.V'.i 



/ 



'75'^(^.^ 



imttmmmm$mmimmm$mmimtmmmimtmtimm 



BOSTON 
UBRARY 













i:^/' 



f^AJ:^ 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 1 WHOLE NUMBER 625 



COOKING IN THE 
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL 

AS TRAINING FOR HOME MAKING 



BY 



IRIS PROUTY O'LEARY 

SPECIAL ASSISTANT FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION 

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION 

STATE OF NEW JERSEY 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

6 CENTS PER COPY 






V^- 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Preface 5 

I. Home making as a vocation for girls 7 

Home making a universal trade 7 

The standard of comfort in the home 8 

Why the vocational school must teach cooking 9 

Difficulties of teaching girls cooking for home making 10 

Tendencies making for increased efficiency in home making 11 

II. Regular school methods and "trade" training in cooking 11 

The teacher 14 

1 III. Markets for the product • 15 

" The school lunch as a market 16 

Tea room, food salesroom, catering as a market 17 

IV. Part-time classes for housekeepers 19 

i Sample unit courses for part-time and evening classes 23 

V. Taking instruction to the pupil 23 

Cooperation with the home 24 

VI. The kitchen and its equipment 26 

Equipment for three-unit kitchens 31 

Lists of material and cost of constructing three-unit kitchens, 

School No. 1 35 

Lists of material and cost of constructing three-unit kitchens, 

School No. 2 35 

Card for cooking receipts 36 



o 

I 



PREFACE. 



This bulletin deals with the teaching of cooking for home-making 
purposes in the day and evening classes of the vocational school. 
Throughout the bulletin "vocational school" wUl be used as a term 
which includes both industrial schools and household-arts schools. 

Vocational schools include all agricultural, industrial, commercial, and household- 
arts schools the controlling purpose of which is to fit for useful occupations, and which 
deal with pupils above 14 years of age and below college grade. ^ 

This discussion recognizes that vocational schools for girls are of 
two types: 

(1) The industrial school, designed to meet the needs of the manual wageworker in 
the trades and industries and in the household. 

(2) The household arts school, which fits for nonwage-eaming occupations connected 
with the household. 

In certain communities there are found schools attempting to give 
both kinds of instruction under one roof and withm one organization. 
In such case, for the purpose of this discussion, each of these groups 
will be regarded as a "unit school" — one an industrial school, the 
other a school of household arts. 

While the industrial school is mainly concerned with training girls 
to become wage earners in industry, it also gives its pupils more or 
less instruction in cooking for home making. In the school of house- 
hold arts, cooking is a most important factor in the training for home 
making. The instruction given these two groups differs not so much 
in method or content as in the amount of time devoted to the subject. 

It is the purpose of this bulletin to discuss the conditions which 
underlie the necessity for instruction in cooking, to define the aim of 
such instruction, and to offer suggestions that may be of service to- 
ward the final solution of the problem. At the same time it is recog- 
nized that the final solution will probably go far beyond any plans 
suggested in these pages. Section VI (p. 26) is intended to be of direct 
assistance to vocational schools contemplating instruction in cooking; 
it gives plans and estimates which have been employed for construc- 
tion, together with a detailed list of equipment and utensUs. 

This paper is not concerned with the traming of professional cooks, 
nor, with training for the wholesale production of food as required in 

> A tentative statement of principles and policies issued by the National Society for the Promotion of 
Industrial Education, February, 1913. 

5 



6 PREFACE. 

restaurants and bakeries. While this is a legitimate purpose of trade 
instruction in cooking, as yet there has been little or no demand upon 
the vocational school by workers wishing skill of this kind. 

This discussion has nothing to do with the teaching of cooking in 
the prevocational or the continuation school, nor is it concerned with 
such instruction in the grades or in the high school, except as the 
method used in these schools is carried over into the vocational school 
and there used as one method of training girls and women for home 
making. Excellent work has been done in these schools by the 
methods commonly employed, and it is not the intention of this paper 
to enter this field either for the purpose of criticism or suggestion. 

For assistance in collecting material for this publication acknowl- 
edgment is gratefully due to the following: Miss Laura Parker, 
head of the cooking department, Boardman Apprentice Shops, New 
Haven, Conn. ; Miss Mary H. Brown, principal of Girls' Trade School, 
Somerville, Mass. ; Mrs. Eva White, State agent for Girls' Industrial 
Schools, Massachusetts Board of Education; and Mr. D. E. Clark, 
John E. Bassett Co., New Haven, Conn. 



COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL 



I. HOME MAKING AS A VOCATION FOR GIRLS. 

The education of the girl who comes to the vocational school is a 
double problem. It must include training in two distinct vocations, 
neither of which can be considered sufficiently permanent to justify 
neglect of the other: The training in either one of these vocations, 
moreover, is not adequate preparation for efficiency in the other. 

As compared with the boy, the future of the girl admits of a 
variety of adjustments: 

(1) She may, like the boy, go into the industry to remain as long 
as she is physically able. 

(2) She may, and most often does, go into industry for a short 
period, variously estimated at from three to seven years, and then 
permanently become a home maker. 

(3) Having left the industry for her own home, circumstances may 
compel her to return to wage earning. 

(4) She may be under the necessity of serving in a double capacity, 
being compelled to support the home which she manages. 

Every evidence goes to show that, while the girl may enter the 
trade, she is, in the majority of cases, at one time or another a home 
maker. In confirmation of this is her personal, if unconfessed, point 
of view that wage earning for her is but a temporary affair, which she 
will leave for a permanent position in her own home. If this home 
is to be a going concern, the woman who manages it must be trained 
for her work as thoroughly as the man who supports it. 

HOME MAKING A UNIVERSAL TRADE. 

In the number of persons employed it outranks all other trades in 
the country. The Government census, however, fails to recognize 
the housekeeper as having a trade, because under normal conditions 
she receives no wage. According to the last census returns there 
are in the United ^States about 31 millions of women over 10 years of 
age. Of these 31 millions 1| millions are working in shops and fac- 
tories and 5^ millions are employed in domestic service. Of the 
remaining 24 millions no accounting is given, since the majority of 
these women are engaged in home making. 

7 



8 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

Many people believe that these figures are exaggerated and that 
no count has been made of the woman who goes back into the indus- 
try or of the home maker who is also a wage earner. Even if this be 
so, these figures conclusively show that after all possible allowances 
have been made the total number of women engaged in wage- 
earning trades is small as compared with those actively engaged in 
home making. The demand for skilled workers in some of these 
trades is limited to the cities, and training for any of them is advisable 
only where the industry is so well developed as to insure a steady 
demand for labor. On the other hand, home making is a trade for 
every woman and the demand is universal. 

THE STANDAED OF COMFORT IN THE HOME. 

Another phase of the economic aspect of this problem of training 
the girl is the standard of comfort in the home as a factor in the 
efficiency of the worker. Some manufacturers, especially those em- 
ploying unskilled or semiskilled labor, are finding that improve- 
ment in the quality of the service which they require must come, in 
part at least, through improvement m home conditions which make 
for the health and comfort of the employee. The standard of com- 
fort, as determining the efficiency of the worker, depends largely on 
the proper selection and preparation of food. To improper rather 
than insufficient food is directly traceable many cases of under- 
nourishment, with resulting sickness, loss of vitality, and consequent 
loss to the industry and to the worker. 

In the average working-class family adequate returns are seldom 
received from the money mvested in food. This is due to several 
distinct causes : 

(1) Buying of foodstuffs which, through dirt, decay, or adultera- 
tion, are unfit for use. 

(2) Use of food which alone or in improper combination does not 
supply nourishment. 

(3) Ignorant or careless cooking, where digestibility, attractive- 
ness, and food value are lessened. 

(4) Careless and hurried serving, which makes no appeal to the 
appetite. 

Another evidence of the necessity for a better standard of living 
in the home is the tendency in many industries, as shown by legisla- 
tion and the activities of various social organizations, to demand for 
entrance to the industry certain health requirements. Manufac- 
turers themselves are beginning to see the wisdom of this, and in 
some industries are demanding a health standard for continuance in 
employment. 



HOME MAKING AS A VOCATION FOR GIRLS, 9 

WHY THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL MUST TEACH COOKING. 

The demands on the housekeeper are changing in their nature and 
are becoming more complex. She is less concerned than formerly 
with the production of raw material, for her work is becoming that 
of an assembler rather than of an elementary producer. Her posi- 
tion is best illustrated by the famihar story of the promised dinner 
which was to take a thousand men to prepare, and which proved 
to be the usual family meal — the work of the thousand men passing 
through the housekeeper's hands for final preparation. She stands 
between the manufacturer and the ultimate consumer. Sugar, flour, 
spice, and butter come to her ready for their final use; she is not 
responsible for production, but for selection from the varieties offered. 
To meet these demands requires training which shall develop not 
only skiU, but judgment and discrimination. 

Not only have the demands on the housekeeper become more com- 
plex, but at the same time the situation in the home itself has so 
changed that it is no longer fitted to train the girl to meet the new 
demands which will be made upon her. As the day has passed when 
a boy is successfully apprenticed to a trade, so a girl is no longer 
apprenticed to her mother. The passing of this home "■ apprentice- 
ship" probably accounts in part for the great number of girls who 
have no knowledge of the simplest domestic work. 

The fact that the girl goes into industry much more than formerly 
lessens the opportunity for home instruction. Where her wage is 
an important item in the family support, she often leaves school as 
soon as the law permits. There is also an increasing number of girls 
who work from choice in order to be free from home restraint and 
to obtam the semi-independence which even a small wage gives them. 

There is a relaxing of home control in America, resulting in the girl 
participatmg less and less in the activities of the home. She is going 
outside not only for employment but also for amusement. This 
makes her interest in home conditions and her understanding of 
them proportionately less. 

There is also an increase in a certain type of home, especially in 
large cities, in which there is no home hfe; in which all the women 
of the household work in industries where the hours are so long and 
demands on the strength so great that there is little time or inchna- 
tion for the care of the home. Women of such households seldom 
know how to do women's work by efficient and labor-saving methods. 
Many of these women are of foreign birth or parentage. In their 
migration they have cast aside the standards under which they were 
bred or else have found these standards wholly unsuited to then- new 
hving conditions. They are further hampered by their ignorance of 
the language and of American foods and markets. They are victims 
of overcrowded housing conditions, which give neither the space nor 
the privacy necessary to well-ordered family hfe. 
66493°— 15 2 



10 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

DIFFICULTIES OF TEACHING GIRLS COOKING FOR HOME MAKING. 

In teaching cooking in the vocational school certain special diffi- 
culties are met at the outset. One of these is the lack of interest on 
the part of most girls. The trade school is dealing with girls from 
14 to 18 at a period when their interest in home making is slight. 
At this age many girls are chiefly interested in dress and a good time, 
while many others have vague dreams of a future that has little to 
do with home making. Few girls are seriously interested in home 
making until later. 

Lack of interest on the part of the girl is frequently accompanied 
by a lack of interest on the part of the mother, and consequent failure 
to encourage traming, which seems to imply that the mother can not 
or does not give efficient instruction in her own trade. If the girl 
cherishes a vague hope that her own home making may be accom- 
plished without physical effort on her part, she often has the unac- 
knowledged support of her mother in looking forward to a marriage 
which will "better her condition." 

Benefit from instruction in housekeeping is to the girl a deferred 
value and to her mind a doubtful one. In learning a trade, such as 
millinery or dressmaking, the economic pressure of needing money 
and of wanting the things which money can buy, together with a 
by-product of skill which she can turn to her own personal use and 
adornment, stimulates her trade interest. In the case of cooking she 
has no such interest to assist the learning process. 

Lack of trade organization and of trade spirit make any kind of 
trade instruction difficult. Very little of woman's work has been 
standardized, and conditions in the home industries are especially 
chaotic. Factory legislation and the "eight-hour" law are needed 
in many kitchens. There is little system or organization in carrying 
on the work, and results, as in cooking, are often characterized as 
good or bad "luck." Housekeeping lacks the spirit and inspiration 
which come from teamwork. The woman who has been in industry 
misses the companionship to which she has been accustomed. She 
also finds herself without a tangible incentive to speed and quality of 
work. 

Again, the ability to cook is something with which every girl is by 
tradition endowed. Theoretically she acquires this ability either by 
inheritance or instinct. No number of poor cooks seems to offset the 
belief that skill in this trade will always come at the caU of necessity. 

In addition to the difficulties already mentioned there exists a weU- 
defined prejudice against "school-taught home making." This is in 
part due to the same ignorance which once looked with suspicion upon 
the "book farmer," but it is also due to the failure of instruction in 
home making to tie up with home conditions and to produce proofs 
of efficiency. 



SCHOOLS AXD TRADE TRAIXIXG I2C COOKING. 11 

TEXDEXCEES 3IAKIXG FOR IXCEEASED EFFICEEXCT IX HOME ilAKIXG. 

On the other hand, a number of new factors that have a direct 
bearing on instruction in cooking are already bringing about a change 
in attitude and a new understanding of the problem : 

(1) The recognition of home making as a trade, which may be 
raised to the dignity of a profession, and therefore requiring adequate 
"trade" training. 

(2) State reimbursement for courses which can give proof of increas- 
ing woman's efficiency in the home; the success of such courses tends 
to place this work in the same class as other State-subsidized trade 
instruction. 

(.3) The organization of cooking classes in vocational schools, where 
these classes are put on the same basis as other departments which 
must maintain trade standards of efficiency and whose product may 
be marketable. 

(4) The increase in the cost of living, which is convincing many 
housekeepers that they must have a more expert knowledge of the 
materials with which they deal. 

(.5^ The growing difficulty of obtaining paid service is also making 
domestic sldll more necessary to the housekeeper for the maintenance 
of the home. 



11. KEGULAR SCHOOL METHODS AXD -TRADE" TRAIX- 

IXG IX COOKIXG. 

"When the vocational school offers instruction in any subject that 
has been taught in the regular schools, it is not only under the neces- 
sity of providing instruction that shall be efficient, but often it must 
also show why this instruction can not be given by the methods 
already familiar and accepted. 

As an aid to an understanding of the question, two kinds of instruc- 
tion must be recognized and the difference between them clearly 
understood: 

(1) Instruction whose aim is to develop appreciation. 

(2) Instruction whose aim is "'trade'' training. 

Instruction whose aim is appreciation is given as part of a general 
education and not primarily to develop productive capacity. In 
cooking such instruction is based on the theory that the desired 
knowledge can be best given by teaching underlying principles 
through a study of typical processes and materials. This training is 
commonly given on the basis of laboratory exercises, which are essen- 
tially imitative and illustrative; it does not employ the methods or 
assume the ''shop" conditions of commercial practice. The members 
of the group to be served are selected by the abihty to meet certain 
educational requirements — namely, to pass the entrance requirements 
of their grade or class. 



12 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

The aim of "trade" training in cooking is to teach the subject in 
such a way as to give actual abiUty to do this work under home con- 
ditions in what might be called a professional manner ; to give manipu- 
lative skill and knowledge of materials and processes as they have to 
do with the making of a "commercial" product. This training should 
be given under the conditions of the domestic industries and by such 
methods as shall fit the pupil for the demands that will be made upon 
her by actual household work. The group to be served should be 
composed of those who desire this kind of instruction and are able to 
meet the trade-school requirements as to age and elementary 
schooling. 

When the vocational school is confronted with the problem of 
instruction in cooking, it is natural that it should turn to methods 
that are already established and familiar. For this reason it seems 
necessary at this point to go into the detail of the instruction, as to 
its fitness for vocational purposes. The following discussion, there- 
fore, is in no sense an attack upon cooking as taught in the pubhc 
schools, but merely a development of the special purpose of this 
paper as outlined in the preface.^ 

The accepted method of teaching cooking in the regular day school 
has usually been either by the "group method," where several pupils 
unite in the preparation of one dish, or by the "individual receipt," 
where each pupil has the complete experience, but in such small 
quantities as to destroy its vaiue for practical purposes. In one the 
girl's experience is fractional, with no direct responsibility for results, 
while the other is a demonstration method adapted to laboratory 
conditions, but with httle or no domestic value or vocational content. 
These methods owe their existence partly to the fact that under the 
given conditions disposal of the product is not a serious problem nor 
the expens'e of maintenance prohibitive. 

The common method makes the unit of instruction soup, muffins, 
or salad, and very seldom reaches the normal consideration of the 
meal as a whole. In the same way the individual responsibility for 
napkins, silver, and dishes is given the girl, instead of the unit of the 
well-set table. This kind of specialization carried far enough might 
be applicable to a trade which had reached the specialized stage of 
factory development, but it is not applicable to a trade that is still 
carried on in the home. 

Under favorable conditions a grade pupil devotes to cooking 2 
hours a week, or a total of 80 hours a year. With this limited time 
it is necessary to confine instruction to representative processes, and 
only those processes that can be carried out in the lesson period. 
This time allotment may be sufficient for the subject when taught 
from the standpoint of appreciation; and for a study which is only 

I p. 5. 



SCHOOLS AND TRADE TEAINING IN COOKING. 13 

one of five or six in a general education it is all that can reasonably 
be expected within the time limits of a school course. When cooking 
is to be practical training, however, the time must approximate that 
which the woman will spend in this work in her own home. It must 
be sufficient to give professional skill and a comprehensive knowledge 
of materials and processes. 

Inefficiency of the work, whether due to improper equipment, in- 
correct methods or poorly qualified teachers, is usually attributed to 
the size of the class. This is a legitimate excuse, since these classes 
usually number from 25 to 30 pupils. This prohibits either individual 
or group instruction and necessitates mechanical methods of handlmg 
the classes — the pupils file mto the classroom, each girl going to an 
assigned place and doing designated work according to a routine in 
which she is more or less drilled. A certain "action under direc- 
tion" is made to take the place of individual initiative and respon- 
sibility. A girl can not be allowed to learn from her own experience 
if this will involve 25 others in the same mistake. 

"Trade" classes should not be so large as to preclude individual 
instruction or to compel a girl to work imder artificial conditions. A 
housekeeper handles her work in a certain routine, but it is an elastic 
routine imposed by the conditions of the job. 

Among the teaching force in the regular schools may be found many 
women whose training is entirely academic and whose only contact 
with their subject is from a teaching standpomt. Their preparation 
for the work consists mainly of training received in domestic-science 
classes of schools and colleges. 

When this work is approached from the "trade" rather than the 
cultural side, the necessity of "trade" experience for the instructor 
is obvious. She must be familiar with the conditions for which she 
is training the pupil and must possess the expert knowledge and skill 
that come only from actual experience. 

The method of furnishing supplies is another instance of where the 
attempt to run this work on accepted school lines is detrimental to 
its efficiency as trade training. In the regular school system all sup- 
plies must usually be estimated, standardized, and requisitioned weeks 
in advance. This makes it necessary for the work to follow a fixed 
schedule, and no attempt can be made to serve a need calling for a 
variation in supplies. For example, the presence of a number of 
Jewish pupils might make it desirable to teach Kosher cooking, which 
could not be done with standard supplies. Again, it is impossible to 
take advantage of unusual circumstances, such as the imexpected 
cheapness of certain fruit for canning and preservmg, or the demand 
for "hot- weather dishes," caused by an unlooked-for rise in tem- 
perature. This method of furnishing suppfies will not admit of 
buying advantageously for the varying demands of a commercial 



14 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

market. What is more important, under these conditions pupils can 
do none of the actual buying; they can have no direct contact with 
market conditions and no responsibility as to quantity and quality 
purchased. Furthermore, trade training can not be given with the 
extremely limited amount of material usually furnished for grade 
work. If individual work is to be done with these amounts, it is 
necessary to cook in extremely small quantities and sometimes to 
divide the preparation of even these limited portions between two 
pupils. These portions are too small for profitable experience. As 
an alternative to this the class is sometimes divided into workers and 
observers. Comment on this situation is unnecessary. 

The most common method of providing for cooking in the regular 
school is by what is called the ' ' individual equipment." The ' ' horse- 
shoe," hollow square, and detached tables are all familiar arrange- 
ments of this method, where each pupil has her own table space, with 
closet and drawer room for her individual utensils. These utensils 
are usually of a size especially adapted to the preparation of small 
quantities. Larger utensils are provided for use among several pupils, 
and there is more or less general equipment for class use. For baking, 
a gas or coal range sometimes supplements the individual gas burners. 
The result is an arrangement more like a school laboratory than a 
home kitchen. Such an equipment is adapted to conventional teach- 
ing conditions rather than to working conditions in the home, and 
can not possibly suffice for teaching cooking in the vocational school. 

THE TEACHER. 

The difference in. the aim and purpose of these two kiads of training 
demands a different type of teacher. As has been previously stated, 
neither the training nor the experience of the usual teacher of do- 
mestic science has been such as to fit her for " trade" teaching. The 
teacher of cooking for home-making purposes in the vocational school 
should have for entrance into the work the followuig qualifications: 

(1) Trade qualifications. — Experience in home making, such as 
could be obtained from actual housekeeping. Commercial experience 
in the preparation or marketing of food, such as would be obtained in 
a food salesroom, tea, or lunch room. 

(2) Technical qualifications, such as knowledge of food composi- 
tion and values, food manufacture and adulteration, chemistry of 
foods, physiology of digestion, etc., equivalent to that given in the 
usual normal course in domestic science. 

(3) Academic qualifications. — Graduation from high school or its 
equivalent. 

(4) Teaching qualifications. — Knowledge of aim, organization, 
methods, and problems of the vocational school and ability to teach 
the subject so as to meet its requirements. This training is not at 
present commonly given in normal-school courses. 



MARKETS FOR THE PRODUCT. 15 

(5) Personal qualifications. — The usual requirements of neatness 
and of attractive personality, liking for young people, and enthusiasm 
for the subject. 

At present few schools are giving adequate preparation for all these 
requirements, and it is doubtful if certain qualifications can ever be 
obtained in the school alone. For some time, at least, the vocational 
school will be under the necessity of giving supplementary training 
to teachers after they have been admitted to service. Technical 
knowledge can already be had in schools better fitted for this purpose 
than the vocational school. The "trade" experience for the most 
part must be obtained in the "industry," and should be a pre- 
requisite for service. Some provision must be made within the voca- 
tional school itself for further training in teaching after the teacher 
has entered the service and for contact with the home conditions of 
the pupil. 

III. MARKETS FOR THE PRODUCT. 

The product of the home kitchen is not commonly sold, but it must 
always be "marketable" in the sense that it must meet the demand 
of the consumer, both as to quality and cost. This demand is not 
standard, but varies according to the requirements and circum- 
stances of individual homes. 

The girl must have the knowledge and skill which come from the 
actual handling of material. If she can be put up agamst the neces- 
sity of making her product meet the test of a commercial market, she 
becomes at once responsible for quality, cost, and promptness of 
delivery. This market will also make it possible to give her experi- 
ence in handling food in the variety and quantity required in the 
average home. The element of reality, moreover, will stimulate the 
interest of the pupil and give point to the teaching; for under these 
conditions the instruction, as well as the product, must meet the 
commercial test of efficiency. 

The market selected has much to do with the success or failure of 
the instruction. The attempt to supply markets which do not give 
proper training is a common cause of inefficiency. This may be 
because the kind of food demanded is not that which is needed by 
housekeepers. For instance, ability to make the small decorated 
cakes which find such a ready sale in tea shops might be an interest- 
ing accomplishment for a housewife, but great skill in this is hardly 
essential to the preparation of family meals. It may also be found 
that supplying the market selected involves too much repetition and 
does not give the necessary variety. For example, a school lunch- 
room has a constant demand for sandwiches and cocoa, which are 
not important articles of home consumption. Again, a market may 



16 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

be too limited to give pupils proper working habits — the housewife 
works under a certain pressure which demands speed and a division 
of attention. Too small an output will not make a sufficient demand 
on tha pupil. 

Ther? are in every case difficulties to be met when the vocational 
school attempts to deliver a commercial product. These are more or 
less peculiar to the local situation and the individual school. In 
addition to these, the cooking department has handicaps of its own 
which are peculiar to the "trade." 

(1) In case of error or failure the chance of recovery is small. A 
misplaced ingredient can not be removed, and it is impossible to take 
apart the product for another trial. 

(2) Strict time conditions govern certain markets; products for 
these markets must be ready at a stated time with little if any leeway. 

(3) All the products are of a perishable nature. 

(4) In certain articles every minute between production and con- 
sumption lessens marketability. 

(5) In almost no other market is the individual peculiarity of the 
customer such a controlling factor. 

Which method of marketing the product is best adapted to the 
individual school can only be decided after a careful study of local 
conditions and consideration of such points as th3 following: 

(1) Will the product required be such that from its preparation 
the pupils can get the kind and variety of training needed ? 

(2) Will the amount of product required be in proportion to the 
number and ability of the pupils ? 

(3) Will the time of delivery be such that the school schedule can 
be adjusted to meet it? 

(4) Will the undertaking be a successful commercial transaction 
and escape charity, graft, and bankruptcy ? 

THE SCHOOL LUNCH AS A MARKET. 

One of the most common markets is the school lunch. This is 
usually a proposition to serve moderate-priced food at, or near, cost. 
Aside from all question of its desirability as a market, one point to 
be considered is that it puts hot and nourishing food within reach of 
the pupils at a price which they can afford to pay. 

As a market for a commercial product it has certain disadvantages. 
There is present the usual danger of exploiting the pupil, because the 
absolute necessity of having the product in condition to serve at a 
fixed time may too easily outweigh all other considerations. . To sup- 
ply food in such quantities as a lunchroom demands will give excellent 
training in "wholesale cooking," but it requires careful handling to 
meet this demand and still keep the family meal as the basis of 
instruction. Again there is the daily demand for certain staples that 



MARKETS FOR THE PRODUCT. 17 

are not of much importance to the housekeeper. To these three 
objections may be added a fourth — unless some special arrangements 
can be made, the school lunch as a market offers no opportunity for 
teaching table sotting or service. 

In spite of these difficulties, however, the school lunch can be made 
a desirable method of disposing of the product if the food and not the 
girl is adjusted to the market. The first consideration must be that the 
pupils who prepare the lunch are given the kind and variety of cook- 
ing needed in a home. They must not be held to the drudgery neces- 
sary to the preparation of food in large quantities. The abihty to 
make 16 loaves of cake at once is of httle value to the ordinary house- 
keeper. When this quantity is needed, 8 girls can be given this rule 
to double, or 16 girls can each make one loaf. Thirty pounds of fowl 
can be divided among several classes, every girl having the responsi- 
bihty of dressing and cooking a chicken. The final destination of 
ham, corn beef, and fowl may be a sandwich by way of the meat 
copper, but out of this meat the pupils have had working experience 
with home quantities. 

Distribution of work can be made after consulting the record of 
each class, so that every girl has a variety of experience, and only 
repetition will be necessary to gain skill and confidence. Heavy 
work that has to be repeated every day, such as shcing bread, mak- 
ing cocoa, and washing dishes, can be done by hired help and figured 
as part of the cost of the lunch to be covered by the selling price. 

This plan has proved feasible in that it has given pupils cooking 
experience in quantity and kind that would have been impossible 
without a market for the product. It has furnished a market which 
is more entirely within the control of the school than any other that 
has been tried. This control of the market is an important factor, 
moreover, for it lessens the hkelihood of exploiting the girl for the 
sake of a commercial product. It also increases the possibilities of 
shaping the demand to fit the product of which disposal must be 
made.^ 

TEA ROOM, FOOD SALESROOM, CATERING AS A AIARKET. 

Another commercial market for the product of the cooking classes 
may be secured by opening a pubhc lunch or tea room. When pupils 
are being trained for commercial cooking, this affords a better oppor- 
tunity for business experience than does the school lunch; but for the 
pupil who wishes cooking only as a part of her training in home mak- 
ing the lunch room and the tea room are open to certain objections. 
One of these objections is the amount of work involved that is with- 



i This plan is in successful operation in the Newton Technical High School, Newton, Mass., the New 
Bedford Industrial School, New Bedford, Mass., and the Boardman Apprentice Shops, New Haven, Conn., 
and other places. 

66493°— 15 3 



18 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

out direct bearing on home making. Another is that when catering 
to the pubhc the pressure of producing both quantity and quahty is 
such that all considerations of training are frequently sacrificed to 
the commercial product. 

There are, however, distinct advantages in this method of dis- 
posal. The general trade has more money to spend than the pupil 
who patronizes the school lunch. This trade buys a meal rather than 
a supplement to food brought from home. The demand for substan- 
tial dishes is greater, with not so much call for sandwiches and 
desserts. This makes it possible to keep a better balance in the 
cooking, and to give the pupils more variety in meat, fish, soup, and 
vegetables — especially vegetables, for which there is a compara- 
tively small sale in the school lunch room. There is an opportunity 
for table setting and service which is lacking where the trade con- 
sists of 3 and 5 cent orders served in large numbers. 

When the school is not favorably located to secure the kind of 
trade desired, it will be necessary to rent space in the business sec- 
tion of the city, often at a distance from the school, in order to carry 
on this business. A departure of this kind introduces additional 
problems into the school management. 

(1) Can the school handle sufficient trade to meet the rent and 
other expenses incidental to an undertaking of this kind ? 

(2) Can a sufficient number of teachers be had to care for a "scat- 
tered school?" 

(3) Have any of the school faculty sufficient business abifity to 
manage the proposed undertaking? 

(4) How can work which is drudgery and not a legitimate part of 
the pupil's training be handled ? 

(5) What arrangements can be made for the time schedide, and, 
if necessary, how will transportation of the pupils between the 
school and the lunch room be provided? 

(6) Service at the lunch room will call for long hours. What 
assignments can be made in justice to the pupils? 

(7) Shall all pupils put in some time at the lunch room daily, or 
shall the work be done by pupils serving longer hours and a week at 
a time ? 

(8) Will it be possible to make a financial success of a lunch which 
is only open for business when the school is in session, or will it be 
necessary to make some arrangement for its operation on Saturdays 
and during vacation ? 

(9) If so, how can it be done ? 

In a general discussion of this kind no attempt can be made to 
answer these questions. They are offered to further emphasize what 
has already been stated — that no decision shoidd be made as to 
method of marketing the product until after a careful consideration 



PART-TIME CLASSES FOE. HOUSEKEEPERS. 19 

of the local situation. The final decision in eveiy case must be made 
on the basis of the conditions governing the individual school. 

Another method of disposal which is often advocated is cooking 
for the food salesroom. The experience to be had from this market 
is limited, since it involves the repeated preparation of a few articles 
of food. The demand is chiefly for bread, cake, and pies. 

Among the patrons of a food salesroom it is often possible to work 
up a trade in the jellies, pickles, and preserves which it is desirable 
that the pupils be taught to make. These articles form a product 
which it is not always easy to market at a profit in the school lunch. 
This is, however, a minor consideration. If the school produces a 
standard article put up in attractive shape, there is usually no difla- 
culty in disposing of all that can be made through a local grocer. 

When the school has under its control facilities for serving a number 
of people, and when these are in an accessible location, there will be 
numerous opportunities for catering for school organizations and 
local gatherings. This gives the pupils an opportunity to prepare 
food different from that which constitutes the bulk of their experience. 
It brings them in touch with the social Hfe of the community and 
gives them excellent discipHne in teamwork. 



IV. PART-TIME CLASSES FOE HOUSEKEEPERS. 

The teaching of cooking in the vocational school is not only the 
problem of training the 14 to 16 year old girl; it is also the problem 
of teaching the adult housekeeper. In every community there are 
women engaged in home making who have found that in certain ways 
they are not equal to the task they have undertaken. Their ineflB.- 
ciency is due to a lack of specific knowledge or skill. In the case of 
cooking, it may be that a housekeeper has found that there are cer- 
tain things which her family want that she can not make weU, such 
as bread, pie, or jelly; or perhaps she is not able to feed the family 
satisfactorily with the money at her disposal. Just as economic 
necessity brings the wage earner to the trade school to increase her 
earning capacity, so economic necessity may also bring the house- 
keeper to the school to direct her spending capacity. 

Besides the young housekeeper who may find herself unable to 
meet the demands of her particular domestic situation, there is also 
the more mature housekeeper, whom the vocational school can serve. 
She, too, may not be able to meet certain demands of her household, 
or it may be that she needs help in adapting herself to changing con- 
ditions. Increase in the cost of the food material which she has been 
accustomed to handle has put it out of her reach. For instance, she 
can no longer afford to buy the only cuts of meat which she knows 
how to cook; or she hears of new methods and labor-saving devices 
of which she is ignorant, such as casseroles and the fireless cooker. 



20 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

Both cases concern women who have had experience in the work 
for which they need instruction and are able to define their needs, 
A ' 'general course in cooking/' which may be adapted to the ignorance 
of the beginner, takes no account of the skill and knowledge these 
mature workers have gained by actual experience, and may waste 
their time on work in which they are already proficient. The general 
course also assumes that these women all have the same need of 
instruction, while actually there are only small groups with a common 
need. Housekeepers of the kind described are ready to give their 
time and attend classes in cooking, if they have any assurance of 
learning the particular thing or things they wish to know. To secure 
the attendance of a housekeeper of this type, the vocational school 
must organize its work in a large variety of short units to meet her 
needs, arrange the sessions of the classes to meet her convenience, 
secure a teacher in whom she %vill have confidence, and then bring 
these classes to the attention of the woman who is very much confined 
within her own home. The short-unit course is the kind of instruction 
needed for this work. Such a list of unit courses for housekeepers as 
will be found on page 23 is only suggestive; these may be repeated, 
duplicated, and extended according to the demands of the individual 
situation. 

Attendance can be secured for both day and evening classes in 
cooking. The housekeeper differs from the wage earner in that to a 
certain extent she controls her own time; her work can be adjusted to 
admit of more or less absence. This makes afternoon classes for the 
housekeeper not only possible, but in many cases most desirable. In 
some instances she finds it more convenient to attend evening classes. 
This is especially true of the housekeeper who is also a wage earner. 

A successful teacher of these classes must have a personality which 
inspires respect and confidence in these women; she must be a person 
to whom they will go individually for advice. There is not as 
great a necessity here for commercial experience as for a \vide domestic 
experience in all kinds of home cooking. For certain special work, 
such as Italian or Kosher cooldng, a teacher may be needed who 
knows the language or is of the same nationality as her pupils. 

Bringing these classes to the attention of the women who will be 
benefitted by them is a question of judicious advertising. Posters 
are of little value for this purpose, as they do not go into the home. 
The newspaper will reach a certain type of pupil, but in other homes 
it is never read by the women of the family. One of the most effective 
methods is the circular or circular letter sent through the mail. Mail- 
ing lists can be made up from the membership rolls of organizations 
patronized by the women the school wishes to enroll. Many labor 
unions have declared themselves in favor of home-making instruction 
for women, and in some instances have shown interest in placing this 



PART-TIME CLASSES FOE HOUSEKEEPEBS. 



21 



information in the hands of waves and daughters of their members. 
These circulars must be a very clear and simple statement of facts. 
At the risk of repetition, they should answer aU possible questions in 
regard to the classes. The circulars below have been used for this 
purpose and are inserted to show what information it has been found 
necessary to give. 

COOKING AND SEWING CLASSES FOR WOMEN OF 



When: 

Where : 
For whom : 

Cost: 
Session : 

Product: 



Teachers : 
Registration : 



(A) At the Girls' Department of the Trade School. 

If there is sufficient demand, it is planned to open these classes 
January 5. 

At the Girls' Department of the Trade School, 79 Broadway. 

These classes are opened to any woman or girl over 16 years old who 
lives in the city of 

These classes are free. 

Each class meets once a week from 3 until 5 o'clock. The number of 
lessons is given after each subject. 

For the dressmaking classes you bring your own material and have what 
you make. The school furnishes the material for the cooking classes, 
but you can have what you make by paying what it costs. The 
classes in expert cleaning and fine laundry work will give you a 
chance to cleanse your own clothes. 

These classes will all be under the charge of women who are experts in 
the work they teach. 

To register, fill out the attached blank and mail to the Trade School, 79 
Broadway. Additional blanks may be obtained at this office. A 
woman may register for any one of these courses or for more than one 
if she wishes. Admission to all these classes is limited to 15 to 20 
pupils; the preference will be given to those who register first; so 
Register at once. You will be notified by mail if yoiur application can 
be accepted and the date on which the first meeting of the class will 
be held. No class will be opened unless there are at least 15 applica- 
tions for instruction in that subject. 



COOKING FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 



Lessons. 

1. Yeast bread, biscuits, and rolls. . 6 

2. Baking-powder bisciuts and 

breakfast cakes.. 6 

3. Pastry 6 

4. Cake 8 

5. Desserts 10 



Lessons. 
-- 5 



6. Breakfasts 

7. "Dinner-pail" lunches 8 

8. School-children's lunches 8 

9. Sunday-night suppers 6 

10. Simple family meals 8 

11. Cooking for infants and invalids. 8 



SEWING FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 



Lessons. 

Shirt waists 8 

Fancy waists 12 

Skirts 12 

UnUned dresses 16 

Underwear 10 

Baby clothes 12 

Children's clothes 16 

19. Household sewing (bed linen, 

table linen, etc.) 8 



12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 



20. 
21. 



Lessons 

Mending and repairing 8 

Use of sewing-machine attach- 
ments 6 

Can you use the tucker, ruffler, 
hemmer, and binder which be- 
long to your sewing machine? 

White embroidery 10 

Embroidery for gowns 10 



22 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

CLEANING AND FINE LAUNDRY WORK FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 



Lessons. 

24. Washing blankets and flannels. . 4 

25. Laundering shirt waists 4 

26. Fine starching and ironing 6 



Lessons. 

27. Removing stains 4 

28. Cleaning 6 

29. Cleaning solutions 4 



APPLICATION BLANK. 

Date. 

Name , Address , Occupation 

Courses desired (give both name and number) 



(B) At the Housekeeping Center, 96^ View Street. 



DO YOU WANT TO KNOW 
HOW TO COOK 

MEAT? 

VEGETABLES ? 

SOUP? 

BREAD ? 

CAKE? 
BREAKFAST ? 

DINNER ? 

SUPPER ? 



HOW TO SEW 

SHIRT WAISTS? 

DRESSES ? 

SKIRTS ? 

UNDERWEAR ? 

children's CLOTHING? 
HOUSEHOLD ? 

SEWING? 

MENDING ? 



THESE CLASSES ARE FREE. 
THEY ARE FOR YOU. 



If you wish to belong, come and put your name in on Thursday or 
Friday, 26th to 27th, 3 to 4.30 p. m. 



There is another class of women whom the vocational school can 
serve — the "prospective housekeepers." This class is made up of 
two groups — one, house daughters who have finished their regular 
school training, and the other and larger group, young women who 
are in various kinds of employment during the day. All these 
young women have an immediate prospect of homes of their own, 
and to them benefit from cooking instruction is no longer a deferred 
value. While the girls in this group are more mature than the 
regular vocational school pupils, their basis of experience is limited 
as compared with the housekeeper and their need of instruction is 



TAKING INSTRUCTION TO THE PUPIL. 



23 



general rather than specific. The short-unit course is also the best 
method of teaching these girls^ but the units should be organized 
with more regard to the preparation of meals than of single articles 
of food. These courses should be given in day and evening classes 
according to the demands of the registration. This registration may 
be secured by the mailing of circulars and also by posters placed 
in stores, factories, and offices where women are employed. 

SAMPLE UNIT COURSES FOR PART-TIME AND EVENING CLASSES.^ 

The following are sample unit courses which may be used for 
part-time instruction m home making for housekeepers. These 
courses are only suggestive, and this is in no sense a complete Ust 
of work which might be given in this subject. The courses them- 
selves and the number of lessons in each should be arranged to meet 
the needs of the pupils. 



Lessons. 

1. Meat 8 

2. Soups and stews 10 

3. Left overs 8 

4. Meat substitutes 16 

5. Fish 6 

6. Clams and oysters 5 

7. Vegetables 8 

8. Bread and rolls 6 

9. Muffins and quick bread 5 

10. Cake 8 

11. Cookies 6 

12. Cold desserts 6 

13. Hot def-serts 6 

14. Frozen desserts 5 

15. Pastry 6 

16. Salads 8 

17. Sandwiches 4 



Lessons. 

18. Eggs 4 

19. Canning and preserving 12 

20. " Dinner pails " 6 

21. School children's lunches 6 

22. Sunday-night suppers 8 

23. Breakfasts 5 

24. Fireless cooker and paper-bag 

cooking 6 

25. Kosher cooking 10 

26. Italian cooking 10 

27. Infant feeding 5 

28. Meals for children fiom 2 to 6 

years old 5 

29. Cooking for invaUda and special 

diets 8 

30. Marketing 6 

31. Table setting and serving 4 



V. TAKING INSTRUCTION TO THE PUPIL. 

In the attempt to place instruction in cooking within the reach 
of aU women, not only must local needs be studied and careful and 
systematic measures be taken to supply them, but in many cases 
means must be devised to take this instruction to the consumer. 

In a city of any size distances are often prohibitive. A working 
woman has neither time nor strength to reach a distant class; 
neither can she always afford car fare. Instruction in cooking for 
this woman must be easily accessible. A number of smaU centers, 

1 Many of these short-unit courses are in operation in theeveningschoolsof Rochester, N.Y., Albany, 
N. Y., Worcester, Mass., Lawrence, Mass., and many other places. An extended list of such places may 
be found in Bulletin No. 17 of the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education. 



24 



COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 



located where registration is heavy, will serve better than one large 
central plant. It has been found possible not only to open classes 
where they can be conveniently reached, but also to take instruction 
into places of employment and into the home itseK. Special rooms 
for this purpose can often be fitted up at small cost in the base- 
ments of regular school buildings, and sometimes rooms well adapted 
to such work can be rented in convenient locations. 

In one instance instruction was taken to the place of employment 
by using the '^ cookhouse" which a cotton miU had built for the pur- 
pose of preparing employees' dinners. The use of this building 
was secured for one night a week by the local vocational school. 
Posters were placed in the miU inviting the women employees to 
meet here and cook their own supper with the help of a teacher from 
the school. Two sample menus, with their cost, were given on this 
poster. Registration was taken through the foreman, and more 
women applied than it was possible to accommodate. At the close 
of the mill day as many women as could get into the " cookhouse " 
came directly from their work and cooked supper under the direc- 
tion of the teacher. The mill furnished the kitchen and equipment, 
the school supplied the teacher, and the pupils paid the cost of 
material, which was never' over 12 cents a person. This method 
of taking instruction to the pupil proved very useful. There was 
no falling off in interest and attendance, and the women asked to 
have the classes continued permanently. Two sample menus are 
given to show the kind of cooking in which these women were 
interested. 



Supper No. 1. 

Cheese pudding. Baked onions. Cold 
slaw. Peanut cookies. Coffee. 

Chees'e pudding $0.48 



Baked onions. 

Cold slaw 

Cookies 

Coffee 

Fuel 



10 
15 
,40 
,28 
,10 



Total cost 1. 51 

For "family "of 14— 
Individual cost 11 



Supper No. 2. 

Codfish in tomato sauce. Cereal muf- 
fins. Dried apricot shortcake. Cocoa. 

Codfish in tomato sauce |0. 30 

Muffins -•- 24 

Shortcake 20 

Cocoa 28 

Fuel 08 



Total cost 

For "family" of 14- 
Individual cost. . 



1.10 



08 



COOPERATION WITH THE HOME. 



It is believed by some that the school will not reach an efficient 
method of teaching cooking until the instruction is given under actual 
domestic conditions in the home itself. Instruction in the school- 
room, it is maintained, can at best be made only an imitation of 
home conditions and, therefore, can never be thoroughly efficient. 



TAKING INSTRUCTION TO THE PUPIL. 25 

In some instances, at least, instruction in cooking has been actually 
taken by the school into the home of the pupil. In one particular 
case 15 young women who wished to form a class volunteered the use 
of their home kitchens.^ They had 10 lessons in the preparation of 
breakfasts. The class met at the homes of the members, and both 
cooked and served breakfasts planned for families in moderate cir- 
cumstances. The pupils not only had the experience of cooking 
and serving these breakfasts, but of actually doing the work under 
the conditions of 10 different kitchens. The success of this particular 
class was largely due to the ability of the teacher in securing the 
cooperation of the pupils and a spirit of independent work. 

While this was an evening class composed of girls employed during 
the day, the experiment is of interest and may be regarded as pro- 
phetic of home-making instruction in the future. At the present 
time no instance is known of the continuous and systematic giving 
of instruction in the home of the day-school pupil. As a move in 
this direction some schools have tried the experiment of giving credit 
to the pupil for work done in the home.^ 

In a few cases the school has gone a step farther in an attempt to 
utilize the home as a place of practice for the pupU. Different house- 
hold tasks are gone over in detail as preliminary preparation, and 
practice is given in certain processes, such as making pie crust or 
planning a meal. The girl then does this work in her own home as a 
part of the family housekeeping, and brings to the school a written 
report signed by her parent to denote whether the service rendered 
has met the family requirements. 

For a satisfactory working out of this scheme, it wiU be desirable 
for the school to be in very close touch with the families and home 
conditions of the pupils. The parent's signature to the written 
report is only one means of securing this cooperation, which must 
come largely through the teacher herself. For this purpose she will 
need to have tune assigned for more or less direct supervision of the 
girl's home work. This supervision will generally take the form of 
friendly calls. Since these calls are to be made in that most inacces- 
sible of places — another woman's kitchen — the success of this method 
will depend on the personality of the teacher and the tact and dis- 
cretion which she can use in deahng with the girls' mothers. 

The card reproduced below has been used to secure the interest and 
cooperation of the girl's mother. Credit is given for work done at 
home when that space is filled out and properly signed. In this way 
the mother may know what the girl is being taught in the school 
and what she may be expected to know when called upon to help in 

1 Wakefield Evening Industrial School, Wakefield, Mass. 

2 The following, among others: Boardman Apprentice Shops, New Haven, Conn.; Belmont, N. Y.; 
SinclaiiviUe, N. Y.; LowviUe, N. Y.; and GreigsviUe, N. Y. 



26 COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 

the home. The teacher is also mformed as to how much opportunity 
the gui has to put in practice what she is taught in the school. 



COOKING RECORD. 

Pupil Week ending 

School Home. 



Quality of work Quality of work 

Attitude toward work Attitude toward work. 

Teacher's signature Parent's signature . . . . 



There would seem to be certain objections to this practice. When 
a girl works at home she is very much under the influence of her 
mother's methods and example, and in some cases this is most unde- 
sirable. If the great part of her actual experience is to be in her own 
home, the experience will be Hmited to supplying the needs of a few 
people, and to the use of such utensils as the home affords. The 
equipment of the average kitchen is also a handicap. It is in most 
cases a hit-or-miss collection of utensils with which the housekeeper 
is already familiar, rather than the result of an inteUigent search for 
those which wiU lighten labor. A woman will refuse a time-and- 
labor-saving device for no other reason than that it was not in her 
mother's kitchen. The school is prepared to give the girl a greater 
variety of experience with utensils and material than the average 
home can afford. When working in the school the girl learns from 
the experience of the other girls. The excited discussions carried on 
in trade-school kitchens are sufficient evidence that the pupils are 
quick to observe, and that they form their own opinions. 



VI. THE KITCHEN AND ITS EQUIPMENT. 

Much of the inefficiency of trade instruction in cooking is due to 
inadequate or unsuitable equipment. In some schools the laboratory 
equipment previously discussed has been adopted outright or with 
modifications. In other schools the cooking department has as its 
basis the home kitchen, but doubled or tripled in size and equipment 



THE KITCHEN AND ITS EQUIPMENT. 2*7 

until it will accommodate 15 to 20 girls. In a few instances an insti- 
tutional equipment has been installed with all the "machinery" for 
cooking in large quantities.* Instruction given under any of these 
circumstances leaves much to be desired in efficiency and direct rela- 
tion to the job for which it is supposed to train. 

An important factor in training the girl "on the job/' as has been 
previously stated, is to give her this training under conditions which 
are real; that is, under conditions which at least approximate those of 
the actual "job." It is these conditions which should determine the 
arrangement and equipment of the kitchen in the vocational school. 
In this connection it is a serious mistake to ignore a fundamental 
difference between home making and such other trades as millinery and 
power-machine operating, for instance. As compared with the condi- 
tions of employment in these industries, home making is carried on 
in comparative sohtude. In other workrooms of the vocational school 
the conditions are normal; that is, they are essentially those of the 
industry where a number of women work close together in a certain 
partnership of interest. The mistaken attempt to carry this organi- 
zation over into the cooking department results in a variety of arrange- 
ments, whereby a single kitchen is made to accommodate 15 to 20 
girls. Under no circumstances can a kitchen equipped even for 15 
girls be made a reproduction of home conditions. 

The "job" for which the girl is to be trained is the home; therefore 
the school must approximate the " trade" conditions under which this 
work is commonly done. The kitchen, for example, should be about 
the same type as that found in the average home, and the equipment 
and utensils such as could be afforded by the housekeeper in ordinary 
circumstances. Can this be done under school conditions? How 
will it be possible to handle classes of sufficient size to prevent the 
cost of instruction from being prohibitive ? 

In the "unit" kitchen has been found a method which approaches 
the requirements of giving actual training under home conditions. By 
this method the home kitchen is made the unit of construction, the 
units being repeated as often as the number of pupils demands. These 
kitchens are small rooms like the ordinary tenement kitchen, and are 
furnished with sink, gas stove, and the necessary utensils. The 
equipment should be simple, planned to put the girl on working 
terms with the kitchen at home. The rooms are built with only 
three walls, the fourth side being open on the haU. By this arrange- 
ment one instructor can supervise the work in a number of kitchens. 
A class of 15 can be taken care of, each kitchen accommodating 5 
girls, as in the New Bedford Industrial School, New Bedford, Mass., 
or in the Boardman Apprentice Shops, New llaven. Conn. 



28 



COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 



i=i b=< 



1 



Fig. 1.— School No. 1. Space Utilized for Unit Kitchens. 



■X-Q 



rn Q 



F 



HlTCH£JI/ 



ID 



Do\NN 



I 

Or f ICE 



pAftrfir 



C=3 [=0: 



^ HiTC//e/if 






D 



n 



D 



D^ 



Fig. 2.— School No. 1. Floor Plans of Unit Kitchens. 



THE KITCHEN AND ITS EQUIPMENT. 29 

This plan does not require a specially constructed building. Under 
present conditions the trade school is usually housed in any quarters 
it can get, from a factory to a dwelling house. Any plan, therefore, 
which is not adaptable to the most unpromising conditions can not 
be a real help in the solution of this problem. If a plan calls for ex- 
tensive rebuilding, its usefulness is extremely limited. 

Figures 1 to 4 show floor plans of two buildings where unit kitch- 
ens have been installed. The kitchens shown in figure 2 and plate 1 
are on the third floor of a carriage storehouse, which is the building 
devoted to the girls' vocational school. Since this building was not 
regarded as a permanent location for the school, the work was done 
in the cheapest possible fashion. Light studding was put up, and 
the interior finish was wall board. All work except painting and 
plumbing was done by the boys' department of the school. This 
construction was cheap, attractive, and satisfactory. Figure 3 
shows the floor space in a brick school building before it was devoted 
to trade-school purposes, and figure 4 shows how it was rearranged 
for unit kitchens. A more permanent and expensive construction 
was employed here with no particular gain in appearance or serv- 
iceabihty. 

If these kitchens are equipped according to the suggestions in the 
detailed list, pupils will have much practical work in determining 
comparative desirability and cost of kitchen furnishings. For in- 
stance, three gas stoves were bought, but of three different makes; 
an iron sink was placed in one kitchen, a white enamel sink in the 
second, and a stone sink in the third; the refrigerators are also of dif- 
ferent kinds. The same idea was followed in selecting the utensils; 
both glass and wooden rolling-pins are included in the list, and prices 
are given on enamel ware of three different grades. 

The equipment given is the one used for the three kitchens 
shown in plate 2A. This with the restaurant equipment which fol- 
lows, answered the purpose of this particular vocational school — to. 
give training in cooking for home-making purposes to all girls in the 
school, and to women desiring part-time instruction by means of the 
unit course in day and evening classes; also to market this product 
in the school lunch room, where 150 people could be served. Other, 
conditions would require variation in this equipment to meet pe- 
culiar needs. The specifications and prices are those of the city 
where the goods were bought. In every case prices on kitchen 
equipment are regular retail prices. Discounts obtained on quan- 
tity have been omitted. The costs of restaurant dishes, glass, and 
silver are the regular prices of a wholesale house deahng in hotel 
ware. 



30 



COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 



U 




Fig. 3. — School No. 2. Space utilized for unit kitchens, 



srwf Clear 



DizH ciexr 



IL 





n 



I ccoseT VtiiH cLoscrl 



Fig. 4.— School No. 2. Floor plans of unit kitchens. 



THE KITCHEN AND ITS EQUIPMENT. 



31 



EQUIPMENT FOR THREE UNIT KITCHENS. 
1. EQUIPMENT FOR COMMON USE BETWEEN THE THREE KITCHENS. 



Cost. 
1 refrigerator $40.00 

1 refrigerator, white, all steel 47. 00 

2 refrigerator pans, galvanized iron, large size 1. 50 
1 clothes line 75 



Cost. 



1 wheeled table 30 inches high, top 3 by 2 feet, 
shelf 6 feet from floor, 2-foot rail around top 
and shelf, the whole fmished with spar 
varnish $10. 00 



Total. 



J9.25 



2. STOREROOM EQUIPMENT FOR COMMON USE 



Cost. 

12 drip pans, 17 by 12 inches $4. 80 

6 pudding dishes, Guernsey ware, 9J inches 

outside measure 2. 40 

6 pudding dishes, Guernsey ware, lOi inches 

outside measure 3.36 

12 crocks, with covers, 4-gaIlon 9. 60 

6 crocks, with covers, 2-gaUon 3. 60 

1 teapot, earthenware, 2-quart 2. 50 

150 casseroles, red clay, 7-ounce, without 

covers, 4 inches outside 30. 00 

50ramekins, Guernsey, white inside 3. 50 

24 custard cups, Guernsey, white inside 1. 80 

6 casseroles, Guernsey, round, with cover, 

12 inches outside. No. 10 12. 00 

3 casseroles, Guernsey, round, with cover, 

9 inches outside. No. 69 3. 60 



1 set measurers, 1, 2, 4, 8 quart, J bushel, 

bound, varnished, and sealed 

1 double roasting pan 

1 North Pole ice-cream freezer 

1 White Mountain ice-cream freezer 

1 Alaska ice-cream freezer 

1 bread cutter 

2 cake closets, white japanned, 3 shelves 

2 bread boxes, white japaimed 

1 bread mixer, 8 loaves 

1 hammer, 8-ounce 

14 dozen glass cups, plain, with handle 

1 coffee pot, copper bottom 

1 stepladder, 4 steps 



3. EQUIPMENT FOR KITCHEN NO. 1 



Cost. 

1 gas stove $33. 00 

1 sink, Alberine stone, with back and cap, 
36 by 22 inches, faucets and connections 

included 23. 00 

1 table, pine, 5 by 29 feet, with drawer 5. 00 

4 factory stools, 24-inch 2. 07 

"WOODENWAEE. 

1 mop handle 35 

1 towel rack, 5 ams 15 

1 set flour buckets, 3 in a set 1. 95 

4 pastry boards, 20 by 30 inches, cleated ends. 2. 00 

1 chopping bowl, 12-inch, round, oUed 25 

Ichopping bowl, 14-inch, round, oUed 50 

1 roUing pin, 10 by 1§ inches, revolving han- 
dles 25 

5 doughnut cutters 90 

Iham board, 10 by 14 inches 30 

1 dish rack, folding 30 

1 vegetable brush, l|-inch, twine bound 45 

1 scrub brush, solid back 20 

1 potato masher 10 

1 cake spoon, 12-inch slit bowl 24 

2 cake spoons, 12-inch, solid bowl 20 

mONWABE. 

1 fry pan. No. 7 size 35 

1 fry pan, No. 8 size 38 

1 griddle, medium size, with side handle, 

No. 8 35 

1 frying kettle, with basket 1. 90 

EABTHEirWAEE. 

3 nests of bowls, 5 in a nest (brown and white) 
Guernsey 7. 35 

1 platter, 12-inch white ware 21 

1 platter, 18-inch white ware 54 

2 pitchers, Portland style, 2 J-quart 80 



Cost. 

12 measuring cups, thirds and quarters $1. 20 

4 lemon squeezers, lipped trays. No. 3 40 

2 glass rolling pins, 12 by 3 inches 90 

2 jugs, 1-gallon .• 1.00 

8 jars with flat screw tops, 1-quart 80 

8 jars with flat screw tops, 1-pint 80 

1 butter jar, flat top, medium 30 



6 spatulas, 6-inch ting, riveted in handle 

8 case knives, medium 

8 forks, three prong, medium 

6 vegetable knives, riveted handle 

6 vegetable knives, ferrule driven in handle. 

1 center-cut bread knife , 

1 butcher knife, 6-tnch 

1 bread knife, 8-inch 

1 mincing knife, 2 tings in handle , 

1 flesh fork, wooden handle 

1 ice pick, 6 inches long 

4 knives. Lasher silver , 

4 forks. Lasher silver 

1 steel for sharpening 



2 sets aluminum measuring spoons i,i,i. 

1 aluminum spoon, 13 inches long 

1 aluminum spoon, 16 inches long 

12 teaspoons, Lasher silver 

8 tablespoons, Lasher silver 



3.00 
.84 
.84 
.90 
.60 
.50 
.35 
.45 
.35 
.25 
.10 
.66 
.46 
.80 



.40 
.35 
.40 
.65 
.94 



AGATE OR ENAMEL TVAEE. 

1 teakettle, seamless, 5-quart 1. 10 

1 saucepan, 2-quart, lipped 25 

1 saucepan, 3-quart, lipped -35 

1 saucepan, 4-quart, lipped 40 



32 



COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 



3. EQUIPMENT FOR KITCHEN NO. 1— Continued. 



AGATE OR ENAMEL WARE — Continued. 

Cost. 

3 enamel covers for the above $0. 70 

1 rice or milk boiler, 1-quart, with enamel 

cover 85 

1 rice or milk boiler, 2-quart, with enamel 

cover 00 

1 rice or milk boiler, 3-quart, with enamel 

cover 1. 25 

1 rice or milk boiler, 4-quart, with enamel 

cover 1. 60 

1 stove pot, 14-quart, with enamel cover 1. 70 

4 Berlin kettles, 6-quart, with enamel cover. . 3. 12 

2 pie plates, large, 11-inch diameter, 12/4 
inches deep 48 

12 pie plates, small, 9-inch diameter, | inch 

deep 2. 16 

1 wash bowl, 12-inch diameter 30 

1 dish pan, 16^ineh diameter, 5 inches deep. . 1. 00 

1 ladle with hooked handle 15 

1 colander. No. 2 size 50 

1 coffee pot, 4-quart, enamel cover 80 

1 comer sink strainer 25 

TINWARE. 

1 strainer, 4-inch, with rest and wooden 

handle 10 

1 strainer, fine, 6 inches in diameter 25 

1 strainer, coarse, 6 inches in diameter 25 

1 soap shaker, large 15 

7 cake coolers, 10 by 14 inches 1. 05 

1 dish drainer, heavy wire 25 

2 potato ricers 25 

1 fuimel, large, 7- inch 35 

1 funnel, small, 4 J-inch 20 

1 flour sifter ; 25 

6 bread tins. No. 1 sponge 1.20 

2 cake pans. No. 2 square biscuit 60 



TINWARE — continued . 

2 cake pans. No. 1 square biscuit 

1 grater, No. 2 

1 grater. No. 2 (different make) 

1 colander, 12-inch 

1 cake turner, square ^ 

1 quart measure, graduated 

1 coror 

1 milk-bottle opener 

12 biscuit cutters, 4 each of sizes Nos. 1, 2, 

and 3 

1 skimmer ladle 

1 wire dishcloth 

2 sets muffin tins, 12 in a set 

1 angel-cake tin, tube, removable bottom 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

1 garbage pail, with cover, galvanized iron. . . 

1 rubbish can, galvanized iron 

1 scrub pail, 12-quart, heavy, galvanized iron. 

1 twine mop, medium, 16-ounce 

1 broom 

1 can opener, with corkscrew 

3 egg beaters. No. 1 

2 egg beaters 

1 set spice boxes, 5 in a set, white enamel 

1 dustpan 

1 sanitary dustpan 

1 dustpan brush 

1 dustpan brush. No. 3 

1 cream whip, 1-quart 

1 ice-cream disher, 10 portions to quart 

1 food chopper 

4 asbestos mats, round, 10-inch, tin-boimd. . . 
4 abestos mats, oval, 12-inch, tin-bound 



Cost. 

$0.50 
.10 
.10 
.60 
.10 
.20 
.10 
.05 

L20 
.10 
.10 

LOO 
.20 

.78 

2.00 

.50 

.35 

.50 

.10 

L50 

.30 

.45 

.35 

.50 

1.00 

.35 

.50 

L50 

LOO 

.40 

.60 



Total 161.12 



4. EQUIPMENT FOR KITCHEN NO. 2. 



Cost. 

1 gas stove $40. 00 

1 sink, iron enamel, -with, integral back, faucets 

and connections included 15. 00 

1 composition top table 10. 00 

1 table, pine, 5 feet by 29 inches, with drawer . . 5. 00 

WOODENWARE. 

1 mop handle 35 

1 towel rack, 5-arm 15 

1 set flour buckets, 3 in a set 1. 95 

4 pastry boards, 20 by 30 inches, cleated ends. . 2. 00 

1 rolling pin, 10 by IJ, revolving handles 25 

1 chopping bowl, round, 12-inch, oiled 25 

1 chopping bowl, round, 14-inch, oiled 50 

6 doughnut cutters 90 

1 ham board, 10 by Uinches 30 

1 dish rack, folding 30 

1 vegetable brush, l§-inch , twine-bound 45 

1 potato masher 10 

2 cake spoons, 12-inch, slit bowl 24 

2 cake spoons, 12-inch, solid bowl 20 

1 scrub brush, solid back 20 

IRON WARE. 

1 fry pan, size No. 7 20 

1 fry pan, size No. 8 38 

1 griddle, medium size, with side handle. 

No. 8 35 

1 frying kettle with basket. No. 0100 L. & G. 

Mfg. Co 1.90 



EARTHEN WARE. 

Cost. 

3 nests of bowls, 4 in set, white ware $6. 90 

2 milk pitchers, white ware, C. C. , 2J-quart . . .66 
1 platter, white ware, C. C, 12-quart 21 

1 platter, white ware, C . C . , 18-quart 54 

GLASS. 

12 measuring cups, thirds and quarters 1. 20 

4 lemon squeezers, with lipped trays No. 3.. . .40 

2 glass rolling pins, 12 by 3 inches 90 

2jugs, 1-gallon 1.00 

8 jars with flat screw tops, 1-quart 80 

Sjars with flat screw tops, 1-pint 80 

1 butter jar, flat top, medium 30 

CUTLERY. 

6 spatulas, 6-inch, ting riveted in handle 3. 00 

8 case knives, medium 84 

8 forks, three-prong, medium 84 

6 vegetable knives, riveted handle . ., 90 

6 vegetable knives, ferrule driven in handle. . . 60 

1 center-cut bread knife No. 127 50 

1 butcher knife, 6-inch 35 

1 bread knife, 8-inch 45 

1 mincing knife, 2 tings in handle 35 

1 flesh fork, wooden handle 25 

1 ice pick, inches long 10 

1 French meat carver, 10 inches long 1. 25 

1 lamb cleaver, 8-inch blade 1. 15 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 1 PLATE 2 




A. SCHOOL NO. 2. UNIT KITCHENS. 




B. DETAIL OF ONE KITCHEN SHOWN IN A. 



THE KITCHEN AND ITS EQUIPMENT. 



33 



4. EQUIPMENT FOR KITCHEN NO. 2— Continued. 



CUTLEKY — continued. Cost. 

4 knives, Lasher silver $0.66 

2 forks, Lasher silver 46 



SPOONS. 

2 sets aluminum measuring spoons,i, J, J. . . 

1 aluminum spoon, 13 inches long 

1 aluminimi spoon, 16 inches long 

12 teaspoons. Lasher sUver 

8 tablespoons. Lasher silver 



AGATE OR ENAMEL WARE. 

1 teakettle, seamless, 5 quarts 

1 saucepan, 2-quart, lipped 

1 saucepan, 3-quart, lipped 

1 saucepan, 4-quart, lipped 

3 enamel covers for the above 

1 rice or milk boUer, 1-quart, with enamel 

cover 

I rice or milk boiler, 2-quart, with enamel 

cover 

1 rice or milk boiler, 3-quart with enamel 

cover 

1 rice or milk boiler, 4-quart, with enamel 

cover 

1 stove pot, 14-quart, with enamel cover 

4 Berlin kettles, 6-inch, with enamel cover. . . 

2 pie plates, large, 1 1 inches diameter, 1 \ inches 
deep 

12pie plates, small, 9inches diameter, IJinches 

deep 

1 washbowl, 12 inches diameter 

1 dishpan, 14-quart, 161 by 5 inches 

1 comer sink strainer 

1 ladle with hooked handle 

1 colander. No. 2 size 

TINWARE. 

1 strainer, 4-inch,with rest and wooden handle . . 10 

1 fine strainer, 6 inches diameter 25 

1 coarse strainer, 6 inches diameter 25 

1 extension strainer 10 

1 large soap shaker 15 

7 cake coolers, 10 by 14 inches 1. 05 

1 dish drainer, heavy wire 25 

2 potato ricers 50 



.40 
.35 
.40 
.65 
.94 

.60 
.15 
.18 
.22 

.47 

.53 

.60 

.75 

.95 
LIO 
1.80 

.36 

1.44 
.20 
.59 
.25 
.10 
.33 



TINWARE — continued. qq^^ 

3 layer-cake tins, round, medium $0. 30 

1 fmmel, large, 7-inch 35 

1 funnel, small, 4^inch 20 

1 flour sifter 25 

6 bread tins. No. 1 sponge L20 

2cakepans, No. 2 square biscuit 60 

2 cake pans. No. 1 square biscuit 50 

1 grater. No. 2 10 

1 grater. No. 2 (different make) 10 

1 colander, 12-inch 60 

1 cake turner, square 10 

1 quart measure, graduated... 20 

1 corer lo 

12biscuitcutters,4eachofsizesNos.l,2,and3. 1.20 

1 skimmer, flat 10 

1 skimmer, ladle lo 

1 mUk-bottle opener 05 

1 wire dishcloth 10 

1 nutmeg grater lo 

1 angel-cake tin, tube, removable bottom 20 

2 sets muflin tins, 12 in a set 1. 00 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

1 garbage pail with cover, galvanized iron 

No. 03 78 

1 rubbish can 2. 00 

1 scrub pail, hea^^-, galvanized iron, 12-quart. . 50 

1 twine mop, 16-ouiice, medium 35 

1 broom 50 

1 can opener, with corkscrew 10 

3 egg beaters 1. 50 

2 egg beaters (different makes) - .30 

1 cream whip, 1-quart 50 

1 set spice boxes, white enamel, 5 in a set 45 

1 aluminum tea ball 20 

1 dustpan 35 

1 sanitary dustpan 50 

1 dustpan brush 1. oo 

1 dustpan brush (different size) 35 

1 food chopper 1. oo 

4 asbestos mats, round, 10-inch, tin bound. . . .40 

4 asbestos mats, oval, 12-uich, tin bound 60 

1 ice-cream disher, 10 portions to the quart. . . 1. 50 



Total 142. 50 



5. EQUIPMENT FOR KITCHEN NO. 3. 



Cost. 

1 gas stove $38. 00 

1 cast-iron sink, with back, faucets included . 7. 00 
1 table, pine, 5 feet by 29 inches, with draw. . 5. 00 
4 factory stools, 24-iuch 2.07 



WOODENWARE. 



.60 



1 pastry board, 20 by 30 inches, cleated ends. 
1 rolling pin, 10 by 7J inches, revolving han- 
dles 

1 roimd chopping bowl, 12-inch, oiled 

1 round chopping bowl, 14-inch, oiled 

2 wooden cake spoons, i2-inch, slit bowl 

2 wooden cake spoons, 12-inch, solid bowl 

1 potato masher 

6 doughnut cutters 90 

Iham board, 10 by 14 inches 30 

1 dish rack, folding 30 

1 vegetable brush, 1^-inch, twine bound 45 

1 set flour buckets, 3 in a set 1. 95 

1 clotheshorse, 5 feet, 3-fold 95 



"WOODENWARE— continued. 

1 towel rack, 5-arm 

1 mop handle 

1 scrub brush, solid back 



IRONWARE. 

1 fry pan, No. 7 size 

1 fry pan. No. 8 size : 

1 griddle, medium size, with side handle, 
No. 8 

1 fry kettle with basket 

EARTHERNWARE. 

3 nests of bowls, 4 in a set, yellow ware 

2 miUcpitchers, white ware, 2J-quart 

1 platter, 12-inch, white ware 

1 platter, 18-inch, white ware 



GLASSWARE. 

12 measuring cups, thirds and quarters 

4 lemon squeezers with lipped trays, No. 3. 
2 glass rolling pins, 12 by 3 inches 



Cost. 

$0.15 
.35 
.20 

.35 

.38 

.35 
.90 

4.56 
.66 
.21 
.54 

1.20 
.40 
.90 



34 



COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 



4. EQUIPMENT FOR KITCHEN NO. 3— Continued. 



GLASSWARE — continued. 



2 jugs, 1-gallon 

1 butter jar, flat top, medium 

8 jars, with flat screw tops, 1-quart. 
8 jars, with flat screw tops, 1-pint. . 



6 spatulas, 6-inch, ting riveted in handle 

6 case knives, medium 

8 forks, three-prong, medium 

6 vegetable knives, riveted handles 

6 vegetable knives, ferrule driven Ln handle. 

1 bread knife, center cut 

1 bread knife, 8-ineh 

1 butcher knife, C>-inch 

1 flesh fork, wooden handle 

1 mincing knife, 2 tings in handle 

lice pick, 6 inches long 

4 knives. Lasher silver 

4 forks. Lasher silver , 



SPOONS. 

2 sets aluminum measuring spoons, J, j, J... 

1 aluminum spoon, 13 inches long 

1 aluminum spoon, 16 inches long 

12 teaspoons. Lasher silver 

8 tablespoons, Lasher silver 



Cost. 

$L00 

.30 



3.00 
.84 
.84 
.90 
.60 
.50 
.45 
.35 
.25 
.35 
.10 
.66 
.46 



.40 
.35 
.40 
.65 
.94 



AGATE OK ENAMEL WARE. 

1 teakettle, seamless, 7-quart 

1 saucepan, 2-quart, lipped 

1 saucepan, 3-quart, lipped 

1 saucepan, 4-quart, lipped 

3 enamel covers for the above 

1 rice or milk boiler, 2-quart, with enamel 

cover 

1 rice or milk boiler, 3-quart, with enamel 

cover 

1 rice or milk boiler, 4-quart, with enamel 

cover 

4 Berlin kettles, 6-quart, with enamel cover. . 

1 Berlin kettle, 14-quart, with enamel cover. . 

2 pie plates, 11 inches diameter, IJ inches 
deep 

12 pie plates, 9-iiich diameter by | inch deep . 

1 washbowl, 12-inch diameter 

1 dishpan, 14-quart, 16J-iiich diameter by 5 

inches deep 

1 ladle with hooked handle, 8 J inches long 

1 colander, 3-quart size, top measure, lOJ 

inches 

1 coffee pot, 4-quart, enamel cover 

TINWARE. 

1 strainer, 4-inch, with rest and wooden han- 
dle 10 

1 fine strainer, 6-inch diameter 25 



L35 
.30 
.35 
.41 
.60 



L35 

L65 
3.60 
L75 

.60 

2.64 

.35 

1.25 
.25 

.65 
.90 



TINWARE — continued. 

Cost. 

1 coarse strainer. 6-inch diameter SO. 25 

1 extension strainer lo 

1 soap shaker, large 15 

7 cake coolers, 10 by 14 inches 1.05 

1 dish drainer, heavy wire 25 

2 potato ricers 50 

1 large funnel, 7-inch 35 

1 small funnel, 4^inch 20 

1 flour sifter 25 

6 bread tins, No. 1 sponge l. 20 

2 cake pans, No. 2, square biscuit 60 

2 cake pans. No. 1, square biscuit 50 

grater. No. 2 10 

grater, No. 2 (different make) 10 

colander, 12-inch 60 

cake turner, square 10 

quart measure, graduated 20 

corer 10 

2 biscuit cutters, 4 ea«h of sizes Nos. 1 , 2, and 

3 1.20 

skimmer, flat 10 

skimmer ladle 10 

wire dishcloth 10 

milk-bottle opener 05 

nutmeg grater 10 

angel cake tin, tube, removable bottom 20 

sets muffin tins, 12 in a set 1. 00 

bread raiser. No. 110 85 

clothes boiler, seamless cover 2. 50 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

garbage pail, with cover, galvanized iron. . . . 78 

rubbish can, galvanized iron 2. 00 

scrub pail, heavy, 12-quart, galvanized iron. . 50 

twine mop, 16-ounce, medium 35 

broom 50 

can opener, with corkscrew 10 

egg beaters. No. 1 1. 50 

egg beaters (different make) 30 

cream whip, 1-quart 50 

set spice boxes, white enamel, 5 in a set 45 

food chopper 1. 00 

ice-cream disher, 10 to quart 1. 50 

asbestos mats, round, 10-inch, tin bound. . . .40 

asbestos mats, oval, 12-inch, tin bound 60 

knife sharpener 1. 25 

clothes basket, oval, willow, medium size. . 1. 50 

wringer and bench 6. 50 

mop wringer on pail 2. 50 

glass washboard 50 

dustpan 35 

sanitary dustpan 50 

dustpan brush 1. 00 

dustpan brush (different size) 35 



Total 152. 01 



1 



THE KITCHEN AND ITS EQUIPMENT. 



35 



LISTS OF MATERIAL AND COST OF CONSTRUCTING THREE UNIT 
KITCHENS, SCHOOL NO. 1. 

Figures 1 and 2 show how the third floor of a wooden storage building was con- 
verted into unit kitchens. Plate No. 1 is a photograph of one of these kitchens. This 
portion of the building had never been finished; so in addition to sheathing the walls, 
it was necessary to install plumbing, electric wiring, and gas connections. The 
carpentry and wiring were done by the boys' department of the school. Expendi- 
ttires for stock are given below. 



3,637 feet gumwood flooring $134. 94 

273 feet hemlock boards 6. 55 

1,954 feet spruce, 2 by 2 inches 52. 77 

1,200 feet furring ^. . 32. 90 

675 feet matched spruce 20. 09 

201 feet North Carolina pine 11. 05 

4,014 feet cypress | by 2 inches 40. 14 

502 feet J-inch molding 3. 26 

335 feet cypress, 7^1nch base 18. 43 

1,004 feet 7.8 by 12-inch c>-press 30. 12 

180 pounds 7-penny wire nails 5. 40 

125 pounds 8-penny common nails 4.41 

25 pounds wire lath nails 1. 50 

55 pounds wire nails 1. 94 

25 pounds IJ-penny wire nails 1. 50 

11,376 square feet wall board 225. 96 

9 mortise locks 6. 75 

9 pairs jet knobs 1. 80 



9 keyhole escutcheons $1. 08 

9 base knobs .18 

1 can floor wax .50 

2 coats paint for walls and oiling floors 186. 00 

Plumbing 132. 00 

Doors and hinges were taken from another 

part of the plant. 

ELECTRICAL MATERL\L. 

Stock for wiring $24. 22 



Fixtures 

Panel box 

Fuses 

Extra wiring for power circuit. 
Plug receptacles 



71.50 
12.80 
4.20 
5.50 
9.96 



Total 1, 077. 45 



LISTS OF MATERIAL AND COST OF CONSTRUCTING THREE UNIT 
KITCHENS, SCHOOL No. 2. 

In this brick building a partition was torn out, throwing two rooms into one, and 
kitchens installed in this space. Figures 3 and 4 give the space both before and 
after the alterations. Plate 2 A shows the finished kitchens and Plate 2 B shows one 
kitchen in detail. 

The work was done by contract according to the items given below. As the rooms 
were already Lighted by both electricity and gas there was no additional expense for 
either fixtures or installation. 

Carpentry, Including lumber and labor $280. 00 

Plastering 124. OO 

Plumbing, including sinks, prices of which are given under equipment for each kitchen, also copper 
pipes for gas-stove coimections 210. 00 



Total 614. 00 



Restaurant record and cost sheet (date) , 1914. 



Amount. 


Article. 


Quantity of material 
used. 


Cost. 


Sellmg 
price. 


Left 
over. 


Disposal. 

















Signature of clerk. 



Total 
Cost of service 
Cost of ice 
Cost of fuel 
Total cost 

Receipts 



Signature of teacher. 



36 



COOKING IN THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. 
CARD FOR COOKING RECEIPTS. 



Individual receipt card used in teaching cooking. 
The back of the card is for "Directions." 





Cooking Receipts. 






Name 


Date 






Article 


Quantity 






Method of cooking. . . 


Time 










Material. 


Quantity. 


Cost. 











Helpful books for the kitchen. 



Books. 



Author. 



Publisher. 



Price. 



Boston Cooking-School Cook Book. 

A New Book of Cookery 

Food and Cookery for the Sick and 
Convalescent. 

What to Have for Dinner 

Fireless Cook Book 

International Cook Book , 

Practical Cooking and Serving , 

The New Housekeeping 

Like Mother Used to Make 

The Cook Book of Leftovers , 

Paper Bag Cookery 

Home Science Cook Book 



Lessons in Cookery through Prepa- 
ration of Meals. 

Library of Home Economics (12 
volumes). 

Pure Foods 

The Lunch Room 



Food and Dietetics 

The Efficient Kitchen. 



Fanny M. Farmer. . . 

do , 

do 



....do 

M. J. Mitchell. 
A. FUippini... 

Janet Hill 

C. Frederick . . 
C. T. Herrick. 



Nicholas Soyer , 

Mary J. Lincoln and 
Anna Barrows. 



John Olsen.... 
Paul Richards. 



Robert Hutchinson. . 
GeorgieB. Child 



Little, Brown & Co., New York. . 

....do 

do 



.do. 



Doubleday, Page & Co., New York. 

do 

....do 

....do 

Dana, Estes & Co., Boston 

Harper & Bros. , New York 

Sturges & Walton, New York 

Whitcomb & Barrow, Boston 



American School of Home Eco 

nomics, Chicago. 
do 



Ginn & Co 

The Hotel Monthly, 443 South 
Dearborn St., Chicago. 

William Wood & Co., New York.. 

Housekeeping Experiment Sta- 
tion, Stamford, Comi. 



$L60 
1.60 
1.50 

1.0 

1.25 

1.00 

1.50 

1.00 

1.25 

1.00 

1.00 

1.00 



16.20 



2.00 



3.00 
1.25 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note — With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmann. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

*No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
*No. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
*No. 3. Daily meals of school chUdren. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. • 

tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; arnount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thomdike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1907. 
*No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
*No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in rafiroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

*No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

♦No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
♦No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. • 50 cts. 
tNo. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 

I 



II BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. IS cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education .in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
fNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
fNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 

No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
fNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 1908-9. 
fNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
fNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. Harlan Updegrafl. 20 cts. 

No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 
*No. 1. A course ofstudy for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F. Mutchler and W. J. Craig. Sets. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on imiform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. S. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 

*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. 5 cts. [ Later publication, 1913, No. 12. 10 cts.j 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrick. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. IS. Current educational topics. No. it. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
*No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
*No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. 5 cts. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegraff and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 

No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. Dawson Johnston and Isadore G. Mudge. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics, No. HI. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-1911. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
♦No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Chas. Goldziher. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
*No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 5 cts. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
*No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 
*No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 
*No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. IH 

*No. 6. Agricultural instruction in high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenks. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

tNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

fNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

tNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efficiency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

*No. 14. Agricultiu-al instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

*No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
*No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia Club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States. Georg Kerschensteiner. 

5 cts. 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
tNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

*No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
*No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
*No. 31. Special featiu'es in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 
tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
*No. 34. Pension systems ia Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
*No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
*No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
*No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmann. 
*No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Hem-y S. Curtis. 10 cts. 

No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
*No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
*No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

*No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
*No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and Adams Phillips. 

No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCarm. 
*No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
*No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, Oct. 1, 1909, to Oct. 1, 1912. James C. 

Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive featiKes of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 

No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-1 1» 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

*No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 
No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 
No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfleld. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 
No. 6. Kindergartens ia the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. R. W. Stimson. 
No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1914. 
♦No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 
No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications. May, 1914. 
No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 
No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 

Royal B. Famum. 
No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 
No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 
No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 
No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 
No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 
No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 
No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 
No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 
No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. "W. Foght. 
No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 
No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 
No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 
No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 
No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 
No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 
No. 33. Music in the public schools. WUl Earhart. 

No. 34. Library iustruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 
No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charlas H. Judd. 
No. 36. Education for the home — Part I. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 37. Education for the home — Part II. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 39. Education for the home — Part IV. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 40. Care of the health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 
No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 
No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 
No. 43. Educational directory. 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 
No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 
No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 
No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 
No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 
No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural school teachers. H. W. Foght. 
No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN. 1915. NO. 2 WHOLE NUMBER 626 

MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT 
EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS 

COMPILED BY THE LIBRARY DIVISION OF THE 
BUREAU OF EDUCATION. UNDER THE DIREC- 
TION OF JOHN D. WOLCOTT, CHIEF OF DIVISION 



JANUARY, 1915 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED PROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

6 CENTS PER COPY 



MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT EDUCATIONAL 

PUBLICATIONS. 



Contents.— Introductory notes — Publications of associations— Educational history and biography — 
Ciurent educational conditions — Pedagogics and didactics — Educational psychology. Child study — Special 
methods of instruction — Special subjects of curriculum — Kindergarten and primary school — Rural educa- 
tion — Secondary education — Teachers: Training and professional status — Higher education — School 
administration — School management — School hygiene and sanitation — Sex hygiene — Physical training — 
Play and playgrounds — Social aspects of education — Moral education — Religious education — Manual and 
vocational training — Vocational guidance — Agriculture, home gardening — Home economics — Professional 
education— Civic education — Education of women — Orientals — Defective and delinquent children — Edu- 
cation extension — Libraries and museums — Bureau of Education: Recent publications — BuUetia oi the 
Bureau of Education. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTES. 

Some noteworthy recent books are the following, the numbers in 
parentheses referring to the numbers of the full entries in this bul- 
letin: Welton, What do we mean by education? (1909); Jacoby, 
Child training as an exact science (1912); Thorndike, Educational 
psychology, briefer course (1919); Winch, Children's perception 
(1923); Fairchild, Teachmg of poetry in the high school (1938); 
Fisher, Mothers and children (1968); Stout, The high school (1981); 
Bagley, School discipline (2009) ; Crafts, Bible in schools — plans of 
many lands (2036) ; Davis, Vocational and moral guidance (2054) ; 
Hill, Teachmg of civics (2066) ; Binet and Simon, Mentally deficient 
children, authorized translation (2077). 

Only publications of the Bureau of Education are available for 
free distribution by this office. All others here listed may ordinarily 
be obtained from their respective publishers, either directly or through 
a dealer, or, in the case of an association publication, from the secre- 
tary of the issuing organization. 

Books, pamphlets, etc., intended for inclusion in this record should 
be sent to the library of the Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 



PUBLICATIONS OF ASSOCIATIONS. 

1886. Arkansas teachers' association. Minutes of the sixteenth annual session 
. . . held at Little Rock, Ark., December 28-31, 1913. 38 p. 8». (Lila M. 
Barnette, secretary, Little Rock, Ark.) 

Contains: 1. A. R. Reeves: The basis of ethical training, p. 28-31. 2. L. M. Favrot: Tho 
school— a vital factor in a people's progress, p. 31-35. 3, A. B. Crump: Agricultural extension 
work, p. 35-38. 

3 



4 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS, 

1887. National association of school accounting ofiB.cers. Report oi the meet- 

ing .. . May 19-21, 1914, Memphis, Tenn. 62 p. 8°. (William Dick, 
secretary-treasurer, Board of public education, Philadelphia, Pa.) 

Contains: 1. August Hiller: School accounting and costs, p. 7-17. 2. H. R. M. Cook: Some 
school atfairs, p. 19-32. 3. William Dick: Concentration of business functions in public school 
administration, p. 32-35. 4. W. T. Keough: Overhead costs, p. 36-40. 5. G. W. Gorwig: Stand- 
ard imits of school measurement, p. 40-45. 6. C. P. Mason: Preparation of the budget, p. 45-58. 

1888. New York state association of district superintendents. Proceedings 

of the first and second annual meeting ... for the years 1912-1913, and 
1913-1914. 279 p. 8".- (Gertrude E. Hyde, secretary, Moira, N. Y.) 

Contains: 1. T. E Finegan: Important features of rural education, p. 5-20. 2. G. H. Covey: 
Cooperative agencies in the work of district superintendents, p. 21-28; Discussion, p. 29-32. 
3. Sherman Williams: Reading circles for teachers and pupils, p. 32-37. 4. A. J. Fields: Play as 
an educational factor, p. 64-67; Discussion, p. 67-68. 5. C. W. Wheelock: Relation of district 
superintendents to high schools, p. 71-76; Discussion, p. 76-78. 6. T. E. Finegan: The imme- 
diate needs for our rural schools, p. 104-20. 7. W. E Pierce: Powers and duties of the district 
superintendent, p. 122-30; Discussion, p. 130-34. 8. W. H. Maxwell: [Duties of the superin- 
tendent] p. 135-37. 9. P. P. Claxton: Certain phases of the reorganization of country and vill- 
lage schools, p. 137-44. 10. M. T. Scudder: The Montessori system, p. 144-48. U. J. H. Mac- 
Cracken: Politics and the schools, p. 148-5S. 12. W. F. Johnson: Relation between the rural 
public school and the metropolitan university, p. 174-90. 13. M. A. Bigelow: Sex education, 
p. 190-200. 14. H. H. Horner: Shall the present system of grade examinations in New York 
statebecontinued, p. 213-37; Discussion, p. 237-42. 15. Ruth M. Johnston: Shallgrade exami- 
nations be abolished, p. 242-40; Discussions, p. 246-50. 16. Sherman Williams: What should 
be accomplished tlirough the use of the school library, p. 253-62. 

1889. South Dakota educational association. Proceedings of the thirty-iirst 

annual session . . . held at Sioux Falls, November 24-26, 1913. 408 p. 8°. 
(J. C. Lindsey, secretary, Mitchell, S. Dak.) 

Contains: 1. E. C. Perisho: The rural school and the state, p. 40-50. 2. C. G. Lawrence: 
Dominant educational needs in South Dakota, p. 51-60. 3. A. A. McDonald: How the high 
schools can aid the rural schools, p. 68-77. 4. F. L. Cook: The state normal school and rural 
teaching, p. 81-S5. 5. J. W. Browning: The schools and the critics, p. 91-101. 6. H. P. Pat- 
terson: Ideals in present day education, p. 102-10. 7. O. O. Young: Standardization of South 
Dakota high schools, p. 111-16. 8. G. M. Smith: The pensioning of South Dakota teachers, p. 
127-34. 9. G. G. Wen^lafl: The preparation of teachers for rural schools, p. 141-46. 10. Dilla 
E. Wimple: Rural school graduation— how successfully accomplished, p. 147-50. 11. C. G. St. 
John: The advantages of consolidated schools, p. 155-62. 12. C. K. Overhulse: The teacher as 
community leader, p. 163-68. 13. Kathryn M. French: Adolescent Tom and Mary, p. 169-76. 
14. J. W.Heaton: Education and life, p. 181-85. 15. Dilla E. Wimple: Teaching classics in the 
lower grades, p. 186-91. 16. C. H. Lugg: The school's relation to efhciency, p. 200-7. 17. Mar- 
garet D. Kirby: Educationof our girls for home-making, p. 208-14. 18. Maude Fox: The value 
ofplay, p. 226-31. 19. A. N. Hume: The spirit of agriculture in education, p. 263-74. 20. J. G. 
Parsons: The economic value of health supervision of schools, p. 275-79. 21. Alexander Stra- 
chan: Physical education and effleiency, p. 280-84. 22. C. R. Goff: Securing and retaining the 
real teacher, p. 285-92. 23. J. W. McClinton: The school board membership, p. 293-99. 24. 
Emily Chapman: How can we make the teaching of English practical, p. 313-23. 25. W. F. 
Jones: The vitality of teaching, p. 338-46; Discussion by E. C. Woodburn, p. 347-50. 

EDUCATIONAL HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY. 

1890. Kitchin, W. P. H. Recollections of Louvain university. Catholic world, 

100: 378-85, December 1914. 

Interesting account of the work at Louvain, which combined "the systems of both English 
and continental universities." 

CURRENT EDUCATIONAL CONDITIONS. 

1891. Bardeen, Charles W. The truth about school surveys. School bulletin, 

41: 55-57, November 1914. 

Address before the Council of city superintendents, October 22, 1914. 

The author says that the requisites of a school survey are, first, competent persons to conduct 
it; second, the persons conducting it must have a right purpose; third, they must have suffi- 
cient time; fourth, they must have the perspective; and fifth, they must grasp the local situa- 
tion. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 5 

1892. Doumic, Rene. Le retour a la culture fran^aise. Revue dea deux mondes, 

24, 317-28, November 15, 1914. 

Demands a return to the classical culture of France: " Deliver us from the pedantic, mediocre, 
and amorphous education it VallemandeJ Give us back education in clarity, nobility, and beauty, 
tilafran<iaise." 

1893. The nation's adventures in education. Unpopular review, 3: 149-58, January- 

March 1915. 

Writer mentions the need of preservine; a due sense of proportion in the educational ventures 
undertaken by the federal government. He asks: "Which shall the nation attend to first, 
special education or elementary education; generosity to immigrants or justice to native-bom; 
to accelerate her industries or to insure civilization throughout her borders? " 

1894. Parkinson, W. D. Literacy and the immigrant. Journal of education, 

80: 567-70, December 10. 1914. 

1895. Stout, John Elbert. Tests of educational achievement. Midland schools, 

29: 103-8, December 1914. 
Address delivered before the Iowa state teachers' association, November 5, 1914. 

1896. Tavemier, Eugene. Independent teaching in France during the last ten 

years. Constructive quarterly, 2: 850-67, December 1914. 

Independence in the meaning of the writer is " teaching independent of the State." Describes 
the struggles of French Catholics to instruct their teachers, etc., apart from lay schools. 

1897. WMttaker, H. W. The inadequacy of our present system of public schools. 

Teacher's journal, 14: 247-52, December 1914. 

Discusses the subject under the following headings: The need of industrial and vocational 
education for the masses, Importance and purpose of our public schools, The school for the 
plain man, Trade education for women. Vocational educaticm and organized labor, and Trade 
education and socialism. 

PEDAGOGICS AND DIDACTICS. 

1898. Bardeen, Charles W. The girl from Girton, and other stories about schools. 

Syracuse, N. Y., C. W. Bardeen, 1914. 235, xxxii p. 12°. 

1899. Bolton, Frederick E. Some standards of success in teaching. Journal of 

education, 80: 507-8, November 26, 1914. 

The writer says that a successful teacher is enthusiastic about his work and is constantlv 
studying in the attempt to improve the efficiency of his work. Some marks of success in anv 
teachei are the number of pupils who successfully accomplish the given work, the number of 
pupils who go on to a higher grade, the respect of the pupils for the teacher, and the refining 
influence of the teacher upon pupils and community. 

1900. Bumham, WiUiara H., ed. Bibliographies on educational subjects. Worces- 

ter, Mass., Clark university press [1914] 45 p. 8». (Clark university library. 
Publications, vol. 4, no. 3, December 1914) 

1901. Findlay, J. J. Educational science in Australia — and elsewhere. Educa- 

tional times (London) 67: 539-42, December 1, 1914. 

1902. Hayes, Edward C. Education for personality. Educational review, 43: 

475-86, December 1914. 

Sociology furnishes valuable guidance to education. Says that "nature does not give us 
conscience but only the capacity to acquire one, social evolution and education must do the 
rest." 

1903. Hodgson, Elizabeth. The motivation of school work. American education, 

18: 140-43, November 1914. 

1904. Klapper, Paul. Efficiency in class instruction. Educational review, 43: 

498-13. December 1914. 

Defines efficiency as "that state in which we approximate preconceived ends or values through 
an economical expenditure of time and energy." Examinations and tests must be reorganized 
so that thoy become "a truer ndex of the charactflr of class work," etc. Suggests methods. 



6 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

1905. Morton, W. H. The socialized recitation. Nebraska teacher, 17: 204-5, 

December 1914. 
Describes a new type of recitation rapidly spreading over Nebraska. 

1906. Oehme, Walter. Stramungen der modemen padagogik. Neue bahnen, 25: 

533-52, October 1914. 

A penetrating and comprehensive analysis of contemporary pedagogical tendencies as the 
reflection of conscious efforts made to attain the goal set by the development of the whole of 
social life. "Education has its roots in culture (kultur); it possesses no movement of its own; 
its movement is the movement of culture." 

1907. Oliphant, James. Education and sex aptitudes. School world (London) 16: 

441-44, December 1914. 

Writer says we must be careful "not to exaggerate sex differences by giving too much heed 
to them." The best attitude to take relative to sex aptitudes up to the age of 14 is to ignore 
them altogether. 

1908. Sanders, Frederic W. The organization of education. Education, 35: 

231-36, December 1914. 

Discusses the high school; curriculum of secondary education, etc. Sayj: "In a rich and 
populous community, it should be perfectly feasible for a student to pmrsue the so-called cultiiral 
and vocational studies side by side for an indefinite number of years." Continued from Novem- 
ber number. 

1909. Welton James. WTiat do we mean by education? London, Macmillan and 

CO., limited, 1914. xii, 257 p. 8". 

Contents. — 1. The end rules the means. — 2. What should be the end 7 — 3. Synthesis of liberty 
and authority.— 4. ^\^lat are the means?— 5. Who are the agents? 

The author is profoundly convinced that theory of education can not be separated without 
disaster from theory of life. 

EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY, CHILD STUDY. 

1910. Adler, Alfred. Soziale einfliisse in der kinderstube. Padagogischea archiv, 

56: 473-87, heft 9, 1914. 

A discussion, by a nerve specialist of Vienna, of the social influences in the child's home environ- 
ment which unconsciously mould character and reaction to the problems of school and life. The 
analysis shows strong traces of the psychological theories of Sigmund Freud and his school. 

1911. Ballou, Frank W. Educational standards and educational measurement, 

with particular reference to standards in the four fundamentals in arithmetic. 
Boston, Printing department, 1914. 21 p. 8*. (School document no. 10— 
1914, Boston public schools. Bulletin no. 3 of the Department of educational 
investigation and measurement) 

1912. Jacoby, George W. Child training as an exact science. A treatise based 

upon the principles of modern psychology, normal and abnormal. New 
York and London, Funk & Wagnalls company, 1914. xv, 384 p. illus. 12». 

1913. Kayfetz, Isidore. A critical study of the Hillegas composition scale. Peda- 

gogical seminary, 21: 559-77, December 1914. 
Also separately reprinted. 
Bibliography: p. 576-77. 

1914. Knhlmann, F. Some results of examining a thousand public school children 

with a revision of the Binet-Simon tests of intelligence by untrained examin- 
ers. Journal of psycho-asthenics, 18: 150-79, 233-69, March, June 1914. 

1915. Monroe, Walter S. Standard tests and their uses. Teaching, 1: 9-14, 

November 1914. 

The writer says that "at present the instruments available for measuring our educational 
products are crude and are applicable to only a few elements of the total product, but such as we 
have may be used advantageously by teachers and supervising officials." 

1916. Murray, E. B. Froebel as a pioneer in modem psychology. London, George 

PhUip & son, ltd., 1914. 230 p. 12». 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 7 

1017. Peterson, Harvey A. The generalizing ability of children. Journal of edu- 
cational psychology, 5: 561-70, December 1914. 

" Generalization on the basis of resemblances is one of the most important aspects of reasoning. 
The author reports the results of an experimental study of the ability of children from 10 to 14 
years of age to generalize on four different kinds of situation. If the average rate of improvement 
be taken as an index, the generalizing ability doubles during the years in question." 

1918. Tennan, Lewis M. Precocious children. Forum, 52: 893-98, December 1914. 

Says that children who exhibit precocious tendencies should be subjected to psychological 
and medical study. Opportunities for physical development are the best safeguards against the 
danger of precocity. 

1919. Thomdyke, Edward L. Educational psychology; briefer course. New 

York, Teachers college, Columbia university, 1914. 442 p. 8*. 

A simpler treatment of the more fundamental subject matter of the author's large three- volume 
work. 

1920. The foundations of educational achievement. Educational review, 

43: 487-97, December 1914. 

Contributions to education from recent studies in psychology. 

1921. Measurements of ability to solve arithmetical problems. Pedagogical 

seminary, 21: 495-503, December 1914. 

Certain measurements which the cooperation of many principals and teachers in Massachusetts 
enabled the author to make "give results which seem worth reporting concerning three topics: 
Educational scales, Sex-differences, and Retardation." 

1922. What shall we do with left-handed pupils? A symposimn conducted by 

Walter G. McMullin. Teacher, 18: 331-38, December 1914. 

1923. Winch, W. H. Children's perceptions; an experimental study of observation 

and report in school children. Baltimore, W^arwick & York, inc., 1914. 
X, 245 p. front. 12*. (Educational psychology monographs, ed. by G. M. 
^^ipple, no. 12) 

1924. Witham, Ernest C. School measurement. Journal of educational psychology, 

5: 571-88, December 1914. 

"The author examines a number of the recent school surveys, and shows that nowhere do we 
find a scheme of school measurement thatisgenerally applicable and that furnishes comparable 
data. He then presents a scheme for such measurement, and gives sample graphs showing the 
results of its application to difl'erent schools." 

1925. Yerkes, Robert M. The point scale: a new method for measuring mental 

capacity. Boston medical and surgical journal, 171: 857-66, December 3, 
1914. 

Ascaleof mental measurements developed at the Boston psychopathic hospital, designed "to 
take the place of the Binet measuring scale of intelligence and to furnish a more defi aite and accu- 
rate index of the mental capacity of individuals than can be obtained by the employment of the 
Binet method." 

Read in abstract at the Second annual conference on the medical and social work of the 
Psychopathic hospital, June 2(.>, 1914. 

SPECIAL METHODS OF INSTRUCTION. 

1926. Ferguson, Ida May. Children and the movies. Minnestota public library 

commission library notes and news, 4: 139-42, December 1914. 
Paper read before the Minnesota federation of women's clubs, Rochester, Minn. 

1927. Hurlbert, Dorothy. Moving pictures. Minnesota public library commis- 

sion library notes and news, 4: 132-39, December 1914. 
Names some firms renting machines and films for educational purposes. 

1928. Lanier, Henry W. The educational future of the moving picture. American 

review of reviews, 50: 725-29, December 1914. 

Suggest the need of a special endowment for the study of the educational advantages of moving 
pictures; to start 'a real school library of films," etc. 



8 OUKRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

SPECIAL SUBJECTS OF CURRICULUM. 

1929. Albright, Charles E. The teaching of laboratory physics in high schools. 

Ohio teacher, 35: 148-50, November 1914. 

1930. Barth, Paul, Die seele dea geschichtlichen unterrichts. Neue bahnen, 

26: 2-16, October 1914. 

The chief interest oi historical instruction is the moral progresn revealing itself in the state as 
the bearer of this progress. This concept ol moral progress in history is not too abstract for the 
comprehension of secondary school pupils. 

1931. Beesley, Thomas Quinn. Why not the laboratory method in the study of 

literature? Catholic educational review, 8: 385-94, December 1914. 

1932. Caldwell, Otis W. Thenature-study course of the elementary school. Nature- 

study review, 10: 358-67, December 1914. 

This outline, given by grades, is the result of several years of experiment, during which many 
changes have heen made in the content of the course, the methods of work, etc. 

1933. Churchill, J. A. Nature-study. Nature-study review, 10: 368-74, December 

1914. 
From the course of study of the elementary schools of 'Oregon. 

1934. Dann, HoUis. Music in the normal school. School music, 15: 23-28, Novem- 

ber-December 1914. 

1935. Dearborn, George Van Ness. What a student of elementary psychology 

should be taught concerning the functions of the nervous system. Sonder- 
abdruck aus Journal fiir psychologic und neurologic, bd. 21, 1914. Leipzig, 
J. A. Barth, 1914. p. 35-44. 4». 
From the program of the 21st annual meeting of the American psychological association. 

1936. Dykema, Peter W. Good music: how shall we know it? Kindergarten 

review, 25: 193-96, December 1914. 

Gives some suggestions by which the ordinary teacher can be aided to form fairly adequate 
criticisms ot song material. The author says that teachers are told to teach only good music 
to children, but are left to their own devices in determining the standards of seleccion. 

1937. Earle, Samuel C. Examinations in English- English journal, 3: 612-19, 

December 1914. 

1938. Fairchild, Arthur H. B. The teaching of poetry in the high school. Boston, 

New York [etc.] Houghton Mifflin company [1914] xii, 184 p. front. 12*. 
(Riverside educational monographs, ed. by H. Suzzallo) 

1939. Fairclough, H. Rushton. The practical bearing of high-school Latin. Clas- 

sical journal, 10: 126-37, December 1914. 

A paper read before the California high-school teachers' association at Berkeley, California, 
July 1, 1914. 

Shows that Latin is "extremely practical, and worthy of being accorded an honorable and 
prominent position in the school curriculum.'' 

1940. Fikenscher, F. Die jahrzahl, der gotze des geschichtsunterrichts; ein beitrag 

zur geschichts-methodischen frage: Wie soil der geschichtsunterricht die 
zeitvorstelhmgen begrlinden und klaren? Padagogische warte, 21: 1058-67, 
October 1, 1914. 

Suggests and outlines methods of presenting a synoptic picture of a period which pupils can 
grasp as a whole of experience as superior to memorizina: of dates and chronological outlines. 
Contains also suggestions for graphic representation of chronological data and relations. 

1941. Flower, WiUiam Polk, jr. The necessity of Spanish in our Latin American 

trade expansion. Educational bi-monthly, 9:125-30, December 1914. 

1942. Foraker, F. A. The relation of the symbols of mathematics to the elements 

of the problems. Education, 35: 237-40, December 1914. 

Says that the student should be made as expert in analyzing "the conditions surrounding 
the elements of a problem as in handling the symbols in which they may be expressed in equa- 
tional form." 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 9 

1943. Guysi, Alice Viola. A workable program and better results in object drawing. 

School-arts magazine, 14: 241-45, December 1914. 

The nuttior says: "The lack of definite aims graded to suit the pupil is, I believe the cause 
of most failures in teanhing still life." 

1944. Holzworth, Charles. In defense of our modem language instruction. Edu- 

cation, 35: 211-19, December 1914. 

Discusses the subject under lour heads: 1. The nature of language itself; 2. Faults of the 
pupils who are to be taught: i,. The present system and arrangement of courses; 4. Faults 
which lie in the teachers. 

1945. Hosic, James F. The separation of literature and composition in the high 

school course. Educator-journal, 15: 182-84, December 1914. 

A synopsis of an address delivered before the Indiana association of English teachers at the 
amiual meeting in October. 

1946. Kingsley, MaudE. Examination outline for language work. Education, 35: 

248-52, December 1914. 
Intended for pupils about to enter the high school. 

1947. Kloss, Erich. Zur methodik des hygieneunterrichts in den fortbildung&- 

schulen. Zeitschrift fiir schulgesundheitspjflege, 27: 609-13, no. 9, Septem- 
ber 1914. 

The author demands that hygiene, as the science of the care of the body, should furnish the 
aim of the entire instruction in the natural sciences. 

1948. Lasher, G. S. Correct spelling — a habit. Teaching, 1: 16-20, November 1914. 

Gives a list of words misspelled by college and secondary students. The author says that the 
function of the elementary school in teaching spelling is the formation of correct habits. 

1949. McCarthy, Charles H. History and other high school branches. Catholic 

educational review, 8: 398-412, December 1914. 

1950. McConathy, Osborne. Efficiency in music teaching. School music, 15: 

18-23, November-December 1914. 
A condensed report of a talk given at the Iowa state teachers' association, November 5 1914. 

1951. Mais, S. P. B. The teaching of English prose. Educational times (London) 

67: 529-31, December 1, 1914. 

Experiences of an English teacher. Describes the interesting experiments of Caldwell Cook, 
who advocates an imitation of the best models of English literature. 

1952. MiUer, George J. High school and college duplication in science: educationaJ 

efficiency. School science and mathematics, 14: 749-53, December 1914, 

Gives a working plan for the coordination of high school and elementary college sciences. 

1953. Millspaugh, Arthur C. Notes on history teaching. School review, 22: 

678-85, December 1914. 

History, in the opinion of the writer, is taught most successfully, "not by cut-and-drled 
formulas, but by intercourse which is natural, varied, vivid, and allusive." 

1954. Morehouse, Frances M. Some criticisms of the usual form of history recita- 

tions. School and home education, 34: 142-48, December 1914. 
Read at the High school conference, University of Illinois, November 20, 1914. 

1955. Murdock, Mabel E. The teaching of composition in high schools. Penn- 

sylvania school journal, 63: 201-4, November 1914. 

1956. New Jersey. Departmentof public instruction. The teaching of reading, 

July 1914. Union Hill, N. J., Dispatch printing company, 1914. 96 p. 8*. 
"This monograph, prepared chiefly by Mr. George A. Mirick, assistant commissioner of edu- 
cation in charge of elementary schools, sets forth some of the principles which it is believed 
underlie the teaching of reading." 

1957. Poske, Friedrich. Physik und philosophie. Zeitschrift fur den phyeikali- 

schen und chemischen unterricht, 27: 302-4, heft 5, 1914. 

How can instruction in physics be made to induct the pupil into philosophical thinking? 
Suggests didactic methods, and points out the limitations of the viewpoint of physical science. 

74519°— 15 2 



10 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

1968. Roecker, W. F. An elementary course in general science: content and 
method. School science and mathematics, 14: 755-69, December 1914. 

Discussed under the following headings: The history of general science, The demand for 
elementary general science, I'resent status of elementary science in Wisconsin, The purpose of a 
general science course, The organization of the course, Content of the course. Typical exercises, 
and Method. 

1959. Russell, William F. The entrance of history into the curriculum of the 

secondary school. History teacher's inagazine, 5: 311-18, December 1914. 

1960. Schively, Adeline F. The nature-study course of the school of observation 

and practice. Nature-study review, 10: 337-58, December 1914. 

1961. Schoch, Eugene Paul. Chemistry in the high school. Austin, Tex., The 

University, 1914. 3 v. in 2. ■ illus. 8". (Bulletin of the University of 
Texas, nos. 329, 375; official series nos. 100, 110) 

Contents.— pt. I. Equipment.— pt. II. A course of lessons and exercises in general chem- 
istry.— pt. III. Teacher's manual for a course of lessons and exercises in general chemistry. 

1962. Simmons, A. T. Science in the school curriculum. School world (London) 

16: 458-61, December, 1914. 

1963. Trever, A. A. The other side. Classical journal, 10: 106-14, December 1914. 

"In the November number of the Forum an article appeared entitled, 'Wastes and abuses of 
our educational system.' The argument was directed agatast classical studies and pure mathe- 
matics, as important collegiate subjects. The superficial and off-hand manner in which the 
classics were bowed out of the halls of learning has prompted this answer." 

1964. TueU; Annie K. Our classical recollections. Atlantic monthly, 114: 778-86, 

December 1914. 

An appreciation of classical scholarship. Says that in America there is needed "some modest 
revival of Greek learning." 

1965. Weichardt, E. Gedanken iiber eine kiinftige reform unserer gymnasien und 

realgymnasien. Preussiche jahrbiicher, 158: 265-76, November 1914. 

Advocates postponement of Greek to obersekunda. 

1966. Weill, Louis. Les langues ^trang^res et I'enseignement sup^rieur. Revue 

internationale de I'enseignement, 34: 102-04, August 1914. 

At the French universities, the courses in modem languages are designed for graduates special- 
izing In modern philology. The author urges the establishment of courses designed for and 
meeting the needs of students preparing for the professions. 

1967. Wilber, Horace Z. Problems in English teaching. American schoolmaster, 

7: 398-409, November 1914. 
Address delivered before the Washington educational association, Tacoma, October 30, 1914. 

KINDERGARTEN AND PRIMARY SCHOOL. 

1968. Fisher, Dorothy Canfield. Mothers and children. New York, H. Holt 

and company, 1914. xii, 285 p. 12"'. 

1969. Helm.s, Nik. M. Nogle bemaerkninger om Montessorimetoden. Vor ungdom, 

September 1914, p. 323-27. 

Concludes that Madame Montessori has made a real contribution to both the theory and 
practice of child training. 

RURAL EDUCATION. 

1970. Bvirton, A. C. America's greatest educational problem. Arkansas teacher, 

2: 1-3, December 1914. 
Deals with the rural school. 

1971. Duggan,M. L. Educational survey of Rabun County, Georgia . . underthe 

direction of the Department of education. [Atlanta] 1914. 48 p. illus. 8». 
No. 1 in a series of educational surveys of the counties of Georgia. 



OUBRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 11 

1972. Rural educator, vol. 4, no. 5, December 1914. (The rural school as a community 

center) 

Contains: 1. C. J. Galpin: The rural social center, a device for large scale constructive rural 
acquaintance. — 2. J. C. Muennan: The rural school as a community center. The community 
center plan in the state of Washington. — 3. Edna O. Clark: The country school as a social cen- 
ter. — 4. The school and "Back to the land." — 5. Lueco Gunter: The rural school as a social 
center. 

1973. Sargent, C. G. The rural and village schoola of Colorado. An eight-year 

survey of each school district, 1906-1913 inclusive. Fort Collins, Colo., 
Colorado agricultural college, 1914. 106 p. illus. 8". (Colorado agricultural 
college. Series xiv, no. 5) 

SECONDARY EDUCATION. 

1974. Alington, Cyril A. A schoolmaster's apology. London, New York [etc.] 

Longmans, Green and co., 1914. 207 p. 8°. 

An attempt to meet some of the commoner criticisms advanced against the public schools 
and the Church of England. It deals with the various subjects taught at English public schools 
and the methods of teaching them. 

1975. Beard, Frederica. Ethical standards in the high school. Educational 

review, 43: 444-51, December 1914. 

Replies to a questionnaire sent to "a score of reliable students belonging to schools in cities 
or towns scattered throughout the country from New England to the Mississippi." Questions 
involved student self-government, standards of honesty, etc. 

1976. Cook, William. A. A general survey of public high-school education in Colo- 

rado. Boulder, Colo., University of Colorado, 1914. 92 p. 8*. (University 
of Colorado bulletin, vol. xiv, no. 10. General series, no. 75. Education 
series, no. 3) 

1977. Hamilton, F. R. Why not high school students that work? Education, 35: 

241-47, December 1914. 

Thinks that a combiiiation of high school instruction and actual work could be established. 
Such a scheme will ten J " to vitalize and unify the educational forces." The student will com- 
prehend the connection between real work and study. "It will be the means of saving a large 
parcentago of the students who now leave the schools because of lack of interest, or on account 
of economic pressure." 

1978. Josselyn, Hom.er Walker. Survey of accredited high schools and profes- 

sional directory. Topeka, Kansas state printing office, 1914. 252 p. 12'. 
(University of Kansas. Bulletin, vol. 15, no. 16) 

Contains 35 charts showing the preparation, tenure, duties, etc., of teachers in Kansas high 
schools. 

1979. Judd, Charles H. Formalism in defining high school units. School review, 

22: 649-65, December 1914. 

Sees danger in the effort to standardize high schools. Apt to result in "a formal evaluation 
of school work which in the long run will utterly defeat the purposes for which the principle 
of standardization was evolved." Says the high schools should define the value of their units; 
both high schools and colleges should study the problem of the value of work done. 

1980. Rickard, G. E. High school students' descriptions of their methods of study. 

School review, 22: 673-77, December 1914. 
An e.xperiment made in Oakland city, Indiana. 

1981. Stout, Jolin Elbert. The high school; its function, oi^nization, and admin- 

istration; with introduction by L. D. Coffman. Boston, New York [etc.] 
D. C. Heath & co. [1914] xxiii, 322 p. 12». 

1982. Walker, N. W. Developing high schools to meet modem demands. North 

Carolina high school bulletin, 5: 135-46, October 1914. 
The rural high school situation in North Carolina. 



12 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

TEACHERS: TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL STATUS. 

1983. Balliet, Thomas M. Liberty in teaching. American teacher, 3: 146-48, 

December 1914. 
Address before the Teachers' league of New York city, October 23, 1914 

1984. Blue, Leonard A. New York state college for teachers. American educa- 

tion, 18: 143-49, November 1914. 

A historical and descriptive sketch of the institution first knowTi as the Albany normal school, 
then as the New York state normal college, and in 1914 christened by the Regents the New 
York state college for teachers. 

1985. Bolton, Frederick E. Professional growth during service. American school- 

master, 7: 413-15, Novemb'^'r 1914. 
Gives some suggestions for the improvement of teachers m service. 

1986. Some suggestions for the adjustment of teachers' salaries. American 

school board journal, 49: 10, 71, December 1914. 

1987. CantweU, J. W. The education of teachers. Texas school journal, 32: 15-16, 

December 1914. 

Advocates higher requirements for teachers. Sa. s " there would be fwer quitters if there weree 
better preparation, and consequently there would be greater success and satisfaction in the 
work." 

1988. Cook, John W. The organization and function of a practice school. American 

schoolmaster, 7: 385-97, November 1914. 

Address delivered before the Departmentof normal school of the National education association 
at St. Paul, Minn., July 8, 1914. 

1989. Engleman, J. O. A survey of entrance requirements and recent tendencies 

in the courses of study of the normal schools of the United States. Pedagogical 
seminary, 21: 532-58, December 1914. 

Bibliography: p. 557-5S. 

This study "is based upon data gathered, for the most part, from the catalogues of last year 
sent out by 118 state normal schools representing 44 diflej-ent states." 

1990. Harlan, Charles L. Why 239 Indiana class A teachers entered the teaching 

profession, and why 49 per cent of them expect to leave it. Educator-journal, 
15: 160-65, December 1914. 

Gives tables summarizing replies from a questionnaire. The tables show that the most im- 
poriant indticements which lead persons to enter the teaching profession are salary, a liking for 
the work, parents' desire, and desire for experience. The mo.st important reasons for giving up 
teaching are desire to try some other kind of work, poor pa> and dislike for teaching. 

1991. McConaughy , James L. Education courses in New England colleges. School 

review, 22: 686-91, December 1914. 

Says that the historical approach to education is of "interest and significance to the future 
teacher, but from such a course he will learn little that will be of direct professional value to him 
when he is facing a noisy high school class for the first time." 

1992. Palmer, George Herbert. What is a profession? Journal of education, 80: 

537-39, December 3, 1914. 

Selected from an address delivered In Albanj , October 22, before the University convocation, 
and published in full in University of the state of New York, Bulletin to the schools, no. 3, No- 
vember 2, 1914, p. 2. 

Deals specially with the profession of teaching. 

HIGHER EDUCATION. 

1993. Alexander, James W. A history of the University club of New York, 1865- 

1915. New York, Printed for the University club by Charles Scribner'e sons, 
19l5. xviii, 510 p. illus. 8°. 

1994. Brandon, Edgar E. The internado at the University of La Plata. Educa- 

tional review, 43: 514-19, December 1914. 

In 1910 the Universitj of La Plata, Argentina, abandoned the conventional mess hall and 
dormitory system of the Latin-American boarding school, and housed its students in homes, pre- 
sided over by married instructors very much like conditions at Eton, England. Great sucess has 
marked the experiment. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 13 

1995. Cooper, Clayton Sedg^ck. World-wide education. IV. Rhodes scholars 
and their responsibility. Educational foundations, 26: 199-208, December 
1914. 

The three preceding articles in the series were mentioned as items 1320, 1575, and 16^8 of this 
record. 

I99(j. Guerard, Albert-Leon. Une university en formation. L'Institut Rice de 
Houston (Etats-Unis). Revue internationale de reuseignement, 34: 195-99. 
September-October 1914. 

1997. Ha-wes, James A. The collegiate side shows. Educational review, 43: 433- 

43, December 1914. 

Criticises the undue prominence of college athletics, musical, and dramatic clubs, fraternities, 
etc. Says there must be some "definite policy adopted by the college authorities in regard to the 
scheme of education for their unaergraduates with less shifting of courses and constant change of 
attitude toward these questions." 

1998. Masseck, Clinton J. Some aspects of freshman knowledge. Forum, 52: 899- 

902, December 1914. 

Contrasts methods of instruction in American and Continental colleges and universities. 
Says that the American student is given knowledge; the Continental is " trained to seek knowledge 
for himself." 

SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION. 

1999. Association of district superintendents; New York. New York school 

inquiry. Reply of the Association of district superintendents of New York 
to certain findings and recommendations of Professor Frank M. McMurry and 
Professor Edward C. Elliott, prepared by a committee, ed. by Joseph S. Tay- 
lor, Pd. D. New York [For sale by J. S. Taylor] 1914. 116 p. 8». 

"The final conclusion of this review is that the whole inquiry with reference to the teaching 
and supervision of elementary schools is a set of opinions backed by guesses and assumptions." 

2000. Chancellor, William E. How to become a good school board member. Ameri- 

can school board journal, 49: 11-13, 70-71, December 1914. 

The author says that a good board member must not think that he knows all about American 
schools, but shoula try to seek at first hand all the information about his own schools, visiting 
them quietly and observing for himself. He should also be regular and punctual in his attend- 
ance upon board and committee meetings, and concentrate upon the business in question while 
at the meetings. Dr. Chancellor also gives some suggestions as to how the gooa board member 
can help the school superintendent. 

2001. Doughty, W. F. The county superintendent proposition. Texa.; school 

journal, 32: 11-12, 32-35, December 1914. 

Advocates the selection of the county superintendent of public instruction by the county 
board of education instead of by the people. Discusses particularly the ron(Jitions in Texas. 

2002. Fuller, A. C, jr. Time distribution in grade school subjects. Midland 

schools, 29: 114-17, December 1914. 

Gives a table to help superintendents who wish to know what is the right amount of time to 
devote to the various subjects, and what other school men are providing for their systems. 

2003. Missouri state teachers' association. The county school unit. [Columbia, 

Mo.? 1914] 27 p. 8°. 

Contains extracts from the report of the Committee on a larger school unit, appointed by the 
Missouri state teachers' association. 

2004. Rankin, A. W. Democracy in school administration. Elementary teacher, 

4: 1, 3, December 1914. 

2005. Thomburgh, W. B, Is your course adjusted to the capacity oi your pupils. 

School education, 34: 5, December 1914. 

'A survey of the schools of Owatonna, Miim. 'I'he general summary shows that 70.4% of the 
children were normal, 14.4% accelerated, and 13.2% retarded, indicating that the courses of study 
are finely adjusted to the capabilities of the masses— and as finely adjusted for the swift and 
the slow as a course may be, practically the same percentage of accelerated and retarded pupils 
being reported." — The Editor. 



14 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PtFBLICATIONS. 

2006. Wisconsin city superintendents' association. Report of Committee on 

the reorganization of the public school system on a six-six plan. Issued by 
C. P. Gary, state superintendent. Madison, Wis., Democrat printing com- 
pany, state printer, 1914. 11 p. 8*. 
Members of committee: H. L. Miller, Mrs. Mary D. Bradford, F. E. Converse. 

SCHOOL MANAGEMENT. 

2007. Bachman, Frank P. Variations in study standards. Elementary school 

journal, 15: 210-18, December 1914. 

Gives the tentative conclusion that "within a given school system study-standards vary with 
the school, the subject, the study-grade, and the teacher." Emphasizes the need of collecting 
such data. 

2008. Bagley, William Chandler. Principles justifying common elements in the 

school program. School and home education, 34: 119-31, December 1914. 

Read at the High school conference held at the University of Illinois, November 19, 1914. 

The author aims to show, first, that a certain amount of uniformity is essential for a reason 
more fimdamental than economy, second, that the justification of a certain measure of uni- 
formity furnishes one rather definite standard for selecting common elements, and third, that the 
essential uniformity may be insured without interfering unduly with desirable di-Ierentiation. 

2009. School discipline. New York, The Macmillan company, 1914. xiv, 

259 p. 12°. 

Endeavors to present in a concrete way the various steps that may be taken to establish a 
wholesome school "spii-it" that will reduce disciplinary difficulties to a minimum. To this 
end, most of the chapters deal rather with positive and non-coercive than with restrictive and 
repressive methods of treatment. 

2010. Drake, E. H. An interesting experiment. Elementary school journal, 15: 

219-22, December 1914. 

Describes an experiment made by the grade teachers of the Elkhart (Indiana) public schools 
during the past year " with what may be called a system of minimum-maximum assignments of 
lessons. The purpose of the system was to provide a course to meet the different abilities of 
diflerent children and thus to increase the promotion rate among them." 

2011. Hall-Ciuest, Alfred L. Supervised study. Virginia journal of education, 8: 

181-84, December 1914. 

2012. Kelly, F. J. Reliability of teachers' marks. Teaching, 1: 3-9, November 

1914. 

During the past year the writer has made a series of investigations relative to the variability oi 
teachers' marks. The important facts which the investigations disclosed are given in this article 
as a means of making clear the extent of variability among teachers' marks. 

2013. Sechrist, Frank K. Examinations and grading. Education, 35: 197-210, 

December 1914. 

A study undertaken "in the belief that errors could be graded, that if teachers knew the condi- 
tions imder which they were committed there would be substantial agreement as to their serious- 
ness." 

2014. WardeU, Harriet S, The work of a "self-activity class." Normal instructor 

and primary plans, 24: 35-36, 74, December 1914. 

"The problem of finding employment for pupils who finish tasks in advance of others of the 
class is an important one. In the issue of May 1914, Miss WardeU reported a plan called the 
' Self activity class ' that had been in operation a few months. A partial outline of the work given 
to this class was appended and an invitation extended by the author to teachers wishing to try 
out the plan to send for the complete outline. That many teachers availed themselves of the 
privilege, proving that there was a widespread interest iu the subject, is the reason for Miss War- 
deU's second article which provides a complete outline for one year of work." — Editor. 

2015. What poor attendance means. Journal of education, 80: 576-77, December 10, 

1914. 

Dr. Charles A. Wagner, commissioner of education in Delaware, has issued a pamphlet showing 
the results of an analytical study of school attendance made by him. The circular contains sug- 
gestions for impressing the child with the importance of attendance. These suggestions are 
quoted in this article. 



CUKRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 16 

SCHOOL HYGIENE AND SANITATION. 

2016. Broughton, Hugh. The open-air school. New York [etc.] Sir I Pitman & 

eons, ltd. [1914?] 188 p. illus. 12<>. 

2017. Dana, Charles L. School children not overworked. Teacher's journal, 14: 

182-84. November 1914. 

Gives portions of a talk by Dr. Charles L. Dana, professor of nervous diseases, Ck)mell university 
medical college, on the proposition to shorten school hours. 

2018. Hutt, C. W. Medical notes for school teachers. London, E. Arnold [1914?] 

122 p. 16°. 

2019. International congress on school hygiene. 4th, Buffalo, August 25-30, 

1913. Transactions. Ed. by Thomas A. Storey, with the assistance of 
Frederic A. Woll and Julian Park. [Buffalo, N. Y., Printed by the Courier 
CO. of Buffalo] 1914. 5 v. illus. 8". (Thomas A. Storey, secretary gen- 
eral, College of the city of New York) 

For contents, see this record for September 1914, item 1100. 

B020. Jahrbuch der schulgesundheitspflege ; hrsg. von dr. med. Moritz Fiirst. Jena, 
G. Fischer, 1914. 192 p. 12<>. 
Mil einem beiheft: Schulhygienischer notizkalender. 

2021. Kingsford, Leslie. School clinics. Parents' review (London") 25: 877-82, 

December 1914. 

Second article of a series. Discusses simplicity in administration and organization. Condi- 
tions in England. 

2022. Schulthess, Wilhelni. tjber riickgrats-verkrummungen, ihre ursachen und 

ihre behandlung. Monatsblatter fur die physische erziehung der jugend, 25: 
137^0, September 1914. 

Denies the existence of a distinct type of "school scoliosis." The sitting posture in the school- 
room merely gives opportunity for the development of previously existing weaknesses. ' 

SEX HYGIENE, 

2023. Hall, G. Stanley. Education and the social hygiene movement. Social 

hygiene, 1: 29-35, December 1914. 

Paper read at the meeting of the American social hygiene association and the Society of sani- 
tary and moral prophylaxis, New York city, October 9, 1914. 

2024. HaU, Winfield Scott. The relation of education in sex to race betterment. 

Social hygiene, 1: 67-80, December 1914. 

PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

202.5. Clark, Richard McCord. The department of physical education in prepara- 
tory schools and colleges. Physical training, 12: 26-35, November 1914. 

Graduating thesis of the Institute and training school of the Young men's Christian associa- 
tion, Chicago. 

Continued from a previous number, and to be continued in a later issue. 

2026. Ewerhardt, F. H. Gymnastics in relation to crippled children. American 
physical education review, 19: 563-67, November 1914. 
Read before the American physical education association, St. Louis, Mo., April 2, 1914. 

J027. Rathmann, G. G. Physical care and training of children in European 
schools. American physical education review, 19: 597-609, November 1914. 

Read at meeting of ths American physical education association, St. Louis, Mo., April 4, 1914. 

Tells what has been done for physical training in the schools of Germany, Austria, Switzer- 
land, Belgium, France, England, Sweden, and Denmark. 



16 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS. 

2028. Hamner, Lee F. and Perry, Clarence Arthur. Recreation in Springfield, 

Illinois; a section of the Springfield survey. New York city, Department 
of recreation, Russell Sage foundation [1914] 133 p. illus. 8". 

2029. Universal recognition of the value of play. Playground, 8: 314-30, December 

1914. 
Gives the views of a number of prominent men on the value of play. 

SOCIAL ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

2030. Carlton, Frank T. Social and occupational studies. To what extent do 

social ideals control occupational studies. Religious education, 9: 592-99, 
December 1914. 

MORAL EDUCATION. 

2031. Andrews, Fannie Fern. Thewar: what should be said aboutit in the schools? 

Boston, American school peace league, 1914. 14 p. 8". 
Also in N. E. A. bulletin, 3: 23-28, December 1914. 

2032. Cutten, George Barton. Moral influence of the curriculum. Religious 

education, 9: 520-27, December 1914. 
Takes up the various studies in the college curriculum, and shows the moral value of each. 

2033 Mayer, Heinrich.. Kinderideale; eine experimentell-padagosische studie zur 
religions- und moralpadagogik. Kempten und Miinchen, J. Kosel, 1914. 
viii, 155 p. diagrs. 8". 

2034. Taylor, Charles K. Moral education — the history of an experiment. Edu- 

cation, 35: 220-30, December 1914. 

Results of an experiment liegun, a few years ago, in two of Philadelphia's smaller public schools. 
Facilities and influences of a school in direct character-making. 

RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 

2035. Atheam, Walter S. Teacher training standards. Religious education, 

9: 541-57, December 1914. 

"At a meeting ol the Educational committee of the International Sunday school association 
held in Chicago in October 1913, Prof. W. S. Atheam was selected as a committee of one to inves- 
tigate present conditions and present a plan lor the revision of the teacher training standards 
now in operation. The result of tbis investigation and the propo'^ed revision of standards is 
presented in this report." 

2036. Crafts, Wilbur F. Bible in schools plans of many lands. Documents gath- 

ered and compiled for Council of church boards of education, 1914. Washing- 
ton, D. C, Illustrated Bible selections commission, 1914. 192 p. illus. 8". 
Describes the various plans of relijjious instruction practiced in American and foreign schools 
Bbund with this is Bil'jle stories and poems from Creation to the Captivity, Superintendent's 
edition. 351 p. illus., plates. 

2037. Fitch, Albert Parker. Religion and the undergraduate. Harvard gradu- 

ates' magazine, 23: 209-14, December 1914. 

Discusses the conditions at Harvard, where although half the student body is religiously 
disposed, only a small percentage of it is reached. 

2038. Forster, F. W. The foundations of Christian education. Educational titnea 

(London) 67: 532-34, December 1, 1914. 

Lecture delivered at the ISth German evangelical congress, Cassel, 1913. Translated by 
S. E. Howe; To be continued. 

2039. International Sunday-school association. Commission for the study 

of the adolescent period. The teens and the rural Sunday school, being 
the second volume of the report of the Commission on adolescence, author- 
ized by the San Francisco convention of the International Sunday school 
association . . . Ed. by John L. Alexander. New York [etc.] Association 
press, 1914. 151 p. 12». 

2040. Lawrence, Wniiam. Religious liberty and religious education. Conatructive 

quarterly, 2: 868-73, December 1914. 



J 



CUEEENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 17 

MANUAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING. 

2041. Brown, John B. The Interlaken school ior young men. Indian school 

journal, 15: 175-78, December 1914. 
Secondary school at Laporte, Indiana which prepares students for life-work. Iliu.strated. 

2042. Cheney, Howell. A Wisconsin experiment in vocational education and 

some of its lessons. Elementary school iournal, 15: 191-209, December 1914. 
The Wisconsin system was investigated by experts. Writer sums up the points of apreoment. 
Says that most of the teachers are not qualified lor vocational cr trade work. 

2043. Davenport, Eugene. Vocational education and the state. School and 

home education, 34: 131-33, December 1914. 

Abstract of a paper read before the meetini; of the city superintendents and school boards 
at the University of Illinois, November 19, 191-1. 

The author does not think a separate system of vocational schools is advisable or necessary. 
Advocates the unit system tor liberal and vocational public cdncation. 

2044. Dewey, John. A policy of industrial education. New republic, 1: 11-12, 

December 19, 1914. 

Author says thrvt the proljlem in this country is primarily an educational one — that of the 
reortianization of the public school to meet the changed conditions due to the industrial revo- 
lution. 

2045. An experimental summer industrial school. American school board journal, 

49: 19, 66, December 1914. 

Tells of a free school for retarded boys organized during the past summer under the direction 
of Mr. Frank M. Lcavitt, professor of industrial education in the School of education at the 
Universicy of Cliicagn. 

2046. Hasty, Philip S. Some conclusions with reference to prevocational work 

in the public schools. Manual training and vocational education, 16:208-13, 
December 1914. 

2047. Leavitt, Frank M. Classroom methods and devices. Elementary school 

journal, 15:185-90, December 1914. 

Introducing a series of articles on "the adaptation of regular school subjects to the needs of 
prevocational boys." 

2048. Lorentz, Friedrich. Gewerbehygienische belehrungen an fach- und fort- 

bildungsschulen . Zeitschrift fiir schulgesundheitspflege, 27:613-18, no. 9, 
September 1914. 

Demands instruction in hygienic principles and processes of the prevention of occupational 
diseases. In the continuation school the instruction should be given in connection with the 
couises on industrial materials and processes. A course of studies, covering three years, is 
suggested. 

2049. Lull, Herbert G. The relation of vocational to academic instruction. Man- 

ual training and vocational education, 16:201-7, December 1914. 

"Approaching his subject historically, [the author I concludes that the vocational significanco 
of manual training is the source of its educational value, that manual training is becoming voea- 
tionalized, that vocational training is outgrowing its narrow trade character, and that the two 
will merge in the high school." 

2050. Meek, Charles S. The coordination of industrial studies with traditional 

subjects in the high school curriculum. School review, 22:666-72, Decem- 
ber 1914. • 

Conditions in high school of Boise, Idaho. Introduction of industrial education into the cur- 
riculum ha? not crowded out cultural education, but has increased registrations in strictly cul- 
tural subjects. 

2051. Rapeer, Louis W. Industrial hygiene and vocational education. Educa^ 

tional review, 43:467-74, December 1914. 

Makes a strong plea for the study of industrial hygiene. Says that hygienic education is 
an indispensable phase of vocational training. Millions cf workers suffer from lowered vitality 
and other ills, and yet educators "clamor for the costly tools for a narrow type of vocational 
training, " while at the same time they neglect instruction in health conditions of workers. Ger- 
many, England, and Austria have accomplished much in medical examinations and follow-up 
work. The Manhattan trade school for girls, New York city, is meeting the urgent necessity 
for such sanitary and corrective work. 



18 CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

2052. Ricketts, Palmer C. History of Rensselaer polytechnic institute, 1824-1914. 

[2d ed.] New York, J, Wiley and sons, 1914. xiii, 269 p. illus. S". 

2053. Spiihler, J. Die wirtschaftliche aiifgabe der schule. Schweizerische lehrer- 

zeitung, 59:367-69, 376-77, September 26, October 3, 1914. 

Industrial and vocational training, vopational jruidance, and chic education are the impera- 
tive need of the schools. Quotes from Treitschke: -'Not ideas— action determines the destinies 
of nations." 

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE. 

2054. Davis, Jesse Buttrick. Vocational and moral guidance. Boston, New York 

[etc.] Ginn and company [1914] viii, 303 p. 12". 

The book recogni/.fc.s the intensely nractical as well as the theoretical aspects of the subject, 
and outlines actual methods of procedure— with defij'ite suggestions from public-school teachers, 
librarians, and Y. M. C. A. secretaries who have done the work; with charts, outlines, and card 
systems that have proved valuable, and with suggested reading lists for counselors and for 
young people. 

AGRICULTURE, HOME GARDENING. 

2055. Benson, O. H. Boys' and girls' club work. Journal of education, 80:509-11, 

November 26, 1914. 
Home garden, field crop, and canning. 

2056. Hummel, W. G. Utilization of land by high schools teaching agriculture. 

University of California chronicle, 16:431-42, October 1914. 

Discusses the school farm and its proper equipment, •'^ays that the school farm is "one of the 
most effective means of promoting the popularity of high-school agriculture." 

2057 True, A. C. Address of the president of the Association of American agri- 
cultural colleges and experimental stations. Science, n. s., 40:757-66, 
November 27, 1914. 

Says that more attention should be given to perlccting collegiate courses of instruction for 
the general body of agricultural students, also to improving courses for teacher tiaining for the 
regular work of the colleges, for extension work, and for secondary schools. 

HOME ECONOMICS. 

2058. Arnold, Sarah Louise. Fundamental conceptions of home economics. 

Journal of home economics, 6:421-29, December 1914. 

Address presented at the seventh amiual meeting of the American home economics associa- 
tion, Cleveland, 1914. 

2059. Bice, Melvin. The practical operation of school lunchrooms. American 

school board journal, 49:17-18, December 1914. 

2060. Snedden, David. Current problems in home economics. Journal of home 

economics, 6: 430-37, December 1914. 

"Presented at the seventh annual meeting of the American home economics association, 
Cleveland, 1914. Dr. Sneddon's address is given in part." 

Dr. Sneddon's views of future social conditions and criticisms of current methods of instruo- 
tion. 

PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION. 

2061. Harrington, Thomas F. Medical problems in education. The responsi- 

bility of the medical profession. Boston medical and surgical journal, 171: 
839-45, December 3, 1914. 
Discusses the findings of medical inspectors of schools. Work in Chicago, Boston, etc. 

2062. Elirk, Edward C. The tendenciea in dental education. Dental cosmos, 56: 

1297-1302, December 1914. 

Advocates the necessity of enlarging the scope and improving the character of the special 
dental curriculum so as to adequately meet modern educational demands. 



CUBBENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 19 

2063. Lee, Frederic S. The relation of the medical sciences to clinical medicine. 

Journal of the American medical association, 63:2083-88, December 12, 1914. 

Importance of science to the medical student. Says that teachers of the clinical subjects fail 

if they do not hold to "a rigid scientific ideal in their outlook over the details of practical 

medicine." 

20ft4. Idle, WiUiara Minor. Legal education and admission to the bar in the South- 
em states. An address delivered before the Kentucky state bar association 
at Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, July 8, 1914. Louisville, Ky., Westerfield- 
Bonte CO., inc. [1914] 23 p. 8». 

CIVIC EDUCATION. 

2065. Dunn, Arthur WiUiam. The commimity and the citizen. Rev. and enl. 

Boston [etc.] D. C. Heath & co. [1914] xvi, 313 p. illus. 12». 
Introduction for teachers: p. vii-xvi. 

2066. Hill, Mabel. The teaching of civics. Boston, New York [etc.] Houghton 

MifHin company [1914] x, 146p. 12». (Riverside educational monographs, 
ed. by H. Suzzallo) 

Offers a series of very concrete suggestions, to aid teachers in the application of the "vital 
principles of the new teaching of civics." 

2067. Jenks, Jeremiah. W. University influence on civic life. Religious educa- 

tion, 9: 515-19, December 1914. 

Discusses the subject under the following headings: Research; Counsel to the public; Teach- 
ing; Practice, and Influence upon citizens. 

2068. National conference on universities and public service. The college 

and the city. A series of addresses delivered at the National conference on 
universities and public eer\-ice, held under the auspices of Committee on 
practical training for public service of the American political science asso- 
ciation. Ed., with an introduction, by Edward A. Fitzpatrick, executive 
secretary of the conference. 75 p. 8». 

Reprinted from Proceedings of first National conference on imiversities and public service, 
New York, May 12, 13, 1914. 

Contents.— 1. J. P. Mitchel: The college and the city.— 2. R. F. Cutting: Democracy and a 
trained public service. — 3. F. G. Hicks: An ideal municipal university. — 4. C. A. Beard: New 
York as a political science laboratory.— 5. S. M. Lindsay: New York as a sociological labora- 
tory.— 6. Albert Shiels: The opportunity of the College of the city of New York.— 7. J. W. 
Jenks: What a college of administration might do for New York. — 8. S. P. Duggan: The College 
of the city of New York and community service.— 9. R. S. Binkerd: A now educational devolop- 
ment.— 10. P. R. Kolbe: A demonstration of university and governmental cooperation: the 
next step. — Appendix: Proposed plans for training schools for public service. 

EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 

2069. Maynard, Constance L. From early Victorian schoolroom to university. 

Nineteenth century, 76: 1060-73, November 1914. 

Hio'her education of women in England. Advantages derived from a collegiate education: 
influence on character, etc. 

2070. A notable experiment in co-education. World's work (London) 24: 578-88, 

November 1914. 
Work at "Bedales," England. A plea for co-education. Illustrated. 

2071. Sturm, Marie. Die frauenschule und der gebildete mittelstand. Frauen- 

bildung, 13: 433-37, 9. heft, 1914. 

Suggests a reconstruction of the Prussian 'frauenschiilen," which have not been as successfol 
as had been anticipated. 

2072. Van Kleeck, Mary. Working girls in evening schools; a statistical study. 

New York, Survey associates, inc., 1914. xi, 252 p. illus. 12». (Ru&sell 
Sage foundation publication) 

Based on a card questioimaire answered by more than I3,t)00 working girls attending pabIJa 
erening schools In New York city. 



20 CUEHENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

ORIENTALS. 

2073. Carpenter, J. E. An ancient Buddhist university. Hibbert journal, 13: 

175-89, October 1914. 

B istory and work of an institution at Chang'au, China, founded in 629 A. D., by Yuan Chwang. 
Philosophy of Buddhism. 

2074. Iiobingier, Charles S. America's torcli-b earing in Asia. American review 

of reviews, 50: 714-17, December 1914. 
Describes American mission schools in China, India and Philippines. Illustrated. 

2075. Straus, Oscar S. Americans in Turkey; their notable work for education. 

American review of reviews, 50: 710-13, December 1914. 

Popular illustrated article on American educational institutions in Turkey. Influence of 
Robert college. 

DEFECTIVE AND DELINQUENT CHILDREN. 

2076. Anderson, V. V. The laboratory in the study and treatment of crime. Bos- 

ton medical and surgical journal, 171: 803-8, November 26, 1914. 

Advocates the establishment of criminological laboratories in the municipal courts of our larger 
cities to furnish " such a diagnosis of the criminal from psychological, neurological and sociological 
points of view, as might be of immediate practical aid to the judge who must sentence the defend- 
ant before the bar." Cites cases of interest, particularly among school children. 

2077. Binet, Alfred and Simon, Th. Mentally defective children. Authorized tr. 

by W. B. Drummond; with an appendix containing the Binet-Simon tests of 
intelligence, by Margaret Drummond; an introduction by Prof. Alexander 
Darroch. New York, Longmans, Green & co.; London, E. Arnold, 1914. 
xi, 180 p. 12°. 

2078. Cummins, Robert A. A study of defective pupils in the public schools of 

Tacoma, Wash. Psychological clinic, 8: 153-69, November 15, 1914. 

2079. Fraser,Kate. Feeble-minded children . . . School hygiene (London) 5: 213- 

223, November 1914. 

Concluded from October number of School hygiene, p. 183. Mental deficiency in school chil- 
dren, with special reference to syphilis as a causative factor. Investigations by means of the Was- 
sermann test. Gives list of references. 

2080. HiU, David S. An experimental study of delinquent and destitute boys in 

New Orleans, and notes concerning preventive and ameliorative measures in 
the United States. New Orleans, Commission council, 1914. 130 p. illus., 
charts. 8". 

2081. Petersen, Anna M. and DoU, E. A. Sensory discrimination in normal and 

feeble-minded children. Training school bulletin, 11: 110-18, 135-44, No- 
vember, December, 1914. 
An experimental study of discrimination of lifted weights in relation to mental age. 

2082. Schauer, Richard. "Die familie Kallikak;" ein beitrag zum stammesge- 

Bchichtlichen verstandnis des einzelmenschen. Padagogische zeitung, 39: 
714-16, September 24, 1914. 
A review and discussion of Dr. Henry Herbert Goddard's book on the Kallikak family. 

2083. West side studies, carried on under tlie direction of Pauline Goldmark. Boyhood 

and lawlessness. The neglected girl, by Ruth S. True. New York, Survey 
associates, inc., 1914. xix, 215, 143 p. illus. 120. rRussell Sage founda- 
tion publication) 

EDUCATION EXTENSION. 

2084. Cooley, Edwin G. Bishop Grundtvig and the people's high schools. Educa- 

tional review, 43: 452-66, December 1914. 
Educational labors of Grundtvig in Denmark. RotIaws work and ideals of the folk high 

schools. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 21 

LIBRARIES AND MUSEUMS. 

2085. Bostwick, Arthur E., ed. The relationship between the Ubrary and the public 

school . Reprints of papers and addresses. White Plains, N. Y., and New 
York city, The H. W. Wilson company, 1914. 331 p. 12<». 

A collection of "classic" paper; by various American librarians and others, with brief intro- 
ductions by the editor. The authors represented are Josephine A. Rathbone, C. F. Adams, jr. 
W. E. Foster, S. S. Green, Melvil Dewey, W. H. Brett, G. W. Peckham, W. R. Eastman, 
Lutie E. Stearns, Linda A. Eastman, C. A. McMurry, J. C. Dana, F. M. Crunden, H. L. Elmen- 
dorf, MathUde C. Ford, Annie Carroll Moore, EflSie L. Power, Irene Warren, May H. Prentice, 
Linda M. Clatworthy, David Felmley, Mary D. McCurdy, W. D. Johnston, and Elizabeth Q. 
Baldwin. 

2086. Connolly, Louise. The educational value of museums . . . ed. and with an 

•introduction by J. C. Dana. Newark, N. J., The Newark museum associa- 
tion, 1914. 73 p. 8«. 

2087. Day, Mary Bostwick and Wilson, Elisabeth Kissick. Suggestive outlines 

on children's Uterature, for the teachers of Southern Illinois. Carbondale, 
111., Southern Illinois state normal university, 1914. 88 p. 8*. 

2088. Johnston, William Da-w^son. The Ubrary and history study. Library jour- 

nal, 39: 883-86, December 1914. 
Read at the meeting of the Minnesota educational association, St. Paul, October 23, 1914. 

2089. Minnesota educational association. Library equipment for teaching history 

in Minnesota high schools. Report of the committee of five appointed by the 
history round table of the Minnesota educational aasociation in 1913. Winona 
normal school, 11: 1-27, November 1914. 

2090. Parker, S. R. and Hall, Mary E, What a high school Ubrary should do and 

how it should do it. In New York (City). Sixteenth annual report of the 
city superintendent of schools, 1913-1914. Reports on high schools for the 
year ending July 31, 1914. Presented to the Board of education on November 
25, 1914. p. 43-50. 

BUREAU OF EDUCATION: RECENT PUBLICATIONS. 

2091. Educational directory, 1914-15. Washington, 1914. 163 p. (Bulletin, 1914, 

no. 43^ 

2092. Library- instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools; compiled by 

Henry R. Evans. Washington, 1914. 38 p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 34) 

2093. Report on the work of the Bureau of education for the natives of Alaska, 1912-13. 

Washington, 1914. 62 p. plates, map. (BuUetin, 1914, no. 31) 

2094. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany; by Charles H. 

Judd. Washington, 1914. 8Q p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 35) 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note.— With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
In coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmann. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2 Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James K. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. I>ist of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur Ty. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

♦No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
*No. S. Statistics of State universities and other iiisUtutions of higher education partially supported by tlie 

State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the olTices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
*No. 3. Daily meals of school cliildren. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of exfie- 

rience, salaries. Edward L. Thorndike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1905!. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1907. 
*No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classifled list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
*No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

*No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

*No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion -n the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
♦No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 50 cts. 
tNo. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 

I 



n BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliopraphy of ;cienc teaching. Sets. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for firaduate study in apriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in serviCe. William C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report ol the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. U cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census cf schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
fNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools o^ collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bililiography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 190S-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system ol China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certiilcates issued under general State laws and regulations. Harlan Updegraff. 20 cts. 
No. 19. Statistics oi State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

♦No. 1. A course ofstudy for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F. Mutchler and W.J. Craig, octs, 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 6. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
^ *No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 
*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. 5 cts. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12. 10 cts. 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrick. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics, No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
*No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
*No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. 5 cts. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Hai'lan Updegraff and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 

No. 23. Special collections in liljraries in the United States. W. Dawson Johnston and Isadora G. Madge. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. HI. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-1911. 

No. 27. History ol public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
*No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 ct5. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Chas. Qoldzlher. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
*No. 31. Educational dnectory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 5 cts. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
*No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 
♦No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. IS cts. 
♦No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 6. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. Ul 

*No. 6. Agricultural instruction in high schools. C. H. Eobison and F, B. Jenks. lOots. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Klngsley. 15 ct?. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

fNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

fNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

JNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the eflRciency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

*No. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

fNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts, 

*No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
*No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record ol current educational publications June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States Georg Kerschensteiner. 

5 cts. 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B Daniel. 5 ct:. 
fNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

♦No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
*No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
♦No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 
•fNo. 33. Montlily record of ciurent educational publications, September, 1913. 
*No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
*No. 35. A list of books suited to a hicrh-school library. 15 cts. 
*No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
*No. 38. Eeconomy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39 Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmann. 
♦No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 

No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
♦No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day: material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
♦No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

♦No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyas. 10 cts. 
♦No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and Adams Phillips. 

No 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 
♦No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts 
♦No. 52. Sanitary schooLhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications December 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, Oct. !, 1909, to Oct. 1, 1912. .lames C. 

Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 

No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kan del. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibhography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

♦No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 
No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 
No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfield. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 
No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. R. W Stimson. 
No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 
No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1914. 
No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 
No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 

Royal B. Famum. 
No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 
No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flaimagan. 
No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 
No.J9. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 
No 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 
No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 
No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W Foght. 
No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 
No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 
No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 
No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 
No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 
No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of niral schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 
No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 
No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. I. Walkley. 
No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 
No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 
No. 36. Education for the home— Part I. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 37. Education for the home — Part II. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Benjamin R. Andrews. 
No. 40. Care of the health ot boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 
No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 
No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications December 1914. 
No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. MonahaH. 
No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 
No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 
No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 
No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 
No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural school teachers. H. W. Foght. 
No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 

No, 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN. 1915, NO. 3 WHOLE NUMBER 627 

MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT 
EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS 

COMPILED BY THE LIBRARY DIVISION OF THE 
BUREAU OF EDUCATION, UNDER THE DIREC- 
TION OF JOHN D. WOLCOTT, CHIEF OF DIVISION 



FEBRUARY, 1915 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAT BE PEOCUEED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT 07 DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

W.^HINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

5 CENTS PER COPY 



MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT EDUCATIONAL 

PUBLICATIONS. 



Contents. — Introductory notes — Educational history and biography — Current educational conditions — 
Pedaj,ogics and didactics — Educational psychology; Child study — Special subjects of curriculum — Kinder- 
garten and primary school— Rural education— Secondary education — Teachers: Training and professional 
status— Higher education— School administration— School management— School architectiu-e- School 
hygiene and sanitation— Sex hygiene — Physical training — Flay and playgrotmds — Social aspects of educa- 
tion — Moral and religious education— Manual and vocational training — Vocational guidance — Home eco- 
nomics—Commercial education— Nurse training— Civic education— MiUtary training— Education of In- 
dians — Defective and delinquent children — Libraries and reading — Bureau of Education: Recent publica- 
tions — New periodicals — Bulletin of the Bureau of Education. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTES. 

The following is a selection of representative books and articles 
listed in the present bulletin, the numbers in parentheses referring 
to the numbers of the full entries: Aurner, History of education in 
Iowa (1); Butte school survey report (6); Chapman, Individual 
differences in ability and improvement (16); Freeman, Teaching of 
handwriting (34); Claxton, The American rural school (56); Dabney, 
The municipal university (76) ; Coffman, The American school super- 
intendent (84); Curtis, Education through play (104); Gladden, 
Religion and schools (114); Durell, Fundamental sources of efficiency 
(121); National conference on universities and public service, Pro- 
ceedings (134); Schoff, The wayward child (143). 

A new series of item numbers, to cover publications entered durmg 
1915, begins in the present issue of the record, and will continue for 
one year, endmg m the bulletin for January, 1916. An index to the 
record from February, 1914, to January, 1915, inclusive, comprising 
the 1914 entries, is now m preparation, in order to facihtate the use 
of these bulletins as an annual bibUography of education for 1914. 

Only publications of the Bureau of Education are available for 
free distribution by this office. All others here listed may ordinarily 
be obtained from their respective publishers, either directly or through 
a dealer, or, in the case of an association publication, from the secre- 
tary of the issuing organization. 

Books, pamphlets,, etc., intended for inclusion in this record should 
be sent to the library of the Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 

3 



4 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

EDUCATIONAL HISTORY. 

1. Aurner, Clarence Ray. History of education in Iowa. Iowa City, la., State 

historical society of Iowa, 1914. vols. 1, 2. 8°. 

2. Boyd, William K. Some phases of educational history in the South since 1865. 

In Studies in Southern history and politics, inscribed to William Archibald 
Dunning, Ph. D., LL. D., Lieber professor of history and political philosophy 
in Columbia university, by his former pupils the authors. New York, Colum- 
bia university press, 1914. p. 259-87. 

Contains sections on The rise of public school systems, Changes in higher education, and The 
education of the negro. 

3. Fitzpatrick, Frank A. The development of the course of study in American 

schools. Educational review, 43: 1-19, January 1915. 

An historical resume of the growth and development of the elementarj- schools of Boston, from 
1647 to 188.5, showing courses of study. 

4. Mulgrew, Frank. A real Dotheboys Hall. Cornhill magazine (London) 37: 

818-30, December 1914. 

Describes a school in Yorkshire, called Eden Hall, kept by Richard Robinson and Mr. Aislabie, 
that was the counterpart of the Dotheboys Hall of Charles Dickens' story. Joshua Walmsley, 
who attended the school in the year 1807, has left us a graphic account of the treatment he received . 

CURRENT EDUCATIONAL CONDITIONS. 

5. Brahn, Max. Padagogische neuwertungen durch den krieg. Archiv f iir pada- 

gogik. I. teil. Die padagogische praxis, 3: 2-9, November 1914. 

The effects of the war will be: 1. Even greater emphasis upon the technical sciences. 2. Serious 
reflection upon the final ends of personal and civic life. 3. A heightened sense of ' ' the significance 
of nationality, the feeling for the unity of the nation. " The " eLnheitsschule " wiU emerge. Civic 
education will receive a strong impetus. 4. Education through the instrumentality of the " arbeits- 
schule" will lay greater emphasis upon independent and productive activity. 

6. Butte, Mont. Survey commission. Report of a survey of the school system 

of Butte, Montana. Submitted to the Board of school trustees, June 2, 1914. 
[Butte? Miner print, 1914] ix, 163 p. plates, plans, fold, tables, diagrs. 8°. 

George D. Strayer, director of the survey. 

7. Cantilo, Jose Luis. La desorientaci6n argentina. Monitor de la educaci6n 

comun, 51: 254-66, November 30, 1914. 

Says that to take her rightful place among the great powers of the world, the Argentine Republic 
must reorganize and improve her educational system, modeling it upon that of the leading European 
nations and that of the United States. 

8. Deyoe, Albert M. Public school activities in Iowa. Midland schools, 29: 

147-53, January 1915. 
Annual address before the Iowa state teachers' association, November S, 1914. 

9. Eliot, Charles William. Educational evolution. School and society, 1: 1-8, 

January 2, 1915. 

Address on the occasion of the inauguration of John H. Finley, as Commissioner of education of 
the state of New York. 

10. Quebec (Province) Department of public instruction. Education in the 

province of Quebec. Quebec, Department of public instruction, 1914. 
130 p. 8°. 

"Prepared by Dr. G. W. Parmelee, the English seiretary of the Department of public instnic- 
tion, with the collaboration of Mr. J. C. Sutherland." * 

11. Vitale, Ferruccio. Education in Italy. Home progress, 4: 817-21, January 

1915. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 5 

PEDAGOGICS AND DIDACTICS. 

12. Allison, Samuel B. Notes on Bergsonian pedagogy. Educational bi-monthly, 

9: 97-113, December 1914. 

13. Bagley, W. C. The "informational" subjects again: the large value of "points 

of view" and "mental perspectives." School and home education, 34: 166-70, 
January 1915. 

14. Keys, Florence V. Academic superstition and democracy. Yale review, 

4: 378-90, January 1915. 

An argument for more democracy in academic education. Upon the education of youth depends 
the stability of our social order. Presents an interesting study of the advancement of women's 
education. 

15. The passing of the educated man. Unpopular review, 3: 76-87, January-March 

1915. 

A plea for a more comprehensive education. Deprecates the latest developments of our educa- 
tional system, where not only are vocational subjects more and more included, but "the vocational 
interpretation is put upon even the most theoretical studies." Out of such a conception of educa- 
tion does "not grow great philosophy, nor great literature, nor a great system of ethics." 

EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY; CHILD STUDY. 

16. Chapman, James Crosby. Individual differences in ability and improvement 

and their correlations. New York city, Teachers college, Columbia uni- 
versity, 1914. iii, [1], 45 p. diagrs. 8°. (Teachers college, Columbia 
university. Contributions to education, no. 63) 

Pub. also as thesis (Ph. D.) Columbia university, 1914. 
Bibliography: p. 4.5. 

17. Hill, David Spence. Annual report to the superintendent of schools. Meas- 

urements in elementary education. New Orleans, Division of educational 
research, Department of superintendence of public schools, September 1914. 
71 p. fold, tables. 8°. 

Contents.— I. Studies of the progress of 36,284 school children in New Orleans and related 
questions. — II. The educational laboratory. — III. Concerning industrial education. 

18. Hylla, Erich. Meumanns vorschlage zur ausgestaltung der Binetschen intel- 

hgenzpriifungsmethode. Archiv fiir padagogik. II. teil. Die padagogische 
forschung, 3: 16-22, November 1914. (To be concluded.) 

A critical review of the second edition of Meumann's " Vorlesungen zur einfiihrung in die experi- 
mentelle padagogik." Points out the lack of sufficient emphasis upon the methodology of the 
tests. 

19. Koch, Katrina. The development of a vocabulary in the adolescent. Educa- 

tional review, 43: 68-73, January 1915. 

20. Lowe, L. A. Discipline and indi^'iduality. Child-welfare magazine, 9: 155-58, 

January 1915. 
To be continued. 
Discusses both mental and moral discipline. 

21 . Manuel, Herschel T. The use of an objective scale for grading handwriting. 

Elementary school journal, 15: 269-78, January 1915. 

Results obtained from a study of the Ayres measuring scale for handwriting, from "the view- 
point of the variability in the grades assigned to the same writing when the scale is used." 

22. Petersen, Anna M. and Doll, E. A. Sensory discrimination in normal and 

feeble-minded children. Training school bulletin, 11: 135-44, December 1914. 

References, p. 144. 

This is the second and final instalment of the study of sensory discrimination. The fust instal- 
ment appeared in the November number of this Bulletin. 



6 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

23. Phillips, Byron A. The Biuet tests applied to colored children. Psycho- 

logical clinic, 8: 190-96, December 15, 1914. 

In summarizing, the author says that "the colored children are retarded to a much greater 
extent both pedagogically and psychologically than the white children; and secondly, that the 
white children are accelerated to a much greater extent than the colored children." 

24. Plntner, Rudolf and Paterson, Donald G. Experience and the Binet- 

Simon tests. Psychological clinic, 8: 197-200, December 1914. 

25. Starch, Daniel. The measurement of efficiency in reading, writing, spelling 

and English. Madison, Wis., The College book store, 1914. 33 p. diagrs. 

26. Thomdike, Edward L. The significance of the Binet mental ages. Psycho- 

logical clinic, 8: 185-89, December 15, 1914. 

27. Waldo, Kate Douglas. Tests in reading in Sycamore schools. Elementary 

school jom-nal, 15: 251-68, January 1915. 

Says that "great variation exists in reading ability between different individuals in the same 
grade, and many children ui lower grades are much better readers than the average of the upper 
grades." Gives bibliography. 

28. Witham, Einest C. A minimum standard for measuring geography. American 

school board journal, 50: 13-14, 66, January 1915. 

"This article contains the test for measuring sixth grade geography, or the geography of the 
United States, together with some interesting results obtained from the use of the test." 

SPECIAL SUBJECTS OF CURRICULUM. 

29. Barber, Fred D. The present status and real meaning of general science. 

School review, 23: 9-24, January 1915. 

Thinks that science teaching in the high schools has become too highly specialized. Makes a 
plea for organized courses in general science. Says: "If general science is to be of educational value, 
it must consist of well-organized units of Instruction." Data based upon a questionnaire sent to 
180 schools, which offer a course called general science. 

30. Benjamin, C. H. Spanish for engineering students. Bulletiii of the Society 

for the promotion of engineering education, 5: 37^8, December 1914. 

CJonsiders the advantages of Spanish as a substitute for French or German for engineering stu- 
dents. 

31. Cooper, Lane. The teaching of English and the study of the classics. Edu- 

cational review, 43: 37-47, January 1915. 

Discusses the mental discipline derived from a study of the classics. When imbued with the 
spirit of Greek and Latin verse, a freshman is "in some measure armed against the Insidious attacks 
of bad taste" as exempUfled in much of English literatiu'e. 

32. Coulter, John M. The mission of science in education. School review, 23: 1-8, 

January 1915. 

Recommends extending the time given to science instruction, so that its natural imits may be 
developed, and also better teaching all along the line. Declares that science teaching in the high 
schools has not been a failure. 

33. Downing, Elliot R. Some data regarding the teaching of zoology in secondary 

schools. School science and mathematics, 15: 36-43, January 1915. 

Gives information obtained from answers to a questionnaire sent to about 300 superintendents 
of schools. 

34. Freeman, Frank N. The teaching of handwriting. Boston, New York [etc.] 

Houghton Mifflin company [1914] x, 157 p. illus. 12®. (Riverside educa- 
tional monographs, ed. by H. Suzzallo.) 

35. Greenberg, Morris. The New York city high school art exhibition. School- 

arts magazine, 14: 314-22, January 1915. 

This remarkable exhibition, which was held in New York city on October 10, 17, and 19, 1914 
was a revelation to the public, not only from the standpoint of art but on accoimt of the hi^ 
technical quality displayed. Illustrated. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS, 7 

36. Hahn, H. H. Emphasis in teaching United States history . Middle-wect school 

review, 7: 14-15, December 1914. 

Gives four tables showing where text-book makers place the emphasis in American history. 
Thirteen text-books were examined to show the number of pages devoted to each period in AmerJ- 
caji history. 

37. Humphries, Florence Y. Effort vs. accomplishment. English journal, 3: 603- 

11, December 1914. 

A discussion of the question of uniformity in the grading of English papers. Thinks papers 
should be graded on accomplishment rather than on effort. 

38. John, Louise. The place of Latin in the modem educational scheme. Ohio 

educational monthly, 64: 4-9, January 1915. 

This is written by one who has taught Latin in the high schools for 15 years. She says that 
Latin shoitld not be offered earlier than in the thii-d year of the course, and that then it should 
be an elective. 

39. Kepner, W. H. Placing science courses in the cumculum of secondary schools. 

Virginia journal of education, 8: 241-45, January 1915. 

40. Lang, Helen R, Lost motion in the teaching of English. English jovimal, 

3: 631^3, December 1914. 

I. Literature. 

Discusses the teaching of English in the high schools, and the failme of teachers of English as a 
body to achieve results that are in any way commensurate with the effort put forth. 

41. Leavitt, F. M,, and Harms, L. A. P. Science for prevocational boys. Ele- 

mentary school journal, 15: 243-50, January 1915. 

Correlation between science and drawing, mathematics and science, etc. Students study a 
general science text-book and other supplementary data, and "make notebooks which, when 
completed, constitute illustrated text-books covering almost the entire work given in the subject. 
Demonstrations are given by the teacher to arouse interest and to make the work concrete." 

42. Miller, G. A. The training of matbematics teachers. School science and mathe- 

matics, 15: 1-12, January 1915. 

Read before the Mathematics section of the Centi'al association of science and mathematics 
teachers, Chicago, November 27, 1914. 

43. Miller, George J. Essentials of modern geography and criteria for tbeir deter- 

mination. Journal of geography, 13: 129-35, January 1915. 
Read at the Minnesota educational association meeting, St. Paul, October 23, 1914. 

44. Nichols, Walter H. The high-school play. English journal, 3: 620-30, Decem- 

ber 1914. 
A plea for the recognition of the drama in the large high school. 

45. Parker, Edna. The best methods of teaching temperance. Middle-west school 

review, 7: 11-12, January 1915. 

46. Reed, A. G. English in the high school. Louisiana school work, 3: 15-21, 

January 1915. 

A paper read at the meeting of the High school principals held at Baton Rouge, December 
10-11,1914. 

Considers the aims in teaching composition and rhetoric, literatm-e, grammar, and spelling in 
the high school, and the organization of the work. 

47. Russell, William F. Early methods in teaching history in secondary' schools. 

Part I. History teacher's magazine, 6: 14-19, January 1915. 

"It is proposed first to consider the general methods in use dming the first foiu" decades of the 
nineteenth century; second, to note the various teaching devices and aids to classroom instruc- 
tion as they were introduced, and third, tD attempt to tiace the effect upon classroom procedure 
through their incorporation in the text-books." 



8 CUKKENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

48. Scherger, George L. Public speaking in professional schools. What should 

be our aims and how we may attain them. Public speaking review, 4: 97-103, 
December 1914. 

49. "Webb, Haxrison E. Grammar school mathematics. Mathematics teacher, 7 : 37- 

48, December 1914. 

50. WiHiams, S.. Horace. The teaching of spelling. Journal of education, 80: 

665-66, December 31, 1914. 

"This discussion on the psychology and pedagogy of spelling will be given in four topics, as fol- 
lows: The aims, The fundamental principles, The development method, Results and conclusions." 

51. Wilmanns, . Zur frage des zeichenaufsatzes. Zwei schiileraufsatze. 

Zeitschrift fiir lateinlose hohere schulen, 26: 5-21, December 1914. 

The "illustrated composition'' has been developed, independently, in the schoolsof Liibeck and 
Munich. This article includes reproductions of two such compositions, with the completed draw- 
ings. 

KINDERGARTEN AND PRIMARY SCHOOL. 

52. Ashford, F. Sense-plays and uumber-plays for the school and nursery. Boston, 

New York, and Chicago, Houghton Mifflin company [1915]. 101 p. 12°. 

53. Hillegas, M. B. The kindergarten and the school. Kindergarten review, 25: 

291-95, January 1915. 
Address given at the International kindergarten union convention, Springfield, Mass. 



54. Priif er, Johann. Zurkritikder Montessorimethode. Archiv fiir padagogik. I. 

teil. Die padagogische praxis, 3: 21-24, November 1914. 

Madame Montessori challenges comparison with Froebel, but in her system she denies to the 
child the freedom and initiative which are the essence of Froebelian pedagogy. There is only one 
way to use the material designed by her, the "correct" one, hence there is no opportunity for the 
play of fancy and the development of creativeness. 

RURAL EDUCATION. 

55. Browne, T. E. The teacher's opportunity in solving the rural problem. Train- 

ing school quarterly, 1: 117-21, October-December 1914. 

56. Claxton, P. P. The American rural school. Some suggestions for its improve- 

ment. School and society, 1: 37-50, January 9, 1915. 

Address delivered before Section L of the American association for the advancement of science, 
at PhiladelphLi, December 31, 1914. 

57. Johns, W. A. Community work in the one-teacher rural school. Ohio teacher, 

35: 204-5, December 1914. 

58. Van Wie, Anna. The rural school beautiful. Middle-west school review, 7: 

24-25, 41, December ]914. 

59. Wood, Thomas D. Minimum sanitary requirements for rural schools, proposed 

by the joint committees on health problems in education of the National coun- 
cil of the National education association and of the American medical associa- 
tion. Chicago, Press of American medical association, 1914. 8 p. 8°. 
Also in Journal of education, 80: ()27-28, 636, December 24, 1914. 

SECONDARY EDUCATION. 

60. Judd, Charles H. The junior high school. School review, 28: 25-33, January 

1915. 

Says: " Where the six-six plan means nothing but the transfer of two grades from one jurisdiction 
tx) the other, it is not worth adopting. The six-sLx plan, if it is to justify itself, must effect some 
real economies. There must be broader opportunities offered to students." 



CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 9 

61. Russell, Williain F. Economj^ of time in secondary education. Educational 

review, 43: 20-36, January 1915. 

Writer says that if "the teachers and cun-iculum makers of the American secondary schools wLll 
only aim at something in particular, and make the best use of modern psychology and sociology 
in getting there, that tremendous economy will be effected." The American school curriculum 
is often criticised because it is not vital. Mathematics, sciences, languages, history, and even 
English are taught with "no bearing upon practical consequences." Writer compares Continental 
systems of education with our own, etc. 

62. . Economy of time in secondary education through the improvement of 

instruction. High school quarterly, 3: 105-109, January 1915. 

63. Sexson, J. A. The reconstructed high school. Public schools, 1: 6-9, Decem- 

ber 1914. 
The high school and its cuiriculum. 

TEACHERS: TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL STATUS. 

64. ICronshage, Theodore, jr. The service rendered by the normal schools of 

Wisconsin. Normal school bulletin, 1: 67-75, December 1914. 
Address delivered at the State teachers' association, November, 1914. 

65. ^lemorandum submitted in behalf of the teachers in the employ of the Board of 

education of the city of New York, against the proposal to require said teachers 
to render compulsory service in the summer sclyols and other summer activi- 
ties conducted by said board. New York, The Evening post job printing 
office [1914] cover-title, 43 p. 8°. 
Prepared by a committee of the presidents of various teachers' associations of New York city. 

66. Palmer, George Herbert. Trades and professions. Boston, New York [etc.] 

Houghton Mifflin company [1914] xiii, 36 p. 12°. (Riverside educational mon- 
ographs, ed. by H. Suzzallo.) 

An address delivered before the University of the state of New York at its 50th annual convoca- 
tion in Albany, October 22, 1914, discusshig the nature of a profession and its difference from a 
trade, with special reference to teaching. 

67. Sluys, A. La ensenanza de la paidologia en la escuela normal y en la universi- 

dad. ^Monitor de la educacion com tin, 51: 198-210, November 1914. 

68. A symposium — The essential factors in success as a teacher. High school quar- 

terly, 3: 89-98, January 1915. 

"We present for the thoughtful introspective study of teachers the mature judgment of a number 
of leading educators North and South as to the essential factors that go to make up the successful 
teacher." — The Editors. 

69. Wiechardt, August Julius. Are teachers in institutions of higher learning ade- 

quately compensated? Bulletin of the Society for the promotion of engineer- 
ing education, 5: 22-36, December 1914. 

In summarizing the author says: "It would certainly seem that any thoughtful person, and 
especially any one interested in the success of higher education, would be irresistibly forced to the 
conclusion that men engaged in such work are not adequately compensated, and that the gross 
salary for a full professor should not be less than thirty-two hundred dollars annually." 

HIGHER EDUCATION. 

70. New England association of colleges and preparatory schools. Twenty- 

ninth annual meeting, November 6-7, 1914, Brown university. Education, 35: 
265-328, January 1915. 

Contains: 1. C.W.Eliot: What is the college for? The place of culture, p. 271-77. 2. E.L. Thorn- 
dike: The disciplinary values of studies: a census of opinions, p. 278-86. 3. W. E. Hocking: 
What is the college for? The place of preparation, p. 287-300. 4. A. E. Steams: WTiat is the col- 
lege for? The place of athletics, p. 301-11. 5. Alexander Meiklejolm: The place of student ac- 
tivities, p. 312-19. 6. J. II. Finley: The ideal college, p. 320-28. 

77732°— 15 2 



10 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

Paper no. 1 declares that "the great function of national education is the transmission of the 
national ideals." The best environment for culture is that of the school, academy, university, or 
church. The college provides the society in which true culture can be atta^ed. 

Paper no. 2 is a study based upon replies to a questioimaire sent to teachers. Writer says: "In 
my opinion the small amount of the differences in disciplinary value, as per the opinions, and the 
disagreement concerning the existence of even the greatest of them, justify the inference that the 
so-called cultural and utilitarian values of school subjects enormously outweigh their disciplinary 
values as criteria for selection and credit in a total curriculum, and especially in the required frac- 
tion of a curriculum." 

Paper no. 3 says that the moving factors of life are the spirit of work, the cult of religion, and the 
participation in the state. Shows the effect of the college upon these factors. 

71. Academe and Mayfair. Unpopular review, 3: 102-17, January-March 1915. 

Discusses the question of the social status of American college professors. 

72. Academic freedom — a confession. [By "Professor Ordinarius"] New republic, 

1: 17-18, January 2, 1915. 

Says that in the field of "the social sciences new tendencies and new demands make imperative 
not only an appeal to the ideal of academic freedom, but a thorough-going definition of that appeaj 
which will stand firm under criticism and direct assault." 
/ 

73. Burg, John C. University registration statistics. Science, 40: 919-26, Decem- 

ber 25, 1914. 

Gives the registration returns for November 1, 1914, of thirty of the universities of the United 
States. "Statistics show only the registration in the universities considered. There is no inten- 
tion to convey the idea that these universities are the thirty largest universities in the country, 
nor that they are necessarily the leading institutions." The following universities show "the 
largest gaias in terms of student units, including the summer attendance, but making due allow- 
ance by deduction for the summer session students who returned for instruction in the fall: Co- 
lumbia (1,365), California (1,109), Pittsburgh (1,069), Ohio State (832), Wisconsin (806), Harvard 
(784), New York university (634), Miimesota (552), Peimsylvania (536), Illinois (405), Nebraska 
(349), Cornell (327), Cincinnati (319), and Michigan (311)." 

74. Cooper, Clayton Sedg^ck. World-wide education. English vs. American 

student life. Educational foundations, 26: 265-79, January 1915. 

The subject is discussed imder the following headings: Administrative contrasts. Moral discip- 
line, Athletic oneness. College societj' life. Society in fraternities. College spirit, and, The college 
man and the state. 

75. Coursault, Jesse H. Standardizing the junior college. Educational review, 

43:56-67, January 1915. 

Describes an experiment by the University of Missouri. First important result was the im- 
provement in the colleges themselves. "Advice given by the university was followed vsollingly 
and promptly. Faculties were recruited with better prepared teachers." 

76! Dabney, Charles Wiliiam. The municipal university. School and society, 1: 
73-80, January 16, 1915. 

Address before the National association of state imiversities, Washington, D. C. 

77. Farwell, H. W. Training for action. Popular science monthly, 86: 76-79, 

January 1915. 

Writer claims that the existing college curricula need revision "to the end that the average stu- 
dent may at least know what business ability is, and whether or not he himself possesses it in 
small measure or in large." 

78. Fox, Dixon Ryan. A country boy and a city college. Columbia imiversity 

quarterly, 17: 68-81, December 1914. 

A moving story giving an "illustration of the intimate commingling of the University and life 
about it. It is a story true to the experience of many hundreds of Columbia men, who have come 
to us from the country." — Editorial comment. 

79. Fullerton, George Stuart. Impressions of Austrian university life. Colum- 

bia imiversity quarterly, 17: 27-39, December 1914. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 11 

80. HeTwitt, John H. Williams college and foreign missions. Biographical sketches 

of Williams college men who have rendered special service to the cause of 
foreign missions. Boston, New York [etc.] The Pilgrim press [1914] 641 p. 
illus. 8° 

81. Reuben, Milton H. An undergraduate's view of college education. Educa- 

tional review, 43: 48-55, January 1915. 

A sympathetic view of a college education. The higher education makes for development of 
character; the training for intelligent citizenship; hygienic methods of living; and attainment of 
culture. 

82. Sumner, Charles Burt. The story of Pomona college. Boston, New York 

[etc.] The Pilgrim press [1914] xiii, 417 p. illus. 8°. 

83. Thwing, Charles F. The intellectual new birth. Educational foundations, 26: 

280-87, January 1915. 

Deals with the awakening of the intellectual powers, which, in most persons, comes between the 
years of 17 and 21, the college age. 

SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION. 

84. Coffman, Lotus D. The American school superintendent. Educational ad- 

ministration and supervision, 1: 13-28, January 1915. 
Read before the Illinois schoolmaster's club, Peoria, October 30, 1914. 

85. Cubberley, Ellwood P. Fundamental problems in educational administration. 

Educational administration and supervision, 1: 3-12, January 1915. 
Deals principally with the administrative problems of the State. 

86. Deflfenbaugh, W. S. School administration problems in small cities. American 

school board journal, 50: 9-11, January 1915. 

87. Minnesota. Public education commission. Report to the governor. De- 

cember 1, 1914. [St. Paul? 1914] .32 p. 8°. 

88. Nebraska. Commission to revise the school laws. Report of the commis- 

sion appointed by Gov. John H. Morehead to revise the school laws of Ne- 
braska. Lincoln, The Woodruff press, 1914. 43 p. 8°. 

89. Scott, Fred N. Efficiency for efficiency's sake. School re\'iew, 23: 34-42, 

January 1915. 

Says that "the most efficient things in teaching are not . . . susceptible of adequate quantitative 
measurement. They are such things as personality, sympathy, sincerity, enthusiasm, intuition 
of character," etc. Efficiency tests are carried too far. Author is not hostile, however, to the effi- 
ciency movement, but has his doubts of the efficacy of tests where spiritual factors and ideal values 
are concerned. 

90. Unger, J. J. The county unit of organization. School news of New Jersey, 4: 

6-8, December 1914. 

To be continued in next issue. 

Address delivered before the Council of education, Newark, N. J., October 1914. 

SCHOOL MANAGEMENT. 

91. GriflSn, Joseph T. Executive ability in class management. Teachers maga- 

zine, 37: 169-73, January 1915. 

Discusses the phase of teaching which affects the judgment of the marking official. This 
phase of teaching work is discussed under the following topics: Punctuality and regularity, Absence 
of teachers, and, Compliance with official suggestions. 

92. No home study. Primary education, 23: 62, January 1915. 

The new course of study in use in the schools of Sacramento, Gal., abolishes home study. The 
time schedule for the primary grades is given. 



12 CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

93. Roe, William. S. Evaluation of educational results. Colorado school journal, 

30: 5-8, December 1914. 
A few heresies concerning our present marking systems. 

SCHOOL ARCHITECTURE. 

94. Herricht, A. Sicherung der schulgebaudegegen blitz. Schulhaus, 16: 433-38, 

heft 9-10, 1914. 

A statement of the principles and methods of securing school buildings against fire and damage 
by lightning. Six drawings. 

95. Hildebrandt, P. Kinematographie und schule. Schulhaus, 16: 443-47, heft 

9-10, 1914. 

The use of moving pictures in schools discussed from the point of view of architectural and tech- 
nical requirements. Pedagogical limitation and possibilities. Pedagogical hints. 

96. Kimball, D. C. Ventilation of school buildings. American school board journal, 

50: 15-16, 63-64, January 1915. 
To be continued. 

97. Schoenfelder, L. Der stand der schulbaderfrage in Deutschland. Schulhaus, 

16: 425-32, heft 9-10, 1914. 

History of the practice of installing shower baths in public school buildings in Germany. De- 
tails of construction and equipment . Conclusions. 

SCHOOL HYGIENE AND SANITATION. 

98. Atkinson, D. T. Adenoids and kindred perils of school life. New York, Vail- 

Ballou company [1914] 224 p. 12°. 

Besides adenoids, deals with defects of eye, ear, and throat; bad postures, nervous disorders, 
over-pressure, effects of poor ventilation and insufficient exercise, tuberculosis, etc. 

SEX HYGIENE. 

99. Phelps, Jessie. Sex hygiene in education. American schoolmaster, 7: 433-54, 

December 1914. 

Eeferences: p. 452-54. 

Delivered in part as an address before the local Chautauqua, at Ann Arbor, Michigan, July 10, 
1914. 

"An attempt to set forth a few general suggestions concerning the possible teaching of the facts 
and laws of sex from the constructive side, and the relation which both parents and teachers have 
to the matter." 

PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

100. Crampton, C. Ward. The New York city syllabus of physical training. Amer- 

ican physical education review, 19: 647-57, December 1914. 

101. Physical exercises for open air pupils. American open air school journal, 1: 8-9, 

December 1914. 

Many inquiries have been received for suggested forms of short exercises for pupils in open air 
schools. A few are given here. 

102. Richards, John N. Physical education efficiency tests for grade schools. 

American physical education review, 19: 637-46, December 1914. 

Explains the system of efficiency tests in physical education in use in the Miller Street public 
school of Newark, N. J. 

103. Sevrette, Gaston. Les sports scolaires en Belgique. Revue p^dagogique, 

n, e. 65:176-80, October 15-November 15, 1914. 

Largely an account of the work of the Belgian Ligue d'athWtisme. The league is opposed to 
extreme specialization and prefers the winning of championships by groups rather than by indi- 
viduals. 



CUKRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 13 

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS. 

104. Curtis, Henry S. Education through play. New York, The Macmillan com- 

pany, 1915. xix, 359 p. illus. 12°. 

Contents.— 1. What is play?— 2. Play as physical training.— 3. Play and the training of the 
intellect. — 4. Play and the formation of habits and character.— 5. Play in the German schools. — 6. 
Play in the English schools.— 7. The school playgrounds of American cities.— 8. Play at the rural 
school.— 9. The playgrounds of Gary.— 10. Play in the curriculum.— 11. Athletics in secondary 
schools and colleges.^12. Recreation at summer schools. — 13. The summer playgrounds. — 14. The 
school camp.- 15. The school as a social center.— 16. The training of play teachers. — Appendix: 
Rules for games. 

Includes bibliographies. 

105. Fresno state normal school. Playground apparatus, by W. B. Givens; with 

an article on the Playground movement in rural schools, by C. L. Phelps; 
together with an article on Suggested combinations of apparatus, by Solon W. 
Cunningham. California state printing office, 1914. 29 p. illus. 8°. 
(Fresno state normal school. Bulletin no. 1) 

106. Turner, Clair K. The rural school playground. Teaching, 1: 19-25, Decem- 

ber 15, 1914. 

107. . The school playground. Teaching, 1: 4-14, December 15, 1914. 

Takes up the subjects of apparatus and games for each grade. 

108. Wellington, G. The playground's relation to intellectual, esthetic, and moral 

growth. Mind and body, 21: 461-64, January 1915. 

SOCIAL ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

109. Bruce, W. H. The home in education. Texas school journal, 32: 15-16, 41, 

44-48, January 1915. 
Speaks of the great necessity of the cooperation of home and school in the education of the child. 

110. Denver (Colo.) High schools council. Wider use of the school plant. Colo- 

rado school journal, 30: 10-13, December 1914. 

A committee appointed by the Denver high schools council sent out questions to about 80 repre- 
sentative cities for information concerning the wider use of the school plant. This article gives 
some of the answers received. 

111. Phillips, J. H. The social ideal in education. Part I. Educational exchange, 

30: 5-8, January 1915. 

Part I. 

Address delivered before the State teachers' association of Georgia, April 24, 1914. 

112. Spaulding, J. E. Americanizing the immigrant. Popular educator, 32: 268- 

69, January 1915. 

An educational problem. 

From an address before the Massachusetts commission on immigiation. 

MORAL AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 

113. Disbrow, Buth A. The restraint of our public schools. Educational review, 

43: 84-93, January 1915. 

Thinks that public school children are not at present receiving that restraint of character so 
necessary for self-discipline when launched into the world. 

114. Gladden, Washington. Religion and the schools. Atlantic monthly, 115: 

57-68, January 1915. 

Discusses religion and public schools from every angle. Thinks that "no arrangement respecting 
our public schools is possible by which the problem of religious education can be adequately 
solved. . . . Our entire reliance for this wir1: must be placed upon the church and the home." 



14 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

115. Harvard alumni bulletin, vol. 17, no. 15, January 13, 1915. Religion at Harvard. 

illus. 

Contains: 1. E. C. Moore: Religious life at Harvard— I. The university chapel; II. Phillips 
Brooks house, p. 252-60. — 2. J. H. Ropes: Theological education at Harvard, p. 260-64.— 3. J. J. 
Ryan: The St. Paul's Catholic club, p. 264-67. 

116. Wilson, C. "W. The work of the schools in developing moral character in the 

grammar grade child. Training school quarterly, 1: 139-43, October-Decem- 
ber 1914. 
Read at the North Carolina teachers assembly. 

MANUAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING. 

117. National society for the promotion of industrial education. Eighth 

annual convention held in Richmond, Va., December 9-12, 1914. Industrial- 
arts magazine, 3: 43-47, January 1915. 

Contains: 1. W. C. Redfield: The need of accurate information.— 2. Samuel Gompers: Attitude 
of organized labor. — 3. R. O. Small: Types of schools needed. — i. Elizabeth Cleveland: Industrial 
education for girls. — 5. The Richmond survey. 

118. AUan, Elizabeth P. Some impressions of Munich and its schools. Middle- 

west school review, 7: 20-23, January 1915. 

119. CraAvshaw, F. D. Organization of administrative material. Industrial-arts 

magazine, 3: 20-23, January 1915. 

Fifth article of a series on the organization of administrative material in manual and industrial 
arts. This article deals with the care of supplies and equipment. 

120. Dodd, Alvin E. and Bawden, William T. Report on a plan for an elementary 

industrial school in the city of Richmond, Va. Manual training and vocational 
education, IG: 271-77, January 1915. 
This plan " is of special interest because it is one of the results of the recent survey in Richmond." 

121. Durell, Fletcher. Fundamental sources of efficiency. Philadelphia and Lon- 

don, J. B. Lippincott company, 1914. 368 p. 8°. 

"An attempt to analyze the various forms and sources of eflSciency into a few elemental princi- 
ples. . . . Such a presentation of the principles of efficiency may throw light on the problem of 
vocational and cultural studies, and perhaps suggest how the study of the principles of efficiency,a3 
such, may be made a central study in educational systems." 

122. Henke, Frank X. and Fritsch, Edwin A. Manual arts work of the upper grade 

boys at the Haines practice school. Educational bi-monthly, 9 : 114-24, Decem- 
ber 1914. 

Article I— Drawing. 

123. Leavitt, Frank M. Natural growth in industrial education. Industrial-arts 

magazine, 3: 1-4, January 1915. 

In conclusion, the author says that ''the natural growth of popular education will be stimulated 
v/hen all educators become intelligent students of the methodsand purposes of the newly organized 
vocational schools and classes of whatever type, and when they seek to inject into the presentschool 
system as much as may be of the vitality and directness of these new schools." 

124. Mosser, George H. A vocational night school with an enrollment of over 

2,000. American city, 12: 21-23, January 1915. 

Description of the activities of the Altoona night school, Altoona, Pa. Illustrated. 

125. Roberts, M. Emma. Practical art work in the public schools. Middle-west 

school review, 7: 5-7, Januaiy 1915. 

126. Williams, S. Horace. Democracy and industrial education. White Moimtain 

educator, 2: 6-7, 9-11, 5, 7, October, November, December 1914. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 15 

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE. 

127. Kitson, H. D. Suggestions toward a tenable theory of vocational guidance. 

Manual training and vocational education, 16: 265-70, Januaiy 1915. 

"Mr. Kitson points to some misconceptions concerning vocational guidance, and to the danger 
in the commercialization of public interest in this subject. He shows wherein the popular concep- 
tion of vocational guidance is wrong and then proposes 'an amendment'." 

128. Wile, Ira S. Vocational guidance and the curriculum. American teacher, 

4: 2-7, January 1915. 

Read at the fourth National conference on vocational guidance, Richmond, Va., December 8, 
1914. 

The writer thinks that preparation for a specific job is beyond the function of a course of study 
in an elementary school. Job education is the responsibility of industry. 

HOME ECONOMICS. 

129. Olin, Blanche M. Extension work in home economics. Wyoming school 

journal, 11: 96-99, December 1914. 

130. Warner, Annette J. Art in the home. Journal of home economics, 7: 8-16, 

January 1915. 
A plea for the incorporation of art in the home and in home economics. 

COMMERCIAL EDUCATION. 

131. National commercial teachers' federation. Proceedings . . . seventeenth 

annual convention, held at Chicago, 111., December 29-31, 1913. Kansas City, 
Mo., The Federation. 220 p. 8°. (W. E. IngersoU, secretary, Portland, 
Oregon.) 

Contains: 1. F. M. Van Antwerp: [Commercial education] p. 12-16. 2. J. C. Walker: What can 
the business college do to meet better the requirements of the business world, p. 42-47. 3. W. H. 
Gilbert: What the business world demands of our graduates, p. 55-61. 4. C. A. Balcomb: A pri- 
vate secretary course for shorthand schools, p. 117-21. 5. W. A. Sheafler: The teaching of com- 
mercial law in the high school, p. 125-30. 6. H. M. Rowe: Non-essentials in commercial work, 
p. 130-36. 7. R. A. Grant: Short commercial courses in high schools, p. 151-62. 8. T. E. Paulus: 
The long and short commercial course in the high school, p. 162-64. 9. William Bachrach: The 
two-year stenographic course of the Chicago high schools, p. 165-68. 

NURSE TRAINING. 

132. Hilliard, Amy M. Inspection of nurse schools in New York state. American 

journal of nursing, 15: 282-85, January 1915. 

From August 1, 1913, to July 31, 1914, 1,311 diplomas were issued to graduates of registered nurse 
training schools in New York state, an increase of 151 over the preceding year. 

133. Parsons, Sara E. Encouraging signs in nursing education. American journal 

of nursing, 15: 274-76, January 1915. 

Says that more college women are going into training schools for nursing every year. Nine uni- 
versities have taken training of nurses as part of their work, and some of them confer a degree upon 
the graduates of the nursing school. 

CIVIC EDUCATION. 

134. National conference on universities and public service. Universities and 

public service. Proceedings of the National conference on universities and 
public service . . . held under the auspices of Committee on practical train- 
ing for public service of the American political science association. New York, 
May 12-13, 1914. Madison, Wis., Cantwell printing company, 1914. 289 p. 
8°. (E. A. Fitzpatrick, Madison, Wis., executive secretary.) 

Contains: 1. J. P. Mitchell: Universities and the public service, p. 19-21. 2. P. P. Claxton: A 
sound educational principle, p. 22-23. 3. R. J. Aley: The function of the university, p. 27-30. 



€ 



16 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS, 

4. Charles McCai'thy: The upbuilding of administration. The greatest need of American demoo- 
racy, p. 33^5. 5. P. P. Claxton: Public service as a career, p. 63-^5. 6. B. B. Burritt: The occu- 
pations of college graduates, p. 85-88. 7. Public service activities of universities: a record of what 
is being done, p. 167-220. 8. E. E. Brown: The National university and the national life, p. 220-31. 
9. John Dewey: Should universities give credit for work done in governmental bureaus and other 
agencies?— The educational principles involved, p. 249-54. 10. E. J. James: Professional training 
for important positions in the public service, p. 269-73. 

135. Fitzpatrick, Edward A. How can we work the university graduate into 

municii^al government? National municipal review, 4: 93-96, January 1915. 

136. Gill, Wilson Lindsley. More efficient citizenship. Statement ... in sup- 

port of an amendment intended to be proposed by Mr. Owen to the bill making 
appropriations for the legislative, executive, and judicial expenses of the 
government for the fiscal year June 30, 1916. Washington, Government 
printing office, 1915. 11 p. 8°. (U. S. 63d Cong., 3d sess. Senate Doc. no. 
662.) 
Presented by Mr. Owen, December 22, 1914.— Ordered to be printed. 

137 HaU, G. Stanley. Teaching the war. School and society, 1: 8-13, January 2, 
1915. 

The writer thinks " that war and its lessons can be taught without oHense and that it is a pedar 
gogic blunder which is sometimes worse than a crime to exclude a topic so quickening to intelli- 
• gence, so rich in matter for which every youthful mind hungers, and which affords such an 
unparalleled opportunity to teach toleration and agreement to differ . . ." 

MILITARY TRAINING. 

138. Hibben, John Grier. A phase of military preparedness. Princeton alimani 

weekly, 15: 336-37, January 13, 1915. 
From the Nassau literary magazine, on subject of military training of college men. 

139. Kemsies, F. Die militiirische jugendvorbereitung. Archiv fiir padagogik. 

I. teil. Die padagogische praxis, 3: 9-14, November 1914. 

"Literatur": p. 14. 

Comments on the significance, for military preparedness, general education, and hygienic develop- 
ment of the young men, of the recent joint order by the Imperial German ministers of education, 
war, and internal affairs. See Militarische vorbereitung der jugend withrend des mobilen zu- 
standes, in Zentralblatt f iir die gesamte unterrichtsverwaltung in Preussen, 10. heft, p. 629-33, 
October 1, 1914. 

EDUCATION OF INDIANS. 

140. Cloud, Henry B. Education for the American Indian. Southern workman, 

44: 12-16, January 1915. 

Says: "Education that seeks to lead the Indians into outdoor vocational pursuits is most neces- 
sary." 

DEFECTIVE AND DELINQUENT CHILDREN. 

141. Eddins, A. W. The school and the delinquent boy. Texas school journal, 

32: 7-9, January 1915. 

Mentions some ways in which our schools contribute to delinquency. 

142. Healy, WiUiam. The individual delinquent; a text-book of diagnosis and 

prognosis for all concerned in understanding offenders. Boston, Little, Brown, 
and company, 1915. xvi, 830 p. illus. 4°. 

143. SchofE, Hannah Kent. The wayward child; a study of the causes of crime. 

Indianapolis, The Bobbs-Merrill company [1915] [21], 274 p. 12°. (Child- 
hood and youth series, ed. by M. V. O'Shea) 

144. Wnker, Karl. Die padagogik des anormalen menschen. Archiv fiir pada- 

gogik. II. teil. Die padagogische forschung, 3: 1-16, November 1914. 

A historical summary of the development of the education of abnormal children, and a review 
of the standard literature regarding Education of cripples, the blind, deaf-mutes, the mentally 
defective, and epileptics. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 17 

LIBRARIES AND READING. 

145. Cabot, Ella Lyman. Children's reading as a help in training character. 

Journal of education, 81: 5-6, January 7, 1915. 
Address before the Vermont state association. 

146. Koch, Theodore W. The Imperial public library, St. Petersbiu-g. First 

paper: The foimdation. Library journal, 40: 5-23, January- 1915. plates. 

Mainly a digest of the centenary volume entitled "One hundred years of the Imperial public 
librarj-," printed in Russian and edited by the present director of the library. 

147. Stahl, J. H. Indiana young people's reading circle. Educator-journal, 

15: 220-24. Januar\' 1915. 

BUREAU OF EDUCATION: RECENT PUBLICATIONS. 

148. Care of the health of boys in Girard college, Philadelphia, Pa. Washington, 

1914. 20 p. plates. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 40) 

149. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at pubUc expense; 

by A. C. Monahan. Washington, 1914. 108 p. plates. (Bulletin, 1914, 
no. 30) 

150. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools; by A. C. Mona- 

han. Washington, 1914. 56 p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 44) 

151. Education for the home; by Benjamin R. Andrews. Part 1. Introductory 

survey, equipment for household arts. Washington, 1914. 53 p. plates. 
(Bulletin, 1914, no. 36) 

152. School savings banks; by Mrs. Sara Louisa Oberholtzer. Washington, 1915. 

34 p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 46) 

153. Statistics of state universities and s^tate colleges for the year ended June 30, 

1914. Washington, 1915. 19 p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 50) 

NEW PERIODICALS. 

American open air school journal. Vol. 1, no. 1, October 1914. Published monthly. 
American open air school association, Philadelphia, Pa. (Walter W. Roach, 
editor.) 

Educational administration and supervision. Vol. 1, no. 1, January 1915. 10 num- 
bers a year. Warwick & York, Baltimore, Md. 

Normal school bulletin. Vol. 1, no. 1, September 1914. 10 numbers a year. Board 

of regents of normal schools, Madison, Wis. 
Public schools. Vol. 1, no. 1, September 1914. 10 numbers a year. Denver, Colo. 
School and society. Vol. 1, no. 1, January 2, 1915. Published weekly. The Science 

press. Garrison, N. Y. (J. McKeen Cattell, editor.) 

Social hygiene. Vol. 1, no. 1, December 1914. Published quarterly. American 
social hygiene association, 105 West 40th street. New York, N. Y. 

Southern educational news. Vol. 1, no. 1, January 1915. Published monthly, 
Dallas, Tex. 

Teaching. Vol. 1, no. 1, October 1914. Published semi-monthly. Emporia, Kans. 

Training school quarterly. Vol. 1, no. i, April 1914. Green\'il]e, X. C. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note. — With tlie exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing OlHce, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development 

William N. Hailmann. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907, 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2 Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James li. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

|No. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. I/ist of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1S67-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in (he United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean 11. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

*>Jo. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
*No. 8. Statistics o'f State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 26 cts. 
♦No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States: amount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thomdike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1907. 
*No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
*No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efliciency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

*No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the Stat* 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

♦No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion -n the public schools of Saxony. .\.rley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: HI. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
♦No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. SO cts. 
*No. 6. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar- 75 cts. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 

I 



n BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 



*No. 1. Bibliography of science teacliinf;. Sets. 

♦No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahau. 5cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools oC 

Baltimore- 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Stray er. 10 cts. 
*No. 6 Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in matliematics, other than those set by the teacher lor his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 190S-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Hany E. King. 10 cts. 
jNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. Harlan UpdegrafE. 20 cts. 
No. 19. Statistics oi State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

*No. 1. A course of study for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F. Mutchler and W. .1 . Craig. Sets. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. Sets. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan UpdegrafE. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 
*No. S. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. Sets. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12.] 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrick. 
♦No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
♦No. 14. Report of the .\merican commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics, No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
♦No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. S cts. 
♦No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. Sets. 
♦No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. li) cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics, darlan UpdegrafE and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 

♦No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. O. Mudge. 10 cts . 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. III. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History ol public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
♦No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. £9. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Chas. Goldziher. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar K. Brandon. 
♦No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 5cts. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported 
the State, 1912. -^ 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
♦No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 
♦No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 
♦No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLeau. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational jiublications, February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. Ill 

♦No. t). Agricultural insiruction in high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenkj. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

fNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

fNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

fNo. 11. Mbnthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efScieney of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

*No. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

*No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city , Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
*No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

fNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States Georg Kerschenstelner. 

5 cts. 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B.Daniel. Set . 
fNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

*No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
*No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
*No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 
fNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
*No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
*No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
*No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-U. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
*No. 38. Eeconomy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmann. 
*No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
*No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
*No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
*No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

*No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
*No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and Adams Phillips. 

No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 
*No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
*No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications December 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial edueation in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, Oct. 1, 1909, to Oct. 1, 1912. James C. 

Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 

No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

*No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
*No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfield. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. K. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1914. 
*No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 

No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boy kin and Roberta King. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange Covmty, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools ia Europe. Frank L. Glyna. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 

No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahaa. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation ofsecondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart . 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home— Part I. General statement. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part II. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home — Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of cun-ent educational pubUcations, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural-school teachers. H. W . Foght . 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 4 WHOLE NUMBER 628 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM AMERICAN MEDICAL JOURNALS 
JULY, 1913, TO JULY, 1 91 4 



Compiled by W. H. HECK 

PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

15 CENTS PER COPY 



CONTENTS 



Paee. 

Letter of transmittal 7 

Introduction— Tr. II. Heck, Ph. D 9 

Medical inspection of infants and children under school age — David Forsyth, 

M. D 10 

Medical inspection of children in rural schools — William M. Jones, M. D 12 

The age and seasonal incidence of diseases of children — Charles Herrman, M. D. 14 

Shall we close the schools during epidemics? — Francis George Curtis, M. D... 15 

The prophylaxis of measles — John Ruhrah, M. D 18 

Vaccination — George W. Gay, M. D 19 

Cutaneous affections of childhood — Alfred Schalek, M. D 20 

General symptoms and significance of hookworm disease — C. M. Fauntleroy. . . 23 

Rules for preventing typhoid fever — Edwin 0. Jordan 25 

Cardiac disease in childhood, with special reference to prognosis — Charles 

Hunter Dunn, M. D 26 

Symptoms of rheumatism in childhood — H. P. Dawson, M. D 28 

A study of the child in the tuberculous milieu — Maurice Fishherg, M. D 30 

Tuberculous bronchial glands in children — John B. Hawes, 2d, M. D 32 

Results of joint tuberculosis in a series of 200 cases under observation for five or 

more years — Frank D. Dickson, M. D., and De Forest P. Willard, M. D 34 

The State care of crippled children — Wallace Blanchard, M. D 35 

Early history of the care and treatment of cripples — Douglas C. McMurtrie. . . 37 

Weak feet and postural deformity in children — Charles Ogilvy, M. D 39 

Flat foot in children — Albert Ehrenfried, M. D 41 

Care of the eyes of school children 41 

Care of the eyes of school children at Moorfields, London — Samuel Horton 

Brown, M. D 43 

Is the percentage of myopic eyes diminishing? — Samuel D. Risley, M. D 44 

Squint and its correction — John J. O'Brien, M. D 47 

What the State can do to prevent blindness — Willis 0. Nance, M. D 48 

Preventable blindness — A challenge to the profession — Henry Copley Greene, 

B. A 50 

The eruption and decay of the permanent teeth — Robert Bennett Bean 53 

The causes of dental caries — Edgar D. Coolidge, D. D. S 54 

Oral sepsis — R. H. Halsey 56 

School dental clinics 57 

The child's health and beauty as influenced by the teeth — Henry C. Ferris, 

D. D. S 57 

Combined dental and nasal treatment to restore normal nasal respiration — 

John A . Thompson, M. D 59 

Hypertrophied tonsils and adenoid vegetations in public-school children in 

New York City — S. Josephine Baker, M. D 61 

3 



4 CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Five hundred examinations of the nose and throat in an institution for delin- 
quent boys — Max Toeplitz, M. D 63 

A review and the present status of the tonsil operation — Sherman E. Wright, 

M. D 64 

What relation, if any, have the faucial tonsils to pulmonary tuberculosis? — 

E. Fletcher Ingalls, M. D 65 

Hypertrophied tonsils interfering with the action of the palate and causing 

defective speech — G. Hudson- Makuen, M. D 66 

WTiy does the operation for removal of adenoids frequently fail to relieve 

mouth breathing? — H. M. McClanahan, M. D 67 

Why is nasal catarrh so prevalent in the United States? — Wolff Freudenthal, 

M.D 69 

Preventable deafness — William Hihhs Tomlinson, M. D 72 

Some important factors in the conservation of hearing — C. M. Harris, M. D. . . 72 

The measurement of auditory acuity — Walter A. Wells, M. D 75 

Temperameiit in children — Mary Sutton Macy, M. D 77 

Some effects relating to the hygiene of nervous children — Mary O'Malley, M. D.. 79 

Nervous children — Theophil Klingmann, M. D 84 

Neurotic, psychasthenic, and hysterical children — /. P. Crozer Griffith, M. D.. 87 
Some observations on the conditions and treatment of stuttering — Constance 

Charnley 90 

A study of 1,000 cases of stammering, with special reference to the etiology 

and treatment of the affection — G. Hudson MaJcuen, M. D 95 

Psychogenic epidemics in schools — August Strauch, M. D 98 

Investigations of 100 cases of chorea — Arthur Newlin, M. D 101 

Feeble-mindedness and school children- — E. Bosivorth McCready, 31. D 103 

A study of the etiology in 175 epileptic children — Arthur Willard Fairbanks, 

M.D 106 

The relation of physical defect to delinquency — H. D. Newkirk, M. D 108 

The physical basis of crime from the standpoint of the probation officer — 

John W. Witter 110 

The schoolhouse as a crime contributor — Edward C. Elliott, Ph. D 112 

Teaching of hygiene in public schools. Recommendations of the committee of 

the American Academy of Medicine — Helen C. Putnam and Edward. Jackson. . 114 

The teaching of sex hygiene in the public schools — Prof. C. R. Henderson 115 

Propaganda against alcoholism — Alfred Gordon, M. D 117 

Teaching of first aid in schools — Charles A. Kinch, M. D 118 

The effect of competitive athletics' on scholarship — H. D'Arcy Poiver, M. D 120 

Athletic sports in relation to health 124 

The cardiac effects of immoderate college athletics — Leopold Shumacker, M. D., 

and William S. Middleton, M. D 127 

Importance of regulated rest and play for school children — James D. Love, M. D . 130 
Comparative growth in chest circumference and in body length — William Carlos 

Williams, M. D 133 

Healthy sick children — Le Grand Kerr, M. D 134 

Measured feeding for older children — William R. P. Emerson, M. D 136 

Cold baths and sleeping porches — A . Morgan Mac Whinnie, M. D 139 

Recent data in regard to open-air schools — John V. Van Pelt, A. D.G., A.L.A.. 14] 

On the respiration of expired air — Thomas R. Crowder, M. D 143 

The air as a veloicle of infection — Charles V. Chapin, M. D ." 146 



CONTENTS. 

Page. 
A new method of determining the dust in air and in fresh-air schoolrooms — 

JohnB. Todd, M. D 149 

Country school sanitation — Francis G. Blair 151 

A method of obtaining proper school sanitation — Louis Becker, M.D 153 

Clean books — William R. Reinick 155 

Index 157 



LETTER OF TRANSMirfAL 



Department of the Interior, 

Bureau of Education, 
Washington, January 21, 1915. 

Sir: Our public-school system imposes upon school ojBficers and 
teachers a heavy responsibility in the care for the health of the mil- 
hons of children congregated in large groups in schoolhouses through- 
out the school hours of the school year and for suggestions and 
directions in regard to the care of the health of children out of school. 
In many schools principals must assume the responsibility for the 
health of pupils, both day and night, from the beginning to the end 
of the school year. To enable them to assume these responsibiUties 
intelhgently, school officers and teachers need aU the assistance that 
can be gained from those who have given special study to the means 
of preserving and establishing the health of children. Much of the 
best of this material appears only in medical journals not usually 
accessible to school officers and teachers. I have therefore asked 
Dr. W. H. Heck, professor of education in the University of Virginia, 
to prepare for the Bureau of Education summaries of the best articles 
on this subject appearing in the standard medical journals each year. 
The accompanying manuscript contains summaries and selections 
made from journals of this kind in the year ending June 30, 1914. I 
recommend that the manuscript be pubhshed as a bulletin of the 
Bureau of Education. 

Respectfully submitted. 

P. P. Claxton, 

Commissioner. 

The Secretary of the Interior. 

7 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 



INTRODUCTION. 

W. H. Heck, Ph. D., Professor of Education, University of Virginia. 

Medical journals are not often accessible to students and prac- 
titioners of education, and therefore the wealth of material in these 
journals regarding the health of school children is mainly lost to the 
educational world. The present bulletin is the result of a desire to 
put this material at the disposal of superintendents, principals, pro- 
fessors, students in normal schools and colleges, and even medical 
inspectors who may not have access to all the journals here 
represented. 

The purpose has been to select, from the many articles studied, 
paragraphs of those articles only that add to the literature of school 
hygiene new data, new points of view, or noteworthy statements of 
current opinion. Some of the selections are not strictly within the 
limits of school hygiene, but are suggestive for the general health 
propaganda of the schools. Although difficult technical discussions 
have been omitted, several technical terms had to be included; in 
fact, there is no reason why, for the main hygienic needs and patho- 
logical conditions of school children, the educational world should not 
learn and use the exact terms of medicine, rather than inexact 
popular terms. The number of articles selected on the different 
subjects corresponds fairly to the proportion of varied and useful 
material available, some phases of school hygiene having been 
discussed httle or not at all in the medical journals. Of course, only 
the authors themselves are responsible for the opinions expressed by 
them; and the conflicting opinions of different articles are of special 
interest. 

The files of journals and references in the Surgeon General's library 
at Washington have been searched for contributions. The period 
from July to July is probably the most convenient for an annual 
selection from medical literature. (One article here given is dated 
June 21, 1913.) The kindness of the publishers in allowing these 
selections to be reprinted is greatly appreciated. 

9 



10 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

No articles were chosen if they were known to have appeared also in 
educational journals, State health bulletins, or reports of two recent 
international congresses (Hygiene and Demography, Washington, 
1912, and School Hygiene, Buffalo, 1913), as this material is widely 
accessible to students of education. 



MEDICAL INSPECTION OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN UNDER SCHOOL 

AGE. 

David Forsyth, M. D., Physician to the Evelina Hospital for Sick Children, London. 
(From Pediatrics, October, 1913.) 

A significant fact bearing on the health of children, though hitherto 
hardly appreciated beside the more conspicuous facts relating to 
infant mortality, is now beginning to claim attention. I refer to the 
widespread physical deterioration that overtakes children during the 
first four or five years of life. This fact is well established by the 
medical inspection of elementary school children, the majority of 
whom prove to be physically unsound, most of their defects, more- 
over, being preventable. Clearly, therefore, it is to these earlier 
years, before schooling begins, that attention must be turned, if 
this deterioration is to be averted. The conditions can not be 
adequately met by postponing action until the children reach the 
minimum school age, by which time much suffering and not a little 
permanent damage will have been inflicted. What is needed is some 
form of medical supervision, together with facilities for remedial 
treatment, extending over the whole of the first lustrum. 

But with this problem only now unfolding itself, little or nothing 
has been done as yet by way of a solution. True, there are infant 
consultations in many parts of the country, but these, owing their 
inception to the movement against infant mortality, are concerned 
only with infants under one year. Since, however, as will be seen 
below, it is not until the second year at earliest that the physical 
defects of the future school entrants show themselves in any number, 
preventive measures limited to the first year are unlikely to have 
much influence in warding off these later troubles. In a word, a 
gap, at present unbridged, stretches from the first year, when the 
activities of the infant consultation ^ come to an end, to the fifth, 
when the school medical inspection begins. 

How, then, is the medical supervision of children under school age 
to be dealt with in present circumstances? Perhaps the most 
practical answer I can offer to this question is to submit for your 
consideration and discussion the plan adopted in this city of West- 
minster. Some two years ago the Westminster Health Society pre- 

' '• Consultation" is the name given to the centers where parents bring infants for medical advice. 



MEDICAL INSPECTION. 11 

pared a scheme for the medical supervision of these children, and in 
January, 1912, opened a medical inspection center for children under 
school age to serve the population in the north half of the city. The 
lines on which the center is conducted can be briefly summarized. 
With the cooperation of the public-health authorities^ information is 
received of aU births recorded under the notification of births act, 
and, with the help of a staff of health visitors^ the society at once 
gets into touch with every family where a child is newly born. 

In addition to these new-born infants, the center secures the 
attendance of older children up to 5 years, the same plan being fol- 
lowed as before. In this way the attempt has been made from the 
outset to include the whole of the under-school-age population of 
the district. The essence of the scheme, however, is to keep every 
child under medical supervision from the time of its birth until the 
end of its fifth year, and then to hand it over, sound and healthy, 
to the school authorities, together with the medical record of the 
material facts in its life for the information of the school doctor. 

The results of the first year's work are probably of sufficient in- 
terest to warrant their inclusion in this paper. Altogether, 374 
children have been examined, excluding reinspections. Of these, 
131 were under 1 year of age, 77 under 2 years, 83, 50, and 33 under 
3, 4, and 5 years, respectively. The outstanding feature of an 
analysis of the medical record cards is the rapid rise in the tide of 
disease with each year of life. For, while the large majority of the 
children in the first period are found to be healthy, only a small 
minority come through to their fifth year without at least one physical 
defect of some kind or another. This is most strikingly seen in cases 
of dental caries, a condition which is, probably, responsible for more 
ill health among children than any other. The increasing percentage 
of these cases in successive years is shown in the table below. It 
should further be added that, as a rule, the more advanced the age, 
the more extensive was the disease. A very similar rise is seen both 
with enlarged tonsils and with adenoids, while the proportion of 
these cases iii urgent need of surgical operation increases yearly, 
indicating, of course, the aggravation of the condition when left 
untreated. With rickets, on the other hand, the incidence reaches a 
maximum in the second year, thereafter rapidly declining; this 
disease, therefore, so often the cause of lifelong deformity, has in- 
flicted its damage long before school age. 

Altogether, the 374 children presented 332 defects. In addition, 
the feeding in a large proportion of the cases in the earliest years 
required some modification, great or small, and in almost one-half 
the cases under 1 year old needed revision in one way or another. 
The table following, showing the percentage of children affected in 
each year, summarizes the incidence of the most important defects. 



12 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

Physical defects of 374 children examined, by ages,. 





Under 
1 yenr. 


1 year. 


2 years. 


3 years. 


4 years. 


Teeth 




2.0 

7.8 

10.4 

25.9 

22. S 


18.1 

16.9 

22.9 

9.6 

6.0 


34.0 

24.0 

38.0 

8.0 


63.6 


Tonsils 




26.9 




1.5 
13.0 
49.6 


33.3 




3.0 













The practical conclusion from the point of view of prevention and 
curative treatment hardly needs stating. Suffice it to say there is 
no reason to suppose that the children examined at the center differ 
materially from other children of their class, at any rate in urban 
areas, and it is highly probable that, as similar inspection centers are 
organized elsewhere, the results will be, in the main, similar to those 
in Westminster. In other words, large numbers of children, healthy 
in all respects at birth, become within five years the physically 
defective entrants whom the education authority is required, at no 
small cost, to restore, so far as possible, to their original state of 
health. Yet most of these cases are .preventable, or, if taken in 
time, can be remedied more speedily, and therefore more cheaply, 
than if left.until school age, by which time not a few will have received 
permanent damage — physical or mental. The problem of the defect- 
ive child largely resolves itself into the problem of the under-school 
age child, and seems hardly likely to be solved by any scheme short 
of a national one insuring to all children regular medical supervision 
from birth to school age. And this, to be fully successful, must 
run side by side with educational measures for instructing the mothers 
themselves who, from ignorance far more than from willful neglect 
or even from indigence, are unable to safeguard their children's 
health. 



MEDICAL INSPECTION OF CHILDREN IN RURAL SCHOOLS. 

WiLUAM M. Jones, M. D., Health Officer of Guilford County, N.C. 
{Southern MedicalJournal, March, 1914-) 

Guilford County contains 672 square miles, with more than 100 
schools and 200 white teachers. The objects that we have worked 
for and are worldng for are two — education and prevention. Edu- 
cation of the masses, particularly the children, and the prevention 
of disease with the consequent conservation of life. 

Education: By means of lectures- and talks to the children, by 
pamphlets and bulletins, by press articles and notices, by illustrated 
lectures with lantern slides, dealing in an interesting and instructive" 
way with such subjects as typhoid fever, malaria, the fly, the mos- 



MEDICAL INSPECTION. l3 

quito, smallpox, etc.; by clinics, such as hookworm demonstrations, 
and in every way possible we bring before the schools and community 
the gospel of good health. 

Prevention: We have a large map of the county, on which is 
located every school. The doctors of the county report all dangerous 
diseases to the county board of health, giving the name and address 
of the parent and the school attended. As soon as the report is 
received, the teacher of that particular school is notified that the 
child has a dangerous disease, and that the other members of the 
family must be kept out of the school until further notice. A colored 
pin (different colors representing different diseases) is placed in the 
map at its proper location and is allowed to remain as long as there 
is danger of the disease being communicated. 

Then for the school building and grounds per se. Upon visiting 
the school (and we endeavor to go to each one during the session), 
we record on a card the condition of the grounds, whether well 
drained or not. Next the privies, the number and condition. (Here, 
by way of parentheses, we will say that so far as the so-called sanitary 
privy is concerned, it is impractical with us just yet, and, in fact, is 
more insanitary than the common outhouse. All we strive for is 
prevention of infection from fecal matter, and privacy.) The water 
is next considered — its location, whether on the grounds or at a resi- 
dence, and whether pump or bucket is used, and whether dispensed 
in a common or individual cup. The building is considered — the 
roof and chimney, heat and ventilation, and, when a structure of two 
stories, if a fire escape is handy or not. 

Of all this a record is kept, and also on this card may be seen what 
recommendations were made the previous year, and whether these 
recommendations have been carried out. 

We now enter the classroom, and refer to our card, whereon are 
recorded the names of those who were examined the previous year 
and found to be defective, and to whom individual cards were given, 
naming the special defect and advising parents or guardians to con- 
sult the family physician for treatment. The physician is asked to 
sign this card and mail it to the county board of health. This is a 
long journey for a little card to travel, and many are lost en route, so 
on our permanent card, whereon we have the record above mentioned 
in re the school, we also have the individual record of all defective 
children at the school. This is referred to and the children called up 
privately and asked if a card was not last year given them; if so, did 
they carry out the instructions, and if so, what was done. This is 
recorded on the card, and we then examine all new pupils and all 
who have not previously been examined. This examination includes 
the eyes, ears, nose, throat, teeth, skin, and special defects. 



14 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

The eyes are to be examined first by the teacher, who keeps a 
record of all that are found defective, and when the examiner visits 
the school he examines only those that the teacher reports. This is 
to expedite the work. 

The ears are examined by the teacher, who, if observant, soon 
notices any impairment without any set test. These are more fully 
examined by the examiner. 

The nose and throat are examined by means of direct sunlight and 
wooden tongue depressor. We examine every child in the primary 
and intermediate grades, and those in the high school who wish it. 
The teeth are examined at the same time with the throat. 

The skin is examined for impetigo contagiosa, scabies, etc. Also 
special defects, such as hookworm and anemia, are looked for. Those 
found defective are given a card, and a record is made, containing 
the name, address, and the particular defect. 

By these means we hope to relieve to some extent the country boy 
and girl of a part of their handicap in the attainment not only of an 
education, but of a better and happier life. 



THE AGE AND SEASONAL INCIDENCE OF DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 

Charles Herrman, M. D., Chief of Department for Diseases of Children, Vanderhilt Clinic, New York. 
{Archives of Pediatrics, October, 191S.) 

The patients were those who presented themselves for treatment 
from 1906 to 1910, inclusive, at the pediatric department of the Van- 
derhilt Clinic and the Lebanon Hospital dispensary, making a total 
of 32,000 new patients during these five years. 

Comparing the percentages for the different ages of the total 
number of children in New York City under 13 years with the per- 
centages of new cases at the different ages, we find the following: 

Percentage of child population and morbidity in New Yorh City, by ages. 



Morbidity. 




Under 1 year of age 

At 1 , 2, 3, and 4 years 

At 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 years 

At 10, 11, and 12 years 

The higher morbidity under 1 year is immediately apparent. It 
is still distinctly above the average under 5 years, and after that age 
it diminishes decidedly. 

The relative percentages of male and female patients under 13 
years show that the sexes are nearly equally divided. Of the total 
number, 52 per cent were male and 48 per cent female. The sexes 



CLOSING SCHOOLS DURING EPIDEMICS. 15 

therefore show an equal morbidity in each disease, and any marked 
discrepancy would indicate that one or the other sex is especially 
predisposed. 

[The charts show, for 179 cases of chorea, the largest numbers in 
July and June and the smallest numbers in October, November, and 
September; for 170 cases of acute rheumatism the largest numbers 
in ISIarch, May, and July, and the smallest numbers in September, 
December, and August; for 378 cases of acute follicular tonsillitis 
the largest numbers in November, March, and May, and the smallest 
numbers in February and January. In regard to several contagious 
diseases the statistics for New York City as a whole during 1910 and 
1911 were combined. The charts show, for 30,655 cases of diphtheria, 
the largest numbers in May, April, and March, and the smallest 
numbers in September, August, and October; for 34,943 cases of 
scarlet fever the largest numbers in March, April, and May, and the 
smallest numbers in September, August, and October; for 61,238 
cases of measles the largest numbers in May, April, and March, and 
the smallest numbers in September, October, and August; for 12,294 
cases of varicella (chicken pox) the largest numbers in May, March, 
and January, and the smallest numbers in August, September, and 
July; for 5,056 cases of pertussis (whoopmg cough) the largest num- 
bers in March, May, and January, and the smallest numbers in Octo- 
ber, November, and August.] 



SHALL WE CLOSE THE SCHOOLS DURING EPmEMICS? 

Francis George Curtis, M. D., Newton, Mass. 
(American Journal of Public Health, February, I914.) 

One factor necessary in checking an outbreak quickly is a knowledge 
of the cases at the earhest possible moment, in order to eliminate 
possible foci of infection by removing and isolating infected or suspi- 
cious cases, and the whole matter resolves itself into the answer to the 
question whether the board can best do this when the schools are open 
and the children under supervision or when the schools are closed and 
the children scattered. 

It seems to be almost a truism to say that the best work can be 
done under the first set of conditions. 

Another point which I fear is often overlooked is that, other things 
being equal, the work of the board should be done with as little dis- 
turbance of normal conditions as is compatible with efficiency. In 
other words, if the outbreak can be checked as quickly and efficiently 
without closing the schools as by closing them, the former alternative 
should be adopted. 



16 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

In Newton, in two instances lately where the outbreaks were due 
to missed cases that were in the school for some time before discovery, 
the first cases found were not children who sat near the infecthig cases, 
nor were they in the same grade, but were their playmates and com- 
panions out of school. 

Thus, in an outbreak of scarlet fever due to a missed case, the 
first case reported was a child in another grade in the school, but living 
at the end of the same street with and a playmate of the infecting 
case; the second case was a child in another school, but living next 
door to the infecting case; the third, fourth, and fifth cases, reported 
simultaneously, were a brother and sister of the infecting case and a 
playmate living across the street, none of them in the same grade. 
All of these cases, together with others, were traced to the infecting 
case, but of 11 cases due to this one, only 2 were in the same room at 
school. 

More recently, in an outbreak of diphtheria, the cases were simi- 
larly infected, the majority being found among the children in other 
rooms than the one in which the infecting case sat, but all living near 
and playing with him out of school. 

Of course no conclusions of any value can be drawn from so few 
instances; they are given for what they are worth, in the hope that 
further observations by others may confirm or disprove them, but so 
far as they go they seem to show that infection is not contracted in the 
schoolroom as frequently as is usually supposed. 

If the schools are closed when an outbreak occurs, the children 
are turned loose from supervision ; they mingle freely with one another 
in the streets, on playgrounds, and in each other's houses. They are 
having an extra vacation and enjojdng themselves thoroughly and 
are unwilhng to admit that they feel iU, lest they be kept at home and 
prevented from having a good time. For this reason they will not 
say they feel ill until the disease is well advanced, and they may be 
active sources of infection for some time before it is discovered that 
they are ill. 

If the schools are kept open and the children continue in the class- 
rooms as usual, they are under strict observation and examined daily 
by the school physician, suspicious and infected cases being sent home 
for observation or treatment. 

In this way many children are sent home before they have had an 
opportunity to infect others, thus reducing the probabiUty of spread- 
ing infection. Further than this, the attention of the parents is called 
to the fact that the child is feehng iU and he is brought under treat- 
ment earlier. 

It seems, therefore, that keeping the schools open offers the best 
chance of safety for the scholars, both collectively and individually. 



CLOSING SCHOOLS DURIISTG EPIDEMICS. 17 

Instead of closing the schools and allowmg the children to be scat- 
tered and removed from supervision, when an outbreak appears the 
schools should be kept open as usual and the children urged to attend. 
The school physician and nurse should be detailed to the school where 
the outbreak has appeared and instructed to examine every child 
daily, excluding such as appear ill or suspicious. This can be done 
with very little disturbance of the school work, A note must be sent 
to the parent stating that the child seems, or is, ill and must be seen by 
the family physician. Suspicious cases must be ordered to remain at 
home until further notice, and, if necessar}^', must be visited later in 
order to settle the diagnosis. Absentees must be rounded up and 
examined in order to find out why they have been kept at home. If 
they are ill, they must be isolated, and, if well, urged to return to 
school. 

Such a method of dealing with an outbreak may seem to entail a 
large amount of work and require a specialization which the ordinary 
board of health can not carry out, and it does entail more work than 
closing the schools and waiting for the outbreak to stop itself, but in 
reaUty it is not difficult. 

In a large city the necessary force is at hand and ready to start work; 
in smaller cities the number of cases to be handled is small and wiU 
probably be confined to one school, and the school physician can be 
detailed to the affected school during the outbreak, leaving the other 
schools m his district to be covered by one of his colleagues. 

Even if extra help should be required, a condition which will rarely 
occur, the extra expense incurred will be more than offset by the 
shortening of the duration of the outbreak and the lack of disturbance 
to the schools. 

Wlien the schools are closed, certain expenses, such as salaries, etc., 
continue without any return, and there is also an added economic loss 
from the lessening of the time for instruction, so that the children in 
the affected school or schools are behind others in the same grade in 
the unaft'ected schools. 

One practical difficulty which tends to lessen the value of keeping 
the schools open will be found in the fact that many children will be 
kept at home by their parents through ignorance of the facts or fea.r 
of infection. This can be met by a frank explanation of the reasons 
governing fhe action of the board in keeping the schools open. In 
the writer's experience it has often happened that after a frank ex- 
planation of this sort to a disturbed parent the result has been that 
the inquirer has sent his children back to school the next day, 
being convinced that they were fully as safe there as when they were 
kept out. 

74418° — 15 2 



18 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN'. 

THE PROPHYLAXIS OF MEASLES. 

John Ruhrah, M. D., Professor of Diseases of Children, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Baltimore. 
(New York MedicalJournal, Apr. S5, 1914.) 

As measles is so easily spread, and as almost every child sooner 
or later has the disease, many parents, and in fact many physicians, 
pay little or no attention to its prevention. Much can be done to 
prevent the spread of measles, also to prevent fatalities. One of 
the greatest factors in lessening the mortahty is to prevent children 
under 5 years of age from contracting it. In place of trying to shield 
young children, one often sees them purposely exposed to the disease 
in order that they may get it and have it over with. Many parents 
feel that if a child is eventually going to get measles, it might as well 
be allowed to have it early; but I have already pointed out the greater 
mortality of early childhood, which is an all-powerful incentive to 
prevent infection in the very young. 

The prevention of the disease is perhaps not as difficult as we imag- 
ine. If a child is isolated promptly in what is real isolation, measles 
is not particularly liable to jump its boundary. The fault usually is 
that the isolation is not carried out in a satisfactory manner. In 
some of the newer hospitals where infectious diseases are treated, it 
has been found that measles may be isolated in box compartments in 
which the partitions do not reach the ceihng in the room, but m which 
a strict medical asepsis is carried out by conscientious nurses and 
physicians. With our shocking disregard of the so-caUed ''minor" 
diseases in this country, and with httle or no municipal provision for 
their care in properly constructed hospitals, the problem becomes one 
for the individual physician and the individual family. One reason 
for failure up to the present time is the fact that measles can not be 
properly isolated in apartments, especially where there is overcrowd- 
ing ; but while this is true as regards any individual family, much can 
be done by keeping out children of other families, and adults as well, 
on the principle that the fewer persons that come in contact with a 
contagious disease the fewer are liable to contract it. 

The second point in the prophylaxis of measles is the closing of 
schools in the face of threatened epidemics. This protects the young 
child indirectly in that it lessens the danger of the older children in 
the family becoming infected and so bringing the disease back to the 
home to start a new focus of infection. In an epidemic in London, 
Raffle made a study of the effect of closing the schools, with the fol- 
lowing results: In this epidemic 4,470 children were exposed to in- 
fection; of these, 2,180 were susceptible to the disease; of these, 853 
were infected, 638 cases occurring during the time that the children 
were at school and 140 during the period of 14 days after which the 
school was closed; that is, 778 cases which might have been infected 



VACCINATION. 19 

either at school or in home life. Thus, at the time the schools were 
closed, there were still more than 1 ,400 children who were susceptible 
to measles, but only 75 of these children actually contracted the dis- 
ease. These figures show quite conclusively the enormous value of 
closing the schools in combating epidemics of measles. 

In order to be of any service the isolation should be started early, 
and in order to do this it is necessary to make at least a tentative 
diagnosis. The problem of diagnosis will depend on whether the 
child is under the supervision of a physician or not. In schools and 
in institutions for children in which there is anything like adequate 
medical inspection, the early cases of measles may usually be deter- 
termined by a number of diagnostic methods, if not with certainty 
at least with sufficient accuracy to isolate the child pending further 
developments . 

The prophylaxis of measles wdU be seen to depend on the isolation 
of cases, particularly in preventing well children from associating 
with those who are ill until a diagnosis has been made, upon the clos- 
ing of schools in the face of severe epidemics, and in the hospital treat- 
ment of the contagious diseases. 



VACCINATION.! 

George W. Gay, M. D. 
(^Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Apr. S, 1914.) 

As the direct result of wise legislation, Massachusetts has been 
practically free from the dreadful scourge of smallpox for 40 years. 
The present generation knows little or nothing of it. Only those who 
remember the last severe epidemic in Boston in 1872-73, when nearly 
4,000 were attacked and over 1,000 died, can begin to reahze the ter- 
ror, the distress, and the demorahzation of the daily activities of the 
community in consequence of its presence. The outside world 
shunned us. Business fell off to a marked extent, and the attention 
of the people was focused chiefly upon the state of the epidemic. 

This disease is preventable, but not curable. The chief factor in 
its prevention is vaccination. Its value has been incontestably 
demonstrated in aU civihzed countries for more than a hundred years. 
Time is wasted in arguments on this question in well-informed 
circles. Vaccination properly done and attended to is one of the 
safest surgical operations known to the medical profession. For 
nearly 10 years Massachusetts has prepared vaccine virus for dis- 
tribution to its citizens free of expense. About half a milHon doses 
have been sent out and used with no known iU results. No purer 
or more reliable virus has ever been made anywhere. 

1 General title of letter: " Antivaccination and the legislature." 



20 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEElSr. 

No one claims that accidents never occur after vaccination, as 
they occasionally do after the most trivial injuries. Within eight 
years the writer has seen one death from the prick of a pin and one 
arm amputated for the scratch of a needle, yet pins and needles have 
not been given up, nor has any legislation been sought to prohibit 
their use as yet. The risks of our everyday hfe far exceed those 
from vaccination, while the benefits derived from the latter surpass 
our comprehension. The accidents are preventable. They are so 
rare that they are a negligible factor in the question. 

Vaccination is favored by the medical profession all over the 
civihzed world, by the sanitarians, health ofiicers, and all others hav- 
ing to do with health problems, together with a very large proportion 
of the intelhgent public everywhere. The alacrity with which 
the general public resorts to vaccination in times of danger shows 
their confidence in the measure. The evidence in its favor is so 
overwhelming that one is lost in amazement that its value can be 
questioned in these enhghtened days. Is it reasonable to suppose 
for a moment that the great mass of intelhgent people the world 
over is wrong on this matter and that the few persistent agitators 
are right ? If the wonderful benefit of vaccination has not been 
proved, then nothing in the world is susceptible of proof. 



CUTANEOUS AFFECTIONS OF CHILDHOOD. 

Alfred Schalek, M. D., Professor of Dermatology, University of Nebraska. 
{Journal of the American Medical Association, July 19, WIS.) 

Skin diseases, especially of the acute type, occur proportionally 
more frequently in children than in adults. The reason for this is 
not far to seek. Local and general conditions combine to reduce the 
normal resistance of the skin and to increase its susceptibihty to 
pathologic changes. Exposures to injurious external agencies of 
mechanical and microbic nature are more common in childhood. 
Lack of proper hygiene influences the condition of the skin con- 
siderably. Keeping the skin clean and soft is the best prophylaxis 
against trouble, but unfortunately there are wrong conceptions about 
this matter even among intelhgent people. Harmful extremes are 
seen repeatedly. There is no need of speaking of the fact that quite a 
number of eruptions are due directly to dirt. This acts on the skin 
mechanically and chemically, producing dermatitis and eczema and 
by harboring pus cocci, induces secondary infections such as impetigo 
and furunculosis. On the other hand the modern tendency to carry 
the use of water too far also does a great deal of mischief. Hebra, 
the Nestor of dermatology, used to say that he observed more skin 



CUTANEOUS AFFECTIONS. 21 

troubles in people who were overactive bathers than in those who 
were too sparing with their ablutions. The too frequent washing 
of the skin removes the natural lubrication without giving the fat- 
producing glands a chance to accomphsh their duties. The skin 
grows dry and irritable, especially when an inherited tendency in 
that direction is present, and easily becomes a prey to skin diseases. 
The matter of soaps is quite important in this connection. In- 
quiries about them will often clear up the obscure cause of some 
obstinate skin trouble. Only the purest and mildest soaps should be 
employed for the skin of children, which is very tender and sensitive. 
There is no call for admixtures of chemicals or drugs in them. If 
these are needed, they can be applied miore properly and accurately 
in other ways. At times the infantile skin does not tolerate water and 
soap at aU. Trying to remove the scales and crusts with stiU more 
scrubbing is responsible for a vicious circle resulting in severe and 
apparently incurable skin eruptions. 

A great factor in the prevalence of skin diseases in older children 
is the public school. Childhood is the only age at which a great 
number of persons come into promiscuous and intimate contact 
during the greatest part of the time. It would be interesting and 
instructive to learn the percentage of skin diseases originating in the 
schoolroom. Disseminated here are syphiHs, tuberculosis, scabies, 
trichophytosis, impetigo, the acute infectious exanthems, and 
others. Is this not sufficient reason that wherever medical inspection 
of schools is obligatory the examining physician should have more 
than a smattering knowledge of dermatology? 

The instability of metabolism and elimination in childhood are 
frequently contributing factors toward cutaneous affections. Their 
direct connection with urticaria is well known. The association of 
indigestion of fat and sugar with acute inflammatory eczemas has 
recently been pointed out by Towle and Talbot. Whether we 
beheve skin eruptions to be purely local or not, the regulation of gastro- 
intestinal functions is always an important item of our therapeutics. 

The diet of older children needs careful supervision. The mistake 
of allowing them to partake indiscriminately of whatever food is 
served to adults is commonly made. When it is considered how 
often they are fed on sausage, cheese, pickles, sweets, and other in- 
digestible food up to the limit, it seems remarkable that no more 
harm is done. The control over the eating is stiU more important 
when the children are affected with skin diseases, and at times a 
plain milk diet becomes imperative. 

Disturbances of the nervous system have more to do with causing 
skin diseases than is generally appreciated. The connection of 
dentition and eczema is probably due to such a cause. Rest and 



22 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

sleep are essential for the cure of acute skin diseases in children. Too 
much handling and petting of the sick child makes it irritable and 
restless and interferes with the efficiency of the treatment. It is a 
common experience to see children recover in a hospital under the 
same treatment which, applied by the mother at home, has proved a 
failure. 

Another feature which distinguishes the cutaneous affections of 
children is their deviation in symptomatology from that of adults. 
The lesions differ both in degree and in type. They assume a more 
acute and inflammatory character. To one who has not given a spe- 
cial study to the skin diseases of children, a diagnosis may become 
extremely difficult at times. The rule observed in adults, to depend 
for the diagnosis on some characteristic primary lesion, does not 
always hold good in children. It wiU be necessary not only to con- 
sider the existing cutaneous manifestations and the general symp- 
toms, but also to study closely the developments and changes due to 
the peculiarities of childhood. 

In regard to the therapeutics of cutaneous affections of childhood, 
two general rules might be laid down : 

The first is the correction of any causative or aggravating comphca- 
tion. This point has already been partly referred to. A few words 
may be added in regard to the internal administration of drugs. It 
is better to do too httle in this direction than too much. There are 
only a very few drugs that have any direct action on the skin. Those 
used for adults, such as arsenic, mercury, iodids, etc., must be used 
with great caution, partly on account of their general effects, partly 
because the child's skin is much more liable to drug dermatitis which 
might comphcate or disguise the original trouble. The drugs usually 
needed are simple and indicated by the internal compHcations. An 
occasional purge with calomel or some other laxative, some iron tonic, 
and possibly a diuretic is usually aU that is necessary. Antipyretics 
and opiates should be avoided as much as possible. The second 
general rule apphes to the local management. It should be rather 
conservative than aggressive. The natural tendency of the skin is to 
recover to a normal condition if given a chance. Protection of the 
diseased skin is of the utmost importance. This means avoidance of 
irritations of whatever nature, exposure to air, water, heat or cold, 
scratching, the action of physiologic and pathologic secretions, from 
old and dried-up apphcations, etc. The number of the local appHca- 
tions which are necessary is limited. The tender skin of children 
does not tolerate and does not need any strong and stimulating action. 
The efficiency of the treatment does not depend so much on the knowl- 
edge of a great many different remedies as on the skill to recognize the 
indications and the proper method of application. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 23 

GENERAL SYMPTOMS AND SIGNIFICANCE OF HOOKWORM DISEASE.^ 

C. M. Fauntleroy, Passed Assistant Surgeon, United States Public Health Service. 
{American Journal of Tropical Diseases and Preventive Medicine, April, 1914.) 

Inasmuch as the disease presents a very variable picture according 
to the severity of the infection, the length of time the infection has 
existed, and the amount of resistance shown by the patient toward 
the infection, it is manifestly impracticable to designate a Hst of 
symptoms as being characteristic of all cases of hookworm disease. 
When the disease is acquired prior to puberty, development, both 
physical and mental, is retarded, such persons having the appearance 
of being considerably younger than they really are, because of the 
evident lack of development. Anemia, more or less marked, is a 
prominent symptom, and such cases usually show the circulatory and 
respiratory symptoms of anemia. An apathy and lack of energy are 
very commonly associated with hookworm disease, so that in some 
sections of the country the condition has received the name of ''lazy 
disease." Many persons who harbor hookworm infection continue 
to attend to their daily affairs, and to all appearances are enjoying 
good health. However, if a careful inquiry be made as to the general 
health of such persons extending over a period of several months, it 
will be found that in the majority of cases there will be a history of a 
considerable amount of minor ilhiesses and more or less physical 
incapacity. In women sterility and delayed menstruation are com- 
monly met with. Many persons complain of epigastric discomfort 
or pain. There may be anorexia and a craving for unusual articles 
of food. Constipation is exceedingly common, but diarrhea occurs 
once in a while. 

"Ground itch" is the local lesion usually found upon the feet or 
hands, very commonly between and beneath the toes, through which 
the parasites enter the body. There is an eruption of vesicles, fol- 
lowed by pustules and a sticky exudate. The adjacent skin becomes 
red and swoUen. The dermatitis usually subsides within 12 days; 
the vesicles and pustules become dry and are exfohated. 

A person who harbors hookworm infection may possibly remain 
more or less infected for a period of 10 or 12 years, exclucHng any 
reinfection. Hookworm disease is responsible, directly and indi- 
rectly, for an enormous number of deaths, illnesses, and incapacity 
among the poorer classes in heavily infected areas. It is probable 
that a large number of the deaths certified as due to anemia, dropsy, 
and malaria, in some hookworm infected areas, are in reaUty due to 
unrecognized hookworm disease. 

In the United States, in the South Atlantic and Gulf States, con- 
taining about 20,000,000 people, the degree of infection is very heavy, 

' General title of article: "Ankylostomiasis (or Hookworm Disease)". 



24 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

and the general efficiency of the laboring classes is markedly impaired. 
It is estimated that in this section of our country the loss of money by 
reason of the direct and indirect effects of hookworm disease will reach 
several millions of dollars per annum, aside from the loss to the coun- 
try in the degenerating effects produced by the disease, and the con- 
sequent delayed development of the various industries throughout 
this section of the country. Stiles has shown that more than 12 per 
cent of cotton-mill employees in the Southern States are infected. 
The loss to this industry alone must be great, because of the incapaci- 
tating effects of the disease. In the mines of CaUfornia the general 
efficiency of the workers is noticeably impaired, many of the men 
being compelled to discontinue their work because of the disease. 
A loss of 20 per cent in efficiency in those infected is considered a 
conservative estimate. Nearly aU of the gold mines of California 
contain the infection, as well as a goodly number of the agricultural 
laborers of the State, so that this one State must suffer a great loss in 
various ways by reason of the disease. 

In the infected communities it is common to ffiid whole families 
showing a marked degree of illiteracy, which is traceable to the dis- 
abling effects of the disease, and in many instances it is learned that 
for several generations none of these people have so much as entered 
a school. A proper appreciation by the general pubhc of the incalcu- 
lable importance of this disease in all its manifold bearings upon the 
welfare of the Nation is certainly urgently needed. Hookworm dis- 
ease bequeaths a pernicious legacy to the infected communities, its 
work being done in a subtle, insidious manner, weakening the race 
generation after generation, always tending to produce a condition 
of physical, intellectual, economic, and moral degeneracy. 

The most essential factor in spread of the disease is the pollution 
of the soil by the fecal discharges of infected persons. The preven- 
tion of soil pollution by hookworm-infected persons means eradication 
of the disease, and a marked improvement in the general health 
and prosperity of the community. Inasmuch as there is an abund- 
ance of indisputable evidence to show that this disease and many 
other parasitic diseases are spread broadcast over the country by soil 
pollution, causing many deaths, much sickness, poverty, and expense 
in the affected communities, there should be strict compulsory laws 
prohibiting pollution, and any failure to comply therewith should be 
punishable by heavy fines and imprisonment. In many rural dis- 
tricts the sanitary condition which obtains with respect to the disposal 
of human excreta is, from a sanitary standpoint, not one whit better 
than that of the dumb animals in the community. The deposition 
of aU human excerta in sanitary privies, and the proper disposal 
thereof, is the sanitary reform most urgently needed in the infected 



TYPHOID FEVER. 25 

districts. All fresh human fecal material should be regarded as a 
virulent poison and disposed of accordingly. 

The hookworm ova are discharged mixed with the feces of the 
infected person, many thousand escaping from a single person in the 
course of 24 hours, as a rule. Under favorable concUtions the eggs 
develop into worms, some of which are almost certain to find their 
way back to the human host. This process goes on and on, from 
person to person, until a widespread infection results. 



RULES FOR PREVENTING TYPHOID FEVER. 

Edwin O. Jordan, Professor of Hygiene and Bacteriology, University of Chicago. 
(Journal of the American Medical Association, June 6, 1914.) 

For the individual: 

1. Keep away from all known or suspected cases of typhoid. 

2. Wash hands thoroughly before meals. Do not use "roller 
towels." 

3. Use drinking water only from sources known to be pure, or if 
this is not possible, use water that has been purified by municipal 
filtration or by hypochlorite treatment or by boiling in the household. 

4. Avoid bathing in polluted water. 

5. Use pasteurized or boiled, instead of raw, milk. 

6. Select and clean with the greatest care vegetables and berries 
that are to be eaten raw. 

7. Avoid eating "fat" raw oysters and, in general, oysters and 
other shellfish whose origin is not known. 

8. Be vaccinated against typhoid in all cases in which any special 
exposure is known or feared. 

For the community: 

1 . Insist on the hearty cooperation of all persons with an efficient 
health officer. 

2. Require notification and a reasonable degree of isolation of 
every known or suspected typhoid case. 

3. Exercise strict control over the disinfection of known typhoid 
excreta. 

4. Insist on pure or purified water supplies. 

5. Require pasteurization of milk supplies. 

6. Regard all human excreta as possibly dangerous and control 
their disposition in such a way as to prevent contamination of food 
or drink. 



26 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

CARDIAC DISEASE IN CHILDHOOD, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO 

PROGNOSIS. 

Chakles Hunter Dunn, M. D., Boston. 
(American Journal of Diseases of Children, August, 1913.) 

In 1906 I reported the results of an investigation of certain clinical 
aspects of rheumatic fever in childhood, which was based on a series 
of 300 consecutive patients admitted to the wards of the Children's 
Hospital. Of these 300 patients, 209 were discharged from the 
hospital with signs of organic valvular disease of the heart. The after 
history of these cases appeared to me to be a point of great interest, 
with a practical value bearing directly on the question of prognosis, 
and on certain aspects of treatment. I determined at the time to 
keep in communication, as far as possible, with all of these discharged 
patients, and at the same time the scope of the investigation was 
extended beyond the limit of cardiac disease of rheumatic origin, by 
including all other patients of cardiac disease admitted to the hos- 
pital during the period from which the original series was taken. 
Cases of patients who subsequently died from intercurrent infection 
were thrown out. 

One of the features of greatest interest in such an investigation is 
the amount of disability carried into adult life, or at least young adult 
life, by these patients. It was therefore necessary to foUow the 
after history of these patients for a period sufficiently long to afford 
evidence on this point. The period in which the cardiac patients of 
this series were admitted to the hospital was that of a number of 
years previous to the summer of 1903. I resolved to foUow the cases 
discharged from the hospital until all of them should have entered 
at least young adult life, taldng the age of 14 years as the termination 
of childhood. All of these patients have now passed this limit, the 
youngest survivor having reached the age of 15 years. 

ETIOLOGY. 

The series of cases included m this investigation numbers 304 
cases of cardiac disease. It throws a certain amount of light on the 
relative frequency of occurrence of the various etiologic factors. 

Causes of cardiac disease in 304 cases. 



Causes. 




Per cent. 



Ilheumatic fever 

Congenital lesions 

Soiiie recognized infection other than rheumatic fever . 
Unknown etiology 



[Then follows a discussion of the specific cardiac diseases.] 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 27 

CONCLUSIONS. 

1. Rheumatic fever is very much the commonest cause of cardiac 
disease in childhood. 

2. Cases with acute rheumatic infection locahzed in the heart are 
commoner than cases suffering from chronic endocarditis. 

3. Cardiac symptoms are due to two causes: First, acute infection 
localized in the heart: second, broken cardiac compensation. Of 
these two causes the first is the commoner. 

4. The Uability of children to recurrent attacks of acute rheu- 
matic infection, in any of which the heart may be involved, is very 
great. 

5. The immediate mortality of rheumatic cardiac disease is about 
20 per cent. 

6. The subsequent mortality of patients with endocarditis of rheu- 
matic origin, followed for at least 10 years, is about 50 per cent. 

7. The final mortality of rheumatic fever, followed for at least 10 
years, is 60 per cent. 

8. The mortahty is seen chiefly during childhood. The mortality 
after young adult life is reached falls to only 7 per cent. 

9. The cause of death is heart failure. The cause of the heart 
failure may be either acute cardiac infection or broken compensa- 
tion. In childhood the former cause is far the more common. 
After adult fife is reached, the latter cause is more common. 

10. The particular valvular lesion present has little or no relation 
either to the mortahty or to the amount of disability in adult life, 
except that aortic disease appears to be a particularly fatal lesion in 
childhood. 

1 1 . The causes of the great mortality of rheumatic fever in children 
are, first, their greater liabihty to this infection; second, their greater 
Habihty to recurrent attacks; third, their greater habihty to cardiac 
involvement. 

12. Patients who escape the dangers of childhood and who enter 
adult fife are apt to show a remarkable freedom from disabihty. 
The majority of such patients can lead normal active lives. 

13. The probable cause of this freedom from disability lies in the 
fact that the cardiac damage occurs during the period of growth, 
and during this period a particularly perfect adaptation can take 
place between the heart and the patient, which enables the heart to 
meet the demands made upon it. This adaptation is more perfect 
than can be attained in the adult. 

14. The earlier in life the cardiac lesion is acquired, the better is 
apt to be the result m adult fife, as concerns abihty to lead an active, 
normal existence, provided that the patient escapes the dangers of 
childhood. 



28 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

15. Treatment should be directed toward favoring, the adaptation 
of child and heart. While guardmg against overstrain we must 
avoid too great limiting of the normal activities of childhood. 

16. In congenital cardiac disease open ductus arteriosus is a 
favorable lesion. 



SYMPTOMS OF RHEUMATISM IN CHILDHOOD.' 

H. P. Dawson, M. D., Pediatrisi to St. Margaret's Hospital, Montgomery, Ala. 
(Southern MedicalJournal, April, 1914-) 

Rheumatism is one of the many diseases that illustrate the con- 
siderable difference which may exist between the manifestations of 
one and the same disease — when it occurs in an adult and when it 
occurs in a child. Rhemnatic inflammation of the fibrous tissues is 
a common affection in early life. In childhood, indeed, there appears 
to be a peculiar tendency to rheumatism, and in children the disease 
may assume many different phases. 

The conception of rheumatism as essentially a joint disease is based 
on its occurrence in adolescent and adult life. The wider and almost 
certainly more accurate conception of rheumatism as a general dis- 
ease, probably of infective origin, is based chiefly on its manifesta- 
tion in childhood. 

The symptoms of rheumatism hi childhood differ from those in 
adults chiefly in the much slighter character of the joint manifesta- 
tions and in the much greater prominence and frequency of the heart 
affections. 

Chnical experience shows that pains referred to the limbs, as 
distinguished from the joints, may be just as significant of rheuma- 
tism in children as swollen, red, and tender joints. This is proved by 
the fact that it is quite common for children with only such vague 
"pains in the limbs," for example, in the calf or thigh, to show other 
symptoms of ''acute rheumatism,'' such as endocarditis and peri- 
carditis or subcutaneous nodules; moreover, definite sweUmg and 
tenderness of the joints may immediately precede or follow these 
pains in the limbs. The practical importance of recognizing the 
significance of these slight pains in the limbs of children — "growing 
pains" as they are too often called — can hardly be overrated. 

In connection with the joint symptom I may mention that Sir 
Thomas Barlow has called attention to the frequency of affection of 
the hip joint in the rheumatism of childhood. Rheumatism, in some 
instances, remains limited to one joint for several days, and when it 
affects the hip joint may easily suggest commencmg tuberculous 
disease or may lead to stranger errors, owing to the very indefinite 
localization of pain in children. About one year ago I was called in 



SYMPTOMS OF RHEUMATISM IN CHILDHOOD. 29 

consultation to see a supposed case of intussusception, which a few 
days later was followed by definite symptoms of rheumatism else- 
where. 

Another symptom which is of unportance because it may be the 
earliest manifestation of rheumatism in a child is stiff neck. This 
may seem a trivial affection, but, like the vague pains and stiffness 
in the limbs, it may be followed or accompanied by severe cardiac 
rheumatism. 

The frequency of cardiac affections is one of the most character- 
istic features of rheumatism in childhood. Sir George Still reports, 
in 170 as far as possible consecutive cases with rheumatic manifesta- 
tions, 128 had cardiac bruits, which in 93 cases were certainly due to 
endocarditis. 

But endocarditis and pericarditis are by no means the only results 
of cardiac rheumatism, and in children, probably to a greater extent 
than in adults, cardiac dilatation is a frequent result of rheumatism, 
an important point to which Dr. Lees has specially drawn attention. 

It may not be out of place to mention here the wasting which so 
often accompanies cardiac rheumatism in childhood. I have had 
two cases brought to me with this only complaint, tlio mother not 
suspecting rheumatism or cardiac disease. However, on inquiry 
there was a history of vague pains in the limbs for many months past. 

In England great stress is laid upon the rheumatic nodule as a 
manifestation of rheumatism in children. These nodules may occur 
also with chorea without other clinical evidence of rheumatism, a 
point wliich is worthy of note in considering the relation of chorea 
to rheumatism. 

Amongst the sj^mptoms of rheumatism in children, as in adults, 
must be reckoned sore throat. Tonsillitis so frequently occurs just 
before the onset of rheumatic pains in children that it is difficult to 
escape the conclusion that it bears some direct relation, possibly as 
medium of mfection, to rheumatism. Its occurrence also is sometimes 
foUowed by an exacerbation of rheumatism. 

There are certain minor symptoms, which, although not usuall}^ 
described as symptoms of rheumatism, seem to have a very close 
connection therewith, for example, "pain in the stomach," which is 
usually referred to the epigastrium. Another symptom which I have 
noticed is pam m the side, usually in the lower part of one axilla. A 
common trouble in rheiunatic children and in the children of rheu- 
matic parents is headache. The rheumatic child is par excellence the 
nervous child. 

The frequency of rheumatism is also seen in association with 
"night terror," somnambulism, habit spasm, and lienteric diarrhea. 

The importance of early recognition of rheumatism in children will 
be reahzed by those who are familiar with the frequency of heart 



30 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

disease in the rheumatic child. I suppose there are few more pitiful 
conditions than that of the child dying with cardiac rheumatism, and 
it is by paying attention to " the day of small things," the apparently 
trivial aches and pains, and the various associations which make up 
the picture of rheumatism in childhood, that we may hope, in some 
cases at least, to prevent these terrible results which are too often 
seen from neglected rheumatism in children. 



A STUDY OF THE CHILD IN THE TUBERCULOUS MILIEU. 

Maurice Fishberg, M. D., Physician to the United Hebrew Charities, New York. 
(Archives of Pediatrics, February and March, 1914-) 

This investigation was made of all the children of tuberculous 
apphcants for reUef to the United Hebrew Charities in New York 
City during the three months, March, April, and May, 1913, taken as 
they came, without any selection. After ascertaining that either the 
father or mother was tuberculous, or both of the parents, we pro- 
ceeded to investigate the social, economic, and hygienic conditions 
of the family, and all the children under 15 years of age were exam- 
ined medically and the cutaneous tuberculin test applied. About 
four months later each child was reexamined, and those who reacted 
negatively to the first tuberculin test were again tested according to 
the Von Pirquet method. 

The children in 217 families, m which the father, mother, or both 
parents were found tuberculous, were investigated. They were 
found Hving under conditions greatly favoring the dissemination of 
the disease. Of 274 consumptives found among these people, only 
112 slept in a separate room, and 136 slept in beds by themselves. 
The rest shared their rooms, or beds, or both, with other persons. 
Their economic condition can be summed up by saying that they were 
at the end of their resources, otherwise they would not have applied 
for rehef. Inasmuch as these children were burdened by both a 
deleterious environment and a ibamted heredity, they should offer 
splendid material for the study of the effects of the tuberculous milieu 
on children. 

Of the 1,129 persons comprised in this group of famihes, 792 were 
under 15 years of age. Nearly aU of these children were reared on 
breast milk, only 5.5 per cent having been brought up on artificial 
feeding. The proportion reacting to tubercuhn was not found to 
have been influenced by the manner of feeding during infancy. Some 
mothers suft'ering from active tuberculosis were found suckling their 
infants, and the latter apparently thrived as well as others of their 
class; many, however, infected them with active tuberculosis. 



THE TUBERCULOUS MILIEU. 31 

The weight of the infants was fairly normal, but the children over 
4 years of age were deplorably short in weight when compared with 
others of their class. At the age of 8 they lacked 3.67 kilograms, 
and at 14 even 7 kilograms of the average. During the six months 
they were kept under observation, one-half remained stationary in 
weight, 40 per cent had lost and 10 per cent had gained in weight. 

The form and shape of the chest was normal in 62.5 per cent of 
the children; 27.5 per cent had fiat chests; and 10 per cent rachitic 
chests. The large proportion of flat chests is not necessarily an 
indication of the habitus phthisicus, because Jewish people are known 
for their fiat chests. 

In 8 per cent of the children enlarged superficial thoracic veins 
were found. In children in whom a diagnosis of tuberculosis was 
made 37.5 per cent showed these enlarged vems and three-fourths 
were unilateral. Of the children showing signs of latent tubercu- 
losis, 25 per cent had enlarged thoracic veins. 

The cervical glands were swollen in 67.8 per cent of the children; 
swollen glands in the axilla, groin, etc., were exceedingly rare. Only 
one child was found with enlarged supraclavicular glands, and it had 
other symptoms and signs of tuberculosis. 

Hyperplastic conditions of the nose, throat, and pharynx, such as 
enlarged tonsils, adenoids, chronic rhinitis, etc., were found in 58.6 
per cent of the children. Scrofula was rather infrequent. Our 
investigation tends to confirm the opinion that these hyperplastic 
conditions, as well as scrofula, have nothing in common with tubercu- 
losis. The external stigmata of tuberculosis, such as scrofuloderma, 
tubercuhdes, phlyctenula, glandular blepharitis and conjunctivitis, 
keratitis, etc., were exceedingly rare among these children. 

The cutaneous tubercuUn test, apphed twice and three times to 
those who reacted negatively to the first apphcation, was found posi- 
tive in 7 per cent of infants between 1 and 6 months of age. Between 
6 months and 1 year of age 21 per cent of the infants reacted posi- 
tively. The percentage of positive reactions keeps on increasing with 
advancing age, and at 14 years 83.79 per cent were found infected 
with tuberculosis. When compared with the results obtained by 
others who reported the apphcation of the tuberculin test to a large 
number of children, it appears that the tuberculous milieu has not 
materially increased the number infected with tuberculosis among the 
children over 6 years of age. In other cities it was found that about 
the same percentage, or even more, react positively. But among 
the infants under 4 years of age the proportion infected is considerably 
higher among those who Hve in a tuberculous milieu. Comparing 
our results with those obtained in rural districts, where but few con- 
sumptives come in contact with the children, we find that children 
in cities, especially those who live with tuberculous parents^ are at 
a great disadvantage, and that infection is inevitable among them. 



32 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

Among the 692 children, 65 were found to be suffering from active 
tuberculosis. Of these, 13 had tuberculosis of the bones and joints, 

4 Pott's disease, 2 spina ventosa, and 1 tuberculosis of the glands. 
With active pulmonary tuberculosis 19 children were found, and 25 
with tracheo-bronchial adenitis. 

The mortahty of children under 14 among these families was rather 
high. Of 188 children under 6 that died, 30 succumbed to menin- 
gitis; i. e., 16 per cent of all the deaths of children under 6 years of 
age were due to meningitis, which is enormous when compared with 
the 2 per cent of deaths due to this cause among the general popula- 
tion. While only 17, or 7.3 per cent, of all the deaths were said by 
the mothers to have been due to pulmonary tuberculosis, it must 
be borne in mind that in 79 cases the parents stated that the deaths 
were due to unknown causes. Many of these were undoubtedly due 
to tuberculosis, which, during infancy, is not always diagnosed. 

The opinion entertained by many authors that infants under 1 
year of age when infected by tuberculosis do not survive the disease 
is only partly supported by our investigation. We have seen among 
these children many who were undoubtedly infected during the first 
few months of their existence, yet they survived and even present a 
healthy appearance. However, it appears from our observations of 
the child in tuberculous milieu that the prognosis depends largely 
on the age at which infection takes place, and that the danger of 
tuberculosis as a fatal disease among children is in an inverse ratio 
to the age at which they are infected. Those infected during the 
first two years of life are in grave danger of succumbing to hema- 
togenous tuberculosis, notably tuberculous meningitis. Children over 

5 years of age when infected show only signs of latent tuberculosis, 
and chronic phthisis is rather rare among them. 

Massive infection, such as we found among these children, is the 
most potent factor in the propagation of tuberculosis. Prophylactic 
measures taken against the spread of tuberculosis to be effective 
must be directed with a view to protection of infants against any 
contact with tuberculous persons and older children against massive 
infections such as have been met with in the families we found living 
in a tuberculous milieu. 



TUBERCULOUS BRONCHIAL GLANDS IN CHILDREN.' 

John B. Hawes, 2d, M. D., Boston, Mass. 
{Interstate Medical Journal, March, 1914-) 

Tuberculosis in childhood is primarily a disease of the lymphatic 
system. By the time the lung itself is involved, the process is a 

1 General title of article: "Intrathoracic Tuberculosis in Infancy and Childhood, including Bronchia 
Gland Tuberculosis." 



TUBERCULOUS BRONCHIAL GLANDS. 33 

well- advanced one, and one that offers no difficulty in diagnosis. In 
this article, therefore, I shall confine my remarks to the diagnosis 
of the disease in its early stages, when the bronchial lymph glands 
are ajffected and little or none of the lung itself is involved. Here, 
as in adults, the importance of constitutional signs and symptoms 
can not be given too much emphasis. Only in the rarest of instances, 
even with X-ray evidence, is it possible to decide definitely from 
the examination of the chest alone that tuberculous bronchial glands 
are present, and, of still greater importance, that they are tlie cause 
of the symptoms. 

These constitutional signs and symptoms above referred to may 
be as follows: (A) Loss of weight, or, of greater importance, failure 
to gain weight; (B) malnutrition, despite what seems to be adequate 
and proper nourishment; (C) continuous fever, or a constantly sub- 
normal temperature associated with a high pulse; (D) anemia; (E) 
debility, languor, undue fatigue, irritabiUty, loss of appetite, or a 
capricious appetite. 

It is true that any or all of these symptoms or conditions may be 
due to causes other than tuberculosis. These should be carefully 
borne in mind and eliminated if possible. Such conditions, however, 
as rickets, chorea, endocarditis, improper feeding, etc., if present, are 
usually strikingly evident. When these symptoms exist without 
apparent cause, even if the signs in the limgs are slight or absent, it 
is safe to make at least a provisional diagnosis of a tuberculous infec- 
tion as the cause of symptoms. When, in addition to these, there 
are present certain signs and symptoms referred to the lungs, the 
diagnosis is conclusive. Such signs and symptoms referred to the 
lungs may be : 

(A) Cough, usually dry and throaty, often of brassy quality and 
paroxysmal in nature, sometimes closely resembling whooping cough. 
There is usually no sputum and no obvious cause for such a cough, 
such as enlarged tonsils, etc. 

(B) Impairment of resonance at the level of the second intercostal 
space in front and in the interscapular region behind. 

(C) Bronchial breathing and bronchial whispered voice heard on 
auscultation over the vertebrae below normal limits. 

CD) Signs of intrathoracic pressure, such as enlarged veins on the 
chest, unequal pupils, hoarseness, paroxysmal ''brassy" cough, and 
a peculiar strident or sibilant quality to the breath sounds. 

(E) Enlarged tuberculous glands in the neck or elsewhere, suggest- 
ing the possibility of similar glands at the root of the lung. 

It is in the case of children that the tuberculin test finds its greatest 
field of usefulness. The Von Pirquet, or cutaneous, test is by far 
the best one to employ. The technique of this is already well 

74418°— 15 3 



34 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

known, and is so simple as to require no description. In this test a 
negative reaction is of more value than a positive one. A negative 
skin tuberculin reaction in a child of 10 years or under, carefully 
performed, is as good evidence as can be obtained that tuberculosis 
is not the cause of the child's condition. This statement of course 
assumes that none of these conditions, such as advanced tuberculosis 
in the lungs or elsewhere, a recent attack of measles or other acute 
disease, which have been known to cause a negative reaction, is 
present. 

A positive skin tuberculin reaction, while of great importance, by 
itself is not enough on which to base a diagnosis of clinical tubercu- 
losis. It simply means that somewhere in the child's body there is 
a tuberculous focus. If, in addition to a positive reaction, constitu- 
tional signs and symptoms are present, even without any of those 
referred to the lungs as mentioned above, a definite diagnosis of 
tuberculosis, requiring prompt and aggressive treatment, is justified. 

The X ray, like the tuberculin test, in my opinion is of far greater 
value in children than in adults. While it is only in comparatively 
advanced cases that tuberculous bronchial glands are of such size 
as to cause marked dullness or other very striking signs in the chest, 
a careful X-ray examination, made and interpreted by an expert, 
will show such glands long before they have attained great size, 
although quite capable of producing marked constitutional symp- 
toms. It should also be borne in mind that the X ray after all shows 
only shadows and gives absolutely no indication as to whether any 
given process is old or recent, active or inactive. X-ray evidence 
alone never justifies a definite diagnosis of what we know as clinical 
tuberculosis. 



RESULTS OF JOINT TUBERCULOSIS IN A SERIES OF 200 CASES UNDER 
OBSERVATION FOR FIVE OR MORE YEARS. 

Frank D. Dickson, M. D., and De Forest P. Willaed, M. D., Instructors in Orthopedic Surgery, 

University of Pennsylvania. 

{Pennsylvania Medical Journal, June, 1914.) j 

Our statistics are based on a series of 200 cases collected from the 
records of the orthopedic department of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania and the Orthopedic Hospital, from the services of Dr. Davis 
and the late Dr. Willard. Of these cases 71 were tuberculosis of the 
spine, 82 of the hip, 3-3 of the knee, 14 of the other joints. The two 
points which were considered essential in the collection of the series 
were that the cases should have been under observation for five 
years from the time that treatment was started and that the diag- 
nosis of joint tuberculosis was well proved. 



STATE CARE OF CRIPPLED CHILDREN. 35 

The treatment throughout has been distinctly conservative and 
was practically identical in the two services. In the main this falls 
into three classes — treatment in bed, treatment by plaster cast, and 
treatment by brace. By bed treatment we mean rest in bed with 
absolute fixation of the diseased joint. 

General results of treatment. 



Number 
of cases. 



Per cen t. 



Quiescent 

Uudfr treatment. 
Deaths 

Total 



142 
45 
13 



71 
22J 



CONCLUSIONS. 

1. The results of the present combination of conservative and 
hygienic treatments may be considered as satisfactory. 

2. There can be no doubt that the early institution of treatment 
has a marked beneficial effect on prognosis, both as to deformity 
and as to ultimate recovery. 

3. Our results would indicate that the earlier in life the onset the 
more favorable is the prognosis. 

4. In the acute stages treatment in bed is the most effective. 

5. Prolonged sinus formation with mixed infection markedly favors 
the general distribution of the tuberculous process from the localized 
focus and increases the danger of a fatal termination. 

6. The strict enforcement of hygienic measures dui'ing the whole 
course of the disease and the supervision of the patient after leaving 
the hospital are essential points in the treatment of joint tuberculosis. 



THE STATE CARE OF CRIPPLED CHILDREN. 

Wallace Blanchaed, M. D., Assistant Clinical Professor in Surgery {Orthopedic), Rush Medical College, 

Chicago. 

{Chicago Medical Recorder, March, 1914.) 

It has been declared in the legislatures of the three States of New 
York, Minnesota, and Nebraska that it costs much less to correct the 
deformity of a destitute crippled child and make it a future self- 
supporting and upbuilding factor in the State than to leave it to be a 
pubhc beggar, or to remain in some other way a burden upon the 
people of the State for its natural hfetime. Acting upon this poUcy, 
which it may be assumed is well proven, the above-named States have 
established State orthopedic hospitals, with orthopedic surgeons of 
good reputations in charge. 



36 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDKEN. 

Modern methods of orthopedic surgery are reducing the helpless 
and bedridden cripples to an exceedingly small proportion. 

Nothing gives more joy to a bedridden, crippled child than the 
prospect of standing alone and becoming able to walk, with a further 
prospect of being able to do its share of work in the world. The best 
and only time to perfectly correct most deformities is in childhood. 

A large share of the severe deformities are the inheritance of pov- 
erty, and, if corrected at all, the work must be done in charity hospi- 
tals, either sustained by private charity or by municipal and State 
appropriations. For over 20 years the Home for Destitute Crippled 
Children, Chicago, has been doing a great work in restoring the 
deformed to normal symmetry, and that usually stands for future 
abihty to earn a hving. The annual report for 1913 showed 811 
house cases and 1,559 dispensary out-patients treated. 

About one-third of all the deformities corrected are tubercular, 
one-third congenital or acquired paralytic, and one-third rachitic. 

The rachitic deformities, consisting usually of knock-knee, bow- 
legs, and anterior bent tibias, are expeditiously corrected by the 
modern method of rapid and bloodless osteoclasis. No time and 
expense are lost upon antiseptic dressing and precautions. The 
bloodless corrections are made in a Grattan osteoclast in eight seconds. 
The parts are held in plaster of Paris for five weeks, and in six weeks 
the patient is walking on symmetric legs and is ready for discharge. 

Unfortunately, the other classes of deformities require more pro- 
longed treatments. The tubercular joints frequently require from 
one to three or four years of treatment. It is hoped that the Albee 
operation may shorten the course of treatment necessary for Pott's 
disease of the spine. 

The congenital clubfoot can be quickly corrected by tenotomy and 
forcible straightening, but requires from four months to a year of 
close observation to prevent a relapse. 

The paralytic clubfoot deformities, whether corrected by tenoto- 
mies, astragalectomy, or tendon transplantation, require prolonged 
care and attention. 

It is hoped that the Abbott method of treating scoUosis may 
shorten the period of treatment and give improved results. 

The congenital hip dislocations require eight months in plaster of 
Paris to get good results. We are doing Prof. Lorenz's new manipu- 
lative replacement, which is a vast improvement upon the forceful 
method he employed when he came to Chicago 12 years ago. It will 
be remembered that when Prof. Lorenz came to this country he would 
not attempt to reduce a congenital hip in a child over 5 years of age. 
By the more improved modern methods we frequently succeed in 
getting good replacements in children up to 8 and even 10 years of age 



i 



EARLY HISTORY OF CARE OF CRIPPLES. 37 

We frequently receive paralytic children with a history of having 
lain helpless on the bed for several years. * * * Frequently after a 
month's treatment the child will be found walking on a pair of 
crutches around the ward. After a time braces are appHed in place 
of plaster. Thus a bedridden case becomes an ambulatory patient, 
with a hope of still further improvement. 

An improvement in the mentaUty of the child immediately follows 
the correction of its deformities. Increased confidence and force of 
character can always be seen in the faces of the second pictures of the 
cases. 

To give little cripples straight and symmetric bodies and limbs, so 
that they may enter hfe's work with a good chance of becoming self- 
supporting and seK-respecting upbuilders in the community, is not 
only a charity, but has been shown by the experience of at least three 
States to be a good financial investment for the State. Certainly this 
great work should not be left entirely as an over-heavy financial load 
to be carried by generous and self-sacrificing philanthropists. 



EARLY HISTORY OF THE CARE AND TREATMENT OF CRIPPLES. 

Douglas C. McMurtrie, New York. 
(Bulletin of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, February, 1914.) 

The first glimmer of hope for the welfare of the cripple began to 
appear in the eighteenth century, though the progress in this direction 
was very slow. The first measures did not in a strict sense mark the 
beginnings of care for cripples, but they operated to the ultimate 
advantages of those who, by reason of their infirmity, were cast upon 
the pity of their fellow men. The actuating motive of provision in 
many cases, however, was utiMtarian in character. One object was 
that all cripples might be confined, so that they should not annoy the 
community bv their deformed appearance. 

Some of the many monasteries which had not been utihzed since 
the time of the Reformation were thrown open and converted into 
orphan asylums, madhouses, or penitentiaries. In the estabhshment 
of the various institutions the cripple was frequently considered. 

Those handicapped by deformity were best provided for at a hos- 
pital for wretched and pauper invahds estabhshed at Pforgheim in 
1722 by Count Luitgard, of Baden. This was later transformed by 
Couiit Charles Frederic, of Baden, into an orphan asylum, but made 
especial provision for young and old cripples. Of those capable of 
instruction it is noted merely that they should be sent to the school 
of the orphan asylum "when they could stand it." The cripple 
department was abolished in 1808, probably because the room was 
needed for the insane. 



38 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

Such provision for cripples, however, gave them asylum only, and 
did nothing in a constructive way to better their condition, but the 
rise of the science of orthopedics was responsible for the ensuing im- 
provement. It is true that one of the earhest Hippocratic treatises 
was orthopedic in character, but the attention which had been given 
to human deformity by the medical profession had, up to the time of 
which we are speaking, been inconsequential. One of the first to give 
extensive consideration to such work was Andry, of Paris, who pub- 
lished in 1744 a two-volume work on orthopedics, illustrated. He 
encountered much skepticism. For example, Siebold in his Clii- 
rurgisches Taschenbuch (1792) claimed that the cure of clubfeet was 
impossible. 

Another advance was made in 1780, when J. A. Venel, who was 
versed in both mechanics and medicine, founded an institution for 
the deformed at Orbe, Switzerland. Several other surgeons also did 
valuable work. The most complete books on the subject were by 
Jorg (1816). 

The theories of the various orthopedists were best put into practice 
in an institution, and a large number of these were founded in the 
first decades of the nineteenth century; as, for example, those located 
at Paris, London. Leipzig, Lubeck, Berlin, and Vienna. One at 
Wurzburg, estabhshed by Dr. Heine, gained especial fame, being the 
first of its kind in Germany. 

The first institution for the deformed in Prussia was estabhshed 
at Berhn in 1823, by Dr. J. G. Blomer. This was designed for pay 
patients from among the upper classes, but indigent crippled chil- 
dren were also admitted. Between the years 1823 and 1827 he treated 
no less than 1,179 cases of deformity, of which he claimed to cure 651. 
Blomer had a workroom for making apparatus, bandages, and arti- 
ficial limbs. It is not known, how long his institution lasted. 

A similar institution was founded in Stockliolm, Sweden, in 1827 
by Dr. Ackermann. There was much difficulty encountered in over- 
coming public suspicion and distrust. Dr. Glinther maintained an 
institution in Hamburg during the years 1832-1837. While visiting 
Hamburg, Dr. Zinc, of Vienna, became acquainted with this estab- 
hshment, and upon his return to Vienna founded a similar one. May 
1, 1838. This latter much resembled the institute of Blomer, at 
Berhn. 

In the meantime, however, there had been founded in Munich, in 
1832, the fii-st comprehensive institution for the care and education 
of cripples. The Konighche Bayerische Zentralanstalt fiir Erziehung 
und Bildung ki-iippelhafter Kinder was brought into being by an 
eminent philanthropist, Johan Nepomuk, and the principles then 
exemphfied have in general been followed by most of the modern 
institutions which have since been estabhshed. A description of sub- 



A 



WEAK FEET AND POSTURAL DEFORMITY. 39 

sequent work, however^ is outside the scope of the present article. 
In Denmark, England, and Italy, as well as in Germany and the 
United States, extensive systems of care have been built up, and in 
almost every civihzed country of the world there is made some pro- 
vision for the welfare of the cripple. 



WEAK FEET AND POSTURAL DEFORMITY IN CHILDREN. i 

Charles Ogilvy, M. D., New York. 
{New York Medical Journal, Sept. 6, 1913.) 

WEAK FEET. 

Note the term "weak feet/' and not "flat feet;" for the condition 
of weak feet should be recognized long before the flattening or low- 
ering of the long arch of the foot has developed. The importance of 
the care of the feet can not be overestimated. Seldom is a weak foot 
recognized before flattening has developed and a long train of symp- 
toms has followed in its wake. 

The body weight normally passes through the center of the knee 
joint, a little to its inner side, down the leg through a hne represented 
by the crest of the tibia, through the center of the ankle joint and 
over the dorsum of the foot to the second toe. When we find the 
foot everted (rolled outward), this relationship is immediately 
changed, and the body weight no longer passes over the dorsum of 
the foot to the second toe, but down to the inner side of the foot, to 
a point corresponding to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation. Just 
as soon, then, as this abnormal relationship is established, just so 
soon is there demanded of the long arch of the foot the sustenance 
of the body weight bearing down upon its highest point. It is then 
simply a matter of time before it gradually gives way. Symptoms 
of discomfort, and subsequently pain, develop (sometimes associated 
with backache), and later there presents itself to us a typical flat foot. 
This could have easily been prevented by the recognition of the 
eversion and its correction. 

Treatment. — The proper treatment of weak feet, or even flat feet, 
is by no means an insertion of plates or foot supports, which the pa- 
tients are usually advised to procure at some near-by shoe store. 
Such arch supports do more harm than good. The proper foot plate 
is one which supports the foot anteroposteriorly and also laterally 
M'hen the foot is performing its function of weight bearing. Such a 
plate can only be made from a plaster model of the foot, which plas- 
ter cast is further remodeled to complete the correction of the de- 
formity desired. Furthermore, the emplo3rment of any arch support 

1 General title of article: "Orthopedics in General Praci icr." 



40 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

is detrimental to the well-being of such feet unless the eversion, which 
has already been noted and which is always present, is first corrected. 
This is really the most important point in the treatment of weak feet. 
It can be corrected and controlled by elevating the inner side of the 
heel of the shoe and extending the heel forward on the sole some 
three-quarters of an inch. This should be done in every case. 

In the milder cases this alone will be found aU that is necessary, 
provided the shoe chosen is built on proper hues — with a straight 
line on the inner side of the sole, etc., to obtain proper foot balance. 
In addition, we must, by foot exercises, strengthen the muscles which 
control the position of the foot in its relation to the leg, and so enable 
us to retain our corrected position. 

ANTEROPOSTEEIOR POSTURAL DEFORMITY. 

The subject of anteroposterior postural deformity is one which, 
up to the present time, has not been sufficiently emphasized. 

If we could but have these cases recognized early we would not see 
so many of the marked deformities of rotary lateral curvature which 
are constantly being referred to us. The class of patients which are 
here referred to are characterized by very definite and constant pe- 
culiarities. They are those who lack muscle tone. These are the 
children whom you see lagging behind in their romp and play, tiring 
very easily, refusing to continue the game with the other children, 
hanging back when any active exercise is being enjoyed. They run 
clumsily, they walk with an ungainly gait — with rounded shoulders 
and head forward. In the standing posture the abdomen is prom- 
inent, the shoulders are rounded, the chest is sunken (retracted), and 
the head is protruded. When sitting down they may best be char- 
acterized as those who "flop over," either upon their book or upon 
the table before which they are seated. . . . The condition is found 
more frequently among girls than boys, the reason for this being that 
boys are naturally more inchned to the muscular activities of outdoor 
sports and games. 

The difficulty of diagnosis from the indefiniteness of the symptoms 
is counteracted by the ease with which the condition is recognized 
when the clothing is removed and the patient is made to stand before 
the examiner. One recognizes at a glance the abnormal posture, and 
the diagnosis should immediately be made. 

There is no structural change in this deformity. The position is 
entirely due to habit. This postural deformity can be voluntarily 
corrected by the patient. The condition can be cured by properly 
directed breathing exercises, light cahsthenics, and good hygienic and 
dietetic care. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 41 

FLAT FOOT IN CHILDREN. 

Albert Ehrenfkied, M. D. 
{Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Apr. 2, 1914.) 

A study of the records of 1,000 cliildren under 12 years of age 
applying consecutively for treatment at the out-patient department 
of the Children's Hospital in 1912, showed 440 having some static 
disability of the feet. These cases could readily be divided into three 
classes — congenital (18), idiopathic (95), and secondary (327). 

First. The diagnosis of weak, pronated, or flat foot should not 
be made inconsiderately. In 327 of the 440 cases the foot symptoms 
were secondary to some other condition which required treatment. 
Continued observation in many apparently simple cases showed mild 
rickets or unsuspected infantile paralysis, and less frequently such 
conditions as tuberculosis of the knee, hemiplegia, or lead, post- 
diphtheretic, or spastic paralysis. 

Second. Eighteen of the primary cases were congenital. These, 
the result of mechanical influences prior to birth, are more properly 
classed with clubfoot; they belong to the type to which I have given 
the name of potential calcaneo-valgus. 

Third. A study of the other primary cases, 95 in number, shows evi- 
dence of muscular insufficiency resulting from physical debility as the 
leading factor in causation. This debility, as shown by the records, 
is frequently the sequel of an infectious disease, and is particularly 
apparent when the child has been the victim of a series of infectious in 
close succession. Other static disabilities, such as relaxed knees, 
functional scoliosis, and gastroptosis are likely to be present. 

Fourth. The secondary cases, which were in the majority, were the 
result of rickets or of rhachitic deformities in approximately 200 cases, 
of infantile paralysis in 107, and of other conditions in approximately 
20 cases. In many of these the foot disability was a minor incident. 

Fifth. Prophylaxis of foot disabilities consists in combating the 
two important causes therefor — rickets and the infectious diseases 
of cliildhood. Both of these should yield to hygiene. Measures to 
lessen substitute nursing of infants by means of proprietary foods or 
improper milk mixtures, and to control the spread of contagious dis- 
eases through schools, which at the present time are probably the 
chief agents in the dissemination of infections among children, will 
result in the important diminution in the incidence of these conditions. 

Sixth. The treatment is usually effective. 



CARE OF THE EYES OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

{Editorialin New York MedicalJournal, Dec. 20, 191S.) 

One way in wliich the growing interest in school hygiene is shown 
is the increasing demand that the eyes of the children shall be con- 



42 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN". 

served by proper glasses whenever they appear to be causmg trouble. 
Tliis is as it should be, but the decision to do the proper thing does 
not always include provision of the ways and means. It is one thing 
to say that a child needs proper glasses; it is another to see that he 
gets them. 

Thousands of children are directed each winter to have their eyes 
examined. Some of these consult specialists in their offices and 
receive adequate treatment. Others consult opticians or optome- 
trists, who, for the sake of selling a pair of glasses, undertake to solve 
the intricate problems involved with a deftness and celerity which 
would be remarkable if successful. The majority, perhaps, arrive 
almost simultaneously at the eye clinics, which are overwhelmed by 
this sudden and temporary increase of the most difficult and time- 
consuming part of their work. A certain number of these children, 
but a comparatively small number, are set aside for the purpose of 
teaching and these receive proper attention; but in our large clinics 
the time of the expert is fully occupied by attending to the diseases 
and operative conditions of the eye that present themselves. The 
great majority of these refraction cases have to be intrusted to the 
junior assistants, who attend the clinics for other reasons than to 
devote their entire time to the correction of the tiresome, patience- 
trying errors of refraction and seldom have the skill to cope success- 
fully with the task; so that only a small proportion of these children 
receive the painstaking, accurate attention to which they are entitled. 
The appointment of a city ophthalmologist, who prescribes from a 
single examination after the eyes have been placed mider atropine 
by a school nurse gives no better results, if indeed as good. 

The problem then, that grows more and more perplexing with the 
increasing demand for the conservation of the eyes of school children, is 
how to secure a means by which they may be properly examined, and 
it may be well to consider the solution adopted in London, as detailed 
by Dr. Samuel Horton Brown in the Ophthalmic Record for October, 
1913. [See next article.] 

This plan may not be ideal — the first attempt to solve a problem of 
such magnitude seldom is — but it presents three salient features 
which we believe must form a part of any plan that is to prove suc- 
cessful, viz, employment of competent ophthalmologists with adequate 
facilities, reasonable payment for a reasonable amomit of work, and 
protection against overcrowding. Nothing in tliis mihtates against 
the use of material for instruction; on the contrary, the junior assist- 
ants, who now often have to work out their problems imassisted, 
would then work under the direct personal supervision of, an expert 
and learn more quickly how to solve them accurately. Nothing except 
the prospect of some reward will keep the expert down to the grind- 
ing, laborious, and usually thankless task of refraction work; he 



CAKE OF THE EYES AT MOOEFIELDS, LONDON". 43 

will leave it for easier, more interesting, and indirectly more profit- 
able branches of his specialty. No man can do more than a certain 
amount of work in a day and do it well. The crowds at the clinics 
at certain seasons are enough to make the most skillful despair; he 
can not attend to all, often not to a majority, as they should be at- 
tended to, yet if a single patient complains of lack of attention, an 
investagation is in order, and if the expert works overtime, he soon 
feels that he is not gaining the approbation of the authorities ; hence 
the limitation of the work given him to do each day to the amount 
that a skillful man can accomplish successfully in the prescribed 
time enables him to perform it accurately and conscientiously. 

Too much hurried, slip-shod work is to be seen in the refraction 
rooms of our metropolitan clinics. Under the circumstances we 
can not see how it could be otherwise, so if the eyes of our school 
children are to be conserved it would be well for the city authorities 
to take cognizance of the example set them by their confreres of 
London and to institute measures to secure for the cliildren adequate 
expert care and attention. 



CARE OF THE EYES OF SCHOOL CHH^DREN AT MOORFIELDS, LONDON. 

Samuel Horton Brown, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa. 
( The Ophthalmic Record, October, WIS.) 

The London County Council after much persuasion made an agree- 
ment with the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, at Moorfields, 
for the special and prompt treatment of the London County Council 
elementary school children who require glasses. The hospital 
equipped a model department, separate from the other clinics, where 
such children are treated apart from the other patients. This de- 
partment has attracted considerable attention, as it is practically a 
school eye cUnic. Five physicians are engaged in this department 
each week, and it also engages part of the time of the nursing, do- 
mestic, clerical, dispensing, and optical staffs. For neatness and 
dispatch tliis is the fuiest clinic of its kind in the world. The clerical 
work, is done by a clerk, who employs a clean, practicable card- index 
system. Noise and confusion are absent. The rooms of the clinic 
are clean and very attractive. 

The agreement between the hospital and the council is that the 
hospital will care for not more than 5,000 school children in the special 
department upon the payment by the London County Council of 
the sum of £1,000 ($4,800) annually, half of which the hospital 
retains for its expenses, dividing the other half equally among the 
five physicians. This yields to each physician £100 (S480) annually. 
The cost of examining and prescribing for each cliild is approxi- 



44 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

mately 4 shillings (96 cents), of which the doctor in attendance 
receives 2 shillings (46 cents). Even in our land of high prices this 
would be quite a considerable item. 

It is so arranged that each doctor sees not more than 12 new 
cases daily and such old cases as have been returned to his service. 
At the maximum an assistant can not consider his day badly spent 
when the hospital work has placed 24 shillings ($5.76) to his credit. 

The school children coming to the hospital are not all exclusively 
refraction cases; they frequently present other conditions. These 
are referred back to the hospital proper. In order, hov/ever, to 
prevent confusion, duplication of records, etc., each day sees one 
of the chief surgeons of the hospital acting as medical officer for that 
day, and all the cases, other than refraction cases occurring in this 
special department, automatically belong to the clinic of the medical 
officer of the day and he treats them as such henceforth. 

In 1912 there were 4,501 new cases of school children, with a 
total attendance of 11,860. There were 138 transferred to the regular 
outpatient department. Spectacles were prescribed for 3,878. The 
number of gTants for spectacles was 1,156. 

Regarding spectacles, the hospital neither manufactures nor sells 
spectacles, but arranges for the optician to attend daily at the hos- 
pital. The optician is authorized to charge prices ranging from 
Is. 9d. (42 cents) to 3s. 6d. (84 cents), and, m the case of cataract 
patients, 5s. 6d. ($1.32). Those who can not pay these prices can, on 
application to the inquiry officer, be furnished with a paper stating 
the cost. This paper is signed by the inquiry officer, and is a certi- 
fied statement in case the patient applies to some agency (there are 
about 800 such agencies available) toward the cost of the spectacles. 



IS THE PERCENTAGE OF MYOPIC EYES DIMINISHING? 

Samuel D. Risley, M. D., Philadelphia. 
(Journal of the American Medical Association, Sept. 27, 1913.) 

In my report of the examination of the eyes of the school children 
in Philadelphia, published in 1881, it was shown that the increasing 
percentage of myopia in the schools as the pupils advanced in age 
and school progress, as was set forth by the statistics of many ob- 
servers both in Europe and America, was due not so much to the 
want of hygienic precautions in the schools as to the existing congeni- 
tal defects in the eyes of the children. Many examples, it Is true, 
were presented showing the baneful influence of inadequately liglitcd 
schookooms and other faulty environments over the eyes of all young 
children, but it was obvious from their collated statistics that the 
crux of the matter lay in the congenital visual defects. 



MYOPIC EYES. ■ 45 

The entire work was summarized in the following conclusion and 
recommendation : 

That, given an emmetropic or normal eye, the probabilities are 
that no harm will come to it from the educational process. On the 
other hand, given an eye with an aziomaly of refraction, especially 
astigmatism, the probabilities are, other things being equal, that the 
educational process will be fraught with pain and danger to the eye. 

Therefore, that before entering school the possible presence of 
defects of vision should be excluded, and any existing error of 
refraction corrected as soon as any trouble is experienced. 

Briefly stated, it was shown by this investigation that the emme- 
tropic eye, notwithstanding its relatively small percentage of the 
whole number, was to be regarded as the model or standard eye, 
since it passed through the stress and strain of school life with a 
'minimum of pain and peril, and maintained a nearly uniform per- 
centage through all the years of school Ufe; that pain, lowered acuity 
of vision and disease in the eyes with defects of refraction, especially 
in astigmatic eyes, steadily increased as age and school progress ad- 
vanced; that with increasing school age the percentage of eyes with 
hypermetropic refraction steadil}^ fell, while the percentage of eyes 
with myopic refraction increased in a corresponding ratio, the increas- 
ing refraction being associated with a steadily increasing percentage- 
of pain, lowered acuity of vision, and disease of the intraocular 
tunics. As a corollary growing out of these findings and conclu- 
sions it was recommended that no child should be permitted to 
enter on the educational process imtil the eyes had been examined. 

While these statistics were in course of preparation, I published, 
and later presented before the American Ophthalmological Society, 
the history of a large series of cases, all taken from my private-case 
books, in which the eyes had passed while under observation from 
hypermetropic to myopic refraction through the turnstile of astig- 
matism. These cases were presented and pubhshed to fortify the 
claims made in the report of the school examinations. 

Twelve years later, probably because of this work, I was requested 
by the late Dr. William F. Norris to write the article on ''School 
Hygiene" which appeared in 1894 in the second volume of Norris and 
OUver's "A System of Diseases of the Eye." While preparing this 
article it occurred to me that if the conclusions based on the school 
report and published in 1881 were true, some demonstration of their 
truth should be shown after 20 years, in a careful analysis of all cases 
applying in the routine of professional work for relief from asthe- 
nopia by the careful correction of existing congenital errors of refrac- 
tion. In Pliiladelphia during the period from 1874 to 1893, inclusive, 
ophthalmic surgeons had habitually ordered glasses for the relief of 



46 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDKEN. 

asthenopia. During this period many cases of rebelHous headache 
and nerve storms, after Dr. S. Weir Mitchell's famous paper on their 
relation to eyestrain, were referred to the ophthalmic surgeon for 
consultation and treatment. It was therefore logical, reasoning a 
priori, to assume, if the conclusions of the school report based on the 
statistics there formulated were true, that such an analysis of the 
case as was proposed should show diminishing percentage in the 
relative number of myopic eyes and a lower degi'ee of myopia. The 
work was undertaken, and the resulting figures were based on the 
refraction as shown by the glasses ordered for distance and constant 
wear. The work covered the correcting glasses for a total of 195,- 
754 eyes, of which 8,736 were from my private-case books, all of the 
latter having been painstaking corrections under the use of mydri- 
atics, pressed to the thorough paralysis of the accommodation. 

This paper is a continuation of the study from 1894 to 1912, 
inclusive. The total number of eyes falling under the strict require- 
ments of the analysis is 6,850. 

At the present time it has been found possible to complete the analy- 
sis only for the group of cases in the first three years, 1894 to 1896, 
inclusive, and for the group in the last three years, 1910, 1911, and 
1912, giving for these years a total of 2,297 eyes. In all of these, 
painstaking effort was made by every means at our command to 
determine the static refraction of each eye, the determination being 
made after the more or less prolonged use of the stronger mydriatics. 
Ilomatropin was used only for elderly persons, and then for its 
therapeutic effects over irritable and inflamed eyes. 

A summary of the statistics shows that the percentage of myopic 
eyes for 1894 had fallen to 15.06 per cent, for 1895 to 13.4, and for 
1896 to 13.86, giving an average for the three years of 14.07 per cent, 
as compared to 16.78 for the preceding three years, or 22.03 per cent, 
the average for the preceding 20 years. The diminishing percentage 
of myopia is made strikingly manifest by the figures shown in the 
last three years, 1910 to 1912, inclusive. In 1910 there was 13.45 
per cent of myopic eyes, which fell in 1911 to 8.21 per cent, but rose 
in 1912 to 11.97 per cent, or an average for the three years of 11.21 
per cent. The average percentage of myopia for each succeeding 
period of three years is shown by the steady fall from 28.43 per cent 
in 1874 to 11.21 per cent in 1913. 

The percentage of liigh myopia, 10 D. or greater, during the first 
period of three years, shows a steady rise in the number of such eyes 
from 0.80 per cent in 1894 to 0.91 per cent in 1895, and to 1.86 per 
cent in 1896. In 1910 and 1911 not a single case of M. — ^^10 D. was 
seen, reducing the average for the three years to 0.20 per cent, as 
compared to 1.19 per cent for the first period. The interesting fact 



SQUINT. 47 

is set forth that while the percentage of the higher grades of myopia 
falls with more or less regularity with the succeeding years, the lower 
grades less than 3 D, steadily advance, not in actual numbers but 
in relation to the whole number of myopic eyes. 



SQUINT AND ITS CORRECTION. 

John J. O'Brien, M. D., Schenectady, N. Y. 
{Neic York State Journal of Medicine, January, 1914.) 

To advise the parents of a child who has just commenced to squint 
"to wait till the child is 10 or 12; that nothing can be done till then; 
that the child will grow out of the squint," is wholly bad. It is true 
children do grow out of squint, but always with a blind eye. Could 
parents' prevision see the sequence of procrastination there would 
be little danger of such counsel being accepted. In its consequence, 
neglect is but a step removed from destruction of the eye as a visual 
organ. Central vision in a neglected case of squint is seldom better 
than one-tenth of normal and the ability to read utterly lost. When 
these facts are familiar to the public, there will be no more likelihood 
of a child with beginning strabismus being neglected than if he had 
appendicitis or gall-bladder disease. Yet, as you know, it is but a 
short time since the public was educated to take care of the latter. 
The change was wrought by frequent discussion. 

The younger the child the more rapid is the decrease in vision. A 
delay of months in a 4 or 5 year old child may not be fatal to vision, 
while a like delay in a child a month or two old would spell irretriev- 
able disaster. In very young infants the deterioration of the macula 
is very rapid. The rule, therefore, should invariably be to institute 
treatment within a week of the manifestation of the squint. 

The first step in the treatment is to correct, under atropine, the 
error in both eyes wdthin from a quarter to three-quarters of a diopter 
of the full correction. The less the error the nearer should the pre- 
scription call for the full correction. This should be constantly 
worn. Children are never too young to wear glasses when glasses are 
indicated. The proper correction of the refractive error in a sur- 
prisingly large number of cases of both convergent and divergent 
squint will be all that is necessary to effect a permanent, complete 
cure. When this fails we have recourse to the other agents. These in 
order of importance are: Atropine to be instilled in the fixing eye; 
occlusion of the fixing eye; training the fusion sense and operation. 
The objects of treatment are to arrest the diminution of and bring 
back the vision to the squinting eye and restore the visual axes to 
normal. In cases where the above remedies fail, operation is indi- 
cated, and the one giving the best results is advancement with or 
without tenotomy of the opposing muscle. 



48 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

With care, an abundance of patience, and some skill the vision of 
the e3^es of these little squinters can be, if promptly treated, saved 
with lasting benefit to the patient and some credit to the profession. 



WHAT THE STATE CAN DO TO PREVENT BLINDNESS. 

Willis O. Nance, M. D., Ophthalmic Surgeon, Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary, Chicago. 
{Journal of Ophthalmology and Oto-Laryngology , February, 1914-) 

Every oculist and most general medical practitioners know that 
40 per cent of the blindness of the world is preventable; in other 
words, that of every 10 persons who are sightless, 4 of them need not 
have been so. The question that presents itself in this connection is, 
has the medical profession been awake to the extreme importance of 
the subject to the extent that it should have been and has the public 
been sufficiently impressed with the gravity of the situation and prop- 
erly informed as to the possibilities of what cooperation might accom- 
plish toward materially improving these figures ? 

We all know that at least 10 per cent of all blindness is due to 
ophthalmia neonatorum, and that 25 per cent of all preventable 
blindness is attributed to this disease. There is no use arguing as to 
the efficacy of the Crede method of prophylaxis. Everyone admits 
its value. No physician can consistently object to its use. If some 
physicians do not employ it because it is not convenient for them to 
do so, the State should make it easy for them by furnishing it gratui- 
tously in a convenient form, as is now being done in several States. 

Ophthalmia neonatorum should be made a reportable disease, as is 
scarlet fever, diphtheria, tuberculosis, and other contagious diseases. 

We all know that if cases are seen early and intelligent and active 
treatment is immediately instituted and continued it is rare that an 
eye is lost. What an appaUing thing it is for us to meet, as is not at 
all infrequent, with a httle patient whose cornese are ulcerated and 
perforated, forever bhnd, and to consider what could have been done 
by intelhgent treatment but a few days or weeks sooner. Early 
reporting of these cases to the health authorities will prevent many 
such catastrophes. 

Trachoma is responsible for about one- tenth of all bUndness in 
Ilhnois. This percentage could undoubtedly be cut down by a better 
understanding as to the contagiousness of the disease and the adop- 
tion of a bettor hygienic regimen on the part of the people at large. 
Patients and parents of children suffering from trachoma must be 
better advised of the danger of contagion and the easy conveyance of 
the disease by towels, handkerchiefs, bedding, and the like. The 
''common" or roller towel must be banished from pubUc places by. 
legislative enactment, as has already been done in the city of Chicago. 
This ordinance, as most of you know, was passed by the city council 



PEEVENTIOJSr OF BLINDNESS. 49 

at the instance of your chairman. Its enforcement and the pub- 
licity given to its consideration has doubtless been the cause of 
preventing many cases of serious ocular infection and consequent 
bhndness. 

At least 5 per cent of bhndness results from ocular injuries. The 
greater number of these injuries are preventable, many of them being 
due to carelessness and ignorance. How frequently we see children 
bhnd or partly so as a result of an injury of^the eye by scissors, knife, 
or other similar instrument placed in their hands by thoughtless 
parents or friends. The air rifle, for which there is no earthly excuse 
for existence, annually claims a harvest of bhnd eyes. Even the water 
core golf ball has contributed its share to bhndness as a result of its 
dissection by the inquisitive modern youth. Most of these injuries, 
as also others caused by supposedly harmless toys, could have beeji 
prevented had the guardians of these victims appreciated the dangers 
of such devices. A campaign of education is needed in this direction. 

Industrial accidents are not occurring with the same degree of 
frequency as they did in years gone by. Manufacturing and railroad 
corporations m Ilhnois are keeping an even pace or better, I beheve, 
with those of other States in the protection of their employees against 
eye injuries. In many of the shops and factories, however, and let 
it be said, frequently against positive orders to the contrary, the cus- 
tom of removmg foreign bodies from the eye by feUow workmen is 
still persisted in. Every eye surgeon knows the positive iniquity of 
such procedure and has seen dire results following the custom. Shop 
foremen and workmen must be better advised as to the dangers of 
such practice, and those in authority must see to it that the custom 
is abohshed. 

Wood-alcohol bhndness has becomes of sufficiently frequent occur- 
rence to demand better regulation of the use of the drug in industrial 
pursuits and in its sale to the pubhc. Both employers of labor and 
the pubhc generally must be warned of the poisonous nature of this 
preparation and of its influence in the production of blindness. 
There is opportunity in Ilhnois for legislative enactment restricting 
its use commercially and requiring proper and comprehensive 
labehng. 

There is opportunity for improvement in the school system of our 
State m so far as it relates to the illumination of schoolrooms, the 
size and position of desks and seats, the size and character of the 
print of books, the kind of paper used, etc. When it becomes gen- 
erally known by school authorities and the pubhc that the begmning 
of much serious eye trouble, sometimes leading to blindness, has its 
inception in the schoolroom, more attention will be paid to ocular 
hygiene as it particularly relates to this aspect of the subject. 

74418°— 15 i 



50 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

PREVENTABLE BLINDNESS— A CHALLENGE TO THE PROFESSIONS. 

Henry Copley Greene, B. A., Field Agent for the Conservation of Eyesight, Massachusetts Commission 

for the Blind, Boston. 

(Journal of the American Medical Association, Sept. 27, 1913.) 
CONCLUSIONS. 

The problem of unnecessary blindness, which has so largely baffled 
and sometimes even disgraced the professions of medicine, business, 
statecraft, and social service, demands for its solution the following 
measures : 

1. A campaign of medical and lay research and education, Gov- 
ernment action, medical treatment and social work carried on, where- 
ever possible, to Umit and to remedy ocular disease, especially the 
more prevalent and damaging diseases and defects. 

2. In the work of pubUc education, special stress to be laid on the 
importance not only of ophthalmia neonatorum and trachoma as 
causes of bhndness, but also of glaucoma, syphiUs, and ocular injuries. 

3. Medical schools to emphasize the interrelation of ocular and 
general disease, to teach their students the importance of consultation 
with ophthalmologists, and a high sense not only of human service 
but also of the physician's duty to uphold the health laws, both 
National and State. 

Hospitals and clinics urged to provide ophthahnologists with every 
possible facility for the diagnosis and treatment, of obscure cases, 
including the help of pathologists, syphilologists, brain specialists, 
Roentgen-ray speciaUsts, and others. 

4. The prevalence of blindness studied m each State in relation to 
its more prevalent causes, on a basis of reports of cases of blindness 
to State commissions or othei* central agencies. 

5. To promote such intelligent study of the prevalence and results 
of eye diseases, a committee of the American Medical Association to 
request hospitals and ophthalmologists to include in all their eye 
records the following data: Age; sex; single, married, widowed, or 
divorced; birthplace; birthplace of parents; occupation or school 
grade ; in possibly syphilitic cases, the number of children still-born, 
dead, or living, and in traumatic or possibly traumatic cases, the 
tool or machine used, and the manner of injury. 

6. To facihtate the comparison of results, the following stand- 
ards of vision officially adopted: For blindness, the German standard, 
vision fingers 1 foot or less; practical blindness, vision less than 20-200 
with glasses; partial disablement, vision 20-200 to 20--50, mclusive, 
with glasses. 

7. Making it the duty of the State boards of health or of special 
private agents to study the needs of all localities ; and in cooperation 



PEEVENTION OF BLINDNESS. 51 

with medical schools and hospitals, to bring to the notice of young 
ophthalmologists opportunities for work in places especially requir- 
ing their services. 

In remote districts, where peculiar conditions require it, such clin- 
ical expeditions as those of Dr. Stucky in the Kentucky mountains. 

In large cities, self-supporting evening clinics, with paid ophthal- 
mologists in attendance, organized to compete with charlatans and 
inefficient practitioners and to provide self-respecting patients on low 
wages with facilities for expert treatment otherwise hard to secure. 

In chnics and hospitals, the specialist's work made more efficient 
by insisting on proper treatment of diseases underlying local eye 
symptoms and by keeping patients under treatment long enough to 
get results. 

8. Paid social workers made part of the regular staff of aU eye 
clinics, so as to increase their efficiency in the prevention of blindness 
from glaucoma, uveitis, etc., and to economize the work of the phy- 
sicians in charge as fast as the necessary funds can be secured. 

9. In schools, the pupils' eyes regularly examined, preferably by 
trained physicians ; records kept showing the effect of the school cur- 
riculum on eyesight, and parents induced or compelled to furnish 
necessary eyeglasses or treatment for the eyes. If necessary, the 
State "neglect law" amended to make this possible. In the man- 
agement of institutions. State and local authorities to set a standard 
of work for the preservation of eyesight. 

Especially m reform schools and prisons in which the inmates 
are shut away from the usual medical facihties, ophthalmologists 
regularly in attendance; and close cooperation secured between 
ophthalmologists, general physicians, and the probation officers 
having oversight over discharged prisoners. AU male gonorrheal 
and all syphilitic patients detamed until cured. 

10. Classes especially adapted for children with defective eyesight 
organized in all large cities, not only to provide education for children 
not properly inmates of institutions for the blind, but also to aid in 
the preservation of their sight. 

School children with the vision of both eyes defective, or with one 
eye practically blind, guided toward occupation relatively free from 
ocular injuries. 

11. State birth registration laws amended to secure birth notifica- 
tion within 3 days, and preferably within 48 hours ; and warnings as 
to the danger of ophthalmia neonatorum sent to all mothers immedi- 
ately on receipt of birth notices. 

Obstetric clinics promoted to furnish adequate nursing and medical 
service to the poor in large cities. Midwives trained, registered, and 
supervised in cities in which their services are necessary. 



52 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

A suitable prophylactic distributed free to all physicians and to 
midwives. The use of this prophylactic required at all births in 
lying-in hospitals or in the practice of midwives, and at least recom- 
mended strongly to physicians. 

The symptoms of ophthalmia neonatorum defined by the American 
Medical Association as redness and swelling of the eyelids and unnat- 
ural discharge from the eyes, within 30 days of birth, and made 
reportable by physicians as well as nurses and parents. 

Physicians, as well as midwives, prosecuted whenever necessary to 
secure observance of the reporting law; and physicians admonished 
by their State societies for failure to obey the law or to secure ade- 
quate treatment and nursing for serious cases. 

Local boards of health given ample powers over reported cases, 
subject to the supervision and control of the State boards in requir- 
ing adequate standards of treatment Minimum requirements de- 
fined by the American Medical Association, as the attendance of an 
ophthalmologist, or of a physician experienced in the treatment of 
ophthalmia neonatorum, assisted in all but the lightest cases by at 
least one trained nurse. 

12. Trachoma made reportable in all States in which it is preva- 
lent, proper treatment insured under public supervision, and in case 
children are affected, special schooling provided. 

13. Workers for conservation of vision to join with associations 
for sex education, etc., (a) in setting adequate standards of treat- 
ment for syphilis, congenital and acquired; (b) in raising the physi- 
cal standards of marriage ; and (c) in urging the Federal Government 
to extend syphilitic patients the system of exclusion at the port of 
embarkation, now applied to emigrants with trachoma. 

14. Legislation against holiday injuries, etc., and popular educa- 
tion as to the dangers of nonindustrial injuries of the eye. 

Cooperation with both employers and employees in the elimination 
of industrial injuries. 

Teamwork with the American association for labor legislation to 
secure the enactment or amendment of factory inspection and work- 
men's compensation laws, so as to provide for study of industrial 
conditions affecting eyesight, protection from injury and disease, and 
special compensation not merely for "total and irrecoverable blind- 
ness" of either or both eyes, but also for practical blindness, defined 
as reduction of vision to one-tenth of normal with glasses. 

15. A joint committee of the American Medical Association and 
the existing State organizations for the prevention of blindness and 
the conservation of eyesight to provide for interchange of information 
through periodic reports from each State, published in ophthalmo- 
logic journals and the Outlook for the Blind, and as soon as any vital 
demand is manifest, to promote a federation of all State committees 
and commissions actively at work for the preservation of oj^esight. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREIsr. 



53 



THE ERUPTION AND DECAY OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. ^ 

Robert Bennett Bean, Tulane University. 
( The Anatomical Record, May, 1911,.) 

Data as to 2,221 school children, viz: 776 Filipinos — 630 male (5 
to 30 years), 146 female (5 to 30 years) ; 628 German — 322 male, 306 
female; 817 American — 407 male (5 to 18 years), 410 female (5 to 18 
years); total, 2,221. 

ERUPTION OF THE TEETH. 

The Filipinos are from one to four years earlier than the Germans 
and Americans in the eruption of the permanent teeth, and the Ameri- 
cans are shghtly earlier than the Germans. 

The females are more precocious than the males in the three groups, 
but this difference is very slight among the Fihpinos, and a little less 
among the Germans than among the Americans. 

The Filipinos are more homogeneous sexually (there is less differ- 
ence between the sexes) than the Americans, who are more hetero- 
geneous than the Germans. 

The lower teeth erupt before the upper, except that the upper 
premolars erupt before the lower. The permanent teeth erupt at 
three periods, about the ages of 7, 10, and 18 years, in connection 
with the eruption of the three sets of molars, and the first two periods 
alternate with periods of rapid growth in stature. 

The teeth erupt in the following order: 

1. Lower first molars. 

2. Lower median incisors. 

3. Upper first molars. 

4. Upper median incisors. 

5. Lower lateral incisors. 

6. Upper lateral incisors. 

7. LTpper median premolars. 

8. Lower canines. 

This order is. followed by the Germans and Americans and also by 
the Fihpinos except that among the Filipinos the canines erupt earher 
than the premolars and upper lateral incisors, and the canines erupt 
from two to four years earlier in the Filipinos than in the Germans 
and Americans. 

THE LAW OF ALTERNATION IN DEVELOPMENT. 

A law of alternation in development has been deduced, based upon 
the alternation of periods of acceleration and retardation in the 
growth of the long bones (stature) , upon the periods of acceleration 
and retardation in the development of the permanent teeth, as well 



9. Lower median premolars. 

10. Upper lateral premolars. 

11. Upper canines. 

12. Lower lateral premolars. 

13. Lower second molars. 

14. Upper second molars. 

15. Lower third molars. 

16. Upper third molars. 



1 Since tliis bulletin went to press, this article has appeared in extended form in The Pedagogical 
Seminary, December, 1914. 



54 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

as from a general knowledge of development, especially from the 
researches of Donaldson, Jackson, and others. This law may be 
formulated somewhat as follows : 

There are one or more periods of acceleration alternating with 
periods of retardation in the development of the structures of the 
body. The periods of acceleration in the development of one struc- 
ture are synchronous with the periods of retardation in the develop- 
ment of another. 

The law is not only appUcable to normal development, but also 
seems to apply to abnormal development through a process of com- 
pensation. If one structure is unusually precocious in the periods 
of acceleration in development, its complementary structure will be 
backward in the period of acceleration, and vice versa. Thus the 
upper canines are precocious in the Filipino boys, and the upper later 
incisors are backward; and the upper lateral incisors are precocious 
in the Filipino girls, and the upper canines are backward. Other 
examples could be cited, but these suffice to illustrate the law. 

DECAY OF THE TEETH. 

The temporary teeth of the Americans are worse than those of the 
Filipinos which are worse than those of the Germans. The permanent 
teeth of the Americans are worse than those of the Germans which 
are worse than those of the Filipinos. The girls have worse teeth 
than the boys in all the groups. 

MORPHOLOGIC FORM AND TEETH. 

Those individuals with long faces, heads, and noses, and lai^e 
occipital circumferences of the head have worse teeth than those 
individuals with broad heads, faces, and noses, and large parietal 
circumferences of the head ; and the teeth of the former develop earlier 
than the teeth of the latter. 

The relative number of the former is greatest among the Americans, 
least among the Filipinos, and nearly as great among the Germans as 
among the Americans. The former increases with age, and the latter 
decreases. 



THE CAUSES OF DENTAL CARIES.' 

Edgar D. Cooudge, D. D. S., Chicago, 111. 
(Dental Cosmos, February, 13 H. ) 

In a general way dental caries may be considered as having — 
first, an exciting cause, and, second, a predisposing cause. 

Exciting cause. — The exciting cause is twofold : Acid-forming bac- 
teria, active and fermentable carbohydrates, passive. The mouth 

1 General title of article: "The Etiology and Progress of Dental Caries." 



DENTAL CARIES. 55 

always contains the first, and the environment is such as to produce 
growth in ahnost all cases where the second element is present, pro- 
viding these bacteria be undisturbed. With the growth of these 
bacteria, there is a product of metabolism formed which causes the 
destruction of the tooth substance by a solution of the calcium salts 
of the enamel. The diastatic enzyme — ptyalin — and the product of 
metabolism of bacteria in the presence of carbohydrates have the 
power of converting carbohydrates into lactic acid. Lactic acid is 
considered as the force which attacks the enamel, producing the 
beginning of decay. (" American System of Dentistry," vol. 1, p. 805.) 
Before considering the predisposing cause, let us recall the defini- 
tion of that term. According to Gould, it is — 

that condition of the body in which causes that leave other persons unaffected call 
forth an attack of disease in individuals predisposed. The term at the present time 
refers especially to susceptibility to infectious diseases, and implies a peculiar con- 
dition of the bodily jviices or cells, in which these are unable to repel the invasion of 
pathogenic microorganisms. 

Predisposing cause. — There may be local and general predisposing 
causes. Local predisposing causes may be considered as those con- 
ditions of the surfaces of the teeth which lessen their resistance to the 
attack of the active force and the environment of the teeth, which 
may be favorable to the action of bacteria upon carbohydrates to 
form lactic acid. 

General predisposing causes are those influences of heredity and 
of bodily condition which lower the resistance of the teeth to attacks 
of bacterial action. Some hereditary influences may have their 
expression locally, as the inherited tendency to defective formation, 
irregularities of alignment, etc. The age and bodily condition with 
regard to systemic disorders mfluence the local environment of the 
teeth. 

Tlie study of the cause of caries involves two lines of investigation, 
one deahng with the active force that is ever present and the other 
with the power or ability pecuhar to the tooth and its environment 
to resist the attack of this force. Both these fields appear of equal 
importance in regard to the cause of caries and to the control of the 
disease. Whether the problem be solved by controlling the bacterial 
action, hastening the reduction of carbohydrates, or by increasing 
the resisting power of the teeth and their environment, matters 
Httle; the control of this condition is the goal sought for. 

[Then follow discussions of the influence upon the progress of caries 
attributed to (1) uneven surfaces and composition of the enamel, 
(2) gelatinoid plaques or films as protected spots for the growth of 
germs, (3) the quality and quantity of saliva, (4) soft, carbohydrate 
food as lessening mastication and the flow and alkalinity of saliva.] 

Summary. — (1) The active cause of caries is the presence of fer- 
mentable carbobvdrates and acid-formintj microorganism ;. 



56 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

(2) The predisposing cause is a lowered resistance due to condi- 
tions brought about by changes of habits which have affected the 
development of the teeth and the condition of their environment, 
together with habits which do not aid, and often hinder, the process 
by which nature attempts to preserve or protect its creation. 

(3) Plaques are an important factor in the locaUzation of caries, 
but there is still some difference of opmion as to their importance as 
causative factors, as well as to their structure and formation. 

(4) The condition of the saliva, which is controllable in regard to 
the presence or absence of certain elements which, if present in proper 
proportions, might have a protecting influence upon the surface of 
the teeth or a resistance to the action of bacteria, is an important 
factor. 



ORAL SEPSIS. 

R. H. Halsey, M. D., Adjunct Professor of Medicine, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. 

( The Post-Graduate, May, 19U.) 

We are not discussing a disease distinctive in itself, but the loca- 
tion of the incubator and the portal of entry for bacteria and toxins 
which have produced a constitutional result by the destruction of 
blood cells and paralysis of the nutrition of the body cells. The 
incubator is a decaying tooth or teeth, or a tooth socket, in which 
the growth of bacteria and the production of toxins goes on uninter- 
rupted. The size of the area may vary from a small cavity in which 
a filhng may have been inserted to a dead root over which a cap has 
been apphed, or to a more extensive combination of fillings and 
"bridge work," In other cases, the tooth in itself may be sound, 
but the location of the pus is m the tooth socket, from which the 
purulent discharge escapes along the side of the tooth or through a 
small sinus which has burrowed its way from the tooth socket through 
the bony alveolar process and the mucous membrane to the mouth 
cavity, or the pus may be contained in a circumscribed, slowly en- 
larging abscess in the bone substance. These destructive processes 
in or about the tooth may go on so insidiously as to accomplish 
extensive destruction even of bony tissue, before the attention of their 
owner is directed to the condition. This fact should be emphasized, 
for many apparently perfect caps or fillings, when removed, are 
found to conceal very foul conditions without there having been any 
preceding toothache or tenderness to attract attention to the process. 
It is readily understood, and it is a fact, that the situation of the 
pus focus in some cases may be evident on inspection of the mouth, 
or its discovery may require the removal of fillings or the carefully 
taken radiogram to demonstrate the concealed pus focus. 



HEALTH INFLUENCED BY TEETH. 57 

From the various suppurating points the bacteria or the toxins 
readily gain access to the general circulation directly through the 
lymph or blood channels. The purulent discharge from the cavities 
bathes the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the tonsils offer 
another portal of entry. From the mouth the pus is carried to the 
lungs or the stomach and intestines and may act directly upon the 
mucous membrane to impair its functions of absorption, secretion, 
or motihty, or after absorption from these surfaces it may impair the 
action of the hver or pancreas in producing their proper secretions. 
Such changes in the processes of digestion permit putrefaction and 
fermentative changes to occur in the intestinal contents. These 
changes permit the formation from the food of more or less poisonous 
products, which add their effects to those of the pus to impair the 
general nutrition. 

SCHOOL DENTAL CLINICS. 

(Editorial in Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Mar. 6, WI4.) 

The recently pubhshed proceedings of the meeting of the Inter- 
national Dental Federation at The Hague, in 1913, show that there 
are in Germany over 200 school dental chnics; in Sweden, 40; in 
Norway, 10. Dr. Jassen, of Strassburg, chairman of the congress, 
announced the following outline of rules of dental care and conserva- 
tive early treatment: 

From the age of 2 J years it is desirable that children's teeth be inspected every 
six months in order to treat the deciduous teeth before they ache, and to allow the 
children to enter the public schools with healthy mouths. It is desirable that every 
child from this age have his own toothbrush and be practised in its use. The mouths 
of children who come at an older age to the school clinics should be treated as much 
as possible in a conservative way. Decayed teeth which can not be filled must bo 
extracted. Dry roots of deciduous teeth must be left in the mouth till the perma- 
nent teeth appear. This will preserve the shape of the jaw. Decayed crowns with 
dry roots should be cut off and the roots filed smooth. The 6-year molars are to be 
saved if possible until the age of 12 and must be extracted only when they can not 
longer be saved or when there is not sufficient room in the mouth. Each child is to 
be treated individually, mth methods suited to his age, constitution, and character. 



THE CHILD'S HEALTH AND BEAUTY AS INFLUENCED BY THE TEETH. 

Henry C. Ferris, D. D. S., Chairman of Committee on Scientific Research of National Dental Association. 
( The Woman's Medical Journal, July, 1913.) 

When the full set of baby teeth has erupted, if the child has had no 
obstruction in the nose and has not breathed through the mouth, the 
teeth will come together in their normal relation, provided the child 
is compelled to use the muscles of mastication. If they are fed on 
hard substances, dried crusts, instead of milk toast and predigested 



58 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

foods, there will be a normal development of these bones, which re- 
sults from increased circulation of blood by exercise of the part. You 
can not develop the muscles of mastication through this exercise 
without developing the bone ; otherwise the muscle would become so 
strong that it would tear the bones of the face to pieces. 

As the permanent teeth erupt back of the baby teeth, you will see 
the necessity of preserving every one of the baby teeth in its normal 
position. If they should decay, they must be filled. If they are lost, 
something must be substituted to maintain the continuity of the arch. 
(This may be a metal bar.) 

Orthodontic operations are showing wonderful results by returning 
the parts to their normal position, but it is seldom that the earmarks 
of this lack of development are eradicated, even after the orthodontist's 
best efforts have been expended, unless these conditions have been 
detected in the baby set. 

There is stiU a more important fact, and that is the upper jaw 
articulates or comes in contact with 13 bones of the cranium, and 
the under jaw in contact with 2 bones of the cranium; therefore, any 
mechanical interference with the development of the maxillary bones 
influences the shape of these structures, which form the brain case. 

In order to prove this assertion Dr. Lawrence Baker, assistant pro- 
fessor of orthodontia of the Harvard Dental School, carried out an 
experiment with two rabbits of the same age. From one he extracted 
all the teeth on one side of the lower jaw. For a period of a few 
months the two rabbits hved together on the same food. They were 
then killed. 

The normal or control rabbit's skuU developed uniformly. The 
operated rabbit, being minus the functioning forces of mastication 
and the stimulus of muscle puU, had all the bones of the cranium on 
the defected side undeveloped; and there was a curvature of the cen- 
tral line in all the bones on the unaffected side. The ribs and breast- 
bone of the animal also showed marked lack of development. The 
importance of this observation needs no explanation; it speaks for 
itself. 

Delaying the treatment of these conditions of the teeth wiU have a 
lasting influence upon the development of the brain box. We can 
reasonably conclude that the brain of an individual type, from any 
species, should normally develop to a given size. If this growth is 
retarded by lack of development and function of the teeth, the brain 
box must be more or less influenced in the development. Being in 
possession bf these facts, we are neglecting our children if we do not 
study their early growth. 

Do not forget the message that I bring you: A perfect head and face 
for the type of your child can be developed through the exercise of 
the organ of mastication, and your child can chew himself into healthy 
development. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 59 

COMBINED DENTAL AND NASAL TREATMENT TO RESTORE NORMAL 

NASAL RESPIRATION. 

John A. Thompson, M. D., Cincinnati. 
(Ohio State Medical Journal, February, 1914-) 

The maxillary suture is present until middle life, when the union of 
the upper jaw becomes bony. Before bony union occurs this suture 
can be separated by a very simple appliance. A metal bar is at- 
tached to the lingual surface of the teeth on each side from the cuspid 
back to a molar. A tube is fastened to one of these bars and to the 
other a threaded bar with a nut adjusted to it. By turning the nut 
pressure is brought against the inner surface of the teeth. Dr. Ger- 
man, with whom I have worked, puts on two cross bars and nuts so 
we can regulate the amount of expansion better and get the widening 
either forward or back in the mouth as needed. The nuts are turned 
twice daily until firm pressure is felt but no pain experienced. In a 
period varying from four days to two weeks the jaws separate. The 
central incisor teeth previously overlapping in many cases will be 
found separated. As no pressure is applied near the incisors, they 
must be carried out by the separation of the bone in which their roots 
are embedded. Intranasal measurements show there is a distinct 
widening of the nares. While the mcrease in space horizontally may 
be only three-sixteenths of an inch the patient notes immediately the 
greater freedom of respiration. Two conditions explain the marked 
relief with so little widening of the nares. The first is the tendency 
of the septum to straighten. The opening between the maxillss at 
the base of the septum relieves the pressure on it, and its elasticity 
causes an approach to the normal straight position. Dr. Black be- 
lieves that, with the outward motion of the alveoli, there is a lowermg 
of the palatal arch, with increased room for the septum. Dr. Brown 
does not agree with him. This force, the elasticity of the septum, 
which so often caused unsatisfactory results in the Asch and other 
septal operations, becomes an aid and not a hindrance after separation 
of the maxillae. The passage of an increased amount of air relieves 
what Black calls the "static congestion" of the membrane. The tur- 
binate bodies become smaller and this gives additional breathing 
room. In some cases removal of a spur is required, and in a few 
patients a submucous resection may be needed, but the amount of 
operative intervention required in the nose is very much lessened by 
the prehminary separation of the jaws. It may be remarked in pass- 
ing that the amount of dental work necessary to correct malpositions 
of the teeth is also lessened. In children this is an important matter, 
because I have seen the health of a child seriously injured by the 
pain and by the sepsis of the mouth mseparable from ordinary ortho- 
dontic measures. 



60 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

We, as rhinologists, are familiar with the wonderful improvements 
in health that follows the removal of tonsils and adenoids. Part of 
the improvement is due to restored nasal respiration and part to free- 
ing the child from chronic septic absorption from the diseased organs. 
The same improvement, although in lesser degree, follows establish- 
ment of nasal respiration by widening the nose. 

After a sufficient amount of space has been obtained the expansion 
apparatus can be removed and a simple retention plate of hard rubber 
used to prevent contraction. The space between the separated jaws 
fills with new tissue in three months. Whether this new growth is 
connective tissue cartilage or bone has not been determined. My 
own belief is that the base of the septum drops into the space and aids 
in closing it. A good X-ray plate might aid in answering this ques- 
tion, but it is hard to get one without the shadow of the septum cov- 
ering the part we wish to study. 

With a method that has proven its worth, the question arises at 
what age should it be used. We rarely find this deformity before the 
seventh year. It is not often marked before the tenth year. At any 
age between 10 and 35 the work can be done. The earlier it is under- 
taken the easier it will be for patient, dentist, and doctor. If done 
early enough, we escape the chest deformities that result from ob- 
struction of the upper respiratory tract and lower the vital capacity 
of the individual aU his life. 

It is claimed by dentists (Bogue and Davenport) that early exami- 
nation of the deciduous teeth will show whether or not a normal 
eruption of the permanent teeth wiU occur. In normal growth of 
the jaws and nose there should be a separation of the temporary 
incisors when the child is 6 years old. If it is not present, the growth 
of the arch has been arrested and the child will have a narrow nose 
and irregular front teeth, because the permanent ones are much 
larger than the milk teeth and need a larger arch. Dr. Brown claims 
in a majority of cases the deciduous teeth are firm enough to permit 
of jaw separation and the prevention of future trouble in both nose 
and mouth. 

The human voice is a compound tone with a fundamental note 
produced in the larynx and overtones produced in the pharynx, 
mouth, nose, and accessory sinuses. The normal development of 
the mouth and nose is essential to easy voice production and health 
of the larynx. When we secure normal nasal respiration through 
maxillary separation, we prevent many inflammatory complications 
in the lower respiratory tract. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. ■ 61 

HYPERTROPHIED TONSILS AND ADENOID VEGETATIONS IN PUBLIC- 
SCHOOL CHILDREN IN NEW YORK CITY. 

S. JosEPinNE Baker, M. D., Director of Bureau of Child Hygiene, Department of Health, New York City. 

{Laryngoscope, February, I914.) 

The department of health of New York City, through its school 
medical inspectors, supervises the health of 825,000 school children 
of this city. Since 1905 the system of school medical inspection has 
included the physical examination of each child on its entrance to 
school and on an average of every three years thereafter. School 
inspectors are all appointed from hsts furnished by the civil service 
commission, and are all physicians licensed to practice in the State 
of New York. The majority are graduates of the New York City 
colleges. 

During the early part of this work it was reported by those inspect- 
ors that approximately 30 per cent of the children in the schools 
were suffereing from hypertrophied tonsils, with or without a form 
of obstruction to the nasal breatliing which impUed the presence of 
adenoid growth. It was the desire of the department to fix a stand- 
ard, as far as possible, for the class of cases where operation would 
be advisable, and to this end a letter was sent to a number of eminent 
speciahsts in nose and throat diseases in this city, asking them what, 
in their opinion, were the exact indications for the operative treat- 
ment of enlarged tonsils. It was a significant fact that no two of 
these specialists agreed as to the exact details; most of them dwelt 
upon many features of this condition which, from the standpoint of 
the medical inspector, were not practical. The opinions expressed 
by them revolved about the following points: Size of the tonsil, 
adhesion to the pillars of the fauces, smoothness of the surface, or 
the presence of large and irregular crypts^ the embedded tonsil, the 
pathological tonsil, the tonsil which was subject to frequent attacks 
of acute inflammation, the susceptibility of children because of this 
enlargement to infectious diseases, and the question as to whether 
the tonsil was hypertrophic or hyperplastic. There was no unanim- 
ity of opinion, nor was any statement made that was practical to 
apply to the work of medical inspection of school children. In fact, 
it could readily be gathered from the statements made by them that 
if a set of 100 children with enlargement of the tonsils was submitted 
to these seven speciahsts no agreement could be reached between 
them as to the indications for operation in these cases. 

Eeahzing, then, the marked dift'erence in opinion that must be 
considered even in the diagnosis of these cases, the Bureau of Child 
Hygiene estabhshed a standard as foUows: That no case was to be 
considered as true hypertrophy of the tonsils unless the hypertrophy 
was such as to interfere with the nutrition of the child or to cause 



62 ■ THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

secondary disturbances^ interfering with its health and, incidentally, 
with its school progress. In other words, no tonsil was to be consid- 
ered hypertrophic unless the medical inspector, considering it as his 
personal case, believed that its presence was a distinct detriment to 
the health of the child, and that, therefore, the tonsil should be 
removed. At no time has the medical inspector been allowed to 
indicate the character of treatment that should be considered advisa- 
ble. The department of health has always taken the attitude in 
regard to the inspection of school children that its duties consist in 
ascertaining defects which interfere with the health of the children, 
caUing the attention of the parents to the fact that the children are 
so affected, and making all possible efforts to see that the children 
in question are placed under competent medical care. The depart- 
ment does not feel that it should dictate the character of treatment 
to be obtained by the child, but holds that this is a matter which 
should be left to the attending physician. It also beheves that its 
functions and efforts should not extend beyond seeing that the 
parents are made to realize their responsibihty in regard to the wel- 
fare of their children and that the latter are placed under medical 
care. For this reason a certificate from a physician or surgeon, 
stating that a child is under his care, has always been accepted by 
the department as evidence of treatment, although the department 
realizes from extensive experience the futihty of so-caUed "medical 
treatment" in the cure of either enlarged tonsils or adenoids. 

In 1912, out of 287,469 children examined, 30,021 (or 10.4 per 
cent) were found to have hyportrophied tonsils. Of this latter num- 
ber, 14,137 (or only 47.1 per cent) obtained treatment. The charac- 
ter of this treatment, according to the certificates of the physicians 
and surgeons who administered it, was as follows : Operations, 6,239, 
or 20.8 per cent; medical treatment, 7,898, or 26.3 per cent. 

No attempt is made by the medical inspector to diagnose adenoids. 
It is not possible, in the ordinary school building, to provide facihties 
for a proper examination of the naso-pharyngeal vault, and there- 
fore, for many years, the department has not used the term "ade- 
noids" in its report of the physical condition of school children, but 
each child has been tested to determine whether or not its nasal 
breathing was occluded. In each such case a diagnosis of defective 
nasal breathing has been made, and it has been left for the family 
physician to decide whether or not this occlusion was due to ade- 
noids, deflected septum, hypertrophied turbinate, nasal polypi, or 
other cause, and to provide appropriate treatment. 

In the children's clinics maintained by the department of health 
all children are received the afternoon before the day of operation. 
They are kept there that night, regularly prepared for operation, and 
the following morning the adenoids or tonsils are removed under gas 



THE NOSE AND THROAT. 63 

and ether anesthesia. The child is then kept in bed during that day, 
remains in bed the following night, and is finally discharged 36 or 
48 hours after entrance. Nearly 4,000 such operations have been 
performed since the dispensaries were opened, with one fataUty. 

From our experience with these children we beheve that these 
operations should never be performed except under anesthesia, and 
that in each case the child should remain in the hospital for 24 hours 
jifter the operation has been performed. 



FIVE HUNDRED EXAMINATIONS OF THE NOSE AND THROAT IN AN 
INSTITUTION FOR DELINQUENT BOYS. 

Max Toeplitz, M. D., New York. 
(^Medical Record, Mar. 14, 1914.) 

The Hawthorne School, the fu'st reformatory for Jewish boys, 
received the first boy on April 25, 1907, and at the end of 1912 had 
imder its supervision 316 boys from 8 to 16 years of age. 

After their commitment to the Hawthorne School by the judge 
of the juvenile court, the boys are examined with special reference 
to eye, ear, nose, and throat, as well as to their general condition, 
and are also vaccinated. In addition to this preliminary examina- 
tion the boys, according to the rule of the board of estimate and 
apportionment, are examined twice a year. The special care of the 
ear, nose, and throat has been intrusted to me. Here I have paid 
particular attention to the most prevalent aft'ections — adenoids 
and hypertrophied tonsils. 

In summing up all 500 examinations, 351 cases were diseased, of 
which 106, or 21-1- per cent, had enlarged tonsils; 89, or 17|^ per 
cent, adenoids; and 116, or 23^ per cent, were combined cases; 
of these, 292, or 58f per cent, required operation, 23 refused it, and 
74 were operated upon ; 149, nearly 30 per cent, were normal. There 
were different degrees in size and disease of adenoids; different forms, 
diffuse and lumpy; different consistencies, soft and hard. The 
faucial tonsils also showed differences in size and consistency. 

Girard College, of Philadelphia, is the only other institution in the 
United States besides the Hawthorne School at which throat opera- 
tions have been performed on a large scale. Among 1,500 boys of 
from 7 to 17 years of age, tonsil and adenoid operations were advised 
in 152 cases, hypertrophy of tonsils was under observation in 124 
cases; operations for deformities of septum advised in 25 cases; 
catarrhal and inflammatory conditions were recommended for 
treatment m 89 cases; 125 operations for the removal of tonsils 
were performed under general anesthesia by Dr. Joseph S. Gibb. 

Examinations of the nose and throat in any institution are useless 
unless they are systematically followed by the necessary operation, 



64 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

and I claim that the removal of all faulty conditions of the nose and 
throat will place any institution on a mor^e wholesome, nay, even 
on a well protected sanitary base. As a matter of fact, the most 
striking feature of the condition of the Hawthorne School at the 
end of 1912 was the remarkable improvement of its entire sanitary 
state, which was the direct result of the large number of operations 
in 1911. This proves not only the importance of this treatment 
for the Hawthorne School, but also the advisability of making it a 
part of the program of every juvenile reformatory. 



A REVIEW AND THE PRESENT STATUS OF THE TONSH. OPERATION. 

Sheeman E. Wright, M. D., Portland, Oreg. 
(Northwest Medicine, November, 1913.) 

We have spoken of the beginning of tonsil surgery when the finger 
was used, we have noted the progress and changes through the 
hundred years when the tonsillotome was the popular instrument, 
and we were satisfied with excising the protruding portion of the 
hypertrophied tonsil down through the past decade when the pen- 
dulum swung to the extreme, and we attempted to do tonsillectomies 
on every man, woman, and child who happened to come our way. 
Now there is a reaction, the pendulum is swinging in the opposite 
direction, and there is a feeling among many of our best men that too 
many tonsils are being removed. 

The tonsil becomes pathologic only when its presence injures the 
individual, either locally or generally, not because someone discovers 
a pair of tonsils in that throat. By the age of 12 to 14 years the 
tonsil has completely disappeared or shows as a hypertrophied or 
cicatricial mass between the pillars. Any tonsil which is visible to 
any marked degree later than this may be considered as a morbid 
growth due to disease and should be removed. 

Until very recently tonsils were judged by their size only, although 
we know full well that the submerged tonsil, which may be quite 
small, is more liable to be doing harm than the large, discrete tonsil. 
When examining a throat, it does not suffice to glance at the tonsils. 
The anterior pillars must be pushed back and the tonsil lifted from 
its bed, and in many cases the tonsil must be palpated. 

I wish most emphatically to go on record regardmg one phase 
of the tonsil. Children who do not present symptoms of obstructed 
breathing and who have not had any tonsillar disease should be 
left alone. Every tonsil that comes to us is not grist for our mill. 
Remember that it is not a question of large or small tonsils, but a 
question of their condition. 

It is immaterial whether you use one instrument or ten in the 
removal of a tonsil. The point of mam interest is that the operation 



THE TONSILS. 65 

shall result iii a complete removal of all the tonsillar tissue with the 
least amount of traumatism to the pillars. 

A perfect anesthesia is not only essential to good tonsil surgery, 
but I believe we may go even further and say that perfect throat 
surgery is impossible without perfect anesthesia. Therefore, great 
care should be exercised in choosing the anesthetist for cases of 
throat surgery. 

WHAT RELATION, IF ANY, HAVE THE FAUCIAL TONSILS TO 
PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS? 

E. Fletcher Ingals, M. D., Chicago. 
(Journal of the Avierican Medical Association, July 12, WIS.) 

I have in my files of histories of private patients over 25,000 
carefully kept records, more than 10 per cent of which are of tuber- 
culosis. In these cases careful examinations were made of the nose 
and throat, as well as of the chesty and the histories were carefully 
taken, for heredity, previous diseases, enlarged lymph nodes, general 
condition at the time of the examination, and indeed everything 
that might have any bearing on the origin or course of the disease. 
Dr. W. S. Bracken, one of my associates, employing all his spare 
time for several months and assisted by some of the other physicians 
in my office, has gone over these records carefully and analyzed 
the findings with a view to discover, if possible, a relation between 
the tonsils and laryngeal or pulmonary tuberculosis. 

He took at random 100 cases (with no selection except to assure 
hhnself that the blanks had been thoroughly filled out), thus giving 
a fair average of the whole. From the records of nontuberculosis 
patients who consulted me for various diseases havmg no relation 
to tuberculosis, such as functional and organic diseases of the heart, 
asthma, simple bronchitis, pleurodynia, emphysema, pharyngitis, 
rhinitis, and laryngitis, he took at random 100 other records for 
control, thus making a fair analysis of my case records of about 
25,000 different private patients. These records are far and away 
more complete and accurate than those of hospital patients. His 
analysis shows that 26 per cent of the tuberculosis patients had 
some macroscopic change in the tonsils varying from slight enlarge- 
ment to marked hypertrophy, ulceration, or other evidence of dis- 
ease. In only 4 per cent was there any record of cervical adenitis, 
and in only one of these was there any change in the tonsils, which 
were noted m that case to be slightly enlarged. 

Among the control cases, 46 per cent of the patients had enlarge- 
ment or other evidence of disease of the tonsils, nearly twice as 
many as in tuberculosis cases; and not one of them had cervical 

74418°— 15 



66 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

adoiiitis. So far as these records go they show that affections 
of the tonsils are much more frequent among nontuberculosis 
than among tuberculosis patients; but that cervical adenitis, 
while comparatively mfrequent (4 per cent only) in tuberculosis 
patients, is much less common in nontuberculosis patients. It 
is a matter of surprise to me to find that in only one of the 
cases of cervical adenitis was there even the slightest evi- 
dence of disease of the tonsils. Ten or fifteen years ago it was 
quite commonly believed that disease of the tonsils was a frequent 
cause of pulmonary tuberculosis; but subsequent research appears 
to have proved that tubercle bacilli may enter and pass through the 
tonsils and cause disease of the cervical lymph nodes, while the 
tonsils themselves may escape all injury; and this research has 
also shown that there is no direct connection between the cervical 
lymph nodes and the pulmonary lymphatics, and, therefore, that 
involvement of the lungs associated with cervical adenitis must be 
a systemic infection rather than a result of the disease of the 
lymphatics. 

From a thorough study of the literatui'e and from an examination 
of my records I am forced to accept as correct the consensus of 
opinion, which now fully sustains the personal views of Jonathan 
Wright, who wrote me in November, 1912, saying: ^'To tell the 
trutli, I do not believe there is any relation between the tonsils 
and pulmonary tuberculosis." 



HYPERTROPHIED TONSILS INTERFERING WITH THE ACTION OF THE 
PALATE AND CAUSING DEFECTIVE SPEECH. 

G. Hudsok-Makuen, M. L>., Philadelphia. 
(Laryngoscope, January, I914.) 

One of the many objections offered to the removal of the faucial 
tonsils is the fact that the operation is liable to be injurious to the 
voice and speech, but little reference has been made to the fact that 
both the voice and speech may be impaired by not doing the opera- 
tion or by leaving the tonsils intact. 

I have previously called attention to the effect upon the jDalate of 
hypertrophied and degenerated tonsillar masses, the larger ones, by 
reason of their bulk and consequent pressure upon the pillars, inter- 
fering with the action of the palate, and the smaller degenerated and 
catarrhal masses, by reason of their sepsis and by the spread of 
their infection, appearing to so obtund the nervous mechanism of the 
palate as to cause a sluggish or paretic action of its muscles. 

The effect upon the speech is similar to that of insufficiency of the 
palate from other causes, such as a cleft palate or other forms of 
paralysis. 



EEMOVAL OF ADENOIDS. 67 

My practice is to do a complete tonsillectomy only in those cases in 
which there is a marked degenerative and catarrhal condition of the 
tonsils, with thickening of the plica and capsule generally; but in 
those cases in which there is mere hypertrophy of the tonsillar masses 
I am of the opinion that a more or less thorough removal of the ton- 
sillar tissue only, leaving the capsule intact, although the more 
difficult, is the more desirable operation so far as the speech and voice 
are concerned, because the resultant motility of the palate is better 
than it is in those cases following complete extracapsular tonsillec- 
tomy, in which we are liable to have cicatricial adhesions and con- 
tractions. This, however, is a subject for discussion, and a most 
interesting one, because it includes the whole question of so-called 
tonsillotomy versus tonsillectomy. 



WHY DOES THE OPERATION FOR REMOVAL OF ADENOIDS 
FREQUENTLY FAIL TO RELIEVE MOUTH BREATHING? 

n. M. McClanahan, M. D., Omaha, Nebr. 
(Arcliives of Pediatrics, October, 1913.) 

The lay public has been taught that mouth breathing in children 
means the presence of adenoids, nothing more, and that certain 
relief will follow an operation for their ablation. This opinion pre- 
vails largely among members of the medical profession, and until 
beginning this study that was the belief of the writer. For many 
years I had noticed that the degree of relief from mouth breathing- 
following adenoidectomy varied greatly in different cases — in some 
very slight, and in others prompt and decided. The following inci- 
dent attracted my attention. On the 1st of August, 1909, 1 operated 
upon a boy 8 years old for adenoids. There was slight if any relief 
from the mouth breathing. Because the operation failed to give 
relief, the mother refused to pay the bill. While the mother's con- 
tention was correct, I was satisfied that the operation was thorough, 
that the vault of the pharynx was free from adenoids, and that the 
failure was not due to any fault of mine. To satisfy myself and to 
determine if possible the reason for the failure, I began a study of the 
effect of this operation in children coming under my observation, not 
only cases upon whom I had operated, but all who had received the 
operation. 

I have examined 52 children who had been operated upon for the 
removal of adenoids. I am not able to give in all cases the date of 
the operation. These children ranged in age from 6 to 12 years. I 
purposely excluded all cases under the age of 6 years. Twenty-eight 
were girls and 24 were boys. There were more girls than boys for the 
reason that many of the girls were operated upon for the cosmetic 



6S THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN". 

effect. Including my own cases, the operation had been performed by 
eight physicians. Four of these are personally known to me to be 
competent operators, men whose practice is limited to the nose and 
throat. I emphasize this point because the failure to relieve mouth 
breathing is often attributed to the lack of skill on the part of the 
operator. Almost without exception I found that the mother was 
disposed to criticize the operator in all the cases where the result was 
not satisfactory. 

In 24 of the cases the operation was a failure in so far as nasai 
inspiration was concerned. Three of these cases had been subjected 
to two operations and one had been operated upon three times, in 
each case by a different surgeon. In 20 of these 24 cases I am satisfied 
that the failure to relieve mouth breathing was not due to faulty 
technique upon the part of the operator or to recurrence of the 
adenoids, but to anatomic conditions in the superior maxilla. In the 
other four there were adenoids in the vault of the pharynx at the 
time of my examination, due either to recurrence or faulty technique. 
In these cases mouth breathing was due to obstruction in the pharynx 
and not to defective development. In 6 of the 24 cases there was 
decided hypertrophy of the tonsils, but I do not believe these caused 
the mouth breathing. How^ever, I may say in passing that the history 
was that all of these children snored during sleep. In all of the 24 
cases there was bad coaptation of the teeth, as well as distinct evi- 
dence of the maldevelopment of the superior maxilla and the other 
bones in intimate relation to it, namely, the vomer, j3alatine, and 
turbinal bones. The type of malformation in 20 of the 24 cases was 
as follows: The hard palate was deep and either circular or angular. 
There was retraction of the mandible, due to its being drawn down- 
ward and backward, and consequent apparent lengthening and actual 
narrowing of the superior maxilla, and in all of this number the upper 
lip appeared short and could be brought in coaptation with the lower 
lip only by a strong muscular effort. This is the typical so-called 
adenoid face, but the appearance is due to defective development of 
the upper jaw. 

As a result of this brief study the writer is entirely convinced that 
it is possible to determine in advance whether or not relief from 
mouth breathing will result from the operation of adenoidectorny. 
In a number of recent cases upon whom I have operated, and cases 
operated upon by other j)hysicians whom I had examined, I have 
been able to say in advance whether or not the operation would give 
relief to the mouth breathing, and this opinion has been verified by 
an examination of the case after the operation. I do not wish to be 
understood as saying that children with defective coaptation of the 
teeth should be deprived of an operation if adenoids are present. 
There are other valid reasons for their removal aside from mouth 



FASAL CATAEEH. 69 

breathing, but in this class of cases the operation should be the pre- 
liminary step in the treatment, and in justice to these children the 
parents should be informed as to the nature of the deformity and of 
the probability of relief by proper treatment from an orthodontist. 



WHY IS NASAL CATARRH SO PREVALENT IN THE UNITED STATES? 

Wolff Freudenthal, M. D., New York. 
{New York MedicalJournal, Jan. 3, 19H.) 

It is proved that dry air, if inhaled, will become saturated in the 
nose and nasopharynx — that is to say, the drier the air we inhale the 
more moisture will be given off by the nose and nasopharynx. The 
work of these organs will be so much greater with every particle of 
air we inhale. How long the mucous membrane of these parts will 
be able to furnish the necessary water supply will only, therefore, be 
a question of time. Consequently, we will, sooner or later, reach that 
point where the mucous membranes of these parts will be as dry as a 
well in summer. This will occur, for example, in very cold weather, 
only temporarily in perfectly healthy persons, or permanently, as we 
see it in so many thousands of cases, in pathological conditions. 

Thus, a dry rhinitis or rhinopharyngitis develops, and I could 
experimentally produce the same conditions in anyone of you under 
like surroundings. This state of the nasal mucosa makes it often 
appear as though the patient had a coryza. For example, if he goes 
out in Vvdnter, his nose will discharge because the mucosa is unable to 
absorb moisture from the atmosphere, as its surface is either dried 
up or covered with scabs. On the other hand, every mechanical 
irritation will produce running of the nose or sneezing much more 
easily than in normal conditions, since the great protection of the nose, 
the epithehum, is gone. These symptoms often lead to a wrong 
diagnosis, and the patient is treated for an acute cold when he has 
nothing but a chronic rhinitis, for which just the contrary treatment 
is indicated. 

As most of us are exposed to this excessively dry atmosphere for the 
greater part of the time, it is evident that the lack of humidity is the 
greatest factor in producing nasal and postnasal catarrh, with all its 
sequelae. To the last-mentioned class belong, among others, the 
granulations or vegetations in the vault of the pharynx, etc. — this 
only apropos. 

But there are other etiological factors to be mentioned here, dust, 
for example, and that may include all other mechanical or chemical 
irritations and repeated attacks of acute coryza, due to a "cold." 

Dust. — I hope you will be convinced from the foregoing remarks 
that dust does not play that important role in the etiology of catarrh 



70 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 



-^ 



which v/as attributed to it by many writers 30 years ago. But just 
walk down our avenues on a windy day and you will be convinced that 
it has some very pernicious effects. The dust developed in our city 
from the dry sweeping of the streets, from the tearing down of build- 
ings, from the upheaval of roads, from the automobiles, from the 
dumping of ashes into uncovered ash carts, etc., all these remind one 
of a government of the Middle Ages and not of a civilized city of the 
tvrentieth century. A period of long drought in our dust-laden town 
is a calamity in winter or smnmer. Kain and snow are blessings that 
not only clear our streets, but our upper air tracts as well. Dust plays 
some role in producing catarrhal conditions of the nose; added to the 
lack of humidity, it becomes an important etiological factor. We 
omit here the other ill effects dust has on the organism. 

Colds. — Is there really such a thing as the catching of a cold with- 
out an infection? I am firmly convinced that there is. In spite of 
the fact that the word "cold"' has been and stiU is so very much 
abused by physicians and lajTiien, I can not believe that every corj^a 
is of an infectious or contagious nature, and I shall never give my 
consent to the demand that every person who sneezes should be 
isolated and treated like a person dangerous to the community. That 
is what some overzealous medical men are advocating. True, there 
is an infectious coryza, especially of grippal origin. If one child in a 
family is stricken with influenza jou will isolate it, whether it sneezes 
or not. In such a case the coryza is only the forerunner or herald of 
a general infection. On the other hand, take the following imagmary 
example: You suddenly expose several persons who were overheated 
to a low temperature and a strong current of air. One person will 
start in to sneeze: another ^^nll have an acute otitis: a third, an irri- 
tation of the bladder; a fourth, diarrhea; and in the fifth may develop 
a facial paralysis. Will any sensible person conclude that these five 
persons were affected simultaneously by the same baciUus in such 
different ways? And yet that is what some men try to make us 
believe. Is it not more credible that an exposure to the inclemency 
of the weather struck everj" one of these five persons at his locus minoris 
resistentisef Can anyone convince you that a man who commences to 
sneeze after walking barefoot through his room caught an infection ? 
Indeed not. These cases are as plain as they can be, but not so their 
treatment. 

Let me insert here a httle humoral pathology for your considera- 
tion. It is not always the quantity of garments worn nor the lack of 
them, nor is it always the strength of a draft nor the current of air that 
counts in the production of these colds. Of much greater importance 
is the condition your entire organism is in at the time of ex^^osure. 
For example, while bathing, i-ovang, running, etc., a person is in a state 
of constant and laborious activity, thereby setting in play those pro- 



liTASAL CATAERH. 71 

cesses by which animal heat is generated. This causes a vasomotor 
reaction that will protect the organism for quite some time, and in 
such a state you may expose yourself much more than when little heat 
had been produced and that without harm. 

The therapy of these affections lies in their prevention. To prevent 
a coryza and other "colds" means restoration of the function of the 
skin to its normal physiological action. The skin is the one organ 
above all that ought to protect us against all thermal and climatic 
influences, but in this age it has been, so to speak, put out of commis- 
sion. Our garments are so manifold that in many instances they do 
not allow the air to penetrate to our skin, and the latter loses its 
function; consequently, a little change in temperature, a Httle rain 
or draft, will upset the equihbrium of most persons, and they will 
present a coryza or some other form of "' cold." The fear of "catching 
cold" is so paramount with many persons that they consider them- 
selves wise in wearing too many garments, as a means of protection. 
Wlien winter arrives, whether it be a cold season or not, people, 
whether healthy or not, wear fur coats; they wear skirts and under- 
skirts, then vests, coats, and overcoats, sweaters, and sometimes 
rubber coats, to be sure that they are dressed "air-tight" or "water- 
proof." 

The same fear prevails in regard to fresh air. Many people do not 
dare to go out if the wmd blows, or if, perchance, it rains. The chil- 
dren are not sent out until their fond mammas, nurses, or frauleins 
are convinced that no rain or snow is likely to fall; and if a child so 
reared is accidentally caught in a shower and takes cold, the mother 
reproaches herself for carelessness, not realizing that it is the whole 
system of former coddling that is to blame. 

People speak of the hardening effect of cold baths. Very true; I 
recommend them myself. But we can be exposed to a cold bath or a 
cold douche for only a f^ minutes, while we might use the fresh air 
for hours of each day. By bringing the fresh air in contact with the 
body the process of hardening will be much more effective than b}' the 
use of cold baths alone. 

COXCLUSIONS. 

1. In order to lessen the great prevalence of catarrh, our systems 
of heating should be changed so as to allow much more moisture to 
evaporate in each hving room. That is especially important in 
schools or meeting halls of every kind — churches, theaters, concert 
or lecture rooms, and assembly rooms of every kind. A pail of water 
in front of the heater is ineffective. We have to employ other means 
m order to overcome the deficient humidity indoors. 

2. In order to prevent colds we have to limit the amount of 
garments worn. 



72 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDKEK. 

3. Exposure to drafts, rain, snow, and all incleinencies of the 
weather ought to be practiced by the youth in order to prevent the 
most preventable of all diseases — colds. 



PREVENTABLE DEAFNESS. 

VfiLLiAM HiBBS TOMUNSON, M. D., Instructor in Diseases of the Ear, Polyclinic Hospital, Philadelphia. 

(Medical Record, Sept. S7, 1913.) 

Summary. — (1) Middle-ear deafness comprises about 80 to 90 per 
cent of all forais of deafness. (2) Ninety per cent of the cases of 
middle-ear deafness have their origin in inflammatory conditions of 
the nasopharynx, with extension to the ear by way of the Eustachian 
tube. (3) Adenoid tissue in the epipharynx is the most frequent 
predisposing cause of middle-ear disease. (4) Systematic aural 
examination in adenoid cases disclosed the fact that a high percentage, 
probably 75 per cent, have some grade of ear involvement. (5) The 
findings of routine ear examination in children with adenoids confirms 
us in the belief that many cases of middle-ear deafness first noticed 
in adult life have their origin in inflammatory conditions of the 
nasophar3^nx, dating from childhood. (6) The milder acute forms 
of catarrhal otitis should receive appropriate treatment, for if 
untreated they are liable to assume the chronic form. (7) Routine 
treatment of chronic catarrhal deafness leaves much to be desired. 
More careful work is necessary if the best results possible are to be 
secured. (8) This is an age of preventive medicine. Possibly in no 
other field is there better opportunity than in the prevention of 
chronic middle-ear disease and its deafness. 



SOME IMPORTANT FACTORS IN THE CONSERVATION OF HEARING. 

C. M. Harris, M. D., Ophthalmologist and Otologist to Conemaugh Valley Memorial Hospital, Johnstown, Pa. 

(Medical Record, Mar. H, 1914.) 

Diseases of the ear may be roughly divided into three classes — those 
aft'ecting the parts concerned in the conduction of sound, those affect- 
mg the perceptive mechanism, and those acting on both. The exter- 
nal ear, external auditory canal, membrana tympani, Eustachian 
tube, middle ear with its contained ossicles and attachments, and the 
cells found in the mastoid process, are all of service in the conduction 
of sound from the outer atmosphere. Lesions in any one or more of 
these parts dcseiVe attention on account of the primary or secondary 
effect they may have on hearing. 

Sound waves are collected by the external ear, pass through the 
canal to the membrana t^^mpani, causing it to vibrate. These 



CONSERVATION OF HEAEING. 78 

vibrations are then carried by means of the ossicles to the membrane 
filling in the oval v/indow, which transmits them to the fluids and 
nerve endings of the internal ear. 

Malformations or injuries of the external ear or canal should, if 
possible, be corrected with little delay. Plastic surgery may correct 
a deformed or injured auricle and even atresia of the bony canal. 
Tumors and inflammations deserve attention. Impaction of ceru- 
men and the presence of foreign bodies are important on account, not 
only of obstruction and disordered hearing, but of the local irritation 
and even ulceration v/hich may ensue, the membrana tympani 
frequently suffering injuries. Eczema of the canal may be caused 
by otorrhea, but in some instances no local cause is apparent. 
Scratching the parts with objects like toothpicks and hairpins can 
only do harm. Early treatment can accomplish much in relieving 
this irritating affection. 

The membrana tympani is sometimes the subject of dhect violence 
by penetrating objects and may be ruptured by the impact of air 
produced by explosions, the slap of a hand, etc. The practice of 
boxing ears should be condemned on this account. Careful aseptic 
treatment after such an occurrence will promote healing and prevent 
infection of the middle ear. The ossicles and internal ear may also 
share in injuries to the membrana tympani. 

In considering the diseases of the middle ear, one is justified iii 
sa3^ing that nearly aU of them origmate in the nose and throat; and 
further, anything which prevents proper physiological breathing is 
very apt to be a contributing cause. Ciliated membrane containing 
mucous glands Imes the nose, the Eustachian tube, and anterior part 
of the middle ear. From that point to the limits of the mastoid cells, 
the mucous glands are absent; in this respect resembling the lining of 
the accessory sinuses of the nose, which is virtually an endosteura. 
This may explain the vulnerability of the mastoid to infection. 

In my experience I have usually found chronic rhinitis in its varied 
forms to be secondary to diseased faucial or pharyngeal tonsils, sinus 
disease, and exostoses and deviations of the septum. Disordered 
turbinates are often only symptomatic. Obstructive tonsils not only 
cause poor nasal breathing, but tend to perpetuate it through mouth 
breathing. When the mouth hangs open, muscular action is not such 
as to cause the oral and nasal bones to spread, which produces a 
narrow face with corresponding nasal fossae and a deflected septum. 
Obstructive elements of any consequence afl'ect proper breathing, and 
while one impaired breath counts for little, many may count for much. 
The Vascular control in the mucous membranes becomes affected, and 
this in a short time brings about derangement of the mucous secretion 
associated with swelling. Finally, the so-called catarrhal inflamma- 
tion becomes demonstrable with its various objective and subjective 



74 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEElSr. 

symptoms. When the nasopharyngeal membrane becomes disor- 
dered as described, pathogenic germs, which we always have with us, 
find an inviting field, and successive attacks of acute rhinitis occur, 
adding fuel to the chronic process. It can well be claimed that colds 
occur only when our nasal membranes are nonresistant, be it due to 
local or general causes. The Eustachian tube is vu'tually a part of 
the nasopharynx and is commonly involved when the previously 
described acute or chronic inflammatory lesions are present. This 
tube is but IJ inches long, and its sides are almost in contact at one 
point. Instead of the middle ear being normally ventilated, with 
consequent suitable adjustment of the vibrating structures, a partial 
vacuum is created by the tubal obstruction, thus deranging the 
function of the entire ear. 

It should be emphasized that a diseased f aucial or pharyngeal tonsil, 
with or without the nasal changes to which I have alluded, frequently 
causes much clironic inflammatory change in the middle ear and tube, 
especially when adenoid tissue partly siu'rounds the tubal orifice. 

Acute nonpurulent tubo-tympanic inflammation is very apt to com- 
plicate the ordinary cold, the symptoms being diminished hearing, a 
swoUen stuffy feeling about the tubes and ears, possibly associated 
with tinnitus or slight pain. Such a process often becomes subacute, 
lasting for several weeks. Local and general treatment is of great 
im_portance, as each attack does some damage and may be one of the 
stepping stones to chronic deafness. Successive attacks should lead 
us to seek some local or general cause. In chronic nonpurulent tubo- 
tympanic disease hypertrophy, atrophy, calcification of the soft parts 
with ankylosis of the ossicles may occur, and owing to the inaccessi- 
bility of the parts, thorough success in treatment is unknown. I have 
already indicated the importance of intelligent nasal and pharyngeal 
surgery in the prevention and cure of ear disease. The term surgery 
is here used, as some corrective operation should not uncommonly 
precede local or general treatment. Wiiile I have nothing but com- 
mendation for the well-performed tonsil and adenoid operations in 
properly selected cases, I feel free to predict that within a few years 
otologists will be confronted with some more or less obscure and irre- 
mediable tubal disorders directly due to impaired action of the tensor 
palati and levator palati muscles which normally dilate and contract 
the tube in addition to aiding in speaking, swallowing, and breathing 
through their insertion in the velum palati. Reckless and inefiicient 
operating, which is all too common, brings about actual muscular 
destruction, cicatrices, and contractures which are bound to affect 
physiological action. If every operator would take the trouble to 
study the fauces and pharyngeal vault of such cases subsequent to 
operation, he would frequently find conditions worthy of criticism, 
even though the operation had been well done. 



AUDITORY ACUITY. 75 

It has been reported that nearly 25 per cent of the patients attend- 
ing aural clinics are children under 14 years of age; of this number, 
50 per cent are subjects of suppurative inflammation of the middle 
ear, and of this portion 10 per cent or more owe their origin to the 
exanthemata of childhood. Of the cases of deafness in the United 
States, 27 per cent are said to be due to suppurative middle-ear dis- 
ease of childhood. After excluding measles and scarlatina, it has 
been estimated that 95 per cent of all discharging ears in children are 
due to adenoids, and in the fevers mentioned adenoids are usually 
predisposing causes. 

Skillful attention early in the course of most of these affections 
would do much to conserve hearing. Many patients come to us too 
late, whereas a large majority could have been benefited and the dis- 
ease arrested had they come before the development of permanent 
damage. Contributing causes should be treated early, and deafness, 
which is onl}" a symptom, avoided. As much depends upon the 
actions of the patient as on those of the doctor. Cordial cooperation 
is necessary. Diet, hygiene, sanitation, personal habits, occupation, 
climate, and general health all have a vital direct or indirect bearing. 



THE MEASUREMENT OF AUDITORY ACUITY. 

Walter A. Wells, M. D., Washington, D. C. 
(Journal of the American Medical Association, Sept. 27, WIS.) 

Conclusions. — From this general review of the chief methods of 
measuring auditory acuity, it is very evident that, as at present 
employed, they fall very short of the perfection greatly to be desired. 
Tliey are both defective and deficient; no one of them is equal to all 
the demands of a complete acoumetry, and in what they attempt they 
are erroneous and easily lead to faulty interpretations. 

The difficulties with which we have to contend are of two kinds — 
those which arise from the nature of the function being explored and 
others connected with the various tests themselves and the manner in 
which thej" are conducted. 

vStrictly speaking, we can not really measure auditory sensation at 
all, because it is not a quantity divisible into equal units. We arrive 
at estimation of the power circuitously, by measuring the energy 
employed in producing a given sensation, on the ground that audi- 
tory power is in inverse proportion to the intensity of the stimulus. 
We take as the criterion or standard of measure the lowest energy 
which we find is needed to produce just an appreciable perception of 
sound. This we call the liminal value, or, from the standpoint of the 
ear, the threshold of excitation. 



76 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDRElSr. 

As Vie are obliged to depend on the intei-j^retation and response of 
the subject, results wiU vary with degrees of intelligence and espe- 
cially of aptness and attention. In testing with speech, for example, 
in which case the apperceptive faculties play an important role, 
education, training, and envhonment greatly influence the response. 
Expectation and suggestion are psychologic factors which may vitiate 
the validity of tests otherwise carefully carried out, and in children it 
is necessary to eliminate as far as possible fear, nervousness, and 
anxiety. 

In some recent experiments I have shown that the ear, by being 
continuously exposed to sounds, readily shows fatigue, which) of 
course, markedly lowers the threshold of excitation. This was found 
to occur with greater readiness with sounds at the two extremes of the 
trial scale, but especially vv^ith those of the upper limit. It has been 
proved that gexieral fatigue of the body will lessen the acuity of the 
senses, including that of audition. 

With regard to the tests themselves, there are many and various 
sources of error. These should be well understood and carefully 
borne in mind, if we would avoid the fallacies of too impHcit faith in 
their accuracy and reliability. Of all the sources of error, the one 
which is most carefully to be guarded against is that of depending on 
distance as a reliable means of estimating sound intensity. In the 
first place, if there is a relation existing at all, it is not a simple one, as 
might be inferred from the common practice of exj^ressing auditory 
acuity by a fraction in which the normal hearing distance is taken as 
a denominator and the distance at which it is heard as the numerator. 

The fact is the intensity of sound diminishes with distance geo- 
metrically and not arithmetically. Suppose, therefore, a loud watch 
which can be heard normally at 100 inches is heard at only 40, indi- 
vidual hearing power is not correctly expressed as 40 per cent, but as 
16 per cent; while if the patient hears at only 30 inches his hearing 
acuity, instead of being 30 per cent, is really reduced to 9 per cent. 
But, unfortunately, when distance is used as a means of arri\ang at 
the intensity of the stimulus, the law of geometric diminution is upset 
by other disturbing factors. The absorption and reflection of sound 
waves, the influence of extraneous noises, and the participation of the 
other ear in tests made with loud sounds, especially when the latter 
are of high pitch, may each, singly or jointly, upset all calculations. 
En-ors flowing from such causes enter especially into the commonly 
employed tests made with the tuning fork, the watch, the acoumeter, 
and speech, and, therefore, seriously affect the validity of the results 
which are obtained. 

The errors arising from the lack of a uniform initial intensity are 
encountered in those tests in which this is depended on. It is one of 
the drawbacks in the use of the human voice, the intensity of which 



TEMPEEAMEISTT. 77 

can be only roughly gauged, and differs even with the choice of vowels 
and their arrangement, and also in the use of the tuning forks, whose 
intensity must be estimated by calculations that are complex and 
faulty. The presence of harmonics is a bad fault in many instruments 
used in acoumetry. They tend to cover the fundaijiental tones and 
so lead to erroneous conclusions, 

Nearly all the tests which are in general use a,re open to the objec- 
tion that they apply to only limited portions of the whole auditory 
field and can not therefore be rega,rded as giving a complete measure 
of auditory power. It is this that explains the observation which 
has been frequently made that a person may seem to have a good 
hearing for the v/atch and at the same time have great difficulty in 
hearing speech. 

Tests used with the idea of covering a great part of the auditory 
fi-eld, including the upper and lower limits — the so-called qualitative 
tests — are often applied without regard to the function of intensity. 
As I have pointed out, the limits of sound perception might be 
extended and apparent hiatus disappear by merely employing greater 
intensity. It might be useful to know the amount of intensity 
necessary to get the threshold of excitation for different notes of the 
scale. A general survey of the subject of auditory mensuration leads 
to the inevitable conclusion that there is great need of a system that 
will meet the exacting requirements of otologic purposes. 

The ideal instrument for testing audition, from an otologist's 
standpoint, would be one capable of producing all the notes of the 
scale, from the highest to the lowest, in pure tones free from harmonies 
and capable of giving these notes in intensities readily measurable 
and varying from a point below the threshold of excitation of the most 
sensitive hearing up to a degree necessary to awake sensation in 
persons suffering from the most profound deafness. 

Moreover, in order that such an apparatus may deserve universal 
acceptance, it must be possible to construct as many others as are 
wanted of the same type, each constant for itself and precisely similar 
to the others. It is only then that we can hope to make it available 
for a uniform notation comparable among different observers. 



TEMPERAMENT IN CHILDREN. ' 

Mart Sutton Macy, M. D., Assistant Neurologist, Demilt Dispensary, Xcw York City. 
( Woman's Medical Journal, March, 1904-) 

In tlie first place, there is the sanguine temperament whose char- 
acteristic is rapid and easy responsiveness to all impressions and 
interests. This is the characteristic mood of childhood, which lives 

1 General title of article: "Tears, Tantrums, and Temperament." 



78 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEIST. 

on in the temperament of the man or the woman who is something of 
everything and witlial nothing much. The greatest strength of this 
temperament hes in its frank and ready receptivity and the promise 
therein contained of a pregnant contact with experience; but then 
it has its sahent defects. It is wayward and infirm of purpose, with 
a terrible facihty for skimming the surface of experience; it is 
incapable of devotion or even real affection, and, left to itself, will 
develop a butterfly emotionalism as its final type of existence. Such 
sanguine children, as they grow older, must be associated with those 
of more strenuous porpose; environed by those of a more intensive, 
purposeful temperament; their temperament must be deepened by 
struggle and self-denial; they must be convinced, not merely told, 
that something definite is expected of them; and in adolescence they 
must be yoked to more energetic colaborers, or enlisted in the active 
service of some great organization. 

Of the choleric temperament — the one next most characteristic to 
the moods of childhood — the keynotes are precipitancy and per- 
sistence. There is no danger to such a one of flightiness or pursuit — 
the very intensity of interest precludes that, even though the volatile 
nature favors a pitiful fragmentariness of accomplishment. The 
danger is rather one of developing an obstinate narrowness; of ulti- 
mately attaining to that limitation of character which marks the 
man w ho is driven through Uf e by some impulsive coercive proclivity. 
Of all types of temperament, this is the most refractory to train, since 
it usually happens that, if the parent proposes, the child disposes 
otherwise. The choleric individual can be led, but never driven; but 
he can only be led if the leader is most careful and the leading string 
does not show. When some salient proclivity is pronounced, it may 
still be judiciously modified; or even if some counterproclivity be 
available and trainable, a total reversal of proclivities may be pro- 
duced. The temperament is, after all, worth humoring, for it is 
probably by these individuals that the world's hardest work is done; 
but the mother who would guide a choleric child to gain the most 
from its temperament must walk warily and with a sure grasp of the 
facts that ' ' you may lead a horse to water, but you can not make him 
drink," and that a ruling instinct will indubitably, under flat con- 
tradiction, become a ruling passion. 

A very different picture is presented by the nervous type of tem- 
perament. Unlike the sanguine, it has not the openness of outlook 
nor the ready responsiveness to environment; but it dips into moods 
instead of skimming the surface, and has also a tendency to brood 
over the things which touch its sensitiveness, even to the paint of 
m-orbidity. The depth of its interests compensates for its want of 
readiness and flexibility. Unlike the choleric temperament, it has 
not the precipitancy or volatility of the intense interests. Whatever 



HYGIENE OF NEKVOUS CHILDRElSr. 79 

the future that awaits it it will probably take life seriously, and it 
will be the very preoccupation with specific and definite interests and 
experiences which ^^'ill hold the danger element for such a one. 
Because of this preoccupation many phases of life will pass by unno- 
ticed; and because emotion, which should always be the prelude to 
expression, comes to be valued so much for its own sake that it 
quenches the practical impulses it should have vitalized, there is great 
danger that sentimentality will become the dominant characteristic. 
Such temperaments must be environed by energetic, active interests, 
by wholesome affections, broad outlook, and definite purpose in 
action. 

The proverb states "that it is not a rearing but a dead horse that is 
hardest to drive," and so it appears that the phlegmatic temperament 
is the one which is truly the despair of the educator. This is probably 
the result of its marked stolidity and apparent unresponsiveness. 
The very slovmess and dehberateness of thought and action argues a 
reserve of strength. If the nervous is the most refractory, this is the 
most aggravating; but, because of its virtue of stead}' contentment, 
individuals of this temperament may well quote Swain's verse: 

"Content is a vessel not built for display, 

Though she's ready and steady, come storm when it may." 

Association with playmates of sanguine temperament is helpful — 
should be mutually so — but results must not be expected at once. 



SOME FACTS RELATING TO THE HYGIENE OF NERVOUS CHILDREN. 

Mary O'Malley, M. D., Senior Assistant Physician, Government Hospital for the Insane, Washington , D. C. 
( The Woman's Medical Journal, August, WIS.) 

To speak in broad terms there are two types of nervous children — 
the unrestrained, in which the emotional impulses are given sway, 
and the restrained emotional type. In the first class, the unre- 
strained type, the intellectual capacit}^ is above the average as a rule. 
The marked essential features of this child are timidity and great 
restless energy. He is high-strung, discouraged on slight provoca- 
tion, alwa^^s looking for trouble, and worries over the most trivial 
matters, finds a great effort in meeting difficulties, very demonstra- 
tive and affectionate, etc., which is, however, due to selfishness. 
Such children demand sympathy and think that they are ill used if 
every one does not allow them to have their own waj. They resent 
discipline and argue rather than obey. They are quick to learn, but 
forget facts easily. They are enthusiastic about their work, but lack 
judgment. They are sensitive and suffer agonies over trivial offenses. 
They work rapidly and energetically for a time, then are dull and 
lethargic, and meet failure in eft'orts of application. Sometimes these 



80 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

children have a keen sense of humor and are appreciative of the 
ludicrous, which is their salvation if they cultivate it. Some of 
these may be successful in art or literature in after life, but they 
frequently fail from lack of industry, application, and common sense. 
The sanitariums and psychopathic hospitals find many recruits from 
among this class. The physical and mental signs of this type of 
children are familiar to the medical profession. 

In the second type the restrained emotions are very deeply felt, 
but the powers of control are equally strong. Such children are 
observant, intelligent, often so reserved and retiring that they often 
pass as being duU, stupid, and obstinate. They are highly sensitive, 
shy, and vain. They seem to lack in affection, but really long for it 
and brood over slights or seeming neglect. Being slow to become 
offended, they are often shamefully bullied at home or at school, but 
suffer all with the utmost indifference, except for periodic outbreaks 
of fury, in which they show a revengeful spirit. They are solitary 
in habits, imaginative, and introspective. They take life seriously 
and are wanting in a sense of humor. This characterological dis- 
position, with its suppression of external display of emotions, is as 
exhaustive to the child as is that of the other type, in which the 
emotional energy is unrestrained, and it is associated with many 
similar complaints. For instance, they are lacking in self-control, 
and it is apt to lead to dreamy states and later to mental disorders. 

We have also in addition to these two classes in which the intel- 
lectual faculties are above those of the average person another type. 
In this the intellect is b}^ no means keen or even up to the normal 
standard, and such children are aware of the fact; but they have 
the ambition to succeed and are jealous of their associates who are 
endowed with superior intellectual powers. Frequently by faithful 
striving they manage to keep up with or excel their competitors, 
but the energy required for this is often too much for them — they 
break down physically as well as mentally, particularly if in after 
life they are given much responsibility in a position for which they 
know themselves to be imqualified. As a rule we find this class, 
although not always, among the female sex. 

Parents and teachers may often be able to recognize and trace 
nervousness in children by the discovery of a deviation from the 
normal of one or more of the special senses — taste, smeU, sight, 
hearing, or touch. For instance, hypersensitiveness to taste may be 
regarded as one of the earliest manifestations of a nervous child. 

Hypersensitiveness to sound, with accompanying fear and shock 
occasioned thereby, is perhaps the most common of aU indications 
of a nervous temperament in infants * * *. There is little doubt 
that dread of noises often accounts for timidity and lack of socia- 
bihtv in many nervous children. 



HYGIENE OF NERVOUS CHILDEEN. 81 

Hypersensitivencss to common sensations of touch, pain, and tem- 
perature are also important signs which show an abnomial impres- 
sionabihty of the mind and body to external and internal influences. 

Wc will next consider the subject of fear in nervous children. Chil- 
dren show a great variation in their individual susceptibility for fear. 
In former generations fear was considered necessary to morality, and 
a child who displayed timidity was treated by frightening him to make 
him courageous. Plato's method of testing children's courage was 
by exposing them to the horrors of witchcraft. Whether fear is 
caused by the supernatural or from physical ill usage or from ridicule, 
it has the same serious influence on the mental and physical health 
of children. Much of the self-consciousness, depressions, and obses- 
sions which are often observed in adults may be traced to the effects 
of fear in childhood. In young children, when indications of hyper- 
sensitiveness to fear are observed, they should be met with kindness, 
sympathy, explanation, and removal of the cause where it is possible. 
This is of all the emotions the one that produces the most lasting 
effects upon the nervous system of a child. Oliver Wendell Holmes 
speaks of a glover's sign, in the shape of a huge hand, that hung in 
the streets of his home village, which in his early life terrified him 
night and day. We are all familiar to a more or less degree with 
the result of fright. An excessive timidit}^ in a young child is one 
of the earliest indications of a nervousness to come. It is often 
shown by starts and outbreaks of crying and tremblings at the 
sights and sounds which only create amusement in normal children. 

Nervous children are very imaginative, and they are often attracted 
to and influenced by the supernatural. The possible effects of cer- 
tain forme of religious teaching and moral training upon nervous 
children need careful consideration, and from a medical point of 
view it is recommended that onlv the most cheerful, most soothing;, 
and restful side of religious faiths should be taught to children who 
are by nature imaginative or inclined to be superstitious. Exag- 
gerated statements of any kind, extreme and biased views on any 
subject — such as the evils of alcoholic stimulants, coffee, tea, and 
tobacco — are in a high degree injurious to nervous children; although 
I am sorry to state that many men and women of good professional 
reputation show poor judgment in advancing these facts. Excessive 
remorse for slight misdemeanors is sometimes a characterological 
anomaly in neurotic children. Thackeray describes his great mental 
agony for having spent fourpence of his parent's money for a lunch 
while on his wa}^ home from school, even though famished with 
hunger. How many of us can recall the suffering and contrition for 
some trifling offense in childhood. 



82 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN, 

Often children are delayed in their progress in school by their 
constant terror of a whipping or punishment of some sort. Tliis 
means of discipline should certainly be condemned in the cases of 
emotional children — it may harm a child both mentally and physi- 
cally. Neurotic children are, as a rule, keenly alive to their short- 
comings, which are often numerous, and the mental worry they 
undergo is often greater than they can bear. 

Of ten those who are in authority do an irreparable injury to nervous 
children by shouting their commands and instructions at them. 
This has no effect upon the ordinary boy, but shouting parents or 
teachers are unfit to control or instruct neurotic children. 

At one time disciplinarians dealt with children who were ill-tem- 
pered, peevish, dishonest, quick-tempered, untruthful, pugnacious, 
spiteful, and in any way immoral; but now the medical profession is 
frequently requested for advice in helping to decide whether such cliil- 
dren are abnormal or criminal. At present the tendency seems to be 
to regard any bad conduct as evidence of ill health, and often it is the 
case that after a severe or exhausting illness — as typhoid fever, 
measles, scarlet fever, etc. — nervous children who have been well 
trained and previously well conducted often seem to lose to some 
extent normal control and show moral indiscretions. But one wall 
find in the majority of these cases that these lapses are transitory; 
that health and morality under good management are restored in 
time. Slight moral irregularities are frequently observed in boys and 
girls at the age of pubertj^, and may only be an indication of nervous 
instability, and should not always be looked upon too seriously. In 
all cases we must take into consideration the age, inheritance, and 
environment of the child, together with the nature of the lapses in the 
moral sphere, and then the child himself. It is said that a child of 3 
has no moral sense; at 6 it shows some consideration for its associates; 
at 8 it should have some definite ideas of right and wrong. It is of 
the utmost importance to take into consideration the history of such 
neuroses as hysteria, epilepsy, alcoholism, and insanity existing in the 
ancestry in the case of moral delinquencies occurring in a child upward 
of 8, whatever its home training or environment may be. 

We must also keep in mind the psychic effects upon a child where 
we find the parents dull and narrowminded, intellectual but emo- 
tionally unstable, indifterent, inattentive, apprehensive, and well- 
meaning, but fretful. Some jDarents we will find too strict or rigid in 
discipline; others are too lenient. Some show a lack of sympathy, 
while others are too sympathetic. In most cases, however, you can 
find an explanation of the child's ill health or misconduct in the char- • 
acter of its parents, teachers, or associates. n' inaa'Sii 

I shall further enumerate a few traits which may appear in the 
neurotic child; but at this point I wish to say that a nervous child is 



HYGIENE OF NEEVOUS CHILDKEX. 83 

easily provoked by calling atteiition in public to its shortcomings, 
particularly when, as frequently is the case, it has made an effort to 
correct them, 

(1) Cruelty in children, if persistent and induced by sheer delight 
in causing and witnessing pain, is evidence of a morbid neurosis. 
Neurotic subjects are sometimes fascinated by thoughts of pain and 
torture, and in some the sight of sufferizig produces a desire to cause it. 

(2) Fits of 'passion and fury are very common in emotional children, 
and often call for medical advice. A baby that never cries is not 
always a healthy child. A husky, normal infant will cry with rage 
in order to make its wants known. It is only when children have 
come to a certain age, where they are expected to show some self- 
control, that fits of temper are considered morbid. Frequent out- 
breaks of violent temper are indications of nervous instability. 
Children vary greatly in their capacity for reacting to their emotions, 
and also in the degree of self-control to which they attain. Self- 
control may be cultivated in children by careful management, instruc- 
tion, and display of judgment and common sense on the part of their 
parents and teachers. 

(3) Paroxysms of crying without reason are very common in neu- 
rotic children. It is often unwise to seek for the cause of these epi- 
sodic attacks. The children are usually aware that the cause is of 
little importance and not worth mentioning, and are ashamed of 
themselves for giving way to their emotions. If forced to give a 
reason, they will often prevaricate rather than be dubbed "cry baby," 
and thereby lead themselves into further trouble. 

(4) Jealousy in young cJiildren is sometimes the cause of much 
unhappiness, but fortunately these cases are rare. An affection that 
is not reciprocated may be as upsetting to a child as to the adult- and 
if we regard the natural instinct of jealousy as indicating a malicious 
disposition not worthy of sympathy in a child, the foundation of 
viciousness, despair, sadness, and discontent may be sown with their 
depressing permanent effects upon the child's future health and 
happiness. 

(5) Dishonesty and untruthfulness in children must be carefully 
considered. A child who steals apples or cakes is not necessarily a 
thief, nor does one lie make a liar. Timidity is frequently the cause 
of apparent untruthfulness. Some children have had the superior 
qualities of truthfulness so instilled into their young minds that they 
live in constant fear of telling a lie, and so, when the opportunity 
arises, they become frightened and say "no," when they really know 
they should answer in the affirmative. Others appear to falsify from 
absent-mindedness or because the question does not admit of a direct 
answer, although they are often too frightened to say so, and therefore 
seem to lie. These simple facts are important, for often a child may 
suffer greatly from a feeling that its word may not bo believed. 



84 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

(6) Much harm may be done by teasing children whenever they 
manifest an attraction for tlie opposite sex. The distressing shyness, 
blushing, and self-consciousness which is often observed in 3^oung 
people in company of members of the opposite sex may often be 
traced to this want of consideration by their elders for their infantile 
attachments. Freedom of social intercoiu'se between sexes, under 
careful oversight, is advised, and especially the coeducation of sexes 
during school life is to the advantage of either sex. 

Iji conclusion, just a word concerning mental overstrain as the result 
of educational overwork, for we can not lose sight of the fact that the 
results of emotional excitability can not be overlooked. Quite inde- 
pendent of the actual amount of study done, the fear of failing in his 
class v/ork may in one case produce overstrain; in another, an actual 
ambition to excel his companions may lead by easy steps to exhaust- 
ing emotions — such as jealousy, hate, and all uncharitableness toward 
his classmates — while in a third, disappointment on account of failing 
in success results in brain exhaustion. Girls are more liable to break 
down under such circumstances than boys. 



NERVOUS CHILDREN. 

THEOPniL Klingmann, M. D., Demonstrator in Neurology in the University of Michigan. 
(Journal of Michigan State Medical Society, March, 1914.) 

Ip. the majority of nervous children one is able to demonstrate a 
certain endogenous predisposition, the so-called psychopathic or neu- 
ropathic disposition. But in studying the personality of the father,- 
or the mother and perhaps the several other children of the family, as 
well as the general environment of the child, the ejidogenous pre- 
disposition does not appear so prominent as a causative factor of 
nervousness. Many times the nern'opathic disposition is an acquired 
complex of nervous manifestations, the residt of environment. How- 
ever this may be, it is true that the resistance of children to outside 
influences at the time of birth is just as variable as their external 
appearance. One child becomes easily nervous, another less so, a 
third under the most careful regulations is predestined to be a nervous 
child. Among the avoidable exogenous causes of nervous children 
are the mistakes of early training, involving the personality and 
situations created by those having this responsibility, in which the 
physician is frequently a prominent figure. 

Faulty training of children begins immediately after birth. A 
child in the first days, weeks, and months of life requires a great deal , 
of sleep, in the first week at least 20 hours in the 24, and for months 
after 16 hours. There are many conditions too numerous to mention 
here that prevent this, even in the best regulated homes, but all of 



NERVOUS CHILDEEN. 85 

them avoidable. At this time these outward influences are only 
reflex, since, as already mentioned, there are no psychic impressions 
at this period of life. Later the usual method of amusing the child is 
unquestionably harmful. The small child should be lonesome and 
not subjected to the stimulation arising from the implements we 
choose to call toys. 

The overstimuiated child, the unusual child, or the wonderful child, 
frequently is a nervous child. It is often pathetic to hear the mother 
boast that her child can read at 3 or 4 years or can produce melodies 
after hearing them for the first time. Such children are frequently 
more or less exhausted by the tune they reach the school age and are 
not equal to the demands made upon their neural resources. When 
the problems of the school curriculum become more difficult, there 
appear periods of exhaustion, irritability, disturbed sleep, etc. 

Corporal punishment in childhood is a barbaric method of trammg. 
It is no longer permissible in punishing criminals; why should it be 
tolerated in the training of children ? The normal child may survive 
with an amiable disposition, while that of the nervous child is surely 
not improved by such treatment. 

The desu-e for freedom is an early manifestation in the child's 
emotional sphere, and any forced restrictions will invariably produce 
reactions or resentment. When it is necessary to apply force, there 
is always an error of trainmg or in the disposition of the parent. It 
is therefore unnatural and unfavorable for ihe physiologic dpvelop- 
ment of the child to be surrounded by and compelled to follow severe 
regulations in the home or in the school. An equilibrium can be 
established only by carefully observmg the reactions of the mdividual. 

Of the greatest importance in this connection are the physical and 
psychic trauma which not infrequently arise as a result of this form 
of applied force. The effect of a physical trauma and also of the 
psychic, to a certain extent, is the same as in the adult, resulting in 
a pathologic reaction in any psycho-pathologic mdividual. The ma- 
jority of cases of hysteria m adult life have their origin in this period 
and from this cause. 

In groupmg nervous conditions of childhood the writer has chosen 
the plan of Cramer, who collects the symptoms under four heads, as 
foUows : Neurasthenia, endogenous nervousness, complicated endoge- 
nous nervousness, and hysteria. 

NEURASTHENIA. 

In childhood, as m the adult, there is an exhaustion of the cortical 
nerve centers which occurs in children who are not necessarily of a 
neuropathic disposition, and is the result of strenuous mental effort 
without sufficient tune for recuperation in rest and sleep, and which 
results m a chronic exhaustion of the brain centers. This type of 



86 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

disturbance undoubtedly forms the smallest number of nervous 
children. In 200 cases of nervousness observed by the writer there 
were but 19 that could be thus classified. 

ENDOGEXOUS NERVOUSNESS. 

This is a nervous exhaustion in a child with a marked neuropathic 
disposition and follows a moderate mental exertion in one who has 
the requisite amount of rest and sleep for a normal child. In other 
words, it has to do with a child with diminished resistance who has 
not the endurance of the normal child under normal conditions. 
This class was represented by 28 in 200 cases, the ages of the patients 
ranging from 6 to 13. 

COMPLICATED ENDOGENOUS NERVOUSNESS. 

This form of nervous affection is due to physical ailments in pre- 
disposed children. In this class belong the intensely nervous, sensi- 
tive, excitable, irritable, restless child ever prone to habit spasms, 
nocturnal incontinence, etc., yet who may show no actual evidence 
of nerve exhaustion. Among the more common causes are enlarged 
tonsils and adenoids, eye defects, diseases of the skm, disorders of 
digestion, constipation, and incipient tuberculosis. In the writer's 
series there were 93 belonging to this class. 

HYSTERL\. 

Here the child presents a marked neuropathic disposition which is 
most evident in hypersuggestibility, increased imaginative power, 
and inclination to lability and emotionalism. The physical stig- 
mata are apparently not so numerous m childhood as in the adult. 
Anesthetic conjunctivae are fi"equently met with, as weU as areas of 
anesthesia and hyperesthesia. When these are demonstrated, they 
are sharply circumscribed and usually located on the back, thorax, 
and abdomen. Of the 200 cases recorded, 70 were classified as hys- 
teria, the ages of the patients ranging between 4 and 14 years; 58 
of these patients were girls. 

Out of 200 cases of hysteria m the adult I was able to collect 173 
cases that had their origin in a psychic trauma occurring between 
the ages of 4 and 10 years. In 90 per cent of the cases I was able to 
show a neuropathic disposition in one or both parents. In 200 cases 
of adult neurasthenia between the ages of 18 and 45 years there were 
but 12 per cent that gave a history of nervousness in childhood. In 
42 per cent of all cases I was able to trace a neuropathic disposition 
in one or both parents. In all of the 12 per cent there was a history 
of nervousness in the parents. 



NEEVOUS CIIILDKEK. 87- 

CONCLUSIONS. 

The conclusions one may draw from the analysis of the 200 cases 
of nervous children are that neurasthenia, pure and simple, is not 
frequent in the earlier periods of childhood ; it is not as a rule hered- 
itary, and neurasthenia of adult life is not a persistence of chUdhood 
neurasthenia; the most common causative factor in childhood is 
mental ovei'work without the requisite periods of rest, owing to the 
patient's surroundings. 

In cases of endogenous uncomplicated nervousness a marked neu- 
ropathic disposition is prevalent and no doubt is the hereditarily 
weak child which has diminished resistance and is unable to cope with 
the more strenuous mental life. This form is not observed until the 
school age is reached and continues in adult life to form the group 
loiown as nervous men and women, and possibly may also include 
the cases grouped under psychasthenia. Complicated endogenous 
nervousness is observed much earlier in the child, the youngest in 
the series being 1 year old. It is the most frequent form of nervous- 
ness in childhood and shows the importance of physical disease in 
the production of nervous disorders. 

Hysteria in the adult is a persistence of the disease in childhood in 
the majority of cases. The disease itself is not hereditary, but may 
to a certain extent be dependent upon a predisposition, either 
acquired or hereditary. 



NEUROTIC, PSYCHASTHENIC, AND HYSTERICAL CHILDREN. 

J. P. Ckozer Griffith, M. D., Professor of Pediatrics, Uniiersily of Pennsylvania. 
{Netv York MedicalJournal, June 6, 19U.) 

The treatment of any of these nervous conditions under considera- 
tion is a subject of great interest and of even greater difficulty, since 
every case must be handled individually and there can be only 
general rules to guide us. 

Preventive treatment is to be first considered. In connection with 
this subject must necessarily be elaborated to some extent what ho.s 
already been said in discussmg etiology. From earliest infancy there 
should be caution against overexcitement and mental overstimula- 
tion of any sort. This applies to all infants, since no one can tell 
what nervous manifestations may develop later in young infants 
apparently entirely healthy; but it applies with especial force to 
those with nervous ancestry or who have themselves shown early 
neurotic manifestations. Abundant undisturbed sleep is of great 
importance. The presence in the house of a number of noisy older 
children is often a detriment in this respect; while many infants are 
kept up much too late in the day in order that father may see them; 



88 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEK. 

and still others, especially the first-born of doting parents, arc even 
awakened from sleep and perhaps brought downstairs to be exhib- 
ited to admiring friends. The baby suffers, too, from the constant 
desire of the parents and other relatives to have hmi evolve mentally 
in a manner superior to the babies of their acquaintances. This is 
all wrong. The infant should oftener be retarded than stmiulated in 
his mental development. 

As childhood is attained the same precautions must be taken not 
to strain the intellectual and emotional powers too greatly. Stories 
which are exciting should not be told to the child, and especially those 
containing elements which may be the cause of the develpoment of 
fear. Many of the old-time fairy and folk stories are very objection- 
able from this point of view. The beginning of school life requires 
careful supervision. Naturally, the child must be taught; but the 
teaching should, in my opinion, always be regarded as secondary to 
the maintaining of a healthy condition of the mind and body. The 
study hours are far too long for many children. ,In the case of those 
vrho learn quickly this does not apply, so far as the actual mental 
work is concerned; although the hours spent in school often take 
away too much from the time which should be occupied m play in the 
open air. With those, however, who find study somewhat of a 
burden, especially if they are of a neurotic disposition, too much 
school work is often the cause of the development of nervous symp- 
toms of some sort. 

A very important matter is the avoidance of too constant associa- 
tion of infants or children with excitable or nervous relatives, espe- 
cially parents or older brothers or sisters. The entire household 
life is too strenuous for them; while the observation by the child of 
uncontrolled nervous or other exhibitions on the part of the parents 
is distinctly harmful. On the other hand, nothing is more productive 
of nervous peculiarities than the too careful rearing of an only child 
in association only with older persons. Often nothing is better for a 
"pecuhar" child than having its rough corners pohshed off by min- 
ghng with playmates. The ruthless criticisms of these will often undo 
to some, extent the evil influence of the too affectionate and con- 
siderate parents. 

AH that has just been said appHes with increased force where 
infants or children have already decided nervous manifestations. 
In addition, other measures must be taken to bring about a cure. In 
the first place among these, the general health of the patient must be 
carefully studied, and treatment commenced if necessary — as it, 
nearly always is. Anemia and debility are to be corrected, and espe- 
cial attention is to be given to the digestive apparatus. In my, own 
experience the neurotic and psychopathic states are most frequently 
associated with some digestive .disturbance, whether this is the cause 



NEEVOUS CHILDREN. 89 

or the accompaniment; and the successful treatment of thij con- 
dition will often be followed by amelioration in or a disappearance 
of the nervous manifestations. This was true in a number of the 
cases I have detailed. Other possible causes for the disturbance of 
the nervous system must be carefully sought for, prominent among 
these being the constant association with other nervous members of 
the household. It is here that the mingling with healthy children as 
playmates, after infancy is passed, is especially to be insisted upon. 
There are cases, however, where shyness, timidity, or morbidness 
render the teasing of other children harmful, and the patient must 
then be entertained m other ways. This is a matter to be determined 
for the individual case. Complete change of scene and climate, 
with separation from the family, under the care of a specially trained 
nurse, and under medical supervision, will often work wonders in 
nervous children; and in severer cases, as in psychasthenia and 
hysteria, this is often one of the best means of cure. In many such 
cases among the poorer classes the placing of a child in a hospital is 
frequently the best possible procedure, as some of my cases illustrate. 

One of the things most harmful for nervous children is the evident 
and openly shown anxiety of parents. There can scarcely be any 
more deleterious suggestive influence for evil than the so common 
practice of mothers of detailing to the physician or to friends all of 
the child's peculiarities in the presence of the child itself. I have 
repeatedly !?ent such children out of the room in order- that they 
should not hear the account given by the mother. Often the question 
of attendance at school arises. This, too, is an individual matter. 
Over against the mental and bodily fatigue of school life is to be 
placed the fact that absence from school may draw still more the 
attention of the child to its condition, at the same time that it takes 
away occupation, inasmuch as there are often no play companions 
to be had during school hours. 

I may reiterate the chief principles which constitute the basis of all 
treatment, especially for the severer cases, such as the psychasthenic 
and hysterical states . While the general health is being improved and 
all visible causes removed, the direct object of all other measures is to 
make the child forget. This is slow of action, but satisfactory in 
result. Absolutely no anxiety of any sort must be sho\\Ti by the 
parents or others with regard to any of the hysterical or other manifesta- 
tions, or remarks of any sort made regarding them. Seeing the parents 
indifferent the child soon learns that the condition is a harmless one. 
It learns, too, that it can no longer enjoy the pleasures of sympathy or 
be the occupant of the center of the stage. Separation from anxious 
l^'arents is almost a necessity in such cases, since the majority of 
parents can not sufficiently control the exhibition of their feelings. 
The nurse in charge must always be kmd, and must obtain the 



90 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDBEN. 

affection and full confidence of the child; but there must always be 
firmness and an apparent indifference to the symptoms. This applies 
equally well to the physician. The symptoms, if noticed at all, are 
to be made light of, as something which is sure to pass away soon, and 
encouragement of every sort must be given. Suggestive treatment 
may be employed in the form of insisting that the patient is better. 
In fact, suggestion in some form is of the greatest value, by the 
employment of mechanical or other devices which seem strange or 
wonderful to the patient; combining this with the assurance that 
recovery will surely follow. Usually it is better not to express the 
belief that the malady will quickly disappear, but only little by little. 
It is also important that any treatment employed be directed against 
some other region of the body than that showmg symptoms, otherwise 
the mind of the child will continue to be directed to these. 

Punishment does no good in most cases of this kind, and only 
destroys the confidence and affection of the child, which is so neces- 
sary in order to obtain good results. 

I have said nothing regarding the administration of drugs for any 
of the nervous diseases described. They occupy but a very minor 
position and are to be employed only to relieve certain urgent symp- 
toms. This does not apply to the remedies needed to improve the 
geneal health in any particular. 

It is always to be remembered that in all of these diseases there 
is the underlying nervous disposition which can not be entirely 
removed. Consequently, when apparent recovery has taken place, 
care must still be observed that no causes are allowed to operate 
which can be the occasion for a return of the nervous manifestations. 
Nevertheless, it is encouraging to observe that with care many nervous 
children seem to outgrow the neurotic tendency entirely. 



SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE CONDITIONS AND TREATMENT OF 

STUTTERING. 

Const A.NCE Ckxrnley, former! !/ Assistant in the Voice Clinic, Out-Patient Department of tJie PsychopatMc 

Hospital, Boston, Mass. 

(Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Dec. 4, 1913:) 

One of the most baffling features of [stuttering] cases is that no two 
are similar; for this reason a successful method of treatment must be 
adapted to the individual, and this perhaps explains some of the 
failures of those systems where patients are treated in groups, without 
reference to their special needs, or where the same treatment is applied 
to every case, whether it fits the needs or not. ' v; ' 

Undoubtedly where some degree of impediment has been present 
since first learning to talk the cause lies in some cerebral predis- 
position, yet also in cases where the commencement of the trouble 



STUTTERING. 91 

can be assigned to a definite later date and is associated with some 
siich event as a fright, illness, or fall, the primary cause still must 
be sought in a mental or nervous condition, perhaps latent until 
then, or perhaps brought about then for the first time. In other 
words, the character of the impediment as it becomes recognizable 
to the hstener, whether it be a contortion, a repetition of sounds, pro- 
longed silence, or whatever it may be, is the effect and not the cause 
of the trouble. Yet, as will be shown later, excellent curative results 
may sometimes be obtained from directing the attention to exercisers 
for the relief of the physiological bad effect. 

However, though the underlying cause be cerebral, the longer the 
patient, in order to speak, goes through struggles without knowledge 
of the normal muscular and respiratory processes involved in articu- 
lation, the more his bad physiological habits become involuntary 
and. reflex. If his impediment takes the form of noticeable and 
more or less violent contortion, as of the jaw, lips, eyes, tongue, 
head, etc., the longer it goes on the more this in itself reacts on his 
mental and nervous condition. Therefore, what may have originally 
been a mere tendency to wrong cerebral direction of the articulatory 
process, or a slight upset of the efl^erent impulses, becomes a fixed 
improper habit, correspondingly difficult to overcome, and spreading 
until its effects attack the will and even the personahty itself. 

On the basis of this explanation it will be seen that no method of 
treatment can be considered weU balanced which does not include 
both the psychic and the physiological. But these overlap and 
frequently some exercise obviously in one sphere wiU have effects 
in the other. For example, if a person's confidence in himself can 
be increased by suggestion, he will without doing muscular exercises 
for the purpose probably stand straighter, breathe deeper, and be 
on the whole better fitted physically to articulate correctly than if 
he is embarrassed, despondent, sullen, or self-deprecatory. In the 
same way, if as a result of doing some purely muscular or tonal exer- 
cise, a person is enabled to speak easily where previously he had 
difficulty, his spirits will rise, his confidence increase, and the desirable 
psychic efiects be obtained without a direct word on the subject. 

A satisfactory method of treatment must take into consideration 
the compUcated nature of the speech process: It is dependent on 
quantity and placing of breath, muscular processes of the trunk 
durmg the emission of breath, muscular processes in the throat and 
larynx governing the quaUty, pitch, and volume of tone, and finally 
on the muscular processes governing the position of the articulatory 
organs above the larynx, the pharynx, palate, tongue, lips, and jaw. 

It is easily seen that in a process so involved there is infinite 
opportunity for the formation of improper habits; the lack of right 
use of one set of muscles immediately throws undue strain on some 



92 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

other set, which then overwork m the effort to accomplish some part 
of sound production they were never intended to perform. 

On the physiological side, then, treatment must recognize these 
elements: The teaching of correct breathing, the correction of habits, 
of muscular over-rigidity in any of the sets of muscles concerned, a 
thorough study of phonetics, and the cultivation of proper laryngeal 
action to secure flexibility and flow of tone. Probably every intelli- 
gent and honest method devises similar exercises based on these four 
elements of voice production. 

It is sometimes enough to call the attention of the patient to the 
necessity for inhalation before speaking. Frequently the effect of 
his nervousness is to make an inhalation impossible because of throat, 
chest, and intercostal rigidity; with other patients the instruction 
to inhale results in filling only the upper part of the lungs and in 
consequent contraction of the shoulder and neck muscles, but none 
at all of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, which are the impor- 
tant ones for breath control both in inhalation and exhalation. 
Therefore, some attention to the placing of breath and the quantity 
taken is essential if the patient's difficulty chances to depend even 
partially upon lack of breath or incorrect breathing, which is often, 
but not always, the case. Most patients when they are told to take 
a breath close the mouth and inhale through the nose." This necessi- 
tates a change of position of the soft palate and back of tongue before 
speaking can begin; therefore, the tendency after such inhalation is 
to make a nasal exhalation, and this is a fatal hindrance to speech, 
which requires exhalation through the mouth. Of course it must 
be pointed out to the patient that ordinary, quiet respiration should 
be nasal — mouth breathing used only for speaking. 

Experimentation with voice production in singing has convinced 
me that the teaching of bodily expansion with contraction of the 
diaphragm during inhalation and the consequent filluig of the lower 
lungs vvdth air constitutes the best breathing method for support and 
control of tone. The application of this is as important in the removal 
of speech defects as in the cultivation of a singing voice. It is easy 
to teach, and it relieves rigidity of upper muscles which should not 
be used at all, in the slight inhalation and exhalation needed for ordi- 
nary speaking; repeatedly patients who complain of feeUng a tightness 
or hardness in the chest or lower, during the eft'ort to speak, sometimes 
amounting to actual pain, have entirely lost these accompaniments 
of their difficulty after mastering the habit of diaphragmatic breath- 
ing. Exercises for this purpose, together with specific relaxmg 
exercises, usually are of great benefit, but are not needed in all-cases. 

Nearly always the tone of the stutterer's voice is very poor, being 
either noticeably weak or of a low pitch expressive of depression, or 
very monotonous. This means that the action of the vocal cords 



STUTTERING. 93' 

is not as it shoiikl be. Frequently they get no chance to act normally 
because of the too great effort made with the extrinsic muscles of 
the larynx, or because of some contortion habit by which an effort 
is made to substitute the use of the voluntary muscles of the jaw or 
tongue for the involuntary ones of the larynx. As a remedy for 
this, exercises in the relaxation of the throat, jaw, and tongue are 
oxtremel}^ helpful. In the attempt to develop flexibility I find the 
musical ear of the patient is of great importance; stuttering is fre- 
quently associated with a remarkable degree of tone deafness. In 
such cases directing the attention to change of pitch does no good. 

There remains the teaching of correct position for different sounds. 
Tliis is extremely important in many cases, of no assistance in some 
where the sounds are always made correctly if at all, and the cause 
of trouble is elsewhere; but this sort of training alone rarely accom- 
plishes a cure in mature cases. It is, however, of the greatest value 
with young children. Since the study of phonetics has made such 
work familiar, there is no necessity of dwelling on it in further detail 
here. 

The recultivation of the ear is of the greatest importance, not only 
in making a cure of stuttering, but in insuring the permanence of 
cure. The average stutterer does not hear his own voice as it is- 
He must be trained to listen to the normal speaking voice of others 
and contrast it with liis own, to apprehend what the easy flow of 
one word to another means in sound as well as in breadth and muscle 
sensation. It is extremely helpful in assisting easy ''beginning," so 
often the greatest stumbling block to a stutterer, to develop in him 
the power to make an absolutely clear mental concept of an easily 
and correctly produced vowel sound. To be effective this mind 
picture must be accompanied by muscular sensation in the throat, 
wliich he practices until perfect familiarity is assured and the ability 
to call up that sensation at any time results. For example, a stut- 
terer will be perfectly able to say any vowel easily and correctly, but 
the moment a consonant is placed before the vowel, there is a change 
in the pharyngeal action and the vowel perhaps can not be spoken 
at all or comes out after a time spasmodically with no ease or right 
quality of tone. The patient must first be taught the chstinction 
between vowel or pure tone, depending on the action of the vocal 
cords primarily, and the articulatory processes which give conso- 
nants and break up the pure tone into words. Tliis done, a beneficial 
exercise is to have him speak a vowel' aloud, directing his attention 
to the throat sensation, possibly even placing his fingers on his 
throat to feel not only the vibration but the muscular movement 
accompanying the sound. Then he speaks aloud a word containing 
tliis vowel. For example, "a, bake." He then ihinhs the vowel, 
still directing attention to the muscular throat action, but stopping 



94 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN", 

short of audible sound, and only calling up the sounds mentally with 
all possible vividness. He then again speaks the complete word 
aloud. 

General training and the study of language structure, too, is 
helpful at times. Some stutterei-s fail to realize how they break up 
language, chopping and chipping their speech until only two or three 
words are jerked out at a time. This is, of course, due to incorrect 
muscular action rather than to incorrect thought, but by analysis of 
their sentences as they speak them, they can be made to see how 
certain words in a group belong together, and how there are natural 
and legitimate places to pause, as well as unnatural and illegitimate. 
This new focus of attention on grammatical or rhetorical structure 
relieves the fear of isolated words and brings the patient to expecting 
more of himself. 

There remains the purely psychic side of the treatment. Inculca- 
tion of right habits of thought, the doing away of mental hesitation, 
both with regard to thought itself, and the choice of words for its 
expression, the training of the attention and the will, the establishing 
of a better attitude on the part of the individual toward himself, 
others, and his evironment. It is obvious that in this sphere par- 
ticularly much depends upon the natural endowment of the patient. 
It is also essential not to try to work with more than one idea at a 
time. Multiplicit}" of exercise is dangerous. One may advise a 
number of exercises as a home practice, and durmg the treatments 
one may try by suggestion to bring about several desirable mental 
changes, but in outlining a mental attitude for the patient to assume 
when the necessity for speaking arises, it is well to select one idea 
and insist that the whole mind be given to that; it is a good plan to 
vary the idea from time to time, depending on the extent to which 
it seems to have become habitual, and the amount of benefit derived 
in its being persisted in. 

The gaining of the confidence of the patient is also very necessary, 
as is the awakening of confidence in himself. For certainty and 
permanence of cure, it is essential that the patient should thorouglily 
undex'stand the object of all exercises given, see why they have 
beneficial results, and reach the conviction that the matter is in his 
own hands if he is sufficiently faithful and determined. 

It is obvious that in work requiring the formation of new habits 
the oftener treatment is given, especially at first, and the longer each 
treatment is, up to the point Where fatigue makes concentration and 
attention impossible, the better are the results obtained, and the 
quicker. The importance of the psychic side of treatment for" a dis-.,, 
order primarily psychic is evident. It is quite possible to make 
actual and permanent cures in five weeks, even of cases which appear 
extreme; it is also quite possible that work will have to be kept up 



STUTTERING. 95 

for months, perhaps for years, before there is sufhcient improvement 
to call it a cure. Cases are very Hkely to improve rapidly at first 
and then either go backward or remain stationary for some time. 
It is then that the most care is needed to maintain confidence and 
choose the most helpful exercises. 

The question of what to say to a patient regarding the time the 
cure will take is a dehcate one. If one states at the outset that the 
time wiU be indefinitely long, there is great discouragement and per- 
haps insufficient determinatioji even to give the treatment a trial. 
Therefore the maximmn amount of confidence to aid in commencing 
the work is not secured. On the other hand, the bad effects of 
unfulfilled promises are deplorable. If a cure is promised in a rash 
moment and not brought- about in the specified length of time, the 
patient will relapse, so that his "last state is worse than his first." 

But as the common experience among honest experiments in tliis 
field is that more than 50 per cent of cases are curable and nearly 50 
per cent more capable of much improvement, one can, by taking 
pams, reach a conclusion as to how best to present the requirements 
of treatment to a stutterer, so as to do what is half the battle from 
start to finish, namely, establish and retain his confidence in the 
method, in the teacher, and in himself. 



A STUDY OF 1,000 CASES OF STAMMERING, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE 
TO THE ETIOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF THE AFFECTION. 

G. Hudson Makuen, M. D. 
( The Therapeutic Gazette, June, 1914.) 

The age of the patients at the time of consultation was from 2^ to 
53 years, the average being about 15. 

The affection usually begins during the first few years of the develop- 
mental speech period, or to be more precise, it begins during the period 
of transition between the child's more or less meaningless jumble of 
words and his attempts to make accurate use of them as a means 
for the expression of thought and feehng. This period is that which 
comes between the ages of 2 and 4 or 5, the exact time depending 
upon the state of the child's psychophysical development. It is 
rare for the affection to begin after puberty, for by that time the 
speech habits have become more or less fixed; but we have one patient 
who had no difficulty up to his 23d year, when the stammering began 
to manifest itself. 

Of the 1,050 cases of stammering, 77 per cent were males and 23 
per cent were females. This shows a greater proportion of females 
than statistics usually give. In my report of 200 cases, pubHshed 
in 1897, only 5 per cent were females. The high percentage here 
given may be due to the fact that chnic cases come largely from the 



96 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

working classes, and girls have more leisure and greater opportunities 
for taking up the task of seeking relief. However that may be, the 
affection is undoubtedly less prevalent in females than in males, 
and the reasons given for the difference have been many and varied, 
the chief one, I think, being the greater natural aptitude of females 
for all work requiring the finer coordination of muscles. 

That stammering usually occurs in those exhibiting a somewhat 
characteristic temperament must be apparent to all who have made 
a careful study of the aftection. Whether or not the temperamental 
pecuharities, however, are the cause or the result of the affection 
is another and more difficult question. As a rule, stammerers are 
emotional, sensitive, hesitating, evasive, and oftentimes cowardly. 

Eighty-five per cent of the cases were of average mentahty, and 
we have had few, if any, who might be regarded as being above the 
average; about 14 per cent were a little below the average mentality, 
and only about 1 per cent were far below the average. Thus it 
appears that stammering is of rare occurrence among those of feeble 
mind, a certain degree of intellectuahty being necessary for the full 
development of the affection. 

The fact that about four-fifths of all stammerers are of average 
mentahty and that only about one-fifth are below the average is 
worthy of note, and I would explain it on the theory that those who 
are mentally alert are under greater phonatory and articulatory 
stress. In other words, they have more to say and they feel more 
the importance of saying it than those in the lower grades of men- 
tality. 

The general health of stammerers is usually somewhat below par. 
Faulty breathing and spasmodic attempts at phonation and articula- 
tion combine to interfere with normal physical development. The 
acute infectious diseases, such as whooping cough, measles, scarlet 
fever, diphtheria, and smallpox, are all important etiological factors 
in the affection. Moreover, stammerers are generally nervous and 
excitable, and they exhibit marked neurotic tendencies. 

Thirty-nine per cent of my patients admitted having or having had 
relatives who stammered, and this percentage is probably too low, 
because there is always a tendency to conceal the facts in matters 
of this sort, and because stammering probably existed in some of 
the famifies without the knowledge of the patients. 

Stammering is an affection that develops with the development of 
the speech of the individual, and it develops chiefiy in those children 
who have inherited, or it may be acquired, the physical anomahes 
which make the development of the affection possible or even prob- 
able. These anomalous cerebral conditions wliich give rise to stam- 
mering may be transmitted from parents who themselves may not 
have stammered, but who possessed all the cortical conditions which 



STUTTERING. 97 

usually result in the affection and only escaped it through more favor- 
able eiivironmental surroundings. 

Association and imitation, however, must be reckoned with in 
studying the etiology of stammering, and especially since they help 
to determine the character of the affection and thus suggest certain 
variations in the treatment indicated in individual cases. Thirty- 
two per cent of my patients confessed to have associated with others 
similarly aflQicted, but in the majority of instances this association 
was with, others in the family who, together with the patients, may 
have inherited the conditions which made the affection possible, 
or who were themselves blood relatives from whom they may be 
said to have inherited the affection. 

Inasmuch as over 28 per cent of my patients date the origin of 
the affection from the instant of having received a nervous shock, 
I think that we must give this a conspicuous place in the list of the 
causal factors of stammering. There is probably no human faculty 
that is so much influenced by nervous or emotional conditions as the 
faculty of speech. 

Although no very careful studies of the ocular conditions were 
made, we found 26 'pev cent had faulty vision, omng cliiefly to a 
defective action of the muscles. 

Only about 3 per cent had subnormal hearing, and this seemed to 
be purely accidental and in no respect related to the affection. 

No less than 97 per cent of my stammerers complained of some 
nose or throat trouble, and so great was it in 36.8 per cent of them 
that operations were performed for their relief. 

TREATMENT. 

From v»'hat has been said you will readily understand that the treat- 
ment of stammering is more psychological than physiological, and 
yet the psychical causes of stammering can only be reached and re- 
moved through the physical activities of the individual. The only 
way that one can learn to do tilings is by doing them, and the only 
way that a child can learn to talk freely and unhesitatingly is by 
talking freely and unhesitatingly, and when he can not do this, as 
is always the case with the untaught stammerer, he must be shown 
how to do it. This is the work of the teacher, but in order that the 
teacher may be able to do it successfully, he must himself be skilled, 
not only in the art of speech, but also in the art of teaching speech 
culture. The successful treatment of stammering aims not to correct 
a defect of speech, but to estabhsh good speech ; not to graft something 
upon an old trunk, but to plant a new tree, and to encourage its 
growth. In other words, the treatment of stammering has for its 
purpose primarily the reeducation of the cerebral speech mechanism, 

74418°— 15 7 



98 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

and this reeducation must be brought about largely through the 
accurate physiological use of the peripheral mechanisms of speech. 
The physical exercises must be selected and adapted to meet the 
needs of each individual patient, and they must be practiced by the 
patient, not aimlessly, but with close attention and with what some 
one has called ''purposeful intent.'' The chief purpose of the prac- 
tice should be the estabhshment of normal mental imagery, for upon 
the accuracy of the mental imagery depends the accuracy of speech. 
Just as one may by practice strengthen and develop his visual 
imagery and thus increase his powers of observation, so may the 
stammerer develop and strengthen his auditory imagery, and thus 
overcome his difficulties of speech. 

The stammerer must learn to idealize speech just as the singer 
learns to idealize song. ''As a man thinketh, so is he," is a phrase 
that suggests the condition of the stammerer. If he thinks stam- 
mering speech he v/ill necessarily use stammering speech. His con- 
dition is like that of a novice on a bicycle who sees a stone ahead. 
If he sees it clearly enough and to the exclusion of other things, he 
wiU surely hit it. On account of his past experiences the stammerer 
sees nothing but trouble ahead, and the fear of this trouble amounts 
in some instances to a veritable obsession, paralyzing all normal effort. 
Accurate mental imagery under such conditions is a j)ractical impos- 
sibihty, and we must help the patient to remove the mental confu- 
sion arising from his fear of trouble before any satisfactory progress 
can be made. When the stammerer has acquired an adequate 
knowledge of the nature of his difficulties, he is then in a position 
to learn how to redintegrate and strengthen the mental imagery 
upon which good speech depends. 



PSYCHOGENIC EPIDEMICS IN SCHOOLS.^ 

August Strauch, M. D., Chicago, HI. 
{Medical Record, Jan. 17, 1914.) 

Psychogenic institution epidemics appear at the present time, 
rather than the great psychic epidemics of the Middle Ages, which 
were principally of rehgious origin. The number of these imitation 
epidemics in educational or other institutions, especially in girls' 
boarding schools, hospitals, and prisons, is perhaps greater than is 
generally believed, since it is to the interest of these institutions to 
prevent such occurrences from becoming generally known. 

The cases in the hospital at Haarlem are much quoted, where an 
epileptic by his seizures through imitation transmitted his convul- 
sions to aU the other patients. Van Swieten observed spasms, from 

1 General title of article (with bibliogi-aphy): " Disorders in Children bj' Imitation and Induction." 



PSYCHOGENIC EPIDEMICS. 99 

which small children suffered, mimicked by all those who were un- 
fortunate enough to be witnesses. Palmer, in 1892, observed in a 
girls' school in Biberach (Germany) about 13 children from 11 to 13 
years of age who all manifested sleephke conditions. Rembold, in 
1893, reported a psychic epidemic in a girls' school at Stuttgart. 
After a girl had fainted, 25 cases of nervous disturbances occurred; 
15 girls were affected with tremor and screaming; 10 with uncon- 
sciousness and sleeplike states. Hirt^ in 1893, reported that 20 girls 
among 48 between 5 and 12 years of age were taken ill with hysterical 
spasms and disturbances of the sensorium, near Lignitz, in Germany, 
in the village school of Gross Tinz. Szegoe observed at Budapest in 
1895 a singular cough prevalent in a girls' institution (chorea laryn- 
gis). Bokay witnessed a very unique and spectacular psychic epi- 
demic in a girls' school near Budapest. Fifteen girls between 9 and 
15 years of age who were affected imitated the cries of various animals 
by peculiar expiratory sounds. A pupil, who had previously suffered 
from catarrhal cough, suddenly had an expiration that resembled 
the sneezing of a horse. Soon after two other pupils produced also 
pecuHar expirations, which, however, sounded more hke barking. 
Still other girls reproduced the hissing of geese, the shrieking of par- 
rots, the neighing of horses; the majority, however, imitated the 
barking of dogs. Whenever one girl started, the rest apparently had 
to join in, thereby creating a confusion of noises as if "from the 
animals of a menagerie." Bokay excluded intentional imitation. 
Von Holwede described an epidemic of light attacks of spasms with 
sleephke states in a high school in Braunschweig. 

Singultus is not infrequently marked by its epidemic spread. In 
1897, when I was still in Viemia as a medical student, there occurred 
an epidemic of hysterical singultus in a class of a girls' school in the 
second district, in which 28 girls among 35 were victims, so that the 
class had to be closed. Dr. Bercach, who has reported this imitation 
epidemic, in addition to this made a similar observation in another 
school, in which 20 girls among 30 were affected. Schuette describes 
the occurrence of ''trembling disease" in a girls' school at Meissen. 

Unique and very interesting were the observations made by 
Schoedel of a pecuhar disturbance of handwriting that spread among 
the children of a class in a public school in Chemnitz, 21 of the 35 
pupils being affected. During the fii-st days of the disturbance the 
children, girls and boys, would write well at the beginning of their 
lessons, but gradually in the course of an hour the handwriting be- 
came more and more tremulous. During the following days the 
characters and figures were tremulous even at the beginning of the 
lesson and became finally very grotesque and unreadable. This 
pecuhar ataxia of the hand and arm m^ovements appeared only in 
writing, not in other kinds of work. There were no signs of ner- 



100 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

vousnesS; exhaust ioii; or excitement present. Shortly before the 
outbreak of this epidemic the daily newspaper pubhshed repeatedly 
articles about a school epidemic of trembling disease in Meissen, 
where 134 children, mostly girls, v/ere unable to hold any light object, 
such as a penholder, during the attack. It was proved that the first 
patient in Chemnitz had heard of this epidemic. In the opinion of 
Schoedel, this example and the suggestion of the teacher in expressing 
to his pupils the hope that they might be spared the trembhng disease 
of Meissen served actually as the provoking agent of the epidemic in 
Chemnitz. In this case the children imitated the pecuhar disturb- 
ance of the writing of their near neighbors. Schoedel is averse to 
classifying this or similar psychic epidemics among the manifestations 
of hysteria, as some authors do, because it dealt mostly with well 
nourished, healthy, not neuropathic children, of average education 
and healthy parentage and for other very plausible reasons. He 
applies to these phenomena the unprejudiced term '' induction or 
imitation diseases." Certainly such conclusions must be approved 
for a great number of psychic epidemics, though in others hysteria, as 
the underlying factor, is too conspicuous to be denied. 

It is the physiological underdevelopment of the cluld's psychic organ with ita 
gi'eat tendency to imitate and the impressionability of mind and the vivid imagination 
that render such epidemics possible. A real disease is not necessarily a factor, as 
idiosyncrasies and aberrations m.ay be imitated. Girls are possessed of these childish 
characteristics in a more pronounced degree than boys and enjoy more leniency, and 
this factor is apt to aggravate such evils. 

When children, in aping instinctively the bad habits of adults, 
suddenly exhibit the morbid manifestations seen in others, we must 
not always necessarily presume an abnormally increased imitative 
tendency, a morbid impressionabihty; in such cases the miheu may 
be sufficiently influential to affect the child. Finally, we must re- 
member that a certain theatrical talent exists in the normal child, 
which becomes evident in their play; undoubtedly this may aid at 
least in inducing the children to copy and ape others, including ab- 
normal persons, especially if their desire is directed toward "playing 
a r61e." The more conspicuous the feature of the example, the more 
will the instinct of mimicry in the child be aroused. 

I shall only cursorily point to the occurrence of enuresis nocturna 
in previously healthy children as due to psychic contagion by uncon- 
scious imitation of classmates and friends who are afflicted with this 
disturbance. Also the so-caUed school headaches, which as a rule 
are of neurasthenic nature, seem to be due to hysterical imitation 
and suggestion in a number of cases. Thiemich, as school physician, 
relates the experience that in some classes one-third or more of the 
pupils, mostly girls, between 10 and 14 years of age, upon inquiry 
asserted that they suffered from headaches, while in other classes 



CHOEEA. 101 

with the same number of pupils of the same age only sporadic cases 
were present. A suggestive therapy with tinctura amara was gen 
erally followed by speedy and permanent cure, though the neuras- 
thenic forms remained uninfluenced. Thus we see that these epi- 
demics present an endless variety of s3niiptoms, and we realize that 
the phenomena are too many to enumerate. One feature is common 
to all of them — psychic contagion in a limited circle of children who 
spend many hours together and are more or less embraced by the 
same bonds, as in schools or other institutions. 



INVESTIGATION OF 100 CASES OF CHOREA. 

Arthur Newlin, M. D., Philadelphia. 
(Pennsylvania Medical Journal, June, 1914.) 

The new cases applying to the dispensary of the Philadelphia 
Orthopedic Hospital and Infirmary for Nervous Diseases during the 
year of 1910 were selected and the services of a special social worker 
were obtained through the social-service department of the hospital. 
The year 1910 was chosen as being not so distant as to make it difficult 
to trace patients to their homes and yet distant enough to note the 
existence of recent recurrences. 

Of these 100 cases, 69 per cent were Americans, the other 31 cases 
being f auiy evenly distributed among Irish Americans, Russian Jews, 
English Americans, etc. The female sex predominated, 63 females and 
37 males being enrolled. The majority were between the ages of 5 
and 15 years, there being little difference in the distribution in two- 
year intervals between these ages. The average duration of the attacks 
was from one to six months, 34 out of 87 cases, wliere accurate records 
were obtainable, lasting from one to three months. The month of 
onset was interesting in that there was only a fair proportion begin- 
ning in the spring months; that is, 28 in March, April, and May; 
during the summer an equal number began, and in the last three 
months of the year there were also 28 cases beginning in that period. 
In only five instances was there evidence that shock or fright was the 
casual factor in the beginning of the attacks. As far as association 
witli diseases in the parents is concerned, it was noted that rheuma- 
tism headed the list, there being histories of that disease in 40 of the 
parents, in 21 evidence of functional nervous disorders, while 15 gave 
histories of tuberculosis. In 15 of the 100 families there was the 
existence of chorea in other members than the patient. In 13 
instances alcoholism was recorded in one or other of the parents. As 
far as the previous health of these patients was concerned, it was 
found that outside of measles, chicken pox, and whooping cough, 
tonsillar troubles were the most frequent disorders recorded. There 



102 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

were 62 ijistajices of tonsillar disease, of which tonsillitis comprised 
24, hypertrophied tonsils 20, and in 18 the tonsils had been removed. 
In 25 cases there was a definite history of rheumatism and in 12 
there were histories of joint affections that were ascribed to rheuma- 
tism and suggested that disease. In 39 instances ocular defects were 
noted; the majority of these had been ordered, but were not wearing, 
glasses. In only 6 instances was there history of heart disease. 

On investigating the environment of these cases it was found that 
the class of patients affected with chorea seemed to be rather above 
the average dispensary case as far as social status was concerned; 
there were very few instances of extreme poverty, 90 per cent being 
above the poverty line. The neighborhood v/as almost always 
fairly good, in many instances noisy, but sanitary and not congested. 
In the homes this also held true; 80 per cent v/ere in good condition, 
underdrained, orderly, and well ventilated. As far as the hygiene 
of sleeping apartments was concerned it was found that there was 
but little overcrowding; 27 had rooms to themselves; in 58 instances 
there were two in a room, and in only 10 cases tliree in one room. 
Tlie ventilation was bad in 18 per cent; the hours of sleep were too 
short in 43 per cent. The investigation of the question of feeding 
showed that in 15 per cent there was gross, general deficiency, and in 
61 per cent there was overindulgence in tea, coffee, and sweets, 
this in spite of the fact that these patients had been instructed in the 
evils of this kind of diet. In the matter of amusements there was 
evidence of gross neglect of instruction, 50 per cent of the children 
were allowed to go out at night, either playing in the streets, or, as 
in 48 out of the 50, they were permitted to go to cheap evening 
vaudeville shows or to moving pictures. In only 15 instances was 
there actual evidence of the home discipline being an important 
factor in the continuance of the choreic attacks. The investigation 
of the schools attended by these patients showed a satisfactory state 
as far as could be judged. In only one instance could an attack of 
chorea be traced to overcrowding in the schoolroom, and the standing 
and conduct of the patients were almost uniformly reported as 
good, although in many instances there was considerable loss of time 
from school on account of the disease. The same can be said of the 
places of employment of the patients who had left school to earn 
their own living. 

Of the 100 cases, 52 had more than one attack. In 30 cases there 
w^as one recurrence; in 15, two; in 4, three; in 2 cases, four; and one 
patient had six separate attacks. The intervals between the recur- 
rences were as a rule from one to two years; in 15 instances one, 
and in 21 two years elapsed between the primary attack and the first 
recurrence. In 10 cases one year elapsed between the first and 
second recurrence, and in 7 cases two years elapsed between the 



FEEBLE-MINDEDNESS. 103 

second and thii-d attacks. Although there were seven primary attacks 
beginning in January, there was no recurrence amongst any of these 
cases. The spring months being slightly the favorite time for re- 
currences, 26 secondary attacks occurred in that time, 20 occurred 
during the summer, and 15 during the last three months of the year, 
September and February being unfavorable months both for the 
occurrence of primary attacks and recurrences. The duration of 
the recurrences corresponded in the main with that of the original 
attacks; of the 82 recurrences 50 lasted from one to four months. 
In 22 instances the parts affected in the recurrences were similar to 
those involved in the primary attacks, in 13 there was a complete 
dissimilarity, and in the remaining 17 there was partial involvemxent 
of the members originally affected. In analyzing the home condi- 
tions affecting these patients who suffered with more than one attack 
of chorea, it was found that there was simply an exaggeration of the 
bad factors found in the case of the primary affection. In 31 out of 
the 52 cases the children were improperly fed and in these the over- 
indulgence of tea, coffee, and sweets was marked. In the matter of 
diversions, the '^movies" here played a more pronounced role than 
ever. In 38 instances out of the 52 cases the patients not only 
attended these amusements, but almost always at night and in the 
majority of instances several times a week. 

In review it seems that the most important aid that the social 
worker can provide is in the matter of diet and securing the proper 
amount of physical and mental rest for the patient. Material help 
can also be given by obtaining information as to the family history, 
and previous history of the patient, and in discovering such predispos- 
ing factois as unwise discipline, overcrowding, bad ventilation or 
some unexpected evil influence that would not be brought to light 
except by a visit to the home of the patient. The proper coiTectioa 
of ocular defects is a very important factor in the health of choreics ; 
and the difficulties that are encountered in making these j^atients 
get suitable lenses and persist in wearing them when prescribed, can 
usually be overcome through the aid of the social service. 



FEEBLE-MINDEDNESS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

E. BoswoRTH McCeeady, M. D., Associate Neurologist, Soulhside Hospital, Pittsburgh, Fa. 
( Medical Record, Aug. 23, 1913.) 

The period between the ages of 6 and 14 is the most important in 
the life of the feeble-minded child. It is during this period that he 
is able to make the best use of the special trainmg which he requires. 
For this reason early recognition of his condition is necessary. Feeble- 
mindedness is often not suspected until the child by his inability to 



104 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

advance in. school gives evidence of his condition. Parents very often 
either can not or will not see that their child is any different from 
other children. Sometmies they fail to brmg to the attention of the 
family physician the apparent abnormahties of the child, but the 
family physician himself is very often at fault in this matter as he is 
very hkely to lightly dismiss the subject with the remark that the 
child will outgrov/ his difficulty or that there will be a change at 3 
years or at 7 or at 14. In this way valuable time is lost which might 
be put to good advantage. The fact that the child has arrived at 
any certam chronological period in his' existence has no more bearing 
than does the condition of national politics. This superstition has 
not only been responsible for a vast amount of neglect of the feeble- 
minded, but has been the cause of early neglect of remediable defects, 
which had they been corrected at the proper tune would have saved, 
in m.any cases, lives .of suffering and inefficiency. It therefore 
devolves upon those who come into contact with the child in his 
early school days to recognize the importance of the situation and 
to take steps to remedy it. 

The question of the responsibility of the pubHc school to the feeble- 
minded child should be considered in relation (1) to the child him- 
self, (2) to his feUow pupils, (3) to society in general. 

In the ordinary classroom the feeble-minded child gams but little 
of value. It is true that some, in whom memory is well developed, 
wiU advance, but they gain practically nothing except the ability to 
repeat, paiTot-fashion, dates, rules, and formulae, understandmg but 
little of their real mxcaning. Lacking primarily in the power of atten- 
tion and unable to concentrate but for a short length of tmie, the 
long school periods become irksome and the children soon become 
fatigued and restless. The feeble-minded child is suggestible to a 
marked degree. He consequently learns easily evil habits which in 
his more normally poised schoolmate are httle more than incidental 
l^hases of development without permanent damage, but ui him tend 
to aggravation of his condition. ITe also is liable to become the 
scapegoat for the escapades of his companions and be led even into 
lawbreaking without any realization of the gravity of his offense. I 
have at the request of probation officers of the juvenile court exam- 
ined a large number of boys who have been arrested on charges of 
theft and other crimes who were entirely incapable not only of under- 
standing the gravity of then' offense but of originating the plans by 
which the crmie was carried out. In the majority of cases the real 
culprits escaped. The feeble-minded girl is doubly in danger. How 
great her danger is the records of any juvenile court or maternity 
hospital win show. It is unfortunate that these girls are very often 
attractive in appearance and manner, and, while their tendencies 
may not necessarily be immoral, their power of resistance is very 



FEEBLE-MINDEDNESS. 105 

slight indeed. It has been sliown that a large proportion of girls 
leading lives of prostitution arc feeble-minded. 

Malnutrition and a lack of bodily tone, with lessened resistance 
to disease, is practically the rule in the mentally deficient. It has been 
noticed that \vhenever there is an outbreak of any of the acute in- 
fectious diseases in a school that the feeble-mmded are alv/ays the 
first to succumb. On account of limited opportunities for contact 
Avith other children and unusual solicitude on the part of the parents, 
the feeble-minded child is often remarkably free from disease until he 
begins to attend school, when he contracts one iUiiess after another. 
The tendency to the development of tuberculosis is marked. In 
fact, this disease is the greatest cause of mortality. 

In the special or ungraded classes which are now a part of the school 
system in nearly all of our large cities, the feeble-minded child may, 
and usually does, progress up to a certain point. I am firmly of the 
opinion, however, that the feeble-minded child should be allowed 
to remain in the special class only a sufficient length of time for his 
condition to be accurately diagnosed, or until a place can be found 
for him in a suita]>le institution. 

Of what advantage, except to the normal children and the teachers 
of the normal children, has it been to attempt to educate the feeble- 
minded children m the special classes of the public school? They 
are no more fitted to j)articipate m the world's work than they were 
before; they are more dangerous to their fellows, less happy, their 
evil tendencies are greater, their powers of resistance less. They have 
lost valuable yeai-s during which they have added their quota of misery 
and debt, to increase as each year goes on, and to no purpose. 

The influence of the feeble-minded child upon the other children 
in the class is bad. One such case can upset the discipline and impede 
the progress of an entire class. iiU children are highly imitative, 
and from amusement at grimaces and gi'otesque actions they soon 
come to imitate them. The moral obliquities of the feeble-minded 
are also a source of contamination to the other children. To include 
the feeble-minded in special classes with those who are only backward 
is an injustice to the latter. The backward child is capable of more 
or less rapid advancement to normal under suitable conditions and 
when given the advantage of proper individual attention. It is im- 
possible for the teacher to give this attention when her time is taken 
up with the feeble-mmded. 

I have akeady alluded to the increased susceptibility to the acute 
infectious diseases and to tuberculosis. For this reason the feeble- 
minded child may become at any time a dangerous source of infec- 
tion. 

At a meeting of the American Academy of Medicine, held at Lehigh 
University, I offered the following suggestions: 



106 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEK". 

1. That the pubhc school is not the proper place for the educatioa 
of the feeble-mmded. 

2. Careful examination should be made by competent investiga- 
tors of all children when they first apply for admission to the public 
school. 

3. Those found to be feeble-minded should be excluded and segre- 
gated in institutions (or when practicable kept at home under super- 
visory control of the proper authorities). 

4. Doubtful cases and those backward in their development should, 
after the correction of physical defects, faulty environmental con- 
ditions, etc., be admitted to special classes where they will receive 
the training suited to their individual needs, and be under the obser- 
vation of physicians especially tramed in this sort of work. 

This plan by some was considered to look like the millennium, 
though very desirable if it could be brought about. While recogniz- 
ing the impossibility under the present condition of affairs of its being 
put into immediate execution, yet I do not see, when the general 
public, the school authorities, and the legislators have been brought 
to realize the importance of the problem of the feeble-minded, why 
some such plan would not be entirely feasible. In the meantime 
there is nothing, except the inertia of authorities, which need prevent 
an expert examination of each child when he enters school, with 
proper differentiation of the various types, and certamly, if it be 
necessary at the present time to continue the feeble-mmded in the 
public school, nothing to prevent their separation from the backward 
and from those with slight defects of hearing, vision, or speech. 
With the feeble-minded in classes by themselves, we will at least know 
the number with which we have to deal, and other measures would 
follow. 



A STUDY OF THE ETIOLOGY IN 175 EPILEPTIC CHILDREN. 

Arthur Willard Fairbanks, M. D. 
(Boston Medical and SurgicalJournal, Apr. 3, WI4.) 

Epilepsy can not be regarded as a disease in the sense in which 
the term should be strictly employed. The longer one studies the 
cases that come under his observation, the more he will find it impos- 
sible to give a concise and unqualified definition of any clinical 
entity, or in other words to a disease that as such may be termed 
''epilepsy," and the stronger will become his conviction that the 
state so designated is merely an instability of the central nervous 
organization, an inability of the nerve centers to maintain their 
equilibrium in the presence of either ordinary or extraordinary 
stimulation from without. The frequency, the persistency, and the 



ETIOLOar OF EPILEPSY. 107 

degree of this instability of the central nervous system furnish us 
with a convenient basis of classification, which is, however, merely 
a convenience. 

From this point of vievr all of the innumerable excitmg factors 
of the individual attacks, so often emphasized as of importance in 
the etiology of epilepsy, become immaterial in so far as the solution 
of the real cause of the unstable state of the individual is concerned. 
They are merely the immediately exciting factors that for the 
moment overthrow the poorly balanced nervous system. Over- 
emphasis of these exciting factors of izidividual epileptic or eclamptic 
attack serves rather to cloud than to clarify our understanding of 
the fundamental cause of the condition. Innumerable articles have 
appeared, and are constantly appearmg in medical literature, the 
sole purport of which is the attempt to prove this or that excitmg 
factor the real or fundamental causation of epilepsy. This ten- 
dency, persisting even at the present time, is to be deplored., for it 
only delays the recognition of the fact that every conceivable external 
stimulus may be sufficient to overthrow the static balance of the 
central nervous mechanism when its static balance is below the 
normal average of stability, and only then. What are the conditions 
that are responsible for this defective equilibrium? We must first 
consider the conditions that make the normal development of stabil- 
ity impossible. 

In the first place the parent cells may not be endowed with those 
inherent qualities that permit the ultimate attainment of relative 
stability in the developed organism. In such instances the msta- 
bility is mherited. It is of course impossible to assert the existence 
of this inherited instability unless there exists in the historj" of the 
ascendents of the individual positive evidence of similar instability. 

Second, gi^-en parent cells with normal inherent stable qualities, 
some influence may be brought to bear on the embryo in utero to 
impair the development of the central nervous system and conse- 
quently to prevent the evolution of stability * * *. It may be 
relative to the otherwise normal phj^sical development of the child 
or it may be but a part of a general defective physical development. 

Third, with the embryo normally developed, there still remains, 
as a possible factor in impairment of stability, the incidence of trauma 
and disease. The period of birth is the time in the life of every child 
when the brain is exposed to the greatest danger. After birth there 
exists throughout the years of childhood the incidence of trauma 
and disease as cause of cerebral injury. The permanent structural 
damage produced by diseases that directly affect the brain, as menin- 
gitis, encephalitis, and hydrocephalus, is a matter of common clinical 
observation, while it is by no means a rare clinical experience to 



108 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

observe the serious injury done to the central nervous structure by 
the infectious diseases, either directly by the action of their toxin 
or indirectly through vascular lesions. 

The study of these 175 cases confirms an opmion I have held for 
many years, as the result of the observation of many hundred 
epileptic children, that heredity is a minor factor in the etiology of 
epilepsy, whenever the disease is studied at such an age that the 
true details of the past and family history of the victim can be 
obtained. These data are obtainable in the case of children to an 
infinitely greater extent than when the disease is investigated only 
in adults. Both the data and physical examination of epileptic 
children indicate that the affection in the majority of instances is 
the result of acquired cerebral injury from trauma or disease. 



THE RELATION OF PHYSICAL DEFECT TO DELINQUENCY. 

n. D. Ne"WKIrk, M. D., Director and Surgeon to Research Department, Hennepin County Juvenile Court, 

Minneapolis. 

{Bulletin of the American Academy of Medicine, February, 1914-) 

From the physical standpoint I think we can safely say that loss or 
lack of nerve control is the underlying cause of delinquency. This 
loss or lack of nerve control can be further classified as due to (a) 
nerve irritation, (h) gross failure of development of the nervous system, 
(c) lack of development of the higher centers of the nervous system. 
All of these factors are accentuated during the period of puberty. 

Considering causes of nerve irritation there are certain defects 
which are well known to the medical profession, and in our work we 
have found them in the following order of importance : Phimosis and 
elongated, irritable foreskin, adenoids, diseased tonsils, mahiutrition, 
eyestrain, anemia, impacted teeth, chronic appendicitis, hernia, and 
worms. Of course every physical defect is a source of nervous 
irritation more or less, but we have found these to be the most 
important. 

The second factor in lack of control is failure of development of 
the nervous s^^stem. The group of children comprising this class is 
relatively small, but the delinquencies are usually of a more serious 
character. Here we find the cretin, Mongol, hydrocephalic, and 
microcephalic of the congenital group, and the acquired with arrested 
mental development as in the cerebral palsies, epilepsy, dementia, 
and syphilitic conditions. In this class, too, we should put those 
cases developing lack of control due to brain injuries. These children 
are unable to develop and carry out a well-laid plot and are just as 
apt to give away or lose the results of their trouble as not. Their 
delinquency is simpty the uncontrolled impulse of a childish brain. 



PHYSICAL DEFECTS AND DELINQUENCY. 109 

The third division, or lack of control due to lack of brain develop- 
ment, is of considerable importance. The former group has more 
especially to do with gross or macroscopic brain changes, while this 
class has reference to microscopic changes. I refer mainly to that 
group of children known to psychologists as Morons or border-line 
mentalities, a group varying according to different investigators, 
but one of large proportions and of great importance. These boys 
were formerly considered simply peculiar or erratic or just plain bad 
because they wanted to be so, and the rod, well applied, was consid- 
ered the scientific as well as practical solution of the repeated delin- 
quencies. 

I have come to conclude that these boys are very largely victims 
of cross heredity. Usually one parent is fairly normal and well- 
balanced mentally, while the other is not. It is generally conceded 
that idiocy and imbecility are very largely directly traceable to 
faulty heredity. It is also, I believe, just as true that the higher 
grades of feedle-mindedness, shading all the vv^ay from the normal 
to the imbecile, are very largel}^ products of a poor heredity. The 
main causes contributing to this poor heredity are alcoholism, con- 
tinued for a long period previous to the birth of the child, devitaliz- 
ing diseases, such as tuberculosis and syphilis, the nerve-racking 
strain of l3oth high society women with their bridge and late hours, 
and the mental struggles of the poor to make ends meet, and other 
prenatal influences of similar nature. 

During the different ages of childhood, delinquency has different 
phases and is influenced by different factors. The most powerful 
single factor is, no doubt, puberty or the period of adolescence. 
Why this is, exactly, we can not tell, but it is very certain that there 
is a marked change in the child at this time and especially the child 
vnth a weak mentality. The normal child has control sufficient to 
protect him against the mental delirium of a new experience and 
vision of life. He has sufficient mental ballast to carry him safely 
through the shoals till smoother waters are reached, but the child 
with the faulty heredity on the side of the nervous system is pre- 
disposed to loss of control at this most trying time, and once the 
fight is lost, it is doubly hard to follow the narrow path in the future. 
Fathers and mothers should be instructed in the care of their children 
at this time, for if a child crosses this period safely his parents need 
not worry over his future, for his habits will be formed and his actions 
under control by this time. . On the contrary, if a child breaks down 
at this time and happens to receive punishment which he thinks he 
does not deserve he is very apt to be a confirmed criminal from that 
time on. It is at this period that the sexual desire is increased, and 
the boy who is overdeveloped sexually will need extra care, together 



110 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDKEK. 

with a liberal amount of physical work to take care of his extra 
energy. Overstimulation at this time with excesses brings about 
nervous exhaustion, with resulting loss of control. At this important 
period, when the young man is just coming to maturity, we find an 
exaggerated idea of self. In short, he is going through a period of 
adjustment, and if his sense of balance is not quite normal he will 
fall into misfortune. Thus, while this period, the climax in the life 
of the youth, may deviate only slightly from the normal, this slight 
deviation may be the "last straw" action as a stimulant either to 
hasten the day when he shall graduate into the ranks of the full- 
fledged criminal or brace him for a straightforward, manly career. 

In summing up, let me state again that physical defect is without 
doubt secondary to environment as a direct cause of delinquency, 
and that mental defect or an unstable nervous system, due to bad 
heredity, is, in my opinion, of far more importance than the usual 
defects, such as of tonsils, adenoids, and vision. The boy with the 
well-balanced, finished nervous system will survive the misfortune 
of such defects as these, but to the undeveloped, unstable mind these 
defects, acting as a nerve irritation, tend to increase the strain on the 
already overtaxed, unfolded brain, and the outcome is only too fre- 
quently disastrous to the child. 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF CRIME FROM THE STANDPOINT OF THE 

PROBATION OFFICER. 

JouN W. Wnx'EU, Superintendent Chicago Bot/s' Club,formerlii Chief Probation Officer, Chicago. 

{Bulletin of the American Academy of Medicine, April, IOI4.) 

In an examination of all the children at one particular time in the 
Chicago Detention Home, 203 carious teeth were found in the 
mouths of 58 children, and but 4 of these children had ever visited a 
dentist. In 90 per cent the teeth were almost totally destroyed. 

An examination of 2,367 children showed that 65 per cent had 
decayed teeth, which were in need of dental care and treatment. 
We can easily imagine the suffering that would come from 203 
decayed teeth. There is little question as to the effects of bad 
teeth on health and nutrition, and it does not require a great stretch 
of the imagination to beheve that an aching tooth has many times 
been the first cause of irregularity in attendance at school, and 
everyone knows that irregular school attendance is one of the first 
steps to the juvenile court. 

The following four cases are typical of hundreds that have come 
to the attention of the probation department of the Chicago juvenile 
court : 



PHYSICAL DEFECTS AND DELINQUENCV. Ill 

One that is now before it is the case of a lad from one of the very 
best families, who has claimed the attention of the police on five or 
six different occasions — each time for stealing. The last time he 
stole an automobile. The first time he was brought in those closest 
to him did not beheve he was guilty. The minister of the church, 
an attorney who was the boy's Sunday-school teacher, and his 
employer, all came forward giving him the best of recommendation, 
and making special mention of the good traits of every member of 
his family. The boy fuially admitted the theft to the judge. The 
probation officer visited the boy, and was surprised, in a very few 
days, to fuid out that he had again been stealing. Incidentally, the 
parent made mention of a severe fall that the boy had had when 3 
years of age. An X-ray examination was made of the boy's skull, 
and it was found that a sphnt was pressing on certain portions of 
the bram. 

Another case — a boy about 12 years of age, who for years had been 
unmanageable at home and school, had done very httle at school, 
and had been kept practically all this time in one grade, was picked 
up a number of times for stealing, and was finally brought to court. 
It was learned that he was really a "stool pigeon " for other boys. An 
examination showed that the boy was a subject for the feeble-minded 
institute. 

The third case is that of a young girl who had an extremely bad 
temper. The probation officer was continually securing a position 
for her, which she kept for but a short time. The girl often com- 
plained about her eyes. Fmally she was taken to an oculist, who dis- 
covered a terrific eye strain. Slie was fitted with glasses, and the girl 
got along so well at her work and at home that the officer finally lost 
track of her. After more than a year the girl again came to see her 
about a job. It was the same old story, but it was learned that the 
girl had broken her glasses and had been doing without them. She 
again began wearing her glasses, and the former satisfactory experi- 
ence was duplicated. 

The fourth case is a lad who was regularly picked up by the pohce 
for stealing and for running away from home. This happened as 
many as a dozen tunes in six months. He vras finally brought into 
court and, upon examination by a physician, it was found that he 
had had a gi-eat deal of ilhiess, was exceedingly nervous and some- 
times hysterical. His nutrition and development were both very 
poor. It was recommended that he live an out-of-door life, and he 
was sent to the country. In a few months his condition was gi'eatly 
improved, he gained in weight and height, has given no further 
trouble, and advanced four grades in school the first year. 



112 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS A CRIME CONTRIBUTOR. 

Edward C. Eluott, Ph. D., Professor of Education, University of Wisconsin. 
{Bulletin of the American Academy of Medicine, December, 1913.) 

Up to the present moment the relation of education and crimi- 
nality has been narrowly interpreted, either in terms of intelligence as 
increased through instruction, or in terms of physical condition as 
improved through care and protection. To many of us engaged 
in the serious study of education as the greatest of the social con- 
structive professions, it appears that another item must be considered 
along with instruction and hygiene before the influence of the school 
will be positive in producing individuals possessing permanent 
Ijchaving tendencies of a noncriminal sort. Broadly speaking, this 
new item is adequate and proper material provision in the public 
school for responding to the normal demand for activity on the part 
of both children and adults. Until this is brought to pass the 
American school will be guilty a contributor toward delinquency. 
Our ethics and our medicine have been too individualistic. The 
moralist and the hygienist, to make a bold assertion, have regarded 
the individual, particularly the child in the school, as something that 
could be' made morally antiseptic as easily as he could be made 
physically antiseptic. Scanty isolated illustration must suffice. 

Just now the subject of physical morality occupies a large place in 
current thought. We are becoming more and more concerned with 
the possibility of making an effective program of public instruction, 
inside and outside of the school, in the matter of sex hygiene. Of 
what avail is such a program so long as the one place in the school- 
house where sex obtrudes itself represents too often conspicuous 
uncleanUness, sanitary incompetence, and evil suggestiveness. As 
long as the larger per cent of American schoolhouses have their pres- 
ent inadequate and uncleanly toilet provisions and arrangements shall 
we have a contagious center for immorality. 

There is, the country over to-day, an insistent need for the empow- 
ering of State boards of health with efficient authority to clean up, 
not only our dirty physical schools, but our dirty moral schools. 
This is easy to assert, but difficult of performance. A case in point 
is that of an eastern State where the conditions to which I have 
just referred are notoriously bad. The president of the State board 
of health told me a few days since, while discussing the possibihty of 
a more effective enforcement of the law now giving that board the 
power to condemn schools with improper and unsanitary outhouses, 
that a proper enforcement of the lav/ would mean its immediate repeal 
by the legislature. A study of the social and educational situation 
in that State convinces me that he was right. There is a vast differ- 
ence between clean statutes and clean schools. 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS A CKIME CONTEIBUTOR. 113 

The American sclioolhouse is primarily a contributor to our crim- 
inal account, because it fosters just that kind of uncleanliness in 
which the seeds of criminality find a ready growth. A large part of 
the problem of social hygiene centers in one part of the American 
schooUiouses. 

The child of the city to-day is the child of the streets. To keep the 
child off the streets is next to an impossibility. His presence there 
presents not only an educational problem, but a social issue of 
increasing magnitude. The crime-preventmg sclioolhouse must pro- 
vide, within and without, for proper play space for the children of 
its neighborhood. This schoolhouse must constitute itself a center 
for the phj^sical and social activities of children outside as weU as 
mside the school if it would successfully counteract the destructive 
mfluences that now characterize the streets of the American city. 
The schoolhouse of the average American city can not be held guilt- 
less so long as it fails to compete with the alley. 

The schoolhouse that keeps bankers' hours is only half a school. 
Within a few weeks the board of education of a middle western city 
ordered all-night hghts placed at the darkened entrances of all public 
school buildings. The reasons therefor were obvious. A good 
police measure, but a doubtful educational policy. The light might 
better have been provided for the inside and not for the outside of 
the building. Until the American schooUiouse is constructed so as 
to make proper provision for the legitimate recreations and amuse- 
ments of our civihzation, your medical sociologist wiU have an 
increasing task before him. If we are to fight the devil v/ith fire it 
is not unlikely that the bilhard table and the dancing floor will find 
a place m the completely equipped and socially enlarged American 
school buildmg. 

The schoohiouse that remains closed for one-thu'd to one-fourth 
of the year certamly presents a defenseless social pohcy. For the 
city child a summer vacation represents a crisis in moral develop- 
ment. The criminal responsibility of the schoolhouse will not be 
removed until it undertakes to be m operation throughout the whole 
year and in a way that will meet the instinctive needs of children 
and communities. 

The most characteristic American immorality is political immor- 
ahty. The American schoolliouse must be constructed so as to 
enable its use as a common meeting place for the discussion of politi- 
cal problems and social issues. "Keeping schools out of poUtics" 
is a pernicious doctrine. If the American schoolhouse is to be the 
real temple of democracy it must be constructed and arranged so as 
not only to safeguard children from physical ills and to promote then' 



114 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

best physical development, but also to serve as a slmne in which our 
people may protect themselves from the criminal furies of modern 
pohtical hfe. 

So long as we regard the schoolhouse as an influence apart from 
normal daily Hfe will it remain a factor in the development of the 
abnormal and the artificial. Our first school buildings were designed 
and arranged by theologians and pedagogues. Next came the archi- 
tects and the engineers, who were followed by the physicians and 
the hygienists. To-morrow the ideals of the humanist will control, 
ideals that seek to combine the necessities of instruction and of art, 
of construction and of health, of activities and of morals. All- 
pedagogue, architect, engineer, physician — must unite to make the 
schoolhouse sterile of the germs of immorality and criminality. 



TEACHING OF HYGIENE IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS. RECOMMENDATIONS 
OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 

Helen C. Putnam and Edward Jackson. 

{Bulletin of the American Academy of Medicine, June, 1914.) 

I. That from kindergarten up, by progressive steps, children bo 
helped to learn tlu'ough studies of plant and animal life the essen- 
tials of human ph^'siologic processes, parenthood, heredity, the essen- 
tials of influence of environment on health and development, including 
microorganisms, insects, and other carriers of communicable diseases; 
that included in lists with typhoid, tuberculosis, and other common 
contagions, syphilis and gonococcus infection be enumerated, corre- 
sponding data being given for each in the list. 

For this purpose it is urged that fellows of the academy concentrate 
individual influence on institutions training teachers and on boards 
licensing them, insisting that they be adequately prepared and tested 
in the elements of physical and chemical, biologic, and social sciences 
with special reference to their practical applications in hygiene and 
sanitation. 

II. That, beginning in seventh and eighth grades, and continuirig 
thi-ough high school, girls shall progressively acquire skiU in home 
making by practice in intelligent application to household affairs of 
the related elementary principles in physics, chemistry, and biology; 
this to include for girls over 15 years of age details in the care of 
infants and children. It is also recommended that boys be permitted 
to take such of these courses as they wish, and be required to take 
those parts concerned with municipal and household sanitation and 
with the social relations of the home. 

III. That to meet the needs of the several million children who 
annually drop out of primarj^, grammar, or high-school grades, for 



TEACHING SEX HYGIENE. 115 

girls (young women) over 15 years of age, schools or classes in home 
making be established by the State; and that in all continuation 
schools or classes for boys (young men) and young women instruction 
in sanitation and personal hygiene supplement vocational teaching, 
the minimum being the health details connected with the vocation 
itself and with the well-being of their famihes. 

IV. That to establish health habits and ideals, a regular part of the 
daily work of children at school shall be the testing of temperature, 
humidity, dustiness, air currents, air freshness, cleanliness, etc., by 
instruments of precision so far as possible (therm.ometer, hygrometer, 
anemometer, for example), charting results on the blackboard and 
permanently recording them in a book, with such service in correcting 
faults as is suitable; and that open-air room.s be established in every 
pubhc school system, 

V. That special attention be given to having all forms of physical 
exercise, including dancing, adapted to individual needs, taken under 
sanitary conditions, and conducted with insistence on correctness of 
fundamental technical details, as, for example, standing position, 
carriage of shoulders and head, closed mouth. 

VI. That medical men and women, nurses, janitors, and their 
supervisors be provided with instruction and training in school sani- 
tation and personal hygiene according to the public duties which each 
class undertakes, as teachers are supposed already to be: and be care- 
fully tested before appointing or licensing. 



THE TEACHING OF SEX HYGIENE IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 

Prof. C. R. Henderson, University of Chicago, President of Chicago Society of Social Hygiene. 
(Chicago Iledical Recorder, November, 1913.) 

I will put myself on record as favoring the purpose of those who are 
seeking to give education — and I am choosing my word very care- 
fully — on this subject in our public schools, families, churches, and 
everywhere else. I do not like the words ^'sex education." Perhaps 
"education with reference to sex" would be still better; but the whole 
treatment of the subject is evidently transitional. I hope the time 
will come when the word ''education" will cover aU that boys and 
gkls, and young men and young women, older men and older women, 
ought to know; that nothing will be omitted; that everything will 
fall in its place in the teaching of biological science, morals, and 
physical training, and in the teaching of religion; that everything 
that interests humanity will be taught in its place and in its due 
proportions. 

I think the whole difficulty has arisen because of false notions in 
regard to education in the past, and that there ought not to be, and 



116 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

in the future — perhaps not far away — there will be no such thing 
necessary as "sex education." It is my profound conviction that 
the time will come when boards of education the world over wiU seek 
to develop and direct to their true goal all the normal interests of 
humanity. Instruction on this subject must of course be given by 
comxpetent persons of proper character as well as of adequate infor- 
mation. That is essential to the success of our enterprise, and any 
other persons than these would do the cause a great deal of harm. I 
believe that the original motive of the medical society is one that 
ought to be the motive of all of us — to protect people against infec- 
tion, against the spread of loathsome and destructive diseases that 
come from prostitution and its consequences. 

Instruction is the least part of education. You may, indeed, 
protect a great many people by telling them the dangers of certain 
courses of conduct, but if j^ou can do nothing more than excite the 
physical fears by giving medical instruction, you have done nothing 
indeed, and sometimes harm; but you have not accomplished your 
fuU purpose, even as medical men, until you have gone further than 
instruction. Education means vastly more than that. It means 
the shaping of ideals, a play upon the feelings, such a kind of educa- 
tion as will make the boy chivalrous, knightly, and regard the interests 
of every daughter of Adam as the interests of his own sister, even if 
that daughter is a prostitute herself; a boy who will respect the ideal 
of womanhood even in those that we call fallen and outcast; who wiU. 
be such a boy, such a lad, such a young man that when he com.es to be 
a man he wiU be ashamed of himself if he even hints at the argument 
that it is necessary, in order to protect wife, sister, or daughter from 
th^se great evils, that we must have a class of prostitutes. 

A second word of caution and warning must be spoken, though the 
danger of being misunderstood at this point is great. An honored 
physician once said to me : ' ' You make a great mistake if you merely 
dwell upon the medical side of this cpiestion. There are a great many 
other sides — the moral and the religious." 

Much as you and I believe in the importance of protectmg people 
against venereal poisons, there are some things that are vastly worse 
than venereal poisons. The medical profession say that these dis- 
eases can, within limits, of course, be cured. They tell us that they 
can ''make sin safe." I do not say that they are wrong; that is a 
medical and professional matter. But if you could prevent all these 
diseases and keep prostitution you still have the real evils to combat. 
We must not be contented with a half victory. We maintain that 
victory at the cost of greater victories yet to be achieved is a kind of 
defeat. I have a right to say it, as a teacher, as one responsible for 
shaping the character of j^oung men and young women. I say that 
we must not dwell too exclusively on this matter of the prevention 



PEOPAGANDA AGAINST ALCOHOLISM. 117 

and liediiig of venereal poisons. There is aMileeper poison. When the 
young man pQrmits himself to go into this kind of company there is a 
damage done to his spirit, to his soul, to his character, to the commu- 
nity. Metaphorically speaking, there is such a thing as a soul poison, 
and that to me is the supreme interest of this whole business. We 
must not be satisfied with a temporary and superficial gain. Medical 
science will gain its victory and we shall all rejoice when these poisons 
have been done away with. It is toward thafc ideal that we are 
moving. But when you have achieved that, beyond there still lies 
this greater, larger problem,, and we can not do it alone as teachers, 
as mmisters of the gospel, and priests of the church; we must have 
the help of medical men, who come nearer to being the true confessors 
of the community than any other class among us. Wliat a wonderful 
trust when we commit to the hearts of the members of the medical 
profession the secrets of the household. Therefore, because v/e trust 
in you, we ask you to use all of your influence to aid us; and we 
believe that you will. We believe you will be interested not only 
in the prevention of disease, but that you will join, as citizens, as 
fathers and mothers, as good friends of hum.anity, with us in trying 
to hold up the highest, the loftiest ideals of the race; so that the phys- 
ical purity of the race will go hand in hand with the purification of 
the spirit of the race; and then shall we have, with your help — with- 
out it, never — a purified and an exalted humanity, that will look back 
to the disgrace and sorrows and pains of the past as thmgs that have 
taught us the most lastmg, eternal lessons of life. 



PROPAGANDA AGAINST ALCOHOLISM.' 

Alfred Gordon, M. D., Philadelphia. 
{Journal of the American Medical Association, Jan. 17, 1914.) 

A useful measure for decreashig and preventing alcoholism is propa- 
ganda in its broadest sense. The moral and intellectual influence of 
vai-ious antialcoholic societies is beneficial. The good they do can 
no!" be sulTiciently appreciated. Moral persuasion and conviction are 
most efucacioLis in that direction. The widest publicity concerning 
the effect of alcohol on physical and mental health should be consid- 
ered as vital. The public should read and see the pernicious conse- 
quences of alcoholism. Lectures and clinics shoald be systematically 
organized and actual demonstrations given. The public should be 
invited to visit particularly institutions for the feeble-minded, where 
they could see for themselves specimens of humanity brought into the 
world by parents whose alcoholic excesses have thrown on the com- 
munity a useless burden. Imbeciles, idiots, and those otherwise men- 

• General title of article: "Administrative and prophylactic measures against alcoholism."' 



118 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

tally deficient, epileptics, and children with all sorts of morphologic 
abnormalities result from parental acquired diseases or pernicious 
habits, of which alcoholism is one of the most conspicuous. 

Propaganda against alcoholism should be particularly applied to 
young persons and children. The r61e of the physician is here indi- 
cated. It is he who comes in contact with families. As counselor 
,in medical and hygienic matters he can use his great influence in 
various circles. Considered as a man of knowledge and experience, 
he will be listened to. He can prevent parents from giving children 
their first taste of drink. It is he who controls the diet and hygiene 
of children. It is to him that the mother addresses herself for advice 
as to the habits of her children. 

Next to the physician is the children's teacher. But the teacher 
himself must be well informed as to the nature and dangers of alco- 
holism. He should have taken, before he is prepared to instruct, a 
special course m social hygiene in which the effects of alcoholism 
should occupy a promment place. Such a course should be given m 
schools and colleges, and the mstruction should be not only theoret- 
ical but also practical. It is necessary that every youth leavmg 
school should possess a fundamental knowledge of the effect of alcohol 
on tissues, organs, the nervous system, the mentality, and the off- 
spring. From a tender age the child should be thoroughly imbibed 
with the idea that alcohol is one of the most obnoxious and dangerous 
poisons. It is the knowledge of what is true, useful, and indispensa- 
ble in life that presents the most powerful weapon against the acquire- 
ment of pernicious habits or diseases. Imparting this knowledge 
constitutes real scientific prophylaxy. 

The public at large should be familiarized with the fact that one 
of the threatening features of alcoholism is depopulation not only 
quantitatively, but also qualitatively. It leads to a degeneration of 
both the individual and the species. It produces a slow and pro- 
gressive individual deterioration and an intellectual and physical 
sterility of the race. 



TEACHING OF FIRST AID IN SCHOOLS. 

Charles A. Ivinch, M. D., New York. 
(Bulletin of the American Academy of Medicine, June, 1913.) 

The idea of instruction in first aid to the mjured originated in the 
brain of Prof, von Esmarch, of the University of Kiel, when he 
was surgeon general of the German Armj-. He argued that the 
efficiency of the soldier would be increased, his suffering alleviated, 
and often his life would be saved, if his wounds could be promptly 
dressed on the field. Accordingly, every man was furnished with a 
packet sewed into the lining of his coat, containing a clean compress, 



TEACHING FIRST AID. 119 

a bandage, and a strap for a tourniquet to stay the flow of blood. 
The results justified the expectations, and after the Franco-Prussian 
War he exj^anded his instructions so as to be useful to railway and 
steamboat officials and employees in factories and mines. He added 
chapters on poisons and household emergencies. Good Samaritan 
societies were established all over the Empire. The idea was trans- 
planted to England, and grafted on the St. Johns Ambulance asso- 
ciations which had been formed to inspire manliness in young men and 
teach them to siive people from drowning. In 1882 a first-aid 
society was organized in New York City to give this instruction. 
Recently the American National Red Cross has created a very effi- 
cient firet-aid department for instruction in all the large cities of the 
country, New York being left to the society already established there. 
The Pullman Co. has given the Red Cross a railway car completeh 
equipped with appliances, both for giving and teaching first aid. 
Many of the western railroads, and lately the Pennsylvania, have 
welcomed this instruction. The Bureau of Mines has also made a 
liberal use of the Pullman first-aitl cars. Many classes have been 
formed in settlements and neighborhood houses. The New York 
Board of Education regularly includes this subject in its courses of 
free lectures, and a very large number of those attending have sub- 
mitted to examination and received diplomas. The question of 
including first aid in the scheme of public instruction has been 
broached. The Boy Scouts and similar organizations of boys all over 
the country have taken up the matter, all of which leads us to the 
inquiry: At what age is instruction m first aid best to be given? 

The average boy is content to be in "leading strings" until his 
tenth or eleventh year. At this age he aspires to be a leader, or at 
least to be a member of a gang. Altruistic principles do not develop 
until a couple of years later. Neither is cooperation or team work 
well done before the thirteenth or fourteenth year. Then the boy 
realizes that he has a neighbor and he wants to do something for that 
neighbor. His sufferings appeal to the boy's sympathy. Then also 
he is able to understand the mechanism of the human body and has 
acquired a certain amount of dexterity in the use of his own hands 
and members, and he has attained a measure of stature and strength 
that makes him efficient in rendering prompt aid to the injured. 

Of girls about the same things may be said. They are more 
capable of serious altruistic thought after the thirteenth year than in 
their childhood days. And by that physical and mental develop- 
ment better able to comprehend and apply the principles of first aid. 

Nothing in the foregoing is to be construed as discouraging special 
instruction for imminent needs. But just as correct speech is taught 
from the earliest days and the study of grammar and rhetoric deferred 
until riper years, so should instruction in first aid be fragmentary 



120 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

and adapted to present emergencies in the case of little children and 
its systematic study be postponed to the third or fourth year of the 
high-school curriculum. In social settlement work the proper pupils 
for instruction are to be found in worldng girls' clubs and young men's 
classes rather than in the junior organizations. 



THE EFFECT OF COMPETITIVE ATHLETICS ON SCHOLARSHIP. 

H. D'Akcy Power, M. D., San Francisco. 
( California State Journal of Medicine, October, 1913.) 

Two years ago the State Medical Society of California appointed a 
committee to investigate the effects of athletic training in the high 
schools and universities and made me a member thereof. As m_y 
colleagues were devoting themselves to a consideration of ultimate 
physical effects, I thought it might be a useful division of labor if 
I concentrated on a study of the mental side of the question. This 
paper is the result and is in fact an expansion of my subreport, 
dealing also with some points that are perhaps a little outside of the 
direct scope of the authorized inquiry and presenting opinions for 
which I alone am responsible. 

That I may the better present the matter, I jjropose an attempt to 
answer the following questions: 

First. Is the expenditure of public or quasi-public money for higher 
education authorized or intended for any other purpose than the 
cultivation of the mind and the acquirements of laiowledge ? 

Second. Is it necessary or desirable that in order to obtain such 
intellectual ends physical culture be a part of the curriculum? 

Third. If physical culture be desirable, is the method of training 
a part of the student body in competitive athletics a proper form of 
such training ? 

Fourth. What is the ascertained effect, as seen in scholai-ship and 
life, of competitive athletics in high schools and universities? 

It seems scarcely necessary to ask the first question. That the 
public is paying for high schools and universities, and private munifi- 
cence in endowing the same, makes such expenditures for the sole 
purpose of affording opportunities for the cultivation of the mind, 
would appear self-evident. Legislative enactments and endowment 
deeds alike plainly state such to be the fact. These institutions 
neither exist for their own glorification, for the benefit of any group 
of individuals, directly or indirectly, nor for any material or social 
benefit to their alumni that is not the direct product of intellectual 
culture and efficiency. 

Question 2. If we turn the question over to physiology and psy- 
chology, certain interesting questions will present themselves. Here 
are a few: 



COMPETITIVE ATHLETICS AND SCHOLAESHIP. 121 

What role does the muscular system play m the life of the organism 
and the development of the brain. 

It is to be remembered that the muscles contribute more than half 
the mass of the body. Variations in their condition or bulk lead to 
fluctuations in energy production and chemical changes that affect 
every cell in the organism. We are too m.uch inclined to think of 
muscles solely as part of the machinery of motion, but it is to be 
remembered that we are warm-blooded animals compelled to meta- 
bolize a given quantity of food per day to maintain our temperature, 
and that the muscle is the chief agent in such fuel burning. Ergo, 
shrunken muscles mean defective heat production and possibly trans- 
ference of the function to cells that normally are devoted to other 
purposes, involving, in its train, general malnutrition. From this 
vie\\-point a defective musculature must also involve neural elements. 
But musculature stands in another and even closer relation to the 
nervous system. ^Vlost of the neuronic cells of the cord and a large 
proportion of those of the brain are directly concerned in iiiliibiting 
or controlling muscular movements. Without functional use their 
nutrition is not maintained and analogy would require us to expect 
that adjacent areas devoted to sensory or psychic uses, participating 
in a common blood supply, are likely to suffer b}^ reason of their 
contiguity. 

We have excellent clinical evidence to this effect in the experience 
of the prison at Elmira, N. Y. It is part of the reformatory activi- 
ties of that excellent institution that the unfortunates committed to 
its care shall receive instruction dming their incarceration fitting 
them for useful service in later life. It was found in the case of the 
undernomished, muscularly defective, slum-raised prisoners such 
efforts were fruitless. They neither had the desire nor the capacity 
for the simplest instruction; but after a course of physical training, 
with the growth of the body appeared the ability to profit by mental 
training. So much for the affirmative side of the proposition. 

There can be no question as to the desirability of a fairly develoj)ed 
muscular system, kept in reasonable activity, both for its effect on 
the organism as a whole and the brain in particular. It is, however, 
to be observed that in considering the classes with which we are deal- 
ing, namely, the students of high schools and universities, cases of 
muscular deficiency such as those encountered in Elmira are very 
rare. The disadvantages of excessive musculature are many. To 
begin with, the musculature constitutes the mass of the body. The 
very idea of health implies balance. To overdevelop or overexercise 
any one part of the organism is pathological, as Prof. Lee, of Colum- 
bia University, writing on this subject, says: "Physiology teaches 
that fatigue of one tissue from overuse means fatigue of all tissues. 
Extreme activity of the muscular system involves not only lessened 



122 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

muscular but also lessened mental activ^ity." But the overuse of the 
muscles means more than diversion of energy. It implies cardiac 
strain, with its secondary effects; most important of all, it involves 
flooding of the system with myogenic katabolites, and that these are 
poisons the fatigue phenomena of muscle tissue amply prove. 

[Then follows a discussion of sensory and motor types of mind, 
athletes belonging predominatingly to the latter type.] 

I would, therefore, be inclined to ansvv^er question 2 as follows: 
Reasonable muscular development and activity is necessary to the 
attainment of a physiologically balanced organism, and muscle train- 
ing witliin limits is conducive to brain development. But there is 
no evidence that the mass of high-school or university students are 
so underdeveloped or lethargic as to call for special provision in this 
direction. If such were the case it would demand an organization of 
physical training as an integral part of the curriculmn from which 
none should be exempt. 

Question 3. Admit^ting that physical training is desirable, though 
not indispensable, is competitive athletics a proper form of such 
training? The first point to be observed is that competitive teams 
are recruited from a small part of the student body. Let us ask 
what part? From the poorly developed, who need and would be 
benefited by exercise or training? We opine not. Such material 
does not provide the sinews of war. Do they represent the sensory 
type of mind, with its tendency to excessive introspection, suspended 
judgment, and slowness to act; whose possessors, even when muscu- 
lar, would be benefited by the training of the campus? Again we 
opine not. The man who takes to competitive athletics as a duck to 
water is the individual of motor type, whose energies constantly 
bubble into muscular action, who naturally acts on the spur of the 
moment. He is of the fluid attention, who never learns to study. 
To such men comj^etitive athletics is as easy as mental work is hard. 
But they not only do not need training along these lines, but all such 
training tends to further fix their unfortunate natural tendencies. 
The athlete must act, not tliink; so the greater the perfection of their 
technic, the more automatic the working of their minds. Competi- 
tive athletics train the wix)ng man, physically and mentally. The 
view here propounded that the man who goes in for exercise is by 
nature averse to study is not only based on the psychological prm- 
ciples set forth, but is supported by the observation of the majority 
of teachers. In answer to a questionnaire (to be described later) 
sent by the writer to all the universities of the United States and to 
the largest high schools of California, this view was supported b}' 60 
per cent of the replies. 



COMPETITIVE ATHLETICS AND SCHOLARSHIP. 123 

. Question 4. I prepared the following post-card questionnaire: 

The Committee on Athletics of the State Medical Society of California will be 
obliged by an ansAver to the following questions based on your p/ersonal observation. 
(Kindly return answer within a week.) 

1. Have you found students excessively addicted to athletics disinclined to or 
incapable of intellectual effort? 

2. Do students that have passed through a period of athletic training show any 
falUng off in the quality of their college work? For how long? 

3. If so, what is the effect on — 

Memory. 
Concentration. 
Reasoning. 
Will power. 

4. Have you noted any relation between athletics and morals in general? In 
ideals? In restraint? 

(Signed) -, ^ _ 

Professor or instructor in University of 

I forwarded a number to the president of e'N'er}" important uni- 
versity in the United States and to 20 of the high schools of Cali- 
fornia, together with a letter in the name of the State Medical Society 
of California, asking the cooperation of the presidents to the extent 
of placing the questionnaire with the me a who would give the most 
useful and unbiased information, and also inviting correspondence. 
A very large number of replies resulted, and the great universities 
in particular have afforded valuable data. 

[Then follows a criticism of the dependence of competitive athletics 
upon gate receipts.] 

Bearing in mind the probability that current tendencies must 
have made for a predisposition to answers favoring competitive 
athletics, I will proceed to analyze the replies. As already stated, 
60 per cent of the total replies express a belief that the athlete is 
natiu-ally disinclmed to study. The high-school instructors place 
it as high as 75 per cent. This is to be expected, as the nonstudious 
youth woiUd naturally tend to drop out at the end of the high- 
school course. The second inquiry is answered in equal proportion 
by high-school and imiversity professors and is to the effect that 75 
per cent of them are of opinion by direct observation that men in 
training show a falling off in scholarshij). Some of my correspond- 
ents are explicit on this point. 

The third question was designed to ascertain whether the influence 
affected all or part of the mental faculties, and the terms used were 
such as everyone imdei-stands, even though some psychologists 
might consider them obsolete. The answers are striking — 94 per 
cent state concentration to be weakened or destroyed; 86 per cent note 
weakening of memory; 83 per cent weakening of will jDower; 78 per 
cent of power to reason. Again, the high-school instructors give a 
more averse opinion than do the imiversity professorate. 



124 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

We now arrive at the last question, '^What is tiie effect of com- 
petitive athletics on morals?" The very varying opinions expressed 
are seemingly due to the different ways in which the question was 
interpreted. It appeared to me that morals could be affected in 
two not necessarily connected manners. Ideals of conduct (not 
confined to the game) and life could be raised or lowered. And the 
power of restraint in face of temptation could be strengthened or 
weakened, not merely for the sake of physical fitness during the 
training period, but as a continued influence dming life. My ques- 
tions were designed to bring out observations on these points. Un- 
fortunately, the answers show that in a very large number of cases 
the respondents considered only the ethics of the game and the 
training period. We thus find 60 per cent expressing a belief that 
ideals are improved, but when reasons or details are given they 
refer solely to fair play in the game. Adverse criticism is, however, 
explicit. * * * Seventy per cent of the answers are favorable to 
athletics as increasing power of restraint, but again the result is 
vitiated by the prevalent underlying thought that because excesses 
during the training period are sternly interdicted, therefore the men 
have acquired habitual restraint. * * * As stated, the prepon- 
derant opinion as given in the answei-s to the questionnaires is favor- 
able to athletics as a good moral influence, but the number of replies 
to this question was smaller than to the others, and I believe largely 
given under a misunderstanding. Lastly, 40 per cent of all replies 
were neutral. 

ATHLETIC SPORTS IN RELATION TO HEALTH. 

(Editorial in Journal of American Medical Association, Jl/ar. 21, 1.914-) 

It is one of the numerous parodoxical facts encountered in every- 
day life that the problems of athletics rarely receive the attention 
of those who are most concerned with health, the supposed ultimate 
purpose of bodily exercise. The maiiagement of athletics is rarely 
found in the hands of a physician, by whose scientific guidance one 
might reasonably expect that the various sports would be enabled 
to effect the best of which they are capable and woidd be freed from 
the unconcealed dangers attending some of the present athletic 
practices. Athletics have for the most part to-day become the 
province of the people at large. It is the uneducated trainer rather 
than the physician, the hero-worshiper rather than the hygienist, 
who directs and inspires the performance of the physical exercises 
which ought to be undertaken primarily in the interests of a sound 
body and a sound mind. Games have developed into contests in 
which victory is sought at any human price. The "manager" is 
the foremost adviser, and the physician is called on as a last resource 



ATHLETIC SPOETS IN KELATIOlsr TO HEALTH. 125 

to mend the damage that may have been done in an ill-advised 
struggle for athletic supremacy. Such are the exhibitions that the 
populace wants. Until there is a wide-spread education of the people 
as to the proper underlying purpose of bodily exercise and the 
dangers that beset the indiscriminate and uncontrolled pursuit of 
athletics by every one whom the inclination stirs, it is a seemingly 
hopeless task to preach the gospel of reform. 

Meanwhile, the physician and the physiologist must content them- 
selves with acquiring the data on the basis of which sound judgment 
in relation to the problems of exercise and sane advice in the pursuit 
of athletic sports may be obtained. Only the beginnings have been 
made in this field of study. If football or rowing or bicycling have 
their dangers, what are they ? Wlierein do the respective advan- 
tages of the various types of physical exercise lie, and w^hat are their 
unquestioned effects on the organism? What are the plwsiologic 
prerequisites for participation in each form of gymnastic performance ? 
These and a host of similar questions demand ready answers in re- 
spect to which there should be common accord, precisely as there now 
is a growing appreciation of the physical standard of health demanded 
in the various industrial occupations. In the latter case the subject 
is investigated because it has become a matter of dollars and cents; 
when health and happiness are the sole end sought the same question 
has been neglected. 

Among the internal organs the heart and kidneys have hitherto 
received most consideration in connection with the physiology of 
exercise. There is an idea abroad that each form of athletics has its 
own peculiar types of pathologic defects. Just as one hears of the 
"tobacco heart," there are the alleged "bicycle heart," "football 
kidney," etc. It has been the merit of Albu, in Berlin, to point out 
that the pathogenesis of the abnormal conditions familiarly associ- 
ated with the pursuit of athletics may be interpreted from a common 
point of view. In other words, all undue muscular exertion, whether 
carried out by one group of muscles or another, in one type of move- 
ment or a different one, affects certain groups of organs and meta- 
bolism in general in entirely comparable ways. The physiologic or 
pathologic result may vary in degree, but not in kind. The effect of 
vigorous exercise in its more extreme manifestations exhibits two 
phases: First, there is a stimulation bringing about a rapid, A^igorous 
circulation to the taxed muscles and the internal organs and disclos- 
ing itself by the rise of blood pressure and augmented cardiac activity. 
This is followed sooner or later, as the varying intensity of the exer- 
tion may determine, by a depression phase. A fall in blood pressure 
and functional heart weakness ensue. It is the latter aspect of the 
results of undue exercise, with the derived consequences of cardiac 
insufficiency, that is most likely to engage the attention of the phy- 



126 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDKEK. 

sician. In varying intensity the symptoms of stasis tliroughout the 
circulation now arise. Venous stasis in the kidneys occasions the 
characteristic nephi-itic changes which find expression in the altered 
composition of the urine. Every sort of pathologic sediment, rang- 
ing from the slightest deviation from normal to the picture of severe 
nephritis, may be seen. Frequently the extremely sudden onset of 
circulatory changes determines a degree of venous hyperemia quite 
comparable with the condition in acute hemorrhiigic nephritis. In 
the "athletic kidney," however, the j^athologic manifestations are 
always caused by functional disturbances rather than by morphologic 
alterations in kidnej'' structure. In this respect Albu is inclmed to 
com]) are the kidney changes resulting from undue exercise with those 
occurrmg in orthostatic albuminuria, which is likewise presumably a 
purely functional phenomenon. He believes that extreme exertion 
of the musculature of the lower limbs is far more likely to mduce renal 
stasis than the exercise of other groups of muscles. In confirmation 
of this it is said that even vigorous use of so-called chest-weights and 
other apparatus of similar design rarely, if ever, disposes to abnormal 
kidney manifestations in the way that running may. 

It is asserted that the kidney disorders at times discovered as the 
result of the active use of the lower limbs, in running m^atches, for 
instance, are due to the mechanical jar or vibration peculiar to this 
form of exercise. Observations made on numerous j^ersons who have 
undergone long journeys by railway, in which the opportunity for 
such alleged injury by vibration alone is not inconsiderable, have 
failed to disclose any damage to the kidneys. 

Athletic exercises may be difi^erentiated into feats of strength and 
feats of endurance. Albu maintains that these differ essentially only 
in the fact that in the one case (in tests of strength) the initial rise 
in blood pressure is very soon transformed into one of depressed 
circulation; m the case of endurance tests this comes about more 
gradually. In feats of endurance the fall in blood pressure reaches 
a much lower level than is found in the brief exhibition of great mus- 
cular exertion, and the physiologic consequences are determined ac- 
cordingly. There are no important differences between the different 
types of athletic sports in respect to their physiologic effects on the 
body. The severe symptoms, however, make their apjDearance more 
jDrominently in the exercises like football, wrestlmg, bicycle contests, 
etc., which may call for extreme exertion. Every forced muscular 
exertion leads to a precipitate rush of blood to the periphery and the 
mternal organs. An enormous volume of blood may be driven into 
the arteries in a very brief period. When the cause of this circulatory 
response is removed, equilibrium speedily enures. The heart is not 
overtaxed unduly long and the encountered weakness is transitory at 
most; but in contests of long endurance the final outcome is a pro- 



CARDIAC EFFECTS OF ATHLETICS. 127 

longed and unrelieved fall in pressure, with an increasing relaxation 
of the fatigued cardiac musculature. 

To what degree the distinctly pathologic manifestations of improper 
athletics may arise depends on a variety of circumstances, some of 
which can readily be indicated. Age is a factor of significance. Dur- 
ing the iDeriod of adolescence, when the organs have not reached their 
full development, the responses are pronounced, and the person is 
usually sensitive to muscular excesses. "Constitution" expresses in 
a somewhat vague way another factor which determines the fitness 
of a person for athletics. There must be adequate development, suit- 
able nutrition, and a competent nervous system, the latter element 
often being undervalued. Obviously, appropriate training furnishes 
another safeguard agamst the dangers of athletic overdoing. Much 
of what is called ''training" m this country is, however, a combina- 
tion of unscientific and sometimes irrational dietetics with psychic 
quackery. Last, but not least, the degree of exertion required is a 
feature of determining significance when the ill effects of athletic 
sports are to be avoided. The distinction between doing and over- 
doing needs to be learned and appreciated more than any other single 
factor in the rational pursuit of bodily exercise for health and enjoy- 
ment rather than for personal superiority and group supremacy. 



THE CARDIAC EFFECTS OF IMMODERATE COLLEGE ATHLETICS,. 

Leopold Shumackee, M. D., aud William S. Middleton, M. D., Madison, W^s. 
{Journal of the American Medical Association, Apr. 11, 1914-) 

The frequency of cardiac lesions among the men participating in 
competitive sports at the University of Wisconsin has emphasized 
the urgency for a study of this subject from a clinical point of view. 
From this aspect it may be divided into three parts: First, the imme- 
diate effects of severe muscular strain on the heart; second, the 
effects of training and a series of severe athletic contests on the heart; 
and, third, the ultimate effects on the subsequent life of an individual 
of alterations brought about in the heart through athletic contests 
in early life. 

From a revie\<^ of the imm.ediate effects of severe muscular exercise 
on the heart we conclude that — 

1. Normally, during severe muscidar exertion, there is an increase 
of pulse rate, arterial and venous blood pressure, pulse pressure, and 
of the systolic output of blood. 

2. In the period immediately following, there is a fall of pulse rate 
to normal, and of arterial blood pressure, pulse pressure, and, fre- 
quently, of the diastolic size of the heart to below normal. 

3. Increased diastolic distention during violent effort may reach a 
point beyond the capacity of the heart muscle to bring about a com- 



128 THE HEALTH OE SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

pleto systole. This results in the typical symptoms of acute cardiac 
dilatation. The weakened condition of the cardiac muscle is shown 
after the cessation of bodily effort by its inability to contract to its 
normal size or below. This precludes all possibility of obtaining the 
rest needed after the strain of increased diastohc expansion and 
systolic contraction prevalent in very active exercise. 

4. Clinically it is well known that infectious diseases predispose to 
mj^ocardial weakness and to acute dilatation. Experimentally, 
De la Camp has shown that starvation, likewise, so x>redispos8s. 
Some authors doubt if there be nonpathologic hearts with a muscu- 
lature so weak that it can be strained sufficiently by muscular exertion 
to dilate acutely. Case 2 (1361) appears to indicate that at least 
chronic overstrain may Vv^eaken the myocardium, to this extent. 

5. At present we have no definite means of judging by clinical 
tests whether or not an untried apparently normal heart is capable 
of standing the strain of athletic contests. Some v/eak hearts remain 
dilated after a relatively slight exertion and are, therefore, clearly 
without adequate tone to withstand the severe strain. On the other 
hand, hearts known to be diseased may respond in the normal manner 
by contracting slightly after the cessation of moderate exercise. 
Hearts that give distinct systolic murmurs may withstand a Marathon 
race better than hearts apparently much more normal (Barach). 

6. Extreme care should be given to the examination of the heart 
before and after moderate exercise in all who desire to enter severe 
athletic contests. Failure of normal reaction should bar anyone 
from such contests. Even those withstanding these contests well 
should have the heart examined at frequent mtervals during their 
training to avoid overstrain. Many men weaken the heart muscle, 
instead of strengthening it, by continued overstraining. Riviere's 
observations, in 1909, on the effect of prolonged overstrain on young 
boys, which he found to result in the production of persistent cardiac 
changes, should serve as a special warning in care of the young. 

7. Infectious diseases are especially liable to weaken the myocar- 
dium. For this reason severe athletic contests should be avoided by 
sufferers with or convalescents from acute infectious diseases, even 
of so mild a nature as tonsillitis or grip. "To work a cold off" by 
severe exercise is dangerous advice. 

The question next naturally arises as to the condition of the heart 
in athletes who pass through one or more seasons of training and 
athletic contests without obvious symptoms of cardiac trouble. 

To determine the extent of cardiac alterations in athletes at the 
University of Wisconsin, we have made an examination of the hearts 
of 45 athletes who have taken part in major sports at the university, 
and for the sake of control have examined the hearts of 20 nonath- 
letic students. In both cases we have been guided in our selection 



CAEDIAC EFFECTS OF ATHLETICS. 129 

merely by the desire to pick out men whose social and medical history 
gives no reason for assuming that extraneous factors have altered 
the normal structure or functioning of the heart. 

Our studies show that, while acute cardiac dilatation of an imme- 
diate serious nature is not so frequent as one might expect among 
college athletes, marked cardiac hypertrophy is the rule rather than 
the exception, and that in a considerable percentage of cases func- 
tional disturbance of a more or less serious nature accompanies the 
hypertrophy. 

The marked cardiac lesions found in so large a proportion of pur 
college athletes present a serious problem, especially at a time when 
physical training is extending from the colleges to the secondary 
schools and the popular idea of a good physical trainer is so often the 
man who can turn out winning teams. While it is not desirable 
unduly to restrict healthy sports, on the other hand the leaders in 
athletic sports should not be called on to sacrifice too much the future 
for the present. The tendency in boys from 14 to 18 to develop 
cardiac lesions which arc transitory, if the heart is not at this time 
subjected to overstrain, com.plicates the problem when extended to 
high-school athletes. 

There seems reason to believe that at present there is an increase 
in cardiovascular disease in this as in most civilized countries. The 
relations of violent muscular exertion to such diseases should be 
thoroughly understood. The college athlete represents a type of 
special interest in this connection. During violent athletic contests 
he is stimulated by the excitement of the crowd to exert himself far 
beyond the point of physical comfort. Between seasons and when 
out of traunng he is apt to lead a more or less sedentary life, and this 
becomes usually the case after his athletic career is over. 

The effects on the after life of the members of the college crews at 
Oxford and at Harvard have given rise to several studies, but the 
results are not of much value in throwing light on the general prob- 
lem. They show in general that the crew men have lived a few years 
longer than would have been expected from mortality tables used by 
life-insurance companies, but accurate medical details are wanting, 
and we have as yet no good data on the life expectations of the picked 
classes from which the crew men have come. Perhaps the most 
significant tables are those of the Surgeon General of the Navy, who 
reports six deaths in athletes from diseases attributable to athletic 
overstrain to one in uonathletes among the select lot of young men 
trained at Annapolis. It seems reasonable to assume that a young 
man whose athletic training had led to cardiac hypertrophy with 
some functional disturbance likely to increase when the large heart 
no longer has exceptional work to do will be physically handicapped 



130 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

in life, to what extent careful study of numerous men is necessary to 
show. It will be found not only in the field of cardiovascular diseases, 
but also in the decreased resistance which such men show to acute 
infections, such as typhoid fever and pneumonia. Dr. Harlow Brooks 
in 1913, as medical officer of a regiment of the National Guard in New 
York, in which there are many college athletes from 5 to 15 years out 
of college, has found the health of these men on the whole decidedly 
inferior to that of the other members of the regiment. 

CONCLUSIONS. 

1. Athletic training leads at first to physiologic hypertrophy of 
the heart; but when prolonged and marked by severer athletic con- 
tests it usually leads to hypertrophy plus dilatation of a variable 
degree, frequently marked by valvular insufficiency. 

2. Functionally, the hypertrophied heart, even when dilated and 
giving distinct evidence of valvular insufficiency, may prove more 
fitted to carry the man through a severe athletic contest than a 
normal heart would be. On the other hand, acute cardiac dilatation 
occurs more frequently in athletes and men used to severe muscular 
strain than in normal men, and the ultimate effects are more pro- 
longed and severe. 

3. There is reason to believe that for normal human activities an 
"athletic" heart is distinctly disadvantageous. 



IMPORTANCE OF REGULATED REST AND PLAY FOR SCHOOL 

CHILDREN. 

James D. Love, M. D., Jacksonville, Fla. 

{Southern MedkalJournal. March, 1914.) 

In regulating the play of a school child I presuppose that this 
regulation extends to both the extent and nature of play, for while 
one child may participate with freedom in games entailing strenuous 
activity, another child should be permitted but limited indulgence in 
such, and for still another they should be altogether forbidden. 
Fatigue, consequent on overexercise, may, by depletion of vitality, 
awaken into activity a tuberculosis that previously had as its ex- 
pression only enlarged lymph nodes. By fatigue the resistance of 
the poorly nourished child may be so undermined as to render it 
an easy prey to all infectious maladies. Strenuous play may prove 
disastrous and even fatal in cardiac disease, while selected and 
restricted play is to be commended. 

Th(> school child with a spinal curvature, wdth flat foot, with 
narrow chest, the hunchback, the mentally deficient, are all as much 



REGULATED REST AND PLAY. 131 

entitled as the cardiac patient to the supervision of a constant 
physical instructor. In this connection I would protest against the 
obviously unjust methods pursued by the physical directors of many 
of our public schools. One has but to visit the playgrounds of one of 
these schools to note the discrimination practiced against the very 
child who mostly needs regulated physical exercise. The physically 
lit and well-developed boy who scarcely needs the assistance of a 
director has lavished on him the most patient endeavors of an athletic 
trainer, who hopes, through the physical prowess of his young protege, 
that honor may redound to himself and his school. The undeveloped 
and physically defective child, who has been briefly tried and thrown 
into the discard, is from every humane point of view more entitled 
to individual physical instruction and regulated play than the robust 
and promising 5^oung athlete. The pathetic side of this picture is seen 
in the wistful, longing eyes, the adulation and hero worship, depicted 
on the face of the little chap who is thus left to his own feeble efforts 
to work out the problen of his physical salvation. Till the needs and 
requirements of the school child are studied with a view to developing 
the weak, conserving the strong, and overcoming the deformities of 
the defective ; till the child's capacity for play is measured and his need 
of rest is considered; till individual instruction and guidance are 
given these children under competent supervision, we can not hope 
for the results that should accrue from regulated rest and play. 

Wliile many of the foregoing remarks mostly apply to the growing 
boy, I should deem my duty but poorly fulfilled were I to omit some 
special reference to the crying need of regulating rest and play as 
applied to the developing schoolgirl. No one better than the phy- 
sician can appreciate the menace to future health that attends the 
transitional period from girlhood to womanhood. We know that 
this period is an especially critical one among girls of delicate breeding, 
and that it must be surrounded by every safeguard to insure for her 
perfect physical development and future health and strength. Dur- 
ing this period the amount of work and play should be carefully 
curtailed and regulated. 

It is not the province of this paper to recommend the nature of 
play needful for even the average school child. This can only be 
asccj'tained by careful consideration of the individual child's capacity 
and needs. But I would protest against the coercive indoor gym- 
nastics that constitute a part of the regimen of many of out modern 
schools. For the most part this is not only distasteful to the child 
but is fruitless of the very results that are hoped to be secured. Just 
as far as is consistent with the needful limitations and restrictions, 
a child should be accorded freedom in the selection of his exercise and 
play, for without a doubt the happy state of mind that attends a 



132 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

pleasing form of exercise contributes materially to the benefits 
derived therefrom. This especially applies to the normal child, who 
for a great portion of the time can rely on the promptings of nature 
to select and limit his exercise and play. 

Many of our school children are incapable of prolonged and sus- 
tained mental effort without serious detriment to what is at best but an 
unstable nervous organization, and I am sure that for these children 
the study periods required in many of our public schools are entirely 
too long. In the minds of many of our teachers the idea still prevails 
that frequent recesses are forms of indulgence or special privileges to 
which only the brightest and best-behaved children are entitled. 
I deny the right of any teacher or disciplinarian to select as a form of 
punishment the curtailing of play which to every growing child is 
an absolute necessity. I contend that if a child must be denied 
recess or be ''kept in" after school hours as a punishment for acts of 
omission or commission, then is our systen faulty indeed. Desire for 
physical activity is a predominant trait in every normal child, and 
associated with this is an equal desire to be amused. I indorse the 
views of Dr. Kerley, that among our school children ''absence of 
proper amusement is the mother of crime," that amusement and play 
may be made as educational as we like, and tliat play of the right 
Idnd is always educational. 

In closing I would refer to the absurdity of regulating the rest and 
play of the school child for eight months of the year and freeing him 
from restrictions and depriving him of guidance during the months of 
vacation. Any system of regulation of rest and play adopted by our 
public schools must, in order to be fruitful of best results, be con- 
tinued without interruption during the entire period of school life. 
Neglect of this is, for the ends to be attained, just as irrational as to 
carefully regulate the diet of a child through the school months, and, 
freeing him from all restrictions during vacation, accord him free 
rein for such gastronomic indiscretions as are prompted by the ca- 
prices of appetite and fancy. Since it is not to be expected that chil- 
dren can be kept under the constant supervision of a physical director, 
especially during the months of vacation, it is necessary that parental 
cooperation be secured in order that instructions as to regulated rest 
and play may be carried out through the entire year. Public play- 
grounds have become a recognized essential in every large community 
and could be as appropriately utilized in the smallest towns. On 
every one of these playgrounds a clubhouse might be built and used not 
only for indoor amusements and physical training, but as a place for 
individual instruction of parents and children as to the nature and 
extent of play and the amount of rest suitable for every child. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 133 

COMPARATIVE GROWTH IN CHEST CIRCUMFERENCE AND IN BODY 

LENGTH. 1 

■\ViLLiAM Carlos Williams, M. D., Medical Inspector of Schools, Rutherford, N. J . 
{Archives of Pediatrics, August, 1913.) 

In New Jersey the medical inspector of schools in m\y given dis- 
trict is asked to measure and record the circumference of the chests 
and the body length in all children once a year. 

Tui-ning the problem over in my mind during the regular yearly 
examination four thmgs become apparent: 

(1) That there is no normal size for the chest in either males or 
females at any given age; no standard by w^hich a chest of a certain 
age may be judged and declared to be either larger or smaller than 
it should be, for at any given age there were chests of great variety 
as to cu'cumference, all of them, as far as could be told, in healthy 
individuals. Also, I found that these chests were progressing along 
parallel developmental lines, one with the other, from year to year, at 
the same time retaining the original — I am to presume hereditary — - 
circumference in relation to length of body, 

(2) That in general there appeared to be a fairly uniform increase 
in circumference each year for all the chests of the same age, though 
at certain ages this increase in cu'cumference seemed to be greater 
than at other ages. 

(3) Furthermore, that at a certain age the boys' chests seemed to 
grow faster than the girls' chests, and vice versa. 

(4) And. finally, that there was an inverse relation between chest 
groAvth and the growth in length of the body, and that in general 
this was most apparent at one certain age, which differed with the 
two sexes. 

To see if this ratio actually occurred, I at once began to arrange 
and analyze the mass of figures I had collected during the examina- 
tions of that year and the one preceding. The results were chaotic. 

Being convinced that this was due to inaccuracy in making the 
measurements I then began to work with the Bowditch table of 
measurements of American-born Boston school children, the results 
of which w^ork are the cause for this paper. 

These figures were compiled from American-born Boston school 
childien — 4,327 boys and 3,681 girls, from 7 to 16 years. 

I took the number of inches gained in height and chest circumfer- 
ence from one year to the next in boys and girls separately, thus: 

Gain in chest circumference between the ages 7 and 8 — girls, 0.5; boys, 0.5. 

Gain in body length between the ages 7 and 8 — girls, 2.1; boys, 2.0. 

Then dividing the gain in chest circumference by the gain in height 
(5-^-2.1) we get a figure approximately 2, which will indicate the 

» General title of article: "The Normal and Adventitious Danger Periods for Pulmonary Disease in 
Children." 



134 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDRBlSr. 



ratio between the development in height and chest circumference 
during that year. 

Proceeding in this way from Bowditch's figures we get then an 
average ratio for each year, one figure for the boys, one for the girls. 

These figures are as follows (for children 7 to 16 yeai-s of age): 





7-8 


8-9 


9-10 


10-11 


11-12 


12-13 


13-14 


14-15 


15-10 




2 
2 


3.8 
4.0 


3.0 
.9 


3 

5 


3 
3 


2.9 
7.0 


4 

7 


6 
10 


4 


Girls 


16 







Consulting my table I found, as I had expected, that there was 
a minimum ratio between gain in chest circumference and gam in 
body length, which appeared at a different age in the two sexes, and 
that in each sex this minimum corresponded approximately to the 
period just before puberty in the two cases. 

Tlius, in girls we get a startlingly low factor between the ages of 9 
and 10, while in the case of boys we get a less well-marked decrease 
in the factor between the ages of 12 and 13. 



HEALTHY SICK CHILDREN. 

Le Grand Kebr, M. D., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
{New York MedicalJournal, June 21 , 1913.) 

Health is a relative term. Common usage is such that we speak 
of one who is healthy as one free from disease. Tlie Standard Dic- 
tionary includes this as its definition. To be sick brings forth visions 
of disease or injury, but not necessarily so, because there are innu- 
merable instances in which one feels sick or incapacitated and still 
remains free from disease. Only recently we have been apprised 
of instances in which dissolution took place and a careful autopsy 
failed to reveal disease of any organ, and the cause of death was un- 
assignable. It is possible to be sick and remain free from disease, or, 
in other words, ' there are healthy sick persons. This is pecuharly 
true of childhood, during which functionating is so susceptible to 
influences from within and from without. 

This is a decade in which more than in any other efficiency is bemg 
made a prominent part of all activity; along all fines efficiency is 
emphasized. ITie time places a responsibifity upon the physician 
which he can not afford to shirk either from a social or an economic 
standpoint. In childhood especially we should be concerned, not 
with disease alone, but with the maintenance of every organ in per- 
fect condition. Even this is not suflBicient; it is good as far as it goes, 
but it does not go far enough. Perfect condition ot every organ goes 
a long way toward the continuance of efficiency and the successful 



HEALTHY SICK CHILDEEX. 135 

resistance of disease. But pt rfect organs are not absolutely essential 
to the continuance of good health, or even to the maintenance of the 
normal resistance of disease. A child may have one or more organs 
diseased, and yet remain in better condition than the child who has 
every organ perfect. And why ? Because perfect functionating of 
an organ is far more important and necessary to life than mere per- 
fection of structure. There must be coordination and cooperation 
between the several parts if efficiency is to be maintained, and the 
failure of one or more organs to act in harmony with the others is suf- 
ficient to make the child feel sick, although there be no disease 
present. Shall we disregartl perfection of structure ? By no means, 
but we have the habit of emphasizing it beyond its importance, and 
it is time that we gave the proper value to perfect functionating also. 
For the child of these times physiological living is exceedingl}^ 
important, and from a large experience with children the writer is 
convinced that normal efficiency is maintained and strengthened by 
physiological hving. Physiological living will mean something dif- 
ferent for each child, and in the same child may differ with the differ- 
ent periods of childhood. This is independent of the effect of the 
varying activities and influences which modify each period. To the 
infant it means mostly eating and sleeping; to the older child, play 
and unrestrained activities of mind and body; to the young person, 
the acquisition of knowledge and the pursuit of pleasure. Tliis life 
must be lived in harmony with personal and individual pecuUaritics, 
whether they refer to sleep, to diet, to mental effort, or to physical 
accomphshment. No two children are exactly alike, and what will 
help one may harm another. It is thereiore impossible to lay down 
more than the most general rules. But one general rule must be 
observed, and that is that the life must be lived in a manner to con- 
duce to the harmonious action of all of the several organs, and to 
haA^e this a consistent action and not by spells; to promote a (con- 
tinuance of perfect functionating of each organ and to have this 
accomplished as the result of habit, rather than of mental effort upon 
the part of the child. One thing is certain, that any scheme that 
aims to improve the efficiency of children is doomed to early and cer- 
tain failure unless it is based upon the physiological fact that the 
pursuit of pleasure is a perfectly normal and commendable attribute 
of this period of life. And pleasure is not a matter of minutes or 
hours; it must be adapted to individual needs. The writer trusts 
that he has made it clear that the healthy sick child is not the victim 
of disease, or even of conditions that are associate<l with disease, 
although the latter may some time be the case, but is a subnormal 
individual who usually gets scant attention because his need is not 
emphasized by pathological changes. 



136 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

In the treatment of these chihh'en there is demanded considerable 
patience to determuie the exact fault, and considerable judgment as 
to how that fauh. may be corrected, because it is always and essen- 
tially an mdividual problem for the physician. There is always a 
need for the parent's intelligent cooperation, and this can be secured 
only by an explanation of just what we are aiming to accomplish. 
In addition, it may be necessary to adjust the child's diet to indi- 
vitlual needs and administer such stimulants or tonics as are clearly 
indicated. In the great majority of cases the dietetic fault is either 
a deficiency of fat or the ingestion of food that undergoes putrefactive 
changes readily, or there may be a combination of the two. In 
giving a tonic the writer has found that it is nearly always desirable, 
if not absolutely necessary, to combine with it very small doses of 
tincture of digitalis, for this seems better than anything else to in- 
fluence a sluggish or disturbed chculation and enJiance the value of 
the selected tonic. This experience has extended now over several 
3'ears. Despite aU that we may do, some of these children do not 
respond to any treatment until they are placed in bed and kept 
there for at least a week or 10 days, and this fact is an important one 
to remember when we are not meeting with immediate success. 

It is not the large things in medicine for which we are commended 
or condemned, but the little things, the details. The public expects 
us to do the larger things, but our knowledge of disease has often 
made us unmindful of the things that lead up to it, and familiarity 
with the complaints of the adult has perhaps led some to a contempt 
for their statements in regard to their children. If, however, the hint 
thrown out by the writer this evening is persistently heeded, the 
army of healthy sick children will be reduced materiall}'-, and some 
ph^'sicians will in time gain a reputation for accomplishing what the 
public will term "marvelous improvement" in children whom their 
colleagues disregarded because they did not present definite disease 
for treatment. 

MEASURED FEEDING FOR OLDER CHILDREN. 

AVm. R. p. Emerson, M. D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Titfis Medical School, Boston. 
{Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 15, 1911,.) 

The feeding of infants hrs become an art made possible by per- 
centage feedmg of milk and other foods, the constituents of which 
have been determined with almost absolute precision. Indeed, 
exactness has been carried to such a degree that sometimes the 
])hysician's judgment is led astray by laboratory analyses. In the 
case of older children this condition does not obtain. In fact, food 
is prescribed by the physician in most indefinite terms, or else not 
prescribed at all. Such expressions as, "Give the child good, nour- 



MEASURED FEEDING FOE OLDER CHILDREN. 137 

ishing food, and plenty of it," or else "Be sure the child does not 
take anything indigestible" dispose of the whole question. Some- 
times the physicians may ease his conscience by adding, "Not too 
many sweets and no tea or coffee." It seems superfluous to state 
that this method of dealing with the diet of the growmg child is a 
poor one, but it is met with so often that it demands most serious 
attention. Someone has well said, "Why do physicians exercise so 
much care in prescribing drugs that are administered only occasionally 
and so httle care in prescribing food which is taken daily?" This 
neglect of the proper supervision of the feeding of older children is 
responsible for many serious diseases of early life and especially for 
many disturbances of the nervous system that are most difficult to 
remedy. 

For the proper feedmg of the child, both physician and parent 
should have an adequate knowledge of food and food values. Three 
principal methods are in use for measuring food. In one, all food is 
divided in portions of 100 grams and tables are made out for the cal- 
oric values of each portion. This method is not readily adopted by 
either physician or parent, as it requires a mental readjustment of 
values, which is a serious obstacle to its success. We buy food by the 
ounce or pound. All infant feeding in this country is by ounces. 
The change into other standards of measurement renders the method 
impractical except for laboratory work. A second method consists 
in adoptmg the ordinary serving as a unit of measure. This method 
is incorrect, because what is an ordinary serving for one person is not 
so for another. This method also lacks an important factor present 
in the other two methods — namely, that of comparison, which is a 
great aid to memory. The third method, proposed by Irvmg Fisher 
in 1906, is called the caloric per cent method. Prof. Fisher prepared 
tables indicating the amount of food necessary to furnish 100 calories 
of food value, such amounts being used as standard portions. For 
example, one slice of bread has a value of 100 calories: also one pat 
of butter, or the lean meat in a lamb chop, or 5 ounces of milk, or one 
slice of bacon. These units or multiples of units represent very closely 
the amount ordinarily taken at one serving, so that food can readily 
be served according to this plan. It gives at first hand compai*isons 
that help fix food values in the memory, the knowledge of a compar- 
atively small number of which is sufficient to cover all our needs in 
any particular case. Sufficient information can be given in a short 
conversation to enable a person to raise or lower his diet 500 or 600 
calories daily, which is an amount sufficient to cause a gain or loss in 
weight as desired. 

For a child who is 6 to 14 years of age, 10 to 20 pounds under weight, 
and who continues his usual occupations, between two and three 
thousand calories of food per (hiy arc necessary for proper gain. 



13^ THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

Ilaviilg, then, a practical measure of food values, in order to makj 
a child gain or lose body weight, the following steps are necessary: 
In the first place, we must secure the cooperation of the child. This 
can be obtained by what Dr. Morton Prince calls painting pictures. 
All girls want to be attractive and beautiful. They also want to do 
as other girls do— dance, swim, and play tennis. Every boy wants 
to be athletic. The desire to play baseball and football can always 
be aroused in him sufficiently to cause him to do almost anything to 
gain a good physical condition for that purpose. Next, there must 
be a sufficient control of the patient by parent or other person actmg 
"in loco parentis'' to secure a record of food taken and a regular 
report at stated intervals. 

The preliminary record is of importance in this method of feeding. 
First, it shows how much food is habitually taken; second, it shows 
the kind taken; third, and more important still, it shows what the 
child likes and dislikes, making it possible to retain such foods in the 
diet as are agreeable to the child, simply substitutmg others for those 
that should not be taken, thus working along lines of leas-t resistance, 
a most important factor in successful feeding. In the case of delicate 
girls, likes and dislikes, aversion to form, taste, or smell, or associa- 
tions of certain foods with unpleasant events may be almost insur- 
mountable obstacles in securmg proper nutrition. Their appetites 
are fickle, leatling them to live almost wholly on carbohydrate food, 
the proteid being far too low for proper growth. Cause and efi'ect 
form a vicious cycle often made evident by this simple preliminary 
list. 

The 4S-hour record may also show mistaken ideas of parents as 
regards feeding. They frequently exhibit a certain pride in thmkmg 
that what does not agree with them will not agree with their chikh-en. 
^Mistaken ideas of food values may lead to the total exclusion from 
the diet of many important articles of food. 

Having from this 4S-hour record a knowledge of the kind of food 
taken and its amount, it is an easy matter to incretise or decrease the 
24-hour intake hj simple changes. 

Such changes do not force the child to take too much food at any 
one meal, and therefore there is little danger of causing indigestion. 
In fact, in following deUcate children with measured feedmg I have 
seen no case of indigestion result. Children under weight seem to 
have a remarkable ability to digest food, taking as high as 3,500 cal- 
ories without digestive disturbances. While, on the other hand, in the 
case of children who are overweight, symptoms of indigestion disap- 
pear in a remarkable manner with a diminution of the day's ration. 

Measuied feeding shows almost invariably that a child without 
orgajiic disease is underweight because he does not eat enough and 
oveiweight because he eats too much. It is a far too common occur- 



COLD BATHS AND SLEEPING PORCHES. 139 

reiice to find children taking tonics, transported to different climates, 
given all kinds of treatment to make them gain in weight, when a 
measurement of their food shows they are taking from 1,000 to 1,400 
calories daily, an amount too small for them to possibly gain unless 
actually confined to bed. 

In health the question of a proper proportion of protein, fat, and 
carbohych'ates, namely, that of a balanced diet, needs attention only 
in a general way, as taste regulates this in most instances. For 
example, bread, which represents protein and carbohydrate, requires 
butter (fat) to make it palatable. Meat, composed of fat and protein, 
requires potato (carbohydrate) to please the taste. So the combi- 
nation of bread and butter, meat and potato, bread and milk, rep- 
resent physiological needs that taste recognizes and controls. 



COLD BATHS AND SLEEPING PORCHES. i 

A. Morgan MacWhinmie, M. D., Seattle. 
{New York MedicalJournal, Apr. 18, 1914.) 

The morning cold bath was not only a fad, but became a rage for a 
number of years. It is still followed by many as a most admirable 
procedure for tonmg up the nervous system; and so is the morning 
glass of whisky. Cold plunges are very much in evidence, even at 
the present time, m athletic house swimming pools and baths. In 
England the cold bath is very much in vogue, almost to the stage of 
fanaticism. It is often related that so and so broke the ice daily, 
when necessary, in order to obtain his cold plunge. If it were possi- 
ble to measure the shock to the human mechanism and the extra 
work thrust upon the individual, wliat a change of sentiment would 
immediately take place! 

No thought is given to the fact that the human body is a piece of 
mechanism which will stand but a given amount of strain. No 
greater shock was ever transmitted to this mechanism than we see 
at the swimming pools at a temperature of 70° F. This temperature, 
in itself, if contmued for too long a period, adds more work to the 
internal organs. But for this to be followed, as we ordinaiily see, 
by a hot shower and then by a cold shower, is the most abominable 
practice imaginable. 

It is not to be wondered at that we see so many nervous systems 
wi'ecked ; it is from nothmg more or less than overstimulation. True, 
many persons are able to withstand this for a while, but the over- 
stimulation is followed by depression, which must be counterbalanced 
by an overaction or regeneration through an increase of the physio- 
logical processes; metabolic changes of all the internal organs and 

1 General title of article: " Two of the Present-Day Fads." 



140 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDBEN. 

their secretions follow. This, in turn, moans a large consumption 
of food in order to take the place of the losses. 

The physiological processes of the. various organs are capable of 
doing a defmite amount of work. Such -work is governed by the 
amount, as well as the character of ingested material, and by the 
capabilities of these organs to produce the necessary conversion, or 
by their power and that of their secretions to convert this latent 
energy of fuel to usefulness. 

Fresh air never harmed any individual when taken under proper 
conditions; and it is necessary for healthy existence. In this day 
we hear much about fresh air; this has resulted in the establishment 
of numerous sleeping porches, so called. Sleeping in the open air, 
under proper conditions, is to be commended; but under the con- 
ditions we ordinarily see, it is to be severely condemned. 

Upon mvestigating 100 sleeping porches in this vicinity, the fol- 
lowing conditions were found to exist: In 96 cases the sides of the 
sleeping balcony were partially protected from the wmd and rain 
by a tarpaulin or some other material. Two had no protection what- 
ever, and one was inclosed with glass windows which could be thrown 
open horizontally at night on retiring. This was the only one that 
could be closed m the daytime, and had hot-water radiators connect- 
ing with the boiler in the cellar that kept the bed and its covermg 
as warm all day as the rest of the house. In 98 cases the bed, mat- 
tress, linen, and covers were exposed all day to the dampness of the 
atmosphere. Only 46 had tarpaulin to protect the bedcovers from 
the moisture. It is needless to say that this covering was insufficient 
for proper protection. 

On interrogating the persons who occupied these sleeping porches 
the answer was that they foimd a considerable amount of dampness 
throughout the covers and mattress. A number found it necessary 
to warm the bed by hot flatirons; others used an electric pad. The 
nervous system should not be subjected to the shock which damp- 
ness produces, especially at night when we find our physical forces 
at their lowest ebb. The body must in all these cases furnish heat 
enough to warm and practically dry out the bed covers or linen before 
the individual is able to go comfortably to sleep. This again makes 
it necessary for all the physiological forces to work more than is 
natural at that time of night, in order both to dry out the bed clothing 
and to keep the body warm. 

A chill is quite frequently the result, and it is some little time before 
normal equilibrium is established. This will not harm such individ- 
uals as are robust and able to overcome the shock; but" there are 
those who are pale and anemic, and not so robust — persons whose 
physiological forces are not so easily aroused to excessive work, and 
are able to mahitain only their daily physiological processes without 



OPEN AIR SCHOOLS. l41 

being called upon for any additional strain in the form of drying beds, 
mattresses, and covers. When such people occupy sleeping porches 
as described, their physiological forces fail to exert themselves to do 
the additional things called for. The mevitable result is a lowermg 
of the bodily resistance to the point where attack is easily made by 
the various diseases. 

The suggestion offered for sleeping porches is that they be so ar- 
ranged as to be completely protected from the weather. Doors 
should be large, so that the bed can be kept in the heated room during 
the enthe day. When ready for the night, it should be wheeled to 
the sleeping porch, thus obviating the disadvantageous conditions 
previously described. 



RECENT DATA IN REGARD TO OPEN-AIR SCHOOLS.' 

John V Van Pelt, A. D. G., A. L. A., Former Professor in Charge, College of Architecture, Cornell Univerni'j. 
{Interstate Medical Journal, April, 1914.) 

I have sent out inquhies to about 200 open-ah schools. These are 
situated in 86 different cities, and I have had answers from about 90 
of them. 

I find that, of the total number of schools in the country, about 10 
per cent are for normal children, 75 per cent for anemic children, and, 
m some cases, for those that are predisposed but with no marked 
symptoms of the disease, while 15 per cent are for tuberculous chil- 
dren. The last-named cU vision includes a certain number of schools 
that are for bone and gland tuberculosis without admitting any cases 
of pulmonary tuberculosis. 

While it is advantageous for social economy that there be pre 
ponderance of schools for anemic and incipient cases over those 
for cases in which the advance of the disease has become marked, it 
seems regTettable that there should not be an even larger proportion 
of schools for normal children. 

Although a number of those that are subnormal or weakly have 
undoubtedly been so from infancy, or on account of very early lack 
of nourishment and care, there is a marked proportion that retro- 
grade during periods that occur after they enter school. Just as care 
of the anemic and predisposed children lessen the number of those 
advanced in tuberculosis, so the open-air school for the normal 
would doubtless greatly lessen the number of those who would become 
anemic and develop incipient tuberculosis. Probably one reason that 
the proportion of schools for normal children and for anemic is so 
markedly in favor of the latter is that the movement is in its infancy, 
and the medical profession has made more effort for invalids than 

1 General title of article: "Open-air Schools in their Relation to Pulmonary Tuberculosis." 



142 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

educators have for normal cliildren. I liave no doubt that this pro- 
portion is rapidly changing. 

Another interesting comparison that has been shown beyond a 
doubt by my canvass is that there is a larger proportion of schools 
having no heat in the classrooms than of those having classroonxs 
somewhat warmed. In other words, 57 per cent of the schools are 
entirely without classroom heat, and only the remaining 43 per cent 
are what have been termed *' low- temperature rooms." In some of 
the latter, the heat is allowed to be turned on up to a limit of 65° F., 
which is unusually high. It is probable that the number of schools 
excluding heat is increased above what the figures indicate on theii- 
face, by the fact tliat California and a certain number of Southern 
States have rooms where heat would be unnecessary, even from tlie 
standard of those who believe in a "low-temperature" room. 

From the descriptions I have received of the schools, it is apparent 
that some of the classrooms that are considered outdoor or open- 
window rooms, have windows only on one side; inadequacy of this 
provision is evidently recognized by the majority. 

A large number of the schools for defined cases of pulmonary 
tuberculosis are in sanatoria, and an opinion expressed by the officers 
where recognized or advanced cases of tuberculosis are excluded — 
namely, that "a school is no place for such a case," may be very 
reasonably admitted, if by "school" we mean only places of instruc- 
tion for cliildren who are not tuberculous. It would be a pity, 
however, tliat no place of instruction be provided for well-defined 
cases of tuberculosis, and the children forced to remain m unhealthy 
tenements, while they might be taught and furthermore be cured 
instead of (h-agging on through a short number of diseased and con- 
taminating years to a premature death. 

Although my data are not entirely complete on this pomt, I 
should say that a large proportion of the schools furnish the children 
with some additional food, and a number of the schools firrnish a 
dinner and two luncheons. In New York City a luncheon was 
furnished up to the present year, 1913-14, but has not been furnished 
this year. I find that in a few schools where no food is furnished, 
there exists a strong feeling that none should be provided. Dr. 
Walter W. Koach, of Philadelphia, voices this in his report to me. 

In Boston another system prevails. The children are encouragrd 
to bring a luncheon with them, and additional food of some land 1-; 
provided at a small cost. In certain schools, they are requu-ed to 
procure something hot — soup, chocolate, etc. 

Just as superalimentation is one of the most important factors hi 
stemming the advance of tuberculosis in the individual when under 
treatment as a patient, so it is for those in the early stages who are 
predisposed or tuberculous, and in school, instead of in a chnic or 
sanatorium. 



RESPIRATION OF EXPIRED AIR. 143 

As we saw in the theoretical (Usciissioii of this subject, outdoor life 
will bring about gi-eater power of assimilation and greater need of 
fuel supply. 

It is difficult to say just where paternalism should be excluded, 
and it would seem wiser, in the case of all children where the disease 
has announced itself in any way, to forestall a greater expense in the 
sanatorium or hospital by supplying requisite nourishment in 
anticipation. 

Finally, I have found that in a few schools there is lack of medical 
supcn-vision. For normal children such supervision is not so impor- 
tant; but I do not believe that even the ordinary school should be 
without regular medical inspection, and when it becomes an opcni air 
school, such supervision should never be dispensed with. Careful 
comparisons of the weights, gain in hemoglobin, and gain in mental 
power of the children, should be recorded and filed for comparison. 

It would be of great value if more experiments, ranging over long 
periods of time, could be made in emulation of those made by Dr. 
Roach and in a few other districts. If such were instituted in differ- 
ent parts of the country, so that results in California could be com- 
pared ^vith those in Pennsylvania and New York, control warm-air 
classes being compared with open-air classes, and with "open-window" 
or "low-temperature " classes, all under carefully balanced conditions, 
some certain knowledge could be adduced. 

TiiC most encouraging thing that is shown by the canvass just made 
is the continued growth in number of open-air schools. It !iot only 
means that fresh air in the schools has come to stay, but that fresh 
air in the home and in the communitv will soon be on the increase. 



ON THE RESPIRATION OF EXPIRED AIR. 

Thomas R. Crowder, M. I)., Chicago. 
( The Archives of Internal Medicine, October, 191S.) 

The immediate reinspiration of a portion of our expired air occurs 
quite commonly — so commonly, in fact, that it is an accompaniment 
of respiration during the major part of the lives of practically all, 
I have made the attempt to determine some of the factors controlling 
this phenomenon. The work has included the analysis of some 900 
samples of inspired air. 

[Then follows a discussion of his experiments.] 

The experiments represent only such conditions as are likely' to be 
met with in daily life. With the single exception of the closet, the 
rooms utilized were well ventilated. Many times the air supply was 
excessive. The attempt has been made to determine what kind of 
air is breathed under ordinary and good conditions, rather than. 



144 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. 

what may be breathed under exceptionally bad conditions. It may 
be fairly concluded that when one lives indoors and remains quiet he 
will immediately rebreathe from 1 to 2 per cent of his own expired 
air. When he goes to bed it will be more — from 1 or 2 per cent to 
4 or 5 per cent, depending on the position in which he lies. In some 
of the positions assumed by people sleeping it may even be as high 
as 8 or 10 per cent, and I have once found it 18 per cent in a single 
test, which did not necessitate a position by any means improbable. 
Nor does sleeping in the open insure pure air for breathing. The 
same influences here produce the same relative results that they do 
inside. When one buries his head between pillow and bedclothes 
for the sake of warmth, reinspiration is inevitable, and it is not 
necessarily small in amount. 

[Then follows a discussion of the physiology of respiration.] 
It is commonly, though erroneously supposed, that the good 
effects of efficient ventilation are due to the chemical purity of the 
air. When attention was called to the occurrence of immediate 
reinspiration, it was looked on as a newly discovered source of im- 
purity in the air we breathe. To this previously unrecognized source 
of contamination was attributed much of the failure that has so 
often attended attempts to bring comfort out of ventilating pro- 
cedures, and from this has arisen the "theory of displacement" in 
its application to ventilation. Accepting the old notion that chemical 
purity is a proper basis for ventilation standards, and assuming that 
reinspiration is necessarily harmful, some of the hygienists propose 
to handle the air supplied to a room in such a manner that the ex- 
pired air will be immediately carried away from the face and can not 
be rebreathed. It is asserted that, if the new principle is applied, a 
much smaller quantity of air than is demanded by the older quanti- 
tative or dilution standards can be made to yield hygienic results. 
But smaller quantities of air do not lend themselves readily to main- 
taining the currents that have been shown to be necessary in order 
to accomplish the displacement aimed at. Or, if the necessary cur- 
rents are maintained, and throughout a sufficient area to be effective, 
it becomes a physical necessity to recirculate the air; thus only de- 
laying rather than preventing reinspiration, and reducing the system 
to one of simple dilution, wliich it is the avowed purpose to avoid. 
By actual experiment I know that the plan most widely heralded 
does just this tiling so far as the contamination of the air of a room 
is concerned, and it is improbable that immediate reinspiration is 
materially restricted. The theory of displacement does not suffi- 
ciently take into consideration that all animals possessing lungs 
ventilate them on a very simple principle of dilution; nor does the 
pure-air theory sufficiently consider that the air of the lungs always 
remains higlily contaminated with their own excretory gases, and 



RESPIRATION OF EXPIRED AIR. 145 

that there is such an effective barrier as the dead space against the 
lowering of the contamination. 

If it is derived to prevent reinspiration, ways have been indicated 
by which tliis may be done. The results will be good, bad, or indif- 
ferent, according to the plan chosen; but in no case will the results, 
whether good or bad, depend on the fact that reinspiration is pre- 
vented. Within a wide range of variation in the purity of the air v/e 
breathe (in so far as the purit}^ is effected by the products of respira- 
tion), the respiratory function is perfectly adapted to maintain its 
normal balance. The only apparent effect of rebreathing a little of 
our own expired air is a slightly deeper inspiration. 

But ventilation is not a matter of little consec{uence because of 
this. It is still just as important as it has always been considered; 
the benefits of fresh air and the outdoor life are beyond question. 
But these measures should be carried out in the interest of the heat 
economy of the body rather than with regard to the chemical purity 
of the air we breathe. The good effects of the outdoor air depend on 
its coolness, its motion, and its relative humidity. These physical 
qualities enable it to absorb the heat which is constantly being 
formed in the body, and which must be as constantly removed. 
Air that will take it up rapidly will stimulate healthy functions; air 
that takes it too slowly leads to sluggish metabolism, and if main- 
tained will ultimately result in a low resistance to disease. 

The rigor of a temperate or a colder climate makes of its inhabit- 
ants a house-dwelling race. They very commonly overheat their 
houses, if not by fire and steam, then by the heat of their own bodies; 
and when they do this they complain of poor ventilation, regardless 
of whether the air supply is large or small. Whichever this may be, 
under any conditions that are likeh^ to arise, there will still be oxygen 
in excess of every demand, and the CO2 will still find a ready escape 
from the blood; but in an overwarm atmosphere the body will be 
stagnated and the consumption of oxygen by the tissue cells will be 
decreased. Ventilation is necessary in order to maintain the thermic 
balance of the body and to stimulate its chemical activity; and 
ventilation with cool air is especially desirable. A little extension 
of the dead space beyond the tip of the nose is of no consec[uence. In 
spite of tills extra contamination of the inspired air, the proportion 
of CO2 in the alveolar air will remain a little lower in a warm room 
than in the invigorating cold of the out-of-doors, as has been shown 
by Boycott and Ilaldane. It will remain so, because metabolism is 
reflexly retarded by a warm aerial envelope, the consumption of 
oxygen by the tissues and the production of CO2 by them being 
much less in warm air than in cold. 

That this discussion concerning the significance of reinspiration 
applies only to health}' persons scarcely needs to be added. The 
74418°— 15- — 10 



146 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

Gtipcicity of the lungs may become so restricted by disease that the 
slightest addition to their work is midesirable. But when we learn 
that they are still capable of performing the respiratory function 
with the capacity reduced to so little as one-sixth of the normal, tho 
margin of safety is seen to be a very generous one. 



THE AIR AS A VEHICLE OF INFECTION. 

Charles V. Chapin, M. D., Superintendent of Health, Proiriden-ce, R. I. 
{Journal of the American Medical Auociaticn, Feb. 7, 1914.) 

A vast amount of work has been done to determine the resistance 
of different kinds of bacteria to drymg and their vitality in dust. The 
factors affecting the life of pathogenic micro-organisms outside of the 
body are so numerous that it is not surprising that quite discordant 
results have been obtained by different observers. Certain it is that 
some bacteria, as those of cerebrospinal meningitis, gonorrhea, and 
influenza, die so quickly that their carriage on dust is practically im- 
possible. On the other hand, the resistance of tubercle, typhoid, and 
diphtheria bacilli is sufficient to admit of their floating on dust 
particles. On account of the mechanical obstacles in the way of ex- 
plaining how substances so difficult to reduce to fine dust as feces 
and sputum could be dust-borne, other modes of infection were sought 
for, and in 1897, Flugge showed that infecting bacteria could be car- 
ried in the fine droplets of saliva which are thrown from the mouth 
during loud talking or coughing, but which are absent durmg quiet 
respiration. It had previously been shown that bacteria-holding 
droplets could be thrown into sewer air by the agitation of sewage, 
and this experimental work had perhaps suggested that similar dro{>- 
lets of saliva might be a means of spreading disease from person to 
person. The followers of both Cornet and Flugge inferred much 
more from the work of these investigators than was warranted, or 
than was claimed by the authoi-s themselves. Because Comet's 
guinea-pigs become infected by clouds of tuberculous dust, and 
Flugge's pigs contracted tuberculosis when held a short distance in 
front of a coughing consumptive, one is not warranted in assuming 
that either dust or droplets are, under natural conditions, the chief 
mode of infection in tuberculosis, and there is stiU less warrant for 
such an assumption for other diseases. There is still less reason for 
assuming that, because bacteria are observed to fall on agar plates 
from the air of a room, the air is mfectious, and no reason at all for 
the assumption that because a few diphtheria or tuberculosis germs 
survive drying for three or four weeks, diphtheria or tuberculosis are 
dust-borne diseases. 

The question of dosage in causing disease is an all-important one, 
though it has usually been negloctetl in bacteriologic work on aerial 



THE AIR AS A VEHICLE OF INFECTION. 147 

infection. Winslow, however, appears to have fully recognized the 
importance of quantitative work, and his careful and extensive ex- 
periments on sewer air and on dust and the air of schools and dwellings 
has served to explain much of the contradictory work of other and to 
brmg bacteriologic and clinical observation in accord. Winslow's 
first quantitative work was on sewer air. In 1907 careful experi- 
ments were made by Winslow in this country and by Horrocks at 
Gibraltar. The latter succeeeded in recovering the colon and also 
typhoid bacilli from the soil pipes of the barracks under quite natural 
conditions, and, though the number was not determined, he was be- 
lieved by many to have thus demonstrated the dangerous character 
of sewer air. The number found by Winslow was so small that he 
deemed it necessary to make further observations. In nearly 200 
liter samples of air from the soil piles of various buildings in Boston, 
he found sewage bacteria only four times, and only when there was 
splashmg of sewage at the place and moment of examination. In 
such air as would be likely to escape from a drainage system, either 
from the vent pipe or from an opening into a house, such bacteria 
were never found. Under ordinary circumstances, pathogenic 
bacteria, such as the typhoid or dysentery bacillus, must be far less 
numerous than are colon baciUi. The entire absence of the latter 
from 193 liters of sewer air, taken elsewhere than in the immediate 
vicinity of splashing, shows how slight must be the danger from this 
source. 

Later, experiments were made by Winslow and Robinson to deter- 
mme the extent to which general air infection in an apartment is 
caused by droplet infection. Out of 140 liters of air taken at various 
pohits in the room immediately after from 10 to 50 minutes loud 
speaking by a person whose mouth was infected with B. prodigiosus, 
the bacillus was found seven times. Of 74 liters examined for 
streptococcus salivarius, none were found to contain this normal in- 
habitant of the mouth. The. authors consider that an artificial in- 
fection of the mouth may give too high an index of air contammation, 
while the normal germs of the mouth may be thrown off in smaller 
numbers than are the disease germs from sick persons. The authors 
conclude that these experim.ents furnish ''no basis for a belief that 
tuberculosis or any other disease is contracted to appreciable extent 
through the inspired air" and are "in harmony with the conviction 
now generally gaining ground that aerial infection of any sort is a 
minor factor in the spread of zymotic disease." 

StiU more recently Winslow has made quantitative studies of acid- 
forming streptococci in New York City schools. He says: 

It is well established that acid-forming streptococci are among the most abundant 
forms in the human mouth, while they are absent from sources which have not recently 
been exposed to human or animal pollution. The numbers of these organisms in 



148 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEl^. 

schoolroom air were found by Prof. Baskerville aud myself in i^reliminary experiments 
a year ago to be quite small. We then found among 30,000 colonies isolated from 750 
plates, exposed in schools with v^rindow ventilation, only 10 mouth streptococci. 

In the present study in the examination of a total of 868 cubic feet of air, we found 
52 mouth streptococci, or 6 for every 100 cubic feet of air. 

A child breaths less than 100 cubic feet of air during an average school period, and 
these mouth streptococci must, of course, be far more abundant than pathogenic forms. 
At a rate of four or five mouth streptococci per day, the chance of ingesting pathogenic 
bacteria from the air is seen to be a very slender one. 

Although Wmslow found so few of the bacteria of human sahva in 
the air of schoohooms, on another occasion in various schools in this 
city ho found them in dust to enormous numbers, even up to 100,000 
in a single gram. This shows that the presence of germs in indoor 
dust, representing as it does, long-continued precipitation, is no indi- 
cation of the number floating in the air, and it indicates the v/orthless- 
ncss of the deductions which have often been made as to the danger 
of air-borne infection, from the mere demonstration of the presence of 
disease bacteria in dust. 

Wliile bacteriology has given us facts instead of theory as to disease 
causation and has made a science of sanitation, bacteriology alone 
can not solve aU our problems. The study of micro-organisms, 
pathologic findings, animal experiment and epidemiologic observa- 
tions, must aU be utilized and harmonized to solve the problems of 
disease transmission. It is for us to trace the effect which modern 
research has had on the old belief that ptactically all the infectious 
diseases are air-borne. 

[Then follow discussions of typhoid fever; cholera, dysentery, and 
diarrhea; aseptic surgery; malaria and yeUow fever; typhus fever; 
smallpox; plague; pneumonic plague; Mediterranean fever; in- 
fluenza; pneumonia; scarlet fever, diphtheria, measles and w^hooping 
cough; chicken-pox and rubella; tuberculosis; anthrax.] 

After this review a summary scarcely seems necessary, or even a 
formal conclusion. We have seen that a number of important dis- 
eases, formerly considered exclusively air-borne, have been shown 
never to be such. There is little evidence that, among the diseases 
which commonly occupy our attention in this part of the world, aerial 
transmission is a factor of importance. In most it is, under ordmary 
conditions of home and hospital, a negligible factor. For tuberculosis 
alone is there evidence that air-borne infection is a factor of moment, 
but the last word has not been said as to the etiology of this disease. 
We may be sure that the sewer-gas bogey is laid, the notion that dust 
is a dangerous vehicle of every-day infection is unsupported, and that 
mouth spray is usually effective only at short distances. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

A PTEW METHOD OF DETERMINmG THE DUST IN AIR AND IN FRESH- 
AIR SCHOOLROOMS. 

John B. Todd, M. T>., Syracuse, N. Y. 

{Nav York McdicalJourrMl, Feb. 2S, 191J,.) 

After many experiments the following method has proved satis- 
factory in giving a j^ositive objective answer to the question of how 
much dust there is in the air: A canton-flannel disk 2^^ inches in 
diameter is placed in a receiver which has a round opening 1 inch in 
diameter. Through this, by means of a suction pump, 200 cubic feet 
of air are drawn. On removing the canton-flannel disk we have the 
dust record. For the purpose of standardization a scale of 10 grada- 
tions, from wliite to black, has been made. The pump used was a 
rotary quadruple bellows pump from a Melville Clark player piano. 
Mr. Morgan Sanford, of the local station of the United States Weather 
Bureau, standardized the apparatus and found that 200 cubic feet 
of air are drawn through the apparatus in 23 minutes. The pump 
used is very efficient and noiseless in operation, but it is too heavy. 
I am working out one that will be portable. 

I am satisfied, since I have used this objective method of dust 
determination, that we have greatly underestimated the effect of 
breathing dust as a cause of ill health and disease, and I hope to see 
the time when it will be as essential to make a dust record of the air 
a patient breathes as it is to take blood count and pressure. I have 
found that it reveals dust conditions of the air that many times were 
entirely unsuspected, but, when once detected, the source of the dust 
can generally be determined and the means to exclude the dust 
devised. 

Many times in schoolrooms in which the concUtions seemed ideal 
very dark dust records would be obtained. Generally a muddy play- 
ground would account for the dust, mud being brought in upon the 
children's feet, when the warm air of the schoolroom would quickl}^ 
convert it into dust. The old methods were to clean out the dust with 
dust cloths and vacuum pumps. The dust records enable one to 
locate dusty places and conditions and suggest methods of prevent- 
ing dust. Prevention is a nobler function than cure, so the new 
words mil be, Iceep out tJie dust, and the standing of schools in dust 
eUmination can be kept on score cards by means of the dust-record 
scale. In that way principals and janitors will be spurred on to 
greater efforts in maintaining a high record for freedom from dust. 
The educational value of this way of living hygienically in the schools 
will react upon the homes and entire community. 

It is generally the custom to close the school and fumigate when 
cases of contagious disease occur among the pupils. It would bo a 
much greater sanitary practice to scrub the floors, walls, and ceihng, 
to make them absolutely free from dust. 



150 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

I have been making a study of air conditions, both in fresh-air 
(screened windows) schooh'ooms and rooms ventilated in the con- 
ventional way. The fresh-air schoolrooms are rooms in which the 
lower sash is raised in four or five windows and the opening fitted 
with a wood frame covered with medium-weight unbleached sheeting. 
The room in which the experiment was first tned had five 36 by 40 
inch windows facing the east. Steam pipes extended across the room 
under the windows, and a hot-air inlet, 30 by 30 inches, was on the 
north side, midway from the floor to the ceiling, with an exit opening 
of the same size near the floor. In the morning before school opened 
the room would be warmed ])y hot air driven by a fan. When school 
began this hot-air inlet would be closed and all the windows opened, 
so that there would be 50 square feet of open window space covered 
\\dth the screen. The cold fresh air would diffuse slowly into the room 
and would be met by the hot air rising from the steam pipes, so that 
there were no perceptible drafts. Children sitting within 4 feet of 
the open windows all the winter days experienced no inconvenience 
whatsoever. Tlie temperature of the room was maintained at 68° 
to 70° F. as easily as before the screens were used. There are two 
reasons for this: First, glass is a great conductor of heat and cools 
the bad air in a room very rapidly, while cotton conducts only one- 
twentieth as much heat; second, if the air is being slowly diffused 
into the room there can be no heat loss from radiation or conduction 
through the screens, and as it takes no more heat units from the steam 
pipes under the windows to raise the temperature of the air being 
slowly diffused into the rooms than it would to heat the same air by 
the heating coils in the fan room the use of the screens is a clear gain 
of the heat loss by radiation through the glass of the windows. 
Another economy obtained from the use of the screens is the saving 
of power and attendance. 

After the screens were installed in this room no more cases of faint- 
ing occurred; hacking, coughing, and restlessness disappeared; dis- 
ciphne was easier to maintain; and the children did better work. 
The windows were up during all kinds of weather; the coldest day of 
the winter the thermometer was at zero at 10 a. m., wliile it was at 
70° F., with 50 square feet of screened opening in use. The principal, 
janitor, and all the teachers were at first incredulous, but frequent 
observations of the conditions soon had them all asking for screened 
windows. The idea has spread to other schools, and whenever the 
screens have been properly constructed and installed the improved 
air conditions have been ideal. A ciitical examination of the ideal air 
conditions in these fresh-air rooms reveals a scientific basis. In the 
fii'st place, drafts are currents of air with velocity enough to be per- 
ceived, and if the air is cold they are uncomfortable or painful. The 
screens are covered with cloth heavy enough to prevent any per- 



DETEJ:iMIiS'IiS{(J Tiiii DUST IX Alii. 151 

ceptible draft. In fact, it is a permeable membrane which breaks up 
the air into currents of infinitesimal size and of low velocity, but to 
obtain any ventilation under these conditions the area of opening 
must be very lai^e; so I put 50 square feet to the room, which is 
nearly double the area of the inlet opening to the fan which is sup- 
posed to furnish air for 16 schoolrooms, an assembly hall, etc. 

Repeated humidity tests have shown that it is practically the same 
in these fresh-air rooms that it is out of doors, which confirms Ho])ler 
that it can be obtained as easily by open mndows as by a humidistat. 

Believing that carbon-dioxide tests are not worth the trouble of 
making, the carbon dioxide has been ignored. 

One would think that by filling the lower sash of all the windows in 
a schoolroom with cloth screens the proper lighting would be decreased, 
but, instead, the lighting is really improved. The light rays are 
broken up by the cloth and a soft diffused light results, which is more 
comfortable to work by than the glaring direct light that comes 
through glass. 

The fresh-air rooms are absolutely free from odors, which are so 
closely associated in our minds with schoolrooms and institutions. 
Even the smell of stuffiness which can hardly be called an odor is 
entirely absent. It is, as one teacher has described the air conditions, 
"like a continued day in June." 

Next to the confined, stuffy, bad air in schoolrooms, the dust in 
the air produces the most insaidtary condition. In ordinary fan- 
ventilated schools the dust that is brought into the room gradually 
accumulates, the room acting as a settling tank, while only a smaU 
portion is carried out by the vent. I have found in the screened 
fresh-air rooms that this dust is entirely eliminated. This dust elimi- 
nation is accomplished in two ways. First, the fan inlet being closed, 
no dust is brought into the room by the fan; second, the air that is 
diffused into the rooms through the screens \^ filtered air and dust 
free. The cloth on the screens becomes discolored very much after a 
time and should be changed for a new cloth. I have worked out a 
form of screen in which the cloth can be changed with little trouble. 
Wire gauze and cheese-cloth window screens have been used a great 
many years, but they have proved unsatisfactory in cold weather 
because they produce cold drafts. 



COUNTRY SCHOOL SANITATION. 

Fbancis G. Blair, Slate Superintendent of Public Inslruf-tion, Springfield, PI. 
(Illinois MedicalJournal, August, 1913.) 

I am to speak to j^ou on one special item of work which is now being 
done by the department of public instruction for the improvement of 
sanitary conditions in the rural schools of lUinois. The plan is a 



162 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDEEN. ■ 

very simple one and can be veiy briefl}' stated. The law makes the 
siaperintendent of public instruction the supervisor of all the common 
and public schools of Ilhnois. It makes hmi the adviser of school 
ofhcers. On this legal authority the superintendent of pubhc instruc- 
tion has appointed two comitry school supervisors who have entered 
on a campaign to better the physical and instructional conditions of 
the one-room country schools. Two diplomas are prepared by the 
State department, one for a standard one-room school and the other 
for a superior one-room school. The standard diploma is awarded 
to any school which meets a certain minimum requirement. This 
minimum standard requirement as it relates to the physical and 
sanitary conditions is as follows: 

Ysird and outbiiildings: 

1. Ample playground. 

2. Good approaches to the house. 

3. Two well-kept, widely separated outhouses. 

4. Convenient fuel houses. 
The schoolhouse: 

1. House well built, in good repair, and painted. 

2. Good foundation. 

3. Well lighted. 

4. Attractive interior decorations. 

5. Good blackboards — some suitable for small children. 

6. Heated with jacketed stove in corner, or a room heater and ventilator in corner 

or basement furnace which brings clean air in through the furnace and removes 
foul air from the room. 

7. Floor and interior clean and tidy. 

8. Desks suitable for children of all ages, jjroperly placed. 

9. Sanitary water supply. 

In order to secure the superior diploma the following additional 
requirements must be met: 

Grounds: 

1. Playgrounds at least one-half acre and kept in good condition 

2. Some trees and shrubs. 

3. Well or cistern and sanitary drinking appliances. 
House: 

1. Separate cloakrooms for boys and girls. 

2. Lighted from one side or from one side and the rear. 

3. Heated with basement or room furnace, which brings in pure and removes 

foul air. 

The country school supervisors go into the counties on invitation 
of the county superintendent. They visit the schools and examine 
personally the physical equipment. Along with the diploma goes a 
label which is prepared by the department of public instruction for 
the door of the schoolhouse. The label has printed in gold on a black 
background ^^ Standard School" or ^'Superior School," in such type 
that it can be read at a distance of from 200 to 300 yards. This 
appeal to local pride has been far more successful than was antici- 



SCHOOL SAXITATIOX, 153 

pated when the plan .was formulated. The supervisors have awarded 
diplomas to over 1,100 standard schools. Four diplomas have been 
awarded to superior schools. These diplomas are renewable for five 
years. Each year there must be an mvestigation to see whether the 
school has been kept up to the standard. If in any instance the 
pupils, teachers, or directors grow indifferent and allow the equip- 
ment to deteriorate, the diploma is withdrawn. It is believed that 
this plan not onty improves the condition in the schools which are 
able to meet the requirements and receive the diploma, but it goes 
farther and improves certain conditions in many schools which can 
not meet all the requirements. There are hundreds of schools which 
can not receive a diploma so long as the present building remains, 
which have from the suggestions offered improved some conditions, 
say, the character of the water v>^hich the children drink, or it may be 
that they have been able to change the seats, or the heating plant, or 
to comply with one or two of the requirements set forth. This work, 
it will be seen, is entirely optional on the part of directors from the 
district and results from a desire on their part to follow the sugges- 
tions of those in whom they have confidence and to place their district 
on an equality with surrounding districts. 



A METHOD OF OBTAINING PROPER SCHOOL SANITATION. 

Louis Becker, M. D., Knoxville, 111. 
(niinoi'' McdwalJournal, Auguat, 1913.) 

A number of years ago, while on the school board of my home town, 
I had to do with the building of a school building. The school board 
in this case went mto the sanitary features very fully, and especially 
into those of ventilating and heating. Careful anemometer tests 
under aU conditions of weather showed that we got 1,500 cubic feet 
of fresh air for each pupil every hour as a minunum. This air was 
taken from outdoors, warmed, and introduced into the rooms through 
openings 6 feet above the floor, with suitable exits at the floor line. 
The rooms were so arranged that they could be heated and lighted 
properly. We also, while in the business, changed the old school 
building, built in 1875, so as to supply 1,200 cubic feet of fresh air 
each hour to each child of a room full. In time it became necessary 
to replace the heating system in the newer building, and the school 
board, composed of our best business men, knowing nothmg of ven- 
tilating problems, replaced the indirect heating with direct; carefull}^ 
removed the fresh-air room, bricked up the openings for transmitting 
the warmed air for the rooms, until now the only chance they have 
to get fresh air is to open the windows occasionally and freeze the 
pupils nearest the window, then shut them down and wait until the 



154 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

air becomes noticeably foul. Now our children are suffering becauss 
good-intentioned men did not understand and should not be expected 
to supervise sanitary problems. 

At the same time the radiators in the warmuig flues in the old 
building began to leak and the janitor was told to shut them off. 
To prevent admitting cold air to the rooms he was obliged to close 
the ventilating windows, and now this building has no ventilation 
whatever. We certauily have no moral right to enforce compulsory 
school attendance on children during their most sensitive years in 
our town. A child has a right, above everythuig else, to have health- 
ful surroundings. From an educational standpoint it is certainly not 
good practice to give him instruction in hygiene in a classroom which 
violates important hygienic rules. The child who sees a proper 
regard paid to cleanliness in its best sense, to light, to pure air and 
water in the school will be apt to carry the lesson home. Proper 
instruction, together with proper example m our schools, has a tre- 
mendous effect on the homes from which scholars come. In no other 
one subject will its effects be as noticeable as in those of proper 
sanitation by example. 

At one time I thought that the solution of these difficulties would 
be in having a physician on every school board. Such a condition, 
however, is difficult to bring to pass, and considering the ignorance 
of many physicians as regards the practical apphcation of sanitary 
needs in the case of schoolhouses, I am sure it would not be a success. 
Some time ago I thought of making pubhc suggestion that State 
authority should suj^ervise the sanitary arrangement and safety 
apphances in all new buildings and in all old buildings undergoing 
changes. I supposed this idea was original, but there is nothing new 
under the sun. Two bills introduced in the State legislature are 
now being considered which purpose to solve the problem in this 
way; making the plans of school buildings subject to approval of 
the State architect, the State board of health, and the State fire 
marshal. 

If my experience has proved anything at all it is that no set of 
men in any ordinary town can be left with the problem of erecting a 
school building that may be safely attended by your child and mine. 
Proper sanitation is and always will be the most important thing 
about a school building. 

Very fortunately our one-room country schools can have suitable 
heating and hghting without much expense, and I have been aston- 
ished at the number of country schools around my home town which 
have complied with most of the ideals. Pure drinking water and 
suitable water-closets are much more difficult to obtain in these 
small schools. 



THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 155 

CONCLUSION. 

I can not conceive of any really serious objection to compelling 
the submission of all school plans, whether for new buildings or for 
changes in old buildings, and to a certain extent school equipment, 
to proper State officials who by training have an adequate knowledge 
of school needs. 



CLEAN BOOKS.' 

WiLUAM R. Reiotck, Phfladelphia. 

(American Journal of Pharmacy, January, 19H.) 

The process of killing germs in books by disinfection, although 
recommended, especially by those who have the disinfectants and 
the apparatus for sale, may be dismissed as of very little use, on 
account of the impossibility of the gases penetrating into the interior 
of the volumes, and in no case, even if the entire surface is reached, 
will they remove all of the spores. 

Both steam and hot-air sterilization are of little value for books, 
because the first will cause the paper of the books to absorb the 
moisture, swell, and deform; while in the case of hot-air sterilization, 
the heat would, by drying up all the moisture in the books, have the 
same effect, besides in the case of books bound with leather, cause 
the leather to stretch and often break. The heat also will absorb 
the moisture, and the paper will become dry and brittle, lessening 
the life of the volume. 

At present I do not believe that there is any method which may 
be depended upon to entirely ehminate the possibihty of diseases 
being contracted through fomites, such as books and the hundreds 
of other articles in daily use, constantly being transferred to a sick 
room, returned and ready for another victim. I believe that some 
of the State boards of health are now beginning to recognize the 
futihty of quarantining and disinfecting. Instead, they are spending 
all their energies in improving sanitary conditions as to the necessity 
of cleanliness and the proper care of health. If persons using books 
or any other of the numerous articles named as conveying germs will 
use precautions as to the degree of cleanliness of the article they 
handle, and will take proper care of their health, they need have no 
fear of contracting any disease by means of a book or any other 
article. 

The same care that should be given to keeping the books clean 
should also be insisted upon for the employees and readers of libraries 
and all places where dust may accumulate. 

' (^leneral title of article, " Books as a Source of Disease." 



156 THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

A visit to almost any library will generally show, by placing the 
hands in back of the books upon the shelves, that there is a great 
deal of dust lying there. Very few hbraries, even those recently 
erected, have had the vacuum system, which seems to be almost 
perfected, installed. Instead of making the reader wash his or her 
hands before using a book, it is very difficult for one to obtain access 
to the lavatory to wash his hands even if he so desires. In fact, 
there are some hbraries which have no lavatories at all for the pubhc. 

Books are often placed on shelves in stacks, poorly ventilated and 
hghted. * * * Not disinfectant plants, but sunlight, fresh air, 
the elimination of dust, and the proper cleanliness on the part of the 
emplo.yees and readers, are the means, not only to prevent books 
from becoming fomites, but also the people from becoming carriers 
in this age of prevention 



Il^DEX 



Adenoids, public-school children, New York City, 61-63. 

Air, as a vehicle of infection, 146-148; respiration of expired, 143-146. 

Alcoholism, propaganda against, 117-118. 

American Academy of Medicine, recommendations regarding teaching of hygiene, 
114-115. 

American National Red Cross, first-aid department, 119. 

Athletics, college, cardiac effects of immoderate, 127-130; effect of competitive on 
scholarship, 120-124; relation to health, 124-127. 

Baker, S. Josephine, Hypertrophied and adenoid vegetations in public school chil- 
dren in New York City, 61-63. 

Bean, R. B., The eruption and decay of the permanent teeth, 53-54. 

Becker, Louis, A method of obtaining proper school sanitation, 153-155. 

Blair, F. G., Country school sanitation, 151-153. 

Blanchard, Wallace, The State care of crippled < hildren, 35-37. 

Blindness, prevention, 48-49. 

Body length, comparative growth, 133-134. 

Books, clean, 155-156. 

Boston, school children, comparative gi'owth in chest circumference and in body 
length, 133-134. 

Boy Scouts, activities, 119. 

Brown, S. H., Care of the eyes of school (hildren at Moorfields, London, 43-44. 

Bureau of Mines. See United States Bureau of Mines. 

California, State Medical Society of, questionnaire regardmg athletics, 123. 

Caa-diac disease, 26-28, 127-130. 

Caries, causes of dental, 54-56. 

Catarrh, nasal, prevalence in United States, 69-72. 

Chapin, C. V., The air as a vehicle of infection, 146-148. 

Charnley, Constance, Some observations on the conditions and treatment of stutter- 
ing, 90-95. 

Chest circumference, comparative growth, 133-134. 

Chicago, treatment of crippled children, 36. 

Chorea, investigation of eases, 101-103. 

Claxton, P. P., letter of transmittal. 7. 

Clubfeet, treatment. See under Crippled children. 

Cold baths, 139-141. 

Coolidge, E. D., The causes of dental caries, 54-56. 

Crime, physical basis, 110-111; schoolhouse as a contributor, 112-114. 

Crippled children, early history of the care and treatment, 37-39; State care, 35-37. 

Crowder, T. R., on the respiration of expired air, 143-146. 

Curtis, F. G., Shall we close the schools during epidemics, 15-17. 

Cutaneous affections of childhood, 20-22. 

Dawson, H. P., Symptoms of rheumatism in childhood, 28-30. 

Deafness, preventable, 72. 

Delinquency, relation of physical defect, 108-110. 

Delinquent bovs, examinations of nose and throat, 63-64. 

157 



158 INDEX. 

Dental clinics, school, 57. 

Dickson, Frank D., Results of joint tuberculosis in a series of 200 cases under ol)serva- 
tiou for five or more years, 34-35. 

Diseases of children, age and seasonal, 14-15. 

Dunn, C. H., Cardiac disease in childhood, with special reference to prognosis, 26-28. 

Dust, in schoolhouses, 149-151. 

Ear, diseases, treatment, 72-77. 

Ehrenfried, Albert, Flat foot in children, 41. 

Elliott, E. C, The schoolhouse as a crime contributor, 112-114. 

Elmira, N. Y., reformatory activities, 121. 

Emerson, W. R. P., Measured feeding for older children. 136-139. 

Epidemics, closing of schools, 15-17. 

Epilepsy, children, study of etiology, 106-108. 

Esmarch, Prof, von, and first aid to injured, 118-119. 

Eyes, care of, school children, 41-52. See also Blindness. 

Fairbanks, A. W., A study of the etiology in 175 epileptic children, 106-108. 

Fauntleroy, C. M., General symptoms and significance of hookworm disease, 23-25. 

Feeble-mindedness, school children, 103-106. 

Feeding, measured, for older children. 136-139. 

Feet, deformity, and treatment, 39^1. 

Ferris, H. C, The child's health and beauty as influenced by the teeth, 57-58. 

Filipinos, eruption of teeth, 55. 

First aid in schools, teaching, 118-120. 

Fishberg, Maurice, A study of the child in the tuberculous milieu. 30-32. 

Fisher, Irving, On feeding of children, 137. 

Forsyth, David, On medical inspection of infants and children under school age, 10-12, 

Freudenthal, Wolff, Why is nasal catarrh so prevalent in the United States? 69-72. 

Gay, G. W., Vaccination, 19-20. 

Germans, eruption of teeth, 53-54. 

Germany, school dental clinics, 57; treatment of cripples. 37-38. 

Girard College, examinations of nose and throat, 63-64. 

Gordon, Alfred, Propaganda against alcoholism, 117-118. 

Greene, H. P., Preventable blindness^ — a challenge to the professions, 50-52. 

Griffith, J. P. C, Neurotic, psychasthenic and hysterical children, 87-90. 

Halsey, R. H., Oral sepsis, 56-57. 

Harris, CM., Some important factors in the conservation of hearing, 72-75. 

Hawes, J. B., Tuberculous bronchial glands in children, 32-34. 

Hawthorne School, New York City, examinations of nose and throat, 63-64. 

Heart disease, effects of immoderate college athletics, 127-130. 

Heck, W. H., introduction, 9-10. 

Henderson, C. R., The teaching of sex hygiene in the public schools, 115-117. 

Herrman, Charles, The age and seasonal incidence of diseases of children, 14-15. 

Hookworm disease, 23-25. 

Hudsou-Makuen, G., Hypertrophied tonsils interfering with the action of the palate 
and causing defective speech, 66-67. 

Hygiene, teaching in public schools, 114-115. See also Sex hygiene. 

Hysteria, in children, 86-90. 

Illinois, treatment of trachoma, 48-49. 

Infants, medical inspection, 10-12. 

In^als, E. F., What relation, if any, have the faucial tonsils to pulmonary tubercu- 
losis, 65-66. 

Jackson, Edward, Teaching of hygiene in public schools, 114-115. 

Jassen, Dr., on outline of rules of dental care and conservation, 57. 

Jones, William M., Medical inspection of children in rural schools, 12-14. 



INDEX. 159 

Jordan, Edwin O., Rules for preventing typhoid fever, 25. 

Kerr, Le Grand, Healthy sick children, 134-136. 

Kinch, C. A., Teaching of first aid in schools, 118-120. 

Klingmann, Theophil, Nervous children, 84-87. 

London, care of eyes of school children, 43-44; medical inspection of infants and 

children under school age, 10-12. 
Love, J. D., Importance of regulated rest and play for school children, 130-132. 
McClanahan, H. M., ^Vhy does the operation for removal of adenoids frequently fail 

to relieve mouth breathing, 67-69. 
McCready, E. B., Feeble-mindedness and school children, 103-106. 
McMurtrie, D. C, Early history of the care and treatment of cripples, 37-39. 
MacWhinnie, A. M., Cold baths and sleeping porches, 139-141. 
Macy, Mary S., Temperament in children, 77-79. 
Makuen, G. H., A study of 1,000 cases of stammering, with special reference to the 

etiology and treatment of affection. 95-98. 
Massachusetts, vaccination, 19-20. 
Measles, prophylaxis of, 18-19. 
Medical inspection of schools, 10-14. 

Middleton, W. S., The cardiac effects of immoderate college athletics, 127-130. 
Mouth breathing. See Adenoids. 
Myopia, correction, Ai-Al. 

Nance, W. O., WTiat the State can do to prevent blindness, 48-49. 
Nasal respiration, treatment to restore normal, 59-60. 
Nervous children, treatment, 79-90. . 

New York, age and seasonal incidence of diseases of children, 14-15. 
New York Board of Education, lecture courses on first aid, 119. 
New York City, public school children, treatment of adenoids, 61-63. 
Newkirk, H. D., The relation of physical defect to delinquency, 108-110. 
Newlin, Arthur, Investigation of 100 cases of chorea, 101-103. 
North Carolina, medical inspection of rural schools, 12-14. 
Nose and throat, operations, 59-71. 
O'Brien, J. J., Squint and its correction, 47-48. 

Ogilv\% Charles, Weak feet and postural deformity in children, 39-40. 
O'Malley, Mary, Some facts relating to the hygiene of nervous children, 79-84. 
Open-air schools, recent data, 141-143. 
Oral sepsis, 56-57. 

Orthopedic surgery, modern methods, 36. 
Play, regulated, 130-132. 
Porches, sleeping, 139-141. 

Power, H. D'A., The effect of competitive athletics on scholarship, 120-124. 
Psychasthenic children, 87-90. 
Psychogenic epidemics in schools, 98-101. 

Putnam. Helen C, Teaching of hygiene in public schools, 114-115. 
Reinick, W. R., Clean books, 155-156. 
Rest for school children, importance of regulated, 130-132. 
Rheumatism, symptoms. 28-30. 

Risicy, S. D.. Is the percentage of myopic eyes diminishing, 44-47. 
Ruhrah, John, The prophylaxis of measles, 18-19. 
Rural schools. North Carolina, medical inspection of children, 12-14; sanitation, 

151-153. 
Schalek, Alfred, Cutaneous affections of childhood, 20-22. 
Scholarship, effect of competitive athletics on, 120-124. 
Schoolhouse, as a crime contributor, 112-114 : dust in air, 149-151. 
School hygiene, 151-153. 



160 INDEX. 

School sanitation, method of obtaining proper, 153-155; riiral schools, 151-153. 

Sex hygiene, teaching in public schools, 115-117. 

Shumacker, Leopold, The cardiac effects of immoderate college athletics, 127-130. 

Skin diseases, children, 20-22. 

Sleeping porches, 139-141. 

Smallpox, effects of vaccination, 19-20. 

Speech, defective, 66-67. 

Squint, coiTection, 47-48. 

Stammering, conditions and treatment, 90-95. 

Strauch, August, Psychogenic epidemics in schools, 98-101. 

Stutteiing, conditions and treatment, 90-95. 

Sweden, school dental clinics, 57; treatment of crippled children. 38. 

Teeth, care and treatment, 53-60; eruption and decay, 53-54. 

Temperament, in children, 77-79. 

Thompson, J. A., Combmed dental and nasal treatment to refit ore normal nasal respira- 
tion, 59-60. 

Thi'oat disease.s, treatment, 59-71. 

Todd, J. B. , A new method of determining the dust in air and in fresh-air schoolhouses. 
149-151. 

Toeplitz, Max, Five hundred examinations of the iiose and throat in an institution 
for delinquent boys, 63-64. 

Tomlmson, W. H., Preventable deafness, 72. 

Tonsil operation, 64-67. See also Nose and throat. 

Traclioma, treatment, 48-49. 

Tuberculosis, bronchial glands in children, 32-34; children of Hebrew parents, 
30-32; joint, 34-35; relation of faucial tonsils to pulmonary, 65-66. 

Typhoid fever, rules for preventhig, 25. 

United States Biu-eau of Mines, work, 119. 

Vaccination, Massachusetts, 19-20. 

Van Pelt, J. V., Recent data in regard to open-air schools, 141-143. 

Ventilation, effects of good and bad, 143-146. 

Wells, W. A., The measurement of auditory acuity, 75-77. 

Westmhister Health Society, work, 10-11. 

Willard, De F. P., Results of joint tuberculosis in a series of 200 cases under observa- 
tion for five or more years, 34-35. 

Williams, W. C, Comparative growth in chest circumference and in body length, 
133-134. 

Wisconsin, University of, cardiac alterations in athletes, 128-129. 

Witter, J. W., The physical basis of crime from the standpoint of the probation officer, 
110-111. 

Wright, S. E., A re\'iew and the present status of the tonsil operation, 64-65. 



BULI.ETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note.— ^Vith the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will l^e sent free of charge upon 
application to the Comniissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, b*l niaj' be had of the Superintendent of Uoeumcnts, (iovern- 
ment Printing Office, "Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be mado 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 190(j for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. Anna T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Ilailmauu. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, ignii. Edward C. Elliott. \o cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty II. I5ailey. 

♦No. 2. List of pubhcations of the United States Bureau of Education, 1807-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. I'helps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H . Arnold . 10 cts. 

*No. 0. The apprenticeship system in its relation 1 industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 1.5 cts. 

♦No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to pubUc education, Oct. 1, 

190<>, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
♦No. S . Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State 1907-s. r>cts. 

1909. 

♦No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hafiley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
♦No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 4. The teaching stafl of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of exp&- 

rience, salaries. Edward L. Thomdike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 190S. 
♦No. 0. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 18r)7-1907. 
♦"No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
♦No. 9. Bibliography of education for 190S-9. 10 cts. 
J\o. 10. Education lor efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

♦No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State. 190.S-9. 3 cts. 

1910. 

♦No. 1. 1 he movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the x'ublic schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. Jets. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Ed\\ard C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1807-1910. 
♦No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles .\. Kofoid. 50 cts. 
♦No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 ct.s. 
tNo. li. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 
74418"— 15 11 I 



H-' BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATIOjST. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. WiUiam C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

kStates. 5 cts. » 

tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
fNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
fNo. 11. Bibhography of child study for the yeai-s 190S-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementaiy and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary- schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State la-\\s and regulations. Harlan Updegraff . 20 cts. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

*No. 1. Acourseofstudy for the preparation of nual-school teachers. F. Miitchlcr and W.J.Craig. 5ct3. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 0. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 
*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andi'ews. 5 cts. [Later pubUcation, 1913, No. 12, 10 cts.) 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William 11. Kilpatriek. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics. No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
*No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
*No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper 5 cts. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. II. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and nu'al common-school statistics. Harlan Updegralf and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. PubUc and private high schools. 

*No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. .lolinstou and I. G.Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. III. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 20. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
*No. 28. Cultivating school groimds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Chas. Cioldzil'.er. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
*No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. .Vrlhur MacDonald. 5 cts. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of cuiTent educational pubUcations, January, 1913. 
*No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 ct.^. 
*No. 3. The teaching of modern langiiages in the United States. Charles II. Handschin. 15 cts. 
*No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. Febriiary, 1913. 



BULLETIX OF THE EUEEAU OF EDUCATION. IH 

*No. C. Agricultural instnietion iii high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jcnks. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*Xo. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

fNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

tNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

fNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the elTiciency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

*No. 14.' Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bildiography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

*No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
*No. IS. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Drcsslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons lor the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

fNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia cluli at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociologJ^ E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States. Georg Kerschenstciner. 

5 cts. • 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
tNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

*No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and puVlicists. 5 cts. 
*No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
*No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 ctS4 

No. 32. Educational survey of Monlgomery County, Md. 

tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
*No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies.' 10 cts. 
*No. 35. A list of b'ooks suited to a high-school iilirary. 15 cts. 
*No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. lOets. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational puldications, October, 1913. 
*No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmarm. 
*No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
*No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental nira! school at "Winihrop College. H. S. Browne. 
*No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational puljlications, November, 1913. 
*No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

*No. 47. Teaching material in Government pu! dications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
*No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and Adams Phillips. 

No. 50. The Fitchliurg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 
*No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 ets. 
*No. 52. Sanitarj- schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. .53. Monthly record of current educational puiilications, Decembicr, 1913. 

No. .54. Consular reports on industr'al education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, Oct. 1, 1909, to Oct. 1,1912. James C. 

Boykiu and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William KJnox Tate. 

No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 

No. 58. Educational system of niral Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State luiiversities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

♦No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsorj- school attendance. 
*No. 3. Monthly record of current educational puiilications, February, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfleld. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindersartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-i)roject jilan of vocational agricultural education. R. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational pul>lications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1914. 
*No. 12. Uural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. Vi. Present status of drawmg and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Farnum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational pulilications. Index. 

No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The pulilic school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United f-fates. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary riu-al schools. H. W. Foglit. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 

No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Klizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monaliau. 

No. 31. Report on the worlt of the Bureau of Fducation for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. \\'ih ICarhart. 

No. 3 !. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home — Part I. General statement. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part 11. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the liome — Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. B.R.Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boy? in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publicatioiis, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. OberhoUzer. 

No. 47. Citv training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN. 1915, NO. 5 WHOLE NUMBER 629 



ORGANIZATION OF STATE DEPARTMENTS 
OF EDUCATION 



By A. C. MONAHAN 

SPECIALIST IN RURAL SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION 
BUREAU OF EDUCATION 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFHCE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAT BE PROCURED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

10 CENTS PER COPY 

V 



CONTENTS. 



Letter of transmittal 5 

State boards of education 7 

Composition of boards 12 

Digest of laws relating to State school administration boards 13 

State superintendence of public instruction 27 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officers 29 

State departments of education staffs 40 

3 



' 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Department of the Interior, 

Bureau of Education, 

Washington, November 17, 1914. 

Sir: As State appropriations for education increase, the feeling of 
need for a better organization and a more effective supervision of 
the schools of the States grows, and with it grows also the interest 
in the organization and functions of State boards of education and 
the selection and duties of the chief school officers of the States and 
the equipment of their offices. Many requests come to this office 
for information on these subjects. To assist in answering these as 
fully as possible, I recommend the publication of the accompanying 
manuscript. Organization of State departments of education, as a bulle- 
tin of the Bureau of Education. This manuscript has been prepared 
at my request by A. C. Monahan, specialist in rural school adminis- 
tration in this bureau, on the basis of studies made by Wicldiffe Rose 
while he was serving as general agent of the Peabody Education 
Fund, and a compilation of laws made by William R. Hood of this 
bureau. 

Respectfully submitted. 

P. P. Claxton, 

Commissioner. 

The Secretary of the Interior. 

5 



ORGANIZATION OF STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION.^ 



STATE BOARDS OF EDUCATION. 

The trend of educational development is toward the State board 
of education as the administrative head of the educational system. 
In 37 of the 48 States in the United States there are State boards of 
education with functions relative to the public schools; in one other, 
Minnesota, there is a State board with functions relative to the 
public high schools only. In the other 10 States, namely, Alabama, 
Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Nebraska, New Hampshire, Ohio, South 
Dakota, Wisconsin, and Wyoming, there are no such boards. 
Two of these 10, Nebraska and Iowa, have State boards known as 
boards of education. The Nebraska board has charge of the State 
normal schools and has no other functions; the Iowa board has 
charge of the State institutions of higher education, including nor- 
mal schools, but has no functions concerning other schools. The 
State boards in Arkansas, Pennsylvania, and Vermont have been 
created by laws enacted within the last four years. During the same 
period the boards in Arizona, California, Delaware, Georgia, Idaho, 
Indiana, New Jersey, North Dakota, Oldahoma, and Washington 
have been reorganized in the interest of greater efficiency as a result 
of State legislation. 

Composition of the State hoards of education. — The composition of 
the boards in the various States is shown in the accompanying table. 
The ex officio members and the appointed or elected members are 
shown separately. The present trend in educational development is 
toward a board composed of persons who have some knowledge of 
the business which they are to administer. This does not mean 
necessarily persons actually engaged in educational work; it means 
that the tendency is away from the ex officio boards composed of 
State officers without special educational qualifications. 

It will be noted that, of the 37 States with State boards of educa- 
tion, 8 still hold to boards made up of ex officio members, officers at 
the State capitol. These are Colorado, Florida, Kentucky, Missis- 
sippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oregon, and Texas. These ex 
officio boards are usually composed of the governor, the superin- 
tendent of public instruction, and one or more other State officers, 
such as the secretary of state, attorney general, treasurer, auditor, 

> In the preparation of the descriptive part of this bulletin free use was made of a manuscript written in 
1913 by Wicklifle Rose, director of the Rockefeller Foundation International Health Commission, to ac- 
company the tabular exhibits (revised up to date) relative to the State boards of education and chief 
State school officers contained in the report of the Illinois Educational Commission published in 1909. 

7 



8 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION— ORGANIZATION. 

lieutenant governor, or comptroller of the treasury. In Colorado 
and Kentucky the governor is not included; in Texas the State 
superintendent is not included. Nevada has an ex ofiicio board that 
includes the president of the State university. In 10 other States 
the board is composed of ex officio members at the State capitol and 
members appointed at discretion by the governor. In 5 States the 
boards are appointed by the governor and include no ex officio 
members; these are California, Delaware, Massachusetts, New 
Jersey, and Vermont. The New York board contains no ex officio 
members, but is elected by the legislature. In 17 States the gov- 
ernor is a member of the board. 

It will be noted that in 7 States the president of the State univer- 
sity is ex officio a member of the board of education. In 5 States 
the president of the agricultural and mechanical college is also a 
member, and in 4 the normal schools are represented on the board 
ex officio by one or more members. Indiana designates the super- 
intendents of the three largest cities of the State as ex officio members. 

Appointment of the State hoard of education. — The drift is toward 
appointment by the governor, with restrictions to guard against 
arbitrar}^ use or abuse of the appointing power. Of the 28 States 
with State boards containing appointive members, 22 leave the 
appointment with the governor, subject in some cases to approval 
by the State senate; 4 States leave the matter with the State legis- 
latiu-e; 1 State puts it to popular vote; and in 1 State it is left to 
the State superintendent. 

The appointed or elected members are composed both of men 
in educational work and men not in educational work. In 4 States 
only men engaged in educational work may be appointed; in 7 
States a certain number of men not engaged in educational work 
must be appointed; in 12 States the laws do not specify, but leave 
the matter with the appointing body. The tendency seems to be in 
these States to appoint both educational men and others. These 
appointments may be made with the view of getting men adapted to 
the position, or the appointments may be controlled by political 
interests. The pressure of pubUc sentiment is growing steadily in 
favor of appointment on the basis of fitness for the service. 

Appointment by the governor, under proper restrictions, has a 
threefold merit: 

(a) It recognizes the executive head of the State as responsible to 
the people for the efficiency of every department of the public service. 
It tends to make the board responsible to the pubhc. 

(h) It centers responsibility where it can be definitely located. 
When the general assembly elects it is difficult to locate responsi- 
bility. 



STATE BOARDS OF EDUCATION. 9 

(c) Requiring that appointments be made from an eligible list, or 
in some other way throwing proper definite limitations around the 
appointing power, provides against abuse and protects the board 
from undue political interference. It is doubtful if it is ever advisa- 
ble to make the governor a member of the board. 

Size of the board, term of office, and mode of retiring. — The tendency 
seems to be toward a board composed of from 6 to 11 members, 
holding office from 6 to 8 years, and retiring in small groups. The 
boards vary in number from 3 to 13; 6 States have as few as 3, and 
1 has 13. These smallest numbers are all made up of ex officio 
members and may be regarded as representing the passing type. In 
14 of the 37 States the boards range from 8 to 12 members. This 
group includes a striking number of strong boards, as in Arizona, 
Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Tennessee, and 
Vkginia. A board of this size is not too large for worldng efiiciency 
and is sufficiently large to create continuity of service, provided it is 
organized to retire in small groups. 

In case of all the ex officio boards the term of office is fixed and is 
usually 2 to 4 years. In such boards members usually retke of 
necessity in a body. In 16 of the 37 States appointments are from 
4 to 6 years, inclusive, with members retiring in small groups; in 2 
States the term is for 7 years, in 1 State 8 years, and in 1 State 12 
years. 

In several States the number of members of the board and the 
number of years in the term are the same. In West Virginia, Penn- 
sylvania, Arkansas, and New York there are, respectively, 5, 6, 7, 
and 12 members, 1 retiring each year; in Maryland and Tennessee 
there are 6 members who retire in gi'oups of 2 every second year. 

The board with a reasonably large membership (8 to 11), with 
appointment for long term of service and so organized that its 
members will retire in small groups, has two strong points in its 
favor : 

(a) It guarantees that degi'ee of continuity in service without 
which no business can be successfully administered. 

(6) It can not be changed to satisfy the caprice of any individual 
or to meet the political needs of any one State administration. The 
educational service is thus protected against undue political influ- 
ence without being relieved of responsibility to the public which it 
serves. 

Duties and powers of the State hoards of education. — The preference 
seems to be for a State board made responsible for the efficiency of 
the whole State system of education and clothed with full admin- 
istrative power. In extent of duties and powers these boards as 
now constituted vary all the way from near zero to complete control 

75088°— 15 2 



10 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATI0:N^ OEGAlSTIZATIOlSr. 

of the State educational iaterests. The Michigan State board, out- 
side of its duties in control of the State normal schools, has little 
power except in granting teachers' certificates; the New York State 
board has supervision of all educational agencies in the State. Be- 
tween these two extremes the other State boards have all degrees 
of responsibility and power. In 14 States, for instance, the boards 
not only have functions concerning the elementary and secondary 
schools, but are trustees of the State normal schools. These are 
Connecticut, Idaho, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, 
Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, 
Tennessee, and Vermont. In 4 States the boards are trustees of the 
State universities. These are Florida, Idaho, Montana, and Okla- 
homa.^ 

This diversity in the present status of boards is confusing enough, 
but the tendency in recent legislation is overwhelmingly toward 
centering in the State board larger responsibility and powers. Idaho, 
for instance, which until 1912 gave the State board power only to 
grant aad revoke certificates, now gives to it general control of all 
educational work in the State, even succeeding the powers and 
duties of the trustees of the vState institutions of higher education. 
The Georgia Legislature has recently enacted a law reorganizing 
the State board of education and giving to it greatly enlarged 
powers. The reorganization of the Virginia State board has given 
it almost full administrative power. 

This movement toward centralization has come to its most com- 
plete expression in the New York board. Of the powers of this board 
the Illinois educational commission, in its report issued in 1911, 
says: 

The board of regents of the University of New York ie composed of 12 members, 
who are elected 'by the legislature to serve for a period of 12 years. No officers of any 
of the incorporated educational institutions of the State are eligible to membership. 
There are no ex officio members, but the commissioner of education acts as its execu- 
tive officer. The University of the State of New York is a corporation created in 1784. 
It includes all the incorporated higher educational institutions of the State. The 
State library and the State museum are departments of the university, and the board 
may establish other departments if they are deemed necessary to the discharge of its 
duties. It has power to exclude from membership any institution failing to comply 
with the law of the State or the rules of the board. It has charge of private acade- 
mies and in some measure of the public secondary schools, as well as of all the higher 
institutions. All the powers and duties of the board in relation to the supervision of 
elementary and secondary schools, including all schools except colleges, technical 
and professional schools, are devolved upon the commissioner of education, who is 
elected by the board. The board of New York has power to establish such rules and 
regulations as are necessary to carry into effect the statutes of the State relating to 
education. It cooperates with other agencies in bringing within the reach of the 

1 The principal function of the Montana board is control of the State university, the State agricultural 
and mechanical college, and the State normal school. See p. 18. 



STATE BOAEDS OF EDUCATION. 11 

people of the State, yoimg and old, the largest educational opportunities by stimu- 
lating interest, recommending methods, designating suitable teachers and lecturers, 
and by lending books and apparatus. It establishes in the academies of the uni- 
versity examinations in studies, furnishes a suitable standard for graduation from 
academies and of admission to colleges, and grants certificates and diplomas to those 
who pass such examinations. It controls the whole matter of granting honorary 
degrees and diplomas. The board has power to incorporate any university, college, 
academy, library, museum, or other institution for the promotion of science, litera- 
ture, art, history, or other departments of knowledge. 

Commenting on this tendency to centralize responsibility and 
power in the State board of education, President Butler, of Columbia 
University, says: 

There can be no doubt about the general tendency being strongly toward greater 
centralization. Not only are its advantages quite apparent, but the overwhelming 
current of legislation and of the decisions of the courts is making it imperative. These 
are practically in accord, and are to the effect that in each State the school system is 
not local, but general; not individual schools controlled by separate communities, 
but a closely related system of school^ which has become a State system and is entirely 
under State authority. Local school officials are now uniformly held to be agents of 
the State for the administration of a State system of education.^ 

It has been urged that the New York State board is going too far in 
exercising supervision over private institutions. But it should be 
definitely understood that in a very important sense there is no such 
thing as a private educational institution ; an educational institution 
is by the nature of its function essentially public and should be respon- 
sive to the needs of the public which it serves. Every educational 
agency in the State is a part of the State's educational system and 
should be under the general administrative supervision of the State 
board of education. 

Summary of tendencies. — In the gradual development of a more and 
more effective agency for administering the State's educational 
affairs the trend is toward a State board of education as the adminis- 
trative head of the educational system ; a board composed of men who 
have some knowledge of the business which they are to administer; 
a board appointed by the governor of the State with restrictions to 
guarantee fitness for the service and to guard against arbitrary 
use or abuse of the appointing power; a board composed of from 
8 to 11 members, appointed for a term of from 6 to 11 years, and 
retiring in small groups — this to guarantee that degree of continuity 
in service and freedom from political interference that are necessary 
for effective service; a board made responsible for all the educational 
interests of the State and clothed with full power to administer the 
busmess. 

• Education in the United States, vol. 1, p. 21. 



12 STATE DEPAETMENTS OP EDUCATION — OEGANIZATION". 

Composition of State boards of education. . 





Ex officio members. 


Appointed or elected members. 


S2 
® 

a 

CU 

a 





a 
a 



X 
a 






states. 




i 
■a 

o . 
ftgo 

o 




l§ 
11 

3 


> 

03 

» 

1 


3 bo 

3 = 
.a 8 

■s'i 

a SB 

.§a 




el 

o| 

3 
1 


1 
§ 



3 

<D 
0) 




i 

•a 

5 


i 



3 



ag 




■a 

■a 
1 

a 


,Q 

3 


X! 

1 

in 


Arizona 


1 


.... 




1 


.... 


2 




3 








5 
1 


3 

7 

7 

"5" 

7 

■■4" 
5 
6 
3 

"& 
6 
9 
3 

"s" 
"s" 

5 
12 

"4" 
6 

"g 

6 

7 
6 

"2* 
5 
5 
3 

5 


8 


Arkansas 




7 


do 


8 


California 
















7 


do 


7 


Colorado 




2 

1 


















3 
2 


3 


Connecticut 


1 














5 

7 


State legislature. . . 
Governor . 


7 


Delaware 
















7 


Florida 


1 
1 


3 


















5 
2 
1 
7 
4 
3 
3 
2 


5 


Georgia 










3 


1 
5 
3 


.... 




6 


Idaho 










do 


6 


Indiana 






1 

1 


1 
1 


1 

1 


3 


3 
3 




do 


13 


Kansas 








do 


7 


Kentucky 




2 

1 








s 


Louisiana i 














8 
6 
9 
3 


Governor. . .. 


11 


Maryland 1 














do 


s 


Massachusetts 














do 


q 


Michigan 




1 














Popular vote 


1 
3 
4 
3 
3 


4 


Mississippi 


2 
2 
1 














3 


Missouri 


1 
1 
1 


















4 


Montana 














8 


Governor 


11 


Nevada 
















3 


New Jersey ... .... 












8 
2 


Governor 


s 


New Mexico 


1 


.... 












3 


'12 


do 


2 


7 


New Y ork 












1? 


North Carolina 


1 


6 
2 
















7 
5 
1 
3 
1 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 


7 


North Dakota 










3 
2 


.... 


"4" 




q 


Oklahoma 








do 


7 


Oregon 


1 


1 












3 


Pfinnsylvfiniil 










3 


.... 


3 

6 

7 
6 


Governor 


7 


Rhode Island . . . 


1 

1 
1 
1 


1 
"2 










State legislature. . . 
Governor. 


8 


South Carolina . 
















q 


Tennessee 














do 


8 


Texas 














3 


Utah 






1 






2 








"i 


Vermont 










2 


3 


do 


5 


Virginia 


1 


1 












5 
3 
5 


State legislature. . . 
Governor 


3 

4 

1 


8 


Washington 


1 


1 


1 








7 


West Virginia 










State superintend- 
ent. 


R 























STATE BOAEDS OP EDUCATION. 



13 




14 



STATE DEPAETMENTS OF EDUCATION^ — OEGANIZATION. 






1 -a^ 

m O ft m ' 



ja >,i 






<£ 



I 03 g 



o-S 2 S S 



•-£3 3 
o--g-3 

d 0^ " 

m « ^ S 

J-. <K o a 

^ ^'ri s 



£3^ cjS sct^ 
C3 J3 cJ C a 



o m t- o ■tr a 

-^ C3 <!> (-1 

(C M-T 2 P.-H 
o ■ IS -ti -C w -g 

<B i) o ° " 

i-< -^^ ^ o 



CO 3 (D -M 



S-S S5 t^S o a'-" .t; a 
- •« •;:: 1^ o o M a f* ci 
•"S-c^ ";= a » 3 

w w 3 O"^ oiStf "^ 

.- d 
to c^ 



C O M O " tsi>S O 

•-,-3 wj3(as>"~ 



S"C 






o!-iM>c2'-'-- " 5^ ® 

c3 p-d fe s5 '^ e =! S> •- 
»+.5SS-SSfe5w)5d 

ggd feot^S-g. 

g -^s ffl c3 *^ S 3 •£ ■; 
:oa3'«ooST35^ 

f^2-- t"5 £"C Ow I 



-d CO d 



og-gd 

I S W o 



> o o ^ 



"w H w 2 O ; 
^ O 0-dX5 

5: ,„ 2 i-i r^-; 



m S O 



fl !>.o d 

o _, Wo_'a3 " 

d"^ o 3 o a • 

- -^ S <».„'0 ® 2 
S" 0-3 ?o-^ 
d w m.2 2 



"3 £■« • - o ^ " 

(D & TS CO O r3 
"3 — . ^ _ O I 

.-1 . . O d -W M_ « 

"o-S co'3'3 t- t^ ! 
9 5-2^, oftg 



". ts S ""^ o f^ o s 

,- i2b.Sf<i>:o--c"-B^^ 

j^-S-ti ® 3 S to a 2^ o 
:j3 rf d > o"g o-n 3 a)j3 

i!>©cSda55-^,G^O" 
3p«io.3>-<Oo3tna)t-ico 



_ O Si 

■S •« 3 g 3 .ti -t 

s^>^°|d-; 

?„ d d o „ g 2 = 

s-sgdioot 

C3-M.3 R t> m o c 



§ fl d o 



m fl-f 3 d 

— ' C < (-1 4) 

c! ® 2 >>fl 

0^ Qj.d iM > 

Sd O w O 



t0ii 

is" - ° 3 3 

^■S 3 3.5 
d " oS.2 

w c3 -^ M o, 
d CO co,^ 

rv— . odd 



3 « £?-o " 

•O-d c3 "3 
<U 03 "S 2 

§£o>>f 

m g g .Q o 
g Wrt "^ d to 

©■3(3 o 2 ffl 



M 



•-el 

Eg 

g| 
o.a 

o 



03 p, 

2; 



3 d a 
o J- S 

^ ft<» 
2 o b 



3 » 



a 




■rt 






dd 




ri 




c3 














C) 




c3 


.3 


3 


<0 








d 








ftd 







S-3 2"^ 

«1 -" 
^ -52 3 

:= 2 d-^ 
o 2 — 

~> d 

o d dC 
S a3'° £ 
m > P-o 
> 9 S-d 

O McS d 

O 



.„ '*d a 

® o d •^ 

^ --d 



■a d ■* 

~ O M 

.2 <s5 

ai£-2i4 

o S. 3 d 2 



C3 o'CS 

» S S ^i 






C° 



o ta i3 *^ '5 
O 



^ . " d 2 
— • >- 03.3 a 
>>£ » o 13 

Qj (-. 03 to C3 
5 c3 >- tj-PlN 

Q--. 03 C3 ^ 



c3- 



Bi2 



S'^ 



i-i '-' P< 

<; P< 
*^ d to^-^ 



05rH 



dW 



c3g<' 



M coo 

, ••'o - 

:<;-g . 

w p. 
. ...PO 

. ^ » -M 
jj W . -1 00 

■ogSSi 

■g^co-^b? 



STATE BOARDS OP EDUCATION. 



15 



h o M* p,'i, i X) '5 

Q. «-, O "^ ° S S 'o 
D 2^ "is OjO p, 

■^ ■^i o 1- © a 

I- m b/;-0 o S o S 



2 o c« o > 



fl tu 



ca-a P. 03 
o ^ c a- 



■^ft°^"fe"S 

W= c3 -C -r; c3 o g 
o ^ j_> O n r> c^ 
K c S •- B ^t. 
r2s: g K C i- S M • o =^-=.s: 
gwtl C.-.og^-o<-s^:Sc3o 
c9___2 S-- to S g fl p.~ §'S 

2 o^ii^ ..(3 c aS g S & 



o.g-sj 

— a 
o ? 2 =" 

« P-O fl 






M — O C3 „ 

' — c "^ 5; i^ 

> o oXi o 



ibI p; 



0) I 



C3 1^ ^ 
-I S'-S 
P o c3 

S*t§^ 

s w § 



~— ' 2 

O-S Ci,m £ 
•" -^ o fc 

a .!5 T3 5 is 

m pC J;.P 
S.2::-^ 

5 3 <i> 9 § 



^^8 

0,0 



■ P m ^ 

1 M J; p 



03 
o.b£ 

CU.P 



Sj g 0) 



■O-r; 0.0 oJT) ^ 



C3 






SB 



a>a2 



■^.gss: 



^ p '^.5 S 

U .^2 -r-l A^ OJ t 



i — .y 

't3 P w 



Sec 



.g 

S " o 3 ° >- < 

1 m O oJ g cS p j 

; St P, ^ S g 1 

i .3 ti 2 oJ 03 tj:> 

Q 



p3 c3 

p^a 



£ o p o 

3"-§? 



-JH ''+i w w B o 

p ^J3 a)-; o3M 
43 -ai 



a p- 

p fto p.E* 
OJ c3 P dxi 



3S 



P"3 OT 

«.= -« 
■CJ3 s 
■K"§ 
« in H 
P< U . 

•- P "i* 
t- oC I- 

g Oi g c3 



c3 <u 



w w Q O) 

^"S -P 

M ° >, a « a 



. ^ P g o o 

*^°gi3 s a 



p &p; a 
fl S; 3 oj 

!> g 03*3 S 

c2 g 
P.SJ3 p >< 

D.,P e^^ c3 0^ 



C3^B 



OJ.P > P~ n 

x3fc-Sc3-a° 

+^ p. m ^^ ^ f^ 



, 03 



as 



2 gfe 






K g o m jj 



'a. 



^^- S; O d 



CT3 >> 

,p 03 
3 ~-a 
P^2.S 



.£ o p t> 
p p P o 
.p C a; M 

B-.3^5 



o3.3o'Ao^t'<s 



3 o 3 



P, 


P 3 

3il< 


4J 

s 


"3 









e 



•a 
p 


1 


P 


<i) 


*^ 










T1 


—H 


13 


03 





u 







\ 


6jC 


C3 



S ftp 



C3 oj 



•a^s .>:a 



a) 3 

03-0 : 






P-^ d >- 
^ CO ^ 
OJ m ^ '^ 

3 ^-2 S 
P,ccie<5 o 



°a3J 

d'p, 

id^'a 

5 <u OJ 

SJP d 

! 03 <3 



2 i=! ^.-S J"o 



a-g-3 

^ P o 



p o >. 

2-? ° 
S ^ p, 



w 



d C3 03 
^ "^ <0 

•- ^(N 

P .>> 

O V- CJ 
P.O > 

P..P a> 



2 '- £-=s 

p.!) p,(U 

<5 



P<<u 

<1 






.3 .S 
'Ho do 



o 00 o *-' o o 

.-.-^ i^ 03 tf >> 
2 m o d O' ^ 

■<oS2"c3 o d 

to ^ r— « " CJ C3 

>4 i_o^i3t-i 



--< to 05 M 
■-10" I Jp 
"PS" . 

^_, rj**^ CO O 
• O CO " „ 

pjq aS«iJ 



16 



STATE DEPAETMENTS OF EDUCATION OEGANIZATION. 



i .9 c ■?; *^ a3 !^ g 



R c; 3 S.2 2 ' 



'-i a 






-o t; X o o 



•73 S 
J3 O 



O CD ,„XJ^ 



^'CT3 go 



•^ <D O O c^3 






x; q 



^=_. ft 



lop 



oo|o5i 
— oi2 en !^ 



O p^ S M " a; ^ 
j3 o o; p.'c; "^ £^ 

oj =5 S-p. aj.q S-H 



|-a 






^S§; 



OJ C3 ^ M 
,JD P.g 3 

■Sags 

c • - o t. o s 
flS-g-SI fe-^ 

X3;2— C^ . t,^ 

■3 ti 3 '■*5 •" "3 "3 J:; 

t^ ^,^ O Cr to r— +J 
<D ^H c3^ m±; 

fao3S-^oPc«2 



O o 



^£822 

3 M a m cl ^ S 

OJ O fl^ n 2 "^ r/T 

CD en b ^ *-< 

o Mft>-.g §"-; 



3 O O 



fc< ..cS O g.2 

^ o >»a a ,,- 
"7 ^ o g t. 



1 'ri-o a -ii 



■■- Sc2'2'^^g'«' 



C3 w+j t,*^^ 



£-S5«g 

g g c -S o a' 
P<S o s g ?7 

ga-435p.'^ 

Ph 



=« So 2 ° 

tn CD ci 
. 0-3-M g 

-^ cn a fe 6 

o p o;i X 
-^ o S o o 



C^ S c3 ? " 

a £ "^ tH 

£^2^<D° 



s S3 fti35 a 



2 m — 



£ g a^ 

c S 3-a 
.a s c o 
^- c o ,^ 
« S 2 
fcTcM a"« 



<=> oS 



^S2 






o ft£ OJ3 o 
O 



CD s a-o o -.o 



m'S a) a 
M g ft- 

" -eg 
P 3 te « 

-rt C3^ o Cf 

oS§a£ 



^.a 



(S 



M 






►*H®rtc;«e3 CSS 



S fl =• 

£<=> 
cS D ^ 

I ■ 



73 . 

c d 
S ° 

.ai 

fee 
ft-j^ 

S.3 

■£<:. 
c3S 



:~'3 °o : 
i£.2^2.^ 

:S aj aj c3 

fc5 ftr 

>a2 a."o 

" CD '^Ut 

3£:=cD 

CJ O ' 

«! d 2-u 



O > CD 

o to 

CO Wc3 
CD t£ 

5 >> 

°ga§ 

QJ TO Vh m 







Sr, 








^ 


t.1 


>-. 




a 




ft 




d 



.at5„- . 

OJ C C3 C3 



c^^ 



^ o c3 c3 g 

C - s.^ 5 i-^ > 

^' G o £ -S o 

■go c;.23 to 

.t! *i — r x) c3 



: d tjo CD 5 _: 

O o >iT-l CD c; 

11 Bt3 |.g 

> 5 o c c o 

O ft-^^ C3 CD P< 



O "^ O bcC.O 
(-1 O E" f*- O 






<D"-^ 
■*^ +^ 

ft^^ ^ " >> 

3*5 c.a_j^ 

1.2 ox: =^1 

^ 3 E x; .- o 
o fto: I- ft 
O 



a^j 



ag 



ftOJ 

ft-Q 



a . 


(-< 


as 


> 


ffl >- 


■a 






+3«5 


d 2 


a . 




o £ 




p. J) 


a"*" 


ft-^ 


c:S^i 







— ^tn 



c3— .lO 

d o ■ 



•S.gft 

.S O Pi 



"? 

^^- 

^^ 
'" I 

5 o ■ 
3s: ft 
>,o p, 



S 



STATE BOAEDS OP EDUCATION. 



17 



s^ 



**H 










a 


cS 


1 


t- 


■a 
a 

g 




£ 








Ph 


^ 






6 




"rt 


S 


s 




ft 








n 






ts 


>- 






a 


n 







>> 


o 














a 


x) 


i2 


■M 




43 


£ 










nd 

3 


t-. 









4:: 


^^ 


E 



■•dja 



T3 »r^ 






0aj » 3 
a> o o w 



42 5 

S2g^.g"2«|s ■« 



■e^a 



<u o o -pB--;'. 



11 

ga 

E 2 



2 » 03 OT 



&.as|tl!£.^|.g' 



Q, . . Oj 



ft v:ft 



'rf.i 



s-ofi 



SS32 



T3,_. CO ® W -C ""^ 






to g I 

-is c3 < 



p'i'5"s.2^-Sir«.-oS^'::ag'£ 

a§^S,'§g:<S*§feflSsa-?fei^ 



a5 eg 






3 <? ^ .-t; :e ® -t; 



siia 



g m OS g o 5 ft'o ;5 •« 

Pi 3 b $ ^^x: -g: fl 

4dS'MOCtOO''-''*^"H 

^".SgSBgfl-2-S-a 

.g.SO! ft-S P,S M S O M O W ? , 



a ° 3 



. o o 



■c^1g3.a-2 , 

vj w S 03 c3^ rtO 
O OS^TS.S d S M 

saggS^Sa 

M 0(rt o3-g-gj23 
gftt^-S o g § 3 

S? S O C3 ^ O pj 

g-Q c3 rt 5_g IS >. 
2 2 2 S S rt • - 

4=; S3 b/j/j ,„ -t^ Pi Id 

04=||S'S2^ 

3 2 2?S2 3 



5 a ;i2 

■g _=^a 

d >-;3 
■0 



3 o 
®S0 



a 


■'ii 


T) 






n 









42 

















3 



n3 3 S-a ^ 
d o o'o-3 



_ „ - 2 o 

"S X -^03 

.a « >i . . » 
§<i.ls.a 






5-§a| 

"•9 »■§ 
^••a » =^ a 

£ Wd o C 

S; 3 p, J 03 

P w w w O 






•So 3^ 

a "1^ fl 

|a>§3 



e'3S 
•9gg 

.2 **■ 



o o-g 

.a'-Sg® 

>- 3 2S 

tTwco o 



is 



I. 



4^ 



a 



'-'5 <^ 

O O'T 

-.-ft§ o 

.SfgSS5!3 



75088°— 15 3 



18 



STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 



n m 03 o 3 ^S " "S K 
2 m ftS m a, « > P.V- 






eg Mg o.g o; 



*^ ■"•— 03 O O S 
-o «i2 fe"^ ^.T^ 



o-d a> 






03 „ srtS B^ti o"^T3- 
P o a t3 t, g «^ o ^ g 









5 •-T 

° o LT e -9 S H u » o S 



S;SS?^--nfeb 



g g-9ir^-C o S g o 2 c o 2-s a>"^ o ^ 

Sft^^^'^ScnS.^ c52 p-P-S >"3'd §5 
D^t/.5 8i.2-SSc 



r- o 



f?tiJ 



03 o '■ 
CL.Si OS-; 



w - -^ M "» S " 



03 



S =3 



03 03 d d o m' 

a w».2 ® » 



d gft.2Sd 
£ ® d -3 »-y 

„- _ -tS'OC-r'd — 

S3 o p,.a §55i; ft.S -S-o §;2 



=; So® 
oo3pr2^'^t:;i/5^st/^'-^(--'^'*'XjP'^o3 
« o =3 g g w 05 „T3 3 > o ca — S43-K j:: D 
^"S'-""'SOo3-'=l >_«'S^22rtS!-<raS< 

^ I ^ S °l &-„ 2 2 §5 M-l 1.^2^ si 
o^ ^^-|^ ^fe gS^'-S-S 8S ^1 SS ° 



m^ Old fe 



2 = .2§g 



^g^Sc^^^Saf 



<c S a> 
5 K ft 

c s 

-w c3i2 

o a 

ffl'ea d 



03 ftp.'S 

li'llKl 



&"2b-; 

3^ 1=1 



03^ 
O w R 03 

g g 0-" ^+i-g*^ 

O 



p.| 



S.S 



O 03 



^o 



2g^ 





(S 


« 








03 


2 

d 


0) 






tJ 


<B 


tx 


■n 


,;- 


n^-g 


e 


B 


g 

















03 


ft 










A (>.«> t>.2 

C d"? +^ 
2 fe S 

ft_2 03T3 ^ qj 

d J3 <E:n-S 
I^Tje fti^ ^ 

MC3^c3g5 

.* "go 

fcTt; — r a3 o ■" 

O C C3 £ M d 

« d c S <o a 

O-w MR^ 
O 



;X o 



•a co-l ^- 

O sU ftc3 
S^ i3 >> 



82 
OS S 



!s 



!>'om' 
it^'lft 



a 





is2 




><^;: 
















<5^-: 




rxio 




9fl?lft 


9,9 Tf ft 


go 


s 





i-^-Sftl; 

. ^M ftiS 
03 jJ --S 

d m . _2 ^ 



STATE BOAEDS OF EDUCATION. 



19 



5 -S "^ „;3 f^S «• 

£MW;oMc3ajC.2.g' 
P-i O 



l.S^'a 



tH U( ' .^ U. f^ I 






^ P S fe £ ° 



_ ^ > S.: 

o H to 






less 






— r'ftp P<S o c^ g o b. w? t>>T3 g<2 



ft 5^.; 



03 .t 



^ S S H« rt M ° ft 

j^saftcsiits-sl^^^ 



5 "S ^ b' S « >2 



■SoSg, 



- -" " « s =« s 



(dj3 



531: .a _ C:r3 >>>- 

3g--"S''S'§ft'3.2":*S°3fl^£» M3CSO 

" S^iG'fiBOS — t-jf-oS-wO K,d '^H S® 

ipgft2aSgw^es^mgiaS.2scDmt.i;53.« 



• QJ 0^ O I 

, rt ■- a t- 

! S a » " 

;.2.2o 2 

': 03 ■ 



bcf 



■2S 



<i> 5 2 
o o 

"^ 

o " 

i5 ® 
o 



0-2 03 g^'3 d 
>" iH-a o3 o a S 



csS^l 



S i=^ 'C 2 ® 






® X 03 I 

;■« S ft+ 



w.ao3S 

°.2 ft— 

o-C o d 
o m+J d 



d <i> 

— l-.rrt 

£ a 



3piS 



£ 03 53 M 



d>;>;=^ 

" c8 ca w 

■i^ (D a) o) 
d I- '--> 



t*. 



»•" o2 03 

.2,2 o^ 03 
2"«S-S 

gftSBa 
o 



6 d d "^ 

o o3 03 a> 

d— ? oj -^ 
S,d dM 
•M-t;.d o 
d g«^ 

2S&a 



« en t« o ® 

® oti ftd 



m "^ 3 
g d-3 

g.ss 

o 






=« S ° § ryi 

.2 ft ® 'S ~ 

2 a > . s 



ftS 



O 03 g- 



Sm 



o 

d 


3 


^ 
> 




^ 


fl 


§ 




















.a 


o 


03 






H 


CO 


O 








CJ 


d 


a 




6 












o 


T) 




pQ 




fc^ 










o 


ftft 


fn 


O 









>> 2 S •- *^ "^ 

.a-^§l^ 

3 3"" 

fta 

ft 
03 ir 



£ M S 
o C o 

cod^^B 



^a 

!-. O 

03 *- 
ft]^ 

"3 d 
.2 ta 






, ® 



1 ftC ^ 



0) d 

a a 



fc >> 



'So8 

03 JS © '^S 2 o d n5 



■:3 ffl 2 >> ® S 



:SS 



(il">>d0^3 

W O "ti -*-^ ^ „^ 

ta jP 2 ■- S "^ fi 
ij<g ft> M ® o 
CO => ft '" ,o x: 

d ® c5 03 2 

o 1=15 JC o d " 

S-Sa^^i^ 

O -tJ d -*J W f> CC 

O 



d^5 

ft d 
d is 

O^ O 03 



t3 "-, 



O 03 

« d 



d'tJ 



CD S o3 





^ 








d 
























ft "=3 








&^ 








-nja 




























oT) 






>>® 


>. 




00 


■^ 





^^ 



►n-d ft 
J, o 



2 »■*! 



X r,d oo^ 
a> -*^ o . o> 

^ H ."Ift^dC 
s. o o ft o o 
Is 



20 



STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 



;-t;,o3 -DtS 



U OT ^ O tUSfll 



^ t'? '^ S 03 



"5 

t-t M O 



O O <B 

-go 



'^'=' «■?; o"^ . "Sti S^a 4> 
^^8§°'E-^S§g.g2.2S 



0^ te fc 



" '-' _ o c 
*e lu fl CD 3 
2^ o-d "^ 



§ fl '^ 



i 2 & .i3 ■ 

15 03 O) 






® 53 d 

<B j3 OJ 



® <p " „■ 



d 2 S W>«; 



^(^M t^ ] 



M o3_g-^-Sjq a Ja 

13 £-^ a S^ 



^ v^ — -3 Pi * i3 
i^t.G.2'§-- 

-°.2 g 1 ^ 

io-o^-ga 

g '^ <D <c -S 3 
■2fla5|o 

&0 ^Tj ^-^ 

H+j +jKio^i!-iJe3-i-»Pt 0^ &.3 03.S ts 



|T3 



_^^.,2,S I. 

c3"g o3a>_lSS„M-2oi^ 



■d-a' 



--g^ 



'|a§' 
^gS2 



i.2 2 « «•« £ 



5 ft° 3 "-2 
3 2b'S^S 



'— 


^5+^-^ 






n 






e,ar 
edg 
ons 
tion 




Tl 








-3 o.g 3 


o 






C3 


te-^ o oj 



03 "3 9 a 2 o+j 

Wl HO bo 

§g.p5 8| 

03«o5§ M^ 

;, -rt H ai m -^ t>i 
03>>S. 



o~ o 03 o o ; 



o d t! c! 



A -a 






I " 



' s^ 



03^" 



> Oh 



O 



CQ 



fl £ p^^ S ^ 



?"« 2 



> ^a ill § 

disgciffldoos 

03og)0fljg»_2 

§■3 »S)'^£.2 o 

^ O MC 0.d-w O 

O 



(B p. 



® •-'3 
3,d 



g e o d >. 



d 2'^; 



' b 



la-. 



o 



X3 ».0 

2^3 d d 

td +^— < — ■■ 

E-1 



^ d ^ 
"S «* ® 
M •" o -d 
£■^21-9 
o n o a> 

> 2 ^j- >- => 
03^5 rt » d 

M d2 O'-S 



C3 M 



»-» ft 03 W 



§2 



d-s 

O d'tn'7 
1^ Mg"-; 

t. « K. O 

bP4 



STATE BOAEDS OF EDUCATION. 



21 



Si "^¥ L~ 



1^ £ 2 ps ^r3 ^S >73 : 

"t^-S ®5 *5 ^ i o i 



KB.3o3o-Ci-|K>. OfJ^M-^ 
.9 '55 O m M !- -zi^^-^ >> d 'C 
c-o ".S o mP ffl s S S =« '^'3 « 

g| £-§ g Sf § § ^ §^ g^-s-5 gf g a § s'^.s-s "". 

So "^^ ^ o-^ C S-fl S-S-S « § g S'S OS p. P <» 2 c5-g 

.S^ « g^ g.-S B.-S o £.a o m S-S fl o S 2-S a,- P.S 

. y ^r,^ -^ '^ § ^ r^ 3 ZT ?5 ^^ S't: t;^ t- .^ 2 d ^ -^ 

^ rj h! ^^ -do) Ji;do3odd'-'»~'fH 



S'^ 



ca o 
•2o> 

03 



03 o £^'" 



'£B 



flg.Z3 

2 > 

1 ".a 

03 tJ'S 



of pgss 

~ "1 o b o 



as 



2 ® -S • r o 0,71 



•s|S2£;^.3argo^g 

■S==|gS§.S2§S|&g 
■c2aj3t<Sfo35'-9'3'^« 
s5^§-S.9a£>>§_g«^ 

i B-^^ « rt S ^ ^ " "" 



sanao 




03 S O oj 0,5 
— 1-^ d O 1^ =3-^ 

o« S y^S 2.Sf 
° 'O'-i rf, 9 3 p, 

.g|.g^|||§ 

.-T3 M.O ■^'S 
O 03W m 033-a 

Ct3 03 .Q 4) o 



aai-s,; 



a-2 s '^ M 



9 

5 a> 






o 



w ^ o o 

|ogp 



f ir; H C 



§ -3 'X^ 03 
M (3 o ^ 



e^ 



oTM 


X3 






is 


03 




«j 


§ 


0) 


a 


J3 














XI 



•9<->"--i<M 






22 



STATE DEPARTMENTS OP EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 



•3-9 S o S 
o S g a w 

•S o 1^ o m 



sa^-l 



i-3^ £ 









^ ^bi'O C3 I"! 



occ 



-w -"O a 
^■3 a a 

OJ C3 1 



3 


^ 


o 


g 














o 


13 




a^ 








« 


o 






Cl 


o^tC 














a 
o 


em. 


S 




!^< 


H 




t-i 


o 


3 




t« 


m 


ffl 



M " ^ Q, 

So o 9 
m'o 3 



>-. 3 {3 O rt P 

*^tota „ ° 
"2 3 CD at; 

a^ (ST? C3 2 

^oaaw.g 
03 ^■^ a S 

3 ffl 2 w o 2 

aa> 



i^ .„-S5-Q , 



s2-sl^g.g 

O g o3 tn 03 -g o 

a5a.gs.g'^ 

-"O-^ C3-S "•fl 

3 a o"gg o c3 
^S^-oa-Si:^ 



a§g2-3 



11' 






o. 



aS M S X >■-•:: 3« 
E«-3§ SgsSg 
>.2 g Mg >-*" =^a " 

^- 3 O >> ° m O 

ISIllSll-S' 

® oS- S^.a-^ t--Sii 
S t; .^ a o "d 

.5S— ^CoS^^Sato 

j^3-"§-fig§a 
2^-2 g aS'-g^g g g a"g.H g&o3-g „ §- ^-2 



g 03.M « 5 rt 03 afi S a a?fc£® -S a 



•a .2 » S.-^£ a ^-® ftg '^® g a „VH 
a x: a8'2-- 03 a " ft'* ^-x3 °^2 » o 

SiS^a^^o^^T^-sag^ • 



at,i«3a £-s8S^°a 
S a • ^- - - 

03 03 _ _ _ _ _ 

'• '■ OX) 



' Ota o w m E 



^„ i^^ ft^S >;>ttft 

o >-!'t:; r? o o o o 3-3 0330 



O 



M 5) g,^ M ;; g t. [g-g § '-'■g g a Mt5S2 2^5 S t>>g S.g 

hn°^« :->i=a>-SS'-'(T>tH-*^SS'-^^J3!3o3a5x)®Sj3d 

a .9 ►^ -J^ tjo.a "S •— ••-< m 1-. +^ -^ ftT3 S a ca « a 

_ . I5 g.^^ g.§|.§ g s 1^ § ill |.§ g 

So^t3o3oco-2^.aou)a£o^p,Mw a-a-S S 



1 « o 2 

o o^ 



3 0-: 



g^»a2 
oj » 03 a <c . 

B.oS'^-°'S 

"^ a a <^ 2 

r1 <C 03 „ O CO 

•9'a-a " K £ 



a-ag 
£*> 

M O o 

"^ P-(B 
-M Q^ fc-t 

a c3 o . 

^ ra 

a >.'S a 
0^ "s m a 

a-'oi 

&M ftft 



-|g-9^-2g.g^.2 

O'S »r-S 00 ■S 03 S5 

^ «cB a ^ _o ^ M 

'e>g°Sg-g>'>s|^ 

a S 2 >>~ S cS'S'S g43 

!POCI-MwiH»a<ofto 



<D a 

.ai 



g S s ^. a 



■t X o o o a> 

03 (Dfi a 03 ft-Q 



s "o fl 2 'S ji o"'m "3 

£ii§^gSoo° 
ftg-guQ ^iSftO 

•a bx) s^ tH ,. . .^t? — < a 






— 3 
03 73 



fta o w ti 

,/■ g s ^ 

>,^ a a« 

2 S'^ 
a a <B 



.2-2 o-g 



^^^-_,-.gaofl 
a o^'-S o «;=: a 03^ 

sg»ag-|5-§l 



Jij^ COT.) ^"^ _^— -+j 

aag.g1°g».g 



a, 



-£^5 a 2 
g " 03 .-s E a 

ft.gg^5fe 



a "^.g-^ 

•H O Q Q -W 

o-a MXI g 

a a-^ S.a 

aa'^I^ > 
5.2!=^^ 

•aslfe-- 

CO 



S o^ 

a^ a 



ftg> 



X ^ S 
I-" o « d 



o ® . 

^§2 

go- 
al ftJ2 

00 

a " 

t> a a 

O 03 ft 



ft 



o t; 



g 03 O i'-rt X 
" o_, 2 ® o 

g >--| g > g ® 
S to d lo" § S 3 

ftgft^g^^g 

ft^ 03 M ^ .a ^ 



PS 
SB 



i-i 03 



SB 
o 



03c<I 



5 00=' 



STATE BOARDS OP EDUCATION. 



23 



<o ,^q w t^ o ui u, u ^ 

e3 r? 9 -^ hfiTs — oJ -i ^ 






»:;: t. 






-C3 



^|5[^ 



S 

£-'■3 






« 



^ o5 !? o ° 



C H t! » l«l 2 fen 
o mPh— <5 c3 o 






is-a-afe^' 



H 03^3 



^ a 



la a 

w3 



ft 

"3^ g ^ 2 ©"S-g g >: 
°^b/:gcSl8-2-a„ti 

o 



^ s S o "" 
s> "J; 

da* o-^ M 

■a -2—0 — 

fe 2 g 2 d 
ftd m 03 ad 



d i^M 00 

rt 2 ti— Wo 

^•^•a-s-^l 

M 3 d -S 'S 

C3-3 fc-^ dM 

■i^ 2 d'— d'S 

C'S a*" 
M^Tsa-^S 






a^- 



2 ° 

^.Hll^iSd 



» .2 2 rt 

a. -20.9 



rH .S » I* c 'S M 

Is^slid- 
«ti-"a§§ 

■32°"::aSdi 



§.a^ 
-I? 

« .- H 



<« ® f» es 
d ca o >- m a ® 



3 d 



M 



03 w 

» o > t^S we"S 

.!:) o o ^ d » o 
» " . ^ a) -S c3 d » 

'-«a.Sg.a|s 

C3 >-53p fto3 53 t> 



i '2gco3as2£fe..w 

■S ° 3-2 « =" d - M ft-=i^ fe 

d^T^ ff^'!3j:Sn:iHX..^C3h-d 

"^ O C3 



■3|.§||^-g§ogo- 



3 (C m 

CD +^2 

' '^ rt £ 
00"-' -d 



- „ " a 



tHftc3«®€S!>w.iH«o 



•« O a) 

OS. 



ft'o ..tn 
g|§5S 

.« M O tj 



3-r "^ 



••^ fe o h 

■*^ X _^ 03 

■2 c§ '^ 

2<a§-§ 



"K 03 M 

£ 32 d2 
Co o o3 <» 

.2.Z-='»d« 
d fe '^''S-SS 

g-isa&B, 



s if'^ a i 

3 ^^ r^ 2 



■g O o — 

»-"s >,^ 
.^Sd§-2. 

t; O) O 03 rt 

g-O ma" 

> fl d is S 
O 



« £ a's 

ti o g 

03.2 p-^s 



® 0.9 cats 



^.S-" to 
" 'C a? 

" *.d 3 

® n.a o 



!>. 



2 g d-S-^ ^ 

3 ftS.s -tf 2 , 
d Mgd ^, 

>- » CB OT «T) d 

P<3-S a> 3 o3rt 



243 °> 



3"-^£.h 



2 ^s 

» 03 

:.a§M 



■O - fe o 

S s t2 > 
2.2 » o-S 

H 3 ' 



.. m E » 

D J3 d 3 



o 9 ._ 

(E 03 >5 



"62 



" " a 
= ca ><. 



' o od • 



'a 



Sd^ 

03 > £ 
O Md 
O 



3 i-M 

75 d5 gi^ 
■5i|rt2?3 

®a.s>5 



.as^e 
ld'S> 



-o 2 s 
ld.2^a 

t> » o o 
o-dtd a 
O 



> 03 » 



ag^.as 

S a) o a> 



B-2 



^co a) 



00 









po 



00 .5Q-43 



t? o 02 
CJ o •-> 

J3-S g-°0 

73 o aco 

CO 



24 



STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 






M 



„ P O O -^ ., ^ 



o <s o 



2 o " c 









t/T-^ "3 9 TOT 



33. 



: c3 d 



.r-9 S5 9:j-ot £ c =3 "t-Sis a-Cd-U" 
tjt; g q g.S-g » _o ® 2 o.:5 g-s g-g 

^ o Mfl|.g^ ^ § "ca g "-g fe;^ op's 

d s o.g.p x-St: " «-g--2 OT 

o d~ 



^|g:°|||l§i sipllif nil 

d 3 >> .2^®apSSmOc3i2;;-sn»c3h ® 

i ^ s|-°i g3-i §^ iiii^ :° |l HI 

a-a^^ g,.2 2 =« is^-iS o2 8"r s« »5 d q-a 

rt S S§ 2 o S S _.S^=-B3 >>-^-S 6 ft 

§i§ft^-B&i" 






■2 o 



XJ CD 






^ 9 & 

o ^ 



Fii^lt-Spls-s^; 









O M.^ o o 






^ r^^ S '-^ S ' 
O ri (D fi , 



g.g u^'" a fe 9. 2—! o'p'ri r„-H 



-o a 6i,§ 



! g ^1^ 2 Viir^$. II § o-i II ^! ?i§iis otIiiii iiii II g §11 






(=1 

a 
o 
O 



ftt; s 

, d c3 
S22 

f> 0) d 

O fto3 

o 






CO .2 



E.g 




c9 c3 

ga 



.fa's OT ilS dp 

_gc3»gg^O 
o _-~^ c« P.p.p 

g d OT StJ '"'-'■'^ 

o_S2-9o « § 

^ g fe ^ a .^..2 

•3 ^^^gs d.g g 
■a d £ a? t>,"S "2 ■ 

-• — ^ i-i S 0) 



i C3-* 03 R - 



® 03 



fe.g 



^-gEta'all 
g-s2g;2io& 

0) ov3 1-,'V H 03 0) 



®„ pS d 

o2.gs.;! 

(D-^ d " 



03 



ft.9 c3 



'^ 



§2 



a X 



d 


a 

o 


Q 


> 


2 


d 


o 
to 


.9 






p. 


d 


o 


g 
>. 




rH 


T)X) 


t-T 




§ 


T) 








% 


3 


o" 


5 


> 
o 




a 


o 


fttd ft 


O 









? t; > 
9 ^ » 

.9 /-'I ^ 
ft® ft"^ 

ft^ C3C<1 



;:2'a 



^S; 



11"- 

a)£l fto* 
d t> ftir 
dCQ 



fc" 
























« 






9 


o 


o 


e 


o 


> 


d 


o 


C3 


O 





.95g&fe 
«:^^ ® a 



■*^ cp'r^i™ ^d 
d ^ »-' "■ ^ 
» ft® 



d d 'S "f o 
£.2t3 'So 
.9o ■"'^ 



®r3'C! ® 
gd25 

(D w 2 ."tz ^ 

X ° S" a 

« t. » tH S 

ftffi O M 

® 4^^ r ® 
^a o®5 

g|l5i 

CO 03 coX^ O 



^ o 
o _ 

®^ a 

lii 

ft^ 9 



'X2-a 

en ° 9 
.fell 

^ ® 3 
ao^ 

5 9^1 
"-0.2 



^ ®3 
9o^ 



rt'h 


» o 


0) 


ysM 


C<1^ 


^^i^ 


-1 


•^^ > 








-a ^ 






&;§ 


i'^a 



^^ 



v'^S 



. o ■ . .^ 

■ ^ ftx ^ en 

d o fto o-H 

OSM 



(B ■ — 



STATE BOARDS OF EDUCATION. 



25 






sSfe' 



= c; 5 s"" ;/■« i^ s > i^ » S ° § S ^S^ ::_ 
5 § O.S § °;^|l^:| g-^ » &ft-|| » el's 

g^ 9-3 g^ § "=*m gj3 g<fc £ d o C g 0.2 ffl >< 




2*dCr' r"'^^i£.2w 
'" ^-S p o "^ 



H 5 E S °"-w oSaJdd -tig 



g 2:^ c3 m 



3T3«h 



P 0) § Qj bo 

„ j„ d c3 g.-y 

^ ^ P.MI 






M^ ft^^ „ d S..2 a «<» « d' 



3 ^-&.^ 
f P C3 is 



^ O ^ Qj 



,.c3 



<^2 bjc 

° d . - S .d p 3 
o gtSS a d e-lag 3fi § 

do-4J^-wajpHi-Sr3T"S 

csdcA:..3c/iP,c«^Mt3£;c 



d>S CO oS X to w r^-^J o I* 97a 

a„glo =:^oSfc2>«| 

^^g-^gif^gl&ligS 
<-.E"'"^--o"QirM''^"d 

S^'gd^l^gggg^Bsl 

*ja;OijC3odP-i^-3o^03Mtn-k^ 



-w 


C3 




^ 








o 


■o 








w 


Cll 


a 




i 


o 


d 


l-l 


5 


d 


ca 



d o ® d 2 
iJ Bs B 

•S 2.fe o 
^S"2 2t-. 



ti-rt fl i o 

■e d m"5 

p-i Q> ^ d 

.a g a S ° *^ 
d'l s p aS 

d-fe'Bf-^a-g 

*r^ d o P2 a» 
c p.b «— P, 
^,2 o p •« P 

pT; M d o CO 



<D(flg 

d S-S • 
S d-d £ 

S <B o <u 

S P.p.^ 



•g d-O c3 ?< o-p 

igsa-- a 

S Hi uj d a 
p S^ 



i3 ■? «.i<J 



:^ -, & 



o oj-P o E;t3 1 






(CP Q,0 
gPH><-2 



Sg§| 

t^ d P ^ 
cs fe Ol3 

© P.W O 

!> d d o 

O 



■1-^ » P <N 

■""So* 

5g^5 

'^laH- 

» Oi p-r' 

■" p.i: ^ 
■S2 d )I^ <^ 

O p M~S 

i.2o2 

<S K o — 

, , S^'~< a 



=" 2^ ® 

s d S 

P (1) O g 

S« p " 

03 o"K P 
di; d.P 

" S5 
J3.P _S~ 



§ d o «.-i5 • 

C3 o I ^ 

" (C^r p S 
fei3 P t- S H 



g^d ofeS 
1^2 - ° 

^.2«.2feQ 

.S -w d O te ■" 

o is ®!d S 2 

o S d*d 2d 
ba Pid o P.i3 



1:3 <D c^^ ^ ^ 
■2 <S «^ C 

w c c3-d iS eS 

OX3 * O O "l* 



■.p^ >> 



;2o od'S.g'^ o P.I-^^'^-S) 



O C3 C3 r- c3 O 

:.&a«a 



d 
■o g 



•S ^ 



cc 



sp, -"o^oa >°o3S^ 

z: M 13 - d 05 



f^-r2 

tf! P tr ^ ^ ri 

" " ""s^ a 

>*^ ., "3 

dBd^.B'.^ 

.P=2o§2§ 

2 QJ 0) J3-Pd 



'+^ d o^"« 

t« 0.C3~ g p." 



d S >- 
ca g — 

2 "2 ig 

P._a/^ S 







,-v 
















oo^ 








a>""' 35 












o> 




-°s 




'"' 






u 




l-'S 




"3 


1 





75088°— 15 






26 



STATE DEPAKTMEXTS OF EDUCATION OEGANIZATION, 



1 



,S-3 OT3 



ft. 



"go°3 5^i Sm ^-t. j;5^ 

mfl£h'f'n«^£:SdP.d-" 



3 


03 


q 


d 


ni 


a 


'S 


a 


43 


-*-* 


JTl 




t^ 


■o 


O 


ji 


t>. 






;=; 


o 


a 



a^ 



lo-a 






a>^ aM)„-«a>. 
- " " is S s t-^ 
^ • s _2 2 -o ^ 

'O i- fl o d 
a-Q p,d p-iiiS dX!53 o 



.g 



t>» 



O) d S rj d Cj n 

!-. o d53 oT o : 



) dS o'C o >> 
5^ 5 « §5.3 

Is at^ i i| 
^1 Sl&a^ 

S "^-o ^^ a*^ a 
ft-S a g d 03 d J3 



"43 "o d 

O £ P.03 



■a 03O 

.a--«? 



STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 27 

STATE superintendent" OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION. 

Present practice might seem to indicate that public sentiment is 
in favor of electing the State superintendent by popular vote, as is 
done in 33 States. Sentiment, however, seems to be turning from 
the election of the State superintendent in favor of the appointment 
of the State superintendent by the State board of education or by 
the governor. The Vermont State superintendent is now selected 
by the State board of education instead of appointed by the governor, 
as formerly; the Ohio and Iowa State superintendents are now 
appointed by the governor instead of being elected by popular vote ; 
Delaware, where, until two years ago, an elected State officer acted 
ex officio as State superintendent, has now a State commissioner of 
education appointed by the governor. At a meeting of the State 
superintendents of public instruction of the various States, held at 
St. Paul, Minn., in July, 1914, in connection with the annual meeting 
of the National Education Association, resolutions were adopted by 
almost a unanimous vote favoring the appointment of the State 
superintendent by the State board of education. Movements are 
on foot at the present time in several States to remove the State 
superintendency from an elected office. In some of them desiring 
to make the change the State superintendent of public instruction 
is a constitutional officer, and no change in the method of selection 
may be made without amending the State constitution. 

The following shows the method of selection of State superin- 
tendent in the various States: 

In 33 States he is elected by the people, viz, in Alabama, Arizona, 
Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, 
Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Mis- 
souri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, 
North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, South Dakota, 
Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, 
and Wyoming. 

In 10 States he is appointed by the governor, viz, in Delaware, Iowa, 
Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Ohio, 
Pennsylvania, and Tennessee. 

In five States he is appointed by the State board of education, viz, 
in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, Khode Island, and 
Vermont. 

In nearly all of the States the office of State superintendent of 
public instruction was created as a political office; in the majority 
it has remained a political office ; it is difficult to change it. There 
is a diversity of opinion among educational leaders as to how, in the 
interest of greater efficiency, he ought to be appointed, but the ma- 
jority seem to favor his selection by a nonpartisan State board of 



28 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 

education. Some of the serious disadvantages of his election by 
popular vote are reasonably clear: 

(a) This method of appointment limits the field from which it 
selects the man for the position; he must be a citizen of the given 
State. In States where the superintendent is appointed by the 
State board of education, and in some States where he is appointed 
by the governor, he may be selected from the country at large. The 
city board of education selects its superintendent of schools from the 
country at large. Trustees of colleges and universities, even of State 
universities, select executive heads of these institutions from the 
country at large. Boards of directors in control of large business 
interests select their executive officers from the country at large. 
In Germany many towns and cities, when there is a vacancy in the 
office of mayor, advertise the fact throughout the Empire and invite 
applications for the position; and a similar method of selectmg the 
city manager is being adopted in cities in the United States with the 
commission form of government. Such freedom of selection is clearly 
in the interest of better service. 

(6) Where the State superintendent is elected by popular vote the 
salary is fixed beforehand by law; the salary can not be adjusted to 
fit the man desired, but a man must be found to fit the salary. It is 
clearly in the interest of better service that city school boards, trustees 
of colleges and universities, and boards of busmess directors have 
authority to adjust the salary of executive officers to the needs and 
effectiveness of the service. 

(c) Where the State superintendent is selected by popular vote the 
term of office is short, two to four years, and reappointment is un- 
certain. The superintendent can not count on winning reappoint- 
ment by rendering good service. Lack of continuity in the service, 
lack of basis for making and working out far-reaching plans, is a seri- 
ous handicap to the superintendent, however capable. 

{d) This method of appointment makes the office a political one and 
subjects it to all the fluctuations of party and factional politics. 
Under these conditions the position is not attractive ; no one can look 
to it as a career. 

These serious objections to the selection of the State superintendent 
by popular vote hold true in part at least when the appointment is 
left to the governor. In a few States the governor is authorized to 
select the State superintendent from within or without the State. In 
five States, as previously mentioned, the State superintendent is 
appointed by the State board and is the executive officer of the board, 
performing such duties as directed by it. If the State board is to be 
made responsible for the State's educational business, it would seem 
that it ought to have the selection of its own executive officer; it 



STATE SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION. 



29 



should be free to select him from the country at large; it should have 
power to determine his compensation, and should keep him at his post 
as long as he is effective. 

Relation of the State superintendent to the State hoard. — The trend 
both in practice and opinion is strongly in favor of the State superin- 
tendent as chief executive officer of the board. In those States which 
have no State board of education the superintendent is sole executive, 
and in many of the States which have State boards the position of 
State superintendent was created first, and the board has been made 
advisor}^; in many States where the relation of superintendent to the 
board has not been clearly defined by law, practice has made the State 
supermtendent chief executive. In West Virginia the superintendent 
appoints the board; in New York he is appointed by the board, he is 
its chief executive officer, and in addition has many powers and duties 
not altogether subject to the approval of the board. This is indicated 
by the powers and duties conferred upon him by State law contained 
in the follovv^ing pages. 

Summary .—The trend in our present development is toward a 
strong working State board organized on a nonpartisan basis; the 
best interests of the service would seem to require that this board 
when thus constituted be given the power to appoint the State super- 
intendent; that it be free to select him from the country at large, that 
it have authority to pay whatever salary is n ecessary to get the best 
man for the position; that it make the man appointed a member of 
the board and its chief executive officer; that it keep him in the serv- 
ice as long as he proves to be effective, and supply him a staff of assist- 
ants needed to do the work.^ With the State department of education 
organized on this basis, the position of State superintendent sta^nds 
first in responsibility and in the opportunity to render effective service. 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer. 



State; title of officer. 


Term 

of 
office, 

in 
years. 


Manner of se- 
lection. 


Salary. 


Powers and duties. 


Alabama 


'4 


By vote of the 
people. 


$3,000 


Has general supervision over the educational inter- 


Superintendent of 
education. 


ests of the State; apportions school funds to coun- 
ties; requires reports from school oflicers; prepares 
necessary report blanks and furnishes to school 
officers; keeps accounts with townships and school 
districts; shall visit annually, if practicable, every 
county in the State; has general supervision of 
teachers' institutes; hasschool laws published; re- 
ports to governor; is ex officio a member of boards 
of trustees of State educational institutions; is 
member of normal school board. State textbook 
commission, and commission to locate county high 
schools. 



' The staffs of the various departments of education are given in the folio-wing 
• Not eligible to succeed himself. 



30 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 

Digest of laws relating to chief State, school officer — Continued. 



state; title of ofHcer. 



Term 
of 

office, 



Manner of se- 
lecticn. 



Salary. 



Powers and duties. 



Arizona 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



By vote of the 
people. 



$3,000 



Arkansas 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



.do. 



California 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



.do. 



Colorado 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



.do. 



3,000 



Connecticut 

Secretary of State 
board of educa- 
tion. 



Delaware 

Commissioner of 
education. 



Florida 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Appointed by 
State board 
of education. 



Appointed by 
governor. 

By vote of the 
people. 



3,500 

2,000 
3,600 



Is a member and secretary of State board of educa- 
tion; is chairman of State board of examiners; su- 
perintends the public schools; under supervision 
of State board apportions school funds to counties; 
prepares and distributes course of study prescribed 
by State board; publishes and distributes pam- 
phlets regarding the observance of special days; 
prepares and furnishes report blanlcs; makes a re- 
port to governor; has school laws printed and sup- 
plies them to school officers and libraries; holds 
annual meetings of county superintendents. 

Is member andchairman of "State board ofeducation; 
is general executive officer of the State board; has 
general supervision of the public schools; appor- 
tions school funds; furnishes questions to county 
examiners of teachers; issues State teaching cer- 
tificates under supervision of State board; makes 
annual report to governor; publishes school laws; 
prescribes uniform system of keeping school 
accounts. 

Is secretary and executive officer of State board of 
education; is member and secretary of joint nor- 
mal school board; has general supervision of the 
schools of the State; apportions State school funds; 
prepares and furnishes blanks and forms for mak- 
ing uniform reports; visits normal schools, the sev- 
eral orphan asylums to which State appropria- 
tions are made, and public schools, ana incjuires 
into their condition; may hold annual convention 
of county and city superintendents; reports to gov- 
ernor; hasschool laws printed and furnishes copies 
to officers and libraries. 

Is member and president of State board ofeducation; 
has general supervision of public schools; appor- 
tions school funds to counties; has supervision of 
county superintendents; has school laws printed 
in pamphlet form; decides all points regarding the 
construction of the school laws; prepares questions 
for use of county superintendents in examining 
teachers; furnishes blanks and registers to school 
officers for making reports; reports to governor 
with suggestions; visits schools in counties if prac- 
ticable; prepares and furnishes test cards for the 
physical examination of pupils; apportions normal 
institute fund; is member and president of State 
board of examiners; is member of board of trustees 
of State normal school. 

Is executive officer of the State board of education 
and performs such duties as State board directs; 
determines whether districts are conducting school 
according to law; reports to the State comptroller 
the list of towns and districts forfeiting State aid 
for failure to comply with the law and the amount 
of forfeitures; furnishes blanks and registers for 
returns from private schools; draws order for 
school-library money. 

Is secretary and executive officer of the State board 
of education; performs such duties as the board 
may direct; keeps record of official acts of State 
board and conducts its correspondence. 

Is member and secretary of State board ofeducation; 
has oversight of all matters pertaining to public 
schools and to school buildings and grounds; ap- 
portions State schoolfunds to counties; hasprinted 
and distributes school laws to schools officer and 
teachers; decides appeals or refers them to board of 
education; holds meetings of county superintend- 
ents; holds teachers' institutes and employs in- 
structors for them; prepares questions for county 
examinations; holds examinations for and issues 
State certificates; may grant life certificates; pre- 
serves certified copies of lists of persoiis paying poll 
taxes. 



STATE SUPERI]SrTENDE]SrT OF PUBLIC INSTBUCTION. 
Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Continued. 



31 



state; title of officer. 



Term 

of 
ofTice 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



Salary 



Powers and duties. 



Georgia 

State superintend 
ent of schools. 



By vote of the 
people. 



S3, 000 



Idahoi , 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Illinois , 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



.do. 



2,400 



By vote of the 
people. 



7,500 



.do. 



5, 000 



Is member and chief executive officer of State board 
of education; apportions public school funds; ap- 
points with consent of board three State* super- 
visors; appoints an expert accoimtant to audit 
books of school officers; institutes suits to recover 
misapplied funds; prepares blanks for reports from 
subordinate school officers; may suspend a county 
superintendent for cause; visits all counties as far 
as practicable; makes aimual report. 

Is member and executive officer of State board of 
education; superintends generally the public 
schools; apportions State school funds; holds con- 
ventions of county and city superintendents and 
district principals; prepares and furnishes neces- 
sary blanks to officers and teachers; has school laws 
printed and furnishes them to school officers and 
libraries; makes biennial report to governor; visits 
all counties if practicable; is member of summer , 
normal school commission and visits such schools i 
aimually; prepares questions for examination of j 
teachers. I 

Has general supervision of public schools; advises ! 
county superintendents as to conduct of the schools, 
construction of schoolhouses, etc.; designates sta- 
tistics to be reported to county superintendents 
and may require reports from such superintend- 
ents; is legal adviser of school officers; hears and 
determines controversies; grants State certifi- 
cates; may remit forfeited school funds to districts; 
requires auditor to witlilaold funds from counties 
until necessary reports are made; requires county 
superintendents towithhold funds from delinquent 
districts; is member of trustees of all State normal 
schools and of State university; visits charitable 
institutions of an educational nature; requests re- 
ports from private educational institutions. 

Is member and president of State board of educa- 
tion; has general supervision of the public schools; 
visits each county at least once during his term to 
examine auditor's books; has supervision of the 
school funds with special reference to their safe in- 
vestment ; may require reports from school officers 
and for such piuTJOse furnishes blanks; prescribes 
forms of bookkeeping; has school laws printed; in- 
terprets school laws to school officers; indorses ap- 
proved certificates issued in other States; appoints 
a deputy superintendent in charge of industrial 
education. 

Has general supervision and control over all public 
schools; ascertains needs of schools and suggests 
needed changes; classifies the various schools and 
formulates courses of study; promotes vocational 
education ; prescribes reports to be made by officers 
and teachers and prepares forms therefor; reports 
annually school census to State auditor; prepares 
plans and specifications for schoolhouses; provides 
for county teachers' institutes; prepares questions 
for applicants to teach and for eighth-grade exam- 
inations; has school laws published; hears and 
determines appeals ; designates training schools for 
rural teachers. 

Is member of State board of education; has general 
supervision of the public schools; distributes State 
school funds to counties; publishes school laws 
and distributes to persons entitled to receive 
them; decides controversies submitted through 
county superintendents; prescribes and furnishes 
blank forms ; visits each county of the State at least 
once in 2 years; is member of textbook commis- 
sion which is authorized to prepare and publish 
textbooks to be sold to schools at cost ; files and pre- 
serves reports made to him; reports biennially to 
governor. 

' Idaho has also a ' ' State commissioner of education " appointed by the State board of education, at 
salary of $6,000 per year, who acts as an adviser to the board on educational policies. 



Indiana 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Iowa 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Appointed by 
the governor. 



4,000 



Kansas 

Superintendent of 
public instnic- 
tion. 



By vote of the 
people. 



2, .500 



32 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Conlimied. 



State; title of officer. 



Term 

of 
office, 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



Salary. 



Powers and duties. 



Kentucky 

Superintendent of 
public instnic- 
tion. 



By vote of the 
people. 



$4,000 



Louisiana 

Superintendent of 
public education. 



( Maine 

i Superintendent of 
public schools. 



.do. 



5,000 



Appointed by 
the governor. 



4,000 



Maryland 

Superintendent of 
public education. 



-do 



3,000 



Massachusetts. . . 

(Commissioner 

education. 



Michigan 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
liou. 



Appointed by 
the State 
board of ed- 
ucation. 



6,500 



By vote of the 
people. 



4,000 



Is member and chairman of State board of educa- 
tion; is member of State board of examiners; ap- 
portions State school funds; inspects fiscal affairs 
and conduct of the offices of all school officials who 
handle public-school money and sees that aU 
laws and rej^ilations are enforced; visits and 
inspects all schools if practicable; prepares blanlcs, 
etc., for reports and furnishes them to school 
officers; collects and publishes general informa- 
tion in his biennial report regarding institutions 
for deaf, dumb, blind, and feeble-minded; edits 
school laws biennially and publishes them with 
instructions, etc.; on request hears and deter- 
mines appeals. 

Is member and secretary of State board of educa- 
tion; is ex officio a member of each of the boards 
of trustees of educational institutions controlled 
by the State; has general supervision of parish 
(county) school boards and of all elementary, 
high, and normal schools; visits parishes as often 
as practicable; makes biennial report with recom- 
mendations; reports subordinate officers to 
State board of education for neglect of duty, mis- 
use of school funds, etc. 

Has general supervision over public schools and ad- 
vises and directs town committees and superin- 
tendents; ascertains number of children 5 to 21 
years old to be used as basis of distribution of 
school funds; prescribes studies to be taught in 
the common schools, but town committees may 
prescribe additional studies; prepares and fur- 
nishes blanks, etc., for making reports to his of- 
fice and designates facts to be reported; holds an- 
nual conferences for the instruction of superin- 
tendents; has school laws printed and distributed 
to school officers; prescribes examinations for 
teachers and issues State certificates; keeps list 
of approved candidates in his ofiice; makes rules 
governing administration of teachers' pension 
laws; holds summer training schools for teachers; 
classifies high schools and causes State-aided 
schools to be inspected; is member of board of 
trustees of normal schools. 

Is member and secretary of State board of educa- 
tion; performs such duties as directed by board; 
receives reports from county boards and exam- 
ines their accounts; inspects and classifies high 
schools; has printed and distributes such matter 
as will encourage the work of public instruction 
and promote its uniformity; diffuses information 
as to the best methods of instruction; may in- 
dorse normal-school diplomas from other States; 
arranges dates for teachers' institutes and assists 
in preparing programs; appoints an assistant 
superintendent. 

Is executive officer of State board of education; per- 
forms such duties as the board may direct; has 
supervision of all educational work supported in 
whole or in part by the State and reports thereon 
to the board; visits different parts of the State to 
assist educational work and diffuse Information; 
publishes and distributes matter for the promo- 
tion of public-school education; conducts such 
teachers' institutes as are designated by the State 
board; collects information for annual report of 
board; is one of commissioners to invest and man- 
age State school fimd; is member of State teach- 
ers' retirement board. 

Is member and secretary of State board of educa- 
tion; is member of other boards having control of 
State educational institutions, with the right to 
speak but not to vote; has general supervision of 
public instruction, including State institutions; 
apportions primary school interest fund; prepares 
and has printed a course of study for district 
schools except city districts; directs supervision 
of county normal training classes; requires board 



STATE SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTEUCTION. 33 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Continued. 



State; title of officer. 



Term 

of 
on ce, 



Michigan (contd) . 



Minnesota 

Superintendent of 
education. 



Mississippi 

Superintendent of 
public education. 



Missouri 

Superintendent of 
public schools. 



Montana , 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



Salary, 



Appointed by 
the governor. 



$4, 500 



By vote of the 
people. 



.do. 



.do. 



2,500 



3,000 



3,000 



Powers and duties. 



of education to observe school laws; whea neces- 
sary, examines school district accounts and may 
require report; requires districts to conduct schools 
for term required by law; fixes time and place 
and appoints instructors for State teachers' insti- 
tute and for county institutes; removes for cause 
any member of aschool board except in city school 
districts; prepares rules for to\\Tiship and district 
libraries; prescribes form for taking school census; 

Erepares questions for examination of teachers; 
ears and determines appeals; approves schools 
for accredited list; grants permission to districts 
to establish schools for the deaf; approves courses 
of study for rural high schools; approves teachers 
and courses of study of county schools of agricul- 
ture. 

Has general supervision of public schools; appor- 
tions school funds to schools entitled to State aid; 
meets county and other superintendents for dis- 
cussion of educational matters; prepares and dis- 
tributes blanks, etc., for reports; enforces textbook 
law; provides for teachers' institutes in the several 
counties; conducts examinations for teachers and 
issues all certificates; indorses normal-school cer- 
tificates to teach and may issue special certificates 
for music, drawing, etc.; hears and determines 
appeals; enforces a uniform system of accounts 
and reports; examines and approves plans and 
specifications for schoolhouses; is member of State 
normal-school board; is member of State high- 
school board; is member of State library board. 

Is member and president of State board of educar 
tion; has general supervision of the public schools; 
apportions State school fund to counties and sepa- 
rate districts; prepares questions for county 
teachers' examinations; visits and inspects 
coimty agricultural high schools and reports 
thereon to board of education; is member of board 
of trustees of higher educational institutions; is 
member of State textbook commission. 

Is member and president of State board of educa- 
tion; has supervision of school funds; apportions 
school funds to counties; requires copies of records 
and such other information from county and dis- 
trict officers as he may deem important; prepares 
and furnishes blanks, etc., for reports; has school 
laws printed and distributed; confers with and 
advisesschool officers; visits and inspects schools; 
attends and assists in teachers' meetings; grants 
State teachers' certincates; visits and inspects 
high schools and publishes classified list; pre- 
scribes minimum comse of study for each class; 
fLxes time and place of coimty superintendents' 
convention; furnishes to county superintendents a 
list of publishers who have complied with text- 
book law; designates first-class high schools in 
which teachers' training courses may be offered; 
receives reports from State educational institu- 
tions; controls distribution of State aid to high 
schools and to rural schools. 

Is member and secretary of State board of education; 
has general supervision of the public schools; 
apportions State si^hool fund to counties; prepares 
courses of study for elementary and high schools 
and prescribes to what extent they shall be used; 
prepares and furnishes to school officers blanks, 
etc.; prescribes rules for holuing teachers' insti- 
tutes and summer schools, prepares list of in- 
structors and attends and assists at such insti- 
tutes; advises county superintendents; furnishes 
copies of school laws; hears and determines ap- 
peals; prepares questions for county teachers' 
examinations; may grant temporary State cer- 
tificates; prepares list of books for scbool libraries. 



34 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Continued. 



State; title of ofTicer. 



Term 

of 
ofTice 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



Salary. 



Powers and duties. 



Nebraska 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



By vote of the 
people. 



$2,000 



Kevada 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



.do... 



3,600 



Uew Hampshire 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



New Jersey 

Commissioner of 
education. 



Appointed by 
the gover- 
nor; an in- 
definite 
term. He 
may be re- 
moved by 
governor 
and coimcil 
for cause. 



Appointed by 
the gover- 
nor. 



4,000 



10,000 



Has general supervision of the public schools; appor- 
tions State school funds; has supervision of State 
aid to weak districts; has supervision of State- 
aided high schools, designating those to give 
courses in agriculture, manual training, and home 
economics, also those to conduct teacher-training 
courses; decides disputed points in school law; 
prescribes forms for reports and makes rules for all 
proceedings under the school laws; organizes and 
attends institutes; organizes and manages junior 
normals; issues State certificates and prepares 
questions for all teachers' examinations, both 
county and State, grades the answer papers and 
makes rules for the conduct of such examinations; 
approves city school certificates; furnishes ap- 
proved price lists of textbooks to school districts; 
is member of State normal school board. State 
library commission, State dental board, and State 
board of embahners. 

Is member and secretary of State board of educa- 
tion; apportions State school fund; apportions 
county school funds to districts; visits counties at 
least once in each year to conduct institutes, visits 
schools, etc.; prescribes rules for making reports 
and furnishes blanks, etc. ; has school laws prmted 
and furnished to school officers; holds State teach- 
ers'institutes biennially and district institutes on 
other years; may call county institutes; calls meet- 
ings of State board of education : nominates deputy 
superintendents to State board; requii'es reports 
from deputy superintendents; is curator of State 
museum; is director of orphans' home; appoints 
census marshals in new districts; fills vacancies on 
county boards for unexpired terms; makes ar- 
rangements for care of deaf, dumb, and blind ; de- 
cides appeals from teachers and school boards; 
determines county school tax when county board 
fails so to do; sets apart fund for district school 
libraries. 

Has general supervision and control of educationa 
interests of the State; may appoint three deputies 
at least one of whom shall be a woman; prescribes 
form of school registers and blanks for reports; 
compiles and publishes school laws; visits as many 
towns as practicable; organizes and holds at least 
one teachers' institute in each county annually and 
may employ instructors; assists school boards and 
superintendents in the introduction and develop- 
ment of vocational training; inspects and rates 
highschools; appoints inspectors of child labor; has 
authority to enforce attendance laws and laws re- 
lating to child labor; examines teachers and issues 
certificates; is member of State normal school 
board and official inspector of such schools; is re- 
gent of State board of medical examiners; approves 
hospital training schools. 

Under State board of education has general super- 
vision of public schools; designates a clerk to serve 
as secretary of State board of education; appoints 
four assistant commissioners; apportions State 
funds to counties; may prescribe courses of study 
for elementary and high schools; prescribes meth- 
ods of ascertaining whatchildren are below normal; 
directs county collector to withhold State funds 
from delinquent districts; is one of the trustees of 
the school fund ; is a member of all boards of exam- 
iners; appoints county superintendents; holds an- 
nual meetings of city and county superintendents; 
instructs city and county superintendents as to 
their duties m conduct of schools, construction of 
schoolhouses, etc.; directs withholding salary of 
teacher not complying with law; requires reports 
from institutions receiving State aid; prepares 
blanks for making all reports and conducting pro- 
ceedings under school laws; causes school laws to 
be printed; decides controversies subject to appeal 
to board of education; loans plans for schoolhouses 
to districts and may require abandonment of unfit 
building; is member of public library commission. 



STATE SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION, 35 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Continued. 



state; title of officer. 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



Powers and duties. 



New Mexico 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion . 



By vote of the 
people. 



■53,000 



New York 

President of the 
university and 
commissioner of 
education. 



(') 



Elected by the 
regents. 



10,000 



North Carolina 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



By vote of the 
people. 



Is member and secretary of State board of education 
has general supervision of public education; 
apportions current school fund to counties; dis- 
tributes State-aid fund to weak districts; has 
supervision over records and accounts of school 
boards; may suspend county superintendent for 
neglect of duty; visits counties as often as practi- 
cable to hold teachers' meetings, advise with 
county superintendents, etc.; appoints State 
director of industrial education; has printed and 
distributes blanks for reports; receives reports 
from school officers; has school laws printed; hears 
and decides controversies; enforces law relating to 
building of schoolhouses. 

As president of the university, in addition to such 
other duties and functions as may otherwise be 
devolved upon him with the power and duty of 
general supervision over all educational work and 
activities in this State, it is his duty also to devote 
himself to educational research, to the study of the 
educational work of the systems of other jurisdic- 
tions and, with the approval of the regents, to 
introduce and originate so far as possible better 
methods of education and especially to endeavor 
in every feasible way to iDring about the improved 
development and greater usefulness of the common 
schools of the State. He may attend all meetings 
of the board and its committees, submit matters 
for their consideration and participate in their 
discussion. The commissioner of education is 
alone eligible for election to the office of president. 
As commissioner of education, he is the chief 
executive officer of the State system of education 
and of the university. In case of vacancy the 
chancellor succeeds to and has the power of the 
commissioner, or if his office be vacant the suc- 
cession devolves upon the vice chancellor or the 
senior regent or a deputy appointed by the same 
if he be at the same tirne a university officer or 
regent. The general powers and duties of the 
commissioner prescribed by the law comprise: 
Enforcement of all general and special laws rela- 
ting to the educational system of the State and the 
execution of all educational policies determined 
by the regents; the general supervision over all 
schoolsand institutions, examinations, andinspec- 
tions; general supervision of industrial schools, 
trade schools, and schools of agriculture, mechanic 
arts and home making; the general supervision of 
the State normal schools; membership on the 
boards of trustees of Cornell University, of Syra- 
cuse State College of Forestry, of Cobleskill Agri- 
cultural School, of the State College for Teachers; 
responsibility for the safe-keeping, proper use of the 
seal, the books, the records of the university and 
for the proper administration and discipline of t 
various offices and divisions of the department; 
the annulment of teachers' certificates and normal 
diplomas; the preparation and preservation of 
teachers' records; the preparation of registrars, 
blanks, forms and regulations affecting the com- 
mon schools and their officers; the administration 
of oaths and affidavits relating to the duties of his 
office or the schools of the State; authority to 
furnish visual instruction through the schools, 
institutions, and organizations of the university; 
and the execution of such other powers and duties 
as he is charged with by the regents. 

Is member and secretary of State board of educatio 
signs all orders paid by State treasurer for school 
purposes; publishes school laws and sees to their 
enforcement; instructs school officers, who must 
obey his instructions and interpretation of the 
school law; has supervision of loaning of literary 
fund for construction of schoolhouses; prepares 
blanks, etc. , for reports; prescribes courses of study 



During the pleasure of the regents. 



36 STATE DEPAETMENTS OF EDUCATION OEGANIZATION. 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Continued. 



1 



State; title of officer. 



KorthCarolinaXcon. ). 



Korth Dakota 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Ohio 

Buperintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Oklahoma 

Buperintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Oregon 

Buperintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Term 
of 

office, 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



By vote of the 
people. 



Appointed by 
the governor. 



By vote of the 
people. 



Salary, 



$3,000 



4,000 



3,000 



Powers and duties. 



for public high schools; is secretary of textbook 
commission; is chairman of State board of exam- 
iners; is member of boards of trustees of certain 
State educational institutions; makes rules for 
rural libraries and furnisheslists of books; is trustee 
of State library. 

Is member and president of State board of educa- 
tion; has general supervision of public schools, 
preparing and prescribing course of study for 
thom; furnishes blanks for records and reports; 
holds meetings of county superintendents; has 
school laws printed and distributed to school 
o.Ticers; decides appeals; keeps sample copies and 
price lists of books furnished by publishers to dis- 
tricts; appoints inspector of State graded schools 
and high-school inspector; approves plans for 
schoolhouses; inspects agricultural and training 
schools; is member of board of university and 
school lands; is member of normal school board; 
is member of board of tnistees of teachers' retire- 
ment fund; approves books for district libraries. 

Has general supervision of public education; has 
supervision of State school funds; requires reports 
from school officers and prescribes forms; makes 
an annual statistical report to the governor; has 
sshool laws printed and distributes to school 
o.ncers; requires reports from private schools; on 
application by 3 taxpayers, appoints an examiner 
to audit a school district's account; submits ab- 
stract of enumeration of youth to State auditor for 
apportionment of school fund; requhes reports of 
high schools and grades such schools; furnishes to 
districts names of publishers of textbooks with 
prices, etc.; prepares questions for examinations 
Tor county teacher's certificates; approves colleges 
granting degrees; appoints State board of exam- 
iners and countersigns all certificates issued by 
them; appoints a sufficient number of assistants; 
appoints high-school inspectors and supervisors 
of agricultural education; approves applications 
for State aid and rules of county examiners; 
standardizes the elementary schools of the State, 
furnishing suitable placards for same; issues pro- 
visional certificates and renews all professional 
(that is, 5 and 8 year) certificates; establishes 
teacher training courses in high schools; receives 
reports of city, county, and State school exam- 
iners. 

Is member and president of State board of educa- 
tion; has general supervision of educational inter- 
ests; apportions State school fimd to counties; 
publishes school laws; hears and decides contro- 
versies; furnishes blanks, etc., for reports; pre- 
serves records and school documents; appoints 
State school inspector; is meml:)er of commission 
on a<rricultural and industrial education. 

Is member and secretary of State board of educa- 
tion; has general supervision of county and dis- 
trict school officers and of the public schools; pre- 
pares questions for examinations of graduates of 
eighth grade; prescribes 2 years of course of study 
for high schools; visits, if pfactical)Ie, every county 
annually; attends county institutes and assists in 
their organization and development; keeps statis- 
tics of schools; prepares blanks, etc., for uniform 
reports; compiles and annotates school laws; 
decides appeals or may submit them to State 
board; issues letters and circulars to school officers 
relative to the conduct of the schools; holds annual 
State teachers' association; appoints a board of 
9 examiners to prepare questions for State exami- 
nations of teachers; appoints professional teachers 
to grade papers; issues State certi eates; is mem- 
ber of State lilirary commission; is member and 
secretary of trustee's of State school for deaf mutes; 
clas'Jifics correspondence schools; prepares reading 
circle course and rules. 



STATE SUPEEINTENDENT OF PUBLIC IISrSTEUCTIOISr. 
Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Continued. 



37 



state; title of officer. 



Term 

of 
office, 

in 

}-ears, 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



Salary. 



Powers aad'duties. 



Pennsylvania 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Khodc Island 

Commissioner of 
public schools. 



South Carolina 

Superintendent of 
education. 



South Dakota 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Tennessee 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Appointed by 
the governor, 



15,, 000 



Elected by 
State board 
ofeducation. 



6,000 



By vote of the 
people. 



1,900 



.do. 



1. 800 



Appointed by 
the governor, 



3,000 



Is member and president of State board of educa- 
tion; has general supervision of public schools; 
apportions State appropriation; signs order of 
payment of State school funds to districts; pre- 
scribes minimum course of studj' for puolic 
schools; issues commissions to superintendents 
and assistant superintendents and fills vacancies 
in the county superintendencies; prepares blanks 
for reports from school officers; interprets school 
laws and -advises relative to their enforcement; 
classifies high schools and prescribes rules for 
admission of pupils; may condenm school build- 
ings unfit for use; issues State teachers' certifi- 
cates and indorses normal school diplomas; ap- 
points board of normal school examiners; holds 
meeting of normal school principals to make 
course of study. 

Is secretary of ttate board ofeducation; apportions 
£tate appropriation for public schools; hears and 
decides appeals and prescribes rules for making 
appeals; visits to^^-ns to inspect schools; assists in 
securing uniformity of textbooks in all towns; pre- 
pares programs for Grand Army flag day and for 
Rhode Island independence day and other special 
days; approves unions of towns for employment 
of superintendents and draws order on treasurer 
for one-half of salaries; approves consolidation of 
schools; is one of managers of Rhode Island State 
College; holds teachers' institutes; is member of 
board of trustees of State normal school. 

Is member and secretary of State board of educa- 
tion; has general supcrvisicn of public schools; 
visits counties to inspect schools and diffuse infor- 
mation; with advice of State board, secures uni- 
formity of textbooks; prepares and furnishes reg- 
isters, forms, etc., to county superintendents for 
making reports; has school laws printed; receives 
reports from State institutions of higher learning; 
is member of board of trustees of institute for deaf, 
dumb, and blind; is member of board of trustees 
of btate university ar d ttate college for wcmen. 

Has general supervisicn of all coimty and high 
schools and of city and county superintendents; 
meets coimty superintender.ts in annval conven- 
tion to secure uniform administration of the school 
laws; inspects high schools; renders opinions re- 
garding school laws; furnishes blanks for reports 
of county and city superintendents; attends 
teachers' institutes and prescribes rules for holding 
county normal institutes; furnishes list of insti- 
tute conductors; holds annual meetings of insti- 
tute conductors, holds examinations of teachers 
and issues fctate certificates; prepares questions 
for county examinations; is member of teachers' 
reading circle board of managers; is president of 
free library commission. 

Is member and secretary of State board of education; 
is chairman of State board of examiners; is member 
of all other educational bodies or associations; is 
treasurer of the Peabody Normal College fund; 
collects and disseminates statistical and other 
information regarding the public schools; makes 
inspection of public schools; holds county confer- 
ences of teachers; prepares and distributes blanks 
for reports of officers and teachers; has school laws 
printed and distributed and sees that they are 
carried out; may appoint persons in each county 
to examine schools and report thereon; requires 
county superintendents to report annually ; reports 
scholastic population to State comptroller annual- 
ly; has general supervision of county hi^'h schools; 
is member of State textbook commission; is mem- 
ber of free library ccmmission; supervises work of 
the director of library extension. 



38 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 

Digest of laws relating to chief State school officer — Continued. 



state; title of officer. 



Term 

of 
office, 

in 

years. 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



Salary. 



Powers and duties. 



Texas 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



By vote of the 
people. 



S2,500 



Utah 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



.do. 



3,000 



Vermont 

Superintendent of 
education. 



Virginia 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Washiagton 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Elected by 
State board 
ofeducation. 



By vote of the 
people. 



2, 000 



3,500 



-do. 



3,000 



Is secretary of State board of education; apportions 
State school funds; has general supervision of pub- 
lic schools and of the administi'ation of the school 
laws; hears and determines appeals from sub- 
ordinate officers, but his decisions ir ay be reversed 
by State board; prescribes forms for reports; ap- 
proves accounts to be paid from school fund by 
State treasurer; issues instructions to school offi- 
cers, which instructions are binding; has school 
laws printed and distributed; requires reports 
from county, city, and district off.cers; appoints 
State board of "teachers' examiners ana issues 
State certfficates on their recommendation; pre- 
pares questions for county examinations; is mem- 
ber of State textbook commission; supervises sum- 
mer normal institutes; has supervision of school 
census. 

Is member and chairman of State board of education; 
has general supervision of publicinstruction;appor- 
tions State school funds; requires reports from coun- 
ties and cities and withholds apportionment from 
those not reporting; prepares and furnishes forms, 
blanks, etc., for making reports; visits each county 
in the State at least once a year; may examine 
officers' accounts relative to school funds; holds 
annual conventions of county and city superin- 
tendents; with principal of State normal school 
and county superintendent constitutes governing 
board of teachers' institutes; is member of State 
textbook commission; is member of teachers' re- 
tirement commission for State at large; is member 
of commission to fix course of study; is member of 
juvenile court commission. 

Is executive officer of the State board of education; 
has general supervision of public schools; prepares 
course of study for elementary schools as requisite 
for admission to high schools; issues circulars of 
information to officers and teachers; conducts 
summer schools for teachers in each county , or may 
combine two or more counties for such purpose; 
makes regulations governing the examination and 
certffication of teachers; furnishes blanks, etc., 
for reports; prepares test cards for testing sight 
and hearing of pupils. 

Is member arid president of the State board ofeduca- 
tion; is member of boards of visitors of State edu- 
cational institutions; sees to execution of school 
laws; Interprets school laws to school officials and 
his decisions are final unless reversed by State 
board; furnishes blanks and requires reports from 
division superintendents; may appoint persons to 
inspect schools in counties; makes Inspection 
throughout the State; prepares scheme for appor- 
tioning State school funds; prescribes forms of con- 
tracts with teachers; signs warrants of State board 
issues teachers' certificates. 

Is member and president of State board ofeducation 
has general supervision of the public schools; ap 
portions State school funds to counties; has 
blanks, etc., printed for reports and for the admin 
istration of the school laws; attends educationa 
meetings and visits counties; has school law 
printed and distributed; hears and determines 
appeals; holds annual conventions of coimty 
superintendents; requires annual reports from 
educational institutions and county superintend- 
ents; keeps directory of regents arid faculties of 
State educational institutions and of all teachers 
receiving certificates; issues State certfficates; pre- 
pares a State manual; is member of board of 
visitors of State College; is member, of commis- 
sion on community welfare; is member of trus- 
tees of teachers' retirement fund. 



STATE SUPEEIlSrTElSrDEISrT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION, 39 

Digest oflaivs relating to chief State school officer — ^Continued. 



State; title of officer. 



Term 

of 
ofHce, 

in 

years. 



West Virginia 

Superintendent of 
free schools. 



Wisconsin 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Wyoming 

Superintendent of 
public instruc- 
tion. 



Manner of se- 
lection. 



4 By vote of the 
people. 



.do. 



Salary. 



$4, 000 



.5,000 



.do. 



3,000 



Powers and duties. 



Is member of State board of education and appoints 
the other five members; has general supervision of 
public schools; apportions State school funds; is- 
sues manual of course of study prescribed by com- 
mittee of State board on course of study; has con- 
trol of matters relating to the issuance of teachers' 
certificates; sees that school laws are executed; 
furnishes blanks, etc., for reports and to secure 
uniformity in the school system; has school laws 
printed; hears and determines appeals; publishes 
lists of books suitable for school libraries; is mem- 
ber of regents of State normal schools and of all 
State educational institutions; appoints institute 
instructors; draws orders for county superintend- 
ents' salaries; provides for the examination and 
graduation of pupils who complete the course of 
study; inspects and classifies high schools and dis- 
tributes State funds to such schools; distributes 
supplementary State aid to needy districts. 

Has general supervision of the public schools; ap- 
portions school-fund income; attends educational 
meetings and makes investigation of educational 
systems and the condition of the public schools 
and disseminates educational information; pre- 
pares course of study for public schools; furnishes 
blanks for reports and requires reports from school 
officers; publishes school laws and hears and deter- 
mines appeals; exercises general supervision over 
county schools of agriculture, manual training 
schools, county normal schools, and schools for 
the deaf; formulates course of study for such 
schools; holds annual county superintendents' 
convention; prescribes course of study for com- 
mercial schools and colleges; issues State teachers' 
certificates; makes regulations for the manage- 
ment of township and district libraries; is member 
of board of regents of the State university; is mem- 
ber of board of regents of board of triostees of 
teachers' retirement fund. 

Has general supervision of the public schools; ap- 
portions school funds to counties; prepares course 
of study for elementary schools; prepares and fur- 
nishes suitable forms, etc., for reports; makes rules 
ana regulations for carrying school law into effect; 
appoints State board of examiners; issues certifi- 
cates on recommendation of examiners; furnishes 
to districts price lists of textbooks. 



STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION STAFFS. 



The following data were compiled from reports from the various 
State departments relative to the persomiel of the State departments. 
In some mstances the salaries paid were not given and in several 
States the number of persons employed m clerical positions was not 
reported. 

Alabama: 

State superintendent of education |3, 000 

Secretary State board of examiners 2, 400 

Two rural school agents each. . 2, 500 

High-school inspector paid by State university 

High-school inspector paid by Alabama Polytechnic Institute 

Member State board of examiners 1, 200 

Seven clerks total. . 8, 280 

Arizona: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Assistant superintendent 2, 000 

Two clerks total. . 2, 100 

Arkansas: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Deputy 

Assistant deputy 

Professor of secondary education 

Supervisor of rural schools 2, 500 

State organizer of school improvement 

Two clerks 

Associate supervisor of rural schools 2, 500 

California: 

State superintendent of public instruction , 5, 000 

Deputy 2, 400 

Statistician 2, 400 

Commissioner of secondary schools 4, 000 

Commissioner of elementary schools 4, 000 

Commissioner of industrial and vocational education 4, 000 

Chief clerk of State board of education 2, 400 

Four clerks total.. 4,580 

Three clerks 

Colorado: 

State superintendent of public instruction. 3, 000 

Deputy State superintendent T 1, 800 

Three clerks total. . 3, 600 

Connecticut: 

Secretary of State board of education 3, 500 

Eight attendance agents 

Thirty supervising agents 

Two supervisors of agriculture 

Sixteen clerks 

40 



STATE DEPAETMENTS OP EDUCATION STAPFS. 41 

Delaware: 

Commissioner of education $2, 000 

One clerk (part time) 

Florida: 

Superintendent of public instruction 3, 600 

Two rural school inspectors 2, 000 

Chief clerk 1,800 

Statistician 1, 200 

Stenographer 900 

Georgia: 

State superintendent of schools 3, 000 

Rural school agent 2, 500 

Special supervisor (for negroes) 2, 500 

Three State supervisors of rural schools each. . 2, 000 

Three clerks total . . 3, 300 

Idaho: 

Superintendent of pubUc instruction 2, 400 

Assistant State superintendent 1, 750 

Auditor 2, 100 

Three clerks 

Commissioner of education 6, 000 

Illinois: 

Superintendent of public instruction 7, 500 

Department of law 

High-school inspector 

Two inspectors of country and village schools 

Two statisticians 

Publicity agent 

Clerks 

Indiana: 

Superintendent of public institiction 5, 000 

Assistant superintendent 2, 500 

Deputy superintendent 1, 800 

High-school inspector 2, 500 

Two vocational supervisors each . . 4, 250 

Clerk of State board of education and head of manuscript department 

Chief clerk 1, 400 

Four other clerks 

Iowa: 

Superintendent of public instruction 4, 000 

Deputy superintendent 2, 500 

Inspector normal training in high school 2, 000 

Inspector rural and consolidated schools 2, 000 

Two inspectors State graded and high schools each . . 2, 000 

Chief clerk 1,500 

Kansas: 

State superintendent of public instruction 2, 500 

Assistant superintendent of pubUc instruction 1, 600 

Chief clerk 1, 200 

Statistical clerk 1, 000 

Two clerks each . . 900 



42 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 

Kentucky: 

Superintendent of public instruction $4, 000 

Assistant superintendent 

Two inspectors of schools 

Supervisor of secondary schools 

Two sui^ervisors of rural elementary schools 

Six clerks 

Louisiana: 

Superintendent of public education 5, 000 

High-school inspector 3, 000 

Three rural school inspectors total. . 7, 500 

Chief clerk total. . 1, 800 

Two clerks total . . 2, 700 

Chairman examination committee total. . 3, 000 

Maine: 

State superintendent of public schools 4, 000 

Clerk and deputy 1, 500 

State inspector of high schools 1, 350 

General agent for schools in unorganized townships 1, 350 

Supervisor of practical arts 2, 000 

Supervisor of household arts 1, 500 

Four clerks 

Maryland: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Assistant State superintendent 2, 000 

Clerk 1,000 

Supervisor of secondary agriculture (State Agricultural College) 

Massachusetts: 

Commissioner of education 6, 500 

Two deputy commissioners of education each. . 4, 500 

Eight agents of board of education , total. . 20, 700 

Chief clerk 1, 500 

Eleven clerks 

Michigan: 

Superintendent of public instruction 4, 000 

Deputy superintendent 2, 500 

Assistant superintendent 1, 800 

Chief clerk 1, 200 

Statistician ' 1,100 

Twelve clerks 

Minnesota: 

Superintendent of education 4, 500 

Assistant superintendent 2, 800 

Assistant 2, 000 

High-school inspector 3, 000 

Graded-school inspector 3, 000 

Director teachers' employment bureau 3, 000 

Supervisor teacher's training departments 2, 000 

Rural school commissioner 2, 400 

Commissioner of school buildings 1, 500 

Supervisor school libraries 1, 200 



STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION" STAFFS. 43 

Mississippi: 

Superintendent of public instruction $2, 500 

Rural-school supervisor 2, 500 

Supei-visor school improvement 2, 000 

Two clerks eacli. . 900 

Missouri: 

State superintendent of schools 3, 000 

Chief clerk 2, 400 

Statistician 1, 800 

Teacher-training inspector 2, 200 

Two high-school inspectors each. . 1, 800 

Rural-school inspector 1, 800 

Three clerks 

Montana: \ 

State superintendent 3, 000 

Deputy superintendent 2, 100 

Rural-school inspector 2, 100 

Two clerks each . . 1, 200 

Nebraska: 

State superintendent 2, 000 

Deputy superintendent 1, 800 

Assistant superintendent 1, 800 

Normal-training inspector 2, 000 

Rural-school inspector 1, 800 

Secretary and compiler 1, 800 

Six assistant total . . 6, 000 

Nevada: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 600 

Five deputies total. . 10, 000 

One clerk 900 

N'ciu Hampshire: 

Superintendent of public instruction 4, 000 

Deputy State superintendent in charge of practical arts work 

Deputy State superintendent in charge of ofhce 

Deputy State superintendent in charge of high-school inspection 

Registrar and chief clerk 

Two factory inspectors, child -labor service 

Inspector in compulsory attendance service 

Three clerks 

Neib Mexico: 

Superintendent of public instruction 3^ 000 

Assistant suptjrintendent 2, 000 

Chief clerk 1, 500 

State director of industrial education 1, 000 

Clerk 900 

New Jersey: 

Commissioner of education 10, 000 

Deputy commissioner of education 4, 500 

Three assistant commissioners each . . 4, 500 

Chief clerk 3, 000 

Secretary State board of examiners 3, 000 

Inspector buildings 2, 000 

Inspector of accounts 2, 000 

Twelve clerks total. . 10, 650 



44 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION. 

Neiu Yorlc: 

Commissioner of education $10, 000 

Three assistant commissioners each. . 5, 000 

Director State library 5, 000 

Chiefs of divisions of history, law, public records and science each. . 4, 500 

Chiefs of divisions of examination, vocational schools 4, 000 

Secretary board of medical examiners 4, 000 

Chiefs of divisions of administration, attendance, and inspections, .each. . 3, 500 
Chiefs of divisions of educational extension, school libraries, visual 

instruction, and statistics each. . 3, 000 

Secretary pharmacy board 3, 000 

Specialist in agriculture 2, 750 

Vice director library school 2, 500 

Secretary, teachers retirement fund board 2, 000 

Specialist in vocational education for girls 1, 800 

Seventeen inspectors total. . 42, 300 

Three hundred and thirteen assistants and clerks 

North Carolina: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Two State agents for rural schools each. . 2, 500 

Inspector of high schools 2, 500 

Supervisor teacher training 2, 000 

Statistical secretary 1, 500 

Chief clerk 1, 800 

Two clerks total . . 1, 500 

North Dakota: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Deputy 2, 400 

Rural-school inspector 2, 000 

High-school inspector 2, 000 

Three clerks 

Ohio: 

Superintendent of public instruction 4, 000 

Assistant superintendent 2, 500 

Chief clerk 1,750 

Examination clerk 1, 800 

Statistician 1, 500 

Supervisor of normal schools 3, 600 

Supervisor of rural schools 2, 000 

Four agricultural supervisors each. . 2, 000 

Two high-school inspectors (full time) each. . 2, 000 

Five high-school inspectors (half time) each . . 1, 000 

Four clerks total.. 5,040 

OTdahoma: 

State superintendent of public instruction 2, 500 

Assistant superintendent 1, 800 

Statistician 1, 600 

Secretary State board of education 2, 000 

High-school inspector 2, 000 

Chief clerk 1, 600 

Three clerks totkl . . 3, 400 



STATE DEPAETMENTS 07 EDUCATION STAFFS. 45 

Oregon: 

Superintendent of public instruction 13, 000 

Two assistant State superintendents total . . 4, 300 

Two field workers total. . 3, 800 

Three clerks 

Pennsylvania: 

Superintendent of public instruction 5, 000 

Two deputy superintendents each. . 2, 000 

Four high-school inspectors each . . 2, 000 

Expert, agricultural education 2, 000 

Expert, industrial education 2, 000 

Expert, drawing 2, 000 

Four clerks each . . 1, 400 

Five stenographers each . . 1, 000 

Three examiners and school visitors, biireau of professional education. . 

Rhode Island: 

Commissioner of public schools 5, 000 

Assistant commissioner 

Four clerks 

South Carolina: 

State superintendent of education 1, 900 

Assistant State superintendent 

State high-school inspector 

State supervisor of elementary rural schools 

South Dakota: 

State superintendent 1, 800 

Deputy superintendent 

Three clerks 

Tennessee: 

Superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Chief clerk 2,000 

High-school inspector 2, 500 

Head clerk 1,200 

Three clerks 

Supersasor of industrial work .^ 2, 100 

Supersdsor of elementary schools 2, 500 

Supervisor of elementary schools for negroes 2, 500 

Texas: 

State superintendent of public instruction 2, 500 

Assistant to State superintendent 

Chief clerk 

Statistician 

Auditor 

Foxn' clerks 

Utah: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

State high-school inspector 

Chief clerk 

Five clerks 

Vermont: 

State superintendent of education 2, 500 

Chief clerk 900 

Chief statistician 700 



46 STATE DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION" — ORGANIZATION. 

Virginia: 

Superintendent of public instruction $3, 500 

Chief clerk and secretary to State board of education 2, 750 

Three inspectors for white schools each . . 2, 000 

Inspector for colored schools 2, 500 

Statistical clerk 2, 000 

Six clerks total.. 6,000 

Washington: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Assistant superintendent 1, 800 

Deputy superintendent 1, 800 

High-school inspector 2, 000 

Secretary State board of examiners 1, 200 

Field organizer for agricultural and industrial work 

Four clerks, total 3, 900 

West Virginia: 

State superintendent 4, 000 

Chief clerk 1,800 

Supervisor of high schools 2, 500 

Supervisor of rural schools 2, 500 

Supervisor of examinations 1, 800 

Secretary State board of regents 2, 500 

Chief statistician 1, 200 

Supervisor of agricultural education (part time) 600 

Supervisor of rural schools for negroes (part time) 600 

Four clerks total. . 4, 120 

Wisconsin: 

State superintendent 5, 000 

Assistant superintendent 

Assistant for industrial education 

Chief clerk 

Two high-school inspectors 

Two rural-school inspectors 

Five school inspectors 

One inspector of domestic science 

One inspector of schools for deaf 

Two library clerks 

Certificate clerk 

Other clerks 

Wyoming: 

State superintendent of public instruction 3, 000 

Deputy State superintendent of public instruction 1, 500 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[KoTE.— With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmaim. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thorndike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

*No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
*No. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Faculties for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
*No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. The teaching stall of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thorndike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1907. 
*No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
*No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

*No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

*No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
*No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 50 cts. 
*No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 cts. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 



II BULLETIlSr OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 1908-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. Harlan Updegraff. 20 cts. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

*No. 1. A course of study for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F. Mutchler and W.J. Craig. 5cts. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Poiut and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 

*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. 5 cts. [ Later publication, 1913, No. 12. 10 cts.] 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrick. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics, No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
*No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
*No. IS. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. 5 cts. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegrafl and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 
*No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. Dawson Johnston £:nd Isadore G. 

Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics, No. III. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-1911. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
*No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Chas. Goldziher. 

No. 30. La tin- American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
*No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. Sets. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1 Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 

*No. 2. Training courses for rui-al teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 

tNo. 6. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. HI 

♦No. 6. Agricultural instruction in high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenks. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Ktngsley. 15 cts. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

fNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

tNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

fNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efflciency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

*No. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

fNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

*No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
*No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States. Georg Kerschensteiner. 

5 cts. 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
fNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

*No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
*No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
*No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational sxu^ey of Montgomery County, Md. 
tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
*No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
*No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
*No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
*No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmann. 
*No. 40. The reorganized school playgroimd. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
*No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
*No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
*No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

*No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
*No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Teimessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and Adams Phillips. 

No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 
*No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
*No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational put lications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislationand judicial decisionsrelatingtoeducation,Octoberl,lS09,toOctoberl, 1912. James 

C. Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 

No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

♦No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
♦No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfield. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. R. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1914. 
*No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Farnum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 

No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. WUliam P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 

No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. ConsoUdation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. I. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home — Part I. General statement. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part II. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home — Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home — Part IV. Bibliography, lists of schools. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Overholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural school teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 
No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 
No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 
No. 4. The health of school children. W. H. Heck. 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN. 1915. NO. 6 WHOLE NUMBER 630 



A STUDY OF THE 

COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS IN THE 

NORTH CENTRAL ASSOCIATION 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCXmED FROH 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

15 CENTS PER COPY 



CONTENTS, 



Part 1.— Report on the approved colleges and universities of the North Cen- 
tral Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools 5 

Introduction 5 

Statistical inquiry 6 

Control 12 

Educational organization 12 

Admissions 12 

Registration of students 14 

Special and irregular students 15 

Requirements for graduation 16 

Degrees conferred 17 

Honorary degrees 18 

Graduate study 18 

Preparatory departments 19 

Size of college classes 19 

Faculty 22 

Hours of instruction 25 

Material equipment 25 

Part II. — Approved high schools of the North Central Association of Colleges 

and Secondary Schools 31 

Introduction 31 

Location of schools 36 

Enrollment , 39 

The teaching staff 55 

Distribution of work 72 

Length of school year, school day, etc 81 

Concerning graduation 84 

The ranking of the students who go to college 88 

Occupations of class graduating in 1913 92 

Material equipment 93 

Library facilities 100 

Course of study 106 

Summary 125 

Index , 129 

3 



FIGURES. 

Page. 
Figure 1. First and third quartiles and median enrollment 40 

2. Distribution of students in the four high-school years in Montana, 

Missouri, Indiana, and the entire North Central Association 43 

3. Distribution of students in the four high-school years in different 

groups of cities 44 

4. Number of students in different high-school years (in entire associa- 

tion) 45 

5. Percentage of students dropping out of school in different high-school 

years 46 

6. Median number of students per class in schools having different 

enrollments 49 

7. Relation between size of classes and enrollment 50 

8. Median number of students per teacher in schools having different 

enrollments 53 

9. A comparison of the number of teachers to the number of new teachers 

and inexperienced teachers 57 

10. Showing the percentage of new teachers and the percentage of new 

teachers who are inexperienced in cities having a population, re- 
spectively (reading from the top), of over 50,000, 15,001-50,000, 
10,001-15,000, 7,501-10,000, 5,001-7,500, 2,501-5,000, under 2,500. . 61 

11. Salaries of teachers in different groups of cities 63 

12. Salaries of teachers, principals, and superintendents, compared 68 

13. The first section of each bar represents the median salary of teachers, 

the first and second the median salary of principals, and the first, 
second, and third the median salary of superintendents 70 

14. Relation between the highest ranking student, the lowest ranking 

student, and the average of the class 89 

15. Percentage of class graduating in 1913 who are in various pursuits. . 91 

16. Per cent of units given in each subject in 1913-14 115 

17. Percentage of EngHsh, Latin, manual training, and drawing in schools 

of different enrollments 121 

18. Percentage of units given in total languages, total science, and math- 

ematics, etc., in schools of different enrollments 123 

4 



A STUDY OF THE COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS IN THE NORTH 
CENTRAL ASSOCIATION, 



PART L— REPORT ON THE APPROVED COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES OF 
THE NORTH CENTRAL ASSOCMTION OF COLLEGES AND SECONDARY 
SCHOOLS, 

By Charles H. Judd, 
Secretary of the Commission of the A ssocialion. 



INTRODUCTION. 



At the meeting of the North Central Association held in 1913 a list 
of colleges and universities prepared on the basis of standards previ- 
ously adopted by the association was approved and ordered to be 
published . Furthermore, the officers of the commission were directed 
to prepare and publish a summary of all of the returns made by col- 
leges and universities on the blanks used in collecting information. 
At the meeting held in March, 1914, by the same routine, a revised 
list was prepared and approved. The approved list of 1914 is based 
on the same standards as the earlier list. These standards are as 
follows : 

Standards of Accrediting Colleges and Universities. 

The standard American college is a college with a four-year curriculum with a 
tendency to differentiate its parts in such a way that the first two years are a continua- 
tion of, and a supplement to, the work of secondary instruction as given in the high 
school, while the last two years are shaped more or less distinctly in the direction of 
special, professional, or university instruction. 

The following constitute the standards for accrediting colleges for the present year: 

1. The minimum scholastic requirement of all college teachers shall be equivalent to 
graduation from a college belonging to this association, and graduate work equal at 
least to that required for a master's degree. Graduate study and training in research 
equivalent to that required for the Ph. D. degree are urgently recommended, but the 
teacher's success is to be determined by the efBciency of his teaching, as well as by 
his research work. 

2. The college shall require for admission not less than 14 secondary units, as defined 
by this association. 

3. The college shall require not less than 120 semester hours for graduation. 

4. The college shall be provided with library and laboratory equipment suflBcient 
to develop fully and illustrate each course announced. 

5. The college, if a corporate institution, shall possess a productive endowment of 
not less than $200,000. 

6. The college, if a tax-supported institution, shall receive an annual income of not 
less than $100,000. 

5 



t> STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

7. The college shall maintain at least eight distinct departments in liberal arts, each 
with at least one professor giving full time to the college work in that department. 

8. The location and construction of the buildings, the lighting, heating, and ventil- 
ation of the rooms, the nature of the laboratoiies. corridors, closets, water supply, 
school furniture, apparatus, and methods of cleaning shall be such as to insure hygienic 
conditions for both students and teachers. 

9. The number of hours of work given by each teacher will vary in the different 
departments. To determine this, the amount of preparation required for the class 
and the time needed for study to keep abreast of the subject, together with the number 
of students, must be taken into account: but in no case shall more than 18 hours per 
week be required, 15 being recommended as a maximum. 

10. The college must be able to prepare its graduates to enter recognized graduate 
schools as candidates for advanced degrees. 

11. The college should limit the number of students in a recitation or laboratory 
class to 30. 

12. The character of the curriculum, the efficiency of instruction, the scientific 
spirit, the standard for regular degrees, the conservatism in granting honorary degrees, 
and the tone of the institution shall also be factors in determining eligibility. 

No institution shall be accredited or retained on the accredited list unless a regular 
blank has been filed with the commission, and is filed triennially unless the inspectors 
have waived the presentation of the triennial blank. 

The following blank was employed in securing statistics in 1914: 

STATISTICAL INQUIRY. 

Name of institution Address 

President Registrar 

Control (sectarian. State, or other) 

^Educational organization. Draw a line through the name of each division or school 
which is represented in your Institution by a separate organization. If the work is 
organized merely as a department, do not mark the name in this list; mark only the 
college or school including that department. Graduate school, college of Liberal 
arts, college of science, engineering school, school of mines, school of civil engi- 
neering, school of chemistry, school of electrical engineering, college of music, 

■' college of agriculture, law school, medical school, school of education, school of 
fine arts (other than music), school of pharmacy, school of dentistiy, school of 
oratory, school of commerce. 

Mention any others 

Do you have a preparatory department? 

Does the same student in any case take both preparatory- and college courses? 

In case students do thus take courses in preparatory and college classes, do not include 

• them in any of the answers of thi's report dealing with students. 

Is the preparatory department separate in equipment from the rest of the institu- 
tion? 

What per cent of the preparatory- faculty is entirely occupied in preparator}- teach- 
ing? " 

ADMISSION TO COLLEGE. 

How many units required for admission to college? 

Maximum number of admission conditions allowed in college 

Are students admitted on certificate from schools not on this association's list? 

If so, what steps are taken to determine the adequacy of preparation in such schools? 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 7 

KEGISTRATION AND GRADUATION. 

Number of new students entering this year 

Number of students attending classes at this date (include all departments above the preparatory) 

Number of students in college of arts and science 

Distinguish between two classes of special or unclassified students and report for each: 

(a) Those who are mature and are allowed access to classes without detailed classification 

(6) Those who are conditioned or otherwise recognized as unqualified to receive regular classification. 

Include here all conditioned students whether technically special or not 

Number of hours required for graduation (express in semester hours or quarter hours) 

Do you require physical education or public speaking? 

If so, are these requirements included in above statement of hours? 

Number of all degrees granted last academic year for work in course (give details, stating specifically 

number of each degree) 

Number of all honorary degrees granted last academic year (give details, stating specifically number of 
each degree) 

GRADUATE STUDY. 

Are graduates now pursuing graduate courses? If so, where (mention four or five institutions, giving 
where possible the names of students so that their records may be looked up)? 

SIZE OF DIVISION. 

(By "division" is meant a group of students meeting together for a regular exercise in a course. Thus, 
if there is one meeting of a chemistry class for lecture and this class then breaks up into laboratory divi- 
sions, treat this as one lecture division and as several laboratory divisions.) 

Number of students in each of the five largest lecture divisions 

Number in five largest recitation divisions 

Number in five largest laboratory divisions 

Number of students in each of the five smallest divisions 

Exact average of all divisions. (If this average can not be given exactly, mark it as estimate) 

FACULTY. 

(The distinction between those who are responsible for classes and assistants who are not full members 
of the faculty is the matter referred to in the first question.) 

Number of faculty members in independent charge of classes 

Number of faculty members giving both college and preparatory work 

Number of faculty members giving part time to regular, salaried engagements outside college 

FACULTY RANK. 

(Do not include in this list student assistants except in the last item.) 

Men. Women. 



Professors 

Associate professors. 
Assistant professors. 

Instructors 

Lower ranks 



DEPARTMENTS. 

Check the departments in the following list in which at least the full time of one professor is devoted to col- 
lege instruction to the exclusion of any other teaching: 

English, modem languages, ancient languages, history, social science, mathematics, physical science, 
biological science. 

INSTRUCTION. 

In this paragraph distinguish between laboratory work and lecture or recitation exercises. Report the 
full time; do not treat two hours of laboratory work as equivalent to one hour of recitation. 

Number of hours per week of instruction given by five members of faculty in each of the classes (o) and 

(6) who have the heaviest program: (o) Including laboratory ; (6) recitation or lecture 

only 

TRAINING OF FACULTY. 

Number members of faculty responsible for classes who are not college graduates 

Number of same who have not taken graduate work 



MATERUL EQUIPMENT. 



Value of grounds (not including buildings) 

Buildings other than dormitories: Number ; aggregate value. 

Dormitories and residences: Number ; aggregate value 



8 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Equipment other than buildings and grounds: 

Books — Number ; value 

Laboratory equipment used in science instruction 

Other apparatus and fumishiags of all kinds — value 

Indebtedness 

If there is any reason why indebtedness should not be subtracted from productive endowment, explain why. 

Endowment, as given in your ordinary reports 

Productive endowment (include under this item only funds free from all liens of any kind. Do not include 

annuities; do not include investment in dormitories) 

Income from endowment 

Income other than special gifts and endowment: State ; denomination ; other sources (not 

including tuition) ; tuition 

Special gifts last academic year 

Expenditures last academic year: 

Salaries paid for instruction and administration in college or university 

Salaries in other divisions: Preparatory ; buildings and grounds salaries 

Erection of new buildings 

Equipment other than books 

Books 

These blanks were sent to all institutions which were included in 
the list of 1913 and also to all institutions which, in the course of the 
year, made application to the secretary of the commission for con- 
sideration at the 1914 meeting. Attention should be called ex- 
plicitly to the fact that the approved list has never purported to 
include the names of all worthy institutions in the territory of the 
association. Initiative has always been left entirely to the institu- 
tions; and unless they explicitl}^ applied for admission to the asso- 
ciation, their cases have never been canvassed. 

The officers of the commission, acting as a committee on the 
approved list, rendered a report suggesting a modification in the mode 
of procedure of the association. This report, which is given in full 
below, was adopted by the association and will be the basis of proce- 
dure at the meeting of the commission in 1915. 

Report of the Officers of the Commission. 

The officers of the commission were directed to bring in recommendations regarding 
two matters: First, a suitable definition of junior colleges, and second, the disposition 
of the cases of those normal schools and teachers' colleges which have been for some 
time members of the association and were last year put on an unclassified list. In 
attempting to deal with these matters, and also in the cotirse of their revision of the 
approved list of colleges, your committee has become increasingly aware of the marked 
differences between the institutions in this territory which receive graduates of high 
schools and continue the education of such graduates. The present standards for 
colleges and universities were evidently drawn up with the college of arts and science 
as the chiefs if not the sole object of consideration. In view of the present standards, 
the association obviously has before it two possible courses. The present standards 
can be maintained and strengthened, when membership in the association will be 
limited ; or a policy of expansion can be adopted which will necesatate a modification 
of the standards and a thorough revision of the approved list. 

The small exclusive membership seems at first sight to have certain advantages. 
The relation to high schools seems to be relatively simple. The association promises 
to be fairly homogeneous. The standards are relatively easy to enforce. On the 
other hand, it is to be noted that even the present small list includes institutions of 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 9 

widely different character. For example, about one-half of the institutions on the 
approved list pay their faculties less than |30,000 per annum, while at the other end 
of the list are institutions paying their faculties $500,000 or more. These figures show 
that in range of coiu-ses and in point of size the institutions now on the list differ very 
widely ; so that the effort to keep relations within the association simple can hardly be 
expected to succeed. 

All these considerations have led your committee to the recommendation which, 
they now submit, that the list of approved institutions be enlarged. It is recom- 
mended that an alphabetical list of all institutions which continue the education of 
students beyond 15 units of high-school work be prepared. Following the name 
of the institution shall be set down an exact statement of certain facts, such as the 
following: 

(1) Number of the faculty in independent charge of classes. 

(2) Number of faculty wdth the degree of doctor of philosophy. 

(3) Number of matriculated students. 

(4) Number of degrees granted in course. 

(5) Number of elementary courses of instruction actually given. 

(6) Number of advanced courses. 

(7) Number of professional courses. 

(8) Expenditures for salaries. 

(9) Hours of class instruction required of members of the faculty. 
(10) Material equipment. 

This list shall then be submitted to the commission, and the commission shall 
determine its standards with the facts before it. Thus the commission shall determine 
the limits permitted in each of the categories above described. Furthermore, the 
categories which are deemed essential to admission to a classified list shall be deter- 
mined, and the list shall then be made up automatically, subject to annual review. 
The approved list and the facts which it presents shall be published. 

The officers of the commission do not, it will be observed, offer in this plan any 
definition of a junior college, nor do they distinguish between colleges and univer- 
sities, or colleges and normal schools. They recommend rather a comprehensive 
formula including all grades of institutions. They anticipate that the result of the 
adoption of this plan will be the ultimate development of a system of rating which 
may be used for high schools as well as for higher institutions. 

The administrative system for carrying out the enterprise is not negligible. The 
officers recommend the following plan of operation: When a new institution applies 
for admission to the list, it shall pay a fee of 125. It shall further open its records to 
the officers of the commission and fill out such blanks as the officers shall prepare 
under the approval of the commission. An institution on the approved list shall 
be responsible at intervals of at least three years to supply in a form to be determined 
by the commission such information as may be necessary to keep the approved list 
revised and up to date. An annual fee of $10 shall be paid by all institutions on the 
list, except that no institution shall pay the $10 fee in the same year that it has paid 
the inspection fee of $25. The officers of the commission shall be empowered to use 
the fund thus created for piuposes of personal visit to institutions, for blanks, corre- 
spondence, and for printing of reports. A comprehensive annual report shall be 
printed showing the operations of the commission in the preparation of the final list. 

In preparing the list of colleges and universities for 1914 the officers 
of the commission scrutinized with special care those institutions in 
the hst of 1913 which stood low in the tables reported for the year 
1913; that is, if an institution had a large indebtedness, note was 
made of the fact that in Table XXIII of the report of 1913 that par- 
[ticular institution had a low standing; if the number of books in the 



10 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS, 

library was small, note was made of the fact that that particular 
institution had a low rating in Table XXII, and so on through the 
list. When it was found that a given institution had low rating in 
several different tables, this institution was set aside to be especially 
examined by the committee. If, on the other hand, an institution 
had a low standing in only one or two of the tables and the report 
rendered in 1914 on the blank was substantially the same as that of 
the previous year, the committee passed favorably on the institution 
without hesitation. 

In addition to the information which was presented in the report 
of 1913, the committee also utilized the returns given to the Comis- 
sioner of Education of the United States by the colleges on the 
approved list. A careful tabulation was made of the facts reported 
to the Commissioner of Education; and the colleges were rated in the 
order of their high standing in the various items collected by the 
Bureau of Education. It was found that the 10 institutions which 
were dropped from the approved list of 1913 because of their low 
standing in the tables of the North Central Association also appeared 
among the 13 lowest in the classification based upon the returns to 
the Commissioner of Education. Special note should be made of the 
fact that the University of Kentucky disappeared from the approved 
list of the North Central Association wholly on the ground that this 
institution lies within the territory of the Southern Association, and 
it was deemed wise, both in the cases of high schools and colleges, to 
leave the Southern Association to deal with aU institutions in its own 
territory. The list of 72 colleges and universities as finally approved 
in 1914 includes 10 new institutions not in the list of 1913. The new 
institutions are in italics. The full list is as foUows: 

List of Approved Colleges and Universities op the North Central Asso- 
ciation, 1914. 

Ohio: Ohio — •Continued. 

Case School of Applied Science, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati. 

Cleveland. Western College for Women, Oxford. 

Denison University, Granville. Western Reserve University, Cleve- 

Heidelberg University, Tiffin. land. 

Hiram College, Hiram. Michigan: 

Kenyon College, Gambier. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. 

Lake Erie College, Painesville. Indiana: 

Marietta College, Marietta. Indiana University, Bloomington. 

Miami University, Oxford. Purdue University, La Fayette. 

Mount Union College, Alliance. University of Notre Dame, Notre 

Oberlin College, Oberlin. Dame. 

Ohio State University, Columbus. Wabash College, Crawfordsville. 

Ohio University, Athens. Illinois: 

Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware. Augustana College, Rock Island. 

Otterbein University, Westerville. Bradley Polytechnic Institute, Junior 

Municipal University of Akron, Akron. College, Peoria. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



11 



List of Approved Colleges and Universities of the North Central Asso- 
ciation, 1914 — Continued. 



Illinois — Continued. 

Illinois College, Jacksonville. 

Illinois Woman's College, Jackson- 
ville. 

Knox College, Galesburg. 

Lake Forest College, Lake Forest. 

Lewis Institute, Junior College, Chi- 
cago. 

Lombard College, Galesburg. 

James Millihin University, Decatur. 

Monmouth College, Monmouth. 

Northwestern College, Naperville. 

Northwestern University, Evanston. 

Rockford College for Women, Rock- 
ford. 

University of Chicago, Chicago. 

LTniversity of Illinois, Urbana. 
Wisconsin: 

Beloit College, Beloit. 

Carroll College, Waukesha. 

Lawrence College, Appleton. 

Milwaukee-Downer College, Milwau- 
kee. 

Ripon College, Ripon. 

University of Wisconsin, Madison. 
Minnesota: 

Carleton College, Northfield. 

Hamlin University, St. Paul. 

University of Minnesota, Minneapo- 
lis. 
Iowa: 

Coe College, Cedar Rapids. 

Cornell College, Mount Vernon. 

Drake University, Des Moines. 

Grinnell College, Grinnell. 



Iowa — Continued . 

Morningside College, Sioux City. 

Parsons College, Fairfield. 

Simpson College, Indianola. 

State University of Iowa, Iowa City. 
Missouri: 

Park College, Parkville. 

University of Missouri, Columbia. 

Washington University, St. Louis. 
Nebraska: 

Doane College, Crete. 

Nebraska Wesleyan University, Uni' 
versity Place. 

University of Nebraska, Lincoln. 
Kansas: 

Baker University, Baldwin. 

College of Emporia, Emporia. 

Ottawa University, Ottawa. 

University of Kansas, Lawrence. 

Washburn College, Topeka. 
Colorado: 

University of Colorado, Boulder. 

University of Denver, University Park. 
Oklahoma: 

University of Oklahoma, Norman. 
South Dakota: 

State University of South Dakota, 
Vermilion . 
North Dakota: 

University of North Dakota, Uni- 
versity. 
Montana: 

State University of Montana, Mis- 
soula. 



Unclassified list of teachers' colleges and normal schools adopted for the year 1914-15. 

Illinois State Normal University, Normal, Winona State Normal School, Winona, 

111. Minn. 

Southern Illinois State Normal Univer- Iowa State Teachers' College, Cedar Falla, 

sity, Carbondale, III. Iowa. 

Western Illinois State Normal School, State Normal School, Kirksville, Mo. 

Macomb, 111. 

The details of the reports received on the 1914 blanks are sum- 
marized in the following pages. The numbers of the tables are the 
same as in the report for 1913.^ 



1 Published as monograpli supplement No. IV of the School Review. 



12 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



CONTROL. 

Twenty-eight of the institutions in the Hst of 1914 are independent 
of State or denominational control. This is an increase of six over 
the number of independent institutions included in the list of 1913. 
On the other hand, the number of denominational institutions is less. 
In 1913 it was 31; in the list of 1914 there are only 24 such institu- 
tions; 10 of these 24 are under the control of the Methodist Church; 
7 are under the control of the Presbyterian Church. The others 
belong to various other denominations. The degree to which denomi- 
nations support the institutions connected with them is presented in 
the following table. A new institution under municipal control 
appears in the list of 1914. This is the University of Akron in Ohio. 
Buchtel College was turned over by its trustees to the municipality 
of Akron. 

Table I. — Denominational support of educational institutions. 



None 3 

Indefinite 1 

Less than $1,000 5 

$1,000-$2,000 2 

82,0OO-$3,000 2 

$3,000-84,000 1 

$4,000-85,000 2 



$5,000-87,000 2 

810,000-811,000 2 



813,000-814,000. 
815,000-816,000. 
$25,000-$26,000. 
$30,000-$40,000. 



EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. 

Seventeen of the institutions in the list of 1914, as contrasted with 
16 in 1913, report no departments other than the college of arts, 
literature, and science. Two engineering institutions continue to 
hold their place in the list. The details of organization of the institu- 
tions are presented in Table II. 

Table II. — Number of institutions reporting special departments. 



Music 27 

Fine art 11 

Medicine 18 

Pharmacy 13 

Dentistry 7 

Law 23 



Engineering 18 

Electrical engineering 2 

Civil engineering 2 

Mining engineering 3 

Chemical engineering 2 

Architecture 1 



Agriculture 6 

Oratory 8 

Commerce 13 

Divinity 3 

Education 18 

others 19 



ADMISSIONS. 

In general it may be said that there is a tendency for specific 
requirements of admission to be relaxed. There is, on the other 
hand, a clear tendency to make more rigid the adherence to the 
requirements for admission which the institutions announce. Two 
institutions on the Ust of 1914 admit students presenting 14 imits of 
preparatory work. This is one less than in the list of 1913. Sixty- 
four institutions require 15 units; six require 16. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



13 



CONDITIONS. 



The following table shows aU of the facts with regard to the admis- 
sion of students with conditions. Especial attention is to be drawn 
to the fact that 9 institutions allow no conditions, as contrasted with 
5 in 1913; 23 allow only one condition, as contrasted with 18 in 1913. 
This shows a marked tendency to enforce requirements more fully 
than a year ago. 

Table III. — Admission of students with conditions. 



Units required. 


Number of 
institutions 
allowing no 
conditions. 


Allowing , 

one 
condition. 


One and 

one-half 

conditions. 


Two 
conditions. 


Three 
conditions. 


Total. 


14 


1 
8 





23 




1 
5 




24 

4 



3 
2 


2 


15 


63 


10 


6 







METHODS OF ADMIf^ 



The practice of institutions in admit ts from high schools 

not on the approved list is much the Si. is last year. State 

lists are evidently much more liberal tnan the hsts of the North 
Central Association. In Bulletin No. 29 for the year 1913 the United 
States Bureau of Education presented a list of all of the accredited 
secondary schools in the United States.^ This list shows very clearly 
that institutions in this association are much more liberal in their 
policies of admission than is the North Central Association. In the 
Southern Association the question has been raised very pointedly 
whether it is wise to make a list of secondary schools which shaU be 
so exclusive that no institution can base its admissions entirely on 
this list. If the North Central Association is to have a small ex- 
clusive list of secondary schools to which little or no attention is 
paid in the various States, its influence is not hkely to increase. The 
statement that the North Central hst is used as the basis of admission 
when students go outside the State probably has little force in actual 
practice. Furthermore, the number of students who go outside of 
the territory of the State institution to which they are most directly 
related is so small that this particular motive on the part of a high 
school for securing admission to the association's list is relatively weak. 

The comments made in the reports of various colleges indicate that 
adherence to the standards of the North Central Association is not 
commonly required. One institution, for example, says that the 
North Central Association blanks are required to be filled out in full, 
but that is the only institution which makes any explicit reference 
to such a practice. Several institutions canvass individual cases 

> For a revision of this list, see Bulletin, 1915, No. 7. 



14 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



through members of the faculty. Several report a probationary 
system. There are stiU 12 institutions that have inspectors of their 
own working in parallel with the inspectors from the State univer- 
sities. Two institutions report that they keep a careful record of 
the work done in college by students from the different high schools 
in their territory and base their acceptance of new students on the 
records of past students. Evidently there is a good deal of general 
activity going on in the effort to enlarge the list approved by the 
North Central Association. 



REGISTRATION OF STUDENTS. 

The information collected in 1914 with regard to registration of 
students is much more exact than the information that was avail- 
able for the report of 1913. Table IV gives the results in two columns 
showing the number of new students entering institutions in 1913-14 
and also the number of students now in attendance in all of the 
departments above the preparatory department. 

Table IV. — New students in 1914; whole number above preparatory department. 





1-50 


51-100 


101- 
150 


151- 
200 


201- 
250 


251- 
300 


301- 
350 


351- 
400 


401- 
450 


451- 
500 


501- 
550 


551- 
600 


Distribution of institutions 
as to number of matricu- 
lants 


1 


19 


8 

7 


14 
9 


4 
8 


1 
7 


1 
3 




2 

1 


3 

1 


3 
1 


1 


As to present registration.. 


7 


3 












601- 
650 


651- 
700 


701- 
800 


801- 
850 


851- 
900 


951- 
1,000 


1,001- 
1,500 


1,501- 
2,000 


2,001- 
3,000 


3,001- 
4,000 


Over 
4,000 


Distribution of institu- 
tions as to number of 
matriculants 



2 





3 






3 





3 


2 


1 






As to present registration. . 




1 









1 




1 




7 




3 




4 


2 


4 



Table IV A shows the ratio between matriculants and the total 
number of students in the institution. The impressive fact which is 
here presented is that a very large number of the institutions in the 
association matriculate half or nearly half of their students each year. 
The problem of maintaining attendance at institutions of the type 
which thus change their student population to the extent of one-half 
each year is an important consideration in determining the status of 
the institutions. Evidently the range of elective opportunities offered 
in many institutions is so small that students do not find it possible 
to continue their work profitably for more than two or three years. 
There can be no doubt that many students are attracted away from 
coUege departments to attend technical schools of law, medicine, or 
engineering. It is fair to raise the question in this connection 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



15 



whether it would not be better for many institutions to face frankly 
the fact that their students are likely to leave them after a short 
period. If such is the case, it might be better to specialize on those 
lines of instruction which are appropriate to a short course as dis- 
tinguished from the supposed four-year course which institutions now 
attempt to administer. 

Table IV A. — Ratio of matriculants to total number of students .^ 





70-61 
per cent. 


60-51 
per cent. 


50-41 
per cent. 


40-31 
per cent. 


30-21 
per cent. 


20-11 
per cent. 


Number of institutions having percentage 
of matriculants 


4 


10 


28 


18 


6 


3 







1 No report from three institutions. 



SPECIAL AND IRREGULAR STUDENTS. 

Table V, showing the percentages of special and irregular students, 
exhibits a marked improvement over the conditions that were 
reported in 1913. Thus in 1913 the number of institutions that were 
able to report that they had no students who had not satisfied the 
entrance requirements was only 4. At the present time the number 
of institutions able to make this report is 10. In 1913 only 3 insti- 
tutions were able to report that they had less than 2 per cent of their 
students who had not satisfied the entrance requirements. There are 
12 such institutions at the present time. The extreme lower end of 
the table is also much improved, though this is due in part to elimina- 
tion of institutions from the list. In 1913 there were 3 institutions 
with more than 30 per cent of their students who had not satisfied the 
entrance requirements. These institutions have disappeared from 
the list. There are still 3 institutions with more than 20 per cent of 
their students who have not satisfied the entrance requirements, but 
from the movement which is apparent during the year, this number 
is sure to decrease. The matter was made the subject of special 
discussion at the last meeting of the association. Doubtless many 
institutions are finding rehef from this difficulty in the fact that they 
are changing their entrance requirements so as to require less specific 
work and more of the type of work which can be supplied by the 
high schools in their territory 



16 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



Table V. — Number of institutions having various percentages of special students when 
these are compared with total attendance — Also number of institutions having various 
percentages of students who have not satisfied all entrance requirements when these are 
compared ivith the total attendance. 





Oper 
cent. 


0.1-1 
per 
cent. 


1.1-2 
per 
cent. 


2.1-3 
per 
cent. 


3.1-4 
per 
cent. 


4.1-5 
per 
cent. 


5.1-6 
per 
cent. 


6.1-7 
per 
cent. 


7.1-8 
per 
cent. 


8.1-9 
per 
cent. 


9.1- 

10 

per 

cent. 


Number of institutions having a 
given percentage of special or 


13 
10 


14 

8 


6 
4 


8 
5 


8 
5 


4 
2 


2 
3 


2 
3 




4 


1 
2 


1 


Number of institutions having a 
given percentage of students 
who have not satisfied the 
entrance requirements ^ 


1 









10.1- 


11.1- 


12.1- 


13.1- 


14.1- 


15.1- 


16.1- 


17.1- 


18.1- 


19.1- 


20.1- 


25.1- 




11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


19 


20 


25 


30 




per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


Number of institutions 


























having a given percent- 
age of special or unclassi- 
fied students ' 





1 


3 
















1 




Number of institutions 


















having a given percent- 
age of students who have 


























not satisfied the en- 


























trance requirements 2 








2 


2 


1 


2 





1 






1 


2 









Eight institutions not reporting. 



2 Fourteen institutions not reporting. 



REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION. 

Some effort was made in the blanks used this year to find out 
whether the institutions having different requirements for admission 
based their calculations on differences with regard to physical educa- 
tion, public speaking, and other irregular courses. It appears that 
these irregular courses do not account in any large measure for the 
discrepancies in graduation requirements. Thus the institutions 
which require 120 semester hours for graduation include 3 which 
require public speaking and count public speaking as a part of the 
120 semester hours. Among the institutions which require a larger 
number of semester hours for graduation there are some which 
explain the additional requirements by the fact that they include 
public speaking. Thus 1 institution which requires 125 semester 
hours includes public speaking; 2 which require 128 semester hours 
include public speaking. The table in general, even after deductions 
are made of these few cases, shows that there are real discrepancies 
between the requirements for graduation, since there are several 
institutions requiring as high as 133 semester hours for graduation 
which do not include public speaking or other extra courses in the 
list of their requirements. 

One item which was not included in the report, but is suggested by 
a study of these differences in the amoimt of work required for grad- 



I 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



17 



■uation, is the item of the length of the college year. Many institu- 
tions open a week or more earlier in the autumn than other institu- 
tions in the hst. Probably the length of session ought to be included 
in any report on the colleges exactly as it is included in the standards 
for secondary schools in the association. 

Even in secondary schools, as appears in the report prepared by 
Mr. Counts, there is great variation in the amount of work which con- 
stitutes a year's course. 

Table VI. — Amount of work required for graduation.^ 





116 
1 


117 
1 


118 
2 


119 
2 


120 
33 


122 
3 


124 

8 


125 
2 


126 
3 


128 

7 


130 
1 


132 
1 


133 
1 


164-176 




1 
















180 

1 






188 
1 






195 
1 


































































36 
2 









































































I 



1 One institution reports in wholly different terms, indicating its requirements as 400 to 450 points. 
The following definition of the term "point" is given: One hour per week of class work not requiring 
preparation counts one point. Prepared work one hour per week counts two and one-half points. 

2 A major is a 12- week course meeting four or five times a week. 

DEGREES CONFERRED. 

Table VII is significant as indicating an increase over the number 
of degrees granted by institutions in the association in 1913. There 
were, however, several omissions of reports in this matter last year 
which rendered the figures incomplete and make it undesirable to 
compare the present table too closely with that reported in the pre- 
vious year. An inspection of Table VIII makes it clear that there is 
a disposition to eliminate all of the variations in degrees and award 
only the bachelor of arts for all sorts of courses. 

Table VII. — Degrees conferred in 1914- 





Undergraduate. 


Graduate. 




A. B. 


B. S. 


B. Ph. 


B. L. 


Total. 


M. A. 


M.S. 


Ph. D. 


Total. 


Number in Report of Com- 
missioner of Education 

Number of degrees in institu- 
tions on the North Central 
list 


14, 154 
4,474 


5,253 
1,957 


1,281 
155 


629 
113 


21,317 
6,699 


2,a50 
622 


429 

88 


509 
103 


3,288 
813 











Table VIII. — Percentage of various degrees conferred. 





Percent- 
age of 
A.B. 


Percent- 
age of 
B. S. 


Percent- 
ages 
Ph. B. 


Percent- 
age of 
B.L. 


Percent- 
age of 
A.M. 


Percent- 
age of 
M.S. 


Percent- 
age of 
Ph.D. 


North Central Association list. . 
Commissioner of Education Re- 
port . 


66.8 
06.4 


29.1 
24.6 


2.3 
6.1 


1.7 
2.9 


76.5 
71.5 


10.8 
13.0 


12.7 
15.5 







18 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



HONORARY DEGREES. 

Table IX, showing the number of honorary degrees granted in the 
institutions in the list, indicates some decrease in the number of such 
degrees conferred. This is in part due to the fact that fewer special 
celebrations fall within the period covered by this report. 

Table IX. — Number of institutions giving honorary degrees, together with the number of 

each of the degrees granted. ' 





None. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


7 


8 


9 


Total. 


Number of institutions giving in toto 

number of degrees at top of column 

Number giving D. D. to extent indicated 

at top of rnlnmn 


25 


14 

<12 
16 
5 
4 
2 
6 


29 

58 
3 
1 
1 


8 

G 
4 


1 


3 
1 




2 


1 


3 124 
55 


LL. D 




1 






41 


A.M 




1 








11 


Sc. D 












6 


L. H. D or D. Litt. or D. Eng. . . . 
















2 


Others 




1 














8 


Grand total 














3 124 
















1 







' No report from three institutions. 

2 This represents 18 degrees. 

3 One degree not specified. 



* This represents 12 D. D.'s. 
6 This represents 16 D. D.'s. 



Table X. 





D.D. 


LL. D. 


A.M. 


Sc. D. 


Literary 
doctor. 


Others. 


Total. 


Number of degrees, Commis- 
sioner of Education list 

Percentage of total North Cen- 


321 
44.3 
36.9 


265 
33.0 
30.4 


129 
8.8 
14.8 


41 
4.8 
4.7 


84 
1.6 
9.6 


31 
6.4 
3.6 


871 


Percentage of total Commis- 









GRADUATE STUDY. 

The 1914 blanks called for detailed and explicit information re- 
garding students who are doing graduate work in the graduate 
schools of the country. It was the intention of the committee to 
foUow up the record of any doubtful institution by finding out what 
credit is awarded in the various graduate departments to these stu- 
dents who are candidates for advanced degrees. The change in the 
mode of rating institutions for 1915 makes it unnecessary to canvass 
in this explicit fashion the records of graduate students. The com- 
mittee will, however, collect during the autumn some statements 
with regard to those institutions which stand at the lower extremes 
of the various tables and wiU be prepared to report to the commission 
in 1915 on the amount of credit commonly given to graduates of 
various institutions in graduate schools. In the meantime, the 
names of the various institutions attended by graduates have some 
interest as indicating the development of graduate work within the 
territory of the association itself. The following list of figures shows 
very little deviation from the report rendered in 1913: Chicago is 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 19 

mentioned 38 times, Harvard 37, Columbia 37, Illinois 21, Yale 17, 
Wisconsin 16, Princeton 14, Johns Hopkins 13, Cornell 13, North- 
western 9, Michigan 7, Pennsylvania 7, Minnesota 7, Oxford, Eng- 
land, 7, California 6, Kansas 6, Bryn Mawr 6, Ohio State 3, and 29 
others from 1 to 3 times. 

PREPARATORY DEPARTMENTS. 

Thirty-four institutions in the association still conduct preparatory 
departments. This year, as last, it has been almost impossible to 
distinguish in statements with regard to the organization of the 
institution between the two branches of the institution. Members 
of the faculty are evidently called upon to serve both in the college 
and preparatory school. With the present development of public 
secondary schools there can be very little doubt that preparatory 
departments are in most cases superfluous. The efforts of various 
standardizing agencies have been turned in the direction of the 
elimination of preparatory departments of colleges. The associa- 
tion should take cognizance of the complication which is here pre- 
sented and should define the type of relationship which it is prepared 
to tolerate in the institutions included in the list. 

SIZE OF COLLEGE CLASSES. 

The information collected for the 1914 report with regard to the 
size of college classes is much more detailed than that collected in 
1913. It was apparent from the figures secured for the 1913 report 
that there is very great irregularity in this matter. A table corre- 
sponding directly to that which was included in the first report is 
presented (Table XI). The figures reported by the colleges were 
evidently again in some cases mere estimates, although the blank 
called explicitly for a statement in this matter. Supplementary 
tables are given in XII A, B, and C, showing the sizes of the largest 
and smallest classes in all of the institutions. These tables draw 
attention very emphatically to the lack of economy which appears 
in the organization of many very small classes. The difference 
between lecture and recitation divisions is also made clear and much 
light is thrown on the differences that obtain in different depart- 
ments in the conduct of class work. The significance of these figures 
for the association in general is not obscure. The association has 
not hesitated to lay down a definite numerical standard for recita^- 
tion and laboratory classes in college and for all high-school classes. 
The secondary schools have a right to ask colleges to standardize 
their practices. The problem of whether a small class should meet 
as frequently as a large class is a pedagogical and economic prob- 
lem that should properly lead to a consideration of the standards in 



20 



STUDY OP COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



the association with reference to both colleges and secondary schools. 
At all events, it is perfectly obvious from an examination of these 
tables that the colleges have not regarded themselves as bound by 
the association's standards or by any of the principles which they 
have enforced in their treatment of the secondary schools. The 
tables covering this matter are given in full detail so that a compari- 
son may be made of all of the different practices in different institu- 
tions in the association. It would have been possible to combine 
the figures so as to give the returns in general terms, but it was 
deemed better to give all of the details so that the practices may 
be exposed to the fullest view and to the careful consideration which 
follows upon such a complete exhibition of the facts. 

Table XI. 





Average size of classes. 




6 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


IS 




1 


2 


1 


1 


1 


1 


4 


7 


4 


3 


1 

















Average size of classes. 












19 


20 


21 


22 


23 


24 


25 


20 


30 


35 


3G 


02 


Number of institutions 


7 


10 


1 


2 


2 


1 


' 


1 


4 


1 


1 


1 



No report from eight institutions. 

Table XII A. — Smallest divisions. 





1 


2 


3 


4 


5 





7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


14 


15 


No 
re- 
port. 


Number of institutions reporting 
smallest class containing given 


33 
3 


12 

9 


9 
11 


4 



12 


4 


1 
















6 


Number of institutions reporting 
the largest of their five smallest 
classes containing given number 
of students 


5 


1 


3 


1 


1 


1 


1 


7 







Table XII B. — Largest lahoratory and recitation divisions. 





5 


6 


8 


9 


10 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


20 


21 


22 


23 


24 


Number of institutions re- 
porting largest laboratory 
division at number given 










1 
4 






1 

7 


2 
5 


1 


1 


2 
1 


2 

8 


4 
2 


2 
3 


2 
3 


4 


Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest of 5 largest 
laboratory divisions at 
number given 


1 


2 


2 


1 


2 


2 


4 


Number of institutions re- 
porting largest recitation 
division 




Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest of 5 largest 
























1 


3 


2 


2 


4 


5 


















1 









STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 21 

Table XII B. — Largest laboratory and recitation divisions — Continued. 





25 


26 


27 


28 


30 


31 


33 


34 


35 


36 


37 


38 


40 


41 


42 


43 


44 


Number of institutions re- 
porting largest laboratory 
division at number given.. 


7 

2 

2 
4 


2 
1 

3 






4 

2 

7 
4 


3 

3 
3 


1 
1 
2 


1 


3 






1 


1 


1 




1 

1 

2 


1 


Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest of 5 largest 
laboratory divisions at 
number given 


1 

1 
2 


1 
1 
1 


2 
2 




1 


Number of institutions re- 
porting largest recitation 
division 


3 


4 
1 


2 
2 


2 
5 


7 
5 


3 
1 


2 
1 


1 


Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest of 5 largest 
recitation divisions 







45 


46 


47 


48 


49 


51 


52 


53 


55 


56 


58 


59 


60 


63 


64 


65 


67 


Number of institutions re- 
porting largest laboratory 
division at number given . . 


2 


2 




1 








1 


1 




1 




1 


1 




1 




Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest of 5 largest 
laboratory divisions at 
number given 










Number of institutions re- 
porting largest recitation 
division 


3 


2 


1 


1 


1 


3 


2 

1 


2 

1 


1 


1 






1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest of 5 largest 
recitation divisions ... 




1 

































71 


74 


75 


76 


77 


82 


86 


90 


93 


95 


98 


100 


110 


121 


139 


153 


No 

re- 
port 


Number of institutions re- 
porting largest laboratory 
division at number given . 

Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest ol 5 larg- 
est laboratory divisions 
at number given 


1 


1 


1 

2 

1 


1 












1 




1 


1 




1 




g 






1 






8 


Number of institutions re- 
porting largest recitation 
division 




1 


1 


1 


1 






1 




1 




1 


g 


Number of institutions re- 
porting smallest of 5 larg- 
est recitation divisions 








1 


8 






■"T""" 





























Table XII C. — Largest lecture divisions. 





3 


11 


12 


20 


21 


23 


24 


26 


27 


28 


29 


30 


31 


33 


34 


35 
1 


37 

1 
1 


38 

— — 


39 


Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
lecture classes of 
size given.. . . 






1 
2 
















5 
1 


1 


1 
1 


3 




Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
smallest of 5 larg- 
est lecture divi- 
sions of size given . 


' ' 


4 


1 


1 


5 


1 


2 


2 


3 


1 


1 





40 


41 


43 


44 


45 


46 


49 


50 


51 


52 


55 


56 


59 


60 


61 


63 


64 


66 


67 


Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
lecture classes of 
size given 


1 


3 


1 

2 


1 


2 
1 


1 


1 

1 


2 
2 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


4 


1 
1 


1 


1 


1 




Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
smallest of 5 larg- 
est lecture divi- 
sions of size given . 


1 



















22 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XII C. — Largest lecture divisions — Continued. 





70 


72 


74 


75 


77 


80 


81 


82 


84 


88 


90 


91 


95 


98 


100 


113 


124 


125 


133 


Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
lecture classes of 
size given 






1 


1 


1 


1 


2 


1 

1 


1 


1 


2 
1 


1 

1 


1 


1 


2 


1 


1 


2 


1 


Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
smallest of 5 larg- 
est lecture divi- 
sions of size given. 


1 


1 


























134 


140 


142 


149 


153 


160 


179 


183 


188 


200 


229 


242 


293 


313 


355 


365 


600 


603 


No re- 
port. 


Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
lecture classes of 
size given... 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


8 


Number of institu- 
tions reporting 
smallest of 5 larg- 
est lecture divi- 
sions of size given . 


18 





































FACULTY. 

Table XIII has been enlarged to indicate the distinction between 
the larger and the smaller institutions. The figures given in the 
upper horizontal column show the ratio between students and fac- 
ulty in all of the institutions included in the list. In the lower hori- 
zontal column is presented a supplementary series of figures drawn out 
of the total number, showing the practices of the largest institutions in 
the association. This contrast makes it clear that the ratio between 
faculty and students is not a matter of the size of the institution. It 
is rather a matter of the general organization and economic conditions 
of the particular institution. 

Again, as pointed out in an earlier paragraph, attention must be 
drawn to the fact that, in 30 institutions in the list, members of the 
faculty are called upon to give some attention to the work in the pre- 
paratory department. This figure is almost exactly the same as in 
1913 and shows that the organization of the colleges in the approved 
list is very conservative in this matter of preparatory departments. 

The effort to discover in detail the preparation of faculty members 
for their work brings out the fact that there is a good deal of ambi- 
guity in the statement that a member of the faculty has taken graduate 
work. Very few institutions are prepared to confess that the mem- 
bers of their faculty have not done some graduate work, although it 
is evident that the amount of this work and its character is difficult 
to define. Since the adoption by the association of the report of the 
committee presented on pages 6 and 7, the secretary of the commission 
has had a number of objections raised by institutions to the setting 
of the doctor's degree as the standard which must be attained by 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



23 



members of college faculties. It has been repeatedly asserted in 
letters and in personal conferences that this method of determining 
definitely whether a member of a faculty has done graduate work is 
extreme and prejudicial to those who have pursued regular courses in 
a number of different institutions. Objection is raised in some quar- 
ters even to the requirement of the master's degree, and it is explained 
on a number of the blanks where the report is made that certain mem- 
bers of the faculty have not taken graduate courses; that these are the 
members of the faculty who give instruction in technical subjects, 
such as home economics and engineering. In short, it has been 
almost impossible to get information on this matter of preparation 
of members of the faculty. Evidently the colleges are not prepared 
to lay down categorical requirements for their own faculties such as 
are represented in the definite requirement that aU teachers of aca- 
demic subjects in the secondary schools must have graduated from 
colleges of the rank of those on the approved list of the association. 
It might be possible to get some kind of a distribution table from the 
colleges reporting of the number of years during which various mem- 
bers of the faculty have pursued graduate work. That there should 
be some clearer defiiriition of preparation of instructors is obvious to 
one who has attempted to bring together the vague and indefinite 
reports rendered by colleges on this topic. 

Table XIII. 





One faculty member to number of students. 




6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


19 


22 


24 


26 


28 


34 


Number of institu- 


1 


1 


5 


2 


7 


4 . 


8 


6 


6 


10 


4 


4 


2 


3 


2 


1 


2 


1 


1 














1 


1 


1 





2 


2 


2 





2 








1 


1 











1 



No report from two institutions. 



Table XIII A. 





None. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


10 


11 


12 


15 


16 


18 


20 


29 


68 


No 
report. 


Number of mem- 
bers of faculty 
who are not col- 
lege graduates 

Number of mem- 
bers of faculty 
with no graduate 
training 


38 
31 


8 
6 


7 
5 


5 
5 


3 

1 


2 
5 


1 


1 


2 
1 


2 


2 










1 


1 


1 


2 


1 


1 


1 


1 


10 











Table XIV presents the facts with regard to different ranks within 
the faculty. The apparent large increase in the number of faculty 
members in 1914 as compared with 1913 is in part explained by the 
more complete returns in 1914 as contrasted with 1913. 



24 



STUDY OP COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XIV. 





Professor. 


Associate 
professor. 


Assistant 
professor. 


Instructor. 


Lower 
titles. 


Total number 


2,089 
30 


781 
11 


912 
13 


1,694 
25 


1,453 




21 







Table XIV A is compiled in view of the standard of the association 

that there must be a full professor devoting his whole time to the 

interests of the eight fundamental departments designated by the 

association. 

Table XIV A. 





English. 


Modern 

lan- 
guages. 


Ancient 

lan- 
guages. 


History. 


Social 
science. 


Mathe- 
matics. 


Physical 
science. 


Biological 
science. 


Departments which 
do not have full 
time of at least 1 


2 


4 


5 


7 


13 


5 


5 


5 






Table XIV B. 




Professor. 


Associate 
professor. 


Assistant 
professor. 


Instructor. 


Lower 
titles. 


Number of institutions in which titles ap- 


72 


40 


.55 


67 


51 

























Table XV shows little change as compared with the corresponding 
table in the report of 1913. Evidently American colleges have no 
standards with regard to the titles which they employ. Several 
institutions give the title of professor with great freedom, with the 
result that this title has no general significance. When a graduate 
student who has not yet completed his work for the doctor's degree 
is awarded the title of professor in one institution and must wait for 
from four to eight years for a similar title in other institutions in the 
same list, it will be very difficult to evaluate the title in general. 
The standard of the association which specifies the number of pro- 
fessors necessary to constitute a minimum faculty is therefore of 

small significance. 

Table XV. 



Percentage. 



1-10 



11-20 



21-30 



31-40 



41-50 



51-60 



81-90 



91-92 



Number of institutions having 
above percentage of professors . . . 

Number of institutions having 
above percentage of instructors . . 

Number of institutions having 
above percentage of lower rank 
than instructor 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



25 



HOURS OF INSTRUCTION. 

The information collected on the blanks of 1914 with regard to 
hours of instruction was much more detailed than that which was 
collected in 1913. Distinction was drawn between laboratory- 
instructors and those who have charge of recitations. The results 
are presented in Table XVI. The diversity of practice in these 
matters is very striking indeed. If the standards of the association 
were rigidly enforced, a number of the institutions would be excluded 
by virtue of the large number of hours assigned to the numbers of 
their faculties. There can be no doubt at aU that the standard 
referring to hours of work is important in judging of the organization 
of the institution. At the next meeting of the commission the facts 
in this respect will be reported with reference to each institution and 
there can be little doubt that the commission will regard this matter 
as one of serious importance in determining the position of an institu- 
tion on the approved list. 

Table XVI. — Showing hours of luork required of instructors in various institutions. 








8 


9 


10 


12 


13 


14 


15 


10 


17 


18 


19 


20 


21 


22 


23 


Number of institutions reporting 
maximum of laboratory hours. 

Number of institutions reporting 
maximum of recitation and lec- 
ture tiours 





1 







1 








1 





1 

2 


2 

1 
3 


1 

1 
1 

2 




1 

6 


3 

8 
4 

11 


3 

7 
2 

11 




2 

7 

12 


6 

20 
8 

8 


1 

1 
4 

1 


6 

9 
6 

4 


2 

3 

4 

3 


4 

2 
4 

2 


1 
3 


Number of institutions reporting 
average of laboratory hours 

Number of institutions reporting 
average of recitation and lec- 
ture hours 


1 








24 


25 


26 


27 


28 


29 


30 


32 


34 


35 


30 


38 


39 


40 


45 


No 
re- 
port. 


Number of institutions reporting 
maximum of laboratory hours. 


4 

2 
3 


1 
3 


2 


3 


4 



3 

1 

1 


1 


4 


2 


1 


1 


1 






1 


1 


11 


Number of institutions reporting 
maximum of recitation and 




1 


9 


Number of institutions reporting 
average of laboratory hours 

Number of institutions reporting 
average of recitation and lec- 


1 


4 




1 






1 






10 












7 





































MATERIAL EQUIPMENT. 

The returns on material equipment were much more complete and 
detailed than in the 1913 report. All of the institutions with endow- 
ments less than $200,000, except one, were eliminated from the list. 
Where the indebtedness of the institution when subtracted from the 
productive endowment brought the net productive funds of the 
institution below $200,000, the commission ruled that the institution 
could not be accepted by the association. There was a question on 
the blank explicitly asking institutions to explain why this procedure 



26 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

should not be taken in all cases. The answers given are of some 
interest. Some of the institutions explained that the indebtedness 
is due to the fact that they have invested funds in dormitories. A 
number explained that their charters do not permit them to draw 
upon their funds to meet temporary indebtedness. Some appeal to 
subscriptions as the offset to indebtedness. In some cases the sub- 
scriptions bear interest. In other cases the subscriptions seemed to 
lack some of the definiteness of this first class and reference was made 
merely to pledges. One institution had evidently become disad- 
vantageously involved in annuity arrangements. In short, indebted- 
ness appears to arise from a very great variety of causes and appears 
also in many cases to be a very difficult encumbrance to remove. 
The amount of indebtedness is set forth in a subsequent table. 

Among the items which the committee has come to regard as of 
large importance in estimating the efficiency of an institution's organ- 
ization is the item of expenditures for instructorial salaries. Where 
an institution attempts to carry a large faculty, but evidently expends 
on the faculty only a very meager sum, it is obvious that the general 
organization of the institution is at least in danger. Furthermore, 
in some institutions it appears that the tuition from students con- 
tributes a very large portion of the amount which is expended on 
instructorial salaries. Where this is the case, the probability that 
the institution can carry on any definite policy of organization is 
very small, for the simple reason that a falling off in the student 
body in any given year would immediately result in such a curtail- 
ment of the funds of the institution that the faculty itself would 
have to be reduced. The balance between instructorial and other 
salaries is also a matter of some interest. Especially was it difficult 
in a number of cases to get any definite statement of the amount of 
money which is expended in the preparatory department as distin- 
guished from the college department. The complete analysis of these 
returns would demand a scrutiny of the accounts of the institutions 
which the committee did not feel it was qualified to undertake. 

The major outstanding fact which appears in the tables on expendi- 
tures is that many of the institutions in the association are conducted 
on a very meager financial basis. Perhaps the simplest way of deal- 
ing with the whole situation at the present juncture is to present in 
tables all of the details that were collected on the blanks. The figures 
for productive endowment are derived from that part of the blank 
in which the distinction was definitely drawn between productive 
endowment and endowment as ordinarily reported. When institu- 
tions are called upon, as in this blank, to deduct aU funds which are 
subject to annuity or other liens, it is noticeable that a very great 
deduction is in some cases made from the sum which is ordinarily 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



27 



reported as productive endowment. There can be no doubt that it 
is bad policy and bad bookkeeping to include in productive endow- 
ment a fund which at the present moment is not producing income 
for the conduct of the institution. Sooner or later the association 
will have to take the position that a fuU financial statement from 
each institution shall conform to the general standards of the asso- 
ciation in its net showing and in the details of the items which are 

reported. 

Table XVII. 



Number of insti- 
tutions: Productive endowment. 

1^ Below $200, 000 

22 200, 000 to 300,000 

5 300,000to 400,000 

5 400, 000 to 500,000 

• 12 500, 000 to 1, 000, 000 

3 1, 000, 000 to 2, 000, 000 

2 2, 000, 000 to 3, 000, 000 

2 3, 000, 000 to 4, 000, 000 

2 4, 000, 000 and over. 



Number of insti- 
tutions — Con. Income from State or city. 

3 Below $100, 000 

6 100, 000 to 200,000 

3 200, 000 to 300,000 

5 500, 000 to 1, 000, 000 

2 1, 000, 000 to 2, 000, 000 

1 2, 000, 000 to 5, 000, 000 



Table XVII A. 



Number of institu- 
tions: 

1 



Income from endow- 
ment. 

No endowment. 



2 $1,000 to 

5 5,000to 

26 lO.OOOto 

7 20, 000 to 

7 30, 000 to 

4 40, 000 to 

Five institutiona not reporting. 



$5, 000 
10, 000 
20, 000 
30, 000 
40, 000 
50, 000 



Number of institu- 
tions — Con. 

2 $50, 000 to 

3 60,000to 

2 70, 000 to 

1 80, 000 to 

4 100, 000 to 

1 200, 000 to 



Income from endow- 
ment. 

$60, 000 

70, 000 

80, 000 

90, 000 

200, 000 

500, 000 



2 500, 000 to 1, 000, 000 



Table XVII B. 



Number of institu- 
tions: Income from tuition. 

1 $1,000 to $5,000 

8 5, 000 to 10,000 

20 10, 000 to 20,000 

12 20, 000 to 30,000 

1 30,000to 40,000 

7 40, 000 to 50,000 

3 50, 000 to 60,000 

Three institutions not reporting. 



Number of institu- 
tions — Con. Income from tuition. 

1 $70, 000 to $80, 000 

1 80, 000 to 90,000 

2 90, 000 to 100, 000 

7 100, 000 to 200, 000 

4 200, 000 to 500, 000 

1 Over 500, 000 



1 Special action of the commission. 



28 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XVIII. 



Number of institu- 
tions : Aggregate of salaries- 

4 $10, 000 to $20, 000 

17 20, 000 to 30,000 

12 30, 000 to 40,000 

6 40, 000 to 50,000 

1 50,000to 60,000 

4 60,000to 70,000 

Two institutions not reporting. 



Number of institu- 
tions — Con. Aggregate of salaries. 

2 $70, 000 to $80, 000 

3 80, 000 to 90,000 

7 100, 000 to 200, 000 

5 200, 000 to 300, 000 

2 300, 000 to 400, 000 

7 600, 000 and over. 



Table XVIII A. 



Number of institu 
tions: 

1 



Salaries, prepara- 
tory division. 
Less than $1, 000 

21 $l,000to 10,000 

5 10, 000 to 20,000 

1 30, 000 to 40,000 

No preparatory department in 33 institutions. 
Seven institutions not reporting. 

Table XVIII B. 



Number of institu- q^^^^^^^ prepara- 
tions — Con. tory division. 

2 $40, 000 to $50, 000 

1 60, 000 to 70,000 

1 200,000 to 300,000 



Number of institu- Salaries, buildings, 

tions: and grounds. 

1 Less than $1,000 

47 $1,000 to 10,000 

8 10, 000 to 20, 000 

Twelve institutions not reporting. 



Number of instittl- salaries, buildings, 

tions — Con. and grounds. 

1 $20, 000 to $30, 000 

2 50, 000 to 60,000 

2 100, 000 to 200, 000 



Table XVIII C. 



Number of institu 
tions: 

4 

4 

5 $500 to 

24 1,000 to 

5 5, 000 to 

12 10,000to 

Ten institutions not reporting. 



Expenditure, equipment 
other than books. 

Nothing. 

Less than $500 

1,000 

5,000 

10, 000 

20, 000 



Number of institu- 
tions — Con. 

1 

1 



Expenditure, equipment 

other than books. 
. $20, 000 to $30, 000 
. 40, 000 to 50,000 



2 50, 000 to 60,000 

1 60, 000 to 70,000 

1 80,000to 90,000 

2 100, 000 to 200, 000 



Table XVIII D. 



Number of institu- 
tions: 

1 

3 

6 

13 

1 

25 



xpenditin-e< 


. books. 


Nothing. 


$100 to 


$300 


300 to 


500 


500 to 


800 


800 to 


1,000 


1,000 to 


5,000 



Number of institu- 
tions — Con. Expenditures, books. 

5 $5, 000 to $10, 000 

4 10, 000 to 20,000 

1 20, 000 to 30,000 

2 30, 000 to 40,000 

2 40,000.t6 50,000 



Eight institutions not reporting. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



29 



Table XIX. 



Number of insti- 
tutions: 

4 

20 

15 

7 

5 

2 

1 

1 



Aggregate value of buildings 
(not dormitories). 

Less than $100, 000 

1100, 000 to 200, 000 

200, 000 to 300, 000 

300, 000 to 400, 000 

400, 000 to 500, 000 

500, 000 to 600, 000 

600, 000 to 700, 000 

700, 000 to 800, 000 



Number of insti- 
-Con. 



tutions 

1 $800, 000 to 

2 900, 000 to 

6 1,000, 000 to 



Aggregate value of buildings 
(not dormitories). 

$900, 000 

1, 000, 000 

2, 000, 000 



4 2, 000, 000 to 3,000,000 

1 3, 000, 000 to 4,000,000 

1 4,000, 000 to 5,000,000 

1 5, 000, 000 to 10, 000, 000 



One institution not reporting. 



Table XIX A. 



Number of institu- 
tions: 



Value of grounds (not in- 
cluding buildings) 



3 $10, 000 to 

5 20, 000 to 

4 30, 000 to 

4 40, 000 to 

5 50,000to 

5 60, 000 to 

1 70, 000 to 

One institution not reporting. 



$20, 000 
30, 000 
40, 000 
50, 000 
60, 000 
70, 000 
80, 000 



Number of institu- 

_ Value of grounds (not in- 

tions — Con. eluding buUdings). 

2 $80, 000 to $90,000 

1 90, 000 to 100,000 

21 100,000to 200,000 

11 200, 000 to 500,000 

4 500, 000 to 1, 000, 000 

6 Above 1, 000, 000 



Table XX. 



Percentage of invest- 
ment in dormitories 
as compared with 
,.,. , .... total value of other 

Number of institutions: buildings. 

2 Less than 1 



11. 

17. 
10. 

3. 

4. 



1 tolO 
11 to 20 
21 to 30 
31 to 40 
41 to 50 



Percentage of invest 

ment in dormitories 

Number ofinstitu- as compared with 

^ total value of other 

tions — Con. buildings. 

3 51 to 60 

4 61 to 70 

3 81 to 90 

1 91 to 100 

1 349 



Eight institutions with no dormitories or residences. 
Five institutions not reporting. 

Table XXI. 



Number of institu- 



Value of apparatus and 
furnishings. 



tions: 

14 $1, 000 to $10, 000 

13 10, 000 to 20,000 

3 20, 000 to 30,000 

2 30, 000 to 40,000 

4 40, 000 to 50,000 

6 50, 000 to 60,000 

4 GO, 000 to 70,000 

Four institutions not reporting. 



Value of apparatus and 
furnishings. 



Number of institu- 
tions — Con. 

2 $70, 000 to $80, 000 

3 80, 000 to 90,000 

1 90, 000 to 100,000 

9 100, 000 to 200, 000 

2 200, 000 to 300, 000 

6 Over 500, 000 



30 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



Table XXI A. 



Number of institu- value of laboratory 
tions: equipment. 

17 $1, 000 to 110, 000 



16 10, 000 to 

9 20, 000 to 

2 30, 000 to 

4 40, 000 to 

1 50,000to 

Four institutions not reporting. 



20,000 
30, 000 
40, 000 
50, 000 
60, 000 



Number of institu- Value of laboratory 
tions — Con. equipment. 

1 $90,000 to $100,000 

9 100, 000 to 200,000 

3 200, 000 to 300,000 

1 300,000 to 400,000 

1 400, 000 to 500, 000 

4 Over 500,000 



Table XXII. 



Number of infstitutions: Number of books. Number of institu- 



9 1, 000 to 10, 000 



21 10, 000 to 20, 000 

9 20, 000 to 30, 000 

6 30, 000 to 40, 000 

4 40, 000 to 50,000 

3 50, 000 to 60, 000 

Four institutions not reporting. 

Table XXII A 



tions — Con. 



Number of books. 



3 60, 000 to 70, 000 

2 70, 000 to 80, 000 

2 80, 000 to 90, 000 

9. Miscellaneous. 



Number of institutions: Value of books. 



1 $1, 000 to $5, 000 

8 5, 000 to 10, 000 

14 10, 000 to 20, 000 

10 20, 000 to 30, 000 

4 30, 000 to 40, 000 

7 40, 000 to 50, 000 

3 50, 000 to 60, 000 

3 $60, 000to$70, 000 

Four institutions not reporting. 

Table XXIII 



Number of institu- 



tions—Con. Value of books. 

1 70, 000 to 80,000 

1 80,000to 90,000 

2 90, 000 to 100, 000 

6 100, 000 to 200, 000 

5 200, 000 to 500, 000 

3 500, 000 to 800, 000 



Number of institutions: 
43 



Debt. 



None. 

3 $5, 000 to $10, 000 

2 10, 000 to 20,000 

4 20,000 to 30,000 

8 30,000to 40,000 

1 40, 000 to 50,000 

Nine institutions not reporting. 



Number of institu- 
tions — Con. 



Debt. 



1 $50, 000 to $60, 000 

1 60, 000 to 70,000 

5 70, 000 to 80,000 

1 80,000to 90,000 

3 Miscellaneous. 



PART n.— APPROVED fflGH SCHOOLS OF THE NORTH CENTRAL ASSO- 
CIATION OF COLLEGES AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS* 

By George S. Counts. 



INTRODUCTION. 



The present investigation is a statistical study based upon 1,000 
annual reports sent in by the principals of 1,000 high schools of the 
North Central Association during the first semester of the school 
year 1913-14. The scope of the report blank sent to these high 
schools is made clear by the accompanying reproduction. It should 
be stated, however, that many of the reports were far from complete. 
Consequently, no single item of information is complete for the 1,000 
schools sending in reports; in each table a statement is made of the 
exact number of reports at hand for that special item. Furthermore,, 
the reports from the schools of two States, Colorado and Montana^ 
were withdrawn for a time while the work was under way, with the 
result that these States are not represented in all of the tables. But 
since the number of schools reporting from these two States is com- 
paratively small in each case, 36 from Colorado and 16 from Montana, 
the omission is not of great consequence. 

The following report blank was sent to the high schools: 

City State Special name of high school 

Superinteiidei)t Principal 

Population of city Total present enrollment of high school 

Date of this report 

Date of first accrediting by the North Central Association 

Date jf organization of high school Date of last inspection 



TEACHING STAFF. 

Total number individuals who give instruction in high school 

How many of them are new to the system this year? 

Of the NEW teachers, how many are inexperienced? 

Of the NEW teachers, how many have no special pedagogic preparation? . . 
Of the NEW teachers, how many are not graduated from standard college?. 

Of the old teachers, how many are not graduated from standard college? 

Of the old teachers, how many have no special pedagogical preparation? 



DISTRIBUTION OF WORK. 

Number of periods taught by superintendent principal 

♦Number of periods in assembly room, superintendent principal 

Number of teachers who teach the following number of periods: 

Men: 1 2 3 4 .5 6 7 

Women: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 

♦Number of teachers who, in addition to teaching, supervise study: 

♦Men: 1 2 3 4 

♦Women: 1 2 3 4 

♦Items marked with the ♦ are not required for approval. 

31 



32 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



LENGTH OF SCHOOL YEAR. 

Date of opening of school year date of closing 

Number of weeks of five days each during which school is actually in session 

Hour of opening of closing 

Number recitations (including laboratory periods) in daily program 

Actual number of 60-minute hours in each full day, excluding all recess periods . . .. 

Number minutes in the clear in each recitation period 

Number minutes in the clear in each laboratory period 

Number minutes in the clear in each manual training period 

Number minutes in the clear in each agriculture period 

Number minutes in the clear in each cooking period , 

Number minutes in the clear in each sewing period 

Number minutes in the clear in each commercial period 

Mention all exceptions to the foregoing statement of the length of recitation period . 



GRADUATION. 

Number "units" required for graduation in your high school. 

What grade is required for passing? 

For recommendation to coUege? 

Number graduated last year 



SIZE OF CLASSES. 



Name subjects in which there are classes of over 30. (If there is more than one section in any subject, 
note the number of sections in that subject haviog more than 30 pupils.) 



*Number of classes or sections with 1 to 10 pupils 

*Number of classes or sections with 11 to 20 pupils 

*Number of classes or sections with 21 to 30 pupils 

*Number of classes or sections with 31 to 40 pupils 

*Number of classes or sections with 41 to 50 pupils. , 

*Items marked with the * are not required for approval. 



HIGH-SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 

Total enrollment December 1, this year This date 

*Total enrollment close of last year Opening of this 

♦Number of students now in fourth year ; third year ; second year ; first 

year 

*Number of students classified as "special" or "irregular" 

♦Number of present senior class who, including this year, have attended any high school 6 years 

5 years ; 4 years ; 3 years ; only 2 years ; only 1 year 

♦Number belonging to this class four years ago who dropped out of high school during first year ; 

second year ; third year ; fourth year 

♦Number of postgraduates Number in city eighth grade 

♦Number of students in the high school from outside the school corporation 

*Not required for approval. 

♦information regarding LAST GRADUATING CLASS. 

*This section is not required for approval. 

♦Number of pupils who graduated last year with more than 14 units: 

15 m 16 16i 

17 17i 18 18§ 

19 19J 20 

♦Number of last year's class who have gone to — 

Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. 

College Medicine. 



Commercial school Dentistry 

Trades Engineering 

Farming Pharmacy 

Normal school Law 

Business Domestic economy. 

Remain at home Agriculture 

Other occupations Unknown 



f 

(See other side. Standards in full on other side.) 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 33 

MATERIAL EQXJIPMENT. 

Number rooms used exclusively for laboratory purposes 

Number rooms used exclusively for recitation purposes 

Number rooms used exclusively for assembly purposes 

Number rooms used exclusively for manual training purjioses 

Number rooms used exclusively for domestic science purposes 

Number rooms that are overcrowded 

Do you have recitations in study room? 

Number rooms used for more than one purpose 

Value of equipment in: Physics Chemistry Botany Zoology 

Agriculture Sewing Cooking Commercial course 

Number dollars expended in equipment annually 



COURSE OF STUDY. 

Do students elect by subject? or by "courses"? 

Number of units or half units of work actually being given this year in each subject: 

English German Domestic science . 

Physics French Music 

Cooking History Latin 

Commercial course Civics Algebra 

Agricultiu-e Chemistry Geometry 

Manual training Botany Drawing 

Physical geography Zoology Sewing 

Physiology Education Normal 

Name other subjects 



Does the city maintain a public library? 

How far is it from school? Number of volumes 

Number of volumes in high-school library distributed by departments: 

English History Physics 

Botany Chemistry Agriculture 

Sewing Cooking Physical geography 

Zoology Latin German 

Manual training Education Fiction 

Physiology French Civics 

Mathematics Drawing and art Commercial 

Government reports: United States State 

Number encyclopedias for high school 

Total number volumes of all kinds added last year 

Number dollars expended last year for books 

♦standings. 
*This section is optional. 

♦What was the average in all subjects of the last year 's graduating class? 

*What was the average in all subjects of the highest ranking student in your last year's graduating 

class? 

*Same for the lowest ranking student actually graduated? 

*0f those who went to college, what per cent stood in the highest third of the class (highest third meaning 

highest numerical third after class is ranked from best to worst) in your school? 

*Do you receive information from the colleges in regard to the standing of your graduates? 

* salaries of teachees. 
* This section is optional. 

Please fill out the following table, showing the range of salaries, including in the figures the principal 
but marking his salary so that it can be distinguished from the others. 
* Number having — 

300to 399 400to 499 500 to 599 600 to 699 

700to 799 800to 899 900 to 999 l,000tol,099 

1,100 to 1,199 1,200 to 1,299 1,300 to 1,399 1,400 to 1,499 

1,500 to 1,599 1,600 to 1,699 1,700 to 1,799 1,800 to 1,899 

1,900 to 1,999 2, 000 to 2, 099 2, 100 to 2, 199 2, 200 to 2, 299 

2,300 to 2, 399 2, 400 to 2, 499 2, 500 to 2, 599 2, 600 to 2, 699 

2, 700 to 2, 799 2, 800 to 2, 899 2, 900 to 2, 999 3, 000 to 3, 099 

3, 100 to 3, 199 3,200 to 3,299 3,300 to 3,399 3, 400 to 3, 499 

Above • 

80790°— 15 3 



34 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

STANDARDS OF THE NORTH CENTRAL ASSOCIATION. 

The aim of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools is, first, to bring about a 
better acquaintance, a keener sympathy, and a heartier cooperation between the colleges and secondary 
schools of this territory; secondly, to consider common educational problems and to devise best ways and 
means of solving them; and thirdly, to promote the physical, intellectual, and moral well-being of students 
by urging proper sanitary conditions of school buUdings, adequate library and laboratory facilities, and 
higher standards of scholarship and of remuneration of teachers. The association is a voluntary organi- 
zation consisting of representatives of both secondary schools and colleges, is devoted solely to the highest 
welfare of the boys and girls of this territory, and bespeaks the cordial and sympathetic support of all 
schoolmen. 

The following constitute the standards for accrediting secondary schools for the present year: 

1. No school shall be accredited which does not require 15 units, as defined by the association, for 
graduation. More than 20 periods per week should be discouraged. 

(A unit course of study in a secondary school is defined as a course covering an academic year that shall 
include in the aggregate not less than the equivalent of 120 sixty-minute hours of classroom work, two hours 
of manual training or laboratory work being equivalent to one hour of classroom work.) 

2. The minimum scholastic attainment of all secondary school teachers of academic subjects shall be 
equivalent to graduation from a college belonging to the North Central Association of Colleges and Sec- 
ondary Schools. It is strongly advised that this attainment include, or be supplemented by, special study 
of the content and the pedagogy of the subject taught. Such requirements shall not be construed as retro- 
active. 

3. The number of daUy periods of classroom instruction given by any teacher should not exceed five, 
each to extend over at least 40 minutes in the clear. The board of inspectors will reject all schools having 
more than six recitation periods per day for any teacher. 

4. The laboratory and library facilities shall be adequate to the needs of instruction in the subjects 
taught, as outlined by the association. 

5. The location and construction of the buildings, the lighting, heating, and ventilation of the rooms, 
the nature of the lavatories, corridors, closets, water supply, school furniture, apparatus, and methods 
of cleaning shall be such as to insure hygienic conditions for both pupOs and teachers. 

6. The efficiency of instruction, the acquired habits of thought and study, the general intellectual and 
moral tone of a school are paramount factors, and therefore only schools which rank well in these particu- 
lars,as evidenced by rigid, thoroughgoing, sympathetic inspection, shall be considered eligible for the list. 

7. The association will decline to consider any school whose teaching force consists of fewer than four 
teachers of academic subjects, exclusive of the superintendent. The association recommends the intro- 
duction of the so-called vocational subjects, such as agriculture, manual training, household arts, and 
commercial subjects, into schools where local conditions render such introduction feasible, but the in- 
spectors will hold that a sufficient number of qualified teachers must be added to provide adequately for 
such instruction. 

8. No school shall be considered unless the regular annual blank furnished for the purpose shall have 
been filled out and placed on file with the inspector. In case of schools having 12 or more teachers a com- 
plete report on teachers once in three years wOl be sufficient; but fuU data relative to changes should be 
presented annually. 

9. All schools whose records show an excessive number of pupils per teacher, as based on average number 
belonging, even though they may technically meet all other requirements, are rejected. The association 
recognizes 30 as maximum. 

10. The time for which schools are accredited shall be limited to one year, dating from the time of the 
adoption of the list by the association. 

11. The agent of communication between the accredited schools and the secretary of the commission 
for the purpose of distributing, collecting, and filing the annual reports of such schools and for such other 
purposes as the association may direct, is as follows: (a) In States having such an official, the inspector 
of schools appointed by the State university, (b) In other States the inspector of schools appointed by 
State authority, or, if there be no such official, such person or persons as the secretary of the commission 
may select. 

The association is very conservative, believing that such action will eventually work to the highest 
interests of the schools and the association. It aims to accredit only those schools which possess organiza- 
tion, teaching force, standards of scholarship, equipment, esprit de corps, etc., of such character as will 
unhesitatingly commend them to any educator, college, or university in the north central territory. Wher- 
ever there is reasonable doubt concerning the standing of a school, the association wiU accept that doubt 
as ground sufficient to justify rejection. 

The method used in making the analysis of these reports has, in a 
large measure, been taken over from a similar study made by Jessup 
and Coffman last year. Jessup and Ooflfman analyzed their material 
on the basis of State and population, with especial reference to the 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 35 

latter. In both reports schools are grouped according to the States 
and also according to the size of the city in which they are located. 
The cities are divided into seven classes, those with populations of 
2,500 and under, those with populations from 2,501 to 5,000, from 
5,001 to 7,500, from 7,501 to 10,000, from 10,001 to 15,000, from 
15,001 to 50,000, and those with populations above 50,000. In 
addition to the classification adopted by Jessup and Coffman this 
report presents a classification of schools according to enrollment 
in some of the tables, since it seemed that enrollment would furnish 
a more significant basis of analysis for certain items. The schools 
are divided into six groups: Those with 100 students or less, those 
with from 101 to 200 students, from 201 to 300, from 301 to 500, 
from 501 to 1,000, and those with more than 1,000 students. 

The purpose of the study is to present a body of material to those 
interested in secondary education which will enable them to get 
some idea of the nature and scope of the work now being done by a 
selected group of secondary schools in the Middle West. It is hoped 
that the information here set forth will be of practical value to those 
in control of the high schools in the territory covered by this report. 
One of the chief values of the presentation of these facts in the form 
of tables is that it makes it possible for school authorities to compare 
the organization, material equipment, course of study, etc., of their 
own schools with a group of selected schools. If, for instance, the 
principal of a high school finds out by reference to these tables that 
his high school does not have as good material equipment as the 
majority of the high schools of the same size, he has a strong argu- 
ment to put before the school board in recommending appropria- 
tions for material equipment. 

For purposes of ready reference medians have been worked out 
in many cases. In a series of variants the median is the middle one. 
For example, suppose we have 15 schools reporting on some particular 
item. The schools are ranked from lowest to highest. The median 
is the eighth school, counting from either the top or the bottom of 
the series. Thus the median is a measure of central tendency lying 
midway between the two extremes. Now, if it should be found by 
the principal of a school that the value of the material equipment 
of his school is much below the median, he should at least give the 
matter his attention. In this way the standards of the schools wiU 
gradually be raised. 

At the time that the information summarized in this report was 
collected from the schools additional information was collected from 
individual teachers regarding their training and work. This body of 
material is so bulky that it wiU require more time to complete a report 
in regard to teachers. The general facts regarding teachers are pre- 



36 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



sented in the summary form in which this matter was called for in 
the principal's report. 

Table I. — Population of cities — School enrollment. 





Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 




8 

21 

6 

13 

27 

21 

22 

5 

1 

26 

17 

16 

2 

5 

17 


11 
33 
12 
26 
- 21 
22 
17 
11 
6 

11 
5 

32 
6 
7 

29 


4 
18 

9" 

6 

4 

14 
10 
12 

3 

6 

3 
27 

1 

3 
14 


4 

12 
12 

2 
9 
8 
8 
7 
1 
4 

19 
4 
1 
4 


1 
11 

5 
5 
6 

12 
4 
1 
4 
2 
3 

13 
6 
3 
4 


3 

25 

11 

12 

6 

10 
1 
2 
1 
4 


'I 

17 


5 

26 

8 

3 

3 

12 

11 

14 



2 



34 

1 



5 


36 


Illinois 


146 




63 




67 




76 


Michigan 


99 




73 




52 




16 


Nebraska 


55 




28 


Ohio 


168 




22 




19 




90 






Total 


207 


249 


134 


95 


80 


111 


124 


1,000 








1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501- 
1,000 


1,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 




4 

21 

2 

1 

4 

11 

5 

10 

3 

9 

12 

16 

1 

2 

3 


12 
48 
21 
28 
36 
30 
32 
21 

5 
28 
14 
48 

9 
11 
44 


8 

22 

17 

12 

16 

26 

17 

6 

3 

7 



33 

3 

3 

18 


6 
21 
14 
16 
15 
17 
10 
5 
3 
6 
2 
29 
5 
2 
12 


4 
20 
6 
5 
1 
11 
1 
3 
2 


20 


9 


2 
12 
3 
2 
3 
3 
6 
6 

1 

9 


3 


36 




144 




63 




64 




75 


Michigan 


98 




71 




51 




16 


Nebraska 


51 




28 


Ohio 


155 




18 




18 




89 








Total 


104 


386 


191 


163 


83 


50 


977 







LOCATION OF SCHOOLS. 

Table I is a somewhat general table giving the size and location of 
the 1,000 high schools sending in the reports upon which this investi- 
gation is based. Beginnmg at the top of the table, we read that 8 of 
the Colorado schools are situated in cities with a population of 
2,500 or less, 11 in cities with populations ranging from 2,501 to 
5,000, etc., and that, in all, Colorado is represented by 36 schools. 
Reading further, we see that of these 36 schools 4 have enrollments 
between 1 and 100, 12 between 101 and 200, and so on. 

It is to be noted that 15 States are represented, and the number of 
schools in the several States ranges from 16 in Montana to 158 in 
Ohio. In a general way the number of schools varies with the popu- 
lation and age of the State. For the entire association the largest 
number of schools is found in cities of the second size. This also 
holds for most of the States, but it does not hold for Kansas, Minne- 
sota, Nebraska, and North Dakota, in which States the city with a 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



37 



population of 2,500 or less is most frequent, nor for Missouri, where the 
city of the third size predominates. 

As regards enrollment, 386 out of a total of 977 have enrollments 
varying from 101 to 200, and this size of school is also most frequent 
in every one of the States. This does not mean that schools of this 
size are most frequent in the north central territory, but merely in the 
association, for a great many of the smaller schools are unable or 
unwilling to meet the requirements for admission to membership in 
the association. It is the exceptional school having an enrollment of 
100 or less that becomes a member of the association. 

The discrepancy between the totals when the schools are arranged 
with reference to population and when they are arranged on the basis 
of enrollment is due to the fact that, of the 1,000 schools reporting, 
only 977 reported enrollment, while the population could be obtained 
in every case by consulting the United States census reports. 

Table II. 



Total enrollment. 


Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


Under 50 


2 

13 

32 

49 

45 

32 

9 

3 

3 

1 

1 

2 

1 

1 

1 


s' 

9 

29 

38 

43 

43 

26 

14 

7 

4 

8 

3 


2 
1 
2 
3 
14 
14 
16 
19 
10 
14 
9 
10 
3 

1 
1 


5 

4 
2 
3 

6 
4 
11 
10 
13 
13 
8 
7 
1 

1 


1 
1 
2 

1 
1 
3 
5 
5 
2 
5 
15 
10 
9 
9 
1 
2 

1 


1 

2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
2 
2 


2 
11 
5 

18 
11 
5 
6 
7 
2 
3 
5 
1 
2 
2 
1 
1 
2 

2 


1 

1 


5 
5 
3 
2 
2 
2 
1 
3 

2 
1 
1 
4 
4 
1 
4 
6 
3 
3 
6 
4 
1 
3 
4 
3 
2 
3 
3 
2 
7 
1 
1 
2 
3 
4 
2 
3 
3 
1 
2 
1 
1 


16 


51-75 .. 


27 
53 
86 


76-100 


101-125 


126-150 


105 


151-175 


93 
80 


176-200 


201-225 


62 


226-250 


43 
36 
35 
60 


251-275 


276-300 


301-350 


351-400 


34 
39 
24 


401-450 


451-500 


501-550 


w 


551-600 






15 


601-650 








10 


651-700 










6 


701-750 










9 


751-800 












9 


801-850 












2 


851-900 












6 


901-950 












6 


951-1,000 












4 


1 ,001-1,050 












3 


1,051-1,100 












6 


1,101-1,150 












3 


1,151-1,200 












4 


1,201-1,250 












7 


1,251-1,300 












1 


1,301-1,350 












2 


1,351-1,400 












2 


1,451-1,500 












4 


1,501-1,550 












4 


1,551-1,600 














2 


1 ,601-1 ,700 














3 


1,701-1,800 














3 


1 ,801-1,900 














1 


2,001-2,100 














2 


2,100-2,200 














1 


2,701-2,800 














1 


















Total number of schools 

Total enrollment 


195 
28,395 
126 
26i 


229 

40.309 

176 

36 


119 

25,952 

210 

51 


88 
23,404 
273 
60i 


73 

24,338 

335 

88i 


100 

52, 082 

459 

143 


114 

94,213 

742 

427 


918 
288, 693 


Median 


200 


Quartile deviation 









38 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table II — Continued. 



Total enrollment. 



Illinois. 



Indiana. 



Iowa. 



Kansas. 



Michigan. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Under 50. . 

51-75 

76-100 

101-125 

126-150 

151-175 

176-200 

201-225 

226-250 

251-275 

276-300 

301-350 

351-400 

401^50 

451-500 

501-550 

551-600 

601-«50 

651-700 

701-750 

751-800 

801-850 

851-900 

901-950 

951-1,000... 
1,001-1,050. 
1,051-1,100. 
1,101-1,150. 
1,151-1,200. 
1,201-1,250. 
1,251-1,300. 
1,301-1,350. 
1,351-1,400. 
1,451-1,500. 
1,501-1,550. 
1,551-1,600. 
1,601-1,700. 
1,701-1,800. 
1,801-1,900. 
2,001-2,100. 
2,100-2,200. 
2,701-2,800. 



Total number of schools . 

Total enrollment 

Median 



141 

51,977 
220 



61 

23,203 

243 



65 

19, 530 

216 



75 

19, 700 

190 



96 

31,243 

217 



71 

24,411 

195 



Total enrollment. 


Nebras- 
ka. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


Under 50 


3 
3 

4 

10 
6 
8 
3 
4 
2 

1 
3 
1 
2 





0. 











4 

3 

7 

9 

16 

13 

10 

10 

12 

6 

6 

10 

5 

7 

8 

3 

6 

1 

4 

2 

1 



1 

1 

1 



1 




1 


1 
3 
4 
2 
2 
1 
1 

1 
1 



1 




16 


51-75 


4 
9 
4 
5 

4 







1 

1 






27 


7&-100 


1 
1 
2 
3 
3 
1 

1 
1 
2 

1 
2 


3 
8 
15 
16 
5 
4 
4 
5 
5 
4 
1 
6 
1 

2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
. 
1 

1 
2 



53 


101-125 


86 


126-150 


105 


151-175 


93 


176-200 


80 


201-225 


62 


226-250 


43 


251-275 


36 


276-300 


35 


301-350 


60 


351-400 


34 


401-450 


39 


451-,500 


24 


501-550 


11 


551-600 








15 


601-650 








10 


651-700 








6 


701-750 








9 


751 800 








9 


801-850 








2 


851 900 








5 


901 950 








6 


951-1,000 




! 


4 


1 001 1 050 




1 


3 


1,051-1,100 




I 


5 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table II — Continued. 



39 



Total enrollment. 


Nebras- 
ka. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


1101-1150 



1 




1 

2 


1 



1 
1 



1 










1 


3 


1151-1,200 








4 


1,201-1,250 










7 


1,251-1,300 












1 


1,301-1,350 












2 


1,351-1,400 












2 


1,451-1,500 












4 


1,501-1,550 












4 


1,551-1,600 












2 


1,601-1,700 












3 


1701-1,800 












3 


1,801-1,900 












1 


2,001-2,100 












2 


2,100-2,200 












1 


2,701-2,800 












1 


















51 

9,452 

148 


28 

3,898 

106 


154 

53,046 

235 


18 

4,375 

192 


18 

3,313 

156 


89 

25,967 

188 


918 

288,693 

200 









ENEOLLMENT. 

In Table II the distribution of schools according to enrollment is 
shown more in detail. The table should be read as follows: In cities 
having a population of 2,500 or less there are 2 schools out of the 195 
represented with an enrollment of 50 or less, 13 with enrollments 
ranging from 51 to 75, etc. ; in cities of the second size no school of the 
229 sending in reports has an enrollment of 50 or less, 5 have enroll- 
ments falling between 51 and 75, etc. For the States the table is 
read in the same way. 

A glance at the table shows that there is some relation between the 
size of the school and the size of the city in which the school is located. 
The median enrollment ranges from 126 for schools situated in cities 
of less than 2,500 population to 742 in cities having populations of 
over 50,000; but it is an interesting fact, very clearly brought out in 
the table, that, while the large schools are, with hardly an exception, 
found in the large cities, the small schools are by no means confined 
to the small cities. The range of variation in size of schools increases 
with the size of the cities. This is plainly shown by the quartile devi- 
ation which increases steadily from 26^ for schools in towns of less 
than 2,500 population to 427 for the schools located in towns of the 
largest size. The quartile deviation is a measure of the variation in a 
series of items. The term quartile is used to refer to the points in the 
series, which divide the series into quarters. There are therefore three 
quartiles — first, second, and third; but the second is the median, 
since it is the division point of the second and third quarters, which 
is at the middle point of the series. The quartile deviation is one-half 
the difference between the first and third quartiles. The matter will 
be better understood by reference to the table. For example, take 
the group of schools located in cities of 2,500 inhabitants and under. 



40 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



There are 195 schools in the group. By a process of division the first 
quartile is found to be the forty-ninth school; the second quartile, or 
median, the ninety-eighth school; and the third quartile, the one hun- 
dred and forty-seventh school, when the schools are ranked from 
lowest to highest according to enrollment. By counting down from 
the top of the column we find that the forty-ninth school is the 
second school of the 49 schools having enrollments from 101 to 125. 
By computation the enrollment of the school is found to be 101. 
Following the same method the median enrollment is found to be 
126 and the third quartile 154. Subtracting 101 from 154 gives a dif- 
ference of 53, and one-half of 53 is 26§, which is the quartile deviation 
for the group of schools in question. 

This relation between the range of school enrollments and the size 
of cities is shown graphically in Figure 1. The limits of each of the 



Under 2,500 

2,501-5,000 

5,001-7,500 

7,501-10,000 

10,001-15,000 

15,001-50,000 

Above 50,000 



Enrollment of School. 
Fig. 1. — First and third quartiles and median enrollment. — The limits of each line represent the first 
and third quartiles for its particular group of cities. The central point represents the median 
enrollment. 

horizontal lines represent the first and third quartiles, and the point 
near the middle of the line the median of each group of schools when 
grouped according to the size of city in which they are located. In 
other words, each line represents the range of the middle 50 per cent 
of the schools situated in each size of city. 

The great range in size of schools in large cities is doubtless due to 
the fact that the range of conditions is greater than in the smaller 
cities. The large city with its large population is divided into many 
different social groups on the basis of nationality, varied religions, 
industrial and commercial interests, etc. Each group has its peculiar 
needs which must be met by schools of different sorts. The large city, 
therefore, maintains all sorts and kinds of schools because its needs 
are of all sorts and of all kinds. Because of concentration of popu- 
lation and resources a great many special and private schools are main- 
tained in addition to the usually large pubhc high schools. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



41 



We also notice a rather large variation in the size of schools from 
State to State. The median enrollment for the several States ranges 
from 106 in North Dakota to 243 in Indiana. It seems that the large 
enrollments are found in the older and more densely populated 
States, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Iowa, and the smaller 
enrollments in the newer States and where the population is more 
scattered. North Dakota, Nebraska, and South Dakota. 

In most cases the results obtained here are in agreement with the 
findings of Coffman and Jessup in their investigation based upon these 
same reports for the year 1912-13, except that the median enrollment 
as found by them is with few exceptions slightly less than that shown 
in Table II. 

Table III. 



Illinois. 



In- 
diana. 



Iowa. 



Michi- 
gan. 



Min- 
nesota. 



Mis- 
souri. 



Mon- 
tana. 



Number of students in fourth year 

Number in third year 

Number in second year 

Number in first year 

Total 

Number of schools 

Per cent of students in fourth year 

Per cent iij third year 

Per cent in second year 

Per cent in first year 



5,351 
6,498 
9,609 
13,810 



2,492 
2,864 
3,996 
5,116 



2,399 

2,844 
3,726 
4,998 



2,924 
3,429 
4,978 
7,142 



3,260 
4,170 
5,530 
7.904 



2,885 
3,690 
4,856 
7,428 



1,633 
2,205 
3,296 
5,568 



320 
410 
567 
860 



35,268 
102 
15.2 
18.4 
27.2 
39.2 



14,468 
49 
17.2 
19.8 
27.7 
35.3 



13,967 
53 
17.2 
20.3 
26.7 
35.8 



18,473 
73 
15.8 
18.5 
27.0 
38.7 



20, 864 
85 
15.6 
20.0 
26.5 
37.9 



18, 859 
61 
15.3 
19.6 
25.7 
39.4 



12, 702 
36 
12.8 
17.2 
26.0 
44.0 



2,157 
10 
14.8 
19.1 
26.2 
39.9 





Nebraska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


Number of students in fourth 


1,384 
1,649 
1,964 
3,034 


584 

674 

929 

1,504 


6,845 
8,272 
10,930 
15,289 


487 

607 

907 

1,262 


450 

540 

765 

1,120 


3,351 
4,126 
5,163 
6,995 


34,365 
41,978 
57,216 


Number in third year 


Number in second year 


Number in first year 


82,030 




Total 


8,031 
43 

17.2 
20.6 
24.4 
37.8 


3,691 
28 

15.8 
18.3 
25.2 
40.7 


41,336 
124 

16.6 
20.0 
26.4 
37.0 


3,263 
14 

15.0 
18.6 
27.7 
38.7 


2,875 
15 

15.6 
18.8 
26.7 
38.9 


19,635 
72 

17.1 
21.0 
26.3 
35.6 


215,589 
765 


Number of schools 


Per cent of students in fourth 


15.9 


Per cent in third year 


19.5 


Per cent in second year 


26 5 


Per cent in first year 


38.1 







Table IV. 



Under 
2,500 



Number of students in fourth year 

Number in third year 

Number in second year 

Number in first year 

Total 

Number of schools 

Percent of students in fourth year. 

Per cent in third year 

Per cent in second year 

Per cent in first year 



3,740 
4,383 
5,538 
7,420 



21,081 
165 
17.8 
20.8 
26.2 
35.2 



2,501- 
5,000 



6,003 
6,945 
8,648 
12, 238 



33,834 
200 
17.7 
20.0 
25.6 
36.1 



5,001- 
7,500 



3,800 
4,683 
6,028 
8,548 



23,059 
105 
16.5 
20.3 
26.2 
37.0 



7,501- 
10,000 



3,117 
4,040 
5,412 

7,752 



20,321 
74 
15.4 
19.9 
26.6 
38.1 



10,001- 
15,000 



3,667 
4,605 
6,320 
8,960 



23,552 
69 
15.5 
19.5 
26.9 
38.1 



15,001- 
50,000 



5,880 

7,404 

10,029 

14,332 



37,645 
74 
15.6 
19.6 
26.7 
38.1 



50,001 
and 
over. 



8,158 
9,918 
15,241 
22,780 



56,097 
78 
14.5 
17.7 
27.2 
40.6 



Total. 



34,365 
41,978 
57,216 
82,030 



215,589 
765 
15.9 
19.5 
26.5 
38.1 



42 STUDY OP COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

DISTRIBUTION OP STUDENTS IN THE POUR YEARS. 

One of the great problems confronting secondary education is that 
of keeping students in the high school after they have enrolled 
for the freshman year. One of the measures of the inefficiency of a 
school is found in its inability to keep its students in school long 
enough for thein to complete a well-rounded curriculum, even if this 
is only a two-year course. The extent to which a school holds its 
students tells in some degree the extent to which that school is meet- 
ing the needs of its students and of the community in which it is 
situated. 

Concerning the distribution of students in the four years of the 
high school we have reports from 765 schools. Tables III and IV 
are based upon these reports, the one showing the variation in the 
distribution of students from State to State, and the other from city 
to city. Each table is composed of two parts, the upper half giving 
the exact numbers of students found in each of the four years in the 
various States and groups of cities and the lower half the percentages. 
Thus the first column of Table III would be read in this way : Of the 
35,268 students in the 102 schools reporting from Illinois, 5,351, or 
15.2 per cent, are in the fourth year; 6,498, or 18.4 per cent, in the 
third year; 9,609, or 27.2 per cent, in the second year; and 13,810, or 
39.2 per cent, in the first year. Table IV is read in the same way. 

From an examination of the tables it is not difficult to see in what 
year there is the greatest number of students. The number m the 
first year ranges from 35.3 per cent in Indiana to 44 per cent in 
Missouri, and in the fourth year from 12.8 per cent in Missouri to 17.2 
per cent in Indiana, Iowa, and Nebraska. Thus it is seen that, 
while there is in every case a very large preponderance of students 
in the first year, the schools in some States hold their students con- 
siderably better on the average than those in other States. This 
variation probably has some relation to variations in population 
and enrollment. But that population is not the only factor to be 
considered is brought out by the fact that the variation is greater 
from State to State than from cities of one size to cities of another 
size. The same may also be said of enrollment, since the median- 
sized school in Indiana is larger than in any other State. Yet In- 
diana surpasses aU the other States in the ability to hold students. 
The factors which operate in holding a student in school or in causing 
him to drop out are undoubtedly many and complex. 

This same variation is shown in the groups of cities, although not 
so markedly as in the case of the States. There seems to be a greater 
tendency, however, for students to l6ave school in the large cities 
than in the small cities, since the percentage of students in the fourth 
year decreases more or less gradually from 17.8 per cent in cities 
having a population of 2,500 or less to 14.5 per cent in cities of over 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



43 



), ■ — 

1 
1 












ENTIRE ASS'N 






MISSOURI 

INDIANA 
















































I 










r I 
1 ' 






i ! 








1 1 


1 
















L 




















































L L 


1 
1 




















1 
1 










1 











IN FIRST YEAR 



SECOND YEAR 



THIRD YEAR 



FOURTH YEAR 



Fig. 2.— Distribution of students in the four high-school years in Montana, Missouri, Indiana, and the 
entire North Central Association. 



44 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



42 



39 



30 



g7 



24 



21 



H 18 



15 



12 



L 



CITIES WITH POPULATION: 

ABOVE 50,000 — 

10,001 - 15,000 

5,001 - 7,500 

UNDER 2,500 



^■1 



IN FITtST YEAR SECOND YEAR THIRD YEAR FOURTH YEAR 

Fig. 3.— Distribution of students in the four high-school years in different groups of cities. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



45 



50,000 population, and the percentage in the first year mcreases from 

35.2 per cent to 40.6 per cent. This is probably due to the fact that 

in the large cities there are more temptations of economic, social, or 

antisocial character to draw the interests of the student from the 

school. 

Table V. 



United 

States, 

1912. 



North-Cen- 
tral Asso- 
ciation, 
1913-14. 



Per cent of students in fourth year 

Per cent in third year 

Per cent in second year 

Per cent in first year 

Total 



13.45 
18.50 
27.05 
41.00 



15.90 
19.50 
26.50 
38.10 



100.00 



100. 00 



In figures 2 and 3 an attempt is made to bring out this variaion. 
The four curves in figure 2 represent the two extreme States in this 
matter of distribution of students — Missouri and Indiana — a median 
State — Illinois — and the association as a whole. In figm-e 3 the four 
curves represent the two extreme groups of cities and two intermediate 
groups. The bar diagrams in figure 4 bring out the distribution of 
students in the four years for the entire association. It can readily 
be seen from this figure that there is not only absolutely more drop- 
ping out of school between the first and second years than between 
any other two years, but that there is proportionately more. 



In first year 
In second year 
In third year - 



82,030 



57,216 



41,978 



34,365 



In fourth year 



Fig. 4. — Number of students in different high-school years (in entire association). 

It is interesting to make a comparison between the schools of 
the North Central Association and the schools of the United States 
as a whole in this matter of distribution of the students in the four 
years. Table V gives us such a comparison. The percentages for 
the United States were taken from page 7 of the second volume of 
the United States Commissioner's Report for 1913 and are based 
upon the estimated distribution of the enroUment for 1912. The 
figures sHghtly favor the schools of the association. If the figures 
are correct, the difference in favor of the association is probably 
due to the fact that these schools are a selected group, having better 
equipment, teachers, etc., than the average school and located in a 
section of the country in which much attention is being given to 
secondary education. 



46 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table VI. 





First 
year. 


Second 

year. 


Third 
year. 


Fourth 
year. 


Total. 


Number of students who dropped out of school 

Percentage of students who dropped out of sehooL . . 


4,431 
48.4 


2,869 
31.3 


1,624 
17.6 


248 
2.7 


9,172 
100 



A matter somewhat related to that just discussed is found in Table 
VI. A special inquiry was made regarding the number of students 
who had dropped out of school from the class graduating in 1913. 
The class in question was the freshman class in 1909-10, the sopho- 
more class in 1910-11, the junior class in 1911-12, and the senior 
class in 1912-13. Reports were received from 271 schools. An 
analysis of these 271 reports has given us Table VI. The table is 
read thus: Of the 9,172 students dropping out of school who belonged 
to the freshman class of 1908-9, 4,431, or 48.4 per cent, dropped out 
during the first or freshman year; 2,869, or 31.3 per cent, during the 
second or sophomore year; 1,624, or 17.6 per cent, during the third or 
junior year; and only 248, or 2.7 per cent, during the fourth or senior 
year. 

This table clearly shows that the chances that a student will drop 
out of school before graduation rapidly grow less the longer he remains 
in school. Very nearly 80 per cent of those who leave school before 
graduation drop out before the junior year, while only 2.7 per cent 
drop out during the senior year. 

48.4 per cent. 



During first year 



During second year ■ 



During third year - 



31.3 per cent. 



17.6 per cent. 



7.7 per cent. 



During fourth year • 

Fig. 5. — Percentage of students dropping out of school in different high-school years. 

In figure 5 the relation of one high-school year to another in this 
respect is very clearly shown by the use of bar diagrams. 

Table VII. 



Number of students per class. 


Illinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Missouri. 


1 10 


849 
2,435 
3,313 

870 
93 


445 

1,536 

1,395 

73 

6 


2.50 

1,044 

1,239 

78 

3 


496 
1,426 
1,756 

234 
43 


612 
1,836 
1,898 

222 
25 


459 
1,446 
1,650 

206 
42 


416 


11 20 


936 


21-30 


1,333 


31-40 ,. 

41 50 


246 
62 






Total 


7,560 

21.5 

115 

11.2 
32.2 

43.8 
11.5 
1.3 


3,453 

18.5 
51 

12.9 

44.5 

40.4 

2.1 

.1 


2,614 
20 

48 

9.5 
40.0 
47.4 

3.0 

.1 


3,955 
26 
73 

12.6 
36.0 
44.4 
.5.9 
1.1 


4,593 
19 
81 

13.3 
40.0 

41.4 

4.8 

.5 


3,803 

20 

, 58 

12.1 
38.0 
43.4 
5.4 
1.1 


2,993 


Median 


21 




41 


Per cent of classes having— 


13.9 


11 20 


31.3 


21-30 


44.5 


31-40 


8.2 


U-oO 


2.1 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table VII — Continued. 



47 



Number of students per class. 


Nebraska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


1-10 


232 
615 

687 

59 




227 

486 

255 

21 

9 


471 
2,571 
4,467 

453 
36 


105 
238 
228 
59 
13 


73 
280 
259 

22 
3 


388 
1,384 
1,683 

175 
21 


5,023 


11-20 


16,233 


21 30 . . 


20,163 


31-40 


2,718 


41-,50 


356 






Total 


1,593 
19 
44 

14.6 

38.6 

43.1 

3.7 

.0 


998 

15.5 

27 

22.7 

48.8 

25.5 

2.1 

.9 


7,998 
22 
126 

5.9 
32.1 

55.8 

5.7 

.5 


643 
19 
13 

16.3 

37.0 

35.5 

9.2 

2.0 


637 
19 
14 

11.5 
44.0 
40.7 
3.5 
.3 


3,651 

20.5 

65 

10.6 

37.9 

46.1 

4.8 

.6 


44,493 


Median 


20 




756 


Per cent of classes having— 


11.3 


11-20 


36.5 


21-30 


45.3 


31-40 . 


6.1 




.8 






Number of students per class. 


0-1 00 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


.501-1,000 


1,001 and 
over. 


Total. 




831 
950 
306 
39 
9 


1,873 

4,795 

3,200 

491 

36 


774 
3,000 
3,112 

324 
46 


920 
3,602 
4,957 

523 

74 


335 
2,147 
3, .319 

354 
61 


290 

1,739 

5,269 

987 

1.30 


5,023 


11-20 


16,233 


21-30 ■; 


20, 163 


31-40 


2,718 


41-50 


356 






Total.. . 


2, 135 
12.5 

78 

38.9 

44.5 
14.4 

1.8 
.4 


10,-395 

17 

305 

18.0 
46.1 
30.7 

4.8 
.4 


7,256 
19.5 
146 

10.7 

41.4 

42.8 

4.5 

.6 


10,076 
21 
139 

9.2 
a).7 
49.2 

5.2 

.7 


6,216 
22 
51 

5.4 

34.5 

53.4 

5.7 

1.0 


8,415 
24 

37 

3.5 
20.7 
62.5 
11.7 

1.6 


44, 493 


Median 


20 


Number of schools 


756 


Per cent of classes having — 




11 20 




21 30 




31 40 













SIZE OF CLASSES. 



The size of a class has a great deal to do with the efficiency of 
instruction. The association, considering classes of over 30 too large 
to secure the maximum of efficiency, discourages the maintenance of 
classes of this size. 

Table VII represents the analysis of 756 reports concerning the size 
of classes. This table is composed of two parts, the one showing the 
relation of location in the different States, the other the relation of 
enrollment in the schools to the size of classes. And again each of 
these parts is divided into two divisions, the upper giving the actual 
number of cases and the lower the percentages. The table should be 
read thus: Of the 7,560 classes in the 115 schools in Illinois reporting 
on this item, 849, or 11.2 per cent, have from 1 to 10 students; 2,435, 
or 32.2 per cent, have from 11 to 20; 3,313, or 43.8 per cent, have 
from 21 to 30, etc., and the median size of class for the State of Illi- 
nois is 21^ students. 

For the entire association it is seen that the median is 20 students 
per class and that the largest percentage of classes, 45.3 per cent, is 
found in classes of the third size, those having from 21 to 30 students. 
As to median the States range from 15^ in North Dakota to 26 in 



48 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Kansas. The largest percentage of classes is found in classes of the 
thu'd size, except in the States of Indiana, North Dakota, Oklahoma, 
and South Dakota, in which States the greatest number of classes is 
found in the second group, i. e., those having from 11 to 20 students. 
The frequency of the small classes having 10 students or less varies 
from 22.7 per cent in North Dakota to 5.9 per cent in Ohio, while the 
percentage of classes of more than 30 students varies from 2.2 per 
cent in Indiana to 12.8 per cent in lUinois. 

From the foregoing it is evident that the size of class is by no means 
standardized and that there is a great variation from State to State. 
This variation is probably due in many cases to the presence or 
absence of large high schools within the State, but that large high 
schools do not always necessitate large classes is proved by the case 
of Indiana, where we find the smallest percentage of large classes 
combined with the largest median enrollment. Another important 
factor which probably operates in a good many cases is the rapid 
increase in enrollment from year' to year, with the result that the 
facihties for instruction lag a year or two behind the actual needs of 
the school. 

A further examination of the table shows that there is a positive 
correlation between enrollment and size of classes. The median 
increases steadily from 12 J in schools having an enrollment of 100 or 
less to 24, nearly double, in schools with an enrollment of 1,001 or 
larger; the percentage of small classes of from 1 to 10 students 
decreases from 38.9 per cent in the smallest schools to 3.5 per cent in 
the largest schools; and the percentage of classes with over 30 stu- 
dents increases from 2.2 per cent in the smallest schools to 13.3 per 
cent in the largest. It is a notable fact in this connection that while 
in the majority of features the large schools show a greater tendency 
to vary among themselves than the small schools, the exact opposite 
is true here. The largest percentage of classes found in any one 
group anywhere in the table is 62.5 per cent, which is the percentage 
of classes of 21 to 30 students in schools having an enrollment of 
1,001 and over. 

This relation between size of classes and enrollment is shoAvn graph- 
ically in figures 6 and 7. In figure 6 the bar diagrams represent the 
median size of class for the schools grouped according to enrollment. 
The four curves in figure 7 are based upon the percentage tables 
showing the relation between size of class and enrollment. 

This great variation in size of classes presents a rather serious 
problem to secondary education. If the work done in a large class 
is as efiicient as that done in a small class, then there are many 
teachers in many schools who are not using their energy or the 
finances of the public school to the best advantage. If, on the other 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



49 



hand, as is probably much nearer the truth, the individual students 
in the large classes are not so efficiently taught as they would be if 
the classes were smaller, the definition of the unit of the North 
Central Association should be restated or the size of classes stand- 



Above 1,000 - 

501-1,000 - - - 
301-500 - - - - 
201-300 - - - - 
101-200 - - - - I 



19.5 



1-100 



Fig. 6. — Median number of students per class in schools having diflerent enrollments. 

ardized to a greater extent than we find them at present. It is true, 
of course, that the size of class that can be taught most efficiently 
varies with the subject and with the teacher, but hardly to the extent 
that it is found to be varying in the association. 

Table VIII. 



Students per teacher. 


.a 

o 

•1 




c3 
1 


i 
i 


d 
1 


03 
O 


3 


C3 


03 
O 

a 

P 

i 


6 



1 

3 



c3 



Q 

1 
02 


4 

a 



3 

B 


2 




1 








1 
1 

1 

2 
2 
3 
5 
2 
3 
9 
3 
6 
13 
3 
3 
2 
2 




1 






1 






3 
1 
1 

1 

3 
2 

2 
3 
6 

14 
8 

10 
9 
4 

10 
4 
6 
2 
2 
2 
1 
2 

] 


1 


















2 


3 








.... 
1 


2 
1 
4 
4 
4 
5 
8 
11 
3 
4 
2 
2 
1 
5 
4 
1 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 


2 



1 
1 
2 
2 
1 

1 
4 
3 

1 

3 
4 
5 
3 
4 
6 
1 
2 

2 
2 



1 














2 


4 








1 


3 

1 
1 
1 




1 


3 

1 
1 
3 
6 
8 
4 


"2 

1 
2 

6 
4 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 


1 

3 
1 
1 
2 
1 
2 

2 
4 
1 
3 
5 
4 
10 
10 
12 
9 
8 
12 
9 
16 
13 
6 
8 
4 
1 
2 
1 
3 








2 


5 


3 
3 
3 

1 

2 

4 

5 

4 

1 

6 

7 

6 

6 

11 

8 

15 

12 

12 

4 

11 
6 
4 
2 
5 

3 
1 


"i' 





1 

2 
3 
6 
6 

8 
8 
7 
7 
4 
4 
3 
2 
1 


1 


1 
2 



1 


1 

2 
1 
2 

4 
2 
8 
8 
8 
8 
5 
8 
5 
1 
2 
4 
1 

1 








4 


6 


.... 


2 

1 
1 
1 
1 
2 

1 
2 

1 
1 
2 
2 


1 








1 

2 
3 
3 
1 
1 
2 
1 


1 
1 




1 






1 

1 

2 
4 
5 
8 
8 
8 
10 
8 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
2 
3 


14 

8 


7 


8 


9 


11 
13 
17 
21 


10 


11 


12 


13 


23 
32 

38 
48 


14 


15 


16 


17 


52 


18 


74 


19 


73 

84 


20 


21 


76 
55 


22 


7 * 


23 


3 


2 

1 
1 
2 

1 




59 
48 


24 


25 


36 
31 
30 
24 


26 


27 


28 


29 


12 


30 






13 
3 


31 V 








32 


















4 


33 




















1 


34 
























3 


62 


















" 






1 




145 
20 


63 
19 


64 
19 


75 
20 


71 


51 
20 


51 
20 


28 
12 


154 
23 


18 
21 


18 
16 


89 
19 




Total 


98 


925 


Median 


20 17 


20 











80790°— 15 



50 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



64 

























SCHOOLS HAVING 
ENROLMENTS : 1- 

aoi- 

201- 
1001- 


100 






































( 1 
/ 1 
( 1 






























A 


1 \ 














r^' 


( — I \ 














l/y 
















//' \ 


\ \ 


1 

1 
\ 

1 












1 r 


\ \ 
\ \ * 


I 

\ 
\ 
\ 










1 / ' 
/ / ' 
J / / 


1 
1 
1 


\ \ * 

\ \ ' 


1 
\ 
t 
\ 










/ / ' 
\ / ' 
1 / ' 


1 
1 
1 














/ / 1 
If 


1 

1 














I 1 
1 1 
/ // 


1 
1 
1 
I 




\» ' 
\ 1 1 










Ml ' 
1 ' 






A\ 










1 ' 1 






v \ 


\ 








y 






\_ ^^ 


**. ^^^^ 









— 10 — 20 — 30 — 40 — 50 
NUMBER STUDENTS PER CLASS 

Fig. 7.— Relation between size of classes and enrollment. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table VIII— Continued. 



51 



students per teacher. 


u 


1 
§ 

IN 


1 




s 

o 

lO 

1 

o 
o 
o 




i 

8 





8 
1 

2 
1 

2 

3 
13 
5 
10 
5 
6 
11 
6 
8 
5 
7 
5 


4 
4 

97 
11 


2 


"{' 



1 

1 

2 

1 

4 

6 

5 

13 

15 

19 

26 

34 

36 

37 

36 

31 

27 

16 

13 

7 

8 

7 

9 

6 

2 

2 







1 

369 

18 


1 

"i' 


1 

1 
2 

4 
1 
4 
11 

23 

17 

17 

21 

16 

19 

10 

8 

8 

5 

4 

4 

2 







1 

180 
21 


1 


m 

"{' 

1 







4 

4 

5 

4 

12 

10 

16 

17 

11 

12 

16 

10 

6 

8 

6 

3 

3 

1 

2 

1 

1 

154 
22 


1* 

s 
.... 

2 
6 

11 
9 

10 
7 
8 
7 
6 
3 
2 
1 

1 
2 



1 

77 
22 


> 


■a 
a 

C3 

8 

■;■ 

"2 
2 
2 

8 
7 
3 
4 
5 
6 
2 
6 
1 

48 
26 




Eh 


2 






1 






1 
1 


2 
4 
3 
5 
4 
5 
5 

10 

13 

12 

15 

12 

5 

7 

4 

1 

3 

5 

2 









2 


1 
2 


4 

1 

2 


? 

1 
3 
2 
5 

8 
7 
8 
8 
5 
1 
6 
7 
3 
3 
1 
4 
1 


1 








2 
2 
2 

4 

14 

8 
11 
11 
13 
17 
21 
23 
32 
38 
48 
52 
74 
73 
84 
76 
55 
59 
48 
36 
31 
30 
24 
12 
13 
3 
4 
1 
3 
1 

925 
20. 


2 


3 












2 


4 


1 
1 
3 
3 

4 
5 
2 

8 

7 

10 

7 

11 

20 

17 

18 

21 

16 

11 

9 

7 

3 

2 

2 

3 

3 

1 

1 


"i' 



1 

1 

3 

6 

5 

7 

12 

13 

17 

15 

25 

IS 

23 

18 

8 

20 

8 

9 

12 

7 

2 



4 









1 

233 
19 






1 
2 
3 
3 
3 
4 
4 
1 

1 
3 
2 
1 
1 
3 
2 
8 
6 
4 

13 
10 
6 
8 
7 
8 
3 
4 
2 


2 


5 


"2 


1 




1 


2 

1 
2 
4 
5 
6 
9 
7 
2 
7 
5 
2 
4 
4 
5 
1 
2 

1 


1 
1 
2 


2 

2 
1 
2 
4 
1 
5 
5 
9 
8 
11 
15 
6 
9 
6 
1 
3 

1 
1 
1 
3 

1 


4 


6 


14 


7 


8 


8 


11 


9 


11 


10 


13 


11 


17 


12 


21 


13 


23 


14 


32 


15 


38 


16 


48 


17 


52 


18 


74 


19 


73 


20 


84 


21 


76 


22 


55 


23 


59 


24 


48 


25 


3fi 




31 


27 


30 




24 


29 


12 




13 


31 


3 


32 




4 


33 




1 


34 




3 


62 








1 


Total 


196 
17 


122 
20 


87 
20 


73 
21 


101 
21 


113 
23 


925 


Median 


20 



NUMBER OF STUDENTS PER TEACHER. 

An aspect of the high school very closely related to the size of classes 
and upon which the size of classes very largely depends is the number 
of students per teacher. If a school is deficient in its number of 
teachers, the size of classes in many cases will have to be increased. 
That the association recognizes the prime importance of this factor 
for efficiency is shown by the following statement found in its 
standards : 

All schools whose records show an excessive number of pupils per teacher, as based 
on average number belonging, even though they may technically meet all other 
requirements, are rejected. The association recognizes 30 as a maximum. 

Let us see if this standard requirement is met by all the schools of 
the association. 

Table VIII, based upon the reports of 925 schools representing 13 
States, shows just where each school stands in this matter of the 
number of students per teacher. The analysis of the reports has been 
made on the three bases of State, population, and enrollment. The 
table should be read as follows: Of the 145 schools reporting from 



52 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

the State of lUinois, 3 have a teacher for every 5 students, 3 a teacher 
for every 6 students, 3 a teacher for every 7 students, etc., and the 
median number of students per teacher for the entire State is 20. 

The surprising fact, which is seen at once, is the great variation from 
school to school in this matter. Two schools report 1 teacher for every 
2 students, while 1 reports only 1 teacher for every 62 students; and 
20, which is the most frequent number of students per teacher, is 
but slightly more frequent than either 18, 19, or 21. We find a con- 
siderable variation in the median among the States, ranging from 12 
in North Dakota to 23 in Ohio. Of schools having over 30 students 
per teacher there are 12, of which 7 are in the State of Ohio; and 
there are 13 schools with just 30 students per teacher. 

The evidence of correlation between density of population and the 
number of students per teacher is not in accord with the results 
obtained by Coffman and Jessup in their investigation of a year ago. 
They found that there was no correlation between the two. As 
shown by the median here, which increases with the population or size 
of city from 17 to 23, there does seem to be some correlation. How- 
ever, the correlation is evidently an indirect correlation. It is really 
between enrollment and number of students per teacher, but, since 
the large schools are usually found in the large cities, there is seemingly 
a correlation with density of population. 

That enrollment is the real factor influencing the number of 
students per teacher is very clearly shown by an examination of that 
portion of the table in which the grouping of schools is made on the 
basis of enrollment. It is seen that the median increases from only 
11 in the schools having enroUments of 100 and less to 26 in the 
schools of enrollments of 1,001 and over. It is a noteworthy fact that 
between the very smallest schools and the next group larger, and 
between the very largest schools and the next group smaller, are 
found the greatest differences between the medians, while the 
medians of the four intermediate groups of schools vary but little. 
The very small number of students per teacher foim.d in the schools 
of 100 students and under may be due to the fact that, since the 
association sets four teachers as a minimum, those small schools 
which do have a large number of students per teacher are not admitted 
to membership in the association because they do not have a sufficient 
number of teachers. Of course, this is not the sole cause, but simply 
one of the many factors operating. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 53 

The influence of enrollment upon number of students per teacher 
is brought out again in figure 8, the bar diagrams representing the 
medians in Table VIII. 

Table IX, in which the average number of students per teacher 
has been worked out, is simply a view from another angle of the 
material presented in Table VIII. 

26 
Above 1,000 - l^^^^^HHi^^HHH^^^^^HHI^^^HM 

22 
501-1,000 - - - i^^^Bi^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

22 

m^^^^mm^^^^i^ammmi^m^^ 

21 
^Hi^^^HBH^^^^^^HB^^ 

18 

11 

1-100 ^^■■■■i^^^ 

Fig. 8. — Median number of students per teacher in schools having different enrollments. 

In conclusion, it may be said that the number of students per 
teacher presents a feature of the school which is far from being 
standardized, and that even the rather liberal requirement of one 
teacher for every 30 students is not being Uved up to in at least 12 
instances. Of course, the number of students that can be handled 
most efficiently by a teacher depends partly upon the teacher. One 
teacher may be able to teach 30 students just as weU as another can 
teach 10, and the smaU number of students per teacher in the small 
schools may be more than counterbalanced by the presence of more 
efficient teachers in the large schools. Nevertheless, it is evident 
that in many cases there are either too many or too few teachers. 

In the standards of the association the emphasis is placed upon 
the number of students per teacher rather than upon the number of 
students per class. It would seem that this is misplaced emphasis, 
because the number of students per teacher is significant only in so 
far as it determines the number of students per class. It is in the 
class that the instruction is given. The number of students per 
teacher may be very low, and yet the number of students in some 
classes much too high for efficient instruction. 



54 



STTJDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table IX. 



Total number of teachers 

Total enrollment 

Number of pupUs per teacher 



Under 
2,500 



1,637 

28, 345 

17.4 



2,501- 
5,000 



2,115 

40,309 

19.1 



5,001- 
7,500 



1,349 

25,952 

19.3 



7,501- 
10,000 



1,228 

23, 404 

19.1 



10,001- 
15,000 



1,187 

24,338 

20.6 



15,001- 
50,000 



2,492 

52,082 

21.0 



50,001 
and 



4,034 

94,213 

23.4 



Total. 



14,042 

288, 693 

20.6 





Tllinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Missouri. 


Total number of teachers 

Total enrollment 


2,502 

51,977 

20.8 


1,137 

23,203 

20.4 


969 

19,530 

20.1 


943 

19,700 

20.9 


1,516 

31,243 

20.6 


1,156 

24,411 

21.1 


945 
18,378 


Number of pupils per teacher. . . 


19.5 





Nebras- 
ka. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


Total number of teachers 


510 

9,452 

18.5 


285 

3,898 

13.7 


2,340 

53,046 

22.7 


231 

4,375 

19.0 


189 

3,313 

17.5 


1,319 

25,967 

19.7 


14,042 
288,693 


Number of pupils per teacher. . . 


20.0 



Table X. 



Number of teachers. 


Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 








1 

8 

16 

32 

25 

18 

12 

1 

5 





1 








1 
5 
1 
4 
6 
2 
4 
2 
3 
5 
5 
4 
3 
7 
4 
3 
2 
4 
5 
5 
2 
7 
2 
2 
3 
2 
4 
2 
4 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 


2 


5-6 


57 

76 

33 

16 

2 

3 

1 

3 

1 





1 



1 

1 


28 

62 

78 

42 

12 

5 



2 


3 

6 

10 

19 

18 

12 

7 

6 

4 

1 



1 







1 


1 

1 

7 

5 

17 

13 

11 

6 

6 

2 

2 



1 

1 


3 
2 
1 
2 
2 
9 
8 

19 
6 
8 

11 
2 
5 
2 
3 
2 
2 
1 
3 
2 


2 
3 
1 




1 


105 


7 8 


164 


9-10 


165 


11 12 


115 


13-14 


71 


15-16 


58 


17 18 


30 


19-20 


44 


21 22 


22 


23-24 


16 


25-26 


18 


27 28 


7 


29-30 






13 


31 32 






8 


33 34 






7 


35 36 






5 


37 38 








6 


39-40 












6 


41 42 












8 


43-44 












4 


45-46 












7 


47-48 












2 


49_50 












4 


61 52 












6 


53-54 












3 


55-56 












4 


57 5§ 












2 


59 60 












4 


61 72 












2 


63-64 












1 


67 68 














2 


69-70 














2 


71-72 














2 


75-76 














1 


97 98 














1 


101 102 














1 


















Total number of schools 


195 

8 


229 
9 


119 
11 


88 
13 


73 
15 


100 
22 


114 
33 


918 
11 







STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XL 



55 



Total number of teachers 

Number of new teachers 

New teachers inexperienced 

New teachers with no special 
pedagogic preparation 

New teachers not college grad- 
uates 

Old teachers not college grad- 
uates 

Old teachers with no special 
pedagogic preparation 

Total teachers not college grad- 
uates 

Total teachers with no special 
pedagogic preparation 

Per centofnew teachers 

Per cent of new teachers inex- 
perienced 

Per cent of new teachers with 
no special pedagogic prepara- 
tion 

Per cent of new teachers not 
college graduates 

Per cent of old teachers not 
college graduates 

Per cent of old teachers with 
no special pedagogic prepara- 
tion 

Per cent not college graduates i . 

Per cent with no special peda- 
gogic preparation ' 

Number of schools 



Illinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


2,502 

4C7 
61 


1,137 
240 
40 


969 

326 

80 


943 
327 
100 


1,516 
351 
122 


1,156 
344 

78 


55 


22 


12 


26 


14 


30 


79 


47 


21 


58 


40 


SO 


330 


138 


92 


126 


161 


124 


226 


47 


38 


26 


40 


51 


409 


185 


113 


184 


201 


174 


281 
18.7 


69 
21.1 


50 
33.6 


52 
34.7 


54 
23.1 


81 
29.7 


13.1 


16.7 


24.6 


30.6 


34.9 


22.7 


11.8 


9.2 


3.7 


7.9 


4.0 


8.7 


16.9 


19.6 


6.4 


17.7 


11.4 


14.5 


16.2 


15.4 


14.3 


20.5 


13.8 


15.3 


11.1 
16.3 


5.2 
16.3 


5.9 
11.7 


4.2 
19.5 


3.4 
13.3 


6.3 
15.0 


11.2 
141 


6.1 

61 


5.2 
65 


5.5 
75 


3.6 
96 


7.0 
71 



Missouri. 



Total number of teachers 

Number of new teachers , 

New teachers inexperienced 

New teachers with no special 
pedagogic preparation , 

New teachers not college grad- 
uates 

Old teachers not college grad- 
uates 

Old teachers with no special 
pedagogic preparation 

Total teachers not college grad- 
uates 

Total teachers with no special 
pedagogic preparation 

Per cent of new teachers 

Per cent of new teachers inex- 
perienced 

Per cent of new teachers with 
no special pedagogic prepara- 
tion 

Per cent of new teachers not 
college graduates 

Per cent of old teachers not 
college graduates 

Per cent of old teachers with 
no special pedagogic prepara- 
tion 

Per cent not college graduates i. 

Per cent with no special peda- 
gogic preparation i 

Number of schools 



945 
226 



22 
59 

168 
42 

227 

64 
23.9 

2.1.7 
9.7 

2!;.i 

23.8 



5.8 
21.0 



G.8 
51 



Nebraska 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


510 
172 
32 


285 
114 
24 


2,340 
493 
116 


231 
109 
17 


189 
81 
23 


1,319 
411 
84 


8 


10 


76 


3 


7 


29 


29 


28 


55 


18 


16 


73 


51 


26 


274 


20 


9 


169 


14 


8 


138 


4 


3 


57 


80 


54 


329 


38 


25 


242 


22 
33.7 


18 
40.0 


214 
21.1 


7 
47.2 


10 
42.9 


86 
30.7 


18.6 


21.1 


23.5 


15.6 


28.4 


20.5 


4.6 


8.8 


15.4 


2.8 


8.6 


7.0 


16.8 


24.6 


11.2 


16.5 


19.9 


17.8 


15.1 


15.2 


14.8 


16.4 


8.3 


18.6 


4.1 

15.7 


4.7 
19.0 


7.4 
14.1 


3.3 
16.5 


2.8 
13.2 


6.3 

18.4 


4.3 
51 


6.3 

28 


9.2 
154 


3.1 

18 


5.3 
18 


6.6 
89 



Total. 

14,042 
3,C01 

8-54 

314 
573 

l,r8S 
094 

2,2i:i 

1,008 
26.2 

23.3 

8.6 
15.7 
16.3 



0.7 
16.2 



7.8 
918 



> These percentages are based upon the total number of teachers. 
THE TEACHING STAFF. 

It should be said in this connection that the facts relating to the 
teaching staff will be dealt with further and in much greater detail 
in a subsequent report based upon the teachers' cards. The bulk of 
that material has retarded its preparation. 



56 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

The teaching staff and 'population. — In Table X we have the results 
of an analysis of 918 reports concerning the relation between number 
of teachers per school and the population of the cities in which the 
schools are located. This table should be read thus: Of the 195 
schools situated in cities having a population of 2,500 or less, 57 have 
5 or 6 teachers, 76 have 7 or 8, 33 have 9 or 10, etc.; and in the 
whole association there are two schools with but 4 teachers, 105 with 
5 or 6, etc. 

The same thing is noticed here that was brought out in connection 
with the discussion regarding the relation between enrollment and 
population. The great variation in the number of teachers per 
school is found in the large cities, as is the great variation in size of 
school. In the smaller cities the number of teachers per school is 
practically uniform. 

The correlation between the number of teachers per school and 
population is expressed in the median which increases from 8 in the 
cities with a population of 2,500 or less to 33 in cities of over 50,000 
population. 

Training and experience. — Table XI is a rather complex table based 
upon the grouping of the 918 schools reporting according to States. 
In this table the actual number of teachers is given along with several 
items of information regarding training and experience. The table 
is divided into two parts, one giving the actual numbers, the other 
the percentages. It should be read as foUows: In the 141 schools 
reporting from the State of Illinois are 2,502 teachers, of whom 467 
are new to the school systems in which they are teaching; of these 
new teachers 61 are without experience, 55 have had no special peda- 
gogic preparation, and 79 are not graduates of a standard college; 
among the old teachers there are 330 who are not coUege graduates, 
and 226 who have had no special pedagogic i)reparation; of both old 
and new teachers there are 409 who are not coUege graduates and 
281 who have had no special pedagogic training; 18.7 per cent of the 
teachers are new, 13.1 per cent of these new teachers are inexpe- 
rienced, etc. 

For the entire association we find that 3,661, or 26.2 per cent, of 
the 14,042 teachers reported are new to the school systems in which 
they are teaching. The percentage of new teachers is by no means 
uniform from State to State, for we notice that it varies from 18.7 
per cent in Illinois to 47.2 per cent (very nearly one-half of the 
teachers) in Oklahoma. It is an interesting fact that in the older 
and more densely populated States — Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and 
Michigan — where the school organization is more firmly estabhshed, 
there is less changing of teachers than in the newer States — Oklahoma, 
South Dakota, and North Dakota. In this connection it must be 
remembered that the schools of the North Central Association are 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



57 



selected schools and that the conditions among the public schools as 
a whole must be considerably worse than we find them here. 

If these new teachers were all experienced it would not be so bad, 
but we find this not to be the case, for 23.3 per cent of the new teach- 
ers of the association are without experience. This also varies among 
the States from 13.1 per cent of new teachers who are inexperienced 
in Illinois to 34.9 per cent of such teachers in Michigan. It is to be 
noted that Illinois has not only the smallest percentage of new teach- 
ers, but of the new teachers she has the smallest percentage who are 
inexperienced. 

In figure 9 the proportion of inexperienced teachers to the new 
teachers, of the inexperienced teachers to the total number of teach- 
ers, and of the new teachers to the total number of teachers is repre- 
sented graphically. The large square representing all of the teachers 
of the association includes the smaller square representing the new 
teachers, which in turn includes a stiU smaller square which represents 
the inexperienced teachers. 

According to the standards of the association — 

The minimum scholastic attainment of all secondary school teachers of academic 
subjects shall be equivalent to graduation from a college belonging to the North Cen- 
tral Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. It is strongly advised that this 
attainment include, or be supplemented by, special study of the content and the 
pedagogy of the subject taught. 

The table shows that the association as a whole comes nearer to 
conforming to the advisory portion of the standard than to the re- 
quirement, since but 7.2 per cent of the teachers have had no special 
pedagogic preparation, while 16.2 per cent are not graduates from a 
standard coUege. The percentage of teachers who are not college 
graduates ranges from 11.7 per cent in Iowa to 24 per cent in Missouri, 
and the percentage having no special pedagogic training, from 3.1 
per cent in Oklahoma to 11.2.per cent in lUinois. Of course it may 
weU be that in many cases the noncoUege-graduate teacher is not 
teaching academic subjects, but that does not explain away^ the 
whole 16.2 per cent. 

14,042 teachers. 





3,661 new teachers. 






854 inexperienced. 











Fig. 9. — A comparison of the number of teachers to the number of new teachers 
and Inexperienced teachers. 



58 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XII. 



Under 
2,500. 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


1,037 
648 
199 


2, 115 
805 
243 


1,349 
424 
94 


1,228 
.387 
111 


1,187 

332 

66 


57 
106 
161 


62 
130 
217 


29 
60 
145 


30 
84 
129 


26 
32 

155 


47 
267 


96 
347 


48 
205 


59 
213 


42 

187 


104 
39.6 


158 
38.0 


77 
31.5 


89 
31.5 


68 
27.9 


30.7 


30.2 


22.2 


28.7 


19.9 


8.9 


7.7 


6.8 


7.8 


7.8 


16.3 


16.1 


14.1 


21.7 


9.9 


16.3 


16.6 


15.7 


15. S 


18.1 


4.8 
16.3 


7.4 
16.4 


5.2 
15.2 


7.0 
17.4 


4.9 
15.7 


6.3 
195 


7.5 
229 


5.7 
119 


7.2 

88 


5.7 
73 



15,001- 
50,000 



50,001 
and 



Total number of teachers 

Number of new teachers 

New teachers inexperienced 

New teacliers, no special pedagogic 
preparation 

New teachers, not college graduates . 

Old teachers, not college sraduates. . 

Old teachers, no special pedagogic 
preparation 

Total teachers, not college graduates. 

Total teachers, no special pedagogic 
preparation 

Per cent of new teachers 

Per cent of new teachers inexperi- 
enced , 

Per cent of new teachers with no .spe- 
cial pedagogic preparation 

Per cent of new teachers not college 
graduates 

Per cent of old teachers not college 
graduates 

Per cent of old teachers with no spe- 
cial pedagogic preparation 

Per cent not college graduates i 

Per cent with no special pedagogic 
preparation i ! 

Number of schools 



2,492 
527 



53 
80 
289 

114 
369 

167 
21.2 

16.9 

10.1 

15.2 

14.9 

6.1 
14.8 

6.7 
100 



4,034 

538 

52 

57 

81 

592 



673 

345 
13.3 

9.7 

10.6 

15.1 

16.9 

8.2 
16.7 



' These percentages are based upon the total numbers of teachers. 
Table XIII. 



Total salary of teachers. 



$300-8399... 

400-499... 

500-599... 

600- 699... 

700- 799... 

800- 899... 

900- 999. . . 
1, 000- 1, 099. 
1,100- 1,199. 
1,200- 1,299. 
1,300- 1,399. 
1,400- 1,499. 
1,500- 1,599. 
1,600- 1,699. 
1,700- 1,799. 
1,800- 1,899. 
1,900- 1,999. 
2,000-2,099. 
2,100- 2,199. 
2,200- 2,299. 
2,-300-2,399. 
2,400-2,499. 
2,500-2,599. 
2,600-2,699. 
2,700-2,799. 
2,800- 2,899. 
2,900-2,999. 
3,000-3,099. 
Above 

Total.. 
Median 



Colo- 
rado. 



358 
1,032 



lUi- 
nois. 



19 

16 

27 

77 

166 

191 

194 

135 

124 

126 

93 

95 

80 

64 

57 

45 

19 

30 

16 

22 

20 

12 

6 

15 

5 





3 

1 

1,658 
1,103 



Indi- 
ana. 



3 

1 

3 

31 

127 

147 

135 

85 

42 

34 

17 

1 

6 

9 

3 

4 

1 



2 



641 
906 



Iowa. 



2 
61 
151 
117 

86 
78 
44 
27 
14 
6 



600 
768 



Kan- 
sas. 



6 
7 

10 
120 
181 
136 
79 
50 
12 
19 
9 

4 


1 







2 



636 
797 



Michi- 
igan. 



1 

10 

20 

132 

207 

200 

159 

100 

56 

65 

34 

22 

12 

11 

3 





2 

1 







1 



1,036 
874 



Minne- 
sota. 



1 

5 

38 

82 

141 

93 

67 

45 

40 

53 

53 

50 

44 

62 

21 

3 

1 

1 

1 



801 
960 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XIII — Continued. 



59 



Total salary of teachers. 



Mon- 
tana'. 



Ne- 
braska. 



North 
Dakota. 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



South 
Dakota. 



Wis- 
consin. 



Total. 



S300-S399.., 
400- 499.. 
500- 599... 
600- 699.. 
700- 799... 
800- 899.., 
900-999.. 

1,000- 1,099. 

1,100-1,199. 

.1,200- 1,299. 

1,300- 1,399. 

1,400- 1,499. 

1,500- 1,599. 

1,600- 1,699. 

1,700- 1,799. 

1,800- 1,899. 

1,900- 1,999. 

2,000- 2,099. 

2,100- 2,199. 

2,200- 2,299. 

2,300-2,399. 

2,400-2,499. 

2,500- 2,599. 

2,600- 2,699. 

2,700-2,799. 

2,800- 2,899. 

2,900- 2,999. 

3,000-3,099. 

Above 



10 

16 

65 

135 

204 

144 

151 

143 

83 

93 

96 

75 

95 

44 

24 

39 

22 

12 

4 

6 

7 

2 

2 



2 

1 

35 

132 

202 

173 

71 

85 

34 

36 

35 

3 

9 

2 

8 

7 

1 



Total. 
Median 



169 
1,238 



324 

752 



232 
853 



1,472 
1,008 



172 
797 



146 

868 



842 
828 



51 

93 

381 

1,110 

1,609 

1,388 

1,181 

869 

569 

593 

442 

334 

324 

234 

134 

. 119 

56 

69 

46 

28 

27 

15 

10 

17 

5 

2 



4 

1 



,711 
919 



Total salary of teachers. 


Under 
2,500. 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


$300- 399 


11 

29 

139 

329 

269 

139 

78 

38 

27 

23 

12 

22 

9 

4 

4 

3 



1 



1 


16 
23 
120 

357 

428 

271 

126 

92 

41 

49 

39 

9 

8 

1 

2 

4 



3 

1 

















1 

1 


8 

20 

67 

153 

308 

190 

119 

80 

40 

39 

9 

13 

13 

5 

3 

4 

1 


7 

4 

15 

96 

207 

205 

143 

84 

55 

44 

19 

14 

8 

5 

1 

1 



1 


1 

6 

18 

87 

185 

168 

185 

120 

69 

47 

22 

22 

13 

3 

3 





2 

2 


4 

6 

13 

66 

182 

343 

393 

242 

138 

149 

93 

48 

50 

21 

13 

10 

1 

1 

2 

2 





1 





1 


4 

5 

9 

22 

30 

72 

137 

213 

199 

242 

248 

206 

223 

195 

108 

97 

54 

61 

41 

25 

27 

15 

9 

17 

5 

1 



3 


51 


400- 499 


93 


500- 599 


381 


600- 699 


1,110 


700- 799 


1,609 


800- 899 


1,388 


900- 999 


1,181 


t,000- 1,099 


869 


MOO- 1,199 


569 


J, 200- 1,299 


593 


J,300- 1,399 


442 


J,400- 1,499 


334 


1,500- 1,599 


324 


1,600- 1,699 


234 


1,700- 1,799 


134 


1,800- 1,899 


119 


1,900-1,999 


56 


2,000- 2,099 

2,100- 2,199 


69 
46 


2,200- 2,299 






28 


2,300- 2 399 








27 


2,400- 2 499 










15 


2,500- 2,599 










10 


2,600- 2,699 










17 


2,700- 2,799 










5 


2,800- 2,899 










2 


2,900- 2,999 













3,000- 3,099 












4 


Above... 












1 


















Total 


1,138 
723 


1,592 
765 


1,072 
793 


909 
861 


953 
906 


1,779 
970 


2,268 
1,381 


9,711 


Median 


919 







The difference between the new teachers and the old teachers in 
this matter of college graduation and pedagogic training does not 
seem to be consistently in favor of either one group or the other. 
In some States the new teachers seem to exhibit better preparation 



60 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

than the old teachers, while in about as many States the reverse is 
true. So the evidence here does not seem to point toward an im- 
provement of the teaching staff. Of course it must be kept in mind 
that only 23.3 per cent of these new teachers are inexperienced and 
that a great many of the others are simply new to the schools in 
which they are teaching and not new to the schools of the asso- 
ciation. 

Table XII, based upon population, is in its organization identical 
in form with the previous tables, and consequently is read in the 
same way. 

That there is less changing of teachers from year to year in the 
large cities than in the small cities is very clearly set forth by the 
table, for the percentage of new teachers decreases from 39.6 per cent 
in the cities with population of 2,500 and under to 13.3 per cent in 
cities of over 50,000 population, and it should be noticed that the 
decrease is especially pronounced as we proceed from the cities with 
a population of 10,000 to the still larger cities. This comparative 
stability in the teaching force of the large cities is doubtless due to 
the fact that salaries are higher and the positions consequently more 
desirable. 

In regard to the percentage of the new teachers who are inex- 
perienced, we find the evidence still favoring the large cities. Again, 
with the exception of the percentage for cities with populations be- 
tween 7,500 and 10,000, there is a more or less steady decrease from 
30.7 per cent in the group of smallest cities to 9.7 per cent in the 
largest cities. 

In figure 10 an attempt is made to bring out the relation between 
population, on the one hand, and the percentage of new teachers 
and the percentage of the new teachers who are inexperienced, on 
the other. The entire bar represents the percentage of new teachers 
and the first section of the bar, the percentage of the new teachers 
who are inexperienced. The graph brings out very clearly the fact 
that the large cities are able in a large measure to select and to 
hold their teachers. 

From Table XII it would seem that there is little or no relation 
between population and the percentage of college graduates among 
the teachers or between population and the percentage of teachers 
with special pedagogic preparation. 



The efficiency of a school system depends very largely on the 
character of its teachers, and the character of the teacherg is deter- 
mined to a great extent by the salaries which that system is able to 
offer. That school which is able to pay the largest salaries to its 
teachers will, other things being equal, have the best instructorial 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 61 

staff. Furthermore, the teaching profession itself will be able to 
compete with the other professions in securing the best talent of 
the country only when the compensation for teaching, other things 
being equal, at least approach those of the other professions. Of 
course, the "other things" are very seldom equal. 

Salaries of teachers. — Concerning salary of teachers we have re- 
ports involving 9,711 teachers. Table XIII is based upon these 
reports. In this table the material has been analyzed on the basis 
of both State and population. Consequently it has two parts. It 

9.7;^ 13.3i< 



16.9^ . 21.2' 



19.9, '^ 27.9?^ 



28.7fo 31.5^ 



22.2 !« 31.5^ 



30.ar.' 38.0^ 



307^ 39.6^ 

. I I 

Fig. 10. — Showing the percentage of new teachers and the percentage of new teachers who are mexperienced 
m cities having a population, respectively (reading from the top), of over 50,000, 15,001-50,000, 10,001- 
15,000, 7,501-10,000, 5,001-7,500, 2,501-5,000, imder 2,500. The entire bar represents the percentage of the 
total number of teachers who are new to the school systems in which they are teaching. The first 
section of the bar represents the percentage of the new teachers who are inexperienced. For instance, 
in the group of cities having population of 2,500 or less, 39.6 per cent of the total number of teachers 
are new teachers, and 30.7 per cent of these new teachers are inexperienced. 

should be read as follows: Of the 358 teachers reported from Colo- 
rado, 3 were receiving a salary somewhere between $500 and S599, 
inclusive, 23 between S600 and S699, ate, and the median salary 
for Colorado is SI, 032. 

It is very interesting to note the variation in salary from State to 
State. The median salary varies from $752 in Nebraska to $1,238 
in Montana. There are four States geographically contiguous in 
which the median falls below $800, Nebraska, Iowa, Kansas, and 
Oklahoma, and five States in which the median is above $1,000, 



62 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AN^D HIGH SCHOOLS. 



Montana, Missouri, Illinois, Colorado, and Ohio. It should be ob- 
served that in every State the median salary is much nearer to the 
smallest salary paid than it is to the largest. 

There is a direct correlation between the size of city and the size 
of salary paid, as i§ made clear in the table. The median increases 
from $723 for schools located in cities under 2,500 to $1,381 for 
those in cities of over 50,000 population, but it should be noted 
that this increase is not equally distributed among the several 
groups of cities. The median for the group of cities second largest 
in size is only $970, while the median for the largest cities is $1,381. 
Thus it seems that the cities having populations of over 50,000 are 
in a class by themselves. 

The relation between the size of city and the salary of teachers 
may be better understood by reference to figure 11, in which four 
curves have been drawn representing the salaries of teachers for 
four groups of cities: Those with population of less than 2,500, 
those -with population between 7,501 and 10,000, those between 
15,001 and 50,000, and those over 50,000. The following points are 
made clear: First, the range of salaries increases with the size of 
city; second, the mode, or most frequent salary, becomes less pro- 
nounced as the size of city increases; and, third, both of these fea- 
tures are so accentuated in the cities having populations of over 
50,000 that this group of cities stands out distinctly from the other 
groups. 

Table XIV. 



Total salaiy of principals. 



Colo- 
rado. 



Illinois. 



Indi- 
ana. 



Iowa. 



Kan- 
sas. 



Michi- 
gan. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Mis- 
souri. 



$500-$599. 

600- 699. 

700- 799. 

800- 899. 

900- 999. 
1,000-1,099 
1,100-1 
1,200-1 
1,300-1 
1,400-1 
1, 500-1 
1,600-1 
1, 700-1 
1,800-1 
1,900-1 
2,000-2 
2, 100-2: 
2,200-2 
2,300-2 
2, 400-2 
2, 500-2 
2,600-2 
2,700-2 
2,800-2 
2,900-2 
3,000-3 



199. 
299. 
399. 
499. 
599. 
699. 
799. 
899. 
999. 
099. 
199. 
299. 
399. 
499. 
599. 
699. 
799. 
899. 
999. 
099. 



Above $3,100 

Total.. 
Median 



27 
1,550 



108 
1,825 



36 
1,400 



53 
1,142 



63 
1,283 



84 
1,325 



52 
1,183 



39 
1,263 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



63 



Total salary of teachers. 


i 
7. 


g 

•^ 


1 


i 


i 


00 


1 




§ 




CO 


§ 

-^ 


1 


rt 


Per cent of teachers under 2, 500 

7,501-10,000 

15,001-50,000 

Above 50,000 


1.0 
.8 
.3 
.2 


1.7 
.4 
.4 
.2 


12.3 
1.7 

.7 
.4 


29.3 
10.6 
3.7 
1.0 


23.8 
22.8 
10.2 
1.3 


12.1 
22.5 
19.3 
3.2 


6.8 
15.7 
22.0 

6.1 


3.4 
9.2 
13.6 
9.4 


2.4 
6.1 

7.8 
8.8 


2.1 

4.8 
8.4 
10.7 


1.0 
2.1 
5.2 
11.0 


2.0 
1.5 
2.7 
9.1 


0.8 
.9 

2.8 
9.8 


0.4 

.6 

1.2 

8.5 



Total salary of teachers. 


1 
S 


00 




OJ 


CM 




a> 

i 


05 


s 

CM 


CM 


CM 


o> 


Oi 


1 


Per cent of teachers under 2,500 


0.4 
.1 

.7 
4.7 


0.3 

.1 
.6 
4.3 





0.05 

2.4 


0.1 

.1 

.05 
2.6 





0.1 


















7,501-10,000 


















15,001-50,000 .- 


0.1 

1.7 


.1 
1.1 



1.2 




0.7 


0.05 
.4 




0.8 



.2 


.05 
0.05 






Above 50,000 





1 5 









































































































































COMPAKISON OF SALARIES OF TEACHERS IN CITIES WITH: 






















POPULATIOXS UNDER 2,500 
7,501-10,000 
15 001—50,000 






































_ 






























ABOVE 50,000 




















— 




























































— 






















































































































































































r-- 
























































































































1 




















































































































































































1 


























































' 






-- 


















































_ 






























































































































1 








1 — 
























































.^ 










— 
















































I 


' 


"■ 










-- 














































1 




-- 
























































1 




































































... 


























































"~" 










._, 


._. 




































— 














































































-- ' 


— 








_. 


1 — 


































__ 














L. 


1 












— 


























1 


!,«] 


:=; 


b- 


















_J 




L^ 


^d 


^ 


U. 





— 


,^ 




y 


1^ 


!11 


— 


S£i 




-a 




_ 



C5 CS CS Ci Oi O C5 



Oi a oi Oi 



05 O Oi o 



Ci O ^ CI 



<J> Oi Oi a 



C:) Ci Ci o 



O CS o 



C5 C3 as C3 ^ 
■^ U3 CO I^ 



c^c^c^c-*c^c^c^c^c^«^ ^ 



SALAKIE3 



Fig. 11. — Salaries of teachers in different groups of cities. 



64 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Table XIV — Continued. 



Total salary of principals. 



$500-$599. . . . 

600- 699. .. . 

700-799.... 

800- 899. .. . 

900- 999.... 
1,000-1,099... 
1,100-1,199... 
1,200-1,299... 
1,300-1,399... 
1,400-1,499... 
1,500-1,599... 
1,600-1,699... 
1,700-1,799... 
1,800-1,899... 
1,900-1,999... 
2,000-2,099... 
2, 100-2, 199. . . 
2,200-2,299... 
2,300-2,399... 
2,400-2,499... 
2,500-2,599... 
2,600-2,699... 
2,700-2,799... 
2,800-2,899... 
2,900-2,999... 
3,000-3,099... 
Above $3,100. 

Total... 
Median 



Mon- 
tana. 



Ne- 
braska. 



11 
2,050 



40 
1,020 



North 
Dakota, 



27 
1,228 



Ohio. 



127 
1,306 



Okla- 
homa. 



13 
1,375 



South 
Dakota. 



Wis- 
consin. 



16 
1,266 



70 
1,722 



Total salary of principals. 


Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


$500-S 
600- 
700- 
800- 
900- 
1,000-1 


599 








1 




1 

2 
2 
12 
12 

10 
11 
3 

2 
5 
1 
2 

1 
2 


1 




1 








1 


599 


3 

14 

21 

34 

24 

7 

17 

11 

9 

10 

6 

5 

3 

3 



1 





1 

1 





2 


1 
3 
12 
34 
39 
29 
25 
7 
4 
12 
7 
6 
5 
3 
2 

3 


3 
1 
1 
2 

2 


i' 

3 
16 
11 
26 
•14 
6 
3 
4 
6 
2 
2 
5 
1 



8 
1 



1 








4 


799 








17 


599 








34 


399 


3' 

8 
5 
6 
12 
10 
1 
7 
1 
4 
1 
3 

1 

1 
1 




1 


2 



1 

3 
3 
5 
6 
7 
9 
4 
10 
3 
8 
3 
2 
7 
1 
2 



5 


i 

• 
1 
3 
1 
2 
2 

3 
1 
5 

3 
5 


5 


14 
22 


74 


099 


81 


1, 100-1 


199. . . . 


52 


1,200-1 
1, 300-1 


299 


90 


399 


52 


1,400-1 


499 


39 


1,500-1 


599 


56 


1,600-1 


699 


37 


1, 700-1 


799 


29 


1,800-1 


899 


33 


1, 900-1 


999 .. . 


14 


2, 000-2 


099 


26 


2, 100-2 


199 


7 


2, 200-2 


299 


20 


2,300-2 


399 


5 


2, 400-2 


499 


7 


2,500-2 


599 


24 


2, 600-2 


699 


5 


2, 700-2 


799 


4 


2,800-2 


899 


7 


2,900-2 


999 


1 


3,000-3 


099 


19 


Above 

T 
Median 


83,100 


28 


otal 












172 
1,058 


201 
1,140 


110 
1,292 


69 
1,445 


65 
1,587 


81 
2,005 


68 
3,014 


766 




1,358 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XV. 



65 



Total salary of superintendents. 



81,000-$1,099. 

1,100- 1,199. 

1,200- 1,299. 

1,300- 1,399. 

1,400- 1,499. 

1,500- 1,599. 

1,600- 1,699. 

1,700- 1,799. 

1,800- 1,899. 

1,900- 1,999. 

2,000- 2,099. 

2,100- 2,199. 

2,200- 2,299. 

2,300- 2,399. 

2,400- 2,499. 

2,500- 2,599. 

2,600- 2,699. 

2,700- 2,799. 

2,800- 2,899. 

2,900- 2,999. 

3,000- 3,099. 
Above 



Colo- 
rado. 



Total. 
Median 



15 
1,950 



Illinois. 



35 
1,983 



Indi- 
ana. 



11 

1,825 



Iowa. 



23 
1,650 



Kan- 
sas. 



45 
1,694 



Michi- 
gan. 



38 
1,857 



Minne- 
sota. 



35 
1,893 



Mis- 
souri. 



20 
1,550 



Total salary of superintendents. 



Mon- 
tana. 



Ne- 
braska. 



North 
Dakota, 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



South 
Dakota. 



Wis- 
consin 



Total. 



$1,000-81,099. 

1,100- 1,199. 

1,200- 1,299. 

1,300- 1,399. 

1,400- 1,499. 

1,500- 1,599. 

1,600- 1,699. 

1,700- 1,799. 

1,800- 1,899. 

1,900- 1,999. 

2,000- 2,099. 

2,100- 2,199. 

2,200- 2,299. 

2,300- 2,399. 

2,400- 2,499. 

2,500- 2,599. 

2,600- 2,699. 

2,700- 2,799. 

2,800- 2,899. 

2,900- 2,999. 

3,000- 3,099. 
Above 



Total. 
Median 



5 
2,250 



23 
1,663 



1 

3 

4 

26 

26 

32 

40 

26 

50 

22 

25 

15 

17 

3 

4 

8 

4 

6 

4 

1 

6 

14 



19 

1,775 



40 
1,725 



4 
2,700 



7 
1.750 



17 
1,863 



337 
1,821 



80790° 



66 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



Table XV —Continued. 



Total salary of superintendents. 



Under 
2,500. 



2,501- 
5,000 



5,001- 
7,500 



7,501- 
10,000 



10,001- 
15,000 



15,001- 
50,000 



50,001- 
and 
over. 



Total. 



$1,000-$1,099. 

1,100- 1,199. 

1,200- 1,299. 

1,300- 1,399. 

1,400- 1,499. 

1,500- 1,599. 

1,600- 1,699. 

1,700- 1,799. 

1,800- 1,899. 

1,900- 1,999. 

2,000- 2,099. 

2,100- 2,199. 

2,200- 2,299. 

2,300- 2,399. 

2,400- 2,499. 

2,500- 2,599. 

2,600- 2,699. 

2,700- 2,799. 

2,800- 2,899. 

2,900- 2,999. 

3,000- 3,099. 
Above 



Total. 
Median 



117 
1,628 



1 

2 

1 

8 

7 

12 

11 

16 

15 

6 

12 

3 

2 









1 





2 

1 

100 
1,750 



43 
1,950 



26 
2,000 



19 
2,290 



26 
2,700 



1 

3 

4 

26 

26 

32 

40 

26 

50 

22 

25 

15 

17 

3 

4 

8 

4 

6 

4 

1 



2,700 



337 
1,821 



Salaries of principals. — Table XIV, based upon reports concern- 
ing the salaries of 766 principals, is similar in form and organization 
to the immediately preceding table and is consequently read in the 
same way. It therefore needs no further explanation. 

Here again we find Nebraska footing the list with a median salary 
for principals of only $1,020 and Montana leading with a median 
salary of $2,050, more than twice that of Nebraska. There are 
three States, Nebraska, Iowa, and Minnesota, with medians of less 
than $1,200, and four, Montana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Colorado, 
with medians of more than $1,500. 

The size of city has the same effect on the salaries of principals as 
upon salaries of teachers, except that in the former case it is more 
pronounced. We see the median increasing from $1,058 in the 
smallest cities to $3,014 in the largest. Here, too, the line is sharply 
drawn between the cities of over 50,000 population and all the other 
groups. 

Salaries of superintendents. — The value of Table XV, which has 
to do with the salaries of superintendents, is somewhat less than 
that of Tables XIII and XIV because it represents only 337 cases. 
The reports from the larger cities were very few, consequently the 
part of the table referring to these cities is without value. 

The table will be understood if read in the same way as the two 
preceding tables. 

Among the States the median varies from $1,550 for Missouri to 
$2,700 for Oklahoma, but owing to the poor representation of these 
two States these figures should not be taken too seriously. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



67 



The positive correlation between salaries and size of cities con- 
tinues, although for cities of over 50,000 inhabitants the median 
salary for superintendents is $2,700, whereas we discovered the me- 
dian salary for principals to be $3,014. for the same group of cities. 
That this is due to the fact that only six cases are reported is borne 
out by the findings of Jessup and Coffman in their investigation of 
last year. 

Table XVI. 





Colo- 
rado. 


nii- 

nois. 


Indi- 
ana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Min- 
nesota. 


Mis- 
souri. 




SI, 032 
1,550 
1,950 


$1, 103 
1,825 
1,983 


$906 
1,400 
1,825 


$768 
1,142 
1,650 


$797 
1,283 
1,694 


$874 
1,325 
1,857 


$960 
1,183 
1,893 


$1, 120 




1 26X 


Median salary for superintendents 


1,550 




Mon- 
tana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Total. 




$1,238 
2,050 
2,250 


$752 
1,020 
1,663 


$853 
1,228 
1,775 


$1,008 
1,306 
1,725 


$797 
1,375 
2,700 


$868 
1,266 
1,750 


$828 
1,722 
1,863 


$919 


Median salary for principals 

Median salary for superintendents 


1,35S 
1,821 




Under 
2,500. 


2,501- 
5,000. 


5,001- 
7,500. 


7,501- 
10,000. 


10,001- 
15,000. 


15,001- 
50,000. 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


Median salary for teachers 


$723 
1,058 
1,628 


$765 
1,140 
1,750 


$793 
1,292 
1,950 


$861 
1,445 
2,000 


$906 
1,587 
2,290 


$970 
2,005 
2,700 


$1,381 
3,014 
2,700 


$919 

i,:i5S 


Median salarj' for superintendents 


1,821 



Comparison of salaries of teachers, principals, and superintendents. — 
In figm*e 12 we have a comparison of the salaries of teachers, prin- 
cipals, and superintendents. The height of any particular curve at 
any point represents the per cent of cases, or frequency, and the 
distance along the horizontal line, the salary. 

A number of interesting points are brought out in this figui'e 
besides the somewhat general comparison which is seen at a glance. 
The cm'ves representing the teachers and the principals, especially 
the one representing the teachers, are skewed toward the lower end 
of the scale. This is occasioned by the fact that, while a few in- 
dividuals in each case may expect high salaries, the great majority 
must be content to receive rather mediocre salaries, much nearer 
the lower than the upper extreme. Another fact that comes out is 
that there is greater uniformity in the salaries of teachers than in 
the salaries of either the principals or the superintendents. Still 
another fact that should receive attention is indicated by the irregu- 
larity of the principals' and superintendents' curves. Let us examine 
the principals' curve, since it shows the irregularity most markedly. 
It will be observed that the frequent salaries are $1,000, $1,200, 
$1,500, $1,800, $2,000, $2,200, $2,500, $2,800, and $3,000. This 



68 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS, 



HAOeV 
6608 

666g 

6682 

iZ 

669S 

6638 

mfz 

668S 

mz 



o 2 d 

z. <^ ^ 

^ ^ ^ 

o a o 






660S 



6661 



6681 



en 
6611 ^ 

6G9I » 



66SI 
66fl 
6681 
66SI 
66TT 
6601 
666 
668 

mz 

669 
663 
66? 



sx.aas aar 'sivdiONiHd 'saanoyax ko XKfio aad 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 69 

must indicate that the salaries of principals and superintendents are 
not determined entirely by the merit of the individuals, or the curve 
would show no such preference for certain salaries, for merit surely 
does not yarj in any such fashion. It would seem, therefore, that 
in many cases a principal or superintendent is given a salary of 
$2,500 not because he merits it, but because $2,500 is a rather con- 
venient number, easily handled, familiar to everyone, and because 
it occupies a certain place in our number series. On the other hand, 
$1,900, $2,100, $2,300, $2,700, $2,900, and others seem to be avoided 
on their own account rather than on the merits or demerits of the 
individual principals and superintendents. 

Table XVI is simply a convenient table for comparing the medians 
in Tables XIII, XIV, and XV, and needs no further explanation. 

The bar diagrams in figure 13 were devised for comparing the 
median salaries of teachers, principals, and superintendents within 
each group of cities as well as from group to group. In each bar the 
fu'st section represents the median salary of teachers for the par- 
ticular group of cities concerned, the first and second sections 
the median salary of principals, and the first, second, and third sec- 
tions the median salary of superintendents. The bar representing 
the cities of over 50,000 inhabitants has but two sections, because 
the superintendents have only six cases in this group, not enough to 
warrant any conclusions. 

An interesting as weU as significant fact that is made very clear 
is that the salaries of principals increase with the increase in the 
size of cities much more rapidly than do the salaries of teachers; and 
the salaries of superintendents increase in about the same fashion as 
the salaries of principals. These facts would indicate that the need 
for efiicient administrators and supervisors becomes increasingly 
apparent as the city increases in size, while there is no corresponding 
change in the demands on classroom teachers. Indeed, in the smaller 
schools, as wiU be brought out later, the principal is little more than 
an instructor and the superintendent frequently teaches a number of 
classes. Thus the character of work demanded of the principal and 
the superintendent changes and becomes of more vital importance to 
the school as the school becomes larger, while the work of the teacher 
changes but comparatively little. 



70 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



•OS 

a a 



a d 

Is 



STUDY OP COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XVII. 



71 





Illinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Missouri. 


Number of periods taught by 
superintendent: 



108 
15 
14 
3 

2 

1 
1 


48 
7 
7 
1 


29 
19 
15 

1 


40 
6 

16 
9 
2 
1 


63 
16 
10 

7 
2 

1 


46 
14 
7 
3 


32 


1 


7 


2 


4 


3 


8 


4 




5 










6 
























Total 


144 


63 


64 


74 


99 


70 


51 






Per cent of superintendents 
teaching- 
No period 


75.0 
10.4 
9.7 
2.1 

\'. 

.7 


76.2 

11.1 

11.1 

1.6 


45.3 

29.7 

23.4 

1.6 


54.1 
8.1 
21.6 
12.2 
2.7 
1.3 


63.6 

16.2 

10.1 

7.1 

2.0 

1.0 


65.7 
20.0 
10.0 
4.3 


62.7 




13.8 


2 periods 


7.8 




15.7 








































Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 









Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Total. 


Number of periods taught by- 
superintendent: 


19 
11 
10 
8 
2 


9 

7 
6 
4 
2 


96 
31 

18 
5 
2 


1 


14 
2 

1 

1 


8 
2 
5 
2 

1 


61 

18 

9 

1 


573 


1 


155 


2 


122 


3 


52 


4 


14 


5 




3 


6 












2 
















Total 


50 


28 


153 


18 


18 


89 


921 






Per cent of superintendents 
teaching-;- 


38.0 
22.0 
20.0 
16.0 
4.0 


32.1 
25.0 
21.4 
14.3 
7.2 


62.8 

20.2 

11.7 

3.3 

1.3 



.7 


77.7 
11.1 

5.6 


5.6 


44.5 
11.1 
27.7 
11.1 
5.6 


68.5 

20.2 

10.1 

1.2 


62.3 


1 period 


16.8 


2 periods 


13.3 


Speriods 


5.6 
1.5 


5 periods 




.3 


6 periods 












.2 
















Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 







Population. 


Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,C00 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


Number of periods taught by superin- 
tendent: 



44 
38 
61 
37 
12 
2 


89 

72 

52 

12 

2 

1 

1 


87 

26 

4 

3 


76 
10 
4 


68 
5 
1 


101 
2 


108 
2 




1 


573 


1 


155 


2 


122 


3 


52 


4 








14 


5 










3 


6 










2 
















Total 


194 


229 


120 


90 


74 


103 


111 


921 






Per cent of superintendents teaching- 
No period 


22.7 
19.6 
31.4 
19.1 
6.2 
1.0 


38.9 

31.4 

22.8 

5.2 

.9 

.4 

.4 


72.5 

21.7 

3.3 

2.5 


84.4 
11.1 
4.5 


91.9 
6.7 
1.4 


98.1 
1.9 


97.3 
1.8 
.0 
.0 
.0 

.9 


62.3 


1 period 


16.8 


2 periods 


13.3 


3 periods 


5.6 


4 periods 








1.5 


5 periods 










.3 


6 periods 










.2 




100.0 












Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 







72 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XVII— Continued. 



Em-ollnient. 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 and 
over. 


Total. 


Number of periods taught by 
superintendent: 



46 
17 
17 
10 
5 
1 
1 


140 
93 

87 

36 

9 

1 
1 


121 

35 

13 

6 



1 


142 
9 
5 


78 


46 

1 


573 


1 


155 


2 




122 


3.. 






52 


4 








14 


5 








3 


6 








2 














Total 


97 


367 


176 


156 


78 


47 


921 






Per cent of superintendents 
teaching — 
No period 


47.5 
17.5 
17.5 
10.3 
5.2 
1.0 
1.0 


38.2 

25.2 

,23.7 

9.8 

2.5 

.3 

.3 


68.7 

19.9 

7.4 

3.4 

.0 

.6 


91.0 
5.S 
3.2 


100.0 


97.9 
2.1 


62.3 


1 period 


16.8 


2 periods 




13.3 








5.6 










1.5 










.3 


6 periods ... 








.2 














Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 







DISTRIBUTION OF WORK. 

Number of feriods taught hy superintendent. — In Table XVII the 
attempt has been made to show the extent to which the superintend- 
ent is a teacher in the north central high schools. The table is based 
upon State, population, and enrollment and is composed of two parts, 
the one giving the actual number of cases and the other the per- 
centages. It is to be read as follows: In Illinois 108 of the super- 
intendents reported, or 75 per cent, do no teaching; 15, or 10.4 per 
cent, teach one period per day each, etc. 

This table shows that 62.3 per cent, considerably over half, of the 
superintendents in the entire association do no teaching whatsoever, 
while only .2 per cent teach six periods daily. However, there is 
much variation from State to State in this particular. In North 
Dakota and Nebraska a larger percentage of the superintendents 
teach than in any of the other States; only 32.1 per cent in the for- 
mer and 38 per cent in the latter are entirely free from teaching. On 
the other hand, in Oklahoma, Indiana, and Illinois we find 77.7 per 
cent, 76.2 per cent, and 75 per cent, respectively, of the superintend- 
ents doing no teaching. This variation is due at least in a measure 
to the variation in the size of the schools. 

The size of the city in which a school is located and the enrollment 
of the school both seem to be factors in determining the amount of 
teaching done by a superintendent. In cities with populations of 
15,000 or more and in schools of 300 enrollment and above the super- 
intendent does practically no teaching. It is in the smaller cities 
and schools that this demand is made upon his time. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



73 



The important question to be considered in this connection is, how 
much supervision is needed. Evidently the time which a superin- 
tendent gives to teaching can not be used for supervision. In the 
smaller schools, since the supervisory aspect of the school is, while 
probably not less important, less extensive, a portion of the super- 
intendent's time can be given over to teaching without lowering the 
efficiency of the school. However, it is doubtless true that in many 
cases supervision is sacrificed to teaching, owing to the lack of an 
adequate teaching force. 

Number of periods taught hij 'principal. — Table XVIII needs no 
explanation, since its form is exactly like that of Table XVII. 

It is seen that the principal does a great deal more teaching than 
the superintendent, as is brought out by the fact that onl}^ 18.7 per 
cent of the prmcipals do no teacliing, as opposed to 62.3 per cent of 
the superintendents. As regards differences from State to State and 
effects of population and enrollment, the same points are brought out 
that were shown in the case of superintendents; so they need not be 
repeated here. Suffice it to say that the effect of enrollment is some- 
what more pronounced than the effect of population, as evinced by 
the fact that the percentage of principals which teach in the larger 
schools is somewhat less than the percentage which teach in the 
larger cities. This shows that where the principal is left free to 
organize the school the size of the school regularly increases. The 
tables therefore present a strong argument for increase in super- 
vision. 

Table XVIII. 



Number of periods taught by 
principal : 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Total 

Per cent of principals teaching: 
No periods 

1 period 

2 periods 

3 periods 

4 periods 

5 periods 

6 periods 

Total 



Illinois. 


Indiana. 


33 


8 


26 


8 


20 


14 


17 


10 


19 


12 


21 

s 


11 



Iowa. 



22.9 
18.1 
13.9 
11.8 
13.2 
14.6 
5.5 



100.0 



63 



12.7 
12.7 
22.2 
15.8 
19.1 
17.5 



100.0 



64 



17.2 
7.8 
17.2 
20.3 
31.2 
6.3 



100.0 



Kansas. 



74 



9.5 
2.7 
18.9 
13.5 
24.3 
27.0 
4.1 



100.0 



Michigan. 



10.1 
10.1 
13.1 
24.2 
17.2 
20.2 
5.1 



100.0 



Minne- 
sota. 



14.3 
2.8 
12.8 
20.0 
27.2 
22.9 



Missouri. 



27.4 
9.9 
5.9 
7.8 
23.5 
15.7 



74 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XVIII— Continued. 





Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


Number of periods taught by- 
principal: 



5 
6 
4 
5 
17 
11 
2 


1 

3 
2 
16 
5 
1 


42 
9 
17 
12 
37 
24 
12 


3 

2 
5 
4 
3 
1 


1 

5 
5 
4 
2 
1 


27 

17 

31 

7 

5 

2 


172 


1 


90 


2 


146 


3 


128 


4 


200 


5 


147 


6 


38 








Total 


50 


28 


153 


18 


18 


89 


921 






Per cent of principals teaching: 


10.0 
12.0 

8.0 
10.0 
34.0 
22.0 

4.0 


3.6 

.0 

10.8 

7.2 
57.0 
17.8 

3.6 


27.4 
5.9 
11.1 

7.8 
24.2 
15.8 

7.8 


16.6 
.0 
11.2 
27.7 
22.2 
16.7 
5.6 


5.6 
.0 
27.7 
27.7 
22.2 
11.2 

5.6 


30.3 
19.0 
34.9 
7.9 
5.6 
2.3 


18.7 


1 period 


9.8 


2 periods 


15.8 


3 periods 


13.9 




21.7 




16.0 




4.1 








Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 









Under 
2,500. 


2,501- 
5,000. 


5,001- 
7,500. 


7,501- 
10,000. 


10,001- 
15,000. 


15,001- 
50,000. 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


Number of periods taught by princi- 
pal: 



10 
2 
18 
13 
67 
67 
17 


13 
11 
30 
41 
63 
55 
16 


15 
9 
17 
27 
37 
13 
2 


12 
9 
21 
21 
20 
7 


9 

12 

28 

15 

7 

2 

1 


41 
27 
26 
6 
2 

1 


72 
20 
6 
5 
4 
3 
1 


172 


1 


90 


2 


146 


3 


128 


4 


200 


5 


147 


6 


38 






Total 


194 


229 


120 


90 


74 


103 


111 


921 






Per cent of priacipals teachrag: 

No periods 


5.2 
1.0 
9.3 
6.7 
34.5 
34.5 
8.8 


5.7 
4.8 
13.1 
17.9 
27.5 
24.0 
7.0 


12.5 
7.5 
14.2 
22.5 
30.8 
10.8 
1.7 


13.4 
10.0 
23.3 
23.3 
22.2 
7.8 


12.1 
16.2 
37.8 
20.3 
9.5 
2.7 
1.4 


39.8 

26.2 

25.2 

5.8 

2.0 

.0 

1.0 


64.9 
18.0 
5.4 
4.5 
3.6 
2.7 
.9 


18.7 


1 period 


9.8 


2 periods 


15.8 


3 periods 


13.9 


4 periods 


21.7 


5 periods 


16.0 


6 periods 


4.1 






Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 









1-100. 


101-200. 


201-300. 


301-500. 


501-1,000. 


1,001 and 
over. 


Total. 


Number of periods taught by 
principal: 



16 
6 
7 
9 
. 25 

27 
7 


28 
16 
36 
54 
116 
90 
27 


12 

8 
40 
44 
45 
24 

3 


29 
34 
53 
20 
14 
5 
1 


47 
20 
10 

1 


40 
6 



1 


172 


1 


90 


2 


146 


3 


128 


4 


200 


5 




147 


6 




38 










Total 


97 


367 


176 


156 


78 


47 


921 






Per cent of principals teaching: 
No periods 


16.5 
6.2 
7.2 
9.3 
25.8 
27.8 
7.2 


7.6 
4.4 
9.8 
14.7 
31.6 
24.5 
7.4 


6.8 
4.6 
22.7 
25.0 
25.6 
13.6 
1.7 


18.5 
21.8 
34.0 
12.8 
9.0 
3.2 
.7 


60.3 

25.6 

12.8 

1.3 


85.1 
12.8 

yO 

\0 

.0 

2.1 


18.7 


1 period 


9.8 


2 periods 


15.8 


3 periods 


13.9 


4 periods 


21.7 






16.0 


6 periods 




4.1 










Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100 







STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XIX. 



75 





Illinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Missouri. 


Number of teachers teaching— 


102 
98 
131 
343 
895 
628 
149 


46 

72 

48 

109 

355 

414 

7 


34 
41 
51 
124 
443 
163 
2 


45 
40 
36 
66 
291 
388 
50 


63 
65 
111 
148 
662 
322 
17 


33 
38 
45 
126 
399 
476 
41 


61 


2 periods 


36 


3 periods 


38 


4 periods 


82 




425 


6 periods 


264 


7 periods 


35 






Total 


2,346 
152 

4.4 
4.2 
5.6 
14.6 
38.1 
26.8 
6.3 


1,051 
62 

4.4 

6.9 

4.6 

10.4 

33.7 

39.3 

.7 


858 
64 

4.0 

4.8 

5.9 

14.5 

51.6 

19.0 

.2 


916 
74 

4.9 
4.4 
3.9 
7.2 
31.8 
42.3 
5.5 


1,388 
96 

4.6 
4.7 
8.0 
10.7 
47.6 
23.2 
1.2 


1,158 
70 

2.9 
3.3 
3.9 
10.9 
34.4 
41.0 
3.6 


941 




50 


Per cent teaching— 

1 period 


6.5 




3.8 


3 periods 


4.0 


4 periods ... 


8.7 


5 periods 


45.2 


6 periods 


28.1 




3.7 







Nebraska. 



North 
Dakota. 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



South 
Dakota. 



Wiscon- 
sin. 



Total. 



Number of teachers teaching 

1 period 

2 periods 

3 periods 

4 periods 

5 periods 

6 periods 

7 periods 

Total 

Number of schools 

Per cent teaching — 

1 period 

2 periods 

3 periods 

4 periods 

5 periods 

6 periods 

7 periods 



36 
33 
37 
64 
164 
144 




82 

77 

221 

781 

782 

49 



62 

70 

42 

202 

534 

307 

14 



478 
50 

7.5 

6.9 

7.7 

13.4 

34.4 

30.1 

.0 



255 
27 

9.4 

9.4 

5.1 

18.0 

55.3 

22.8 

.0 



2,078 
148 

4.1 
3.9 
3.7 
10.8 
37.5 
37.6 
2.4 



189 
16 

2.1 

3.2 

4.3 

15.9 

37.5 

37.0 

.0 



183 
18 

4.4 
6.0 
7.7 
17.0 
43.1 
28.1 
.0 



1,231 

87 

5.1 
5.7 
3.5 
16.4 
43.2 
24.9 
1.2 



604 

616 

651 

1,592 

5,189 

4,056 

364 



13, 072 
914 

4.6 
4.8 
5.0 
12.2 
39.6 
31.0 
2.8 



0-100 



101-200 



201-300 



301-500 



501-1,000 



1,001 and 
over. 



Total. 



Number of teachers teaching- 

1 period 

2 periods 

3 periods 

4 periods 

5 periods 

6 periods 

7 periods 

Total 

Number of schools 

Per cent teaching — 

1 period 

2 periods 

3 periods 

4 periods 

5 periods 

6 periods 

7 periods 



110 

97 

65 

132 

203 

125 

6 



244 
2l'9 
195 
431 
978 
1,033 
53 



85 

93 

98 

207 

694 

762 

61 



101 
103 
127 
304 
1,036 
927 
59 



42 
64 
113 
287 
1,074 
495 
56 



22 
40 
53 
231 
1,204 
714 
129 



738 
94 

14.9 
13.2 
8.8 
17.9 
27.5 
16.9 



3,153 
360 

7.8 

7.0 

6.2 

13.7 

30.9 

32.7 

1.7 



2,000 
175 

4.3 

4.7 

4.8 

10.4 

34.6 

38.1 

3.1 



2,657 
156 

3.8 
.3.9 
4.8 
11.4 
39.0 
34.9 



2,131 
75 

2.0 
3.0 
5.3 
13.5 
50.4 
23.2 
2.6 



2,393 
54 

0.9 

1.7 
2.2 
9.7 
50.3 
29.8 
5.4 



604 

616 

651 

1,592 

5,189 

4,056 

364 



13, 072 
914 

4.6 

4.8 
5.0 
12.2 
39.6 
31.0 
2.8 



Number of periods taught hy teachers. — The eflSciency of the in- 
struction is likely to be greatly lessened if the teacher is required to 
teach an excessive number of periods. The recognition of this fact 



76 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

by the association is shown by the following statement found among 
its standards : 

The number of daily periods of classroom instniction given by any teacher Bhould 
not exceed five, each to extend over at least 40 minutes in the clear. The board of 
inspectors will reject all schools having more than six recitation periods per day for 
any teacher. 

However, that the board of inspectors does not always reject 
schools that do not meet this requirement will be seen from the 
reports. 

Table XIX is based upon the reports from 914 schools concerning 
the number of periods per day taught by their teachers. The 
table brings out the differences from State to State in this particular 
and shows their relation to enrollment. From the table we read that 
there are 2,346 teachers reported from 152 schools in Illinois, and 
that 102, or 4.4 per cent, of these teachers teach but one period daily; 
98, or 4.2 per cent, two periods, etc. 

It will be sufficient to call attention to a few of the more important 
facts brought out by the table. First and foremost it should be 
noticed that 2.8 per cent of the teachers reported teach seven periods 
daily, which is contrary to the standards of the association. Among 
the States the worst offender in this respect is Illinois, with Kansas 
a close second, while no teachers reported from Nebraska, North 
Dakota, Oldahoma, and South Dakota teach seven periods. From 
the standpoint of enrollment the schools having more than 1,000 
students have the largest percentage of teachers (5.4 per cent) 
teaching seven periods. Furthermore, 31 per cent, or nearly one- 
third of all the teachers reported, teach six periods. This is con- 
trary to the advice of the association, as stated above. The worst 
offender among the States in this case is Kansas with 42.3 per cent, 
and the State most nearly approaching the standards of the asso- 
ciation is Iowa with but 19 per cent of her teachers teaching six 
periods. The medium-sized schools rather than the £xtra-large 
schools seem to be the worst offenders here, although they are not 
a great deal worse than the association as a whole. Another inter- 
esting fact is that the number of periods per teacher is more nearly 
standardized in the large schools than in the small schools. In the 
former 50.3 per cent of the teachers teach five periods daily, while 
in the latter the largest percentage teaching any given number of 
periods is 27.5 per cent and each particular number of periods is 
represented by a rather large percentage of teachers except the last. 
The tendency toward standardization becomes more and more 
apparent as we proceed from the smallest to the largest schools 
This is probably due in a measure to the fact that in the smaller 
schools the percentages of teachers teaching one and two periods 
are swelled by the inclusion of superintendents and principals as 
teachers. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XX. 



77 



Number of periods supervised. 


Colo- 
rado. 


Illi- 
nois. 


Indi- 
ana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 





7 
7 
13 
3 

2 
1 














1 


42 
15 
45 
8 
. 3 
1 
2 

2 
1 
1 







1 



1 



1 

1 


24 
9 

20 
3 
1 
1 

1 


23 
9 

22 
4 
3 


19 
9 

43 
2 
1 

1 


36 
17 
25 
6 
3 
1 

1 





1 


26 
18 
17 
2 
2 
2 

1 



1 


1 

1 


20 


1-5 


11 


6-10 


9 


11-15 


3 


16-20 





21-25 





26-30 


1 


31-35 





36-40 . 









41-45 








1 


46-50 











51-55 








1 


56-60 











61-65 
























96-100 










1 














126-130 


























136-140 





























156-160 
















































34 

6 


124 
6 


59 
3 


61 
■1 


75 
6 


90 
3 


71 
3 


47 




2 







Number of periods supervised. 


Mon- 
tana, 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Olda- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Total. 





5 

2 

7 
1 

1 


11 
9 

25 
2 
1 

1 


7 

7 

12 

1 


50 
28 
45 
12 
2 
2 

2 
1 

1 


1 





1 


4 
2 

7 

1 


1 




5 
3 
8 

2 


25 
9 

37 
2 
3 
3 
2 


304 


1-5 


155 


6-10 


335 


11-15 


49 


16-20 


23 


21-25 . . . 


12 


26-30 




9 


31-35 




5 


36-40 














3 


41-45 














2 


46-50 














2 


51-55 














2 


56-60 
















61-65 
















66-70 
















96-100 
















111-115 
















126-130 
















131-135 
















136-140 . . .... 
















151-155 


















156-160 


















186-190 




































Total 


16 
6 


49 
6 


27 
5 


145 
4 


15 

6 


18 
6 


81 
6 


912 


Median 


5 











78 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XX — Continued. 



Number of periods supervised. 


0-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 


Total. 





49 

21 

22 

3 

3 


119 
80 

134 
10 
7 

2 


1 


55 
31 
87 
4 
1 


1 


47 
13 
69 
17 
3 
4 
4 
1 







1 


23 

6 

17 

13 

8 
4 
2 
2 
1 

1 





1 



1 


11 

4 
6 
2 
1 
4 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 


1 


1 
1 
1 
1 
1 


304 


1-5 


155 


6-10 


335 


11-15 


49 
23 
12 


16-20 


21-25 


26-30 




9 


31-35 




5 


36-40 




3 


41-45 






2 


46-50 






2 


61-55 








2 


56-60 










61-65 










66-70 




















111-115 1 










126-130 - - - - 










131-135 












136-140 














151-155 














156-160 














186-190 




























Total 


98 



353 

4 


179 
5 


159 
6 


79 

8 


44 
13 


912 




5 







From the foregoing it is evident that many teachers are being 
overworked. Consequently much of the work done in these schools 
is not of the very best order. It is further evident that the standards 
of the association are not being lived up to in practice in a good many 
instances. 

Supervised study. — Since supervised study is still in the experi- 
mental stage, it is of especial interest to know to what extent the 
schools of the association are adopting some method of study super- 
vision. The analysis of the reports concerning supervised study from 
912 schools is represented in Table XX, which should be read thus: 
Of the 34 schools reporting from Colorado, 7 have no supervised 
study, 7 supervise from 1 to 5 periods, 13 from 6 to 10 periods, etc., 
and the median number of periods supervised for the State is 6. 

Before passing to the following table attention should be directed 
to three points: First, the wide range of variation among the schools; 
second, the comparative uniformity in the median from State to 
State; and third, the effect of enrollment as expressed in the median. 
The wide range from no supervision at all to the supervision of 190 
periods shows that the value of supervised study has not come to be 
universally recognized and that efforts along this line are as yet ex- 
perimental. The uniformity in the median from State to State would 
indicate that no particular State is especially interested in the matter. 
On the other hand, the increase of the median from for schools 
having enrollments of 100 and less to 13 for the largest schools indicates 
that the larger schools have been forced, possibly because of the 
character of the communities in which they are located, to provide 
some place in which students may study. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



79 



Table XXI is a condensation of Table XX with the additional 
percentage feature. From it we read that 7, or 20.6 per cent, of the 
34 schools reporting from Colorado have no supervised study; 20, or 
58.8 per cent, supervise from 1 to 10 periods daily; and 7, or 20.6 per 
cent, supervise more than 10 periods. 

Table XXI. 





Colo- 
rado. 


Illi- 
nois. 


Indi- 
ana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri, 


Number of periods supervised: 




7 

20 

7 


42 
60 
22 


24 

29 

6 


23 
31 

7 


19 
52 
4 


36 
42 
12 


26 
35 
10 


20 


1-10 


20 




7 






Total 


34 


124 


59 


61 


75 


90 


71 


47 






Per cent supervising: 


20.6 
58.8 
20.6 


33.9 

48.4 
17.7 


40.7 
49.1 
10.2 


37.7 
50.9 
11.4 


25.4 

69.3 

5.3 


40.0 

45.7 
13.3 


33.7 
43.3 
14.0 


42.6 


1-10 


42 6 


Above 


14.8 






Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100 









Mon- 
tana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


Number of periods supervised: 




5 
9 
2 


11 

34 
4 


7 

19 
1 


.50 
73 
22 


4 
9 
2 


11 

2 


25 
46 
10 


304 


1-10 


490 


Above 


118 






Total 


16 


49 


27 


145 


15 


18 


81 


912 






Per cent supervising: 


31.3 
56.3 
12.4 


22.5 

69.4 

8.1 


26.0 
70.3 
3.7 


34.5 
50.3 
15.2 


26.7 
60.0 
13.3 


27.8 
61.2 
11.0 


30.9 
56.8 
12.3 


33 3 


1-10 . . 


53 7 


Above 


13 






Total 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100 








0-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 and 
over. 


Total. 


Number of periods supervised: 



49 
43 
6 


119 
214 
20 


55 

118 

6 


47 
82 
30 


23 
23 
33 


11 
10 
23 


304 


1-10 


490 


Above 


118 






Total 


98 


353 


179 


159 


79 


44 


912 






Per cent supervising: 

No periods 


50.0 
43.9 
6.1 


33.7 

60.6 

5.7 


30.7 
65.9 
3.4 


29.5 
51.6 
18.9 


29.1 
29.1 

41.8 


25.0 
22.7 
52.3 


33 3 


1-10 


53 7 


Above 


13 






Total 


100.0 


100.0 


lon.n 


100 


lOO n 


Iflft 


inn 

































80 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XXII. 























ca 






ni 


























































o 













Number of weeks of 5 days each in 










s 




t 
o 


t9 


C3 


03 






03 




a 

1 

.a 




the school year. 


o 

.9 


1 
■'3 




c3 




rt 


s 

a 

o 




3 
^ 


d 

2 


1 

3 




"3 




•-1 


t— 1 


I— 1 


W 


S 


a 


S 


S 


:z; 


:z; 








M 


!? 


&H 




2 


3 






1 


1 






1 




2 






1 


11 


34 


1 
2 

40 
13 

40 
9 

26 

1 
1 
1 


1 

2 
38 

6 
2 
3 






1 


5 
2 
34 
10 
42 

1 

1 



3 

49 


12 
2 
3 


1 

5 

30 

1 

2 

2 
8 


"s' 


3 
1 
2 


1 

3 

42 

1 


■26" 

3 

4 


1 
6 

69 
4 

54 
8 
8 


1 






2 

1 
44 

3 
23 

1 
13 


8 


35 


1 

48 


12 


1 


4 

70 

2 


2 

15 

1 


1 

14 

1 



1 


30 


36 


492 


37 


28 


38 


193 


39 


35 


40 






107 


41 






2 


42 
























1 


























3 




























Total 


136 
38 


55 
36 


62 
36 


76 
36 


97 
39 


70 
36 


49 
36 


14 
36 


48 
36 


27 
36 


153 
36 


18 
36 


17 
36 


88 
36 


910 




36 







Table XXIII. 



Number of recitation periods in daily 
program. 


.23 


B 


1 
5 


03 
1 

h- 1 




1 


03 




1 


03' 



03 
1 

'A 


03 

-a 
ft 


•1 



03 

a 






ft 

§ 

CO 


a 


3 



5 


3 
15 
44 
17 
3 
2 

84 

7 








1 

7 

38 

7 

2 


1 

3 
19 

7 


1 

4 
14 
11 

2 








2 

26 

52 

10 

2 

1 

93 

7 








8 


6 


12 
12 


9 

26 
3 


"i' 


1 


1 

6 
5 


1 

14 

7 


1 

9 
1 






5 

40 
13 


17. 


7 


6 
3 


3 
5 

1 


2,84 


8 


101 


9 


11 


10 












3 


Total 


24 

7 


38 

7 


2 

8 


55 

7 


30 

7 


32 

7 


12 

7 


22 

7 


11 

7 


9 

7 


9 

8 


58 

7 


479 


Median 


7 



The table shows that in 33.3 per cent of the schools of the associa- 
tion there is no supervised study, that in 53.7 per cent there are from 
1 to 10 periods supervised, and that in 13 per cent there are more 
than 10 periods supervised. It is very likely that in a large number 
of the cases represented by the 53.7 per cent supervised study does 
not so much give evidence of an attempt to make an experiment or 
to try out supervised study as it is a by-product of the school organi- 
zation. It is forced rather than voluntary. Not infrequently a 
school has a study room where the students are supposed to be when 
not in class. Some teacher who happens not to have a class during 
a given period is put in charge of the study room for the one period ; 
another teacher takes the room .the following period, and so on. In 
a great many cases where from 1 to 10 periods of supervised study 
are reported this is probably what is referred to — not exactly super- 
vised study, but something akin to it. In the 13 per cent of schools 
which have more than 10 periods supervised, doubtless we have in 
some cases serious attempts at study supervision. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



81 



LENGTH OF SCHOOL YEAR, SCHOOL DAY, ETC. 

Ill Table XXII we have the analysis of 910 reports in answer to 
the inquuy as the number of weeks of five days each during which 
school is actually in session. The table should be read thus: Two 
of the 136 schools reporting from Illinois have school years of less 
than 34 weeks, one has a school year of 34 weeks, etc., and the median 
length of school year is 38 weeks. * 

The striking fact brought out by the table is the very wide varia- 
tion from school to school in this respect, a variation of 10 weeks. 
This variation is especially noticeable in Illinois, Michigan, and Ohio. 
However, while there is this wide variation, the mode of 36 weeks 
stands out very clearly with 38 and 40 marked off distinctly from the 
rest. The median is also 36 in every State except Michigan and Illi- 
nois, in which States it is 39 and 38, respectively. 

Table XXIV. 



Number of 60-mmute hours in daily 
program. 


.23 
o 

.g 


C3 


o 


i 


c 

o 


1 


o 


c3 
1 

a 

o 




d 
O 

ft 
o 


d 
3 

o 


a 

o 

o 


-2 


03 
ft 

"3 



1 


"3 






1 

3 



2 

10 

14 

32 

16 

9 

16 



6 

3 

2 






















1 




"i" 

4 

7 
11 
15 

7 
11 



2 

3 

2 

63 
5i 


1 



2 


12 
21 
12 

4 

6 





1 

2 

61 
5i 


1 


1 
1 

14 
12 

5 
12 
10 

3 

4 

4 

2 

69 
5| 


1 



5 

2 
13 
27 
21 

4 

5 

2 

3 

4 

1 

88 
5i 


1 

2 




14 
10 
23 

6 

2 



1 

1 

2 

62 
5i 


















7 




1 

3 
3 
9 
14 
5 
4 
5 

3 
1 
1 

49 
5i 








2 

12 

9 

25 

42 

30 

9 

10 

4 

1 

3 

2 






2 

1 

2 
16 
23 
24 

7 

5 



2 

1 

1 

84 
5i 


7 




1 

1 
3 
5 
3 
1 

.... 










28 


4-3 






'2" 
3 

4 

1 

5 

1 
1 


1 


4 
7 
2 
2 


32 


5 


8 
7 
12 
11 
5 

3 
2 


1 

10 
9 
4 
2 

1 


1 


136 




219 


5i 


188 


5| 


83 


6 


8,5 


6} 


10 


6-i 


26 


7 


25 




15 




14 
5i 


48 
5h 


28 
5i 


17 
5§ 


16 
5i 




Total 


114 
5i 


149 

5i 


m?. 




5* 











Table XXV 






















Number of mimites in recitation 
period. 


.a 


.B 


03 
1 

a 


03 



1 


1 


1 


3 


.a 


d 

a 

a 



d 


d 

03 
ft 




i 



1 

1 
3 



d 

1 
03 
ft 

3 


m 


.g 

1 




Below 37 












1 

3 
1 

38 

3 
4 


11 







1 

62 
40 








1 


37 


1 
1 


40 
5 

23 

17 

1 

35 



3 

3 



10 

4 

2 

145 
43 






1 

9 

1 
34 

10 
8 

5 
1 




1 
.•? 
1 

74 

40 


1 
1 


29 
2 

18 

11 
1 

29 

1 
2 

1 
1 

97 
42 


















3 


38 


4 

41 
1 
3 
5 

9 






1 

64 
40 


1 



15 



13 

11 



21 





1 



1 

63 
43 


2 


19 

3 
8 
1 

11 

2 
1 

2 
1 
1 

51 

43 


"i' 

7 

1 
5 

1 


1 



34 

1 

3 

I 

4 



1 

2 


"i2' 


3 
3 

6 




2 


2 

1 

'I 

18 

13 

1 

58 



1 

4 
1 
2 

154 

43 






1 


38 

9 

10 
1 

17 




2 


25 


39 






4 


40 


7 

3 

1 
6 





1 


7 

2 
3 
1 
5 


372 


41. . 


11 


42 


112 


43 


101 


44 . . 


8 


45 . . 


218 


46 


1 


47 


6 


48 


9 


49 





50 


25 


55 


11 














8 


Total 


15 

40 


50 

40 


26 
42 


18 
42 


18 
43 


78 
41 


915 


Median 


42 







80790° 



82 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Number of recitation periods in the daily program. — rOwing to a mis- 
interpretation of the question on the blank, the available reports on 
the number of recitation periods in the daily program is compara- 
tively small. The blank asked for the number of recitations in the 
daily program. Some interpreted this to mean the total number of 
daily recitations, while others thought it had reference to the number 
of recitation periods in the daily program. Since the latter interpre- 
tation was made in the majority of cases, it was accepted and made 
the basis of Table XXIII. Where another interpretation was put 
on the question, or where the case is doubtful, the report is not 
included in the table. From the table we read that of the 84 schools 
reporting from Illinois 3 have but 5 recitation periods in the daily 
program, 15 have 6 periods, etc. 

The mode is clearly seen to be 7. The median is 7 for the associa- 
tion as a whole, and 7 for every State except for Kansas and South 
Dakota, where it is 8. 

Number of 60-minute hours in the daily program. — The actual num- 
ber of 60-minute hours in the school day, excluding all recess periods, 
as reported from 862 schools, constitutes the basis of Table XXIV. 
The table is understood if read thus: One of the 114 schools reportmg 
from Illinois has a school day of less than four 60-minute hours, three 
of 4 hours, of 4-| hours, etc. 

The striking fact here brought out is the great variation in the 
length of the school day from school to school, which ranges from 
less than 4 to more than 7 hours. The variation from State to 
State, however, is not great, the medians being very uniform, in no 
case being either less than 5^ or more than 5f hours. 

Number of minutes in the recitation period. — Table XXV shows the 
distribution of 915 schools reporting on the number of minutes in the 
recitation period. It should be read as follows: The recitation 
period in one of the 145 schools reporting from Illinois is 37 minutes 
in length, in one it is 38 minutes, in it is 39, etc. 

Again, the absence of miiformity is the surprising fact. As 
important as is the length of the recitation period, we find it varying 
from below 37 muiutes to above 55, a difference of 20 minutes at 
least. Some of the variation may be due to the misinterpretation 
of the question asked, which called for the number of minutes in the 
clear in each recitation period. The phrase ''in the clear" was 
probably overlooked or disregarded in some oases and misinterpreted 
in others. It was intended that the number of minutes required to 
pass from one recitation to another be deducted from the length of 
the recitation period, because the class is not actually in session until 
the students are in the classroom and the recitation begun. The 
bimodal character of the distribution is evidenced by the much 
greater frequency at both 40 and 45 points to this conclusion. It 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 83^ 

was easier to give just 40 or 45 minutes, as the case might have been^ 
than to deduct the 2 or 3 minutes necessary to pass between classes. 

The length of the recitation period seems to vary but little from 
State to State, and not enough to call forth any particular comment. 

It should be pointed out in this connection that the length of the 
j:ecitation period is of real significance and that the marked lack of 
uniformity in this respect presents a serious problem to an association 
which is attempting to standardize certain of the features of the 
secondary school in order that there may be a more thorough coopera- 
tion among the secondary schools and between the secondary schools- 
and the colleges. The ''unit" course of study, while defined as "not 
less than the equivalent of 120 60-minute hours of classroom work," 
is seen to be a somewhat variable unit. The lower limit is set, but, 
since the upper is not, the actual classroom work done for a unit's- 
credit in one school may be over one and a half times as much as that, 
done in anotlier school, as is shown by the reports. For example^ 
computation based upon the reports from the four extreme schools 
concerning the number of weeks of five days each in the school year 
and the number of minutes in each recitation period discloses the fact 
that in two of these schools the total classroom work done during the 
school year to get a unit's credit amounts in each case to 185 60-minute 
hours, and in the other two schools the unit's credit is secured by 
doing only 103 60-minute hours of classroom work. Surely a unit's 
credit from the two latter schools should not be considered equal to 
that from the other two, if conditions are otherwise at all comparable. 
It should also be noted that the two schools giving a unit's credit for 
onl}^ 103 hours of v/ork are not meeting the requirements of the asso- 
ciation. Of the 910 schools reporting, there are 36 that do not meet 
these requhements. It perhaps should be added that in practically 
every case the commercial period is of exactly the same length as the 
recitation period, while the laboratory, manual training, agriculture^ 
cooking, and sewing periods are in each case just double the recitation 
period. 

Number of daily recitations. — The total number of daily recitations 
in a school is important, because it determines the scope of the course 
of study offered by that school to its students. If there are but 
comparatively few daily recitations, the chances are that opportuni- 
ties of selection on the part of the student will be limited to the 
standard academic subjects, since the other subjects generally come 
as additional subjects arid do not take the place of those which are 
considered to be unquestionably necessary to the course of study of 
the pubhc high school. Table XXVI is a brief table which may throw 
some light on this feature of the school. It is read thus: In the 115 
schools reporting from Illinois the average number of daily recitations 
per school is 66, in the 51 Indiana schools it is 68, etc. 



84 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XXVI. 





















d 






03 






















































o 






O 








'3 

.g 


C3 

i 

'■3 
o 


03 

o 


03 

i 


a 
3 

o 


B 

o 
a 

a 

a 


o 




:4 
a 


o 

'si 
O 


c3 

i 
1 

3 
o 


03 

O 

A 

3 
o 

CO 


.g 
1 


"3 
o 


Average number of daily recitations per 
































U.5 


68 
51 


48 


64 
73 


57 
81 


66 

58 


73 
41 


36 
44 


37 

27 


63 
126 


49 
13 


46 
14 


66 
65 


54 




756 








1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501- 
1,000 


1,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


Average number of daily recitations per school. 


27 


34 


50 


72 


122 


227 


59 




7S 


305 


146 


139 


51 


37 


75fi 










1 




1 



















Table XXVII. 







Number of units required for graduation. 




13i 


14 


15 


15i 


16 


16J 


17 


17i 


18 


19 


20 


21i 


24 


Total. 


Number 


of 


1 


1 


152 


13 


732 


7 


23 


2 


14 


3 


1 


1 


1 


951 







It is necessary to call attention to only one or two points of interest. 
Among the States the average number of daily recitations varies 
from 36 in Nebraska to 78 in Missouri. That this variation is due 
largely to variation in size of schools from State to State is brought 
out in that portion of the table in which enrollment is made the basis 
of grouping the schools. Here we see the number of daily recitations 
increasing from 27 in schools having 100 students or less to 227 in 
schools of over 1,000 enrollment. Of course, this is a fact that is 
familiar to all, but it nevertheless makes it very clear that the large 
school has a distinct advantage over the small school in that it is 
able to offer a wider range of subjects and is therefore better enabled 
to meet the needs occasioned by individual differences among the 
students as well as the needs of the community. 

CONCERNING GRADUATION. 

NUMBER OF UNITS REQUIRED FOR GRADUATION. 

In view of the fact that the number of units required for gradua- 
tion from a secondary school is one of the first matters to be taken 
into consideration in any attempt to bring about a better under- 
standing among the secondary schools and between the secondary 
schools and the colleges to which they are accredited, this feature of 
the high school is of especial interest to us. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH. SCHOOLS. 



85 



Nine hundred and fifty-one schools reported concerning the number 
of units required for graduation. These reports form the basis of 
Table XXVII which reads from left to right as foUows: One school 
requires but 13^ units for graduation; one, 14 units; 152, 15 units, etc. 
It should be stated here that according to the standards of the associa- 
tion, ''No school shall be accredited which does not require 15 units, 
as defined by the association for graduation." 

Table XXVIII. 



Number of units for each graduate in 
1913. 


Illinois. 


Indi- 
ana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


Mon- 
tana. 


15 


649 

305 

4,177 

490 

242 

161 

94 

97 

107 

30 


145 

320 

1,875 

197 

143 

86 

102 

10 

6 


299 

285 

1,900 

147 

108 

43 

26 

28 


384 

40 

2,024 

8 

156 

2 

2 


715 

246 

2,081 

302 

233 

130 

77 

8 

17 


14 

120 

2,582 

174 

148 

74 

69 

24 

8 


479 
103 
848 
50 
86 
22 
407 
50 
126 


28 


15* 


33 


16 


284 


16i 


19 


17 


76 


m 





is :::::..: 


3 


19 


7 


20 


2 


21 
























Total 


6,352 


2,884 


2,836 


2,616 


3,809 


3,213 


2,171 


452 






Number of units for each gradu- 
ate in 1913. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


15 


297 

114 

872 

109 

36 

25 

11 


144 
52 

224 
27 
35 
19 
14 
1 


158 

288 

5,775 

515 

445 

99 

161 

241 

8 


20 
64 
309 
18 
27 
10 
27 
1 


6 

2 

323 

94 

52 

5 

10 


903 

149 

2,156 

279 

208 

27 

132 

35 

33 


4,241 


15J 


2,121 


16 


25, 430 


16^ 


2,429 


17 - 


1,995 


17* 


703 


18 


1,135 


19 


502 


20 






307 


21 .... 










30 




















1,464 


516 


7,690 


476 


492 


3,922 


38, 893 






1913. 


Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 




489 

321 

2,637 

276 

154 

75 

92 

18 

4 

30 


431 

470 

3,958 

445 

438 

122 

107 

59 

23 


184 

370 

2,385 

377 

239 

102 

183 

87 

14 


351 

271 

2,355 

223 

274 

104 

101 

15 

22 


310 

193 

2,205 

321 

133 

76 

62 

5 

1 


1,130 

436 

4,112 

494 

328 

122 

144 

45 

11 


1,346 
60 

7,778 
293 
429 
102 
446 
273 
232 


4,241 


15J 


2,121 




25, 430 


16} 


2,429 


17 


1,995 


17J 


703 




1, 135 


19 


502 




307 


21 


30 


















Total 


4,09fi 


6,053 


3,941 


3,716 


3. SOfi 


Q,R9.2 


10,959 


38, 893 























It is seen that 732, or 77 per cent, of the 951 schools reporting 
require 16 units for graduation, and that the majority of the remain- 
ing schools require 15 units. Thus in this matter the schools seem 
to be thoroughly standardized. The single school requiring 24 units 
is a six-year high school in a school system in which the six-and-six 
plan is being tried out. 



86 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



NUMBER OP STUDENTS GRADUATING IN 1913 WITH MORE THAN 14 UNITS. 

Wliile a scliool requires a student to do a certain amount of work 
for graduation, it does not prevent his collecting more than the 
required number of units of work. This surplus of work done in the 
high school has become a real problem. It raises the question of 
giving college credit for work done in the secondary school. If 
college credit is not given for such work, the question arises whether 
the student has not been sacrified to a lack of coordination between 
high schools and colleges. On the other hand, if credit is given, it is 
only fair that work of a high grade be demanded. 

In Table XXVIII is shown the number of students graduating 
from the schools of the association in 1913 with more than 14 units. 
The table is composed of two parts, the one based upon State, the 
other upon population. It is understood when read thus: 649 of the 
students graduating from the schools of Illinois in 1913 graduated 
with 15 units, 305 with 15^ units, 4,177 with 16 units, etc. 

It will be sufficient to call attention to but one or two points 
I)rought out in the table. While the great majority of the graduates 
a,re credited with 16 units, there are, nevertheless, considerable num- 
bers with both less and more than 16 units. There seems to be no 
particular variation from State to State in this matter, while the 
proportion having more than 16 units is slightly larger in the large 
jcities than in the small cities. 

Table XXIX. 



60 


65 


67 


68 


70 


71 


75 


76 


77 


78 


80 


81 


82 


83 


85 


90 


13 


12 


1 





268 


1 


539 


1 








90 











3 




5 


5 





1 


211 


1 


411 


1 


1 


2 


216 


4 


1 


3 


56 


5 



To- 
tal. 



Passing grade 

• College recommendation 
grade 



928 
923 



The importance of the question just raised regarding the crediting 
by a college of surplus work done in the high school becomes very 
evident after an examination of the table, since there is a range of 7 
units among the graduates from the schools of the association in 1913. 
It is obvious that, unless some provision be made on the part of the 
coUege for the crediting of the work done in excess of the 15 units 
(or whatever the entrance requirement for the particular college may 
be), there is going to be a great deal lost in passing from the secondary 
school to the college because of poor articulation. 

GRADE required FOR PASSING AND FOR RECOMMENDATION TO COLLEGE. 

That the grade required for passing and the grade required for 
recommendation to college are not always identical in a high school 
is brought out by Table XXIX, which is based upon 928 reports 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



87 



regarding the passing grade and 923 reports concerning the grade 
required for recommendation to college. Reading from left to right, 
13 schools have a passing grade of 60, 12 a passing grade of 65, etc. 
Aside from the fact that the grade required for recommendation to 
college is in a number of cases higher than the grade required for 
passing, it is interesting to note the wide variation in both cases, 
although 70, 75, and 80 are much more frequent than any other of the 
grades. Since grades are the means of communication between 
institutions, there is evident need of standardization in these matters. 

Table XXX. 



Average in all subjects 
for— 


64 


65 


66 


67 


68 


69 


70 


71 


72 


73 


74 


75 


76 


77 


78 


79 


80 


81 


Class of 1913 






















1 





3 


1 


2 


2 

1 

45 

0.6 

.2 

10.4 


13 
1 

45 

4.3 

.2 

10.4 


I") 


Highest ranking student 

























Lowest ranking student. 
Percentages: 

Class of 1913 


1 





1 


1 


4 


3 


23 


5 


13 


16 


14 
0.3 


47 
0.0 


37 
1.0 


42 
0.3 


58 
0.6 


31 

T 


Highest ranking stu- 
dent 






















n 


Lowest ranking stu- 
dent 


0.2 


0.0 


0.2 


0.2 


0.9 


0.7 


5.3 


1.2 


3.0 


3.7 


3.2 


10.9 


8.5 


9.7 


13.3 


7.2 



Average in all sub- 
jects for — 


82 


83 


84 


85 83 


87 


88 


89 


90 


91 


92 


93 


94 


95 


96 


97 


98 


99 


To- 
tal. 


Class of 1913 


20 
1 

15 
6.7 

.2 
3.5 


32 

12 
10.7 

2.8 


33 

1 

9 

11.0 

.2 

2.1 


61 35 


30 

6 



10.0 

1.2 




24 

6 

1 

8.0 

1.2 

9 


9 
15 


11 
19 


4 

22 


4 
37 
















?00 


Highest ranking 


1 

8 

20.4 

.2 

L9 


1 

2 

11.8 

2 

.0 


62 


79 


98 


69 


50 


15 


5 


489 


Lowest ranking stu- 
dent 


433 


Percentages: 

Class of 1913 

Highest ranking 

student 

Lowest ranking 

student 


3.0 
3.1 


3.7 
3.9 


1.3 

4.5 


1.3 
7.6 


12.7 


16.2 


20.0 


14.1 


10.2 


3.1 


1.0 

































It should be mentioned that a number of the schools reporting, 
not included in the table, grade by letter A, B, C, etc., instead of by 
number. This difference further lessens the uniformity in grading. 

AVERAGE OP GRADUATING CLASS, HIGHEST AND LOWEST RANKING STUDENTS. 

Thi'ee hundred schools reported the average in all subjects of the 
class graduating in 1913, 489 schools reported the average in all 
subjects of the highest ranking student of the same class, and 433 
schools reported the average in aU subjects of the ^lowest ranking 
student who was actually graduated. The distribution of these 3 
gi'oups is found in Table XXX, which is read thus: The average of 
the class graduating in 1913 from 1 school was 74, 3 schools 76j etc.; 
the average in all subjects of the highest ranking student in 1 school 
was 79, in 1 school 80, etc.; and the average of the lowest ranking 
student in 1 school was 64, in 1 school 66, etc. 



88 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



The impressive fact brought out by this table is the utter lack of 
uniformity among the schools in grading. In a number of cases 
the average of the highest ranking student in some schools is lower 
than that of the lowest ranking student in others. That which is a 
very high grade in one school may be a very low grade in another 
and vice versa; and it is undoubtedly true that with the change of 
management and teachers the grading in a given school will change. 
Thus, as the art of grading now stands, for it is evidently far from a 
science, a grade conveys little meaning to anyone not acquainted 
with the system in which and the individual by whom it is given. 
It has a meaning for the person who gives it and possibly for the 
one who receives it, but it goes little farther. 

In figure 14 the relation between the highest ranking student 
and the lowest ranking student and the average of the class is pre- 
sented graphically. The distance along the horizontal axis denotes 
the grade and the distance along the vertical axis the per cent of 
schools. Two points should be mentioned. In the first place, the 
grade of the highest ranking student and the average of the class 
exhibits less variation from school to school than does the grade of 
the lowest ranking student, the mode or most frequent grade being 
much less marked in the latter than in the former. In the second 
place, the irregularities in the curve representing the lowest ranking 
student, which show 70, 75, and 78 to be more frequent than the 
grades above or below, seem to indicate that there is not so much 
care taken in grading the weakest student as in grading the strongest 
student. In a great many schools 70 and 75 are the passing grades. 
There seems to be a tendency to give this passing grade to those 
students who rank close to it. If a student seems to be just below, 
he is given the benefit of the doubt, while, if he is just above, it is 
easier to give the passing grade and be done with it. 

Table XXXI. 





Per cent of those going to college in highest third of the class. 







1-9 


10-19 


20-29 30-39 


40-49 


50-59 


60-69 


70-79 


80-89 


90-99 


100 


Total. 


Number of schools. . . 


n 


2 


6 


17 28 


28 


82 


43 


17 


27 


9 


63 


333 



THE RANKING OF THE STUDENTS WHO GO TO COLLEGE. 

It is generally assumed that the better students go to college. 
This assumption is borne out by Table XXXI, which is based upon 
the reports from 333 schools regarding the per cent of those students 
going to college from the class graduating in 1913 who stood in the 
highest third of the class while in high school (''highest third mean- 
ing highest numerical third after the class is ranked from best to 
worst")- The table becomes clear if read as follows: In 11 of the 
schools reporting, no students who went to college were in the highest 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



89 



PER CENT OF SCHOOLS 



o 


M ^S 05 


tf~ ai o ~^ CO <s> o^-'^BC0rf-aI05-^cD 


S § 2 


§3 


































> > >■ 

o o o 

as Si s! 

i> > t> 
f tr" o f 
c^ r" o t-* 

M m ^ 03 

9 S >■ § 

O O kJ Q 
CO M O CO 

"d o f' '^ 


— 


2 


































8 


































05 


































S 


































CO 


1 


































1 
































O 










1 
























-^ 


1 
































J2 


































CO 






,1 




























^1 






1 




























a 




















1 














s 
















1 




















2'i> 

o 

to 


-^ 


















1 
















s 


























1 








Q 




S 1 


































00 ! 
° 1 


































CO 


































s 1 














1 






















§§ 




,1 
















1 














^! 




1 






































S! 


1 






































1 


§1 










































CD 


1 
1 








































g| 


1 








































0= 

to 






1 




































o 






1, 




































o 








1 


































g 














1 




























s 
























1 


















^ 
































1 










g 










































g 




























j 














^ 




















1 






















g 






1 




































§ 










































8 











































90 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



third; in 2 schools between 1 per cent and 9 per cent were in the 
highest third; in 6 between 10 per cent and 19 per cent were in the 
highest third, etc. 



Table XXXII. 





State. 




Illinois. 


Indi- 
ana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


Mon- 
tana. 


Number students graduating in 1913 
who have gone to — 


953 
67 
67 
65 
141 
422 
390 
231 
142 

, 48 
124 
159 


436 

73 

42 

46 

174 

148 

283 

174 

75 

35 

28 

72 


435 
49 
27 
42 
29 
119 
268 
229 
31 

48 
80 
88 


323 
45 
30 
76 
91 
96 
247 
543 
18 

63 

131 


440 

80 

108 

63 

284 

215 

337 

288 

99 

34 

84 
88 


409 
53 
13 
36 
170 
101 
157 
165 
38 

33 
160 
113 


221 
23 
17 
11 
45 
70 

142 

114 

^29 

W-- 

17 

13 

108 


41 


Commercia] school 


18 


Trades 







15 




4 




22 


At horae 


52 




21 




17 


Domestic economy and agricul- 
ture 


22 




15 




11 






Total 


2,809 


1,586 


1,455 


1,663 


2,120 


1,448 


810 


238 






Per cent who have gone to- 


33.9 
2.4 
2.4 
2.3 
5.0 
15.0 
13.9 
8.2 
5.1 

1.7 
4.4 
5.7 


27.5 
4.6 
2.7 
2.9 

11.0 
9.3 

17.8 

11.0 
4.7 

2.2 

1.8 
4.5 


28.9 
3.4 
1.9 
2.9 
2.0 
8.2 
18.4 
15.7 
2.1 

3.3 
5.5 
6.7 


19.4 
2.7 
1.8 
4.6 
5.5 
5.8 
14.9 
32.5 
1.1 

3.8 
0) 
7.9 


20.' 
3.8 
5.1 
3.0 
13.4 
10.1 
15.8 
13.6 
4.7 

1.6 
4.0 
4.2 


28.2 

3.7 
.9 

2.5 
11.7 

7.0 
10.8 
11.4 

2.6 

2.3 
11.1 

7.8 


27 3 
2.8 
2.1 
1.3 
5.6 
8.6 
17.6 
14.1 
3.6 

2.1 

1.6 
13.3 


17.1 




7.6 







Farming 


6.3 




1.7 




9.3 


At home 


21.8 


Other occupations 


8.8 




7.2 


Domestic economy and agricul- 
ture . ., 


9.3 
6.3 




4.6 







State. 





Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Total. 


Number students graduating in 
1913 who have gone to— 
College 


183 
25 
16 
34 
54 
56 
118 
126 
22 

10 
155 
34 


151 
18 
12 
23 
40 
67 
44 
83 
9 

4 
37 
20 


1,311 
203 
275 
110 
165 
485 
631 
459 
129 

50 

88 

243 


61 
12 
12 
10 
26 
13 
41 
49 
2 

5 
11 
20 


121 
11 

6 

7 
37 

8 
54 
99 

9 

55 
10 
30 


405 

85 

66 

62 

224 

235 

327 

327 

53 

51 
66 
160 


5,490 




762 


Trades 


691 


Farming 


600 




1,484 




2,057 


At home 


3,091 




2,908 




673 


Domestic economy and agri- 
culture 


475 


Teaching 


871 


Unknown 


1,287 






Total 


833 


508 


4,149 


262 


447 


2,061 


20,389 






Per cent who have gone to— 
College 


22.0 
3.0 
1.9 
4.1 
6.5 
6.7 
14.2 
15.1 
2.6 

1.2 
18.6 
4.1 


29.7 
3.6 
2.4 
4.5 
7.8 

13.2 
8.7 

16.3 
1.8 

.8 
7.3 
3.9 


31.5 
4.9 
6.6 
2.7 
4.0 
11.7 
15.2 
11.1 
3.1 

1.2 
2.1 
5.9 


23.4 
4.6 
4.6 
3.8 
9.9 
4.9 
15.6 
18.7 
.8 

1.9 
4.2 
7.6 


27.0 
2.5 
1.3 
1.6 
8.3 
1.8 
12.1 
22.2 
2.0 

12.3 
2.2 
6.7 


19.7 
4.1 
3.2 
3.0 
10.9 
11.5 
15.8 
15.8 
2.6 

2.5 
3.2 

7.8 


26.9 




3.7 




3.4 


Farming 


2.9 


Normal school 


7.3 


Business 


10.1 


At home 


15.1 


Other occupations 


14.3 




3.3 


Domestic economy and agri- 
culture 


2.4 


Teaching 


4.3 


Unknown 


6.3 







1 The reports from Kansas concerning teaching were unsatisfactory. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



91 



Table XXXII— Continued. 





Population. 




Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 


Number students graduating in 1913 
who have gone to- 


699 
99 
59 
175 
178 
264 
452 
600 
103 

79 
285 
134 


1,038 
194 
129 
198 
323 
408 
757 
787 
138 

156 
274 
274 


899 
144 
122 

89 
242 
298 
566 
445 

90 

97 
130 
175 


572 

73 

58 

44 

158 

205 

288 

265 

54 

38 
66 
107 


612 

84 

43 

46 

173 

234 

344 

303 

46 

16 
40 
112. 


652 
97 
116 
35 
166 
309 
406 
389 
104 

54 
58 
119 


1,018 
71 
164 
13 
244 
339 
278 
119 
138 

35 

18 

366 


5,490 




762 




691 


Farming 


600 


Normal school 


1,484 




2, 057 




3,091 


O ther occupations 


2,908 


Professions 


673 


Domestic economy and agricul- 
ture 


475 




871 


Unknown 


1,287 






Total 


3,127 


4,676 


3,297 


1,928 


2,053 


2,505 


2,803 


20,389 






Per cent who have gone to— 

College 


22.3 
3.2 
1.9 
5.6 
6.7 
8.4 
14.5 
19.2 
3.3 

2.5 
9.1 
4.3 


22.3 
4.1 
2.8 
4.2 
6.9 
8.7 
16.2 
16.8 
2.9 

3.3 
5.9 
5.9 


27.4 
4.4 
3.7 
2.7 
7.3 
9.0 
17.2 
13.5 
2.7 

2.9 
3.9 
5.3 


29.7 
3.8 
3.0 
2.3 
8.2 
10.6 
14.9 
13.7 
2.8 

2.0 
3.4 
5.6 


29.8 
4.1 
2.1 
2.2 
8.4 
11.4 
16.7 
14.8 
2.2 

.8 
2.0 
5.5 


26.0 
3.9 
4.6 
1.4 
6.6 
12.3 
16.2 
15.5 
4.2 

2.2 
2.3 

4.8 


36.3 

2.5 

5.9 

.5 

8.7 

12.1 
9.9 
4.2 
4.9 

1.3 

.6 

13.1 


26.9 




3.7 




3.4 


Farming 


2.9 


Normal school 


7.3 


Business 


10.1 




15.1 


Other occupations 


14.3 


Professions .... 


3.3 


Domestic economy and agricul- 


2.4 


Teachinc; 


4.3 


Unknown 


6.3 







CoUegc • 



At home 



26.9 per cent. 



15.1 per eent. 



Business - 



10.1 per cent. 



Normal school 



.3 per cent. 



Teaching 

Commercial school 
Trades 




Farming 

Domestic economyl 
and agriculture / 

Other occupations - - - 



14.3 per cent. 



Unknown ■ 



6.3 per cent. 



Fig. 15.— Percentage of class graduating in 1913 who are in various pursuits. 



92 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS, 



The significant fact is that of the 333 schools reporting, 241, or 
shghtly over 72 per cent, report that 50 per cent or more of their 
students who went to college were in the highest third of the class. 
Thus it is seen that, although many of the weaker students go to 
college, the majority rank well above the mediocre student. 

OCCUPATIONS OF CLASS GRADUATING IN 1913. 

Since the school is coming to be regarded as a place to which the 
child may go in order to get a training that will fit him for his place 
in society rather than as a place to which he may go to be put through 
mental gymnastics of one kind or another, it is of interest to know 
what these students in the high school do after graduation. The 
analysis of 596 reports concerning the graduating class of 1913 has 
given us Table XXXII, which is composed of two parts, the one being 
based upon State, the other upon population, and each having the 
accompanying percentage feature. It is read thus: Of the 2,809 
pupils graduating in 1913 from the 77 schools reporting from Illinois, 
953, or 33.9 per cent, went to college; 67, or 2.4 per cent, went to 
commercial schools, etc. 

There seems to be considerable variation from State to State in 
every case, although there is a larger percentage of the graduates 
going to college than doing any other one thing in every State except 
Montana and Kansas, in which States the largest percentage is found 
staying at home and in ''other occupations," respectively. In the 
larger cities a larger percentage goes to college, enters the trades, 
and goes into business than in the small cities, while a larger percent- 
age goes to the farm, enters "other occupations," and takes up 
teaching in the small cities than in the large cities. 

The bar diagrams in figure 15 represent for the entire association 
the percentages of graduates going to college, staying at home, going 
into business, and so on. It is seen that over one-fourth of the high- 
school graduates go to college. 

Table XXXIII. 





State. 


Number of recitation rooms. 


Colo- 
rado. 


Illi- 
nois. 


In- 
diana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


0-5 


15 
12 
3 
3 
1 
1 

1 


34 
39 
18 
17 
8 
3 
2 
2 
1 
2 


13 
31 
6 
5 
2 
1 
3 
1 


2 


17 

30 
10 
2 
1 
1 

1 
2 


26 
25 
14 
2 



2 
1 


29 
40 
12 
8 
3 
3 

1 

1 
1 


27 
29 
6 
2 



15 


6-10 


19 


n-15 


7 


16-20 


1 


21-25 


1 


26-30 


2 


31-35 


1 


36-40 


2 


41-45 


1 


46-50 







51 and over 








1 















Total 


36 

7 


126 
9 


64 
9 


64 

8 


70 

7 


98 
8 


70 

7 


50 


Median 


7 







STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XXXIII — Continued. 



93 





State. 


Number of recitation rooms. 


Mon- 
tana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Total. 


0-5 

6-10 


I 
1 
2 
1 

1 


31 
14 
3 

1 

1 


19 
7 
2 


51 
54 
21 
9 
7 
4 
2 

1 


6 
8 
2 




1 


6 

10 

1 

1 
1 


31 
36 
10 
1 
3 
2 


2 


322 
3G3 


11-15 


116 


16-20 


53 


21-25 


29 


26-30 


19 


31-35 


10 


36-40 




12 


41^5 








9 


45-50 












4 


51 and over 
















5 




















Total 

Median 


16 
9 


50 
5 


28 
3 


149 

7 


17 

7 


19 
6 


85 
7 


942 

7 





Enrollment. 


Number of recitation rooms. 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 


0-5... 


67 
31 

1 


212 

147 

12 

. ? 


27 
131 

24 
2 

1 


6 

49 

71 

27 

5 





1 


6 

4 

8 

23 

18 

13 

5 

1 

1 


4 
1 

1 
4 
6 
5 
10 
8 
4 
5 


322 


6-10 


363 


11-15 


116 


16-20 


53 


21-25... 




29 


26-30 




19 


31-35 








10 


36-40 








12 


41-45 . . 




::::::::::i;::::::::: 


9 


46-5(1 








4 






1 






5 






! 








Total 


99 
4 


372 

5 


185 

8 


159 
12 


79 

20 


48 
37 


942 


Median 


7 







MATERIAL EQUIPMENT. 
NUMBER OF ROOMS FOR THE VARIOUS PURPOSES. 

Table XXXIII is the result of an analysis of 942 reports concerning 
the number of rooms used exclusively for recitation purposes. It 
should be read in this fashion: In Colorado 15 schools reported from 
to 5 rooms used exclusively for recitation purposes, 12 from 6 to 10, 
and so on. The table shows that for the whole association the 
number of recitation rooms for the largest number of schools falls 
in the interval from 6 to 10, and that 5 schools have more than 50 
rooms used for recitation purposes only. The median for the asso- 
ciation is 7. Among the States the median ranges from 3 for North 
Dakota to 9 in Illinois, Indiana, and Montana. It is somewhat 
surprising to find such a wide variation in so fundamental a matter 
as the number of recitation rooms. 

The median for the several groups of schools when grouped accord- 
ing to enrollment shows that the number of recitation rooms increases 
with the enrolhnent of the school since it advances from 4 in schools 



94 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGU SCHOOLS. 

with enrollments of 100 and less to 37 in schools haying enrollments 
of more than 1,000 pupils. It should be noted, however, that the 
median does not increase so rapidly as does the enrollment. 

Table XXXIV is a table of medians giving the median number of 
recitation rooms, laboratory rooms, manual-training rooms, domestic- 
science rooms, assembly rooms, and rooms used for more than one 
purpose for each State of the association and for the six groups of 
schools when grouped according to enrollment. The table is read 
thus: In Colorado the median number of recitation rooms is 7; 
laboratory rooms, 2; manual- training room, 1; domestic-science 
room, 1 ; assembly room, 1 ; room used for more than one purpose^ 1 ; 
and the total of the medians is 13. 

The table shows that in number of laboratory rooms the schools 
of Illinois are better supplied than those of any other State, while 
in North Dakota and South Dakota the median is lowest. The 
median number of manual training rooms is greatest in Montana, 
where it is 3. In both Nebraska and Ohio the median number of 
domestic science rooms is zero. The median number of assembly 
rooms is uniformly 1 throughout the States. The total of the 
medians favors Montana, where it is 18, and Illinois, with 17, and 
North Dakota foots the list with a total of but 9, Nebraska coming 
next with 10. 

Enrollment seems to affect the median number of rooms for the 
various purposes in every instance except in the case of assembly 
rooms, where the median is uniformly 1 regardless of size of school. 

In addition to the rooms used exclusively for recitation purposes, 
laboratory purposes, and so on, a school frequently has a number of 
rooms which are not used exclusively for any one purpose but for 
several purposes. The extent to which this is done is again brought 
out in Table XXXV, as is also the number of overcrowded rooms. 
From the table we read that the median number of rooms used for 
more than one purpose in the schools of Colorado is 1, and the median 
number of overcrowded rooms in the same State is zero. The 
median is 1 for all the States except Michigan, Minnesota, and North 
Dakota, where it is 2, and Missouri and Oklahoma, where it is zero. 
The median number of overcrowded rooms is uniformly zero in 
every State and in every group of schools. (The reader should 
keep in mind the fact that the reporting on the number of over- 
crowded rooms may be influenced by a desire on the part of the indi- 
vidual making out the report to put the school in the best light 
possible. Exactly what an overcrowded room is, is not defined by 
the association.) 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XXXIV. 



95 



Median number. 



Eecitation rooms 

Laboratory rooms 

Manual training rooms 

Domestic science rooms 

Assembly rooms 

Rooms used for more than 1 pur- 
pose 

Total of medians 



State. 



Colo- 
rado. 



Illi- 
nois. 



In- 
diana. 



Iowa. 



Kan- 
sas. 



Michi- 
gan. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Mis- 
soiui. 





State. 


Median number. 


Mon- 
tana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Total. 


Recitation rooms 


9 
2 
3 
2 
1 

1 


5 
2 
1 


1 

1 


3 

1 
1 
1 

1 

2 


7 
2 
1 


1 

1 


7 
2 
1 
2 
1 




6 
1 
1 
1 

1 

1 


7 
2 
2 
2 

1 

1 


7 




2 


Manual training rooms. - 


I 




1 


Assembly rooms 


1 


Rooms lised for more than 1 pur- 
pose 


1 






Total of medians 


18 


10 


9 


12 


13 


n 


15 


13 









Enrollment. 


Median number. 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 


Recitation rooms 


4 
1 



1 
1 

1 


5 
2 
1 
1 

1 

1 


8 
2 
1 

1 
1 

1 


12 
2 
2 
2 

1 

1 


20 
3 
3 
2 
1 

1 


37 
4 
4 
3 
1 

1 


7 




2 




1 




1 




1 


Rooms used for more than 1 


1 






Total of medians 


8 


11 


14 


20 


30 


50 


13 







Table XXXV. 







State. 


Median niunber. 


Colo- 
rado. 


Illi- 
nois. 


In- 
diana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


Rooms used for more than 1 

pose .' 

Overcrowded rooms 


pur- 


1 



1 



1 



1 



1 




2 



2 













State. 


Median number. 


Montana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Rooms used for more than 1 
purpose 


1 
n 


1 
n 


2 
n 


1 
n 



n 


1 
n 


1 


Overcrowded rooms 


ft 

































96 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XXXV— Continued. 





Enrollment. 


Median number. 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 


Rooms used for more than 1 


1 



1 



1 




1 



1 



1 




1 












Table XXXVI. 



Number of rooms. 


For labo- 
ratory. 


For 
manual 
training. 


For 
domestic 
science. 


For 

assembly. 


Used for 
more 
thanl 

purpose. 


Over- 
crowded 
rooms. 





99 
700 
132 

10 
1 


274 

651 

96 

17 

4 


277 

607 

54 

4 


112 

805 

24 

1 


318 

495 

109 

14 

6 


783 


1-3 


130 


4-8 


15 


9-15 


13 


16 and over 


1 










Total 


942 
2 


942 
1 


942 
1 


942 
1 


942 
1 


942 












Table XXXVII. 





Recitations in study room? 


State. 




Colo- 
rado. 


Jlli- 
nois. 


In- 
diana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


No !---- 


30 
6 


103 
23 


58 
6 


59 
5 


60 
10 


63 
35 


27 
43 


35 


Yes 




15 




Total 






36 


126 


64 


64 


70 


98 


70 


60 











State. 


Recitations in study room? 


Mon- 
tana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Total. 


No 


15 
1 


40 
10 


15 
13 


99 
50 


17 


19 


75 
10 


715 


Yes 


227 










Total 


16 


50 


28 


149 


17 


19 


85 


942 









Enrollment. 


Recitations in study room? 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 


No 


56 
43 


260 
112 


164 
21 


141 

18 


60 
19 


34 
14 


715 


Yes 


227 






Total 


99 


372 


185 


159 


79 


48 


942 







vSince the median gives only the central tendency and does not give 
any idea whatsoever of range or deviation from the central tendency, 
it is likely to be unsatisfactory and give a false impression. Conse- 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AI^D HIGH SCHOOLS. 97 

quently Table XXXVI has been devised to overcome this difficulty. 
In this table it is attempted to give the distribution for each item of 
the 942 schools reporting on the number of rooms for the various 
purposes and the number of overcrowded rooms, without grouping 
the schools according to either State or enrollment. It is seen that, 
while the median number of laboratory rooms is 2, there are 99 
schools having no rooms given over exclusively to laboratory purposes, 
and there is 1 school with over 16 laboratory rooms. Furthermore, 
although the median number of manual training rooms is less than that 
of laboratory rooms, there are 21 schools having 9 or more manual 
training rooms as opposed to 11 having a like number of laboratory 
rooms. And again, the median number of overcrowded rooms is 
zero, yet there are 159 schools reporting one or more rooms that are 
overcrowded. 

If a school does not have a sufficient number of recitation rooms to 
meet the demand, it frequently has resort to the study room. This 
custom is to be deplored because both the student and the teacher are 
put to a disadvantage when the recitation is conducted in the presence 
of students other than those concerned in the recitation. It also 
disturbs the study of the students in the study room. The extent to 
which this is practiced in the schools of the association is shown in 
Table XXXVII, which is read as foUows: In Colorado 30 of the 36 
schools reporting do not and 6 do have recitations in the study room. 
Among the States the worst offenders in this regard are Minnesota and 
North Dakota. Although it is more frequent to find recitations in the 
study room in the small schools than in the large schools, the smaU 
schools by no means have a monopoly upon the practice. For the 
entire association 227, or slightly over 24 per cent, of the 942 schools 
reporting have recitations in the study room. This is indicative of 
cramped conditions and inadequate material facilities, or too few 
instructors. 

VALUE OF SCIENTIFIC APPARATUS. 

Besides rooms, material equipment includes the apparatus neces- 
sary for proper instruction in the sciences and certain of the other 
subjects. The value of equipment in the various subjects is repre- 
sented in Table XXXVIII, which is a somewhat general table giving 
the distribution for the entire association of the schools reporting on 
each item. The reader will notice at once that manual training is not 
included in the table. This is due to the omission of this item from 
the report blank. The value of equipment for manual training was 
not asked for and consequently information concerning it was not 
given. The table becomes clear if read as foUows: Of the 897 schools 
reporting the value of physics equipment, 4.5 report equipment to the 

80790°— 1,5 7 



98 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



value of from $51 to $200, 311 from $201 to $500, etc., and the median 
value of physics equipment among the schools of the association is 
$650. 

The reports were not entirely satisfactory in that they were incom- 
plete in many cases, the number reporting varying from 897 for physics 
to 376 for agriculture. It is doubtless true that frequently informa- 
tion was withheld when the value of equipment was zero. The table 
shows a very wide variation among the schools in the value of equip- 
ment for each subject. In every subject except sewing there is at 
least one school having over $5,000 worth of equipment, while in 
every one except physics there are some schools having less than $50 
worth of equipment. The amount spent annually for equipment also 
varies in the same way. 

A more interesting table from the standpoint of comparison is 
Table XXXIX, which is a table of medians similar in organization to 
Table XXXIV. It should be read thus : Among the schools reporting 
from Colorado the median value of physics equipment is $895, of com- 
mercial equipment $675, etc. 



Table XXXVIII. 



Value of equipment. 


Phys- 
ics. 


Chem- 
istry. 


Bot- 
any. 


Zool- 
ogy. 


Agri- 
culture. 


Sewing. 


Cook- 
ing. 


Com- 
mercial 
course. 


Spent 
annu- 
ally. 


Under $50 




13 
105 

282 
190 
99 
38 

7 

1 


77 

387 

238 

78 

29 

12 

2 


207 

113 

45 

25 

11 

1 


138 
164 
51 
13 
6 
2 
2 


37 

274 

171 

40 

15 

6 


3 

69 

272 

158 

43 

14 

3 


16 
36 
155 
160 
90 
25 
1 


$26 


$51-$200 


45 

311 

292 

154 

80 

12 

3 


203 


$201-8500 


189 


$501-$1,000 


105 


$1,001-$2,000 


44 


$2,001-85,000 


15 


$5,001-810,000 





Above $10,000 


1 


















Total 


897 
650 


735 

465 


823 
180 


468 
170 


376 
75 


543 
175 


562 
430 


483 
605 


583 


Median 


285 







Table XXXIX. 



Median value of equipment 
for — 



State. 



Colorado. 



fill 



Indiana. 



Iowa. 



Kansas. 



Michigan. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Physics 

Commercial course 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Botany 

Sewing 

Zoology 

Agriculture 

Total 

Median amoimt spent annually 



$895 
675 
520 
490 
215 
185 
220 
50 



$840 
700 
740 
445 
205 
185 
215 
140 



8490 
720 
415 
450 
210 
150 
185 
75 



$555 
535 
400 
365 
110 
120 
120 
50 



$430 
535 
310 
420 
160 
175 
150 



$840 
510 
460 
450 
185 
195 
165 
85 



3,250 
245 



3,470 
320 



2,695 
415 



2,255 
265 



2,240 
295 



2,890 
350 



500 
415 
540 
155 
200 
95 
335 



2,885 
635 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XXXIX— Continued. 



99 











State. 








Median value of equipment for— 


Mis- 
souri. 


Mon- 
tana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Physics 


$550 
775 
475 
450 
190 
200 
195 
115 


$1,500 
650 
820 
900 
300 
325 
750 
350 


$390 
290 
255 
230 
195 

70 
225 

50 


$590 
565 
300 
415 
195 
160 
150 
125 


$835 
680 
635 
450 
135 
190 
95 
50 


$400 
850 
550 
375 
150 
140 
175 
75 


$625 
500 
415 
4,50 
225 
125 
175 
40 


$670 




735 




485 




390 




185 


Sewing 


175 


Zoology 


175 




55 






Total 


2,950 
230 


5,595 
650 


1,705 
195 


2,500 
400 


3,070 
200 


2,715 
600 


2, 555 
170 


2,870 


Median amount spent annually 


260 



Median value of equipment 
for- 



Enrollment. 



1-100 



201-300 



301-500 



501-1.000 



1,001 and 
over. 



Total. 



Physics 

Commercial course 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Botany 

Sewing 

Zoology 

Agriculture 

Total 

Median amount spent annually 



$490 
350 
375 
410 
135 
150 
120 
55 



$460 
420 
335 
360 
130 
115 
100 
65 



$680 
575 
440 
380 
165 
160 
125 
75 



$930 
760 
740 
525 
310 
225 
260 
125 



1,340 
1,050 
715 
480 
430 
470 
200 



$2, 750 
1,780 
1,740 

865 
1,160 

800 
1,060 

600 



$650 
605 
465 
430 
180 
175 
170 
75 



2,085 
175 



1,985 
190 



2,600 
300 



3,875 
440 



6,565 
800 



10, 755 
960 



2,750 
285 



For the entire association physics ranks first with $650 as the 
median, commercial subjects second with $605, and agriculture last 
with only $75. This same order is followed in most of the States, 
])ut there are numerous exceptions, as can be readily seen upon exam- 
ination of the table. The number of interesting comparisons that 
could be drawn is almost without limit, but it will be sufficient to 
point out a few of the most important. A most interesting fact is 
that the Montana schools seem to be in a class by themselves, for in 
every case except that of commercial subjects the median is higher 
for Montana than for any other State. To be sure only 16 selected 
schools are included in the Montana report. The total of medians 
gives to Montana $5,595 and to Illinois, the nearest competitor, only 
$3,470. At the other extreme we find Nebraska with a total of but 
$1 ,705, less than one-third that of Montana. In the number of dollars 
spent annually Montana also heads the list with $650 and South 
Dakota comes last with $170. 

Turning to the other half of the table we see that in every case the 
median value of equipment increases with the size of school. An 
interesting exception to this statement is disclosed upon comparing 
the group of schools having enrollments of 100 pupils or less with the 
group of schools next larger in size — that is, those having from 101 
to 200 pupils. Except in the case of agriculture and commercial 



100 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



subjects the median favors the group of smaller schools and the total 
favors the smaller schools by $100, An explanation of this fact is 
probably found in the fact that only the exceptional school of an enroll- 
ment of less than 100 is able to qualify for admission to membership 
in the association. This includes a number of private schools and 
academies in which the equipment is generally somewhat more 
elaborate than in the ordinary public high school of the same size. 

LIBRARY FACILITIES. 

THE HIGH-SCHOOL LIBRARY. 

The high-school library is coming to be a real and valuable feature 
of the modern high school. The character of this library among the 
north central schools can be determined in a measure by an examina- 
tion of Table XL, in which it has been attempted to show the kind and 
number of books in these schools as determined by the reports. The 
table becomes clear when read as follows: Of the 704 schools reporting 
on the number of volumes in the high-school library for English, 4 re- 
ported no volumes, 70 reported from 1 to 50, 234 from 51 to 200, etc., 
and the median number of volumes for English is 238. In addition 
to the number of volumes in the library this table gives the number 
of volumes added in 1913 and the number of dollars spent for books 
during the same year. This table is of interest to show the variation 
from school to school in the number of volumes for the various 

subjects. 

Table XL. 



Number of volumes. 


si 




.a 


d 
.o 

o 


5 
1 

3 


o 

PQ 


Ph 


i 
> 




i 
g 

O 


' .i 




3 

9 

o 
'C 

< 


o 
o 
N 





4 

70 

234 

237 

105 

42 

11 

1 


3 

61 

313 

234 

77 
22 

1 


158 
129 
192 
145 
48 
10 
10 
1 


165 

356 

150 

21 

4 



1 


53 

557 

70 

8 


42 

589 

65 

2 


140 

430 

102 

3 



1 


91 

536 

59 

10 


127 
473 

78 
13 

1 


129 

531 

39 

1 


99 
551 

1 


176 

453 

55 

8 

2 

1 


196 


1-50 


443 


51-200 


50 


201-500 


5 


501 1 000 




1,001 2,000 












2 001 5 000 


























































Total .... 


704 
238 


711 
189 


693 

a? 


697 
21 


688 
18 


698 
16 


676 
14 


696 
13 


692 
10 


700 
9 


693 
9 


695 

8 


694 


Median 


8 


Number of volumes. 


a 
1 


o 


ti 

.s 

1 

o 


Ml 

1 


.3 


c3 

'li 


ti 

.g 

i 




(h 


1^ 

ill 


S2 
o p. 

(a a 


B 

Td . 

o 
o 

P5 


§ . 

0) 

p- 

w 





196 

442 

34 

5 

1 


213 
452 

17 
2 


295 

388 
13 

1 


306 

370 

16 

5 


336 

359 

4 


340 
305 

27 
2 

1 


356 

281 

44 

1 


544 

116 

17 

2 

1 


114 

282 

181 

58 

12 

9 

1 


167 

401 

74 

•10 

6 



1 


10 

261 

342 

99 

32 

9 


10 


1-50 


167 


51-200 


376 


201-500 


138 


501-1,000 


34 


1,001-2,000 










6 


2,001-5,000 


















1 


















































Total 


678 

7 


684 
5 


697 
2 


697 
2 


699 

1 


675 



682 



680 



657 
37 


659 
13 


753 

78 


732 


Median 


111 







STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



101 



In Table XLI is set forth the number of sets of encyclopedias in 
the libraries of the high schools. From it we read that of the 799 
schools reporting, 8 report no encyclopedias; 93 report 1 set each; 
218, 2 sets, etc. The median number of sets per school is 3. The 
table shows that although there is an actual variation of from to 
16 sets per school, the great majority have either 2, 3, or 4 sets. 

Table XLI. 





Sets of encyclopedia. 







1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


15 


16 


To- 
tal. 


Me- 
dian. 


Number of schools. 


8 


93 


218 


219 


114 


64 


27 


16 


17 


9 


10 


1 


1 


1 


1 


799 


3 



Table XLII is another table of medians, and is read in this way: 
The median number of volumes for English in the libraries of the 
schools of Colorado is 290, for history 170, fiction 200, etc., and the 
total of the medians is 807. 



Table XLII. 



Median number volumes for — 



State. 



Colo- 
rado. 



Illinois. 


Indi- 


Iowa. 


Kan- 


Michi- 


Minne- 




ana. 




sas. 


gan. 


sota. 


281 


269 


193 


175 


275 


255 


232 


196 


150 


184 


221 


234 


88 


23 


50 


68 


140 


180 


8 





34 


48 


19 


32 


22 


20 


12 


12 


22 


24 


19 


18 


15 


9 


19 


18 


19 


15 


14 





15 


26 


22 


18 


8 


12 


14 


9 


18 


13 


7 


7 


13 


7 


13 


10 


4 


3 


15 


17 


13 


7 


6 


7 


15 


18 


4 


1 


8 


16 


5 


32 


22 


3 


7 


3 


14 


17 


14 


12 


9 





9 


8 


1 


1 


6 





6 


13 


5 





5 


4 


2 


9 


3 








5 


1 


10 








3 


4 


2 


5 


7 











8 





6 











5 


5 




















797 


606 


531 


557 


820 


919 



Mis- 
souri. 



English 

History 

Fiction 

Education 

Botany 

Physics 

Civics 

Latin 

German 

Chemistry 

Physical geography 

Agriculture 

Zoology 

Mathematics 

Physiology 

Cooking 

Manual training 

Sewing 

Commercial course. 

Drawing 

French 

Total 



290 
170 
200 
23 
15 
15 
18 
13 



285 

217 

67 

44 

7 

12 
10 
14 
5 
6 
5 
21 
9 
6 










102 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Table XLII — Continued. 



Median number volumes tor- 



State. 



Montana. 



Ne- 
braska. 



North 
Dakota. 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



South 
Dakota. 



Wiscon- 
sin. 



English 

History 

Fiction 

Education 

Botany 

Physics 

Civics 

Latin 

German 

Chemistry 

Physical geography 

Agriculture 

Zoology 

Mathematics 

Physiology 

Cooking 

Manual training... 

Sewing 

Commercial course. 

Drawing 

French 

Total 



417 

217 
34 



(') 



0) 



0) 



350 
163 
83 
19 
19 
19 
15 
9 
9 
14 
13 



192 
138 
81 
13 
10 
14 
12 
11 
10 
6 
6 
6 
2 
6 
5 









250 

125 

41 

23 

9 

12 

6 

5 

5 

8 
6 
5 
3 

1 








375 

220 

213 

21 

21 

13 

18 

16 

16 

11 

15 

9 

16 

15 

9 

2 

3 

3 

8 

14 





221 

238 

92 

21 

28 

25 

23 

15 

16 

9 

20 

12 

9 

9 

13 

6 

4 



7 

1 





313 



506 



769 



Median nunibpr M)iuni(\s tor- 



English 

History 

Fiction 

Education 

Botany 

Phj^sics 

Civics 

Latin 

German 

Chemistry 

Physical geography 

Agriculture 

Zoology 

Mathematics 

Physiology 

Cooking 

Manual training . . . 

Sewing 

Commercial course. 

Drawing 

French 

Total 



Enrollment. 



186 

140 

125 

14 

12 



101-200. 



175 

153 

80 

25 

15 

15 

9 

10 

7 

6 

9 

12 

6 

6 

5 

1 

1 











535 



247 

198 

70 

23 

16 

17 

15 

12 

9 

9 

9 

9 

6 

8 

5 

3 

1 

1 









301-500. 



344 
247 
64 
17 
21 
18 
17 
16 
17 
12 
10 



818 



501-1,000. 



517 

356 

113 

10 

31 

23 

39 

32 

38 

25 

16 



21 

15 

12 

8 

5 

5 

4 

12 




1,288 



1,001 
and over. 



850 
750 
113 
25 
53 
40 
69 
43 
53 
27 
43 
3 
37 
24 
16 
16 
19 
4 
14 
25 
17 



2,241 



Total. 



238 
189 
83 
21 
IS 
16 
14 
IS 
10 
9 
9 
8 
8 
7 
5 
2 
2 
1 






For the entire association the table shows EngUsh leading with 238 
volumes, history second, with 189, and commercial subjects, drawing, 
and French tying for last place with medians of zero. English also 
leads in every State except Kansas, Nebraska, and Wisconsin, where 
it is surpassed by history. The examination of the totals brings out 
the interesting fact that here again the Nebraska schools have a firm 
grip on last place with but 313 volumes, as opposed to 1,018 for the 
South Dakota schools, whicii represent the other extreme. ■ 

The size of the school seems to have about the same effect upon 
library equipment as it was found to have upon material equipment, 



The blanks sent to the Montana schools did not call for these subjects. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



103 



except in the case of books of fiction, for education, and for agricul- 
ture. In these three cases the table shows no definite con-elation 
between the number of volumes and the size of school. The same 
relation between those schools having enrollments under 100 and 
those with from 101 to 200 pupils is found here that was found in 
the tables on material equipment. The group of smaller schools has 
facilities superior to those of the other group. 

Table XLIII gives the median number of United States and State 
Government reports, and is read thus: In the schools of Colorado the 
median number of United States Government reports is 83 and of 
State government reports 7. It is seen that the larger schools do 
not possess a larger supply of these reports than do the smaller schools. 
This is doubtless due to the fact that they are free. 

Table XLIII. 







state. 


Median number volumes of- 


Colo- 
rado. 


Illinois 


Indi- 
ana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


United States Government reports. . . 
State government reports 


8.3 


35 
U 


33 
10 


30 
13 


39 
9 


41 
25 


49 
21 


22 

"7 








State. 


Median number volumes of— 


Montana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


United States Government re- 
ports 


40 
6 


50 
15 


46 
9 


19 
9 


31 



.50 
12 


40 


state government reports 


20 




Enrollment. 




Median number volumes of — 


1-100. 


101-200. 


201-300. 


301-500. 


501-1,000. 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 


United States Government re- 
ports 


23 


41 


40 


3.3 


34 


42 


.37 


State government reports 




8 




15 




14 


1 







9 




10 




13 



In Table XLIV is given the median number of sets of encyclope- 
dias per school. It is read in the same way as the previous tables. 
The interesting fact is the striking uniformity from State to State, 
the median being 3 sets per school in every State except Nebraska 
and Oklahoma, where it is 2. The larger schools show a median of 4 
sets as opposed to 2 for the smallest schools. 



.104 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XLIV. 







State. 


Median number sets of— 


Colo- 
rado. 


niinois. 


In- 
diana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 




3 


3 


3 


3 


3 


3 


3 


3 








State. 


Median number sots of— 


Montana. 


Nebraska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 




3 


2 


3 


3 


2 


3 


3 



































Enrollment. 


Median number sets of— 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 and 
over. 


Total. 




2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


4 


3 







Table XLV gives the median number of books per school added in 
1913 and the median number of dollars spent for books in the same 
year. Among the States the smallest number of books added per 
school as represented by the median is 44, for Nebraska; the largest is 
150, for Oklahoma. The largest amount of money spent per school is 
$175, for Oklahoma, and the smallest, $75, for Ohio. The effect of en- 
rollment is the same as in the previous cases, so it need not be 

discussed again. 

Table XLV. 





State. 


Median number of— 


Colo- 
rado. 


Illinois. 


dilna. I«^^- 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


Books added in 1913 


82 
$91 


53 
$125 


72 
$105 


55 

$81 


66 
$99 


1.02 
$137 


94 

$95 


80 


Amount spent for books in 1913 


$118 





State. 


Median number of— 


Montana. 


Nebraska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wiscon- 
sin. 


Books added in 1913 


110 
$125 


44 
$90 


88 
$88 


64 

$75 


150 
$175 


106 
$138 


80 


Amount spent for books In 1913. . 


$108 




Enrollment. 


Median number of— 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 ^nd 
over. 


Total. 


Books added in 1913 


58 

$87 


63 

$82 


70 

$97 


103 
$112 


97 
$145 


270 
$263 


78 


Amount spent for books in 1913. . 


$111 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



105 



THE CITY LIBRARY. 



It often happens that, besides the high-school library, the high 
school has access to a city library. The extent to which the cities 
in which the schools of the North Central Association are located 
have public libraries is brought out in Table XL VI. This table is 
understood when read thus: In Colorado the cities in which 5 of 
the 32 schools reporting are located have no public libraries; the 
cities in which 4 of the schools are located have libraries of 2,500 
volumes or less, etc. 

The States in which the cities are least weU equipped with libraries 
are Kansas, North Dakota, and Missouri, while the cities of Mon- 
tana, Illinois, and Indiana seem to be very well provided. An, 
examination of the part of the table based upon population shows 
that the number of cities not having libraries steadily decreases as 
the size of city increases and that the size of library increases along 
with the size of the city. This is one of the advantages which a 
school enjoys in being situated in a large city, although this advan- 
tage may be diminished by the fact that in a large city the library 
may not be so easily accessible as in a small one. 

Table XL VI. 











State. 








Number of volumes in city library. 


Colo- 
rado. 


Illinois. 


Indi- 
ana. 


Iowa. 


Kan- 
sas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri, 





5 
A 

10 
8 
3 
2 


11 
11 
16 
31 
20 
12 
2 
29 


3 
5 
11 
17 
9 
5 

2 


1 
8 
16 
12 
S 
3 


15 

14 

10 

9 

5 

1 


IS 
11 
10 
16 
11 
9 

7 


7 
7 
19 
11 
5 
1 
1 
10 


21 


1-2,500 


6 


2,501-5,000 


2 


5 001-10,000 


4 


10 001-25,000 


1 


25,001-50,000 





50 001 100 000 . 


1 


100 001 and over 








la 












Total 


32 


132 


52 


48 


54 


85 


61 


48 








State — Continued. 


Number of volumes in city library. 


Mon- 
tana. 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Total. 





1 

3 
2 

5 

1 


9 
12 
14 
6 
2 
3 
2 


9 
7 
5 
2 


25 

6 

21 

25 

19 

7 

9 

21 


3 
2 
2 
6 

1 


2 
2 
5 
4 
3 


3 

7 
24 
16 
19 
2 

5 


133 


1-2,500 


102 


2,501-5,000 . 


168 


5 001-10,000 


169 


10,001-25,000 


114 


25,001^0 000 . . 


46 


50 001 100 0(X) 






15 










87 
















Total 


12 


48 


23 


133 


14 


16 


76 


834 







106 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Table XLVI— Continued. 





Population. 


Number of volumes in city library. 


Under 
2,500 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 





67 
58 
39 
19 


36 
29 

88 
48 
9 
1 

2 


19 
8 
20 
40 
20 
2 


6 
4 
U 
33 
16 
1 


4 
2 
8 

13 
31 
5 


1 

1 



15 

34 

31 

2 

1 


2' 

1 
4 

84 


133 


1-2,500 


102 


2,501-.5,000 


168 


5,001-10,000 


169 


10,001-25 000 


114 


25,001-50 000 




46 


50,001-100,000 




15 


100 001 and over . . 










87 














Total 


183 


213 


109 


71 


63 


8.5 


110 


834 







COURSE OF STUDY. 



THE METHOD OF ELECTION. 



Does the student elect by subject, or by course, or by a combina- 
tion of the two ? This is a question that must be answered in some 
way by every school that permits any election whatsoever. Table 
XL VII, is based upon the reports from 909 schools. It is composed 
of two parts, the one giving the actual number of cases, the other 
the percentages, and is read as foUows: Of the 34 schools reporting 
from Colorado, 19, or 56 per cent, permit their students to elect by 
subject; 4, or 12 per cent, permit their students to elect by course; 
and 11, or 32 per cent, combine the two methods of election. 

It is interesting to note that for [the whole association election by 
subject occurs about as frequently as election by course, while the 
combmation method is very nearly as frequent as either of the other 
two. From State to State, however, some differences are plainly 
visible. Election by subject predominates to a considerable degree 
in Colorado, Michigan, and Indiana; election by courses in Ohio, 
Iowa, and North Dakota; while in Montana, and to a less extent in 
Kansas, the combination method is most frequently found. The 
size of city seems not to be definitely related to the method of 
election, although there does seem to be some tendency in the largest 
cities to adopt the method of election by course. This same state- 
ment holds for the size of school, as an examination of the table 
will show. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XL VII. 



107 



Method of election. 



State. 



Colo- 
rado. 



Illi- 
nois. 



Indi- 
ana. 



Iowa. 



Kan- 
sas. 



Michi- 
gan. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Mis- 
souri. 



By subject 

By course 

Both 

Total 

Per cent by subject 
Per cent by course. 
Per cent by both. . . 



122 



Method of election. 



State. 



Mon- 
tana. 



Ne- 
braska. 



North 
Dakota. 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



South Wis- 
Dakota. coasin. 



Total. 



By subject 

By course 

Both 

Total 

Per cent by subject 
Per cent by course. 
Per cent by both. . . 



49 



27 



139 



315 
"320 
274 



909 



35 

35 
30 



Method of eleclion. 



By subject 

By course 

Both 

Total 

Per cent by subject 
Per cent by course . 
Per cent by both. . . 



Population. 



Under 
2,500 



2,501- 
5,000 



5,001- 
7,500 



119 



7,501- 
10,000 



10,001- 
15,000 



15,001- 
50,000 



50,001 
and 
over. 



113 



Total. 



315 
320 
274 



909 



Method of election. 



By subject 

By course 

Both 

Total 

Per cent by subject 
Per cent by course. 
Per cent by both.. 



Enrollment. 



1-100 



101-200 



131 
122 
100 



353 



201-300 



301-500 



501-1,000 



1,001 and 
over. 



Total. 



315 
316 
271 



902 



NUMBER OF UNITS OI^ WORK GIVEN IN THE VARIOUS SUBJECTS. 

Certain difficulties arose in the preparation of tlie tables on this 
matter. The report blank called for the ''number of units or half 
units of work actually being given this year in each subject." This 



108 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



is somewhat ambiguous, with the result that some reported the 
number of ''units/' others, the number of "half units," given in 
each subject. These differences, however, were in most cases easily- 
detected by a comparison of the various items in the report, and 
the final table is made of corrected items. A real mistake, which 
was undoubtedly made in a few cases, although only in a few, and 
which was more difficult to detect, was a wrong interpretation of 
the number of units of work actually being given. It seems that 
in some cases the number of divisions in a subject was given instead 
of the number of different units of work offered in the school. 

Concerning the number of units of work being given in the various 
subjects, there were reports from 869 schools. Upon these 869 
reports all the following tables referring to the course of study are 
based. The first of these tables — -Table XLVIII — is a somewhat 
general table in which is shown the number of units of work given 
in each subject in each of the 869 schools reporting. The table is 
read thus: One school reports units of English, schools report 

1 unit, 5 schools report 1, etc.; 15 schools report units of Latin, 

2 schools 4 unit, 9 schools 1 unit, etc. 

Table XLVIII. 



Number of units. 


a 




.a 


"3 . 

a" 

o 


d 

a 

O 


< 


>> 

a 

o 

o 


it 


1 


¥ 


.a 

i 


1 





1 


5 
1 
3 
2 
105 
55 
617 
23 
29 
2 
3 
1 
4 
3 
8 
2 



1 

1 





1 
1 

1 


15 
2 
9 
4 
63 
5 

198 
5 

552 
2 
6 

2 
1 
1 
1 
2 



1 


9 

3 

13 

32 

104 

171 

318 

72 

119 

8 

9 

2 

5 







3 

















1 


230 
52 
71 
24 
72 
17 
40 
15 
132 
22 
56 
16 
43 
12 
13 
7 

20 
5 
5 

3 

2 
1 

1 
3 
7 


18 

20 
3 

435 
7 

229 
9 

131 
1 
3 

9 
2 
1 

1 


3 
3 

76 
632 
118 
15 
14 
1 
2 

1 
1 


1 
1 









1 


4 
1 

138 
678 
34 
4 
6 

1 



2 



1 


294 

53 

136 

18 

206 

9 

59 

3 

79 
1 
4 

2 
' 


2 





1 

1 












1 


37 
8 
777 
21 
21 
1 
2 

1 







1 


376 

60 
183 

19 

168 

3 

29 


26 

2 

1 





2 


216 

20 

592 

13 

20 

3 

2 

1 

1 











1 




342 


i 


103 


1 


252 


IJ 


29 


2 


115 


2* 





3 : 


12 


3J 





i..::.: :.: 


15 


4i 





5 





5i 





6 .::::..:.:.:.: 





6i 





7*:.:: 





7* 





8* :::::.:.:.:.: 





8J 





9 


1 


(», 




10 










11 










lU 










12 










12i 










13 










14 










16 




















Igi 




















24 






















26 






















30 






















35 
























62 
















































Total 


869 
4 

4 


869 
4 

J 
4 


869 
3 

3 


869 
li 
2 



869 
2 
i 
2 


869 
li 

li 


869 
li 

li 


869 
1 
1 



869 
1 



1 


869 
i 

1 



869 

1 
i 

1 


869 


Median 


* 




* 













STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XLVIII— Continued. 



109 





ft 




i 

6-2. 
1 


1 

<5 







£ 






'C 




I 

si 






1 

3 




3 







435 
120 
173 

21 

53 
5 

17 
1 

30 

4 

4 



2 


1 

2 




• 






1 


379 

99 
228 

24 

104 



17 


16 



1 





1 




606 

32 

62 

15 

52 

16 

12 

4 

48 

4 

6 

3 

3 





1 

4 



1 

























1 


411 

168 

193 

10 

41 

3 

25 

4 

13 
1 


160 
364 
334 
3 
7 

1 


680 
2 

35 
1 

70 
5 

49 


24 

1 

2 


192 
467 
203 
2 
3 



1 






1 


490 

152 

153 

14 

34 

2 

3 



17 

1 

3 


145 

066 

52 

3 

9 

s 





1 


335 

483 
44 
2 
1 



2 




1 


1 


520 
229 
112 
4 
2 

2 


664 
81 
89 

4 
11 

1 
15 

1 

3 


571 


i 


122 


1 


97 


l.l 


15 


2' 


29 


2i 


8 


3 


U 


31 


3 


4'. 




4J 


1 


5 






3 


5i ... 

0,. ................ 






























^ 














1 


7 



















7* 
















1 


s:...: : 



















8^ 




















1 


9 























9i 























10 























11 























llj 























12 























12.\ 




















1 


13 






















14 






















16 






















m 






















24 






















26 























30 






















35 






















62 






















































Total 

Median 


869 

i 



869 

i 




869 


i 

6 


869 
h 




869 
h 

X 

1 


869 





869 

* 

i 


869 


h 
6 


869 
i 


i 


869 

i 

1 


869 

k 



869 





869 



Quartile deviation. 










What was said in a previous paragraph in a general way regarding 
a ^vrong interpretation by some of those reporting is made specific 
in this table. Take English for instance. One school reports 26 
units of English, another 24, and another 18|^. It is hardly possible 
that so many units are actually being given in any school. These 
reports must have reference to the number of divisions in English 
instead of the number of units of English given. Similar extremes 
for manual training, commercial course, and drawing may be correct, 
while those for history, algebra, and normal subjects are probably 
errors. 

An examination of the median, mode, and quartile deviation dis- 
close some interesting facts. It should be remembered that the 
median here represents the number of units given in the middle 
school when the 869 schools are arranged in order, according to the 
number of units of a particular subject given, with the school giving 
the least number of units at one extreme and the school giving the 
greatest number of units at the other; the mode is the number of 



110 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

units found in the greatest number of schools; and the quartile 
deviation is the range of the middle 50 per cent divided by two. 
Where the quartile deviation is zero, at least 50 per cent of the 
schools give the same number of units as is represented by the median. 
In other words, a quartile deviation of zero is indicative of uni- 
formity among the schools. A further indication of uniformity is 
found when the median and mode are identical. 

It will be noticed that the median number of units given is liighest 
in English and Latm, in both of which it is 4; history comes next 
with a median of 3, and German is third with 2. In algebra, geometry, 
and the commercial subjects the median is 1^; in physics, manual 
training, and chemistry it is 1 ; in cooking, agriculture, physical 
geography, physiology, civics, botany, domestic science, and sewing 
it is but i; and in the remaining subjects, French, zoology, educa- 
tion, music, dramng, and normal subjects it is 0. When the median 
is zero, that means that at least 50 per cent of the schools do not 
give a single unit or half unit of the subject. 

As previously mentioned, a quartile deviation of zero indicates 
imiformity, or a tendency toward standardization. An examination 
of the table shows that the quartile deviation is zero for English, 
physics, physical geography, French, civics, education, algebra, and 
geometry. It is also seen that the median is zero for French and 
education. This means that at least 75 per cent of the schools offer 
no French and no education. The quartile deviation of zero for the 
other six subjects, English, physics, phj-sical geography, civics, 
algebra, and geometry, shows that the number of units offered is 
thoroughly standardized for each subject. Over 50 per cent of the 
schools offer 4 units of English, 1 unit of physics, i unit of physical 
geograph)^, J unit of civics, 1^ units of algebra, and \h units of 
geometry. The largest quartile deviation is found in the number 
of units of commercial subjects offered where it is 2. Manual training 
and domestic science come next with a quartile deviation of 1 . The 
large deviation shows that there is a wide variation among the 
schools as to the number of units given. 

Table XLIX gives the total number, of units of work for each 
subject given in each of the several groups of schools when the schools 
are grouped according to State, population, and enrollment. It is 
consequently composed of three parts, and is made clear, if read in 
this way: In the 122 schools reporting from Illinois, there is given a 
total of 568J units of English, 457 units of Latin, 387^ units of history, 
etc.; the total number of units for aU subjects combined is 4,263. 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table XLIX. 



Ill 



Number of units of— 



State. 



Illinois. 



Indiana. 



Iowa. 



Kansas. 



Michigan, 



Minne- 
sota. 



Missouri. 



English 

Latin 

History 

Commercial course 

German 

Algebra 

Geometry 

Manual training 

Physics 

Domestic science 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Drawing 

Sewing 

Normal subjects 

Agriculture 

Botany 

French 

Physical geography 

Music 

Civics 

Physiology 

Zoology 

Education 

Other subjects 

Total 

Number of schools reporting 



457 

387i 

4081 

339 

213i 

194| 

247 

132 

115 

im 

102 

188 

106 
25i 
35J 
78 

104 
67i 
86i 
62 
71 
74 
16J 
65i 



250 
217§ 
189i 
154 
202i 
97 
93J 
88i 
59i 
67J 
53 
62J 
69 
62 

23 
49 
27 
23J 
69 
28 
13 
13 
2 
31 



236i 

227 

160i 

132 

1331 
99J 
86i 
97^ 
61i 
74J 
26 

• 69 
22i 
47 i 

131i 
40i 
34 
7 
29i 
20i 
29 
27i 

m 

35i 

m 



26U 

251J 

222J 

215i 

174 

116 

110 

102 

77 

72 

34J 

65i 

43 

65 

174 

63i 
Hi 
31§ 
44J 

m 

41 
14 
29J 
26 



390i 

315i 

308| 

339J 

243i 

162 

138 

116 

64 

97 

56^ 

73J 

60 

23J 

57 

63J 

73i 

70i 

40" 

31 

19 

2i 
27 



247 
216 
161 
152 
135 



159i 
59 
84J 
59 
76| 

74 
133 

m 

38 
23 
28i 
21i 
301 
22i 
22 
2J 
42i 



4.263 
122 



1,938 
61 



1,^ 



60 



2,354§ 
74 



2,901 
95 



2,113 
62 



201 

185 

167 
93i 

134 
90 
76J 
56i 
46i 
45 
39 
35J 
56| 
48J 
19 
27J 
19 
60 
22 
31 
16 
12i 
13 
52i 
34i 



l,581i 
50 



Number of units of- 



English 

Latin , 

History , 

Commercial course , 

German , 

Algebra , 

Geometry 

Manual training 

Physics ■ 

Domesticscience 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Drawing 

Sewing 

Normal subjects 

Agriculture , 

Botany 

French , 

Physical geography 

Music , 

Civics , 

Physiology , 

Zoology 

Education , 

Other subjects 

Total 

Number of schools reporting 



State — Continued. 



Nebras- 
ka. 



168 

1561 

123i 

95J 
117J 

75J 

72 

37J 

48 

28 

m 

25J 
11 
14 
62 
38 
26i 
6 
22 
20i 
22 

m 

5i 
26 
13i 



1,265J 
49 



North 
Dakota. 



104 
75 
62i 
S^ 
55 
35i 
36 
43 
24 
23i 
18^ 
27 
17 
28i 
11 
17 
18 
3 
12 

Hi 
14 

91 

8 
15 



762 

28 



Ohio. 



568 

552J 

378 

387 

411 

239 

220i 

120 

147 

67 
128i 

54i 
111 

50 

m 

55i 
65i 
105i 
73J 
50 

37J 

21§ 

5^ 

70i 



4,007 
147 



Okla- 
homa. 



691 

66 

59 

50 

36 

27J 

24 

25 

16 

21 

lU 

20| 

m 

2i 

7i 

8 

1 
11 
lOJ 

3 

4i 
2 

5J 



517 
16 



South 
Dakota. 



74 
59 
47 
38 
45 
26 
27 
24 
16 

m 

13 
9 
5J 

^ 

7i 
11 

4 
10 

6 

7J 

7 

4i 

5 



479 
18 



Wiscon- 
sin. 



361§ 
293i 
272^ 
296 
230 
118J 
109 
148 
92 
1301 

5n 

78 

27 

69 

36 

52 

63i 

241 

55J 

19 

39 

36J 

lOJ 

29| 

32 



Total. 



3,500 

3,072 

2,539 

2,446 

2,256 

1,390J 

l,275i 

1,264§ 

875 

810 

689J 

682 

684 

651i 

642J 

527 

537^ 

450 

457 

4191 

398i 

312J 

242i 

220i 

376i 



2,675 

87 



26, 7191 
869 



112 



STUDY OP COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Tablr XLIX — Continued. 



Number of units of— 



English 

Latin 

History 

Commercial course . . 

German 

Algebra 

Geometry 

Manual trainiug 

Physics 

Doinesticscienee 

Chemistry 

Cooking. ! 

Drawing 

Sewing 

Normal subjects 

Agriculture 

Botany 

French 

Physical Geography. 

Music 

Civics 

Physiology , 

Zoology 

Education 

O ther subjects , 

Total , 

Number of schools re- 
porting , 



Population. 



Under 
2,500. 



2,501- 
5,000. 



685 
568 
47U 
328 
383J 
270 
251i 
166 
1741 
129A 
108* 
123J 
57 
105J 
212J 

mi 

106 
27i 
80 
69i 
86i 
61 
30i 
64i 
71 



4,805 
184 



883i 

787i 

621J 

507J 

523i 

349 

326i 

242J 

221 

193i 

148 

144 

94 

134 

183 

159 

128i 

36 

117 

82 

95J 

69J 

51i 

72J 

57* 



6,223 
223 



5,001- 
7,500. 



462 

427J 

344 

340 

289i 

184" 

171J 

129J 

114 

96 

98i 

72 

52 

7U 

75' 

74 

66 

20 

61J 

44 

53 

32 

30 

29 

41i 



3,378 
118 



7,501-- 
10,000. 



324i 

296J 

252^ 

260 

226 

129 

120 

1091 

774 

75i 

70 

69i 

60 

60 

46^ 

36 

53 

27 

36J 

48j 

34i 

27 

24 

16 

29i 



2,508 
83 



10,001- 
15,000. 



277 

259i 

210 

238i 

185i 

105' 

lOlJ 

115J 

68 

82 

62i 

70 

57J 

68 

54.1 

40j 

43i 

34' 

m 

31J 

30 

25 

22J 

13 

33 



2, 270J 



15,001- 
50,000. 



409 
357 
309 
472 
270 
157 
144 
210 

9Si 
122 

94i 

93i 

784 

84' 

35 

32 

68| 

74 

54.1 

47 

45J 

37 

^n 
m 

53 



3, 400J 
91 



50,001 and 
over. 



459 

376 

330i 

300 

379 

196J 

160i 

291^1 

12U 

nil 

113 
109J 
285 
128i 

36 

11 

72 
231i 

65 

97 

53i 

61 

42* 

12" 

91 



4, 134J 
102 









Enrollment 








Number of units of—. 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 and 
over. 


Total. 




347 

293 

238 

129 

215 

145* 

I29i 

59i 

74 

48* 

62' 

45 

44 

49J 

244 

39| 

44 

73 

32 

32i 

36 

24i 

14^ 

164 

324 


1,3301 
1,1584 
940| 
675 
783J 
524 
489 
3204 
336' 
258* 
2084 
207' 
129 
179i 
264^ 
237* 
199J 
73| 
168 
128 
1524 
105' 
73 

108^^ 
1244 


697 

634 

520i 

55 li 

438 

2714 

2504 

242 

175 

165 

146i 

136 

95 

120i 

1824 

1304 

101' 

32 

90* 

63 

81i 

54 

411 

44 

49 


5951 

544 

447 

568 

4131 

2351 

2184 

270' 

149 

1631 

1341 

138 

121 

131 

123 

94 

1001 

75 

81 

81* 

65' 

56 

51 

341 

65 


3064 

2651 

2341 

336 

2431 

1211 

1091 

176 

811 

103 

81 

87 

127 

97 

25 

15 

541 

881 

48 

66 

39 

35 

33 

91 

47 


211* 

166 

149* 

183| 

157* 

88' 

751 

193* 

661 

65* 

54' 

66 

166 

69 

21 

74 

371 

108 

374 

45 

23 

35* 

27' 

64 

57* 


3,488 




3,061 


History 


2,530 


Commercial course 


2,443 


German 


2,251 




1,386 


Geometry 


1,272* 


Manual training 


1,2611 


Physics 


872 




804 




686* 




679 


Drawing 


682 


Sewing 


6461 




6401 




524 


Botany 


537 


French 


450 


Physical geography 


457 


Music 


416 




397 




310 




240 




2191 


Other subjects 


3751 






Total 


2,249 
93 


9, 174J 
345 


5,312i 
173 


4,9554 
145' 


2,830 
69 


2,108 
41 


26, 629* 


Number of schools reporting 


866 



Table L, derived from Table XLIX, is a table of percentages and 
is consequently superior for purposes of comparison. We shall there- 
fore pass to it. It is read as follows: 13.3 per cent of the units of 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



113 



work given in the 122 schools reporting from Illinois are English, 
10.7 per cent Latin, 9.1 per cent history, and so on. 



Table L. 



Per cent of units of— 



State. 



Illinois. 



Indiana. 



Iowa. 



Kansas. 



Michi- 
gan. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Mis- 
souri. 



English 

Latin 

History 

Commercial course. 

German 

Algebra 

Geometry 

Manual training 

Physics 

Domestic science 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Drawing 

Sewing 

Normal subjects — 

Agriculture 

Botany 

French 

Physical geography 

Music 

Civics 

Physiology 

Zoology 

Education 

other subjects 



13.3 
10.7 
9.1 
9.6 
8.0 
5.0 
4.6 
5.8 
3.1 
2.7 
2.8 
2.4 
4.4 
2.5 
.6 
.8 
1.8 
2.4 
1.6 
2.0 
1.5 
1.7 
1.7 



12.8 
11.1 
9.8 
8.0 
10.4 
5.0 
4.8 
4.6 
3.1 
3.5 
2.7 
3.2 
3.6 
3.2 
.2 
1.2 
2.5 
1.4 
1.2 
3.1 
1.5 
.7 
.7 
.1 
1.6 



12.6 
12.1 
8.6 
7.1 
7.2 
5.3 
4.7 
5.2 
3.3 
4.0 
1.4 
3.6 
1.2 
2.6 
7.0 
2.2 
1.9 
.4 
1.6 
1.1 
1.6 
1.5 
1.1 
1.9 



11.1 
10.6 
9.4 
9.1 
7.4 
4.9 
4.7 
4.3 
3.3 
3.1 
1.5 
2.8 
1.8 
2.8 
7.4 
2.9 
2.7 
.5 
1.4 
1.9 
1.7 
1.7 
.6 
1.3 
1.1 



13.4 

10.9 

10.6 

11.7 

8.4 

5.6 

4.8 

4.0 

3.3 

2.2 

3.4 

1.9 

2.5 

2.1 

.8 

2.0 

2.2 

2.5 

2.4 

1.4 

1.1 

.7 

1.1 

.1 



11.6 
10.1 
7.6 
7.2 
6.4 
4.3 
4.2 
7.6 
2.8 
4.0 
2.8 
3.6 
2.4 
3.5 
6.3 
4.6 
1.8 
1.1 
1.4 
1.0 
1.5 
1.1 
1.0 
.1 
2.0 



12.6 
11.6 
10.5 
5.8 
8.4 
5.7 
4.9 
3.6 
3.0 
2.9 
2.5 
2.3 
3.6 
3.1 
1.2 
1.7 
1.3 
3.8 
1.4 
2.0 
1.0 



3.3 
2.2 



Per cent of units of- 



State. 



Ne- 
braska. 



North 
Dakota. 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



South 
Dakota. 



"Wis- 
consin. 



English 

Latin 

History 

Commercial course. 

German 

Algebra 

Geometry 

Manual training 

Physics 

Domestic science. . . 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Drawing 

Sewing 

Normal subjects 

Agriculture 

Botany 

French 

Physical geography 

Music 

Civics 

Physiology 

Zoology 

Education 

other subjects 



13.2 
12.3 
9.7 
7.5 
9.2 
6.0 
5.7 
3.0 
3.8 
2.2 
3.1 
2.0 

.9 
1.1 
4.9 
3.0 
2.1 

.5 
1.8 
1.6 
1.8 
1.0 

.4 
2.1 
1.1 



13.7 
10.0 
8.2 
11.0 
7.2 
4.7 
4.7 
5.6 
3.2 
3.1 
2.4 
3.5 
2.2 
3.7 
1.4 
2.2 
2.4 
.4 
1.6 
1.5 
1.8 
1.2 
1.1 
2.0 
1.2 



14.3 

13.9 

9.4 

9.7 

10.3 

6.0 

5.5 

3.0 

3.7 

1.7 

3.2 

1.3 

2.8 

1.2 

.4 

1.4 

1.6 

2.6 

1.8 

1.2 

1.8 

.9 

.5 

.1 

1.7 



13.4 

12.7 

11.3 

9.6 

7.0 

5.3 

4.7 

4.8 

3.1 

4.1 

2.2 

4.0 

2.0 

3.4 

.5 

1.5 

1.6 

.2 

2.1 

2.0 

1.5 

.6 

.9 

.4 

1.1 



15.5 
12.3 
9.7 
7.9 
9.4 
5.4 
5.6 
5.0 
3.3 
3.7 
2.7 
1.9 
1.2 
2.0 

.9 
1.6 
2.3 

.8 
2.1 
1.3 
1.6 
1.5 

.9 

.3 
1.1 



13.4 

11.0 

10.1 

11.1 

8.5 

4.5 

4.1 

5.5 

3.4 

4.9 

L9 

2.9 

1.0 

2.6 

1.4 

2.0 

2.4 

.9 

2.1 

.7 

1.5 

1.4 

.4 

1.1 

1.2 



80790°— IS 



114 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table L — Continued. 



Per cent of units of- 



Population. 



Under 
2,500 



2,501- 
5,000 



5,001- 
7,500 



7,501- 
10,000 



10,001- 
15,000 



15,001- 
50,000 



English 

Latin 

Historj' 

Commercial course. 

German 

Algebra 

Geometry 

Manual training 

Physics 

Domestic science..., 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Drawing 

Sewing 

Normal subjects 

Agriculture 

Botany 

French 

Physical geography 

Music 

Civics 

Physiology 

Zoology 

Education 

Other subjects , 



14.3 
11.8 
9.8 
6.8 
8.0 
5.6 
5.2 
3.5 
3.6 
2.7 
2.3 
2.6 
1.2 
2.2 
4.4 
3.6 
2.2 
.6 
1.7 
1.4 
1.8 
1.3 
.6 
1.3 
1.5 



14.2 

12.7 

10.0 

8.1 

8.4 

5.6 

5.2 

3.9 

3.6 

3.1 

2.4 

2.3 

1.6 

2.2 

2.9 

2.6 

2.0 

.6 

1.9 

1.3 

1.5 

1.1 

.8 

1.2 

.9 



13.6 

12.6 

10.1 

10.0 

8.5 

5.5 

5.1 

3.8 

3.4 

2.8 

2.9 

2.1 

1.5 

2.1 

2.2 

2.2 

2.0 

.8 

1.8 

1.3 

1.6 

1.0 

.9 

.9 

1.3 



12.8 
11.7 
10.0 
10.3 
8.9 
5.1 
4.8 
4.4 
3.1 
3.0 
2.8 
2.8 
2.4 
2.4 
1.9 
1.5 
2.1 
1.1 
1.5 
2.0 
1.4 
1.1 
1.0 
.7 
1.2 



12.1 
11.4 
9.2 
10.4 
8.2 
4.7 
4.5 
5.1 
3.0 
3.6 
2.8 
3.1 
2.6 
3.0 
2.4 
1.8 
1.9 
1.5 
1.9 
1.4 
1.3 
1.1 
1.0 
.6 
1.5 



12.0 
10.5 
9.1 
13.8 
8.0 
4.6 
4.2 
6.2 
2.9 
3.6 
2.8 
2.8 
2.3 
2.5 
1.0 
.9 
2.0 
2.2 
1.6 
1.4 
1.3 
1.1 
1.2 
.4 
1.6 



Per cent of imits of- 



English 

Latin 

History 

Commercial course.. 

German 

Algebra 

Geometry 

Manual training 

Physics 

Domestic science. . . 

Chemistry 

Cooking 

Drawing 

Sewing 

Normal subjects 

Agriculture 

Botany 

French 

Physical geography 

Music 

Civics 

Physiology , 

Zoology 

Education 

Other subjects 



Enrollment. 



1-100 



101-200 



15.3 


14.5 


13.0 


12.6 


10.6 


10.3 


6.6 


7.4 


9.6 


8.5 


6.4 


5.7 


5.8 


5.3 


2.7 


3.5 


3.3 


3.7 


2.2 


2.8 


2.7 


2.3 


2.0 


2.3 


2.0 


1.4 


2.2 


1.9 


1.1 


2.9 


1.8 


2.6 


2.0 


2.2 


3.2 


.8 


1.4 


1.8 


l.S 


1.4 


1.6 


1.7 


1.1 


1.1 


.7 


.8 


.7 


1.2 


1.5 


1.3 



201-300 



13.1 
11.9 
9.8 
10.4 
8.3 
5.1 
4.7 
4.6 
3.3 
3.1 
2.8 
2.6 
1.8 
2.3 
3.4 
2.4 
1.9 
.6 
1.7 
1.2 
1.5 
1.0 



12.0 
11.0 
9.0 
11.4 
8.3 
4.8 
4.4 
5.5 
3.0 
3.3 
2.7 
2.8 
2.5 
2.7 
2.5 
1.9 
2.0 
1.5 
1.6 
1.7 
1.3 
1.1 
1.0 
.7 
1.3 



501-1,000 



10.7 
9.4 
8.2 
11.9 
8.6 
4.3 
3.9 
6.2 
2.9 
3.7 
2.8 
3.1 
4.5 
3.4 
.9 
.5 
1.9 
3.1 
1.7 
2.3 
1.4 
1.3 
1.2 
.4 
1.7 



1.001 
QQ over. 



10.0 
7.9 
7.1 
8.7 
7.4 
4.2 
3.6 
9.1 
2.7 
3.1 
2.6 
3.2 
7.8 
3.3 
1.0 

.4 
1.8 
5.1 
1.8 
2.1 
1.1 
1.7 
1.3 

.3 
2.7 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 115 

13.1 per cent. 

11.5 per cent. 

^^^^^^^■^^^^■■■■^^^^^^^i^^^^Bi^^^^^BBBBBi 

9.5 per cent. 

History ^^^^^^^^^^B^^^^^^^^^^^B^^^^^^^^^M 

9.2 per cent. 

Commercial ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^* 

S.5 per cent. 

German I^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B^B^BBBBB^^^^^^^ 

5.2 per cent. 

Algebra ^■■■■■iMBBB^l^BiMBBI 

4.8 per cent. 

Geometry ^■■■■■■^^^■^^^■■i* 

4.7 per cent. 
Manual training - - i^*****^^^^^^^**^ 
.3.3 per cent. 

Pliysics ■■■iBMi^^Bi^^ 

3.0 per cent. 
Domestic science - - ■■l^B^M^^Bi 
2.6 per cent. , 

Chemistry ■■■■■■^^^* 

2.5 per cent. 

Cooking - ■■■■■■^* 

2.5 per cent. 

Drawing ^■i^l*^** 

2.4 percent. 

Sewing ^^^^■■^B 

2.4 per cent. 

Normal subjects ■■■^^■■B 

2.0 percent. 

Agriculture i^^^B^i* 

2.0 percent. 

Botany - - - ^^^^■■H 

1.7 per cent. 

French i^^^BB 

1.7 per cent. 
Physical geography ^■■■■i 

1.6 per cent. 
Music ^^■■■B 

1.5 per cent. 
Civics ■■■■■ 

1.2 per cent. 
Physiology ^■■1 

.9 per cent. 
Zoology ■■■ 

.8 per cent. 
Education WH^ 

1.4 per cent. 
Other subjects - - - !^^^^ 

Fig. 16 — Per cent of units given in each subject in 1913-14. 

Since the number of comparisons to be made is almost unlimited, 
it must suffice to point out only the most signiJ&cant. For the whole 
association, it is seen that English leads all other subjects with 13.1 
per cent; that is, 13.1 per cent of all the units of work given in the 
schools of the association are English. Latin is second with 11.5 per 
cent, history third with 9.5 per cent, etc. This comparison is shown 



116 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

graphically in figure 16 much more clearly than is possible by the 
use of words. 

A few of the significant variations from the order for the whole 
association as shown by figure 16 should be noted. Enghsh leads 
all the other subjects in every State without exception, in cities of 
all sizes except in those having popidations rangmg from 15,001 to 
50,000, where it is surpassed by commercial subjects, and in schools 
of all sizes except in those having from 501 to 1,000 students, in which 
commercial subjects also rank first. It is interesting to note that, 
while Latin is holding its own in many schools, there is slightly more 
German given in the cities of the largest size than Latin. In every 
other case, however, Latin still leads German. Another interesting 
variation is found in manual training. While for the entire associa- 
tion this subject ranks eighth, in schools of the largest size it ranks 
second. 

As just remarked, English is uniformly high in practically every 
group of schools. There is, however, considerable variation in the 
percentage from State to State, and the percentage steadily decreases 
as the size of city and size of school increases. About the same state- 
ment holds for Latin, history, algebra, geometry, and physics. The 
percentage for commercial subjects varies greatly from State to 
State, from as low as 5.8 per cent in Missouri to 11.7 per cent in 
Michigan, and it increases with the size of city up to the group of 
cities of the largest size, where it drops from 13.8 per cent to 7.2 per 
cent. This is probably due to the presence in the large cities of 
numerous business colleges and private schools which take over this 
feature of the work of the high school. The percentage of manual 
training, drawmg, domestic science, sewing, zoology, and French 
show considerable variation from State to State, and increase with 
the size of city and size of school. There is, however, an interesting 
exception in the case of French which seems to be given quite fre- 
quently in schools of the smallest size. The amount of agriculture 
given ranges among the States from 0.8 per cent in Illinois to 4.6 per 
cent in Minnesota, decreases with the increase of the size of the group 
of cities from 3.6 per cent to 0.3 per cent, and is greater in the schools 
of medium size than in either the very smallest or the larger schools. 
This shows a tendency on the part of the school to meet the needs of 
the commmiity. The case of normal subjects is very similar to that 
of agriculture, and is explamed in the same way. The teachers of the 
rural schools come largely from the high schools of the smaller cities, 
and not from the larger cities. The percentage of educational sub- 
jects varies a great deal from State to State, and decreases more or 
less regularly with the increase of the size of the city and the size of 
the school. The remaining subjects — German, cooking, physical 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



117 



geography, physiology, civics, chemistry, botany, and music— while 
varying to some degree in the various groups of schools are on the 
whole fairly uniform. German is to a slight degree an exception to 
this statement, for its percentage decreases with the increase in the 
size of school. 

In Table LI, English, Latin, and modern foreign languages are 
compared. The percentages are taken from the previous table. The 
table is read thus: 13.3 per cent of the units of work given in the 
schools reporting from Illinois are English, 10.7 per cent Latin, and 
10,4 per cent modern languages, and the total language group repre- 
sents 34.4 per cent. English still ranks first in every State, but Latin 
does not rank second in every State. In Missouri and Illinois there 
are more units of modern languages given than there are of Latin, 
while in Michigan the percentages are equal. In the largest cities 
the modern languages easily lead both English and Latin, as is also 
true in the group composed of schools of the next size smaller. The 
interesting point brought out by the table is the increase of the per- 
centage of units of modern languages with the increase in population 
and enrollment. 

Table LI. 





State. 


Per cent of units of— 


Illinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 




13.3 
10.7 
10.4 


12.8 
11.1 

n.8 


12.6 
12.1 
7.6 


11.1 

10.6 

7.9 


1.3.4 
10.9 
10.9 


11.6 

10.1 

7.5 


12 8 




11 8 


Modem languages 


12 2 






Total languages 


34.4 


35.7 


32.3 


29.6 


35.2 


29.2 


36 4 










State. 


Per cent of units of— 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wi-'- 
consin. 


English 


13.2 
12.3 
9.7 


13.7 

10.0 

7.6 


14.3 
13.9 
12.9 


13.4 
12.7 
7.2 


15.5 
12.3 
10.2 


13 4 


Latin 


U 


Modem languages 


9 4 








Total languages 


35.2 


3L3 


41.1 


33.3 


38.0 


33 8 








Population. 


Per cent of units of — 


Lender 
2,500 


2,5^1- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


in, roi- 
ls, 000 


I5,nni- 
50,00) 


50,001 
and over. 


English 


14.3 
11.8 
8.6 


14.2 
12.7 
9.0 


13.6 
12.6 
9.3 


12.8 
11.7 
10.0 


12.1 
11.4 
9.7 


12.0 
10.5 
10.2 


11 1 


Latin 


9. 1 


Modem languages 


14 8 






Total languages 


34.7 


35.9 


35.5 


34.5 


33.2 


32.7 


35.0 







118 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table LI — Continued. 





Enrollment. 




Per cent of units of— 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


[501-1,000 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 


English 


15.3 
13.0 
12.8 


14.5 
12.6 
9.3 


13.1 
11.9 
8.9 


12.0 
11.0 
9.8 


10.7 
9.4 
11.7 


10.0 

7.9 

12.5 


13 1 


Latin 


11 5 




10.2 






Total languages 


41.1 


36.4 


33.9 


32.8 


31.8 


30.4 


34 8 







Table LII gives a comparison of total science and total mathematics, 
the percentages being taken from Table L. It should be read as 
follows: 12.7 per cent of the total number of units of work given in 
the schools reporting from IDinois are science, 9.6 per cent are mathe- 
matics, and science and mathematics combined give 22.3 per cent. 
The table shows that the amount of science given is comparatively 
uniform from State to State and changes but little with the increase of 
either population or enrollment. Mathematics, on the other hand, 
decreases with the increase of either population or enrollment, and 
seems to be most affected by the latter. 

Table LII. 





State. 


Per cent of units of— 


Illinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


Science 


12.7 
9.6 


10.9 
9.8 


10.8 
10.0- 


11.2 
9.6 


13.1 
10.4 


10.9 

8.5 


9.8 




10.6 






Total science and mathe- 


22.3 


20.7 


20.8 


20.8 


23.5 


19.4 


20.4 










State. 


Per cent of units of — 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 




12.2 
11.7 


11.9 
9.4 


11.7 
11.5 


10.5 
10.0 


12.8 
11.0 


11.6 




8.6 




tics 




Total science and mathema 


23.9 


21.3 


23.2 


20.5 


23.8 


20.2 




Population. 


?«>r cent of units of— 


Under 
2,500. 


2.501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and over. 


Science 


11.7 
10.8 


11.8 
10.8 


12.0 
10.6 


11.6 
9.9 


11.7 
9.2 


11.6 
8.8 


11.5 


Mathematics 


8.6 






. ' Total science and mathe- 


22.5 


22.6 


22.6 


21.5 


20.9 


20.4 


20.1 







STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table LI I — Continued. 



119 





EnroUment. 




Per cent o( units of— 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


601-1,000 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 


Science 


11.2 
12.2 


11.9 
11.0 


11.5 
9.8 


11.4 
9.2 


11.8 
8.2 


11.9 

7.8 


11.7 


Mathematics 


10.0 


Total science and mathe- 


23.4 


22.9 


21.3 


20.6 


20.0 


19.7 


21.7 







In Table LIU the technical subjects for boys — manual training, 
drawing, and agriculture; the technical subjects for girls — cooking, 
domestic science, and sewing; and commercial subjects are com- 
pared. Since it is identical in form with the immediately preceding 
tables, it need not be explained. It wiU be noticed that in some 
States the subjects for boys seem to have the best foothold, while in 
others it is exactly the other way around, and there seems to be but 
little relation between them. Yet, in those parts of the table based 
upon population and enrollment, with but one exception, the per- 
centage favors the subjects for boys; and both the subjects for boys 
and the subjects for girls increase with the population and the 

enrollment. 

Table LIII. 





state. 


rer cent of units of— 


Illinois. 


Indiana. 


Iowa. 


Kansas. 


Michi- 
gan. 


Minne- 
sota. 


Mis- 
souri. 


Technical subjects: 

For boys 


11.0 
7.6 
9.6 


9.4 
9.9 
8.0 


8.6 

10.2 

7.1 


9.0 

8.7 
9.1 


8.5 
6.2 
11.7 


14.6 
11.1 
7.2 


8 9 




8 3 




5.8 






Total technical subjects. . . 


28.2 


27.3 


25.9 


26.8 


26.4 


32.9 


23.0 






State. 


Per cent of units of— 


Ne- 
braska. 


North 
Dakota. 


Ohio. 


Okla- 
homa. 


South 
Dakota. 


Wis- 
consin. 


Technical subjects: 


6.9 
5.3 

7.5 


10.0 
10.3 
11.0 


7.2 
4.2 
9.7 


8.3 
11.5 
9.6 


7.8 
7.6 
7.9 


8 5 


For girls 


10 4 


Commercial course 


11.1 









Tntal techriicfil subjects 


19.7 


31.3 


21.1 


29.4 


23.3 


30 









Population. 


Per cent of units of — 


Under 
2,500. 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and over. 


Technical subjects: 


8.3 
7.5 
6.8 


8.0 
7.6 

8.1 


7.6 

7.0 

10.0 


8.3 
8.2 
10.3 


0.4 
9.7 
10.4 


9.4 
8.9 
13.8 


14.2 


For girls 


8.4 


Commercial course 


7.2 






Total technical subjects. . . 


22.6 


23.7 


34.5 


26.8 


29.5 


32.1 


29.8 



120 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Table LIII — Continued. 





Enrollment. 




Per cent of units of— 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


IjOOl and 
over. 


Total. 


Technical subjects: 


6.5 
6.4 
5.6 


7.5 
7.0 

7.4 


8.8 
8.0 
10.4 


9.9 

8.8 
11.4 


11.2 
10.2 
11.9 


17.3 
9.6 

8.7 


9.2 


For girls 


7.9 




9.2 






Total technical subjects . . . 


18.5 


21.9 


27.2 


30.1 


33.3 


35.6 


26.3 



In Table LIV the four groups of subjects are compared — total 
languages, total science and mathematics, total history and civics, 
and total technical subjects. The total ''other subjects" is also 
given. The table is read in the same way as the previous tables. 



Table LIV 



Per cent of units of- 



Total languages 

Total technical subjects 

Total science and mathematics 

Total history and civics 

Total other subjects 



State. 



Illinois. 



34.4 
28.2 
22.3 
10.6 
4.5 



Indiana. 



35.7 
27.3 
20.7 
11.3 
5.0 



Iowa. 



32.3 
25.9 
20.8 
10.2 
10.8 



Kansas. 



29.6 
26.8 
20.8 
11.1 
11.7 



Michi- 
gan. 



35.2 
26.4 
23.5 
11.7 
3.2 



Minne- 
sota. 



29.2 

32.9 

19.4 

9.1 

9.4 



Missouri. 



36.4 
23.0 
20.4 
11.5 

8.7 



Per cent of units of- 



State. 



Nebras- 
ka. 



North 
Dakota. 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



South 
Dakota. 



"Wiscon- 
sin. 



Total languages 

Total technical subjects 

Total science and mathematics 

Total history and civics 

Total other subjects 



35.2 
19.7 
23.9 
11.5 
9.7 



31.3 
31.3 
21.3 
10.0 
6.1 



41.1 
21.1 
23.2 
11.2 
3.4 



33.3 
29.4 
20.5 
12.8 
4.0 



38.0 
23.3 
23.8 
11.3 
3.6 



33.8 
30.0 
20.2 
11.6 
4.4 





Population. 


Per cent of units of— 


Under 
2,500. 


2,501- 
5,000 


5,001- 
7,500 


7,501- 
10,000 


10,001- 
15,000 


15,001- 
50,000 


50,001 
and over. 


Total languages 


34.7 
22.6 
22.5 
11.6 
8.6 


35.9 
23.7 
22.6 
11.5 
6.3 


35.5 

24.5 
22.6 
11.7 

5.7 


34.5 
26.8 
21.5 
11.4 
5.8 


33.2 
29.5 
20.9 
10.5 
5.9 


32.7 
32.1 
20.4 
10.4 
4.4 


35.0 




29.8 


Total science and mathematics.. 


20.1 
9.3 


Total other subjects 


6.8 








Enrollment. 




Per cent of units of— 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501-1,000 


1,001 
and over. 


Total. 




41.1 
18.5 
23.4 
12.2 
4.8 


36.4 
21.9 
22.9 
12.0 
6.8 


33.9 
27.2 
21.3 
11.3 
6.3 


32.8 

30.1 

20.6 

■ 10.3 

6.2 


31.8 

33.3 

20.0 

9.6 

5.3 


30.4 
35.6 
19.7 
8.2 
6.1 


34.8 


Total technical subjects 


26.3 


Total science and mathematics.. 


21.7 
11.0 


Total other subjects 


6.2 







STUDY OP COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



121 











ENiCJLlSH 












LATIN ► 

MAN. TR. • 

DRAWING 
























































































^ 






















1 




1 
j 








































1 
















1 














































.._ .1 



1-100 



101-200 



201-300 301-500 501-1000 1001- 

ENROLLMENT 
Fig. 17. — Percentages of English, Latin, manual training, and drawing in schools of different enrollments, 



122 STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 

The table shows that science and mathematics and history and 
civics vary but httle from one group of schools to another. The 
great differences occur in the language group and in the technical 
subjects. The percentage of units of language ranges from 29.2 per 
cent in Minnesota to 41.1 per cent in Ohio, a rather wide range; while 
for the technical subjects it ranges from 19.7 per cent in Nebraska to 
32,9 per cent in Minnesota. In a general way, those States which 
exhibit weakness in the one group show strength in the other. The 
languages show but little change with an increase in population, 
while their percentage decreases considerably with the increase in 
the size of the school. The opposite holds true for the technical 
subjects, except that in this case the percentage does not remain 
imchanged with the increase in the size of the city, but increases 
more or less constantly with it. 

The relation between enrollment and the percentage of units offered 
in the various subjects is brought out very clearly in figures 17 and 
18. The four curves in figure 1 7 represent the percentages of English, 
Latin, manual training, and drawing given in the six groups of schools 
when they are grouped according to enrollment. The distance above 
-the horizontal line indicates the percentage of units offered, while the 
distance along the horizontal line has been divided into six divisions 
corresponding to the six groups of schools. Figure 18 is of a similar 
character, differing in that the four curves here represent the per- 
centages of units given in total languages, total science and mathe- 
matics, total technical subjects, and total history and civics. 

From the foregoing it is evident that in the smaller schools there 
is a tendency to cling to the more or less traditional subjects; that is, 
those subjects which have come to be generally accepted as the 
proper subjects for a high-school course of study. The innovations 
occur in the large schools. They are the progressive schools. Conse- 
quently from these schools it may be possible to get some idea of the 
trend of the times. It should not be inferred from what has been 
said, however, that the larger schools introduce new subjects at the 
expense of the older subjects, for such is not the case. The large 
school practically always offers as large, and frequently a larger, num- 
ber of units of the older subjects than does the small school, but it 
offers the other subjects also. This causes the percentage of unita 
of the older subjects to drop. The large school offers aU that th» 
smaU school offers and then offers some additional subjects. 



STUDY OU' COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



128 



















TOTAL L 


















TECHNIC 
HISTORY 


AT '^lTTPT 

























































































































































































j 



1-100 



101-200 



301-300 301-500 501-1000 1001- 

ENROLLMENT 
KiG. 18.— Percentage of units given in total languages, total science and mathematics, etc., in schools of 

different enrollments. 



124 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table LV. — Table of medians . 



Median. 



State. 



Colo- 
rado. 



lUi- 
nois. 



Indi- 
ana. 



Iowa. 



Kan- 
sas. 



Michi- 
gan. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Enrollment 

Number of students per class 

Number of students per teacher 

Number of periods taught by super- 
intendent 

Number of periods taught by prin- 
cipal 

Number of periods taught by teacher. 

Number of periods supervised 

Number of weeks of 5 days each in 
school year. 

Number of recitation periods in daily 
program 

Number of minutes in recitation 
period 

Number of daily recitations per 
school 

Salary of teachers 

Salary of principal 

Salary of superintendent 

Value of equipment for physics, com- 
mercial course, chemistry, cooking, 
botany, sewing, zoology, agricul- 
ture 

Number of recitation, laboratory, 
manual training, domestic science, 
and assembly rooms 

Number of volumes in high school 
library exclusive of Government 
reports and encyclopedias 



$1,032 
$1,550 
$1,950 



$3,250 
13 

807 



220 

21.5 

20 



43 

66 
$1,103 

$1,825 
$1,983 



$3, 470 

17 

797 



243 

18.5 
19 



,400 
,825 



,695 

15 

606 



216 
20 
19 



$1,142 
$1,650 



$2,255 

15 

531 



190 

26 
20 



40 

54 

$797 
$1,283 
$1,694 



$2,240 

13 

557 



217 
19 
20 



42 

57 

$874 
$1,325 
$1,857 



$2,890 

15 

820 



195 
20 
17 



40 

66 

$960 

$1,183 

$1,893 



$2,885 

16 

919 



Median. 



Enrollment 

Number of students per class 

Number of students per teacher 

Number of periods taught by superintendent. 

Number of periods taught by principal 

Number of periods taught by teacher 

Number of periods supervised 

Number of weeks of 5 days each in school year. 

Number of recitation periods in daily program. 

Number of minutes in recitation period 

Number of daily recitations per school 

Salary of teachers 

Salary of principal 

Salary of superintendent 

Value of equipment for physics, commercial 
course, chemistry, cooking, botany, sewing, 
zoology, agricultiu-al 

Number of recitation, laboratory, manual 
training, domestic science, and assembly 
rooms 

Number of volumes in high school library ex- 
clusive of Government reports and encyclo- 
pedias 



State. 



Mon- 
tana. 



$1,238 
$2,050 
$2,250 



,595 

18 

811 



Ne- 
braska. 



148 

19 

20 

1 

4 

5 

6 

36 

7 

40 

36 

$752 

1,020 

1,663 



$1,705 

10 

313 



North 
Dakota 



106 
15.5 
12 
1 
4 
5 
5 

36 
7 

42 

37 

$853 

$1,228 

$1,775 



$2,500 



781 



Ohio. 



Okla- 
homa. 



235 

22 

23 



3 

5 

4 

36 

7 

43 

63 

,008 

,306 

,725 



,070 
12 



192 
19 
21 

3 
5 
6 
36 
7 

42 

49 

$797 

1,375 

2,700 



$2,715 

13 

506 



South 
Dakota. 



156 

19 

16 

1 

3 

5 

6 

36 

8 

43 

46 

$868 

$1,266 

$1,750 



$2,555 

11 

1,018 



Median. 



Enrollment 

Number of students per teacher 

Number of periods taught by superintendent. 

Number of periods taught by prmcipal 

Salary of teachers 

Salary of principal 

Salary of superintendent 







Population. 




Under 


2,501- 


5,001- 


7,501- 


10,001- 


15,001- 


2,500 


5,000 


7,500 


10,000 


15,000 


50,000 


126 


176 


210 


273 


335 


. 459 


17 


19 


20 


20 


21 


21 


2 


1 














4 


4 


3 


3 


2 


1 


$723 


$765 


8793 


$861 


$906 


$970 


$1,058 


$1,140 


$1,292 


$1,445 


$1,587 


82,005 


$1,628 


$1,750 


$1,950 


$2,000 


$2,290 


$2,700 



STUDV OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 
Table LV. — Table of medians — Continued. 



125 





Enrollment. 


Median. 


1-100 


101-200 


201-300 


301-500 


501- 
1,000 


1,001 
and 
over. 


Total. 
















200 


Number of students per class 


12.5 
11 
1 
4 
4 



17 
18 
1 
4 
5 
4 


19.5 
21 

3 
5 
5 


21 
22 

2 
5 
6 


22 
22 


5 
8 


24 
26 


5 
13 


20 




20 


Number of periods taught by superintendent. 
Number of periods taught by principal 



3 


Number of periods supervised 


« 


Number of weeks of 5 davs each in school year. 


36 


Number of recitation periods in dailv program. 














7 


Number of minutes in recitation period 














42 


Number of daily recitations per school 

Salary of teachers 


27 


34 


50 


72 


122 


227 


59 
919 


Salary of principal 














$1,358 


Salary of superintendent 














$1,821 
$2, 750 


Value of equipment for physics, commercial 
course, chemistry, cooking, botany, sewing. 


$2,085 

8 

550 


$1,985 

11 

535 


$2,600 

14 

658 


$3,875 
20 
818 


$6,565 

30 

1,288 


$10,755 

50 

2,241 


♦Jumber of recitation, laboratory, manual 
training domestic science, and assembly 
rooms 


13 


Number of volumes in high school library ex- 
clusive of Government reports, and encyclo- 
pedias .... 


653 







SLTMMARY. 

Although it is impossible to construct a table that would give 
anything like a complete summary of the facts brought out in the 
investigation, Table LV does represent a partial summary. The 
table is based upon medians. Consequently, since many of the 
features of the investigation can not be satisfactorily represented 
by medians without greatly increasing the bulk of the table, they 
are not found in this table. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind 
that the median gives only the central tendency of a series of variants, 
and its value, when completely isolated from the series for which it 
stands, is partly diminished. The fact that the median concerning 
a certain item is low for some particular group of schools does not 
mean that all the schools in the group are weak in that feature. It 
means that the majority of the schools are weak, but nothing more. 

The table is read as follows: Beginning with the second column 
instead of the first, since Colorado is not consistently represented, we 
read that for the schools reporting from Illinois, the median enroll- 
ment is 220, the median number of students per class 21.5, the median 
number of students per teacher 20, etc. 

In general it may be said that in matters of material equipment, 
library facilities, and salary of teachers, the large schools are superior 
to the small schools; while the small schools adhere more closely to 
the standards set up by the association regarding the number of stu- 
dents per teacher and size of classes. Owing to the larger salaries 
paid in the large cities, the instructorial staff here is found to be 



126 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 



composed of more experienced teachers and is more stable so far as 
tenm"e is concerned. In experimenting along educational lines, in 
trying out new ideas, the large schools take the lead. As a general 
rule, they are the progressive schools. 

For the piu-pose of making a comparison among the States con- 
cerning salaries, material equipment, and library facilities, Table 
LVI has been prepared. It is based upon medians taken from the 
preceding table. The method adopted was to rank the 15 States from 
highest to lowest for each of the six items represented in the table. 
It is understood when read thus: The schools of Montana rank first 
in the median salary paid to teachers, that is, the median salary of 
teachers is higher in Montana than in any other State; they rank 
first in median salary paid to principals, second in salary of superin- 
tendents, etc. 

Table LVI. 



The States are ranked from highest to 
lowest according to median- 



Mon- 
tana. 



Illinois, 



Colo- 
rado. 



Minne- 
sota. 



Michi- 
gan. 



Wis- 
consin. 



Indi- 
ana. 



Okla- 
homa. 



Salary of teachers 

Salary of principal 

Salary of superintendent 

Value of material equipment 

Number of recitation rooms, labora- 
tory rooms, etc 

Number of volumes in high-school 
library 



7 
5 
8 
10 

5i 
10 



Total. 



18 



36J 



Hi 



45J 



51 



The States are ranked from highest to lowest 
according to median- 



Salary of teachers 

Salary of principal 

Salary of supermtendent 

Value of material equipment 

Number of recitation rooms, laboratory rooms, 
etc. 



Nimiber of volumes in high-school library 

Total 



Ohio. 



Hi 
13 



52J 



Mis- 
souri. 



2 
11 
15 

5 

llj 



53i 



South 
Dakota. 



North 
Dakota. 



Kan- 
sas. 



Iowa. 



14 
14 
14 
13 

5i 
12 



72i 



Ne- 
braska. 



By adding the figures representing the rankings of each State for 
the six items we get a final ranking in which Montana is first, Illinois 
second, Colorado third, etc. This final ranking, however, should not 
be taken too seriously, because the figures do not tell all of the truth. 
In the first place, the schools in one State may have much smaller 
enrollments than those in another. The former group of schools 
would consequently not require so much equipment per school as the 
latter to be equally well equipped. In the second place, the number 
of schools reporting from Montana, Colorado, Oklahoma, South 
Dakota, and North Dakota is comparatively small in each case. 
These States are therefore represented in the association by only a 
small proportion of their schools and they are the best. This is espe- 



STUDY OF COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS. 127 

cially true concerning Montana, which is represented by only 16 
schools. In the third place, the rank for the schools of a State may 
be disproportionately raised by the presence of a large city within its 
borders which has a large number of schools, all of which are of a 
high order. This is brought out in the case of Illinois and also of 
Missouri. In Illinois the Chicago schools make the school system of 
lUinois appear better than it reaUy is. In the fourth place, the rank- 
ing is based upon medians, and medians are only partly satisfactory. 

In conclusion it should be said that the requirements of the associa- 
tion are not being met by aU the schools of the association. It might 
be argued that nothing else should be expected, that no system of 
standards could be drawn up which would be met by so large a body 
of schools representing so large a section of the country and such 
varied conditions. However, the association sets up certain stand- 
ards and is supposed to admit only those schools which can and do 
meet these standards. If the association took schools into its mem- 
bership indiscriminately and then attempted by some method of per- 
suasion to get them to conform to certain ideals to which it holds, it 
would be quite a different matter. But that is not the method 
adopted. Furthermore, the standards are not of such a character as 
to prevent the individual public high school from carrying out its 
peculiar mission to its community. It would seem therefore that 
the standards of the association should either be met by the schools 
of the association or revised. 

The final conclusion which is justified by these considerations is 
that the association ought at regular intervals to make an exhaustive 
study of the practices of schools. There would doubtless be great 
advantage in including in such studies aU the secondary schools in 
the territory of the association. Standards could then be set up on 
the basis of the known facts with regard to school practices, and the 
methods of admission to the association could be determined on a 
strictly empirical basis. 



INDEX. 



Accrediting colleges and universities, standards, 5-8. 

Admission requirements, approved colleges and universities, 12-14. 

Apparatus, scientific, high schools, 97-100. 

Classes, high schools, size, 47-51. 

Colleges and universities, admissions, 12-14; control, 12; degrees, 17-18; denomi- 
national support, 12; educational organization, 12; faculties, statistics, 22-24; 
graduate study, 18-19; hours of instruction, 25; list, 9-11; material equipment, 
25-28; preparatory departments, 19; ranking of high-school students, 88-92; regis- 
tration of students, 14; report, 5; requirements for graduation, 16-17; special and 
irregular students, 15-16; standards of accrediting, 5-8. See also Junior colleges; 
Normal schools; and Teachers' colleges. 

Colorado, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Commission, report of officers, 8-9. 

Conditions, admission of students with, in colleges and universities, 13. 

Counts, G. S., Approved high schools of the North Central Association of Colleges and 
Secondary Schools, 31-127. 

Courses of study, high schools, 106-125. 

Degrees, colleges and universities, 17-18. 

Denominational support, educational institutions, 12. 

Equipment, colleges and universities, 25-28. 

Faculties, colleges and universities, 22-25. 

Graduate study, colleges and universities, 18-19. . 

Graduation (high schools), highest and lowest ranking students, 87-88; number of 
units reqiiired, 84-85. 

Graduation requirements, colleges and universities, 16-17. 

High schools, courses of study, 106-125; distribution of students in four years, 42-47; 
distribution of work, 72-80; enrollment, 39-41; grade required for jjassiug and for 
recommendation to college, 86-87; graduation, number of units required, 84-85; 
highest and lowest ranking students, graduating class, 87-88; length of school year, 
81-84; libraries, 100-104; location, statistics, 36-39; material equipment, 93-106; 
number of students per teacher, 51-55; occupations of graduates, 92-93; ranking 
of students who go to college, 88-92; scientific apparatus, 97-100; size of classes, 
47-51; statistical study, 31-127; superintendents' salaries, 65; teachers' salaries, 
58-64; teachers' training and experience, 55-60. 

Illinois, approved colleges and universities, 10-11. 

Indiana, approved colleges and universities, 10. 

Iowa, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Judd, C. H., report on the approved colleges and nniversities of the North Central 
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, 5-30. 

Junior colleges, systems of rating, 9. 

Kansas, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Libraries, cities, 105-106; high schools, 100-104. 

Michigan, approA'ed colleges and universities, 10. 

Minnesota, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

80790°— 15 9 129 



130 INDEX. 

Missouri, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Montana, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Nebraska, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Normal schools, unclassified list, 11. 

North Dakota, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Ohio, approved colleges and universities, 10. 

Oklahoma, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Preparatory departments, colleges and universities, 19. 

Principals, salaries, high schools, 66-70. 

Professional schools, colleges and universities, 12. 

Salaries, principals. See Principals, salaries. 

Salaries, superintendents. See Superintendents, salaries. 

Salaries, teachers'. See Teachers' salaries. 

School year, length, high schools, 81-84. 

South Dakota, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Special departments, approved colleges and universities, 12. 

Standards of accrediting, colleges and universities, 5-8. 

Statistical blank, high schools, 31-34. 

Statistical inquiry, form of blank, 6-8. 

Students, admission to colleges and universities, 13; distribution of high school, 
42^7; number of high school, per teacher, 51-55; registration in colleges and uni- 
versities, 14-15; special and irregular in colleges and universities, 15-16. 

Superintendents, salaries, high schools, 65-72. 

Teachers (high schools), number of students per, 51-55; training and experience, 
55-60. 

Teachers' colleges, unclassified, 11. 

Teachers' salaries, high schools, 58-64, 67-68. 

Term. See School year. 

Universities. See Colleges and universities. 

Wisconsin, approved colleges and universities, 11. 

Work, high schools, distribution, 72-80. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note. — With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of tfee Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
In coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

WUliam N. Hailmann. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. lAst of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester, 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

♦No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
*No. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the oflBces of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
*No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. The teaching stall of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thomdike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 190S. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1907. 
♦No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
♦No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

♦No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

*No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1. 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
♦No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 50 cts. 
♦No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 cts. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 



II BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. 

19H. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. Sets. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 6 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
fNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathem^ics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 

No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 190S-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
♦No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ajres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. Harlan Updegraff. 20 cts. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

*No. 1. A course ofstudy for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F.Mutchler and W.J. Craig. 5 cts. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. Sets. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. , 

*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 

*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. 5 cts. [Later publication, 1913, No. 1 J. 10 cts.] 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. ICilpatric::. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission oa the teachiaj of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics, No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
*No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
*No. IS. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. Sets. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegrail and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 
*No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. G. Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. III. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History oi public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
*No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Waie County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Chas. Goldziher. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
*No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. Sets. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially sup;3orted by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
*No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 
*No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 
*No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1913. 



BULiLETIN OF THE BUKEAU OF EDUCATION. Ill 

♦No. 0. Agricultural iastruct ion in high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenks. lOcts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. IScts. 

♦No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

tNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

fNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

tNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

♦No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

♦No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efficiency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

♦No. 14. Agficultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

♦No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

♦No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in atjrpical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
♦No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
♦No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
♦No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
♦No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
♦No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., forthestudy of ruralsociolo^y. E.C, 

Branson. 10 cts. 
♦No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States Georg Kersehensteiner. 

5 cts. 
♦No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5ct;. 
tNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

♦No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
♦No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
♦No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
♦No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 
tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
♦No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
♦No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
♦No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
♦No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39 Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Ilailmann. 
♦No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
♦No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. II. S. Browne. 
♦No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
♦No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
♦No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

♦No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyas. Dots. 
♦No 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and Adams Phillips. 

No 50. The Fitchburg plan »f cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 
♦No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
♦No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. Sets. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, October 1, 1909, to October 1. 1912. 

Jamesi C. Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 
♦No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 15 cts. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. BibUography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

♦No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
♦No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfleld. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. R. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1914. 
*No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the Unijed States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
*No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 50 cts. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flaimagan. 

No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. 11. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 

No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home— Part I. General statement. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part II. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of cmrent educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of ciirrent educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahaa. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Maimy.. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural-school teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

• 
1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 

No. 4. The health of school children. W. H. Heck. 

No. 5. Organization of State departments of education. A. C. Monahan. ' 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 7 WHOLE NUMBER 631 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS 
IN THE UNITED STATES 



BY 



SAMUEL PAUL CAPEN 

SPECIALIST IN HIGHER EDUCATION. BUREAU OF EDUCATION 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFHCE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAT BE PROCUEEX) FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

■WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

15 CENTS PER COPY 
V 



CONTENTS 



Letter of transmittal 5 

Accredited secondary school defined 7 

Unit defined 8 

Variations in requirements of accrediting agencies 8 

Methods of accrediting 9 

Contents of the bulletin 10 

Part I.— State lists 13 

Part II. — Lists of accrediting associations 76 

The commission on accredited schools of the Southern States of the Asso- 
ciation of Colleges and Preparatory Schools of the Southern States 76 

New England College Entrance Certificate Board 80 

North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. 84 

Part III .■ — Lists of certain private institutions 93 

Schools in Washington, D. C, accredited by George Washington Univer- 
sity, October 13, 1914 93 

Schools affiliated with the Catholic University of America, June, 1914 93 

Accredited by the University of Chicago, Chicago, 111., June, 1914 95 

Affiliated with Tulane University of Louisiana, October 1, 1914 99 

Accredited by Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., June, 1914. ... 99 

Schools in Maryland accredited by St. Johns College, October, 1914 100 

Schools outside of New England accredited by Mount Holyoke College, Octo- 
ber 3, 1914 r 100 

Schools sending students to Wellesley College on certificate in September, 

1914 103 

Private secondary schools in Maryland and Pennsylvania (not listed else- 
where in the bulletin) belonging to the Association of OoUeges and Prepara- 
tory Schools of the Middle States and Maryland and having the privilege of 

certificating their graduates to various colleges of high standing 106 

3 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Department of the Interior, 

Bureau of Education, 

WasTiington, January 19, 1915. 

Sir: On the first of May, 1913, I recommended the pubhcation of 
a pamphlet containmg lists of accredited secondary schools in the 
United States as a bulletin of the Bureau of Education. In my 
letter of transmittal I called attention to the fact that many students 
apply for admission to higher institutions in other States and sec- 
tions than those in which they have received their high-school prepa- 
ration. Many also seek certificates from examining and licensing 
boards, which have no direct means of knowing the standards of the 
schools from which the applicants come. The demand for this 
information led the Bureau of Education to undertake the collec- 
tion and preparation of lists of high schools and academies accred- 
ited by State universities, approved by State departments of educa- 
tion, or recognized by examining and certifying boards. Tlie 
demand proved to be even greater than had been anticipated. The 
edition of the bulletin was soon exhausted, and there have since 
been many requests from college and university officers for copies 
of it, which could not be met. Moreover, changes are made in 
these lists of accredited schools from year to year. For these rea- 
sons, I have requested Dr. S. P. Capen, specialist in higher education 
in the bureau, to revise the pamphlet on a somewhat different 
basis. The revision is contained in the accompanying manuscript 
which I recommend for pubhcation as a bulletin of the Bureau 
of Education. 

Respectfully submitted. 

P. P. Claxton, 

CoTYimissioner. 

The Secretary of the Interior. 

5 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS IN THE 
UNITED STATES. 



The lists of accredited secondary schools which are presented in 
this bulletin are designed to meet the needs of officers charged with 
the admission of new students to secondary schools, colleges, univer- 
sities, professional schools (especially schools of law and medicine), 
normal schools, etc.; of State examining and certifying boards, 
which are concerned with the status of secondary schools located at 
a distance; and of parents who may want to know about the high 
schools of any particular State or section. 

The first issue of the bulletin was pubhshed in 1913. The great 
annual increase in the number of secondary schools (in 1910-11 there 
were 12,213; m 1911-12 the number had grown to 13,268; in 1912-13 
it had reached 13,445), together with the sudden changes in standing, 
generally for the better, of many secondary schools in all parts of the 
country, necessitate frequent revisions. A few new fists have been 
added, and certain minor changes have been made in the arrange- 
ment of the bulletin. These are mentioned below. For the rest, the 
essential part of the introduction to the previous issue is reprinted 
here. 

ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOL DEFINED. 

An "accredited secondary school," as the term is used in this 
bulletin, is a school which is equipped to prepare students for col- 
leges reqmring at least 14 units for imconditioned admission and 
which has been investigated or approved for this purpose by one of 
the following agencies: A State officer of education, a university or 
coUege inspector or committee on admissions, an officer or committee 
of an accrediting association. Except in the case of certain of the 
Southern States whose high-school courses are based upon seven 
years of elementary training, it is understood that these 14 units 
represent secondary work above the standard eight-grade elementary- 
school course. It is assumed that the curriculum of an accredited 



8 ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 

school represents four years of 36 or more weeks each; that at least 
three teachers give their whole time to high-school work; ^ and that 
the school keeps up an adequate library and laboratory equipment. 

UNIT DEFINED, 

The following authoritative definition of the word "unit" has been 
made by the National Conference Committee on Standards of Col- 
leges and Secondary Schools, which is composed of representatives 
of the National Association of State Universities, the New England 
CoUege Entrance Certificate Board, the College Entrance Examina- 
tion Board, the Association of Colleges and Preparatory Schools of 
the Middle States and Maryland, the North Central Association of 
Colleges and Secondary Schools, the Association of Colleges and Pre- 
paratory Schools of the Southern States, the New England Associa- 
tion of Colleges and Preparatory Schools, the Carnegie Foundation 
for the Advancement of Teaching, and the United States Commis- 
sioner of Education : 

A unit represents a year's study in any subject in a secondary school, 
constituting approximately a quarter of a full year's work. 

This statement is designed to afford a standard of measurement for the work done 
in secondary schools. It takes — 

(1) The four-year high-school course as a basis and assumes that — 

(2) The length of the school year is from 36 to 40 weeks; that — 

(3) A period is from 40 to 60 minutes in length; and that — 

(4) The study is pursued four or five periods a week; 

but under ordinary circumstances a satisfactory year's work in any subject can not 
be accomplished in less than 120 sixty-minute hours, or their equivalent. Schools 
organized on any other than a four-year basis can nevertheless estimate their work 
in terms of this unit. 

VARIATIONS IN REQUIREMENTS OF ACCREDITING AGENCIES. 

The nmnber of subjects recognized by the various accrediting 
bodies as forming an acceptable part of the college preparatory 
course varies greatly; for example, the subjects recognized by the 
College Entrance Examination Board as permissible in a standard 
high-school course are: 

Units. • Units. 



Spanish 2 

History 4 

Science 4 

Drawing 1 

Music 2 



English up to 3 

Mathematics up to 3| 

Latin 4 

Greek 3 

French 3 

German 3 

On the other hand, there are State universities and privately 
endowed institutions, like Leland Stanford University, which permit 

1 Exceptions are certain schools in the lists of Georgia, New Hampshire, and Vermont which have 
less than tliree teachers, but otherwise conform to the definition and are approved by the State officials. 



INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT. 



great enlargement of the range of electives. The University of 
Minnesota, for example, accepts the following: 



Units. Units. 



English 3-4 

Mathematics 2-3^ 

Latin 2-4 

Greek 2 

French 2-4 

German 2-4 

Spanish 2-4 

Scandinavian 2-4 

History and social science ^6 

Natural science ^6 

Vocational subjects ^-4 



Business arithmetic ^ 

Business law ^ 

Bookkeeping 1-2 

Stenography and typewriting 1-2 

Freehand drawing 2 

Mechanical drawing 2 

Shopwork 2 

Modeling and wood carving 1 

Domestic art and science up to 4 

Agriculture 1-4 

Normal training subjects 1-3 



It will therefore be apparent that the only close correspondence 
among the requirements of the various institutions mentioned in this 
pamphlet is the quantitative one. All specify at least 14 units, 
except the Univei-sity of South Carolina, which admits with 10. 
None requires more than 16 units for admission. 

The requirements of each accrediting agency are briefly stated at 
the head of the list of schools which each accredits. At the head 
of each list of schools accredited by a State university or private 
institution the requirements for admission to the A. B. course are 
summarized. The schools on the accredited list generally have the 
privilege of certificating students to other courses as well. To outline 
the admission requirements for all these courses would consume much 
space and might lead to confusion. The requirements for admission 
to the A. B. course may in each case be considered fairly typical of 
the institution's policy with respect to entrance requirements. 

METHODS OF ACCREDITING. 

Two general methods are in use for carrying on the system of 
accrediting in those States where the State authority embraces 
agencies for higher education. Under the first the inspection of the 
work of the high schools is done through an officer or committee of 
the State university, and the list of acceptable or accredited high 
schools is published in the catalogue of the university and thus made 
available for other institutions within the same State or for institu- 
tions in neighboring States. Under the second, the inspection and 
rating are done by the State superintendent of public instruction, the 
State board of education, or the State education office, acting through 
specially appointed officers. Examples of the former method are 
the Universities of Mchigan, California, and Texas; of the latter 
method, the States of New York, Ohio, and Mnnesota. 

The requirement of the completion of a standard four-year high- 
school course representing at least 14 units for admission to college, 



10 ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 

or as a part of the prescription for admission to professional schools 
or to the practice of professions, has produced a group of organiza- 
tions among whose activities are the coordination of standards of 
secondary education in neighboring States and the compilation of 
lists of accredited secondary schools. Such sectional organizations 
are now at work in the North Central States, the Middle States and 
Maryland, New England, and the Southern States. These organiza- 
tions are purely voluntary and have no legal control over the institu- 
tions which they rate. Tlie influence which they wield, however, 
because of the fact that they focus representative educational opinion 
in their respective sections, is considerable. Occasionally also 
private institutions, like the University of Chicago, have carried on 
their own investigation and accrediting, 

CONTENTS OF THE BULLETIN. 

PART I: STATE LISTS. 

The bulletin is divided into three parts. The first part, as is appro- 
priate, contains lists of schools accredited by State universities and 
State officers of education. Sometimes both the State university 
and the State department of education publish accredited lists. In 
such cases the list of the State university is printed first, and all 
schools accredited by the State education department not included 
in the university list are then added by way of supplement. When 
the State department of education or the State university prints 
lists of liigh schools of different grades, only schools of the first grade 
are included, except in the case of Georgia and Maryland.^ 

Lists from every State except South Dakota are included in Part I. 
In this State neither the State university nor the State department 
of education has attempted during the last year and a half to survey 
the secondary schools with a view to accrediting them for college 
preparatory work. It therefore seemed better to omit South Dakota 
from Part I than to publish a list of accepted schools in that State 
which was admittedly antiquated. South Dakota is in the territory 
covered by the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary 
Schools. The list of this association, Part II, page 92, contains a 
number of South Dakota schools. 

PART n: LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 

Part II contains the lists of the three principal associations which 
undertake to accredit schools. The methods or standards of these 
associations are not identical. The list accredited by each is pre- 
ceded by a statement of the basis upon which it is compiled. 

1 Schools accredited by the University of Georgia in Group II are included in the list published for that 
institution. These schools meet the requirements just outlined, except that they are admitted to the 
certificating privilege with only 2.5 teachers of academic subjects. 

The second group schools of Maryland have been certified to by the superintendent of public instruction 
as fulfilling the definition of an accredited school printed above. 



IlSrTRODUCTORY STATEMENT. 11 

PART III: LISTS OF CERTAIN PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 

With regard to Part III, a special explanation is in order. After 
the publication of the first issue of this bulletin it was found that 
many excellent private schools, especially in the Eastern States, 
which were thoroughly equipped to prepare for college, and indeed 
had annually for many years been sending an entirely satisfactory 
delegation to the best colleges in the country, were omitted from the 
lists of accredited schools of the States in which they were located. 
This was due either to the fact that the States had no State univer- 
sities admitting by certificate or to the failure of the State education 
departments to include private schools in their lists of approved sec- 
ondary institutions. The absence of the names of many of these 
schools from a document as comprehensive in its scope as this publi- 
cation gave rise to false impressions concerning their standmg. It 
seemed desirable to extend the scope of the bulletin so as to secure 
their inclusion. Accordingly the Bureau of Education asked a 
number of colleges and universities admitting on certificate and draw- 
mg students from the States in which private schools had previously 
not received official recognition to submit their own lists of accredited 
schools. Three considerations determined the choice of the higher 
institutions of whom this request was made: First, the policy of 
admission on certificate; second, the area from which each institution 
was known to draw its students; and, third, the recognized high 
standing of each. The lists submitted by the Catholic University of 
America, University of Chicago, George Washington University, 
Johns Hopkins University, St. John's College, Mount Holyoke Col- 
lege, Wellesley College, and Tulane University are printed in full in 
Part III. A-t the end of Part III are printed also the names of those 
schools belonging to the Association of Colleges and Preparatory 
Schools of the Middle States and Maryland which, on account of their 
location, are not on any of the other lists included in the bulletin, but 
which have the privilege of certificating graduates to various colleges 
of high standing. 

The schools are listed alphabetically, according to the towns in 
which they are located. The names of accredited private secondary 
schools and academies are printed in italics. 



PART I.— STATE LISTS. 



ALABAMA. 

Schools fully affiliated with the University of Alabama, April, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 14 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 3 

Latin 3 

Electives 4 



Abbeville— Third District Agricultural School. 
Albertville— Seventh District Agricultural School. 
Alexander City— High School. 
Andalusia— High School. 
Anniston — 

High School. 

Noble Institute. 
Ashland— Clay County High School. 
Athens — 

Greene University School. 

Eighth District Agricultural School. 
Atmore— Escambia County High School. 
Attalla— Etowah County High School. 
Bessemer— High School. 
Birmingham — 

College Training School. 

Central High School. 

Howard Academy. 

Margaret A lien School. 

University High School. 
Blountsville — Ninth District Agricultural School. 
Brewton — CoUegiate Institute. 
Brundidge — Pike County High School. 
Butler— Choctaw County High School. 
Camden — Wilcox County High School. 
Camp Hill— High School. 
Center — Cherokee County High School. 
CenterviUe— Bibb County High School. 
Clio — Barbour County High School. 
Columbia— Houston County High School. 
Columbiana— Shelby County High School. 
CuUman — Cullman County High School. 
Dadeville — Tallapoosa County High School. 
Daphne — Normal School. 
Decatur— High School. 
Demopolis— High School. 
Dothan— High School. 

Double Springs — Winston County High School. 
Eclectic— Elmore County High School. 
Elba— High School. 

El km on t — Limestone County High School. 
Ensley— High School. 
Enterprise— Coffee County High School. 
Eufaula— High School. 
Eutaw— High School. 

Evergreen— Second District Agricultural School. 
Florala- High School. 

Fort Deposit — Lowndes County High School. 
Fort Payne— Dekalb County High School. 
Gadsden — High School. 
Georgiana — High School. 
Greenville — High School. 
Grove Hill— Clarke County High School. 



Guin— Marion County High School. 
Guntersville— Marshall County High School. 
Gurley— Madison County High School. 
Haleyville— High School. 
Hamilton— Sixth District Agricultural School. 
Hartford— Geneva County High School. 
Hartsells— Morgan County High School. 
Headland — Henry County High School. 
Heflin— Cleburne County High School. 
Huntsville — 

High School. 

Goodrich School. 
Jackson— First District Agricultural School. 
Jasper— Walker County High School. 
La Fayette— High School. 
Leighton — Colbert County High School. 
Lincoln — Talladega County High School. 
Lineville — N. E. Alabama Agricultural Institute. 
Marion — J udson Academy . 
Milltown — Chambers County High School. 
Mobile— 

Baker High School. 

High School. 

Knott High School. 

Military Institute. 

University Military School. 
Monroeville — Monroe County High School. 
Montgomery — 

Barnes School. 

Edgar School. 

Sidney Lanier High School. 

University School. 
Moulton — Lawrence County High School. 
MoundviUe — Normal School. 
New Decatur — High School. 
New Market— High School. 
'iiewton— Baptist Collegiate Institute. 
Notasulga — Macon County High School. 
OdenviUe — St. Clair County High School. 
Oneonta — Blount County High School. 
Opelika — Lee County High School. 
Oxford— Calhoun County High School 
Ozark — Dale County High School. 
Piedmont— High School. 
Pineapple — Moore Academy. 
PlantersviUe — Dallas County High School. 
PrattviUe — Autauga County High School. 
Reform — Pickens County High School. 
Roanoke — Handley High School. 
Rockford— Coosa County High School. 
RogersviUe — Lauderdale County High School.- 
Russellville— Franklin County High School. 
Scottsboro— Jackson County High School. 

13 



14 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



Selma— Dallas Academy. 

Sheffield— High School. 

Sylacauga— Fourth District Agricultural School. 

Talladega — High School. 

Thomaston — Marengo County High School. 

Thomasville— High School. 

Thorsby — Institute. 

Tuscaloosa — 

High School. 

University Training School. 



Tuscumbia — 

Deshler Institute. 

High School. 
Tuskegee — High School. 
Union Springs — High School. 
Uniontown — High School. 
Vernon — Lamar County High School. 
Wedowee — Randolph County High School. 
Wetumpka— Fifth District Agricultural School. 
York— Sumter County High School. 



ARIZONA. 



Accredited by the University of Arizona, May, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2J 

History and civics 1 

Science 1 

Foreign languages. . •. 2 

Electives 5J 



Bisbee — High School. 
CUfton— High School. 
Douglas — High School. 

Flagstaff— Northern Arizona Normal School (aca- 
demic department). 
Glendale — High School. 
Globe— High School. 
Jerome — High School. 
Mesa — High School. 
Phoenix— High School. 



Prescott — High School. 
Tempe— 

High School. 

Tempe Normal School of Arizona (academic 
department). 
Thatcher — Gila Academy. 
Tucson — High School. 
Willcox — High School. 
Winslow — High School. 
Yuma — High School. 



ARKANSAS. 



Class A schools approved by the Arkansas State Department of Education and accredited by the Uni- 
versity of Arkansas, May, 1914. 

Units. 

University admission requirements 14 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

History 1 

Electives 8 



Amity — High School. 
Argenta — High School. 
Arkadelphia — High School. 
Ashdown — High School. 
Augusta — High School. 
Bentonville — High School. 
BerryvUle — High School. 
Blytheville— High School. 
Booneville — High School. 
Brinkley — High School. 
Cabot— High School. 
Camden — High School. 
Carlisle— High School. 
Charleston — High School. 
Clarendon— High School. 
Clarksville — 

Arkansas Cumberland College. 

High School. 
Conway — Arkansas State Normal School. 
Corning — High School. 
Cotter— High School. 
Crossett— High School. 
Dardanelle — High School. 
De Queen— High School. 



Dumas — High School. 
El Dorado— High School. 
England — High School. 
Eureka Springs — 

Crescent College Academy. 

High School. 
Fayetteville — 

High School. 

University Training High School. 
Fordyce — High School. 
Forrest City— High School. 
Fort Smith— High School. 
Gentry— High School. 
Green Forest — High School. 
Hamburg— High School. 
Harrison — High School. 
Hazen— High School. 
Helena— High School. 
Hope— High School. 
Hot Springs— High School. 
Huntington — High School. 
Imboden — Sloan Hendriz Academy. 
Jacksonville— High School. 
Jonesboro— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



15 



Junction City— High School. 
Lake Village— High School. 
Little Rock — 

High School. 

Little Rock College. 
Lonoke — High School. 
Magnolia— High School. 
Malvern — High School. 
Mena— High School. 
Monticello — High School. 
MorrUton- High School. 
Mountain Home— J/owntom Home Academy. 
Nashville— High School. 
Paragould— High School. 
Piggott — High School. 
Pine Bluff— High School. 
Pocahontas — High School. 
Portland— High School. 



Prescott— High School. 

Rector— High School. 

Rogers- 
High School. 
Rogers Academy. 

Russellville— High School. 

Siloam Springs— High School. 

Springdale — High School. 

Stamps — High School. 

Stephens— High School. 

Stuttgart- 
High School. 
Training School. 

Texarkana — High School. 

Van Buren— High School. 

Waldron — High School. 

Warren— High School. 

Wynne— High School. 



CALIFORNIA. 



Schools accredited by the University of California for the year 1913-14. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 2 

Mathematics 2 

History and civics 1 

Science 1 

Foreign languages 2 

Additional foreign language, science, or mathematics (or combinations of these sub- 
jects) V 2 

Electives 5 



Alameda — High School. 

Alhambra — City High School. 

Alturas— Modoc County High School. 

Anaheim — Union High School. 

Anderson — Union High School. 

Angels Camp— Bret Harte Union High School. 

Antioch — Riverview Union High School. 

Areata — Union High School. 

Arroyo Grande— Union High School. 

Auburn — Placer County High School. 

Azusa— Citrus Union High School. 

Bakersfield— Kern Coxmty High School. 

Banning — Union High School. 

Belmont — Belmont School. 

Benicia— High School. 

Berkeley- 
High School. 
A-to-Zed School. 
Boone's University School. 
Miss Head's School. 
Preparatory School. 
The Randolph School. 

Bishop — Union High School. 

Bostonia— El Cajon Valley Union High School. 

Boulder Creek — Union High School. 

Brawley— Union High School. 

Brentwood — Liberty Union High School. 

Burlingame — St. Matthew's School. 

Burbank — Union High School. 

Campbell — Union High School. 

Cedarville— Surprise Valley Union High School. 

Centerville — Union High School. 

Ceres — High School. 

Chico — High school. 

Chino — High School. ' 

Claremont— High School. 



Clovis— Union High School. 

Coalinga — Union High School. 

College City — Pierce Joint Union High School. 

Colton— High School. 

Colusa — High School. 

Compton — Union High School. 

Concord — Mount Diablo Union High School. 

Coming — Union High School. 

Corona — High School. 

Covina — Union High School. 

Crescent City— Del Norte County High School. 

Crockett— John Swett Union High School. 

Dinuba — Union High School. 

Dixon — Union High School. 

Dos Palos — Joint Union Hi.rh School. 

Downey — Los Nietos Union High School. 

El Centro — Central Union High School. 

Elk Grove — Union High School. 

El Monte — Union High School. 

Escondido — High School. 

Esparto — Union High School. 

Etna Mills— Etna Union High School. 

Eureka— City High School. 

Exeter — Union High School. 

Fairfield— Armijo Union High School. 

Fallbrook — Union High School. 

Femdale — Union High School. 

Fillmore— Union High School. 

Fort Bragg — Union High School. 

Fortuna— High School. 

Fowler — Union High School. 

Fresno — High School. 

Fullerton— Union High School. 

Gilroy— High School. 

Glendale — Union High School. 

Gonzales— Union High School. 



16 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Grass Valley— High School. 

Gridley— Union High School. 

Hantord— Union High School. 

Hayward — Union High School. 

Healdsburg— High School. 

Hemet— Union High School. 

Hollister— San Benito County High School. 

Hollywood — Immaculate Heart College. 

Holtville— Union High School. 

Huntington Beach— Union High School. 

Huntington Park— Union High School. 

Imperial— Imperial Valley Union High School. 

Inglewood — Union High School. 

lone — Union High School. 

Irvington — Anderson Academy. 

Kingsburg— Joint Union High School. 

Lakeport — Clear Lake Union High School. 

Lemoore — Union High School. 

Lincoln — Union High School. 

Lindsay — High School. 

Livermore — Union High School. 

Lodi — Union High School. 

Lompoc— Union High School. 

Long Beach — Polytechnic High Sehool. 

Lordsburg — 

Bonita Union High Sehool. 

Lordsburg College, Academic Department. 
Los Angeles — 

High School. 

Gardena Agricultural High School. 

Girls' Collegiate School. 

Hollywood High School. 

Harvard School. 

Manual Arts High School. 

Marlborough School. 

Polytechnic High School. 

San Pedro High School. 

Westlake School for Girls. 
Los Bancs — West Side Union High School. 
Los Gatos— High School. 
Madeira — Union High School. 
Martinez — Alhambra Union High School. 
Marysville — High School. 
Mendocino — Mendocino County High School. 
Merced— County High School. 
Mill Valley— Tamalpais Union High School. 
Modesto — High School. 
Monrovia— City High School. 
Montebello— High School. 
Monterey — County High School. 
Morgan Hill— Live Oak Union High School. 
Mountain View— High School. 
Napa— High School. 
National City— High School. 
Nevada City— High School. 
Newman — Orestimba Union High School. 
Nordhofl- Union High School. 
Norwalk — Excelsior Union High School. 
Oakdale — Union High School. 
Oakland- 
High School. 

College of the Holy Names High School. 

Horton School. 

John C. Fremont High School. 

Manual Training and Commercial High School. 
Oleander— Washington Union High School. 
Ontario— Chaffey Union High School. 



Orange — Union High School. 
Orland — Joint Union High School. 
Orosi— Union High School. 
Oroville — Union High School. 
Oxnard — Union High School. 
Paciiic Grove— High School. 
Palo Alto- 
High School. 

Castilleja School. 

Manzanita Hall. 

Miss Harker's School. 
Pasadena — High School. 
Paso Robles— High School. 
Petaluma— High School. 

Piedmont — Miss Ransom and Miss Bridges' School. 
Placerville- El Dorado County High School. 
Pomona— High School. 
Porterville— Union High School. 
Red Bluff— Union High School. 
Redding — Shasta County High School. 
Redlands— High School. 
Redondo — Union High School. 
Redwood City— Sequoia Union High School. 
Reedley — Joint Union High School. 
Richmond — Union High School. 
Riverside — 

Girls' High School. 

Polytechnic High School. 
Sacramento — High School. 
St. Helena— Union High School. 
Salinas — High School. 

San Andreas — Calaveras Countj' High School. 
San Bernardino— High School. 
San Diego — High School. 
San Fernando— Union High School. 
San Francisco — 

Miss Burkes' School. 

California School of Mechanical Arts. 

Cogswell Polytechnical College. 

Girls' High School. 

Hamlin School. 

Lowell High School. 

Mission High School. 

Polytechnic High School. 

St. Rose Academy. 

Trinity School. 

University School. 
Sanger — Union High School. 
San Jacinto — High School. 
San Jose — 

College Park Academy. 

High School. 

Washburn School. 
San Luis Obispo — High School. 
San Mateo — Union High School. 
San Rafael- 
High School. 

Dominican College. 

Hitchcock Military Academy. 

Mount Tanalpais Military Academy. 
Santa Ana— High School. 
Santa Barbara— High School. 
Santa Clara— High School. 
Santa Cruz— High School. 
Santa Maria— Union High School. 
Santa Monica — High School. 
Santa Paula— Union High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



17 



Santa Rosa — 

High School. 

Vrsuline College. 
Santa Ynez — Valley Union High School. 
Sehastopol— Analy Union High School. 
Selma — Union High School. 
Shorb — Ramona Convent of the Holy Names. 
Sonoma— Valley Union High School. 
Sonora — Tuolumne County High School. 
South Pasadena — High School. 
Stockton — High School. 
Susanville — Lassen County High School. 
Sutter — Union High School. 
Tulare— High School. 
Tuolumne— Summerville Union High School. 



Turlock— Joint Union High School. 
Ukiah— Mendocino County High School. 
Vacaville — Union High School. 
Vallejo — High School. 
Ventura— Union High School. 
Visalia — High School. 
Watsonville — High School. 
Whittier — Union High School. 
Williams — Union High School. 
Willits— Union High School. 
Willows — Glenn County High School. 
Winters — Joint Union High School. 
Woodland— High School. 
Yreka— Siskiyou County High School. 



COLORADO. 

Accredited by the University of Colorado, March, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language 4 

History 2 

Science 2 

Electives 2 



Alamosa— High School. 
Arvada— High School. 
Aspen— High School. 
Berthoud— High School. 
Boulder— State Preparatory School. 
Breckenridge— High School. 
Brighton — High School. 
Brush— High School. 
Canon City- 
High School. 

South Canon City High School. 
Castle Rock— Douglas County High School. 
Central Citj— High School. 
Cheyerme Wells— Cheyenne County High School. 
Colorado City— High School. 
Colorado Springs— High School. 
Cripple Creek— High School. 
Delta— High School. 
Denver — 

East Side High School. 

Manual Training High School. 

North Side High School. 

South Side High School. 

W^est Side High School. 

Miss Walcott's School. 

Wolfe Hall. 
Durango — High School. 
Eaton — High School. 
Edgewater— Wheat Ridge High School. 
Florence — High School. 
Fort Collins— High School. 
Fort Morgan— High School. 
Fowler— High School. 
Fruitar— High School. 
Georgetown — High School. 

Glenwood Springs — Garfield County High School. 
Golden— High School. 
Grand Jimction — High School. 
75087°— 15 2 



Greeley— High School. 

Gunnison — Gunnison County High School. 

Holly— High School. 

Holyoke— Phillips Coimty High School. 

Idaho Springs — High School. 

Julesburg— Sedgwick County High School. 

Lafayette— High School. 

La Junta — Otero County High School. 

Lamar — High School. 

Las Animas — Bent County High School. 

Leadville — High School. 

Littleton— High School. 

Longmont — High School. 

Louisville — High School. 

Loveland — High School. 

Manitou — High School. 

Meeker— Rio Blanco High School. 

Monte Vista — High School. 

Montrose — Montrose County High School. 

Ouray — Ouray County High School. 

Palisade — High School. 

Paonia— High School. 

Pueblo- 
High School (DLst. No. 1). 
High School (Dist. No. 20). 

Rifle— High School. 

Rocky Ford— High School. 

Saguache — Saguache County High School. 

Salida— High School. 

Silverton — High School. 

South Canon City— High School. 

Sterling — Logan Coimty High School. 

Telluride— High School. 

Trinidad — High School. 

Victor — High School. 

Walsenburg — Huerfano Coimty High School. 

Windsor— High School. 

Wray— Yuma County High School. 



18 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



CONNECTICUT. 



Schools approved by the Connecticut State Board of Education, January 1, 1915. 

Requirements for approval: Satisfactory building equipment and health provisions; well-adjusted course 
of study; a teaching stafl well qualified in respect of an education, and ability to teach; instruction on the 
high-school plane; adequate wages and upkeep; adaptation to community interests. 



Ansonia— High School. 

Branford— High School. 

Bridgeport— High School. 

Bristol— High School. 

Central Village— Platnfleld High School. 

Chester— High School. 

Clinton — Morgan School. 

Colchester— High School. 

Collinsville — High School. 

Danbury— High School. 

Danielson— Killingly High School. 

Derby— High School. 

Deep River— Saybrook High School. 

East Hartford— High School. 

Essex— High School. 

Glastonbury— High School. 

Greenwich — High School. 

Guilford— High School. 

Hartford— High School. 

Meriden— High School. 

Middletown— High School. 

Naugatuck— High School. 

New Britain— High School. 

New Haven— High School. 

New London — 

Bulkelcy School. 

Manual Training and Industrial School. 

Williams Memorial Institute. 
New Milford— High School. 
Newtown— High School. 
Norwalk— 

Junior High School. 

Senior High School. 
Norwich — Free Academy. 



Portland— High School. 

Putnam — High School. 

North Stonington — Wheeler School. 

Seymour — High School. 

Sharon — High School. 

Shelton — High School. 

Simsbury— High School. 

Southington — Lewis High School. 

South Manchester— High School. 

Stafford Springs— Stafford High School. 

Stamford— High School. 

Stonington — High School. 

Stratford— High School. 

Suffield— High School. 

Terryville — High School. 

Thomaston — High School. 

Thompson— High School. 

Thompsonville— Enfield Public High School. 

Torrington — High School. 

Unionville — High School. 

Vernon — Rockville High School. 

Wallingford— High School. 

Waterbury— High School. 

Watertown— High School. 

West Hartford— High School. 

West Haven — High School. 

Westport — High School. 

Wethersfield — High School. 

Willimantic— Windam High School. 

Windsor — High School. 

Windsor Locks — High School. 

Winsted— Gilbert School. 

Woodbury— High School. 

Woodstock — High School. 



DELAWARE. 

First-grade high schools reported by the Commissioner of Education of Delaware, October 16, 1914. 



Dover — High School. 
Milford— High School. 
Seaford— High School. 



Smyrna — High School. 
Wilmington — High School. 



Schools Accredited by Delaware College, May, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 14 J 

Prescribed units: 

E nglish 3 

Mathematics 2^ 

History 1 

Modern language 1 

Latin 4 

Electives 3 



Dover — 

High School. 

Wilmington Conference Academy. 
Georgetown— High School. 
Lewes— High School. 
Milford— High School. 



Seaford— High School. 
Smyrna — High School. 
Wilmington- 

Friends' School. 

High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



19 



DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

Secondary schools which have definite and formal accredited relations with outside universities equiva- 
lent to those of accredited schools ia the States. 



Washington — 

Armstrong Manual Training High School 

(colored). 
Central High School. 
Eastern High School. , 
Emerson Institute. 
Friends' Select School. 



Washington (continued) — 
Madeira School for Girls. 
M Street High School (colored). 
McKinley Manual Training High School. 
National Cathedral School for Boys. 
National Cathedral School for Girls. 
Western High School. 



FLORIDA. 

Schools approved by the Florida State Board of Education and accredited by the University of Florida, 

December, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 16 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 3 

History 1 

Science 1 

Latin 2 

Electives 6 



Arcadiar— High School. 
Bartow— High School. 
Bradentown — High School. 
Brooksville— High School. 
Clearwater — High School. 
Dade City— High School 
Daytona — High School. 
DeFuniak Springs — 

High School. 

Palmer College Academy. 
Eustis— High School. 
Fort Lauderdale — High School. 
Fort Meade— High School. 
Fort Myers— High School. 
Gainesville — High School. 
Jacksonville — 

Florida Military Academy. 

High School. 
Key Wesf^High School. 
Kissimmee— High School. 
Lake City— High School. 
Lakeland— High School. 
Leesburg— High School. 



Live Oak— High School. 
Madison— High School. 
Miami— High School. 
Monticello — High School. 
Mulberry — High School. 
New Smyrna — High School. 
Ocala — High School. 
Orlando — High School. 
Palatka— High School. 
Pensacola — High School. 
Plant City— High School. 
Punta Gorda— High School. 
Quincy — High School. 
St. Augustine— High School. 
St. Petersburg— High School. 
Sanford — High School. 
Seabreeze — High School. 
Starke— High School. 
Tallahassee — High School. 
Tampa — High School. 
Wauchula — High School. 
West Palm Beach— High School. 



GEORGIA. 



Group I.— Schools "fully accredited" by the University of Georgia, May, 1914. 

Graduation on 15 accepted units. Units. 

Admission requirements 14 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2J 

History 2 

Foreign languages 2 

Electives 2i 



Albany— High School. 

Americus — High School. 

Athens — High School. 

Atlanta- 
Boys' High School. 
Girls' High School. 
Marist College. 
Peacock Fleet School. 



Atlanta — Continued. 

Technological High School. 
Washington Seminary. 
Woodberry School. 

Augusta- 
Richmond Academy. 
Summerville Academy. 
Tubman High School. 



20 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Bainbridge — High School. 

Barnesvill&— Gordon Institute. 

Boston — High School. 

Bowman — Olbson-Mercer Institute. 

Brunswick — Glynn Academy. 

CartersviUe— High School. 

Cedartown — High School. 

College Park — Georgia Military Academy. 

Columbus— High School. 

Cordele— High School. 

Demorest — Piedmont Academy. 

Dublin— High School. 

Elberton — High School. 

Fitzgerald- High School. 

Gainesville — Riverside Military Academy. 

Jackson— High School. 

La Grange — 

High School. 

La Grange College Academy. 
Locust Grove — Institute. 
Macon— Gresham and Lanier High School. 



Marietta — High School. 

McRae — South Georgia College. 

Milledgeville — Georgia Military College. 

Mount Berry — The Berry School for Boys. 

Newnan — High School. 

OciUa— High School. 

Quitman— High School. 

Rome- 
High School. 
Darlington Academy. 

Savannah- 
Benedictine College. 
Chatham Academy. 
Pape School. 

Thomaston— R. E. Lee Institute. 

Toccoa — High School. 

Valdosta— High School. 

Warren ton— High School. 

Washington— High School. 

Waycross— High School. 



Group II.— Schools "accredited" by the University of Georgia. 
Graduation on 14 accepted units. 



Ashburn— High School. 

Augusta — St. Joseph's Academy. 

Baxley— High School. 

Blackshear — Pierce Collegiate Institute. 

Blakely— High School. 

Buena Vista — High School. 

Carrollton— High School. 

Cochran— High School. 

Columbus — Secondary Industrial School. 

Commerce — High School. 

Dalton— High School. 

Decatur— High School. 

Eastman— High School. 

Gainesville — High School. 

Greensboro — High School. 

GrilHn— High School. 

Hartwell— High School. 

Hepzibah — High School. 

Jonesboro— High School. 

Lawrenceville— High School. 

McDonough— High School. 



Monroe— High School. 

Montezuma— High School. 

Mount Vernon — Mount Vernon Institute. 

Moultrie— High School. 

Norman Park — Norman Park Institute. 

Pavo — High School. 

Sandersville— High School. 

Senoia— High School. 

Sparks — Sparks Collegiate Institute. 

Sparta— High School. 

Stone Mountain — University School for Boys. 

Tennille— High School. 

Thomson— High School. 

Thomasville— High School. 

Vidalia— High School. 

Vienna— High School. 

West Point— High School. 

Wrens— High School. 

Winder— High School. 

Wrightsville — Warthen College. 



IDAHO. 



Accredited by the University of Idaho, April, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 4 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language ' 3 

Social science, including history 1 

Natural science 1 

Electives 14 



Albion— State Normal School. 
American Falls — High School. 
Blackfoot— High School. 
Boise — 

High School. 

St. Margaret's Academy. 

St. Teresa's Academy. 
Bormers Ferry — High School. 
Buhl— High School. 
Burke— High School. 



Caldwell— 

College of Idaho, Preparatory Department. 

High School. 
Coeur d' Alene — 

Coeur d' Alene College. 

High School. 
Culdesac— High School. 
Emmett— High School. 
Fruitland— High School. 
Genesee— High School. 



I Three units of Latin required for entrance to A. B. course. 



STATE LISTS. 



21 



Gooding— High School. 
Grangeville — High School. 
Hailey— High School. 
Idaho Falls— High School, 
Jerome— High School. 
Lapwai— High School. 
Lewiston — 

High School. 

State Normal School. 
Malad— High School. 
Meridian— High School. 
Midvale — High School. 
Montpelier— High School. 
Moscow — 

High School. 

Ursuline Academy. 
Mountain Home— High SchooL 
Mullan— High School. 
Nampa— High School. 
New Plymouth— High School. 
Nez Perce — High School. 
Oroflno— High School. 
Paris — Fidding Academy. 
Payette— High School. 
Parma— High School. 



Plummet- High School. 
PocateUo — 

Academy of Idaho. 

High School. 
Post Falls— High School. 
Potlatch— High School. 
Preston — Oneida Stake Academy. 
Rathdrum— High School. 
Rexburg — Ricks Academy. 
Rigby— High School. 
Rupert — High School. 
St. Anthony— High School. 
St. Maries — High School. 
Salmon — High School. 
Sandpoint — High School. 
Shoshone— High School. 
Spirit Lake — High School. 
Star— High School. 
Twm Falls— High School. 
Wallace— High School. 
Weiser — 

High School. 

Idaho Industrial Institute, 
Winchester — High School. 



ILLINOIS. 



Accredited by the University of Illinois, January, 1914. 

" The following high schools, having all the prescribed units and enough others to make up the required 
total of 15 units, are in the list of fully accredited schools. 

" Not all these schools, however, are accredited for the same amount of work, nor all for the same subjects. 
A student presenting a certificate from any one of these schools will be given entrance credit for all the 
subjectsnamedthereinforwhichthe said school is specifically accredited, as shown in the certificate of its 
accredited relation issued by the university." 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units- 
English 3 

Mathematics 2J 

For courses in literature and arts in the college of liberal arts and sciences — 

History 1 

Foreign language 3 

Electives ^ 



Abingdon— High School. 
Albion — 

High School. 

Southern Collegiate iTistitute. 
Aledo — 

Drury Academy. 

High School. 
Altamont— High School. 
Alton — High School. 
Amboy— High School. 
Anna— 

High School. 

Union Academy. 
Areola — High School. 
Arlington Heights — High School. 
Armington — High School (Township). 
Arthur— High School. 
Ashland — High School. 
Assumption— High School (Township). 
Astoria — High School. 
Atlanta — High School. 
Atwood— High School. 
Auburn— High School. 
Augusta— High School. 



Aurora — 

East High School. 

West High School. 

Jennings Seminary. 
Barry — High School. 
Batavia — High School. 
Beardstown— High School. 
Belleville— High School. 
Bellflower— High School (Township). 
Belvidere— High School. 
Bement — High School. 
Benton— High School (Township). 
Biggsville — High School (Township). 
Bloomington— High School. 

St. Mary's High School. 
Blue Island — High School. 
Bridgeport — High School (Township). 
Bushnell— High School. 
Caii'o — High School. 
Cambridge— High School. 
Camp Point— High School. 
Canton— High School. 
Carlinville — High School. 
Carlyle— High School. 



22 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Carmi— High School. 
Carrollton— High School. 
Carterville— High School. 
Carthage— 

Cartilage College Academy. 
High School. 
Casey— High School. 
Catlin High Scjiool. 
Centralia— High School (Township). 
Champaign— High School. 
Charleston— High School. 
Chats worth— High School. 
Chenoa— High School. 
Chester— High School. 
Chicago — 

Austin High School. 
Bowen High School. 
Calumet High School. 
Carl Schurz High School. 
Chicago Latin School. 
R. T. Crane Technical High School. 
Curtis High School. 
Englewood High School. 
Francis W. Parker School. 
Han'ison Technical High School. 
Harvard School. 
Hyde Park High School. 
Kenwood Iristitute. 
Lake High School. 
Lake View High School. 
Lane Technical High School. 
Loyola Academy. 
McKinley High School. 
Marshall High School. 
Medill High School. 
North Park College Academy. 
Tuley High School. 
R. A. Waller High School. 
Wendell Phillips High School. 
University High School. 
Chicago Heights— High School (Township). 
Chillicothe— High School (Township). 
Chrisman— High School. 
Cicero— High School (J. S. Morton Township). 
Clayton— High School. 
Clinton— High School. 
Colfax— High School. 
Collinsville— High School (Township). 
Crystal Lake — High School. 
Dallas City— High School. 
Danville — High School. 
Decatm-— High School. 
De Kalb— High School (Township). 
Delavan— High School. 
Des Plaines— High School (Maine Township). 
Dixon— 

High School. 
North High School. 
Downers Grove — High School. 
Dundee — High School. 
Duquoin— High School (Township). 
Dwight— High School. 
Earlville— High School. 
East St. Louis— High School. 
Edwardsville — High School. 
Effingham— High School. 
Eldorado— High School (Township). 



Elgin— 

Elgin A cademy. ' 

High School. 
Elizabeth— High School. 
Elmhurst— 

Evangelical Proseminar. 

High School. 
Elmwood— High School. 
El Paso— High School. 
Evanston- 

Evanston Academy. 

High School (Township.) 
Fairbury— High School. 
Fairfield — High School. 
Farmer City— High School (Township), 
Farmington — High School. 
Flora— High School (Township). 
Forrest- High School. 
Freeport- High School. 
Fulton— High School. 
Galena— High School. 
Galesburg— High School. 
Galva— High School. 
Geneseo — 

Geneseo Collegiate Institute. 

High School (Township). 
Geneva— High School. 
Genoa — High School. 
Geo^geto^vn— High School (Township). 
Gibson City— High School (Township). 
Gilman— High School. 
Godfrey — Monticcllo Seminary. 
Granite City — High School. 
Greenfield— High School. 
Greenview — High School. 
Greenville — High School. 
Griggsville— High School. 
Hamilton— High School. 
Harrisburg- High School (Township). 
Harvard— High School. 
Harvey— High School (Township). 
Havana— High School. 
Henry— High School. 
Herrin- High School (Township). 
Heyworth— High School. 
Highland— High School. 
Highland Park- 
High School (Township). 

Northwestern Military Academy. 
Hillsboro- High School. 
Hindsboro— Union High School. 
Hinsdale— High School. 
Homer— High School. 
Hoopeston— High School. 
Hume— High School. 
Hutsonville— High School (Township). 
Illiopolis— High School. 
Industry— High School (Township). 
Jacksonville — 

Academy of the Illinois Woman's College 

High School. 
Whipple Academy. 
Jerseyville — High School. 
Johnson City — High School. 
Joliet— High School (Township). 
Kankakee — High School. 
Kansas— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



23 



Kenilworth— High School (Township). 

Kewanee— High School. 

Kinmimdy — High School. 

Knoxville— High School. 

La Grange— High School (Township). 

La Harpe— High School. 

Lake Forest— 

Ferry Hall. 

Lake Forest Academy. 
Lanark— High School. 
La Salle— High School (Township). 
LawTenceville— High School (Township). 
Lena— High School. 
LeRoy — High School. 
Lewistx)wn— High School. 
Lexington — High School. 
Libertjrville— High School. 
Lincoln — High School. 
Litchfield- High School. 
Lockport- High School (Township). 
Loda — High School. 
Lovington — High School (Township). 
McLeansboro — High School. 
McNabb — John Swaney High School. 
Macomb— 

High School. 

"Western Illinois State Normal Academy. 
Madison — High School. 
Mansfield — High School. 
Manteno — High School. 
Marengo — High School. 
Marion — High School (Township). 
Marissa— High School (Township). 
Marseilles — High School. 
Marshall- High School (To%vnship). 
Mason City— High School. 
Mattoon — High School. 
Maywood— High School (Township). 
Mazon — High School (Township). 
Mendon — High School. 
Mendota— High School. 
Metropolis— High School. 
Milford— High School (Township). 
Minonk — High School. 
Moline — High School. 
Momence — High School. 
Monmouth — High School. 
Monticello — High School. 
Morgan Park- 
High School (Township). 

Morgan Park Academy. 
Morris— High School. 
Morrison— High School. 
Morton — High School (Township). 
Mount Carmel — High School. 
Mount Carroll — 

Frances Shimer School. 

High School. 
Moimt Pulaski— High School. 
Mount Sterling— High School. 
Mount Vernon — High School (Township). 
Moweaqua — High School. 
Murphysboro— High School (Township). 
Naperville — 

High School. 

Northwestern College Academy. 
Nashville — High School. 



Neoga— High School (Township). 
Newman — High School (Township). 
Newton — High School. 
Nokomis — High School. 
Normal — 

High School. 

Normal University High School. 
Oakland— High School. 
Oak Park— High School (Township). 
Oblong— High School. 
Odell— High School. 
Olney- High School. 
Onarga— 

Grand Prairie Seminary. 

High School. 
Oregon— High School. 
Ottawa— High School (Township). 
Palatine — High School. 
Palestine — High School. 
Pana— High School (Township). 
Paris — High School. 
Pawnee— High School (Township). 
Paw Paw— High School. 
Paxton — High School. 
Pekin— High School. 
Peoria — 

AveryvUle High School. 

Bradley Polytechnic Institute. 

Central High School. 

Manual Training High School. 
Petersburg — High School. 
Pittsfield— High School. 
Plainfield— High School. 
Piano— High School. 
Polo— High School. 
Pontiac — High School (Township). 
Princeton— High School (Township). 
ProphetstowTi— High School. 
Quincy — 

High School. 

St. Mary's Academy. 
Rantoul— High School. 
Ridgefarm— High Scnool. 
Riverside— High School. 
Robinson — High School (Township). 
Rochelle— High School. 
Rock Falls— High School. 
Rockford— High School. 
Rock Island — 

Augustana College Academy. 

High School. 

Villa de Chantal. 
Roodhouse— High School. 
Roseville — High School (Township). 
RossviUe — High School. 
Rush ville— High School. 
Rutland — High School. 
St. Charles— High School. 
St. Elmo— High School. 
Sandwich— High School. 
Savanna — High School (Township). 
Saybrook — High School. 
Sheffield— High School. 
Shelby ville— High School. 
Sheldon— High School. 
Sidell— High School (TowTiship). 
Sparta — High School. 



24 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Springfield- 
High School. 
Ursuline Academy. 

Stanford— High School. 

Staunton — High School. 

Sterling— High School (Township). 

Stockland— High School (Township). 

Stockton— High School. 

Stonington — High School. 

Streator— High School (Township). 

Sullivan — High School. 

Sycamore — High School. 

Taylorville — High School (Township). 

Tiskilwa— High School (Township). 

Toulon— High School (Township). 

Tuscola— High School. 

Upper Alton — Western Military Academy. 

Urbana— High School. 

Vandalia — High School. 

Vermilion Grove — Vermilion Academy. 

Villa Grove— High School. 



Virden— High School. 
Virginia — High School. 
Walnut— High School. 
Warren — High School. 
Washburn— High School. 
Washington— High School. 
Waterloo— High School. 
Watseka— High School. 
Waukegan — High School (Township). 
Wenona— High School. 
West Chicago — High School. 
Wcstfield — West field College Academy. 
Wheaton— 

High School. 

Wheaton College Academy. 
White Hall— High School. 
Wilmington— High School. 
Winchester— High School. 
Woodstock — High School. 
Wyoming — High School. 
Yorkville — High School. 



INDIANA. 

'Commissioned" (approved) by the State department of public instruction for the year 1914-15, and 
accredited bylndiana University. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 16 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language 2 

History 1 

Science 1 

Additional units selected from above subjects 2 

Electives 5 



Acton— High School. 

Advance — High School. 

Akron— High School. 

Albany — High School. 

Albion — High School. 

Alexandria — High School. 

Ambia— High School. 

Amboy — High School. 

Amo— High School. 

Anderson— High School. 

Andrews — High School. 

Angola- 
High School. 
Tri-State College. 

Arcadia — 

High School. 

Walnut Grove High School. 

Argos— High School. 

Ashley— High School. 

Atlanta— High School. 

Attica — High School. 

Auburn— High School. 

Aurora — High School. 

Avilla — High School. 

Batesville— High School. 

Battle Ground— High School. 

Baugo Township — High School. 

Bedford— High School. 

Berne — High School. 

Bicknell— High School. 

Bloomfield— High School. 

Bloomingdale — A cademy. 



Bloomington — High School. 
Bluffton- High School. 
Boonville— High School. 
Boswell— High School. 
Bourbon— High School. 
Brazil— High School. 
Bremen— High School. 
Bringhurst — High School. 
Bristol— High School. 
Broad Ripple— High School. 
Brook— High School. 
Brookston — High School. 
Brookville— High School. 
Brownsburg — High School.i 
Brownstown— High School. 
Bruceville— High School. 
Bryant— High School. 2 
Buck Creek— High School.2 
Bunker Hill— High School. 
Burlington — High School. 
Burnetts Creek— High School. 
Bumey— High School. 
Butler— High School. 
Cambridge City — High School. 
Camden— High School. 
Campbellsburg — High School. 2 
Cannelton — High School. 
Carlisle— High School. 
Carmel— High School.2 
Carthage— High School. 
Castleton— High School. 
Cayuga— High School. 



1 Commission to expire June 30, 1915. 



2 Commission expired June 30, 1914. 



STATE LISTS. 



25 



Centerville— High School. 
Chalmers— High School. 
Charlestown — High School.i 
Charlotteville— High School.* 
Chesterton— High School. 
Chippewa— High School. 
Churubusco— High School. 
Cicero— High School. 
Clarksburg— High School. 
Clarks Hill— High SchooH 
Clay City— High School. 
Clayton— High School. 
Clinton— High School. 
Cloverdale— High School. 
Coalmont— High School.* 
Coesse — High School. 
Colfax— High School.' 
College ville — St. Joseph's College. 
Columbia City— High School. 
Columbus— High School. 
Connersville- High School. 
Converse— High School. 
Corydon— High School. 
Covington — High School. 
Cowan— High School.' 
Crawfordsville — High School. 
Crown Point— High School. 
Culver— High School. 
Cumberland— High School. 
Cutler— High School.' 
Cynthiana— High School. 
Dale— High School. 
Dana— 

Helt Township High School. 

High School. 
Danville — 

Central Normal College, Academic Department. 

High School. 
Darlington— High School. 
Dayton — High School. 
Decatur — High School. 
Decker— High ScLiOol. 
Delphi— High School. 
Dublin— High School. 
Dunkirk— High School. 
Earl Park— High School.' 
East Chicago— High School. 
Eaton — High School. 
Edinburg- 

High School. 

Mount Auburn High School. 
Edwardsport— High School. 
Elkhart— High School. 
Elnora— High School. 
Elwood— High School. 
English— High School.' 
Epsom — High School. 
Evansville — 

High School. 

High School (colored). 
Fairland- High School.' 
Fairmount — 

A cademy. 

High School. 

Theological Institute. 
Farmersburg — High School. 



Farmland— High School. 

Ferdinand— ^cadfimy of the Immaculate Conception. 

Flora— High School.2 

Forest— High School.2 

Fort Branch— High School. 

Fortville— High School. 

Fort Wayne— 

Central Catholic High School, 
High School. 
Sacred Heart Academy. 
St. Augustine Academy. 
St. Catherine's Academy. 

Fountain City— High School. 

Fowler — 

High School. 

Sacred Heart Academy. 

Francesville— High School. 

Francisco — High School.2 

Frankfort— High School. 

Franklin— High School. 

Frankton— High School. 

Freelandville— High School. 

Fremont— High School.' 

French Lick— High School. 

Fritchton— High School. 

Galveston— High School. 

Garrett— High School. 

Gary— High School. 

Gas City— High School. 

Gaston— High School. 

Geneva— High School. 

Gilead— High School. 

Glenn— High School.' 

Goldsmith— High School. 

Goodland— High School, 

Goshen— 
Academy. 
High School. 

Gosport— High School. 

Grandview— High School. 
Grass Creek — High School. 
Greencastle — 

DePauw Academy. 
High School. 
Greenfield — High School. 
Greensburg— High School. 
Greensfork — High School. 
Greentown — High School. 
Greenwood— High School. 
Hagerstown — High School. 
Hamilton — High School.' 
Hamlet — High School 
Hammond^ 

All Saints Academy. 
High School. 
Hanna — High School. 
Hanover — A cademy. 
Harlan— High School. 
Hartford City— High School. 
Hebron— High School. 
Hillsboro— High School. 
Hobart — High School. 
Hope— High School. 
Hopewell— High School. 
Howe— Lima High School. 
Hudson— High School.' 



1 Commission expired June 30, 1914. 



2 Commission to expire June 30, 1915. 



26 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Huntingbiirg— High School. 
Huntington— 

Central College Academy. 

High School. 
Hymera — High School. 
Idaville — High School. 
Indianapolis — 

Blind Institute. 

Manual Training High School. 

St. Agnes Academy. 

St. John's Academy. 

Shortridge High School. 

Tudor Hall. 
Inwood— High School. 
Ireland— High School. 
Jackson^High School. 
Jamestown — High School. 
Jasonville— High School. 
Jasper— 

College. 

High School. 
Jeffersonville — High School. 
Jonesboro — High School. 
Kempton — High School.i 
Kendallville— High School. 
Kentland— High School. 
Kewanna— High School. 
Kingman — High School. 
Ku-klin- High School. 
Knightstown— High School. 
Knox— High School. 
Kokomo — High School.^ 
Kouts— High School. 
La Crosse — High School. 
Ladoga— High School. 
Lafayette — 

High School. 

Wea High School. 
Lafontaine— High School.i 
Lagrange— High School. 
Lagro— High School. 
Laketon— High School. 
Lakeville— High School.i 
La Otto — High School. 
Lapel— High School. 
Laporte — High School. 
Lawrencebuig — High School. 
Leavenworth — High School.i 
Lebanon— High School. 
Leo — High School. 
Letts— High School. 
Liberty — High School. 
Ligonier— High School. 
Lincoln— High School.i 
Linden— High School. 
Linton— High School. 
Logansport — 

High School. 

Metea High School. 
Loogootee— High School. 
Lowell— High School.i 
Lucerne— High School. 
Lynn — High School. 
Lyons — High School. 



McCordsville— High School. 

Madison — 

Colored High School. 
High School. 

Marengo — High School. 

Marion- 
High School. 
Normal Institute. 

Markle — High School. 

Martinsville — High School. 

Matthews — High School. 

Mecca — High School. 

Medary ville— High School.i 

Medora — High School.i 

Mellot— High School. 

Mentone — High School. 

Merom — Union Christian Academy. 

Michigan City — High School. 

Middlebury — High School. 

Middletown — High School. 

Milan— High School. 

Milford — High School. 

Mihoy — High School. 

Milton — High School. 

Mishawaka^High School. 

Mitchell— High School. 

Monon — High School. 

Monroe — High School. 

Monroe City — High School. 

Monroeville — High School. 

Montezuma— High School. 

Monticello — High School. 

Montmorenci — High School. 

Montpelier — High School. 

Moore's Hill — Academy. 

Moreland— High School. 

Mooresvllle — High School. 

Morocco — High School. 

Morristown — High School. 

Moimt Vernon- High School. 

Mulberry- 
High School. 
Weidner Institute. 

Muncie— 

High School. 
Normal Institute. 

Nappanee— High School. 

Nashville— High School. 

New Albany- 
Colored High School. 
High School. 

New Augusta — High School. 

Newburgh — High School. 

New Carlisle — High School. 

New Castle— High School. 

New Harmony— High School. 

New Haven— High School. 

New London — High School. 

New Market— High School. 

Newport— High School. 

New Richmond— High School. 

Newton — High School. 

Noblesville — High School. 

North Judson— High School. 

North Liberty— High School. 



1 Commission expired June 30, 1914. 



2 Commission expires June 30, 1915. 



STATE LISTS. 



27 



North Manchester- 
Chester Township High School. 
High School. 
Manchester Academy. 

North Salem— High School. 

North Vernon— High School. 

Oakland City — 
Academy. 
High School. 

Oaklandon — High School. 

Oaktown — High School. 

Odon— High School 

Oldenburg — Academy of the Immaculate Conception. 

Onward — High School. 

Orland— High School. 

Orleans — High School. 

Osgood — High School.' 

Ossian— High School. 

Otterbein— High School. 

Otwell— High School. 

OwensviUe — High School. 

Oxford — High School. 

Paoli— High School. 

Parker— High School. 

Pendleton — High School. 

Pennville — High School. 

Perrysville — High School. 

Peru— High School. 

Petersburg— High School. 

Petroleum— High School. 

Pimento — High School. 

Pine Village— High School. 

Plainfleld— 
Academy. 
High School. 

Plainville— High School. 

Pleasant Lake — High School. 

Plymouth— High School. 

Portland— High School. 

Poseyville — High School. 

Princeton — High School. 

Raub— High Schcol.i 

Redkey — High School. 

Remington — High School. 

Rensselaer — High School. 

Richmond— High School. 

Ridgeville — 
High School. 
Green Township High School. 

RUey — High School. 

Rising Sun — High School. 

Roachdale — High School. 

Roaim — High School. 

Roanoke^— High School. 

Rochester — High School. 

Rockport — High School. 

Rocln-ille— High School. 

Rolling Prairie- 
High School. 
Interldken School. 

Rome City— High School. 

Ronmey — High School. 

RossvUle — High School. 

Royal Center — High School. 

Royerton — High School. 



Rushville— High School. 
Russellville— High School. 
Russiaville — High School. 
St. Mary's — Academy. 
St. Paul— High School. 
Salem— High School. 
Sandborn— High School. 
Scottsburg— High School. 
Selma— High School. 
Seymour— High School. 
Sharpsville — High School. 
Shelburn— High School. 
Shelbyville— High School. 
Sheridan — High School. 
Shipshewana — High School. 
Shoals— High School. 
Silver Lake— High School. 
Smithville— High School. 
South Bend- 
High School. 

St. Joseph's College. 
Southport — High School. 
South Milford— High School. 
South Whitley— High School. 
Spartanburg— High School. 
Spencer— High School. 
Spencerville— High School. 
Spiceland— Academy. 
Star City— High School. 
Staunton— High School. 
Stilesville— High School. 
Stillwell— High School. 
Stinesville— High School. 
Stockwell— High School. 
Sullivan— High School. 
Summitville— High School. 
Swayzee — High School. 
Sweetser— High School. 
Syracuse — High School. 
Tangier— High School. 
Tell City— High School. 
Terre Haute— 

Garfield High School. 

State Normal High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 

Wiley High School. 
Thorntown— High School. 
Tipton— 

High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 
Topeka— High School. 
Troy— High School.! 
Union City— High School. 
Union Mills— High School. 
University Heights— /nd/ano Central University. 
Upland — 

High School. 

Taylor University. 
Urbana— High School. 
Vallonia— High School.* 
Valley Mills— High School. 
Valparaiso — 

High School. 

University. 
Van Buren — High School. 



1 Commission expired June 30, 1914. 



28 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Veedersburg— High School. 
Versailles — High School. 
Vevay— High School. 
Vincennes — 

Academy. 

High School. 

St. Rose Academy. 
Wabash— 

High School. 

Linlawn High School. 
Wakarusa— High School.i 
Walkerton— High School.i 
Walton— High School.i 
Wanamaker— New Bethel High School. 
W^natah— High School. 
Warren — High School. 
Warsaw— High School. 
Washington— High School. 
Waterloo— High School. 
Waveland— High School. 
Waynetown — High School. 
West Baden— High School. 
Westfleld— High School. 
West Lafayette— High School. 
Westland— High School. 
West Lebanon — High School. 
West Middleton— High School.i 
West Newton — High School. 



Westpoinfr— High School. ■ 
Westport— High School.i 
West Terre Haute — High School. 
Westville— High School. 
Wheatfleld— High School. 
Wheatland— High School. 
Wheeler — High School. 
Whiteland— High School. 
Whitestown— High School.i 
White Water— High School. 
Whiting— High School. 
Wilkinson — High School.i 
Williamsburg— High School. 
Will iamsport— High School. 
Winamac— High School. 
Winchester — 

High School. 

McKinley High School. 
Windfall— High School.i 
Wingate — High School. 
Winona Lake — Winona Academy. 
Wolcott— High School. 
Wolcottville— High School. 
Woodburn — Manmee Township High School. 
Worthington — High School. 
Young America — High School. 
Zionsville— High School. 



IOWA. 



Approved by the State board of education and accredited by the Iowa State University, May, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 J 

History 1 

Foreign language 2 

Electives 6i 



Ackley — High School. 

Adair— High School. 

Adel— High School. 

Afton — High School. 

Agency— High School. 

Albia — High School. 

Alden — High School. 

Algona— High School. 

Allerton — High School. 

Alta — High School. 

Alton— High School. 

Ames— High School. 

Anamosa — High School. 

Anita — High School. 

Atlantic— High School. 

Audubon— High School. 

Aurelia- High School. 

Avoca — High School. 

Bancroft — St. John's Parochial School. 

Bayard— High School. 

Bedford— High School. 

Belle Plaine— High School. 

Bellevue— High School. 

Belmond— High School. 

Blairstown— High School. 

Blockton— High School. 

Bloomfield — High School. 



Boone — High School. 

Brighton— High School. 

Britt- High School. 

Brooklyn — High School. 

Buffalo Center — High School. 

Burlington — High School. 

Burt— High School. 

Calmar — High School. 

Carroll— High School. 

Cedar Falls- 
High School. 

Iowa State Teachers College, Training Depart- 
ment. 

Cedar Rapids— High School. 

Center Point — High School. 

CentervOle— High School. 

Chariton— High School. 

Charles City— High School. 

Charter Oak— High School. 

Cherokee — High School. 

Clarinda— High School. 

Clarksville — High School. 

Clarence^High School. 

Clarion— High School. 

Clearfield— High School. 

Clear Lake — High School. 

Clinton— High School. 



1 Commission expired June 30, 1914. 



STATE LISTS. 



29 



Coggon— High School. 
Colfax — High School. 
College Springs— High School. 
Columbus Junction— High School. 
Colo— High School. 
Conrad— High School. 
Coon Rapids— High School. 
Coming— High School. 
Correctionville— High School. 
Corydon— High School. 
Council Bluffs— High School. 
Cresco — High School. 
Creston- High School. 
Dallas Center— High School. 
Danbury — High School. 
Davenport — 

High School. 

St. Ambrose Collegiate Academy. 

St. Katherine' s School. 
Decorah— High School. 
Denmark — High School. 
Denison— 

High School. 

Denison Normal School. 
Des Moines— 

East High School. 

North High School. 

West High School. 

Grand Vieiv Academy. 
De Witt— High School. 
Dexter — High School. 
Dows— Hii^h School. 
Dubuque— 

High School. 

Mount St. Joseph Academy. 

St. Joseph Academy. 

St. Joseph College Academy. 
Dunlap — High School. 
Dysart— High School. 
Eagle Grove— High School. 
Earlham — High School. 
Eddyville— High School. 
Eldon— High School. 
Eldora— High School. 
Elkader— High School. 
Elliott— High School. 
Emerson— High School. 
Emmetsburg- High School. 
Essex— High School. 
Esthervnlle— High School. 
Exira— High School. 
Fairfield— 

High School. 

Parsons College Academy. 
Farmington — High School. 
Farragut — High School. 
Fayette— High School. 
Fonda— High School. 
Fontanelle — High School. 
Forest City- 
High School. 
Waldorf College. 
Fort Dodge— High School. 
Fort Madison— High School. 
Gal va— High School. 
Garden Grove — High School. 
Gamer — High School. 
Gilmore City— High School. 



Gladbrook— High School. 
Glen wood — High School. 
Glidden— High School. 
Goldfield— High School. 
Greene — High School. 
Greenfield— High School. 
Griswold — High School. 
Grinnell— High School. 
Grundy Center — High School. 
Gutherie Center— High School. 
Guttenberg— High School. 
Hamburg— High School. 
Hampton— High School. 
Harlan— High School. 
Hartley — High School. 
Hawarden— High School. 
Hedrick— High School. 
Hiteman — High School. 
Holstein — High School. 
Hubbard— High School. 
Humboldt — High School. 
Ida Grove— High School. 
Independence— High School. 
Indianola— High School. 
Inwood — High School. 
Iowa City — 

High School. 

Iowa City Academy. 

St. Mary's High School. 

St. Patrick's High School. 
Iowa Falls- 
High School. 

Ellsworth Academy. 
Jefferson— High School. 
Jewell — 

High School. 

Jewell Lutheran College. 
Kellogg- High School. 
Keokuk — High School. 
Keosauqua— High School. 
Keota — High School. 
Kingsley— High School. 
Knoxville— High School. 
Lake City— High School. 
Lake Park — High School. 
Lake Mills— High School. 
Lamoni— High School. 
Lansing— High School. 
Laporte City— High School. 
Larch wood— High School. 
Lehigh— High School. 
Le Mars — 

High School. 

Western Union College Academy. 
Lenox — High School. 
Leon— High School. 
Lisbon— High School. 
Livermore — High School. 
Logan— High School. 
Lyons— High School. 
Malvern— High School. 
Manchester— High School. 
Manilla — High School. 
Manning— High School. 
Manson— High School. 
Mapleton— High School. 
Maquoketa— High School. 
Marathon— High School. 



30 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Marcus— High School. 

Marengo— High School. 

Marion — High School. 

Marshalltown— High School. 

Mason City— High School. 

McGregor— High School. 

Mechanics ville — High School. 

Mediapolis— High School. 

Milford— High School. 

Missouri Valley— High School. 

Monona — High School. 

Monroe— High School. 

Montezuma — High School. 

Monticello — High School. 

Morning Sun — High School. 

Moulton— High School. 

Mount Ayr — High School. 

Mount Pleasant — High School. 

Mount Vernon— High School. 

Murray— High School. 

Muscatine— High School. 

Nashua — High School. 

Neola— High School. 

Nevada— High School. 

Newell— High School. 

New Hampton— High School. 

New London — High School. 

New Providence— High School. 

New Sharon— High School. 

Newton — High School. 

Nora Springs— High School. 

North English— High School. 

Northwood— High School. 

Oakland — High School. 

Odebolt— High School. 

Oelwein — High School. 

Ogden— High School. 

Olin— High School. 

Onawa— High School. 

Orange City- 
High School. 
North Western Classical Academy. 

Orient^High School. 

Osage- 
Cedar Valley Seminary. 
High School. 

Osceola— High School. 

Oskaloosa — 
High School. 
Penn College Academy. 

Ottumwa— High School. 

Oxford— High School. 

Panora— High School. 

Parkersburg — High School. 

Paullina— High School. 

Pella— High School. 

Perry— High School. 

Pocahontas — High School. 

Pomeroy— High School. 

Prairie City —High School. 

Preston — High School. 

Primghar— High School. 

Radcliffe — High School. 

Randolph — High School. 

Red Oak— High School. 

Reinbeck— High School. 

Riceville— High School. 

Rockford— High School. 



Rock Rapids — High School. 

Rock Valtey— High School. 

Rockwell City— High School. 

Roland — High School. 

Rolfe— High School. 

Ruthven— High School. 

Sabula— High School. 

Sac City- 
High School. 
Institute. 

Sanborn— High School. 

Schaller— High School. 

Seymour— High School. 

Sheffield— High School. 

Shelby— High School. 

Sheldon— High School. 

SheU Rock— High School. 

Shenandoah— High School. 

Sibley— High School. 

Sidney— High School. 

Sigourney — High School. 

Sioux Center — High School. 

Sioux City — 

Cathedral School. 
High School. 

Sioux Rapids — High School. 

Sloan— High School. 

Spencer — High School. 

Spirit Lake— High School. 

Springville— High School. 

Stanwood — High School. 

State Center— High School. 

Storm Lake— High School. 

Story City— High School. 

Strawberry Point— High School. 

Stuart— High School. 

Sumner — High School. 

Sutherland— High School. 

Tabor— High School. 

Tama — High School. 

Tipton— High School. 

Toledo— High School. 

Traer— High School. 

Union— High School. 

University Park — Central Holiness Academy. 

Ute— High School. 

Valley Junction— High School. 

Villisca— High School. 

Vin ton- 
High School. 
Tilford Acadeniy. 

Walnul^High School. 

Wapello— High School. 

"Washington— High School. 

Waterloo — 

(East)— High School. 
(West)— High School. 

Waukon— High School. 

Waverly— High School. 

Webster City— High School. 

WeUman— High School. 

West Bend— High School. 

West Branch— High School. 

West Liberty— High School. 

West Side— High School. 

West Union— High School. 

What Cheer— High School. 

Whiting— High School. 



STATE LISTS, 



31 



Williamsburg— High School. 
Wilton— High School. 
Winfield— High School. 
Win terset— High School. 



Woodbine — 
High School. 
Woodbine Normal School, 



KANSAS. 



Class I schools accredited by the University of Kansas, January, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 21 

Foreign language 3 

Science 2 

History and social science 1 

Electives 3 j 



Abilene — High School. 

Alden — High School. 

Alma — High School. 

Almena — High School. 

Altamont— Labette County High School. 

Altoonar— High School. 

Anthony— High School. 

Argentine— High School. 

Argonia — Dixon Township High School. 

Arkansas City — High School. 

Ashland — High School. 

Atchison — High School. 

Attica — High School. 

Atwood— Rawlins County High School. 

Augusta — High School. 

Axtell— High School. 

Baldwin— 

Baker University Academy. 

High School. 
Basehor — High School. 
Belle Plaine— High School. 
Belleville— High School. 
Beloit— High School. 
Blue Rapids— High School. 
Bonner Springs— High School. 
Bucklin— High School. 
Buffalo— High School. 
Burden— High School. 
Burlingame — High School. 
Burlington- High School. 
Bums — High School. 
Burr Oak— High School. 
Burrton— High School. 
Caldwell— High School. 
Caney— High School. 
Canton— High School. 
Cawker City — High School. 
Chanute— High School. 
Chapman— Dickinson County High School. 
Cheney — High School. 
Cherokee — 

Crawford County High School. 

Decatur County High School. 
Cherry vale — High School. 
Cimarron— High School. 
Clay Center— Clay County High School. 
Clearwater — High School. 
Clifton— High School. 
Clyde— High School. 
Cofleyville— High School. 
Colby— Thomas County High School. 
Cold water— High School. 
Colony— High School. 
Columbus— Cherokee County High School. 



Concordia — 

High School. 

Nazareth Academy. 
Conway Springs— High School. 
Cottonwood Falls— Chase County High School. 
Council Grove— High School. 
Delphos — High School. 
Derby— High School. 
Dodge City— High School. 
Douglass — High School. 
Downs— High School. 
Edwardsville — High School. 
E fTmgham— Atchison County High School. 
EI Dorado— High School. 
Ellinwood — High School. 
Ellis— High School. 
Ellsworth— High School. 
Emporia— High School. 
Enterprise— High School. 
Erie— High School. 
Eskridge— High School. 
Eureka— High School. 
Fairview — High School. 
Florence — High School. 
Formoso — High School. 
Fort Scott— High School. 
Fowler — High School. 
Frankfort— High School. 
Fredonia — High School. 
Galena— High School. 
Garden City — High School. 
Garnett— High School. 
Gas City— High School. 
Girard — High School. 
Goodland— Sherman County High School. 
Great Bend — High School. 
Greenleaf— High School. 
Greensburg — Kiowa County High School. 
Grenola — High School. 
Gjrpsum— High School. 
Halstead— High School. 
Hanover — High School. 
Harper — High School. 
Hartford— High School. 
Hays — High School. 
Harrington — High School. 
Hesston — A cademy. 
Hiawatha— High School. 
Highland— High School. 
Hill City— High School. 
Hoisington— High School. 
Holton— High School. 
Horton- High School. 
Howard— High School. 



32 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Hoxie— Sheridan County High School. 

Humboldt— High School. 

Hutchinson — High School. 

Independence — Montgomery County High School. 

lola— High School. 

Jetmore— High School. 

Jewell City— High School. 

Junction City— High School. 

Kansas City — 

Catholic High School. 
High School. 

Sumner High School (colored). 
Wilson High School. 
Kingman— High School. 
Kinsley— High School. 
Kiowa— High School. 
La Crosse— High School. 
La Cygne— High School. 
La Harpe— High School. 
Lakin— High School. 
Lansing— High School. 
Lamed— High School. 
Latham— High School. 
Lawrence — High School. 
Leavenworth — 
High School. 
St. Mary's Academy. 
Lebanon— High School. 
Leon— High School. 
Le Roy— High School. 
Lewis— High School. 
Liberal— High School. 
LineoLa — High School. 
I^indsborg- High School. 
Linwood— High School. 
Little River- High School. 
Logan— High School. 

Lyndon — High School. 

Macksville— High School. 

Madison— High School. 

Manhattan— High School. 

Mankato— High School. 

Marion— High School. 

Marquette— High School. 

Marysville— High School. 

McPherson— High School. 

Meade— High School. 

Medicine Lodge— High School. 

Minneapolis— High School. 

Moline— High School. 

Moran— High School. 

Moundridge— High School. 

Mount Hope— High School. 

Mulvane— High School. 

Neosho Falls— High School. 

Neodesha— High School. 

Ness City— High School. 

Newton— 

Bethel Academy. 
High School. 

Nickerson— Reno County High School. 

Norton — 

High School. 

Norton County High School. 

Nortonville— High School. 

Norwich— High School. 

Oberlin— Decatur County High School. 

Oakley— High School. 

Olathe— High School. 



Onaga— High School. 
Osage City— High School. 
Osawatomie — High School. 
Osborne — High School. 
Oskaloosa — High School. 
Oswego — High School. 
Ottawa — 

High School. 

Ottawa University Academy. 
Overbrook — High School. 
Oxford— High School. 
Paola — High School. 
Parsons— High School. 
Peabody— High School. 
Perry — High School. 
Phillipsburg— High School. 
Plain villa— High School. 
Pittsburg— High School. 
Pleasanton— High School. 
Pratt— High School. 
Protection — High School. 
Ransom— High School. 
Rosedale— High School. 
Rose Hill— High School. 
Rossville— High School. 
Russell— High School. 

St. Francis — Cheyenne County High School. 
Sabetha— High School. 
St. John— High School. 
Saliaa— High School. 
Sedan— High School. 
Sedgwick— High School. 
Seneca— High School. 
Sharon— High School. 
Sharon Springs— High School. 
Smith Center— High School. 
Solomon— High School. 
Spearville— High School. 
Spivey— High School. 
Spring Hill— High School. 
Stafford— High School. 
Sterling— High School. 
Stockton— High School. 
Syracuse— High School. 
Tonganoxie— High School. 
Topeka— 

High School. 
Washburn Academy. 
Troy — High School. 
Valley Center— High School. 
Valley Falls— High School. 
Wa Keeney— High School. 
Wamego— High School. 
Washington— High School. 
Waterville— High School. 
Wathena— High School. 
Waverly— High School. 
Wellington— Sumner County High School. 
Wellsville— High School. 
Wetmore— High School. 
White Water— High School. 
Wichita— High School. 
Williamsburg— High School. 
Wilson— High School. 
Winchester— High School. 
Winfield— 

High School. 
Southwestern Academy. 
Yates Center— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



33 



KENTUCKY. 



Class A schools accredited by the University of Kentuckj', May, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics ^ 

Foreign language 4 

History 1 

Science 1 

Electives 3V 



.Vshland— High School. 
Auburn— County High School. 
Augusta— High School. 
Barboursville— Union College. 
Bowling Green- 
High School. 
West Kentucky Normal. 
Carrollton — High School. 
Central City— High School. 
Catlettsburg— High School. 
Clinton — Marvin University School. 
Columhia—Lindsey- Wilson. 
Covington— High School. 
Cythiana— High School. 
Dawson Springs— High School. 
Dayton— High School. 

ElizabethtowTi— Hardin County High School. 
Falmouth — High School. 
Flemingsburg- High School. 
Frankfort— High School. 
Franklin— High School. 
Fulton— High School. 
Georgetown- 
High School. 
Cardome Academy. 
Glasgow- 
High School. 
Liberty College. 
Greenville— High School. 
Hardinsburg— County High School. 
Harrodsburg— High School. 
Hartford— High School. 
Henderson— High School. 
HopkinsvUle — High School. 
LaGrange— High School. 
Lancaster — High School. 
Lawrenceburg — 

City High School. 
High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 
Lexington — 

Hamilton College. 
High School. 
Sayre College. 
London — Sue Bennet Memorial. 
Louisa — High School. 
LouisvUle — 

Girls' High School. 
Male High School. 
Manual Training High SchooL 
75087°— 15 3 



Louisville — Continued. 

St. Xavier College. 

Semple Collegiate School. 

Training School. 

University School. 
Ludlow — High School. 
Lyndon — Kentucky Military Institute. 
Madisonville — High School. 
Mayfield — High School. 
Maysville — High School. 
Midway— JEentMcfcy Female Orphan School. 
Millersburg — 

Female College. 

Military Institute. 
Morganfleld— High School. 
Mount Sterling — High School. 
Murray — High School. 
Nazareth — Nazareth Academy. 
Newport — 

Academy Notre Dame of Providence. 

Bellevue High School. 

High School. 
Nicholasville— High School. 
Owensboro — 

High School. 

Owensboro College. 
Owenton— High School. 
Paducah — High School. 
PaintsvUle — Sandy Valley Seminary. 
Paris— High School. 
Pikeville — Collegiate Institute. 
Princeton — High School. 
Richmond — 

Caldwell High School. 

Eastern Kentucky Normal. 

Model High School. 
Russellville— Bf^fteZ College, Preparatory Depart- 

ment. 
Shelbyville— 

High School. 

Science Hall. 
Somerset— High School. 
Stanford — High School. 
Stanton — Stanton College. 
Sturgis— High School. 
Versailles — Margaret College. 
W alton — High School. 
Williamsburg — Cumberland College. 
Wilmore— ^sfrur^/ College Academy. 
Winchester— High School. 



34 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



LOUISIANA. 



Approved by the State board of education and accredited by the University of I-ouisiana, May, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 14 

Prescribed imits: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 J 

Modern language 1 

History 1 

Electives 6 J 



Abbeville— High School. 
Alexandria— High School. 
Amite— High School. 
Arcadia— High School. 
Ashland— High School. 
Athens— High School. 
Bastrop— High School. 
Baton Rouge — 

Central High School. 

High School. 
Baywood— High School. 
Benton — High School. 
Bemice — High School. 
Bienville — High School. 
Boyce— High School. 
Breaux Bridge— High School. 
Brusly — High School. 
Bunkie — High School. 
Calhoun— High School. 
Campti — High School. 
Cataro — Grand Prairie High School. 
Cheneyville— High School. 
Clinton — High School. 
Colfax— High School. 
Colomb — RomevUle High School. 
Columbia— High School. 
Cotton Valley — High School. 
Coushatta— High School. 
Covington— High School. 
Crowley— High School. 
Denham Springs— High School. 
De Quincy — High School. 
De Bidder- High School. 
Dodson— High School. 
Donaldsonville — High School. 
Doyline — High School. 
Dubach— High School. 
Dutch town— High School. 
Ebenezer— High School. 
Eros — High School. 
Eunice— High School. 
Evergreen — High School. 
Farmerville— High School. 
Florien- High School. 
Forest Hill— High School. 
Franklin— High School. 
Franklinton— High School. 
Georgetown— High School. 
Gibsland— High School. 
Goldonna— High School. 
Gonzales— High School. 
Grand Cane — High School. 
Grayson— High School. 
Gretna— High School. 
Gueydan — High School. 
Hammond— High School. 
Harrisonburg— High School. 



Haughton — High School. 
HaynesvDle — High School. 
Homer — High School. 
Hope Villa— Oak Grove High School. 
Hombeck— High School. 
Houma— Terrebonne High School. 
Independence— High School. 
Iota— High School. 
Jackson— High School. 
Jeanerette— High School. 
Jena— High School. 
Jennings — High School. 
Labadieville — High School. 
Lake Arthur — High School. 
Lake Charles — High School. 
Lake Providence— High School. 
Lecompte— High School. 
LeesvUle — 

High School. 

Bellevue High School. 
Lockport— High School. 
Logansport — High School. 
Longstreet — High School. 
Lutcher— High School. 
Mansfield — High School. 
Mansura — High School. 
Many — High School. 
Marion — High School. 
Marks ville— High School. 
Marthaville — High School. 
MelvUle — High School. 
Mer Rouge— High School. 
Merryville — High School. 
Minden — High School. 
Mineral — Wallace High School. 
Monroe — High School. 
Monterey — Central High School. 
Morgan City — High School. 
NapoleonvUle — High School. 
New Iberia — High School. 
Oakdale — High School. 
Opelousas— High School. 
Patterson — High School. 
Pelican— High School. 
Plain Dealing— High School. 
Plaquemine — High School. 
Pleasant HUl— High School. 
Pollock— High School. 
Ponchatoula — High School. 
Rayne — High School. 
Rayville— High School. 
Reserve — High School. 
Robeline— High School. 
Shreveport — High School. 
Simsboro — High School. 
Slidell— High School. 
Spring Hill— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



35 



stonewall— High School. 
St. Francisville — High School. 
St. Joseph — High School. 
St. Martinville— High School. 
Sulphur— High School. 
Tallulah— High School. 
Thibodaux— High School. 
Verda — High School. 
Vidalia — High School. 
Vidrine — High School. 



Ville Platte— High School. 
Vinton— High School. 
Vivian — High School. 
Washington— High School. 
Welsh— High School. 
White Castle— High School. 
Winniield — High School. 
Winnsboro — High School. 
Zachary— High School. 



Supplementary list of secondary schools accredited by the University of Louisiana. 

" Graduates of each of the following secondary schools who have completed the four-year high-school 
course, or the equivalent, with admission credits amounting to 14 imits, will be admitted to the freshman 
class." 



Baton Rouge — St. Vincent's Academy. 

Bogalusa — High School. 

DonaldsonviUe — St. Joseph's Commercial Institute. 

Greensburg — High School. 

Houma — Lorton Preparatory School. 

Kentwood — High School. 

Monroe — Monroe City High School. 

New Orleans — 

Boys' High School. 

Girls' High School. 



New Orleans — Continued. 

Chenet Institute. 

FerrelVs School. 

Harris Preparatory School. 

Holy Cross College. 

Home Institute. 

Isidore Neivman Manual Training School. 

Rugby Academy. 
New Roads — Poydras Academy. 



MAINE. 

" Class A ■ ' schools approved by the State superintendent of schools, for the year ended July, 1913. " Gradu- 
ates of schools in class A may be admitted (to the University of Maine) upon their school records, pro- 
vided they pursue a course of study including all the subjects required for admission to the college that 
they propose to enter, and a sufficient number of elective subjects to make up a total of 14 units. " 
Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2^ 

Foreign language 4 

History 1 

Elective 3j 



Abbott Village— High School. 
Albion — High School. 
Alfred— High School. 
Ashland— High School. 
Athens — Somerset Academy. 
Auburn— High School. 
Augusta— High School. 
Bangor — High School. 
Bar Harbor— Eden High School. 
Bath— High School. 
Belfast— High School. 
Belgrade— High School. 
Berwick— High School. 
Bethel — Gould's Academy. 
Biddeford— High School. 
Bingham — High School. 
BluehiU — George Stevens Academy. 
Boothbay Harbor— High School. 
Bowdoinham — High School. 
Bradford— High School. 
Brewer — High School. 
Bridgton— High School. 

Bridgewater Center — Bridgewater Classical Insti- 
tute. 
Bristol— High School. 
Brooklin— High School. 
BrownviUe — High School. 
Brunswick — High School. 
Bryant Pond — Woodstock High School. 



Buckfield— High School. 

Buxton Center— Buxton High School. 

Bucksport— £a«< Maine Conference Seminary. 

Calais — Calais Academy. 

Camden— High School. 

South Portland— Cape Elizabeth High School. 

Caribou— High School. 

Castiae — High School. 

Charleston — Higgins Classical Institute. 

Cherryfleld — Cherryfield Academy. 

Clinton— High School. 

Columbia Falls — High School. 

Corinna — Corinna Union Academy. 

Cornish— High School. 

Cumberland Center— Greeley Institute. 

Danforth— High School. 

Deer Isle— High School. 

Dexter— High School. 

DLxfield— High School. 

Dresden Mills — Bridge Academy. 

East Corinth— East Corinth Academy. 

East Machias — Washington Academy. 

Easton— High School. 

Eastport— High School. 

Eliot— High School. 

Ellsworth— High School. 

Exeter— High School. 

Fairfield- High School. 

Farmington — High School. 



36 



ACCEEDITED SECONDxiRY SCHOOLS. 



Fort Fairfield— High School. 
FoxcToit—Foxcroft Academy. 
Frankfort — High School. 
Franklin — High School. 
Freedom — Freedom Academy. 
Freeport— High School. 
Fryebvirg — Fryeburg Academy. 
Gardiner— High School. 
Gorham— High School. 
GrsLy—Pennell Institute. 
GreenviUe — High School. 
Guilford— High School. 
HaUowell— High School. 
Hampden — Hampden Academy. 
Hartland — Hartland Academy. 
Hinckley— Good Will High School. 
Hebron — Hebron Academy. 
Hollis Center — HoUis High School. 
Houlton— High School. 

Bicker Class icallnstitute. 
Island Falls— High School. 
Islesboro — High School. 
Jay— High School. 
Jonesport— High School. 
Kennebunk— High School. 
Kennebunkport— High School. 
Ken ts Hill — Maine Wcsleyan Seminary. 
Kezar Falls— Porter High School. 
Kingfleld— High School. 
Kingman— High School. 
Kittery — Traip Academy. 
Lee— Zee Normal Academy. 
Lewiston— High School. 
Limerick — Limerick Academy. 
Limestone— High School. 
Limington — Limington Academy. 
Lincoln— Mattanawcook Academy. 
Lisbon Falls— High School. 
Litchfield — Litchfield A cademy. 
Livermore Falls — East Livermore High School. 
Lubec— High School. 
Machias— High School. 
Madison— High School. 
Mars Hill— Aroonstook Central Institute. 
Mechanic Falls— High School. 
Millbridge— High School. 
Millinocket— High School. 
Milo— High School. 
Monmouth — Monmouth Academy. 
Monson— Monson Academy. 
Mount Vernon — High School. 
Newcastle — Lincoln Academy. 
New Gloucester— High School. 
Newport— High School. 
New Sharon— High School. 
Norridgewock— High School. 
North Anson — Anson Academy. 
North Berwick — High School. 
North Bridgton — Bridgton Academy. 
Northeast Harbor— Mount Desert High School. 
Norway— High School. 
Oakland— High School. 
Old Orchard— High School. 
Old Town— High School. 



Orono — High School. 

Oxford— High School. 

Parsonsfield— Par«ons^«W Seminar}/. 

Patten — Patten Academy. 

Phillips- High School. 

Pittsfield — Maine Central Institute. 

Portland— 

Deering High School. 

High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 

Westbrook Seminary. 
Presque Isle— High School. 
Princeton — High School. 
Rangeley — High School. 
Richmond— High School. 
Rockland — High School. 
Rockport— High School. 
Rumford— High School. 
Sabattus— Webster High School. 
Saco — Thornton Academy. 
Sanford— High School. 
Sangerville — High School. 
Scarboro— High School. 
Searsport— High School. 
Sherman— High School. 
Skowhegan — High School. 
Solon — High School. 
South Berwick — Berwick Academy. 
South China — Erskine Academy. 
South Paris— Paris High School. 
South Portland — High School. 
Southwest Harbor — High School. 
South Windam — Windam High School. 
SpvingfieXd-— Eastern Maine Institute. 
Standish— High School. 
Stonington— High School. 
Strong— High School. 
Tenants Harbor— St. George High School. 
Thomaston— High School. 
Topsham— High School. 
Turner Center — Leavitt Institute. 
Unity — High School. 
Vanceboro — High School. 
Vassalboro — Oak Grove Seminary. 
Vinalhaven— High School. 
Waldoboro— High School. 
Warren — High School. 
Washburn— High School. 
Waterville — 

Coburn Classical Institute. 

High School. 
Wells— High School. 
Westbrook— High School. 
West Sullivan— Sullivan High School. 
Wilton — Wilton Academy. 
Winslow— High School. 
Winter Harbor— High School. 
Winterport— High School. 
Winthrop- High School. 
"Wiscasset— Wiscasset Academy. 
Yarmouth- 
High School. 

North Yarmouth Academy. 
York Village— York High School. 



STATE IJSTS. 



37 



MARYLAND. 



P'irst group — Public high schools approved by the State Board of Education of Maryland, December, 1914. 

Conditions of approval of " First group " schools: A bona fide enrollment of 80 or more students; 4 or 
more academic teachers — full time or equivalent; a 4 years' course of at least 3(5 actual school weeks in each 
year; courses of study to conform to those prescribed by the State board of education: sufficient library 
and laboratory facilities. 



Annapolis— High School. 
Baltmiore — 

City College. 

Eastern High School. 

High and Training School (colored). 

Polytechnic Institute . 

Western High School. 
Brunswick — High School. 
Cambridge— High School. 
Catonsville— High School. 
Centerville— High School. 
Chestertown — High School. 
Crisfield— High School. 
Cumberland— Allegany County High School. 
Denton— Caroline County High School. 
Easton— High School. 
Elkton— Cecil County High School. 
EUicott City— High School. 



Frederick- 
Boys' High School. 
Girls' High School. 

Frostburg- Beall High School. 

Hagerstown— 

Boys' High School. 
Girls' High School. 

Havre de Grace— High School. 

Lonaconing — Central High School. 

Oakland— High School. 

Pocomoke City— High School. 

Reistertown — Franklin High School. 

Rockville — Montgomery County High School. 

Salisbury— Wicomico County High School. 

Snow Hill— High School. 

Sparrows Point— High School. 

Towson — High School. 

Westminster — High School. 



Second group— Recommended by the board of education as equipped to offer 14 units of coOege preparatory 

work. 



Aberdeen— High School. 
Barton — High School. 
Bel Air— High School. 
Berlin — Buckingham High School. 
Calvert— Agricultural High School. 
Chesapeake City— High School. 
Clinton — Surrattsville High School. 
Delmar — High School. 
Federalsburg — High School. 
Friendsville — High School. 
Hurlock — High School. 
Jarrettsville — High School. 
Middletown — High School. 



Mount Airy — High School. 

North East— High School. 

Oxford— High School. 

Princess Anne— Washington High School. 

Rock Hall— High School. 

Sharptown — High School. 

St. Michaels — High School. 

Sandy Spring — Sherwood High School. 

Sparks — Agricultural High School. 

Street — Highland High School. 

Stockton — High School. 

Trappe— High School. 

Westemport — High School. 



MASSACHUSETTS. 



Public high schools not on the Xew England College Entrance Certificate Board list issued May 12, 1914, 
but approved l)y the State Board of Education of Massachusetts for the privilege of normal-school certi- 
fication for 1914. For such certification 14 high-school imits are required. 



Amesbury— High School. 

Ashfield— High School. 

Boston — High School of Practical Arts. 

Bourne — High School. 

Braintree — High School. 

Canton— High School. 

Chatham— High School. 

Chelmsford Center— High School. 

Easton— High School. 

East Bridgewater — High School. 

Edgartown— High School. 

Essex — High School. 

Fairhaven— High School. 

Great Barrington — High School. 

Hardwick — High School. 



Hopedale— High School. 
Huntington — High School. 
I^enox— High School. 
Ludlow — High School. ' 
Medfield— High School. 
Mendon— High School. 
Millbury— High School. 
Millis— High School. 
Northboro — High School. 
North Chelmsford— High School. 
Northfield— High School. 
Oak Bluffs— High School. 
Orleans— High School. 
Oxford— High School. 
Petersham— High SchooL 



38 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Plainville— High School. 
Reading— High School. 
Rockport— High School. 
Shirley — High School. 
Shrewsbury — High School. 
Southboro — High School. 
South Hadley— High School. 
Spencer — High School. 
Sterling— High School. 



Stockbridge — High School. 
Tisbury — High School. 
Walpole— High School. 
Watertown — High School. 
Westboro — High School. 
West Boylston— High School. 
Weston — High School. 
Wilmington— High School. 



MICHIGAN. 



.\ccredited by the TJniversitj of Michigan, July, 1914. 

"Graduates of schools which have been placed by the imiversity on the approved list are admitted with- 
out examination on presenting a recommendation, signed by the principal of the school, certif j ing that 
they ha\'e satisfactorily done all the work required for admission." 

Units. 

Admission reqiiirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language 2 

Science 1 

(Two subjects of 3 units each from above.) 
Electives 7 



Adrian— High School. 
Albion — High School. 
Allegan— High School. 
Alma — High School. 
Alpena — High School. 
Ann Arbor — 

High School. 

St. Thomas's School. 
Armada — High School. 
Athens— High School. 
Bad Axe— High School. 
Bangor — High School. 
Battle Creek — High School. 
Bay City (east side) — High School. 

(West side)— High School. 

High School. 

Holy Rosary Academy. 

St. James Academy. 

St. Mary's School. 
Beacon — Champion High School. 
Belding — High School. 
Bellaire— High School. 
Bellevue — High School. 
Benton Harbor — High School. 
Benzonia — Academy. 
Berrien Springs — High School. 
Bessemer — High School. 
Big Rapids — 

High School. 

Ferris Institute. • 
Birmingham — High School. 
Blissfield— East Blissfield High School. 
Boyne City— High School. 
Bronson— High School. 
Brown City — High School. 
Buchanan— High School. 
Cadillac— High School. 
Calumet— High School. 
Caro— High School. 
Carson City— High School. 
Cass City— High School. 
Cassopolis— High School. 
Cedar Springs— High School. 
Central Lake— High School. 



Charlevoix — High School. 
Charlotte— High School. 
Cheboygan— High School. 
Chelsea— High School. 
Chesaning— High School. 
Clare— High School. 
Coldwater— High School. 
Coleman— High School. 
Coloma— High School. 
Colon— High School. 
Constantine- High School. 
Coopersville— High School. 
Coranna— High School. 
Croswell— High School. 
Crystal Falls— High School. 
Decatur— High School. 
Detroit— 

Cass High School. 

Central High School. 

Eastern High School. 

Liggett School. 

McMiQan High School. 

University School. 

Western High School. 
Dexter— High School. 
Dollar Bay— High School. 
Dowagiac — High School. 
Dundee— High School. 
Durand — High School. 
East Jordan— High School. 
Eaton Rapids — High School. 
Elk Rapids— High School. 
Elsie— High School. 
Escanaba— High School. 
Evart— High School. 
Fenton — High School. 
Flmt— High School. 
Flushing— High School. 
Fowlerville — High School. 
Frankfort— High School. 
Fremont— High School. 
Galesburg — High School. 
Gaylord — High School. 
Gladstone— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



39 



Gladwin— High School. 
Grand Haven— High School. 
Grand Ledge— High School 
Grand Rapids— 
Academy. 

Catholic High School for Boys. 
Catholic High School for Girls. 
Central High School. 
John Calvin, Jr., Preparatory. 
Sacred Heart Academy . 
Union High School. 
Grass Lake— High School. 
Grayling- High School. 
Greenland— High School. 
Greenville— High School. 
Gwinn— High School. 
Hancock— High School. 
Harbor Beach— High School. 
Harbor Springs— High School. 
Hart— High School. 
Hartford— High School. 
Hastings— High School. 
Highland Park— High School. 
Hillsdale— High School. 
Holland— High School. 
Holly— High School. 
Homer— High School. 
Houghton— High School. 
Howard City— High School. 
Howell— High School. 
Hudson— High School. 
Imlay City— High School. 
Ionia— High School. 
Iron Mountain — High School. 
Iron River— High School. 
Ironwood — 

High School. 
St. A mbrose School. 
Ishpeming— High School. 
Ithaca— High School. 
Jackson— High School. 
Jonesville— High S'^hool. 
Kalamazoo — 
High School. 
Normal Preparatory. 
Nazareth Academy. 
Kalkaska— High School. 
L'Anse— High School. 
Lake Linden— High School. 
Lake Odessa— High School. 
Lansing- 
High School. 
St. Afary's School. 
Lake View— High School. 
Lapeer— High School. 
Lawton— High School. 
Leslie — High School. 
Lowell— High School. 
Ludington — 
High School. 
St. Simon's School. 
Mancelona— High School. 
Manchester— High School. 
Manistee — High School. 
Manistique — High School. 
Manton — High School. 
Marcellus— High School. 



Marine City— High School. 
Marlette— High School. 
Marquette— High School. 
Marshall— High School. 
Mason— High School. 
Mendon— High School. 
Menominee — High School. 
Midland— High School. 
Milan— High School. 
Millington— High School. 
Monroe — 

High School. 
St. Mary's Academy. 
Morenci— High School. 
Mount Clemens— High School. 
Mount Pleasant- 
High School. 
Normal Preparatory. 
Sacred Heart Academy. 
Muskegon — 
High School. 
St. Mary's School. 
Munisiag— High School. 
Nashville— High School. 
Nagaunee — High School. 
Newaygo— High School. 
New Baltimore — High School. 
Newberry — High School. 
Niles— High School. 
North Branch— High School. 
Northvllle— High School. 

Norway— High School. 

Olivet— High School. 

Onaway— High School. 

Ontonagon— High School. 

Orion— High School. 

Otsego— High School. 

Ovid— High School. 

Owosso — High School. 

Oxford— High School. 

Painesdale— High School. 

Paw Paw— High School. 

Pellston— High School. 

Pen twater— High School. 

Petoskey— High School. 

Plain well— High School. 

Plymouth— High School. 

Pontiac— High School. 

Port Huron— High School. 

Portland— High School. 

Rapid River- High School. 

Reading— High School. 

Reed City— High School. 

Republic— High School. 

Richmond— High School. 

River Rouge— High School. 

Rochester— High School. 

Rockford— High School. 

Rockland— High School. 

Romeo — High School. 

Royal Oak— High School. 

Saginaw— 

(East side)— High School. 

St. Mary's School. 
(South side)— SS. Peter and Paul's School. 
(West side)— High School. 

St. Charles— High School. 



40 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



St. Clair— High School. 
St. Ignace— High School. 
St. Johns— High School. 
St. Joseph— High School. 
St. Louis— High School. 
Saline— High School. 
Sandusky— High School. 
Sault Ste. Marie— High School. 
Saranac— High School. 
Schoolcraft— High School. 
Scottville— High School. 
Sebewaing— High School 
Shelby— High School. 
Shephard — High School. 
South Grand Rapids— High School. 
South Haven— High School. 
Sparta— High School. 
Spring AThov— Academy. 
Stanton— High School. 
Sturgis— High School. 



Tecumseh— High School. 
Three Oaks — High School. 
Three Rivers — High School. 
Traverse City — High School. 
Trenton — High School. 
Union City — High School. 
Vassar — High School. 
Vicksburg — High School. 
Vulcan— High School. 
Wakefield— High School. 
Watervliet — High School. 
Wajrue — High School. 
West Branch — High School. 
Williamston— High School. 
Wyandotte — High School. 
Yale— High School. 
Ypsilanti — High School. 

Michigan State Normal College, Preparatory. 
Zeeland— High School. 



MINNESOTA. 



Approved by the Minnesota State Education Department and accredited by the T^niversity of Minnesota, 

July, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English '3-4 

Mathematics 2+ 

Electives 7^0 



Ada— High School. 

Adrian — High School. 

Aitkin— High School. 

Akeley— High School. 

Albert Lea- 
High School. 
Albert Lea College, Preparatory Department. 

Alden— High School. 

Alexandria— High School. 

Amboy— High School. 

Annandale— High School. 

Anoka— High School. 

Appleton— High School. 

Argyle— High School. 

Arlington— High School. 

Atwater — High School. 

Aurora— High School. 

Austin— High School. 

Bagley — High School. 

Barnesville — High School. 

Belle Plaine — High School. 

Bemidji — High School. 

Benson — High School. 

Bird Island— High School. 

Biwabik — High School. 

Blackduck— High School. 

Blooming Prairie — High School. 

Blue Earth— High School. 

Brainerd — High School. 

Breckenridge — High School. 

Browns Valley— High School. 

Buffalo- High School. 
Buhl— High School. 

Caledonia — High School. 

Cambridge— High School. 
Canby— High School. 



Cannon Falls— High School. 
Cass Lake — High School, 
("haska— High School. 
Chatfleld— High School. 
Chisholm— High School. 
Clarkfleld— High School. 
Cloquet — High School. 
Cokato— High School. 
Coleraine— 

Greenway High School. 

Olcott High School. 
Collegeville— S?. John's College. 
Cottonwood— High School. 
Crookston — High School. 
Dasscl— High School. 
Dawson— High School. 
Deer River— High School. 
Delano — High School. 
Detroit— High School. 
Dodge Center— High School. 
Duluth— 

Cathedral High School for Boys. 

Cathedral High School for Girls. 

Central High School. 

Industrial High School. 

T^/7/n Sancta Schol'astica. 
Eagle Bend— High School. 
East Grand Forks— High School. 
Elbow Lake— High School. 
Elk River— High School. 
Elmore— High School. 
Ely— High School. 
Eveleth — High School. 
Excelsior — High School. 
Fairfax— High School. 
Fairmont— High School. 



' U.i, must be accompani-vl l>y 1 unils of foreign language. 



STATE LISTS. 



41 



Faribault — 
High School. 
Bethlehem Academy. 
St. Mary's Hall. 
Shattuck Military Academy. 

Farmington— High School. 

Fergiis Falls- 
High School. 
Park Region Luther College. 

Fertile— High School. 

Fosston — High School. 

Frazee — High School. 

Frontenac— Villa Maria. 

Fulda— High School. 

Gaylord— High School. 

Gilbert— High School. 

Glencoe — High School. 

Glenwood— High School. 

Graccville — High School. 

Grand Meadow— High School. 

Grand Rapids— High School. 

Granite Falls— High School. 

Hallock— High School. 

Halstad— High School. 

Harmony — High School. 

Hastings — High School. 

Hawley — High School. 

Hector — High School. 

Henderson — High School. 

Herman — High School. 

Heron Lake — High School. 

Hibbing— High School. 

Hinckley — High School. 

Hopkins — High School. 

Houston — High School. 

Howard Lake — High School. 

Hutchinson — High School. 

International Falls— High School. 

Jackson — High School. 

Janesville — High School. 

Jordan — High School. 

Kasota — High School. 

Kasson — High School. 

Kenyon — High School. 

Kerkoven — High School. 

Lake Benton — High School. 

Lake City— High School. 

Lake Crystal— High School. 

Lakefield— High School. 

Lake Park— High School. 

Lamberton— High School. 

Lanesboro— High School. 

Le Roy — High School. 

Le Suenr — High School. 

Le Sueur Center— High School. 

Litchfield— High School. 

Little Falls— High School. 

Long Prairie— High School. 

Luveme — High School. 

Lyle— High School. 

Mcintosh— High School. 

Mabel— High School. 

Madelia — High School. 

Madison — High School. 

Mankalo — High School. 

Mantorville — High School. 

Maple Lake— High School. 

Mapleton— High School. 



Marshall— High School. 
Milaca— High School. 
Minneapolis — 

Blake School for Boys. 

Central High School. 

East High School. 

Oraham Hall. 

Minnesota College. 

North High School. 

South High School. 

Stanley Hall. 

West High School. 
Minneota — High School. 
Montevideo — 

High School. 

Windom Institute. 
Montgomery— High School. 
Monticello — High School. 
Moorhead — 

Concordia College. 

High School. 
Mora — High School. 
Morris — High School. 
Morton — High School. 
Mountain Lake — High School. 
New Prague — High School. 
New Richland— High School. 
New Ulm — High School. 
Northfleld— High School. 
North St. Paul— High School. 
Norwood— High School. 
Olivia — High School. 
Ortonville — High School. 
Osakis — High School. 
Owatonna — 

High School. 

Pillsbury Academy. 
Park Rapids — High School. 
Paynesville — High School. 
Pelican Rapids— High School. 
Perham— High School. 
Pine City— High School. 
Pine Island— High School. 
Pipestone— High School. 
Plainview— High School. 
Preston — High School. 
Princeton— High School. 
Red Lake Falls— High School. 
Red Wing— 

Academy of the Red Wing Seminary. 

High School. 

Lutheran Ladies' Seminary. 
Redwood Falls— High School. 
Renville— High School. 
Rochester— High School. 
Royalton— High School. 
Rush City— High School. 
Rushford— High School. 
St. Charles— High School. 
St. Cloud— High School. 
St. Janie.s — High School. 
St. Joseph — Convent of St. Benedict. 
St. Louis Park— High School. 
St. Paul— 

Bethel Academy. 

Central High School. 

Mechanic Arts High School. 

Humboldt High School. 



42 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



St. Paul— Continued. 

Johnson— High School. 

St. Joseph Academy. 

St. Paul Academy. 

St. Thomas College. 

The Backus School for Girls. 

The College of St. Catherine. 

The Loomis School. 
St. Paul ParVi— St. Paul's College. 
St. Peter— High School. 
Sandstone— High School. 
Sauk Center— High School. 
Sauk Rapids— High School. 
Shakopee— High School. 
Sherliuni— High School. 
Slayton— High School. 
Sleepy Eye— High School. 
South St. Paul— High School. 
Springfield— High School. 
Spring Grove— High School. 
Spring Valley— High School. 
Staples— High School. 
Stephen— High School. 
Stewartville— High School. 
Stillwater— High School. 
Thief River Falls— High School. 



Tracy — High School. 
Two Harbors— High School. 
Tyler— High School. 
Virginia — High School. 
Wabasha— High School. 
Wadena — High School. 
Walker— High School. 
Warren — High School. 
Waseca— High School. 
Waterville— High School. 
Wayzata — High School. 
Welcome — High School. 
Wells— High School. 
West Concord — High School. 
Wheaton— High School. 
White Bear Lake— High School. 
WUlmar— High School. 
Windom — High School. 
Winnebago — High School. 
Winona- 

High School. 

St. Clare Seminary. 
Winthrop — High School. 
Worthington— High School. 
Young America— High School. 
Zumbrota— High School. 



MISSISSIPPI. 



Affiliated with the University of Mississippi for the year 1914-1.'). 

Units. 

Admission requirements 14 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2J 

History 2 

Electives 6* 



Aberdeen— High School. 

Ackerman— High School. 

Amory — High School. 

Baldwyn— High School. 

Batesville— High School. 

Benton— Agricultural High School. 

Biloxi— High School. 

Blue Mountam— Mississippi Heights Academy. 

Bogue Chitto— High School. 

BoonevOle— High School. 

Brandon — High School. 

Brookhaven— High School. 

Brooklyn— Agricultural High School. 

Brooksville— High School. 

Buena Vista— Agricultural High School. 

Camden — Agricultural High School. 

Canton — High School. 

CentervUle — High School. 

Charleston— High School. 

Clara— Agricultural High School. 

Clarksdale— High School. 

Cleveland— Agricultural High School. 

Collins— High School. 

Columbia— High School. 

Columbus— High School. 

Como— High School. 

Corinth— High School. 

Courtland— Agricultural High School. 

Crystal Springs— High School. 

Derma— Agricultural High School. 

Durant— High School. 

Ecru — High School. 



Ellisville— 

High School. 

Agricultural High School. 
Eupora— High School. 
Fayette— County High School. 
Flora— High School. 
Florence — High School. 
Forest— High School. 
French Camp — Academy. 
Goodman — Agricultural High School.' 
Greenville— High School. 
Greenwood — High School. 
Grenada — High School. 
Gulfport— 

Oulfcoast unitary Academy. 

High School. 
HarpervUle — Agricultural High School. 
Hattiesburg— High School. 
Hazlehurst— High School. 
Hernando — High School. 
Hickory— High School. 
Holly Springs— High School. 
Houston — High School. 
Indianola— High School. 
Itta Bena — High School. 
Jackson — High School. 
Kilmichael— Agricultural High Schoou. 
Kosciusko— High School. 
Kossuth— Agricultural High School. 
Laurel— High School. 
Leakesville— Agricultural High School. 
Lena— Agricultural High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



43 



Lexington— High School. 

Long Beach— High School. 

Long View— Agricultural High School. 

Louisville— High School. 

Lumberton— High School. 

Maben— High School. 

Macon — High School. 

Magnolia— High School. 

Mathiston — Bennett Academy. 

MendenhaU— Agricultural High School. 

Meridian— High School. 

McComb— High School. 

Meadville— Agricultiiral High School. 

Mize— Agricultural High School. 

Montrose— Mississippi Conference Training School. 

Moorhead— Agricultural High School. 

Moss Point— High School. 

Mount Olive— High School. 

Natchez — 

High School. 
Stanton College. 

Nettleton— High School. 

New Albany— High School. 

Newton — High School. 

Oakland— Agricultural High School. 

Okolona— High School. 

Olive Branch— Agricultural High School. 

Oxford- 
High School. 
Agricultural High School. 

Paris — High School. 

Pascagoula — High School. 

Pass Christian— High School. 

Pelahatchie— High School. 

Perkinston — Agricultural High School. 

Pheba — Agricultural High School. 



Philadelphia— High School. 

Pittsboro— High School. 

Pontotoc— High School. 

Poplarville— Agricultural High School. 

Port Gibson — Chamberlain- Hunt Academy. 

Purvis— Agricultural High School. 

Richton — High School. 

Rosedale — High School. 

Sardis — High School. 

Scooba — Agricultural High School. 

Senatobia — High School. 

Shuqualak — High School. 

Slaydon— Agricultural High School. 

Starkville— High School. 

Summit— High School. 

Sumrall — High School. 

Toccopola — High School. 

Tupelo— High School. 

Union — High School. 

Union Church — Agricultural High School. 

Vaiden— High School. 

Vardaman— High School. 

Verona — High School. 

Vicksburg— 

All Saints' College. 
High School. 

Washington — Jefferson Military Academy. 

Water Valley— High School. 

West Point- 
High School. 
Southern Christian College. 

Wiggins— High School. 

Winona— High School. 

WoodviUe — Agricultural High School. 

Yazoo City— High School. 



MISSOURI. 



Approved by the State superintendent of schools and accredited by the University of Missouri, March, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribea units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language 2 

Electives 8 



Adrain— High School. 
Albany— High School. 
Armstrong— High School. 
Aurora — High School. 
Belton— High School. 
Bethany— High School. 
Bloomfleld— High School. 
Bolivar— High School. 
Bonne Terre— High School. 
Boonville — 

High School. 

Kemper Military School. 
Bosworth— High School. 
Bowling Green — High School. 
Braymer— High School. 
Breckenridge — High School. 
Brookfleld— High School. 
Brunswick — High School. 
Butler— High School. 
Gainesville — High School. 
California — High School. 



Camden Point — Missouri Christian College. 

Cameron — High School. 

Campbell— High School. 

Canton — High School. 

Cape Girardeau — High School. 

Carrollton— High School. 

Carterville— High School. 

Carthage— High School. 

Cam thersville— High School. 

Centralia— High School. 

Charleston— High School. 

Chillicothe— High School. 

Clarence — High School. 

Clayton— High School. 

Clinton — High School. 

Columbia- 
High School. 
University High School. 

De Soto— High School. 

Dexter — High School. 

Doniphan — High School. 



44 



ACCUEDITED BECOKDAEV SCHOOLS. 



Edina— High School. 
Eldon— High School. 
Eldorado Springs— High School. 
Elsberiy— High School. 
Everton— High School. 
Excelsior Springs — High School. 
Fau^ax— High School. 
Farmington— 

Carlcton College. 

Elmwood Seminary. 

High School. 
Fayette— 

High School. 

Central College Academy. 
Ferguson— High School. 
Flat River— High School. 
Fredericktown— High School. 
Fulton— High School. 
Gallatin— High School. 
Grant City— High School. 
Green City— High School. 
Greenfield— High School. 
Greenville— High School. 
Hamilton— High School. 
Hannibal— High School. 
Hardin— High School. 
Harrisonville — High School. 
Higginsville— High School. 
Holden — High School. 
Hopkins — High School. 
Huntsville — High School. 
Iberia — Academy. 
Independence— High School. 
Ironton— High School. 
Jackson— High School. 
Jeflerson City— High School. 
Joplin— High School. 
Kansas City — 

Central High School. 

Manual Training High School. 

Northeast High School. 

St. Teresa's Academy. 

Westport High School. 
Kennett— High School. 
Keytesville — High School. 
King City— High School. 
KirksvUle — High School. 
Kirkwood — High School. 
Knobnoster— High School. 
Lamar — High School. 
Lancaster— High School. 
La Plata — High School. 
Lathrop — High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 
Lees Summit — High School. 
Lexington- 
High School. 

Wentworth Military Academy. 
Liberty— High School. 
Linneus — High School. 
Lockwood — High School. 
Louisiana — High School. 
Macon— High School. 
Maitland— High School. 
Maiden — High School. 
Maple wood — High School. 
Marshall— High School. 



Mary ville— High School. 

Mays ville— High School. 

Memphis— High School. 

Mexico— High School. 

Milan- High School. 

Monett— High School. 

Monroe City— High School. 

Montgomery City— High School. 

Mound City— High School. 

Mountain Grove— High School. 

Mount Vernon— High School. 

Neosho— High School. 

Nevada — High School. 

New Franklin— High School. 

New Haven— High School. 

New London — High School. 

New Madrid— High School. 

Norbome— High School. 

Odessa— High School. 

Oregon— High School. 

Osceola— High School. 

Palmyra— High School. 

Paris — High School. 

Perry— High School. 

Perryville — High School. 

Peirce City— High School. 

Platte City— High School. 

Plattsburg— High School. 

Pleasant Hill— High School. 

Polo— High School. 

Poplar Bluff— High School. 

Princeton— High School. 

Richmond— High School. 

Ridgeway— High School. 

Rockport— High School. 

St. Charles— High School. 

St. Joseph- 
Benton High School. 
Central High School. 

St. Louis- 
Central High School. 
Forest Park College A cademy. 
Manual Training High School. 
Hosmcr Hall. 
McKinley High School. 
Mary Institute. 
Smith Academy. 
Soldan High School. 
St. Joseph's Academy. 
Yeatman High School. 

Salem— High School. 

Salisbury— High School. 

Savannah— High School. 

Sedalia— High School. 

Shelbina— High School. 

Shelbyville— High School. 

Sikcston— High School. 

Slater— High School. 

Springfield— High School. 

Stanberry— High School. 

Steelvillc— High School. 

Sweet Springs— High School. 

Trenton— High School. 

Troy— High School. 

Union— High School. 

Unionville — High School. 

Vandal ia— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



45 



Versailles— High School. 
Warrensburg— High School. 
Warsaw — High School. 
Washington— High School. 
Webb City— High School. 
Webster Groves — High School. 



Wellston— High School. 
Wellsville— High School. 
Weston— High School. 
West Plains— High School. 
Willow Springs— High School. 
Windsor— High School. 



MONTANA. 

Approved by the State board of education and accredited by the University of Montana, March, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 4 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language '2 

Science 1 

History 1 

Electives 5 



Anaconda— High School. 

Belt— High School. 

Big Timber— High School. 

Billings— High School. 

Boulder — High School. 

Bozeman— High School. 

Butte— 

Butte Business College. 
Central Catholic High School. 
High School. 

Chinook — High School. 

Chouteau— High School. 

Columbus— High School. 

Conrad— High School. 

Deer Lodge— High School. 

Dillon— High School. 

Eureka— High School. 

Forsyth— High School. 

Fort Benton— High School. 

Glasgow— High School. 

Glendive— High School. 

Great Falls- 
High School. , 
Mount Angela Ursuline Academy. 

Hamilton — High School. 

Harlowtown — High School. 



Havre— High School. 
Helena — 

High School. 

Saint Vincent's Academy. 
Kalispell— High School. 
Laurel— High School. 
Lewis town— High School. 
Libby— High School. 
Livingston— High School. 
Miles City— High School. 
Missoula — 

High School. 

Sacred Heart Academy. 
Moore — High School. 
Plains— High School. 
Philipsburg— High School. 
Poison— High School. 
Pony— High School. 
Red Lodge— High School. 
Roundup — High School. 
Stevensville— High School. 
Terry- High School. 
Townsend— High School. 
Virginia City— High School. 
Victor — High School. 
^^■hitehall— High School. 



NEBRASKA. 



Schools accredited by the University of Nebraska for the year 1912-13. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units — 

English 2 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language 3 

Science 1 

History : 1 

Electives 6 



Adams— High School. 
Ainsworth— High School. 
Albion— High School. 
Alliance— High School. 
Alma — High School. 
Ansley— High School. 
Arapahoe— High School. 
Arlington— High School. 
Ashland— High School. 
Atkinson— High School. 
Auburn— High School. 
Aurora— High School. 



Bancroft— High School. 
Bartley— High School. 
Battle Creek— High School. 
Beatrice— High School. 
Beaver City— High School. 
Beaver Crossing— High School. 
Bellevue — 

Academy. 

Pioneer Union High School. 
Benkelman— High School. 
Benson— High School. 
Bertrand— High School. 



46 



ACCKEDITED SECONDAKV SCHOOLS. 



Bethany— Cotner Academy. 
Bladen— High School. 
Blair- 

DuTM Academy. 

High School. 
Bloomfleld— High School. 
Bloomington— High School. 
Blue Hill— High School. 
Blue Springs— High School. 
Brady- High School. 
Bridgeport— High School. 
Broken Bow— High School. 
Burwell— High School. 
Butte— High School. 
Cambridge— High School. 
Cedar Rapids— High School. 
Central City— High School. 
Chadron— High School. 
Chester— High School. 
Clarks— High School. 
Clay Center — High School. 
College View — Union College Academy. 
Columbus— High School. 
Cook— High School. 
Cozad— High School. 
Crawford— High School. 
Creighton— High School. 
Crete— 

Doane Academy. 

High School. 
Culbertson— High School. 
Davenport— High School. 
David City— High School. 
Diller— High School. 
Dodge— High School. 
Edgar- High School. 
Edison— High School. 
Elgin— High School. 
Elmwood — High School. 
Emerson— High School. 
Eustis— High School. 
Exeter— High School. 
Fairbury— High School. 
Fairfield- High School. 
Fairmount— High School. 
Falls City— High School. 
Franklin— 

Academy. 

High School. 
Fremont— High School. 
Friend— High School. 
Fullerton- High School. 
Geneva— High School. 
Genoa— High School. 
Gering— High School. 
Gibbon— High School. 
Giltner— High School. 
Gordon— High School. 
Gothenburg— High School. 
Grand Island— 

Academy. 

High School. 
Greeley— High School. 
Greenwood— High School. 
Gretna— High School. 
Guide Rock— High School. 
Hardy— High School. 
Hartington— High School. 



Harvard— High School. 
Hastings — 

Academy. 

High School. 

Immaculate Conception Academy. 
Havelock — High School. 
Hebron — High School. 
Holdrege— High School. 
Hooper— High School. 
Humboldt— High School. 
Indianola — High School. 
Jackson — 

High School. 

St. Catherine Academy. 
Kearney— High School. 
Kenesaw— High School. 
Kimball — County High School. 
Laurel — High School. 
Lawrence— High School. 
Lexington — High School. 
Liberty— High School. 
Lincoln- 
High School. 

Nebraska Military Academy. 

St. Theresa's High School. 

School of Agriculture, University of Nebraska. 

Teachers College High School, University of 
Nebraska. 
Lodge Pole— High School. 
Louisville— High School. 
Loup City — High School. 
Lyons — High School. 
McCook— High Schoool. 
Madison— High School. 
Mead — High School. 
Meadow Grove— High School. 
Merna— High School. 
Minden— High School. 
Mitchell— High School. 
Nebraska City- 
High School. 

St. Bernard Academy. 
Neligh— 

Gates Academy. 

High School. 
Nelson— High School. 
Newman Grove— High School. 
Norfolk— High School. 
North Bend— High School. 
North Platte— High School. 
Oakdale— High School. 
Oakland— High School. 
Ogallala— High School. 
Ohiowa— High School. 
Omaha— 

Browncll Hall. 

Creighton Academy. 

High School. 

Mount St. Mary's Seminary. 

Sacred Heart Academy. 

Sacred Heart High School. 
O'Neill- 
High School. 

St. Mary's Academy. 
Orchard— High School. 
Ord- High School. 
Orleans— High School. 
Osceola— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



47 



Overton— High School. 
Oxford— High School. 
Papillion— High School. 
Pawnee City— High School. 
Pender— nigh School. 
Pierce— High School. 
Plainview— High School. 
Plattsmouth— High School. 
Ponca— High School. 
Randolph— High School. 
Ravenna— High School. 
Red Cloud— High School. 
St. Edward— High School. 
St. Paul— High School. 
Sargent — High School. 
Schuyler— High School. 
Scottsblufl— High School. 
Scribner— High School. 
Seward— High School. 
Shelby— High School. 
Shelton— High School. 
Sidney— High School. 
Silver Creek— High School. 
South Omaha— High School. 
Spalding-^ cadem y. 
Spencer — High School. 
Springiield— High School. 
Stanton — High School. 
Sterling— High School. 
Stratton— High School. 
Stromsburg — High School. 



Stuart— High School. 
Superior — High School. 
Sutton— High School. 
Syracuse— High School. 
Table Rock— High School. 
Tecumseh— High School. 
Tekamah— High. School. 
Tilden— High School. 
Trenton— High School. 
Ulysses— High School. 
University Place — 

High School. 

Nebraska Wesleyan Academy. 
Valentine— High School. 
Valley— High School. 
Wahoo— 

High School. 

Luther Academy. 
Wakefield— High School. 
Waterloo— High School. 
Wayne— High School. 
Weeping Water — 

Academy. 

High School. 
West Point— High School. 
Wilber— High School. 
Wisner— High School. 
Wood River— High School. 
Wymore— High School. 
York- High School. 



NEVADA. 



Fully accredited by the University of Nevada, November, 1914. 

"Graduates of such accredited high schools may, on the recommendation of their teacher, be admitted 
to the university in the subjects in which their school has been accredited, but in all other subjects an 
examination will be required. " 

Units. 

Admission requirerhents 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

History 2 

Science 1 

Foreign language 4 

Elective 3 



Carson City— High School. 
Elko— High School. 
Ely— High School. 
Fallon— High School. 
Gardnerville— High School. 
Goldfield— High School. 
Lovelock — High School. 



Reno— High School. 
Sparks— High School. 
Tonopah— High School. 
Virginia City — High School. 
Winnemucca — High School. 
Yerington— High School. 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



"First-class" schools, approved by the New Hampshire Department of Public Instruction, May, 1914, 
These schools have four-year courses, and graduation is on at least 14 units. 



Alton— High School. 
Andover — Proctor Academy. 
Antrim— High School. 
Ashland— High School. 
Atkinson — Atkinson Academy. 
Bath— High School. 
Berlin — High School. 
Bethlehem— H igh School. 
Claremont— Stevens High School. 



Colebrook — Colebrook Academy. 

Concord- 
High School. 
St. Mary's School. 

Contoocook— Hopkinton High School. 

Derry — Pinkerton Academy. 

Dover — High School. 

Enfield- High School. 

Epping — High School. 



48 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Exeter— 

Robinson Seminary. 
Tuck High School. 
Farmington — High School. 
Franconia — Dow Academy. 
Franklin— High School. 
GofEstown— High School. 
Gorham— High School. 
Groveton— High School. 
Hampstead— High School. 
Hampton — Hampton Academy. 
Hanover— High School. 
Haverhill— Haverhill Academy. 
Henniker— High School. 
Hillsborough— High School. 
Hinsdale— High School. 
Hollis— High School. 
Jaflrey (East)— Conant High School. 
Jeflerson- High School. 
Keene — High School. 
Kingston— Sanfeorn Seminary. 
Laconia— High School. 
Lancaster — High School. 
Lebanon — 

High School. 

(West)— High School. 
Lincoln— High School. 
Lisbon— High School. 
Littleton— High School. 
Manchester — 

High School. 

St. Anselm's College. 



Marlborough— High School. 
Meriden — Kimball Union Academy. 
Merrimack (Reed's Ferry)— McOaw Institute. 
Milford — High School. 
Milton — Nute High Scfiool. 
Nashua— High School. 
New Hampton — Literary Institution. 
New iTpswich— A ppleton Academy. 
New London— Co/6:v Academy. 
Newmarket— High School. 
Ne\vport— High School. 
Northwood Centre — Coes Academy. 
Pembroke — Pembroke Academy. 
Penacook — High School. 
Peterborough — High School. 
Pittsfield— High School. 
Plymouth— High School. 
Portsmouth— High School. 
Rochester— High School. 
Somersworth— High School. 
Strafford Center — Austin-Cate Academy. 
Stratford (North)— High School. 
Sunapee — High School. 
Tilton — Tilton Seminary. 
Walpole — High School. 
Warner — Simonds Free High School, 
Whitefleld— High School. 
Wilton— High School. 
Winchester — High School. 
Woodsville— High School. 



NEW JERSEY. 



Approved by the New Jersey State Board of Education, September, 1914. 

"Approved high schools" must maintain curricula covering four full years of work approved by the 
State board of education; the school year must run at least 38 weeks; the recitation periods must average 
40 minutes in length; the teaching force must consist of not less than three teachers; the building must 
be adequate, and must be provided with ample laboratory and library facilities. 



Asbury Park— High School. 

Atlantic City— High School. 

Atlantic Highlands— High School. 

Bayorme — High School. 

Belleville— High School. 

Belvidere— High School. 

Bernardsville— Bernards High School (Township). 

Blairstown — 

Blair Hall. 

High School. 
Bloomfleld— 

German Theological School. 

High School. 
Boonton — High School. 
Bordentown— 

Bordentown Military Institute. 

High School. 
Bound Brook— High School. 
Bridgeton — 

High School. 

Ivy Hall. 
Burlington— High School. 
Butler— High School. 
Caldwell— 

High School. 

Mount St. Dominic Academy. 
Camden— High School. 
Cape May City— High School. 



Cape May Court House— High School. 
Chatham— High School. 
Clayton— High School. 
Clifton— High School (To\vnship) 
Clinton— High School. 
Closter— High School. 
Collingswood— High School. 
Convent — 

St. Elizabeth's College, School of Pedagogy. 

St. Elizabeth's Preparatory School. 
Cranford— High School. 
Dover- High School. 
East Orange — High School. 
Elizabeth — 

High School. 

Pingry School. 

St. Patrick's High School. 

Vail-Dcane School. 
Elmer— High School. 
Englewood — 

D wight School for Girls. 

High School. 
Essex FeWs—Kingsley School for Boy». 
Flemington— High School. 
Fort Lee— Holy Angels Academy. 
Freehold- 
High School. 

New Jersey Military Academy. 



STATE LISTS. 



49 



Glassboro — High School. 
Glen Ridge — High School. 
Gloucester City — High School. 
Hackensack— High School (To^vnship). 
Hackettstown — 

Centenary Collegiate Institute. 

High School. 
Haddontield— High School. 
Haddon Heights — High School. 
Hamburg— High School (Township). 
Hammonton — High School. 
Harrison — High School. 
High Bridge — High School. 
Hightsto^vn — Pcddie Institute. 
Hoboken — 

High School. 

Sacred Heart Academy. 

Stevens Preparatory School. 
Hopewell— High School. 
Irvington— High School. 
Jamesburg — High School. 
Jersey City- 
Dickinson High School. 

Lincoln High School. 

St. Aloysius Academy. 

St. Dominic's Academy. 

St. Peter's High School. 
Kearney — High School. 
Kenilworth — Upsala College. 
Keyport— High School. 
Lakewood^ 

High School. 

Lakewood School. 
Lambertville— High School. 
LawTenceville — Lawrenceville School. 
Leonardo — High School (To^xTiship). 
Leonia— High School. 
Lindon— High School. 
Long Branch- 
High School. 

Star of the Sea Academy. 
Madison— High School. 
Manasquan— High School. 
Matawan— High School. 
Metuchen— High School. 
Millbum— High School (Township). 
Millville— High School. 
Montclair — 

Academy. 

High School. 
Moorestown — 

Friends' Academy. 

Friends' High School. 

High School. 
Morristo^^Ti — 

High School. 
Morris Academy. 
Morristown School. 
Mount Holly— High School (Township). 
Xetcong— High School. 
Newark — 

Academy. 

Barringer High School. 

Central High School. 

East Side High School. 

South Side High School. 

St. Benedict's College, Academic Department. 
75087° 



Newark— Continued . 

St. Mary's Academy. 

St. Vincent's Academy. 

Miss Townsend' s School. 
New Bnmswick— 

High School. 

Rutgers Preparatory School. 

St. Peter's School. 
Newton — English and Classical School. 
Nutley— High School. 
Ocean City— High School. 
Ocean Grove— High School (TowTiship). 
Orange — 

Miss Beard's School for Girls. 

Cartaret A cademy. 

Dearborn- Morgan School. 

High School. 
Palmyra— High School. 
Park Ridge— High School. 
Passaic— High School. 
Paterson — 

High School. 

Hoover School. 
Paulsboro— High School. 
Pemberton— High School. 
Pennington— SfTninory. 
Perms Grove— High School. 
Perth Amboy— High School. 
Phillipsburg— High School. 
Plainfield — 

College of Mount St. Mary, Academic Depart- 
ment. 

High School. 

Leal School for Boys. 

North Plainfield High School. 
Point Pleasant— High School. 
Princeton- 
High School. 

Preparatory School. 
Rahway— High School. 
Ramsey— High School. 
Red Bank— High School. 
Ridgefleld Park— High School. 
Ridgewood— High School. 
Rockaway— High School. 
Roselle— High School. 
Roselle Park— High School. 
Rutherford— High School. 
Salem— High School. 
Shiloh— High School (Township). 
Somerville— High School. 
South Amboy— High School. 
South Orange- 
High School. 

Seton Hall College, Academic Department. 
South River— High School. 
Succasunna— High School (Township). 
Summit — 

CarltonAcademy. 

High School. 

Kent Place School for Girls. 
Sussex— High School. 
Toms River— High School (Township). 
Town of Union— High School. 
Trenton — 

High School. 

Sacred Heart Academy. 



50 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



Trenton— Con tinued . 

St. Mary's High School. 

State Model High School. 
Tuckahoe— High School (Township). 
Tuckerton— High School. 
Verona— High School. 
Vineland— High School (Township). 
Washington— High School. 
Wenonah — Military Academy. 
Westfield— High School. 



West Hoboken— 

High School. 

St. Michael's Monastery. 
West Orange — High School. 
Westwood — High School. 
Wildwood— High School. 
Woodbine— High School. 
Woodbridge— High Schools 
Woodbury— High School. 
Woodstown— High School. 



NEW MEXICO. 



Tentative list of public high schools accredited by the University of New Mexico, May, 1914. 

The university has as yet made no formal list of accredited schools, but states that the work of the follow- 
ing schools is accepted in whole or in part fulfillment of the university admission requirements. 



Admission requirements 
Prescribed unics: 

English 

Mathematics 

Language 

Science 

History 

Electives 



Units. 
15 

3 

2J 

2 

1 

1 

5i 



Alamogordo- High School. 
Albuquerque— 

High School. 

University of New Mexico, Preparatory 
partment. 
Artesia— High School. 
Aztec— High School. 
Carlsbad— High School. 
Carrizozo — High School. 
Clayton— High School. 



De- 



Clovis— High School. 

Deming — High School. 

Farmington — High School. 

East Las Vegas — Las Vegas High School. 

Portales — High School. 

Raton — High School. 

Roswell — High School. 

Santa Fe— High School. 

Santa Rosa— High School. 

Tucumcari — High School. 



The Department of Education of New Mexico gives the following list of high schools whose course of 
study would probably conform to the conditions for approval passed by the State board of education, Feb- 
ruary 4, 1914. 

Units. 

Graduation requirements for approved course of study 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

Foreign language 2 

History 1 J 

Science 1 J 

Industrial education | 

Civics I 

Electives 4 



Albuquerque- 
High School. 

University of New Mexico, Preparatory De- 
partment. 

Artesia— High School. 

Carlsbad — High School. 

Clovis— High School. 

Deming— High School. 

East Las Vegas- 
Las Vegas High School. 

New Mexico Normal University, Preparatory 
Department. 



Farmington — High School. 

Gallup — High School. 

Raton— High School. 

Roswell — 

High School. 

New Mexico Military Institute. 

Santa Fe— High School. 

Silver City— New Mexico Normal School, Prepara- 
tory Department. 

State College — New Mexico College of Agriculture 
and Mechanic Arts. 

Tucumcari— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



51 



NEW YORK. 

'State or incorporated high schools for instruction in secondary branches of education, but not autliorized 
to confer degrees, and such high scliools, academic departments, and union schools, and similar incorpo- 
rated schools as are admitted by the regents of the university as of academic grade," excluding all 
institutions or schools which are not registered as affording suitable facilities for maintaining an approved 
course of four years of academic work.— Handbook No. 24, State of New York, Education Department, 
October, 1914. 



Adams— High School. 
Addison— High School. 
Afton— High School. 
Akron— High School. 
Albany— 

Academy of the Holy Names. 

Albany Academy. 

Albany Academy for Girls. 

Cathedral Academy. 

Christian Brothers Academy. 

Female Academy of Sacred Heart. 

High School. 

New York State Normal College, High School 
Department. 

St. Agnes School. 

St. John's Academy. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 
Albion — High School. 
Alden— High School. 
Alexander— High School. 
Alexandria Bay— High School. 
Alfred— 
Alfred Academy. 
Union School. 
Allegany— 

High School. 

St. Bonaventure's College. 

St. Elisabeth's Academy. 
Almond: High School. 
Altamont— High School. 
Amen ia— High School. 
Amityville — 

High School. 

Queen of the Rosary Academy. 
Amsterdam — 

High School. 

St. Mary's CathoUc Institute. 
Andes — Hilton Memorial High .School. 
Andover— High School. 
Angelica — ^Wilsonian High School. 
Angola— High School. 
Antwerp — High School. 
Arcade — High School. 
Argyle— High School. 
Attica— High School. 
Auburn— High School. 
Aurora — Cayuga LaJce Academy. 
Ausable Forks — High School. 
Avoca— High School. 
Avon— High School. 
Babylon— High School. 
Bainbridge— High School. 
Baldwin— High School. 
Baldwinsville— Free Academy. 
Ballston Spa— High School. 
Barker — High School. 
Batavia— High School. 



Bath— Haverlmg High School. 
Bay Shore— High School. 
Belfast— High School. 
Belleville- 
High School. 

Union Academy of Belleville. 
Belmont— High School. 
Berlin- High School. 
Bergen — High School. 
Binghamton — 

High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 
Black River— High School. 
Blasdell— High School. 
Bolivar— High School. 
Boonville— High School. 
Brasher Falls — Brasher and Stockholm High 

School. 
Brentwood — Academy of St. Joseph. 
Brewster— High School. 
Bridgehampton — High School. 
Brocton— High School. 
Brookfield — High School. 
Brooklyn- 

Adelphi Academy. 

Bay Ridge High School. 

Berkeley Institute for Young Ladies. 

Boys' High School. 

Brooklyn College, High School Department. 

Bushwick High School. 

Commercial High School. 

Eastern District High School. 

Erasmus Hall High School. 

Girls' High School. 

Manual Training High School. 

Packer CoUegiate Institute. 

Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. 

St. Agnes Female Seminary. 

St. Angela's Hall Academy. 

St. Francis Academy. 

St. Francis Xavier's Academy. 

St. James Academy of Brooklyn. 

St. John's Academy of Brooklyn. 
BrownviUe — BrownviUe-Glen Park High School. 
Brush ton— High School. 
Buffalo- 

Academy of Sacred Heart. 

Buffalo Seminary. 

Canisius College, Academic Department. 

Central High School. 

Holy Angels Academy. 

Holy Angels Collegiate Institute. 

Institute of Sisters of St. Joseph. 

Lafayette High School. 

Mary Immaculate Academy. 

Masten Park High School. 

Mount Mercy Academy. 



52 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



Buffalo — Continued. 

Nichols School of Buffalo. 

St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute. 

St. Margaret's School. 

St. Mary's Academy and Industrial Female 

School. 
Technical High School. 
Caledonia— High School. 
Cambridge— High School. 
Camden— High School. 
Camillus— High School. 
Canajoharie- High School. 
Canandaigua—^ca(?f ???;/. 
Canaseraga— High School. 
Canastota— High School. 
Candor— High School. 
Cani.st60— High School. 
Canton— High School. 
Cape Vincent— High School. 
Carmel— 

Drew Seminary for Young Women. 
High School. 
Carthage— 

Augustinian Academy. 
High School. 

West Carthage High School. 
Castile— High School. 
Catskill— 

Free Academy. 
St. Patrick's Academy. 
Cato— High School. 
Cattaraugus— High School. 
Cazenovia — 

Cazenovia Seminary. 
Union School. 
Center Moriches— High School. 
Central Square— High School. 
Champlain— High School. 
Charlotte— High School. 
Chateaugay— High School. 
Chatham— High School. 
Chautauqua— High School. 
Cherry Creek— High School. 
Cherry Valley— High School. 
Chester— High School. 
Chittenango— Yates High School. 
Churchville— High School. 
Clarence— Parker High School. 
Clayton— High School. 
Clayville— High School. 
Clifton Sprmgs— High School. 
Clinton— High School. 
Clyde— High School. 
Clymer— High School. 
Cobleskill— High School. 
Coeymans— High School. 
Cohocton— High School. 
Cohoes— 

Egberts High School. 
St. Bernard's Academy. 
Cold Spring— Haldane High School. 
Collins Center— Union School. 
Cooperstown- High School. 
Copenhagen— High School. 
Corfu— High School. 



Corinth — High School. 
Corning— 

Cornmg Free Academy. 
Northside High School. 
Cornwall— High School. 
Cornwall-on-Hudson— 
High School. 

New York Military Academy. 
The Stone School. 
Cortland— High School. 
Coxsackie— High School. 
Cuba— High School. 
Dansville— High School. 
Delevan— High School. 

Delhi— Delaware Academy and Union School. 
Depew— High School. 
Deposit— High School. 
DeRuyter— High School. 
Dexter— High School. 
Dobbs Ferry — 
High School. 
Misses Masters School. 
Dolgeville— High School. 
Dover Plains— High School. 
Downsville— High School. 
Dryden— High School. 
Dundee— High School. 
Dvmkirk — 

High School. 
St. Mary's Academy. 
EarlviUe— High School. 
East Aurora— High School. 
East Bloomfleld— High School. 
East Hampton— High School. 
East Pembroke— High School. 
East Rochester— High School. 
East Syracuse— High School. 
Edmeston— High School. 
Elba— High School. 
Elbridge— High School and Academy. 
Elizabethtown— High School. 
Ellenville— High School. 
Ellicottville— High School. 
Ellington— High School. 
Elmhurst— Newtown High School. 
Elmira— Free Academy. 
Elmira Heights— High School. 
Essex— High School. 
Evans Mills— High School. 
Fabius— High School. 
Fair Haven— High School. 
Fahjiort- High School. 
Falconer— High School. 
Far Rockaway— High School. 
Fayetteville— High School. 
Fillmore— High School. 
Fishkill-on-Hudson— High School. 
Florida— S. S. Seward Institute. 
Flushing— High School. 
Fonda— High School. 
Fordham— S«. John's College High School, Fordham 

University. 
Forestville— Free Academy. 
Fort Ann— Union School. 
Fort Covington— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



53 



Fort Edward— 

Collegiate Institute. 

High School. 
Fort Plain— High School. 
Frankfort— High School. 
Franklin — 

Academy. 

Delaware Literary Institute and Union School. 
Franklinville- Ten Broeck Free Academy. 
F'reeport- High School. 
Freevillc — 

High School. 

Hunt Memorial School. 
Frewsburg — High School. 
Friendship — High School. 
Fulton— High School. 
Fultonville — High School. 
Gainesville — High School. 
Garden City — Cathedral School of St. Mary. 
Gardenville- High School. 
Geneva— High School. 
Gilbertsville — High School. 
Glen Cove— High School. 
Glens Falls— 

Academy. 

High School. 

St. Mary's Academy. 
Gloversville— High School. 
Goshen— High School. 
Gouverneur — High School. 
Gowanda — High School. 
Granville— High School. 
Great Neck— High School. 
Greene— High School. 
Greenport — High School. 
Greenwich — High School. 
Griegsville— High School. 

Griffin Comers — Griffin-Fleischmann's High School. 
Groton — High School. 
Hamburg— High School. 
Hamilton— High School. 
Hammondsport— High School. 
Hancock— High School. 
Hannibal— High School. 

Hardwick — Hardwick Seminary, Academic De- 
partment. 
Harrison— High School. 
Harrisville— High School. 
Hastings upon Hudson — Hastings-on-Hudson 

High School. 
H avers traw— High School. 
Hempstead— High School. 
Herkimer- High School. 
Hermon — High School. 
Highland — High School. _ 

Highland Falls- 
High School. 

Lady Cliff Academy. 
HiUsdale— High School. 
Hilton— High School. 
Hobart— High School. 
Holland Patent— High School. 
Holley— High School. 
Homer — Academy and Union School. 
Honeoye — High School. 
Honeoye Falls— High School. 



Hoosick Falls — 
High School. 
St. Mary's Academy. 

Hornell— High School. 

Horseheads— High School. 

Houghton— Houghton Wesleyan Methodist Seminary. 

Hudson— High School. 

Hudson Falls— High School. 

Hunter— High School. 

Huntington— High School. 

Ilion— High School. 

Indian Lake— Indian Lake School. 

Interlaken— High School, 

Irvington— High School. 

Islip— High School. 

Ithaca — 

Cascadilla School. 
High School. 
The Sturgis School. 

Jamaica— High School. 

Jamestown— High School. 

Jamesville— High School. 

Jefferson— High School. 

Johnstown— High School. 

Jordan — Free Academy. 

Katonah— High School. 

Keeseville— High School. 

Kenmore— High School. 

Kenwood — Female Academy of Sacred Heart. 

Keuka Park — Eeuka Institute. 

Kingston- 
Kingston Free Academy. 
Ulster Free Academy. 

Lackawanna — High School. 

Lake George — High School. 

Lakemont— PaZmer Institute, Starkey Seminary. 

Lake Placid— High School. 

Lake Placid Club — Lake Placid School. 

Lakewood — High School. 

Lancaster- 
High School. 
St. Mary's High School. 

Lansingburg — High School. 

La\vrence — High School. 

Le Roy — High School. 

Lestershire — High School. 

Liberty — High School. 

Lima — Genesee Wesleyan Seminary. 

Limestone — High School. 

Little Falls- 
High School. 
St. Mary's Academy. 

Little Valley— High School. 

Liverpool — High School. 

Livingston Manor — High School. 

Livonia — High School. 

Loekport — 

High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy and Industrial Female 
School. 

Locust Valley — Friends Academy. 

Long Island City— Bryant High School. 

Lowville— Union School. 

Luzerne — Hadley Luzerne High School. 

Lynbrook— High School. 

Lyndonville— High School. 



54 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Lyons— High School. 
Lj'ons Falls — High School. 
Macedon — High School. 
McGraw— McGrawville High School 
Machias — High School. 
Madrid— High School. 
Malone — 

Franklin Academy. 

St. Joseph's Academy of Malone. 
Mamaroneck — 

High School. 

Rye Neck High School. 
Manchester — High School. 
Manlius — 

High School. 

St. John's Military School. 
Marathon— High School. 
Marcellus— High School. 
Margaretville— High School. 
Marion— High School. 
Massena— High School. 
Matteawan — High School. 
Mayville— High School. 
Mechanicsville— High School. 
Medina— High School. 
Mexico — Academy and High School. 
Middleburg— High School. 
Middleport— High School. 
Middletown— High School. 
Middleville— High School. 
Milford— High School. 
Millbrook — Memorial School. 
Millerton — High School. 
Mineville— High School. 
Mohawk— High School. 
Moira— High School. 
Monroe — 

High School. 
The Mackenzie School. 
Montgomery — High School. 
Monticello — High School. 
Montour Falls — Cook Academy. 
Mooers— High School. 
Moravia — High School. 
Moriah — Sherman Collegiate Institute. 
Morris— High School. 
Morrisville— High School. 
Mount Hope— Si. Clare's School. 
Mount Kisco— High School. 
Mount Morris— High School. 
Mount Vernon— High School. 
Naples — High School. 
Newark— High School. 
Newark Valley— High School. 
New Berlin— High School. 
New Brighton — 

Curtis High School. 
Staten Island Academy. 
Newburgh— Free Academy. 
Newfield— High School. 
New Hartford— High School. 
Newport— High School. 
New Rochelle— 
High School. 
Ursuline Seminary. 



New Woodstock — High School. 
New York— 

Academy of Mount St. Ursula. 

All Hallows Institute. 

All Saints Academy. 

Barnard School for Boys. 

Barnard School for Girls. 

Berkeley School. 

Cathedral High School. 

Charlton School. 

College of the City of New York, Academic De- 
partmcnt. 

College of Mount St. Vincent, Academic Depart- 
ment. 

Columbia Grammar School. 

De Witt Clinton High School. 

De La Salle Institute. 

Dominican Academy. 

Ethical Culture School. 

Female Academy of Sacred Heart. 

Hamilton Institute for Boys. 

Hamilton Institute for Girls. 

High School of Commerce. 

Holy Cross Academy of Manhattan. 

Horace Mann School ( Teachers College). 

Jamaica High School. 

Julia Richman High School. 

La Salle Academy. 

Manhattan College, Academic Department. 

Morris High School. 

New York Collegiate Institute. 

Normal College of the City of New York, High 
School Department. 

Regis High School. 

St. Ann's Academy. 

St. Catharine's Academic School of New York. 

St. Gabriel's Academy of Manhattan. 

St. Lawrence Academy of Manhattan. 

St. Walburga's Academy. 

Seudder School for Girls. 

Stuyvesant High School. 
Trinity School. 

Ursuline Academy. 

Wadleigh High School. 

Washington Irving High School. 

Xavier High School, College of St. Francis Xavier. 
Niagara Falls — 

De Veaux School. 

High School. 
Niagara University— JViapara University, Academic 

Department. 
Nichols— High School. 
Norfolk— High School. 
North Chili — A. M. Chesbrough Seminary. 
North Cohocton— North Cohocton and Atlanta 

Union High School. 
North Collms— High School. 
Northcreek— High School. 
Northport — High School. 
North Tarrytown— High School. 
North Tonawanda — High School. 
Northville— High School. 
Norwich — High School. 
Norwood— High School. 
Nimda— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



55 



Nyaek— 

High School. 

Wilson Memorial Academy. 
Oakfield— High School. 
Ocean Side— High School. 
Ogdensburg — St. Mary's Academy. 
Olean— High School. 
Oneida— High School. 
Oneonta— High School. 
Onondaga Valley— Onondaga Free Academy. 
Ontario — High School. 
Orchard Park — High School. 
Oriskany Falls— High School. 
Ossining — 

High School. 

Mount Pleasant Academy. 
Oswego — 

High School. 

St. Paul's Academy. 
Otego — High School. 
Ovid— High School. 
Owego — Free Academy. 
Oxford — Academy and Union School. 
Oyster Bay — High School. 
Painted Post — High School. 
Palmyra — Classical High School. 
Parish— High School. 
Parkers— High School. 
Patchogue — High School. 
Pawling— 

High School. 

Pawling School. 
Pearl River— High School. 
Peekskill— 

Drum Hill High School. 

Military Academy. 

Oakside High School. 

Westchester Military Academy. 
Penn Yan — Academy. 
Perry— High School. 
Phelps— Union and Classical School. 
Philadelphia— High School. 
Phoenix — High School. 
Piermont — Tappan Zee High School. 
Pike— Seminary High School. 
Pine Plains — Seymom' Smith Academy. 
Pittsford- High School. 
Plattsburg— 

D' Youville Academy. 

High School. 
Pleasantville — High School. 
Poland— High School. 
Port Byron— High School. 
Port Chester— High School. 
Port Henry— 

Champlain Academy. 

High School. 
Port Jeflerson — High School. 
Port Jervis — High School. 
Port Ley den— High School. 
Portville — High School. 
Port Washington — High School. 
Potsdam— High School. 
Poughkeepsie— High School. 
Prattsburg— Franklin Academy and Prattsbiirg 
High School. 



Pulaski- Academy and Union School. 
Randolph— 

Chamberlain Military In.^iitule. 

High School. 
Ravena— High School. 
Red Creek— High School. 
Red Hook— High School. 
Remsen — High School. 
Rensselaer— 

High School. 

St. John's Academy. 
Rhinebeck— High School. 
Richfield Springs — High School. 
Richmond Hill— High School. 
Richmondville — High School. 
Ripley— High School. 
Riverhead— High School. 
Rochester — 

Female Academy of Sacred Heart. 

High School, East. 

High School, West. 

Nazareth Academy. 

Rochester Catholic High School. 

Wagner Memorial Lutheran College. 
Rockville Center— South Side High School. 
Rome — 

Academy of the Holy Names. 

Rome Free Academy. 

St. Aloysius Academy. 
Roscoe — High School. 
Roslyn — High School. 
Round Lake — Summer Institute. 
Rouses Point — High School. 
Roxbury — High School. 
Rushford— High School. 
Rushville— High School. 
Russell— Knox Memorial High School. 
Rye- 
High School. 

Seminary. 
Sacket Harbor— Sacket High School. 
Sag Harbor — Pierson High School. 
St. Johnsville— High School. 
St. Lawrence — Evander Childs High School, 
St. Regis Falls— High School. 
Salamanca — High School. 
Salem — Washington Academy. 
Sandy Creek — High School. 
Saranac Lake — High School. 
Saratoga Springs- 
High School. 

St. Faith's Academy. 
Saugerties— High School. 
Savannah — High School. 
Savona — High School. 
Sayville — High School. 
Schaghticoke— High School. 
Schenectady— 

High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 
Schenevus— High School. 
Schoharie— High School. 
Schuylerville — High School. 
Scio — High School. 
Scotia — High School. 
Scottsville— High School. 



56 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Sea Cliff— High School. 

Seneca Falls— Mynderse Academy. 

Sharon Springs— High School. 

Shelter Island— High School. 

Sherburne — High School. 

Sherman— High School. 

Shortsville— High School. 

Sidney— High School. 

Silver Creek— High School. 

Silver Springs— High School. 

Sinclairville — High School. 

Skaneateles — High School. 

Sodus— High School. 

Solvay— High School. 

South Dayton— Union School. 

South Glens Falls— High School. 

South Otselic— High School. 

Southampton — High School. 

Southold— High School. 

Spencer— High School. 

Spencerport— High School. 

Spring Valley— High School. 

Springville— Griffith Institute and Union School. 

Stamford— Seminary and Union School. 

Stillwater— High School. 

Stony Point— High School. 

Suffem— High School. 

Syracuse — 

Academy of Sacred Heart. 

Central High School. 

Christian Brothers Academy. 

Goody ear- Burlingame School. 

North High School. 

St. John's Catholic Academy. 

St. Lucy's Academy. 

Technical High School. 

Travis Preparatory School. 
TannersviUe — High School. 
Tarrytown — 

Hackley School. 

The Knox School. 

Washington Irving High School. 
Theresa— High School. 
Ticonderoga— High School. 
Tompkinsville — Augustinian Academy. 
Tonawanda— High School. 
Troy— 

Emma Willard School. 

High School. 

Lansingburg High School. 

La Salle Institute. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 

St. Patrick's Academy of Troy. 

St. Peter's Academy. 

Troy Academy. 
Trumansburg— High School. 
Tuckahoe— Waverly High School. 
Tully— High School. 
Tupper Lake— High School. 
Tuxedo Park- Tuxedo High School. 
Unadilla— High School. 
Union— Union-Endicott High School. 
Union Springs- 
High School. 

Odkwood Seminary. 



Utica — 

Catholic Academy. 

Female Academy. 

Free Academy. 
Valatie — High School. 
VaUey Falls— High School. 
Vernon — High School. 
Verona— High School. 
Victor— High School. 
Waddington — High School. 
Walden — High School. 
WallkiU— High School. 
Walton— High School. 
Walworth— High School. 
Warner — High School. 
Warrensburg — High School. 
Warsaw — High School. 
Warwick — Inst itute . 
Waterford- High School. 
Waterloo— High School. 
WatertowQ — 

High School. 

Immaculate Heart Academy. 
WaterviUe— High School. 
Watervliet— 

Academy. 

High School. 

St. Patrick's Academy. 
Watkins— High School. 
Waverly — High School. 
Wayland — High School. 
Webster— High School. 
Weedsport — High School. 
WeUs— High School. 
WeUsviUe— High School. 
Westchester — 

Clason Point Military Academy. 

Westchester Military Academy. 
West Hampton Beach — High School. 
West Winfield— High School. 
Westfleld— Academy and Union School. 
West New BTighton—Westerleigh Collegiate Insti- 
tute. 
Westport— High School. 
White Plains— High School. 
WhitehaU— High School. 
Whitesboro— High School. 
Whitney Point— High School, 
Williamson — High School. 
WilliamsviUe — High School. 
Willsboro— High School. 
W ilson — H igh School . 
Windham— High School. 
Windsor— High School. 
Woodhull— High School. 
Wolcott— Leavenworth Institute and Wolcott High 

School. 
Worcester— High School. 
Wyoming — Middlebury Academy and Union 

School. 
Yonkers— 

High School. 

PMlipse Manor School. 

The Halstead School. 



STATE LISTS, 



57 



NORTH CAROLINA. 



Schools accredited by the University of North Carolina, December, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 14. 

Prescribed units: 

English 3. 

Mathematics 3. 

History 2. 

Greek 2. 

Latin 3. 7 

Elective 0. 3 

Or, instead of 3 last-named: 



Latin. 



3.7 

French or German 2. 

Elective 0. 3 

Or these: 

French 



German . 
Science.. 
Elective. 



2.0 
2.0 
LO 
1.0 



AsheviUe — 

Ashevilk School. 

Bingham School. 

City High School. 

Normal and CollajiaU- Institute. 

St. Genevieve's Academy. 
Chapel Hill— High School. 
Charlotte- 
City High School. 

Horner Military School. 
Durham — 

City High School. 

Trinity Park School. 
Elizabeth City— City High School. 
Flat Rocl^— Fleet School. 
Goldsboro— City High School. 



Greensboro — City High School. 
Henderson— City High School. 
HendeTSonyiHe— Fassifern School. 
Laurinburg — High School. 
Mars Hill — College. 
Marion — High School. 
Oak Ridge — Institute. 
Raleigh— City High School. 
Rutherfordton— Westminster School. 
Tarboro— High School. 
Warren ton — High School. 
'Whitsett— Institute. 
Wilmington— City High School. 
Wilson — High School. 
Winston-Salem— City High School. 



NORTH DAKOTA. 



" First class" schools approved by the State board of education and accredited by the University of North 

Dakota, August, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English ". 3 

Mathematics 2 

History 1 

Science 1 

Foreign language 2 

Eleclive 6 



Beach— Agricultural High School. 

Bismarck— High School. 

Bottiaeau— High School. 

Cando— High School. 

Carrington— Agricultural High School. 

Cas.selton— High School. 

Cavalier— High School. 

Cooperstown — High School. 

Devils Lake— High School. 

Dickinson — High School. 

Drayton— High School. 

Edgeley— High School. 

Enderlin— High School. 

Fargo— High School. 

Grafton— Agricultural High School. 

Grand Forks— High School. 

Hankiason — High School. 

Harvey— High School. 

Hillsboro— High School. 

Hope — High School. 



Hunter— High School. 
Jamestown— 

College Academy. 

High School. 

St. John's Academy. 
Kenmare— High School. 
Lakota — High School. 
La Moure — Agricultural High School. 
Langdon— High School. 
Larimore— High School. 
Lidgerwood — High School. 
Lisbon— High School. 
Mandan — High School. 
Mayville — High School. 
Michigan — High School. 
Minot— High School. 
Minto — High School. 
New Rockford— 

Collegiate Institute. 

High School. 



58 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



Oakes— High School. 
Park River— High School. 
Pembiaa — High School. 
Portland — Bruflai Academy. 
Rolla— High School. 
Rugby— High School. 



St. Thomas— High School. ■ 
Valley City— High School. 
Velva — Agricultural High School. 
AVahpeton- High School. 
Vi'iUiston — High School. 



OHIO. 



Schools accredited by Ohio State University, Januaiy, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 2 

Mathematics 2 

History 1 

Foreign language 2 

Science 1 

E leetives 7 



Ada- 
High School. 

Ohio Northern University, Preparatory Depart- 
ment. 
Akron— 

Buchtel Academy. 

High School. 

South High School. 
Alliance— High School. 
Alpha — Beavercreek Township High School. 
Amherst — High School. 
Antioch — Academy. 
Ashtabula— High School. 
Ashtabula Harbor— High School. 
Athens— High School. 
Austiaburg — Grand River Institute. 
Barberton- High School. 
Bamesville— High School. 
Bellaire— High School. 
Bellefontaine— High School. 
Bellevue— High School. 
Berea — 

Baldwin- Wallace College Academy. 

High School. 
BlufEton— 

College Academy. 

High School. 
Bowling Green— High School. 
Brookville— High School. 
Bryan- High School. 
Bucyrus— High School. 
Cadiz— High School. 
Cambridge— High School. 
Canal Dover— High School. 
Canton— High School. 
Carthage— High School. 
Celina— High School. 
Chardon— High School. 
Chicago— High School. 
Chillicothe— High School. 
Cincinnati — 

Clifton High School. 

Franklin School. 

HartwellHigh School. 

Hughes High School. 

Madisonville High School. 

St. Bernard High School. 

University School. 

Walnut Hills High School. 

Woodward High School. 



Circleville— High School. 
Cleveland- 
Central High School. 

Collinwood High School. 

East High School. 

Glenville High School. 

Lincoln High School. 

South High School. 

Technical High School. 

University School. 

West High School. 
Clyde— High School. 
College Hill- 
High School. 

Ohio Military Institute. 
Columbus — 

Clinton High School. 

East High School. 

High School of Commerce. 

North High School. 

School for Girls. 

South High School. 

St. Mary's of the Springs. 

West High School. 
Columbus Grove— High School. 
Conneaut— High School. 
Coshocton— High School. 
Covington— High School. 
Cuyahoga Falls— High School. 
Danville— Buckeye Township High School. 
Dayton— 

Steele High School. 

Stiver's Manual Training High School. 

St. Mary's Institute. 
Defiance— High School. 
Delaware— High School. 
Delphos— High School. 
Delta— High School. 
Dennison— High School. 
East Cleveland— High School. 
East Liverpool— High School. 
Eaton— High School. 
Elyria— High School. 

Fairmo unt— Cleveland Heights High School. 
Fayette — High School. 
Findlay— High School. 
Fostoria— High School. 
Fredericktown— High School. 
Fremont— High School. 
Galion— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



59 



Gailipolis— High School. 
Geneva— High School. 
Georgetown— High School. 
Germantown- High School. 
Girard- High School. 
Gran-viUe—Doane Academy. 
Greenfield— High School. 
Greenville— High School. 
Hamilton— High School. 
Hicksville— High School. 
Hillsboro— High School. 
Ironton- High School. 
Jackson— High School. 
Jefferson— High School. 
Kent— High School. 
Kenton— High School. 
Lakewood— High School. 
Lancaster— High School. 
Lebanon— High School. 
Leetonia— High School. 
Leipsic — High School. 
Lima— High School. 
Lisbon— High School. 
Lockland— High School. 
Logan— High School. 
London— High School. 
Lorain— High School. 
Mansfield— High School. 
Marietta— High School. 
Marion — 

High School. 

St. Mary's School. 
Martins Ferry— High School. 
Marysville— High School. 
Massillon— High School. 
Mechanicsburg— High School. 
Medina — High School. 
Miamisburg— High School. 
Middletown— High School. 
Milford— High School. 
Millersburg— High School. 
Mingo Junction —High School. 
Montpelier — High School. 
Mount Gilead— High School. 
Mount Vernon— High School. 
Napoleon— High School. 
Nelsonville— High School. 
Newark— High School. 
New Bremen— High School. 
Newcomerstown — High School. 
New Concord— High School. 
New London— High School. 
New Philadelphia— High School. 
Niles— High School. 
North Baltimore — High School. 
Norwalk— High School. 
Norwood— High School. 
Nottingham— High School. 
Oak Harbor— High School. 
Oberlin— 

Academy. 

High School. 



Orrville— High School. 

Ottawa — High School. 

Oxford- 
High School. 
McGufiey High School. 
Oxford College Academy. 

Painesville— High School. 

Piqua— High School. 

Plain City— High School. 

Pleasant Ridge — High School. 

Port Clinton— High School. 

Portsmouth— High School. 

Ravenna — High School. 

St. Clairsville— High School. 

St. Martin— Ursuline Academy. 

St. Marys- High School. 

Salem— High School. 

Sandusky — High School. 

Scio — Academy High School. 

Shelby— High School. 

Sidney— High School. 

South Charleston— High School. 

Springfield- 
High School. 
St. Raphael's School. 

Steubenville— High School. 

Tiffin— 

Heidelberg Academy 
High School. 

Tippecanoe City — High School. 

Toledo- 
High School. 
Smead School. 

Troy— High School. 

Urichsville — High School. 

Upper Sandusky— High School. 

Urbana — 

High School. 
University School. 

Van Wert— High School. 

Wadsworth— High School. 

Wapakoneta— High School. 

Warren— High School. 

Washington Coiu"t House— High School. 

Wauseon — High School. 

Waverly— High School. 

Wellington— High School. 

Wellston— High School. 

Wellsville— High School. 

Westerville— High School. 

Willoughby — High School. 

Wilmington— High School. 

Wooster — 
Academy. 
High School. 

Worthington — High School. 

Wyoming — High School. 

Xenia — High School. 

Youngstown — 

Rayen High School. 
South High School. 

Zanesville — High School. 



60 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



OKLAHOMA. 

Schools approved by the State Board of Education and fully affiliated with the I'niversity of Oklahoma, 

May, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 



Mathematics . 

History 

Science 

Foreign language. 
Electives 



Altus— High School. 

Anadarko— High School. 

Arapaho— High School. 

Ardmore — High School. 

Atoka— High School. 

Bartlesville — High School. 

Beaver — High School. 

Blackwell— High School. 

Carmen — High School. 

Chandler— High School. 

Checotah— High School. 

Chelsea— High School. 

Cherokee — High School. 

Chickasha — High School. 

Claremore — University Preparatory School. 

Cleveland — High School. 

Clinton — High School. 

Coalgate— High School. 

Collinsville — High School. 

Copan — High School. 

Cordell— 

Coriell Christian College. 

High School. 
Gushing — High School. 
Custer City— High School. 
Dewey — High School. 
Dimcan — High School. 
Elk City— High School. 
El Reno— High School. 
Enid- 
High School. 

Phillips University High School. 
Eufaula— High School. 
Fairfax— High School. 
Fairview — High School. 
Frederick— High School. 
Geary— High School. 
Granite — High School. 
Guthrie — 

High School. 

Methodist Universilij, Academy. 
Guymon — High School. 
Hennessey — High School. 
Henryetta — High School. 
Hobart— High School. 
Holdenville — High School. 
Hollis— High School. 
Hugo— High School. 
Kingfisher — 

High School. 

Kingfisher College, Academy. 
Lawton — High School. 
Lexington — High School. 
Lindsay — High School. 
Madill— High School. 



Mangum — High School. 

Marietta— High School. 

McAlester — High School. 

McLoud — High School. 

Medford — High School. 

Miami — High School. 

Mountain View — High School. 

Muldrow — High School. 

Muskogee— High School. 

Newkirk — High School. 

Norman — High School. 

Nowata — High School. 

Okemah — High School. 

Oklahoma — High School. 

Okmulgee — High School. 

Oktaha— High School. 

Pawnee — High School. 

Pauls Valley— High School. 

Pen y— High School. 

Ponca City— High School. 

Pond Creek— High School. 

Porum— High School. 

Poteau— High School. 

Pryor— High School. 

Purcell— High School. 

Ramona — High School. 

Ryan— High School. 

Sallisaw— High School. 

Sapulpa— High School. 

Sayre — High School. 

Shawnee — High School. 

Snyder— High School. 

Stillwater— High School. 

StiUweU— High School. 

Stigler— High School. 

Sulphur— High School. 

Tecumseh — High School. 

Temple— High School. 

Thomas — High School. 

Tishomingo — High School. 

Tonkawa — University Preparatory School. 

Tulsa— 

Henry Kendall College Academy. 

High School. 
Vinita— High School. 
Wagoner— High School. 
Walters — High School. 
Wapanucka— High School. 
Watonga— High School. 
Waurika — High School. 
Weleetka— High School. 
Wilburton— High School. 
Woodward — High School. 
Wynnewood — High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



61 



OHEGON. 



Accredited by tlie University of Oregon, April, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission recjuiremeuls 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics ^ . 2 

History ~ 1 

Science 1 

Electives 8 



Airlie — High School. 

Albany — High School. 

Alsea — High School. 

Amity — High School. 

Arlington— High School. 

Ashland — High School. 

Astoria — High School. 

Athena — High School. 

Baker- 
High School. 
St. Francis Academy. 

Balston— High School. 

Baudon— High School. 

Bay City— High School. 

Bend— High School. 

Brownsville — 
High School. 
(South)— High School. 

Bums— Harney County High School. 

Canby— High School. 

Carlton— High School. 

Central Point — High School. 

Clatskanie— High School. 

Coburg— High School. 

Condon— Gilliam County High School. 

CoquUle — High School. 

Corvallis— High School. 

Cottage Grove — High School. 

Cove— High School. 

Creswell — High School. 

Dallas— High School. 

Dayton— High School. 

Drain— High School. 

Dufur— High School. 

Echo — High School. 

Elgin— High School. 

Elmira^High School. 

Enterprise— Wallowa County High School. 

Estacada — High School. 

Eugene — High School. 

Falls City— High School. 

Florence — High School. 

Forest Grove — High School. 

FossU — Mhpeler County High School. 

Freewater— High School. 

Gervais— High School. 

Glendale — High School. 

Gold HUl— High School. 

Grants Pass — High School. 

Greshant— High School. 

Haines — High School. 

Halfway— High School. 

Halsey — High School. 

Harrisburg — High School. 

Heppner— High School. 



Hermiston — High School. 
Hillsboro— High School. 
Hood River — 

Frankton High School. 

High School. 
Independence— High School, 
lone— High School. 
Jefferson — High School. 
Joseph— High School. 
Junction City— High School. 
Klamath Falls — County High School. 
La Grande— High School. 
Lakeview— High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 
Lexington- High School. 
Marshfield — High School. 
McCoy— High School. 
McMinnville— High School. 
Medford— High School. 
Merrill- High School. 
Milton — 

Columbia Junior College. 

High School. 
Milwaukie — High School. 
Monmouth — High School. 
Monroe — High School. 
Monro— High School. 
Mount Angel — 

Academy. 

College. 
Myrtle Creek— High School. 
Myrtle Points— High School. i 

Nehalem — Union High School. 
Newberg — 

High School. 

Pacific Academy. 
Newport — High School. 
North Bend — High School. 
Nyssa — High School. 
Oakland— High School. 
Ontario — High School. 
Oregon City— High School. 
Parkplace— High School. 
Pendleton— 

High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 
Philomath— High School. 
Pleasant Hill— Union High School No. 1. 
Portland- 

Academy. 

Columbia University. 

Hill Military Academy. 

Jeflerscu High School. 

Lincoln High School. 

St. Helen's Hall. 



62 



ACCREDITED yEGONDARV SCHOOLS. 



Portland — Con tinned . 

St. Joseph's School. 

St. Mary's Academy. 

Washington High School. 

Y. M. C. A . Preparatory School. 
Prairie City— High School. 
Priacville— Crook County High School. 
Rainier — High School. 
Redmond — High School. 
Richmond — High School. 
Riddle— High School. 
Roseburg — High School. 
Salem— High School. 
Scappoose— High School. 
Seaside — High School. 
Sheridan — High School. 
Silverton — High School. 
Springfield— High School. 



Stanfield— High School. 
St. Helen— High School. 
St. Johns — High School. 
Sumpter — High School. 
Sutherlin— High School. 
Tangent— High School. 
Thurston— High School. 
Tillamook — High School. 
The Dalles— High School. 
Toledo— High School. 
Union— High School. 
Vale— High School. 
Waterville — Union High School. 
Wasco— High School. 
Weston — High School. 
WUlamina — High School. 
Woodbnm — High School. 
Yoncalla — High School. 



PENNSYLVANIA. 

Public high schools approved by the State Department of Education of Pennsylvania for the year ended 

July, 1913. 

Requirements for approval: Four years of nine months each; at least three teachers; recitation periods 
40 minutes in length; double periods in laboratory work; a minimum of twenty 40-minute recitations of 
prepared work; adequate equipment for teaching science studies; a reference library covering all the sub- 
jects offered. 

English required in each year; at least one unit of science; two units of mathematics; one unit of history; 
two units of foreign language. 

Graduates of these schools may be admitted to the University of Pennsylvania upon their records. (See . 
extract from letter of Dean A. H. Quinn under private schools accredited by the University of Pennsyl- 
vania.) 



AUentown — High School. 

Altoona— High School. 

Ambridge — High School. 

ArmvUle— High School (Township). 

Ardmore — Lower Morion Township High School. 

Aspiawall — High School. 

Athens — High School. 

Avalon — High School. 

Bangor — High School. 

Beaver — High School. 

Beaver Falls— High School. 

Bedford— High School. 

Bellevue— High School. 

Bellefonte— High School. 

Ben Avon — High School. 

Benton— High School. 

Berwick— High School. 

Berwyn— Easttown-Tredyflrin Township High 

School. 
Bethlehem— High School. 
Birdsboro — High School. 
Blairsville — High School. 
Bloomsburg — 

High School. 

Mount Pleasant Township High School. 
Blossburg— High School. 
Boyertown — High School. 
Braddock — High School. 
Bradford— High School. 
Bristol— High School. 
Brookville— High School. 
Burgettstown— High School. 
Butler— High School. 
Cambridge Springs— High School. 
Canonsburg— High School. 



Canton — High School. 

Carbondale — High School. 

Carlisle — High School. 

Chambersburg — High School. 

Charleroi — High School. 

Chester— High School. 

Clearfield— High School. 

CoatesvUle— High School. 

Cochranton— High School. 

Coraopolis— High School. 

Cormellsville— High School. 

Columbia — High School. 

CoiTy— High School. 

Coudersport — High School. 

Craf ton— High School. 

Damascus— High School. 

Danville— High School. 

Darby— High School. 

Deny — High School. 

Downingtown— High School. 

Doylestown— High School. 

Du Bois— High School. 

Dunmore— High School. 

Duryea— High School. 

Easton— High School. 

East Stroudsburg— High School. 

Elkins Park — Cheltenham High School. 

Emporium— High School. 

Ephrata- High School. 

Erie— High School. 

Everett— High School. 

Farrell- High School. 

Ford City— High School. 

Franklin— High School. 

Freedom— High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



63 



Freeland— High School. 
Freeport— High School. 
Galeton— High School. 
Gettysburg— High School. 
Girard— High School. 
Greensburg— High School. 
Greenville— High School. 
Grove City— High School. 
Hanover— High School. 
Harrisburg— 

High School. 

Technical High School. 
Hawley— High School. 
Hazleton — 

Hazle Township High School. 

High School. 
HoUidaysburg— High School. 
Homestead— High School. 
Honesdale— High School. 
Huntingdon— High School. 
Irwin- High School. 
Jeannette— High School. 
Jenkintown— High School. 
Jersey Shore— High School. 
Johnsonburg— High School. 
Johnstown— High School. 
Juniata — High Scliool. 
Kane— High School. 
Kennett Square— High School. 
Kingston — 

High School. 

Dorranceton High School. 

Forty Fort High School. 
Kittanning— High School. 
Knoxville— High School. 
Lancaster — 

Boys' High School. 

Girls' High School. 
Lansdale— High School. 
Lansdowne — High School. 
Lansford- High School. 
Larksville— High School. 
Latrobe- High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 
Leechburg— High School. 
Lemont Furnace— North Union Township High 

School. 
Lewisburg— High School. 
Lewistown— High School. 
Lititz— High School. 

Llanerch— Haverford Townaship High School. 
Lock Haven — High School. 
Lykens— High School. 
McDonald— High School. 
McKeesport— High School. 
Mahanoy City— High School. 
Manheim— High School. 
Mansfield— High School. 
MarienvUle — Jcnks Township High School. 
Mauch Chunk— High School. 
Meadville— High School. 
Mechanicsburg — High School. 
Media— High School. 
Mercer- High School. 
Meyersdale — High School. 
Middletown — High School. 
Mifflintown— High School. 



Millersburg — High School. 

MQton- High School. 

Mtnersville — High School. 

Mount Carmel— High School. 

Mount Jewett — High School. 

Mount Oliver — Knoxville High School. 

Mount Pleasant — High School. 

Mount Union — High School. 

Monessen — High School. 

Monongahela — High School. 

Montrose — High School. 

Muncy— High School. 

Munhall — High School. 

Nanticoke — High School. 

Narberth— High School. 

Nazareth— High School. 

Nesquehoning— Mauch Chunk Township High 
School. 

New Brighton — High School. 

New Castle — High School. 

New Kensington — High School. 

Newport — High School. 

Norristown— High School. 

Northampton— High School. 

North East— High School. 

North Girard— Girard Township High School. 

Northumberland— High School. 

Oakmont— High School. 

Oil City— High School. 

Oxford— High School. 

Parkesburg— High School. 

Parnassus— High School. 

Pen Argyl— High School. 

Philadelphia- 
Central High School. 
Girls' High School. 
Northeast Manual High School. 
Southern Manual High School. 
West Philadelphia (Boys) High School. 
West Philadelphia High School. 
William Penn High School. 

Phillipsburg— High School. 

Phoenixville^High School. 

Pittsburgh- 
Allegheny High School. 
Fifth Avenue High School. 
High School. 
Peabody High School. 
Pittsburgh Central High School. 
South High School. 

Pittston— 

High School. 

West Pittston High School. 

Port Allegany— High School. 

Pottstown— High School. 

Pottsville— High School. 

Punxsutawney— High School. 

Reading- 
Boys' High School. 
Girls' High School. 

Red Lion— High School. 

Reedsville— Brown Township High School. 

Renovo— High School. 

Ridgway— High School. 

Ridley Park— High School. 

Rochester— High School. 

Boyersford— High School. 



64 



ACCEEDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



St. Marys— High School. 
Sayre— High School. 
Scottdale — High School. 
Scranton — 

High School. 

Technical High School. 
Sewickley— High School. 
Sharon — High School. 
Sheffield— High School. 
Shenandoah— High School. 
Shamokin— High School. 
Shippensburg — High School. 
Slatington— High School. 
Smethport— High School. 
South Bethlehem— High School. 
Somerset— High School. 
Spring City— High School. 
State College— High School. 
Steelton— High School. 
Stroudsburg— High School. 
Sunbury— High School. 
Susquehanna— High School. 
Swarthmore— High School. 
Swissvale — 

High School. 

Park High School. 
Tamaqua— High School, 
larentum— High School. 
Tidioute— High School. 
Titusville— High School. 
Towanda— High School. 



Troy— High School. 

Tunkhannock— High Sclfool. 

Tyrone— High School. 

Union City— High School^ 

Uniontown— High School. 

Vandergrift- High School. 

Wanamie— Newport Towniship High School. 

Warren — High School. 

Washington — 

East Washington High School. 

High School. 
Waterford- High School (Joint). 
Wayne— Radnor High School (Township). 
Waynesboro— High School. 
Waynesburg— High School. 
Wellsboro— High School. 
West Chester— High School. 
Westfield— High School. 
Wilkes-BaiTe— High School. 
Wilkinsburg— High School. 
Williamsport^- 

High School. 

South Williamsport High School. 
Williamstown — High School. 
Windber — High School. 
Woodlawn— High School. 
Yeagertown — Derry Township High School. 
York— High School. 
Youngsville — High School. 
Zelienople — High School. 



Private or secondary schools in Pennsylvania whose work is accepted by the University of Pennsylvania 

(May 23, 1914.) 

"The placing of a school on this accredited list does not mean that we certify to the standing of the 
school in al subjects. Each application for admission upon school record is acted upon individually, 
and a student may be admitted without examination in certain subjects and may take entrance exami- 
nations in other subjects in which his grades have not been sufficiently high to warrant his exemption 
from examination. " (Letter from Dean A. H. Quiim, May 23, 1914.) 

Units. 

Admission requirement 14| 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2i 

History l' 

Two foreign languages i 4 — 7 

Electives 4—1 

Kingston— Wyoming Seminary. 
Lancaster — 

Franklin and Marshall Academy. 

Ycates School. 
Lansford — Lansford School. 

Lewisbmg — Bucknell Academy, Bucknell Uni- 
versity. 
Lewistown — Leivistoivn Preparatory School. 
Mercersburg — Mercer shurg Academy. 
Momit Pleasant — Western Pennsylvania Classical 

and Scientific Institute. 
Myerstown — A Ibright Preparatory School. 
New Bloomfleld — New Bloom field Academy. 
Pennsburg — Perkiomen Seminary. 
Philadelphia — 

Brown Preparatory School. 

Chestnut Hill Academy. 

Be Lancey School. 

Episcopal Academy. 



AUeghany — Alleghany Preparatory School. 
AUentown — Allentoivn Preparatory School. 
Annville— ieftanoTi Valley Academy. 
Bryn Athyn — Academy of the New Church. 
Carlisle — Conway Hall. 
Bellefonte— B€??f/o«fe Academy. 
Bethlehem — 

Bethlehem Preparatory School. 

Moravian Parochial School. 
Chester — Pennsylvania Military College. 
'Ezsion—Easton Academy. 
Factor j^'ille — Keystone Academy. 
Freeland — Mining and Mechanics Institute. 
George School— Gcorj/e School. 
Gettysburg— Gettysburg Academy (Stevens Hall). 
Greensburg — Greensburg Seminary. 
'H.zxxishurg—Harrisburg Academy. 
Jenkintown — Abington Friends' School. 
Kennctt Square— Cedarcrnft School. 



1 If Latin is offered, 4 units must be presented; if CJreek, 3 units. 



STATE LISTS. 



65 



Philadelphia — Continued. 

Friends' Central School. 

Friends' Select School. 

Germantown Academy. 

Germantown Friends' School. 

La Salle College. 

John F. Maker Preparatory School. 

St. Joseph's College High School. 

Temple University Preparatory School. 

William Penn Charter School. 

Phillips Brooks School. 
Pittsburgh — 

Duquesne University High School. 

East Liberty Academy. 

Shady Side Academy. 
Pottstown— The Hill School. 



Reading — Schuylkill Seminary. 
Saltsburg — Kiskiminetas Springs School. 
Scran ton— 

Lackawanna School. 

St. Thomas Aquinas College. 
Swarthmore — Swarthmore Preparatory School. 
Villa Nova — Villa Nova Preparatory. 
Wayne— Si. Luke's School. 
AVest Chester — 

Friends' Graded School. 
Villa Maria. 
Westtown — Westtown Boarding School. 
Wilkes-Barre — Harry Hillman Academy. 
Williamsport — Williamsport Dickinson Seminary. 
York — York County Academy. 



RHODE ISLAND. 



Approved by the Rhode Island State Board of Education, June, 1914. 

For approval, schools must maintain at least 38 weeks in each school year; must employ three or more 
teachers; must have a course of study covering a minimum of 14-J units, and must have adequate laboratory 
and library equipment. 



Ashaway — Hopklnton High School. 

Barrington Center— BaiTington High School. 

Block Island— High School. 

Bristol— High School. 

Central Falls — High School. 

East Providence— High School. 

Hope Valley— High School. 

Newport— Rogers High School. 

Pascoag — Burrillville High School. 

Pawtucket— High School. 

Providence — 

Classical High School. 



Providence — Continued . 

Cranston High School. 

English High School. 

Hope Street High School. 

Technical High School. 
River Point — "Warwick High School. 
Valley Falls— Cumberland High School. 
Wakefield — South Kingston High School. 
Warren— High School. 
Westerly — High School. 
Wickford — North Kingston High School. 
Woonsocket — High School. 



SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Schools accredited by the University of South Carolina, November, 1914. 

Admission to regular freshman standing at the university is on 10 high-school units, and the university 
maintains a list of "approved " schools giving acceptably that amount of work. The "accredited" schools 
listed below, however, are schools giving acceptably 14 units, and their graduates are admitted to advanced 
standing at the university. 



Anderson — High School. 
Bamberg — High School. 
Batesburg— High School. 
Bennettsville— High School. 
Blacksbiug— High School. 
Central— High School. 
Charleston — 

High School. 

Memminger High School. 

Porter Military Academy. 
CUo— High School. 
Darlington— High School. 
Denmark — High School. 
Dillon— High School. 
Fairforest— High School. 
Florence— High School. 
Greenwood— 

Bailey Military Institute. 

High School. 

75087°— 15 5 



Honea Path— High School. 
Johnston — High School. 
Latta— High School. 
LeesviUe— High School. 
Marion— High School. 
MuUins— High School. 
Ninety Six— High School. 
North Augusta— High School. 
Spartanburg— 

Hastoc High School. 

Wojford Fitting School. 
St. Matthews— High School. 
Summerville— High School. 
Sumter— High School. 
Wiimsboro— High School. 
Woodruff- High School. 



66 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



SOUTH DAKOTA. 

No list of approved or accredited high schools is published by the State education department or by the 
State University of South Dakota. A list of South Dakota schools accredited by the North Central Asso- 
ciation of Colleges and Secondary Schools is given on page 92. 

TENNESSEE. 

Schools "fully accredited" by the University of Tennessee, May, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 14 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2J 

Foreign language 4 

Electives 4i 



Ashland City— Cheatham County High School. 

Athens— McMinn County High School. 

Bell Buckle— Webb School. 

Bolivar— High School. 

Brownsville— Haywood County High School. 

Brunswick — Bolton College. 

Cedar Hill— Cedar Hill Institute. 

Chattanooga- 
Central High School. 
City High School. 
Girls' Preparatory School. 
The Mc Callie School. 
University School. 

Chucky — Wesley an Academy. 

Clarksville— Montgomery County High School. 

Columbia— 

Columbia Institute. 

Maury County High School. 

Military A cademy. 

Concord— Farragut High School. 

Covington— Byars-Hall High School. 

Cumberland Gap — Lincoln- Memorial University. 

Dayton— High School. 

Dyer— West Tennessee College. 

Dyersburg— High School. 

Fayetteville— 

Lincoln County High School. 
Morgan School. 

Fountain City— Knox County High School. 

Franklin- 
High School. 
Peoples School. 

GaUatin — Hawkins School. 

Grandview — Grandview Institute. 

Greenfield — Training School. 

Hixson — HamOton County High School. 

Humboldt— High School. 

Huntingdon— Industrial and Training School. 

Jackson— City High School. 

Jasper^Marion County High School. 

Johnson City — Washington County High School. 

Kimberlin Heights— Joftn«ow Academy. 

KnoxvUle — City High School. 

Lawrenceburg— Lawrence County High School. 

Lebanon — Castle Heights School. 

Lenoir City — High School. 

Lewisburg — Price- Webb School. 

LynnvUle — Robert B. Jones High School. 

McKenzie — McTyeire School. 



Madisonville— High School. 
Martin — McFerrin Training School. 
Memphis — 

City High School. 

Higbce School. 

St. Mary's School. 

University School. 

Shelby County High School. 
McMinnvUle— City High School. 
Milan— High School. 
Murfreesboro— High School. 
NashvUle— 

Boscobel College. 

Bowen School. 

Duncan Preparatory School. 

Hume-Fogg High School. 

Montgomery-Bell Academy. 

Nashville Bible School. 

University School. 

Ward-Belmont Seminary. 
Paris— E. W. Grove High School. 
Park City— High School. 
Pleasant Hill— Academy. 
Pulaski— 

High School. 

Martin College. 

Massey School. 
Ripley— High School. 
Sale Creek— High School. 
Savannah — Savannah Institute. 
Sewanee — Military Academy. 
Shelby ville — 

Brandon Training School. 

Dixon Academy. 
Soddy— Hamilton County High School. 
SomervUle — High School. 
Sparta— High School. 
Spencer — Burritt College. 
Springfield— Peop?fs and Tucker School. 
Spring Hill — Branham and Hughes School. 
Sweetwater — Tennessee Military Institute. 
Trenton — 

Peabody High School. 

Training School. 
Tullahoma— Fitzgerald and Clarke School. 
Tyner- Hamilton County High School. 
Union City- 
City High School. 

Training School. 



STATE LISTS. 



67 



TEXAS. 

Schools of "Group I" affiliated with the University of Texas, June 10, 1914. 



Admission requirements . 
Prescribed units: 

English 

Mathematics 

History 

Electives 



Units. 
...14 



Abilene — High School. 
Alice — High School. 
Amarillo— High School. 
Austin — 
Academy. 
High School. 
Kclley School. 
Kenilworth Hall. 
St. Mary's Academy. 
JJniversily Preparatory School, 
filiitis School. 
Ballinger — High School. 
Beaumont — High School. 
Beeville— High School. 
Belton— High School. 
Big Spriug — High School. 
Bonham— High School. 
Bowie— High School. 
Brady— High School. 
Brenham — 

Blinn Memorial College. 
High School. 
Brownwood- High School. 
Bryan — 

Allen Academy. 
High School. 
Caldwell— High School. 
Calvert— High School. 
Cameron— High School. 
Canyon— High School. 
Cisco — 

Britton's Training School. 
High School. 
Clarksville— High School. 
Cleburne— High School. 
Coleman— High School. 
Colorado— High School. 
Comanche — High School. 
Corsicana— High School. 
Corpus Christi— High School. 
Crockett — High School. 
Cuero — John C. French High School. 
Dalhart — High School. 
Dallas — 

The Hardin School for Boys 
High School. 
Oak Cliff High School. 
The Tcrrill School. 
Del Rio— High School. 
Denison— High School. 
Denton — High School. 
Dublin- High School. 
El Paso— High School. 
Ennis — High School. 
Fort Worth- 
High School. 

North Fort Worth High School. 
Gainesville— High School. 



Galveston— Ball High School. 
Garland— High School. 
Gatesville— High School. 
Georgetown— High School. 
Giddings— High School. 
Gonzales— High School. 
Graham— High School. 
Greenville— High School. 
Hamilton— High School. 
Henderson — High School. 
Hereford— High School. 
Hico— High School. 
Hillsboro— High School. 
Honey Grove— High School. 
Houston — 

High School. 

Houston Heights High School. 
Hubbard — High School. 
Huntsville— High School. 
Itasca— High School. 
Kaufman — High School. 
Kerrville- High School. 
Lagrange— High School. 
Lampasas— High School. 
Laredo — High School. 
Llano— High School. 
Longview— High School. 
Lubbock — High School. 
Luf kin— High School. 
Mansfield— High School. 
Marlin- High School. 
Marshall— High School. 
Mart — High School. 
McGregor— High School. 
McKinney — High School. 
Meridian — College. 
Mexia— High School. 
Midland— High School. 
Mineral Wells — High School. 
Mineola — High School. 
Nacogdoches — High School. 
Navasota— High School. 
Orange — High School. 
Palestine— High School. 
Paris- High School. 
Pittsburg — High School. 
Plainview — High School. 
Port Arthur— High School. 
Quanah — High Schpol. 
Rockdale— High School. 
San Angelo — High School. 
San Antonio — 

Academy of Our Lady of the Lake. 

High School. 

Marshall Training School. 

San Antonio Academy. 

West Texas Military Academy. 
San Benito— High School. 



68 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



San Marcos— 

Baptist Academy. 

Coronal Institute. 

High School. 
Seguin— High School. 
Sherman— High School. 
Smithville— High School. 
Stamford— High School. 
Sulphur Springs— High School. 
Sweetwater— High School. 
Taylor— High School. 
Temple— High School. 

Public high schools, in addition to those of "Group I" affiliated with the University of Texas, listed as 
"Class I" by the State Department of Education, September, 1913. 

Schools of Class I must have not fewer than three teachers; a school term of at least eight scholastic 
months; a course of study in which 17f units are required for graduation (a unit being defined as five 
recitations per week in a subject, each recitation being 35 to 40 minutes in length, and the subject being 
pursued for at least 36 weeks); laboratory apparatus sufficient to offer at least 2J units In high-school 
sciences. 



Terrell— High School. 
Texarkana — High School. 
Tyler— High School. 
Uvalde— High School. 
Victoria— High School. 
Waco — High School. 
Waxahachie— High School. 
Weatherford — High School. 
Wichita Falls — High School. 
Winnsboro — High School. 
Yoakum — High School. 



Alvarado— High School. 
Alvin— High School. 
Angleton— High School. 
Anson — High School. 
Arlington— High School. 
Atlanta— High School. 
Baird— High School. 
Bartlett— High School. 
Bastrop— High School. 
Bay City— High School. 
Belleville— High School. 
Bracketville— High School. 
Bridgeport — High School. 
BrowTisville— High School. 
Burnet— High School... 
Carthage— High School. 
Celeste — High School. 
Center — High School. 
Childress— High School. 
Clarendon— High School. 
Columbus— High School.. 
Commerce— High School. 
Conroe- High School. 
Cooper — High School. 
Cotulla— High School. 
Decatur— High School. 
De Leon— High School. 
Devine — High School. 
Eagle Lake— High SchooL 
Eagle Pass— High School. 
Edna— High School. 
El Campo— High School. 
Elgin- High School. 
Falfmrias- High School. 
Farmersville— High School. 
Ferris — High School. 
Floresville — High School. 
Floydada— High School. 
Forney— High School. 
Franklin— High School. 
Fredericksburg— High SchooL 
Garrison — High School. 
Gilmer— High School. 
Gorman— High School. 
Granbury— High School. 
Grand Prairie— High School. 
Grandview — High School. 



Granger— High School. _^ 

Grapevine — High School. 

Groveton— High School. 

Hallettsville— High School. 

Hamlin — High School. 

Handley — High School. 

Haskell — High School. 

Henrietta — High School. 

Jacksboro — High School. 

Jacksonville — High School. 

Jourdanton — High School. 

Kerens — High School. 

Killeen— High School. 

KingsvUle— High School. 

Kyle— High School. 

Ladonia — High School. 

Lancaster— High School. 

Lewisville — High School. 

Livingston — High School. 

Lockhart— High School. 

Madisonville — High School. 

Marble Falls— High School. 

Memphis— High School. 

Merkel— High School. 

Midlothian— High School. 

Moimt Pleasant — High School. 

New Braunfels — High School. 

Odessa — High School. 

Ozona — High School. 

Paducah — High School. 

Palacios— High School. 

Pearsall— High School. 

Pecos— High School. 

Pilot Point— High School. 

Polytechnic— Polytechnic Heights High School. 

Port Lavaca — High School. 

Rising Sun — High School. 

Rosebud — High School. 

Rosenberg— High School 

Royse— High School. 

Runge— High School. 

Sabinal— High School. 

San Augustine — High School. 

Sanger— High School. 

San Saba— High School. 

Santa Anna— High School. 

Seymour— High School, 



STATE LISTS. 



69 



Snyder— High School. 
Soiir Lake— High School. 
South Park— High School. 
Stephenville— High School. 
Teague— High School. 
Tulia— High School. 
Van Alystine— High School. 



Vernon— High School. 
West— High School. 
Whitney— High School. 
Wills Point— High School. 
Winters— High School. 
Wortham — High School. 
Wylie— High School. 



UTAH. 



The high schools of Utah have not been formally accredited by the University of Utah. President Kings 
bury states, however, that the university accepts students from the two following high schools, "feeling 
assured that the work in these schools has been well done." 



Ogden — High School. 



Salt Lake City— High School. 



Regarding the schools listed below, the president states: " The imiversity accepts students from them 
with a feeling that in most instances the work is well done, but with an vmderstanding that the students 
are in the university on probation." 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2 

History 1 

Electives 9 



American Fork— High School. 

Beaver— Jl/wrdocfc Academy. 

Bountiful— High School. 

Brigham— High School. 

Cedar City— Branch Normal School. 

Ephraim — Snow Academy. 

Eureka — High School. 

Fillmore— Millard Coimty High School. 

Heber— High School. 

Lehi — High School. 

Logan — Brigham Young Collegiate High School. 

Manti — High School. 

Mount Pleasant — 

High School. 

Wasatch Academy. 



Nephi— High School. 
Ogden — Weber Academy. 
Park City— High School. 
Payson— High School. 
Pleasant Grove— High School. 
Richfield- High School. 
Salt Lake City — 

All Hallows College. 

Granite High School. 

Latter Day Saints High School. 

Rowland Hall. 

Salt Lake Collegiate Institute. 
Sandy— Jordan High School. 
Spanish Fork— High School. 
Springville- High School. 



VERMONT. 

Schools listed as "first class" by the State Board of Education of Vermont, May 25, 1914. 

For a school of the first class at least two teachers are necessary and the time for recitation must be not 
less than 40 minutes for classes of 10 or more and not less than 30 minutes for classes. of less than 10. 



Bakersfield — Brigham Academy. 

Barre — 

High School. 
Goddard Seminary. 

Barton — High School. 

Bellows Falls- High School. 

Bennington— High School. 

Bethel— High School. 

Bradford — High School. 

Brandon — High School. 

Brattleboro— High School. 

Bristol— High School. 

Burlington- 
High School. 
St. Mary's Academy. 

Canaan — High School. 

Chelsea — High School. 

Chester — High School. 

Danville — High School. 

Derby — Derby Academy. 

Enosburg Falls— High School. 

Essex Junction— High School. 



Fairfax— Bellows Free Academy. 
Fair Haven— High School. 
Franklin— High School. 
Hardwick— High School. 
Highgate Center— High School. 
Hinesburg— High School. 
Hyde Park— High School. 
Island Pond— High School. 
Jericho Center— High School. 
Johnson — High School. 
Ludlow— High School. 
Lyndon Center — Lyndon Institute. 
Mclndoe Falls — Mclndoes Academy. 
Manchester — Burr and Burton Seminary. 
Middlebury- High School. 
Montpelier — 

High School. 

Montpelier Seminary. 
Morrisville— High School. 
Newbiny— High School. 
New Haven— High School. 
Newport— High School. 



70 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



North Bennington— High School. 

North CTSLitsbury—Craftsbury Academy. 

Northfleld— nigh School. 

North Troy— High School. 

Orleans— High School. 

Peacham— Caledonia County Grammar School. 

Pittsford— High School. 

Poultney — Troy Conference Academy. 

Proctor— High School. 

Randolph— High School. 

Richford— High School. 

Richmond — High School. 

Rochester— High School. 

Rutland— High School. 

St. Albans— High School. 

St. Johnsbury— S(. Johnsbury Academy. 

Saxtons River — Vermont Academy. 

South Royalton— High School. 



Springfield- High School. 
Stowe— High School. 
Swanton — 

High School. 

St. Ann's Academy. 
Thetford— Thetford Academy. 
Townshend — Leland and Gray Seminary. 
Vergennes — High School. 
Waterbury— High School. 
Wells River— High School. 
West Rutland— High School. 
Wliite River Junction— High School. 
Wilmington— High School. 
Windsor — High School. 
Winooski — 

High School. 

St. Michael's Institute. 
Woodstock— High School. 



VIRGINIA. 



Accredited by the University of Virginia for 1914-15. 



Units. 



Admission requirements 14 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2-J 

History 1 

Latin 4 

Electives 3 J 



Abingdon— High School. 

Accomac— High School. 

Alexandria- 
City High School. 
Episcopal High School.^ 

Amelia— High School. 

Appomattox— Agricultural High School. 

Bedford City- 
High School. 
Randolph- Macon Academy. ^ 

Big Stone Gap— High School. 

Blacksburg— High School. 

Blackstone — 
Academy. 
High School. 

Bristol— High School. 

Buchanan— High School. 

Buena Vista— High School. 

Burkeville— High School. 

Cape Charles — High School. 

Charlotte— High School. 

Charlottesville — 
High School. 
Jefferson School. 

Chase City— High School. 

Chester— Agricultural High School. 

Christ iansburg— High School. 

Churchland— High School. 

Clifton Forge— High School. 

Cluster Springs — Academy. 

Covington— High School. 

Crewe— High School. 

Danville — 

High School. 

The Danville School.^ 

Dayton — Shenandoah Collegiate Institute. 

Driver — High School. 



Dublin — Institute. 

East Stone Gap — High School. 

Elk Creek— High School. 

Emporia — High School. 

Farmville— High School. 

Fincastle— High School. 

Forest Depot — New London Academy. 

Fort Defiance — Augusta Military Academy. 

Fork Union — Academy. 

Franklin— High School. 

Franktown- Franktown-Nassawadox High School. 

Fredericksbm-g- High School. 

Front Royal — 

High School. 

Randolph- Macon Academy.^ 
Galax— High School. 
Gate City— Shoemaker High School. 
Graham— High School. 
Hampton— High School. 
Harrisonburg— High School. 
Highland Springs— High School. 
Lawrenceville— High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 
Leesburg— High School. 
Lexington— High School. 
Liacohi — High School. 
Louisa— High School. 
Luray— High School. 
Lynchburg- High School. 
Manassas — Agricultural High School. 
Martinsville— High School. 
Middletown — 

High School. 

Miller School. 
Monterey— High School. 
Morrisville— High School. 
Newport News — High School. 



1 Accredited also by the Virginia Commission on Accredited Schools. 



STATE LISTS. 



71 



Norfolk— 

Academy A 

Lafayette High School. 

Maury High School. 
Norton— High School. 
Oceana — High School. 
Onancock — High School. 
Orange — High School. 
PalmjTa— High School. 
Pearisburg — High School. 
Petersburg — High School. 
Pocahontas— High School. 
Portsmouth — 

Deep Creek High School. 

High School. 

Western Branch High School. 
Pulaski— High School. 
Radford— High School. 
Reedville— High School. 
Rich lands— High School. 
Richmond — 

Academy. 

Barton Heights High School. 

The Chamberlayne School. 

Highland Park High School. 

John Marshall High School. 

McOuire's University School.^ 
Roanoke— High School. 
Rural Retreat— High School. 
Salem — High School. 
Scottsville— High School. 



Smithfleld— High School. 
South Boston — High School. 
South Hill— High School. 
South Norfolk— High School. 
Staunton — 

High School. 

Military Academy. 
Strasburg— High School. 
Suffolk— Jefferson High School. 
Tazewell— High School. 
Toano — High School. 
Turbeville— Agricultural High School. 
Wakefield— High School. 
Warrenton — 

High School. 

Stuyvesant School. 
Waverly — High School. 
WajTiesboro — Fishburne Military Academy. 
Whaley^dlle- High School. 
White Stone— High School. 
Wicomico — High School. 
Winchester — 

High School. 

Shenandoah Valley Academy. ^ 
Woodberry Forest — School.^ 
Woodlawn — High School. 
Woodstock- 
High School. 

Massanutten Academy. ^ 
Wytheville— High School. 



" First Grade" secondary schools, in addition to those accredited by the University of Virginia, accredited 
by the State board of education, for 1914. 

In order to be rated as " First Grade" a school must require 16 units for graduation, distributed as follows: 

Units. 

English 4 

Mathematics 3 

History 2 

Science 2 

Electives •. 5 



Albemarle — MiUer Manual Training School. 

Amherst — High School. 

Armstrong — High School. 

Blackstone — Female Institute. 

Botecourt— High School. 

Biu-keville — Inglcside Seminary. 

Chase City— 

Soutliside Female Institute. 

Thyne Institute (colored). 
Chatham — Episcopal Institute. 
Cheriton — High School. 
Chincoteague— High School. 
Courtland— High School. 
Danville — Randolph -Macon Institute. 
Disputanta— High School. 
Edinburg— High School. 
Grundy— High School.2 
Hayes Store — High School. 
Houston — High School. 
Jarratt— High School. 



Kinsale— High School. 

Lawrenceville — St. Paul Normal and Industrial In- 
stitute (colored). 
Ljmchburg — Virginia Theological Seminary and 

College. 
Marion — High School. 
Manassas — 

Eastern College. 

Industrial Institute (colored). 
New Castle — High School. 
Palmyra — Normal. 
Parksley — High School. 
Richmond — Hartshorn Memorial College. 
Roanoke — Institute. 
Staxtnton— Stuart Hall. 
Stony Creek— High School. 
Sussex — High School. 
Unionville — High School. 
Williamsburg — Female Institute. 
Winchester — Fort Loudoun Seminary. 



1 Accredited also by the Virginia Commission on Accredited Schools. 

2 Accredited subject to inspection. 



72 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



WASHINGTON. 

Accredited by the State board of education and the University of Washington, May, 1914. 



Admission requirements . 
Prescribed units: 

English 

Mathematics 

Foreign language. 

Science 

History 

Electives 



Units. 
.... 15 



Aberdeen — High School. 
Anacortes — High School. 
Arlington — High School. 
Asotin — High School. 
Auburn — High School. 
Bellingham (North)— High School. 
Bellinghain (South) — High School. 
Blaine — High School. 
Bothwell— High School. 
Bremerton-Charleston— High School. 
Buckley — High School. 
Burlington — Union High School. 
Burton— Union High School. 
Camas— High School. 
Cashmere — High School. 
Castle Rock— High School. 
Centralia — High School. 
Chehalis— High School. 
Chelan — High School. 
Cheney — High School. 
Chewelah— High School. 
Clarkston — High School. 
Cle Elum— High School. 
Colfax— High School. 
Colville— High School. 
Coupeville — High School. 
Crcston— High School. 
Davenport — High School. 
Dayton— High School. 
Deer Park— High School. 
Edmonds — High School. 
Ellensburg- High School. 
Ehna — High School. 
Endicott — High School. 
Enumclaw — High School. 
Everett^High School. 
Fairfield- High School. 
Ferndale — High School. 
Friday Harbor— High School. 
Garfield— High School. 
Goldendale — High School. 
Grandview— High School. 
Granite Falls — High School. 
Harrington— High School. 
Hillyard— High School. 
Hoquiam — High School. 
Juneau (Alaska) — High School. 
Kalama — High School. 
Kelso — High School. 
Kennewick— High School. 
Kent— High School. 
Kirkland — High School. 
Kittitas— High School. 
La Conner — High School. 
Latah— High School. 
Lebam— High School. 



Lind — High School. 
Lynden — High School. 
Mabton — High School. 
Marysville— High School. 
Monroe — High School. 
Montesano — High School. 
Mount Vernon— High School. 
Newport — High School. 
North Yakima^— High School. 
Oakesdale— High School. 
Odessa— High School. 
Olympia — High School. 
Outlook— High School. 
Palouse — High School. 
Pasco — High School. 
Pomeroy — High School. 
Port Angeles — High School. 
Port Townsend — High School. 
Prosser — High School. 
Pullman — High School. 
Puyallup — High School. 
Raymond — High School. 
Reardan— High School. 
Renton— High School. 
Richland— High School. 
RidgevUle — High School. 
Ritzville— High School. 
Rosalia — High School. 
Roslyn — High School. 
Seattle— 

AdelpMa College (Academic Department). 

Ballard High School. 

Broadway High School. 

Franklin High School. 

Holy Names Academy. 

Lincoln High School. 

Queen Anne High School. 

St. Nicholas School. 

Seattle Seminary. 

West Seattle High School. 
Sedro Woolley— High School. 
Selah— High School. 
Shelton— High School. 
Snohomish — High School. 
South Bend— High School. 
Spokane — 

Brunot Hall. 

Holy Names Academy. 

Lewis and Clark High School. 

North Central High School. 
Sprague— High School. 
Stanwood— High School. 
Stevenson — High Schojl. 
Sultan — Union High School. 
Sumas — High School. 
Sumner — High School. 



STATE LISTS. 



73 



Siumyside— High School. 
Tacoma — 

Annie Wright Seminary. 

Stadium High School. 

University of Puget Sound {Preparatory De- 
partment'. 

Whitworth College Academy. 
Tekoa— High School. 
Tenino — High School. 
Toppenish— High School. 
Vancouver — High School. 
Vashon — High School. 
Waitsburg— High School. 



Walla Walla- 
High School. 
St. Paul's Academy. 
Walla Walla College A cademy. 

Wapato — High School. 

Waterville— High School. 

Wenatchee— High School. 

White Salmon— High School. 

Wilbiu-— High School. 

Winlock— High School. 

Wiuslow- High School. 

Woodland— High School. 



WEST VIRGINIA. 

"First-class" secondary schools approved by the Department of Free Schools of West Virginia and 
accredited by West Virginia University, October, 1914. Units 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Latin 2 

Mathematics .• 2 

Science 1 

History 1 

Electives 6 

Academy— High School. 

Athens — State Normal School. 

Barboursville — Morris-Harvey College, Preparatory 

School. 
Beckley— Institute, High School Department. 
Berkeley Springs— High School. 
Bethany — College, Preparatory School. 
Bluefield— High School. 
Bridgeport — High School. 
Buckhannon — 

High School. 

Weslcyan College, Preparatory School. 
Cauo — High School. 
Cameron— High School. 
Ceredo— High School. 
Charleston — 

High School. 

High School (Colored). 
Charles Town— High School. 
Chester — High School. 
Clarksburg— High School. 
Davis — High School. 
Edgington— High School. 
Elkins— 

High School. 

Davis-Elkins College, Preparatory School. 
Fairmont- 
High School. 

State Normal School. 
Flemington — High School. 
Glenville — State Normal School. 
Gralton— nigh Scliool. 
Hinton — High School. 
Huntington — 

High School. 

State Normal School. 
Keyser — 

High School. 

State Preparatory School. 
Kingwood— High School. 



Lewisburg — Seminary. 

Mannington — High School. 

Martinsburg— High School. 

Middlebourne — High School. 

Montgomery— State Preparatory School. 

Morgantown— High School. 

Moundsville— High School. 

Mount Hope— High School. 

New Cumberland— High School. 

New Martinsville— Magnolia High School. 

Oak Hill— High School. 

Parkersburg — 
High School. 
High School (Colored). 

Parsons — High School. 

Fhilippi—Broaddus Institute, Preparatory School. 

Piedmont— High School. 

Ravenswood — High School. 

Ronceverte— High School. 

St. Marys — High School. 

Salem— 

College, Preparatory School. 
High School. 

Shepherdstown— State Preparatory School. 

Shinnston— High School. 

Sistersville— High School. 

Spencer— High School. 

Sutton— High School. 

Terra Alta— High School. 

Thomas— High School. 

Welch— High School. 

WeOsburg— High School. 

West Liberty— State Normal School. 

Weston— High School. 

Wheeling- 
High School. 
Lindsly Institute. 

Williamson— High School. 

Williamstown— High School. 



74 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



WISCONSIN. 



Accredited by the University of Wisconsin, June 1, 1914. 



Units. 



Admission requirements 14 

Prescribed imits: 

Englisli 2 

Mathiematies 2 

Foreign language 2 

Electives 8 



Abbotsford — High School. 

Albany — High School. 

Algoma — High School. 

Alma — High School. 

Almond — High School. 

Altoona — St. Mary's Boarding and High School. 

Amery — High School. 

Amherst — High School. 

Antigo — High School. 

Appleton — High School. 

Arcadia — High School. 

Arena — High School. 

Argyle — High School. 

Ashland— 

High School. 
Northland Academy. 

Athens — High School. 

Augusta— High School. 

Baldwin — High School. 

Bangor— High School. 

Baraboo— High School. 

Barron— High School. 

Bayfield— High School. 

Beaver Dam — 
High School. 
Wayland Academy. 

Belleville— High School. 

Belmont— High School. 

Beloit— High School. 

Berlin — High School. 

Black Earth— High School. 

Black River Falls— High School. 

Blair — High School. 

Blanchardville — High School. 

Bloomer — High School. 

Bloomington — High School. 

Blue River— High School. 

Boscobel— High School. 

Brandon — High School. 

Brillion — High School. 

Brodhead— High School. 

Brooklyn — High School. 

Burlington — High School. 

Cadott— High School. 

Cambria— High School. 

Cambridge — High School. 

Cash ton — High School. 

Cassville — High School. 

Cedarburg— High School. 

Cedar Grove — Wisconsin Memorial Academy, 

Chetek— High School. 

Chilton— High School. 

Chippewa Falls- 
High School. 
McDonell Memorial High School. 

Clinton — High School. 

Clintonville— High School. 

Cobb— High School. 

Colby— High School. 



Columbus— High School. 

Crandon — High School. 

Cuba— High School. 

Cumberland— High School. 

Darien — High School. 

Darlington — High School. 

Deerfleld— High School. 

De Forest— High School. 

Delafleld — St. John's Military Academy. 

Delavan — High School. 

De Pere— High School. 

Dodgeville — High School. 

Durand — High School. 

Eagle River — High School. 

East Troy— High School. 

Eau Claire — High School. 

Edgar— High School. 

Edgerton — High School. 

Elkhorn— High School. 

Ellsworth— High School. 

Elroy— High School. 

Endeavor — Endeavor Academy. 

Evansville — 

Evansville Seminary. 

High School. 
Fairchild — High School. 
Fennimore — High School. 
Fifleld— High School. 
Florence— High School. 
Fond du Lac — 

Grafton Hall. 

High School. 

St. Mary's Springs Academy. 
Fort Atkinson — High School. 
Fountain City — High School. 
Fox Lake — High School. 
Frederic — High School. 
GalesviOe— High School. 
Genoa Junction — High School. 
Gillett— High School. 
Glenbeulah— High School. 
Glenwood City— High School. 
Goodman— High School. 
Grand Rapids — High School. 
Gran tsburg— High School. 
Green Bay (East)— High School. 
Green Bay (West)— 

High School. 

St. Joseph's Academy. 
Green Lake — High School. 
Greenwood— High School. 
Hammond — High School. 
Hancock — High School. 
Hartford — High School. 
Hayward— High School. 
Hazel Green— High School. 
Highland — High School. 
Hillsboro — High School. 
Hillside — Hillside Home School. 



STATE LISTS. 



75 



Hlxton— High School. 
Horicon — High School. 
Hudson — 

High School. 

Galahad, a School for Boys. 
Humbird— High School. 
Hurley— High School. 
Independence — High School, 
lola — High School. 
Iron River — High School. 
Janesville — High School. 
Jefferson — High School. 
Juneau— High School. 
Kaukauna — High School. 
Kendall— High School. 
Kenosha — High School. 
Kewaunee — High School. 
Kewaskum — High School. 
Kiel— High School. 
Kilbourn— High School. 
La Crosse— High School. 
Ladysmith— High School. 
La Farge — High School. 
Lake Geneva — High School. 
Lake Mills— High School. 
Lancaster — High School. 
Linden — High School. 
Little Chute— High School. 
Livingston — High School. 
Lodi— High School. 
Lone Rock — High School. 
Loyal — High School. 
Madison — 

High School. 

Sacred Heart Academy. 

The Wisconsin High School. 
Manawa — High School. 
Manitowoc — High School. 
Marinette — High School. 
Marion — High School. 
Markesan — High School. 
Marshall— High School. 
Marshfield — High School. 
Mattoon — High School. 
Mauston — High School. 
Majrville — High School. 
Mazomanie — High School. 
Medford— High School. 
Mellen— High School. 
Menasha — High School. 
Menomonee Falls— High SchooL 
Menomonie— High School. 
Merrill — High School. 
Merrillan — High School. 
Middleton— High School. 
Milton — 

High School. 

Milton College Academy. 
Milton Junction — High School. 
Milwaukee — 

East Division High School. 

German- English Academy. 

Milwaukee-Downer Seminary. 

North Division High School. 

OiiT Lady of Mercy High School. 

South Division High School. 

St. John's Cathedral School. 

West Division High School. 



Mineral Point— High School. 
Minocqua— High School. 
Mondovi— High School. 
Monroe — High School. 
Montello — High School. 
Montfort— High School. 
Mount Horeb — High School. 
Mukwonago — High School. 
Muscoda— High School. 
Necedah— High School. 
Neenah— High School. 
Neillsville— High School. 
New Holstein— High School. 
New Lisbon — High School. 
New London— High School. 
New Richmond— High School. 
North Fond du Lac— High School. 
Oakfleld— High School. 
Oconomawoc— High School. 
Oconto— High School. 
Oconto Falls— High School. 
Omro — High School. 
Onalaska— High School. 
Oregon — High School. 
Osceola — High School. 
Oshkosh — High School. 
Palmyra— High School. 
PardeeviUe — High School. 
Park Falls— High School. 
Pepin— High School. 
Peshtigo— High School. 
Pewaukee — High School. 
Phillips— High School. 
Plainfield— High School. 
Platteville— High School. 
Plymouth— High School. 
Portage— High School. 
Port Washington— High School. 
Poynette — High School. 
Prairie du Chien — 

High School. 

St. Mary's Academy. 
Prairie du Sac— High School. 
Prentice— High School. 
Prescott — High School. 
Princeton — High School. 
Racine— 

College Grammar School. 

High School. 

St. Catherine's Academy. 
Randolph — High School. 
Redgranite — High School. 
Reedsburg — High School. 
Reeseville— High School. 
Rhinelander — High School. 
Rib Lake— High School. 
Rice Lake— High School. 
Richland Center — High School. 
Rio— High School. 
Ripon — High School. 
River Falls— High School. 
Roberts— High School. 
Rosendale — High School. 
St. Croix Falls— High School. 

St. Francis — Pio Novo College (High School Course). 
Sauk City— High School. 
Seneca — High School. 
Seymour — High School. 



76 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



Sharon— High School. 

Shawano— High School. 

Sheboygan— High School. 

Sheboygan Falls— High School. 

Shell Lake— High School. 

Shiocton— High School. 

ShuUsburg— High School. 

Sinsinawa— S?. Clara Academy. 

Soldiers Grove — High School. 

South Milwaukee— High School. 

Sparta— High School. 

Spooner— High School. 

Spring Green — High School. 

Spring Valley — High School. 

Stanley— High School. 

Stevens Point— High School. 

Stoughton — High School. 

Stratford— High School. 

Sturgeon Bay— High School. 

Sun Prairie— High School. 

Superior- 
High School. 
Nelson Dewey High School. 

Thorp— High School. 

Tigerton— High School. 

Tomah— High School. 

Tomahawk— High School. 

Trempealeau — High School. 

Two Rivers— High School. 

Union tJrove — High School. 

Unity— High School. 

Verona — High School. 

Viola — High School. 



Viroqua— High School. 
Wabeno— High School. 
Waldo— High School. 
Walworth— High School. 
Washburn — High School. 
Waterford— High School. 
Waterloo— High School. 
Watertown— High School. 
Waukesha — High School. 
Waunakee— High School. 
Waupaca — High School. 
Waupun— High School. 
Wausau— High School. 
Wausaukee — High School. 
Wautoma— High School. 
Wauwatosa — High School. 
West Allis— High School. 
West Bend— High School. 
Westboro — High School. 
Westby — High School. 
West De Pere— High School. 
Westfield— High School. 
West Salem— High School. 
Weyauwega — High School. 
Whitehall— High School. 
Whitewater — High School. 
Wild Rose— High School. 
Wilmot— High School. 
Wilton— High School. 
Winneconne — High School. 
Wittenberg— High School. 
Wonewoc— High School. 



WYOMING. 



Accredited by the University of Wyoming, May, 1914. 



Admission requirements . 
Prescribed units: 

English 

Mathematics 

Foreign language . 
Electives 



Units. 
. . . . 14 



Basin— High School. 
Buffalo— High School. 
Casper— High School. 
Cheyeime — High School. 
Cody— High School. 
Douglas— High School. 
Evanston — High School. 
Green River — High School. 



Kemmerer — High School. 
Lander — High School. 
Laramie— High School. 
Newcastle— High School. 
Rawlins— High School. 
Rock Springs— High School. 
Sheridan— High School. 
Wheatland— High School. 



PART II.— LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



The Commission on Accredited Schools of the Southern States, of the 
Association of Colleges and Preparatory Schools of the Southern 
States. 



The minimum standard for accrediting shall be: 

(o) No school shall be accredited which does not require for graduation the completion of a four-year high- 
school course of study embracing 14 units as defined by this association. A unit represents a year's study 
n any subject in a secondary scliool, constituting approximately a quarter of a full year's work. More 
than 20 periods per week should be discouraged. 



LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



77 



(6) The minimum scholastic attainment of three-fom-ths of all secondary school teachers of academic 
subjects iu any accredited school on the southern list shall be equivalent to graduation from a college belong- 
ing to the Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern States, or a college approved 
by the commission. It is strongly advised that this attainment include, or be supplemented by, special 
study of the content and pedagogy of the subject taught. 

(c) The number of daily periods of class instruction given by any teacher should not exceed five periods 
per day; and the commission will scrutinize with extreme care any school in which instructors teach as 
many as six daily periods. 

(d) The laboratory and library facilities shall be adequate for the needs of instruction in the courses 
taught. 

(f) The location and construction of the buildings, the lighting, heating, and ventilation of the rooms, 
the nature of the lavatories, corridors, water supply, school fimiiture, apparatus, and methods of cleaning 
shall bo such as to insure hygienic conditions for both pupils and teachers. 

(/) The efficiency of instruction, the acquired habits of thought and speech, the general intellectual 
and moral tone of a school are paramount factors and, therefore, only schools which rank well in these 
particulars, as evidenced by rigid, thoroughgoing, sympathetic inspection, shall be considered eligible 
for the list. 

(g) The commission will decline to consider any school whose teaching force consists of fewer than three 
teachers of academic subjects giving their full time to high-school instruction. When local conditions 
warrant the introduction of the so-called vocational subjects, such as agriculture, manual training, house- 
hold arts, and commercial subjects, the commission will hold that a sufficient number of teachers must 
be added to provide adequately for such instruction. 

)|: :f: :{: * =i^ ^ ^ 

(!) All schools whose records show an excessive number of pupils per teacher, as based on the average 
number belonging, even though they may technically meet all other requirements, will be rejected. The 
association recognizes 30 as maximum. 

Schools accredited for the year 1913-14. 



ALABAMA. 



Andalusia — High School. 
Athens— Oreene University School. 
Birmingham — 

Central High School. 

Howard Academy. 
Centerville— Bibb County High School. 
Daphne— State Normal School. 
Decatur— High School. 
Dothan— High School. 
Ensley — High School. 
Eufaula— High School. 
Gadsden— High School. 



Huntsville— High School. 
Mobile — 

High School. 

University Military School. 
Montgomery — Sidney Lanier High School. 
New Decatur — High School. 
Rogersville — Lauderdale County High School. 
Selma— High School. 
Talladega— High School. 
Tuscaloosa— High School. 
LTnion Springs — High School. 



ARKANSAS. 



Argenta— High School. 

Blytheville— High School. 

Camden— High School. 

Eureka Springs — Crescent College Academy. 

Hot Springs— High School. 



Paragould — High School. 
Pine Bluff— High School. 
Texarkana — High School. 
Warren — High School. 



FLORIDA. 



Arcadia- De Soto Coimty High School. 

Bradentown— Manatee Coimty High School. 

Clearwater— High School. 

Daytona— High School. 

Fort Myers— Gwynne High School. 

Gainesville — High School. 

Jacksonville — 

Duval County High School. 

Florida Military Academy. 
Key West— Harris High School. 
Kissimmee — Osceola County High School. 
Lakeland — High School. 
Miami— High School, 



Ocala— High School. 

Pensacola— High School. 

Plant City— High School. 

Quincy — Gadsden County High School. 

St. Augustine — High School. 

St. Petersburg— High School. 

Sanford— High School. 

Seabreeze— Seabreeze-Daytona Beach High School. 

Tallahassee — Leon High School. 

Tampa— Hillsborough County High -School. 

Wauchula— High School. 

West Palm Beach— High School. 



78 



ACCKEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



GEORGIA. 



Athens— High School. 

Atlanta — 

Boys' High School. 
Girls' High School. 
Marist College. 
Peacock- Fleet School. 

Augusta- 
Richmond Academy. 
Tubman High School. 

Barnesville — Gordon Institute. 

Brunswick— G/t/mn Academy. 

Carters ville— High School. 

Cedartown— High School. 

Columbus— High School. 

College Fark— Georgia Military Academy. 

Dublin— High School. 

Elberton— High School. 

Fitzgerald- High School. 

Fort Valley— High School. 



Gainesville — Riverside Military Academy. 

Greensboro — High School. 

Griffin- High School. 

Lagrange— High School. 

Locust Grove — Institute. 

Madison— High School. 

Marietta — High School. 

MUledgcville — Georgia Military College. 

Newnan — High School. 

Quitman — High School. 

Rome — 

Darlington Academy. 

High School. 
Savannah — 

Benedictine College. 

Chatham Academy. 
Thomaston — R. E. Lee Institute. 
ThomasvUle — High School. 
Valdosta— High School. 



KENTUCKY. 



Ashland— High School. 
Bellevue— High School. 
Covington— High School. 
Cynthiana— High School. 
Dayton— High School. 
Frankfort— High School. 
Franklin— High School. 
Georgetown— High School. 
Henderson— High School. 
Lexington— High School. 
Louisville — 

Boys' High School. 

Girls' High School. 



Homer- High School. 

Houma— Terrebonne High School. 

Monroe— Ouachita Parish High School. 



Clarksdale— High School. 
Greenville— High School. 
Greenwood— High School. 
Gulfport— High School. 
Jackson— High School. 



Ludlow— High School. 
Lyndon — Kentucky Military Institute. 
MaysviUe — High School. 
Mount Sterling— High School. 
Newport — High School. 
Owensboro — High School. 
Paducah— High School. 
Richmond— Model High School. 
Stanford— High School. 
Sturgis — High School. 



LOUISIANA. 



New Orleans— /sifZore Newman Manual Training 

School. 
Shreveport— High School. 



MISSISSIPPI. 



Laurel— High School. 

McComb— High School. 

Natchez— High School. 

Port Gibson — Chamberlain- Hunt Academy. 



NORTH CAROLINA. 



A.sheville— 

Asheville School. 

Bingham School. 

City High School. 

St. Genevieve's College and Academy. 
Charlotte — 

High School. 

Horner Military School. 
Durham- 
High School. 

Trinity Park School. 



Elizabeth City—High School. 
Flat nock— Fleet School. 
Goldsboro— High School. 
Greensboro — High School. 
Lincolnton — Fassifern School. 
Raleigh— High School. 
Warrenton— High School. 
Wilmington— High School. 
Winston-Salem— City High School. 



LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



79 



SOUTH CAROLINA. 



Anderson — High School. 
Bamberg — High School. 
Bemiettsville — High School. 
Charleston — 

High School. 

Porter Military Academy. 
Darlington — High School. 
Florence — High School. 



Greenwood — High School. 
Latta— High School. 
Marion— High School. 
North Augusta — High School. 
St. Matthews— High School. 
Spartanburg — Wofford Fitting School. 
Summerville — High School. 
Sumter — High School. 



TENNESSEE. 



Benton— Polk County High School. 
Chattanooga— 

Girls' Preparatory School. 

High School. 

J/c Callie School. 
Columbia,— Military Academy. 
Concord — Farragut High School. 
Covington — Byars-Hall High School. 
Fayetteville — Morgan School. 
Martin — McFerrin Training School. 



Abilene — High School. 
AmarOlo — High School. 
Austin — 

High School. 

Mliit is School 
Beaumont — High School. 
Belton — High School. 
Bonham — High School. 
Cameron— High School. 
Corsicana — High School. 
Cleburne— High School. 
Dallas — 

High School. 

Oak Cliff High School. 

Terrill School. 
El Paso— High School. 
Fort Worth— High School. 
Gainesville — High School. 
Galveston— Ball High School. 
Greenville — High School. 
Henderson — High School. 



Memphis- 
City High School. 
Higbee School. 
University School. 

Nashville— 

Hume-Fogg High School. 
Montgomery-Bell Academy. 

Pulaski — Massey School. 

Sewanee — Sewanee Military Academy. 

T-a\\z,\xoma,— Fitzgerald and Clarke School. 



TEXAS. 



HUlsboro — High School. 
Houston — High School. 
Longview — High School. 
Marlin — High School. 
Marshall— High School. 
McGregor — High School. 
Nacogdoches — High School. 
Port Arthur — High School. 
Quanah — High School. 
San Angelo — High School. 
San Antonio — A cademy. 
San Marcos — Baptist Academy. 
Sherman — High School. 
Stamford — High School. 
Sweetwater — High School. 
Temple — High School. 
Terrell— High School. 
Victoria— High School. 
Waco — High School. 
Waxahachie— High School. 
Wichita Falls— High School. 



VIRGINIA. 



Alexandria — Episcopal High School. 
Bedford — Randolph- Macon Academy. 
Bristol— High School. 
Charlottesville— High School. 
Danville — The Danville School. 
Front Hoyal— Randolph- Macon Academy. 
Harrisonburg — High School. 
Lexington — High School. 
LsTichburg- High School. 
Manassas — Agricultural High School. 
Norfolk — Maury High School. 
Petersburg — High School. 
Portsmouth— High School. 



Richmond — 

John Marshall High School. 

McGuire's University School. 
Roanoke — City High School. 
South Boston— High School. 
Staunton — 

High School. 

Stuart Hall. 
Suffolk — Jefferson High School. 
Winchester — Shenandoah Valley Academy. 
Woodberry Forest — School. 
Woodstock — Massanutten Academy. 
WytheviUe— High School. 



80 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



WEST VIRGINIA. 



Beckley— Institute. 
Benwood— Union High School. 
Bluefield— Beaver High School. 
Cairo— High School. 
Cameron — High School. 
Ceredo— Ceredo-Kenova High School 
Charleston— High School. 
Chester— High School. 
Clarksbvirg— High School 
Davis— High School. 
Elkins— High School. 
Fairmount — High School. 
Grafton— High School. 
Hillsboro— High School. 
Hinton— High School. 
Huntington — High School. 
Keyser— 

High School. 

State Preparatory School. 
Kingwood — High School. 
Mannington— High School. 
Martinsburg- High School. 



Montgomery — State Preparatory School. 

Morgantown — High School. 

Mount Hope — High School. 

New Cumberland— High School. 

New Martinsville- Magnolia High School. 

Oak Hill— High School. 

Parkersburg— High School. 

Piedmont— High School. 

Philippi— jBroadifMS Institute. 

St. Marys— High School. 

Shinnston— Clay District High School. 

Spencer— High School. 

Terra Alta— High School. 

Thomas— High School. 

Welch— High School. 

Wellsburg- High School. 

Weston— High School. 

Wheeling — 

(Edgewood) Tridelphia District High School. 

High School. ■ 
Williamson— High School. 
Williamstown— High School. 



New England College Entrance Certificate Board. 

Members of the board: Amherst College, Bates College, Boston University, Bowdoin College, Brown 
University, Colby College, Massachusetts Agricultural College, Middlebury College, Moimt Holyoke Col- 
lege, Smith College, Tufts College, University of Vermont, Wellesley College, Wesleyan University, Wil- 
liams College. 

A school to be approved by the board must— 

(1) Give satisfactory evidence as to curriculum, stafi of teachers, and equipment; 

(2) Be able to prepare for college according to some one of the recognized plans for entering a college rep- 
resented on the board; 

******* 

(4) Have sent on examination within a period of three years preceding the time ol application at least 
two students to one or more of the colleges represented on the board. 

A school when first approved is placed on a trial list. If the record made by its candidates in the colleges 
represented on the board is satisfactory, it is then placed on the approved list. 

Schools approved by the board. May 12, 1914. 
CONNECTICUT. 



Ansonia— High School. 

Bridgeport — Courlland School. 

Bristol— High School, i 

Central Village— Plainfield High School. » 

Clinton — Morgan School. 

Danbury— High School. 

Danielson— Killingly High School. 

Derby— High School. 

East Hartford— High School, i 

Greenwich— 

Academy. 

High School. 

Rosemary Hall School.^ 
Hartford— Public High School. 
Lakeville— Taconic School for Girls. 
Meriden — High School. 
Middlebury — Westover School. 
Middletown— 

High School. 

The Misses Patten's School. 



New Britain— Public High School. 
New Haven— High School. 
New London — 

Bulkeley School. 

Williams Memorial Institute. 
New Milford— High School, i 
Newtown — High School. 
Norwalk — 

High School. 

Hillside School. 
Norwalk— High School. 
Norwalk — Hillside School. 
Norwich — Free Academy. 
Portland— High School. 
Putnam— High School. 
Redding— Saw/ord School, i 
Ridgefield — School. ' 
Seymour— High School, i 
Shelton— High School. 
Southington— Lewis High School. 



1 On the trial list for 1914. 



LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



81 



South Manchester— High School. 
Stamford — 

High School. 

The Catherine A ilcen School. 

The Stamford Preparatory School. 
Stonington— High School. 
Stratford— High School, i 
Suffleld — Connecticut Literary Institution. 
Thompsonville — Enfield Public High School. 
Vernon — Rockville High School. 
Wallingford — 

Central District High School. 

The Choate School. > 



Washington— 

The Gunnery School. 
Wykeham Rise. 
Waterbiu^y — 

Crosby High School. 

St. Margaret's School. 
Watertown— r/ie Taft School. 
West Hartford— High School. 
West Haven — High School. > 
Willimantic — Windham High School. 
Windsor — High School. 
Winsted — Gilbert School. 



MAINE. 



Auburn- Edward Little High School. 

Augusta — Cony High School. 

Bangor — High School. 

Bar Harbor— High School. 

Bath — Morse High School. 

Belfast— High School. 

Bethel — Gould's Academy. 

Biddeford— High School. 

Bluehill — Bluchill George Stevens Academy. 

Bowdoinham— High School.' 

Brewer— High School. 

Bridgton — High School. 

Bnmswick — High School. 

Bucksport — East Maine Conference Seminary. 

Calais — Academy. 

Camden — High School. 

Charleston — Higgins Classical Institute. 

Cumberland Centei— Greeley Institute.^ 

Dexter— High School. 

East Livermore — Livermore Falls High School. 

East Machias: Washington Academy. 

Eastport: BojTiton High School. 

Ellsworth: High School. 

Farmington — 

High School. 

The Abbott School. 
Fort Fairfield— High School. 
Foxcroft — Acade.ny. 
Freedom — A cademy. 
Freeport — High School.i 
Fryeburg — A cademy . 
Gorham — High School. 
Guilford— High School. 
Hallowell— High School. 
Hampden — Academy. 
Hebron — A cademy. 
Hinckley— Good Will High School.' 
Houlton— 

High School. 

Richer Classical Institute. 



Kent's Hill — Maine Wesley an Seminary. 

Lewiston — High School. 

Lisbon Falls — High School. 

Machias — High School,' 

Madison — High School. 

Newcastle — Lincoln Academy. 

North Bridgton— Bridgton Academy. 

Norway — High School. 

Old Town— High School. 

Orono — IHgh School. 

Oxford— High School.' 

Phillips— High School.' 

Pittsfield — Maine Central Institute. 

Portland — 

Deering High School. 

High School. 

Waynflete School. 

Westbrook Seminary. 
Presque Isle — High School. 
Richmond — IHgh School. 
Rockland— High School. 
Rockport — High School.' 
Rumford — Stephens High School. 
Saco — Thornton Academy. 

Skowhegan — Skowhegan High School and Bloom- 
field Academy. 
South Berwick — Berwick Academy. i 
South Paris— Paris High School. 
South Portland— High School. 
Topsham — High School.' 
Vassalboro — Oak Grove Seminary. 
Waterville — 

Coburn Classical Institute. 

High School. 
Wells— High School. 
Westbrook— IHgh School. 
Wilton — A cademy. 
Winthrop — High School.' 
York— High School. 



MASSACHUSETTS. 



Abington — High School. 
Adams— High School. 
Amherst — High School. 
Andover — 

Abbot Academy. 

Phillips Academy. 

Punchard High School. 
Arlington— High School. 



Ashburnham — CusMng Academy. 
Ashland — High School. 
Athol— High School. 
Attleboro— High School. 
Aubumdale — Lasell Seminary. 
Ayer — High School. 
Barre — Henry Woods High School. 
Belmont — High School. 



75087°— 1 



' On the trial list for 1914, 



82 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Boston— 

Berkeley Preparatory School. 

Brighton High School. 

Miss Cummings's School. 

Dorchester High School. 

East Boston High School. 

English High School. 

Girls' High School. 

Girls' Latin School. 

2Iiss Guild's and Miss Evans's School. 

Huntington School. 

Mechanics Arts High School. 

Public Latin School. 

Roxbury High School. 

South Boston High School. 

The von Mach School for Girls.^ 

West Roxbury High School. 

The Winsor School.^ 
Bradiord— Academy . 
Bridgewater— High School. 
Brimfield— H^teftcocfc Free Academy.^ 
Brockton— High School. 
Brookline — High School. 
Cambridge— High and Latin School. 
Chelsea— High School. 
Chicopee— High School. 
Clinton— High School. 
Concord— High School. 
Dalton— High School. 
Danvers— Holton High School. 
Dedham— High School. 

Deerfleld— Academy and Diclvinson High School. 
Easthampton — 

High School. 
Williston Seminary. 
East NoTth&eU—Northficld Seminary. 
East Weymouth— Weymouth High School. 
Everett^High School. 
Fairhaven— High School. 
Fall River— B. M. C. Durfee High School. 
Falmouth— Lawrence High School. 
Fitchburg— High School. 
Foxboro— High School. 
Framingham— High School. 
Franklin— 

Bean Academy. 

Horace Mann High School. 
Gardner— High School. 
Gloucester— High School. 
Grafton— High School. 
Greenfield— High School. 
Groveland— High School. 
Hadley— Hopkins Academy. 
B.atfield— Smith Academy. 
Haverhill— High School. 
Hingham— High School. 
Holliston— High School. 
Holyoke— High School. 
Hudson— High School. 
Hyde Park— High School. 
Kingston— High School. 
Lawrence— High School. 
Lee— High School. 
Leicester — A cademy. 



Leominster — High School. 
Lexington — High School. 
Lowell — 

High School. 
Rogers Hall School. 
'Lyrm— 

Classical High School. 
English High School. 
Maiden— High School. 
Manchester — Story High School. 
Mansfield— High School. 
Marblehead — High School. 
Marion — Tahor Academy. 
Marlborough — High School. 
Maynard — High School. 
Medford— High School. 
Melrose — High School. 
Methuen— High School. 
Middleboro — High School. 
Milford — High School. 
Milton— High School. 
Monson — Academy. 
Mount Hermon — Boys' School. 
Natiek — 

High School. 

Walnut Hill School for Girls. 
Needham — High School. 
New Bedford — High School. 
Newburyport — High and Putnam Schools. 
Newton— ilibwKi Ida School for Girls. 
Newton ville — 

Newton High School. 
Technical High School.' 
North Adams— Drury High School. 
Northampton — 
High School. 

Miss Capen's School for Girls. 
St. Michael's High School. 
The Mary A. Burnham School for Girls. 
North Andover- Johnson High School. 
North Attleboro— High School, i 
North Brookfleld— High School. 
Norton- 
High School. 
Wheaton Seminary. 
Norwood— High School. 
Orange— High School. 
Palmer— High School. 
Peabody— High School. 
Pepperell- High School.i 
Pittsfleld— 

High School. 
Miss Hall's School. 
Plymouth— High School. 
Provincetown — High School. 
Quincy — 

High School. 
Woodward Institute. 
Revere— High School. 
Rockland— High School. 
Salem- Classical and High School. 
Sandwich— High School. 
Saugus— High School. 
Scituate— High School. 



1 On the trial list for 1914. 



LISTS OF ACCEEDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



83 



Sharon— High School. 

Shelburne — Arms Academy. 

Somerville — High School. 

South Baintree — Thayer Academy. 

Southbridge— High School. 

South Byfleld — Dummer Academy.^ 

Springfleld — 

American International College. 

Central High School. 

The Elms. 

The MacDuffee School for Girls. 

Technical High School. 
Stoneham— High School. 
Stoughton — Kimball High School. 
Sudburj-— High School.' 
Swampscott— High School. 
Taunton — High School. 
Tiu-ners Falls — High School. 
Upton — High School. 
Uxbridge — High School. 
Wakefield— High School. 
Waltham — High School. 
Ware— High School. 
Wareham — High School. 
Warren — High School. 



Webster— High School. 
Welleslej- — 

Dana High School. 

High School. 
West Bridgewater — 

Howard High School. 

Howard Seminary. 
Westfleld— High School. 
West Springfield— High School.' 
Whitinsville — Northbridge High School. 
Whitman — Public High School. 
Wilbraham — Academy. 
WilliamstowTi — High School. 
Winchendon— Murdock High School. 
Winchester — High School. 
Winthrop — High School. 
Wobiu-n — High School. 
Wollaston — Quincy Mansion School. 
Worcester — 

Academy. 

Classical High School. 

English High School. 

Kimball School. 

Soutn High School. 
Wrentham — High School. 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



Andover — Proctor A cademy. 
Berlin— High School. 
Claremont— Stevens High School. 
Concord — 

High School. 

St. Mary's School for Girls. 

St. Paul's School. 
Derry — Pinkerton Academy. 
Exeter— 

Phillips Exeter Academy. 

Robinson Seminary. 
Franklin — High School. 
Hanover — High School. 
Hillsboro — High School.' 
Keene— High School. 
Kingston — Sanborn Seminary. 
Laconia — High School. 
Lancaster — High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 



Lisbon — High School. 

Littleton — High School. 
Manchester — High School. 
Meriden — Kimball Union Academy. 
Milford — High School. 
Milton— Nute High School. 
Nashua— High School. 
New Hampton — Literary Institution.^ 
New London— Colhy Academy. 
Newport— Richards High School. 
Pittsfield— High School. 
Plymouth— High School. 
Portsmouth — High School. 
Rochester— High School. 
Somersworth — High School. 
Stratford— High School. 
Til ton — Seminary. 
Warner- Simons Fre« High School. 
Wolfeboro — Brewster Free Academy. 



RHODE ISLAND. 



Barrington Center — High School. 
Bristol — Colt Memorial High School. 
Central Falls— High School. 
East Greenwich — Academy.'^ 
East Providence — High School. 
Newport — Rogers High School. 
Pawtucket- High School. 
Providence — 

Classical High School. 

Cranston High School. 

English High School. 



Providence — Continued. 
Hope Street High School. 
Miss Wheeler's School. 
Morris Heights School, i 
Moses Broivn School. 
Technical High School. 

Wakefield — South Kingstown High School. 

Warwick— High School. 

Westerly — High School. 

Wickford— North Kingstown High School. 

Woonsocket — High School. 



1 On the trial list for 1914. 



84 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



VERMONT. 



Barre — 

Goddard Seminary. 

Spaulding High School. 
Barton — Academy. 
Bellows Falls— High School. 
Bennington— High School. 
Bethel— Whitcomb High School. 
Bradford — Academy. 
Brandon— High School.' 
Brattleboro— High School. 
Burlington— High School. 
Chester— High School.' 
Essex — Essex Junction High School. 
Fairfax — Bellows Free Academy. 
Fair Haven— High School. 
Hardwick — Academy. 
Jerico— High School.' 
Johnson— High School. 
Ludlow— Black River Academy. 
Lyndon Center— Lyndow Institute. 
Manchester— £Mrr and Burton Seminary. 
Montpelier — 

High School. 

SemiTMry. 



Morrisville— People's Academy. 

Newport— High School. 

North Craftsbury — Craftsbury Academy. 

Orleans— High School.' 

Poultney — Troy Conference Academy. 

Proctor— High School. 

Randolph— High School. 

Richford- High School. 

Rutland— High School. 

St. Albans— High School. 

St. Johnsbury — Academy. 

Saxtons River — Vermont Academy. 

South Royalton— High School. 

Springfield— High School. 

Stowe— High School. 

Towashend—Leland and Gray Seminary. 

Vergennes — High School. 

Waterbury— High School. 

White River Junction — Hartford High School. 

Woodstock— High School. 



North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. 

The following constitiite the standards for accrediting secondary schools for the present year (1914): 

1. No school shall be accredited which does not require 15 units for graduation. More than 20 periods 
per week should be discouraged. 

2. The minimum scholastic attainment of teachers of academic subjects shall be equivalent to graduation 
from a college belonging to the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. After 1915 
the preparation of the teacher shall include at least 11 semester hours in education. This shall include 
special study of the subject matter and pedagogy of the subject to be taught. Such requirements shall not 
be construed as retroactive. 

3. The number of daily periods of classroom instruction given by any teacher should not exceed 5, 
each to extend over at least 40 minutes in the clear. The board of inspectors will reject all schools having 
more than 6 recitation periods per day for any teacher. 

4. The laboratory and library facilities shall be adequate to the needs of instruction in the subjects taught. 

5. The location and construction of the buildings, the lighting, heating, and ventilation of the rooms, 
the nature of the lavatories, corridors, closets, water supply, school furniture, apparatus, and methods of 
cleaning shall be such as to insure hygienic conditions for both pupils and teachers. 

6. The efficiency of instruction, the acquired habits of thought and study, the general intellectual and 
moral tone of a school are paramount factors, and therefore only schools which rank well in these particu- 
lars, as evidenced by rigid, thoroughgoing, sympathetic inspection, shall be considered eligible for 
the list. 

7. The association will decline to consider any school whose teaching force consists of fewer than four 
teachers of academic subjects, exclusive of the superintendent. The association recommends the intro- 
duction of the so-called vocational subjects, such as agriculture, manual training, household arts, and 
commercial subjects, into schools where local conditions render such introduction feasible, but the inspec- 
tors will hold that a sufficient number of qualified teachers must be added to provide adequately for such 
instruction. 



9. No school whose records show an excessive number of pupils per teacher, based on average attendance, 
shall be accredited. The association recommends 25 as a maximum. 

Schools accredited March 20, 1914. 

COLORADO. 



Aspen— High School. 

Boulder— Colorado State Preparatory School. 

Canon City- 
High School. 
South Canon City High School. 



Colorado City — High School. 
Colorado Springs — High School. 
Cripple Creek — High School. 
Delta— High School. 



1 On the trial list for 1914, 



LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



85 



Denver — 

East Side High School. 

Manual Training High School. 

North Side High School. 

South Side High School. 

West Side High School. 
Durango — High School. 
Eaton— High School. 
Fort Collins— High School. 
Fort Morgan— High School. 
Fruita— High School. 
Glenwood— Garfield County High School. 
Golden— High School. 
Grand Junction— High School. 
Greeley— High School. 



Lamar — High School. 

I. as Animas — Bent County High School. 

La Junta— High School. 

Leadville— High School. 

Longmont — High School. 

Loveland — High School. 

Monte Vista— High School. 

Pueblo- 
High School (District 1). 
High School (District 20). 

Rocky Ford — High School. 

Salida— High School. 

Telluride— High School. 

Trinidad — High School. 

Victor — High School. 



ILLINOIS. 



Aledo — Brury Academy. 
Alton — High School. 
Aurora — 

East High School. 

Jennings Seminary. 

West High School. 
Batavia — High School. 
Beardstown — High School. 
Belleville— High School. 
Belvidere — High School. 
Bloomington — High School. 
Blue Island— High School. 
Bridgeport— High School (Township). 
Cairo— High School. 
Canton — High School. 
CarlinvLlle — High School. 
Carthage — College Academy. 
Central ia— High School (Township). 
Champaign— High School. 
Charleston — High School. 
Chicago- 
Austin High School. 

Bowen High School. 

Calumet High School. 

Carl Schurz High School 

Crane Technical High School. 

Curtis High School. 

Englewood High School. 

F. W. Parker School. 

Harrison Technical High School. 

Harvard School. 

Hyde Park High School. 

Kenwood Institute. 

Lake High School. 

Lake View High School. 

Lane Technical High School. 

Latin School. 

Loyola Academy. 

Marshall High School. 

McKinley High School. 

MediU High School. 

Phillips High School. 

Senn High School. 

Tuley High School. 
University High School. 

Waller High School. 
Chicago Heights— Bloom Township High School. 
Cicero— J. Sterling Morton Township High School. 
Clinton— High School. 



Collinsville— High School (Township). 

Danville— High School. 

Decatur — High School. 

De Kalb — High School (Town.ship). 

Des Plaines — Maine Township High School. 

Dixon — 

High School. 

North High School. 
Downers Grove — High School. 
Dundee — High School. 
Duquoin— High School (Township). 
East St. Louis— High School. 
Edwardsville— High School. 
Elgin — 

Academy. 

High School. 
Elmhurst — Evangelical Proseminar. 
Evanston — 

Academy. 

High School (Township). 
Freeport— High School. 
Galesburg — High School. 
Galva — High School. 
Geneseo — High School (Township). 
Geneva — High School. 

Gibson City — Drummer Township High School. 
Godlrey — Monticello Seminary. 
Granite City — High School. 
Harrisburg — High School (Township). 
Harvard — High School. 
Harvey — Thornton Township High School. 
Highland Park— 

Deerfleld Township High School. 

Northwestern Military Academy. 
Hinsdale— High School. 
Hoopeston — High School. 
Jacksonville — 

High School. 

Illinois Woman's College Academy. 

Whipple Academy. 
Joliet^-High School (Township). 
Kankakee — High School. 

KenUworth — New Trier Township High School. 
Kewanee — High School. 
La Grange— Lyons Township High School. 
Lake Forest — 

Academy. 

Ferry Hall. 
La Salle— La Salle-Peru Township High School. 



86 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Lawrenceville — High School (Township). 

Lexington — High School. 

Lincoln — High School. 

Lockport — H gh School (Township). 

Lovington— High School (Township). 

Macomb — 

Academic Department of Normal School. 

High School. 
Marengo — High School. 
Marshall— High School (Township). 
Mattoon— High School. 
Maywood — Proviso Township High School. 
Moliue— High School. 
Monmouth — High School. 
Morgan Park — 

Academy. 

High School (Township). 
Morris — High School. 
Morrison — High School. 
Mount Carroll — Frances Shiner School. 
Mount Vernon— High School (Township). 
Murphysboro — High School (Township). 
Naperville — 

High School. 

Northwestern College Academy. 
Normal— High School. 
Oak Park — Oak Park and River Forest Township 

High School. 
Onarga — Grand Prairie Seminary. 
Ottawa— High School (Township) 
Paris— High School. 
Paxton— High School. 
Pekin— High School. 



Peoria — 

Bradley Polytechnic Institute. 

Central High School. 

Manual Training High School. 
Polo— High School. 
Pontiac— High School (Township). 
Prmceton— High School (Township). 
Quincy — High School. 
Riverside — High School. 
Robinson — High School (Township). 
Rochelle— High School. 
Rockford — High School. 
Rock Island— 

Augustana Academy. 

High School. 
St. Charles— High School. 
Savannah — High School (Township). 
Shelbyville— High School. 
Sterling— High School (Township). 
Streator— High School (Township). 
Sullivan — High School. 
Sycamore — High School. 
Taylorville— High School (Township). 
Tuscola — High School. 
Upper Alton — Western Military Academy. 
Urbana— High School. 
Watseka— High School. 
Waukegan— High School (Township). 
West Chicago— High School. 
Wheaton — 

Academy. 

High School. 
Woodstock— High School. 



INDIANA. 



Alexandria— High School 

Anderson — High School 

Attica — High School. 

Bedford— High School. 

Bloomington — High SchooL 

Brazil— High School. 

Coimersville — 

Ehnhurst School. 
High School. 

Crawfordsville— High Schooi 

Crown Point — High School. 

Culver — Military Academy. 

Decatur— High School. 

East Chicago — High School. 

Elkhart— High School. 

Evansville— High School. 

Fort Wayne— High School. 

Frankfort— High School. 

Franklin — High School. 

Gary — High School. 

Goshen— High School. 

Hammond— High School. 

Hartford City— High School. 

Howe— High School. 

Huntington — High School. 

Indianapolis- 
Manual Training High School. 
Shortridge— High School. 

Jeffersonville- High School. 

Kendallville— High School. 

Kokomo— High School. 

Lafayette— High School. 

La Grange— High School. 



La Porte- High School. 
La^vrenceburg— High School. 
Lebanon— High School. 
Logansport — High School. 
Madison— High School. 
Michigan City— High School. 
Mishawaka— Higii School. 
Mount Vernon— High School. 
Muncie — High School. 
New Castle— High School. 
Noblesville— High School. 
North Manchester— High School. 
Peru— High School. 
Plymouth— High School. 
Princeton— High School. 
Rensselaer— High School. 
Richmond — High School. 
Rochester— High School. 
Rushville— High School. 
Shelbyville— High School. 
Sheridan— High School. 
South Bend— High School. 
Sullivan— High School. 
Terre Haute— 

Garfield High School. 

Normal Training High Schoo. 

Wiley High School. 
Union City— High School. 
Valparaiso— High School. 
Wabash— High School. 
Washington— High School. 
West Lafayette— High School. 
Whiting— High School. 



LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



87 



IOWA. 



Albia— High School. 

Algona— High School. 

Audubon— High School. 

Boone— nigh School. 

Burlington— High School. 

Carroll— High School. 

Cedar Falls- 
High School. 
Iowa State Teachers CoUege, Training School. 

Cedar Rapids— High School. 

Centerville— High School. 

Charles City — High School. 

Cherolcee— High School. 

Clarinda— High School. 

Clinton — High School. 

Coming — High School. 

Corydon— High School. 

Council Blufls— High School. 

Cresco — High School. 

Creston — High School. 

Davenport— High School. 

Decorah— High School. 

Denison — High School. 

Des Moines — 

East High School. 
North High School. 
West High School. 

Dubuque— High School. 

Eagle Grove— High School. 

Elkader — High School. 

Fairfield— High School. 

Fort Dodge— High School. 

Fort Madison— High School. 

Grinnell— High School. 



Ida Grove— High School. 
Independence — High School. 
Indianola — High School. 
Iowa City — High School. 
Keokuk— High School. 
Lemars — High School. 
Logan— High School. 
Manchester— High School. 
Maquoketa— High School. 
Marengo— High School. 
Marshalltown — High School. 
Mason City — High School. 
Missouri Valley — High School. 
Mount Pleasant — High School. 
Muscatine— High School. 
Newton — High School. 
Osage — High School. 
Onawa — High School. 
Oskaloosa — High School. 
Ottumwa— High School. 
Red Oak— High School. 
Rockwell City— High School. 
Sac City— High School . 
Sheldon— High School. 
Sioux City— High School. 
Spencer— High School. 
Villisca— High School. 
Vinton — High School. 
Washington— High School . 
Waterloo — 

East High School. 

West High School. 
Waverly — High School. 
West Liberty— High School. 



KANSAS. 



Abilene— High School. 

Alma — High School. 

Anthony— High School. 

Arkansas City— High School. 

Atchison— High School. 

Baldwin — Baker Academy. 

Burlington— High School. 

Chanute— High School. 

Chapman— Dickinson County High School. 

Cherokee— Crawford County High School. 

Cherryvale — High School. 

Clay Center— Clay County High School. 

CoffeyvUle — High School. 

Columbus — Cherokee County High School. 

Concordia — High School. 

Cottonwood Falls — Chase County High School. 

Dodge City— High School. 

Efiingham — Atchison County High School. 

El Dorado— High School. 

Emporia — 

High School. 

Lewis Academy. 
Eureka — High School. 
Fort Scott— High School. 
Gamett— High School. 
Great Bend— High School. 
Herington — High School. 
Hiawatha— High School. 



Holton— High School. 

Horton — High School. 

Humboldt — High School 

Hutchinson — High School. 

Independence— Montgomery County High School. 

lola— High School. 

Junction City — High School. 

Kansas City — 

High School. 

Sumner High School (colored). 
Kingman— High School. 
Kinsley— High School. 
Lawrence — High School. 
Leavenworth — High School. 
McPherson — High School. 
Marion — High School. 
Marysville — High School. 
Minneapolis — High School. 
Neodesha— High School. 
Newton — 

Bethel Academy. 

High School. 
Nickerson — Reno County High School. 
Oberlin — Decatm- County High School. 
Olathe— High School. 
Ottawa — 

High School. 

University Academy. 



88 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



Paola— High School. 
Peabody— High School. 
Pratt— High School. 
Pittsburg— High School. 
Sabetha — High School. 
Salina — High School. 
Seneca— High School. 
Stafiord— High School. 
Sterling— High School. 



Adrian— High School. 

Albion — High School. 

Alma — High School. 

Alpena — High School. 

Ann Arbor — High School. 

Battle Creek — High School. 

Bay City- 
East side— High School. 
West side — High School. 

Benton Harbor — High School. 

Bessemer — High School. 

Big Rapids — 

Ferris Institute. 
High School. 

Birmingham — High School. 

Boyne City — High School. 

Cadillac— High School. 

Calumet— High School. 

CharlevoLx — High School. 

Cheboygan— High School. 

Charlotte— High School. 

Cold water— High School. 

Crystal Falls— High School. 

Detroit- 
Central High School. 
Eastern High School. 
Higgins High School. 
Liggett School. 
McMillan High School. 
University School. 
Western High School. 

Dollar Bay— High School. 

Dowagiac— High School. 

Escanaba — High School. 

Evarts — High School. 

Flint— High School. 

Fremont— High School. 

Gladstone — High School. 

Grand Rapids- 
Central High School. 
John Calvin, Jr., High School. 
Union High School. 

Grand Haven— High School. 

Greenville — High School. 

Gwinn— High School. 

Hancock — High School. 

Hart— High School. 

Hastings— High School. 

Highland Park— High School. 

Hillsdale— High School. 

Holland — High School. 

Houghton— High School. 



Topeka— 

High School. 

Washburn Academy. 
Wakeeny — Trego County High School. 
Washington — High School. 
Wellington— Sumner County High School. 
Wichita — High School. 
Winlield— High School. 



MICHIGAN. 



Hudson— High School, 
lona— High School. 
Iron Mountain— High School. 
Ironwood— High School. 
Ishpeming— High School. 
Jackson— High School. 
Kalamazoo — High School. 
Lake Linden — High School. 
Lansing— High School. 
Lowell — High School. 
Ludington — High School. 
Manistee — High School. 
Manistique— High School. 
Marshall — High School. 
Marquette— High School. 
Mason— High School. 
Menominee — High School. 
Midland— High School. 
Mom-oe — High School. 
Muskegon — High School. 
Mount Clemens— High School. 
Mount Pleasant— High School. 
Negaunee — High School. 
Newberry — High School. 
Niles— High School. 
Norway — High School. 
Ontonagon— High School. 
Otsego— High School. 
Owosso — High School. 
Painesdale — High School. 
Paw Paw — High School. 
Petoskey — High School. 
Pontiac — High School. 
Port Huron — High School. 
Portland— High School. 
River Rouge — High School. 
Saginaw — 

East side — High School. 

West side— High School. 
Sault Ste. Marie — High School. 
South Haven— High School. 
St. Johns— High School. 
St. Joseph— High School. 
St. Louis — High School. 
Sturgis — High School. 
Three Rivers — High School. 
Traverse City— High School. 
Union City— High School. 
Wakefield— High School. 
Williamston— High School. 
Wyandotte — High School. 
Ypsilanti— High School. 



LISTS OP ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



89 



MINNESOTA. 



Albert Lea — High School. 
Alexandria — High School. 
Anoka — High School. 
Austin — High School. 
Bemidji — High School. 
Blue Earth— High School. 
Brainerd — High School. 
Canby— High School. 
Chlsholm— High School. 
Cloquet— High School. 
Coleraine— High School. 
Crookston — High School. 
Detroit— High School. 
Duluth — Central High School. 
East Grand Forks— High School. 
Ely— High School. 
Eveleth- High School. 
Fairmont— High School. 
Faribault — 

High School. 

Shattuck Military Academy. 
Fergus Falls— High School. 
GUbert- High School. 
Glencoe— High School. 
Grand Rapids— High School. 
Hastings — High School. 
Hector— High School. 
Hibbing— High School. 
Hutchinson- High School. 
Jackson — High School. 
Lake City— High School. 
Litchfield— High School. 
Little Falls— High School. 
Luverne— High School. 
Mankato— High School. 
Marshall — High School. 
Minneapolis — 

Central High School. 

East High School. 



Minneapolis — C on tinned . 

North High School. 

South High School. 

West High School. 
Montevideo— High School. 
Moorhead— High School. 
Morris — High School. 
New Ulm— High School. 
Northfleld— High School. 
Owatonna — 

High School. 

Pilhbury Academy. 
Pipestone— High School. 
Red Wing— High School. 
Redwood Falls— High School. 
Rochester— High School. 
St. Cloud— High School. 
St. James— High School. 
St. Paul- 
Central High School. 

Cleveland High School. 

Humboldt High School. 

John A. Johnson High School 

Mechanic Arts High School. 
St. Peter- High School. 
Sauk Center— High School. 
Sleepy Eye— High School. 
Spring Valley— High School. 
Stillwater— High School. 
Thief River Falls— High School. 
Two Harbors — High School. 
Virginia— High School. 
Wadena— High School. 
Waseca— High School. 
Wells— High School. 
Willmar — High School. 
Windom— High School. 
Winona— High School. 
Worthington— High School. 



MISSOUBI. 



Boonville — Kemper Military School. 

Butler— High School. 

Cameron — High School. 

Carrollton— High School. 

Carthage — High School. 

Chillicothe— High School. 

Clayton— High School. 

Columbia— 

Christian College Academy. 
High School. 

Stephens College Academy. 
University High School. 

Fayette— High School. 

Fredericktown — High School. 

Fulton- 
High School. 
Wm. Woods College Academy. 

Hannibal— High School. 

Kansas City- 
Central High School. 
North East High SohooL 
Westport High School. 



Kennett — High School. 

Kirkwood — High School. 

Lebanon— High School. 

Lexington — 
High School. 
Wentworth Military Academy. 

Maplewood — High School. 

Maryville — High School. 

Mexico — 

High School. 

Hardin College Academy. 

Nevada— Co<<f 2/ College Academy. 

Paris — High School. 

Poplar Bluff— High School. 

St. Charles- 
High School. 
Lindenwood College Academy 

St. Joseph — High School. 

St. Louis- 
Central High School. 
Forest Park College Academy 
Hosmer Hall. 



90 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



St. Louis — Continued. 

McKinley High School. 

Manual Training School, Washington University. 

Mary Institute. 

Smith Academy. 

Soldan High School. 

Sumner High School. 

Yeatman High School. 



Savannah— High School. 
Sedalla— High School. 
Shelbina High School. 
Slater— High School. 
Trenton— High School. 
Webb City— High School. 
Webster Groves — High School. 
WeUston— High School. 



MONTANA. 



Anaconda— High School. 
Billings— High School. 
Butte— High School. 
Bozeman— Gallatin County High School. 
Bigtimber— Sweet Grass County High School. 
Deer Lodge— Powell County High School. 
Dillon— Beaverhead County High School. 
Glendive— Dawson County High School. 



Great Falls— High School. 

Hamilton — High School. 

Havre — High School. 

Helena — High School. 

Kalispell— Flathead Coimty High School. 

Lewistown — Fergus County High School. 

Miles City— Custer County High School. 

Missoula— County High School. 



NEBRASKA. 



Alliance— High School. 
Ashland— High School. 
Auburn- High School. 
Aurora— High School. 
Beatrice— High School. 
Blair— High School. 
Columbia— High School. 
Crete— 

Doane Academy. 

High School. 
David City— High School. 
Edgar— High School. 
Fairbury— High School. 
Fairmount— High School. 
Falls City— High School. 
Franklin — Academy. 
Fremont — High School. 
Friend — High School. 
Fullerton— High School. 
Grand Island— 

Academy. 

High School. 
Hastings— 

Academy. 

High School. 
Havelock— High School. 
Hebron— High School. 
Holdrege— High School. 
Kearney — High School. 
Lincoln — 

High School. 

NebrasJ:a Military Academy. 



Lincoln — Continued. 

Teachers' College High School, University of 
Nebraska. 
McCook — High School. 
Nebraska City — High School. 
Neligh — High School. 
Newman Grove — High School. 
Norfolk— High School. 
North Platte— High School. 
Omaha — 

Brownell Hall. 

High School. 
Osceola — High School. 
Pawnee — High School. 
Schuyler— High School. 
Scottsblu£f— High School. 
Seward— High School. 
Shelton— High School. 
Sidney— High School. 
South Omaha— High School. 
Superior — High School. 
Tecumseh— High School. 
Tekamah — High School. 
University Place — 

High School. 

Nebraska Wesley an Academy. 
Wahoo— High School. 
Wayne— High School. 
West Point— High School. 
Wilber— High School. 
York— High School. 



NORTH DAKOTA. 



Agricultural College— Agricultural and Manual 

Training High School. 
Beach— High School. 
Bismarck— High School. 
Bottineau— High School. 
Cando — High School. 
Carrington — High School. 
Casselton— High School. 
Devils Lake— High School. 
Dickinson— High School. 
Fargo— High School. 
Grafton— High School. 
Grand Forks— High School. 
Hope— High School. 
Jamestown— High School. 



Kenmare— High School. 
Lakota— High School. 
La Moure— High School. 
Langdon — High School. 
Larimore — High School. 
Lisbon— High School. 
Mandan— High School. 
Minot— High School. 
New Rockford— High School. 
Park River— High School. 
University— Model High School. 
Valley City— High School. 
Wahpeton— High School. 
Williston— High School. 



LISTS OF ACCREDITING ASSOCIATIONS. 



91 



OHIO. 



Akron — 

Buchtel Academy. 

Central High School. 

South High School. 
Alliance— High School. 
Ashland — High School 
Ashtabula— High School. 
Ashtabula Harbor— High School. 
Athens — High School. 
Barberton— High School. 
Bellaire— High School. 
Bellefontaine — High School. 
Bellevue — High School. 
Bluflton— High School. 
Bowling Green— High School. 
Bryan — High School. 
Bucyrus — High School. 
Cambridge — High School. 
Canal Dover- High School. 
Canton — High School. 
Celina — High School. 
Chardon — High School. 
Chicago Junction — High School. 
Chillicothe— High School. 
Cincinnati— 

College Preparatory School for Girls. 

Franklin School. 

Hartwell High School. 

Hughes High School. 

Wahiut Hills High School. 

Woodward High School. 

University School. 
Circleville— High School. 
Cleveland- 
Central High School. 

East High School. 

East Technical High School. 

Glenville High School. 

Lincoln High School. 

South High School. 

West High School. 

West Technical High School. 

University School. 
Cleveland Heights— High School. 
College Hill— Oftio Military Institute. 
Columbus- 
Clinton High School. 

East High School. 

North High School. 

South High School. 

School for Girls. 

West High School. 
Conneaut— High School. 
Coshocton — High School. 
Cuyahoga Falls- High School. 
Dayton— 

Steele High School. 

5^ Mary's Institute. 

Stivers Manual Training High School. 
Defiance — High School. 
Delaware — High School. 
Delphos — High School. 
Dennison— High School. 
East Cleveland— High School. 
East Liverpool— High School. 
East Palestine— High School. 



Eaton— High School. 
Elyria — High School. 
Findlay— High School. 
Foster ia — High School. 
Fremont — High School. 
Gallon — High School. 
Gallipolis — High School. 
Geneva— High School. 
Granville— Doone Academy. 
Greenfield— High School. 
Greenville — High School. 
Hamilton— High School. 
Hillsboro — High School. 
Ironton — High School. 
Jackson — High School. 
Jefferson — High School. 
Kent— High School. 
Kenton— High School. 
Lakewood — High School. 
Lancaster — High School. 
Lima — High School. 
Lisbon— High School. 
Lockland— High School. 
Logan— High School. 
London — High School. 
Lorain— High School. 
Madisonville — High School. 
Mansfield— High School. 
Marietta — High School. 
Marion — High School. 
Martins Ferry — High School. 
Marysville — High School. 
Massillon — High School. 
Madina— High School. 
Miamisburg — High School. 
Middletown— High School. 
Mount Vernon — High School. 
Napoleon — High School. 
Nelsonville— High School. 
Newark — High School. 
New Bremen — High School. 
New Concord — High School. 
New Lexington — High School. 
New Philadelphia— High School. 
Niles— High School. 
North Baltimore — High School. 
Norwalk— High School. 
Norwood — High School. 
Oberlin— 

Academy. 

High School. 
Orrville — High School. 
Painesville — High School. 
Piqua— High School. 
Plain City— High School 
Pomeroy — High School. 
Port Clinton — High School. 
Portsmouth — High School. 
Ravenna — High School. 
Reily— High School (Township). 
Salem— High School. 
Sandusky — High School. 
Shelby— High School. 
Springfield- High School. 
Sidney — High School. 
Steubenville— High School. 



92 



ACCEEDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



Saint Marys— High School. 

Tiffin— High School. 

Tippecanoe City — High School. 

Toledo- 
Central High School. 
Scott High School. 
Smead School. 

Troy— High School. 

Uhrichsville— High School. 

Upper Sandusky— High School. 
High School. 
University School. 
Urbana- 

Van Wert — High School. 

Wadsworth— High School. 

Wapakoneta— High School. 

Warren— High School. 



Anadarko— High School. 

Ardmore — High School. 

Bartlesville— High School. 

Blackwell— High School. 

Chickasha— High School. 

El Reno— High School. 

Enid- 
High School. 
Phillips University High School. 

Guthrie— High School. 

Hugo — High School. 



Aberdeen— High School. 
Brookings— High School. 
Canton— High School. 
Deadwood— High School, 
riandreau— High School. 
Huron — High School. 
Lead— High School. 
Madison— High School. 
Miller— High School. 
Mitchell— High School. 



Antigo— High School. 
Appleton— High School. 
Ashland— High School. 
Baraboo— High School. 
Beaver Dam — 

High School. 

Wayland Academy. 
Beloit— High School. 
Berlin— High School. 
Boscobel— High School. 
Burlington— High School. 
Chippewa Falls- High School. 
Columbus— High School. 
Delafleld— S/. John's Military Academy. 
Delavan— High School. 
Dodgeville— High School. 
Eau Claii-e- High School. 
Edgerton— High School. 



Washington— High School. ■ 
Wauseon — High School. 
Wellston— High School. 
Wellsville— High School. 
Westerville — High School. 
West Jefferson— High School. 
Willoughby— High School. 
Wilmington — High School. 
Wooster — 

Academy. 

High School. 
Wyoming — High School. 
Xenia — High School. 
Youngstown — 

Rayen High School. 

South High School. 
Zanesville— High School. 



OKLAHOMA. 



Lawton— High School. 

McAlester— High School. 

Muskogee — High School. 

Okmulgee — High School. 

Oklahoma — High School. 

Sapulpa — High School. 

Shawnee— High School. 

Tonkawa — University Preparatory School. 

Tulsa— High School. 

Vinita— High School. 

Wagoner— High School. 



SOUTH DAKOTA. 



Pierre— High School. 
Rapid City— High School. 
Redfield— High School. 
Sioux Falls- 

All Saints School. 

High School. 
Vermilion— High School. 
Watertown— High School. 
Webster— High School. 
Yankton— High School. 



WISCONSIN. 



Elkhorn— High School. 
Ellsworth— High School. 
Elroy— High School. 
Evansville— High School. 
Feimimore— High School. 
Fond du Lac — High School. 
Fort Atkinson— High School. 
Grand Rapids— High School. 
Green Bay — 

(East)— High School. 

(West)— High School. 
Hartford— High School. 
Hudson— High School. 
Janesville — High School. 
Kaukauna — High School. 
Kenosha— High School. 
La Crosse— High School. 
Lake Geneva— High SchooL 



LISTS OF ACCREDITED ASSOCIATIONS. 



93 



Lancaster— High School. 
Lodi— High School. 
Madison — 

High School. 

Wisconsin High School. 
Manitowoc— High School. 
Marinette— High School. 
Marshfield— High School. 
Medford— High School. 
Menasha— High School. 
Menomonie— High School. 
Merrill— High School. 
Milwaukee — 

(East)— High School. 

(North)— High School. 

(South)— High School. 

(West)— High School. 

Milwaukee-Downer Seminary. 
Mineral Point— High School. 
Monroe — High School. 
Neenah— High School. 
Neillsville— High School. 
New London— High School. 
New Richmond— High School. 
Oconomowoc— High School. 
Oconto — High School. 
Oshkosh— High School. 
Platteville— High School. 
Plymouth— High School. 
Portage— High School. 



Racine — 

College Grammar School. 

High School. 
Reedsburg- High School. 
Rhinelander— High School. 
Rice Lake— High School. 
Richland Center — High School. 
Ripon— High School. 
River Falls— High School. 
Sheboygan— High School. 
Sinsinawa — St. Clara Academy. 
South Milwaukee— High School. 
Sparta — High School. 
Stanley — High School. 
Stoughton— High School. 
Sturgeon Bay— High School. 
Superior — 

Central High School. 

Nelson Dewey High School. 
Tomah— High School. 
Washburn— High School. 
Watertown — High School. 
Waukesha— High School. 
Waupaca— High School. 
Waupim— High School. 
Wausau— High School. 
Wauwatosa— High School. 
West Allis— High School. 
West Bend— High School. 
Whitewater— High School. 



Cheyeime— High School. 
Laramie— High School. 



WYOMING. 

I Sheridan— High School. 



PART III.— LISTS OF CERTAIN PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 



Schools in Washington, D. C, Accredited by George Washington University, 

October 13, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 2^ 

Foreign languages 2 

Electives 7i 



Army and Navy Preparatory School. 

Bristol School. 

Central High School. 

Chevy Chase Seminary. 

p:astem High School. 

Emerson Institute. 

Fairmont Seminary. 

Friends' Select School. 

Gnnston Hall. 

Hall-Noyes School. 

HoUon-A rms School. 

Madeira School for Oirls. 



Manual Training High School. 
Martha Washiiigton Semvnary. 
M Street High School. 
Mount Vernon Seminary. 
Misses Eastman's School. 
National Cathedral School for Boys. 
National Cathedral School for Girls. 
Washington Collegiate School. 
Washington College. 
Washington Seminary. 
Western High School. 



94 



ACCEEDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Schools AfiOliated with the Catholic University of America, June, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

Religion. 2 

English 3 

Some other language 2 

Mathematics 2 

Social science (including history) 1 

Natural science 1 

Electives (must be selected in such a way as to give another course besides English of 3 

units) 4 



Alabama: 

Birmingham — Blessed Sacrament Academy. 
California: 

San Francisco— iVoirc Dame College Academy. 
San Jose— 

College of Notre Dame, Secondary Depart- 
ment. 
Notre Dame High School. 
Colorado: 

Denver — St. Mary's Academy. 
Loretto — Loretto Heights A cademy. 
Connecticut: 

Waterburj' — Notre Dame Academy. 
Georgia: 

Atlanta — Marist College, High School Depart- 
ment. 
Augusta— JlfoMK^ St. Joseph. 
Illinois: 

Chicago — 

Our Lady of Lourdes High School. 
St. Mary's High School. 
Evanston — Visitation Academy. 
Indiana: 

St. Mary's— Si. Mary-of-the- Woods. 
Iowa: 

Dubuque — St. Joseph's College and Academy. 
Kentucky: 

Loretto — Loretto Academy. 
Newport — 

Academy of Notre Dame of Providence. 
Mount St. Martin's Convent. 
Massachusetts: 

Arlington Heights — Mary cliff Academy. 
Boston — Boston Academy of Notre Dame. 
Lowell — Notre Dame Academy. 
Iloxbury — Notre Dame Academy. 
Michigan: 

Ironwood — St. Ambrose High School. 
Monroe — St. Mary's College and Academy. 
Minnesota: 

Duluth — Villa Sancta Scholastica. 
St. Joseph — St. Benedict's College and Academy. 
Missoiu"i: 

Kansas City — Loretto Academy. 
St. Louis — St. Joseph's Academy. 
New York: 

Buffalo — Mary Immaculate Academy. 
Lockport — St. Joseph's Academy. 
Tarry town — Marymount. 
Ohio: 

Cincinnati — 

Mount St. Vincent Academy. 
Mount Notre Dame Academy. 
Notre Dame Academy (Court and Mound 
Streets). 



Ohio — Continued . 

Cincinnat i— Continued . 

Noire Dame Academy (East Sixth Street). 

Notre Dame Academy (Grandin Road). 

Oibr Lady of Mercy Academy. 

St. Mary's High School. 

St. Ursula's Academy. 
Cleveland— J7rsMZinc Academy. 
Columbus — St. Joseph's Academy. 
Dayton — Notre Dame Academy. 
Hamilton — Notre Dame Academy. 
Maria Stein — Mother House, Sisters of the 

Precious Blood. 
Nottingham — TJrsuline Academy, Villa Angela. 
St. Joseph — Mount St. Joseph-on-the-Ohio. 
Toledo— 

St. Francis de Sales Cathedral High School. 

Vrsuline Academy. 
Oregon: 

Portland— Si. Mary's Academy. 
Pennsylvania: 

Greensbiu'g- Si. Joseph's Academy. 
Philadelphia- 

Academy of Notre Dame. 

Mount St. Joseph Convent. 
Pittsburgh — Holy Rosary School. 
Scranton — Mount St. Mary's Seminary. 
Wilkes-Barre— Si. Mary's High School. 
Tennessee: 

Nashville — St. Bernard Academy. 
Texas: 

Dallas— 

Our Lady of Good Counsel Academy. 

St. Edward's Academy. 
Denison — St. Xavicr's Academy. 
Fort Worth— 

Our Lady of Victory College and Academy. 

St. Ignatius Academy. 
San Antonio— 

College and Academy of the Incarnate Word. 

Our Lady of the Lake. 
Sherman^Si. Joseph's Academy. 
Waco — Sacred Heart Academy. 
Wichita Falls — Mary Immaculate Academy. 
Washington: 

Tacoma — Aquinas Academy. 
Wisconsin: 

Green Bay — St. Joseph Academy. 
Milwaukee — 

Holy A ngels A cademy. 

St. John's Cathedral High School. 
Sinsinawa— Si. Clara College and Academy. 



LISTS OF CERTAIN PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 



95 



Accredited by the University of Chicago, Chicago, 111., June, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements ^5 

Prescribed units: 

Enelisli "^ 

Selected from the following subjects: Latin, Greek, modern language, history, mathe- 

7 

5 



matics, science. 
Electives 



Alabama: 

Birmingham— High School. 
Mobile— High School. 
Montgomery— Girls' High School. 
Arkansas: 

Fort Smith— High School. 
Hot Springs— High School. 
Little Rock— High School. 
California: 

Los Angeles— High School. 
Pasadena— High School. 
San Francisco — 

Girls' High School. - 
Lowell High School. 
Colorado: 

Colorado Springs— High School. 
Denver — 

East Side High School. 
North Side High School. 
West Side High School. 
Leadville— High School. 
Pueblo- 
Centennial High School. 
Central High School. 
Georgia: 

Atlanta— Girls' High School. 
Idaho: 

Pocatello— High School. 
Ulinois: 

Aledo — Drury Academy. 
Alton— High School. 
Atlanta— High School. 
Auburn— High School. 
Aurora — 

East Side High School. 
Jennings Seminary. 
West Side High School. 
Beardstown— High School. 
Belvidere — 

Main Street High School. 
South Belvidere High School. 
Bloomington— High School. 
Blue Island— High School. 
Cairo— High School. 
Carthage — 

Carthage College Academy. 
High School. 
Centralia— Township High School. 
Charleston— High School. 
Chicago- 
Austin High School. 
Bowen High School. 
Calumet High School. 
Carl Schm-z High School. 
Crane Technical High School. 
Curtis High School. 
Englewood High School. 
Faulkner School. 

Carter Harrison Technical High School. 
Hyde Park High School. 



Illinois — Continued. 
Chicago — Continued. 
Kenwood Institute 
Lake High School. 
Lake View High School. 
Lane Technical High School. 
Marshall High School. 
McKinley High School. 
Medill High School. 
Morgan Park High School. 
Francis W. Parker School. 
Siarrett School for Girls. 
St. James High School. 
Tuley High School. 
University High School. 
University School for Boys. 
Waller High School. 
Wendell Phillips High School. 
Y. M. C. A. Institute. 
Chicago Heights— Bloom Township High 

School. 
Clinton— High School. 
Clyde— High School. 
Danville— High School. 
Decatur— High School. 
DeKalb— 

High School. 

Northern Illinois State Normal School. 
Des Plaines— Township High School. 
Dixon— 

North Side High School. 
South Side High School. 
Du Quoin— Township High School. 
East St. Louis— High School. 
Elgin— 

Elgin Academy. 
High School. 
Evanston— Township High School. 
Freeport- High School. 
Galesburg— High School. 
Galva— High School. 
Geneseo— Township High School. 
Geneva— High School. 
GoAiVQy— Monticello Seminary. 
Harrisburg— Township High School. 
Harvard— High School. 
Harvey— Thornton Township High School. 
Havana— High School. 
Highland Park— Deerlield Township High 

School. 
Hinsdale— High School. 
Hoopeston— High School. 
Jacksonville- 
High School. 

Illinois Woman's College, Academy. 
Joliet— Township High School. 
Kankakee— High School. 
Kenil worth— New Trier Township High School. 
Kewanee— High School. 



96 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Ulinois — Continued. 

La Grange— Lyons Township High School. 
Lake Forest — 

Lake Forest School for Boys. 
Ferry Hall. 
La Salle— Peru To\\nship High SchooL 
Lexington— High School. 
Lincoln— High School. 
Lockport— TowTiship High School. 
Macomb — 

High School. 

We.stcrn Illinois Normal School Academy. 
Marshall— High School. 
Mattoon— High School. 
Maywood— Proviso Township High School. 
Mendota— High School. 
Moline— High School. 
Monmouth— High School. 
Morgan Park — Morgan Park Academy. 
Morris— High School. 
Morrison — High School. 
Mount Vernon— Township High School. 
Murphysboro— Murphysboro Township High 

School. 
Normal— High School. 

Oak Park— Oak Park and River Forest Town- 
ship High School. 
Ottawa— Township High School. 
Paris— High School. 
Pekin— High School. 
Peoria — 

Central High School. 
Manual Training High School. 
Polo— High School. 
Pontiac— Township High School. 
Princeton— Township High School. 
Quincy— High School. 
Riverside— High School. 
Robmson— Township High School. 
Rochelle— High School. 
Rockford— High School. 
Rock Island— High School. 
Roscville— High School. 
St. Charles— High School. 
Springfield— High School. 
Sterling— High School. 
Streator— To^vnship High SchooL 
Sullivan— High School. 
Sycamore — 

High School. 
Waterman Hall. 
Taylorville— High School. 
Tuscola— High School. 
Waukegan— Township High School. 
West Chicago— High School. 
Upper Alton— Western Military Academy. 
Wheaton — High School. 
Woodstock— High School. 
Indiana: 

Anderson — High School. 
Attica — High School. 
Auburn— High School. 
Bedford— High School. 
Columbia City— High School. 
Connersville — 
High School. 
Elmhurst School for Girls. 
Crawfordsvillc— High School. 



Indiana — Continued. 

Crown Point — High School. ' 
East Chicago — High School. 
Elkhart— High School. 
Evansville— High School. 
Fort Wayne — High School. 
Frankfort — High School. 
Franklin— High School. 
Goshen — High School. 
Hammond — High School. 
Hartford City — High School. 
Huntington— High School. 
Indianapolis — 

Manual Training High SchooL 
Shortridge High School. 

Tudor Hall School for Girls. 
Kokomo — High School. 
Lafayette — High School. 
La Porte — High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 
Ligonier — High School. 
Logansport — High School. 
Marion — High School. 
Michigan City— High School. 
Mishawaka — High School. 
Muncie— High School. 
New Albany— High School. 
New Castle— High School. 
Noblesville — High School. 
North Manchester— High School. 
Notre Dame — St. Mary's Academy. 
Plymouth— High School. 
Rensselaer — High School. 
Richmond— High School. 
Rochester — High School. 
Rushville— High School. 
Salem— High School. 
Shelbyville— High School. 
Sheridan— High School. 
South Bend — High School. 
Terre Haute — 

High School. 

Garfield High School. 

State Normal School, High School section. 
Union City — High School. 
Valparaiso— High School. 
Vincennes— High School. 
Wabash— High School. 
Warsaw— High School. 
Washington— High School. 
Whiting— High School. 

Winona Lake— Winona Park School for Girls. 
Iowa: 

Boone — High School. 
Burlington— High School. 
Carroll— High School. 
Cedar Rapids— High School. 
Clartnda— High School. 
Clinton— High School. 
Council Bluffs- High School. 
Creston— High School. 
Davenport — 

High School. 

St. Katherine's Hall. 
Des Moines — 

East Side High School. 

North Side High School. 

West Side High School. 



LISTS OF CERTAIN PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 



97 



Iowa — Continued. 

Dubuque— High School. 

Fort Dodge— High School. 

Glcnwood — High School. 

Grinnell— High School. 

Independence— High School. 

Iowa City — High School. 

Keokuk — High School. 

Maquoketa— High School. 

Marengo — High School. 

Marshalltown— High School. 

Mason City— High School. 

Muscatine — High School. 

Newton — High School. 

Oskaloosa — High School. 

Ottumwa — High School. 

Red Oak— High School. 

Sioux City— High School. 

Vinton— High School. 

Washington— High School. 

Waterloo— East Side High School. 

West Waterloo — High School. 

West Liberty — High School. 
Kansas: 

Abilene — High School. 

Atchison — High School. 

Chanute — High School. 

Columbus— Cherokee County High School. 

Clay Center — High School. 

Cofleyville— High School. 

Emporia — High School. 

Fort Scott— High School. 

Hiawatha — High School. 

Hutchinson — High School. 

lola — High School. 

Junction City — High School. 

Kansas City- 
High School. 
Sumner High School. 

Lawrence — High School. 

Leavenworth — High School. 

McPherson — High School. 

Topeka— High School. 

Wichita— High School. 

Winfield— High School. 
Kentucky: 

LouisviUe — 

Boys' High School. 
Girls' High School. 
Manual Training High School. 
Semple Collegiate High School. 
Moore Primary School. 

Owensboro — High School. 

Paducah— High School. 
Louisiana: 

Monroe — High School. 
Maine: 

Waterville— Coburn Classical Institute. 
Michigan: 

Battle Creek— High School. 

Bay City- 
High School. 
Western High School. 

Benton Harbor— High School. 

Cadillac — High School. 

Calumet— High School. 

Coldwater— High School. 
75087°— 15 7 



M ichigan — Con t inue d . 
Detroit — 

Central High School. 

Detroit Home and Day School. 

Eastern High School. 

Western High School. 
Escanaba — High School. 
Flint— High School. 
Grand Rapids— Central High School. 
Ishpeming— High School. 
Jackson— High School. 
Kalamazoo — High School. 
Lake Linden — High School. 
Marquette — High School. 
Menominee — High School. 
Muskegon— Manual Training High School. 
Orchard Lake — Michigan Military Academy i 
Petoskey— High School. 
Saginaw— 

East Side High School. 

West Side High School. 
St. Joseph — High School. 
Sturgis — High School. 
Mississippi: 

Laurel — High School. 
Minnesota: 

Albert Lea— High School. 
Coleraine — High School. 
Duluth— High School. 
Eveleth— High School. 
Faribault — 

St. Mary's Hall. 

The Shattuck School. 
Hibbing — High School. 
Marshall— State High School. 
Minneapolis — 

Central High School. 

East Side High School. 

North Side High School. 

South Side High School. 

West Side High School. 
Owatonna — Pillsbury Academy. 
Rochester— High School. 
St. Paul- 
Central High School. 

Humboldt Park High School. 

John A. Johnson High School. 

St. Catherine's College. 
Winona— High School. 
Missouri: 

Carrollton— High School. 
Chillicothe— High School. 
Kansas City — 

Central High School. 

Manual Training High School. 

Westport High School. 
St. Joseph— High School. 
St. Louis — 

Central High School. 

College Preparatory of Forest Park Univef' 
sity. 

Hosmer High School. 

Mary Institute. 

McKinley High School. 

Smith Academy. 

Soldan High School. 

Yeatman High School. 



98 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Montana: 

Anaconda — High School. 
Billings — High School. 
Bozeman — Gallatin County High School. 
Butte — High School. 
Great Falls— High School. 
Helena — High School. 
Nebraska: 

Beatrice — High School. 
Fremont— High School. 
Holdredge— High School. 
Kearney — 

High School. 

State Normal School. 
Lincoln — High School. 
Omaha — 

Brownell Hall. 

High School. 
South Omaha — High School. 
New York: 

Buffalo— Hasten Park High School. 
Ohio: 

Akron — 

Central High School. 

South High School. 
Ashtabula — High School. 
Canton — High School. 
Cincinnati — 

Hughes High School. 

Madisonville High School. 

Wahiut Hills High School. 

Woodward High School. 
Cleveland — 

Central High School. 

East Side High School. 

East Technical High School. 

Glenville High School. 

l/incoln High School. 

South Side High School. 

West Side High School. 

University School. 
Columbus — 

Central High School. 

East Side High School. 

North Side High School. 

South Side High School. 
Dayton— 

Steele High School. 

Stivers Manual Training High School. 
East Cleveland— Shaw High School. 
Elyria— High School. 
Findlay — High School. 
Fostoria — High School. 
Granville — Doane Academy. 
Hamilton — High School. 
Lima — High School. 
Middletown — High School. 
Napoleon — High School. 
Newark — High School. 
OberHn— High School. 
Painesville — High School. 
Sandusky — High School. 
Tiftin— High School. 
Toledo- 
Scott High School. 

Central High School. 
Yoimgstown — 

High School. 

South High School. 



Oklahoma: 

Ardmore— High School. 

Enid— High School. 

Guthrie — High School. 

McAlester — High School. 

Muskogee — High School. 

Oklahoma— High School. 

Shawnee — High School. 

Tonkawa — Oklahoma University Preparatory 
School. 

Tulsa— High School. 
Pennsylvania: 

Harrisburg — High School. 

Pittsburgh— Central High School. 

Westtown — Westtown Boarding School. 
North Dakota: 

Grafton — High School. 
South Dakota: 

Aberdeen— High School. 

Lead — High School. 
Tennessee: 

Bell Buckle— The Webb School. 

Lebanon— Castle Heights School. 

Memphis — University School. 

Pulaski — Massey School. 
Utah: 

Ogden — High School. 
Texas: 

Amarillo — High School. 

Austin — High School. 

Beaiunont — High School. 

Dallas— High School. 

Denison — High School. 

El Paso— High School. 

Fort Worth— High School 

Galveston — High School. 

Hillsboro — High School. 

Houston — High School. 

San Antonio — High School. 

Sherman — High School. 

Waco — High School. 
Washington: 

Reardan — High School. 

Seattle— High School. 

Spokane— High School. 
Wisconsin: 

Appleton — Ryan High School. 

Beloit — High School. 

Berlin— High School. 

Black River Falls— High School. 

Chippewa Falls — High School. 

Delafleld— Si. John's Military Academy. 

Eau Claire — High School. 

Elkhom— High School. 

Fond du Lac — High School. 

Grand Rapids — High School. 

Hillside — Hillside Home School. 

Janesville — High School. 

Kenosha — High School. 

La Crosse — High School. 

Lake Geneva— High School. 

Manitowoc — North Side High School. 

Marshfleld — High School. 

Milwaukee — 

East Division High School. 
South Division High School. 
West Division High School. 
Milwaukee-Dotcner Seminary. 



LISTS OF CERTAIN PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 



99 



Wisconsin — Continued . 

NeillsvUle— High School. 
Oconoraowoc — High School. 
Oshkosh — High School. 
Racine — High School. 
Sheboygan— High School. 
Stoughton— High School. 
Sturgeon Bay— High School. 



Wisconsin — Continued. 
Superior — 

Blaine High School. 

Nelson-Dewey High School. 
Waukesha — 

Carroll College, Preparatory Department. 

High School. 
Waupaca — High School. 



AfiBliated with Tulane University of Louisiana, October 1, 1914. 



Entrance requirements 

Prescribed units: 

Engl ish 

Mathematics 

Foreign language 

Latin 

Greek or science (1) and history (1). 
Electives 



Units. 
.. 14 J 



Alabama: 

Birmingham— City High School. 

Gadsden— High School. 

Marion — Military Institute. 

Mobile- 
High School. 
University Military School. 

Montgomery — University School. 
Arkansas: 

Hope — High School. 

Magnolia— High School. 

Pine Bluff— High School. 
Florida: 

Pensacola— High School. 
Georgia: 

Columbus— High School. 
Louisiana: 

Abbeville— High School. 

Alexandria— High School. 

Arcadia— High School. 

Bastrop — High School. 

Baton Rouge— High School. 

Bienville— High School. 

Brusly- High School. 

Crowley— High School. 

Donaldsonville— High School. 

Franklin— High School. 

Gibsland— High School. 

Hammond— High School. 

Homer— High School. 

Houma— 

High School. 

Lorton Preparatory School. 

Jennings — High School. 

Lake Charles— High School. 

MarksviUe— High School. 

Minden — Graded High School. 

Monroe — 

City High School. 

Ouachita Parish High School. 



Louisiana— Continued. 

Napoleonville — High School. 
New Iberia — High School. 
New Orleans — 

Chenet Institute. 

L. C. Ferrell's School for Boys. 

Isidore Newman Manual Training High 
School. 

Rughy Academy. 

St. Aloysius College. 

Warren Easton High School. 
Opelousas— High School. 
St. Martinsville — High School. 
Shreveport- High School. 
TaUulah— High School. 
Vidalia— High School. 
Washington — High School. 
Mississippi: 

Como— High School. 
Laurel — High School. 
Meridian — High School. 
Natchez — High School. 
Washington — Jejferson Military College. 
Teimessee: 

Lebanon— Castle Heights High School. 
Martin — McFerrin Training School. 
Memphis — High School. 
Texas: 

Beaumont— High School. 
Bryan — Allen Academy . 
Dallas— High School. 
Denton — High School. 
Dublin— High School. 
Ennis — High School. 
Fort Worth— High School. 
Houston— High School. 
San Antonio— High School. 
Sherman— High School. 
Victoria — High School. 
AVaco — High School. 



Accredited by Jolins Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., June, 1914. 

Entrance to Johns Hopkins University is usually by examination, but "applicants are received without 
examination from certain schools in or near the city of Baltimore which have been approved by the board 
of collegiate studies, provided their 'applications' fully and satisfactorily cover the requirements for 
admission. In the case of other schools, and in the case of candidates from approved schools whose cer- 



100 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



tificates are not fully satisfactory, examinations are required, either upon all the subjects necessary for 
matriculation or upon selected portions of these subjects, at the discretion of the committee on admission." 



Baltimore— 

Boys' Latin School. 
City CoUege. 
Friends' School. 
Jefferson School. 
Park School. 



Baltimore — Continued. 

Polytechnic Institute. 

University School/or Boys. 
Roland Park — Oilman Country School. 
Port Deposit — Jacob Tome Institute. 



Schools in Maryland Accredited by St. John's CoUege, Oct., 1914. 



Entrance requirements. 
Prescribed units: 

Latin 

English 

Mathematics . . . 

History 

Greek 

Electives 



Units. 
... 14 



4 
3 
3 
2 

12 
■'2 



Annapolis — High School. 

Baltimore- 
City College. 
Boys' Latin School. 
Deichman School for Boys. 
University School for Boyn. 

Bel Air- High School. 

Cambridge— High School. 

Centreville— High School. 

Charlotte 'Kail— Academy. 

Chestertown— High School. 

Crisfield— High School. 

Cumberland— High School. 

Denton— High School. 

Easton— High School. 

Elkton— High School. 

EUicott City— High School. 

Frederick- High School. 



Hagerstown — High School. 
Havre de Grace— High School. 
Laurel — High School. 
Lonaconing— High School. 
Middletown— High School. 
Millersville — Anne Arundel Academy. 
Oakland— High School. 
Port Deposit — Jacob Tome Institute, 
Pocomoke City — High School. 
Keisterstown— High School. 
Rockville — 

Academy. 

High School. 
Roland Park — Gilman Country School. 
Salisbury— High School. 
Towson — High School. 
Westminster — High School. 



Schools Outside of New England Accredited by Mount Holyoke College, 

Oct. 3, 1914. 

(The schools accredited by Moimt Holyoke in New England are those of the New England College Entrance 

Certificate Board.) 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 3 

History 1 

Latin 4 

Electives 4 



Alabama: 

Montgomery— Lanier High School. 
California: 

Claremont— High School. 

Fowler — Union High School. 

Los Angeles — Marlborough School. 

Palo Alto— Castillcja School. 

Pasadena— High School. 

Redlands— High School. 

Riverside— Girls' High School. 

San Jose — High School. 
Colorado: 

Boulder— State Preparatory School. 

Denver— East Side High School. 



District of Columbia: 
Washington- 
Central High School. 
Eastern High School. 
M Street High School. 
National Cathedral School for Girls. 
Western High School. 
Georgia: 

Athens — Lucy Cobb Institute. 
Atlanta — Washington Seminary. 
Columbus— High School. 
Illinois: 

Alton— High School. 
Champaign— High School. 



1 For classical course. 



'For Latin-scientific course. 



LISTS OF CERTAIN PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 



101 



Illinois— Continued. 
Chicago — 

Calumet High School. 
The Faulkner School. 
Hyde Park High School. 
Lake View High School. 
Marshall High School. 
Parker High School. 
University High School. 
University School for Girls. 
Chicago Heights— High School (Township). 
'Elgin— Academy. 
Evanston— 
Academy. 

High School (Township). 
Freeporl — High School. 
Galesburg— High School. 
Godfrey — Monticello Seminary. 
Hinsdale — High School. 
Jacksonville — Whipple Academy. 
La Grange— High School (Township). 
Lake Forest— Ferry Hall. 
Mount Carroll — Frances Shimer School. 
Oak Park— High School (Township). 
FeoTia— Bradley Polytechnic Institute. 
Waiikegan— High School (Township). 
Winnetka— jT/ic Girton School. 
Indiana: 

CrawfordsviUe — High School. 
Indianapolis — Shortridge High School. 
La Porte— High School. 
Princeton — High School. 
Iowa: 

Alton— High School. 
Des Moines — North High School. 
Maquoketa — High School. 
Kansas: 

Kansas City— High School. 
Wichita— High School. 
Kentucky : 

Danville — Kentucky College for Women. 
Henderson— Barret Manual Training High 

School. 
l^exiiv^ton— Hamilton (Junior) College for 

Women. 
Louisville — Girls' High School. 
Maryland. 

Baltimore — 

Girls' Latin School. 
Western High School. 
Catonsville — St. Timothy's School. 
Frederick — Women's College, Preparatory De- 
partment. 
Michigan: 
Detroit- 
Central High School. 
Eastern Hi^h School. 
Liggett School. 
Grand Rapids— Central High School. 
Houghton— High School. 
Jackson — High School. 
Muskegon — High School. 
Minnesota: 

Bemidji— High School. 
Duluth— Central High School. 



Minnesota — Continued. 

Minneapolis — 

Central High School. 
Stanley Hall. 

Willmar— High School. 

Winona— High School. 
Missouri: 

Carthage — High School. 

St. Ivouis— Central High School. 
Montana: 

Butte— High School. 
Nebraska: 

Omaha — High School. 
New Jersey: 

Asbury Park— High School. 

Bayonne— High School. 

BernardsvUle — High School. 

Blairstown— BZair Academy. 

Bloorafleld— High School. 

Bridge ton — 
High School. 
Ivy Hall. 

Burlington— S^. Mary's Hall. 

Butler— High School. 

Cape May City— High School. 

Cranford — High School. 

Dover— High School. 

East Orange — High School. 

Elizabeth— Battin High School. 

Englewood -High School. 

Flemington — High School. 

Glen Ridge— High School. 

Gloucester City — High School. 

Hackensack — High School. 

Hackettstown — Centenary Collegiate Institute. 

Hamburg — Ha'^dyston High School. 

Jersey City— Dickinson High School. 

Lalcewood — School for Girls. 

Lambertville — High School. 

Matawan — High School. 

MillvUle— High School. 

Montclair — High School. 

Morristown — High School. 

Newark — Barringer High School. 

New Brunswick — The Misses Anable's School. 

Nutley— High School. 

Park Ridge— High School. 

Passaic— High School. 

Paterson— 

High School. 
Hoover School. 

Plainiield— 

High School. 

North Plainfield High School. 

Red Bank — Shrewsbury Academy. 

Ridgewood — High School. 

Rockaway — High School. 

Roselle Park— High School. 

Rutherford— High School. 

South Orange — Columbia High School. 

Summit — High School. 

Trenton— State Model High School. 

Westfleld— High School. 

West Orange — High School. 

Wildwood— High School. 



102 



ACCREDITED SECONDAEY SCHOOLS. 



New York: 

Akron— High School. 
Albany — 

Academy for Girls. 

High School. 
Albion— High School. 
Almond — High School. 
Amsterdam — High School. 
Attica— High School. 
Auburn — Academic High School. 
Aurora — Wallcourt. 
Binghamton— iad!/ Jane Grey School. 
Boonville — High School. 
BTonxville—Brantwood Hall. 
Brooklyn — 

Brooklyn Heights Seminary. 

Erasumus Hall High School. 

Girls' High School. 

Manual Training High School. 

Packer Collegiate Institute. 
BufEalo— 

Buffalo Seminary. 

Lafayette High School. 

Hasten Park High School. 
Camden— High School. 
Canajoharie— High School. 
Camel — Drew Seminary. 
Catskill— High School. 
Cazenovia — Cazcnovia Seminary. 
Cohoes— Egberts High School. 
DansvlUe — High School. 
Delevan— High School. 
East Hampton— High School. 
Fairport- High School. 
Flushing— High School. 
Forestville — High School. 
Fredonia- State Normal School. 
Geneva— High School. 
Glenns Falls— High School. 
Gloversville— High School. 
Goshen— High School. 
Gouvemeur— High School. 
Greenwich— High School. 
Hamilton — High School. 
Hancock— High School. 
Hornell— High School. 
Hudson— High School. 
Ithaca— High School. 
Jamaica — High School. 
Jamestown — High School. 
Kingston — Kingston Academy. 
Locust Valley— Friends' Academy. 
LowviUe — Lowville Academy. 
Mechanicsville— High School. 
Mexico — Academy and High School. 
Middletown— High School. 
Mount Kisco — High School. 
Mount Vernon— High School. 
New Brighton— Curtis High School. 
Newburgh— Free Academy. 
New Hartford— High School. 
New Paltz— High School. 
Newport— High School. 
New Rochelle— High School. 
New York — 

Barnard School for Girls. 

Wadleigh High School. 

Washington Irving High School. 



New York — Continued. 
Norwich— High School. 
Oneonta— High School. 
Oxford— Academy. 
Patchogue— High School 
Pittsford- High School. 
Poughkeepsie — 
High School. 
Putnam Hall School. 
Randolph— High School. 
Rensselaer— High School. 
Richmond Hill— High School. 
Rochester — 

East High School. 

West High School. 
Rockville Centre— South Side High School. 
Rye — Seminary. 

Sag Harbor— Pierson High School. 
St. Johnsville— High School. 
Saratoga Springs— High School. 
Schenectady— High School. 
Schuylerville— High School. 
Sherburne- High School. 
Skaneateles— High School. 
Springville— G)(i^<ft Institute. 
Suffem- High School. 
Syracuse— Central High School. 
Tarrytown- 

Washington Irving High School. 
The Knox School. 
Troy- 
Emma WilJard School. 

High School. 
Utica — Free Academy. 
Walton— High School. 
Waterville— High School. 
Watkins— High School. 
White Plains— High School. 
Woodhull— High School and Academy. 
Yonkers— High School. 
Ohio: 

Akron — Buchtel Academy. 
Ashland — High School. 
Canton— High School. 
Cincinnati — 

Madison ville High School. 

Oakhurst Collegiate Institute. 
Cleveland — 

East High School. 

GlenviUe High School. 
Columbus— North High School. 
Coshocton — High School. 
Delaware — High School. 
East Cleveland— Shaw High School. 
Glendale — College. 
Lima— High School. 
Medina — High School. 
Oberlin — A cademy. 
St. Marys— High School. 
Salem — High School. 
Toledo- 
Central High School. 

Jesup W. Scott High School. 

Smead School. 
Waynesville — High School. 
Wyoming — High School. 
Youngstown — 

Ray en School. 

South High School. 



LISTS OF CEETAIN PEIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 



103 



Oklahoma: 

McAlester — High School. 
Pennsylvania: 
AUentown — 

The College for Women. 

Frances Steitler School. 
Altoona — High School. 
Beaver — High School. 
Beaver Falls — High School. 
Bellefonte— High School. 
Bellevue — High School. 
Bethlehem — Moravian Parochial School. 
Birmingham — School for Girls. 
Bradford— High School. 
Chambersburg — Penn Hall. 
Chester — High School. 
Clearfield— High School. 
Coudersport— High School. 
Crafton Station— Craf ton High School. 
Danville — High School. 
Easton — High School. 
Erie — High School. 
Greensburg — High School. 
Harrisburg— Central High School. 
Holidaysburg — Miss Cowles's School for Girls. 
Kingston — Wyoming Seminary. 
Lansdowne — High School. 
Lebanon — High School. 
Lewistown — Preparatory School. 
Oil City— High School. 
Overbrook — Miss Sayu'ard's School. 
Oxford— High School. 
Pennsburg — Perkiomen Seminary. 
Philadelphia — 

Friends' Central School. 

Friends' Select School. 

Oermantown Friends' School. 

High School for Girls. 

Ifiss Hill's School for Girls. 

Philadelphia Collegiate Institute. 

(Germantown) Walnut Lane School. 

William Penn High School. 
Pittsburgh- 
Allegheny High School. 

Dilworth Hall. 

Thurston Preparatory School. 

The Winchester School. 



Pennsylvania — Continued. 

PottsviUe— High School. 

Reading — High School for Girls. 

Ridgway — Boro High School. 

Scranton— Central High School. 

Sewickley — High School. 

Sharon — High School. 

Washington — Seminary. 

Wayne — Radnor High School. 

Wellsboro— High School. 

West Chester— 

Darlington Seminary. 

High School. 

State Normal School. 

WesttowTi — Boarding School. 

Wilkes-Barre — High School. 

Wilkinsburg — High School. 

Williamsport — High School. 
South Dakota: 

Sioux Falls — All Saints School. 
Tennessee: 

Chattanooga — Girls' Preparatory School. 
Texas: 

San Antonio — High School. 

Weatherford — Texas Fairemont Seminary. 
Virginia: 

Beuna Vista — Southern Seminary. 

Roanoke — Virginia College. 

Staunton— J/ary Baldwin Seminary. 
Washington: 

Olympia — High School. 

Seattle — Broadway High School. 

Spokane — Levs^is and Clark High School, 

Tacoma — High School. 
Wisconsin: 

Eau Claire — High School. 

Grand Rapids — High School. 

Kenosha — Kemper Hall. 

La Crosse — High School. 

Milwaukee — 

East Division High School. 
Milwaukee-Downer Seminary. 
West Division High School. 
Wausau — High School. 



Schools Sending Students to Wellesley College on Certificate in September, 

1914. 



"I have included in this list some schools from which students were accepted only on a partial certifi- 
cate, that is to say, these students supplemented their credentials from a given school with certificates 
from another school or with entrance examinations."— Letter from secretary to the board of admission, 
November 20, 1914. 

Units. 

Admission requirements 15 

Prescribed units: 

English 3 

Mathematics 3 

History 1 

Latin 4 

Electives 4 



California: 

Palo Alto — Castilleja School. 

Piedmont— J/m Ransom's and Miss Bridges's 

School. 
San Francisco — Miss Murison's School. 



Colorado: 

Denver— ATiss V,'olcott's School. 
Connecticut: 

Clinton— jl/or^an School. 

Danbury— High School. 



104 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Connecticut — Continued . 
Greenwich — 

E^ School. 

High School. 
Hartford— High School. 
Middlebury — Westover School. 
Middletown — High School. 
New Britain— High School. 
Norwich— Free Academy. 
Stamford— Tfte Catherine Aiken School. 
Westport— Staples High School. 
Winsted — Gilbert School. 
Plstrict of Columbia: 
Washington— 

Madeira School for Girls. 

National Cathedral School for Girls. 

Western High School. 
Georgia: 

Atlanta — Washington Seminary. 
Columbus— High School. 
Idaho: 

Boise — High School. 
Idaho Falls— High School. 
Illinois: 
Chicago— 

Latin School. 

Lakeview High School. 

Stickney School. 

University High School. 
Evanston — 

Academy. 

High School. 
Godfrey — Monticello Seminary. 
La Grange— High School (Township). 
Mohne— High School. 
Mount Carroll — Frances Shimer School. 
Oak Park— High School (Township). 
Peoria— High School. 
Rockford— High School. 
Bock Island— High School. 
Winnetka — 

Girton School. 

High School (Township). 
Indiana: 

Crawfordsville — High School. 
Fort Wayne— High School. 
Indianapolis — Tudor Hall School for Girls. 
Rockville— High School. 
Iowa: 

Burlington— High School. 
Des Moines — 

North High School. 

West High School. 
Dubuque— High School. 
Kansas: 

Topeka— 

College of Sisters of Bethany. 
Washburn College. 
Kentucky: 

Louisville — Semple Collegiate Institute. 
Shelbyville— Science Hall. 
Maine: 

Bangor— High School. 
Brunswick— High School. 
Cherryfield— ^ cademy. 
Farmington— High School. 



Maine — Continued. 
Portland- 
High School. 

Waynflete School. 
Westbrook— High School. 
York— High School. 
Maryland: 

Baltimore — Girls' Latin School. 
Massachusetts: 

Abington— High School. 
Adams— High School. 
Amherst— High School. 
Andover — Abbot Academy. 
Arlington— High School. 
Ashburnham — Gushing Academy. 
Boston- 
Brighton High School. 

Curtis-Peabody School. 

Dorchester High School . 

Elm Hill School. 

Girls' Latin School. 

Miss Guild's and Miss Evans's School. 

The von Mach School for Girls. 

Roxbury High School. 

West Roxbury High School. 
Bradford — Academy. 
Brookline— High School. 
Cambridge — High and Latin School. 
Dan vers — Hoi ton High School. 
East Northiield — Northfield Seminary. 
Fall River— B. M. C. Durfee High School. 
Fitchburg— High School. 
Foxboro — High School. 
Gloucester— High School. 
Greenfield — High School. 
Haverhill— High School. 
Holden — High School. 
Holyoke— High School. 
Lenox— High School. 
Lexington — High School. 
Lowell — High School. 
Lynn — Classical High School. 
Mansfield— High School. 
Marblehead — High School. 
Milford— High School. 
Natick— 

High School. 

Walnut Hill School for Girls. 
New Bedford— High School. 
Newton — Mount Ida School for Girls. 
Newtonville — Classical High School. 
Northampton^ 

Miss Capen's Schoolfor Girls. 
■ The Mary A. Burnham Schoolfor Girls. 
North Andover— Johnson High School. 
Norwood— High School. 
Salem — Classical High School. 
Scituate— High School. 
Somerville — High School. 
South Hadley— High School. 
Springfield — 

Central High School. 
The Elms. 
Swampscott — High School. 
Wakefield— High School. 
Ware— High School. 



LISTS OF CERTAIN PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS. 



105 



Massachusetts— Con tinued . 
Wareham— High School. 
Warren— High School. 
Wellesley— 
Dana Hall. 
High School. 
Westfleld— High School. 
Winchester— High School. 
Wollaston— Qwmcj/ Mansion. 
Worcester — 

Classical High School. 
South High School. 
Michigan: 

Detroit— Central High School. 
Grand Haven— ^teZey Hall. 
Houghton— High School. 
Jackson— High School. 
Minnesota: 

Faribault— 5*. Mary's Hall. 
Minneapolis — 

Central High School. 
Graham Hall. 
Stanley Hall. 
West High School. 
St. Paul— 
Oak Hall. 

Miss Loomis' School. 
Missouri: 

St. Charles— Li ndenwood Academy. 
St. Louis — 

Hosmer Hall. 
Mary Institute. 
Soldan High School. 
Nebraska: 
Omaha— 

Broionell Hall. 
Central High School. 
New Hampshire: 

Concord— S^ Mary's School. 
Manchester— High School. 
Nashua— High School. 
Portsmou*^h— High School. 
Rochester— High School. 
WoUehoTO— Brewster Free Academy. 
New Jersey: 

Asbury Park— High School. 
Bloomfield— High School. 
Cranford— High School. 
Elizabeth—Battin High School. 
^nglewood—Div ight School. 
Hackettstown— Centenary Collegiate Institute. 
Jersey Citj'— Dickinson High School. 
Madison— High School. 
Milbum— High School. 
Montclair— High School. 
Morristown— High School. 
Mount Holly— High School. 
Newton— High School. 
Passaic— High School. 
Plainfleld— High School. 
Ridgewood— High School. 
Rutherford— High School. 
South Orange— High School. 
Sumimt—Kent Place School/or Girls. 
West Orange— High School. 



New York: 
Albany — 
Academy. 
High School. 
St. Agnes School. 
State Normal College. 
Auburn— Academic High School. 
Binghamton— High School. 
Boonville— High School. 
Brooklyn- 

A delphi Academy. 
Erasmus Hall High School. 
Girls' High School. 
Packer Collegiate Institute. 
Buffalo- 
Central High School. 
Lafayette High School. 
Cambridge— High School. 
Chateaugay— High School. 
Glen Cove— High School. 
Gloversville— High School. 
Huntington— Union School. 
Islip— High School. 
Jamestown— High School. 
Kingston— Free Academy. 
Mamaroneck— Rye Neck High School. 
Middletown— High School. 
Mount Vernon— High School. 
Oneida— High School. 
Pahnyra— Classical High School. 
Plattsburg— High School. 
Rensselaer— High School. 
Richmond Hill— High School. 
Rochester — 

Columbia Preparatory School. 
East High School. 
West High School. 
Rye — Seminary. 
Schenectady— High School. 
Scarsdale—Lockwood Collegiate School. 
Utica — Free Academy. 
Yonkers— High School. 
Ohio: 

Canton— High School. 
Cincinnati — 

Madison ville High School. 
Oakhurst Collegiate School. 
University School. 
Walnut Hills High School. 
Cleveland— Central High School. 
Columbus — 

Collegiate School for Girh. 
North High School. 
East Cleveland— Shaw High School. 
Medina— High School. 
Niles— High School. 
Oherlin— Academy. 
Sandusky— High School. 
Toledo— Scott High School. 
Urbana- High School. 
Xenia— Central High School. 
Youngstown— i?o!/cn School. 
Oregon: 

Portland— Lincoln High School. 



106 



ACCREDITED SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 



Pennsylvania: 

Beaver Falls — High School. 
Bellefonte— High School. 
Bethlehem — Moravian Parochial School. 
Bradford— High School. 
Bryn Mawr — 

Baldwin School. 

Miss Wright's School. 
Canton— High School. 
Carbondale— High School. 
Du Bois— High School. 
Easton— High School. 
Franklin— High School. 
George School— Gfor^e School. 
Harrisburg— High School. 
Huntingdon — Juniata Academy. 
Indiana — State Normal School. 
Kingston — Wyoming Seminary. 
McKeesport— High School. 
Pennsburg — Perkiomen Seminary. 
Philadelphia— 

Friends' Central School. 

Friends' Select School. 

Girls' High School. 

Miss Hill's School. 

(German town) Walnut Lane School. 

William Penn High School. 
Pittsburgh— 

Thurston Preparatory School. 

Winchester School. 
Pottsville— High School. 
Reading— Girls' High School. 
Ridgway— High School. 
Scranton— Central High School. 
Washington — Seminary. 
West Chester — Darlington Seminary. 
Westtown— Boarding School. 
Wilkes-Barre— 

High School. 

Institute. 



Pennsylvania — Continued. 

Wilkinsburg- High School. 
Rhode Island: 

Pawtucket— High School. 

Providence — 

Hope Street High School. 
Moses Brown School. 

Woonsocket — High School. 
Tennessee: 

Chattanooga — Girls Preparatory School. 

Nashville — Ward-Belmont Seminary. 
Vermont: 

Bane— Spaulding High School. 

Burlington — High School. 

Claremont — Stevens High School. 

Fair Haven — High School. 

Ludlow — Black River Academy. 

Rutland — High School. 

St. Johnsbury — Academy. 
Washington: 

North Yakima — High School. 

Seattle — 

Broadway High School. 
Franklin High School. 

Spokane — Lewis and Clark High School. 

Tacoma — Annie Wright Seminary. 

Walla Walla— S< Paul's School. 
West Virginia: 

Elkins— High School. 

Huntington — High School. 
Wisconsin: 

Ashland— High School. 

Beaver Dam — Wayland Academy. 

La Crosse — High School. 

Milwaukee — 

Milwaukee-Downer Seminary. 
West High School. 

Waupum— High School. 



Private Secondary Schools in Maryland and Pennsylvania (not Listed 
Elsewhere in the Bulletin) Belonging to the Association of Colleges and 
Preparatory Schools of the Middle States and Maryland and having the 
Privilege of Certificating their Graduates to Various Colleges of High 
Standing. 



Maryland: 

Baltimore— 

Arundell School. 
Bryn Mawr School. 
Pennsylvania: 

Lancaster— Sftippcn School 



Pennsylvania — Continued. 
Philadelphia — 

The Agnes Irwin School. 

Holman School for Girls. 

Maher Preparatory School. 
Swarthmore — Swarthmore Preparatory School. 
Y oik— Collegiate Institute. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note.— With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Wasliington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed theHouse of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
fNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmann. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

fNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

fNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maeimel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

*No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
*No. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
*No. 3. Daily meals of school cliildren. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thorndike. 
No. S. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1907. 
*No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
*No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

*No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

*No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the pulilic schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1S67-1910. 
*No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 50 cts. 
*No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 cts. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 

I 



II BULLETIN OF THE BUKEAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. S cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 

No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 1908-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
■*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. Harlan Updegrafl. 20 cts. 

No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State. 1910-11. 

1912. 
*No. 1. Acourseofstudy forthepreparationofrural-schoolteachers. F. Mutchler and W. J. Craig. 5cts. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegrafl. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 

*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. Sets. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12. 10 cts.] 
*No. 9. Country schools for city ))oys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kllpatrick. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics, No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
*No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
*No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. 5 cts. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the commimity. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegraff and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 

*No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. G. Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics, No. III. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-1911. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
*No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and C. Goldziher. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
*No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 5 cts. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
*No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 
*No. 3. The teaching of modern languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 
*No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OP EDUCATION. m 

*No. 6. Agricultural instruction ia high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenks. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

tNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

tNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

tNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efficiency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

*No. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bil)liography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

*No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
*No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational pulilications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States. Georg Kerschensteiner. 

5 cts. 
♦No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
tNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

♦No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
♦No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
♦No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
♦No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational sun'ey of Montgomery County, Md. 

tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
♦No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
♦No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
♦No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
♦No. 38. Econorny of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. HaUmann. 
♦No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
♦No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
♦No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
♦No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
♦No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

♦No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
♦No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Teimessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and A. Phillips. 

No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCaim. 
♦No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
♦No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, Oct. 1, 1909, to Oct. 1, 1912. James C. 

Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 
♦No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 15 cts. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

♦No. 1. Monthly record of current educational puldications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
♦No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, Feliruary, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfield. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. E. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications. May, 1914. 
*No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
*No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 50 cts. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 

No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monabem. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. I. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home— Part I. General statement. Benjamin R. Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part II. State action, schools, agencies. Benjamin R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Colleges and universities. Benjamin R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. Benjamin "R. Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Mouahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural-school teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 

No. 4. The health of school children. W. H. Heck. 

No. 5. Organization of State departments of education. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 6. A study of colleges and high schools. 

No. 7. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Samuel P. Capen. 

No. 8. Present status of the honor system in colleges and universities. Bird T. Baldwin. 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 8 WHOLE NUMBER 632 



PRESENT STATUS OF THE HONOR 

SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND 

UNIVERSITIES 



By BIRD T. BALDWIN 

PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION 
SWARTHMORE COLLEGE 

assisted by 

HENRY L. MESSNER and GRACE W, GREENE 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFHCE 

195 5 



ADDITIONAL COPlTJe 

OF THIS PUBLICAnON MAT BK PR0CUKJ5D FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

"WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

j CENTS A COrV 



CONTENTS. 



Prtge 

Foreword 5 

History 7 

The investigation 8 

Methods of electing or appointing student councils 11 

Final jurisdiction and penaltiee. . 11 

Faculty supervision _ 11 

Violations 11 

General aim and iDurposee of the honor system 12 

Institutions using an honor system in all departments 13 

Institutions just adopting an honor system. 14 

Institutions planning to adopt the honor system 15 

Institutions having an honor system in vogue in spirit, but not in organization . 15 

Institutions favoring the honor system, but which do not have it !7 

Institutions in which the sentiment is not sufficientiy mature 17 

Institutions in which pecuUar conditi'ons militate against adopting the honor 

system 18 

Institutions that have not felt the need of the honor system 19 

Institutions that frankly oppose the honor system 20 

Institutions in which the honor system has failed 21 

Institutions which reply negatively, without comment 22 

Conclusions 22 

Tabular summary as to the use of the honor system 24 

Appendix 27 

A. Type constitutions 27 

Princeton University . 27 

Cornell University 28 

iJ. Type pledges , - 30 

n. Membership of type administration conneils ;;0 

3 



FOREWORD. 

The aim of this bulletin is to set forth the present status of a phase^ 
of college and university administration that enlists the cooperation 
of students for the maintenance of fair play and honesty in the 
preparation and performance of classroom activities. A personal 
letter, with 11 questions appended, was submitted early in 1913 to 
475 American colleges and universities; 425 of these institutions 
responded with detailed answers and with such available literature 
as was at hand.^ 

The term "honor system" is used to connote the formal recogni- 
tion and adoption by students and faculty of a system of mutual 
responsibility among students for honest scholastic work. In several 
institutions student government is included under the general term 
"honor system" ; in other institutions, especially the larger universi- 
ties, the honor system is independent of any form of student govern- 
ment; in others, particularly the smaller colleges, it is the natural 
outgrowth of the participation of students in the direction and con- 
trol of their various collegiate activities. 

' All replies have been carefully indexed and placed in the archives of the Swarthmore College library, 
where they are accessible for verification or for future study . 

5 



PRESENT STATUS OF THE HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND 

UNIVERSITIES. 



HISTORY. 



There is considerable disagreement among the claimants for 
the credit of having mitiated the first well-defined honor system 
in an educational mstitution of higher learning in this comitry. 
The University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va., has almost uni- 
versally been credited with being the originator. An excerpt from 
the faculty minutes of May 4, 1842, is as foUows: 

On motion of Judge Tucker, 

Resolved, That in all future examinations for distinction and other honors of the 
university each candidate shall attach to the written answers presented by him on 
such examination a certificate in the following words: "I, A. B., do hereby certify on 
honor that I have derived no assistance during the time of this examination whether 
oral, written, or in piint, in giving the above answers." 

This excerpt is undoubtedly authentic and definitely fixes the 
date for the formal adoption of the organized system as far as the 
University of Virginia is concerned. 

Claims have also been put forward for the University of South 
Carolma. or South Carolina College, as it was formerl}^ called. Dr. 
Fhnn, chaplain of the institution, stated that there had been an 
informal honor system in vogue from the begmnmg of South Carolina 
College. He based his assertion primarily, according to Prof. W. 
Le Conte, of Washington and Lee University, "on a by-law formu- 
lated by the trustees of the college," previous to 1805, which reads: 

The sense of decency, propriety, and right, which every honorable young man 
carries in his bosom, shall be taken as a suflBcient means of knowing these things, and 
he who pleads ignorance in such matters is imfit to be a member of the college. 

This is not definite, nor is it indicative of an organized system of 
control. The authorities do not claim that the honor system was 
ever formally adopted at South Carolina College. They state: 

The system is here traditional from the beginning. It means simply that here 
professors and students are gentlemen in all their relations. The system has been in 
vogue ever since the college was founded in 1801. 

This, however, is not the institution that now claims the credit 
for initiating the honor system. President Lyon G. Tyler clahns that 
it started with the College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va., 

7 



8 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVEESITIES. 

in 1779. Speaking of the University of Virginia, he writes in a per- 
sonal letter: 

I think the evidence overwhelmingly demonstrates that the honor system had its 
origin in its application to examinations at William and Mary. It seems to me absurd 
to say that the University of Virginia deserves the credit of its organization when it 
had been recognized here long before the university existed. It was introduced at 
the university by William and Mary graduates, of whom the first board of visitors of 
the university was almost entirely composed. It was not formally recognized at the 
\miversity until 1842, when Henry St. George Tucker offered a resolution in regard to 
its application to examinations, but Tucker himself was a student and graduate of 
this college, and got his ideas from this institution. 

In another letter President Tyler says: 

It must be remembered that Mr. Jefferson and the large majority of the board of 
visitors of the University of Virginia were William and Mary alumni, and, therefore, 
were familiar with the system at William and Mary. Henry St. George Tucker was a 
brother of Judge Nathaniel Beverly Tucker, and both were educated at the college, 
and their father, Judge St. George Tucker, was a professor of law imtil 1804, when he 
resigned . 

He also adds: 

I know that the University of Virginia claims the system's beginning, but while 
she was a noble practicer, she was not the beginner. Long before the university 
was established, it was practiced here and at other southern colleges. 

So far as our data show, South Carolina College and William and 
Mary are the only institutions which practiced the honor system in 
or prior to 1842. While the appeal to the honor of the student may 
have been and no doubt was made in these and other colleges in 
this country, the University of Virginia was the first to inaugurate a 
definite system of control, legislation, and form of penalties. The 
honor system was apparently long in vogue in spirit before 1842, 
but at this time it was formally inaugurated at the University of 
Virginia. There are at present 123 institutions in which it is in 
actual practice. Of these, 45, or 37 per cent, are situated east of 
the Mississippi and south of Mason and Dixon's line; 5, or 4 per cent, 
are in New England; 35, or 28 per cent, are for men only; 8, or 6.5 
per cent, are for women; and 80, or 65.5 per cent, are coeducational. 
Of these institutions, 101 have the honor system in aU departments, 
22 have it in some departments only. In addition to the 123 insti- 
tutions included, 44 others claim to have the system in spirit but 
not in form, and 31 are considering its adoption in the near future. 

THE INVESTIGATION. 

METHOD AND DATA. 

In order to get first-hand information on the practice of the honor 
system in one form or another in our American institutions of higher 
learning, the following letter with the appended 11 questions was 
sent to the presidents: 



HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVEESITIES. 9 

My Dear President : In cooperation with the Department of Edu- 
cation,' I am making a comprehensive study of the present status of the honor system 
■in all the colleges and universities of this country. A report of this study, which is to 
be completed before June, will be published, and a copy will be sent to each 
iastitution fiu-nishing data. 

If the honor system exists in your institution, will you kindly express your opinion 
as to its efficiency and its desirability and also what you tliink of its future. 

Any available literature that you may have on the subject will be of great help. 

As far as possible, will you please answer briefly the following questions? 

Thanking you for any aid that you may be able to give us, I am. 
Very sincerely, yours, 



1. Does the honor system exist for all or for a few departments in your institution? 

2. Did the initiative for its adoption come from the faculty or from the students? 

3. How long has the system been in vogue? Is it nominal or real? Growing in 
favor or not? 

4. Does there exist, as a basis for its operation, a strong sentiment in its favor? 

5. Does the operation of the system involve the signing of a pledge neither to give 
nor to receive aid? Does the pledge involve the obligation to report any infraction 
of the rules, especially as to examinations and reports? 

6. Besides the work in examinations and reports, does the system cover any other 
activity in college life, such as student conduct or athletics? 

7. What committee or council acts on cases arising? Is this composed of students, 
of members of the faculty, or of both? 

8. Are the members of the committees elected directly, or is the committee member- 
ship made up of certain class officers, captains of athletic teams, etc.? 

9. Has the student committee final jurisdiction, or does the appeal from action of 
this committee and veto lie in a faculty committee or the college president? 

10. To what extent do the members of the faculty have confidence in the honor of 
the students to live up to the system? Is the instructor present during examination? 

11. How often have cases of violation of the rules or spirit of the system occurred? 

In additioD. to the answers to these questions a large nmiiber of 
personal lettei-s were received with printed matter, including consti- 
tutions, by-laws, pledges, reports, etc. As this appears to be the 
first exhaustive inductive study in this field, the contents of the bul- 
letin will deal exclusively with the data at hand. 

SCOPE. 

Departments included. — It has been noted on page 24 that 123 in- 
stitutions now practice the honor s^'stem in all or a few departments. 
In the Universities of Virginia, Texas, and California; in Princeton 
University; and in other institutions the honor system is in vogue 
in all departments and in all schools. In Cornell University, Ithaca, 
N. Y., it exists in the colleges of civil engineering, agriculture, and 
law; in George Washington University, Washington, D. C, and 
Leland Stanford Junior University, California, in the department of 
law; in the Univei-si tics of Cincinnati, Ohio, and Louisville, Ky., and in 
Susquehanna University, SeHnsgrove, Pa., in the college of liberal arts; 

' I. e., of Swarthmore College. 
75126°— 15 2 



10 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 

in Syracuse University, New York, in teachers' college ; in the Univer- 
sity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., in the departments of medicine 
and surgery; in the University of Pennsylvania, in the Wharton 
school and the school of architecture; in Washington University, St. 
Louis, Mo., in the college and schools of mines, engineering, and 
chemistry; in Park College, Parkville, Mo., it is limited to juniors, 
and in several other colleges to seniors. In a number of institutions 
it is in vogue in a few or several departments, and is sometimes left 
to the discretion of the professors. In the University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln, Nebr., a few organizations agreed to try it out for their own 
members, and at the University of Rochester, New York, the men 
are under the honor system, but the women are not. 

Activities included. — In Princeton the honor system is limited to 
examinations, but extends to all departments and is entirely under 
student jurisdiction. In Barnard CoUege, New York City, it applies 
to examinations, quizzes, and all written reports; in Beloit College, 
Beloit, Wis., to written tests and reserve books in the library; in 
Williams College, Williamstown, Mass., to all written exercises; in 
the University of South Carolina, to conduct ; in Denison University, 
Granville, Ohio, to interlinears and "ponies;" in Virginia Military 
Institute, Lexington, Va., to daUy preparation of recitations; in 
William and Mary College, Virginia, to moral conduct; in Wofford 
College, Spartanburg, S. C, to failure to pay debts, to hazing, and 
sub rosa fraternities; in Wilson College, Chambersbur'g, Pa., to all 
rules made by student government association. In the University 
of Mississippi, "lying, stealing, gambling, drunkenness, or drinking 
in public places are dealt with by the council and pimished by demerit, 
suspension, or dismissal." 

Relation to student government. — Student government is a term used 
to indicate that the habits, privileges, and conduct of the students in all 
activities outside the classroom are regulated and controlled through 
an executive council elected by the student body; in other words, 
the administration of the college, as far as student activities are con- 
cerned, is in the hands of the students. 

In adopting the honor system, students go a step further than mere 
student activities and make themselves responsible for classroom 
conduct, formerly entirely mider the jurisdiction of the faculty. It 
is for this reason that, although the honor system is in reality a sub- 
division of student government, it is ordinarily dignified by a sepa- 
rate constitution and frequently by a separate coimcil or executive 
committee. 

Usually the honor system is an indication of a highly developed 
form of student government, but in some cases it exists without a 
student government; in such an event it is usually inaugurated by 
the faculty under careful supervision. 



HONOB SYSTEM IN C0LLBOB8 AND UNIVERSITIES. 11 

METHODS OF ELECTING OR APPOINTING STUDENT COUNCILS. 

The administrative council is commonly assembled in three ways; 
by election, by appointments made by the president of the college 
or the president of the student body; and by automatic choice — that is, 
a student becomes a member of the honor council because he is a 
member of some other organization. Of the colleges having the sys- 
tem, 116 replied to this question. In 63 cases the council is elected, 
in 18 cases it is appointed, and in 14 chosen. Of the remaining insti- 
tutions, 12 report that part are elected and part chosen automatically; 
5 that part are elected and part appointed; and 4 that part are ap- 
pointed and part automatically chosen. 

FINAL JURISDICTION AND PENALTIES. 

Of the 116 colleges reporting on final jurisdiction in cases of viola- 
tion of the honor system, 81 report that final power hes in the faculty, 
12 that it Hes m the president, and 1 that it hes in the president and 
faculty. In aU but 22 cases, then, the last decision is taken out of the 
hands of the student council, although, as a rule, the recommendation 
of the council is taken by the higher authorities. In these 22 cases, 
however, a student violating the honor system may be punished, 
suspended, or expelled from college without other authority than that 
of the student council. 

FACULTY SUPERVISION. 

Sixty-four colleges and universities report that the instructor may 
be present or absent from the room, as he may choose. This gives the 
instructor an opportunity to answer questions and make the exami- 
nation quite clear. At 29 institutions the instructor is absolutely 
excluded from the room, while at 21 institutions he must be present 
throughout the examination. It is noticeable that this is the case 
where the faculty are largely in control of the system. 

VIOLATIONS. 

It is impossible to estimate the number of violations that have 
happened in each coUege since the adoption of the honor system. 
In most cases it is impossible to estimate even the average number of 
cases that come up per year, since no adequate records have been 
kept. The majority of colleges report that violations are "seldom" 
or "rare," and others that they occur two or three times a year. 
Only two large institutions have reported any considerable number 
of cases, the larger being on an average of 10 per year. 



12 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLBaEft AND UNTVBRSITIES. 

GENERAL AIM AND PURPOSES OF THE HONOR SYSTEM. 

The function and scope of the honor system are clearly set forth 
in the letters given below. The reply from Princeton University, 
Princeton, N. J., aside from its statement of the general plan, is a 
forceful argument in fnvor of the efficiency of the system. 

Dean Elliott writes: 

As a student under the system during the 4 years of my college course, as a mem- 
ber of the faculty for 12 yet-rs, and as dean of the college for 3 yeare, I have been brought 
into close touch with the system and believe in it with all my heart, and am sure 
that here it is a great success. 

In a subsequent letter from Princeton, Editor Gilbert F. Close 

states: 

You will see from the [following] description that the honor system at Princeton 
has been remarkably successful ever since its organization and has the cordial sup- 
port and entire confidence of the faculty, as of the student body. The honor system 
at Pidnceton is one of our institutions of which we are exceptionally proud. 

The system arose at Princeton in the only way in which it can with real vitality 
come into existence, namely, upon the initiative of the undergraduates themselves. 
It was first put into practice amongst us in the year 1894, and, being backed by a verj" 
sincere and solid body of opinion among the leading undergraduates, it was an unqual- 
ified success from the first. We have every reason to believe that it has secured 
absolute honesty in examination. 

The establishment of the system has had many consequences. In the first place, 
the faculty has naturally followed the rule that in case anyone applying for admission 
to the university is found to have cheated in the entrance examinations, he must not 
only be refused admission to the university, but must understand that it will never 
be possible for him to enter. More than that, the effect of the system upon the general 
undergraduate morals has been very marked and very gratifying. It has brought 
about a frank and candid relation in respect of all matters of behavior and honor as 
between the undergraduates and the authorities of the university which has made all 
dealings between them satisfactory. I do not know anything in the history of the 
university which has had more extensive or more gratifying results or which has been 
less open to criticism in its operation. 

Prof. Frank W. Nicolson, of Wesleyan llnivei-sity, Middle town, 

Conn., answered very fully. His answer to the question numbered 

11 is: 

I should say we have cases of violation of the rules on the average about once evejy 
three years. It seems to be the case that after a certain period has elapsed and a new 
generation of men have come to college, a certain laxity begins. Some one Adolates 
the honor system and is detected, when there is a general revival of interest in the 
system and more attention is paid to its provisions. Reporting by the students con- 
stitutes, of course, the crux of the situation, and unless they are willing to accept that 
obligation, the honor system will not succeed; nor will it succeed, I believe, if it is 
imposed upon the student body against their will or against the protest of any con- 
siderable minority. My judgment is, further, that it will succeed better in a small 
college than in a large college. As a graduate of Harvard I have expressed doubt to 
the authorities there, from time to time, whether such a system would succeed at 
Harvard . I have no hesitation in saying that it has succeeded splendidly at Wesleyan . 

Prof. Farnham P. Griffiths, of the University of California, Berke- 
ley, Cal., replies to question 5 as follows: 

I take it that you mean by the "honor system " some method to insure honesty in 
examinations. Our student self-government is far larger and more comprehensive 



HONOR SYSTEM IN C0LLE<.4BB AND UNIVERSITIES. IS 

in its scope. It means that the responsibility in matters of student discipline rest* 
with the students themselves. Incidentally and as a portion of a larger program, the 
question of honesty in examinations is, of course, involved. Oiir students do not sign 
any pledge. They take it in a measure to be an insult to ask a man to say that he has 
received no help in examinations. As a matter of fact, however, a student observing 
dLshonesty in a classroom would ordinarDy report the case to the undergraduate 
student affairs committee, who would then take evidence, hear witnesses, and recom- 
mend a penalty varying from deprivation of credit in the course to suspension from 
the university. An instructor observing a case of dishonesty would similarly report 
the circumstance to the undergraduate committee. 

The significance of the honor system is emphasized by Jesse H. 
Holmes, Ph. D., professor of philosophy in Swarthmore College, 
Swarthmore, Pa., in the following words: 

There are only two systems possible in dealing with examinations. These are the 
"honor" system and the "dishonor" system. A student does not cheat to himself 
alone. A cheating student dishonors his whole class and lowers the tone of the college. 
He cheapens the degree of every student who graduates from the college. In my 
judgment, it is the duty of the students of this college to see to it that no dishonest 
paper ever goes into the hands of an instructor. This does not mean that the student 
must tell the instructor of the dishonest work, but it does mean that he is to make it 
impossible for the dishonest student to receive credit for stolen work or to remai* 
permanently in the college. 

In a statement, recently, Ex-President Taft said that he approved 
of the honor system proposed for Yale, provided that a punishment 
is imposed for violations. He added: 

In effect it is a request that the immediate responsibility for the student's fairnesa 
in the examinations be transferred from the faculty to the class. I have not the slight- 
est objection to this, if the class as a whole takes the responsibility. This responsi- 
bility, however, should involve an obligation by the class as a whole to secure the 
fairness which ought to obtain. 

If, therefore, the class will stipulate, as the class does in the scientific school under 
its honor system, that unfair conduct by any member of the class in the examination, 
known to the other members of the class, shall be made the subject of investigation 
and trial by a class tribunal, with a report of the facts and a recommendation of a 
penalty, if any is deemed necessary, to the dean for conL&rmation and action, I strongly 
approve the change proposed; otherwise I do not. 

INSTITUTIONS USING AN HONOR SYSTEM IN ALL DEPARTMENTS. 

Letters were received from practically all the institutions written 
to, in addition to the rephes to the questionnaire. From these letters 
and replies the following selected excerpts are given. They produce 
strong evidence in favor of the honor system. 

The dean of Beloit College, Beloit, Wis., remarks: 

Though many feel that the honor system is not thoroughly adequate, yet I know ot" 
uo one in the faculty who would go back to the old proctor system of supervising 
examinations. 

Dean H. D. Campbell, of Washington and Lee University, Lexington, 
Va., in a detailed explanatory letter, states that the honor system is 



14 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 

satisfactory and he does not see how they could get along without it. 
At Barnard College, New York City, Dean Virginia C. Gildersleeve 
finds it growing in favor; at Smith College, Northampton, Mass., 
President Marion L. Burton states that students feel it obligatory to 
report, but they do not wish final jurisdiction at this time. Ex- 
President Francis P. Venable, of the University of North Carohna, 
Chapel Hill, N. C, maintains the sentiment in its favor is practically 
universal after 50 years of experience. The method amply justifies 
its existence at Randolph-Macon Woman's College, Lynchburg, Va., 
according to President William A. Webb. President, R. S. Hyer, of 
Southwestern University, Georgetown, Tex., regards it as the only 
agency that will prevent cheating in examinations. The State 
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky., has been greatly benefitted 
by the system according to President Henry S. Barker. 

President Alexander C. Humphreys, of Stevens Institute of Tech- 
nology, Hoboken, N. J., emphasizes the view that the honor system 
is successful, but it wiU not work itself; the president and a majority 
of the faculty must beheve in it; the students must give their un- 
qualified adherence to the system; and there must be hearty co- 
operation between students and faculty. Practically the same point 
of view is brought out by President Joseph Swain, of Swarthmore 
College, who says that the students must have a clear-cut conviction 
that it is their duty to be honest themselves and insist on honesty in 
others, and that the offenders must be treated kindly but justly. 
As an evidence of the success of the honor system, Ex-ChanceUor 
Andrew A. Kincannon, of the University of Mssissippi, University, 
Miss., says: "All students of lawless tendencies oppose it vigorously." 
Prof. Edward S. Joynes, of the University of South Carohna, who has 
frequently contributed articles to Tlie Nation in defense of the method 
of relying on student honor in class activities, writes that "the only 
true system for the education of a gentleman by gentlemen is the honor 
system — that is, the system of mutual respect and confidenee^" 

President Harry A. Garfield, Williams College, wiites : 

I beg to say that I have observed the working of the honor system both here and at 
Princeton, and I believe in the Bystem In principle and can testify to the efficiency 
with which it works in both places. 

INSTITUTIONS JUST ADOPTING AN HONOR SYSTEM. 

Among the large institutions that have recently initiated an honor 
system, the following are cited. Registrar F. S. Ball, of Johns 
Hopkins, Baltimore, Md., says: 

The authorities have always taken the ground that the only effectual way of securing 
honesty in examinations is through appeal to the honor of the students. They are 
given to understand that we aasume that they can be trusted. 



HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVEESITIES. 15 

Dean James R. Angell, January 12, 1914, wrote concerning the 
University of Chicago: 

The university lias not officially adopted this system. Tlie students have voted on. 
this matter and decided by a rather large majority to give the plan trial, under a 
somewhat peculiar form suggested to fit our local conditions. What the university 
authorities will decide I can not say. 

Among other institutions recently adopting the honor system may 
be noted the architectural and science departments of the University 
of Pemisylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., and the arts department at 
Columbia University, New York City. 

INSTITUTIONS PLANNING TO ADOPT THE HONOR SYSTEM. 

Among the prominent institutions that do not have the honor 
system (although most of them have some form of student council 
at present) are several which are planning to adopt it in the near 
future. This is true of De Pauw University, Greencastle, Ind. ; Grin- 
nell College, Grinnell, Iowa; Hamline University, St. Paul, Minn.; 
Rockford College, Rockford, 111, ; State University of Nevada, Reno, 
Nev.; University of North Dakota, University, N. Dak.; Univer 
sity of Oregon, Eugene, Oreg.; University of Pittsburgh, Pa.; and 
the University of South Dakota, Vermihon. 

As to the future pohcy of some other well-known institutions, the 
following excerpts indicate the trend of opinion: 

Ex-President Ethelbert D. Warfield,. of Lafayette College, Easton, 
Pa., writes: 

At the present time there is nothing in operation with regard to the honor system 
in this college. Several experiments in participation of students in carrying out the 
rules have been made, but they have gradually lapsed. 

W. W. Smith, of the University of Oregon, Eugene, Oreg,, states: 

We have not as yet established the honor system in the University of Oregon. The 
subject is at present being debated by the faculty, but to be of pennanent help we 
realize that the initiative must come from the student body. 

INSTITUTIONS HAVING AN HONOR SYSTEM IN VOGUE IN SPIRIT BUT 
NOT IN ORGANIZATION. 

In addition to those institutions that have the honor system or 
are considering its adoption, others may be said to have it in spirit 
if not in form. The following will indicate the drift of opinion: 

President Samuel Dickie, of Albion CoUege, Albion, Mich., says: 

Several years ago, upon my own suggestion, there was organized among the students 
a self-government association, membership in which was open to all the students. 
The entire student body acting by classes and departments select members of a small 
body known as the student senate. 



16 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES, 

In Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C, the student government 
association has general direction of the administration of the exami- 
nations. President Robert P. Pell says: 

We have an excellent system of student government, and all cases, short of those 
demanding expulsion, are handled by the board of managers constituting the student 
government judicial body. 

In Dickinson College, CarUsle, Pa., the class deans and fraternities 
have been enhsted to help solve the problem of examinations and 
wi-itten work. 

President Thomas McClelland, of Knox College, Galesburg, 111., 
writes that "for several years there has existed in Knox College 
a student council which has been found to be advantageous." 

Among the larger institutions that have the system in spirit is 
Bryn Mawr CoUege, Bryn Mawr, Pa. In a sense everything at Bryn 
Mawr is on the honor system; the students cooperate with the fac- 
ulty just as the faculty cooperates with the students in self-govern- 
ment. 

The secretaiy to the president at Mount Holyoke College, South 
Hadley, Mass., writes: 

Mount Holyoke has never adopted the honor system. The instructors are present 
during examinations, and cases of cheating either in examinations or in reports have 
been very rare. The students ai-e on their honor to report on the daily exercise 
requirement and also in the matter of registration for leaving town. The student 
government association has the oversight of chapel and chm-ch attendance. The 
etudents are placed upon their honor in the matter of reporting chmch attendance, 
but there are proctors who look after the chapel attendance. 

Dean Holgate, of Northwestern University, Evanston, lU., states 
that "fuU confidence exists between student and instructor, and 
examinations are conducted on that basis." 

President Le Baron R. Briggs, of RadcHffe College, Cambridge, 
Mass., repHes : ' ' Not in vogue in the usual sense. Of course, m themes 
students are put on their honor." 

President Carl Lee Mees, of Rose Polytechnic Institute, Terre 
Haute, Ind., reports: 

Inasmuch as we have no straight honor system, it will be rather difficult to answer the 
categorical questions as you ask them. We try to combine the honor system with a 
reasonable amount of stipervision, and though the results are not all we would wish, 
they are as satisfactory as any system so far used. 

Dean J. G. Eldridge, of the University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, 
writes that the "honor system exists not at all formally, though indi- 
vidual teachers often leave the conduct of examinations to the 
students." 

President John Cavanaugh, of the University of Notre Dame, Ind. : 

No action of the university as a whole. Honor system is left to individual professors. 
Cheating in examination is among the causes for expulsion. 



HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 17 

At the University of Southern Cahfornia, Los Angeles, Cal., Presi- 
dent George F. Bovard repHes: 

The University of Southern California has no regular honor system. However, the 
students are placed quite largely upon their honor in their general conduct and in 
their work. We have student committees and faculty committees who give special 
attention to the general conduct of the students, but we have no system worthy of 
being designated an honor system. 

The University of Washington, Seattle, Wash., reports that both 
faculty and students desu-e the honor system, but so far it has been 
tried only by a few departments. 

INSTITUTIONS FAVORING THE HONOR SYSTEM, BUT WHICH DO NOT 

HAVE IT. 

Among the institutions that do not have the honor system there 
are several whose rephes state, directly or indirectly, that they beheve 
it to be worth striving for, as opportunity permits. For example. 
Dean H. M. Raymond, of Armour Institute of Technology, Chicago, 
111., states: "We are hoping that such a system may be established in 
the near future." 

Chancellor Samuel Avery, of the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, 
Nebr., after calling attention to an effort on the part of some student 
organizations to have a system binding upon theh own members, 
concludes: "The faculty in this institution have always taken the 
attitude that the honor system would be welcomed whenever gen- 
eral student sentiment should make possible its enforcement." 

President Palmer C. Ricketts, of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 
Troy, N. Y., comments: "We do not have the honor system here. I 
am sorry we do not have it, and hope some time to see it estabhshed." 

President J. T. Kingsbury, of the University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, says: "The honor system is a problem that we have not yet 
undertaken to solve. I beheve that it would be a good tiling to try." 

INSTITUTIONS IN WHICH THE SENTIMENT IS NOT SUFFICIENTLY 

MATURE. 

Among those institutions that do not have the honor system^ a 
small group do not find the "time ripe for its adoption and appHca- 
tion." Dean Frank G. Wren, of Tufts CoUege, Tufts College, Mass., 
writes : 

As yet Tufts College has not adopted the honor system. It has seemed unwise to 
the faculty to consider the adoption of such a system until student sentiment is strongly 
in favor of it. As yet there is no evidence that such a sentiment exists. 

President George E. Vincent, of the University of Minnesota, Min- 
neapohs, Minn., says: 

The honor system has never been adopted in this university. There has been some 
agitation at various times for the introduction of this plan, but so far opinion has never 
crystallized in such a way as to justify the introduction of the policy. 

75126°— 15 3 



18 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 

President Ellen F. Pendleton, of Wellesley College, Wellesley, 

Mass., says: 

The subject of an honor system has been discussed by our students somewhat, 
although not formally, and it has been occasionally suggested by our faculty, but no 
action has been taken by either body. 

INSTITUTIONS IN WHICH PECULIAR CONDITIONS MILITATE AGAINST 
ADOPTING THE HONOR SYSTEM. 

There are a number of institutions where peculiar conditions either 
militate against the adoption of the honor system or take its place. 
For example, President G. Stanley Hall writes: 

Clark University, Worcester, Mass., has only graduate students fitting for the higher 
degrees, and no examinations save personal oral ones. The professors test the students 
individually, then each candidate is brought before all the professors in the depart- 
ments where he has studied. Therefore you see that your inquiry is not relative here. 

President Edmund C. Sanford, Clark College, Worcester, Mass., 
"vsTites : 

The chief arguments against the undertaking of the system here were, first, that we 
had agenuine honor system already in operation, though an informal and unorganized 
one; second, that the requirement of any pledge at the end of examination papers and 
the like was something of an insult to honest men — like asking a reputable man to 
hang up a sign in his store that he does not use short weights; and, third, that it is no 
honorable student conduct to bring the cheating of a fellow student to the notice 
of the authorities either in the student body or in the faculty. 

It is my idea that a good deal of what might be called cheating — for example, the 
transcription of notebooks when these must be submitted to the instructor, or the 
obtaining of transitions by weaker students from the abler in the daily work — are 
matters which are determined in a large measure by student custom, and never raise 
the question of conscience with many students of honest intention who make use of 
them. In such cases the matter lies largely in the hands of the instructor, who usually 
can get work done in the way he desires by making clear just what he wants. 

Among the larger universities, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
Mass., has always taken the pomt of view that its size materially 
makes the application of the honor system ver\^ difficult. President 
Abbott Lawrence Lowell says : 

The honor system at examinations does not exist at Harvard University at all, and, 
indeed, there are great difficulties to introducing it, arising from the size and cosmo- 
poli tan nature of the student body. I take it that the honor system depends not only 
on the individual, but on the fact that the whole student body will resent and prevent 
any breach of it by any member. This is much easier to carry out in a body which is 
small and homogeneous. 

Dean B. S. Hurlbut, of Harvard, remarks on the subject: 

We have a student council. This is an undergraduate organization and deals only 
with undergraduate affairs. As it is a most excellently representative body, however, 
I find it of the greatest service for consultation and in dealing with a good many mat- 
ters of government that come within the province of the dean. The influence of our 
council is, I think, steadily growing, and I try to do everything in my power to increase 
this influence. 



HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVEESITIES. 19 

Another type of iiistitution in which the formal honor system is 
seldom in vogue is the theological seminary and school. President 
John P. Chadwick, of St. Joseph's Seminary, Yonkers, N. Y., replies: 

I beg to state that the honor system, as it is generally known, does not exist in our 
seminary. With us conscience receives such attention that the development of natu- 
rally good character aspiring for the priesthood does not require the honor system. 
Our training, of course, includes honor, inasmuch as our students are taught to repro- 
duce in their life by prayer, self-denial, and earnest work the virtues of our Blessed 
Lord. However, I can see the advantages of the honor system in a secular college, 
and I wish you every success. 

President Francis Brovi^n, of Union Theological Seminary, New 
York City, says : 

Tlie question of the adoption of the honor system, technically so called in educa- 
tional circles, has never come up at this seminary because, doubtless, of the con- 
ditions involved in seminary life. We rely greatly upon the honor of our students, 
but there is no occasion for us to emphasize this by any organic law. In fact, we 
secure all the advantages of such a law without its enactment. Under these cir- 
cumstances it would not be possible for me to answer your questions in detail. 

Aside from the types of institutions just discussed, there is another 
type where a breach of honor is considered a serious offense, with 
uniform and definite penalties. These are the military colleges, 
academies, and schools. The United States Naval Academy, Annap- 
olis, Md., is a striking example, and ex-Supt. John H. Gibbons, 
captain. United States Navy, wTites: 

I have to inform you that, owing to the difference between conditions at this institu- 
tion and those at civil institutions of learning, it is difficult to make answer to the 
categorical questions presented. 

Midshipmen are appointees of the Government, being officers of the Navy in a 
qualified sense. They are paid for their services, and the duties that they perform 
under orders from superior authority are in the nature of contract obligations. They 
are responsible for their conduct, and for any derelictions they may legally undergo 
punishment, including dismissal from the naval service. Their relations to the 
constituted authorities are therefore different from those of an individual who attends 
a civilian institution, paying for the privilege of so doing, and whose only respon- 
sibility to the constituted authorities is such as he may voluntarily assume for the 
privilege of continuance at the institution. 

The honor system has always been a basic principle of this institution, and a failure 
to meet the requirements thereof constitutes a most serious offense which, in its most 
flagrant forms, affords gi'ounds for dismissal. 

INSTITUTIONS THAT HAVE NOT FELT THE NEED OF THE HONOR 

SYSTEM. 

Another group of institutions have not felt the need of the honor 
system according to their letters. 

Vivian B. Small, of Lake Erie College, Painesville, Ohio, writes: 

Examinations are given under the old-fashioned faculty proctoring system. So 
far as I know, no difficulties have ever arisen to cause either faculty or students to 
desire any change. 



20 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVEESITIES. 

Ex-President Arthur H. Wilde, of the University of Arizona, 
Tucson, Ariz., replies: 

The honor system is not in effect in this university. There seems to be no criticism 
of the present conditions, and a mutual feeling of good understanding and of con- 
fidence exists between the faculty and students, so that neither faculty nor students 
have seriously raised the honor question. 

President WilUam F. Dooley anticipates the probable future 
policy of the University of Detroit, Michigan, by saying: 

The honor system does not exist in any of the departments of this institution, has 
never existed, and there is no likelihood that it will be adopted. 

INSTITUTIONS THAT FRANKLY OPPOSE THE HONOR SYSTEM. 

In addition to the points of view in regard to collegiate and univer- 
sity policy in reference to the honor system as outlined above, several 
institutions have expressed the view that they do not have the 
honor system and do not believe in it. Prof. W. E. Everett, of 
Brown University, Providence, R. I., states: 

The question has been discussed, but always adversely. We do not believe in 
the system, although we endeavor as far as "possible to cultivate ideals and standards 
of honor among our students. 

Ohio University, Athens, Ohio, has not considered its introduction. 
President Alston Ellis declares : 

Conditions here do not seem to suggest that its adoption by us would be any help 
to the students or governing body. In the main our students are self-supporting 
and law-abiding and give those in charge of the institution but very little trouble of a 
disciplinary nature. I suppose my own AT.ew of the questions presented would be 
of no special service to you, but I can say that I do not feel disposed to give any large 
amoimt of control to the student body. 

President William P. Few, of Trinity College, Durham, N. C, says: 

We do not have, and I do not believe in, the so-called "honor" system, but we 
try here as in everything else to have students bear their share of responsibility for 
the moral safety of the commimity. 

The view of Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., as given by 
Secretary Ella W. Caleb, is : 

The jurisdiction of the students does not extend to the conduction of the examina- 
tions, which are still proctored by the instructors. The greatest danger in self- 
government among students is that they will so burden themselves with the details 
of administration that they can not properly do the special work for which they came 
to college. We can rely upon them to do the right thing, but feel that they need 
to be guarded a little against undertaking too much. It is from no unwillingness to 
trust them that they do not have fuller powers, though in fact, I think, that they have 
been granted everything they asked for. 

Acting President J. B. Van Meter, of Goucher College, Baltimore, 
Md., summarizes the situation there in the following letter: 

We have nothing organized in this college that would seem t« admit of replies 
to your specific questions. There is a students' organization which takes cognizance 



HONOB SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVEBSITIES. 21 

of student conduct in all its reaches, and the general consciousness of the student 
body is such as would lie back of what is usually denominated an honor system. 
Eight or ten years ago there was a good deal of talk about an honor system, but it did 
not come to anything. I think students and faculty were equally interested in the 
matter. Personally I do not like the honor system. It has a suggestion in it that 
under a specific system there are principles controlling conduct which need not con- 
trol it apart from that system. It seems to me that it is very desirable to recognize 
principles of honor as inhering in the very constitution of society and not grov\ing 
out of a particular legislation or organization. 

Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me., holds practically the same idea 
of the honor system as that held by Brown University. President 
WiUiam De Witt Hyde, who has previously written against the honor 
system, tersely writes in reply to the questions submitted: 

We have no honor system at Bowdoin. Our effort here is to get the honor without 
the system, and while we are not entirely successful with incoming students, it is 
a very rare thing for a man in the upper classes to cheat. 

INSTITUTIONS IN WHICH THE HONOR SYSTEM HAS FAILED. 

It is frequently assumed that a large number of institutions have 
tried the honor system without success; when studied in the last 
analysis that number, however, is small. Bowdoin has been men- 
tioned as an example of one of these institutions, but President Hyde 
says the system has never been formally tried in his college. 

The following institutions have discarded the honor system tem- 
porarily or permanently, and it will be of interest to see what their 
comments are. Prof. H. M. King, of Cornell College, Mount Vernon, 
Iowa, says: 

No general honor system is in vogue with us. From time to time there has been 
some small agitation about the matter among the students, sometimes apparently 
only for the sake of having something to discuss in the college paper. One depart- 
ment, under an instructor not now with us, tried the plan in his examinations for 
some short time, but gave it up. There has been no general faculty action on the 
matter, and no machinery of anj^ general use. 

President Henry A. Apple, of Franklin and Marshall CoUege. 
Lancaster, Pa., writes: 

The system did not work satisfactorily, mainly, it is thought, on account of the 
"reporting" feature, the students being reluctant to report violations of the rules, 
even to their own chosen representati^'es on the administrative board or senate. It 
was accordingly abolished in 1906 by the faculty, without a word or sign of protest on 
the part of the stiident body. 

The other institutions that have definitely stated that this system 
has been dropped claim that this has been due in the main to unsat- 
isfactory conditions, and they are working toward its reestablish- 
ment. Registrar Forest C. Ensign, of the State University of Iowa. 
Iowa City, says : 

I must say that the honor system does not prevail here. The college of medicine 
had installed the honor system some yrars ago, but this year, at the request of the 



22 HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 

students, it was abandoned. We are not quite I'eady for it. We have some student 
control now, largely through an advisory committee known as the greater university 
committee. Through the leadership of this committee it is likely that a well-organized 
student council will be created with the honor system iu view. We feel that such a 
system must come as a genuine demand on the part of the students themselves, and 
the matter will not be pushed. 

Prof. H. G. Parker, of William Jewell College, Liberty, Mo., says: 

I am really at a loss to answer yoiu* inquiries, as our honor system is in somewhat of 
a chaotic condition. Some years ago we supposedly had an honor system which 
involved the signing of a pledge on the part of the students, but it did not prevent 
trouble, and the whole scheme fell into disrepute. An attempt was made about two 
years ago to perfect a complete honor system, but as the crux of the whole matter 
rested on the willingness of a student to report a fellow student, the matter again fell 
through. Just recently a movement has been started to put this sort of business in 
the hands of a student senate, elected from the junior and senior classes. We have 
not time to try it out, and I can not report, therefore, as to how it will work. 

INSTITUTIONS WHICH REPLY NEGATIVELY, WITHOUT COMMENT. 

In reply to the information solicited from the 475 institutions in 
regard to the use of the honor system, 147 replied without many 
comments that it was not in operation. 

CONCLUSIONS. 

The material in this monogi'aph would lead to the conclusion that, 
to secure the best results from any form of the honor system, both 
student and faculty sentiment should be in favor of its adoption. 
Frequently, starting in one class or department, it has been found to 
be most successfully developed when apphed to the whole institu- 
tion, but loses in efficiency when appHed to too wide a range of activi- 
ties. 

The 123 institutions that are trying the system are its strongest 
advocates, and there has been a steady but marked tendency toward 
general adoption tln-oughout this country. This tendency has gained 
most in strength during the past three years. 

The chief arguments against the honor system may be summed up 
as follows: Classroom honesty is an academic matter; some people 
beUeve, therefore, that it should be under faculty jurisdiction and 
control. Some executives do not care to give more control to stu- 
dents, since these duties are difficult to define and take the students' 
time from the regular studies. Students contend also that it tends 
to burden the better or more honest students with the shortcomings 
of the dehnquent ones. In some communities there is a sentiment 
that signing a pledge impUes dishonesty, and in many institutions 
there is still a feeUng that individual honor does not involve the 
reporting of theft and dishonesty on the part of others. Some large 
institutions have such a cosmopoHtan group of students that homo- 



HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 23 

geneity in the classroom ideals is difficult to secure and maintain; 
small institutions have younger preparatory students to include in 
their regulations. 

The immediate and ultimate aims of the honor system which may 
be considered of most significance are: It rests fundamentally upon 
the initiative of undergi'aduates, and initiative always has potential 
good as a possibility; it is dependent upon unity of purpose and com- 
munity of effort, which is another valuable asset when turned in the 
right direction; it tends to bring about a frank and candid relation 
between the students and the administrative force of an institution ;/- 
it tends toward increasing the loyalty to an institution, by strength- 
ening pubhc opinion in regard to the virtue of honesty; it increases 
individual responsibiUty, which may take a marked drop during 
college days; it breeds confidence and seKrespect in similar situa- 
tions ; as a rule it appeals to the better class of students, and leads 
them to look at their own actions and the actions of other fellows 
from the point of view of an adult; it utilizes the stronger characters to 
help bolster up the weaker ones. 

The success of the honor system is due in the main to the natural 
desire of students to formulate ideals for themselves, the interest for 
cooperative activity and team work and the pride involved in creat- 
ing college pubhc sentiment and college loyalty. 

It is not possible to recommend a single typer of constitution for 
organization of the honor system, but the constitution and by laws 
should be short, simple, and definite, since new and untried students 
must be educated yearly. Likewise the enthusiasm is sure to wane 
every two or three years. 

In general a formal pledge is desirable, and ultimately this should 
include the wiUingness or obUgation to report all infractions by others. 

The administrative council is apparently most effective when com- 
posed of students only, and the membership when both elective and 
automatic. 

Final jurisdiction in regard to penalties is very successfully admin- 
istered in a number of large institutions by the students, but, in gen- 
eral, it is better to have this power rest ultimately with the faculty 
and the board of regents or trustees. 



24 



HONOE SYSTEM IN COLLEGi;S AND UNIVBBSITIES. 






-H I -H-H-H-H I I -H-H I I -«-«-H+l+-H I I -H+ I -H+-H-H-H-H I + -+^ + + + -H?^-H 



ra " rt »r 



■>> 






f^ fe C^ CO p^ E"^ OD CC a< 02 pI^ [i^ "^ ^ fe [iH CO P4 pi^ pt4 p^ fI^ CO pt, Ps, fi, Ph Pq P^ Pi, fiH fi^ P^H fH fe 



ago -j3 ® 



PdB^£>awdc£i"«=<iwp.iEii<iE4pii-^ddd'^'<5°<Jwp4wwdw-dw<iww<^ 

PdPd" ■»■ wc4pii p4 w 






p^En Pi, fi, CO w 

ai oj ;;:xc ai c6 ai ai °<5 =y cQ cQ ^J CO tc "^ CO cid CO CO CO "^ cQ ai CD od "^ oa CO 

adod CO CO (^ P^ 






W 



+ + I + I 4- I I +4- I ++ I ++t^+ I I I + I + I I ++ I + + + + I I I I I 



d^^T) o o Si;-— ■ 



I + + + + I + I I I +T+ I I 



+ + 
+ + 



+ 111 +T + 



+ + 
+ + 



I + I + + + T + + 



o-ai^ 



+ 1 +++++++++++++++++++++ 1-++++++ 1 +++++++ 



^HTS 



si-a|- 

c >■ « t- » o 



0001^0— <oo>no.-H<3>cnr-<.-ion;00.-H>-icDOrHC5'-iOoojC'-"^'-''^oooC~''-' 



CO tn cQ CO 

CO fe pi< Et< od c^ W K li fo 03 cc' pi^ pii pi^ "^ t^f^ <» f^ IB f^ IM f^ ^ "^ "^ "^ 00 "^ Ph ^^ 

P"H p^ f^ P^ 



-S P-„ w ca M 

•^ <s g o a 



I I ++++++++ ++++ I ++ I ++ I + I +++++++ I + I I +++ I 



OrS 



5-^ 



OOCOCOOOCOOOGOOOGOOOOOOOOOOOCnOOl^OOOOOOt^OOOOC 



iCJC?)t^C^oiiot^*-<Troooii-« 



sa 

IS 03 

o aToS 

" «•■« g o g 
b 3 a^i'^'S 



i2 



a;S-9 



M o -^ 



03''=ls'3 






^ i :.a 

;2;.2 



>:«^ 



<!t:o 



r 

c3 O M 



•a 



^s^^r-a^.^^^^-e 



sis 



2 d=^9 S^^ e^ el2 l^-E'3|^"§?^'H3 S| g sa ^-g § oQ §-§.210 

a, 5 g g 03 .£f t3 O5203-HSVi5:;XrS^_?£Mr^Hom^'ainK*-'LO.ado(-l3R/-itjihn 

<5<}-<<<;<;<i-?;-^<ip5eDmpqoduooddddofiPP=^WPiJWP^SSt<obb 



HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 25 



-H+ I + + -H+ I +1 I -H I -H I I ++I I -H I -H+I-H-H-H+I-H+ +-HI++( | ^-f I +) + -H + -H +)-+)-« + -H I -« 



P^cca9(<4p^(i<E^□!iPHl^|j^aQfii(^P>^aQp^P^ (nf^f^f^c^oiaic^P^f^ pE<P^(x4(b^f^PHa3(^aQp^P^P^P<4l^^P^«Q^OH^(H 



w a W B Hc4 

OQ en 03 pL^ 

'^cdcoPq'^oQ'^oQt^zJcQcnf^aQOQtnfatn 03 od oi ta ai ai ad aj cm x en od gq ai oq =3 od cc oc m co fin cc f^ cg 00 fe cd oi aj aj od 



I ++ I I + + +t^+ I I 11 + 11+ MIMII++I +ll?-il++l++ll+ + +ll++l + 



+ 1 + 
+ ' + 



+ + T ++T I 1 1 ++ I ++++++ I ++ I + + + 



++ , ++ 
"+ I ■^++ 



+ + + I I I ++T I + I 



+++ I I + + + ++++ I I ++++ + + + + +++ + + + ++++++ + + + +++ + + +++++++ + 



Oi 00 QO 00 Oi 00 Oi 01 t_>Cn Oa 00 ^ 05 Oi Oi 00 Oi Oi Oi Oi 0> Oi 00 00 00 Oi CO 05 0:1 Oi 05 05 03 en CR 05 Ci a: 00 O^ 00 O) 00 03 Gi 00 00 Oi OT 



CQ OQ CO M ptipL, 00 

°3t^03°3'^'j'3&,'infc(|i<!»|iiad"y&ip^°3aj OTt>3'=3(iiM!B»<j<^fe&<' |j^Qdfefef^a3odt^ModtB6^QdS^pi^C^(i^O^DQad'^P^ 



+ + + +++++ I ++ I +++ I ++ +++ + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + I + + + +++++ I I 



^t^cooo-^c^rj«c*40i'«reooscDc»Doaiooco 
oot^oooooo 00000000000000000000000000 



C5 CO N »i^ <M CD O CO N « 
OOCO-^CDCC-^COOCCir^ oco: 



iCOTPCCOSO^HCOl^^n-HOOOCOi-HTtiOOlCT-lOCr^ 



-03 ^ t^ r^ t 



)CC00 00 00r^O0CO00 0C OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOI^OOOOOOC 










S <D _- s c .3 i 



3^ = !5£^!;a^S'-^«^««5«r&a : 



>- o 5 

000 



>-' >/— o> £rS 

"o fe o o Sf m s 
o| g g;2 So 









S.9 OV-j g S g or-'_ ?o C8 O .H fe 3 C 



g^<;0 



3°M 



r^.l?55.S.i 



■s^yg 



a- s- c; 2: ai a; q3 



,j^ aj/«^ ° 2.S M^ O > site's hT 

3^^ 0= mS K 5-n § <o ">>> g «o o o o 
mJR o^os-^-S > o g OS o o-ga t» >>>>>. 
a J_ ^ m o ^ ^ ax: a -^ >-* L3 -^ '^ '^ 'S 's; 

*j^^ S a a § gSl a g-iSa 3 a 3 3 33 



26 



HONOE SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 



pS + Ss'i I 

, -HO 



O o o 



ft. 



•+ I -ti-+l-H-«-H-H+-H-W+l + -H-«-t1 1 -H-H-H I -H-H I I I 






p^fllpiHfefc^Ci^cOME^feCQ0QDHPHpii^f^Pi^fiHp^PqC^pi^f^P"H!i<(i4|i( 



g t;! .g c3 o a 

P OJ o -^ © 









ai c/f aj 03 ■<) czi CO t^(^ cooJw'^aacooQoQMoacd'^JaJcQcQcocQcjQtn 
oi fe M 






I + I I 4- I +R+ I I I ++ 1 I + I + I + I I + I ++ I 



C ^-^TJ C? O Ji; --^ 



T^++ I TTP+ 



++--,+ + + + + + 
+ 1 1^ ■*- + + + + I + 



+ + "*" + + 



+++ I +TTT+TT 1+ 



t CI ^ O 



++++++++ I +++++++++++++++++++ 



CiOlOOOTiCSOlOOOO ^GO Ol 00 Oi 00 CO Os v._X3i OOOOOOiOI^OOOlOiOS 






O J-. S'j^ a, o 



w aj aj CO 6r QQ t:^ ^02 ro fo f^ '<S P>^ 5;,co CO CO oQ |i^ M <^ "^ m CO 






I ++ I ++++++++++++++++++ I ++++ I 



t>-ooc30c*:iO'— tt^-'TcccocicociNM^oscooO'— iior^ooicoo-Tt^T 



^.2 

g*Sfe'.a^i3<c<E 






^■3 ~ ^ 



(!3 

J 'si ->^ <^.S 



<o <»•- 



^•a 



■;:;« -^^fe -33 

.SfSj:! M-tJ ® rl O !B OTM aS S-" S-S !-i\^ -t^ t^'-^fi'^'Sl 3 5 O 



i-2 o o 3 o 



_.„<_<_._<_>>,.„ v^ ^ <- .« f=i.-e >»I1 '^>-' iTa^ &"5 S M « ^ 

.■ss.-s.-s.t?.-s.-s.-s.-s.t5.-s.-s s -^ o MMo a rt rt r, 2 soii-a 



aSSflSaodflrta c.3.ti.fci55.2S^.S^S'C'cS °? 



:>^^^^^^^^^^^^!>, 



APPENDIX. 

A. TYPE CONSTITUTIONS. 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY. 
Article I. 

Section 1. There shall be a committee consisting of six members who shall repre- 
sent the student body and deal with all cases involving violations of the honor system. 

Sec. 2. The members of this committee shall be the presidents of the four classes, 
and two others, one a member of the senior class and one a member of the junior class. 

Sec. 3. The president of the senior class shall be chairman of the committee, and the 
president of the junior class shall be clerk. 

Article II. 

Sec. 1. Early in the fall of each year, immediately after the election of the officers 
of the four classes, the chairman of the committee shall convene the presidents of the 
three other classes and that member of the senior class who served as the elected junior 
member on the previous committee, and they shall complete their number by the 
election of one member from the junior class. 

Sec. 2. If this member of the junior class be afterwards elected president of his class, 
or be otherwise incapacitated from holding the office, a member of the same class shall 
be chosen to fill the vacancy according to the method of section 1. 

Sec. 3. If action of the committee becomes necessary before the fall elections of the 
class presidents have taken place, the four presidents at that time, together with the 
senior member who had served in his junior year, will constitute a temporary com- 
mittee for the particular cases, with the same regulations of powers, procedure, and 
penalties adopted in this constitution. 

Article III. 

Sec. 1. The committee shall have the power .to summon the accused persons and 
witnesses and conduct a formal investigation, and in case of con\'iction the penalty 
shall be recommendation to the faculty of the separation from college of the man con- 
victed, with the addition in extreme cases of publication to a mass meeting of the 
college. 

Sec. 2. The committee shall make a single report to the faculty of all cases acted 
upon during one series of examinations, consisting of a brief resum6 of evidence taken, 
their decision in the case, and the recommendation of the penalty to be imposed. 

Sec. 3. The committee may at any time summon a mass meeting for instmction or 
to support their action in any disputed question, or to report the name and case of any 
extreme offender. 

Article IV. 

Sec. 1. The place and time of meeting shall be left to the chairman of the committee. 

Sec. 2. The trial shall be formal and conducted in the following manner, with the 

president of the senior class as the chairman, and the president of the junior claR« ae 

27 



28 HONOR SVSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 

clerk: Witnesses against the accused shall be taken first and then testimony taken in 
full. The accused shall be called separately and allowed to make his statement, pre- 
senting witnesses for his defense. All witnesses and the accused may be questioned 
by members of this committee and a decision then rendered according to the law and 
e\'idence. 

Sec. 3. Five of the six votes shall be necessaiy to conviction. 

Sec. 4. All evidence possible shall be procured in every case, and in no event shall 
a man be tried the second time for the same offense except in the light of new and 
important evidence. 

Article ^ . 

Sec. 1. Violations of the honor system shall consist of any attempt to receive assist- 
ance from written aids or from any person or paper, or in any attempt to give assistance, 
whether the one so doing has completed his own paper or not. This rule holds both 
within and without the examination room during the entii'e time the examination 
is in progress; that is, until all papers have been handed in. 

Sec. 2. Violations shall also consist in obtaining or attempting to obtain previous 
to any examination copies of the examination papers or the questions to appear 
thereon, or to gain any illegal knowledge of these questions. 

Sec. 3. Any man not signing the pledge placed on the examination paper will be 
notified by the professor holding the examination, and if unable then to sign he will 
be reported to the committee for investigation. 

Article VI. 

The several committees shall keep a record of all cases acted upon in their sessions, 
without mentioning names of the accused, also a record of successive actions of mass 
meetings with respect to the honor system. These records, together with the consti- 
tution, shall be preserved by the senior member of the committee of each year for the 
instruction of that committee. 

Article VII. 

This constitution may be amended by a three-fourths vote of those present at a mass 
meeting of the college. 

Article VIII. 

This constitution shall be published in the Daily Princetonian during the first 
month of each college year. 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY. 

Article I. 

(A) This honor system shall apply to students in all corn-see given in the College of 
Agi-iculture and, pending the adoption of an honor system by the other colleges, to 
all agricultural students in such colleges. 

Article II. 

(A) All students shall be given an opportunity to sign these articles, and if a majority 
of students shall sign them they shall hold for all students. New students shall each 
year be given an opportunity to sign these articles. 

(B) Students thus included shall be on their honor to refrain from "cribbing" in 
classrooms and examinations. 

(C) Students shall personally reprimand any violation and report the offense to the 
student committee as defined hereinafter. 



HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES. 29 

Article III. 

(A) The committee shall be known as the "Committee on student honor." 

(B) The committee shall consist of three (3) seniors, two (2) juniors, one (1) sopho- 
more, and one (1) freshman. 

(C) The chairman shall be elected from the committee by them at their first meet- 
ing at the beginning of each college year. 

(D) The senior, junior, and sophomore members shall be elected from their respec- 
tive classes at meetings held at the first agricultural assembly of each college year. 

(E) The freshman member shall be selected by this committee during the following 
December. 

(F) The chairman shall fill vacancies in the committee by appointment. 

(G) The committee shall also serve until their successors are appointed. - 

Article IV. 

(A) It shall be the duty oi the chairman to record all offenses reported; to call 
meetings of the committee when necessary; and to act in accordance with the finding 
of the committee. 

(B) It shall be his further duty to notify a student of any offense reported against 
him, and to bring his case before the committee immediately. 

(C) The chairman shall have no vote upon any question except in case of a tie. 

Article V. 

(A) It shall be the duty of the committee to pass upon all evidence relating to cases 
brought before it. 

(B) The conviction of an offense shall be made only upon the unanimous vote of 
the committee present. 

(C) It shall be the duty of the committee, if they find the offense of suflBcient 
gravity, to require the withdrawal of the student from the university for such a length 
of time as may be deemed just. But if the offense be less serious, or the circurr;- 
stances ameliorating, the student may be deprived of credit either for the course 
or the examination in question. And in case of failure to comply with the decision, 
the committee shall report the case to the proper authorities. 

Article VI. 

(A) In case the chairman or the member of the committee be reported, his place 
shall be deemed vacant and shall be filled in accordance with the provisions ol 
Article III, Section B; if, however, he be found innocent, he shall resume his former 
position. 

Article VII. 

(A) The findings of the committee shall be published in the university press, but 
all names shall be withheld. 

Article VIII. 

(A) Amendments to or alterations of these articles shall be binding when adopted 
by a majority vote of the entire number of students in the College of Agriculture 
regularly assembled, provided that one week's notice of this action shall have been 
given. 

Article IX. 

(A) The pledge which all students .shall be asked to sign shall be as follows: 
"I hereby pledge upon my honor to abide by the conditions of the above article^;, 
provided they are adopted by a majority of the students of the College of Agriculture. ' 



dfi} HONOR SYSTEM IN COLLEGES AJSTD UNIVBKSITIES. 

B. TYPE PLEDGES. 

Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.: 
" I have neither given nor received aid in this examination.-^ 

Miami University, Oxford, Ohio: 

"I pledge myself to support the honor system to the utmost of my ability, and not 
only myself to act in accordance with what I conscientiously believe to be its spirit, 
but also to encourage others to do the same." 
Ohio Wesley an University: 

"In view of the introduction of the honor system in Ohio Wesleyan University, 1 
pledge myself to support that system to the utmost of my ability, and not only myself 
to act in accordance with what I conscientiously believe to be its spirit, but also to 
encourage others to do the same and strongly to discountenance any violation of it." 

University of Texas: 

"I have upon my honor neither given nor received help in this examination, 
neither have I seen any one else give or receive help." 

University of Virginia: 

"I, A. B., do hereby certify on honor that I have derived no assistance during the 
time of this examination from any source whatever, whether oral, written, or in print, 
in giving the above answers." 

Wake Forest College, Wake Forest, N. C: 
"I have neither given nor received help from any source." 

Wilson College, Chambersburg, Pa.: 

"I hereby pledge my honor as a student of Wilson College that I will endeavor to 
abide by all rules of the student government association; that I will do no dishonest 
work in daily preparations and recitations, nor in written work, and that I will 
report to the honor board of the self-government association any dishonest work that 
comes to my notice." 



C. MEMBERSHIP OF TYPE ADMINISTRATION COUNCILS. 

A.niherst College: 
Class presidents. 
1 member of the senior class. 

1 member of the junior class. 
Denison University; 

3 seniors. 

2 juniors. 

1 sophomore. 

1 freshman. 
Hobart College: 

1 upper classman from each fraternity. 

1 from the nonfratemity men. 
Lehigh University : 

Members of the "Arcadia," a club of 15 members composed of the highest officer 
of each organization. 

■3 lower class officers. 
Randolph-Macon Woman's College: 

President and vice president from seniors of each dorncdtory. 

Secretary from juniors. 

Treasurer from sophomores. 



HONOR SYSTEM IN OOLLKGKS AND UNIVERSITIES. 31 

Tulane University: 

All officers of classes. 

President of student body. 
University of the South, Sewanee, Tenn, ; 

3 from theological department 

3 from senior class. 

3 from junior class. 

2 from sophomore clasw. 

2 from freshman class. 
Wells College: 

2 members from each claaa 
Wofford College: 

Presidents of classes. 

2 men from each class olw^tod l>y proHidentfl. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note. — With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmann. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thorndike. 

1908. 

fNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 10 cts. 

*No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

*No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public" education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 190S. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
No. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

1909. 

♦No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
*No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 
No. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of expo- 

rienco, salaries. Edward L. Thorndike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1S67-1907. 
*No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
*No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

*No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

*No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. I, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
fNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
*No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 50 cts. 
*No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 cts. 
tNo. 0. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 

I 



II BULLETIN OF THE BUBEAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. ^ 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A, C. Monahan. 6 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. \\'illiam C. Euediger. 16 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher lor his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
fNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 1B08-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational S3'stem of China as recently reconstructed. Barry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and refulaticES. H.Updegrafl. 20cts. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, lGlO-11. 

1912. 

*No. 1. A course of study for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F.MutchlerandW. J. Craig. 5cts. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 6 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 6 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegrafl. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 Cts. 

*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. Sets. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12. lOcts.) 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrick. 
*No. 13. InSuences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 6 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics. No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
*No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 6 cts. 
*No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. 5 cts. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Biuritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan UpdegrafE and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 

*No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. G. Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. III. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Burean of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
*No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in '^A'ake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 6 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and C. Goldziher. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
*No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

*No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 6 cts. 
fNo. 33. Statistics of State universities aad other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
*No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 6 cts. 
*No. 3. The teaching of modern languages in the United Slates. Charles H. Handschin. 16 cts. 
*No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E, MaoLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OP THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. Ill 

*No. 6. Agricultural instruction In high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenks. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

fNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

tNo. 10. Monthly record of current eduational publications, March, 1913. 

fNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuriug the efficiency of schools or systems of schools. 6 cts. 

*No. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

fNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

*No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Woroeatflr, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
♦No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslax. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwlth. 16 ots. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, .Tune, 1913. 
♦No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
♦No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E.G. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States. Georg Kerschenstehjer. 

5 cts. 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
fNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

♦No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
♦No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
♦No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 
tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
♦No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
♦No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
♦No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12, lOots. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
♦No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. HaiLmaim. 
♦No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
♦No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental nnral school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
♦No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
♦No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
♦No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

♦No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
♦No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monalian and A. Pbillips. 

No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 
♦No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
♦No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. V 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislationand judicial decisions relating to education, October 1,1909, to October I 1912. Jsmee 

C. Boyktn and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive featiu-es of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 
♦No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Mancbestsr. 
I. L. Kandel. 15 cts. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universitirs and other institutions of higher education partially support<xl by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

♦No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publicaiions, January, 1914. 5 eta. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
♦No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfleld. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. K. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1914. 
♦No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
*No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 50 cts. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. WUliam P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly report of current educational publications, October, 1914. 

No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 30. Education for the home— Part I. General statement. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part II. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural school teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1/ Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 

No. 4. The health of school children. W. H. Heck. - 

No. 5. Organization of State departments of education. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 6. A study of colleges and high schools. 

No. 7. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Samuel P. Capea. 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 9 - - - - - - WHOLE NUMBER 633 

MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT 
EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS 

COMPILED BY THE LIBRARY DIVISION OF THE 
BUREAU OF EDUCATION. UNDER THE DIREC- 
TION OF JOHN D. WOLCOTT. CHIEF OF DIVISION 



MARCH, 1915 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCUEED FEOM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

5 CENTS PER COPY 



MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT EDUCATIONAL 

PUBLICATIONS. 



CoKTENTS. — ^Introductory notes — Publications of associations — Educational history — Current educa- 
tional conditions— Pedagogics and didactics — Educational psychology: Child study — Special methods of 
instruction — Special subjects of curriculum— Kindergarten and primary school — Rural education — Second- 
ary education— Teachers: Training and professional status— Higher education — School administration- 
School management — School architecture — School hygiene and sanitation — Physical training — Social 
aspects of education — Religious education — Manual and vocational training — Vocational guidance — 
Home economics — Professional education — Civic education — Military training — Education of women — 
Negro education— Orientals— Defective and delinquent children- Libraries and reading- Bureau of 
Education: Recent publications— New periodicals— Bulletin of the Bureau of Education. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTES. 

The following are 10 noteworthy books of the current month, the 
numbers in parentheses referring to the numbers of the full entries 
in this bulletin: National education association, Journal of proceed- 
ings and addresses, 1914 (156); National society for the study of 
education. Fourteenth yearbook, Part I (157); General education 
board. Account of its activities, 1902-1914 (167); Earhart, Types of 
teaching (177); Thorndike, Teachers' estimates of the quality of 
specimens of handwriting (197) ; Hayward, Lesson in appreciation — 
Pedagogics of beauty (219); Pennsylvania state educational associa- 
tion. Report on rural schools (247) ; Stewart, Cooperative methods in 
development of school support (283); Burgerstein, School hygiene 
(298) ; Women's educational and industrial union, The public schools 
and women in office service (339). 

Only pubhcations of the Bureau of Education are available for 
free distribution by this office. All others here Hsted may ordinarily 
be obtained from their respective pubhshers, either directly or through 
a dealer, or, in the case of an association pubhcation, from the 
secretary of the issuing organization. 

Books, pamphlets, etc., intended for inclusion in this record should 
be sent to the library of the Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 



PUBUCATIONS OF ASSOCIATIONS. 

154. American school peace league. Year book, 1913-1914. 139 p. 8". (Mrs. 
Fannie F. Andrews, secretary, Boston, Mass.) 

Contains: Emma Feldbaum: The opportunity and duty of the schools in the International 
peace movement, p. 107-18. 

3 



4 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

155. National council of teachers of English. [Papers and proceedings of the 

fourth annual meeting, Chicago, November 26-28, 1914] English journal, 
4: 1-74, January 1915. 

Contains: 1. F. T. Baker: High-school reading: compulsory and voluntary, p. 1-8. 2. E. A. 
Thurber: Composition in our colleges, p. 9-14. 3. R. F. Lockridge: A new idea in high- 
school discussion contests, p. 15-20. 4. W. D. Johnston: The relation of the library to the 
teaching of English, p. 21-27. 5. Three reports to the National council of teachers of English— 

1. Scientific standards in English teaching, p. 28-34; II. Report of the committee on plays in 
schools and colleges, p. 34-40; III. Report of the committee on English in the coimtry schools, 
p. 41-46. 6. [Proceedings, with abstracts of some of the papers] p. 47-74. 

156. National education association of the United States. Journal of proceed- 

ings and addresses of the fifty-second annual meeting, held at St. Paul, Min- 
nesota, July 4-11, 1914. Ann Arbor, Mich., The Association, 1914. 928 p, 
8°. (D. W. Springer, secretary, Ann Arbor, Mich.) 

General Sessions. 

Contains: 1. Joseph Swain: The relation of the teacher to American citizenship, p. 29-35. 

2. The status of woman— L. K. Mathews: Training women for social responsibility, p. 40-45; 
Sophonisba P. Breckinridge: Some aspects of the public school from a social worker's point of 
view, p. 45-51; Emma M. Perkins: The humanities, old and new, p. 51-56; Mary E. Woolley: 
Preparation of women for twentieth-century life, p. 56-60. 3. Teachers' salaries and pensions — 
C. W. Dabney: The college professor and the nation, p. 60-66; Grace C. Strachan: Salaries based 
on the position and not on the sex of incumbent, p. 66-71; W. I. Hamilton: Teachers' retirement 
allowances, p. 71-78. 4. Scott Nearrng: The public-school teacher and the standard of living, 
p. 78-92. 5. Principles and aims of education— W. L. Bryan: Common-sense and beyond, p. 
94-98; N. C. Schaefler: The purpose of elementary and high-school education, p. 98-101; Alex- 
ander Meiklejohn: The purpose of the liberal college, p. 102-3. 6. Education in a democracy — 
E. A. Ross: Education for social service, p. 103-6; W. O. Thompson: Education for political and 
moral service, p. 106-12. 7. The needs of the public schools— J. W. Cook: Professionally pre- 
pared teachers, p. 113-15; J. M.Greenwood: The kingdom of little things, p. 115-18; L. D. Harvey- 
Systematic education for those pupils leaving school too soon, p. 119-22; E. T. Fairchild: Progress 
of the rural schools, p. 122-25; C. G. Pearse: Let both grow together until the harvest, p. 125-28; 
J. Y. Joyner: The adaptation of the work of the school to the needs of the people, p. 129-31. 

Department of Superintendence (Richmond meeting, 1914). 

8. E. T. Devine: Education and social economy, p. 142-50. 9. Fundamental distinctions 
between liberal and vocational education [by] David Snedden, p. 150-61; [by] W. C. Bagley, 
p. 161-70. 10. R. J. Condon: School and shop— work and study, p. 171-75. 11. F. W. Thomas: 
The apprentice schools of the Santa Fe railway system, p. 175-84. 12. Josephine C. Preston: 
Some conditions in rural schools and their improvement, p. 189-93. 13. Cora W. Stewart: The 
moonlight schools of Kentucky, p. 193-99. 14. E. L. Thorndike: The foundations of educa- 
tional achievement, p. 199-206. 15. W. A. Jessup: Economy of time in arithmetic, p. 209-22. 
16. A. D. Yocum: The determinants of the course of study, p. 223-35. 17. J. W. Withers: 
How the course of study should be determined, p. 235-43. 18. E. P. Cubberley: Rural-school 
administration, p. 244-50. 19. Payson Smith: Dangers of overorganization of the rural schools, 
p. 253-57. 20. Interrelation of the office of state superintendent and that of county superin- 
tendent [by] F. G. Blair, p. 257-60; [by] 0. J. Morelock, p. 260-63. 21. The function of the 
school to the community it serves— A. Its scholastic function [by] J. M. Gwinn, p. 264-66; B. 
Its social function [by] J. M. Greenwood, p. 266-69. 22. E. D. Pusey: Testing grade teachers 
for efBcieney, p. 283-86. 

National Council of Education. 

23. Minimum sanitary requirements for rural schools, p. 295-301. 24. G. D. Strayer: Report 
of the committee on tests and standards of efficiency in schools and school systems— a brief 
statement concerning the purpose, nature and conduct of school surveys, p. 302-6; Discussion, 
p. 306-10. 25. C. S. Meek: The public-school survey, p. 310-14. 26. Sex hygiene— A. Wan ted— 
a twentieth-century ideal [by] Grace C. Strachan, p. 317-18; B. Sex hygiene— what the schools 
can do [by] C. G. Pearse, p. 318-22; Discussion, p. 322-25. 27. Co-operating forces for the improve- 
ment of rural school conditions [by] A. H. Chamberlain, p. 327-32; [by] Margaret E. Schallen- 
berger, p. 332-37; [by]C. P. Gary, p. 338-40; [by] Adelaide S. Baylor, p. 340-42; [by]"D. B. John- 
son, p. 342-44. 28. Superintendent problems [by] J. W. Carr, p. 344-49; [by] L. E. Wolfe, p. 
349-54; [by] W. R. Siders, p. 354^6; [by] John Macdonald, p. 356-58; [by] David Felmley, p. 
358-61. 29. J. W. Cook: Some positive educational gains in the last decade, p. 369-75. 30. 
Harmonizing vocational and cultural education [by] Josephine C. Preston, p. 375-78; [by] H. H. 



CUEEENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

Seerley, p. 378-SO; [by] G. W. A. Luckey, p. 380-83; [by] J. W. Crabtree, p. 384-85; [by] J. W. 
Cook, p. 385-86. 31. Economy of time in education [by] Frank Strong, p. 386-90; [by] H. B. 
Wilson, p. 390-95; [by] E. G. Blair, p. 395-97; [by] L. D. Harvey, p. 397^101; [by] V. E. E. 
Scribner, p. 401-404. 

Department of Kindergarten Education. 

32. M. P. E. Groszmarm: Adaptation of the work of the kindergarten to the needs of indi- 
vidual children, p. 406-13. 33. Myra M. Winchester: What the United States Bureau of edu- 
cation is doing for the kindergarten, 413-15. 34. Georgia Alexander: Standardizing the work 
in the kindergarten and elementary schools, p. 415-20. 

Department of Elementary Education. 

35. The individual child in his individual needs: the school life of the child — A. Self-expres- 
sion in the school [by] J. W. Searson, p. 422-27; B. Preparation for service thru the school [by] 
N. C. Macdonald, p. 427-30. 36. The individual child and individual needs: the home life of 
the child— A. Self-expression in society [by] Julia F. Walker, p. 430-34; B. Self-protection thru 
knowledge and habit [by] Margaret E. Schallenberger, p. 435-39; C. Constructive civic agencies 
[by] E. J. Ward, p. 439-43. 

Department of Secondary Education. 

37. E. G. Cooley: Bishop Grundtvig and the people's high schools, p. 451-59. 38. E. G. 
Allen: Some things worth while in industrial education in secondary schools, p. 465-70. 39. 
R. E. Blount: The responsibility of the teacher with regard to the teaching of sex hygiene, 
p. 470-75. 40. J. E. Peabody: Some experiments in sex education, p. 475-81. 41. C. D. Kings- 
ley: Problems confronting the Commission on the reorganization of secondary education, p. 
483-88. 

Department of Higher Education. 

42. Frank Strong: Religious education in universities, p. 489-93, 

Department of Normal Schools. 

43. David Felmley: The reorganization of the normal-school curriculum, p. 498-504. 44. The 
preparation of teachers and supervisors for the industrial branches and other special lines [by] 
L. J. Corbly, p. 505-9; [by] J. W. Crabtree, p. 509-13. 45. Extension work in normal schools 
[by] E. T. Mathes, p. 513-15; [by] H. C. Mtonich, p. 516-19; [by] H. G. Williams, p. 519-23. 46. 
H. H. Seerley: The preparation of teachers for high schools, p. 529-32. 47. J. J. Doyne: The 
preparation of teachers for rural schools, p. 532-36. 48. J. W. Cook: The practice school and 
the work of the heads of departments in it, p. 541-48. 50. J. W. Brister: How can normal 
schools best help the forward movement tn rural life? p. 548-52. 51. A.C.Thompson: Notable 
shortcomings of state normal schools, p. 554-^9. 52. W. H. Cheever: The content of the course 
in sociology in a normal school, p. 559-60; Discussion, p. 560-64, 

Department of Vocational Education and Practical Arts. 

53. A. L. Williston: Should manual training and technical high schools abandon their general 
and college preparatory aims and become efficient secondary schools of applied science? p. 
677-82. 54. C. G. Pearse: Vocational education— its terminology, p. 582-86. 55. M. I. Flagg; 
The need in America for schools of applied art and the necessity in American industries for 
art leaders and designers of the highest grade, p. 589-94. 56. J. H. Haaren: The use of the 
fectory and office buildings in New York city for vocational education, p. 602-7. 57. W. M. 
Roberts: Trade agreements in industrial education of apprentices in Chicago, p. 607-14. 58. 
R. L. Cooley: The apprenticeship and continuation schools of Milwaukee, Wis., p. 614-18. 
59. Alice P. Norton: The renovation of the home thru home economics, p. 61&-22, 

Department of Music Education. 

60. P. W. Dykema: Community music— an opportunity, p. 627-33. 61. J. B. Cragun: A 
psychological analysis of the basis on which credit for the study of music is to be placed, p. 635-41, 
62. P. C. Lutkin: When music fulfills its highest function, p. 641-47. 

Department of Business Education. 

63. E. J. Glade: The present status of business education in the United States and some rec- 
ommendations, p. 652-56. 64. R. V. Coffey: Preparatory educational requirements for colle- 
giate training in business, with special reference to articulation between the high-school and 
college courses, p. 657-62. 



6 CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

Department of Child Hygiene. 

65. L. N. Hines: Some phases of the health supervision of schools, p. 663-68. 66. L. W. 
Rapeer: Industrial hygiene and vocational education, p. 668-72. 67. H. M. Bracken: The 
health administration of schools, p. 672-77. 68. S. S. Colvin: The attitude of the child in learn- 
ing, p. 677-82. 

Department of Physical Education. 

69. C. G. Rathman- Physical care and training of children in European schools, p. 684-91. 
70. Shall sex hyt,iene be taught in the public schools? [by] C. H. Keene, p. 695-97; [by] Mabel 
M. Wright, p. 697-701. 71. W. P. Hubert von Blijenburgh: Swedish gymnastics in American 
schools, p. 707-13. 

Department of Science Instruction, 

72. G. R. Twiss: The outlook for the application of the scientific method to the problems of 
science teaching, p. 723-28. 73. R. H. Whitbeck: Geography In the large high school, p. 732-37. 
74. W. J. Sutherland: Geography in village and rural schools, p. 738-42. 75. A. H. Saunders: 
Motion pictures as an aid to education, p. 743-45; Discussion, p. 746-48. 76. The tendencies 
and general status of courses in general science; [by] W. H. Timbie, p. 752-58; [byj F. D. Barber, 
p. 758-64. 

Department of School Administration. 

77. J. M. Ingold: The heating, lighting, and ventilating of school buildings, p. 779-83. 78. J. M. 
Malmin: A state teachers' employment agency under the supervision of the department of 
public instruction, p. 785-87. 79. E. T. Critchett: The success of a state teachers' employment 
agency law after two years, p. 787-89. 

Library Department. 

80. H. A. Wood: A standard foundation library for a rural school, p. 798-801. 81. Delia O. 
Ovitz: Training of rural teachers in the use of books, p. 802-7. 82. W. D. Johnston: The news- 
paper morgue, the library and the school, p. 810-13. 83. P. B. Wright: High-school branches 
of public libraries, p. 820-23. 84. Mary E. Hall: Report of committee on high-school libraries, 
p. 823-26. 

Department of Special Education. 

85. L. R. Alderman: An effort to make the school fit the needs of the exceptional child, 
p. 830-34. 86. J. W. Carr: A practical experiment with backward children, p. 844-48. 

Department of School Patrons. 

87. P. P. Claxton: Rural-school improvement, p. 854-55. 88. The responsibility of school 
patrons with regard to school questions — A. School health [by] Maggie W. Barry, p. 865-70; 
B. School revenue [by] F. G. Blair, p. 870-75. 

Department of Rural and Agricultural Education, 

89. H. H. Seerley: Rural demonstration schools and study-center work for rural teachers, 
p. 878-81. 90. The course in agriculture for training teachers in normal training high schools 
[by] J. h. McBrien, p. 890-95; [by] A. V. Storm, p. 895-98. 91. O. H. Benson: The federated 
boys' and girls' club work. p. 898-905. 92. J. W. Crabtree: What recognition should be given 
vacation and other out-of-school work? p. 905-7. 

157. National society for the study of education. Fourteenth yearbook. Part 

I. Minimum essentials in elementary-school subjects — standards and current 
practices. Chicago, 111., University of Chicago press [1915] 162 p. 8°. (S. 
Chester Parker, secretary, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111.) 

Contains: 1. H. B. Wilson, chairman: The minimum essentials in elementary-school subjects. 
Report of the committee on economy of time, p. 9-20. 2. H. W. Holmes: Time distributions 
by subjects and grades in representative cities, p. 21-27. 3. F. E. Thompson: Typical experi- 
ments for economizing time in elementary schools, p. 28-36. 4. R. G. Jones: Standard vocabu- 
lary, p. 37-43. 5. S.A.Courtis: Standards in rates of reading, p. 44-58. 6. W. S. Gray: Selected 
bibliography upon practical tests of reading ability, p. 59-60. 7. F.N. Freeman: Hand-writing, 
p. 61-77. 8. H. C. Pryor: Spelling, p. 78-89. 9. J. F. Hosic: The essentials of composition 
and grammar, p. 90-115. 10. W. A. Jessup: Current practices and standards in arithmetic, 
p. 116-30. 11. W. C. Bagley: The determination of minimum essentials in elementary geogra- 
phy and history, p. 131-46 12. J. F. Hosic: The essentials of literature, p. 147-52. 

158. Washington educational association. Addresses and proceedings of the 

twenty-eighth annual session, held in Tacoma, October 28-31, 1914. 227 p. 
8°. (O. C. Whitney, secretary, Tacoma, Wash.) 

Contains: C A. Prosser: The meaning of vocational education, p. 45-51. 2. C. A. Prosser: 
The democratizing of education, p. 61-68. 3. C. E. Rugh: The teacher's day of work and recro- 



CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 7 

ation, p. 58-61. 4. C. E. Rugh: The school has become a fundamental social institution, 
p. 62-66. 3. C. R. Frazier: Shall elementary schools be reorganized, p. 76-80 6. C. W. Hodge: 
School district reorganization, p. 81-86. 7. H. D. Johnson: English teachmg. Causes of the 
widespread dissatisfaction with the results obtained in high schools, p. 95-99. 8. S. E. Tift: 
The stx-and-six plan of grading, p. 102-9. 9. W. M. Kern: Thejunior-senior high school, p. 110-12. 

10. G.C.Howard: The two-period plan of study and recitation, p. 113-17; Discussion, p. 117-21. 

11. W. T. McDermott: The kind of art training needed in home economics department, 
p. 123-27. 12. S. L. Boothroyd: The necessity for science training in our public schools, with 
special reference to the first year of high school, p. 138-44. 13. E. L. Holton: Education for 
social and vocational efficiency, p. 153-55. 14. Stephen Dwan: Vocational guidance in its rela- 
tion to the commercial department, p. 161-64. 15. C. A. Prosser: The pre-vocational school, 
p. 167-79. 16. H. Z. Wilbur: Problems in English teaching, p. 186-92. 17. J. K. Hart: The 
j,eneral social life of the community, p. 194-99. 18. Curtis Mcrriman: Chapters from modem 
psychology of special importance to rural teachers, p. 200-206. 

159. West Virginia education association. Proceedings ... held in Morgantown, 

W. Va., June 17-19, 1914. Forty-fourth annual session. 250 p. 8°. (A. P. 
Morrison, secretary, Clarksburg, W. Va.) 

Contains: 1. O. G. Wilson: Present day movements m education and their possibilities for 
moral development, p. 23-28. 2. A. P. Bourland: The Southern movement for a free rural 
schod, p. 28-32. 3. M. P. Shawkey: Educational realizations in West Virgiaia, p. 32-40. 
4. Joseph Rosier: Present day needs in the city school curriculum, p. 40-47. 5. L. B. Hill: 
The training of elementary teachers, p. 53-59. 6. L. F. Hanmer: Recreation and the public 
schools, p. 59-64. 7. J.L.Henderson: Changes in the curriculum, p. 64-74. 8. Oliver ShurtlefE: 
The social center — how it may be realized. Some results. Recapitulation, p. 75-79. 9 L. L. 
Friend: How can our rujal high schools better meet the needs of rural communities? p. 109-16. 

10. C.W.Jackson: How can our schools improve the physical efficiency of the pupils? p. 116-21. 

11. G.H. Colebank: Modem tendencies in secondary school freedom and responsibility, p. 
131-36. 12. C. B. Clark: Greater efficiency in teaching in the elementary grades, p. 148-52. 13. 
Lou Shaffer: The moving picture problem, p. 152-58. 14. C. S. Lawson: Social center work, 
p. 164-70. 15. W. S. Deffenbaugh: Departmental teaching in the grammar school grades, p. 
170-80. 16. W. C. Morton: How to make a county superintendent's visit worth while, p. 209-14. 
17. Joseph Rosier: What are the weaknesses of normal school graduates as beginners, p. 222-28. 

EDUCATIONAL HISTORY. 

160. Bevan, J. O. University life in the olden time; monasticism and other essays. 

London, Chapman & Hall, ltd., 1914. 252 p. 12°. 

161. Birchenough, Charles. History of elementary education in England and 

Wales from 1800 to the present day. London, W. B. Clive, 1914. 394 p. 
illus. 16°. 

162. CorniU, Carl Heinricli. The culture of ancient Israel. Chicago [etc.] The 

Open court publishing co., 1914. 167 p. illus. 12°. 

Contents.— Rise of the people of Israel (tr. by A. H. Gunlogsen).— Moses, the founder of mono- 
theistic religion (tr. by Lydia G. Robinson).— The education of children in ancient Israel (tr. by 
W. H. Carruth).— Music in the Old Testament (tr. by Lydia G. Robinson).— The Psalms in 
imiversal literature (tr. by W. H. Carruth).— Index. 

163. Little, Andrew George, ed. Roger Bacon essays contributed by various 

writers on the occasion of the commemoration of the seventh centenary of 
his birth. Oxford, Clarendon press, 1914. 425 p. 8°. 

Contents. — 1. Introduction: On Roger Bacon's life and works, by A. G. Little. — 2. Der 
einfluss des Robert Grosseteste auf die wissenschaftliche richtimg des Roger Bacon, von Lud. 
wig Baur. — 3. La place de Roger Bacon parmi les philosophes du xnic si^cle, par Francois 
Picavet. — 4. Roger Bacon and the Latin Vulgate, by Cardinal Gasquet. — 5. Roger Bacon and 
philology by S. A. Hirsch.— 6. The place of Roger Bacon in the history of mathematics, by 
D. E. Smith. — 7. Roger Bacon und seine verdienste um die optik, von Eilhard Wiedemann. — 

8. Roger Bacon's lehre vender sinnlichen spezies und vom sehvorgange, von Sebastian Vogl. 

9. Roger Bacon's art des wissenschaftlichen arbeitens. von J. Wiirschmidt. — 10. Roger Bacon 
et I'horreur du vide, par Pierre Duhem.— 11. Roger Bacon: his relations to alchemy and chem- 
istry, by M. M. P. Muir. — 12. Roger Bacon and gunpowder, by H. W. L. Hime. — 13. Roger 
Bacon and medicine, by E. Withington. — 14. Roger Bacon in English literature, by J. E. San- 
dys. — Appendix: Roger Bacon's works, with references to the mss. and printed editions, by 
A. G. Little. 

82463°— 15 2 



8 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIOlSrS. 

CURRENT EDUCATIONAL CONDITIONS. 

164. Armani, Tarquinio. L'attivit^ legislativa di un pedagogiata (Liiigi Credaro). 

Ri\dsta pedagogica, 7:955-1026, December 1914. 

Reviewing the legislative work of tlie founder of the Rlvlsta pedagogica, the writer virtually 
presents a survey of the present status of education in Italy. 

165. Bourquin, Louis. L'^cole chinoiae. Revue p6dagogique, 65:261-76, Decem- 

ber 1914. 

An historical account of the rise of the new Chinese school and a characterization of the aims 
and methods of the new education la China. 

166. Brandon, Edgar E. Recent educational tendenciea in Argentina. Educa- 

tion, 35:362-65, February 1915. 

Dwells on the Argentine high school of to-day. Advocates democracy in secondary edaca- 
tion. 

167. General education board. An account of its activities, 1902-1914. New 

York, General education board, 1915. xv, 240 p. illus. maps. 8°. 

Explains la detail the liistory of the board, its relations to other boards and foundations, 
and its work for higher education and education in the South; resources and expenditures of 
the board; farm demonstration; aid in developing liigh schools in the South; and the policy of 
the board toward colleges and universities. Special chapters treat of medical education, rural 
education, and negro education. The cooperation of the board with State and Federal Gov- 
ernments is carefully described. The appendices Include the Act of Congress incorporating the 
General education board; letters of Mr. John D. Rockefeller in regard to the gifts; and contracts 
entered Into as a result of gifts to Washington university and Yale university. The report is 
abundantly illustrated. 

168. Larreinaga, M. La iD8trucci6n piibUca en Guatemala, su pasado, su presente 

y su organizaci6n. Revista de instrucci6n publica, 1:281-90, July-August 
1914. 

Prepared for inclusion in a book on Guatemala for the Panama-Pacific exposition. 

169. Mnbum, James B. Belgium and her elementary schools. Catholic educa- 

tional review, 9:97-112, February 1915. 

Belgium, in May last, passed a law " which marked the close of a long, and, to some extent, 
bitter struggle between the partisans of neutrality and secularism on the one side, and on the 
other of a Catholic government and its supporters who were anxious and determined to give 
all an equality of educational opportunity." The author explains how the need for the law 
came about, and how the problem was solved. 

170. Pearse, C. G. Cleveland and its schools. The city which forbids its teachers 

to join unions. American school, 1:7-11, January 1915. 
The scope, organization, and administration of the school system of Cleveland. 

171. Schwartz, E. Ist der krieg ein hindemis fiir die durchfiihrimg des neuen 

grundlehrplans vom achten dezember 1913? Padagogische zeitung, 43 : 819-21, 
November 26, 1914. 
Argues in favor of introducing the new curriculum in the schools of Berlin, despite the war. 

172. Situation de I'enseignement primaire au 1" d^cembre 1914. Revue p6da- 

gogique, 65:292-95, December 1914. 

A statement regarding the pupil enrollment in France in the normal, higher primary, and 
primary schools, and concerning the teaching persormel in these schools. 

PEDAGOGICS AND DIDACTICS. 

173. Adamson, Elizabeth Winifred. The school, the child and the teacher; 

suggestions for students in training, written with special reference to the 
work in South African schools. London, New York [etc.] Longmans, Green 
and CO., 1915. xii, 394 p. 12°. 
Contains bibliographies. 

174. Bowden, Witt. Education for the control and enjoyment of wealth. Educa- 

tional review, 49:147-67, February 1915. 

Discusses the development of direct vocational and semi-vocational training; the socializa- 
tion of the curriculum; cultural values of industrial education, etc. Eflorts of the state uni- 
versities to democratize higher education. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 9 

175. Brumbaugh, Martin G. What is thoroughness in education? Teacher, 19: 

16-18, 20, January 1915. 

"From Dr. Brumbaugh's Annual report for the year ending December 31, 1913. A study of 
certain educational fundamentals. It should be read and studied by every teacher." — Editor. 

176. Croiset, Alfred. La civilisation franQaise. Revue intemationale de I'en- 

eeignement, 34:248-55, November-December 1914. 

An address made at the opening of the University of Paris, November 5, 1914. 

A subtle distinction is drawn between French and German civilization. Of greatest interest 
to educators is, perhaps, the application of Pascal's distinction between "I'esprit de finesse" and 
"I'esprit g&metrique." 

177. Earhart, Lida B. Types of teaching. With an introduction by H. Suzzallo. 

Boston, New York [etc.] Houghton Mifflin company [1915] xvi, 277 p. 
12*. 

"A reinterpretation of teaching procedure, stated, as far as possible, in the current and familiar 
phraseology of ordinary teachers, yet taking into account the recent investigations of our ablest 
educational thinkers." 

178. Hillyer, Virgil M. Child training; a system of education for the child under 

school age. New York, The Century co., 1915. xxxix, 299 p. illus. 8°. 

179. Holmes, Edmond Gore Alexander. In defence of what might be. London, 

Constable & company ltd., 1914. vii, 376 p. 8°. 

180. Perry, John. The need of a science of education. School and society, 1: 

114-26, January 23, 1915. 

From the address of the president of the Educational science section of the British association 
for the advancement of science, Australia, 1914. 

Condemns the practice in British schools of requiring the classics rather than a good foundation 
in the English language. 

181. Perry, Ralph B. A defence of liberal education. Forum, 53: 213-22, Feb- 

ruary 1915. 

Says that the value of a liberal education can not be estimated by the standards of success or 
efficiency. To profit most by such an education one needs "freedom and elasticity of mind." 
" Liberal education ... is the sort of education that helps one to choose one's work freely 
rather than the kind of education that fits one for one's chosen work." 

182. Puncheon, Katharine E. The place of vocational and liberal studies in 1914. 

Education, 35: 341-49, February 1915. 

A plea for cultural studies, to supplement eye and hand training. Deprecates the substitu- 
tion of things for thoughts. Regards the exploitation of vocational training to the exclusion of 
every other kind of education as pernicious. 

183. Sanders, Frederic W. The organization of education. Education, 35: 371-77, 

February 1915. 

Discusses the normally developing child of average ability. Urges cooperation between 
school authorities and employers of labor in a given community, in reference to the question 
of expense. Says it would be possible "to relieve the parents (as well as the public) of all ex- 
pense for the support of their children after they had completed the secondary transition year 
(at about 14 years of age), and yet enable the latter to carry their secondary education as far as 
they might wish to carry it." 

Continued from December number. 

184. Schmidkunz, Hans. Padagogische phanomenologie. Lehrproben imd lehr- 

gange, 1915, 1. heft: 77-96. 

A somewhat difficult discussion which fruitfully correlates some philosophical doctrines and 
tendencies of the last two decades ("gegenstandstheorie" of A. v. Meinong; "Phanomeno- 
logie" of E. Husserl) with changes in pedagogical theory and practice. 

185. Schmidt, Max. Padagogische ideale der gegenwart. AUgemeine deutsche 

lehrerzeitung, 66: 429-32, December 4, 1914. 
Considers the community ideal, personality as the ideal, and the biological ideal. 

EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY; CHILD STUDY. 

186. Ayres, Leonard P. A scale for measuring the quality of handwriting of adults. 

New York city. Division of education, Russell Sage foimdation [1915] 11 p. 
fold, chart. 8°. (Pamphlet E138) 



10 CURKENT EDUCATION' AL PUBLICATIONS. 

187. Ballou, Frank W. The function of a department of educational investigation 

and measurement in a city school system. School and society, 1: 181-90, 
February 6, 1915. 

Read before Section L, American association for the advancement of science, Philadelphia, 
December, 1914. 

188. Beyer, Thomas P. The vocabulary of two years. Educational review, 49: 

191-203, February 1915. 

189. Hinckley, Alice C. The Binet tests applied to individuals over twelve years 

of age. Journal of educational psychology, 6: 43-58, January 1915. 

"The results of a study made at the New York clearing house for mental defectives. The 
author finds that the difficulties of the Binet scale do not increase regularly with each year, 
but that there are decided jumps at various points. There is an even greater irregularity in the 
difficulty of the individual tests within a given age-group." 

190. Minnick, J. H. A comparative study of the mathematical abilities of boys and 

girls. School review, 23: 73-84, February 1915. 

Investigations made at the Bloomington high school, Bloomington, Ind. Gives tables of 
statistics. Concludes that girls are the equals of boys although they "do not excel to the same 
degree in mathematics as they do in some of the other subjects, especially in language and 
English." Compares the mathematical work of boys and girls in college. 

191. Montori, Arturo. Tipos de apercepcion en un grupo de nifias cubanas. 

Habana, Imp. de "Cuba pedagogica," 1915. 164 p. illus. 8°. (Biblioteca 
de "Cuba pedagogica") 

192. Oberholtzer, E. E. Testing the efficiency in reading in the grades. Ele- 

mentary school journal, 15: 313-22, February 1915. 

Tests made in the Tulsa city schools, Oklahoma. Tabulations showing results. Says there 
seems to be "a definite correlation of the rate of reading among the grades, the rate of silent read- 
ing increasing most rapidly as the grade advanced. This is perhaps due largely to the child's 
being thrown more on his ovra responsibility; also to the fact that he realizes more fully the value 
of silent reading in giving him control over the printed page and in acquiring information." 

193. Pfister, O. Psychoanalysis and the study of children and youth. American 

journal of psychology, 26: 130-41, January 1915, 

Discusses "a method established by Prof. Sigmund Freud, of Vienna, which, without resort- 
ing to hypnosis, investigates the unconscious contents and motive forces of the mind. " 

194. Priifer, Johannes. Das "Archiv fiir erziehungserfahrungen " an der Hoch- 

schule fiir frauen in Leipzig. Zeitschrift firr kinderforschung, 19: 711-13, 
September 1914. 

The director of the Leipzig Hochschule fiir frauen describes the plans of an establishment 
connected with the institution which will collect, scientifically, data on pedagogical e.xperience 
with individual children. The design is "psychographic," that is, determined by the pro- 
cedures of individual or diflerentialpyschology. 

195. Rugg, Harold Ordway. A scale for measuring free-hand lettering. Journal of 

educational psychology, 6:25-42, January 1915. 

"Describes the method of constructing the scale, presents the scale itself, and gives an account 
of its use by eight teachers and over three hundred students of mechanical drawmg." 

196. Starch, Daniel. The measurement of efficiency in reading. Journal of educa- 

tional psychology, 6: 1-24, January 1915. 

"The author presents a graded series of samples for testing the silent reading of elementary 
school children, discusses the critical points in scoring the rate of reading and the amount repro- 
duced, and gives the results of tests in fifteen schools. Norms of speed and comprehension are 
worked out for the diSerent grades, and illustrati^'e samples of deviation from these norms 
are presented. " 

197. Thorndike, Edward Ii. Teachers' estimates of the quality of specimens of 

handwriting. New York city, Teachers college, Columbia university, 1914. 
13 p. fold, facsims., fold, tables. 8°. (Teachers college record. " Vol. XV, 
no. 5) 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 11 

198. Wilker, KarL Kindes- und jugendpsychologie, jugendpflege und jugend- 

fursorge. Deutsche schule, 18: 679-83, 742-46, October-November 1914. 

A review of recent writings. The second article deals with " Jugendfiirsorge und jugendpflege" 
only. Together, the two articles constitute an informing survey of the "Jugcndbewegung" 
and of the new emphasis upon pedagogy " vom kinde aus." 

SPECIAL METHODS OF INSTRUCTION. 

199. Painter, George S. The psychology of \dsual instruction. American educa- 

tion, 18:332-38, February 1915. 

200. Pineo, J. Franklin. The educational value of the motion picture. Associa- 

tion seminar, 23: 129-46, January 1915. 
To be continued. 

201. Willard, Frederic R. The motion-picture theater and the child. Education, 

35:350-61, February 1915. 

Gives the result of personal observation "gained through daily attendance at the motion- 
picture theater for a number of weeks, supplemented by the testimony of about 3,700 boys and 
girls in the schools of Springfield, Mass., Providence, R. I., and Lynn, Mass." 

SPECIAL SUBJECTS OF CURRICULUM. 

202. American psychological association. Report of the Committee on the 

academic status of psychology. Printed by the Committee, December 1914. 

27 p. 8°. 

203. [B., W. C] School essays in the Victorian age. Journal of education (London) 

47: 61-63, January 1915. (Supplement) 
Says that essay writing is an absolute waste of time unless it is preceded by real instruction. 

204. Baumann, Friedrich. Psychologic des sprachimterrichts. Padagogisches 

archiv, 56:616-30, heft 11, 1914. 

A rather caustic discussion of a book by a Danish scholar (Flagstad's ' ' Psychologic der sprach 
padagogilc." Leipzig, B. G. Teubner, 1913). 

205. Bolenius, Emma Miller. Literature for boys and girls. VI. The drama. 

Popular educator, 32: 320-23, February 1915. 

After treating briefly the origin and teclmique of the drama, the author gives suggestions for 
bringing Shakespeare to the children and for composition exercises in the drama. 

206. BreniLan, George A. Nature-study at the Van Vlissingen school. Nature- 

study review, 11: 12-25, January 1915. 
A part of this article first appeared in the Educational bi-monthly. 

207. Carmichael, R. D. Mathematics and life — the vitalizing of secondary mathe- 

matics. School science and mathematics, 15: 105-15, February 1915. 

Discussion by W. T. Stratton, p. ll.'>-20. 

An address delivered to the Kansas association of mathematics teachers at Topeka on Novem- 
ber 14, 1914. 

208. Classics versus modem languages. Journal of education (London) 47: 29-32, 

January 1915. 

Contends that the knowledge of a foreign language is essential for a complete liberal education. 
Says that il only one language is taught, French has the prior claim. Latin should come second. 
For the third language Greek and German should be offered as alternatives, but Greek should 
not be compulsory. 

209. Comstock, Anna Botsford. The growth and influence of the nature-study 

idea. Nature-study review, 11: 5-11, January 1915. 

Extract from the address of the retiring president of the American nature-study society, deliv- 
ered at Philadelphia, December 30, 1914. 

210. Coulter, John M. The mission of science in education. School science and 

mathematics, 15: 93-100, February 1915. 

Read before the annual conference of high school teachers, University of Illinois, November 20, 
1914. 



12 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

211. Daim, George J. The child's interest in geography. American education, 18: 

340-45, February 1915. 

The following question was put to a class of children, "What do you like best of all in geog- 
raphy, and why? " The answers received fairly "establish the fact that the interest in people, 
their habits, customs, and dress is strong and persistent in all of the grades of the elementary 
schools." 

212. "Eggax, W. D. Mathematics and science as part of a Liberal education. School 

world (London) 17: 17-21, January 1915. 

A plea for more mathematics in the curriculum; and some definite training in science In the 
later stages of a boy's career. 

213. Finley, John H. The training of modem language teachers. American edu- 

cation, 18: 275-78, January 1915. 

Address before the New York state teachers' association, Albany, N. Y., November 24, 1914. 

The subject is discussed under two main divisions: (1) Reasonable requirements of tr ainin g of 
modem language teachers, and (2) Suitable means for securing such training. 

214. Fitz-gerald, Johxi D. Languages and the college-preparatory course. Educa- 

tional review, 49: 168-90, February 1915. 

Advantages that would result if a seven-year, or even a six-year, high school curriculum were 
generally adopted. Gives curricula of Austrian and German schools, etc. 

215. Garoinans, Harold W. The pupil who fails in secondary school English; how 

to teach him. Education, 35: 378-84, February 1915. 

216. G-errish, Carolyn M. Secondary school composition. Educational review, 

49: 126-35, February 1915. 

Writer states that the principal obstacles to the proper accomplishment of the purposes of 
composition are: "(1) A more or less prevalent belief in the futility of trying to concentrate on 
content per se; (2) lack of time. (3) lack of equipment." 

217. Gruenwald, Benjamin C. Thought ia science and in science teaching. Popu- 

lar science monthly, 86: 164-73, February 1915. 

A plea for the humanizing of science teaching by giving up "the attempt to make scientists out 
of high-school students." Should make children appreciate the service and method of science. 

218. Hayden, Philip C. The high school orchestra and its relation to the community. 

School music, 16: 16, 19-22, January-February 1915. 

An address delivered before the teachers and parents association in Keokuk, Iowa. 

This "address may give some hints to those who are interested in the organization and devel- 
opment of a high school orchestra." 

219. Hayward, Frank Herbert. The lesson in appreciation; an essay on the peda- 

gogics of beauty. New York, The Macmillan company, 1915. xv, 234 p, 

12°. 

This work deals with the "practical" problem of aesthetic education in a "practical" way, 
and also presents theory when theory will enlighten the practice. 

220. Hodge, Clinton F. Nature study. Catholic educational review, 9: 145-52, 

February 1915. 
These excerpts are taken from an address delivered before the Wisconsin teachers' association. 

221. Kirtland, John C. High school Latin and the college-entrance requirements. 

Classical journal, 10: 227-32, February 1915. 

Says there is imperative need of reform in the work of the first two years of the course. "It 
is now so hurried that it loses much of its immediate value and affords a poor preparation for 
fiirther study." 

222. Leavitt, Frank M. and Hufif, L. Grace. Physiology and hygiene for pre- 

vocational boys. Elementary school journal, 15: 301-12, February 1915. 

Advances reasons for preceding the course in hygiene by "an elementary and eminently 
practical study of anatomy and the functions of the various organs of the body." 

223. Lightley, Edmund. The place of the textbook in mathematical teaching. 

School world (London) 17: 6-9, January 1915. 

Advocates the use of the textbook, but it should be supplemented by oral and blackboard 
explanation. Deprecates a too rigid adherence to textbook methods. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 13 

224. National education association. Preliminary report of the biology eub- 

committee (on reorganization of secondary education) of the National edu- 
cation association. School science and mathematics, 15: 44-53, January 
1915. 
Separately reprinted. 

225. Niichter, Fr. Uber sprachlehrplane der amerikanischen volksschulen. All- 

gemeine deutsche lehrerzeitung, 66: 417-20, November 20, 1914. 

An account and criticism of American teaching of the mother tongue as represented in the 
courses of study of New York city, New York state, Boston, Buflalo, Cleveland, Milwaukee, 
and Wisconsin. 

226. Slutz, Fraik D. A chat about the teaching of literature. Middle-west school 

review, 7: 5-7, February 1915. 

227. Pierce, Mary D. The hidebound text-book as a handicap to teaching Eng- 

lish in the grades. Virginia journal of education, 8: 307-10, February 1915. 
Suggests some of the desirable qualities which an elementary text in English should possess. 

228. Stackel, Paul Gustav. Die mathematische ausbildung der architekten, 

chemiker und iugenieure an den deutschen technischen hochschulen. Leip- 
zig und Berlin, B. G. Teubner, 1915. 198 p. 4°. (Abhandlungen liber 
den mathematischen unterricht in Deutschland veranlasst durch die Inter- 
nationale mathematische unterrichtskommisaion, hrsg. von F. Klein, bd. 
IV, hft. 9) 

229. Swift, H. T. Illinois state spelling contest. School news and practical edu- 

cator, 28: 277-79, February 1915. 
Second annual state spelling contest held December 29, 1914. Gives a list of the words used. 

230. Sykes, Mabel. The mathematics survey of the Chicago school system. School 

science and mathematics, 15: 120-26, February 1915. 

Report of the Mathematics committee appointed to investigate the teaching of mathematics 
in elementary and secondary schools of Chicago. The Committee found the teaching of arith- 
metic in elementary schools good, but was not so well pleased with the work in the high schools. 

231. Taylor, E. H. The teaching of ma, hematics in the continuation schools of 

Germany. School and society, 1: 208-13, February 6, 1915. 

"This paper is based upon observations made in visiting conttauation schools in Hamburg, 
Berlin, Halle, Munich, Karlsruhe, Heidelberg, Mannheim, and Frankfort-on-the-Main." 

232. Trost, W. Die mathematischen facher an den niederen gewerblichen lehr- 

anstalten in Deutschland. Leipzig imd Berlin, B. G. Teubner, 1914. 150 p. 
illus. 8°. (Abhandlungen iiber den mathematischen unterricht in Deutsch- 
land veranlasst durch die Internationale mathematische imterrichtskom- 
mission, hrsg. von F. Klein, bd. IV, hft. 5) 

233. Wilcox, W. H. What is the matter with high school composition? Atlantic 

educational journal, 10: 192-94, January 1915. 

Discusses first some of the recent criticisms against high school English. Thinks that the 
difficulty is that the pupils need practice. 

234. Wngus, James A. The teaching of history in the elementary school. Edu- 

cational review, 49: 136-46, February 1915. 

Says that no attempt should be made "to fill the minds of the pupils with meaningless state- 
ments of facts and dates, either systematically arranged and tabulated, or disconnected and 
unassociated." Children should be impressed with the fact that history is "a present reality 
and not merely a matter of past times." 

235. Williams, Sherman. Local history. School bulletin, 41: 111-13, February 

1915. 
Address delivered at the meeting of Associated academic principals, December 1914. 



14 CURKENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

KINDERGARTEN AND PRIMARY SCHOOL. 

236. Childe, Elizabeth. Teaching concentration. Outlook, 109: 155-59, January 

20, 1915. 

Discusses the proper preparation for the kindergarten. Impressing the child with habits of 
self-control and interest. 

237. Grupe, Mary A. The efficiency of the kindergarten as measured by the prog- 

ress of the children through the grades. Northwest journal of education, 
26: 278-81, February 1915. 

238. Itschner, Hermann. Maria Montessori. Padagogische blatter, 43: 464-73, 10. 

heft, 1914. 

Analyzes the relation of Madame Montessori's work to the principles of Frobel and the 
"dreams" (self-styled) of Ellen Key. Objects to the undervaluation of children's fancy in her 
system. 

239. Palmer, LueUa A. Montessori suggestions for kindergartners. Kindergarten 

review, 25: 349-53, February 1915. 

RURAL EDUCATION. 

240. Coffman, Lotus D. Rural school supervision. Moderator-topics, 35: 447-48, 

467-69, 487-88, February 11, 18, 25, 1915. 
An address given before the Michigan state teachers' association. 

241. Cooper, Elizabeth. The country school teacher. Educational foundations, 

26: 347-51, February 1915. 

242. Crawshaw, F. D. and Yocum, W. K. Manual arts problems of the rural 

school. Rural school teacher, 1: 13-14, February 1915. 
First of a series of articles on introducing manual arts into the rural schools. 

243. Cubberley, EUwood P. and EUiott, Edward C. Rural-school administration. 

School and society, 1: 154-61, January 30, 1915. 

Treats of the reorganization of rural schools, advocating the county-unit system of administra- 
tion. 

244. Field, Jessie. College women and country leadership. New York city. 

National board of the Young women's Christian associations of the United 
States of America [1915] 59 p. 8°. 
Topics for study and discussion, and a suggested program for a meeting, follow each chapter. 

245. Kennedy, Joseph. Rural life and the rural school. New York [etc.] Ameri- 

can book company [1915]. 189 p. illus. 12°. 

Writer says that if rural problems are to be solved, true conceptions of values must be estab- 
lished in the social mmd, with reference to personality of the teacher, standards for teaching, 
supervision, school equipment, salary, etc. The present laissez-faire spirit, attitude, and 
methods of American rural life and rural education must be overcome. 

246. Lane, C. H. and Miller, E. A. Correlating agriculture with the public-school 

subjects in the Southern states. Contribution from the Office of experiment 
stations. January 21, 1915. Washington, Government printing office, 1915. 
41 p. 9 figs. 8°. (U. S. Department of agriculture. Bulletin no. 132.) 
Prepared especially for the use of rural school teachers in the Southern states. 

247. Pennsylvania state educational association. Committee on rural 

schools. Report on rural schools. Harrisburg, Pa., December 29, 1914. 

103 p. 8°. 
Chairman of Committee: Nathan C. Schaeffer. 

248. Rapeer, Louis W. Standardization of the rural school plant. School and 

society, 1: 217-26, February 13, 1915. 

Writer believes in the following essentials of rural education: (1) A permanent rural-life 
leader who can make a specialty of community education in a single district as a life work. (2) 
Schooling that is directly and immediately related to country life and its needs. (3) Methods 
of education in accord with the nature of the learning process in children and youth. 



CUEEENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 15 

249. The rural world at play. Playground, 8: 379-93, February 1915. 

250. Sears, J. B. The problem for the rural school. Popular science monthly, 

86: 174-79, February 1915. 

The problem is the problem of the rural people. Says that the rural school must accept its 
share in large social, economic, and intellectual responsibilities. 

SECONDARY EDUCATION. 

251. Bolenius, Emma Miller. A "new idea" high school. Popular educator, 

32: 326-29, February 1915. 

Treats of the various activities of the Central commercial and manual training high school in 
Newark, N. J., showing how it is solving the problem of the balanced education. 

252. Butterworth, Julian. E, An evaluation of methods for providing free high 

school tuition. School review, 23: 85-96, February 1915. 

Gives an analysis and comparison of existing free tuition laws and their results. Says that 
some form of cooperation between the state and the local unit is the preferable one. 

253. Cook, William. A. Equalization of privileges in county high schools. Colo- 

rado school journal, 30: 7-9, January 1915. 
Tells of the branch high schools established in Colorado. 

254. Downing, EDiot R. The scientific trend in secondary schools. Science, 

41: 232-35, February 12, 1915. 

Statistical graphs based on data contained in the report of the Commissioner of education 
1910; Ohio school report, 1913, etc. 

255. McCormick, B. E. A plea for summer sessions in the high school. Wisconsin 

journal of education, 47: 7-9, January 1915 

The author believes that there is a demand for summer sessions in the high school, as there 
are many in every high school who would attend in order to shorten the high school period. 
This would result in less "dropping out" and probably larger graduating classes. 

256. McKenny, Charles. The purpose of the high school. American schoolmaster, 

8: 10-16, January 1915. 
Address delivered before the Michigan schoolmasters' club, at Ann Arbor, Mich., April 3, 1914, 

257. Pray, W. J, A study of the first class high schools of Missouri. Missouri school 

journal, 32: 56-58, February 1915. 

A study of the high schools of Missouri from 1905 to 1913, showing what has been the trend of 
the individual courses in the curriculum during this time. Agriculture alone, of all the generally 
recognized high school sciences, shows any gain in its percentage enrollment. 

TEACHERS: TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL STATUS. 

258. Beale, R. L. The selection of the teacher. Virginia journal of education, 

8: 292-96, February 1915. 

The author thinks that the board should establish a minimum standard for the entire teaching 
force, that it is dangjrous to delay selection until the best teachers are no longer available, that 
teachers should be chosen with an eye to permanence and should not be chosen without a per- 
sonal interview, and lastly, that it is worth while to consider In the selection of a teacher some 
plan by which she may he held. 

259. Harris, H. S. The spirit of the teacher. Public schools, 1: 5-6, February 1915. 

The writer thinks that the spirit of the teacher is the all-important factor in a successful school. 
Shows how the spii'it of the teacher manifests itself in the intellectual attitude of the pupils, in 
the pupUs' view of life, the attitude of the pupil in his daily work, etc. 

260. Marrs, S. M. N. Teacher training in high schools. Texas school journal, 32: 

20-21, February 1915. 

This is the first article of a series dealing with teacher-training in our high schools. Mr. Marrs 
and several others will write the special articles and the last one will be a symposium on the 
subject. Every man will be free to say what he wants to say "and the reader can take his 
choice."— Editor. 

261. Slutz, Frank D. The teacher as an artist for life's sake. Colorado school jour- 

nal, 30: 4-7, January 1915. 
Au address before the Colorado teachers' association, December 31, 1914. 



16 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

262. The Wisconsin survey of the state normal schools. American school, 1: 13-16, 

January 1915. 

"Wisconsin has just completed a two year study of her normal school system, the most thor- 
ough and comprehensive which has ever been made." This article gives the findings and the 
recommendations. 

fflGHER EDUCATION. 

263. Benjamin, C. H. Fraternity grades at Pmrdue university. Science, n. s., 

41: 135-38, January 22, 1915. 

Gives statistics of fraternity men in student activities. Writer says: "On the whole, the 
fraternity man is one who is content with average rank and is ambitious for athletic, social, or 
political, rather than scholastic honors." 

264. Dabney, Charles W. The movement for the modern city university in Ger- 

many. School and society, 1: 150-54, January 30, 1915. 
The establishment of the municipal university of Frankfurt-on-Main. 

265. Dewey, John. The American association of university professors — ^introduc- 

tory address. Science, 41: 147-51, January 29, 1915. 

A plea for "a more intense consciousness of our common vocation, our common object and 
common destiny; and a more resolute desire to apply the methods of science, methods of 
inquiry, and publicity, to our work of teaching." 

266. Foster, WiUiam T. Reed college. School re\iew, 23: 97-104, February 1915. 

Discusses the activities of Keed college, Portland, Oreg. Extension work, etc. 

267. Kirkpatrick, Edwin A. Who should go to college. Is it possible to arrive at 

standards by which to determine the selection of those who for the sake of 
society should receive higher education? Religious education, 10: 32-39, 
February 1915. 

In the writer's judgment standards will never be found to determine who should receive higher 
education. He thinks that teachers and psychologists in cooperation can work out standard 
tests that would be of help in enabling a youth to tell whether he is ready for advanced work. 

268. Lefevre, Arthur. The organization and administration of a state's institu- 

tions of higher education. Austin, Texas, Von Boeckmann-Jonesco., print- 
ers, 1914. 524 p. 8°. 

By the sometime secretary for research of Organization for the enlargement by the state of 
Texas of its institutions of higher education. 

269. Merrill, Robert V. Some present aspects of foreign university life. Classical 

journal, 10: 223-26, February 1915. 
Conditions existing in English universities. 

270. Royce, Josiah. The Carnegie foimdation for the advancement of teaching and 

the case of Middlebury college. School and society, 1: 145-50, January 30, 

1915. 

Paper presented at the meeting for organization of the Association of American university 
professors. New York, January 2, 1915. 

271. Stevenson, John J. Economic conditions of the college staff. Religious 

education, 10: 27-32, February 1915. 

272. Strong, Frank. The opportunity of American universities. School and 

society, 1:109-14, January 23, 1915. 

Discusses the opportimity of American universities to become the center of the intellectual 
life of the next generation on account of the European war. 

273. Sully, James. Gottingen in the sixties. Hibbert journal, 13: 284-99, January 

1915. 
Character study of university life at Gottingen, Germany. 

274. Swaen, A. Le role des universit^s et les universit^s beiges. Revue Interna- 

tionale de I'enseignement, 34: 264-75, November-December 1914. 

The author, who is rector of the university of Lidge, discusses the requirement and proposals 
for a stronger development of pure science in Belgian universities. Pleads for reformation of 
the legal status of the two state universities, a privilege already granted to the universities of 
Louvain and Brussels. 



CUKRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 17 

275. Lesuniversitesfrangaisesauxuniversit^sdespaysneutres. Revue Internationale 

de renseignement, 34: 245-47, November-December 1914. 

Gives the point of view of PYench university men regarding the European contest. For a 
statement of the German side, see item 1680 in this record for December 1914. 

276. Woodbridge, Frederick J. E, The university aad the public. Educational 

review, 49: 109-25, February 1915. 

Writer contends that "the problem of civilization, the problem of self-government, the prob- 
lem of democracy, is ultimately the problem of the university and the public." 

SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION. 

277. Bagley, W. C. Professor Judd's criticisms of the eight-year elementary cur- 

riculum. School and home education, 34: 212-16, February 1915. 

Discusses the article by Professor Judd on the Junior high school which appeared in the School 
review for January 1915. 

278. CofEman, Lotus D. Supervision: its nature and scope. School and home 

education, 34: 227-35, February 1915. 
Read before the City superintendents' association of Illinois in Urbana, November 19, 1914. 

279. Evans, C. E. Unsettled educational problems. Texas school journal, 32: 

7-9, November 1914. 
National functions in education. 

280. Harris, James H. The six-and-six plan. Journal of education, 81: 89-91, 102- 

103, January 28, 1915. 
An abstract of a paper read at the Iowa state teachers' association. 
This abstract contains a summary of the arguments given for and against the six-and-six plan. 

281. Kinkead, R. G. The Columbus idea of the six-and-six plan. Ohio teacher, 35: 

248-49, January 1915. 

282. State aid: a study by the state department. Texaa school journal, 32: 7-9, 

February 1915. 

A questionnaire relative to the problem of state aid was sent to the state superintendent of 
public instruction in each state and in the colonies. This is a summary of the answers received. 

283. Stewart, RoUand Maclaren. Co-operative methods in the development of 

school support in the United States. Iowa City, Iowa [Chesnutt printing 
CO.] 1914. 162 p. fold, tables. 8°. ([State University of Iowa] Mono- 
graph in education.) 

A study of methods of supporting schools— in the colonies, by the federal government, by the 
states, a statistical study of support for 22 years, and some recent tendencies. 

284. Trusler, Harry R. Illegal expenditures of school money. American school 

board journal, 50: 19-20, 78, February 1915. 

285. Wallace, B. Holmes. The adaptation of the Gary plan at Swarthmore, Pa. 

American school board journal, 50: 32, February 1915. 

In conclusion the writer says that "after two years' trial, all connected with it feel that the 
Swarthmore adaptation of the Gary idea is a success and that we have a more efficient, better 
balanced school than would have been possible under the old plan." 

SCHOOL MANAGEMENT. 

286. Anthony, Hettie M. Credit for home work. Journal of home economics, 

7: 66-70, February 1915. 

Gives some plans worked out by different schools for giving credit for home work. 

287. Brown, J. Stanley. Supervised study in high school. School and home edu- 

cation, 34: 207-12, February 1915. 
Read at Illinois schoolmasters club, October 24, 1914. 



18 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

288. Harris, James H. An inquiry into the departmental system. Elementary 

school journal, 15: 323-30, February 1915. 

Describes the attitude of the pupils of the 7th and Sth grades of the schools of Dubuque, Iowa, 
"toward the departmental system which has been in operation in these grades for about three 
years." 

The evidence and experience of the pupils confirm the advantages theoretically predicated 
by schoolmen for the departmental system. 

289. Richardson, W. H. The importance of discipline in our school system. Ohio 

educational monthly, 64: 52-56, February 1915. 

290. Rogers, RosweU W. The difficulties in transition from the elementary school 

to the high school. Mississippi educational advance, 4 : 13-16, February 1915. 
Considers some of the principal causes of the difficulties of transition and gives a few of the 
possible remedies. 

291. Runkle, Erwin W. Time economy in courses of study. Pennsylvania school 

journal, 63: 303-306, January 1915. 

The writer says that some of the means of economy are first, elimination of subjects or parts 
of subjects, simplifying the courses of study, second, by m'ore efflcient instruction, third, by 
better supervision, and fourth, by coordination of schools and courses so as to eliminate needless 
duplication. He gives also what seems to him to be some actual readjustments in the college 
to meet the demands of economy of time. 

292. Shreves, Rolland Merritt. Supervised study: its purpose, plan and results. 

Wyoming school journal, 11: 142-46, January 1915. 

293. Ziertmann, Paul, tjber individuelle behandlung von schiilern, einige falle 

aus der erfahrung. Padagogisches archiv, 56: 549-64, heft 10, 1914. 

Contents.— L Sittliche und arztliche beurteilung. II. Einmerkwiirdiger fall von "einsei- 
tiger begabung " f A case of attempted vocational guidance.] 

SCHOOL ARCHITECTURE. 

294. ConweU, li. R. R. School insurance. Teaching, 1: 13-15, January 15, 1915. 

295. Study, Harry P. The school janitor. Teaching, 1: 8-11, January 15, 1915. 

296. Winslow, C.-E. A. The ventilation and sanitation of school houses. School 

and society, 1: 190-96, February 6, 1915. 

Address before the New Jersey sanitary association, Lakewood, N. J., December 11, 1914. 

SCHOOL HYGIENE AND SANITATION. 

297. Arnold, Felix. Obstructed breathing and memory. Psychological clinic, 8: 

234-46, January 15, 1915. 

Gives the results of a series of tests, showing that in aU cases of obstructed breathing from 
whatever source, there will be a loss in the results of memorizing verbal matter of from 10 to 30 
per cent. 

298. Burgerstein, Leo. School hygiene; tr. by Beatrice L. Stevenson and Anna 

L. von der Osten. New York, F. A. Stokes company [1915] xix, 188 p. 
illus. 12°. 

299. Foster, Wilfred L. Improvement of dental hygiene in the high school, with 

relation to efficiency. Psychological clinic, 8: 230-33, January 15, 1915. 
Tells of the improvement of dental hygiene in one of the high schools of New York city. 

300. Hedlund, C. Nath. Sverges forsta friluftsskola oppnad i Stockholm. Svensk 

lararetidning, 33: 965-66, November 18, 1914. 

An account of the steps which led to the opening of the first Swedish open air school in Stock- 
holm. 

301. Reed, Mrs. F. A. Speech impediments and their correction in the public 

schools of Detroit. Volta review, 17: 7-8, January 1915. 

Investigations show that speech impediments almost invariably Increase in severity as soon 
as the child enters school. During the year 1914, 483 children were examined. Work accom- 
plished. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 19 

302. Roach, Walter W. Open air school work in American cities. School progress, 

5: 9-13, January 1915. 
A collection of short reports from a number of cities in the United States. 

PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

303. Bowen, Wilbur P. The ethics of football. American schoolmaster, 8: 1-9, 

January 1915. 

304. Fisher, George J. Present-day tendencies in physical education. Physical 

training, 12: 74-82, January 1915. 

The author is of the opinion that in many centers the attemp' to make the physical program 
informal has become extreme and the more orthodox and formal types of exercise have been 
neglected, often to the serious weakening of the day's order. He sent out questionnaires to a 
selected number of individuals to find out how they felt about it. The answers are given here. 

305. Guilbert, E. F. Public school gymnasiums. American city, 12: 101-4, 

February 1915. 

Discusses the design and construction of apparatus rooms, dressing rooms, lockers, showers, 
etc. Illustrated. 

306. KauU, Lavinia Hendey. Physical education complete for schools and play- 

grounds. [Sacramento, Cal., New publishing company, 1915] 272 p. incl. 
front., illus. 8°. 

307. Koch, E. B. Swimming in the elementary schools. American physical edu- 

cation review, 20: 15-21, January 1915. 

SOCIAL ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

308. Chambers, W. G. Co-operation in education. Pittsburgh school bulletin, 8: 

2115-19, January 1915. 

Address delivered at the Pennsylvania state educational association, December 31, 1914. 

Discusses the cooperation of the school with the church, business, the press, the home, and 
with libraries, hospitals, social settlements, and other institutions. 

309. Mewius, WaUy. Aus der arbeit des Charlottenburger siedlungsheimes. 

Monatshefte der Comenius-gesellschaft fiir volkserziehimg, 22 (n. f. 6): 
132-36, December 1914. 

310. Roberts, Edward D. The Cincinnati schools. American school board journal, 

50: 11-13, 78-79, February 1915. 
What co-operation has done for the schools of Cincinnati. 

311. Saupe, — -. Bericht iiber den allgemeinen fiirsorge-erziehungstag vom 

15.-17. juni in Halle a. S. Zeitschrift fiir kinderforschung, 19: 714-22, Sep- 
tember 1914. 

An iccount of the proceedings of the joint sessions of the first Deutsche kinderschutztag and 
of the AUgemeine fiirsorge-erziehungstag. 

RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 

312. Eby, Frederick. A new plan for religious education. Bulletin of the Board of 

education of the Methodist Episcopal church, South, 4: 198-201, February 
1915. 

A plan of cooperation between the church and public schools for giving Bible instruction 
to pupils of the public schools. 

313. Hogan, W. E. Plans for religious education of pupils in state schools. Bulletin 

of the Board of education of the Methodist Episcopal church, South, 4: 202-9, 
February 1915. 

Treats of the nature and successof the followingplansofreligious instruction in publicschoo Is: 
North Dakota plan, Colorado plan, Gary plan, New York city plan, and the Pennsylvania plan. 

314. Horn, P. W. The educational value of the old time religion. Texas school 

journal, 32: 15-16, 43-45, February 1915. 

The writer is skeptical as to the educational value of the substitutes that are being suggested 
for the personal type of religion. 



20 CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

315. Kretzmann, Paul E. Lutheran religious education. Provision for religious 

education in the evangelical Lutheran church of the United States. Reli- 
gious education, 10: 5-15, February 1915. 

The subject is discussed under the following headings: The parochial school, The Christen- 
lehre, Sunday schools, Saturday and summer schools, and Higher education. 

316. KuykendaU, J. W. Religious education by chiu-ch and school. Arkansas 

teacher, 3: 1-3, February 1915. 

After discussing the relative duty of the church and the school in the religious and moral 
education of the child, the writer explains the Colorado plan of credit for Bible study. 

317. Schmidt, Hugo. Die geistigen grundlagen der religionslosen sittlichkeit. 

Zeitschrift fixr philosophie und padagogik, 21: 513-32, September 1914. 

Acriticism of Ferdinand Buisson'sconceptionof an"(5colelaiique." (SeeL':^coleetlanation. 
In L'Annde pddagogique. Deuxi^me ann^e— 1912, p. 1-16.) 

MANUAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING. 

318. Bagley, W. C. The unit versus the dual system of vocational education. Edu- 

cational bi-monthly, 9: 191-99, February 1915. 

An address before the Illinois state teachers' association, November 29, 1914. 

The writer thinks that a separate system of vocational schools is not only unnecessary, but 
fraught with the greatest danger to our national ideals and institutions. 

319. Cushman, Lillian S. A test of efficiency for the industrial arts. Industrial- 

arts magazine, 3: 49-51, February 1915. 

320. Gompers, Samuel. Industrial education and the American federation of 

labor. Manual training and vocational education, 16: 329-39, February 1915. 

Address delivered at the eighth annual convention of the National society for the promotion 
of industrial education, December 10, 1914, at Richmond, Va. 

This address is " looked upon as a definite and oflHcial statement on the attitude of labor toward 
several of the most important issues now before the leaders in industrial education." 

321. Harlan, Charles L. Manual arts in the grades. Vocationist, 3: 3-9, December 

1914. 
The present status of the subject as shown by an examination of one hundred courses of study. 

322. Usherwood, T. S. Manual training as an introduction to experimental work. 

School world (London) 17: 9-12, January 1915. 

Says that "the unscientific nation is doomed to extinction: its competition is negligible ... An 
integral part of the machinery of science in education is the manual training school. Through 
handiwork and in the workshop scientific cm-iosity is most naturally aroused." 

323. Williams, William E. Hope for the ninety and three. Pearson's magazine, 

33: 298-304, February 1915. 
Describes the activities of the People's college, Fort Scott, Kansas. 

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE. 

324. Davis, Anne S. Report of the Biu-eau of vocational supervision from April 

1 to October 1, 1914. Educational bi-monthly, 9: 200-207, February 1915. 
Gives statistics showing the number of children dealt with through the Chicago Bureau, also 
information concerning the placement of children and " follow-up " work. 

325. Thompson, Frank V, Vocational guidance in Boston. School review, 23: 

105-12, February 1915. 

Discusses among other matters the relation of vocational guidance to continuation schools; 
work of the Placement bureau of Boston; duties of the vocational counselor, etc. 

HOME ECONOMICS. 

326. Goodsell, WiUystine. Education in problems of family life. Journal of home 

economics, 7: 59-62, February 1915. 

Urges a thorough and impartial course on the development of domestic institutions and laws. 
Courses recommended in sex problems, marriage, and family life in all their aspects. 



CURRENT EDUCATIOlSrAL PUBLICATIONS. 21 

327. Kittredge, Mabel Hyde. The housekeeping centers of New York. Journal 

of home economics, 7: 63-65, February 1915: 

A short history or the model flat or housekeeping center of New York and the reason for its 
growth. 

PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION. 

328. Bradford, Edward H. The higher education in surgery. New England medi- 

cal gazette, 50: 58-64, February 1915. 
Work of the American college of surgeons. 

329. Brown, Elmer EUsworth. "Hoar ye the word of the Lord." Methodist 

review (New York) 97: 60-67, January-February 1915. 

An address at Drew theological seminary, by the chancellor of New York university, dealing 
with preparation for the ministry. 

330. Craig, Joseph D. Albany medical college. Albany medical annals, 36: 1-18, 

January 1915. 
Historical sketch of the college. Comparison made with other medical schools. 

331. Mclntire, Charles. Rigidity of the curriculum an obstacle to the progress of 

medical education. Journal of sociologic medicine, 16:4-9, February 1915. 

Discussion, p. 9-17. 

Read at the thirty-ninth annual meeting of the American academy of medicine, Atlantic City, 
N. J., June 19, 1914. 

332. Owre, Alfred. Dental education. Dental cosmos, 57: 166-73, January 1915. 

Urges a united eflort to have the state imiversities take over all dental education. 

333. Shennan, L. Storrow. The Dunfermline school dental clinic of the Carnegie 

Dunfermline trust. Dental cosmos, 57: 11-25, January 1915. 

Gives specimens of the cards and notices which are used in connection with the school at Dun- 
fermline, Scotland. 

334. Smith, Theobald. Scholarship in medicine. Boston medical and surgical 

journal, 172: 122-24, January 28, 1915. 

Address to the students of the Harvard medical school, Decemter 2, 1914. Emphasizes the 
relation between biological and social sciences. 

CIVIC EDUCATION. 

335. Luserke, M. Staatsbiirgerliche erziehung in der schule. Monatshefte der 

Comenius-gesellschaft f iir volkserziehung, 23: 99-106, October 1914. 

The author is Oustav Adolph Wyneken's successor as director ofthe Freie schulgemeinde 
in Wickersdorf, which is a "landschulheim." 

336. Shuster, W. Morgan. Peace and disarmament. Century magazine, 

89: 503-11, February 1915. 

"Reflections of a neutral on war and education." How to humanize a nation through edu- 
cation. Says: "Concisely or otherwise, every existing system of education or training for the 
individual in relation to his state tends to exalt physical force." 

MILITARY TRAINING. 

337. Schvirm.an, Jacob G. "Every college should introduce military training." 

Everybody's magazine, 32: 179-83, February 1915. 

Advocates military training not only from the viewpoint of patriotism, but because of its 
intellectual, moral, and physical advantages. Believes the Government should offer commis- 
sions in the regular army "to the best-trained men in the military departments of our colleges 
and universities." 

EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 

338. Sellmann, . Jugendpflege und die hoheren madchenschulen. Frauen- 

bildung, 13: 481-88, 10 heft, 1914. 

An account of work with girls, as carried on by the "Pfadfinderinnenbund," the "Wander- 
vogel," and the "Deutscher junghelfcrbund." 



22 CUKEENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

339. Women's educational and industrial union, Boston, Mass. Depart- 

ment of research. The public schools and women in office service. Pre- 
pared under the direction of May Allinson. Boston, Mass., Women's educa- 
tional and industrial union [1914?] 187p. 8°. 

An investigation dealing with conditions applyins to the oommercial education of girls. Mr. 
F. V. Thompson, assistant superintendent of schools of Boston has the following to say in the 
Preface: "There is a tone of moderation throughout the report and there is evident no spirit 
of unnecessary challenge or indictment of the methods and purposes of commercial courses. 
Commendation is freely given to successful effort on the part of the schools, and criticism with 
a full appreciation of hampering conditions is stated with the evident purpose of helpfulness 
and encouragement. The attitude of the report will be found dispassionate, and commercial 
teachers reading it will feel impelled to renew their efforts with cheerfulness rather than with 
discouragement." 

NEGRO EDUCATION. 

340. Scott, Emmett J. "A negro out of the ordinary." Southern workman, 

44: 98-104, February 1915. 

Remarkable career and educational abilities of Dr. Isaac Fisher, who has "not a drop of Cau- 
casian blood in his veins." Winner of many prize essays on scientific, social, and educational 
subjects. 

341. Williams, W. T. B. The Yankee schoolma'am in negro education. Southern 

workman, 44: 73-80, February 1915. 

Debt of the negro to the teachers who came to the South to assist in his moral and mental 
uplift. 

ORIENTALS. 

342. Bose, Sudhindra. American impressions of a Hindu student. Forum, 

53: 251-57, February 1915. 
Activities of Hindu students at American educational institutions. 

343. Russier, Henri. L'instruction des indigenes au Tonkin. Revue peda- 

gogique, 65: 277-88, December 1914. 

DEFECTIVE AND DELINQUENT CHILDREN. 

344. Dean, Maria M. The responsibility of the general practitioner to the question 

of mental deficiency. New England medical gazette, 50: 83-92, February 

1915. 

Moral aspects of the problem. History of research work in the United States; Binet-Simon 
tests, etc. 

345. Hickman, H. B. Delinquent and criminal boys tested by the Binet scale. 

Training school bulletin, 11: 159-64, January 1915. 

346. Walsh, Elizabeth A. Ungraded class work in New York city— methods and 

results. Journal of psycho-asthenics, 19: 59-66, December 1914. 

Read at the meeting of the American association for the study of the feeble-minded, Columbus, 
Ohio, June 1914. 

LIBRARIES AND READING. 

347. Koch, Theodore W. The Imperial public library, St. Petersburg. Second 

paper: The story of a hundred years. Library journal, 40: 93-108, February 
1915. plates. 

348. Morgan, Geoffrey F. A suggested list of books for school libraries. Ohio 

teacher, 35: 253-55, January 1915. 
List of books by grades. 

BUREAU OF EDUCATION: RECENT PUBLICATIONS. 

349. City training schools for teachers; by Frank A. Manny. Washington, 1915. 

165 p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 47) 

350. Cooking in the vocational school as training for home making; by Iris Prouty 

O'Leary. Washington, 1915. 36 p. plates. (Bulletin, 1915, no. 1) 



CURKENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 23 

351. Curricula in mathematics. A comparison of courses in the countries represented 
in the International commission on the teaching of mathematics; by J. C. 
Brown, with the editorial cooperation of David Eugene Smith, William F. 
Osgood, J. W, A. Young. Washington, 1915. 91 p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 45) 

NEW PERIODICALS. 

The American school; a journal for those who organize, administer, and supervise 

American education. Vol. 1, no. 1, January 1915. Published monthly. 

American school publishing company, Milwaukee, Wis. Editors: C. G. 

Pearse, W. B. Owen, J. W. Searson. 
The Educational monthly. Vol. 1, no. 1, March 1915. Published monthly. State 

normal school, Athens, Ga. Frederick A. Merrill, editor. 
The Rural school teacher. Vol. 1, no. 1, February 1915. 10 numbers a year. Seciirity 

building, Chicago, 111. 

PERIODICALS REPRESENTED IN FEBRUARY AND MARCH NUMBERS OF 

Tins RECORD. 

Albany medical annals, 170 Washington avenue, Albany, N. Y. 

Allgemeine deutsche lehrerzeitung, Leipzig, Germany. 

American city, 93 Nassau street, New York, N. Y. 

American education, 50 State street, Albany, N. Y. 

American journal of nursing, 2419-21 Greenmount avenue, Baltimore, Md. 

American journal of psychology, Clark university, Worcester, Mass. 

American open air school journal. Broad and Chestnut streets, Philadelphia, Pa. 

American physical education review, 93 Westford avenue, Springfield, Mass. 

American school, American school publishing company, Milwaukee, Wis. 

American school board journal, 129 Michigan street, Milwaukee, Wis. 

American schoolmaster, State normal college, Ypsilanti, Mich. 

American teacher, 225 Fifth avenue. New York, N. Y. 

Archiv fiir padagogik, Leipzig, Germany. 

Arkansas teacher, Conway, Ark. 

Association seminar. Seminar publishing company, Springfield, Mass. 

Atlantic educational journal, 19 West Saratoga street, Baltimore, Md. 

Atlantic monthly, 4 Park street, Boston, Mass. 

Boston medical and surgical journal, 101 Tremont street, Boston, Mass. 

Bulletin of the Board of education of the Methodist Episcopal church. South, 810 

Broadway, Nashville, Tenn. 
Bulletin of the Society for the promotion of engineering education, Lancaster, Pa. 
Catholic educational review, Washington, D. C. 
Century magazine, 353 P^ourth avenue, New York, N. Y. 
Child -welfare magazine, 227 South Sixth street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Classical journal, University of Chicago press, Chicago, 111. 
Colorado school journal, 230 Railway Exchange building, Denver, Colo. 
Columbia university quarterly, Columbia university press. New York, N. Y. 
Cornhill magazine, London, England. 

Dental cosmos. Chestnut and Twelfth streets, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Deutsche schule, Leipzig, Germany. 
Education, 120 Boylston street, Boston, Mass. 

Educational administration and supervision, Warwick and York, Baltimore, Md. 
Educational bi-monthly. Board of education, Chicago, 111. 
Educational exchange, Birmingham, Ala. 
Educational foundations, 31-33 East Twenty-seventh street. New York, N. Y. 



24 CUERENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

Educational review, Columbia university, New York, N. Y. 

Educator-journal, 403 Newton Claypool building, Indianapolis, Ind. 

Elementary school journal, University of Chicago press, Chicago, 111. 

English journal, University of Chicago press, Chicago, 111. 

Everybody's magazine. Spring and Macdougal streets, New York, N. Y. 

Forum, 32 West Fifty-eighth street, New York, N. Y. 

Frauenbildung, Leipzig, Germany. 

Harvard alumni bulletin, 50 State street, Boston, Mass. 

Hibbert journal, London, England, and 6 Beacon street, Boston, Mass. 

High school quarterly, University of Georgia, Athens, Ga. 

History teacher's magazine, McKinley publishing company, Philadelphia, Pa, 

Home progress, Riverside press, Cambridge, Mass. 

Industrial-arts magazine, 129 Michigan street, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Journal of education, 6 Beacon street, Boston, Mass. 

Journal of education, London, England. 

Journal of educational psychology, Warwick and York, Baltimore, Md. 

Journal of geography, Madison, Wis. 

Journal of home economics, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Journal of psycho-asthenics, Faribault, Minn. 

Journal of sociologic medicine, 52 North Fourth street, Easton, Pa. 

Kindergarten review, Springfield, Mass. 

Lehrproben und lehrgange, Berlin, Germany. 

Library journal, 241 West Thirty-seventh street. New York, N. Y. 

Louisiana school work. Baton Rouge, La. 

Manual training and vocational education. Manual arts press, Peoria, 111. 

Mathematics teacher, 41 North Queen street, Lancaster, Pa. 

Methodist review, 150 Fifth avenue. New York, N. Y. 

Middle- West school review, Tenth and Douglas streets, Omaha, Nebr. 

Midland schools, Des Moines, Iowa. 

Mind and body, Herold building, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Mississippi educational advance, Jackson, Miss. 

Missouri school journal, Jefferson City, Mo. 

Moderator- topics, Lansing, Mich. 

Monatshefte der Comeniusgesellschaft, Berlin, Germany. 

Monitor de la educaci6n comiin, Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic. 

National municipal review. North American building, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Nature-study review, Ithaca, N. Y. 

New England medical gazette, 80 East Concord street, Boston, Mass. 

New republic, 421 West Twenty- first street. New York, N. Y. 

Normal school bulletin. Board of regents of normal schools, Madison, Wis. 

Northwest journal of education, Seattle, Wash. 

Ohio educational monthly, Columbus, Ohio. 

Ohio teacher, Box 326, Athens, Ohio. 

Outlook, 287 Fourth avenue. New York, N. Y. 

Padagogische blatter, Gotha, Germany. 

Padagogische zeitung, Berlin, Germany. 

Padagogisches archiv, Braunschweig, Germany. 

Pearson's magazine, 425-435 East Twenty-fourth street. New York, N. Y. 

Pennsylvania school journal, Lancaster, Pa. 

Physical training, 124 East Twenty-eighth street. New York, N. Y. 

Pittsburgh school bulletin, 1003 Bessemer building, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Playground, 1 Madison avenue, New York, N. Y. 

Popiilar educator, 50 Bromfield street, Boston, Mass. 

Popular science monthly. The Science press. Garrison, N. Y. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 25 

Primary education, 50 Bromfield street, Boston, Mass. 

Princeton alumni weekly, Princeton, N. J. 

Psychological clinic, Woodland avenue and Thirty-sixth street, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Public schools, 328 Empire building, Denver, Colo. 

Public speaking review, Swarthmore, Pa. 

Religious education, 332 South Michigan avenue, Chicago, 111, 

Revista de instrucci6n piibUca, Guatemala, Guatemala. 

Re^oie Internationale de I'enseignement, Paris, France. 

Revue pedagogique, Paris, France. 

Rivista pedagogica, Rome, Italy. 

Rural school teacher, Security building, Chicago, 111. 

School and home education, Bloomington, 111. 

School and society, The Science press. Garrison, N. Y. 

School-arts magazine, 120 Boylston street, Boston, Mass. 

School music, Keokuk, Iowa. 

School news and practical educator, Taylorville, 111; 

School news of New Jersey, New Egypt, N. J. 

School progress. School progress league, Philadelphia, Pa. 

School review. University of Chicago press, Chicago, 111. 

School science and mathematics. Mount Morris, 111. 

School world, London, England. 

Schulhaus, Berlin, Germany. 

Science, The Science press. Garrison, N. Y. 

Southern workman, Hampton, Va. 

Svensk lararetidning, Stockholm, Sweden. 

Teacher, 2125 Uber street, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Teachers college record. Teachers college, Columbia university, New York, N. Y. 

Teachers magazine, 31 East Twenty-seventh street. New York, N. Y. 

Teaching, State normal school, Emporia, Kans. 

Texas school journal, 1927 Main street, Dallas, Tex. 

Training school bulletin, Vineland, N. J. 

Training school quarterly, Greenville, N. C. 

Unpopular re-.dew, 35 West Thirty-second street, New York, N. Y, 

Virginia journal of education, Richmond, Va. 

Vocationist, Oswego, N. Y. 

Volta review, Volta bureau, Washington, D. C. 

White Mountain educator, Lancaster, N. H. 

Wisconsin journal of education, Madison, Wis. 

Wyoming school journal, Laramie, Wyo. 

Yale review, 135 Elm street. New Haven, Conn. 

Zeitschrift f iir kinderforschung, Langensalza, Germany. 

Zeitschrift fiir lateinlose hohere schulen, Leipzig, Germany. 

Zeitschrift fiir philosophic und piidagogik, Langensalza, Germany, 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note.— With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print. 

1906. 

fNo. 1. Education bfll of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
fNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmann. 
^No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 19(H 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

fNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maermel. 

fNo. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

*No. 2. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 10 cts. 

♦No. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James IngersoU Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

♦No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

♦No. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 30 cts. 
♦No. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher edacation partially supported by 

the State, 1907-8. 5 cts. 

l909. 

♦No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Oovemment in Washington. 
Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 

♦No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 

♦No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thomdike. 
No. 6. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 

♦No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 
T. Bailey. 15 cts. 

No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-190 7. 

♦No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 

♦No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

♦No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 190&-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

♦No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the pablic schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: m. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to pabllo education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. Listof publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
♦No. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 50 cts. 
♦No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 cts. 
tN& & Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

thfi State, 1909-10. 

Z 



n BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. 0. Monahan. 5 eta. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. IS cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts 
tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 190&-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
*No. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. H. Updegrafl. 20 cts. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

•No. 1. A course ofstudy for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F.Mutchler and W.J. Craig. 5 cts. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
♦No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
♦No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 

♦No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. Sets. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12. lOctS.J 
♦No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics. No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrlck. 
♦No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
♦No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics. No. IT. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
♦No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
♦No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Lelper. 5 cts. 
♦No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegraff and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 

♦No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. Q. Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. HI. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
♦No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and C. Goldziher. 

No. 30. Latin- American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
♦No. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 10 cts. 

♦No. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 5 cts. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 

»No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 

♦No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts- 

tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. m 

♦No. 6. Agricultural instruction in high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenks. 10 Cts. 

*No. 7, College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A, C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

tNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

fNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

tNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efficiency of schools or systems of schools. 6 Cts 

*No. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 10 cts. 

fNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. May, 1913. 

♦No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

♦No. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 10 cts. 
♦No. 18. The fifteenth mtemational congress on hygiene and demography, Fletcher B. Dresslar, 10 cts. 
♦No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
♦No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
♦No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E. 0. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
♦No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and In the United States. Georg Kerschensteiner. 

Sets. 
♦No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Boland B. Daniel. 6 cts. 
tNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

♦No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
♦No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
♦No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
♦No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 
tNo. 33. Monthly record of cvurent educational publications, September, 1913. 
♦No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
♦No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
♦No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
♦No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmann. 
♦No. 40. The reorganized school playgroimd. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
♦No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
♦No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
♦No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, ^lovember, 1913. 
♦No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

♦No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
♦No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country -life high school. A. C. Monahan and A. Phillips. 

No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 
♦No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
♦No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 65. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, October 1, 1909, to October 1, 1912. James 

C. Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 
♦No. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 15 cts. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

•No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 6 cts. 
No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 

•No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 6 cts. 
No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfleld. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education, R. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational put)lications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational pulilications, May, 1914. 
*No. 12. Rural schooLhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
*No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 50 cts. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The pul^iic school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of ciurent educational publications, October, 1914. 

No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction In universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry H. Evana. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in Euglaud, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home — Pai 1 1. General statement. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part 11. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography list of schools. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boys In Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula In mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Hathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural school teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O 'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 

No. 4. The health of school children. W. H. Beck. 

No. 5. Organization of State departments of education. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 6. A study of colleges and high schools. 

No. 7. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Samuel P. Capen. 

No. 8. Present status of the honor system in colleges and universities. Bird T. BaldwbL 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915. NO. 10 WHOLE NUMBER 635 



MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT 
EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS 



COMPILED BY THE LIBRARY DIVISION OF THE 
BUREAU OF EDUCATION, UNDER THE DIREC- 
TION OF JOHN D. WOLCOTT, CHIEF OF DIVISION 



APRIL. 1913 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFHCE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBUCATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVEKNMENT FRtNTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

fi CENTS PER COPY 



MONTHLY RECORD OF CURRENT EDUCATIONAL 

PUBLICATIONS. 



Contents. — Introductory notes — Publications of associations — Educational history— Current educational 
conditions — Pedagogics and didactics— Educational psychology; ChOd study— Special methods of instruc- 
tion — Special subjects of curriculum — Kindergarten and primary school— Rural education — Secondary 
education — Teachers: Training and professional status — Higher education — School administration — School 
management— School hygiene and sanitation— Sex hygiene — Physical training— Social aspects of educa- 
tion—Child welfare — Vocational training and vocational guidance — School gardens— Home economics — 
Commercial education — Medical education— Military training — Education of women — Negroes and In- 
dians—Defective and delinquent children — Libraries and reading — Bureau of Education: Recent publi- 
cations— Bulletin of the Bureau of Education. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTES. 

Among the volumes listed in the present bulletin the following 
may be designated as of special importance, the numbers in paren- 
theses referring to the full entries in this record: McCormick, History 
of education (357): Adams, Making the most of one's mind (368); 
Kemp, Methods for elementary and secondary schools (372); Chap- 
man, Individual differences in ability and improvement (377); 
Mackay, Children's plays (403); Bailey, Montessori children (414); 
Parker, Methods of teaching in high schools (426); New York State 
Department of efficiency and economy. Report on cost of providing 
free textbooks (453); Kelly, Teachers' marks (459); Yearbook of 
open-air schools (464); Davenport, What is involved in vocational 
education (474) ; Thompson, Commercial education in public second- 
ary schools (491). 

Only publications of the Bureau of Education are available for 
free distribution by this office. All others here listed may ordinarily 
be obtained from their respective publishers, either directly or through 
a dealer, or, in the case of an association publication, from the secre- 
tary of the issuing organization. 

Books, pamphlets, etc., intended for inclusion in this record should 
be sent to the library of the Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 



PUBLICATIONS OF ASSOCIATIONS. 

352. National association of corporation schools. Second annual convention. 
Papers, reports, bibliographies and discussions, Philadelphia, Pa., June 9-12, 
1914. New York, The Trow press, 1914. 702 p. 8°. (F. C. Henderschott, 
secretary, New York, N. Y.) 

Contains: 1. H. J. Tily: Retail sales training, p. 84-94; Discussion, p. 95-102. 2. H. Tipper: 
The value of training men for work in the advertising department, p. 124-28; Discussion, p. 
128-39. 3. A. E. Corbin: The development of salesmen of high grade automobiles, p. 145-58; 

3 



4 CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

Discussion, p. 15S-66. 4. M. E. Douglas: The selection and training of juvenile sales agents, p. 
167-82; Discussion, p. 182-86. 5. C. R. Sturdevant: Training executives, p. 259-66; Discussion, 
p. 266-80. 6. L. L. Park: Training of draftsmen, p. iS3-90. 7. Paul Kreu/.pointner: The rela- 
tion of the public school system to corporation schools, p. 291-303. 8. F. W. Thomas: A general 
talk on apprentice schools, p. 304-14. 9. H. E. Miles: The continuation school and its direction, 
p. 315-25. 10. R. J. Watson: The training of trade apprentices, p. 326-36; Discussion, p. 337-41. 
11. J. H. Weller: A description of the educational work carried on by the Packard motor car 
company, Detroit, Mich., p. 342-49; Discussion, p. 349-55. 12. N. F. Dougherty: The relation 
of the school to employment, p. 356-61. 13. B. W. Isfort: Organization in the school and the 
work in the shop, p. 362-66. 14. W. C. Ash: Continuation class for printers in the Philadelphia 
. trades school, p. 368-76. 15. C. R. Beeman: Some practical problems of the organization of an 
apprentice school, p. 377-81; Discussion, p. 381-88. 16. J. W. Schultze: Office work schools— 
ai-e they worth while, p. 497-516; Discussion, p. 517-21. 17. J. S. Donaldson: Training office 
workers for a railroad, p. 522-29; Discussion, p. 529-35. 18. W. L. Chandler: Corporation versus 
other schools, p. 536-49; Discussion, p. 549-59. 19. R. L. Cooley: The connecting link between 
the old school and business, p. 572-83; Discussion, p. 583-92. 

353. National collegiate athletic association. Proceedings of the ninth annual 

convention, held at Chicago, 111., December 29, 1914. 85 p. 8°. (Frank W. 
Nicolson, secretary, Middletown, Conn.) 

Contains: 1. Frank Angell: College athletics on the Pacific Coast, p. 46-50. 2. C. W. Savage: 
The professional versus the educational in college athletics, p. 52-59. 3. W. H. Lillard: The 
Andover plan, p. 59-64. 4. P. D. Haughton: Mental training in football, p. 64-07. 

354. National education association. Department of superintendence. 

[Synopsis of proceedings of the Cincinnati meeting, February 22-27, 1915.] 
Journal of education, 81:255-63, 266, 268-72, March 11, 1915. 

Contains: 1. W. H. Taft: Is a national standard of education practical?— 2. David Snedden: 
The Gary system— its pros and cons for other cities. — 3. C. H. Judd: Justification and limitations 
of extension service by state normal schools. — 4. J. G. Becht: Rural school supervision.— 5. E. C. 
Elliott: How shall the merits of teachers be tested and recorded?— 6. A. F. Pease: Teachers' 
agencies— their alms, methods, and advantages.— 7. W. A. Wheatley: The place of a survey of 
vocations in the curriculum.— 8. J. W. Davis: The need of a permanent school census in larger 
cities. — 9. A. A. McDonald: The taking of the school census.— 10. W. A. Jessup: Current prac- 
tices and standards in arithmetic— 11. C. H. Johnston: Preparation of high school teachers. 

355. Pennsylvania state educational association. Proceedings of sixty-fifth 

meeting, session at Harrisburg, December 1914. Pennsylvania school jour- 
nal, 63:321-71, February 1915. 

Contains: 1. J. J. Palmer: [Efficiency in education] p. 322-24. 2. M. G. Bmmbaugh: [Schools 
of Pennsylvania] p. 325-27. 3. W. C. Bagley: Physical equipment of the school, p. 327-31. 4. 
R. C. Shaw: Standards in education, p. 336-39. 5. L. W. Rapeer: Standardization of the rural 
school plant, p. 339-44. 6. E. H. Griggs: Self-culture through the vocation, p. 347-51. 7. E. H. 
Griggs: Education for the art of life, p. 352-55. 8. O. T. Corson: The three C's in education, p. 
355-57. 9. W. G. Chambers: Co-operation in education, p. 359-61. 

EDUCATIONAL HISTORY. 

856. Leach, A. F. Dr. Kuno Meyer and the origin of Irish learning. Journal of 
education (London) 47:85-86, February 1915. 

357. McCormick, Patrick J. History of education; a survey of the development of 

educational theory and practice in ancient, medieval, and modem times. 
With an introduction by E. A. Pace. Washington, D. C, The Catholic edu- 
cation press, 1915. xxxiv, 401 p. 12". 
Contains bibliographies. 

358. Thomas, John H. The academies of Indiana. Indiana magazine of history, 

11: 8-39, March 1915. 

Interesting historical sketches of the private secondary schools of Indiana. Concluded from 
the February number. 

CURRENT EDUCATIONAL CONDITIONS. 

859. Aspling, Edvin. N&gra anteckningar frau en studieresa i England. Folk- 
ekolans van, 30: 817-19, 853-55, 886-88, December 2, 16, 30, 1914. 
An account of the author's observations during a trip to England. 



CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 5 

360. Chicago. Board of education. [Survey of public schools. I In its 60th 

Annual report for the year ended June 30, 1914. p. 131-387. 

The survey was made by committees of teachers and principals, with chairmen taken from the 
city superintendent's staff, and covers the following topics: School ptant, Administration, Child 
study, Physical education. Humane and moral education, Social efficiency, Music, Training of 
teachers, Kindergartens, Reading, Spelling, Penmanship, Arithmetic and mathematics. Geog- 
raphy and nature study. History, German, Art-construction, Industrial and prevocational edu- 
cation. Commercial education in high schools. Vocational work in technical high schools, Vocar 
tional guidance. Bureau of vocational guidance. Special schools, Penny lunches. Corrective insti- 
tutions. 

361. Dean, Arthur D. State program for industrial and social efficiency. School 

and society, 1: 364-70, March 13, 1915. 

Read before the National education association. Department of superintendence, Cincinnati, 
Ohio. 

Discusses the question of "a state-wide program which will turn a share of the profits of indus- 
try into educational opportimities for all the children of all the people." Gives special attention 
to educational aspects of child labor. 

362. Gardini, F. V. La instruccion primaria en el Perii. Revista universitaria, 

Organo de la Universidad mayor de San Marcos (Peru) 2: 484-510, December 
1914. 

363. Guitteau, Williani B. Toledo's public schools. Toledo's cosmopolitan high 

schools. Ohio educational monthly, 64: 131-34, March 1915. 

364. Japan. Department of education. Education in Japan, prepared for the 

Panama-Pacific international exposition, 1915. Tokyo, Japan, Department 
of education, 1915. 187 p. tables. 8°. 

365. Meyer, H. Th. Matth. The German school work during the first five months 

of the European war. American school board journal, 50: 8, 67, March 1915. 
"This article has been especially prepared to give American educators an idea of how the Ger- 
man schools are being conducted since the beginning of the Em-opean war. The author is, and 
has been for many years, superintendent of the Hamburg schools." 

366. NetschajaS, Alexander. The study of education in Russia. Journal of 

experimental pedagogy, etc. (London), 3: 53-56, March 5, 1915. 
First number of a series of papers on education in Russia. 

367. Shiels,i^lbert. Illiteracy and industrial efficiency in large ciffes. School and 

society, 1: 325-36, March 6, 1915. 

Address delivered at the Department of superintendence. National education association, Cin- 
cinnati, February 25, 1915. 

PEDAGOGICS AND DIDACTICS. 

368. Adams, John. Making the most of one's mind. New York, Hodder & Stough- 

ton, George H. Doran company [1915] vi, 290 p. 12°. 

Contents.— Taking oneself Ld hand.— Plan of campaign.— Manipulation of the memory.— 
Nature of study and thinking.— Mode of study.— Reading.— Text-books and books of reference- 
Listening and note-making. — Constructive study in translation and essay-writing. — Examinations. 

369. Childe, Elizabeth. Teaching concentration. Outlook, 109: 155-59, January 

20, 1915. 

Says that concentration is "the firmly established habit of attention that should be unaerstood 
by all parents, just as sanitation and infant hygiene should be imderstood." Children should be 
taught to concentrate at an early age. 

370. Cooper, Clayton Sedgwick. World-wide education. VII. Education — 

the American passion. Educational foundations, 26: 400-8, March 1915. 

Discusses the subject under the following headings: Early forces and foundations, and Modern 
evolution of the American school boy. 



6 CURKENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

371. Gitson, T. Education and personality. Parents' review (London) 26: 92-102, 

February 1915. 

Advocates moral education as the root of all education. The essence of moral education is to 
form the habit of self-government. Reviews the various theories of education as expounded by 
Rousseau, Froebel, Pestalozzi, etc. To be continued. 

372. Kemp, Ellwood L. Methods for elementary and secondary schools. Phila- 

delphia and London, J. B. Lippincott company [1915] xiv, 311 p. 12°. 
(Lippincott's educational series, ed. by M. G. Brumbaugh) 

373. Peterson, W. Canadian essays and addresses. London, New York [etc.] 

Longmans, Green and co., 1915. xi, 373 p. 8°. 

Part 1 of this book contains addresses on political topics. Part 2 contains addresses on educational 
subjects, namely, National education, The unity of learning, Place of the university in the com- 
mercial city, The earliest universities and the latest. Claims of classical studies in modern educa- 
tion, Poetry in the school, Education and business, etc., etc. 

374. Sanders, Frederic W. The organization of education. Education, 35: 453-56, 

March 1915. 

Conclusion of a series of articles. Treats of the child of slow development; the child of exception- 
ally rapid growth and early maturity of mind or body; and the young person who has been kept 
out of school by illness, lack of opportunity, or other special cause. 

375. Snedden, David. Problems of aim in elementary education. School and 

society, 1: 253-57, February 20, 1915. 
Address given before the Elementary teachers' club, Teachers college, February 19, 1915. 

EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY: CHILD STUDY. 

376. Ballou, Frank W. Scales for the measurement of English compositions. 

Cambridge, Mass., Harvard university, 1914. 93 p. 8°. (The Harvard- 
Newton bulletins, no. 2) 

377. Chapman, James Crosby. Individual differences in ability and improve- 

ment and their correlations. New York city, Teachers college, Columbia 
university, 1914. 45 p. 8°. (Teachers college, Columbia university. Con- 
tributions to education, no. 63) 
Bibliography: p. 45. 

378. Courtis, S. A. Educational diagnosis. Educational administration and super- 

vision, 1: 89-116, February 1915. 

The writer says that the great determining factor in school efficiency is the iudividual diflerences 
in the native abilities of children. He thinks that the schools already provide ample opportunities 
for those able to learn, and that the eificiency of school work can most easily be increased not by 
increasing the opportunities provided, but by making for each child an individual adjustment 
of work based upon its measured needs. 

379. Drever, James. A study of children's vocabularies. Journal of experimental 

pedagogy, etc. (London) 3: 34-43, March 5, 1915. 

A comparative studj"- of the vocabularies of children of different ages, and coming from different 
social environments. To be continued. 

380. Drummond, Margaret. The Binet-Simon tests of intelligence. Child 

(London) 5: 311-16, March 1915. 

Explains the purport of the tests. Thinks that in the future certain improvements will be 
made in the scale by "equalizing the tests on the same age level, and possibly by substituthig 
tests which have a high correlation with intelligence for those in the scale which have been demon- 
strated to have a low one." 

381. Goudge, Mabel. A simplified method of conducting McDougall's spot-pattern 

test. Journal of educational psychology, 6: 73-84, February 1915. , 

Studies from the Cornell educational laboratory, no. 20. 

"Attention is generally esteemed of great importance in the learning process, but the measure- 
ment of the range and scope of attention is no simple matter. The McDougall 'spot-pattern' 
test has been employed by several investigators, but the method of procedure has been so com- 
plicated as to make it cumbersome. This article describes a simplified procedure, and gives some 
results of its application." 



CUERENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 7 

382. Gray, C. Truman. The training of judgment in the use of the Ayres scale for 

handwriting. Journal of educational psychology, 6: 85-98, February 1915. 

Contributions from the University of Texas educational laboratory, no. 6. 

"Three university students were trained for weeks in the use of the Ayres scale in grading hand- 
writing. The range of variation in the grades, which, at the bes,uming, was fairly high, was 
materially reduced by the trainiag, and the steaduiess of judgment was decidedly increased. The 
process of improvement is carefully analyzed." 

383. Harvey, Nathan A. The feelings of man; their nature, function and inter- 

pretation. Baltimore, Warwick & York, inc., 1914. 276 p. 12°. 

Makes a special attempt to bring to the interpretation of psychological phenomena the discov- 
eries that have been made in physiology and neurology. 

384. Lane, Henry A. Standard tests as an aid to supervision. Elementary school 

journal, 15: 378-86, March 1915. 

Results of the Courtis standard tests in arithmetic. The subjects were five hundred pupils dis- 
tributed in thirty-five classes in four schools in Houghton, Mich. Gives tabulations and graphs. 

385. Learned, WiUiam Setchel. A school system as an educational laboratory. 

Cambridge, Mass., Harvard university, 1914. 50 p. 8°. (The Harvard- 
Newton bulletins, no. 1.) 

Records the beginnings of educational research in the Newton, Mass., public schools, by the 
Harvard Division of education. 

386. McKeever, William Arch. Outlines of child study; a text book for parent- 

teacher associations, mothers' clubs, and all kindred organizations. New 
York, The Macmillan company, 1915. xiv, 181 p. 12°. 
" The child-study literatiu-e": p. [159]-181. 

387. Monroe, Walter S. A test of the attainment of first-year high school students 

in algebra. School review, 23: 159-71, March 1915. 

Says that proficiency in algebra demands that "one's knowledge of the formal processes be 
reduced to the plane of habit and be capable of automatic application." Gives statistical tables 
of class averages and average deviations. 

388. Morgan, C. Lloyd. "Meaning" and "significance." Journal of experimental 

pedagogy, etc. (London) 3: 1-8, March 5, 1915. 
Definition of these terms from the standpoint of psychology and pedagogy. 

389. Starch, Daniel. The measurement of efficiency in writing. Journal of educa- 

tional psychology, 6: 106-14, February 1915. 

"Derives standard scores in speed and quality of handwriting from tests on 4,074 pupils in grades 
I to VIII. In contrast to the findings of Freedman, speed and quality increase at a fairly uniform 
rate." 

390. Stockton, James Leroy. Exact measurements in education. Chicago, New 

York, Row, Peterson & company [1915]. 57 p. 16°. 

SPECIAL METHODS OF INSTRUCTION. 

391. Dyer, Walter A. The Hetty Browne method. World's work, 29:558-65, 

March 1915. 

Work at the Winthrop farm school, Rockhill, S. C. Described as "a parallel of the Montessori 
method, adapted to the needs of older children and to the conditions of life in a rural American 
community." Illustrated. 

392. Taylor, Howard F. The dictating machine in the schools. School review, 23: 

172-74, March 1915. 
Advocates using the dictating machine in the language department. 

SPECIAL SUBJECTS OF CURRICULUM. 

393. BaUard, P. B. Norms of performance in the fundamental processes of arith- 

metic. Journal of experimental pedagogy, etc. (London) 3: 9-20, March 5, 
1915. 

Deprecates the excessive use of the blackboard in elementary schools, both for setting exercises 
to be worked by the class and for exposition. Continued from previous number. 



8 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

394. Brown, Robert M. The European war and geography. Educational review, 
49:248-57, March 1915. 

"There are many questions," says the writer, "within the strict bounds of neutrality which 
make the study of Ivurope especially worth while today." 

Discusses newspaper maps of war areas, etc. 

■395. . Problems in geography — the map. Elementary school journal, 15: 

355-60, March 1915. 
Deals with the scale, direction, and legend of a map. 

396. Charters, W, W. and MiUer, Edith. A course of study in grammar, based 

upon the grammatical errors of school children of Kansas City, Missouri. Co- 
lumbia, Mo., University of Missouri, 1915. 45 p. 8°. (The University of 
Missouri bulletin, v. 16, no. 2. Education ser. 9). 

397. Conklin, Edwin G. The cultural value of zoology. Science, n. s. 41: 333-37, 

March 5, 1915. 

One of four papers in a symposium before the American society of naturalists, Philadelphia, 
December 31, 1914. General topic: "The value of zoology to humanity." Discusses the contri- 
butions of biology to education and civilization. 

398. Eikenberry, W. L. Some facts about the general science situation. School 

review, 23: 181-91, March 1915. 

Presents the status of science instruction in secondary schools in several states, particularly in 
Illinois. Shows the great importance of such teaching. 

399. Fairbanks, H. W. What should elementary school geography include and in 

what order should its materials be presented? Journal of geography, 13: 201-8, 
March 1915. 

400. Flagstad, Chr. Den paedagogiske vaerdi af undervisniug i fremmede sprog. 

Vor ungdom, p. 1-21, January, 1915. 
The author discusses the psychological and pedagogical value of instruction in foreign languages. 

401. Gibbs, C. E. University instruction in dramatic technique. New York dra- 

matic mirror, 73: 3, 5, March 10, 1915. 

A plea for instruction in the drama, as an assistance to the budding playwright. Universities 
should offer opportunities for presenting plays by their student-authors. Describes work of 
Harvard in this regard. 

402. McCorkle, Charles E. Instruction in city schools concerning the war. Peda- 

gogical seminary, 22: 1-26, March 1915. 

A questionnaire was sent to city superintendents, state commissioners of education, and vari- 
ous organizations, in order to ascertain the use that the schools are making of the opportunity of 
teaching the war. Iteplies are given from those who think the war should be taught and from 
those who think it should not be taught. Eighty per cent of the superintendents claim that the 
war should be taught. Gives suggestions as to how to teach the war. 

403. Mackay, Constance D'Arcy. How to produce children's plays. New York, 

H. Holt and company, 1915. 151 p. 12°. 

Includes a history of the children's play movement, a chapter on its sociological aspects and 
suggestions for new fields, ao well as chapters on play-producing, scenery, costumes, and proper- 
ties; also gives a graded list of plays adapted to the public schools, and a bibliography of child- 
drama. 

404. Nelson, J. C. Teaching of contemporary history in the high school. History 

teacher's magazine, 6: 82-85, March 1915. 

Read before the Inland Empire teachers' association, Spokane, Wash., April 16, 1914. 

"This paper has a twofold purpose: (1) To present the results of a test in current events as 
given to the pupils of our local high school, and (2) To show to what extent attention is being 
given to the teaching of ciurent events in the leading high schools of Washington.". 

405. Ohver, Thomas Edward, ed. Suggestions and references for modern language 

teachers . . . Urbana, 111., University of Illinois, 1914. 52 p. 8®. (Uni- 
versity of Illinois bulletin, vol. 12, no. 12, November 23, 1914.) 

Contents. — I. Training of the teacher. — II. The teacher in the class room. — III. The teacher 
outside the class room. — Addenda. 



CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 9 

406. Paul, H. G. The preparation of high school teachers of English. Illinois asso- 

ciation of teachers of English — Bulletin, 7: 5-17, February 15, 1915. 

407. Ritter, William. E. The biological laboratories of the Pacific coast. Popular 

science monthly, 86: 223-32, March 1915. 

Work of the marine laboratories established by the Leland Stanford university and the Uni- 
versity of California, etc. Draws some interesting philosophical conclusions regarding the study 
of biology. 

408. Rivers, John. The unconventional art school. World's ■ work (London), 

25: 287-89, February 1915. 
Work of the Heatherley school of fine art, London. 

409. Texas history teachers' bulletin, vol. 3, no. 2, February 15, 1915. (Bulletin of 

the UniA-ersity of Texas, 1915, no. 10.) 

Contains: 1. M. R. Gutsch: The teaching of current history in the high school. — 2. D. F. McCoI- 
lum: The effectiveness of history teaching as shown by recent experiment.— 3. Harriet Smither: 
A high school course in history. — i. Thomas Fletcher: Report of committee on condition of his- 
tory teaching in Texas. 

410. Wannamaker, OUn Dantzler. The proposed uniform grammatical nomen- 

clature: a criticism. English journal, 4: 82-89, February 1915. 

A running commentary on the report of the Joint comijiittee on nomenclature, taking up each 
part of speech separately and showing wherein the Committee recommendations could have been 
improved. 

411. Webster, Edward H. Cooperation of departments in English instruction and 

practice. Education, 35: 409-21, March 1915. 

The writer says that the most effective correlation within the English department is to be found 
in appreciating "the very close relations between oral and written composition." Teachers in 
other departments should insist upon "a clear, well-finished, grammatical oral recitation." In 
the wTitten work they should lay emphasis upon correct sentence and paragraph structure; and 
do all in their power to develop in students a comprehensive vocabulary. 

412. Woodhull, John F. Science teaching by projects. School science and math- 

ematics, 15:225-32, March 1915. 

Abstract of addresses delivered at the aimual conference of high school teachers, University of 
Illinois, November 20, 1914, and at the aimual meeting of the New York state teachers' association, 
Albany, November 24, 1914. 

KINDERGARTEN AND PRIMARY SCHOOL, 

413. International kindergarten union. Proceedings of the twenty-first annual 

meeting ... Springfield, Mass., April 20-25, 1914. 162 p. 8°. (Miss May 
^lurray, secretary, Springfield, Mass.) 

414. Bailey, Carolyn Sherwin. Montessori children. New York, H. Holt and 

company, 1915. 188 p. illus. 12°. 

415. Smith, Nora Archibald. Present day criticisms of the kindergarten. Kin- 

dergarten review, 25:401-10, March 1915. (To be continued.) 

This article "was written by Miss Smith in March, 1909, and is now published because the 
editor feels that it will be of interest to the kindergarten world to see how many of the criticisms 
here quoted have been met in the years that have passed, and how many are stOl in force." 

RURAL EDUCATION. 

416. Campbell, W. J. Rural educational needs and opportunities. Association 

seminar, 23:180-97, February 1915. 
This is chapter 3 of a series of articles on Rural life problems. 

417. Carleton, E. F. The standard of Polk county. What a county superintend- 

ent of schools in Oregon did to bring him national recognition. World's work, 
29:589-91, March 1915. 

A short but interesting account of experiments in standardization; cooperation of parents and 
schools. 

86422°— 15 2 



10 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

418. Early, J. J. The reorganization of the office of county superintendent. Wyo- 

ming school journal, 11: 161-66, February 1915. 
Advocates the county system for Wyoming. 

419. Pittenger, Benjamin P. The country school's emancipation. American 

schoolmaster, 8:66-72, March 1915. 

The writer says "that the rural school has enjoyed very little independence of aim and action 
in the past ... It took its rise from the urban school" and has borrowed its course of study, etc., 
from the urban school. "The time has come for the rural school to draft a declaration of inde- 
pendence ... to select and present its own subject matter." 

420. Schley, Constance. The country school of permanent influence. Educa- 

tional monthly, 1:11-16, March 1915. 

SpeaTiS particularly of conditions in Georgia. Says that "the school of permanent influence is 
dependent upon local pride, local initiative, local seh-sacrifiee, and local tax in behalf of good 
schools." Thinks that Georgia will never have schools of permanent influence without local 
school taxation. 

SECONDARY EDUCATION. 

421. Illinois. University. High school conference. Proceedings, November 

19, 20, 21, 1914. Ed. by H. A. HoUister. Urbana, 111., The University [1914] 
328p. 8°. (University of Illinois bulletin, vol. 12, no. 21, January 25, 1915.) 
Contains: 1. W. C. Bagley: Principles justifying common elements in the school program, 
p. 9-21. 2. J. W. Withers: The principles on which readjustments of the program of studies should 
be based, p. 24-32. 3. Report of the Committee on "The administrative factors involved in read- 
justments of the program of studies," p. 32-42. 4. M. H. Stuart: The relation of courses in voca- 
tional education to our present school curriculum, p. 42-46. 5. F. D. Barber: The present status 
and real meaning of general science, p. 48-58. 6. J. G. Moore: Supervised study, p. 72-78. 
7. F. W. Johnson: Supervised study, p. 78-84. 8. Sarah E. Sheehan: Views of high school gradu- 
ates regarding the value of their training in Latin, p. 126-32. 9. A. L. Loring: The relation of 
high school commercial courses to university courses in commerce, p. 144-49. 10. J. C. Hanna: 
The high school curriculum, p. 156-63. 11. H. G. Paul: The preparation of high school teachers 
of English, p. 176-88. 12. E. R. Breslich: Supervised study in mathematics, p. 247-58; Discus- 
sion, p. 259-60. 13. H. O. Rugg: Marking systems with special reference to the marks of niiiiois 
high school and college teachers, p. 261-62. 14. Miss F. L. Stuart: The demand for Spanish, 
p. 264-68. 15. A. R. Seymour: Business Spanish in the high school, p. 279-80. 16. J. L. Erb: 
Accrediting applied music in the high schools, p. 286-90; Discussion, p. 290-97. 

422. Foster, J. Murray. A study of the Dansville high school. Dansville, N. Y., 

F. A. Owen publishing company, 1915. 109p. illus. 8*. 
Published by the order of the Board of education. 

423. Johnston, Charles Hughes. High school terminology. Educational review, 

49: 228-47, March 1915. 

Shows the growing necessity for pedagogical definitions; and presents a terminology for internal 
administration and supervision of high schools. 

424. Movement toward the reorganization of secondary education. Educa- 
tional administration and supervision, 1: 165-72, March 1915. 

Gives some of the arguments that have been made for and against the six-and-six plan. The 
writer thinks that there is little proof either way to show the success or failure of experiments 
with reorganization, but says that he has found no evidence that any of the school experimenters 
yrould be willing to return to the old system. 

425. Kiessmaiui, Rudolf. Gedanken iiber unsere hoheren lehranstalten, mit 

besonderer beriicksichtigung der gymnasien. Preussische jahrbiicher, 159: 

96-122, January 1915. 

A defence of German higher boys' schools against what the author considers unjust criticism, 
offset by the author's own criticism of certain features. 

426. Parker, Samuel Chester. Methods of teaching in high schools. Boston, 

New York [etc.] Ginn and company [1915] xxv, 529 p. illus. 12*. 

In general the author holds that efficiency and economy in instruction are facilitated by (1) 
radically adapting all instruction to contemporary social needs, (2) basing methods of instruction 
on sound psychological principles which have been determined, as far as possible, experimen- 
tally, and (3) applying principles of scientific business management to the conduct of all 
teaching. 



CUEEENT EDUCATIOlSrAL PUBLICATIONS. 11 

427. Scofleld, F. A. The junior high school at McMinnville, Oregon. American 

school board journal, 50: 11-13. 65, March 1915. 

Abstract of an address delivered before the secondary section of the Oregon state teachers' asso- 
ciation, December 23, 1914. 

Gives an outline of a working plan for a junior high school, and its advantages over the old grade 
method. 

428. Walker, N. W. A high school curriculum without a foreign language. Can 

Buch a curriculum be constructed that will put high school graduates into 
North Carolina colleges without condition? If not, why not? North Carolina 
high school bulletin, 6: 8-37, January 1915. 

Paper presented at Charlotte, N. C, November 27, 1914, before the Department of city super- 
intendents of the North Carolina teachers' assembly. 

Tells how the institutions of the north and west have met the question and gives opinions of 
some prominent educators. 

TEACHERS: TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL STATUS. 

429. Boyce, Arthur C. A method for guiding and con trolling the judging of teachers. 

American school board journal, 50: 9-10, 66-67, March 1915. 

430. Bradford, Mrs. Mary D. Motives for increasing professional interest and 

growth of teachers. American school board journal, 50: 16-17, March 1915. 

"The present suggestive paper . . . was read, in part, before a general session of the Wisconsin 
teachers' association, November 7, 1914." — Editor. 

431. Brereton, Cloudesley. The training colleges and the war. Journal of educa- 

tion (London) 47: 124-25, February 1915. (Conference supplement.) 

Says that the duty of the teacher is mainly spiritual. He must aim at developing "a corporate 
conscience in each nation that makes each nation seriously determined that one nation shall not 
do wTong or injure another nation, and, if it threatened so to act, must submit to arbitration." 

432. Carrington, W. T. The study of education in a normal school. Missouri 

school journal, 32: 115-19, March 1915. 

433. The ethics of a broken contract. Western teacher, 23: 205-7, February 1915. 

Discusses the subject from the point of view of the school board and the teacher. 

434. Luckey, G. W. A. The essentials in the training of a teacher. School and 

society, 1: 263-69, February 20, 1915. 

"The first requisite in the training of a teacher Is good health and lofty ambition; the second, 
to come through training, is scholarship with right motives; and the third is professional skill in 
imparting knowledge and inspiring others to right living." 

435. Salvoni, Maurilio. Che cosa non dk la ecuola normale. Rivista pedagogica, 

8: 55-63, January 1915. 
A severe criticism of Italian normal schools and their pupils. 

436. Teacher-mother question in New York. Educational review, 49: 285-94, 

March 1915. 

Decision of Commissioner Finley on the so-called teacher-mother question which has arisen in 
the New York city schools. 

437. Tyner, B. G. Thorough academic instruction as a foundation for professional 

training. Virginia journal of education, 8: 349-53, March 1915. 
Qualifications and training necessary for the teaching profession. 

438. [Winship, A. E.] Teaching to teach. Journal of education, 81: 229-31, March 4, 

1915. 
An editorial on the profession of teaching. 

439. Work in education in colleges and universities, rating, placing, and promotion 

of teachers, lists of investigations and other information of interest to mem- 
bers ... Papers presented for discussion at the meeting of the Society of college 
teachers of education, Cincinnati, Ohio, February 23, 1915 ... Chicago, 111., 
The University of Chicago press [1915]. iii, 94 p. diagrs. 8*, (The Bchool 



12 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

review monographs, issued in cooperation with the Society of college teachers 
of education, no. vi.) 

"Publications of tlie Society no. 11." 

Contents.— Aims of departments of education in colleges and universities, by C. Alexander. — 
Facilities for teacher-training in colleges and universities, by C. H. Johnsion.— Credit granted by 
colleges and universities to graduates of normal schools, by W. C. "Ruediger. — Recognition given 
college graduates in the granting of teachers' certificates, by H. UpdegrafF.— Committee on rating, 
placing, and promotion of teachers: some propositions and a plan tor the improvement of condi- 
tions, F. E. Thompson, chairman of committee. — Scholarship in relation to teaching efficiency, by 
F. L. Clapp.— A method for guiding and controlling the judging of teaching efficiency, by A. C. 
Boyce. — List of investigations by members, by C. Alexander. 

fflGHER EDUCATION. 

440. Burris, W. P. The opportunity of a municipal university in relation to the city 

schools. School and society, 1: 295-300, February 27, 1915. 

A paper read before the Association of municipal universities and colleges at Washington, D. C, 
November 11, 1914. 

441. Canby, Henry S. The undergraduate background. Harper's magazine, 130: 

466-71, February 1915. 
Discusses the po«f er of environment in the making of culture, both in the home and in the college. 

442. Colton, Elizabeth Avery. The junior college problem in the South. Meredith 

college quarterly buJletin, ser. 8, no. 2: 3-15, January 1915. 

Presented at the meeting of the Association of colleges and secondary schools of the Southern 
states, CharlottesvUle, Va., October 22-23, 1914. 

A condensation of this paper is contained in the High school quarterly, 3: 114-19, January 1915. 

443. Fess, Simeon D. A national university. American school, 1: 38-40, February 

1915. 
Gives a number of reasons why a National university should be established. 

444. Pine, John B. Notes on the building of a university. Educational review, 49 : 

217-27, March 1915. 
Deals with architectural plans questions of administration, etc. 
Bibliography: p. 226-27. 

445. Pritchett, Henry S. Standards and standardizers. School and society, 1: 

336-39, March 6, 1915. 

Printed in advance from the ninth annual report of the president of the Carnegie foundation for 
the advancement of teaching. 

Gives the position of the Carnegie foundation in regard to college standards. Speaks of the 
criticisms that have been aimed against it, and says that the only standards that the Foundation 
has urged upon institutions have been those of honesty and sincerity. 

446. Steames, Wallace N. Some ear-marks of a university. Education, 35: 457-64, 

March 1915. 

Declares the purpose of a university to be thi-ee- fold: (1) Investigation and research; (2) instruc- 
tion at the university site and by extension; (3) publication and propaganda. 

447. Swift, F. H. The paradox of German university and military ideals. Educa- 

tional review, 49: 266-84, March 1915. 

The author maintains that Germany's system of education is "at heart bj-utal ... that it reaches 
its climax in the student life of the imiversities." 

SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION. 

448. Bagley, W. C. [The six-and-six plan and early differentiation.] School and 

home education, 34: 239-41, March 1915. 

Editorial. 

Not in favor of six-and-sbc plan. The writer thinks that it is undemocratic in its tendencies. 

449. Evans, C. E. State fimctions in education. Texas school journal, 32: 9-11, 29, 

March 1915. 



CUREEKT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 13 

450. Keith, John A. H. Unit board for the management of a state's educational 

agencies. American school, 1: 41-45, February 1915. 

"A single board is proposed in several states, to assume charge of all the state educational institu- 
tions, superseding the separate boards which have, in most states, had charge of the different 
institutions. The underlying principles and the considerations which should have weight are 
discussed." 

451. KH^gaman, O. E. Text-book legislation in Iowa. Iowa City, State historical 

society of Iowa, 1915. 65 p. 4°. 
Reprinted Irom Iowa journal of history and politics, 13: 53-113, January 1915. 

452. Lane, Winthrop D. From Gary to New York city. Survey, 33:628-30, 

637-39, March 6, 1915. 

Work of the schools described, and conditions ia Gary, Ind., contrasted with those in New 
York city. Presents a solution of the overcrowding of New York schools. William Wirt, super- 
intendent of schools in' Gary, the Indiana steel town of 25,000 people, has gone to New York, to 
demonstrate his methods of school of administration, etc. 

A criticism of the Gary plan as regards New York city, by Associate Superintendent E. B. 
Shallow, may be found in School, 26: 279, March 25, 1915. The report of the committee ap- 
pointed by the Syracuse, N. Y., board of education to investigate the Gary system forms a 
pamphlet of 22 pages. See also item 455, below. 

453. New York (State). Department of efl3.ciency and economy. Report of 

investigation of the cost of providing free text-books in the public schools of 
the state of New York. Albany, J. B. Lyon company, printers, 1915. 445 
p. 8°. 

Contains: Quotations from various sources — Compilation of some expressions of opinion, p. 
112-60. Bibliography of the school text-book question, p. 161-07. Digest of the school text- 
book laws ol the United States, 1914, p. 169-93. 

454. Shawkey, M. P. Financial support of the public schools. School and society, 

1:361-64, March 13, 1915. 
Presented at the Cincinnati meeting of the Department of superintendence. 

455. Snedden, David. The Gary system — its pros and cons for other cities. Amer- 

ican education, IS: 396-403, March 1915. 

An address delivered in Cincinnati before the Department of superintendence of the National 
education association, February 25, 1915. 

"The Gary system has attracted nation wide attention. Its most significant features, the scope 
of the work undertaken, the general plan of organization and administration are fully set forth in 
this article ... Dr. Snedden lias much to say in favor of the Gary system and very little in the 
■way of criticism." — Editorial, p. 395. 

456. Sutton, W. S. The school board as a factor in educational efficiency. Educa- 

tional review, 49: 258-65, March 1915. 

A plea for the proJessional freedom of the superintendent. Says that the board should resolutely 
prevent the introduction of partisan political methods into the administration of school affairs. 

457. Work of the intermediate schools of Los Angeles. Elementary school journal, 

15: 361-77, March 1915. 

Report made by the principals of the Los Angeles intermediate schools to Superintendent Fran- 
cis. Discusses the percentage of attendance of pupils; course of study; and advantages of the 
intermediate school. Presents interesting tables of statistics. 

SCHOOL MANAGEMENT. 

458. Harlan, Charles L. Size of class as a factor in schoolroom efficiency. Educa- 

tional administration and supervision, 1:195-209, March 1915. 

Gives data to show that the effect of the size of class on promotion rate, though slight, is in favor 
of 30 pupils or less; large classes seem to be a factor in producing withdrawals from the class; medium- 
sized classes seem to do better work in arithmetic. The difference in achievement of the small 
class over the lirge class is so small that it does not seem justified. Thinks ihat the large class, 
through improved methods of instruction and more efficient supervision, could achieve as much. 



14 CUBKENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

459. Kelly, Frederick James. Teachers' marks; their variability and standardiza- 

tion. New York city, Teachers college, Columbia university, 1914. 139 p. 
diagrs. 8°. (Teachers college, Columbia university. Contributions to edu- 
cation, no. 66.) 

Bibliography: p. 13.5-39. 

460. Meyer, Max Friedrich. The kind of scholarship records to be kept in schools. 

Columbia, Mo., University of Missouri, 1914. 15 p. incl. diagrs., forms. 8°. 
(The University of Missouri bulletin, v. 15, no. 32. Education ser. 8.) 
Bibliography: p. 14-15. 

461. Rugg, Harold Ord"way. Teachers' marks and marking systems. Educa- 

tional administration and supervision, 1: 117-42, February 1915. 
Bibliography: p. 140-42. 

SCHOOL HYGIENE AND SANITATION. 

462. Aikman, John. Medical inspection of open air schools. Journal of the Amer- 

ican medical association, 64: 731-33, February 27, 1915. 
Work of the Edward Mott Moore open air school, Rochester, N. Y. 

463. Steenhoff, G. De foreslagna skolreformerna ur hygienisk s>Tipunkt. Svensk 

lararetidning, 33: 1050-52, December 16, 1914. 
Discusses the school-hygienic aspocts of the proposed school reform in Sweden. 

464. Year book of open-air schools and children's sanatoria. A companion volume 

to "The tuberculosis year book and sanatoria annual." Ed. by T. N. Kely- 
nack. Vol. 1. 1915. London, J. Bale, sons & Danielson, ltd., 1915. xxxii, 
444 p. 4°. 

CJontains: 1. L. D. Cniickshank: Opsn-air education and treatment in Scotland, p. 188-96. 
2. W. J. Thompson: Open-air education and treatment in Ireland, p. 197-200. 3. G. D. Porter: 
Preventoria and open-air schools in Canada, p. 201-7. 4. S. C. Kingiley: The Elizabeth McCor- 
mick opjn-air schools of Chicago, p. 207-13. 5. Egbert Morland: Opan-air education in Switzer- 
land, p. 214-20. 6. L. P. Ayres: Open-air schools in the United States, p. 221-30. 

SEX HYGIENE. 

465. Fisher, George E. Sex education in the Young men's Christian association. 

Social hygiene, 1: 226-30, March 1915. 

Says that physical training and religion, the one coupled with the other, strengthen the pre- 
sentation of sex instruction to men and boys. Y. M. C. A. is a pioneer in this work. 

466. How shall we teach sex? A symposium. Social hygiene, 1: 257-72, March 1915. 

Contains articles as follows: Sex education for children, by Laura B. Garrett; Parent- teacher 
cooperation in individual instruction, by F. H. Sill; A father's plan for sex instruction, by C. E. 
GaSney; and Sex instruction in a high school, by Grace F. EUis and T. D. Upton. 

PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

467. Leonard, Fred E. Pioneers of modem physical training. 2d ed., rev. and 

enl. New York, London, Association press, 1915. 159 p. ports. 12*. 
Contains 20 biographical sketches. 

SOCIAL ASPECTS OF EDUCATION. 

468. Childe, Elizabeth. Parents and education. Outlook, 109: 539-41, March 3, 

1915. 
Advocates the home and school movement. 

469. Palmer, Herbert H. Thrift in the high school. Education, 35: 422-26, March 

1915. 

What is being accomplished in the Boston high school of commerce. Describes the work of 
the school bank, and other activities that make for habits of saving and thrift. 



1 



CUEEENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 15 

CHILD WELFARE. 

470. Forbush, William Byron. The boy problem in the home. Boston, New York 

[etc.] The Pilgrim press [1915]. 287 p. 12°. 

VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE. 

471. Andrix, Iza Edith. An experiment in the making and use of furniture by sec- 

ond grade pupils. Manual training and vocational education, 16: 416-25, 
March 1915. 

472. Bawden, WiUiam T. The city superintendent of schools and vocational 

education. Educational administration and supervision, 1:157-64, March 1915. 

Thinks that the superintendent's stafE should be enlarged so that the superintendent can have 
time and energy to devote to the study of the new problems. Speaks of the need of reorganization 
of schools. Gives advice as to procedure for the superintendent taking up the question of 
vocational education, and finally speaks of some of the larger problems of administration. 

473. Fiichel, Hermann. Die handarbeit als erziehungsmittel bei J. J. Rousseau. 

Arbeitsschule, 28:329-36, 371-77, November-December 1914. 

Traces the idea of the educational value of manual training in Rousseau's writings and contends 
that most demands of modern educational reformers have been anticipated by Rousseau. 

By the same author: Die handarbeit als erziehungsmittel bei Locke. Archiv fiir philosophie, 
1914. 

474. Davenport, Eugene. What is involved in vocational education. Urbana, 

111., University of Illinois, 1915. 23 p. 8°. (University of Illinois bulletin, 
vol. 12, no. 19, January 11, 1915.) 

An address delivered before the Business section of the State teachers' association, Springfleld, 
m., December 30, 1914. 
Opposes a separate system of vocational schools. 

475. Dewey, John. Industrial education — a wiong kind. New republic, 2:71-73, 

February 20, 1915. 
A criticism of the Indiana law of 1913. 

476. Dooley, L. W. The educational scrap heap and the blind alley job : a vitally 

important economic and social problem. Scientific American supplement, 
79:170-71, March 13, 1915. 
Expresses the need of vocational education in the United States. 

477. Hill, David Spence. The problems of vocational guidance in the South. 

School and society, 1:257-63, February 20, 1915. 
Also reprinted as a separate pamphlet. 

478. James, Brother. The wooden horse of vocationaUsm. Catholic educational 

review, 9:233-45, March 1915. 

Writer says that the advocates of vocational education, by their attacks upon liberal education, 
give us to understand that a workable compromise between the humanistic and realistic in edu- 
cation can not be maintained. He thinks that if it is a question of one or the other, we should 
choose the liberal. "To argue for the adoption of a system that fills only commercial or industrial 
needs is to ignore the fact that man has other and crying needs. .. it is to disregard the longings 
and aspirations of men's souls; it is to dehumanize man; it is to set a market value upon him and 
liken him unto so much merchandise." 

479. McManis, J. T. Vocational training in Chicago schools. School review, 

23:145-58, March 1915. 

Discusses the advantages of the unit system of management. Presents statistical data of the 
schools. In eight of the high schools of Chicago there are full four-year courses in technical instruc- 
tion now in operation. The teachers, in the majority of cases, are "practical" men, the others 
being school men with college training in technical subjects but no trade experience. 

480. Pabst, A. Rousseau und die arbeitsschule. Arbeitsschule, 28:381-83, De- 

cember 1914. 



16 CURRENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

481. Richardson, W. Alfred. Some educational aspects of handcraft. Child 

(London), 5:258-61, February 1915. 
Psychological aspects of handwork. 

482. Roman, Frederick W. Control of the German vocational schools. Industrial- 

arts magazine, 3:112-16, March 1915. 

"This paper was read before the Vocational education association of the Middle West, February 
5, 1915. The author lived for several years in Germany and received his Doctor's degree from the 
University of Berlin." 

483. Waldo, Frank. The Beverly factory industrial school. Education, 35:432^5, 

March 1915. 

Work of the Beverly (Mass.) industrial school in cooperation with the United shoe machinery 
company, etc. A happy mean struck between the apprenticeship system and the town industrial 
school. 

484. "Wheatley, W. A. Vocational information for pupils in a small city high school. 

School review, 23:175-80, March 1915. 
Describes the course in vocational information in the high school of Middletown, Conn. 

485. Wirt, William. MTiat your child is best fitted to do. National association of 

corporation schools. Bulletin, 2:9-14, March 1915. 

An explanation of new educational features in public schools, by the vocational expert and 
superintendent of schools of Gary, Ind. 

SCHOOL GARDENS. 

486. Chapin, Elizabeth G. School gardens. Home progress, 4:919-24, March 1915. 

List of books on school gardens, p. 923-24. 

487. Hollingworth, G. H. Gardening for school children. Child (London) 5: 252- 

57, February 1915. 
Discusses gardening as an influence on character; methods of working a school garden, etc. 

488. Mills, Lewis S. School and home garden work. Normal instructor and pri- 

mary plans, 24: 32-33, 71, March 1915; 28-29, 68, April, 1915. 

489. Nature-study review, vol. 11, no. 2, February 1915. Special garden number. 

Contains: 1. Alice J. Patterson: Children's home gardens. 2. Ethel Gowans: Vegetable garden- 
ing for city children. 3. M. O. Evans, jr.: School and home gardening in Portland, Oregon, season 
of 1914. 4. Margaret Dolan: Beautifying work as nature-study. 5. Margaret Ahearne: Nature- 
Study in the Gary schools. 6. L. A. DeWolfe: The school fair an aid to gardening. 7. Ellen E. 
Shaw: Plants for class-rooms. 8. J. K. Stableton: Gardening at Bloomington, 111. 

HOME ECONOMICS. 

490. Brown, Edward F. Feeding school children in New York city. Journal of 

home economics, 7: 119-24, March 1915. 

Tells of the work of the New York school lunch committee, the first endowed school lunch service 
in this country. 

COMMERCLVL EDUCATION. 

491. Thompson, F. V. Commercial education in public secondary schools. 

Yonkers-on-Hudson, N. Y., World book company, 1915. 194 p. 8°. (School 
ef&ciency series, ed. by P. H. Hanus.) 

MEDICAL EDUCATION. 

492. Rosenau, M. J. Courses and degrees in public health work. Journal of the 

American medical association, 64: 794-96, March 6, 1915. 

Status of work in university organization. Discusses requirements, comses and degrees. Re- 
views work of school for health oflicers of Harvard university. 



CUREENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 17 

493. Vaughan, Victor C, chairman. Reorganization of clinical teaching. Journal 

of the American medical association, 64: 785-90, March 6, 1915. 

Compilation of reports of a special committee of the Council on medical education of the Ameri- 
can medical association. Read at the 11th annual conference of the Council, on February 16, 1915. 

Rational standards in medical instruction urged; hospital as essential adjunct to medical school; 
use of dispensary, etc. 

494. Vincent, George E. The university and higher degrees in medicine. Journal 

of the American medical association, 64: 790-94, March 6, 1915. 

Discusses the necessity for specialization; medical university e.xtension for postgraduate work, 
etc. 

MILITARY TRAINING. 

495. Schaeffer, Nathan C. Should our educational system include activities 

whose special purpose is preparation for war? School and society, 1 : 289-95, 
February 27, 1915. 

An address given before the Department of superintendence, Cincinnati, February 24, 1915. 

Does not approve of introducing military drill in the public schools. Thinks that it is harmful 
during boyhood and adolescence and should be postponed to the period when the youth has entered 
college or started upon his vocational career. 

EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 

496. Hazard, Caroline. Where the college fails the girl. Ladies' home journal, 

32:19, 72, March 1915. 
Advocates more training in the physical sciences, domestic science, and physical education. 

497. Hollingworth, Leta Stetter. Functional periodicity; an experimental study 

of the mental and motor abilities of women during menstruation. New York 
city, Teachers college, Columbia university, 1914. 101 p. diagrs. 8°. 
(Teachers college, Columbia university. Contributions to education, no. 69.) 
Bibliography: p. 100-101. 

498. Lietz, H. Deutsche landerziehungsheime fiir madchen. Schulhaus, 16: 

479-82, heft 11, 1914. 

NEGROES AND INDIANS. 

499. Adams, Elbridge L. The negro music school settlement. Southern workman, 

44: 161-65, March 1915. 

Describes the work of the Music school settlement for colored people, New York city. Encour- 
ages among negro pupils "the beauties and possibilities of their own racial music," etc. 

500. Hunter, Lucy E. Higher academic training for the Indian. Southern work- 

man, 44: 139-43, March 1915. 
A plea for the higher education of the Indian. 

DEFECTIVE AND DELINQUENT CHILDREN. 

501. Bronner, Augusta F. A comparative study of the intelligence of delinquent 

girls. New York city. Teachers college, Columbia university, 1914. 95 p. 8°. 
(Teachers college, Columbia university. Contributions to education, no. 68). 
Bibliography: p. 88. 

502. MacMurchy, Helen. Organization and management of auxiliary classes. 

[Toronto] L. K. Cameron, 1915. 212 p. illus. 12°. (Ontario. Department 
of education. Educational pamphlets, no. 7.) 
Bibliography: p. 191-207. 

503. WiUiams, J. Harold. A study of 150 delinquent boys. Stanford university, 

Cal., 1915. 15 p. 8". (Stanford university. Department of education. 
Research laboratory of the Biickel foundation. Bulletin no. 1, February 1915.) 
Part of a general survey of the Whittier state school at Whittier, Cal. 



18 CUBBENT EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 

LIBRARIES AND READING. 

504. Cabot, Ella Lyman. Children's reading as a help in training character. 

American schoolmaster, 8:49-65, February 1915. 
Suggests two plans for increasing the life-giving influence of literature. 

505. Johnston, Williani Da-wson. The school librarian — training and statue. 

Minnesota public library commission library notes and news, 4: 157-60, March 
1915. 

506. Lewis, George L. Teaching children how to use the library. Publiclibraries, 

20: 121-23, March 1915. 
Presented at the Stockbridge meeting of the Massachusetts library club, October 23, 1914. 
Gives an outline for an hour's exercise on how to use the library. 

BUREAU OF EDUCATION: RECENT PUBLICATIONS. 

507. Education for the home; by Benjamin R. Andrews. Part II. The states and 

education for the home, rural schools, elementary schools, high schools, normal 
schools, technical institutions, various agencies and organizations. Washing- 
ton, 1915. 207 p. plates. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 37.) 

508. Education for the home; by Benjamin R. Andrews. Part III. Colleges and 

universities. Washington, 1915. 109 p. plates. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 38.) 

509. Education for the home; by Benjamin R. Andrews. Part IV. List of references 

on education for the home, cities and towns teaching household arts. Wash- 
ington, 1915. 61 p. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 39.) 

510. The educational musemn of the St. Louis public schools; by Carl G. Rathmann. 

Washington, 1915. 55 p. plates. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 48.) 

511. Efficiency and preparation of rural school teachers; by Harold W. Foght. 

Washington, 1915. 54 p. plates. (Bulletin, 1914, no. 49.) 

512. The health of school children. Contributions from American medical journals, 

July, 1913, to July, 1914; compiled by W. H. Heck. Washington, 1915. 156 p. 
(Bulletin, 1915, no. 4.) 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note.— AVith the exceptions indicated, the documents named l<elow will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may he had of the Superin tender ' of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print. 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmaim. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 

tNo. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

tNo. 4. The elimination of pupUs from school. Edward L. Thorndike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. Liberty H. Bailey. 

tNo. 2. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 

tNo. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

tNo. 7. State school systems: 11. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 190S. Edward C. Elliott. 
fNo. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the 

State, 1907-8. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
♦No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Bunt. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thorndike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
*No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1S67-1907. 
♦No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
♦No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

♦No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1908-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

♦No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
tNo. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 
♦No. 5. American schooLhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 cts. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 



II BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

♦No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 5 cts. 

tNo. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. M illiam C. Euediger. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the jublic schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and uni^ersities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for lt09-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years lfiOS-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently leconsiructed. Barry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States- 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
tNo. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. Harlan Updegraff. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

*No. 1. A course of study for the preparation of rural-school teachers. E.MutchlerandW . J. Craig, icts. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Earlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 
*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. 5 cts. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12.] 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics, No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrick. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
♦No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics. No. TI. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
♦No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
♦No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. 6 cts. 
♦No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegraff and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high schools. 

tNo. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. G. Mudge. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. HI. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkan.sas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
♦No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in \^'ake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Chas. Goldzflier. 

No. 30. Latin-American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
tNo. 31. Educational directory. 1912. 

tNo. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
♦No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 
♦No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 
♦No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 

No. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION". UI 

*No. 6. Agricultural instruction in high schools. ('. H. Rohison and F. B. Jenks. 10 ets. 

♦No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*No. S. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

tNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

tNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

tNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

♦No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efficiency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

tNo. 14. Agricultiu-al instruction in secondary schools. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

♦No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 ets. 

tNo. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary in^ -stigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 
♦No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
♦No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
♦No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
♦No. 22. Biltliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
♦No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga. , for the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
♦No. 24. A comparison of public education ia Germany and in the United States. Georg Kerschensteiner. 

5 cts. 
♦No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
tNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

♦No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
♦No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
♦No. 30. Education ia the South. 10 cts. 
♦No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. \ 

tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
♦No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
♦No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
♦No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives oi Alaska, 1911-12. 10 eta. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational puldications, October, 1913. 
♦No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. HaUmann.- 
♦No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
♦No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
♦No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational puMicaiions, November, 1913. 
♦No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

♦No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
♦No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Mpnahan and Adams PhiUlps. 
♦No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 10 cts. 
♦No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
♦No. 52. Sanitary schooUiouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, October 1, 1909, to October 1, 1912. James 

('. Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 
tNo. 67. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914 

♦No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
♦No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfield. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk Jiigh schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational pulilications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. R. W. Stimsoo. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, AprU, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and scliool progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications. May, 1914. 
*No. 12. Rural schooLhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 60 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
*No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 50 cts. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flarmagan. 

No. 18. The public school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Biuris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges, 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1911. 
♦No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 15 cts. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home— Part I. General statement. B.R.Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Parfll. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 40 Care of the health of boys in Girard Colleje, Philadelphia, P.\. 

No. 41. Monthly record of ctirrent educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural-school teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No 50. Statistics of State .universities and State colleges. 

1916. 

No. 1. Cooking m the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 

No. 4. The health of school children. W. H. Heck. 

No. 5. Organization of State departments of education. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 6. A study of colleges and high schools. 

No. 7. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Samuel P. Capen. 

No. 8. Present status of the honor system in colleges and universities. Bird T. Baldwin. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1915. 

o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915, NO. II WHOLE NUMBER 636 



A STATISTICAL STUDY OF THE 

PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE SOUTHERN 

APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS 

By NORMAN FROST 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFHCE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAT BE PROCXIRED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

5 CENTS PER COPY 
V 



CONTENTS. 



Letter of transmittal 5 

Introduction 7 

General characteristics 7 

Illiteracy 10 

School enrollment attendance 11 

Length of school term 13 

Average number of days each child attends 15 

Teachers 16 

Schoolhouses 22 

School expenditures 25 

Private schools 27 

Summary 28 

3 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Department of the Interior, 

Bureau of Education, 

Washington, March 19, 1915. 

Sir: The southern Appalachian Mountain region is rich in resources. 
Its population contains a larger per cent of native-bom white persons 
than that of any other section of the United States. The great 
majority of these are of the sturdiest stocks — English, Irish, Scotch, 
German, and French Huguenot. The energy, native abihty, and 
patriotism of these people are known to the world. Yet, because of 
historical and geographical reasons, the section as a whole is backward 
in development, and a large per cent of the people are illiterate. 
Here, as elsewhere, and probably to a greater degree than in any other 
section of this country, the development of natural resources and the 
turning of potential wealth into actual wealth must depend on the 
education and training of the people. To this end the people are 
eager to help themselves, and people of other sections are willing to 
help them. But neither self-help nor the efforts of others can have 
the best results without a better understanding of present conditions, 
needs, and tendencies and of the difficulties inherent in the situation. 
To set these forth to some extent, clearly and accurately, is the 
purpose of the accompanying manuscript, prepared as the result of a 
study undertaken for the Bureau of Education by Norman Frost, 
whose experience in connection with Berea College, Berea, Ky., 
equips him unusually well for this work. Mr. Frost did not attempt 
to make this study exhaustive. To do this would have required 
more time than was at his command and more funds than the bureau 
had available for this purpose. It is, however, the most extensive 
study of education in this section yet undertaken, and is as accurate 
as the material at hand would permit. Delay in publication makes 
some of the figures out of date by one or two years, but it is not now 
possible to bring them up to date. I recommend that the manu- 
script be published as a bulletin of the Bureau of Education. 

Respectfully submitted. 

P. P. Claxton, 

Commissioner. 

The Secretary of the Interior. 

6 



A STATISTICAL STUDY OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE 
SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS/ 



rNTRODUCTION. 



Information concerning educational conditions in the southern 
Appalachian region is scattered, fragmentary, and often partisan to 
the assumption either that conditions are ideal or that they are in- 
conceivably bad. The purpose of this study is to draw together the 
available facts in the case. Necessarily, this study is largely 
statistical. 

The territory covered has been selected with the advice of school 
men familiar with conditions in the respective States. Practically 
all of this mountain region is included in 216 counties, lying in the 
8 States of Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South 
Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. These are referred 
to in the following pages as the '^ Appalachian Counties." Many of 
them are only partially mountainous, but are included because they 
lie wholly within the Appalachian region. Of these 216 counties, 98 
are referred to as the "mountain counties." These include the more 
rugged counties, where the topography and economic conditions are 
most unfavorable to progress in education. 

The data used in the tables are taken from the Federal Census of 
1910 and from the school reports of the respective States. In every 
instance the latest information available has been used. In the course 
of the study six counties were visited. These were selected counties 
which might be considered as representative of the different types. 

The counties visited were Buchanan and Wise in Virginia; and 
Blount, Cumberland, Hancock, and Hawkins in Tennessee. 

Special thanks are due the county superintendents of these counties 
and the school officials of the respecive States, for the valuable assist- 
ance they have given in obtaining desired information. 

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS. 

The southern Appalachian region contains about 100,000 square 
miles. It is almost as large as the New England States and New 
York State combined; it is larger than the State of Oregon. This 
region extends in a northeasterly direction from a point south of 
Birmingham, Ala., to Maryland and Pennsylvania; and from the 

'Made in 1913. Data included was the latest available at that time — Editor. 



8 SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 

Blue Ridge in the east to a rather indefinite line on the west, running 
near the middle of Tennessee and Kentucky, and the western side of 
West Virginia. 

The character of this region varies greatly. There are broad, 
fertile valleys and narrow gorges; rough, precipitous mountains, and 
high, rolling plateaus; rich blue-grass land, and barren hillsides. 
The Shenandoah Valley, or, as it is often called, the Valley of Virginia, 
is one of the most fertile valleys in the country. Its inhabitants will 
tell you that it is the "dimple of the universe; a modern Garden of 
Eden." Many of the counties lying largely in the valley include also 
parts of the Blue Ridge and of the Shenandoah Mountains. 

Wise County, Va., made famous by the stories of John Fox, jr., 
is in the main a rough, mountainous, mining county; yet a 40-acre 
farm about haK a mile south of Coeburn sold for $10,700 in the 
spring of 1913. Coeburn is a village of less than 700 inhabitants. 
There are, too, some 30 or 40 square miles of blue-grass land in the 
southern part of the county. 

Hancock County, Tenn., is considered a rough, mountainous county. 
It has no railroad, nor even a "pike." Yet some of the valley land 
in Hancock is held at $175 or $200 an acre. 

In the same way each of the counties might be considered. In 
each county there is diversity of conditions, and between different 
counties there is a stiU greater diversity. Any description of moun- 
tain conditions that takes into account only one kind of country 
must be partial and inadequate. 

Mineral, timber, and water rights in the Appalachians are of great 
value. In most instances these rights are owned by outside interests. 
Large parts of the coal fields of West Virginia, Virginia, and Ken- 
tucky were bought for 50 cents an acre; $5 was a very high price to 
pay. Timber was sold for prices almost as low, and water rights 
were practically given away. The natural resources of the moun- 
tains, where they are developed, have brought employment to the 
mountain people, but their real value has gone, or is going, to the 
capitahst outside of this region. 

The people of the mountains vary as much as the country itself. 
There are in the entire region more than 4,300,000 persons, about 
600,000 of whom live in cities of 2,500 inhabitants or more. Among 
other cities are Asheville, N. C, Birmingham, Ala., Chattanooga and 
Knoxville, Tenn., and Roanoke, Va. It is true there are feudists and 
moonshiners in some localities, but the region is also the home of 
some of the best-known statesmen, lawyers, ministers, physicians, 
teachers, and merchants in the United States as well as of hosts of 
law-abiding citizens in different walks of hfe. It is as difficult to 
find a typical mountaineer as it is to find a typical New Yorker or 
New Englander. 



GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS. 9 

Table 1. — Percentages of native whites of native parentage in the Appalachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Per cent of total population. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 
South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


50-52 


2 
















2 


52-54 














1 


1 


54-56 


















56-58 




















58-60 


1 
1 












1 




2 


60-62 












1 


62-64 


















64-66 












1 






1 


66-68 










2 

1 


1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
1 
3 
3 
1 
3 
1 
2 
3 
5 
4 
3 
3 


i' 

i" 

4' 

1 

4 
1 
2 
2 
2 

6 


3 


6S-70 










2 


70-72 


2 
1 


1 






4 


72-74 










4 


74-76 


1 






1 




4 


76-78 








1 


78-80 


1 

2 








1 




6 


80-82 


1 




1 


7 


82-84 




1 

1 
3 
5 
4 

10 
7 
9 
5 


2 


84-86 








3 
3 

1 
6 




11 




2 

4 


2 
1 
4 
3 
2 
2 
4 


1 
1 

i' 

6 
3 
19 


13 


88-90 


18 


90-92 


18 


92-94 


2 
1 
2 
1 


23 


94-96 


3 

7 
1 




25 


96-98 


28 


98-100 


39 








22 


21 


31 


125 


5 


46 


40 


25 


2 215 



1 Avery County has been formed since 1910 from parts of Caldwell, Mitchell, and Watauga Counties. 

» Of the 215 counties, 204 have higher percentages of native whites of native parentage than their respective 
States. The percentages for the States are: Alabama, 55.1; Georgia, 53.3; Kentucky, 81.4; North Caro- 
lina, 67.3; South Carolina, 43.7; Tennessee, 75.7; Virginia, 64.3; West Virginia, 85.3. 

In origin these people do not differ materially from the rest of the 
people in the States in which these mountains lie. The stock is, in 
the main, Scotch-Irish, with a few communities of Dutcii and of 
Huguenots. 

Most of the farmers own their land. In no county does the per- 
centage of farms operated by owners drop below 28 per cent, and it 
runs as high as 92.8 per cent in one county in Virginia. In the differ- 
ent States the percentages in the mountain counties vary as follows : * 

Percentage of farmers in mountain comities who own their farms. 

Per cent. 

Alabama 30. 8 to 76. 3 

Georgia 28. 6 to 68. 9 

Kentucky 41. 9 to 75. 9 

North Carolina 52. 1 to 84. 4 

South Carolina 28. to 40. 

Tennessee 47. 6 to 86. 6 

Virginia 58. 9 to 92. 8 

West Virginia 42. 4 to 90. 

Land values vary from practically nothing to about S200 per acre. 
In 63 of the 216 counties the average value is less than SIO. In no 
case is the averajre more than 



87412'= 



'1910 census. 



10 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



A large majority of the people are native whites, and of native 
parentage. In the 98 "mountain" counties 94.1 per cent are of this 
class. In the entire region this percentage is 83.6, while in the 8 
States taken together it is only 65.3. Table 1 shows the variation 
among the 216 counties. It is interesting to note that there are 39 
coimties in which 98 per cent or more of the people are native whites 
of native parentage. A high percentage of native whites is usually a 
result of isolation. 

ILLITERACY. 

Of the native white people 10 years of age or over in 1910, 15.9 per 
cent in the 98 "mountain counties" were illiterate; 12.6 per cent in 
the 216 "Appalachian counties" were illiterate; and 9.3 per cent in 
the eight States were illiterate. 

In interpreting these figures it must be remembered that those for 
the entire States include the "Appalachian" counties, and those for 
the "Appalachian" counties include the "mountain" counties. The 
rate of white illiteracy for the eight States, excluding the Appalachian 
counties, is therefore much lower than 9.3 per cent. Data to deter- 
mine how much lower were not available at the time this study was 
made. 

Table 2 shows the distribution of the 216 Appalachian counties 
among the native white population 10 years of age or over in regard 
to their percentages of illiteracy. 

Table 2. — Percentages of illiteracy among native whites over 10 years of age in the Appa- 
lachian counties. 



Per cent of native white 
illiterates 10 years of age 
and over. 


Number of counties. 


In Ala- 

I'ama. 


In 

Georgia. 


In 
Ken- 
tucky. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 
South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 
West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


0-2 














1 
2 
4 
6 
6 
2 
6 
5 
2 
4 


i 

9 
4 
4 
2 

1 
2 
2 


1 


2-4 . 


1 












4 


4-6 










1 

1 
5 
7 
9 
U 
7 
3 
1 
1 


14 


6-8 




1 
3 
3 

? 
2 








12 


g-10 


2 

7 
8 


1 
1 
1 
3 
3 
7 
5 
4 
2 
2 
1 


2 
4 
2 
6 
3 
5 
2 
1 


i' 

3" 

1 


23 


10-12 


27 


12-14 


30 


14-16 


37 


16-18 


4 


24 


18-20 


19 


00-22 




2 


10 


22 24 








6 


24-26 










2 


26-28 
















2 


28-30 












1 




2 


30-32 














32 34 




















34-36 






1 








1 




2 
















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


31 


25 


5 


46 


40 


25 


1215 



> Of the 215 counties, 167 exceed the percentages of their respective States. The State percentages are: 
Alaliama, 9.9; Georgia, 7.8; Kentucky, 10; North Carolina, 12.3; South Carolina, 10.3; Tennessee, 9.7; 
Virginia, 8; West Virginia, 6.4. 

The illiteracy among native whites is used for comparison, because 
the figures for total illiteracy are so greatly complicated by the pres- 
ence of large numbers of negroes thi'oughout some parts of the eight 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



States and the relatively small number in the mountains, 
of the Appalachians are almost wholly native whites. 



11 

The people 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND ATTENDANCE. 

There are more than 1,500,000 children between the ages of 6 and 
20, inclusive, in the Appalachian region. Of these, 65.9 per cent are 
reported as enrolled in school. In the 98 mountain counties, 72.3 per 
cent are so reported; in the eight States all together only 63.6 per cent. 

These figures indicate that a larger proportion of the children are en- 
rolled in school in the Appalachian region than in the entire eight States 
in general, and that in the mountain counties the enrollment is greatest 
of all. While there are many chances for inaccuracies in the figures 
themselves, those who know the section best are agreed that there is a 
high enrollment; the average attendance, however, is low. There is 
undoubtedly some duplication in enrollment; that is, the same child 
may be enrolled in two or more schools during the year. School dis- 
trict lines are not very definite, and a boy or girl who does not like 
one teacher may try another school. One boy told with glee of 
having been "fired" from three schools in two weeks' time. There is 
seldom any checking up of the school enrollment to prevent such a 
boy from attending and being enrolled in more than one school. It 
happens also more or less frequently that teachers fail to report the 
enrollment in their schools. The county superintendent usually 
makes an estimate. Influenced as he is by a very laudable desire 
to make his county compare favorably with other counties, one may 
readily see that his estimate wiU not be too low. But this practice 
is probably little more common in these counties than elsewhere in 
these States, and in many other States. 

Table 3 shows the number of counties reporting the various per- 
centages of enrollment. 

Table 3. — Number of children (6 to 20 years of age) enrolled from every 100 in the Appa- 
lachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Enrolled from every 100 per- 
sons 6 to 20 years of age. 


In Ala- 
bama.' 


In 

Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia.! 


In 
West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


40-15 


1 
1 
2 
3 
6 
3 
3 
2 
















1 


45-50 












3 
1 

3 
13 
12 
5 
1 
1 
1 


i" 

2 
5 
6 
9 
2 


4 


50-55 


1 








1 


5 


55-60 


2 
3 
2 
2 
10 

1 
1 


2 
3 
4 
5 
3 
1 
3 
1 
1 




11 


60-65 


2 
3 
7 
4 
2 
1 
1 


2 
3 


2 
5 

12 
10 
9 
4 
3 


33 


65-70 


37 


70-75 


40 


75-80 


39 


80-85 


22 


85-90 




10 


90-95 




6 


95-100 


1 






2 


















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


S28 


»23 


5 


46 


40 


25 


210 



' In Alabama and Virginia the school age begins at 7 years. In this table it has been reckoned from 6 
years. 

« In Kentucky 3 counties are not reported; and in North Carolina 4 counties, Avery. Caldwell, Mitchell, 
and Wautauga, have been grouped and treated as 1 county. 



12 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



The statement is frequently made that large numbers of children 
in the mountains are entirely out of reach of any school. Unfortu- 
nately, no figures are available in regard to this point. An estimate 
seems the best that can be done here. In the six counties personally 
investigated the county superintendents estimated that a total of 115 
children were not, and had not been, within reach of any school; that 
is, according to their estimate, 115 children in six counties had no 
opportimity to attend any school. This represents the number of 
such children known to school authorities and is probably a very 
conservative estimate. If these six counties may be considered as 
representative, there would be in the 216 counties 4,167 children out of 
reach of school. This is only a little over twenty-seven one-hun- 
dredths of 1 per cent of the 1,510,286 children in the entire region. 
The estimate might be doubled, or even trebled, and still be less than 
1 per cent. 

That this is a serious condition no one would deny. It is not so 
bad, however, as is sometimes supposed. In most instances in the 
six counties visited plans were well in hand to meet the situation. In 
only one county was this not so. In that county the superintendent 
was definitely committed to the policy of first building schools in 
communities where the people wanted new buildings and where they 
were willing to help construct them. The children who have no 
schools are usually in communities where the people do not care. 

In average attendance the mountain region does not report quite 
as well as the 8 States in general, and the 98 mountain counties 
report slightly less than the entire region. In the 8 States, 63.6 
pupils, on the average, from every 100 enrolled, attend daily; in the 
216 ^ counties of the Appalacliian region, 63.1 pupils; and in the 98 * 
mountain counties, only 61.2 pupils. 

Table 4. — Numbers of children attending daily from every 100 enrolled in the Appalachian 

counties. 





Number of counties. 


Attending daily from every 
100 enrolled. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 

Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 

i^orth 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 










1 
1 










1 


















1 




1 
2 
3 
5 

8 
2 

1 




2 
5 
7 
4 
3 
3 




1 


1 




5 




1 
3 

10 
6 
1 






8 


50-55 


2 
6 
3 

1 
3 

2 


1 
2 
1 

i' 


2 

io' 

15 
10 
3 


1 
8 
15 
10 
4 

i' 


i' 

7 
13 
2 
1 
1 


19 


65-60 


36 


60-65 


53 


65-70 


51 


70-75 


19 


75-80 






7 










4 












1 
3 
1 


1 


















3 


















1 




















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


324 


26 


5 


46 


40 


25 1 209 



' Information from 6 of these counties in Kentucky is not available, 
s Information from 5 of the 98 coimties is not available. 
« In Kentucky information is not available from 7 counties. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



13 



Fortunately, in this case, we have also the figures for white attend- 
ance only. In the 8 States, the average daily attendance is 64 per 
cent of the total enrollment; in the 216 counties, 63.8 per cent; in 
the 98 counties, 61.3 per cent. These figures show the same tendency 
as those for the total attendance of white and colored. 

The percentages of attendance of the Appalachian counties are 
shown in Table 4. 

The low percentage of attendance is explained, in part at least, by 
Table 5, showing the irregularity of attendance in certain schools. 
The usual decrease in average attendance during the latter months 
should be noted. 

Table 5. — Monthly average attendance in certain 1-room schools in the southern 

Appalachians.^ 





Months. 


States and counties. 


First. 


Sec- 
ond. 


Third. 


Fourth. 


Fifth. 


Sixth. 


Sev- 
enth. 


Eighth. 


Ninth. 


Alabama: 

Talladega 


15 
28 

42 
37 
14 
25 
19 
21 
16 
3* 

20 
23 

14 
6 
26 
17 
21 
24 
11 
15 
35 
27 

32 
46 
8 
16 
19 
31 


24 
32 

36 
34 
26 
27 
21 
20 
11 
31 

18 
24 

16 
6 
24 
15 
19 
22 
19 
19 
36 
26 

36 
47 
8 
17 
18 
31 


40 
35 

24 
28 
25 
30 
22 
21 
12 
24 

17 
23 

17 
12 
19 
15 
19 
19 
30 
26 
32 
18 

36 
50 
6 
14 
15 
28 


28 
27 

19 

28 
20 
23 


29 
19 


20 
15 


30 
14 












North Carolina: 

Jackson 


















Rutherford 














21 










Wilkes 
























Graham 


12 
21 

15 
20 

15 
12 
14 
18 
17 
21 
23 
25 
26 
20 

33 
50 
8 
14 
14 
18 
























Tennessee: 

Unicoi 


12 

19 

15 
15 
15 
18 
20 
23 
18 
23 
25 
23 

32 
49 
8 
14 
11 
21 


13 
18 
















Virginia: 

Rockbridge 




















14 
15 
21 
20 
11 
19 
26 


15 
15 
19 
24 


15 
15 


15 


Warren 


14 








Botetourt 








17 






Buchanan 














West Virginia: 

McDowell 


30 
46 
6 
11 
13 
22 


28 
46 


27 
30 




Mercer 












MinArnl 

























1 Takea from special reports of county superintendents relative to the monthly attendance in 1-teacher 
schools for the year 1912-13. Data from individual schools were submitted. The figures used here are 
those given for the first two 1-room schools that were listed by the county superintendents. Each county 
is reported from which information was available. 

LENGTH OF SCHOOL TERM. 

The average length of school terms in these 216 counties varies 
from 65 to 180 days. Table 7 shows this variation. For the rural 
schools of the United States the average term was 137 * days in 1910. 
For the 8 States in which the Appalachians he the average length of 
school term is 123 ^ days; for the Appalachian counties it is 112 ^ 

> Bulletin, 1913, No. 8, U. S. Bureau of Education. 

• These figures are averages of county and State averages, respectively. 



14 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



days, and for the 98 moimtaiii counties 104 ^ days. The mountain 
schools are seriously deficient in this respect. 

Table 6. — Different lengths of school term in four mountain counties} 



Length of school term, in days. 



Less than 80. 

80-85 , 

85-90 

90-95 

95-100 

100-105 

105-110 

110-115 

115-120 

120-125 

125-130 

130-135 

135-140 

140-145 

145-150 

150-155 

155-160 

160-165 

165-170 

170-175 

175-180 

180 or more.. 



Number of schools. 



In 

Hancock 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In 

Hawkins 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In 

Wise 

County, 

Va., 

1912. 



In 

Jackson 

County, 

N. C, 

1913. 



» Blount and Cumberland Counties, Tenn., report a term of 110 days for all schools. 
Table 7. — Average lengths of school term in the Appalachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Average length of school 
term, in days. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Georgia. 


InKen- 

tucky.i 


In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 














1 






1 










1 
1 
9 
2 
2 








1 


7'i_5Jft 
















1 


gQ_g5 


1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
5 
4 


1 
1 

1 
3 
6 
5 
1 
1 




4" 

i' 


5 
3 
5 
6 
8 
2 
3 
2 
1 
2 
3 
1 
1 






16 


85-90 






11 


90-95 






9 


95-100 


2 
4 
3 
5 
3 
3 
6 
6 
2 
3 
2 
1 


i" 

3 

1 

7 
3 
4 
2 
1 


14 


100-105 


1 
1 
6 
7 
5 
3 
3 
1 
2 


4 
2 
1 

1 
2 


25 


105-110 


19 


110-115 


23 


115-120 


15 


120-125 


2 
2 


20 


125-130 




16 


^^v\ ^'^'\ 


1 






17 


135-140 


1 






7 


140-145 


1 


1 




9 


145-150 


1 


3 


150-155 












1 














2 


2 


160 165 














1 


1 














1 




1 


170-175 














1 


1 




















180 
















1 


1 




















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


29 


26 


5 


46 


40 


25 


214 



1 Information not available from 2 counties in Kentucky. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



15 



Not only does the length of the school term vary m different 
counties, but frequently it varies widely in the same county. Table 
6 shows this variation for four counties. As this table indicates, 
a mere statement of average length of session has very little real 
significance, since it fails to show either the best or the worst 
conditions. 

The length of school term is increasing aU through the Appalachian 
region. State laws and increased taxation are both factors in bring- 
ing about this increase. In Hancock County the average term has 
been increased from three to five months in the last eight years. In 
every county investigated such an mcrease is taking place. This 
increase must be very great to make the school term of this region 
equal even to the average of rural schools throughout the United 
States. 

AVERAGE NUMBER OF DATS EACH CHILD ATTENDS. 

Table 8 shows the variation in the number of days' schooling the 
average child receives in different counties. 

Table 8. — Numbers of days the average child 6-20 attends in the Appalachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Days the average child 
attends school. 


In 

Ala- 
bama. 


In 

Georgia. 


In 
Ken- 
tucky. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


20-25 


1 
1 
3 
5 
6 
1 
4 






2 
1 
3 
3 
4 
4 


3* 

1 

1 


1 
1 

I' 

4 
5 
10 
4 
3 
6 
5 
1 






4 


25-30 










3 


30-35 


4 

3 
3 

7 
3 


1 
2 
4 
5 
6 
2 
2 
1 


4 
4 
3 
7 
10 
7 
2 
1 
2 


i' 

6 
5 
3 
6 
2 
2 


18 


35-40 


22 


40-45 


25 


45-50 


30 


50-55 


39 


55-60 


4 




22 


60-65 


1 


1 


12 


65-70 






14 


70-75 






1 




10 


75-80 








3 


80-S5 








1 




1 


85-90 










2 






2 




















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


123 


123 


5 


46 


40 


25 


205 



1 Information is not available from 8 counties in Kentucky; and Avery, Caldwell, Mitchell, and Watauga 
Counties, in North Carolina, have been grouped together and treated as 1 county. 

The three items of enrollment, attendance, and length of term are 
aU brought together in showing the average number of days that 
each child attends school during a single year. In the entire eight 
States this average is 49.9 days; in the 216 counties of the Appa- 
lachian region it is 48.3; and in the 98 mountain counties it is 46. 
The figures show a slight lack of schooling for the children of the 
Appalachian region as compared with children throughout the States 
in which this region lies. When the comparison is made for white 



16 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



children only, the lack of schooling in the mountains becomes larger 
in proportion to the number for white children outside. 

Stated differently, the average 20-year-old person in the mountain 
region has attended school only long enough to complete the fourth 
grade of a city school. Making allowance for poor teachers, poor 
equipment, and the irregularity of attendance, the average moun- 
taineer actually has not had schooling equivalent to that of a child 
who has completed the fourth grade in a city school. This is true 
of the present generation of young people in this region; the older 
people have received even less. 

TEACHERS. 

There are almost 25,000 teachers in the southern Appalachian re- 
gion. It is impossible to make any definite statement concerning 
their training that will apply to all of the States. Methods of exami- 
nation and certification vary so much that the percentage of first-grade 
certificates does not represent the same thing. In none of these 
eight States does a second-grade county certificate require more 
than the completion of the elementary school course. 

In Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, and West 
Virginia, certificates are issued on State-wide examinations, in which 
the same questions are used for first, second, and third grade ^ certifi- 
cates, while higher marks are required for the higher certificates. In 
Alabama certificates are issued on State-wide examination, with dif- 
ferent questions for the applicants for different grades of certificates. 
Of the 3,416 teachers in the Appalachian section of the State, 1,066, 
or 31 per cent, hold third-grade certificates. The percentage in indi- 
vidual counties varies from to 54. 

Figures for the Appalachian counties in several States are indi- 
cated below. The percentages for those holding third-grade certifi- 
cates only are given. In most instances this represents no further 
education than that which may be received in the schools in which 
the individuals concerned are teaching. 



Teachers holding third-grade certificata 


. 








Alabama. 


Georgia. 


Ken- 
tucky. 


South 
Carolina. 


West 
VirgLoia. 


Per cent of teachers holding third-grade certificate. . . 


31 
0-54 


28 
0-61 


10 
0^2 


6 
1-11 


16 
6-27 







While these percentages represent, in general, undesirable teach- 
ers, it must be borne in mind that the figures are not comparable 
between States. It is not at aU certain that more of the teachers are 
undesirable in West Virginia than in South Carolina. 

> The third-grade is the lowest grade of certificate given. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



17 



In Virginia certificates are issued on State-wide examinations, 
the same for the first, second, and third grades, save that there are 
additional subjects for higher certificates. A little over 17 per cent 
of the teachers in the Appalachian counties hold third-grade certi- 
ficates, and the percentage in individual counties varies from to 39. 

In Tennessee certificates in the past have been issued by the 
county superintendents on examinations prepared and graded by 
themselves. The law has now been changed, and State-wide exam- 
inations will be given there in the future. 

The reports from Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, 
and West Virginia show the number and percentage of teachers with 
some normal school training in those States. The facts in this 
respect are indicated below. This includes graduates and those 
who have had but a single summer school course as well. Very few 
are normal graduates. 





Georgia. 


North 
Carolina. 


Tennes- 
see. 


Virgin ia.i 


West 
Virginia. 


Per cent of teachers in Appalachian counties with 


15 
0-49 


39 
7-93 


5 
0-26 


15 
0-39 


7 


Variation of this percentage among counties 


0-42 







1 In Virginia these figures are for teachers holding first-grade or higher certificates. 

Supervision of teachers in service, in the strict sense of the word, 
is very rare. In West Virginia a system of supervision by magiste- 
rial districts is being developed, and in Kentucky assistants to the 
county superintendents are appointed in some of the counties. 
Experiments in these particulars are being made in some of the other 
States, but in the main the entire supervision is given by the county 
superintendents. 

In all of the States except North Carolina the county superintendent 
must be a legal resident of the county in which he serves. The county 
board of North Carolina may secure a superintendent from outside of 
the county or State. In any of the States it is practically impossible 
for the county superintendent to do more than visit each school once, 
or possibly twice, during the school year. The average number of 
white schools in an Appalachian county is 76. The average length 
of the school term is 112 days. By the time a superintendent has 
attended to necessary office work he is fortunate if he can spend more 
than two or three hours in each school during the entire year. Such 
visits as he is able to make, even in the case of competent men, can 
amount to httle more than the most cursory inspection. In practice, 
at any rate, it seldom amounts to more. 

Teachers' institutes of about a week's duration are very generally 
held in each county of the Appalachian regions, as in other counties in 
the States. These institutes are usually held during the summer, 



18 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



with one or more instructors employed from outside of the county. 
The value of such institutes depends largely on the men employed. 

Teachers' training courses in connection with the county high 
schools have been held in a few instances. Cumberland County, 
Tenn,, may be given as an example. The teacher- training coiu'se 
in 1913 lasted four months. The work began in February, after the 
country schools closed, and was in charge of the county superin- 
tendent. The course was open to any teachers, or any who expected 
to become teachers. The work consisted largely of reviews of the 
elementary subjects, with emphasis on methods of instruction. 
Teachers were allowed to take a part of the normal work, and to 
spend the rest of their time in the regular high-school courses if they 
desired to do so. Over 30 of the teachers of the county enrolled. 

In several counties throughout the Appalachian section private 
schools are giving special courses for training teachers. For example, 
in Blount County, Tenn., there were two private institutions doing 
normal work. In the other four counties visited there were no 
facilities for professional training. 

Teachers' salaries vary a great deal, not only from county to 
county, but also within a single county. Table 9 shows the variation 
of the average annual salary in different counties, and Table 10 shows 
the variation of salaries within seven counties that were investigated 
in this respect. 

Table 9. — Average salaries paid teachers in the Appalachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Average salary paid teach- 
ers for school year. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 
West 
Vu-- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


$100-$120 




4 
3 
5 

1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
1 


i" 

7 

10 
7 
3 
2 


4 
6 
4 
3 
3 
4 


i' 


1 
1 

8 
9 
3 
10 
1 
3 
3 
1 
1 






9 


8120-8140 




1 

2 

I 
2 
5 

8 
5 
3 

1 
2 


i 

4 
1 
3 
5 
2 
2 

3" 

i' 


11 


$140-$160 




19 


$160-8180 




16 


$180-8200 




14 


$200-8220 


3 

4 
3 
2 
2 
3 
1 

1 


25 


8220-8240 . ... 


15 


8240-8260 




4 


29 


$260-8280 


26 


8280-8300 






15 


8300-8320 








10 


8320-8340 








5 


$340-8360 










4 


8360-8380 




1 


1 




2 

1 


1 


5 


8380-8400 


1 




3 


8400-8420 












$420-8440 




1 














1 


8440-8460 










1 


1 


3 


5 


8460-8480 


1 










1 


8480-8500 


















$500-8520 


1 
















1 




















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


31 


»25 


5 


145 


40 


25 


214 



1 One county in Tennessee repoi1;s an average salary of 8655, and 1 in North Carolina reports an aver- 
age of $56. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 19 

Table 10. — Salaries received by teachers in seven Appalachian counties. 



Salarias lor school year. 



Teachers — 



In 

Blount 

County, 

Tenn.ji 

1913. 



In 
Buch- 
anan 
County, 
Va.," 
1913. 



In 
Cumber- 
land 
County, 
Tenn., 
1913. 



In 

Hancock 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In 

Hawkins 

County, 

Tenn. 

1913. 



In 

Jackson 

Covinty, 

N. C, 

1913. 



In 

Wise 

County 

Va., 

1912. 



S4O-$60 

$6O-$S0 

$80-?100 

$100-$120 

$120-8140 

$140-1160 

$160-$180 

$180-$200 

$200-?220 

$220-$240 

$240-$260 

$260-$2S0 

$2S0-$300 

$300-5320 

$320- $340 

$34O-S.360 

$36O-$3S0 

$380-8400 

$400-$420 

$420-$440 

$440-$460 

$460-$4S0 

$4SO-$500 

$500-8600 

$600-5800 

$800 and over. 



> Salaries of 12 teachers in Maryville not included. 

The median of the county average is $237. That is, in 108 counties 
the average salary is more than $237, and in 108 counties the average 
salary is less than $237. This figure is probably very nearly the 
average salary in this region. With an average term of 112 days, 
the average pay for a teacher is therefore very nearly $2 per day. 
The nature of averages, however, is such that there are probably many 
more teachers who receive less than $237 per year than there are who 
receive more than that. If we had six teachers receiving $100 a year 
and one receiving $1,000 a year, the average salary would be $225 
a year. The single high salary makes the average misrepresent the 
actual conditions. Table 10 shows how these averages are made up. 

In most of the counties there is nothing to insure higher salaries or 
precedence to teachers holding higher-grade certificates. In many 
instances a holder of a third-grade certificate may make apphcation 
for the same school for which the holder of a first-grade certificate 
has applied. In some instances holders of third-grade certificates 
actually receive higher salaries than some of the holders of first-grade 
certificates in the same county; or they are employed while holders of 
first-grade certificates can not get schools. This is true, of course, in 
counties in other sections. A few of the counties pay salaries accord- 
ing to the grade of certificate held; e. g., $30 a month for a third-grade 
certificate, $35 for a second-grade, and $40 for a first-grade. 



20 SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 

While salaries are very low, living expenses, too, are low. In 
Blount County, Tenn., board and room for the teacher costs from 
$8 to $12 per month; in Buchanan County, Va., from $6 to $16; in 
Cumberland County, Tenn., $10 to $15; in Hancock County, Tenn., 
$5 to $9; in Hawkins County, Tenn., $10 to $15; in Wise County, 
Va., $10 to $25 in some of the mining towns; and so on. These 
figures probably are representative of the entire region outside of 
the large cities. 

Even with living expenses as low as they are, it is still true that 
many of the teachers do not receive a salary large enough to support 
them for the entire year. This means that they must work at some- 
thing else, and if they have ability enough to succeed at this other 
work, they soon stop teaching. Teaching is no more a profession in 
this section than in the rural portion of most other sections of the 
country. 

In some localities living conditions are such that it is difficult to 
find teachers who will stay. This accounts for the shortness of some 
of the school terms and for the lack of schools in some communities. 
One county superintendent reported that he had solved this problem 
in his county by turning the school funds for these communities over 
to church mission boards, and asking them to provide teachers. 
Three of the six superintendents visited are trying to solve the prob- 
lem by getting children from these communities to go elsewhere to 
school, and then return to their home counties to teach. Two of 
them report that they have found it difficult to get the young people 
back into these communities after they have once got away. 

The average enrollment per teacher for counties varies from 26 to 
70. For the entire region the average is 40. These averages are in 
few cases excessive. Table 11 shows the enrollment per individual 
teacher in six counties. 

Throughout almost the entire region, outside of the cities, text- 
books must be furnished by the parents. Most of the States have 
laws providing for the purchasing of text-books for pupils whose 
parents can not buy them, but these laws are applied only in extreme 
cases. In very many of the schools the work is hampered by short- 
age of text-books. 

Not only are the texts often inadequate, but also they are often 
ill-adapted to use in mountain schools. In one school in a place 
where wagons could not go children were found reading a story of 
the personal reminiscences of a street-car horse in New York City. 
A little girl was found crying on the way home from school because 
she had misspelled "bohea." A geography class was found naming 
the three highest peaks in the world, but the pupils did not know in 
what mountain system they fived nor into what ocean the water in 
the creek in front of the schoolhouse flowed. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 21 

Table 11. — Numbers of pupils enrolled per teacher in six Appalachian counties. 





Teachers. 


Pupils enrolled. 


In 

Blount 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913.1 


In Bu- 
chanan 
County, 
Va.,1913. 


In Cum- 
berland 
County, 
Tenn., 
1913. 


In 

Hancock 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 


In 

Hawkins 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913.' 


In Wise 
County, 
Va., 1912. 


10-15 


2 

1 

3 

10 

11 

12 

8 

15 

10 

9 

6 

10 

1 

3 

1 

1 

1 


5 
3 

7 
6 
9 
10 
3 
5 
5 
1 
1 


1 
7 
5 
7 
8 
7 
8 
7 
5 
1 
3 
2 


1 




5 


15-20 






20-25 


2 
1 
3 
6 
6 
5 
4 
3 
8 
3 


2 
4 
6 
9 
8 
11 
14 
8 
5 
9 
1 
1 


7 


25-30 


6 


30-35 


13 


35-40 


13 


40-45 


9 


45-50 


4 


50-55 


13 


55-60 


8 


60-65 


8 


65-70 


7 


70-75 




1 


75-80 






1 

5 

1 
2 


2 


80-85 


1 


1 
1 


4 


85-90 


1 


2 


90-95 






95-100 








4 

















1 Enrollment not civen for 12 teachers in Marj-ville, Blount County. 

2 Enrollment is not available for 46 of the teachers in Hawkins County. 

Globes, charts, and apparatus of all sorts must, in many instances, 
be furnished by the teacher, if they are to be used at all. In one of 
six counties investigated the teachers even had to buy fuel. The 
superintendent stated that he had required this in order to avoid over- 
charging and waste, and that he had raised salaries to cover the esti- 
mated expense. The average annual salary in that county was $224 
in 1912; out of this fuel was purchased. 

Special work — sewing, cooking, woodwork, agriculture, and 
handwork of various kinds — is being undertaken in a good many of 
the counties. Buchanan Comity, Va., has started work in sewing 
in five schools and has a woodworking shop in connection with one 
of the two-room schools. Cumberland County, Tenn., has a potato 
club of about 40 members; a corn-acreage contest, limited to boys, 
and in charge of a corn demonstrator; a newly organized girls' can- 
ning club; and a farmers' cooperative store. Hawkins County, 
Tenn., has a boys' corn club of about 20 members and five or six 
debating societies. Wise County, Va., has sewing in some of the 
schools, a boys' corn club, debating societies rather well organized, 
taking in a good many one-room schools, and plans were laid for a 
school fair the following year. There are six high schools in the county 
and they have a thriving athletic association and an annual declama- 
tion contest. Jackson County, N. C, has a county commencement, a 
boys' corn club, and county declamation, recitation, and spelling 
contests. These are five of the seven counties investigated in regard 
to special activities of various kinds. The otlier two counties reported 
no special activities in connection with their school work. 



22 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN" MOUNTAINS. 



Besides these special forms of school work, basket suppers are fre- 
quently given in the separate schools to raise funds for school pur- 
poses — special equipment, decorations, or libraries. Hawkins County 
reports $1,486 raised during one year in this way. 

School libraries are finding their way into most of this region. 
Figures are available from all of the States except North and South 
Carolina, There are 185 Appalachian counties in the six States 
from which these figures are available, and in only 23 of these counties 
are no school libraries reported. The number of libraries in a county 
varies from 1 to 164. In all, 4,089 libraries are reported. The 
average number of volumes in libraries is over 60 in three-fourths of 
the counties. 

SCHOOLHOUSES. 

The character of schoolhouses varies from the log-cabin type, 
without glass in the windows and with homemade benches, to the 
most modern of buildings, fitted with furniture and appliances of 
the very latest and best design. The average condition is probably 
below that of other sections of those States. 

The value of buildings is the most available figure to represent 
their general condition, but it must be remembered that building 
material costs less in the moiuitains than in most sections of the 
country and that labor is often donated. The accompanjdng pho- 
tographs should give some idea of what is meant by the various 
values. 

Table 12 shows the average values of building by counties and Table 
13 shows the value by individual buildings in six counties. 

Table 12. — Average values of school buildings in the Appalachian counties. 



Average value of school 
buildings. 



Number of counties. 



In 
Ala- 
bama. 



In 
Georgia. 



In 
Ken- 
tucky. 



In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 



In 
South 
Caro- 
lina. 



In 

Ten- 
nessee.' 



In 

Vir- 
ginia. 



In 
West 
Vir- 
ginia. 



In the 
entire 
region. 



Less than ; 
S100-$200.. 
$200-5300.. 
$300-$400.. 
$400-$500.. 
$500-$600.. 
$600-$700.. 
$700-$800.. 



$900-$! ,000 

81,000-$1,100.... 
$1,100-81,200.... 
$1,200-$1,300.... 
$l,30O-$l,400.... 
$1,400-$1,500.... 

$1,500-81,600 

$1,600-$1,700.... 
$1,700-$1,800.... 

$1,800-«1,900 

$1,900-$2,000 

$2,000-$3,000..-. 
$3,000 and over. 



Total counties included. 



40 



214 



> Information is not available from 2 counties in Tennessee. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 23 

Table 13. — Valnes of school buildings in six Appalachian counties. 



Value of school buildings. 



Buildings. 



In Blount 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In Bu- 
chanan 
County, 
Va., 
1913.1 



In Cum- 
berland 
County, 
Tenn., 
1913. 



In Han- 
cock 
County, 
Tenn., 
1913. 



In Haw- 
kins 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In Wise 

County, 

Va., 

1912. 



Less than $100. 

$100-$200 , 

$200-.?.300 

$300-$400 

$400-S500 

$50O-.$600 

$600-5700 

$700-$800 



$900-$l,000 

$1,000-$1,100.... 
$1,100-$1,200.... 
$1,200-$1,300.... 
$1,300-$1,400.... 
$1,400-81,500.... 
$1,500-$1,600.... 
$l,60O-$l,700.... 
$1,700-$1,800.... 
$1,800-$1,900.... 
$1,900-S2,000.... 
$2,000-$3,000.... 
$3,000 and over. 



1 The values of 5 buildings in Buchanan County are not given. 

Building is going on at a rapid rate. The figures given for Wise 
County, Va., are for the year 1911-12. During the year 1912-13 seven 
new schools were built, and in two instances involving consolidation. 
This consolidation is made possible by improved road conditions. 
In Buchanan County, Va., they have rebuilt nearly half of the school 
buildings in the last four years. Almost 78 per cent of the school 
funds of the county were used for building purposes in 1912. Cum- 
berland, Hawkins, and Blount Counties, Tenn., are rebuilding at a rate 
sufficient to replace all school buildings in about 20 years. Hancock 
County has built nme new buildings in the last two years at an aver- 
age cost of a little over $500 each. 

School consolidation is going on in most of the counties. In all of 
the six counties visited this is true to some extent. In Hawkins 
County, Tenn., 31 school buildings have been abandoned through 
consolidation in the past nine years. Just how far this movement 
can go in a very mountainous county is difficult to say. It seems 
reasonable to hope that eventually, with improved roads and by the 
use of transportation, the average school might be made to serve a 
territory of 12 square miles. If this can be accomplished, the number 
of white schools in these 216 counties wiU be reduced from 16,430 to 
8,115. The actual number of schools serving different areas in three 
counties is shown below. 



24 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 
Extent of areas served by schools. 



Cumber- 
land.! 



Hawkins. 



Wise. 



Schools serving- 
Less than 4 square miles. 

4 to 8 square miles 

8 to 12 square miles 

Over 12 square miles 



1 Cumberland is a large county with sparse population. In some sections of the county there are many 
square miles with few or no inhabitants. 

In these counties, at any rate, there are as many schools that serve 
too small an area as there are that serve too large an area. 

There are schools doing from one to four years of high-school work 
in most of the Appalachian counties. In only 47 of the 216 counties 
are no such schools reported. Many of the high schools in the 
mountains have courses of only one or two years above elementary 
work. In general the character of this high-school work is formal 
and academic. In some instances, however, definite attempts have 
been made to introduce agriculture, domestic science, and hke sub- 
jects into the curriculum and to adjust the high-school work to real 
community needs. 

The counties having no high schools in 1912 were situated mainly 
in Kentucky and Tennessee, where there were, respectively, 17 and 14 
such counties. There were also 5 counties in Georgia, 1 in North 
Carohna, 4 in Virginia, and 6 in West Virginia with no high schools. * 

Table 14 shows the number enrolled in high school from every 1,000 
children between the ages of 6 and 20, inclusive. 

Table 14. — Number of pupils enrolled in high school from every 1,000 children 6 to 20 
years of age in the Appalachian counties of six States."^ 





Counties. 


Enrolled in high school from 
every 1,000 children 6 to 20. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In Geor- 
gia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In North 
Carolina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 

Appala- 
chian 
region ia 
these 

States. 


0-5 




4 
9 

1 
2 


8 
3 


2 
4 
4 
6 
1 
1 
1 
2 


4 
4 
3 
1 
4 
4 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 


1 
1 
3 
2 
7 
2 
5 
5 
3 
3 
4 


17 


5-10 


3 

4 
4 
6 
1 

1 
2 


24 


10-15 


15 


15-20 




15 


20-25 




18 


25-30 




1 


9 


30-35 




9 


35-40 






11 


40-45 






5 


45-50 










5 


50-100 


1 








7 




1 


1 




2 














Total counties included 


22 


22 


30 


22 


44 


■ 40 


180 



I Since 1912 a few additional mountain counties have established high schools. 

2This information is not available from the 30 Appalachian counties in South Carolina and West Vir- 
ginia. In Georgia, 5 counties have no high school; in Kentucky, 17; in North Carolina, 1; in Tennessee, 14; 
m Virginia, 4; in the entire Appalachian region in these States, 41. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



25 



SCHOOL EXPENDITURES. 

The annual expenditure per capita of school population (6 to 20, 
inclusive) in the eight States is $6.60. In the 216 counties of the 
Appalachian region it is $6.41, and in the 98 mountain counties it is 
$4.79. 

In all statements involving dollars and cents, one must bear in 
mind that many of the necessaries and comforts of life are cheaper in 
the mountain region than in many other sections of the country. 
Nevertheless, the disparity in expenditures for the mountain child 
and for the child throughout the remainder of the country is too great 
to be explained in this way, and the opportunities of the children for 
education in this section are less than elsewhere 

Table 15 shows the average expenditure per child in the Appa- 
lachian region by counties. It is worthy of note that there are 100 
counties m which the annual expenditure for each child of school age 
is less than $5 and that in two counties it is less than $2. The con- 
trast in educational conditions in this entire region is brought out by 
the fact that there are 29 coimties expending over $10 for each child, 
and two counties more than $15. 



Table 15. — Amounts expended per child {6-20 years of age) in the Appalachian counties. 





Counties. 


Expenditure per child 6-20 
per school year. 


In 

Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Geor- 
gia. 


In 
Ken- 
tucky. 


In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 
South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

Ten- 
nessee. 


In 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In 
West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

the 
entire 
region. 


$1_$2 












2 
1 

14 
6 

10 
6 
4 






2 


S2-S3 


2 
7 
11 

1 


7 
9 
4 


io' 

17 


3 
7 
4 
5 
2 
1 


3' 

2 


1 

3 
4 
8 
6 
6 
3 
1 
5 
1 


5' 

3 

5 
7 
2 
1 

1 
1 


14 


$3-$4 


43 


$4-S5 


41 


J5-$6 


41 


$6-^7 




14 


$7-48 






1 


12 


SS^9 






8 


J9-?10 




1 


1 


1 






7 


SlO-Sll 


i 




2 


13 


$11-S12 










8 


$12-$13 














2 


$13-414 














1 
1 


2 


$14-415 














2 














1 


2 
















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


129 


123 


5 


46 


40 


25 


211 



1 iLformation is not available from 2 of the counties in Kentucky; and Avery, Caldwell, Mitchell, and 
Watauga Counties in North Carolina have been grouped together and treated as 1 county. 



26 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



The expenditure per child enrolled and the salary cost per child 
enrolled show about the same facts as the expenditure per child. 
The general facts concerning these three items are shovm below. 

School expenditures per child. 



Expendi- 
ture per 

child 6 to 
20 years 
of age. 



Expendi- 
ture per 

chUd 
enrolled. 



Expendi- 
ture for 
salaries 
per child 
enrolled. 



In the entire United States in 1911 

In rural schools in the United States in 1910. 

In the 8 States 

In the 216 Appalachian coimties 

In the 98 mountain counties 



$16.09 



$23.56 



6.60 
6.41 
4.79 



10.37 
19.58 
2 6.54 



$14.06 

10.60 

6.26 

16.41 

S4.66 



' Information from 2 counties is not availal/le. 



2 Information from 1 county is not available. 



The percentage of the total school expenditures paid to teachers 
varies greatly. The amount wiU, of course, vary as the amount of 
expenditures for new buildings and equipment varies. The 22 per 
cent reported paid to teachers in one county is too low even with 
great activity in building. Percentages over 90, reported in 12 
counties, are high and indicate no building activities. The median 
for the 216 counties is 68.5 per cent, and probably represents the 
normal proportion for this region at this time. Table 16 shows the 
variation among the 216 counties in this respect. The 26 counties 
paying their teachers less than 50 per cent of the total school fund 
are probably those that are doing much building. 



Table 16.- 



-Percentages of school expenditures that are paid to teachers in the Appalachian 
counties. 





Counties. 


Paid to teachers from total 
school expenditure. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Geor- 
gia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


Per cents. 
20-25 














1 




1 


25-30 












1 
1 
4 
3 
4 
6 
3 
8 
3 
3 
2 
5 
2 


1 


30-35 








5 
3 
3 
4 
3 


i' 

1 

2 

1 






2 


35-40 








2 

1 

5 
5 
3 
10 

7 
2 
4 


1 

i' 

1 
2 
8 
7 
5 


6 


40-45 




1 


1 
1 


8 


45-50 




8 


50-55 


2 
3 
5 




18 


55-60 




1 


19 


60-65 


27 


65-70 




2 
7 
9 
5 
4 
1 


26 


70-75 






27 


75-80 


3 
3 
3 
1 
2 


2 
4 
6 

8 


21 


80-85 


23 


85-90 


16 


90-95 






10 


95-100 












2 




















Total counties included. . 


22 


21 


31 


26 


5 


145 


40 


' 25 


215 



» Information not available from 1 county in Tennessee. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 27 

PRIVATE SCHOOLS. 

There are two widely prevalent misconceptions concerning private 
elementary schools in the momitain region. One is that private 
schools are the only educative agents in this region; the other is that 
the private schools are so good and so numerous as to be an excuse 
for poor pubhc schools. Both ideas are based on an overestimation 
of the extent of private school work. There are people who claim 
that the private schools in the Appalachian counties do so much of 
the work done by public schools in some sections of the country that 
a study of the public schools alone is of Httle or no real value in 
determining the educational status of these counties. 

Unfortunately, private school statistics are available only from the 
States of Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia. These four 
States, however, may be considered as typical, and they actually 
represent 139 of the 216 Appalachian counties. In 54 of these 139 
counties there are no private schools doing elementary or secondary 
work. In the 75 counties having private schools the percentage of 
the total elementary and secondary enrollment that is in private 
schools varies from three-tenths of 1 per cent to 16.6 per cent. Infor- 
mation for the States individually follows: 

In Alabama 2.8 per cent of children in primary and secondary 
schools are enrolled in private institutions. Of the 22 counties in 
the Appalachian section of the State, only 9 report any private 
schools at aU. In these 9 counties the variation in percentage of 
pupils enrolled in private schools is from 1.1 to 8.4. 

In Kentucky 3.1 per cent of the total school enrollment is in 
private schools. There are private institutions doing elementary or 
secondary work in 19 of the 31 Appalachian counties, and the per- 
centage enrolled in private schools in these 19 counties varies from 
0.3 to 13.7. 

In Tennessee 2.6 per cent of the total elementary and secondary 
enrollment is in private schools. There are private schools in 22 of 
the 46 Appalachian counties, and the percentage enrolled in private 
schools in these 22 counties varies from 2 to 16.6. 

In Virginia 3.8 per cent of the total enrollment in schools below 
college rank is in private institutions. There are private schools in 
25 of the 40 Appalachian counties, and the percentage enrolled in 
private schools in these counties varies from 0.3 to 14.1. 

Where there are successful private schools, they draw students 
from more than one county. This accounts for the occasional high 
percentage of pupils in the private schools of a county. 

These figures indicate that private elementary and secondary 
schools are not doing as much of the educational work in these 
States as is often supposed. They certainly are not taking, and 



28 SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 

never can take, tiie place of the public schools. Their function 
would seem to be either to work in communities where public schools 
can not be maintained, as indicated previously, or to do work better 
than the public schools are doing, or to do work of a kind that public 
schools are not doing, or to supplement the public schools in such a 
way as to induce the people themselves to demand better public 
schools. In the last three cases the aim should be to do the work 
in such a way that it can be imitated by the public schools and that 
the work may be taken over by the public schools as soon as pos- 
sible without loss of efficiency. It is unfortunate when the pres- 
ence of a private school prevents the establishment or improvement 
of a public school that would do the same work. 

This discussion, of course, concerns only elementary and second- 
ary schools. Colleges, normal, professional, and industrial schools, 
both private and pubhc, deserve special consideration that it is im- 
possible to give in this brief study. 

SUMMARY. 

The following general conclusions in regard to educational condi- 
tions in the Appalachian region seem warranted by this study. 

Conditions vary from the very worst to very nearly the best, and 
are constantly improving. New buildings are replacing the old; 
modern equipment is being introduced; the school term is being 
lengthened; special activities of many kinds are coming to supple- 
ment the traditional work; and pubhc sentiment is aroused. The 
school enrollment, attendance, and term in the entire region are a 
little worse than throughout the other portions of the States in which 
the mountains lie; some counties are weU above the average, and 
there are some coimties that are very much below any reasonable 
standard. 

Teachers' salaries are low, even when the low cost of living is 
taken into account. Most of the teachers have httle or no pro- 
fessional training. Facilities for such training are increasing, and 
such training will necessitate higher salaries. Supervision is inade- 
quate. Even good teachers need good supervision; young and un- 
trained teachers, as most of the mountain teachers are, have espe- 
cial need of assistance and suggestion. 

The curriculum is often haphazard, and the texts are a painful 
misfit. State courses of study, in the States in which they exist, 
can not meet all the varying need of communities as diverse as the 
communities in this region. It is very rare for any other course of 
study to exist, much less be in force, in any locality. Most of the 
texts used are those written for city schools. 

Special activities in the form of parents' clubs, school improve- 
ment associations, corn, potato, tomato, and canning clubs, manual 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 29 

training, domestic science and domestic art, debating clubs, ath- 
letic meets, and school fairs are being introduced into some com- 
munities. 

The expenditure for education is very much less than it should be. 
Nowhere is it as much as the people can afford. Even where rates of 
taxation are high, the valuation of property is often so low as to make 
the tax on actual values very low. In Tennessee, where the law 
requires assessment at full value, it is commonly stated that assess- 
ment is usually at about one-third of the value. In one coimty in 
that State the county clerk declares that the usual assessment is not 
more than one-sixth of the full value. But this condition of affairs 
is not peculiar to those coimties or to the States in which they are. 

Private schools are supplementing the work of the public schools 
in many places. Some of the private schools are doing only common- 
school work, and are doing it no better than the public schools can 
do it. On the other hand, many of them are doing more and better 
work than the pubhc schools, and are working in places that the pub- 
lic school has failed to reach. 

In many cases efforts at improvement lack definite aim and organi- 
zation. This is true of the work both of pubUc and of private schools. 
Some county superintendents follow the definite policy of building 
new schools in places where the people want them and are willing to 
help in their building, even though there may be other communities 
absolutely without school facihties. Private schools are sometimes 
located without reference to public schools, or even to compete with 
other private schools that are reaUy meeting the needs of a commu- 
nity. Church schools have been transgressors in this regard. In 
some instances rather poor private schools are preventing the estab- 
hshment of public high schools which might be made to serve the 
people much better. 

Public sentiment in favor of good schools is developing; in the 
several State legislatures representatives from these counties usually 
favor increased levies or appropriations for schools, and other pro- 
gressive education measures. This is a fundamental movement, and 
is the most hopeful aspect of the educational situation. When pub- 
hc opinion — representing appreciation of education, desire for better 
opportunities for the children, and belief in the ability of the people 
to help themselves— is fuUy awake, the conditions here wiU improve 
rapidly, as they have done elsewhere. 

The way to help these people, the only effective way, is to help them 
to help themselves. 

o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915, NO. II WHOLE NUMBER 636 



A STATISTICAL STUDY OF THE 

PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE SOUTHERN 

APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS 



By NORMAN FROST 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCUEED FROM 

THE StTPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

"WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

20 CENTS PER COPY 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Letter of transmittal 5 

Introduction 7 

General characteristics 7 

Illiteracy 10 

School enrollment attendance 11 

Length of school term 13 

Average number of days each child attends 15 

Teachers 16 

Schoolhouses 22 

School expenditures 25 

Private schools 27 

Summary 28 

Statistics 30 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page. 
Plate 1. A farm in one of the " ' hollers ' " Frontispiece. 

2. Types of farm buildings in the mountains 8 

3. Mountain miUs 8 

4. Types of residences in the Appalachian region 8 

5. Types of school buildings 16 

6-7. Log schoolhouses 16 

8. A mountain consolidated school and a private school 16 

9-16. Diagrams 24 

3 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Department of the Interior, 

Bureau of Education, 
Washington, March 19, 1915. 

Sm : The southern Appalachian Mountain region is rich in resources. 
Its population contains a larger per cent of native-born white persons 
than that of any other section of the United States. The great 
majority of these are of the sturdiest stocks — Enghsh, Irish, Scotch, 
German, and French Huguenot. The energy, native ability, and 
patriotism of these people are known to the world. Yet, because of 
historical and geographical reasons, the section as a whole is backward 
in development, and a large per cent of the people are illiterate. 
Here, as elsewhere, and probably to a greater degree than in any other 
section of this country, the development of natural resources and the 
turning of potential wealth into actual wealth must depend on the 
education and training of the people. To this end the people are 
eager to help themselves, and people of other sections are willing to 
help them. But neither self-help nor the efforts of others can have 
the best results without a better understanding of present conditions, 
needs, and tendencies and of the difficulties inherent in the situation. 
To set these forth to some extent, clearly and accurately, is the 
purpose of the accompanying manuscript, prepared as the result of a 
study undertaken for the Bureau of Education by Norman Frost, 
whose experience in connection with Berea College, Berea, Ky,, 
equips him unusually well for this work. Mr. Frost did not attempt 
to make this study exhaustive. To do this would have required 
more time than was at his command and more funds than the bureau 
had available for this purpose. It is, however, the most extensive 
study of education in this section yet undertaken, and is as accurate 
as the material at hand would permit. Delay in publication makes 
some of the figures out of date by one or two years, but it is not now 
possible to bring them up to date. I recommend that the manu- 
script be pubhshed as a bulletin of the Bureau of Education. 

Respectfully submitted. 

P. P. Claxton, 

Commissioner. 

The Secretary of the Interior. 

' 6 



A STATISTICAL STUDY OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE 
SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS.^ 



mTRODUCTION. 



Information concerning educational conditions in the southern 
Appalachian region is scattered, fragmentary, and often partisan to 
the assumption either that conditions are ideal or that they are in- 
conceivably bad. The purpose of this study is to draw together the 
available facts in the case. Necessarily, this study is largely 
statistical. 

The territory covered has been selected with the advice of school 
men famihar with conditions in the respective States. Practically 
all of this mountain region is included in 216 counties, lying in the 
8 States of Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South 
Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. These are referred 
to in the following pages as the "Appalachian Counties." Many of 
them are only partially mountainous, but are included because they 
he wholly within the Appalachian region. Of these 216 counties, 98 
are referred to as the "mountain counties." These include the more 
rugged counties, where the topography and economic conditions are 
most unfavorable to progress in education. 

The data, used in the tables are taken from the Federal Census of 
1910 and from the school reports of the respective States. In every 
instance the latest information available has been used. In the course 
of the study six counties were visited. These were selected counties 
which might be considered as representative of the different types. 

The counties visited were Buchanan and Wise in Virginia; and 
Bloimt, Cumberland, Hancock, and Hawkins in Tennessee. 

Special thanks are due the county superintendents of these counties 
and the school officials of the respecive States, for the valuable assist- 
ance they have given in obtaining desired information. 

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS. 

The southern Appalachian region contains about 100,000 square 
miles. It is almost as large as the New England States and New 
York State combined; it is larger than the State of Oregon. This 
region extends in a northeasterly direction from a point south of 
Birmingham, Ala., to Maryland and Pennsylvania; and from the 

' A preliminary edition of this bulletin, without tables and plates, was issued in April, 191.5. 

7 



8 SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 

Blue Ridge in the east to a rather indefinite line on the west, running 
near the middle of Tennessee and Kentucky, and the western side of 
West Virginia. 

The character of this region varies greatly. There are broad, 
fertile valleys and narrow gorges; rough, precipitous mountains, and 
high, rolling plateaus; rich blue-grass land, and barren hillsides. 
The Shenandoah Valley, or, as it is often called, the Valley of Virginia, 
is one of the most fertile valleys in the country. Its inhabitants will 
tell you that it is the "dimple of the universe; a modern Garden of 
Eden." Many of the counties lying largely in the valley include also 
parts of the Blue Ridge and of the Shenandoah Mountains. 

Wise County, Va., made famous by the stories of John Fox, jr., 
is in the main a rough, mountainous, mining county; yet a 40-acre 
farm about half a mile south of Coeburn sold for SI 0,700 in the 
spring of 1913. Coeburn is a village of less than 700 inhabitants. 
There are, too, some 30 or 40 square miles of blue-grass land in the 
southern part of the county. 

Hancock County, Tenn., is considered a rough, mountainous coimty. 
It has no railroad, nor even a "pike." Yet some of the valley land 
in Hancock is held at $175 or $200 an acre. 

In the same way each of the counties might be considered. In 
each county there is diversity of conditions, and between different 
counties there is a still greater diversity. Any description of moun- 
tain conditions that takes into account only one kind of country 
must be partial and inadequate. 

Mineral, timber, and water rights in the Appalachians are of great 
value. In most instances these rights are owned by outside interests. 
Large parts of the coal fields of West Virginia, Virginia, and Ken- 
tucky were bought for 50 cents an acre; $5 was a very high price to 
pay. Timber was sold for prices almost as low, and water rights 
were practically given away. The natural resources of the moun- 
tains, where they are developed, have brought employment to the 
mountain people, but their real value has gone, or is going, to the 
capitahst outside of this region. 

The people of the mountains vary as much as the country itseK. 
There are in the entire region more than 4,300,000 persons, about 
600,000 of whom live in cities of 2,500 inhabitants or more. Among 
other cities are Asheville, N. C, Birmingham, Ala., Chattanooga and 
Knoxville, Tenn., and Roanoke, Va. It is true there are feudists and 
moonshiners in some localities, but the region is also the home of 
some of the best-known statesmen, lawyers, ministers, physicians, 
teachers, and merchants in the United States as well as of hosts of 
law-abiding citizens in different walks of fife. It is as difficult to 
find a typical mountaineer as it is to find a typical New Yorker or 
New Englander. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



iULLETlN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 2 




TYPE OF FARM DWELLING IN THE MOUNTAINS. 




FARM AND BUILDINGS IN THE APPALACHIAN REGION. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 3 




MOUNTAIN MILL STILL IN USE. 

There are many other mills in this region with thoroughly up-to-date machinery, 

however. 




ANOTHER TYPE OF MILL IN THE MOUNTAINS. 



GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS. 9 

Tablb 1. — Percentages of native whites of native parentage in the Appalachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Per cent of total population. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 

Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 

entire 
region. 


50-52 


2 
















2 


52-54 














1 


1 


54-56 


















56-58 




















58-60 


1 
1 












1 




2 


60-62 












1 


62-64 


















64-66 












1 






1 


66-68 










2 
1 


1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
1 
3 
3 
1 
3 
1 
2 
3 
5 
4 
3 
3 


i" 

i" 

4" 

1 

4 
1 
2 
2 
2 

6 


3 


68-70 










2 


70-72 


2 

1 


1 






4 


72-74 










4 


74-76 


1 






1 




4 


76-78 








1 


78-80 


1 
2 








1 




6 


80-82 


1 




1 


7 


82-84 




1 
1 
3 
5 
4 

10 
7 
9 
5 


2 


84-86 








3 
3 
1 
6 




11 


86-88 


2 
4 


2 
1 
4 
3 

2 
2 
4 


1 
1 

i" 

6 
3 
19 


13 


88-90 


18 


90-92 


18 




2 
1 
2 
1 


23 


94-96 


3 
7 
1 




25 


96-98 


28 


98-100 


39 






Total counties included. 


22 


21 


31 


'25 


5 


46 


40 


25 


2 215 



I Avery County has been formed since 1910 from parts of CaldweU, Mitchell, and Watauga Counties. 

» Of the 215 counties, 204 have higher percentages of native whites of native parentage than their respective 
States. The percentages for the States are: Alabama, 55.1; Georgia, 53.3; Kentucky, 81.4; North Caro- 
lina, 67.3; South Carolina, 43.7; Tennessee, 75.7; Virginia, 64.3; West Virginia, 85.3. 

In origin these people do not differ materially from the rest of the 
people in the States in which these mountains He. The stock is, in 
the main, Scotch-Irish, with a few communities of Dutch and of 
Huguenots. 

Most of the farmers gwn their land. In no county does the per- 
centage of farms operated by owners drop below 28 per cent, and it 
runs as high as 92.8 per cent in one county in Virginia. In the differ- 
ent States the percentages in the mountain counties vary as follows:* 

Percentage of farmers in mountain counties who own their farms. 

Per cent. 

Alabama 30. 8 to 76. 3 

Georgia 28. 6 to 68. 9 

Kentucky 41. 9 to 75. 9 

North Carolina 52. 1 to 84. 4 

South Carolina 28.0 to 40.0 

Tennessee 47. 6 to 86. 6 

Virginia 58.9 to 92.8 

West Virginia 42.4 to 90.0 

Land values vary from practically nothing to about $200 per acre. 
In 63 of the 216 counties the average value is less than $10. In no 
case is the average more than $50. 

11910 census. 



10 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



A large majority of the people are native whites, and of native 
parentage. In the 98 "mountain" comities 94.1 per cent are of this 
class. In the entire region this percentage is 83.6, while in the 8 
States taken together it is only 65.3. Table 1 shows the variation 
among the 216 comities. It is interesting to note that there are 39 
counties in which 98 per cent or more of the people are native whites 
of native parentage. A high percentage of native whites is usually a 
result of isolation. 

ILLITERACY. 

Of the native white people 10 years of age or over in 1910, 15.9 per 
cent in the 98 "mountain counties" were iUiterate; 12.6 per cent in 
the 216 "Appalachian counties" were iUiterate; and 9.3 per cent in 
the eight States were illiterate. 

In interpreting these figures it must be remembered that those for 
the entire States include the "Appalachian" counties, and those for 
the "Appalachian" counties include the "mountain" counties. The 
rate of white illiteracy for the eight States, excluding the Appalachian 
counties, is therefore much lower than 9.3 per cent. Data to deter- 
mine how much lower were not available at the time this study was 
made. 

Table 2 shows the distribution of the 216 Appalachian counties 
among the native white population 10 years of age or over in regard 
to their percentages of illiteracy. 

Table 2. — Percentages of illiteracy arrumg native whites over 10 years of age in the Appa- 
lachian counties. 



Per cent of native white 
illiterates 10 years of age 
and over. 


Number of counties. 


In .Ala- 
bama. 


In 

Georgia. 


In 

Ken- 
tuck J'. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


0-2 














1 
2 
4 
6 
6 

6 

5 
2 
4 


2 
1 
2 
2 


1 


2-4 


1 












4 


4-6 










1 

1 
5 
7 
9 
11 
7 
3 
1 
1 


14 


6-8 




1 
3 
3 
3 
7 
2 








12 


8-10 


2 

7 
8 


1 
1 
1 
3 
3 
7 
5 
4 
2 
2 
1 


2 
4 
2 
6 
3 
S 
2 
1 


i' 

3' 

1 


23 


10-12 


27 


12-14 


30 


14-16 


37 


16-18 


4 


24 


•18-20 


19 


20-22 




2 


10 


22-24 








6 


24-26 










2 


26-28 
















2 


28-30 












1 




2 


30-32 














32-34 




















34-36 






1 








1 




2 
















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


31 


25 


5 


46 


40 


25 


1215 



> Of the 215 counties, 167 exceed the pcrcentag?^ of their respective States. The State percentages are: 
Ala! ama, 9.9; Georgia, 7.8; Kentucky, 10; North Carolina, 12.3; South Carolina, 10.3; Tennessee, 9.7; 
Virginia, 8; West Virginia, 6.4. 

The illiteracy among native whites is used for comparison, because 
the figures for total illiteracy are so greatly complicated by the pres- 
ence of large numbers of negroes throughout some parts of the eight 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



States and the relatively smaU number in the mountains, 
of the Appalachians are almost wholly native whites. 



11 

The people 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND ATTENDANCE. 



There are more than 1,500,000 children between the ages of 6 and 
20, inclusive, in the Appalachian region. Of these, 65.9 per cent are 
reported as enrolled in school. In the 98 mountain counties, 72.3 per 
cent are so reported; in the eight States all together only 63.6 per cent. 

These figures indicate that a larger proportion of the children are en- 
rolled in school in the Appalachian region than in the entire eight States 
in general, and that in the mountain counties the enrollment is greatest 
of all. While there are many chances for inaccuracies in the figures 
themselves, those who know the section best are agreed that there is a 
high enroUment; the average attendance, however, is low. There is 
undoubtedly some duplication in enrollment; that is, the same child 
may be enrolled in two or more schools during the year. School dis- 
trict lines are not very definite, and a boy or girl who does not like 
one teacher may try another school. One boy told with glee of 
having been "fired" from three schools in two weeks' time. There is 
seldom any checking up of the school enroUment to prevent such a 
boy from attending and being enrolled in more than one school. It 
happens also more or less frequently that teachers fail to report the 
enrollment in their schools. The county superintendent usually 
makes an estimate. Influenced as he is by a very laudable desire 
to make his county compare favorably with other counties, one may 
readily see that his estimate will not be too low. But this practice 
is probably little more common in these counties than elsewhere in 
these States, and in many other States. 

Table 3 shows the number of counties reporting the various per- 
centages of enrollment. 

Table 3. — Number of children (6 to 20 years of age) enrolled from every 100 in the Appa- 
lachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Enrolled from every 100 per- 
sons 6 to 20 years ol age. 


In Ala- 
bama.' 


In 
Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia.' 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 

entire 
region. 


40-45 


1 
1 
2 
3 
6 
3 
3 
2 
















1 


45-50 












3 

1 
3 
13 
12 
5 
1 
1 
1 


i' 

2 
5 
6 
9 
2 




50-55 


1 








1 


5 


55-60 


2 
3 
2 
2 
10 
7 
1 
1 


2 
3 
4 
5 
3 
1 
3 
1 
1 




11 


60-65 


2 
3 

4 
2 
1 

1 


2 
3 


2 
5 
12 
10 
9 
4 
3 


33 


65-70 


37 


70-75 


40 


75-80 


39 


80-85 


22 


85-90 




10 


90-95 




6 


95-100 


» 






2 


















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


«28 


»23 


5 


46 


40 


25 


210 



' In Alabama and Virginia the school age begins at 7 years. In this table it has been reckoned from 6 
years. 

• In Kentucky 3 counties are not reported; and in North Carolina 4 counties, Avery, Caldwell, Mitchell, 
and Wautauga, have been grouped and treated as 1 county. 



12 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



The statement is frequently made that large numbers of children 
m the mountains are entirely out of reach of any school. Unfortu- 
nately, no figures are available in regard to this point. An estimate 
seems the best that can be done here. In the six counties personally 
investigated the county superintendents estimated that a total of 115 
children were not, and had not been, within reach of any school; that 
is, according to their estimate, 115 children in six counties had no 
opportunity to attend any school. This represents the number of 
such children known to school authorities and is probably a very 
conservative estimate. If these six counties may be considered as 
representative, there would be in the 216 counties 4,167 children out of 
reach of school. This is only a little over twenty-seven one-hun- 
dred ths of 1 per cent of the 1,510,286 children in the entire region. 
The estimate might be doubled, or even trebled, and stiU be less than 
1 per cent. 

That this is a serious condition no one would deny. It is not so 
bad, however, as is sometimes supposed. In most instances in the 
six counties visited plans were well in hand to meet the situation. In 
only one county was this not so. In that county the superintendent 
was definitely committed to the policy of first building schools in 
communities where the people wanted new buildings and where they 
were willing to help construct them. The children who have no 
schools are usually in communities where the people do not care. 

In average attendance the mountain region does not report quite 
as well as the 8 States in general, and the 98 mountain counties 
report shghtly less than the entire region. In the 8 States, 63.6 
pupils, on the average, from every 100 enrolled, attend daily; in the 
216 ^ coimties of the Appalachian region, 63.1 pupils; and in the 98 ^ 
mountain counties, only 61.2 pupils. 

Table 4. — Numbers of children attending daily from every 100 enrolled in the Appalachian 

counties. 





Number of counties. 


Attending daily from every 
100 enrolled. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 

J^orth 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 
West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 










1 
1 










1 


















I 




1 

2 
3 
5 
8 
2 
1 




2 
5 
7 
4 
3 
3 




1 


1 




5 




1 
3 
10 
6 

1 






8 


50-55 


2 
6 
3 

7 
1 
3 
2 


1 
2 
1 

i' 


2 

io' 

15 
10 
3 


1 

8 
15 
10 

4 

i' 


i' 

7 
13 
2 
1 
1 


19 


55-60 


36 


60-65 • 


63 


65-70 


51 


70-75 


19 








7 










4 












1 
3 
1 


1 


















3 


















1 




















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


324 


26 


5 


46 


40 


25 


209 



1 Information from 6 of these counties in Kentucky is not available. 
> Information from 5 of the 98 counties is not available. 
• In Kentucky information is not available from 7 counties^ 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



13 



Fortunately, in this case, we have also the figures for white attend- 
ance only. In the 8 States, the average daily attendance is 64 per 
cent of the total enrollment; in the 216 counties, 63.8 per cent; in 
the 98 counties, 61.3 per cent. These figures show the same tendency 
as those for the total attendance of white and colored. 

The percentages of attendance of the Appalachian counties are 
shown in Table 4. 

The low percentage of attendance is explained, in part at least, by 
Table 5, showing the irregularity of attendance in certain schools. 
The usual decrease in average attendance during the latter months 
should be noted. 

Table 5. — Monthly average attendance in certain 1-room schools in the southern 

Appalachians.^ 





Months. 


states and counties. 


First. 


Sec- 
ond. 


Third. 


Fourth. 


Fifth. 


Sixth. 


Sev- 
enth. 


Eighth. 


Ninth. 


Alabama: 

Talladega 


15 

28 

42 
37 
14 
25 
19 
21 
16 
31 

20 
23 

14 
6 
26 
17 
21 
24 
11 
15 
35 
27 

32 
46 
8 
16 
19 
31 


24 
32 

36 
34 
26 
27 
21 
20 
11 
31 

18 
24 

16 
6 
24 
15 
19 
22 
19 
19 
36 
26 

36 
47 
8 
17 
18 
31 


40 
35 

24 
28 
25 
30 
22 
21 
12 
24 

17 
23 

17 
12 
19 
15 
19 
19 
30 
26 
32 
18 

36 
50 
6 
14 
15 
28 


28 
27 

19 
28 
20 
23 


29 
19 


20 
15 


30 
14 












North Carolina: 

Jackson 


















Rutlierford 














21 










Wilkes 
























Graham 


12 
21 

15 
20 

15 
12 
14 
18 
17 
21 
23 
25 
26 
20 

33 
60 
8 
14 
14 
18 
























Tennessee: 

Unicoi 


12 
19 

15 
15 
15 
18 
20 
23 
18 
23 
25 
23 

32 
49 
8 
14 
11 
21 


13 
18 
















Virginia: 

Rockbridge 


















Surry 


14 
15 
21 
20 
11 
19 
26 


15 
15 
19 
24 


15 
15 


15 


Warren. 


14 








Botetourt 








17 






Buchanan 














West Virginia: 

McDowell 


30 
46 
6 
11 
13 
22 


28 
46 


27 
30 




Mercer 












Mirifiral • 

























1 Taken from special reports of county superintendents relative to the monthly attendance in 1-teacher 
schools for the year 1912-13. Data from individual schools were submitted. The figures used here are 
those given for the first two 1-room schools that were listed by the county superintendents. Each county 
is reported from which information was available. 

LENGTH OF SCHOOL TERM. 

The average length of school terms in these 216 counties varies 
from 65 to 180 days. Table 7 shows this variation. For the rural 
schools of the United States the average term was 137 * days in 1910. 
For the 8 States in which the Appalachians He the average length of 
school term is 123* days; for the Appalachian counties it is 112 ^ 

1 Bulletin, 1913, No. 8, U. S. Bureau of Education. 

• These figures are averages of county and State averages, respectively. 



14 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



days, and for the 98 mountain counties 104 ^ days. The mountain 
schools are seriously deficient in this respect. 

Table Q.-^Different lengths of school term in four mountain counties} 



Length of school term, in days. 



Number of schools. 



In 

Hancock 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In 

Hawkins 

Coimty, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In 

Wise 

Coimty, 

Va., 

1912. 



In 

Jackson 

County, 

N. C, 

1913. 



Less than 80. 

80-85 

85-«0 

90-95 

95-100 , 

100-105 

105-110 , 

110-115 

11&-120 

120-125 

125-130 

130-135 

135-140 

140-145 

145-150 

150-155 

155-160 

160-165 

165-170 

170-175 

175-180 

180 or more.., 



1 Blount and Cumberland Counties, Tenn., report a term of 110 days for all schools. 
Table 7. — Average lengths of school term in the Appalachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Average length of school 
term, in days. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Georgia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 1 


In 

North 
Caro- 
Ima. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 
West 
Vir- 
gioia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


65 70 












1 






1 


70-75 ' ' 








1 
1 
9 
2 
2 








1 


75-80 
















1 


80-85 


1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
5 
4 


1 

1 
1 
3 
6 
5 
1 
1 




4' 

i" 


5 
3 
5 
6 
8 
2 
3 
2 
1 
2 
3 
1 
1 






16 


g5.g0 






11 


90-95 






9 


95-100 


2 
4 
3 
5 
3 
3 
6 
6 
2 
3 
2 
1 


i' 

3 

1 
7 
3 
4 
2 
1 


14 


100-105 


1 
1 
6 
7 
5 
3 
3 
1 
2 


4 
2 
1 
1 
2 


25 


105-110 


19 


110-115 


23 


115-120 


15 


120-125 . 


2 
2 


20 


125-130 




16 


130-135 


1 






17 


135-140 


1 






7 


140-145 


1 


1 




9 


145-150 


1 


3 


150-155 












1 


155-160 












2 


2 


160-165 














1 


1 


165-170 












1 




1 


170-175 














1 


1 


175-180 


















180 
















1 


1 




















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


29 


26 


5 


46 


40 


25 


214 



I Information not available from 2 counties in Kentucky. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



15 



Not only does the length of the school term vary in different 
counties, but frequently it varies widely in the same county. Table 
6 shows this variation for four counties. As this table indicates, 
a mere statement of average length of session has very Uttle real 
significance, since it fails to show either the best or the worst 
conditions. 

The length of school term is increasing all through the Appalachian 
region. State laws and increased taxation are both factors in bring- 
ing about this increase. In Hancock County the average term has 
been increased from three to five months in the last eight years. In 
every county iuvestigated such an increase is taking place. This 
increase must be very great to make the school term of this region 
equal even to the average of rural schools throughout the United 
States. 

AVERAGE NUMBER OP DAYS EACH CHILD ATTENDS. 

Table 8 shows the variation in the number of days' schooling the 
average child receives in different counties. 

Table 8. — Numbers of days the average child 6-20 attends in the Appalachian counties. 





Number of counties. 


Days the average child 
attends school. ■ 


In 
Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Georgia. 


In 
Ken- 
tucky. 


In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 
South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


20-25 


1 
1 
3 
5 
6 
1 
4 






2 
1 
3 
3 
4 
4 


3' 

1 

1 


1 

1 



4 
4 
5 
10 
4 
3 
6 
5 
1 






4 


25-30 










3 


30-35 


4 

' I 

7 
3 


1 
2 
4 
5 
6 
2 
2 
1 


4 
4 
3 
7 

10 
7 
2 
1 
2 


i" 

6 
5 
3 

6 
2 
2 


18 


35-40 


22 


40-45 


25 


45-50 


30 


50-55 


39 


55-00 


4 




22 


60-65 


1 


1 


12 


65-70 






14 


70-75 






1 




10 


75-80 








3 


80-S5 








1 




1 


85-90 










2 






2 




















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


123 


123 


5 


46 


40 


25 


205 



1 Information is not available from 8 counties in Kentucky; and Avery, Caldwell, Mitchell, and Watauga 
Counties, in North Carolina, have been grouped together and treated as 1 county. 

The three items of enrollment, attendance, and length of term are 
aU brought together in showing the average number of days that 
each child attends school during a single year. In the entire eight 
States this average is 49.9 days; m. the 216 counties of the Appa- 
lachian region it is 48.3; and in the 98 mountain counties it is 46. 
The figures show a slight lack of schooling for the children of the 
Appalachian region as compared with children thi'oughOut the States 
in which this region lies. When the comparison is made for white 



16 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



children only, the lack of schooling in the mountains becomes larger 
in proportion to the number for white children outside. 

Stated differently, the average 20-year-old person in the mountain 
region has attended school only long enough to complete the fourth 
grade of a city school. Making allowance for poor teachers, poor 
equipment, and the irregularity of attendance, the average moun- 
taineer actually has not had schooling equivalent to that of a child 
who has completed the fourth grade in a city school. This is true 
of the present generation of young people in this region; the older 
people have received even less. 

TEACHERS. 

There are almost 25,000 teachers in the southern Appalachian re- 
gion. It is impossible to make any definite statement concerning 
their training that will apply to all of the States. Methods of exami- 
nation and certification vary so much that the percentage of first-grade 
certificates does not represent the same thing. In none of these 
eight States does a second-grade county certificate require more 
than the completion of the elementary school course. 

In Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, and West 
Virginia, certificates are issued on State-wide examinations, in which 
the same questions are used for first, second, and third grade ^ certifi- 
cates, while higher marks are required for the higher certificates. In 
Alabama certificates are issued on State-wide examination, with dif- 
ferent questions for the applicants for different grades of certificates. 
Of the 3,416 teachers in the Appalachian section of the State, 1,066, 
or 31 per cent, hold third-grade certificates. The percentage in indi- 
vidual counties varies from to 54. 

Figures for the Appalachian counties in several States are indi- 
cated below. The percentages for those holding third-grade certifi- 
cates only are given. In most instances this represents no further 
education than that which may be received in the schools in which 
the individuals concerned are teaching. 

Teachers holding third-grade certificates. 





Alabama. 


Georgia. 


Ken- 
tucky. 


South 
Carolina. 


West 

Virginia. 


Per cent of teachers holding third-grade certificate. . . 


31 

0-54 


28 
0-61 


10 
0^2 


6 
1-11 


16 
6-27 







While these percentages represent, in general, undesirable teach- 
ers, it must be borne in mind that the figures are not comparable 
between States. It is not at aU certain that more of the teachers are 
undesirable in West Virginia than in South CaroHna. 

'The third-grade is the lowest grade of certificate given. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 5 




JK 


13 



A new two-room school valued at about $1 ,000. Front and rear views. 




ifiLl 






MM 





School building on the left is valued at about $100; building on the right at about $500. 







Exterior and interior of one-room schoolhouse valued at about $450. 
TYPES OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 6 




A LOG SCHOOLHOUSE VALULD AT $75. 




ANOTHER LOG SCHOOLHOUSE; ESTIMATED VALUE, $120. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 7 




LOG SCHOOLHOUSE OF A TYPE FAST DISAPPEARING. 




INTERIOR OF THE LOG SCHOOLHOUSE SHOWN ABOVE. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



5ULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 




A MOUNTAIN CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL OF TWO ROOMS IN CLAY COUNTY, KY, 




A PRIVATE SCHOOL (THE LARGE BUILDINGS ON THE RIGHT) IN A MOUN- 
TAIN VILLAGE. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



17 



In Virginia certificates are issued on State-wide examinations, 
the same for the first, second, and third grades, save that there are 
additional subjects for higher certificates, A Httle over 17 per cent 
of the teachers in the Appalachian counties hold third-grade certi- 
ficates, and the percentage in individual counties varies from to 39., 

In Tennessee certificates in the past have been issued by the 
county superintendents on examinations prepared and graded by 
themselves. The law has now been changed, and State-wide exam- 
inations will be given there in the future. 

The reports from Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, 
and West Virginia show the number and percentage of teachers with 
some normal school training in those States. The facts in this 
respect are indicated below. This includes graduates and those 
who have had but a single summer school course as well. Very few 
arc normal graduates. 





Georgia. 


North 
Carolina. 


Tennes- 
see. 


Virginia.! 


We.st 
Virginia. 


Per cent of teachers in Appalachian counties with 


15 
0-49 


39 
7-93 


5 
0-26 


15 
0-39 


7 




0-42 







1 In Virginia these figures are for teachers holding first-grade or higher certificates. 

Supervision of teachers in service, in the strict sense of the word, 
is very rare. In West Virginia a system of supervision by magiste- 
rial districts is being developed, and in Kentucky assistants to the 
county superintendents are appointed in some of the counties. 
Experiments in these particulars are being made in some of the other 
States, but in the main the entire supervision is given by the county 
superintendents. 

In aU of the States except North Carolina the county superintendent 
must be a legal resident of the county in which he serves. The county 
board of North Carolina may secure a superintendent from outside of 
the county or State. In any of the States it is practically impossible 
for the county superintendent to do more than visit each school once, 
or possibly twice, during the school year. The average number of 
white schools in an Appalachian county is 76. The average length 
of the school term is 112 days. By the time a superintendent has 
attended to necessary office work he is fortunate if he can spend more 
than two or three hours in each school during the entire year. Such 
visits as he is able to make, even in the case of competent men, can 
amount to little more than the most cursory inspection In practice, 
at any rate, it seldom amounts to more. 

Teachers' institutes of about a week's duration are very generally 
held in each county of the Appalachian regions, as in other counties in 
the States. These institutes are usually held during the summer, 
93148°— 15 2 



18 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



with one or more instructors employed from outside of the county, 
The value of such institutes depends largely on the men employed. 

Teachers' training courses in connection with the county high 
schools have been held in a few instances. Cumberland County, 
Term., may be given as an example. The teacher-training course 
in 1913 lasted four months. The work began in February, after the 
country schools closed, and was in charge of the county superin- 
tendent. The course was open to any teachers, or any who expected 
to become teachers. The work consisted largely of reviews of the 
elementary subjects, with emphasis on methods of instruction. 
Teachers were allowed to take a part of the normal work, and to 
spend the rest of their time in the regular high-school courses if they 
desired to do so. Over 30 of the teachers of the county enrolled. 

In several counties throughout the Appalachian section private 
schools are giving special courses for training teachers. For example, 
in Blount County, Tenn., there were two private institutions doing 
normal work. In the other four counties visited there were no 
facihties for professional training. 

Teachers' salaries vary a great deal, not only from county to 
county, but also within a single county. Table 9 shows the variation 
of the average annual salary in different counties, and Table 10 shows 
the variation of salaries within seven counties that were investigated 
in this respect. 

Table 9. — Average salaries paid teachers in the Appalachian counties. 



Average salary paid teach- 
ers for school year. 



Number of counties. 



In Ala- 
bama. 



In 
Georgia. 



In Ken- 
tucky 



In 

North 
Caro- 
lina. 



In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 



In Ten- 
nessee. 



In Vir- 
ginia. 



In 

West 
Vir- 
ginia. 



In the 
entire 
region. 



$100-$120. 
$120-$1-10. 
$140-$160. 
$160-$! 80. 
$180-8200. 
$200-$220. 
$220-8240. 
$240-$260. 
$260-$2S0. 
$280-$300. 
$300-$320. 
$320-$3'10. 
$340-8360. 
$360-8380. 
$380-8400. 
$400-^420. 
$420-8440. 
$440-$460. 
$460-$480. 
$480-$500. 
$500-8520. 



Total counties included. 



1 
214 



' One county in Tennessee reports an average salary of $655, and 1 in North Carolina reports an aver- 
age of $56. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



19 



Table 10. — Salaries received by teachers in seven Appalachian 


counties. 




* 


Teachers — 


Salaries lor school year. 


In 

Blount 

Coxmty, 

Tenn.,1 

1913. 


In 

Buch- 
anan 
County, 
Va., 
■ 1913. 


In 

Cumber- 
land 

Coimty, 

Tenn., 

1913. 


In 

Hancock 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 


In 

Hawkins 

County, 

Tenn. 

1913. 


In 

Jackson 

County, 

N. C, 

1913. 


In 

Wise 

County, 

Va., 

1912. 


j40_$60 




1 
3 
3 
2 
3 
8 
3 
1 
11 
4 
1 
9 




1 








$60-$S0 










1 


$80-$lo6 




2 










$100-$120 




4 

4 

5 

33 






3 


$120-$140 


1 
7 

28 
41 
30 
5 
1 
1 
1 


2 
13 
18 


1 

7 

8 

27 

30 

12 

24 

11 

2 

2 


36 
2 


3 


$140-$160 


5 


$160-$1S0 


8 


$1S0-S200 


2 
3 
1 
5 


13 


$200-?220 


21 
1 


1 


11 


$220-$240 


S 


$24(>-$260 


3 
1 


8 


$26O-$280 


1 


9 


$280-$300 


10 
3 
5 


7 


$30(>-$320 


3 






6 


$320- $340 




1 




2 


$34O-$360 . . 










2 


$360-S3S0 




3 






1 




8 


$380-$400 










2 


$40O-$420 




1 


4 






4 
1 


22 


$420-$440 








3 


$440-5460 




3 


i 






11 


$46O-$480 










1 


$480-$500 




1 


1 
1 
1 
1 






1 
3 

1 
2 


6 










8 


$60O-SS00 






2 




3 






1 




7 













1 Salaries of 12 teachers in Maryville not included. 

The median of the county average is S237. That is, in 108 counties 
the average salary is more than .$237, and in 108 counties the average 
salary is less than S237. This figure is probably very nearly the 
average salary in this region. With an average term of 112 days, 
the average pay for a teacher is therefore very nearly $2 per day. 
The nature of averages, however, is such that there are probably many 
more teachers who receive less than S237 per year than there are who 
receive more than that. If we had six teachers receiving $100 a year 
and one receiving SI, 000 a year, the average salary would be S225 
a year. The single high salary makes the average misrepresent the 
actual conditions. Table 10 shows how these averages are made up. 

In most of the counties there is nothing to insure higher salaries or 
precedence to teachers holding higher-grade certificates. In many 
instances a holder of a third-grade certificate may make application 
for the same school for which the holder of a first-grade certificate 
has applied. In some instances holders of third-grade certificates 
actually receive higher salaries than some of the holders of first-grade 
certificates in the same county; or they are employed while holders of 
first-grade certificates can not get schools. This is true, of course, in 
counties in other sections. A few of the counties pay salaries accord- 
ing to the grade of certificate held; e. g., $30 a month for a third-grade 
certificate, $35 for a second-grade, and $40 for a first-grade. 



20 SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 

Wliile salaries are very low, living expenses, too, are low. In 
Blount County, Tenn., board and room for the teacher costs from 
$8 to $12 per month; in Buchanan County, Va., from $6 to S16; in 
Cumberland County, Tenn., SIO to $15; in Hancock County, Tenn., 
$5 to $9; in Hawkins County, Temi., $10 to $15; in Wise County, 
Va., $10 to $25 in some of the mining towns; and so on. These 
figures probably are representative of the entire region outside of 
the large cities. 

Even with living expenses as low as they are, it is still true that 
many of the teachers do not receive a salary large enough to support 
them for the entire year. This means that they must work at some- 
thing else, and if they have abihty enough to succeed at this other 
work, they soon stop teaching. Teaching is no more a profession in 
this section than in the rural portion of most other sections of the 
country. 

In some locahties Hving conditions are such that it is difficult to 
find teachers who will stay. This accounts for the shortness of some 
of the school terms and for the lack of schools in some communities. 
One county superintendent reported that he had solved this problem 
in his county by turning the school funds for these communities over 
to church mission boards, and asking them to provide teachers. 
Three of the six superintendents visited are trying to solve the prob- 
lem by gettmg children from these communities to go elsewhere to 
school, and then return to their home counties to teach. Two of 
them report that they have found it difficult to get the young people 
back into these communities after they have once got away. 

The average enrollment per teacher for counties varies from 26 to 
70. For the entire region the average is 40. These averages are in 
few cases excessive. Table 11 shows the enrollment per individual 
teacher in six counties. 

Throughout almost the entire region, outside of the cities, text- 
books must be furnished by the parents. Most of the States have 
laws providing for the purchasing of text-books for pupils whose 
parents can not buy them, but these laws are applied only in extreme 
cases. In very many of the schools the work is hampered by short- 
age of text-books. 

Not only are the texts often inadequate, but also they are often 
ill-adapted to use in mountain schools. In one school in a place 
where wagons could not go children were found reading a story of 
the personal reminiscences of a street-car horse in New York City. 
A Httle girl was found crying on the way home from school because 
she had misspelled "bohea." A geography class was found naming 
the three highest peaks in the world, but the pupils did not know in 
what mountain system they Hved nor into what ocean the water in 
the creek in front of the schoolhouse flowed. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 21 

Table 11. — Numbers of pupils enrolled per teacher in six Appalachian counties. 





Teachers. 


Pupils enrolled. 


In 

Blount 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913.1 


In Bu- 
chanan 
County, 
Va., 1913. 


In Cum- 
berland 
County, 
Tenn., 
1913. 


In 

Hancock 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 


In 

Hawkins 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913.' 


In Wise 
County, 
Va., 1912. 


10-15 


? 

3 

10 

11 

12 

8 

15 

10 

9 

6 

10 

1 

3 

1 

1 

1 


5 
3 
7 
6 
9 
10 
3 
5 
5 
1 
1 


1 

7 
5 

7 
8 
7 
8 
7 
5 
1 
3 
2 


1 




5 


15-20 






20-25 


2 
1 

3 
6 
6 
5 
4 
3 
8 
3 


2 
4 
6 
9 
8 
11 
14 
8 
5 
9 
1 
1 


7 


25-30 


6 


30-35 


13 


35-40 


13 


40-45 


9 


45-50 


4 


50-55 


13 


55-60 


8 


60-65 


8 


65-70 


7 


70-75 




1 


75-80 






1 
5 
1 
2 


2 


80-85 


1 


1 
1 


4 


85-90 


1 


2 


90-95 






95-100 








4 

















1 Enrollment not given for 12 teachers in Maryville, Blount County. 

2 Enrollment is not available for 46 of the teachers in Hawkins County. 

Globes, charts, and apparatus of all sorts must, in many instances, 
be furnished by the teacher, if they are to be used at all. In one of 
six counties investigated the teachers even had to buy fuel. The 
superintendent stated that he had required this in order to avoid over- 
charging and waste, and that he had raised salaries to cover the esti- 
mated expense. The average annual salary in that county was $224 
in 1912; out of this fuel was purchased. 

Special work — sewing, cooking, woodwork, agriculture, and 
handwork of various kinds — is being undertaken in a good many of 
the counties. Buchanan County, Va., has started work in sewing 
in five schools and has a woodworking shop in connection with one 
of the two-room schools. Cumberland County, Tenn., has a potato 
club of about 40 members; a corn-acreage contest, hmited to boys, 
and in charge of a corn demonstrator; a newly organized girls' can- 
ning club; and a farmers' cooperative store. Hawkins County, 
Tenn., has a boys' corn club of about 20 members and five or six 
debating societies. Wise County, Va., has sewing in some of the 
schools, a boys' corn club, debating societies rather well organized, 
taking in a good many one-room schools, and plans were laid for a 
school fair the following year. There are six high schools in the county 
and they have a thriving athletic association and an annual declama- 
tion contest. Jackson County, N. C, has a county commencement, a 
boys' corn club, and county declamation, recitation, and spelling 
contests. These are five of the seven counties investigated in regard 
to special activities of various kinds. The other two counties reported 
no special activities in connection with their school work. 



22 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



Besides these special forms of school work, basket suppers are fre- 
quently given in the separate schools to raise funds for school pur- 
poses — special equipment, decorations, or hbraries. Hawkins County 
reports $1,486 raised during one year in this way. 

School libraries are finding their way into most of this region. 
Figures are available from all of the States except North and South 
Carolina. There are 185 Appalachian counties in the six States 
from which these figures are available, and in only 23 of these counties 
are no school libraries reported. The number of libraries in a county 
varies from 1 to 164. In all, 4,089 libraries are reported. The 
average number of volumes in libraries is over 60 in three-fourths of 
the counties. 

SCHOOLHOUSES. 

The character of schoolhouses varies from the log-cabin type, 
without glass in the windows and with homemade benches, to the 
most modern of buildings, fitted with furniture and appliances of 
the very latest and best design. The average condition is probably 
below that of other sections of those States. 

The value of buildings is the most available figure to represent 
their general condition, but it must be remembered that building 
material costs less in the momitains than in most sections of the 
country and that labor is often donated. The accompanying pho- 
tographs should give some idea of what is meant by the various 
values. 

Table 12 shows the average values of building by counties and Table 
13 shows the value by individual buildings in six counties. 

Table 12. — Average values of school buildings in the Appalachian counties. 



Average value of school 
buildings. 



Less than $100. . 

$100-$200 

$200-«300 

$300-1400 

$400-8500 

$500-$600 

$600-$700 

$70(>-«800 

$800-«900 

$900-$l,000 

$1,000-$1,100.... 
$1,100-11, 200.... 

$1,200-81,300 

$1,300-$1,400.... 
$1,400-$1,500.... 
$1,500-$1,600.... 
$1,600-$1,700.... 
$l,7OO-$l,S0O.... 
$1,800-81,900.... 

$1,900-82,000 

$2,000-83,000 

$3,000 and over. 



Total counties included. 



Number of counties. 



In 
Ala- 
bama. 



In 

Georgia. 



In 
Ken- 
tucky. 



In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 



In 
South 
Caro- 
lina. 



In 
Ten- 
nessee.! 



In 
Vir- 
ginia. 



In 
West 
ViT- 
ginia. 



In the 
entire 
region. 



214 



I Information is not available from 2 coimties in Tennessee. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 23 

Table 13. — Values of school buildings in six Appalachian counties. 



Value of school buildings. 



Buildings. 



In Blount 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In Bu- 
chanan 
County, 
Va., 
1913.1 



In Cum- 
berland 
County, 
Tenn., 
1913. 



In Han- 
cock 
County, 
Tenn., 
1913. 



In Haw- 
kins 

County, 

Tenn., 

1913. 



In Wise 

County, 

Va., 

1912. 



Less than $100.. 

|100-$200 

$200-S.300 

$300-5400 

J40O-$500 

$500-$fi00 

$600-$700 

$700-$800 

$800-$900 

$900-^1,000 

$l,000-il,100.... 
SI, 100-81,200.... 
$l,20O-$l,300.... 
$1,300-$1,400.... 
$1,400-$1,500.... 
$1,500-81,600... . 
$1,600-81,700.... 
$1,700-81,800.... 
$1,800-81,900.... 
$1,900-82,000.... 
$2,000-83,000.... 
$3,000 and over. 



1 The values of 5 buildings in Buchanan County are not given. 

Building is going on at a rapid rate. The figures given for Wise 
County, Va., are for the year 1911-12. During the year 1912-13 seven 
new schools were built, and in two instances involvmg consolidation. 
This consolidation is made possible by improved road conditions. 
In Buchanan County, Va., they have rebuilt nearly half of the school 
buildhags in the last four years. Almost 78 per cent of the school 
funds of the county were used for building purposes in 1912. Cum- 
berland, Hawkins, and Blount Counties, Tenn., are rebuilding at a rate 
sufficient to replace all school buildings in about 20 years. Hancock 
County has built nine new buildings in the last two years at an aver- 
age cost of a Httle over $500 each. 

School consohdation is going on in most of the counties. In all of 
the six counties visited this is true to some extent. In Hawkins 
County, Term., 31 school buildings have been abandoned through 
consolidation in the past nine years. Just how far this movement 
can go m a very mountainous county is difficult to say. It seems 
reasonable to hope that eventually, with improved roads and by the 
use of transportation, the average school might be made to serve a 
territory of 12 square miles. If this can be accomplished, the number 
of white schools in these 216 counties will be reduced from 16,430 to 
8,115. The actual number of schools serving different areas in three 
counties is shown below. 



24 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 
Extent of areas served by schools. 



Cumber- 
land.! 



Hawkins. 



Wise. 



Schools serving — 

Less than 4 square miles. 

4 to 8 square miles 

8 to 12 square miles 

Over 12 square miles 



1 Cumberland is a large county with sparse population. In some sections of the county there are many 
square miles with few or no inhabitants. 

In these counties, at any rate, there are as many schools that serve 
too small an area as there are that serve too large an area. 

There are schools doing from one to four years of high-school work 
in most of the Appalachian counties. In only 47 of the 216 counties 
are no such schools reported. Many of the high schools in the 
mountains have courses of only one or two years above elementary 
work. In general the character of this high-school work is formal 
and academic. In some instances, however, d. ^finite attempts have 
been made to introduce agriculture, domestic science, and like sub- 
jects into the curriculum and to adjust the high-school work to real 
community needs. 

The counties having no high schools in 1912 were situated mainly 
in Kentucky and Tennessee, where there were, respectively, 17 and 14 
such counties. There were also 5 counties in Georgia, 1 in North 
Carolina, 4 in Virginia, and 6 in West Virginia with no high schools. ^ 

Table 14 shows the number enrolled in high school from every 1,000 
children between the ages of 6 and 20, inclusive. 

Table 14. — Number of pupils enrolled in high school from every 1,000 children 6 to 20 
years of age in the Appalachian counties of six States? 





Counties. 


Enrolled in high school from 
every 1,000 children 6 to 20. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In Geor- 
gia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In North 
Carolina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
Appala- 
chian 
region in 
these 
States. 


0-5 




4 
9 

1 
2 


8 
3 


2 
4 
4 
6 

1 
1 
1 
2 


4 
4 
3 
1 

4 
4 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 


1 
1 
3 
2 
7 
2 
5 
5 
3 

4 


17 


5-10 


3 

4 
4 
6 
1 
1 
2 


24 


10-15 


15 


15 20 




15 


20-25 




18 


25-30 




1 


9 


30-35.. 




9 


35-40 






11 


40-45 






5 


45-50 










5 


50-100 


1 








7 




1 


1 




2 














Total counties included 


22 


22 


30 


22 


44 


40 


180 



' Since 1912 a few additional mountain counties have established high schools. 

^This uiforniation is not available from the 30 Appalachian counties in South Carolina and West Vir- 
ginia. In Georgia, 5 counties have no high school; m Kentucky, 17; in North Carolina, 1; in Tennessee, 14; 
m Virginia, 4; in the entire Appalachian region in these States, 41. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 
40 r 



3S- 



BULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 9 



30 



as 



20- 



15 



10 



5- 



/ 



y 



n-. n-. 



7 



^ » 4- <p eeo. 



JSLCL 



.2ia. 



jO£ 



(a) Distribution of different percentages of total population that are native whites of native 
parentage. (See the last column of table 1 .) Percentages are scaled on the horizontal line; 
tlie number of counties is scaled vertically. Thus, reading from left to right, there are two 
counties having between 50 and 52 per cent of their population composed of native whites of 
native parentage, one county having between 52 and 54 percent so composed, no counties 
having between 54 and 58 per cent, and so on across to 39 counties having between 98 and 
100 per cent native whites of native parentage. 



KVV^WWWVWWN 



(b) Percentage of total population of the 8 States that is composed of native whites of native 
parentage. (The portion representing native whites of native parentage is shaded.) 

(c) Percentage of total population of the 215 Appalachian counties that is composed of native 
whites of native parentage. 

(d) Percentage of the total population of the 97 "mountain" counties that is composed of 
native whites of native parentage. 



NATIVE WHITES OE NATIVE PARENTAGE. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 
33- 



30- 



5ULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 10 



2«- 



20 



IS- 



10- 
9- 
8 - 
7 - 
6- 
5- 
4- 
3- 
2- 



£ 



1_ 



n 



& 2 •<T ^ a iO 12. 14' l£> le 20 22 24 26 23 30 32 34 3fa 

(a) Distribution of different percentages of illiteracy among native whites 10 years of age or 
over. (See last column of table 2.) Percentages are scaled on the horizontal lines; the 
number of counties havingthe different percentages is scaled vertically. 



^ 



(b) Percentage of illiteracy among native whites throughout the entire 8 States (9,3). 



^^ 



(c) Percentage of illiteracy among native wliites throughout the 1 1 5 Appalachian counties (12.6). 



(d) Percentageof illiteracy among native wliites throughout the 97 " mountain " counties (15.9). 



NATIVE WHITE ILLITERACY. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



35. 



5ULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 11 



30. 



2«- 



20. 



IS 



10 



s- 

4- 
0- 
2- 
I- 

ot 



•40 45 50 55 60 



70 



do 



90 



100 



(a) Distribution of tine different numbers of clii Id ran enrolled from every 100 between the a'^es 
of 5 and 20, inclusive. (See last column of table 3.) The number enrolled from every 100 is 
scaled on the horizontal line; the number of counties enrolling the different numbers are 
shown vertically. 

(b) Number enrolled in school from every 1 00 clii Id ren throughout the 8 States (63.6). 

i^vm^\v^\v\v\\^^^^^^ 1 

(c) Number enrolled in school from every 100 children throughout the Appalachian counties 
(65.9). 



(d) Number enrolled in school from every 100 children throughout the " mountain " counties 
(72.3). 



ENROLLMENT FROM EVERY HUNDRED CHILDREN. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

S3r 



so 



iULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 12 



4S. 



40 



3S- 



ao. 



2S. 



20 



IS> 



10. 

S ' I ' 

ot I 



30 3S 40 4S SO S>5 <oO i>S 70 75 SO aS 90 95 100 

(a) Distribution of the number of cliildren attending daily from every 100 enrolled. (See last 
column of table 4.) The number of children attending daily is scaled on the horizontal line; 
the number of counties in which the different numbers of children attend daily is scaled 
vertically. 



kVVVVVVVVVVV^VVV^^^^^^^ 



(b) Number of children attending school daily from every 100 enrolled throughout the 8 States 
(63.6J. 



kV\V\V\\V\V\V\\'^^^:3:^^ 



(c) Number of children attending school daily from every 100 enrolled throughout the Appa- 
lachian counties (63.1). 



k\\\\X\\\\\\N^^SS\\\^ 



(d) Number of children attending school daily from ewery 100 enrolled throughout the " moun- 
tain " counties (61 .2). 



ATTENDANCE DAILY FOR EVERY 100 ENROLLED. 



5ULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 13 



Ln 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

2.4r 
23 
22 
2.1 
20 
19 
16 
17 
li> 
15 
14 
13 
12 
II 
10 
9 
6 



S 

4 

3 

2|> 

I 

0\- 

45 70 75 ©0 90 100 110 120 l30 140 l§0 1^ l70 IflO 

(a) Distribution of the different average lengths of annual school session. (See last column of 
table 7.) The different number of days of school session are scaled on the horizontal line; 
the number of counties havingthe different lengths of session is scaled vertically. 



In 



(b) Average length of school session throughout the rural schools of the United States (137 
days). 



(c) Average length of school session throughout the 8 States (123 days). 



(d) Average length of school session throughout the Appalachian counties (112 days). 



(e) Average length of school session throughout the " mountain " counties (104 days). 



LENGTH OF SESSION. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

39 r 



^S- 



5ULLETIN. 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 14 



00 



»s 



ao 



15 



s- 

4 
3- 
2- 
I - 




2,0 25 ^O 



•40 



■SO 



60 



ro 




(a) Distribution of the different number of days tine average child attends school. (See last 
column of table 8.) The different numbers of days attended by the average child are 
scaled on the horizontal line; the number of counties in which the average child attends 
forthese numbers of days is scaled vertically. 



(b) Number of days the average child in the 8 States attends school (49.9 days). 



(c) Number of days the average child in the Appalachian counties attends school (48.3 days). 



(d) Number of days the average child in the " mountain " counties attends school (45 days). 



DAYS EACH 6-20-YEAR-OLD CHILD ATTENDS SCHOOL. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 
2.7 r 



ZS 



iULLETIN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 15 



zo 



15 



10 



I ■ 



1_ 



\n 



J 



OOOQOOOOOOOOOOOO 



o 2 o 

M '*^ vS 



o o 

' o 



^ 



(a) Distribution of annual teachers' salaries. (See last column of table 9). Salariesare 
scaled horizontally; counties vertically. 



(b) Average annual salary of teachers throughout the United States in 191 1 ($466). 



(c) Average annual salary of teachers throughout the Appalachian counties ($237). 



TEACHERS' SALARIES. 



BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

43 



iULLETlN, 1915, NO. 11 PLATE 16 



AQ 



35 



30 



»S 



ZO 



15 



10 




7. 3 A, S 6 7 a 9 10 11 IZ 13 14 15 



(a) Distribution of the different amounts expended for schools per child of school age. (See 
last column of table 15.) The amounts expended are scaled horizontally; the counties 
expending these amounts are scaled vertically. 



(b) Amount spent for school purposes for the average child throughout the United States in 
1911 ($16.09). 



(c) Amount spent for school purposes for the average child throughout the 8 States ($6.60). 



(d) Amount spent for school purposes for the average child throughout the Appalachian 
counties ($6.4-1 ). 



(e) Amount spent for school purposes for the average child throughout the "mountain' 
counties ($4.72). 



EXPENDITURES PER CHILD OF SCHOOL AGE. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 



25 



SCHOOL EXPENDITURES. 

The annual expenditure per capita of school population (6 to 20, 
inclusive) in the eight States is $6.60. In the 216 counties of the 
Appalachian region it is $6.41, and in the 98 mountain counties it is 
$4.79. 

In all statements involving dollars and cents, one must bear in 
mind that many of the necessaries and comforts of life are cheaper in 
the mountain region than in many other sections of the country. 
Nevertheless, the disparity in expenditures for the mountain child 
and for the child tliroughout the remainder of the coimtry is too great 
to be explained in this way, and the opportunities of the children for 
education in this section are less than elsewhere 

Table 15 shows the average expenditure per child in the Appa- 
lachian region by counties. It is worthy of note that there are 100 
counties m which the annual expenditure for each child of school age 
is less than $5 and that in two counties it is less than $2. The con- 
trast in educational conditions in this entire region is brought out by 
the fact that there are 29 counties expending over $10 for each child, 
and two counties more than $15. 



Table 15. — Amounts expended per child {6-20 years of age) in the Appalachian counties. 





Counties. 


Expenditure per child &-20 
per school year. 


In . 

Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Geor- 
gia. 


In 
Ken- 
tucky. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

Ten- 
nessee. 


In 

Vir- 
ginia. 


In 
West 

Vir- 
ginia. 


In 

the 
entire 
region. 


$l-$2 












2 
I 

14 
6 

10 
6 
4 






2 


82-$3 


2 
7 
11 

1 


7 
9 
4 


io' 

17 


3 
7 
4 
5 
2 

1 


3' 

2 


1 
3 
4 
8 
6 
6 
3 
1 
5 
1 


5' 

3 
5 

7 
2 
I 

1 
1 




$3-S4 


43 


$4-?5 


$5-«6 




$6-S7 






$7-S8 






1 


12 


$8-$9 






g 


$^^10 




1 


1 


1 






7 


$10-S11 


1 




2 


13 


$11-812 










$12-$13 














2 


$13-$14 














1 
1 


2 


$14-515 














2 


$15 and over 












1 


2 
















Total counties included. 


22 


21 


1 29 


'23 


5 


46 


40 


25 


211 



' II formation is not available from 2 of the counties in Kentucky: and Avery, Caldwell, Mitchell, and 
Watauga Counties in North Carolina have been grouped together and treated as 1 county. 



26 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



The expenditure per child enrolled and the salary cost per child 
enrolled show about the same facts as the expenditure per child. 
The general facts concerning these three items are shown below. 

School expenditures per child. 



In the entire United States in 1911 

In rural schools hi the United States in 1910. 

In the 8 States 

In the 216 Appalachian counties 

In the 98 mountain counties 



i Expendi- 
ture per 

child 6 to 
20 years 
of age. 



$16.09 



6.60 
6.41 
4.79 



Erpendi- 
ture per 

child 
enrolled. 



$23. 56 



10.37 
19.58 
2 6.54 



Expendi- 
ture lor 
salaries 
per ehUd 
enrolled. 



$14. 06 

10.60 

6.26 

J 6. 41 

2 4.66 



' Information from 2 counties is not available. 



2 Information from 1 county is not available. 



The percentage of the total school expenditures paid to teachers 
varies greatly. The amount wiU, of course, vary as the amount of 
expenditures for new buildings and equipment varies. The 22 per 
cent reported paid to teachers in one county is too low even with 
great activity in building. Percentages over 90, reported in 12 
counties, are high and indicate no building activities. The median 
for the 216 counties is 68.5 per cent, and probably represents the 
normal proportion for this region at this time. Table 16 shows the 
variation among the 216 counties in this respect. The 26 counties 
paying their teachers less than 50 per cent of the total school fund 
are probably those that are doing much building. 

Table 16. — Percentages of school expenditures that are paid to teachers in the Appalachian 

counties. 











"bounties 








Paid to teachers from total 
school expenditiu-e. 


In Ala- 
bama. 


In 
Geor- 
gia. 


In Ken- 
tucky. 


In 
North 
Caro- 
lina. 


In 

South 
Caro- 
lina. 


In Ten- 
nessee. 


In Vir- 
ginia. 


In West 
Vir- 
ginia. 


In the 
entire 
region. 


Per cents. 
20-25 














1 




1 


25-30 












1 
1 
4 
3 
4 
6 
3 
8 
3 
3 
2 
5 
2 


1 


30-35 








1 
1 
1 
1 

4 
5 
3 
3 
4 
3 


i' 

1 

2 

1 






2 


35-40 








2 

1 
5 
5 
3 
10 
7 
2 
4 


1 

i' 

1 

2 
8 
7 
5 


6 


40-45 




1 


1 
1 


8 


45-50 




8 


50-55 


2 
3 

5 




18 


55-60 




1 


19 


60-65 


27 


65-70 




2 
7 
9 
5 
4 
1 


26 


70-75 






27 


75-80 


3 
3 
3 
1 
2 


2 
4 
6 
8 


21 


8a-«5 


23 


85-90 


16 


90-95 - - 






10 


95-100 












2 




















Total counties included . . 


22 


21 


31 


26 


5 


'45 


40 


25 


215 



1 Information not available from 1 county in Tennessee. 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 27 

PRIVATE SCHOOLS. 

There are two widely prevalent misconceptions concerning private 
elementary schools in the mountain region. One is that private 
schools are the only educative agents in this region; the other is that 
the private schools are so good and so numerous as to be an excuse 
for poor public schools. Both ideas are based on an overestimation 
of the extent of private school work. There are people who claim 
that the private schools in the Appalachian counties do so much of 
the work done by public schools in some sections of the country that 
a study of the public schools alone is of httle or no real value in 
determining the educational status of these counties. 

Unfortunately, private school statistics are available only from the 
States of Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia. These four 
States, however, may be considered as typical, and they actually 
represent 139 of the 216 Appalachian counties. In 54 of these 139 
counties there are no private schools doing elementary or secondary 
work. In the 75 counties having private schools the percentage of 
the total elementary and secondary enrollment that is in private 
schools varies from three-tenths of 1 per cent to 16.6 per cent. Infor- 
mation for the States individually follows: 

In Alabama 2.8 per cent of children in primary and secondary 
schools are enrolled in private institutions. Of the 22 counties in 
the Appalachian section of the State, only 9 report any private 
schools at all. In these 9 counties the variation in percentage of 
pupils enrolled in private schools is from 1.1 to 8.4. 

In Kentucky 3.1 per cent of the total school enrollment is in 
private schools. There are private institutions doing elementary or 
secondary work in 19 of the 31 Appalachian counties, and the per- 
centage enrolled in private schools in these 19 counties varies from 
0.3 to 13.7. 

In Tennessee 2.6 per cent of the total elementary and secondary 
enrollment is in private schools. There are private schools in 22 of 
the 46 Appalachian counties, and the percentage enrolled in private 
schools in these 22 counties varies from 2 to 16.6. 

In Virginia 3.8 per cent of the total enrollment in schools below 
coUege rank is in private institutions. There are private schools in 
25 of the 40 Appalachian counties, and the percentage enrolled in 
private schools in these counties varies from 0.3 to 14.1. 

Where there are successful private schools, they draw students 
from more than one county. This accounts for the occasional high 
percentage of pupils in the private schools of a county. 

These figures indicate that private elementary and secondary 
schools are not doing as much of the educational work in these 
States as is often supposed. They certainly are not taking, and 



28 SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 

never can take, the place of the public schools. Their function 
would seem to be either to work in communities where public schools 
can not be maintained, as indicated previously, or to do work better 
than the public -schools are doing, or to do work of a kind that public 
schools are not doing, or to supplement the public schools in such a 
way as to induce the people themselves to demand better public 
schools. In the last three cases the aim should be to do the work 
in such a way that it can be imitated by the public schools and that 
the work may be taken over by the public schools as soon as pos- 
sible without loss of efficiency. It is unfortunate when the pres- 
ence of a private school prevents the establishment or improvement 
of a public school that would do the same work. 

This discussion, of course, concerns only elementary and second- 
ary schools. Colleges, normal, professional, and industrial schools, 
both private and public, deserve special consideration that it is im- 
possible to give in this brief study. 

SUMMARY. 

The following general conclusions in regard to educational condi- 
tions in the Appalachian region seem warranted by this study. 

Conditions vary from the very worst to very nearly the best, and 
are constantly improving. New buildings are replacing the old; 
modern equipment is being introduced; the school term is being 
lengthened; special activities of many kinds are coming to supple- 
ment the traditional work; and piibHc sentiment is aroused. The 
school enrollment, attendance, and term in the entire region are a 
little worse than throughout the other portions of the States in which 
the mountains lie; some counties are well above the average, and 
there are some counties that are very much below any reasonable 
standard. 

Teachers' salaries are low, even when the low cost of living is 
taken into account. Most of the teachers have little or no pro- 
fessional training. Facilities for such training are increasing, and 
such training will necessitate higher salaries. Supervision is inade- 
quate. Even good teachers need good supervision; young and un- 
trained teachers, as most of the mountain teachers are, have espe- 
cial need of assistance and suggestion. 

The curriculum is often haphazard, and the texts are a painful 
misfit. State courses of study, in the States in which they exist, 
can not meet aU the varying need of communities as diverse as the 
communities in this region. It is very rare for any other. course of 
study to exist, much less be in force, in any locality. Most of the 
texts used are those written for city schools. 

Special activities in the form of parents' clubs, school improve- 
ment associations, corn, potato, tomato, and canning clubs, manual 



SCHOOL ENROLLMENT. 29 

training, domestic science and domestic art, debating clubs, ath- 
letic meets, and scliool fairs are being introduced iato some com- 
munities. 

The expenditure for education is very much less than it should be. 
Nowhere is it as much as the people can afford. Even where rates of 
taxation are high, the valuation of property is often so low as to make 
the tax on actual values very low. In Tennessee, where the law 
requires assessment at full value, it is commonly stated that assess- 
ment is usually at about one-third of the value. In one county m 
that State the county clerk declares that the usual assessment is not 
more than one-sixth of the full value. But this condition of affairs 
is not peculiar to those counties or to the States in which they are. 

Private schools are supplementing the work of the pubhc schools 
in many places. Some of the private schools are doing only common- 
school work, and are doing it no better than the pubhc schools can 
do it. On the other hand, many of them are doing more and better 
work than the public schools, and are working in places that the pub- 
lic school has failed to reach. 

In many cases efforts at improvement lack definite aim and organi- 
zation. This is true of the work both of public and of private schools. 
Some county superintendents follow the definite policy of building 
new schools in places where the people want them and are willing to 
help in their building, even though there may be other communities 
absolutely without school facilities. Private schools are sometimes 
located without reference to public schools, or even to compete with 
other private schools that are really meeting the needs of a commu- 
nity. Church schools have been transgressors in this regard. In 
some instances rather poor private schools are preventing the estab- 
hshment of public high schools which might be made to serve the 
people much better. 

Pubhc sentiment in favor of good schools is developing; in the 
several State legislatures representatives from these counties usually 
favor increased levies or appropriations for schools, and other pro- 
gressive education measures. This is a fundamental movement, and 
is the most hopeful aspect of the educational situation. When pub- 
lic opinion — representing appreciation of education, desire for better 
opportunities for the children, and beUef in the ability of the people 
to help themselves — is fuUy awake, the conditions here wiU improve 
rapidly, as they have done elsewhere. 

The way to help these people, the only effective way, is to help them 
to help themselves. 



;iO SCHOOLS t»F THE APPALACHIAN MOUXTAISS;. 

STATISTICS, 

General mfonuAtioii and conclusioiks kavie been given in the pri^- 
ceifing ptges; like dcitadled infcamauon on vrhich these conclusions 
«i« lautgelT based k^ gi^'^n in th« fcJlowii^ taldets. The information 
fe giT«a in cohrmns, all the* inlioniiatk«i for a single county appearing 
m tbft cohuuii lukdtt' the iMODie cl that county. The relative standing 
of ;a coimtT in K^eet to a ^i^:)e item may be determined by con> 
parboii vith the giH»aril summary of that item in ihe preceding pages. 

FcMT exatfloqple, siqspose one isishes to find out how Loudoun County. 
Va., coo^pwres wiidi other Appaladuan counties in ki^th of school 
t«ia» Undor die colamn headed *' Loudoun County'' in the tables 
of thki a^ppendSx. opposite item ' -16 ** on the left-hand margin of the 
pa^. eadtled ''LeiB^th oi session, in days." we find lo2. That metans 
liiat the lei^di of the sichooi term in Loudoun County is 152 days, 
TiicHng mvw to TUble 7 wi» find that Loudoun has a loi^iin- term 
t^ban any odier Ajyalarhiam county in Yiigima, that it is the only 
county having a s^o<:4 sesaon between 150 and 155 days in length. 
and idhat dMr& are oidy :9X counties in the eotine Appalachian region 
that have loDgcr sdiool t«msw 

An aitempt hats been made to indode r2 items of informatkm con- 
coBBD^ each of the counties. The same infoimaticm is given for 
OM^ entire State. Itcsss 1 to 13 and 21 to 30, indoave, are taken 
d i i ec th r froni the 1910 ooisqs^ The other itoiB ar^e taken from the 
State reports of the respective States, or ar« caladated fttMn figures 
taken frooa these reports or the 1910 cioisas. In makii^ caJculations, 
aft remantdos have beoi %DMed. The 1911 reports are used for the 
States of Georgia and Koitnc^: tor the other States the 1912 reports 
are used. 

The sidiool pi^wlatinm is taken as die nurnb^' <^ childroi between 
the ages of 6 and 20, ndi^ve. These %ures are takm from the 
1910 ceososs a&d are d»e same for all States. The legal schoid age 
m the re^ecdve Siaies is i>:<i ihe same, and so ^nres from the State 
nporfe that have to do with school populaticm are not directly ctxair 
puai!^. T!^ is partiddaiiy tree <^ the percent^e of children 
enrolk-i Tiir -se of the umfcna 6 to 20 papulation makes these 
±-:r s :: ^ . Stales cwnparahle. 

!:_ -^ _ "^ Tie school age h^ins at 7, so that the 

IL-— -^ _ - ^ may not accurat^y nqxesoit the 

!i .-tdties of those States emailing 

' '^present vhat those States 

20. and kcomparahle with 

:p «rf dhildra]. 

---h State. This has 

1 _ _ __ ; _ : be as nearly up to 



51 



iusL. Tofz 
1911 enroDiL 
1910,ji^af' 
die namber 
diildrEJiTepOi T . 
Unis for die St 
Tolved, and 
one year in t/ 

Secmd. T 
di^t. The 

imat- 



S toSf> yesn o/'opp — Pensastofe tifvusvae. 











1 > 



ThinL E- r i:^ ^l^r ~ - -i^ k «d<kd to ffaebttgeon 
centres 



be leas, xvj: -z^.^. ^-- ^ '-_ Ae base of 1 per cent 

too little^ a peieent&r ..ed frona tihs base w9 
be (»ly fire-toiths o: . 

Fointh. Anjinaec ^ tl tends to make ike 



peztcent^e cf enrolti «w*i Aib to 

sdiool ccn^tioiis tibr : . i^betficriatbis 



reelect tban tiiCT ] 

aeticHi: rather, tber ij ;.- 
Fifth. This maccoracy is ~ 

abfy more neadr rcprescni : 

^mes ledomed baan the oil: 
An of tibese reatsoos seem : 
These tables have been ?-:" 

re^>eetive Staiesw 



I 



32 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAlSr MOUNTAINS. 



^ 
^ 



Co 



«>; 



a >> 



do 



II 



QOOcDiOT-H.-Hi-(t^OOO»00>0 

Oi <0 i-H Oi O O Ol O T— I CO 1— t O T-4 



o r^ lo o 



.t>- lOOO 



as t^ (N to -^ »o t^ -ri' o Oi o CI t>- coo -^ c^ 

OC^"rt< -O .1—1 . COtJi .-tji ' 

ccooocii-HOcocn coooico 



OO 'M O IC CC 



'-OC^OGOOrtCO co-^ -^CO 
CO . M* CO . -^ • t^ »o ^ 

coco (NCOiOCO CO 



OS »0 '^ -^ C^ OS r^ O CO O t-^ 1— I IN <N O COO) 

o o o . »o . c-1 . CO c 1 «o . ^ . <o Tf r* 

»-HCOCOt-COOiOOCOl'^tOO»0 00 »-t 



i-H I--^ O 



i-Hr-Tj^oOi-HcocOO'— 'i^OcO 
00>0 .-^ .Oq . O'-H -GO 

cs TT GO CO ocqo cqcoot-' 



OOO tOi-H 



i-l OOCOOSCl O O lO OrH Oi-< CO OS CO rt< CO 

(Ma>co.io.M'. c^co.o .OS coo 

COt-^tO*-lOOCOCOOi cO'-Ht-t^ *>• *-• 



»o Tn »-< CO »o »o OS r^ O lo o: o 00 est 
oot^T-i .CO -co . 00 CO -co .». 

C0COI>.iO OiOCO C000C0»O OS 



CO 00 00 coo 
oo-^ . — t 

OCOCCtM 

^"■COCM 



COI-*COOSiOi-lfOt^ 

C^l T-H O • T-i • CO . 

(M CO CD fM O lO O 



cO<NCQTt* osos wco 



CO OS OS O TP 



ior^t^»ococO'— it^'^'— iTTOOO 
»-iiou:i .cv) .1^ -cscios .CO 
rHcot"- t--c^Ocoor^cot^'-<o 



OO CO to 



lO to »o 



t^ CVJ CO tM 



cCiOrHtOOKMCOOl 
to l^ OC .CO . '^ . 
-^ IN 1-j lO Ot-h CO 

...... _..os 

1-HOi-H O 



CO OS T-< OS OS c^ to c^ 



tOOS '* 



C0(N<MlOC0OsO5^-li-(C^1tOiOOS 
CSCOOO .to .to .COCOOC .1"- 
OOOC^lCN)OsO"^tO'TP:OCO':rCM 

.. - ..Tji ^ ^lo - - -co - 

000000 00 !>• Ot^C^ '— ' 
COCSJO T-H t^ t^coco to 

i-KNOS i-H COI>"-H 



O to '^ Tt' lO 
.CO t^ i-t r- 



03 ? 






O c3 



M_-c3 03 



^HCMC0'^tOC0t>.0005OT-iC^c0"' 



73 d «, fl a? fl ^- . 

u cj-^, O.C; O c3 c3 



cotooocoosocrococO"^t 

to CN .(•-■rH . 00 lO . t-^ UO 



OS CO 00 ^ to t 



^ CO O l^ O I-H t>. W 



CS Tji OCO CO I-H 1-H CO 



O CO O CS OS CD C^ CO C^ '^ '^ Tt*0-^C 

C-IO .CO-^ .OOCS ..-lOs .(NI:-- 

(NOOir^OSCOOOcO-T^OcM iOO(N 

CO cs 1-trH Tt< ^^to to 



CO CO CD O CO OS 'rp (N CO to CO tO r- OS O 

CO'^ .tOl^ .O^ .I^O .-rPiO 

I-H 00 CO 00 CO CO O TT^ O 00 CD QO i-h "^ 

.— t tH OS 1— t Tl< lO -^ "^ 



iOOcOcOCOOS'rt<OsOOt 



CS CO . O rH 



■^OS .OCO 



OS to CO '<Ji OS C<l CO O 1-1 CO CO (N CO "^ 

-I-H .. ^^H -s .M-H -. .V CO -.„ 
^ CVJM OSrH COOO "^"^ 



(M CO to OS ^ OS to OS <N to OO t--.O00O 

(NCO .WtO .^O .0000 .toos 

■^ (M ^ !>■ O O «-< to l> CO <-» GOCSf-H 

^ ^^ ^ ^r~i ^ ^ ^ CO -. 

OSCS 00(N t- Ot- .-1 



f-H0sOOC00SC0C0 1^C0Tt< COCDOOtJ^ 
OO't' .Tr.-H .'^CO .Oto .1— ICO 

t0CsOC0000sC^^c0Tt*»0 (NtP,-i 



CdcOcO 

to o . 

'fl'' o to 



•<^O'«J^C^00r^t0c00S^HO OOtOtOO 

coos .000 .OCO .ooco .too 

w »o ir^ CO CO CD CO CO O 00 CO oo (N .-n 

OStH CCf-( CO '^CO CO 



C<lCOt^OcOCOI>-tOi— tCOO COtOtOC 
tQOO -OO .T-tl^ .OSCO .00 1^ 

TT OSCO OCO 0(N ^ OS tOCN tO t- '^Ji 



-^oiosas'^c<i(Nr>-Oco--i 

CSJ O . to QO . to CS .1-1^ 

OS t-^ OS to O t-^ 00 i-^ to o o 



to CS .1-1- . OS 00 

-- - looo r-- "- 

I-H .... to 



to CD i-H rH CO I^ CO 

o CJ ^ 



t^ rfi CO O CO t-- -^ O t-- '^ GO t-»iOCOCO 00 CO i-H 

coco ..-HCO . I- -^ .-TOO .coc^ ■^co . 

lOCDCOCO'-HOl^-C^C^cOt— 0st>.0 1-HOSN 



00 "^ 0(N Osi-H 



OS to I>. CO 'f CO OS CO I-- C<» CO -^C^Ii-HO 

•^ to . ti:) c 1 . c^ (N . .-I to . c<i CO 

COi-H'^i— OOCO-n^iOOSOSC^ COi-HtH 



tOOOJOSOOOStOt^'^t^OO 
t--.i-H .b-cO -OCO .tOGO 

tot^oscqt--csto-^coccc^ 



OcD<N O 

cooci 



»-Hl-00 oos 



r-H (N O'l* COcO oo 
■rpiO COOO csoo toc^ 



OS 

o o 



^ ^::5 d o '-' « +^ -S 



«^ (U C3 (=1 fl cj ^ 

o o P o o " 



tr n c3 S'" 03 B fl OJ C 



■3^; 



3 3 3 3 a S 3;;i 






Ph 3P 



o.o o 

is ssS 

3 03 3 rt 

^^s g 
flgd 



; So 

.-3 O 

■II ■S& 



Cl q; 03 <" 

S S b — 
9:3 -Eg. 



;5 rH i^ >-i< K-L 

^■Q « o o 
z;m PnfiH 



w 3 L 



Ph<2:z; 



^So 3-n^3« 



o 



OS O 1— I <M CO '«*' to CD t- 00 OS O -H (N CO "^ lO CD I^ OC 
^ M CS C^ C^ C^ C^l CS C^ C^ CS CO CO CO COCOCOCO coc^ 



STATISTICS. 



33 



r- o CO . CO <:© 



* 0C;O CD O c^ c^ (N 



C^ r-4 C^ 00 00 

. -C -^ X> CO 
0»-H CC"M 



OC CJ t- m CO 

. .-H 'TJ' O W 

00f-» 00 (M 






lO o ic . <:D lO 



CO CO CO 

Odi-Ht^^ 



tor^ooooo-^ osooco 
-<r ic GO -tO-^ 'O^. 



00 .-I t^ -^r o CO _- - 
CO OC GO -coco • i-H 



COr-4 GO 






CO O 00 






CO TP OW t^ 



O l>- 1-H C^^ 00 

. T-t CO CO t' 
COi-H IOCS 



O^ 00 0i»0 
. .-H coc^i o 



I>.Oi 00 00^^ 



OS^OO-HOfN COiOi-H C^C0O<M05 






i-f CO CO 05 lo (N 00 00 as c^cooit 

coOO'n* .lOl— .CO * -CO-^^ 



"^ O '** O O "^ 
lO 1^ CO . lO CO 



O T-l '^ CO .— I 



^(N.-HiOO cocor- Ci C^ -t< iM t— 



C^ CO CO . CO O 
OOOI ~ 



CO CO CO -^ 







O i 




■o ■ 








o 1 










a ■ 


CO • 




(3 • 


"o 1 






o ; 












•— < . 




■a : 


XI • 










<d : 


OS : 




<u 1 


^ 1 




fl : 


CI • 










>> • 


>^ • 




na ; 


I^ ' 




03 . 


C3 , 




-a ■ 


X) . 




M : 


W) . 




.a ; 


.a • 




-a . 


T) 




: 


Or 








.f-- 


::^ "^ 


Z^ <a 



a '^ 



os'-S-S 

?3 rt c3 



tjOO 

.3" 



« 9 






C3 o 



i2 a " 

C3 " 3 



f>M^p.e 



O O t^ t,^ t^ 

3 3 ri c3 d a 






• X) Ci 00 -* lOiO ClO O GO 



i-HCO 
- -. CO 



. lO GO -^ C<j .— t yi O 

!-< . . t^ lO O 1— I 

CO -rr c^^ -i|^ 



COOO-MOO rH cOOCi»0»000?0 



CO CO 05 CO :OCi 



rH (>J CO O lO CO 

M (N t> O to C» 
OO 

t^ to e© 
<&©^ 

<N COCO CO "OO 
CQ CM CO CO I- '^ 



r-^ CO Oi -n* o> ■n' 



00 t^ «^ ^ 



rr O 05 — * r- 

OO 
OX' «^ 



.tOCOt^t^rHCOCO 



■<tOcoOcot^»oO 

.OOGOO CO iOI>- 



.— ioOioOOkmOOO 

, .— I c^ o to .— < o 
CO . ,0 t^ .-1 
OS to CO -. -. 



t-~iOCOOOcOtOOO 
. to I— 1 O -'Ji T— I CO 

CO . . '- r-- ^ 



oooOiOtot--roO-^ 



05'*<NOOC0C0^ 



lU^'^ 



OcOiOOOCOC^CO 

. cj o to lo 1— t to r>- 



lO to !•* O CO 



ow e© 



i-HCOCitOtO"^'— I'M 
. CO ■n' C^l I>- t— I o 
O . . C^l to Tp T-H 
00 '^ C^I -c^ 

e©.e^co 



CD iraO'* 00 05 

CO C^i -J* CO o »o 



COOCOOC/^r-HiOiO 



OiO lo r- o> 



OCO 99 



t^'-HCO»005lO»Ct>- 
-OCO t- OS 00 »o 



MpCCOOScOOOO 






Men S [ 

o i^ o c 

c! J' c3 tn : 

O r- O O t 



." o-e S-r, 



y, q c3 tH g 



■3 ^TJ-rJ t, u 

tH t-" q;, © ^ ® 

K O! 05 ® 0) 

?^-r r, rj t^ tH 

:3 ^ © 03 3 3 

g - i^ t,^^ 

g.w 3 g fl fl 



®5 «:;•£: s 

E?=§s.a 

S 32^.-2 „ 

••SSlZ ® o 3 
^ o « jq — 

'2S^^ 

^ c3^-« 

« > o o 



.a ? 



OO o a JJ ! 



^ cl t- *■'* >-A^ 
O G O) t^ >^ ' 



■£ C ri o ti 5 5 

Issliaa 

w 3 3 c3 > a 3 



3 S^'^ t/j 

•3 K O O =3 

fc- PJ f- ^ C3 



c3— -~:3 d 
tH d o o o 



OS O1— ' CS| CO - 



cot— 00 OO'-IMCO"'*^ to 



■^ lO to to to to 



r- -GO o o — < 



COrpiOCOt— 0000— HCl 



to to to CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO C- 1— t-^ 



93148°— 15- 



2 .a 



9 "3 



o t 

^c-iS 

.-^ o 

O Ci o 

.^ -"-^ 

i=l ^S 9 
03 ^-a £ 

c^d.gj:; 

OJl-s+J o 

5-5 a f 

■^ d 0-3 

to o d.a 

.-1 3 03 o 



■"^ o £; c3 
o^ ^ V ;l;^ 

2 S _, <u 

■o.a-d 

d d cc+^ 

■"5:3 d 

-■9 »■« 

d '- 3-3 

o »o 3 

(U c3 O "^ 

^a«o 

. tH 'r' o 

rr: o c^ -fj 

03^ .-M 

M -4 CO '^ 

.2 ;s ti^H 

S|2 

d cs I OJ-. 
- • - • o o 



3 '^ 

« — CO «^ ;■' 

>>03"t3„ 

5 d t>.3 « a 

^ I 

03 ^ 









34 



SCHOOLS OP THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



CQ 



"3 3 

!^0 






Mo 



^ O 






Str, 



So 



lSi=! 



o >* 



ini-M't<'<;t*«0C0C^-^Oi0'-H*^O»0OC0»-H0i 



OOCO OOi-iOcOOi 



.CO .<x>»or* 00 



coiociOi:^oco<M-^ai"^oi'^ir^'*»oio»0'-i< 



.-H t^CO .CO .00 



>o . t^ . OCO oo 



O '^ lO r- rjl tH CO Oi »0 lO >0 "* I>- 1>- i-H T-H 1-4 



*-<t^»Oi-ICCi'*'-<0^t^M*iOiOT-l(NCOCO'* 



iM r-o . -^ . O) 



>0 «3 »0 . lO . O CO C^ C^ 



OitOC^OOf-lOCO^GCOOOlMWfN 



1-H C5 



-. -.-i^ .-I 



0iC0^-^O5'^Gi0C^OO^OS'^C0Oii-l00(Ni-l 



Oi CO CO 0*0 t-H O 05 O OiOCOOOOi 



-o .oococs-* 



4 »0 05 <N '<*' CO r 



I^ CO (M CO 00 



i-Hi-lOOCOi-lt^iCXNcOiOOOOSI^COt^OieOO 
OOOOai .»0 .^ .rfCOi-H -OO .l>-'^C^CO 
t^iOi-c^MOt^COCO-^f-iCiiOW tH(N 

-. -. .^o* -,w ^ -. -<co 

CO lO 00 Tt* O CO CD 

COCM C^ 1-1 cs 



COOOOOO'* 
lO 00 CD . 1-H 



lOiO oooo 

Tt*OS lOCO 
t^cD^ 



■^OOCO■^'*<^»1-^^F 



■I lO lO »0 I>- c 



.ooocs o 



^OOOiOCNiOcOt-H»-i(MOcD 
CO . OiCq .^ .oocoooo 



^'^cot^as 



I-HCO'^IOCO'^CTSIO' 



l^(0»-l'^i-tGO(>J-^ 



'" ■( 00 lO i-H O TJ< 00 CD 05 CD 00 00 »-H 



»oaicsicooot^ooo.-«coa>i^ocDco 



OOCN no .00 . i-H 

OOCOC<ICO ocoo 

^ -,_^-^ ^co 



OO »-l . Oi . CD tO CO Oi 
OO t^ lO lO 00 fir-i 



cDa5r^OC^*raocD'^ 



nr*CPCMiraC?CO'"t'r^>Q.-H»OCO'-H» 

tirH .CO .CO .osc^oo -co .1--C 

OCDOOOCOOOi-tlOaiCOCO.-lCOrH 

^O t^ CO COCMCJ 1-1 

O CTi i-( TT 00 CO 



as* 

as 






t^'^t^co'ooo'^c^osoaioioioi 

iOOCM-^OCNC^CSOOt^'^^CO-^ 

GO T-l CO i-H CO rr CO CO 



0"<^(NCD01000iCOTt*i-lTPC^TPOW^oasi-) 

0000 .^Ol .000 .OCO -Oli-l 00i-< . 
t^i-tcOCOiOC^CDCJlOcOcOOt^Oi t^i-l 



•c^ o cs 



t^OOt^Mi-ICO^OiCOOt^OOt^COOt^uO 

t^io .t^-00 .ooco .»oto .--ri— 1 -^oi • 

t-C0C0OliOiH000000i-<O'*C0I>' t^l^I-* 

CD CO CO^-I OSi-H -^05 Tji'^ Oi 



CO'^^'COOi cOcOC^IOiC^cDOOiCOCOO 
Oi 00 .0 00 .00—1 . I-H CD . *-( »0 
OOOO'^OCSCDO'OCDCOOO'^C^I 

Oi CO CO 1-i CO i-< Oi lO •* 



cocoio>co5co>oa50C^r^TH»ocsio 

<MO .C0»O .»O00 .lOO .M^CD 
iOi-(-rfr^CO'-*CO>Oi-'^'-(»OOirH 






^(NC0Oi05(M-rJi00Ot^»OI>-(NC0O 
CDl"-iOi-ICOa505l>-OC^i— fC^CD^O 



H CO 'rji Cq a> 00 ' 



(Mt^ .COO .coo .-rruO .CiOO C^IO 
lO '^ M »0 — I 1-1 0» CD 00 O »0 i-H Tj4 -^J^ O i 



iO'<S^(NcOl--cOt^OOit^>OCO^OO 
ooco . CO TfH . 1— I O . <N 01 . O Oi 
CDCD'^COiOCOOTT'OOt--T-lrHO 
,. -.^ .^ ^^ ., ^ -.CO -* 



r~GOOiOT-Hi->-co-j'Oi>oasT 

O CD . 00 OS . Ci O . Oi CO 
C005CO'*CO»-IOOOO»0-*r 

■^ !>. O CI 1^ C^ O 00 



(M rH rH 



CO CD ?-l »0 "^ Cl 
Ol ■vf CD O . 
CO O I— I O f— I 

»o"cO*' GO 



— lOOO-— iOi»O»OC0i— tOOiCDTPiOClOSOO'^ 
COCD .l-Tf* -l-^CO .r^— I -CTiCSI Gir-t . 

O^OOiO'^<MI--OOr--OCO^O(M COt>-00 

00 lO tH T-H O rH Ci •* -rf< '^ 



"^O'^COCOcDOOlOOOOCMiOCOOit^C^'^iO 
CM lO . I— I O . CO "^ .0 01 • C:> Oi O Oi . 
I>- CO CO !>- -^ CO 00 C^ ;D 00 CO CO Ol CO i-t -^ Ol 

^ ^^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^CD -v •« *« •« 

'^CO coco t^ CO <^ C<i ooco rH CO 
t^CM Ol Tn COtT CMrH -* 



03 
co^<M 

03 U j_ 

oi <u S 

03 03 o O 

> OT „ O O 

- ^ -• 03 is ,''■' - - . 



So^. 



5'5o-VV 
a fl 

II 3 m Mii^ (3 c3 j; P 



03 .^ 

c3 jj a 

a> o y 









af^ 



c3-rt 

3S 



2 s ^ p 

ggsgs 

O-M !=f i.^ fl _ 



Sal 

■Sao g 

3 C3 a ^73 
rt p> 0^ > O) 



5 H o o y o 









rHi-(r-lr-<.-li-Hi-li-li-li-<C<lC>JC<lCMIN(NN(MNMC0eOC<5eOCOmC0«>CO 



STATISTICS. 



35 



•C«000(M(MI>t^ 



oeooocococoiO'^cO'^^-icO"* 



o oo»-i .00 



O OtH OS c^ 



'^f-H COCSrH 



O»0C0C^'rf<(MC^»C0(NTH'^»0P5O 



-.-lOOOi-H O <M 



TrO9^C*5'^OasC0C^O"^03»0O 

10 10 o . i>- o • o . . o CO 2^n-^ 

O Oi »-l "rf 05 1-H O CO tH O CN 



(M 05'^rH,-HOOC^»005»0(MC0»0C0 

CO COCOCjCOiOCD .lOOr^CT) cot^ 



.OiO »Oi-l 






I^Ot^COcDi-HC^CO-^iOtOcOOOOS 

(N CT> '^ »0 i-l CO .COO'-iO 1-lrH 

CO t^ . . CI . . 00 CO t- i-H 

-V ^ t^ ^ 00 m CO ^«© 



HWO»-t-t^iC'^dOiOOCOQO 
- ,'-1 . .tHOO 

CO -t^ 00 to CO ^e© 

">€©CO 



■^OiOiOCOO .r-HiMTjHr^r-4iOt-^ 



r-'* €^€© 



t>-00C5C0C0i-HO»O-^OC0WO>0i 
CO-t^i-HOOSrH .C0t>.O5iO coo 



OS'* ©©^^ 6^0*^0 



O G0C0 0>O2^C0OC0cDi0Cli-l000Q 



^_-. GO -t^ OD CO CO -,© 

coo 6©e© e^^^rH 



(M(NCOCOOCSC^1CS'*OSCOCOCO» 



Oi-HcDOS-^i-HC^'^COOOi-cOiM 
COCOCOOO*^ . CO C^ CO O 1-H uO 1— I 
lOCO ..t--.,COC^ <Ni-t 

*, -s t^-^CicO-^ - -y ^ 

00 e^€^ e^€^co<M i-H 



ooioco(Nco>oioco-*caot^oc<i 

CJCocD -cot* ."-H . .co»oco»o 



IC rH 1-H O I-H 



O'*(M"<*^c0i0i-HTl*00O«0(NO00 
COf ^t^COCO . coo-— I OStHOO 

^'>i '^ri^ 'O^*^ COr-l 

^ -. 10 CO CO "* CO •.«© •» 

00 €©€^ ©&©§i-t »-H 



»-ICOiOi-t05'-Ht>-r^C^0^1^0lOSCO 

OOCSiO -lOCO .CO - .ococo^ 



(N0S00^^l>-OT-HCOO»O0iTt<OO 

"OOst^ci- ■ -" "— — -- 

100 



CO CO OS t;; CO r 



• coco ^ OS ^ CO 



osco e©e© fi'^e 



COOt^COt^GOMt^rHOOOSCOO 



CO 03 CO . »o »o 



OSt-H COt^T-l 



Tt^COOCOC^CO-^iOCOiOt^COCOOO 
ClCOOiOi-Hi-I^OO'^pOi-iCOiO 



-. .^ CO -t- CO CO 

00O5 €^e^ e© 



l4co"i-r 



C^(MO-*COOC^rH«?l>00»OCOCO 

»OOiO .lOCO • I-H • .i^-oooo 

COC^i-l"^ CO^HCOTti O CO 



,-<Tt<*rt^OI>"-HC^''-^OCOlOOO 

Tt*COcOOSOt^_. "^'^lOt" OcO 

oa CO • "O . .coco CO 

-,^ CO (N OS 10 C^ ^^ 

coco e©e© €^e©io 

^9^ c^ 



t^or*icc^Q"^r^cot>-t>.coiOi-* 
t^r-O .i>.0 .'^_. .t^-itjii-Hco 

OOSi-HQO COi-iOCOOS 00 Ttl 

^ -» -,0 ■<»* OS CO •^^ 



^OOcO^CO(N'^COj5!2t-<COOl 

M 1-1 CD <N I-H CO . =0 t^ w o t>. 'rj< Oi 

CO T-H • • c^ -: ^ ^^00 ^ -^ 



ClOS €©€© ^ 






-2 



7^ CI 

mo 

.3 '22 

:=!^ o o 

^ ^^ 

■C) Boo ■ 
te'"' c3 « S 

,1.2 ^^.-S 



CJ O g C3 » o 






d"-. 000 

frH '-' tH SH t.( 

3 g 3 3 d 



Mc3 ri 

go P 

03 fe^ b 

"S fa n.fci 

1-. o 0) 3 

*^.— <+^s 

o 'i u 

spg o bfl 

8«'§2 

^ rr. ^ tf <1^ ^^ 'S 

*-< T* r2 o o H oj 

p^ 3^ ^2 

3i -a c3x] j'.d o-*^ 



It3't3"2 
O O CO ,^ 



a a '^??, W.S <u.Q 31^ 
' a 322 3 2 P-S 2.3 o S 0-3 

'°'°fesS:52^'S§g<,e-.-^ 

g g £ 00 o_d ^ > 



goo; 

2 i- >« 



la 



22'S fl flo Sioi S 
S 5:! «^'I3 w ^ t; fl a 

^^ X o 3 3 c3 > 3 3 



o M 2 o 
t> •-' 2 o 

^ M.d;d 

3 Md d 03 

O) '5 "3 T3 ° 

03-33:33 '3 
t- 3 o o J' 

CD O 1- H ^ 

t>.ti d a t^ 



010^C^OO'<I*»OCOI^00050.-4C^OC''1^>00 t^!XiOO^HC^lCC-^lOCOt^(Z)050r 



CO -^ "^ TT -^ "" 



i ^ '^ ^ ^ U5 1^ ir^ U3U3 10 to 10 O kO^O O coo ^^ O^ COOC^ t~> t^ 



36 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 






CQ 






T3 >^ 



^5 



§1 
q5 






od 



■2d 



i=_g 






i CO ;o »-H r^ 05 

- , . CO . 

O Or-I QO 



O C-l 00 tN C^ 
-r -r CT- . 
Ci CC O Oi 



ceo 



CC »0 . '^ . TP CO to GO 
04 O i-H TT OS 



OiOCOb-t—C^i— l-fCD 

■^ o . -^ . »o W i>. o 

OS CO COC^ "tP cs 



O00lMi0C'1"«l«<NTHaiI>'05i-HC^'<^C0C^C^TH 
CO -T" OO .O . O . Oi CO OS .O . to ■«»' CD O 
t-(NT:fGOrHOt^OOOOCllOOS T-HCO 

o^O lO w -rr c^ 

COtN i-H (M T-H C^ 1-1 



-t" (N (N COi- 
lOrr tHtH 



00 CO lO . 
CD »0 1-H CO 



CS00»-HO^-CSi-Hi-H 

CO -* O . . 1— I . 

i-H 00 C^ t* O OOCVJ 
- -, -OS 

■<j< CO CO 



1-ICOCOOOOi— liOiO 
CD OS -X- .1-1 . O . 



00"^'»T'OiO'-(C0t- 
O lO »0 . 1— t .1-1 . 
CD 1-1 'V 00 O T-t .-t 
- - '1-1 'OO 

CO»-i <N i-< 



Tt«QOcDcDOS,-tT-<0 
00 O t^ . -^ .00 . 
cHt^rrcDi-lC^i-H-D 

.. -. -00 

t^<C> CD 



■^CO-^i— It— CSn'OOW^ 
t~- »0 . O . »0 CO 00 CO 



cDOSt-cDCOcDOOMCO 
CC I- . ^ .« 1-1 CD OS 



OsC^COcDt— OscDOC^ 
ceo .00 -r-li-Ht-Os 
^ CO (N 1-1 OS 



00t-iO00cD-<J*00t— CD 
O lO . !N . CO W o r^ 
CDCD^ (TOOS 1-ii-H 



COiOOSiOcOiO-^GO 

-- cs . CD . r~ 

1-1 COfM rH CD 



OOCS .CD . CJ 1-1 t- -^ 



ooosoot-co<Neocot— ^r-cOi-icscDO'*?^, 

OC CO ■^ . iO .CD . CD C^ CD • r— . ■^ -n* TP ( 

COOOOOS O OO-^ O CO O lO '^ O i-i( 

lO OS O 00 Tji ,-( -Tfi 

<Mi-( ^ c^ 



1— iC^t-t-C>^cOOOCOOOOSCOiOOscO-rcDrr 
C^OGO ' t— .to .lOiOCO .(N ,COOSi-hCS 
i-IOOt-^CDOOOCOcDCDOOiOt-i-lOSOOrHi-l 

_ .. ^-^51 - -to "--co -rH -.-. 

OS T-< CD to i-H 00 O -f CO ■^ -^ 
O CO t- 1—1 OS CO t— to to 






o 3 



3&HPo^p=^PH;2;PHt3pHOrt ci 

o >-. 



3 o 
II 



o ® <«"• 

> " m y 

O !" ^ £ 

^H 3 C3 t- 

fl c 



i-»--<OSr-«OOSCCOOOSeOCOi— I't'OS 
cot-* .CXCD .Of-l . ~r^'-j:> .^1-1 
CO O O C 1 O CD (M M OS C^ CD (M CD 

- -r-t - -.1-1 -, -, ^00 -v 

O 1-1 CD 1-1 C^ CO C-l C-J 



iMCOcD-^O^OsCNOOCO'^OJi— ((M 



■^i-HtOCDiOt— O-^iOi— lOTfi-^cO 
C^tr-l .^'n* ,^CO ,CDO .fOi-l 
OSCSM'OcOOOOOi— leOOS'^OOO 

CDCO OSi-l Oi-I WCO »Oi-l 



t-r-cDOS'^COOst— tOtOOOO 

^ to .000 . 'T^ to . O r-l .t-H 

cDOOi— i*ro0^i-»"^'^cD00i-'O0 

- -C<» - -.CI -,1-1-. *.cO * 

O0i-l OOi-l CO rjiC^ C-1 



OSCDtOtOIXMClCOt— t— I^cDOt- 
OOS .OCO .003 .OOtO .C-ICO 
■^TTM-CO'^COCM t-OCOi— 'CO 



-CNtOi-iOCscDT-HOOr-tOO-^T 

hci .1— (to .coos .t--co .t— C 

S-^TTt-CO^NO OO^OOOS 

- 1-1 - 1-1 *. -s -.t— 

1 C^ 1-t i-(i-l 



CO-^lOC^OCOCOrH-^JIOSOOOSi-* 
CO CD . 1—1 CO . O T-l ,00 01 . lO CO 
I>'^(MOSrHONeOWOii-lCD05CS| 

t-Ht-H Oi-H Ttl lOlO "* 



lOcD-^n-cOr— OcDOsOscOtOr-HtO 

r* o .1— i<M .tot— .-^"^ .toos 

CDCO-^OSOS'— I'^COOOSO'-'-^to 
OS .-I t— CO tP CO 05 



Oi-«cDtooor*osr-Oco'MOr-to 

O 1-1 . O 01 . CJ OS . CO to . c-i Ol 

■^"^t^OCOcDcD COCl'^toCOr-i 

---.-, -CD - 

to -^ i-< 05 1— I T-( 



CDi-1-^cDOOOCOGOcDOtOi— ICDOS 
0(M .OC^H .CO'^ .to CM .O-— I 
,— (»OOS"^OtOtOOtOC^OtO>OtO 
^ _^ _ ^r-i .s -rH - -CD - - 
00 CO COIM CD tH OSCO ^t^ tH 



rHt—OOSClt— COOS'^OOO'-'i— lOS 

- -CS ' -< -^ -^i— < *- -CD - -. 

• O OS CO O 1— I 1— ( to to Ol CI 

00 00 C3 00 to OS ox to -n^ Ol 



^ o 

|i 

^2 



0) 
M 

S3 3 g 



. «■ 



0° 



0-53^ ?^^5 



o o C 
J o 



! a; 4j r-( <p 
c3 £^ d c3 



:>CD 



>6 = 






d £ d3 ti 
'■S ? S d S 

P-iCOrHp-O 



2l 

8Sg.fc 

J> OJ > O) 



d E d ' 



r-lr-n-lr-lrHr-lrHi-(.-li-((N<M(MC^C-)(M<MC<<IN(NCOC«3COM«C<5«lCOM 



STATISTICS, 



37 



.LOCO ,00 . .CO'^GC'^i-l. 



. .-( O I- CO O '-H 



iO(Nco>*Oi'— lOCiooi-Hooioc^coi— tocc r*iOGOcococit^y:io»cocooco 



J r^ lo . >o o . oi 



lO QO CN W O rO 



CO -- "<J*?OCCCCCS -« 

■* o s© e^ €© ©& c-i 



OOO!;D0iC0C^C>0«3"^^(N00I>- 



t^ C I o , <o «o 



CO i-H CO 03 r-l 



1-H OOODO'^iCOI'^fM^OcO'^OcO 
CO . CC 00 IC Ci CO . O ^ O iX »-< »0 iO 

iC 00 1-- . . 00 . . c: c^ l>- 
lO --. t^-*cci^(ro -.-. 



r-HOOi-tiOcOt^COI^i-llO 
.O . .OCMO>i-H,-H .1-1 
Tt^i-HO-*.-! CO--* CO 



- - lO CC CO Th (M ,s€© 
lO CO «fe «^ €© €© CO 



r^c-i'«t*rH!M-^-^r^i:Nooco^HCicoiO'-(0 cocOT-Hcot^Oit-rpcoocC'^cD': 



lO CC C-1 . CO CO 



1 ^ CI Oi r- c» 



■< O CO T-H LO CO 



coco €^e© e^oeco 



T-HCOOOOsOC-lcOCOOOi-HCOO^'M 
COOCO .coco .^ . .(NCOCiCO 



c-1 '<t -M CO r- o (M CI t"- o r-. CO o o 
. --H CO CI t/j i^ . lO -n- L-^ CO o o 

'* o c>o . .^ . -coco CO i-f 

i-t -.^ coc^ioco<M -efe 

"^ CO €©^ e^€^co 



Ir^C-liOt^COfNi-HOiOiO-f.— (C-lLOi-HOOl r-r^iOCOOOO-fi-HOOlOOO 



.coco . Oi . .c/;cocoai(M 



. r-l I-- O O l-H O O 
. ^ CT) O CC 



H ^ -s '* CO t' CO cs -e^ 
^ CO c^ t^ €^ e^ 1-t 



C<lt*iOCSJOCOCOI^'^C<l'r*4^-:t«rHCOf-<0 iC'^Ol^iOCOC^ CO Oi O CO CO i-< O 



.coco .O 



. t^ -^ CO C-J C^ • r-i 



• 1-Hr- . CO c^ u^ t-i -r CO 



CO »-l 



CO CO QO lO CO 



. Wi-H 10.-H 



or CO «>€^ «©9&Ci-< 



coiccoi— icDco.-H-rf^coiC'tt'o^r^coiot^oo io»cooi-t^Oi-Hi-iocr. cioic 

C^lT'C/D .lOcO .O . .C0"^CO-i< . •C.'iOOt--'^ .-^OJOOC iiOOl 

— ^ -^ ' ■ — ■ -^ COCO"*^..<M..(N"^ COCO 



tH (N _.. .. 



lO lo €^ se^ €^ «= oi 



CDCOCOC^OcOOC5COOOCOGO'J^'-icO(MCO O-^fMh-Or-HN'^COOfM'Ti-tr^ 



1:0 lO .— ' . to "^ .0 



. CI '^ o ».o CO 



. O CO 10 -* C-1 



. r-H CO »0 CO OJ I^ O 



CO -T r- lO CO 



€^€Or— 1-H c^ 



':«COOOOiC^-«COcOC/DOSOO i-HCTiCOiOcOf-. ^■^-^f'^'OcO^O 



CO.— tCOCOO COC-lf-i-^CO OCSOi 



»0 O €^«^ 



i CO -^ C t 

to ee 




OJ 



T3 cj 



So 



:52 

^r s ^ ^ ^ 

■a S m c„J3 
-3-2 t>>>,s; 



1) 



■o 






x:.; 



Jl i-O-ti ■ -— 

jj Q) o) c3^ o c3<-i 000 

t' 3 ^ ^ _ _ „ 



4) to 

225|22 2| 

o o ',_ ^ to "p; ^ — * 
e. p. S.-s c; ^ o o 

.■35°ftP<^^2 

,2 « n -2 

5^9 



: g S ; • g : 



« ? g.^.^ ^ w 



3"° 3 2 • 

•-. ►> P O ^ (0 
tn t^ tfi X c b£ 

S o.s; ^ " =3 

O C g— " >> 

■h (C '^ "CI -ct o 

n o o u- -PM *^ 



X X 0^ D ^ '.. ^ .- — r' ^ »-^ <- 
OaO^HIMM'^iOtDt^00010^-<C^1CO"^».'5tO t^crOiO-^fMCO-^lCtOt^QOO^O^^fN 



38 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS, 



o -^ 

O a 



^ 



^ 



go 



bo 



1^ 



ftia 



^8 



s o 

.'^•'-1 



B>- 



Oo 



ic M* i-H "^ lO o »o 



ocot^ooooiMai'^ 

T-H i-H 05 . . CO . 

1-H t^COI>- OOi-H 



O "^ to • ^ • t^ . 

CO iM 'V CO O O '^ 

-, ^ -tM -00 

CO CO (N CO 



'-HiOCO • 

OiOO o 



COi-Ht-H . 






CQQcOOOCOi-Ht^t^ 
COOiO . . t^ . 



TT O-^ ••-» * CO . 

O CO ■^ "^ O lO ■f 
*. -, -OS 

OiOO 00 



C0r-(CS<-HW3i-Hi— tCO 

CO CO O . . CO . 

t- CO Tt< '^ O CO lO 



i Tti O Oi t>- i-H CO t^ 
■<<MC^ . .O . 

■^ 1-H C0»O O rH CO 



"<J*(M.-HOiOiOOOC^ 
CO CO »-< . lO . CO . 
.-t -Vt^I^. 0(Ni-l 
__^ -. -OS 

OCT* Ol 



rHiOCO»OCOi-HThC^ 
CD O »0 .1—1 .CO . 



C3 ® 



-^ .<NC<|C 

_ <NO 



<NOC0(Mrt»t-tcOO00 
•^^ .CO .lOCOOI^ 
CD lO CO 'f 00 1-t T-t 



OOcO'^'^CO'^I^t^cO 
rH O . C^ .'^CSuoOi 
Oi W i-H CO t> 



b l>- T-H O 1-H CD O CN 



CD rp . t^ .C0C0iO«0 
>f3 lO -^COtH 



-HOi-Hi-HOO-^Ot^QO 
■^ lO .CO -COCSOOiO 



co"^ioc<it^iooicqo 

CDi-H .'^ .COC^IOiC^ 
t^COOOCOOS rH 



■^05'^OI^CT>'^I>-C0 
-^(M .CO .C^01iOI>- 



coco . cr> ."*c<00Tr 



» CO »0 »0 O (M 03 '^ 



coco (M cot* 



.lO CO Oi I>- 






O c3 



2oS 



(N»r5CDCDCOOOO»CiC0050«DCO 
I-, ■-fi . ,_( c^l . i-H CI .'*'>—• « CJ Oi 
"^'^C^C^'— ii-HO'^OCDO'-HUO'^ 

.-H.-* Oi-H "<r lO'<»' CO 



c^fHC^cqiO'Tj'Csi.-HCJioiOTr' 



LO lou:) <M-* - 



, r- Oi . to »o 



-co TP CO CO I— 1 



CO i-H 



eot^cooi— lOO'^c^cofesos-rrr^c-i 

"^C^ .OCl .GO^ .TTCO .CT>Ol 
■^"^OcDOOQiOCOO'VOsr^CO'O 

co^i-T i-Tt-T "^ co'*<i^ '^'^ 



)i-tOcD<NO*0C>C0'*'^O'— ICO 
3 C^ . to I— * . t^ (M . 05 <— ( ,Oi-H 



OCD05asO00lMOCDI>*OC^O 
fCO .CSCO .-^OS .OOCM .CI 



"<t< »0 O 00 -^ 1— I » 



if^-^ocot^cocoovor^cocooiOi 

OOCD .coco .CIO .(MCO .0>CO 
OOiO'^t^tO'^CO'— lf-Ol-^"»J<CO 



T~iQi . r^ .-H ,40 .<OcD . CO o 
C^Ol>'COOt^'-<C^O>rHCO^<N.-H 



t^i-HTt<00CO00'*r*<N«OTt<-^0CCO 
Oi CO . O -^ .I>-cO ,00 . Oi o 
CDOtO'^OS'^COCM'-liOiOi-lCOr-l 



CDQCOC003005COOO(M'-H0r^^ 

00-^ . »o CD . »o CO .coo . oo >— < 

OOOO'-HCDt^.-HCI'— lOOOCO-— I,— 1^ 



00005'^»-lOt^OSOO»OOcOOi'-i 

lOr- .1"--^ .'-Hco .coco ,>— !.-< 

OClCO'^OOCO'^'-Hl>.tOCO»OCN|T-H 

^ T-i ^ T-i ^ - -CD - 

O CO w cocs c^^ 



C^iOCii-tCatxt^C 

■n^ CO . CO CO . CI c 
WcO'-HtMOJOiOSC 

i-Tt-T cT co" 



• r^Oi-HOi-H 

.CO CI .ClOl 

• lO Oi O CO C^ 



go 
" o 



I.-S&2 



° 03 rt o O I 

"2 o o,«4h , 

2 C! cS >H U,^ 
CD © QJ O' I 



M-S 3h 



5t^ £ t- 

Q <C O 03 

OPmPmPh 



.S O 03 C3 

03 fet; 3 



■2 fe a "1^ 



g o o o O o I 

s 03 03 s g 

■g o o 3 ® 
02 Ph PM iz; Ph f 






a«- 



... .■^ 



o 2 ® ^ 

3 fl o a . 



iSpH.iiSPH'BSPH' 






' 1-h' » ® 

■ o « o.s 
a> 03 fl ^"d 

•33-1: 3 s 



»-(C^C0'^iOC0i>-000>O^H(M00-^iCOt^00aiOi-l(MCC**0Ot^00ClO»-*ClcC'^»0«Dt^00 
rH^i-<.-lrHr-l.-Hi-ti-Hf-(CNC^Cv»C^MC^W(NC^C^COCO0OCCC^COCO0O0O 



STATISTICS. 



39 



COt^OO .COr^ .O . .CO*^'-«t-» .«-H .1— "t--.(M,— ICO .OOi-HiOCO.— ICM»0 

lO'-HCOCO iO<— «OOCC to CI fcC COOCD .."^,.01-^ Oi— ( 



»o»oOi-»oooi»oa>coiocoQO*o»-4 

■^ 00 O . lO ■*«* .o . .COCCt^'ff* 



.COt-OSOf-H . !£> GO O O "^ C 

1-4 GO C^ . . CI , . (M CO CJ 

c<i --, '^coaicoiM ».64 



iO'-^OcDOOCOCO'«**iOr^'MOOt>-00 

c^ lo r* . lO O .CO . . o "^ '-4 O 



COt^t^CJ^HCOOi'^OGOOC^OOcD 
.OCOIXNO . CS ^lO Oi COOcD 

coo «^e^ e^e^cD c^ 



roscoOi-icooOO' 

5 eO . O . . CD ''T t^ • 

O >— I -^ O GO ' 



CO CDI>'-'OC1Ot-ii0C0OC-1 
.-I .OaClOOC/^ .00 00 



^ CJCOf-H 



-. CO (M 05 (M M -nS 



OlOCOOiiMiOOtOiOCD 

.o . .coco r^o 

,-,,_(iO'-H CO— ' lO 



^^O'-HCOi-HOiOOOiCflOO 

(MCIO'Tj^iO .0<M00 OO 
CO 00 -— 1 . .00 . .r-iO <M CD 



cOOcOcO'-HCDOiOCOOi(M'^l>r-'*»OCl C0^C^"^05t>-i-iC3t^OI^»0OC<l 



OOCDOI .CDCO 
0000 ^ 



iCi— ( — < iO 



.C^OiCscOCl .01050CD 1— (CD 



■^^co«ot^^HOcooooooooii^r^coi-Hco ooi— <t^r»oocOi— tooOM<Oi-^co 



CDOCD .OCO .*-* 



"COC^rH .,-( 



.t^cDCD'^O .cD'^Oii-H t-<:0 



Oico e^e© 



. _ _ , .coco 

io 751 00 :* £2 -^^ 



»OC0C1»OCD00C0O5iO0i'^CDcD-^tDi— lO> CDaO"*<MCOI>-COa?i-HOiO'^C 



«-* »0 CD • lO »0 



O r-H r- ( CO 



i-H CD »0 Oi 



. Oi O t-^ Tt* OO .t^rJ^C 



iQc^co^co, 



COCDOCDOO'-HCOOO'^C^CO' 



■rHlOlOOi— Ir- iTflOCO 
.CDcOIr^CO'* . CI Oi 



^ -..» '^COOO't^C-I 



-^ 1— I - 



e^e^ €^€©1—1 



*Tj*r-tOOcOt^Oi— lt^OlO5»O00lOC0CD 



CD Oi I^- . -^ CD 



. lO CO CO -^ CJ . .— I 



■<0i(N0iOl^t^»0"*OC?C^OC 



lOOlOirHO . t^ ■*!< O O '' 

oicoci' 



Ci Ol €^e^ 



1—1 . . 1— I rt* -^ C^ 



OiCOCOOOCOcOOO'^CO'^OCOOsOiOiOiO 
ClCOOi .»OCD .Oi . .Oi"^COCD .»0 



i-HOtoO'^^-'^t^'— ior*r*cDoo 

.O— )t--(MOi .OOt^-^t^ OC^ 
r-ICDt- ..i-l.,CO>0 OOi-l 

CD -.* 'TClOiCOC^ -v^ 

CDi-H ©&e^ €4©aco 



Co 
"c3 g 

'1^ 






Si; O o 

tt— e ^ fe 



(B-«o'-'-2c'-'-''-''-!ai 



^ S «3 



eg o*^ 
i " S2 

. ^^ tj:'o 

, -- o^ he's 
"« "^ ^ !^ S3 

) ti oj C d; •- !a 

! P rt u- c3 t- ^, 
) K* o) C; a> OJ *-* 



O o S 



3 o 



cc'o 



'5 F— ■ o 



:ap.£ 



&-!<; 



^ .■§.■§ 2 ft a,^'^® 
c^'S'S c a o S,S 

0; C cu O O oj C3.Q. 



=as2^i 

i a Q-" >^ 

-t oj "^ '^ Id o 
^ tUj c3 i^ ^ c-> 

3 aj o I-. H 






40 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAISr MOUNTAIlSrS. 






CO 



q 
S' a 
So 
CO 






CtjO 



oo a> 



r^ o lo . lo . fM . 

rji {M(N 1-H O 00 O 



00 00* 



COt-^cD C5 CO 



-^Oi i-H 

T- O 

COCO 



Oi lO TT 00 -^ 



O . 
00 O 



CO lO r-< . Tt* . »0 . 

05 00 1— I O OcCOO 



■^ 1^ CD . (N . C^ • 
iO(NC^i-< OC^ OO 



or"-.i-toot^»oot--or^cCieotNcor-c 

O lO .1-^ . tO -^ CD Ol lO . CO C~ 



lO CO (N -^ 00 



. . , _ - , -/j , O >0 . ■* CN 

CD05'-Hi-H'^OC^C0Tl<000i'*CCC0i-l 
— ^CC -- --(N -- f-H -s -GO *■ 



ioc»0'«tor^Ma>ooot^cocDC^*-Hr^(NcocMOir-ic*:tT-ic<iO'-< 



Tt< o ccco -^ 



..._ .^. ^ c^i-H .0000 .coo 

C^ 00 Ol Ol lO CO 00 "^ CO -^ Ol CD CO O »0 i-H 



eoot^a)Oo>-^W'^oDoooccio(NGO'*cDt^i>'i>-'^POco^i-ij{5^oo 



CSI CS -OS . 05 CO t-- 1-* 05 

CD 1-H CO CO -^ 



oocOf-Hiocsi— iu:>csoot--iNioco^ 

(NCO <MCO ■* 



lOf-H 01 00 



^'^^cs^c^-^ou:i'*cocO"^csl«DcolOTH050^-(^3»-HOOlco 



C^C^CiO C^"^ 



O .cDCScO'-iCOOr-O .00 1-- 



i-IC0I>-OCv)^O<NC0'-ic0C0C^C 



. r* Gi . CO *-i rH O 



^ ^(M -. ^C 



^ ^ ^ ^cO - 



'*OCOCOt>-CO<NOcD'*i-tair-iOo7i(NiOcDt-Tj<-rt4^0CT-< 



CO 1-i 1-- (M '^ 



.iO(Nl>-t^O .oo .oo - .- - -. ,_ - 

1-t 00t0O^00»OC<l00C0(NO00i-<O— I 



Ci -, -^ .V -,^H -. »H .. -co 
CO --H CO 1-1 "' " " 



ococ<»ooi-icoO"^t^ot^"^or^oooiocor*c^Oc/)io-^'^'^ocooo 

rv-iCM -r-^ - O^ Tj* tr~ t>. Oi .0"-C0 .lOcO .<M00 .OCl .t^CN CICv] . 

i-H ■^looO'^c^i-'^ooioc^i— ir-'-HcOi-H -^cico 

05 - -vC^ -V --C^ ^ Ti ^ .00 ". ". 

t-H W 1-M (N "^ r-io "5 CD 



l^ CD t- -rf lO 



COC^C<»COCOiOirj-^C<IOOcDOOT-iT-HCO(NOOt-lMC^lTt<CD<NCN 
coco .1-1 . OS CO 00 CO 00 . (N CO . Oi O .1^-Oi . (M C: . CO t-H 
CT>i-<CO"*t*'^ CS 1— iT-Hl^OCOit^OOcOCDC^IrH'^r-i!}* 

-^ -lO Ol -N ^1-H *. -^»H - 1-1 -. -.CD -- 



Oc0C0C0'^OT-H'^c0i:^'<^'Dt^.-<i-^r^0:C^O.-H'#OcyDOO-*'M<M00 



.00 -oi^^r^cooo .coo . .-' 



»0 CO CO -^ lO 



, _00-^^I>-COCDCO-^GOI-*COCO 
CD -. .kC^ -. .^C^ -V T-i -. -00 - 



I -co CI "O 



r-H C^ ^ (N 



CO lO lO 



■<*'o;c<iioaiu^Ci'^oococoi>-osoocO'^coi"--^t-^cocooooor-oc-i'*'— <coi-(»-ii>-(>loooiO 



'!t*cDOOCOMi^aiai(M(McOO'-i'^ 
- -. ^00 .- ^ j-t- 



.OCOOO .'O .CO»-<OM'CO .COI- 



-tH . CO CO . O CO 
'GO'^fN^CDOOcr-"-* 



. w-t CO rH 



t^r-ocoioiooco»otMiOi-i-^o 
■^c>ici .^ .-r -O'^o .00 - 
Tf»OOiO'^i-HCDOCOi-HCOiOCO^ 



O-^O .00 .CDC<l»0-^iO .1^ 



OicO'«J^*OOSOOOOClcOCOO'^T^OOt~-iO«-H 
-"»0-^iO .l---^ .lOOO -OCi .C5CO .l-C-5 

T-HCO OOOi-tOi-t-^OC^OJ'^ClC^'Mt--'^ 



00 .N -CM -- - - 
Oi -^ t^ CO ^ 



1-1 . -co - 



^cO■^COt--■^■*C^CO:OCq•— tOl--iO'^iC-^0'^C<:''-^i--l--0'^cDt^<:r;cOcOi-4C^t~--OiNrH 

■-- - — — —^ •- -— ).— lOi ."^-:r -CSOi .COiO .oo .1— i»COi00iO . 

«<N(McDOCM00l^O"*i-lOt^0C'iOi0CCi-l0500C0 



< O i-i I-" — ^ -^ ■ 



.00 . iO ■-< 05 --• Ci 



- C75 CO 1— < lO Ol »0 



cc »o -rr CO 



■^3i _ - rvi-t , 



»0 CO C^l ''J* 



(MOO (McD CicO »0»0 -— i-P 



t^ <N •■**»-* lO 



CO CO LO Cft 



'* lO tH 1-1 



,S o 

C4 



'rJ C C d y^. d 






>, ^ ^i S " 

o m c! m';:^ 
^ t. a— ^ 

oj S^ -3 



■-i__'(N 



<ii 03 o! g g ; 
loo^-Sl 

C^ Ci a Qj Qj^ 

O t>-< ?*i o o 
^ f--, r-1 C3 c3 

>.§ r^ ^ £ 

^CDCO o O 



o3 to 



t="s «■' 



O O ^ "^ O (^ 



«'Z, 



o o O 3 o 






2 =" a 



i C g c: o 
j o S ^ •■ 

tip 






o C o PI 
o ® o— . 

o5 '=^ a 

ti ® 2s a 

S c: s^ ^ ^ 
g| » > o 

"o P.O P-S 
(-).t^ ^ T-l ^-^ 
g o o^ o 

O -^ t- 5 » 

c;z;PhPhPh 



.-lC<^CO■^>OcD^-OOOiC•-^C^CO*^^OcD^^OOOlOr-^C^COTf1lOcOI>■CC(:Tl01-^(NCO■^»00^>•CO 
..w* ^^^^^^;i:^^^^;^^^^cs,cs)C^<M<M(NC^<NC^<MCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO 



STATISTICS. 



41 

















-<< 






-*ti -^^ C3) 


CO 




tr~<7>t~- 


o 


,_^ 


COC)M-CD050cOOOO 


.CO 


l« 


, 




















CD »0 1M »0 




.Ot^I>-CDl^ .O0r-<0(N 


















" 




CO 




O -T-CTi . .CO . .OlO 

T-i .. ►. CD »o i^ ^ Tf .e© 

(M lO Ubtfy «© «© O 
O I— 1 CO 


I d 




















^ 








OO 05C0 CO 


OOOJC<5CO-toncO(MW 




ClCNGOi-HCOCO^HOiiOr^OOlMCOcO 


• o c< 




(MO CO .»OCO .-^ . .00»O«:>(N 




.CCnt^^O .1-HCOOOMOJlM 


• -^ CO 




t^<o w 


o.-<coc« coco 




(M CO CO . . C-) . . O ^ O 






^ 00 »o -t^ 




-, -, r^ »o OO CD ^ ^c^ 


'• CJ 




cTn" 


n 




■*g3 s>^» «se©o 








e© 




H^ ei 




















lO 




TJIOOOCO 




iC-hOCOCOC^IcDj-hOcdiOcOOOO 


jo 


















o 




^ -^ CO lO 




























•" °1S 




'"'cOOCO ""^ .id . .CDIM 
























00 


























M 




s§^ s 
























«© 










T-CrHOOt^ 


sg^g'^'^ggss 




ooo:jiocoi-tioo^i-iot>-ooo 


• o 






Oi :D»-H . »0 




.-Irtt-COi-H .coooo 








50 o r^ 


»0 T-4 .^ CO CO c^ 




rH iO . .CD . . O CO 

^ .^ cou^t^cDco -e^ 








., - lO 


CO r^'J' -«© 












00 




^00 mm t^tf)<Z> 
C'^T-< c^ 








C*^ CO 


O— 1 


Imo.-ico-h-hoooo 




.-HCOOCO^OW-*<-fCOOiO 


CO 


jo 








.iO 


. . -H . . CD m o uo 




.OH-HCOt^cD .OCIOX) 


CO 












.^ tM CD IC lO C^I 




T-H .-1 CO . . "O . .0 0) 












s 


• •* lO •* .«© 




.^ ^ lo *r oo -^ CO -«s^ 


















CO »0 €^^ ^?60CD 






















I^ 




IMCOOO-H 




OOOCOOCOCOt^l-lOt^OOOOCO 


jo 






















OlOlot^ 




rH .COOt^CJO .t^OOOO.-<COrt 




















l~^ 




cs 




9 

$36,1 
$28,2 

$6. 
$5. 

76 

s-1. 

$3. 

$38,0 

$4 

1 
























€© 










i-< O --^ 00 !M 


.-icOiM'l'-^'Ot^OO 




iOCOO(Mi— <iocoa3i0i000<:0005 


• c^ r~ 




O Olr-^ - IC 


05 . C-1 . . ^ Tj^ i-H 00 




. CO T-( 00 T-H 00 . «D Cl O CD tH to 


•CI CI 




Soo M 


lO ^ -*• CO .-1 C-l <M 




-^coos . .1—1 . .I^-IO 1-t 






_ ^ U5 


CO CD ^ -^ 




^ .. t-- -f c*:' »o CO *€fi» 


'' d 




(NCS 


IN 




Cr: r-H <^m ©a S^ (M 

^18 _ ^ 






W OlCO^^i-l 


UO<MCOOJt--COO(MO 




CT O O CO r~ CO CI 00 Cl-O CO o O O 


• o 






O O CO .50 


lO .O . .0>"5COGO 




.COt^CO"0CO .COOiOCD 








lO -l" -H 


i-H ^H c-l (N O C^l 




t>OCO . . ^ . .OCl 








- - o 


lO CD »0 -«^ 




., ., >I0 -^ CO ^ CO -i^ 








coco 


CO 




CO 1— ' CI 










e^ 










O— 1 O-^OJ 


C-JOr-lt^CDCJ^rtlO 




OcOOlOCDcDCOClrtT-liOCDlOlOCO 


'•o> lo 




OCT. rt . 


. . rp . . (N -^ t-- r^ 




.OCOdCOO .000^0 .-H CO 


.-H 00 




CO-H ■-HIO'J" 






T-H CI O . . CI . . >0 CI CO 


•CI 




^ -, ;o;o 


t^ "ii C3 CD -.«© 




.,., — lO5-J'<J2C0 -- 


CI 




coco 






coco CIS© «e9%CO-* 

o CI s© (33 e<j 






iO IC Ot-H t-- 


oo 






.rj< T^ (M lO 




lOCOCOCOCl-l-OrfcOClOTt-OCl-t 


!co CO 




o^ o .^ 


lO . 






r-.lOCD<M 




.^^t^lOCOCD .C10"<J^COi-H^O 






OJOIIM t^ 


g 






1-1 oco 




"^Ot-i . .»o . .oco O --H 






_ - ■© 






-s^ 




.. .- r- '^co CD CO -s© ., 


• d 




-*co 








I^ 

^ 










O t^c^-Hir 


— -H 






o -^ o ^^ 




OO^OCOtC— ioOWTl<OC<100iOCO^ 


: M< o 




-CD I^ GO . "■ 


•o . 






CD ^ coa> 




O •CiOO-'^'-HCl .00-**i-HlOT-ICOt-- 


■ t-- Oi 




lO t^ t^ »o 


CD 










COlOCOt-- . ,7-1 . .COCDI>0 


•00 






CO 






■"1, """-CD 




.- .^ ^ r^ CD CO ■* -0^ .s ., 


• - o 




co'io't^r 








-< lOO 




coo t-» ?^ €^S^»0 i-» CO 


• CD 




t^ -P IM 








— 1 CI CO 




-r lO e© o CI 






IN(N 








co" 




>0 -Cf ,-C r-l 


i 














; o 




t3 








































CO 
















'■3 




T3 
























•S 
















o 
















:cD 




a 












y. 












s 
































■ a 




~^ 








_,' 


-M 










"cS 
















^ 
















; o 




a 








tX) 


C3 










cfl 
















"3 












a 




■ p. 


a 










.a 

.3 

C8 


i 










2 

1 


bj 
cs 


) 
















o 
o 

8 

o 








1 

o 
o 

a 

>> 


o 

; '^ 

Jo 
.o 
■ o 

'• C3 

• <c 

i.S 

• >>£ 


® OT 
C3 <u 

JSo 

2o 

©CO 

S2 








th normal school ti 
-grade certificates. 
Iding third-grade ci 


2 

a. 


■J" 

a 






o 

CO 


t 


) 


c 


1 


^1 


o 

I 

> 

a 

2 




a 

c. 

1 






'3 

M 
s 


d 

t tending dai: 
session, in d: 
f days each c 
f days each c 

f ton f hers 


1 


imual salary 
vith normal 
f teachers \vi 
lolding third 
f teachers ho 
ol expenditu 
^ceived from 
eceived from 
ire per child 
ire per child 
f total expeni 
■r child enrol 
■r child enrol 
ihool buildin 
alue of schoo 
fschoollibra 
f volumes in 


% libraries us 
it in high sch 
n high schoo 

1 re: n f !1<TP 


■i 




verage a 
W^ite 
Colore 

umber a 


Colore 
umber a 
ength of 
umber o 
umber o 
umber 
nrollmer 
eachers' 
verago ai 
eachers \ 
er cent o 
eachers 1 
er cent o 
otal scho 
mount r( 
er cent n 
xpenditi 
xpendiii 
er cent o 
uition pt 
uitiou pc 
alue of SI 
verage v 
umber o 
umber o 


irculatiii] 
nrollmer 
nroUed i 
to 20 ycr 




-=', ^ 


;z; ^ ;? Iz; Iz; H H <; s- Ph e Pi H < ?i K a P^H E- e X !z; Z < 


owa 




CI O w C~l c 


^•^'li^CDr^COOO-HC^lCOM^UOCDt^COOO^HC^CO-'J^lCCOr^OOO 


30 .-< CI 






5-1 


1* ^ 




l" -^ 


(1 -*■' 


r X 


f T 


f r 


f -a 


'"■ 


sir 


i>nu 


1U 


oir 


sir 




5ir 


3ir 


sec 


3c: 


■-coc: 


cc 


jc: 


>!£ 


CC 


>CC 


CC 


5 t~l> 


t^ 


1 



42 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



o a 



k 8 
"^ .9 



^ 



at- 



it 



k;]0 






l§ 



-is 



1-H t- -^ t-t 1-H .COOO 
O 00 . ■ *^ • 

<M<N O ■ <N^ 



'»*< 00 "^ '<J' lO 

»oo*o . 

CD »0 O 
COCO 



COCOI>.<M(M 

(M O T-l . 

CD«5 O 

ocT 



t^"^ CO - 

cccc 



»OGO 
Til 00 



CO Ci -^ . -^ . o . 

lO CI (>) tM O C-l O 



i-^-^cooor^r- icocD 

CO OCD . (M . Oi . 
O 05 i-H O O t ■- CO 



(NOl>.CO^HiO<MCO 

I^ i-H lO .05 .CO . 
OOtNCOCOCN'-'-^'M 
^ ^ -05 

050 00 



i-).-(i-Hi~^-*t*»oOicc>ioc5i-i'MOi— ii^i>.i-ii-Hiooo'<?«r*cqt^ 



OJ 00 . (M . CO t-H 00 lO CO 
(M CO CI (M CO 



• COO . »o o 



1— I •* Cs 1-H CO Oi --H CO O CO "^ C:> CO CO CO 



'TfOlNC^r-i— lCDc0i005t^I>"<?*O00-^"n'C^C0TrO'<**0i'^OC^O-' 



5 CO »0 CO CO 



. 00 (M CO O t^ 



• cow . CO lO . M" 1— j »o o 



C/:0'— l-^Oii— 'COCOUO'^CO'— It^i-H 
OS - -.Ol - *^CS ^ T-l -. *.!>• - 
05C1 OOC^ CO lO"^ -v 



COrHOiOO'^O'^i-l'^Olt-^COOO'rJ'COt^cD'rriOC^COCiCO 
(N<M .lO •COCOCD'^CO .lOOS .-^00 ."Qtji .CO»0 .W3 
CO CO 05 CO »0 r-i CO 00 -^ 1— I 00 tf 1-4 00 C^l 00 CS ^ CO ^ 



CO^ CO.-I 



■^ CO CO 



COCOi-HCOOSCOC^TPi-t'^i— liO!MOO'^»-HiCCOCOi-HOCV|Tf«CSO 



OS CO -^ coo 



.lococo-— no 



. -,_ - ,-, .OO .l>.OS .iO"-J< 
OOr*0'^c005'^COU3'-*OCO»OCO 
OS -. -.CO - -.CO - W ^ -vl> -. 
>0(N »0'-l C^ COC^ CM 



I— tO0S0SC0C0t^'M(M^^rHC005I>.C0»OCMC00SC0C^l00i'*i-H 

coco .OS . ■**< T-H 00 •— I -^ . CO CN • -r lo . (N io . i— i -h .loco 
lOcot^'-H-Tji CM cou^oioocO'-'OOiocMOcooot^r* 

osi-H CO--I cot-h cm cocm cm 



t^COCOCMCOOOCOiOOSfOO'M'OOCOCDOlCMCMOCOCMOSOCMTHOCMOS 



COiO .(M .05C0t>O0S .-^CM .OSQO .t^<X . . 

OCOr^-^-^ C-1 t^COCOOSCO»OQCCMiO>-HiOOC 

► ^-rjt OS ^ ^^ ^ ^^ -. ^ ^ -l 

o>— I coc»cocM»o r-xi 



. O -^ »0 OS 



CMOO»OI:^OsOCOt>-OdCOiCcOO^COiOt^CMT-lCMCOOcOOT-«>OOOOS 

i^co .'^ .oscot>-oos .CMOS .cor^ -t^f-i -ocm -lor^ ost-4 . 

CO CO -^ -^ Tfi CM CO t-^ OS -"^r OS GO Ml O CO CO Tf CM •<*" O 1— t CO CO UO 



C0Oa500O'TPi0'^'^CM0ai>C0C^'<J*OP0 00O0s0SCM00C0O*O00 0Si0l>-Tf00 00c0C0»OCSOS 



3COO0 .lO .OOCOOSt 



__ _. .OOCO .I— ICM .o»o .io»o .OtT CMr-- 
rH OSO '-(O CM OSO t^COi-ICOCM -^ OCM CO ^O ■" 



T-H CI t^ lO O 



C5iOI^C0'^'^'*O> 
CO CO -^ "CO .OS • 
TjH '^ O O C) 00 



rr CI CI CI 1—1 

COi-H CM . 

WI-- o 



*-> 

03 
Pi 

-2"c3 



PI'S "-5 

3fi fe2"S 

^ '^'^ fe -2 - • 
" ? "3 <D « ri" : 

:j'3 o.;J o cS 53 
D o ® ^ © *-< 3 



*-4OOC0OC00SCMC0C0C000r^ClC1— ^IOCOCOCO>0»OCO»OOCMOIOI>- 



r-.cO'-HCOco 



.lOCMt-^-^iO .000 .OsO 



OOOOOOCOt^OOcOOOCOCOOOO" 



. CqiO lOCi 



CO— I co^ 



-CM - i-H - 



CIClClCOCMCMCOOSiOcOcO^O'-HCOcOi-Ht^.OOcOOcOOOcO 
COf .CO .COCMt^-OOt^ .CMt' .CtCl .I^TT' .-^riO .lO 
■^OS^OCICO C-i ClOOi!OOSOJCDLCCOt^iO»-<00— I 

^ CO OS - -.'— < -^ .M— ( -, .. *j^ .s 

t-* Cli— li— t.— i«r}<COiO»0 



'^COCMCOOOOSQOOOsOSOOCOI>h-COr^OCMiO'VCO!OcO 
CO"^ .CO .COCMCO'^COO'-^CO .OS CI .co-^ .r-o .o 

f-i— icico*^ T— I T— ii— icocoocooC'COCMCOt-H-rfi-HTr 

..CO - -t-H -. *.»-H .. - ..00 .. 

o r*--" i>.i-i CM -^ CO CO 



«jS^ 



S H u 

^ S o 

Q g} ©WOT 

a) C3 C3 Q o 

<" r/l 5 O O o O 

■•3 -2 o m M " " 



w -i . 1-, O O p>>f>>0 o 

m ffl (B 03 ^ gtoto o O 

~ 3 M M®^ 03 C3 * g I 

OPh ca-ga § 3'5'a o1 

t, f> s-y o o 3 » I 
<<<!^;z;a2fLiM2;PHP 



5 03 



'-^ ® +j_2 « -1-^ 



iMOtOOO 
»o o . 

rH«C-4 



2 53 J3 
S o ^ 

wPn.i; 



1-1 «. 

C3 
O t-i 

.3pf 
P( 
o 



c3 c3 3 a 
n o 2 ® » g 

J a £ a o-t) 



O C-fl 

osB ® 

2f ft 



S°SB 

« s ?=^ 

> ® > o 



3 S^S s^- 



® 2®^ 



o'SPS oP 1- S <i> 



i-(rti-(rti-lrti-lrHi-li-llMC^(MC^C>llNMC-JC^CqcOCOCOCOMCOCOMCO 



STATISTICS, 



43 






000»0'-OOOGOI~-i-^OOC^OiO 
CO O O C<3 »Ct .COI--0 »ocs 

n<oi . .00 . . o c^i 

^ - 00 LO -rue CO -v€^ 
CD O W -l^ «^ G^ t^ 



000>Cii-^<NO»0 05C^C^O'-<C 



i-KNOC^tNOlCOOOlCDOC^i-^OO 
.lO^DOlO'TT^ .OCT-l^C^i-trrcO 
rHCD.-l . . Oi . .iOC<J CO 

-s -. iC ^ 00 »0 CO •.€© 

CO (M c^€^ ei©^»o 



lor-^^iocoooi^t- 



looomcsoooioooooo 

. '^ r-i 00 CM (>» .OOOOOi 

<©O00 . .00 . . oco 

^ .s CO lO r- -^ -^ ^^ 



• O-^OOiOO ."^OCOi-H 
■^ CD 00 . .(M . . O^i CO 

w^ ^-. :C>Tt*ootO-^ ^€© 

t^ '^ et- ©5 Q^ ©a »o 



COCOO»00505iOrHOO»OOC-^fOCO 
COCO O CO 1— t O^ O '"* CO 



1-HOiOi-tOO^cOOiO^ 



05 10 



o>oooo 

OOi 
e/'^Q^co" 



iOi-i 



.»0^l-»0(N .OOOO 

lO GO lO . . t^ . . O -t* 

^ .^ CD lO I^ »0 ^ »sS^ 

ci Oi cfi* ec^ ^ ^ o 

CO<N ^ 



i0C0C0C0(NO0iasT-lC^(Ni-M05t^ 



lOiOO ^« O CO • i--< 



COi-lCN|(N tH 



cooocsiTPr-t-»oot-HOOOi-HOOio 
.-p<Ni^coco .t^ajor^(MOC^ 

lO CO CO ..■*.. O (M »0 

-. -, CD IC I>- -^ CO -N^^ 



CDcDO"^OTticD.-(a5t^C0C0»0(N 



lO -r 1— ( ^ lO "rr . .-H 



. ^ iO(M CO 



OCOCOIM'^'I'CO'M^ CD O O <M O O 



r^ ^ »o T-H i-H 1^ cs 



.-< . CO l>- t>- »0 CD 



" O'O -t" .-H iO c 






COOf- 

ores" 



CO O CO • CO CO 



I>.<Nuoi>COM<OcO 



r^OOOlC^'^'Ni-iOCDcOOOOOO 
N ."^I^I>cOCO .(MOOO 
(N Oi 1-1 . . »0 . . t^ CO 



t>.ioooiocoiot^t>- 

,^H . ^.0>»Ci CJi CO 



uOrHCD <N 



GicOcDC^CS|t--t^iOCsOiOOOI:^00'-t 
.OC0I>.»0.-l . CD CD O Ci CO CO f-H 
05 CC O . . .-H . . O^* "^ 
-. -s CO >0 t^ "^ CO -^ 

-f »o 6^ ©^ e© ©& 00 



ccoo 

CD CO 



C^OOOCOrHt^r-tCM 



■ ICD»0 



ioo^coocoGooo-^oiocr>r^oco 

,cn),-i -- - -■ — - 

r-ooo 

w't'^ »;^ ^ ©^ «^ o 



Oil— lOO'T'CM •Ot-iI-^cOiMi-O.-H 

. . t^ . .OSLO ^ 

CO lO t~^ lO ^ 

6j w 



C O 



bjD ^c3 c3 
C fl © o 
,3 o w ' 






O c3 c3 

j3 o t^ 

.5 ^ ^ 

•« i=i g a t, 

" 2^ Wrt ?<■!: 

•3 a o g o rrs 



i2 



2:3 

to J; 



O O i- 



0.' oj c; j; p 



CO 



Xi.'^ 



as2s 



U^" ®^ 






O Oo 

sag 






■73 T3 

00 &s s;^ ^~ 

ojQjooooyo 

.^ .^ O p, p. K |> O 
P p O O O o cS-'^ 
X ^ o 3 3'3 > P 



^i^- 



.Co 



> 

a! 

II 



o 

1^ 



.-2 .a* ° 

CO 



OJ Kn ^ C O) 



w a> cj t-. u p 



M I-. P O C 

a> cj t-. t 



''-''^.2 1 



S2^^^Z!I"^^'^'^'^O»H(NC0'*»0c0t^000^C)^C^C0Tt<>0c0I^Q005O^W 
P3-^»^j«^9i'^Tr^9»'^^'«j»'^tQj/3if5if5i^if5if3i^»f^L.OCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOt-t^t^ 



44 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



O 



^ 






^8 



O 






^6 






-^ 00 CD CD -^ 
CO O lO . 
COOO O 



O'* •'*c00iOcDa>O'*OCiO0i"*t^O05I>-f0m0iC0C0i0O00r 
O . -COOl .CO .Tt*CNt>-Ci'^ .1— it- .OOCD ..-100 .i-H.-i ..-I 

OOOi •OOCOOICN'^ T-t cOcDOrtiiOOi"**^cDCNOCiOCftcDCT» 



Ol -. 1-H ^ ,-1 - »-( 



c<i05TM»o«o»oo.-Hicr^ait^»ot^<Nia>ooocDiOM'-<coooo5^Hc^oC'00ot^oO"*ooi-H 

COiOi-H .-^ . CC .CO-^CO .C/0 •C^-^Ci'^t— I ..—».— I .-■■'CO .0100 .!McO .OCD OO • 

CSOOt-hcOi— lO-^»-Or-(MiOi— lO-^.-4 (Ml— laJOsOCOCit^CCi— I-^CDOIiOtHCOC^ rHCDi-H 

.. ^ ^ -.O - .s -,iO 00 -< -•'-I - •-'—1 -^ •- -t* - 

T-»Oi-H OrHO(N 1— 'C'lOCvlOO ^QO'X 00 



QOCiaHNOOi-liOcD 

T-H t^ CC .1-1 . ^ . 

lO r^ i^ "<** O t^ ^ 



COOOiOOiOOtHfNOO 
I^- Tj- (M . .-« . O . 

■^ CC.-1 O O COOO 



)C^OTP<NO»0C0i0Cl-^»OC0t-tr^*0COcC00O0iC0t^<M'^O0>CD 



.OS . 05 lO CO C 



lO CO OJ »0 CD 



. , . _- . Cl CO .0 00 -, . 

T-1 c/::.-h't'0»oc^o:icouoc^cooocdcDt-h 



COOf-O-^OCOOOOoOr^OoO-^fOCSKMCCOcOC 



i^co .TH.,t^(Nt^oco .coo ,Oit 



Tj^Oj CO CO "^ 



lO 00 t-- 1^ t- c 






r^ CD <N t- "^ 



cooir^cocD'^iccO'— i»Oi-t'«^Oi.-H(M»om.-<oocDOO»o»ococ<i^ooi^ 

OOOJOO . (M . O — — — - — — _, „ 

Oi t^ T-l CO 1-H O CM » 



) tt rr '^ O I>- lO 1— I 



. lO CD CO O CO 



(Mi-tOlrfOr-HCOt^rHi-y-r 



iC C^ "^ c^> 



00 rH !>. -^ CO 






ast-(MOcDCOCMCO 
t^ "<^ CO .o . -^ . 

CDCOC01-I.-I01-IQO 



10 1-1 Tt< Oi o 



0S-^l0 03i-t 



Olio -*< (M CO 



o . 

tM Oi 



T3 « 

dJ CD 






2 •"« aj ^ s 



OOrHcOi— lOii— icDCOOOOOt^cOfM'MaJiO-^OiOC^OOOscDOl 
'-DC/D .CO .COt— it^OOCOOCIOl .iOO -iMIM .i-<CO •n'Ci 
C^liO'fr-iiC 1—1 T-i-r^cOO.-<COOiiO(M»OCMC<iiOr-l 

..CO .s(M*.i-l-.r-<-. ..to -. 

CD TP f i-( CS rH 1-1 



OiOl>-aiCOr-<*OOSOOOSi-<<>)CDO<MOlOOfOOO'^OOOOi-JCO<NCO>OCOO 

I--CO . t--. .CDO ^ -- ■■ -- -- - -- -- ■■ -- " -- 

CD CM O !>• -^ rH 



5CD^' CO "^ . COCD 

rH rH CO 1— t CO CO t 



. CO ^ . l^c 



•(M-*0'M(M(MiO>-< 



. 00 »0 O CO 



1-1 '^i O '^ 00^ (M 01 



<M lO CO C0»0 



• OcO .OCD 00 



iOI^COiOiOOOO<Mt^OcOOOOOiOfiOiOT-t-*<M<M(MlMOtMCMOOr 
in fYTi -CO . CO fM i~>- lo CO . CO <M . -r O^ . 00 »-0 • O cO . O c* -^ — 
1—1 COC^OlCDi— lOOOOi'^^'O'^iOOOiO 
OS .X -,(M .s -.CM 

r-^ t^i-t c 



OlcOOlCOOOr-OOr-H,— ICOCOdCOCDOiO'^r^COCOlOt--COiOCS)i-HOt^CD 



-CO . i-H . CO I— I 00 t^ CO . Tf o 



05 "M CO OJ 10 



.00 CO . 00 CO 



1-1 CDCOi— lO(MOOO<M'-<0'<t^O)'^ 

00 .s •-'M - -s(M -si-)- ^-- .s 

lOi-i lOi-l CS COC^ <N 



OlCl^tO-?JH(M,-irt^COiOiOiOOClC7l(Mi-liOr^uOO(MiOC<l 



. CO cot^ oii>- . o c 



,. ,CO-H .OOCi .1— ICO 

-- ,ICOCDC-lGOCOi— ICOOiOCifMC^ 

O) .^ ^rH *. ^»-H - - ..00 .s 



O <U « <i) t- ' 



W OJ 0) g I* i 



> O O o o ?^o 

O M m w M ^ 

^ i- b *^ *-< c^ 

Qj ra c3 aj o) 7:? 

o o ^ ^ i3 



o o o o o 



bC^^rtri^flcS;; 









■y o o 3 o o 






; 0.0 o 

(5 ID Q^ 0^ 

tj ill r^ O r^ O 



m te " 
C3 C (© 



■g O) g ® g 

s t; o ?? 2 
'S t; -^ TS -ts 



ft 






, Oji V-. P » 



THC^cO'<4<ioot>-oooiOr-t'Mco-^u:icDr>.ocoiOr-<c-)f*:i'^»-':ior^c^oo^^c^co-*»ocot^oo 



STATISTICS, 



45 



lO "5 CO O i-H :£) O 00 c^ 



iQ o >o -^ ro r- c^ lo o »c "-H '.c r^ to 

t— O I-* . iC O -co . . lO lO O 1-H 

lO ■* i-H CO 00 rH (M 1-H 1-t toco 



535 w F-i T-* GC t^ .-H 00<M 

- - -^ CO TP CO -OS" 



^ C9 o> 
oi c: w 

^■2 <N r-t 



3 lO -CO • . CO CO O lO 
'Tj* irH rH lO O (N 

CO CC^ -€y^ 



t- o r- c^ I 
coco 



. T-H . . o >o c*) oi 



1 . . WJ UJ V.--I ^J 



-cnOrPOC^r-i-^CO 



^oo50cn0(^^cocoococ0'—^co 



I^ ^ CO CO 



. en lO 1^ t-- 



T3 >> 






;^0 © ftj QJ 



^cj Q> ' 



• c^icDCMOoor^-^t-t-Hco-^^ • ■ ■ 

.OOCiOO'^O .-^i-tOO • ■ ■ 
COOOO ..CO..'*'^'-' 

-. " CD -^00*0-^ -e© • ■ ' 

OOCD «^C^ C^€^0 • ■ • 

^ —I c^ . . . 

€««^ eo ... 

• OC-JOiOOOcD-l^-^OOO-MOOO 
^ 'f -^ . . -^ . . O »0 *M 

-( -. ^ o r-* »c lo CO "Se 



":ci--rMOcoco-Hcot-C50oc^oo 



■* CO ^€^ W€^0 



■ ^ (M cr. 00 o 



• Of-HCOiO-^ 

■ lO . -H t- lO 



lO ff) lO "^ CO 



•OOC^i-H 



O CO iM lO .-I 

O CO OJ O CO 
OCO CI 



O CM 00 CO CX) .C/:00O00 



oco e^«^ y^Q^oo 



■OOOOfMiOi-HOOQCOI^OOcOGCCO 

• c^ -i-iOc^ost-h .co:ji»cco t-hcc 

"■* 02 "M . . CO . . t^ ** ^ 

H -.-. CO»Ot^lCCO '-^^ 



• 'Mt^COcOCO'-'^'JOOcDOO 

■1 . ^ r^ Oi CO -t< . o o o lo 

CC O <— t . . <M . . O CO 

O OC' ^^ V5 G^ efe o 

r-* -^ (M 



■ rjit^'^oo-^ootMaiOif:) 

. I - I-- I-* Oi iO . C^ 00 O CI 

00 o o . . o . . o o 
^ - o u:m>- -^ CO -?^ 



■ O O Oi CT; O CO CO I 
r-< coo CO O 
OicO . .C 

-, -. CO i-O t 
coco $^€/> 






^ .S ^ Si w ^ 
tc t^ ^ t-- £? 

■ - --^^ 



"^ ^ W^ CO 






rt t: is-^ b C'Sc 



_2 S-'o. ^ 

g t. o t. t< •- Si 
r^ oi _rf -:, i/ a- G 



KoSetS g 

3 ■'?.'*" "o ;t! "o ' 

to C> g OJ g w I 

: 2 ■?. o -S o ■:: : 



.-s^j.-^ 



oo.a gg.g 

~S^ O o s 












; Cl ;^ Oi 
^ a> oj o 

p ;^ X t 



^ ^ _ 3 M 

ft ft w ?■ O O C g 



■5:5.33 



ai 



S H o Ji o 5 

O O <o r3 .2^ 

:53 3 fe s c 



C — 'o'o ® 
a> o ^ ;.^ bjo 

P>.>3 a C 03 






46 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAlSr MOUNTAINS. 



O 



CQ 



la s S 



w^ 






"8| 



" o 






Ht3 



1-1 oi^icr' 



CC^r-t '* cocoes 



>(NCO^OOC005r*00«3'^ 

^ T-4 O T-H ■**< lO'^ (TO 



<N -r o .o - o - 
O -^ »o cs o ro o 



O .-1 ooo»-i 

O lO lO . 



CO O O - r-H ,t-~ . 

r-( t^s »Cl CO O lO O 



(MO .-^ .lO'^COOfM .CO(M .'^'^ .t^O .-1<»0 . CTj tO 

OOOOiOOS i-Hf-H OI^OCONOOCOC-l'TjioOiOlMOlO'-l 



l<N050001iOiOOO(Nt^ai-^CO.-<OOC4'^CO(N<NrHTt*»-l 

— — -^ -. . - -J .c*:>co .i-Hi-H .oo .CD GO ,00 

lO C<l CO O i-H CO O C^ "3l>0'-tO 



I- T-i «0 (N ^ 



. C^<N I'* t* CV| ^C^CO 



05 ^ rH -s 1-H 



CO 1-t f-t^ ^ 



00OI-**^O'. OliOCOCOOfNOiOcOCOt^t^OOOOCO^J-^Ci 
.(N .^H,-iOOC^r-4 .l^r^ .1-rO .COOi .<NO .I--CO 



:OI--.i— i-^i0O00^cOO00(NiM(N.-hO'^OC0O1tHOsC<IO>O 
cot- .lO .OCOOSCO'^ .000 .1-HCO .OOi .Oil-- .co-^ 
'-tOi'-H'^t^ I— I OC/DOiO-^QOOscOr^Oi-Hrt^CO-^ 



Cii-H 05^ 



LO-^ -^ 



C/:X'OOC^t--000^C^cCiMO"^I»iO0i000^i0r^r-i0Si-iC0Oc0(Mt>-'Mt-O(N>0 
OCOt-^ .-f -Oi .1— <Ci.-H .CO .lO-^i— icDiO -oo .co»o -cor— -t— O .l^O^ 
TPGCOCli-iOiOOt'-Or-iOiOOS i-ii-H OO'^I^t^-n'i-icDCOiOOiOCOOOCOiO 

^ ^ ^,^ ^00 -. ^ -^CO t- *s -.1-t -. -1-1 - i-t -_-'0 - 

^COCnI go <MG0C^ iOCM CO<N lO r* -<# CO 



C0'<rCQO0iOt^'^C^t0(NOOC^i0'^OQ0O'-fC0'*C0i-l»0.-'i— tfMt^l^COC^C^^H 

c-T-Hco .ai .'^ .ocoo .CO .'^io»-oooo .inco .i-tio .o^* .oi-^ .i--o 

I>XC:0'<»*i-i»0^t^Ot>-COi:0-^ i-iCO <MCOL':;05<N'^COCO"^COCOCO'*r*0 



^ ■^ O 05 T— I t 



Tj< o -r . 



C^(N OOSi-4 



TrTf<i>-r^coooo»or^oo>0't<co^LOcO"^Cii>-u50iooo 



1^ CO . C<l • 05C0O 



r-0 0>0't<CO^LOcO"^OiI>-iOOlQOO 

OiOi .LOio .coo .c^t^ .c^o .^o 

i-( CO <N i-H CD 00 O »0 O CO t-» 1-H o: CD !>. 1-1 



i^CT>i-l'^OClOC/)C0^HOOc00icD'rO'1*»000^»-ir*t^'^ 



.Cp.COC*4cD"^CO .t-tO 



^ C-l . Cf:i r-l 



(^ o . cy? t"^ 



1-4 -^OcDCDC^uOOOSi-HiOC^-^iOCO 






1-i CN C^ (N 



<OS»OC^iOCflt-THiOi-i'*C^C^Oa>i-l(NO>COOiOi'^iO 



C. CO .00 .W^C^t^OCO .cO(N 



lOCDOCMtO 



. CO CO . Oi Ol . CD CO 



1-1 CO.-iCOCDiOi-Hrt<C3<NI>-i-lt--GO"*C^ 



t^^COcDC<ICOGOCO"*COTfr*OcDCO'MC^fOOOSiOi:^iOC005COCOT-4I>-COt^CO"^CO 



.■^ . t--i-H i-« 



-■r-Hcoooc^ .oo .OGO .oor- .cO'O 



CSi0C0-^C5OI^r^'*C0OXir-00OOr-iT-HC0u0O'^G0O'-«CviO(MOiOiOC0C^C^ 



1-* coco '^ 



i~-a> i^co ido oooj 



I>»0 COi-i 



5 ^ 

^3 



2:<i>.£f° > 



.S 2 0-- o.. 



o :=: o/ 3 o 

C3 bb d S =5 t, 

^ c3 3 ""- yi^ 



lis 

a* u S 

o 

O 4J 0) W CCr^ 

■" O O o o S, 
o W W ^ ^ CJ 

q >> >,-§ •§ to 

oo S S? ^ 



C3 R p 



^ o o o o o 
o o o 3 o o 



3 >> 



£ o ^ S ":S^ 



SS22 2 

c3 g 3 a 

" O OJ Q OJ 

o-Sgsg 
d a p s o 



a 



o ai o.S 

o G o 
mS m _, 

<B g ®.g 

S c3 3 rtTj 

g > ® > ® 



O.-^ (-. D © 



1— iCMCO'^OcpWOOOJOi— iC^CO-Tj'iOcDr^GOOlO'— i*McO'^iOCDI^OOaiOi-tC^CO'^»OcDIX» 
^rt^^rt,-i,_i^^^CvlCSC<IC<»C^C^CS(NC^MCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO 



STATISTICS. 



47 



CO •-< C^ t^ (^ CO O ^ QO T^ t^ »-l 



lOiOiO -^ OiO^ 



oc^ . t^ o . Gc r^ cs o 

CO I-^ T-^ . . t-^ . . lO I^ 

^ ^,-t lO '^ CO CO (M ^€© 
CO <N «©€0 fiOC^iO 



rDoOOOCOCOOTH^TtfcOOC^-Tj^oOCOOC^OOlCOiOC^-^i-liCiOCOi— t 
COCO i-i ;-H ^^€^a^^j^C.^w 



COO 



• CDOOJ'"^ CO 



(OO '-^CCiOCO 



o -^coio 



5»oa>'-<-^coiOfo»0"^ 

f^OOO . .CO ■ .CO — t 
-v€^ rH lO ^ -Til N .-H -.©^ 



COcOOcOWt^WOOWt^t^COt^cOiO'* 

-^ CO f-4 I-HlOIr^rH 

r- t-- C^ Tt< lO N CO OS CO 05 «-l 05 

00 00 (N lo 00 CO "* -^e© c<i 



t^r^^-i05i-HOoooooco 

00"^ . C4 CO . T-l CO O CO 



-co t^ -^ CO (N T-H -€© 



je© 4^Q^>o 



iO<?iiCT-(i— li0C0t^i00SC0Oc0O'^CS'^i005C0I>-C0'^C0<N0C>0"^ 



)tO(N CCiO^HOf-t 



r-i-^ CI— I ri-\ 11-4 .^ ,-/-\ ir\ _ *ji. _. ^ •* -^J V 



.0»fD .CS(N .OlCOCDt— 



- - CO CO CO »0 O CO lO 



-» 1^ CO »0 CO CO 



^ y^e^coi-H 



oooioooca-^iococot^r^o.-^oco-rf^ 

Tj^^Oa . . . .. . .00iOCT)O5CN . 

lOC^COt^t^'MCOOQOCO COr-t cO 

^ - lOiOcOCOOiOCO -9© CS 

C^ CJ i-H CD 



'*iOO'*00000500CO 

--Ht-^ .COCO .i:^<MOi-) 
0> C^ CSI . . Oi . . ^ l^ 

.^ -.r-H CO CO lO CO W ->€© 

r^co «©€© cfeSfei— 



l~-kO(McOCOr^OSTtlcO"*t^O-*r*<Mrt4 

•^f-tco -^lOcor-co . 

■^ CO i-H CO 00 o oi o CO 1— I c^ coco* 

-, ^ -co CO i^ iTi Tt< Oi r^ 
001>»-l 



^<^3 CO t- O ■* Oi !>. 



t-'^OOOcOOOCOOiOOO 

-— I CO . C^ O . »0 »0 00 CD 

OCOlM - .i-H . .T-H CSI 

-. - C^ OS CD t— »0 -^? 



iOiOOI>-OiO"^iOiOiCOt^CO'*OSiO 

OiOiO CJiOi— li— t 

COC<l»-<-^'^)MCOCOiO-^i-H t>T-l t>. 

-- coco<:ocot^c^(N -^ 

WC^ CO 



»ccoiocoiocoooi-(»dcs 

O OS . lO ■^ .050SCSCW 



->(N CK1(N I> 1-1 ^ 



J^ €©«>0 



C0OCC00»OC000^-lOSC<3t^C0cD.-ll--O 
•-HCDiO lO-^OC^iOO 

r*co csoscoosoiot^ ost-i th 

-- CDCOt*u:)00iO1< -9& 



t-l£>.CO<NcOCSOCOOOLOcO 

.COOO .T-HCO •OO'^CICO 

T-l(NiOCO . .lO . .COCO 

- -co CO lO -^ W N -^ 



ccogoc^r^iOTHOCior^i>-ooooT-HOst> 

OOO X> Tt* »-* CO 

tMOJCSCOCOODTftOO-^t^ i-lT-( ,-1 



00 00 r- 1— t- CO lO 



05,-l05,-Hast^OO(NrH 

OS -^ . CD O . I>- -^ lO t^ 

^ CO CO . .GO . . OS CM 

- -(M '^ -^ lO CM <M -e^ 



!!00C^O0SCMI>-C0t^i0*^OSi0iCiO'^C^O0S0S»OOlOi— iiOcOOs 
l'^ 1— (■^COCS'^t^ .»0 .C^lt^ . i^ r-i .•^<Jil—^'rt* 

• t-co»f5c/)C^ioooo»ocs c^,-(csi-Hi-H.— I.— icsicD • .r— . .coos 

"•■- -i ^ ^^ _-^ji ^ ^ t^ lO lO -f CM -^ 

^ r^ •* oOt-H &<5<» €©(»o 

I^ CO fi'^ 

OCM 



-©& 



e© 



s^ 



I ® £ C3 



bc c3 ^ ii; ■ 

■t^ O *-^ '^ ^ ^ t^ ' 

3 ® ;3 3 =1 1 



rrj O t* 

£f a S3 

3 2'S t* 

■y C rt d „, ^ ^ 
>-.r5>'S25aS 

fc-1 CO ? .^ X3 .i^ t* S 

(33 '•^ o-^ o 2 1- s; 






5 ot3 



■a j2 •- S -o ^ " s 

P< ft S"^ ^ O <u J3 

gy J^ 00030 



cwoooa)ci-^ 

p-ft^S25sa 



.2|3 88 

CO /I w-Cjl 

•-; g MO g ° 







48 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



2« 



> o 



ne- 



c^ Oi CO Oi iro 



C^i-H i-HOOl 



1-H MOO Ci " 
05 O CO - C 
i-H lO O 00 









(N (N (M »0 t'- 00 



:» C5 1— I t^ 10 i-H 



cs CO t^ r^ 



r^,— 1 .csi— I .Oi-t -wsco .coco 

THOiC^O'-HCOC^rHiOQOT-HCiOcO 
,— ( --^ Cl -^ W O 00 



iC CO 



tH Ci Oi CO "^ 



COCO CD t-t 



t^aicoc^iioc^ji-icot^fMOico^i-H 

— .COl^ . te^-rr .^tt*-rt* .OOCO 

i>-r-icOcocoir3.-Hi>.i-icO"^r^ 



o 



<3 



.3^ 



CO o 



■go 3 



cocoiLOooa>T-Hco<>j 

O O 00 . • CO • 

■^ ■v-t<-H o coo 

O OS Ci 



CO d 00 coco 05 
O r-t .10 . "^ 

■^ O 00 »o •— I 



OiMoO'-fcor^oaiOcDOco-rfo 

00-^ -OiO .l-^-rf -coo .t--CO 
lOOcOC-COi— fOOiOCO-— <t^o 



00 -.-,*-!« ^r-H .. ,-. 



r^OcOOOr-lOOOOOOOOQOCT'iOiO 



C^ (N 



CD CO 'O CO 



C40TPrj'^a5'^eOO'^l>-iMC<JCO 
"^ t>. . «~-l 10 . I^ t^ . »C CO . CO CI 
C<1 t^OOCOOI-^'OCJS'rGO'-HCDCO 

O '^ 00 CO t^ o w 



.-I (N Oit^ M 

lOOOcD . 



1-t CN 

.sGO 



lor^oOr-HCOi-HCsr- 

00 CI 00 . r-1 .CO . 



rHOOOOoo ot-* oosOirHr-^i— (ior*if3ioooOi(N05 rococo 

lOOO -00 -co TjtOi Oi-^ .COI^ .0"rj< .CO'— I .fMiO .C-ICO 



CD -s •^(^i 



rH ^ -. CO 



OiNiN-^aooi cDO 



coot^cor^cocoocooooDcoa^^ 

^. »^ ./— ^r-^ ,-^,— j .tJiCO -CDCO 

3 »0 01 CO CI 04 00 



^ '^o csi^ .00 .coo' 



CO », ^--H -. -^ - 1-t 

O CO CD C^ " 



OcOI^ 

.r-o 

CO ^ .. 

10 1-1 



O'^'^fOOCOOOOO 

■^■^05 . cs • t^ • 

CD 100 Tf O -^ '^ 

^ ^ -,-H -.00 



O O "^ T-i .— I 10 



CDf>»0 (Nt- 



cOfN'^ooot^cDOt-Hoot^iocico rH-^-<r 



• CO C^cD d-^ .000 .OOi .05CO .0—1 .,-- 

t-H COCOCOO»CCO»000[M'Mt-^iO COtMiM 



O -. <-! -V i-H -, ,-1 



»-f CJT-1 r-H 



i^ .g 



CQ 



S o 3 



So 



s>> 



CO 'O CO . 1-i .00 . 



OOOiOCOiO <N 
COi— t . M- .to 

iro 10 O "^ CO 



c^iococo»0"^QO-roO'— lOi-^r^o 

CO-^ .OOi .C/DOj .-^CO .OiCD 
.— t d CD »H <M O r- Oi -^ C^ CD O) -— ' 



(NOC^»H"rf<i-HCOcD 
C^OCO . rH .0 . 

^^ t^ Tji cs o CD r^ 



C4 (N Cfl CD T-( i-H I^ O 
CO O 'CO . t-* CO O 

r- 1 00 CO Tji CD fH 



O CD . i-"3 i-^ . CO CO . C I r- . .— < iO 

O CO O Oi »-0 10 00 CI Tji OS »0 OS 

00 -. -'-I •. -.T-H ^ -. ^ 

CO cs CO <^^ uo i> co 



^iocDi>>Tri^i:Noo 
OS ^ r^ .1-1 .0 . 

i-H CO iO "^ O ^3 -^ 
-. -» -^OS 

CJ^ 1-1 



1— I OS 00 CO 00 00 
OS r^ . ^ .0 

r-iCOCO 10 00 



COOr^OrHCDcD<NOOcDCOOdC-l 
O iO . ir^ "O . o CO . -rr 00 . iO oO 
i-H O -^ I— I CO O O tN O »— I CO ■*J' O 

00 - -.tM -w -.rH - ^ ^ 

00 •— ( 00 '-H CO Tfi CO 



l>'0(M 

CO i-( I-H 



OOursCOcDCOi-H'^lO 

cs TP o . f-H . c:s . 



ooooco-^c^oo cs»o 



^ Oi ^ 



COdOCJSCSIcDOOcOOsOOO'-HrH 

•— ( CO . o cs . o ;_; . OS OS . 00 lO 

T-H M* O -t' CD (N (>» 10 CI Ci CO W cs 

—r.-r oo^'-H co" 'n-'co^ 



2fl 



2fl a 



o— '_ 

111 



o.a 

"^ i^I Pl"5 m " -• • 

(u <u too g a> a_^ 
000 « 3 oi t« 3 



t- C3 ^_ 

o « Q d ^ 

p— S C3 O 






o o O 
O O cS 






. CM 






i2 55 rt c3 g ' 

■^ Kl O O « J 

OT OhO-i 5 



i 2 o-a S o 



ils.il- 



>t-H ® , 



.--bsg 



^ 


°1«5 








(1 


■a S > 






JS 


at>s. 



©3 a>.3 

ci © c: a c3'o 
S d > « >^ 



, ':3_. 



P-i P^m25 



-^CSCO-^U5!Ct^OOOSO— I! 



) TT to o r^ 00 Ci o 1— I c 






STATISTICS. 



49 





■vocr>t~o--i -r(St~ 


CO 01 <— ' t^ -^ 10 1- 


00 r^ -'SI -* 


-H GO oco ir- 


.^ 










t^ 


cc 






CO "^ »— t • • • ... 


. l^ TT lO T-t t-t . 


inoi .050 -cocot^co 








ire CM 




mm CT>oto oo ^ 


■V (M -H l>iOOO . .0 . .0010 












It CO ■'T <M M so CO 


C-t -€/> <N 


- -C^ CO CO CO C^ -H ..«© 














^ 


coco e©?© e©e©-H 
» «© 












OiO'OiOlOt-' ^^oo-^ 


r^aifcO'Tooioco iococoococO(M-i<o<moi 








r-i m 




WTJH o 


. CO 'J- CO TP 00 . 


C35 .-< -COCO .CMlOr-(C5 








CO 




CT>fO»ooor^l- iO-r»o 


C-l— 1 cow CD .- 


t-co . . -tl . . CO -tl 












.. .. »o ^o CD ^rOito 


■V -^ 'V 


- -C-l ■* CO t^ CO CI -e^ 








C) 




rf'J' 




CD t^ s© e/? 99 ?© CO 












■^ CO CO T-H ic CO ^:00 


t^ CO r^ CO 10 00 .-4 




TjiGOiocoocowr^o-ii 








C^ CO 






.TTCOO^ W . 




— en .CO . i^ 0: c-i 








CO ire 




o S "^ oi c/; —■ -<■ ry' o' 


crj o> oj 




^OCO . .CO . .^C1 












O "O t^ -r -^ l^ 


rf -e© CO 




~.CMOI~-'OIOCO ~» 














^ 




C© 95 












lO^— <t^OO rH-^M 


"^COCOcDOOt^cO t^M<t^(NCO<M"*COO»OcD 








CO CO 






.CO -^ 10 CO Ci . 


CO CO . C-) CD . 00 i~ uo 








1- 




lo S '^' — ■ — ■ o' o' m CO 




CM coco . .CO . . -.(CO 












1 ., lO'Ot^ -r03-* 


CO "C^ CO 


.... r^ lO »o CO CO -e© 












^ •-< 


s 


f-l rt «©«© »9«©0 

S^ SI 












cooco-rcor^ OO-M 


r* .-4 1^ CO f CO CO <T 


CM-1<COOt~-cIicOOOCM 








-H -* 






.>o 1000 -*00 . 


i^io .ooi< .cno^co 








OS 




^ 3 S CO co' ti — ; co' o' 


-< CO —1 "O .- 


000 t^ . .0 . . -HO 








--1 




-- lO'O'O -rco>o 


CO ..©& 10 


- ., -f CO CO CM CM »» 















CM 


I^ C-l €© e© 9J «© t^ 












OCOI^-^lOtM MCOt^ 


^^ t^ CO ■'SI Oi 00 




OO-tOcDiOOiMt^ClOcO 








—1 00 






. Ci uo C3^ -r CM . 




oco .ceo - 00 ce '^ 








ire en 




S c<5 c5 ei CO -^^ CO .-<■ c'l 


W O-H 01 




CO a:>cO . . Oi . . -<^ 10 












., ., iOU5^ COOOtt 


C-\ -S© CM 




-. -^ -* CO 10 'M ^ -^ 












(MCM 


CO 




coco 9.^ ^^g 
6© «© 












ICCOCNt^t^OO O'TCiO 


■^ t^ CD w ^H 00 CO 




iocMa>-t*r^oc-ic-^^CM 








ire CO 






.-^-rm-^^ . 




-M'jH .-Ht~.oor~c-i 








I- i-~ 




£3 S 3 lO W O -rr c i co' 


en .-. CO — c CM 




IC3 ire 00 . .CO . . CO t~ 












-- cor-io 'j't-^t^ 


^ "6© CO 




.. .V -.tl C-l t^ CO C-l -€© 








d 




^ CO --^ 


p 
99 




CO c-l ee «« «©«.-* 












tOCOCOC505t^ Olt^-H 


X 10 CO CO CO t- ire 




cocDi-H-HOcoirecoOire 








CO CO 




0^ CO -H . . . ... 


.-I' CO f .^ 




ot^ .cot^ .-^ooire 








ire en 




05I^C-l>OC-lt^ COM>0 


C-l— 1 >o 




CO -HCO . . --I . . CJ5 --H 












COCOt- COCCiO 


CO .,«© rt 




t .-— 1 -^l CM lr~ CO -H .«© 

t^--H e©«© es>9aire 
w«© «© 












cocoocot-ca cooco 


CO Tti r^ »o ■* 




--*iCM-HC5t^-<i*--tlOO-H 








m ire 




^-00)... ... 


. OD T so -H u^ . 




t^-H .oco .CMireo-H 








CO ■* 




iM 01 c^u^ r 1 •ac-i^ 


CO c~i >o 




CO ^ t^ . .c-l . . ire 












- - t^ t^ t^ CO ci 


CO -S© CO 




.. .s 00 CD 10 -n( CO ..9& 








CO 




COC-l y-i 


5J 




cocM ses© «©e©co 












IMCOCOOOCO COCJCO 


CO r^O l^ »ocD 




lOcct^^^occMr^i^c/; 








00 




0»0-H 


. CO C^) CO ^ . 




00 CO . ^ . 00 fM 10 








CO 




c^^^xnu-ji- 000 


CDrl .-< .-H CO 




CO i>o:. . .0 . . c^!iD 












-., t^t^t^ COCOCO 


10 ~€© ■* 




^ .. 10 »o CO CM ^ -e« 












10 »o 






occo 6^e« €^c©oj 












— l--l001^-r (M^HO 


OCOCO'OCO'T-HCOCO 0- 


00 C.' (M -t^ Ol 1-H rt* lO CO 








-« CO 




co^os... ... 


. t^ rr rr t^ CJ . 


C^ . C^l GO . ^ OS 








CO -* 




CO CM ^ CO C) CO C-1 


CO 10 -H r^ CO 


0«DiO . -OS . . (M CO 












- ., t^t^cO lOOOCO 


Ti- -a% CM 


^ -,t-i UO CO t^ '^ CO -0& 












(MCI 


9^ 














i^t^oi^oi-^ -lOci 


"^ CO -^ Cl CO 10 




r-c;OiOO;Oi-HCOOOOCO 








CM CD 




l^t^O 


. l~ ^ I^ CO t~ . 




.— 1 rH .0*0 . lO lO CO 








C-l ■* 




cot^r-ii^r^^ 05 ^ CO 


t^— ; CO 




COOI-. .eo ..O-M 












.,- lOioo coco 


CO -«© OJ 




-. ..rH 00 in 10 '<1' CO -.€© 








d 




^ ~-< rH 






0^ 9.^ ^^^ 

e© 99 





























p_ 
















, 












CO 


















, 
















































































1 

1 










CD 






i 




CJ 














V 


73 










CS 


_c3 
"3 

to 


















ft 

























-ao 












.a c3 g 










53 C3 


C3 





















oc 








.d 




















^. 


.d oJ3 








•c 


p2 





.t 





















ct 

IS 

_g 









g 


CO 










ers with normal trainin 
nt of teachers with non 
srs holding third-grade 
nt of teachers holding t 






1 


2 


.2- 




d 

<E 




i 

o 
13 

P4 


t 

c 

ci 

a 
"S 






'3 

.g 

s 




"3 
■a 

.g 

^^ 

u c 

rr 


^5 
-§0 

d-d 


1 


C 

r 

'c 


C 


.1 


> 


school expenditures 
nt received from St 
nt received from St 
iditure per child en: 
iditure per child 6 ti 
nt expenditures use 
n per child enrolled 
n per child 6 to 20 j 
of school buildings, 
ge value of school b 
er of school librarie 
er of volumes ill lib 
ze number of volun 
iting libraries used 


U 60 
*— c3 

§° 
^CM 

d2 




r^r^iiii 




— p«^5oooa)c3/2.Q ci — — p; 




um 
atti 
um 
nro 
eacl 
ver; 
eacl 
ere 
eacl 
ere 
Pit 


■^ g ffi 0---^ 3 is d d J- 3 p OS 

^gfe-^fe3-3'3*dg^.gaSi2 




<J 2; ^; kIZ^ ;^;KEH<5c-<f..^f-, 


rH<p..HW;-E-<^><;^;z;<J^OWW 




00— ic-iTO-rio cDt^ 


CO 00— lOlCO-KlOcO 


i^cor--o-HC-ico-<i'irecDt-oocr50r-icM 




c 


■^ 


■^ 


-r -:i 


"' 


''■ 


•n 


-r 




-? 


ir 


\r 




ir 


"" 


"" 


10 




ir 


iT 


CC 


'^ 


COCC 


CO 


CO 


cc 


cc 


cc 


cc 


1^ 


f- 


t~ 


1 



93148°— 15 4 



50 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIA"]Sr MOUNTAINS. 






cq 







O 00 O CO C<J O CO 


I-^ 


t* 00 t-- C^ lO W CO 


,fp 


»0 C5 CO O Ol 


■^ 


CO 


~r 


,_, 


coo 


.^ 


CO CM 00 05 ""ji -r 








9 ^, ^ 


CO^fi-H .^^ -co .1— I'^r-I .CD .-r COCOt— lO .i-H-»J< .OiO .CO CO ..— im .OOcO 






■»j'0'^T-H»o^»or^ioo3»occt^iOi-i 


^-V^CTiM-CO^iOOO^OOiCCDt^tocOWC^ 






03 CuC+J 


., .. -co -co - - -co 


O ' -(M - "1-H - -I-H - -O - -^ 








CO t^ CO CO t^ lO t^ 


C5CS Oio ^ CO oo eor^ 






00>O C^ m rt CO ^ 


lO I-H -^ CS CO<M 1-H 






M O 








m • 


<N Cq O "<f CO ^ CO lO CO O CO ^ C: iO IM lO 


-T'&oco.-Hr^ooo»ocor^ccoioocooi-<»o 






«^ 


NCJCO ..-H .-T .OOCOOD .CS .CO -J- 


OOt^ QOr^ .OCN .-T'^ ,Cli-l .COOO 






TT Ol 1* ^ O Oi 00 Ci rr O CV» lO CO 


THCq r-H lO rr CI OO O ^ lO i-H r^ CO ^ »0 t^ CO 






P-iO 


- - -(N -t^ - - -r ji 


00 • '1-1 --.-H -.^^ - -CO -v - 






(N rt r-t O) 


r^ CO CO cs CO --t o^ o -^ ^ 












. 


t^OiOO^-rCO^O 


t^ lo ^ o lo CO ;;3 


-o_::j-'5T-sc/Jcoco.-ic<iiot^coc^coio-^»-i'^ 






w >> 


coco ^ .00 . c^ . 


CO Ol .to . t* looioooo . CO CD . o I-H . .-t c^ .-TO .cor- 






° 3 
O o 


CO -^ 00»O O CS -r 


CQiOtNcO 00 


i-H COi-HOClCOC^iOC^O-^C^Cit^OOO 




OS 

.g 


^ -,rJ1 


OO - -r-H - -^ * >^ ^ -co - - 




r^To CO C5 


r^ I-H 


OCO -r iM !>. T-1 OCO lO i-H 




(M CJ <N 


CQ 


1-H ^ ,-H . 




"o 


o 










u 




















Q 




r^uo ^ »o (M »o t^ -^ ^ CO »-Hcq ^ o CO -t' 


COCOi-HOt^cOO'^C^tNOCDiOCOOOOO 




^ 


ii^^ 


t^T-tcO .^ .'^f .TCO'^r .CO .(N CDCOOOiO .uol^ .00: .OcO .CVICO .COiO 




coioooocoot^oot^cot^a>t^co^H 


i-HcoT-HiMi-Ht^r^ot^i-HiococouoO"^coc^ 






S3S 
tS s a 


- - -co -co - - -co 


00 - -^ - -^ ^ -,-t - -co - - 




"3 


00 1^ o CO inc<iin 


o 00 M* CO r^c^i •<?■ lo o »o 




o 
w 


tO^Ci -V rt "Ort 


•^ CO I-H C^ r-4 1-H 






cr^OiOiCCOr-(OC<lt^C^t^-*CO.-i-.^ (NCO00OCi^c005^'<rC0COi0TJ'»OOcOC0-^ 






t^ CO ^ .w .00 .cOr^co . t^ .CO cooooo .r^t^ .»otN .cor^ .coco . i-h co 






^-w 


f-H CO lO Cq O lO t^ t^ '^ t^ 1^ CO CO 


,-HCO COCq coco -V OCO 004 00 OOOt-ti-HO 






g5 


- - -co -to - - -U5 


00 - -cq - -rH - -»-^ ^ -o - - 






CO t^ 00 f~ -»• — I M- 


00-^ C<I (N CO 1-H O CO TT ft 






C^ r-1 1-1 oq 


" 






O^C0(M-I<-I'Ot~M00C0C0i0>O'O (N 


^^ocjwor-oiocot^co^ot^t^ot^ 








OcO^ ."0 .1^ .COOCO .05 .CO -cr 


^<NO .COOO .OTti .lOi-H .CO 00 .000 






<X) • 


-^J< r^ 00 lO O O O CO 00 »o OOIM -^ ^ o »o 


f<(MOO^O»OONO^»-HOC^iOOOINCO 






.b ^ 


- - -40 - --^ - - --^ -I-H - 


^CO - -^W ^ ^rH - -^ - -lO - ' 






tS tJ 


1005*0 CO ^H ^OOO O (N C^ 


rH OOCO r^ O OCO -^T- r-l CO »o 






fli5 


,-lt^CO CO (MOliO CO 


r^ir^ ooio OI-* coco lOt^ 






to CO W CO C^ !N 


O (N -^ CO lO CO r~t y-t 






WM 










ft 


























lO CO t^ CO t^ CO 






















to CO t^ 


































(N .0< O t^05 






















OOCM . 










3 


























<NiO(M CS 
























°lTg 










2 












































































































00 CO ^ 










o 


























































£.►,• 


CO 05 CO 00.-H 


00 05 


C0^C0(N 


^ 






»OO5T-1M'^^4»O00cDCOC000-r 


l-O 




"2 


s>>-> 


lO 00^ . 


t^ . 


»o O . -f 


CO 






»0 .OcO ..— )t^ .05C0 .OCO 


t^CO 




s-e 


lOO) (Ni-I 


c^» r^ 


lOC^ ClCO 








OlO-^iOCOCO-^iOO^t^rtCO 


CM 




CJ 


e ti 




-05 


CO 














p 


■§ 3 


coco 


CO 


CO 








05 1-1 05 ^ CO >o CO 


CO 




g 


^1 










































iOC^COOt^^H-^t^ 


lO O O .-H 


CO 






t^OI^»00005iOi'ai(Nt^05<M(M 


CM 






~ t*> 


^ti o --r . -H . lo . 


-Ji r-l . t^ 


TT 






CO .05 00 .^HI^ .OOCO . 1-H CO 


COCO 






11 


IN 05C0CS O OOt^ 


CS ^CO CO 








^fr.-coc^totOfMM'^rO-^to 


to 






- - -o> 


Tf 








t^.-<M--(M- rt-- 






.3 


t^ CO CO 


t^ 








wiC<i ^^c<K ni CO cs 


cm" 




















g 






































■ ;=: • 


05COCOt^'r^^OTfiiO'*CO<M 


(M 






O 00 C^ 05 CO 1-t O t^ CCI <M .H lO r^ 


05 00 




.a 


<D >> 


t~cow .rt .O .COrtCO .w 








^~ .<Noo .loco .^00 .coi- 






^a 


lO^-*^ Oi-iOOCOWCOCOiO 








O'Sicooot^i-^cotNtOi-tTrt^ 


CM to 




- - -rt -00 - - -CO 








00 - -i-l - -1-1 - 1-1 - - 






■a 3 


o co(N 00 eo^^co 








ijitN C^ M to t^ -T 


ni" 




"So 










1-1 1-* 




































lO 






ooo 























-^ CO 






SxW 




































CO . 




















to 


05 to 






t- -^ 




































1^ 




















t^ 


CD 






a? 




































t~ 




























± 3 
























































cm" 


cm" 






^8 
































































































<D 












































































c3 










































































































a 










































^ 




a> 


























oi 






































o 


N 




<» 

































































j:3 


.a 


•3S 


























i 








































c3 




























<D 






































<D 


<s 


























>. 






































s 


^ 



















































be 












^ 




"i 










u 







































5 
a 












C3 


a 
o 


o S 




CO 

> 




o 














CD 

























05 0) 










» 




+2 o 




o 




"3 






































II 










2 


<I) 

2 


la-il 


T3 

a 




a 

C3 





































«^ fl 




« 






> 


03 ff o O frt 




<D 








C3 






















.a 2 ft 
^ a g 






CO 

a| 


2 

ft 


ears of 
ears of ; 
her sch 
her sch 
of age 1 


s 

ca 


o 




o 

03 


a 




O.2I 

03 a a 




1 


















£.a+s 


u ;-• 


fe >> 


of illiter 
to 20 ye 
ment (p 
ailed froi 
ment- .. 

















1l 


a 0-5 
'3£a 




O C3 


-3g 


to20y 
to20y 
ne-teac! 
Qe-teac 
years 


03 C3 

oT! 


la 


^1 
a.^ 












«P-« B« 




» ft£ <!)/' g 

^if § ^ ? s 


opulation 6 

opulation 6 

umber of o] 

er cent of oi 

opulation 1 

Illiterate 

Per cent 

ative wliitf 

Illiterate 

Per cent 

opulation 1 

Illiterate 

Percent 

opulation 6 

3hool enroll 

umber enr( 

Ahite enroll 

olored enrol 

umber of p 






a 
.o_ 


a; 


-3 a H, a 35 a • 

>H o'S o.S o c3 d 






Populat 

Tota 

WliJ 

Colo 

Per 

For« 

Per 

Nat: 

Per 

Urb 

Rur 

Ofli 

Rur 

Area, sq 

Average 

Numbei 

Schools 

miles. 






p^a,;z;pMPL, ;? Ph pHcoZfSo 


2 






rH(MC0-:riOCOt^0005O^(MC0-^»0CD 


r^coc350.-((McO'riocor^oo050--<Nco-r 


























1-H 


'^ 


•^ 


"^ 




r-H 








cs 


(N 


CM 


CM 


CJ 


(N 


(N 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


eg 


CO 





STATISTICS. 



51 



CO r* 00 00 lo »-H 40 ( 

00 lO Ol t* r^ 00 00 00 CD 00 CO o '>J -"^ 

- - " lO iC lO CO O lO cc 



00 O C-J CD lO •*' 

-- .cooo 
CO a>r^ 



C>J 00 . t-- ^ CD 00 
. . »0 . . -"T Oi 

^^ t^TTCDTfCO -- 

e^e4co — ' 

CD«H& 



CDCOC00500»C»OOt--"^0000 

(NI--10 C^'Tj'CO'^ 

t^ 00 00 O O »-1 05 UO C<l CO rH (N (N 

- - to ?o CO CO 00 lo CO -e^j 



^(MCDOiOOCl'MCiOroOOOC' 

"^ . to -^ 1—1 00 00 . 03 C^ •— I 1— I 

^ 1-H O O . .CO . .(M05 

- -. lO CO 00 -^ CO -.Q& 

<D CO «^€^ e©0©CD 



OCDOOlOOCOOOOiOCSiOOt^ 
C4 CD CO to -^ lO O 

t^t-^OiCO-^i— icOt^cOt— t-4 lOfN 

- ^ lO lO iO CO 00 Tji CO -€©^ 

COC^ — « N 



t>-i-40SC0C^00cD00tDt^OiC 

"-i-H .i-HOi-ll-l-H .lOOOCO 
• ,-C t- Tf . .CO . . .-H 00 

i-H --. COTt*l>.-^CO -.0& 

c^ lO «^e^ ©&fl©co 



lO^-rc^oocNOco.-'O-TCSi-H ,_^co cot^r^cD(M»ocooocoo 



t*cDi-iC^O:cDt^<NO(M OC^l 

- -r-t^cD'^oocDTp -e^; 



(M CD Oct 



COXiOt^OOt-tO-rfOCcDOOOiO 



L5»0'— tCl»— tCDcDC^COC^i-H 
- -. - uo CD »0 CO 00 »r: CO 



•TT- CO iO 

-oo 



CC -^ CD 00 (N O — ' 

O I^ . O •— CD to 

. .CO . . t^ GC 

CD CO 00 »C CO -€ft 



»-iOOCOrrOOCOiO"^t^COOt^t^ 



C^ TT CO TT ^,_^ 



O 05 O to lO lO 00 00 -^ t* »— I CO c^ 
.^^CDCDCOCOOSCOCO 



(N t^ "* --< to t^ O ' 
(N . .-H CD '-' (M 

■O 00 c-* O • . " 

O CD G©«^ 

00 CO 
CO --I 



. CO i— I '^^ lO 

' . ,000 

• to CO - -^ 



•M 



CO^ t-Ol 

r-^ to cott 



^ ^ .Oi-t 

. .CO . . 

-rr CO CD CO C^ 



■^ to 

Oi-t 

CO* oS 



COM,-! CO<N CO 

^ t^'^r . . . 

i-«o CO cooo 

, ^ CO O CO 
C^J CM 



OCO 

oo 



-r ai t^ CD 0:1 05 

T-H CO -^ to Tf . 

1-t -^^ <M 



—^ CO CO 00 
DC -^ . -n- 

03 CO CC . 

00<N €^ 



O CO "^ o o o 

CI 0<N . . . 
to to CS 1— I to 



O CO Oi Tji CO CO 



l-O .C 

GC iMO 

— r -CM - 
o ci « 



t- -H CD i-H 00 .-H 

o cs 00 . . . 

C^ OO' CO t^ CD C5 

- - CO CD CD 



O^ 

ci CO 



00 Ol O O O CO 

00 -r CO . . . 

00 to CO Oi 

- -- t^ t"^ o 






- CO (M TT a. r^ i-ut^ o CD c 



-€« --< 



.GOi-H .CD 



WJ 



(D a 
a o 



tiC c3 rt lh 

c c o ® S 






8 g 03 

'Sea tjj 

— ■2'i 

■=1 13 03 fl „ vj 

^ g OTJ3 M-a £ 
"" 2j3 M-E S"C! 

i^ S--3 S «•£ 



C- O p ' 



^ o ^«-- o o o 

; ^ U. O U, U •« 

- O g tf s s g 
3 S 3 3 S 



, W - 



O -; t( 



. © o 

« £ o s 

3 ■_< f s 

D ® ® ^ 



— CJ a o 03 

01® g ^~ 

~ = l^ ® o 
■^^ o 5 



a «. 



|£a 



'"'^ ® — — ' 

go S c o 

> 3 o o 

0:1 7:; O O O (D 



? = S ■;=, <c cp o 



.ZT-S O 



ti E i^ S S « a 

•:- o =^ o «-■ c3 o 

?* c3 t- c3 !-. — d 1 

r* c; O) © CJ C C 



o o c 3 o 

w t> O 

B.C_0 03 c3 — 

' .t; .ti 2 fe S 

3 3 3 c3 > 3 



s g " " o) 

"5 s_3c'c ^' 
S ? p t h ° 

3 ^^ t; 3 3 *^ 



OO^C^cC-rjiiocOt^QOCiOt-4C^CC^»OCOr^C0050^'Mr^- 



? «5 r^ CO Ci O ^ CI 



^*0'0»0»C»0*C»0»OU3lOCO®eOOCDe£>^OCOCDt^t-*t^ 



52 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



^ 



<D O 



e o 






^O 



O)^ 






^w 



CQ Oi CO .CO • 00 _. 



C-J CD CD ■ •* • *-i 



!>.'* CO 
CO iM 



Oi'^ "O . r-( . C<0 



OiOOT-H*<*<CD^-l'*CO 
COCOO"5 



Ci O 05 <M ^-t 



■^tPOIiOCCOOOOCO 
O 00 1-1 . 0> .00 . 
lOCDQOCOrHOCOlO 



(»00OC0O*-iC^Tt< 

CO t^CD . i-H - CO . 

OO .-<<DCO O^-H CD 

- ^ -OS 



Tj( .eD-HiOC5 CDO 
« • .i-H . CD W !>• 
■^ * Q5 CO ^ 



C^ lO »C 1— I ■"^ f* 1— I lO i-H O CO T-H T^ i-H 00 CO 1— ( l 

lO .011—1 . a:> r~t . -^ CO . O "^ . Oi rr c 

r^OOOCDCOCOiOOOOOOO'^CO IOCOC<» 1" 



1-H i-< O ^ 



t^CO<M»O(M00 ^CD O 
C^l CD . "O . lO »0 lO CD 



fOOOCMcOOOt^rHt^-lHaxNOS^ OOOi-tcOO 
lA ."^Ol .lOCO .Tt<C> .coo •Or-' '^ 

O Tj* i£> O CO CD O CO -^ CO 00 COt^ 



00 - ,-H ^ ,-1 



^*r oc ^,*- 



asco -^ t^o "0 

Oi O . Ol .00 

CO o o •»*< »o 



lOiOOlOCDCOCXNOOi-HOOcD 
!>. .OC5 .UOI^ -CSO .t^CO 

^uor-ot^ioooi-^ocor^ 

CO - -Ca - -(N -. - -. 

CO CS C^l C^ rf t-- »0 



Of-OJt-t o 



Ci r* ic Tt< ai CO NtM 
OcD . »o . -^ w r* 



r- O O CD Oi t^ CO .-H C5 -^ "^ CO CD c^-^c 
CO-OO-^-OOcD ' ^ 



i-H -^ 1-H O CD CI Oi CD 1-H (M Oi t-H>. 



00 ^ ..,-t ^ ,-1 



--r CO *- 



'^CO'NOOCOCO OSCM 
O CO .CD .00 CO OS 



COOOcOCOCOt^-^COOI>-CO 
t^ t^ . Ol 1-H . T-H r- . t- CO 

CO00^-COcDcD1— icD'-fl-^iO 
cd"c^ lOC^ CO ocTu^ 



ocot- 

• CO Oi 

CO Tf 



00 OO (N CO lO •'1' O '^ 
CO t^ . "^ .CD CO O 

CO "«**CD CO lO 1-i 



lOC^t^t^iOCOCO-^JiOh-iOiOO 

•^ .Oi'<l< -CM'^ .-vr^ .OiO 

iOt^iOGOCO"«*'OOOCOI>'CSO 

co"oi COC^ iS t-^o 



O lO lO t-H »0 

OOO »-l .-H 



t^COt~^Cl^(N'^COcDr-icDO'-*ClCO 05.-H 



00 r-00 .CO 



. o . ^ l^ .-I 



CO'^OOCOCOi-IOOOOOkOOOCO-^"* 



CD . Ol CO O ^ 



c<) '<*' oi ^o o CO r^ o o o ^^ o i-H coi-io 
r^ .iM(N .OCD . o 'Tt* .coco .COO 

CO Oi O CD .-H O O O CO C5 Oi CO CO t-( cs 



00 CO r^ (M 



-^ -. t-* -. 



cDOt^^O"^OcOd(~^d»-<COoOCO OOcD <_- .—.^J.-■^-"tfNh_'^.'^-^w' ■.■.'»— .^.i^vj^^wj 

CO .-H ^ .CO .est . -^ CO '^ .CO . -^ CO I-H -^ -^ .t^O .(Nt^ . GO 1-* . OC O 

COCOr^O O -^ CO lO I^ iO (N CO l>- »-l i-t co o ■* ^ l^-O O o co t^coi>- 

^ -. ^,-H -00 - " -sCO CO - -<-« -. -1-* •- - - 

to -^ ,^ 'ffiOOiO C-Ji-tOT-4'^ti iCCO 



*-ic0'*"0c0t-^r--OC0*-icD000S t-»00<NO 
CD"<^CO C^ 



CT>-*.-HOiCOC*JuOuO 
O CO IM .CO . lO . 
CO »0<N »C O-^ CO 



OS00i-tC^COC100<N 

<M CO O . ^-t . Oi . 

CO csco CO o coco 



t-COi-nM^-4CO»OcO 
i-H Oi IM .CO .00 . 
I^ t^ CJ lO O lO CO 

r^co CO 



Ol WTt* ,-H C^l rH 



cOT-iO(M05r^i-ico»oca-^cot 



OOO .t^ .Oi ■'i't^ lO 00 .OiCI .wco -osc 



^^C0»-40 



00 coco O CO 



r-( t-^ OO CD O O '^ O 1-H C^ Tj* CO UO lO 1-H CO 

00 -^ .-rH " "..-I -. -, - t^ _. 

"»*^ 1— I CO I-* lO t-- »0 lO 



CM 1-H 1^ (^ coco CD 



CO-*— 4^r^COiOb-OiC^t-^( 

CO . CI lO . CI CD . CN O - O ( 

O-^COtP.— liOCOiOi— 1CD»-HI 

00 _- ■ 



-* r-H 



I>.C)cDt^r-llO OlO CO COCO'*COCO'<fO'<i<'*COC^OO 

— <0 .CO -co C^OS (N iO .COiO .1— lOi .OCO .Ot- 

Ir^»-i(NC0»O CS COiOOO'^OOcD'^eDCSiO-^CO 

* -uO t^ - "1-1 - -"'-H .- - - 

r* f-H c<i ^ ^H i-H -^ CD-* 



Ol^Mcot^Oicoo^-»co:.»coo^^|^^o 
cocOGO . lo .o . ^ r- o .CO . »o 

IV*0--^'*OcOOOt^--'^cDI--t^ 

Tj< ,-1 CO 00 "^ r-t CO ^ '-' lO 

CO f-H r- rH lO -^ -^ CO ■* 
i-Ht^-* CD '* r- ^ 



-CI 1-H CO . r~ 1^ . 1—1 CO 



-Oi^cDCicOt^cOOSOOOi-f ^HCDOi"*C 

. . r~ 1^ . 1—1 CO . o i^ . r^ ^ . »o o o » 

I lO f-H O CO CO 0:> OS .-I C^ 00 rr CI f-1 O CO f-1 c 

-co - -.1-1 --. --. _..£^^„ 

lei F-Hi-i CIO COC1 0DC5 i-H^ 

oci >rci c^'Tf coco coo 

CDCJ CS .-t iO t^ lO -^ i-( 




S c3 C3 

• :=: o fto 

\u ^ O a 



»-tdCO'^lOCOt^OOOlO«-iClCO-*>OcD r^f>D OS 0'-<C^CO-*»OCOh-0000»— tCl 
WW ^^^^^^^ ^^ ^ OICqO»(N WWMCSCS WCOCOCO 



STATISTICS. 



53 



OC^QOCO-^CD WOTf lO lO -^ CO lO t^ O ■-' C^» O -H t^ CO O t-H Oi OS O OS C^ O O 



lo CD 00 . r>- 1^ 



c*:i Oi o^* 



. CjO I^ O CO ro Oi CO 



QO CO €^e^ 



5 CO CI -.e^ 



COiO-— lOOOlO cocoes i-IOOiOO"— icO'-Ht^— (b-OcOO*-* iOCDCO— .OiiO 



CO <N 1-1 . t^ O 



. t^ COOi XI 



. CO Ci Oi —• OJ OS O 



coco e^e*6- 



OCN§0 CSI 



ooio-^cO'<*»r^ or^co ■*fi-Hi-icoosi-HOs»0'-t(M'— ^i—icoo ^— — -^... 
.-^_ ___ _ ^ .,— (lOCSr* .»-iO5cDCSCMO:G0 .■^cc^h.— . 

"^ Oi-l OS '-I OrH O --f . . GO . .COiO 

D »o -e^ - - lO '* toco c-i '.^ 

OS -^i^e©*^ ^e^oj 



CO CO iJO • CO »o 



CD O OC CO t^ lO OS 

— -' 1-H ^ to r- 

CO lO »o 



•^ODOi-l^^H MOOS COMCOOO 
^. — _ .lOiOCDiO 



l>- T-l 1-H 



-^ c^ OS CO (M C^ CO 
OS OS ■^ »0 CO CO t-» 



^Sl 



CO CO r— .-H CO OS 
'^ 1^ CO . '^ CD 



i>- t^r^ CO CO 



CO CO -^ O 1—1 



CO OS «^«^ 



OSh-(NOSiOCO ^HCOO OOcDcD W iO<0 -^ O (M -— I ^H CD - 



c^ o c^i . CO r* 



.OSiO"^COi-l .C/D OiO OOCOO lO 



c^ir5'MOG0TrO(M>«TP CO 
.l^cDOt^t-iOS-^ C^ CO 



c^ !>• to (N "* <N cooor- lot^cot^r^ 
ccx-rr .t^t- -OS . .co»ocD>o 



lO O CD -n" CO "^ 1— ' 
lO O CO I-- CS --H lO 



coocoot^ 

.00 lOO CO 
00 . .OOS 
t~- ^J* CO -.€© 



lOGOt^ior^i^ o^T-H ''t^r^osc^i— I 

CO CO CO .coco . "^ . . r- -^ CO CD 

locowr^ ior-i»o CO ooco 

-. •* CO -^ OS CO -e^ 

<NC4 i^ 



M3 I'* «J t.N ^T" »— 1 1 

UO CO O 00 -— I c^^ • 



coiMuoOO'^or^ 

. CO CD O -rr CO «o lO 



«^S©0 ^ i-H 



OS CD CO CD tT CO 
TJ< CO <— ' . CD 00 

CD CO CO lO 



CS CD t^ OSiQOO-^OO 

. <N . . t-t •«*< t^ i-l 

OSi-1 00 1-H 1-1 oc^ 

-«t^ GO CD -«^ 



•^OC'OOCOCIOOCO .— lOI^OcO 

.— iGOOsOSO-lOO .lOcOO^ 

.-. I> lO . . '^ . .OCD 

^ - CD -^ r'- r- CO -©& 

CO r^ «« «© e© €© oi 



r-ot>-oot*os co»oo -^cocoiooo 



CDCO^HCOOCDOS r-HCOOlOCO 



' GO <» lO C'J iO I- 



GO CO lO -S 



CO CO o o 1— t lo f-H r>- i-H 



OSi-iOO CS— I 



. O -^ O oo 



CO »0 1— < CD 00 lO lO CD -^ O lO -r lO CO t 



r^ I--. CO TT" .-I to i>- 



t^ r^ «& ««- 



. ■— I GO -^ CO "^ •■ 



I^ to 00 rH 



00-^COCOOOGO osot^ 



)0 CS -coco 



''C^t^ClcDOOCtO'OOS cO'-<OOt^OGOt^OCO— < 



. CO tJ* CO O to , CO t-* CO C-l T-i 'T) -^ 



OS.-HGO '^Tfi' OCOt~»000 OOO 



-. -, O t^ CD CO ' 



CO l-^ CD 1-- CO l^ >— ' CO 

. I— t »o CO r^ r-i "^ 



^^tr^^^t 



t^€© OS ^ 



' 5 cS 

;5p 



• Co o3 
-' cj ® 



c32 



cfr"?; Sr= 






C3 

fe.g 



; ^>.„ 



■"^oog 



■ g . (3 



« is 2 o rt 



' ® 3 d 



&5 



:x: s 



. -XC d ® d 

, a c g M~ 

1 S 3 d c3 3 



— j3 c3 .^ o 
O o ^ G *^ 



C^ <- SI.-, 

1^:5 « O C 



:M = c;J3 
> o) t; o ,. 

•-^ o ci n 



ft 



'gs 



7; ^< d C c3 



^.2£a : :.9 



;3 3 



° s 

o o 



o a> o) ^ 

® © a> 
c 3 3 o 



£ d d ® t; 

5 (C O) O C5 

fe K ►< s s 



S .■5 Z; ° o : 
^d j3 o 03^5" 
00 o ^ -■ 



c t_, :3 





IS-, 

> 


dd 




c c 


C3 — 


■S'-^ d 


feS 


d d c3 


t> d 


^b^XZ 



d mC g2 

S s; «c3 ® * g 
d g doo-43 
d?"d d^ 






54 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 







Q 



CQ 






s 3 






^i^r- 



0(3 



tj;^ 



oi r-H r- . . I- . 
.-H 00 CO iM o r- 'Xi 



»0^ CO .M .lO • 
t^^iOOi OOO 



O 00 (M -f^ 00 CS) CD 00 

i-H 1— I Cl - . 1-- . 



(^Niftt^COi-HOOO 
00 00 O . i-H . o . 

lo r^ 00 r- o i^ (M 



OOt^i— iiOCOi-lOOiO 

t^ci 00 -co .00 . 



rjiC301"^^0iOiOC0'^O0000.-HCDC 



.-HiO '^C^O 



1— I i-t CO .-H CO r 



CD^ GCi-H 



)C^1COOO»-iiO'-iCO':DOPO 
COtNOOOiOfN-^i-H 



. lo r~- . T-H o . 



pCiGO'^t-^iO<N'*(NCDC9cOOi-lTr COOO 



-s *Oi -^ 



coiooot-i'^ciojr^O'^oaj'ftiooic^ot^-t^oor^'^c^.-iooooo 

• rO . C^ i-H I>- (N i-H .00 .^'^ . O rH .Or^ . '^ CO TT i-H . 
^T-Ht- i-H 00t^CD»Orti-^C<IN^0000(MOi-li-l ^Tficft 

CO cO-si-H^^-. -, -w -. 

CO CO i-H r-li-t ^ .-H 



r-WOiiMi-HCO.-i-^t^^-.-iOiMOicOOOtDOt^OCOOOO'^CqcqasiiOOO 

— -- -- — .■ --1. -- - tM t- . ,-Hi-H . (N CO ■ Tf C^ 00 »0 . 

lOiOCOOiOOOiO-^iOO-^ r-tOC^ 



iO(M 00 -(J^ lO 



.oi-^obooo . CO "rf< 



coco »o<M 



cooooot~*os'-icoioi^-ooai^jC"*cO'-icooiOir^oo-^co 

.<N . Tl4 T-H 00 O ■<»* . CO !-< -CMCO .000 . C^ O . CO c^i 

t^c<»TtH (M CO (N 00 "^ a; coco CO c^oi oo r^ o 



r^0iCD(MC0i-H00c0'*C0't<NCT>00O>0lM'^C0r-^HO'-'CSc0Tfi'-<OrHOi:^THr-«c000t 

cocoes .CO .r- .< ~ ~" *-— . — .._ 

(>J(NOCT>OOC<»CO'<t'C 



. CD CO C^ CO <M . lO t- 



. C^ O . »•- CO 



COt>. t-- O CO Oi O O -* CO 00 Tf t^ '^r »0 1-1 (M !>. f-H c 




CQcocot^-^wooos 

IMCO -^ .O •»-» . 
COi-li-l^rHT-<00CO 



COCOOirt*i-Hi— lOOiM 
GO— ' CD .<M . Oi . 
O t^ CO ■^ 0»0 lO 



OO-rr^cOiOO^T-HiOCO 
00 O 00 . . I-* . 

00 "* '^CO ococo 



CD 00 00 CO OS 00 t^»C 
■* •<t*C3S . O .00 . 
•^ C^ 1-t O 1— < CD 






8)^1 






C<liO"^OC<l»Oif:iC^COW5»Qi-H>OcOOCO'0 0500TfTjiOOcDWC^COcD 

.r- .cococioscs .cooo .CO"'*' .coco .uo^h .t^co 'tt'O . 

C^»COC^ Oi 00 00 >i^ CO 00 lO .-H CS O O C*l <N .-t -^ CD CD 

C<)i-H CO-.■»-l-^^-H-^.-^^ -J>. ^ -.1-H 

irt >ft ro m ro PM cvi 



QO(N . 1-H .(MiC00.-«O .Oir 



OCi OOiO ^ 



(N.-HfM'^ascO'^cOC 



MO^H O— t <N 



)Or^COT-iO(NcDOcOi-H"rji(MC^tDOOCOOcOcOiO'— IOC 

~ ~ ~ ■ " ' ~ . CO OS -COO .OuJ uui^j 

lOOiOt^'— <OOOCO'-< 1— lOSCS 



1-4 1^ r^ 



3^ t^ £^ tH 

__ Q OJ O OJ 



S 53 a 



cqr^-*cocDoocDt^ost^ioooosoocDoot^oait^'^i>-o 

• O .U3C<lt^00iO .lOOO .T-iT-H .OCO .»0-^ .OiiO 
iiOCOlO rH .— (0"^'^^-"^'*'^C^'>'QOCv|r^OT-l 



c:s ^ -,.-1 -V -,r-H 

Oi-H OS^ C 



cocDr*Oi-ic^iOT-to-^oo(Nor^c<»'-<»ot^t^cooiOc 

.00 .lO-^iOCOiOOCOi— I .COOi -"OO . <X> -rr .<Nr 
10*^05 T-HOOOCDOsi-^cDOOf-HiOCOOcOO 



C3 y^ w 



S '-' fe 

O <1J ^ ii iCT3 

.§ ® 03 o O 03 

.^ ,:> ° O o o S; 

So § S h >^ "w 



J QJ OJ 



2i^^? 



V) QJ Qj 03 ^ 

■75 t- r2 "-i " ° 



S o o i , 
S G ' 

Sggo' 

^ 03 03^ 1 

gasp: 

T! O O 3 ^ 



3 l>> 



O I- 



^ o S3 2 
-■^ S5 £ 
=03 2— 
a P n"? 

t;^ " o <» 

t§s-5 



^tls-5 



as 



OS 

1111 

0) 03 a 03"^ 

=3'E1'S-| 
9 ° K a «^ 

» tH ^ J5+3 

TS a^ Q ,, a 
t! rl ^-^ O 

■35 n 3 S 



•-i(MeO'^ioot^ooo5 0^(Ne<5-*miO(^ooo>o-H(Nw*i 



-oociOr^NM-'fioor^oo 



<C^<NC<I<NC<C^lSOC<C^C«3COMeOMroMC<SCO 



STATISTICS. 



55 



■"iJ'iOOSC^COCsCO'^OO'^J'OO^O 
coot- -coo -O • . t^ lO O r-i 



^ - O "* O '^ CO -€fe 

.-H lo e^ e*o ^ «/i> (M 



e@ 



«© 






00 lOi-H T-l <X> rH 



■ eo-^c^— i,-H»-i<Maioi~-ocO'^OTH 
00'—' • .CD . . iO r^ t-i 

^ ^ lO lO lO CO (M *.€© 



loOocO'-'t^ootO'^cot^-vfor^o 



- o r- • o lo ^- 00 



^ -s O CD <£) (D-^ -©& 
(NCM €©©& e©«©(N 



t^ CS 00 t^ t^ 1— I iO 
^ »o lO . — " 

CO o c^o 



-rcoioOcocoiOTrocoiocoaicir^ocNcDi— iOc<i-^O»Oi-HC0ic 

O ■ .(NiOr^OT-H .O00C0^-C00:'O -OCOOOC^i-hiM i-ii-i 

i-HOiCS'-H OOi-H 1-H^ t"---! ..t^-.O'* "^ ■ 

^ »0 "©5 '—I -■- cocoi-^coc^ -^ O 



ICO 
(M »-( 




oicoco.-<oooooO'-iOiTrC5aiOio^'0 0-*.-tr--co'>iCiOOCiOr-<coi-HioC'ir^^ 



I^ lO (N . !>■ lO 



. t^ -^r O t-- <N . -^r lO lO O 1-H C^ CO . O^) t- O (M i-H CO 1— I -— I "* O 



"tOOiOiCiOCOOiOt— r^Ot^OI^'— iCOCOt-CO'^CDcD.— iCCOiOiO 



cqoc^.O<:D.O, 



. '^ t^ (M lO CO CO CO .'^i-lO'-' 
-^ lOCOQO'^CO --. 



CSOiO^r-^NOcOt^i^OiOiOli-iOC^'^'OC^OOlTHOGCO'^OC'I'^OCI 
O-^'^D .t^OO .00 . .»OTrC0I--i-H .OOOOCO'-*COOiO .■^■^OO lOO 
OOOt-tTf W 1-lCOi-l CO^ CDi-H 1-^zO . . Oi . . Oi ^ c^ 

„ ^ r» lo tD ■^ -^ - - »o CO o CO iM -^ 



fCsiococicor^iot^tNt^cooco 



'■'-> 1-^ Ci OC C^ -^ "^ — . .~- /— , — . 

ocs 



cDoocioccooiO .i-ir>-oo 



" -s -"^ CO t— CO oi -« 



Oi»OTrlOCO^*c^occlO^-lO^*lC(^^^:DOOoocicOl^1lOcoco'DO^o 

■C:»00»-( .CD^^ -co . .iOCOOit^ .t— 0"t)rp.-(Tj<,-i .001:000 

CS»(N CO 00 OCC O^^ CO i-H(N<M ..^..^.^-1 



•N ^ oi r^ lO ■^* CO -o^ 



-D O lOi-iOO 
o o 



2 
2^ 






o c- c o yj - 

a"^ rt rt ti c? 
_- O QJ g li 

o Mv, o O O g _ 






1 © 



mm 

® « £ o 2 • ? 

j:^ 0+^ 'I'C? **>, 






•2.g 






3 







OiO-^CflCO"^iOCDh*OOOiOi-«C^C^^iOCDt~-OOOiOi-<C^CO'^iCcDI^OOCiO»-<<M 



56 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



cq 









ft.r° 



05 






'^o 



So 



CO rH C^ 10 i-H .-Ht-- 



O C*^ rt< O CO t— M 
r-lcO CO .05 .(N 

■^co co" 



'^ »0 Oi Ol O i-M ''^ 
lO lO Oi . (M .01 



00 r^ r-t o GO uo <M 

10 O Ci .CO . Tt< 
-^ I^ ly? CO T-H T-< rl 



O <:D t'- CO t^ 1-t rH 
»-ICO CD .CN. . CO 



tH 10 CO CS CO 
CO coco . 

T-l lO O Oi 

co'io" 



Or-H OitM COOOfN 
(M CO 00 .0 .1^ 

CO 10 CN CM i-H O O 

o6^cd"c^ ccT 



05 I^(N 0»0 



CD -^ (M O CO M CO 
"^ »0 Ol .CO .CO 
Oi-H GOOi 00 



COCOcO'^iOCO -^ Oi O 
CN Ti^ . O . 1-- CO 00 i-H 



^(MiOO'rPt^cDt^CNCNC^OOt^ Wt^O 

OOCOcOcOO'OO-'T'Oi.-l-^ cDi-lC<» 
00 - -i-H - -i-H - ^ _ |>. ^ 



t^ iM CD O CO »H (M 
. CC . »0 CO Oi CO 



1—1 iOOOI:--t^»OOI^CO-^COt-^00 i-nOO 

ir^ -, ^y-i ^ ^,H - ^ ^ ^ 00 - 

Ci 1— I OS 1—1 CO "^ CO 90 



-* (M O <N . '^ t- 



.CD .CO *i— liO CO COOiO"^ 



C-3 O Ol CO ^ CO i-H CO ^ -^ O t 



O CO . »o -^ 



tH T-dOiOiCiOiOiOC^ lOCOCO <NCO 

CO 1-1 t-lT-l r-l 



■(J< i-H ir^ CD Tj< N OOCD !>. 



CiCaOcDOCO'rHcriCO'^COC^ i-hOC^i-hO 



r-l O . CO lO . CO CT) 



i-H to CO 00 Tt< CO o c^ t^ CO t^ ::3:*^ 



. CD CD 10 



GOcOt^OiC^ir^ lOcD CD Oi"*i-HI>-cDI:^Tt<r^CiOCOC^(N COCOcD 



O »0 . (N .10 -^ CD 



.__ .OO .Ot-^ .GCOO 
^ 1— I 1— I CO C^ CO T-H CD T-H CO 00 O Oi O 






CD O CZ) CO ^H -^ t^-^ 

C^ 00 OCD Cl 



OiCCOCiCOOO»Or^CiOlOOcD 
t^ .-^Ci .Ir^CO . — (N .l^O 

' - 1^- CO iX) 00 T-< I -- - 

:) ^ ^^ „ ^, 

^C-^ CO C^4 



■^ CD OCSJ O 
.COCN CD 

t-^r^co 1-1 



i-(iCGOOiCOO 1-^tH 



ClGOcDi— l(3:h-i— ir^Cvj-^OOTt^CD CO»Oi-t 



. O .CO t-H CO C^ C^ .coco .coco . •TT' QO . lO Oi 



1-H <NlMcD"*00iOC0". 

CO -^ i-H - t-H .. 



^ C^rt ^ 



OCDcO "^ 'OOO 
03 O . O . "* 

CO i-< I^iOO 
^ -co >-l 



gs 



■»Jf CO CO CD (M '^ O l-^ M ''^ W CO O CD 1-1 00 GO 

10 CO .0 01 .000 .cOOO .010 .COCO 

1-1 cD'^t^CO'*<^(NiOCNcO-^0 t^TTiO 

CD - -r-^ - -rH - ^ ^ t>- -, 

CO 1-H tM 1-H rji COlO Tjl 



OiOOCJscDt^O ZtfO 



lOcDOCSI '-^i 



.<o csco ^ 



WWCOC^"^»OOt--cDOiOcO-^ 

»0 .Clf-i -0*0 .COOi .CD,-H 

1— (TPGOr-OiOcDcDCOr-li-HCO 

00 - -..-H ^ -T-i ^ T-H ^ ^ 

O 1-t OJ ^ CO 10 w 



CD -rP t- (N 'rf O cD GO 05 

-^ CO .CO .00 CO 00 O 



CDcOt-hcDOOJi— ("^C^OOiTpOi 

CD .cOt-i .CNC^ .cOi-< .^rco 

b-i-<oocNt^"*OC^Trlr^iOco 

lO ^ CO ^ 10 i>.io 



t^ CO CO 1-1 O 



IM CO tP rH CO i-( O lO (N O CN t^ O CO CD Oi Oi CO CO i-H ^ Ir^ i-l CD IM CO O '^ "^ >0 ■'Ji rtt Oi lO 



—IT^CD .T-4 



CJlCS 0> .--H 



CDCOOH> OlO IN CO (N CO CD (M '^ 



. .»o>o .1— lOi .or-- ._ 

CNOOOOT-lOOOiCOT-HiOO-^ Oii-HCO 



t^ CD O 10 "* C^ i« 
CO l^ O .CO .01 



t^MiOcOcO"*OiCO 
(M'^t^CO'^iOCOi-H 



. J^ -- - 

CO r- 

"* »oco* 



OI>-cDcDCOOrHiOOCOcDCO"^ 

CD .r-t^ . .-H 'rfi . O CO .^CO 

I^O'*OOiOcDI>.CDOTrt--TH 

co'^co" r-T'*" c^'i-T cTi-h' 



CON -H 



. COtji CO 

CO CO tN '^ 

00 of 




y • • Tj fl P! d ® ri 

o • Ca Cli on OD <ii r <D 

^ oC: o <» o © c? <i> 



© C3 C3 S c3 ^=^ 

PtfO«gg- 

t-( >■ — 



■g ai o o w^ 



^ N CO -^ »C CD t>- 00 05 O --H (M CO -^ »0 CD t^OO 



1-H IM CM <N <N (N CM C^ <N (N N CO CO CO 



STATISTICS. 



67 



COlMi-HC^iOCS COCC-I ijf5t-*CC—(Oi-lOi»OOOOOTrcOt^ C^CiOOCO^OC 



iO r* CO . O <:D 



Qi ,-) Ol CS i-( 



•O rH CMC*t^ 






oo»o c<< .10 o 



COCOO i:0O00f0>O>i«t^O»QC0^»or^^ COOOtoOCO-^OO 



T-H T-1 r^- CD 



. t-»cc o o 



. U3 O 00 C^ -— t O O 



e^e^CO rH 



^ 












to 





r-000 rHCS|,-(OCO 

.00 . . CO 'V 00 -^ 



(N O O 00 lO 00 O CO '-» O O to 



10 CO CO CO C^ -^e© 



o cs c^?©^ 



t* rH CD t^ CO '^ »H CD O 



CD Cl CO C^ 00 



l^ Cft O (MO 
-, -. CO tN 



01 CD CO -^ «-! 00 Tt^ C<l O CO t- O C 

i-icr>CS . Oi 00 .OS . .t^-^c: 



00 1- r-t 



- CO <N .--j .-H i-H CD . -:r rP ^':) W 1-) 



00 1-H CjOcO CO 
. rf rj< ^'^ W . 

rH . . CSOO 



t^ 10 CD "^ CO --€© 



CDO 
CD . 
C^ CO 



00 i-( r^ O M* lO CO "^ CO CD OS CD O lO 



10 00 t^ .10 to 



OiC^OiOCOiOiO CSOOiOO-Tj^ioOOrHOl 1-H 



CD i-H (M CO 1-1 



a^ ot> -^ c::) Oi G t^ 

-, b^ TP CD 



00 OS O Ci 
. O t-O 



O t-O CD rH 



O .-H 01 O COOS 



COrHOO 

.00 . 

CO tH 



T-H(N<N O ^ 
.'^ rr O 10 

00 to ^ 



-r iO CO "^ b* 
o to . . 

- -. '^ CO 

00 (N e^e^ 



GO^HOO'^t^OOO 
. CD O to CD O CS 



00 CO CO -<^E, 



■'C^ t-OO OSON 



CD coco .r^io 



^^C0CM0lC-1C0'^O'-tC0t~-.(N.^ 

.OStoOO-^t-l .OOOStOCO.— (CO-^ 
OS TP <N CO CD CM . • 

CD ^e^ i-H - ^ 00 CD 
ffO THr^ «^e^ 



cooooocooo«o 

• CO CD O O rH to t^ 
CD . . O CO t^ 
to -J' CO -> -s 

€^e^tOi-i 



CO CO COOS rH O 
rH '^ t-- . . . 
b- CD O Oi to 



^lOCM tOWi 



CO to OS CO CO c^ 



jr^-ThtoostocMOiot^Oi— I 

CO i-H CD t^ O . . 

00 cS''S m ^ 



tob- CO 

CO CM 

-^ 

^^Ei to 



. OS O t- '^ 

-^ . . 

CO CM^ 



OOOsOsiOOS'^ tHCOCO 



CO O 'X> . to OS 



C<lrHCMCDt-^CDIr^rHC^'*^t^tOC<J 



r^ rH ■* 00 rH OS tN 

CO CO CO '■^ 



OS OS O W CM 00 Tji 



00 OS 1^0 CM 



-^ CO OS "^r CO -^^ 



CD CDO OS CM 00 

00 uO CO . CO CD . i-H 



t>-COO 
CDrHO 



TfCOOOI^'^CMt^'-''-<OOOOsCM OCMOsOOrHOcO 
-- ■ - — -CDOSOiOi— (COOO .COOOOCM-^O'^ 



) CM to »-H ' 



00 to CO t 



01 to ^e^ 



©&6^CM »H 



h- CO rH 00 CD OS 



OStoOi— ICMOO"— <toCMCMOCM>0 rHt^'^CMCOTj<0^-llO"^ 



. i-H too tOCM 



OS 1-H CO to ■^ CD ■■ 



, CM 00 'T' CC >-4 CM O 



CO O O 00 CD - *. 



si 

h § 
§•- i 

■a S 
a * 

So 

9 e 



c3 ® p c3 ® <1^ ^ 



l^sli 



© CO 

ca © 

•o >*» 
00 

So 



to 



a ® ? 



. c3 ca 



, 03. 



I'S'S, 



_§'3 



_ JSoS 
J o £ o tj 



o i: >:i i: ii ^ « 



r3 sa 



00; 



rH O) OJ >i Oi 
^ -^' -^ ^ ^ 

gig Ss a 
t^ So 3 a c3 3 
<1 iJ2;^ ;z; 



uS® 



73 S" 

i ® "-C3 

J'"" is P 
03 ? 5 
0) "^ o 






t3 
g2£o 

c c ag 
S m ffi g 

O ^ >^ (D 

PhWHPm 



:3 

^ ^ g s ■?, 

000:3^ 



•gaooafe 

m 3 3 c3 > 3 



SB 
S3 :_;j:^ 



— 3 tj:C g 
o a q"""^ 

fl tH 3'o'o "^ 
S ffl o t. t. o 
3 l>.>3 3 C-w 



C^O^H M CO-" 



to r^co 



oo'^iO'-or-oooo^iN 

0^«DOOtOtCt>"t^''- 



58 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



O 



o> .g 



CQ 



«3 Cud 13 



to 






33 






wO 



OQ c3 






C3 fl 
O 3 



A o 



OOSlOCOTt^O i-HCO lOiCODiOT-HOl-^OcOOOOOOiOOO CCOiOiC^OOOOO 



(NO -CD . lO 



t^CC .lOUO .000 -OiO _, .... - 

rH COOJQOcDMOiOOO"*'— I'fO iOCCC^l i0»00 



OO ^ r^ 0000 00 '^ O CM O (N O lO O: CO 00^ tO cO cD CM ^ O Oi o o ro • 



-. ^ ^ ^00 -, -V -to 

GO !0 <N lO 00 O 00 



CM lO . CD O . 00 O 



lO . o t-- 



i-< CO OCTJC^OOt-^OO'T'COiO^uD CMOiO 



,-1 C^ Olt-H 



'^fiOOSOOCOiM.-llCi 
CO 00 -^ .CO • '^ • 

lO lO c:i <-i o "^ r- 

^ ^ ^,-1 -.00 

CO Tf ,— I Tf 



00 CO '^ ■ 



oi-co . 



or-^ 



■^ 05 1-H CO '^ CO coos C<1 »0 CO OiO o> -^ O 1-H <o o o o t^ 



CO o . r-i 

u:)CMOi 't'cO 



"Tf O lO CO '^ o 
00 r-i . Oi . CS 
I- (M Oi CM -^ 



lOCO .OCO -OOO .OCO .Ci»-1 .0*0 o:» 
1— I -^ CO CO O 00 00 00 C5 CM CO -^ "^ O Ol "Tf CM t 



o 00 t— "^ •-< r- o -^ -^ "-H 00 C3 CO 00 co O oo i-h ^o co co 

-*i-4 .l-CO .-^(M .<MCM .T-Hr-t .Oi-I (Mf . 

lO Oi CM 1-H OS CN 1-1 t^ COOOi O Oi C<» r-4 Oi 



CO lOWCD 
-co 'lO 

OOCM"^ 



0»0 CMr-OiCO.— icOCi'-<iOCaOt-»Ot-- ^1^- 

es»t- ,-t Tt< .oo .1^00 . o ■* . -ff ■-+1 . >-f 

CM CO O O CO Ci O CO OS 1-1 '^ CM 1-1 -^ r-i 

00 ,. ^,-1 ^ -^ ^ > ^ t^ ^ 

00 r-l t- rH C^l TP CO CO 



-^ 05 OO 1-1 1-) OO t^lC Ol Oi CO CM CO .-« Ci CO t^ C^l CM CM O O O i-i Oi 



o n* .o -cfl 1-100 *Or-i 



■ -^ Oi . CM »C . iO CO . lO l>- 



T— I cOOOiO'-'jOJCsl^i— (O^CM 



lO - CM - i-( 



1-1 CM CM 



O -^ lO tO i-< C0 1— I lO 00 CM 00 1-1 CO o t^ r^ i>- oo -^ 05 CO 1— ( 1— I o:> o CO OS 1— I CO o lo cm t-- co 



C<1 OO CO .00 . C5 

,-1 iO lO lO 



I--* .CO -00 coo lOcO .lOO 



OCMCO^Cli-'OO-^iO 



-C^T-l .00 t-- 



.-I CM .-ii:Ol-COCOCOCMI>-iCI>-»Ot-l OOii-l 
l^ ^ -,.—1 ^ -,.-1 -. - - CO - 



CM y-i 



I 



c<icoo5co-^i-ir^i-t 

Ococo . .CO . 

CSO^ CO ooco 



t^Ot^i>-Ocor^CM 

"(J^ lOOi . •* . r-l . 
O500 O Ot^ 00 

-, -V -s05 

CM CM CM 



CO>COr-»OcO Ol CO lO 'Tt^ CM 00 00 CO Oi 00 i-< 00 CO 1-1 "^ CO 



CM CO 00 wo lO rH 



t^Oi . CO -^ 



' t-^ CO »H UO 00 O 



. C^ CJl .OcO . CO 05 CM 00 



1-1 COOr-t-^l— O-^OOCMlOCDC^ TTi-l 

OO -. -M-1 .s -1-1 - 



CMcOCl-^^OCO C^r^ t^ 05 0> CO '^ t^ CO OS CM 'T CO O lO CO OOOOiO 



.CO .tH C<|00 CO 



CM^iOCMcO 



-_..-< lO . O CO _. - 

CM OS CM Oi 00 CM Oi .-) CO "* O i-i O 
lO - - ., ^ t^ ^ 



lOO'^ic CO -^ uo CM o "^ CO CO r^ -* CO as Ci 1-1 CM OO o oo 



. lO .CO "*!>• 0<i ..-too 



i-H O t^ CO OJ lO CO 00 C 

CO •- — I - -^r-i 

OOi-i 00^ c 



J CO . 1^ CM 



VL^ tjj ■;!_' . t.^ . c^j . t.^ f J 'J-' . v^j . 1 

oO'^coOf-HOOr^i-^^cOi-icoiO 



OOoco"^co^r^Oit~-ocMif:i^- 

kO CO . CO 1—1 . 1— ( 00 . »0 O . h- "^ 
CM CO coo CM to lOO t^C0»O CM lO 

ccTcm" Tj^i-T lo" coco' 



OCMcOtCOiOOl>- 

"^OCOOO "~O00oi 
- - - -.00 

lO ''t 1-1 CO 



ft 

03 t> 



P fl o 



Tj fl g, Pi 0, a 



O ^ C^ lO '^ 0:> T-t T^ CO 05 C<) CO O CO 00 CM CO -^ CD lO CO CO or^o^ 



^ Oi -co 

'<t< ocMcor^ 



._ .. .-s'ai .ooco .oocM - 

y-i r-t CM O CO lO CI •* Tji GO CO 00 rr C^ t^ 00 CO 
1— t I— < OS ^-1 CO »0 M* CO 



la 






o.K o g g S 



O " d W-" m 



p^ 



aaa 

W (-1 f^ 






o o 

^BB '. 

cc o O ' 



■sort 
82<s 

M j^ 03 

aJ So 
" a J2 

lis 

o o'-'Si 

O O o l-i 



C3 

<u 

C3 
"SO 

^ c3 

"-^ a- 

'Co 

O'"' . 

ssg 



Oo 

S.2fe 



.o.aS 
(3 c3 3 a 

C o ®i; 



o^^E-3 






®i2 

F^ O 



4^ d 
a ® 
« d 

as 



^ — s ^ — S §) 



'^ S o H 

O u TT 



5 

© 0) ■ 



o d g >• 
o K Q ft 



oo 



<S1 



t» O 



a 

^V. d « 



f-H c^ CO -<i* »o -^o t^ cx) 05 o ^ c^ CO -^ »o CO r^ oo 



2S 



»-< CM CO *^ »o CO b- CO o> o 1-1 c^ co-^iocor*oo 

C^CMCMCMC^CMCMCMC^eOCCCO COCOCCCOCOCO 



STATISTICS. 



59 



- - CO 



CDtM lO « »-t 

O T-l lO 



..— icci— iioi-i .r>-t-*t^Oi-<oo 

CD t-l 00 »-H »H " 



O'-HCIOCCCOOOO 

. f-H o o cc aj o CO 



^cD e^e*& 



00 CD »o -n* CO -^e^ 



■^CDOO .COt^ .lO . 
■^ O CO t^ 00 rH Tji 



CD Oi 00 r^ CO CO Oi 1— I f^ C^ IN O lO rH O Tj< O O CD CD O CO 

• CDCOCDOO .CD»OCOt— i-Hi-H<M .OOrHOCO.— (TfCO 

lOi-l t--CO ^-( OCD .. OJ..0000 f-li-* 



CO Ci T-H --H ©^e^CSiCS (N 



WOC^I>-C0CD-^0i»0 "^OOOOtiO-^OiOOClC^OOOOOi— t lOCOC^OOt— oo 

.-(T-iO .t— CD .«-H . .0"^Or-i.-i .CD*OiOCD<NOi^ .»-h.-hO«"j OO 

C^asCOtN OOi-lCD 05i-( t^d <N 00^ .. CO-.-^iO I— r-i 

- " t- »0 QO CD -^^ ^^ ^-^COiO IN.iO'* -.©& 



»0*00»0<:DiO(Ni-lOO N'Tt^COOiN 



OOOO^iO<-HO _- 

COOi-HOJCSJCOCO -I-^COOfC 

r-t t^ O . . O . . 

- ^ t-- CD lO CO CO 



lO O 00 "^ O IQ 



COOi-H CD lO OD C^ CS C<) O t^ CO O 1-H t-( Cl CO ^-t cD CO O 00 



c^ »o ^ ©E* 



TT CO 00 CO C4 



Oi-lOi t*00 t^OOOS Nt-1-H- 

SiO .03 . O . . CO CO t 

O O ,-iOi-it^ t^ c 



rHOCOOThCOW (Nt^OSOTfC^CDOO 



CO t^ Ol OO CO Ol o 



. COOlO i-i i-H o 



-s CO CO ooco c<» 



- o r^ CD CO 



< CO tH C^ I-H CO <M OS ,-1 00 00 Ol Id c 



lO "<r ^H . CD CO .CO 



. 1-H •<»< 00 CD .-< 



t^ i-(i-H C5 I-H i-l CO 



i-(^i-HCO^t^<NI^ 

. t^ 00 05 O »-r -^ CD 
O CO '^ . . 

1-1 ^ .^ Oi »0 



COl-^i-iOOi-lOCvi 
-- -3000 CSt^CO 



.lO lO CO 



NCqOiOOOCqoOOOf-t COOOrf^-r 



goes CO -coco. 



.Cq COOSOi 



lO CO lO 



CDr-i COi-H 



W O "»?' CO CO O lO 

cs) o 5; t-^ CO 00 <N 



CO . . 

00 CO CM 



0>t-C^CDCSOT-lOC0 OOl^OO' 
t^ CO ^H • l> 00 , ~ 



t- lO CO 



.C4C0CO uo 

CD I-H ,-H 



OCOcDCSiO'N'^ C^I^OOOC^ 



CO 05 CO '5' "N O O 



. 00 r-- o 00 



t^ ^ ©&€^ 



t^ lO lO CO (N -,€^ 



COtH -cOOCO CDCOOl»OCOO>t^OOcDcDCDC^Ot^ t^OOOOiOiOOO 
-05 • -O . •OS'^riOt^ . OS 05 '^ <N C^ lO W .'VCOOi-f O 00 



r-t 'CDt-I 






t- 00 

»o to 



P CO CO -^< " 



O -^ cDO -^ 05»0 t^»0 M'OOCOO'^ 
lOOOCO .t^cO .I-H - .CO"^COCO 

OOCO"*'^ QOi-lCD OO r-l CD IM 



^ CO 

CD 00 



lOCDOiOt^iCOcO 

. uocoooj Qor^ 
. . 00 . .or^ coc<» 

- t^ to t^ lO '**' •^©& -* 



cD»O»-<cDi-l00'^00O -rpI^OOwOcOt^'OOOOlOCi-^CS CS'OC^OOOcOOcOcOCO OS 



CD C^ CO 



. uo OO I— I CO "rr 



. CO »-H O 00 I-H O TT CD 



-.^ OOcD CD»0'*^.^ 

»o CO €^e^ e^^coi-H 



c33 ; 



^<N 

p 

go 

« be-, o o , 

^3 -2 5s Sc 



-2S 

-- _ ,^ Ol ^ 



OO w 

"^2 ^ 



! a 



;25; 



i'S ftg S S S 



^5s 



-^ -^ rtj -^ 



+;> <C 3 3 



p o 

we 



3^ oj a 

a cj^^rt— ° " " 

£■5 a ^c So c c 

SF "h ''^ °" 
t* o ajjg aj o G 0) 



oj 0) S 



C3 



2' 
■3'=^.g g g a 

nsa^ O o 3 

•^.ti.ti 3 fe S S 
M 3 s'S > 3 3 






: .2 .9 ■ ■ "^ 



o 



6/j cS ^ ^ O 

2 s-o o<^ 
o o I- 1-1 o 
>.t3 c o-« 



60 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 






CQ CI 









PQ.Q 



O CO 00 CO 00 



mg 

O 



5° 



Ttjo 



""el's 
sag 

<^8 



as 



o ^c^ oo 

o coo 



t^CSkOI^COCOOO-^ 
(N CO Ci . lO . O . 

t^ iM Tj- o o o a> 





-f 














lOiO "O 


lO 



1-H lO . »0 



CO CO .1—1 
- CM 



3CDOCOiOlOOOr-HOOC-lr-l 
> . QO -CM . O -r O . C5 
■00 O QC' O 'O O lO "^ l-^ 



00(NcOOiOOOOC> 
CO lO i-H lO 






OicDt-^COTpiOCDOi'^iOCqcOcO 
.O .»0 .O-^fO -O 



000cD<N0Cfli-«0' 



O (M fH 1-1 



CO CO CO .00 .CO . 

ci -^ -^ as o CM Ci 



CM 00 coo 
CO.-I .r^ 

OSCDO'^ 



THOr^COcoiO^CMCMCi-^ft^oO 



CM 00 CO .OS 



. OO CO CO . lO 



a>oooocM»-i^cooiajCMr-i-«^ 



CMClcDcDOOCOOOCOOJCOOO'^t^CM 
i-lOCl -C^l .CO -CMClOCM .CO 

CDOOOCMCO.-HCM-riOOcOOSCM 



.— lOii-H CO »o coti^r^ o 






^ G ^ 



3h^ 



4J 5^-4J ^4J 



©o^'DbjOd/K^ajd 



^^ 



<D 



o S 



O 1^ . o o 



(■^.-laiai^c^i-ieooi 

. t- CO . 00 Tt< . ^ c^ 

cC-^fiOOSdOCOO 

r-H .s ^ .sCD ^ 



CM-^i-HCOCMTt^CMcOOOSO 

. -^ CM . i-H CO . i-H T}< . -^ 

■rr'Gil>-"^C0t--CMOl'^Cl'^ 

CO - -co *. CM -. .-co -V 

b*CM CO -^CCi CO 



oooajioOTrcoc>oiocD.-Hooo5CMT-( 

CO 00 .coco . CO 00 . r-1 CO . CM o 
CICMOSCOCOCO'^CMOCOOCOCMOO 



t^COCMCRTfCDlOOOTt^m'^lOCDOO 
t-00 .1--10 .COOO .O0I-- .liOi-H 

t^ CO O CO CO Oi CO CDOOCMt^CM 



cooosoCi-ir^oor^CMcoososcsocMOiooiO 

COCM ,0:iOi .1— ICO .CMO .0000 Oi Oi • 

»0'=r»ocor-Ht^LOi>-ot-Oi'^ooo COCM** 

. .^ ^ ^ ^ y-i ^ ^CO *v .^ -S 

.-H CO LO 1-H r^ o to lo 1— I t^ 



lOCOt^cOOO-^i-HOSi-HCOCMCOCO 
O t^ . 'TP I* . CM CM .coo ."*CO 
O'^OOOCMt^iO^t^.-HCOt-tT-ir-i 

■^'" CO f-T cTt-T t-T 



jt^COOi— I00l-^>00'^»-Ht^'^0i-H 

.t^Crs .OGC .(-^-^ -.-ICO lOOi . 

DCDCOiOt'-.-^'^'^COi— I— iCM CM»0'**< 

^CO - - -._^i-H 



CO uo . t^ crs . O GC 



cDT-i-S^CMOOi-HOCMOOOOr-eOi-HCMCMiO 
O CD . ■^ CO .05CO . CO i-H . 1— I 05 O *— < • 
int^OCMiOiOt^t—OOO-^OCMt-^ CMOO 

1 -CM - ^ ,-, ^ ^-*}< .. -, 

COCM 00 •* <£>C0 O^T-t CO 



'.-(I— I'fCM-^r^ot-r^iOO'^'-ti— icoooic 
)oo .co^ .oo ■'^S— :I«92 "^S^^ 

>Tf'OCMCOiO»OCOCO"^OOOCMcO i— lOCO 



i^ ,-« rti 



coco CC 



t^rHCM'-pr^OC^.-liOOiOOOOt^OOr^CMOO 

OS f-H . o lo . o CO . n" CM . o <— 1 oo »-i -^ • 

CMOiOCD-^00ClCZ)05t00000Q0O»-t"^CMC0 



CO -—I -^ O t>- CJi 

1— I 00 O -^ Oi O 



1^ T_i CM 



' 9 O 

w o 
®J3 



m o <I> ^ [> 

id £f-3 i s ° 



§p<a . 
o ® ®i2, 

_© 03 c3 § ; 
•^ o o-g'i 

Q OT CO W ' 

n, c3 c3 Qj ; 
^ oo J3 ' 

m2 ° S ' 
£50 to § i 
" d B — <• 

S O O O I 



O O 3 » O J 



5 J3 



00 

s'SS 9' 
; sh oj o 

;pifM3; 

3 O 



c3 a 



S t>>- 



(M fits fl 
O "li i' 01 

sill 

-3 a; t^ 5 






22; t> 



■ a <u^ 

■ S ° 

:Ss5 

'•2 P t> 

a. g M 

m 3 <u 

: o S o p. 
>.C > a; 
0-" g 01 
o H Sj:; , 

•3 dc dS 

OlZlWPHfL, 



i-<c^cO'^»ocot^oocio^c^cO"^iocot^ocoo*-HC^cO"rriocor^oooi0^c<»co*<*<iocDr^oo 

,-(,-(^^^Hi-H^^Hrt^CS<N<M(MC^C^<MC^<NC^COCOCOCOCOCCCOCOCO 



STATISTICS. 



61 



- T-H -tT «3 t^ ,1-1 



Ol I- ^ . . . .05 . - --I ' ■ 

00 00 r^t--oo«3 lo -^ f-H 



OiO^^OcDfHiOfCOi— lOOO 

• ooi .i--ai •ooTj'ooSf-HO'-H 

r-t -, ^OO Tt^ C^ 00 oo cs -%»& -^ 

CO 00 e^€^ e©»90i cs 



■ CO 00 T-< CO C^ t^ '* "^ CO CO CO O 1-t Oi 1-H CO 1-1 O 00 t— O OS Tji lO 00 



. lOio -co lO "<*< 



t^ "^ CO C^ ,1—1 , OO t-- .coos . CO C^ lO CD »0 CO 



- -M-l ^ ^ <N - 



.1-1 lO lO 1-* 



CO 1-^ CM ^H (««^cO 



-^0'*^000(N-^(MOOCO— <»0 0'^0t— -^OCMCOOi— <O(N00O'rj*c0C0>0THC^C0 
•^COi— I . • • -CM . .CMCOCMCOC^ .1— t .(NrH .OStTi ..— l-^CDO-^O-rti OSO 



.^ CO CO CD "^ I'- "^ 



i-( -. .sco o r- 1^ 00 lO -*e^ 
'^ i-o t-H e^ &^ eo iO 



. lO CD 1-H T-H 



ai^oooco'^ooco-^OO'-H-H-rjHcoiO''*^ ocooOi-iocot^-rr^OcoosiOfN 



□0 00 lO iC -^ CO CM (N 

^O CO TJi Tj* CO "^ 



. CO Ci . OS CO . l^ 00 O I 

•o ■-• o o . . c-1 . . r- c 

CO •^ -.O I^ tCi !>• to CO -^^ 
O >0 ©^ €^ €^ ©^ CM 



»-i05MiOi-<iOOt^cOcO"t^»Oi— 'OiOCOC 



f-iOOOiOt^OSi— (01»OtM 

- .> ^lO CO lO CO CO -^ 



• Oi CO --< O CM 



COtPOSCOOOOcOCOOOO^OcOOCOCO'-I 

. o r^ ,•' '-^ '---'- ■ — -^ — . — 

1-1 i-iOi o 

CM -^ .^lO . _ 

1-1 o s^'^ «^ep^QO 

CO CO c:> 



l^CO .COI^-Oi-ICDCMOS .-(O 
_ . . CO . . Ol l^ "V CO . 

lO 00 >o CO lo ro .nS*^ .s Oi 



^ 



OOOOOi-HTjir-lCM'^COt^i-iiOOOS-^OOCO -^CMiOOOOSCOcOCOCOOiOOOO^-t-HOO' 



3 1^ Tt<uotOOir-icOO 
CO CO lO CO CO ^ 



.lOCMOOOi .1-4 .cOOO .CMr-i ,l^t— OO CDCO C^CO 



1-1 ^ r^ 



lOCOi— lO . . 

CM -N -vC-1 CO 00 iC t^ -r -€ 

r-, lO ^ i^ €^ s% CO 

tH ©^ <© CM 



^-^-oo^'I:^ooo^--»oor^|•^ooso lOooooo-^ci-^-rcoooscocor^coono 



COOOOOOOr^CsCMf-H'COCM 
.>*. COCOCO"^ 00»O 



4 .^ .%CM CO 00 CO CO lO *. -. 
CC 1-1 1-H €© €^a&CMi-( 

1-t CO €© o e© 



. -^ CM O tN !>■ CM !>. 00 00 

. QO CO CD 



C0c0 0i-<i0c00i— (CMOiOi-HOOcO-^t^ 



JCOt^OCO^CMOlO^H' 



O CM CD CD t^ CO 1 



..— t . ..-HCOCCiC/D ,-M .C/jLO .CStt .OOC 



OiO lO CM CO CO 



-r-HCM Ol-« OOt-I 



J O iOi-i OS 00 



tH -. -^Tji O >0 to lO CM 



CO 1-1 €^ 



€^e^c-i 1-4 



CMCOOS-^t-iO-^r^i-icOOSOS'^ir^t^O"^ Oi-<CMt^ 



>0 CM -T -O O O t^ 1-1 CO CO 



CMt^'*CMCO'OOS,-li-(( 

-. .^ 00 00 t^ rp CM I 



, O CS . CM (•- . lO i-H !•- O CD O Cq 
-ir^or^ . .o , .lOco OO 

^ ^r-i ^C-l^OOlO ^-, -s 

M Tji CM 1—1 «^«^0CCO tH 



iOCOr--cOCMOOOrfiOCOOOOOt^CD 

CO C/3 '^ . . . .CO . . I>- CO lO o 

0000O'VCDOt--,-ICDOt- CMCM 

- ^ -.CO CO CD CO 00 lO - *.«& 



iiOI^-OOO'-lOO^ti'rji'rfOCMCsr^-^ 
H t^Q lO C-H>CD CM C" 

.OiosO ^ CMOO 



.C^CO .'tji,— ir--o»OC-H>CDCMOO 



-. .nCM "^ CC CO »0 CO -*9 

-i Gr> 1-1 eft €^4^1- ■ 



CM 1-i 



fl o 



_,'d^CM 



- ^J2^ 

^■O Ir-j'O J5 O O 

j:: i^ci t: G o o o -. 



o be 






> S:, o a « a 

- t-,-^ o y o 

; r> O O Jh O) 



:|as 

•3 2 2 



^ o gg 

C3 2 >-. tH 

S ^- 3 ^ 

o o c S 



03^ 



a1 <N <D 

2o§ 



^_aj^ 



T3 >2_ 

-^ ~^ - T} Si — 
P< ft trsi si O oJ:^ 

'g'3'Sfl a o £,fe 
:^Xa3s3c3>d 






.a1 



c/3 CP 



S g f -S-S 
a g 3 o o 



01 O 1— < CM CO - 
CO "^ '^ "^ ■^ ■- 



>0 CO r- 00 05 O ^ CM CO -rt* 10 CD r- 00 OS O '-^ CM CO '^ 10 CD t>- 00 OS O T-H CM 
■^■^■^■^TpioiOiOOu^iOiO »0iO>Oc0COc0cOC0C0C0C0cOC0t^l^l"^ 



62 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAISr MOUNTAINS. 



8 -S 



OQ 



h3 



K" 



05 



^O 






So 



i;5 ^ 

Oq 



O*^<NOi000Oi>- 
'^ (M 10 .00 .00 . 



tH o o . t^ . -V' . 
CO O C<] -^ i-H Ci iO 



t^OOOiCOTfr-HQOO 
CO O CO . . 00 - 

Oi CO Ci O 10 O 



o !>■ or* O 



COOOtO»OOi-lOOOO 
M O lO - T-H .00 - 
CD 00 t-O O t^ W 



00l>. CO -^ 



CO (N(N TT 



T-iOiC^COOt^OiiO'^t--.CO"^iO 
O .-H CO . C^ . C3 . O 00 GO -CO 

.. -, ^ -.00 - -. c^ 

00 --C' i-H O IQ CS 



O iO >c> 10 cs 

00 -T' CO . ^H 

"^ O "^ o 



OiOi . . 00 . 

1-H T-l O O T-(Ol 



i-H 00 -r^ . Oi 



OOOOO^^OCOC-lCO 
000 . (M . t^ . 
-* 10 Oi "^ O '^ CO 






58 g 



-2 >2 

■sis 

o.ti ai5';3 

1 a d a • 

I'S o.C o c3 

J O 1> C3 (3; fcH 



(35 (NWO 



^0^ 

^.-a 
•■5 a 



„ .g 

ci 
St. ;- 

m ® "^ 






tOCOTjir-OCiOcOC^OCst>-OiOCO'^COOO 
OCO .cOOO .Tjn:o .COCO .i-hM C^CD . 
COCOOrJ^OCiOSCOf-it^t'-iOOrH tTi-hcO 



OCO . CO 00 
CD CO 10 C>'3 



i-H „^ -CD -. 



'^OSCOCOCOOOIOOOSI^'^C^'-HC 
O0(M .CN»0 .COCD .(Nrr .OOi; 
Ol CO 00 I>- CM CO C^ '<ri^T-HcOO 



csi-iootN-cor^iocooocDOiTrcocD 

■^O ."-hM .00 .QCO .TPO 
00"^OCii-i00r-TfC0»OCS05O»-( 
-s -.CO -^ -CS -. CM -. 



"I-H COl-H ^ 



t^t-T-iOcDOi0r^O5.-HCMC<l'<r00i— iiCt--^ 
^^ -coo .TP.-t •cD'-t .-*cO C<»CO . 
O <-! 10 CO 00 -^ CM O 05 ''T CD "0 CO C*^ CD O 

* -.1-1 -^ .sl-l - -. -J> - 



i-lCM00<-HOi-HlOOiC^00ait-00i-l 
»jO Tf . O CO .CMCO .coco .OS'* 
CMi-HCOt^OiC^C5CMOiCMO<-<OOi-i 



'*t^OQOOir»iCOOCOt^'*t^OCM>OCM-* 
CMtH .CMrH .OiO .1^^ .CMCM lOO . 

CD O t^ »— < CD ■'T 05 .— t CO O CD lO CO CO r- 1-H 

-^i-h" CO CO lO^CO" Co" CO*" 



i-*.-iCMOOcDOCi00cDi-H»Ot--"^T-40lOC^ 
C<l ^ .000 .OCO .-^CC .»OCM CO CM - 

cDoi^t^co»ooo3cooooi-Ha 

- -.CM - -.^ -^ '-i _- -^ - 



HOJ thCMCM 



CDOOSOOCDt^i— ICDt^05'rf*t--.CDG0C^O'^i-H 
too . »o -— < . O <-< .^Q .00 Oi ffi . 
OCM'-nrrOOOOCMiOCOO'^OOi— I OCM 

-^ -si— I .^ -r-l - ^ -r^ - 

O 1-1 05 «-< CO 10 TP CO "* 



t^CD-<!t«C0C<»"^OOO^'-t00.-4 
rr i-( . CO •-( -QO .l>-»0 .10 
OSOS»OOiOi*OW3CMOOcO^HiOi— I 
-. rH .* i-H - -v -00 - 

«;> lO CM COCO CO 



t^cDaiC0r^I>.COiCCMOlCMcD'-H^ 

COCO - ai »o - •— I -— I .coco . M' c* 



i-( CM i-iCM 



^CD r-HCTi — I 



UDCOCDCD'^OCOeoCMi-lOOrH'^- 
CMCD . 00 CO .^':0 . Oi '^ . 00 C 
CDt^COi-<COOOt^.-HCi"*Tf"CCOC 

.s ^H -. .K - ..to - 

»0 "* 1— t CM 1-1 1— I 



■ «T3 

o a 

O C3 



'^-^ O ' - -- 
*^ *-< b fS *H I 

0?^ 



_ ft£ 

03 S c3 3 
(-.is »- c^ 
3^ D w 

<1 



32 - 
ij o ^ o o 

i O w w 

o C >- >-. 

O ftg g 

2 "00 <s 
'^ — '5 f^ "^ '*^ 3 

03 ^ ^<DcO o 

§o§S§o 
p t| " ;: r ! 

fS-S o-q-3-5 S-3P3 



C3 CO 

.■3 a; 



Qi-i aj 

3 c3 ■ 






PiP-C 






S <3 

3 o 



S.2fe 



2«sa 

C o 2 ® 2 

3 fl'p 33 

S2i*§ 
Ph 3 § d S fe 

p^k:z;^o5 



a o M 

W 2 " Cf 

-^3-3 a> 

■0-- o 

h-9 I-, 



'-HWCCrr>OOt^OOOsO^H(NC^'^»OOt^OOaiO^HCNCO*^»05Dt^00050»-tC^CO'^lOcDt^CO 
,_(^^^^rHt-H^f-HFHC^W(NC*ICSWC^C<»C«C<ICOeQCCCOWCOCOCOCO 



STATISTICS. 



63 



C^rPCOC^OiCCCOOiOO<NC^cDCO<-HOOO"^ t^-^C^OliCI^i— it^tNOO'^Ou^ii-^OiOS 



CO CS 00 t^ CO CO r-< O CO T-H 



.0»0(N Oi-H .i-l 



I— t - -co O O lO ' 



.0001 CO 



CO i-H e^€^ €^©^00^ 



C<J t^ lO l> M lO -^ CSJ T-H 05 'rr O Oi C<» ':0 <r> Tt* OCOOOOfMiO oot 
lO ^H CO • • • '^ • . ■*»* (M "^ itO . . lyr^ a> . m .— I .c 

r-r- lo CO lo CO *-H o c^ 



?0 CD lO •<3< CO lO 



"^ O t- 00 < 






osoo«-ioot^Oi-ic^cor^co2'J5'-*J>'C)0 cDC^-rtHicoioor-ooMoot^io^H^co 



r^cDi-i(Ncovoo«-HOOco 

i^)?© ^CO CO CO 



^i-H (N 00 



.Tf CO . -^ t^ 'tr ( 



OOCO Tt* CO 



. _ -co h- CO t^ iC C^ -6 



C«4cpcOiOOO'^C^COt^r-i^OQ'-i05CO<N 

LOO-^ . . . .o . .-^cocoo .-^ 

■^COt— Ii-Hf— i'^cOi-<C^t^'— I O-— ' CO 

-.- COCDO'^ cO-^ -«^ 
coco g^ 



■^OSi-H.— lOicOi— «.— lO-— 'iCOcOiCOCl 



Ci o ':*::; '-' . . '* 



O0c0i00»-I>00 iCCO 



-r- lO Tf 00 "^ CO -c 



>Or-HC<»OOCOCOi:C''<J'cOiOcOiO'-il^CO I>OOCOC^OOO'^h-cOOOO:iOC<ICOC 



O 05 CD CO CO r^ 1-H -"S* CO 

- -s CO CO CO ■^ r* lO 



. 05 lO . CO 00 



3 lO -^ 00 1— 1 lO O 



1 -^ -co O CD CO CO -^ 



'♦rC^MiOtMOr-HCOC^OcOiOtr-OOiCOSO^ 
lO CO C: . . . .CM . . O CO lO »0 .CO 

CO 1-H i-H Tf UO O <M rH i-H CO i-H CO (N "^ 



- - CO CO CD "^ 



OCiO^OC^cOiOCOcDiO-^i— iiOh- 

. "* M . -r-- — 

i-HCDiN 00 



. r- 1 CO (N CO »-H CO 00 



CO - -co ^^ r^ CD t- -^ -s 
<N CD 1-1 e^ «^€©0 



NfOOiC^NOcDOCMcDCC' 
t>-cDO . . . .O . .t^i 

t^N»oc<icoior-i-iCMt^i-< 

.> •s CO cD lO CO coco 



' Tf 05 o o o> 



4 »o t^ lO CM o "<i* r 



-»0 CD CO t^ "^ CM 



"t'OCMOOOOCMOOCO 

O O CO CO 

COCM CM . 



.CMt^ .COCDOOO OO 



t- CM e^«4 



ClCOCOCOCOi-HOCMoOOl.-icO'^QOCMOOTt* CDiOi-Hi-HOOr 
cOCOCO . . . .O . ..-•CO'-'CM .-^ '^O-^ .COC 



•^ CO 1— I 1— ' >— < t— CO '— < CM CD rH CM 1-* rH O tO 00 CO 



■< -rt< O CO ^-t O O 
5CDOO OO 



CO CO CD '^ CD '<*' 



-t^ -^ CO 00 CO CM 



.CO CM i-HtH 



r*CMcc-^o»ocooocs»GO 

, -^ . , t^ "^ lO TT 1-H . rH 
r^i-t CM CO 00 CM ^ 



l> CO CM CO CT) r^ 



■^ 00 CM t^ "^ -^ 00 

CO "^ ^ 00 lO 00 

V -co Cl 00 LC lO -^ -&^ 

1— 1 05 e©e^ e^€©h- 



i0.-H^i0i0c00i'^Tr00--t00c0CM"^t--O 



r^ r- CD CD 1-H o CM 
CD CO CO "^ Oi CO 



. -^ CM ^ cq . 1-t 



CO.-4COt^O*CM05COr-OcO>OOOCMOGO 

. --r CO . CO Oi . t^ CO O O OO CM rH 

■^CM-f^CO . .r- . .lOCO lOi-H "-H . 

CM - -cc 1-H r- CO r- lo -Q& t^ 



COiTHOOilXDi-lt^C'DC^'^'-^COOOOiO 
f CO O . . . . ■^ ■ .-TtiCOiOlO 

OOcDCMOOOOOlCOi-H^t^ CD CI 



Ci CM CO '^ O O 00 " 
.CM t^ . CM »0 




5O^C^C0'^>0cDt^C0ClO'-HCMc0'^»0cD r-Q005O'-<CMC0't*>OcDr^0003O<-tCM 

co-^'n'-^'^'n'-^'^'^rr'^uoiooiOiOiOiO io*o«ococococococococDcOcot^t--£> 



64 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



Q -Z 



^ 



CQ 






11 



«.§o 



25 






® a 
^8 



a> ri 

o g g 

S o o 



tP'^O:!':© O C^ CO .— I (N OS Oi O 
Tt< O CO o o ooc^ 

<NCN (N 1-1 



-* CO — H O CC "O CO 



cDcDOOoco»-f:>05i^c;i:^"^cc 

-^—ico .C^ .C^ .OCCO .CO 
(NCOOit^ O'-t^QC'rj'Xr~-C0 



lOt^OO-^i-H 

1— 1 tO CO Oi 



^ CD 



t^i— tcD(NCO(NCO(M 

^ 00 o . c*a • o . 

i-( oil— I 00 O O 1— t 
- - ►, -05 

■^ W .— I (M 



i-ICOCOCO00C0W»-H 
(M«0 .'H* Tib . 
Xi^ (N i-H O -^ 00 



CD CO 



t~^ 00 00 -CD . f^ . C) CD CD . 
■^ 'I' Ol CO O C^ ^ C'l O »-C CO 



iO,-f*iO.-i 



t^cD.— it-*C0»O»CO5 
CD -^ (M , O .CO . 

f-HOl'M'^i— lOCOCO 



? rt :S 
ct; 3 ®"^ 

•a H p fl a> O . 

;s o PL, Pq ^ ^ Ph t3 K 



1^ r^ cx)0> 

CD O . ^H 



3o3 

© c3 ^. 



Cit^'^CSlO'Mt^OOt^U^OOcDOOOC^I 
OilM .i-tt>- .'^■^ .l^cD .t^Ol 

a>(MC^C5cojsoO'^t^(Mc<icoTt<r- 

- -.^ ^ ^ fc - -co - 



»OcD0000t^M<C^0000GCCO'*'-«'Mr0 

lOO .1— loi .Oioo -cnco .rM.-< 

f-HC^t^C^OCOCD-^COCOOCOOO 



^-iM»rD(MOOcOCOOOl»OiOaiCO<N 



-lO . i-H CN 



I-- O . I>- Oi 



OlCOC^COOOOOCCiOOO'Tt-OOCO 



CCCO'O.-HCDCOiOfMOO^'— <C:cD»Oi— t 



O CO . 1— lO 






■( O .-< '^ CO CO CO 



r^C^i-Hl>'i-lT-lI^(MOlOO(M'^.-(i-HT 
— ( O .OO . -^ CO . »-< lO . o: CO 
Oi-<00i500t^C0'<1i05'^CD(MTf,-t 



CDf-HOOi-Ht^Oi-^t-^OCCOCOCO"^"^ 
CO(N .OC* .»OCM .'M'* .CDCC 
C0.-40'«:}^XOOCO(NCOCO(MJ^O<— I 

o".-r cT co" ■Tp'co' co" 



OOiOiOC^OODClCOClCOOi— I'tcDtNiCiOtM 
coio .o^o .COI-- .coco ."^CC COCD . 



Ji-HOlOC<I(MC0»0T-(00C0t 



—i rH M 



CO'*0005iOOOOC"-COt^T-H(MiO»-4Tt<i-iCO 
OJ CD .coo . "^ CD . -^ "^ . 00 CO I— ( CO . 

t-^oOi— i'^(Mo:iC-icocotj*ociOi-ico ooo 

« ^rH ^ ^ - - -co ». 

ii^ r^ CC 1— I lO r^ -rt* -^ "^ 



T}<T-i'^OOCOCO>-HCO'-HfOCO'— 'C-lC^C-liOcO 

r^oo .ccco .coi-H .t-io .T-"-^ (Mt-- . 

(MTrOOCDCOiOCOC-lcDt— ■CDTft-- .-10110 



y-t ^ Wt ^ -»0 



CDOCOC^CCiOC^i— 1»— tC-l^OI~*0tn— iiOt-ioO 

ooi .coco .-^oi ^cccci -r^o coc^ . 

^cDO'V'^COt^OlOiOO'MOO r-iO 

^ „,_( - -. -. -CD - - 

X-T-liM "^ CD'^CO'-* '^ 



g-oK 



'ssa 



^2 



6^2 
>« o 6 

<" ? g 



O o 

ftgg few's 
Too^ j3 is 

>-.c-i OJ O o 2 

S e 

— ii 

3 Se o'3, 

o O O 3 <B O 

mP^Mz;^fL, 



Pi S tn 



iSSoogi 



feS.2 



o 

Pk 



2 sal 

~ O -M ■" ^ ^. 
rt !5 fl P P c « 



111? 



p^aj;z;;So2;wp^p-i 



'fer^f; 



1— l(NirO*»*'»Oi:Ot^OCC^O^H(M( 



Hi-c.-lrHr-<C)(M(MIM<M(MC^C4C<l(NCO«lC<5CCCOCOCO«>tO 



STATISTICS. 



65 



01-*iO . . . .CO . .COCO»OCOCO.|-I -COI^ .OOiO . " 

W3 o "5 00 r^ O CO i-H O f* --i lOrN o .-iTfoocD - ..-h 



COC^4 OO-— I 



- CO -— I t- l> CO lO -x6^ 



ocq •» 



i-(;0iO00O'^00C0C0iCC?C^i-'t^^^O4OOiO5(N 

(NQOCO . . - . W5 . . CD ^ ^' 

OOiO(MOCOi-Hrt<^COOOC^J 



.CD tHGO"* I> 



C-l l^ . l^ t* . CD t^ O luD O O '■ 



^ 1— I CO '^i O CO -. 



CO CO «^e^ 



t^^c000C^CC"^iOC^t^<N0QiCO00C0'-li-((Nt~-t>00T-i'»riO»OO<NCMO0> -cOC 

■^l^'iO . . . .<N . .USC^oOCO .1—1 .OiiN .Oi.-H .f-Hr-iOOS'-iCO'-i -Oc 

00»OC^r^C0t^Oi»HC^«O OiC^ »0 1— i^tri'-I^ . .00 . .COt^ (N 'rH 

lOOCO^l t>-CO -vC© 1-H C^ -. -co CO r- iC GO -^ ->«& • c 



O^H0S0iC<»C0'^(MT-i-*J4^OOC0t^<C'T-HOi-H<£)Oc0t^-<*'t^C0OC0'<J^-^00'MOC0 
o-^irt • • • -co . . c~ -^ ■— ■ — — -^ ^ ^ — 



. Oi ■<*' ^ CD i-H .1—1 



COCDOCO CO •* 



-.»> i-H »H 



W -^ lO »o . . -n- 



. T-H C^l lO -^ -^ lO -^ 



.-H-^ 1— «W €©©&C^1t-H 



'*»ftC5C'ic/;r-iioaiaiC^oc^'-H'*'^cOr-(cS'^i-HCOt>»coc^io-rriot~>.cD 

cccoc-i . . . .o . .1— i*^o>o .■^ .010 .T-i-rr -cocooco 

."-s -^-^OOCO -^CO -.€^ CO -s -lO CD '<*' lO CO <M .» 



0(^lGOl-^oiO'-lOl"^o^-t^wt^cooO'^oc^c^l(^l(^^cD^^^l: 



c^i-ir-toaiior~i-Hcoo 



. .-> . . coco cs o 



.I-H .oco .^ ■ 



> O O 00 (M r-4 OS t^ 



• to -— I . .00 



. lO t^ Q t-» CO 00 lO 



I-H -s iKiO CO lO CD «0 C 



e^e^co 1-1 



i0i-H^CDeDr*^O:cDC0C0r^C^C005l>»O(NOW0ii0C'lt-»00I^OO00>OC-lOc0O'-i 



..-t . .C^C^tN 00 



O '^ CO CO C<l 05 CO I-H *C CTJ ^^ C-t lO C0G0O51O 



030 . CO CD . -f Oi O CO <— I i-< 00 CO'-H 



r^ooioco coco 



.■^ O) IQ CD CO CO -v«© 



coci'*Tf^Wl:o^oo5cooocDoo*^^(MTf(,-lOsocooooocoGOcouolCO^-oa5^*co^^o 



lOi-H .1—1 .00i-« . o »-< 



i-tt-'^iOiCCDC^i-iTr'^.-i 'cCiM 1-1 lO-^^CO 



. "^ 00 O lO CD rr CO uo 1-1 



- CDCDCD -^ 



-€^ 1-H i-< 



-,cO ^ b- CD r- ' 



. 00 W <M 11, 



t^-io-^ooc^cor^cooocoosaicDcDiMiotMi-ii— '-— l(^l.-llOcoolOco1-l■^'^t-to^>- 



coco-t(N(^^rNco.-lcDco H' 

COCDCDCO coco *.« 



. (N . O >0 . CJ GO 



1 oos»-ir-<N ooi-( 

-)i-l CO<-t 



.,"^ 00 Tf CD lO CO -.e^ 



r2C^Ot-"^'<*''^(NC0G0-4*CNC0i— iCOcOOOuO'rfOit^C^iOiO'^iO^HClr-dOCO'M 

'5^92-;*^-:^-:-:'^^'~"^'^ •'-' -t^os -osio .t-oc^ioiocoi^- co 

;ooiccoutiooa:i— lOosi— ( oco cd ooco»oco ■ .f- . -xco -^ co 

-,-^,- "O CO lO CO Ol lO -€fe C^ - -,(N COOIOOCD .n-. - 



cDil C«0& 






qpO 



I ^iOtSTJ 



'■■6'^ '■■6'°%'^' 

; g.S-t; g S O Cj' 



g a 

(-< o P 

.«g§ 

S£ p "^ 






OJ o 



t3 !>> 



S W K r1 









-t^ o eft ^cGj:^,„ c-'^T^ 



_ £5^ CO 03 ^ 

cjoj^— ;~'~Oor' 
^ - o :r ' 



2 Ci 



o o 



ooSS 

^ X2 ^ ^ 



^ -^ 



^JGC 



S £ C 5 „ :, 

"S ^-c g_i 



< W w -^ c. 



•-;J3 sj o O o 



:2 :::: -w "^-m as >-< >-' 
g g 0. ,c _o oj cjV: .o 

!-i 1^ S D 3 03 t> 3 3 



^03 ii^ 

Ssoo 

OJ O L« H 






93148°— 15- 



66 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



O 



^^ 



CQ 



.2 >> 






S ^ 3 
CO O 



P3 o 



CO <— I »-t O O O CJO O CO o <© -^ 

» ^ ^^ ^00 ^ - -co 

O GO CS OO CO t-^ CO 



i-tC0000C'^"^C^»OiOtCiO»O'^ 

^ ^ -. ^ -x ^ ■ -t'- 

TfrHC^ 1-t Oi (Ml-- CM 
coco 0\ CO 



t--C^COOOOCO'^COI--Ot-*'^f 
t--T-(io -O .O .-rr0»O .O 

^ - - -oi -, * -lo 

01 lO CO »0 ZD 0\ i-{ 



C/: lO CO . »o . l" . 
lO M* 1-H CO O CO o 

Go"t-^f-r iC 



OCOOCOOS(£>(NI>. 
-^ C5 (N . -^ . <M . 

O5.-HG0'-t<£HMi-HTf 
-. ^ -,,-1 ^GO 



CDCIOt-H 
Tf O .CO 



■<GCcc)(N05'^r--0it— io»o 

3 . -^ . !•- . CM O C-l .CO 

S-^ O'-»'rrt-i0»0OTP 



CMGOCO'^ OiC^OOOS 



rr rji Ol . CS 



'' o^ o cs o 



Tt"oouoTj<QO'»^05r-- 
t^ -^ CM .CO . rr . 

Tp-rt^O"^W5CMt-CS 



CM -^ ^ O 
05 CO r-H »f5 

cd'i-T 



TP Ci CiCO 



cot^tor^iocoascMOi'^Oicoo 

O ',0 CO . O . tC . I- OM-- 
OStOCCOT-HO'-'CMCCOCC: 
tp'cm'cm' 



I- O} l^ 

-OS - 



-ggs 



=3 ? 



•Srt^ 






■2 ft*^ 



COr-Ci^iOOI^C^lOSC^lOiCiOCiCOOCi'^ 
i-Hio .CiO .OOiO .0^0 .OieD .— icD . 
OOt-^«-HOCOOOCOCDCM'^'— 'O^-^ i-<^CM 



yJOiiOCCwt^COCOOOOOiOOiiOO 

-r .— t . CO CM . o ^ . >o t-^ . I- o 



oTco"" 



C-J 1—1 



1-1 t^ :D 



■^"■^■^CMl-^u'SOi^C-lClCMOGO'^COC^I'^C-l 
rriO .CM"^ .cor-- .t^Oi .OICO OiX) • 
CMO*^i0"^C0i000as»0:0'<ri— <iO OlCTiCO 

GC -^ »0 CO Cl CO 00 GO 00 



itCC0CM»OOG0Oc0r^-^C0i-IC0i-<»O01C0 



. CM 05 . cOi-1 



. CI 00 CO CO 



'^cOOcOCOt^OT-HtOOOOOit^CM rHrHO 



i-iOoiO'-<t--*'<*^CM!OCMt^OCMtHOCM'* 
^CO .lOO .1-1 CI .ClOO .000 COi-i . 
I^iOfOiOSCMi— ICO — OOCit^-^iO OO 

^ »rH 1^ ^T-H ^ rH ^ ^CO -. 
t-- CM -rri 1— I CO 00 lO U5 CO 



iOOiCMCMiOGCOCOCOClClOS-t^OOi— liOt^iO 
lO Oi . Cl CM .Cli-t .COCl .OlCl CM M^ . 
■f*i.— iiOCOO'^oOiOOOOOicOCM 050 

-. „.— I ^ -r-l ^ 1-1 - ..CO - 
Tp CM CO CM -^ l>- '^ -tf "^ 



OOOiOCMcO"«*'»OOClC^lCOOi"<*'OSi-lCM»OCO 

00 lO .co-^ .OiO .t-co .coci coo> ■ 
osoicoiociOior-rHcocor-oco t^t-i 



CO-^iOi-iOlOOOCOCOiOCOcOCTi 
CMCO .cox- . C-i Oi .CiiiO .Oi»0 
COCMaiCM005i-<COi— <l>-i— ti— <o 

ccTco" CO*"co" CO 00 t^ c^ 



OJiOCOi-HCMcOC^'OCMCMr^-ClrHCO 
coo .COOl .-^I^ -OCl .00'^ 
COi-tOiOl^GOOOC^COTfOOaiCO*-! 

- -T-l - *.i-( - rH - -co - 
CO CO lO CM >0 00 O lO 



lOC-lOS"*-— 'COCOClCOCICOfOC1»-<CO»OOOCl 
ox . "Tf CM . CI CI . O O . '-< O I- 1- . 

ciioo5coox»-'^io»oc)i-'i'--r ci-^co 

CO cm" Tf'cM" x' i-Tx' I- 00 



So 



o ?? ^ t. ° 

cj «] d ^.'2 c3 o o q^ oj t-j 



^COCO ^--1 r 

; o o o c! , 



(U 0) '^ ^ 



i1 >*^ 



Ml 



>. 



0^ +J 7^ 
OJ "^ S 






=3 S =" fi 

Q ^ QJ Oi 



ill 

- c^ a 



3 0-" s w 

S-^r^.S a> 
^ d o— < o 

o"cjr^o5 a 3 s 



»5 



'-HCMCO'^'iOCOt^XOO'-tCMCO'^iOCOt-.XOO'— 'CVICO-^iOCOt^OOOlOi— ICMCO"^»OcOt-^C0 
^r-t,-li-H^F-li-Hi-lT-4THCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMC^CMCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO 



STATISTICS. 



67 



TrQo«ococoo5»^oc<>oooor^ioooOi»-ioONcO'-HC^u2S^^^'^i2^^^^^^ 






jt^T-H . ,-( .^00 . ■*»< OO . CO lO 00 "<** lO t-i lO 

_ . _ _3 -^ r^ -^ .. ^ 



-e^ i-t r-t 



CCC^'--'C^05C^OOO(NOias»0.-iC<It^cC>':OCOQOOCiOCiOC^C^C1000COOOi-lC^':D 



. »0 -^ CO I-- ''J' 



CO i-i W O Ci lO t- i-H -^ <N 1-H (MCO O c0C0<-<^^ 



005 .000 .F-H^tOCOii^O'* COC'l 



CO 0«0 CO 00 I 



<-H - - (N iC O lO 00 »0 - ". 



cDC^'^OO'^Oi-'t^OOiiCO'^'^t^iOCOCOOOi-iOOOOr^COCOaiOCOt^iO^'^OiO 
CDOOOO • • • .CO . .-^-^COODiC .CO .CO*— < .i— tOO .O'^005t'-'^»0 i-Ht-- 
TfOCOC4C^OOQt-<<:D"*C^ C^Ci tO OOO^OO . .cO . -C^CO Oi O 

mm T— ( Oi (M CO (bQ «a eft ("^ 1-H eo 



r^ CO 



05'^»oooco05iOi>>ior^oco"^c^coooor--co<riiooiCs»Oi— lOcoosoo 

i-HMOJ . . . .Ol . .!£5COiOCO . lO^ -OiOO .CiOOOiOt-iOO 

COi-Ht-(»OiO00»Oi-HCOt- OiW lO Ot^OO . .Oi . .'MCO O-— l 



- coco CD '^ 00 >0 



- -"^ Oicd CO CD '^ - - 
OSOI €©«© e^«^00^ 1-H 



COOOOOdOaST-tOOOicOCOOCOcO^HirscoC^t^rH'^OSCOcOi-HOiOCOOOSC^OO 



I>'COCOC3^'^C3rHt--QOi-l OS<M Ol COiOOi 



. O '^ . -f CO . CO lO CO OCD^ CO 






-CO Ci :D l>- CD -^ - .- 
CO --1 e^€^ €^«&'*'^ 



»-IC000i-HC^>OCOC0C^c0'^C0(M(Nc0OiO0i00r^^00t^t-05i— lOGOt-^OOOiCOCO 



O00T-l^i-lOC3r-<i--CD»-l 
-- COCOCO^ OOiO 



. iO >^ . CO CO 



"^ .-H OO'^CO 



H lO t-cOO t- 00 o 



€^«^ «*&e^'+ --H Tj* 



1— il-*Ttie0C0cOOt^C'lcOt--'*00Ci'— 'COCiOO'MOcDCOiO(Ni-Hi:MOiOiC-^05CDI^U5 
-" - — -' : f^COC-1 Tt; (M_^ i-H __. CO O .,. CO "* _; (N ^ C^ C^ WCO 00 ^00 



COcC^I^-i— irrOi--* 
CO CO CO "^ 00 »o 



H - ^c) CO OS >o t^ lO -e^ 

cooo i-H e^ e©€^oo 



C0C0-^O>i-<t--t-'i-" 

t^ r- CO lO 00 t 



. .-H CO <-H CO "* . .— i .coo 



O O CO c-i . . ^ 

,-1 :, - CO ic -^ 00 "^ CO - - 

05-* 9^e© tf^©^— 1^ r-l 



.i-H . .1-t -^CO 



»OlCI>'^ 



(Mi-'COOO»0(NOOCOOOI:-^H-^T-40c005iCir^ 
T (M . <N .CO^ . Tti ^ . Ol '^ O ■* i-H »0 00 
C^ t-- COCOOOCl . -CD . .ifti-H CO 

c^ "-H (M --lot^ursco'^co 



CO c^ o^e^ ?^6^0T-t i-i 



00 t*"* 
ri 00 "^ 
COC^ICO 



COC^lOOOOOOiC'^COi-'Oi'^OST-ir^t^OOC^OicOt^-'tcOOs'^CSiOCOiCt 

. . . .(M . . '^ CO O CO CO . C" "" ■" ~" ■" 

00l^O00T-Ht^(M<M 00 (M CO 



• Oi-^ .OJCOOOOSO»OCO oc^ 



-. CO cor* ■■ 



1-i i— ' _j- -C^ lO O lO 



. OO l>- O: --< 



•-< — * e© €^ «-0 ^ 



- 03 c tCOi 



..^"^ s =^ " 

a; 1^1— ^ X- 
fe S o o - 

o^S oj 01 aj 









^4 t, Cfl ^j ^ 

eS'g 0-3 c o t< 1 
we c ^ c ^ d 

C5 — - O) -^ Of ^ ;3 I 
C3 O 



2 O ^ m 



;■£ c 



= !M n o « 



bJCvH 



' OJ o ^ 

' « » s 



S-:-:^ 



I >1 X oi 



- -■ o s "^ 

— ~ M 

t> o 

IT IT"" <D '" 

2 2 ® "S-S 
S.t: 3©S 

3 3 03 > S 



o o 
o o 

o a g — -^ 

«- O '^ TS T) 
<C O >-, (J 






68 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



•91 

s5 



CO OCOM 00 -^ 
COCO 



C4 lO Ol »0 C^ 05 
. OCO O . -* 

'^ i-^ ai h- 1-^ CO 

oo - - -co 

CO<M CO 



■ 00 CO lO t-COt-t^i-H 



OOi-HiO ^COC0O0kOTt*r 



C^ t- . 1— (N .000 



i-t -^OOCO C^T^-^t--.,— (COfMcO OO'-^f-H 



^H CO OiO 00 o *o 
t^ O O . -^ . i-H 
CO -^ Oi lO '-H CO lO 



00 <M »0 i-< 



lOUO CO 00 t^o 

. 1-ttO 00 . 1-t 

O (M 1-H ^ t^ '^ 

■^ -^ Tl 



CO -* i-H (M '^ O <N ■* 00 t^ 00 1-t CO fH i-H CD »0 



•O to 00 CO Oi 
CO--! Oi t^ o 



; CO oo CO TP rr u5 co^fO 



^ ^ 






COCOt^OO^ CO o 

1ft OC CD . CO - Oi 

OO'-'COOC^CO i-H tM 

t^ 00 ■* CO "O 



CO t^OCM 
O Olio 



00 CO --H ■* CO (N 10 "-I U5 O t~ (35 CO 00 

— OO.COCO.CDiO 

O3O'*00(M<M00'* 



t^C^ OrH 



03 ■*!■* 
.■>J<t-H 

CO . ■. 
COC4 



"3 rt 



CD CUM t- I>- -^ 
t^ CO CO . (M • 
tP C5 lO COCi CD 



COO^OO 
t-"^ .CO 
'^ CD CO "* 



■< »0 t— CD CO t^ OO OS t^- i-H 

.00 CO *o cor-oo^c- 



i-H T-IOOOO 



0C'<tCiCO00-^C-l-H 
Cl 00 . C» lO . Tf o 

t-TfcD-^cOOClOO 

oo'i-T co"" -^co 



Oi -^ 1^ 

• o ^ 

t~» 00 



3>? 



h3o 



^— <0^0>-H 



co>o 



. ^ .—> n 



3 2 



CO T)> 00 -< CO 



lOC^ICO^OC^CO^ 

CO^«O^Tt<00iOO 



eoi-H 

.(M 

ceo 



CO OCO THOit^ 

lomiM .o . 
0301 0"-io 



:5l 2 3 



0*0 Oi-H "^t 
t^ CO CO ^ -»t< 



C-JOCOOCCOCOCOOO 

>0 rt . ^(N . t^CO 

305t- »0 -^ ** lO »-H CO 00 t^ 



i-H C^ to 

.<-; CI 

coo t>. 






^1 






• o 

o 



w 



g>Ot-<MO>>0 
r-oc . "* . 
»-H t^co-^ o 



CO coo -^ 

CO -^ . t^ 
^H CO CO iO 



) CD lO CO ■<4< O 



rtiOOlCO'l'CDIMN 
003 . -H (M .coco 
CO-^t^tM^HlOr-^^H 

CD <n" C0(N 



PhcdJ 



'^f* ^H CO CO CO CO 



M< (M O 00 
O:, -■H . -^ 

CO«-l OOCD 



COOiCOOO-ff 00 ''J* CO CD CO »0 lO t^ t^ (N lO 






, _- .cDt- .Oi -^ 

icOTt*00 d OS I> 00 CD 



<^'^ o 



00 O r^ t-- '^ 1-H rH O 



CO t^ Ol 00 cot^ 
CO »0 ■ Oi .00 

GO ^ -^Oi O T-1 



r-i CO CD r^ o i>- 

O t--00 '^ •-* • 



t^Oi'-Ht^'— |»005CD 
CD 05 . O 1— I . Ol OS 
TpOSCOOC^CO-^lM 

co" CD 00 ;d" 



^>> 



OOiO COC^ O CD 



1 CO CO -^ OS Ol 



CXit-i-H r-( -^(M Ol 
CO^^ . CD - t- CO 

00 Tf t^ -^f CD 



rf O Ol C^ lO I 

•^ CDCDOS CD C 



Oit^t-i(MOt^»OT-( t^^O 
CI rt . O iM . CD C) . CD O 

■00;^ CSiOOOOi-iCDOO OOOi 



^ r^ -* CO OS 1-t 1-1 o 

CO CD CD . - (N 

COi-H^^ O 1-1 g 

oo o 



,— no Tft CD CD O 

CO OS - O . Oi 

CO(N OiO lO 



T-t ot^coooTfiM OS CO rH CO r> o CO 00 eooso 

■^ OS00OS0C'»O • OOO .h-O .IS-i-H .io*o 

OCDOi OscDOSCDi— i-^OOOS »O00 






OS 00 '-^ !M "^ CO 
OiOS O • '^ ■ 
OS ^ 00 00 CO 1-1 



CD 00 •— t GC' oo tO 

. O: O Oi -Oi 

t-- CD CO O Tt CO 



t— OS (N OS OC lO 
CO CO 00 »o CO . 
(M TiOsiO 



iOOcDiMOOiOiOI>. 



00 CD . CD CD ^ CO CO 
COtOCOOO.— iCOCD'^ 



»0 X OS 

.00 tH 

CDOCO 



- ^ CD -. 



"Si! 

W«3 



OS t^ CO CO (M t-- tr 
^^^, . t^ . o 

,-HOO ^»o o -^ 1-1 



COMf-»— 'COC^ -^Oi c^ »o 



C-l OS -^ CS 



C^lh-Tt*'tt^i-iO0t^ t^t^o 

coo . O CO . •— t lO . OS CO 

^ Tp CD »C CO TT 00 t^ 1-HOCO 

OC* I-T O* T^ CD -^ CO ^'" 

OSiO OCi— I OlOO I--.-H 






■J=J 
■o c c a a> 

^ oj O « =5 "^ »" 



° s .. .. 

, - a> *^ t-. OJ r- 

« 



>>'^ 



s ° 



pi o " 3 



2 m CO 

3oT oar 
o ® c « o 

Fu OPhCm 





73 




fl 




CS 




o 




M 




CB 




et-i 




o 












•t^ >> 




:;;o 




o® 




S-e 




1* 



S J ^ 



S O 

Oo 

^ g fl C3 I 



O GO 

C3 C3 

3C4 S 



.CD 



&I 



=- O t- C d 

^CO ^rTS 4) 



rH M CO -^ »0 CO t^ 



00—KMCO-* lOCD 



00 050i-H(MCO'# »OCOt^OOOSO»-HC^ C*^^i2] 
^ *-i CS C^ (N CS Cv| (M <N C^ CS M CO CO CO CO CO C^ I 



STATISTICS. 



69 







t-H 03C4 


CD t^ C^ ^H 


r*cD 


^_, 


>ox 


.^ 





c» 


CO 


f^ 


coco 


t^ --r -^ r^ 


coo; 


rr O OSCOtO X 


■ d 










•^ -^OS 




.IMWOJ >:(> 


.— I.CllM.iO OS .1^ 0X0X1^ CO 










■*co 


t>:t>:irf <o2(M 


s^ ^.n 


^ COCO'-H'^ . . t^ . .t^d X 












00:0 '^ 05 


T-1 .V -^r^ ^H CO ^ X - .. 










CO^C^ 




M 


SS ^ S i^'^SS •" 














■^ 














«« 


g 






; 




^ »0 :0 


rt -£i t^ — 1 


00 OS -t^-M CO 


-^t< C^ CO a> -^ CO 01 Ci »0 CD tM CO Oi '^ ^O 1-H 

■^ .co.'OO."* CO .-^c^cor-uoio -j' 


• CO 








-< Mt- 




. t~ CO t^ 










t-O --0 


(d c: -T 10 ^ <>; 


:^^ %^ 


10 C^t^iO^ . . CO . .OOi C^ 












:0 10 CO T t^ 










lo'io" 






SI* S 










lO to O 


■^ CO to Oi 00 


oooco r^ 1" 


CO OOOCOrt^TI- C) TT^OSiOClOX 10 


• d 








. . • • CO . 


. CO CO CO »o 


■^ .CO.ClO.t^ CO .CO-3^C^OSl^^ to 










00 -T^ 


I^iCCO -t<-< -H 


10 C-l TC -7- 


CO^COO . . OS . .r^co (N 












10 10 CO CO 05 


>0 .9» 


cs i-<.— 10 CI lOOt^-- 










■^ffC ^ 







to X cj ^ ^ e^-^ ^ -^ 




— 






CO (N "^ 


CO »0 CO Ol C5 


'TI^ to CO 10 


r^ loost^xtococi t^ .-ir^t^ox-^^ -^ 


; ^ 






t^ ^r CO 




. CO l~ OS 


.rt.tOOS.rt t^ .rJ.I^COOS.-<0 CO 










CO CO 


^ T-H c^i t>^ ^ CO 


r^ ^ to (M 


CO t^ c^ to CO . . OS . . X cn OS 












CO cor^ -^ t^ 


to .-!© 


^^ ., ..^ 10 ^ ^ t^ to -S'^ 
Tj. X -H rt 9§ S4 CO 




























CO 


COS© S© «^ 1^ 














«» 


«e e« 










OO • 


^—1 '• 00 -^ 


t^ to 1^ 1^ to 


eo CO OS cq t^ t^ cq to -a< c« -31 >o X t~ ti< x 


jo 








(N C^l • 


... .OJ . 


. -^ cot^co 


.CO .t^X .CO CO .CDOOXCOt^ to 










o o ■ 


00 ■ 05^ C^ 


r~-H e-jc) 


^ ?3".^.2c4 06 S.^to"S -t 












CO CO • CO c^ 


Tf ..a© 










CO CO • 






COCq - ^ C^gtO Cq 














i 














»»«! «© 










o> co-^ 


lO-M en coo CO 


X to CO 1^ 


CO CO X CI t^ CO to -J* X x^ tocor^o -^ 


: ^ 








CO coo 


... .00 . 


. t^COCO -J* 


CO . .Ot-O.OS ,-1 .t^cOOS-rCOOS OS 










r^coi?! 


coco lO »o ^ -^ 


-r OS T 


d t^ OS -^ . . CO .^x^ -^ 
..^ ^ .. ,^ OS .-1 CO cs . .. -. 












coco 10 CO -^ 


CO -ee 










'-' '" 




i 


■fj. t^ ^H r-4 ^r^o^ CO 














99 e© 










t^ CO "* 


t>.r^03 OS (M OS 


to X (M t^ .-t 


to i-HcocoocoOst^ t^ cocicsior-r^co os 


■ 








!/j TP -rp 




. OS 01 CO 


.rf.XCO.tO to .— IdXOtOX CJ 










^ -^ 


CO 060 cd^H CO 




to CO-HOSCS . . CJ . .^0 CO 












CO CO t^ •'T t^ 




^H - -co c) X r^osco -€^ 














oT 
5# 


S2 S * **2 - 










GO O CS 

■* o -^ 


<NOCO T-l«OC^ 


OOS—iO— 1 


d tOt^OsdcDOiO CI Ocoosxi^t^d 


: ° 










. ?>) c^ 01 


.d .CO-^ .^ .^^COdi-OtO d 










00 00 


t^ t^ CO cD.-t r^ 


co.^ 001 


rt OrtX-c. . d..cOd •- 












CO CO t^ ■'T t^ 


to ..e^ 


d - --^ CO OS I^ OS CO ^^ 














CO 


CO ^ — 1 5© ¥sm'X: f-i 










--Orf "5 


•* ^co .-1 coco 


CO^ »0 1^ Oi 


CO f-iXi^cooo-rf^ osi^oot^i-Hco 01 


• d 








t^ lO ^ 




. 10 C^I -f -t* 


^ .00 .-^tO .CO CO .ooccosoc^co -^ 










^ X CO 


CO CO 05 ^ CO 


»0 C^ 10 -M 


»0 to t^ -"H . . 00 , .^>o.-io 












CO CO r^ Tj* 00 


:D -.^ 


1-H - -cs Tf cooit^ -e© 










■rco 






g2 S -g *^2 ^ 










O) -o C<J 


t* CO "<^ lO CO 


lO »o CO ^o 


otocor^osco*^ cjsx-Htoocod ^ 


jo 








-f O "^ 




. X CI --< f 


^ .Xd .d d .OtOCOCD^tO OS 










CO CO 


CO -j5 oi .^ CO 


iC -^ CI 


t^t^t--0. . 0..tC^ OS 












CO CO t^ »o 00 


:0 -«^ 


^ .. -co** ^ i^ 1^ '^ 

















XX —1 -< -H€^-r CO 

dS© »a «© ^ CO 










CO-H >0 


^ T).01 OSOCO 


00 ososo 'J' 


>-l OXrttOCO'TO t^ CO-HO'Oddl^ 


; ^ 








^ o -^ 




. OS C^l CO CO 


.rt .01.0 .X CO .CSI-tOX-Td to 










Oi Oi 


CO CO CD OSr-H OS 


OS rt c-1 


^H X ^ CO CO . . -r . . OS 'T*- ^H 












CO CO t>" ..^ t^ 


to -e^ 


^ . — ( CO CO X CO -«« 










-H rt 




CO 


OCO-H-H «|e,«@co d 














«@ 


ee »^ 










too -.o 


OS CI t^ T-tf^ 


-*^^ CO OS CO 


—1 oto-j-todioo CO -roscoooox 


• d 








rf CTiIN 




. COCOX X 


d .—1 .OCO .OS d .COtOI-iOOSto I- 










O t^C-) 


t-^00 -^ iO ^ GO 


S-" "in 


CO -HOCOrt. . I^..dt^ CO 












COCOCD ^ r-l 


-H — l._rtCO T-l CO-Ht^>- 










coc-r 


'"' 


s 


to X y-i ^ —is^to^^ CO 








— :- 






«^ 


s 








O COb- 


•»<IOQO Ot~t~ 


rt c^ ri OS 


-^ 00 ^ CO c^j CO -^ -^ COiOOOOSCSO 


^OS 








OOC 


... . CO . 


. .-1 CO CI ^ 


•-H .t^.O'O.CC 00 .'^lOClt^r-icO 00 


■ 










OOOOCO OS^ CO 


t^ CO t^ CO 


Oi OiCqcOco-^'^ . . 00 . .cDCOOi-^ 












, COCOCO ^ OS 


CO - ^m 


^^ . ^^ i^ cs i_o 1^ - - - - 










•^ r^r^ 




OS t^ 


1-H r-.CS 1-H -H .-HSi%l^i-HCO-T' 










OS 30 






cccos^e© s^cot^^ 
















Og ". " 

^ 3 






"3 

il 

Ms 


•1 i 

■ a ;j: 

il ll 

JO ;.- 

: 0) • c 
fa :.= 


1 
1 

ill 

3 O == 




t: 
c 


8 ; 

&" '■ 

a : 

; 

_>! '. 

'5 ; 

•0 . 

M ■ 

£_• 

«l 
.S 


? 


1 

•0 


s 
i 


■V 

c 

'S 

■■? 

1 
•0 


tm 

oj 



3 


CO 

2 
.5 

o_ 
o.i 

'^ ^ 

>!-•- 

c3 0: 


T 

i 


1 


_2 


cs 


OS 

t 
1 



a 



a 

12 .S 

C3 l- 


a 


1 


1 

tM ,7- 

CP - 

•a p 


ed from the State . . . 
'ed from the State . . . 

ler child enrolled 

er child 6 to 20 years 


■a \ 
B : 

•^ :| 

si! 

— C3 - 


C3 • Wl 

lii 

c3 . 3 

d.9 o 

*^.~ o 
CO 3 ^ 


:'.g 

5 p 

as 


V 


Si 

03 

0) 

a 

^ 

■fcJc 
_c 




rlvate-fichool 
mentary anc 
ublic and pi 
ment ' 




Colored. . . 
ttending daii 
population G 
ength of sessi 
ays each chil 


lli 

d 2 «. 
"oo i- 

a2> 


er cent of tea( 
collegiate tra 
hird-grade cc 
ercent of thii 
otal school e> 
mount receiv 
ercent receiv 
xpenditure p 
xpenditure p 
of a pp 


er cent of tot; 
for teachers' 
uition per ch 
uition per chi 
alue of schoo 
verage value 
?hool librarie: 
umber of vol 
verage num 
libraries 


gaes 


2, 


P< PM P 


t <1 


<! <5 H^pp ewH< 


Ch Ph ^(1,Eh<PL|WW (in Eh^XmI-S-sI 


C^w 


C t^ 


OO- 


^ C^ CO-rfiO ^t^CC CiO^Cs 


CO tl" to CD t^ X OS .-1 d CO^tOCOt^XOS 


O-Hd 


m 


« 


1 c- 


-1 


■V 


1 rr 


-^ 


^-* 


TJ 


■^ tr 


■•I 




tr 


"^ 


to 


to 


"" 


totr 


to to CD CO 


CO cc 


coco CO cc 


COCO 


t~t^ 


t^ 


1 



70 



SCHOOLS OF THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS. 



-a 

— 

a 

o 



i 

'1:^ 



^ 



|o 



^5 






So 



19 



•a>. 



rto 



o s S 



■w e"5 






sa 



60-e 
1^ ^ 



C^ r^ ic o t-^ C*^ 1^ 

OS OQO .1-* . "f 



GO r^ -OS . rH 



^ CS Oi l^ i-H CS -£> 
00 T-H CO . Uti . o> 
OOSi-H O OCD 



cs 'Tf !>. M CO -^ N OS r- u:) Oi CO u^ CO CO r^ o 1-t ■" 



CO CO O iQ lO 



c^ (£^cooocolO . CO i-H 



OS 00 « 00 GO C^ t* f-H <0 OS 00 ooo 



^ lO O O lO •— t 



!>. iCCSC^i-OiOiOOO'tDcOOOCVIOMO «Ou^ 

C^ lOOSOSC^cO .wo .Wt* .0<N .iM 

CD lO 00 lO lO 00 -^ co»ot^ t^t^ 



00-^ -i-t 
O N cu lO 



r-c^— <osooaicDcoosoi(Ncqr}<oo 

CDiOOsi--0 -OOO .TfC^ .lO"^ 
t-t ,-1 lO 00 O -^ !>■ 0<N CO to O CO 

CD 1— I CD «— I CD O; t^ 



rH t>- W 

• f-HCO 



lO 1-H tT GO O i-H -^ 
t-.CO"* .1-1 .o 
«D CO CO i-H O :0 OS 



U5 iC O iC t^ iC 

. r-tcO »-< • O 

-*** CD O "£> OS -^ 
I^ -. -^ .^co 



>0 ^ O C^cDO'^'*t^t~-»-t'^OC0000St>- ^irnOi 
.00 CO iC (N CD GO 00 GO • C^ CD -COCO . »0 lO . OS ^O 

5 ,-( iOiO»-H'<J''«J<'rl*OC^»Ct^i-H C»0 



O CO O rH O 00 C<» XcD'^cDOOS 



Ca 00 CO . '^ 



. lO to iC . :D 



■^ C^ .-I CO 1— I O OS i-HcDt^OOCO 
*. OS - - ""^ 



O CD -^ CO (D .-H 00 O '^ CQ --» CD CO 00 rH C^ CO 
COCOC3SCOCO . CO 00 . C4 CO .COCO . OS CD 

f-H 1-H (N OS t- C^^ I>- CO lO 1-H CO -^ OS t^ CD fN 



00 O CO ''t^ i-H OS CO 
CiiO t^ .CD . 1— I 
<^:OCO-<OI^O 



CD ooo OOCO 

. CD to CO . CO 

-^^ t-C^ o o 

00 - •- -CSI .V 



OOS -^ fcOCO 1-t OOSCOCO »Q OO CO O r* CD 

i>-cocDi-^co .0000 .cooo .cogs .osos 

.— t OS lO 00 CD 00 »0 t^ C<l iC T-i O '^ OS 



CO 1-H O) O lO OS I>- 
CO OOiO . CN - OS 
CD UO OOO UO lOiO 



lO CO C^ i-H ^ 



OiOiOOOOOO OS 

-!**OS -^ . O . ^ 

t^ C^ '^ CO 00 -^ i-H CO 



OS t^ C*l -^ CD t-< CO 
-^i-H CO ■ .OS 
CO<M ^r-4 <Z>1-* 



O "^ 1-H t^ O 00 W '^ CO 00 i-H lO t-- <N CO CO CO ^ c^ 

lO TT i^i^osoos .oocs -coco .oot^ .t^o 

.-«.-( 1-H 00 O O Cfl 00 OS CO CD lO ■<9' »0 OS lO 

oo't-T lOw^ lo ccccT ic" 



cooo 
• o 

00 1-H 



J-^TfCOXi-^COCOOS'rl't^-^TrcO 

■- -s . csi t-- .coco . O 1-t 

• t— cD-^-^t-Hi-H-^iOCO 



lOOs 00 ■'r OS 



S^OS C^t^ OS N CDCOCOOSiOOSt^CDt-^N-HOS'^O CO^C^O 
>.OS .OS tO CO •^OSOSCOl-.COiO.OOi-H.'-HCO .osco 

I CO CO I^ 00 CO OS t^ CD OS <M 1-H -^ (N "«r »0 CO 



OS OS CO CO ic o ■* 
OS -^ -rr . O .OS 
CD CO Ot-'fiC 
t-t-* CO 



CO — ^ 00 .-H lO o 

. r^ CO '^ .00 

CO OcO O^ CO 
OS - - -M 

CO "^ CO 



OS -^ CO O O CO i-H OS »0 (M OS (N <N 1-H lO --< 



O CO OS X: CO 



I- -f . C^ CO 



r-l -H t— CD lO O O -^ CO "-I CO ^H CO i-H CO 



00^ t-CONNOO 

■^ f* ^- . r* .1-H 

00 CD rH C^ rH C^ CO 



Uti <N CO C<» O r-t C^ 

iO 00 I"- • 1-H . t-H 

OCO CD lO O CO 

COCQ 



iO 00 I"- • 1-H . t-H 

— -^ 

-. OS 



4^ 00 rH 



00 OOCO CO lO 



CO O CO CO CO iC O CSUN OS OS i-H CO OS OS t— CN 

osTpcooscs .ooos . ob iO . c^ CO .coco 

00 CO lO »0 C^ lO OO CO CD OS -n- OS 

li^r lo' i-T c^'i-h"" i-h*~ 



lOiccor- cO"^ OS CO 

to I ' . lO . CS CO CO 

OiO GOTt< COi-H 



riO'^cC'C^'^i-H'^TrLOcooc^'-H 

H C^ OS 1-H C^ ..-HO -t-^'-O ■ »0 00 
H,-( i-.iOiOC^-^'J^i— I C^l'^CO 



1-HiOcO-^t-C^t- COi-hO— (^CD 1-HO i-o CS 



CO OS CO .OS . c^ 



■^i— tC^cDi-HCDcO lOiQOOi 



. CD ir o .1-H 



"-^Ht-^-jSGOcDOSOCOOOi-tCOCOCO 

" - -"COCO .-^CS .OOCO .1—00 

Ost-OSt— OscDCD lOi-H^OCSl 



CO CD 00 I- CO CO CO 



COC^ T-H w 



1^^ 



s^t: ort'r w) 



« oC; o a) o <D^ <i> 

seh?oPhPi(Ph!z;pm 



^■3 



•— ft 



^_r § ffl o 

P-tl 3^ 3 M MS 



^^E'' 



o' So 

O <u ° 






&s"-j 



. - _ . ® G M 

> o j=l^ P t- S o 









5^ 5 oT 

ao art J/ 
o w o ^ n 

Ph Ph C 



P.PH iz; 



p^ccW t>oe4 



r-t N M -* lO to t>. 00 oio^c^m-* 



1(N (M IN e<l(M M CO « 



STATISTICS. 



71 









o t^co 


Oi 05 


lOOC^ 


e^ CO COIN 10 


co 


ootniocooNio 


■^ 


OICOOOOXO 


^^ 




N 












»0 CO "-H 




. OC^ CO t^ 


• en .T»t,-i .00 


(N . COC^ 00^ CS <N 












l~-f^ 


.-H rH to COi-t TP 


M — 1 IM C-) 


e<< CO c^to (N . 


-^ . .^ Tf (M 














CO «D -^D '<*' C^ 


10 -m 


IN ^-,_^— < 00 


CO 10 t^ -©& 
















S 
^ 




S S-| 






— ; 






CO CO • 


t^ t^ • 


CO OiO 


CO Oi to 05 CO 


to tOOtOINOCCOS 


CO ocotooccnc<i-.o 00 


CM 










KtC . 






.OC^C-) 


.CO . »0 CO .00 


t^ .CO-*t^OtO-* CD 












00 00 > 


0006 ' 


coSio 




■^ t^ 00 - 


. . .-in- to 














ZQ CO • 


10 t» 




C<» - -CS CO 


CO 00 -9» 


















a 


CO t^ —1 
COS© «© 


^ «©s©CM eo 




- 


] 






00^ t^ 


10 X 10 t^co 


OS !>" t^ X 


IN IN IN -ll* CO t^ 


10 CO IN CM I^ CO 00 


^ 








COC^ •-( 


... .c^ . 


. 01 CO CO t~^ 


^H . en . asco . 00 


00 . ■* 00 t^ CO ^ to 












oo 


0000 •'^ 10 -— 1 CO 


Olr-< OiC^ 


CO CO 00 (N -It* . 


00 . .to CO ffl 














CO CO »0 QO 


CD "S^ 


^ - -INO 


00 CO i^ CO -e© 












lo'io" 






£2 A 


e© e©9%g CO 




- 








rt wO 


CO '^ to CJ CO 


OOOi C^CI -^ 


05 t^ 1^ to to t^ 


CO -^XrtCMOOJ; CO 


-1* 












. w coco lO 


1-1 .rt . INO .0 


to . OV en I- rt Tj< X 












ss^ 


0600 ^ oi 1-H »o 


§- ^-§1 


^ -a* OOCO 00 . 


00 . . XOO 00 ^ 














CO CO CO "«r" 05 


,-, rt .,.,-< 


-< CO [^ . - 












c^-c^" 




■0 


is - 


— ) ^ $^ T^ — ^ Tjl 




- 








t^oo oc 


OOtO .-HrH rt 


TOiccrc'i 


t-H eo <i 1— 1 CD 00 CD Ol 


CO rH to 'f CM X CM —I 


_ 










. t^ IM CO 00 


^ . Tt< . t^tO . ^ 


Oi . X to CO C5 ■* CD 












-HC:..-! 


CO CO 05 rH t^ 


Oit-H CDSS 


CD coco CO '^t* . 


. 01 . .OX X 














CO CO i>- '^ r* 


to .«© 


c^ » -w ■* 


COOt^ -9S 












coc^" 




00 




-1 S©9aTf CM 
«© CM 

9» 




- 








CO CD O 


WCO <NcOI> 


00 1^ 00 r^ CO 


t^ 00INt~tO00-*cO 


CM t^t^OOtO-H-H CO 


CO 








... .IM . 


.-Hcsr^o 


rt .CO .toco .CD 


CO . t^ CT. t^ CD a; — t to 














CO CD to CD 1-1 to 


0(M OOg 


t^ -^ t^ CD IN . 


-* . . o; 05 














t^ C^ CD to Oi 


rt . -rt 'O 


CM 001^ -W 












•*r •*»* 




>o 




¥^ e© c» 












COIM ^ 


1-H 1— 1 to lO '?' OS 


rt COO'l'-H 


-^ OOCOi-H^OcOCO 


to •«< -5" 1^ 1^ ^ 









• 




00 t~-< 




. r-t CO c; to 


. rr . CO - -^ 


CO .CMCMC^CDCT. t^ "^ 










O t^co 


CO CO C^ t^ ,-H T-H 


-^ C^ '<J' (N 


1-H »o c: cr 


. . CTi CM Oi 














CD -^ CO -* t^ 


10 ~m 


^ -^-^C^ 


01 CO X CO -S^ 












'i<''co'~ 






«©«© 


e© 99e©-r co 
s© 












<NOO 


01 Ot^ OCOO 


•»co-<to as 


lOINtOCOOC^»00 


COXCMr^XtOX —1 


CM 










Ol TT lO 


... .CO.. 


.CO(M— 1 


.-H . IN . ■»• t~ . ^ 


CO . CM rr 0-. t~ to 












coco 


SSS S?-<2 


Ol-H 00 CO 


t^ 00 -S* I^ 


05 - . CM to 00 














r-l - .^ CD 


CD CO -S© 












IN-Cf 









-H .■H95X CO 




] 








OOrt t^ 


CD -^ »-l CO CD r^ 


(N -r CO CD 


fH Oi to -^ 00 CO 00 


to cr. -ih X CO CO 













CD -!r (M 


... . . 


. OCMrt 0: 


.CM . to CO . rt 


ni .^^^CDI^n-X to 












U50 


0000 t^ 0.-< cs 


COi-H OOrt 


-1« ^ to cs 
















«:; t^ to t^ 


to ^m 


IN ~ .^r-< 


06 i~ x' cd' "".-S '^ 












^rt 




o> 


IN i-H 91 


e© m^iz CM 
















^ 


95 «© 


S5 












OO 


00 00 


CD 05 


t^ -^ 00 OO) 
.tOCSO) CO 


f-i CD 00 CO t^ CO r^ oi 

. ^H . t^ CO . ^ 


i^aixtocMxco 
nt • CO c^ X -^f- -t- -^ 


-H 












p^ 


'^'^^ 


Or-1 OOC-J 


-H t^oo: 


CO . . -J- TO CM 














r^ t-^ 


10 CO 


CO .,«« 




cn X to -s^ 












CO CO 






CO 


'^ r-.-_H"^£ 


«© eee^CM , cm 


















s 


10 -- 9S 


















S©9^ 


a© 












toio^ 


oca-oo c^ot- 


00 IN —( Oil 


TT -^ 00 to 'X' CD 


t^ OlCMCOn"— ICO-S" K 
Ci • "O -^ to Tt- CM t- 


n» 










t^TTCO 




. CD CO ^ I^ 


. p. -CD 












COCO 


c:>CB CD (N-ho 


t^ ocs 


CD IN 0000 


X . . to X r- 














CD COO) »o 05 


CO ««o 


^ . -IN TT 


to X CD -^ 
















t^ 


COCO ^ 


i=! e©9902 -H 


















CM 9? €© €^ CO 
















«© 


^ 


e© 












OOi t- 


oc^ -H coo t^ 


O! to to a-, c<i 


1^ --ICOOt^COCMC<- 


CO 1^ CO CM to ^ CO X 


CM 










co ^ — 


. . . . CO ■ 


^. CO<NO -H 


■ CM . 00 -1^ 














CO Ol »- 


ooco <^'^S 


r~-H t^c> 


10 t^ CO ■* CD 


CM • . to C^ t^ 














CD CD 00 


CO ^93 


-H . -CO-H 


X t- X CD »e© 












cs c<» 




00 


C7i -^ ^ 


99 «©99CO CM 
















IN 


CO— 1 a% -f 
















69 


^» 


99 




- 








■^ss 


CO t^ c^ 


OC^ X '»' 


01 00O500cOCi.-<C- 


^ X r-- Oi n* CM t^ to 


CO 








lO tjOC 


... -co^. 


. CO "n» -^ TT 


. 'Tti 00 . cr 


-ii .OXtOtoCOX to 












t^ CC 


r-H ^ l^ ^H t^ 


OOrH CO -W 


CD CDOO^IN 


—1 . . CJ> -rf t^ 














t^ t^co "2 m 


r- -€» ., .rH l^ 


■nt CO ^ X - - 












CO CO 




00 


Tjt ^ 1-H 


^ .-^ 9© t^ ^ —1 
















^ 


OT -< «© 9% e^ n<^ 
















€© 


e»e© 


9» 






i 

« 

ii 

li 


Ob 

•11 

o t 


o S 

^ 1 






<» 
g 








I 
& 

? 

a 

2g 


> 
03 






1 

IS 

?. 



CD 








> 


IS 

2 
'So 

1 



.la 
S 





a 

M 



a 
'$ 


a 

Ci= 


8 

S 

IS fc 


0) a> 

0) <B 1- 

^.i^ a. 

aas 
22:5 


IS 




s 


1 

3 

s 

3 

•3 


"c 



be 

03 

"0 

bJ 

CM C 

2S 

CD^ 


b 


) 


.1 

c: 

C 
a 


g 

"o 

> 




"c 
c 

c- 


s 

a 






(^ pup 


3 > 


c 


1 

be 




;- 
C 


ttending daily 
population fi to 
engthofsessioB 
ays each child e 


2 
"3 


1 


b S J 

H CD <^ 


a 

0)+- 


er cent of teach 
collegiate traini 
hird-grade certi] 
er cent of third 
otal school expe 
mount received 
er cent received 


1,0, 

IS 

3 
■3 a 

» 0; 


er cent of total 
for teacher's sal 
uition per child 
uition per child 
alue of school bi 
verage value of 

^hnol 1 ibraries 


G fe t 

3 >^ 


irculating librar 
umber of high s 
nrolled in high s 
of population 6 


<J 


<i -si ^JOp ewe< 


fH Ph epH&H<;pHfl. 


W Ph He^^^KZ-sl C^K 


eo -S- 


I 90- 


oj CO '^ to CD r^ 00 »-i c^ 


CO -^ tOOl^OOOlC 


^H CM CO -^ 10 CD r^ X C35 O ^^ CM 








3 C^ 


^ 


"^ 


^ 




"' 


-r 


-<T 


■^ 


-^ 




tr 


tr- 


t/- 


to 


to 


tr 


to tr 


lO lO CC 


CD 


CD 


«s 


COCC 


CD 


CD 


CD 


CD 


t> 


t~ 


t> 


1 



^o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN, 1915. NO. 12 WHOLE NUMBER 637 



HISTORY OF 

PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION 

IN ALABAMA 

By STEPHEN B. WEEKS 

OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION 




WASHINGTON 
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

"WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

20 CENTS PER COPY 



In the same series: 

Bulletin 1912, No. 27. History of Public School Education in Arlcansas. 
In preparation: 

History of Public School Education in Tennessee. 



CONTENTS. 



Letter of transmittal 5 

Chapter I. — Evolution of the State 7 

Growth of population of Alabama, 1800-1910 9 

First centers of American settlement 11 

The lines of travel and the influence of roads on settlement 12 

The distribution of incoming settlers 14 

Chapter II. — Private schools before the Civil War 16 

Schools supported from private sources 17 

Schools supported in part out of public funds 23 

Chapter III. — Administration of the sixteenth sections, 1819-1914 26 

The laws of the thirties and the failure of the State bank 27 

Judge Porter's bill in 1847^8 30 

Proposed consolidation, 1852-53 33 

Transfer of management to State superintendent, 1854 35 

Auditor Reynolds's strictures, 1869 36 

The law of 1881 lays foundation of a State fund 38 

The act of 1899 and the case of Alabama v. Schmidt 39 

Principal of the sixteenth section fund, 1851 and 1912 41 

Chapter IV.— The rise of public schools in Mobile, 1826-1865 42 

Public schools reorganized, 1852 44 

Development, 1853-1865 45 

Chapter V. — The experimental period in the organization of a State system, 

1819-1854 48 

The laws of 1839-40 49 

Messages of Gov. Chapman and Gov. Collier in 1849 51 

The house report of 1851-52 53 

Gen. Perry's reminiscences 56 

Chapter VI. — Organization of the public-school system, 1854-1856 58 

Meek's report on education 59 

The act of February 15, 1854 60 

W. F. Perry chosen first State superintendent 63 

The course of study and textbooks 65 

The amended act of February 14, 1856 67 

Chapter VII.— The work of the public schools, 1856-1865 69 

The condition of schoolhouses 70 

Indifference of the people and weakness of the law 71 

Equalization and distribution of the sixteenth-section fund 74 

The Alabama educational association and the educational press 76 

Gabriel B. Duval becomes the second superintendent 77 

The Civil War and after 80 

Chapter VIII. — Reconstruction in the public schools, 1865-1876 84 

I. The intermediate period, 1865-1868 84 

II. The old regime and the new, 1868-1876 87 

The State board of education 88 

Reorganization and new legislation 89 

The contest for supremacy in Mobile 90 

Income, misappropriations and investigations 93 

Conservatives in power, 1870; economy and reform 96 

3 



4 CONTENTS. 

Chapter VIII. — Reconstruction in the public schools, 1865-1876 — Continued. page. 

III. School legislation in 1872, 1873, and 1875 101 

Law of December 14, 1872, practically suspends schools for 1873 ■ 101 

The appeal of the State board of education; arrears 103 

Act of March 8, 1875, and constitution of 1875 reduce school fund 110 

The general situation in 1874-1876 Ill 

Chapter IX. — Reorganization and advance, 1876-1898 114 

I. The constitution of 1875 114 

II. The school codes of 1877 and 1879 116 

The administration of Leroy F. Box, 1876-1880 118 

III. Progress in the eighties 119 

The administration of Henry Clay Armstrong, 1880-1884 119 

The administration of Solomon Palmer, 1884-1890 120 

Rise of the special school district 122 

Local taxation and the rise of city systems 123 

IV. The Hundley amendment and after 127 

The administration of John Gideon Harris, 1890-1894 127 

The administration of John Orman Turner, 1894-1898 131 

Chapter X.— The awakening, 1898-1914 135 

I. The beginning of a new era : 135 

The administration of John W. Abercrombie, 1898-1902 136 

II . The constitution of 1901 140 

III. Contemporaneous conditions and progress 142 

The administration of Isaac W. Hill, 1902-1906 142 

The administration of Harry C. Gunnels, 1906-1910; of Heiu-y J. Wil- 

lingham, 1910-1913; and of William F. Feagin, 1913 to date 146 

Chapter XI. — ^Miscellaneous and supplementary agencies 155 

I. Normal schools and other normal agencies 155 

II. City schools 162 

III. Negro schools 168 

IV. Rural schoolhouses; rural supervision and school improvement asso- 
ciations 172 

V. Rural school libraries and library organization 177 

VI. District agricultural schools 17! 

VII. Industrial education 18* 

VIII. The county high schools 184' 

Chapter XII. — Looking from the past and into the future 187 

Public school statistics, 1855-1914 197 

I. School population, teachers, property, and school year 197^ 

II. Enrollment and attendance 19j 

III. School revenues 191 

IV. School expenditures 2( 

V. Tax valuation 20J 

Addendum 20' 

Bibliography 20j 

Index 20! 



I 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Department of the Interior, 

Bureau of Education, 

Washington, February 19, 1915. 
Sir: I submit herewith for publication as a bulletin of the Bureau 
of Education a brief account of the progress of education in the State 
of Alabama. This is the second in the series of brief histories of edu- 
cation in some of the States of the Union which this biu"eau is having 
prepared by and under the direction of Dr. Stephen B. Weeks, of this 
bureau, for the purpose of providing accurate information for the 
future historian, and the still more important purpose of helping 
those who are now working for the improvement of education in the 
States, as set forth in my letter transmitting the manuscript of 
BuUetm, 1912, No. 27. 
Kespectfully submitted. 

P. P. Claxton, 

Commissioner. 

The Secretary of the Interior. 

5 



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. 



The compiler wislies to acknowledge with thanks many courtesies 
which he has received from citizens of Alabama during the prepara- 
tion of this bulletin. Supt. John H. PhiUips, of Birmingham; Mr. 
Henry J. Willingham, now president of the State Normal School at 
Florence; and Mr. William F. Feagin, the present State superintend- 
ent, courteously answered numerous questions; Hon. John W. Aber- 
crombie and Mr. Isaac W. Hill, former State superintendents, read 
parts of the paper and offered suggestions, while Mr. Thomas M. 
Owen, LL.D., director of the State department of archives and 
history, put the historical material in his office, including many 
pamphlets m the Curry Collection and the original manuscript letter 
books of the State superintendents down to 1873, at the service of 
the writer. Dr. Owen also read the manuscript and freely gave the 
benefits of his very wide knowledge of the subject. 
6 



HISTORY OF PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN 

ALABAMA. 



Chapter I. 
EVOLUTION OF THE STATE. 



The territory included within the present State of Alabama Ues 
between 30° 13'and 35° north latitude and between 84° 51' and 88° 31' 
west longitude. It has a total land and water area of 51,998 square 
miles, and was first visited by De Narvaez and later explored by 
De Soto (1540) ; but the Spaniards made no attempt at settlement and 
for more than a hundred years there was no other visit to the ter- 
ritory by white men. Then came La Salle, with his idea of a French 
empire extending through the heart of North America, the Mississippi 
to be the main artery of commerce, and a chain of forts to connect 
Canada and Louisiana (1682). Under the impetus of this idea came 
the settlement at Biloxi in 1699 and that at Twenty-seven Mile 
Bluff, on Mobile River in 1702. In 1711 this latter settlement was 
moved to the present site of Mobile. This removal marks the real 
beginning of European settlement in that section of the United 
States, and Mobile was for years the center of French opposition to 
the westward thrust of the English-speaking peoples from Georgia 
and the Carohnas. 

It should be noted that the Spaniards never formally surrendered 
their claims to the country now represented by the State of Alabama, 
but included it within the ill-defined boundaries of Florida, and that 
the English made a similar claim to it as a part of their province 
of Carolana, ''the east of Carolana joining to the west of Carolina," 
according to Coxe, who was the leading exponent of the Enghsh 
contention; but the French remained in actual possession of the soil 
till the peace of Paris in 1763, by the terms of which Canada and all 
of that part of Louisiana east of the Mississippi River, with the excep- 
tion of the island of Orleans, was ceded to England, and the city of 
New Orleans with all of Louisiana west of the river to Spain. By 
these cessions France was forced out of the Continent of North 
America, and the visions of La Salle's American empire vanished. 

7 



8 PUBLIC SCHOOL KDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

By a treaty of 1762 East and West Florida had been ceded by Spain 
to England in exchange for Havana, and the Enghsh flag then 
waved over all the territory of North America east of the Mississippi 
except the city of New Orleans. 

In reorganizing the territory of West Florida the Enghsh in 1767 
extended its boundary northward to the hne of 32° 28', about the 
latitude of the present city of Montgomery. The territory north of 
32° 28' was included in the Enghsh province of Ilhnois. During the 
American Revolution, Bernardo Galvez, Spanish governor of Louis- 
iana, captured both Pensacola and Mobile, and by the treaty of 
Versailles in 1783 the Floridas were retroceded to Spain by England, 
which at the same time acknowledged the southern boundary of the 
United States to run down to 31°, thus ignoring her own boundary 
of West Florida and bequeathing a bone of contention to the United 
States and Spain. This territory remained a subject of dispute till 
1795, when under the Jay treaty Spain acknowledged the American 
contention for 31°, although it was not till 1798 that the Spanish 
colonial cfficials were forced to yield recognition of the treaty. By 
the Federal act of April 7, 1798, a territorial government was estab- 
hshed for the Mississippi Territory then embraced between 31° and 
32° 28', of hke character in all respects to that over the Northwest 
Territory, save as to the last ordinance (slavery) . A commission was 
provided by the act for setthng the contention between the United 
States and the State of Georgia over all lands lying north of 31° and 
south of the South Carolina cession of 1787 which Georgia claimed 
as a part of her territory under the original charter of Oglethorpe. In 
1802 Georgia ceded to the United States all her claims to this terri- 
tory; and in 1804 the territory between 32° 28' and 35°, including the 
strip of land 12 miles wide known as the South Carohna cession, was 
annexed to the Mississippi Territory. In 1812 Congress added to 
that Territory what was known as the district of Mobde, being the 
lands between the Pearl and the Perdido Rivers, recently taken from 
Spain and extending from the Gulf northward to EUicott's line in 
31°. By act of March 3, 1817, the Territory of Alabama was estab- 
hshed by Congress, with boundaries corresponding to those of the 
present State. This Territory was admitted as a State of the Union 
by the act of Congress of March 2 and resolution of December 14, 
1819. 



EVOLUTION OF THE STATE. 

The growth in population has been as follows : 

Statistical view of growth of Alabama population, 1800-1910. 



9 



Years. 


White. 


Colored. 


Total. 


Per cent of 

increase 

since last 

census. 


Population 

per square 

mile.' 


1800 






2 1,250 

9,046 

3 25,000 

127,901 

309,527 

590, 756 

771,623 

964,201 

996,992 

1,262,505 

1,513,401 

1,828,697 

2,138,093 






1810 










1818 










1820 


85,451 
190,406 
335, 185 
426,514 
526,271 
521,384 
662, 185 
833, 718 
1,001,152 
1,228,832 


42,450 
119,121 
255,571 
345,109 
437, 770 
475,510 
600,103 
678,489 
■< 827, 307 
^ 908, 282 




2.49 


1830 


142. 00 
90.86 
30.62 
24.98 
3.40 
26.63 
19.87 
20.83 
16.92 


6.03 


1840 


11.52 


1850 


15.05 


1860 


18.80 


1870 


19.44 


1880 


24.62 


1890 


29.51 


1900 


35.66 


1910 


41.67 







1 In 1910 land area 51,279 square miles. 

2 Mississippi Territory. 



3 In Washington County, Ala. , only. Pickett. 
* Excludes a few Indians, Chinese, and Japanese. 



The sources of this population, as far as it concerns the older 
States, are shown for different decades in the following table, which 
includes every State which has in any decade contributed as much as 
1,000 to the State's population. 

Statistical vievj of the sources of Alabama's population. 



States. 



Georgia 

South Carolina 

Tennessee 

North Carolina 

Virginia (and West ^'irginia) 

Mississippi 

Florida 

Kentucky- 

New York 

Ohio 

Louisiana 

Penns5"lvania 

Maryland 

Texas 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Arkansas 

Missouri 



1850 


1860 


1870 


1880 


1890 


5^,997 


83,517 


93,028 


95,872 


95,875 


48,663 


45, 185 


42,971 


35,764 


24,355 


22,541 


19, 139 


19, 797 


23,859 


25,185 


28,521 


23,504 


30,290 


23,269 


15,491 


10,387 


7,598 


29,635 


24,351 


16,232 


2,852 


4,848 


10, 149 


13,046 


15,009 


1,060 


1,644 


2,764 


4,029 


3,969 


2,694 


1,966 


2, .580 


2,624 


3,983 


1,443 


1,848 


1,539 


1,668 


2,086 


276 


265 


682 


1,477 


3,764 


628 


1,149 


1,753 


1,785 


2,286 


876 


989 


727 


1,199 


2,318 


757 


683 


2,209 


1,889 


1,483 


55 


275 


640 


1,254 


1,822 


114 


224 


369 


686 


1,374 


93 


186 


278 


785 


1,741 


91 


343 


650 


863 


1,094 


158 


191 


516 


572 


861 



99,654 

18,921 

31,035 

12, 102 

15,320 

20,256 

5,924 

4,207 

2,109 

4,020 

2,750 

2,533 

1,121 

3,230 

2,675 

2,171 

2,053 

1,303 



Assuming these figures to be correct, and a proper foundation on 
which to base generaUzations, it is evident that in the development 
of Alabama immigration has come primarily from the States imme- 
diately adjoining; that it has been in direct proportion to distance; 
that it has been in this case, as in most others, in the main along lines 
of latitude; that the population coming into Alabama in the early 
days was distinctively southern, and that it was not till 1890 that an 
increase in the northern and western elements began to command 
attention. 

The States that seem to have contributed most to the population 
of Alabama are, in the order of importance: Georgia, South Carolina, 



10 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Tennessee, North Carolina, and Virginia; these States in the four 
censuses between 1850 and 1880, stand with tlu-ee exceptions in the 
above order. Two of them, Georgia and Tennessee, represent a 
migration from the neighboring older States, Virginia and the Caro- 
linas. It is probable that an overwhelming per cent of the Alabama 
population of the ante bellum period traced its origin directly or 
indirectly to Virginia and the Carolinas, as is showQ by the following 
tables : 

Total population Alabama, 1850 428, 779 

Born in the State 236, 332 

Born out of State, but in United States 183, 913 

Born in foreign countries 7, 509 

Birthplace unknown 1, 025 

428,779 

Born outside of State, but in United States 183, 913 

Born in — 

Georgia 58, 997 

South Carolina 48, 663 

North Carolina 28, 521 

Tennessee 22, 541 

Virginia 10, 387 

169,132 

Born in foreign countries 7, 509 

Born in — 

England 941 

Ireland 3, 639 

Scotland , 584 '; 

Wales 67 

Germany and Prussia 1, 112 

France 503 

Austria 33 

Switzerland 113 

Denmark, Norway, and Sweden 74 

British America 49 

7,115 

It is thus evident that the States which in the decade betweei 
1840 and 1850 made the largest contribution to Alabama's population^ 
furnished no new ethnic elements; and that the foreign contributioi 
was neither sufficient in size, nor sufficiently different in characterj| 
to produce variation in type. There was in general large racial 
homogeneity. 

It may be interesting to inquire at this point how and along whal 
lines of travel, and over what roads, these immigrants got into Ala- 
bama. If the lines of travel and the location of earliest settlement 
are known, these facts will help explain why certain sections were ii 
advance of others in the organization of schools. 

After the province of Louisiana came into the hands of the Englisl 
as a result of the Treaty of Paris in 1763, they began to encourage 
immigration, and the first immigrants found homes not in what is 



EVOLUTION OF THE STATE, 11 

now Alabama, but in Mississippi, coming by water up the river from 
New Orleans or by water down the Ohio and Mississippi from the 
older colonies on the Atlantic coast. 

The historian Pickett, writing of the period from 1768 to 1773, 
says : 

The English authorities encouraged emigration and many availed themselves of 
their liberal offer. The first Anglo-Ameriran colony came from Roanoke, in the 
province of North Carolina, and established themselves between Manchac and Baton 
Rouge. They were followed by others from North and South Carolina, who crossed 
the mountains to Tennessee, there constructing flatboats, descended that river into 
the Ohio and thence passed down the Mississippi. Others from Georgia even cut 
through the wilderness to find the Natchez country, which had become so favorably 
known. Emigrants from Virginia came down the Ohio. They all received upon 
their arrival liberal and extensive grants. After a while emigrants came from Great 
Britain, Ireland, and the British West Indies. During the three succeeding years 
many flocked from Georgia, the Carolinas, and New Jersey, and established them- 
selves upon the soil by the Bayou Sara, the Homochitto, and Bayou Pierre. All these 
settlements extended from the Mississippi back for 15 or 20 miles. A few years after- 
wards the Scotch Highlanders from North Carolina arrived, and formed a colony upon 
the upper branch of the Homochitto, 30 miles eastward of Natchez, and their members 
were at a late period increased by others from Scotland. * * * In 1770 emigrants 
came from New Jersey, Delaware, and Virginia, by the way of the Ohio, and three 
years afterwards a much greater number advanced by that route. ^ 

In order to get a clearer conception of the growth of the Alabama 
country itself, it is desirable to point out ( 1) the four separate settle- 
ments within the present Alabama from which as nuclei the State 
has developed and ( 2) to indicate briefly the lines of travel by which 
these settlements were reached : 

(1) In the early days territorial Alabama was made up of four 
distinct districts, based on the river systems to which they belonged, 

(a) The oldest of these settlements was, of course, that at Mobile, 
which was founded by the French and later developed by the English 
and Spaniards. These settlers came by water. Later, Americans 
appeared and settled above and around Mobile in what is now Bald- 
win, Mobile, and Washington Counties, even before all of -this had 
become American territory. In 1792, after Mobile itself, the most 
populous of these settlements was that upon the Tensas Kiver. It 
was composed of both Whigs and Loyalists, the latter having been 
driven from Georgia and the Carohnas. This settlement was reached 
overland from Georgia, the creeks and rivers being passed on rafts, 
and household and other utensils being carried on pack horses. 

(6) Next after Mobile came the American settlements on the 
Tombigbee River in the vicinity of old St. Stephens. This section 
contained the oldest American settlement in the State, and m- 
cluded a settlement of Georgians on the Alabama, a few miles above 
its confluence with the Tombigbee. This was made in 1777 and is 

I Pickett's Alabama, Owen's ed., pp. 322-323. 



12 PUBLIC SCHOOI. EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

believed to be one of the earliest settlements within the present 
limits of the State. The settlers had come overland through the 
Creek country from Georgia. In 1800 these settlements were 
included within the limits of Washington County, Mississippi Ter- 
ritory (now in Alabama), and a ferry across the Alabama River over 
Nannahubba Island, which facihtated the movements of immigrants, 
had been estabUshed as early as 1797. After the opening of the 
Federal Road the ferry was moved farther north. 

From the time that the claims of Georgia to the Mississippi Ter- 
ritory were extinguished (1804), immigrants began to flock into whal 
is now Alabama. One party left North Carolma, scaled the Blu< 
Ridge with their wagons, and descended into the valley of the Ten] 
nessee. At Knoxville they built flatboats and floated down th( 
river to the Muscle Shoals, where they disembarked their goods 
placed them on pack horses which had been brought overland froi 
Knoxville, and from the Muscle Shoals as a new basis, departed over] 
landfor the English settlements on the Tombigbee, about St, Stephens 
in southern Alabama, thus traversing in a journey of 120 days froi 
North Carolina nearly the whole length of the present State froi 
north to south.^ 

(c) The northern section of Alabama, the Tennessee VaUey region, 
was settled mainly from Tennessee as early as 1787, and in the 
earHer period filled up more rapidly than some of the other sections. 
These immigrants came overland from the Cumberland settlements 
or floated down the river in flatboats from the settlements farther 
east. 

{d) The fourth district was that along the Alabama River, with 
centers near Claiborne, in Monroe County, and along the Alabama 
River from the confluence of the Coosa and Tallapoosa Rivers down 
to and including the present city of Montgomery. This section was 
settled mainly by Georgians and Carolinians, who came in over the 
Government Road. From these four centers population grew and 
extended into the intervening sections. 

(2) The lines of travel by which immigrants went into this new 
territory are indicated as foUows: The Indians — the Creeks, Chero- 
kees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws — had some well-defined trails 
through this country, and while these trails varied somewhat from 
one period to another they became in the main the basis of the 
routes for the French and EngUsh invasion. These Indian trails 
were followed by Indian traders and these in turn by the first immi- 
grants, and in this perfectly natural way became the highways 
along which passed the settlers seeking new homes. 

It will be sufficient to consider these highways under the general 
division of northern and eastern roads. Tlie northern route led 



1 Pickett's Alabama, Owen's ed., pp. 466-467 



EVOLUTION OF THE STATE. 13 

down the Tennessee River from Knoxville to the neighborhood of 
the Muscle Shoals. From the Shoals immigrants from Virginia and 
North Carohna, after floating down the Tennessee, went across the 
country with pack horses along the route later known as Gaines's 
Trace until they struck the Tombigbee at Cotton Gin Port in the 
present Monroe County, Miss., and thence to St. Stephens by water. 
On the other hand, others, instead of taking to the Tombigbee route, 
left Gaines's Trace and went south by land over the open prairie. 

In 1801 the Government secured by treaty with the Chickasaws 
and the Choctaws the right to open a road from the Nashville country 
to the Natchez district. This road crossed the Tennessee River at 
Colbert's Ferry and was also utihzed by immigrants coming into 
Alabama from the Tennessee country. About 1805 the Government 
acquired from the Cherokees the right of way for a road from Knoxville 
down the river. This road crossed the Tennessee at the Muscle 
Shoals and then joined the Natchez Trace. 

The other great route was that which led to central Alabama from 
Georgia. It was secured by treaty with the Creeks in 1805. This 
route did not differ essentially from the older trade routes that in 
tiirn followed the Indian trails. The one leading to Alabama struck 
Georgia at Augusta, crossed the Savannah there, and branching, 
turned north and northwest to the Cherokee and Creek country. 
Another branch turned west to the territory of the Lower Creeks 
which it struck at the Ocmalgee. It passed old Fort Hawkins 
(near Macon) and thence to the Chattahoochee not far from the 
present Columbus, Ga. It passed to the south of Montgomery, 
along what is now the eastern boundary of Monroe County, to old 
Fort Mims, from which one arm reached out to Mobile at the south 
and the other to St. Stephens farther west, whence it passed on 
across the Choctaw country to Natchez. In the early days this 
road was in reahty a mere trail — marked by three notches cut in 
the trees. The houses of accommodation were few in number and 
indifferent in kind, being kept by Indians and halfbreeds. The 
rivers and creeks were unbridged and without ferries.^ 

With the improvement of the road by the Federal Government, 
the use of this route much increased. Hamilton says^ it became for 
Alabama what the Via Appia was for the country south of Rome, 
and Pickett telLs us that by 1810 the population of Washington 
County, Ala., was about 6,000, made up of Georgians and Caroli- 
nians who had come in over the "Three Chopped Way" from the 
east, and of Tennesseeans who had come down from the north. 

Jackson's miUtary road cut southwardly from the Tennessee 
River into the Creek country of eastern Alabama, and the "great 

> Pickett's Alabama, Owen's ed., 4S6. 

*See Hamilton's article on early roads in Alabama, Publications Alabama Historical Society, II, 39-56. 



14 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATIOlSr IIST ALABAMA. 

Tennessee road" to Jones's valley in Jefferson County made access 
to the north easier still. But these roads belong to the later period 
of development and growth, rather than to the earher one of explora- 
tion and settlement. 

In the Memorial Kecord of Alabama Mr. Thomas H. Clark calls 
attention to the boat as an emblem of progress during the earlier "^ 
days. This may be illustrated by the history of 90 barrels of flour 
sold in Montgomery in 1822. This flour was made from wheat 
grown in Washington County, Va., was ground on the Hols ton 
River 10 miles away, floated 150 miles down that river on flatboats, 
then 40 miles up the Hiwassee, then 10 miles up the Okoa (Ocoee) 
to Hildebrand's Landing, then 12 miles by portage across country 
to O'Dear's, on the Connussowga,^ thence by flatboat again into the 
Coosa, and thence to Montgomery, where it arrived after a journey 
extending from February 20 to April 27. Even this long haul 
was then found to be more profitable than to bring up freight by 
flatboat from Mobile. But this era was now passing. In 1821 a 
steamboat had arrived at Montgomery, from Mobile, in 10 days, 
and as soon as the steamboat had been adapted to commercial uses 
the problem of transportation was solved as fully as it could be 
until the coming of the railroad. 

Thus we see immigrants came into the new land by all water or 
by all land routes, and by routes that were part one and part the 
other; they came with pack horses and on foot; later with rolling 
hogsheads, even ox-drawn, and finally by wagon. They came as 
individuals, as families, and even as communities. They brought 
with them their institutions, culture, religion, industries, and educa- 
tion. It was a new volkerwanderung of English-speaking men. 
The instinct that for two centuries had been driving their fathers to 
America now sent them into a new wilderness in pursuit of the same 
ideals — fortune, happiness, and liberty. 

The United States Census for 1880 indicates the distribution of the 
population in Alabama from the various contributing States, and 
this may be assumed to be essentiaUy correct for the earher decades 
also. According to these census maps, which undertake to show the 
localities to wliich emigrants from the older States removed, the 
majority of the North Carolina immigrants were settled in the north- 
eastern and black-belt counties of the center. The South Caro- 
linians, spread over nearly the whole of the eastern half of the State, 
had occupied the black belt, and in considerable force had pressed 
over to the western boundary. The Virginians went into the black 
belt, occupied the eastern part of the Tennessee Valley, and made 
their homes in the southwestern comer, in Washington and Mobile 

1 During this period there was much discussion in Tennessee on the question of uniting these rivers by 
a canal. In 1826 Tennessee chartered a company to cut such a canal from the Hiwassee to the Coosa, 



EVOLUTION OF THE STATE. 15 

Counties, for they represented a large part of the original immigi'ant 
settlers. The relation of Georgia to Alabama is like that of a natural 
overflow, being heaviest in the eastern half , but reaching the western 
boundaries in considerable numbers, except in the extreme north- 
west corner and on the middle and headwaters of the Tombigbee, 
but increasing in numbers again in Washington and Mobile Counties 
in the extreme southwest and on the banks of the Perdido. 

In a preeminent degi'ee does the Tennessee population represent 
the idea of an overflow. It was heaviest in Jackson, Lauderdale, Lime- 
stone, and Madison Counties, all of which lie north of the Tennessee 
River. The next in importance for their Tennessee population are 
Colbert, Dekalb, Lawrence, Marshall, and Morgan Counties, which 
represent the first tier of counties south of the Tennessee River. 

It seems fairly accurate to say that the various sections of the 
State during the early days had a more or less distinct and charac- 
teristic population of its own, one which was fairly differentiated 
from other communities by the source from which that population 
was derived. The one exception to this general statement is the 
black belt that lies on both sides of the Alabama River and includes 
the counties of Montgomery, Lowndes, Autauga, Dallas, Perry, 
Marengo, Hale, Greene, and Sumter. This was settled early and in 
common by immigrants mainly from Virginia and the Carolinas, who, 
being attracted by the fertiUty of the soil, brought in large bodies of 
slaves and began raising cotton. 

In the early days and until the time of the Civil War Alabama 
and Mississippi performed for the old Southwest the function which 
Ohio and Indiana performed for the old Northwest. They served 
as a stopping place, as a sort of reservoir, in which one or two genera- 
tions spent thek lives before the movement into the newer golden 
West was resumed. The census records show that migration from 
Alabama has been uniformly westward, overflowing heaviest into 
eastern Mississippi, then jumping over the high lands of the center, 
settling in the Mississippi Delta country; thence crossing the river 
into upper Louisiana and all of Arkansas, except the northern quar- 
ter, and thence into eastern Texas. 



Chapter II. 
PRIVATE SCHOOLS BEFORE THE CIVIL WAR. 



As the majority of the first settlers of Alabama came from the 
older Southern States, they brought with them the educational sys- 
tems that there obtained. These systems produced private schools 
and academies — organized, conducted, and supported independently 
of any State action. The most expected from the State was incor- 
poration. This gave the trustees a legal existence, and endowed 
them with full powers to conduct their business. The first act of 
mcorporation was issued in 1811; many of these acts gave special 
favors; this favoritism became so bad in 1856 that Gov. Wmston 
vetoed various college and academy acts and demanded that all 
schools be placed "on the same favorable footing" by general law 
and that no special favors be granted. But the system was then in 
the ascendant, and the special acts of incorporation became law over 
the governor's veto. This tendency may be shown by the statement 
that there was no general law exempting school property from taxa- 
tion till 1832. Before that it was taxed or not taxed according to 
caprice or pull. In the same way some institutions were expressly 
allowed to raise money by lottery, while others were not. The char- 
ters were, as a rule, drawn in the most general terms. This indefi- 
niteness may have been due to lack of experience in educational 
legislation, but it was more probably intended to give the widest scope 
for educational endeavor. The acts, most of them based on the same 
stereotyped model, recited the names of persons who were to sei-ve 
as trustees, the name of the new institution, in very general terms 
the purpose for which it was organized, the powers of the trustees 
and officers, the character and kind of education that might be given, 
the power to confer distmctions, diplomas, favors, or degrees, and 
the amount of capital that might be held, which was generally fixed; 
exemption from taxation was often specifically granted * and was 
generally coupled during the later years with a provision against the 
selling of liquors withm a certain distance and in earlier years with 
the provision to raise money by lottery. 

No report to a State authority was at any time required; no super- 
vision or inspection under public conduct was to be exercised. The 

J Act of January, 1832, exempted from taxation all houses and lots held by incorporated academies as 
long as used for educational purposes. 

16 



PBIVATE SCHOOLS BEFORE THE CIVIL WAR. 17 

State was conteut to give the schools official life and then let each 
work out its own salvation. It was a policy in which there was a 
literal survival of the fittest. 

Some of the leading institutions chartered in Alabama before the 
Civil War, and their distmctive features, are as follows: 

I. PRIVATE SCHOOLS SUPPORTED ENTIRELY FROM PRIVATE SOURCES. 

Pickett says (p. 469) that John Pierce established the first Ameri- 
can school in Alabama in 1779 at the Boat Yard on Lake Tensas. 
"There the high-blood descendants of Lachlan McGillivray, the Taits, 
Weatherfords, and Durants, the aristocratic Lindners, the wealthy 
Mimses, and the children of man}^ others first learned to read." 

With the organization of the Territory of Alabama, the cause of 
education came to the front. At the meeting of the first Territorial 
legislature hi January, 1818, Gov. Bibb recommended the encourage- 
ment of education and the establishment of roads, bridges, and fer- 
ries, and the assembly responded to the governor's recommendations. 

At the next session the Territory took a unique way of givmg what 
was practically an endowment to two of the academies then at work. 
The law permitted the banks at St. Stephens and Hunts ville to in- 
crease their capital stock b}^ selling shares at auction. The profits 
to the extent of 10 per cent were to go to the stockholders; any profits 
above 10 per cent were to be applied to the support of Green Academy 
in Madison County and St. Stephen's Academy. We have no report 
as to how much was received for education under this law.^ 

With the organization of the State the chartering of educational 
institutions begins in earnest. It may be assumed that these char- 
ters in most cases represent work projected, but not aU were in this 
class, for the acts of incorporation sometimes state that the institu- 
tion was already in working order. The following list does not give 
all that were established; only those institutions are here mentioned 
wliich seem to illustrate soms principle. 

1811. 

The first legislation on education m what is now the State of Ala- 
bama was by the Mssissippi Territory in 1811, when it chartered an 
academy in Washington County. It was called Washington Acad- 
emy, and the exact location was to be fixed. It was made free from 
taxation, and given authority to raise $5,000 by lottery. In 1814 
tliis act was so amended that the proposed academy might be located 
in either Washington or Clarke Coimty, which amendment would 
seem to indicate that the academy had not yet gone beyond the paper 
stage. 

1 Pickett's Alabama, Owen's ed., 634, 
75075° — 1.5 'I 



18 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

1812. 

Green Academy, in Madison County; tlie trustees were empowered ' 
to locate the academy and to contract for buildings ; they were to be 
free from taxation and might raise $4,000 by lottery. By act of 
December 13, 1816, Green Academy was given $500 from the Terri- 
torial treasury. 

1818. 

St. Stephens Academy incorporated. By act of December 13, 
1816, an academy of this name had been given $500 from tlie Terri- 
torial treasur3^ This was presumably the academy in Washington 
County, first chartered in 1811. ' 

1820, 

Solemn Grove Academy, Monroe Count}''. Estate of corporation 
limited to an annual income of $10,000. ' 

1821. 

Sparta Academy. Lottery for $2,000 for buildings. 
Montgomery Academy. Lottery for $5,000 for buildings. 

1822. 

Athens Female Academy, Limestone County. 

Jefferson Academy, Elyton; might hold $10,000 in real estate and 
raise $5,000 by lottery. 

1823. 

Huntsville Library Company. James G. Birney was one of the 
incorporators. 

Claiborne Academy, Monroe County. Amended in 1824 so the 
trustees could purchase a site and locate the seminary. 

1825-26. 

Coosawda Academy, Autauga County. Allowed to hold $10,000 
worth of property. 

Concord Academy, Greene County. Its annual mcome was not 
to exceed $10,000. 

Moulton Library Company. Incorporated and allowed to hold 
property up to an annual value of $10,000. 

Milton Academy, Montgomery. To raise $3,000 for buildings by 
lottery and to hold property of not over $3,000 per j^ear. 

Four other academies incorporated. 



PRIVATE SCHOOLS BEFORE THE CIVIL WAR. 19 

1826-27. 

Act for school on the Lancastrian plan at Huntsville; lottery for 
$2,500 to be devoted to buildings. 

Greenville Academy, Butler County; was allowed to hold $10,000 
in property and to raise $5,000 by lottery. 

Tuscaloosa Library Company, a joint stock company, but banking 
powers especially forbidden; lottery to raise $1,000; limit of property, 
$5,000. 

1827-28. 

Henry County Academy and Court House, to be built out of a 
$5,000 lottery. 

Phylomathian Society, at Sommerville, incorporated and given 
power to raise $500 by lottery to purchase a library. 

Frankhn Female Academy, Russellville, Franklin County. Build- 
ing already erected; exempted from taxation; apparently first insti- 
tution thus specifically exempted; male and female departments 
separate, but under same management. 

1828-29. 

Agricultural Society, Greensborough ; property limited to $5,000. 

Wilcox Society, Wilcox County, "for encouragement of litera- 
ture;" might hold $10,000 tax free. 

Athens Male Academy, Limestone County. Teachers and students 
exempted from miUtary service during school sessions. 

1829-30. 

I^a Grange College. Act provides 50 trustees; limit of property, 
$300,000 ; miglit estabhsh a preparatory or primary school and confer 
degrees, a purely literary, scientific, and undenominational institu- 
tion, as the trustees are ''prohibited from the adoption of any system 
of education which shall provide for the inculcation of the peculiar 
tenets or doctrines of any religious denomination whatever." Appar- 
ently the first institution after the university empowered to confer 
degrees. 

1830-31. 

Tuscaloosa Female Academy was exempt from taxation and was to 
raise $50,000 by lottery. 

Jefferson Academy, Elyton, Jefferson County, was chartered with 
a property valuation limit of $10,000. It was composed of two 
schools, a male and a female, each distinct and separate from the 
other. (See also 1822.) 

Seven other academies chartered this year. 



20 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

1832-33. 

Summerville Female Seminary, Morgan County. Stock company 
with private stockholders and a capital of $20,000. 

Academy near Statesville, Autauga County. Lottery for $5,000 
authorized for building. This academy seems to have been incorpo- 
rated for the purpose of getting the lottery. 

1833-34. 

Alabama Institute of Ijiterature and Industry; property limit, 
$200,000. This is like aU other acts of incorporation, only bigger. 

The Manual Labor Institute of South Alabama, Perry County, was 
incorporated December 16, 1833, and made big promises which were 
never mentioned again, even in the text of the law. It might confer 
degrees "in the arts and sciences," and the trustees might govern 
the students "by rewarding or censuring them," but there is no 
further mention of manual labor beyond the title, and in other 
respects the institution was like others. The title was changed to 
Madison College in 1839. 

1834-35. 

Alabama Female Institute takes over property of Tuscaloosa 
Female Academy. 

1835-36. 

Wesleyan Female Academy, Tuscaloosa, was already in existence 
when official incorporation took place. So with other institutions 
incorporated this year. 

Sprmg Hill College, Mobile County. This institution was to confer 
degrees and to have a president, a professor of divinity and of mental 
and moral philosophy, another of chemistry and natural philosophy, 
one of mathematics, and one of ancient and of modern languages. 
It was permitted to confer degrees. 

1838-39. 

Franklin Academy, Suggsville, Clarke County, might hold not ovei 
80 acres of land, free of taxation. 

The charter of Mobile College indicates an effort lookiiig towarc 
general supervision by some central authority (as the University oi 
the State of New York). The charter was issued and the right t< 
grant degrees was allowed, but the institution must first — 

sufficiently satisfy the president of the University and the president and board 
trustees of the University of Alabama that such a collegiate course is pursued in th^ 
college of Mobile, in the arts and sciences, as will justify the conferring of such degrees 

Sixteen academies were chartered this year. 



PRIVATE SCHOOLS BEFORE THE CIVIL WAR. 21 

1839-40. 

The capital or capital stock of the academies was gradually increas- 
ing in amount, and exemption from taxation was now the rule rather 
than the exception. 

Clayton Male and Female Academy, Barbour County, might "con- 
fer such honors on graduation as to them may seem expedient." 

Evergi'een Male and Female Academy, Conecuh County, no spirits 
to be sold within 1 mile. This provision from this time became the 
rule. 

Twenty-three institutions of the grade of academy chartered; 2 in 
Russell, 2 in Barbour, 2 in Macon, 2 in Benton (now Calhoun). 

1840-41. 

Centenary Institute of the Alabama Conference of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, Dallas County. Allowed a capital of $60,000 
"over and above its library and apparatus;" authorized in 1844-45 
"to confer degrees and grant diplomas." 

1841 (special SESSION.) 

Howard College, Madison, Perry County; $200,000; allowed to 
grant "degrees in the arts and sciences;" evolved from an institu- 
tion organized out of a manual labor school idea. 

1843-44. 

Nine acts passed relating to the academies of the State; none out of 
the ordinaiy nor of special significance. 

1844-45. 

Centenary Institute was authorized to "confer degrees and grant 
diplomas." 

Dayton Literary Association, under the name of the Dayton Female 
Seminary, was authorized to confer degrees. 

The Alabama Medical University, located at Wetumpka and by 
amendment anywhere in the State, was authorized to confer M. D. 
after "two full courses of lectures." 

Twelve acts passed relating to academies. 

1845-46. 

This year nine acts were passed incorporating academies and 
giving some of them authority to confer degrees. The administra- 
tion of the sixteenth section was a matter of increasing significance, 
as seen from the laws. 



22 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

1847-48. 

Nineteen academies chartered; others had their charters amended. 
Some of the acts of incorporation are now very detailed and exact in 
their wording and yet add httle to the subject. This year a general 
act against selhng or giving away liquor to students of the university 
or to pupils of any academy or school was passed. 

1849-50. 

From this time the sympathies of the legislature begin to broaden. 
It is the age of public improvement, of corporations and railroads, 
and legislators now have less time for consideration of the wants of 
local institutions. 

La Grange College, charter and plans enlarged. 

Medical College of the State of Alabama was chartered and located 
at Montgomery. 

1851-52. 

The day of the college was now dawning in Alabama. The uni- 
versity, either expressed or imphed, was also drawing nigh. 

The Central Masonic Institute of the State of Alabama emerged 
from its old chrysahs as the Masonic University of the State of 
Alabama — the second to have the name of university and one of three 
to acquire at this session the name if not the substance of a university.. 

The North Alabama CoUege, located at Huntsville, under the 
Synod of West Tennessee, was chartered, with $100,000 capital. It 
was to have a professorship of agriculture, one of civil engineering, 
and one of the "mechanic or fine arts," as well as departments of law, 
medicine, and theology — a university in the making. 

McGehee CoUege, under the auspices of the Methodist Protestant 
Church of Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, South Carohna, Georgia, and 
other States, already had $30,000 subscribed and with a capital of 
$100,000 was to start as a full-fledged university with power to 
"confer all the degrees of Uterary and scientific distinction." 

Besides the above, there were chartered 4 other degree-conferring 
colleges and 18 institutes, seminaries, and academies. 

1853-54. 

The Southern Military Academy, Chambers County, was allowedl 
to raise by lottery, although this custom had fallen into abeyance 20l 
years before, the sum of $25,000, "to increase the staff of instruc-J 
tion" in the academy; to "enlarge the apparatus; reduce the tuitioi 
and to aid generally." 

Thirteen academies were incorporated. 



PRIVATE SCHOOLS BEFORE THE CIVIL WAR. 23 

1855-56. 

There was this year evidence of friction between the governor and 
the legislature, for we find seven acts incorporating institutions 
vetoed and then passed over the gubernatorial veto. This list of 
vetoed acts included: The Medical College at Mobile; Florence 
Synodical Female College; Chunenugge Female College, Macon; 
Southern University, at Greensborough; Florence Wesleyan Uni- 
versity and the East Alabama Male College, at Auburn. 

In 1857-58, 19 institutions were chartered; in 1859-60 the number 
was again 19, but there was apparent a change in legislative per- 
spective and feeling. The State was awakening to the significance 
of the new industrial era. Many acts related to the chartering of 
railroad, turnpike, and navigation companies; many others to bank 
and insurance companies, and the rampant war spirit was every- 
where perceptible through the incorporation of military organiza- 
tions and the permission to schools to add military instruction to 
their courses. The State, for its part, furnished arms and equipment. 

II. SCHOOLS SUPPORTED IN PART OUT OF PUBLIC FUNDg. 

Although the usual custom in Alabama during the ante bellum 
period was to allow each institution to work out its own educational 
salvation, exceptions to the rule were numerous and important. 
The lottery provision in so many of the early charters may be con- 
sidered a sort of subsidy from the public, and we have seen how, as 
early as 1816, Green Academy and St. Stephens Academy each 
received a gift of $500 from the Territorial Legislature of Misissippi, 
apparently without any equivalent or any limitation on the way it 
might be expended. The second Territorial Legislature of Alabama, 
that which met in the fall of 1818, after allowing the two banks in 
the Territory to increase their capital stock, required all profits over 
10 per cent to go to the two academies mentioned above. 

There were also early in the nineteenth century mission schools 
established among the Choctaws and Chickasaws of Mississippi 
that had indirectly an influence on the whites in Alabama and 
received Government assistance. These schools were under the 
direction of the missionaries of the American Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions and were established in 1812 and 1819. 
They were industrial schools in the modern sense. The boys were 
taught to plow and to hoe ; the girls to spin and weave, sew and knit, 
make butter and cheese, and keep house. So successful were they 
that in 1824 the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign 
Missions was reported as having 10 schools with 39 teachers (em- 
ployees) and 208 pupils among the Choctaws. These schools cost 



24 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 



$26,109, of which the Federal Government paid S2,350 tuition. 
Among the Chickasaws there were reported two schools with 26 
teachers and 75 pupils. They cost $3,283, of which $900 was paid 
by the United States. It was reported that these Indians, unlike 
those of the present day in the farther West, were anxious to have 
more schools and that in 1825 the Choctaws had been appropriating 
out of their funds held by the Federal Government $12,000 per year 
for nearly 20 years for education and that the Chickasaws had given 
at least $30,000 for the same end.^ 

By an act of 1823 Green Academy, after paying $400 for a slave 
killed while working the public roads, was allowed for five years the 
fines and forfeitures collected in Madison County. 

An act passed in 1824 provided that the county court of Baldwin 
should erect ferries over Tensas River, Mobile River, and Mobile 
Bay and let them to the highest bidder. The rents from these 
ferries were to be a "perpetual fund for the support of an academy 
and an hospital in the County of Baldwin." 

In 1825-26 schoolmasters, teachers, and students were exempted 
from njiUtary duty by act of the assembly. 

In 1826-27 a memorial to Congress in behalf of the Lafayette 
(Female) Academy at La Grange recites that a "handsome building," 
but of small dimensions, had been erected "for both sexes," that it 
had been in operation for 12 months with 80 or 90 students. The 
memorial then asks for a quarter section of land, "which quarter -; 
section is extremely sterile and is of no value" except as a site, and 
for other quarter sections up to 15. 

The Valley Creek Academy, Dallas County, incorporated in 1828- 
29, was to have the sixteenth section lands. They were to be sold 
find the income devoted to the use of the academy. This act was 
repealed just a year later. 

In 1830 a joint memorial of the legislature to Congress recites that 
"common schools are not places at which females can receive more 
than the first rudiments of education," and for that reason asks 
two sections of land in each county for female academies. 

By act of 1832-33 the Blountville Academy was to have "a fair 
proportion of the net annual proceeds" of the sixteenth section 
fund. In the same way the trustees of Pendleton Academy at 
Coffeeville, Clarke County, were to control and administer their 
sixteenth section. 

An act of 1835-36 authorizes the trustees of literary institutions 
to deposit their funds in the State bank of Alabama for not less than 
five years, guarantees the principal, and promises 6 per cent. This 
was the beginning of trouble for such institutions. 

1 See Publications Miss. Hist. Society, vol. 8, p. 589 et seq. 



PRIVATE SCHOOLS BEFORE THE CIVIL WAR. 25 

Clayton Male and Female Academy, in Barbour Comity, chartered 
in 1839-40 vnth. a $20,000 exemption from taxation and with authority 
to "confer such honors on graduates as to them may seem expedient," 
was to have the sixteenth section lands of its towTiship. 

In 1843-44 the military academy at Eufaula, a private institu- 
tion, was furnished by the State with arms, and this custom became 
progressively more and more common. 

In 1845-46 we fuid an act which dhects the township commission- 
ers to distribute funds pro rata, whether the children attend in that 
district or elsewhere, and to pay for those who go outside the district 
to school. 

But as time moved on toward the turning point of half a century 
it became more and more evident that the center of interest was 
gradually changing from the old private academy to the new public 
school. It was fate that the former should decrease, while the latter 
should increase. 



Chapter III. 

ADMINISTRATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS, 1819- 

1914. 



The citizen of Alabama had had the sixteenth section lands as a 
basis for pubHc school support presented for his consideration from 
the earliest times. It was recognized in the ordinance under wliich 
the Mississippi Territory was organized; it was in the enabUng act 
of March 2, 1819, which organized the Alabama Territory, and in 
the State constitution of 1819. "Schools and the means of educa- 
tion shall forever be encouraged," that instrument said, and it 
further directed that measures be taken to preserve from waste 
"such lands as are or hereafter may be granted by the United States 
for the use of schools within each township." It follows that when 
the Alabamian came to administer the sixteenth section lands for 
the benefit of his local schools he was on ground already familiar, 
at least in theory. 

The earliest acts dealing with the sixteenth sections sought to 
make them a source of income for the schools, and it seems proper 
to review briefly the acts passed during the generation preceding 
the adoption of the State- wide public school law on February 15, 
1854. In this way clearer comprehension can be had of what was 
attempted, although the laws themselves are disjointed, discon- 
nected, and without logical relations. 

Passing over, as immaterial, aU the acts dealing with the seminary 
lands, since these belonged to the university, the legislature of the 
newly created State, on December 17, 1819, among its very first acts, 
passed one providing for leasing the school lands "for the purpose of 
improving the same. " In 1820 the limit of leases was extended, 
and there begins a series of special acts modifying the original law in 
favor of particular claimants that in time worked havoc with the 
school lands. On January 1, 1823, a more elaborate act regarding 
the leasing of lands and the organization of schools was passed. 
Under the new law the county court was to appoint three school 
commissioners who were to survey the school lands, plat and lease 
them at auction for 10 years. Improvements might in part take 
the place of the annual rental. Another act of the same year allowed 
the people interested to fix within certain limits the length of their 
leases. 
26 



ADMINISTRATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS. 27 

In 1825 is to be found the first incorporation of a school township, 
the purpose evidently being to give its trustees greater liberty of 
action. In this case they were authorized to lease their lands for 
99 years to the highest bidder, the upset price being $17 per acre, 
reduced in 1827 to $12. The proceeds were to be invested in 
United States Bank or State bank stock, the interest only being 
used for the support of schools. Other acts of incorporation pro- 
vided for sale or lease, under varying conditions of price and time. 

The fortunes of the Alabama public school lands are inseparably 
bound up with those of the State bank. Under the original charter 
of the bank of the State of Alabama (1823) fmids arising from the 
sale of university lands were invested as a part of its capital stock. 
By act of January 15, 1828, it was provided that the school com- 
missioners should submit to the voters of the township the question 
of the sale of their school lands. The notes received in payment bore 
6 per cent interest and were to be deposited in the State bank. The 
principal as collected might be invested in bank stock paying 6 
per cent interest and guaranteed by the State. 

In the thirties there was developed a tendency, encouraged by 
special acts, to withdraw this prmcipal from the central bank and 
redeposit it in the branch bank, in order that local borrowers from 
the townships where these funds originated might be favored. This 
legislation in favor of local borrowers hampered the bank administra- 
tion and was doubtless an additional cause of loss to the fund.^ 

An act of November, 1837, provides for either lease or sale. The 
proceeds, deposited in the State bank or its branches, were to be 
regarded as the "capital stock of the said township, " and were not to 
be diminished, the interest alone being used for schools. 

It would appear that the terms authorized by this act were pop- 
ular, for much land was sold. But trouble soon began, for at the 
very next session private acts were passed extending for certain 
individuals the time of payment. In 1839-40 the bank was given 
authority to extend all notes for four years, and in 1843-44 by joint 
resolution they were again extended for a year. In 1842-43 a general 
act had provided for the cancellation of sixteenth section sales when 
it was thought that "by reason of the insolvency of the purchasers 
* * * or from other cause," the sale could not "be made produc- 
tive." As a result the legislature was swamped in 1843-44 and 
1844-45 with private acts providing for cancellation of sales. These 
requests came principally from Russell, Talladega, Tallapoosa, 
Wilcox, Washington, Barbour, Dallas, Sumter, Greene, Marengo, 
Cherokee, Lawrence, and Chambers Counties, a majority being in 

' The chapter on the history of banking in Alabama, printed in Knox's History of Banking in the United 
States, and written it is believed by James H. Fitts, of Tuscaloosa, states that under the act of 1828 some- 
thing like $1 ,300,000 of sixteenth section funds were invested in the State bank, but it is believed that 
this is an overestimate, as will be seen later. 



28 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

the black belt wliich represented the highest degree of mdustrial 
development the State had then attained. 

In the meantime the State had entered on a new era of prosperity, 
everybody was speculating and borrowing, and the State bank was 
making so much money that on January 9, 1836, direct State taxa- 
tion was abolished and on the State bank was placed the burden 
of "defraying all the necessary expenses of the government" of the 
State up to $100,000. The school fund came in for its share of 
this prosperity, and the law of January 31, 1839, ordered the bank 
to pay to the schools $150,000 annually; the law of February 3, 1840, 
increased this to $200,000. These laws concern mainly the admin- 
istration and use of the sums earned by the sixteenth section funds, 
and are therefore considered in detail in chapter 5. But it is proper 
to add here that while the share of the Surplus Kevenue of 1836 
coming to Alabama and amounting to $669,086.78 had been made a 
part of the school fund and deposited in the State bank as a part of 
its capital stock, the sum of $200,000 demanded under the law of 
February 3, 1840, as interest by the State for all of its school funds, 
was much more than a fair rate of interest on both the sixteenth 
section and Surplus Revenue funds would allow, and the difference 
between the actual interest and the sum required must be regarded 
as a privilege tax placed on the bank and its branches for the right 
to do business. It was entirely m accord with the spirit of the times 
which looked to the State bank for the expenses of government. From 
1836 to 1842 ^ State taxation was abolished, and the necessary funds 
for the conduct of public business came out of the profits of the 
State bank and its branches. The bank's success as a financial 
institution made possible the acts of 1839 and 1840. But this pros- 
perity did not last. It was found necessary by February 13, 1843, 
to repeal the act of January 9, 1836, and revive taxation for State 
purposes; and, since the bank could no longer meet its obligations 
either to the State or to the school fund, the $200,000 contribution 
required by the law of February 3, 1840, was also repealed (act of 
Jan. 21, 1843). It would appear that practically the whole income 
of the public school fund was cut off by this failure of the bank. 
What that income was durmg the next five years is uncertam, but 
it is certain that it was unimportant. We shall see how the State 
later provided funds by recognizing the now worthless State bank 
certificates as a valid claim a,gainst itseff, thus creating a paper fund. 

1 Du Bose, Alabama History, p. 116; Knox's Banking says 10 years, 1826-1836. "We are satisfied that 
the profits arising from this fund [the 2 per cent and 3 per cent funds] must have been fconsiderable, for the 
pregnant reason that the legislature by act of 9th January, 1S36, abolished direct taxation for the sup- 
•port of the State Government, and the second section of said act imposes the heavy burthen upon the 
banks of 'defraying all the necessary expenses of the government of this State.' It is evident that the 
banks must have been in a sound and prosperous condition, or this unwise legislation of abolishing all 
taxes would not have been adopted and carried out for eight years before the taxes were reassessed."— Eeport 
of Joint Select Committee on the Two and Three Per Cent Fimds, p. 7, Montgomery, 1860. See the act of 
Jan. 9, 1836, in Session Laws, 1835-36, p. 43. County taxes continued. 



ADMINISTRATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS. 29 

During the decade of the forties the State took steps to secure 
the equivalent of sixteenth section lands for those counties which 
lay withm the Chickasaw cession in Alabama. It was mindful also 
that all sixteenth sections were not of equal value, and as early as 
1828 it sent a memorial to Congress on this subject. In 1848 the 
legislature asked Congress to grant for educational purposes aU 
the unsold lands in the State; another joint resolution of the same 
session, after declaring that the sixteenth sections had "utterly 
failed to accomphsh the noble object" for which they were intended, 
asks that the lands granted by act of September 4, 1841, be apphed 
to the valueless sixteenth sections. 

The legislature failed to receive for educational purposes aU of 
the unsold lands for which they asked, but their memorials even- 
tuated in various Federal acts under which the State was allowed 
to locate lands, some of them in other States and m the Territories 
(i. e., Louisiana, Arkansas, Nebraska), in place of the Chickasaw 
cession lands that had been sold, and to apply "for the use of schools" 
in those townships where the sixteenth sections "are comparatively 
valueless" the 100,000 acres which had been granted by act of 
September 4, 1841, for internal improvements.^ 

In the meantime the State bank had run its brilliant, but unfor- 
tunate course. After meeting the expenses of the State government 
for some six years out of its profits, it failed, with a debt of $14,000,000 
in outstanding biUs in circulation, which cost the State in interest 
$16,840,000 before final liquidation. By act of February 4, 1846, 
the bank was placed in the hands of Francis S. Lyon and others as 
commissioners and trustees for final adjustment. This law gave 
the schools and the university a prior claim by providing that the 
commissioners "retain in their hands a sufficient amount of the 
assets * * * to pay off the amounts that may be due the several 
townships * * * and the interest on the university fund." 

But this was not a final settlement. The matter was up again 
in the session of 1847-48. A senate committee was instructed to 
consider "what further legislation is necessary" for the safety and 
security of the fund, "the amount and condition of that portion 
of the proceeds of the sold sixteenth sections which has not yet 
been collected, and what reasons are proper for its collection and 
safe management." 

The committee report is dated February 1, 1848. The committee 
had examined such of the records as were available and found that 
on December 1, 1847, S953,835.38 had been collected from school 
lands sold, and that the interest then due on these sums was $73,- 
030.19. They asked the bank further, "What disposition has been 

1 See United States Statutes for Sept. 14, 1841; Feb. 26, 1845, and Mar. 3, 1847; and Alabama laws of 
Jan. 27, 1846; Mar. 4, 1848; Jan. 5 and Feb. 13, 18S0, together with memorials and laws for sessions of 1848-49. 



30 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

made of the money paid into the bank, and what is its condition 
now? " The branch bank at Decatur had "loaned it out indiscrimi- 
nately with other funds, and the amount now forms a part of the 
good, bad, and doubtful debts due the State." This was substan- 
tially the case at the Tuscaloosa branch bank. The branch at 
Montgomery stated that the amount paid in "stands to the credit 
of the several townships and is a charge against the general assets 
of the bank." This seems to have been the case also at Mobile. 
The branch bank at Huntsville reported that the sums paid in 
stood "to the credit of the different sixteenth sections, called prin- 
cipal or capital, no part of which has been drawn out of bank, and 
upon which the bank pays interest quarterly." 

Thus it appears that only at Huntsville Was the sixteenth section 
fund likely to recover anything from the bank; here alone did it 
represent actual cash. 

The committee found further that the banks held school land 
notes to the extent of $453,346.73, of which $208,290.84 was m suit. 
The committee could not discover how much money had been col- 
lected by attorneys, marshals, and other officers and agents of the 
bank, by sheriffs, coroners, or clerks, and never as yet paid to the 
banks. They estimated that not less than $15,000 had been col- 
lected and retained in the hands of school commissioners. 

The policy of the State was now to wind up the banks and dis- 
pense with their services as agents. Two parties then appeared in 
the committee. The minority thought the State should withdraw 
as much as possible from the administration of the funds by turning 
over " to the management of suitable persons in each county * * * 
the uncollected sixteenth section notes and enough of the notes and 
available assets of the banks and branches to equal the amounts 
which have been collected.^ 

The majority of the committee took just the opposite view. In 
the meantime Hon. Benjamin F. Porter introduced into the house 
of representatives a bill — 

for the preservation of the sixteenth section grants, and to establish, permanently, 
in the State of Alabama, a common school fund so as to fully secure the intellectual 
improvement and moral welfare of the youth of the State. ^ 

Judge Porter's bill failed to become a law, although vigorously 
pressed. He made an elaborate speech in its favor, which is quoted 
here because it opposes the arguments of the decentraHzing party, 
whose views had already almost caused the dissipation of the school 
funds of the State, and outlines other plans which were later sub- 

1 See report of the committee on sixteenth sections, Montgomery, 1848, p. 7. 

2 Copy in Curry Collection in Alabama State Department of Archives and Historj', Montgomery, n. t. p., 
n. p., n. d., O., pp. 15. Placed by Owen in his Bibliography as of 1847-48. 



ADMINISTRATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS. 



31 



stantially enacted into law. He showed by citations from Alabama 
court decisions that Congress granted the sixteentli sections — 

to the people of the State, with whom it was then in contract, for the people of the 
townships, that for them a fund might be raised to exist in incessant continuance for 
school purposes. 

He proved also from the law writers that the legislature could not 

give up its trust : 

The act by which the State for the present throws off her obligation to apply and 
secure this fund herself will prove the occasion of an awful responsibility in coming 
times. 

The law authorities all prove, he continued — 

that whether we take the object of the trust or grant, or its letter, the legislature has 
very extensive authority over the fund in applying it to effecting the purpose. 

The opposition said that Judge Porter's bill limited "the perpetu- 
ation of schools in each township." 
He answered: 

Not so; the bill secures these forever, and equalizes the fund by adjusting the 
6ur]")lus income and throwing it upon the township having no income. To this arrange- 
ment the whole people of the State are parties. 

The speaker then branches off into an instructive review of the 
educational situation in Alabama: 

Under the existing system * * * the surplus incomes of these wealthy town- 
ships are usually expended in magnificent palaces, which but shame the cause of 
education. * * * Under this partial system there must be much extravagance, 
much inequality. Instances could be given. * * * In one, no less than $1,600 
is paid for two teachers annually; in another, $3,000. 

He then cites particular counties, with their sixteenth section 
income, the number of children (under 20), schools and pupils 
enrolled : 

School statistics. 



Counties. 


Sixteenth 
section 
inecme. 


Children. 


Schools. 


Pupils. 


Benton 


$534 

214 

7,252 

8,767 

25cts. 


7,054 
3,410 
4,300 
8,912 
2,765 


38 

8 


1 076 


Blount 


154 


Greene 


173 


Sumter 


16 


382 


Clarke 











He stated further that, out of a white population of 335,185, there 
were 22,592, or nearly 7 per cent, above 20 years of age who could 
neither read nor write. 

He then reviewed with some detail the proposals of his own bill, 
some of which will be met again in a more successful one. 



32 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

He proposed the appointment of commissioners to choose an agent 
who was to be practically a State superintendent. The education 
provided for the boys was to be — 

essentially beneficial. It looks to the ordinary duties of manhood, socially and indi- 
vidually; the mechanic arts, agriculture, architecture, engineering * * * I in- 
tend no partial, fanciful system; but a gradual, well-developed method of instruction, 
both for body and soul. 

The girls were to be trained on " a more general and efficient plan 
of education." The bill proposed further the redemption of the six- 
teenth section fund by means of taxation. Says Judge Porter: 

You have banked on this fund and have liquidated your banks. It is therefore your 
duty to redeem it. The plan gives the State the use of the principal and binds her to 
the prompt and perpetual payment of the income, and its application to the gradual 
establishment of schools in eA^ery township in the State. The income will be about 
$100,000 yearly. Schools are secured in every rich township, and the surplus is ap- 
plied to the support of schools in the poorer sections. In consideration of this equali- 
zation, 10 per cent of every revenue collected is carried to the fund. When it is con- 
sidered that the fund is now lost; that it must be redeemed by taxation, upon the poor 
as well as the rich; upon those who have large incomes, as well as those having none 
from their sixteenth sections; no plan can be more equitable or just. 

But Judge Porter's bill failed to pass and the views of the majority 
of the senate committee were finally embodied in the law of March 6, 
1848, for the adjustment of the affairs of the State bank and its 
branches required the rewriting of the State law dealing with the six- 
teenth sections. The new law (March 6, 1848) provided that all 
funds from sixteenth section lands be vested in the State ''as trustee 
for the several townships" (who were the owners) and be paid into the 
State treasury. The pubhc comptroller was to report on the funds 
that were due each township. The governor was to issue to the town- 
ships a certificate of the amounts due each, with additional certifi- 
cates when other amounts were received. The county tax collector 
was required to deposit mth the county treasurer an annual sum 
equal to the interest at 6 per cent on the certificate then held, 
on which the school commissioners were to draw. Funds derive( 
from land sales were no longer to be invested in "State stock oi 
securities." 

A law of 1851-52 securedfor the funds also such sums as had been 
collected by bank officials from purchases of sixteenth section 
lands, but not turned in. For these sums, as for the other moneys 
derived from land sales, the comptroller was required to issue certifi- 
cates of State stock to the proper township. 

It would appear from these laws: (1) That the school fund in theory 
lost nothing by the failure of the State bank, while in reahty it lost 
everything; (2) tbat each county was forced to raise by general taxa- 
tion its share of the sums which it might receive back again under the 



ADMINISTRATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS. 33 

fictitious name of interest if it happened to own sixteenth section 
lands; (3) that by this legerdemain the State shifted from itself to the 
taxpayers the burden of providing the annual interest on a paper fund, 
the principal of which it had invested and lost; and (4) that the same 
policy was kept up when funds were received from new land sales, the 
cash receipts being used and interest-bearing certificates taking their 
place. The superintendents and auditors inveighed against this plan, 
but without effect. It is the scheme in use to-day. 

The seemingly most important school question during these years 
was to find a way by which the income of these sixteenth section funds, 
belonging to the separate individual townships, might be so equalized 
as to serve the State as a whole rather than isolated communities. 
The law of January 31, 1839, did not attempt this equalization; the 
law of February 3, 1840, made such attempt and so did later laws. 
The law of February 10, 1852, even sought to convert the sixteenth 
section funds from local to general State funds. It provided for a 
general election to be held in August, 1853, to decide "whether the 
sixteenth section fund belonging to the several townships in this State 
shall be consohdated or not." But it was provided also that no sub- 
sequent legislature should be authorized by this act "to consohdate 
or put into a common fund the amount that may belong to any town- 
ship that shall vote against consolidation." 

In this connection the comptroller made a report to the assembly 
of 1853 in which he gave a detailed statement of the condition of 
the sixteenth section lands by counties and townships. A senate 
report (Montgomery, 1853, p. 36) in summarizing the "Report of 
the Comptroller of Public Accounts showmg the sixteenth sections 
sold in the several counties in the State, and the amount for which 
each sold," pointed out that there were 1,572 townships, and, assum- 
ing that each had a full sixteenth section, there were 1,006,080 acres 
of school lands. Of these lands there had been sold up to that time 
by 873 townships 558,720 acres, for $1,575,598. Of this sum, 
$1,183,302 had been paid— 

to the State bank and branches and to the treasurer of the State at different times, 
and the larger portion thereof has been funded, and certificates of stock have been 
delivered to the respective townships for their quota of the cash so paid in. 

There was then on hand in notes $392,296 belonging to the town- 
ships. 

Six hundred and nmety-nme townships had not reported the sale 
of land "and have neither a cash capital nor notes on hand," leaving 
447,460 acres of land which were supposed to be worth about one- 
third of the lands already sold. The committee was of the opmion, 
however, that some of these townships "have made sale of their 

75075°— 15 3 



34 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

lands and have neglected to make a return of the notes or the money 
for which the same was sold." 

This report to the senate was signed by J. P. Frazier, who makes 
another report to the senate on the vote in August, 1853, on the 
question of consolidating the sixteenth section funds. It was found 
that 852 had voted for consolidation, 264 against it, and 456 did 
not vote. Of the townships voting, it was found that 199 had 
$123,541 worth of school lands, or an average of $617.90. From 
this it was assumed that the 852 owned $526,280 worth. The com- 
mittee then continues: 

The act, under the provision of which these elections were held, provides that 
nothing therein contained shall authorize a consolidation of the funds of any township 
voting against it. It seems to the committee that a consolidation of the funds of 
the 852 townships voting for consolidation could effect but little good, even if such a 
measure was in itself right and proper, 

for the average interest due to the township would be only about 
$49. The committee then proceeded to argue that, under the act 
of Congress, consolidation could not be legally accomplished, and 
nothmg was done.^ 

In January, 1850, the indebtedness of the State to the school fund 
was placed by a legislative committee at $995,220.97 and the interest 
given as $59,713.26, or 6 per cent.^ In 1851 the treasurer reported 
the 'interest on the common school fund" as $103,640.43 (which 
included the interest on the surplus revenue of $669,086.78 at 8 per 
cent). In that year it was said ''only six States of the Union have 
at this day a larger school fund than Alabama possesses." The 
principal of this sixteenth section school fund, as it was in the forties 
had been lost with the failure of the State bank, but since the cer- 
tificates representing the sums of school money thus invested in the 
bank stock were guaranteed by the State, they became a permanent 
charge on the whole State, the principal being a paper fund only. 

There was also the greatest difficulty in coUectmg solvent out- 
standing notes. Of those then belonging to the public school fund 
the comptroller said in 1851: 

The law gives no facilities for the collection of these notes, and the comptroller is 
imwilling to incur the responsibility of sending them to attorneys in every county 
in the State for collection. * * * In many cases the proceeds of sales of whole 
sections are absorbed in expenses, and in some they fall short of paying the expense. 
* * * It is respectfully suggested that the comptroller be authorized by law to 
bring suit on all sixteenth section notes. * * * This class of debtors has been 
greatly favored, and it would really seem that notes that have been running from 
10 to 15 years, as many of them have, should now be paid as they fall due. 

1 See the committee reports, Montgomery, 1853. 

* In 1848 the income of the sixteenth section fund was estimated at $90,000. This evidently included 
also the Surplus Revenue fund. 



ADMINISTRATION" OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS. 35 

As has been shown ah-eady, the assembly had given many exten- 
sions on these notes or allowed the parties after they had exploited 
the lands to throw them up altogether. 

In 1854 the management of the school fund was transferred from 
the State comptroller to the new State superintendent. There were 
then still more than $100,000 in claims under control of the banks, and 
S300,000 in notes due the fund was in the hands of the superintendent. 
Kepeated extensions of these notes was said to be still the rule, and 
many of them for one reason or another, or for no reason, were never 
collected.^ And, although there were more or less steady additions 
to this fund, coming from lands sold and notes paid, the actual cash 
was covered into the State treasury and went for miscellaneous ex- 
penses. If it was then the purpose of the State to create a permanent 
State educational school fund based on cash or its representatives, the 
neglect and mismanagement which that fund encountered is note- 
worthy. Says Supt. Duval, in his report for 1858: 

The "Educational Fund" is apparently composed of sums credited to the various 
funds above enumerated. ^ In reality these funds have no existence; they are tangible 
neither to feeUng nor to sight; they are legal fictions, having names and "local habi- 
tations " only on the books of the different State officers where such accounts are kept. 
Long since they disappeared from the treasury vaults and went glimmering into the 
dismal abyss of "State debt." Every dollar of the "Educational Fund," except the 
payments which are now being made upon the sales of school lands, is raised directly 
by taxation, and is by no means the result of prudent investment by sagacious 
financiers. 

It appears from the reports of the State bank officials and of the 
auditor that practically all of the sixteenth-section fund accumulated 
prior to 1851, together with the whole of the Surplus Revenue of 1836, 
had been lost ; ^ that these sums, speaking generally, represent about 
one-half of the present total of the fund ; that the sums collected since 
1851 on account of sixteenth-section lands and valueless sixteenth 
sections have been used for miscellaneous expenses; and that they 
have perhaps for the most part brought a fair return to the State. 

The pohcy of using the principal for miscellaneous needs, instead 
of building up with it a true school fund based on interest-bearing 
securities, did not go without criticism. The sharpest criticism and 
clearest reasoning to be found on the subject is in the report of 

1 As late as 1858 the superintendent was demanding from the banks "all books, documents, or notes, or 
other evidence of debt relating to the sixteenth section fund," as provided in the act of February 6, 1858. 
The legislature had also placed on the superintendent the duty of organizing the school for the deaf and 
dumb. And while duties were increasing, the available help in his office was so limited that the tendency 
was for him to become a mere head clerk in his own office, and as his letter books show, attending to the 
petty details of land sales, payment of notes, and the giving of titles, instead of being able to study the ques- 
tion of education in its broader and wider relations to the State as a whole. 

2 The fund created by the law of February 15, 1854, and called the "Educational Fund," included the (1) 
sixteenth section fund, (2) the valueless sixteenth section fund, and (3) the United States Surplus Revenue 
fund of 1836. 

' The Surplus Revenue of 1836 was a State, not a township, fund. 



36 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATTON IN ALABAMA. 

R. M. Reynolds, auditor, for 1869. After quoting the law of March, 
1827, which provides for the sale of the school lands, he summarizes 
the sums received as follows: 

Received prior to December 1, 1860: 

Sixteenth-section fund $1,499,343.83 

Valueless sixteenth-section fund 97, 091. 21 

University fund 300, 000. 00 

Total 1, 896, 435. 04 

Received Dec. 1, 1860, to Dec. 1, 1867 310, 794. 12 

2, 207, 229. 16 
Received since Dec. 1, 1867 209. 75 

Aggregate » 2, 207, 438. 91 

Auditor Reynolds then proceeds : 

The inquiry is very properly made, "What has the State, as trustee, done with this 
money?" Has it been invested in some productive fund? 

No vestige of it can be found in this office of any value whatever, whether in bonds, 
stocks, bills receivable, buildings, or other property; and the only answer which is 
foundof late record is that "it is held in trust by the State for school purposes." * * * 

To the proposition that it is "held in trust by the State," I would say that this 
can not be the fact, as it is impossible for the State "to hold in trust" what does not 
exist. This fund is not in esse and can not be held in trust by any trustee. It is lost 
or misapplied, and this compels the further statement above referred to, that "it is 
assumed " or " held in perpetuity by the State. ' ' By what right does the State assume 
it in perpetuity; certainly not by statute, which provides that it shall be "invested in 
some productive fund." 

If this assumption "in peipetuity " by the State has any significance, it must mean 
that the money has been lost or misapplied, and the State has been driven to the 
necessity of either accepting the amount as a debt or repudiating the trust reposed 
in her. She very properly admits the application of the fund, and says by statute, 
"I will assume it as a debt and pay interest upon it till the debt is discharged." 

Can this fund be, byrightor sound policy, assumed in perpetuity? I answer by 
saying that the State should assume no such right, although she may have, by a tech- 
nicality of law, the privilege of so doing, for, in my judgment, so long as this state of 
affairs continues, she does virtually repudiate the trust reposed in her, by compelling 
the people of the State, who are, by law, the beneficiaries of this fund, to pay as a tax 
or debt that which they should receive as a bonus or gift for themselves and their 
children for school purposes forever. 

A little reflection will satisfy the most superficial thinker that this fund has been 
misapplied or lost by the bad management of the trustees. It has been so used that 
the very object for which it was donated to the people of the State and of the several 
townships has been entirely frustrated and defeated. WTiat was intended as a bonus 
has become a burden. What was to have been an annual gift has become a debt — to 
be paid by direct taxation. 

If the theory that this trust fund should be "assumed in perpetuity" be correct, 
and that the "principal shall never be paid," as is claimed in grave State papers upon 
the subject, then, indeed, it becomes a source of profound thankfulness that the United 
States Government devoted so small a sum as $2,107,438.91 [sic] for educational pur- 
poses, as provision can be made by law for the payment of 8 per cent upon that amount 
by a direct armual tax of $168,595.11 upon the people of the State. If, instead of this 

1 Auditor's figures are $2,107,438.91. 



ADMIKISTEATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTION'S, 37 

amount, the United States Government had given us the munificent sum of $50,000,000 
for educational purposes the people of the State, under the theory and practice of 
"assumption of this fund in perpetuity," would now be taxed for school purposes 
alone the full sum of $4,000,000 annually. The greater the beneficence of the General 
Government, the more dire the calamity to the people, and the more terrible their 
taxation. 

We should then present the anomaly, rarely if ever witnessed in history, of a people 
driven to the verge of bankruptcy by becoming the recipients of most princely 
donations, given by a beneficent government. It is, to me, a matter of astonishment 
that such theory should be deemed correct by any one conversant with the laws which 
govern the management of trust funds, and define their relation to cestui que trusts. 
I fully concur in the following statement of Mr. Joel Riggs, the comptroller of the State 
treasury in 1851 : "Perhaps of all trust funds none has been so greatly mismanaged as 
the school fund of Alabama." 

Until the money due this fund is placed where it will not require a direct levy of 
tax for annual interest upon the people, who are the beneficiaries thereof, it can not 
be called in any just sense a "school fund," but it is as clearly a debt as any other 
portion of her obligations. * * * 

Beheving that the State is solemnly bound to discharge the trust imposed In her, 
in relation to this fund, as before stated, I most earnestly recommend that, by action 
of the general assembly, such laws shall be passed as will, in their execution, restore 
this fund to the condition indicated by statute. 

In his report for 1870 the auditor illustrated the method of pro- 
cedure ill re the sixteenth section lands : 

You will pardon me, however, for referring to one transaction in the matter of the 
sixteenth section fund which occurred during the last year, as it affords all the elements 
of a demonstration as to the bad policy of absorbing United States trust funds given 
for the benefit of schools. The lands situated in Nebraska belonging to townships 
5 and 6, range 1, 2, and 3, east, in Alabama, were by provision of law sold for the 
benefit of the children of those townships. The United States provides that the 
money accruing from the sale of such land should be "invested in some productive 
fund, the proceeds of which shall be forever applied for the use and support of schools 
within the several townships, * * * for which they were originally reserved and 
set apart, and for no other purpose whatsoever." See act approved March 2, 1827. 
These lands were sold for nearly $20,000 and the proceeds of the sale under the pro- 
visions of laws as now in force were placed in the treasury by certificate from this 
office, when the State became liable for the money, and interest thereon, and unless 
the policy is changed by repeal of the laws now in force the people of the State will be 
taxed to the amount of nearly $1,600 annual interest. 

By this one act the debt of the State was increased nearly $20,000. Had this amount 
been invested in United States securities or outstanding State bonds the people would 
not have been compelled to pay larger tax on account of interest upon the educational 
fund. The taxpayers of the State, outside of those townships, had no interest in the 
proceeds of the sale of said lands, and it would have been fortunate for all the tax- 
payers if the money had never been placed in the State treasury.' 

Mr. Reynolds recommended retrenchment in educational matters 
in his reports for 1870, 1871, and 1872, as follows: 

(1) EeUef from payment of interest on trust funds hereafter col- 
lected by requiring them to be funded in United States or other bonds. 

(2) Rehef from perpetual payment of interest on the trust funds 
and bonded debt of the State by the creation of a sinking fund. 

1 Report 1870, pp. 4-5. 



38 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

The reasoning of the auditor was perhaps sound, but he failed to 
recognize that the funds lost in the failure of the State bank had been 
previously taken over by the State and administered as a part of the 
capital of the State bank under a State guarantee. The State had 
borrowed these sums from the township and gone into a business 
which failed. All sense of justice would demand that the State make 
good the loss, even at the expense of the poorer townships. As to 
the sums received from year to year, if they were spent in good faith, 
they did not go into the pockets of individuals; they were not frittered 
away, but secured for the State a proper return and so became a just 
debt. For the time, at least, they reduced taxation, and if spent 
in State undertakings of a permanent character, like roads, buildings, 
or schools, presumably produced an income, tangible or intangible, 
which justified their use. And, finally, since the main source of 
income of a State is taxation on the property of its citizens, a sinking 
fund could be created only by increasing taxes or by devoting to this 
purpose other funds the direction of whose earning power must be 
changed. 

The assembly saw the difficulty which Mr. Reynolds did not appre- 
ciate, and chose as the less of two evils to continue for 12 years longer 
the method then in vogue. By act of March 1, 1881,^ the assembly 
provided that the State treasurer should invest all money received 
by him on account of compromising and settling old claims, ^' together 
with aU other money hereafter paid in on account of the sixteenth 
section lands in the 6 per cent or other bonds of this State." In 
this way the beginnings of a real school fund were laid. This fund 
appears from time to time tor the next 10 years in the reports of the 
auditor and treasurer. In 1883-84 there was $34,100 ready for 
investment, and in 1885 it was reported that 79 State bonds of $500 
each, bearing interest at 6 per cent, had been bought by the school 
authorities on account of this fund. The arrangement did not give 
satisfaction, however, and under a law passed February 28, 1889, 
these bonds were sold, the money received was covered into the treas- 
ury, the idea of building up a perpetual fund abandoned, and a return 
was made to the earher custom of issuing certificates to the townships 
to which the funds belonged and counting the money received as a 
part of the general resources of the State. Alabama has not befieved 
in building up a school fund for posterity. It has reasoned that as 
a matter of natural development the citizens of 1870 would be less 
prepared to educate their children than would those of 1910; there- 
fore the greater progress would be made by using all funds as they 
became available. 

> Laws of 1881, p. 25. 



ADMINISTRATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS. 39 

So unsatisfactory did the general land situation become by 1899* 
that an act was passed authorizing the governor to employ an — 

agent for the purpose of examining into the sale and disposition heretofore made of 
school or other lands belonging to the State, with a view of recovering to the State 
lands which have illegally passed out of the possession and of settling or straightening 
out titles now in dispute. 

By act of April, 1911, section 895 of the Code was amended so as 
to extend and broaden the powers of this State land agent. Besides 
the investigations already undertaken, he was authorized to grant 
rights of way, easements, etc. 

The present agent is Hon. W. J. Martin; with the State superin- 
tendent and the State board of compromise he is working along the 
lines of the original act — 

to recover for the State those sixteenth section lands which, according to the records 
in the land office, still belong to the State as school lands, although occupied and 
claimed in many instances by others. 

Says the State superintendent, in his reports for 1911-12 and 
1912-13: 

It is not improbable that many thousands of acres * * * during the past 50 
years have been lost to the State through a policy pursued in such matters less vigor- 
ously than the interests in hand made necessary. * * * An aroused public interest 
is now manifest on this subject, more pronounced, perhaps, and offering a brighter 
prospect for a clearing of the situation than at any time in the past.^ 

With this purpose in view, suit was brought to recover title to some 
250,000 acres of school lands on the ground that the lands ''still 
belonged to the State, if the defendant had not got a title by adverse 
possession." It was also agreed that the defendant had such title if 
the statutes of Alabama limiting suits like this to 20 years were valid. 
The Alabama trial court ruled that the statutes were valid. The 
State supreme court declared that the agreed statement of facts 
raised the single question whether adverse possession of sixteenth 
section school lands under the code of 1896, section 2794, and its 
predecessors, "was operative to invest title in an adverse holder of 
such lands under color of title" and affirmed the decision of the lower 
court.^ The case was then appealed to the supreme court of the 
United States and came up as the State of Alabama, plaintiff in error, 
V. Schmidt. 

It was argued by representatives for the State that a State statute 
of limitations, whereby lands granted by the United States to a 
specific use are diverted from the use into private ownership, is in 
conflict with the act of Congress making the grant, and void. 

The lawyers for the defendant in error argued that " adverse posses- 
sion against any party in which title is so vested that such party may 

> Law of Feb. 23, 1899. 

* Superintendent's report, 1911-12, pp. 42-43. Same statements in report for 1912-13, pp. 75-76. 

9 Reported in ISO Alabama Reports, 374. 



40 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

grant an indefeasible estate in fee simple ripens into a fee simple title 
by the operation of the statute of limitations." 

In its opinion handed down on January 26, 1914/ the supreme 
court of the United States affirmed the decision of the State supreme 
court: 

The above-mentioned act of Congress, under which Alabama became a State, pro- 
vided that section 16 in every township "shall be granted to the inhabitants of such 
township for the use of schools." Of course the State must admit, as it expressly 
agreed, that these words vested the legal title in it, since it relies upon them for recov- 
ering in the present case. Any other interpretation hardly would be reasonable. 

* * * The argument for the plaintiff in error relies mainly upon Northern Pacific 
Ry. Co. V. Townsend (190 U. S., 267). * * * But it does not apply to a gift to a 
State for a public purpose of which that State is the sole guardian and minister. * * * 
It was held that the State of Michigan could sell its school lands without the consent 
of Congress, Cooper v. Roberts (18 How., 173), * * * qualified permission to sell 
was given to Alabama by a much later act of March 2, 1827. * * * The gift to the 
State is absolute, although, no doubt, as said in Cooper v. Roberts, * * * "there 
is a sacred obligation imposed on its public faith." But that obligation is honorary 

* * * and even in honor would not be broken by a sale and substitution of a fund, 
as in that case; a course, we believe, that has not been uncommon among the States. 

* * * The result of Cooper v . Roberts and of what we have said is that the State had 
authority to subject this land in its hands to the ordinary incidents of other titles in the 
State and that the judgment must be afiirmed. 

The annual receipts from this source are now small — usually not] 
over a few thousand dollars — and come mainly from the School 
Indemnity Lands. ^ It would seem to make little difference whether] 
the State uses this principal for running expenses and pays the interest] 
on it by a tax collected directly or invests it in bonds and collects] 
running expenses through taxes. It seems to be merely a matter of] 
the point of view. In either case the taxes must be paid, and the] 
school authorities have been consistent in their efforts to make up tc 
the poorer counties out of the general fund what comes to the richei 
ones out of their sixteenth section funds. The law for the distribu-| 
tion of public funds ia effect to-day is essentially the same as that 
evolved by Gen, Perry in 1854. The present law provides that: 

In making the apportionment of school money to the several districts, the superin-j 
tendent of education shall first set apart to each township or other school district the! 
amount due from the State thereto as interest on its sixteenth section fimd or other! 
trust fund held by the State, and all townships or school districts having an income! 
from such soiu'ce or from the lease or sale of sixteenth section lands shall not receive! 
anything out of the balance of the educational fund to be apportioned until all other j 
townships or school districts shall have received from the general fund such amount! 
as will give them an equal per capita apportionment with the townships or districts j 
having such income.^ 

1 Eeported in 232 United States Reports, 168. 

2 These are lands '.'which have been heretofore or may hereafter be certified to the State for the use andl 
benefit of the several townships or districts in which was a deficiency in the amount of land originally] 
certified to the State for their benefit." See school laws of 1911, sec. 1782. Income from the indemnity! 
lands is first mentioned by the auditor in 1899. For 1912-13 the additions to the fund were $25,571.23. 

« Law of 1911, sec. 1764, p. 43. 



ADMINISTRATION OF THE SIXTEENTH SECTIONS. 



41 



The total result, then, of the retention of the fiction of a paper fund 
derived from the sixteenth section lands, the payment of interest on 
this fund out of taxes, and the method of distributioQ required by the 
law, by and large, is a straight tax for schools distributed on the basis 
of school population, with a few townships as yet getting something 
more than the average per capita appropriation, but none getting less. 

As the fund available for education from taxation increases, the 
per capita apportionment will grow, and this slight difference between 
the township with the larger sixteenth-section fund and the average 
township will tend to disappear. When this has been accomphshed 
the whole paper fund theory may be abandoned as so much worth- 
less lumber. Its abandonment before that date would be an ill 
reward to those townships which by careful administration or other- 
wise have been able to turn over actual cash for the use of the State. 

It will be of interest to note where the best school lands lay and 
the amount of principal (all paper) owned by each of the counties on 
November 1, 1851, and October 1, 1912. At the latter date the 
school indemnity lands are included in the total. 

Principal of the Sixteenth- Section School Fund. 



Counties. 


Nov. 1, 1851. 


Oct. 1, 1912. 


Counties. 


Nov. 1, 1851. 


Oct. 1, 1912. 


Autauga 


$35,989.07 


$30,038.75 
54,825.00 
33,849.23 
32,544.76 
18,202.90 
10,384.95 
35,053.39 
21,738.94 
30,905.85 
22,062.07 
17,835.57 
35,069.75 
36,916.68 
13,428.57 

6,991.09 
10, 140. 23 

6,114.35 
20,889.39 
12,390.98 
19,353.03 
10,928.87 

3,503.76 

5,791.27 
112,273.19 
14,986.18 
28,289.57 

8,737.28 
15,862.98 

8,951.28 
20,752.26 
11,895.45 
64,286.21 

4,287.50 
63,027.81 


Henry 


$4,419.02 


$17,126.93 
10,471.86 
65,362.83 
48,223.69 
9,086.62 
23, 859. 47 


Baldwin 


Houston 




15,225.30 
21,640.71 
11,916.79 
2,901.41 




5,388.96 
12,299.58 


Benton (now Calhoun) 
Bibb 




Lamar 


Blount 


Lauderdale 


13, 143. 26 
51,236.39 


Bullock 


Lawrence 


63,440 61 


Butler 


18,304.09 

44,238.07 

7,113.29 


Lee 


50,094.10 






45,391.31 
41,024.95 
34,003.35 
68, 103. 02 
21,006.49 
2,501.08 
2,278.71 


51,274.11 


Cherokee 




58, 741. 05 
30,346.85 
121,942.16 
80,592.35 
10,401.68 
19,561.12 


Chilton 


Macon 


Choctaw 


2,258.19 
7,632.42 


Madison 


Clarke 


Marengo 


Clay 




Cleburne 






Coffee 


251.48 


MobUe 


3,819.99 
34, 468. 02 


Colbert 




3,748.37 
59,915.21 
24,086.07 
46,727.39 
41,204.59 

7,390.35 

2,750.61 
33,917.83 

1,224.67 
11,351.79 
66,126.90 
11,943.89 

9,963.46 
39,388.17 

2,011.34 

771.40 

30,509.18 


Conecuh 


12,221.63 

11,465.10 

115. 10 


Montgomerv 


78,481.29 
32,979.58 
82,406.83 
59,859.31 
14,286.91 


Coosa 


Morgan 






Crenshaw 




Cullman 




Pike 


Dale 


3,481.72 
81,395.09 
3,806.57 




4,897.70 
49,553.00 

6,629.89 

25, 401. 54 

120,921.47 

24,201.17 


Dallas 


Russell ... . . 


DeKalb 


St. Clair 


Elmore 


Shelby 


Escambia 






Etowah 




Talladega 


Fayette 


7,928.31 
23,734.31 


Tallapoosa 


18, 108. 37 


Franklin 


Tuscaloosa 


43,263.16 


Geneva 


Walker 


9,476.10 


Greene 


67,161.15 




39,914.62 


Hancock (now Win- 


Wilcox 


55, 692. 16 


ston) . . . 


Total 




Hale... 




1,075,807.64 


2,191,200.35 









The principal of the sixteenth section fund on October 1, 1914, 
amounted to S2,098,.557; the school indemnity fund amounted to 
$158,065; total, $2,256,622. 



Chapter IV. 
THE RISE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN MOBILE, 1826-1865. 



The course of educational development in Alabama is from the 
local to the general, from the city to the State, and for this reason 
the history of the Mobile schools is put first, since they furnished an 
example and a standard for the State. 

The germ of the Mobile system is to be found in the act of January 
10, 1826, by which there was created a board of '' school commis- 
sioners" for the county of Mobile, in which the city of Mobile is 
situated. These commissioners were given full power — 

to establish and regulate schools, and to devise, put in force and execute such plans 
and devices for the increase of knowledge, educating youth and promoting the cause 
of learning in said county, as to them may appear expedient. 

This was the first school act passed by State authority that saw in 
education pubhc duty rather than private enterprise. It was the 
first to attempt the reaUzation of pubhc duty by providing certain 
definite, fixed, and more or less reUable sources of income. These 
were: 

(1) All lands, grants, and immunities already conferred or that 
might be conferred by the State or tlie United States upon the inhab- 
itants of the county, or any organized part of it, for the purposes of 
education. 

(2) The fines, penalties, and forfeitures arising under the act "con- 
cerning the revenue of Mobile County," passed December 25, 1824, 
and including a 2 per cent tax on auction sales of real estate, slaves, 
live stock, etc., and a license tax on shows, theaters, and similar 
amusements. 

(3) A tax fee of $2 on suits in the circuit and county courts. 

(4) Twenty-five per cent of the ''ordinary county tax." 

The act of incorporation also allowed the school commissioners to 
select the equivalent of a sixteenth section of the pubhc land, while 
supplementary acts of 1827 and 1829 provided for a closer collection 
and more careful accounting for these various funds, and granted 
permission to raise $25,000 by lottery ''in aid of the fund for the 
support of schools in said county." An act of December 19, 1836, 
increased the amount to be thus raised to $50,000 and devoted it to 
the completion of what became known as Barton Academy. This 
act made minor changes in the matter of revenue and increased the 
42 



THE BISE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN MOBILE. 43 

total county tax by providing that the school tax should be derived 
from a separate levy equal to ''one-quarter of the county tax." It 
required also that public schools be established and maintained 
throughout Mobile County beyond the limits of the city of Mobile. In 
the meantime the square on which Barton Academy was later erected 
was secured (1830) and much of the money for building was raised 
by Henry Hitchcock. Silas Dinsmore was another supporter. The 
academy building was named for Willoughby Barton, who drew the 
original bill passed on January 10, 1826, creating the board of school 
commissioners for Mobile County.^ 

For a quarter of a century from the time of the first act there were 
numerous supplementary laws changing the details of administration. 
An act in 1840 ordered the erection of suitable buildings in each ward 
as soon as the "school fund on hand may be sufficient"; another, of 
1843, revised the personnel of the school board, made them a close 
corporation with the power of choosing their successors, ordered the 
payment of the debts of the old board out of the school funds and 
declared ''the plain intent and meaning" of the act to be that the 
commissioners should "expend their funds in providing competent 
and suitable teachers." 

Under these favorable auspices the public school system of Mobile 
City and County, independent of the rest of the State, fairly well 
provided with funds and sufficient unto itself, was launched. It was 
to be expected from this recital of its opportunities and resources 
that the system would have sprung full-grown into the educational 
arena. Unhke most of the institutions of the day, the system was, 
in reality as well as in name, a child of the city, and it would seem 
that its commissioners had nothing to do but organize schools that 
would, in the main at least, look toward modern ideas. The com- 
missioners seemed to have had it in their power to become the pro- 
tagonists of public school education in the Southern States, but they 
did not know their day ; they failed to take the rising tide that might 
have led to educational fortune. Instead of leading, for the quarter 
of a century between 1826 and 1851 the school commissioners did 
practically nothing toward organizing and opening schools of their 
own, but distributed the public funds equitably among the different 
parochial schools. ^ The funds thus distributed were, however, too 
small to pay any considerable part of the expense of these private 
schools, and for that reason the school commissioners neither had nor 
sought to have any control over the teachers or schools, and they did 

1 Hamilton, Mobile of the Five Flags, p. 254. 

» This situation may be illustrated by the law of Feb. 4, 1846, which provided that the Methodist in 
Mobile might say when he paid his school tax whether his tax should go to the school of that denomina- 
tion, and, if so, to say also under what conditions children of other denominations might be adfnitted to 
the Methodist school without charge for tuition. 



44 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

• little more than act as agents for the collection of public funds to be 
applied to the use of private schools. 

In 1851-52 the amount thus distributed amounted to $5,550, 
divided as follows: Methodist parish school, $1,200; Bethel schools, 
$1,300; Catholic schools, $1,200; Trinity schools, $500; various 
schools in the county, $1,350. These sums may perhaps be taken as 
about the average amount distributed from year to year. 

This state of affairs became unsatisfactory to all. The Barton 
Academy building was not used by the school board, but was rented 
for private schools and other purposes. It was supposed to be worth 
$40,000, but its income was not over $1,000 per year, and it was pro- 
posed in 1851 to sell the building, reinvest the proceeds to better 
advantage, and so increase the sum available for distribution to 
parochial schools. An act passed February 9, 1852, after providing 
that applicants for teachers' positions should furnish a "certificate of 
competency," gave permission for the sale of the academy building, 
if the people so desired. At once two parties sprang up; one insisted 
on the sale and maintenance of affairs as they then were. The other 
demanded that the Barton Academy building should be used for 
pubhc schools, as had been the original intention, and that pubUc 
schools should be maintained in reality and not in theory only. 

In the Mobile Daily Advertiser for July, 1852, Gen. Walter Smith 
argued that the Barton Academy was not then and never could be 
useful for the conduct of the public schools which were intended to 
give 'Ho all the children of the community, without distinction, a 
thorough common-school education (and no more)." For this pur- 
pose "several plain, substantial schoolhouses in different parts of the 
city would better serve than Barton Academy," for high schools, he 
argued, can not and never should be regarded as a part of the public 
school system; that this buildmg might be sold for $30,000, which 
would produce an annual income of $2,400, to go immediately into 
school work. 

Gen. Smith's argument was met through the columns of the 
Advertiser by K. B. Sewall, who showed a much clearer and more 
advanced conception of the scope of the public school system. In 
other States, he said, the system was threefold: (1) Primary schools; 
(2) grammar schools; (3) high schools; that these three parts made 
up the public school system. The Barton Academy property had 
cost at least $100,000 and was now free from debt, aud its sale, even 
with the idea of erecting other buildings, was unwise. 

It was also msinuated that the act permitting the sale had been 
engineered through the legislature after it was laiown that the people 
were against it. The proposition to sell had created, so the Adver- 
tiser said editorially the day before the election, ' ' a storm of indignation 
such as has been rarely witnessed in this community." 



THE RISE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN MOBILE. 45 

The Advertiser said further: 

The plan of selling the Barton property having been once entertained, despite all 
the difficulties in the way, was prosecuted by some of our citizens with a zest and held 
to with a pertinacity that, had it been wisely directed to perfecting and putting in 
operation a judicious system of schools, would, we must think, have resulted much 
more beneficially to the cause of education in our city and county. 

The election was held August 2, 1852, and the "no sale" tickets 
won by a vote of 2,225 to 244. A new board of commissioners was 
chosen on the "no sale" ticket, with whom were joined four mem- 
bers of the old board. They set to work to alter and repair Barton 
Academy and adapt it to the needs of the new system. A committee 
was appointed to consider and report on the best plan for organizing 
the schools, and their report was accepted on September 16, 1852. 
The resources of the board for the previous year were about $6,000, 
including rent for Barton Academy. This sum was now reduced by 
$1,000, and out of the remainder some old appropriations had to be 
met. But notwithstanding these discouragements, the school was 
opened November 1, 1852. On the opening day there were 400 
pupils; on February 1, 1853, the attendance stood: High school, 109; 
grammar school, 209; primary, 536; total, 854." For a time tuition 
fees were collected "in all the schools" — the amount not specified. 
The system was again passed on by the county electors in 1853, and 
approved by a vote of 1,597 to 869. 

In the summer of 1853, Mr. Willis G. Clark, chairman of the com- 
missioners, visited the schools of other cities, studied their systems, 
and made a report. In 1854 the system was carefully examined, 
modified, and improved in the light of experience. The commis- 
sioners had served without pay, the work had increased, and it was 
now desired to extend tbe system beyond the city limits. A city 
superintendent was therefore appointed, and the city and county 
were divided into school districts. The receipts and expenditures 
for the years 1852-53 and 1853-54 were as foUows: 

Receipts: 

Licenses, auction duties, and taxes $17, 658. 21 

Tuition 10, 889. 81 

Donations, Samaritan Society 300. 00 

Total 28, 848. 02 

Disbursements: 

For country schools 2, 158. 61 

Balance appropriation old board for parochial schools 1, 050. 00 

City branch schools 642. 51 

Teachers 21, 802. 51 

Repairs, painting, salaries of officers, and incidentals 6, 775. 05 

Total 32, 428. 68 



46 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

It appears, therefore, that the average expenditures per year were 
$14,424.01 and the disbursements $16,209.34. The deficit for the 
two years was met on the personal credit of members of the board. 

The detailed report showed that the u>come from tuition was 
greater than that from taxes and that the former was therefore 
necessary for the stability and development of the schools. The 
rates charged, moreover, were lower than those charged at private 
schools and — 

as permits to attend the schools without charge were freely given to all pupils whose 
parents were unable to pay tuition for them, the means of acquiring a good education 
was brought, for the first time in Mobile, or Alabama, within reach of all classes in 
the community. 

It would appear from this extract from the history of the Mobile 
public schools, written by a member of the original board, that an 
efficient school system, without any tuition charges, was at that time 
an impossibility; that the schools then organized were far superior to 
any that had hitherto existed in Alabama; that free tuition was 
granted as a favor to the poor; that other patrons were required to 
pay for tuition, and that therefore the schools were not public schools 
in our sense. But it is evident that the persons mterested m this 
system were maldng an honest and conscientious attempt to supply 
the children of Mobile County with a school S3^stem which had public 
support as its ultimate goal, and it is also stated that they attained 
so high a character that they were patronized even by the rich in 
preference to the best private schools in the city. 

The tliird session showed an enrollment of 1,012 pupils. Laws 
passed in 1854 enlarged the powers of the commissioners, increased 
their resources, and forbade that any part of their funds should be 
used for the support of sectarian schools. In 1855 the enemies of the 
system gathered their forces for a final struggle, were again defeated, 
and in October of that year an institute for the instruction of teachers 
was organized. The act of February 15, 1856, greatly promoted the 
development of the system, by providing that certain licenses should 
go to the schools and by granting an aimual tax ''not exceeding one- 
twentieth of 1 per cent" upon the real and personal property of the 
county. This act was passed by an almost unanimous vote. 

The compliment had been paid the Mobile schools of exempting 
them from the conditions of the general State law of 1854. This local 
autonomy gave them an independence of action and power of taxa- 
tion not enjoyed elsewhere in the State, and so has opened to them the 
path of progressive educational development as yet denied by consti- 
tutional limitations to other sections of the State. 

The expenses for the school year ending July 31, 1856, were 
$21,899.23. The tuition fees collected were $14,712.80, and the total 
income was some $4,000 less than the expenditures. A school census 



THE EISE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN MOBILE. 47 

taken in the fall of that year showed 3,620 school children within the 
city limits and 2,300 beyond, making 5,920 in the county. 

Under the action of the law of February 15, 1856, the income of the 
schools increased. The income and expenditures for the next thi'ee 
years may be tabulated as follows: 

Income and expenditures of the Mobile schools. 



Year ending- 



July 31, 1857. 
July 31, 1858. 
July 31, 1859. 



Income. 



S37,068.25 
44,035.03 
46,681.51 



Expendi- 
tures. 



S38,185.30 
45,232.18 
46,937.35 



These figures indicate a steady, healthy growth, with an ever- 
decreasing margin of the excess of expenditures over income. 

The reports on attendance are not so favorable. In October, 1858, 
there was reported 4,314 city and 2,195 country children. The 
enrollment in the city schools on March 31, 1859, was 1,533, or 35.5 
per cent; the average daily attendance was 1,240, or 28.8 per cent. 

In 1859 the school commissioners took a step backward by deciding 
to abolish the office of school superintendent. This caused the oppo- 
sition again to rally against the schools, but they failed, and the 
schools were strengthened by the trials through which they passed. 

Until the war was in actual progress, the schools were very pros- 
perous; as income increased, tuition charges were reduced and the 
free list extended, so that, had no interruption occurred in this course 
of development, Mobile would have evolved from schools partly sup- 
ported by tuition fees and partly free to a system that would have 
been supported entirely by taxation and wholly free, and thus the 
stigma of pauper schools would have disappeared automatically. 

The schools were kept in operation during the days of the war, 
although with diminished attendance. They were closed in 1865, 
on the occupation of the city by the Federal forces under Gen. 
Granger. They were reorganized and reopened in the fall of that 
year, and a broader field of usefulness W"as developing for them when 
reconstruction came. During the throes of reconstruction, the 
school commissioners suffered imprisonment rather than obey an 
illegal order, and in 1869 had their special privilege of a separate 
system abolished, being absorbed into the State organization. In 
1875 the status of the earlier period was restored and has since been 
maintained; under the protecting aegis of the constitution itself. 



Chapter V. 

THE EXPERIMENTAL PERIOD IN THE ORGANIZATION OF 
A STATE SYSTEM, 1819-1854. 



Turning from the city to the State, from local to general educa- 
tional efforts, it is seen that the period prior to 1854 was distinctly 
empirical. There was in it little besides a few legal provisions that 
probably never lived beyond the statute books; and the few efforts 
made for schools were mainly tentative, for the people were learning 
school keeping in the school of experience. 

The first law to consider the actual organization of schools was 
the act of December 17, 1819, which provided that the county agents 
be empowered to contract with "a teacher or teachers and for a 
school house or houses when and wheresoever they may think 
proper." The agents were made school trustees and given powers 
of superintendence and "the proceeds of each section" were to be 
applied "to the purposes of education alone." There is no record 
that this law produced any particular effect. 

The law of January 1, 1823, was more detailed and specific. It 
provided that the people were to elect three district school trustees 
who were to employ teachers "at an annual salary or at a stated 
price for each scholar," build schoolhouses, "purchase books and 
stationery for the use of the school," and "designate the pupils who 
shall he admitted to the school without tuition fees.^' The teachers 
were to be "duly examined" by the school commissioners. The 
local officers were to report to the county clerks and these to the 
general assembly, and were to include in their report the number of 
pupils "educated gratis." 

This act furnishes a key to the educational mind of the day as it 
appeared in Alabama: School lands were leased or sold; schools were 
free in the old sense, not in our present sense; all might attend, but 
all were not equal; the poor were received at the expense of the 
district; others paid for their tuition, and so the school was neither 
public nor private, but a cross between the two, and the State's 
bounty went only to the poor. 

The law of 1837 provided that district school trustees be elected. 
They were to manage the schools and report their proceedings to the 
county clerk, including the condition of the lands and funds, progress 
48 



EXPEEIMENTAL PEEIOD IN" THE STATE SYSTEM. 49 

of schools, teachers, etc. The county clerks in their turn were to 
report to the governor. 

Up to this time presumably no money had been actually expended 
for schools. Certainly there was no workable law, and no statistics 
of such expenditures are to be had. The first law looking to this 
phase of the subject is the act of January 31, 1839. This act under- 
took to make the public-school system participate in the general 
prosperity of the State and to shape the lines of financial admin- 
istration. The law directed that the State bank and its branches 
should provide annually out of their "net profits" the sum of $150,000 
"for the purpose of establishing and aiding in the establishment of 
schools." It directed further that on demand from the township 
trustees the bank should pay to the township as much, up to a limit 
of $200 and including whatever sum might have been earned by its 
own sixteenth-section funds, as the people had subscribed in the 
previous year. All of this money was to be used in paying for the 
tuition afforded in the previous year. If there were two or more 
schools in the same district, the money was to be divided between 
them "in proportion to the number of regular students at each school," 
but no citizen was to be entitled "to an amount exceeding the 
amount by him actually subscribed;" if there were indigent per- 
sons who wished to send their children to the school, but were too poor 
to subscribe, they were reported by the commissioners and listed as 
subscribing $10 each. The total so subscribed was not to exceed 
$100. A part of the State fund equaling these poor subscriptions 
was to be used exclusively "for the education of the indigent scholars 
of the township." 

By act of February 3, 1840, the amount to be furnished b}^ the 
State bank was increased from $150,000 ta $200,000, and the rate 
of payment was fixed at $12 per pupil. The total contributed to 
each township was not to exceed $400, and this was to include all 
interest earned by the sixteenth-section lands. An amount equal 
to one-third of that asked from the State bank was to be collected 
by private subscriptions and to the commissioners was given the 
power "to say what scholars shall be educated free from charge." 

The laws of 1839 and 1840 evidently assumed that the schools were 
to be organized on local initiative, that certain sums were to be sub- 
scribed and collected and the schools actually taught in advance of 
any State aid; that the upper classes were to take the lead in these 
matters and pay tuition for their children. This is also evident from 
the amount appropriated, for at $12 per head $200,000 could educate 
only about 17,000 pupils, and since in 1840 there were 335,185 white 
persons in the State, the total school population was not far from 
90,000. State activities looked only to the education of the poor. 

75075°— 15 i 



50 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

This situation was greatly modified by the subsequent fortunes of 
the State bank. As has been shown in chapter 3, by 1842 the bank 
could no longer meet its obligations, and the requirements of February 
3, 1840, were repealed by the act of January 21, 1843. 

In the meantime, what about the actual administration of the 
schools? Among other troubles it was apparently very difficult at 
this time to differentiate between public and private (which were 
generally denominational) schools. The question was discussed 
time and again whether parents might send their children to schools 
outside the district and still draw their pro rata of school funds. This 
was decided affirmatively. The repeal and subsequent reaffirmation 
of the law indicates the interest felt in the matter and would seem to 
show that private and denominational schools in this way came to 
receive a part of the public bounty — a view sustained and supported 
by the act of 1848 which provides that the proper proportion of the 
public funds might be paid to ''any other schools." ^ It would seem, 
therefore, that at this time the major part of the public State funds, 
as in Mobile, probably went to private and denominational schools 
and that little supervision was or could be exercised. 

The census of 1840 reports school statistics for Alabama as follows: 
Two colleges, with 152 pupils; 114 academies, with 5,018 pupils; and 
639 primary schools, with 16,243, making a total of 21,413 pupils, of 
whom 3,213 were ''at public charge." 

Four years later comes a statement on the same subject from State 
sources which are perhaps more accurate. The ' ' Tabular Statement 
of Census of Alabama taken in the year 1844" (Tuscaloosa, 1844), 
page 5, reports: 

Number of colleges and high schools 7 

Students in colleges and high schools 626]^ 

Academies 131 

Pupils in academies 5, 266 

Common schools 85S 

Pupils in common schools 21, 982 

Total at all schools 27, 874 

Source material for the educational status of this period is all toe 
small. Educational effort was being made, but the leaders were 
themselves inexperienced. They were learning by experience; tl 
process was both costly and slow, and little record seems to have 
been made of their efforts. Of the flush times represented by thf 
full years of 1839 to 1843, when the schools were receiving some 
$200,000 out of the income of the banks, only the meager records 
already quoted seem to exist. The State documents for the perioc 

> See also the law of Feb. 3, 1846, which orders the commissioners of a certain school district (Demopolis]j 
"to distribute the annual interest * * * among the several scholars residing therein, whether the said 
scholars attend the school or schools established by the legal officers of said township, or any other school.'JI 



EXPEEIMENTAL PERIOD IN THE STATE SYSTEM. 51 

prior to 1854 which have been available give us little light on the 
subject, and for definite statistics we must depend on the Federal 
censuses of 1840 and 1850, incomplete as they are. But it is evident 
that even then the spirit of education was moving on the face of the 
waters of ignorance. Public leaders, vaguely conscious of their needs, 
were groping, blindly, it may be, but nevertheless with hope for better 
things. This is evident from the message of Gov. Reuben Chapman 
to the legislature, November 13, 1849, in which he discusses the com- 
mon schools in general, and agricultural education in particular: 

The agricultural interest in this State is believed to exceed in value, and in the 
number of persons connected with it, all the other industrial pursuits; and while the 
other interests, so much less important, have been more or less fostered, agriculture has 
been suffered to languish, until much of our fertile soil has become impoverished and 
unproductive, from an unskillful and injudicious system of cultivation, and many of 
our citizens have removed, and others are moving, from this State, in search of new 
lands to subject to the same ruinous system. 

That the lands so worn out can be restored to their original fertility, and the system 
of cultivation be so improved as to maintain that fertility and increase their capacity 
for production, the experience of other States leaves no room to doubt. If agriculture 
is the groundwork of all industrial prosperity, and the strength of a State depends 
upon the number, as well as the character, of its population, we are all interested in 
adopting such an improved system in the cultivation of our lands as may increase 
inuneasm"ably the wealth of oiur State, and take away from the most useful class of our 
population all motive for emigration. Nine-tenths of our young men are destined to 
become tillers of the soil, yet we are without a school in the State where scientific 
agi-iculture is taught, when by the establishment of an agricultural school we might 
raise up among us a class of scientific farmers. CiAil engineering and architectiu'e are 
professions by means of which scientific information is made practical for the benefit 
of those who have knowledge of the science upon which either is based, and by the 
practice of which their professors make a respectable living. So scientific agricultm-e 
might be made a profession with us, the professors of which, by visiting farms, analyzing 
their soil, examining their local position, superficial character, etc., might be able to 
place within the reach of the least enlightened of our agricultm-al population all the 
benefits of experimental science, and, in so doing, at the same time, advance their own 
pecuniary interest. 

The best mode that occurs to me for the accomplishment of an object so highly 
important would be that the legislature should request the board of trustees of the 
university to establish in that institution a professorship of agriculture, and that con- 
nected ■«ith it there should be a farm for experiments. The duty of such professor 
might be to superintend the cultivation of the farm, with the view to determine the 
best mode of raising the staple and other agricultural products of the State, of protect- 
ing them from the attacks of destructive insects, testing the comparative value of the 
different varieties of seed, and the various modes of resuscitating the worn out lands; to 
deliver public lectures at stated times, and to publish an agricultural paper, in which 
might be reported lectures delivered, and the character and result of all expeiiments 
made. The benefits that would arise from the establishment of such a department in 
our university are such, it appears to me, as would authorize the State to make the 
appropriations necessary to defray the expenses. 

The subject of common schools deserves all the consideration and encouragement it 
is in the power of the general assembly to bestow. The whole theory of our form of 
Government is based upon the capacity of the people. Without a general diffusion of 
intelligence among them, the machinery of a Government thus constituted can not be 



52 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATTON IN ALABAMA. 

expected to move on successfully. The highest and most important of all the duties 
of a free Government is to advance the cause of education, and guard against that 
decline of liberty which results from neglecting the minds of the people. 

Unfortunately for our State, her financial condition will not allow her to do more 
than to make a faithful application of the fund gran ted by Congress for that important 
object. By an act of the last session, State stock for so much of this fund as had been 
received from the sixteenth sections sold was required to be issued to the townships 
respectively entitled to it. This has been done, and the interest stipulated upon it 
has been paid in the mode jDrovided. 

It is to be regretted that this fund, which consists in the sixteenth section in each 
township, has been clogged with such conditions in the grant that the noble end 
designed can not be accomplished — that is, to provide for the education of that portion 
of our population who have not other means. The sixteenth sections that are at all 
valuable are generally in those townships where the white inhabitants are less numer- 
ous, and are generally in circumstances not requiring such aid, while the poor sections 
are generally found in townships where the limited circumstances of the citizens deny 
their children the opportunities of education from their own means. 

If the whole sixteenth section fund could, without a violation of good faith, be 
brought within the power of the general assembly, I would recommend its exclusive 
application to the education of those who are without other means. ^ 

Gov. Chapman was succeeded in. office by Henry W. Collier. In his 
message to the legislature, December 20, 1849, he discussed the com- 
mon-school system somewhat in detail and outlined a plan of action: 

Our plan of common-school education, if indeed we have one, is eminently defec- 
tive, if for no other reason, because it wants a head to direct its operations, to prescribe 
the course of instruction, to rec sive at least once a year reports of the condition of 
the township schools — the number of scholars, male and female; the amount paid to 
teachers from the income of the sixteenth-section fund ; the contribution of patrons, etc. 
Such a modification of our system with other corresponding changes, would infuse 
into the cause of education generally new life, and in particular elevate primary 
schools. The standard of education in these is generally far below the wants of the 
pupils, and it is a patriotic duty resting upon us with great force to endeavor to raise 
it higher. * * * 

No one should be employed as a teacher whose moral character is not unexception- 
able, who does not combine amiability with a due degree of sternness, and shall not be 
found competent upon a satisfactory examination to teach orthography, reading, pen- 
manship, arithmetic, English grammar, modern geography, and the history of the 
United States. It would be very desirable if his knowledge extended further, so as to 
give some general instruction to the male scholars upon agriculture and the mechanic 
arts, and thus fit them for the practical duties of life. * * * 

There should also be a director of common schools for each county, and three trustees 
for each township. The latter should provide for the erection and repair of school- 
houses when necessary; should endeavor to collect a township library by voluntary 
contributions, until it shall be deemed expedient to appropriate a fund for the pur- 
chase of books; should examine, or cause to be examined, applicants to teach, stipu- 
late their compensation, make settlements with them, etc. 

It is not desirable to multiply offices too much, and I therefore suggest that the 
judges of the county courts in their respective counties should be bounty directors; 
they should receive reports from the trustees of the townships. * * * 

A superintendent should be a man of energy, benevolence, education, amiable dis- 
position, and strong common sense, wholly untrammeled by other duties. His powers 

J Message of Gov. Chapman, Montgomery, 1849, pp. 23-25. 



EXPEEIMENTAL PEEIOD IN THE STATE SYSTEM. 53 

should all be enlisted in the business; he should be required to devote a certain por- 
tion of his time in endeaA^oring to awaken an interest in popular education. 

That the fund may be productive of the most good to those who really need it, I 
recommend that it be explicitly provided that only those who are pupils of the teachers 
employed by the township trastees should receive any portion of it. In some of the 
townships the income of the fund has been distributed among all the schools within 
them according to the number of the scholars, often making the benefit too inconsider- 
able to aid the dependent.^ 

But Gov. Collier was ahead of the representatives of the people. 
Tlie committee of the legislature to whom this message was referred 
answered in glowing platitudes and expatiated on the necessity of 
common schools and then regretted that the "heavy public expendi- 
ture" could not permit any State contribution "to the enterprise." 

As a substitute for a general State system, the committee thought 
that "a few splendid educational piizes" in the shape of free courses 
at the university would be quite adequate "to educate a sufficient 
number of our young men for the useful and honorable profession of 
teachers to supply the wants of the State." There was the same 
situation in the assembly of 1851-52. A committee of the house on 
education, Charles P. Robinson, chairman, made a report in which 
the whole educational situation was reviewed. The burden of this 
report was the sixteenth-section funds. This is what was understood 
by public education, and for that reason the State had failed to 
respond — 

to the demands of the people. Instead of encouraging education by the application of 
the means which the people have ever been ready to yield [i. e., taxation], legislatures 
have S3emed to consider all education as connected in some way with the sixteenth- 
section fund. 

The committee then presented a tabular statement in which they 
show that 89 townships received $32,736.21 from their sixteenth- 
section funds; 629 others received S31,912.25, and the remaining 794 
townsliips seem to have received nothing. This unequal state of 
affairs led the committee to say: 

A grant founded in the noble policy of providing a secure and permanent source of 
education to all who would avaQ themselves of it has issued in the raising by general 
taxation, annually, the sum of 164,548.46 [sic]. This sum is applied, in great part, to 
those counties least in need of this assistance, and what is still more important, in the 
wealthier portions of such counties. Nor does the evil stop here. It is to be feared, 
from this inefficient system of the present school laws, that the money is not always 
applied to the support of free schools in the townships, open and accessible to all the 
children thereof. 

The committee thought that out of the " 130,000 children" in the 
State between 5 and 15 "only between 35,000 and 40,000" were at 
school during the year. They did not offer a bill for a system of 
public schools, but brought in one to authorize the governor to 
appoint a State superintendent at $3,000 per year. It was to be 

J Message of Gov. Collier, Dec. 20, 1849, Montgomery, 1849, pp. 33, 34, 35. 



64 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

his duty to visit the counties^ make pubhc addresses, and arouse 
interest in education. He was to make a census of school children 
between 5 and 16 and ascertain the number of schools and academies. 
He was to be a missionary, a voice crying in the wilderness, a guide, 
philosopher, and friend, and prior to October 1, 1853, was to report 
to the governor the draft of a bill for a public school system. 

The logic of the committee was irrefutable; the superintendent 
was badly needed, but the bill did not become a law, for the time 
had not come when the citizens of Alabama could look squarely in 
the face the problem of taxation for public schools. 

It will be noted that through all the discussion there was the 
idea that the public funds should be devoted exclusively to the edu- 
cation of the poor. The dominant note does not seem to be that of 
contemptuous concession to those who could not help themselves — 
the pauper school idea — nor yet the modern idea that the State edu- 
cates for its own protection and in order to give to each the oppor- 
tunity for fullest development, but a position between the two. 
There was a certain consciousness present with the slaveholding 
element that for the laboring classes the education received in the 
pubhc schools was the best, and should for that reason be devoted to 
them in its entirety, not as a dole, nor yet as a right, but as a charity 
from the more fortunate to those who were less so. 

When we consider the amount of income available from these 
funds; when we remember the deep-rooted hostility to taxation that 
characterized these people, and their extreme jealousy of anything 
that looked hke centrahzation of power; when we recall that practi- 
cally all men in Alabama who thought were able to educate their 
own children out of their private means, we can better understand 
the feeling which would devote the pubhc funds to ''the education 
of those who are without other means." The slaveholder was will- 
ing to surrender his proportion of these pubhc funds, not in the 
sense that he patronized and looked down with contempt on his 
poorer neighbor, but because, by refusing to share in this fund, 
by bearing his own educational burdens, he could help the general 
cause, help the State bear this burden, which the individual most 
benefited by it was unable to do, and at the same time limit the 
activity of the State. 

All parties were now beginning to look toward the same goal. 
In his message to the assembly in November, 1851, Gov. Collier had 
again emphasized his position on education : 

Primary school instruction can not be dignified as a system until it has a head to 
direct and supervise its operations. A superintendent * * * should be appointed 
by legislative authority. He should traverse the State, address the people, visit and 
examine schools, and inquire into the qualifications of teachers, as often as a proper 
attention to his other duties would permit. 



EXPERIMENTAL PERIOD IN" THE STATE SYSTEM. 55 

Gov. Collier again failed to get what he had recommended, but 
vsdth 1851-52 the period of legislative empiricism ends. With 
1853-54 came new leaders, a new law, and a new awakening. Hith- 
erto the first had been absent, the laws had been ineffective, and the 
time for the awakening had not yet arrived. 

In the meantime what was the actual status of pubHc education 
in the State and what were the legal requirements in the case? 

Under the code of 1852 the duties of the school trustees required 
them to take the census of children 8 to 21 years of age; to divide 
the townships into school districts; 

to establish in each school district, for at least three months in each year, a school 
for instruction in the common English branches — reading, writing, arithmetic, spell- 
ing, gra mm ar, and geography; and to locate schools, provide schoolhouses, employ 
teachers, etc. 

The total white population of the State in 1850 was 426,514, and 
we may assume that this represented a school population of over 
100,000. The census of 1850 shows: 

(1) Five colleges, with 55 teachers and 567 students. These insti- 
tutions report $5,900 income from endowment, $395 from public 
funds, and $35,050 from other sources, making $41,255 in all. 

(2) The academies and other schools were 166 in number, with 
380 teachers and 8,290 pupils. They reported an income of $164,165, 
of which $4,949 came from public funds. 

(3) There were reported 1,152 pubUc schools, with 1,195 teachers, 
showing that they were nearly all one-teacher schools, with 28,380 
pupils. They had a total income of $315,602, of which $800 came 
fi'om taxation, $56,367 from pubUc funds, and $2,916 from endow- 
ment. 

From these figures, apparently compiled from the reports made 
by the schools themselves, it is seen that there were then 37,237 
pupils of all grades in the schools of the State, but when the statistics 
were gathered by families, it was found that 62,778 pupils had been 
"attending school during the year." It will probably be safe to 
assume that the census by schools represented a daily average attend- 
ance and the one by famihes the total enrollment. It will be noted 
also that the census does not report the length of school term, nor 
consider the efficiency of teachers. It is probably not far from the 
truth to assume that while the census figures may be essentially 
correct there were no real public schools; that the schools which 
passed under that name were private institutions supplemented by 
public funds, and that their work when weighed in the balance of 
specific accomplishment, was not of great importance. 

TMs judgment is based on testimony no less authoritative than that 
of the State superintendent himself. 






56 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Gen. William F. Perry became the first superintendent of public 
instruction, in 1854. In 1897-98 he published his reminiscences of 
the condition of the public schools at the time he took charge.^ 

He says, in part: 

Notliing entitled to the name of a system of education had ever existed. There was 
a fund amounting at that time to about $1,000,000, belonging * * * not to the 
State, but to the individual townships. This fund, so far from being an aid, was really 
an obstacle in the way of the establishment of a general system of schools. Its use- 
lessness for such a purpose was due to the great inequality of its distribution. There 
were many hundreds of townships whose school lands were totally valueless; and 
probably more than half the remainder possessed funds so small as to be practically 
valueless. There were whole counties whose township funds consolidated would 
hardly have supported a single decent school. It should be remembered, too, that 
these sections of the State contained a white population at once the densest and the 
most needy. 

The townsMps having the largest school endowment were found chiefly in the 
Tennessee Valley and in the central portion of the State, known as the Black Belt. 
WTiile it is true that the funds of most of them were legitimately and wisely used, it is 
also true that they belonged to those who were in least need of aid, and it is equally 
true that many of the most richly endowed townships were covered with cotton planta- 
tions and negro quarters and had no schools at all. ^ 

But what had the great mass of the people done for themselves? Left without 
guidance, encouragement, or any material help from without, what means had they 
employed, and what facilities had they created for the education of their children? 
* * * 

The answers * * * are as various as are the conditions which prevailed in 
different localities. In the towns and villages were generally found school buildings . 
more or less commodious, but rudely and uncomfortably furnished, and defaced by 
abuse and neglect. The teachers looked to the patronage alone for support * * * 

It is painful to recall * * * the wretched provision made for the education 
of the young in those large areas of the State where the land is unproductive and the 
people were poor. Hundreds of townships were entirely without a school; and there 
were whole blocks of counties that could boast of scarcely a single pleasantly located, 
comfortable schoolhouse. Many that I saw in my travels through the State beggared 
description. But for the rude benches visible through the cracks, and the broken 
slates and tattered spelling books scattered around them, any one would have been 
at a loss to determine for what piu-pose connected with civilized life they were 
designed. 

It may reasonably be supposed that the character of the instruction received by the 
children in such places was on a par with their material surroundings. T^Tiere there 
were no townsliip funds, there were no trustees. Any one could get the use of the 
wretched, makesliift of a house who could secure from parents a sufficient number of 
pupils, pledged under written articles of agreement * * * It goes without saying 
that only teachers of a very low grade of qualifications could be obtained. A majority 
of them, at that time, were men, and in most cases, men who had resorted to teaching 
because they had proved unfit for anything else. 

But Gen . Perry was able to mention at least one pleasing exception 
to the above picture of general gloom. It is that of a Lancastrian 
school in perfect working order. 

I Transactions Alabama Historical Society, vol. 2. 



EXPERIMENTAL PERIOD IN THE STATE SYSTEM. 57 

He says : 

In rare cases enterprising teachers succeeded in arousing a strong local interest and 
in building up what might be termed country academies, in which the classics and 
sciences were taught, and aspiring young men received their preparation for college. 

To illustrate the power of personal magnetism and the extent to which even the 
hmnblest people can be stirred by the desire for improvement, I can not forbear 
mentioning a school that I visited, when a youth, among the hills of DeKalb County. 
A stranger came to the neighborhood and began teaching in a rude schoolhouse. 
Interest was awakened, and the house was soon filled. Interest grew into enthusiasm, 
and to accommodate the increasing members, rough sheds, covered with boards, were 
constructed around the house, and to them were added bush arbors, until the place 
resembled an old-fashioned religious camp-ground. There were in attendance, I 
suppose, not less than 150 pupils of all ages, from 6 to 30. The principal occupied the 
hoiise; each shed was presided over by an assistant; while the arbors were filled with 
classes in spelling, reading, geography, and simple numbers, which were presided 
over by their own members, each in his turn assuming the duty of leadership, and 
going over the entire lesson before surrendering the place to a successor. The utmost 
ceremony was observed in every change, and each leader, on taking his place, was 
saluted with profound obeisance by the class. The whole machinery seemed to move 
with the utmost precision, and no evidence was anywhere visible of idleness, mis- 
behavior, or disorder. 



Chapter VI. 

THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE PUBLIC SCHOOL 

SYSTEM, 1854-1856. 



With the beginning of the sixth decade of the century the pubHc 
conscience of Alabama — and by this is meant the conscience of a few 
high-minded leaders among the slave-holding class — was being quick- 
ened into a broader conception of duty to the humbler citizenship in 
a common democracy. These leaders could well afford to educate 
their own children at private institutions; the poorer citizens could 
not, and all help for them must come through the State. Therefore, 
with an unselfishness for which these aristocratic slaveholders have 
received scant credit, they set to work to organize a system which 
would educate the children of all freemen. Their misfortune was 
that, having no experience to guide, they sought information only 
through empiricism, and they made mistakes which dearly cost them 
and the people whom they sought to serve. They were hampered by 
lack of means and scarcity of population, and it is not just to hold 
up these men, or their system of slavery, as the cause of the failure 
of schools. In North Carohna the common-school idea had been 
worked out with a high degree of success before the Civil War. Other 
States were facing the same problem, each in its own way, and had 
not the war intervened there is every reason to beheve they would 
have attained, before many years more, a satisfactory solution. 

In 1853 the State had a public school fund of more than a milhon 
dollars; it had reorganized its sixteenth section fund, had gotten it 
free from its entangling alliance with the old State bank, and had 
tried out various plans of its own and found them failures. The 
ground was fallow, and there was the contagious example of success- 
ful schools in Mobile. To the State senate of 1853-54 there came 
from Lauderdale Robert M. Patton, later governor; and to the house 
Alexander Beaufort Meek, from Mobile, and Jabez Lamar Monroe 
Curry, from Talladega. These were the men who made possible the 
school law of 1853-54. The drafting of the school bill was referred 
to Judge Meek, chairman of the house committee on education. 
With his draft went a report in which is reviewed the general educa- 
tional situation m Alabama. 

After discussmg the value of education in the abstract and paying 
the usual meed of praise to progressive New England, Judge Meek 
58 



ORGAFIZATION" OF THE STATE SYSTEM, 1854-1856. 59 

boldly puts forward the establishment of a system of common schools 
in Alabama not on the ground of favor or charity, but because it 
represented "not only the highest interest, but the clear right and 
imperative duty" of the State; there was even in his mind a glimmer 
of the modern doctrine of self protection: "The property of a State 
is dependent for protection and safety upon such a system, and should 
therefore pay for its establishment and maintenance." The doctrine 
of "protection and safety" is certainly nearer to modern ideas than 
it is to the older doctrine of charity and paupers. 

The difficulty before the committee was how to equalize the very 
unequal distribution of the sixteenth section fund. Says Judge Meek 
for the committee : 

The inequalities in the distribution of the sixteenth section bounty may be forcibly 
illustrated by a few facts. The total number of townships in this State is 1,572. Of 
these, 873 have sold their sixteenth sections, leaving 699 which have not made a sale, 
from their sections being below the minimum value. Those that were sold embraced 
558,720 acres, and brought $1,575,598. The residue of the sections, if sold, it is esti- 
mated, would swell this amount to about $2,000,000 — the munificent donation of the 
General Government for schools in this State. 

From reports heretofore made it appears that the value of the sixteenth sections 
in the 13 counties of Autauga, Chambers, Dallas, Greene, Limestone, Lowndes, Madi- 
son, Montgomery, Perry, Pickens, Sumter, and Tuscaloosa is at least one-third more 
than half the value of all the other sixteenth sections in the State, while the white 
population of those counties is but little more than one-fourth of that of the whole 
State. Dallas County, with a white population of about 7,000, has an annual fund 
of near $5,000, while Mobile, with near 18,000 white inhabitants, has no fund. Coosa, 
with a white population of near 11,000, does not get annually $600, and Pike, with 
near 13,000, gets less than $450. The whole county of Covington receives but $6.90, 
while one township in Perry gets $1,200 annually, and another but 67 cents. 

These funds, which Judge Meek happily characterized as "mis- 
applied bounties," belonged, as we have seen, to the individual town- 
ships and could not, under the law, be pooled in a common State 
fund. 

He says . 

The limitations of this beneficent grant have defeated the very object for which it 
was intended — the advancement of education — and have been the chief cause of the 
' obstacles which have existed to the establishment of a public school system in this 
State, for there have been sufficient indications in the past that the people would not 
favor any system of public schools which did not embrace the sixteenth section fund 
■within purview of its arrangements, and give to the munificent appropriations some 
equitable and efficient application. 

Your committee * * * have accordingly prepared, with great care and labor, 
a system of free public schools, in which this is made the fundamental and pervading 
provision. They have proceeded on the principle that every child in our State, of 
suitable age, is entitled to a sufficient sum to give him the elementary branches of 
knowledge, free of cost, and that when any child does not receive such sum from the 
sixteenth section fund, it should be afforded to him by the State, * * * the ob- 
ject being to establish in every township, where the number of children demands it, 
at least one free public school, for primary instruction. * * * To meet this want 



60 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

will require reasonably liberal appropriations. * * * Surely $2 a scholar is the 
lowest minimum which could be regarded as adequate for that purpose. * * * 
There can be no doubt that the people of this State would more gladly accede to such 
a disposition of the funds in the treasury than to any other. They exhibit in the 
clamorous demands which have been sent up every year for the establishment of 
common schools and in the utterance of all the organs of thought and sentiment in 
our State. It is not from any one class that this appeal comes — from no favored few — 
but from the great body of the people * * * whose voice should be heard and 
obeyed. * * * There can be no doubt that it is the unquestionable right, the 
highest interest, and the most imperative duty of the State to educate her children. 

The bill introduced by Judge Meek, which became a law on Feb- 
ruary 15, 1854, created in the first place an "Educational fund," 
consisting of — 

(1) The annual interest at 8 per cent of that part of the surplus 
revenue deposited by the United States with Alabama under the 
congressional act of June 23, 1836. 

(2) The annual interest at 8 per cent on the proceeds of sales of 
certain lands granted by the United States for the use of schools in 
the valueless sixteenth sections, under act of August 11, 1848.^ 

(3) The annual interest at 6 per cent on the funds which have or 
may accrue from sales of sixteenth section lands. 

(4) $100,000 from the State treasury. 

(5) All money arising from escheats. 

(6) An annual tax of $100 for each $100,000 of capital stock of 
every bank, insurance or exchange company, or in that proportion. 

(7) An annual tax of $100 levied on every railroad after it had 
declared dividends. 

(8) An annual tax of $100 on every agency of any foreign bank, 
insurance or exchange company. 

In his first report the State supermtendent wrote of these various 
sources of revenue as follows (pp. 3-4) : 

The two funds placed under his control, under the general title of "Educational 
Fund, "were created at different times, were subject to different laws, and sustained 
different relations. One was the property of the State, consolidated and unchanging 
in amount; ^ the other belonged to the townships in their individual capacity, dis- 
tributed among them in all possible amounts, ranging from a few cents per annum 
to many hundi'eds of dollars, and was constantly accumulating. A small portion of 
the latter was still under the mangement of the banks, another and much the larger 
was in the treasury; a third, in the form of sixteenth-section notes, was found in the 
office of the comptroller of public accounts, and scattered over the State in the hands 
of trustees, withheld under special laws, or in defiance of law. 

To unite these funds thus situated, and bring them under one general system of 
accounts which would do full justice to all, and more than justice to none, cost an 
amount of thought and labor which he had not been prepared to expect, and which 
few, perhaps, now can realize. 

1 This referred to the transfer of certain lands granted for internal improvements by act of Sept. 4, 1841, 
to "the use of schools in such townships of said States as in which the sixteenth or school sections are 
comparatively valueless." — S. at L., ix, 281. 

2 The Surplus Revenue Fund of 1836. 



ORGAlSriZATION' OF THE STATE SYSTEM, 1854-1856. 61 

The admmistrative officers provided were: 

(1) A State superintendent of education. 

(2) Three commissioners of free public schools in each county. 

(3) Three trustees in each township. 

The superintendent was to be elected by the assembly for two 
years and was paid $2,000 per aimum, and his duties — those usually 
pertaining to this position — were defined. The commissioners in- 
cluded the county judge of probate and were elected by the people. 
They had a general supervision of schools in the county and were to 
control all school moneys. They might provide houses, apparatus, 
books, libraries, or other conveniences, and served without pay. 
The tinistees were elected by the people, could establish schools, 
and employ teachers who were m every case to be first ''examined 
and licensed." 

The State superintendent was made the authority in control and 
management of Federal funds, and all funds were to pass through 
the State treasury. School age was fixed at 5 to 18, and the super- 
intendent was instructed to seek to equalize, by means of the Educa- 
tional Fund, ''the irregularities of distribution produced by the 
sixteenth-section fund," which was also made a part of the Educa- 
tional Fund. 

The commissioners had authority to consolidate weak townships 
and the trustees were requii-ed to have the pupils divided — graded 
as we say — 

into at least four classes, the first of which shall be known and designated as the pri- 
mary class. This class shall embrace instructions in reading, wi'iting, and simple 
arithmetic, and such instruction shall always be given to all pupils requiring it, free 
of any cost or charge * * * . The other classes * * * shall be made succes- 
sively free of any cost for instruction, according to such gradations, whenever the fund 
coming to the township or united townships for school purposes, from any source, 
will justify it. 

In cases where public funds were not sufficient to make all classes 
free, "moderate tuition fees" were to be charged in order to give 
the teacher "a fair compensation for his services." 

Each county was "authorized" to raise annually by special tax 
upon real and personal property an amount not exceeding 10 cents 
on the $100 valuation, "for the support of common schools therein 
and for providing suitable houses and purchasing libraries and 
apparatus for such schools. " These moneys were to be paid into 
the county treasury, were apportioned therefrom, and at least 50 
per cent of this local fund had to go for the payment of teachers. 
All money from "the State school fund" had to be used for teachers 
only and all teachers were to be "duly examined, approved, and 
employed by competent and lawful authority." 



62 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

This school act — a remarkable one, when we consider the time 
and the State in which it was enacted — provided as follows : 

(1) An educational fund was established by recognizing existing 
sources of income and creating new ones. It authorized, but did 
not command, a local tax and the public schools thus established 
were to be supported from the income of the State school funds and 
from local taxation. There was no direct State taxation for schools, 
although the State contribution of $100,000 of necessity came from 
taxes. In this way, local self help was encouraged by the recognition 
and financial aid of the State, which also sought to equalize from its 
own funds the inequalities between rich and poor communities. 

(2) The primary work was made absolutely free from tuition 
charges. 

(3) The grading of classes and the examination and certification 
of teachers were provided for. 

The weakness of the law was the lack of efficient supervision. The 
superintendent did not have sufficient power to compel reports. The 
county commissioners were in part public officials already, and 
neither they nor the township trustees were required to show any 
particular fitness for their work, nor were they paid for their services. 
It was a public school system without proper local supervision, and 
without the necessary centralization. Yet it did not escape criti- 
cism, protests against it being recorded in both houses. That of the 
senate, signed by six members, was long and bitter. It characterizes 
the law as "unjust and totally inadequate." The objectors charged 
that the law set aside $83,333 "to be applied beyond the limits of the 
townships to which it belongs," This fund was characterized as a 
"sacred trust" while the house objectors styled it a "vested right." 
The "extraordinary power" given to the superintendent was assailed, 
the "generous confidence" gi'anted was "liable to abuse" and gave 
"too large a range of discretion." The entire sum — 

is left in the discretion of one man, with the only qualification that his rule of distri- 
bution shall equalize sixteenth sections, of which it leaves him the sole and exclusive 
judge * * * The bill, repudiating as it partially does, the sixteenth section 
funds as due and belonging to the inhabitants of the townships, does not give these 
townships the poor privilege of having the law to prescribe the rule of decision, but 
by the will of one man and in the way the temptations of self interest and the allure- 
ments of ambition may prompt him. 

Both protests were probably justified in objecting to appropria- 
tions on any other basis than that of actual attendance. The 
senate protestants also objected — 

because $2,000 are appropriated to pay the superintendent and $3,000 more to the 
circulation of essays, periodicals, and to enlighten the people and not to educate the 
children as the bill proposes — thereby wasting enough money to educate annually 
1,000 of the indigent children of the State. 



I 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE SYSTEM, 1854-1856. 63 

Of the unheard-of and radical proposals of the bill the house 
objectors said: "Such provisions are not adapted to our latitude, 
and need only to be named to be seen to be objectionable." Nor 
did the senate objectors fail to make their appeal to religious bigotry. 

The powers conferred on the superintendent are extraordinary. He can govern 
every free school in the State absolutely, prescribe the course of study, the books, 
say which are sectarian or what not, and exclude or admit them at will. The cunning 
freethinker or sectarian would want no better opportunity than this to impress his 
own opinions upon the entire State through the rising generation. 

This Alabama State law of 1854, product of the brain of Alexander 
Beaufort Meek, lawyer and judge, editor and legislator, poet and 
soldier, shows a grasp of educational problems, a comprehension of 
school difficulties and school needs and a modernity of methods and 
aims that are truly astonishing. 

The assembly chose as its first State superintendent, William F. 
Perry, an experienced and enlightened teacher who had long been 
connected with private schools in the State and who later became a 
brigadier general in the Confederate army. He was urged for this 
place by Gen. J. Tipton Bradfoid, Hon. J. L. M. Curry, and Chief 
Justice W. P. Chilton, the opposing caadidate being Rev. Dr. Andrew 
A. Lipscomb, a teacher and scholar then living in Montgomery and 
later chancellor of the University of Georgia. 

General Perry has told his experiences in orgaaizing the schools in 
his Reminiscences, already quoted. He says- 
After setting my office in order, I opened correspondence with the judges of probate, 
asking them to order elections of tinistees in the townships and to instruct them, when 
elected, to ascertain and report the number of youths of school age in their respective 
townships. * * * I ^as ignorant enough to expect that the work could be accom- 
plished in the course of two or three months at furthest. 

Quite a number of the judges of probate paid no attention to my requests. Many 
found it difficult to reach the townships. Circulars could not be addressed to town- 
ships which had no organization and no legal representatives. Notices in the county 
papers often failed, while in many counties no paper was published. And then, 
there was the inertia of ignorance, the difficulty of getting masses of uninformed people 
out of the ruts in which they had been moving for generations. 

To the people of more than one-third of the State, the township as a corporation, or 
as a body politic of any kind, was unknown. The very boundaries had faded from 
their minds and memories with the disappearance of the marks made on the forest 
trees by the surveyors who had located them. To reach these large masses of people, 
induce concerted action, was a task the difficulty of which no one had anticipated 
and which was accomplished at last by dint of hammering. * * * No difficulty 
occurred in the counties whose townships had maintained their school organization. 

It was larte in the fall before the complete returns were received and the apportion- 
ment was begun. In the absence of any specific direction of law, the distribution was 
made by giving to the townships that had nothing and adding to those that had little 
until the appropriation was exhausted, leaving those whose school revenue exceeded 
the average thus produced simply to retain what they had. 

I felt that it would have a dwarfing effect upon the system and upon the minds of 
the people to fall into the habit of employing teachers for only such time as the pubUc 



64 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

money would last, and was anxious at the beginning to give such direction to the 
State appropriation that it would stimulate rather than suppress the spirit of self 
help in the people. The trustees were therefore advised to authorize teachers whom 
they approved to raise their own schools by subscription, the patrons being responsible 
to the teacher for the tuition, at specified rates, of the pupils subscribed, and the 
trustees engaging to use the money under their control, as far as it would go, in dis- 
charging the liability of the patron. 

This * * * had several advantages: First, it would avoid all danger of com- 
plaint that the trustees had imposed upon the people a teacher who was not acceptable; 
second, it put all of the patrons upon a method of procedure with which they were 
akeady familiar; third, it showed them that the State had not proposed to relieve 
them of all expense and responsibility in the education of their children, but to guide 
and assist them in the performance of a duty which they could never abdicate. 

The first of January, 1855, was fixed as the beginning of the school year; and the 
rude machinery began to move. * * * 

The year 1855 was spent in visiting the counties of the State and in conducting an 
extremely heavy con-espondence. Questions of all shapes and sizes, growing out of 
every tliinkable complication of conditions, came in a continuous stream. At first, 
some of them were very embarrassing. After a time, however, I became so saturated 
with the system, in its entirety and in its details, that my mind reached conclusions 
with ease and confidence. * * * 

In my tour through the State, I found the schools generally in operation and the 
people pleased and hopeful, especially in those counties which were most benefited 
by the system; and returned to my office feeling fully assured that the public educa- 
tional system of Alabama, though still crude and imperfect, had come to stay. 

The test of actual use showed the weakness of the law of 1854. 
Gen. Perry continues: 

The county administration was imposed upon the judges of probate, who were 
required to perform their duties without compensation. The township officers 
consisted of a board of three trustees. They were charged with duties which called for 
more than ordinary administrative power. They were to raise means for the erection 
of schoolhouses when such were needed; to divide the townships into such districts 
as the situation demanded; to select and employ teachers and supervise the schools; 
to make settlements and submit annual reports. * * * 

The weakest feature of the system was the county administration. The judges of 
probate, not without good reason, regarded the imposition of new and onerous duties 
upon them without compensation, as a great hardship; and while many of them were 
faithful and efficient, they could not give the amount of attention that was absolutely 
essential to the prompt and efficient inauguration of a united system. 

The adoption of the township as a school corporation, although under the circum- 
stances a necessity, involved great inconveniences. It complicated the duties of the 
trustees, who were generally plain, unlettered men, and led to neighborhood jealousies 
and dissensions in reference to the location of schools. 

The first annual report of Gen. Peny, that for 1854-5, tells more 
accurately perhaps, but certainly less vividly, substantially the same 
story and is quoted here because it represents contemporaneous 
documentary evidence. 

This report shows that the people had nob yet learned the impor- 
tance of making returns. Only 8 counties — Chambers, Benton, 
Kandolph, Shelby, Pickens, Barbour, Limestone, and Lauderdale — 
made fairly complete reports. These reported 312 schools and 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE SYSTEM, 1854-1856. 65 

9,658 pupils. It was said that ''several hundred" schools had been 
established since June 30, 1855, and it was "positively known that a 
large number iti existence before that time were not reported." 
The total number of pupils 5-1 8 years of age was given as 145,588, and 
the sum available for distribution to each was $1.33|. 
Says the superintendent: 

Each township having no sixteenth section fund accordingly received an amount 
produced by multiplying that ratio into the number of children reported by it. Those 
having from their sixteenth section fund less than that average received such sum, as, 
added to the interest of their fund, would be equal to such average, and those already 
having more, simply retained what they had. The number of townships belonging 
to the latter class is not precisely known, since some that have sixteenth section funds 
failed to report. 

There was constant trouble over the payment of salaries and in 
forwarding the necessary funds for this purpose from the super- 
intendent's office. Three months after funds were due and i>ayable 
15 counties had not drawn them because the commissioners were 
unwilling to incur "the responsibility and personal i^sk of ordering 
remittances by mail, and they ha've no other means of obtaining it." 

There was also a contention among various schools, each of which 
demanded its pro rata of the public funds "instead of employing a 
single teacher at a fixed salary." In these cases the school trustees — 

established such a number of schools as the people needed, binding themselves to 
make an equitable distribution of the money under their control among them, accord- 
ing to the attendance upon each and the length of time each was taught, leaving the 
patrons responsible to the teachers for the remainder of the tuition, at rates previously 
agreed upon. 

As a result of his visits to the schools the superintendent was 
constrained to say: 

The melancholy reflection still, however, obtrudes itself that three-fourths of the 
youth of the State have hitherto either gone without instruction entirely, or have 
been crowded into miserable apologies for schoolhouses, without comfortable seats, 
without desks or blackboards, often without the necessary textbooks, and still oftener 
without competent teachers. 

but he believed that the law was not in advance of public sentiment — 

that the people of the State, by an overwhelming majority, are favorable to the prin- 
ciple of public education, and are prepared to sustain the legislature in all judicious 
measures for giving additional efficiency to the system. 

He urged various changes in the law and declared that the — 

ultimate establishment of State normal schools for the professional training of teachers 
can not but be regarded by the enlightened friends of popular education as a consumr 
mation most devoutly to be wished. 

The scope of the course of study laid down for the pablic schools at 
this time by the superintendent included : 

Orthography, reading, penmansliip, mental and written arithmetic, geography, 
history of the United States and outlines of universal history, English grammar and 
75075° — 15 5 



66 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

exercises in English composition, natural pliilosopliy and astronomy, bookkeeping, 
physiology and hygiene, and the Constitution of the United States. 

It will not be understood as the object, in recommending a course of study, to lay 
down a number of branches to be pursued in an inflexible order, and in a specified 
time. That systematic arrangement aimed at in most colleges, by which a regular 
gradation of classes and a fixed order of studies pursued in a given length of time are 
maintained, can not be expected and it is believed need not be desired in the common 
school. 

Such branches have been selected as are considered essential parts of a good com- 
mon-school education — such as every American youth should pursue in order to be 
fitted for the active duties and the high responsibilities of life. 

In some townsliips the amount of the public fund may justify the employment of 
teachers competent to give instruction in a more thorough and extensive course than 
that recommended; while in others the schools will be made up almost entirely of 
pupils in the primary class. 

Elaborate treatises on natural science can not ordinarily be used; and hence, such 
have not been prescribed. The works on this subject in the catalogue of textbooks are 
simjDle and popular in their style, and have been selected with reference to their 
adaptedness to the great majority of those into whose hands they will be placed. * * * 

No apology is deemed necessary for recommending physiology and hygiene as a 
branch of common school education. It is rather a matter of astonishment that it has 
hitherto received so little attention. ^ 

The pupils are classified according to studies, as follows: 

Class I. — Orthography, reading, writing, mental arithmetic, written arithmetic, 
through the fundamental rules. 

Class II. — The above continued, defining, first lessons in geography, and history. 

Exercises in definition, in some form, should be kept up throughout the whole 
course. The pupil should never be without his dictionary at his side, and the faith- 
fulness with which it has been consulted should be tested by the teacher at each 
recitation. 

This remark is particularly applicable to the study of history which, properly pur- 
sued, not only strengthens the memory and stores it with facts and principles, but 
also makes daily additions of new terms to his stock of words and imparts facility 
and precision in their use. 

Class III. — Any of the above, with English grammar, composition, history, and 
simple exercises in bookkeeping. 

Class IV. — Such of the above as may not have been completed, the natural sciences, 
bookkeeping, physiology, and the constitution. 

Spelling, reading, and declamation throughout the course. 

A fifth class has been introduced into the form of trustees' reports. It was designed 
to include any of the higher English branches that may be pursued in the public 
schools by pupils under 18 years of age. 

In the above classification an endeavor has been made to conform as near as possible 
to that natural order in which the human faculties are developed in childhood. ^ 

The textbooks used included: 

Denman's Primer; Webster's Spelling Book and Sequel; Webster's Dictionary; 
Gallaudet's Illustrative Definer; McGuffey's series of Readers, revised and stereo- 
tyi:>ed edition (particular attention is invited to the exercises in articulation) ; Tower's 
Gradual Lessons in Oral and Written Arithmetic (this work may precede Colbum's 
Mental Arithmetic and Davies's Arithmetic); Monteith's Youth's Manual of Geog- 

iForms for the use of officers of free public schools, etc., Montgomery, 1854, pp. 14-15. " Ibid., pp. 16-17. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE SYSTEM, 1854-1856. 67 

raphy; Smith's Quarto Geography; Tower's Elements of Grammar; Tower's English 
Grammar; Kurd's Grammatical Corrector; Thomas' First Book of Etymology; Guern- 
sey's Primary History, or Parley's First Book of History; Willard's Abridged History 
of the United States; Parley's Universal History, or Willard's, which is far preferable 
when the pupil is more advanced and has the time to devote to it; Quackenbos' First 
Lessons in English Composition; Frost's Easy Exercises in Composition is also an 
excellent work for beginners; Comstock's Primary Lessons in Natural Philosophy; 
Comstock's Philosophy, the revised editions of 1853-54, greatly improved (a small 
book of questions and illustrations accompanies it); Smith's Illustrated Astronomy 
(Olmsted's School Astronomy is preferable for more advanced pupils); Mayhew'a 
Practical System of Bookkeeping, with Key; Cutter's First Book of Anatomy, Physi- 
ology and Hygiene; Hart's Exposition of the Constitution of the United States; Com- 
stock's System of Elocution; Vodge's Mensuration, after arithmetic has been thor- 
oughly mastered, will be found an excellent work for those who have not time or 
opportunity to study the theoretical demonstration of mathematical principles. 

The work on English grammar in the catalogue has been selected after some hesi- 
tation. The novelty of the manner in which the subject is presented may render it 
objectionable to many. It will be found, however, to contain no radical innovation, 
its chief peculiarity consisting in its arrangement and in the prominence given to 
analysis and construction. It is recommended to the examination of teachers. Those 
who, after such examination, may still prefer to conform to established usage will 
find Wells' Elementary and School Grammars excellent works. ^ 

The books reconunended for teachers were : 

The School and the School-Master, by Dr. Potter and G. B. Emerson; Theory and 
Practice of Teaching, by D. P. Page; The Teacher, by J. Abbott; Slate and Black- 
board Exercises, by W. A. Alcott; Popular Education, by Ira Mayhew; American 
Education, by Mansfield. Barnard's School Architecture is an excellent work for 
those who may be engaged in the erection or furnishing of schoolhouses.^ 

In his message to the legislature in November, 1855, Gov. Wiuston 
refers to the school law of 1854 and says: 

The results of the school bill of the last session have not been so favorable as waa 
hoped for by its friends. In some parts of the State it has worked well; in others it 
has not been well received and has not been productive of good. It was not to have 
been expected, however, that a system perfectly harmonious could have been adopted 
at once. 

t As a result of various criticisms, the law of February 15, 1854, was 
revised, and on February 14, 1856, another act, one "to render more 
efficient the system of free public schools in the State of Alabama" 
was passed. The new law was based on the experience gained during 
these two years. It increased the interest on the sixteenth section 
funds from 6 per cent to 8 per cent, changed the lump sum given by 
the State so that the total amount of money available for each child 
should be $1.50, and broadened slightly the sources from which the 
school income was derived. The State superintendent was required 
to make an annual report to the governor, and in place of the county 
commissioners there was to be elected a county superintendent of 
education, whose compensation was to be fixed by the county court. 

» Forms for the use of officers of free qublic schools, etc., Montgomery, 1854, pp. 19-20. « ibid., p. 21. 



68 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA, 

He was to have general superintendence of the county free schools 
and visit them at least once a year; he was "to note the course and 
method of instruction and branches taught" and give ''instruction 
in the art of teaching and the management of schools;" to see that 
no "sectarian religious views be taught;" make "proper distribu- 
tion" of all school funds, "paying over promptly, whenever called 
upon;" make an annual report to the State superintendent on the 
number of children, the condition of the sixteenth section lands, if 
not sold, and on the schools of all sorts in his county; suggest im- 
provements; examine "all persons who propose to teach;" "organize 
and hold annually" county conventions of teachers and provide 
beforehand for the delivery of lectures ' ' upon topics connected with 
schools and education;" he was to seek out "indigent and merito- 
rious" young men entitled to be beneficiaries of the University of 
Alabama and encourage them "to become students thereof;" handle 
all county money for education and report on the same. 

The duties of the local trustees, the control of the school funds by 
the State superintendent, the power of local taxation, and the distri- 
bution of funds thus raised remained substantially the same as in 
the law of 1854. The payment of school moneys was simplified, for 
under the new law the State superintendent was to notify the local 
authorities of the amount due the particular county and the tax col- 
lector for the county was to pay the sum over to the county super- 
intendent. The school age was made 6 to 21, instead of 5 to 18, the 
length of the school term was fixed at six months in the law of 1854, 
and in both laws the independence of Mobile County of the State 
system, except to the extent of drawing its pro rata and reporting, 
was reaffirmed. 



Chapter VII. 
THE WORK OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 



Gen. Perry, first chosen State superintendent by the assembly in 
1854, was reelected February 14, 1856, and resigned September 1, 
1858, after serving more than four and one-half years. He was suc- 
ceeded by Hon. Gabriel B. Duval, who resigned in 1864. 

From Supt. 'Perry's reports we learn that the "Educational fund," 
created by the law of 1854, produced for the calendar year 1855 an 
income of $237,515.39, derived as follows: 

Interest on sixteenth-section fund $74, 687. 60 

Interest on valueless sixteenth-section fund 7, 767. 30 

Interest on Surplus Revenue fund 53, 526. 94 

State appropriation 100, 000. 00 

Special taxes on corporations, etc 1, 300. 00 

Escheats 233. 55 



Total 237, 515. 39 

The number of children of school age, 5 to 18, was reported as 
145,588. In 1856, the school population, owing perhaps to a more 
careful enumeration, as well as to an extension from 6 to 21, was 
reported as 171,093, with an enrollment of 89,160 pupils, including 
Mobile. This number represented about 52.1 per cent of the total 
school population. There were 2,281 schools and the average attend- 
ance was 38,265, or 22.4 per cent. The school term averaged six 
months, being extended to nine months in Mobile, to eight and three- 
fourths months in Russell, to eight in Chambers, Lowndes, Macon, 
and Montgomery.^ 

The impression that the schools were already doing good work is 
clearly shown by a comparison printed in the Alabama Educational 
Journal of the school enrollment in 23 given counties in 1850 and 
1856. According to the census, these counties in 1850 had in school 
27,023 pupils; in 1856 this number had risen to 51,635. 

The funds distributed by the State in 1856 were derived as follows: 

Interest on sixteenth sections and accumulated interest $90, 023. 49 

Interest on valueless sixteenth sections 7, 767. 30 

Interest on Surplus Revenue, 1836 : 53, 526. 94 

State appropriation 100, 000. 00 

Licenses, special taxes, etc 16, 371. 68 

Total 267, 689. 41 

1 Alabama Educational Journal, Oct., 1857. 

69 



70 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

This sum furnished a per capita of SI. 37^ and paid 57 per cent of 
the entire tuition in the public schools, the total expenditures as 
estimated by the trustees being $474, 370. 52. ^ 

The State superintendent, in his report, called attention to the 
failure to appropriate $1.50 per child as required by law, because of 
the lack of funds, urged that a "fixed ratio of distribution be estab- 
lished," and asserted that the present amount was ''certainly not 
sufficient to sustain a well-developed and efficient system." Be- 
cause of the State debt, however, his demands for the schools were 
modest. In a letter to Rev. J. H. Baker, dated July 3, 1857, he 
said: 

I do not think it would be safe at present to attempt the increase of the school fund 
beyond such an amount as will produce $1.50 or $1.60 per child. That much can 
be appropriated and still leave enough to meet the State bonds as they fall due. * * * 

I would also dread to see an attempt made now to establish normal schools at much 
expense to the State. Public opinion does not seem ripe for the movement, and 
a failure would not only prevent effort hereafter in that direction, but will react 
injuriously upon our system. My hope has been that the county associations of 
teachers gradually protracted into institutes may be made to supply the place of 
normal schools at present and by degrees prepare the public mind for an advance 
movement by demonstrating the utility of special preparation on the part of teachers.^ 

Gen. Perry notes that many county superintendents appointed 
under the act of 1856 found their counties in a state of educational 
chaos and that most of the year was spent in the work of organiza- 
tion, an ''unprecedented impulse" being thus given to education. 
He believed that the cardinal points toward which special effort 
should then be directed were: 

1 . The construction and furnishing of schoolhouses. 

2. The qualification of teachers. 

3. The enlightenment of public opinion. 

Of the character and value of schoolhouses as they then were, we 
are left in no doubt by a writer in the first number of the Alabama 
Educational Journal, January, 1857. The article was published by 
Gen. Perry and may therefore be assumed to be with his tacit author- 
ity and sanction. This writer says : 

The increase of wealth and energy has given us comfortable and some elegant pri- 
vate residences. Large and beautiful churches have been erected. Public spirit 
has also extended to the erection of commodious jails and courthouses. * * * A 
large number of the schoolhouses of our State have come under our observation and 
of this number, we truthfully say that at least nineteen-twentieths are in an un- 
finished condition — without chimneys or stoves, either unceiled or unplastered, 
badly ventilated or entirely without windows, miserably furnished with benches 
and desks, with no place for water buckets or dinner buckets, and iij. every respect 
the most uninviting houses in the entire vicinity. The outside appearances are, if 
anything, worse — -the house unpainted, the grounds unimproved, no shade trees or 
shrubbery, no pleasant playyards. 

I See Perry's report for 1856, in Alabama Educational Journal, May and June, 1857. 
> Official letter book, 1858-1860, MS. 



WORK OP THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 71 

Another writer said that many of the schoolhouses were old, decay- 
ing log cabins, and were devoted to schools because fit for no other 
use. He estimated that only about one-eighth of the school popula- 
tion could then be furnished with decent school buildings. Gen. 
Perry himself said in 1857 that notwithstanding great improvement 
since 1854 — 

one-third of the structures in which the pupils of our public schools are congregated 
are destitute alike of every attractive feature and every element of comfort. 

Another anonymous writer contributed a series of articles on the 
"School law of Alabama" to Gen. Perry's Alabama Educational 
Journal,^ which had all of the merits of frankness, and which showed 
that there was at least one person in the State who knew how to 
think for himself and to express himself in v^igorous English for the 
general enlightenment of the people on this new educational system- 
He complains of the indifference of the public to educational work. 
Writing of the superintendent's report, he says, with a piquancy and 
flavor that is strongly modern: 

We do not believe that five editors in the State have read it, and we doubt if 10 
lawyers, doctors, or ministers have seen a copy of it. The apathy that hangs over our 
educational interests is perfectly surprising. WhUe every paper in the State would 
contain, as an item of general interest, the conversion of a Hottentot or Kangaroo to 
Christianity, or would follow with doggish pertinacity the footsteps of a filibuster to 
his final doom, not one in ten, judging from their silence concerning it, recognizes the 
existence of such a document as the Annual Report of the Superintendent of Educa- 
tion, or of such an interest as it discusses. 

This writer then pays his respects to the school law itself. The 
constitution of the State declares that "schools and the means of 
education shall forever be encouraged," he says, but it would seem 
to be that the present law might be combated on constitutional 
grounds, for nothing appeare more plain than that by its influence 
schools and the means of education are to be forever discouraged. 

He says further: 

The school law of Alabama is very nearly allied to that of New York in one respect, 
while it is essentially different in another. On paper it will bear the most rigid 
inspection; Indeed, it challei^es the admiration of the most critical scholar. We are 
certain it was written by a man of unquestionable literary taste, but it was written 
without the slightest reference to its adaption to the State of Alabama. It provides 
for trustees, county and State superintendents, while the fund about which it talks 
and on which it was founded would scarcely pay said officers with 8 per cent interest. 
On paper, it compares well with the New York law. In its practical effects, it com- 
pares with the law of no State with which we are acquainted. 

The principal duty of the county superintendent seems to be to push up the various 
townships to an election of their trustees, by threatening to withhold the $1.25 per child 
if this provision of the law is not complied with. The business of the trustee when 
elected is to receive this little stipend and pay it over to the teacher. Year after year 

' Beginning with December, 1S58. 



72 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

is this little round of duty performed, and year after year no more good is accomplished 
thanwouldbeby making a bonfire of the monay at the center of each township. * * * 

The county of Mobile has long since relieved itself of the sluggish movements of the 
State, and has perfected a system of its own. * * * The children of this county 
have nothing of which to complain. Pupils in tne primary and intermediate depart- 
ments are educated free of charge. In the grammar and high schools tuition is |2.50 
and $4 per month, respectively. Into some of these schools every cliild in the county 
is entitled to admission. In this respect Mobile has no rival in the State with which 
she need fear a comparison. * * * A tax of half a cent on a dollar of the property 
of the State would give every child within its limits an opportunity to secure an 
education fitting it for the duties of Life. 

In his fourth article, this writer says that "many persons are found ready to contro- 
vert the principle [of education] itself." He presents, also, some real difficulties. 
"The chasm between the wealthy and poorer classes is here far more impassable than 
in the North. * * * Where there is no community there can be no school." 

He suggests that the amount of money needed for the sohools be 
raised by taxation; that it be expended in building suitable school- 
bouses for every 25 pupils, and that competent teachers be paid the 
equivalent of $1,000 per year; that a uniform course of study and 
uniform textbooks be adopted. 

Fortunately, we have official letters in which Gen. Perry expresses 
himself on some of the questions discussed by the anonymous writei, 
and where lie gives us what we may characterize as an official view of 
the matter. As to the general interpretation of the school law, he 
writes C. O. Shepherd, at Huntsville, on January 7, 1858: ^ 

In pronouncing upon the school law as a whole, it must be borne in mind that it 
was not framed for such localities as Huntsville, but was designed to take effect over 
50,000 square miles of territory, in most of which the teachers employed were deplor- 
ably ignorant, and their schools, ex necessitate rei, of the humblest grade. 

The task assumed by the State was not only to furnish such pecuniary aid to the 
people as it might be able, but to set to work such agencies as might tend to improve 
the quality of the instruction which our youth were receiving. It was, therefore, a 
matter of primary concern, to elevate the standard of qualifications among the com- 
mon-school teachers of the State, and by degrees to get rid of those who proved hope- 
lessly incompetent. One of the means employed for this purpose was the super- 
vision and inspection of the schools by men selected for the purpose. * * * The 
law, however, does not give them the right to prescribe textbooks or to control 
the internal management of the schools. * * * As a further means of improving 
the character of the common-school instruction, it is the policy of the law to maintain 
a well-defined line of distinction between public schools and those which are not. It 
has expressly provided that no school shall participate in the school [fund] set apart 
for educational purposes "unless such school shall be instructed by a teacher or 
teachers duly examined, approved, and employed by competent and lawful authority 
as hereinbefore provided." 

The main object of this was to prevent wortUess teachers from getting up little 
schools in pine-pole pens throughout the country and having the public fund frittered 
away upon them. 

A year later his successor points out the particular classes for 
whom the public schools were primarily organized and the necessity 

1 Official letter book, 1858-1860, MS. 



WOEK OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 73 

of reaching them. In a letter to J. B. Speake, February 4, 1859, he 

says : ^ 

The greatest difficulty in its [the school's] way now is the ignorance of the law or 
a disregard for its provisions manifested by the trustees. No child of the educa- 
tional age can be excluded from a public school whether the school be taught by a 
lady or not. If such a proceeding were allowed, it might and most probably would 
result in the admission only of such pupils as were able to pay a tuition fee in addition 
to the amount arising from the educational fund and would exclude the children of 
the poor who are unable to pay and for whose benefit principally the fund was estab- 
lished. Such a construction would bring the law into merited disfavor and defeat 
its object, which is to extend upon equal terms to all the children of our State the 
inestimable blessing of Liberal instruction. 

These discussions, these strictures, had their influence in awaken- 
ing the people to a keener realization of the importance of schools. 
There were signs of growing recognition. The income from public 
funds was: 1855, $237,515.39; 1856, $267,689.41; 1857, $281,824.41; 
1858, $271,378.97. 

These figures indicate that the system was growing in importance 
and general usefulness, but it had not yet passed the age when it was 
free from attack. In the assembly of 1857-58 the attack was made 
by no less an authority than Gov. John A. Winston himself, who in 
his message for that year suggested that — 

the expense of a county superintendent might be avoided by constituting the probate 
judge and the county commissioner in the several counties as a body to act in place 
of that officer. The appropriation should be applied more on the principle of equity 
amongst the scholars thi-oughout the State. Severe scrutiny should be exercised in 
regard to the use of unsound textbooks; * * * unfortunately, as yet, our school 
books and teachers are imported. * * * By a prohibition of all books incul- 
cating improper pentiments to be taught in the South, we may soon insure the pos- 
session of textbooks the work of our citizens. 

Surely Gov. Winston had not read the recent history of his own 
State, since what was substantially this identical scheme had been 
abandoned only two years before. 

Tliere were also other lines of attack on the county superintendent, 
and for other reasons. On January 21, 1858, the minority of the 
senate committee on education filed a protest in which they denounced 
the county superintendent and declared that : 

No officer with such arbitrary power should be placed over a free people to dictate 
to them or their school trustees in the matter of educating their own children. 

They urged that, if this county superintendent should remove or 
refuse to license "such teachers as the trustees should select," his 
office should be abolished. 

In reply to all of these attacks Gen. Perry points out the necessity 
for the position and the impossibility of getting the work done by 
the judges of probate as the law of 1854 attempted. He shows also 

I Official letter book, 1858-1860, MS. 



74 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

that quite as much money would be misspent for lack of supervision 
as this office would cost, and that this had been the actual experience 
in Louisiana. He then adds : 

It is the deliberate conviction of one wlio has watched the progress of this move- 
ment with sleepless vigilance and solicitude, and who will not now, it is hoped, be 
suspected of having any personal ends to accomplish by the assertion that the system 
could not have survived until the present time under an administration provided 
for it by the law of 1854. 

Perhaps the weight of the superintendent's report for 1857 was 
directed to the defense of the county superintendents, for that office, 
created by the act of 1856, became at once "a favorite point of 
assault by those who were unfriendly to any State system," and in 
that connection the hoary argument of economy had met heavy 
drafts at the hands of the conservatives. But another phase of the 
law was not far behind in the severity of the criticisms which it 
received. Tliis was the apportionment of the school funds. 

The senate protest of January 21, 1858, demanded first of all that 
the method of apportioning the school funds should be changed. 
They demanded that the interest on the sixteenth section certificates 
be increased from 6 per cent to 8 per cent,^ and, although these 
certificates represented no real value, they insisted that this interest, 
raised by a general tax on all the counties, should be paid first of 
all out of the public taxes, and that after this was paid the remaining 
sum available for educational purposes should be distributed to all 
the counties "according to the number of children within the edu- 
cational age within each county in the State." To justify this 
method of distribution, they claimed from court decisions that the 
sixteenth section funds were a perpetuity granted to them by the 
Federal Congress of which they could not be divested by law and 
that the State law, as it then stood, substantially making the counties 
without sixteenth section funds equal with those that had such 
funds, -was unconstitutional in that it granted certain counties 
* ' exclusive privileges ." 

It is the old story of the rich county disliking to aid the educational 
work of the poor county. In their protest a table is given where it is 
shown that while 15 of the poorer counties paid $51,983.92 in taxes 
and received $7,598.51 from sixteenth-section funds, they also received 
in 1856, for education in addition to the above, $61,281.47 from the 
State. On the other hand, while 15 of the wealthier counties paid 
the same year $394,762.74 in taxes and received $52,177.27 from 
sixteenth-section fmids, they were allowed from the general State 

1 Note this demand. Art 1, sec. 3, of the act of Feb. 14, 1856, provides: "The annual interest at 8 per 
cent on the fund which has accraed or may hereafter accnie from the sale of the sixteenth sections of the 
several townships of this State," yet it is evident that the sixteenth-section fund, during the following 
years, drew only 6 per cent. 



WOEK OP THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 75 

tax only $45,112.18 in addition for schools.^ But it may be answered 
that, according to the census of 1850, these 15 wealthier counties had 
61,111 children from 5 to 20 years of age, and hence, assuming this 
as substantially the school population in 1856,^ they received $1.59 
for each child. The 15 poorer counties in 1850 had 46,153 children 
from 5 to 20 years of age, and so received, on the same basis, only 
$1.49 per child. 

Supt. Perry devotes a large part of his report for 1857 to an answer 
of this protest. The apportionment of school funds as then pro- 
vided by law was an effort to equalize the amount distributed so as 
to extend the benefit as nearly as might be to the State as a whole. 
The "violent attack at the last session of the legislature" on this 
principle was made in the interest of the wealthier counties, and made 
notwithstanding the fact that the income of the sixteenth-section 
fund was derived from State taxation and not from invested funds; 
the sixteenth-section fund itself, as it then existed, '^ originated with 
a great wrong to more than two-thirds of the people of the State." 
The superintendent then shows that the conditions under which the 
sixteenth sections and other school lands were granted the State 
were such as to render this so-called ''magnificent donation" of 
public lands — 

in reality a purchase, a purchase for which a valuable consideration was paid, and 
paid, too, by the whole people of the whole State. The direction which the benefits 
of this purchase took, under the terms of the compact, constitutes the wrong alluded 
to. It was a wrong because a departure from that rigid impartiality which should 
characterize all the acts of government, even in dispensing gratuitous favors. It was 
a wrong, because it secured to a few of the least needy, advantages gained by the 
sacrifices of all. It was a wrong, too, to which the State was a party, and for which 
it is in a large degree responsible, because, as one of the contracting powers, it could 
easily have had it otherwise, as is abundantly shown in the admissions into the Union 
of recent States * * *. 

From obvious causes, it happens that, with perhaps one prominent exception, the 
heaviest taxpaying counties have the largest sixteenth-section funds. This fact is 
seized upon to sustain the views which are here combated ; and the counties which may 
be regarded as extremes in point of wealth have been an-anged in parallel columns, 
with the amounts received for school purposes and paid as taxes by each annexed 
* * *. The only legitimate conclusion to be drawn from it is that the various 
amounts which different localities contribute to the support of the government ought 
to regulate in some way the relative benefits which government dispenses in return. 

The fight against the method of equalization adopted by the 
legislature of 1854 was waged for years, but unsuccessfully. That 
law itself was a compromise and was hardly less agreeable to the 
conservatives than to the radicals. The anonymous critic of the 
school law even asserts that ^ so long as the sixteenth section remained 

' See protest in Senate Journal, 1858-59, pp. 235-243. 

» Census of 1850 gives total number of children, 5-20, as 176,659; school census of 1856 gives total number, 
•-21, as 171,093. 
• Alabama Educ. Jour., 1858. 



76 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

the property of the district it would be impossible to equalize to all 
the townships the money to be devoted to public education; he argued 
that conditions were such that equality could never be attained 
until these sixteenth-section funds were consolidated with the other 
funds and asks: 

Can not our good parent, Congress, be induced to take back its unfortunate gift 
and rebestow it in such a manner as not to cripple every effort made to advance the 
interests it was designed to promote? 

In his report for 1857 the superintendent pointed out another 
weakness of the system, that under which the county school money 
was paid out by the county tax collector. He said: 

A majority of those officers do not make their collections in time to cash promptly 
the orders issued upon them from this office in favor of the county superintendents. 

The result Wiis that in some cases no school officer could tell how 
much a particular school district would receive or when that amount 
would bo paid. The teachers were the ones who, in the last analysis, 
bore the brunt of this burden of uncertainty. Their salaries were 
nearly always in arrears, and they had only the poor choice of dis- 
counting their vouchei-s or waiting for months for the salaries due. 
And woree still, if the school funds were insufficient to pay the salaries 
earned, or if, through the carelessness and neglect of local trustees, 
funds were withheld altogether, as the law directed, the trustees went 
free and the teachei-s had no redress. The whole system was crying 
out for an equahzation of tax burdens as well as of advantages, for 
a definite knowledge of the sums to be distributed per capita of 
school population, for greater promptness in payment, and for better 
informed and more earnest county and district officers. 

The question of the improvement of teachers had been taken up by 
Gen. Perry and urged on county superintendents, local trustees, and 
on teachers themselves. The Alabama Educational Association was 
organized in 1856, and had several successful meetings. Local or 
county associations were beginning to make their influence felt and 
to give "cheering assurance of much future good." Their proceed- 
ings and addresses were published, created some discussion, and 
opened the way for the consideration of teachei-s' institutes, normal 
schools, public libraries, etc. Growing interest was indicated and 
promoted also by the publication of the Alabama Educational Journal, 
begun at Montgomery by Gen. Perry January 1, 1857. It led a 
precarious existence to the end of 1859, being once suspended and 
once changed in form. It died before the pressure of war was upon 
it, but not before it had been of service in broadening the horizon of 
the men who were fighting against the powers of darkness. Questions 
of sectional politics were not entirely absent in these educational 
considerations. We find them cropp'mg out on the subject of text- 



WORK OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 77 

books, and it was perhaps with Gov. Winston's attitude on the matter 
in mind that Gen. Perry writes Hon. B. F. Porter, September, 29,1857: 

I believe that a good opportunity now exists for some one to make largely by the 
publication of a series of works of that description. They must be, however, fully 
equal, if not superior, to any extant. They must be afforded, too, on as favorable terms 
as any now on the market. Sectional prejudices are not strong enough to seciure for 
a work gotten up here favor or patronage over northern ones superior in quality or 
cheaper in price. Caeteris paribus, it will have greatly the advantage, the complaints 
of some southern authors to the contrary notwithstanding. I * * * do hope that 
some plan may be devised for supplying Alabama and the South with indigenous works 
that shall meet the wants of our schools.' 

Hon. Gabriel B. Duval became the second State supermtendent on 
September 1, 1858. He completed and pubUshed the report for the 
year ending November 30, 1858, dated October, 1859, and we have 
no others tiU the days of reconstruction. In 1858 the school popula- 
tion was reported at 180,160, with an enrollment of 98,274, or 54.5 
per cent, and an average attendance of 42,274, or 23.4 per cent, in 
2,597 schools. The total expenditure for 1858 was given at 
$564,210.46, which w^ould indicate that $292,831.49 was received by 
tuition and from other private sources. 

Mr. Duval continued the work of organization begun by his prede- 
cessor. Besides phases already noticed, he points out that under the 
new State system private academies were decreasing in members 
and in attendance, and marks these things as indications of a change 
of sentiment in the State more favorable to the pubHc system. 

He says: 

Indifference has not been felt toward education itself, but to governmental aid 
in procuring it. The happy condition of our social relations, and the general diffusion 
of wealth, has rendered it comparatively unnecessary; wherever it was needed, pri- 
vate generosity generally anticipated public aid. 

He says further: 

This indifference has had another cause in an objection, rising almost to repug- 
nance, to what was improperly supposed to be State interference with personal 
duties and rights, a fear of the absorption of the individual in the body politic, 
and of his subjection to the State. 

' OflScial Letter Book, 1S58-1860, MS. As early as January, 1844, the Southern Educational Journal 
advertises a series of Alabama readers prepared by Charles W. Sanders: "The attention of teachers and 
parents is invited to the following series of readers. Complaints have long been heard of the reading books 
of the North, made by people whose political institutions differ from ours, and thrown upon the children 
of the South, for their indiscriminating minds to peruse. The books forming this series have been care- 
fully revised and freed from all objectionable pieces." The list of other school books oflfered in the same 
comiection and apparently used in the schools of the State, public and private, include: 

The Child's Reader and the Rhetorical Speaker, by T. D. P. Stone; Rhetorical Reader, by Ebenezer 
Porter; Webster's Spelling Book and Dictionary; Olney's Geography; Watts's Improvement of the Mind; 
Bullions' English Grammar; Comstock's Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, Mineralogj^ Physiology; Olm- 
sted's Natural Philosophy; Worcester's Dictionary; Abercrombie's Moral Feelings; Combe on Health; 
Goodrich's Ecclesiastical History; Lincoln's Botany; Burrett's Geography of the Heavens; Alexander's 
Evidences; Willard's Histories; Hedge's Logic; Newman's Rhetoric and Political Economy; Kames's 
Criticism; Davies's mathematical books; Anthon's series of Latin and Greek books; Andrews' Latin 
books; Bullions' Greek Grammar; Levizac's French Grammar, etc. 



78 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

This process of reasoning applied not only to Alabama, but to the 
whole South and explains to a great extent the slow growth of the 
public systems of education in that section. 

It is evident that educational progress was being made in Ala- 
bama under the administration of Mr. Duval, but in the legislature 
of 1858-59 old foes with new faces again attacked the system. 
They now sought to abolish the office of State superintendent and 
give his duties to the comptroller; to abolish the county superintend- 
ents also and give their duties to the county treasurer — aU in the 
name of economy. Gov. Winston was now nearing the term of his 
office, but in two years he had seen a great light. He now argues 
that the duties of the comptroller were already heavy; that school 
matters would require for him an additional clerk; so Httle would be 
saved. In the same way, if the county superintendents were re- 
placed by county treasurers they would demand more pay and so 
''little or nothing could be saved in that way." He then adds: 

It occurs to me, that those who contemplate making this change have not maturely 
considered the subject. The education of the children of the State is one of the most 
sacred duties of parents and the Government. The constitution declares "that schools 
and the means of education shall forever be encouraged in this State," * * * Any 
policy calculated to cripple or retard its progress should be avoided.* 

Such material as we have for the period 1858-1860 shows that there 
was a slow but steady growth; counties were better organized; 
schools were estabhshed and it would appear that the public funds 
were expended in the way least likely to emphasize the pauper school 
idea. The trustees went on the assumption that public funds 
should supplement private endeavor, and so successful was the 
scheme that we ffiid, in 1858, an average school term of 6.125 months, 
while in some townships, as in Pickens County, the sixteenth section 
funds were sufficient to keep the schools open aU the year. 

No figures from the office of Supt. Duval are available after those 
of 1858, but their place may be supplied in part by those of the 
Federal Census for 1860: 

Number of schools 1, 903 

Number of teachers 2, 038 

Number of pupils 61, 751 

Amount derived from — 

Taxation $63, 845 

Public funds 199, 318 

Other sources 226, 311 

Total income ■- - 489, 474 

1 See his message of Nov. 14, 1859, pp. 9-10 (copy in Curry Collection, not in H. and S. Jour, of 1858-59). 
These are substantially the identical words used by Gov. A. B. Moore in his message to the same legis- 
lature on Dec. 16, 1859. In S. and H. Jour, of that date. 



WORK OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 79 

There was reported iii the same census 206 ''academies and other 
schools," with 400 teachers and 10,778 pupils. These schools received — 

From endowment $37, 800 

From "public funds " 23, 547 

From other sources 160, 287 

Total income 221, 634 

The same census reports a total school attendance for the year 
ending June 1, 1860, of 98,204, including 114 free colored, and that 
$6,256 was collected in the State for schools. 

Measuring the general mtelligence by the circulation of the news- 
paper press it will be found that according to the census of 1860 it 
consisted of 9 daily, 1 biweekly, 6 triweekly, 77 weekly, and 3 
monthly journals, with a total annual circulation of 7,175,444 copies. 
The white population of the State in 1860 was 526,431, which would 
incUcate an average of 13.6 copies per white inhabitant, but since 
the number of outside papers coming into the State was no doubt 
much larger than those which went out, the true number of copies 
per inhabitant was considerably larger. 

Supt. Duval's report for 1858 was the last printed till after the close 
of the Civil War, and the source material for the period is scanty 
enough, for those days of excitement told heavily on the quiet routine 
of educational work. Supt. Duval signed the official correspondence 
for April 9, 1861; then there is a break till May 20, when his chief 
clerk, W. C. Allen, signs as acting superintendent. Mr. Duval had 
gone to the front as captain of a company of volunteers. But even 
the clang of arms did not entirely hush the hum of educational activ- 
ity. In August Mr. Allen said that Gov. Moore would recommend 
the Avithdrawal (in the future) of the State educational appropriation 
till the end of the war, but that there would be no other change for that 
year unless he should be able to declare a per capita school dividend of 
$1.35 or $1.40 instead of the $1.30 declared "for the last two or three 
years." In 1861-62 the dividend was $1.20 per capita; in 1862-63 
it was $1.10. In 1860 and 1861 the auditor's report shows that the 
total school expenditures were $567,740, or $283,870 per year; in 
1862 it was $231,774; 1863, $268,731; 1864, $233,978; 1865, $112,783. 

These sums do not include $17,700 spent in 1860-61 and $10,718.75 
spent in 1861-62 on the mihtary training of "State cadets." These 
expenditures were incurred under the act of February 21, 1860, which 
provided "for the military education of two young men from each 
county." They were to attend the ^lihtary School at GlenviUe, in 
Barbom- County, or that at La Grange, in Frankhn County, to both of 
which the State had furnished arms. They were to receive for their 
support $250 a year, and for their part agreed to return to their own 
county "and there teach and drill the miUtia" for the same length of 
time as they had received State support in school. 



80 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

There was in Alabama, of course, as everywhere, trouble over the 
falling .value of Confederate notes, and much correspondence with local 
officers on the subject. Capt. Duval was again in his office March 
14, 1864, but sterner mihtary duties called him elsewhere, and W. C. 
Allen served as superintendent for the remainder of that year, being 
succeeded in office January 1, 1865, by John B. Taylor. 

The correspondence of the superintendent during the war period 
is small in amount, broken and fragmentary in character, but suffi- 
cient to show that the schools did not lose their general organization. 
As has been shown from official sources, funds were distributed each 
year, reports were called for and schools were still being taught 
throughout the State as late as March, 1865. 

Fortmiately for the student of the educational history of Alabama, 
the official letter book of the superintendent for the whole of the 
war period (June 1, 1860, to April 25, 1865) has been preserved and 
has been made available for this study by the courtesy of Thomas M. 
Owen, LL. D., director of the Alabama State department of archives 
and history. It seems well to close this chapter with the transcrip- 
tion of four letters written in March, 1865, by Supt. Taylor that teU 
far more dramatically than mere narrative the difficulties and trials 

of the last days: 

March 1st, 1865. 
To His Excellency, 

Gov. Thomas H. Watts: 

The revised school law of the State requires of the State superintendent of educa- 
tion annually on the 1st of March, a report to the governor, embracing — 
First, A brief history of his labors. 
Second, An abstract of the reports received by him from the county superintendents, 

exhibiting the condition of the public schools. 
Third, Estimates and accounts of expenditures of school moneys. 
Fourth, Plans for the improvement of the school funds and the better organization of 

the public schools. 
Fifth, All such other matters relating to his office and to the public" schools as he 

shall deem fit to communicate, etc. 

At the time of my election to the office of State superintendent, my predecessor, 
Hon. W. C. Allen, had nearly completed the calculations for the distribution of the 
funds for 1864, and deeming it unwise and impolitic to take possession of the office 
until that was completed and the quarter expired, I did not file my bond and enter 
upon the duties until the 1st day of January, 1865. Consequently, the liistory of my 
labors would be very brief and unsatisfactory. Under this head I have nothing to 
report except an official visit to the County of Coosa, where I had the pleasure of 
meeting in county convention the superintendents and several of the teachers and 
trustees of that county, and to initiate an undertaking which I hope will result in 
furnishing our public schools with abridged textbooks to supply a want now severely 
felt by parents and teachers. 

The reports of the condition of the public schools for the year 1"864 have been 
received from only 15 counties, leaving 37 counties unreported. Many causes have 
occurred to prevent their reception. Many teachers have been called into the military 
service and made no reports to the county superintendents; others have neglected 
their duties; in some instances I am informed of changes in the office of county super- 
intendent during the month of January, and in others, I am assured that the reports 



WORK OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 81 

have been mailed and failed to reach this office. All the county superintendents, 
not within the enemy's lines, have been informed by letter of this default, and dupli- 
cate or original reports may be expected . Without the missing reports it is impossible 
to approximate the conditions of the public schools within the State. 

And as plans for the improvement of the school funds and the better organization 
of the public schools are expected to be submitted in the report of the State superin- 
tendent and must be based upon the reports received from the county superintendents, 
and as this report is intended to furnish information to superintendents and trustees 
and the authorities of other States of the actual working of our State system of educa- 
tion, and as under the circumstances named it must necessarily be imperfect and 
unsatisfactory, I therefore submit this as a partial report and respectfully ask your 
Excellency's permission to complete the same at some future period before the session 
of the general assembly, when with more reliable and fuller data, more satisfactory 
information can be given and the suggestions contemplated by the law can be made 
upon a reliable basis. 

I would beg leave further to state to your Excellency that the reports made by my 
predecessors bear date of the month of October, ever since the passage of the act of 
1856. 

Very respectfully, your obdt. servt. 

Jno. B. Taylor. 

March 11th, 1865. 
W. H. Huston, Esq., 

Co. Sup't, Dallas Co., Selma, Ala. 

Dear Sir: I am much gratified to learn from your letter of the 8th inst. that the 
absorbing and engrossing interest of the times and the perilous condition of the country 
have not retarded the educational interests of the populous and wealthy county 
which you represent, and that parents e\-ince an "enthusiastic interest in the edu- 
cation of their children." Of a truth "Carpe diem" should be the motto of our 
people at this time, for "we know not what a day may bring forth," nor how soon 
present advantages may pass away before the invasion of a ruthless foe, or how even 
their sons may be called away from the pursuits of learning to the more immediate 
and pressing necessity of defense. 

I trust that the wisdom of Congress may adopt some plan whereby disabled soldiers 
and officers, unfit for duty in the field, may be retired, and thus competent instruc- 
tors from among the educated take their places as instructors of the rising generation. 
An accomplished officer, formerly a teacher, and now himself maimed and unable to 
resume his command, informed me that there are many such now spending their time 
in idleness or assigned to duties for which they are incompetent. He also stated 
that he had mentioned the matter to Members of Congress and that he hoped they 
would take such action as would lead to beneficial results. Let us then wait in hope. 

I am pleased with your plan for procuring schoolbooks and trust you will meet 
with eminent success. It should certainly be adopted in every county when prac- 
ticable, and has been acted upon to some extent by the booksellers of this city. 

Prof. B. T. Smith, of Central Institute, is now engaged upon an abridged arith- 
metic for the use of public schools and has completed the work as far as division. 
When that is completed I shall request him to pubUsh, if a publisher can be obtained, 
lea%ing the remainder for a future edition. This part will answer for primary classes 
and will supply a present want. If encouraged in this undertaking, the professor 
will enter upon abridgments of other schoolbooks. * * * 

You will oblige me by giving me notice of the time and place of holding your 
county convention. It is my desire to visit as many as the limited time at my com- 
mand will permit. 

Very respectfully, yours, 

Jno. B. Taylor, 

State Supt. 
75075°— 15 6 



82 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

March 14th, 1865. 
To His Excellency, Thomas H. Watts, 

Governor of Alabama. 

Governor: I have the honor to call your attention to the inclosed copy of a letter 
from Col. Jefferson Falkner requesting the discharge of Harman R. Gay, corporal in 
Company K, 46th Ala. Vol. Regiment, in consequence of his election as county super- 
intendent of education for Randolph County. 

Mr. Gay was duly elected in May, 1864, and gave bond, which is on file in this office, 
as required by law. I understand your excellency to recognize to the fullest extent 
the right of the citizens of the State in the election of their officers, and yet if the 
officer of their choice is detained in the military service, the exercise of that right is of 
no avail and of ho practical utility. 

The authorities of the Confederate Government do not pretend even to claim 
military service from State officers not enrolled at the time of election and their 
exemption from such service is provided for by law. 

Tlie reason for tliis exemption, founded in the principle of State sovereignty, and the 
unqualified and unrestricted right of the people to the choice of their officers, applies, 
to my mind, with equal force in those cases where parties are, at the time of election, 
held in the military service of the common government. 

But if doubt exists upon that point, comity and courtesy as between the Confederate 
and State Governments would require that the expressed will of the people should be 
respected and that they should be allowed the services of the officer of their choice in 
any capacity in wliich they may elect; and this without regard to the rank of the 
office or distinction of station. That this has been the view of the Legislature of 
Alabama is apparent from the fact that there is no provision of law whereby an office 
may be declared vacant by reason of the incumbent being in the military'' service of 
the State or of the Confederate States, though it may be for several other reasons. 

The office of superintendent of education for the several counties in this State 
can not be discharged by deputy; and while the payments of the school fund to the 
trustees may be made by a clerk, the receipts of money from tax collectors and the 
State treasury, examination of teachers, granting of licenses, annual visitation of 
schools, and decision of questions arising under the school laws must be done and 
made by the superintendent in person, and can not be delegated by him to others; 
nor does the law make any provision for the discharge of those duties by another while 
the incumbent is in military service. 

I would, therefore, respectfully request that your excellency would refer this case 
to the Hon. Secretary of War and ask the discharge of Corp. Gay from the military 
service, that he may enter upon the duties of his office. To judge by the returns now 
being made to tliis office and the information received from various parts of the State, 
the children of our gallant soldiers are not to any large extent enjoying the benefits of 
the provisions made by the State for theii* education by reason of irregularities, such 
as is seen in the present case, and which can only be corrected by a vigorous applica- 
tion of means at command, and the evil of an ignorant generation succeeding this 
arrested. A prudent government will seek its defense and safeguard in the hearts 
of an intelligent people. 

I am, very respectfully, your obdt. srvt., 

Jno. B. Taylor, 

State Supt. 

Marc& 22nd, 1865. 
To His Excellency Thomas H. Watts, 

Governor of Alabama. 
Governor: I have the honor to inclose a communication from Hon. James F. 
Bailey, judge of probate of Perry County, requesting my attention to condition of the 
public schools in that county in consequence of the detention in the Confederate 



WORK OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1856-1865. 83 

States military service of M. M. Cooke, county superintendent of Perry County, 
and asking that steps be taken to procure his discharge. 

Mr. Cooke is 1st sergt,., Co. G, 4th Ala. Vol. Regt., and was elected county superin- 
tendent in May, 1864, and gave bond and duly qualified for the performance of his 
office, but though, as I am informed, two applications have been made for his dis- 
charge, he is still retained in service to the detriment of the educational interests of 
his county. 

On the 14th instant I had the honor to address your excellency a similar application 
in respect to Corp. Harmen R. Gay, Co. K, 46th Ala. Regt., elected and qualified 
as county superintendent of Randolph County, and herewith I forward a copy of your 
excellency's indorsement upon that letter, satisfied that your views, being fully 
matured, have undergone no change, and that the same principle therein asserted 
by your excellency fully applies to the present case. 

I am also informed in the case of Mr. Cooke that he has been wounded in the leg 
and in consequence of that wound is partially, if not wholly, unfit for field service. 

The educational interests of Perry County are suffering from the absence of the 
superintendent, and if the condition of that and Randolph County should become 
general throughout the State, our educational system must be abandoned and the 
cMldren of our soldiers grow up in ignorance. 

I respectfully request that your excellency will use your official influence with the 
Hon. Secretary of War to procure the discharge of Sergt. Cooke, that he may enter upon 
the duties of his office. 

Very respectfully, your obdt. servt. 

Jno. B. Taylor, 
State Supt. of Education. 

The remainder of this war history and the fortunes of the public 
educational records themselves may be gathered from the Hon. 
John B. Ryan, State superintendent in 1866-67, in his report dated 
April 1, 1866: 

There has been no annual report made from this office since October, 1859,^ yet our 
system of public schools was kept up till the appointment of the provisional governor 
in July, 1865, although amidst embarrassments incident to a state of fierce warfare. 
The records, books, papers, etc., of this office were carted about the country in boxes, 
to keep them from the hands of spoilers, diuing the most of the time after 1863. Their 
preservation is cliiefly if not alone due to the vigilance, zeal, and activity of my 
worthy predecessor, the Hon. J. B. Taylor, to whom the friends of education in Ala- 
bama should ever feel grateful.^ 

1 This was Duval's report for 1858. 

' Report for 1865 quoted in Owen's Bibliography of Alabama. 



Chapter VIII. 
RECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 1865-1876. 



I. THE INTERMEDIATE PERIOD, 1865-1868. 

The war came to an end in May, 1865. The reconstruction govern- 
ment in Alabama was inaugurated July 13, 1868, This interme- 
diate period of three years — a period not of the old nor yet of the 
new — is largely barren of educational results, although demanding 
some consideration from the historian of education. A convention] 
sitting in Montgomery adopted on September 12, 1865, a new con- 
stitution. This convention was made up of Confederates and other] 
native sons, and their work was not submitted to the people. There! 
is no mention of education in this constitution, nor are there com-j 
plete printed reports from the State superintendents for the period.! 
Information on the subj ect comes mainly from later superintendents.! 
As has been seen, John B. Taylor became supermtendent on Januar] 
1, 1865, and served in that capacity until about April 1, 1866. He 
was succeeded by John B. Ryan, who served till November 30, 1867^ 
Then came M. A. Chisholm with service from December 1, 1867, t( 
July 23, 1868, when reconstruction began. 

Of the period represented by the school years 1865-66, 1866-67^ 
and 1867-68 (June 30), Dr. Cloud, in his first annual report datec 
November 10, 1869, says: 

I found that the previous government under the administration of Gov. Pattoi 
failed to pay the public-school money apportioned for the school year 1866 to quite 
a number of the counties of this State. It also failed to pay the public-school money 
apportioned for the school year of 1867 to a much larger number of the counties. 
Some of the county superintendents received the public-school moneys thus appor- 
tioned for the years 1866 and 1867, either in part or in whole, as our books show; but 
others received none whatever notwithstanding public schools were taught. There 
seems to be no satisfactory reason to be had from any source explaining why it was 
that some of the counties received their ajjportionment of these public-school funds, 
while others did not obtain any portion thereof. 

The superintendent * * * takes the position that the apportionment of the 
public-school fund for the years 1866 and 1867 was appropriately made Under exist- 
ing laws of the State, and that the State is bound in all good faith to her citizens to 
make good this apportionment of the public-school fund to the counties that have 
up to this time failed to receive it or so much thereof as may be necessary to pay 
the school service rendered in such counties for the school years of 1868 and 1869. 
84 



RECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 85 

So much for Dr. Cloud's review. Now, what were the original 
appropriations for these years, how much of these sums were used 
by Gov. Patton "to meet other pressing debts of the State," how 
much did the reconstructionists appropriate to cover these defi- 
ciencies, how did they order this money to be used, and what actually 
became of it ? 

The total apportionment for 1866 was S413,389.07, of which 
,1362,223.60 was drawn and $51,625.09 imdrawn. In 1867 the 
figures were $290,250.12 apportioned, $133,195.83 drawn, and $157,- 
054.29 undrawn. The sum apportioned for schools December 1, 
1867, to July 1, 1868, was $45,411.46. On November 10, 1869, 
there was still unpaid out of these three appropriations $254,090.84. 
On October 10, 1868, the reconstruction legislature provided $45,- 
411.46 to meet — 

the claims of teachers arising between December 1, 1867, and June 30, 1868, * * * 
which it was doubtless believed at the time the bill was introduced would cover all 
just and legal claims embraced within the period.^ 

February 23, 1870, it passed another act — 

appropriating the sum of $208,679.38 to cover the several amounts due and unpaid 
to those counties whose school moneys had been used by Gov. Patton to meet other 
pressing debts of the State. 

The act provided that this money should be disbursed " in accordance 
with the law under which the said amounts were apportioned at 
the time of apportionment," and then adds that the provisions of this 
act should "be so construed as to include all teachers who have 
taught a free pubHc school and have claims against the State without 
distmction on account of race or color." ^ 

Supt. Cloud had already decided officially (June 26, 1869) that 
under the law negroes were entitled to their share of the sixteenth- 
section fund,^ and the purpose of this particular act to admit the 
teachers of negro schools to a participation in the fund about to be 
distributed is manifest. Says Supt. Joseph Hodgson (Conservative), 
in his report dated January 28, 1871 : 

This sum of $208,679.38 * * * was apportioned among the counties by the late 
superintendent (Dr. Cloud) according to the amounts certified to be due. * * * 
In what manner this money has been disbursed by the county superintendents 
the present State superintendent is not fully informed. * * * It will be 
observed that the act making the appropriation fixes a proviso to it, a proviso 
which is doubtful, because the fund was justly due to those teachers alone who 
were employed under the then-existing school laws. The proviso read thus: "That 
the provisions of the foregoing act shall be so construed as to include all teachers who 
have taught a free public school and have claims against the State, without distinc- 
tion on account of race or color." The purpose of this proviso must be transparent. 
There were no colored teachers of State schools before July, 1868, and no colored 

1 See acts of Oct. 10, 1868, Laws of 1868, p. 255; and act of Feb. 23, 1870, Laws of 1869-70, p. 168. 

2 See acts of 1869-70, p. 169. 

' See official letter book under that date. 



86 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

pupils except such, as were recognized by the military commander between January 
and July, 1868; yet, as will presently be seen, an opportunity has been given for the 
misappropriation of this entire fund. 

In discussing the payment of these past-due claims, including 
those for teaching December 1, 1867, to July 1, 1868, Supt. Hodgson 
says further : 

The superintendent can only say that under his predecessor the above-mentioned 
sum of $45,411.46 was distributed to the several county superintendents without 
reference to the amount of unpaid claims held in any given county, but in proportion 
to an enumeration of white and colored children made in 1869. It is with reluctance 
that he has been driven to the conclusion that the acquisition and distribution of this 
sum of 145,411.46 and the larger sum appropriated for the years 1866 and 1867 
[$208,679.38] is the result of a deliberate scheme to divert the public-school fimds of 
the years 1866, 1867, and 1868 from their legitimate use and for the benefit of private 
schools which were established and conducted for private gain or for the promotion 
of political and sectarian ends. 

Supt. Hodgson bases this conclusion on a certain enactment of 
the State board of education, the intention of which — 

was evidently to give a color of authority to the newly appointed county superintend- 
ents for the disbursement of public money to private schools of a certain character. 
Under cover of this act large sums of money which had been turned over by township 
trustees to the new county superintendents, as also the several appropriations referred 
to, were squandered upon teachers of private schools who were in no wise connected 
with the public-school system, and who had already received pay from their patrons 
for their services. 

Specific instances are given by the superintendent: The county 
superintendent of Montgomery County paid himseK $1,692.60 for 
teaching a private school, and his account was allowed; and there was 
paid to a colored institution in Mobile at one time the sum of $5,327 
and at another $5,425, although it was under the support and control 
of a missionary society and its teachers had aheady been paid by 
that society. Up to the date of this report there had been paid 
out of this $45,411.46 only $9,019.02 of legitimate claims. 

Supt. Hodgson failed to secure any further information on the 
subject, and adds: 

It is probable that the great bulk of that fund has not been and will not be applied 
to the object for which the general assembly appropriated it. Such is one of the evil 
results of having two legislatures over this department. The disbursing legislature 
runs counter to the spirit of the appropriating legislature, and the State superintendent 
remains powerless to provide a remedy for transparent abuses.^ 

The protest of the superintendent was in vain, for so far as available 
sources show there was no fm-ther investigation of these arrears nor 
of the way they were expended. According to his report on Novem- 
ber 15, 1871, of these special appropriations $114,782.88 was still 
to be accounted for. 

1 This refers to the new board of education, considered later. 



RECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 87 

II. THE OLD REGIME AND THE NEW, 1868-1872. 

The constitution of 1868 was adopted by a convention which sat 
in Montgomery November 5 to December 6, 1867. This is the 
reconstruction constitution; it was submitted to the people and 
ratified February 4, 1868. Like that of 1819, it makes formal 
recognition of education as a part of the duties of the State, but it is 
sharply differentiated from the earher document and from all of its 
own day, except one, by the creation of a new and distinct governing 
authority in education. It placed the common school and the 
pubhc educational institutions, including the university, under the 
management of a new board, styled the State board of education, 
of which the superintendent of pubhc instruction was declared presi- 
dent, the governor an ex officio member, and to which were added 
two elected members from each congressional district. It was given 
authority — 

to exercise full legislative powers in reference to the public educational institutions 
of the State, and its acts, when approved by the governor, or when reenacted by two- 
thirds of the board in case of his disapproval, shall have the force and effect of law, 
unless repealed by the general assembly. 

The constitution said further: 

It shall be the duty of the board to establish throughout the State, in each township 
or other school district which it may have created, one or more schools, at which all the 
children of the State between the ages of 5 and 21 years may attend free. 

It recognized the old educational fmid of ante beUum days, 
declared it to be a "perpetual fund," and in addition to these sources 
donated to education "one-fifth of the aggregate annual mcome of 
the State." The assembly might give jDower to the local authorities 
to levy a poU tax, and "a specific amiual tax" was to be levied — 

upon all railroad, navigation, banking, and insurance corporations, and upon all 
insurance and foreign bank and foreign exchange agencies, and uijon the profits of 
foreign bank bills issued in this State by any corporation, partnership, or persons — 

to be devoted exclusively to the maintenance of pubhc schools. 

The new regime began July 13, 1868, with the meeting of the gen- 
eral assembly, the ratification of the fourteenth amendment, and the 
inauguration of W. H. Smith as the first reconstruction governor. 
One of Gov. Smith's first acts was to appoint Dr. N. B. Cloud, who 
had been more or less in pubhc hfe under the old regime, as superin- 
tendent of pubhc instruction (served till November 23, 1870). On the 
same day the new State board of education met for its prehminary 
organization. 

The new school system itself did not difi^er greatly from the ante 
bellum one, except that the new constitution declared the schools to 
be entirely free. It was top-heavy, however, with the number and 
character of its adimnistrative officers, who either from design or 



88 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

otherwise were to absorb a large share of the public funds before they 
reached the schools. The stream could rise no higher than its source, 
and Dr. Fleming characterizes the school officers appointed by Dr. 
Cloud as "a forlorn lot." One signed for his salary with an X mark; 
another was of bad morals and incompetent; another was a preacher 
who had been expelled for misappropriating charity funds. ^ 

One of the earhest acts of the new reconstruction legislature was 
to transfer to the board of education control of unexpended school 
funds in the hands of school officers and to authorize an investiga- 
tion of these funds by the new county superintendents who were then 
being appointed by the State superintendent. It also chartered lot- 
teries, on condition that they pay an annual tax to the school fund. 
The Mutual Aid Association, whose object was "to distribute books, 
paintings, works of art, scientific instruments," etc., was to pay 
$2,000 annually; the Mobile Charitable Association was to pay 
$1,000. The office of commissioner of lotteries was estabhshed and 
his duty was to levy and collect 1 per cent "on the gross amount 
of sales or the gross income of the business of all lotteries now 
authorized or that may hereafter be authorized by law in this State." 

Other laws were passed to make more thorough the transfer of 
the school machinery to the new authorities, and it was ordered that 
the pubhc schools should be opened by October 1, 1868, "as far as 
practicable." Eleven normal schools were estabhshed, the expenses 
of which were to be paid out of the general school funds, and a law 
was passed "to secure cooperation with the Bureau of Refugees, 
Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands." This law provided that the 
State superintendent should act on the "general understanding" 
that (1) the bureau was to furnish school buildings; (2) the mis- 
sionary associations were to select and transport competent teachers 
to the scene of their labors; (3) the State was to examine and pay 
these teachers; and (4) the superintendent was to secure the transfer 
to the State of schoolhouses controlled by the bureau. 

Another act, general in character, defined the rights and duties 
of the State superintendent, the county superintendent, and the local 
teachers. These did not differ in essential detail from those in 
earher laws. But it should be noted that the races were to be kept 
entirely distinct, "unless it be by the unanimous consent of the 
parents and guardians of such children." 

For its part the board of education began with an abundance of 
legislation, but it is difficult to say how many of these laws got into 
school practice. Some were in advance on the old ordQr, e. g., re- 
quiring reports on school moneys; furnishing schoolhouses and 
defining more exactly the duties of school officers; providing for 
certain city systems; fixing the grade of teachers, and providing for 

> See Fleming: Civil War and Reconstruction in Alabama, (1905), p. 609. 



EECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 89 

teachers' examinations and for normal schools; defining the scholastic 
year; and defining and estabhshing grades in the schools. These 
grades were fixed at four, and the subjects to be taught were outhned. 
With these rules and regulations the new school system went 
into operation with Dr. Cloud as State superintendent, and the 
reconstruction State board of education endowed with the power of 
legislation. The real difficulties of the schools during this period 
fell into one of two general categories. In the first place, it was 
difficult to secure local officers to administer the law; for the Con- 
servatives naturally stood in a hands-off attitude. The second diffi- 
culty was no less serious. The constitution provided that the school 
should be absolutely free, and while the available funds were not 
sufficient to secure this, no tuition might be charged. As a result 
of tills dilemma, the schools established were neither sufficient in 
number to serve the State nor long enough in term to serve the 
children. Or, as Supt. Hodgson put it in 1871 : 

The result of this rule was that a large number of schools were opened, but they 
were generally schools which accomplished nothing. There were too many pupils 
for the teachers, and too many teachers for the fund. The sum total of schools and 
pupils made a large show upon paper, but the school was generally closed before the 
pupil had time to learn the alphabet. 

It does not appear that there was much serious opposition to the 
schools. It is true that Dr. Cloud complains loudly of "idle poli- 
ticians" and "disappointed newspaper editors" and prints letters 
from five county superintendents "detailing the character and extent 
of trouble and opposition they had in the appointment of trustees," 
but this was mere politics, directed more at the men in authority 
than at the system, and Dr. Cloud said that after his opponents 
had had "their minds disabused" of "blind prejudice" they became 
"friends and warm supporters of the system" and haded it as "a 
great national benefaction." Wliat opposition there was grew largely 
out of the old ante bellum idea of hostility to "free" or "pauper" 
schools. The leaders of this wing were not friendly to an education 
that was given away, and tliis hostility was intensified by the require- 
ment of the new constitution that the schools should be entirely 
_free and no longer supplemented by private contributions and sub- 
scriptions as had always, been the case in Alabama up to 1868. This 
requirement, indeed, acted as a two-edged sword. By forbidding 
these supplementary contributions it increased the number of those 
opposed to public education, and at the same time made the system 
less able to furnish free instruction. When the Conservatives came 
back into power in 1870, the old idea of supplementing public funds 

' with private subscriptions was revived. 

As for the education of the negroes, there was little opposition to 

' that as such. The old slaveholders believed it to be necessary for 



90 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IlsT ALABAMA. 

the good of society. The Democratic party favored it ; Gen. Clanton, 
the chairman of their executive committee, made speeches support- 
ing it; Gen. John B. Gordon, Hon. J. L. M. Curry, Col. Jefferson 
Falkner and Ex.-Gov. A. B. Moore were all its advocates. The 
Montgomery Advertiser and other papers even urged that destitute 
whites and disabled soldiers be employed as teachers. Confederate 
soldiers and Confederate widows taught negro schools, and the old 
school board of Mobile was organizing negro education in that city 
before the system of reconstruction was born.^ 

The story of the struggle in the city of Mobile between the old 
regime and the new is interesting and higlily dramatic. 

In Mobile, it will be recalled, throughout the whole period after 
1826 a separate school organization had been maintained, free from 
all State trammels. Progress had been made there beyond all other 
sections of the Commonwealth, and the efforts of the reconstruction- 
ists to bring this independent system under State control precipitated 
a struggle that lasted as long as reconstruction itself. The Mobile 
schools had survived the greater part of the war; they had closed 
only with the Federal occupation in April, 1865, and had opened 
again in the fall of that year, but on a more restricted scale and with 
moderate charges for tuition to supplement decreased public funds. 
The receipts for the year 1865-66 were $35,017.16, of which about 
$22,000 was from tuition charges.^ The expenses for the same time 
were $44,191.86. For the year 1866-67 tuition fees were reduced 
one-half, and a movement for the education of colored children 
started as early as May, 1867. Mr. Clark, for the school committee, 
then reported that he had been in communication with the local 
superintendent of the Freedmen's Bureau who expressed gratifica- 
tion at this manifestation of local initiative on the part of the old 
conservative element, and that $12,000 had been provided by the 
bureau for a schoolhouse for colored pupils. The local board also 
sought to work in harmony with the American Missionary Associa- 
tion. For the year ending July 31, 1868, their total receipts, includ- 
ing tuition fees and money borrowed, was $64,835.29, and their 
total disbursements $62,180.86. 

From this account, abbreviated from the History of Education 
in Alabama by WiUis G. Clark, a writer who for this part of the story 
is an original authority, we must conclude that the Mobile schools 
were slowly recovermg from the effects of the war; that their local 
finances were improving; and that they were again headed in the 
direction of a public school system which should be entirely free. 
We note further that under liberal and progressive leadership these 

1 See Fleming: Civil War and Reconstruction in Alabama, pp. 623-C31. 

s An act of Feb. 9, 18G6, allowed Mobile to levy on each 1100 of properly valuation a 5-cent tax for 
suitable houses, libraries, and apparatus. 



RECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 91 

school commissioners, though Conservatives, had voluntarily taken 
up the subject of educating the negro, and were making progress. 
It was into this scheme of harmonious development that the recon- 
structionists broke. 

The reconstruction government had gone into effect July 13, 1868, 
and by an act of August 1 1 the new State board of education declared 
vacant all offices of county superintendents, township trustees, and 
school commissioners. Dr. Cloud, the State superintendent, then 
proceeded to the task of filling these offices with men of his own 
selection, and on August 18 appointed George L. Putnam county 
superintendent of Mobile. The old Mobile board of school commis- 
sioners had been appointed originally under military authority. 
They now proceeded to act on the assumption that the acts of the 
legislature and of the State board of education were illegal, as far as 
they were concerned. Putnam appeared before them demanding 
recognition as county superintendent, but ''not having filed a satis- 
factory bond, as required by law, the board did not inquire further 
into his authority or the legality of his appointment." 

The war was now on between the Mobile school commissioners, 
made up of both Republicans and Conservatives, on the one hand, 
and the board of education, the State superintendent, and the Mobile 
county superintendent on the other. Compromises were proposed 
and rejected. Then recourse was had to the courts, and a mandamus 
was secured ordering the school commissioners to surrender the books 
and property in their possession. This they refused to do, and they 
were held m prison for 48 hours where they were "the recipients of 
innumerable courtesies and attentions from the officers of the jail and 
the citizens of Mobile generally." The supreme court decided in 
their favor; they were released, and the school year of 1868-69 con- 
ducted under their direction showed a white school enrollment of 
2,417 and a negro enrollment of 919. la the first round they had had 
all the advantage. But the State officers were plucky and had other 
weapons in reserve. On June 30, 1869, the State superintendent 
formally suspended the MobUe school commissioners, and on August 
19, 1869, his action was approved by the board of education. They 
had still one other weapon. Under the law as it had existed sub- 
stantially since 1826, Mobile had its own school organization, collected 
its own taxes, and was expressly excepted from being amenable to 
the State authorities except to the extent of drawing its quota of 
State funds and making reports. But the constitution of 1868 had 
given to the State board of education "full legislative powers" in 
reference to the public educational institutions of the State, and on 
November 19, 1869, an act was passed by the board repealing the law 
which gave special immunities and powers to the school commis- 
sioners of Mobile. By this bold stroke the board disarmed its rivals 



92 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

and at once made itself master of the educational situation in the 
State. After the passage of this act the State authorities refused to 
pay over to the Mobile school commissioners the proportion of the 
school moneys due them from the State. The State superintendent, 
though he had vacillated and sought to heal the breach by appointing 
a county superintendent agreeable to the board of school commis- 
sioners, now recognized Putnam as county superintendent and paid 
him considerable sums out of State funds.^ As a last resort the old 
school commissioners sued out an injunction against Putnam and 
sought to prevent him from collecting the money on these State 
warrants. The case came up before the supreme court in June, 1870. 
In a long and elaborate opinion, in which the whole history of the 
Mobile school system is reviewed at great length and the more recent 
educational legislation of the State reviewed and examined, the con- 
tentions of the attorneys for the school commissioners were rejected j 
in to to and the injunction dissolved. After the announcement of 
this opinion, the school commissioners, disheartened and broken, 
defeated at every point, surrendered the school property to Putnam. 
Viewed from this distance and in the cold light of history, it would 
appear that whether the law was good or bad was immaterial; it was 
the law and was clearly on the side of Putnam; for, if words mean 
anything, the old board of school commissioners was clearly removed 
from office by the act of August 11, 1868, and all of their subsequent 
actions were illegal. On the other hand, it is just as clear that, had 
the reconstruction authorities kept hands off in Mobile, the progress of 
education would have been immensely advanced. The new system 
was forced on the people and maintained over them, but it was not 
welcome, and progress was slow. Putnam remained at the head of 
the schools till the spring of 1871. Indeed, it would seem that he 
did not release his claims to be county superintendent till November 
24, 1874, for on that date we find John M. McKleroy, State superin- 
tendent, invoking against him the very weapon he had used against 
the old board, for he was then, with the consent of the board of 
education, formally removed from office as superintendent on the 
ground that he had not fded his bond "as required by law" and that 
the "public welfare" did not demand that "any change should be 
made in the county superintendency." 

1 The matter was thrashed out by the judiciary committee of tlie assembly of 1870 who reported that 
through the " illegal conduct " of Cloud and Putnam the latter had obtained on January 29, 1869, between 
$5,000 and S6,000, and "by far the greater portion thereof was unlawfully applied, if not the whole amount 
thereof was illegally used," in paying certain teachers and employees of the " Blue College " in Mobile which 
was then conducted by the American Missionary Association; that in July, 1869, Putnam secured a warrant 
for over $9,000 which he was restrained by injunction from collecting; that he received $2,000 or more for 
lawyer's fees; that he received $3,600, "a part, if not all of which, was illegally used or applied." They 
found also that unreasonably high salaries had been allowed. They recommended the abandonment of 
special school legislation as soon as possible; the passage of a law forbidding any person from holding more 
than one office in the entire school system; the adoption of a uniform compensation for all county superin- 
tendents and a general reduction in the pay of all officials, for these were partaking "too much of the 
quality of a sponge to the amount of funds raised for school piu-poses." — See Report of Judiciary Committee, 
1870. 



RECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 93 

This action had been made possible by a partial defeat of the 
Repubhcan Party in 1870, when the Conservatives again secured 
control of the State superintendency (Nov. 23, 1870). They then 
began a reorganization of the State board of education and at once 
passed a law (November, 1870) giving Mobile the right of electing 
its own superintendent and school commissioners. In this way, 
says Mr. Clark, the old — 

order was gradually restored and the schools were placed once more in good working 
condition. There was still a board of commissioners, but they had little power under 
the law and, practically, were simply advisers of the superintendent. The board, 
however, was made up of some of the best citizens of Mobile County. 

With the constitution of 1875 Mobile again attained the degree of 
autonomy which she had enjoyed in ante bellum days, since by 
that instrument she was again declared independent of the State 
system except as to drawing her quota of State funds and making 
reports. These privileges were formally recognized in the general 
reorganization act of February 8, 1877.^ 

After this digression into the history of education in Mobile, 
which clearly illustrates the difficulties the system was forced to 
encounter because of pohtics, it is possible to turn again to the 
State system and consider its sources of income. 

These were, besides the income on the old perpetual (paper) 
fund, including also certain fines, licenses, donations, and taxes 
from corporations: 

1. A poll tax on all males 21 to 45 years of age. (Constitution.) 

2. A special county tax of 10 cents on $100. (Revised Code, 
sec. 992.) 

3. An annual donation from the State of S 100,000 under section 
957 of the Revised Code. 

4. One-fifth of ''the aggregate annual revenue of the State." 
(Constitution.) 

But as already seen, these sums were not enough to estabhsh 
successfully a State system of free schools; nor were funds from 
all of these sources immediately available. For the school year 
October 1, 1868, to September 30, 1869, the funds were divided as 
follows : 

Balance due and appropriated as per act of Oct. 10, 1868 $200, 000. 00 

Interest on sixteenth section fund, at 8 per cent 136, 812. 59 

Interest on valueless sixteenth section fund, at 8 per cent 7, 967. 30 

Interest on surplus revenue fund, at 8 per cent 53, 626. 94 

Amount received from retail licenses 26, 514. 85 

Appropriations as per the code, section 957 100, 000. 00 

Total 524, 621. 68 

1 See Cloud's account of this contest in the appendix to the Report of Supt. Pub. Instruction for 1869; 
also in Journal Board of Education, July and August sessions, 1869. The side of the school commissioners 
may be seen in Clark's History of Education in Alabama, Washington, 1889, based on The Board of School 
Commissioners and the Public School System of the City and County of Mobile, 1869. See also 44 Ala. 
Sup. Ct. Reports, case of Mobile School Commissioners v. Putnam et al., and the Report of the Judiciary 
Committee (1870). 



94 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

As was to be expected, the weakness of the system and the inex- 
perience of its administrators were soon manifest. The legislature 
had levied no tax on property and no poU tax for school purposes, 
but depended on the earnings of the perpetual (paper) fund and 
on the $100,000 straight appropriation from the State; the superin- 
tendent's office was slow and did not pubhsh its county apportion- 
ments for the school year 1868-69 till June, 1869. In the meantime 
the county school officers had opened schools and employed teachers 
in utter ignorance of what was coming to them from the State. 
The inevitable followed. Says Supt. Cloud, in reviewing the work 
of the year: 

There are many most excellent and worthy teachers, both gentlemen and ladies, 
in almost every county of the State who have failed to receive full pay for their 
services in the free public schools — some for one month, some for two months, and 
some for even more — from the fact that when the delayed apportionment went out 
to the county superintendents it was found that the amount of teachers' salaries 
for services already rendered was greater than the apportionment to the town- 
ship in which such schools were taught. Then the practice was with the county 
superintendents to scale down the accounts of these teachers, pro rata, to fit the 
apportionment. 

The total expenditures for the year were more than $502,156.19, 
which sum had been disbursed up to the time Dr. Cloud made his 
report. He was negUgent in his statistics; his successor furnishes fig- 
ures for him. Mr. Hodgson, in his special report in 1871. gives the 
number of schools in 1869, as by estimate, 3,225, and the pupils en- 
rolled as 160,000. The amount expended for county administration 
and supervision was $75,173.92, which was chargeable against 
county funds. The superintendent reports 2,902 teachers and nine 
normal schools with 300 prospective teachers who were being trained 
at an annual cost of $12,000. These normal schools seem to have 
been really normal classes in connection with other institutions. 
Tuition fees were paid by the State in return for a promise to teach 
for two years in the pubHc schools. It is evident that they did not 
appeal to the Conservatives: 

It is not known by the superintendent [Hodgson] what progress has been made 
by these pupils, what interest they exhibit in learning, what assurance the depart- 
ment had as to their capacity, intellectually or morally, or whether any of them 
were prepared, during the year 1869, or the year 1870, to assume the duties of teacher, 
or whether any of them actually entered upon such duties. The subsequent aban- 
donment of the schools, it is fair to presume, has resulted in a loss to this department 
of $12,000 for the year 1869 and $25,000 for the year 1870.i It was an unwise policy 
to have established such a number of normal schools at the outset. 

Another accomplishment of the reconstructionists — one in which 
they again came into antagonism with the old decentrahzed, inde- 
pendent system of the earher days when every community was a 

1 The exact cost was $16,582.10. 



KECOFSTEUCTIOlSr IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 95 

law unto itself — was in the adoption of a State system of textbooks. 
The books adopted included Parker and Watson's Readers, Davies's 
Arithmetics^ Monteith's Geographies, Clark's Grammars, Monteith's 
and WiUard's Histories, and others. 

Dr. Fleming, in his Civil War and Reconstruction in Alabama, 
says (p. 623) that this adoption was the work of Dr. Cloud and that 
the texts were "objectionable to the majority of the whites." Dr. 
Fleming adds further: 

This was especially the case with the history books, which the whites complained 
were insulting in their accounts of southern leaders and southern questions. Cloud 
was not the man to allow the southern view of controversial questions to be taught in 
schools under his control. About 1869 he secured a donation of several thousand 
copies of history books which gave the northern views of American history, and 
these he distributed among the teachers and the schools. But most of the literature 
that the whites considered objectionable did not come from Cloud's department, but 
from the bureau and aid society teachers, and was used in the schools for blacks. 
There were several series of "Freedmen's Readers" and "Freedmen's Histories'' 
prepared for use in negro schools. But the fact remains that for 10 or 15 years north- 
ern histories were taught in white schools and had a decided influence on the readers. 
It resulted in the combination often seen in the late southern writer — of northern 
views of history with southern prejudices. 

For the work of the school year 1870, which in reahty covers the 
period from October 1, 1869, to January 1, 1871, we must look not 
to Dr. Cloud, who was in authority till November 23, 1870, but to 
his successor, Col. Hodgson. The white schools were reported as 
1,355 in number and the colored as 490, making only 1,845, as against 
an estimated total of 3,225 for 1869. The white children numbered 
229,139; the negro children, 157,918; total, 387,057. This gave an 
apportionment of .$1.15, as against $1.20 per child for 1869. There 
was apportioned $464,496, but at the end of the year $99,825.27 was 
still undrawn, although "teachere have been clamorous for their pay 
for months." Why this decay in school interests and sharp dechne 
in the number of schools and in payment of teachers ? It is impos- 
sible to assign a more satisfactory reason than that given by Hodgson, 
who says it was due to the "numbers of incompetent men" who 
were appointed "as county superintendents in 1868" and were 
"either ignorant, dilatory, or unmindful of their plain duties." Ho 
points out also that when he came into office $145,783.49 of the regu- 
lar appropriations for schools for 1868-69 and 1869-70 were still to 
be accounted for. 

The assembly which met in November, 1870, being conservative 
in pohtics, appointed a commission "to examine into and report 
upon the affaii-s in the offices of the superintendent of public instruc- 
tion, auditor, and State treasurer." They had no criticisms on the 
last two officers, but of the superintendent of public instruction they 
report that there was "want of any organized system of keeping 



96 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

the books" and that the books then used ''had not been posted dur- 
ing the whole scholastic year." They found erasures in the accounts 
of one county and that in two others certificates had been allowed 
without sufficient proof that schools had been taught. Dr. Cloud 
was charged with paying out money "without due regard to the 
interest of the State," but the committee was impartial enough to 
say he had done this with the consent of the attorney general. 

It appears that the new governor went beyond this nuld criticism, 
for he refers to the report as showing — 

not only an unsatisfactory, but a most shameful and reprehensible state of things. 
The facts set forth by the commissioners are surely a stern condemnation of the man- 
agement of our educational system during the past year.^ 

With the election of 1870, the accession to the superintendency of 
a Conservative, and the subsequent reorganization of the board of 
education, the reconstruction period in education practically comes 
to an end, although another reconstruction superintendent was in 
office in 1872-1874, and the machinery of administration was not 
changed till the adoption of the new constitution in 1875. What 
success did Conservatives have with the reconstruction machinery? 
A review of the next few years will give answer. 

The firet Conservative superintendent was Col. Joseph Hodgson, 
who succeeded to the office November 23, 1870, and served till Sep- 
tember 30, 1872. 

The law of November, 1870, restored a degree of self-government 
to the school organization by providing that in March, 1871, the 
counties should elect a county superintendent of education and two, 
directors and that in April there should be elected in each township 
three trustees. This was a return toward the old order and was of 
service, since it made available the best men in the State. 

Serious efforts were made to inaugurate economy in administrative 
expenses — possibly sometimes at the cost of efficiency; so that when 
compared with 1870 the cost of county superintendents was found to 
have been reduced from $57,776 to $34,259, and their expenses from, 
$21,202 to $4,752. Thus in the matter of school disbursements the 
saving was $39,969.86. And when we consider the total adminis- 
trative cost, we find it reduced from $86,123.82 in 1870 to $44,588.21 
in 1871, or a saving of $41,535.61.2 

Reforms were also urged in the manner of accounting, because it was 
found that $260,556.37 drawn from the treasury since July, 1868, was 
still unaccounted for by vouchers and that $211,217.79 in school war- 
rants was unpaid. 

1 Senate Journal, 1870, pp. 84-89. 

2 See Hodgson's report for 1871. Against this must be set the fact, however, that the school year 1870 
extended from Oct. 1, 1869, to Jan. 1, 1871; the year 1871 from Jan. 1, 1871, to Oct. 1, 1871. 



EECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 97 

In reviewing the school fund due and available, Col. Hodgson 
showed that a total of $124,738.04 for the years 1868-69, 1869-70, 
and 1870-71 had not yet been certified to the local officers by the 
auditor; that $211,217.79 in school warrants was unpaid September 
30, 1871 ; and that the school funds for 1871-72 called for $604,978.50, 
making a total of $940,934.33 then due from the treasury to the 
schools, an amount so large that ''at the present rate of taxation the 
entire revenue of the State will probably not reach this sum." The 
superintendent adds that, as a result of these demands — 

at an early day in our scholastic year the treasury ceased cashing warrants in favor of 
county superintendents, and those officers were forced to raise money as best they 
could upon the State warrants, or to leave a portion of the claims of teachers unpaid. 

As a relief for the teachers the superintendent suggested short-term 
bonds. 

These strictures brought on a sharp clash between the State super- 
intendent and the State auditor over the financial situation, as the 
former charged that the latter had been negligent m making up his 
estimate of educational expenses for the coming year. The latter, in 
his report for 1871, also discussed the situation and had his own ex- 
planation. According to the auditor, in 1871, the main trouble in 
administering the new law lay in the provision which allowed county 
superintendents to draw out of the State treasury in advance at the 
beginning of each quarter or at the beginning of the year all the 
money due the county.^ It was used perhaps in the county by the 
supermtendent or was kept in reserve imtil the end of the quarter, 
when it was paid out to teachers for services during the quarter. In 
this way it was liable to misuse and, if not misused, lay idle for the 
quarter, and so put the treasury to straits. Under the law the county 
superintendent might draw his whole year's apportionment in ad- 
vance. Of this custom the auditor says: 

Sound policy would dictate that no moneys be drawn from the State treasury until 
earned in the various toiAmships, and when drawn by county superintendents, it should 
be for direct transmission to the teachers by whom it was earned. No county superin- 
tendent should be allowed to retain thousands of dollars, belonging to the State for 
the use of schools, for a term of months, especially when the treasury became embar- 
rassed by such action. 

The apportionment for 1871 was $547,773.07, which produced a 
rate of $1.33 J per capita of the school population. This year there 
were enrolled 141,312 pupils, with an average attendance of 107,666, 
more than doubling that of 1870. There were 3,321 schools, in- 
cluding 253 classed as high schools; there were 3,470 teachers; the 
average pay was $42.60 per month, practically the same as in 1870; 
and the length of term was 66.5 days, an increase of 17.5 days over 
1870. The two years, when compared, showed an increase of 17.25 

1 This clause was repealed in January, 1871. 
75075°— 15 7 



98 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

per cent in available funds; 106 per cent in average attendance; and 
35.71 per cent in length of school term. These facts clearly prove that 
the change in administration was highly beneficial to the schools, that 
funds were more carefully and more economically administered, and 
that the people were taking a heartier and more general interest in 
the schools. 

But while there was progress and interest, economy and enthusiasm, 
there were still lions in the way. Perhaps no clearer conception of 
the situation and of its difficulties as a whc>le can be had than may be 
gathered from extracts from county reports: 

The public generally are interested in the schools * * * 50 per cent better than 
last year. The people are very well pleased. — Baker County. 

We have made the public fund auxiliary only, and the patrons are required to pay 
the teacher the principal part of his salary. This we have been obliged to do in order 
to keep the schools in operation long enough to derive sorce benefits from them. — 
Blount County. 

Many of the children have to help their parents make crops, but are at school every 
spare day.^ — Lawrence County. 

The schedule of studies has been changed in a great measure for colored pupils. 
I found pupils in the colored schools studying geography and grammar who could not 
write at all. — Mobile County. 

The people are not satisfied with the present system ; they -wdsh it as it was before the 
war. There is too much reporting and ti'ouble about it, as it is. — Shelby County. 

The attendance at schools is good in these neighborhoods that want and will have 
schools, regardless of the public fund, but in other neighborhoods they attend so long 
as the public fund lasts, and sometimes stop before the fund gives out, for fear they will 
have something to pay. — St. Clair County. 

Many people will not consent to pay anything to continue a school after the public 
fund is exhausted, and the consequence is the neighborhood is without a school, there 
being too few wilUng to pay to make up a school. * * * The colored teachers are 
poorly qualified. * * * Theii- patrons will not buy books and do not feel the 
importance of sending their children regularly to school. * * * In some townships 
the schools have been discontinued during the working season, and taken up again 
when crops are laid by, for those negroes who seem to appreciate education are work- 
ing negroes and require their children to work also. — Talladega County. 

These extracts clearly show that the schools were still bound down 
by political toils; teaching, which under Republican rule was consid- 
ered highly discreditable, under Democratic administration became 
highly meritorious. We see also that many were still turning with 
longing eyes to the old decentralized type of school, but the extract 
from Lawrence perhaps gives the true key to the situation — the chil- 
dren were '' at school every spare day" — education was as yet either 
an ornament or a luxury; it was not yet a necessity. 

The superintendent points out another weakness of the State sys- 
tem as then administered, and shows that Alabama as a State was 
then — 

attempting to do more for pubUc instruction than her means will justify and more 
in proportion to her population and resources than any of the older and more pop- 
ulous States of the North. 



RECOKSTEUCTIOlSr IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 99 

This was clearly because the State did all. The superintendent 
sought to correct the abuse by a more stringent collection of poll tax 
and suggested a "resort, if the people vote to do so, to local taxa- 
tion by vote of taxpayers in each school district, as is done in other 
States." He urged that the pay of county school officers be shifted 
from State to county funds and that "each county shall provide for 
its public schools a sum equal to one-fourth or one-half of the State 
appropriation." It is evident that the superintendent dimly realized 
that one of the defects of the public-school system in Alabama was 
that the local units depended on the State for nearly or quite every- 
thing. Local initiative was entirely wanting, and the schools lan- 
guished because they had not yet learned the lesson of self help — a 
situation wliich "forward-looking men" in Alabama have not even 
yet been able to remove. 

So far had the doctrine of centralization taken root in the Demo- 
cratic State of Alabama in 1871 that even the few local taxes levied 
under the permissive law had to pass through the hopper of State 
machinery before they could be used by the county levying them. 
They were collected and forwarded to the State treasmy, then at con- 
siderable expense and trouble they were returned to the county where 
they originated. With the poll tax it was worse still, for this was 
not only sent to the State treasiu^y, but was then prorated — an en- 
couragement to both ambitious and indifferent counties to do less and 
less. Against these conditions both auditor and superintendent pro- 
tested, and urged the repeal of laws so destructive to local initiative. 

Another trouble which confronted the schools was the imperfection 
of the law; salaries were at the caprice of trustees, and when earned 
could not be promptly paid, even if the cash was in the treasury. 
Under the law as originally passed by the board of education the 
county superintendent might draw the whole of his apportionment 
during the first quarter, but this worked hardship with the treasury. 
This was complained against and was repealed by the assembly in 
January, 1871.^ Then it was provided that the apportionment 
should be drawn only quarterly, and the following situation resulted: 
A teacher began his school, say, in January and finished in March; 
he could then draw only one-quarter of his salary, but for the re- 
mainder "must wait until the second, third, and fourth quarter roll 
around before he can be paid in full."^ Against this situation the 
superintendent entered a vigorous protest, and it was remedied by 
act of December 14, 1871. 

The State superintendent could, however, report progress. There 
was organized a State teachers' association; there were satisfactory 
teachers' institutes; the establishment of normal schools was recom- 
mended, and eight were provided for, four for each race; private 

1 See report, 1871, p. 16. - 2 Report, 1871, p. 22. 



100 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

assistance was again coming to the aid of the schools, and in this way 
the term was being lengthened; the schools were beginning to make 
an impression on the people; the improved laws and 'Hhe election 
of comity superintendents of capacity and energy" were having the 
desired effects. 

Because of a change in the school year the official year 1871 em- 
braced only the nine months between January 1 and October 1. 
The year 1871-72 extended from October 1, 1871, to September 30, 
1872, and at its end Col. Hodgson retired. We have seen that the 
first year of his work was devoted mainly to straightening out the 
financial tangles into which the school fimds had fallen, from lack 
of care on the part of officers and of cash in the treasury. With the 
opening of his second year there was improvement, yet there re- 
mained two or three depressing elements in school life of which the 
superintendent speaks : 

From unofficial reports of county superintendents I am informed that large amounts 
of "warrants remain in their hands unpaid. It has been impossible, therefore, for 
county superintendents to balance their accounts with this office. * * * Much 
complaint is made by teachers of public schools that the treasurer is not able to pay 
their claims promptly. * * * I would urge upon the general assembly * * * 
to order a sale of sufficient State bonds to liquidate every cent of the indebtedness 
to her public schools. I would urge that the proceeds from the sale of these bonds 
be kept apart in the treasury from all other moneys and be held inviolably for edu- 
cational purposes. I would urge, furthermore, that when the State shall have paid 
up all school dues to the end of the present fiscal year the school revenue for every 
year thereafter shall be kept separate and distinct from all other funds, and, as the 
constitution commands, "shall be inviolably appropriated to educational purposes 
and no other purposes whatever. ' ' This section of the constitution has never yet been 
put into effect by law. * * * The abolition of the board of education and the 
return of all legislative power respecting education to the hands of the general assem- 
bly would remove many difficulties which now embarrass the department, and would, 
in my opinion, meet the cordial approval of the intelligent people of the State. I 
am informed that but one State in the Union has ever had such an educational board 
as is provided for by our constitution. 

As far as figures and numbers go, however, there was no reason 
for dissatisfaction with the year 1871-72. The school income was 
$607,060.97; the apportionment $553,067.65, or $1.36 per school 
capita, as against $1.33 in 1871, with $12,000 for normal schools. 
The school population was 403,735; the total enrollment 103,615, 
and the average attendance 81,157, with 22 counties not heard from, 
as against 141,312 and 107,666, respectively, for 1871. The salary 
of white teachers in 42 comities and in the city of Mobile was $38, 
and the length of term 72 days. For colored teachers in the same 
territory it was $40 and 71 days. 

During these years educational legislation was left practically in 
the hands of the board of education by the legislature. The board 
was not slow to exercise its legislative functions; besides much 



EECONSTEUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 101 

routine legislation looking to the relief of individuals, there were acts 
fixing the salary of teachers, the limit being $60 per month, and 
requiiing the township trustees to see that the school fimds were so 
supplemented as to bring the term to five months; foiu" nonnal 
schools for wliite teachers, with $4,500 available funds, and four for 
colored teachers, with $4,750, were provided. A normal school for 
white female teachers and a ''central normal school" at the uni- 
versity were also provided, but the first and third of these acts were 
repealed by the legislature in February, 1872. 

III. SCHOOL LEGISLATION IN 1872, 1873, AND 1875. 

The successor of Col. Hodgson was Col. Joseph H. Speed (1872- 
1874), The poHtical pendulum had again favored the Republicans, 
and Col, Speed sought to make party capital by using the arguments 
of his Democratic opponents. He urged "that reform, retrench- 
ment, economy" be ''severely and rigidly enforced." He reviewed 
the educational experiences of the past: 

Every dollar of the public-scliool fund and the university fund given the State by 
the General Government has either been squandered or lost. Let us satisfy our tax- 
burdened people that every cent of their money shall be honestly, judiciously, and 
economically expended, and that all disbiu-sing school oflBcers shall be held to the 
severest account. * * * It has been represented * * * that many county 
superintendents of education are in default, * * * Those who have been un- 
faithful and dishonest (if such there be) in applying and using the money raised for 
the education of the poor children of our State should not go unpunished. 

It was imperatively necessary, first of all, that the system get back 
to a business basis, and soon after Col. Speed's accession to office the 
board of education entered upon legislative activities which were far- 
reacliing in their effect. These acts included the introduction of 
certain textboolvs into the system, but teachers were at fiber ty to 
refuse to use any books which had not been adopted by the board ; 
county superintendents were required to have an office at the county 
seat; city systems separate and distinct from other parts of the 
county school system were maugurated for Sehna, Opefika, Eufaula, 
and Birmingham; and a normal school for white male teachers was 
estabfished at Florence. 

The most important of these acts, however, grew out of the des- 
perate financial straits to which the schools had now been reduced. 
There had been more schools and more teaching than the State could 
pay for, and to prevent a bad situation from becoming still worse 
the board passed an act on December 14, 1872, which ordered that 
after January 1, 1873, school officers — 

shall cause to be closed all the free public schools in their respective townships and 
counties, and shall employ no teacher in any public school in this State until said 
trustees shall be informed by the superintendent of public instruction that funds 
have been provided for the prompt payment of teachers. 



102 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

This act was the most important. part of the school legislation for 
the year. It was drastic and yet necessary to bring the schools 
back to a cash basis, for at the end of the year on September 30, 

1872, there was due the school fund and still unpaid the sum of 
$317,575.35, and this amoimt was steadily increasing. This situa- 
tion had been brought about by two causes. The custom had 
arisen in the days just after the war of borrowing the school funds to 
meet what seemed to be more pressing needs, and this misapplica- 
tion of funds had not yet ceased. In the second place, there had 
arisen under the stress of public poverty the custom of issuing State 
warrants or certificates in anticipation of taxes. These warrants 
were made receivable for taxes and as such circulated as a sort 
of bastard currency and at more or less discount. In 1871-72 
waiTants amountiag to neai'ly as much as a year's taxes were issued. 
They came back to the treasury the next year in payment of taxes, 
and the school administration faced the dilemma of either new 
warrants or bankruptcy. It was to meet this situation that the 
law of December 14, 1872, was passed, and as a result there were 
practically no public schools in Alabama January 1 to October 1, 

1873, except such as were supported by local funds. The schools 
were thus the first to feel the effects of these financial troubles, and 
the principal work of the superintendent during that summer was to 
explain to his correspondents, to school officers and others, why 
there could be no public schools 

The assembly, in order to stop the misapplication of school funds 
and to reestablish the schools, passed an act April 19, 1873, of far- 
reaching significance for the schools. This act required the county 
tax collector to pay the poll tax to the county treasurer, instead of 
the State treasm'er. It required further that by December 10 of 
each year the State superintendent should announce the apportion- 
ment due each county, exclusive of poll tax and special tax, if any, 
and that 90 per cent of this sum should be paid by the county tax 
collector directly to the county treasurer. In this way the greater 
part of the school money was held in the county. The remaining 10 
per cent was held in the State treasury for the benefit of the counties.^ 

Four days later (April 23), as if having ceased to hope for help 
at home, the assembly appointed a joint committee to memorialize 
Congress in behalf of the public schools. They were to ask for 
3,000,000 acres of the public land stiU lying idle in the State and to 
pledge the faith of the State for the safe administration of the fund, 
the prmcipal to be inviolate, the income only to be used. Nothing 
seems to have come out of this memorial. 

It is evident that the radical changes inaugurated by the laws of 
December 14, 1872, and April 19, 1873, would upset entirely the 

1 Laws of 1872-73, p. 6. 



RECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 103 

school interests for the year 1872-73. There was set aside this year 
for school purposes the sum of S524, 452.40, and there was issued in 
warrants during the first quarter $68,313.93, but— 

even for the limited extent to which, schools have been taught during the last year, 
the treasury has not been in such condition as to enable teachers to draw the small 
amounts of money due them. The best that could be done was to have treasury 
warrants drawn in such way as would be most advantageous to these worthy claimants. 

The office of education issued certificates upon which school war- 
rants were drawn by the auditor. These were made payable to the 
county superintendent, who indorsed them and paid them oub to 
such teachers as would receive them. Their acceptance was not 
legally compulsory, but was economically so, for it was this or nothing, 
and since the warrants could not be paid by the State, the teachers 
were forced to discount them at usurious rates. The effect of this 
upon the morale of the teachers can be easily seen. 

To increase the value of the warrants the superintendent suggested 
that they be made to bear interest. In his official correspondence he 
emphatically denies that he had been a party to the custom of pass- 
ing over the claims of teachers in favor of other creditors and in 
his pubhshed report says of the teachers : 

There is no class of State creditors more meritorious than the teachers of public 
schools; no claims against the State can be urged with stronger force than theirs. 
Indeed, there are many patent reasons why their dues should be entitled to prece- 
dence in payment, so long as the State is compelled to discriminate even temporarily 
between her creditors. The large amount due the schools, as above shown, has accu- 
mulated because the exigencies of the State have been such as to compel the use of 
the money to meet other demands. 

In another part of his report (1873), he says: 

The financial depression experienced by all branches of the State Government for 
the last year has been specially embarrassing to the public school system. * * * 
To those at a distance * * * it is proper to observe that the difficulties are in no 
respect attributable to any act, either of commission or omission, on the part of the 
officials intrusted with the duty of administering the affairs of the State Government 
for the period mentioned. 

It is clearly evident, moreover, that the board of education felt 
matters had now come to a standstill. They evidently doubted the 
sufficiency of the act of April 19, 1873, and in a memorial dated 
November 25, 1873, put the matter squarely before the assembly. 
They say: 

The want of money has crippled the educational department and led to the sus- 
pension of the free public schools throughout the State. This unfortunate condition 
has not resulted from unwise legislation on the part of the board of education, nor 
from incompetency or unfaithfulness in our school officials, but is chiefly due to the 
fact that no act has been passed to enforce section 10, article 11, of the constitution of 
the State of Alabama, which provides that certain revenue and other school funds 
therein named ' 'shall be inviolably appropriated to educational purposes and to no 
other purpose whatever." 



104 



PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 



Since the organization of the present school system in 1868 this provision of the con- 
stitution has been disregarded by each successive legislature. Your honorable bodies 
have been the first to carry it partially into effect. [By law of Apr. 19, 1873.] 

Each year an increasing percentage of the school fund has been diverted from its 
legitimate use to the defraying of the general expenses of the State, which compelled 
the board of education to close the schools for the want of money to pay teachers and 
officers. 

The contention of the board was shown by the following figures 
given by them of sums apportioned, sums actually paid out for the 
schools, sums due but not paid to the schools at the end of the year, 
and the total sums still due.^ 

Appropriations and expenditures for public schools, 1869-1874. 



Years. 


Apportion- 
ment for 
year. 


Received for 

school 

purposes. 


Balance due 

schools at 

end of year. 


Total amount 
due. 


1869-70 


$500,407.18 
581,389.29 
604,978.50 
522,810.00 
474,346.52 


$306,872.99 

320, 480. 97 

166,303.29 

68,313.93 


8193, 724. 19 
260,908.32 
438,675.21 
454, 496. 17 


$187,872.49 
280,515.50 
417,165.40 


1870-71 

1871-72 


1872-73 


786, 165. 40 
1 1,260,511.92 


1873 74. . . . 











1 Due Nov. 25, 1873. 

The board felt under the necessity of defending itself for closing 
the schools by act of December 14, 1872. There was choice only 
between closing the schools and issuing more school warrants. The 
issue of more warrants would have depreciated still further the value 
of those already issued and seriously embarrassed the State. 

They continued: 

Your memorialists would impress upon your honorable bodies that the State is 
more than two years in arrears to this school fund. The board of education is power- 
less to remedy the condition of the school finances. * * * Your memorialists would 
repeat that the present condition of the educational department is not the result of un- 
wise legislation * * * nor of unfaithfulness or inefficiency of school officials, nor 
of the expensiveness of the administration of the school laws. There has not been a 
dollar, of which they are aware, lost by the default of any school officer since January 
1, 1871. * * * This is as economical an administration of the educational depart- 
ment as can be found in any State. It seems hardly practicable to reduce expenses 
any further. No system probably can be devised which will pay teachers more than 
94 per cent of the fund. The present school system will do this, and would have done 
it at any time during the past four years had the legislature provided for the prompt 
payment of the school money. It is for your honorable bodies to determine what 
relief you can afford. 

For its part the legislature of 1873-74, to whom this memorial was 
addressed, seems to have done nothing beyond making a special 
appropriation of $170,688.85, ''which is the amount of interest accru- 
ing on the sixteenth section funds," for as Col. Speed was continually 
pointing out to his correspondents during the summer of 1873, the 

1 It will be noted that the treasurer's reports for these years show "larger amounts than here given dis- 
bursed for educational purposes; but the excess was used in paying indebtedness for previous years." 



EECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 105 

suspension of the schools did not affect the income of the permanent 
school fmid: "It is not suspended, but goes on accumulating without 
any reference to any interruption m the State's finances." It does 
not appear, however, that this appropriation was paid. State bonds 
could no longer be sold, and the sole dependence was on taxes. The 
act of December 17, 1873, forbidding tax collectors and aU others 
engaged in collecting revenue from trading in any way in State 
warrants, State certificates, or other State securities is a sufficient 
indication of one difficulty which the school system had to face. 

Col. Speed's statistics for 1873-74 are exceedingly scanty. In his 
report of November 10, 1873, he estimated that the poU tax to be 
retained in the counties amounted to $80,486.11, while the 90 per 
cent certified to the counties under the law of April 19, 1873, amounted 
to $352,673.92, making a total of $433,160.53 which the counties 
might count on as cash, since it was a first lien on the taxes of each 
county; but, as this was the first year of the law, its practical work- 
ing proved — 

very unsatisfactory and embarrassing. It proved hard to make the county superin- 
tendents understand how the 90 per cent was drawn and still more difficult to have 
them conform to the conditions which the new system imposed. 

In some counties the 90 per cent certified was more than was col- 
lectable, and the superintendent still felt it necessary to ui-ge that — 

some plan may be matured and adopted by which our public school system will realize 
the benefits of the money that has become due to it by the regular laws of the State. 
* * * An experience of two years * * * has shown me more and more forci- 
bly the almost absolute necessity of some fixed, known, and available dependence 
for the support of schools and teachers. Our schools need more energy * * *. Yet 
there is no more difficult task * * * than to break up the humdrum, listless, life- 
less performance of school duties, which ine\itably attends upon long delayed, incom- 
plete, or uncertain pajonent of the teachers. 

According to Col. Speed's report of September 30, 1874, the 
total available funds for the year 1873-74, exclusive of poll and 
special taxes, were $405,080.42; the total expenditure, $404,301.14. 
We have no way of explaining the difference between the figures 
given in this report and those of the earlier one. There were reported 
233,333 white and 172,506 negro school children. There are no sta- 
tistics of enrollment, attendance, schools, or teachei-s. It looks as if 
Fleming's sweeping charge (p. 633) was literally true: 

Practically all of the negi'o schools and many of the white ones were forced to close 
and the teachers, when paid at all by the State, were paid in depreciated State obli- 
gations. 

This administration did not close without an official investigation 
"into the irregularities alleged." The committer made its report 
December 15, 1873, and showed up certain blameworthy shortcom- 
ings. The gist of its conclusion was that there was in the depart- 



106 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA; 

ment "such a want of system in its general management as must 
necessarily keep it involved in inextricable confusion." ^ 

Since with Col. Speed's administration reconstruction in the 
schools comes to an end, we may quote here the words of Leroy F. 
Box, later State supermtendent, as to why the reconsti-uction system 
was '^ unpopular and therefore unsatisfactory." He says: 

Among these [causes] may be mentioned unwise legislation * * *. But it is 
probably true that the chief cause of the unpopularity of the system through all these 
years may be found in the fact that upon its reorganization after the war, our people 
were led to expect too much from it. Men whose interests were not identified with 
the people of Alabama * * * held out to our people the alluring but false hope 
that Alabama had at her command and disposal a magnificent school fund — a fund 
sufficient not only to maintain the schools annually throughout the entire year, but 
to build and equip schoolhouses and even to furnish lights and fuel for use in the 
schools. So rigid was the construction placed by these men upon the provisions of 
the State constitution of 1868 relating to the public school system, that it was held to 
be unlawful for parents or guardians of children attending the public schools to sup- 
plement the township funds. And * * * our people, stricken down as they were 
* * * listened for a time to the song of the siren. 

With the awakening came a revulsion of feehng that home rule 
could not immediately dissipate. 

Hon. John M. McKleroy, who succeeded Col. Speed in 1874 and 
served till 1876, shows a clear understanding and a sure grasp of his 
subject. Had he remamed at the head of the schools, he might have 
developed into an educational statesman. During his administration 
the constitution of 1868 was superseded by that adopted in 1875, 
which more clearly represented the thoughts and feelings, the hopes 
and aspirations, of the people then in power in the State. 

It is evident that for the year 1874-75 there was marked improve- 
ment. Says the superintendent : 

In all the counties, and in nearly every school district in the State, one or more 
schools have been in operation, and there are but few districts where schools for each 
race have not existed * * *. It is * * * believed that every person in the 
State, within the school age, has had the opportunity and privilege of attending the 
free public schools during the last scholastic year. 

The enrollment for the year was 145,797 out of 406,270 children 
between 5 and 21, and while the enrollment was only 36 per cent of 
the school population we must recall that this was nearly 40,000 more 
than in any previous year. The school term for whites reached 90 
days, at a cost of $3.09 for the term per pupil; for the negroes the 
term was 83 days, at a cost of $3.79 per pupil. 

Says the superintendent: ? 

It will be readily observed that the tuition of these pupils in private schools would 
have been about seven times more than it has been under our free school system 
* * *. It is also the fact that our schools have been kept in operation during the 
past year much longer than during any previous year since the constitution of 1868 
has been in force. 

I See Senate Journal, Nov. sess., 1873, pp. 245-252. 



EECONSTKUCTIOISr IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 107 

These improvements were attributed to (1) the adequate school 
fund for the year; (2) the availabihty of the fund when needed; (3) 
the wise laws for regulating the schools and disbursing the fund made 
by the board of education; (4) the efficiency of a majority of the 
county supermtendents. 

The school fund for 1874-75 was $565,042.94, including $73,555.30 
of poll tax levied, collected, and retained in the comities. There was 
disbursed in all during the year $562,437.50, including the poll tax 
mentioned above and the $10,000 appropriated to normal schools. 

In writing of the school fund as ''adequate," the superintendent 
emphasizes the fact that it was adequate only — 

to accomplish the great good which the reports show has been wrought by means of 
the schools. And it is proper to state that this result even has not been attained 
with the money appropriated by the State alone, for it will appear further on that 
the patrons of the schools have, in many instances, supplemented the public funds. 

* * * There are in the State 1,696 school districts. * * * In each of these 
districts there must be at least one school for each race, and in many of them more 
than one school for each race is required to accommodate all the children. * * * 
The whole fund of last year was only $1.39 per capita of the school population, and only 
$3,875 per capita of those enrolled in the schools. * * * The fund for the past 
year has been almost the same as the average appropriations for the preceding years 
since 1868; and if more has been accomplished with it than heretofore, it is due 
to the last three causes mentioned above. The principal of these is that money 
has been available when needed. I doubt not that the chief embarrassments of 
former administrations have been owing to the fact that when the schools were 
taught, and the money became due to the teachers, it could not be had. Pre- 
vious to the enactment of the law of April 19, 1873, by the general assembly, "To keep 
in each county in this State a proportionate share of the public school money," all the 
revenues of the State were paid into the State treasury by the collectors, and the money 
appropriated by the constitution and laws for educational piu^oses was not set apart 
and devoted to such purposes, but was used indiscriminately for any and all State 
expenditures. The consequence was that in almost every instance the money was 
not in the treasury when wanted, and poorly paid teachers had to accept warrants 
on the treasury, or nothing, for their services. They were then compelled to sell 
these warrants to speculators at ruinous discounts to procure the ordinary necessaries 
of life. Is it surprising that under such circumstances the school system should have 
been decried, and the administration of it should have been regarded with disfavor? 
No wonder that the people were ready to believe that a school system which seem- 
ingly absorbed so much of the State revenue and from which so little benefit was 
derived was worthless. No wonder that they began to contemplate seriously the pro- 
priety of an entire abolition of the system. * * * The passage of the act of 
April 19, 1873, was the beginning of a most salutary change to the school system. 

* * * thus the [school] fund was exempted from the habitual misapplication.^ 

The law of April 19, 1873, was revised and amended by act of March 
19, 1875, so that aU poU and special taxes remained in the county 
where levied and collected; the State superintendent made the appor- 
tionment oh October 10, instead of December 10, and the 90 per cent 
was now paid to the county superintendent, who became custodian 

1 Report, 1874-75, pp. 6-11. 



108 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATTOlSr IN ALABAMA. 

of the county school fund, instead of the county treasurer. Thft 
remainder of the fund due the coimty was apportioned January 1, 
and was set aside by the State treasurer for the use of the county 
schools only. 

Moving forward the dates of apportionment seemed to help the 
county tax collector in making payment and the county superintend- 
ent in apportioning funds to the districts. It helped forward also 
decentralization ; the whole of the poll and special tax and 90 per cent 
of the general apportionment now became a purely county fund and 
so was "exempted from the habitual misappUcation/' by either 
State or county treasurer, for it sometimes happened when the latter 
was custodian of the school funds ''that the warrants of the county 
superintendents to teachers were not promptly paid on presentation 
as they should have been." 

This new arrangement went back to the law of 1856, which had 
been in force till after the organization of the schools in 1868. As a 
further amendment of the law the superintendent strongly urged 
that the whole sum apportioned to the county be certified and not 
90 per cent, for — 

the whole amount of the school fund is known before the apportionment is made, 
and the exact amount which each county will be entitled to is known as soon as the 
apportionment is made. 

The superintendent wrote encouragingly of the influence and effects 
of the laws of the board — 

regulating the schools and the disbursement of the funds.' The principal improve- 
ments are those which restrain trustees from making contracts for or opening schools 
until after they have received notice of the amount to which their township, and each 
race therein, will be entitled for the year, prohibiting the establishment of more than 
one school for each $100 apportioned to the particular race in the township, unless 
the fund is supplemented by the patrons so as to provide at least $100 for each school; 
compelling all schools to which as much as $100 is appropriated to be kept in operation 
for at least 20 weeks. 

Schools wliich had less than $100 were to last 12 weeKs, and teachers 
were to be paid monthly imder penalty. 
The superintendent says : 

This provision has caused many patrons who desired to have schools in their imme- 
diate neighborhoods to supplement the public fund, and thus to multiply the schools. 
In fact in almost every county in the State, the fund for white schools has been, to 
some extent, supplemented by the patrons. * * * This compulsory term of 
five months has also prevented the public schools from being degraded into mere 
summer schools, taught in the vacation season of private schools, and with a view 
principally to absorb the public fund, and avoid the competition with those schools. 
* * * Even now, in some of our cities the graded public schools are considered the 
best therein; and those cities where such schools have been in operation for some 
years, I am satisfied, could not be induced to abolish them, even if they should be 
compelled to sustain them solely by municipal taxation. 

1 See board of education law of Dec. 10, 1874. 



KECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 109 

But Supt. McKleroy was not without his troubles, and the line of 
attack was the same as in earlier days — the county superintendency. 
The reason was also the hoary one which had done service in ante 
bellum days — economy in administration. This reason has done 
service in States other than Alabama; and the arguments used to 
meet the attack are the same as those of other days, abundantly 
reinforced by citations from the experience and arguments of earlier 
superintendents, from the days of Perry to those of Speed. Against 
the investment of money in the public schools themselves there was 
no outcry, but the idea seems to have been that the system should 
have been self-executing, and that little or nothing should have been 
expended for the administration of the law. Even the poor salary 
of the clerk in the office of the State superintendent and that of the 
superintendent himself were seemingly begrudged, while all sorts of 
schemes were proposed by which the work of the county super- 
intendents might be performed without cost to the State. It is 
strange that people who were accustomed to pay for superintendence 
in business affairs were so slow to place education on as high a plane. 
One argument against county superintendents was that they were 
incompetent. To this the superintendent replied: 

A prime difficulty in securing competent county superintendents in all the counties 
arises from tlie fact that the compensation of these offices, as now fixed by law, is so 
small. It is not enough to enable them to devote thsir whole time and attention to 
the office, and they must therefore, from necessity, pursue other vocations as well. 

The average salary of county superintendents in 1874-75 was only 
$436.96 and the total amount expended during the year for this work 
was $30,587.28. Individual salaries had ranged in 1870 from $2,000 
per year in Dallas, Mobile, and Montgomery, down to $437.50 in 
Covington. In 1871, after the Conservatives came into power, these 
salaries were revised downward and varied from $1,674.21 in Mobile 
to $300 in Baldwin and seven other counties. In 1874-'75 the highest 
superintendent's salary was $2,810.75, in Mobile; the lowest, $300. 

There were three normal schools in successful operation for the 
year, one for white teachers and two for colored. They were each 
well attended and were doing good work. 

The apportioned fund for the year was $549,814.09 ; the school pop- 
ulation was 406,270; the enrollment, 145,797; the average length of 
the term was 86 days; the number of teachers, 3,961; the average 
pay per month was $27.20 and the average cost per pupil per month 
was 83 cents. 

It would appear then that during the year 1874-75 the schools 
were fast getting on their feet again; they were finding themselves 
in a financial sense, and this was helping them rapidly forward. 

In January and March, 1875, the general assembly had felt it 
necessary to provide against embezzlement of school funds and to 



110 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

require, under severe penalty, that tax collectors pay to the county 
superintendent ' ' the identical money, currency, or obligation received 
by them for taxes from the taxpayers." The purpose of these acts 
was plainly to prevent thrifty and unscrupulous collectors from pay- 
ing over to the school funds bad money in place of the good money 
received by them. Under this law it was no longer possible for 
collectors to speculate to the disadvantage of the teacher. 

Another law jjassed March 8, 1875, was not so favorable. This 
revised the code and cut the rate of interest on the sixteenth section 
funds from 8 per cent to 4 per cent, while that on the surplus revenue 
was not mentioned. The result was that, while the school had 
received more than $200,000 from these three sources in 1874-75, 
they would receive in 1875-76 only $73,663.35.^ It was explained 
that since the State under the constitution was already giving one- 
fifth of her income to the schools, the old rate of interest made it" 
undertake more than it could well perform. This was blow number 
one. 

Blow number two was still more severe. The new constitution 
was adopted on December 6, 1875, two months after the beginning 
of the school year, and after the regular fall apportionment had been 
made to the counties. This new constitution abandoned the one- 
fifth requirement for the schools, and, under the interpretation of the 
attorney general and against the protest of the State superintendent, 
this was declared retroactive for the year 1875-76. 

In this way the act of March 8 and the new constitution gave a 
heavy setback to the schools. In 1874-75 their income had been 
$565,042.94. In 1875-76 it was only $351,496.64, made up as 
follows : 

From sixteenth section funds, at 4 per cent $69, 779. 70 

From valueless sixteenth section funds, at 4 per cent 3, 883. 65 

From surplus revenue funds, at 4 per cent 26, 763. 47 

From special appropriation under the new constitution 150, 000. 00 

From poll tax 96, 414. 39 

From miscellanies, balance, etc 4, 655. 43 

Total 351, 496. 64 

Of this sum there was apportioned to the schools $337,276.33; 
$8,000 went to the normal schools, while $6,150, including the expenses 
of the superintendent's office, went for miscellanies. 

The reports for the year were very imperfect; only 51 counties 
were heard from. In these 51 counties there were 3,088 schools 
in 1875-76, as against 3,211 for the previous year; there were 104,414 
children enrolled, as against 118,252; and the length of the school 
term was 80 days as against 86 days. Further than this, there was 

1 See report 1874-75, p. 41. The law of Mar. 8, 1875, provides no interest on the Surplus Revenue fund 
of 1836, but this was restored by the constitution of the same year. 



RECONSTRUCTIOlSr IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. Ill 

long delay in securing the SI 50,000 direct appropriation provided 
under the new constitution, and some of the schools were not started 
till the spring; but notwithstanding all of these disadvantages the 
gratifying fact developed that — 

the result of the last year's operations, as compared with those of the previous year, 
are not proportionate to the diminution of the fund * * * the system during the 
past year has been even more useful and beneficial to the State than could reasonably 
have been anticipated in view of the decreased school fund and the late period in 
the year before it became available and the schools could be opened. 

To the delay in opening the schools was charged the falling off in 
enrollment, but tliis in turn — 

at least prevented the origination and accumulation of claims against the school 
fund which in former years so disaffected and discouraged teachers and made the 
system unpopular generally. 

The superintendent urged a closer collection of poll tax and that 
each school district be required to levy and collect ''a special tax, 
within proper maximum and minimum limits, for the maintenance 
of its own schools. " The matter of the county superintendents was 
still an open one. The term of office of all was terminated by law 
on the first Monday in August, 1876; then the salaries were reduced 
and the term of office extended to January 1, 1877. 

The injurious effects of these enactments are already perceptible. Hardly any 
teachers' institutes or conventions have been organized or held during the year, 
and the county superintendents, by reason of their inadequate compensation and 
uncertain tenure of office, have almost invariably suspended visitation of the schools. 
Several * * * have resigned, and others have only been induced to hold on to 
await the action of the general assembly on the subject. 

A fairly accurate picture of the schools in 1874-75 may be secured 
from the reports of the county superintendents. From these it is 
evident that they were gaining in popularity and were strengthening 
their hold on popular favor, but it was still thought that too much 
of the public money was going for superintendence and administra- 
tion — a feeling which came near being disastrous in 1876. School- 
houses were still very inferior; most of them were private property, 
with little or no furniture. The public was either unwilling or unable 
to build houses, and instead borrowed the use of churches, discarded 
log houses, or school buildings erected by private enterprise. In 
some sections attendance was still poor, due to indifference rather 
than hostility, and among the negroes to frequent changes of resi- 
dence. The county schools were numerous, and frequently had 
fewer pupils than they could accommodate, because of local jealousies 
and the desire of every man to have a school at his own door. The 
same spirit prompted trustees to start rural schools within walking 
distance of each other and to use each a few months rather than 
consolidate and run one for double the time. The principle of 



112 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

social solidarity had not developed; each commimity was sufficient 
in itself and generally a law unto itself; few were -wdllmg to increase 
the length of term by a levy of taxes or by voluntary subscriptions. 

But notwithstanding all these adverse conditions the schools 
were gaining in strength and influence. The people of Alabama 
had never been opposed to the system per se. In ante bellum 
days they may have been indifferent, but this feeling was melting 
before the rays of Ivnowledge. They opposed those who took over 
the system in 1868, but when they again secured control of the State 
government they did not overthrow the work of the former regime; 
they did, however, change the direction of its energies; they extended 
its scope, welcomed it as an ally, and sent their best citizens even 
into the negro schools, which a few years earlier would have meant 
social ostracism.^ They were still troubled with the debts created in 
earlier years, by a depreciated State currency, and by a lack of cash. 
Teachers still had to discount their warrants, in some cases as much 
as 50 per cent, but the finances of the State rapidly improved under 
the administration of the Conservatives, and not only did they in- 
crease enrollment, attendance, length of school term, and number 
of teachers, but in 1875 they had established one normal school for 
whites with an income of $5,000 and two for negroes with the same 
income. 

A just estimate of the work of the people of the State for the 
years between November, 1870, and December, 1875, compels the 
fair-minded critic to say that while the amount devoted to educa- 
tion was small, it was perhaps as much as the people could be ex- 
pected to give. It should be remembered also that progress in 
education can never come from the fiat of a man at the top, but 
must be an evolution that carries the people with it. 

The schools of Alabama were never out of the hands of natives 
as completely as were those of some other Southern States. The 
constitution of 1868 introduced some foreign elements and ideas, 
but every change tended back toward the ante bellum norm, and it 
seems correct to say that the Alabama system of public education 
has grown out of the actual experiences of the people of the State. 

The administration of Supt. McKleroy may be characterized as a 
period of intense shock; had not the schools been in the hands of 
some of the best people, they would hardly have stood the strain. As 
it was, the superintendent was able to hold the schools steady. No 
progress could be expected in the face of such loss of income as the 
schools suffered in 1875, but there was much less loss of prestige than 
might have been expected, and as a result, after the force of the finan- 
cial loss was spent, after the political problems of reconstruction were 

1 Superintendent's report, 1874-75, p. 105. 



RECONSTRUCTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 113 

settled, after the schools had been again able to find themselves, 

they were ready to enter upon an imtrammeled course of development. 

Supt. McKleroy, in his final report, dated November 9, 1876, 

summarizing the situation for the two years of his administration, 

says: 

In that period great advancement and improvement has been made. The principle 
of the power and propriety of a State to maintain a system of free public education 
has been affirmed in unmistakable terms by the people of this State, and they have 
implanted it in the constitution made by themselves, and in the same instrument 
they have made liberal provisions for its support, thus guaranteeing its permanency 
and usefulness. 

And this statement, with many confessions of weakness, with 
many caveats and supplementary pleadings, may briefly characterize 
the educational history of this State during the period that tried 
men's souls as by fire. 

75075° — 15 8 



L 



Chapter IX. 
REORGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 



I. CONSTITUTION OF 1875. 

The new constitution of Alabama, formed by convention Sep- 
tember 6 to October 2, 1875, ratified by popular vote November 16, 
going into operation December 6, 1875, represents the reaction 
from reconstruction. It was the culmination of an eight-year struggle 
for self-government which had absorbed the greater part of the hfe 
and public energies of the State. If httle was accomplished during 
this period in the way of educational progi-ess it was because aU 
energies were absorbed in the greater question of poUtical autonomy. 
What was education to men strugghng for poUtical existence ? What 
was education without Hberty ? 

The question of the autonomy of the South had been settled by 
1875, and the constitution of that year may therefore be taken to 
represent the ideas of the native population on education. The 
careful student mil recognize at once the close relationship of the 
educational provisions of the constitution of 1875, and the laws 
based on it, to those in force prior to 1861. The constitution of 1868 
and the reconstructionists did little for education in Alabama. There 
is no ground for the claim that reconstruction or the Freedman's 
Bureau founded (or even substantially advanced) the cause of public 
education in that State.^ 

Article 12 of the constitution of 1875 deals with education. The 
marked change from the constitution of 1868 was the disappearance 
of the State board of education. That anomalous board had long 
been doomed. It now disappeared. 

In other respects there was little radical change. The new con- 
stitution provided that the assembly ''shaU estabhsh, organize, and 
maintain a system of pubhc schools" with an age hmit of 7 to 21 
years; coeducation of the races, although no longer possible, was 
formally guarded against by the requirement of separate schools 
for "the children of citizens of African descent"; the old fiction 
of the perpetual fmid was stiU. maintained, and interest on the six- 
teenth section and sui-plus revenue funds was ordered paid. Nothing 

1 See DuBois, in Atlantic Monthly, March, 1901. 
114 



EEORGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 115 

is said of the valueless sixteenth section fund, but by interpreta- 
tion this was counted as a part of the sixteenth section fund. The 
assembly was to provide for an annual poll tax of $1.50, which was 
to be used for ^'public schools in the counties in which it is levied 
and collected" ^; the assembly was to provide annually, "by taxation 
or otherwise," not less than $100,000 for public schools, and this 
sum was* to be increased "as the conditions of the treasury and the 
resources of the State will admit." 

The wasting of public money was guarded against by a provision 
that not more than 4 per cent of "all moneys raised" or "appro- 
priated for the support of public schools" should be expended other- 
wise than for the payment of teachers. A State superintendent was 
bo be elected by the people; no public money could go for sectarian 
schools; the university and the A, and M. College were put each 
under its own board of trustees, who were appointed by the governor. 
The independence of the Mobile County system of schools was recog- 
nized, and there was added a clause which was to be the entering 
wedge for the broader system which has not yet materiaUzed in the 
State — 

and all special incomes and powers of taxation as now authorized by law for the 
benefit of public schools in said county [of Mobile] shall remain undisturbed until 
otherwise provided by the general assembly. 

The income under the Constitution, when arranged by its sources, 
was as follows: 

From the State : 

1. Lands from United States, income only to be used. 

2. Gifts from individuals or State and escheats, the principal might be used. 

3. Surplus revenue, sixteenth section and valueless sixteenth section funds 

(paper funds), income to be used; rate of interest fixed by the assembly. 

4. $100,000 or more appropriated by the assembly. 
From the county : 

1. Poll tax of $1.50 per poll. 

There was no other suggestion of local tax, nor was it possible to 
levy such tax,^ save in Mobile Comity, which became for that reason, 
the cynosure of all progressive eyes. Not until the constitution of 
1901 was it possible for the counties to levy directly a 10-cent tax 
(1 mill) for the benefit of schools, and then only by a three-fifths 
vote. 

Yet, it would be an error to assume that the educational provisions 
of the new constitution were everywhere regarded as indicative of 
progress. Says James Somerville, superintendent of Pickens County: 

The most of our people regret the necessity that the legislature * * * felt of 
diminishing the interest on the sixteenth section fund one-half. They also regret the 

1 The reports of the auditor show that for year after year the poll tax was poorly collected. The errors 
and insolvencies were often 50 per cent of the total amount received; in some cases they were actually 
more than the whole. 

* Attention is called to the act of 1899 levying a general tax of 10 cents for schools, considered in Chapter X. 



116 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

necessity that the late convention * * * felt of adopting the articles on educa- 
tion ; * * * whatever may have been the necessity of this retrograde movement 
in the course of public education, it is deeply to be regretted by all. To educate 
the people should be among the highest aims of a free State that desires to continue 
free. 

II. THE SCHOOL CODES OF 1877 AND 1879. 

Such were the provisions of the constitution of 1875, which went 
into effect after the begmning of the school year 1875-76. We have 
already discussed the effects of the interpretation of this constitution 
on the school income for that year. By the beginning of the year 
1876-77 the schools had somewhat readjusted themselves. 

Then came the general school law of February 8, 1877, which went 
into effect October 1, 1877. This law, in general, was not unhke 
earher educational acts; the rate of interest on the sixteenth section 
and valueless sixteenth-section funds was fixed at 6 per cent and on 
the surplus revenue at 4 per cent; other annual rents, incomes, 
profits, sales, and escheats went to the general fund. The contribu- 
tion by the State was fixed at $130,000. 

The officers of the system were a State superintendent, county 
supermtendents, and three trustees in each township or school dis- 
trict. The State superintendent was elected for two years. He was 
an advisory officer with little opportunity for supervision. His duties 
included the apportionment of school funds "to the respective town- 
ships or school districts. '^ In the matter of sixteenth-section funds, 
the principle of distribution fii'st inaugurated by Gen. Perry in 1854 
was again made part of the law. . ji 

The superintendent of education shall first set apart to each township or other | 
school district the amount due from the State to each district as interest on its six- 
teenth-section fund or other trust fund held by the State, and all townships or school 
districts which have an income from trust funds in the hands of the State, or from lease 
or sale of their sixteenth-section lands, shall not receive anything out of the balance 
of the educational fund to be apportioned until all other townships or school districts 
having no trust fund, shall have received from the general fund such sum as will give 
them an equal per capita apportionment with the townships or districts having such 
trusts and income. 

It will be seen that by this arrangement the sixteenth-section funds 
were substituted by a per capita distribution; the district which had 
sold its lands to advantage did not receive much more, and the dis- 
trict which had wasted its lands did not receive much less. The 
capital from which this sixteenth-section income was derived was | 
paper only. 

The county superintendent was appointed by tne State superin- 
tendent. His duties were mainly financial and not supervisory in 
character. He was the treasurer of the county school funds, paid all 
teachers, made settlements with the tax collectors, made reports to 



REORGANIZATION" AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. llY 

the State superintendent, and kept an office at the county seat one 
day in each month. His pay was $75 per year and 1 per cent of his 
disbursements; this might be forfeited by failure to make reports. 

The three local trustees were a law unto themselves; they sold or 
leased school lands, estabhshed schools, hired teachers, visited 
schools, took the school census, from the reports of the teachers 
certified "how much is due each scholar for actual attendance," and 
then drew their warrant on the county supermtendent "in favor of 
each teacher * * * foj. amount due him on his annual report." 
As pay for their high-class, exacting, and important duties, they were 
relieved from road and jury duty. 

It was provided that the whole of the amount apportioned to the 
county by the State superintendent should be certified by the auditor 
on October 10 and paid by the county tax collector to the county 
superintendent. If the amount of school money thus certified was 
more than could be collected in the county, the remainder was paid 
out of the State treasury. It was also provided that funds raised by 
local taxation should be expended in the district where raised, and, 
finally, this law did not apply to cities and towns "which are provided 
for by local school laws." All expenses other than those for teachers 
could not exceed 4 per cent of the whole; the poU tax and the whole 
of the county apportionment was collected and spent in the county 
of its origin. The actual money was handled only by the county 
supermtendent. The teachers were paid on the basis of attendance. 
The minimum attendance was rigidly fixed by law at 10 pupils, and 
the length of term at 3 months, or 60 days. 

The tendency to create special school districts which developed 
during these years will be discussed later. The law of 1877 was 
superseded by a new codification enacted February 7, 1879. In most 
respects it is similar to the law of 1877, except that tlie school revenue 
is made to include income from unsold lands and hcense taxes. The 
county superintendent is stiU a financial or disbursing officer, and his 
pay is increased from 1 per cent to 2 per cent; the board of township 
or school district trustees is decreased from 3 persons to 1. His 
duties are essentially the same, but under the new law he was not to 
contract — 

to pay a teacher more per month than one-third of the amount of the district fund set 
apart for the school to be taught by such teacher, nor shall he contract for a school of 
less than three scholastic months, nor less than 10 pupils. 

Nothing was said in the new law about attendance as a basis of pay, 
but reports were more rigidly insisted on under penalty of loss of 
salary which otherwise would be paid quarterly. A new feature in 
the law was the county educational board, consisting of the county 
superintendent and two teachers of the county. They were a county 
^examming and hcensing board and were required to organize and 



I 



lis PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

maiiitain at least three teachers' mstitutes during the year. The 
teachers were requhed to attend at least one, and the board contribu- 
ted its services. Pubhc examinations were to be held in the school 
every year, and there were the elements of a graded system. The 
law provided further that all poll and local taxes should be expended 
in the school district by the race which paid them. 

This is the last general revision of the school laws of Alabama until 
1895, and with this review an examination may be made of what was 
accomphshed during the &st years of the restored native adminis- 
tration. Since the adoption of the constitution of 1875 and the read- 
justment which immediately followed, the history of the Alabama 
schools has been uneventful. Yet it presents an interesting story of 
a struggle against poverty that prevented and conservatism that 
delayed the progress most ardently longed for and worked for by 
leaders whose duty it was to guide a people toihng upward through 
the night toward the light of universal education. 

The successor of John M, McKleroy was Leroy F. Box, a lawyer of 
attainments, wlio later rose to a seat on the State circuit court bench. 
His administration covers the four years 1876-1880. He pubhshed 
three annual reports, no report being issued for 1876-77, although the 
statistics for that year are included in the report for the next. 

The feature of most importance during these years was, perhaps, the 
general school laws enacted in 1877 and 1879. It required some time 
and effort for the schools to readjust themselves to the changes then 
inaugurated, but with this exception there was no violent interrup- 
tion during the period. 

The superintendent took particular pride in emphasizing the low- 
ness of cost in the schools. This was only 57 cents per pupil per 
month, or $2.45 per term of 84f days in 1877-78. He emphasized 
this "cheapness of instruction and economy of supervision" as com- 
mendable features of the school system. He pointed out that in these 
respects Alabama surpassed all the other Southern States, and by the 
same token he might have said that here Alabama led the Union. 
His argument proved too much. 

There is in this period, beyond a doubt, a tendency to increase the 
general efficiency of the system. The number of teachers increased, 
as did the total enrollment and average attendance. After 1877-78 
there was a marked movement to reduce the number of schools and 
increase the number of pupils, although the length of the general 
school term was around four months, and there was only the natural 
increase in the revenue, based mostly on the closer collection of poll 
taxes. Some efforts were also made to realize on the old sixteenth- 
section land notes which were still in existence, some of them going 
back to 1837. By compromising some few thousand dollars were 
realized, and a very favorable sign was that in 1879-80 pubhc funds 



REORGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 119 

were being supplemented by private contributions to the extent of 
$60,145. 

It would appear that the greatest difficulty in the way of public 
school progress was too much content. Says the superintendent at 
the close of his term of office: 

Our present school system is, in the main, a good one and will compare favorably 
with the systems of other States. It is reasonably adapted to the wants of the people, 
so far as it is practicable to adapt it to the present small appropriation for schools. Yet 
the system can be improved. 

But unfortunately no Southern State with which comparisons are 
here indicated had more than the tentative beginnings of a system, 
and such comparisons served only to luU the ambitious into a false 
contentment. 

III. PROGRESS IN THE EIGHTIES. 

Judge Box was succeeded in 1880 by Hon. Henry Clay Armstrong, 
who served as State superintendent from 1880 to 1884. Perhaps the 
most important act concerning the schools in 1880-81 was the one 
giving the county superintendents full power to compromise the old 
sixteenth-section land notes. In this respect fair success was attained 
and a total of $41,529.72 was turned into the permanent fund. The 
custom had been in earlier years to use this income for general ex- 
penses; the law of March 1, 1881, required it to be invested in Ala- 
bama 6 per cent bonds, but not till 1882-83 was the law obeyed. In 
that year also the State contribution to the school fund was increased 
from $130,000 to $230,000 per annum, and the effect of this increase 
soon made itself apparent. 

The superintendent advised against sudden or radical changes in 
the school law, and none were enacted. He urged constantly the 
ever-increasing and more pressing need of money. At the end of the 
period the State was spending some 40 per cent of its total income 
for public schools ; but the constitution forbade that more than 4 per 
cent of the total school fund should be used for any purpose other 
than teachers; and therefore school sites, schoolhouses, and school 
furniture suffered, and the county superintendents were miserably 
underpaid. The superintendent recommended a special tax of 5 
mills, although evidently unconstitutional, to be devoted in part to 
material equipment, and asked that the pay of county superintend- 
ents be increased to $100 and 4 per cent of their disbursements, in- 
stead of $100 and 2 per cent. There was also a marked tendency 
toward centralization, for both superintendent and governor recom- 
mended that the county law of April 19, 1873, be repealed and that all 
funds be again gathered into and distributed from the State treasury. 
Certainly the main reason which caused the enactment of the law — 
the fear of misappfication of these funds — no longer existed. Two 
new normal schools for white teachers were estabhshed — those at 



120 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN" ALABAMA. 

Jacksonville and Livingston — and the rating on teachers' certificates 
was made more close and accurate. The cost of the schools per pupil 
was only about 60 cents per month; the school term still hovered 
aroimd four months; and the total yearly salary of teachers was 
less than $100, although this small stipend was somewhat augmented 
by private contributions and subscriptions among the whites and to 
a very small extent among the negroes. 

The extra contribution of $100,000 first made by the State hi 
1883-84 was felt that year in an increase of 15,000 in enrollment and 
of 7,000 in average attendance, with nearly 400 new schools and the 
same number of teachers, but since the length of term went up only 
three days and the salary of teachers only $2 per month, we may 
assume that the extra $100,000 went mainly for schools and teachers 
for those who had been without them. This will account for the 
increased attendance and shows that the former superintendent was 
right when he said, ''Our greatest need is more money." But the 
assembly was slow to rise to a real appreciation of this need. 

Mr. Armstrong was succeeded as superintendent in 1884 by Hon. 
Solomon Palmer, who was the only one of the post bellum superin- 
tendents to break through the four-year rule of service. He served 
for six years, and during his term of office the schools enjoyed a fair 
degree of progress, the matters of preeminent importance being 
money and teacher training. 

The system "is now regarded as essential to the prosperity of the 
State," said Mr. Palmer when he took office. This was true, and yet 
it was true only in the sense that there was no longer hostility to the 
schools. But the schools still encountered indifference on the part 
of the ruhng classes, who beheved that a great system could be 
developed with totally inadequate resources and an indifference on 
the part of the lower classes, who neglected to make use of the advan- 
tages offered. What impression on the mass of ignorant and indiffer- 
ent ilhterates could schools make that ran for three months in the 
year, with only 55 per cent of the children enrolled, with an average 
attendance of 33 per cent, with $20 to $22 as the average pay of the 
teachers per month, and with only 50 to 60 cents available per school 
child per month ? It was, indeed, a disheartening prospect, and brave 
were the men who were wilUng to bear the burden of the public 
school system. 

The main trouble was well known, and yet the educational authori- 
ties hesitated to speak freely. There was, however, at least one 
teacher in the State who analyzed the situation, and whether inspired 
or not, was bold enough to state the symptoms and prescribe the 
remedy. 



REOEGANIZATION' AXD ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 121 

J. N. Slaughter, of Rockford, Ala., speaking before the Alabama 
Educational Association in 1885, protested against selecting "State 
and county superintendents from among lawyers and politicians," 
and writing in the Alabama Teachers' Journal, for January, 1886, 
said: 

There have been absolutely free schools in the reach of the people in Alabama for 
31 years with only short intervals, and yet illiteracy is on the increase among the 
whites at the rate of 2.5 times faster than the population. The free school is at their 
doors, and yet they do not enter. Place a schoolhouse at the door of each of those 
30,000 of illiterate householders, with free tuition and option to send, and but a small 
per cent of increase would be em-olled, and few of these would learn to read. * * * 
There is a remedy. Change the constitutional age from the present limit to 5 to 15 
years. Make attendance from 7 to 9 and from 13 to 15 years compulsory for four months 
in the year. Establish regular normal institutes in each county and make attendance 
at these institutes compulsorJ^ 

It may be objected that Mr. Slaughter's history was not accurate, 
nor his statistics exact. Such objections may be granted, yet the 
statistics of enrollment and attendance show that he was not wide of 
the mark. As for his remedy — the time for that was not yet. 

The first, greatest, and most insistent demand of Maj. Palmer and 
his supporters was for more money. During the six years of his ad- 
ministration the State appropriation for schools rose from $230,000 
in 1884-85 to $350,000 in 1889-90; the poll tax, by reason of greater 
care in collecting, increased from $138,000 to $150,000. The total 
increase was from about $511,000 to about $850,000, but on the other 
hand, school population increased from 420,413 to 522,691; so the 
per capita increase was only from $1.22 to $1.63. The authorities 
even did not appreciate the situation, for while the superintendent 
was pleading eloquently for a larger share of the surplus piling up 
ui the treasury, the treasurer was recommending that the general 
tax rate should be reduced by 10 per cent. 

The State was then expending about one-third of its income on 
schools, but this sum was clearly insufficient, and there seemed Uttle 
hope of substantial increase. The amount from the State depended 
on the will of the assembly as well as the condition of the treasury; 
the income from the perpetual fimd was fixed by law; the income 
from poll tax was greatly reduced by poor collections, especially 
among the negi'oes; and what might have been the fruitful source of 
local taxation was so hedged about by constitutional Hmitations as 
to be of fittle value. 

The Alabama Educational Association was already discussing and 
advocating local taxation and the authorities were still seeking to 
equafize to all of the counties the sums derived by the richer ones 
from sixteenth section funds. The interest now paid on these funds 
was 4 per cent, and the difference between counties which had large 
funds and those which had small funds was as usual equalized out of 
State taxes. 



122 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

It will be recalled that the city of Mobile had been organized as a 
special or separate school district as early as 1826; that under the 
constitution of 1875 it was placed in a class by itself and all of its 
''special incomes and powers of taxation" recognized and affirmed 
until changed by the assembly; that this power of local taxation for 
schools given to Mobile by the constitution of 1875 was apparently 
given to no other. But other local systems were from time to time 
also provided by law for Montgomery, Sehna, Huntsville, Eufaula, 
Birmingham, Opehka, Dadeville, Oxmoor, and Marion. These acts 
produced little more than convenience in administration. They 
estabhshed school districts with boundaries coterminous with those 
of the municipaUties. Their school income was their pro rata share 
of county funds, increased perhaps by appropriations from general 
municipal funds. In only one case was authority given to levy a tax. 
The act creating the school district of Oxmoor (passed Feb. 9, 1877) 
provides : 

The trustees, and their successors in office, shall have the power to levy a tax on 
all property, both real and personal, within the bounds of such school district not to 
exceed half of 1 per cent for school purposes; and for the first and second years, half 
of 1 per cent for building purposes.^ 

There was little of this special school legislation in 1879 and 1881. 
In 1883 various acts of the kind were passed, some with, some with- 
out, the power of local taxation. Among the former were acts incor- 
porating the Peabody district in Kussell County, and Decatur district, 
each of which was empowered to levy a 5-mill tax, and in addition^ 
Decatur might ''for the first and second years" levy "one-half of 
per cent for building purposes." In 1885 BlountsviUe, Prattville 
and Cullman were authorized to levy 5 mills, reduced in 1887 in cas 
of CuUman to 2.5 mills, and Tuscaloosa 2.5 miUs; in 1887 Opehk^ 
andUniontown were permitted to levy 5 mills; Troy and Tuscaloosa 
2.5 miUs; Birmingham, 1.5 mills. 

The unconstitutionality of these acts is so manifest that it woul^ 
seem they were intended to force an issue in the courts. Such al 
issue soon came. The authorities of Culhnan levied the tax. Ther^ 
was objection, and the case reached the supreme court as Shultes 
Eberly, and was decided against the power to tax. The question 
issue, as considered by the judges, was "whether, under the Stati 
constitution, it is competent for the legislature to delegate to the^ 
trustees the power to tax." The court then proceeds to limit the 
question at issue by saying: 

We have thus limited the question, as we do not wish what may be said to be under- i 
stood as applicable to school districts created within the corporate limits of a municipal ' ' 
corporation, where the power to tax resides in the municipal authorities, and is not 
in excess of the constitutional limitation. 



1 See School Laws, 1878, p. 46; reeuacted in 1887, Laws of 1886-87, p. 1031. 



BEORGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 128 

The court declared that municipal corporations, including counties, 
are the only corporations under the constitution to whom the 
assembly may delegate its powers to tax; as this separate school 
district was in no sense a municipal corporation the act was unconsti- 
tutional/ 

By the same token it would appear that the cities might levy 
school taxes, and that the acts passed in 1887 and earher for incor- 
porated towns were constitutional. Nevertheless the attempt to 
avail themselves of this interpretation met with disaster. Under 
a law passed February 18, 1895, the city of Birmingham attempted 
to collect a special tax for schools. It was already collecting a 
municipal tax of 50 cents on the hundred, which was the constitu- 
tional limit, and for this reason the law provided that the school tax 
should be levied "on the same lists with other State taxes," and it 
was provided further — 

that whenevef the tax levied by the State shall exceed 55 cents on every $100 of 
taxable property, then the tax hereby levied shall be diminished to that rate which, 
added to the rate levied by the State, shall not exceed 75 cents on every $100 worth of 
ta,xable property, the limit fixed by the constitution [for State taxation].' 

Stripped of verbiage this act simply meant that the city of Bir- 
mingham, having already levied the 50 cents per hundred allowed for 
municipal taxation and desiring to raise more money for schools, 
undertook to shift this extra tax from the city to the State lists. 

Says the supreme court decision: 

It was supposed * * * that this constitutional inhibition might be legally 
avoided by providing that the State should levy and collect the tax and pay the same 
over to the treasurer of the board of education. 

Some taxes were paid under this act, but an appeal was made to 
the courts, and the case came up as State of Alabama v. Southern 
Railway (115 Ala., 250), with the result that the contentions of the 
State were defeated. In the first place the act was declared uncon- 
stitutional because it contained legislation on more than one subject 
which was not ''clearly expressed in its title," and so violated section 
2, Ai'ticle IV of the constitution. 

In effect the court declared it a municipal tax, and therefore violat- 
ing Article X, section 7, of the constitution. If this act were allowed 
to stand — 

it would effectually emasculate this constitutional prohibition. It would sanction 
the leA'y of a tax by the State for the purpose of public education in the city, which 
the city itself is prohibited by the constitution from levying and collecting, and 
which, if sanctioned as to one city might be extended to every other locality in the 
State, in overtlirow of this fundamental law. It would allow a thing to be done in- 
directly which is forbidden to be directly done. 

I 82 Ala. Reports, 242. 2 Session law 1894-95, pp. 738-740. 



124 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

In commenting on this decision Dr. J. H. Phillips, superintendent 

of schools in Birmingham, says, in a recent letter: 

Several of these cities attempted to collect the local tax. The city of Birmingham 
did collect several thousand dollars. This fund was paid under protest, pending a 
decision in the courts, which of course was adverse, following the principle enunciated 
in the Cullman case. No local taxes for schools were successfully collected under the 
constitution of 1875. 

And yet it does not appear that the courts ever passed on the direct 
question, either under the constitution of 1875 or of 1901, whether 
a city might not collect taxes directly for schools if it kept within 
the constitutional limit of 50 cents on the hundred allowed for muni- 
cipal taxation. The cities have at any rate found it easier to get 
their money for schools under their general powers to tax. 

From this time the separate school districts, including those to 
which the right to tax was granted in the special acts, obtained 
indirectly what they could not obtain directly. Under the constitu- 
tion the counties might levy 50 cents per hundred for county pur- 
poses; m the same way municipal corporations might levy 50 cents 
per hundred for town purposes, but in the eyes of the constitution the 
separate school district had no standing; therefore the cities taxed 
themselves as municipalities, and as such assigned a part of the pro- 
ceeds of these taxes to themselves as school districts. Unfortunately, 
however, miscellaneous demands were so heavy that little was some- 
times left for the schools. Their reports to the State superintendent 
generally show a part of their school fimds as coming from "appro- 
priations by the district" or "appropriations by the city," seldom 
fi'om direct taxation for schools. In this way, by this legal fiction, 
the cities and towns have been enabled to develop their schools, and m 
they have thus made possible a school development in the cities alto- ^ 
gether creditable. In 1887-88 the funds thus raised for schools in the 
districts were more than $174,000; in 1889-90 they were estimated at 
more than $200,000. With 1886-87 Maj. Palmer separated the reports 
of city and special school districts from those for country schools. 
The former could now begin to stand alone; the latter still needed sup- 
port. This will explain the apparent shortening of the school term 
in 1886-87 to 70.5 days, as compared with the 87.25 days of 1885-86. 
The later year included only the country schools; the earlier year 
covered all schools and showed that the citj?" schools had attained a 
school term (in 1887-88) of 180 days for both white and negro schools 
in Birmingham; 170 in Montgomery, Selma, and Huntsville; 160 in 
Tuscaloosa; 181 for whites and 204 for negroes in Eufaida; 200 for 
both in Decatm-; 180 and 160 in Troy; 170 and 140 in Opelika; 120 
in Brownville; 190 in Cullman; 178 and 163 in Prattville; 180 and 145 
in Uniontown. The trouble was that these special districts served 
only a small part of the population. In 1888-89 only 17 such special 



EEORGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 125 

districts, not including Mobile, reported to the State superintendent. 
Of these 17 districts, 12 reported a school population of 14,261 white 
and 15,055 negro children; the enrollment was 5,444 and 3,718, 
respectively; the average attendance about 3,929 and 2,281, respec- 
tively. These figures are themselves sufficiently lummous. In none 
of these places does the school term seem to have been less than 160 
days ; in one it went to 200, and yet the enrollment on school popula- 
tion was only 31 per cent and the average attendance was only 20 
per cent. It is evident that these schools needed something besides 
money. 

During this period educational consciousness began to manifest 
itself in the better organization of teachers into associations. State 
and local, white and colored. These bodies held amiual meetings, 
and, though poorly attended and treated with indifference by some 
of the higher educational institutions, preserved the even tenor 
of their way, discussed the problems of their profession, and em- 
phasized and strengthened the demand of the State superintendent 
for more money. Teachers' institutes and reading circles were 
inaugurated while the professional and technical sides of the teachers' 
work were being examined and studied in the State normal schools, 
of which two more were organized for whites. At the end of Maj. 
Palmer's administration there were normal schools for the training 
of white teachers at Florence, Livingston, Troy, Jacksonville; and 
for colored teachers at Huntsville, Tuskegee, and Montgomery. 
These received their support mainly from the State, except Tuskegee 
(which even then was drawing on the philanthropy of the North), 
and to each the Peabody fund made appreciated and appreciable 
contributions, amounting in 1889-90 to $3,800 for the seven schools. 
The normal institutes, of which two were held in 1889-90, were sup- 
ported by the Peabody fund and were intended to arouse the people 
to the need of better teachers and better schools. They were intended 
for that class of teachers who could not attend normal schools and 
they offered courses extending from two to five years. The congres- 
sional institutes, organized, as the name implies, in the congressional 
districts, were intended to meet the needs of still another class of 
teachers, and the teachers' reading circles were to encourage home 
reading. The elementary character of this work is indicated by the 
books recommended for study: Barnes's General History, Page's 
Theory and Practice of Teaching, Watts on the Improvement of the 
Mind, Hawthorne's Literature. It was necessary to lay, first, a 
cultural basis, on which something of a professional superstructure 
might be reared. The professional spirit was hindered, no doubt, by 
the failure to grade salaries as well as certificates. 

There was also the beginning of an educational press. In 1882 
and 1883 the Alabama Progress, published in Montgomery, had 



126 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

advocated education, prohibition, and kindred subjects. Then came 
the Alabama Teachers' Journal in 1886, published first in Hunts- 
villo, later in Montgomery. As its name implies, it was distinctly 
educational and served as an organ for the teachers of the State. 

During this period, also, the graded-school idea began to make 
progress, especially in the separate or special school districts, which 
were now leading the State, both in the quantity and quality of their 
work. 

Grading pupils brought up the question of textbooks, which was 
a serious one. The superintendent discussed a State or county sys- 
tem to prevent the numerous changes and multitudinous variations 
that afflicted teachers and drained the purses of parents, but the 
conservatism of the State and the spirit of local independence pre- 
vented rapid progress, Tliere was some discussion, also, of a flexible 
course of study for the ''ungraded country schools." 

Other needs of the schools were better schoolhouses — for under 
the law no public money could be devoted to the erection or repair of 
buildings, or for furniture — longerterms, and better teachers. Thesys- 
tem as a whole needed toning up, but to do this required money. This 
could be secured only by taxation, and to tax required an amendment 
to the constitution. To secure this required a long, slow process of 
education penetrating every section of the State, illuminating every 
corner, and enlightening every voter. With reconstruction before 
their eyes, the constitution makers of 1875 had been careful to 
hedge severely about the taxing power. Now that reconstruction 
was passed and the State restored to its normal self, they found 
these hmitations a stumbling block on progress, which might be 
removed only when all advocates of education should work in 
harmony. 

Private schools were still of considerable importance in the State; 
private contributions and subscriptions served to lengthen percep- 
tibly the public term; and on these sources the public had to depend 
entu'ely for the erection and maintenance of schoolhouses, except in 
the separate school districts and cities, where this want was met by 
appropriations from municipal funds or by the issue of school bonds. 
The State superintendent advocated a general 3-mill tax and a 5-mill 
tax in the special districts. The cry was for more money, and with 
this it was thought all other good things would come to the schools. 
The question was no longer whether there should be public schools, 
but whether they should be in accord with the demand of the times. 
The report of the superintendent showed that the demand for im- 
provement was based on a real necessity, since comparison of school 
accomplishments in Alabama with those of other Southern States 
showed up to the serious disadvantage of the former. 



EEOKGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 127 

There was during the period no very material change in the school 
law, other than that regulating the school funds. By an act which 
went into effect October 1, 1887, these were again gathered into the 
State treasury, from which they were paid out to the teachers quar- 
terly tlu-ough the county superintendent. They had, under the law 
of April 19, 1873, been left in the counties to avoid their misapplica- 
tion by the State authorities. They were now brought back to the 
State treasury to secure a greater contrahzation and a better account- 
ing. The law covered all funds devoted to school uses. 

Taken as a whole, this administration may be characterized as one 
of slow but steady progress upward. The class consciousness of 
teachers was awakening; there was more unity and harmony in their 
work; their influence was widening; and the cities were beginning 
to show, by extending, and liberalizing their courses, the direct bear- 
ing of education on life. The causes of friction were being eliminated, 
and all parties were working toward an extension of the constitutional 
privilege of local taxation — the one thing most needed before there 
could be steady progress. 

IV. THE HUNDLEY AMENDMENT AND AFTER. 

Maj. Palmer was succeeded December 1, 1890, by Maj. John G. 
Harris, who served as State superintendent for foiu- years, and issued 
three reports, two annual and one biennial. The educational event 
of the administration was the fight for what was known as the 
Hundley constitutional amendment. This was proposed by a joint 
resolution of the two houses of the assembly at the session of 1892-93 
and provided that the assembly might — 

confer upon the trustees of the school districts in this State the power to levy within 
their districts a special tax of not more than one-fourth of 1 per cent [2.5 mills], to be 
applied exclusively to maintaining the public schools in the districts in which said 
tax is levied. 

It provided further that each race might receive back the propor- 
tion of taxes paid by it, but this provision was not compulsory. It 
was provided that this amendment should be voted on at the gen- 
eral election for representatives on August 6, 1894, and the activi- 
ties of the department were shaped toward securing this result. In 
1893 Supt. Harris organized an educational campaign, pubhshed a 
letter to the people of the State and showed that the wealoiess of the 
school system might be easily corrected by legislation; with ''more 
money, longer school period, more trained teachers, and better school- 
houses," the schools would "soon be in the forefront of progress." 
The United States Commissioner of Education commended his zeal, 
applauded his efforts, and lent the weight of Federal influence. But 
all of this was rather in the interest of general education than of the 



128 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

amendment in particular. In fact, judging from what little expres- 
sion is fomid in official or semiofficial school organs, the school men 
were only lukewarm in its favor. A correspondent in the Educa- 
tional Exchange declared that it was not so much money that was 
needed as local supervision, and he insisted that S75,000 taken out 
of the school fund and devoted to comity supervision would produce 
better results than the whole was then doing; another said that, 
while $600,000 was the annual State expenditure, hardly more than 
$200,000 was well used. The main force urging the amendment was 
the county superintendents. They organized themselves into a 
"Campaign board of education" for the summer of 1894, and held 
many pubhc meetings, made many addresses, and strove to awaken 
the people to the opportunity. The State teachers' association said 
the proposed amendment was " a measure of great importance to all 
the people of the State and to the cause of pubhc education in par- 
ticular." They pointed out the fact that in all the States which had 
an adequate school fund the bulk of it was secured through local 
taxation, and after citing the right of local taxation in cities and 
towns under the constitution because they were municipal corpo- 
rations, denied that there was a "vahd reason why corporations 
should enjoy the privilege of local taxation because they are cities 
or towns and the same right be denied to rural districts because they 
are not corporations." 

The Hon. J. L. M. Curry, agent of the Peabody fund, addressed an 
eloquent letter to the candidates for governor on the Democratic and 
PopuHst tickets, the burden of which was local taxation, the issue 
being in his opinion "more paramount than are the issues, Federal 
and State, which divide parties, local and national." He points out 
that the school term m Alabama was 73 days, and that 41 per cent 
of the population was ilhterate in 1890, and adds: 

TMb beggarly array does not fill up the dark outlines. These short schools are in 
many cases inefficient and inadequate, and the graduates of high schools even are 
three years behind the German graduates in the amount of knowledge acquired and 
in mental development. This inferiority is largely attributable to the shorter terms 
of school years, to the want of professional teachers, and to the small enrollment 
* * *. Rotation in office, narrow partisanship, inefficiency are the direct fruits of 
making school offices not places of trust, but spoils of political victory * * *. The 
State superintendent should remain in office long enough to be thoroughly familiar 
with the duties of his exalted position, and should be an expert capable of advising 
executive and legislatiu-e, and school officers and teachers, and in full intelligent 
sympathy with the educational problems * * *. Perhaps the argument most 
likely to reach the general public is the close relation between public free schools 
and the increased productive powers of labor and enterprise * * *. Education 
creates new wealth, develops new and untold treasures, increases the growth of 
intellect, gives directive power and the power of self-help * * *. The schools in 
Alabama are handicapped by a clause in the constitution limiting local taxation to 
an extremely low figure. If by general agreement among the friends of education 



EEORGANIZATION AND ADVANCE^ 1876-1898. 129 

the removal of this restriction could be separated, from party politics, and local taxa- 
tion could be brought to the support of schools, there would soon be an era of edu- 
cational and material prosperity.^ 

By common consent the school amendment was not made an 
issue m this hotly contested campaign, for most of the leaders on 
both sides, including Col. WiUiam C. Gates, the Democratic, and 
Capt. Reuben F. Kolb, the Popuhst candidate, were generally favor- 
able to its passage. Possible hostihty for the fear that the property- 
less might avail themselves of the opportunity to levy educational 
taxes on the rich was disarmed in advance by the requirement of a 
local vote for the enactment of the law; the fear that negroes might 
get too much was met by the provision that each race might, if it was 
so desired, receive what it paid. The amendment at best was merely 
permissive. 

In jjerfect fairness, it can only be said that the support of the 
school authorities was httle more than perfunctory. Certainly their 
grief over defeat was not profound. But the amendment had strong 
friends. Hon. Solomon Palmer was one, and Dr. James K. Powers 
was another. The latter was chairman of the "Campaign board of 
education"; he sought to organize the teachers; he spoke and wrote 
in its advocacy, even calling the school children to his aid by writing 
argumentative declamations for their use ; he declared that schools 
would be at a standstill without it and became so enthusiastic that 
he said never before had "so much interest" been shown in an 
educational measure; he even prophesied its success at the polls. 
Another enthusiast appealed to metaphor and characterized the 
amendment as a "lion of learning." 

But the chief support of the measure came from the editors rather 
than the teachers. They alone appear to have grasped its signifi- 
cance. One Birmingham editor said it was " the biggest thing since 
the war, in Alabama." 

The Birmingham Age-Herald was frank in its review of the general 
school situation : 

All this talk about Alabama's splendid pdb lie-school system is rot. Outside of a 
few of the larg3r towns, she Jias the very poorest school system and spends less money 
than any State in the Union. She is at the bottom of the list of 44 States. Her only 
hope to pull up is in the school amendment. (Aug. 1.) 

In an ironical review it suggested that aboUtion of the schools was 
the easiest way to cut down expenses in Birmingham, and remarked, 
"Our people are asleep on the great question of education" (Aug. 4). 
On the day before election it said : 

Rising above all partisan considerations in this campaign, fixed in the pure air of 
patriotism, love of our homes and our children, is the proposed school amendment." 



[ 



> Letter in Report of Commissioner of Education, 1894-95, p. 1277. 
75075°— 15 9 



130 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

And again: 

Of all the 44 States in the Union, Alabama is the only one that doesn't have local 
taxation. (Aug. 5.) 

"Cast a ballot for the Hundley amendment and have posterity to 
bless your memory," said the Greenville Advocate. 

Other supporters of the measure were the Huntsville Argus, the 
Hefiin New Era, the Cherokee Sentinel (PopuUst), and the Gadsden 
Tribune. 

But the amendment met with an overwhelming defeat. The 
constitution required that an amendment to it should receive a 
majority of the whole vote cast. In Jefferson County 9,156 votes 
were cast for Gates and Kolb, and 3,519 for the amendment; no one 
there thought it worth while to vote against the measure. In Mobile 
County there were 4,049 votes for Gates and Kolb, 877 for and 834 
against the amendment. In Bullock County the vote for the amend- 
ment was 1,917 out of 2,619, this being possibly the largest majority 
in its favor in any county in the State. 

Hon. Gscar H. Hundley, the author of the amendment, was beaten 
but not cast down. He had worked for six years to get this bill 
through the assembly; he would try again. 

The Age-Herald was chagrined and spoke plainly. 

In the fight just closed the cowardly politicians held back and dodged. Even 
the friends of education were — some of them — browbeaten into silence lest speech 
might lose a vote. (Aug. 11.) 

The Educational Exchange admitted that there had been neither 
marked hostility nor enthusiastic support: 

There was no virulent opposition — there was no organized antagonism. * * * 
The sporadic attacks upon it were not of sufficient force to provoke an aggressive policy 
in its behalf. The measure died of indifference; died in the camp of its friends, the 
most cruel and ignominious fate that could have befallen it. 

Beyond this prehminary fight to secure a more liberal clause in 
the constitution in the matter of local taxation for schools, there 
was little of moment in the period. The printed reports were brief 
and imperfect; the statistics were less in amount than usual, more 
incomplete, and practically worthless. 

There were, however, some elements of progress: 

1 . The growing usefulness of the local and congressional institutes, 
which were increasing in numbers and in attendance. It was pro- 
posed to make the attendance of teachers on these institutes com- 
pulsory. 

2. The law of 1890-91 made some changes in the administrative 
features, among them being a return to three trustees for the town- 
ship in place of the one townsliip superintendent. These trustees 
Dow apportioned the funds of the township to each school as they 



EEORGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 131 

deemed "fit and equitable/' and this was interpreted as more 
favorable to the whites than the older law had been. 

3. Another law of the session of 1890-91 placed on the market 
some 30,000 acres of "school indemnity lands," which had come to 
the State from the Federal Government "on account of swamp and 
overflowed land^, other public lands in Alabama sold or otherwise 
disposed of by the Federal Government" and acquired as a result 
of the State act of February 28, 1887. 

4. In 1892-93 an act was passed estabhshing an Industrial School 
for White Girls. This was the culmination of various earlier efforts 
but represented a beginning only, $5,000 being appropriated for the 
organization of the school. 

The negro schools in general and the normal schools, white and 
colored, were reported as making good progress, and there was 
more promptness in paying the teachers. The lack of uniform 
textbooks gave trouble as did the question of the third-grade certifi- 
cates. How to find the amount to be apportioned from the poU 
tax was also a problem. This was solved by making the poll tax 
of one year the basis for the next year's apportionment. 

This administration was hampered by an unusually serious indus- 
trial and agricultural depression, by an exceedingly bitter factional 
pohtical fight, with more or less hidden fear of possible advantages 
to the negro, and most of all by indifference. 

Maj. Harris was succeeded by Hon. John O. Turner, of St. Clair 
County, who served for four years, from 1894 to 1898. 

His early work included the codification of the school laws as 
amended and modified by recent assemblies. In its general character 
the new code did not differ from the old, but there was growing during 
this decade a recognition of the increasing ramifications of the pubhc- 
school system. This system no longer included merely teaching of 
the three R's, nor confined itself to the primary and grammar grades, 
as had been the idea a generation before. 

The grades of teacher's certificates were three : For the third grade 
apphcants were to be examined on orthography, reading, penman- 
ship, practical arithmetic through fractions, primary geography, and 
the elementary principles of physiology and hygiene ; for the second 
grade, on all the foregoing and on practical arithmetic, history of 
the United States, English grammar, intermediate geography, and 
elementary algebra; the first grade required, in addition, higher 
algebra, natural philosophy, geometry, and the theory and practice 
of teaching. 

To meet these growing requirements the normal schools had been 
recognized for some years as necessary. Beginning in 1873 they had 
increased in numbers and steadily developed in their scope and field 
of operations. 



I 



132 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

This code shows also that the direct bearing of education on Ufe 
was more fully reahzed. In 1885 the assembly tried the experi- 
ment of establishing branch agricultural experiment stations with. 
the location of a school at Uniontown, Perry County; in 1889 and 
1893 others were established at Abbeville and Athens, and by 1895 
six others, making nine in all, had been established in the various 
congressional districts; from merely agricultural experiment stations 
they were now being evolved into agricultural schools and were put 
under the control of actual farmers who were to purchase land and 
provide buildings. Their funds, however, were as yet very hmited in 
amount, varying from $2,500 to $3,000. To correspond with this pro- 
vision for boys furnished by the agricultural schools was the Indus- 
trial School for White Girls, first organized under the law of 1892-93 
and located at Montevallo. Up to this time in Alabama as in other 
southern States the higher education of white girls had been without 
official recognition. White boys had been provided for in the Poly- 
technic School, at Auburn; negro boys and girls had been provided 
for some years with normal and industrial or vocational training at 
both Tuskegee and HuntsviUe. 

The most marked tendency of the period in legislation was the 
creation of separate school districts, with special powers. Between 
1876 and 1884-85 twenty-one acts of this character had been passed, 
some giving the power to tax to the separate district, some with- 
holding this power; at the session of 1886-87 thirteen separate school 
districts were estabhshed; in 1888-89, twenty-five; in 1890-91 and 
1892-93, twenty-three each; in 1894-95, twenty-five; in 1896-97 the 
number rose to nearly seventy; in 1898-99 it was about fifty. 

The question of money was uppermost in the formation of these 
districts, but the supreme court decisions, in case of Schultes v. 
Eberly, decided in 1887, and Alabama v. Southern Railway, decided 
in 1896, stood as lions in the path of local taxation. In the act form- 
ing the Montgomery separate school district, passed February 27, 
1887, it was met by providing that the city council might "appropri- 
ate" not exceeding 10 per cent of the gross revenue for the support 
of schools. The act of 1885 allowing Tuscaloosa to levy 25 cents is 
brought forward in the school code as if still in full force; the same 
amount might be levied in the Troy district ; and 20 cents in the city 
of Gadsden. In fact the legislature was becoming increasingly more 
and more appreciative of the importance of the educational system 
and the financial needs of its administrators. 

In 1894-95 it began to aUow towns like Brewton to issue bonds for 
schools and schoolhouses ; Montgomery and OpeUka followed in 1898- 
99, and it even went to the extreme of permitting the county of St. 
Clair to levy a special tax of 10 cents for education (act of Feb. 18, 
1895), so far as known the first of the kind in the State. St. Clair was 



EEOEGANIZATION AND ADVANCE, 1876-1898. 133 

followed bv Walker in 1896-97, also with a lO-cent tax, by Lamar and 
Fayette in 1898^99, with a 15-cent tax; by Chilton with a tax between 
a minirmim of 5 and a maximum of 25 cents, and by Baldwin, which 
could levy enough local school tax to bring the whole county tax up 
to the constitutional limit of 50 cents per hundred, while another law 
of the same year allowed Madison County to set aside $150 for county 
normal schools. 

The act providing for the schools of Anniston, passed in 1891, 
seems nearly a model. The school board was required to make a 
report to the city council — 

showing the amount of money required for the support and maintenance of the pub- 
lic schools of the city for the next ensuing scholastic year, and for the erection, rental, 
or repair of the necessary school buildings, together with a statement of the probable 
amount of money that will be received from the school fund or from any other source. 

The city officers were then required to make an appropriation "to 
supply whatever additional amount may be necessary." They were 
not required to appropriate for schools more than 20 per cent of the 
gross revenue of the city, but might in their discretion appropriate 
larger sums, or make special appropriations for the erection, repair, 
or rental of schoolhouses. 

This seems by far the most hberal of all these local laws, which 
while they did not always provide for local taxation, at any rate 
gave greater freedom and flexibihty of movement, more Hberty and 
independence, and whetted the appetite for better things. 

As far as the routine of this administration goes, there is little to 
distinguish it from others. The superintendent deplored the slow- 
ness of subordinates in making their reports, which in turn prevented 
him from making his own report on time. He enumerated with some 
detail the principal grievances which were then delaying the progress 
of schools: Sickness in his own family; depression in business and 
stringency in money matters; delay in the payment of teachers; 
partisan pohtics; the grafting of new phases of education on the old 
system and the consequent lack of harmony between parts and need 
of readjustment; trouble in securing patents for school lands; uncer- 
tainty over the school census; and lack of funds for institute work. 

Some of these troubles were important, some were not; some were 
removable by industry and organization ; some were merely symptons 
of an acute state of affairs, whUe others were chronic. All might be 
bettered by a skiUful administration of the resources at command. 
The superintendent recommended, as a partial solution: That the 
census be taken in July instead of August; that some uniform way of 
selecting school officers be fixed and that they be paid; that the grades 
of teachers be reduced to two, and that their examinations be uniform 
and be prepared by the superintendent ; that school money be allowed 
for the erection of schoolhouses; that the per capita apportionment 



134 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

be increased from the then rate of about 75 cents to $1.50, and that 
in order to provide the necessary money a constitutional amendment 
be passed allowing local taxation to districts, townships, and counties; 
that the local district trustees be reduced from three to one and that 
he be paid; that money for institutes be provided independent of 
the Peabody fund; that women be made eUgible for school offices; 
and that all sixteenth section land matters be transferred to a special 
officer. 

In the superintendent's report for 1897-98 the same troubles and 
the same recommendations appear, and to the troubles of the super- 
intendent were now added smallpox and yeUow fever. He was further 
crippled in his work by a shortsighted pohcy which employed him 
as a State superintendent of schools and then through "a too rigid 
economy" reduced him practically to the position of a mere clerk 
in his own department. 

During this administration there was progress; the enrollment was 
larger and the cities were surely forging ahead. The superintendent 
claimed that the reports on education in the State were based entirely 
on the work of the public schools and that this accounted for the low 
rank assigned. 

The State, however, was as yet indifferent, for, while the schools 
had been pleading for more money for 20 years, the rate of taxation 
had been lowered from 7.5 mills to 6 mills, and in 1890 to 4 mills. 
True, the school appropriation had been increased from $130,000 in 
1877-78 to $350,000 in 1889-90, but all of this sum over and above 
$100,000 was within the control of the legislature, and the feeling for 
economy which followed the reduction of the tax rate to 4 mills and a 
proper desire to avoid debt even produced a proposition to reduce the 
school appropriation to the constitutional limit; but, be it said to the 
credit of the State, such a proposition to halt the wheels of progress 
met little support, for the State was now almost ready to do openly 
and frankly those things of educational import which she had hitherto 
dared do only by indirection — lay State and local taxes for schools as 
such 



Chapter X. 
THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 



I. THE BEGESTNING OF A NEW EEA. 

With the last years of the closing century the public schools of 
Alabama began to come into their own. At last they began to feel 
the pulse beat of modern life and to realize the wider outlook which 
characterized the times. The new superintendent, Hon. John W. 
Abercrombie, was an educator by profession and was able to analyze 
the situation, diagnose the trouble, and suggest the remedy. One 
of his earliest recommendations was that the law should require the 
superintendent to be an educator. Hitherto the superintendents 
had been public men, lawyers, teachers, patriots, but not educators. 
With the administration of Mr. Abercrombie begins the modern era 
of public education in Alabama, and his first report, which covers the 
biennium of 1898-99 and 1899-1900, shows a marked advance. 

The assembly of 1898-99 made important financial progress, for 
it added $100,000 to the direct appropriation, increased the total 
amount available as interest on the sixteenth section and other land 
funds, and on the initiative of the State superintendent levied a State 
tax of 1 mill, equivalent to 10 cents on the hundred, for the exclu- 
sive use of schools. This tax was legal, for the constitution of 1875 
fixed the total amount of permissible tax at three-fourths of 1 per 
cent, or 75 cents on the hundred, with no limitations on how it 
should be appUed. The increased legislative appropriation was first 
apportioned in 1899-1900, when it raised the per capita distribu- 
tion from 73 cents to $1.05. The next year, 1900-1901, the new 
State tax became available and raised the per capita distribution from 
$1.05 to nearly $1.50. 

The school funds now amounted to more than a million dollars; 
but this was all that could be expected from the State as a State, 
''because the maximum limit of taxation authorized by the constitu- 
tion has been reached." Then follows a plea by the superintend- 
ent for local taxation: 

Then, if our funds are not sufficiently large, what shall we do? Shall we fold 
our arms and wait until Alabama doubles in wealth? If so, is it not likely to also 
double in population? * * * \Miat we should do — what other States have 
done — what we must do, if we would properly qualify our people for citizenship, 
is to give to counties, townships, districts, and municipalities the power of taxa- 

135 



136 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

tion for educational purposes. If the people of any county, townsliip, district, 
city, or town desire to levy a tax upon their property to build a schoolhouse, or 
to supplement the State fund, for the purpose of educating their children, they 
should have the * * * power to do it. * * * The right of local self-gov- 
ernment is a principle for which the southern people, and especially the people 
of Alabama, have always contended; * * * yet, in the matter of providing for 
the education of our boys and girls, it is a right which the fundamental law of 
the State denies to us. * * * There should be no limit, cc)nstitutional or statu- 
tory, general or local, to the power of the people who own property to tax them- 
selves for the purpose of fitting the children of the State for intelligent and patriotic 
citizenship. 

During this administration tlie work of creating special or sepa- 
rate districts by law continued, but not at the same rate. Since 
these districts were not municipalities, they could levy no tax; but 
the social advantage which came from this rearrangement of terri- 
tory in accord with the topography of the country more than justi- 
fied the break up of the old township system with its straight lines 
and mutitudinous transfers of children for the purpose of individual 
convenience. 

The town systems were being extended and strengthened, and the 
cities, like Bessemer and Birmingham, began to issue bonds for 
school buildings. 

In 1899 a general law was passed which sought to correct the 
many evils that had grown up around the old system of separate 
county examination of teachers. Under the new law, while the 
examinations were still held in the county, they were prepared and 
the papers read by a State board of examiners, tlirough whom came 
all certificates to teach. By the requirement of examination fees 
the system was made more than self-sustaining. The requirements 
of the several grades were not essentially different from those in 
the law of 1895. Alabama history and composition were added to 
the second grade and the school laws to the first. Under this law 
the third-grade certificate was good for two years and could be 
renewed once; the second-grade for four years with one renewal. 
The result was a succession of untrained teachers who got a little 
experience in the school room and then retired to give place to 
others untried as well as untramed; but still the new law was better^ 
than the old, for it tended to encourage improvement. 

The question of textbooks had long been a serious one, Whei 
individual choice had run to a length that was no longer bearablej 
county uniformity was tried and found to work well in 17 counties^ 
The same idea was then apphed to the State as a whole, and in 190] 
there was created a "textbook commission " "to procure for use in thd 
public free schools in this State a uniform series of textbooks." 

The congressional district agriculture schools as first organizec 
had been a partial failure, for they tended to develop into the orthodo3 
literary academies. 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 137 

These pchools are not in all respects what the general assembly creating them evi- 
dently intended they should be, viz, high schools in which the agricultural features 
would predominate. Most of them have been made high schools in which the literary 
feature predominates. 

Latin and Greek, French and German, music and art, history and 
philosophy had usurped the place intended for practical subjects. 
Some schools even undertook collegiate work. But this unforeseen 
development showed that there was as yet a gap in the State system 
between the primary grades and the college which had not been 
supplied and for which there was evidently a growing demand. 
These agricultural schools were entirely under local control; therefore 
they took such direction as their patrons desired. They became also 
the objects of factional strife, town jealousies, pohtical and personal 
prejudices. The law governing them was so amended in 1903 that 
one composite board controlled them all and so delocalized their 
administration. In 1 90 1 the minimum length of school term was fixed 
at five months, during which time " the free pubhc schools of the State 
shall be kept open absolutely free of tuition fee." This meant that 
if the public funds were not enough to provide a free school for that 
length of time a supplement sufficient for that purpose had to be 
made up by the patrons or there would be no school in the district.^ 
It would appear also that this was the first time since reconstruction 
days that aU the schools were absolutely free to all the children for 
a fixed period of time. Hitherto in many counties it was the custom, 
says the superintendent — 

for teachers to charge a tuition fee and credit each patron with his pro rata of the 
public funds. Many people who are unwilling or unable to pay the fee kept their 
children at home. It is true that those who will claim the privilege may send their 
children free for as long a time as the public funds will run the schools. Rather than 
enter their children as the children of parents who are unable or unwilling to pay the 
fees assessed, many persons let them remain out of school and grow up in ignorance. 
This system is evidently against the policy of the law. 

County supervision was still weak from the lack of education and 
experience in the superintendents and the smallness of their remuner- 
ation, but was making progress in intelligent comprehension and 
grasp, as their reports show. Another defect in the law was that 
it made no provision for building schoolhouses. This was still a 
purely private and voluntary matter which fell upon a few pubhc- 
spirited men or else — 

some old log church or other dilapidated building is frequently used. Often it is a 
building without desks, tables, windows, blackboards, maps, charts, stoves, and 
with backless benches. Children are expected to take pleasiire in attending school 
under these uncomfortable and unattractive conditions. 

1 If the five months' term was found "absolutely impracticable," it might be made four months. (See 
the law of Mar. 5, 1901.) As later laws require that the school term shall be uniform in the county, the 
minimum requirement has been abandoned of necessity. 



138 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

The superintendent continues : 

I have urged the grading of schools, but as the law does not require it, I have been 
unable to enforce it. The common schools should be classified as first, second, and 
third grade, according as they are taught by first, second, or third grade teachers 
* * * In the school conducted by a third-grade teacher, only third-grade branches 
should be taught. In the school conducted by a second-grade teacher only second 
and third grade branches should be taught. In the school conducted by a first-grade 
teacher, all the common-school branches should be permitted to be taught. Under 
existing laws * * * a third-grade teacher may teach a second or first grade school, 
and either may essay to teach college and university branches, which they fre-' 
quently do. 

It was urged that salaries be based on the grade of teacher's certifi- 
cate held. Compulsory education was discussed, for only about half 
the children of school age were enrolled, and of these 25 to 50 per 
cent did not attend regularly. 

The recommendations of the superintendent in his report for 
1898-1900, based on the situation as it then was, included: 

That the power of taxation be given to coxmties, townships, districts, cities, and 
towns. 

That the poll tax be assessed and collected by school officials and that the laws 
governing this be made more rigid. 

That after the funds were apportioned to the counties, on the basis of school popu- 
lation, they should be disbursed on that of average daily attendance. 

That qualified county superintendents be provided by law, that their pay and 
length of service be increased, and that they be required to devote all of their time to 
school work. 

That the State board of examiners conduct all teachers' examinations and that a 
minimum general average and a minimum branch grade be provided. 

That means and methods be provided for building and furnishing permanent and 
suitable schoolhouses. 

That schools be classified according to the grade of the teachers; that it be made 
illegal to teach branches higher than those upon which examinations had been passed; 
and that salaries be regulated by the grade of the certificate held. 

That absolutely free schools for five months be required; that this requirement 
regulate the number of schools in the township; that supplementary funds given by 
patrons be used to lengthen the free term. 

That when the schools have been made free and available to all a compulsory law 
for children from 7 to 14 years be enacted and that the question of uniform school 
books be considered by the assembly. 

That since the district agricultural schools had largely failed, having developed 
into "high schools in which the literary feature predominates," they should all be 
placed under a single board of control, thus eliminating local influences. 

That a central board "be created for^the purpose of ascertaining and publishing 
what schools are prepared to do the work upon which degrees can safely be granted, 
and that no school be given the power to confer degrees unless it measures up to the 
standard fixed." 

That an unconditional appropriation be made for summer normal schools and that 
the counties be authorized to make annual appropriations to the same. 

Some of these recommendations bore fruit immediately. Through 
the prompt action of the assembly, they became laws before the 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 139 

expiration of Mr. Abercrombie's term of office and have been dis- 
cussed as such, but up to the stature of others the State has not yet 
grown. 

In concluding his survey for the two years, the superintendent 

says: 

In order to keep abreast with the educational thought and progress of the country, 
I have attended many educational gatherings — county, State, southern, and National. 
* * * During the past two years a great interest in the cause of public education 
has been aroused among the people. Within that time difficulties have been over- 
come, hope has taken the place of discouragement, indifference among the people 
has vanished. The amount of funds available for common-school purposes has been 
increased more than 50 per cent; the qualifications of teachers have been raised; 
incompetent teachers have been eliminated; county supervision has been improved; 
township trustees have been more attentive; schoolhouses have been made better; 
a demand for a qualified county superintendency has been created; the school enroll- 
ment has been largely increased; teachers' institutes have been held more regularly; 
and a spirit of educational progressiveness has been aroused among the people. The 
outlook is most encouraging. 

Again he says: 

Teachers have been paid promptly. The efficiency of the teaching force has been 
advanced beyond estimate. The school term has been lengthened almost 50 per cent. 
The daily attendance has been greatly increased. Educational interest among the 
people has received a wonderful impetus. School officials have been more prompt in 
the performance of their duties. A general public school revival has been conducted. 

There was "less discord and more interest." The awakening had 
come. 

But it should not be assumed that this change in educational sen- 
timent was altogther the work of two years, or of a single man. 
More accurately, it was the result of the work of many laborers ex- 
tending over many years. The State was now recovering from the 
long-lasting effects of war; having recovered from war and again 
attained to a degree of financial independence, it began to answer 
the call from within to a newer and broader life. The quickening 
effects of this broader outlook ; increased financial resources ; a reali- 
zation of the real educational position of the State, despite the flat- 
tering glosses of politicians; increasing self-consciousness and en- 
hanced self-reliance, together with a forward-looking superintendent 
were the things that made for this educational renaissance. Let it 
be understood also that these things came in spite of constitutional 
limitations, as will be shown in the next section. 

Mr. Abercrombie resigned the office of State superintendent July 1, 
1902, to become president of the University of Alabama. His unex- 
pired term was filled out by Harry Cunningham Gunnels, who pub- 
lished the report for 1901-2. He continued the work as outlined by 
his predecessor, and renewed most of the recommendations of the 
earlier report. 



140 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

II. THE CONSTITUTION OF 1901. 

The State of Alabama adopted a new constitution in 1901, and it 
went into effect November 28 of that year. It is marked for what it 
did in the matter of educational legislation and for what it did not do. 

The limitation on the total amount of tax that might be levied by 
the State was fixed at 65 cents on the hundred, as compared with 75 
cents in the constitution of 1875. The earlier instrument left the 
assembly to divide this as it pleased; the later one says 30 cents on 
the hundred shall be levied for public schools (par. 260). The new 
constitution thus put into the organic law, accentuated and empha- 
sized, a principle which lay at the bottom of the annual lump-sum 
appropriation made by the assembly since 1875 in accord with the 
constitution of that year, and which in 1899 had crystalized into a 
general State tax of 10 cents on the hundred for public schools. It 
here recognized and formally granted a demand for more liberty in 
the matter of taxation which, by implication and exercise, adhered 
in the old. It took from debatable ground and made constitutional 
a tax which, while already exercised by the State, was at best of : 
questionable legality under court interpretations of the constitution 
of 1875. By making imperative the 30 cents per hundred tax for. 
the use of public schools it changed a lump-sum appropriation that 
had to be struggled for at every recurring session into a perpetual 
gift, which grew automatically with the increasing wealth of the 
State. The last year under the lump-sum arrangement, together 
with the 10-cent tax (1903-4), produced $831,210; the first under 
the constitutional provision (1904-5) of 30 cents produced $880,545. 
This first increase in dollars was insignificant, but the moral effects 
of the law, by the removal of uncertainty, by the security arising out 
of a constitutional provision, and the certainty of future growth, 
were very great. In 1912-13 the 30-cent tax had increased to 
$1,565,472. In 1913-14 it was $1,734,302. 

The new constitution granted to the counties power to levy a total 
county tax of 50 cents on the hundred; of this amount it was now 
formally provided that 10 cents on the hundred could be levied for 
school purposes. This school levy might increase the total tax 
levy from $1.15, the new constitutional limit, to $1.25, the old limit, 
but could be levied only when three-fiiths of the qualified voters 
favored the increase. (Par. 269.) 

By impHcation this right had adhered in the old constitution. At 
any rate some of the counties acted on the supposition. In 1895 the 
assembly had passed an act allowing St. Clair County to levy 10 
cents per hundred for schools. This was followed in 1898-99 by 
Walker (10 cents), by Fayette and Lamar (15 cents each), and in 
1900-1901 by Baldwin, which was to have a graduated county school 



I 



I 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 141 

tax beginning with 5 cents on the hundred and increasing to 20 
cents. 

It was understood that these counties had the right to levy this 
tax under the constitution, for the new tax kept within the consti- 
tutional hmit, but it was also thought that without legislative per- 
mission they could not appropriate the money thus raised to the 
schools, hence these special acts. The new constitution made this 
clearly marked tendency in the more progressive counties apply to 
the whole State, It thus recognized the trend of the times. It 
yielded to an imperative demand from the people. 

In the matter of cities, towns, villages, and other municipal cor- 
porations the total tax hmit was fixed by the new constitution, as by 
the old, at 50 cents on the hundred, and excluded, under the inter- 
pretation of the supreme court, a tax for schools as a part of the 
general power to tax. To Montgomery was now given the power 
to levy a special tax of 75 cents for the interest and principal of the 
pubhc debt, for pubhc schools and pubUc conveniences; Decatur 
might levy 50 cents for "public schools, pubhc school buildings, 
and public improvements"; while New Decatur and Cullman might 
levy a similar tax ''for educational purposes." (Par. 216.) 

Another phase of the new constitution which made for democracy 
and decentralization, but not for the continuity of school develop- 
ment, was the clause which declared the State superintendent to be 
ineligible as his own successor. (Par. 116.) 

To summarize: The State tax of 30 cents was made obhgatory; 
the county tax of 10 cents was optional; the municipalities might 
tax (i. e., appropriate) for schools under their general, not under 
special, power, while four named municipahties were given special 
powers to exceed the constitutional limits. None of these powers, 
except those to the four cities, were new. They were aU embraced, 
by imphcation at least, in the old constitution of 1875, and were 
exercised as a part of the general taxing powers of municipahties. 
They had been acted on as implied powers, and as such had not come 
up for consideration by the courts. Public-school education in 
Alabama owes something to the constitution of 1901, but the framei's 
of that instrument were the followers, "not the creators, of pubhc 
opinion. They wrote into the new constitution principles which had 
been worked out under another name, proved out in practice, and for 
which there was imperative demand. They did not touch the phase 
of the school question which was of vital importance, which is of 
paramoimt importance to-day and toward which aU Alabama educa- 
tion tends — the question of direct taxation for schools in towns and 
municipahties and in the local units. For this failure there were 
reasons. So far did the constitution makers fail in this vital principle 
that the ink on the new document was hardly dry before the State 



142 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. _ 

I 

superintendent began agitation for an amendment. He says in his 
report, dated September 30, 1902: 

An amendment to the constitution should be submitted allowing school districts 
to levy a local tax for school purposes whenever the people of the district desire it. 
The schools of Alabama can never rank with the schools of other States until provision 
is made for local taxation. 

III. CONTEMPORANEOUS CONDITIONS AND PROGRESS. 

The constitution of 1901 changed the sessions of the legislature 
from biennial to quadrennial and provided that no State superin- | 
tendent should be ehgible to succeed himself in that office. Mr. 
Gunnels was succeeded by Isaac William Hill, who had been long 
engaged in educational work. 

There was during his administration but a single session of the 
legislature. It passed, however, important school legislation, includ- 
ing the creation of the State textbook commission and the reorgani- i 
zation of the administrative boards of the agricultural schools. 
These laws have been discussed aheady as a part of the previous 
administration. 

A general law was passed (1903) allowing municipahties to levy, 
provided they kept within the constitutional limitation of 50 cents 
on the hundred, a special tax of one-fourth of 1 per cent for the 
purchase, maintenance, and improvement of school property and 
''the maintenance of pubhc schools."^ ! 

Another act, passed by this legislature on October 1, 1903, pro- 
vided the machmery in accord with which the counties were permitted 
under the new constitution to levy the special 10-cent tax for public 
schools. By address and the aid of a banquet at which all the leading 
men were present Jefferson County, in which Birmingham is located, 
was induced to lead the movement in voting the tax. Walker, Talla- 
dega, Union, and Tuscaloosa followed Jefferson, and within the next 
three years 32 others adopted the tax and the proposal was defeated 
in 4. The total number voting the tax prior to September 30, 1906, 
was 37; in most of these the law was a success; such opposition as 
had developed soon disappeared, and the superintendent makes the 
remarkable statement that "the people seem actually to have fallen 
in love with voting taxes on themselves for school purposes." 

But the most important, the most wide-reaching, and revolution- 
izing in its influence of all the acts of 1903 was that for " redistricting 
the pubhc schools of the State and for the management and control 
of the same." 

We have seen that, beginning about 1876, the custom of creating 
separate or special school districts had been a growing one. Under 

1 Laws of 1903, pp. 398-399. 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 143 

the constitution these districts could not levy a tax, but the topo- 
graphical arrangement of the new district was a great improvement 
over the rectangles of township lines in the matter of convenience, 
and, through the trustees who directed them, these separate school 
districts made for local school government. This principle of school 
organization, as we have seen, grew to considerable proportions in 
the early nineties, and by the law of September 30, 1903, was prac- 
tically extended to the whole State. Briefly, this law provided that 
" township hues for school purposes * * * are hereby aboUshed." 
County redistricting boards were created and instructed to lay out 
their counties anew "into pubhc school districts according to centers 
of population and natural barriers"; every child was to be, if possi- 
ble, within 2^ miles of a schoolhouse, and no district was to contain 
less than 15 school children. For each of these new districts there 
was to be elected a local board of three trustees, who were to take 
the school census, care for school property, employ schoolteachers, 
visit and report on schools, and have general management and con- 
trol. Chairmen of these local boards were to elect four county 
trustees who, with the county superintendent, were to make up the 
county board of education, in whose hands the county school system 
was placed. It was enacted further, as a sort of reward for diligence 
in well-doing, that when any district had provided a graded school 
system for all children of school age for not less than eight months 
in the year they might elect five district trustees instead of three 
and "assume entire control of the pubhc schools therein," only 
reporting to the county authorities. The county superintendents 
were made fiscal and disbursing officers and were paid 4 per cent of 
their disbursements up to $1,800 per year. The act was not to apply 
to "any county heretofore districted by law and which has a special 
levy from the county for the support of the public schools or to 
school districts heretofore established by law." Each incorporated 
city and town was also made a separate school district, and so the 
whole State was thus reorganized on the basis of population and natu- 
ral barriers, a result which should have been reached long before. 

The county now became the basis of administration, instead of 
the township, and each school in the county was to be kept open as 
nearly the same length of time as might be. Under the old township 
law grievances had arisen, especially in the black belt. Among these 
was the pernicious practice of paying to parents their pro rata of the 
pubhc school fund should they for any reason feel disposed to keep 
their children out of the school. This custom had its roots deep in 
those laws of ante bellum days which had to do with the distribution 
of the sixteenth section funds and now produced social injustice 
when administered by unscrupulous county officers, if allowed to 



144 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IK ALABAMA. 

pass the scrutiny of the State officials in Montgomery. Says the 
State superintendent: 

Under the old law there was no one who had direct control over the common schools 
of the counties, and "sharp practices" sprang up which were perversive of the spirit 
of public education. To illustrate: One township in a county not only ran its public 
schools eight months with a first-class teacher, but also defrayed a considerable portion 
of the expenses of boys and girls off at college, while another township in the same 
county did not secure sufficient funds to run its schools four months. The new law 
not only equalizes the school term, but also enables school ofiicials to detect attempts, 
should they be made, to pay the expenses of boys and girls in college out of school 
funds. 

Under the county system law there was much less inducement to 
pay funds to parents than there had been under the old township 
law. Under the old law a term of four months would meet the 
minimum legal requirements; under the new all schools in the county 
must be of the same length. Payments to parents reduced the school 
term of the whole county, and as the unit of administration was 
enlarged the number of men who would resent such injustice was 
increased. 

With this brief summary of the new school legislation of the State 
goes a review of educational progress for the period. 

There began to appear during this period a well-defined effort, 
steady and long continued, conscious and emphatic, to develop a 
professional consciousness. This was manifest in the increased 
interest in and the growing resources available for the normal schools. 
The University of Alabama began a summer school. Keading 
circles, county teachers' associations, and other agencies were making 
for increased professional training, although the county institutes 
had not as yet been so systematized as to be of much service. While 
this progress was making on the professional side, the higher schools 
were making good on theii* special lines. The Girls' Industrial 
School, at Montevallo, while still hampered by lack of funds and 
accommodations, was using to advantage what it had; and the 
agricultural schools, after being separated from the six lower grades, 
were now to a large extent delocaUzed and were turning to the agri- 
cultural and other practical work for which they had been intended. 
To these schools there was now added at the Alabama Polytechnic 
Institute a summer school for farmers. The first session was for 
10 days only, but the attendance reached 400. 

The new law regulating the examination and certification of teach- 
ers worked successfully. It encouraged the upper grades, and the 
State was soon unable to meet the demand for first and second grade 
teachers. It was estimated that the standard had been raised 
already 50 per cent since the passage of the law. Another change 
for the better was the payment of teachers monthly instead of 
quarterly, but "the average Alabama schoolhouse" was still ''not 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914, 145 

only a disgrace to the community in which it stands but a disgrace 
to the State," and under the law not a cent of public money could 
be used for school buildings or for incidental expenses, but was all 
apportioned on the basis of school population. The day of the 
schoolhouse did not come till the organization of the Women's 
Association for the Bettemient of Schoolhouses. A revision of the 
school census made under the act of 1903 showed the rolls padded 
to the extent of 28,218 pupils. The old school census showed 
707,269, which was reduced by the newer and more careful enum- 
eration to 679,051. 

Under the new constitution the school funds increased in direct 
proportion to the taxable wealth of the State. But this constitu- 
tion had at the same time dealt a temporary blow to the poll-tax 
fund. This fund was apportioned to the race which paid it, but the 
negro, being no longer allowed to vote, declined to pay the poll tax, 
and this tax dropped from $156,043 in 1900-1901 to $89,810 in 
1904-5. A better system of collection, however, raised it to $179,095 
in 1911-12. 

The recommendations made in Supt. Hill's second report show 
that the schools were advancing. He urged that the public school 
be graded so that the whole of the school work might be correlated 
and articulated from the primary through the higher schools to the 
university ; that at least one high school in each county be established ; 
that a supplementary State appropriation of $300,000 be made for 
schools and $50,000 for school buildmgs; that an amendment to 
the constitution permitting a school-district tax be submitted by 
the legislature, because the available funds were still insufficient 
for a 5 months' school taught by even a third-grade teacher, without 
private contributions to supplement the public funds. 

The reports of the county superintendents reveal more business and 
educational qualifications than had been the case in earlier years. 
The type of the men engaged in education was rising aU along the 
line. There was progress in quality as well as quantity. Professional 
consciousness was developing. 

The effects of the county tax, which usually increased the length 
of the term a month, began to be visible ; some of the towns (as Girard, 
ia Russell County) were allowed to vote on bonds for schoolhouses; 
Dothan furnished books as well as tuition and made the whole 
absolutely free; while some of the counties, as Henry, stiU had to 
assess an entrance fee on each child to make the funds hold out; 
Escambia levied the State tax of 30 cents for schools, then a county 
tax of 20 cents,^ and was ready to levy the additional tax of 10 cents 

> This 20-cent tax was permissible because the total county levy without it did not exceed 30 cents on the 
hundred. 

75075°— 15 10 



146 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

permitted by the constitution. Surely this county at least was 
finding itself. 

Mr. Hill was succeeded in 1906 by Hon. Harry C. Gunnels, who 
completed his term of service m 1910, and gave place to Hon. Henry 
Jones Willuigham. He became president of the State Normal School 
at Florence in 1913; his term was completed by Hon. William F. 
Feagin, who in December, 1914, entered upon a new term of four 
years. 

In recent years the character of pubhc education in Alabama has 
been changing radically. It is no longer a mere matter of teaching 
the three R's, but a wider and broader idea of education has been 
evolved and has given character both to State legislation and to the 
State superintendent's reports. The work of the department has 
become more systematized ; the successive administrations are better 
articulated one with another; personal equations count for less; and 
the superintendent no longer dominates the system in accord with 
his own ideas, as was entirely possible in the earlier days when the 
machinery of the department was less in amount and less complex 
in character. He is no longer the system, but the head of a system to 
which he seeks to give direction; the individual is less; organized 
society as expressed in public opinion and public organization is 
more, and is now reaching out into related and soon to be correlated 
fields of educational activity. 

This personal domination of the superintendent which characterized 
the administrations of the past was nowhere more evident than in 
the annual reports, and nowhere else does this individuality retain 
its hold with such tenacity. It would seem that here at least no 
effort has ever been made to standardize the reports in such a way as 
to make out of the whole series a single connected whole. Their use 
causes the student constant difficulties, for hardly are any two ahke. 
Each superintendent's reports are dominated by the personal equa- 
tion. They vary in form and content, in fuUness and accuracy. 
They sometimes give two or more sets of figures for the same thing 
and agree neither with themselves nor from year to year. The many 
blanks left in the tables are presumably beyond the power of the 
superintendent to remedy, but certainly not so the long columns 
which are untotaled. The various items are not treated uniformly, 
and one which may be fuUy reported for two or three years is then 
dropped altogether; hence it becomes next to impossible to trace any 
particular line of school development with that minuteness of detail 
sometimes necessary, and any statistics based on these reports can 
not at best be anything more than approximate. In 1906-1908 the 
superintendent's report is made up entirely of the statistics and nar- 
rative reports from the counties. There is no attempt to interpret 
these local reports or to give an idea of any connected educational 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 147 

development during the period. This characteristic dominated also 
the reports for 1909 and 1910, but the next superintendent did not 
print the county reports as a series of local disconnected systems, 
made up of isolated, independent, and more or less uncorrelated frag- 
ments, but undertook in his report to interpret the tendency of the 
times, to present the evolution of pubhc school education as a whole, 
and to point out its rapidly changing and broadening character. 

Nowhere is this evolution in the character of education more visible 
than in school legislation, which more than ever begins to concern 
itself with higher, technical, and industrial education. Witness the 
educational acts of 1907 and 1911, which have little to do with the 
schools in the narrower sense, except as to the usual routine appro- 
priations. They deal with broader issues : To aid and extend the field 
of technical education; to provide for industrial schools for boys and 
girls ; to sell university and other school lands ; to estabhsh more nor- 
mal schools ; to appropriate for the deaf and blind ; to provide funds 
for medical education; to define and provide for delinquent children; 
to widen the usefulness of agricultural, girls' industrial, boys' trade 
and industrial schools; to provide for the higher colleges and the 
university; to form farm-life clubs and encourage farm demonstra- 
tion work; to estabhsh high schools, Negro reformatories, etc. 

During these years the superintendents' reports discuss, besides 
the various phases of education in the narrower sense, hke enrollment, 
attendance, schoolhouses, local taxation, compulsory attendance, 
graded schools, teachers' certificates, etc., such cognate and kindred 
subjects as: The supervising of rural schools; school-improvement 
associations and their activities ; rural lyceums and hbraries ; county 
high schools and inspectors of the same; agricultural schools, normal 
schools, county superintendents, etc. 

As in the past, so now, enrollment and attendance are matters 
which call for serious consideration. True, as will be seen by refer- 
ence to the statistical appendix, the enrollment and attendance are 
both growing in absolute numbers, but the relative increase is small, 
and there are still a few county superintendents who are content to 
quote platitudes about trusting ''that the people of Alabama will 
never so far forget their duty to their children as to require penal 
statutes to force them to comply with parental duties," but others 
of their number reahze the situation and see the remedy as clearly as 
the State authorities. Says E. R. Harris, county superintendent of 
Lamar, in 1908: 

Education in Alabama is too partial as to the number reached — too little adapted 
to the various needs of our population. If we would restore respect for authority, 
obedience to law, prevent frauds, political corruption, oppression of the poor, and 
save the State we must have universal education. To secure universal education, 
regular attendance * * * must be required by the State. 



148 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Two years later E. C. Glover, superintendent of Henry, wrote: 

I also favor free textbooks for the public schools of Alabama. I believe that the 
State ought to furnish the books along with the money to pay the teachers. Then 
when we have free schools, when the schools are free in truth as well as in name, com- 
pulsory education would not penalize poverty, and many who now oppose such a law 
would give it their hearty support. 

Says the State superintendent in 1910-11: 

Perhaps we have no right to expect a larger proportion of our young people to attend 
school when this question is determined absolutely and only by the will of the parents 
and cliildren themselves. 

If we take the reports of the superintendent for the last three 
years and interpret them in the light of this remark, we shall find 
that the enrollment in 1910-11 was 73 per cent of the school popu- 
lation; in 1911-12 it was 72 per cent; and in 1912-13 it was 74.7 per 
cent. For the same years the average attendance was 63 per cent, 
61 per cent, and 60 per cent, respectively, of the enrollment. Now, 
if we translate these percentages of enrollment and attendance into 
dollars, we shall find them equal to 63/100 of 73/100, 61/100 of 
72/100, and 60/100 of 74.7/100, or 46 per cent, 44 per cent, and 45 
per cent. All of which means, assuming the present force of teachers 
able to handle the total school population if in actual attendance, 
that the State received 46 cents for each dollar spent in 1910-11, 44 
cents in 1911-12, and 45 cents in 1912-13. 

Tliis measurement is of average attendance in dollars. Now 
consider it in length of school term. The actual term in 1910-11 
was 127 days, in 1911-12 it was 132 days, and in 1912-13 it was 133 
days. But since the per cent of the total school population in 
regular attendance was only 46 per cent, 44 per cent, and 45 per cent, 
respectively, the true length of term was 57.4 days in 1910-11; 58.08 
days in 1911-12; and 59.85 days in 1912-13. 

These figures are based on the total enrollment and attendance for 
these years. It includes cities and high schools, but excludes private 
and denominational schools, and is confined to the whites, for they 
are the more favored and represent the high-water mark of both 
intelhgence and capacity. If negroes were admitted into the calcu- 
lation the figures would be still less favorable. 

The inevitable conclusion, therefore, follows that, at the present 
rate of enrollment and attendance, the State of Alabama may con- 
tinue to pour money as water into these depths of inefficiency and 
never get back more than 45 cents on the dollar. If the State wishes 
to recover from this condition of educational bankruptcy, she must 
not only increase the length of term, but increase the per cent of the 
equally important factors of enrollment and average attendance. 

The above is a consideration of efficiency as measured in attendance 
and length of term only. If wo subtract also the efficiency lost to 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 149 

instruction in the school by the interruption of classes we may find 
that the standard of efficiency actually attained under this system of 
perfect freedom is perhaps onl^ one-third, possibly only one-fourth, 
of what might be attained under the intelligent administration of a 
compulsory law. 

No wonder the superintendent declares: 

The conclusion seems irresistible that Alabama without much more delay will be 
compelled to enact a reasonable compulsory-attendance law, and thus follow in the 
footsteps of all but a half dozen of the States of the American Union * * *, Public 
sentiment in tliis State appears to be growing strongly in favor of a law requiring 
compulsory attendance * * *. Such a law will be popular and greatly beneficial. 

In his report for 1912-13 he enters into an estimate of the additional 
expense that would be entailed by compulsory education: 

The overwhelming majority of our public schools, especially in the rural districts, 
are crowded for only a few weeks in the middle of each winter session. A teaching 
force which is sufficient to care for this crowded condition during less than half the 
session is employed in almost all cases for the entire session, and, therefore, if those 
who now enroll in school were required to attend regularly, the additional cost of 
maintenance, so far as they are concerned, would be practically nothing. The only 
additional cost in the maintenance of sufficient school facilities to care for all the 
children who ought to be required to attend would apply only to those children who 
are not now enrolled and who have not been in the habit of attending any school 
whatever. * * * An investigation of the subject fails to disclose any State or 
any civilized country which has repealed a compulsory education law. * * * It 
is modified from time to time, usually extended in its scope and in its requirements. 

Tlie legislature of 1911 passed three laws which serve to unify the 
general administration of the schools. One of these defined and 
extended the duties of the county superintendent. He was required 
to keep an office at the county seat, to visit all the schools in his 
county, to examine into the condition of school funds, and to make 
monthly and annual reports. He was to be paid 4 per cent on dis- 
bursements, and if employed on full time might be paid a fixed salary 
of not less than $1,000. This law went into effect October 1, 1913. 
Another law provides that the county board of education "select 
annually some suitable person in the county to act as treasurer." 
This choice has usually fallen on some local banker who has been 
wilUng to perform the duties of the office in exchange for the ad- 
vantage of the deposit of county school funds. He pays the teachers 
monthly. 

Another law (Apr. 18, 1911) defined the qualifications necessary 
for teachers' certificates: 

For third-grade certificates applicants were to be examined on 
orthography, reading, penmanship, grammar, practical arithmetic, 
United States history, geography, the elementary principles of phys- 
iology and hygiene and agriculture, theory and practice of teaching. 



150 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

For second-grade certificates, in addition to the above, additional 
requirements in arithmetic, history of Alabama, Enghsh grammar 
and hterature, intermediate geography. United States history, and 
civics and class management. 

For the first grade, in addition to the above, algebra, geometry, 
physics, elementary psychology, the school laws of Alabama, and 
advanced Enghsh. 

For hfe certificates, the history of education. 

The result of the law governing examination ot teachers, granting 
certificates, and grading salaries according to the certificates held 
has been a gradual rise in the capacity and training of the teachers 
and a tendency to gradually eliminate the lower grades, but the 
salaries are still discouragingly low, and the cheapest man is still 
almost the universal favorite. In 1912-13 male white teachers 
received on an average $429; women received $346. Among the 
negroes men received $191 and women $153. This indicated a 
general increase all along the line, except in the case of negro women, 
who fell back $2 per month. Said the superintendent in 1911-12: 
"Alabama receives to-day more than $40 a month for her convicts, or 
approximately $500 gross income from each convict hired. This 
is considerably more than is paid for the services of the average 
pubUc school teacher in Alabama." Then he naively adds: ''This 
statement of fact is not made as a suggestion that teachers should 
leave off teaching and become convicts," but it does present for the 
consideration of patriotic citizens the further fact that the State as 
an owner esteems more highly the labor of its negro convicts than as 
an employer it does the services of its white teachers. 

The superintendent's report for 1913-14, moreover, shows a fur- 
ther widening of the difference between the pay of city and rural 
teachers. White city men teachers received an average of $1,032 
and women teachers an average of $533 as against $337 and $293 for 
rural men and women teachers, respectively. For negroes the figures 
were $355 and $262 as against $132 and $123. The salaries of rural 
teachers have decreased while those of city teachers have increased.J 
The superintendent adds: 

It is only fair to conclude that the best teachers of both races will gravitate toward 
the cities and towns more strongly than ever unless our present salaries are increased, 
and any thought of decided improvement along the lines indicated above will make 
it clear that we shall never have the funds until our constitution is so amended as to 
make it possible for us to provide them by local taxation. 

Along with the questions of better teachers and better salaries foi 
teachers is bound up another on which these of necessity rest. The 
question of resources is still the burning one in the State. School 
funds are still insufficient to meet legitimate school needs. Up to] 
October 1, 1912, the 10-cent county tax allowed by the constitutioi 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 151 

of 1901 had been voted in 44 of the 67 counties for such length of 
time as suited the people. In a few counties the tax was proposed 
and defeated. In one or two it was tried and then abandoned, the 
result being manifest injury to the schools; in another it was changed 
from schools to roads. But even when in operation this tax does not 
supply sufficient funds, and both towns and counties have from time 
to time gotten around its hmitations. In 1901 Escambia had 
been required by law to levy for the year 1901 and for "each year 
thereafter" a special school tax of not less than 2 mills of the total 
county tax which was to be "used for the support and maintenance 
of the public schools."^ It will be noted that this act antedated 
the constitution of 1901 and exceeded the limits provided by that 
instrument. Again, it is found that Baldwin levied in 1909 a 3-mill 
tax for schools and thereby won the distinction of being the only 
county in the State at that time whose local funds exceeded the 
general fund from the State and the poll tax combined.^ 

In the case of Mobile, which has since attained the same rank, a 
loss of some $37,000 in annual revenue was sustained about 1909 as a 
result of the cutting out of liquor license fees when State prohibition 
went into effect. It was necessary, therefore, to retrench the activi- 
ties of the schools, increase fees and levy a 2-mill tax to get more 
school money. In 1912-13 this was reported as $124,250, the largest 
in any county, except Jefferson, which that year received $189,450 
from a similar source. In 1909 Girard, Scale and Hurtsboro re- 
sorted to a bond sale to raise money for buildmg schoolhouses ; in 
1910 Jackson County and Thomasville, Clarke County, did the same, 
but aU of these makeshifts could not produce as much money as was 
needed for the schools. In 1908 public income was supplemented from 
private sources, by fees or contributions, to the extent of $299,481; 
in 1909 it was $286,000; in 1910, $255,000; in 1911-12, $310,084; 
in 1912-13, $354,702; and in 1913-14, $429,605. Hand in hand 
with the subjects of compulsory attendance, efficient supervision, 
and general development goes their complement, the question of 
local taxation. These four are the paramount issues in the educa- 
tional world of Alabama to-day. Being more concrete and tangible, 
local taxation has received more attention than compulsory attend- 
ance, has been more considered by the people and is undoubtedly 
making progress. From the statements just made its necessity is 
perfectly apparent. 

Says the superintendent: 

To depend on subscription or tuition fees is folly, and every observant man knows 
it. If the money could be obtained in that way it would be wholly unfair, because 
* * * a few individuals in each community would have the supplement to pay, 

1 See Laws, 190&-1901, p. 1416. 

? See report, 1909, p. 11. Up to Oct. 1, 1914, the county tax had been voted " by more than 45 Alabama 
counties." 



152 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

and they would in few instances represent those who were most able to pay it. If 
public education is a public duty * * * the only fair and equitable means of 
raising a supplemental fund * * * is through some method of taxation * * *. 
Each county is now allowed * * * to levy * * * 10 cents on the hundred 
dollars of property * * *. Forty-four counties have already taken advantage of 
this provision * * *, if our people are capable of self-government, they ought 
to have the privilege of saying on election day whether they are willing to levy a tax 
of more than 1 mill in any given county in support of the education of their own 
children, and when the county has levied a reasonable school tax on the property of 
the whole county for the maintenance of all the schools in the county, then the quali- 
fied electors in any school district, whether town, city, or rural, ought to have the 
additional privilege of saying by their vote whether they will levy on the property 
of that district a reasonable additional tax as a further supplement to their own school 
or schools. If, however, our people are not capable of self-government, and if they 
are so anxious to pay taxes that they would vote upon themselves an unreasonable 
rate of taxation, then, of course, our present constitution, which denies them the 
privilege of passing on such a question, ought not to be changed.* 

The number of separate schools increased m 1911-12 over the 
previous year by 1 per cent. There was substantially a similar in- 
crease for 1912-13. The superintendent declares that there are 
already too many, and while consolidation and transportation have 
been but httle discussed in the State, he recommends the combining 
of one-teacher schools and reports that in some sections the teaching 
of high-school subjects has been consolidated so as to leave the grade 
teachers free for grade work. If this plan continues to work out 
successfully, it will be the beginning of centrahzation on a larger 
scale. 

In 1914 there was inaugurated an educational survey of three 
counties which were regarded as typical of the whole. The counties 
chosen were Morgan in the north, Macon in the east central black 
belt, and Covmgton in the south. The survey was conducted by 
Messrs. Baker and Sibley, inspectors of rural schools, and was pub- 
lished by the department in its Bulletin No. 43. 

It was thought that a survey of the white schools of Macon, where 
the negroes outnumber the whites at the rate of 6 to 1, would give 
''a fair idea of conditions generally prevailing in the white schools 
in the black belt," and a preliminary study of the counties showed 
that "the negro schools in Morgan and Covington Counties were 
representative of the general conditions of negro schools throughout 
the State." 

The survey reported on the general questions of population, ht- 
eracy, farming, economic conditions, and public health. In educa- 
tional matters it discussed at length general administration, teachers, 
buildings, grounds, material equipment, values of school property, 
and vitalizing agencies. It covered the field with much thorough- 
ness, emphasized growing strength in some directions, and pointed 

1 Report 1911-12, pp. 9-10. See similar remarks in the report for 1912-13, pp. 10-14. 



i 



THE AWAKENING, 1898-1914. 153 

out continued weakness in others. It declared that there is a ten- 
dency toward building up an efficient county administration as a 
basis for good schools, but that back of all these efforts hes the neces- 
sity for more money. There can at present be no local taxation; 
private, supplementary contributions are small and uncertain, and 
salaries are pitifully low. The average for the three counties is S3 53 — 

or an average of $27.75 per month distributed througliout the year. As the teacher 
must live in the summer if she if? to be ready for work in winter, the pay should be 
thought of as a year's income. These figures include all public school positions in 
the counties except the county superintendents. If these had been included the 
figures would have been $29.07 per month instead. Of course no chauffeur, deputy 
sheriff, or railway fireman would work at such wages. Many day laborers get more. 

Then, to drive this lesson home, the survey prints the pictures of 
an automobile and a schoolhouse side by side. It gives the initial 
cost of the automobile and the average cost of the schoolhouse, the 
annual maintenance of each, and concludes that — 

If one man in a rural community owns a very moderately priced automobile, he has 
invested in it more than the entire community has invested in its school plant. It 
is also possible that he spends more upon the upkeep of the automobile than the com- 
munity spends upon the upkeep of the school, even including the teacher's salary. 

The latest annual report of the State superintendent, that for 
1913-14, continues agitation along the lines of earlier reports and 
of the county survey considered above. The superintendent urges 
in particular that more effort be made to promote community 
organization. This is to come through the common school, the 
institution nearest the soil, which should be made the apostle of 
intelligence, of mdustry, and of thrift for the regeneration of rural 
life. With a country life commission to serve as a clearing house 
of information and ideas and to ;gromote the development of com- 
munity organization "we may justly hope to weld the people of any 
district * * * into one coherent whole for its own uplift with 
the country schoolhouse as the base of operation." 

In the matter of constructive legislation the superintendent 
urges what has been urged before: Local taxation, a State board of 
education, consolidation, and compulsory attendance.^ 

The last word on the educational situation is that of Gov. O'Neal, 
who, in his message to the legislature in January, 1915, points out 
the shortcomings of the present system. The most serious of these 
he considers the apportionment of school funds to the counties on 
the basis of the whole school population, which the experience of 
the State has shown to be "manifestly unjust and inequitable." 
He also shows how this apportionment works out in practice in favor 
of white teachers in the black belt counties as against those in the 

1 Kept. Dept. Educ, 1913-14, William F. Feagin, superintendent. 



154 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

white counties. He quotes the statistics of 10 counties in each group 
and then adds: 

It will thus be seen that there was apportioned to these 10 counties mentioned in 
the black belt for the fiscal year 1913 from the 3-mill tax and the poll tax the sum of 
$410,709.55, used for the education of 12,868 children attending the schools in those 
counties; whereas there was apportioned the same year to 10 white counties the sum 
of $233,428.10 for the education of 28,440 children attending the schools in those 
counties. These figures show that the State paid for the education of each child that 
attended school in the black belt counties mentioned dm-ing the fiscal year 1913 
* * * the sum of $31,917 per capita; whereas it only paid in the white counties 
mentioned the sum of $8,207 per capita. 

He then comments on the situation as follows: 

All students on the subject agree that an equal per capita distribution of funds as 
now required by our State constitution is not an equitable distribution, is not based 
on sound principle and can not afford the relief which should be given, and is unsat- 
isfactory and unjust. It does not accomplish the equalization of burdens and ad- 
vantages, and its abandonment in the interest of justice is the first and most important 
step on educational reform. * * * The present method of apportionment gives 
the money of the State to communities for the education of children who do not attend 
and who do not expect to attend the public schools. * * * Under the present sys- 
tem we put an active and continual premium on nonattendance and encourage the 
school-teachers of the country by consideration of their own personal interests to 
discourage attendance. * * * The real unit of cost in our public schools is not 
the number of children who may or may not attend, but the cost of the teacher. 

The governor declares further that the educational interests of the 
State demand "a more efficient system of county supervision and 
administration." He urges the repeal of the constitutional pro- 
vision which forbids more than 4 per cent of the school funds being 
expended for anything other than teachers; he urges consolidation 
of schools, health supervision, and the creation of a State board of 
education with full administrative powers ; he urges that the normal 
schools at Daphne and Moundville be changed to county high schools, 
and that the appropriations and equipment of the four normal 
schools remaining be increased; that the standard of teaching bej 
raised; that better schoolhouses be erected and that they be usedj 
as social centers; that a course of study be prepared for country 
schools; that education be vocationalized and that a proper survey 
of the educational field be made by intelligent educators.^ 

1 Governor's message to the Legislature of Alabama, Jan. 12, 1915, pp. 51-78. 



Chapter XI. 
MISCELLANEOUS AND SUPPLEMENTARY AGENCIES. 



I. NORMAL SCHOOLS AND OTHER NORMAL AGENCIES. 

Normal training for teachers dates from the early days of the 
system. Gen. Perry discussed its importance and necessity in ante 
bellum days, but there was no formal organization of normal schools 
tUl the reconstruction period. So far as known, the first act in 
Alabama making special provision for the education of teachers was 
that passed by the State board of education on August 11, 1868, that 
there be established — 

in each of the cities of Mobile, Montgomery, Huntsville, and Selma, and in each of 
the towns of Talladega, Eufaula, Athens, Tuscumbia, Marion, and Evergreen [and 
Portersville, omitted from law by mistake], one or more classes of advanced pupils 
(each of which shall consist of not less than 15 pupils) who may desire to become fitted 
for the occupation of teachers, to which class instruction shall be given in the most 
approved methods of teaching, and opportunities of practice afforded in the instruc- 
tion of pupils of less advanced grades in the common schools. Pupils may be admitted 
into any of the normal classes on the recommendation of any teacher of a common 
school * * * only upon a promise in writing that the pupil will teach in the 
schools of Alabama, when properly qualified so to do, for at least two years. 

No hmitation was put on the expenses that might be incurred by 
these classes. There was the simple provision that they be certified 
by the county superintendent and paid by the State treasurer. 
In 1869 Dr. Cloud reported that nine normal classes, with 300 pupils, 
had been taught in six different places during the previous year. We 
have no direct testimony as to the success of these schools, except 
that given by Supt. Hodgson in January, 1871, and quoted already. 
His estimate is decidedly unfavorable, but we must make allowance 
for the rancor of poHtical bitterness. Mr. Hodgson adds to his 
criticism: "The subsequent abandonment of the schools, it is fair 
to presume, has resulted in a loss to this department of $12,000 for 
the year 1869 and $25,000 for the year 1870." These amounts were, 
to be exact, $5,371.85 and $16,582.10. 

In his special report of January 28, 1871, Supt. Hodgson says: 

At the last session of the board the old schools were abolished, and a bill was passed 
establishing 13 normal schools, 7 for the training of white teachers and 6 for the training 
of colored teachers. This was three times as many as the State of New York possessed 
for 25 years, and more than twice as many as she possesses to-day. Your Excellency 
has seen proper to withhold your signature from that bill. 

But what was evidently only a variation of the original idea ap- 
pears in the legislation looking toward teacher-training in separate 
institutions enacted by the State board of education on December 
20, 1871, for on that day four distinct acts were passed. The first 

155 



156 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

provided for four normal schook, one each at Montgomery, Hunts- 
ville, Marion, and Sparta, for the training of colored teachers of both 
sexes. To meet the expenses of these schools, $4,750 was appro- 
priated. There was the usual requisite that pupils teach two years 
in the pubUc schools of the State in return for tuition. A second act 
provided for four normal schools for white teachers, one each at 
TaUadega, Tuscumbia, Scottsboro, and Midway; and for their sup- 
port $4,500 was provided. A third act provided for a normal school 
for white women teachers (location not fixed) and set aside $5,000 
for its use. Another act established a Central Normal School for the 
education of white teachers in connection with the State university, 
and provided $5,000 for its use. 

These acts were not aU put into operation. In December, 1872, 
another act is found appropriating $3,250 for the three colored normal 
schools at Marion, Huntsville, and Sparta, and it is probable that the 
legislation then passed in regard to the State normal school at Flor- 
ence goes back to that of the previous year, although there is nothing 
to connect it directly with the earlier act to provide for white women 
teachers, and the supplementary act dealing with the Florence 
Wesleyan University provides for the education of white male 
teachers. A fund of $5,000 was provided for the use of the school. 
A year later (Dec. 5, 1873) this act was so amended as to admit both 
men and women to the school. At the same time another act pro- 
vided for the establishment of a normal school and university for 
negroes in connection with the Lincoln School, at Marion, and 
appropriated $2,000 (increased by act of Dec. 15, 1874, to $4,000) 
for normal purposes; a similar school for negroes was located at 
Huntsville, and $1,000 provided for its maintenance. No other 
acts relating to normal schools seem to have been passed dming the 
reconstruction period, and this is the beginning of teacher training 
in the State. 

The total sum paid by the State for normal instruction in the 
scholastic year 1873 (Oct. 1, 1872 to Sept. 30, 1873), was $9,750, of 
which $5,000 went to the white normal school at the imiversity and 
$4,750 was divided among the colored normal schools at Mont- 
gomery, Marion, Huntsville, and Sparta. The next year, 1873-74, 
the total was $8,000, of which $5,000 went for white teachers at 
Florence and $3,000 to the colored schools at Marion and Hunts- 
ville. In 1874-75 they received $10,000. In 1875-76 the school 
at Florence had 65 normal pupils. 

The laws relating to normal schools, passed by the State board 
of education, survived the end of reconstruction and were brought 
over into the code of 1876 and into the act of February 8, 1877. Under 
the provisions of that act there was estabUshed permanently in the 
buildings of the Florence Wesleyan University at Florence ''a school 
for the education of white male and female teachers," and $5,000 was 



NORMAL SCHOOLS AND OTHER NORMAL AGENCIES. 157 

provided for the support of the faculty exclusively. In the same 
way the new school act again establishes in the building of the Lin- 
coln School in Marion ''a State normal school and university for 
colored teachers and students," for which $4,000 was appropriated, 
and for the "normal school for the education of colored teachers" at 
Huntsville $1,000 was appropriated. It will be quickly noticed that 
these laws were merely a reenactment of the legislation of the board 
of education passed in 1872 and 1873, and since that time the prin- 
ciple covering the training of prospective teachers has been fully 
recognized in the State. 

There are now six normal schools in the State devoted to the educa- 
tion of white teachers and three for negroes teachers. To the funds 
of all of these institutions the State is the principal contributor, 
but important gifts have been received from the Peabody and Slater 
funds and in the case of Tuskegee from many different sources. 
Indeed, by far the greater part of the funds of that institution have 
come from the outside. In 1913-14 the total contribution to the 
cause of normal schools by the State was $1 14,500. Of this sum Flor- 
ence, Jacksonville, Livingston, and Troy received $20,000 each; Daphne 
andMoundville, $5,000 each; $16,000 went to Montgomery; $4,000 to 
Normal; and $4,500 to Tuskegee. Each is required to report regu- 
larly to the State superintendent. 

Besides the normal schools established and supported by the State 
whose statistics are given later, there have been other schools 
organized from time to time which have made their own proper con- 
tribution to the cause. Most important of the outside agencies 
contributing to this end was the Peabody education fund, through 
which for a number of years pupils were sent regularly from Alabama 
to the Peabody Normal College in Nashville, Tenn., for a thorough 
course of pedagogical training. In 1882 the Peabody fund estab- 
lished 16 Peabody scholarships in the normal school at Florence, 
for which they paid $2,000. In 1885-86, besides the $2,000 con- 
tributed for scholarships at Nashville and a similar amount to the 
school at Florence, the fund appropriated $300 each to the normal 
schools at Jacksonville and Huntsville, $400 to that at Normal and 
$300 to the Peabody school district. In 1886-87 and later years 
both the amount and direction of this donation varied from time to 
tune. At the time that the Peabody board was supplementing 
pubUc funds by sending prospective teachers to Nashville, the State 
was encouraging the private organization of teachers' institutes in 
the counties. Says the State superintendent in his report for 1878-79 : 

These institutes have been organized in nearly every county in the State. They 
are generally well attended. In addition to the awakening of new interest among 
teachers, these institutes promise to be the means of uniforming and improAdng 
methods of instruction and discipLlne in the schools, with a general approach to 
uniformity in textbooks. 



158 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

In 1879-80 there were 115 institutes held, but unfortunately they 
were massed in about half the counties, while the other half had 
none. In 1880-81 the number was 89; the next year there were 
122; and up to this time they had been purely voluntary organiza- 
tions. The superintendent now recommended that they be taken 
over by the State and supported out of a fund raised by taking $100 
from the school fund iu each coimty. They were to cover a month 
in time and be estabhshed for each race. As a result of this agitation, 
a law was passed about 1884-85 which provided that teachers' insti- 
tutes should be held m each county. The county superintendent 
was made the responsible officer and every licensed teacher was 
required to attend. For the year 1885-86 the Peabody fund con- 
tributed $500 to their support and lent them the dignity of its name. 
Later the financial responsibHity was shared by the State, and as 
many as eight white and five colored institute conductors were in the 
field in 1891, when the Peabody fund donated $3,500 to the work. 
In 1892, 1893, and 1894 they were conducted by congressional dis- 
tricts, because the county unit had been found too small. In 1894-95 
the reports show that the Peabody contributions had been transferred 
to the regular normal schools, and, whUe the State appropriation for 
iQstitutes remained on the statute books, it was no longer available, 
being conditioned on a similar sum from the Peabody trustees. The 
responsibihty for the institutes was thus thrown back, under the law, 
upon the county superintendents, and with the rise of the State 
normal schools they became for a time of less and less significance. 
In 1903-4 it was said that, while three or four mstitutes were held a year 
in each county, they were not meeting the purpose for which intended. 

In 1911 a new institute law was passed. It provided $5,000 for 
institutes to be held one week in each county under the direction of 
paid expert directors. All teachers except those holding hfe certifi- 
cates were required to attend, and their purpose was declared to be — 

to provide some professional training and instruction to that large body of the teaching 
force who have not had the privilege of receiving professional training in normal 
schools or the teacher-training department of other higher institutions. 

For the use of negro institutes, located at given centers, $1,000 
was provided. 

Other organizations, private in origin and character, but con- 
tributing to the upbuilding of schools, are the Alabama teachers' 
associations. The white teachers had been first organized in 1856 as 
the Alabama Educational Association. They had annual meetings 
and supported a school journal, but hke most other things educa- 
tional went down in the mad storm of war. There was a temporary 
revival in 1871, but the time was not ripe. In July, 1882, in Birming- 
ham, the organization was revived under the name, Alabama 
Teachers' Association. Curiously enough, the colored teachers were 
organized that year for the first time as the Alabama State Teachers' 



NORMAL SCHOOLS AND OTHER NORMAL AGENCIES. 159 

Association. As a result of this similarity in name, the white teachers 
soon went back to their original name and are now known as the 
Alabama Educational Association. Through this association the 
teachers are now thoroughly organized, they have annual meetings, 
their proceedings are pubhshed in large volumes, and much discussion 
takes place covering many phases of modern education. The asso- 
ciation has served a useful purpose in bringing the teachers from 
different sections of the State together, has made better acquainted 
those who have to deal with different phases of the same problems, 
and is fostering a much closer correlation of educational forces than 
has hitherto been known in the history of the State. It is by no 
means an unimportant adjunct to the work of the normal schools. 

Still another agency in the training of teachers, one which supple- 
ments the normal school, the teachers' institute, and the teachers' 
association, because it can be brought into use at any time and place, 
is the teachers' reading circle. In his report for 1882-83 the State 
superintendent reports the organization of the Alabama Teachers' 
Reading Circle, whose object was "to induce aU teachers to pursue a 
four years' course of reading, specially selected so as to be of the 
greatest benefit to them." But this movement did not last long, 
and in 1893 agitation was renewed. At a meeting of the Alabama 
Educational Association held in Montgomery that year, such an 
organization was proposed. The next year it was stated that there 
was already a Teachers' Lyceum, and it was resolved that the "asso- 
ciation indorse this lyceum movement, adopt it as our official reading 
circle, and urge its organization in every part of our State." But the 
movement seemed to have been premature, and little came of it. 
In 1908 its revival was proposed by C. W. Daugette; organization 
was effected in 1909. The books selected for the first year's reading 
were: Philfips's Old Tales and Modern Ideals; Kern's Among Country 
Schools; and Button's School Management. It was reported at the 
end of the first year that 40 counties had been organized and 2,000 
copies of the above books bought. A Young Peoples' Circle was 
added m 1910. A smaU Hbrary of 28 volumes, costing $10, was 
adopted for the elementary grades, while one of 13 volumes, costing 
$5, was selected for the high schools. After the passage of the rural 
library law in 1911, a working arrangement with the new organiza- 
tion was effected, and the two have since developed in harmony, each 
strengthening the other. In 1912-13 there were 2,967 white teachers 
and 427 colored teachers who secured and read the three books 
prescribed for this course of professional reading. The increase of 
teachers taking this work among the whites was 10 per cent and 
among the colored 21 per cent. "This remarkable showing is a 
development of scarcely more than three years. It developed from 
a begiiuiing so small three years ago as to be almost a neghgible 
number," says the State superintendent. 

In 1913-14 the white teachers who were following the reading 
course numbered 3,937; the negro teachers numbered 345. 



160 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Still another aid in the training of teachers may be mentioned 
here. The educational press had its origin in Alabama in the 
Southern Educational Journal and Family Magazine, edited and 
published by F. H. Brooks, in Mobile, in 1843 and 1844. It was 
short-lived, apparently, only six monthly numbers appearing, the 
last of them being for March, 1844. It was a magazine of general 
educational information and had little direct application to Alabama 
beyond advertising a series of Alabama readers and other books 
used in the primary schools of the day. 

After the suspension of Brooks's Southern Educational Journal 
there was a blank until Gen. Perry established his Alabama Edu- 
cational Journal, which was published at Montgomery from Janu- 
ary 1, 1857, to September, 1859, making two volumes, one in quarto 
and one in octavo form. It was semipopular in character, and its 
value has been considered already in the chapter on the work of 
Gen. Perry and Capt. Duval. Its place was supplied by the Southern 
Teacher, "a journal of school and home education," which was 
published at Montgomery by W. S. Barton, July, 1859, to April, 1861, 
or later. It was the desire of the editor to become a sort of connec- 
tional educational organ for the South as a whole, but his ambition 
was stilled by war. 

In April, 1871, Col. Joseph Hodgson, then State superintendent, 
established the Alabama Journal of Education. It was merged 
the same year into the Alabama Educational Magazine and this 
into a paper called the Advance. 

Then came the Alabama Progress, established in Montgomery by 
George P. Keyes, and first issued March 18, 1882. It became the 
"official journal of education" for the department and was "sus- 
pended for a few weeks" August 25, 1883. It had been very general 
in character and had many features of a newspaper. Then came in 
May, 1885, the Alabama Teachers' Journal, published first at Hunts- 
ville, later at Montgomery. It was edited by J. A. B. Lovett and 
was more strictly professional in character. It completed its fourth 
volume with September, 1889. No other volumes were published, 
apparently. It is evident that Alabama was not yet productive 
soil for educational publications. But the times were improving. 
In April, 1889, J. H. Phillips and others began the Educational 
Exchange, in Birmingham. It was published from that city through 
1891, then removed to Montgomery and continued under the direc- 
tion of J. M. Dewberry. It was taken back to Birmingham in 1895 
and has since then been published there. It is now issued by the 
Educational Exchange Co., and having completed its twenty-eighth 
annual volume may be counted as a fixture. 

The most important data connected with the normal schools now 
in existence is given in the following table by five-year periods, 
1872-73 to 1912-13. It shows that their influence and usefulness 
is increasing with the development of the State. 



NOEMAL SCHOOLS AND OTHER NORMAL AGENCIES, 161 

Statistics of Alabama normal schools, 1872-73 to 1912-13. 



Schools. 


Teach- 
ers. 


Stu- 
dents. 


Nor- 
mal 
stu- 
dents. 


Gradu- 
ates. 


Vol- 
umes 
in li- 
brary. 


Value of 
equip- 
- ment. 


Income, 

all 
sources. 


Total 
ex- 
pend i- 
tiu-es. 


1872-73: 


4 


80 
57 


10 












Hnntsville^ 








-SI, 000 
1,2.50 

■5,000 
1,169 
2,850 


















1877-78: 


4 
2 
4 


147 


47 








$5,000 










1,103 




129 

184 
268 
211 
126 

218 
176 
126 
439 
302 
525 
358 

300 
135 
131 
382 
306 
919 
859 

314 
197 
183 
578 
458 
1,047 
808 

354 
388 
374 
340 
468 
1,497 
1,050 

352 
405 
275 
398 
90 
267 
1,574 
1,010 

575 

561 

402 

329 

200 

70 

343 

2,600 

1,185 










2,850 


1882-83: 


92 










Huntsville. . 


4 








2,939 
8,027 
2,727 

10, 661 
5, 250 
2,500 
4,200 


2,784 


Marion . . .... 


133 








7,921 




4 








2,442 


1887-88: 

Florence 


178 








10,325 


Jacksonville * . . 


8 
5 
4 




1,000 




5,110 




37 
80 
135 
425 






2,500 


Troy 6 






$17,000 


4,200 




6 






Tuskegee 


24 
3 


1,800 


76,060 


22, 328 
3,000 

9,000 
4,154 
3,638 
7,600 
26, 750 
64,000 
10,000 

16, 122 
4,086 
3,491 

10,595 

3.3,500 
107, 488 

14,325 

12,926 
9,131 
9,134 

11,615 

15,785 
169,609 

15,500 

20,921 
19,510 
19,300 
21,655 


19,328 


Montgomery ' 


3,000 


1892-93: 










8,822 


Jacksonville 




42 
44 








4,136 


Livingston 8 


14 
13 

22 








2,319 


Troy 










Huntsville » 


'"'794' 
272 

225 
52 

76 

""m 
"477' 



349 

320 
402 
224 
95 
29 
156 
763 
388 


18 




35, 226 
200,000 


26, 603 


Tuskegee s 




Montgomery * 










1897-98: 

Florence 


10 
7 

11 
23 
34 
88 
26 

9 

8 
23 
12 

7 


41 
11 
24 
23 
77 
30 
8 

52 

12 
8 

10 
148 
124 

13 

30 

22 
14 
24 
3 

77 
84 
22 

39 

14 

43 

26 

9 

3 

37 

184 

30 




6,050 
2,500 
2,250 
4,000 
1,000 

100 

9,000 

20,0.56 

400 


56,000 
10,250 
14,000 
22, 500 
45, 000 
.300,000 
35,000 

50,000 
53, 250 
16, 600 
38, 400 
76,037 
572, 599 
47,600 

62,000 
47,500 
52,000 
43, 750 
28, 050 
97, 445 
956,580 
50,500 

16.5,000 
56, 000 
125,000 
57,000 
3.5,000 
6,500 
155,000 
1,371,527 
70,000 


14,587 


Jacksonville 


4,020 


Livingston 


2,388 


Troy 


9,910 


Normal 9 


11,257 


Tuskegee 


89,358 


Montgomery 


14,325 


1902-3: 

Florence 


13,252 


Jacksonville 


8,612 


Livingston 


8,148 


Troy 


12,044 


Normal 


15, 104 


Tuskegee 


169, 609 


Montgomery 




15,000 


1907-8: 

Florence 


13 
19 
16 
13 
3 


20,921 


Jacksonville 


19,077 


Livingston 


20,434 


Troy 


18, 851 


Daphne i" 


2,500 


Normal 


18, 749 

260,013 

16,457 

90,305 

29,028 

30,179 

29,245 

6,202 

5,478 

38,681 

388,033 

21,183 


18, 749 


Tuskegee 




252, 708 


Montgomery 


27 

20 
18 
18 
19 
9 
7 
28 
190 
37 


16, 457 


1912-13: 

Florence 


88,965 


Jacksonville 


29,007 


Livingston 


26,488 


Troy 


29,245 


Daphne 


6, 172 


ATnnnrlvillell , . 


12 5,161 


Normal 


38,632 


Tuskegee 


388,033 


Montgomery 


21,170 







•For white men, organized in 1872; later, coeducational. 

' For negroes, organized in 1871; coeducational. 

s For negroes, organized July 4, 1881, with 30 pupils. 

* For white men, organized 1883; later, coeducational. 

6 For white women, organized 1883; all other normal schools are now coeducational. 

6 For white men, organized 1887; later, coeducational. 

' Transferred by I'^gislature about 1886 from Marion and reestablished as Alabama Colored People's 
University, at Montgomery. Act declared unconstitutional; reestablished by act of r"eb. 23, 1889, as the 
Montgomery State Normal School for Colored StudentSi 

8 Report for 1893-94; that for 1892-93 not given. 

9 For negroes, formerly called Huntsville. 
10 Organized in 1907; coeducational. 

M Organized 1907-8. 

12 See act of Apr. 14, 1911. Sess. Laws, 1911, p. 417. 



75075°— 15 11 



162 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

II. CITY SCHOOLS. 

The organization and development of city schools in Alabama harks 
back to Mobile. As we have already seen, it was in that city that 
the pubhc-school system had its birth and earliest development. 
There experiments began in 1826 and had a slow and unsatisfactory 
evolution until 1852, when the school law was revised, and there was 
a real renaissance of pubhc-school interest. The schools were then 
reorganized, developed more civic interest, took on new hfe, and 
were approaching the modern ideal of pubhc schools supported by 
all and free to all. This explains why the Mobile organization was 
the only city system before the war and hence far ahead of the rest 
of the State. It obtained such a hold on the popular favor that it 
stood the stress of civil war, did not suspend operations till the spring 
of 1865, and was soon after reorganized. 

Then came reconstruction, when it lost its distinctive organization 
and was absorbed into the State system. The constitution of 1875 
restored its ancient privileges and enacted the provision that in 
matters of education the new constitution should apply to it — 

only so far as to authorize and require the authorities designated by law to draw the 
portion of the funds to which said county will be entitled for school purposes, and to 
make reports to the superintendent of education as may be prescribed by law. 

The article on taxation prescribed further that Mobile might until 
1879 levy 1 per cent on valuation and after that three-quarters of 
1 per cent "to pay the expense of the city government." This was 
one-quarter of 1 per cent more than other cities might levy; so that 
there were more funds available for the school. This provision for 
the three-quarters of 1 per cent was brought over into the new con- 
stitution of 1901. That instrument provided also that three-quarters 
of 1 per cent might be levied (the general limit of municipal taxation 
being one-half of 1 per cent) by Decatur, New Decatur, and Cullman, 
to be used for public schools and public school buildings. No other 
cities were allowed to levy such special taxes, and as we have aheady 
seen, the help that has come to the cities in the matter of pubhc- 
school tax has not come through granting the taxing power direct 
to the school. 

There were a few acts passed in reconstruction days which looked 
to a practical extension of the MobUe idea of differentiating city 
schools from the other parts of the pubhc-school system of the State. 
In 1870 acts were passed by the board of education, then the legisla- 
tive as well as the executive power in school matters, which gave 
separate official organization to the school of Montgomery and 
Sehna. In 1872 Opehka, Eufaula, and Birmingham were added to 
the list, and in 1874 Huntsville and Dadeville. These acts defined 
the boundaries of the districts, and by separating them from the 



CITY SCHOOLS. 163 

siiiTOunding territory gave them opportunity for a greater individu- 
ality and independent development. From 1871-72 accounts of 
these schools occur with more or less regularity and fullness in the 
reports of the State superintendent. In the reports for 1871-72 and 
1872-73 Montgomery and Selma appeared; in 1873-74 Birmingham 
and Eufaula were added to the hst, and in 1874-75 Huntsville 
appeared, making five cities that received special treatment. It will 
be noticed that Mobile is not included in these separate reports. In 
fact the semi-independence of Mobile, while making greatly for the 
advantage of her schools, has seriously mihtated against the com- 
pleteness of the State reports. 

With the reorganization that foUowed the adoption of the new 
constitution in 1875, these special city systems were retained. 
Oxmoor was soon added to the hst, the whole system was brought 
over mto the new code of 1876, and Marion was added by the act of 
February 5, 1877. It will be noted that none of the special acts 
passed during the reconstruction regime contained the provision for 
special taxation. But this provision appears in the act creating the 
Oxmoor school district, the first of these acts passed under the Demo- 
cratic regime. It is significant that this act, apparently the first 
relating to education, passed under the new constitution, should also 
be the first to voice the necessity for local taxation. This is now 
nearly 40 years since. Educational leaders, ideahsts, and men of 
action thought it necessary then. How much more is it needed now! 

Under these acts the separate districts were allowed by the law 
creating them to have their proper share of the sixteenth-section and 
State funds. They were given their own separate organization and 
so made free in the matter of administration from the Hmitation of 
the old township system. They thus secured needed flexibility and 
freedom of movement, and so useful was this separate organization 
that the creation of separate school districts grew rapidly. In the 
nineties more than 50 such districts were created at a single session, 
and in 1903Jihe old township system for school purposes was entirely 
abolished. 

The one thing which differentiated the separate districts, developed 
first in the towns and later extended to the country, was the greater 
flexibility and freedom of action. There was another reason which 
made for their organization in the earlier years. This was the hope 
of using them as a basis for local taxation. Beginning with Oxmoor 
in 1875 and extending to the Birmingham act of February 18, 1895, 
the cities, towns, and separate districts through their special organi- 
zation have tried hard to secure the right of local taxation. Numer- 
ous special school charters were passed with this provision inserted, 
but the unincorporated places went down, in the CuUman case 
(Schultes V. Eberly, 82 Alabama) and the cities and towns in the 



164 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IIST ALABAMA. 

Bmningham case (State of Alabama v. Southern Railway, 115 
Alabama, 250). Nor was the right of local taxation for education 
recognized by the constitution of 1901. They have ceased to try to 
obtain results along those lines, having been entirely blocked by the 
courts. In 1903 there was passed a law which provided that munici- 
pahties might purchase school property and erect school buildings. 
This act carried with it the power to levy a tax of 25 cents on the 
hundred, provided their whole tax did not exceed the constitutional 
hmit of 50 cents on the hundred. It does not appear that any test 
case involving the validity of this act has ever come before the 
courts.^ It might also be pertinently asked if the same funds could 
not have been raised under the general municipal power to tax and 
thus have avoided the risk of an unfavorable decision. It is probable, 
however, that the main purpose of this law was to give the cities power 
to make appropriations for this particular purpose after the money 
was raised. 

In general the coui-se of the evolution of the various city systems 
has been the same. In most cases, certainly as far as the older towns 
are concerned, the public schools have grown up out of various private 
academies, in whose hands the subject of education was left in earher 
days. As the municipality grew in strength and social consciousness, 
the functions of education were gradually taken over. In some 
instances the board of trustees of the private academy was made by 
law the board for the new city system. In some cases it was put 
under the care of a special board ; in others it became the care of the 
mayor and aldermen, and to these boards were given the power 
usually exercised by boards of education. 

Funds were secured in various ways. The acts creating special 
school districts provided that they should receive their pro rata of 
the sixteenth section of State school funds ; there were some private 
contributions; there were others from the town or county, or both, 
and when aU of these failed to produce enough to meet necessary 
expenses, tuition fees were charged. For this reason the.city schools 
in particular, like the State public schools in general, have not been 
always free, but have attained this goal only by slow stages as the 
towns are themselves able to increase their appropriations. 

It will be noted also that these city appropriations have come from 
the general city budget, not from taxes levied for schools, for this 
was declared unconstitutional under the organic instrument adopted 
in 1875, nor had the current set itself sufficiently strong toward 
education to place such a provision in the constitution of 1901. These 
schools are now reaching a crisis. They must have more money. 

1 Hon. Robert C. Brickell, attorney general of Alabama writes: "I find that the act has been carried 
into the Code of 1907, and is now section 1458 of said code. This section is substantially the same as the 
act of October 6, 1903, with the exception that the tax of one-fourth of 1 per cent may be levied, provided 
such municipality shall not exceed its constitutional limit of taxation." 



CITY SCHOOLS. 165 

Notwithstanding the fact that the cities have not been able to give 
their schools the funds needed for their proper development because 
of these constitutional limitations, it does not take a very detailed 
examination of the school reports to see that they are steadily forging 
ahead of the country districts. There are various reasons for this, 
most of which are inherent in the fundamental distinction between 
city and country. The city has a larger and more closely knit 
population. If not more homogeneous, it is more aggressively 
aware of its educational needs, and larger schools make possible a 
better school organization. Then, municipal progress is greater, 
because cities are generally more wilhng to tax themselves up to the 
limit and city property is both more compact and greater in amount. 
The constitutional limit of taxation was the same in either case (50 
cents on the hundred) until the constitution of 1901 permitted the 
counties to levy an extra 10 cents, but notwithstanding this advantage 
the cities have more than held their own as reports on income and the 
length of the school term will indicate. 

It does not seem desirable to enter into any extensive survey 
of the fortune of the schools of particular towns, yet a paragraph 
or two in this direction wiU not be out of place. 

As already seen, the schools of Montgomery and Selma were pro- 
vided for in 1870, and their reports date from 1871-72. Acts for 
Opehka, Eufaula, and Birmingham were passed in 1872, and their 
reports appear for 1873-74. HuntsviUe and Dadeville began in 
1874, and since then the organization and development of city (or 
separate district) systems has been more or less regular, and has been 
carried on in more recent years at an increasing rate. 

Under the present law the city schools are divided into four classes: 
Class A, those of 25,000 inhabitants or over, includes Birmingham, 
Mobile, and Montgomery; class B, those with between 5,000 and 
25,000 inhabitants, includes ten cities; class C, those of between 1,000 
and 5,000 inhabitants, has 66 cities and towns; class D, includes aU 
incoi-porated places of less than 1,000 inhabitants, and numbers 164 
towms and villages. So useful has this classification proved to be 
that school districts with an enroUment of less than 100 pupils are 
found on the hst. Of the cities in class A, Mobile has already been 
discussed at length in this bulletin. Montgomery had her system 
reorganized in 1882, and at that time did not own a school building 
or have any equipment worthy of the name. Its em-oUment was 
about 700 pupils; three years later these had increased to 1,730 
pupils taught in five schools. In 1912-13 her enrollment was 4,934, 
and the total expenditures were $92,124. 

But like a chapter from the Arabian Nights is the story of the rise 
of Birmingham, the new iron and steel center of the South. The 
town itself does not antedate the Civil War. In 1873 it was visited 



166 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA, 

by an epidemic of cholera. Values were destroyed and the town 
almost depopulated. There was pinching poverty, sorrow, and 
despair. Out of these misfortunes came the efforts to organize a 
public school system in October, 1873, under the law of 1872. Col. 
J. T. Terry took the lead in raising the necessary money for a school 
building, and the land for the same was donated by Col. James R. 
Powell, for the Ely ton Land Co. The schools were finally opened 
in March, 1874, and in the next nine years had eight superintendents. 
In 1883 they reorganized the system and appointed a new super- 
intendent. When he, the ninth in hneal succession, took charge 
in 1883-84, there were 1,620 pupils of school age, with 14 schools 
and 16 teachers; the total enrollment was 967, and the average 
attendance was 510. The total expense for teachers that year was 
$1,290. For the year 1912-13 the corresponding figm'es were: 
School population, 43,659; schools, 62; teachers, 609; enrollment, 
25,320; average attendance, 17,883; amount paid to teachers, 
$369,749; while the total expenditures were $511,766. This im- 
mense growth for the last 30 years has been under the administrative 
direction of a single superintendent, John H. Philhps, who has seen 
the school system develop from frail and weak begimiings into its 
present strength. This development has not always been along 
lines of pleasantness. The opposition was sometimes strong and 
frequently aggressive, but out of it all the schools have at last emerged 
strong and vigorous. Based on safe and sure foundations, they 
are now ready for a wider field of usefuhiess, which will come only 
when the city has authority to give her schools the funds which she 
is anxious to levy for their use, but which she is as yet forbidden to 
levy by a too conservative constitution. 

It has not seemed proper to trace further the educational history 
of particular cities, but to give instead the statistics of the educa- 
tional growth of the older cities and towns by five-year periods 
beginning with 1872-73. From such a table we can see the gradual 
growth of educational facihties and so compare them with corre- 
sponding figures for the State as a whole. It is evident, first of all, 
that these statistics are very incomplete. But, assuming that] 
they furnish a fairly accurate picture, is there any conclusion which j 
may be drawn ? 

If we examine the statistics of school population, enrollment,! 
and average attendance, we are struck by the small increase of 
attendance over 40 years ago. From this standpoint, measured] 
in terms of average attendance only, it would appear that some ofl 
these schools are not now more efficient than in earUer days. While j 
they have been able to do well by the children in actual attendance,j 
their per cent of social efficiency is lowered du'ectly as they havel 
failed to secure the enrollment and attendance of all the children ofl 



CITY SCHOOLS. 



167 



school age. In this respect the efficiency of the city school is but 
Uttle better than that of the State as a whole, for we find that while 
the average attendance in Birmingham (40.8 per cent) and Mont- 
gomery (37.5 per cent) was larger in 1912-13 than the State average 
in 1911-12 (34.9 per cent), the attendance of Florence, HimtsviUe, 
Sehna, and Tuscaloosa was less, and with this low attendance, 
reacliing in no other city as much as the Birmingham average of 
40.8 per cent, what becomes of the excellent school terms of these 
cities extending from 174 to 180 days? It means that the average 
length of the most efficient of them is really only 40.8 per cent of 
176 days, or the equivalent of 71.81 days. It would, perhaps, be 
impossible to present a more eloquent argument for compulsory 
attendance. 

In the matter of accommodations, most of the cities are woefully 
lacking, some of them having less than 50 per cent of the seating 
capacity that a compulsory-attendance law would require. This 
means that little additional progress in the city systems can be 
expected until a constitutional amendment permits a special school 
tax to provide funds for the greater accommodations and increased 
equipment needed to provide for the new pupils that will be brought 
into the schools under any compulsory-attendance law. 

City school statistics, J 872-73 to 1912-13. 



Cities. 



1872-73: 

Birmingham 

Euiaula 

Huntsville - 

Montgomei-y 

Selma 

1877-78: 

Birmingham 

Eufaula 

Huntsville 

Montgomery 

Selma 

1882-83: 

Birmingham 

Eufaula 

Huntsville 

Mobile (County).. 

Montgomery 

Selma 



\ 



1497 
1784 
1,653 
3,327 

1,475 

386 
1,015 
1,283 
3,004 
1,736 

1,057 
1,104 
1,615 
23, 865 
3,793 
2,021 

3,261 
498 
1,219 
1,888 
27,264 
3,670 
2,476 
1,936 

1 Figures for 1873-74. 

2 Figures for 1874-75. 



Birmingham 

Decatur 

Eufaula 

Huntsville 

Mobile (County). 

Montgomery 

Selma 

Tuscaloosa 



2 266 

2 252 

455 

2 1,120 

2 830 

268 
204 
378 



922 

500 
350 
344 
6,924 
1,626 
746 

2,156 
411 
452 
520 



1,543 
891 
679 



2 247 
2 148 
403 
2 880 
2 410 

182 
160 
286 



596 

454 
240 
262 
5,590 
1,385 
597 

1,425 
175 
-200 
380 



631 
441 



i$414 
1653 
2,265 
3,743 
1,659 

303 

956 

1,151 

2,870 

1,584 

629 

657 

961 

14,133 

2,257 

1,203 

79, 735 

4,373 

1,199 

4,016 

18, 808 

21, 862 

10,811 

25, 603 



2 $1,260 

2 850 

3,880 

2 9, 336 

2 11,450 

746 

775 

1,260 



1,409 

2,095 
800 
1,175 
49, 522 
3,520 
1,667 

62,886 
4,033 
1,199 
4,117 

48,190 

21,385 
9,423 

25, 587 



2 160 

2 92 

170 

2 164 

2 204 

157 
86 
130 



240 

200 
140 
160 
146 
180 
200 

180 
200 
192 
180 



170 
170 
160 



37 



38 



S "^ 



2 $38. 75 
2 35. 41 

50.00 

62.78 
2 77. 04 

3177.29 
3 106. 25 

3 161.00 



3 77. 60 

453 "^0 
■< 30. 00 
M5.00 

4 43. 00 
4 62. 00 
i 85. 41 

^ 53. 90 
4 50. 25 
437.50 
4 43. 00 
40.08 



4 72. 72 
4 42. 50 



3 a 



« White teachers, presumably for the year. 
* White teachers, per month. 



168 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

City school statistics, 1872-73 to 1912-13— Contimied. 



Cities. 


e3 


o 

u 

o 

1 


X) 

a 

o 
o 

.a 

o 


<B 

i 


.9 



'0 

a> . 
as 

■4.3 



1 



CO 


i 

.B 

a 


1 

1 

<B 

2 


.a 

1 

be 
1 


is 

> 03 




.a 

^% 

p. 



> 


1893-94: i 

Birmingham 


10, 124 


4,194 


2,936 


$64,395 


$50,548 


85 


177 










Decatur 










Eufaula 


316 

1,884 


250 

723 

6,645 


198 
560 

5,287 


5,521 

3,586 

82, 556 

24,314 

21,017 

3,800 

3 6, 771 
3 605 
3 1,132 
3 1,672 
3 17,451 
3 3,801 
3 2,477 
1,532 

3 8,060 
3 19,051 
3 1,497 
3 2,596 
3 3,086 
3 3,855 
3 25,720 
39,553 
3 5,965 
3 3,654 

18,947 

105,573 

6,917 

7,291 

6,980 

8,127 

172,885 

61,329 

29,073 

13,974 

24,383 

511,766 

8,512 

8,300 

11,379 

17,021 

107,969 

93, 652 

37,173 

34,727 


6,521 
5,120 
81,651 
24,314 
18, 801 
3,789 


2 

2 

105 


180 
160 
161 






2 $48. 00 
241.43 
2 45. 91 




Huntsville 








Mobile (County) 


130 


61 




Montgomery 

Selma 


5,198 
2,805 
1,936 

9,275 
829 
1,550 
2,290 
24,043 
5,207 
3,393 
2,098 

5,335 
11,009 
921 
1,793 
2,231 
2,561 
20,276 
5,312 
4,318 
2,320 

4,680 
13,858 
1,416 
1,887 
2,054 
2,440 
21,821 
9,820 
4,336 
2,943 




1,092 
348 


'"'225' 


3 
2 


160 
158 






2 78.30 




Tuscaloosa 








1897-98: 

Birmingham 










Decatur 




























































Mobile (County) 

Montgomery 

Selma 


6,450 






101 


158 


135 


52 


2 48. 39 
























Tuscaloosa 




















1902-3: 

Anniston 


859 


550 


9,590 


3 








250.00 




Birmingham 

Decatur 




























Eufaula 


653 

'""soi' 

7,848 
2,861 


470 

972 

611 

6,338 

2,462 


7,186 
6,219 

"38,'866' 


3 
3 
2 
111 
10 




.... 




245.00 
240.00 
235.00 
250.00 
2 62.00 




Florence 




Huntsville 










Mobile (County) ... 
Montgomery 


<158 


159 


59 














Tuscaloosa 


715 

1,527 

7,322 

645 

624 

902 

1,154 

10,676 

4,650 

1,265 

1,114 

1,615 

25,320 

695 

723 

922 

1,197 

4,639 

4,934 

1,553 

1,497 


468 

1,090 
5,129 
396 
459 
628 
809 

"3,'386' 

1,037 

726 

1,189 

17,833 

502 

530 

627 

728 

4,088 

3,561 

1,146 

878 














1906-7: 5 

Anniston 


18,942 

105,366 

6,516 

7,023 

6,980 

8,127 

161,094 

61,294 

15,263 

13, 421 

24,191 

511,766 

8,164 

8,300 

11,049 

16,997 

107,969 

92, 124 

31,559 

33, 916 


6 
13 
2 
3 
4 
3 
122 
14 
3 
3 

7 
62 
2 
3 
4 
4 

14 
14 
5 
5 








2 62. 24 
2 75.64 
2 56.11 
2 63. 08 
2 47. 42 
259.00 
U09.00 




Birmingham 


















Eufaula 










Florence 










Huntsville 










Mobile (County) 6 




192 


56 




Montgomery 




Selma 












Tuscaloosa 












1912-13: 8 

Anniston 


177 
176 
180 
180 
180 
180 
174 
180 
180 
176 


29 
486 
10 
10 
19 
17 
119 
73 
24 
28 


7 

123 

5 

4 

3 

11 

33 

35 

9 

10 


'125.40 
7153.60 
'166.66 
7150.00 
7146.66 
'140.66 
7157.00 
'195.22 
7181.89 
'159.00 


$102,000 


Birmingham 

Decatur 


43,659 


1,686,037 
32,500 


Eufaula 




18,500 


Florence 


2,141 
2,200 


27,500 


Huntsville 


60,000 


Mobile (City) 


424,500 


Montgomery 

Selma 


9,504 
3,404 
3,498 


533,275 
109,000 


Tuscaloosa 


101,200 







1 Figures for 1892-93 not available. 

2 White teachers, per month. 

3 From State funds only. 

4 For white schools. 



» Figures for 1907-8 not available. 
6 For 1907-8. 

' White male teachers only. 
8 Includes high schools. 



III. NEGRO SCHOOLS. 

The organization of the pubUc schools for negroes is closely con- 
nected with the history of the corresponding white schools. 

Before the Civil War there were in the South no schools, as such, 
for negroes, but it would be a mistake to assume that negroes received 
no education. They did receive an educational training which was 
excellent in character, extensive in amount, and suited to their condi- 
tion of hfe. They were sometimes taught to read, write, and cipher; 



NEGEO SCHOOLS. 169 

but they were particularly taught to shoe a horse, to weave cloth, 
and make clothes for themselves, to build houses, and to work along 
similar lines. Their training, beyond the rudiments — and these 
were most often absent — was strictly industrial and of the very sort 
to make them most seH-sustaining and independent when the end 
of the war brought freedom and the necessity of seK-dependence. 
It seems perfectly safe to say that of all the property accumu- 
lated by this race since the war, the greater part is traceable 
directly to the industrial training which they had received in the 
days of slavery. It is also worthy of note that the best educational 
thought of to-day, not among white educators only, but among lead- 
ing negro educators as well, is that this industrial education is what 
the negro needs for his best development. The presidents of the 
negro normal schools in Alabama — W. B. Paterson, Wilham H. Coun- 
cil, and Booker T. Washington — have all held conspicuously to this 
view. 

With the coming of the Federal armies into Alabama came the 
Federal school-teacher. He — more generally and correctly speaking, 
she — was filled with enthusiasm for the slave, but ignorance of the 
situation made many of these teachers think that the prevailing 
forms of education were all that was needed to accomphsh the im- 
possible and set the former slave on the seat of equahty with the 
former master. For this reason institutions of the orthodox type, 
where Latin, Greek, and higher mathematics were offered to the ex- 
slaves in lieu of the homely training needed to make them and their 
children masters of the economic situation in which they found 
themselves, sprang up over the State under the direction of mis- 
sionary societies and the Freedmen's Bureau. It would be unjust 
to say that these schools produced no good results, but at best the 
amount of good work actually accomplished is small when compared 
with the results that might have been obtained had they been started 
in the right direction. 

In the meantime the natural leaders of Alabama were not blind to 
the situation created by the collapse of the Confederacy and the free- 
ing of the slaves. Already there has been given a long list of lead- 
ers — natives and ex-Confederates — who, immediately alter the war, 
advocated the education of the negro. The board of education of the 
city of Mobile had actually begun its work of educating the negro 
before reconstruction was old enough to act. In June, 1868, it had 
four pubUc schools for negro children, with an attendance of 919, and 
a fifth school was organized during the autumn of that year. 

The negro schools, first organized as private philanthropy and 
financed by the Freedmen's Bureau or through contributions from 
the North, passed into the State public school system soon after its 
reorganization in the summer of 1868. Under a working arrange- 
ment with those interested, the schoolhouses then in use and the 

m 



170 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

teachers then employed became a part of the new system. The 
whole was administered as an integral part of the public schools and 
experienced about the same fortunes as those of the whites. This 
means that, while there was great clamor raised from time to time 
on their behalf, they were not entirely exempt from the difficulties 
which confronted all the schools of reconstruction times. Since 1875 
they have been on a safer and surer basis and have had a development 
not essentially unhke the schools for the whites. Funds are now 
distributed to the counties on the basis of school population; in so 
far as the State distribution to the counties is concerned, there is no 
distinction between races. 

The statistics for negro schools, so far as they can be differentiated 
in the public school reports, are presented with the other tables at 
the end of this bulletin. 

As we have seen, suitable and proper efforts were made during 
reconstruction to establish normal schools for negro teachers, and 
later came a series of teachers' institutes for the same purpose. Per- 
haps more attention was given to this phase of negro education than 
to any other, but there was still the tendency to evolve along the old 
orthodox lines. According to the State superintendent in 1876, for 
instance, the Normal School at Marion, successor to the Lincoln 
Memorial University there, was "so liberally endowed by the State 
and furnished with a competent faculty as to afford to the colored 
race opportunities for acquirement of collegiate and university 
education." This statement is substantiated by the subjects taught 
there in 1879-80: Orthography, reading, writing, arithmetic, geogra- 
phy, grammar, history, botany, drawing, composition, vocal music, 
physiology, zoology, rhetoric, algebra, geometry, physics, Latin, 
Greek, chemistry, and French. The next year they had added: 
Penmanship, physical geography, trigonometry, geology, logic, 
English literature, school economy, and philosophy of education. 

Witliin the next four years, however, this school, under the direc- 
tion of WilUam B. Paterson, began to develop the industrial feature 
of its work, and progress was made in that direction, but it was thought 
desirable to keep this iistitution more closely to normal and higher 
educational Hues, and on February 25, 1887, an act was passed ^ which 
provided for the removal of the Marion Normal to Montgomery 
and its reestablishment as the State Normal School and University 
for the Colored Race. It was conducted under these new auspices 
during the year 1887-88, and reached an enrollment of 358. With 
the second year it was organized into normal, preparatory, and 
industrial departments, and there was an enrollment of 500, but 
"no students presented themselves of sufficient attainments to profit 
by a college or university course of study." 

I Laws of 1886-87, p. 198. 



NEGRO SCHOOLS. 171 

The law under which the school had been removed and reorganized 
was challenged, however, and came before the courts in the case of 
Elsberry v. Seay (83 Alabama Reports, 614). It was pronounced 
unconstitutional because it failed to make the school subject to the 
official supervision of the State superintendent. The court declared, 
further, that since the new institution was not in the commonly 
accepted sense a part of the pubhc school system, the money '^set 
apart and appropriated from the school fund for the education of 
the colored people" for its support was ''an unauthorized perversion 
of the funds from their own proper use," and therefore again uncon- 
stitutional. 

As a result of tliis decision the school received for the year 1887-88, 
in addition to $500 from the Peabody fund, only $2,500 of the $7,500 
provided for its support by the State under the law of 1887, and 
during the year 1888-89 apparently received nothing at all from that 
source, although still conducted at Montgomery. A new law, passed 
February 23, 1889, again reorganized ''the State Normal School and 
University for Colored Students, now at Marion, Perry County," as the 
State Normal School for Colored Students. It was again located at 
Montgomery, and since then has had a more or less uniform devel- 
opment along normal and industrial lines. It is now receiving 
$16,000 per year from the State, and is more distinctly a State insti- 
tution than either of the others, as practically all its funds are of 
local origin. 

The other institution for negroes, which has its roots in the pe'riod 
of reconstruction and has evolved into a useful institution of the 
present day, is the normal school located at Huntsville, which is now 
known as the Huntsville State Colored Normal and Industrial School, 
with its post office at Normal, Ala. It began industrial work about 
1884 and remained legally a simple normal school until the act of 
February 13, 1891, became a law. In accord with this act, the Mor- 
rill fund was divided between the white and colored citizens in the 
proportion of 56.6 per cent to the white Alabama Polytechnic Insti- 
tute at Auburn and 43.4 per cent to the colored institution at Hunts- 
ville. Wilham H. Council was then at the head of the latter institu- 
tion and remained as such until his death. Under ]Mr. Council's 
direction the school did for the negroes of Alabama not only normal 
work, but also work along agiicultural, mechanical, and industrial 
lines, and between the work at Normal and that at Tuskegee, Ala- 
bama has now a position of unrivaled leadership in negro education 
in the South. The detailed statistics of growth of these institutions by 
five-year periods will be found in the section on normal schools. 

It is worthy of note also that the original act under which Tuskegee 
was established had only a normal school of the orthodox type in 
mind. The act of February 10, 1881, provided for "a normal school 



172 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

for the education of colored teachers," for the use of which $2,000 was 
set aside out of the funds coming to the colored children. 

This school was opened July 4, 1881, with 30 pupils. The courses 
as then offered were strictly preparatory and normal, but the trustees 
had brought to the school as principal a young teacher from Hampton 
Institute who was destined to help change the educational direction 
of the race and so bring it back toward the standard of antebellum 
training from which it was drifting. This young teacher was Booker 
T. Washington, "From the first we have striven to make this a 
normal and industrial school," says the superintendent in his third 
report, and development went on regularly on these lines till 1893 
(February 21), when a supplementary act was passed which broad- 
ened the scope of the institute to "the instruction of colored teachers 
and youth in the various common academic and coPegiate branches, 
the best methods of teaching the same, the best method of theoretical 
and practical industry in their application to agriculture and the 
mechanical arts." This act made the Tuskegee trustees an inde- 
pendent, self -perpetuating body, with large administrative powers. 
The State contribution to their work was raised to $3,000, and is 
now $4,500. 

Since that time, under the administration of Mr. Washington, the 
school has had a remarkable development. Its funds have been 
greatly increased by contributions from the Peabody and Slater 
funds, from the General Education Board, by money gifts from 
private individuals, and by public lands from the United States. 
At the present time the value of its plant equipment and its annual 
income are greater than those of any other institution in the State. 

IV. RURAL SCHOOLHOUSES, RURAL SUPERVISION AND SCHOOL- 
IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

The year 1907 will be marked in the history of Alabama public 
school edacation as one of the great years, for at that time the State 
took two steps forward by passing (Mar. 2, 1907) a State law for 
givuig aid to rural schoolhouses, and at the special legislative session 
in the summer (Aug. 7) another law which laid the foundations for 
county liigh schools. 

The schoolhouse law provided that $67,000 should be set apart 
annually out of the fund arising from the sale of fertihzer tags "for 
the purpose of aiding in the erection or the repairing of rural school- 
houses." Of tliis sum, $1,000 was for the use of each county. It 
was provided that none of it could be used in any incorporated place. 
The school district must raise in advance not less than $100, and 
when this had been done there was contributed out of the special 
fund provided by the State for the county not more than the sum 
raised by the district and in no case more than $200. It was required 



I 



RURAL SCHOOLHOUSES AND SUPERVISION. 173 

that these houses be erected on grounds of not less than 2 acres in 
extent and that they be deeded to the State. ^ 

Tlie result was mstantaneous ; from all over the State came reports 
of developing interest in schoolhouses. Many new ones were erected 
by means of this State aid; old ones were repaired, and in many cases, 
patrons and school officials being unwilling to surrender title to the 
property, erected new houses or enlarged and improved old ones out 
of private means. In some counties the number built or repaired by 
private means was as large as that from pubHc funds. 

The statistics on this subject for the last eight years, beginning 
wdth the year before the schoolhouse law was enacted and coming 
down to the present time, speak most eloquently of progress. 

The total number of rural communities thus aided in 1910-11 was 
1,293; in 1911-12 it was 1,393, and the total number was then 6,157. 
One aspect of this matter, however, is not so pleasing; by an examina- 
tion of the report for 1910-11, it will be seen that while most of the 
counties had gladly made use of their appropriations, others had used 
little or none of this fund. On October 1, 1911, 2 counties had more 
than $4,000 each to their credit; 4 had more than $3,000; 9 more than 
$2,000, and 16 more than $1,000. Of those counties, Mobile was 
prevented from acting by legal technicalities; the others ''taken as a 
whole * * * present about the poorest showing in the way of 
suitable rural school buildings of any counties in Alabama." Such 
was the judgment of the superintendent in 1910-11. According to 
the report for 1911-12, the same tendency seems to have been 
accentuated in those counties rather than amehorated. The coun- 
ties thus ''slow to take advantage of the provisions of tliis law" lie 
mainly wdtlun what is known in the State as the black belt. 

With few exceptions these same counties have not le\'ied the 1-mill county school 
tax. Having grown out of the habit of helping themselves in supporting their own 
schools, these counties are somewhat slow in spending their own money in order to 
receive the State's assistance in erecting better-built school buildings. 

It may be that while they own the larger part of the unexpended 
surplus derived from the State, they are unable in some locaUties to 
raise the necessary local funds to meet the State requirements. On 
this point the superintendent says in 1911-12: 

Very little money up to this time has been recommended by the county boards for 
use in either building or repairing schoolhouses for negroes. It is pleasing, however, 
to note an apparent disposition on the part of county boards to place this State aid in 
the future in a larger measure for the benefit of the negro schools. In the black-belt 
counties, where a large part of this fund remains unexpended, the schoolhouses are 
among the poorest in the State, except in the villages. The better class of negroes 
will not much longer be content to keep their families on these black-belt farms unless 
the county boards make provisions through the privileges of this law to let the State 
aid those negro communities for the education of their children. 

1 Law of Mar. 3, 1907, p. 174. 



174 



PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 



The report for 1912-13 shows that 326 schoolhouses received aid 
from the State to the amount of $51,402. They were located in 63 
coimties, and only 4 counties reported no money spent for school- 
houses. ''According to the reports of the several counties, however, 
there is yet a large number of rural schoolhouses uncomfortable, 
unfurnished, and whoUy unsuited for use." 

In 1913-14 the sum of $74,521 was expended in 65 counties. 

The growing influence of the law may be shown in a general way 
by the foUowing statistics of values: 

Value of public school property. 



Years. 


Value public schoolhouses. 


Value school furniture. 


Number schoolhouses 
uncomfortable in 
winter. 




White. 


Negro* 


Total. 


White. 


Negro. 


Total. 


White. 


Negro. 


Total. 


1906-7 


$1,831,462 
4,003,599 
4,217,045 
5,198,075 
6,149,413 
6, 475, 771 
6, 584, 452 
7,008,536 


$144,240 
303,310 
374,835 
432, 710 
533, a33 
589,548 
608,334 
666,850 


$1,975,702 
4,306,809 
4,591,880 
5,630,785 
6, 682, 446 
7,065,319 
7, 192, 786 
7,675,386 












901 


1907 81 








885 
688 
720 
665 
481 


741 
654 
781 
563 
561 


1,626 


1908-9 


459, 142 
581, 705 
516,303 
547,367 
624,322 
674,059 


74,095 
86, 515 
70,349 
59, 438 
69,388 
67,846 


533,237 
668, 220 
586, 652 
606, 795 
693, 710 
741,905 


1,342 


1909-10 


1,501 


1910-11 


1,228 


1911-12 


1,042 


1912-13 




1913-14 

















1 First year under new law. 

Another matter which has contributed to the advancement of the 
public rural schools, b}^ separating and individualizing their work, 
was the appointment of a rural school supervisor, an officer 
whose expenses are borne by the Peabody educational fund. The 
choice of the State superintendent for this important position fell 
upon N. R. Baker, who made his first report for the school year 
1911-12. His time was devoted almost entirely to four phases of the 
problem: Grading, closer supervision, the articulation of the various 
grades one with another, and vitalization of school work. 

He reports that some 60 per cent of the rural schools had been 
graded up toOctoberl, 1911, and bethought that byOctober 1, 1913, 
90 per cent would have been graded, this opinion being based upon 
"actual observation and inquiry among teachers, and the estimates of 
many county superintendents," and it was said ' 'nearly all counties are 
now using the uniform course of study suggested by the State depart- 
ment of education." When we turn to the last report of Mr. Baker, 
that dated November 17, 1913, we find that among other matters 
promising, in the opinion of the supervisor, to advance the interests 
of the country schools, besides grading, are improvement of thej 
teaching force, more rural supervision, encouragement of school fairsj 
and libraries, reading circles, consolidation, better sanitation, nightj 
lectures, and the issue of "diplomas" to schools possessing certainj 
requirements of equipment, administration, and vitalizing agencies.! 



RURAL SCHOOLHOUSES AND SUPERVISION. 1Y5 

The work of Mr. Baker has been confined to supervision of white 
rural schools. In 1913 the general education board made provision 
for a State supervisor of negro schools. Mr. James L. Sibley was 
appointed, and entered upon his work in March, 1913. The latest 
report shows 1,918 rural negro schools in the State, of which 1,783 
are one-room schools. "The crying need of these schools is super- 
vision," says the supervisor, who then continues: 

Nearly 50 per cent of the county superintendents reported last year that they did 
not visit a single negro school. * * * It is almost impossible for a superintendent 
to visit all of his white and colored schools. * * * "What those superintendents 
need is competent assistants to help them in this work of supervision. * * * Every 
county superintendent who has a number of negro schools in his county should have a 
colored assistant to help in the work of supervision. * * * It would pay every 
county board to employ such a person, preferably a colored woman, with industrial 
training, to assist the county superintendent. In about 100 counties of the Southern 
States this past year there were employed, out of the Jeanes fund, colored teachers to 
act as assistants to the county superintendents, and to stress industrial work. Alabama 
had 16 of these working in 17 counties. 

He then proposed that the counties employ, as they were allowed 
to do under the law in effect October 1, 1913, such supervisors out 
of their own funds. 

Experience has shown that, on the whole, women make better supervising industrial 
teachers than men, owing to their ability to reach the homes of the children. It is 
recommended that these women be employed for 12 months during the year, devoting 
their time in the winter months to the schools while they are in session, and to canning 
clubs, corn clubs, and community work in the summer. 

It was thought the negroes themselves would be able to pay $100 
to S150 on the salary of such supervising teacher and that the 
county should pay from one-half to two-thirds of the whole. Few 
Government reports are more inspiring than this of Mr. Sibley. 
After discussing teachers' institutes and farm demonstration work 
with some detail, he concludes: 

The kind of education the negro needs is that which will react on his home. In 
fact, that is the kind all classes need. Women should know how to make and care for 
a home. Men should be able to provide for one and maintain it. To do this efficiently, 
both men and women need moral, intellectual, and vocational training. 

In September, 1914, Mr. Baker became assistant superintendent 
of schools in Jefferson County. He was succeeded by Prof, J. B, 
Hobdy, and under a new arrangement all of the rural school work, 
both white and black, will be inspected by both supervisors. Of 
no less importance than the supervisory work carried on under the 
auspices of the Peabody fund and the General Education Board 
is the administration of the law of April 18, 1911, which provides 
that county superintendents may be employed on full time and 
placed on a salary instead of a percentage basis. A recent decision 
of the supreme court upholds the constitutionality of the law, and 
it became fully operative for the first time in 1913-14.^ Thirty- 

i See Alabama reports. 



176 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

mne counties now have paid supervisors who devote their whole time 
to the work. The result is that many schools which were formerly 
visited seldom are now visited regularly. In 1912-13 there were 
2,640 visits paid to white schools and 544 to negro schools; in 1913-14 
the numbers were 6,528 and 1,329. An immediate result of this 
supervision has been a closer grading. In 1912-13 there were 3,226 
graded white schools and 1,040 graded negro schools; in 1913-14 the 
numbers were 4,331 and 1,497. Since the total number of city and 
rural schools in the State is given as 6,753, we may assume that 925, 
or 13.7 per cent, are still ungraded. Of the teachers in these schools, 
857 white and 117 negro hold life certificates; 1,515 and 29 hold 
first-grade certificates; 2,689 and 510, second grade; 2,256 and 1,754, 
third grade. 

No phase of the rural school work has been of more value perhaps 
than that undertaken by the School Improvement Association, a 
voluntary organization of women first begun about 1905. This has 
now spread into nearly every section of the State and has enlisted 
the special and direct attention of parents and others in the work of 
the schools, as was not the case in earlier years. It raised and 
expended in 1913-14 the sum of $86,928 in the physical betterment 
of white public schoolhouses and grounds, an increase of 27 per cent 
over the former year, and $7,603 for colored schools, an increase of 
78 per cent. The influence of the movement has been far wider than 
the mere money raised. It has awakened in many sections a sort of 
proprietary interest in the schools. It has gained a local support 
which in turn "has worked wonders in many communities in the 
improved appearances and in the added comfort of the schoolhouses 
and the grounds about them, together with equipment in desks and 
other necessary furnishings." It has made its influence felt in legisla- 
tion and has assisted in the development of rural libraries for children, 
and in some sections has gone still further, in organizing rural lyceums 
for the older people. It promises, in fact, to be a real and safe begin- 
ning to the problem of the socialization of rural communities which, 
by reason of isolation, have long suffered from an excess of indi- 
vidualism. Not only has the School Improvement Association 
organized the forces for the school, but it has kept them organized 
for the home and the summer vacations, for out of its activities have 
come, in part at least, such supplemental courses in industrial and 
vocational training as are represented by corn clubs, tomato and 
canning clubs, pig and poultry clubs, health clubs, domestic-science 
and domestic-art clubs, and similar organizations. These have added 
practicability to the school work, given to its members the power 
which comes from doing, and developed a new source of income from 
the proceeds of these activities.^ 

1 See interesting reports of the -work of the school improvement association in the proceedings of the 
Alabama Educational Association for 1908, 170-193; 1909, 231-247; 1910, 269-287; 1911, 165-172, etc. 



PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 177 

V. RURAL SCHOOL LIBRARIES AND LIBRARY ORGANIZATIONS. 

Perhaps no law which has for its object the intellectual advance- 
ment of the people has accomplished more within the time than the 
rural-libraries law enacted by the legislature in 1911. 

Tlie movement of which this library law is a development seems 
to have come out of the Alabama Library Association, organized in 
1904, and of which Dr. Thomas M. Owen has been continuously 
president. It holds annual meetings, discusses the popular and 
professional side of library work, and seeks to develop all phases of 
the public library. 

Through its influence the legislature in 1907 revised and extended 
the duties of the department of State archives and history and made 
it in all but name a State library commission. It provided that the 
department shall assist- 
in the establishment of public and school libraries and in the improvement and 
strengthening of those already in existence; it shall give advice and provide assistance 
to libraries and library workers in library administration, methods, and economy; and 
it shall conduct a system of traveling libraries. 

Then came the Alabama Teachers' Reading Circle, organized in 
1909 for the purpose of encouraging general and professional reading 
among the teachers of the State. In 1910 it changed its name and 
widened its scope so as to admit the young people of the State to 
the advantages of its leadership, and the school hbrary law of 1911, 
proposed by Supt. Willingham and pushed through the legislature 
because of his initiative was a natural and necessary evolution. 

This law, passed April 13, 1911, and applicable only to communities 
of less than 1,000 inhabitants, provided that $6,700 for the State ^ — 
$100 for each county — should be devoted to library purposes. It was 
to be appropriated by the proper county courts in sums of $10 to such 
school districts as should raise $10 for a similar purpose. To theso 
sums the county was to add $10 more, and the whole sum of $30 was 
to be devoted to "the purpose of establishing, maintaining, enlarging, 
or improving public libraries in rural, village, or town schools." 
This law was probably copied from a similar one in force in North 
Carolina, but it is a patent improvement on its prototype for the 
reason that it makes these sums available annually. 

The passage of the law awakened remarkable interest in the sub- 
ject throughout the State and its results were quickly manifest. 

The report for 1910-11 showed 468 public school libraries for 
whites and 47 for negro pupils. They had 83,152 and 3,723 volumes, 
respectively, and were worth $66,615 and $2,060. In 1913-14 these 

1 Made available March 15, 1912. 
75075°— 15 12 



178 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

figures had risen to 1,418 and 55 libraries, with 171,288 and 3,044 
volumes and valued at $107,273 and $2,040. Says Supt. Willingham: 

No legislation on the statute books is apparently doing more good in its operation 
for the money expended. * * * The prospects for the current year in the execu- 
tion of this library law are highly promising. A large majority of country boys and 
girls have but little opportunity of broadening their vision through travel, while many 
of the homes of these youth are not plentifully supplied with valuable and attractive 
literature. * * * During the year closed there were 3,048 teachers studying sys- 
tematically the books selected for the Teachers' Reading Circles. This was an increase 
of about 1,000 over the number of teachers thus following a course of self-improvement 
during the preceding year. Teachers who themselves read systematically include, 
for the most part, those who foster and encourage systematic reading on the part of their 
pupils. 

In 1912 the superintendent pubUshed an Alabama library list of 
1,600 bool^, carefully prepared and annotated by Dr. Thomas M. 
Owen, director of the department of archives and history. It was 
revised and extended by him and republished in 1913, and is intended 
to serve as a basis for the purchase of school collections and — 

to anticipate the growing aspiration of the several communities which will avail them- 
selves of the provisions of the law, as well as to afford a list for teachers, high-school 
libraries, small public libraries, and others. 

That this progressive action on the part of the State wdl have 
good effect on the larger libraries is shown by a recent announcement 
that the library board of Birmingham is now (1914) entering upon a 
campaign to raise a fund of approximately $50,000 to be used in the 
purchase of such new books as will bring the city library system up 
to modern standards.^ 

VI. THE DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL SCHOOLS. 

These schools, the beginning of whose organization dates from 
about 1888, seem to have been the least successful of the State's 
efforts. And yet the very things which caused their comparative 
failure pointed out in the most emphatic way the needs of the State 
at that time, but the legislature failed to read the lesson aright or to 
interpret it at all, for the time of awakening had not yet come. 
The purpose of the legislature in creating them was to make them 
centers for agricultural education. They were the forerunners of 
the present development of education along the lines of agriculture, 
industrial, and vocational training. In this respect the legislature 
was ahead of the people, but the latter knew well enough what they 
wanted. They took these agricultural institutions and developed 
them into high schools of the classical type. These schools had 
made themselves sufficiently felt to be mentioned in the superin- 
tendent's report in 1892-1894. The oldest was that for the eighth 
district and was — 

I See Library Journal, December, 191.3, and January, 1914. 



DISTRICT AGEICULTUEAL SCHOOLS. 179 

pleasantly situated in one of the prettiest groves within the corporate limits of the 
classic city of Athens. * * * The college building is a handsome two-story brick, 
and the main building for the boarding department is a splendid two-story struc- 
tm-e, in which the president and his family live with the boarding pupils, giving 
it more the appearance of a large family than of a boarding school. * * * The 
school has now, besides the regular college coiu-se, departments of music, art, and 
elocution. The military feature is used as a means of discipline. 

The school at Albertville (seventh district), established in 1892-93 
and opened in 1894, was similar in character. It reported four depart- 
ments — primary, intermediate, preparatory, and collegiate. It, too, 
had provision for elocution, art, and music, but none for agriculture. 

The school at Evergreen (second district), also estabhshed in 
1892-93 and opened in 1894, was known as the Southwest Alabama 
Agricultural School and Experiment Station. The administrators 
in control of this school alone seem to have had an idea of the real 
purpose of the organization. It was located on a farm of 50 acres, 
and the ''definite and well-defined object" which it had in view was 
to found a school — 

where young men who expect to become farmers may be taught the fundamental 
principles of scientific agriculture * * * and where tests of the analyses of soils 
and fertilizers may be made, and where experiments may be conducted in the growth 
of grains, fruits, vegetables, vines, grasses, and in dairy making and stock raising. 
* * * This school, while denominated agricultural, is not strictly so, as all the 
other sciences, together with the classics, music, art, and a normal or training depart- 
ment, will be included in its curriculum, and its doors are open to both sexes and 
pupils of all grades. 

These schools evidently made an honest effort to comply with the 
purpose of the legislature. They failed, but yet their evolution into 
this type is perfectly logical. The people made them serve what 
they felt was at that time their gi'eatest need, irrespective of mere 
name. They changed them from delocahzed institutions intended 
to serve a whole congressional district to purely local ones with a 
local patronage and organized them to suit their own needs, for in 
1900-1901 the total patronage of the schools reached 2,243, divided 
as follows: College, 881; preparatory, 363; primary, 999. 

This development caused dissatisfaction, and a law of 1903 sought 
to restore them to their original purpose by putting the whole under 
a single board of control, to which was added for service in connection 
with that particular school a number of local trustees. 

Being thus delocahzed they went back to their original plan and 
have been developing since along their original Hues. Sajs the 
superintendent in 1911-12: 

The course of study * * * has been made more practical in that the subject 
of agriculture appears to be emphasized more strongly than at any time in the history 
of these schools. A few of them, however, seem to be having some difficidty in 
impressing the fact of their usefulness upon the minds of the public, who are aiot 



I 



180 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

responding with that patronage which it seems these schools should draw. There 
is no sort of doubt that every one * * * has a most important function to per- 
form in the teaching of practical scientific agricultine. 

In response to this feeling of dissatisfaction there has been a 
formal effort to bring them still nearer to the original purpose for 
which they were organized. Says the superintendent in the 1912-13 
report : 

Last summer at the close of the year's work the board of control of these schools 
reorganized completely the coiu"se of study, with a \'iew to making agricultm-e and agri- 
cultural instruction both in theory and practice the paramount consideration for 
every student connected with these institutions. "WTiatever criticism the public 
may have made of these district schools was based upon the theory that they were 
not doing the full amount of agricultural work intended by the law establishing 
them. The board believes that the complete reorganization of the com'se of study 
upon which these schools have entered for the year now begun will remove all basis 
for reasonable complaint of this kind. 

The statistics of these schools may be presented as follows from the 
superintendent's reports. It is not till 1892-1894 that they became 
of sufficient importance to attract the attention of the superintendent, 
and the material available is at best incomplete and variable in 
character. 



DISTBTCT AGRICULTURAL SCHOOLS. 



181 



^ 


a>o> cooooo- 


(N 


1^ 








oo 


r 




5«< r-tiOOTT X to 






ooo 


3 


■* coooo o n 






w^ 


















too 


o 








e» 




^^c. 










Oil-' 00 CS lO • f-H CO 






oo 




t^ O 03t^ 


o t^ 






s^ 


1 


-^ dcoo 


T-l CO 






M 


t-h" oTc^in" 


^ 






^"^ 




i;0 "XS >— ( 








€© 


OS 


^^^ 










N 


="5 S^8 


s s 






Sc? 




Tj* W O i-H 


O CO 






O '^ 


s 


'^" gss 


-^'" 








^^53 










,_, 


OS cs 40 •— * • ^- 




(:c o O 




o -^co 


'^ 










3 


■* con 










a> 


ii 










e& 


o 


"'S sss^ 








i 






i 


(N rt t^oo 








o 






i-T so't-^co" 








rt" 






gsg 
















C5 -^ ^ 00 O f-H 








-^ 






Ol 


<N O 00 C^ 








lO 








^ t^^-^ 
















lO »0 <N 














•-I 


«^«g 
















o OS t^ o o en 








05 






00 


:o w ascc»o 








^ 






1 


•>• ^t~ CO 












t^ 
















o 


N~ ot^g 














CTl 


«lfe§ 






























e© 
















o>o occwo 








00 






1^ 


05 O 05^ lO 














i 










■^^ 






o 


c<r oio^aT 














m 


TT Tf 0> 
















tf??S 






















o 












00 








00 r-i O500 CM 




























i-T o'cTcm" .-h" 














Tf co^^ 












^ 


^^- 














CS»0 IQ CO Q ■ 




Q 


en 








O rf :o O 










CO 






3 


^ t^(N -^ 








o 


d) 






















































'"' 


^^^ 


















osic csoo»o 00 c^: 


in oo 


c^ 






^ 


lO OCO-^OS 00 IN -^ 


t~ 






CO O OCO 00 O 00 


OS 








cm' 00 c^Tcm" 










CO -* CO 








'-' 


^^s 










°=;:! §f2S2? 




CM 










o 






ci. 


CO t^ CO t^ 


O CO 


00 
















o 


IM MTO^ 










05 












^^^ 












Oi ^ t^ ^ O C33 


CO r^ C 








C^ 


CO 'S'lra cOTf 


o to c^ 








1 


rt ,-1 coco 


lo «o 00 


r- 


















s 


C^l OiOl-* 










SI 


CO CO CO 












^^u 












Ci :0 CIO :S O C^ 




s 








TP 03 O O lO 


•^ OS 0< 






ii 


M C»0>0 










C^ co''co ^ 




^ 




















CTliO r^ 05 
















ir; o: >o 




















020 


o6 com 




















s° 












































Oi 


OS 00 TJt GC 


CO 
















& 


'J: 03 


lO 
















ot. 




















O: 


ci" ■"•"cm" 


















S> 


TT -J> 




















e^e© 




















c:5 ^ o — Q • 










" 




, 




-H o;t^ o 


















? 


t-l ooco O 


















ti 

^ 


c<r co"ooo 


















■^ CO CO 


















X 


«^*s 




















I* C5 C^t Ci o 


















3 




















C5 




















00 


liai^ 


















Ol 


"2 S3S 




















S 


O 05=0 






















■^'tjT 




















s 


«@€^ 




































































: :H 


to 




o 

o 


2 


£? 





i) 












a ■"■§ 


C3 

a. 


C3 




03 


C3 






"^ " a 


<i^ 2i ^ bJO 




o. 


_» 

"o 


>! 

T3 


a^: 1 


3 


o o « 


r2 Co O 


o'5<o 


. o 


••§£•=■- 


>^ 


t- t-.s 


•^o=3»^feo-fe^o 


:ils^ 




3 3 0»' 


O c3 S 3 C^3-S 3 Ci-3 C 


S^o 3_3 




S^.?;h 


HP" 


? 


i;^; 


^ 


gi 


;2; 


f2i 


p^ 


►> 





182 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

VII. INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION. 

Agricultural education brings us naturally to our next subject — 
industrial education in primary and secondary schools. The traming 
of defectives dates back to 1852, although no successful work was 
done until 1858, when the Alabama Deaf and Dumb Asylum was 
organized. It survived the shock of war, and about 1869 a depart- 
ment for the blind -yvas added. This trainmg was of necessity largely 
industrial in character. 

In 1872 the A. & M. College, now known as the Alabama Polytechnic 
Institute, was organized and offered instruction along industrial lines 
to such young white men as had already made some educational 
progress. Then, in the eighties, came the Marion, Huntsville, and 
Tuskegee schools, which offered to negro boys and girls such indus- 
trial training as they were prepared to follow to advantage. Then 
the organization of agricultural schools was intended to carry this 
trainmg further down the Ime and give it to those white boys who were 
not able or not prepared to profit by college courses, so that before 
1890 every class of youth in Alabama, including the defectives, had 
had some Ime of industrial trainmg open to them except the white 
ghls of the State. For them nothing was available except the teach- 
ers' courses in the normal schools. To call attention to this situation 
was to inaugurate a movement for a change. 

On January 1, 1895, an act went into effect which created an Indus- 
trial School for Wliite Girls. The act provided a board of trustees 
consisting of the governor, the superintendent of education, the 
auditor, one from each congressional district and two from the State at 
large. In this school girls were to be educated "in industrial and 
scientific branches" and might acquire there — 

a thorough normal-school education, together with a knowledge of kindergarten 
instruction and music; also a knowledge of telegraphy, stenography, photography, and 
phonography, typewriting, printing, bookkeeping, in-door carpentry, electrical con- 
struction, clay modeling, architectural and mechanical drawing, sewing, dressmaking, 
millinery, cooking, laundry, house, sign and fresco painting, home nursing, plumbing, 
and such other practical industries as from time to time to them may be suggested by 
experience or tend to promote the general object of * * * fitting and preparing 
such girls for the practical industries of the age. 

The sum of $5,000 was appropriated for the first year; $10,000 for 
the second; $15,000 each for 1897 and 1898. The school was located 
at Montevallo, in Shelby County, and was opened October 12, 1896. 
The enrollment the first year was 227, divided into five courses, known as 
normal, business, industrial arts, domestic science, and college courses. 
In 1897-98 the enrollment was 368, with 38 graduates. There 
were then 21 teachers, and while the total appropriation to that date 
amounted to $45,000, property had been accumulated worth $46,279. 
In 1899-1900 the attendance was 400, and it was said that the mstitu- 



INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION. 183 

tion had reached the limit of its capacity in the accommodation of 
pupils. The school term was now lengthened to eight months and a 
dairy farm was established. In 1906 the State superintendent said 
that the usefulness of the institution was being retarded by lack of 
buildings and equipment, but that it was placmg a secondary educa- 
tion within the reach of many girls who would otherwise be unable to 
secure it and that it was "teaching useful industries by which the 
girls may make a living should necessity require it." While this 
school, like most others, has not had a career of uninterrupted devel- 
opment, its course has been generally upward. It has widened its 
vision, extended its courses, and increased its requirements, and as it 
has thus extended its purview it has passed further and further from 
the scope of the present study. Its widenmg ambition is voiced in 
the change of name in 1911 from the Girls Industrial School to the 
Alabama Girls' Technical Institute, the purpose now being evidently 
to do for the secondary and higher education of women what the 
Alabama Polytechnic Institute at Auburn is doing for men. This 
wider horizon is reflected in its statistics for 1912-13. It had 525 
pupils, with 39 instructors. It enjoyed a total income of $116,811, of 
which $56,506 was principally from the endowment of funds given the 
institution b}^ the Federal Goverimient and $36,000 was from the 
State. It had a library of 5,900 volumes, and its total equipment was 
valued at $593,500. In 1913-14 the library contained 6,000 volumes ' 
and 2,000 pamphlets and was valued at $6,000. The report for 
1910-11 says that: 

Former pupils of this school are meeting with the highest success in all the walks of 
life open to women. The training they receive here specially prepares them for 
teaching, and hundreds of them are filling positions in the public and private schools. 
* * * Technical courses are now being introduced in many of the public schools, 
and this will increase the demand for teachers trained in this school. Many former 
students are taking high rank in various industrial pursuits as bookkeepers, stenog- 
raphers, milliners, dressmakers, nurses, florists, etc. The crowning work of the school, 
however, is the splendid preparations for home life. 

Within the last few years other mstitutions, some for boys, others 
for girls, have come to the front and are makhig themselves felt in the 
widenmg educational field. One of these is the coeducational North- 
east Alabama Agricultural and Industrial Institute, located at Lme- 
ville. Clay County, which for the year 1912-13 reports 596 pupils, half 
of them in the elementary grades. It offers courses in normal training 
and domestic science; has property worth $34,260, and had an mcome 
for the year of $7,896, of which $3,000 came from the State. 

Another institution giving mdustrial training is the Alabama 
(White) Boys Industrial School, East Lake, near Birmingham. This 
institution is essentially reformatory in character, and grew out of a 
private enterprise subventioned by the State. In 1901-2 it received 
$15,000 for the two years; 1903-1906 this sum was uicreased to $8,000 



184 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

per year; during the next quadrennium it reached $20,000 per year, 
and ill 1911 the sum was made elastic and fixed at $150 per pupil. In 
1912-13 it had 291 pupils and enjoyed an income of $45,400, of which 
$43,200 came from tlie State. Its property is valued at .$126,000. 
Efforts to interest the State in a similar institution for girls failed 
to meet with approval in 1907.^ 

The Alabama School for Deaf and Blmd offers classes in manual 
training, and in 1912-13 enjoyed an income of $80,559, practically all 
of which was from the State. 

It will be noted that these schools, and the district agricultural 
schools as well, offer their courses mainly to secondary pupils, but the 
tendency is more and more clearly marked to introduce the elements 
of agriculture and industrial work into the grades, and thus correlate 
more closely the work of the schools with the actual duties of life. 

VIII. THE COUNTY HIGH SCHOOLS. 

Up to the year 1907 the history of public high schools in Alabama 
had not been differeat from what it was in other Southern States. 
There were no public high schools except as attempts had been made 
to evolve them here and there as a part of the school system of 
various cities. There had been and were then successful high schools 
in operation in the State, but they were private or denominational. 
The pupil who lived in the country or in any except a few of the 
larger towns must secure his high-school training from private insti- 
tutions. In fact, as late as 1886 the Alabama Educational Associa- 
tion was stiU discussing how far the State should aid ''high schools, 
normal schools, and colleges." The right of the State to do this was 
denied by at least one speaker, who makes a bitter attack on such 
State aid, being evidently inspired to take this view by the private 
school interests, which had a practical monopoly of the country and 
were comparatively weU organized. On the other hand, the public 
high school system, even in the towns and cities, was disjointed and 
fragmentary. There was little official connection and little correla- 
tion between the State-supported public school at the bottom and the 
State-supported university at the top of the educational system. 
Each part was independent of and received little or no help from the 
other. 

But the University of Alabama, then under the presidency of 
John W. Abercrombie, saw the necessity of bridging the chasm 
between the primary schools and the higher institutions. How 
could it do this without money ? President Abercrombie was fortu- 
nately able to interest the authorities of the General Education 
Board, who agreed to furnish the university with the necessary 
funds for a professorship of secondary education. When, the posi- 

1 See L aws, 1907, p. 185. 



THE COUNTY HIGH SCHOOLS. 



185 



tion was filled the choice fell on Mr. Joel C. Du Bose, who, in 1905, 
nominally as an associate professor of secondary education in the 
university, in reaUty as an advance agent for the institution, took the 
field in an effort to inaugurate a movement looking to a system of 
State high schools. Mr. Du Bose spent two years ^ travehng over 
the State, visiting many schools in many locaUties and preaching the 
doctrine of a more extended school system. This had its due effect, 
and the assembly on August 7, 1907,- passed a law which laid the 
foundation for a high school in each county. 

Under the high-school law of 1907 a high-school commission, con- 
sisting of the governor, aucUtor, and superintendent of education, 
was appointed to locate one high school in each county. The 
counties were required to furnish 5 acres of land, on which they were 
to erect a building worth not less than $5,000. The whole was to 
be deeded to the State. These schools were to be under the control 
of the county board of education; rules and regulations for the 
government and employment of teachers were placed in the hands 
of the high-school commission. The teachers in these high schools 
were required to have a first-grade or Ufe certificate, and all matricu- 
lates were to pass " a satisfactory examination in the branches of 
free public instruction in the elementary schools." A matricula- 
tion fee of $2.50 might be charged. For the years 1908-9 and 1909-10 
the schools received from the State $2,000 each. Beginning with 
July 1, 1911, this amount was increased to $3,000. 

The result of this law was that a keen rivalry sprang up among 
the various towns and villages for the purpose of securing these 
schools. Some locahtics were disappointed in their ambition, but 
they erected houses and organized high schools in spite of their 
failure to secure State funds. In this way also the towns were 
enabled to differentiate and extend their high-school departments, 
and the demand for State funds and for county high schools was 
more than the State could supply. 

Statistics of county high schools. 



Item. 



Number of county high schools 

Value of property 

Number of teachers 

Number of students 

Number of boarding students 

Number in average attendance 

State appropriation 

Tow-n appropriation 

County board of education appropriation.. 

Miscellaneous sources 

Total income 

Total paid teachers 

Total expenses 

Total volumes in liliraries 

Length of term in days 



$316,500 

49 

1,160 

40S 

840 

$42,000 

$5,820 

$1,100 

$1,774 

$50, 694 

$45, 666 



33 

$419,024 

79 

1,816 

601 

1,019 

$60, 500 

$5,424 

$7, 875 

$7, 907 

$81,707 

$70,006 

$78,362 



1910-11 



33 

$438, 792 

108 

3,041 

1,047 

2,028 

$70, 250 

$.5, 693 

$13, 199 

$11,979 

$104,347 

$88, 007 

$99, 641 

6,946 



42 

$554, &37 

155 

3,787 

1,359 

2 294 

$119' 000 

$4,457 

$11,005 

$19, 986 

$158,641 

$126,444 

$148,565 

7,975 

180 



1912-13 



50 

$686,574 

182 

4,570 

1,725 

3,484 

$152,000 

$2, 604 

$9,833 

$29, 922 

$197,540 

$15'.), 359 

$190,083 

11,030 

180 



1913-14 



53 

$709,086 

174 

4,996 

1,968 

3,9.33 

$152, 003 

$4,44:) 

$15,634 

$39,850 

$211,924 

$166,229 

$206,552 

13, 028 

180 



1 He resigned Oct. 1, 1907. 



> See Revised Code of 1907. 



186 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDtTCATION IN ALABAMA. 

It vsill be noted that there are included in the number of matricu- 
lates in some schools a number of seventh-grade pupils. This is a 
provision made by law to meet the needs of pupils in certain counties 
whose primary schools have not as yet risen to the requisite standard, 
and it did much to popularize these schools with the masses. 

As high-school salaries go in the Southern States the pay of the 
principals in these county high schools has been very good. Only one 
county paid less than $1,100 in 1912-13, while 23 paid $1,500; Hous- 
ton County paid $1,575; Marengo, $1,855; and Bibb, $2,000. The 
total amount of income varies from $3,200 in Cleburne to $8,078 in 
Dale (1912-13). 

With the organization of these high schools, it has been possible to 
bridge over the chasm which formerly existed between the public 
schools and the university. They maintain a full four-year high- 
school course, and with their development and growth the whole 
scheme of education will be complete. Candidates for college can 
now in most counties secure the necessary preparation within reason- 
able distance of their homes. 

The patronage, when analyzed, shows that as yet, and as might 
be expected, about two pupils are from the home locahty to every one 
coming from a distance. But the field of patronage is widening, and 
that the schools are growing in general favor is illustrated when we 
note that the 32 schools organized in 1909-10 then had 1,816 pupils 
and that the same schools had in 1912-13 3,015 pupils. 

Careful courses of study ^ have been worked out for these schools 
which are "directed toward giving each student as far as possible a 
suitable training for the duties and responsibilities of good citizen- 
ship." For this reason they are made thoroughly practical and at the 
same time fit their graduates, of which there were 299 in 1913, "to 
meet fully all the college entrance requirements." 

Prof. James S. Thomas, of the department of secondary education 
in the University of Alabama on the foundation established by the 
General Education Board, has been appointed State inspector for the 
county, town, and city high schools. There has been associated with 
him in this work Prof. J. K. Rutland as representative of the Alabama 
Polytechnic Institute. The value of their services is evident. They 
make weekly or monthly reports to the university and the State 
superintendent on the actual conditions; the course of study is made 
uniform, and the constant visits of the inspectors enable the State 
through its high-school commission to maintain a common standard 
as to the quality of the instruction given. 

1 Published in 1910. 



Chapter XII. 
LOOKING FROM THE PAST AND INTO THE FUTURE. 



Just 60 years ago the State of Alabama made its first formal essay 
toward a State-supported and State-administered public-school sys- 
tem. During this period there have been many ups and downs of 
educational fortune, but there has been progress. What, in brief, 
have been the main characteristics of the educational experience of 
60 years ? 

Tlie pubhc-school system of Alabama is based primarily on the 
grant by Congress of the sixteenth sections to the State for educa- 
tional purposes. These sections were granted to the people of the 
respective townsliips, although it has been judicially decided that 
the title vested in the State for the benefit of these townships. 

The grant did not mean that a great educational fund was estab- 
lished in the State, to be administered by the State as a unit, directed, 
controlled, and used by it under such conditions as would best pro- 
mote public education as a whole. It did mean that there were 
potentialities present in the shape of wild lands wliich in time, under 
good management, might be developed and converted into such a 
fund. The Federal Government furnished the raw material out of 
which this educational fund was to come. . The people of Alabama 
through their assembly were expected to furnish the machinery and 
the men by whom these results were to be attained. But the people 
of Alabama of that day were pioneers and State builders; they were 
neither financiers nor educationists. As a result the blunders that 
resulted might have been predicted in part at least. 

First of all, it was necessary to sell the best of these lands and 
invest the proceeds so as to lay the foundations for productive income. 
The infant State was under the practical necessity of creating a cir- 
culating medium, and the hue of investment that promised a circu- 
lating medium and an income on the fund at the same time was 
through the State bank, estabhshed with branches in various sections 
of the State. During the thirties speculation was rife all over the 
Union. Fortunes were quickly and easily made in Alabama as 
elsewhere. All available school funds seem to have gone into the 
State bank, and so great were its earnings that it was found possible 
in 1836 to abolish State taxation and to rely on the State bank to 
meet the expenses of government. In 1839, since prosperity was 

187 



I8g PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

still continuing, the assembly went still further and required the 
State bank to contribute $1 50,000 annually to the support of a public- 
school system as yet unorganized. In 1840 the annual requirement 
was raised to $200,000. This sum may be regarded in part as an 
annual and just interest on the pubhc-school fund invested in the 
State bank as a part of its capital stock and in part as a participation 
of the school system along with other departments of the State 
government in the amazing, if temporary, success of one of its sub- 
ordinate activities. 

The situation in 1839 was therefore anomalous; by a series of for- 
tunate investments — speculations we might almost say — the State 
suddenly found itself in possession of an annual income of from 
$150,000 to $200,000 for exclusive use in the promotion of an educa- 
tional system which had never yet been organized and of which those 
in authority knew practically nothing. In this dilemma, caused by 
the absence of knowledge and of organization, the State seems to 
have been content to distribute such funds as came into its hands 
among such piivate and denominational schools as then existed in 
the State. The funds thus distributed seem to have been only 
complementary to those coming from private sources, and no con- 
troUing and directing interest- was asserted by the State or recognized 
by the recipients. The net result seems to have been that by this 
use of the pubHc funds they were practically dissipated, and so 
contributed little or nothing to the evolution of a public-school system. 
The only permanent gain was the knowledge, based on experience, 
that the pubhc-school system must be organized with the State, 
not the individual, as the predominant partner. 

To this failure in administration was now added a stiU more serious 
misfortune in the practical loss of the principal of the sixteenth 
section funds with the failure of the State bank. 

Perhaps the most natural result of this experience of a generation 
was an inevitable association in the public mind of the idea of pubhc 
schools and sixteenth section funds. The former seemed to depend 
entirely on the latter. They were supported ouL of its income and 
without such income they were not even considered. The idea of 
the pubhc school was that of an institution with an independent 
source of support coming to the people from without, not from within. 
To the people of Alabama the pubhc school was at that time not an 
evolution, it was an importation, supported by a fund of outside 
origin. It is possible that this fact will explain in part the conserva- 
tism of the people even to-day in the matter of allowing local taxes 
for the support of the system, and it may be that the loss of the 
principal of the sixteenth section fund with the failure of the State 
bank and the resulting necessity of raising the annual interest out of 
taxes instead was not an unmixed evil. It certainly tended to arouse 



LOOKING FROM THE PAST AND INTO THE FUTURE. 189 

the people to a realization that the system was their own, whatever 
it was. It made the success or failure of the system now vital and 
personal to every man who thought. The wasting of a Federal gift 
might be venial, but the wasting of State taxes was mortal. • 

It is evident that to the middle-of-the-century aristocratic slave- 
holder of Alabama few things could be more foreign than the idea 
of pubhc taxation for schools. He had been educated m a private, 
denominational, or endowed institution. He had paid for the 
instniction received. He was both wilHng and able to pay for the 
education of his own children, and for these reasons he was willing 
to let the pubhc-school fund go for the education of those less finan- 
cially able. He would subscribe to the pubhc school for his own chil- 
dren and allow the pubhc money to go to the poorer members of 
society, for to him the pubhc money, even if raised by taxation on 
himself and his peers, savored of the outside, of Federal influence and 
of centralization, terms all hateful to men who were sufficient unto 
themselves and who fived and ruled within their own domain. By 
mere contrast with this point of view, to the poor man the State 
bounty came to savor of pubhc charity; in his individual pride he 
characterized the pubhc system as a pauper system, whose service 
an exaggerated and undue self-respect frequently forbade him to 
accept. The slaveholder probably did not, as a rule, emphasize 
the charity idea; he rather waived his right as a matter of generosity 
to the less fortunate. It was the poor man, not his wealthy neighbor, 
who characterized the public schools as a pauper system. 

Again, the question of pubhc schools involved the still larger 
question of an extension of State activities and a further centraliza- 
tion of power. The people of the State were strict constructionists 
of the theory of Federal power, and what apphed to the United States 
Government apphed almost equally as well to the State government. 
Decentralization was the watchword, and the nearer this reached the 
individual the better. The very theory of a State-supported and 
State-controUed system of pubfic education was foreign to the ideas 
of the rank and file of the men of that day. That this is true is made 
evident by a perusal of the pubfic utterances of the leaders of the 
time. For years they had urged that such steps be taken by the State, 
but the people were exceedingly slow to advance in that direction, 
as their legislative proceedings wiU show. The reasons for this 
slowness are based perhaps as much on a strict interpretation of the 
constitution as on indifference. 

The total result of the first generation of deafing with sixteenth 
section lands and pubfic schools may be smnmed up in a single word — 
experience. The people had experimented in administering the six- 
teenth section lands, also in investing the funds derived from these 
lands, and had lost. They had sold their best lands, they had invested 



190 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

the money in stock of the State bank, and the bank had failed. The 
net result was that what was intended as a productive fund for 
certain townships, became, m the form of a paper fund, a charge on 
all, the interest on which, if paid, would come in due proportion from 
the counties least able to bear and go in part to those most able to do 
without, and aU this because of the initial mistake of the grant bemg 
made to the township and not to the State. 

The two elements of progress that seem to have come out of the 
situation are the evident effort of the State to make an equitable 
distribution of the fund according to needs rather than the strict 
letter of ownership and, through the necessity of raising the income 
of the sixteenth section fund by taxation, a famiUarization of the 
people wdth this method of securing all school funds. 

The sole capital then with which the State began its pubhc-school 
system was a stock of knowledge gained through a generation of 
hard knocks in the school of experience, something less than a milHon 
acres of land of problematical value, and a paper fund amounting 
to more than $1,000,000. 

From the first formal organization of the system (1854) all of the 
pubhc-school funds were raised by taxation, but, coming indirectly 
and partly as a gift from the State, the people were slow to grasp the 
idea that they were themselves the ultimate source of this income. 

After the school system was finally estabhshed in 1854, and its 
sources of income fixed by law, the question of administration reverted 
to the older idea of schools without supervision. The people seemed 
willing enough to spend for schools whatever money was available, 
but they were not often willing that any of this should be spent 
either for State or county supervision. The idea seems to have been 
that the pubfic-school system when once organized was amply able 
to execute itself. This indicates clearly that the people had not yet 
been liberated from the memory of earher days when pubhc fimds 
were merely supplementary to private funds and when the schools 
were essentially private institutions, with some additional income 
derived from pubhc endowment or its equivalent. The situation 
was now exactly reversed. The schools were essentially pubhc; 
they were supported in the main by pubhc funds, which were, how- 
ever, for many years increased in amount by fees for tuition and inci- 
dentals, and from various other sources. These additional sums 
in the earher days were sometimes as much as one-half of the whole, 
and even in recent years have not been inconsiderable, yet the time 
has never been, since 1854, when there was the shghtest inchnation 
on the part of the State to loosen its hold on the schools or to return 
to the system of the forties. Supervision won its battle before the 
Civil War, and since has grown steadily in importance and influence. 



LOOKING FROM THE PAST AND INTO THE FUTURE. 191 

During the seven years between 1854 and 1861 the schools were 
steadily developing and gaming a hold on the people. They were 
becoming better understood, their resources were increasing some- 
what, and they were widening the scope of their activities. There 
can be no doubt that during these years the system took a lasting 
hold on the affections of the people of the State. This is mdicated 
by the tenacity with which it held its own during the war and the 
period immediately following. It is clear that had there been no 
reconstruction, the schools would have continued developing along 
the original lines. Their field would have been soon broadened and 
extended so as to include the negro, and with the recuperation that 
would have followed with years of peace they would have soon recov- 
ered the ground lost during the time of war and outdistanced the best 
days of the ante bellum period. 

But this was not to be. Reconstruction added to the burdens of 
the white population and worked a hardship upon the negroes, 
because it carried in its train the hostility of the whites among 
whom they lived and who were at heart their friends. It meant 
that the energy which for the next years would have been spent 
in developmg the schools and in building up again the waste places 
of the State must now be spent in wresting the scepter of govern- 
ment from the hands of the negro and his political allies. In this 
life and death struggle all else was forgotten. Without autonomy, 
education was dead. No wonder there was little progress m those eight 
wretched years. The real wonder is that, when this proud people 
had again come into their own politically, they so easily and quickly 
forgot the evils that had been grafted on their system of public schools 
during the reconstruction period, and after revising and revivifying 
the new system retained all the good which it had evolved. It seems 
literally true that the public-school system of Alabama, organized in 
ante bellum days, conducted during the period of actual hostilities, and 
maintained so far as available funds would permit through the next 
three years, gained nothing by its reorganization in 1868. It was not 
placed in the hands of the men who were best fitted to administer it, 
either by previous experience, ability, or character. It was too often 
the prey of the ignorant and the spoilsmen. The nadir of misfortune 
was reached in 1873, when the schools were j^ractically closed because 
extravagance, carelessness, and ignorance had already piled upon 
them a load which they could no longer bear. The tide now turned ; 
and out of the slough of despond, under the leadership of a brave, 
broad-minded man, a new organization was to rise, an organization 
for which, whether good or bad, Alabamians alone are responsible 
and through which the}^ are still seeking to solve the great question 
of universal education. 



192 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

After the adoption of the constitution of 1875, and the reorganiza- 
tion of schools which followed it, the permanent existence of the 
public-school system as one of the regular activities of government 
was assured. This constitution provided that $100,000 a year be 
devoted to the schools; what came to them beyond this sum depended 
on the general prosperity of the State and the will of the assembly. 
It is possible that the idea in mind of the constitution makers was 
that the system contained too many elements of usefulness to be 
left to the mere will of the assembly. For this reason it was given 
a formal lease of life by the organic law, with enough income to 
assure its continuance. Beyond this, expansion could come only as 
the system appeared to the people to be making good. In truth it 
must be said that almost another generation passed before it really 
began to make good. 

There were many reasons for this comparative failure — the presence 
of a different race and a certain amount of inequality in the distribution 
of funds was one cause; indifference, ignorance, lack of funds, short 
terms, poor teachers, and poor results were other causes; nor is it worth 
while to veil the fact that the administration of the department was a 
matter of politics. Most of the early superintendents were made the 
party nominee for religious, economic, or social reasons, or as a matter 
of political expediency. Sometimes there was in the superintendent 
little of the spirit or enthusiasm of the real teacher or educational 
missionary who was willing to go into the corners of the State in sea- 
son or out of season and preach the doctrine of educational salvation. 
Then, too, with a single exception, during the last 40 years the super- 
intendent has been changed every four years or oftener. Since the 
adoption of the constitution of 1875 there have been in all 11 indi- 
viduals who have filled or finished 12 terms of office and this rotation 
in office is now fixed by the constitution itself. The result is that 
there can not be the highest degree of continuity in development, for 
as soon as a superintendent begins to learn the details of his office 
and so to become master of the situation he must give place to 
another. He can have no assurance that his plans will be carried 
out by his successor, and knowing that no amount of success will 
help him succeed himself, he is under constant temptation to accept 
other positions before his term of service is over. This has already 
twice been the case since 1901, when this new constitutional provi- 
sion went into force. 

In earlier days the interests of the schools were not always the main 
consideration when party nominations were made; partisan politics 
rather than education sometimes dictated, and it has been by a long 
and laborious mental process that the people have come to a realiza- 
tion that their educational system is something more than a mere 



LOOKING FROM THE PAST AND INTO THE FUTURE. 193 

department of government charged with duties that concern the 
present. The administration of Maj. Pahner helped to this real- 
ization. His success was in part because he had a longer term in 
which to carry out his plans; he had more funds than his predeces- 
sors ; he also assisted the cities to realize their needs and urged them 
along hnes of self-help. They were beginning to feel the imperative 
necessity for more funds; they now began seeking for the means of 
supplying the need. Unincorporated communities were shut out by 
the Cullman case — Schultes v. Eberly. The Birmingham decision in 
1895 cut off income from another class of taxes, but this process of 
exclusion revealed to them that these funds might be raised on a 
general city levy and then appropriated in accord with specific enact- 
ment to the use of schools. About 1895 the same thing was tried 
with the counties. They were careful to keep ^dthin the constitu- 
tional limit of 75 cents on the $100, but found it possible, through 
special legislative enactment, to appropriate a part of the funds 
raised under a general levy to school purposes. Through the devel- 
opment of this idea in the counties it was possible to secure the State- 
wide act of 1899, which required the comities to make a straight levy 
of 10 cents per hundred for schools. This levy kept within the total 
tax hmit, but it is not at all certain that it would have passed the 
test of the courts. The friends of the measure were reUeved from 
anxiety, however, by the constitution of 1901, which adopted the 
idea, extended it from 10 cents to 30 cents, and made it a part of 
the organic law. The author of the act of 1899 was John W. Aber- 
crombie, then superintendent. It was through his efforts that it 
passed the assembly. The Ught was breaking. The men in charge 
of the educational department were now practical educators, and 
while the new constitution did not reflect their full hopes and wishes, 
it did show the presence of their influence. It was in reality a com- 
promise between the progressive proeducational interests which 
demanded the fuUest rights of local and State taxation and the old 
conservative and vested interests which wanted httle taxation or 
none at all. The new 30-cent tax for education was levied by the 
State, collected by the counties, paid to the State, and by it again 
distributed to the comities. The constitution also made possible an 
optional county tax of 10 cents on the $100, but the right of local 
taxation was still denied to both cities and local school districts, and 
since then these have become the centers around which the struggle 
for further progress has been carried on. 

The hmited success attained through the constitution of 1901 was 
by no means accidental or exotic. On the other hand, it had its 
root deep in the soil of other years and is a product of the faithful 
work of a few men and women in various walks of Ufe — teachers, 

75075°— 15 — —13 



194 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

school officers, superintendents, and others. Through their efforts 
such development came as was possible with the limited funds avail- 
able. Their efforts, their words and actions, made possible the 
development of that day and paved the way for the constitutional 
amendment of 1901. 

With the new sources of income now at command, the schools began 
to make a great leap forward, especially in the length of term, in the 
funds available per child of school age, and in school equipment. 
With the increase of funds has come also a widening of school activi- 
ties. This includes the reorganization of the special school district 
system and its extension to the whole State; the reorganization of 
the district agricultural schools; the organization of high schools; 
the increased efficiency of the normal schools; the evolution of the 
Montevallo Girls' Industrial School into a high-gi'ade technical insti- 
tute for women; the extension of the work of the university and of 
the Alabama Polytechnic Institute. All along the fine has educa- 
tional endeavor been awakened and reinforced and reinvigorated. 
There is now almost everywhere a better and closer supervision, a 
keener and more general interest in the educational progress of all 
classes of the population. All phases of educational work, from the 
primary grades to the university, have been encouraged, inspired, 
and strengthened. 

In no way can this general progress be illustrated better than by 
comparmg the statistics of illiteracy in Alabama in 1880 with those 
in 1910, as follows: 

Total number of illiterates 10 years of age and over. 

1880 433,447, or 50.9 per cent. 

1890 438,535, or 41.0 per cent. 

1900 443,590, or 34.0 per cent. 

1910 352,710, or 22.9 per cent. 

Native white illiterates 10 years of age and over. 

1880 111,040, or 25.0 per cent. 

1890 106,235, or 18.4 per cent. 

1900 103,570, or 14.8 per cent. 

1910 84,768, or 9.9 per cent. 

Foreign white illiterates 10 years of age and over. 

1880 727, or 7.7 per cent. 

1890 1,100, or 7.9 per cent. 

1900 1,313, or 9.3 per cent. 

1910 2,063, or 11.3 per cent. 

Negro illiterates 10 years of age and over. 

1880 • 321,680, or 80.6 per cent. 

1890 330,700, or 69.1 per cent. 

1900 338,707, or 57.4 per cent. 

1910 265,628, or 40.1 per cent. 



LOOKING FROM THE PAST AND INTO THE FUTURE. 195 

Illiterates 10 to 20 years of age, inclusive. 

1880 166,395, or 53.5 per cent. 

1890 ' 144,665, or 34.8 per cent. 

1900 133,584, or 28.0 per cent. 

1910 86,437, or 16.4 per cent. 

A study of these census figures will show that while there was a 
decrease, as measured by per cent of ilMteracy in the 20 years between 
1880 and 1900, in reahty (1) the total number of illiterates increased 
by 10,000; (2) foreign iUiterates increased by nearly 600; (3) negro 
iUiterates increased by 17,000; (4) white native iUiterates decreased 
by less than 8,000. This meant that while the relative amount of 
iUiteracy was less in 1900 than in 1880, the possibility of its final 
eradication seemed at that time to be almost indefinitely post- 
poned. The publication of these statistics no doubt had its influ- 
ence in awakening the people of the State, They saw that their 
public-school system, although nearly half a century old, was not 
holding its own in the face of growing ignorance. They diagnosed 
the reason, and they had force of character to apply the proper 
remedy which, in the case of Alabama, meant mainly more money 
and equipment. The increase in the school funds shows clearly in 
the census returns of 1910 : The total number of illiterates was reduced 
between 1900 and 1910 by 91,000; the native whites by 19,000; and 
negro illiterates by 73,000; and the per cent of illiterates between 
10 and 20 years of age, as compared with 1890, was more than cut 
in liaK. But accordmg to the State school census of 1914 the figures 
of to-day are not so satisfactory and give httle comfort to those in 
authority. In discussing illiteracy and the school census of 1914, 
Supt. Feagin says, in his report for 1913-14: 

In the aggregate there are 306,857 white children in Alabama between the ages of 
10 and 20, inclusive. Of this number, 280,598 are literate and 26,259 are illiterate. 
This means that 1 out of every 12, although he has had the opportunity of public 
education for three years or even more, is still finable to read and write. There are 
240,814 colored children in the State between the ages of 10 and 20, inclusive, of 
whom 170,567 are literate and 70,247 are illiterate. This means that 1 negro in 4, 
between the aforesaid ages, can not read and write. For our combined population 
there are 547,671 children between the ages of 10 and 20, inclusive, and of this num- 
ber 451,165 are literate and 96,506 are illiterate. * * * That conditions are gi-ad- 
ually improving no one can deny, but if our number of illiterates decreases in future 
census decades by the number that it decreased in the last census decade it will 
require just 65 years to place Alabama and the people of Alabama where they ought 
to be when educational opportunity is equalized and utilized. 

If, however, comparison is made between the situation in 1900- 
1901 and in 1913-14, it will be evident that substantial progress is 
being made: 

The total number of teachers increased from 6,302 to 9,727. 

School property from $934,065 to $8,417,291. 

Special tax of 30 cents per hundred from $245,246 to $1,734,302. 

City and county appropriations from $663,754 (in 1907-8) to $3,363,859. 

1 Estimated. 



196 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

The total available funds from $1,180,283 to $4,446,076. 

Total available funds per capita of school population from $1.67 to $5.74. 

Total expenditures from $1,119,397 to $4,274,458. 

Length of school term for whites from 97 to 135 days; for negroes from 82.7 to 104 days. 

Per cent of school population enrolled in 1900-1901 was 54.3; in 1913-14 it was 60.5. 

The per cent of enrollment in average attendance was 46.9 in 1900-1901, and 61.6 in 
1913-14. 

The per cent of school population in average attendance was 25.4 and 37.2, respec- 
tively. 

It does not seem that these phases of the school system, enrollment 
and attendance, are making progress equal to others. They repre- 
sent one of the phases of the subject which is crying loudly for an 
improvement superinduced b}^ law. It is safe to beheve also that 
no such extensive gains are hkely to be shown by the census of 
1920 as are shown in 1910, for the reason that with the funds now 
available the public schools have about reached their zenith. Under 
most favorable conditions, with a given amount of money from 
year to year, only results of a corresponding grade can be expectetl. 
The results of the increased funds available under the constitution 
of 1901 are now reaching their flood tide; without more funds for 
expansion they will remain stationary for a time, and then will 
come necessarily a reaction and the beginning of the ebb. Educa- 
tional leaders in the State have long grasped the situation and 
are now bending their energies toward securing legislative sanction 
for a constitutional amendment permitting local taxation. Such 
a provision was defeated by a small margin only in the legislature 
of 1911; no matter of more importance will come before the session 
of 1915. Defeat is unthinkable, for the people of Alabama arc 
aroused; they are patriotic and it would mean a shock to educational 
development, an encouragement to illiteracy, a check on progress in 
general, a moving backward of the shadow on the dial of Ahaz. 

With an increase of funds must go also other elements of progress 
to insure the best results. The most important of these is that of 
compulsory school attendance. Loca,l taxation and compulsory 
attendance will doubtless open to the State a new era of educational 
prosperity. They are to-day vital necessities, and this study can 
perhaps be ended in no better way than by quoting the words of 
one of Alabama's educational leaders, who having served as State 
superintendent has now become president of the State Normal 
School at Florence. Mr. Henry J. Willingham says in the Educa- 
tional Exchange for Februiiry, 1914: 

School attendance is required throughout the civilized world to-day, except in 
Russia, Spain, and Turkey, and six of the Southern States.^ How much longer shall 
we * * * in Alabama be willing to say "Here we rest"? It is gratifying to 
observe that public sentiment seems to be crystallizing in the demand for a law 
upon our statute books on the subject of compulsory attendance. God speed the 
day when it may come. 

This only is educational salvation. 

1 Reduced to four in April, 1915. 



PUBLIC SCHOOL STATISTICS, 1850-1914. 



Table 1. — School population, teachers, property, and school year. 





Totals, white and negro. 


White only. 


Value all 

school 
property. 


Negro. 


Years. 


School 
popula- 
tion. 


Teach- 
ers. 


Schools. 


Month- 
ly sal- 
ary. 


Days in 
school 
year. 


Teach- 
ers. 


Schools. 


Month- 
ly sal- 
ary. 


Days in 
school 
year. 


1855 


1145,518 
171,073 
178,095 




















1856 




2,281 
2,262 
2,597 




120 
125 
122.5 











1857 












1858 


i 








18-59 






1 








1860 




2 2,038 


1,903 






1 








1861-1868 


















1868-69 


357, 181 
387, 057 
399, 153 
403, 735 
404, 739 
405,839 
406, 270 


2,902 

"3,' 476" 
2,650 


2,824 
1,845 
3,321 
















1869-70 3 


«S42.58 
4 42. 60 
*38.00 


49 

66.5 

72 






490 
922 


$42.27 
43.06 
40.00 


49 


18715 




973 

830 


64 3 


1871-72 6 




71 


1872-73 






1873-74 




















1874-75 


3,961 


3,898 
3,632 
4,175 
4,796 
4,671 
4,597 
4,572 
4,624 
4,824 
5,218 
5,391 
5,583 
5,583 
5,702 
6,009 
6,308 


<27.20 
'"22.'56" 

Vis.' 76' 

20.96 

4 23. 06 

<21.70 

* 22. 40 

24.76 

23.76 

27.59 

4 21.87 

4 22. 31 

4 21.14 

22.04 


86 

80 

81.5 

84.7 

84 

80 

80 

79 

80.2 

83 

82.4 
8 87.2 
970.5 

68.2 

69.5 

67.7 




1,286 


1,288 
1,02Z 
1,415 
1,461 
1,494 
1,512 
1,591 
1,566 
1,655 
1,797 
1,744 
1,925 
1,92.5 
1,958 
2, 064 
2,174 





83 


1875-76' 






1876-77 


309, 447 
370, 245 
376, 649 
387,769 
388, 003 
401,002 
403, 901 

419, 764 

420, 413 
450, 968 
452, 937 
485,551 
485, 025 
522,691 
550,522 
550,522 
579,887 
579,887 
590, 757 
590, 757 
590 757 
590; 757 
633, 546 
634, 061 
661,911 
675,536 
649,374 
659, 795 
679,051 
679, 051 
688, 634 
687,274 
687,398 
712,769 
712, 769 
727, 297 
727, 297 
774,976 


4,225 
4,800 
4,675 
4,615 
4,698 
4,564 
4,717 
5,182 
5,392 
5,490 
5,483 
5,593 
5,916 
6,143 




1,439 
1,462 
1,496 
1,521 
1,645 
1,508 
1,569 
1,724 
1,827 
1,829 
1,853 
1,875 
1,968 
2,070 


22.74 

'"26.'57' 
2;5.62 
23.15 
21.88 
22.10 
24.75 
22.78 
25.97 
21.58 
23.06 
21.15 
21.05 


77 


1877--8 




80 


1878-79 




79 


1879-80 

1880-81 

1881-82 

1882-83 


$130, 067 
285, 976 
264, 457 


67 

76 
78 
79 3 


1883-84 




83 


1884-85 




83 1 


1885-86 




87 2 


1886-87 




71 


18S7-88 




67 4 


1888-89 




69 2 


1889-90 




68 9 


1890-91 






1891-92 










. 










1892-93 


6,608 


6,687 




71 




2,196 
2,288 
2,351 
2,484 
2,466 
2,503 
2,301 
1,857 
1,886 
1,852 
1,791 
1,518 
1,417 
1,555 
1,646 
2,019 
2,126 
2,243 
2,384 
2,344 
2,371 
2,516 


2,248 
2,294 
2,326 
2,411 
2,347 
2,455 
2,320 


"is.n 

IS. 29 
17.70 
18.44 
17.66 


67 4 


1893-94 




65 


1894-95 


7,341 
7,388 
7,519 
7,591 
7,074 
6,063 
6, 302 
6,303 
6,029 
5,900 
5,716 
6,16.5 
6,519 
7,759 
8, 273 
8,677 
9,220 
9,442 
9, 486 
10,038 


7,073 
7,011 
6,989 
7,231 
6,966 
3,742 
6,199 
5,907 
6,028 
5,510 
4,036 
5,715 
6,020 
5,870 
6,240 
6,389 
6,566 
6,572 
6,6.55 
6,753 


24.03 
23.96 
22.97 
24.09 
25.05 


72.5 
72.5 
72 

72.8 
68 




65 3 


1895-96 




63 8 


1896-97 




64 2 


1897-98 




63 


1898-99 




62 


1899-1900 10. . . . 






1900-1901 

1901-2.. . 


32.25 
32.50 
33.00 
35.43 
40.18 


97 

105.8 
102 
105 
108 2 


934,065 
1,842,983 
1,622,178 
2,161,131 
2, 780, 022 
2,925,610 
10 1,957,702 
4,308,809 
5,175,247 
6,416,420 
7,358,173 
7,672,114 
7,886,496 
8,427,291 


1,962 
1,9.32 
1,777 
1,594 
1,468 
1,525 
1,813 
1,669 
1,880 
1,965 
1,976 
1,937 
1,972 
2,026 


22. 59 

22. 38 
22.79 
24.69 

23. 43 
24.52 
23. 53 
25.07 
25.23 
26.53 
33.02 
33. .35 
34.40 
30.70 


82.7 
93 


1902-3 


93 


1903-4 


89 4 


1904-5 


92 


1905-6 


41.60 109.7 


87 3 


1906-7. 


43. 75 
48.52 
50.92 
51.60 
57.77 
54.50 
57.20 
58.34 


112.8 

123 

128 

131 

127 

132 

133 

135 


88 8 


1907-8.. . 


95 


1908-9 


98 


1909-10 

1910-11 

1911-12 

1912-13 

191S-14 


90 
95 
96 
97 
104 



1 School ape in 1855, 5-18; in 18.56 and 1857, 6-21 ; in 186.8-69 to 1874-75 it was 5-21; beginning with 1875-76 
it has since been 7-21. 

2 Census of 1860. 

3 For year Oct. 1, 1869, to Jan. 1, 1871. 
' Pay of all teachers, white and black. 

5 For year Jan. 1 to Oct. 1, 1871. 

6 For year Oct. 1, 1871, to Sept. 30, 1872; 22 counties not reporting. 
' 51 counties only reporting. 

8 Includes all schools, rural and special district. 

9 Includes country districts only. 
'0 Reports incomplete. 

197 



198 



PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Table 2. — Enrollment and attendance. 





Total 
school 
enroll- 
ment. 


Per 
cent of 
total 
school 
popu- 
lation. 


Average 
school attendance. 


Negro. 


Years. 


Num- 
ber. 


Per 
cent of 
enroll- 
ment 
in aver- 
age at- 
tend- 
ance. 


Per 
cent of 
school 
popu- 
lation 
in aver- 
age at- 
tend- 
ance. 


School 
popu- 
lation. 


School 
enroll- 
ment. 


Per 
cent of 
school 
popu- 
lation 

en- 
rolled. 


Aver- 
age 
school 
attend- 
ance. 


Per 
cent of 
enroll- 
ment 
in aver- 
age at- 
tend- 
ance. 


Per 
cent of 
school 
popu- 
lation 
in aver- 
age at- 
tend- 
ance. 


1855 
























1856 


89, 160 
89,013 

98,274 


52.1 
49.9 


38,265 
39,887 
42,274 


42.9 

44.8 


22.4 
22.4 














1857 














1858 














1859 



















1860 


161,751 






















1861-68 






















1868-69 


2160,000 


43.1 




















1869-70 


52,060 
107,666 
73,927 






157,918 
164,671 

'im,m 

172,506 
172,537 






16,097 
41,308 
28,406 






1871 

1871-72 


141,312 
103,615 


35.4 
25.6 


76.2 
71.3 


26.9 
18.3 


54,336 
41,673 


33.0 


76.0 


25.1 


1872-73 






1873-74 






















1874-75 

1875-76 


145,797 
126,891 
143,571 
160,713 
174,585 
179,490 
170,389 
177,428 
200,513 
215,578 
233,909 
252,871 
251,700 
258,590 
261,667 
292,052 


35.9 


110,253 


75.6 


27.1 


54,595 
48,716 
54,949 
63,914 
67,635 
72,007 
68,951 
69,479 
80,420 
84,065 
90,872 
104,150 
98,396 
98,919 
101,649 
111,648 


31.5 


43,229 


79.2 


25.0 


1876-77 

1877-78 

1878-79 

1879-80 

1880-81 

1881-82 

1882-83 

1883-84 

1884-85 

1885-86 

1886-87 

1887-88 

1888-89 

1889-90 

1890-91 


38.8 
43.4 
46.3 
46.3 
45.4 
44.2 
49.6 
51.4 
55.6 
56.0 
55.5 
53.3 
53.9 
55.9 


103,018 
99,125 
112,374 
117,978 
115,310 
114,527 
127,016 
134,410 
144,572 
152,770 
157,718 
165,099 
165,528 
175, 168 


71.8 
61.1 
64.5 
65.7 
65.4 
64.5 
62.3 
62.4 
61.8 
60.4 
62.6 
63.9 
63.2 
59.6 


27.9 
26.7 
29.9 
30.4 
29.1 
28.5 
31.4 
32.1 
32.9 
33.9 
34.8 
34.0 
34.2 
33.5 


iss, io8 

155,525 
162,551 
170,449 
170,413 
176,538 
178,858 
186,209 
180,512 
201,331 
201,331 
212,821 
212,931 
226,925 
240,894 


35.4 
41.6 
40.9 
42.2 
40.5 
39.3 
44.9 
45.1 
48.7 
51.7 
48.9 
46.5 
47.7 
49.2 


40,222 
41,659 
46,438 
50, 184 
48,476 
47, 146 
53,143 
55,595 
59,716 
62,673 
63, 995 
66, 424 
66,888 
69,507 


73.2 
65.2 
68.6 
69.4 
70.3 
67.8 
66.1 
63.7 
65.7 
60.1 
65.0 
67.1 
65.8 
62.2 


25.9 
20.7 
28.5 
29.4 
28.4 
26.7 
29.7 
29.8 
32.5 
31.1 
31.8 
31.2 
31.4 
30.6 


1891-92 






















1892-93 


306,014 


52.9 








259,355 


115,709 


44.6 








1893-94 














1894-95 


323,049 
331,557 
348,899 
341,638 
319,214 
■'215,693 
359,493 
365,816 
343,411 
339,726 
357,661 
382,821 
394,482 
386.478 
405,226 
422,795 
431,707 
424,075 
428,625 
468, 154 


54.6 
56.1 
59.0 
57.8 
50.4 








268, 113 


118,689 
124,618 
132,413 
129,955 
122,915 
3 69,763 
125,085 
126,116 
112,274 
117,690 
117,044 
126,989 
134,005 
127,480 
133,316 
142,813 
144,605 
136,272 
134,870 
147,812 


44.2 








1895-96 














1896-97 


















1897-98 


















1898-99 








282,879 
282,733 
295,906 
301,496 
277, 659 
302,834 
302, 115 
302, 115 
307, 664 
307,252 
305,938 
322, 707 
322, 707 
328,024 
328,024 
342,425 


43.4 








1899-1900... 














1900-1901 . . . 

1901-2 

1902-3 

1903-4 

1904-^ 

1905-6 

1906-7 


54.3 
54.2 
52.9 
51.5 
52.7 
56.3 
57.3 
56.2 
58.9 
59.3 
60.6 
58.3 
58.9 
60.5 


168,484 
188,269 
163,137 
208,364 
208,816 
245,441 
210,952 
249,030 
264,448 
265,570 


46.9 
51.4 

47.8 
61.3 
58.4 
64.1 


25.4 
27.8 
25.1 
31.7 
30.7 
36.1 


42.3 
41.8 
44.3 
38.8 
38.7 
42.0 
43.5 
41.8 
43.5 
44.2 
44.8 
41.5 
41.1 
43.1 


65,055 
68,573 
56,588 
64,992 
72,841 
74,987 
3 75,297 
86,093 
87,730 
89,008 


52.0 
54.3 
50.4 
55.2 
62.2 
59.0 
56.2 
67.5 
65.3 
62.3 


21.9 

22.7 
23.4 
21.4 
24.1 
24.8 
24.5 


1907-8 

1908-9 

1909-10 

1910-11 


61.8 
65.2 

62.8 


36.3 
38.5 
37.2 


28.0 
28.7 
26.6 


1911-12 

1912-13 

1913-14 


254,265 
259, 768 
288,607 


59.5 
60.6 
61.6 


34.9 
35.7 
37.2 


79,905 
82,871 
92,078 


58.6 
61.4 
62.3 


24.3 
28.3 
26.9 



1 Census of 1860. 



2 Estimated. 



3 Reports incomplete. 



PUBLIC SCHOOL STATISTICS, 1850-1914. 
Table 3. — School revenices. 



199 



Invested 
funds: 
Six- 
teenth 
section 
funds 
and sur- 
plus rev- 
enue. 



Miscel- 
laneous, 
includ- 
ing bal- 
ances. 



State ap- 
propria- 
tions, 
special 
and gen- 
eral. 



Poll tax. 



Constitu- 
tional one- 
fifth mill 
special 
tax. 



City and 
county 

appropri- 
ations. 



Total. 



Avail- 
able 
funds 

per 
capita 

of 
school 
popu- 
lation. 



$135 
151 
173 
151 



$1,534 
16,372 
8,790 
19,463 



$100,000 
100,000 
100,000 
100,000 



198, 
198, 
166, 
199, 
200, 
200, 
200, 
100, 
100, 
137, 
137, 
137, 
138, 
138, 
139, 
140, 
141, 
141, 
141, 
142, 
143, 
143, 
144, 
145, 
145, 
)45, 
146, 
145, 
145, 
145, 
» 145, 
11 149, 
11 1.50, 
11153, 



26,514 
4,000 



2,000 
14,000 
13,142 



300,000 
160,903 
100,000 
54,276 



2,050 
121 



518 

5,197 

1,253 

923 

11,864 

690 

9 2,490 

3,920 

7,264 

38,239 

182,049 

53,538 

52,277 

57,018 

.52,372 

166,635 

98,950 

168,888 

184,680 

168, 794 

57,584 

163,969 

•78,240 

97,545 



150,000 
150,000 
130,000 
130,000 
130,000 
130,000 
130,000 
130,000 
230,000 
230,000 
230,000 
230,000 
250,000 
250,000 
350,000 
350,000 
350,000 
350,000 
350,000 
350,000 
350,000 
350,000 
350,000 
450,000 
450,000 
550,000 
550,000 



$82,580 
113,505 
115,642 
80,487 
73,817 
96,414 
116,627 
110,135 
120,125 
124,597 
128,212 
123,398 
136,7.33 
135, 784 
138,010 
148,085 
9 136,896 
135,127 
137,861 
151,222 
152,803 
146,545 
145, 702 
143,751 
143,357 
145,235 
146,374 
153,448 
150,416 
152,853 
156,043 
145,593 



$137,290 
232,462 
235,525 
193,046 
180,502 
209,887 



6 60, 145 
8 76,412 



8 23, 186 



1174,183 
! 184,359 
< 200,000 



12 245,246 
12 257, 129 



$103,640 
139,841 
237,515 



267 

281 

280 

275 

1283: 

1283 

231 

268 

233 

112 

413 

290 

45 

6 524 

500 

581 

604 

522 

474; 

484, 

348, 

367, 

377, 

388, 

397, 

397, 

392, 

418, 

9 506, 

9511, 

523, 

515, 

10 566, 

713, 



690 
874 
253 
965 
870 
870 
774 
731 
978 
783 
849 
250 
411 
622 
409 
389 
979 
,811 
347 
214 
891 
243 
560 
215 
465 
479 
905 
006 
499 
540 
353 
990 
460 
198 



$1.63 
1.56 
1.58 



699,765 
698,672 
693,610 
806,271 
738,577 
809,124 
826,054 
817,242 
803,000 
916,059 
1,180,283 
1,204,135 



1.47 
1.29 
1.46 
1.50 
1.29 
1.17 
1.19 
.85 
.99 
1.02 
1.04 
1.03 
1.03 
.98 
1.03 
1.21 
1.22 
1.17 
1.14 
1.17 
1.47 
1.34 
1.27 
1.27 
1.20. 
1.40 
1.26 
1.37 
1.40 
1.39 
1.27 
1.44 
1.67 
1.79 



1 Estimated. 

2 Income 1860-1865 from auditor's reports. 

3 Income 1865-1868 from superintendent's reports. 

* Income 1868-69 to 1877-78 from superintendent's report for 1877-78, p. xxxviii. 

5 .\uditor's figures begin. 

6 For 15 months, Oct. 1, 1869, to Jan. 1, 1871. 

' For 9 months, Jan. 1 to Oct. 1, 1871. Since that date the fiscal year has run Oct. 1 to Sept. 30. 

8 Figures in this colunm, 1879-80 to and including 1889-90, are private contributions and not counted 
in auditor's report. 

9 Figures of superintendent; poll tax then a local matter and not reported to auditor. 

10 Income 1887-88 to date from auditor's reports. Prior to 18S7-SS totals exceed auditor's by amount 
of poll tax. Prior to 188:5 auditor gives onlv receipts of sixteenth section funds. 

11 The law of Feb. 23, 1899, and subsequent laws provided $165,000 to cover the total interest carried by 
these funds. . . , . , 

12 From 1900-1901 the figures in this column are the special State tax of 10 cents on the hundred levied 
by the legislature of 1899 and the 30-cent tax provided by the constitution of 1901. 



200 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Table 3. — School revenues — Continued. 



Years. 


Invested 
funds: 
Six- 
teenth 
section 
funds 
and sur- 
plus rev- 
enue. 


Miscel- 
laneous, 
includ- 
ing bal- 
ances. 


State ap- 
propria- 
tions, 
special 
and gen- 
eral. 


Poll tax. 


Constitu- 
tional one- 
fifth mill 
special 
tax. 


City and 
county 

appropri- 
ations. 


Total. 


Avail- 
able 
funds 
per 
capita 

of 
school 
popu- 
lation. 


1902 3 


'$1.54,400 
11.54,882 
1155,667 
11.56,496 
157,653 

158,256 
1.59,192 
160,041 
160,232 
161,054 
162,024 
167,798 


$89, 151 
73,264 
80,934 
85,098 
60,766 

51,203 
6 59,430 

651,411 
6 60,771 
6 57,2.35 
6 73,929 
(«) 


$550, 000 
550,000 


$100,893 
126,517 
89,811 
117,, 5(56 
101,710 

124,443 
102,959 
245,112 
143,988 
179,096 
136,836 
204,860 


2 $273, 437 
2 281,211 
2 880, 545 
2 927,423 
2 982,334 

2 1,070,000 
2 1,282,818 
2 1,358,082 
2 1,399,371 
2 1,482,594 
2 1,565,472 
2 1,734,302 




3 $1,167,887 

1,185,874 

1,206,957 

1,286,583 

1,302,463 

/ 5 2,367,662 

\ 1,703,908 

/ 2,562,642 

\ 1,9.54,399 

f 2,894,836 

\ 2,164,646 

/ 3,719,313 

\ 2,114,362 

/ 3,703,711 

\ 2,229,979 

/ M,. 304, 571 

\ 2,288,202 

/ 10 4,446,076 

\ 2,434,662 


$1.78 


1903_4 




1.80 


1904-5 




1.78 


1905-6 






1.90 


1906-7 






1.89 


1907-8 


300,000 
350,000 
3.50,000 
350,000 
3.50,000 
3.50,000 
350,000 


4 $663,754 

508,243 

730,140 

1,604,951 

1,589,349 

M, 002, Oil 

9 531,937 


1 3.44 
\ 3.73 
1 4.06 


190S-9 


1909-10 


1910-11 


1 5.22 


1911-12 


1 5.09 


1912-13 


1 5. 92 
\ 5.74 


1913-14. 





1 The law of Feb. 23, 1899, and subsequent laws provided $165,000 to cover the total interest earned by 
these funds. 

2 From 1900-1901 the figures in this column are the special State tax of 10 cents on the hundred levied 
by the legislature of 1899 and the 30-cent tax provided by the constitution of 1901. 

3 These are the auditor's figures, which represent the sums passing through the State treasury. The 
superintendent reports for this year $1 ,2S9,.399, which is equal to the sums reported by the auditor increased 
by local, city, and county funds which do not pass through the State treasury. 

4 This column stands for local funds contributed by cities and county funds raised by the special 10- 
cent county school tax. 

6 Top row gives superintendent's figures, found by adding to the auditor's total (bottom row), the 
local, county, and city contributions given in column 6. There are also included in the superintendent's 
total various miscellaneous sums like fees, supplements by patrons, etc. 

6 Not found in the auditor's report but made up by subtracting from his total the total of columns 1, 
3, 4, 5. In 1913-14 the amount apportioned was less than the total of these columns. 

' Superintendent's report, 1912-13, p. 147. 

8 Ibid., p. 144. 

8 City appropriations only. 
1" Superintendent's report, 1913-14, p. 119. 

Table 4. — School expenditures. 



Years. 


Total for 

white 
teachers. 


Miscella- 
neous, in- 
cluding 
supervi- 
sion and 
adminis- 
tration. 


Normal 
schools. 


Total for 
negro 

teachers. 


Total ex- 
penditures, 
all purposes. 


Balance 
on hand. 


1855 










1 $146,825 
2 490,278 
2 552,984 




1856 












18.57 












18,58 


3 $.564, 210 










1859 












1860 - . . 










2 489, 274 

4 2^3,870 

231,774 

268,731 

233,978 

112,783 

6 413,849 

6 290,250 




1861 












1862 












1863 












1864 . . . 












1865 












isf^s-ee 












1866-67 













1 From treasury for ail pm-poses. 

2 Includes local funds, not reported to auditor. 

3 This item is substantially like those for 1856 and 1857. 
for teaching. 

■1 This was the amount reported to auditor. 

6 Amount apportioned, but not all was used for schools. 



Practically all expenditures of those days were 



PUBLIC SCHOOL STATISTICS^ 1850-1914:. 
Table 4. — School expenditures — Continued. 



201 



Years. 



Total for 

white 
teachers. 



Miscella- 
neous, in- 
cluding 
supervi- 
sion and 
adminis- 
tration. 



Normal 
schools. 



Total for 

negro 
teachers. 



Total ex- 
penditures, 
all purposes. 



Balance 
on hand. 



1867-68... 
18&8-69... 
1869-70. . . 

1871 

1871-72... 
1872-73... 
1873-74... 
1874-75... 
1875-76. . . 
1876-77... 
1877-78... 
1878-79... 
1879-80... 
1880^1... 
1881-82... 
1882-83... 
1883-84... 
1884-85. . . 
1885-86... 
ia86-87... 
1887-88... 
1888-89... 
1889-90... 
1890-91... 
1891-92... 
1892-93... 
1893-94... 
1894-95. . . 
1895-96. . . 
1896-97... 
1897-98... 
1898-99... 
1899-1900. 
1900-1.... 
1901-2.... 
1902-3.... 
1903-4.... 
1904-5. . . . 
1905-6. . . . 
190()-7.... 

1907-8. . . . 



1908-9. . 
1900-10. 
1910-11. 
1911-12. 
191'2-13. 
1913-14. 



1 $269, 569 
1317,416 
318, 288 
271,420 
204,791 
282, 390 
195, 860 
228,817 
204, 581 
208, 569 
203, 681 
225, 868 
222,996 
252, 740 
285, 650 
298, 260 
303,661 
291,884 
294, 181 
205, 906 
323, 737 
330, 896 



5 55.5,360 



6 904, 100 
6 902,510 



1,922,334 
2, 143, 662 
2,417,379 
'2,507,669 
'2,553,364 
'2,704,565 
'2,962,168 



$52,662 
10,913 
40, 750 
40,550 
37,050 
28,050 
30, 587 
6, 1.50 
7,582 
6,077 
12,615 
12,048 
12,420 
12,215 
12, 860 
14,446 
14,691 
15, 661 
15, 555 
13, 993 
16,099 
15, 866 
16, 129 



786,062 
708, 185 
678, 196 
910,683 



$5,372 
25, 000 



10, 750 
9,750 
8,000 
10, 000 
S,000 
10,000 
10, 000 
10,000 
13, .500 
13,500 
15,500 
15, 500 
21 ',500 
21,500 
25, 500 
25, 500 
36, 500 
23,000 
39, 500 
30, 500 
30,000 
30, 000 
30, 000 
31,000 
32,000 
32,000 
32,000 
32,000 
32, 000 
44, 500 
14,500 
44,500 
54, 500 
54, 500 
54, .500 
54, 500 

74,500 

79,500 

85,700 

85,500 

118,500 

114,500 

114,500 



'$194,927 
I 230,. 357 
234,600 
202,812 
163,460 
207, 102 
141,416 
159,864 
148, 423 
155, 850 
158,913 
158,902 
152, 890 
167,398 
202, 131 
204,499 
198, 221 
194,380 
183,934 
201,218 
208, 180 
208,995 



(») 



273,001 
287,045 
329,095 
357, 585 
375, 192 
395,674 
401,607 



1 $44, 773 

.502, 156 

1491,193 

1 5S8, 523 
605,420 
521,032 
•104,301 
530, 079 
351,426 
396, 266 
369,080 
387,033 
388, 141 

2 410,6C0 
2 403, C02 
2 44S, 4PS 
2 522, 727 
2 538, 950 
2 543,044 

2 527,320 

3 385, 159 
659, S03 
648, 135 
644,656 
647,400 
530,015 
554,092 
571,384 
625, 715 
658, 539 
760, 804 
645, 877 
840,943 

1,084,331 
1,119,397 
1,098,113 
1,107,856 
1,124,782 
1,228,393 
1,253,825 

■7 2,195,335 
1,652,916 
2,431,708 
1,905,993 
2, 746 j 473 
2, 105, 173 
3,719,313 
2,079,004 

' 3,547,355 
2,031,039 

' 3,888,593 
2, 126, 379 

'74,274,458 
2,273,436 



$9,216 
2, 082 
1,641 
3,420 
779 
2,605 
70 



141 

8, 303 

9,325 

427 

2 11,50(.) 

2 090 

2 1, ISO 



= 3,421 
2 585 

181,301 
53,395 

4 50, 563 

* 55, 109 
51,272 

163,595 
97,264 

167, 193 

183,409 

167, 514 
56,438 

157, 123 
75, 116 
95, 952 
81, 738 
69, 773 
78,018 
82. 175 
58, lOO 
48, 038 
7 172,327 
50,992 

130, 933 
48,405 

148,363 
59,473 

106, 225 
35, 358 

155, 756 
54,336 

104,978 
17,223 

171,618 
15,501 



1 Amount apportioned, but not all was used for schools. 

2 Superintendent's figures. 

3 .\uditor's flg\ires begin. 

* Includes local funds, not reported to auditor. 

5 Includes white and black. 

6 Includes supervision; white and black. 

7 Top row gives superintendent's figures and includes local county and city funds, of column 6, table 3; 
lower row gives auditor's figures, who excludes all funds that do not pass through State treasury. 

8 Presumably includes greater part of sums paid for supervision. 



202 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Table 5. — Assessed valuation of property. 



1848 i$191,761,000 

1849 262,536,000 

1850 266,381,000 

1851 266,353,000 

1852 279,233,000 

1853 289,289,000 

1854 292,021,000 

1855 

1856 2110,992,000 

1857 2122,295,000 

1858 2 126,949,000 

1859-1875 

1876 135,535,000 

1877 130,799,000 

1878 126,773,000 

1879 123,757,000 

1880 139,077,000 



1881 $152,920,000 

1882 151,520,000 

18.83 158,518,000 

1884 167,124,000 

18S5 172,528,000 

1888 173,808,000 

1887 214,925,000 

1888 228,869,000 

1889 245,917,000 

1890 258,979,000 

1891 275,316,000 

1892 260,926,000 

1893 263,081,000 

1894 244,586,000 

1S95 242,537.000 

1893 246,083,000 

1897 259,427,000 



1898 $260,201,000 

1899 262,144,000 

1900 270,408,000 

1901 288,657,000 

1902 298,440,000 

1903 311,100,000 

1904 326,173,000 

1905 347,228,000 

1906 374,850,000 

1907 450,288,000 

1908 467,784,000 

1909 484,350,000 

1910 508,568,000 

1911 541,764,000 

1912 566,807,000 

1913 580,588,000 

1914 615,380,000 



1 Includes slaves. 



2 Slaves not included. 



ADDETsTDUM. 

After the above story of public school education was put into type 
the State legislature met in its regular quadrennial session early in 
January, 1915, and after remaining in session for 20 legislative days 
adjourned on February 19 to reassemble on July 13„ 1915. 

The principal educational work accomplished includes an act 
providing for a literacy commission, and an act authorizing the 
State board of examiners to grant teacher certificates to graduates 
of certain institutions of higher learning who have had an amount of 
professional training approved by said board of examiners, and to 
those who hold unexpired certificates in other States for a time not 
to exceed that of the unexpired certificate. 

By a two-thirds vote the legislature submitted to the people for 
popular ratification a proposed amendment to the State constitution, 
providing that the counties be given power to levy a special tax 
not exceeding 50 cents on SI 00 and that the school districts, includ- 
ing incorporated cities or towns, be also given power to levy a 
special tax of not over 50 cents on $100, provided "that no district 
tax shall be voted or collected except in such counties as are 
levying and collecting not less than a 3-mill special county tax." 
No tax may be levied except by consent of the majority of the voters, 
who may also fix the rate and the time the tax is to continue. 

This tax proposition will be passed on by the electors at the regular 
election to be held in November, 1916. In a final word of exhortation 
Supt. Feagin says in his last report : 

The several lines of improvement suggested in this report, including better teachers, 
longer terms, better attendance, better buildings, better equipment, better organi- 
zation, better administration, better supervision, all depend upon the willingness 
and authority of the taxpayers to finance the same. * * * In a word, if Ala- 
bama's educational needs were to be resolved into one supreme requirement and that 
requirement were translated into law, it should be written large: Local taxation, 
first by counties, and then by districts. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN 

ALABAMA. 



1. PRIMARY SOURCES. 

Official Letter Books (MS.). 

W. F. Perry, April 9, 1857, to March 8, 1858. 

Deals with sixteenth section lands, notes,[payments, and intCTest; with trustees of to-\vnships, their 
appointments, qualifications, and duties, and with the troubles of teachers. Local and detailed, 
little of State or general significance. 

G. B. Duval, September 20, 1858, to May 5, 1860. 

Deals with deaf and dumb institutions, sixteenth sections, moneys, notes, interest, etc.— tha 
details of the system, little on the principles. 

Duval, Allen, anc? Taylor, June 1, 1860, to April 29, 1865. 

Of considerable value; contains practically all that we have of the war period. 

Dr. N. B. Cloud, June 26 to August 14, 1869. 

Only a few letters copied and these of slight value. 

J. H. Speed, January 6 to October 1, 1873. 

Occupied mainly in telling why there could be no schools opened that year. 

Associations, Official Reports, Educational Journals, etc. 

Alabama educational association. Proceedings, 1856, 1857, 1858, 1859, 1883 (MS.) 

1884-1914. 
Alabama educational journal. Vol. 1, January-December, 1857. Folio, edited by 

W. F. Perry. Vol. 2, October, 1858-September, 1859. Octavo, edited by 

Noah K. Davis. 
Alabama historical society, transactions, vols. 1-4, 1897-98, 1898-99, 1899-1903. 
These volumes contain many contributions of value in a study of education. 

Alabama journal of education, Montgomery, April, 1871 (May, 1871, vol. 1, no. 2, is 
first one actually seen)-June, 1871. 

Alabama progress, Montgomery, March 18, 1882-August 25, 1883. 

Alabama State teachers' association (colored). Proceedings, 1889, 1896. 

Alabama teachers' journal, Huntsville, July (December, 1885, vol. 1, no. 6, is the 
earliest number seen)-September, 1889 (vol. 4, no. 12). 

City school reports, since 1886-87. Isio earlier years seen. Birmingham, Montgom- 
ery, and other towns. 

Constitutions, Federal and State, ed. by Francis Newton Thorpe. 

Department of Education. Reports of the State superintendent, 1856 to date, so far 
as published except 1865. 

. Bulletin No. 43. — An educational survey of three counties in Alabama. 

Montgomery, 1914. 

Educational exchange, Birmingham-Montgomery-Birmingham, April, 1889 (vol. 1, no. 
1) to date. 
No volumes 5 and 6 apparently. 

Educator, Huntsville, vol. 16, no. 11, is for December, 1913. 

A monthly educational and industrial journal edited in the interests of the negroes. 

Laws. Session laws, codes, or revisals. 
From the earliest times to date. 

203 



204 PUBLIC SCHOOL EDUCATION IN ALABAMA. 

Mobile. ^The board of school commissioners and the public school system of the 
city and county of Mobile. 18G9. 
Not seen. 

Porter, B. F. Argument in support of a bill introduced by him into the House of 
Representatives "for the preservation of the sixteenth section grants, and to 
establish permanently, in the State of Alabama, a common school fund so as to 
fully secure the intellectual improvement and moral welfare of the youth of the 
State." n. p. [1847-48.] 
Copy in the Currj' Collection. 

Public documents to date. Including auditors' reports, treasurer's reports, governor's 
messages, Senate and House journals, and accompanying papers, etc. 

Report from the Committee on education on the subject of public schools, ilont- 
gomery, 1852. 14 p. 8°. 

Signed Charles P. Robinson, cli. House com. on ed., with proposed bill (which failed to become law). 

Report of the House committee on education, A. B. Meek, chairman. Protests of 
members of the Senate and of the House against the bill enacted into law. 
In House and Senate journals, 1853-54. 
Also printed as separates in Curry Collection, Montgomery, 1854. 15+11 p. 8°. 

Report of the Judiciary committee to whom was referred the "Resolution of inquiry" 
into alleged "Illegal use, or unlawful application of the public money, or any 
part of the school fund for Mobile county, or other public fund." Montgomery, 
1870. 
School laws, 1854 to date, all special editions. 

Southern educational journal and family magazine. Ed. by F. H. Brooks, Mobile, 
1844. 
Bureau of education has vol. 1, nos. 4-6, January-March, 1844. No others seen. 
Said by Owen to be the first educational journal published in the State. 

Southern teacher. Ed. by W. S. Barton, Montgomery, 1859-61, bimonthly and 
monthly. Vol. 1, July 1859 to July 1860. Vol. 2, August 1860 to April 1861. 

The November number, I860, is vol. 2, no. 4; April 1861 is vol. 2, no. 9. No other copies seen. These 
are the property of the Alabama State department of archives and history. 

Speed, Joseph H. Address delivered before the Board of education, November 23, 

1872. Montgomery, 1872. 11 p. 8°. 
State board of education. Journals, 1868-74. 
Acts passed by State board of education, 1868-74. 

Supreme court reports. Vols. 34, 44, 82, 83, 115, 140, 165, 180. 
United States Census reports, 1840-1910. 
United States Statutes at large. 

Many laws in the earlier volumes deal with Alabama. 

2. SECONDARY SOURCES. 

Baldwin, Joseph G. The flush times of Alabama and Mississippi. New York, 1853. 
Blandin, Mrs. Isabella M. E. History of higher education of women in the South 
prior to 1860. Washington, 1909. 
Gives extended accounts of schools in Alabama. 

Brewer, Willis. Alabama: her history, resources, war record and public men, 

1540-1872. Montgomery, 1872. 
Clark, Willis G. History of education in Alabama, 1702-1889. Washington, 1889. 
Covers the whole field of education. 

, The progress of education. In Memorial Record of Alabama, I. pp. 154-216. 



Madison, Wis., 1893. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN ALABAMA. 205 

DuBoee, Joh.n W. The life and times of William Lowndes Yancey. Birmingham, 

1892. 
DuBose, Joel C. School history of Alabama. Richmond, Va. [cl908.] 
Fleming, Walter L. Civil war and reconstruction in Alabama. New York, 1905. 
Based on sources; generally fair and accurate; but frankly pro-Southern. 

Garrett, William. Reminiscences of public men in Alabama for thirty years. At- 
lanta, 1872. 
Mainly biographical. 

Hamilton, Peter J. Colonial Mobile. Boston, 1897. Second edition in 1910. 
See especially the second edition, passim. 

Mobile of the Five Flags. Mobile, 1913. 

Hodgson, Joseph. The cradle of the Confederacy. Mobile, 1876. 

Owen, Thomas M. Bibliography of Alabama. Washington, Amer. historical asso- 
ciation, 1898. 

An exceedingly valuable classification and review of the materials relating to the history of the 
State. 

Alabama Library List. Montgomery, 1912. 

An annotated list of books suitable for rural schools, other elementary and grammar schools, high 
schools, and small public libraries. 

Second edition. Montgomery, 1913. 

Forms State Department of Education Bulletin, No. 39. 

Perry, William F. The genesis of public education in Alabama. In Alabama his- 
torical society. Transactions, II, 1897-1898. p. 14-27. 

Pickett, Albert James. History of Alabama and incidentally of Georgia and Missis- 
sippi. Annals of Alabama, 1819-1900, by Thomas M. Owen. Birmingham, 1900. 

Reynolds, Bernard. Sketches of Mobile from 1814 to the present time. Mobile, 1868, 



II^DEX 



Abercrombie, J. W., and public schools of Ala- 
bama, 135; and secondary education, 184-1S5; rec- 
ommendations for public schools, 138-139. 

Academies. See Private schools. 

Academy, near Statesville, Autauga County, 20. 

Administration of schools^ 50; unification, 149. 

Agricultural education, discussion, 51-52. 

Agricultural experiment stations, establishment, 
132. 

Agricultural schools, district, organization and his- 
tory, 136-137, 17S-180. 

Agricultural Society, Greensborough, property, 19. 

Alabama, evolution of, 7-15. 

.\labama, Territory of, districts, 11-13; established 
by Congress_, 8. 

Alabama, University of, and secondary education, 
1S4-1S5; begins summer school, 144. 

Alabama Deaf and Dumb Asylum, work, 182. 

Alabama Educational Association, advocates local 
taxatioii, 121; organization, 76. 

Alabama Educational Journal, fotmded, 76. 

Alabama Female Institute, takes over property of 
Tuscaloosa Female Academy, 20. 

Alabama Girls' Technical Institute, work, 182-18:5. 

Alabama Institute of Literature and Industry, es- 
tablishment, 20. 

Alabama Journal of Education, merged into the 
"Advance," 160. 

Alabama Medical University, authorized to confer 
degree, 21. 

Alabama Polytechnic Institute, summer school for 
farmers, 144. 

Alabama Progress, establishment, 125, 125, 160. 

Alabama School for Deaf and Blind, work, 184. 

Alabama Teachers' Journal, founded, 126. 

Alabama (white) Boys' Industrial School, work, 
183-184. 

American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Mis- 
sions, industrial schools established, 23-24. 

American settlements, Tombigbee River, 11. 

Appropriations, 121, 134. 

Appropriations and expenditures, 104. 

Armstrong, H. C, and public schools in Alabama, 
119-120. 

Athens Female Academy, establishment, 18. 

Athens Male Academy, teachers and students 
exempted from military service, 19. 

Attendance, school, discussion, 196; statistics, 198. 

Baker, N. R., and rural school supervision, 17-!. 
Baldwin County, fund for schools, 24. 
Bank of Alabama, and school funds, 27-30. 
Barton Academy, used for public school, 44. 
Beginning of a new era (1898-1914), 135-140. 
Bibb, Governor, and education, 17. 
Bibliography, 203-205. 
Biloxi, settlement in 1699, 7. 
Birmingham, public schools. See City schools. 
Blind, education, 184. 
Blouritville Academy, fimds, 24. 
Board of education, State. See State Board of Edu- 
cation. 
Books for teachers, recommended, 67. 
Box, L. F., and public education, 118-119. 

Centenary Institute of the Alabama Conference of 

the Methodist Episcopal Church, authorized to 

confer degrees, 21. 
Central Masonic Institute. See Masonic University. 
Certificates, teachers, legislation regarding, 149-150. 
Chapman, Reuben, message regarding common 

schools and agricultural education, 51-52. 
Chickasaw Indians, schools, 23-24. 
Chisholm, M. A., service as State superintendent of 

schools, 84. 
Choctaw Indians, schools, 24. 



City schools, organization and development, 162- 
168. 

Civil War, education during, 78-83; private schools 
prior to, 16--25. 

Claiborne Academy, purchase of site, 18. 

Clark, T. H., on the boat as an emblem of progress, 
14. 

Clark, W. G., study of school systems, 45-46. 

Claxton, P. P., letter of transmittal, 5. 

Clayton Male and Female Academy, establishment, 
21; exempted from taxation, 25. 

Cloud, N. B., and public schools of Alabama, 89-90; 
on pay of public school teachers, 94; on recon- 
struction in the public schools, 84. 

Codification of school laws, 131. 

Colleges and universities, 20-22, 144, 184-185. 

Collier, H. ^\^, message regarding common schools, 
52-55. 

Commissioner of Education. See United States 
Commissioner of Education. 

Compulsory education, advocated, 149. 

Concord Academy, income, 18. 

Congressional district agricultural schools, law gov- 
erning them amended, 13f)-137. 

Constitution of 1S75, educational provisions, 114- 
116. 

Constitutionof 1901, educational provisions, 140-142. 

Coosawda Academy, property, 18. 

Council, W. H., and education of negroes, 171. 

County high schools. See High schools, county. 

County superintendents, appointment and duties, 
116-117; average salary in 1874-75, 109; protest 
against selecting from among lawyers and politi- 
cians, 121. 

County system, basis of administration, 143-144. 

Courses of study, 65-67; flexible, for ungraded 
country schools, 126; tendency to develop into 
cultural, 136. 

Curry, J. L. M., on education in Alabama, 128-129. 

Curry collection, 6. 

Dayton Literary Association, authorized to confer 
degrees, 21. 

Deaf and dumb, education, 182. 

Decatur , public schools. See City schools. 

Degrees, 20-21. 

De Narvaez, early visit, 7. 

De Soto, exploration, 7. 

District agricultural schools, organization, and his- 
tory, 178-180. 

Du Bose, J. C, associate professor of secondary edu- 
cation in LTniversity of Alabama, 185. 

Duval, G. B.,on educational conditions in Alabama, 
77-78. 

Economy in administrative expenses, 96. 

Educational fund. See School fund. 

Educational institutions (1850), 55. 

Educational journalism, 125-126, 160. 

Educational legislation. See School laws. 

Emollment, 69, 106, 120, 148, 198. 

Eufaula, public schools. See City schools. 

Evergreen Male and Female Academy, no spirits 
to be sold in vicinity, 21. 

Examinations, teachers, correction of evUs, 136. 

Expenditures, school, statistics, 200-201. 

Explorations, French and Spanish, 7-S. 

Feagin, Supt., on school improvement, 202. 

Fleming, \V. L., on State system ol textbooks, 95. 

Franklin Academy, holding of land, 20. 

Franklin Female Academy, exempted from taxa- 
tion, 19. 

Freedman's Bureau, work, 169. 

Funds public, schools supported in part, 23-25. 

General Education Board, and professorships of 
secondary education, 184-185. 

207 



208 



INDEX. 



Georgia, contention between United States, S; rela- 
tion to Alabama, 15. 

Girls' Industrial School. See Alabama Girls' Tech- 
nical Institute. 

Glover, E. C, on free textbooks, 148. 

Graded schools, progress, 126. 

Green Academy, establishment, IS; funds for 
schools, 24. 

Greenville Academy, property, 19. 

Gunnels, H . C, and public schools of Alabama, 139. 

Harris, E. R., on education in Alabama, 147. 

Harris, J. G., and public schools in Alabama, 127. 

Henry County Academy, lottery for buildings, 19. 

Highschool commission, 185. 

High schools, county, history, 184. 

Hill, I. \V., and public schools of Alabama, 142. 

Hobdy, J. B., supervision of rural schools, 175. 

Hodgson, Joseph, first conservative superintendent, 
96; on depressing elements in school life, 100; on 
negro education, 8.5-86. 

Howard College, allowed to grant degrees, 21. 

Hundley, O. H., and amendment of the constitu- 
tion. 130. 

Hundley constitutional amendment, 127-134. 

Huntsville Library Co., incorporation, 18. 

Huntsville State Colored Normal and Industrial 
School, work, 171. 

Illiteracy, statistics, 194-195. 

Immigration, development, 9-15. 

Income, school (1874-75), 110. 

Indian trails, lines of travel of immigrants, 12-13. 

Indians, mission schools, 23-24. 

Industrial education, negroes, 171-172. 

Industrial school for white girls, established, 131. 

Industrial schools, 23-24, 182-184. 

Jefferson Academy, establishment, 19; funds raised 
by lottery, 18. 

Journalism, educational. See Educational jour- 
nalism. 

Lafayette (Female) Academy, memorial to Congress 
for quarter section of land, 24. 

La Grange College, charter and plans enlarged, 22; 
establishment, 19. 

Lancastrian plan for school, Huntsville, 19. 

Land grants, sixteenth sections (1819-1914), public 
school support, 26-41. 

Land notes, sixteenth-section, 119. 

La Salle, idea of French Empire, 7. 

Laws, school. See School laws. 

Legislation, school. See School laws. 

Libraries and library organizations, rural schools, 
177-178. 

Lotteries, for educational purposes. See Private 
schools. 

Louisiana, Province of, encouragement of immigra- 
tion by English, 10-11. 

McGehee College, chartered, 22. 

Madison College, incorporation, 20. 

McKlerov, J. M., on educational conditions in Ala- 
bama, 106-109. 

Manual Labor Institute of South Alabama. Sec 
Madison College. 

Martin, W. J., on school lands, 39. 

Masonic University, established, 22. 

Medical College of the State of Alabama, chartered, 
22. 

Meek, A. B., and establishment of public school 
system, 58-63. 

Military education, appropriations, 79. 

Milton Academy, lottery for buUdiags, 18. 

Mission schools, for Indians, 23-24. 

Mobile, history of public schools, 162; income and 
expenditures of schools, statistics, 47; local taxa- 
tion for schools, 122; loss in annual revenue, 151; 
oldest settlement, 11; rise of public schools, 42-47; 
struggle between the old regime and the new, 
90-93. 

Mobile College, establishment, 20. 

Mobile County, system of schools, 115. 

Montgomerj', public schools. See City schools. 

Montgomery Academy, lottery for buildings, 18. 

Moulton Library Company, establishment, 18. 

Negroes, entitled to share of sixteenth-section fund, 
85-86; illiteracy, 194; schools, 1.50-157, 168-172, 175, 
198-202; statistics, 9; suffrage^ 191. 



Normal institutes, supported by Peabody fund, 125. 

Normal schools, histor\' and activities, 125, 155-161; 
statistics, 200-201; white male teachers, at Flor- 
ence, 101. 

North Alabama College, chartered, 22. 

O'Neal, Governor, on edticational legislation in 
Alabama, 153-154. 

Opelika, public schools. See City schools. 

Organization of schools, weakness of law of 1854, 
64-65. 

Owen, T. M., and rural school libraries, 177-178. 

Palmer, Solomon, and public schools of Alabama, 
120. 

Paterson, W. B., and negro education, 170. 

Peabody fund, and normal institutes, 125; training 
teachers, 157-158. 

Pedagogj', professorship, University of Alabama, 
184-185. 

Perry, W. F., and sixteenth-section funds, 116; 
on character and value of schoolhouses, 70; on 
condition of public schools, 56-57; defense of the 
county superintendents, 74; on increase of school 
fund, 70; onorganizationof schools, 63-64; on the 
textbook question, 77. 

Phillips, J. H., on local taxation of schools, 124. 

Phylomathian Society, establishment, 19. 

Pickett, A. J., on immigration to Louisiana, 11. 

Pierce, Jolin, and establishment of first American 
school, 17. 

Population, census of 1880, 14-15; statistical view of 
growth from 1800-1910, 9; statistical view of the 
sources, 1850-1900, 9; white, m 1850, 55. 

Population, school, statistics, 197. 

Porter, B. F., and sixteenth section grants, 30-32. 

Property, school, statistics, 197; value, 174. 

J'rivate schools, before the Civil War, 16-25; im- 
portance, 126. 

Public and private schools, differentiation between, 
50. 

Public schools, reorganization and progress (1876- 
1898), 114-134; (1856-1805), work, 69-83. 

Reading circles, teachers, history, 159; organiza- 
tion, 125. 

Reconstruction period, schools during, 84-113. 

Redistricting public schools, 142-143. 

Revenues, school, statistics, 199-200. 

Reynolds, R. M., on sale of school lands, 30-37. 

Roads, improvement by Federal Government, 13, 

Rural schools, libraries and library organizations 
177-178; statistics, 173-176. 

Rutland, J. R., and secondary education, 186. 

Ryan, J. B., on educational conditions in Alabama, 
83. 

St. Stephens Academy, establishment, 18. 

Salaries, county superintendents. See County su- 
perintendents' salaries. 

Salaries, teachers. See Teachers' salaries. 

School administration, 50. 

School attendance, discussion, 196. 

School codes of 1877 and 1879, 116, 119. 

School districts, creation of separate, 132; power to 
lew ta.xes, 122-124; taxation, 127. 

School expenditures, statistics, 200, 201. 

School fund, 58, 62, 107, 124, 135; administration of 
sixteenth section lana, 26-41; apijortionment, 75- 
76, 85, 97-98; appropriation during war period, 
79; distributed m the year 1856, 69-70; income, 
09,73; indebtedness of State to, 34, 35; insufficient 
to meet needs, 150; principal of the sixteenth sec- 
tion, 41; under constitution of 1901, 145. 

Schoolhouses, 44-45; character and value, 70-71; 
criticism, 144-145; issuing bonds for, 136; need of 
better, 126; rural, 172-173. 

School Improvement Association, and rural school 
work, 1 76. 

School indemnity lands, sale, 131. 

School laws, discussion, 71-73, 101-113; first passed, 
42-43; general administration of schools, 149; his- 
tory, 60-64; organization of public schools, 48--50; 
teachers' certificates, 149-150. See also School 
codes. 

School money, law regarding apportionment, 40. 

School organization, weakness of law of 1854, 64-65. 

School population, in the year 1856, 69; statistics, 
197. 



INDEX. 



209 



School property, statistics, 197, 202. 

School revenues, statistics. 199-200. 

School system, r4sum6 oi history and conditions, 
1S7-202. 

School term, in 1887-88, 124; minimum length fixed, 
137. 

School township, first incoi-poration, 27. 

School year, statistics, 197. 

Secondary education, and the University of Ala- 
bama, 184-185. 

Secondary schools. See High schools. 

Selma, public schools. See City schools. 

Settlements, early teiTitorial days, 11-13. 

Shepherd, C. O., on general interpretation of school 
law, 72-73. 

Sibley, J. L., supervision of negio rural schools, 175. 

Sixteenth-section land notes, 119. 

Slaughter, J. N., on method of selecting State and 
county superintendents, 121. 

Smith, Walter, on public-school buildings, 44. 

Solemn Grove Academy, armual income, 18. 

Somerville, James, on educational provisions of the 
constitution of 1875, 115-116. 

Southern Military Academy, funds raised by lot- 
tery, 22. 

Southwest Alabama Agricultural School and Ex- 
periment Station, work, 179. 

Sparta Academy, lottery for buildings, 18. 

Speed, J. H., on educational experiences of the past, 
101. 

Spring Hill College, permitted to confer degrees, 20. 

State board of education, establishment and func- 
tions, 87-88. 

State school system, experimental period in organ- 
ization, 48-57; organization, 58-68. 

State superintendent of schools, 56-57, 89-90, 96, 119- 
120, 135, 146, 202; duties, 61, 67-68; protest against 
selecting from among lawyers and politicians, 121. 

Statistics of educational institutions, public and 
private, 50. 

Statistics of public schools, 69-70, 78-79, 10-5-106, 
124-125, 148, 197-202; Reconstruction period, 94. 

Summer schools, 144. 

Summerfield Female Seminary, establishment, 
20. 

Superintendent, State. See State superintendent of 
schools. 

Superintendents, county. See County superintend- 
ents. 

Supervision, county, progress, 137; lack of efficient, 
in school act, 62; private schools, 16-17; rural 
schools, 174-175. 

Supreme Com-t of the United States, decision 
regarding school lands, 40. 



Taxation, public schools, increase in 1898-99, 121; 
local, 122-124, 133, 135-136; methods, 151; no law 
exempting school property till 1832, 16; recom- 
mendations, 151-152; school districts, 127; special 
districts, 126; under constitution of 1901, 140-142 

Taylor, J . B . , on educational conditions in Alabama, 
80-83. 

Teachers, examination and certification, 144; exam- 
inations, correction of evUs, 130; exempted from 
military service in 1825-26, 24; statistics, 197; total 
expenditures for, 200-201; training. See Normal 
schools. 

Teachers' associations, discussion, 15&-159; organi- 
zation, 125. 

Teachers' certificates, legislation, 149-150. 

Teachers' institutes, new law passed, 158; organi- 
zation, 125. 

Teachers' salaries, difference between city and rural 
instructors, 1.50; high schools, 186; in 18C7-72, 101; 
Reconstruction period, 94. 

Tennessee, relation to Alabama, 15. 

Textbook commission, created, 136. 

Textbooks, 66-67, 77; changes and variations, 126; 
State system dtiring Reconstruction period, 95. 

Thomas, J. S., and secondary education, 186. 

Township, school, first incorporation, 27. 

Tuition fees, public schools, 137. 

Turner, J. O., and public schools of Alabama, 131. 

Tuscaloosa, public schools. See City schools. 

Tascaloosa Female Academy, raising funds by 
lottery, 19. 

Tuscaloosa Library Company, property, 19. 

Tuskegee Normal School, establishment and work, 
171-172. 

United States Commissioner of Education, and 

education in Alabama, 127. 
University of Alabama, and secondary education, 

184-185; summer school, 144. 
Valley Creek Academy, grant of lands, 24. 
AVashington, Booker T., and negro education, 169, 

172. 
Washington Academy, establishment, 17. 
Wesleyan Female Academy, incorporation, 20. 
West Florida, reorganization of territory by Eng- 
lish, 8. 
Wilcox Society, property, 19. 
Willingham, H. J., and public schools in Alabama, 

146; on school attendance, 196. 
Winston, Governor, vetoes various college and 

academy acts, 16. 
Winston, J. A., on county superintendents, 73. 
Women, education, 18-19, 20-21, 24-25, 131, 182-183. 

See also Private schools. 



7^)075° -~ir,- 



-14 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note.— With the exceptions indicated, the documents named below will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t) are 
out of print.] 

1906. 

fNo. 1. Education bill of 1900 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. Anna T. Smith, 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Ilailmann. 
*No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to pubUc education, Oct. 1, 190^ 

to Oct. 1, 1900. Edward C Elliott. 15cts. 

1907. 

fNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 
tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James R. Jewell. 
fNo. .3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 
No. 4. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

fNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the public schools. I>iberty 11. Bailey. 

tNo. 2. List of pubUcations of the United States Biu'eau of Education, 1807-1907. 

tNo. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James IngersoU Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. lOcts. 

♦No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. IScts. 

tNo. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1900, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. EUiott. 
tNo. S . Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by the" 

State 1907-8. 

1909. 

*No. 1. FaciUties for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. lOcts. 
*No. 2. Admission of Chinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
*No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of exp^ 

rience, salaries. Edward L. Thomdike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
♦No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Heniy 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1907. 
♦No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
♦No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

♦No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1908-9. Sets. 

1910. 

♦No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: HI. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Ed\\ ard C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1807-1910. 
tNo. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 
♦No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 els. 
tNo. 0. Statistics of State imiversities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10: 

I 



n BULLETIN" OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the ITnited 

States. 5 cts. 
tNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and imiversities. 
tNo. S. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. BibUography of child study for the years 1908-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children in the pubUc schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harrj- E. King. 10 cts. 
fNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondarj' schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of pubUcations of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
tNo. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. II. Updegraff. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

*No. 1. A course of study for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F.Mutchler and W.J.Craig. 5 cts. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and AnnapoUs. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on uniform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 
*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. 5 cts. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12, 10 cts.) 
*No. 9. Country schools for city boys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. BibUography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics. No. I. 

tNo. 12. Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. Kilpatrick. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
*No. 14. Report of the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics. No. II. 
tNo. 16. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
♦No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
*No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper 5 cts. 
*No. 19. Professional distribution of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. 11. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegraff and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. PubUc and private high schools. 

*No. 23. Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. G. Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics, No. III. 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History of pubUc-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
*No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. Sets. 

No. 29. BibUography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and Ch&s. Goldziher. 

No. 30. Lai in- American imiversities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
tNo. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 

tNo. 32. BibUography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational pubUcations, January, 1913. 
♦No. 2. Training covu'ses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. "VV right. 5 cts. 
♦No. 3. The teaching of modem languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 
♦No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913.. 



I 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. HI 

*No. 6. Agricultural instruction in high schools. C. H. Robison and F. B. Jenks. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. * 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

tNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

tNo. 10. Monthly record of ciu-rcut educational puhlications, March, 1913. 

fNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the cfTiciency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

tNo. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational puMications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

tNo. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 
*No. 18. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

tNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., lor the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States. Georg Kerschensteiner. 

5 cts. 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
tNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

*No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
*No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
*No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 
tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
*No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
*No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school library. 15 cts. 
*No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1913. 
*No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmann. 
*No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
*No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
*No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
*No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

*No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
*No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and Adams Phillips. 
*No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 10 cts. 
*No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
*No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, Oct. 1, 1909, to Oct. 1,1912. James C. 

Boykin and William R. Hood. 
tNo. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. WUliam Knox Tate. 
tNo. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13 

1914. 

*No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
*No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfleld. 



rV BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. R. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, AprU, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 
♦No. 11. Monthly record of current educational puldications, May, 1914. 5 cts. 
♦No. 12. Rural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 

No. 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The public-school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, Septemlier, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools in Europe. Frank L. Glynn. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. "W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 
*No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 15 cts. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. ' 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. I.. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 
*No. 36. Education for the home — Parti. General statement. B.R.Andrews. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Education for the home — Part II. State legislation, schools, agencies. B.R.Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home— Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural school-teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O'Leary. 
No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 
No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 
No. 4. The health of school childi-en. W. H. Heck. 
No. 5. Organization of State departments of education. A. ('. Monahan. 
No. 6. A study of colleges and high schools. 

No. 7. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Samuel P. Capen. 
No. 8. Present status of the honor system in colleges and universities. Bird T. Baldwin. 
No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1915. 
No. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1915. 

No. 11. A statistical study of the public-school systems of the southern Appalachian Mountains Nor- 
man Frost. 
No. 12. History of public-school education in Alabama. Stephen B. Weeks. 



o 



UNITED STATES BUREAU OF EDUCATION 

BULLETIN. 1915. NO. 13 WHOLE NUMBER 638 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE 
POLLING PLACE 



By E. J. WARD 

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1915 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 



OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM 

THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

5 CENTS PER COPY 




88199°— 15. (To face page 3.) 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 



PART L— USE OF SCHOOLHOUSE FOR POLITICAL PURPOSES. 

It was a great day — last Tuesday, election. Above the scboolliouse the 
American flag was waving as always when school is in session. But it seemed 
to proclaim new meaning on Tuesday, for under its folds not the children 
only were gathering as on other days, but the adult citizens were also coming to 
participate in the great cooperation which makes of every neighborhood, every 
town, -each State, and of all America one equal fellowship. 

So wrote Principal and Civic Secretary M. T. Buckley, of Sank 
City, Wis., on November 7, 1914, a few days after the first election 
held in the public schoolhouse, the established civic center of that 
town. 

He continued : 

The ballot box was out in the open space at the front of the grammar room. 
It was not only the convenient but the truly appropriate location, for here, 
from its stand, ever the image of Lincoln companioned our citizens as — one by 
one — each cast his vote. The words from Lincoln's first inaugural came to my 
mind : " Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of 
the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world?" And then those 
words with which his second inaugural closed: "A just and lasting peace 
among ourselves and with all nations." And as I thouglit how, unto death, he 
strove for just this thing — that questions of difference might be settled by 
peaceful, orderly decision of majorities, instead of by irrational appeal to 
force — it seemed to me very strange that voting should ever be done anywhere 
else than in the public schoolhouse, where Lincoln's picture is, and where most 
purely and strongly his democratic sjiirit lives. 

BENEFICIAL TO THE SCHOOL. 

Close school on election day? Citizens coming here to vote might interfere 
with the regular educational process in this building? I would say that the 
boys and girls might better stay away from the schoolhouse on any other day 
than this, for here is the fundamental and supreme act of government. To 
witness this primary governmental cooperation gives to the youth a point of 
living contact for understanding the whole civic process beyond what is given 
by mere words and theory. It is not too much to say that the continuity 
of the educational process would be broken if the young people were not to 



4 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

come on the day that adult citizens gather here to vote, as it is broken in those 
communities where one building is used for civic training and another for this 
supreme civic expression. 

The day was what it ought to be everywhere — a day that made America 
mean something, something positive and rational, something not chance-directed, 
but socially controllable, something tremendously worth working for. 

VOTING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLHOUSES BECOMING GENERAL. 

The movement for making the public schoolhouse the polling place, 
which is a part of the first step in actual community center develop- 
ment, has made rapid progress during the past few years. It was 
of the growth and spread of this movement and the accompanying 
one of using the schoolhouses as civic forums that President Wilson 




Fig. 2. — The former location of the ballot box at Sauk City — in the building with the fire 

apparatus and the jail. 

said : " It must challenge to cooperation every man and woman who 
shares the spirit of America and appreciates the importance of visual- 
izing the common interest." 



IT IS ECONOMICAL. 



Among the reasons why public-school buildings are coming to be 
used for voting, perhaps the most obvious is economy. To use exist- 
ing public buildings obviates the needless expense of renting private 
places or purchasing, transporting, setting up, retransporting, and 
storing special booths for this purpose. The amount of this saving 
tends to increase with the growing frequency of elections. 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLIKG PLACE. 5 

This plain argument of economy was given impetus in the reso- 
lution unanimously adopted by the first national conference on 
teacher training for rural schools, at Chicago, September 26, 1914: 
"As a ready and practical means of saving public expense '^ '" * 
we favor the use of all public-school buildings as centers for voting." 

IT IS WORTHY. 

Hope of orderly progress for the race chiefly centers in the intelli- 
gent use of the ballot. The polling place is the primary capitol in 
a republic. In comparison with it the city hall, the statehouse, the 




Fig. 



-The preseut location of the ballot box in Sauk City, Wis. Election scene. 



Capitol at Washington are secondary capitols. The polling place 
should have the most nobly significant housing the community can 
give. The public-school building affords this housing. 



I 



IT IS APPROPRIATE. 

Elections, whether for the selection of men or the decision of 
measures, are primarily examinations of public intelligence. Schools 
are the logical and natural places for the periodic testings of the 
common mentality. The voting machine or ballot box should be 
kept in the schoolhouse as the symbol of efficiency in self-govern- 
ment — the examining instrument of the electorate's judgment and 
arood sense. 



6 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

IT IS CONVENIENT. 

The public schoolhonses are so distributed as to be easily reached 
by all the children of each district. The distance children go each 
day, adults may readily go to vote. A strange disparity has existed 
between urban and rural communities in the size of voting precincts 
as compared with school districts. As a rule, in the city there are 
more voting precincts than school districts. In the country generally 
the opposite condition exists. In general, the voting population of 
any community is about the same as the number of children of school 
age. The building that is large enough to accommodate the children 
is likely to be adequate for the use of the voters. 

IT IS PERMANENT. 

The storing of the voting apparatus in a cellar, loft, or shed, ex- 
cepting at election times, suggests an intermittent and occasional 
democracy, as though the people were in authority for only a day or 
two each year. The continuing presence of the voting instrument, 
permanently installed in the community capitol, proclaims the con- 
tinuing authority and responsibility of the citizens. 

IT IS EDUCATIVE. 

In Milwaukee," Wis., the question whether the public schoolhonses 
should be used as the polling places was referred to the school prin- 
cipals. Their vote was unanimously in favor of it. They recognized 
that this use of the school buildings would be a positive and practical 
aid in the most important service of the public schools at the civic 
training places of youth. This fundamental benefit, which is vividly 
set forth in the statement of Principal Buckley, was declared as of 
importance second only to the economy of the plan, in the resolution 
adopted by the National Conference on Teacher Training: "As a 
ready and practical means of saving public expense, and at the same 
time vitalizing the service of the public schools in civic education, 
we favor the use of all public school buildings for voting." 

IT IS SIMPLIFYING. 

Not infrequently citizens fail to vote at primaries and even at 
elections because they do not laiow the location of the polling place. 
Everybody knows the location of the public schoolhouse in his dis- 
trict. Moreover, making the voting precinct and the public school 
district identical does away with the confusion that arises from hav- 
ing two units of neighboihood; a confusion in part responsible for 
the failure to visualize and appreciate the neighborhood,, the group 
unit in society next in importance to the family. 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 7 

IT IS irNTFYING. 

Not all the citizens in every public school district send their chil- 
dren to the public school. There are parochial or private schools. 
But there is no parochial or private ballot box, and when this all- 
uniting instrument is permanently established in the schoolhouse, 
it makes plain the fact that with the adult civic uses of this public 
building the distinctions that cause the separate instruction of chil- 
dren have nothing whatever to do. 

The general establishment of the public schoolhouse as the polling 
place not only makes of this neighborhood building a substantial and 
ever-present reminder of the common responsibility and opportunity, 




Fig. 4. — Election day scene iii a i)ublic sclioolhouse, Grand Rapids, Mich. The school- 
houses of Grand Rapids have been used for many years as voting centers. 

the uniting civic bond that unites in one membership all citizens with- 
out respect to difference of religious or other opinion, but it also 
visualizes and emphasizes the identity of the civic bond within vari- 
ous sorts of communities, whether rich or poor, urban or rural. To 
make the common schoolhouse the polling place everywhere is to 
make a monumental declaration of the community of civic interest 
that transcends all our disunities. 



IT BELONGS AVITII THE CIVIC-FORUM USE OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLHOUSE. 

Where the citizens of any community in Wisconsin organize them- 
selves into a district or neighborhood assembly to use the schoolhouse 
for the free discussion of public questions, the law directs public 
88199°— 15 2 



8 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

.school boards to "provide, free of charge, light, heat, and janitor 
service, where necessary," and to " make such other provisions as 
may be necessary for the free and convenient use of such building'' 
for the periodical meetings of this community association. In pur- 
suance of this statute, neighborhood or district assemblies — delibera- 
tive organizations which regard every citizen 21 years of age or over 
residing in the district as a member — have been formed in more than 
200 communities in Wisconsin. This movement is spreading rapidly 
throughout other parts of the country. For the citizens to assemble 
in the schoolhouse for deliberation and then go to another place to vote 
is not more absurd than it would be for aldermen to meet for discus- 
sion in the city hall and then go to some other building to cast their 
vote. 

THE SCHOOL PRINCIPAL. AS COMMUNITY SECRETARY. 

Combined with the movement for the adult civic use of the public 
schoolhouses as polling places and as headquarters of deliberative 
assembly in many places is the movement to authorize the school prin- 
cipal or some one associated with him to serve not only over the 
children as supervisor of their instruction but also under the adult 
citizens as community clerk or secretary. In some communities 
this movement is taking the form of combining the office of village 
clerk with that of the school principal ; in others it is taking the form 
of adding responsibility for service as organizing and executive sec- 
retary of the citizens' assembly to the present official responsibility 
of the school principal. 

According to information received by the bureau of civic and social 
center development of the University of Wisconsin, the school prin- 
cipals at Algoma, Alma Center, Oostburg, De Forest, Iron Belt, 
Lublin, Medforcl, Muscoda, and Newburg were last year elected or 
appointed to serve as voting or village clerks. In Milwaukee, Su- 
perior, Kenosha, Neillsville, Sauk City, and Osseo the school princi- 
pal or some one associated with him and responsible to the school 
board has been made definitely responsible for civic secretarial 
service. 

If the school principal or some one associated with him is to be 
authorized to serve as clerk of citizenship-expression in voting or as 
secretary of citizenship-expression in deliberation, or as both, which 
seems to be the tendency, it is logical that the building in which he is 
engaged to serve the community on other days should be used Avhen 
he serves the citizens in their voting. 

PART or THE PROGRAM OF CITIZENSHIP ORGANIZATION. 

The installation in each public schoolhouse of the voting machine 
or ballot box, the official primary instrument for answering public 
questions, is the first step in practical physical adjustment toward 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE, 



9 



" finding the real meaning of democracy," as this program is formu- 
lated by President Wilson : " Citizens going to school to one another 
in the common schoolhouses to understand and answer public ques- 
tions, as hitherto only representatives of the citizens have gone to 
school to one another in the buildings provided for them." The use 
of the public schoolhouses for voting is thus a basic part of the com- 
munity-center program which the President has declared to mean 
" the recovery of the constructive and creative genius of the Amer- 
ican people." Indorsement of the use of the public schoolhouse for 
voting is thus given by ex-President Roosevelt, along with his decla- 
ration for its use as the community forum for civic assembly : " Every 
schoolhouse should be the polling place of its district. The school- 
house ought to be the senate chamber of the people, where men and 




Fig. 5. — Voting scene in a public school building, Milwaukee, Wis. 

women come together, not as partisans, but as neighboring citizens, 
to hear the claims of all candidates and choose between them and to 
discuss and decide public issues." The designation of each public 
schoolhouse as the voting center of its district is coupled with its use 
as community headquarters for organized discussion in the program 
which ex-President Taft characterizes as " not only good civic organi- 
zation but also good business." 

Indorsements of the proposition that the public schoolhouse should 
be used as the polling place, as a distinct proposition apart from 
other civic uses of the schoolhouse, might be multiplied ; but the 
most earnest indorsement of this plan comes from those statesmen 
and students of pui)lic welfare who see in it an integral part of the 
movement for the self-organization of the voting body into one de- 
liberative body, the program which '' goes to the heart of the whole 
American problem." 



10 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

IT IS BECOMING AN ACCOMPLISHED FACT. 

The plan of making the public schoolhoiises everywhere the polling 
places has nothing visionary or impractical in it. It is now in actual 
operation in many communities. In the following Wisconsin cities 
and towns public schoolhouses have already begun to be used for 
voting: Algoma, Berlin, Bloomer, Carter, Fond du Lac, Gilman, 
Hazel Green, Hudson, Juda, Kenosha, Knapp, La Crosse, Lublin, 
Madison, Maiden Rock, Manitowoc, Menasha, Milwaukee, Muscoda, 
Nekoosa, North Prairie, Orfordville, Portage, Port Washington, 
Prairie Farm, Sauk City, Stanley, Superior, Waukesha, Wausau. 

LOCATION OF THE VOTING INSTRUMENT IN THE SCHOOL BUILDING. 

The detail as to the part of any particular schoolhouse which may 
be used as the permanent voting headquarters of the neighborhood 
depends, of course, upon the plan and equipment of the building. 
If there is a first-floor community room, with easy access from the 
street, this is the suitable and appropriate place. Wliere such a 
ground-floor assembly hall or community room does not yet exist, 
any ground-floor room, or even the corridor, may be used. Whatever 
difficulty exists in improvising the voting room is temporary, for the 
tendency to regard no school building as complete which has not a 
ground-floor community assembly hall is so strong that not only are 
new schoolhouses being built with such rooms included in their plans, 
but in a number of places ground-floor community assembly halls 
have been added to existing schoolhouses. 

In selecting the part of the schoolhouse to be used for voting, 
strange as it may seem, occasionally the fundamental and supreme 
dignity of the voting machine or ballot box as the primary instru- 
ment of the cooperation that we call " government " is forgotten, and 
the part of the building selected for the exercise of the highest civic 
function is a basement or other out-of-the-way place. The idea in 
this is that the gathering of citizens to vote necessarily means the 
soiling of the voting place. Of course, this idea has arisen from the 
remarkable fact that while the secondary capitols — city halls, state- 
houses. Federal headquarters — have been made handsome and digni- 
fied, the primary capitol — the polling place — has often been located 
in a livery stable or a shed that is not supposed to be clean. Obvi- 
ously the location of the polling place in an undignified part of 
the schoolhouse tends naturally to perpetuate slovenliness and care- 
lessness in the accompaniments of voting. Whether, as Mr. Buckley 
suggests, the placing of the voting instrument in a dignified and cen- 
tral part of the schoolhouse will tend to lessen slovenliness and care- 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 11 

lessness in the motives and thought expressed in the voting itself, 
at any rate it is obvious that the worthy location of the polling place 
in the handsomest part of the schoolhouse Avill tend to suggest and 
evoke orderliness and restraint in the process of voting. 

When the fasces, as the symbol of delegated authority, are given 
the position of honor at the front of the House of Representatives 
at Washington, it certainly would seem inappropriate that the voting 
instrument, which is not only the symbol but the actual instrument of 
supreme authority in our Government, should be given less than the 
most honorable and conspicuous place in the neighborhood building. 
One of the leading community building architects in this country 
has declared that — 

In the characteristic building- of America, of which we have developed the 
nucleus in the public school, the ballot box or voting instrument will have the 
same relation to the whole edifice that the altar had to the structure of the 
mediaeval cathedral. It will be the center about which all the rest of the 
structure will be planned. 

Meantime, when the Babcock milk tester is given a place beside 
the teacher's desk at the front of the rural schoolhouse, because it 
stands as a symbol of efficient agriculture, and therefore should be 
kept before the pupils, it would seem strange not to give the instru- 
ment in whose use the character of our civilization is determined a 
place of at least equal honor. 

THE SAUK CITY CELEBRATION. 

In practically every community where the polling place has been 
transferred from some less worthy location to the public schoolhouse, 
it has been done casually and without fitting celebration of the genu- 
ine significance of thus establishing the schoolhouse as the community 
capitol. In Sauk City, Wis., however, where the sense of com- 
munity values has been developed and quickened by the use of the 
schoolhouse as the center of assembly for civic discussion and for 
social and recreational enjoyment, the essential importance of trans- 
ferring the polling place from the old town hall to the public school- 
house was appreciated, and this transference, along with the in- 
stallation of the school principal as civic secretary, was made the 
occasion of a memorable community center pageant and processional. 

In the course of the celebration at Sauk City addresses were given 
by Justice R. G. Siebecker, of the Wisconsin Supreme Court, who 
spoke on the advantage of establishing the schoolhouse as the actual 
civic center as seen from the viewpoint of efficiency in government; 
by State Supt. C. P. Cary, who spoke upon the advantages of this 
installation in promoting efficiency in education; and by Miss Zona 
Gale, interpreter of community life. 



12 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

Justice Siebecker said : 

The use of the schoolhouse as a community home for the education of its 
children, the place for rallying around the ballot box, and the gathering place 
of the all-inclusive citizens' club " to go to school to one another," will remove 
the deadly rivalries born of our failure to cooperate in the processes that make 
for our common good, and will supplant the feelings of rancor and hatred by 
sentiments of justice and good will toward others. The program of the civic 
and social center, which seeks to provide the place, the means, and the occa- 
sion for the community to satisfy the social and recreational instincts through 
creative and enobling expression, and thereby displace the greedy, degrading, 
private commercial interests that now control the means of supplying these 
desires, is of the utmost importance in reforming these activities of our national 
life. 

Above all, it should be the home of the ballot box. which is the medium by 
which the individual participates in the common public life. Placing the ballot 
box in this community house will give added dignity and power to the act of 
voting and tend to make the voter an intelligent and conscientious member in 
the cooperative enterprise of conducting public affairs. It will do much to purge 
elections of the intrigues and schemes of selfishness and the baneful influences 
of the partisan spirit which have flourished so abundantly in our political fields. 
It will imbue the voter with a desire to place this public function on a high 
plane and to be controlled by an intelligent common sense in the solution of 
problems affecting the general welfare. 

State Supt. Cary said : 

With the authorizing of your school principal as civic secretary, and the 
installation of the ballot box in this building, you have definitely made arrange- 
ments for its use by all the citizens of this community. This building is not 
to be the meeting place merely of that part of the voting body which agrees 
to any particular opinion. You do not plan to organize a partisan association. 

The organization that will assemble in this schoolhouse will not be made up 
of a section only of the people of this district. The bond that will unite you 
as you assemble here is the all-inclusive union of common responsibility, com- 
mon opportunity, common desire to get at the truth, the free deliberative 
union of citizens with different beliefs and different points of view. 

You ai'e putting into practice President Wilson's formula of democracy, 
" Citizens going to school to one another in the common schoolhouse to under- 
stand and answer public questions, as hitherto only representatives of the people 
have gone to school to one another in the buildings provided for them." You 
are performing an action as a community which, when it becomes general 
throughout the country, will give to all processes of civic expression a temper 
and tone of calmness and mutual understanding and will make real democracy 
IDOSsible. 

Miss Gale began her address upon the large significance of the 
event with these words : " Sauk City has to-day shown the whole 
State what to do." 

PAGEANT TELLS COMMUNITY NEED. 

Notable as were the addresses of interpretation, the pageant, wit- 
nessed and participated in by some five thousand guests, as well as 
the town's whole population, was the unforgettable feature of the 
celebration. 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 13 

In the early part of the pageant the vital need of the community 
for a secretary and the appropriateness of the school principal's 
appointment to this office were vividly set forth, and the mayor asked 
the principal, " whom we have made the servant of the town in the 
training of the youth for future citizenship," if he would " accept 
service under the electorate as secretary of this community." The 
response of the principal closes with this statement : 

But, Mr. Mayor and townsmen, here is a difficulty. My service is not owed 
to any one or few. My duty is to serve ttie membersliip of the town, the civic 
membership, as a whole. How is this membership realized? Where is it ex- 
pressed? The uniting instrument of this civic membership is the ballot box. 
There focuses the responsibility by which you are united into one body. How 
shall you use me as your secretary; how shall you use the public-school house 
as the headquarters of citizenship when the voting instrument is not there? 

" IN THE PUBLIC-SCHOOL HOUSE THE BALLOT BOX BELONGS." 

To this problem the mayor gave the following answer : 

Why should we not take the voting instrument to the common building of 
the community's best cooperation? Here, in this old town hall, the ballot box 
has been the associate of the jail, the suppression tool of human force, and 
of the fire engine, the suppression instrument of nature's force. Both are 
merely negative. They stand for the old prohibitive "Thou shalt not." that 
Government used to mean. But now we realize that government is a positive, 
a living, a constructive process of cooperation. For the housing of the 
supreme instrument of government, the fitting place is not where criminals 
are jailed and nature's force is merely feared and fought, but where the human 
spirit is released and nature's fi-iendly powers are evoked. In the public-school 
■ house the ballot box belongs. By it is tested every year the intelligence of the 
citizenship. For the sake of the example to the future citizens, and for its 
own dignity as the symbol of our unity in one civic fellowship, we will carry 
the ark of our great covenant to the public-school house, the civic and social 
center of our community. 



PART II.— THE PUBLIC-SCHOOL PRINCIPAL AS THE VOTING CLERK. 

"As a public-school principal, and officially nothing more, I found 
myself hampered in doing the work for which I was engaged," 
writes B. E. Billington, of Arena, Wis., a rural community of notable 
enterprise and leadership. 

"Along with and above ' the three Rs ' — that is, formal teaching — 
I realized that it was my paramount duty to lead the youth into that 
intelligent and active interest in public affairs which constitutes good 
citizenship. But, as school principal, I was given no first-hand op- 
portunity to become acquainted with the community's actual prob- 
lems or the method of their handling. Moreover, while I was looked 
upon with a kind of respect, there was an element of keep-your-dis- 
tance suspicion in it, and in practical matters of immediate impor- 
tance I was more or less frankly regarded as an outsider. It was 
as though I were engaged to serve as special guide into a region with 
which I was given no chance to become familiar, and were charged 
with the duty of inspiring enthusiasm for an association in which I 
myself Avas treated as a stranger." 

METHODS or SECURING VITAL CONTACT. 

" How was I to get into that living touch with the administration 
of public affairs which would give me the confidence of the com- 
munity, of my pupils, and of myself as a man not only of civic 
ideals, but as one practically informed by steadying and correcting 
contact with the actual processes of citizenship? 

" I hesitated, I believe rightly, to thrust myself into active par- 
ticipation in civic affairs in the only way that seemed open to me as 
a private citizen, by identifying myself as a ' worker ' with one or 
another of the parties or factions which divided the community on 
lines of opinion. To do that would have brought me into contact 
with a part of the civic membership, but it would have estranged 
me from the others, and my interest was not partisan. 

SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM. 

"A vacancy happened to occur in the office of town clerk imme- 
diately after election, and the town board asked me to accept the 
position. 

" I saw upon investigation, as later I found by experience, that 
there was no conflict in the matter of time required by the duties 
of the clerk's office wdth that which my work as principal demanded, 

15 



16 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

and no possible incompatibility, inconsistency, or incongruity be- 
tween the two offices. The modest salary attached to the clerk's 
office, though not the prime consideration, would mean a welcome 
increase of my income. And, while I did not fully appreciate the 
very positive value of the combination of these two offices, I did see 
with quick satisfaction that here was the way to secure the vital 
contact with adult citizenship expression, of which I had felt the 
need. 

" I accepted the office of town clerk along with my office as school 
principal, 

DEVELOPMENT OF ACQUAINTANCE, RESPECT, AND UNDERSTANDING BY 

CONTACT. 

" My first experience was in administering oaths of office, a cere- 
mony suggestive of the sacredness of public trust in democracy. 
Then began the meetings of the town board, wherein I met and soon 
came to know the representative men of the community. 

" Each part of my work as clerk furnished its broadening and 
stimulating acquaintance. Most important of all, primary election 
and general election brought me face to face with the body of 
citizens, many of whom I otherwise might not have met, and who, 
to put it the other way, might otherwise never have met the man 
responsible for the teaching of their children. 

" I grew to have a profound respect for the practical views that 
the men around me expressed. I found that many of them, though 
somewhat deficient in book learning, were rich in experience and 
common sense. 

" The old keep-your-distance barrier was gone. 

VALUABLE EFFECT ON SCHOOL WORK. 

" The work with the adult citizens began at once to react on my 
work with the youth. Being interested myself, I began to try to 
develop intelligent interest on the part of my pupils in the actual 
problems of community life. Many morning exercises were spent 
in discussing the claims of candidates and the merits of issues in 
order that voting might be intelligent, and then, at each primary, 
general, and spring election, there was a duplicate practice election 
conducted by the students. This sort of work proved so vitalizing 
and interesting in its various phases that it came to give a content 
of reality to much of the work within the school. 

INCREASE OF EFFICIENCY IN COMBINATION OF OFFICES. 

" From what I know of the office of clerk, with its requirements of 
penmanship, system, and accuracy in the handling of figures, 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 17 

retentive memory, and nonpartisan desire to be of service to the 
whole community, I consider that the average school principal is 
better qualified for this office than the usual candidate who has not 
the principal's training and vieAvpoint. But the increase of efficiency 
in the clerk's office is not the chief advantage of the combination of 
these two forms of community service. This lies in the steadying 
and invigorating influence that work as clerk has upon one's service 
as school principal. This is sufficient, in my estimation, to justify 
relieving him of some of the routine and detail school work which 
may be done by subordinates, where this may be necessary, in order 
to permit the principal's serving as clerk. 

" I consider that my training and practice as principal made me 
a better town clerk. I am very positive that my work and experience 
as clerk made me a better principal." 

OrnCE OF TOWN, VILLAGE, OR CITY CLERK LIKE THAT OF VOTING CLERK. 

The reason for citing the experience of a principal appointed to 
serve his community as town clerk, instead of giving the experience 
of a principal appointed for service merely in. connection with an 
election, by way of introduction to a discussion of the advantages 
of combining the office of voting clerk with that of public-school 
principal, is not that there are not school principals who have been 
appointed to serve at polling places. According to the latest report 
received by the community center bureau of the University of 
Wisconsin, the principals at Algoma, De Forest, Iron Belt, Lublin, 
Medford, Muscoda, Newburg, and Oostburg, Wis., have rendered 
this service during the past year. The reason for giving, instead, 
the experience of a man who has combined the office of town clerk 
with that of principal is that this office, like that of village or city 
clerk, is, in its unified and nonpartisan character, analogous to the 
office of voting clerk as this office is likely to be constituted when 
its potential character is appreciated. 

VOTING CLERKSHIP THE ESTABLISHED NUCLEUS OF COMMUNITY SECRE- 
TARYSHIP. 

The body of qualified voters in any precinct or district is the 
established primary community organization. The most signifi- 
cant thing about this unit neighborhood association is the fact 
that, as a rule, its members are not conscious of it as a real and 
vitally unified society. This is due, of coui^se, to the fact that 
usually the only activity in which its members participate, as mem- 
bers, is in coming once or twice a year to the polls to vote. How- 
ever, each neighborhood group of citizens, united by the bonds of 
responsibility and opportunity that focus at the ballot box, is not only 



18 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

a real organization, since the voting register at each polling place 
is an actual membership list, but it is the fimdamentally and su- 
premely essential organization of our society, and it is only through 
membersliip in it that the individual may officially and directly 
participate in determining the affairs of the larger associations of 
city, county. State, and Nation, and through it alone that he may 
officially share in international control when adequate international 
organization has been achieved. 

For the expression of membership by voting, community secre- 
tarial service has been required only intermittently and only by the 
services of tellers. But this secretarial service — voting clerkship — 
through which each citizen's partnership in the government is di- 
rectly expressed, is the nucleus of community secretaryship, so far as 
this office has been generally established. 

DISTRUST AND MUTUAL SUSPICION IN OFFICE AS HERETOFORE CONSTITUTED. 

In the character of the office of voting clerk and the way that it has 
heretofore been filled, there seems to be perpetuated the immature, 
savage, and degrading conception, which we have outgrown in prac- 
tically all our thinking and feeling, of the basic relationship of 
human beings as negative and antagonistic — a matter of rivalry and 
suspicion rather than of mutual good faith and desire to cooperate. 
The method of filling this office has been the appointment not of one 
reasonably trustworthy and responsible community official, but of 
several — in Wisconsin seven — persons, avowedly and supposedly rep- 
resentative, not of the community as a whole, but of the various 
extraconstitutional partisan factions into which the community hap- 
pens to be divided. It is as though the theory were that the actual 
attitude of neighboring citizens is one of savage and shortsighted 
desire on the part of some of the members of the community to over- 
come, dominate, and prey upon the rest, or (which amounts to the 
same thing) of dumb and passive willingness to be led as sheeplike 
" rank and file " to the polls, to be counted in favor of this or that 
person or few whose ambition is to " win," to " rule," to " get the 
spoils." 

The " check-and-balance " idea of mutual offsetting and division 
is embodied in the present constitution of the office of voting clerk — 
quite obviously in the wrong place. . Whatever we may say of the 
value of this idea in its application to the secondary machinery of 
government — the municipal, State, and National subcommittees of 
the citizenship — there can be no possible justification for its applica- 
tion to the primary machinery of government — the committee-of-the- 
whole electorate, in whose interest its application to these subcom- 
mittees is supposedly perpetuated. 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 19 

If the present constitution of the office of voting clerk were a con- 
sciously chosen arrangement (which it is not; it is rather a derange- 
ment permitted to exist because the feasibility of a rational adjust- 
ment has not been appreciated), it would indicate, as between indi- 
vidual neighbors, an attitude of fear and hate essentially the same 
as that Avhicli in international relations is expressed by armaments 
and war. To the attitude of individual citizens toward each other, 
which seems to be reflected in the present constitution of the office of 
voting clerk, the description of the present international attitude 
given by Nietzsche would apply — " reserving morality for ourselves 
and immorality for our neighbor; we proclaim him a hypocrite and 
cunning criminal." And here, as internationally, the effect is demor- 
alizing. Nietzsche's notable declaration fits in this primary sphere 
no less than in the sphere of world adjustment: "Better to perish 
than to hate and fear, and twice as far better to perish than to make 
oneself hated and feared ! " 

The attempt to secure efficiency and fairness in elections through 
the embodiment of mutual suspicion in the office of voting clerk is 
to be rejected, not merely on ethical grounds, but also as a result of 
practical experience. It fails to secure honesty and fair dealing in 
precisely the same way that mutual armament fails to secure peace. 

It is because this most potential office in our society has embodied, 
in the way that it has been constituted, the essentially corrosive and 
debasing idea of mutual suspicion, that its true character and su- 
preme importance as the nucleus of community secretaryship — which 
is the prime ministry in a democracy — has not been recognized. As 
heretofore filled, this office has embodied, and to some extent evoked, 
in our " political " relations, an utterly brutal attitude of human 
beings toward each other. In this character it belonged with the idea 
of civic expression in voting as a contest, with which intelligence 
had nothing to do. It belonged with the use of the livery stable as 
the polling place. 

CL.ERKSHIP FOR CITIZENS' VOTING. 

For the voting of every representative association, every subcom- 
mittee of the citizenship, whether it be the village, town, or city 
council or commission, the State assembly, or the National Senate, 
teller service is rendered, not by five or seven or nine mutually sus- 
picious and technically irresponsible faction representatives, but by 
one responsible clerk. It is only for the voting of the committee-of- 
the-whole citizenship that there is this strange disintegration of the 
clerical office into a derangement essentially embod3ang mutual 
antagonism and distrust. 



20 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

Unless it is assumed that the primary association of citizens is 
morally and mentally lower than the secondary associations of rep- 
resentatives which are produced by it — that the creator is inferior to 
the creature — it would seem that the normal character of the office of 
voting clerk, for citizens as for representatives, is that in which the 
service is rendered b}^ one responsible official, with others paid to be 
present only if their assistance is required by the volume of actual 
work to be done. 

The infrequency of the citizens' voting is such that voting clerk- 
ship is not by itself a full-time occupation. Each member of the 
group which in every precinct or district has hitherto rendered this 
service has had some private business, trade, profession, or employ- 
ment as his chief vocation. The possibility that this office may be 
redeemed from its present demoralization and made a position of 
fixed responsibility and reasonable trust depends upon finding in 
each neighborhood an established public office to which the re- 
sponsibility for service as voting clerk may properly be added. The 
practical and ready answer to this problem is that which belongs 
wdth the use of the public schoolhouse as the polling place. 

RELATION BETWEEN REASONS FOR PRINCIPAL'S SERVING AS VOTING CLERK 
AND REASONS FOR USING SCHOOLHOUSE AS POLLING PLACE. 

If the public schoolhouse is used as the polling place, it is obvious 
that division of responsibility is likely to produce lack of coordina- 
tion, if not friction, in matters of physical adjustment, janitor serv- 
ice supervision, etc., unless arrangements for the several uses of the 
one building are administered in one office. Indeed, the fact that 
accommodation has been made and friction avoided where school 
buildings have begim to be used for voting without this concentra- 
tion of responsibility is indication of a fine spirit on the part of the 
principal, a willingness to suffer inconvenience and slight for the 
sake of community advantage. But to expect that school principals 
will continue indefinitely and universally to make this accommoda- 
tion is to demand a self-effacement and good nature that would not 
be expected of any other officials. 

A case in point occurs in one Wisconsin town. Two years ago, 
when it was decided to use the public schoolhouses for voting, the 
large basement room near the entrance of each building was desig- 
nated- for the purpose, since this room was at that time unoccupied. 
After the first election manual training was added to the school 
curriculum, and the equipment therefor was installed in this room 
that had been used for voting. When the time came to arrange for 
the next election it was seen that to use this room for voting would 
necessitate moving the heavy manual-training equipment^ and at 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 21 

the suggestion of the principals the superintendent proposed that 
the large room on the first floor, which served as kindergarten room 
during ordinary school days, be made the polling place. It was 
pointed out that this space was free from heavy equipment, was 
equally accessible from the street, or more so, and was a more 
handsome and worthy part of the building, and that if this were 
made the permanent voting place there would be a greater educa- 
tional benefit to the school through the conduct of the election there. 
The recommendation of the superintendent was simply ignored by 
the election officials, and the demand was made that the basement 
room be cleared for registration, primary, and election. The school 
officials suffered both the affront and the inconvenience without 
one suggesting or agi-eeing to the suggestion that the voting 
should be done elsewhere than in the schoolhouse, the superintendent 
declaring that the economy, propriety, and educational benefit of 
having the schoolhouse used as the polling place were so gi-eat that 
even arbitrarily determined and unnecessary inconvenience ought 
to be and would be borne rather than have the voting process carried 
on elsewhere. 

The argument for adding the office of voting clerk to that of public 
school principal does not rest on these merely negative considera- 
tions. There are positive and vital reasons for this combination. 
Indeed, in practically all particulars the advantages of making the 
public schoolhouse the voting headquarters are paralleled by as great 
or greater advantages in the appointment of the principal as the 
Aoting clerk. 

ECONOMY IN APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL AS VOTING CLERK. 

Precisely as the most obvious reason for using the public school- 
houses instead of rented quarters or especially constructed booths as 
the polling places is the economy of this use, so the most patent ad- 
vantage of the appointment of the principal as voting clerk is the 
radical reduction in the cost of elections which this measure accom- 
plishes. 

Hitherto in Wisconsin, and generally throughout the country, the 
number of persons employed to conduct elections has just about 
equaled the number of persons employed in the common schools as 
principals and teachers. The pay of each of the seven persons — 
three inspectors, two ballot clerks, and two voting clerks — employed 
at every polling place (where a voting machine is used the two 
ballot clerks are dispensed with, but a custodian of the machine is 
added) ranges from $2 to $12 a day, and three officials are employed 
on registration days and all on primary and election days. The 



22 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

total pay roll of these officials in the State of Wisconsin, for example, 
is about $140,000. 

As voting-clerk service comes to be a regular and ex officio duty of 
the public-school principal, compensation for this work will come to 
be included as a part of the regular salary of the principal's office, 
and this whole expense as a separate account will be eliminated. 
Meanwhile, the appointment of one official in each precinct, with one 
or two assistants where these may be necessary, and with the pay- 
ment on the present per diem basis, would mean a saving of more 
than half the present cost of elections, a net saving of more than 
$100,000 in each two-election year in States of the size of Wisconsin. 

FITNESS OF PRINCIPAL FOR THIS OFFICE. 

As the public-school building is the most nobly significant edifice 
in the primary community and so is worthy to be used as the head- 
quarters or capitol for the primary cooperation of government, so 
the person in charge of the training of youth for citizenship is 
presumably and, as a rule, actually the person best qualified to serve 
as voting clerk. 

Of course there are weak and corruptible principals, as there are 
weak and dishonest persons in every sort of office, and the voting 
machine may well be used not only as a labor-saving device but for 
its value in reducing temptation, precisely as the cash register in a 
store or the fare box in a street car. Moreover, there is no reason 
wh}^ checkers, watchers, or challengers may not be authorized to serve 
as at present. The fact that human beings are not infallible, how- 
ever, does not prevent the appointment of one man instead of seven 
to serve as clerk in the voting of representative assemblies; and cer- 
tainly it may be said with fairness that the person who is not worthy 
to occupy this office under the adult citizens is not fit to be intrusted 
with the training of their children. 

APPROPRIATENESS OF APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL AS VOTING CLERK. 

The only genuine community office now established in the average 
neighborhood is that of the public-school principal; and where 
there are any other public servants, policemen, or firemen their pri- 
mary employment is not of such a character as to be compatible with 
the administration of the office of voting clerk. The breaking out 
of a fire or the committal of a crime of violence in the neighborhood 
Avould necessitate the withdrawal of the official from the polling 
place, if service as voting clerk were added to the office of fireman 
or policeman. 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE, 23 

On the other hand, service as voting clerk is not only compatible 
with the present and established work of the public-school principal 
but is an appropriate addition to it. The fundamental appropriate- 
ness of the use of the education building as the voting headquarters is 
in the fact that the essence of citizenship in a democracy is a fellow 
studentship, in which the elections are examinations of the citizens' 
capacity for answering questions regarding the public welfare. For 
clerical service under the citizens in this essentially educational ex- 
pression, the logical, natural, appropriate officer is the community 
administrator of education. 

The fact that the principal of the public school is frequently a 
woman does not invalidate this statement. The question whether 
women are to be regarded as qualified voters is not the main question 
here. Voting clerkship is not an expression of citizenship, but a 
service to the citizenship. Moreover, women now serve as voting 
officials in many of the States. If a woman is not qualified because 
she is a woman for this service under the adult citizens, then cer- 
tainly she is not qualified to train the youth for citizenship. 

CONVENIENCE IN THE APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL. 

The public schoolhouses are conveniently distributed for use as 
polling places; so, for the principal, and for the voters in the use 
of his services, this work can be done by no one more conveniently 
than by the school principal. This is particularly and obviously 
true if the schoolhouse be used as the voting center. But this is 
true even where the schoolhouse is not the voting place. The heart 
of the aim of the school in its service to the children and youth is 
their civic training. On election day, in many communities, the 
children are taken from the schoolhouse to the polling place that 
they may see the voting operation. A^Tiere this supreme civic ex- 
pression is, whether it be in the schoolhouse or elsewhere, there those 
who are in civic apprenticeship should find their school. 

However, the chief convenience of the school principal's service 
as voting clerk is not in his work on election dsLj, but in the fact 
that, with his appointment, there is the possibility of indefinitely 
increasing the number of registration days to suit the convenience of 
voters, and this with practically no increase of expense. 

PERMANENCY OF OFFICE IN APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL. 

As the use of the schoolhouse for voting makes possible the perma- 
nent installation of the voting apparatus in the community capi- 
tol instead of having this symbol and instrument of civic expression 



24 THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 

stored in an out-of-the-way place through most of the year, so the 
appointment of the school principal as voting clerk gives a perma- 
nency to this office that is in harmony with the continuance of the 
citizens' responsibility. It makes possible, as suggested above, in- 
creasing the opportunities for registration without increase of ex- 
pense, for the principal is on duty almost every day. It makes more 
readily possible the holding of special elections and referenda, and 
it does away with the necessity of instructing election officers each 
time that the poll is to be taken. 

EDUCATIONAL VALUE OF APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL. 

The statement of Supt. Greeson, of Grand Rapids, Mich., that, 
were it a matter of increased expenses instead of substantial economy 
to have the schoolhouses used for voting, it would still be the wise 
and right thing to do on account of its educational value to the 
school, might also be made regarding the appointment of the school 
principal as the voting clerk. As was said at the beginning of this 
section, the office of town, village, or city clerk, in its unified charac- 
ter, is analogous to the office of voting clerk, as this will be when 
given the character of single appointment which normally belongs 
to clerkship. The experience of a principal in serving also as town 
clerk is given there. In this connection it may be well to give the 
statements from experience of a principal who received appointment 
as village clerk and of another principal who for a number of years 
has served as city clerk. 

After speaking of the feasibility of the principal serving as clerk 
and the value of his school training in rendering efficient service, 
Mr. Ellis N. Calef , who, as principal of the high school at Alma Cen- 
ter, Wis., was last year appointed to serve as village clerk, writes : 

But the more important advantage, as I found it, from tlie combination of 
these two offices is the benefit that the community may derive from the prac- 
tical aid to better worli as a principal that comes from service as clerk. In the 
first place, it is a very real satisfaction to the principal to have the expression 
of the community's confidence which is given in this appointment. One's 
natural response to such an expression of confidence is an increased feeling of 
devotion to the community. The principal is thus vitalized in his power to 
inspire loyalty and interest in their own town on the part of the youth for 
whose training he is responsible. Moreover, his service as clerk affords him 
opportunity for acquaintance with the adults, whom he should know if he is 
understandingly to administer their children's instruction ; and this work gives 
him an Insight into the actual civic life of the community which no amount of 
book study could supply. Judging from my experience, it is my belief that the 
combination of the office of clerk under the adult citizens with that of principal 
over the children in their training is beneficial both to the school and to the 
community as a whole. 



THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS THE POLLING PLACE. 25 

Mr. Bernard M. Mulvaney Avrites, from six years' experience as at 
once school principal and city clerk at Oconto, Wis. : 

The wide experience gaiued through this clerical work was of assistance in 
handling my school work. I am and was associated with men of standing in 
business and the professions, and can say that the knowledge and experience 
gained here were as invaluable to me as if I had spent a year or two at the 
university. 

Mr. Mulvaney speaks of the technical work of his office as clerk, 
closing Avith this statement : 

I have been taught that there are other walks in life than those connected 
with teaching, and I have had contact with people that I could not have gotten 
as simply a teacher. I have been able to approach people better by my knowl- 
edge of both occupations. I have been a better clerk for being a principal, and 
I have been a better i)riucipal for being clerk. 

P. S. — As I am writing, the editor of the local paper enters. I have just told 
him what I have written. lie says that if more principals could work in like 
manner it would broaden and make more effective their school work. 

SIMPLIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATION OF ELECTIONS BY APPOINTMENT OF 
PRINCIPAL AS VOTING CLERK. 

As long as service as voting clerk is not made an ex officio duty of 
one established community officer the election provisions regarding 
this service will continue to be, as they are to-day, complex, difficult 
to understand, and susceptible of abuse. Precisely as there are citi- 
zens who fail to vote because they do not know the location of the 
polling place — where the schoolhouss has not yet come to be desig- 
nated for this use — so it may safely be said that the average citizen 
does not know the regulations regarding voting-clerk service or the 
l^ersonnel of the election officials in his own precinct. The appoint- 
ment in each district of the public official who is now responsible over 
the children to serve as voting clerk under the adult citizens would 
mean an immediate and most desirable simplification, obviously con- 
ckicive to civic efficiency. Moreover, this appointment, generalized, 
implies the possibility of doing away with separate boards of elec- 
tion, the work of wdiich then becomes a duty of the school officials — 
local, county, and State. These officials are usually as impartial and 
free from dishonesty or bias as any public officials are, and as com- 
petent. Thus the appointment of the principal to serve as voting 
clerk points a practical way to such "consolidation and elimination 
of unnecessary boards and commissions" as is being recognized as 
desirable in Wisconsin and throughout the country. It means the 
simplification of the whole machinery and administration of elections. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

[Note.— With the exceptions indicated, the documents named Ijelow will be sent free of charge upon 
application to the Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Those marked with an asterisk (*) 
are no longer available for free distribution, but may be had of the Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C, upon payment of the price stated. Remittances should be made 
in coin, currency, or money order. Stamps are not accepted. Documents marked with a dagger (t)are 
out of print. 

1906. 

tNo. 1. Education bill of 1906 for England and Wales as it passed the House of Commons. A. T. Smith. 
tNo. 2. German views of American education, with particular reference to industrial development. 

William N. Hailmann. 
♦No. 3. State school systems: Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 1904, 

to Oct. 1, 1906. Edward C. Elliott. 15 cts. 

1907. 

tNo. 1. The continuation school in the United States. Arthur J. Jones. 

tNo. 2. Agricultural education, including nature study and school gardens. James li. Jewell. 

+No. 3. The auxiliary schools of Germany. Six lectures by B. Maennel. 

,-,- }. The elimination of pupils from school. Edward L. Thomdike. 

1908. 

tNo. 1. On the training of persons to teach agriculture in the pulilic schools. Lilierty H. Bailey. 

tNo. 2. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1907. 

tNo. 3. Bibliography of education for 1907. James Ingersoll Wyer, jr., and Martha L. Phelps. 

tNo. 4. Music education in the United States; schools and departments of music. Arthur L. Manchester. 

*No. 5. Education in Formosa. Julean H. Arnold. 10 cts. 

*No. 6. The apprenticeship system in its relation to industrial education. Carroll D. Wright. 15 cts. 

tNo. 7. State school systems: II. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, 'Oct. 1, 

1906, to Oct. 1, 1908. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 8. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1907-8. 

1909. 

*No. 1. Facilities for study and research in the offices of the United States Government in Washington. 

Arthur T. Hadley. 10 cts. 
♦No. 2. Admission of Cliinese students to American colleges. John Fryer. 25 cts. 
♦No. 3. Daily meals of school children. Caroline L. Hunt. 10 cts. 

tNo. 4. The teaching staff of secondary schools in the United States; amount of education, length of expe- 
rience, salaries. Edward L. Thomdike. 
No. 5. Statistics of public, society, and school libraries in 1908. 
♦No. 6. Instruction in the fine and manual arts in the United States. A statistical monograph. Henry 

T. Bailey. 15 cts. 
No. 7. Index to the Reports of the Commissioner of Education, 1867-1937. 
*No. 8. A teacher's professional library. Classified list of 100 titles. 5 cts. 
♦No. 9. Bibliography of education for 1908-9. 10 cts. 
No. 10. Education for efficiency in railroad service. J. Shirley Eaton. 

♦No. 11. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 190S-9. 5 cts. 

1910. 

♦No. 1. The movement for reform in the teaching of religion in the public schools of Saxony. Arley B. 

Show. 5 cts. 
No. 2. State school systems: III. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to public education, Oct. 1, 

1908, to Oct. 1, 1909. Edward C. Elliott. 
tNo. 3. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1867-1910. 
tNo. 4. The biological stations of Europe. Charles A. Kofoid. 
♦No. 5. American schoolhouses. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 75 cts. 
tNo. 6. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 

the State, 1909-10. 

I 



n BULLETIN OF THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION. 

1911. 

*No. 1. Bibliography of science teaching. 5 cts. 

*No. 2. Opportunities for graduate study in agriculture in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 5 cts. 

*No. 3. Agencies for the improvement of teachers in service. William C. Ruediger. 15 cts. 

*No. 4. Report of the commission appointed to study the system of education in the public schools of 

Baltimore. 10 cts. 
*No. 5. Age and grade census of schools and colleges. George D. Strayer. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Graduate work in mathematics in universities and in other institutions of like grade in the United 

States. 5 cts. 
fNo. 7. Undergraduate work in mathematics in colleges and universities. 
tNo. 8. Examinations in mathematics, other than those set by the teacher for his own classes. 
No. 9. Mathematics in the technological schools of collegiate grade in the United States. 
tNo. 10. Bibliography of education for 1909-10. 
tNo. 11. Bibliography of child study for the years 1908-9. 
tNo. 12. Training of teachers of elementary and secondary mathematics. 
*No. 13. Mathematics in the elementary schools of the United States. 15 cts. 
*No. 14. Provision for exceptional children tu the public schools. J. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer, 

and Leonard P. Ayres. 10 cts. 
*No. 15. Educational system of China as recently reconstructed. Harry E. King. 10 cts. 
tNo. 16. Mathematics in the public and private secondary schools of the United States. 
tNo. 17. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, October, 1911. 
tNo. 18. Teachers' certificates issued under general State laws and regulations. H. Updegraff. 
No. 19. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1910-11. 

1912. 

♦No. 1. A course ofstudy for the preparation of rural-school teachers. F. Mutchler and W.J. Craig. Sets. 
tNo. 2. Mathematics at West Point and Annapolis. 
*No. 3. Report of committee on imiform records and reports. 5 cts. 
*No. 4. Mathematics in technical secondary schools in the United States. 5 cts. 
*No. 5. A study of expenses of city school systems. Harlan Updegraff. 10 cts. 
*No. 6. Agricultural education in secondary schools. 10 cts. 
*No. 7. Educational status of nursing. M. Adelaide Nutting. 10 cts. 

*No. 8. Peace day. Fannie Fern Andrews. Sets. [Later publication, 1913, No. 12. lOcts.J 
*No. 9. Country schools for city Ijoys. William S. Myers. 10 cts. 
tNo. 10. Bililiography of education in agriculture and home economics. 
tNo. 11. Current educational topics. No. L 

tNo. 12.- Dutch schools of New Netherland and colonial New York. William H. KUpatrick. 
*No. 13. Influences tending to improve the work of the teacher of mathematics. 5 cts. 
♦No. 14. Report oi" the American commissioners of the international commission on the teaching of mathe- 
matics. 10 cts. 
tNo. 15. Current educational topics, No. XL 
tNo. 16. The reorganized scliool playground. Henry S. Curtis. 
♦No. 17. The Montessori system of education. Anna T. Smith. 5 cts. 
♦No. 18. Teaching language through agriculture and domestic science. M. A. Leiper. 5 cts. 
♦No. 19. Professional distrilnilion of college and university graduates. Bailey B. Burritt. 10 cts. 
tNo. 20. Readjustment of a rural high school to the needs of the community. H. A. Brown. 
tNo. 21. Urban and rural common-school statistics. Harlan Updegraff and William R. Hood. 

No. 22. Public and private high scliools. 

*No. 23.- Special collections in libraries in the United States. W. D. Johnston and I. G. Mudge. 10 cts. 
tNo. 24. Current educational topics. No. IIL 

tNo. 25. List of publications of the United States Bureau of Education, 1912. 
tNo. 26. Bibliography of child study for the years 1910-11. 

No. 27. History of public-school education in Arkansas. Stephen B. Weeks. 
♦No. 28. Cultivating school grounds in Wake County, N. C. Zebulon Judd. 5 cts. 

No. 29. Bibliography of the teaching of mathematics, 1900-1912. D. E. Smith and C. Goldziher. 

No. 30. La tin- American universities and special schools. Edgar E. Brandon. 
tNo. 31. Educational directory, 1912. 

tNo. 32. Bibliography of exceptional children and their education. Arthur MacDonald. 
tNo. 33. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912. 

1913. 

No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1913. 
♦No. 2. Training courses for rural teachers. A. C. Monahan and R. H. Wright. 5 cts. 
•♦No. 3. The teaching of modern languages in the United States. Charles H. Handschin. 15 cts. 
♦No. 4. Present standards of higher education in the United States. George E. MacLean. 20 cts. 
tNo. 5. Monthly record of current educational publications. February, 1913. 



BULLETIN OF THE BUKEAU OF EDUCATION. lU 

*No. 6. Agricultural instruction in high schools. C. H. Robison tind F. B. Jenks. 10 cts. 

*No. 7. College entrance requirements. Clarence D. Kingsley. 15 cts. 

*No. 8. The status of rural education in the United States. A. C. Monahan. 15 cts. 

fNo. 9. Consular reports on continuation schools in Prussia. 

tNo. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1913. 

tNo. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1913. 

*No. 12. The promotion of peace. Fannie Fern Andrews. 10 cts. 

*No. 13. Standards and tests for measuring the efTiciency of schools or systems of schools. 5 cts. 

fNo. 14. Agricultural instruction in secondary schools. 

tNo. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications, May, 1913. 

*No. 16. Bibliography of medical inspection and health supervision. 15 cts. 

fNo. 17. A trade school for girls. A preliminary investigation in a typical manufacturing city, Worcester, 

Mass. 
*No. IS. The fifteenth international congress on hygiene and demography. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 10 cts. 
*No. 19. German industrial education and its lessons for the United States. Holmes Beckwith. 15 cts. 
*No. 20. Illiteracy in the United States. 10 cts. 

jNo. 21. Monthly record of current educational pulilications, June, 1913. 
*No. 22. Bibliography of industrial, vocational, and trade education. 10 cts. 
*No. 23. The Georgia club at the State Normal School, Athens, Ga., for the study of rural sociology. E. C. 

Branson. 10 cts. 
*No. 24. A comparison of public education in Germany and in the United States. Ueorg Kerschensteiner. 

5 cts. 
*No. 25. Industrial education in Columbus, Ga. Roland B. Daniel. 5 cts. 
fNo. 26. Good roads arbor day. Susan B. Sipe. 
tNo. 27. Prison schools. A. C. Hill. 

*No. 28. Expressions on education by American statesmen and publicists. 5 cts. 
*No. 29. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Kendric C. Babcock. 10 cts. 
*No. 30. Education in the South. 10 cts. 
*No. 31. Special features in city school systems. 10 cts. 

No. 32. Educational survey of Montgomery County, Md. 

tNo. 33. Monthly record of current educational publications, September, 1913. 
*No. 34. Pension systems in Great Britain. Raymond W. Sies. 10 cts. 
*No. 35. A list of books suited to a high-school lilirary. 15 cts. 
*No. 36. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska, 1911-12. 10 cts. 

No. 37. Monthly record of current educational publications, OctoV)er, 1913. 
*No. 38. Economy of time in education. 10 cts. 

No. 39. Elementary industrial school of Cleveland, Ohio. W. N. Hailmann. 
*No. 40. The reorganized school playground. Henry S. Curtis. 10 cts. 
*No. 41. The reorganization of secondary education. 10 cts. 

No. 42. An experimental rural school at Winthrop College. H. S. Browne. 
*No. 43. Agriculture and rural-life day; material for its observance. Eugene C. Brooks. 10 cts. 
*No. 44. Organized health work in schools. E. B. Hoag. 10 cts. 

No. 45. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1913. 
*No. 46. Educational directory, 1913. 15 cts. 

*No. 47. Teaching material in Government publications. F. K. Noyes. 10 cts. 
*No. 48. School hygiene. W. Carson- Ryan, jr. 15 cts. 

No. 49. The Farragut School, a Tennessee country-life high school. A. C. Monahan and A. Phillips 
*No. 50. The Fitchburg plan of cooperative industrial education. M. R. McCann. 10 cts. 
*No. 51. Education of the immigrant. 10 cts. 
*No. 52. Sanitary schoolhouses. Legal requirements in Indiana and Ohio. 5 cts. 

No. 53. Monthly record of current educational puldications, December, 1913. 

No. 54. Consular reports on industrial education in Germany. 

No. 55. Legislation and judicial decisions relating to education, October 1, 1909, to Octolier 1, 1912. James 

C. Boykin and William R. Hood. 
1No. 56. Some suggestive features of the Swiss school system. William Knox Tate. 
tNo. 57. Elementary education in England, with special reference to London, Liverpool, and Manchester. 
I. L. Kandel. 

No. 58. Educational system of rural Denmark. Harold W. Foght. 

No. 59. Bibliography of education for 1910-11. 

No. 60. Statistics of State universities and other institutions of higher education partially supported by 
the State, 1912-13. 

1914. 

*No. 1. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1914. 5 cts. 

No. 2. Compulsory school attendance. 
*No. 3. Monthly record of current educational pulilications, February, 1914. Sets. 

No. 4. The school and the start in life. Meyer Bloomfleld. 



IV BULLETIN OF THE BUEEAU OF EDUCATION. 

No. 5. The folk high schools of Denmark. L. L. Friend. 

No. 6. Kindergartens in the United States. 

No. 7. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1914. 

No. 8. The Massachusetts home-project plan of vocational agricultural education. R. W. Stimson. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1914. 
*No. 10. Physical growth and school progress. B. T. Baldwin. 25 cts. 

No. 11. Monthly record of current educational publications. May, 1914. 5 cts. 
*No. 12. Kural schoolhouses and grounds. F. B. Dresslar. 50 cts. 

No. 13. Present status of drawing and art in the elementary and secondary schools of the United States. 
Royal B. Famum. 

No. 14. Vocational guidance. 

No. 15. Monthly record of current educational publications. Index. 
*No, 16. The tangible rewards of teaching. James C. Boykin and Roberta King. 50 cts. 

No. 17. Sanitary survey of the schools of Orange County, Va. Roy K. Flannagan. 

No. 18. The public-school system of Gary, Ind. William P. Burris. 

No. 19. University extension in the United States. Louis E. Reber. 

No. 20. The rural school and hookworm disease. J. A. Ferrell. 

No. 21. Monthly record of current educational publications, Septemlier, 1914. 

No. 22. The Danish folk high schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 23. Some trade schools ia Europe. Frank L. Glyim. 

No. 24. Danish elementary rural schools. H. W. Foght. 

No. 25. Important features in rural school improvement. W. T. Hodges. 

No. 26. Monthly record of current educational publications, October, 1914. 
*No. 27. Agricultural teaching. 15 cts. 

No. 28. The Montessori method and the kindergarten. Elizabeth Harrison. 

No. 29. The kindergarten in benevolent institutions. 

No. 30. Consolidation of rural schools and transportation of pupils at public expense. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 31. Report on the work of the Bureau of Education for the natives of Alaska. 

No. 32. Bibliography of the relation of secondary schools to higher education. R. L. Walkley. 

No. 33. Music in the public schools. Will Earhart. 

No. 34. Library instruction in universities, colleges, and normal schools. Henry R. Evans. 

No. 35. The training of teachers in England, Scotland, and Germany. Charles H. Judd. 

No. 36. Education for the home — Parti. General statement. B.R.Andrews. 

No. 37. Education for the home— Part II. State action, schools, agencies. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 38. Education for the home — Part III. Colleges and universities. B. R. Andrews. 

No. 39. Education for the home— Part IV. Bibliography, list of schools. B.R.Andrews. 

No. 40. Care of the health of boys in Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa. 

No. 41. Monthly record of current educational publications, November, 1914. 

No. 42. Monthly record of current educational publications, December, 1914. 

No. 43. Educational directory, 1914-15. 

No. 44. County-unit organization for the administration of rural schools. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 45. Curricula in mathematics. J. C. Brown. 

No. 46. School savings banks. Mrs. Sara L. Oberholtzer. 

No. 47. City training schools for teachers. Frank A. Manny. 

No. 48. The educational museum of the St. Louis public schools. C. G. Rathman. 

No. 49. Efficiency and preparation of rural school teachers. H. W. Foght. 

No. 50. Statistics of State universities and State colleges. 

1915. 

No. 1. Cooking in the vocational school. Iris P. O 'Leary. 

No. 2. Monthly record of current educational publications, January, 1915. 

No. 3. Monthly record of current educational publications, February, 1915. 

No. 4. The health of school children. W. H. Heck. 

No. 5. Organization of State departments of education. A. C. Monahan. 

No. 6. A study of colleges and high schools. 

No. 7. Accredited secondary schools in the United States. Samuel P. Capen. 

No. 8. Present status of the honor system in colleges and imiversities. Bird T. Baldwin. 

No. 9. Monthly record of current educational publications, March, 1915. 

No. 10. Monthly record of current educational publications, April, 1915. 

No. 11. A statistical study of the public school systems of the southern Appalachian Mountains. 

Norman Frost. 
No. 12. History of public-school education in Alabama. Stephen B. Weeks. 



o 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 672 



'jtack 



bulletin. 



1 . \^ . ' 




05b 



ho^.\-l3 



(? 



• 



mmtmmtmmmmmimm^mmmmmmmiim 



BOSTON 

PUBLIC 

LIBRARY 











^,^'}\Hm 



■i)j''<'i' 












ii 



■iiil 



fm,m^ 



•mm 



if^^^f 









'mm 



-;<.;'' 






w,i-!;; :■: :';i:!i 



-■'ill 



mi. 



mm 



