IL'a 




Class _ZZ^y0; 

Bnnk . /fm\ 
Copyright )^° 

COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT 



iSetd Centurp Club poofe 
of l&etipe^ 



lijUiAr CX^vJtil^ JLui-, f^jU^f^cUljtA*-'^ 



THE PHILADELPHIA 

NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BOOK OF RECIPES 

CONTRIBUTED BY MEMBERS 
OF THE CLUB 



COMPILED AND EDITED BY 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

PRESIDENT 




PHILADELPHIA 

THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

1915 






Copyright, 1915, by 
The New Century Club 



4 



/^ 



JAN 28 1916 



jForetPorb 

There is high authority for it, that of making of books there is no 
end. Many cook books might easily be a weariness to the flesh ; but this 
little book goes forth confident of a welcome. It does not profess to be 
a book on cookery; it is what is far better, a imique collection of tried 
and tested recipes, many of which have been handed down from one 
generation to another and have never before been in print. They have 
been contributed by club members, many of whom have generously 
brought forth from cherished old manuscript books, written by hands 
long vanished, the most favorite family formulas for compounding things 
good to eat. There is a delightftd personal quality about these recipes, 
and it is interesting to see how the recipes for the same dish vary. 

It is a beautiful demonstration of the fact that club women are the 
very best home makers. They not only have their useful fingers in many 
public pies, but they look well to the ways of their own households. 

The income from the sale of this Book of Recipes is to be used for 
the purchase of Club china and for other special objects, so that not 
only those who contributed their choice recipes, but each one who buys 
a copy, will have a personal share in adding to the beauty and comfort 
of this beloved club. 

Isabel McIlhenny Nichols 



^ 



(3) 



Contents^ 

PAGE 

Breads ^^ 

Soup ^^ 

Fish ^^ 

Meats ^^ 

Vegetables ^ ' 

Entrees ^^ 

Pickles, Relishes ^^ 

Salads 1^^ 

Puddings ^ ^ ^ 

Pies ^^^ 



Desserts . 



153 



Ices 1^^ 

Fruits — Preserved, Canned 169 

Jellies, Jams 1^' 

Cakes ^^^ 

Candies ^^^ 

Beverages ^^^ 



(5) 



Sntrobuction 

Our most cherished possessions are apt to be the family heirlooms, 
the fumitvire, the hand-made qtiilts, the old laces of our great-grand- 
mothers. We learned to care for them first, because they were grand- 
mother's; and then we began to learn and understand their worth and 
their beauty. 

Among the personal records, which we have learned to regard as so 
valuable, can be found hand-written receipt books containing those price- 
less recipes which were perfected in some one home and exchanged between 
friends and neighbors. 

We are pennitting, in many places, valuable papers and homely 
records of family life to be destroyed and lost. Of the interesting com- 
mittees in some clubs are those called the Landmark Committees, whose 
duty it is to preserve the history and record of the fast-growing town or 
community, its landmarks, whether these be individual or public. This 
work should be encouraged and commended. 

There should be the same measure of congratulation given to any 
club which is preserving for us those valuable, tried and true recipes, 
which have been used by the most notable housekeepers of a community. 
Philadelphia has a reputation for good cooking, and we are all glad to 
welcome a contribution in the actual classics of this particular form of 
literature. Can there not be classic recipes as there are classic poems, and 
for the same reasons? 

In our search for the scientific basis of the art of cooking, in our 
study of its chemistry and physics, we must never lose sight of the fact 
that no matter how much we may know as to why baking powder or 
yeast act as they do, it is of little avail unless our knowledge enables us 
to make a good muffin or good bread each time. Recipes are but the 
worked-out proportions which will produce a desired resvdt. Without 
them we would each have to solve the problem anew for ourselves, and 
today we have not time. There are other more necessary things to do. 

So we welcome this little book from a club of women noted among 
clubs and among women for their good works of many kinds. 

Helen Louise JoHrjsoN, 
Chairman, Home Economics Department, 
General Federation Women's Clubs 

(7) 



" To be a good cook means the knowledge of all herbs, fruits, balms 
and spices, and all that is healing and sweet in fields and groves and 
savory in meats. It means carefiUness, inventiveness, watchftdness, 
willingness and readiness of appliance. It means the economy of your 
great-grandmother and the science of modem chemistry. It means much 
tasting and no wasting ; it means English thoroughness, French art and 
Arabian hospitality. It means, in fine, that you are to be perfectly and 
always, ladies, * loaf -givers, ' and you are to see that everybody has 
something good to eat." — ^Ruskin. 



(9) 



IRedpe for an Sbeal Club 

Take two parts of desire for a larger living, or what we term cul- 
ture, and two parts of intelligent interest in the vital questions of the 
day, and mix them with enough sociability to make a light sponge, and 
set it away to rise. When it has risen to about twice the original bulk, 
add some carefully picked officers and directors — washed in the waters 
of self-sacrifice and plentifully dredged with perseverance. Then add one 
part civic work, or as much as your town (or state) requires, and one part 
philanthropic activity; allow a gospel measure of the genial spirit of reci- 
procity for sweetening, and cream it up with fresh, rich thought and potir 
it in ; add enough of the milk of human kindness to make a smooth batter. 
Take a whole heart full of enthusiasm, and dilute it with a little common 
sense, and when the alkali of the enthusiasm unites with the acid of com- 
mon sense in a foaming mass — stir it quickly into the mixture. Then 
add yoiu" spices — womanliness, tact, htmior, broad-mindedness and talent 
— ^with a dash of difference of opinion. 

Now take a dozen fresh committees, and beat them up well — beat 
them up imtil they are stiff enough to stand alone, and toss them in; 
then throw in your afternoon programs — not too full, as they must have 
room enough to swell up, with animated discussion. Lastly add your 
flavoring — Robert Browning's extract of optimism, though some prefer 
Emerson's. There is also a new article on the market, which many use 
and consider equal to optimism, known as Fletcherism; but any good 
optimism will do. 

Now beat the whole up well with individual effort — and on this the 
whole success of the club depends. When thoroughly beaten, potu- it 
into a large vessel of opportimity, which has been previously well greased 
with Roberts' Rules of Order to keep it from sticking, and set it in a com- 
fortable clubhouse for from one and a half to two hours — it depends upon 
the temperament manifested. Test it by inserting a splint from the broom 
of experience, which splint, when the club is done, must come out clean 
and shining. When it has cooled a little, make an icing of afternoon teas, 
lectures, and various entertainments, and spread thickly over the top. 
This will make a feast of reason and a flow of soul for about one hundred 
members. Serve it once a week or every two weeks. 

Elizabeth A. Cornett, 
Woman's Club, Phoenixville, Pa. 
(11) 



(grace JBefote iHeat 

John Cennick, 1741 

Be present at our table, Lord, 
Be here and everywhere ador'd : 
Thy creatures bless, and grant that we, 
May feast in Paradise with Thee. 

Contributed by Mrs. Thomas J. Garland 



(13) 



preabs 

To make your needy bread, and give them life. — Pericles. 



(13) 



BREAD 

1 quart milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 quart water 2 tablespoons lard 

1 tablespoon (heaping) salt 1 yeast cake 

Scald the milk and turn into the bread pan; add the salt, sugar, 
and lard; stir until melted; add the water (lukewarm), then add the 
yeast cake, which has been dissolved in lukewarm water. Then add 
enough flour to make a batter, beat thoroughly for fifteen minutes, or 
until batter is full of air bubbles; then add enough flour to make a dough. 
Take it out on a baking board as soon as it is stiff enough to do so, and 
knead quickly and Hghtly for 45 minutes. Use as little flour as possible, 
just enough to keep it from sticking to the board or hands. If a bread 
mixer is used, less time is required than when kneading with the hands. 
Now put it back into the bread pan, cover, and let stand in a warm place 
until morning; it should then have more than doubled its bulk. Mould 
into loaves, knead each loaf, put into greased pans, and stand away until 
light. Bake in a moderately quick oven for 1 hour and 10 minutes. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

NUT BREAD 

1 cup nuts, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk Vz cup sugar 

2 gggs 4 cups white flour 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix well together and let stand 20 minutes, then put in two small 

bread pans and bake ^ of an hour. 

Miss Gertrude A. Barrett 

NUT BREAD 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon melted butter 

1 ggg 4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

11/2 cups milk 4 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 c"P chopped (not ground) EngUsh 

walnut kernels 

Beat sugar and egg together. Walnut kernels should be mixed with 
a little flour. Stand 20 minutes. Bake in slow oven 1 hour. 

Mrs. Mary C. D. Geisler 

2 (17) 



18 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

NUT BREAD 

V4 cup brown sugar 2 cups Graham flour 

V2 cup molasses 1 cup white flour 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup chopped wahiuts 

2 cups millr (sweet or sour) A little salt 

This should be made the day before it is to be used. 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 

NUT BREAD 

4 cups whole wheat flour 1 pound chopped English walnuts 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups milk 

Sift flour, sugar and baking powder through flour sifter. Mix dry 
ingredients thoroughly. Beat eggs, add milk and pour into flour; stir 
thoroughly. Bake in moderate oven, \}i hours for large loaf; for two 
small loaves, ^ hour. 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 

NUT BREAD 

1 cup scalded mUk 1 cup white flour 

34 cake yeast 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup whole wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (even) English walnut meats 

When milk is cooled stir in yeast. Set to rise, keeping very warm 
for about an hour. When light, add sugar, salt and walnut meats (broken) ; 
then add enough whole wheat flour to make a batter stiff enough to spoon 
out into a buttered basin. Let rise again and bake about 45 minutes. 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth, 
President, The New Century Club of Kennett Square, Pa. 

NUT BREAD 

1 egg 4 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

IV2 cups milk A pinch of salt 

IV^ cups chopped English walnuts 

Let raise 20 minutes, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. 
This will make two small loaves. This makes very good sandwiches, 
spread either with butter or cheese. 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



19 



NUT BREAD 



3 cups Graham or whole wheat flour 
1 cup white flour 

1 cup sugar 

4 teaspoons baking powder 



1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk 

1 cup wahiuts (chopped) 
1 egg 



The nuts are prepared and chopped. Mix the dry ingredients 
and add the chopped nuts, Add the egg well beaten and the milk. 
Pour into a well-greased pan and let it rise 20 minutes and bake 50 
minutes to 1 hour in a moderate oven. This makes one loaf. Sliced 
very thin and buttered it is delicious with afternoon tea. 

Mrs. John I. McGuigan 



2 cups white flour 
2 cups Graham flour 
y-i cup sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 



QUICK NUT BREAD 

1 cup nuts 

4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 
1 egg 

IV2 cups milk 
1 tablespoon melted butter 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 



OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH CAKE 



1 yeast cake 

2 eggs 

1 pint milk 

y^ pint fine granulated sugar 



V2 pint pitted raisins 

1 spoon each of lard and butter, mixed 

Vi nutmeg, grated 

V2 teaspoon salt 



Put the milk on to scald (do not let it boil) ; while this is being done, 
beat the eggs together until very light. As soon as the milk is scalded 
take it from the fire and immediately add eggs and shortening; then 
stand this aside to cool; then add sugar, salt and yeast and sufficient 
flour for a very thin sponge. Set the sponge at night. In the morning 
add raisins, well floured, then add more flour to make a dough, not quite 
so stiff as for bread. Knead very little. Cover and set aside for a few 
hours (according to the weather) until it has become light, after which 
di\'ide, with well-floured hands, into two loaves as quickly as possible, 
without kneading; then place in greased pans and set in a warm place to 
get light. Bake in a moderately hot oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

Mrs. Henry Delaplaine 



20 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DUTCH CAKE 

On baking day when bread is ready for pans take enough for small 
loaf and with it mix — 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon lard 

1 cup sugar Raisins to taste 

Beat well. Set to rise. When light take — 

Vz cup brown sugar Butter the size of a big walnut 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

Spread on top and bake. 

Mrs. George H. Vanderbeck 



GRAHAM BREAD 

V2 puit com meal 2 teaspoons salt 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon molasses 

1 yeast cake 

Make corn meal into a thin mush, add water, salt and molasses. 
Make a thick batter with unbolted flour, adding 1 basting spoonful of 
wheat flour; add yeast cake and let rise in the bread pans. When light 
bake in a moderate oven. This makes four small loaves. 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 



GRAHAM BREAD 

(This is recommended by a physician as especially wholesome; con- 
veniently made because baked immediately after mixing.) 

5 cups Graham floiu" 1 cup com meal 

1 cup white flour 2 teaspoons (level) salt 

Mix these dry ingredients, then add two level teaspoons baking 
soda, dissolved in — 

yx cup warm molasses 2 cups sweet milk 

2 cups sour milk 

If necessary, water may be substituted largely for the sweet milk. 
Bake in a slow oven 1>^ to 2 hours. 

Mrs. H. H. White, 
President, New Century Club of Pottstown, Pa. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 21 

GRAHAM BREAD 

(An excellent health bread which I am using in my own family 
with good results.) 

2 cups Graham flour iVz cups milk 

2 cups bran (Educator) flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt "^h cup New Orleans molasses 

Mix Graham flour, bran flour and salt in one bowl. Mix milk, bak- 
ing powder and molasses in another bowl and add to the first. Bake 
1 hour in slow oven. Do not beat or knead. Just stir like a cake. 

Mrs. a. W. Robinson 



STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

11/2 cups Graham flour 1 pint sweet milk 

2 cups com meal Vz teaspoon soda 

1/2 cup molasses Salt, and sprinkle of ginger 

Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 



MY GRANDMOTHER'S CORN BREAD 

1 cup (small) sugar 2 cups com meal (sifted with wheat 

2 eggs with salt, beaten hard floiu-) 

2 cups wheat flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups sweet milk 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix sugar and eggs in milk, then add floiir and com meal sifted 
together. Steam 1 hotu-, and put in oven for 10 minutes. 

Mrs. John D. McIlhenny 



BATTER BREAD OR CORN PONE 

1 pint milk, scalded (not boiled) 1 cup cold rice or hominy (cooked) 

1 cup com meal 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Piece of melted butter Salt to taste 

Pour milk over com meal. When cool, stir in eggs, melted butter, 
and rice or hominy. Just before putting into oven add baking powder. 
Use pudding dish and bake 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Elmore C. Hine 



22 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD 

1 pound flour Vi pound sugar 

V2 pound butter 2 ounces rice flour 

Rub the butter into flour and sugar, divide in two cakes, pinch the 
edges, prick the center with a fork, and bake slowly in a moderate oven 
till brown. Mrs. A. Gallatin Talbott 

CHRISTMAS BREAD 

(Mary R, Heygate-Hall's Recipe) 

134 pounds flour 2 ounces lard 

1 pound currants, seeded 2 eggs 

34 pound raisins V2 ounce cream of tartar 

34 pound sugar Vi ounce baking soda 
Vi pound citron or 

Vi pound orange peel 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 oxmces butter 1 pint milk 

Bake in bread pans. Miss Anne Heygate-Hall 

BATH BREAD 

1 pound flour 3 eggs (yolks) 

Vi pound sugar 2 ounces currants 

Vi pound butter 1 yeast cake 

Sprinkle of nutmeg 

Set over night, with warm milk enough to make a batter you can 
beat. Let rise, put flotu- on board, take out with spoon, rub in flour and 
shape. Let rise again, and bake. Mrs. Alfred Mellor 

BREAD CAKES 

1 pint milk 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 quart stale bread 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (small) flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Break the bread in small pieces, soak over night in the milk. In the 
morning beat into this the flour, eggs, salt, sugar and baking powder. 
Add enough milk to make the cakes form on griddle. Do not have 
batter too thick. Serves 4 to 6 people. 

Miss Helen A. Childs 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



23 



SPOON BREAD 



4 eggs, beaten separately 
1 cup cooked hominy grits 
4 tablespoons white corn meal 
1 pint milk 

After mixing, bake in shallow tin. 



1 teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter 



Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 



1 cup cooked hominy 
4 tablespoons com meal 
1 pint milk 
i tablespoon butter 



SPOON BREAD 



1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

4 eggs 



Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately. 
and bake in oven. A Southern dish. 

Mrs. 



Mix all well together 
Mary S. Johnson 



VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD 



1 pint milk 

1 teacup yellow corn meal 

Butter the size of an egg 



2 eggs, well beaten 

Salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 



Boil the milk, stir in com meal; let stand for a few minutes. Add 
melted butter, eggs, salt and baking powder. Bake in oven about 25 
minutes. The medium grade of com meal is better than the fine. 

Mrs. Charles H. Guilbert 



BEDFORD ROLLS (Wonderful) 



y-i pint milk (good measure) 
2 tablespoons lard 



1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon sugar 
V2 yeast cake 



Melt lard and milk together. Make soft batter (as for rusk); add 
yeast dissolved in warm water. In winter, start at 11 a. m. At 4 p. m. 
it will be "light as a feather." Make soft dough. By 5 p. m. it will be 
ready to roll out. Cut with cake tin — don't handle much. Put, not 
touching each other, into greased pans. Bake 20 minutes in hot oven. 
Serve hot at 6 p. m. This will make 12 to 15 lovely rolls. 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 



24 NEWCENTURYCLUB 

ANNA'S DINNER OR LUNCH ROLLS 

1 yeast cake 2 tablespoons lard or butter 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled White of 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 cups sifted floixr 

Yz teaspoon salt 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk. Add white of egg 
beaten till stiff, the floiu- gradually, the lard or butter, and lastly the 
salt, keeping dough soft. Knead lightly, using as little flour in kneading 
as possible. Place in a well-greased bowl. Cover and set to rise in a 
warm place, free from draft, until it doubles in bulk (about 2 hotu*s). 
Mould into rolls the size of walnuts. Place far apart in well-greased pans, 
protect from draft and let rise }4 hour, or until light. Glaze with white 
of egg diluted with water. Bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 

It makes very pretty little rolls to put three balls of dough about the 
size of a good-sized marble into muffin rings or patty pans and bake. It 
comes out a clover leaf shape. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

TEA ROLLS 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cake Vienna yeast 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 

Warm milk slightly and in it dissolve yeast cake. Add flour to make 
a sponge about as thick as for batter cakes. Set in a warm place for 
2 hours, then add butter, sugar, salt, and flour to make a dough. Knead 
until it cracks and does not stick to hands. Let it rise 2 hotu-s more, then 
roll out about one-half inch thick and cut with small biscuit cutter. Allow 
to rise in pans about 2 hours and bake in very quick oven — first put on 
bottom and then top of oven. 

Mrs. William Burnham 

BREAKFAST BISCUITS 

2 cups flour A little salt 

11/2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup milk 

Sift baking powder, sugar and salt with the flour. Work butter in 
very lightly, stir in milk, roll gently, cut with biscuit cutter and bake in 
quick oven 15 minutes. Mrs. Theron I. Crane 



BOOK OF RECIPES 25 

SWEET POTATO BISCUIT 

iVi pounds sweet potatoes Flour enough to make a sponge 

1 pint milk 6 ounces lard 

1/2 cup (large) yeast A little salt 

Boil and strain the sweet potatoes through a colander; pour hot 
milk over them; add flour. Let it rise from nine o'clock until eleven, 
then add lard and salt. Work well for half an hoiu", let it rise again, 
and bake. Biscuits will be improved if moulded 2 hours before baking. 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 

MILK BISCUIT 

1 quart fresh milk Butter the size of a walnut 

1 yeast cake A little sugar and salt 

Put yeast cake in half a ttmibler of tepid water with teaspoon of sugar. 
Set it in a warm place (not too hot) until the yeast rises, then put it in 
warm milk, add butter and flour to make a nice sponge; beat thoroughly 
and let sponge rise ; then add salt and more flour, just enough to knead, 
and set in warm place. When light, make into small biscuits with biscuit 
cutter; brush over with milk before putting them in oven. This quan- 
tity will make two large pans of biscuits. Mrs. Isaac H. Clothier 

ELLEN'S BISCUITS 

1 pint flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

V2 pint milk 1/^ teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 14 teaspoon salt 

Sift baking powder into flour, rub in the butter with hands, add 
milk last. Turn out on board and roll only enough to smooth top, very 
lightly. Cut and bake at once in quick oven. Speed and light touch 
required. Mrs. C. L. Peirce 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 eggs 11/2 tablespoons lard 
1/2 pint milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat eggs, sugar and lard smooth, then add milk. Add sufficient 
flotir to make a batter not too stiff. Bake in well-greased muffin tins in 
a hot oven. Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 



26 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

POPOVERS 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

1 cup flour V2 teaspoon salt 

Bake 30 to 40 minutes in moderate oven, in small brown bowls half 
full. One of our old family recipes, and delicious. 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 

MRS. CHARLES D. B. BARNEY'S CREAM MUFFINS 

3 tablespoons (level) butter 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar V2 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs 2 cups flour 

4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

Cream the butter, add sugar, separate eggs, beat the whites and add 
them to the unbeaten yolks; to the butter and sugar add the milk, salt, 
flour and baking powder; then add the eggs. Fill greased mufhn pans 
two-thirds full and bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. Substitute com 
meal, rye or Graham flour for 1 cup of the wheat flour, and you will have 
the different muffins. It is excellent also for cottage pudding. 

Miss Mary Janney 

OLD-FASHIONED MUFFINS 

2 cups flour Va teaspoon salt 

1 pint milk (warm) 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Made in rings on griddle on top of stove to brown on under side. 
Make a thick batter and fill the rings half full. Turn over when rings 
are filled and browned. 

Miss Emily Campbell 

QUEEN MUFFINS 

Vi cup butter 1 cup milk 

1 egg IV2 cups flour 

1/3 cup sugar 11/2 teaspoons baking powder 

Sift all dry materials, work in butter with tips of fingers. Add egg 
well beaten with the milk. Cook in hot oven 10 minutes. Put in gem 
pans about half full to allow for raising. 

Mrs. William A. Wiederseim 



BOOK OF RECIPES 27 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups fiotu: 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

IV2 teaspoons baking powder 

Beat the eggs and sugar together with a spoon, add the milk and 
salt, then stir the flour in very smooth. After the batter is smooth, put 
in the melted butter. Last of all, add the baking powder, but do not stir 
or beat the batter much after the baking powder is in. Bake from 15 to 
20 minutes. Mrs. William P. Potter 

GRAHAM GEMS 

2 eggs, beaten light 2 cups Graham flour 
2 cups milk V4 teaspoon salt 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Mix the ingre- 
dients thoroughly and beat light. Heat the gem pans and butter them, 
then pour in the mixture and bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. Use no 
baking powder. Miss Virginia Hartshorne 

GEMS 

1 egg Vx teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup water Vz cup milk 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 cup flour 

Beat the egg light, yolk and whites together; put in the milk, add 
the flour, water, salt and butter melted. Have gem tins warm, put in 
batter. They are just like a popover — must be eaten as they come from 
the oven. 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 



SALLY LUNN 

\y-2. pints milk 5 oimces butter and lard mixed 

2Vi pounds flovu: A little salt 

5 eggs \y^ tablespoons sugar 

Vz yeast cake 

Put at once into greased pans and let rise for about 7 hours. An 
old recipe from Mrs. Alfred Paull of Wheeling, West Virginia. 

Miss LiDA Paull Fife 



28 NEW CENTURY CLUB 



SALLY LUNN 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups flour 

1 egg (beaten separately) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 



VIRGINIA SALLY LUNN 

IV2 pounds flour 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 pint new milk V2 yeast cake 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Melt the butter and add to milk, then poirr over the sifted flour; 
add the eggs, yeast (dissolved) and salt. Mix all together in a batter 
rather stiffer than that for cake, and pour in large cake mould or pans 
well greased. Set in warm place to rise, and when very light bake in 
moderate oven for nearly an hour. 



Miss Mary Janney 



CINNAMON BUN 



2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

^2 teaspoon salt 2 cups granulated sugar 

1 tablespoon (heaping) lard Flour 

3 cups milk and water (scalding) Seedless raisins and currants 

2 yeast cakes Nutmeg and cinnamon 

Put sugar, salt and lard into a four-quart bowl. Pour over it milk 
and water. When cool add yeast cakes dissolved in 1 cup of lukewarm 
water and stir in enough flour to make a rather stiff batter. 

When it rises two thirds of the way to the top of the bowl, stir in 
eggs beaten well into sugar and a little nutmeg, and add a little more 
flour. When it rises to the top of the bowl, knead with a little flotir. 
Take off a portion a little larger than the fist and roll out on the board 
about one half inch thick. Spread thicldy with soft butter, and about 
three-quarter inch thick with dark brown sugar; cover with seedless 
raisins and currants, and sprinkle thickly with powdered cinnamon. 
Roll up like a jelly roll; cut off slices two inches thick and stand on end 
in a deep pan well greased with lard. Shake cinnamon over the top and 
let rise again. When light bake in a very slow oven (thermometer 6) 
for nearly an hour, and turn out immediately on buttered plates. 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 



BOOK OF RECIPES 29 

CINNAMON BUNS 

y^ pound sugar V4 ounce salt 

V4 pound butter 1/2 ounce yeast 

3 eggs 1 pint lukewarm water 

Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs and salt. Dissolve yeast 
in water, and add flour enough to make a warm dough. Let it stand 
over night in a warm place, of about 70 degrees. In morning roll dough 
out to about quarter of an inch thick. Spread with melted butter, sugar, 
cinnamon and currants. Roll and cut in pieces and put in well-greased 
pan. Put sugar in greased pan before putting in buns. Let rise until 
light and bake in moderate oven for about 1 hour. Be careful that oven 
is not too hot. 

This will make about two dozen cinnamon buns. 

Miss Abby A. Sutherland 

SPANISH BUN 

Vi pound butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 pound sugar 4 eggs 

% pound flour (sifted) 1 cup cream 

V-fi cups cleaned currants 

Beat the butter, sugar and yolks well together. Then add cream and 
whites, well beaten; stir in flour with baking powder mixed in it. Last, 
the ciurants mixed with a tablespoon of floiur to keep them from sticking. 
Bake in round bread pans not too large. 

Mrs. J. Gibson McIlvain 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

1/2 pound flotir % pint milk (nearly) 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 4 tablespoons boiled cream of wheat or 

boiled rice 

Stir flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together and slowly add 
the milk. Beat imtil very smooth. Add the yolk (beaten) of the egg. 
Then stir in the cream of wheat or rice and beat until smooth. Add the 
melted butter and fold in the stiff beaten whites of the eggs. This makes 
about 6 griddles of 4 small cakes. 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 



30 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OLD-FASHIONED BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

1 quart buckwheat flotir 1 % pints warm water 

1 tablespoon New Orleans molasses Vz yeast cake dissolved in 

1 small tablespoon salt V2 cup warm water 

Potir gradually on the flour, mix carefully, beat hard, cover, and set 
to rise for about 6 hours. Bake on hot griddle. Serve on a cold winter 
night with sausage that has been parboiled before browning it. 

Mrs. Eugene H. Austin 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

33^ cups buckwheat floiu: 2 large spoons New Orleans molasses 

1 level teaspoon salt 1 yeast cake 

V^ teaspoon baking soda Cold water, enough to make a batter 

Beat thoroughly. Dissolve yeast cake in ^ cup of lukewarm water, 
mix and let rise over night. In the morning add baking soda, dissolved 
in boiling water. Bake thoroughly on hot griddle. 

Miss G. B. McIlhenny 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

V2 yeast cake Buckwheat 

Mix enough buckwheat in lyi cups of water to make a rather stiff 
batter; add yeast dissolved in a little warm water. Stand in a warm 
place over night. In the morning, add — 

1 tablespoon molasses 1 egg 

Salt V2 teaspoon baking soda 

Thin with milk — quite thin, A recipe from the South which we 
have used many years quite successfully. 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups buckwheat flour 2 to 3 cups lukewarm water 
1/2 cup white flour 1/2 yeast cake 

^2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon molasses 

Vi teaspoon soda (just before baking) 

Beat thoroughly and set to rise over night. Mix in order given above, 
molasses as weU as soda to be added in the morning. 

Miss Helen Lippincott 



BOOKOFRECIPES 31 

FLUME HOUSE FLANNEL CAKES 

Vz cup yeast V2 cup (short) butter 

1 1/2 cups new milk 1 tablespoon granulated sugar 

3 cups flour 

Warm the milk and melt the butter in it, then put in the flour, sugar 
and a little salt. Let stand over night. In the morning put into gem 
pans, let stand 1 hoiu- to rise, then bake 1/2 hour in a quick oven. An old 
and well-tried recipe, and not taken from any receipt book. 

Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 



CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 pint corn meal 1 tablespoon molasses 
IV2 pints milk 1/2 cup flour 

2 eggs 1 scant spoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

Put com meal in mixing pan, add salt. Scald the milk, add butter 
when hot, pour over com meal and beat well; add molasses. Let it cool, 
then add flour, well-beaten eggs and baking powder. Keep in a cool 
place and it will be good for foiu: or five days if not all needed at one meal. 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson . 



" SCHECKEN " 

1 yeast cake 3 cups flour (sifted) 

1 cup milk (scalded and cooled) V2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar Brown sugar 

2 tablespoons butter (melted) White of I egg 

Raisins and nuts 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk. Add beaten ^g<g, then 
the flour gradually, then butter and salt, leaving dough as soft as can be 
handled. Place in bowl, and allow it to raise about two hours. When 
light roll out as thin as pie crust. Spread with melted butter, brown sugar 
and raisins very thickly. Roll tightly and slice in about half -inch slices. 
Pour melted butter in cake tins, sprinkle heavily with nuts, brown sugar 
and cinnamon. When done turn out on waxed paper immediately 
upon removing from oven. The bottom of roll should be top when 
served. The quantity of nuts and raisins used depends upon the taste 
or judgment of the cook. 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 



32 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

WAFFLES 

3 eggs 3 teacups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 quart milk 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder 

Beat the eggs and salt together until light. Into the beaten eggs, 
stir most of the flour and part of the milk. Beat well until it bubbles 
and is very light, then add the butter, the baking powder in the rest of 
the flour and the rest of the milk. Bake in hot waffle irons. Half this 
quantity for a small family. 



Mrs. Robert P. Brown 



FRENCH WAFFLES 

3V2 cups flour 1 tablespoon butter 

IV2 cups milk 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs IV2 teaspoons baking powder 

Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately. With other ingredients 
mix well together and beat very light. Grease the waffle iron just once 
at the beginning. Have iron very hot. This will serve 6 people. 

Miss Emma R. Jack 

WAFFLES 

4 eggs 1 quart rich milk 

31/2 scant cups flour (after it is sifted) 4 teaspoons (heaping) baking powder 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately. Beat yolks, then add 
milk and floiir; mix baking powder through flour. Beat whites of eggs 
very light and stir very little after adding to batter. 

Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 



^oup 



Boil thou first i' the charmed pot. — Macbeth. 



ii3) 



TOMATO SOUP 

1 quart tomatoes 3 tablespoons sugar 
1/4 onion 3 pints water 

2 ounces flour 1/2 pint milk 

4 ounces butter Salt and pepper 

Boil tomatoes and onion in water ^ of an hour; add salt, pepper and 
sugar. Rub butter and flour together until very smooth. Boil all together 
10 minutes. Boil milk separately. When both are boiling, pour the 
milk into the tomatoes very slowly. Serve with croutons or Swedish 
milk biscuit. Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup water 2 tablespoons butter 

4 cloves 3 tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion 

Cook tomatoes, water, cloves and onion 20 minutes, strain, bind with 
butter and flour rubbed together and strain into tureen. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

ONION SOUP 

Cut up 4 onions. Fry in >^ cup of butter until soft but not browned. 
Put in casserole, cover with 2 quarts of rich stock, add parsley. Put cover 
on casserole and bake for 1 hour. Pieces of toast in casserole, one for 
each person at time of serving, or serve in botiillon cups. 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 

ONION SOUP 

Cut three large onions (white) into slices, put into saucepan with 
a pat of butter, salt and sugar, fry to a light brown. Sprinkle over some 
flour, pour in 3 cups boiling water, add a few sprays of parsley, small 
bay leaf, little salt, boil quickly about 5 minutes, thicken soup with 
yolks of 3 eggs. Warm it up without letting it boil, add a little butter 
in bits, take out bay leaf and parsley, place slice of toast in soup plate, 
sprinkle a bit of pepper, pour over soup, grate Parmesan cheese over top. 
If small onions are used more than three would be necessary. 

Mrs. Edward L. Reynolds 

(35) 



36 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ONION SOUP WITH CHEESE (Italian) 

Make a veal stock. When ready to use — fry 4 large onions cut very 
thin, in little butter — put at once into ttireen, pour over this the hot veal 
stock, having already prepared thin round pieces of toast, thickly covered 
with grated Swiss cheese (J4 pound), which are placed at once in the 
soup. Cover immediately, as the steam from soup causes the cheese 
to melt, and serve at once from the tiireen. Any cheese left over may 
be added to the soup. The excellence of this soup depends on quick 
preparation and immediate service. Mrs. William B. Campbell 

SPINACH SOUP 

1 quart spinach 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 quarts milk 4 ounces butter 

Pepper, salt and mace 

Boil spinach until tender, chop and put through a sieve. Boil the 
milk, flavor with salt, pepper and mace; add cornstarch for thickening; 
put in the spinach and butter. Boil up once and serve. 

The Misses Esherick 

SPINACH SOUP 

1 quart spinach 2 tablespoons flour 

2 quarts milk Vi pound butter 

Salt, pepper and mace 

Boil spinach till tender; chop and put through sieve. Boil milk; 
flavor with salt, pepper and mace. Rub together flour and butter, stir 
into milk, which should be in double boiler; add spinach, which must 
be very fine and not "stringy," and boil up once. 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit 

CLAM PUREE 

30 clams 1 tablespoon flour 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Vz cup cream 1 teaspoon salt 

A dash of paprika 

Mash the clams through a colander and heat in a saucepan. Mix 
flour and butter and then the cream and stir into the milk already heated 
in a double boiler. Stir the dressing into the hot clams, but do not cook 
the clams. This is for 6 people. Mrs. C. P. Turner 



BOOK OF RECIPES 37 

CLAM SOUP 

3 potatoes, cut fine 2 quarts water 

1 cup com 18 clams, chopped 

1 cup tomatoes 1 quart milk 

1 onion, cut fine 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon butter 

Cook the vegetables \}i hours in water. Have ready the hot milk, 
thicken it with the butter and flour rubbed together; then add clams, 
cook 5 minutes; then add the vegetable soup and let remain at low 
temperature for 5 minutes. Serve at once. Mrs. C. L. Peirce 

CAROLINE'S BISQUE OF CLAM 

50 clams A few pepper corns 

1 quart water 1 quart fresh sweet milk 

Small pinch of onion 1 tablespoon butter 

Sprig of parsley 2 tablespoons floiir 

Chop the clams fine, put in the water, with a small pinch of onion, 
sprig of parsley and a few pepper corns; simmer for 2 hours. Put the 
milk in a farina boiler, rub the butter and flour together, stir into the 
milk and let it simmer slowly. Add thickened milk last. Do not allow 
it to boil after milk is added. Strain and serve. Do not use* the 
clam juice. Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

1 quart Tnilk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 bay leaf 1 blade mace 

l^ teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 pint stewed tomatoes (strained) 2 tablespoons flour 

or 1 saltspoon pepper 

1 pint canned tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

Put the tomatoes into a saucepan with the bay leaf and mace. Cover 
and stand on the back of the stove for 15 minutes. Put the milk in a 
double boiler. Rub the butter and flour together, soften with a little 
of the milk, then add it to the hot milk and stir constantly tmtil it is of 
a creamy thickness. Strain the tomatoes into a soup tureen; add the 
sugar and soda and pour in quickly the hot milk; stir lightly and serve 
immediately. This soup must not be cooked after the milk and tomatoes 
are mixed; the acid of the tomato will curdle the milk. Add the salt 
and pepper. Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 



38 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

1 pint black beans Vs teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts cold water Vi teaspoon mustard 

1 small onion A few grains of cayenne pepper 

2 stalks celery 3 tablespoons butter 

or V/z tablespoons flour 

Vi teaspoon celery salt 2 hard-boiled eggs 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 lemon 

Soak beans over night; in the morning drain and add cold water. 
Slice onion, and cook 5 minutes with half the butter, adding to beans, 
with celery stalks broken in pieces. Simmer 3 or 4 hours, or until beans 
are soft. Add more water as water boils away. Put through a sieve, 
re-heat to the boiling point, and add salt, pepper, mustard and cayenne 
pepper well mixed. Bind with remaining butter and flour cooked together. 
Cut eggs in thin slices, and lemon in thin slices, removing seeds. Pour 
soup over them. Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 

MOTHER'S MUTTON BROTH 

1 knuckle of mutton, weU broken 1 pint rich milk 

1 pound mutton necks, well broken 1 tablespoon rice 

1 quart cold water 1 teaspoon parsley 

Place all in a pot and slowly bring to a boil, then let simmer until 
the liquid is down to a pint. Strain this pint of liquid and add it to the 
milk, hot, in a double boiler. Now add the rice and let it heat in the 
boiler until rice is soft and perfectly done, which ought to be in about 
one-half hour. Flavor with the finely minced parsley about ten minutes 
before it is done, if it is to be served for the table, but if for the sick-room 
omit parsley. Mrs. John Gribbel 

WHITE HOUSE BOUILLON 

4 poimds lean beef 1 bimch parsley (small) 

1 teaspoon celery seed 4 blades mace 

2 onions 12 cloves 

2 carrots 2 eggs (whites) 

Boil the beef 4 hours in 4 quarts of water. Then add celery seed, 
onions, carrots, parsley, mace and cloves, and boil until these are tender. 
Then strain through a bag and retiun to kettle, adding the beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Boil until clear, straining through bag again, when the bouillon 
is ready to serve. (Mrs. Harrison.) Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



BOOKOFRECIPES 39 

PEANUT SOUP 

5 cents worth of peanuts (ground) 1 teaspoon flour 

1 pint chicken stock Butter the size of a small egg 

1 pint cream 1 egg 

Add the peanuts to the boiling stock, let this boil 3 minutes, then 
add cream. When at boiling point, add the flour rubbed into the butter. 
Let this boil a minute or two, watching closely. Just before removing 
from fire add an egg, beaten, "and you have soup fit to serve kings!" 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 



CHICKEN JELLY 
1 chicken iVi quarts water 

Cut a chicken into small pieces; pound the bones with a hammer 
imtil they are crushed; put into a quart and a pint of cold water, and let 
it boil well tmtil the chicken falls to shreds. Skim the fat off while it 
boils. Strain it and put the soup away imtil it jellies. Cut off and warm 
as wanted or eat cold. 

Mary E. B. Perot 

BEEF SOUP 

(Excellent for invalids, or at any time) 

V/z pounds good beef (from bottom of 1 quart cold water 

roimd) Season with pepper and salt 

Have beef cut in squares, trim off all fat. Let stand for 3 hours at 
back of range. Don't let it boil tmtil just before it is ready to serve. 
Then season and strain. 

Mrs. Samuel Scoville, Jr. 

PALATABLE SUMMER SOUP 

Take some water from each vegetable that one boils (peas, spinach, 
tomatoes, beans, cauliflower), put in a pot with onion and parsley, and 
let cook until onion is done, season to taste; add egg, beaten light and 
serve at once. A standard German health cooking formula. 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 



40 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



FISH CHOWDER 



2 pounds fresh fish (any kind) 
2 slices salt pork or bacon 
2 sliced potatoes 
2 onions 



1 quart fresh milk 

1 tablespoon butter and flour 

Parsley 

Salt and pepper 



Parboil the fish, scrape off the skin and pick out the bones, leaving 
the fish in pieces about as big as an almond. Boil salt pork or bacon, 
cut in dice, with sliced potatoes and onions, in a small quantity of water. 
When nearly tender add the fish and boil till all the ingredients are done; 
add salt and pepper to taste. Boil in a double boiler the fresh milk 
thickened with the butter and flour rubbed together. Stir in the other 
ingredients and add chopped parsley. Mrs. John L. Appleton 



SOUP A LA REINE 



1 chicken 

V2 cup rice 
1 small carrot 

1 bay leaf 

2 cloves 
Pinch of salt 



2 quarts water 
1 pint cream 
1 small onion 
Small piece of celery 
Small piece of mace 
Butter 



Clean chicken, put in water with rice, bay leaf, mace and cloves; 
simmer gently 2 hours. Clean vegetables, cut in squares. Put butter 
in frying pan; when hot, throw in vegetables and stir until a delicate 
brown; skim them out, put in the soup kettle and simmer 1 hour longer. 
Now add the flour to the butter in the frying pan, mix and stir into the 
soup. Skim as it boils after adding the butter. Now take out the 
chicken, remove the white meat, chop very fine and put back in the soup. 
Remove the carrot, spices, etc., press the rest through a sieve. Return 
the whole into a clean kettle, add the cream, and salt to taste; boil up 
once. Wine may be added. My father's favorite soup. 

Mrs. a. Gallatin Talbott 



SOUP DUMPLINGS 



1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon salt 



1 teaspoon lard 

1 teaspoon butter 

Milk enough to make a soft dough 



Mix into a soft dough. Drop with a spoon in small pieces and boil 
rapidly for 15 minutes in the soup. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



41 



RABBIT SOUP 



2 rabbits 

2 quarts good beef stock 

1 eschalot 

1 onion 

1 bunch sweet herbs 

1 head celery 



2 carrots 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 drachm cayenne pepper 

1 glass port wine 

1 tablespoon mushroom ketchup 

Sippets of fried bread 



Cut up the rabbits, keep the Hvers apart, and fry the joints; then 
lay them in a stew-pan with the livers, and pour over the beef stock, 
and simmer for 2 hours, removing all the sctmi; then take out the backs 
of the rabbits, and cut off the meat, put back the bones and add eschalot, 
onion, sweet herbs, celery, carrots, salt, and cayenne pepper. Stew 
another hour, then strain the soup, rub the liver through a sieve, and 
heat the soup for the table, adding port wine and mushroom ketchup, 
and serve with sippets of fried bread, and the meat of the backs cut in 
dice put into the soup. 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 



Fish for fasting days, and moreover puddings and flapjacks. — Pericles. 



(43) 



BAKED FISH 

1 tablespoon butter Salt, pepper, mace 

Flour 1 egg 

V^ pint milk Bread crumbs 

Take the fish that is left over from a meal, no matter how small 
the quantity, and shred it into a small baking dish. When ready to use, 
make a sauce as follows: Melt the butter in a skillet, brown some flour 
in it, pour in the milk, season with salt, pepper and mace. When the 
sauce has boiled and thickened pour it over the fish and mix well. Beat 
up an egg thoroughly and mix in. Sprinkle bread crumbs on top, and 
cover with dabs of butter. Bake 15 or 20 minutes in a hot oven. For 
4 or 6 persons. 

Miss Tirzah L. Nichols 

SCALLOPED FISH 

3 cups flaked fish 1 quart buttered crumbs 

Va cup butter y-i teaspoon salt 

Va cup floxu Pepper 

1 quart milk 

Make a white sauce, add fish, put into baking dish, cover with 
crumbs, and set dish in pan of water. Bake until brown. This makes 
12 portions. 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 

POISSON A LA CREME 

5 pounds fish (rock or halibut) 1 tablespoon flour 

1 handful of salt Pepper and salt 

1 pint cream Cheese 

Butter the size of an egg Lemon 

Boil the fish, putting into cold water with a handful of salt; pick 
the meat off the bones. Boil the cream, butter and flour for 5 minutes; 
take off the fire and add the fish slowly. After all is in, stir gently with- 
out mashing the fish. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Ttrni all 
into a pudding dish; grate a little cheese over it, and bake not longer 
than 15 minutes. As soon as it is brown it is done. Serve with sliced 
lemon on top. Mary E. B. Perot 

(45) 



46 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FISH OR MEAT SOUFFLE 

Cod, salt or fresh fish left over 1 tablespoon butter 

Chicken, tongue or ham 1 cup milk 

2 eggs 1 cup flour 

Make sauce of yolks of eggs, butter, flour and milk. Add whites of 
eggs, well beaten; lastly, stir in fish or meat. Bake yi hour. Serve 
immediately. Season to taste. Mrs. Elmore C. Hine 

COQUILLES 

Cooked fish (any kind) Salt and pepper 

Milk sauce Tomato ketchup 

Use any kind of cooked fish picked into small bits, but halibut is 
best. Add a milk sauce (quite thin), salt, pepper, and tomato ketchup 
till quite pink. Just before baking add beaten white of egg and fill shells. 
Put shells in pan and bake about 20 minutes. White of 1 egg and 1 cup 
of sauce is sufficient for 6 shells. Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 



RHODE ISLAND CODFISH CAKES 

Boneless codfish 1 tablespoon butter 

Boiled potatoes 1 egg 

Mash twice as much potato as you have codfish — 1 cup of boneless 
fish to 2 cups of potato; will require a tablespoon of butter added to 
potato while hot. Beat the egg well before adding, and then beat all 
very thoroughly before dropping into deep hot fat, directly from the 
silver fork with which the mixture is beaten. If the old-fashioned cod- 
fish is used, soak over night, pull into pieces and boil with the potato 
in morning and proceed as directed. 

Mrs. Frank Battles 

BAKED MACKEREL 

Use small mackerel. Slit down front and put in baking pan. Put 
over it in following order — 

Chipped onions Sliced lemon 

Sliced tomatoes Sliced bacon (very thin) 

Bake 20 minutes in quick oven. 

Miss Annie Heacock 



BOOK OF RECIPES 47 

BAKED CANNED SALMON 

1 can salmon (flaked) II/2 cups milk 

1 cup bread crumbs 4 pieces bacon (finely chopped) 

1 tablespoon butter 

Bake in hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

SALMON SOUFFLE 

1 can salmon Cream 

4 eggs Salt 

Remove skin and bones from salmon and pick fine with a silver fork. 
Drop in yolks of eggs and stir thoroughly. Add cream to make it the 
consistency of cottage cheese. Add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in a buttered pan for 20 minutes in a quick oven. Do not 
add salt imtil on the table. 

Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 

SALMON SOUFFLE 

1 can salmon 1 teaspoon (heaping) flour 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons butter 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon celery or parsley 

When butter is hot (not brown) add flour; when smooth add milk 
slowly. Let it boil up once; add seasoning and salmon that has been 
minced; add well-beaten yolks of eggs; when quite cool, add well-beaten 
whites. Turn into buttered dish and bake yi hour. Serve with mush- 
room or cream sauce. 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 

LOBSTER CHOPS 

2 cups boiled lobster 1 tablespoon butter 

3 tablespoons flour 1^ nutmeg 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup cream milk Salt and cayenne pepper to taste 

Add all the seasoning to the lobster. Make cream dressing, add to 
lobster and when cool mould into chops. Dip in &gg and bread crumbs 
and fry in boiling lard. 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 



48 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TERRAPIN 

Allow the terrapin to move about in lukewarm water for a few min- 
utes before plunging them into boiling water. Boil until tender, the 
small diamond species will become tender in 20 or 30 minutes, the larger 
kind in about an hoiu*. Remove from the fire when tender and allow to 
drain for a few minutes. To open, lay on the back, head from you ; take 
off the shells and remove sand and gall bags; use great care so as not 
to break the gaU sack. Separate the meat and cut the liver and entrails 
up fine. Do not use the head, except the meat on the neck. Place all 
in the stewing kettle, barely cover with boiling water and boil half an hoiu*. 

Dressing for 2 large or 15 small terrapin: 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon red pepper (not cayenne) 

y% pound butter 3 tablespoons (scant) browned flour 

1 tablespoon (even) salt % pint cream 

Mash the yolks of the eggs into the butter, add salt, pepper, flour 
and cream. Stir all tmtil smooth and the ingredients are" thoroughly 
mixed. Add this to the prepared terrapin and let boil slowly for 15 
minutes, stirring frequently. If not thick enough, stir in a little more 
flour; if too thick, add a little boiling water. Serve in a covered dish 
very hot. Miss Jean A. Flanigen 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

(The famous recipe used by the chef of Delmonico's) 

2 lobsters (freshly boiled) 2 wineglasses good Madeira or old 
1 tablespoon butter Sherry 

Large pinch of salt Vz pint rich cream 

Large pinch of red pepper 1 cup milk 

3 eggs (yolks) 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

Split two good-sized, freshly boiled lobsters, pick and cut into inch- 
long pieces. Place them in saucepan on hot range with tablespoon of 
very good fresh butter. Season with one large pinch of salt and same 
amount of red pepper. Cook for 5 minutes, then add good Madeira or 
Sherry. Boil for 3 minutes, then set aside. Now beat yolks of eggs very 
light and add to them cream and milk. Put the whole in separate sauce- 
pan and heat very hot. Stir into it the cornstarch which has been dis- 
solved in cold water and add the mixture to the lobster. Stir gently for 
a minute longer, then turn into hot tureen or chafing dish, and have hot 
plates ready. Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 



BOOK OF RECIPES 49 

DEVILED CRABS— BALTIMORE STYLE 

1 dozen large lively crabs 1 teaspoon (heaping) black pepper 

1 cup vinegar V^ teaspoon finely minced onion 

1 tablespoon salt 1 teaspoon (even) minced parsley 

W pound butter Bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon (even) powdered mustard Sprigs of parsley 

Have ready a large pot on the range with the vinegar and salt in 
the bottom. Heat to boiling point and turn in the crabs. Steam them 
with the lid on until they turn a bright red when they are done and 
may be put out on a waiter to cool. When perfectly cold remove the 
outer shell, the sand bag and the lungs, or dead fingers, as the negroes 
call them. Scrape out from the shells all the green and yellow fat and 
put in a bowl, then pick out the white meat, being careful to avoid drop- 
ping pieces of shell into the meat. Crack the claws and pick out the 
meat, but the legs have too little in them to make it worth while to use 
them. Now add to the meat the butter, mustard, pepper, onion, and 
parsley. No salt must ever be added, as it causes the delicate crab meat 
to taste a little fishy. Wash carefully about 9 shells, and pack them 
with the meat, which shotild have been stirred very gently so as to avoid 
breaking the pieces too small. Brown some fine bread crumbs and sift 
on top and put the crabs in the oven to heat, but not to cook any more. 
Stick a small sprig of parsley in each before sending to table. 

This is an original Southern recipe, over a himdred years old, and 
is the only one in which the dressing does not injure the true taste of the 
crab. 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 



BAKED OYSTERS— CLUB STYLE 

Put oysters in half shells and sprinkle with bread crumbs, butter, 
pepper and salt. Then grate cheese over top and put in the oven to 
brown. Serve with parsley and lemon. 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 

OYSTERS ON CRACKERS 

Split common crackers, butter and brown crisply, then on each half 
cracker put as many oysters as will cover the surface, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and set in oven until the oysters grow plump. 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 

4 



50 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DEVILED CRABS 

1 dozen good crabs 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 pint milk Salt 

V4 poimd butter Cayenne pepper 

2 tablespoons flour Groimd mace 

2 or 3 eggs (yolks) Grated nutmeg 

Bread crumbs 

Remove the meat from the crabs, after boiling or steaming until 
done — perhaps 10 minutes. Scrub the shells. For 1 quart of crab meat, 
use a little over 1 pint of milk. Boil. Rub butter and flour together, thin 
with a little milk and stir into the boiling milk tmtil it thickens. If not 
smooth, mash through a sieve. Add the raw yolks of eggs. Mix a tea- 
spoon of mustard with a little cold milk, stirring into the mixture with 
salt, a very little cayenne pepper, ground mace and grated nutmeg. The 
seasoning should be to taste. Into this stir the crab meat, adding more 
seasoning and milk if desired. It should be very moist. When cool, 
fill the shells, cover with rather fine crumbs, made from stale but not 
dry bread. Put into a hot oven at meal-time — only long enough to heat 
through and brown the crumbs. 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 



PAN-BROILED OYSTERS 

Drain rather large oysters well. Put a large piece of butter into a 
flat frpng pan. When the butter is very brown, hastily drop in enough 
oysters to lie flat on the bottom. As they brown, turn quickly, brown 
on the other side and remove to a dish, set in the oven, pouring the 
liquor from the pan into a bowl and save in warm place. Another piece 
of butter in the pan, brown and continue as above until all of the oysters 
are cooked. At the last, into the very brown butter sift enough floiu- 
to make a thick sauce, stir, add the butter saved in the bowl and a very 
little of the oyster liquor, if needed. Stir well until smooth, and 
season. Turn the oysters into this sauce and pour over well-toasted 
slices of bread. The sauce should be very brown (but not burnt) 
and thick, as a liquor oozing from the oysters tends to thin the sauce 
somewhat. 

This is an original recipe. 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



51 



BROWNED OYSTERS 



2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 



Vi pint oyster liquor 
Salt and pepper 



Cook together in fr5dng pan the butter and flour until brown; pour 
upon this the oyster Hquor and stir imtil smooth and creamy; season to 
taste with salt and pepper, drop in oysters and cook until they are plump. 
A few drops of caramel will make sauce a rich brown. Serve on toast 
very hot. Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 



THIBAULT OYSTERS 



100 oysters 
Vi pound butter 
1/2 teaspoon parsley 
1 tablespoon butter 



V^ tablespoon flour 
4 eggs (yolks) 
Cayenne pepper 
Salt 



Drain the oysters as dry as possible. 

Put yi pound of butter in a saucepan; when it begins to bubble 
throw in yoiu* oysters with very finely chopped parsley, cayenne pepper, 
and salt to taste. Mix 1 tablespoon of butter and ^ tablespoon of flour 
until smooth, and stir into oysters. Add yolks of eggs, well beaten, and 
stir into oysters when almost cooked. The eggs will curdle if cooked 
too long. Serve on hot pieces of toast. This recipe can be cooked in 
chafing dish if desired. 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 



1 pint, or 30 oysters 

2 cups crumbs 
% teaspoon salt 



Cayenne pepper 
2 tablespoons butter 
Vi cup oyster juice 



Wash oysters by pouring cold water over them in a colander, remove 
pieces of shell by slipping each oyster through the fingers. Prepare 
crumbs by melting butter, adding crumbs, salt and pepper, and stir imtil 
crumbs are evenly yellow with butter. Place one-quarter of the crumbs 
on bottom of baking dish; then half the oysters; then the second quarter 
of crumbs and second half of oysters and on top the rest of the crumbs. 
Bake 30 to 40 minutes in one large dish; or 6 shells may be used, in 
which case double the quantity of buttered crumbs. Bake shells 15 
minutes. 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 



52 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OYSTERS A LA THIBAULT 

100 oysters Red pepper 

Vi pound butter 1 tablespoon butter 

Parsley 2 tablespoons flour 

Salt 6 eggs (yolks) 

Brown Y^ pound of butter in a saucepan and throw into it 100 
oysters, well drained, with a little chopped parsley, salt and red pepper. 
When the oysters become quite hot, stir in 1 tablespoon of butter mixed 
with 2 tablespoons of flour. When it has come to a boil, pour over the 
beaten yolks of the eggs and serve. 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



OYSTER SHORT CAKE 

2 cups flour Vi cup butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten with 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 scant cup of milk 

Spread on biscuit tin, bake in hot oven, split and butter. 

Filling 

1 quart oysters Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons butter Celery salt 

1 tablespoon flour 3 tablespoons cream 

Scald the oysters in liquor, remove oysters and keep hot. Strain 
1 cup of broth, mix butter and flour in the boiling liquor, salt, pepper and 
celery salt. Let boil, add cream and the oysters. Fill in short cake and 
serve. 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 



PICKLED OYSTERS 

Strain liquor through a cheesecloth, and put on to boil with 2 tea- 
spoons of salt. When it boils, skim well and strain through a cloth, add 
spice, mace, pepper corns, allspice, and vinegar to taste (no cloves). 
Wash oysters well in cold water, shake and put into the hot vinegar and 
spices. Cook until a little shriveled on edges. For 50 oysters use >^ pint 
of white wine vinegar. 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



53 



OYSTER LOAF 



1 milk loaf of bread 
1 quart oysters 
1 pint sweet cream 



Vi pound butter 

1 tablespoon flour, wet with a little milk 

Pepper and salt 



Cut off the top crust and scoop out all the soft bread, crumbing it 
and leaving only a bread shell to be filled. Brown the crumbs in the 
butter, and set aside. Throw the oysters into fresh water, removing bits 
of shell. Place them, on the stove without any liquor, and allow them 
to get very hot. Heat the cream, season with pepper and salt, and 
thicken with the floiu: stirred smooth with the milk. Put a layer of crumbs 
in the bottom of bread crust, next a layer of oysters, seasoning them, 
and next a layer of cream. Another layer of crumbs, oysters, cream, and 
lastly crumbs, and yotu* loaf is ready for the oven, where it must bake 
for 20 minutes before serving, Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 

CLAM ROAST 

Open clams and in each half shell place thin piece of bacon about 
an inch square. Season with chopped parsley, ca^'-enne, and a drop of 
lemon and onion juice to each clam. Roast in hot oven. 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 



DEVILED CLAMS 



2 tablespoons (heaping) flour 
Chopped parsley, cayenne and black 
pepper to taste 



40 medium-sized clams 

1 cup cream 

3 tablespoons butter 

Drain the clams well, chop very fine; make a sauce of the cream, 
butter and flour. Mix all together, cover well with bread crumbs and 
bake in the oven. Mrs. H. G. Michener 



DEVILED CLAMS 



2 eggs (yolks) 

2 teaspoons mixed mustard 

Little salt and black and red pepper 



15 clams 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon (large) dried bread crumbs 

Wash the clams, drain dry and chop fine. Melt the butter and stir 
in the bread crumbs, then the clams; let them boil up, add the seasoning, 
and last of all, the eggs. Give one boil and take from the fire. Fill the 
shells, let them cool, and dip in egg and crumbs and fry as oysters. 

Mrs. Joshua Ash Pearson 



ileatsi 

The sauce to meat is ceremony; meeting were bare without it. — Macbeth. 



(55) 



CHICKEN A LA KING 

Someone has said that if you can make a better mouse-trap than any 
one else the world will wear a path to your door. If you can not make 
a better mouse-trap, perhaps you can concoct a more appetizmg dish 
than any one else. Experience has shown that new menu dehcacies are 
even more appreciated than are mouse-traps, and that they make your 
neighbors flock in and tread a beaten path over your front lawn 
iust as quickly. That is what Bill King, of Philadelphia, learned 
twenty years ago, when "Chicken k la King" first appeared on a hotel 

If Macadam is immortalized by a type of roadway, and Lord 
Raglan by a garment, and Sir Robert Peel by the "Bobbies" and 
"Peelers," why should not WilHam King, of Philadelphia, go 
down to fame upon the palatable, savory concoction of fowl and 
mushrooms, truffles, and peppers smothered in cream that wears his 

Twenty years ago a patron of the old Bellevue Hotel dining room, 
a man who considered eating no frivolous matter, sat down at a table 
one day and scowled at the waiter. He scowled because he had 
exhausted the entire range of cookery, and at the moment he was 
convinced that not one of the thousand dishes with which he was 
familiar would appeal to him. He said as much to the waiter. The 
man bowed, requested fifteen minutes' grace, and disappeared into the 

kitchen. . 

He returned with the following, smoking hot, m a chafing dish: 
Small cubes cut from the white meat of chicken, fresh mushrooms, truflles, 
red and green peppers; cooked in cream. 

When the bon-vivant had eaten the last morsel he sighed. He knew 
that he had done his part in assisting at the birth of a new gift from the 

gods. 

"Who made this?" he demanded. 

"BiU King," was the response. "He works in the kitchen." 

The dish was " Chicken a la King." 

Thus was it bom. In the twenty years that have followed that day, 
its fame has spread from sea to sea, until it is known wherever men eat 

cooked food. _, ,_ , ^^ .^.c 

—From Literary Digest, March 27, 1915 

(57) 



58 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CfflCKEN A LA KING 

1 five-pound chicken 2 tablespoons flour 

2 green peppers V^ pint fresh cream 

Vz pound mushrooms 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Boil chicken until tender. Cut meat into pieces. Boil broth down to 
1 quart. Boil peppers and mushrooms 10 minutes in chicken broth. 
Thicken broth with flour and add fresh cream, chopped parsley. Serve 
hot in chafing dish. 

Mrs. John D. McIlhenny 



STUFFING FOR CfflCKEN 

1 large tablespoon butter 1 small loaf bread, crumbed rather 

1 onion, chopped fine coarse 

Salt, pepper and sweet marjoram 

Season the bread crumbs to taste with salt, pepper and sweet 
marjoram. Fry the onion slightly in the butter, add the seasoned crumbs 
and stir till the butter is all absorbed. 

Mrs. William A. Flanigen 



CfflCKEN CROQUETTES 

1 pint cold chicken meat 1 teaspoon salt 

V2 phit cream 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 tablespoon butter A dash of cayenne pepper 

2 tablespoons flour Bread crumbs 
1/2 tablespoon parsl'^sy 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon onion juice 2 tablespoons milk 

To each pint of cold chicken meat, chopped finely (not ground), 
add cream, butter, floiu*, parsley, onion juice, salt, nutmeg and cayenne 
pepper. Put the cream on the fire in a double boiler and heat; rub the 
butter and flour together and add to the cream; cook until smooth and 
thick. Add the seasoning to the meat, mix with the sauce and turn out 
to cool. When cold make into croquettes. Dip in flour first to hold 
together, and then in the beaten eggs, to which has been added 2 table- 
spoons of milk. Roll in bread crumbs and fry in smoking fat. 

Sweetbreads and oyster croquettes are made in the same way. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



59 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 
1 five-pound chicken, boiled 
To each pint of meat, chopped — 

1/2 pint milk (or cream) 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon butter - l tablespoon onion juice 

2 tablespoons flour Salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste 

Put milk on to boil, rub butter and flour together, and stir into the 
boiling milk for 5 minutes; add seasoning, then meat, and stir until well 
heated. Let cool, shape into croquettes and fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Chicken, turkey or sweetbreads 1 spoon butter 

Salt, pepper, parsley 1 spoon flour 

A Uttle nutmeg 1 tumbler cream 

Very Uttle onion 3 eggs (yolks) 

Cracker crumbs 

Mince chicken or turkey as fine as possible, also sweetbreads. Season 
with salt and pepper, parsley, a little nutmeg, and a very, very little onion. 
Mix the butter, flour, and cream; boil and stir into the mince. When 
cold, make into forms, dip into yolks of eggs and cracker crumbs, and fry. 

One chicken and 2 sweetbreads make 1 dozen croquettes. 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 

BRUNSWICK STEW 
2 chickens (or rabbit) 1 Pod red pepper 



1 onion 



Salt 



Stew slowly in 3 quarts cold water until the chicken is rather tender; 

then add — 

1 quart tomatoes, peeled and mashed 1 pint Uma beans 

through a colander 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 quart white potatoes, peeled and cut 6 ears com 

1 tablespoon butter 

About half an hour before it is done, add the com— the grain split 

and cut off the cobs. 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 



60 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

1 chicken 1 tablespoon gelatin 

1 lemon 2 eggs (hard boiled) 

Mace, salt, pepper Lettuce 

Boil an old chicken, about 3^ pounds, until it is tender. Allow it 
to stand in a cold place for at least 24 hours, after which pick all the meat 
from the bones and cut into small pieces about the size that would be 
used in chicken salad, and poiu- the juice of the lemon over it; add a 
little mace and salt and pepper to taste. 

Into lyi cups of the chicken stock place the bones of the legs and 
wings (thin bones only) ; let this come to a boil, then add gelatin. After 
the gelatin is thoroughly dissolved strain the liquid into a cold mould that 
has been dressed with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and turn into this the 
picked chicken and over the chicken the balance of the chicken stock. 
Stand away for several hours in a cold place. In serving, turn mould out 
on platter covered with lettuce leaves with either French dressing or 
mayonnaise. 

The above will serve about 8 average portions. 

Mrs. Henry Delaplaine 



CHICKEN MOUSSE 

2 chickens 1 pint rich cream 

2 tablespoons gelatin Salt and pepper 

V2 cup milk Lemon juice 

Remove the breasts of the cold chickens which have been either baked 
or stewed. Run them through the meat chopper, using the finest cutter. 
Put gelatin in milk, and dissolve by setting the cup in a pan of boiling 
water. Season a pint of the ground chicken meat with salt, pepper and 
some lemon juice. Mix it thoroughly with dissolved gelatin. Have in 
readiness a pint of rich cream (XX) which has been whipped very 
stiff, and fold it into the mixture. Place in a wet loaf pan or fancy mould, 
and chill thoroughly until the gelatin has hardened. When ready to use, 
turn out on a platter and serve with a good mayonnaise. If this is made 
carefully and permitted to stand long enough to become thoroughly stiff, 
the loaf may be sliced. A nice dish for Sunday supper. 

This recipe for Chicken Mousse is one of our stand-bys and I can 
highly recommend it. 

Miss Mariana J. Steel 



BOOK OF RECIPES 61 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

Boil chicken until thoroughly done. Chop fine, season very highly, 
chop and add parsley; have a couple of boiled eggs in a moiild, pack 
chicken in tightly, add a teacup of chicken juice, in which has been soaked 
a tablespoon of gelatin. Set to cool. It will turn out and make a delicious 
dish for luncheon or tea. 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 

BEEF A LA MODE 

7 or 8 pounds beef Va cup sliced carrots 

2 tablespoons drippings V2 cup sliced turnips 

1/2 cup sliced onion Sprig of parsley 

Have meat larded by butcher. Put drippings in large pot. When 
hot put in meat and brown on all sides by turning. This will take about 
one-half hour. Then dredge with flour and brown. After flour has 
browned place small plate iinder meat to prevent its burning, and pour 
on boiling water to half cover meat; add the onions, carrots, turnips and 
parsley. Cover pot tightly with lid so meat may cook in steam and 
simmer for 4 or 5 hours. Add more boiling water if necessary. When 
done place on hot dish and pour vegetables over and arovmd it. Make 
a gravy of 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon of flour browned, then 
add 1 cup of liquid strained from pot. Season with salt and pepper. 
Pour over meat, or serve separately. 

Miss Amelia R. Coale 

WAKEFIELD STEAK 

Piece of fillet steak cut \yi inches thick. An hour before cooking, 
place in the following mixture — turning it two or three times: 

4 teaspoons mushroom ketchup V^ teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons brown sugar Vi teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 4 tablespoons hot cider vinegar 

After being in above mixture 1 hour, remove, drain and dredge with 
flour, and cook before the fire or in a skillet with 2 ounces of hot butter, 
for 15 or 20 minutes, turning frequently. Then dish, drain fat from pan, 
and pour into the pan the mixture the steak had been in ; heat thoroughly, 
pour roimd the steak, and serve with potato chips. 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 



62 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BONED TURKEY 

(Fine — but very troublesome !) 

Lay the turkey, breast down, on a cloth, and with a sharp-pointed 
knife bone as follows: Pass point of knife through the skin at neck and 
cut open straight down the back bone — then proceed to clear the flesh 
from the bones with knife and fingers until you come to breast bone, 
disjointing wings and legs as you proceed; then very carefully detach 
the breast bone from the flesh; be careful not to cut or tear the skin. 
When this is done you may remove the carcass with interior of turkey; 
after taking out the carcass, then holding the foot tightly, scrape the bone 
free from flesh of the legs to below the first joint, then cut the flesh from 
around the knuckles and pull the foot and the remainder of bone and sinews 
will come out together; then cut off the wings at first pinion, and the 
remaining bone is easily scraped away. 

Have ready for stuffing: 2 pounds forcemeat, long thin strips of 
ham, veal and bacon. Put in the ttu-key, first a layer of forcemeat, 
1 inch thick, then layer of veal, bacon, and strips of slightly cooked ham, 
adding salt, pepper, and a little chopped onion. Proceed with these 
alternate layers until the bird is well filled, then pull over the flaps and 
sew up tightly, tie in a napkin, boil about 3 hours until tender, then brown 
in oven. A better stuffing than the above is: the forcemeat, ham, and 
instead of veal, the meat of a pair of prairie hens, adding a few truffles. 

I always serve this hot. If it is to be served cold, it must be pressed 
by weight before being taken out of the napkin. 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 

A SPANISH STEW 

11/2 pounds beef 1 onion (small) 

1/2 pint stewed tomatoes Yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg 

1 teaspoon butter Vi teaspoon curry powder 

Take the beef from the upper end of the sirloin. Cover it with boil- 
ing water. Cook slowly until done. When cool, cut into small pieces. 
Save the liquor and strain it. Take the stewed tomatoes, highly seasoned, 
and add a little sugar. Put into a heated saucepan a teaspoon of 
butter, then the tomatoes and the beef. Pour the liquor over them. 
Add the onion, cut fine. Salt and pepper to taste. Cover it up and let 
it simmer for half an hour. Mashing the yolk of the egg, stir into it 
curry powder, and mix with the stew just before serving. 

My old family recipe. Miss Agnes Repplier 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



63 



SAVORY MEAT 

11/2 pounds raw, lean beef i tablespoon salt (level) 

IV2 pounds raw, lean veal 1 tablespoon pepper (level) 

3 eggs 4 tablespoons cream 

6 soda crackers, rolled fine Piece of butter the size of a walnut 

Put meat through the grinder. Mix thoroughly, press into shape 
and bake 1^ hours. 

Mrs. Alfred Percival Smith 



SWEDISH HAMBURG STEAK 

1 pound Hamburg steak 2 eggs 

1 cup dry bread crumbs Celery salt 

1 cup milk Onion salt 

V2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Soak crumbs in milk, beat eggs light and add to same; season meat 
with onion, salt and celery salt, and Worcestershire sauce. Mix all 
together, shage into loaf, add water to pan, and baste often and bake 
till tender. 

Mrs. W. F. Taft 

HASH 

3 cups cooked meat (lamb or beef, V2 cup melted butter 

chopped) y2. teaspoon celery salt 

1 cup boiled rice V^ teaspoon pepper 

1 cup cream Thyme, sweet marjoram, etc., to taste 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Put in buttered baking dish and cover with buttered crumbs. 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 



BREADED LAMB CHOPS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Wipe the chops very carefully to remove bits of bone that may be 
present. Season with pepper and salt, and dip in soft bread crumbs 
that have been sifted, then in an egg which has been mixed with 2 table- 
spoons of milk, and then in bread crumbs again. Place on a buttered 
baking sheet. Bake from 15 to 20 minutes. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Limch Room 



64 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BOUDINS 

V^ pint meat 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon (level) salt Vz cup soft bread crumbs 

A dash of pepper Vi cup stock or hot water 

2 eggs (well beaten) 

These can be quickly made from any bits of left-over steak, chicken 
or roast. For 6 moulds, only yi pint of meat is required. Chop the meat 
fine and season with salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Put bread crumbs 
in a saucepan, add stock or hot water and cook for 2 minutes. Add the 
meat; when hot, take from fire and add eggs. (A grating of nutmeg 
improves the taste.) Fill small greased custard cups two-thirds full with 
the mixture, stand them in a shallow pan of hot water and bake for about 
20 minutes in a hot oven. Fill the bottom of a platter with cream sauce, 
turn the boudins out and arrange them neatly in it. Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 



FRIED VEAL 

For a pound of veal use 1 egg beaten up with a little water. Dip 
the veal in the egg, then in cracker crumbs and fry imtil brown. 

Polu- off any siu*plus fat there may be, and add about 1>2 cups of 
water. Cover and move to the back of the stove, where it shoiild steam 
for 1 hour. This makes the veal very tender. 

Mrs. Alfred Percival Smith 



BAKED SLICE OF HAM 

Cut ham about 1>^ or 2 inches thick. Trim off all fat, and grind it. 
Mix the ground fat with 1 cup brown sugar; spread this on the slice of 
ham, put it in a covered baking dish with 1 cup of water, and bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 



BAKED SLICE OF HAM 

Soak a slice of ham in cold water 20 minutes. Make a paste of 3 
tablespoons of brown sugar and 1 of mustard. Spread over ham. Put 
in a pan and cover with milk and bake in the oven. 

Miss Annie Heacock 



BOOK OF RECIPES 65 

BAKED HAM 

Select a fine ham (not shoulder) weighing about ten pounds. Scrub 
thoroughly and soak over night in cold water. Put on to boil in clear 
cold water till tender, about 3 hours or more; test with fork. It im- 
proves the flavor to boil with it a small piece of onion, a bay leaf and 
sprig of parsley. When done let it stand in the water in which it was 
boiled till cool, then remove the skin. Score the fat into squares and 
stick a clove in each one. Cover with brown sugar and bake until well- 
browned, not quite an hour. Baste three or four times, adding a little 
lemon juice to the basting. Put a paper friU around the bone and serve 
hot surrounded with lettuce or celery leaves. Garnish with slices of 
pimento-stufEed olives. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

A DIGESTIBLE WAY OF PREPARING VEAL 

One povind veal cutlet, cut very thin 

Cut into 4 even-sized pieces. 

Dressing 
1 cup stale bread crumbs 1 tablespoon butter 

y^ teaspoon sage 1 small onion, chopped or grotmd 

Vi teaspoon thyme Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix the above dressing together, put in center of each piece; roll 
meat over dressing and fasten with wood toothpicks or tie with cord, 
salt each piece of meat and roll in flour. Put 2 heaping tablespoons 
of butter or its substitute into a deep pot, let it brown, put in meat, 
turn it from time to time until rich brown all over, then cover with 
water that is boiling, place lid on pot and allow the contents to 
only simmer very gently 1 hour or longer if meat is not perfectly 
tender. Take meat out, make thickened gravy by adding 2 heaping 
tablespoons of flour stirred smooth in cold water. 

Miss Gertrude A. Barrett 

SAUSAGE ROLL 

Take about 2 pounds sausage meat, cover with soda biscuit dough 
about ^ inch thick; stand on a rack in a roasting pan and bake in the 
oven, basting it constantly, until the crust is very brown and the sausage 
well cooked. Mrs. Henry P. Brown 



66 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MEXICAN TONGUE 

1 cup white wine vinegar 1 cup cut raisins 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon cut in slices 

2 dozen cloves 

Simmer tongue 4 hours; skin and leave in juice imtil cold. Bake in 
sauce until sauce thickens. 

Mrs. Samuel Bispham Bowen 

MEXICAN HAM 

2 cups white wine vinegar 2 cups seeded raisins 

2 cups sugar 2 lemons cut in thin slices 

4 dozen cloves 

Simmer ham 4 hours, leave in juice until cold. Bake in slow oven 
about ^/i hour, basting until sauce thickens. Bake in porcelain dish. 
Serve with sauce poured over ham. 

This and the Mexican Tongue recipe have been used in my family 
repeatedly, and are considered very fine. They can be used cold with 
sauce heated, which is delicious. 

Mrs. Samuel Bispham Bowen 

SAUSAGE 

For every ten pounds of meat (half fat and half lean) grind and take — 

Vi pound salt 1 ounce (nearly) of pepper 

Vi ounce sage 

Mix thoroughly and put in cheesecloth bags to keep until ready to 
use. 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 

HOME-MADE COUNTRY SAUSAGE 

(Keep in cold place) 

10 poimds very fat tender pork Vi ounce red pepper 

2 ounces black pepper 1 Vz ounces sage 

2 ounces salt 

Cut meat in pieces and mix with seasoning; then put all through 
meat chopper. You can make one-half or one-quarter quantity if desired. 

Mrs. Henry C. McIlvaine 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



67 



FRESH TONGUE 

Wash a fresh tongue, cover with boiling water and a heaping teaspoon 
of salt. Simmer slowly for lyi hours; then take out, remove the skin, 
trim off anything ragged, roll up and tie with a strip of white cloth and 
set aside while preparing vegetables. 

Brown in a pan — 



2 tablespoons (heaping) butter 

1 carrot (small) 

2 onions (medium size) 
1 potato 

1 turnip (small) 



1 bay leaf 

1 stalk celery 

2 sprigs parsley 

(Carrot, onions, potato and turnip to be 
sliced thin) 



Stir these over fire until they look glossy ; then take a quart of beef 
stock — or, if not handy — one quart of the water the tongue was boiled 
in. Put the tongue in with broth and vegetables, cover and bake, occa- 
sionally turning the tongue and stirring up the vegetables. At the end 
of 2 hours take out, remove tongue and put on upper grate to brown. 
Rub vegetables and broth through sieve into saucepan, put on stove and 
boil rapidly till reduced to a pint: 

Blend 2 tablespoons of flour and 1 cup of tomato juice, add a pinch 
of salt, pepper and a dessertspoon of Worcestershire sauce; stir into the 
broth and boil up sharply; remove tongue to platter, pour the thick brown 
sauce over it, sprinkle with parsley and serve. 

Countess of Santa Eulalia 



A QUICK KIDNEY STEW 



1 tablespoon butter or its substitute 
1 medium-sized onion 



2 teaspoons white flour 
4 or 6 lamb kidneys 



Peel off outside thin skin from kidneys, cut meat from the inside 
membrane in small pieces. Put butter or substitute in pan over fire to 
brown, put in this onion cut fine or groimd, stir in floiu: (dry) until it 
becomes browned, do not stop stirring lest the flotu" become full of liunps; 
when brown add gradually, continuing to stir, boiling water until a nice 
thickened gravy is made. About 2 cups of water more may be added if 
gravy seems too thick. Now put in kidneys that have been cut up, 
let them simmer from 8 to 10 minutes; never allow them to boil hard or 
longer, as they will become hardened and will then need an hour to cook. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Miss Gertrude A. Barrett 



68 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

GALANTINE 

1 pound boiled or raw ham Salt and pepper to taste 

1 pound raw beef off round 1 onion (small) 

2 cups bread crumbs Piece of carrot 
2 eggs, beaten together A few cloves 

Put ham and beef through meat chopper. Add bread crumbs, eggs, 
and seasoning. Mix all together, form into a roll about 10 inches long. 
Have a cloth about size of a napkin, and roll the Galantine into it, tying 
firmly at each end. Boil for 2 hours in pot of water into which has been 
put a small onion, piece of carrot, and a few cloves. When cold, glace 
and serve cold. 

Glace 

V2 cup water Vz teaspoon gelatine 

14 teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

Heat all together, and while hot put on roll with small brush. 

A tested family recipe. Mrs. E. B. Waples 

STEWED KIDNEY 

Soak veal kidneys 4 hours in cold water with a large spoonful of salt. 
Then chip off in thin pieces, rejecting every bit of the white tissue. Melt 
a tablespoon of butter in a frying pan, and cook the kidney in it until it 
loses the red look (a very few minutes will do it), then add pepper, salt 
and flour, and water or stock. Let it boil up, and serve. If cooked too 
long it will be tough and hard. Mrs. William A. Flanigen 

STEWED KIDNEY 

2 kidneys Butter the size of an egg 

1 teaspoon flour 

Cut two kidneys into small dice, taking out all gristle, put into col- 
ander, wash it once with cold water, drain and flour while in the 
colander. 

Put a piece of butter into the pan in which you will cook the kidney, 
add a little flour and make it very brown. Put the kidney in, stir it all 
up, then add boiling water to entirely cover the kidney. Let it boil up 
once, then put it on the back of the range, cover tightly and boil slowly 
4 hours by the clock. Just before taking off, cream butter and flour, 
and put in it. Let it come to a boil once and take off. Season with 
salt and pepper. Mrs. J. Nicholas Mitchell 



BOOK OF RECIPES 69 

HAM AND CURRANT JELLY 

(Very good for Sunday night supper) 

V2 glass currant jelly 1 tablespoon (heaping) butter 

1 teaspoon mustard Sherry wine 

Put into a chafing dish the currant jelly, mustard and butter. When 
it is melted and thoroughly mixed, add as much sherry as you Hke — more 
or less according to taste. Just before serving, put in your ham, which 
has been first sliced very thin and then shredded. Cook just long enough 
for the ham to get hot. 

I use about yi cup of sherry and yi potmd of ham to this amotmt 
of sauce. 

This is one of my housekeeper's recipes. She makes everything she 
attempts most delicious ! When I say delicious, I mean the quality which 
a Philadelphian would consider delicious ! 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill , 

! 

TO ROAST BEEF HEART WITH SAGE AND ONIONS ' 

1 beef heart 3 ounces bread crumbs 

2 oimces onion (boiled and shredded) 1 ounce sage 

Soak, clean and trim a heart; make a stuffing of the onion, sage, and 
crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and fill the cavities from which 
you have cut out the lobes; sew it up and roast before the fire for 4 
hours, basting it much. It must be served with good brown gravy and 
apple sauce. Well worth trying. Mrs. Theron I. Crane 

CALF'S LIVER IN A CHAFING DISH 

Wash it; cover it with boiling water and let it simmer for 3 or 5 
minutes. Stand away until ready to cook it in the chafing dish. Cut 
it up into small pieces and season with salt and pepper. Put a little butter 
in the chafing dish and then the liver. Add a teaspoon of hot water and 
cook about 5 or 6 minutes. Then add a little cream or rich milk; let it 
boil 2 or 3 minutes and serve. 

The yolk of an egg beaten up and added just as you take from the 
fire makes it particvilarly nice, but be sure not to cook it after the egg 
goes in more than to get it stirred through well. 

If you use wine, two tablespoons of sherry added as you take it from 
the fire improves it. Miss Virginia Hartshorne 



70 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BAKED SWEETBREAD 

Wash well in cold water, leaving the sweetbread whole, then drop 
into boiling water and boil until tender. Put in cold water to harden, 
pull out the strings and bits not good to eat, divide the sweetbread as 
little as possible. A piece of veal boiled with the sweetbread improves 
it and makes it go further. Save the water the sweetbread is boiled in 
for the dressing. 

Put the sweetbread into a platter or small baking dish after dipping 
in egg and fine bread crumbs and seasoning with pepper and salt. 
Put bits of butter on top and bake to a light brown; pour over it 
the dressing, which must be very hot. Serve in the dish in which it is 
baked. 

Dressing for Baked Sweetbreads 

Use the water in which the sweetbreads were boiled, add a piece of 
lemon peel and boil down to a small bulk, thicken with flour (or corn- 
starch) and butter and flavor with lemon. Make it quite tart — about 
half a lemon to a pair of sweetbreads. 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 



CALF'S HEAD (TERRAPIN STYLE) 

1 calf's head 2 ounces butter 
3^ pound calf's liver I teacup wine 

2 hard-boiled eggs (yolks) V2 teaspoon ground cloves 
V^ teaspoon flour Salt and cayenne pepper 

Get a calf's head and Ya, pound calf's liver. Wash the head and 
take out the brains, then put the head in a pot with just enough cold 
water to cover it. Let boil till tender (1>< hours is generally long enough) ; 
it must be tender enough for the meat to come easily off the bones. Cut 
the meat very fine, skin the tongue and cut it and the liver up. Put all 
back in the same water and boil ^ of an hour, having first seasoned to 
taste with a little salt, cayenne pepper and yi teaspoon of ground 
cloves. Then mash the yolks of eggs fine, add flour and butter; 
mix into a smooth paste and put in with the meat and let it continue 
boiling till it gets quite thick. Just before dishing, stir in a teacup of 

wine. 

The Misses Esherick 



BOOK OF RECIPES 71 

MOCK TERRAPIN— EXCELLENT 

1 calf's head 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped up 

Vz cup soup stock 1 cup cream 

3 tablespoons butter Sherry wine 

1 tablespoon flour Red pepper 

1 cup milk Salt 

Cut one quart of the meat in small pieces. Put the meat and stock 
into a kettle and let simmer, then add eggs. Rub the butter and flour 
together and stir into the milk; let them come to a boil, then add the 
meat. Season with red pepper and salt, add just before taking from the 
fire a cup of cream. When ready to serve add sherry wine to taste. 

Of course you boil the calf's head till it is done before beginning to 
use it. Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 

TO STEW A DUCK WITH CHESTNUTS 

Bone the duck and fill it with a forcemeat of 2 parts lean roast veal, 
yi as much finely shredded beef suet, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, some 
mushrooms, young green onions and parsley to fill up, seasoned well with 
pepper and salt, and well moistened with cream. Lay it in a stewpan 
with a whole onion and a bunch of herbs and cover with bouillon or gravy; 
stew gently for an hour. In the meantime make a ragout of 30 or 40 
roasted chestnuts, seasoned only with a teaspoon of salt, and stewed to 
a ptilp in ^ pint of white stock and 2 glasses of white wine. Dish the 
duck and cover with the chestnuts in the sauce. 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 

BAKED SWEETBREADS 

4 pairs sweetbreads V^ teaspoon (even) black pepper 

1 teaspoon (heaping) onion 2 teaspoons (even) minced parsley 

Vi teaspoon (even) salt 1 cup of stock 

Whiten and parboil 4 pairs of sweetbreads and arrange them in a 
baking pan so as not to touch each other. Mix together with a cupful 
of stock, the onion (chopped very fine), salt, pepper and parsley. Pour 
this evenly over the sweetbreads and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 
They must be watched to see that they do not bum suddenly. Serve 
very hot on a platter surrounded by peas. Cook them just before they 
are to be served as they should not be allowed to stand long. 

This recipe has long been used in my mother's and my own family, 
and always meets with favor. Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 



72 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CANVAS BACK DUCK 

Pick, draw and singe like a chicken. Wipe thoroughly inside and 
out with a damp cloth (avoid washing or soaking, as it depreciates flavor) . 
Cut an onion in half and with bleeding side of one half rub the inside 
thoroughly and yet lightly; with the other half rub the outside of duck 
all over lightly. Truss the wings and legs close to the body. Do not 
stuff the duck, but place a piece of butter the size of a walnut in each with 
three cranberries. Baste well with melted butter and a little flour to brown. 
Place in a baking pan, add 1 teaspoon of salt and % cup of boiling water 
to the pan and a small piece of butter. Put into a very hot oven and 
bake for 18 to 20 minutes, or, if wanted better done, 25 minutes, watch- 
ing carefully the progress of the baking and basting well with its own 
gravy 4 or 5 minutes. 

The savory odor and tenderness of the duck are lessened if cooked 
longer than 20 minutes by the over-doing of the juices. 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 

SWEETBREADS 

Put them in water for 1 hour. Boil in acid water 20 minutes (using 
a few drops of lemon or vinegar). Plunge in cold water, remove all fat, 
loose skin, etc. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Put in baking dish, 
brush with melted butter, allowing 2 tablespoons to each sweetbread. 
Cover with thin slices of bacon and bake in hot oven 25 minutes, the 
last 5 without the bacon. Miss Caroline C. Hoffman 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

(Without wine) 

Cook calf's liver as usual, until done. Cut into rather small pieces. 
Wipe the pan well and put into it a large lump of butter — the size of an 
Qgg, or more, for 1 pound. In a bowl, mix the meat with 2 hard-boiled 
eggs cut into very small pieces or chopped, ^ teaspoon of dry mustard, 
salt and a very little cayenne pepper. It should be pretty heavily seasoned. 
Stir this into the butter, dust thickly with flour and brown. Pour about 
1 cup boiling water over the meat, stirring quickly and well. 

Cold roast veal, cut into small pieces, may be used in the same way, 
but in this case the mustard should be mixed with a little vinegar and 
the gravy should not be allowed to brown. 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 



BOOK OF RECIPES 73 

TO SERVE WITH MEAT AND FISH 

Apple sauce with roast pork. 

Mint sauce with roast lamb. 

Oyster and chestnut dressing with roast turkey. 

Walnut catsup with venison. 

Currant jelly with roast goose. 

Celery sauce with quail. 

Tart grape jelly with canvas back duck. 

Orange salad with roast chicken. 

Cream gravy and strawberry preserves with fried chicken. 

Celery and onion dressing with roast duck. 

Olives stuffed with cream cheese with cold tongue. 

Olives stuffed with peppers with fish balls. 

Parmesan cheese with beef and veal sausage. 

Tomato catsup with pork sausage. 

Horseradish and fried onions with liver. 

Apple sauce with pork croquettes. 

Mayonnaise with boiled lobster. 

French dressing with sardines. 

White sauce, hard-boiled eggs and parsley with boiled salmon. 

Sauce piquante with boiled shad. 

Melted butter sauce with mackerel. 

Cream sauce with sweetbreads. 

Maitre d 'hotel sauce with steamed oysters. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 



Vegetables! 

How green you are and fresh in this old world. — King John. 



(75) 



SWEET POTATOES 

Sweet potatoes make delicious "chips" and "shoestrings." They 
should be sliced thin, or cut in slender strips, just as is done with white 
potatoes for a similar use, dropped in cold water for a few minutes, and 
fried in deep fat. A slight sprinkling of salt while they are warm improves 
them. 

Mrs. Samuel Semple, 
President, State Federation of Pennsylvania Women 

POTATO FRITTERS 

Wash and peel 4 medium-sized white potatoes; grate the potatoes on 
a coarse grater, drain off the dark potato water; salt, add the yolks of 
two eggs, and beat. If the mass seems stiff, add a little cream. Beat 
the whites of the eggs stiff and fold into the potatoes. Place equal por- 
tions of lard and butter in a skillet, when hot, drop the mixture by the 
spoonful into the skillet and fry until brown, thei. turn. 

In hot weather these fritters quite take the place of meat. 

Mrs. Lucretia L. Blankenburg 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Slice the potatoes rather thin, put a layer in a greased pudding basin 
sprinkle with salt and butter, and a little pepper; continue until dish is 
full, having butter and seasoning on top, put on about ^ cup of cream, 
and sprinkle bread crumbs on top. Takes about yi hoiu- to bake in a 
good oven. 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 

POTATO PUFF 

2 cups cold mashed potatoes 1 tablespoon melted butter 

Beat to a cream. 

2 eggs, whipped light 1 cup milk 

Salt to taste 

Beat all well, pour into a greased baking dish, and bake quickly 
to a light brown. 

Mrs. John Gibson 
(77) 



78 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Cut potatoes in dice, make a good rich white sauce, and stir them 
into it; turn in baking dish and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Grated 
cheese on top improves it for some. 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 

POTATO AU GRATIN 

(University Club Recipe) 

Plain boiled potatoes chopped very small, mixed with a thick cream 
sauce, seasoned to taste with salt and pepper. Put in shallow dish, sift 
grated cheese thickly on top and bake till a golden brown. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

GREEN CORN AU GRATIN WITH SWEET RED PEPPERS 

Cut corn from cob, add butter and cream, and mild green peppers 
minced after removing inside and seeds. Grate cheese on top and bake 
in shallow baking dish. 

Recipe from chef at Touraine Hotel, Boston. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

CANNED CORN 

8 cups com 1 cup granulated sugar 

1 cup salt A little water 

Cut corn oflE the cob, measure and put in the ingredients. Cook a 
few minutes until the milk sets. Put in cans hot. When ready to use, 
pour off brine, cover with fresh water, let stand over night, and put fresh 
water on again until ready for use. Fine. 

This keeps beautifully. I have it now two years old. 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 

CORN FRITTERS 

Score 1 dozen ears of well ripened com, then scrape all from cob; 
add cream or milk, salt, flour to make batter; lastly, 3 eggs beaten very 
light, whites separately — and put in last. Fry in hot fat. Some use 
baking povv-der and less eggs. 

Mrs. Isaac H. Clothier 



BOOK OF RECIPES 79 

CORN FRITTERS 

6 ears com 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten A little sugar 

1 tablespoon flour Salt to taste 

Boil the com 5 minutes, grate and mix with eggs, flour, baking powder, 
a little sugar and salt to taste. Fry and serve very hot. 

Miss Clara Comegys 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS 

12 ears corn (grated and cobs scraped) Salt 

6 eggs, beaten separately Pepper 

Mix the yolks of the eggs, pepper and salt with the grated corn; 
mix and then add the very stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake on a 
buttered griddle, like griddle cakes. Do not pile one on top of another, 
but spread out singly on platter. Eat immediately after cooking, as they 
fall flat if left too long before serving. No flour used. 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 

CORN PUDDING 

12 ears com, grated Butter the size of a walnut 

1 cup milk A little sugar 

2 eggs Salt and pepper 

Break the eggs in the com, and beat; then add the seasoning and 
melted butter; lastly pour in milk. Bake 45 minutes. Not a very quick 
oven; about the same as for bread. 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 

TOMATO A LA CREOLE 

1 full quart ripe tomatoes 1 white onion 

1 scant pint green okra 1 sprig parsley 

2 sweet green peppers Salt, paprika and black pepper to taste 

1 generous tablespoon butter 

Chop tomatoes, after peeling. Cut up okra. Remove seeds from 
peppers and run them, together with onion and parsley, through meat 
grinder. Place in stew pan, season to taste, and cook very slowly, from 
6 to 8 hours. Before serving, add the butter. Care must be taken to 
prevent scorching. Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 



80 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CELERY— SIENA STYLE 

1 quart celery 1 tablespoon butter 

2 eggs (yolks) 1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil 1 quart of celery till tender; drain and chop fine, then add salt 
and pepper to taste, the yolks of eggs, butter and grated cheese. Place 
in a mold lined with wax paper, and sprinkle cheese on top. Set in a 
saucepan of hot water and let it boil half an hour. Pour on dish and 
pour the sauce around it. 

Sauce 

1 cup of broth from beef soup Kidney and liver giblets from chicken, 

Salt and pepper to taste chopped fine 

1 small spoon butter 

If desired, garnish with points of toast spread with a fish paste. 

Miss Sarah C. Sower 



BAKED EGG PLANT 

(An old family recipe from Baltimore) 

1 large or 2 small egg plants % cup grated bfead crumbs 

3 eggs y^ cup flaked rice 

1/3 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk V^ teaspoon pepper 

Wash the egg plant and cut off the stem ends. Boil from 30 to 40 
minutes in salted water, until it can easily be pierced with a broom straw. 
Put in 2 eggs with the egg plant and boil hard (20 minutes). Take from 
the water and drain in a colander, then place on a large platter. Skin 
carefully, cut open and remove the seeds. Take the shells from the eggs, 
mince with a silver fork. Cut the egg plant very fine with a silver knife 
and fork; add the minced egg to the mixture and put in a lai^e shallow 
baking dish; season with salt, pepper and large teaspoon of butter. Add 
milk, rice, and lastly, 1 raw egg well beaten. Sprinkle over the well- 
smoothed mixture the bread crumbs and dot with bits of butter. Bake 
yi hour in rather quick oven. 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 



BOOK O F RECIPES 81 

SPINACH PUDDING 

1 cup cooked spinach, chopped very fine 1 cup bread crumbs 

1 pint milk 

Put all together on stove and cook slowly 15 minutes. Add — 
1/2 teaspoon salt Very little grated nutmeg 

A Uttle black pepper 2 eggs (yolks) 

Beat all ingredients together, and let it cool and set a couple of hours. 
Just before putting into oven, beat up whites of two eggs very light, and 
add gently. Bake in baking dish 15 minutes in moderate oven, putting 
baking dish in another pan of hot water. 

A recipe tried and tested in my family, and which I do not think 
will be found in the ordinary cook book. 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 



TO BOIL RICE— SOUTHERN STYLE 

Wash 1 cup of rice thoroughly, 4 or 5 times in cold water. Have 
ready a fairly large pot of boiling salted water (at least 2 quarts), to which 
add yi teaspoon of lemon juice, then sprinkle in the rice so gradually 
you will not stop the boiling. When you have it all in, stir with a fork, 
but only stir once, as it makes the rice fall to the bottom of the pot; boil 
rapidly and constantly until soft (about 40 minutes), empty into a col- 
ander, pour over it a quart of boiling water, and drain; then stand in 
oven 10 minutes, to dry, leaving the door open. Serve heaped loosely 

in a heated dish without a cover. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 



RICE OMELET 

1 cup boiled rice, mashed 1 tablespoon flour 

2 tablespoons milk A pinch of salt 

4 eggs (beaten separately) 

Add to the rice the milk, flour and pinch of salt. Add yolks of eggs, 
beaten light. Then add whites, beaten light. Drop in large spoonfuls 
on buttered frying pan. Fold over as is usual with omelets. 

Mrs. Grace S. Williams, 
President, Bristol Travel Club, Bristol, Pa. 

6 



82 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BEAN LOAF WITH BACON CURLS 

1 quart lima beans, cooked and mashed 1 onion 

1 egg 1 cup cream sauce 

Mix, season with salt and pepper, bake 40 minutes. Turn out on 
platter and serve with tomato sauce and very thin slices of crisply fried 
bacon. Creain sauce — made of bacon drippings, flour and milk. 

A good substitute for meat. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

Cook peppers in salt water until tender, and remove seed. 

1 can tomatoes Vz teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar Vz cup butter 

1 cup toasted bread crumbs 

Cook imtil thick. Fill peppers and have about yi inch of sauce in 
pan. Put in oven until brown. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 



Cntre'eg 

There's no meat like 'em. I could wish my best friend at such a feast. — Timon of Athens. 



(83) 



A DIGESTIBLE WELSH RAREBIT 

(For the Chafing Dish) 

3 cups cheese, finely grated 1 tablespoon butter 

3 eggs, beaten separately, and very 1 saltspoon mustard 

light 1 saltspoon salt 

1/2 cup cream 1 saltspoon soda 

Red pepper 

Stir the mustard, salt, soda and pepper into the grated cheese. Melt 
the butter in the blazer over the hot water pan, in which the water should 
be boiling; slowly stir in the cheese and add the cream, drop by drop, 
stirring aU the time; when smooth, add the yolks of the eggs; work 
quickly, for the cheese will curdle if cooked too long; lightly whip in the 
whites of the eggs, and serve instantly on toast. 

This is my own invention. Miss Emma Blakiston 

WELSH RAREBIT 

1 pint milk Vz pound cheese 

1 tablespoon (even) cornstarch Salt, mustard, cayenne pepper 

Put the milk on the range to heat. Mix the cornstarch with a little 
cold milk, adding to the heated milk. Stir well until it boils and becomes 
like thick cream. Slice the cheese, rather soft and not too sharp. Melt 
in the hot milk, seasoning with salt, a small quantity of dry mustard and 
a tiny shake of cayenne pepper. Pour over small pieces of well-toasted 
bread. Mrs. Robert P. Brown 

MUSHROOMS SOUS CLOCHES (UNDER GLASSES) 

1 poimd mushrooms 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup cream Salt, pepper 

Cut rounds from slices of bread with large biscuit cutter. Toast 
bread and arrange slices on white deep dishes like those used for poached 
eggs. Separate mushrooms from stems, discarding stems. Saute mush- 
rooms in a pan in which the butter has been melted, dust with salt and 
pepper, add the cream, and let it just boil. Arrange mushrooms on the 
toast, and pour over the cream and cover with glass bells. Stand in pan 
and then in oven for 15 minutes. This will serve 6 persons. 

Mrs. William R. Turner 

(85) 



86 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TOMATO CREAM TOAST 

3 tablespoons flour V4 teaspoon soda 

3 tablespoons butter y2 teaspoon salt 

IV2 cups stewed tomatoes (strained) ^2 cup cream (scalded) 

Cook the flour in the butter, add tomatoes, soda, salt, and lastly, 
scalded cream. Pour over 6 slices of crisp buttered toast and serve 
immediately. 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 

SANDWICHES 

Philadelphia cream cheese Parsley 

Eggs (hard boiled) Onion juice 

V2 green pepper Lemon juice 

Olive oil 

Mash the cheese with yolks of eggs, a few grains of cayenne pepper 
and salt ; chop green pepper, a little parsley chopped fine with the boiled 
white of egg; mix with cheese, add a few drops of onion juice, a little 
lemon juice. Add enough olive oil to spread easily on the crackers. 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit 

EGGS AU GRATIN 

Break an egg into individual ramekin, pour over it a thick cream 
sauce and grate a little cheese on top. Brown in gas oven. Cook not 
over 3 minutes. 

Mrs. William Shewell Ellis 

EGG TIMBALES 

Beat 6 eggs without separating. Add 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

V2 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon onion juice 

iy2 pints milk 

Stir all together and fill buttered timbale molds, or muffin pans, two 
thirds full. Put in pan of boiling water and cover molds with paper. 
Put in oven for 15 or 20 minutes. Turn out on platter. Serve as entree, 
with mushrooms sauted, put all aroimd. This will make 8 timbales. 

Mrs. William R. Turner 



BOOK OF RECIPES 87 

TIMBALE 

4 eggs 6 drops lemon juice 

1/2 cup cream Vinegar 

1 gill water Pinch of salt 

Dash of white pepper 

Beat the eggs together, not very light. Bake in a French ring. Fill 
with mushrooms or fried tomatoes. Mrs. James A. Develin 

BAKED OMELETTE 

6 eggs (well beaten) 1 tablespoon flour, dissolved in cold 

1 teaspoon salt milk 

Dessertspoon melted butter 1 pint hot milk 

Mix well; put in a buttered dish to bake. Bake quickly. 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 

PALATABLE EGG CHOPS 

6 eggs Pepper and salt to taste 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon butter Peas 

Boil 5 eggs very hard. Rub the yolks through a sieve, and chop the 
whites, not making them too fine. Put cup of milk over fire in a double 
boiler. Rub together flour and butter with 1 beaten egg. Mix a little 
of the warm milk with this, before stirring into the boiling milk; season 
with pepper and salt until thick and smooth. Take from fire and, when 
almost cool, stir into it the prepared yolks and whites. When cold enough 
to handle, mold into chops, dip in egg and crumbs and fry a delicate brown. 
Serve with peas. 

This, when properly made and fried, is a very dainty, delicate and 
appetizing dish when you do not wish to serve meat. 

Miss Anna Johnson 

CHEESE ENTREE 

V2 pound cheese (grated) i^ teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon flour Pinch of pepper 

Vi teaspoon mustard V2 pint cream or milk 

Mix well, put over a slow fire to melt; allow it to cook, stirring all 
the time. Serve with small pieces of toast about it. 

Mrs. William H. Hollar 



88 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHEESE ENTREE 

2 tablespoons flour Bggs 

2 tablespoons butter American cheese 

1 cup milk or cream Paprika 

Cook flour and butter together in a double boiler until the mixture 
bubbles. Add milk or cream and stir until it thickens. Then add some 
finely sliced American cheese and season with a dash of paprika. Put 
3 tablespoons of this mixture in your ramekins, then break an egg in each, 
being careful not to break the yolk. Season with more paprika, and povir 
what is left of the cheese mixture over the top of the egg. Place ramekins 
in pan of water and bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

This recipe is very much liked in our family. 

Miss Seraph J. Deal 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Cheese 3^ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 pint milk 1 egg (beaten separately) 

14 teaspoon mixed mustard Salt and pepper 

Line a small pudding dish with thin slices of bread and butter, place 
thin slices of dairy cheese, or grated cheese, on top with salt and pepper 
until you have 3 layers. Pour over this the milk, into which you have 
already put mustard, Worcestershire sauce, and egg. Pour over the 
bread in the pudding dish, the milk, egg, etc. Put plate over it for 5 
minutes; let stand 15 minutes, and bake in quick oven about 20 minutes. 

Miss Anne Hollingsworth Wharton 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 oimce butter 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons grated cheese 
1 pint milk Salt, red pepper 

Heat the butter, and stir in the flour; season with salt and red pepper, 
and add the milk. Let all come to a boil, then allow it to cool off partly. 
When cool, add the yolks of the eggs, grated cheese, and the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Pour the whole into a buttered tin, lay buttered paper over 
the top, and bake in a quick oven 10 minutes. Serve at once. 

Miss Hilda Justice 



BOO K OF RECIPES 89 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

1/4 pound cheese (grated) 1 teaspoon butter 

1/3 cup flaked rice V2 teaspoon salt 

Heat the milk to boiling point, turn in the grated cheese, and when 
melted add the rice, the butter and the salt. Lastly, the egg, or two if 
preferred, gently stirred in. Serve at once on toast. 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 

CHEESE FONDUE 

2 cups milk 4 well-beaten eggs 

Pinch of soda 1 tablespoon (level) melted butter 

1 cup fine bread crumbs Pepper, salt 

y-i pound dry grated cheese Pinch of mace 

Soak bread crtunbs in the milk, with soda stirred in; beat in the 
eggs and seasoning, and the cheese last. Butter a pudding dish, put in 
the mixture, strew the top with pieces (or fine bread crumbs) and cover. 
Bake yi hour, and then brown quickly. Serve quickly, as it will fall in 
cooHng. Joseph Pettit 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon (heaping) flour 

1 cup milk 

Let this thicken, then add 

1 pound cheese (cut fibae) 1 cup fine bread cnxmbs 

2 eggs (yolks), well beaten 

Cook till cheese is melted. 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 cup scalded milk (very fresh) 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup soft stale bread crumbs V2 teaspoon salt 

l^ pound mild cheese, cut in small Yolks of 3 eggs 

pieces Whites of 3 eggs 

Mix first 6 ingredients; add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff. Pour 
in a buttered baking dish and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 



90 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHEESE BALLS 

2 cups grated cheese Little salt 

2 eggs (whites) Little cayenne pepper 

Beat the eggs very stiff; stir the eggs into the cheese. Make into 
balls. Roll in sifted cracker crumbs and fry in hot deep fat. Drain on 
brown paper. This makes 18 cheese balls. 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 

CHEESE RAMEKIN 

1 cup grated cheese Small piece of butter 

Vz to % cup bread crumbs 3 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon mustard . Salt (small pinch) 

34 pint boiling milk 

Soften bread cmmbs in the milk. When cold, put in cheese, beat 
up well; beat eggs separately, put yolks in mixture, then whites (beaten 
very light) ; grease baking dish, and bake yi hour in a slow oven, or longer 
if not brown. 

Mrs. William A. Wiederseim 

SAVORY CHEESE 

14 cup butter 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 

1/2 pound American cheese 2 tablespoons tomato catsup 

6 stuffed olives (chopped fine) Little salt 

V2 onion (grated) 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Beat the butter to a cream, gradually adding cheese, olives, onion, 
sauce, catsup, a little salt if required, and chopped parsley. Mix all 
together, pack into a mold, set on ice until ready to serve — the next day. 

Mrs. William R. Turner 



What relish is this? — Twelfth Night. 

Stewed in brine, smarting in lingering pickle. — Anthony and Cleopatra. 



(91) 



SWEET PEACH PICKLE 

1/2 bushel basket of firm free-stone 4 pounds granulated sugar 

peaches 2 ounces whole cloves 

1 gallon good vinegar 2 otinces stick ciimamon 

2 ounces allspice 

Pare peaches. Put vinegar in large porcelain-lined preserving kettle. 
Put sugar in smaller kettle with barely enough water to dissolve it, and 
let it boil till it makes big slow bubbles, then pour it into the hot vinegar 
in which the spice has been cooking. (If preferred spice can be put in two 
cheesecloth bags or loosely tied in pieces of cheesecloth.) Into this boil- 
ing, sweetened, spiced vinegar drop the peaches till the vinegar will cover 
no more. Let them get tender but not soft, and repeat the process till 
all the peaches have been cooked in the vinegar. Have ready a tall stone 
jar, clean and well scalded. As the peaches cook lift them into the jar 
with a strainer ladle. When all the peaches have been put into the jar 
pour the hot vinegar over them, drop in the spice bags and lightly cover 
top of jar with a napkin. The vinegar must cover the fruit. When 
cold, cover with a clean cloth and put on the lid. 

This keeps indefinitely and is a most palatable relish with roast meats. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 



MANGO PEACHES 

1 basket free stone peaches (firm yel- 12 pounds sugar 

low) Vs quart grated horseradish 

2/3 quart chopped cabbage 2 tablespoons mustard seed 

2 quarts vinegar 2 tablespoons whole cloves 

3 tablespoons whole cinnamon 

Divide the peaches in halves, remove the stones and fill with the 
mixture of cabbage, horseradish and mustard seed, placing two or three 
whole cloves in each; tie the halves firmly together with tape (string 
will cut). Make a syrup of vinegar and sugar, boiling the spice bag con- 
taining cloves and cinnamon in it. Drop the peaches in, a few at a time. 
Boil until tender— a few minutes if peaches are soft; a little longer, if 
hard. Put in crocks, covering with syrup, and allow them to stand some 

weeks before using. 

Miss Anna L. Coale 

(93) 



94 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



7 pounds yellow peaches 



PICKLED PEACHES 

3V2 pounds sugar 
1 pint vinegar 



Boil vinegar and sugar and spices together; when the syrup is sea- 
soned enough, remove the spice bag and cook the peaches in this syrup 
until tender; then bottle, and make air-tight. 

Spice Bag 
Pinch of cloves, allspice and mace Plenty of cinnamon 

Mrs. Edwin F. Keen 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 



2 gallons green tomatoes (sliced thin 

without peeling) 
12 good-sized onions (peeled and sliced) 
1 quart vinegar 
1 quart brown sugar 



2 tablespoons salt 

1 tablespoon ground mustard 

1 tablespoon black pepper 

1 tablespoon allspice 

1 teaspoon groimd cloves 



Mix together, cook until tender, stirring often. Put in glass jars. 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 



1/2 peck small green tomatoes 
6 onions 



1 cup salt 
1 quart vinegar 
2 quarts water 



Slice tomatoes and onions very thin, add salt and let stand all night. 
In the morning, drain and boil in vinegar and water. Drain again and 
throw liquor away. Then add: 



3 quarts vinegar 

2 poimds brown sugar 

1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

1 tablespoon ground mustard 



1 tablespoon ground allspice 
3 tablespoons ground celery seed 
1 teaspoon red pepper 
y-i pint horseradish 



Boil all together for 15 minutes, put in jars and cover when cold. 
The ground spices can be put in a bag and removed when boiled. 
A recipe of my mother's which we think very good. 

Mrs. George L. Mitchell 



BOOK OF RE CIPES 95 

OYSTER BAY GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

1/2 peck green tomatoes Vz cup salt 

3 green peppers Vinegar 

Slice tomatoes and peppers. Sprinkle with Y^. cup of salt and let 
stand over night in wooden or earthen vessel. Strain off the water, rinse 
in cold water by holding in a colander under faucet. (If you use tin, put 
a piece of cheesecloth between. Do not let any of it come in contact 
with tin, not even a spoon.) Cover with vinegar, when well drained, in 
an agate or porcelain-lined kettle, then add: 

1/2 cup horseradish V2 tablespoon whole allspice 

2 cups sugar V\ tablespoon whole cloves 

Vi tablespoon stick cinnamon 

Cook very slowly until tender. 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 



SPANISH PICKLE 

3 dozen large cucumbers V2 peek onions 

4 dozen large green peppers Vz peck green tomatoes 

Cut in small pieces, sprinkle with salt and let them stand over night, 
then wash in clear cold water and let them drain thoroughly. Add: 

1 ounce white pepper V2 oimce celery seed 

1 ounce mustard seed 3 tablespoons dry mustard 

Vi oxmce cloves 1 pound brown sugar 

Cut up some horseradish in small pieces, cover with vinegar and boil 

one hour. 

Mrs. Robert T. Boyd 



PICKLED CHERRIES 

Stone the cherries and cover them with white wine vinegar; let them 
stand 12 hours, then drain. When drained put in stone jar in layers of 
1 quart of sugar to 1 quart of cherries and cover. Stir with wooden 
spoon every day for 7 days, then bottle. No cooking. 

Cherries done by this method are firm and of delicious flavor. 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 



96 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FRENCH PICKLE 

1 peck green tomatoes 1 pound brown sugar 

1 dozen large onions Vi pound mustard 

1 dozen green peppers iVz oimces white mustard seed 

2 quarts vinegar V/z oimces celery seed 

Slice together the green tomatoes, onions and peppers; spread them 
on platters in layers and sprinkle salt between each layer. Let them 
remain so over night. In the morning squeeze dry, put in a kettle with the 
vinegar, sugar and mustard. Cook slowly 2 hours. Then chop rather 
fine and add white mustard seed and celery seed. Stir in well and bottle 
for use. 

This recipe has been used for years in our family, and is excellent. 

Mrs. Henry T. Dechert 

SWEET CHERRY PICKLE 

Use Murillo cherries. Stone and cover with vinegar not too strong. 
Let stand 24 hours. Drain, weigh, and add 1 pound of sugar to 1 pound 
of cherries. Put in crock and stir occasionally until sugar is all dissolved. 
Put in jars and seal. Mrs. Walter C. McIntire 

WATERMELON PICKLE 

Watermelon rind 1 quart vinegar 

Alum water Stick ciimamon 

3 pounds sugar Whole cloves 

Pare the rind, cut in pieces and soak over night in salt water strong 
enough to bear an egg; then drain off and soak in altmi water 24 hours. 
Next, rinse, put in a kettle with fresh water. Boil tmtil tender (not soft), 
then pour off water and boil in vinegar and sugar until transparent. Put 
in cinnamon and cloves. 

Mrs. Samuel S. Thompson 

GINGER PEARS 

4 pounds pears (sliced very thin) V2 pint water 

4 poimds sugar 2 lemons (sliced very thin) 

2 ounces ginger root (potmded to dust) 

Dissolve the sugar and water, put all together and boil until tender 
and jellied. 

Mrs. William P. Worth 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



97 



Cantaloupe 
Vinegar 



SPICED CANTALOUPE 

Sugar 
Cloves 
Cinnamon 



Pare cantaloupe and cut in medium-sized pieces. Soak over night in 
equal parts vinegar and water. In the morning drain; cover with fresh 
vinegar, to every quart of which add 2 pounds of sugar and spice bag 
filled with 1 tablespoon cloves and 2 tablespoons cinnamon. Boil until 
syrup is thick— 3 to 4 hours. Miss Amelia R. Coale 

TOMATO CATSUP 



41/2 tablespoons ginger 
4y2 tablespoons celery seed 
7 little red peppers 

or 
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 



54 tomatoes (medium size) 

5 onions 

9 cups vinegar 

9 tablespoons sugar 

4V2 tablespoons salt 

Chop tomatoes and onions quite fine; add vinegar, sugar, salt, gin- 
ger, celery seed and red peppers or cayenne pepper. Boil down to nearly 
half. Add the spice when nearly done. Bottle and seal immediately. 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 



TOMATO CATSUP 



1/2 bushel tomatoes 
V2 cup salt 

1 ounce whole cloves 

2 ounces whole allspice 
14 oimce cayenne pepper 



1 dessertspoon black pepper 

5 cents worth mustard seed (a little 

more according to taste) 
15 cents worth ginger (not broken) 
1 quart vinegar 



Boil until it thickens, pass through a sieve, reheat and put up in 
sealed bottles. Mrs. Robert T. Boyd 



MEAT SAUCE 



V2 peck ripe tomatoes 
11/2 cups red peppers 
1 cup chopped onion 
1 V2 cups brown sugar 
V2 cup salt 



IV^ teaspoons groimd cloves 
11/2 teaspoons groxmd cinnamon 
1 teaspoon ginger 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 
3 cups vinegar 



Boil until it is quite thick— about 3 or 4 hours— then bottle in Mason 
jars. Very fine for cold meat, oysters or fish. 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 

7 



98 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MY GRANDMOTHER'S BOILED TOMATO CATSUP 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 1 tablespoon cloves 

1 dessertspoon red pepper 1 tablespoon mace 

1 dessertspoon black pepper 1 tablespoon mustard 

1 tablespoon ground allspice 3 tablespoons salt 

1 pint good vinegar 

Having cut a slit in the tomatoes, place them in a kettle and boil 
yi hour, then strain through a hair sieve, adding red and black pepper, 
allspice, cloves, mace, mustard and salt. Boil slowly 4 or 5 hotu-s. When 
cold add vinegar. 

Miss Elizabeth A. Atkinson 



SPICED TOMATOES 

Tomatoes Sugar 

Vinegar Whole cloves 

Stick cinnamon 

Select medium sized tomatoes, scald and skin, cover them with vinegar 
(not too strong), and let them stand over night. Drain them carefully, 
and to each pound of fruit add yi pound of sugar. Pierce each tomato 
with three or four whole cloves and a piece of stick cinnamon. Boil 
slowly until the syrup is rich enough. Bottle while hot. 

A delicious relish which can be served with hot or cold meats. 

Mrs. Fred. W. Taylor 



FRENCH SAUCE 

y-i peck ripe uncooked tomatoes 1 teacup nastxutiums 

y% pint horseradish 1 teacup sugar 

1 small teacup salt 1 onion 

1 small teacup mustard seed (mixed 1 teaspoon whole cloves 

black and white) 1 teaspoon whole mace 

2 chopped red peppers (without the 2 teaspoons whole black pepper 

seeds) 1 stick cinnamon 

2 or 3 stalks of celery (cut fine) IV2 quarts cider vinegar 

Put the tomatoes into a large earthen crock; skin and cut into 
medium-sized pieces; add the other ingredients and stir well. Use within 
2 weeks. 

A delicious pickle for cold meats or fish. 

Miss Helen A. Childs 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



99 



CHILI SAUCE 



1 gallon ripe tomatoes 

11/2 cups red peppers (seeded and 

chopped) 
1 cup onions (chopped) 
V4 cup sugar 



V2 cup salt 

IV2 teaspoons ground cloves 
IV^ teaspoons ground cinnamon 
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
iy2 pints vinegar 



Peel tomatoes and boil down until reduced nearly one-half, then add 
the other ingredients and boil down until quite thick; stir occasionally, 
but do not strain. Put in glass jars while hot. (A few marbles put in the 
kettle help to prevent scorching.) Mrs. Richard Peters 



2 sweet green peppers 
2 sweet red peppers 
4 onions 

12 large red tomatoes 
IV2 cups vinegar 



CHILI SAUCE 

V2 grated nutmeg 
8 tablespoons granulated sugar 
2 tablespoons salt 
y-i tablespoon mustard seed 
1 teaspoon celery seed 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 



Skin and take seeds from tomatoes. Put onion, peppers and toma- 
toes through a coarse chopper. Mix all ingredients together, boil 1 hour, 
and seal hot. Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 



PEPPER HASH 



5 small cabbages 
1 red pepper 
5 green peppers 
4 tablespoons salt 



1 teaspoon mustard seed 
1 teaspoon celery seed 
1 teaspoon whole allspice 
1 dozen whole cloves 



Vinegar 



Chop together cabbages and peppers; sprinkle the salt over them 
and let the mixture stand all night. Do not drain, imless a very little 
if the liquor is excessive. Sprinkle over the cabbage and peppers, the 
next day, the mustard seed, allspice, celery seed, and cloves. Mix weU, 
then pour cold vinegar over aU. The quantity of vinegar cannot be 
exactly estimated, varying from a little over a pint to nearly a quart, 
according to the amount of liquid covering the cabbage. Taste is the 
only guide, as too much vinegar wUl destroy the flavor of the pickle. 
Put up in stone or glass jars. 

This old pepper hash recipe was given to me by the wife of my father's 
German gardener. Mrs. Richard Peters 



100 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



BORDEAUX SAUCE 



2 gallons cabbage (cut fine) 

1 gallon green tomatoes (cut up) 

1 dozen onions 

1 ounce celery seed 

1 ounce allspice (whole) 

1 ounce black pepper 

Mix and boil 30 minutes. 



1 ounce ground ginger 

1 oixnce cloves (whole) 

V2 pound white mustard seed 

134 gUls salt 

1 gallon vinegar 

V/z pounds sugar 

Place in jars while hot. 

Mrs. George McKeown 



PEPPER SAUCE 

(Moravian recipe) 



1 head cabbage (small) 

1 stalk celery 

2 green peppers 
1 red pepper 



1 tablespoon whole cloves 

2 tablespoons mustard seed 
1 cup granulated sugar 
Vinegar 



Chop cabbage and celery fine and soak in strong salt water 1 hour. 
Squeeze water out and add chopped green and red peppers, cloves, mus- 
tard seed and graniilated sugar. Cover with cold weak vinegar. 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 



CHOW CHOW 



1/2 peck green tomatoes 
1 head cabbage 

1 quart little onions (whole) 
25 large cucumbers (sliced) 
25 small cucimibers (whole) 

2 heads cauliflower 

1 pint pounded horseradish 
Vinegar 



1/2 pound white mustard seed 
1 ounce celery seed 
1/2 teacup ground pepper 
1/2 teacup ground cinnamon 
1/2 teacup groimd turmeric 
3 pounds brown sugar 
1/2 pound ground mustard 
V2 pint salad oil 



Cut vegetables up and pack down in salt 1 day and night ; then drain 
and lay in vinegar and water for 2 days. Drain well again and put the 
vegetables in the kettle in layers with the spices and sugar. Cover with 
best vinegar and boil from 1 to 2 hours. Just before taking up, put in 
ground mustard mixed with salad oil. Let it boil a few minutes after 
this is put in. 

This recipe I know to be good, having used it myself and given it 
to many friends. 

Mrs. William P. Worth 



BOOK OF RECIPES 101 

PICCALILLI 

V2 peck green tomatoes % pound brown sugar 

1 pint onions Vz cup salt 

4 red sweet peppers 2 cups vinegar 

1/2 btinch celery Vz package whole mixed spices 

Slice tomatoes and onions, cover with the salt, and put in an agate 
kettle to stand over night. In the morning drain off the liquid and add 
celery, cut in inch pieces, the peppers chopped fine, spice in bags, vinegar 
and sugar. After it comes to a boil, simmer for lyi hours and put in air- 
tight jars. 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 



CHOW CHOW 

2 quarts large pickles 1 quart green tomatoes 

1 quart sweet pickles 2 heads cauliflower 

1 quart onions 4 green apples 

2 red apples 

Cut vegetables up and put in weak brine, along with the pickles, 
for 24 hours. Scald in brine slightly (do not boil), drain, put back in 
kettle and pour dressing over while hot. Put in jars. 

Dressing 

6 tablespoons (heaping) Coleman's 6 cups sugar 

mustard 1 cup flour 

1 cup (even) turmeric 3 pints vinegar 

1 pint water 

Put ingredients for dressing together, mix smooth and let come to 
a boil (stir constantly), make thick, then pour over the hot strained 
vegetables. (1| dozen "penny" cucumber pickles equal 2 quarts; 
1 heaping quart small pickles equals 1 quart.) 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 

TO EAT WITH MEATS 

1 potmd seeded raisins Melt a glass of currant jelly 

Juice of 2 boxes currants, or 2 oranges (sliced thin) 

Cook 30 or 40 minutes. 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 



102 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOWDER 

V2 bushel green tomatoes (peeled and 6 large red peppers (chopped) 

chopped) 8 large onions (chopped) 

12 large green peppers (chopped) 2 cups salt 

Mix all; drain over night. In morning add: 

3 tablespoons ground cinnamon 1 large cup mustard seed 

3 tablespoons ground cloves 2 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons celery seed 4 quarts vinegar 

Boil in vinegar about 20 minutes. This will fill 12 fruit jars. 
Splendid for oysters and cut cold meats. 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 

CORN RELISH 

1 dozen ears corn 4 red peppers 

8 onions (mediimi size) 2 stalks celery 

1 handful salt 2 poimds brown sugar 

1 head cabbage 3 pints vinegar 

Cut com from cobs, cook 8 or 10 minutes until tender. Slice or cut 
fine the onions. Chop cabbage, pour cold water over it and add salt. 
Let stand 10 minutes. Chop peppers and onions together and cut up 
celery by hand. Put all in a kettle with sugar and vinegar. Make a 
paste of — 

4 tablespoons mustard 2 big tablespoons flour 

1 big tablespoon turmeric powder 

Take out 1 tablespoon of vinegar and mix with paste and cook 20 
minutes. Add all together and put in pint jars. 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 

COLD SLAW DRESSING 

2 raw eggs (beaten light together) % cup cream 
2 tablespoons sugar V2 cup vinegar 

14 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs, add sugar and mustard; beat all thoroughly and add cream, 
then the vinegar. Put the butter in a vessel, let it melt; add the mixture, 
cook slowly until it thickens. Put salt on cabbage, which has been cut 
fine; pour the sauce over. Eat cold. 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 



BOOK OF RECIPES 103 

VEGETABLE CHOW CHOW 

y2. gallon vinegar 1 pint small onions 
Vi pound mustard (scant this by Vi w.) or 

1 teaspoon turmeric 2 bottles pickled onions (this is pref- 
Vi pound granulated sugar erable) 

2 tablespoons salt 1 pint lima beans 
Vi dozen green peppers (chopped) 1 pint green com 

2 red peppers (chopped) 1 pint string beans 

14 pound yellow mustard seed 1 bottle small pickles (cut) 

2 cauliflowers 

Cook the vegetables separately, and cut the cauliflower into pieces, 
but not very small. Mix the mustard and turmeric with some of the 
vinegar until it is smooth. Put the vinegar, sugar and salt in a large 
agate preserving kettle, when this boils add the mustard. When this 
boils, put in the peppers, then add the vegetables, putting the cauliflower 
in last, and add the mustard seed. When this is well mixed and thoroughly 
boiled, it is ready to put in jelly tumblers or jars, and does not need 
to be air-tight. 

Alice Pusey Chambers 



^alabg 



I have bought the oil, the halsamum and aqua-vitae. — Comedy of Errors. 
/ warrant there's vinegar and pepper int. — Twelfth Night. 
We may pick a thousand salads ere we light on such another. 

— All's Well that Ends Well. 



(105) 



POTATO SALAD 

1 quart cold boiled potatoes (cut in small V2 cup onion (cut fine) 

pieces) 1 cup parsley (cut fine) 

2 cups celery (cut fine) 

Dressing 

4 eggs (well beaten) y^ teaspoon black pepper 

1 cup vinegar V2 teaspoon mustard 

2 teaspoons salt V2 cup cream 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Scald eggs, vinegar, salt, sugar, pepper and mustard without boil- 
ing, then add cream and butter. Let cool and mix with potatoes. 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 

POTATO SALAD 

6 or 8 boiled potatoes (cut in dice) 1 onion 

6 hard-boiled eggs 1 pimento (cut fine) 

1 small cucumber A little parsley (cut fine) 

Dressing 
1 pint vinegar 1 teaspoon dry mustard 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 tablespoon flour 

4 or 5 eggs V2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup sugar V^ pint whipped cream 

Put the vinegar (if strong dilute with Yi water) on the fire with the 
butter and let come to a boil; set aside to cool a little. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs with the sugar, mustard, flour, and salt. Add vinegar to this, 
strain and place in double boiler; return to the fire and cook until thick, 
beating all the time. When thick, remove from the fire and let cool. 
Beat the whites stiff, and stir this mixture into them. Before using add 
whipped cream. The dressing will keep if kept in a cool place. 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 

SPANISH SALAD 

Peel and slice oranges, removing seeds; boil in salted water large 
chestnuts and blanch them. Mix with the oranges, chill thoroughly and 
serve very cold, with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. Henry B. Costill 

(107) 



108 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



RADISH AND CHEESE SALAD 



Lettuce 



Radishes 



Cheese 



Take a couple of leaves from a head of lettuce, place on a plate and 
fill the centers with red radishes cut in straws so that the red and white 
can show. Work the cheese with a spoon and form into small eggs. Put 
3 on the top of radish straws, and stu-roimd with 3 radishes cut in roses. 
Pass dressing — French preferable. 

This can also be served as a cheese course. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Limch Room 



MEXICAN SALAD 



10 tomatoes 

2 green cucumbers 

4 sweet green peppers 



2 stalks celery 
Water cress 
French dressing 



Select nice large, round tomatoes; skin them, scrape out about 3 
teaspoons inside of each, and place on ice to get cold. Take cucumbers, 
medium size, pare them; green peppers, and celery; after chopping fine, 
add a small bunch water cress cut with a knife. Pour French dressing 
over all, and fill tomatoes with this mixture. Put a piece of mayonnaise 
dressing on top of each tomato, and serve with water cress around. (For 
10 people.) 

Mrs. T. Ellwood Potts 



FRUIT SALAD 



Celery 
Pineapple 
Green peppers 



Pimentos 
Mayonnaise 
Whipped cream 



Cut crisp stalks of celery into narrow straws about like matches, 
and throw into ice water. Peel a pineapple and shred with a fork. Chop 
fine a few green peppers and pimentos, and put all on the ice. When 
ready to use, dry the celery in a napkin and mix all together with a 
mayonnaise, to which a cup of whipped cream has been added. Serve 
cold on lettuce hearts. 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 



BOOKOFRECIPES 109 

LETTUCE AND TOMATO SALAD 

Lettuce 1 tablespoon (heaping) sweet green 

Tomatoes pepper 

1 teaspoon (even) onion 

Arrange a bed of lettuce leaves on each salad plate and lay on top 
3 slices of medium size red tomatoes. Chop the green pepper fine, after 
removing all the seeds, and add onion and put in the ice box to chill for 
an hour before arranging the lettuce and tomatoes. 

Dressing 

2 spoons made mustard 1 saltspoon salt 

y^ teaspoon black pepper V2 teaspoon powdered sugar 

A dash of paprika V2 teacup cream 

3 teaspoons cider vinegar 

Mix mustard, pepper, paprika, salt, sugar and cream. Stir well for 
a minute and then add vinegar and beat thoroughly for 5 minutes, or 
until it thickens. This amount of sauce is sufficient for 4 plates of salad. 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 



APPLE SALAD 

Lettuce Celery 

Cabbage Apple 

Equal parts of cabbage, celery and apple. Shred cabbage very fine; 
cut celery and apple into small pieces, the apple about yi inch square. 

Dressing 

2 eggs (well beaten) Vz teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons (level) sugar y2 cup vinegar 

y-i teaspoon salt Vi cup cream or rich milk 

Mix eggs with sugar, salt, mustard and vinegar. Cook in double 
boiler, stirring all the while until the mixture thickens. Put into a cold 
bowl and when quite cold, beat into it the cream or rich milk. Mix with 
other ingredients when ready to serve, and serve on lettuce leaves. Half 
of this dressing is enough for salad for 4 or 5 persons. It will keep in the 
refrigerator for several days. 

This is a simple hearty salad for every-day home limcheons. 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 



110 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FRUIT SALAD 

(Good) 

Lettuce Malaga grapes 

Orange Marshmallows 

Pineapple Mayonnaise 

Grapefruit Whipped cream 

Equal portions of oranges, pineapples, grapefruit, Malaga grapes and 
marshmallows mixed with mayonnaise to which has been added whipped 
cream according to amoimt of salad required. Serve on lettuce. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



DATE AND APPLE SALAD 

Lettuce Dates 

Apples Olive oil 

Lemon juice Cream cheese 

Salt Chopped nuts and celery (if desired) 

Slice apples in long thin strips, half the thickness of the little finger. 
Over 2 cups of sliced tart apples squeeze the juice of a lemon, and sprinkle 
salt. (This will keep the apples from turning dark.) Add scant cup of 
dates, stoned and shredded. Over this mixture pour the desired amount 
of olive oil. Chopped nuts and celery may be added if desired. Serve 
on lettuce, with a small square of cream cheese. 

Mrs. H. H. White, 
President, New Century Club of Pottstown, Pa. 



PEAR AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Lettuce French dressing 

Pears Red pepper 

Pimento cheese Swedish wafers 

Cut pears in 8 pieces. Serve in round dish, and between each sec- 
tion of pear place a strip of pimento cheese, so that they alternate. Sur- 
round the dish with lettuce. The dressing should be the ordinary French 
dressing, using lemon instead of vinegar and red pepper instead of black. 
Serve with Swedish wafers and any kind of cheese preferred. 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 



BOOK OF RECIPES HI 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Lettuce Orange 

Pineapple Mayonnaise 

Cherries 

Lay 2 or 3 small lettuce leaves on a plate. Place on this a slice of 
pineapple, divided into pieces, but arranged to look unbroken; on this 
a sHce of orange, quartered, then a spoonful of mayonnaise in which are 
placed 2 or 3 cherries. Miss Agnes Preston, 

The New Century Club Lunch Room 

WHITE GRAPE SALAD 

Lettuce Strawberries 

White grapes Mayonnaise 

Cut in half and seed a sufficient quantity of white grapes according 
to the number you wish to serve. Mix with mayonnaise and serve on 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with strawberries. Serve very cold. Straw- 
berries may be omitted, but they taste good and make a pretty color 
scheme. Mrs. A. W. Robinson 

CHERRY SALAD 

White (California) canned cherries Pimento cheese 

French dressing 

Seed the cherries; in place of seed place a little ball of pimento cheese. 
Serve with French dressing. 

These two (Cherry Salad and White Grape Salad) rather unusual 
salads I have served several times and found them very popular. 

Mrs. a. W. Robinson 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

2 baked potatoes 1/2 cup whipped cream 

1 teaspoon butter 2 tablespoons pineapple juice 

1 tablespoon sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

Yolk of 1 egg 

Skin potatoes and beat in butter. Add the yolk of egg, sugar, lemon 
and pineapple juice. Allow to stand in a cool place, and before using add 
whipped cream. Use white grapes and pineapple on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. Alfred Marshall 



112 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OIL MAYONNAISE FOR SALADS 

Yolks of 3 raw eggs Generous dash of cayenne pepper 

1 teaspoon dry mustard V2 pint salad oil 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt Juice of 1 lemon 

Mix yolks of eggs, mustard, sugar, salt and pepper together lightly, 
then add salad oil very slowly, stirring constantly and always one way. 
This when properly made should grow stiff er as the oil is added, until 
at last the entire mass will leave the sides of the bowl; when may be 
added the vinegar and lemon juice. Ingredients must all be very cold, 
but the oil must not be so cold as to have started to congeal. 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 

MAYONNAISE 

2 hard-boiled eggs V4 teaspoon salt 

3 raw eggs (yolks) Vs teaspoon red pepper 
V2 pint olive oil Vinegar or lemon juice 

Take yolks of hard-boiled eggs and mash fine, then add pepper and 
salt, yolks of raw eggs (well beaten), then oil. Continue in this way 
until you have used up the eggs and oil, and lastly, add vinegar or lemon 
juice to thin to desired consistency. 

Miss Edith Sellers Bunting 

SALAD DRESSING 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon (small) salt 

1 teaspoon mustard 3 teaspoons flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup (small) milk 

1 cup (small) vinegar 

Beat smooth the eggs, flour, mustard and sugar. Then add milk, 
vinegar and salt. Stir well; boil slowly until it thickens. 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 

MEMPfflS SALAD DRESSING 

To a sufficient quantity of French dressing add: 

Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs (grated) 1 tablespoon pimentos 

1 tablespoon chopped green peppers 1 teaspoon chives (chopped) 

Enough tomato catsup to redden 

Serve over lettuce hearts. Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 



BOOK OF RECIPES 113 

EASY SALAD DRESSING 

1 tablespoon oil (heaping to run over) 1 tablespoon (heaping) sugar 

1 tablespoon mustard 3 eggs (beaten thoroughly) 

1 tablespoon salt % cup vinegar 

% cup cream or milk 

Mix oil and mustard well together until smooth; add salt and sugar; 
mix all together thoroughly. Add eggs, vinegar and cream or milk. 
Cook like custard. The salt and sugar should be used according to taste. 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 



SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 

1 egg Vi cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon mustard Salt and pepper 

Beat egg and add sugar. Dissolve mustard with part of vinegar, 
add pepper and salt to taste — and a little butter if wanted. Cook until 
thick, about 5 minutes. Omit mustard if not desired. 

Mrs. Isaac S. Lowry 



MRS. C. C. CONVERSE'S RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING 

1 cup mayonnaise made with Tarragon 1 tablespoon Tarragon vinegar 
vinegar 1 teaspoon chives (cut fine) 

3 tablespoons old Virginia chili sauce y\ teaspoon Escoflfier sauce a la Pro- 

2 tablespoons pimento (chopped) vinciale 

Mix and serve over hearts of lettuce. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 



COLD SLAW 

Cabbage Cayenne pepper to your taste 

2 raw eggs (beaten lightly) 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon mustard 3 tablespoons vinegar 

2 saltspoons salt 1 cup cream 

Shave cabbage very fine and put in a cold place. Put eggs, mustard, 
salt, pepper, sugar, vinegar and cream in a double boiler, let come to the 
consistency of thick cream. After it is quite cold, just before serving, 
mix well with the finely shredded cabbage. 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 



114 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TOMATO JELLY ON LETTUCE 

Lettuce 6 stalks celery (chopped fine) 

1 quart tomato juice A pinch of ground cloves 

1 large onion 2 tablespoons granulated gelatin 

Mayonnaise 

Boil tomato juice, onion, celery and cloves 1 minute; then add 
gelatin dissolved in cold water. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

CHEESE 

Take a cake of pimento cheese, add mayonnaise, chopped olives and 
a little onion juice. Mould into balls and serve with crackers and salad. 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 



Blessed pudding. — Othello. 



(115) 



ROYAL ICED CABINET PUDDING 

1 pound candied cherries 1 pint milk 

yi pound candied green gages 1 large tumbler good sherry 

1 poxmd stale sponge cake 6 eggs 

V2 poimd sifted sugar 1 vanilla bean 

1 pint rich cream 1 box gelatine 

Take a mould with cover and place in a pan of ice and water until 
very cold. Put gplatine to soak. Put milk on to boil. Whip yolks of the 
eggs light and add sugar; strain gelatine into milk just as it boils. Then 
add the eggs and sugar. See that it does not ciu-dle. When the custard 
is cool, add cream, which must have been whipped stiff; add vanilla 
bean. Then take your mould and decorate as you please. Put in a small 
quantity of custard. Cut your cake, soak it in the wine, cut your green 
gages in half and stone them. Make a layer of the sponge cake, then one 
of the cherries, then one of the green gages and custard; and continue 
thus until the mould is filled. Then ice for 3 hours at least. Serve as you 
would ice cream. Take the whites of the eggs, whip them with 1 cup 
of white sugar. Surround the pudding with it and decorate with cherries 
and angehca. The dish should be iced before turning the mould out. 

A sauce may be served with it as one might with ice cream; if you 
do, the wine used as a foimdation for it should be the same as that used 
to soak the cake. 

This dessert, when successfully made, is luscious. It is a recipe 
from our famous Twelve Dollar Dinner Club, when twelve well-known 
women, Mrs. J. Dundas Lippincott, Mrs. Isaac J. Wistar, Mrs. Clarence 
H. Clark, Mrs. Isaac Norris, Mrs. William Hunt, Mrs. William Ingham, 
Mrs. J. W. Pepper, Mrs. John T. Newbold, Mrs. Robert Toland, Mrs. 
Henry E. Drayton, Miss Susan Stevenson and myself, dined together for 
nine years, at one dollar apiece. At the end of the meal the hostess read 
the biU of fare. There was a rule that all ingredients should be included 
in the dollar. The dinner must cover the usual courses. If the hostess 
went over the dollar she was asked for her photograph and her resignation. 
Not only were the rules adhered to, but the dinners became so elaborate 
that a limit was put to the courses. Ingenuity was such that we were 
threatened with softening of the brain. This pudding made an extraor- 
dinary hit when first served. 

Mrs. Cornelius Stevenson 

(117) 



118 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

RICE PUDDING 

By E. Q. a. E. 

1/2 cup rice Va cup sugar 

1 quart milk Vi nutmeg (grated) 

1 teaspoon (scant) salt 1 cup seedless raisins 

Boil rice in plenty of water for ^ hour. Drain, and add the other 
ingredients (except the raisins, which go in a few minutes before the pud- 
ding is done — otherwise they cause the milk to separate). Place all in a 
shallow baking dish and cook on top of stove until well thickened, stirring 
frequently to prevent from sticking. When about done put in the raisins 
and place in a hot oven to brown. Serve icy cold. This quantity will 
serve 8 persons. 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 

RHODE ISLAND RICE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons rice Nutmeg 

2 quarts milk Butter 

2 coffee cups sugar 1 coffee cup (heaping) seeded raisins 

Wash the rice in hot water and cover with the milk. Make very 
sweet, using 2 coffee cups of sugar and perhaps more, according to taste. 
Grate nutmeg and put small pieces of butter thickly over the top. Cook 
in a slow oven about 2 hoiu-s. Stir very frequently and when half the 
time is up, put in seeded raisins. The secret of the success of this pudding 
lies in the stirring. 

Mrs. Frank Battles 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

i/2 cup pearl tapioca V2 cup seeded raisins <■ 

3 cups water V2 cup English walnuts 
11/2 cups brown sugar Whipped cream 

Soak tapioca in 3 cups of water over night. In the morning put in 
double boiler and add brown sugar. Cook for 1>2 hours, then add seeded 
raisins; cook >^ hour longer. Break English walnuts into same, and 
after stirring well pour into dish to cool. Eat with cream, whipped pre- 
ferred. Quantity for 6 people. With one-minute tapioca, cook half 
the time. 

The Misses Longstreth 



BOOK OF RECIPES 119 

BREAD PUDDING 

4 eggs 1 pint stale bread crumbs 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon 

% cup powdered sugar 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, the sugar and butter together, add the 
milk and bread crumbs gradually and grate in the rind of the lemon. 
Bake for 1 hour. When nearly done make a meringue of the whites of 
the eggs and powdered sugar, and add the juice of the lemon. Put on 
top of pudding and bake to a light brown. 

A recipe which our family and friends heartily approve. 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 

PUDDING BLANC D'CEUFS ET CARAMEL 

1 small plate loaf sugar 6 or 8 eggs 

y-2. glass water 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

6 or 8 leaves gelatin 1 pint milk 

To make the caramel, take a small plate of loaf sugar, put over the 
fire in saucepan with yi glass of water. Boil until thick and finally brown 
like molasses. Move to back of the stove, keeping warm and liquid. 
Dissolve the gelatin in as little water as possible, and put this aside like 
the caramel. Now take whites of eggs that have been on ice, thoroughly 
chilled, beat thoroughly with powdered sugar, and when light or thick, 
pour into this first the caramel, then the gelatin; mix well and carefully, 
pour into mould, and set on ice for 2 hours. 

Make a custard of 4 yolks of eggs and 1 pint of milk. Pour aroimd 
the pudding when ready to serve. Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 

PINK PUDDING 

IV2 pints sweet cream 4 eggs (yolks) 

8 or 10 leaves of gelatin Sugar 

10 or 15 drops carmine (vegetable) 1 glass (small) kirsch 

Place on ice for 1 hour 1 pint of sweet cream, then whip it tmtil 
thick; add gelatin dissolved and carmine. Place this, after mixing thor- 
oughly and pouring into mould, on ice. Beat thoroughly yi pint of cream, 
add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, sugar to taste, and a small glass of 
kirsch. Pour this sauce roimd the pudding and serve. 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 



120 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BROWN BETTY 

When apples are poor in the early spring, rhubarb makes an excel- 
lent substitute for them in a "Brown Betty." More sugar and butter 
should be used than when apples are used. 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 

JERUSALEM PUDDING 

1 pint whipped cream Vi cup rice 
V2 box gelatin 3 figs 

Vz cup powdered sugar 3 pieces preserved ginger 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak gelatin in cold water till dissolved. Put rice on to boil, and 
when tender, drain off the water and cover with cold water to separate 
the grains and spread on a napkin to dry. Cut figs and ginger in small 
pieces. Whip creatn and pour into a tin basin, which should stand in a 
pan of ice water. Stir in carefully the sugar, gelatin, fruit and rice until 
stiff, and pour into a mould. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

Mrs. Joseph Warner Swain 

"JUDGE PETERS'* 

2 cups sugar ^ 9 dates 
V2 box gelatin 6 figs 

2 lemons 10 English walnuts 

2 oranges 2 bananas 

Dissolve gelatin in ^ pint cold water; add 34 pint boiling water, 
the juice of the lemons and the sugar; strain and let stand until it begins 
to thicken a little, then stir into it all the fruit and nuts, cut into small 
pieces. Pour into mould to harden, and serv^e with cream. 

Mrs. Joseph Warner Swain 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 pound seeded raisins 1 handful flour 

1 poimd currants 1/2 cup sherry wine 

1 pound brown sug,:ir 2 tablespoons brandy 

1 pound bread (grated) V2 teaspoon mace 

34 pound beef suet Nutmeg to taste 

10 eggs Rind and juice of V2 lemon 
Rind and juice of 1/2 orange 

Boil 5 hours. Serve hot with a sauce. Miss Mary L. Roberts 



BOOK OF RECIPES 121 

SNOW PUDDING 

y-i tablespoon granulated gelatin 3 eggs (whites) 

Vi cup cold water 3 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup boiling water 3 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup sugar Vs teaspoon suet 

V4 cup lemon juice 1 pint hot millr 

Vi teaspoon vanilla 

Soak gelatin in cold water until soft, add boiling water, sugar, and 
lemon juice. When gelatin and sugar are dissolved, strain into a large 
bowl to cool. When gelatin is consistency of a thick syrup, beat whites 
of eggs light, and add them to the jelly, beating until smooth and nearly 
hard; then pour into a mould. 

Make a soft custard of remaining ingredients, being careful that 
custard does not curdle. If it does, set saucepan in a pan of cold water 
and with egg beater, beat until smooth. When cold serve with the pudding. 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 pound raisins V2 pound minced candied citron 

1 potmd suet (chopped fine) 5 eggs 

34 pound stale bread crumbs 1 pound grated carrots 

1 poxmd brown sugar Rind of 1 lemon (grated) 

1 poimd currants V2 nutmeg (grated) 

V4 pound flour 1/2 pint brandy 

V2 pound minced candied orange peel Salt to taste 

Mix all dry ingredients together. Beat the eggs, add to brandy, 
pour over dry ingredients and mix very thoroughly. Pack into greased 
bowls or moulds, boil for 6 hours when made, and another 6 when wanted 
to use. Enough for 4 puddings. Mrs. Alfred Mellor 

PLUM PUDDING 

y-i pound raisins V2 teaspoon cinnamon 

Vi pound currants V4 teaspoon cloves 

Vi pound citron Juice and rind of V2 lemon (grated) 

Vi loaf (large size) baker's bread 1 wineglass brandy 

(soaked in cold water) 1 cup flour 

4 eggs Vi pound glace cherries 

Vi nutmeg 2 ounces beef suet 
Vz pound light brown sugar 

Boil 5 hours. Mrs. William P. Elwell 



122 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 pound suet (chopped fine) 1 glass brandy 

1 pound sugar 2 teaspoons ginger 

1 pound stale bread (grated) 2 nutmegs . 

1 pound raisins V4 pint milk 

2 pounds currants A little salt 

Beat well and steam five hours. 

Sauce 

4 whole eggs beaten light, add y^ cup melted butter 

1 cup pulverized sugar Flavor with brandy 

Beat a long time. Mrs. Robert Beattie 

PLUM PUDDING 

I pound raisins (stoned) V2 pound citron 

1 pound currants 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 pound suet 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 pound bread crumbs 1 nutmeg 

1 pound sugar 1/2 tumbler brandy 

10 eggs 1 handful flour 

Chop the suet fine as possible (removing all strings), add the sugar, 
then the bread, throw in the eggs whole, then raisins, citron, currants 
and spices, beating hard all the time. Then pour in brandy and leave 
it over night in a cold place. Next morning stir in flour, pour into a square 
of strong muslin previously greased and floured, tie not too tight, and boil 
4 hoiu-s. Ornament with blanched almonds and serve with a dash of 
brandy over all and lighted at the last moment. One-half the quantity 
is ample for 6 persons — rich, but perfectly digestible. A hot wine sauce 
is required. Mrs. C. P. Turner 

PLUM PUDDING 

IV2 pounds raisins (seeded) iVa pounds suet 

IV2 pounds currants iVa pounds bread crumbs 

IV2 poxmds sugar 10 eggs 

Vz pound citron 1 nutmeg 

2 glasses brandy 

Boil 8 hours, and then 2 hours before serving. 

Old English recipe of my mother's and grandmother's. 

Miss Anne Heygate-Hall 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



123 



PLUM PUDDING 



1 pound grated bread crumbs 

1 pound stoned raisins (chopped fine) 

1 pound currants 

1 pound brown sugar 

1 pound citron (cut fine) 

1 pound suet 

8 eggs (well beaten) 



1 tablespoon flour 

1 teacup milk 

1 teacup brandy and wine mixed 

1 teaspoon salt 

Vz teaspoon mace (ground) 

Vz teaspoon cloves 

1 grated nutmeg 



Rub the raisins with flour. Add all the dry ingredients and mix 
well. Then add the liquids little by little and last the eggs. Steam in 
a ,cloth 8 hours. 

This recipe was given to me more than twenty years ago I have 
always made mine myself, and it has been pronounced by many who 
have eaten it here the only Pltim Pudding — light and digestible. I am 
sure no one could fail in it. Mrs. William Burnham 



CHEAP PLUM PUDDING 



2 cups bread crumbs 
2 cups chopped raisins 
Wz cups suet 
1 cup flour 
1 cup molasses 



1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda (mixed in sour milk) 

y2 teaspoon cloves 

V2 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 small nutmeg 



Boil 3 hours. If sour milk is rich, use some currants instead of full 
quantity raisins. 

Sauce 
1 cup fine white sugar 1 egg 

V2 cup butter 1 wineglass wine 

Beat thoroughly together. Scald, not boil, in double boiler. 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 



2 cups chopped bread 
V2 cup chopped suet 
Vz cup molasses 
1 egg 
1 cup sweet milk 



JOHN'S DELIGHT 

1 cup raisins and currants mixed (the 

former stoned and chopped) 
V^ teaspoon soda (dissolved in milk) 
Vz teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
A pinch of mace and salt 



Boil 2 hours in pudding boiler. 



Eat with cold or foaming sauce. 
Mrs. William Burnham 



124 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OCEAN QUEEN PUDDING 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon (small) baking powder 

Their weight in butter, sugar and flour V4 pound preserved ginger 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add 1 egg and half the flour 
then beat it. Then add the other egg and rest of flour and beat it. Add 
ginger cut in small pieces and 1 or 2 tablespoons of the syrup and the 
baking powder. Put in a buttered mould covered with buttered paper 
and steam for 2 hours. Serve with soft custard sauce. 

Soft Custard Sauce 

1 pint milk 3 eggs 

Vz cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put milk on to boil in a farina boiler. Beat eggs and sugar together, 
then stir them into boiling milk, and stir over fire until they begin to 
thicken — no longer, or it will curdle. Mrs. Robert Beattie 

JOHN'S DELIGHT 

2 cups chopped bread (heaping full) 1 cup raisins 

1/2 cup chopped suet 1 cup sweet milk 

1/2 cup molasses 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

V2 teaspoon soda (dissolved in hot 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

water, added to molasses) Pinch of salt, mace 

Boil 2 hours in tin pudding mould. Serve with wine sauce. 
Have often used this, which is a good, wholesome steamed pudding. 

Miss Emma Klahr 

JOHN'S DELIGHT 

2 cups chopped bread 1 egg 

1 cup finely chopped suet 1 cup sweet milk 

1/2 cup molasses 1/2 teaspoon baking soda (dissolved in 

1 cup seedless raisins (chopped) milk) 

or y-i teaspoon ground cloves 

1 cup stoned and cut raisins mixed with 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

currants A pinch of ground mace and of salt 

Boil 2 hours in a pudding boiler. Maple syrup, if available, is much 
better than molasses. Eat with hard or fairy sauce. 

This is much more deHcate than a plum pudding, and much less 
trouble. Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 



BOOK OF RECIPES 125 

PRUNE PUDDING 

1 tablespoon gelatin 4 eggs (whites) 

V^ cup cold water 1/2 cup sugar 

1/2 cup boiling water 1 cup prunes 

Soak gelatin in cold water, about 5 minutes; then add boiling water 
and stir until dissolved. Beat the whites of the eggs so stiff that you can 
turn the dish upside down. Add sugar, primes, and stir in the gelatin 
very slowly, beating all the while. Set in the refrigerator for an hour or 
two, when it will be ready for use. Serve with cream. 

Delicious also made with fresh mashed peaches instead of prunes. 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 

DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped dates 1 tablespoon butter (beaten with sugar) 

1 cup nuts (pecan or walnut) 2 tablespoons (heaping) sifted flour 

34 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

3 eggs (beaten together) 

Set baking dish in a pan of water and bake 45 minutes in slow oven. 
Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Walter T. Baird 

FIG PUDDING 

V^ pound figs 2 eggs 

1 cup chopped suet 1 cup sugar 
2Vi cups stale bread crumbs V2 teaspoon salt 

Vz cup milk 

Chop figs and suet together, beat eggs, add sugar and salt to them 
then milk. Add this slowly to fig mixture and beat. Steam 3 hours in a 
greased mould. This pudding will keep for 2 or 3 weeks in a cold place. 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 

FIG PUDDING 

2 pounds figs Spices to taste 
1 pound suet Vz poimd flour 

1 cup sugar V2 pound bread crumbs 

2 eggs 

Cut the figs into small pieces, grate the bread fine, and chop the suet 
very fine. Mix all together with sufficient milk to form a stiff batter, put 
into a buttered mould, and boil 3 hours. Use this with a brandy sauce. 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 



126 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



FIG PUDDING 



V^ pound crumbled bread 

V2 pound figs 

6 ounces brown sugar 



6 ounces suet 

2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 



Chop figs and suet; add bread crumbs, sugar, beaten eggs and salt. 
Put in pudding mould, boil 4 hours. Eat with lemon sauce. 



Lemon Sauce 



2 tablespoons butter 
8 tablespoons sugar 



4 tablespoons cream 
2 eggs 



1 lemon 



Cream butter, sugar and eggs; grate in lightly the rind of the lemon 
and half the juice; stir thoroughly, adding the cream slowly; cook in 
double boiler until thick and glossy — about 10 minutes. 

Miss Anna L. Coale 



TURKISH PUDDING 



V!« pound nuts 

Vz pound dates 

3 eggs (beaten separately) 



2 teaspoons bread crumbs 

IV2 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

1/2 cup sugar 



Beat sugar and yolks of eggs; add cnmibs, dates and nuts. Beat 
whites and fold in. Bake ^ hour in moderate oven. Serve with im- 
sweetened whipped cream. Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 



GRAHAM PUDDING 



1 cup molasses 

1 cup sweet milk 

2 cups Graham flour 

Steam 3 hours. 



1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 small teaspoon soda 

1 cup chopped dates or raisins 



Mrs. W. F. Taft 



GRAHAM PUDDING 



1 cup seeded raisins (chopped) 

1 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in milk) 



1 cup (scant) sweet milk 
Vi teaspoon salt 

2 cups Graham flour 



Steam 3 hoiu"s. Serve with hard sauce or hot dip. 

Miss Mary L. 



Roberts 



BOOK OF RECIPES 127 



GRAHAM PUDDING 

1/2 cup molasses IV2 cups Graham flour 

1/4 cup butter 1 teacup (small) raisins 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 cup milk 1 teaspoon cloves 

Mix well the molasses, butter, egg, milk, Graham flour, raisins, 
baking powder and cloves. Steam 4 hours. Serve with hot or hard sauce. 
This quantity serves 6 people. The Misses Longstreth 

HOT PUDDING SAUCE 

1 cup sugar 1 dessertspoon flour 

1/2 cup butter 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

Vi cup water Juice of \'z lemon 

Mix well the flour and butter, then add sugar and water. Quantity 
for 6 people. The Misses Longstreth 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 egg 1 cup flour 

1/2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 cup milk 2 squares chocolate (melted in butter) 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix and pour in mould with lid, steam for 1 hour. 

Sauce 

1 egg (white) 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 

Beat until creamy, then add white of egg, beaten stiff. 

Mrs. William Shewell Ellis 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

y^ cup butter 6 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 can grated pineapple 

2 cups soft crumbs 

Cream butter and sugar, then add yolks of eggs, then pineapple. 
Stir thoroughly, then add bread crumbs, then whites of 3 eggs stiffly 
beaten. Put the remaining 3 whites on top, beaten well with confec- 
tioner's sugar. Bake about K of an hotir in moderate oven. You can 
generally tell when it is done if it is firm. Hawaiian pineapple is the 
best. Mrs. Robert Beattie 



128 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

6 eggs V2 cup cracker crumbs 

3^ cup sugar Vanilla 

2 ounces Baker's chocolate Whipped cream 

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs and whites of 2 thoroughly with sugar. 
Melt chocolate with sufficient water to make a paste. Add this with 
cracker crumbs to the beaten eggs. Flavor with vanilla, and lastly fold 
in the whites of 4 eggs whipped to a froth. Butter mould well and strew 
with cracker cnrnibs before putting in mixture. Steam 1 hour. Water 
must boil constantly. Serve hot or cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pint powdered cracker crumbs 1 quart boiled milk 

V^ cake chocolate 5 eggs 

V2 saltspoon salt 

Mix together. When cool add eggs, well beaten, and salt. Boil in 
a mould 1 hour. 

Sauce 

1 egg 1 tablespoon hot water (or milk) 

1 cup (small) sugar Flavoring 

Beat yolk of egg thoroughly, add sugar and beaten white of egg. 
Beat up very light and just before serving add hot water, milk and flavor- 
ing — rose flavoring preferably. Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

6 eggs 1 quart milk 

3 ounces Baker's chocolate Sugar to taste 

Grate the chocolate very fine and moisten with a little milk; put 
the rest of the quart of milk over the fire, when it boils mix in the choco- 
late until well dissolved, sugar to taste. Take off the fire and let stand 
until cool. Mix in the yolks of the eggs and put in a little buttered dish 
and bake until well done. Then take whites of the eggs beaten stiff with 
a little powdered sugar and spread them over the top of the baked choco- 
late and put back in the oven to bake a light brown. 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



129 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 6gg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

V2 cup milk 1 square chocolate (melted) 

1/2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

, 1 cup flour Whipped cream 

Steam 1 hour. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 

OATMEAL PUDDING 

Oatmeal (cooked) Sugar 

Milk Egg 

Vanilla 

Let cooked oatmeal cool; add milk, sugar and yolk of egg beaten 
thoroughly, and put in baking pan. Then add vanilla and sugar to the 
white of egg beaten stiff, and put on top; brown in oven, and serve hot. 

Used successfully by a German cook I once had. 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 

INDIAN PUDDING 

7 tablespoons (heaping) yellow commeal 1 cup cold water 

1 cup molasses 1/2 cup butter or lard 

1 quart boiUng milk 1 teaspoon (heaping) salt 

1 teaspoon (heaping) mixed spice 

Pour the boiling milk upon the mixture and stir until there are no 
lumps. Just before putting in the oven add the cold water. Stir several 
times while baking. Bake 1 hour or more. 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 

SPONGE PUDDING 

1 pint milk 1/2 cup flour 

1 tablespoon melted butter i^ cup sugar 

Pinch of salt 5 eggs (yolks) 

Put milk in double boiler, with melted butter and salt; when hot (not 
boiling) stir into it the flour and sugar (which has been rolled and stirred 
smooth with a little cold water). Then add beaten yolks of eggs. Do 
not cook in boiler. Turn into pudding dish and bake in pan of water 
in a hot oven for >^ hour. Serve at once. Should be light-brown crust. 

The Misses Longstreth 



130 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

1 quart sweet milk 1/2 spoon butter 

2 tablespoons (rounded) cornstarch 2 eggs (whites) 

V2 cup cold milk 4 tablespoons melted chocolate 

A pinch of salt Vanilla 

34 cup sugar Cream 

Boil the sweet milk; while boiling, add cornstarch, dissolved in the 
cold milk; salt, sugar, and butter. Stir all rapidly and cook until thick. 
Remove from fire, divide into two parts; into one half stir lightly the well 
beaten whites of eggs; into the other half stir melted chocolate; flavor 
with vanilla. Put into mould in alternate spoonftds, and serve cold with 
cream. 

Miss Mary Massey 



SPONGE PUDDING 

(A New England recipe) 

V^ cup sugar 1 pint boiled milk 

1/2 cup flour V4 cup butter 

5 eggs (beaten separately) 

Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk, and stir into the 
boiling milk. Cook until it thickens and is smooth; add the butter, and 
when well mixed stir it into the well beaten yolks of the eggs, and then 
add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in cups, or in a shallow dish, in a hot 
oven. Place the dish in a pan of hot water while in the oven. Serve with 
Creamy Sauce. 

Creamy Sauce 

Vi cup butter 2 tablespoons cream 

y-i, cup powdered sugar (sifted) 2 tablespoons wine 

Cream the butter; add the sugar slowly, then the wine and cream. 
Beat well, and just before serving place the bowl over hot water and stir 
till smooth and creamy, but not enough to melt the butter. Omit the 
wine, if desired, and use half a cup of cream and 1 teaspoon of lemon or 
vanilla. If the wine is used, and the sauce has a curdled appearance, it 
may be removed by beating thoroughly and heating just enough to blend 
the materials smoothly. 

Miss Maude G. Hopkins 



BOOK OF RECIPES 131 

SPONGE PUDDING 

Vi cup sugar 1 pint milk (boiled) 

y^ cup flour 1/4 cup butter 

5 eggs (beaten separately) 

Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk and stir into the 
boiling milk. Cook imtil it thickens and is smooth; add the butter, and 
when well mixed, stir it with the well beaten yolks of the eggs, and add 
the whites beaten stiff. Bake in cups or a shallow dish in a hot oven. 
Place the dish in a pan of hot water while in the oven. 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 

PUFF PUDDING 

1 pint milk 6 eggs 

V2 pound flour A pinch of salt 

Mix milk and flour slowly together, add the eggs beaten well together; 
put the salt in the eggs before beating. Grease an earthen pudding dish, 
and bake in a well-heated oven from >^ to ^ of an hour, according to 
the oven. Serve the instant it is done. Never try this pudding by 
straws, etc. 

Strawberry Sauce 
1 tablespoon butter (well creamed) 5 tablespoons confectioner's sugar 

Mix both well together and add 10 large ripe berries, or enough ber- 
ries to make quite a soft sauce. 

Mrs. John Gribbel 

INNOCENT PUDDING 

1 pint bread crumbs 3 eggs 

1 pint milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Bake in oven. 

Sauce 
1 cup (small) water 1 tablespoon butter 

1 soupspoon cornstarch 1 cup sugar 

Pinch of salt 

Stir in 1 pint of boiling water. Boil up till smooth, stirring all the 
time. Add rind and juice of 1 lemon. 

Miss Emily Campbell 



132 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING 

1 pint New Orleans molasses Vi pound butter 

1 teacup flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teacup milk 7 eggs 

Beat whites separately, bake % of an hour in hot oven. As soon 
as done eat with Fairy Butter. 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 

FRUIT PUDDING 

4 cups flour 3 eggs 

1/2 pound beef suet 1 teaspoon baking powder 

V2 pound seeded (not seedless) raisins 1 teaspoon mace 

V2 pound currants 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Vi pound citron 1 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup syrup molasses 2 cups milk 

Boil in a tin mould 3 hours. 

Sauce 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon flour 

1/2 cup butter 1 egg 

1 wineglass wine 

When ready for the table, add 1 pint of boiling milk. 
An old recipe used by my mother and grandmother, as well as my- 
self, and is especially good. 

Mrs. Hugh McIlvain 



APPLE PUDDING 

1 cup milk A good pinch of salt 

2 tablespoons shortening (butter and Flour 

lard) Apples 

2 teaspoons baking powder Cinnamon 

Make a batter of the milk, shortening, baking powder, salt and flour 
enough to thicken. Fill the bottom of a baking pan with apples cut in 
small pieces and sugared; add a little cinnamon to the apples and cover 
batter over them. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. Serve with caramel 
sauce. 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 



BOOK OF RECIPES 133 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

1 pint huckleberries IV2 cups flour 

1 cup molasses 1 egg 

1 teaspoon (level) soda • A pinch of salt 

Dissolve the soda in a little warm water and beat it into the molasses 
until it foams; add the egg and flour. Beat thoroughly, add a pinch of 
salt and the cleaned huckleberries dusted with flour. Bake in a moderate 
oven (it bums readily) or steam it. Serve with hard sauce flavored with 
Jamaica rum. Steam 1>^ hours. 

Mrs. Thomas J. Garland 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

1 quart huckleberries 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

1 pint molasses 1 teaspoon ground cloves 

Flour y2 nutmeg (grated) 

1 teaspoon bicarbonate of soda 

Mix the berries and spices together in a bowl. Dissolve soda in a 
little boiling water, and beat into the molasses imtil light and frothy. 
Mix with the berries and make pretty stiff with flour. In a pudding 
mould, boil about 2}^ hours, or steam from 3 to 3^ hours. Serve with 
hard pudding sauce (Fairy Butter), or any desired liquid sauce. 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 



LEMON CREAM PUDDING 

4 eggs 6 tablespoons granulated sugar 

2 tablespoons hot water Juice and grated rind of 1 large lemon 

Beat the yolks of eggs, 4 tablespoons of the sugar, and the lemon 
juice and rind together. Add the hot water, mix thoroughly, put over 
the fire (in small double boiler is best) and stir constantly until it thickens. 
Have ready, before doing this, the whites of the eggs and 2 tablespoons 
of the sugar, beaten very stiff. When the yolks, sugar and lemon are 
cooked, stir quickly while hot into the whites, beating tmtil thoroughly 
mixed. Eat cold. 

This is nice served in sherbet glasses, and is so rich that it is well 
to serve some sort of dainty imsweetened crackers with it, rather than 
cake. 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 



134 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

Flour enough to make sti£f batter 1 small teaspoon soda (dissolved in sour 

2 quarts huckleberries milk or water) 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup molasses 

3 eggs (beaten light) 

Flour the fruit and stir in carefully without breaking. Steam 2 
hours in a mould. 

Mrs. Samuel S. Thompson 



BLACKBERRY PUDDING 

y2 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

3 tablespoons melted butter 1 pint flour 

1 egg (beaten stiff) 3 tablespoons baking powder 

1 box blackberries 

Beat the egg, add sugar, then melted butter, then milk; lastly, stir 
in flour with baking powder in it. Put one-half the dough in a pudding 
dish, cover with the blackberries, add rest of dough, and bake well. Eat 
with hard sauce. 

This recipe was taken from Good Housekeeping years ago, and has 
always been thought delicious by every one partaking of it at our table. 

Miss Anna Johnson 

DELIGHTFUL PUDDING 

1 quart milk Vi pound flour 

Vi poimd mashed potatoes 3 eggs (beaten separately) 

Yz teaspoon salt 

Boil the milk and let it cool. Add the flour to the mashed potatoes; 
beat the potatoes, flour and yolks together, then add the beaten whites 
and salt. Bake in a slow oven }4 hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

Miss Hilda Justice 

COLD PUDDING SAUCE 

1 pint whipped cream Vz cup powdered sugar 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

Beat all together and flavor. 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox, 
President, The Woman's Club of Phoenixville, Pa. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 135 

ORANGE PUDDING 

4 oranges 2 eggs 

Granulated sugar 1 tablespoon (heaping) cornstarch 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Slice the oranges thin, sprinkle with granulated sugar. Make a 
custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, and cornstarch dissolved in cold milk 
and stirred in the custard on the fire. When the custard is cool pom- 
it over the sliced oranges. Beat up the whites of the eggs with powdered 
sugar and spread or drop over the top and put in the oven to brown. 

Miss Henrietta W. Pearsall 



CARROT PUDDING 

1 cup white potatoes (grated) 1 cup flour 

1 cup carrots (grated) 1 cup raisins 

1 cup (heaping) chopped suet 1 cup currants 

1 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and boil in a quart bowl (or pudding tin) for 3 hours; put it to 
boil in pot of boiling water. To be eaten with hard sauce. 
Often tried and highly approved. 

Mrs. Henry C. McIlvaine 



CARROT PUDDING 

1 egg 1 cup sugar 

3^ cup suet 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 

1 cup grated raw carrot V2 teaspoon ground cloves 

1 cup grated raw white potato 1 grated nutmeg 

1 cup raisins Juice and rind of 1 lemon or orange 

1 cup currants 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup flour A little salt 

Boil in pudding mould 3 hours. 

Sauce 
1 tablespoon butter 1 wineglass wine, brandy or sour jelly 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon flour 

1 egg 1 cup boiling water 

Pudding can be served with the above or a hard sauce. 

Mrs. John I. McGuigan 



136 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

RIPE GOOSEBERRY PUDDING 

Ripe gooseberries 4 ounces sugar 

3 eggs 2 ounces butter 

4 ounces Naples biscuits (bruised) 

Fill a jar nearly full with ripe gooseberries and put the jar into a pan 
of boiling water over the fire, stewing them till the juice flows out. Pour 
off a pint of the juice and stir into it the sugar, butter and biscuits. Beat 
separately the yolks and white of the eggs; stir in when the juice is 
cold, the yolks first, then the whites, and bake for yi hour. Serve hot or 
cold, with sugar sifted over. 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 



Why there they are both, baked in that pie. — Titus Andronicus. 



(137) 



PENNSYLVANIA APPLE PIE 

Apples Cinnamon 

Sugar Butter 

Cream 

Pare and core 3 or 4 good-sized greening apples. Cut the apples 
in halves crosswise, leaving the holes to be filled with sugar and cinnamon. 
After having lined a pie pan with good light crust, place the apple halves 
so that they touch (only 1 layer), then fill the holes with sugar and cin- 
namon and small lumps of butter on top. When the pie is quite done, 
remove from the oven just long enough to pour a cup of rich cream over 
all and return to oven for a few minutes only, then serve hot. 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 

MARLBOROUGH PIE 

1 lemon 1 tablespoon (rounding) butter 

3 apples (medium size) 3 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup sugar 1 saltspoon ground cinnamon 

Grate the rind of the lemon; peel apples, grate down to core; add 
sugar (take more if apples are sour), butter and yolks of eggs. Put all 
in double boiler until it thickens, then take it off and add the juice of the 
lemon, cinnamon, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, added to the mix- 
ture; beat together lightly, put into crust and bake in a moderate oven. 
Don't put a top crust on. Mrs. Edward L. Reynolds 

LEMON MtRINGUE PIE 

1 lemon (2 if small) 3 cups boiling water 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons (heaping) cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Make rich pie crust and line two tins; prick with fork and bake a 
golden brown. Fill with the following mixture : 

Dissolve the cornstarch by stirring into the boiling water (must be 
rather thick); add grated rind and juice of lemon and \}4 cups of the 
sugar with the beaten yolks of 3 eggs and white of 1. Stir all into the 
cooked starch and water. Fill tins and cover with meringue made from 
whites of 2 eggs, the remaining yi cup of sugar and vanilla. Put in oven 
and brown. Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

(139) 



140 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE 

3 eggs (yolks) V2 lemon (juice and rind) 

IV2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons (even) flour 

IV2 cups water Butter the size of a walnut 

Put sugar, beaten yolks, 1 cup water, butter and lemon in double 
boiler. Cook until thick. Blend flour with remaining ]4. cup of water 
and stir into custard, boiling a minute or two. Pour this into baked shell 
when cool. Whip whites of eggs, allowing a scant tablespoon of sugar 
to each egg. Put this on top of pie and place in oven a few minutes to 
brown slightly. 

Shell 

1 cup flour Pinch of salt 

1 tablespoon lard A little water 

In making shell use very little water and handle as little as possible. 
Bake in pie plate before putting in custard. 

Mrs. George McKeown 



LEMON PIE 

1 lemon (rind and juice) 6 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Butter the size of an egg 

1 cup boiling water 2 eggs 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold water. Pour the boiling water 
over it. Then add the butter and sugar. When cold add the other 
ingredients. 

Mrs. William Burnham 



OUR FAVORITE LEMON PIE 

4 eggs Pinch of salt 

2 or 3 lemons, according to size IV2 cups granulated sugar 

1 tablespoon (heaping) flour 1 quart milk 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix yolks of eggs, juice and rind of lemons, sugar, flour and salt. 
Pour on this the milk, which has been brought to a boil with the butter; 
then add the whites of the eggs beaten very stiff; they rise to the top 
and brown beautiftilly. Bake with under crust only. 

Mrs. Lewis R. Dick 



BOOK OF RECIPES 141 

LEMON PIE 

Lump of butter the size of a walnut 1 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons flour 

3 eggs (whites saved for meringue) 1 juicy lemon (grate rind first) 



This makes 1 pie. 



Mrs. Edward H. Bonsall 



MARYLAND LEMON PIE 

2 cups sugar 1/2 cup grated crackers 

1/2 cup butter 4 eggs 

1 cup milk 2 lemons (juice and grated rind) 

Beat the eggs separately and put as a meringue on top if desired. 
This makes 2 good-sized pies. 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 



LEMON CUSTARD PIE 

1 cup (large) sugar 1 tablespoon sifted flour 

1 cup (small) boiling water 1 lemon (rind and juice) 

Butter the size of an egg 3 eggs 

Mix sugar and flour, then hot water, butter, lemon and yolks of eggs. 
Put on fire, let boil up only once. Fill the crust. 

For meringue, use 1 tablespoon sifted sugar in whites of eggs. Pour 
over pie and brown. 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 



ORANGE OR LEMON PIE 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon flour 

1 cup sugar Butter the size of a walnut 

1 lemon or orange % cup milk 

Beat yolks of eggs, flour, sugar, butter and lemon or orange (grated 
rind and juice), all together, then add milk. Line a pie plate with rich 
crust, and pour in. Then beat whites to a stiff froth and put in last; stir 
lightly and bake. 

I prefer the Orange Pie, but both are delicious. 

Mrs. H, L. Barnes 



142 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



Pumpkin 

6 eggs 

Vi pound melted butter 

2 cups (large) sugar 



PUMPKIN PIE 

iVi grated nutmegs 

1 tablespoon (heaping) cinnamon 

2 tablespoons rose water 
Vz cup brandy 

V4 teaspoon salt 



Pare the pumpkin and cut into small squares; wash and put into a 
kettle with about a cup of water to a moderate-sized pumpkin; cook, 
then mash through a colander while hot; add melted butter, eggs well 
beaten, sugar, grated nutmegs, cinnamon, rose water, brandy and salt. 
Put in pie crust and bake. Mrs. George L. Mitchell 



PUMPKIN PIE 



1 grated nutmeg 

1 wineglass brandy and wine, mixed 

Currants 

A little salt 

A dash of lemon 



2 poimds pumpkin 

7 eggs 

1 pound brown sugar 

34 pound butter (creamed) 

1/3 teaspoon ground mace 

Boil and strain 2 pounds of the pumpkin which has been nicely 
skinned. Squeeze very dr}^ To the pumpkin thus drained, add sugar, 
butter, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, brandy and wine. Beat all well together. 
Add the yolks of eggs well beaten, currants if liked, salt and lemon. 

Mrs. Joshua Ash Pearson 



3 cups pimipkin 
6 eggs 
1 cup milk 
1 cup cream 



PUMPKIN PIE 

1 teaspoon ginger 
1 teaspoon powdered ciimamon 
V2 teaspoon mace 
1 tablespoon Jamaica rum 
1 tablespoon good brandy 



Pare and cut pumpkin in pieces. Put them in saucepan with enough 
water to cover. Stew until tender, then press through a sieve. To every 
cup of pimipkin add 1 tablespoon of butter and ^ teaspoon of salt; mix 
and let stand until cold. When cold, put 3 cups of the ptmipkin into 
a bowl, add to it the milk, cream, ginger, cinnamon and mace. Beat the 
eggs very light and add to the mixture. Flavor with Jamaica rum and 
brandy. Line two deep pie plates with good pastry and fill with the 
mixtiure. Bake in a moderate oven for about 40 minutes. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



BOOK OF RECIPES 143 

MINCE MEAT 

4 pounds tender beef (pin bone) 2 pounds citron (cut fine) 

3 pounds beef suet 2 pounds candied orange (cut fine) 

8 pounds apples (chopped fine) 1 ounce grovmd cinnamon 

3 pounds cleaned currants l^ ounce ground cloves 

3 pounds seeded raisins (not seedless) 4 ground nutmegs 

6 poimds white sugar 1 quart Madeira wine 

1 pint brandy 

Boil meat in salted water until done, and after removing all fat, chop 
fine, remove all membrane and chop suet ; mix a little salt with the suet 
to remove the fresh taste. Mix all together very thoroughly and pack 
in glass jars and close tightly. This will keep indefinitely. 

Mrs. J. Gibson McIlvain 

ENGLISH MINCE MEAT 

1 potmd suet (cut very fine) y-i orange peel 

1 pound apples (cut very fine) 14 lemon peel 

1 potmd sugar y-i citron 

3 pounds raisins (large seeded) 4 nutmegs 

3 pounds currants 1 quart whiskey 

Grated rind of 3 fresh lemons 

Cider may be used instead of whiskey if preferred. 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 

CREAM PIE 

1 pint new milk 1 egg 

4 tablespoons (heaping) sugar Butter the size of an egg 

2 tablespoons (heaping) flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

6 to 9 oranges 

Boil milk, reserving ^ cup cold. Mix with the cold milk the sugar, 
butter, Qg-g and flour. Stir the mixture into the boiling milk, stirring 
constantly until well boiled. Add vanilla when taken from the fire. 
Split the sponge cake and put slices of orange and the custard between 
and on top of the layers. 

A good sponge cake for this is made with — 

3 eggs 1 cup sugar 
3 tablespoons cold water 1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Miss Helen Lippincott 



144 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



MINCE MEAT 



iy2 pounds boiled fresh tongue 

2 pounds beef suet (chopped fine) 

4 pounds pippin apples (chopped fine) 

4 pounds raisins (stoned and chopped) 

2 pounds currants 

2 pounds powdered sugar 

1 quart wine 

1 quart brandy 



1 glass rose water 

2 nutmegs 

Va ounce cinnamon 
Vi ounce groimd cloves 
V4 ounce ground mace 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 large oranges 
Vi pound citron 

Mrs. Thomas J. Garland 



MINCE MEAT 



11/2 pounds boiled meat 

2 pounds suet (chopped fine) 

2 poimds apples 

2 pounds raisins 

2 pounds currants 

1 pound citron 

2 pounds sugar 
1 pint brandy 



1 pint sherry 

1 wineglass rose water 

2 nutmegs 

1/2 ounce cinnamon and mace 
V^ ounce cloves 
1 teaspoon salt 

3 oranges and grated rind of 1 
1 pint sweet cider 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 



CHEESE CAKE PIE 



3 eggs 

10 cent cottage cheese 

1 cup sugar 



1 tablespoon flour 

Juice and rind of 1 small lemon 

14 cup cream 



Beat yolks well and add cheese mashed fine with fork, the sugar 
and flour well mixed, then lemon and cream. Strain through sieve and 
add egg whites beaten till stiff. Line pan with crust, fill with mixttire 
and bake about yi hour. Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 



1 pint cottage cheese 
1 poimd sugar 



CHEESE CAKE PIE 

14 pound butter 
8 eggs 
1 lemon (rind and juice) 



Mix together the sugar, butter, beaten yolks of eggs, rind and juice 
of lemon, cottage cheese rubbed smooth, and lastly the beaten whites 
of the eggs. This quantity is sufficient for 3 pies. 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



BOOK OF RECIPES 145 

BOSTON CREAM PIE 

3 eggs (beaten separately) V/z cups sifted flour 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon (large) baking powder 

3 tablespoons milk 

Bake in two tins in rather quick oven; when done and nearly cool, 
split with a sharp knife and spread with the following mixtiire, replace 
the divided half and then ice with boiled frosting. 

Mixture 

1 pint milk V2 cup flour 

2 eggs 1 ounce butter 
1 cup sugar Vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler; when beginning to boil, stir in, after 
beating together, eggs, sugar, flour, then add butter. Flavor with vanilla. 

Boiled Icing 

1 cup pulverized sugar 1 gill boiling water 

White of 1 egg 

To the pulverized sugar add the boiling water. Let this boil until 
it hardens in cold water, then pour in a fine stream over the white of 
egg, well beaten. Ice quickly. 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 



FLORIDA CREAM PIE 

1 egg Vz cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter ' Flour enough to make a stiff batter 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Bake in a jelly tin. Cut in half and place filling between. 

Filling 

1 teaspoon butter 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour V2 cup sugar 

Yolk of 1 egg 

Beat together and cook with cup of boiling water, adding water 
gradually while beating. Use as a hot dessert. 

Mrs. Grace S. Williaims, 
President, Bristol Travel Club 
10 



146 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHEESE CAKE PIE 

Have ready a pie crust made with — 

1 pound flour Vx pound lard and butter, mixed 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cut or chop this thoroughly with a knife (never press with a knife 
or mix with a spoon, as it tends to toughen the dough) ; add enough cold 
water to make a dough. Kept over night in refrigerator improves it. 
Now take — 

\y-i cups cottage cheese 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons cream Vi cup raisins 
1/2 cup sugar Vz teaspoon salt 

Press cheese through sieve or potato squeezer; add all ingredients 
to cheese, the eggs last, well beaten. Pour into a deep pie plate lined 
with the dough, and sprinkle with ground cinnamon. Bake in a quick 
oven over 30 minutes. 

Miss Helen A. Childs 

CHEESE CAKE PIE 

5 cent pat of cottage cheese 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

1 V4 cups sweet milk 1 orange (grated rind and juice), or 

1 tablespoon (scant) butter y^ glass sherry wine 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add cheese. Beat light; 
then add flour and flavoring and eggs. Beat well and add the milk last. 
Beat again, and bake in pastry shells. Bake about 40 minutes. This 

makes 2 pies. 

Mrs. Walter C. McIntire 

AUNT ABBY'S BANBURY TARTS 

2 lemons 2 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 poxmd seeded raisins 

Grate the peel of 1 lemon, chop the inside of both. Chop the raisins. 
Beat the eggs slightly, and put all the ingredients together. Make a 
good pie crust, cut with a roimd large cookie cutter and place enough 
of the mixture upon the rounds to fold in; press the edges together firmly 
like a turnover, and bake in an oven the right temperature for pies. 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 



BOOK OF RECIPES 147 

FILLING FOR BANBURY TARTS 

1 cup seeded raisins (chopped fine) 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon (rind and juice) 

Miss Jean A. Flanigan 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup water IV2 teaspoons vanilla 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 tablespoon floiir 

First let water and sugar come to a boil, then add butter and yolks, 
and finally vanilla. Meantime, have flour dissolved in cold water, as you 
would for gravy. Put it in last and beat a few minutes while the mix- 
ture is warm, then cook all together for a few minutes. 

Pie crust should be baked first. Fill crust with mixture, cover with 
whites of the eggs whipped; leave it in oven until whites are brown. 

The Misses Longstreth 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

V2 cup butter 1 cup preserved strawberries 

1 cup sugar Nutmeg 
5 eggs Vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs (saving 2 whites for 
meringue), strawberries, a little nutmeg and vanilla. Bake on an under 
crust. Cover with meringue, and brown. This makes 2 pies. 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox, 
President, The Woman's Club of Phoenixville 

CHERRY POT PIE 

2 quarts flour 6 poimds cherries (4 pounds sour, 2 
1 tablespoon lard pounds sweet) 

V4 poimd butter 11/2 cups molasses (the best) 

1 cup water 

Layer of cherries, sugar to taste, then layer of crust, and another 
layer of cherries and sugar, then crust. Boil about 2 hours. Brown in 
oven the last half hour. 

Miss Matilda Baird 



148 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

PEACH TART 

Bake flaky pastry on the outside of fluted patty pans. Prick all 
over with a fork before baking. Remove from tins when baked. Brush 
the edge of the paste with the white of an egg and roll in chopped almonds. 
Then place half a peach into each shell; pour on a little syrup and cover 
with meringue. Set in a slow oven and dry out the meringue without 
browning. After the tarts have been removed from oven, spread a tea- 
spoon of currant jelly over the meringue and sprinkle with chopped 
pistachio nuts. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



LEMON FOR TARTS 

1 pound granxilated sugar Rind of 2 lemons grated, and the juice 

Vi pound butter of 3 

6 eggs (well beaten) 

Put in a double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens. Keep 
in a quart glass jar, and when needed for tarts, cover small patty tins 
with puff paste or rich pie crust, and put a heaping teaspoon of the jelly 
in each and bake until the crust is delicately done. These are eaten cold. 

An old English recipe of my mother's. 

Mrs. Thomas Theodore Watson 



PLAIN PIE CRUST 

1 quart flour Vi pound butter 

1/2 pound lard 1 teaspoon salt 

Vi glass (small) ice water 

Sift flour into a bowl, cut into it the lard, butter and salt; mix thor- 
oughly. Then stir in ice-cold water, just enough to form a dough (about 
yi small glass), using a silver knife to stir. Use your hands, in mixing, 
as little as possible, after adding the water. Flour the pie-board, take 
about half the dough for the lower crust, and roll it out thin, using very 
little flour in rolling out. The rest of the dough is to be rolled very thin 
for the top crust. 

Mrs. Thomas Shallcross 



BOOK OF RECIPES 149 

COCOANUT PUDDING (PIE) 

1 cocoanut (grated) 1 tablespoon brandy 

3^ pound sugar 1 tablespoon rose water 

3 eggs 1 teacup cream 

A little nutmeg and salt 

Simmer the sugar in the milk of the cocoanut, stir in the grated nut 
and let stand until cold. Beat the eggs light and stir in, adding the other 
ingredients, and beating all well. Make only of ripe cocoanut. Use 
only an under crust. This amount makes 2 weU-fiUed pies. 

Mrs. T. William Kimber 

POTATO PUDDING PIE 

10 eggs 1 pound sugar 

1 poimd butter 2 poimds potatoes (beaten very light) 

1 pint cream Lemon or nutmeg to taste 

Line pie plates with pastry and fill with the mixture. 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood, 
President, The Neighbors, Hatboro, Pa. 



Besserts 

Oh, in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose. — Shakespeare. 



(151) 



CODDLED APPLES 

8 apples 1 pint water 

1 pint sugar Slices of lemon 

Boil sugar and water to a sjrmp; pare the apples and put into this 
syrup; keep well basted with the syrup, but do not stir. When apples 
are quite tender remove from syrup and put on dish — in which they will 
be served — ^let S3rrup cook tmtil almost jellied, then pour it over the apples 
with a few thin slices of lemon, and serve with whipped or plain cream. 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 

APPLES ON THE HALF SHELL 

(Pennsylvania Dutch Style) 

Select large, firm, tart apples. Pare and core. Slice into two or 
three parts, according to the size of apples, by transverse cuts — that is, 
making a thick ring like a doughnut. Wash and place in shallow pan. 
Sprinkle with granulated sugar and cinnamon. Add a little water to 
prevent scorching. Bake in meditim oven for ]/2 hour. Serve on platter 
with beef or fowl. Mrs. Henry Safford Hale 

APPLE CREAM 

2 apples (grated) White of 1 egg (beaten) 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Grate apples into a bowl, add other ingredients and beat 20 minutes. 
Garnish with cubes of red jelly. A vanilla sauce can be made of the 
yolk to serve with the cream. Mrs. Samuel S. Thompson 

BALTIMORE FLOAT 

y^ peck greening apples A little grated nutmeg 

6 tablespoons (heaping) sugar Whites of 2 eggs (beaten) 

Cut the apples in quarters, pare and core them. Steam them imtil 
they are soft, then mash through a colander. Add sugar and a little 
grated nutmeg. Stand them aside to get perfectly cold, then add the 
beaten whites of eggs. Now continue beating the mixture until it is snow- 
white after rather prolonged beating. The Float is not right imless it is 
perfectly white and very light. Serve with either plain or whipped cream. 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 

(153) 



154 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BROWN BETTY 

V4 peck apples Cinnamon 

1 loaf bread Cloves 

Butter Nutmeg 

Sugar Raisins 

Cut apples in quarters, stew in rich syrup the day before the Betty 
is to be made. Place on ice. Soak ^ loaf of bread in water, shred the 
other half, cutting off and discarding the crusts. Line porcelain pudding 
pan with pieces of stewed apple, pour some of the juice over them; cut 
butter in dice, spread thickly over fruit; squeeze out soaked bread, place 
layer of this over apples, then a handful of sugar, a pinch of cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg, a few large raisins, shredded bread, butter cut in dice, 
more fruit, bread, spices, butter and sugar, until pan is filled. Bake 
1 hour in a moderate oven. Baste with fruit juice and sprinkle with 
water. Cover pudding part of time while in oven. Serve either hot or 
cold with hard or cream sauce, or rich cream. 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

BAKED BANANAS 

6 bananas (cut in pieces % inch thick) Juice of 1 lemon 

6 tablespoons sugar 1 y2 dozen cloves 

Pieces of butter in holes 

Bake in oven about half an hour. Use plenty of butter. Bananas 
should be of pinkish color when finished, juicy, and browned on top. 

Mrs. Franklin Baker, Jr. 

STRAWBERRY TAPIOCA 

4 tablespoons (heaping) instantaneous White of 1 egg 

tapioca V2 cup sugar 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoons strawberry preserve or 

jam 

Soak the tapioca in a little water or milk. Put the milk on to boil, 
add the sugar; when dissolved add the tapioca and cook ^2 hour in a 
double boiler; add a pinch of salt. Take from the fire and put in your 
pudding dish, then stir the strawberry through the pudding, then part 
of the beaten white of egg, and spread the rest over the top. Put in the 
oven about 15 minutes. To be eaten with cream. 

Miss Henrietta W. Pearsall 



BOOK OF RECIPES 155 

PEACH OR STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

1 quart flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 pint milk 

Butter the size of a small teacup 

Rub all into the flour, making a paste, and put on two pie plates. 
When the crust is done split each piece with a hot knife, spread over 
each a thin layer of butter and a thick layer of sweetened cut peaches 
or strawberries while hot. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 

ORANGE LOAF 

Juice of 2 oranges 1 cup granulated sugar 

1 lemon 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon gelatin 

Cook sugar, lemon and orange juice, yolks of eggs and gelatin together 
until thick; then beat in whites of eggs. Serve with whipped cream on 
top. Mrs. Alfred Marshall 

SOUFFLE OF RICE 

4 tablespoons rice 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 quart milk 6 eggs 

1 tablespoon vanilla 

Cook the rice in the milk with the sugar. When done remove from 
the fire, and when cooled but still warm, add to it yolks of 4 eggs, 6 whites 
beaten to a stiff froth, and a tablespoon of vanilla. Mix well, and pour 
into a deep, buttered fireproof dish. Sprinkle powdered sugar on the 
top and set it in a cool oven. Leave it until it has risen, then serve 
immediately. Mrs. H. L. Barnes 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

1/2 poimd prunes 5 eggs 

5 tablespoons pulverized sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs very light and stir in pulverized sugar. Stew 
prunes soft, drain them, remove the stones, then chop fine. Add the 
chopped prunes and 2 tablespoons of juice to the beaten eggs and turn 
into a baking dish. Bake about 20 minutes, or until puffed up and golden 
brown. Serve immediately with cream. Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 



156 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

COFFEE CUSTARD 

1 pint cold coffee 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg (yolk) 

Boil and fill into custard cups, and spread the following over the 
tops of the cups: 
1 egg (white) 1 tablespoon sugar 

Sprinkle chopped walnuts on top, and brown in oven. 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 

COFFEE CUSTARD 

Vi cup Java coffee 1 pint milk 

2 eggs 

Boil coffee and add to boiling milk; sweeten to taste. Beat yolks 
of eggs and stir in the milk. Cook 5 minutes after all are in. Beat up 
whites and drop on top of the cups and brown slightly. Serve cold in 
custard cups. 

Mrs. Charles A. Longstreth 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

1 pint milk V2 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 cup brown sugar 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler. Add melted brown sugar, moistened 
with a little of the hot milk to keep it from lumps. Do not bum sugar, 
only melt. Then add yolks of 3 eggs and whites of 2, beaten together 
very light with granulated sugar. Stir until it comes to a boil. Remove 
from fire and add vanilla. Let cool, and when ready to serve, prepare 
the following: 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons jelly 

Powdered sugar 

Beat whites of eggs very light, add small quantity of powdered sugar 
until stiff, then beat in jelly, until egg is pink in color. Do not leave 
jelly in lumps. Drop egg in kisses, on top of custard after it has been 
put in bowl for serving. Custard should be consistency of Floating 
Island. 

Mrs. Franklin Baker, Jr. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 157 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 ounce (light) gelatin % pint milk 

Vs pint water 1 coffee cup (heaping) sugar 

1 vanilla bean Lady fingers 

IV2 pints cream 

Dissolve gelatin in the water, stirring until it comes to a boil. Have 
ready a vanilla bean simmered 15 minutes in the milk in a double boiler. 
Add the gelatin to the milk and strain it over the sugar and set away 
to cool. As soon as it begins to stiffen (it must not be too stiff) have 
ready the cream whipped to a froth. Mix quickly with the gelatin, hav- 
ing ready your moulds lined with lady fingers. Pour in the mixture and 
set in a cool place imtil stiff enough to turn out in form. 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 pint whipped cream 2 teaspoons sherry 

V2 cup powdered sugar Vi teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon (scant) gelatin 14 cup boiling water 

Cover gelatin with cold water and soak }4 hour. Whip cream, place 
on sieve to drain. Line glasses with sponge cake. Then turn cream into 
large basin; flavor and sweeten, dissolve gelatin again in boiling water, 
strain, stir into cream until it begins to thicken; pour over cake. Cream 
should always be whipped whUe bowl rests in ice. Quantity — 10 sher- 
bet cups. 



Miss Jennie S. Potts 

CARAMEL CREAM 

4 eggs 4 pieces lump sugar 

4 tablespoons granulated sugar 1 cup cream 

1/2 small cup milk 

Cream eggs with granulated sugar. Place lump sugar in saucepan 
with about 1 tablespoon of water and let it boil until quite brown. 
Slightly burned is preferable to not being sufficiently browned. Add 
cream and milk. Stir until it boils. To this add the creamed yolks and 
sugar, stirring constantly until the mass thickens and puffs up once. 
Remove from stove and continue stirring a few minutes longer. When 
cool add beaten whites, folding them in slowly. Serve very cold in glasses. 
Quantity for 4 or 5 persons. Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 



158 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 pound lady fingers y\ cup powdered sugar 

1 quart rich, sweet cream 2 teaspoons vanilla, or other extract 

Split and trim the cakes, and fit neatly in the bottom and sides of 
2 quart moulds. Whip the cream to a stiff froth in a syllabub chum; 
when you have sweetened and flavored it, fill the moulds, lay cakes closely 
together on top and set upon the ice until needed. 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 

SPANISH CREAM 

1 quart milk 4 eggs 

Vz box gelatin 2 cups sugar 

Vz teaspoon vanilla extract 

Dissolve the gelatin in the milk; place in a double boiler and bring 
to the boiling point. Beat the whites of the eggs imtil stiff, and put in 
the ice chest until needed. Beat the yolks imtil light, adding the sugar 
gradually ; pour this very slowly into the boiling milk, stirring constantly. 
Cook for 10 minutes, or until creamy, stirring as before. Remove from 
the fire, and fold in the whites of the eggs. Add the vanilla. Turn into 
a quart mould. When set, serve with cream. 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 

SPANISH CREAM 

V2 box gelatin 4 eggs (yolks and whites beaten 

1 quart milk separately) 

11/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put the gelatin in the milk until dissolved. Beat yolks of eggs and 
1 cup of sugar together. Stir into the milk and let come just to a boil. 
Beat whites of eggs with Yi cup of sugar to a stiff froth. Stir in quickly. 
Take off fire and put in moulds. Served with cream. 

Miss Mary S. Parry 

VELVET CREAM 

% box gelatin 1 quart cream 

1 coffee cup wine Sugar to taste 

Warm gelatin and dissolve in wine, then strain quickly into cream. 
Sweeten to taste. Put into a mould. Mrs. Richard Peters 



BOOK OF RECI PES 159 

ITALIAN CREAM 

1 ounce gelatin Vi teacup boiling water 

1 teacup sherry wine 1 teacup (scant) sugar 

1 pint cream 

Soak gelatin all night in sherry wine. In morning, pour into a large 
bowl and melt with about y^ teacup of boiling water, then add sugar 
and cream. When cool, beat thoroughly until stiff and frothy all through. 
Put in mould and on ice till served. Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 

QUEEN VICTORIA'S FAVORITE DESSERT 

1 small box gelatin 2 lemons (juice) 

Vz pint cold water 2 small bananas (sliced) 

1/2 pint boiling water 2 oranges (juice and pulp) 

2 cups sugar 6 figs (cut fine) 

10 English walnuts (broken) 

Dissolve gelatin in cold water; add boiling water, sugar and juice 
of lemons; add bananas, oranges, figs and English walnuts broken in 
pieces. Serve with cream. Mrs. Edmund Webster 

UNCOOKED QUICKLY MADE JELLY 

1 package gelatin Sugar to taste 

1 pint cold water 1 lemon 

1 pint boiling water 1 pint wine or orange juice 

Soak gelatin in cold water for 10 or 15 minutes; then add boiling 
water; stir until gelatin is dissolved, then sweeten, add juice and grated 
rind of lemon and wine or orange juice. Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE 

(Uncooked) 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon cold water 

1 cup sugar 2 squares chocolate 

3/4 teaspoon gelatin Vanilla (bean preferable) 

Melt gelatin in a teaspoon of cold water; beat the yolks of eggs very 
light ; add sugar and beat again. Melt the chocolate, pour 5 tablespoons 
of boiling water over the dissolved gelatin. Mix all these ingredients 
together and flavor. Beat whites of eggs very light; add to other in- 
gredients, pour into frapp6 glasses and put in a cold place. Serve with 
whipped cream. Miss Helen Lippincott 



160 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE 

1 box Cox's gelatin 1 pint cream 

1 quart milk 1 pound white sugar 

1 cup (large) grated chocolate 

Boil gelatin in as little water as possible to dissolve. Put in a double 
boiler the milk, cream and white sugar. When boiling, stir in grated 
chocolate, mixed in a little cold milk; then stir in the gelatin and boil 
all together for 5 minutes, and pour into forms to congeal. Turn out and 
serve with cream. Mrs. J. Gibson McIlvain 

CHOCOLATE WHIP 

3 eggs 1 tablespoon (heaping) grated un- 

1 tablespoon cornstarch sweetened chocolate 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon hot water 

1 pint milk 

Beat the yolks of eggs, cornstarch dissolved in a little water, and 
3 tablespoons of sugar imtil light. Dissolve chocolate, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar, and hot water. When dissolved, add milk heated to boiling point. 
Pour the hot mixture over the beaten eggs and sugar and cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until it thickens. When cool, flavor with 
vanilla and place on the ice. When ready to serve, half fill small punch 
glasses with the custard, and heap whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, 
over it. This custard can also be poured over stale cake and served. 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 

LEMON BUTTER 

2 lemons 3^ pound granulated sugar 

3 eggs Butter the size of an egg 

Grated rind of 1 and pulp of 2 lemons, carefully remove the 
seeds. Add sugar, butter. Beat all together in an agate bowl and allow 
it to boil slowly 10 to 15 minutes. Then beat eggs very light and add to 
the mixture. Boil up once, take off the fire and put in cool -place. 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 

AN ITALIAN DESSERT 

First boil 1 quart large chestnuts; shell and skin them; put through 
chopper; season with sugar and vanilla, or sherry. Serve in glasses, 
with whipped cream on top. Mrs. Henry C. McIlvaine 



You break the ice and do this feat. — Taming of the Shrew. 



U (161) 



LEMON ICE 

Juice of 6 lemons (strained) 1 quart cold water 

3 cups sugar Whites of 4 eggs 

Freeze until very hard. This will be enough for 16 people. 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 



OLD-FASHIONED LEMON ICE CREAM 

Oil from the rind of 2 lemons 1 quart milk from top of bottles 

6 lumps loaf sugar i/^ pint cream 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon (heaping) flour 

Put the 2 lemons in boiling water. When the rind is thoroughly 
softened rub it with the loaf sugar to extract the oil. Dissolve loaf sugar 
in a little of the cream on the back of the stove ; make a paste of the flour 
with a little of the same cream. In the meantime, have the rest of the 
cream and milk on the stove with the granulated sugar dissolving in it. 
Use double boiler. Stir in the paste, let boil 10 minutes, then stir in loaf 
sugar. Let cool, then freeze. 

Miss Emma R. Jack 

LEMON SHERBET 

1 quart milk Juice of 3 lemons 

Rind of 1 lemon 3 eggs 

Scald together milk and rind of 1 lemon; then put in freezer. When 
frozen, or when it begins to harden, add the juice of 3 lemons and the 
well-beaten whites of 3 eggs; then freeze imtil solid. 

Mrs. Edward L. Reynolds 



ORANGE MOUSSE 

1*4 pints cream Juice of 2 oranges 

Rind of 1 orange (grated) 14 pound stale macaroons (grated) 

6 ounces sugar 

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, stir all the ingredients into it, and 
freeze as you do ice cream. 

Mrs. Charles F. Godshall 

(163) 



164 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ORANGE MOUSSE 

1 quart cream 1 cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs (yolks) 

Whip cream to a stiff froth. Add sugar (which has been dissolved in 
a little water over the fire) to strained orange juice, then the well beaten 
yolks of eggs, and beat rapidly for about 3 minutes. Place in a freezer 
and allow same to remain about 3 hours after it has been frozen. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



PINEAPPLE ICE 

1 can Hawaiian pineapple 1 cup boiling water 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tablespoon sherry wine 

White of 1 egg 

Dissolve sugar in the water, add fruit with its juice, and sherry. 
Then freeze, and just before packing, stir in the well-beaten white of egg. 

Apricot Ice can be made from this recipe, using a can of apricots in 
place of the pineapple. 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 



PEACH DELIGHT 

On a mound of peach ice cream place half a fresh peach, the cut 
surface being sprinkled with powdered sugar and the hollow filled with 
Strawberry or Raspberry Ice. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 

FROZEN CUSTARD 

1 quart cream V2 poimd sugar 

6 yolks of eggs Flavor to taste 

Put the cream on to boil in a farina boiler. Beat yolks and sugar 
together until light; then stir into the boiling cream. Stir continually 
until it thickens, and then stand aside to cool. Add the flavoring. 
When cold, freeze. This quantity will serve 8 persons. 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 



BOOK OF RECIPES 165 

APPLE FRAPPE 

A rich, smooth apple sauce, sweetened and flavored with lemon juice. 
Freeze and serve with a sauce of cream flavored with vanilla. 

Miss Clara Comegys 

MAPLE FRAPPE 

1 cup maple syrup 4 eggs 

1 pint whipping cream 

Heat syrup in double boiler. Add yolks of eggs to syrup and cook 
3 minutes. When cool, add well-beaten whites and the pint of cream, 
beaten stiff. Pack in freezer and let stand 2 hours. 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 

FROZEN MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

, iVz pints whipped cream 11/2 dozen marshmallows 

Sherry wine to taste 11/2 pounds candied cherries 

IV^ dozen walnut meats 

Sweeten and flavor the whipped cream with sherry wine ; cut or pull 
the marshmallows in pieces; cut the candied cherries in pieces; break 
up the walnuts. Mix all into cream and put in mould. Pack in ice 2 to 
3 hoiu-s. Serve in glasses. Very good quick dessert. 

Mrs. Alexander Patton 



^resfcrtieb— Canneli 

// may well be called Jove's tree when it drops forth such fruit. — As You Like It. 



(167) 



RHUBARB PRESERVE 

6 pounds rhubarb V^ pound blanched ahnonds 

7 pounds sugar 1/2 dozen lemons 

Boil rhubarb until tender, then add sugar and nuts (chopped), and 
boil 2 minutes longer — about 40 minutes in all — though boil until satis- 
factory consistency. Some rhubarb requires a little water to start it. 
The lemons should be sliced and added when rhubarb is first put on. 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 

TO PRESERVE PINEAPPLE WITHOUT COOKING 

Prepare pineapple as for preserving — poimd for pound. Put in a 
cool, dark place for 3 days. Stir well twice a day with a wooden spoon. 
Then put in jars. It will be perfectly clear and taste like fresh fruit, and 
keep indefinitely. 

Raspberries may be prepared the same way, but are not as rich as 
the cooked kind, but are delicious when strained and used for flavoring — 
such as Bavarian Cream, etc. 

Mrs. a. W. Robinson 

SUN-PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

To every pound of fruit allow three-quarters pound of sugar. Place 
over the fire in a preserving kettle and bring to a boil. When cooked about 
3 minutes turn out on large flat platters and expose to the full rays of the 
sun most of the day, occasionally stirring that all may be equally sim 
cooked. Repeat this the second day, when the juice will usually be suf- 
ficiently thick to put them away in airtight jars. By this method the 
berries are full and firm and the juice rich. 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 

CHERRIES (PRESERVED UNCOOKED) 

Stone firm cherries and cover 24 hours with vinegar. Then drain 
off vinegar; weigh the fruit. Take 1 pound sugar to every pound of 
fruit, and let stand in a cool place for 9 days, stirring well daily. Put 
in air-tight jars. Same vinegar can be used twice. 

Miss Anna L. Coale 

(169) 



170 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

GRAPE CONSERVE 

5 pounds grapes 1 cup nuts 

3 pounds sugar 1 cup raisins 

3 oranges 

Pulp the grapes, cook the skins and pulps separately, press pulp 
through a sieve and put both together and cook 5 or 10 minutes; then 
add the sugar next, the grated rind of 1 orange and the juice of 3, the 
chopped nuts and raisins. Cook 5 minutes, put in jars and seal. 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth, 
President, The New Century Club of Kennett Square, Pa. 

SPICED GRAPE 

5 pounds Concord grapes V2 teaspoon cloves 

3 pounds sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon and allspice 

Vinegar to taste 

Pulp the grapes, boil the skins until tender. Cook the pulp and 
strain through a sieve to remove the seeds. Add the pulp to the skins, 
put in the sugar and spices, and vinegar to taste and boil thoroughly. 
Cool and put in tumblers. Mrs. T. William Kimber 

KIMBALLED CHERRIES 

Take sour cherries, stone and put in a crock, cover with vinegar 
and let them stand 24 hours. Pour off the vinegar and add sugar, pound 
for pound; stir thoroughly every day until sugar is entirely dissolved. It 
sometimes takes 10 days before the sugar is dissolved. The cherries are 
then ready for use, and keep without sealing. 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

5 pounds blue plums 2 pounds raisins 

4 pounds sugar 1 pound English walnuts 

5 oranges 

Slice oranges thin, rind and all. Not whole slices. Put all ingre- 
dients, except the nuts, in preserving kettle; and allow to simmer, not 
boil hard, for about ^ of an hour, or until the orange rind is tender. 
Just before taking from fire, break the walnuts in quarters and stir in 
with the mixture. Put in air-tight glass jars. 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 171 

PERSIAN PLUM 

(Mrs. M. B. Torr's recipe) 

2 small baskets blue plums 2 oranges 

1 pound seedless raisins 1 pound walnut meats 

Remove seeds from oranges and pliims, but do not peel. Grind all 
fruit in meat grinder, and add ^ pound of sugar to 1 pound of mixture. 
Cook 20 minutes and before taking from fire, add broken walnut meats. 
Put in jelly glasses. 

Miss Anne Heygate-Hall 



SPICED PEACHES 

7 pounds fruit 1 pint vinegar 

3 pounds sugar V2 ounce whole cloves 

2 otmces stick cinnamon 

Tie up the spices in little bags, 3 or 4. Boil sugar, spices and vinegar 
together. Pour over the fruit and let stand over night. In the morning 
put the syrup on to boil. When boiling hot, put in the fruit and cook 
until tender. Take out the fruit, boil the syrup down until just enough 
to cover the fruit. Put in jars for keeping. 

Mrs. Charles H. Guilbert 



SPICED WATERMELON RIND 

7 potmds watermelon rind 1 teaspoon alum 

3 pounds granulated sugar Ginger root 

1 pint vinegar Cinnamon stick 

1/2 cup salt Whole cloves 

Select a watermelon with a very thick rind, the long, narrow melons 
often have the thickest. Cut the rind into pieces about 4 or 5 inches 
square; if too small they will not be juicy when preserved. Cut away 
the pink inner part, and pare off the outer green skin. Cover with cold 
water, adding salt, let stand over night, then drain and weigh, parboil 
in alum and ginger water until tender (1 teaspoon of alum and two or 
three pieces of scraped ginger root). Add a few more pieces ginger root, 
also cinnamon stick and a few whole cloves. Add rind drained from 
ginger water, and cook in syrup until rind is clear. 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 



172 NEWCENTURYCLUB 

PEAR CHIPS 

8 pounds pears (hard big white ones) 2 ounces green ginger 

8 pounds sugar 6 lemons 

1 glass cold water 

Cut pears into small thin slices. Pare the ginger and cut into small 
pieces, Ctft the lemons very fine, and put in the rinds of 2. Boil until 
clear and put into glasses. 

This recipe I have used for many years, and is always liked by every 
one, and yet has never been in any cook book that I know of. 

Mrs. Samuel Scoville, Jr. 

CHIPPED PEARS 

8 pounds pears (under ripe) V^ pound candied ginger root 

8 pounds grantilated sugar 4 lemons 

Pare and cut the pears into tiny pieces (>^ inch). Slice the ginger, 
and let pears, sugar and ginger boil together slowly 1 hour. Then slice 
in the lemons (which have been boiled whole in clear water before slicing) 
and boil another hour. Put in tumblers. 

A box of Canton ginger to about 12 pounds of pears. 

Mrs. T. William Kimber 

GINGER PEARS 

(As used in the family of General Putnam) 

1 peck cooking pears 2 pints water 

6 pounds granulated sugar 4 ounces fresh ginger root 

Pare and cut into eighths the cooking pears. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and water. Add the pears, and ginger root cut up into very small 
pieces. Cook slowly about 4 hours. Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 

SPICED WATERMELON RIND 

8 pounds watermelon rind 4 poimds granulated sugar 

1 quart white wine vinegar 1 ounce whole cloves 

Yz oimce stick cinnamon 

Cover rind with cold water, boil until slightly tender. Take out 
and drain. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices together, pour over rind. 
Second day, boil liquor again, pour over rind. Third day, boil rind and 
liquor together about 15 minutes. Put in sealed jars. 

Mrs. Allen R. Mitchell 



BOOK OF RECIPES 173 

BRANDIED PEACHES 

Use clingstone peaches. Remove the skin by dropping for a few 
minutes into strong lye, then rubbing with a coarse towel. Throw into 
clean, cold water and remove the remaining blemishes with a sharp knife. 
Make a sjonip, allowing yi pound of sugar and yi cup of water to each 
pound of fruit. When the syrup boils, remove the scum and put in the 
peaches, a few at a time. Boil until quite tender, then remove and place 
on large dishes to cool. Fill jars a little more than half full of peaches, 
and cover with the syrup in proportion of 1 quart of syrup to 1 quart 
of brandy well mixed, the syrup to be cold before mixing. 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



fellies— famg 

As clear as yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere. — Merchant of Venice. 



(175) 



CURRANT JELLY 

Take fresh ripe ctirrants, not soft, and if possible, not gathered after 
rainy weather. They are best early in July. Wash clean, and pick out 
all leaves and imperfect fruit. Put into a preserving kettle, mash just 
enough to make a little juice in the bottom of the kettle. Cover the 
kettle and put on a slow fire till all the skins are broken and the fruit is 
soft enough to strain. Strain through a bag hung out of a draft, in a 
moderately warm place. Measure the juice, and to every pint of juice 
weigh out a pound of granulated sugar. Put the juice into a clean uncov- 
ered kettle, and after it comes to the boiling point, if the quantity is large 
-let it boil hard 20 minutes. When the juice is put on to boU, put the 
sugar in a clean roasting pan (it is nicer to line it with white paper) and 
put it in the oven. When the juice has boiled 20 minutes and the sugar 
is very hot, pour the sugar into the boiling juice. It will hiss and instantly 
dissolve. Let the mixture boil up without stirring, and then try a little 
on a saucer. If it wrinkles as you push it together the jelly is done. 
Remove from the fire immediately. Have the glasses very clean and 
sitting on a tray covered with a warm wet cloth. Put the jelly into the 
glasses with a pointed ladle and set aside to cool. When cold cover with 
paraffine, and then the metal tops. 

Perfect jelly should be clear, smooth and just firm enough to quiver 
but not fall when turned out of the tumbler. 

If this recipe is exactly followed, it cannot fail. I have made it year 
after year, and it has never failed. 

Gooseberries can be used by the same recipe, and make a delicious 
jelly to serve with cream cheese and salad. 

Mrs, H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

CALF'S FOOT JELLY 

1 set feet 1 pound sugar 

4 eggs (whites) 1 pint Lisbon wine 

V2 pint hot water 3 lemons 

Boil a set of feet in water and let cool; add the whites of eggs, hot 
water, sugar, wine, juice of 3 lemons, and half of the rind grated fine. Run 
the jelly in a flannel bag before the fire — a good plan is to hang the bag 
between two chairs and let it drip into the mould. 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 

12 (177) 



178 NEWCENTURYCLUB 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

1 quart cranberries 1 pound sugar 

1 pint water 1 pint boiling water 

Put on the cranberries with the water, cook until soft, then pass 
through a strainer with the boiling water. Add the sugar and boil 20 
minutes. This always jells. Miss G, B. McIlhenny 

C. O. R. R. JELLY 

1 quart currant juice 1 pound raisins (stoned) 

1 quart red raspberry juice 2 oranges 

5 pounds sugar 

Cook together ^ of an hour. Cut rind of orange in small pieces, 
use whole of orange. It takes about 4^ quarts of red raspberries, or 4 
quarts of currants for a quart of juice. Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 

MINT JELLY 

1 quart apple juice 4 teaspoons vinegar 

1 pound granulated sugar 1 teaspoon essence of spearmint 

Boil apple juice and sugar as for any jelly, and just before taking 
from the fire add vinegar and spearmint, and color to liking with 
Standard Color Paste — "Leaf Green." Use Blush apples or those 
which will make light-colored jelly. Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 

SPICED CRABAPPLE JELLY 

1 peck crabapples 1 cup mixed whole spices (cloves, cin- 

5 cups vinegar namon, allspice, tied in bag) 

Sugar Water to nearly cover 

Stew until soft, strain, boil up and add equal amount of sugar, then 
boil until it jellies. Delicious served with meat. 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 

GRAPE JAM 

Wash bunches of grapes. Pulp them, cook skins until soft; cook 
pulp separately until soft enough to press from seeds through the colander. 
Put skins and pulp together; to every cupful add Yi cup of sugar and 
cook slowly for yi hour. It depends on your taste how you like it, jellied 
or more so, when to remove from the stove. 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 



BOOK OF RECIPES 179 

HEAVENLY JAM 

6 pounds Concord grapes 1 pound seedless raisins 

5 pounds granulated sugar 4 large oranges 

1 cup chopped English walnuts 

Skin grapes and cook pulp 15 minutes. Put through sieve to remove 
seeds. Add skins to pulp ; add sugar, juice and chipped rind of oranges. 
Boil 20 minutes. Add nuts 5 minutes before removing from fire. This 
recipe is well named. 

Mrs. Spencer Kennard Mulford 

HEAVENLY JAM 

ly-i quarts pie cherries (pitted) iVz pounds raisins (seeded) 

5 pounds white sugar 4 oranges (rind and juice) 

Boil 40 minutes. 

Mrs. Henry P. Costill 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

4 large oremges 1 lemon 

1 grapefruit 

Slice on slaw cutter, skins and all, removing seeds; weigh and add 
three pints of water, to every potmd of pulp; let stand over night; then 
boll tmtil the skin is clear (about yi hour) , and let stand over night again. 
Then weigh and add 1 pound of sugar to 1 pound of pulp, boil down to 
required thickness. 

Mrs. Henry C. McIlvaine 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Cut in halves 12 large Seville oranges; remove seeds and put in a 
basin, covering with 1 pint of boiling water. Let stand over night. 
Squeeze the orange juice in a basin with as much of the pith as will come 
away. (The pith is all used as well as the peel.) To every pound of fruit 
allow 3 pints of cold water and stand over night. The next day add the 
strained water from the pips and boil down until the peel is soft like 
marmalade. Now weigh the fruit again and to every poimd of fruit 
add 1 pound of loaf sugar (granulated sugar will do) ; boil again 40 min- 
utes, pour into jars or glasses and tie down. 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 



180 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

2 oranges 2 lemons 

2 grapefruits 

Cut very thin, using all save seeds and hard centers. Add twice as 
much water as you have fruit by measurement. Stand 24 hours. Second 
day boil 10 minutes and again stand 24 hours. Third day add 1 pint of 
sugar to every pint of fruit. Boil \}^ hours, or tintil done. 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 



ORANGE MARMALADE 

6 oranges 4 lemons 

Slice as thin as possible, leaving out nothing but seeds. Weigh and 
add 3 pounds of water to 1 pound of fruit. Let stand 24 hours. Boil 
until rinds are tender. Let stand another 24 hours. Add sugar pound 
to pound. Boil until it jellies. Each boiling will take ^ to ^ hoiu*. 
This quantity makes about 15 pints. 

Miss Annie Heacock 



GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 

1 large grapefruit 1 large orange 

1 large lemon 

Cut in sections and run through the grinder, using all but the seeds. 
Cover with 12 cups of water, 14 cups of sugar. Let stand 24 hours. Boil 
until the proper consistency. 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 



MARMALADE 

1 orange 1 grapefruit 

1 lemon 

Shred the fruit. Add three times as much water as fruit. Let stand 
over night. In the morning cook 10 minutes. Let stand until next 
morning. Measure and add as much sugar as you have fruit and water. 
Cook 2 hours after it begins to boil. Put in glass jars or tumblers. 

Mrs. James A. Develin 



BOOK OF RECIPES 181 

AMBER MARMALADE 

1 grapefruit 1 orange 

1 lemon 

Cut grapefruit, orange and lemon in small sections; remove seeds 
and tough parts; then put in meat grinder; grind, saving all juice. Meas- 
ure the fruit in a cup, and add to it three times the quantity of water. 
Now meastue it again, and add cup for cup of sugar. Put it over fire 
and boil steadily about 2 hours, imtil it jellies. This quantity always 
makes 12 jelly glasses, and sometimes more. The product should have 
a limpid appearance, quite different from the mushy look of some marma- 
lades. Stir as little as possible during the 2 hours or more of cooking. 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 

RHUBARB MARMALADE 

3 pounds rhubarb V2 pound English walnut meats 

2 poimds granulated sugar (chopped fine) 

Juice of 2 lemons 

Skin stalks and cut in small pieces. Cook y^ hour or longer. 

Miss Sarah C. Sower 

APRICOT MARMALADE 

3 pounds dried apricots 3 quarts cold water 

7 pounds granulated sugar 

Wash fruit very thoroughly, cut in small pieces and let soak in the 
water 48 hoiurs. Put on fire and cook 15 minutes. Add sugar and boil 
yi hour. 

Mrs. Walter C. McIntire 

PLUM COMPOTE 

6 pounds plums 2 pounds seeded raisins 

6 pounds sugar 1 pound EngUsh walnut meats (chopped 

6 oranges fine) 

Stone the plums; add sugar, juice of oranges, the rind (which should 
be peeled off very thin and cut in small bits, or ground), seeded raisins 
and walnut meats. Cook as you would marmalade, and put away in 
jars or glasses. 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 



182 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DELICIOUS CONSERVE 

4 quarts large blue plums 1 pound seeded raisins 

Brown sugar . 1 pound figs (cut into dice) 

V2 pound nuts (chopped) 

Cut plums in half, cook slowly until tender. Add equal parts of 

brown sugar and cook until of desired consistency. Just before reaching 
this stage add raisins, figs and nuts. 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 



Cake 



The making of the cake, the heating of the oven and the baking. — Troelus and Cressida. 



(183) 



A general rule for making cake is first to measure accurately. Mix 
in bowl (not tin) and use a wooden spoon. Beat yolks and whites of eggs 
separately unless otherwise directed in the recipe. Cream the butter 
before adding sugar, beat them together very light before adding eggs. 
The oven must be ready as soon as cake is mixed. Do not jar it by 
opening oven door. Be sure it is done, then turn out on a sieve and leave 
till cold.— (Ed.) 



ORANGE CAKE 



2 cups sugar 

V2 cup butter (cream together) 
4 eggs (yolks to be used first) 
1 cup milk 



2V2 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder (beaten in 

the stiff whites of the eggs) 
1 orange (grated rind and juice) 



Bake in layer oans in moderate oven. 

Icing 

2Vi cups confectioner's sugar 4 tablespoons cream or milk 

1 orange (grated rind and juice) 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 



1 dozen eggs 
1 poimd flour 
1 pound butter 

1 potmd sugar 

2 pounds raisins 



FRUIT CAKE 

1 teacup molasses 
1 nutmeg 

1 wineglass brandy 
1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in boiling 
water) 
1 pound citron 



Flour the fruit and mix all together except the citron. Put in the 
pan in la3^ers, first a layer of batter, then one of citron, sliced very thin; 
the last layer must be of batter. Bake 5 hotu-s in slow oven. Half 
quantity takes 3 hotu-s to bake, or they can be baked at a baker's shop 
very perfectly at slight cost. 

This has been tried and proved, being an old family recipe not to be 
found in any cook book that I have ever seen. 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 

(185) 



186 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FRUIT CAKE 

V2 pound butter Vi pound candied or preserved apricots 

V2 pound pulverized sugar Vi pound candied or preserved pineapple 

8 eggs y^ pound candied orange and lemon 
1/2 pound sifted flour peel 

34 pound raisins 1 nutmeg (grated) 

34 pound Sultana ^^ ounce mace 

Vx pound citron Vx ounce cinnamon 

Va pound candied or preserved cherries V2 ounce cloves 

Vi pound candied or preserved gages 1/2 gill Jamaica rum 

Vz gill brandy 

Stem and seed the raisins, pick over sultanas, shred the orange and 
lemon peel and citron very fine, cut remaining fruit into tiny dice, beat 
the butter to a cream, add sugar gradually and give a thorough beating. 
Beat eggs (without separating) until creamy, add them to butter and 
sugar, then gradually add the fioiir; beat well. Mix all the fruit together 
and flour it well, add the spices to the batter, add the fruit, mix thoroughly, 
add the rum and brandy, mix again. Line around straight-sided cake pan 
with buttered paper, turn in the mixture; bake in a very slow oven 4>^ 
hours; when done take from pan and let stand over night to cool; next 
day mix 1 pint champagne, yi pint best brandy, 1 gill strawberry syrup 
together, stand cake in a stone butter pot and pour over it the brandy 
mixture, paste top of pot over with paper, put on cover, stand in cool 
place one month; at the end of that time remove paper, turn the cake, 
paste top over again with paper, put lid on and let stand another month 
and it is ready for use. 

This makes a 7-poimd cake and is excellent. 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 

FRUIT CAKE 

1 pound butter 1 glass apple jelly 

1 pound sugar 2 pounds seeded raisins 

10 eggs 2 pounds currants 

1 quart sifted flour 1 pound chopped dates 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 pound candied shredded citron peel 

1 tablespoon mixed spices 

Cream butter with sugar; add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, sifted 
flour, baking powder, apple jelly, raisins, currants, chopped dates, candied 
shredded citron peel, mixed spices, and the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Turn into a buttered and papered cake tin and bake slowly for 4 hours. 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



187 



FRUIT CAKE 



1 pound butter 

1 pound sugar 

12 eggs (beaten separately) 

1 cup molasses 

1 pound sifted flour 

1 cup sherry wine 
1/2 cup brandy 

2 pounds soft figs 

3 povmds stoned raisins 
2 pounds currants 

1 tablespoon 



1/2 pound citron (cut in very thin strips) 
Vi poimd candied orange peel 
yx pound candied lemon peel 

2 lemons (grated rind) 

1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 

3 grated nutmegs 

1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

2 lemons (juice) 
1 orange (juice) 
Vi teaspoon soda 

(small) groimd mace 



Rub butter and sugar together, stir in well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
then add flour, stirring well, then well-beaten whites of eggs; now add 
molasses, sherry, brandy, lemon juice, spices, and soda dissolved in a 
little water. Now add the raisins and ourants, grated rind of lemon, 
and candied peel, cut fine. Line 2 two-quart pans with greased writing 
paper. First pour a layer of batter into the pan, then place a layer of 
soft whole figs (if hard, soak in the wine two or three days), then another 
layer of the batter, then a layer of citron, then more batter, another layer 
of figs and another of batter. This should be baked in a moderate oven 
for 4 hotirs. 

A recipe I have frequently used and foimd excellent. 

Countess of Santa Eulalia 



MRS. S. RHINE'S FRUIT CAKE 



4 pounds raisins (seeded) 

2 pounds Sultana raisins 

2 povmds currants 

IV2 pounds citron 

2 pounds light-brown sugar 

IV2 pounds butter 

2 pounds flour 



1/2 pint New Orleans molasses 
2 gills brandy 
2 gills rose water 
15 eggs 

1 teaspoon ground mace 

2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
2 teaspoons groimd allspice 

2 teaspoons ground cloves 



Wash and dry the fruit, cut citron ver>^ thin and small. Mix sugar, 
butter and yolks of eggs well, then add fruit and half the flour. Add the 
liquids, the rest of the flour and spices; last the whites of eggs, beaten 
Hght. Line 3 pans with well-greased paper (using lard to grease the 
paper). Bake in a slow oven about 4 hours; turn occasionally. Cover 
with paper if they get too dark on top. 

Mrs. Thomas Shalcross 



188 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



FRUIT CAKE 



1 pound butter 
1 pound brown sugar 
1 pound flour 
10 eggs 

1 pound citron 

2 pounds cxirrants 

3 pounds raisins 

V4 pound orange peel 



Vi pound lemon peel 

1 pound preserved cherries 

1 nutmeg (grated) 

1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

y-i tablespoon ground mace 

y-i tablespoon ground cloves 

1 wineglass Madeira wine 

1 wineglass brandy 



Steep the spices in the brandy over night. Creani the butter and 
sugar. Add the j^olks of eggs and beat well. Add the spices, the fruit, 
whites of eggs (well beaten) and then the fioiir. Bake in a stead}- oven 
4 hours. 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 



1 poimd butter 

1 pound sugar 

12 eggs 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon nutmeg 

1 tablespoon allspice 

1 tablespoon (scant) cloves 

1 tablespoon (scant) mace 



MY FRUIT CAKE 

11/2 pounds citron 
\y-i poimds raisins 
IV2 pounds currants 

1 poimd floixr 

4 ounces blanched almonds (grated) 
4 wineglasses orange juice 

2 gills brandy 

V2 tumbler molasses 
1 teaspoon soda 



Beat butter well wdth the sugar. Add graduall}?- the eggs, well beaten 
separately, then mix in the spices and the fniit. Use part of flour to 
sprinkle on the fruit. Flour well or it will settle at the bottom. 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 



FRUIT CAKE 



13 eggs 


34 pound citron 


IV2 pounds sugar 


V4 pint brandy 


ll^ poimds flour (browned) 


Cloves 


IV4 pounds butter 


Cinnamon 


3V4 poimds raisins 


Mace 


2y2 pounds currants 


Nutmeg 



Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 



BOOKOFRECIPES 189 

AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR REAL FRUIT CAKE 

2 cups soft white sugar 1 pound currants 

2 to 3 cups butter and lard mixed y\ nutmeg 

4 cups flour 1 teaspoon ground cloves 

3 cups buttermilk 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 pound seeded raisins 1 tablespoon (scant) baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

If desired, a wineglass of brandy, rum or anything of this character 
may be added to keep the cake moist. 

Mrs. James B. Thomas 



FRUIT COOKIES 

1 cup molasses 1 cup raisins 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup currants 

1 cup nut meats 1 cup dates 

Vz cup sour cream or cold coffee Vi pound citron (cut fine) 

3 cups flour (more may be necessary) Vi pound lemon peel (cut fine) 

1 teaspoon soda Vi pound orange peel (cut fine) 

2 eggs or 4 yolks Spices 

Make the mixture so stiff that when you drop it by spoonfuls on pan 
it will stand up in little rough balls. Place them so that they may spread 
in baking without running together. Bake in moderate oven 10 or 15 
minutes. 

We always make these at Thanksgiving and Christmas. 

Mrs. Grace S. Williams, 
President, Bristol Travel Club, Bristol, Pa. 



SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs y-i weight in flour 

Full weight in sugar 

Beat whites light and put in sugar; beat very light; then beat yolks 
light and put them in; then 2 tablespoons of hot water and flavoring; 
beat well, then stir in flour very lightly and bake in moderate oven about 
30 minutes. The secret of this cake is the very vigorous beating before 
the flour is added, and then simply folding in the flour very lightly without 
any beating, and baking immediately. 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 



190 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs (weigh in shells) The full weight in sugar 
V^ weight in flour Rind and juice of lemon 

Beat eggs separately, then mix eggs together. Cover sugar with 
water and boil 5 minutes. Pour sugar slowly in the eggs and beat until 
cold. Add lemon; fold flour in gently. A larger cake can be made in 
same manner by using any number of eggs. 

Mrs. William S. Pilling 

SPONGE CAKES 

5 eggs 1 lemon (juice) 

1 cup and 1 tablespoon sugar Vz teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup, less 1 tablespoon flour A pinch of salt 

Separate the eggs, adding half the sugar to the yolks and the other 
half to the whites, beating until very light. Mix together, adding the 
flour, lemon juice, baking powder and salt. Bake in small patty pans. 

Mrs. George S. Matlack 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

3 eggs 4 tablespoons water 

1 cup sugar 1 large cup flour 

2 large teaspoons yeast powder 

Mix yolks, sugar, water together; add whites and flour — with yeast 
powder in the flour. Bake in layers. 

Cream for Cake 

1 egg Vz cup cream, or milk 
1/2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon of flavor 

Mix well, boil until it thickens. Cool cream before using. 

Mrs. Charles H. Woolley 

NEVER-FAILING SPONGE CAKE 

5 eggs Vi cup boiling water 

2 cups sugar V2 teaspoon cream of tartar 
2 cups flour Vz lemon (juice) 

Beat yolks first. Add cream of tartar to the well beaten whites and 
fold in lemon juice in the cake batter. 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 



BOOK OF RECIPES 191 

SPONGE CAKE 

6 eggs Full weight in sugar 

V2 weight in flour 1 lemon 

Mix the well-beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, then lemon juice and rind 
(grated), then stiffly beaten whites of eggs, cutting in flour last of all, 
with wooden ladle. Do not stir or beat the sponge, but cut it across and 
back until flour is absorbed. This makes a delicious sticky cake and not 
a dry choky one. Bake in turk's-head pan in ordinarily hot oven. 

Mrs. Henry T. Dechert 



"IDLEWILD" CELEBRATED SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs Full weight of eggs in sugar 

V^ weight of eggs in flour 1 lemon 

Beat whites thoroughly; add yolks, one at a time (do not beat them 
first); continue beating; add sugar gradually, beating all the time; juice 
and rind of lemon; small quantity of cold water (1 teaspoon of water 
to each yolk) ; lastly, flour stirred in carefully. 

Miss Mary Janney 

SPONGE CAKE 

10 eggs 1/2 pound flour (sifted) 

1 poimd sugar 2 lemons 

Separate eggs, beating whites stiff; to this add sugar, then yolks of 
eggs that have been beaten light, then rind of 2 lemons and juice of one, 
and lastly the flour. This is enough for two cakes. 

Miss Edith Sellers Bunting 

SPONGE CAKE 

10 eggs V^ potmd flour 

1 pound granulated sugar 1 lemon (rind and juice) 

1 teaspoon vinegar 

Beat the whites of eggs very light, add the yolks one at a time, add 
gradually the sugar, lemon juice and vinegar, beating all the time. Then 
add very gently the flour, well sifted. Bake in a cool oven. If you like 
the crumbly crust, dust with pulverized sugar before baking. 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 



192 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs Full weight of eggs in pulverized sugar 

V2 weight of eggs in fioixr 1 lemon 

Sift flour three times. Sift sugar twice. Beat yolks and sugar 
together and add 2 tablespoons of hot water (not boiling); add lemon 
juice and grated rind; add flour. Beat whites stiff and add to the mix- 
ture. Bake in 2 layers, or in small cakes. 

Frosting for Layer Sponge Cake 

Whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff, and add as much pulverized sugar as 
they will take. Place a thin layer between the cakes and cover the cake 
on top and sides. Miss Maude G. Hopkins 

SPONGE CAKE 

10 eggs 1/2 pound flour 

1 pound sugar 1 gill water 

2 lemons 

Pour the water on the sugar and heat until it commences to boil. 
Break eggs in a large bowl. Pour boiling sugar on eggs as you start beat- 
ing them. Beat this mixture for fully 20 minutes, until it is cool and very 
light. Now beat in the juice of 2 lemons and rind of 1. Then stir in the 
flour slowly, sifting it very gradually. Bake in a very slow oven about 
45 minutes. If icing is not desired, dust pulverized sugar on the cakes 
as they are put into the oven to improve the crust. 

Miss Sarah Sellers Bunting 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 ounce chocolate V^ cup milk 

V2 cup butter 1 y^ cups pastry flour 

1 Vz cups sugar 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

4 eggs Vanilla to taste 

Dissolve the chocolate and add 5 tablespoons boiling water. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add the yolks of eggs; stir well, add a little of the 
milk. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, add to the butter, sugar 
and yolks, and beat until very light. Add the rest of the milk, the vanilla 
and chocolate. Fold in the flour, to which has been added the baking 
powder. Lastly, add the stiff whites of the eggs. Bake 45 minutes. 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 



BOOK OF RECIPES 193 



SPONGE CAKE 

5 eggs 1/2 pound pulverized sugar 

V4 pound flour 1/2 lemon 

Whites and yolks of eggs, beaten separately, then together. Add 
sugar; beat until sugar is dissolved. Sift in flour, stirring lightly; add 
juice of half a lemon. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. John Gibson 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

Va pound butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

V2 cup sugar 3 eggs 

3 cups (small) flour 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter, eggs and sugar to a cream. Then add milk and 
flour, and flavor. When well mixed add baking powder. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. 

Chocolate Icing 
V4 cake Baker's chocolate 1 egg 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup milk 

Butter the size of a walnut 

Mix chocolate, vanilla, egg and milk together, put in double boiler, 
then add the butter. Let chocolate boil until it drops smooth from spoon. 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

V2 cup butter 3 eggs 

IV2 cups sugar 2V2 teaspoons baking powder 

3/4 cup milk Vanilla 

2 cups flour Salt 

Mix butter, sugar, milk, flour, yolks of 3 eggs, white of 1 egg, baking 
powder, salt and vanilla. Sufficient for four layers. 

Filling 
1 cup milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup granulated sugar 1/2 cake Baker's chocolate 

1 teaspoon butter 1 egg (yolk) 

Let milk boil, then stir in the cornstarch dissolved in a little milk. 
When at the boiling point, add the beaten yolk of the egg. Dissolve choco- 
late in double boiler and add slowly. Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 

13 



194 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 squares chocolate 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

y-i cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

V-fi cups sugar 4 eggs 

13^ cups flour V2 cup milk 

Dissolve the chocolate in 5 tablespoons of boiling water. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add beaten yolks of eggs, then the milk. 
Add chocolate and flour. Give the whole a vigorous beating. Add 
baking powder, then the vanilla. Finally, stir in lightly the whites well 
beaten. Bake in 3 layers. Frost with chocolate. 

Mrs. William S. Pilling 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 



First Part 



1 cup brown sugar 2 cups flour 

y-i cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs (yolks) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1^ cup cream or milk Pinch of salt 

Mix butter and eggs, add yolks, milk, chocolate mixture, flour, baking 
powder, vanilla, salt, whites of the eggs and bake. 

Second Part 

1 cup brown sugar V\ pound chocolate 

1/2 cup cream or milk 

Boil until well mixed. Stand to cool, then spread on cake. 

Miss Jennie S. Potts 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 cup milk V2 pound butter 

6 eggs (beaten separately) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 pound pulverized sugar 1 pound flour (sifted twice) 

Mix yolks of eggs and sugar together; add butter, then milk, flour 
and baking powder; fold in whites of eggs last. Bake in 3 layers. 

Icing 

1 pound confectioner's sugar V2 teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 squares melted chocolate Enough cream to make it thick enough 

to spread on cake 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



195 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

14 cup milk 4 eggs (beaten separately) 

V2 cake Baker's chocolate ly^ cups flour 

21/2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons (heaping) baking powder 

1 cup (scant) butter 1 cup milk 

Melt Yi cup of the sugar with the milk and chocolate. Beat very 
light the balance of sugar, butter, eggs, flour, baking powder and milk. 
Add melted chocolate last. Bake in 3 layers. 

Icing 

1 cup granulated sugar 3 tablespoons water 

2 eggs (whites) 

Boil sugar and water. Beat into whites of eggs. 

Mrs. Edward H. Bonsall 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

Vz cup butter 3 cups flour 

1 cup milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Bake in 3 or 4 layers. 

Frosting and Filling 

y^ cake (full) Baker's chocolate 5 tablespoons milk 

1 cup pulverized sugar 

Scrape the chocolate and put it on the back of the range to melt. 
When melted stir in the milk and sugar, and let it boil 5 minutes, stirring 
constantly to keep from burning. Spread on top and between layers. 
It does not thicken with cold. 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 

CHOCOLATE BROWNIES 

2 eggs (weU beaten) 1/2 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 2 squares melted chocolate 

1/2 cup melted butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup walnuts (cut fine) 

Bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes; bake in a large sheet and 
cut while hot. Mrs. Charles Z. Tryon 



196 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



2 cups brown sugar 
1 cup baking molasses 
1 cup lard and butter 

1 cup milk 
31/2 cups flour 

2 eggs 



GINGER CAKES 

1 dessertspoon soda 
1 dessertspoon cloves 
1 dessertspoon cinnamon 

1 dessertspoon allspice 
1/2 teaspoon ginger 

2 nutmegs 
A pinch of salt 



Bake in patty pans as needed, 
if kept in a cool place. 



The dough will keep a long while 
Mrs. George S. Matlack 



3 cups flour 
1/2 cup cream 

1 tablespoon lard 

2 tablespoons butter 



GINGER BREAD 

1 cup molasses 
1/2 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
3 eggs 
1 tablespoon ginger 



Beat yolks of eggs with lard and butter. Dissolve soda in a little 
warm water and mix with molasses, which is added to eggs. Then the 
milk, and last, the white of eggs, which has been beaten stiff. Bake in a 
moderate oven about 45 minutes. 

Miss Agnes Preston, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 

GOOD SOFT GINGER BREAD 



1 cup rich milk or cream 

V2 cup butter 

1 cup brown sugar 



1 cup black molasses 

2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda 



Make a thin batter. A good "pinch" of ginger, cinnamon, allspice 
and cloves must be sifted in the flour. 

Miss Mary Janney 



SOFT GINGER BREAD 



1 cup sugar 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 

1 cup buttermilk 

1 cup butter 

2 eggs 



1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in hot water) 
1 teaspoon ciimamon 
Vi teaspoon allspice 
1 tablespoon ginger 
3V2 cups flour 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



197 



GINGER BREAD 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons ginger 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Vs cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

% cup butter 2 teaspoons soda 

21/2 cups flour 1 cup boiling water 

Rub butter and sugar together. Add eggs (well beaten), molasses, 
spices and flour, and last the hot water. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. Nicholas Mitchell 



GINGER BREAD 



1 cup lard and butter (mixed and 

melted) 

2 eggs 

1 big cup sour milk 

V2 cup molasses (Porto Rico molasses, 
if possible) 



Vi cup brown sugar mixed with 

molasses 
1 cup seeded raisins (chopped) 
1/2 teaspoon ginger 
A little nutmeg 
Flour to make batter not too stiff 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 



MOTHER'S HARD GINGERBREADS 



Vi poimd butter 

1 1/2 poimds flour 

V2 pound brown sugar 

2 tablespoons (large) ginger 



1 teaspoon groimd cloves 
1 teaspoon groimd cinnamon 
1 pint molasses 
1 teaspoon (small) soda 
1 tablespoon vinegar 

Rub butter into flotur and brown sugar, rolled fine; add ginger, 
cloves and cinnamon. Stir in molasses and soda dissolved in a little 
vinegar (a tablespoonful is enough). Make into dough as for cookies, 
and roll in as little flour as possible when cutting out. 

Mrs. Effingham Perot 



GINGER BREAD 



y^ teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon (small) salt 

2 cups flour 
1 cup hot water 

1 teaspoon (even) baking soda 

After the first nine ingredients are mixed, add hot water, with bak- 
ing soda dissolved in it. Grease pan and bake. It makes 18 gems. 

Mrs. E. Boyd Weitzel 



2 eggs 

V2 cup (small) brown sugar 

1 cup molasses 

Butter the size of an egg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 



198 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



SOFT GINGER CAKES 

1 cup New Orleans molasses Small pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon ground ginger 

1 cup water Melted butter the size of an egg 

2 cups (scant) flour 

Stir the soda in the molasses, add the water, salt, ginger, butter and 
flour. Bake in a moderately hot oven in gem pans. 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 

SPONGE GINGER BREAD 

2 cups molasses 1 cup melted butter 
2 teaspoons soda 1 cup sour milk 

1 dessertspoon ginger 1 teaspoon soda 

4 eggs Flour 

Sift soda and ginger in molasses. Stir to a cream, then add well 
beaten eggs, butter, sour milk in which is dissolved the soda. Mix all 
together, then add flour to the consistency of pound cake. 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 

GINGER POUND CAKE 

1 cup molasses 1 tablespoon ginger 

1 cup sour milk 1 tablespoon ciimamon 

1 cup sugar A little salt 

1 cup butter and lard mixed 3 cups flour 



3 eggs 



Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 



CHRISTMAS GINGER CAKES 

7 pounds flour iVz nutmegs (grated) 

ly-i. pounds lard 2 ounces ground cloves 

V2 pound butter 1 pound brown sugar 

V4 pound ground ginger IV2 quarts New Orleans molasses 

V4 pound cinnamon 1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 teaspoon salt 

Rub flour, sugar, spices, salt, lard and butter together, and add 
molasses, into which soda has been beaten. Knead well, roll out and bake. 
These are better after several weeks. 

Mrs. Mary C. D. Geisler 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



199 



1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 



GINGER SNAPS 

V2 cup butter 
V2 cup lard 
4 cups flour 



Dissolve soda in molasses and let it stand in a bowl of good size. 
Rub butter and lard into flour. Into this mix: 



1 cup brown sugar 

1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon 

1 teaspoon ginger 



1/2 teaspoon cloves 

V2 teaspoon allspice 

V^ teaspoon grated nutmeg 



When thoroughly mixed add the molasses and baking soda. Knead 
thoroughly into a solid mass and put in the refrigerator over night. Take 
a small piece of the dough, roll in powdered sugar, very thin, and cut 
with round cutter. Do not put too closely in the baking pan. Do not 
grease the pan. If properly rolled and baked they will keep for weeks and 
not become stale. 

This recipe has been used for thirty-six years in our family, and has 
never failed to please every one. 

Mrs. Kate H. Rowland 



GINGER SNAPS 



2 cups molasses 
2 cups sugar 
iVa cups lard 
Flour 



1 cup water 

1 tablespoon (heaping) soda 

1 tablespoon ginger 

A Uttle salt 



Heat molasses and lard very hot. Mix and make stiff dough. Let 
stand over night ; roll out thin and bake in hot oven. Will keep 
indefinitely. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 



GINGER SNAPS, OR MOLASSES SNAPS 

1 quart New Orleans molasses IV^ pints milk 

34 potmd butter 3 tablespoons ginger 

4 cups sugar 3 tablespoons baking soda 

Enough flotir to mix, not too stiff 

Let dough stand 24 hours before rolling out and baking. 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 



200 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



2V2 cups rolled oats 

2V2 teaspoons baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon salt 



3 even tablespoons butter 
1 cup sugar 
3 eggs 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



Cream butter and sugar. Then rub in eggs, one at a time, then the 
oats and salt, and vanilla, and last of all the baking powder. Drop a 
half teaspoonful to each cooky on buttered tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Remove from tin immediately when taken from oven. They take 
from 6 to 8 minutes to cook. Miss Agnes Preston, 

The New Century Club Lunch Room 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



2^/4 cups dry rolled oats 
1 cup granulated sugar 



2 teaspoons melted butter 
2 eggs 



Mix the dry ingredients together, then stir in the eggs and butter. 
Drop by dessertspoonfuls 1>^ inches apart on a buttered sheet. 

This recipe has been used for many years and not found wanting. 

Miss Elizabeth A. Atkinson 



1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 

2 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



A pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

2V2 cups rolled oats 

1 tablespoon water (if too dry) 



Take out of pan while hot and soft. 



Mrs. George McEIeown 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



2 eggs 

2 cups light brown sugar 

34 cup melted butter or lard 

V2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 nutmeg 



3 cups dry oatmeal 

2 tablespoons hot water 

2 cups flour, sifted with 

1 teaspoon soda and 

2 teaspoons cream tartar 



Do not roll. Either drop or mould into small cakes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, being careful not to over-bake. 
Used at Sleighton Farm, Darlington, Pa. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 



BOOK OF RECIPES 201 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup (scant) sugar IV2 cups oatmeal (uncooked) 

1 tablespoon butter 2 eggs 

iVi teaspoons vanilla 

Makes 12 cookies, medium size. Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 

NUT OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup butter V2 cup chopped nut meats 

14 cup lard 1 1/2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar V2 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon soda 

S tablespoons milk 3^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 3/4 cups rolled oats V^ teaspoon cloves 

Vz cup raisins y-i teaspoon allspice 

Cream butter and lard together, and add gradually, while beating 
constantly, sugar; then add Qgg, well beaten, milk, rolled oats, raisins 
(seeded and cut in pieces) and nut meats chopped. Mix and sift flour 
with remaining ingredients and add to first mixture. 

Drop from tip of spoon on a buttered sheet, 1 inch apart, and bake 
in a moderate oven 15 minutes. Mrs. William Wallace 

OATMEAL MACAROONS 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon (level) butter 

2 eggs (well beaten) 1 teaspoon baking powder 
21/2 cups rolled oats V4 teaspoon salt 

Drop the size of a penny on greased pans. Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 

SCOTTISH FANCIES 

1 egg 1 cup rolled oats 

1/2 cup sugar V^ teaspoon salt 

% tablespoon melted butter 14 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat egg until light, add gradually sugar and then stir in remaining 
ingredients. Drop mixture by teaspoonfuls on a thoroughly greased 
inverted dripping pan, 1 inch apart. Spread into circular shape with a 
case knife just dipped in cold water. Bake in a moderate oven until 
delicately browned. To give variety use yi cup rolled oats and fill cup 
with shredded cocoanut. Mrs. William S. Pilling 



202 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

EGOLESS, BUTTERLESS, MILKLESS CAKE 

1 cup brown sugar 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Va cup ^^^ V2 teaspoon (scant) cloves 

Vi teaspoon nutmeg 

Boil all together for 3 minutes, then add — 

1 teaspoon soda 2 cups flour 

Boiling water V2 teaspoon baking powder 

Dissolve soda in a little boiling water. Add floiir and baking pow- 
der (mixed in the last cup of flour). Bake in a slow oven. 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 

EGGLESS, BUTTERLESS, MILKLESS CAKE 

Put into a saucepan the following: 

1 cup brown sugar Va cup lard 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups raisins V2 teaspoon cloves 

Pinch of salt 

Boil all together for 3 minutes. Let cool. Then add 1 teaspoon of 
soda, dissolved in hot water ; 2 cups of flour in which }4 teaspoon of baking 
powder has been sifted. Bake in moderate oven. 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 

EGGLESS CAKE 

2 cups dark brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups sour milk V4 cup butter 

2 cups flour 2 cups seeded raisins 

Yz nutmeg (grated) 1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 

V4 teacup boiling water 

Put soda in just before putting in pan. Don't bake in very hot oven. 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 

WHITE CAKE 

2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 
V2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

3 eggs 1 V2 teaspoons baking powdi 

Flavor with vanilla or lemon. 



ler 



Miss Mary L. Roberts 



BOOK OF RECIPES 203 

AN EGOLESS SPICE CAKE 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 cup sour milk into which has been V^ cup raisins 

beaten 1 teaspoon baking soda dis- V^ cup currants 

solved in V2 cup of hot water 3 cups flour 

Bake 1 hour in slow oven. Mrs. Lewis R. Dick 

COOKIES WITHOUT EGGS 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 

l^A cups sugar hot water 

2/3 cup butter and lard Flour to make a soft dough 

1 teaspoon salt Flavor to taste 

Roll out and cut with cutter. Sprinkle sugar over the top and bake 
in quick oven. 

This recipe has been in the family over eighty years. 

Mrs. Caleb S. Middleton 

BOSTON WHITE CAKE 

11/2 cups sugar 2 cups (small) flour 

1/2 cup butter V4 teaspoon soda 

V2 cup milk y^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

5 eggs (whites only) 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Add eggs last, beaten till very light. This makes 1 loaf and is 
dehcious. Mrs. Frank Battles 

WHITE CAKE 

4 eggs (whites only) 2 cups sugar 

1 cup milk (ruiming over) 2V2 cups flour 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

If you want it extra nice, use 1 cup of cornstarch, instead of 1 cup 
of flour. 

If one prefers, bake this cake in layers, use any filling. One good 
one as follows: 

1 pound figs (chopped fine) 1 cup sugar 

Vz cup water 

Put on back of stove and mash with spoon until it forms a smooth 
paste. Mrs. Matthew James Grier 



204 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



Vz cup butter (creamed) 

V2 cup sugar 

1/2 cup water (tepid) 



MARBLE CAKE 

Light Part 

1 cup flour 

2 eggs (whites) 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



4 eggs (yolks) 
1 cup sugar 
V4 cup butter 
Vi cup water 
1 cup flour 



Dark Part 

2 squares chocolate (dissolved in 4 
tablespoons boiling water, stir until 
smooth) 

1/2 cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



part. 



When putting in pan alternate one spoonful of light and one of dark 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 



SPICE COOKIES 



S cups flotir 
1 cup lard 
1 V2 cups molasses 
1 cup sugar 
1/2 teaspoon salt 



V4 teaspoon baking powder 
2 tablespoons cinnamon 
1 tablespoon ground ginger 
1 teaspoon ground cloves 
1 tablespoon allspice 



Put flour, salt, baking powder and lard in a bowl and stir thoroughly. 
Add sugar, molasses and spices. Knead slightly on a board, then roll 
out thin and cut with a cake cutter, and bake quickly. 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 



SPICE CAKE 



1 cup butter 

2 cups sugar 
5 eggs 

4 cups flour 

1 cup syrup molasses 



1 cup cream 

2 teaspoons ginger 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon cloves 

2 teaspoons baking powder 



Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks of eggs, then cream, mo- 
lasses, spices and flour with the baking powder in it. Lastly add the 
beaten whites of eggs and bake in a moderate oven ^ of an hour. 

Miss Sarah Sellers Bunting 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



205 



1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup molasses 

1 cup chopped raisins 
1/2 cup butter 

2 eggs 



SPICE CAKES 

1 cup sour cream 

2 teaspoons (level) soda 
1 tablespoon ginger 

14 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
5 cups (level) flour 



Drop in small spoonfuls on tins and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. Howard Marshall 



. cup molasses 

1 cup butter 

V2 cup brown sugar 
V2 cup strong coffee 
2 1/2 cups flour 

2 eggs 



COFFEE CAKE 

1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1 pound seeded raisins 
Vi pound chopped citron 
1 teaspoon (large) cloves 
1 teaspoon allspice 
4 teaspoons cinnamon 
V2 teaspoon nutmeg 



This cake is almost as rich as fruit cake, and is improved by a little 
brandy or wine. Mrs. Richard Peters 



1 cup molasses 

1 cup butter 

1/2 cup brown sugar 
V2 cup strong coffee 

2 eggs 



COFFEE CAKE 

y-i teaspoon soda 
1 pound raisins 
14 pound citron 
2y2 cups flour 
A little brandy or wine 
Cinnamon and cloves to taste 



Mrs. John H. Jopson 



1 cup butter 

2 cups brown sugar 
1 cup molasses 

1 cup strong coffee 
4 cups (scant) flour 
4 eggs 
1 teaspoon soda 



COFFEE SPICE CAKE 

1 teaspoon allspice 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 teaspoon mace 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Vi teaspoon cloves 
V2 pound raisins 
V2 pound currants 
V^ pound citron 



This makes 2 small loaves. 



Bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 



206 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TEA CAKE 

2 pounds flour Vz pound butter 

1 cup sugar V2 pint milk 

7 eggs 2 cups cleansed currants 

1 yeast cake (compressed) 

Dissolve 1 yeast cake in a quarter of a cup of warm (not hot) water 
and then stir in sufficient flour to make a dough. Knead this into a small 
biscuit, and with a sharp knife make a cross almost through, and drop 
it — cut side up — in a good-sized pitcher, nearly filled with warm (not hot) 
water. Stand in a warm place 10 minutes. 

Cover the dough and stand in a warm place 5 hours. Line pan with 
greased paper. Cover and stand until very light (about 1 hour). Bake 
40 minutes. This will make 2 cakes. 

Cut off the top of the cake, and then another slice in the same way, 
and so on until the whole cake is cut. Now toast on both sides and 
spread with butter. Put the cake together again, and then cut across 
like this +. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 



TEA CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Flavor with nutmeg 

Bake in tin pans. Put little limips of butter on top and sprinkle 
with granulated sugar and cinnamon before baking. 

Mrs. Harrison Souder 



IRISH TEA CAKE 

4 tablespoons butter Flour enough to make batter 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup milk 

2 eggs (well beaten) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream the butter, then add sugar, flour, eggs and milk, and last 
the baking powder. Bake in very thin layers, and spread each one with 
butter as it comes from the oven hot. Put all together like a layer cake. 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



207 



CINNAMON BUNS 



3 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon salt 

% quart milk 

1 cake compressed yeast 

1 quart water or potato water 

3 pounds flour 



6 eggs (well beaten) 

3 tablespoons (heaping) baking powder 

1 pound butter 

IV2 ounces cinnamon 

Vi pound currants 

1 pound raisins 

5 pounds dark brown sugar 



Butter, sugar, salt; scald the milk, let cool to lukewarm, add yeast 
cake and sufficient water or potato water to make even quart. Pour the 
above into bread mixer, and add flour, turn 5 minutes, set in a warm 
place to rise until morning, then add eggs, baking powder and sufficient 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll to a long length and spread with the 
pound of butter, sprinkle with the cinnamon, currants, raisins and brown 
sugar. Roll and cut as you would jelly roll, bake in slow oven. Turn 
out into platter greased with butter. The syrup that runs into tin, dip 
up with spoon and pour over buns. When cool turn right side up, and 
put the syrup left in the platter over the top of buns. 

Above recipe makes 6 tins of 8 buns each. 

Mrs. John C. Seltzer, 
President, Woman's Club, Reading, Pa. 



Vi pound butter 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

Rind of 1 lemon 
1 pint milk 



MARION FLECK'S CINNAMON BUN 

y-i yeast cake 
Flour 

Pinch of salt 
Brown sugar 
Currants 



Cinnamon 



Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs imseparated, beat. Dis- 
solve yeast cake in a little of the milk, warmed; add milk and yeast cake 
to mixttire, also lemon rind. Stir thoroughly; add enough fiour to make 
a stiff cake batter, but not enough to make bread dough. Allow to rise 
over night. Spread risen dough over a floured board to a thickness of % 
to >2 inch. Spread this liberally with soft butter, brown sugar, currants 
(washed) and cinnamon. With assistance of large knife roll the dough 
up and cut off not thicker than yi inch. Place in well buttered tins which 
have been sprinkled with brown sugar. Or place in gem pans. Allow 
to rise till double its biilk. Bake in slow oven. 

Miss Emma Klahr 



208 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CRULLERS 

IV2 cups sugar 2 cups milk 

3 eggs 14 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 teaspoons baking powder A pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon butter Powdered sugar 

Flour enough to make a smooth dough 

Roll out, cut and drop in boiling lard. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

CRULLERS 

1 cup shortening (half lard, half butter) 1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 cup water 

1 cup milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 

5 eggs Salt 

1 grated nutmeg 2 quarts (about) sifted flour 



Cook in boiling fat. 



Mrs. Henry P. Brown 



CRULLERS 



3 eggs Flour enough to make a stiff batter 

IV2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder V2 cup butter 

Roll, form into rings. Boil in lard. 

Mrs. Charles F. Godshall 

AUNT SARAH'S CRULLERS 

(Can't be beat) 

1 pound sugar 1 cup thick milk 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon bicarbonate of soda 

Butter the size of an egg Cinnamon to taste 

Flour enough to make a soft dough 

Melt butter, beat eggs separately, put soda into the sour milk. Stir 
sugar and yolks of eggs and butter well, then add sour milk, and lastly 
the whites of eggs, and carefully flour to make soft dough. Cut out in 
rings and cook in hot lard. An experienced cook needs no more definite 
directions. 

I enjoy getting into the kitchen on a wet day and doing some of these 
old-time dishes. Dr. Frances N. Baker 



BOOK OF RECIPES 209 

CINNAMON RINGS 

V2 pound butter 2 eggs 

1/2 pound pulverized sugar 1 pound flour 

1 teaspoon (small) cinnamon Granulated sugar 

Cream butter and pulverized sugar, add cinnamon, then eggs, beaten 
very light, and flour. Roll rather thin with a doughnut cutter, sprinkle 
with granulated sugar and bake light brown in a rather quick oven. 

Mrs. William A. Flanigen 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 quart milk 2 white potatoes (boiled and grated 
% poimd (scant) butter when cold) 

2 potmds sugar Flour to make a soft dough 
Nutmeg to taste V^ cake yeast 

Mrs. George H. Vanderbeck 

DOUGHNUTS 

2 quarts sifted flour IV2 pints milk 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

W2 cups granulated sugar 1/2 yeast cake 

2 eggs 

Scald milk, melt in it the butter (or other shortening) ; when tepid, 
stir it into the flour mixture and beat hard. Add >^ yeast dissolved in 
J4 cup warm water, and stir again. Let rise 6 hours in warm (not hot) 
place ; then add beaten eggs, stir all well together, and let rise again until 
very light (perhaps 2 hoiirs). Add sufficient flour to roll out, cut in 
diamond-shape strips, or with circular, double-ring cutter; fry in deep, 
smoking-hot fat. Test the heat of the fat by dropping into it a crust 
of bread; if it browns in 1 minute, it is right heat. Care must be taken 
that the cakes do not brown before they are thoroughly cooked. 

Proportions for this recipe for large family. 

Mrs. Eugene H. Austin 

JUMBLES 

6 oimces butter 2 eggs 

6 oimces sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

12 ounces flour Vanilla 

Roll as thin as possible. Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 



210 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 pint milk 3 or 4 eggs 

1/2 pound butter 1 pound sugar 

3 potatoes 2 yeast cakes 

Use half the sugar when sponged, add the other half when ready to 
knead. Keep very warm until ready to fry. Set the sponge about ten 
o'clock if using home-made yeast; if compressed yeast, a little later. 
Scald the milk, melting the butter in it. Boil the potatoes and put 
through patent masher. Pour the milk over the potatoes, stirring slowly. 
Add one-half the sugar, which must be greater in quantity if home-made 
yeast is used. Use flour to make proper consistency. Let rise till eve- 
ning, then add eggs and remaining half of sugar, and knead. In the morn- 
ing, cut into shape and keep very warm till light (2 hours), then fry. Put 
salt in potatoes when boiling. Mix sugar with potatoes while potatoes 
are hot after putting through masher. 

An old and well-tried recipe. Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 

JUMBLES 

1 cup butter 1 egg (beaten whole) 

1 cup sugar iVi cups flour 

Cream sugar and butter, add beaten egg, then slowly add flour 
(sifted). Flavor with rose water, drop from a teaspoon on tin sheet; 
bake in quick oven. Mrs. C. L. Peirce 

CINNAMON NUT CAKES 

V2 pound butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

^^ cup milk 4 eggs (beaten separately) 

1 lemon rind V2 pound pulverized sugar 

Vi pound flour 

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the lemon rind 
grated, the yolks of eggs, then the flour and milk alternately and then 
the baking powder in a little of the flour, and the whites of the eggs. Bake 
in a shallow, long pan (the cake to be about 1 inch thick). Put on top 

when baked: 

1 cup grantilated sugar Vk poimd ground almonds 

A sprinkle of cinnamon 

This is put on when cold, and the cake then cut into diamond shapes. 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



211 



MRS. EDITH C. JAMES' NUT CAKE 

1 cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder (mixed in 
% cup cream the flour) 

4 eggs 1 quart shellbark kernels 

y-i pound raisins 

Flour, nuts and raisins put in last. In these days when shellbarks 
are so scarce I find >2 pound to be sufficient. 

This Nut Cake recipe came to me from my mother, and as she was 
so long a member of the New Century Club, I have given it her name. 

Mrs. William Shewell Ellis 



NUT COOKIES 



2 tablespoons butter 

3/4 cup sugar 

1 egg 

Vi teaspoon salt 



V2 cup flour 
2 tablespoons milk 
Vz cup chopped nuts 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



Cream butter, add sugar and &gg well beaten. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients ; add to the first mixture, and then add milk, nuts and vanilla. 
Drop from a teaspoon on unbuttered sheet, 1 inch apart, and place nut 
on top of each. Bake in a slow oven. Miss Mary S. Parry 

HICKORY NUT KISSES 

5 eggs (whites) 1 pound confectioner's sugar 

1 quart hickory nuts 

Beat eggs very little, only enough to mix them. Put in all the sugar 
at once (powdered sugar will do if sifted as fine as flour) and beat until 
very stiff and stands alone. Fold in nuts that have been broken in half; 
bake in moderate oven. Drop on greased paper — 1 spoonful enough for 
one. When it cracks open and pops up, it is done and will be creamy. 
Take from oven at once. Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 



1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup wfidnut meats (chopped fine) 



WALNUT WAFERS 

Vs teaspoon salt 
3 teaspoons (even) flour 
2 eggs 

Beat the eggs together, add sugar, salt and flour; then the walnuts. 
Mix well together, spread as thin as possible in a buttered pan. Bake in 
a hot oven; cut in squares before cold. Miss Clara Lee Bowman 



212 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

WALNUT WAFERS 

V2 pound brown sugar 3 tablespoons (even) flour 

V2 pound English walnut meats V4 teaspoon baking powder 

(slightly broken, not chopped) Vs teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

Beat eggs well, add sugar, salt and flour, into which baking powder 
has been sifted, and lastly the nuts. Drop a small teaspoonful of the bat- 
ter for each wafer on the weU-buttered pan, and allow plenty of space 
between, as they spread. Bake in a moderate oven and remove from pan 
as soon as baked, as they would stick to the pan. 

Delicious. My friends are always pleased when I serve them. 

Mrs. Thomas Theodore Watson 



PECAN WAFERS 

2 tablespoons (level) butter 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

1/4 cup sugar V2 cup flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

2 tablespoons (scant) milk 1 cup pecan nuts (chopped) 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg to this mixture. Beat 
all together with egg-beater; then add milk, flour and lemon juice. To 
this mixture add pecans. Bake from 12 to 15 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Do not grease the pan, but put the little cakes in with a teaspoon 
about 2 inches apart. These are very delicious for afternoon tea. 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 



BROWN CHRISTMAS COOKIES (GERMAN) 

2 pounds butter 10 cents worth cardamom seed 
21/4 pounds sugar V2 pound blanched almonds 

3 pounds cooking syrup (New Orleans 1 crystallized lemon peel 

molasses) V2 citron peel 

1/2 pound crystallized orange peel Vs pound potash (baking soda) 

8 pounds flour 

Heat and mix the butter, sugar and molasses. Put through the 
grinder (fine) the orange peel, cardamom seed, almonds, lemon peel and 
citron peel. Mix batter and stand over night. Roll about ]4 inch thick, 
cut into cookies, insert half blanched almonds, and bake on tins in moder- 
ate oven. Pack away in stone crocks, and these will last all winter. 

Mrs. William C. Lowry 



BOOK OF RECIPES 213 

CHESTER COUNTY COOKIES 

3 cups sugar 2 eggs 

1 cup sour cream 5 cups flour 

1 cup butter V^ teaspoon (scant) soda 

Mix sugar, cream, butter, eggs, flour, and soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Flavor with vanilla or lemon. Drop in a well-greased pan 
far enough apart to spread. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 

FRENCH COOKIES 

% pound butter 1 pound flour 

2 cups (scant) granulated sugar 1 egg 

Blend butter and sugar, work in flour, drop in 1 egg (or 2 if mixture 
be too dry to hold together). Put on ice over night. 

% pound almonds Sugar 

Sherry wine Cinnamon 

1 egg 

Blanch the almonds, split them in two, wet with sherry and roU in 
mixttu"e of sugar and cinnamon. Take portion of dough out and roll as 
thin as possible, using very little flour. Cut out with heart-shaped cutter. 
When in pan spread cookies with egg (white and yolk beaten together 
very lightly), using back of spoon to spread it on, and then place 3 halves 
of almonds on the center of each cooky, radiating from the center. 

Mrs. William B. Campbell 

ENGLISH CHRISTMAS CAKES 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
% cup butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sour milk (or boiling water) 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

3 eggs 1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in 1 table- 1 cup raisins 

spoon boiling water) 1 cup English walnuts (chopped) 

V4 citron (cut in small pieces) 

Flour to stiffen and drop from a spoon. 

These "Enghsh Christmas Cakes" were served at our Christmas 
Tea, and were delicious. 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox, 
President, The Woman's Club of Phoenixville, Pa. 



214 NEW CENTURY CLUB 



LITTLE CHRISTMAS CAKES 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 coffee cup hickory nuts or English 

2 eggs walnuts (chopped) 
7 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Drop one teaspoonful at a time on greased paper in tin. Bake in 
moderate oven. A raisin, nut meat or frosting can be put in center. 

Mrs. Frederick J. McWade 

SWEDISH COOKIES 

3 cups flour Grated rind of y-i lemon 
1 cup sugar 1 raw egg 

12 ounces butter 3 hard-boiled eggs (yolks) 

Chopped almonds 

Mash hard-boiled yolks through a sieve, add raw &^g and other 
ingredients, mix well with the hand and put on ice for an hour. Roll 
out thin, cut in small shapes, brush with beaten egg, sprinkle with chopped 
almonds mixed with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven, a golden brown. 

Mrs. Caleb J. Milne, Jr. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

1 cup brown sugar (light) 2 teaspoons baking soda (dissolved in 

1/2 cup butter the apple sauce) 

1 1/2 cups apple sauce 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 teaspoon cloves 2 cups flour 

1 cup raisins 

Bake about ^ hour in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

IV2 cups sweetened apple sauce 2 teaspoons soda 

(beaten smooth) 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

% cup lard or drippings (melted) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V-fz cups brown sugar Vz teaspoon cloves 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon allspice 

21/2 cups flour 1 cup raisins 

1 cup currants 

Mix in order given, putting in the yi cup of flour with the fruit. 
Bake in a loaf for 2 hours in a rather slow oven. Test with a straw. 
This may be made from dried-apple sauce. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 



BOOK OF RECIPES 215 

POUND CAKE 

1 pound sugar 1 pound flour 

% pound butter 10 eggs (leaving out the yolks of 2) 

Beat eggs and sugar until very light. Beat butter and flour to a 
soft cream. Add eggs and sugar to butter and flour. Bake very slowly 
2 hours. 

This I consider the prize of my private collection and the easiest 
and best recipe for pound cake I have known. 

Mrs. Mahlon B. Paxson 



BOSTON POUND CAKE 

1 pound sugar 1 cup cream 

3/4 pound butter Peel of 2 lemons (grated) 

1 pound flour Juice of 1 lemon 

6 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

Beat the butter and sugar very light, add gradually the cream and 
lemons, yi of the flour. Beat the eggs separately, and stir y^, 2X 2l time 
after mixing well; add the rest of the flour, beat all together 10 or 15 
minutes, then put in the soda; not much beating after that. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 



ORANGE CAKE 

2V^ cups flour 5 eggs (the white of 1 to be used for 

2 cups sugar icing) 

1 cup butter 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon soda 

1 orange (juice and grated rind) 



Save a little rind for icing. 



Icing 



1 cup sugar y^ cup hot water 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar 1 egg (white) 



Stir cream of tartar in sugar dry; add hot water. Boil 6 minutes, 
or until it "hairs." Pour slowly into beaten white of egg, beating all the 
time. Add flavor; beat until thick enough to spread. 

Mrs. Charles Z. Tryon 



216 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE 

1 cocoanut (small) 6 eggs (whites) 

3 cups flour y-i teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

Put Yi of the grated cocoanut in last. Mrs. Hugh McIlvain 

ORANGE CAKE 

Yolks of 5 eggs 2 cups flour 

Whites of 4 eggs (3 whites will answer 2 teaspoons baking powder 

if eggs be scarce) 1 lemon (juice and grated rind) 

2 cups sugar V2 cup cold water 

Beat the yolks until light, then with the sugar, the rind and juice 
of the lemon. Sift the flour and beat into the mixture, alternating with 
the water. Add the baking powder in the second cup of flour. Lastly 
the well-beaten whites. Bake in 3 layers. 

Orange Icing 

2 eggs (whites) 1 orange (rind and juice) 

1 pound pulverized sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs until light, adding pulver zed sugar (about 
1 pound). Grate the yellow skin of 1 orange (though better with the rind 
of 2 oranges). Beat the rind and juice into the whites of egg alternately 
with the sugar. Allow to stand awhile in order to stiffen somewhat. 
Spread between the layers and over the top. 

Mrs. Robert P, Brown 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE 

1 quart sifted flour 1 tablespoon white sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons butter 
1 teaspoon salt Milk 

Mix flour, baking powder, salt and sugar thoroughly. Then add 
butter and sweet milk sufficient to make soft dough. Roll out in 3 layers, 
slightly butter each layer, lay one on top of the other, bake 22 minutes; 
separate the layers while warm, place bottom crust on plate, cover with 
sliced orange, sprinkle thickly with sugar, lay on second crust, and pro- 
ceed as before; dust top with powdered sugar. 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 



BOOK OF RECIPES 217 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

Make 4 layers of rich white cake. Make a frosting (boiled) of 4 
cups granidated sugar and the beaten whites of 4 eggs. Divide this frost- 
ing into 4 equal parts. 

First portion. — Stir 1 jQnely grated cocoanut and the pulp of 1 orange 
rubbed through a sieve. Spread on first layer of cake. 

Second portion, — Stir 1 cup of English walnuts, chopped fine; 1 cup 
of chopped raisins; 1 tablespoon of grated chocolate. Place on 2d layer. 

Third portion. — Stir 1 cup of chopped almonds; 1 cup of citron 
chopped fine; and place on 3d layer of cake. 

Fourth portion. — Should be spread smooth and white, thick and soft 
on top of cake with cocoanut, almonds and raisins. 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 

DEVIL CAKE 

1 cup sugar Vz cup boiling water 

1/2 cup (small) butter 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon (level) soda 
1/2 cup sour milk 1 % cups flour 

3 tablespoons (level) cocoa (put in last) 

If you like it thin, bake in long gingerbread pans. 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 

FAVORITE CAKE 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup molasses 1 nutmeg 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon soda 

4 eggs 1 pound chopped raisins 

4 cups flour (light weight) Pinch of salt 

Citron, brandy and currants if desired 



Mrs. Walter T. Baird 



SCOTCH CAKES 



34 pound butter IV4 pounds flotir 

1 poimd sugar 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

Roll thin, cut with cake cutter. 

Miss Matilda Baird 



218 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MOCK LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

1 egg 2 cups sifted flour 

1 cup (scant) sugar 1 tablespoon (heaping) butter 

1 cup sweet milk 4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

Drop butter in blood heat water until softened, pour off water, and 
cream sugar and butter in same bowl. Add whole unbeaten egg, and 
mix, then alternate flour and milk. Immediately before placing in pans 
to bake, sift in the baking powder. Pour into two cake pans and place 
at very top of oven at back (of gas range) and bake 20 minutes, using 
only the front burner. Light oven 5 minutes before placing cake in for 
baking. Test layers by imprint of fingers to know when done. 

Filling 

3y4 cup sugar 1/2 cup chopped nut meats 

1/2 cup cold water V2 cup chopped seeded raisins 

Yolk of 1 egg V2 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it threads, then pour over the beaten 
yolk and beat. Add nuts and raisins, and spread between the layers. 
Make white icing for top and sides. 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth, 
President, The New Century Club of Kennett Square, Pa. 



BI-METALLIC CAKE 

V2 cup (scant) butter 1 % cups flour 

1/2 cup sugar 3 eggs 

1/2 cup milk 1 y^ teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon extract almond 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add milk very slowly, then the 
flour (sifted), powder, almond and beaten whites. Bake in a moderately 
quick oven for yi hour. 

Icing 

Take the yolks, beat until light, to which add a syrup made by boil- 
ing together imtil it spins a heavy thread, 1 cup granulated sugar and half 
a cup boiling water. Flavor with 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

This recipe makes a white cake with a golden icing and is quite worth 
a trial. 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 



BOO K OF RECIPES 219 

BOWL, CUP AND SPOON CAKE 

(Only these three utensils are used in mixing the cake) 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs (whites) 

11/2 cups flour Melted butter 

1 big teaspoon baking powder V2 cup ""1^ 

A pinch of salt VaniUa to taste 

Mix these dry ingredients in the bowl. Drop the whites of eggs 
(unbeaten) in measuring cup. Add melted butter to half-way mark. 
Fill remaining half cup with milk. Four contents of cup into bowl, add- 
ing vanilla and stirring thoroughly. 

Mrs. H. H. White, 
President, New Century Club of Pottstown, Pa. 

LACE CAKES 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup (scant) sugar A pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon (large) baking powder 1 tablespoon melted butter 

2V2 cups uncooked Quaker oats 

Drop in large pan— 1 teaspoonful for each cake. Bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. William H. Hollar 

SWISS LOAF CAKE 

1 cup butter 1 cup milk 

11/2 cups sugar 2 eggs 

214 cups flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks, then milk and flour, and whites 
of eggs. Sift baking powder and flour together. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Caleb S. Middleton 

"RIZ" CAKE 

yx cup butter (creamed) V2 teaspoon soda (dissolved in hot 

21/2 cups sugar water) 

3 eggs 1 potmd raisins 

1 cup sour milk Vi poimd citron 

1/2 cup sweet milk V2 nutmeg 

3 cups flour Vz teaspoon cinnamon 

Let it stand in the bread pans 1 hour in a warm place. Bake in a 
bread oven. Mrs. Isaac S. Lowry 



220 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

JAM CAKE 

1 cup butter 4 or 5 eggs (beaten separately) 

2 cups sugar y^ teaspoon (about) ground black 
1 cup sweet milk pepper 

4 cups flour 1 teaspoon allspice 

3 teaspoons baking powder (sifted well 1 teaspoon cloves 

into the flour) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup of jam — raspberry or blackberry is best 

Bake in layers, spread jam between and ice. 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 

ONE-EGG CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

iVi cups flour 1 egg 

Vz cup milk 1 yz teaspoons baking powder 

A pinch of salt 

Bake in a loaf — add dots of butter and cinnamon on top. 

Mrs. Alfred Marshall 

COMPOSITION CAKE 

5 eggs 1 cup milk 

4 cups sifted flour 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 
2V2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 1 lemon (juice and grated rind) 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add beaten yolks, then add milk 
and part of flour; with rest of flour add the whites beaten very light. 
Flavor with juice and rind of lemon. This will make a loaf and 12 small 
cakes. 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 

FRIED CAKES 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder 

Melt sugar in the milk. This prevents absorption of grease. Roll 
half an inch thick after mixing soft, and 'fry in hot lard. Flavor with 
nutmeg. 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



221 



Vi pound butter 
2 cups sugar 
10 eggs (whites) 



SMALL LADY CAKE 

1 cup sweet milk 
3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 
Flavor with almond 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood, 
President, The Neighbors, Hatboro, Pa. 



SILVER CAKE 



y^ cup butter 

IV2 cups pulverized sugar 

1 cup tepid water 



2*4 cups flour 

2 tablespoons baking powder 

4 eggs (whites) 



Beat butter to a cream, add pulverized (or granulated) sugar, beat 
again. Add tepid water and flour. Beat thoroughly for 5 minutes, then 
stir in baking powder and well-beaten whites of eggs. Flavor with almond 
extract, bake in a moderate oven, about 1 hour. If followed exactly this 
makes a delicious cake. 

The yolks of the eggs can be used for mayonnaise dressing or cup 
custards. 

Mrs. Andrew M. Eastwick 



BROWN CAKE 



2 cups light brown sugar 

2 cups flour 

2 eggs 

Vz cup butter 



V2 cup milk 
y-i. cup boiling water 
1 teaspoon baking soda 
Vi cake chocolate (grated) 



Beat butter, sugar and yolks together, add milk, then the soda, dis- 
solved in half the boiling water, and chocolate in the other half of boil- 
ing water; then add flour, and last, the whites, beaten. Bake in 3 layers. 



Caramel Icing 



2 cups light brown sugar 
V2 cup cream 



Small lump of butter 
1 spoon vanilla 



Boil a few minutes, beat until thick, add vanilla. 

Mrs. Allen R. Mitchell 



222 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



BLACK CAKE 



1 pound butter 
1^4 pounds sugar 

1 pound flour 
12 eggs 

3 pounds raisins (seeded and chopped) 

2 pounds currants 
2 pounds citron 



1 glass of Madeira wine 

2 glasses brandy 

1 glass rose water 

2 nutmegs 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cloves 
1 glass currant jelly 



Bake in a moderate oven 4 hours. 

This recipe has been used in our family for many years, and if fol- 
lowed closely you cannot fail in it. 

Mrs. Hugh McIlvain 



1 cup powdered sugar 
1 cup (scant) flour 



MOCHA TARE (CAKE) 

4 eggs 

2 tablespoons coffee extract 
1 teaspoon (small) baking powder 



Beat together the yolks of eggs and the sugar, then add the flour and 
baking powder, and extract. Add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs last 
of all. Bake in 3 layers. When cold whip yi pint double cream, 2 tea- 
spoons of coffee extract, and sweeten to taste. Add this cream filling 
between the layers and on top, just as you are going to use the cake. 

Mrs. Henry P, Brown 



"SCRIPTURE CAKE" 

1 cup butter Judges 5: 25 

2 cups sugar Jeremiah 6: 20 
3V2 cups flour, prepared with 

2V2 teaspoons baking powder 1st Kings 4: 22 

2 cups raisins 1st Samuel 30: 12 

2 cups figs 1st Samuel 30: 12 

1 cup almonds Genesis 43 : 11 

1 cup water Genesis 24 : 20 

6 eggs Isaiah 10: 14 

A little salt Leviticus 2 : 13 

1 spoon (large) honey Exodus 16:31 

Sweet spices to taste 1st Kings 10: 12 

Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys and you will have 
a good cake. 

An old "trusted and tried" recipe Mrs. George F. Klemm 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



223 



NEW AMSTERDAM MOLASSES CAKE 

1 cup molasses 1 cup (scant) solid sour milk 

1 egg 1 teaspoon (even) bicarbonate of soda 

y-i cup butter and lard mixed (mostly 2V2 cups flour 

butter) 2 teaspoons ground ginger 

V2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 

Cream your butter well, then add egg without beating; stir well 
together, and then add molasses. Now take sour milk, in which you 
have dissolved your soda before you began to mix (this you should set 
in a saucer, as it is liable to foam up over the cup), put all in, both from 
saucer and cup, using some of yoiu- flotu- alternately with it tmtil all is 
used; lastly your spices. If spices are not liked you can add 1 scant cup 
of well-mashed ciirrants, which should be well-floured with about 1 table- 
spoon of extra flotu-. Bake in a moderate oven, either in small patty 
pans, long shallow pans, or a tiu-k's head pan with a tube in the center. 
If in the latter, serve hot, fill the hole in the center with whipped cream 
and serve with a hot chocolate sauce as a dessert. 

This is an old recipe brought from Holland to this country before 
New Amsterdam became New York and was often served boiled, as well 
as baked in their Dutch ovens. 

The Molasses Cake recipe my three times great-grandmother trans- 
lated into English from the Dutch, so the story goes. 

Mrs. John Gribbel 

ZOLLICOFFER OR TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE 

V2 cup butter 1 cup milk 

IV2 cups sugar 4 eggs (whites) 

3 cups flour 11^ teaspoons baking powder 

Mix together the butter, sugar, flour, milk, whites of eggs and bak- 
ing powder. 

Filling 

1 potmd sugar Vi pound figs 

3 eggs (whites) J/2 pound raisins 

Vi poimd citron 14 pound blanched almonds 

Moisten sugar and boil tmtil it spins from the spoon. Pour this 
over the beaten whites of eggs. Beat hard, then add citron, figs, raisins 
and almonds, all cut up fiine. Spread the mixture between layers and 
on top of cake. Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



224 NEWCENTURYCLUB 

BURGESS CAKE 

34 pound butter 1 teaspoon nutmeg and cinnamon mixed 

1 pound sugar 4 eggs (beaten separately) 

1 wineglass brandy V2 pound currants 

10 oimces (about) flour 

Rub butter and sugar together until smooth, then add the yolks of 
the eggs, brandy and spices. When thoroughly mixed, add about half 
of the flour, then the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; mix the 
remaining half of the fiotir with the currants and stir lightly into the 
mixture. Bake on tin sheets in a moderate oven. See that you do not 
get too much flour or the cakes will not be crisp. 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 

WHITE FLAKED RICE CAKES 

Vz to 3/4 package of flaked rice (2 cups 1 cup sugar 

and more) iVz teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons flour 

21/2 tablespoons melted butter 

Beat eggs; add one cup sugar and beat again, add butter, then rice 
and flour (well mixed with baking powder). Drop from spoon on greased 
pans; push together on pan — ^must not be flat. It is best to work in a 
little rice at a time. Bake. Work in more when ready to make up second 
pan, etc. Don't add all rice at once or batter will fall fiat. 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 

ENGLISH CAKE 

10 eggs Their weight in flour 

Their weight in sugar The weight of 6 in butter 

This has been in our family for seventy -five years — a "tried" recipe. 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood, 
President, The Neighbors, Hatboro, Pa. 

AMES CAKE 

1 cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 5 eggs 

Mix butter and sugar, add flour and then well-beaten eggs. Flavor 
with any extract preferred. Miss Florence E. Taylor 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



225 



TAYLOR CAKES 



V2 pound (scant) light brown sugar 

V^ pound butter 

4 eggs 

1 pint New Orleans molasses 

1 pint thick milk 

Dissolve soda in molasses. 



1 tablespoon soda 
ll^ pounds flour 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 
2 tablespoons ginger 

1 tablespoon cloves 

Drop in pans and bake. 

Miss Annie Heacock 



SUGAR CAKE 

1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon 1 cup granulated sugar 
y^ cup brown sugar 1 cup milk 

1/2 cup currants 1 egg 

2 cups self-raising flour V4 pound melted butter 

V2 teaspoon baking powder 

Put floiir in a bowl and add baking powder and one-half of the melted 
butter and three-fourths of the granulated sugar, all the milk and beaten 
t.^g. Add ciurants last. Pour into two pans and cover the top with 
cinnamon, brown sugar and the remainder of the granulated sugar. Last 
of all, poiu: the remainder of the butter over the top of the two cakes. 
Bake in a moderate oven 25 or 30 minutes. One-third of a cup of shelled 
black walnuts instead of the currants may be used. 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 



DELICIOUS PLAIN CAKE 



1 cup sugar, beaten with 
V2 cup butter 
1 egg 

Bake in slow oven. 



1 cup rich milk 

2 cups sifted flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon (level) nutmeg 



Miss Lida Paull Fife 



6 eggs (whites) 

% cup granulated sugar 



ANGEL CAKE 

Flavoring 
yz cup flour 
1 teaspoon cream of tartar 



Beat whites of eggs very stiff. Beat sugar slowly into whites. Add 
flavoring. Sift cream of tartar with flour and fold quickly into whites 
and sugar. Bake in ungreased pan in slow oven. 

Mrs. Edwin B. Newcomer 



226 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

GOOD PLAIN CAKE 

(Philadelphia Cooking School) 

6 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup pulverized sugar iVi cups flour 

2 eggs Vi teaspoon spice, or 
V2 cup milk Vz teaspoon flavoring 

Sift flour, baking powder and spice together. Cream butter and work 
in sugar gradually. Separate egg, beat yolk and pour milk into it. Add 
portions of this and dry mixture alternately to the creamed butter and 
sugar. Stir well to make smooth batter. Beat whites stiff and fold in 
carefully. Bake % oi an hour. Try with clean straw. 

Ciurants, raisins, quartered and seeded, or citron or candied orange 
peel cut into thin slices dredged with flour may be added just before baking. 
For marble cake stir a little cocoa into part of the batter. 

For orange cake put candied orange peel in the cake and frost with 
confectioner's sugar flavored with orange juice. 

Mrs. John J. McGuigan 

ANGEL FOOD 

114 cups grantilated sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon bitter almond extract 

12 eggs (whites) 

Sift flour and cream of tartar 4 times; beat whites stiff, stir in last, 
always stirring gently. Bake in moderate oven; when done turn upside 
down and it will in time drop free from the tin. ' 

Mrs. John D. McIlhenny 

"ROCKS" (DELICIOUS LITTLE CAKES) 

(Mrs. M. B. Tort's recipe) 

1 cup sugar 1 pound English walnuts (chopped) 
% cup butter 1 pound seeded raisins 

IV2 cups floiur 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon soda 

Cream sugar with butter; add flour, eggs, walnuts, raisins, cinnamon, 
cloves and soda (dissolved in hot water). Drop by teaspoon on greased 
tins and bake. The dough must be very stiff. Place half an English 
walnut on each cake before baking. 

These keep as well as fruit cake. Miss Anne Heygate-Hall 



BOOK OF RECIPES 227 

HERMITS 

(Delicious Small Cakes) 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

2 cups sugar V2 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon (level) soda 

Add eggs to the creamed butter and sugar; add sour milk, with soda 
dissolved in a little milk. 

V2 pound figs (cut fine) V2 teaspoon cloves 

1 teacup raisins (cut fine) 3 cups flour (add carefully; do not 
V2 pound English walnuts (chopped) have too thick) 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 3 teaspoons liquid vanilla, or equivalent 

in vanilla bean 

Lard baking pans, drop batter, a teaspoon at a time, two inches 
apart on pan. Bake only until light brown. 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 

KISSES 

Vz pound pulverized sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs (whites) 

Bake on a board ; first moisten it and cover with brown paper. Bake 
slowly. This will make 2 dozen kisses. Mrs. John D. McIlhenny 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL BALLS 

2V^ cups brown sugar 1 cup sweet cream 

Butter the size of a walnut V4 cake Baker's chocolate 

1 teaspoon vanilla (put in last) 

Beat until light. Roll in balls the size of small marbles and roll in 
granulated sugar. Do not cook imtil brittle. 

Mrs. J. Howard Marshall 

SAND TARTS 

2 poimds flour iVi pounds butter 

2 pounds granulated sugar 3 eggs 

Mix the sugar, butter and flour, wet it with the eggs, well beaten, 
and mix very well together. Roll very thin, and sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon mixed. Cut thin, and stick in, before baking, 3 or 4 blanched 
ahnonds. Mrs. J. Gibson McIlvain 



228 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SAND TARTS 

1 pound sugar 1/2 pound butter (flavored with lemon) 

1 pound flour 6 eggs 

Roll very thin, brush with egg and put granulated sugar, pecan nut 
and cinnamon on top. Bake in quick oven. 

These cakes will keep indefinitely in tin boxes, and are fine to serve 
with tea. Mrs. Harrison Souder 

MANDELBRODCHEN 

3 eggs (whites) V2 pound almonds 

1/2 pound pulverized sugar 2 ounces sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs with pulverized sugar for 15 minutes. Blanch 
the almonds and chop fine or run through a meat-grinder; mix with 2 
ounces of sugar and brown slightly in the oven; when cool mix with the 
beaten white of egg and sugar. Drop in small cakes on a greased paper 
and bake in a cool oven. Mrs. John L. Appleton 

CARAMEL ICING 

IV2 cups brown sugar, mixed with ^4 cup cream 

1 tablespoon (large) flour Yz cup (scant) butter 

Boil until very thick. Stir all ttie time (about 10 minutes). Spread 
on cake while hot. Mrs. Walter C. McIntire 

CHOCOLATE NUT FROSTING 

IV2 cups sugar 8 squares chocolate 

8 tablespoons milk Vanilla 

34 poimd English walnuts 

Boil sugar, milk and chocolate 8 minutes. Set in a dish of cold water 
and beat until thick enough to spread, then add vanilla and walnuts 
broken in small pieces. Spread on loaf of thick plain cake. 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 

A GOOD ICING FOR CAKE 

Two tablespoons of orange juice and the grated rind of the orange. 
Three cups of 4 X sugar. Mix the juice and the sugar, and pour boiling 
water on the whole — a little at a time, until it is the consistency of boiled 
icing — or a thick custard. Pour over the cake and spread over — that's 
all. Mrs. Charles H. Woolley 



CanbteiS 

The daint est last, to make the end most sweet. — Richard IL 



(229) 



NUT CANDY 

2 cups granulated sugar 2 teaspoons (about) vinegar 
V2 cup water Nuts 

Mix sugar, water and vinegar; boil without stirring, until brittle 
when dropped in cold water. Butter shallow pans and pour over nuts 
(peanuts, shellbarks, walnuts or any nuts you may have). It is well 
to let the nuts get warm before pouring in the mixture. 

Mrs. J. Gibson McIlvain 

NUT CHOCOLATES 

Grate or cut into square pieces a cake of Baker's (bitter) chocolate. 
Add to this about }4 cup of water and melt over a boiling tea kettle. 
When the chocolate is thoroughly melted remove from over the kettle, 
and stir in confectioner's sugar (or a fine pulverized sugar will do) imtil 
it is the right consistency to be formed into balls in the fingers. This 
is much like the French candy and when formed into balls and put 
between two English walnuts, is very good. 

Miss Alice Pusey Chambers 

WALNUT CANDY 

3 cups brown sugar Butter the size of an egg 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup water 1 pound walnut meats (broken) 

Boil sugar and water until it will form a soft ball in cold water. Add 
butter and cream of tartar and beat until nearly stiff, then add walnut 
meats. 

Mrs. Edwin B. Newcomer 

SEA FOAM 

3 cups brown sugar 2 eggs (whites) 

1 cup water 1 cup English walnuts (chopped) 

Boil sugar and water imtil it strings. Stir this syrup gradually into 
the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Add walnuts and when it has been beaten 
nearly hard, drop from a spoon on a buttered platter. 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 

(231) 



232 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TAFFY 

1 pound brown sugar y-i teacup vinegar 

1 pound butter V2 teacup water 

Put the vinegar, water and butter on the fire imtil warm, then add 
sugar; boil until it will crack when dropped in cold water. 
This is the very best recipe for Taffy I know. 

Mrs. J. Gibson McIlvain 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

3 ounces Baker's chocolate Butter the size of a wahiut 

ly-i cups granulated sugar V2 cup cream (good measure) 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

If you wish nut fudge, add 1 cup of nuts, cut fine. 

Melt the chocolate on a pie plate ; melt butter in saucepan; add sugar, 
chocolate and cream. Put on fire to boil, and when boiling all over, time 
it and boil 6 minutes, then add nuts. Take from fire, stir hard imtil it 
begins to thicken; add vaniUa; pour quickly into pan already greased 
with a little butter. (Pan 10 inches long, 6 inches wide). Cut candy 
into blocks before it gets entirely cold. Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 

FUDGE 

2 ounces Baker's chocolate 1 cup milk or cream 

2 cups granulated sugar Large piece of butter 

Vi teaspoon vanilla 

Do not cook too long. Take off the fire when chocolate granulates 
around the sides of the pan. Put the vanilla in just before you take from 
the fire. Beat the mixture for 3, or maybe only 2 minutes. 

Mrs. H. G. Michener 

FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 2 squares Baker's chocolate 

1 cup milk 1 cup raisins (cut) 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 cup English walnuts (broken) 

Boil sugar and milk well, then add butter; when melted, add choco- 
late; boil again well, and when cool, beat about 10 minutes; then add 
raisins and walnuts. Put away to harden. 

The Misses Longstreth 



BOOK OF RECIPES 233 

MARSHMALLOW FUDGE 

2 cups brown sugar V2 cake Baker's chocolate 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk Butter the size of a walnut 

Boil, stirring constantly, sugar, milk and chocolate, until the mix- 
ture soft balls in cold water. Add butter just before, and vanilla just 
after removing from fire. Stir until it begins to stiffen, and pour into 
buttered pans. If desired, >^ poimd of marshmallows may be added just 
after the vanilla. Best prepared on chafing dish. 

Miss Mary Craig Peacock 

BROOK GROVE FUDGE 

1/2 cake Baker's chocolate Butter the size of an egg 

2 large cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
% cup cream Pinch of salt 

Cook tintil thick, then take ofl stove and beat tmtil it begins to be 
stiff and creamy. Stir in vanilla and pour out on buttered plates. Add 
salt when nearly finished. Miss Mary Janney 

FRUIT FUDGE 

3 cups granulated sugar 14 cup seeded raisins 
3 teaspoons soda V^ cup nuts 

3/4 cup milk Vt cup cocoanut 

1 tablespoon butter Ya cup figs (cut small) 

Boil sugar, soda, milk and butter. When it will form a soft ball in 
cold water, add raisins, nuts, cocoanut and figs. Beat imtil it begins to 
sugar on the sides, and pour quickly into buttered tins. When almost 
cool, mark in squares. Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 

OPERA CREAMS 

2 squares Baker's chocolate % cup milk 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1V4 cups Ught brown sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

Grate chocolate, add sugar and milk. Cook slowly until mixture is 
smooth and boil for about a minute, or until a soft ball is formed in cold 
water. Remove from stove, add vanilla and butter and beat until hard 
enough to form. Drop from a teaspoon upon waxed paper. 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 



234 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 cup sugar 1/2 cup cream 

1 cup New Orleans molasses Butter the size of a walnut 

y^ cake chocolate (Vs poimd) 1 teaspoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil until it hardens in cold water and stir all you wish. After boil- 
ing, add vinegar and vanilla. 

I like brown sugar in candy, but granulated will do in caramels. 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1/2 pound Baker's chocolate 4 cups brown stigar 

Vi pound butter 1 cup milk 

IV4 cups New Orleans molasses Vanilla extract to taste 

After boiling 20 minutes, stirring frequently, try in ice water till 
strings are brittle. These are delicious. Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 

CARAMELS 

V^ pound Baker's chocolate 1 cup molasses 

y^ poimd brown sugar 1 cup milk 

Vi pound butter 1 tablespoon vanilla extract 

Mrs. Effingham Perot 

CANDIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL 

Cut peel into strips and soak for 48 hours, changing water three or 
four times. Cover with fresh cold water and boil 4 hours, changing water 
once. Then drain and weigh, taking equal parts of peel and granulated 
sugar, and put on the fire again without adding water, and boil until all 
the syrup is absorbed. While still warm roll in granulated sugar. 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 

CONSERVED GRAPEFRUIT RIND 

Use the rind only. Cut in pieces the size of a section of an orange. 
Boil these 20 minutes in water. Drain them. Put back in the kettle, 
as follows: A layer of the rind and a layer of sugar. Boil these imtil 
they are clear (about 8 or 10 minutes). Then drain again. Put them in 
a self -sealing jar. When you wish to use them, roll in sugar. 

This I can vouch for, as it is one of Sophie's recipes. 

Mrs. James B. Thomas 



peberasesf 

We drink this health to yow.— Pericles. 



(235) 



PURE GRAPE JUICE 

10 pounds Concord grapes 2 quarts water 

5 cups sugar 

Pick grapes off stem and wash; place them in kettle with water and 
boil until skins are well broken. Take off and drain, then press the skins 
until juice is all extracted. Return juice to kettle with sugar and boil 
until sugar is dissolved, skimming off anything that rises to the surface. 
Bottle and seal while hot. If not sweet enough to suit taste, more sugar 
can be added. 

Mrs. E. Boyd Weitzel 



GRAPE JXnCE 

3 quarts Concord grapes 1 quart water 

Sugar 

Stem and wash grapes before measuring. Heat thoroughly and 
strain. To 1 quart of juice add 1 cup of sugar. Use small cup if grapes 
are very sweet. Let juice and sugar come to a boil, then bottle and seal 
with wax. 

Mrs. Edwin F. Keen 



MISS SALLY WHEELER JOHNSON'S LEMONADE 

(This recipe is always used at the Meetings of the Site and Relic Society 

of Germantown) 

S dozen lemons 1 pineapple (cut in fine slices or 
10 pounds granulated sugar small pieces) 

V2 dozen oranges (sliced with the peel or 

left on), or 1 box strawberries (in season) 

Dissolve the sugar in boiling water some hours before wanted; stir 
thoroughly, putting in some of the lemon peel cut very thin. Add the 
lemon juice when cool, and the fruit and ice when ready to serve. Do not 
put all the s>T-up in the lemon juice at once, as it may be too sweet if 
lemons are not ripe and juicy. 

The fruit can be used to suit individual taste, one or more kinds used 
at a time, as preferred. 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 

(237) 



238 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TEMPERANCE PUNCH 

6 oranges 1 bottle white grape juice 

2 lemons 2 bottles ginger ale 

1 teaspoon crushed mint Sugar 

Mix the juice of oranges and lemons in bowl with crushed mint (or 
a bunch of mint). Put juice in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add 
grape juice; sugar to taste. Before serving, add ginger ale. Serve with 
strawberry or small squares of pineapple in glass. As the ice melts add 
more ginger ale. If the punch is not sweet enough add more sugar. 

(Warranted to put no one under the table.) 

Miss Anne Hollingsworth Wharton 



GRAPE JUICE 

Sectu-e good juicy grapes (preferably the Concord), pick and stem 
them, place in a preserving kettle and barely cover with water. Boil 
until tender, then mash and strain. To every gallon of juice add 1 cup 
of granulated sugar. Return to the fire and let boil for 3 minutes and 
then place in bottles and seal. Drink with pleasure. 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 



BLACKBERRY BRANDY 

(Recommended in case of sickness) 

2 quarts blackberry juice 1 ounce powdered cinnamon 

1 quart brandy 1 ounce powdered nutmeg 

2 pounds soft white sugar 1 ounce powdered cloves 

1 oimce powdered allspice 

Boil the juice with the sugar and the spices for 15 minutes. Take 
from the fire and add the brandy. When cold, strain, bottle and seal. 
The spices should be placed in a bag, in order not to discolor the juice. 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Duncan 



RECETTE DE TALLEYRAND POUR LE CAFE 

Noir comme le diable Pur comme un ange 

Chaud comme I'enfer Doux comme I'amour 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 



BOOK OF RECIPES 239 

DANDELION WINE 

4 quarts dandelion blossoms (without 2 lemons 

stems) 4 quarts lukewarm water 

4 oranges Sugar 

Yeast cake 

Stand the water and dandelions, thin peel of lemons and oranges, 
60 hoiirs. Squeeze out and strain. Put 4 pounds of sugar to every gal- 
lon of above. (In the meantime you have taken the peeled oranges and 
lemons and rolled in oiled paper to keep them over the 60 hours.) Cut 
oranges and lemons up fine and to every gallon put a broken-up yeast 
cake and the sugar, oranges and lemons and let stand 36 hours. Strain 
and bottle, leaving corks off until done fermenting. 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 

ORANGE CORDIAL 

36 oranges 1 gallon water 

1 gallon rectified alcohol White sugar 

Use the skins of the oranges, peeling very thin. Put in a large jar 
or vessel and poiu* on alcohol and water. Cook and let stand for 7 weeks, 
stirring or shaking thoroughly every day. Strain and measiu-e the juice, 
and to each quart of liquid add the syrup made from boiling 1 pound 
of white sugar, to which a little water has been added. Add the syrup 
hot, then bottle and cork. 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 



Some hae meat that camia eat, 

And some would eat that want it; 
But we hae meat, and we can eat, 

Sae let the Lord be thankit. 

Robert Burns 



(240) 



Snbex 



Preabsi 



PAGE 

Bath Bread 22 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 
Batter Bread or Com Pone 21 

Mrs. Elmore C. Hine 
Bedford RoUs 23 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 
Biscuits, Ellen's 25 

Mrs. C. L. Peirce 
Bread 17 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Bread Cakes 22 

Miss Helen A. Childs 
Breakfast Biscuits 24 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Breakfast Muffins 27 

Mrs. William P. Potter 
Brown Bread, Steamed 21 

Mrs. W. Dtiffield Robinson 
Buckwheat Cakes 30 

Miss G. B. Mcllhenny 
Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 30 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 
Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 30 

Miss Helen Lippincott 
Christmas Bread (Mary R. Heygate- 

Hall's Recipe) 22 

Miss Anna Hey gate-Hall 
Cinnamon Bun 28 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 
Cinnamon Bun 29 

Miss A bby A . Sutherland 
Com Bread, My Grandmother's 21 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Commeal Griddle Cakes 31 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
16 (24 



PAGB 

Cream Muffins, Mrs. Charles D. B. 

Barney's 26 

Miss Mary Janney 
Dinner or Lunch Rolls, Anna's 24 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Dutch Cake 20 

Mrs. George H. Vanderbeck 
Flume House Flannel Cakes 31 

Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 
French Waffles 32 

Miss Emma R. Jack 
Gems 27 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 
Graham Bread 20 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 
Graham Bread 20 

Mrs. H. H. White 
Graham Bread 21 

Mrs. A. W. Robinson 
Graham Gems 27 

Miss Virginia Hartshorne 
Griddle Cakes 29 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 
Milk Biscuit 25 

Mrs. Isaac H. Clothier 
Nut Bread 17 

Miss Gertrude A. Barrett 
Nut Bread 17 

Mrs. Mary C. D. Geisler 
Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 
Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth 
1) 



242 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. Abner H. Mer short 
Nut Bread 19 

Mrs. John I. McGuigan 
Old-Fashioned Buckwheat Cakes. ... 30 

Mrs. Eugene H. Austin 
Old-Fashioned Dutch Cake 19 

Mrs. Henry Delaplaine 
Old-Fashioned Muffins 26 

Miss Emily Campbell 
Plain Muffins 25 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 
Popovers 26 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Queen Muffins 26 

Mrs. William A. Wiederseim 
Quick Nut Bread 19 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 
Sally Lunn 27 

Miss Lida Paull Fife 
Sally Lunn 28 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 



PAGE 

"Schecken" 31 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 
Scotch Short Bread 22 

Mrs. A. Gallatin Talbott 
Spanish Bun 29 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Spoon Bread 23 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 
Spoon Bread 23 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 
Sweet Potato Biscuit 25 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 
Tea Rolls 24 

Mrs. William Burnham 
Virginia Sally Lunn 28 

Miss Mary Janney 
Virginia Spoon Bread 23 

Mrs. Charles H. Guilbert 
Waffles 32 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Waffles 32 

Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 



^DUP£i 



Beef Soup 39 

Mrs. Samuel Scoville, Jr. 
Bisque of Clam, Caroline's 37 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Black Bean Soup 38 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 
Chicken Jelly 39 

Mary Effingham Perot 
Clam Pur^e 36 

Mrs. C. P. Turner 
Clam Soup 37 

Mrs. C. L. Peirce 
Fish Chowder 40 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Mock Bisque Soup 37 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Mutton Broth, Mother's 38 

Mrs. John Cribbel 
Onion Soup 35 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 
Onion Soup 35 

Mrs. Edward L. Reynolds 



36 



Onion Soup with Cheese (ItaUan) . 

Mrs. William B. Campbell 
Palatable Summer Soup 39 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 
Peanut Soup 39 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 
Rabbit Soup 41 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Soup k la Reine 40 

Mrs. A. Gallatin Talbott 
Spinach Soup 36 

The Misses Esherick 
Spinach Soup 36 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit . 
Soup Dumplings 40 

Mrs. Edward Webster 
Tomato Soup 35 

Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 
Tomato Soup 35 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
White House Bouillon 38 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



INDEX 



243 



jfm 



Clara Roast 53 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Clams, Deviled 53 

Mrs. H. G. Michener 
Clams, Deviled 53 

Mrs. Joshua Ash Pearson 
Coquilles 46 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Crabs, Deviled 50 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Crabs, Deviled— Baltimore Style .... 49 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
Fish, Baked 45 

Miss Tirzah L. Nichols 
Fish, Scalloped 45 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Fish or Meat Souffle 46 

Mrs. Elmore C. Hine 
Lobster Chops 47 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 
Lobster k la Newburg 48 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Mackerel, Baked 46 

Miss Annie Heacock 
Oyster k la Thibault 52 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 
Oyster Loaf 53 

Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 



Oyster Short Cake 52 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 
Oysters, Baked— Club Style 49 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Oysters, Browned 51 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Oysters, Pan-Broiled 50 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Oysters, Pickled 52 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 
Oysters, Scalloped 51 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 
Oysters on Crackers 49 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Poisson a la Creme 45 

Mary E. B. Perot 
Rhode Island Codfish Cakes 46 

Mrs. Frank Battles 
Salmon, Baked Canned 47 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Salmon Souffle 47 

Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 
Salmon Souffle 47 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Terrapin 48 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 
Thibault Oysters 51 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 



jWeatss 



Beef t la Mode 61 

Miss Amelia R. Coale 
Beef Heart, to Roast with Sage and 

Onions 69 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Boudins 64 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Breaded Lamb Chops with Mush- 
room Sauce 63 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Brunswick Stew 59 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 



Calf's Head (Terrapin Style) 70 

The Misses Esherick 
Calf's Liver in a Chafing Dish 69 

Miss Virginia Hartshorne 
Canvas-Back Duck 72 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Chicken a la King 57 

From Literary Digest, March 27, IQ15 
Chicken k la King 58 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Chicken Croquettes 58 

Miss Agnes Preston 



244 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Chicken Croquettes 59 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 
Chicken Croquettes 59 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Chicken, Jellied 61 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Chicken, Jellied 60 

Mrs. Henry Delaplaine 
Chicken Mousse 60 

Miss Mariana J. Steel 
Fresh Tongue 67 

Countess of Santa Eulalia 
Galantine 68 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 
Ham and Current Jelly 69 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 
Ham, Baked 65 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Ham, Baked SHce of 64 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 
Ham, Baked Slice of 64 

Miss Annie Heacock 
Hash 63 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Kidney Stew, a Quick 67 

Miss Gertrude A . Barrett 
Kidney, Stewed 68 

Mrs. J. Nicholas Mitchell 
Kidney, Stewed 68 

Mrs. William A. Flanigen 
Mexican Ham 66 

Mrs. Samuel Bispham Bowen 
Mexican Tongue 66 

Mrs. Samuel Bispham Bowen 
Mock Terrapin 71 

Mrs. Lewis M, Johnson 



PAGE 

Mock Terrapin 72 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Sausage 66 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 
Sausage, Home-made Country 66 

Mrs. Henry C. Mcllvaine 
Sausage Roll 65 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Savory Meat 63 

Mrs. Alfred Percival Smith 
Spanish Stew, A 62 

Miss Agnes Repplier 
Stuffing for Chicken 58 

Mrs. William A . Flanigen 
Swedish Hamburg Steak 63 

Mrs. W. F. Taft 
Sweetbreads 72 

Miss Caroline C. Hoffman 
Sweetbreads, Baked 70 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 
Sweetbreads, Baked 71 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
To Serve With Meat and Fish 73 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
To Stew a Duck With Chestnuts ... 71 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Turkey, Boned 62 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Veal, A Digestible Way of Preparing. 65 

Miss Gertrude A. Barrett 
Veal, Fried 64 

Mrs. Alfred Percival Smith 
Wakefield Steak 61 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 



"Vegetables' 



Bean Loaf with Bacon Curls 82 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Celery — Siena Style 80 

Miss Sarah C. Sower 
Com, Canned 78 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 



Com Fritters 

Mrs. Isaac H. Clothier 
Com Fritters 

Miss Clara Comegys 
Corn Pudding 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 



78 
79 
79 



INDEX 



245 



PAGE 

Egg Plant, Baked 80 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Green Com au Gratin with Sweet Red 

Peppers 78 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Green Com Fritters 79 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Peppers, Stuffed 82 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Potato au Gratin 78 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Potato Fritters 77 

Mrs. Lucretia L. Blankenburg 
Potato Puff 77 

Mrs. John Gibson 



PAGE 

Potatoes, Scalloped 77 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 
Potatoes, Scalloped 78 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 
Rice Omelet 81 

Mrs. Grace S. Williams 
Spinach Pudding 81 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 
Sweet Potatoes 77 

Mrs. Samuel Semple 
To Boil Rice— Southern Style 81 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Tomato a la Creole 79 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 



CntreesJ 



Cheese Balls 90 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 
Cheese Entree 87 

Mrs. William H. Hollar 
Cheese Entree 88 

Miss Seraph J. Deal 
Cheese Fondue 89 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit 
Cheese Fondue 89 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Cheese Fondue 89 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Cheese Ramekin 90 

Mrs. William A . Wiederseim 
Cheese Souffl6 88 

Miss Anne Hollingsworth Wharton 
Cheese SoufH6 88 

Miss Hilda Justice 
Cheese Souffle 89 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Eggs au Gratin 86 

Mrs. William Showell Ellis 



Egg Chops, Palatable 87 

Miss Anna Johnson 
Egg Timbales , 86 

Mrs. William R. Turner 
Mushrooms Sous Cloches (Under 

Glasses) 85 

Mrs. William R. Turner 
Omelette, Baked 87 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Sandwiches 86 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit 
Savory Cheese 90 

Mrs. William R. Turner 
Timbale 87 

Mrs. James A. Develin 
Tomato Cream Toast 86 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Welsh Rarebit 85 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Welsh Rarebit, A Digestible 85 

Miss Emma Blakiston 



^icfeles;— J^elisifjes; 



Bordeaux Sauce 100 

Mrs. George McKeown 
Cantaloupe, Spiced 97 

Miss Amelia R. Coale 



Cherries, Pickled 95 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 
Chili Sauce 99 

Mrs. Richard Peters 



246 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Chili Sauce 99 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 
Chow Chow 100 

Mrs. William P. Worth 
Chow Chow 101 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 
Chowder 102 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 
Cold Slaw Dressing 102 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 
Corn Relish 102 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 
French Pickle 96 

Mrs. Henry T. Dechert 
French Sauce 98 

Miss Helen A. Childs 
Ginger Pears 96 

Mrs. William P. Worth 
Green Tomato Pickle 94 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 
Green Tomato Pickle 94 

Mrs. George L. Mitchell 
Green Tomato Pickles, Oyster Bay . . 95 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 
Mango Peaches 93 

Miss Anna L. Coale 
Meat Sauce 97 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 



PAGE 

Peaches, Pickled 94 

Mrs. Edwin F. Keen 
Pepper Hash 99 

Mrs. Richard Peters 
Pepper Sauce 100 

Mrs. Matthew James Crier 
Piccalilli lOl 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 
Spanish Pickle 95 

Mrs. Robert T. Boyd 
Sweet Cherry Pickle 96 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntire 
Sweet Peach Pickle 93 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
To Eat with Meats 101 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 
Tomato Catsup 97 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 
Tomato Catsup 97 

Mrs. Robert T. Boyd 
Tomato Catsup, My Grandmother's 98 

Miss Elizabeth A. Atkinson 
Tomatoes, Spiced 98 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 
Vegetable Chow Chow 103 

Alice Pusey Chambers 
Watermelon Pickle 96 

Mrs. Samuel S. Thompson 



^alab£S 



Apple Salad 109 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 
Cheese 114 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Cherry Salad Ill 

Mrs. A. W. Robinson 
Cold Slaw 113 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 
Date and Apple Salad 110 

Mrs. H. H. White 
Easy Salad Dressing 113 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 
Fruit Salad 108 

Mrs, W, Duffield Robinson 



Fruit Salad 110 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Fruit Salad Dressing HI 

Mrs. Alfred Marshall 
Lettuce and Tomato Salad 1 09 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
Mayonnaise 112 

Miss Edith Sellers Bunting 
Memphis Salad Dressing 112 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Mexican Salad 108 

Mrs. T. Elwood Potts 
Oil Mayonnaise for Salads 112 

Mrs. Benjamin F, Richardson 



INDEX 



247 



PAGE 

Pear and Pimento Salad 1 10 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 
Pineapple Salad Ill 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Potato Salad 107 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Potato Salad 107 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Radish and Cheese Salad 108 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Russian Salad Dressing, Mrs. C. C. 

Converse's 113 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 



PAGE 

Salad Dressing 112 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 

Salad Dressing without Oil 113 

Mrs. Isaac S. Lowry 

Spanish Salad 107 

Mrs. Henry B. Cos till 

Tomato Jelly on Lettuce 114 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

White Grape Salad Ill 

Mrs. A. W, Robinson 



3^ubbmg£{ 



Apple Pudding 132 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 
Blackberry Pudding 134 

Miss Anna Johnson 
Bread Pudding 119 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 
Brown Betty 120 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Carrot Pudding 135 

Mrs. Henry C. Mcllvaine 
Carrot Pudding 135 

Mrs. John I. McGuigan 
Cheap Plum Pudding 123 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 
Chocolate Pudding 128 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Chocolate Pudding 128 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 
Chocolate Pudding 128 

Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 
Chocolate Pudding, Steamed 127 

Mrs. William Shewell Ellis 
Chocolate Pudding, Steamed 129 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Cold Pudding Sauce 134 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox 
Date Pudding 125 

Mrs. Walter T. Baird 

DeUghtful Pudding 134 

Miss Hilda Justice 



English Plum Pudding 122 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 

EngUsh Plum Pudding 121 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 

EngHsh Plum Pudding 120 

• Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Fig Pudding 125 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 
Fig Pudding 125 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Fig Pudding 126 

Miss Anna L. Coale 
Fruit Pudding 132 

Mrs. Hugh Mcllvain 
Graham Pudding 126 

Mrs. W. F. Taft 
Graham Pudding 126 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Graham Pudding 127 

The Misses Longslreth 
Honeycomb Pudding 132 

Miss Mary S. Johnson 
Hot Pudding Sauce 127 

The Misses Longstreth 
Huckleberry Pudding 133 

Mrs. Thomas J. Garland 
Huckleberry Pudding 133 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Huckleberry Pudding 134 

Mrs, Samuel S. Thompson 



248 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Indian Pudding 129 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Innocent Pudding 131 

Miss Emily Campbell 
Jerusalem Pudding 120 

Mrs. Joseph Warner Swain 
John's Delight 123 

Mrs. William Burnham 
John's Delight 124 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 
John's Delight 124 

Miss Emma Klahr 
"Judge Peters" 120 

Mrs. Joseph Warner Swain 
Lemon Cream Pudding 133 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 
Marshmallow Pudding 130 

Miss Mary Massey 
Oatmeal Pudding 129 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 
Ocean Queen Pudding 124 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 
Orange Pudding \i5m 

Miss Henrietta W. Pearsall 
Pineapple Pudding 127 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 
Pink Pudding 1 19 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Plum Pudding 121 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 
Plum Pudding 122 

Mrs. C. P. Turner 



PAGE 

Plum Pudding 122 

Miss Anne Heygate-Hall 
Plum Pudding 123 

Mrs. William Burnham 
Prune Pudding 125 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Pudding Blanc d'CEufs et Caramel. . 119 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Puff Pudding 131 

Mrs. John Gribbel 
Rhode Island Rice Pudding 118 

Mrs. Frank Battles 
Rice Pudding 118 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 
Ripe Gooseberry Pudding 136 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Royal Iced Cabinet Pudding 117 

Mrs. Cornelius Stevenson 
Snow Pudding 121 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 
Sponge Pudding 129 

The Misses Longstreth 
Sponge Pudding 130 

Miss Maude G. Hopkins 
Sponge Pudding 131 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 
Tapioca Pudding 118 

The Misses Longstreth 
Turkish Pudding 126 

Mrs, Thomas Raeburn White 



$tes; 



Banbury Tarts, Aunt Abby's 146 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 
Boston Cream Pie 145 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 
Butter Scotch Pie 147 

The Misses Longstreth 
Caramel Custard 147 

Airs. Charles D. Cox 
Cheese Cake Pie 144 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 



Cheese Cake Pie 144 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 
Cheese Cake Pie 146 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntire 
Cheese Cake Pie 146 

Miss Helen A. Childs 
Cherry Pot Pie 147 

Miss Matilda Baird 
Cocoanut Pudding (Pie) 149 

Mrs. T. William Kimber 



INDEX 



249 



PAGE 

Cream Pie 143 

Miss Helen Lippincott 
English Mince Meat 143 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 
Filling for Banbury Tarts 147 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 
Florida Cream Pie 145 

Mrs. Grace S. Williams 
Lemon Custard Pie 141 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Lemon for Tarts 148 

Mrs. Thomas Theodore Watson 
Lemon Meringue Pie 139 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Lemon Meringue Pie 140 

Mrs. George McKeown 
Lemon Pie, Our Favorite 140 

Mrs. Lewis R. Dick 
Lemon Pie 140 

Mrs. William Burnham 
Lemon Pie 141 

Mrs. Edward H. Bonsall 
Marlborough Pie 139 

Mrs. Edward L. Reynolds 



PAGE 

Maryland Lemon Pie 141 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 
Mince Meat 144 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 
Mince Meat 144 

Mrs. Thomas J. Garland 
Mince Meat 143 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Orange or Lemon Pie 141 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 
Peach Tart 148 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Pennsylvania Apple Pie 139 

Mrs. Tlieron I. Crane 
Pie Crust, Plain 148 

Mrs. Thomas Shallcross 
Potato Pudding Pie 149 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood 
Pumpkin Pie 142 

Mrs. George L. Mitchell 
Pumpkin Pie 142 

Mrs. Joshua Ash Pearson 
Pumpkin Pie 142 

Miss Agnes Preston 



^t^^txt^ 



Apples, Coddled 153 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Apple Cream 153 

Mrs. Samuel S. Thompson 
Apples on the Half Shell 153 

Mrs. Henry Safford Hale 
Baked Bananas 154 

Mrs. Franklin Baker, Jr. 
Baltimore Float 153 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
Brown Betty 154 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Caramel Cream 157 

Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 
Caramel Custard 156 

Mrs. Franklin Baker, Jr. 
Charlotte Russe 157 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 



Charlotte Russe 157 

Miss Jennie S. Potts 

Charlotte Russe 158 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 160 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 

Chocolate Sponge 159 

Miss Helen Lippincott 

Chocolate Whip 160 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 

Coffee Custard 156 

Mrs. Charles A . Longstreth 

Coffee Custard 156 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Dessert, an Italian 160 

Mrs. Henry C. Mcllvaine 



250 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Dessert, Queen Victoria's Favorite. . 159 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 
Italian Cream 159 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Jelly, Uncooked Quickly Made 159 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Lemon Butter 160 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Orange Loaf 155 

Mrs. Alfred Marshall 
Peach or Strawberry Short Cake. ... 155 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 



PAGE 

Prune Souffle 155 

Mrs. Charles E. Nohlit 
Spanish Cream 158 

Miss Mary S. Parry 
Spanish Cream 158 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Souffle of Rice 155 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 
Strawberry Tapioca 154 

Miss Henrietta W. Pearsall 
Velvet Cream 158 

Mrs. Richard Peters 



Sees; 



Apple Frapp^ , 165 

Miss Clara Comegys 
Frozen Custard 164 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 
Lemon Ice 163 

Mrs. Mattltew James Grier 
Lemon Ice Cream, Old-Fashioned . . . 163 

Miss Emma R. Jack 
Lemon Sherbet 163 

Mrs. Edward 'L. Reynolds 
Maple Frapp^ 165 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 



Marshmallow Cream, Frozen 165 

Mrs. Alexander Patton 

Orange Mousse 164 

Miss Agnes Preston 

Orange Mousse 163 

Mrs. Charles F. Godshall 

Peach Delight 164 

Miss Agnes Preston 

Pineapple Ice 164 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 



jFruit£{ 

^re^erbcb — Canneli 



Cherries, Kimballed 170 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 
Cherries (Preserved Uncooked) 169 

Miss Anna L. Coale 
Ginger Pears 172 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Grape Conserve 170 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth 
Grape, Spiced 170 

Mrs. T. William Kimber 
Peaches, Brandied 173 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



Peaches, Spiced 171 

Mrs. Charles H. Guilbert 
Pear Chips 172 

Mrs. Samuel Scoville, Jr. 

Pears, Chipped 172 

Mrs.T. William Kimber 
Persian Plum 1 7 1 

Miss A nne Hey gate-Hall 
Pineapple, to Preserve without Cook- 
ing 169 

Mrs. A. W. Robinson 
Plum Conserve 170 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 



INDEX 



251 



PAGE 

Rhubarb Preserve 169 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Strawberries, Sun-Preserved 169 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 



Watermelon Rind, Spiced 171 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 
Watermelon Rind, Spiced 172 

Mrs. Allen R. Mitchell 



STellieg— famg 



Amber Marmalade 181 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Apricot Marmalade 181 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntire 
CaH's Foot Jelly 177 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 
Conserve, Delicious 182 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
CO. R.R. Jelly 178 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Crabapple Jelly, Spiced 178 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Cranberry Jelly 178 

Miss G. B. Mcllhenny 
Currant Jelly 177 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Grape Jam 178 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Grapefruit Marmalade 180 

Mrs. A bner H. Mershon 



Heavenly Jam 179 

Mrs. Henry P. Costill 
Heavenly Jam 179 

Mrs. Spencer Kennard Mulford 
Marmalade 180 

Mrs. James A . Divelin 
Mint Jelly 178 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 
Orange Marmalade 180 

Miss Annie Heacock 
Orange Marmalade 180 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Orange Marmalade 179 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Orange Marmalade 179 

Mrs. Henry C. Mcllvaine 
Plum Compote 181 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 
Rhubarb Marmalade 181 

Miss Sarah C. Sower 



Cafee 



Ames Cake 224 

Miss Florence E. Taylor 
Angel Cake 225 

Mrs. Edwin B. Newcomer 
Angel Food 226 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Apple Sauce Cake 214 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Apple Sauce Cake 214 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 
Bi-Metallic Cake 218 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 
Black Cake 222 

Mrs. Hugh Mcllvain 



Boston Pound Cake 215 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 
Boston White Cake 203 

Mrs. Frank Battles 
Brown Cake 221 

Mrs. Allen R. Mitchell 
Brown Christmas Cookies (German). 212 

Mrs. William C. Lowry 
Bowl, Cup and Spoon Cake 219 

Mrs. H. H. White 
Burgess Cake 224 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 
Cake, Delicious Plain 225 

Miss Lida Paull Fife 



252 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Cake, Eggless 202 

Mrs. Matthew James Crier 
Cake, Eggless, Butterless, Milkless. . 202 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 
Cake, Eggless, Butterless, Milkless. . 202 

Mrs. George F. Klemni 
Cakes, Fried 220 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Cake, Good Plain (Philadelphia Cook- 
ing School) 226 

Mrs. John J. McCuigan 
Cake, One-Egg 220 

Mrs. Alfred Mar shad 
Caramel Icing 22S 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntyre 
Chester County Cookies 213 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 
Chocolate Brownies 195 

Mrs. Charles Z. Tryon 
Chocolate Cake 192 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 
Chocolate Cake 194 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Chocolate Cake 194 

Miss Jennie S. Potts 
Chocolate Cake 194 

Mrs. William S. Pilling 
Chocolate Cake 195 

Mrs. Edward H. Bonsall 
Chocolate Cake 195 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 
Chocolate Caramel Balls 227 

Mrs. J. Howard Marshall 
Chocolate Layer Cake 193 

Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 
Chocolate Layer Cake 193 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 
Chocolate Nut Frosting 228 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Christmas Cakes, Little 214 

Mrs. Frederick J. McWade 
Christmas Ginger Cakes 198 

Mrs. Mary C. D. Ceisler 
Cinnamon Buns 207 

Mrs. John C. Seltzer 
Cinnamon Bun, Marion Fleck's 207 

Miss Emma Klahr 



PAGE 

Cinnamon Nut Cakes 210 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Cinnamon Rings 209 

Mrs. William, A . Flanigen 
Cocoanut Pound Cake 216 

Mrs. Hugh Mcllvain 
Coffee Cake 205 

Mrs. Richard Peters 
Coffee Cake 205 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 
Coffee Spice Cake 205 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Composition Cake 220 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Cookies without Eggs 203 

Mrs. Caleb S. Middleton 
Cream Sponge Cake 190 

Mrs. Charles H. Woolley 
Crullers 208 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Crullers 208 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Crullers 208 

Mrs. Charles F. Godshall 
Crullers, Aunt Sarah's 208 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 
Devil Cake 217 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Doughnuts 209 

Mrs. Eugene H. Austin 
Doughnuts 209 

Mrs. George H. Vanderbeck 
Doughnuts 210 

Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 
English Cake 224 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood 
English Christmas Cakes 213 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox 
Favorite Cake 217 

Mrs. Walter T. Baird 
French Cookies 213 

Mrs. William B. Campbell 
Fruitcake 185 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 
Fruitcake 188 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 



INDEX 



253 



PAGE 

Fruit Cake 188 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 
Fruit Cake 187 

Countess of Santa Eulalia 
Fruit Cake 186 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Fruitcake 186 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 
Fruit Cake, an Excellent Substitute 

for Real 189 

Mrs. James B. Thomas 
Fruit. Cake, Mrs. S. Rhine's 187 

Mrs. Thomas Shalcross 
Fruit Cake, My 188 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 
Fruit Cookies ^ 189 

Mrs. Grace S. Williams 
Ginger Bread 197 

Mrs. J. Nicholas Mitchell 
Ginger Bread 197 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 
Ginger Bread 197 

Mrs. E. Boyd Weitzel 
Ginger Bread 196 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Ginger Bread, Good Soft 196 

Miss Mary Janney 
Gingerbreads, Mother's Hard 197 

Mrs. Effingham Perot 
Ginger Bread, Soft 196 

Miss A una S. Eckfeldt 
Ginger Cakes 196 

Mrs. George S. Matlack 
Ginger Cakes, Soft 198 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Ginger Pound Cake 198 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Ginger Snaps 199 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Ginger Snaps 199 

Mrs. Kate H. Rowland 
Ginger Snaps, or Molasses Snaps. ... 199 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Hermits 227 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 
Hickory Nut Kisses 211 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 



PAGE 

Icing for Cake, a Good 228 

Mrs. Charles H. Woolley 
' ' Idlewild ' ' Celebrated Sponge Cake . 191 

Miss Mary Janney 
Irish Tea Cake 206 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 
Jam Cake 220 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Jumbles 209 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 
Jumbles 210 

Mrs. C. L. Peirce 
Kisses 227 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Lace Cakes 219 

Mrs. William H. Hollar 
Lady Baltimore Cake 217 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 
Lady Cake, Small 221 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood 
Mandelbrodchen 228 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Marble Cake 204 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Mocha Tarb (Cake) 222 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Mock Lady Baltimore Cake 218 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth 
New Amsterdam Molasses Cake 223 

Mrs. John Gribbel 
Nut Cake, Mrs. Edith C. James' 211 

Mrs. William Shewell Ellis 
Nut Cookies 211 

Miss Mary S. Parry 
Nut Oatmeal Cookies 201 

Mrs. William Wallace 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Miss Elizabeth A. Atkinson 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Mrs. George McKeown 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Oatmeal Cookies 201 

Mrs, Edward F. Kingsley 



254 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Oatmeal Macaroons 201 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Orange Cake 185 

Mrs. Robert Bealtie 
Orange Cake 215 

Mrs. Charles Z. Tryon 
Orange Cake 216 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Orange Shortcake 216 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 
Pecan Wafers 212 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 
Pound Cake 215 

Mrs. Mahlon B. Paxson 
"Riz" Cake 219 

Mrs. Isaac S. Lowry 
"Rocks" 226 

Miss Anne Hey gate-Hall 
Sand Tarts 228 

Mrs. Harrison Souder 
Sand Tarts 227 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Silver Cake 22 1 

Mrs. Andrew M. Eastwick 
Scotch Cakes 217 

Miss Matilda Baird 
"Scripture Cake" 222 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 
Scottish Fancies 201 

Mrs. William S. Pilling 
Spice Cake 204 

Miss Sarah Sellers Bunting 
Spice Cake 205 

Mrs. J. Howard Marshall 
Spice Cake, an Eggless 203 

Mrs. Lewis R. Dick 
Spice Cookies 204 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Sponge Cake 189 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Sponge Cakes 190 

Mrs. George S. Matlack 



PAGE 

Sponge Cake 190 

Mrs. William S. Pilling 
Sponge Cake i9i 

Mrs. Henry T. Dechert 
Sponge Cake 191 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 
Sponge Cake 19I 

Miss Edith Sellers Bunting 
Sponge Cake 192 

Miss Maude G. Hopkins 
Sponge Cake 192 

Miss Sarah Sellers Bunting 
Sponge Cake 193 

Mrs. John Gibson 
Sponge Cake, Never-Failing 190 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 
Sponge Ginger Bread 198 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Swedish Cookies 214 

Mrs. Caleb J. Milne, Jr. 
Swiss Loaf Cake 219 

Mrs. Caleb S. Middleton 
Sugar Cake 225 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 
Taylor Cakes 225 

Miss A nnie Heacock 
Tea Cake 206 

Mrs. Harrison Souder 
Tea Cake 206 

Mrs. Thero?i I. Crane 
Walnut Wafers 211 

Miss Clara Lee Bowman 
Wahiut Wafers 212 

Mrs. Thomas Theodore Watson 
White Cake 202 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
White Cake 203 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 
White Flaked Rice Cakes 224 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 
ZollicofTer or Tutti Frutti Cake 223 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



INDEX 



255 



Canbiess 



Brook Grove Fudge 233 

Aliss Mary Janney 
Caramels 234 

Mrs. Effingham Perot 
Chocolate Caramels 234 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 
Chocolate Caramels 234 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Chocolate Fudge 232 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Fruit Fudge 233 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Fudge 232 

The Misses Longstreth 
Fudge 232 

Mrs. H. G. Michener 
Grapefruit Peel, Candied 234 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 



Grapefruit Rind, Conserved 234 

, Mrs. James B. Thomas 

Marshmallow Fudge 233 

Miss Mary Craig Peacock 
Nut Candy 231 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Nut Chocolates 231 

Miss Alice Pusey Chambers* 
Opera Creams 233 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Sea Foam 23 1 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 
Taffy 232 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Walnut Candy 231 

Mrs. Edwin B. Newcomer 



Petjeragesi 



Blackberry Brandy 238 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Dandelion Wine 239 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Grape Juice 237 

Mrs. Edwin F. Keen 
Grape Juice 238 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 
Grape Juice, Pure 237 

Mrs. E, Boyd Weitzel 



Lemonade, Miss Sally Wheeler John- 
son's 237 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 

Orange Cordial 239 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 

Recette de Talleyrand pour le Cafe. 238 
Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

Temperance Punch 238 

Miss Anne Hollingsworth Wharton 




i! i'lll.'illiil II, 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 480 111 8( 



tmwai 







V 



VTI 



Jgeto Centurp Club poofc . 
of 



THE PHILADELPHIA 

NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BOOK OF RECIPES 

CONTRIBUTED BY MEMBERS 
OF THE CLUB 



COMPILED AND EDITED BY 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

PRESIDENT 




PHILADELPHIA 

THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

1915 



THE NEW YC 
UBLIC LI I 



ASTOR, LENOX AND 
ILDEN F ONS 

16 L 



Copyright, 1915, by 
THE. NEW CENTURY CLUB 



Jforetoorb 

There is high authority for it, that of making of books there is no 
end. Many cook books might easily be a weariness to the flesh; but this 
little book goes forth confident of a welcome. It does not profess to be 
a book on cookery; it is what is far better, a unique collection of tried 
and tested recipes, many of which have been handed down from one 
generation to another and have never before been in print. They have 
been contributed by club members, many of whom have generously 
brought forth from cherished old manuscript books, written by hands 
long vanished, the most favorite family formulas for compounding things 
good to eat. There is a delightful personal quality about these recipes, 
and it is interesting to see how the recipes for the same dish vary. 

It is a beautiful demonstration of the fact that club women are the 
very best home makers. They not only have their useful fingers in many 
public pies, but they look well to the ways of their own households. 

The income from the sale of this Book of Recipes is to be used for 
the purchase of Club china and for other special objects, so that not 
only those who contributed their choice recipes, but each one who buys 
a copy, will have a personal share in adding to the beauty and comfort 
of this beloved club. 

ISABEL MC!LHENNY NICHOLS 



(3) 



Contents; 

PAGE 

BREADS 17 

SOUP 35 

FISH 45 

MEATS 57 

VEGETABLES 77 

ENTREES 85 

PICKLES, RELISHES 93 

SALADS 107 

PUDDINGS 117 

PIES 139 

DESSERTS 153 

ICES 163 

FRUITS PRESERVED, CANNED 169 

JELLIES, JAMS 177 

CAKES 185 

CANDIES 23 1 

BEVERAGES . 237 



(5) 



Sntrobtictton 

Our most cherished possessions are apt to be the family heirlooms, 
the furniture, the hand-made quilts, the old laces of our great-grand- 
mothers. We learned to care for them first, because they were grand- 
mother's; and then we began to learn and understand their worth and 
their beauty. 

Among the personal records, which we have learned to regard as so 
valuable, can be found hand-written receipt books containing those price- 
less recipes which were perfected in some one home and exchanged between 
friends and neighbors. 

We are permitting, in many places, valuable papers and homely 
records of family life to be destroyed and lost. Of the interesting com- 
mittees in some clubs are those called the Landmark Committees, whose 
duty it is to preserve the history and record of the fast-growing town or 
community, its landmarks, whether these be individual or public. This 
work should be encouraged and commended. 

There should be the same measure of congratulation given to any 
club which is preserving for us those valuable, tried and true recipes, 
which have been used by the most notable housekeepers of a community. 
Philadelphia has a reputation for good cooking, and we are all glad to 
welcome a contribution in the actual classics of this particular form of 
literature. Can there not be classic recipes as there are classic poems, and 
for the same reasons? 

In our search for the scientific basis of the art of cooking, in our 
study of its chemistry and physics, we must never lose sight of the fact 
that no matter how much we may know as to why baking powder or 
yeast act as they do, it is of little avail unless our knowledge enables us 
to make a good muffin or good bread each time. Recipes are but the 
worked-out proportions which will produce a desired result. Without 
them we would each have to solve the problem anew for ourselves, and 
today we have not time. There are other more necessary things to do. 

So we welcome this little book from a club of women noted among 
clubs and among women for their good works of many kinds. 

HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON, 
Chairman, Home Economics Department, 
General Federation Women's Clubs 

(7) 



" To be a good cook means the knowledge of all herbs, fruits, balms 
and spices, and all that is healing and sweet in fields and groves and 
savory in meats. It means carefulness, inventiveness, watchfulness, 
willingness and readiness of appliance. It means the economy of your 
great-grandmother and the science of modern chemistry. It means much 
tasting and no wasting; it means English thoroughness, French art and 
Arabian hospitality. It means, in fine, that you are to be perfectly and 
always, ladies, ' loaf -givers, ' and you are to see that everybody has 
something good to eat." RUSKIN. 



(9) 



Recipe for an 3beal Club 

Take two parts of desire for a larger living, or what we term cul- 
ture, and two parts of intelligent interest in the vital questions of the 
day, and mix them with enough sociability to make a light sponge, and 
set it away to rise. When it has risen to about twice the original bulk, 
add some carefully picked officers and directors washed in the waters 
of self -sacrifice and plentifully dredged with perseverance. Then add one 
part civic work, or as much as your town (or state) requires, and one part 
philanthropic activity; allow a gospel measure of the genial spirit of reci- 
procity for sweetening, and cream it up with fresh, rich thought and pour 
it in ; add enough of the milk of human kindness to make a smooth batter. 
Take a whole heart full of enthusiasm, and dilute it with a little common 
sense, and when the alkali of the enthusiasm unites with the acid of com- 
mon sense in a foaming mass stir it quickly into the mixture. Then 
add your spices womanliness, tact, humor, broad-mindedness and talent 
with a dash of difference of opinion. 

Now take a dozen fresh committees, and beat them up well beat 
them up until they are stiff enough to stand alone, and toss them in; 
then throw in your afternoon programs not too full, as they must have 
room enough to swell up, with animated discussion. Lastly add your 
flavoring Robert Browning's extract of optimism, though some prefer 
Emerson's. There is also a new article on the market, which many use 
and consider equal to optimism, known as Fletcherism; but any good 
optimism will do. 

Now beat the whole up well with individual effort and on this the 
whole success of the club depends. When thoroughly beaten, pour it 
into a large vessel of opportunity, which has been previously well greased 
with Roberts' Rules of Order to keep it from sticking, and set it in a com- 
fortable clubhouse for from one and a half to two hours it depends upon 
the temperament manifested. Test it by inserting a splint from the broom 
of experience, which splint, when the club is done, must come out clean 
and shining. When it has cooled a little, make an icing of afternoon teas, 
lectures, and various entertainments, and spread thickly over the top. 
This will make a feast of reason and a flow of soul for about one hundred 
members. Serve it once a week or every two weeks. 

ELIZABETH A. CORNETT, 
Woman's Club, Phoenixville, Pa. 

(ID 



(grace Before Jffleat 

JOHN CENNICK, 1741 

Be present at our table, Lord, 
Be here and everywhere ador'd : 
Thy creatures bless, and grant that we, 
May feast in Paradise with Thee. 

Contributed by MRS. THOMAS J. GARLAND 



(13) 



To make your needy bread, and give them life. PERICLES. 



(15) 



BREAD 

1 quart milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 quart water 2 tablespoons lard 

1 tablespoon (heaping) salt 1 yeast cake 

Scald the milk and turn into the bread pan; add the salt, sugar, 
and lard; stir until melted; add the water (lukewarm), then add the 
yeast cake, which has been dissolved in lukewarm water. Then add 
enough flour to make a batter, beat thoroughly for fifteen minutes, or 
until batter is full of air bubbles ; then add enough flour to make a dough. 
Take it out on a baking board as soon as it is stiff enough to do so, and 
knead quickly and lightly for 45 minutes. Use as little flour as possible, 
just enough to keep it from sticking to the board or hands. If a bread 
mixer is used, less time is required than when kneading with the hands. 
Now put it back into the bread pan, cover, and let stand in a warm place 
until morning; it should then have more than doubled its bulk. Mould 
into loaves, knead each loaf, put into greased pans, and stand away until 
light. Bake in a moderately quick oven for 1 hour and 10 minutes. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

NUT BREAD 

1 cup nuts, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk a /2 cup sugar 

2 eggs 4 cups white flour 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix well together and let stand 20 minutes, then put in two small 
bread pans and bake ^4 of an hour. 

Miss GERTRUDE A. BARRETT 

NUT BREAD 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon melted butter 

1 egg 4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

1 1 /2 cups milk 4 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup chopped (not ground) English 

walnut kernels 

Beat sugar and egg together. Walnut kernels should be mixed with 
a little flour. Stand 20 minutes. Bake in slow oven 1 hour. 

MRS. MARY C. D. GEISLER 

2 (17) 



18 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

NUT BREAD 

l /4 cup brown sugar 2 cups Graham flour 

Va cup molasses 1 cup white flour 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup chopped walnuts 

2 cups milk (sweet or sour) A little salt 

This should be made the day before it is to be used. 

MRS. FRANK H. BURPEE 

NUT BREAD 

4 cups whole wheat flour 1 pound chopped English walnuts 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups milk 

Sift flour, sugar and baking powder through flour sifter. Mix dry 
ingredients thoroughly. Beat eggs, add milk and pour into flour; stir 
thoroughly. Bake in moderate oven, \ l / hours for large loaf; for two 
small loaves, ^ hour. 

MRS. LEON S. DEXTER 

NUT BREAD 

1 cup scalded milk 1 cup white flour 

3 /4 cake yeast 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup whole wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (even) English walnut meats 

When milk is cooled stir in yeast. Set to rise, keeping very warm 
for about an hour. When light, add sugar, salt and walnut meats (broken) ; 
then add enough whole wheat flour to make a batter stiff enough to spoon 
out into a buttered basin. Let rise again and bake about 45 minutes. 

MRS. LAURA CHANDLER BOOTH, 
President, The New Century Club of Kennett Square, Pa. 

NUT BREAD 

1 egg 4 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

H/2 cups milk A pinch of salt 

iVfe cups chopped English walnuts 

Let raise 20 minutes, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. 
This will make two small loaves. This makes very good sandwiches, 
spread either with butter or cheese. 

MRS. ABNER H. MERSHON 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



19 



NUT BREAD 



3 cups Graham or whole wheat flour 
1 cup white flour 

1 cup sugar 

4 teaspoons baking powder 



1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk 

1 cup walnuts (chopped) 
1 egg 



The nuts are prepared and chopped. Mix the dry ingredients 
and add the chopped nuts, Add the egg well beaten and the milk. 
Pour into a well-greased pan and let it rise 20 minutes and bake 50 
minutes to 1 hour in a moderate oven. This makes one loaf. Sliced 
very thin and buttered it is delicious with afternoon tea. 

MRS. JOHN I. McGuiGAN 



2 cups white flour 
2 cups Graham flour 
1/2 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 



QUICK NUT BREAD 

1 cup nuts 

4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 
1 egg 

11/2 cups milk 
1 tablespoon melted butter 

MRS. THOMAS RAEBURN WHITE 



OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH CAKE 



1 yeast cake 

2 eggs 

1 pint milk 

*/2 P m * fi ne granulated sugar 



!/2 pint pitted raisins 

1 spoon each of lard and butter, mixed 

l /4 nutmeg, grated 

!/2 teaspoon salt 



Put the milk on to scald (do not let it boil) ; while this is being done, 
beat the eggs together until very light. As soon as the milk is scalded 
take it from the fire and immediately add eggs and shortening; then 
stand this aside to cool; then add sugar, salt and yeast and sufficient 
flour for a very thin sponge. Set the sponge at night. In the morning 
add raisins, well floured, then add more flour to make a dough, not quite 
so stiff as for bread. Knead very little. Cover and set aside for a few 
hours (according to the weather) until it has become light, after which 
divide, with well-floured hands, into two loaves as quickly as possible, 
without kneading; then place in greased pans and set in a warm place to 
get light. Bake in a moderately hot oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

MRS. HENRY DELAPLAINE 



20 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DUTCH CAKE 

On baking day when bread is ready for pans take enough for small 
loaf and with it mix 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon lard 

1 cup sugar Raisins to taste 

Beat well. Set to rise. When light take 

l / 2 cup brown sugar Butter the size of a big walnut 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

Spread on top and bake. 

MRS. GEORGE H. VANDERBECK 



GRAHAM BREAD 

J /2 pint corn meal 2 teaspoons salt 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon molasses 

1 yeast cake 

Make corn meal into a thin mush, add water, salt and molasses. 
Make a thick batter with unbolted flour, adding 1 basting spoonful of 
wheat flour; add yeast cake and let rise in the bread pans. When light 
bake in 'a moderate oven. This makes four small loaves. 

MRS. LEWIS F. SHOEMAKER 



GRAHAM BREAD 

(This is recommended by a physician as especially wholesome; con- 
veniently made because baked immediately after mixing.) 

5 cups Graham flour 1 cup corn meal 

1 cup white flour 2 teaspoons (level) salt 

Mix these dry ingredients, then add two level teaspoons baking 
soda, dissolved in 

V 4 cup warm molasses 2 cups sweet milk 

2 cups sour milk 

If necessary, water may be substituted largely for the sweet milk. 
Bake in a slow oven \% to 2 hours. 

MRS. H. H. WHITE, 
President, New Century Club of Pottstown, Pa. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 21 

GRAHAM BREAD 

(An excellent health bread which I am using in my own family 
with good results.) 

2 cups Graham flour l l / 2 cups milk 

2 cups bran (Educator) flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt l /2 cup New Orleans molasses 

Mix Graham flour, bran flour and salt in one bowl. Mix milk, bak- 
ing powder and molasses in another bowl and add to the first. Bake 
1 hour in slow oven. Do not beat or knead. Just stir like a cake. 

MRS. A. W. ROBINSON 



STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

cups Graham flour 1 pint sweet milk 

2 cups corn meal V 2 teaspoon soda 

y 2 cup molasses Salt, and sprinkle of ginger 

Steam 3 hours. 

MRS. W. DUFFIELD ROBINSON 



MY GRANDMOTHER'S CORN BREAD 

1 cup (small) sugar 2 cups corn meal (sifted with wheat 

2 eggs with salt, beaten hard flour) 

2 cups wheat flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups sweet milk 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix sugar and eggs in milk, then add flour and corn meal sifted 
together. Steam 1 hour, and put in oven for 10 minutes. 

MRS. JOHN D. MC!LHENNY 



BATTER BREAD OR CORN PONE 

1 pint milk', scalded (not boiled) 1 cup cold rice or hominy (cooked) 

1 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Piece of melted butter Salt to taste 

Pour milk over corn meal. When cool, stir in eggs, melted butter, 
and rice or hominy. Just before putting into oven add baking powder. 
Use pudding dish and bake 30 minutes. 

MRS. ELMORE C. HINE 



22 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD 

1 pound flour Vi pound sugar 

1/2 pound butter 2 ounces rice flour 

Rub the butter into flour and sugar, divide in two cakes, pinch the 
edges, prick the center with a fork, and bake slowly in a moderate oven 
till brown. MRS. A. GALLATIN TALBOTT 



CHRISTMAS BREAD 

(Mary R. Hey gate-Hall's Recipe) 

! 3 /4 pounds flour 2 ounces lard 

1 pound currants, seeded 2 eggs 

3 /i pound raisins 1/2 ounce cream of tartar 

3 /4 pound sugar Vi ounce baking soda 
l /2 pound citron or 

l /4 pound orange peel 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 ounces butter 1 pint milk 

Bake in bread pans. Miss ANNE HEYGATE-HALL 

BATH BREAD 

1 pound flour 3 eggs (yolks) 

l /4 pound sugar 2 ounces currants 

Vi pound butter 1 yeast cake 

Sprinkle of nutmeg 

Set over night, with warm milk enough to make a batter you can 
beat. Let rise, put flour on board, take out with spoon, rub in flour and 
shape. Let rise again, and bake. MRS. ALFRED MELLOR 

BREAD CAKES 

1 pint milk 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 quart stale bread 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (small) flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Break the bread in small pieces, soak over night in the milk. In the 
morning beat into this the flour, eggs, salt, sugar and baking powder. 
Add enough milk to make the cakes form on griddle. Do not have 
batter too thick. Serves 4 to 6 people. 

Miss HELEN A. CHILDS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 23 

SPOON BREAD 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup cooked hominy grits 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons white corn meal 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon butter 

After mixing, bake in shallow tin. 

MRS. Louis H. MUTSCHLER 



SPOON BREAD 

1 cup cooked hominy 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons corn meal 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter 4 eggs 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately. Mix all well together 
and bake in oven. A Southern dish. 

MRS. MARY S. JOHNSON 

VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD 

1 pint milk 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 teacup yellow corn meal Salt 

Butter the size of an egg 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Boil the milk, stir in corn meal; let stand for a few minutes. Add 
melted butter, eggs, salt and baking powder. Bake in oven about 25 
minutes. The medium grade of corn meal is better than the fine. 

MRS. CHARLES H. GUILBERT 

BEDFORD ROLLS (Wonderful) 

V 2 pint milk (good measure) 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lard 1 teaspoon sugar 

1/2 yeast cake 

Melt lard and milk together. Make soft batter (as for rusk); add 
yeast dissolved in warm water. In winter, start at 11 A. M. At 4 p. M. 
it will be "light as a feather." Make soft dough. By 5 p. M. it will be 
ready to roll out. Cut with cake tin don't handle much. Put, not 
touching each other, into greased pans. Bake 20 minutes in hot oven. 
Serve hot at 6 p. M. This will make 12 to 15 lovely rolls. 

DR. FRANCES N. BAKER 



24 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ANNA'S DINNER OR LUNCH ROLLS 

1 yeast cake 2 tablespoons lard or butter 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled White of 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 cups sifted flour 

l /2 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk. Add white of egg 
beaten till stiff, the flour gradually, the lard or butter, and lastly the 
salt, keeping dough soft. Knead lightly, using as little flour in kneading 
as possible. Place in a well-greased bowl. Cover and set to rise in a 
warm place, free from draft, until it doubles in bulk (about 2 hours). 
Mould into rolls the size of walnuts. Place far apart in well-greased pans, 
protect from draft and let rise }4 hour, or until light. Glaze with white 
of egg diluted with water. Bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 

It makes very pretty little rolls to put three balls of dough about the 
size of a good-sized marble into muffin rings or patty pans and bake. It 
comes out a clover leaf shape. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

TEA ROLLS 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cake Vienna yeast 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 

Warm milk slightly and in it dissolve yeast cake. Add flour to make 
a sponge about as thick as for batter cakes. Set in a warm place for 
2 hours, then add butter, sugar, salt, and flour to make a dough. Knead 
until it cracks and does not stick to hands. Let it rise 2 hours more, then 
roll out about one-half inch thick and cut with small biscuit cutter. Allow 
to rise in pans about 2 hours and bake in very quick oven first put on 
bottom and then top of oven. 

MRS. WILLIAM BURNHAM 

BREAKFAST BISCUITS 

2 cups flour A little salt 

11/2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup milk 

Sift baking powder, sugar and salt with the flour. Work butter in 
very lightly, stir in milk, roll gently, cut with biscuit cutter and bake in 
quick oven 15 minutes. MRS. THERON I. CRANE 



BOOKOFRECIPES 25 

SWEET POTATO BISCUIT 

iy 2 pounds sweet potatoes Flour enough to make a sponge 

1 pint milk 6 ounces lard 

1/2 cup (large) yeast A little salt 

Boil and strain the sweet potatoes through a colander; pour hot 
milk over them; add flour. Let it rise from nine o'clock until eleven, 
then add lard and salt. Work well for half an hour, let it rise again, 
and bake. Biscuits will be improved if moulded 2 hours before baking. 

MRS. H. L. WAYLAND 

MILK BISCUIT 

1 quart fresh milk Butter the size of a walnut 

1 yeast cake A little sugar and salt 

Put yeast cake in half a tumbler of tepid water with teaspoon of sugar. 
Set it in a warm place (not too hot) until the yeast rises, then put it in 
warm milk, add butter and flour to make a nice sponge; beat thoroughly 
and let sponge rise ; then add salt and more flour, just enough to knead, 
and set in warm place. When light, make into small biscuits with biscuit 
cutter; brush over with milk before putting them in oven. This quan- 
tity will make two large pans of biscuits. MRS. ISAAC H. CLOTHIER 

ELLEN'S BISCUITS 

1 pint flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1/2 pint milk l /z teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter Vi teaspoon salt 

Sift baking powder into flour, rub in the butter with hands, add 
milk last. Turn out on board and roll only enough to smooth top, very 
lightly. Cut and bake at once in quick oven. Speed and light touch 
required. MRS. C. L. PEIRCE 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 eggs 1V2 tablespoons lard 
1/2 pint milk V teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat eggs, sugar and lard smooth, then add milk. Add sufficient 
flour to make a batter not too stiff. Bake in well-greased muffin tins in 
a hot oven. Miss ELIZABETH BUNTING COLLIER 



26 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

POPOVERS 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

1 cup flour l /z teaspoon salt 

Bake 30 to 40 minutes in moderate oven, in small brown bowls half 
full. One of our old family recipes, and delicious. 

MRS. EDWARD F. KINGSLEY 



MRS. CHARLES D. B. BARNEY'S CREAM MUFFINS 

3 tablespoons (level) butter 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar Vz teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 cups flour 

4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

Cream the butter, add sugar, separate eggs, beat the whites and add 
them to the unbeaten yolks; to the butter and sugar add the milk, salt, 
flour and baking powder; then add the eggs. Fill greased muffin pans 
two-thirds full and bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. Substitute corn 
meal, rye or Graham flour for 1 cup of the wheat flour, and you will have 
the different muffins. It is excellent also for cottage pudding. 

Miss MARY JANNEY 

OLD-FASHIONED MUFFINS 

2 cups flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 pint milk (warm) 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Made in rings on griddle on top of stove to brown on under side. 
Make a thick batter and fill the rings half full. Turn over when rings 
are filled and browned. 

Miss EMILY CAMPBELL 

QUEEN MUFFINS 

Vi cup butter 1 cup milk 

1 egg 1V 2 cups flour 

l /3 cup sugar l l / 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Sift all dry materials, work in butter with tips of fingers. Add egg 
well beaten with the milk. Cook in hot oven 10 minutes. Put in gem 
pans about half full to allow for raising. 

MRS. WILLIAM A. WIEDERSEIM 



BOOK OF RECIPES 27 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups flour 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

li/2 teaspoons baking powder 

Beat the eggs and sugar together with a spoon, add the milk and 
salt, then stir the flour in very smooth. After the batter is smooth, put 
in the melted butter. Last of all, add the baking powder, but do not stir 
or beat the batter much after the baking powder is in. Bake from 15 to 
20 minutes. MRS. WILLIAM P. POTTER 



GRAHAM GEMS 

2 eggs, beaten light 2 cups Graham flour 

2 cups milk Vi teaspoon salt 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Mix the ingre- 
dients thoroughly and beat light. Heat the gem pans and butter them, 
then pour in the mixture and bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. Use no 
baking powder. Miss VIRGINIA HARTSHORNE 

GEMS 

1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup water 1/2 cup milk 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 cup flour 

Beat the egg light, yolk and whites together; put in the milk, add 
the flour, water, salt and butter melted. Have gem tins warm, put in 
batter. They are just like a popover must be eaten as they come from 
the oven. 

MRS. WILLIAM P. ELWELL 



SALLY LUNN 

11/2 pints milk 5 ounces butter and lard mixed 

2*/4 pounds flour A little salt 

5 eggs 11/2 tablespoons sugar 

1/2 yeast cake 

Put at once into greased pans and let rise for about 7 hours. An 
old recipe from Mrs. Alfred Paull of Wheeling, West Virginia. 

Miss LIDA PAULL FIFE 



28 NEW CENTURY CLUB 



SALLY LUNN 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups flour 

1 egg (beaten separately) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

MRS. DANIEL R. HARPER 



VIRGINIA SALLY LUNN 



pounds flour 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 pint new milk 1/2 yeast cake 
Vz CU P butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Melt the butter and add to milk, then pour over the sifted flour; 
add the eggs, yeast (dissolved) and salt. Mix all together in a batter 
rather stiffer than that for cake, and pour in large cake mould or pans 
well greased. Set in warm place to rise, and when very light bake in 
moderate oven for nearly an hour. 

Miss MARY JANNEY 

CINNAMON BUN 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon salt 2 cups granulated sugar 

1 tablespoon (heaping) lard Flour 

3 cups milk and water (scalding) Seedless raisins and currants 

2 yeast cakes Nutmeg and cinnamon 

Put sugar, salt and lard into a four-quart bowl. Pour over it milk 
and water. When cool add yeast cakes dissolved in 1 cup of lukewarm 
water and stir in enough flour to make a rather stiff batter. 

When it rises two thirds of the way to the top of the bowl, stir in 
eggs beaten well into sugar and a little nutmeg, and add a little more 
flour. When it rises to the top of the bowl, knead with a little flour. 
Take off a portion a little larger than the fist and roll out on the board 
about one half inch thick. Spread thickly with soft butter, and about 
three-quarter inch thick with dark brown sugar; cover with seedless 
raisins and currants, and sprinkle thickly with powdered cinnamon. 
Roll up like a jelly roll; cut off slices two inches thick and stand on end 
in a deep pan well greased with lard. Shake cinnamon over the top and 
let rise again. When light bake in a very slow oven (thermometer 6) 
for nearly an hour, and turn out immediately on buttered plates. 

MRS. DANIEL R. HARPER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 29 

CINNAMON BUNS 

l /4 pound sugar V4 ounce salt 

Vi pound butter Vfe ounce yeast 

3 eggs 1 pint lukewarm water 

Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs and salt. Dissolve yeast 
in water, and add flour enough to make a warm dough. Let it stand 
over night in a warm place, of about 70 degrees. In morning roll dough 
out to about quarter of an inch thick. Spread with melted butter, sugar, 
cinnamon and currants. Roll and cut in pieces and put in well-greased 
pan. Put sugar in greased pan before putting in buns. Let rise until 
light and bake in moderate oven for about 1 hour. Be careful that oven 
is not too hot. 

This will make about two dozen cinnamon buns. 

Miss ABBY A. SUTHERLAND 



SPANISH BUN 

l /4 pound butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 pound sugar 4 eggs 

% pound flour (sifted) 1 cup cream 

l l /2 cups cleaned currants 

Beat the butter, sugar and yolks well together. Then add cream and 
whites, well beaten; stir in flour with baking powder mixed in it. Last, 
the currants mixed with a tablespoon of flour to keep them from sticking. 
Bake in round bread pans not too large. 

MRS. J. GIBSON MC!LVAIN 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

! /2 pound flour % pint milk (nearly) 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt > 1 tablespoon melted butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 4 tablespoons boiled cream of wheat or 

boiled rice 

Stir flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together and slowly add 
the milk. Beat until very smooth. Add the yolk (beaten) of the egg. 
Then stir in the cream of wheat or rice and beat until smooth. Add the 
melted butter and fold in the stiff beaten whites of the eggs. This makes 
about 6 griddles of 4 small cakes. 

MRS. HARRY A. HORNOR 



30 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OLD-FASHIONED BUCKWHEAT CAKES 



1 quart buckwheat flour 1 % pints warm water 

1 tablespoon New Orleans molasses V 2 yeast cake dissolved in 

1 small tablespoon salt V 2 cup warm water 

Pour gradually on the flour, mix carefully, beat hard, cover, and set 
to rise for about 6 hours. Bake on hot griddle. Serve on a cold winter 
night with sausage that has been parboiled before browning it. 

MRS. EUGENE H. AUSTIN 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

3 3 /4 cups buckwheat flour 2 large spoons New Orleans molasses 

1 level teaspoon salt 1 yeast cake 

1/2 teaspoon baking soda Cold water, enough to make a batter 

Beat thoroughly. Dissolve yeast cake in y* cup of lukewarm water, 
mix and let rise over night. In the morning add baking soda, dissolved 
in boiling water. Bake thoroughly on hot griddle. 

MlSS G. B. MclLHENNY 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 
1/2 yeast cake Buckwheat 



Mix enough buckwheat in 1^ cups of water to make a rather stiff 
batter; add yeast dissolved in a little warm water. Stand in a warm 
place over night. In the morning, add 

1 tablespoon molasses 1 egg 

Salt Va teaspoon baking soda 

Thin with milk quite thin. A recipe from the South which we 
have used many years quite successfully. 

MRS. LIVINGSTON E. JONES 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups buckwheat flour 2 to 3 cups lukewarm water 
1/2 cup white flour l /2 yeast cake 

l /2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon molasses 

Vz teaspoon soda (just before baking) 

Beat thoroughly and set to rise over night. Mix in order given above, 
molasses as well as soda to be added in the morning. 

Miss HELEN LIPPINCOTT 



BOOK OF RECIPES 31 

FLUME HOUSE FLANNEL CAKES 

l /2 cup yeast Vz cup (short) butter 

11/2 cups new milk 1 tablespoon granulated sugar 

3 cups flour 

Warm the milk and melt the butter in it, then put in the flour, sugar 
and a little salt. Let stand over night. In the morning put into gem 
pans, let stand 1 hour to rise, then bake }4 hour in a quick oven. An old 
and well-tried recipe, and not taken from any receipt book. 

MRS. S. BERNARD CHAMBERS 



CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 pint corn meal 1 tablespoon molasses 

1 Vfe pints milk i/ 2 cup flour 

2 eggs 1 scant spoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

Put corn meal in mixing pan, add salt. Scald the milk, add butter 
when hot, pour over corn meal and beat well; add molasses. Let it cool, 
then add flour, well-beaten eggs and baking powder. Keep in a cool 
place and it will be good for four or five days if not all needed at one meal. 

MRS. C. L. HUTCHINSON 



" SCHECKEN " 

1 yeast cake 3 cups flour (sifted) 

1 cup milk (scalded and cooled) l / 2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar Brown sugar 

2 tablespoons butter (melted) White of 1 egg 

Raisins and nuts 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk. Add beaten egg, then 
the flour gradually, then butter and salt, leaving dough as soft as can be 
handled. Place in bowl, and allow it to raise about two hours. When 
light roll out as thin as pie crust. Spread with melted butter, brown sugar 
and raisins very thickly. Roll tightly and slice in about half -inch slices. 
Pour melted butter in cake tins, sprinkle heavily with nuts, brown sugar 
and cinnamon. When done turn out on waxed paper immediately 
upon removing from oven. The bottom of roll should be top when 
served. The quantity of nuts and raisins used depends upon the taste 
or judgment of the cook. 

MRS. EDWIN MARTIN 



32 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

WAFFLES 

3 eggs 3 teacups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 quart milk 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder 

Beat the eggs and salt together until light. Into the beaten eggs, 
stir most of the flour and part of the milk. Beat well until it bubbles 
and is very light, then add the butter, the baking powder in the rest of 
the flour and the rest of the milk. Bake in hot waffle irons. Half this 
quantity for a small family. 

MRS. ROBERT P. BROWN 

FRENCH WAFFLES 

3 l /2 cups flour 1 tablespoon butter 

l l /2 cups milk 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs l l /2 teaspoons baking powder 

Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately. With other ingredients 
mix well together and beat very light. Grease the waffle iron just once 
at the beginning. Have iron very hot. This will serve 6 people. 

Miss EMMA R. JACK 

WAFFLES 

4 eggs 1 quart rich milk 

3y 2 scant cups flour (after it is sifted) 4 teaspoons (heaping) baking powder 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately. Beat yolks, then add 
milk and flour; mix baking powder through flour. Beat whites of eggs 
very light and stir very little after adding to batter. 

MRS. C. WlLMER MlDDLETON 



Boil thou first i' the charmed pot. MACBETH. 



(33) 



TOMATO SOUP 

1 quart tomatoes 3 tablespoons sugar 
V^ onion 3 pints water 

2 ounces flour */2 pint milk 

4 ounces butter Salt and pepper 

Boil tomatoes and onion in water ^ of an hour; add salt, pepper and 
sugar. Rub butter and flour together until very smooth. Boil all together 
10 minutes. Boil milk separately. When both are boiling, pour the 
milk into the tomatoes very slowly. Serve with croutons or Swedish 
milk biscuit. MRS. C. WILMER MIDDLETON 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

l /2 cup water 2 tablespoons butter 

4 cloves 3 tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion 

Cook tomatoes, water, cloves and onion 20 minutes, strain, bind with 
butter and flour rubbed together and strain into tureen. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 

ONION SOUP 

Cut up 4 onions. Fry in % cup of butter until soft but not browned. 
Put in casserole, cover with 2 quarts of rich stock, add parsley. Put cover 
on casserole and bake for 1 hour. Pieces of toast in casserole, one for 
each person at time of serving, or serve in bouillon cups. 

MRS. MORGAN BUNTING 

ONION SOUP 

Cut three large onions (white) into slices, put into saucepan with 
a pat of butter, salt and sugar, fry to a light brown. Sprinkle over some 
flour, pour in 3 cups boiling water, add a few sprays of parsley, small 
bay leaf, little salt, boil quickly about 5 minutes, thicken soup with 
yolks of 3 eggs. Warm it up without letting it boil, add a little butter 
in bits, take out bay leaf and parsley, place slice of toast in soup plate, 
sprinkle a bit of pepper, pour over soup, grate Parmesan cheese over top. 
If small onions are used more than three would be necessary. 

MRS. EDWARD L. REYNOLDS 

(35) 



36 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ONION SOUP WITH CHEESE (Italian) 

Make a veal stock. When ready to use fry 4 large onions cut very 
thin, in little butter put at once into tureen, pour over this the hot veal 
stock, having already prepared thin round pieces of toast, thickly covered 
with grated Swiss cheese (y^ pound), which are placed at once in the 
soup. Cover immediately, as the steam from soup causes the cheese 
to melt, and serve at once from the tureen. Any cheese left over may 
be added to the soup. The excellence of this soup depends on quick 
preparation and immediate service. MRS. WILLIAM B. CAMPBELL 

SPINACH SOUP 

1 quart spinach 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 quarts milk 4 ounces butter 

Pepper, salt and mace 

Boil spinach until tender, chop and put through a sieve. Boil the 
milk, flavor with salt, pepper and mace; add cornstarch for thickening; 
put in the spinach and butter. Boil up once and serve. 

THE MISSES ESHERICK 

SPINACH SOUP 

1 quart spinach 2 tablespoons flour 

2 quarts milk y 4 pound butter 

Salt, pepper and mace 

Boil spinach till tender; chop and put through sieve. Boil milk; 
flavor with salt, pepper and mace. Rub together flour and butter, stir 
into milk, which should be in double boiler; add spinach, which must 
be very fine and not "stringy," and boil up once. 

MRS. JOSEPH PETTIT 

CLAJVE PUREE 

30 clams 1 tablespoon flour 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon butter 

J /2 cup cream 1 teaspoon salt 

A dash of paprika 

Mash the clams through a colander and heat in a saucepan. Mix 
flour and butter and then the cream and stir into the milk already heated 
in a double boiler. Stir the dressing into the hot clams, but do not cook 
the clams. This is for 6 people. MRS. C. P. TURNER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 37 

CLAM SOUP 

3 potatoes, cut fine 2 quarts water 

1 cup corn 18 clams, chopped 

1 cup tomatoes 1 quart milk 

1 onion, cut fine 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon butter 

Cook the vegetables \% hours in water. Have ready the hot milk, 
thicken it with the butter and flour rubbed together; then add clams, 
cook 5 minutes; then add the vegetable soup and let remain at low 
temperature for 5 minutes. Serve at once. MRS. C. L. PEIRCE 

CAROLINE'S BISQUE OF CLAM 

50 clams A few pepper corns 

1 quart water 1 quart fresh sweet milk 

Small pinch of onion 1 tablespoon butter 

Sprig of parsley 2 tablespoons flour 

Chop the clams fine, put in the water, with a small pinch of onion, 
sprig of parsley and a few pepper corns; simmer for 2 hours. Put the 
milk in a farina boiler, rub the butter and flour together, stir into the 
milk and let it simmer slowly. Add thickened milk last. Do not allow 
it to boil after milk is added. Strain and serve. Do not use* the 
clam juice. MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 bay leaf 1 blade mace 

l /4 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 pint stewed tomatoes (strained) 2 tablespoons flour 

or 1 saltspoon pepper 

1 pint canned tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

Put the tomatoes into a saucepan with the bay leaf and mace. Cover 
and stand on the back of the stove for 15 minutes. Put the milk in a 
double boiler. Rub the butter and flour together, soften with a little 
of the milk, then add it to the hot milk and stir constantly until it is of 
a creamy thickness. Strain the tomatoes into a soup tureen; add the 
sugar and soda and pour in quickly the hot milk; stir lightly and serve 
immediately. This soup must not be cooked after the milk and tomatoes 
are mixed- the acid- of the tomato will curdle the milk. Add the salt 
and pepper. MRS. SARAH WALKER DUNCAN 



38 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

1 pint black beans l /& teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts cold water Vi teaspoon mustard 

1 small onion A few grains of cayenne pepper 

2 stalks celery 3 tablespoons butter 

or 11/2 tablespoons flour 

V4 teaspoon celery salt 2 hard-boiled eggs 

l /2 teaspoon salt 1 lemon 

Soak beans over night; in the morning drain and add cold water. 
Slice onion, and cook 5 minutes with half the butter, adding to beans, 
with celery stalks broken in pieces. Simmer 3 or 4 hours, or until beans 
are soft. Add more water as water boils away. Put through a sieve, 
re-heat to the boiling point, and add salt, pepper, mustard and cayenne 
pepper well mixed. Bind with remaining butter and flour cooked together. 
Cut eggs in thin slices, and lemon in thin slices, removing seeds. Pour 
soup over them. MRS. THOMAS RAEBURN WHITE 

MOTHER'S MUTTON BROTH 

1 knuckle of mutton, well broken 1 pint rich milk 

1 pound mutton necks, well broken 1 tablespoon rice 

1 quart cold water 1 teaspoon parsley 

Place all in a pot and slowly bring to a boil, then let simmer until 
the liquid is down to a pint. Strain this pint of liquid and add it to the 
milk, hot, in a double boiler. Now add the rice and let it heat in the 
boiler until rice is soft and perfectly done, which ought to be in about 
one-half hour. Flavor with the finely minced parsley about ten minutes 
before it is done, if it is to be served for the table, but if for the sick-room 
omit parsley. MRS. JOHN GRIBBEL 

WHITE HOUSE BOUILLON 

4 pounds lean beef 1 bunch parsley (small) 

1 teaspoon celery seed 4 blades mace 

2 onions 12 cloves 

2 carrots 2 eggs (whites) 

Boil the beef 4 hours in 4 quarts of water. Then add celery seed, 
onions, carrots, parsley, mace and cloves, and boil until these are tender. 
Then strain through a bag and return to kettle, adding the beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Boil until clear, straining through bag again, when the bouillon 
is ready to serve. (Mrs. Harrison.) MRS. JOSEPHINE L. ADAMS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 39 

PEANUT SOUP 

5 cents worth of peanuts (ground) 1 teaspoon flour 

1 pint chicken stock Butter the size of a small egg 

1 pint cream 1 egg 

Add the peanuts to the boiling stock, let this boil 3 minutes, then 
add cream. When at boiling point, add the flour rubbed into the butter. 
Let this boil a minute or two, watching closely. Just before removing 
from fire add an egg, beaten, "and you have soup fit to serve kings!" 

DR. FRANCES N. BAKER 



CHICKEN JELLY 

1 chicken iVa quarts water 



Cut a chicken into small pieces; pound the bones with a hammer 
until they are crushed; put into a quart and a pint of cold water, and let 
it boil well until the chicken falls to shreds. Skim the fat off while it 
boils. Strain it and put the soup away until it jellies. Cut off and warm 
as wanted or eat cold. 

MARY E. B. PEROT 



BEEF SOUP 

(Excellent for invalids, or at any time) 

l l / 2 pounds good beef (from bottom of 1 quart cold water 

round) Season with pepper and salt 

Have beef cut in squares, trim off all fat. Let stand for 3 hours at 
back of range. Don't let it boil until just before it is ready to serve. 
Then season and strain. 

MRS. SAMUEL SCOVILLE, JR. 



PALATABLE SUMMER SOUP 

Take some water from each vegetable that one boils (peas, spinach, 
tomatoes, beans, cauliflower), put in a pot with onion and parsley, and 
let cook until onion is done, season to taste; add egg, beaten light and 
serve at once. A standard German health cooking formula. 

MRS. C. SHILLARD-SMITH 



40 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



FISH CHOWDER 



2 pounds fresh fish (any kind) 
2 slices salt pork or bacon 
2 sliced potatoes 
2 onions 



1 quart fresh milk 

1 tablespoon butter and flour 

Parsley 

Salt and pepper 



Parboil the fish, scrape off the skin and pick out the bones, leaving 
the fish in pieces about as big as an almond. Boil salt pork or bacon, 
cut in dice, with sliced potatoes and onions, in a small quantity of water. 
When nearly tender add the fish and boil till all the ingredients are done; 
add salt and pepper to taste. Boil in a double boiler the fresh milk 
thickened with the butter and flour rubbed together. Stir in the other 
ingredients and add chopped parsley. MRS. JOHN L. APPLETON 



SOUP A LA REINE 



1 chicken 
*/2 cup rice 
1 small carrot 

1 bay leaf 

2 cloves 
Pinch of salt 



2 quarts water 
1 pint cream 
1 small onion 
Small piece of celery 
Small piece of mace 
Butter 



Clean chicken, put in water with rice, bay leaf, mace and cloves; 
simmer gently 2 hours. Clean vegetables, cut in squares. Put butter 
in frying pan; when hot, throw in vegetables and stir until a delicate 
brown; skim them out, put in the soup kettle and simmer 1 hour longer. 
Now add the flour to the butter in the frying pan, mix and stir into the 
soup. Skim as it boils after adding the butter. Now take out the 
chicken, remove the white meat, chop very fine and put back in the soup. 
Remove the carrot, spices, etc., press the rest through a sieve. Return 
the whole into a clean kettle, add the cream, and salt to taste; boil up 
once. Wine may be added. My father's favorite soup. 

MRS. A. GALLATIN TALBOTT 



SOUP DUMPLINGS 



1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

Vz teaspoon salt 



1 teaspoon lard 

1 teaspoon butter 

Milk enough to make a soft dough 



Mix into a soft dough. Drop with a spoon in small pieces and boil 
rapidly for 15 minutes in the soup. Serve immediately. 

MRS. EDMUND WEBSTER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



41 



RABBIT SOUP 



2 rabbits 

2 quarts good beef stock 

1 eschalot 

1 onion 

1 bunch sweet herbs 

1 head celery 



2 carrots 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 drachm cayenne pepper 

1 glass port wine 

1 tablespoon mushroom ketchup 

Sippets of fried bread 



Cut up the rabbits, keep the livers apart, and fry the joints; then 
lay them in a stew-pan with the livers, and pour over the beef stock, 
and simmer for 2 hours, removing all the scum; then take out the backs 
of the rabbits, and cut off the meat, put back the bones and add eschalot, 
onion, sweet herbs, celery, carrots, salt, and cayenne pepper. Stew 
another hour, then strain the soup, rub the liver through a sieve, and 
heat the soup for the table, adding port wine and mushroom ketchup, 
and serve with sippets of fried bread, and the meat of the backs cut in 
dice put into the soup. 

MRS. THERON I. CRANE 



Fish for fasting days, and moreover puddings and flapjacks. PERICLES. 



(43) 



BAKED FISH 

1 tablespoon butter Salt, pepper, mace 

Flour 1 egg 

V2 pint milk Bread crumbs 

Take the fish that is left over from a meal, no matter how small 
the quantity, and shred it into a small baking dish. When ready to use, 
make a sauce as follows: Melt the butter in a skillet, brown some flour 
in it, pour in the milk, season with salt, pepper and mace. When the 
sauce has boiled and thickened pour it over the fish and mix well. Beat 
up an egg thoroughly and mix in. Sprinkle bread crumbs on top, and 
cover with dabs of butter. Bake 15 or 20 minutes in a hot oven. For 
4 or 6 persons. 

Miss TIRZAH L. NICHOLS 

SCALLOPED FISH 

3 cups flaked fish 1 quart buttered crumbs 

V 3 cup butter J /2 teaspoon salt 

l /3 cup flour Pepper 

1 quart milk 

Make a white sauce, add fish, put into baking dish, cover with 
crumbs, and set dish in pan of water. Bake until brown. This makes 
12 portions. 

MRS. ALBERT P. BRUBAKER 

POISSON A LA CREME 

5 pounds fish (rock or halibut) 1 tablespoon flour 

1 handful of salt Pepper and salt 

1 pint cream Cheese 

Butter the size of an egg Lemon 

Boil the fish, putting into cold water with a handful of salt; pick 
the meat off the bones. Boil the cream, butter and flour for 5 minutes; 
take off the fire and add the fish slowly. After all is in, stir gently with- 
out mashing the fish. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Turn all 
into a pudding dish; grate a little cheese over it, and bake not longer 
than 15 minutes. As soon as it is brown it is done. Serve with sliced 
lemon on top. MARY E. B. PEROT 

(45) 



46 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FISH OR MEAT SOUFFLE 

Cod, salt or fresh fish left over 1 tablespoon butter 

Chicken, tongue or ham 1 cup milk 

2 eggs 1 cup flour 

Make sauce of yolks of eggs, butter, flour and milk. Add whites of 
eggs, well beaten; lastly, stir in fish or meat. Bake > hour. Serve 
immediately. Season to taste. MRS. ELMORE C. HINE 

COQUILLES 

Cooked fish (any kind) Salt and pepper 

Milk sauce Tomato ketchup 

Use any kind of cooked fish picked into small bits, but halibut is 
best. Add a milk sauce (quite thin), salt, pepper, and tomato ketchup 
till quite pink. Just before baking add beaten white of egg and fill shells. 
Put shells in pan and bake about 20 minutes. White of 1 egg and 1 cup 
of sauce is sufficient for 6 shells. MRS. FRANK H. BURPEE 



RHODE ISLAND CODFISH CAKES 

Boneless codfish 1 tablespoon butter 

Boiled potatoes 1 egg 

Mash twice as much potato as you have codfish 1 cup of boneless 
fish to 2 cups of potato; will require a tablespoon of butter added to 
potato while hot. Beat the egg well before adding, and then beat all 
very thoroughly before dropping into deep hot fat, directly from the 
silver fork with which the mixture is beaten. If the old-fashioned cod- 
fish is used, soak over night, pull into pieces and boil with the potato 
in morning and proceed as directed. 

MRS. FRANK BATTLES 

BAKED MACKEREL 

Use small mackerel. Slit down front and put in baking pan. Put 
over it in following order 

Chipped onions Sliced lemon 

Sliced tomatoes Sliced bacon (very thin) 

Bake 20 minutes in quick oven. 

Miss ANNIE HEACOCK 



BOOK OF RECIPES 47 

BAKED CANNED SALMON 



1 can salmon (flaked) iVz cups milk 

1 cup bread crumbs 4 pieces bacon (finely chopped) 

1 tablespoon butter 

Bake in hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 

SALMON SOUFFLE 

1 can salmon Cream 

4 eggs Salt 

Remove skin and bones from salmon and pick fine with a silver fork. 
Drop in yolks of eggs and stir thoroughly. Add cream to make it the 
consistency of cottage cheese. Add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in a buttered pan for 20 minutes in a quick oven. Do not 
add salt until on the table. 

MRS. S. BERNARD CHAMBERS 

SALMON SOUFFLE 

1 can salmon 1 teaspoon (heaping) flour 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons butter 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon celery or parsley 

When butter is hot (not brown) add flour; when smooth add milk 
slowly. Let it boil up once; add seasoning and salmon that has been 
minced; add well-beaten yolks of eggs; when quite cool, add well-beaten 
whites. Turn into buttered dish and bake ^ hour. Serve with mush- 
room or cream sauce. 

MRS. EDWARD P. KINGSLEY 

LOBSTER CHOPS 

2 cups boiled lobster 1 tablespoon butter 

3 tablespoons flour 1/4 nutmeg 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup cream milk Salt and cayenne pepper to taste 

Add all the seasoning to the lobster. Make cream dressing, add to 
lobster and when cool mould into chops. Dip in egg and bread crumbs 
and fry in boiling lard. 

MRS. HARRY G. MICHENER 



48 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TERRAPIN 

Allow the terrapin to move about in lukewarm water for a few min- 
utes before plunging them into boiling water. Boil until tender, the 
small diamond species will become tender in 20 or 30 minutes, the larger 
kind in about an hour. Remove from the fire when tender and allow to 
drain for a few minutes. To open, lay on the back, head from you ; take 
off the shells and remove sand and gall bags; use great care so as not 
to break the gall sack. Separate the meat and cut the liver and entrails 
up fine. Do not use the head, except the meat on the neck. Place all 
in the stewing kettle, barely cover with boiling water and boil half an hour. 

Dressing for 2 large or 15 small terrapin: 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon red pepper (not cayenne) 

l /2 pound butter 3 tablespoons (scant) browned flour 

1 tablespoon (even) salt % pint cream 

Mash the yolks of the eggs into the butter, add salt, pepper, flour 
and cream. Stir all until smooth and the ingredients are thoroughly 
mixed. Add this to the prepared terrapin and let boil slowly for 15 
minutes, stirring frequently. If not thick enough, stir in a little more 
flour; if too thick, add a little boiling water. Serve in a covered dish 
very hot. Miss JEAN A. FLANIGEN 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

(The famous recipe used by the chef of Delmonico's) 

2 lobsters (freshly boiled) 2 wineglasses good Madeira or old 
1 tablespoon butter Sherry 

Large pinch of salt J /2 P m t rich cream 

Large pinch of red pepper 1 cup milk 

3 eggs (yolks) 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

Split two good-sized, freshly boiled lobsters, pick and cut into inch- 
long pieces. Place them in saucepan on hot range with tablespoon of 
very good fresh butter. Season with one large pinch of salt and same 
amount of red pepper. Cook for 5 minutes, then add good Madeira or 
Sherry. Boil for 3 minutes, then set aside. Now beat yolks of eggs very 
light and add to them cream and milk. Put the whole in separate sauce- 
pan and heat very hot. Stir into it the cornstarch which has been dis- 
solved in cold water and add the mixture to the lobster. Stir gently for 
a minute longer, then turn into hot tureen or chafing dish, and have hot 
plates ready. MRS. CHARLES E. NOBLIT 



BOOK OF RECIPES 49 

DEVILED CRABS BALTIMORE STYLE 

1 dozen large lively crabs 1 teaspoon (heaping) black pepper 

1 cup vinegar Vfe teaspoon finely minced onion 

1 tablespoon salt 1 teaspoon (even) minced parsley 

1/4 pound butter Bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon (even) powdered mustard Sprigs of parsley 

Have ready a large pot on the range with the vinegar and salt in 
the bottom. Heat to boiling point and turn in the crabs. Steam them 
with the lid on until they turn a bright red when they are done and 
may be put out on a waiter to cool. When perfectly cold remove the 
outer shell, the sand bag and the lungs, or dead fingers, as the negroes 
call them. Scrape out from the shells all the green and yellow fat and 
put in a bowl, then pick out the white meat, being careful to avoid drop- 
ping pieces of shell into the meat. Crack the claws and pick out the 
meat, but the legs have too little in them to make it worth while to use 
them. Now add to the meat the butter, mustard, pepper, onion, and 
parsley. No salt must ever be added, as it causes the delicate crab meat 
to taste a little fishy. Wash carefully about 9 shells, and pack them 
with the meat, which should have been stirred very gently so as to avoid 
breaking the pieces too small. Brown some fine bread crumbs and sift 
on top and put the crabs in the oven to heat, but not to cook any more. 
Stick a small sprig of parsley in each before sending to table. 

This is an original Southern recipe, over a hundred years old, and 
is the only one in which the dressing does not injure the true taste of the 
crab. 

MRS. CHARLES MAGELLAN TOWN 



BAKED OYSTERS CLUB STYLE 

Put oysters in half shells and sprinkle with bread crumbs, butter, 
pepper and salt. Then grate cheese over top and put in the oven to 
brown. Serve with parsley and lemon. 

MRS. HARRY A. HORNOR 



OYSTERS ON CRACKERS 

Split common crackers, butter and brown crisply, then on each half 
cracker put as many oysters as will cover the surface, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and set in oven until the oysters -grow plump. 

MRS. FREDERICK L. SEEGER 

4 



50 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DEVILED CRABS 

1 dozen good crabs 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 pint milk Salt 

l /4 pound butter Cayenne pepper 

2 tablespoons flour Ground mace 

2 or 3 eggs (yolks) Grated nutmeg 

Bread crumbs 

Remove the meat from the crabs, after boiling or steaming until 
done perhaps 10 minutes. Scrub the shells. For 1 quart of crab meat, 
use a little over 1 pint of milk. Boil. Rub butter and flour together, thin 
with a little milk and stir into the boiling milk until it thickens. If not 
smooth, mash through a sieve. Add the raw yolks of eggs. Mix a tea- 
spoon of mustard with a little cold milk, stirring into the mixture with 
salt, a very little cayenne pepper, ground mace and grated nutmeg. The 
seasoning should be to taste. Into this stir the crab meat, adding more 
seasoning and milk if desired. It should be very moist. When cool, 
fill the shells, cover with rather fine crumbs, made from stale but not 
dry bread. Put into a hot oven at meal-time only long enough to heat 
through and brown the crumbs. 

MRS. ROBERT P. BROWN 



PAN-BROILED OYSTERS 

Drain rather large oysters well. Put a large piece of butter into a 
flat frying pan. When the butter is very brown, hastily drop in enough 
oysters to lie flat on the bottom. As they brown, turn quickly, brown 
on the other side and remove to a dish, set in the oven, pouring the 
liquor from the pan into a bowl and save in warm place. Another piece 
of butter in the pan, brown and continue as above until all of the oysters 
are cooked. At the last, into the very brown butter sift enough flour 
to make a thick sauce, stir, add the butter saved in the bowl and a very 
little of the oyster liquor, if needed. Stir well until smooth, and 
season. Turn the oysters into this sauce and pour over well -toasted 
slices of bread. The sauce should be very brown (but not burnt) 
and thick, as a liquor oozing from the oysters tends to thin the sauce 
somewhat. 

This is an original recipe. 

MRS. ROBERT P. BROWN 



BOOK OF RECIPES 51 

BROWNED OYSTERS 

2 tablespoons butter 1/2 pint oyster liquor 

2 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper 

Cook together in frying pan the butter and flour until brown; pour 
upon this the oyster liquor and stir until smooth and creamy; season to 
taste with salt and pepper, drop in oysters and cook until they are plump. 
A few drops of caramel will make sauce a rich brown. Serve on toast 
very hot. MRS. FREDERICK L. SEEGER 

THIBAULT OYSTERS 

100 oysters l /2 tablespoon flour 

1/4 pound butter 4 eggs (yolks) 

V 2 teaspoon parsley Cayenne pepper 

1 tablespoon butter Salt 

Drain the oysters as dry as possible. 

Put X pound of butter in a saucepan; when it begins to bubble 
throw in your oysters with very finely chopped parsley, cayenne pepper, 
and salt to taste. Mix 1 tablespoon of butter and ^ tablespoon of flour 
until smooth, and stir into oysters. Add yolks of eggs, well beaten, and 
stir into oysters when almost cooked. The eggs will curdle if cooked 
too long. Serve on hot pieces of toast. This recipe can be cooked in 
chafing dish if desired. 

MRS. E. B. WAPLES 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 pint, or 30 oysters Cayenne pepper 

2 cups crumbs 2 tablespoons butter 
3 /4 teaspoon salt V4 cup oyster juice 

Wash oysters by pouring cold water over them in a colander, remove 
pieces of shell by slipping each oyster through the fingers. Prepare 
crumbs by melting butter, adding crumbs, salt and pepper, and stir until 
crumbs are evenly yellow with butter. Place one-quarter of the crumbs 
on bottom of baking dish ; then half the oysters ; then the second quarter 
of crumbs and second half of oysters and on top the rest of the crumbs. 
Bake 30 to 40 minutes in one large dish; or 6 shells may be used, in 
which case double the quantity of buttered crumbs. Bake shells 15 
minutes. 

Miss L. RAY BALDERSTON 



52 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OYSTERS A LA THIBAULT 

100 oysters Red pepper 

*/4 pound butter 1 tablespoon butter 

Parsley 2 tablespoons flour 

Salt 6 eggs (yolks) 

Brown ^4 pound of butter in a saucepan and throw into it 100 
oysters, well drained, with a little chopped parsley, salt and red pepper. 
When the oysters become quite hot, stir in 1 tablespoon of butter mixed 
with 2 tablespoons of flour. When it has come to a boil, pour over the 
beaten yolks of the eggs and serve. 

MRS. JOSEPHINE L. ADAMS 



OYSTER SHORT CAKE 

2 cups flour 1 A cup butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten with 

*/2 teaspoon salt 1 scant cup of milk 

Spread on biscuit tin, bake in hot oven, split and butter. 

FILLING 

1 quart oysters Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons butter Celery salt 

1 tablespoon flour 3 tablespoons cream 

Scald the oysters in liquor, remove oysters and keep hot. Strain 
1 cup of broth, mix butter and flour in the boiling liquor, salt, pepper and 
celery salt. Let boil, add cream and the oysters. Fill in short cake and 

serve. 

MRS. JOHN H. JOPSON 



PICKLED OYSTERS 

Strain liquor through a cheesecloth, and put on to boil with 2 tea- 
spoons of salt. When it boils, skim well and strain through a cloth, add 
spice, mace, pepper corns, allspice, and vinegar to taste (no cloves). 
Wash oysters well in cold water, shake and put into the hot vinegar and 
spices. Cook until a little shriveled on edges. For 50 oysters use y 2 pint 

of white wine vinegar. 

MRS. H. L. WAYLAND 



BOOK OF RECIPES 53 

OYSTER LOAF 

1 milk loaf of bread *4 pound butter 

1 quart oysters 1 tablespoon flour, wet with a little milk 

1 pint sweet cream Pepper and salt 

Cut off the top crust and scoop out all the soft bread, crumbing it 
and leaving only a bread shell to be filled. Brown the crumbs in the 
butter, and set aside. Throw the oysters into fresh water, removing bits 
of shell. Place them on the stove without any liquor, and allow them 
to get very hot. Heat the cream, season with pepper and salt, and 
thicken with the flour stirred smooth with the milk. Put a layer of crumbs 
in the bottom of bread crust, next a layer of oysters, seasoning them, 
and next a layer of cream. Another layer of crumbs, oysters, cream, and 
lastly crumbs, and your loaf is ready for the oven, where it must bake 
for 20 minutes before serving. MRS. ARTHUR FALKENAU 

CLAM ROAST 

Open clams and in each half shell place thin piece of bacon about 
an inch square. Season with chopped parsley, cayenne, and a drop of 
lemon and onion juice to each clam. Roast in hot oven. 

MRS. FREDERICK L. SEEGER 

DEVILED CLAMS 

40 medium-sized clams 2 tablespoons (heaping) flour 

1 cup cream Chopped parsley, cayenne and black 

3 tablespoons butter pepper to taste 

Drain the clams well, chop very fine; make a sauce of the cream, 
butter and flour. Mix all together, cover well with bread crumbs and 
bake in the oven. MRS. H. G. MICHENER 

DEVILED CLAMS 

15 clams 2 eggs (yolks) 

1 tablespoon butter 2 teaspoons mixed mustard 

1 tablespoon (large) dried bread crumbs Little salt and black and red pepper 

Wash the clams, drain dry and chop fine. Melt the butter and stir 
in the bread crumbs, then the clams; let them boil up, add the seasoning, 
and last of all, the eggs. Give one boil and take from the fire. Fill the 
shells, let them cool, and dip in egg and crumbs and fry as oysters. 

MRS. JOSHUA ASH PEARSON 



The sauce to meat is ceremony; meeting were bare without it. MACBETH. 



(55) 



CHICKEN A LA KING 

Someone has said that if you can make a better mouse-trap than any 
one else, the world will wear a path to your door. If you can not make 
a better mouse-trap, perhaps you can concoct a more appetizing dish 
than any one else. Experience has shown that new menu delicacies are 
even more appreciated than are mouse-traps, and that they make your 
neighbors flock in and tread a beaten path over your front lawn 
just as quickly. That is what Bill King, of Philadelphia, learned 
twenty years ago, when "Chicken a la King" first appeared on a hotel 
menu. 

If Macadam is immortalized by a type of roadway, and Lord 
Raglan by a garment, and Sir Robert Peel by the "Bobbies" and 
"Peelers," why should not William King, of Philadelphia, go 
down to fame upon the palatable, savory concoction of fowl and 
mushrooms, truffles, and peppers smothered in cream that wears his 
name? 

Twenty years ago a patron of the old Bellevue Hotel dining room, 
a man who considered eating no frivolous matter, sat down at a table 
one day and scowled at the waiter. He scowled because he had 
exhausted the entire range of cookery, and at the moment he was 
convinced that not one of the thousand dishes with which he was 
familiar would appeal to him. He said as much to the waiter. The 
man bowed, requested fifteen minutes' grace, and disappeared into the 
kitchen. 

He returned with the following, smoking hot, in a chafing dish: 
Small cubes cut from the white meat of chicken, fresh mushrooms, truffles, 
red and green peppers; cooked in cream. 

When the boii-vivant had eaten the last morsel he sighed. He knew 
that he had done his part in assisting at the birth of a new gift from the 
gods. 

"Who made this?" he demanded. 

"Bill King," was the response. "He works in the kitchen." 

The dish was "Chicken a la King." 

Thus was it born. In the twenty years that have followed that day, 
its fame has spread from sea to sea, until it is known wherever men eat 
cooked food. 

From Literary Digest, March 27, 1915 

(57) 



58 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHICKEN A LA KING 

1 five-pound chicken 2 tablespoons flour 

2 green peppers */2 P mt fresh cream 

Vi pound mushrooms 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Boil chicken until tender. Cut meat into pieces. Boil broth down to 
1 quart. Boil peppers and mushrooms 10 minutes in chicken broth. 
Thicken broth with flour and add fresh cream, chopped parsley. Serve 
hot in chafing dish. 

MRS. JOHN D. MC!LHENNY 



STUFFING FOR CHICKEN 

1 large tablespoon butter 1 small loaf bread, crumbed rather 

1 onion, chopped fine coarse 

Salt, pepper and sweet marjoram 

Season the bread crumbs to taste with salt, pepper and sweet 
marjoram. Fry the onion slightly in the butter, add the seasoned crumbs 
and stir till the butter is all absorbed. 

MRS. WILLIAM A. FLANIGEN 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

1 pint cold chicken meat 1 teaspoon salt 

l /2 pint cream 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 tablespoon butter A dash of cayenne pepper 

2 tablespoons flour Bread crumbs 
1/2 tablespoon parsley 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon onion juice 2 tablespoons milk 

To each pint of cold chicken meat, chopped finely (not ground), 
add cream, butter, flour, parsley, onion juice, salt, nutmeg and cayenne 
pepper. Put the cream on the fire in a double boiler and heat; rub the 
butter and flour together and add to the cream; cook until smooth and 
thick. Add the seasoning to the meat, mix with the sauce and turn out 
to cool. When cold make into croquettes. Dip in flour first to hold 
together, and then in the beaten eggs, to which has been added 2 table- 
spoons of milk. Roll in bread crumbs and fry in smoking fat. 

Sweetbreads and oyster croquettes are made in the same way. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



BOOK OF RECIPES 59 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

1 five-pound chicken, boiled 
To each pint of meat, chopped 

1/2 pint milk (or cream) 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon onion juice 

2 tablespoons flour Salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste 

Put milk on to boil, rub butter and flour together, and stir into the 
boiling milk for 5 minutes; add seasoning, then meat, and stir until well 
heated. Let cool, shape into croquettes and fry in deep fat. 

MRS. ALFRED MELLOR 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Chicken, turkey or sweetbreads 1 spoon butter 

Salt, pepper, parsley 1 spoon flour 

A little nutmeg 1 tumbler cream 

Very little onion 3 eggs (yolks) 

Cracker crumbs 

Mince chicken or turkey as fine as possible, also sweetbreads. Season 
with salt and pepper, parsley, a little nutmeg, and a very, very little onion. 
Mix the butter, flour, and cream; boil and stir into the mince. When 
cold, make into forms, dip into yolks of eggs and cracker crumbs, and fry. 

One chicken and 2 sweetbreads make 1 dozen croquettes. 

MRS. LEWIS M. JOHNSON 

BRUNSWICK STEW 

2 chickens (or rabbit) 1 pod red pepper 

1 onion Salt 

Stew slowly in 3 quarts cold water until the chicken is rather tender ; 
then add 

1 quart tomatoes, peeled and mashed 1 pint lima beans 

through a colander 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 quart white potatoes, peeled and cut 6 ears corn 

1 tablespoon butter 

About half an hour before it is done, add the corn the grain split 
and cut off the cobs. 

MRS. HENRY P. BROWN 



60 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

JELLIED CHICKEN 

1 chicken 1 tablespoon gelatin 

1 lemon 2 eggs (hard boiled) 

Mace, salt, pepper Lettuce 

Boil an old chicken, about 3^ pounds, until it is tender. Allow it 
to stand in a cold place for at least 24 hours, after which pick all the meat 
from the bones and cut into small pieces about the size that would be 
used in chicken salad, and pour the juice of the lemon over it; add a 
little mace and salt and pepper to taste. 

Into \ l /2 cups of the chicken stock place the bones of the legs and 
wings (thin bones only) ; let this come to a boil, then add gelatin. After 
the gelatin is thoroughly dissolved strain the liquid into a cold mould that 
has been dressed with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and turn into this the 
picked chicken and over the chicken the balance of the chicken stock. 
Stand away for several hours in a cold place. In serving, turn mould out 
on platter covered with lettuce leaves with either French dressing or 
mayonnaise. 

The above will serve about 8 average portions. 

MRS. HENRY DELAPLAINE 



CHICKEN MOUSSE 

2 chickens 1 pint rich cream 

2 tablespoons gelatin Salt and pepper 

l /z CU P milk Lemon juice 

Remove the breasts of the cold chickens which have been either baked 
or stewed. Run them through the meat chopper, using the finest cutter. 
Put gelatin in milk, and dissolve by setting the cup in a pan of boiling 
water. Season a pint of the ground chicken meat with salt, pepper and 
some lemon juice. Mix it thoroughly with dissolved gelatin. Have in 
readiness a pint of rich cream (XX) which has been whipped very 
stiff, and fold it into the mixture. Place in a wet loaf pan or fancy mould, 
and chill thoroughly until the gelatin has hardened. When ready to use, 
turn out on a platter and serve with a good mayonnaise. If this is made 
carefully and permitted to stand long enough to become thoroughly stiff, 
the loaf may be sliced. A nice dish for Sunday supper. 

This recipe for Chicken Mousse is one of our stand-bys and I can 
highly recommend it. 

Miss MARIANA J. STEEL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



61 



JELLIED CHICKEN 

Boil chicken until thoroughly done. Chop fine, season very highly, 
chop and add parsley; have a couple of boiled eggs in a mould, pack 
chicken in tightly, add a teacup of chicken juice, in which has been soaked 
a tablespoon of gelatin. Set to cool. It will turn out and make a delicious 
dish for luncheon or tea. 

MRS. BENJAMIN F. RICHARDSON 



BEEF A LA MODE 



7 or 8 pounds beef 

2 tablespoons drippings 

1/2 cup sliced onion 



Vz cup sliced carrots 
*/2 cup sliced turnips 
Sprig of parsley 



Have meat larded by butcher. Put drippings in large pot. When 
hot put in meat and brown on all sides by turning. This will take about 
one-half hour. Then dredge with flour and brown. After flour has 
browned place small plate under meat to prevent its burning, and pour 
on boiling water to half cover meat; add the onions, carrots, turnips and 
parsley. Cover pot tightly with lid so meat may cook in steam and 
simmer for 4 or 5 hours. Add more boiling water if necessary. When 
done place on hot dish and pour vegetables over and around it. Make 
a gravy of 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon of flour browned, then 
add 1 cup of liquid strained from pot. Season with salt and pepper. 
Pour over meat, or serve separately. 

Miss AMELIA R. COALE 



WAKEFIELD STEAK 



Piece of fillet steak cut \% inches thick. An hour before cooking, 
place in the following mixture turning it two or three times: 



4 teaspoons mushroom ketchup 
2 teaspoons brown sugar 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley 



l /4 teaspoon pepper 

l /2 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons hot cider vinegar 



After being in above mixture 1 hour, remove, drain and dredge with 
flour, and cook before the fire or in a skillet with 2 ounces of hot butter, 
for 15 or 20 minutes, turning frequently. Then dish, drain fat from pan, 
and pour into the pan the mixture the steak had been in ; heat thoroughly, 
pour round the steak, and serve with potato chips. 

MRS. H. J. KALTENTHALER 



62 NEWCENTURYCLUB 

BONED TURKEY 

(Fine but very troublesome !) 

Lay the turkey, breast down, on a cloth, and with a sharp-pointed 
knife bone as follows: Pass point of knife through the skin at neck and 
cut open straight down the back bone then proceed to clear the flesh 
from the bones with knife and fingers until you come to breast bone, 
disjointing wings and legs as you proceed; then very carefully detach 
the breast bone from the flesh; be careful not to cut or tear the skin. 
When this is done you may remove the carcass with interior of turkey; 
after taking out the carcass, then holding the foot tightly, scrape the bone 
free from flesh of the legs to below the first joint, then cut the flesh from 
around the knuckles and pull the foot and the remainder of bone and sinews 
will come out together; then cut off the wings at first pinion, and the 
remaining bone is easily scraped away. 

Have ready for stuffing: 2 pounds forcemeat, long thin strips of 
ham, veal and bacon. Put in the turkey, first a layer of forcemeat, 
1 inch thick, then layer of veal, bacon, and strips of slightly cooked ham, 
adding salt, pepper, and a little chopped onion. Proceed with these 
alternate layers until the bird is well filled, then pull over the flaps and 
sew up tightly, tie in a napkin, boil about 3 hours until tender, then brown 
in oven. A better stuffing than the above is: the forcemeat, ham, and 
instead of veal, the meat of a pair of prairie hens, adding a few truffles. 

I always serve this hot. If it is to be served cold, it must be pressed 
by weight before being taken out of the napkin. 

MRS. SAMUEL P. WETHERILL 

A SPANISH STEW 

l l /2 pounds beef 1 onion (small) 

1/2 pint stewed tomatoes Yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg 

1 teaspoon butter Vi teaspoon curry powder 

Take the beef from the upper end of the sirloin. Cover it with boil- 
ing water. Cook slowly until done. When cool, cut into small pieces. 
Save the liquor and strain it. Take the stewed tomatoes, highly seasoned, 
and add a little sugar. Put into a heated saucepan a teaspoon of 
butter, then the tomatoes and the beef. Pour the liquor over them. 
Add the onion, cut fine. Salt and pepper to taste. Cover it up and let 
it simmer for half an hour. Mashing the yolk of the egg, stir into it 
curry powder, and mix with the stew just before serving. 

My old family recipe. Miss AGNES REPPLIER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 63 

SAVORY MEAT 

iy 2 pounds raw, lean beef 1 tablespoon salt (level) 

1V 2 pounds raw, lean veal 1 tablespoon pepper (level) 

3 eggs 4 tablespoons cream 

6 soda crackers, rolled fine Piece of butter the size of a walnut 

Put meat through the grinder. Mix thoroughly, press into shape 
and bake 1> hours. 

MRS. ALFRED PERCIVAL SMITH 



SWEDISH HAMBURG STEAK 

1 pound Hamburg steak 2 eggs 

1 cup dry bread crumbs Celery salt 

1 cup milk Onion salt 

l /z teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Soak crumbs in milk, beat eggs light and add to same; season meat 
with onion, salt and celery salt, and Worcestershire sauce. Mix all 
together, shape into loaf, add water to pan, and baste often and bake 
till tender. 

MRS. W. F. TAFT 

HASH 

3 cups cooked meat (lamb or beef, */ 2 cup melted butter 

chopped) l /2 teaspoon celery salt 

1 cup boiled rice l /z teaspoon pepper 

1 cup cream Thyme, sweet marjoram, etc., to taste 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Put in buttered baking dish and cover with buttered crumbs. 

MRS. ALBERT P. BRUBAKER 



BREADED LAMB CHOPS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Wipe the chops very carefully to remove bits of bone that may be 
present. Season with pepper and salt, and dip in soft bread crumbs 
that have been sifted, then in an egg which has been mixed with 2 table- 
spoons of milk, and then in bread crumbs again. Place on a buttered 
baking sheet. Bake from 15 to 20 minutes. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



64 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BOUDINS 

V 2 pint meat 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon (level) salt l /z cup soft bread crumbs 

A dash of pepper l /2 cup stock or hot water 

2 eggs (well beaten) 

These can be quickly made from any bits of left-over steak, chicken 
or roast. For 6 moulds, only y pint of meat is required. Chop the meat 
fine and season with salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Put bread crumbs 
in a saucepan, add stock or hot water and cook for 2 minutes. Add the 
meat; when hot, take from fire and add eggs. (A grating of nutmeg 
improves the taste.) Fill small greased custard cups two-thirds full with 
the mixture, stand them in a shallow pan of hot water and bake for about 
20 minutes in a hot oven. Fill the bottom of a platter with cream sauce, 
turn the boudins out and arrange them neatly in it. Garnish with parsley. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 



FRIED VEAL 

For a pound of veal use 1 egg beaten up with a little water. Dip 
the veal in the egg, then in cracker crumbs and fry until brown. 

Pour off any surplus fat there may be, and add about \^4 cups of 
water. Cover and move to the back of the stove, where it should steam 
for 1 hour. This makes the veal very tender. 

MRS. ALFRED PERCIVAL SMITH 



BAKED SLICE OF HAM 

Cut ham about 1^2 or 2 inches thick. Trim off all fat, and grind it. 
Mix the ground fat with 1 cup brown sugar; spread this on the slice of 
ham, put it in a covered baking dish with 1 cup of water, and bake 1 hour. 

MRS. ABNER H. MERSHON 



BAKED SLICE OF HAM 

Soak a slice of ham in cold water 20 minutes. Make a paste of 3 
tablespoons of brown sugar and 1 of mustard. Spread over ham. Put 
in a pan and cover with milk and bake in the oven. 

Miss ANNIE HEACOCK 



BOOK OF RECIPES 65 

BAKED HAM 

Select a fine ham (not shoulder) weighing about ten pounds. Scrub 
thoroughly and soak over night in cold water. Put on to boil in clear 
cold water till tender, about 3 hours or more; test with fork. It im- 
proves the flavor to boil with it a small piece of onion, a bay leaf and 
sprig of parsley. When done let it stand in the water in which it was 
boiled till cool, then remove the skin. Score the fat into squares and 
stick a clove in each one. Cover with brown sugar and bake until well- 
browned, not quite an hour. Baste three or four times, adding a little 
lemon juice to the basting. Put a paper frill around the bone and serve 
hot surrounded with lettuce or celery leaves. Garnish with slices of 
pimento-stuffed olives. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

A DIGESTIBLE WAY OF PREPARING VEAL 

One pound veal cutlet, cut very thin 
Cut into 4 even-sized pieces. 

DRESSING 

1 cup stale bread crumbs 1 tablespoon butter 

l /4 teaspoon sage 1 small onion, chopped or ground 

l /4 teaspoon thyme Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix the above dressing together, put in center of each piece; roll 
meat over dressing and fasten with wood toothpicks or tie with cord, 
salt each piece of meat and roll in flour. Put 2 heaping tablespoons 
of butter or its substitute into a deep pot, let it brown, put in meat, 
turn it from time to time until rich brown all over, then cover with 
water that is boiling, place lid on pot and allow the contents to 
only simmer very gently 1 hour or longer if meat is not perfectly 
tender. Take meat out, make thickened gravy by adding 2 heaping 
tablespoons of flour stirred smooth in cold water. 

Miss GERTRUDE A. BARRETT 

SAUSAGE ROLL 

Take about 2 pounds sausage meat, cover with soda biscuit dough 
about YJ, inch thick; stand on a rack in a roasting pan and bake in the 
oven, basting it constantly, until the crust is very brown and the sausage 
well cooked. MRS. HENRY P. BROWN 

5 



66 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MEXICAN TONGUE 

1 cup white wine vinegar 1 cup cut raisins 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon cut in slices 

2 dozen cloves 

Simmer tongue 4 hours; skin and leave in juice until cold. Bake in 
sauce until sauce thickens. 

MRS. SAMUEL BISPHAM BOWEN 

MEXICAN HAM 

2 cups white wine vinegar 2 cups seeded raisins 

2 cups sugar 2 lemons cut in thin slices 

4 dozen cloves 

Simmer ham 4 hours, leave in juice until cold. Bake in slow oven 
about ^ hour, basting until sauce thickens. Bake in porcelain dish. 
Serve with sauce poured over ham. 

This and the Mexican Tongue recipe have been used in my family 
repeatedly, and are considered very fine. They can be used cold with 
sauce heated, which is delicious. 

MRS. SAMUEL BISPHAM BOWEN 

SAUSAGE 

For every ten pounds of meat (half fat and half lean) grind and take 

Vi pound salt 1 ounce (nearly) of pepper 

Vk ounce sage 

Mix thoroughly and put in cheesecloth bags to keep until ready to 
use. 

MRS. HARRY A. HORNOR 

HOME-MADE COUNTRY SAUSAGE 

(Keep in cold place) 

10 pounds very fat tender pork V4 ounce red pepper 

2 ounces black pepper 1 Vz ounces sage 

2 ounces salt 

Cut meat in pieces and mix with seasoning; then put all through 
meat chopper. You can make one-half or one-quarter quantity if desired. 

MRS. HENRY C. MC!LVAINE 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



67 



FRESH TONGUE 

Wash a fresh tongue, cover with boiling water and a heaping teaspoon 
of salt. Simmer slowly for 2^ hours; then take out, remove the skin, 
trim off anything ragged, roll up and tie with a strip of white cloth and 
set aside while preparing vegetables. 

Brown in a pan 



2 tablespoons (heaping) butter 

1 carrot (small) 

2 onions (medium size) 
1 potato 

1 turnip (small) 



1 bay leaf 

1 stalk celery 

2 sprigs parsley 

(Carrot, onions, potato and turnip to be 
sliced thin) 



Stir these over fire until they look glossy; then take a quart of beef 
stock or, if not handy one quart of the water the tongue was boiled 
in. Put the tongue in with broth and vegetables, cover and bake, occa- 
sionally turning the tongue and stirring up the vegetables. At the end 
of 2 hours take out, remove tongue and put on upper grate to brown. 
Rub vegetables and broth through sieve into saucepan, put on stove and 
boil rapidly till reduced to a pint. 

Blend 2 tablespoons of flour and 1 cup of tomato juice, add a pinch 
of salt, pepper and a dessertspoon of Worcestershire sauce; stir into the 
broth and boil up sharply ; remove tongue to platter, pour the thick brown 
sauce over it, sprinkle with parsley and serve. 

COUNTESS OF SANTA EULALIA 



A QUICK KIDNEY STEW 



1 tablespoon butter or its substitute 
1 medium-sized onion 



2 teaspoons white flour 
4 or 6 lamb kidneys 



Peel off outside thin skin from kidneys, cut meat from the inside 
membrane in small pieces. Put butter or substitute in pan over fire to 
brown, put in this onion cut fine or ground, stir in flour (dry) until it 
becomes browned, do not stop stirring lest the flour become full of lumps ; 
when brown add gradually, continuing to stir, boiling water until a nice 
thickened gravy is made. About 2 cups of water more may be added if 
gravy seems too thick. Now put in kidneys that have been cut up, 
let them simmer from 8 to 10 minutes; never allow them to boil hard or 
longer, as they will become hardened and will then need an hour to cook. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Miss GERTRUDE A. BARRETT 



68 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

GALANTINE 

1 pound boiled or raw ham Salt and pepper to taste 

1 pound raw beef off round 1 onion (small) 

2 cups bread crumbs Piece of carrot 
2 eggs, beaten together A few cloves 

Put ham and beef through meat chopper. Add bread crumbs, eggs 
and seasoning. Mix all together, form into a roll about 10 inches long. 
Have a cloth about size of a napkin, and roll the Galantine into it, tying 
firmly at each end. Boil for 2 hours in pot of water into which has been 
put a small onion, piece of carrot, and a few cloves. When cold, glace 
and serve cold. 

GLACE 

y z cup water 1/2 teaspoon gelatine 

l /4 teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

Heat all together, and while hot put on roll with small brush. 

A tested family recipe. MRS. E. B. WAPLES 

STEWED KIDNEY 

Soak veal kidneys 4 hours in cold water with a large spoonful of salt. 
Then chip off in thin pieces, rejecting every bit of the white tissue. Melt 
a tablespoon of butter in a frying pan, and cook the kidney in it until it 
loses the red look (a very few minutes will do it), then add pepper, salt 
and flour, and water or stock. Let it boil up, and serve. If cooked too 
long it will be tough and hard. MRS. WILLIAM A. FLANIGEN 

STEWED KIDNEY 

2 kidneys Butter the size of an egg 

1 teaspoon flour 

Cut two kidneys into small dice, taking out all gristle, put into col- 
ander, wash it once with cold water, drain and flour while in the 
colander. 

Put a piece of butter into the pan in which you will cook the kidney, 
add a little flour and make it very brown. Put the kidney in, stir it all 
up, then add boiling water to entirely cover the kidney. Let it boil up 
once, then put it on the back of the range, cover tightly and boil slowly 
4 hours by the clock. Just before taking off, cream butter and flour, 
and put in it. Let it come to a boil once and take off. Season with 
salt and pepper. MRS. J. NICHOLAS MITCHELL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 69 



HAM AND CURRANT JELLY 

(Very good for Sunday night supper) 

\/ 
1/2 glass currant jelly 1 tablespoon (heaping) butter 

1 teaspoon mustard Sherry wine 

Put into a chafing dish the currant jelly, mustard and butter. When 
it is melted and thoroughly mixed, add as much sherry as you like more 
or less according to taste. Just before serving, put in your ham, which 
has been first sliced very thin and then shredded. Cook just long enough 
for the ham to get hot. 

I use about 1 A cup of sherry and ^ pound of ham to this amount 
of sauce. 

This is one of my housekeeper's recipes. She makes everything she 
attempts most delicious ! When I say delicious, I mean the quality which 
a Philadelphian would consider delicious! 

MRS. EDWARD WETHERILL 

TO ROAST BEEF HEART WITH SAGE AND ONIONS 

1 beef heart 3 ounces bread crumbs 

2 ounces onion (boiled and shredded) 1 ounce sage 

Soak, clean and trim a heart; make a stuffing of the onion, sage, and 
crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and fill the cavities from which 
you have cut out the lobes; sew it up and roast before the fire for 4 
hours, basting it much. It must be served with good brown gravy and 
apple sauce. Well worth trying. MRS. THERON I. CRANE 

CALF'S LIVER IN A CHAFING DISH 

Wash it; cover it with boiling water and let it simmer for 3 or 5 
minutes. Stand away until ready to cook it in the chafing dish. Cut 
it up into small pieces and season with salt and pepper. Put a little butter 
in the chafing dish and then the liver. Add a teaspoon of hot water and 
cook about 5 or 6 minutes. Then add a little cream or rich milk; let it 
boil 2 or 3 minutes and serve. 

The yolk of an egg beaten up and added just as you take from the 
fire makes it particularly nice, but be sure not to cook it after the egg 
goes in more than to get it stirred through well. 

If you use wine, two tablespoons of sherry added as you take it from 
the fire improves it. Miss VIRGINIA HARTSHORNS 



70 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BAKED SWEETBREAD 

Wash well in cold water, leaving the sweetbread whole, then drop 
into boiling water and boil until tender. Put in cold water to harden, 
pull out the strings and bits not good to eat, divide the sweetbread as 
little as possible. A piece of veal boiled with the sweetbread improves 
it and makes it go further. Save the water the sweetbread is boiled in 
for the dressing. 

Put the sweetbread into a platter or small baking dish after dipping 
in egg and fine bread crumbs and seasoning with pepper and salt. 
Put bits of butter on top and bake to a light brown; pour over it 
the dressing, which must be very hot. Serve in the dish in which it is 
baked. 

DRESSING FOR BAKED SWEETBREADS 

Use the water in which the sweetbreads were boiled, add a piece of 
lemon peel and boil down to a small bulk, thicken with flour (or corn- 
starch) and butter and flavor with lemon. Make it quite tart about 
half a lemon to a pair of sweetbreads. 

Miss JEAN A. FLANIGEN 



CALF'S HEAD (TERRAPIN STYLE) 

1 calf's head 2 ounces butter 
% pound calf's liver 1 teacup wine 

2 hard-boiled eggs (yolks) J /2 teaspoon ground cloves 
y 2 teaspoon flour Salt and cayenne pepper 

Get a calf's head and ^ pound calf's liver. Wash the head and 
take out the brains, then put the head in a pot with just enough cold 
water to cover it. Let boil till tender (1^< hours is generally long enough) ; 
it must be tender enough for the meat to come easily off the bones. Cut 
the meat very fine, skin the tongue and cut it and the liver up. Put all 
back in the same water and boil ^ of an hour, having first seasoned to 
taste with a little salt, cayenne pepper and >^ teaspoon of ground 
cloves. Then mash the yolks of eggs fine, add flour and butter; 
mix into a smooth paste and put in with the meat and let it continue 
boiling till it gets quite thick. Just before dishing, stir in a teacup of 

wine. 

THE MISSES ESHERICK 



BOOK OF RECIPES 71 

MOCK TERRAPIN EXCELLENT 

1 calf's head 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped up 

l /2 cup soup stock 1 cup cream 

3 tablespoons butter Sherry wine 
1 tablespoon flour Red pepper 
1 cup milk Salt 

Cut one quart of the meat in small pieces. Put the meat and stock 
into a kettle and let simmer, then add eggs. Rub the butter and flour 
together and stir into the milk; let them come to a boil, then add the 
meat. Season with red pepper and salt, add just before taking from the 
fire a cup of cream. When ready to serve add sherry wine to taste. 

Of course you boil the calf's head till it is done before beginning to 
use it. MRS. LEWIS M. JOHNSON 

TO STEW A DUCK WITH CHESTNUTS 

Bone the duck and fill it with a forcemeat of 2 parts lean roast veal, 
^4 as much finely shredded beef suet, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, some 
mushrooms, young green onions and parsley to fill up, seasoned well with 
pepper and salt, and well moistened with cream. Lay it in a stewpan 
with a whole onion and a bunch of herbs and cover with bouillon or gravy ; 
stew gently for an hour. In the meantime make a ragout of 30 or 40 
roasted chestnuts, seasoned only with a teaspoon of salt, and stewed to 
a pulp in *4 pint of white stock and 2 glasses of white wine. Dish the 
duck and cover with the chestnuts in the sauce. 

MRS. THERON I. CRANE 

BAKED SWEETBREADS 

4 pairs sweetbreads Vi teaspoon (even) black pepper 

1 teaspoon (heaping) onion 2 teaspoons (even) minced parsley 

l /2 teaspoon (even) salt 1 cup of stock 

Whiten and parboil 4 pairs of sweetbreads and arrange them in a 
baking pan so as not to touch each other. Mix together with a cupful 
of stock, the onion (chopped very fine), salt, pepper and parsley. Pour 
this evenly over the sweetbreads and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 
They must be watched to see that they do not burn suddenly. Serve 
very hot on a platter surrounded by peas. Cook them just before they 
are to be served as they should not be allowed to stand long. 

This recipe has long been used in my mother's and my own family, 
and always meets with favor. MRS. CHARLES MAGELLAN TOWN 



72 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CANVAS BACK DUCK 

Pick, draw and singe like a chicken. Wipe thoroughly inside and 
out with a damp cloth (avoid washing or soaking, as it depreciates flavor) . 
Cut an onion in half and with bleeding side of one half nib the inside 
thoroughly and yet lightly; with the other half rub the outside of duck 
all over lightly. Truss the wings and legs close to the body. Do not 
stuff the duck, but place a piece of butter the size of a walnut in each with 
three cranberries. Baste well with melted butter and a little flour to brown. 
Place in a baking pan, add 1 teaspoon of salt and % cup of boiling water 
to the pan and a small piece of butter. Put into a very hot oven and 
bake for 18 to 20 minutes, or, if wanted better done, 25 minutes, watch- 
ing carefully the progress of the baking and basting well with its own 
gravy 4 or 5 minutes. 

The savory odor and tenderness of the duck are lessened if cooked 
longer than 20 minutes by the over-doing of the juices. 

MRS. HARRY A. HORNOR 

SWEETBREADS 

Put them in water for 1 hour. Boil in acid water 20 minutes (using 
a few drops of lemon or vinegar). Plunge in cold water, remove all fat, 
loose skin, etc. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Put in baking dish, 
brush with melted butter, allowing 2 tablespoons to each sweetbread. 
Cover with thin slices of bacon and bake in hot oven 25 minutes, the 
last 5 without the bacon. Miss CAROLINE C. HOFFMAN 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

(Without wine) 

Cook calf's liver as usual, until done. Cut into rather small pieces. 
Wipe the pan well and put into it a large lump of butter the size of an 
egg, or more, for 1 pound. In a bowl, mix the meat with 2 hard-boiled 
eggs cut into very small pieces or chopped, ^ teaspoon of dry mustard, 
salt and a very little cayenne pepper. It should be pretty heavily seasoned. 
Stir this into the butter, dust thickly with flour and brown. Pour about 
1 cup boiling water over the meat, stirring quickly and well. 

Cold roast veal, cut into small pieces, may be used in the same way, 
but in this case the mustard should be mixed with a little vinegar and 
the gravy should not be allowed to brown. 

MRS. ROBERT P. BROWN 



BOOK OF RECIPES 73 

TO SERVE WITH MEAT AND FISH 

Apple sauce with roast pork. 

Mint sauce with roast lamb. 

Oyster and chestnut dressing with roast turkey. 

Walnut catsup with venison. 

Currant jelly with roast goose. 

Celery sauce with quail. 

Tart grape jelly with canvas back duck. 

Orange salad with roast chicken. 

Cream gravy and strawberry preserves with fried chicken. 

Celery and onion dressing with roast duck. 

Olives stuffed with cream cheese with cold tongue. 

Olives stuffed with peppers with fish balls. 

Parmesan cheese with beef and veal sausage. 

Tomato catsup with pork sausage. 

Horseradish and fried onions with liver. 

Apple sauce with pork croquettes. 

Mayonnaise with boiled lobster. 

French dressing with sardines. 

White sauce, hard-boiled eggs and parsley with boiled salmon. 

Sauce piquante with boiled shad. 

Melted butter sauce with mackerel. 

% 

Cream sauce with sweetbreads. 

Maitre d'hotel sauce with steamed oysters. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 



How green you are and fresh in this old world. KING JOHN.' 



(75) 



SWEET POTATOES 

Sweet potatoes make delicious "chips" and "shoestrings." They 
should be sliced thin, or cut in slender strips, just as is done with white 
potatoes for a similar use, dropped in cold water for a few minutes, and 
fried in deep fat. A slight sprinkling of salt while they are warm improves 
them. 

MRS. SAMUEL SEMPLE, 
President, State Federation of Pennsylvania Women 

POTATO FRITTERS 

Wash and peel 4 medium-sized white potatoes ; grate the potatoes on 
a coarse grater, drain off the dark potato water; salt, add the yolks of 
two eggs, and beat. If the mass seems stiff, add a little cream. Beat 
the whites of the eggs stiff and fold into the potatoes. Place equal por- 
tions of lard and butter in a skillet, when hot, drop the mixture by the 
spoonful into the skillet and fry until brown, thei- turn. 

In hot weather these fritters quite take the place of meat. 

MRS. LUCRETIA L. BLANKENBURG 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Slice the potatoes rather thin, put a layer in a greased pudding basin, 
sprinkle with salt and butter, and a little pepper; continue until dish is 
full, having butter and seasoning on top, put on about ^ cup of cream, 
and sprinkle bread crumbs on top. Takes about ^ hour to bake in a 
good oven. 

MRS. MARY S. JOHNSON 

POTATO PUFF 

2 cups cold mashed potatoes 1 tablespoon melted butter 

Beat to a cream. 

2 eggs, whipped light 1 cup milk 

Salt to taste 

Beat all well, pour into a greased baking dish, and bake quickly 
to a light brown. 

MRS. JOHN GIBSON 

(77) 



78 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Cut potatoes in dice, make a good rich white sauce, and stir them 
into it; turn in baking dish and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Grated 
cheese on top improves it for some. 

MRS. MARY S. JOHNSON 

POTATO AU GRATIN 

(University Club Recipe) 

Plain boiled potatoes chopped very small, mixed with a thick cream 
sauce, seasoned to taste with salt and pepper. Put in shallow dish, sift 
grated cheese thickly on top and bake till a golden brown. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

GREEN CORN AU GRATIN WITH SWEET RED PEPPERS 

Cut corn from cob, add butter and cream, and mild green peppers 
minced after removing inside and seeds. Grate cheese on top and bake 
in shallow baking dish. 

Recipe from chef at Touraine Hotel, Boston. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

CANNED CORN 

8 cups corn 1 cup granulated sugar 

1 cup salt A little water 

Cut corn off the cob, measure and put in the ingredients. Cook a 
few minutes until the milk sets. Put in cans hot. When ready to use, 
pour off brine, cover with fresh water, let stand over night, and put fresh 
water on again until ready for use. Fine. 

This keeps beautifully. I have it now two years old. 

MRS. MARY HAINES KIRBY 

CORN FRITTERS 

Score 1 dozen ears of well ripened corn, then scrape all from cob; 
add cream or milk, salt, flour to make batter; lastly, 3 eggs beaten very 
light, whites separately and put in last. Fry in hot fat. Some use 
baking powder and less eggs. 

MRS. ISAAC H. CLOTHIER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 79 

CORN FRITTERS 

6 ears corn 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten A little sugar 

1 tablespoon flour Salt to taste 

Boil the corn 5 minutes, grate and mix with eggs, flour, baking powder, 
a little sugar and salt to taste. Fry and serve very hot. 

Miss CLARA COMEGYS 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS 

12 ears corn (grated and cobs scraped) Salt 
6 eggs, beaten separately Pepper 

Mix the yolks of the eggs, pepper and salt with the grated corn; 
mix and then add the very stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake on a 
buttered griddle, like griddle cakes. Do not pile one on top of another, 
but spread out singly on platter. Eat immediately after cooking, as they 
fall flat if left too long before serving. No flour used. 

MRS. HENRY P. BROWN 

CORN PUDDING 

12 ears corn, grated Butter the size of a walnut 

1 cup milk A little sugar 

2 eggs Salt and pepper 

Break the eggs in the corn, and beat; then add the seasoning and 
melted butter; lastly pour in milk. Bake 45 minutes. Not a very quick 
oven; about the same as for bread. 

Miss ANNA S. ECKFELDT 

TOMATO A LA CREOLE 

1 full quart ripe tomatoes 1 white onion 

1 scant pint green okra 1 sprig parsley 

2 sweet green peppers Salt, paprika and black pepper to taste 

1 generous tablespoon butter 

Chop tomatoes, after peeling. Cut up okra. Remove seeds from 
peppers and run them, together with onion and parsley, through meat 
grinder. Place in stew pan, season to taste, and cook very slowly, from 
6 to 8 hours. Before serving, add the butter. Care must be taken to 
prevent scorching. MRS. WILBUR F. LITCH 



80 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CELERY SIENA STYLE 

1 quart celery 1 tablespoon butter 

2 eggs (yolks) 1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil 1 quart of celery till tender; drain and chop fine, then add salt 
and pepper to taste, the yolks of eggs, butter and grated cheese. Place 
in a mold lined with wax paper, and sprinkle cheese on top. Set in a 
saucepan of hot water and let it boil half an hour. Pour on dish and 
pour the sauce around it. 

SAUCE 

1 cup of broth from beef soup Kidney and liver giblets from chicken, 

Salt and pepper to taste chopped fine 

1 small spoon butter 

If desired, garnish with points of toast spread with a fish paste. 

Miss SARAH C. SOWER 



BAKED EGG PLANT 

(An old family recipe from Baltimore) 

1 large or 2 small egg plants % cup grated bread crumbs 

3 eggs l /2 cup flaked rice 

y 3 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk l /z teaspoon pepper 

Wash the egg plant and cut off the stem ends. Boil from 30 to 40 
minutes in salted water, until it can easily be pierced with a broom straw. 
Put in 2 eggs with the egg plant and boil hard (20 minutes). Take from 
the water and drain in a colander, then place on a large platter. Skin 
carefully, cut open and remove the seeds. Take the shells from the eggs, 
mince with a silver fork. Cut the egg plant very fine with a silver knife 
and fork; add the minced egg to the mixture and put in a large shallow 
baking dish; season with salt, pepper and large teaspoon of butter. Add 
milk, rice, and lastly, 1 raw egg well beaten. Sprinkle over the well- 
smoothed mixture the bread crumbs and dot with bits of butter. Bake 
]/z hour in rather quick oven. 

MRS. MARY T. NICHOLS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 81 

SPINACH PUDDING 

1 cup cooked spinach, chopped very fine 1 cup bread crumbs 

1 pint milk 

Put all together on stove and cook slowly 1 5 minutes. Add 

V 2 teaspoon salt Very little grated nutmeg 

A little black pepper 2 eggs (yolks) 

Beat all ingredients together, and let it cool and set a couple of hours. 
Just before putting into oven, beat up whites of two eggs very light, and 
add gently. Bake in baking dish 15 minutes in moderate oven, putting 
baking dish in another pan of hot water. 

A recipe tried and tested in my family, and which I do not think 
will be found in the ordinary cook book. 

MRS. E. B. WAPLES 



TO BOIL RICE SOUTHERN STYLE 

Wash 1 cup of rice thoroughly, 4 or 5 times in cold water. Have 
ready a fairly large pot of boiling salted water (at least 2 quarts), to which 
add ]/2 teaspoon of lemon juice, then sprinkle in the rice so gradually 
you will not stop the boiling. When you have it all in, stir with a fork, 
but only stir once, as it makes the rice fall to the bottom of the pot; boil 
rapidly and constantly until soft (about 40 minutes), empty into a col- 
ander, pour over it a quart of boiling water, and drain; then stand in 
oven 10 minutes, to dry, leaving the door open. Serve heaped loosely 
in a heated dish without a cover. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 



RICE OMELET 

1 cup boiled rice, mashed 1 tablespoon flour 

2 tablespoons milk A pinch of salt 

4 eggs (beaten separately) 

Add to the rice the milk, flour and pinch of salt. Add yolks of eggs, 
beaten light. Then add whites, beaten light. Drop in large spoonfuls 
on buttered frying pan. Fold over as is usual with omelets. 

MRS. GRACE S. WILLIAMS, 
President, Bristol Travel Club, Bristol, Pa. 

6 



82 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BEAN LOAF WITH BACON CURLS 

1 quart lima beans, cooked and mashed 1 onion 

1 egg 1 cup cream sauce 

Mix, season with salt and pepper, bake 40 minutes. Turn out on 
platter and serve with tomato sauce and very thin slices of crisply fried 
bacon. Cream sauce made of bacon drippings, flour and milk. 

A good substitute for meat. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

Cook peppers in salt water until tender, and remove seed. 

1 can tomatoes a /2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar a /2 cup butter 

1 cup toasted bread crumbs 

Cook until thick. Fill peppers and have about > inch of sauce in 
pan. Put in oven until brown. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 



CntrceS 

There's no meat like 'em. I could wish my best friend at such a feast. TIMON OF ATHENS. 



(83) 



A DIGESTIBLE WELSH RAREBIT 

(For the Chafing Dish) 

3 cups cheese, finely grated 1 tablespoon butter 

3 eggs, beaten separately, and very 1 saltspoon mustard 

light 1 saltspoon salt 

l /2 CU P cream 1 saltspoon soda 

Red pepper 

Stir the mustard, salt, soda and pepper into the grated cheese. Melt 
the butter in the blazer over the hot water pan, in which the water should 
be boiling; slowly stir in the cheese and add the cream, drop by drop, 
stirring all the time; when smooth, add the yolks of the eggs; work 
quickly, for the cheese will curdle if cooked too long; lightly whip in the 
whites of the eggs, and serve instantly on toast. 

This is my own invention. Miss EMMA BLAKISTON 

WELSH RAREBIT 

1 pint milk l / 2 pound cheese 

1 tablespoon (even) cornstarch Salt, mustard, cayenne pepper 

Put the milk on the range to heat. Mix the cornstarch with a little 
cold milk, adding to the heated milk. Stir well until it boils and becomes 
like thick cream. Slice the cheese, rather soft and not too sharp. Melt 
in the hot milk, seasoning with salt, a small quantity of dry mustard and 
a tiny shake of cayenne pepper. Pour over small pieces of well-toasted 
bread. MRS. ROBERT P. BROWN 

MUSHROOMS SOUS CLOCHES (UNDER GLASSES) 

1 pound mushrooms 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup cream Salt, pepper 

Cut rounds from slices of bread with large biscuit cutter. Toast 
bread and arrange slices on white deep dishes like those used for poached 
eggs. Separate mushrooms from stems, discarding stems. Saute mush- 
rooms in a pan in which the butter has been melted, dust with salt and 
pepper, add the cream, and let it just boil. Arrange mushrooms on the 
toast, and pour over the cream and cover with glass bells. Stand in pan 
and then in oven for 15 minutes. This will serve 6 persons. 

MRS. WILLIAM R. TURNER 

(85) 



86 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TOMATO CREAM TOAST 

3 tablespoons flour Vi teaspoon soda 

3 tablespoons butter Vi teaspoon salt 

l l /2 cups stewed tomatoes (strained) J /2 cup cream (scalded) 

Cook the flour in the butter, add tomatoes, soda, salt, and lastly, 
scalded cream. Pour over 6 slices of crisp buttered toast and serve 
immediately. 

MRS. CHARLES E. NOBLIT 



SANDWICHES 

Philadelphia cream cheese Parsley 

Eggs (hard boiled) Onion juice 

1/2 green pepper Lemon juice 

Olive oil 

Mash the cheese with yolks of eggs, a few grains of cayenne pepper 
and salt ; chop green pepper, a little parsley chopped fine with the boiled 
white of egg; mix with cheese, add a few drops of onion juice, a little 
lemon juice. Add enough olive oil to spread easily on the crackers. 

MRS. JOSEPH PETTIT 

EGGS AU GRATIN 

Break an egg into individual ramekin, pour over it a thick cream 
sauce and grate a little cheese on top. Brown in gas oven. Cook not 
over 3 minutes. 

MRS. WILLIAM SHEWELL ELLIS 



EGG TIMBALES 

Beat 6 eggs without separating. Add 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1/2 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon onion juice 

iy 2 pints milk 

Stir all together and fill buttered timbale molds, or muffin pans, two 
thirds full. Put in pan of boiling water and cover molds with paper. 
Put in oven for 15 or 20 minutes. Turn out on platter. Serve as entree, 
with mushrooms sauted, put all around. This will make 8 timbaies. 

MRS. WILLIAM R. TURNER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 87 

TIMBALE 

4 eggs 6 drops lemon juice 

J/2 cup cream Vinegar 

1 gill water Pinch of salt 

Dash of white pepper 

Beat the eggs together, not very light. Bake in a French ring. Fill 
with mushrooms or fried tomatoes. MRS. JAMES A. DEVELIN 

BAKED OMELETTE 

6 eggs (well beaten) 1 tablespoon flour, dissolved in cold 

1 teaspoon salt milk 

Dessertspoon melted butter 1 pint hot milk 

Mix well; put in a buttered dish to bake. Bake quickly. 

MRS. LEWIS M. JOHNSON 

PALATABLE EGG CHOPS 

6 eggs Pepper and salt to taste 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon butter Peas 

Boil 5 eggs very hard. Rub the yolks through a sieve, and chop the 
whites, not making them too fine. Put cup of milk over fire in a double 
boiler. Rub together flour and butter with 1 beaten egg. Mix a little 
of the warm milk with this, before stirring into the boiling milk; season 
with pepper and salt until thick and smooth. Take from fire and, when 
almost cool, stir into it the prepared yolks and whites. When cold enough 
to handle, mold into chops, dip in egg and crumbs and fry a delicate brown. 
Serve with peas. 

This, when properly made and fried, is a very dainty, delicate and 
appetizing dish when you do not wish to serve meat. 

Miss ANNA JOHNSON 

CHEESE ENTREE 

1/2 pound cheese (grated) % teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon flour Pinch of pepper 

Vi teaspoon mustard l /2 pint cream or milk 

Mix well, put over a slow fire to melt; allow it to cook, stirring all 
the time. Serve with small pieces of toast about it. 

MRS. WILLIAM H. HOLLAR 



88 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHEESE ENTREE 

2 tablespoons flour Eggs 

2 tablespoons butter American cheese 

1 cup milk or cream Paprika 

Cook flour and butter together in a double boiler until the mixture 
bubbles. Add milk or cream and stir until it thickens. Then add some 
finely sliced American cheese and season with a dash of paprika. Put 
3 tablespoons of this mixture in your ramekins, then break an egg in each, 
being careful not to break the yolk. Season with more paprika, and pour 
what is left of the cheese mixture over the top of the egg. Place ramekins 
in pan of water and bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

This recipe is very much liked in our family. 

Miss SERAPH J. DEAL 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Cheese 3 /4 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 pint milk 1 egg (beaten separately) 

l /2 teaspoon mixed mustard Salt and pepper 

Line a small pudding dish with thin slices of bread and butter, place 
thin slices of dairy cheese, or grated cheese, on top with salt and pepper 
until you have 3 layers. Pour over this the milk, into which you have 
already put mustard, Worcestershire sauce, and egg. Pour over the 
bread in the pudding dish, the milk, egg, etc. Put plate over it for 5 
minutes; let stand 15 minutes, and bake in quick oven about 20 minutes. 

Miss ANNE HOLLINGSWORTH WHARTON 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 ounce butter 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons grated cheese 
1 pint milk Salt, red pepper 

Heat the butter, and stir in the flour; season with salt and red pepper, 
and add the milk. Let all come to a boil, then allow it to cool off partly. 
When cool, add the yolks of the eggs, grated cheese, and the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Pour the whole into a buttered tin, lay buttered paper over 
the top, and bake in a quick oven 10 minutes. Serve at once. 

Miss HILDA JUSTICE 



BOOKOFRECIPES 89 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

V4 pound cheese (grated) 1 teaspoon butter 

Va cup flaked rice J /2 teaspoon salt 

Heat the milk to boiling point, turn in the grated cheese, and when 
melted add the rice, the butter and the salt. Lastly, the egg, or two if 
preferred, gently stirred in. Serve at once on toast. 

MRS. MARY T. NICHOLS 

CHEESE FONDUE 



2 cups milk 4 well-beaten eggs 

Pinch of soda 1 tablespoon (level) melted butter 

1 cup fine bread crumbs Pepper, salt 

Vz pound dry grated cheese Pinch of mace 

Soak bread crumbs in the milk, with soda stirred in; beat in the 
eggs and seasoning, and the cheese last. Butter a pudding dish, put in 
the mixture, strew the top with pieces (or fine bread crumbs) and cover. 
Bake >2 hour, and then brown quickly. Serve quickly, as it will fall in 
cooling. JOSEPH PETTIT 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon (heaping) flour 

1 cup milk 

Let this thicken, then add 

1 pound cheese (cut fine) 1 cup fine bread crumbs 

2 eggs (yolks), well beaten 

Cook till cheese is melted. 

MRS. EDWARD F. KINGSLEY 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 cup scalded milk (very fresh) 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup soft stale bread crumbs Vfc teaspoon salt 

l /4 pound mild cheese, cut in small Yolks of 3 eggs 
pieces Whites of 3 eggs 

Mix first 6 ingredients; add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff. Pour 
in a buttered baking dish and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

MRS. ALBERT P. BRUBAKER 



90 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHEESE BALLS 

2 cups grated cheese Little salt 

2 eggs (whites) Little cayenne pepper 

Beat the eggs very stiff; stir the eggs into the cheese. Make into 
balls. Roll in sifted cracker crumbs and fry in hot deep fat. Drain on 
brown paper. This makes 18 cheese balls. 

MRS. W. DUFFIELD ROBINSON 

CHEESE RAMEKIN 

1 cup grated cheese Small piece of butter 

l /2 t 3 A cup bread crumbs 3 eggs 

l /2 teaspoon mustard Salt (small pinch) 

% pint boiling milk 

Soften bread crumbs in the milk. When cold, put in cheese, beat 
up well; beat eggs separately, put yolks in mixture, then whites (beaten 
very light) ; grease baking dish, and bake ]/* hour in a slow oven, or longer 
if not brown. 

MRS. WILLIAM A. WIEDERSEIM 

SAVORY CHEESE 

Vz cup butter 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 

l /2 pound American cheese 2 tablespoons tomato catsup 

6 stuffed olives (chopped fine) Little salt 

l /2 onion (grated) 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Beat the butter to a cream, gradually adding cheese, olives, onion, 
sauce, catsup, a little salt if required, and chopped parsley. Mix all 
together, pack into a mold, set on ice until ready to serve the next day. 

MRS. WILLIAM R. TURNER 



What relish is this? TWELFTH NIGHT. 

Stewed in brine, smarting in lingering pickle. ANTHONY AND CLEOPATRA. 



(91) 



SWEET PEACH PICKLE 

*/2 bushel basket of firm free-stone 4 pounds granulated sugar 

peaches 2 ounces whole cloves 

1 gallon good vinegar 2 ounces stick cinnamon 

2 ounces allspice 

Pare peaches. Put vinegar in large porcelain-lined preserving kettle. 
Put sugar in smaller kettle with barely enough water to dissolve it, and 
let it boil till it makes big slow bubbles, then pour it into the hot vinegar 
in which the spice has been cooking. (If preferred spice can be put in two 
cheesecloth bags or loosely tied in pieces of cheesecloth.) Into this boil- 
ing, sweetened, spiced vinegar drop the peaches till the vinegar will cover 
no more. Let them get tender but not soft, and repeat the process till 
all the peaches have been cooked in the vinegar. Have ready a tall stone 
jar, clean and well scalded. As the peaches cook lift them into the jar 
with a strainer ladle. When all the peaches have been put into the jar 
pour the hot vinegar over them, drop in the spice bags and lightly cover 
top of jar with a napkin. The vinegar must cover the fruit. When 
cold, cover with a clean cloth and put on the lid. 

This keeps indefinitely and is a most palatable relish with roast meats. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 



MANGO PEACHES 

1 basket free stone peaches (firm yel- 12 pounds sugar 

low) Va quart grated horseradish 

% quart chopped cabbage 2 tablespoons mustard seed 

2 quarts vinegar 2 tablespoons whole cloves 

3 tablespoons whole cinnamon 

Divide the peaches in halves, remove the stones and fill with the 
mixture of cabbage, horseradish and mustard seed, placing two or three 
whole cloves in each; tie the halves firmly together with tape (string 
will cut). Make a syrup of vinegar and sugar, boiling the spice bag con- 
taining cloves and cinnamon in it. Drop the peaches in, a few at a time. 
Boil until tender a few minutes if peaches are soft; a little longer, if 
hard. Put in crocks, covering with syrup, and allow them to stand some 
weeks before using. 

Miss ANNA L. COALE 

(93) 



94 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



7 pounds yellow peaches 



PICKLED PEACHES 

3y 2 pounds sugar 
1 pint vinegar 



Boil vinegar and sugar and spices together; when the syrup is sea- 
soned enough, remove the spice bag and cook the peaches in this syrup 
until tender; then bottle, and make air-tight. 

SPICE BAG 
Pinch of cloves, allspice and mace Plenty of cinnamon 

MRS. EDWIN F. KEEN 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 



2 gallons green tomatoes (sliced thin 

without peeling) 

12 good-sized onions (peeled and sliced) 
1 quart vinegar 
1 quart brown sugar 



2 tablespoons salt 

1 tablespoon ground mustard 

1 tablespoon black pepper 

1 tablespoon allspice 

1 teaspoon ground cloves 



Mix together, cook until tender, stirring often. Put in glass jars.. 

MRS. Louis H. MUTSCHLER 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 



! /2 peck small green tomatoes 
6 onions 



1 cup salt 
1 quart vinegar 
2 quarts water 



Slice tomatoes and onions very thin, add salt and let stand all night. 
In the morning, drain and boil in vinegar and water. Drain again and 
throw liquor away. Then add: 



3 quarts vinegar 

2 pounds brown sugar 

1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

1 tablespoon ground mustard 



1 tablespoon ground allspice 
3 tablespoons ground celery seed 
1 teaspoon red pepper 
l /z pint horseradish 



Boil all together for 15 minutes, put in jars and cover when cold. 
The ground spices can be put in a bag and removed when boiled. 
A recipe of my mother's which we think very good. 

MRS. GEORGE L. MITCHELL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 95 

OYSTER BAY GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

1/2 peck green tomatoes l /z CU P sa lt 

3 green peppers Vinegar 

Slice tomatoes and peppers. Sprinkle with ^ cup of salt and let 
stand over night in wooden or earthen vessel. Strain off the water, rinse 
in cold water by holding in a colander under faucet. (If you use tin, put 
a piece of cheesecloth between. Do not let any of it come in contact 
with tin, not even a spoon.) Cover with vinegar, when well drained, in 
an agate or porcelain-lined kettle, then add: 

l /2 cup horseradish 1/2 tablespoon whole allspice 

2 cups sugar Vi tablespoon whole cloves 

1/4 tablespoon stick cinnamon 

Cook very slowly until tender. 

MRS. EDWIN MARTIN 



SPANISH PICKLE 

3 dozen large cucumbers Va peck onions 

4 dozen large green peppers 1/2 peck green tomatoes 

Cut in small pieces, sprinkle with salt and let them stand over night, 
then wash in clear cold water and let them drain thoroughly. Add: 

1 ounce white pepper l / 2 ounce celery seed 

1 ounce mustard seed 3 tablespoons dry mustard 

l / 2 ounce cloves 1 pound brown sugar 

Cut up some horseradish in small pieces, cover with vinegar and boil 
one hour. 

MRS. ROBERT T. BOYD 



PICKLED CHERRIES 

Stone the cherries and cover them with white wine vinegar; let them 
stand 12 hours, then drain. When drained put in stone jar in layers of 
1 quart of sugar to 1 quart of cherries and cover. Stir with wooden 
spoon every day for 7 days, then bottle. No cooking. 

Cherries done by this method are firm and of delicious flavor. 

MRS. MORGAN BUNTING 



96 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FRENCH PICKLE 

1 peck green tomatoes 1 pound brown sugar 

1 dozen large onions Vi pound mustard 

1 dozen green peppers ! J /2 ounces white mustard seed 

2 quarts vinegar l l /2 ounces celery seed 

Slice together the green tomatoes, onions and peppers; spread them 
on platters in layers and sprinkle salt between each layer. Let them 
remain so over night. In the morning squeeze dry, put in a kettle with the 
vinegar, sugar and mustard. Cook slowly 2 hours. Then chop rather 
fine and add white mustard seed and celery seed. Stir in well and bottle 
for use. 

This recipe has been used for years in our family, and is excellent. 

MRS. HENRY T. DECHERT 

SWEET CHERRY PICKLE 

Use Murillo cherries. Stone and cover with vinegar not too strong. 
Let stand 24 hours. Drain, weigh, and add 1 pound of sugar to 1 pound 
of cherries. Put in crock and stir occasionally until sugar is all dissolved. 
Put in jars and seal. MRS. WALTER C. MC!NTIRE 

WATERMELON PICKLE 

Watermelon rind 1 quart vinegar 

Alum water Stick cinnamon 

3 pounds sugar Whole cloves 

Pare the rind, cut in pieces and soak over night in salt water strong 
enough to bear an egg; then drain off and soak in alum water 24 hours. 
Next, rinse, put in a kettle with fresh water. Boil until tender (not soft), 
then pour off water and boil in vinegar and sugar until transparent. Put 
in cinnamon and cloves. 

MRS. SAMUEL S. THOMPSON 

GINGER PEARS 

4 pounds pears (sliced very thin) */2 pint water 

4 pounds sugar 2 lemons (sliced very thin) 

2 ounces ginger root (pounded to dust) 

Dissolve the sugar and water, put all together and boil until tender 
and jellied. 

MRS. WILLIAM P. WORTH 



BOOK OF RECIPES 97 

SPICED CANTALOUPE 

Cantaloupe Sugar 

Vinegar Cloves 

Cinnamon 

Pare cantaloupe and cut in medium-sized pieces. Soak over night in 
equal parts vinegar and water. In the morning drain; cover with fresh 
vinegar, to every quart of which add 2 pounds of sugar and spice bag 
filled with 1 tablespoon cloves and 2 tablespoons cinnamon. Boil until 
syrup is thick 3 to 4 hours. Miss AMELIA R. COALE 

TOMATO CATSUP 



54 tomatoes (medium size) 4Vi tablespoons ginger 

5 onions 4 l /z tablespoons celery seed 

9 cups vinegar 7 little red peppers 

9 tablespoons sugar or 

41/2 tablespoons salt 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 

Chop tomatoes and onions quite fine; add vinegar, sugar, salt, gin- 
ger, celery seed and red peppers or cayenne pepper. Boil down to nearly 
half. Add the spice when nearly done. Bottle and seal immediately. 

MRS. EDMUND WEBSTER 

TOMATO CATSUP 

1/2 bushel tomatoes 1 dessertspoon black pepper 

Vz cup salt 5 cents worth mustard seed (a little 

1 ounce whole cloves more according to taste) 

2 ounces whole allspice 15 cents worth ginger (not broken) 
l /4 ounce cayenne pepper 1 quart vinegar 

Boil until it thickens, pass through a sieve, reheat and put up in 
sealed bottles. MRS. ROBERT T. BOYD 

MEAT SAUCE 



V 2 peck ripe tomatoes iVz teaspoons ground cloves 

iVz cups red peppers l*/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 

1 cup chopped onion 1 teaspoon ginger 

IVz cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1/2 cup salt 3 cups vinegar 

Boil until it is quite thick about 3 or 4 hours then bottle in Mason 
jars. Very fine for cold meat, oysters or fish. 

MRS. WILLIAM P. ELWELL 



98 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MY GRANDMOTHER'S BOILED TOMATO CATSUP 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 1 tablespoon cloves 

1 dessertspoon red pepper 1 tablespoon mace 

1 dessertspoon black pepper 1 tablespoon mustard 

1 tablespoon ground allspice 3 tablespoons salt 

1 pint good vinegar 

Having cut a slit in the tomatoes, place them in a kettle and boil 
X hour, then strain through a hair sieve, adding red and black pepper, 
allspice, cloves, mace, mustard and salt. Boil slowly 4 or 5 hours. When 
cold add vinegar. 

Miss ELIZABETH A. ATKINSON 



SPICED TOMATOES 

Tomatoes Sugar 

Vinegar Whole cloves 

Stick cinnamon 

Select medium sized tomatoes, scald and skin, cover them with vinegar 
(not too strong), and let them stand over night. Drain them carefully, 
and to each pound of fruit add X pound of sugar. Pierce each tomato 
with three or four whole cloves and a piece of stick cinnamon. Boil 
slowly until the syrup is rich enough. Bottle while hot. 

A delicious relish which can be served with hot or cold meats. 

MRS. FRED. W. TAYLOR 



FRENCH SAUCE 

i/ 2 peck ripe uncooked tomatoes 1 teacup nasturtiums 

1/2 pint horseradish 1 teacup sugar 

1 small teacup salt 1 onion 

1 small teacup mustard seed (mixed 1 teaspoon whole cloves 

black and white) 1 teaspoon whole mace 

2 chopped red peppers (without the 2 teaspoons whole black pepper 

seeds) 1 stick cinnamon 

2 or 3 stalks of celery (cut fine) l l /2 quarts cider vinegar 

Put the tomatoes into a large earthen crock; skin and cut into 
medium-sized pieces ; add the other ingredients and stir well. Use within 
2 weeks. 

A delicious pickle for cold meats or fish. 

Miss HELEN A. CHILDS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 99 

CHILI SAUCE 

1 gallon ripe tomatoes V 2 cup salt 

1V2 cups red peppers (seeded and H/2 teaspoons ground cloves 

chopped) iy 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 

1 cup onions (chopped) 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
Vi cup sugar 1 1 / 2 pints vinegar 

Peel tomatoes and boil down until reduced nearly one-half, then add 
the other ingredients and boil down until quite thick; stir occasionally, 
but do not strain. Put in glass jars while hot. (A few marbles put in the 
kettle help to prevent scorching.) MRS. RICHARD PETERS 

CHILI SAUCE 

2 sweet green peppers Vz grated nutmeg 

2 sweet red peppers 8 tablespoons granulated sugar 

4 onions 2 tablespoons salt 

12 large red tomatoes l / 2 tablespoon mustard seed 

iVz cups vinegar 1 teaspoon celery seed 

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 

Skin and take seeds from tomatoes. Put onion, peppers and toma- 
toes through a coarse chopper. Mix all ingredients together, boil 1 hour, 
and seal hot. MRS. MARY HAINES KIRBY 

PEPPER HASH 

5 small cabbages 1 teaspoon mustard seed 
1 red pepper 1 teaspoon celery seed 

5 green peppers 1 teaspoon whole allspice 

4 tablespoons salt 1 dozen whole cloves 

Vinegar 

Chop together cabbages and peppers; sprinkle the salt over them 
and let the mixture stand all night. Do not drain, unless a very little 
if the liquor is excessive. Sprinkle over the cabbage and peppers, the 
next day, the mustard seed, allspice, celery seed, and cloves. Mix well, 
then pour cold vinegar over all. The quantity of vinegar cannot be 
exactly estimated, varying from a little over a pint to nearly a quart, 
according to the amount of liquid covering the cabbage. Taste is the 
only guide, as too much vinegar will destroy the flavor of the pickle. 
Put up in stone or glass jars. 

This old pepper hash recipe was given to me by the wife of my father's 
German gardener. MRS. RICHARD PETERS 



t . 



100 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



BORDEAUX SAUCE 



2 gallons cabbage (cut fine) 

1 gallon green tomatoes (cut up) 

1 dozen onions 

1 ounce celery seed 

1 ounce allspice (whole) 

1 ounce black pepper 

Mix and boil 30 minutes. 



1 ounce ground ginger 

1 ounce cloves (whole) 

y 2 pound white mustard seed 

1 3 /4 gills salt 

1 gallon vinegar 

l l /2 pounds sugar 

Place in jars while hot. 

MRS. GEORGE McKsowN 



PEPPER SAUCE 

(Moravian recipe) 



1 head cabbage (small) 

1 stalk celery 

2 green peppers 
1 red pepper 



1 tablespoon whole cloves 

2 tablespoons mustard seed 
1 cup granulated sugar 
Vinegar 



Chop cabbage and celery fine and soak in strong salt water 1 hour. 
Squeeze water out and add chopped green and red peppers, cloves, mus- 
tard seed and granulated sugar. Cover with cold weak vinegar. 

MRS. MATTHEW JAMES GRIER 



CHOW CHOW 



V 2 peck green tomatoes 
1 head cabbage 

1 quart little onions (whole) 
25 large cucumbers (sliced) 
25 small cucumbers (whole) 

2 heads cauliflower 

1 pint pounded horseradish 
Vinegar" 



*/z pound white mustard seed 
1 ounce celery seed 
l /2 teacup ground pepper 
l /2 teacup ground cinnamon 
l /2 teacup ground turmeric 
3 pounds brown sugar 
l /2 pound ground mustard 
l /2 pint salad oil 



Cut vegetables up and pack down in salt 1 day and night; then drain 
and lay in vinegar and water for 2 days. Drain well again and put the 
vegetables in the kettle in layers with the spices and sugar. Cover with 
best vinegar and boil from 1 to 2 hours. Just before taking up, put in 
ground mustard mixed with salad oil. Let it boil a few minutes after 
this is put in. 

This recipe I know to be good, having used it myself and given it 
to many friends. 

MRS. WILLIAM P. WORTH 



BOOK OF RECIPES 101 

PICCALILLI 

Vz peck green tomatoes % pound brown sugar 

1 pint onions Vz cup salt 

4 red sweet peppers 2 cups vinegar 

1/2 bunch celery Vz package whole mixed spices 

Slice tomatoes and onions, cover with the salt, and put in an agate 
kettle to stand over night. In the morning drain off the liquid and add 
celery, cut in inch pieces, the peppers chopped fine, spice in bags, vinegar 
and sugar. After it comes to a boil, simmer for 2% hours and put in air- 
tight jars. 

MRS. J. HOWARD GASKILL 



CHOW CHOW 

2 quarts large pickles 1 quart green tomatoes 

1 quart sweet pickles 2 heads cauliflower 

1 quart onions 4 green apples 

2 red apples 

Cut vegetables up and put in weak brine, along with the pickles, 
for 24 hours. Scald in brine slightly (do not boil), drain, put back in 
kettle and pour dressing over while hot. Put in jars. 

DRESSING 

6 tablespoons (heaping) Coleman's 6 cups sugar 

mustard 1 cup flour 

1 cup (even) turmeric 3 pints vinegar 

1 pint water 

Put ingredients for dressing together, mix smooth and let come to 
a boil (stir constantly), make thick, then pour over the hot strained 
vegetables. (\\ dozen "penny" cucumber pickles equal 2 quarts; 
1 heaping quart small pickles equals 1 quart.) 

MRS. MARY HAINES KIRBY 

TO EAT WITH MEATS 

1 pound seeded raisins Melt a glass of currant jelly 

Juice of 2 A boxes currants, or 2 oranges (sliced thin) 

Cook 30 or 40 minutes. 

MRS. CHARLES REYNOLDS SIMONS 



102 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOWDER 

1/2 bushel green tomatoes (peeled and 6 large red peppers (chopped) 

chopped) 8 large onions (chopped) 

12 large green peppers (chopped) 2 cups salt 

Mix all; drain over night. In morning add: 

3 tablespoons ground cinnamon 1 large cup mustard seed 

3 tablespoons ground cloves 2 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons celery seed 4 quarts vinegar 

Boil in vinegar about 20 minutes. This will fill 12 fruit jars. 
Splendid for oysters and cut cold meats. 

MRS. ALEXANDER E. PATTON 

CORN RELISH 

1 dozen ears com 4 red peppers 

8 onions (medium size) 2 stalks celery 

1 handful salt 2 pounds brown sugar 

1 head cabbage 3 pints vinegar 

Cut corn from cobs, cook 8 or 10 minutes until tender. Slice or cut 
fine the onions. Chop cabbage, pour cold water over it and add salt. 
Let stand 10 minutes. Chop peppers and onions together and cut up 
celery by hand. Put all in a kettle with sugar and vinegar. Make a 
paste of 

4 tablespoons mustard 2 big tablespoons flour 

1 big tablespoon turmeric powder 

Take out 1 tablespoon of vinegar and mix with paste and cook 20 
minutes. Add all together and put in pint jars. 

MRS. Louis H. MUTSCHLER 

COLD SLAW DRESSING 

2 raw eggs (beaten light together) % cup cream 
2 tablespoons sugar l /2 cup vinegar 

*/2 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs, add sugar and mustard; beat all thoroughly and add cream, 
then the vinegar. Put the butter in a vessel, let it melt; add the mixture, 
cook slowly until it thickens. Put salt on cabbage, which has been cut 
fine; pour the sauce over. Eat cold. 

MRS. WILLIAM P. ELWELL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 103 

VEGETABLE CHOW CHOW 

l /2 gallon vinegar 1 pint small onions 
Vz pound mustard (scant this by Vs W or 

1 teaspoon turmeric 2 bottles pickled onions (this is pref- 
l /2 pound granulated sugar arable) 

2 tablespoons salt 1 pint lima beans 
l /2 dozen green peppers (chopped) 1 pint green corn 

2 red peppers (chopped) 1 pint string beans 

1/4 pound yellow mustard seed 1 bottle small pickles (cut) 

2 cauliflowers 

Cook the vegetables separately, and cut the cauliflower into pieces, 
but not very small. Mix the mustard and turmeric with some of the 
vinegar until it is smooth. Put the vinegar, sugar and salt in a large 
agate preserving kettle, when this boils add the mustard. When this 
boils, put in the peppers, then add the vegetables, putting the cauliflower 
in last, and add the mustard seed. When this is well mixed and thoroughly 
boiled, it is ready to put in jelly tumblers or jars, and does not need 
to be air-tight. 

ALICE PUSEY CHAMBERS 



I have bought the oil, the balsamum and aqua-vitae. COMEDY OF ERRORS. 
/ warrant there's vinegar and pepper in't. TWELFTH NIGHT. 

We may pick a thousand salads ere we light on such another. 

ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. 



(105) 



POTATO SALAD 

1 quart cold boiled potatoes (cut in small l / 2 cup onion (cut fine) 
pieces) 1 cup parsley (cut fine) 

2 cups celery (cut fine) 

DRESSING 

4 eggs (well beaten) Vfc teaspoon black pepper 

1 cup vinegar 1/2 teaspoon mustard 

2 teaspoons salt Vz cup cream 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Scald eggs, vinegar, salt, sugar, pepper and mustard without boil- 
ing, then add cream and butter. Let cool and mix with potatoes. 

MRS. BENJAMIN F. RICHARDSON 

POTATO SALAD 

6 or 8 boiled potatoes (cut in dice) 1 onion 

6 hard-boiled eggs 1 pimento (cut fine) 

1 small cucumber A little parsley (cut fine) 

DRESSING 

1 pint vinegar 1 teaspoon dry mustard 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 tablespoon flour 

4 or 5 eggs J /2 teaspoon salt 

J/2 cup sugar Vi pint whipped cream 

Put the vinegar (if strong dilute with ^3 water) on the fire with the 
butter and let come to a boil; set aside to cool a little. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs with the sugar, mustard, flour, and salt. Add vinegar to this, 
strain and place in double boiler; return to the fire and cook until thick, 
beating all the time. When thick, remove from the fire and let cool. 
Beat the whites stiff, and stir this mixture into them. Before using add 
whipped cream. The dressing will keep if kept in a cool place. 

MRS. ALBERT P. BRUBAKER 

SPANISH SALAD 

Peel and slice oranges, removing seeds; boil in salted water large 
chestnuts and blanch them. Mix with the oranges, chill thoroughly and 
serve very cold, with mayonnaise dressing. 

MRS. HENRY B. COSTILL 

(107) 



108 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

RADISH AND CHEESE SALAD 

Lettuce Radishes 

Cheese 

Take a couple of leaves from a head of lettuce, place on a plate and 
fill the centers with red radishes cut in straws so that the red and white 
can show. Work the cheese with a spoon and form into small eggs. Put 
3 on the top of radish straws, and surround with 3 radishes cut in roses. 
Pass dressing French preferable. 

This can also be served as a cheese course. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



MEXICAN SALAD 

10 tomatoes 2 stalks celery 

2 green cucumbers Water cress 

4 sweet green peppers French dressing 

Select nice large, round tomatoes; skin them, scrape out about 3 
teaspoons inside of each, and place on ice to get cold. Take cucumbers, 
medium size, pare them; green peppers, and celery; after chopping fine, 
add a small bunch water cress cut with a knife. Pour French dressing 
over all, and fill tomatoes with this mixture. Put a piece of mayonnaise 
dressing on top of each tomato, and serve with water cress around. (For 
10 people.) 

MRS. T. ELLWOOD POTTS 



FRUIT SALAD 

Celery Pimentos 

Pineapple Mayonnaise 

Green peppers Whipped cream 

Cut crisp stalks of celery into narrow straws about like matches, 
and throw into ice water. Peel a pineapple and shred with a fork. Chop 
fine a few green peppers and pimentos, and put all on the ice. When 
ready to use, dry the celery in a napkin and mix all together with a 
mayonnaise, to which a cup of whipped cream has been added. Serve 
cold on lettuce hearts. 

MRS. W. DUFFIELD ROBINSON 



BOOK OF RECIPES 109 

LETTUCE AND TOMATO SALAD 

Lettuce 1 tablespoon (heaping) sweet green 

Tomatoes pepper 

1 teaspoon (even) onion 

Arrange a bed of lettuce leaves on each salad plate and lay on top 
3 slices of medium size red tomatoes. Chop the green pepper fine, after 
removing all the seeds, and add onion and put in the ice box to chill for 
an hour before arranging the lettuce and tomatoes. 

DRESSING 

2 spoons made mustard 1 saltspoon salt 

Vi teaspoon black pepper l /2 teaspoon powdered sugar 

A dash of paprika l /z teacup cream 

3 teaspoons cider vinegar 

Mix mustard, pepper, paprika, salt, sugar and cream. Stir well for 
a minute and then add vinegar and beat thoroughly for 5 minutes, or 
until it thickens. This amount of sauce is sufficient for 4 plates of salad. 

MRS. CHARLES MAGELLAN TOWN 



APPLE SALAD 

Lettuce Celery 

Cabbage Apple 

Equal parts of cabbage, celery and apple. Shred cabbage very fine; 
cut celery and apple into small pieces, the apple about % inch square. 

DRESSING 

2 eggs (well beaten) l /2 teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons (level) sugar l /z cup vinegar 

Yz teaspoon salt l /2 cup cream or rich milk 

Mix eggs with sugar, salt, mustard and vinegar. Cook in double 
boiler, stirring all the while until the mixture thickens. Put into a cold 
bowl and when quite cold, beat into it the cream or rich milk. Mix with 
other ingredients when ready to serve, and serve on lettuce leaves. Half 
of this dressing is enough for salad for 4 or 5 persons. It will keep in the 
refrigerator for several days. 

This is a simple hearty salad for every-day home luncheons. 

Miss ANNA M. JOHNSON 



110 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FRUIT SALAD 

(Good) 

Lettuce Malaga grapes 

Orange Marshmallows 

Pineapple Mayonnaise 

Grapefruit Whipped cream 

Equal portions of oranges, pineapples, grapefruit, Malaga grapes and 
marshmallows mixed with mayonnaise to which has been added whipped 
cream according to amount of salad required. Serve on lettuce. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 

DATE AND APPLE SALAD 

Lettuce Dates 

Apples Olive oil 

Lemon juice Cream cheese 

Salt Chopped nuts and celery (if desired) 

Slice apples in long thin strips, half the thickness of the little finger. 
Over 2 cups of sliced tart apples squeeze the juice of a lemon, and sprinkle 
salt. (This will keep the apples from turning dark.) Add scant cup of 
dates, stoned and shredded. Over this mixture pour the desired amount 
of olive oil. Chopped nuts and celery may be added if desired. Serve 
on lettuce, with a small square of cream cheese. 

MRS. H. H. WHITE, 
President, New Century Club of Pottstown, Pa. 



PEAR AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Lettuce French dressing 

Pears Red pepper 

Pimento cheese Swedish wafers 

Cut pears in 8 pieces. Serve in round dish, and between each sec- 
tion of pear place a strip of pimento cheese, so that they alternate. Sur- 
round the dish with lettuce. The dressing should be the ordinary French 
dressing, using lemon instead of vinegar and red pepper instead of black. 
Serve with Swedish wafers and any kind of cheese preferred. 

MRS. EDWARD WETHERILL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 111 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Lettuce Orange 

Pineapple Mayonnaise 

Cherries 

Lay 2 or 3 small lettuce leaves on a plate. Place on this a slice of 
pineapple, divided into pieces, but arranged to look unbroken; on this 
a slice of orange, quartered, then a spoonful of mayonnaise in which are 
placed 2 or 3 cherries. Miss AGNES PRESTON, 

The New Century Club Lunch Room 

WHITE GRAPE SALAD 

Lettuce Strawberries 

White grapes Mayonnaise 

Cut in half and seed a sufficient quantity of white grapes according 
to the number you wish to serve. Mix with mayonnaise and serve on 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with strawberries. Serve very cold. Straw- 
berries may be omitted, but they taste good and make a pretty color 
scheme. MRS. A. W. ROBINSON 

CHERRY SALAD 

White (California) canned cherries Pimento cheese 

French dressing 

Seed the cherries ; in place of seed place a little ball of pimento cheese. 
Serve with French dressing. 

These two (Cherry Salad and White Grape Salad) rather unusual 
salads I have served several times and found them very popular. 

MRS. A. W. ROBINSON 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

2 baked potatoes J /2 cup whipped cream 

1 teaspoon butter 2 tablespoons pineapple juice 

1 tablespoon sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

Yolk of 1 egg 

Skin potatoes and beat in butter. Add the yolk of egg, sugar, lemon 
and pineapple juice. Allow to stand in a cool place, and before using add 
whipped cream. Use white grapes and pineapple on lettuce leaves. 

MRS. ALFRED MARSHALL 



112 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OIL MAYONNAISE FOR SALADS 

Yolks of 3 raw eggs Generous dash of cayenne pepper 

1 teaspoon dry mustard Vfe pint salad oil 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt Juice of 1 lemon 

Mix yolks of eggs, mustard, sugar, salt and pepper together lightly, 
then add salad oil very slowly, stirring constantly and always one way. 
This when properly made should grow stiff er as the oil is added, until 
at last the entire mass will leave the sides of the bowl; when may be 
added the vinegar and lemon juice. Ingredients must all be very cold, 
but the oil must not be so cold as to have started to congeal. 

MRS. BENJAMIN F. RICHARDSON 

MAYONNAISE 

2 hard-boiled eggs Vi teaspoon salt 

3 raw eggs (yolks) Vs teaspoon red pepper 
l /2 P m t olive oil Vinegar or lemon juice 

Take yolks of hard-boiled eggs and mash fine, then add pepper and 
salt, yolks of raw eggs (well beaten), then oil. Continue in this way 
until you have used up the eggs and oil, and lastly, add vinegar or lemon 
juice to thin to desired consistency. 

Miss EDITH SELLERS BUNTING 

SALAD DRESSING 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon (small) salt 

1 teaspoon mustard 3 teaspoons flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup (small) milk 

1 cup (small) vinegar 

Beat smooth the eggs, flour, mustard and sugar. Then add milk, 
vinegar and salt. Stir well; boil slowly until it thickens. 

Miss ELIZABETH BUNTING COLLIER 

MEMPHIS SALAD DRESSING 

To a sufficient quantity of French dressing add: 

Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs (grated) 1 tablespoon pimentos 

1 tablespoon chopped green peppers 1 teaspoon chives (chopped) 

Enough tomato catsup to redden 

Serve over lettuce hearts. MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 113 

EASY SALAD DRESSING 

1 tablespoon oil (heaping to run over) 1 tablespoon (heaping) sugar 

1 tablespoon mustard 3 eggs (beaten thoroughly) 

1 tablespoon salt % cup vinegar 

% cup cream or milk 

Mix oil and mustard well together until smooth; add salt and sugar; 
mix all together thoroughly. Add eggs, vinegar and cream or milk. 
Cook like custard. The salt and sugar should be used according to taste. 

MRS. WILLIAM H. TENBROOK 



SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 

1 egg J /2 cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon mustard Salt and pepper 

Beat egg and add sugar. Dissolve mustard with part of vinegar, 
add pepper and salt to taste and a little butter if wanted. Cook until 
thick, about 5 minutes. Omit mustard if not desired. 

MRS. ISAAC S. LOWRY 



MRS. C. C. CONVERSE'S RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING 

1 cup mayonnaise made with Tarragon 1 tablespoon Tarragon vinegar 
vinegar 1 teaspoon chives (cut fine) 

3 tablespoons old Virginia chili sauce % teaspoon Escoffier sauce a la Pro- 

2 tablespoons pimento (chopped) vinciale 

Mix and serve over hearts of lettuce. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 



COLD SLAW 

Cabbage Cayenne pepper to your taste 

2 raw eggs (beaten lightly) 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon mustard 3 tablespoons vinegar 

2 saltspoons salt 1 cup cream 

Shave cabbage very fine and put in a cold place. Put eggs, mustard, 
salt, pepper, sugar, vinegar and cream in a double boiler, let come to the 
consistency of thick cream. After it is quite cold, just before serving, 
mix well with the finely shredded cabbage. 

MRS. ALFRED MELLOR 



114 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TOMATO JELLY ON LETTUCE 

Lettuce 6 stalks celery (chopped fine) 

1 quart tomato juice A pinch of ground cloves 

1 large onion 2 tablespoons granulated gelatin 

Mayonnaise 

Boil tomato juice, onion, celery and cloves 1 minute; then add 
gelatin dissolved in cold water. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 

CHEESE 

Take a cake of pimento cheese, add mayonnaise, chopped olives and 
a little onion juice. Mould into balls and serve with crackers and salad. 

MRS. BENJAMIN F. RICHARDSON 



Rubbings 

Blessed pudding. OTHELLO. 




(115) 



ROYAL ICED CABINET PUDDING 

1 pound candied cherries 1 pint milk 

V pound candied green gages 1 large tumbler good sherry 

1 pound stale sponge cake 6 eggs 

Vz pound sifted sugar 1 vanilla bean 

1 pint rich cream 1 box gelatine 

Take a mould with cover and place in a pan of ice and water until 
very cold. Put gelatine to soak. Put milk on to boil. Whip yolks of the 
eggs light and add sugar; strain gelatine into milk just as it boils. Then 
add the eggs and sugar. See that it does not curdle. When the custard 
is cool, add cream, which must have been whipped stiff; add vanilla 
bean. Then take your mould and decorate as you please. Put in a small 
quantity of custard. Cut your cake, soak it in the wine, cut your green 
gages in half and stone them. Make a layer of the sponge cake, then one 
of the cherries, then one of the green gages and custard; and continue 
thus until the mould is filled. Then ice for 3 hours at least. Serve as you 
would ice cream. Take the whites of the eggs, whip them with 1 cup 
of white sugar. Surround the pudding with it and decorate with cherries 
and angelica. The dish should be iced before turning the mould out. 

A sauce may be served with it as one might with ice cream; if you 
do, the wine used as a foundation for it should be the same as that used 
to soak the cake. 

This dessert, when successfully made, is luscious. It is a recipe 
from our famous Twelve Dollar Dinner Club, when twelve well-known 
women, Mrs. J. Dundas Lippincott, Mrs. Isaac J. Wistar, Mrs. Clarence 
H. Clark, Mrs. Isaac Norris, Mrs. William Hunt, Mrs. William Ingham, 
Mrs. J. W. Pepper, Mrs. John T. Newbold, Mrs. Robert Toland, Mrs. 
Henry E. Dray ton, Miss Susan Stevenson and myself, dined together for 
nine years, at one dollar apiece. At the end of the meal the hostess read 
the bill of fare. There was a rule that all ingredients should be included 
in the dollar. The dinner must cover the usual courses. If the hostess 
went over the dollar she was asked for her photograph and her resignation. 
Not only were the rules adhered to, but the dinners became so elaborate 
that a limit was put to the courses. Ingenuity was such that we were 
threatened with softening of the brain. This pudding made an extraor- 
dinary hit when first served. 

MRS. CORNELIUS STEVENSON 

(117) 



118 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

RICE PUDDING 

BY E. Q. A. E. 



1/2 cup rice % cup sugar 

1 quart milk 14 nutmeg (grated) 

1 teaspoon (scant) salt 1 cup seedless raisins 

Boil rice in plenty of water for X hour. Drain, and add the other 
ingredients (except the raisins, which go in a few minutes before the pud- 
ding is done otherwise they cause the milk to separate). Place all in a 
shallow baking dish and cook on top of stove until well thickened, stirring 
frequently to prevent from sticking. When about done put in the raisins 
and place in a hot oven to brown. Serve icy cold. This quantity will 
serve 8 persons. 

MRS. THOMAS BIDDLE ELLIS 

RHODE ISLAND RICE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons rice Nutmeg 

2 quarts milk Butter 

2 coffee cups sugar 1 coffee cup (heaping) seeded raisins 

Wash the rice in hot water and cover with the milk. Make very 
sweet, using 2 coffee cups of sugar and perhaps more, according to taste. 
Grate nutmeg and put small pieces of butter thickly over the top. Cook 
in a slow oven about 2 hours. Stir very frequently and when half the 
time is up, put in seeded raisins. The secret of the success of this pudding 
lies in the stirring. 

MRS. FRANK BATTLES 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

l /2 cup pearl tapioca Vi cup seeded raisins 

3 cups water 1/2 cup English walnuts 
1 1/2 cups brown sugar Whipped cream 

Soak tapioca in 3 cups of water over night. In the morning put in 
double boiler and add brown sugar. Cook for 1^2 hours, then add seeded 
raisins; cook % hour longer. Break English walnuts into same, and 
after stirring well pour into dish to cool. Eat with cream, whipped pre- 
ferred. Quantity for 6 people. With one-minute tapioca, cook half 
the time. 

THE MISSES LONGSTRETH 



BOOK OF RECIPES 119 

BREAD PUDDING 

4 eggs 1 pint stale bread crumbs 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon 

3 A CU P powdered sugar 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, the sugar and butter together, add the 
milk and bread crumbs gradually and grate in the rind of the lemon. 
Bake for 1 hour. When nearly done make a meringue of the whites of 
the eggs and powdered sugar, and add the juice of the lemon. Put on 
top of pudding and bake to a light brown. 

A recipe which our family and friends heartily approve. 

MRS. MARY T. LEWIS GANNETT 

PUDDING BLANC D'CEUFS ET CARAMEL 

1 small plate loaf sugar 6 or 8 eggs 

1/2 glass water 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

6 or 8 leaves gelatin 1 pint milk 

To make the caramel, take a small plate of loaf sugar, put over the 
fire in saucepan with $4 glass of water. Boil until thick and finally brown 
like molasses. Move to back of the stove, keeping warm and liquid. 
Dissolve the gelatin in as little water as possible, and put this aside like 
the caramel. Now take whites of eggs that have been on ice, thoroughly 
chilled, beat thoroughly with powdered sugar, and when light or thick, 
pour into this first the caramel, then the gelatin; mix well and carefully, 
pour into mould, and set on ice for 2 hours. 

Make a custard of 4 yolks of eggs and 1 pint of milk. Pour around 
the pudding when ready to serve. MRS. H. J. KALTENTHALER 

PINK PUDDING 

11/2 pints sweet cream 4 eggs (yolks) 

8 or 10 leaves of gelatin Sugar 

10 or 15 drops carmine (vegetable) 1 glass (small) kirsch 

Place on ice for 1 hour 1 pint of sweet cream, then whip it until 
thick; add gelatin dissolved and carmine. Place this, after mixing thor- 
oughly and pouring into mould, on ice. Beat thoroughly % pint of cream, 
add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, sugar to taste, and a small glass of 
kirsch. Pour this sauce round the pudding and serve. 

MRS. H. J. KALTENTHALER 



120 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BROWN BETTY 

When apples are poor in the early spring, rhubarb makes an excel- 
lent substitute for them in a "Brown Betty." More sugar and butter 
should be used than when apples are used. 

MRS. JOHN L. APPLETON 

JERUSALEM PUDDING 

/ 

1 pint whipped cream Vi cup rice 

Vz box gelatin 3 figs 

V 2 cup powdered sugar 3 pieces preserved ginger 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak gelatin in cold water till dissolved. Put rice on to boil, and 
when tender, drain off the water and cover with cold water to separate 
the grains and spread on a napkin to dry. Cut figs and ginger in small 
pieces. Whip cream and pour into a tin basin, which should stand in a 
pan of ice water. Stir in carefully the sugar, gelatin, fruit and rice until 
stiff, and pour into a mould. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

MRS. JOSEPH WARNER SWAIN 

"JUDGE PETERS'* 

/ 

2 cups sugar ^ 9 dates 
l /2 box gelatin 6 figs 

2 lemons 10 English walnuts 

2 oranges 2 bananas 

Dissolve gelatin in ^2 pint cold water; add ^ pint boiling water, 
the juice of the lemons and the sugar; strain and let stand until it begins 
to thicken a little, then stir into it all the fruit and nuts, cut into small 
pieces. Pour into mould to harden, and serve with cream. 

MRS. JOSEPH WARNER SWAIN 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 pound seeded raisins 1 handful flour 

1 pound currants l /2 cup sherry wine 

1 pound brown sugar 2 tablespoons brandy 

1 pound bread (grated) Vz teaspoon mace 

% pound beef suet Nutmeg to taste 

10 eggs Rind and juice of Vz lemon 

Rind and juice of V 2 orange 

Boil 5 hours. Serve hot with a sauce. Miss MARY L. ROBERTS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 121 

SNOW PUDDING 

1/2 tablespoon granulated gelatin 3 eggs (whites) 

Vi cup cold water 3 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup boiling water 3 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon suet 

l /4 cup lemon juice 1 pint hot milk 

Vz teaspoon vanilla 

Soak gelatin in cold water until soft, add boiling water, sugar, and 
lemon juice. When gelatin and sugar are dissolved, strain into a large 
bowl to cool. When gelatin is consistency of a thick syrup, beat whites 
of eggs light, and add them to the jelly, beating until smooth and nearly 
hard; then pour into a mould. 

Make a soft custard of remaining ingredients, being careful that 
custard does not curdle. If it does, set saucepan in a pan of cold water 
and with egg beater, beat until smooth. When cold serve with the pudding. 

Miss L. RAY BALDERSTON 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 pound raisins Vz pound minced candied citron 

1 pound suet (chopped fine) 5 eggs 

% pound stale bread crumbs 1 pound grated carrots 

1 pound brown sugar Rind of 1 lemon (grated) 

1 pound currants 1/2 nutmeg (grated) 

1 A pound flour 1/2 pint brandy 

l /2 pound minced candied orange peel Salt to taste 

Mix all dry ingredients together. Beat the eggs, add to brandy, 
pour over dry ingredients and mix very thoroughly. Pack into greased 
bowls or moulds, boil for 6 hours when made, and another 6 wherj/ifanted 
to use. Enough for 4 puddings. MRS. ALFRED MELLOR 

PLUM PUDDING 

1/2 pound raisins Vz teaspoon cinnamon 

Vi pound currants 1 A teaspoon cloves 

14 pound citron Juice and rind of Vz lemon (grated) 

1/4 loaf (large size) baker's bread 1 wineglass brandy 

(soaked in cold water) 1 cup flour 

4 eggs Vi pound glace cherries 

14 nutmeg 2 ounces beef suet 

Vz pound light brown sugar 

Boil 5 hours. MRS. WILLIAM P. ELWELL 



122 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 pound suet (chopped fine) 1 glass brandy 

1 pound sugar 2 teaspoons ginger 

1 pound stale bread (grated) 2 nutmegs 

1 pound raisins l /4 pint milk 

2 pounds currants A little salt 

Beat well and steam five hours. 

SAUCE 

4 whole eggs beaten light, add l /4 cup melted butter 

1 cup pulverized sugar Flavor with brandy 

Beat a long time. MRS. ROBERT BEATTIE 

PLUM PUDDING 

t pound raisins (stoned) l /z pound citron 

1 pound currants 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 pound suet 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 pound bread crumbs 1 nutmeg 

1 pound sugar J /2 tumbler brandy 

10 eggs 1 handful flour 

Chop the suet fine as possible (removing all strings), add the sugar, 
then the bread, throw in the eggs whole, then raisins, citron, currants 
and spices, beating hard all the time. Then pour in brandy and leave 
it over night in a cold place. Next morning stir in flour, pour into a square 
of strong muslin previously greased and floured, tie not too tight, and boil 
4 hours. Ornament with blanched almonds and serve with a dash of 
brandy over all and lighted at the last moment. One-half the quantity 
is ample for 6 persons rich, but perfectly digestible. A hot wine sauce 
is required. MRS. C. P. TURNER 

PLUM PUDDING 



pounds raisins (seeded) iVz pounds suet 

pounds currants lVz pounds bread crumbs 

pounds sugar 10 eggs 

1/2 pound citron 1 nutmeg 

2 glasses brandy 

Boil 8 hours, and then 2 hours before serving. 

Old English recipe of my mother's and grandmother's. 

Miss ANNE HEYGATE-HALL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 123 

PLUM PUDDING 

1 pound grated bread crumbs 1 tablespoon flour 

1 pound stoned raisins (chopped fine) 1 teacup milk 

1 pound currants 1 teacup brandy and wine mixed 

1 pound brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pound citron (cut fine) Vz teaspoon mace (ground) 

1 pound suet i/ 2 teaspoon cloves 
8 eggs (well beaten) 1 grated nutmeg 

Rub the raisins with flour. Add all the dry ingredients and mix 
well. Then add the liquids little by little and last the eggs. Steam in 
a cloth 8 hours. 

This recipe was given to me more than twenty years ago I have 
always made mine myself, and it has been pronounced by many who 
have eaten it here the only Plum Pudding light and digestible. I am 
sure no one could fail in it. MRS. WILLIAM BURNHAM 

CHEAP PLUM PUDDING 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 cup sour milk 

2 cups chopped raisins 1 teaspoon soda (mixed in sour milk) 

l l /2 cups suet 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup flour 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup molasses 1 small nutmeg 

Boil 3 hours. If sour milk is rich, use some currants instead of full 
quantity raisins. 

SAUCE 

1 cup fine white sugar 1 egg 

1/2 cup butter 1 wineglass wine 

Beat thoroughly together. Scald, not boil, in double boiler. 

MRS. WILLIAM H. TENBROOK 

JOHN'S DELIGHT 

2 cups chopped bread 1 cup raisins and currants mixed (the 
1/2 cup chopped suet former stoned and chopped) 

1/2 cup molasses Vz teaspoon soda (dissolved in milk) 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

A pinch of mace and salt 

Boil 2 hours in pudding boiler. Eat with cold or foaming sauce. 

MRS. WILLIAM BURNHAM 



124 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OCEAN QUEEN PUDDING 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon (small) baking powder 

Their weight in butter, sugar and flour Vi pound preserved ginger 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add 1 egg and half the flour 
then beat it. Then add the other egg and rest of flour and beat it. Add 
ginger cut in small pieces and 1 or 2 tablespoons of the syrup and the 
baking powder. Put in a buttered mould covered with buttered paper 
and steam for 2 hours. Serve with soft custard sauce. 

SOFT CUSTARD SAUCE 

1 pint milk 3 eggs 

1/2 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put milk on to boil in a farina boiler. Beat eggs and sugar together, 
then stir them into boiling milk, and stir over fire until they begin to 
thicken no longer, or it will curdle. MRS. ROBERT BEATTIE 

JOHN'S DELIGHT 

2 cups chopped bread (heaping full) 1 cup raisins 

1/2 cup chopped suet 1 cup sweet milk 

1/2 cup molasses i/ 2 teaspoon cloves 

1/2 teaspoon soda (dissolved in hot 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

water, added to molasses) Pinch of salt, mace 

Boil 2 hours in tin pudding mould. Serve with wine sauce. 
Have often used this, which is a good, wholesome steamed pudding. 

Miss EMMA KLAHR 

JOHN'S DELIGHT 

2 cups chopped bread 1 egg 

1 cup finely chopped suet 1 cup sweet milk 

1/2 cup molasses 1/2 teaspoon baking soda (dissolved in 

1 cup seedless raisins (chopped) milk) 

r 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 
1 cup stoned and cut raisins mixed with 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

currants A pinch of ground mace and of salt 

Boil 2 hours in a pudding boiler. Maple syrup, if available, is much 
better than molasses. Eat with hard or fairy sauce. 

This is much more delicate than a plum pudding, and much less 
trouble. MRS. MARY T. LEWIS GANNETT 



BOOK OF RECIPES 125 

PRUNE PUDDING 

1 tablespoon gelatin 4 eggs (whites) 

l /2 cup cold water Vst cup sugar 

l /z cup boiling water 1 cup prunes 

Soak gelatin in cold water, about 5 minutes; then add boiling water 
and stir until dissolved. Beat the whites of the eggs so stiff that you can 
turn the dish upside down. Add sugar, prunes, and stir in the gelatin 
very slowly, beating all the while. Set in the refrigerator for an hour or 
two, when it will be ready for use. Serve with cream. 

Delicious also made with fresh mashed peaches instead of prunes. 

MRS. BENJAMIN F. RICHARDSON 

DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped dates 1 tablespoon butter (beaten with sugar) 

1 cup nuts (pecan or walnut) 2 tablespoons (heaping) sifted flour 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

3 eggs (beaten together) 

Set baking dish in a pan of water and bake 45 minutes in slow oven. 
Serve with whipped cream. MRS. WALTER T. BAIRD 

FIG PUDDING 

1/2 pound figs 2 eggs 

1 cup chopped suet 1 cup sugar 
2 l / 2 cups stale bread crumbs l /z teaspoon salt 

l /2 cup milk 

Chop figs and suet together, beat eggs, add sugar and salt to them 
then milk. Add this slowly to fig mixture and beat. Steam 3 hours in a 
greased mould. This pudding will keep for 2 or 3 weeks in a cold place. 

Miss L. RAY BALDERSTON 

FIG PUDDING 

2 pounds figs Spices to taste 
1 pound suet J /2 pound flour 

1 cup sugar l /2 pound bread crumbs 

2 eggs 

Cut the figs into small pieces, grate the bread fine, and chop the suet 
very fine. Mix all together with sufficient milk to form a stiff batter, put 
into a buttered mould, and boil 3 hours. Use this with a brandy sauce. 

MRS. HENRY P. BROWN 



126 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FIG PUDDING 

Vi pound crumbled bread 6 ounces suet 

1/2 pound figs 2 eggs 

6 ounces brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

Chop figs and suet; add bread crumbs, sugar, beaten eggs and salt. 
Put in pudding mould, boil 4 hours. Eat with lemon sauce. 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter 4 tablespoons cream 

8 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

1 lemon 

Cream butter, sugar and eggs; grate in lightly the rind of the lemon 
and half the juice; stir thoroughly, adding the cream slowly; cook in 
double boiler until thick and glossy about 10 minutes. 

Miss ANNA L. COALE 



TURKISH PUDDING 

Vi pound nuts 2 teaspoons bread crumbs 

1/2 pound dates 11/2 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

3 eggs (beaten separately) 1/2 cup sugar 

Beat sugar and yolks of eggs; add crumbs, dates and nuts. Beat 
whites and fold in. Bake % hour in moderate oven. Serve with un- 
sweetened whipped cream. MRS. THOMAS RAEBURN WHITE 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

1 cup molasses 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup sweet milk 1 small teaspoon soda 

2 cups Graham flour 1 cup chopped dates or raisins 

Steam 3 hours. 

MRS. W. F. TAFT 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

1 cup seeded raisins (chopped) 1 cup (scant) sweet milk 

1 cup molasses 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in milk) 2 cups Graham flour 

Steam 3 hours. Serve with hard sauce or hot dip. 

Miss MARY L. ROBERTS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 127 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

y 2 cup molasses iy 2 cups Graham flour 

y 4 cup butter 1 teacup (small) raisins 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 cup milk 1 teaspoon cloves 

Mix well the molasses, butter, egg, milk, Graham flour, raisins, 
baking powder and cloves. Steam 4 hours. Serve with hot or hard sauce. 
This quantity serves 6 people. THE MISSES LONGSTRETH 

HOT PUDDING SAUCE 

1 cup sugar 1 dessertspoon flour 

l /2 cup butter 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

14 cup water Juice of y 2 lemon 

Mix well the flour and butter, then add sugar and water. Quantity 
for 6 people. THE MISSES LONGSTRETH 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 egg 1 cup flour 

y 2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

y 2 cup milk 2 squares chocolate (melted in butter) 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix and pour in mould with lid, steam for 1 hour. 

SAUCE 

1 egg (white) 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 

Beat until creamy, then add white of egg, beaten stiff. 

MRS. WILLIAM SHEWELL ELLIS 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

V 2 cup butter 6 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 can grated pineapple 

2 cups soft crumbs 

Cream butter and sugar, then add yolks of eggs, then pineapple. 
Stir thoroughly, then add bread crumbs, then whites of 3 eggs stiffly 
beaten. Put the remaining 3 whites on top, beaten well with confec- 
tioner's sugar. Bake about ^ of an hour in moderate oven. You can 
generally tell when it is done if it is firm. Hawaiian pineapple is the 
best. MRS. ROBERT BEATTIE 



128 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

6 eggs l /z cup cracker crumbs 

3 /4 cup sugar Vanilla 

2 ounces Baker's chocolate Whipped cream 

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs and whites of 2 thoroughly with sugar. 
Melt chocolate with sufficient water to make a paste. Add this with 
cracker crumbs to the beaten eggs. Flavor with vanilla, and lastly fold 
in the whites of 4 eggs whipped to a froth. Butter mould well and strew 
with cracker crumbs before putting in mixture. Steam 1 hour. Water 
must boil constantly. Serve hot or cold with whipped cream. 

MRS. ARTHUR FALKENAU 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pint powdered cracker crumbs 1 quart boiled milk 

l /2 cake chocolate 5 eggs 

1/2 saltspoon salt 

Mix together. When cool add eggs, well beaten, and salt. Boil in 
a mould 1 hour. 

SAUCE 

1 egg 1 tablespoon hot water (or milk) 

1 cup (small) sugar Flavoring 

Beat yolk of egg thoroughly, add sugar and beaten white of egg. 
Beat up very light and just before serving add hot water, milk and flavor- 
ing rose flavoring preferably. MRS. CHARLES REYNOLDS SIMONS 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

6 eggs 1 quart milk 

3 ounces Baker's chocolate Sugar to taste 

Grate the chocolate very fine and moisten with a little milk; put 
the rest of the quart of milk over the fire, when it boils mix in the choco- 
late until well dissolved, sugar to taste. Take off the fire and let stand 
until cool. Mix in the yolks of the eggs and put in a little buttered dish 
and bake until well done. Then take whites of the eggs beaten stiff with 
a little powdered sugar and spread them over the top of the baked choco- 
late and put back in the oven to bake a light brown. 

MRS. HARRY A. HORNOR 



BOOK OF RECIPES 129 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

V 2 cup milk 1 square chocolate (melted) 

l /2 CU P sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup flour Whipped cream 

Steam 1 hour. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. FRANK H. BURPEE 

OATMEAL PUDDING 

Oatmeal (cooked) Sugar 

Milk Egg 

Vanilla 

Let cooked oatmeal cool; add milk, sugar and yolk of egg beaten 
thoroughly, and put in baking pan. Then add vanilla and sugar to the 
white of egg beaten stiff, and put on top; brown in oven, and serve hot. 

Used successfully by a German cook I once had. 

MRS. C. SHILLARD-SMITH 

INDIAN PUDDING 

7 tablespoons (heaping) yellow cornmeal 1 cup cold water 
1 cup molasses Vfe cup butter or lard 

1 quart boiling milk 1 teaspoon (heaping) salt 

1 teaspoon (heaping) mixed spice 

Pour the boiling milk upon the mixture and stir until there are no 
lumps. Just before putting in the oven add the cold water. Stir several 
times while baking. Bake 1 hour or more. 

MRS. MARY T. NICHOLS 

SPONGE PUDDING 

1 pint milk 1/2 cup flour 

1 tablespoon melted butter Vi cup sugar 

Pinch of salt 5 eggs (yolks) 

Put milk in double boiler, with melted butter and salt ; when hot (not 
boiling) stir into it the flour and sugar (which has been rolled and stirred 
smooth with a little cold water). Then add beaten yolks of eggs. Do 
not cook in boiler. Turn into pudding dish and bake in pan of water 
in a hot oven for ^ hour. Serve at once. Should be light-brown crust. 

THE MISSES LONGSTRETH 



130 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



MARSKMALLOW PUDDING 



1 quart sweet milk 

2 tablespoons (rounded) comstarch 
1/2 cup cold milk 

A pinch of salt 
3 /4 cup sugar 



Vz spoon butter 

2 eggs (whites) 

4 tablespoons melted chocolate 

Vanilla 

Cream 



Boil the sweet milk; while boiling, add cornstarch, dissolved in the 
cold milk ; salt, sugar, and butter. Stir all rapidly and cook until thick. 
Remove from fire, divide into two parts; into one half stir lightly the well 
beaten whites of eggs; into the other half stir melted chocolate; flavor 
with vanilla. Put into mould in alternate spoonfuls, and serve cold with 
cream. 

Miss MARY MASSEY 



l /4 cup sugar 
Vz cup flour 



SPONGE PUDDING 

(A New England recipe) 

1 pint boiled milk 
l /4 cup butter 
5 eggs (beaten separately) 



Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk, and stir into the 
boiling milk. Cook until it thickens and is smooth ; add the butter, and 
when well mixed stir it into the well beaten yolks of the eggs, and then 
add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in cups, or in a shallow dish, in a hot 
oven. Place the dish in a pan of hot water while in the oven. Serve with 
Creamy Sauce. 



CREAMY SAUCE 



l /4 cup butter 

Vz cup powdered sugar (sifted) 



2 tablespoons cream 
2 tablespoons wine 



Cream the butter; add the sugar slowly, then the wine and cream. 
Beat well, and just before serving place the bowl over hot water and stir 
till smooth and creamy, but not enough to melt the butter. Omit the 
wine, if desired, and use half a cup of cream and 1 teaspoon of lemon or 
vanilla. If the wine is used, and the sauce has a curdled appearance, it 
may be removed by beating thoroughly and heating just enough to blend 
the materials smoothly. 

Miss MAUDE G. HOPKINS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 131 

SPONGE PUDDING 

l /4 cup sugar 1 pint milk (boiled) 

Vz cup flour l /4 cup butter 

5 eggs (beaten separately) 

Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk and stir into the 
boiling milk. Cook until it thickens and is smooth; add the butter, and 
when well mixed, stir it with the well beaten yolks of the eggs, and add 
the whites beaten stiff. Bake in cups or a shallow dish in a hot oven. 
Place the dish in a pan of hot water while in the oven. 

MRS. MARY T. LEWIS GANNETT 

PUFF PUDDING 

1 pint milk 6 eggs 

l /z pound flour A pinch of salt 

Mix milk and flour slowly together, add the eggs beaten well together; 
put the salt in the eggs before beating. Grease an earthen pudding dish, 
and bake in a well-heated oven from ^ to ^4 of an hour, according to 
the oven. Serve the instant it is done. Never try this pudding by 
straws, etc. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 
1 tablespoon butter (well creamed) 5 tablespoons confectioner's sugar 

Mix both well together and add 10 large ripe berries, or enough ber- 
ries to make quite a soft sauce. 

MRS. JOHN GRIBBEL 

INNOCENT PUDDING 

1 pint bread crumbs 3 eggs 

1 pint milk l /z teaspoon salt 

Bake in oven. 

SAUCE 

1 cup (small) water 1 tablespoon butter 

1 soupspoon cornstarch 1 cup sugar 

Pinch of salt 

Stir in 1 pint of boiling water. Boil up till smooth, stirring all the 
time. Add rind and juice of 1 lemon. 

Miss EMILY CAMPBELL 



132 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING 

1 pint New Orleans molasses Vi pound butter 

1 teacup flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teacup milk 7 eggs 

Beat whites separately, bake % of an hour in hot oven. As soon 
as done eat with Fairy Butter. 

MRS. MARY S. JOHNSON 



FRUIT PUDDING 

4 cups flour 3 eggs 

l / 2 pound beef suet 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Vz pound seeded (not seedless) raisins 1 teaspoon mace 

Vk pound currants 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Vi pound citron 1 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup syrup molasses 2 cups milk 

Boil in a tin mould 3 hours. 

SAUCE 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon flour 

l /2 cup butter 1 egg 

1 wineglass wine 

When ready for the table, add 1 pint of boiling milk. 
An old recipe used by my mother and grandmother, as well as my- 
self, and is especially good. 

MRS. HUGH MC!LVAIN 



APPLE PUDDING 

1 cup milk A good pinch of salt 

2 tablespoons shortening (butter and Flour 

lard) Apples 

2 teaspoons baking powder Cinnamon 

Make a batter of the milk, shortening, baking powder, salt and flour 
enough to thicken. Fill the bottom of a baking pan with apples cut in 
small pieces and sugared; add a little cinnamon to the apples and cover 
batter over them. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. Serve with caramel 
sauce. 

MRS. H. L. BARNES 



BOOK OF RECIPES 133 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

1 pint huckleberries 1V 2 cups flour 

1 cup molasses 1 egg 

1 teaspoon (level) soda A pinch of salt 

Dissolve the soda in a little warm water and beat it into the molasses 
until it foams; add the egg and flour. Beat thoroughly, add a pinch of 
salt and the cleaned huckleberries dusted with flour. Bake in a moderate 
oven (it burns readily) or steam it. Serve with hard sauce flavored with 
Jamaica rum. Steam 1^4 hours. 

MRS. THOMAS J. GARLAND 



HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

1 quart huckleberries 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

1 pint molasses 1 teaspoon ground cloves 

Flour 1/2 nutmeg (grated) 

1 teaspoon bicarbonate of soda 

Mix the berries and spices together in a bowl. Dissolve soda in a 
little boiling water, and beat into the molasses until light and frothy. 
Mix with the berries and make pretty stiff with flour. In a pudding 
mould, boil about 2y hours, or steam from 3 to 3^2 hours. Serve with 
hard pudding sauce (Fairy Butter), or any desired liquid sauce. 

MRS. ROBERT P. BROWN 



LEMON CREAM PUDDING 

4 eggs 6 tablespoons granulated sugar 

2 tablespoons hot water Juice and grated rind of 1 large lemon 

Beat the yolks of eggs, 4 tablespoons of the sugar, and the lemon 
juice and rind together. Add the hot water, mix thoroughly, put over 
the fire (in small double boiler is best) and stir constantly until it thickens. 
Have ready, before doing this, the whites of the eggs and 2 tablespoons 
of the sugar, beaten very stiff. When the yolks, sugar and lemon are 
cooked, stir quickly while hot into the whites, beating until thoroughly 
mixed. Eat cold. 

This is nice served in sherbet glasses, and is so rich that it is well 
to serve some sort of dainty unsweetened crackers with it, rather than 
cake. 

Miss ANNA M. JOHNSON 



134 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

Flour enough to make stiff batter 1 small teaspoon soda (dissolved in sour 

2 quarts huckleberries milk or water) 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup molasses 

3 eggs (beaten light) 

Flour the fruit and stir in carefully without breaking. Steam 2 
hours in a mould. 

MRS. SAMUEL S. THOMPSON 



BLACKBERRY PUDDING 

y 2 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

3 tablespoons melted butter .'. pint flour 

1 egg (beaten stiff) 3 tablespoons baking powder 

1 box blackberries 

Beat the egg, add sugar, then melted butter, then milk; lastly, stir 
in flour with baking powder in it. Put one-half the dough in a pudding 
dish, cover with the blackberries, add rest of dough, and bake well. Eat 
with hard sauce. 

This recipe was taken from Good Housekeeping years ago, and has 
always been thought delicious by every one partaking of it at our table. 

Miss ANNA JOHNSON 

DELIGHTFUL PUDDING 

1 quart milk Vi pound flour 

l /4 pound mashed potatoes 3 eggs (beaten separately) 

l /2 teaspoon salt 

Boil the milk and let it cool. Add the flour to the mashed potatoes; 
beat the potatoes, flour and yolks together, then add the beaten whites 
and salt. Bake in a slow oven ^ hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

Miss HILDA JUSTICE 

COLD PUDDING SAUCE 

1 pint whipped cream 1/2 cup powdered sugar 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

Beat all together and flavor. 

MRS. CHARLES D. Cox, 
President, The Woman's Club of Phoenixville, Pa. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 135 

ORANGE PUDDING 

4 oranges 2 eggs 

Granulated sugar 1 tablespoon (heaping) cornstarch 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Slice the oranges thin, sprinkle with granulated sugar. Make a 
custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, and cornstarch dissolved in cold milk 
and stirred in the custard on the fire. When the custard is cool pour 
it over the sliced oranges. Beat up the whites of the eggs with powdered 
sugar and spread or drop over the top and put in the oven to brown. 

Miss HENRIETTA W. PEARSALL 



CARROT PUDDING 

1 cup white potatoes (grated) 1 cup flour 

1 cup carrots (grated) 1 cup raisins 

1 cup (heaping) chopped suet 1 cup currants 

1 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and boil in a quart bowl (or pudding tin) for 3 hours; put it to 
boil in pot of boiling water. To be eaten with hard sauce. 
Often tried and highly approved. 

MRS. HENRY C. MC!LVAINE 



CARROT PUDDING 

1 egg 1 cup sugar 

% cup suet 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 

1 cup grated raw carrot 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 

1 cup grated raw white potato 1 grated nutmeg 

1 cup raisins Juice and rind of 1 lemon or orange 

1 cup currants 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup flour A little salt 

Boil in pudding mould 3 hours. 

SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 wineglass wine, brandy or sour jelly 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon flour 

1 egg 1 cup boiling water 

Pudding can be served with the above or a hard sauce. 

MRS. JOHN I. McGuiGAN 



136 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

RIPE GOOSEBERRY PUDDING 

Ripe gooseberries 4 ounces sugar 

3 eggs 2 ounces butter 

4 ounces Naples biscuits (bruised) 

Fill a jar nearly full with ripe gooseberries and put the jar into a pan 
of boiling water over the fire, stewing them till the juice flows out. Pour 
off a pint of the juice and stir into it the sugar, butter and biscuits. Beat 
separately the yolks and white of the eggs; stir in when the juice is 
cold, the yolks first, then the whites, and bake for y 2 hour. Serve hot or 
cold, with sugar sifted over. 

MRS. THERON I. CRANE 



Why there they are both, baked in that pie. TITUS ANDRONICUS. 



(137) 



PENNSYLVANIA APPLE PIE 

Apples Cinnamon 

Sugar Butter 

Cream 

Pare and core 3 or 4 good-sized greening apples. Cut the apples 
in halves crosswise, leaving the holes to be filled with sugar and cinnamon. 
After having lined a pie pan with good light crust, place the apple halves 
so that they touch (only 1 layer), then fill the holes with sugar and cin- 
namon and small lumps of butter on top. When the pie is quite done, 
remove from the oven just long enough to pour a cup of rich cream over 
all and return to oven for a few minutes only, then serve hot. 

MRS. THERON I. CRANE 

MARLBOROUGH PIE 

u- 

1 lemon 1 tablespoon (rounding) butter 

3 apples (medium size) 3 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup sugar 1 saltspoon ground cinnamon 

Grate the rind of the lemon; peel apples, grate down to core; add 
sugar (take more if apples are sour), butter and yolks of eggs. Put all 
in double boiler until it thickens, then take it off and add the juice of the 
lemon, cinnamon, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, added to the mix- 
ture; beat together lightly, put into crust and bake in a moderate oven. 
Don't put a top crust on. MRS. EDWARD L. REYNOLDS 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE 

1 lemon (2 if small) 3 cups boiling water 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons (heaping) cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Make rich pie crust and line two tins; prick with fork and bake a 
golden brown. Fill with the following mixture: 

Dissolve the cornstarch by stirring into the boiling water (must be 
rather thick); add grated rind and juice of lemon and 1>2 cups of the 
sugar with the beaten yolks of 3 eggs and white of 1. Stir all into the 
cooked starch and water. Fill tins and cover with meringue made from 
whites of 2 eggs, the remaining > cup of sugar and vanilla. Put in oven 
and brown. MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 

(139) 



140 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE 

3 eggs (yolks) V 2 lemon (juice and rind) 

11/2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons (even) flour 

l l /2 cups water Butter the size of a walnut 

Put sugar, beaten yolks, 1 cup water, butter and lemon in double 
boiler. Cook until thick. Blend flour with remaining y cup of water 
and stir into custard, boiling a minute or two. Pour this into baked shell 
when cool. Whip whites of eggs, allowing a scant tablespoon of sugar 
to each egg. Put this on top of pie and place in oven a few minutes to 
brown slightly. 

SHELL 

1 cup flour Pinch of salt 

1 tablespoon lard A little water 

In making shell use very little water and handle as little as possible. 
Bake in pie plate before putting in custard. 

MRS. GEORGE MCKEOWN 



LEMON PIE 

1 lemon (rind and juice) 6 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Butter the size of an egg 

1 cup boiling water 2 eggs 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold water. Pour the boiling water 
over it. Then add the butter and sugar. When cold add the other 
ingredients. 

MRS. WILLIAM BURNHAM 



OUR FAVORITE LEMON PIE 

4 eggs Pinch of salt 

2 or 3 lemons, according to size l l /z cups granulated sugar 

1 tablespoon (heaping) flour 1 quart milk 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix yolks of eggs, juice and rind of lemons, sugar, flour and salt. 
Pour on this the milk, which has been brought to a boil with the butter; 
then add the whites of the eggs beaten very stiff; they rise to the top 
and brown beautifully. Bake with under crust only. 

MRS. LEWIS R. DICK 



BOOK OF RECIPES 141 

LEMON PIE 

Lump of butter the size of a walnut 1 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons flour 

3 eggs (whites saved for meringue) 1 juicy lemon (grate rind first) 

This makes 1 pie. 

MRS. EDWARD H. BONSALL 



MARYLAND LEMON PIE 

2 cups sugar a /2 cup grated crackers 

V 2 cup butter 4 eggs 

1 cup milk 2 lemons (juice and grated rind) 

Beat the eggs separately and put as a meringue on top if desired. 
This makes 2 good-sized pies. 

MRS. HARRY G. MICHENER 



LEMON CUSTARD PIE 

1 cup (large) sugar 1 tablespoon sifted flour 

1 cup (small) boiling water 1 lemon (rind and juice) 

Butter the size of an egg 3 eggs 

Mix sugar and flour, then hot water, butter, lemon and yolks of eggs. 
Put on fire, let boil up only once. Fill the crust. 

For meringue, use 1 tablespoon sifted sugar in whites of eggs. Pour 
over pie and brown. 

Miss MARY L. ROBERTS 



ORANGE OR LEMON PIE 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon flour 

1 cup sugar Butter the size of a walnut 

1 lemon or orange 3 /4 cup milk 

Beat yolks of eggs, flour, sugar, butter and lemon or orange (grated 
rind and juice), all together, then add milk. Line a pie plate with rich 
crust, and pour in. Then beat whites to a stiff froth and put in last; stir 
lightly and bake. 

I prefer the Orange Pie, but both are delicious. 

MRS. H. L. BARNES 



142 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

PUMPKIN PIE 

Pumpkin l l /4 grated nutmegs 

6 eggs 1 tablespoon (heaping) cinnamon 
l /4 pound melted butter 2 tablespoons rose water 

2 cups (large) sugar */2 cup brandy 

V4 teaspoon salt 

Pare the pumpkin and cut into small squares; wash and put into a 
kettle with about a cup of water to a moderate-sized pumpkin; cook, 
then mash through a colander while hot; add melted butter, eggs well 
beaten, sugar, grated nutmegs, cinnamon, rose water, brandy and salt. 
Put in pie crust and bake. MRS. GEORGE L. MITCHELL 

PUMPKIN PIE 

2 pounds pumpkin 1 grated nutmeg 

7 eggs 1 wineglass brandy and wine, mixed 
1 pound brown sugar Currants 

% pound butter (creamed) A little salt 

Va teaspoon ground mace A dash of lemon 

Boil and strain 2 pounds of the pumpkin which has been nicely 
skinned. Squeeze very dry. To the pumpkin thus drained, add sugar, 
butter, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, brandy and wine. Beat all well together. 
Add the yolks of eggs well beaten, currants if liked, salt and lemon. 

MRS. JOSHUA ASH PEARSON 

PUMPKIN PIE 

3 cups pumpkin 1 teaspoon ginger 

6 eggs 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup milk l /2 teaspoon mace 

1 cup cream 1 tablespoon Jamaica rum 

1 tablespoon good brandy 

Pare and cut pumpkin in pieces. Put them in saucepan with enough 
water to cover. Stew until tender, then press through a sieve. To every 
cup of pumpkin add 1 tablespoon of butter and % teaspoon of salt; mix 
and let stand until cold. When cold, put 3 cups of the pumpkin into 
a bowl, add to it the milk, cream, ginger, cinnamon and mace. Beat the 
eggs very light and add to the mixture. Flavor with Jamaica rum and 
brandy. Line two deep pie plates with good pastry and fill with the 
mixture. Bake in a moderate oven for about 40 minutes. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



143 



MINCE MEAT 



4 pounds tender beef (pin bone) 

3 pounds beef suet 

8 pounds apples (chopped fine) 

3 pounds cleaned currants 

3 pounds seeded raisins (not seedless) 

6 pounds white sugar 



2 pounds citron (cut fine) 

2 pounds candied orange (cut fine) 

1 ounce ground cinnamon 

1 A ounce ground cloves 

4 ground nutmegs 

1 quart Madeira wine 



1 pint brandy 

Boil meat in salted water until done, and after removing all fat, chop 
fine, remove all membrane and chop suet; mix a little salt with the suet 
to remove the fresh taste. Mix all together very thoroughly and pack 
in glass jars and close tightly. This will keep indefinitely. 

MRS. J. GIBSON MC!LVAIN 

ENGLISH MINCE MEAT 



1 pound suet (cut very fine) 
1 pound apples (cut very fine) 
1 pound sugar 

3 pounds raisins (large seeded) 
3 pounds currants 



l /2 orange peel 
1/2 lemon peel 
l /2 citron 
4 nutmegs 
1 quart whiskey 



Grated rind of 3 fresh lemons 

Cider may be used instead of whiskey if preferred. 

MRS. FRED W. TAYLOR 



1 pint new milk 

4 tablespoons (heaping) sugar 

2 tablespoons (heaping) flour 



CREAM PIE 

1 egg 

Butter the size of an egg 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
6 to 9 oranges 



Boil milk, reserving ^ cup cold. Mix with the cold milk the sugar, 
butter, egg and flour. Stir the mixture into the boiling milk, stirring 
constantly until well boiled. Add vanilla when taken from the fire. 
Split the sponge cake and put slices of orange and the custard between 
and on top of the layers. 

A good sponge cake for this is made with 



3 eggs 

3 tablespoons cold water 



1 cup sugar 
1 cup flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 



Miss HELEN LIPPINCOTT 



144 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



MINCE MEAT 



H/2 pounds boiled fresh tongue 

2 pounds beef suet (chopped fine) 

4 pounds pippin apples (chopped fine) 

4 pounds raisins (stoned and chopped) 

2 pounds currants 

2 pounds powdered sugar 

1 quart wine 

1 quart brandy 



1 glass rose water 

2 nutmegs 

l /2 ounce cinnamon 
1/4 ounce ground cloves 
l /4 ounce ground mace 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 large oranges 
1/2 pound citron 

MRS. THOMAS J. GARLAND 



MINCE MEAT 



iy 2 pounds boiled meat 

2 pounds suet (chopped fine) 

2 pounds apples 

2 pounds raisins 

2 pounds currants 

1 pound citron 

2 pounds sugar 
1 pint brandy 



1 pint sherry 

1 wineglass rose water 

2 nutmegs 

1/2 ounce cinnamon and mace 
1/2 ounce cloves 
1 teaspoon salt 

3 oranges and grated rind of 1 
1 pint sweet cider 

MRS. LIVINGSTON E. JONES 



CHEESE CAKE PIE 



3 eggs 

10 cent cottage cheese 

1 cup sugar 



1 tablespoon flour 

Juice and rind of 1 small lemon 

1/2 cup cream 



Beat yolks well and add cheese mashed fine with fork, the sugar 
and flour well mixed, then lemon and cream. Strain through sieve and 
add egg whites beaten till stiff. Line pan with crust, fill with mixture 
and bake about M hour. MRS. FRANK H. BURPEE 



1 pint cottage cheese 
1 pound sugar 



CHEESE CAKE PIE 

l /4 pound butter 
8 eggs 
1 lemon (rind and juice) 



Mix together the sugar, butter, beaten yolks of eggs, rind and juice 
of lemon, cottage cheese rubbed smooth, and lastly the beaten whites 
of the eggs. This quantity is sufficient for 3 pies. 

MRS. JOSEPHINE L. ADAMS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 145 

BOSTON CREAM PIE 



3 eggs (beaten separately) l 1 /^ cups sifted flour 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon (large) baking powder 

3 tablespoons milk 

Bake in two tins in rather quick oven; when done and nearly cool, 
split with a sharp knife and spread with the following mixture, replace 
the divided half and then ice with boiled frosting. 

MIXTURE 

1 pint milk l /z cup flour 

2 eggs 1 ounce butter 
1 cup sugar Vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler; when beginning to boil, stir in, after 
beating together, eggs, sugar, flour, then add butter. Flavor with vanilla. 

BOILED ICING 

1 cup pulverized sugar 1 gill boiling water 

White of 1 egg 

To the pulverized sugar add the boiling water. Let this boil until 
it hardens in cold water, then pour in a fine stream over the white of 
egg, well beaten. Ice quickly. 

MRS. Louis H. MUTSCHLER 



FLORIDA CREAM PIE 

1 egg l /2 cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter Flour enough to make a stiff batter 

z /3 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Bake in a jelly tin. Cut in half and place filling between. 

FILLING 

1 teaspoon butter 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour J /2 cup sugar 

Yolk of 1 egg 

Beat together and cook with cup of boiling water, adding water 
gradually while beating. Use as a hot dessert. 

MRS. GRACE S. WILLIAMS, 

President, Bristol Travel Club 
10 



146 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHEESE CAKE PIE 

Have ready a pie crust made with 

1 pound flour % pound lard and butter, mixed 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cut or chop this thoroughly with a knife (never press with a knife 
or mix with a spoon, as it tends to toughen the dough) ; add enough cold 
water to make a dough. Kept over night in refrigerator improves it. 
Now take 

li/2 cups cottage cheese 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons cream J /2 cup raisins 
Vfc cup sugar Vz teaspoon salt 

Press cheese through sieve or potato squeezer; add all ingredients 
to cheese, the eggs last, well beaten. Pour into a deep pie plate lined 
with the dough, and sprinkle with ground cinnamon. Bake in a quick 
oven over 30 minutes. 

Miss HELEN A. CHILDS 

CHEESE CAKE PIE 

5 cent pat of cottage cheese 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

IVi cups sweet milk 1 orange (grated rind and juice), or 

1 tablespoon (scant) butter % glass sherry wine 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add cheese. Beat light; 
then add flour and flavoring and eggs. Beat well and add the milk last. 
Beat again, and bake in pastry shells. Bake about 40 minutes. This 
makes 2 pies. 

MRS. WALTER C. MC!NTIRE 

AUNT ABBY'S BANBURY TARTS 

2 lemons 2 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 pound seeded raisins 

Grate the peel of 1 lemon, chop the inside of both. Chop the raisins. 
Beat the eggs slightly, and put all the ingredients together. Make a 
good pie crust, cut with a round large cookie cutter and place enough 
of the mixture upon the rounds to fold in ; press the edges together firmly 
like a turnover, and bake in an oven the right temperature for pies. 

MRS. EDWIN MARTIN 



BOOK OF RECIPES 147 

FILLING FOR BANBURY TARTS 

1 cup seeded raisins (chopped fine) 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon- (rind and juice) 

Miss JEAN A. FLANIGAN 



BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs (yolks) 

1 cup water 1 Vfc teaspoons vanilla 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 tablespoon flour 

First let water and sugar come to a boil, then add butter and yolks, 
and finally vanilla. Meantime, have flour dissolved in cold water, as you 
would for gravy. Put it in last and beat a few minutes while the mix- 
ture is warm, then cook all together for a few minutes. 

Pie crust should be baked first. Fill crust with mixture, cover with 
whites of the eggs whipped; leave it in oven until whites are brown. 

THE MISSES LONGSTRETH 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

1 A cup butter 1 cup preserved strawberries 

1 cup sugar Nutmeg 
5 eggs Vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs (saving 2 whites for 
meringue), strawberries, a little nutmeg and vanilla. Bake on an under 
crust. Cover with meringue, and brown. This makes 2 pies. 

MRS. CHARLES D. Cox, 
President, The Woman's Club of Phcenixville 

CHERRY POT PIE 

2 quarts flour 6 pounds cherries (4 pounds sour, 2 
1 tablespoon lard pounds sweet) 

Vi pound butter 1 l /z cups molasses (the best) 

1 cup water 

Layer of cherries, sugar to taste, then layer of crust; and another 
layer of cherries and sugar, then crust. Boil about 2 hours. Brown in 
oven the last half hour. 

Miss MATILDA BAIRD 



148 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

PEACH TART 

Bake flaky pastry on the outside of fluted patty pans. Prick all 
over with a fork before baking. Remove from tins when baked. Brush 
the edge of the paste with the white of an egg and roll in chopped almonds. 
Then place half a peach into each shell; pour on a little syrup and cover 
with meringue. Set in a slow oven and dry out the meringue without 
browning. After the tarts have been removed from oven, spread a tea- 
spoon of currant jelly over the meringue and sprinkle with chopped 
pistachio nuts. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



LEMON FOR TARTS 

1 pound granulated sugar Rind of 2 lemons grated, and the juice 

l /4 pound butter of 3 

6 eggs (well beaten) 

Put in a double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens. Keep 
in a quart glass jar, and when needed for tarts, cover small patty tins 
with puff paste or rich pie crust, and put a heaping teaspoon of the jelly 
in each and bake until the crust is delicately done. These are eaten cold. 

An old English recipe of my mother's. 

MRS. THOMAS THEODORE WATSON 



PLAIN PIE CRUST 

1 quart flour l / 4 pound butter 

1/2 pound lard 1 teaspoon salt 

1/2 glass (small) ice water 

Sift flour into a bowl, cut into it the lard, butter and salt; mix thor- 
oughly. Then stir in ice-cold water, just enough to form a dough (about 
l /i small glass), using a silver knife to stir. Use your hands, in mixing, 
as little as possible, after adding the water. Flour the pie-board, take 
about half the dough for the lower crust, and roll it out thin, using very 
little flour in rolling out. The rest of the dough is to be rolled very thin 
for the top crust. 

MRS. THOMAS SHALLCROSS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 149 

COCOANUT PUDDING (PIE) 

1 cocoanut (grated) 1 tablespoon brandy 

% pound sugar 1 tablespoon rose water 

3 eggs 1 teacup cream 

A little nutmeg and salt 

Simmer the sugar in the milk of the cocoanut, stir in the grated nut 
and let stand until cold. Beat the eggs light and stir in, adding the other 
ingredients, and beating all well. Make only of ripe cocoanut. Use 
only an under crust. This amount makes 2 well-filled pies. 

MRS. T. WILLIAM KIMBER 

POTATO PUDDING PIE 

10 eggs 1 pound sugar 

1 pound butter 2 pounds potatoes (beaten very light) 

1 pint cream Lemon or nutmeg to taste 

Line pie plates with pastry and fill with the mixture. 

MRS. NEWTON E. WOOD, 
President, The Neighbors, Hatboro, Pa. 



\ 



JDcssfftsi 

Oh, in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose. SHAKESPEARE. 



(151) 



CODDLED APPLES 

8 apples 1 pint water 

1 pint sugar Slices of lemon 

Boil sugar and water to a syrup; pare the apples and put into this 

syrup; keep well basted with the syrup, but do not stir. When apples 

are quite tender remove from syrup and put on dish in which they will 

be served let syrup cook until almost jellied, then pour it over the apples 

with a few thin slices of lemon, and serve with whipped or plain cream. 

MRS. SAMUEL P. WETHERILL 

APPLES ON THE HALF SHELL 

(Pennsylvania Dutch Style) 

Select large, firm, tart apples. Pare and core. Slice into two or 
three parts, according to the size of apples, by transverse cuts that is, 
making a thick ring like a doughnut. Wash and place in shallow pan. 
Sprinkle with granulated sugar and cinnamon. Add a little water to 
prevent scorching. Bake in medium oven for J^ hour. Serve on platter 
with beef or fowl. MRS. HENRY SAFFORD HALE 

APPLE CREAM 

2 apples (grated) White of 1 egg (beaten) 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Grate apples into a bowl, add other ingredients and beat 20 minutes. 
Garnish with cubes of red jelly. A vanilla sauce can be made of the 
yolk to serve with the cream. MRS. SAMUEL S. THOMPSON 

BALTIMORE FLOAT 

14 peck greening apples A little grated nutmeg 

6 tablespoons (heaping) sugar Whites of 2 eggs (beaten) 

Cut the apples in quarters, pare and core them. Steam them until 
they are soft, then mash through a colander. Add sugar and a little 
grated nutmeg. Stand them aside to get perfectly cold, then add the 
beaten whites of eggs. Now continue beating the mixture until it is snow- 
white after rather prolonged beating. The Float is not right unless it is 
perfectly white and very light. Serve with either plain or whipped cream. 

MRS. CHARLES MACL/ELLAN TOWN 

(153) 



154 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BROWN BETTY 

Vi peck apples Cinnamon 

1 loaf bread Cloves 

Butter Nutmeg 

Sugar Raisins 

Cut apples in quarters, stew in rich syrup the day before the Betty 
is to be made. Place on ice. Soak y 2 loaf of bread in water, shred the 
other half, cutting off and discarding the crusts. Line porcelain pudding 
pan with pieces of stewed apple, pour some of the juice over them; cut 
butter in dice, spread thickly over fruit; squeeze out soaked bread, place 
layer of this over apples, then a handful of sugar, a pinch of cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg, a few large raisins, shredded bread, butter cut in dice, 
more fruit, bread, spices, butter and sugar, until pan is filled. Bake 
1 hour in a moderate oven. Baste with fruit juice and sprinkle with 
water. Cover pudding part of time while in oven. Serve either hot or 
cold with hard or cream sauce, or rich cream. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

BAKED BANANAS 

6 bananas (cut in pieces 3 A inch thick) Juice of 1 lemon 

6 tablespoons sugar 1 */2 dozen cloves 

Pieces of butter in holes 

Bake in oven about half an hour. Use plenty of butter. Bananas 
should be of pinkish color when finished, juicy, and browned on top. 

MRS. FRANKLIN BAKER, JR. 

STRAWBERRY TAPIOCA 

4 tablespoons (heaping) instantaneous White of 1 egg 

tapioca Vfe cup sugar 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoons strawberry preserve or 

jam 

Soak the tapioca in a little water or milk. Put the milk on to boil, 
add the sugar; when dissolved add the tapioca and cook ^ hour in a 
double boiler; add a pinch of salt. Take from the fire and put in your 
pudding dish, then stir the strawberry through the pudding, then part 
of the beaten white of egg, and spread the rest over the top. Put in the 
oven about 15 minutes. To be eaten with cream. 

Miss HENRIETTA W. PEARSALL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 155 

PEACH OR STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

1 quart flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 pint milk 

Butter the size of a small teacup 

Rub all into the flour, making a paste, and put on two pie plates. 
When the crust is done split each piece with a hot knife, spread over 
each a thin layer of butter and a thick layer of sweetened cut peaches 
or strawberries while hot. Serve with sugar and cream. 

MRS. LEWIS F. SHOEMAKER 

ORANGE LOAF 

Juice of 2 oranges 1 cup granulated sugar 

1 lemon 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon gelatin 

Cook sugar, lemon and orange juice, yolks of eggs and gelatin together 
until thick; then beat in whites of eggs. Serve with whipped cream on 
top. MRS. ALFRED MARSHALL 

SOUFFLE OF RICE 

4 tablespoons rice 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 quart milk 6 eggs 

1 tablespoon vanilla 

Cook the rice in the milk with the sugar. When done remove from 
the fire, and when cooled but still warm, add to it yolks of 4 eggs, 6 whites 
beaten to a stiff froth, and a tablespoon of vanilla. Mix well, and pour 
into a deep, buttered fireproof dish. Sprinkle powdered sugar on the 
top and set it in a cool oven. Leave it until it has risen, then serve 
immediately. MRS. H. L. BARNES 

PRUNE SOUFFLfi 

l /2 pound prunes 5 eggs 

5 tablespoons pulverized sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs very light and stir in pulverized sugar. Stew 
prunes soft, drain them, remove the stones, then chop fine. Add the 
chopped prunes and 2 tablespoons of juice to the beaten eggs and turn 
into a baking dish. Bake about 20 minutes, or until puffed up and golden 
brown. Serve immediately with cream. MRS. CHARLES E. NOBLIT 



156 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

COFFEE CUSTARD 

1 pint cold coffee 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg (yolk) 

Boil and fill into custard cups, and spread the following over the 
tops of the cups: 

1 egg (white) 1 tablespoon sugar 

Sprinkle chopped walnuts on top, and brown in oven. 

MRS. FREDERICK L. SEEGER 



COFFEE CUSTARD 

y 2 cup Java coffee 1 pint milk 

2 eggs 

Boil coffee and add to boiling milk; sweeten to taste. Beat yolks 
of eggs and stir in the milk. Cook 5 minutes after all are in. Beat up 
whites and drop on top of the cups and brown slightly. Serve cold in 
custard cups. 

MRS. CHARLES A. LONGSTRETH 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

1 pint milk J /2 cup granulated sugar 
l /2 cup brown sugar 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler. Add melted brown sugar, moistened 
with a little of the hot milk to keep it from lumps. Do not burn sugar, 
only melt. Then add yolks of 3 eggs and whites of 2, beaten together 
very light with granulated sugar. Stir until it comes to a boil. Remove 
from fire and add vanilla. Let cool, and when ready to serve, prepare 
the following: 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons jelly 

Powdered sugar 

Beat whites of eggs very light, add small quantity of powdered sugar 
until stiff, then beat in jelly, until egg is pink in color. Do not leave 
jelly in lumps. Drop egg in kisses, on top of custard after it has been 
put in bowl for serving. Custard should be consistency of Floating 
Island. 

MRS. FRANKLIN BAKER, JR. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 157 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 ounce (light) gelatin % pint milk 

Va pint water 1 coffee cup (heaping) sugar 

1 vanilla bean Lady fingers 

l l /z pints cream 

Dissolve gelatin in the water, stirring until it comes to a boil. Have 
ready a vanilla bean simmered 15 minutes in the milk in a double boiler. 
Add the gelatin to the milk and strain it over the sugar and set away 
to cool. As soon as it begins to stiffen (it must not be too stiff) have 
ready the cream whipped to a froth. Mix quickly with the gelatin, hav- 
ing ready your moulds lined with lady fingers. Pour in the mixture and 
set in a cool place until stiff enough to turn out in form. 

MRS. MORGAN BUNTING 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 pint whipped cream 2 teaspoons sherry 

l /2 cup powdered sugar V4 teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon (scant) gelatin *4 cup boiling water 

Cover gelatin with cold water and soak ]/z hour. Whip cream, place 
on sieve to drain. Line glasses with sponge cake. Then turn cream into 
large basin; flavor and sweeten, dissolve gelatin again in boiling water, 
strain, stir into cream until it begins to thicken ; pour over cake. Cream 
should always be whipped while bowl rests in ice. Quantity 10 sher- 
bet cups. 

Miss JENNIE S. POTTS 

CARAMEL CREAM 

4 eggs 4 pieces lump sugar 

4 tablespoons granulated sugar 1 cup cream 

l /2 small cup milk 

Cream eggs with granulated sugar. Place lump sugar in saucepan 
with about 1 tablespoon of water and let it boil until quite brown. 
Slightly burned is preferable to not being sufficiently browned. Add 
cream and milk. Stir until it boils. To this add the creamed yolks and 
sugar, stirring constantly until the mass thickens and puffs up once. 
Remove from stove and continue stirring a few minutes longer. When 
cool add beaten whites, folding them in slowly. Serve very cold in glasses. 
Quantity for 4 or 5 persons. MRS. ARTHUR FALKENAU 



158 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 pound lady fingers % cup powdered sugar 

1 quart rich, sweet cream 2 teaspoons vanilla, or other extract 

Split and trim the cakes, and fit neatly in the bottom and sides of 
2 quart moulds. Whip the cream to a stiff froth in a syllabub churn; 
when you have sweetened and flavored it, fill the moulds, lay cakes closely 
together on top and set upon the ice until needed. 

MRS. JOHN H. JOPSON 

SPANISH CREAM 

1 quart milk 4 eggs 

1/2 box gelatin 2 cups sugar 

V 2 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Dissolve the gelatin in the milk; place in a double boiler and bring 
to the boiling point. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, and put in 
the ice chest until needed. Beat the yolks until light, adding the sugar 
gradually; pour this very slowly into the boiling milk, stirring constantly. 
Cook for 10 minutes, or until creamy, stirring as before. Remove from 
the fire, and fold in the whites of the eggs. Add the vanilla. Turn into 
a quart mould. When set, serve with cream. 

MRS. SARAH WALKER DUNCAN 

SPANISH CREAM 

Vz box gelatin 4 eggs (yolks and whites beaten 

1 quart milk separately) 

l l /2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put the gelatin in the milk until dissolved. Beat yolks of eggs and 
1 cup of sugar together. Stir into the milk and let come just to a boil. 
Beat whites of eggs with >2 cup of sugar to a stiff froth. Stir in quickly. 
Take off fire and put in moulds. Served with cream. 

Miss MARY S. PARRY 

VELVET CREAM 

% box gelatin 1 quart cream 

1 coffee cup wine Sugar to taste 

Warm gelatin and dissolve in wine, then strain quickly into cream. 
Sweeten to taste. Put into a mould. MRS. RICHARD PETERS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 159 

ITALIAN CREAM 

1 ounce gelatin Vz teacup boiling water 

1 teacup sherry wine 1 teacup (scant) sugar 

1 pint cream 

Soak gelatin all night in sherry wine. In morning, pour into a large 
bowl and melt with about > teacup of boiling water, then add sugar 
and cream. When cool, beat thoroughly until stiff and frothy all through. 
Put in mould and on ice till served. MRS. SAMUEL P. WETHERILL 

QUEEN VICTORIA'S FAVORITE DESSERT 

1 small box gelatin 2 lemons (juice) 

Vfc pint cold water 2 small bananas (sliced) 

J /2 pint boiling water 2 oranges (juice and pulp) 

2 cups sugar 6 figs (cut fine) 

10 English walnuts (broken) 

Dissolve gelatin in cold water; add boiling water, sugar and juice 
of lemons; add bananas, oranges, figs and English walnuts broken in 
pieces. Serve with cream. MRS. EDMUND WEBSTER 

UNCOOKED QUICKLY MADE JELLY 

1 package gelatin Sugar to taste 

1 pint cold water 1 lemon 

1 pint boiling water 1 pint wine or orange juice 

Soak gelatin in cold water for 10 or 15 minutes; then add boiling 
water; stir until gelatin is dissolved, then sweeten, add juice and grated 
rind of lemon and wine or orange juice. MRS. SAMUEL P. WETHERILL 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE 

(Uncooked) 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon cold water 

1 cup sugar 2 squares chocolate 

% teaspoon gelatin Vanilla (bean preferable) 

Melt gelatin in a teaspoon of cold water; beat the yolks of eggs very 
light ; add sugar and beat again. Melt the chocolate, pour 5 tablespoons 
of boiling water over the dissolved gelatin. Mix all these ingredients 
together and flavor. Beat whites of eggs very light; add to other in- 
gredients, pour into frappe glasses and put in a- cold place. Serve with 
whipped cream. Miss HELEN LIPPINCOTT 



160 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE 

1 box Cox's gelatin 1 pint cream 

1 quart milk 1 pound white sugar 

1 cup (large) grated chocolate 

Boil gelatin in as little water as possible to dissolve. Put in a double 
boiler the milk, cream and white sugar. When boiling, stir in grated 
chocolate, mixed in a little cold milk; then stir in the gelatin and boil 
all together for 5 minutes, and pour into forms to congeal. Turn out and 
serve with cream. MRS. J. GIBSON MC!LVAIN 

CHOCOLATE WHIP 

3 eggs 1 tablespoon (heaping) grated un- 

1 tablespoon cornstarch sweetened chocolate 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon hot water 

1 pint milk 

Beat the yolks of eggs, cornstarch dissolved in a little water, and 
3 tablespoons of sugar until light. Dissolve chocolate, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar, and hot water. When dissolved, add milk heated to boiling point. 
Pour the hot mixture over the beaten eggs and sugar and cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until it thickens. When cool, flavor with 
vanilla and place on the ice. When ready to serve, half fill small punch 
glasses with the custard, and heap whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, 
over it. This custard can also be poured over stale cake and served. 

MRS. FREDERICK L. SEEGER 

LEMON BUTTER 

2 lemons % pound granulated sugar 

3 eggs Butter the size of an egg 

Grated rind of 1 and pulp of 2 lemons, carefully remove the 
seeds. Add sugar, butter. Beat all together in an agate bowl and allow 
it to boil slowly 10 to 15 minutes. Then beat eggs very light and add to 
the mixture. Boil up once, take off the fire and put in cool place. 

MRS. MARY T. NICHOLS 

AN ITALIAN DESSERT 

First boil 1 quart large chestnuts; shell and skin them; put through 
chopper; season with sugar and vanilla, or sherry. Serve in glasses, 
with whipped cream on top. MRS. HENRY C. MC!LVAINE 



Sees; 

You break the ice and do this feat. TAMING OF THE SHREW. 



ll (161) 



LEMON ICE 

Juice of 6 lemons (strained) 1 quart cold water 

3 cups sugar Whites of 4 eggs 

Freeze until very hard. This will be enough for 16 people. 

MRS. MATTHEW JAMES GRIER 



OLD-FASHIONED LEMON ICE CREAM 

Oil from the rind of 2 lemons 1 quart milk from top of bottles 

6 lumps loaf sugar Vz P m t cream 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon (heaping) flour 

Put the 2 lemons in boiling water. When the rind is thoroughly 
softened rub it with the loaf sugar to extract the oil. Dissolve loaf sugar 
in a little of the cream on the back of the stove; make a paste of the flour 
with a little of the same cream. In the meantime, have the rest of the 
cream and milk on the stove with the granulated sugar dissolving in it. 
Use double boiler. Stir in the paste, let boil 10 minutes, then stir in loaf 
sugar. Let cool, then freeze. 

Miss EMMA R. JACK 

LEMON SHERBET 

1 quart milk Juice of 3 lemons 

Rind of 1 lemon 3 eggs 

Scald together milk and rind of 1 lemon ; then put in freezer. When 
frozen, or when it begins to harden, add the juice of 3 lemons and the 
well-beaten whites of 3 eggs; then freeze until solid. 

MRS. EDWARD L. REYNOLDS 



ORANGE MOUSSE 

l*/2 pints cream Juice of 2 oranges 

Rind of 1 orange (grated) T /4 pound stale macaroons (grated) 

6 ounces sugar 

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, stir all the ingredients into it, and 
freeze as you do ice cream. 

MRS. CHARLES F. GODSHALL 

(163) 



164 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ORANGE MOUSSE 

1 quart cream 1 cup orange juice 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs (yolks) 

Whip cream to a stiff froth. Add sugar (which has been dissolved in 
a little water over the fire) to strained orange juice, then the well beaten 
yolks of eggs, and beat rapidly for about 3 minutes. Place in a freezer 
and allow same to remain about 3 hours after it has been frozen. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 



PINEAPPLE ICE 

1 can Hawaiian pineapple 1 cup boiling water 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tablespoon sherry wine 

White of 1 egg 

Dissolve sugar in the water, add fruit with its juice, and sherry. 
Then freeze, and just before packing, stir in the well-beaten white of egg. 

Apricot Ice can be made from this recipe, using a can of apricots in 
place of the pineapple. 

MRS. J. HOWARD GASKILL 



PEACH DELIGHT 

On a mound of peach ice cream place half a fresh peach, the cut 
surface being sprinkled with powdered sugar and the hollow filled with 
Strawberry or Raspberry Ice. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 

FROZEN CUSTARD 

1 quart cream l /2 pound sugar 

6 yolks of eggs Flavor to taste 

Put the cream on to boil in a farina boiler. Beat yolks and sugar 
together until light; then stir into the boiling cream. Stir continually 
until it thickens, and then stand aside to cool. Add the flavoring. 
When cold, freeze. This quantity will serve 8 persons. 

MRS. WILBUR F. LITCH 



BOOK OF RECIPES 165 

APPLE FRAPPE 

A rich, smooth apple sauce, sweetened and flavored with lemon juice. 
Freeze and serve with a sauce of cream flavored with vanilla. 

Miss CLARA COMEGYS 

MAPLE FRAPPE 

1 cup maple syrup 4 eggs 

1 pint whipping cream 

Heat syrup in double boiler. Add yolks of eggs to syrup and cook 
3 minutes. When cool, add well-beaten whites and the pint of cream, 
beaten stiff. Pack in freezer and let stand 2 hours. 

MRS. THOMAS RAEBURN WHITE 

FROZEN MARSHMALLOW CREAM 



\ l /z pints whipped cream iVfe dozen marshmallows 

Sherry wine to taste l l /z pounds candied cherries 

l l /2 dozen walnut meats 

Sweeten and flavor the whipped cream with sherry wine; cut or pull 
the marshmallows in pieces; cut the candied cherries in pieces; break 
up the walnuts. Mix all into cream and put in mould. Pack in ice 2 to 
3 hours. Serve in glasses. Very good quick dessert. 

MRS. ALEXANDER PATTON 



Jfruitg 



// may well be called Jove's tree when it drops forth such fruit. As You LIKE IT. 



(167) 



RHUBARB PRESERVE 

6 pounds rhubarb 1/2 pound blanched almonds 

7 pounds sugar 1/2 dozen lemons 

Boil rhubarb until tender, then add sugar and nuts (chopped), and 
boil 2 minutes longer about 40 minutes in all though boil until satis- 
factory consistency. Some rhubarb requires a little water to start it. 
The lemons should be sliced and added when rhubarb is first put on. 

MRS. C. L. HUTCHINSON 



TO PRESERVE PINEAPPLE WITHOUT COOKING 

Prepare pineapple as for preserving pound for pound. Put in a 
cool, dark place for 3 days. Stir well twice a day with a wooden spoon. 
Then put in jars. It will be perfectly clear and taste like fresh fruit, and 
keep indefinitely. 

Raspberries may be prepared the same way, but are not as rich as 
the cooked kind, but are delicious when strained and used for flavoring 
such as Bavarian Cream, etc. 

MRS. A. W. ROBINSON 

SUN-PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

To every pound of fruit allow three-quarters pound of sugar. Place 
over the fire in a preserving kettle and bring to a boil. When cooked about 
3 minutes turn out on large flat platters and expose to the full rays of the 
sun most of the day, occasionally stirring that all may be equally sun 
cooked. Repeat this the second day, when the juice will usually be suf- 
ficiently thick to put them away in airtight jars. By this method the 
berries are full and firm and the juice rich. 

MRS. MORGAN BUNTING 

CHERRIES (PRESERVED UNCOOKED) 

Stone firm cherries and cover 24 hours with vinegar. Then drain 
off vinegar; weigh the fruit. Take 1 pound sugar to every pound of 
fruit, and let stand in a cool place for 9 days, stirring well daily. Put 
in air-tight jars. Same vinegar can be used twice. 

Miss ANNA L. COALE 

(169) 



170 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

GRAPE CONSERVE 

5 pounds grapes 1 cup nuts 

3 pounds sugar 1 cup raisins 

3 oranges 

Pulp the grapes, cook the skins and pulps separately, press pulp 
through a sieve and put both together and cook 5 or 10 minutes; then 
add the sugar next, the grated rind of 1 orange and the juice of 3, the 
chopped nuts and raisins. Cook 5 minutes, put in jars and seal. 

MRS. LAURA CHANDLER BOOTH, 
President, The New Century Club of Kennett Square, Pa. 

SPICED GRAPE 

5 pounds Concord grapes V 2 teaspoon cloves 

3 pounds sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon and allspice 

Vinegar to taste 

Pulp the grapes, boil the skins until tender. Cook the pulp and 
strain through a sieve to remove the seeds. Add the pulp to the skins, 
put in the sugar and spices, and vinegar to taste and boil thoroughly. 
Cool and put in tumblers. MRS. T. WILLIAM KIMBER 

KIMBALLED CHERRIES 

Take sour cherries, stone and put in a crock, cover with vinegar 
and let them stand 24 hours. Pour off the vinegar and add sugar, pound 
for pound; stir thoroughly every day until sugar is entirely dissolved. It 
sometimes takes 10 days before the sugar is dissolved. The cherries are 
then ready for use, and keep without sealing. 

MRS. WILLIAM SIMPSON, JR. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

5 pounds blue plums 2 pounds raisins 

4 pounds sugar 1 pound English walnuts 

5 oranges 

Slice oranges thin, rind and all. Not whole slices. Put all ingre- 
dients, except the nuts, in preserving kettle; and allow to simmer, not 
boil hard, for about ^ of an hour, or until the orange rind is tender. 
Just before taking from fire, break the walnuts in quarters and stir in 
with the mixture. Put in air-tight glass jars. 

MRS. WILLIAM SIMPSON, JR. 



BOOK OF RECIPES 171 

PERSIAN PLUM 

(Mrs. M. B. Torr's recipe) 

2 small baskets blue plums 2 oranges 

1 pound seedless raisins 1 pound walnut meats 

Remove seeds from oranges and plums, but do not peel. Grind all 
fruit in meat grinder, and add ^ pound of sugar to 1 pound of mixture. 
Cook 20 minutes and before taking from fire, add broken walnut meats. 
Put in jelly glasses. 

Miss ANNE HEYGATE-HALL 



SPICED PEACHES 

7 pounds fruit 1 pint vinegar 

3 pounds sugar 1/2 ounce whole cloves 

2 ounces stick cinnamon 

Tie up the spices in little bags, 3 or 4. Boil sugar, spices and vinegar 
together. Pour over the fruit and let stand over night. In the morning 
put the syrup on to boil. When boiling hot, put in the fruit and cook 
until tender. Take out the fruit, boil the syrup down until just enough 
to cover the fruit. Put in jars for keeping. 

MRS. CHARLES H. GUILBERT 



SPICED WATERMELON RIND 

7 pounds watermelon rind 1 teaspoon alum 

3 pounds granulated sugar Ginger root 

1 pint vinegar Cinnamon stick 

1/2 cup salt Whole cloves 

Select a watermelon with a very thick rind, the long, narrow melons 
often have the thickest. Cut the rind into pieces about 4 or 5 inches 
square; if too small they will not be juicy when preserved. Cut away 
the pink inner part, and pare off the outer green skin. Cover with cold 
water, adding salt, let stand over night, then drain and weigh, parboil 
in alum and ginger water until tender (1 teaspoon of alum and two or 
three pieces of scraped ginger root). Add a few more pieces ginger root, 
also cinnamon stick and a few whole cloves. Add rind drained from 
ginger water, and cook in syrup until rind is clear. 

MRS. E. B. WAPLES 



172 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

PEAR CHIPS 

8 pounds pears (hard big white ones) 2 ounces green ginger 

8 pounds sugar 6 lemons 

1 glass cold water 

Cut pears into small thin slices. Pare the ginger and cut into small 
pieces. Cut the lemons very fine, and put in the rinds of 2. Boil until 
clear and put into glasses. 

This recipe I have used for many years, and is always liked by every 
one, and yet has never been in any cook book that I know of. 

MRS. SAMUEL SCOVILLE, JR. 

CHIPPED PEARS 

8 pounds pears (under ripe) J /2 pound candied ginger root 

8 pounds granulated sugar 4 lemons 



Pare and cut the pears into tiny pieces (X inch). Slice the ginger, 
and let pears, sugar and ginger boil together slowly 1 hour. Then slice 
in the lemons (which have been boiled whole in clear water before slicing) 
and boil another hour. Put in tumblers. 

A box of Canton ginger to about 12 pounds of pears. 

MRS. T. WILLIAM KIMBER 

GINGER PEARS 

(As used in the family of General Putnam) 

1 peck cooking pears 2 pints water 

6 pounds granulated sugar 4 ounces fresh ginger root 

Pare and cut into eighths the cooking pears. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and water. Add the pears, and ginger root cut up into very small 
pieces. Cook slowly about 4 hours. MRS. LEWIS M. JOHNSON 

SPICED WATERMELON RIND 

8 pounds watermelon rind 4 pounds granulated sugar 

1 quart white wine vinegar 1 ounce whole cloves 

l /2 ounce stick cinnamon 

Cover rind with cold water, boil until slightly tender. Take out 
and drain. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices together, pour over rind. 
Second day, boil liquor again, pour over rind. Third day, boil rind and 
liquor together about 15 minutes. Put in sealed jars. 

MRS. ALLEN R. MITCHELL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 173 

BRANDIED PEACHES 

Use clingstone peaches. Remove the skin by dropping for a few 
minutes into strong lye, then rubbing with a coarse towel. Throw into 
clean, cold water and remove the remaining blemishes with a sharp knife. 
Make a syrup, allowing ^ pound of sugar and ]/2 cup of water to each 
pound of fruit. When the syrup boils, remove the scum and put in the 
peaches, a few at a time. Boil until quite tender, then remove and place 
on large dishes to cool. Fill jars a little more than half full of peaches, 
and cover with the syrup in proportion of 1 quart of syrup to 1 quart 
of brandy well mixed, the syrup to be cold before mixing. 

MRS. JOSEPHINE L. ADAMS 



As dear as yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere. MERCHANT OF VENICE. 



(175) 



CURRANT JELLY 

Take fresh ripe currants, not soft, and if possible, not gathered after 
rainy weather. They are best early in July. Wash clean, and pick out 
all leaves and imperfect fruit. Put into a preserving kettle, mash just 
enough to make a little juice in the bottom of the kettle. Cover the 
kettle and put on a slow fire till all the skins are broken and the fruit is 
soft enough to strain. Strain through a bag hung out of a draft, in a 
moderately warm place. Measure the juice, and to every pint of juice 
weigh out a pound of granulated sugar. Put the juice into a clean uncov- 
ered kettle, and after it comes to the boiling point, if the quantity is large 
let it boil hard 20 minutes. When the juice is put on to boil, put the 
sugar in a clean roasting pan (it is nicer to line it with white paper) and 
put it in the oven. When the juice has boiled 20 minutes and the sugar 
is very hot, pour the sugar into the boiling juice. It will hiss and instantly 
dissolve. Let the mixture boil up without stirring, and then try a little 
on a saucer. If it wrinkles as you push it together the jelly is done. 
Remove from the fire immediately. Have the glasses very clean and 
sitting on a tray covered with a warm wet cloth. Put the jelly into the 
glasses with a pointed ladle and set aside to cool. When cold cover with 
paraffine, and then the metal tops. 

Perfect jelly should be clear, smooth and just firm enough to quiver 
but not fall when turned out of the tumbler. 

If this recipe is exactly followed, it cannot fail. I have made it year 
after year, and it has never failed. 

Gooseberries can be used by the same recipe, and make a delicious 
jelly to serve with cream cheese and salad. 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 

CALF'S FOOT JELLY 

1 set feet 1 pound sugar 

4 eggs (whites) 1 pint Lisbon wine 

1/2 pint hot water 3 lemons 

Boil a set of feet in water and let cool; add the whites of eggs, hot 
water, sugar, wine, juice of 3 lemons, and half of the rind grated fine. Run 
the jelly in a flannel bag before the fire a good plan is to hang the bag 
between two chairs and let it drip into the mould. 

MRS. GEORGE F. KLEMM 

12 (177) 



178 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

1 quart cranberries 1 pound sugar 

1 pint water 1 pint boiling water 

Put on the cranberries with the water, cook until soft, then pass 
through a strainer with the boiling water. Add the sugar and boil 20 
minutes. This always jells. Miss G. B. MC!LHENNY 

C. O. R. R. JELLY 

1 quart currant juice 1 pound raisins (stoned) 

1 quart red raspberry juice 2 oranges 

5 pounds sugar 

Cook together ^ of an hour. Cut rind of orange in small pieces, 
use whole of orange. It takes about 4^ quarts of red raspberries, or 4 
quarts of currants for a quart of juice. MRS. JAMES MAPES DODGE 

MINT JELLY 

1 quart apple juice 4 teaspoons vinegar 

1 pound granulated sugar 1 teaspoon essence of spearmint 

Boil apple juice and sugar as for any jelly, and just before taking 
from the fire add vinegar and spearmint, and color to liking with 
Standard Color Paste "Leaf Green." Use Blush apples or those 
which will make light-colored jelly. MRS. J. HOWARD GASKILL 

SPICED CRABAPPLE JELLY 

1 peck crabapples 1 cup mixed whole spices (cloves, cin- 

5 cups vinegar namon, allspice, tied in bag) 

Sugar Water to nearly cover 

Stew until soft, strain, boil up and add equal amount of sugar, then 
boil until it jellies. Delicious served with meat. 

MRS. FRANK H. BURPEE 

GRAPE JAM 

Wash bunches of grapes. Pulp them, cook skins until soft; cook 
pulp separately until soft enough to press from seeds through the colander. 
Put skins and pulp together; to every cupful add _^ cup of sugar and 
cook slowly for 3/2 hour. It depends on your taste how you like it, jellied 
or more so, when to remove from the stove. 

MRS. C. L. HUTCHINSON 



BOOK OF RECIPES 179 

HEAVENLY JAM 

6 pounds Concord grapes 1 pound seedless raisins 

5 pounds granulated sugar 4 large oranges 

1 cup chopped English walnuts 

Skin grapes and cook pulp 15 minutes. Put through sieve to remove 
seeds. Add skins to pulp ; add sugar, juice and chipped rind of oranges. 
Boil 20 minutes. Add nuts 5 minutes before removing from fire. This 
recipe is well named. 

MRS. SPENCER KENNARD MULFORD 

HEAVENLY JAM 

2*/2 quarts pie cherries (pitted) 1V2 pounds raisins (seeded) 

5 pounds white sugar 4 oranges (rind and juice) 

Boil 40 minutes. 

MRS. HENRY P. COSTILL 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

4 large oranges 1 lemon 

1 grapefruit 

Slice on slaw cutter, skins and all, removing seeds; weigh and add 
three pints of water, to every pound of pulp; let stand over night; then 
boll until the skin is clear (about % hour) , and let stand over night again. 
Then weigh and add 1 pound of sugar to 1 pound of pulp, boil down to 
required thickness. 

MRS. HENRY C. MC!LVAINE 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Cut in halves 12 large Seville oranges; remove seeds and put in a 
basin, covering with 1 pint of boiling water. Let stand over night. 
Squeeze the orange juice in a basin with as much of the pith as will come 
away. (The pith is all used as well as the peel.) To every pound of fruit 
allow 3 pints of cold water and stand over night. The next day add the 
strained water from the pips and boil down until the peel is soft like 
marmalade. Now weigh the fruit again and to every pound of fruit 
add 1 pound of loaf sugar (granulated sugar will do) ; boil again 40 min- 
utes, pour into jars or glasses and tie down. 

MRS. H. J. KALTENTHALER 



180 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

2 oranges 2 lemons 

2 grapefruits 

Cut very thin, using all save seeds and hard centers. Add twice as 
much water as you have fruit by measurement. Stand 24 hours. Second 
day boil 10 minutes and again stand 24 hours. Third day add 1 pint of 
sugar to every pint of fruit. Boil 1^ hours, or until done. 

MRS. LEWIS M. JOHNSON 



ORANGE MARMALADE 
6 oranges 4 lemons 

Slice as thin as possible, leaving out nothing but seeds. Weigh and 
add 3 pounds of water to 1 pound of fruit. Let stand 24 hours. Boil 
until rinds are tender. Let stand another 24 hours. Add sugar pound 
to pound. Boil until it jellies. Each boiling will take Y^ to ^ hour. 
This quantity makes about 15 pints. 

Miss ANNIE HEACOCK 



GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 

1 large grapefruit 1 large orange 

1 large lemon 

Cut in sections and run through the grinder, using all but the seeds. 
Cover with 12 cups of water, 14 cups of sugar. Let stand 24 hours. Boil 
until the proper consistency. 

MRS. ABNER H. MERSHON 



MARMALADE 

1 orange 1 grapefruit 

1 lemon 

Shred the fruit. Add three times as much water as fruit. Let stand 
over night. In the morning cook 10 minutes. Let stand until next 
morning. Measure and add as much sugar as you have fruit and water. 
Cook 2 hours after it begins to boil. Put in glass jars or tumblers. 

MRS. JAMES A. DEVELIN 



BOOK OF RECIPES 181 

AMBER MARMALADE 

1 grapefruit 1 orange 

1 lemon 

Cut grapefruit, orange and lemon in small sections; remove seeds 
and tough parts ; then put in meat grinder ; grind, saving all juice. Meas- 
ure the fruit in a cup, and add to it three times the quantity of water. 
Now measure it again, and add cup for cup of sugar. Put it over fire 
and boil steadily about 2 hours, until it jellies. This quantity always 
makes 12 jelly glasses, and sometimes more. The product should have 
a limpid appearance, quite different from the mushy look of some marma- 
lades. Stir as little as possible during the 2 hours or more of cooking. 

MRS. C. L. HUTCHINSON 

RHUBARB MARMALADE 

3 pounds rhubarb l /z pound English walnut meats 

2 pounds granulated sugar (chopped fine) 

Juice of 2 lemons 

Skin stalks and cut in small pieces. Cook X hour or longer. 

Miss SARAH C. SOWER 

APRICOT MARMALADE 

3 pounds dried apricots 3 quarts cold water 

7 pounds granulated sugar 

Wash fruit very thoroughly, cut in small pieces and let soak in the 
water 48 hours. Put on fire and cook 15 minutes. Add sugar and boil 
y hour. 

MRS. WALTER C. MC!NTIRE 

PLUM COMPOTE 

6 pounds plums 2 pounds seeded raisins 

6 pounds sugar 1 pound English walnut meats (chopped 

6 oranges fine) 

Stone the plums; add sugar, juice of oranges, the rind (which should 
be peeled off very thin and cut in small bits, or ground), seeded raisins 
and walnut meats. Cook as you would marmalade, and put away in 
jars or glasses. 

MRS. W. DUFFIELD ROBINSON 



182 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DELICIOUS CONSERVE 

4 quarts large blue plums 1 pound seeded raisins 

Brown sugar 1 pound figs (cut into dice) 

1/2 pound nuts (chopped) 

Cut plums in half, cook slowly until tender. Add equal parts of 
brown sugar and cook until of desired consistency. Just before reaching 
this stage add raisins, figs and nuts. 

MRS. H. J. KALTENTHALER 



Cafee 

The making of the cake, the heating of the oven and the baking. TROILUS AND CRESSIDA. 



(183) 



A general rule for making cake is first to measure accurately. Mix 
in bowl (not tin) and use a wooden spoon. Beat yolks and whites of eggs 
separately unless otherwise directed in the recipe. Cream the butter 
before adding sugar, beat them together very light before adding eggs. 
The oven must be ready as soon as cake is mixed. Do not jar it by 
opening oven door. Be sure it is done, then turn out on a sieve and leave 
till cold. (ED.) 



ORANGE CAKE 



2 cups sugar 

l /2 cup butter (cream together) 
4 eggs (yolks to be used first) 
1 cup milk 



2 l / 2 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder (beaten in 

the stiff whites of the eggs) 
1 orange (grated rind and juice) 



Bake in layer Dans in moderate oven. 

ICING 

2*/2 cups confectioner's sugar 4 tablespoons cream or milk 

1 orange (grated rind and juice) 

MRS. ROBERT BEATTIE 



1 dozen eggs 
1 pound flour 
1 pound butter 

1 pound sugar 

2 pounds raisins 



FRUIT CAKE 

v 

1 teacup molasses 

1 nutmeg 

1 wineglass brandy 

1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in boiling 

water) 
1 pound citron 

Flour the fruit and mix all together except the citron. Put in the 
pan in layers, first a layer of batter, then one of citron, sliced very thin; 
the last layer must be of batter. Bake 5 hours in slow oven. Half 
quantity takes 3 hours to bake, or they can be baked at a baker's shop 
very perfectly at slight cost. 

This has been tried and proved, being an old family recipe not to be 
found in any cook book that I have ever seen. 

MRS. FRED W. TAYLOR 

(185) 



186 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

FRUIT CAKE 

1/2 pound butter Vi pound candied or preserved apricots 

Vz pound pulverized sugar Vi pound candied or preserved pineapple 

8 eggs l /z pound candied orange and lemon 

Vz pound sifted flour peel 

% pound raisins 1 nutmeg (grated) 

% pound Sultana V ounce mace 

Vi pound citron V4 ounce cinnamon 

l /4 pound candied or preserved cherries 1/2 ounce cloves 

% pound candied or preserved gages 1/2 gill Jamaica rum 

brandy 



Stem and seed the raisins, pick over sultanas, shred the orange and 
lemon peel and citron very fine, cut remaining fruit into tiny dice, beat 
the butter to a cream, add sugar gradually and give a thorough beating. 
Beat eggs (without separating) until creamy, add them to butter and 
sugar, then gradually add the flour; beat well. Mix all the fruit together 
and flour it well, add the spices to the batter, add the fruit, mix thoroughly, 
add the rum and brandy, mix again. Line around straight-sided cake pan 
with buttered paper, turn in the mixture; bake in a very slow oven 4^ 
hours; when done take from pan and let stand over night to cool; next 
day mix 1 pint champagne, $4 pint best brandy, 1 gill strawberry syrup 
together, stand cake in a stone butter pot and pour over it the brandy 
mixture, paste top of pot over with paper, put on cover, stand in cool 
place one month; at the end of that time remove paper, turn the cake, 
paste top over again with paper, put lid on and let stand another month 
and it is ready for use. 

This makes a 7-pound cake and is excellent. 

MRS. C. SHILLARD-SMITH 

FRUIT CAKE 

1 pound butter 1 glass apple jelly 

1 pound sugar 2 pounds seeded raisins 

10 eggs 2 pounds currants 

1 quart sifted flour 1 pound chopped dates 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 pound candied shredded citron peel 

1 tablespoon mixed spices 

Cream butter with sugar; add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, sifted 
flour, baking powder, apple jelly, raisins, currants, chopped dates, candied 
shredded citron peel, mixed spices, and the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Turn into a buttered and papered cake tin and bake slowly for 4 hours. 

MRS. SARAH WALKER DUNCAN 



BOOK OF RECIPES 187 

FRUIT CAKE 

1 pound butter 1/2 pound citron (cut in very thin strips) 

1 pound sugar y 4 pound candied orange peel 

12 eggs (beaten separately) V4 pound candied lemon peel 

1 cup molasses 2 lemons (grated rind) 

1 pound sifted flour y z teaspoon ground cloves 

1 cup sherry wine 3 grated nutmegs 

J /2 cup brandy 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

2 pounds soft figs 2 lemons (juice) 

3 pounds stoned raisins 1 orange (juice) 
2 pounds currants V4 teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon (small) ground mace 

Rub butter and sugar together, stir in well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
then add flour, stirring well, then well-beaten whites of eggs; now add 
molasses, sherry, brandy, lemon juice, spices, and soda dissolved in a 
little water. Now add the raisins and currants, grated rind of lemon, 
and candied peel, cut fine. Line 2 two-quart pans with greased writing 
paper. First pour a layer of batter into the pan, then place a layer of 
soft whole figs (if hard, soak in the wine two or three days), then another 
layer of the batter, then a layer of citron, then more batter, another layer 
of figs and another of batter. This should be baked in a moderate oven 
for 4 hours. 

A recipe I have frequently used and found excellent. 

COUNTESS OF SANTA EULALIA 

MRS. S. RHINE'S FRUIT CAKE 

4 pounds raisins (seeded) l /z pint New Orleans molasses 
2 pounds Sultana raisins 2 gills brandy 

2 pounds currants 2 gills rose water 

l a /2 pounds citron 15 eggs 

2 pounds light-brown sugar 1 teaspoon ground mace 

l l /2 pounds butter 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 

2 pounds flour 2 teaspoons ground allspice 

2 teaspoons ground cloves 

Wash and dry the fruit, cut citron very thin and small. Mix sugar, 
butter and yolks of eggs well, then add fruit and half the flour. Add the 
liquids, the rest of the flour and spices; last the whites of eggs, beaten 
light. Line 3 pans with well-greased paper (using lard to grease the 
paper). Bake in a slow oven about 4 hours; turn occasionally. Cover 
with paper if they get too dark on top. 

MRS. THOMAS SHALCROSS 



188 



NEW CENTURY CLUB 



FRUIT CAKE 



1 pound butter 
1 pound brown sugar 
1 pound flour 
10 eggs 

1 pound citron 

2 pounds currants 

3 pounds raisins 

1/4 pound orange peel 



1/4 pound lemon peel 

1 pound preserved cherries 

1 nutmeg (grated) 

1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 

1/2 tablespoon ground mace 

1/2 tablespoon ground cloves 

1 wineglass Madeira wine 

1 wineglass brandy 



Steep the spices in the brandy over night. Cream the butter and 
sugar. Add the yolks of eggs and beat well. Add the spices, the fruit, 
whites of eggs (well beaten) and then the flour. Bake in a steady oven 
4 hours. 

MRS. ABNER H. MERSHON 



MY FRUIT CAKE 



1 pound butter 

1 pound sugar 

12 eggs 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon nutmeg 

1 tablespoon allspice 

1 tablespoon (scant) cloves 

1 tablespoon (scant) mace 



pounds citron 
l l /2 pounds raisins 
iVk pounds currants 

1 pound flour 

4 ounces blanched almonds (grated) 
4 wineglasses orange juice 

2 gills brandy 

1/2 tumbler molasses 
1 teaspoon soda 



Beat butter well with the sugar. Add gradually the eggs, well beaten 
separately, then mix in the spices and the fruit. Use part of flour to 
sprinkle on the fruit. Flour well or it will settle at the bottom. 

MRS. H. L. WAYLAND 



FRUIT CAKE 



13 eggs 

11/2 pounds sugar 

li/4 pounds flour (browned) 

11/4 pounds butter 

31/4 pounds raisins 

21/2 pounds currants 



3 /4 pound citron 

1/4 pint brandy 

Cloves 

Cinnamon 

Mace 

Nutmeg 

MRS. LIVINGSTON E. JONES 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



189 



AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR REAL FRUIT CAKE 



2 cups soft white sugar 

2 to 3 cups butter and lard mixed 
4 cups flour 

3 cups buttermilk 

1 pound seeded raisins 



1 pound currants 

l /4 nutmeg 

1 teaspoon ground cloves 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon (scant) baking powder 



Pinch of salt 

If desired, a wineglass of brandy, rum or anything of this character 
may be added to keep the cake moist. 

MRS. JAMES B. THOMAS 



FRUIT COOKIES 



1 cup molasses 

1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup nut meats 

1/2 CU P sour cream or cold coffee 

3 cups flour (more may be necessary) 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs or 4 yolks 



1 cup raisins 

1 cup currants 

1 cup dates 

1/4 pound citron (cut fine) 

1/4 pound lemon peel (cut fine) 

V pound orange peel (cut fine) 

Spices 



Make the mixture so stiff that when you drop it by spoonfuls on pan 
it will stand up in little rough balls. Place them so that they may spread 
in baking without running together. Bake in moderate oven 10 or 15 
minutes. 

We always make these at Thanksgiving and Christmas. 

MRS. GRACE S. WILLIAMS, 
President, Bristol Travel Club, Bristol, Pa. 



4 eggs 



SPONGE CAKE 

1/2 weight in flour 
Full weight in sugar 



Beat whites light and put in sugar; beat very light; then beat yolks 
light and put them in; then 2 tablespoons of hot water and flavoring; 
beat well, then stir in flour very lightly and bake in moderate oven about 
30 minutes. The secret of this cake is the very vigorous beating before 
the flour is added, and then simply folding in the flour very lightly without 
any beating, and baking immediately. 

MRS. BENJAMIN F. RICHARDSON 



190 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs (weigh in shells) The full weight in sugar 
V weight in flour Rind and juice of lemon 

Beat eggs separately, then mix eggs together. Cover sugar with 
water and boil 5 minutes. Pour sugar slowly in the eggs and beat until 
cold. Add lemon; fold flour in gently. A larger cake can be made in 
same manner by using any number of eggs. 

MRS. WILLIAM S. PILLING 

SPONGE CAKES 

5 eggs 1 lemon (juice) 

1 cup and 1 tablespoon sugar Vfc teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup, less 1 tablespoon flour A pinch of salt 

Separate the eggs, adding half the sugar to the yolks and the other 
half to the whites, beating until very light. Mix together, adding the 
flour, lemon juice, baking powder and salt. Bake in small patty pans. 

MRS. GEORGE S. MATLACK 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

3 eggs 4 tablespoons water 

1 cup sugar 1 large cup flour 

2 large teaspoons yeast powder 

Mix yolks, sugar, water together; add whites and flour with yeast 
powder in the flour. Bake in layers. 

CREAM FOR CAKE 

1 egg l /2 cup cream, or milk 
l /2 CU P sugar 1 teaspoon of flavor 

Mix well, boil until it thickens. Cool cream before using. 

MRS. CHARLES H. WOOLLEY 

NEVER-FAILING SPONGE CAKE 

5 eggs Vz cup boiling water 

2 cups sugar Vfe teaspoon cream of tartar 
2 cups flour l /2 lemon (juice) 

Beat yolks first. Add cream of tartar to the well beaten whites and 
fold in lemon juice in the cake batter. 

MRS. CHARLES REYNOLDS SIMONS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 191 

SPONGE CAKE 

6 eggs Full weight in sugar 

y z weight in flour 1 lemon 

Mix the well-beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, then lemon juice and rind 
(grated), then stiffly beaten whites of eggs, cutting in flour last of all, 
with wooden ladle. Do not stir or beat the sponge, but cut it across and 
back until flour is absorbed. This makes a delicious sticky cake and not 
a dry choky one. Bake in turk's-head pan in ordinarily hot oven. 

MRS. HENRY T. DECHERT 



"IDLEWHD" CELEBRATED SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs Full weight of eggs in sugar 

l /2 weight of eggs in flour 1 lemon 

Beat whites thoroughly; add yolks, one at a time (do not beat them 
first); continue beating; add sugar gradually, beating all the time; juice 
and rind of lemon; small quantity of cold water (1 teaspoon of water 
to each yolk) ; lastly, flour stirred in carefully. 

Miss MARY JANNEY 

SPONGE CAKE 

10 eggs l /2 pound flour (sifted) 

1 pound sugar 2 lemons 

Separate eggs, beating whites stiff; to this add sugar, then yolks of 
eggs that have been beaten light, then rind of 2 lemons and juice of one, 
and lastly the flour. This is enough for two cakes. 

Miss EDITH SELLERS BUNTING 

SPONGE CAKE 

10 eggs l /z pound flour 

1 pound granulated sugar 1 lemon (rind and juice) 

1 teaspoon vinegar 

Beat the whites of eggs very light, add the yolks one at a time, add 
gradually the sugar, lemon juice and vinegar, beating all the time. Then 
add very gently the flour, well sifted. Bake in a cool oven. If you like 
the crumbly crust, dust with pulverized sugar before baking. 

MRS. LEWIS F. SHOEMAKER 



192 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs Full weight of eggs in pulverized sugar 

l /2 weight of eggs in flour 1 lemon 

Sift flour three times. Sift sugar twice. Beat yolks and sugar 
together and add 2 tablespoons of hot water (not boiling); add lemon 
juice and grated rind; add flour. Beat whites stiff and add to the mix- 
ture. Bake in 2 layers, or in small cakes. 

FROSTING FOR LAYER SPONGE CAKE 

Whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff, and add as much pulverized sugar as 
they will take. Place a thin layer between the cakes and cover the cake 
on top and sides. Miss MAUDE G. HOPKINS 

SPONGE CAKE 

10 eggs 1/2 pound flour 

1 pound sugar 1 gill water 

2 lemons 

Pour the water on the sugar and heat until it commences to boil. 
Break eggs in a large bowl. Pour boiling sugar on eggs as you start beat- 
ing them. Beat this mixture for fully 20 minutes, until it is cool and very 
light. Now beat in the juice of 2 lemons and rind of 1 . Then stir in the 
flour slowly, sifting it very gradually. Bake in a very slow oven about 
45 minutes. If icing is not desired, dust pulverized sugar on the cakes 
as they are put into the oven to improve the crust. 

Miss SARAH SELLERS BUNTING 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 ounce chocolate 1/2 cup milk 

1/2 cup butter 1 % cups pastry flour 

11/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

4 eggs Vanilla to taste 

Dissolve the chocolate and add 5 tablespoons boiling water. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add the yolks of eggs; stir well, add a little of the 
milk. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, add to the butter, sugar 
and yolks, and beat until very light. Add the rest of the milk, the vanilla 
and chocolate. Fold in the flour, to which has been added the baking 
powder. Lastly, add the stiff whites of the eggs. Bake 45 minutes. 

MRS. ABNER H. MERSHON 



BOOK OF RECIPES 193 

SPONGE CAKE 

5 eggs 1/2 pound pulverized sugar 

l /4 pound flour l / 2 lemon 

Whites and yolks of eggs, beaten separately, then together. Add 
sugar; beat until sugar is dissolved. Sift in flour, stirring lightly; add 
juice of half a lemon. Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. JOHN GIBSON 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

l /4 pound butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Vk cup sugar 3 eggs 

3 cups (small) flour 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter, eggs and sugar to a cream. Then add milk and 
flour, and flavor. When well mixed add baking powder. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Vi cake Baker's chocolate 1 egg 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup milk 

Butter the size of a walnut 

Mix chocolate, vanilla, egg and milk together, put in double boiler, 
then add the butter. Let chocolate boil until it drops smooth from spoon. 

Miss ELIZABETH BUNTING COLLIER 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

Vz cup butter 3 eggs 

iy 2 cups sugar 2 l / 2 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup milk Vanilla 

2 cups flour Salt 

Mix butter, sugar, milk, flour, yolks of 3 eggs, white of 1 egg, baking 
powder, salt and vanilla. Sufficient for four layers. 

FILLING 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup granulated sugar Vfe cake Baker's chocolate 

1 teaspoon butter 1 egg (yolk) 

Let milk boil, then stir in the cornstarch dissolved in a little milk. 
When at the boiling point, add the beaten yolk of the egg. Dissolve choco- 
late in double boiler and add slowly. MRS. C. WILMER MIDDLETON 

13 



194 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 squares chocolate 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

Va cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 V 2 cups sugar 4 eggs 

cups flour '/2 CU P 



Dissolve the chocolate in 5 tablespoons of boiling water. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add beaten yolks of eggs, then the milk. 
Add chocolate and flour. Give the whole a vigorous beating. Add 
baking powder, then the vanilla. Finally, stir in lightly the whites well 
beaten. Bake in 3 layers. Frost with chocolate. 

MRS. WILLIAM S. PILLING 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

FIRST PART 

1 cup brown sugar 2 cups flour 

1/2 cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs (yolks) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Vz CU P cream or milk Pinch of salt 

Mix butter and eggs, add yolks, milk, chocolate mixture, flour, baking 
powder, vanilla, salt, whites of the eggs and bake. 

SECOND PART 

1 cup brown sugar Vi pound chocolate 

l /z cup cream or milk 

Boil until well mixed. Stand to cool, then spread on cake. 

Miss JENNIE S. POTTS 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 cup milk l /z pound butter 

6 eggs (beaten separately) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 pound pulverized sugar 1 pound flour (sifted twice) 

Mix yolks of eggs and sugar together; add butter, then milk, flour 
and baking powder; fold in whites of eggs last. Bake in 3 layers. 

ICING 

1 pound confectioner's sugar Vfe teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 squares melted chocolate Enough cream to make it thick enough 

to spread on cake 

MRS. SARAH WALKER DUNCAN 



BOOK OF RECIPES 195 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1/2 cup milk 4 eggs (beaten separately) 

1/2 cake Baker's chocolate 2V 2 cups flour 

2 l /2 C UP S sugar 2 teaspoons (heaping) baking powder 

1 cup (scant) butter 1 cup milk 

Melt l /2 cup of the sugar with the milk and chocolate. Beat very 
light the balance of sugar, butter, eggs, flour, baking powder and milk. 
Add melted chocolate last. Bake in 3 layers. 

ICING 

1 cup granulated sugar 3 tablespoons water 

2 eggs (whites) 

Boil sugar and water. Beat into whites of eggs. 

MRS. EDWARD H. BONSALL 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

1/2 cup butter 3 cups flour 

1 cup milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Bake in 3 or 4 layers. 

FROSTING AND FILLING 

Vi cake (full) Baker's chocolate 5 tablespoons milk 

1 cup pulverized sugar 

Scrape the chocolate and put it on the back of the range to melt. 
When melted stir in the milk and sugar, and let it boil 5 minutes, stirring 
constantly to keep from burning. Spread on top and between layers. 
It does not thicken with cold. 

MRS. MATTHEW JAMES GRIER 

CHOCOLATE BROWNIES 

2 eggs (well beaten) 1/2 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 2 squares melted chocolate 

1/2 cup melted butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup walnuts (cut fine) 

Bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes ; bake in a large sheet and 
cut while hot. MRS. CHARLES Z. TRYON 



196 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

GINGER CAKES 

2 cups brown sugar 1 dessertspoon soda 

1 cup baking molasses 1 dessertspoon cloves 

1 cup lard and butter 1 dessertspoon cinnamon 

1 cup milk 1 dessertspoon allspice 
31/2 cups flour y 2 teaspoon ginger 

2 eggs 2 nutmegs 

A pinch of salt 

Bake in patty pans as needed. The dough will keep a long while 
if kept in a cool place. MRS. GEORGE S. MATLACK 

GINGER BREAD 

3 cups flour 1 cup molasses 
l / 2 cup cream i/ 2 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon lard 1 teaspoon baking soda 

2 tablespoons butter 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon ginger 

Beat yolks of eggs with lard and butter. Dissolve soda in a little 
warm water and mix with molasses, which is added to eggs. Then the 
milk, and last, the white of eggs, which has been beaten stiff. Bake in a 
moderate oven about 45 minutes. 

Miss AGNES PRESTON, 
The New Century Club Lunch Room 

GOOD SOFT GINGER BREAD 

1 cup rich milk or cream 1 cup black molasses 

1/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

Make a thin batter. A good "pinch" of ginger, cinnamon, allspice 
and cloves must be sifted in the flour. 

Miss MARY JANNEY 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in hot water) 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup buttermilk Vi teaspoon allspice 

1 cup butter 1 tablespoon ginger 

2 eggs 3 l /z cups flour 

Miss ANNA S. ECKFELDT 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



197 



GINGER BREAD 



2 eggs 

1 cup molasses 
V 3 cup sugar 
% cup butter 
2 1/2 cups flour 



3 teaspoons ginger 
2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup boiling water 

Rub butter and sugar together. Add eggs (well beaten), molasses, 
spices and flour, and last the hot water. Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. J. NICHOLAS MITCHELL 

GINGER BREAD 



1 cup lard and butter (mixed and 

melted) 

2 eggs 

1 big cup sour milk 

l /2 cup molasses (Porto Rico molasses, 
if possible) 



Vz cup brown sugar mixed with 

molasses 

1 cup seeded raisins (chopped) 
l /z teaspoon ginger 
A little nutmeg 
Flour to make batter not too stiff 

MRS. MATTHEW JAMES GRIER 



MOTHER'S HARD GINGERBREADS 



l /2 pound butter 

iVz pounds flour 

1/2 pound brown sugar 

2 tablespoons (large) ginger 



1 teaspoon ground cloves 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 pint molasses 
1 teaspoon (small) soda 
1 tablespoon vinegar 

Rub butter into flour and brown sugar, rolled fine; add ginger, 
cloves and cinnamon. Stir in molasses and soda dissolved in a little 
vinegar (a tablespoonful is enough). Make into dough as for cookies, 
and roll in as little flour as possible when cutting out. 

MRS. EFFINGHAM PEROT 



GINGER BREAD 



2 eggs 

l /z CU P (small) brown sugar 

1 cup molasses 

Butter the size of an egg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 



1/2 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon (small) salt 

2 cups flour 

1 cup hot water 



1 teaspoon (even) baking soda 

After the first nine ingredients are mixed, add hot water, with bak- 
ing soda dissolved in it. Grease pan and bake. It makes 18 gems. 

MRS. E. BOYD WEITZEL 



198 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SOFT GINGER CAKES 

1 cup New Orleans molasses Small pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon ground ginger 

1 cup water Melted butter the size of an egg 

2 cups (scant) flour 

Stir the soda in the molasses, add the water, salt, ginger, butter and 
flour. Bake in a moderately hot oven in gem pans. 

MRS. JOHN L. APPLETON 

SPONGE GINGER BREAD 

2 cups molasses 1 cup melted butter 
2 teaspoons soda 1 cup sour milk 

1 dessertspoon ginger 1 teaspoon soda 

4 eggs Flour 

Sift soda and ginger in molasses. Stir to a cream, then add well 
beaten eggs, butter, sour milk in which is dissolved the soda. Mix all 
together, then add flour to the consistency of pound cake. 

MRS. JAMES MAPES DODGE 

GINGER POUND CAKE 

1 cup molasses 1 tablespoon ginger 

1 cup sour milk 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar A little salt 

1 cup butter and lard mixed 3 cups flour 

3 eggs 

MRS. LEWIS M. JOHNSON 

CHRISTMAS GINGER CAKES 

7 pounds flour l l /2 nutmegs (grated) 

2 l /z pounds lard 2 ounces ground cloves 

1/2 pound butter 1 pound brown sugar 

V4 pound ground ginger iVk quarts New Orleans molasses 

1 /4 pound cinnamon 1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 teaspoon salt 

Rub flour, sugar, spices, salt, lard and butter together, and add 
molasses, into which soda has been beaten. Knead well, roll out and bake. 
These are better after several weeks. 

MRS. MARY C. D. GEISLER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 199 

GINGER SNAPS 

1 teaspoon soda 1/2 cup butter 

1 cup New Orleans molasses l / 2 cup lard 

4 cups flour 

Dissolve soda in molasses and let it stand in a bowl of good size. 
Rub butter and lard into flour. Into this mix: 

1 cup brown sugar 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon l /2 teaspoon allspice 

1 teaspoon ginger V 2 teaspoon grated nutmeg 

When thoroughly mixed add the molasses and baking soda. Knead 
thoroughly into a solid mass and put in the refrigerator over night. Take 
a small piece of the dough, roll in powdered sugar, very thin, and cut 
with round cutter. Do not put too closely in the baking pan. Do not 
grease the pan. If properly rolled and baked they will keep for weeks and 
not become stale. 

This recipe has been used for thirty-six years in our family, and has 
never failed to please every one. 

MRS. KATE H. ROWLAND 



GINGER SNAPS 

2 cups molasses 1 cup water 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon (heaping) soda 

11/2 cups lard 1 tablespoon ginger 

Flour A little salt 

Heat molasses and lard very hot. Mix and make stiff dough. Let 
stand over night; roll out thin and bake in hot oven. Will keep 
indefinitely. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 



GINGER SNAPS, OR MOLASSES SNAPS 

1 quart New Orleans molasses l l /2 pints milk 

3 /4 pound butter 3 tablespoons ginger 

4 cups sugar 3 tablespoons baking soda 

Enough flour to mix, not too stiff 

Let dough stand 24 hours before rolling out and baking. 

MRS. C. L. HUTCHINSON 



200 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

2 l /2 cups rolled oats 3 even tablespoons butter 

21/2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup sugar 

1/2 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Then rub in eggs, one at a time, then the 
oats and salt, and vanilla, and last of all the baking powder. Drop a 
half teaspoonful to each cooky on buttered tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Remove from tin immediately when taken from oven. They take 
from 6 to 8 minutes to cook. Miss AGNES PRESTON, 

The New Century Club Lunch Room 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

2 3 /4 cups dry rolled oats 2 teaspoons melted butter 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 eggs 

Mix the dry ingredients together, then stir in the eggs and butter. 
Drop by dessertspoonfuls 1^ inches apart on a buttered sheet. 

This recipe has been used for many years and not found wanting. 

Miss ELIZABETH A. ATKINSON 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup sugar A pinch of salt 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs 21/2 cups rolled oats 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 tablespoon water (if too dry) 

Take out of pan while hot and soft. 

MRS. GEORGE McKsowN 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

2 eggs 3 cups dry oatmeal 

2 cups light brown sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

% cup melted butter or lard 2 cups flour, sifted with 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon soda and 

y% nutmeg 2 teaspoons cream tartar 

Do not roll. Either drop or mould into small cakes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, being careful not to over-bake. 
Used at Sleigh ton Farm, Darlington, Pa. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 201 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup (scant) sugar iy 2 cups oatmeal (uncooked) 

1 tablespoon butter 2 eggs 

1 1 /2 teaspoons vanilla 

Makes 12 cookies, medium size. MRS. EDWARD F. KINGSLEY 

NUT OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup butter 1/2 cup chopped nut meats 

1/4 cup lard 1 i/ 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar l / 2 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon soda 

5 tablespoons milk % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 3 /4 cups rolled oats 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

1/2 cup raisins 1/2 teaspoon allspice 

Cream butter and lard together, and add gradually, while beating 
constantly, sugar; then add egg, well beaten, milk, rolled oats, raisins 
(seeded and cut in pieces) and nut meats chopped. Mix and sift flour 
with remaining ingredients and add to first mixture. 

Drop from tip of spoon on a buttered sheet, 1 inch apart, and bake 
in a moderate oven 15 minutes. MRS. WILLIAM WALLACE 

OATMEAL MACAROONS 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon (level) butter 

2 eggs (well beaten) 1 teaspoon baking powder 
21/2 cups rolled oats Vi teaspoon salt 

Drop the size of a penny on greased pans. Bake in hot oven. 

MRS. FREDERICK L. SEEGER 

SCOTTISH FANCIES 

1 egg 1 cup rolled oats 

1/2 cup sugar V& teaspoon salt 

% tablespoon melted butter % teaspoon vanilla 

Beat egg until light, add gradually sugar and then stir in remaining 
ingredients. Drop mixture by teaspoonfuls on a thoroughly greased 
inverted dripping pan, 1 inch apart. Spread into circular shape with a 
case knife just dipped in cold water. Bake in a moderate oven until 
delicately browned. To give variety use ^ cup rolled oats and fill cup 
with shredded cocoanut. MRS. WILLIAM S. PILLING 



202 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

EGOLESS, BUTTERLESS, MILKLESS CAKE 

1 cup brown sugar 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Vz CUP ^d J / 2 teaspoon (scant) cloves 

l /4 teaspoon nutmeg 

Boil all together for 3 minutes, then add 

1 teaspoon soda 2 cups flour 

Boiling water l /z teaspoon baking powder 

Dissolve soda in a little boiling water. Add flour and baking pow- 
der (mixed in the last cup of flour). Bake in a slow oven. 

MRS. GEORGE F. KLEMM 

EGOLESS, BUTTERLESS, MILKLESS CAKE 

Put into a saucepan the following: 

1 cup brown sugar Vs CU P ^d 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups raisins l /z teaspoon cloves 

Pinch of salt 

Boil all together for 3 minutes. Let cool. Then add 1 teaspoon of 
soda, dissolved in hot water; 2 cups of flour in which % teaspoon of baking 
powder has been sifted. Bake in moderate oven. 

Miss ANNA S. ECKFELDT 

EGOLESS CAKE 

2 cups dark brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups sour milk V4 cup butter 

2 cups flour 2 cups seeded raisins 

1/2 nutmeg (grated) 1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 

l /4 teacup boiling water 

Put soda in just before putting in pan. Don't bake in very hot oven. 

MRS. MATTHEW JAMES GRIER 

WHITE CAKE 

2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 
1/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

3 eggs l l /2 teaspoons baking powder 

Flavor with vanilla or lemon. 

Miss MARY L. ROBERTS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 203 

AN EGOLESS SPICE CAKE 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 cup New Orleans molasses Vfc teaspoon cinnamon 

l /2 cup sour milk into which has been l /z cup raisins 

beaten 1 teaspoon baking soda dis- l /z cup currants 

solved in l /z cup of hot water 3 cups flour 

Bake 1 hour in slow oven. MRS. LEWIS R. DICK 

COOKIES WITHOUT EGGS 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 

1 14 cups sugar hot water 

% cup butter and lard Flour to make a soft dough 

1 teaspoon salt Flavor to taste 

Roll out and cut with cutter. Sprinkle sugar over the top and bake 
in quick oven. 

This recipe has been in the family over eighty years. 

MRS. CALEB S. MIDDLETON 

BOSTON WHITE CAKE 

1 1/2 cups sugar 2 cups (small) flour 

l /2 cup butter Vi teaspoon soda 

l /2 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar 

5 eggs (whites only) Vfc teaspoon vanilla 

Add eggs last, beaten till very light. This makes 1 loaf and is 
delicious. MRS. FRANK BATTLES 

WHITE CAKE 

4 eggs (whites only) 2 cups sugar 

1 cup milk (running over) 2*/2 cups flour 

l /2 CU P butter 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

If you want it extra nice, use 1 cup of cornstarch, instead of 1 cup 
of flour. 

If one prefers, bake this cake in layers, use any rilling. One good 
one as follows: 

1 pound figs (chopped fine) 1 cup sugar 

Vz CU P water 

Put on back of stove and mash with spoon until it forms a smooth 
paste. MRS. MATTHEW JAMES GRIER 



204 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MARBLE CAKE 

LIGHT PART 

1/2 cup butter (creamed) 1 cup flour 

y z cup sugar 2 eggs (whites) 

1/2 cup water (tepid) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

DARK PART 

4 eggs (yolks) 2 squares chocolate (dissolved in 4 
1 cup sugar tablespoons boiling water, stir until 
Vi cup butter smooth) 

l /4 cup water 1/2 cup flour 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

When putting in pan alternate one spoonful of light and one of dark 
part. 

Miss MARY L. ROBERTS 

SPICE COOKIES 

5 cups flour l /4 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup lard 2 tablespoons cinnamon 
iVk cups molasses 1 tablespoon ground ginger 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon ground cloves 
l /2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon allspice 

Put flour, salt, baking powder and lard in a bowl and stir thoroughly. 
Add sugar, molasses and spices. Knead slightly on a board, then roll 
out thin and cut with a cake cutter, and bake quickly. 

MRS. CHARLES E. NOBLIT 

SPICE CAKE 

1 cup butter 1 cup cream 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons ginger 

5 eggs 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 cups flour 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup syrup molasses 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks of eggs, then cream, mo- 
lasses, spices and flour with the baking powder in it. Lastly add the 
beaten whites of eggs and bake in a moderate oven ^ of an hour. 

Miss SARAH SELLERS BUNTING 



BOOK OF RECIPES 



205 



1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup molasses 

1 cup chopped raisins 
1/2 cup butter 

2 eggs 



SPICE CAKES 

1 cup sour cream 

2 teaspoons (level) soda 
1 tablespoon ginger 

1/4 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
5 cups (level) flour 



Drop in small spoonfuls on tins and bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. J. HOWARD MARSHALL 



. cup molasses 

1 cup butter 

l /2 cup brown sugar 
1/2 cup strong coffee 
21/2 cups flour 

2 eggs 



COFFEE CAKE 

l /z teaspoon baking soda 
1 pound seeded raisins 
l /4 pound chopped citron 
1 teaspoon (large) cloves 
1 teaspoon allspice 
4 teaspoons cinnamon 
l /2 teaspoon nutmeg 



This cake is almost as rich as fruit cake, and is improved by a little 
brandy or wine. MRS. RICHARD PETERS 



1 cup molasses 

1 cup butter 

1/2 cup brown sugar 
1/2 cup strong coffee 

2 eggs 



COFFEE CAKE 

1/2 teaspoon soda 
1 pound raisins 
l /4 pound citron 
21/2 cups flour 
A little brandy or wine 
Cinnamon and cloves to taste 



MRS. JOHN H. JOPSON 



1 cup butter 

2 cups brown sugar 
1 cup molasses 

1 cup strong coffee 
4 cups (scant) flour 
4 eggs 
1 teaspoon soda 



COFFEE SPICE CAKE 

1 teaspoon allspice 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 teaspoon mace 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/4 teaspoon cloves 
*/2 pound raisins 
1/2 pound currants 
1/2 pound citron 



This makes 2 small loaves. 



Bake in slow oven. 

MRS. EDWARD F. KINGSLEY 



206 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TEA CAKE 

2 pounds flour l /z pound butter 

1 cup sugar Vz pint milk 

7 eggs 2 cups cleansed currants 

1 yeast cake (compressed) 

Dissolve 1 yeast cake in a quarter of a cup of warm (not hot) water 
and then stir in sufficient flour to make a dough. Knead this into a small 
biscuit, and with a sharp knife make a cross almost through, and drop 
it cut side up in a good-sized pitcher, nearly filled with warm (not hot) 
water. Stand in a warm place 10 minutes. 

Cover the dough and stand in a warm place 5 hours. Line pan with 
greased paper. Cover and stand until very light (about 1 hour). Bake 
40 minutes. This will make 2 cakes. 

Cut off the top of the cake, and then another slice in the same way, 
and so on until the whole cake is cut. Now toast on both sides and 
spread with butter. Put the cake together again, and then cut across 
like this +. Serve very hot. 

MRS. THERON I. CRANE 



TEA CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk > 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Flavor with nutmeg 

Bake in tin pans. Put little lumps of butter on top and sprinkle 
with granulated sugar and cinnamon before baking. 

MRS. HARRISON SOUDER 



IRISH TEA CAKE 

4 tablespoons butter Flour enough to make batter 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup milk 

2 eggs (well beaten) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream the butter, then add sugar, flour, eggs and milk, and last 
the baking powder. Bake in very thin layers, and spread each one with 
butter as it comes from the oven hot. Put all together like a layer cake. 

MRS. ALEXANDER E. PATTON 



BOOK OF RECIPES 207 

CINNAMON BUNS 

3 tablespoons butter 6 eggs (well beaten) 

3 tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons (heaping) baking powder 

1 tablespoon salt 1 pound butter 

% quart milk iVfc ounces cinnamon 

1 cake compressed yeast V pound currants 

1 quart water or potato water 1 pound raisins 

3 pounds flour 5 pounds dark brown sugar 

Butter, sugar, salt; scald the milk, let cool to lukewarm, add yeast 
cake and sufficient water or potato water to make even quart. Pour the 
above into bread mixer, and add flour, turn 5 minutes, set in a warm 
place to rise until morning, then add eggs, baking powder and sufficient 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll to a long length and spread with the 
pound of butter, sprinkle with the cinnamon, currants, raisins and brown 
sugar. Roll and cut as you would jelly roll, bake in slow oven. Turn 
out into platter greased with butter. The syrup that runs into tin, dip 
up with spoon and pour over buns. When cool turn right side up, and 
put the syrup left in the platter over the top of buns. 

Above recipe makes 6 tins of 8 buns each. 

MRS. JOHN C. SELTZER, 
President, Woman's Club, Reading, Pa. 

MARION FLECK'S CINNAMON BUN 

Vi pound butter l /2 yeast cake 

1 cup sugar Flour 

2 eggs Pinch of salt 
Rind of 1 lemon Brown sugar 
1 pint milk Currants 

Cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs unseparated, beat. Dis- 
solve yeast cake in a little of the milk, warmed; add milk and yeast cake 
to mixture, also lemon rind. Stir thoroughly; add enough flour to make 
a stiff cake batter, but not enough to make bread dough. Allow to rise 
over night. Spread risen dough over a floured board to a thickness of ^ 
to YZ inch. Spread this liberally with soft butter, brown sugar, currants 
(washed) and cinnamon. With assistance of large knife roll the dough 
up and cut off not thicker than % inch. Place in well buttered tins which 
have been sprinkled with brown sugar. Or place in gem pans. Allow 
to rise till double its bulk. Bake in slow oven. 

Miss EMMA KLAHR 



208 NEWCENTURYCLUB 

CRULLERS 

1 Vz CU PS sugar 2 cups milk 

3 eggs l /4 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 teaspoons baking powder A pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon butter Powdered sugar 

Flour enough to make a smooth dough 

Roll out, cut and drop in boiling lard. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 

CRULLERS 

1 cup shortening (half lard, half butter) 1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 cup water 

1 cup milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 

5 eggs Salt 

1 grated nutmeg 2 quarts (about) sifted flour 

Cook in boiling fat. 

MRS. HENRY P. BROWN 

CRULLERS 

3 eggs Flour enough to make a stiff batter 
H/2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder */2 cup butter 

Roll, form into rings. Boil in lard. 

MRS. CHARLES F. GODSHALL 

AUNT SARAH'S CRULLERS 

(Can't be beat) 

1 pound sugar 1 cup thick milk 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon bicarbonate of soda 

Butter the size of an egg Cinnamon to taste 

Flour enough to make a soft dough 

Melt butter, beat eggs separately, put soda into the sour milk. Stir 
sugar and yolks of eggs and butter well, then add sour milk, and lastly 
the whites of eggs, and carefully flour to make soft dough. Cut out in 
rings and cook in hot lard. An experienced cook needs no more definite 
directions. 

I enjoy getting into the kitchen on a wet day and doing some of these 
old-time dishes. DR. FRANCES N. BAKER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 209 

CINNAMON RINGS 

!/2 pound butter 2 eggs 

Vfe pound pulverized sugar 1 pound flour 

1 teaspoon (small) cinnamon Granulated sugar 

Cream butter and pulverized sugar, add cinnamon, then eggs, beaten 
very light, and flour. Roll rather thin with a doughnut cutter, sprinkle 
with granulated sugar and bake light brown in a rather quick oven. 

MRS. WILLIAM A. FLANIGEN 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 quart milk 2 white potatoes (boiled and grated 
3 /4 pound (scant) butter when cold) 

2 pounds sugar Flour to make a soft dough 
Nutmeg to taste l / 2 cake yeast 

MRS. GEORGE H. VANDERBECK 
DOUGHNUTS 



2 quarts sifted flour l l / 2 pints milk 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

iVz cups granulated sugar l / 2 yeast cake 

2 eggs 

Scald milk, melt in it the butter (or other shortening) ; when tepid, 
stir it into the flour mixture and beat hard. Add y yeast dissolved in 
Y^ cup warm water, and stir again. Let rise 6 hours in warm (not hot) 
place; then add beaten eggs, stir all well together, and let rise again until 
very light (perhaps 2 hours). Add sufficient flour to roll out, cut in 
diamond-shape strips, or with circular, double-ring cutter; fry in deep, 
smoking-hot fat. Test the heat of the fat by dropping into it a crust 
of bread; if it browns in 1 minute, it is right heat. Care must be taken 
that the cakes do not brown before they are thoroughly cooked. 

Proportions for this recipe for large family. 

MRS. EUGENE H. AUSTIN 

JUMBLES 

6 ounces butter 2 eggs 

6 ounces sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

12 ounces flour Vanilla 

Roll as thin as possible. Miss ANNA S. ECKPELDT 

14 



210 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 pint milk 3 or 4 eggs 

Vfe pound butter 1 pound sugar 

3 potatoes 2 yeast cakes 

Use half the sugar when sponged, add the other half when ready to 
knead. Keep very warm until ready to fry. Set the sponge about ten 
o'clock if using home-made yeast; if compressed yeast, a little later. 
Scald the milk, melting the butter in it. Boil the potatoes and put 
through patent masher. Pour the milk over the potatoes, stirring slowly. 
Add one-half the sugar, which must be greater in quantity if home-made 
yeast is used. Use flour to make proper consistency. Let rise till eve- 
ning, then add eggs and remaining half of sugar, and knead. In the morn- 
ing, cut into shape and keep very warm till light (2 hours), then fry. Put 
salt in potatoes when boiling. Mix sugar with potatoes while potatoes 
are hot after putting through masher. 

An old and well-tried recipe. MRS. S. BERNARD CHAMBERS 

JUMBLES 

1 cup butter 1 egg (beaten whole) 

1 cup sugar 1V2 cups flour 

Cream sugar and butter, add beaten egg, then slowly add flour 
(sifted). Flavor with rose water, drop from a teaspoon on tin sheet; 
bake in quick oven. MRS. C. L. PEIRCE 

CINNAMON NUT CAKES 

Vk pound butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

l /4 cup milk 4 eggs (beaten separately) 

1 lemon rind Vz pound pulverized sugar 

y z pound flour 

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the lemon rind 
grated, the yolks of eggs, then the flour and milk alternately and then 
the baking powder in a little of the flour, and the whites of the eggs. Bake 
in a shallow, long pan (the cake to be about 1 inch thick). Put on top 
when baked : 

1 cup granulated sugar Vi pound ground almonds 

A sprinkle of cinnamon 

This is put on when cold, and the cake then cut into diamond shapes. 

MRS. HENRY P. BROWN 



BOOK OF RECIPES 211 

MRS. EDITH C. JAMES' NUT CAKE 

1 cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder (mixed in 
3 /4 cup cream the flour) 

4 eggs 1 quart shellbark kernels 

% pound raisins 

Flour, nuts and raisins put in last. In these days when shellbarks 
are so scarce I find ]/2 pound to be sufficient. 

This Nut Cake recipe came to me from my mother, and as she was 
so long a member of the New Century Club, I have given it her name. 

MRS. WILLIAM SHEWELL ELLIS 

NUT COOKIES 

2 tablespoons butter 1/2 cup flour 

3 /4 cup sugar 2 tablespoons milk 

1 egg l /2 cup chopped nuts 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar and egg well beaten. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients; add to the first mixture, and then add milk, nuts and vanilla. 
Drop from a teaspoon on unbuttered sheet, 1 inch apart, and place nut 
on top of each. Bake in a slow oven. Miss MARY S. PARRY 

HICKORY NUT KISSES 

5 eggs (whites) 1 pound confectioner's sugar 

1 quart hickory nuts 

Beat eggs very little, only enough to mix them. Put in all the sugar 
at once (powdered sugar will do if sifted as fine as flour) and beat until 
very stiff and stands alone. Fold in nuts that have been broken in half; 
bake in moderate oven. Drop on greased paper 1 spoonful enough for 
one. When it cracks open and pops up, it is done and will be creamy. 
Take from oven at once. MRS. ALEXANDER E. PATTON 

WALNUT WAFERS 

1 cup brown sugar Vs teaspoon salt 

1 cup walnut meats (chopped fine) 3 teaspoons (even) flour 

2 eggs. 

Beat the eggs together, add sugar, salt and flour; then the walnuts. 
Mix well together, spread as thin as possible in a buttered pan. Bake in 
a hot oven; cut in squares before cold. Miss CLARA LEE BOWMAN 



212 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

WALNUT WAFERS 

l /2 pound brown sugar 3 tablespoons (even) flour 

l /z pound English walnut meats 14 teaspoon baking powder 

(slightly broken, not chopped) l / 3 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

Beat eggs well, add sugar, salt and flour, into which baking powder 
has been sifted, and lastly the nuts. Drop a small teaspoonful of the bat- 
ter for each wafer on the well-buttered pan, and allow plenty of space 
between, as they spread. Bake in a moderate oven and remove from pan 
as soon as baked, as they would stick to the pan. 

Delicious. My friends are always pleased when I serve them. 

MRS. THOMAS THEODORE WATSON 



PECAN WAFERS 

2 tablespoons (level) butter 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

V4 cup sugar J /2 cup flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

2 tablespoons (scant) milk 1 cup pecan nuts (chopped) 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg to this mixture. Beat 
all together with egg-beater; then add milk, flour and lemon juice. To 
this mixture add pecans. Bake from 12 to 15 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Do not grease the pan, but put the little cakes in with a teaspoon 
about 2 inches apart. These are very delicious for afternoon tea. 

MRS. EDWARD WETHERILL 

BROWN CHRISTMAS COOKIES (GERMAN) 

2 pounds butter 10 cents worth cardamom seed 
2*4 pounds sugar l /z pound blanched almonds 

3 pounds cooking syrup (New Orleans 1 crystallized lemon peel 

molasses) l /2 citron peel 

Vz pound crystallized orange peel Vs pound potash (baking soda) 

8 pounds flour 

Heat and mix the butter, sugar and molasses. Put through the 
grinder (fine) the orange peel, cardamom seed, almonds, lemon peel and 
citron peel. Mix batter and stand over night. Roll about ]/$ inch thick, 
cut into cookies, insert half blanched almonds, and bake on tins in moder- 
ate oven. Pack away in stone crocks, and these will last all winter. 

MRS. WILLIAM C. LOWRY 



BOOK OF RECIPES 213 

CHESTER COUNTY COOKIES 

3 cups sugar 2 eggs 

1 cup sour cream 5 cups flour 

1 cup butter V teaspoon (scant) soda 

Mix sugar, cream, butter, eggs, flour, and soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Flavor with vanilla or lemon. Drop in a well-greased pan 
far enough apart to spread. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. EDMUND WEBSTER 

FRENCH COOKIES 

3 /4 pound butter 1 pound flour 

2 cups (scant) granulated sugar 1 egg 

Blend butter and sugar, work in flour, drop in 1 egg (or 2 if mixture 
be too dry to hold together). Put on ice over night. 

% pound almonds Sugar 

Sherry wine Cinnamon 

1 egg 

Blanch the almonds, split them in two, wet with sherry and roll in 
mixture of sugar and cinnamon. Take portion of dough out and roll as 
thin as possible, using very little flour. Cut out with heart-shaped cutter. 
When in pan spread cookies with egg (white and yolk beaten together 
very lightly), using back of spoon to spread it on, and then place 3 halves 
of almonds on the center of each cooky, radiating from the center. 

MRS. WILLIAM B. CAMPBELL 

ENGLISH CHRISTMAS CAKES 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
% cup butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sour milk (or boiling water) 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

3 eggs Vz teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in 1 table- 1 cup raisins 

spoon boiling water) 1 cup English walnuts (chopped) 

Vi citron (cut in small pieces) 

Flour to stiffen and drop from a spoon. 

These "English Christmas Cakes" were served at our Christmas 
Tea, and were delicious. 

MRS. CHARLES D. Cox, 
President, The Woman's Club of Phoenixville, Pa. 



214 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

LITTLE CHRISTMAS CAKES 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 coffee cup hickory nuts or English 

2 eggs walnuts (chopped) 
7 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Drop one teaspoonful at a time on greased paper in tin. Bake in 
moderate oven. A raisin, nut meat or frosting can be put in center. 

MRS. FREDERICK J. McWADE 

SWEDISH COOKIES 

3 cups flour Grated rind of l /z lemon 
1 cup sugar 1 raw egg 

12 ounces butter 3 hard-boiled eggs (yolks) 

Chopped almonds 

Mash hard-boiled yolks through a sieve, add raw egg and other 
ingredients, mix well with the hand and put on ice for an hour. Roll 
out thin, cut in small shapes, brush with beaten egg, sprinkle with chopped 
almonds mixed with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven, a golden brown. 

MRS. CALEB J. MILNE, JR. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

1 cup brown sugar (light) 2 teaspoons baking soda (dissolved in 

y 2 cup butter the apple sauce) 

11/2 cups apple sauce 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1/2 teaspoon cloves 2 cups flour 

1 cup raisins 

Bake about ^ hour in a moderate oven. 

MRS. WILLIAM SIMPSON, JR. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

iy z cups sweetened apple sauce 2 teaspoons soda 

(beaten smooth) 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

% cup lard or drippings (melted) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

11/2 cups brown sugar J /2 teaspoon cloves 

Va teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon allspice 

21/2 cups flour 1 cup raisins 

1 cup currants 

Mix in order given, putting in the }4 cup of flour with the fruit. 
Bake in a loaf for 2 hours in a rather slow oven. Test with a straw. 
This may be made from dried-apple sauce. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 



BOOK OF RECIPES 215 

POUND CAKE 

1 pound sugar 1 pound flour 

% pound butter 10 eggs (leaving out the yolks of 2) 

Beat eggs and sugar until very light. Beat butter and flour to a 
soft cream. Add eggs and sugar to butter and flour. Bake very slowly 
2 hours. 

This I consider the prize of my private collection and the easiest 
and best recipe for pound cake I have known. 

MRS. MAHLON B. PAXSON 



BOSTON POUND CAKE 

1 pound sugar 1 cup cream 

34 pound butter Peel of 2 lemons (grated) 

1 pound flour Juice of 1 lemon 

6 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

Beat the butter and sugar very light, add gradually the cream and 
lemons, J4 f the flour. Beat the eggs separately, and stir ^ at a time 
after mixing well; add the rest of the flour, beat all together 10 or 15 
minutes, then put in the soda; not much beating after that. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

MRS. GEORGE F. KLEMM 



ORANGE CAKE 

cups flour 5 eggs (the white of 1 to be used for 

2 cups sugar icing) 

1 cup butter 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon soda 

1 orange (juice and grated rind) 



Save a little rind for icing. 



ICING 



1 cup sugar Vi cup hot water 

V4 teaspoon cream of tartar 1 egg (white) 

Stir cream of tartar in sugar dry; add hot water. Boil 6 minutes, 
or until it "hairs." Pour slowly into beaten white of egg, beating all the 
time. Add flavor; beat until thick enough to spread. 

MRS. CHARLES Z. TRYON 



216 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE 

1 cocoanut (small) 6 eggs (whites) 

3 cups flour 1/2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

Put y$ of the grated cocoanut in last. MRS. HUGH MC!LVAIN 

ORANGE CAKE 

Yolks of 5 eggs 2 cups flour 

Whites of 4 eggs (3 whites will answer 2 teaspoons baking powder 

if eggs be scarce) 1 lemon (juice and grated rind) 

2 cups sugar l / 2 cup cold water 

Beat the yolks until light, then with the sugar, the rind and juice 
of the lemon. Sift the flour and beat into the mixture, alternating with 
the water. Add the baking powder in the second cup of flour. Lastly 
the well-beaten whites. Bake in 3 layers. 

ORANGE ICING 

2 eggs (whites) 1 orange (rind and juice) 

1 pound pulverized sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs until light, adding pulver'zed sugar (about 
1 pound). Grate the yellow skin of 1 orange (though better with the rind 
of 2 oranges). Beat the rind and juice into the whites of egg alternately 
with the sugar. Allow to stand awhile in order to stiffen somewhat. 
Spread between the layers and over the top. 

MRS. ROBERT P. BROWN 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE 

1 quart sifted flour 1 tablespoon white sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons butter 
1 teaspoon salt Milk 

Mix flour, baking powder, salt and sugar thoroughly. Then add 
butter and sweet milk sufficient to make soft dough. Roll out in 3 layers, 
slightly butter each layer, lay one on top of the other, bake 22 minutes; 
separate the layers while warm, place bottom crust on plate, cover with 
sliced orange, sprinkle thickly with sugar, lay on second crust, and pro- 
ceed as before; dust top with powdered sugar. 

MRS. H. L. BARNES 



BOOK OF RECIPES 217 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

Make 4 layers of rich white cake. Make a frosting (boiled) of 4 
cups granulated sugar and the beaten whites of 4 eggs. Divide this frost- 
ing into 4 equal parts. 

First portion. Stir 1 finely grated cocoanut and the pulp of 1 orange 
rubbed through a sieve. Spread on first layer of cake. 

Second portion. Stir 1 cup of English walnuts, chopped fine; 1 cup 
of chopped raisins; 1 tablespoon of grated chocolate. Place on 2d layer. 

Third portion. Stir 1 cup of chopped almonds; 1 cup of citron 
chopped fine; and place on 3d layer of cake. 

Fourth portion. Should be spread smooth and white, thick and soft 
on top of cake with cocoanut, almonds and raisins. 

MRS. HARRY A. HORNOR 

DEVIL CAKE 

1 cup sugar Vz CU P boiling water 

1/2 cup (small) butter 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon (level) soda 
1/2 cup sour milk 1 % cups flour 

3 tablespoons (level) cocoa (put in last) 

If you like it thin, bake in long gingerbread pans. 

MRS. LEWIS M. JOHNSON 

FAVORITE CAKE 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup molasses 1 nutmeg 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon soda 

4 eggs 1 pound chopped raisins 

4 cups flour (light weight) Pinch of salt 

Citron, brandy and currants if desired 



MRS. WALTER T. BAIRD 



SCOTCH CAKES 



34 pound butter 1V4 pounds flour 

1 pound sugar 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

Roll thin, cut with cake cutter. 

Miss MATILDA BAIRD 



218 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

MOCK LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

1 egg 2 cups sifted flour 

1 cup (scant) sugar 1 tablespoon (heaping) butter 

1 cup sweet milk 4 teaspoons (level) baking powder 

Drop butter in blood heat water until softened; pour off water, and 
cream sugar and butter in same bowl. Add whole unbeaten egg, and 
mix, then alternate flour and milk. Immediately before placing in pans 
to bake, sift in the baking powder. Pour into two cake pans and place 
at very top of oven at back (of gas range) and bake 20 minutes, using 
only the front burner. Light oven 5 minutes before placing cake in for 
baking. Test layers by imprint of fingers to know when done. 

FILLING 

% cup sugar 1/2 cup chopped nut meats 

y 2 cup cold water V cup chopped seeded raisins 

Yolk of 1 egg l /z teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it threads, then pour over the beaten 
yolk and beat. Add nuts and raisins, and spread between the layers. 
Make white icing for top and sides. 

MRS. LAURA CHANDLER BOOTH, 
President, The New Century Club of Kennett Square, Pa. 



BI-METALLIC CAKE 

l /2 cup (scant) butter 1 % cups flour 

l / 2 cup sugar 3 eggs 

l /2 CU P n"^ * ! /2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon extract almond 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add milk very slowly, then the 
flour (sifted), powder, almond and beaten whites. Bake in a moderately 
quick oven for ]^ hour. 

ICING 

Take the yolks, beat until light, to which add a syrup made by boil- 
ing together until it spins a heavy thread, 1 cup granulated sugar and half 
a cup boiling water. Flavor with 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

This recipe makes a white cake with a golden icing and is quite worth 
a trial. 

MRS. THOMAS BIDDLE ELLIS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 219 

BOWL, CUP AND SPOON CAKE 

(Only these three utensils are used in mixing the cake) 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs (whites) 

l l /2 cups flour Melted butter 

1 big teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup milk 

A pinch of salt Vanilla to taste 

Mix these dry ingredients in the bowl. Drop the whites of eggs 
(unbeaten) in measuring cup. Add melted butter to half-way mark. 
Fill remaining half cup with milk. Pour contents of cup into bowl, add- 
ing vanilla and stirring thoroughly. 

MRS. H. H. WHITE, 
President, New Century Club of Pottstown, Pa. 

LACE CAKES 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup (scant) sugar A pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon (large) baking powder 1 tablespoon melted butter 

21/2 cups uncooked Quaker oats 

Drop in large pan 1 teaspoonful for each cake. Bake in slow oven. 

MRS. WILLIAM H. HOLLAR 

SWISS LOAF CAKE 

1 cup butter 1 cup milk 

l l /z cups sugar 2 eggs 

2 l /4 cups flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks, then milk and flour, and whites 
of eggs. Sift baking powder and flour together. Flavor with vanilla. 

MRS. CALEB S. MIDDLETON 

"RIZ" CAKE 

3 /4 cup butter (creamed) '/ 2 teaspoon soda (dissolved in hot 
2 1/2 cups sugar water) 

3 eggs 1 pound raisins 
1 cup sour milk Vi pound citron 
J /2 cup sweet milk 1/2 nutmeg 

3 cups flour '/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

Let it stand in the bread pans 1 hour in a warm place. Bake in a 
bread oven. MRS. ISAAC S. LOWRY 



220 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

JAM CAKE 

1 cup butter 4 or 5 eggs (beaten separately) 

2 cups sugar i/i teaspoon (about) ground black 
1 cup sweet milk pepper 

4 cups flour 1 teaspoon allspice 

3 teaspoons baking powder (sifted well 1 teaspoon cloves 

into the flour) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup of jam raspberry or blackberry is best 

Bake in layers, spread jam between and ice. 

MRS. H. J. KALTENTHALER 

ONE-EGG CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

IVi cups flour 1 egg 

1/2 cup milk 1 1/ 2 teaspoons baking powder 

A pinch of salt 

Bake in a loaf add dots of butter and cinnamon on top. 

MRS. ALFRED MARSHALL 

COMPOSITION CAKE 

5 eggs 1 cup milk 

4 cups sifted flour 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 
2Vz cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 1 lemon (juice and grated rind) 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add beaten yolks, then add milk 
and part of flour; with rest of flour add the whites beaten very light. 
Flavor with juice and rind of lemon. This will make a loaf and 12 small 
cakes. 

MRS. JAMES MAPES DODGE 

FRIED CAKES 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder 

Melt sugar in the milk. This prevents absorption of grease. Roll 
half an inch thick after mixing soft, and fry in hot lard. Flavor with 
nutmeg. 

MRS. JAMES MAPES DODGE 



BOOK OF RECIPES 221 

SMALL LADY CAKE 

Vi pound butter 1 cup sweet milk 

2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 

10 eggs (whites) 1 teaspoon (heaping) baking powder 

Flavor with almond 

MRS. NEWTON E. WOOD, 
President, The Neighbors, Hatboro, Pa. 



SILVER CAKE 

l /2 cup butter 2V 2 cups flour 

l l /2 cups pulverized sugar 2 tablespoons baking powder 

1 cup tepid water 4 eggs (whites) 

Beat butter to a cream, add pulverized (or granulated) sugar, beat 
again. Add tepid water and flour. Beat thoroughly for 5 minutes, then 
stir in baking powder and well-beaten whites of eggs. Flavor with almond 
extract, bake in a moderate oven, about 1 hour. If followed exactly this 
makes a delicious cake. 

The yolks of the eggs can be used for mayonnaise dressing or cup 
custards. 

MRS. ANDREW M. EASTWICK 



BROWN CAKE 

2 cups light brown sugar \/z cup milk 

2 cups flour l /2 cup boiling water 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking soda 

l /2 cup butter Vi cake chocolate (grated) 

Beat butter, sugar and yolks together, add milk, then the soda, dis- 
solved in half the boiling water, and chocolate in the other half of boil- 
ing water; then add flour, and last, the whites, beaten. Bake in 3 layers. 

CARAMEL ICING 

2 cups light brown sugar Small lump of butter 

l /2 CU P cream 1 spoon vanilla 

Boil a few minutes, beat until thick, add vanilla. 

MRS. ALLEN R. MITCHELL 



222 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BLACK CAKE 

1 pound butter 1 glass of Madeira wine 

l l /4 pounds sugar 2 glasses brandy 

1 pound flour 1 glass rose water 
12 eggs 2 nutmegs 

3 pounds raisins (seeded and chopped) 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 pounds currants 1 teaspoon cloves 

2 pounds citron 1 glass currant jelly 

Bake in a moderate oven 4 hours. 

This recipe has been used in our family for many years, and if fol- 
lowed closely you cannot fail in it. 

MRS. HUGH MC!LVAIN 

MOCHA TARE (CAKE) 

1 cup powdered sugar 4 eggs 

1 cup (scant) flour 2 tablespoons coffee extract 

1 teaspoon (small) baking powder 

Beat together the yolks of eggs and the sugar, then add the flour and 
baking powder, and extract. Add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs last 
of all. Bake in 3 layers. When cold whip ^ pint double cream, 2 tea- 
spoons of coffee extract, and sweeten to taste. Add this cream filling 
between the layers and on top, just as you are going to use the cake. 

MRS. HENRY P. BROWN 

"SCRIPTURE CAKE" 

1 cup butter Judges 5: 25 

2 cups sugar Jeremiah 6: 20 
3 1/2 cups flour, prepared with 

2 l / 2 teaspoons baking powder 1st Kings 4: 22 

2 cups raisins 1st Samuel 30: 12 

2 cups figs 1st Samuel 30: 12 

1 cup almonds Genesis 43 : 1 1 

1 cup water Genesis 24 : 20 

6 eggs Isaiah 10: 14 

A little salt Leviticus 2 : 13 

1 spoon (large) honey Exodus 16:31 

Sweet spices to taste 1st Kings 10: 12 

Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys and you will have 
a good cake. 

An old "trusted and tried" recipe MRS. GEORGE F. KLEMM 



BOOK OF RECIPES 223 

NEW AMSTERDAM MOLASSES CAKE 

1 cup molasses 1 cup (scant) solid sour milk 

1 egg 1 teaspoon (even) bicarbonate of soda 

1/2 cup butter and lard mixed (mostly 2 ! /2 cups flour 

butter) 2 teaspoons ground ginger 

l /z teaspoon ground nutmeg 

Cream your butter well, then add egg without beating; stir well 
together, and then add molasses. Now take sour milk, in which you 
have dissolved your soda before you began to mix (this you should set 
in a saucer, as it is liable to foam up over the cup), put all in, both from 
saucer and cup, using some of your flour alternately with it until all is 
used; lastly your spices. If spices are not liked you can add 1 scant cup 
of well-mashed currants, which should be well-floured with about 1 table- 
spoon of extra flour. Bake in a moderate oven, either in small patty 
pans, long shallow pans, or a turk's head pan with a tube in the center. 
If in the latter, serve hot, fill the hole in the center with whipped cream 
and serve with a hot chocolate sauce as a dessert. 

This is an old recipe brought from Holland to this country before 
New Amsterdam became New York and was often served boiled, as well 
as baked in their Dutch ovens. 

The Molasses Cake recipe my three times great-grandmother trans- 
lated into English from the Dutch, so the story goes. 

MRS. JOHN GRIBBEL 

ZOLLICOFFER OR TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE 

l /2 cup butter 1 cup milk 

11/2 cups sugar 4 eggs (whites) 

3 cups flour l l /2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix together the butter, sugar, flour, milk, whites of eggs and bak- 
ing powder. 

FILLING 

1 pound sugar % pound figs 

3 eggs (whites) Vz pound raisins 

Vi pound citron * Vz pound blanched almonds 

Moisten sugar and boil until it spins from the spoon. Pour this 
over the beaten whites of eggs. Beat hard, then add citron, figs, raisins 
and almonds, all cut up fine. Spread the mixture between layers and 
on top of cake. MRS. JOSEPHINE L. ADAMS 



224 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

BURGESS CAKE 

3 /4 pound butter 1 teaspoon nutmeg and cinnamon mixed 

1 pound sugar 4 eggs (beaten separately) 

1 wineglass brandy J /2 pound currants 

10 ounces (about) flour 

Rub butter and sugar together until smooth, then add the yolks of 
the eggs, brandy and spices. When thoroughly mixed, add about half 
of the flour, then the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; mix the 
remaining half of the flour with the currants and stir lightly into the 
mixture. Bake on tin sheets in a moderate oven. See that you do not 
get too much flour or the cakes will not be crisp. 

MRS. HARRY G. MICHENER 



WHITE FLAKED RICE CAKES 

l /2 to 3 A package of flaked rice (2 cups 1 cup sugar 

and more) 1 l /z teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons flour 

21/2 tablespoons melted butter 

Beat eggs; add one cup sugar and beat again, add butter, then rice 
and flour (well mixed with baking powder). Drop from spoon on greased 
pans; push together on pan must not be flat. It is best to work in a 
little rice at a time. Bake. Work in more when ready to make up second 
pan, etc. Don't add all rice at once or batter will fall flat. 

MRS. LEON S. DEXTER 

ENGLISH CAKE 

10 eggs Their weight in flour 

Their weight in sugar The weight of 6 in butter 

This has been in our family for seventy-five years a "tried" recipe. 

MRS. NEWTON E. WOOD, 
President, The Neighbors, Hatboro, Pa. 

AMES CAKE 

1 cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 5 eggs 

Mix butter and sugar, add flour and then well-beaten eggs. Flavor 
with any extract preferred. Miss FLORENCE E. TAYLOR 



BOOK OF RECIPES 225 

TAYLOR CAKES 

y 2 pound (scant) light brown sugar 1 tablespoon soda 

1/2 pound butter 1V4 pounds flour 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

1 pint New Orleans molasses 2 tablespoons ginger 

1 pint thick milk 1 tablespoon cloves 

Dissolve soda in molasses. Drop in pans and bake. 

Miss ANNIE HEACOCK 

SUGAR CAKE 

1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon 1 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 cup brown sugar 1 cup milk 

1/2 cup currants 1 egg 

2 cups self-raising flour 1/4 pound melted butter 

1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

Put flour in a bowl and add baking powder and one-half of the melted 
butter and three-fourths of the granulated sugar, all the milk and beaten 
egg. Add currants last. Pour into two pans and cover the top with 
cinnamon, brown sugar and the remainder of the granulated sugar. Last 
of all, pour the remainder of the butter over the top of the two cakes. 
Bake in a moderate oven 25 or 30 minutes. One-third of a cup of shelled 
black walnuts instead of the currants may be used. 

MRS. WILBUR F. LITCH 

DELICIOUS PLAIN CAKE 

1 cup sugar, beaten with 1 cup rich milk 

1/2 cup butter 2 cups sifted flour 

1 egg 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon (level) nutmeg 

Bake in slow oven. Miss LIDA PAULL FIFE 

ANGEL CAKE 

6 eggs (whites) Flavoring 

% cup granulated sugar 1/2 cup flour 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

Beat whites of eggs very stiff. Beat sugar slowly into whites. Add 
flavoring. Sift cream of tartar with flour and fold quickly into whites 
and sugar. Bake in ungreased pan in slow oven. 

MRS. EDWIN B. NEWCOMER 

15 



226 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

GOOD PLAIN CAKE 

(Philadelphia Cooking School) 

6 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup pulverized sugar iVz cups flour 

2 eggs ^4 teaspoon spice, or 
l /z CU P niilk 1/2 teaspoon flavoring 

Sift flour, baking powder and spice together. Cream butter and work 
in sugar gradually. Separate egg, beat yolk and pour milk into it. Add 
portions of this and dry mixture alternately to the creamed butter and 
sugar. Stir well to make smooth batter. Beat whites stiff and fold in 
carefully. Bake ^ of an hour. Try with clean straw. 

Currants, raisins, quartered and seeded, or citron or candied orange 
peel cut into thin slices dredged with flour may be added just before baking. 
For marble cake stir a little cocoa into part of the batter. 

For orange cake put candied orange peel in the cake and frost with 
confectioner's sugar flavored with orange juice. 

MRS. JOHN J. McGuiGAN 

ANGEL FOOD 

11/2 cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon bitter almond extract 

12 eggs (whites) 

Sift flour and cream of tartar 4 times; beat whites stiff, stir in last, 
always stirring gently. Bake in moderate oven; when done turn upside 
down and it will in time drop free from the tin. 

MRS. JOHN D. MC!LHENNY 

"ROCKS" (DELICIOUS LITTLE CAKES) 

(Mrs. M. B. Torr's recipe) 

1 cup sugar 1 pound English walnuts (chopped) 
% cup butter 1 pound seeded raisins 

l a /2 cups flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon soda 

Cream sugar with butter; add flour, eggs, walnuts, raisins, cinnamon, 
cloves and soda (dissolved in hot water). Drop by teaspoon on greased 
tins and bake. The dough must be very stiff. Place half an English 
walnut on each cake before baking. 

These keep as well as fruit cake. Miss ANNE HEYGATE-HALL 



BOOK OF RECIPES 227 

HERMITS 

(Delicious Small Cakes) 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

2 cups sugar l /z cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon (level) soda 

Add eggs to the creamed butter and sugar; add sour milk, with soda 
dissolved in a little milk. 

l /2 pound figs (cut fine) Vfe teaspoon cloves 

1 teacup raisins (cut fine) 3 cups flour (add carefully ; do not 
Vz pound English walnuts (chopped) have too thick) 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 3 teaspoons liquid vanilla, or equivalent 

in vanilla bean 

Lard baking pans, drop batter, a teaspoon at a time, two inches 
apart on pan. Bake only until light brown. 

MRS. LEON S. DEXTER 

KISSES 

l /2 pound pulverized sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs (whites) 

Bake on a board ; first moisten it and cover with brown paper. Bake 
slowly. This will make 2 dozen kisses. MRS. JOHN D. MC!LHENNY 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL BALLS 

2^/2 cups brown sugar 1 cup sweet cream 

Butter the size of a walnut Vi cake Baker's chocolate 

1 teaspoon vanilla (put in last) 

Beat until light. Roll in balls the size of small marbles and roll in 
granulated sugar. Do not cook until brittle. 

MRS. J. HOWARD MARSHALL 

SAND TARTS 

2 pounds flour 1 1 /4 pounds butter 

2 pounds granulated sugar 3 eggs 

Mix the sugar, butter and flour, wet it with the eggs, well beaten, 
and mix very well together. Roll very thin, and sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon mixed. Cut thin, and stick in, before baking, 3 or 4 blanched 
almonds. MRS. J. GIBSON MC!LVAIN 



228 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

SAND TARTS 

1 pound sugar Vz pound butter (flavored with lemon) 

1 pound flour 6 eggs 

Roll very thin, brush with egg and put granulated sugar, pecan nut 
and cinnamon on top. Bake in quick oven. 

These cakes will keep indefinitely in tin boxes, and are fine to serve 
with tea. MRS. HARRISON SOUDER 

MANDELBRODCHEN 

3 eggs (whites) Vz pound almonds 

l /z pound pulverized sugar 2 ounces sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs with pulverized sugar for 15 minutes. Blanch 
the almonds and chop fine or run through a meat-grinder; mix with 2 
ounces of sugar and brown slightly in the oven; when cool mix with the 
beaten white of egg and sugar. Drop in small cakes on a greased paper 
and bake in a cool oven. MRS. JOHN L. APPLETON 

CARAMEL ICING 

iVfe cups brown sugar, mixed with % cup cream 

1 tablespoon (large) flour J /2 cup (scant) butter 

Boil until very thick. Stir all the time (about 10 minutes). Spread 
on cake while hot. MRS. WALTER C. MC!NTIRE 

CHOCOLATE NUT FROSTING 

11/2 cups sugar 8 squares chocolate 

8 tablespoons milk Vanilla 

% pound English walnuts 

Boil sugar, milk and chocolate 8 minutes. Set in a dish of cold water 
and beat until thick enough to spread, then add vanilla and walnuts 
broken in small pieces. Spread on loaf of thick plain cake. 

MRS. FRANK H. BURPEE 

A GOOD ICING FOR CAKE 

Two tablespoons of orange juice and the grated rind of the orange. 
Three cups of 4 X sugar. Mix the juice and the sugar, and pour boiling 
water on the whole a little at a time, until it is the consistency of boiled 
icing or a thick custard. Pour over the cake and spread over that's 
all. MRS. CHARLES H. WOOLLEY 



Canbies 

The daint est last, to make Ihe end most sweet. RICHARD II. 



(229) 



NUT CANDY 

2 cups granulated sugar 2 teaspoons (about) vinegar 
Vz cup water Nuts 

Mix sugar, water and vinegar; boil without stirring, until brittle 
when dropped in cold water. Butter shallow pans and pour over nuts 
(peanuts, shellbarks, walnuts or any nuts you may have). It is well 
to let the nuts get warm before pouring in the mixture. 

MRS. J. GIBSON MC!LVAIN 

NUT CHOCOLATES 

Grate or cut into square pieces a cake of Baker's (bitter) chocolate. 
Add to this about y z cup of water and melt over a boiling tea kettle. 
When the chocolate is thoroughly melted remove from over the kettle, 
and stir in confectioner's sugar (or a fine pulverized sugar will do) until 
it is the right consistency to be formed into balls in the fingers. This 
is much like the French candy and when formed into balls and put 
between two English walnuts, is very good. 

Miss ALICE PUSEY CHAMBERS 

WALNUT CANDY 

3 cups brown sugar Butter the size of an egg 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup water 1 pound walnut meats (broken) 

Boil sugar and water until it will form a soft ball in cold water. Add 
butter and cream of tartar and beat until nearly stiff, then add walnut 
meats. 

MRS. EDWIN B. NEWCOMER 

SEA FOAM 

3 cups brown sugar 2 eggs (whites) 

1 cup water 1 cup English walnuts (chopped) 

Boil sugar and water until it strings. Stir this syrup gradually into 
the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Add walnuts and when it has been beaten 
nearly hard, drop from a spoon on a buttered platter. 

MRS. DANIEL R. HARPER 

(231) 



232 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TAFFY 

1 pound brown sugar V 2 teacup vinegar 

1 pound butter l /% teacup water 

Put the vinegar, water and butter on the fire until warm, then add 
sugar; boil until it will crack when dropped in cold water. 
This is the very best recipe for Taffy I know. 

MRS. J. GIBSON MC!LVAIN 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

3 ounces Baker's chocolate Butter the size of a walnut 

2 l /2 cups granulated sugar 1/2 cup cream (good measure) 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

If you wish nut fudge, add 1 cup of nuts, cut fine. 

Melt the chocolate on a pie plate ; melt butter in saucepan ; add sugar, 
chocolate and cream. Put on fire to boil, and when boiling all over, time 
it and boil 6 minutes, then add nuts. Take from fire, stir hard until it 
begins to thicken; add vanilla; pour quickly into pan already greased 
with a little butter. (Pan 10 inches long, 6 inches wide). Cut candy 
into blocks before it gets entirely cold. MRS. C. L. HUTCHINSON 

FUDGE 

2 ounces Baker's chocolate 1 cup milk or cream 
2 cups granulated sugar Large piece of butter 

*/4 teaspoon vanilla 

Do not cook too long. Take off the fire when chocolate granulates 
around the sides of the pan. Put the vanilla in just before you take from 
the fire. Beat the mixture for 3, or maybe only 2 minutes. 

MRS. H. G. MICHENER 

FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 2 squares Baker's chocolate 

1 cup milk 1 cup raisins (cut) 

Butter the size of a walnut 1 cup English walnuts (broken) 

Boil sugar and milk well, then add butter; when melted, add choco- 
late; boil again well, and when cool, beat about 10 minutes; then add 
raisins and walnuts. Put away to harden. 

THE MISSES LONGSTRETH 



BOOK OF RECIPES 233 

MARSHMALLOW FUDGE 

2 cups brown sugar i/ 2 cake Baker's chocolate 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk Butter the size of a walnut 

Boil, stirring constantly, sugar, milk and chocolate, until the mix- 
ture soft balls in cold water. Add butter just before, and vanilla just 
after removing from fire. Stir until it begins to stiffen, and pour into 
buttered pans. If desired, ]/?. pound of marshmallows may be added just 
after the vanilla. Best prepared on charing dish. 

Miss MARY CRAIG PEACOCK 

BROOK GROVE FUDGE 

1/2 cake Baker's chocolate Butter the size of an egg 

2 large cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
% cup cream Pinch of salt 

Cook until thick, then take off stove and beat until it begins to be 
stiff and creamy. Stir in vanilla and pour out on buttered plates. Add 
salt when nearly finished. Miss MARY JANNEY 

FRUIT FUDGE 

3 cups granulated sugar l / 2 cup seeded raisins 
3 teaspoons soda l /z cup nuts 

% cup milk Vi cup cocoanut 

1 tablespoon butter 3 /4 cup figs (cut small) 

Boil sugar, soda, milk and butter. When it will form a soft ball in 
cold water, add raisins, nuts, cocoanut and figs. Beat until it begins to 
sugar on the sides, and pour quickly into buttered tins. When almost 
cool, mark in squares. MRS. CHARLES E. NOBLIT 

OPERA CREAMS 

2 squares Baker's chocolate % cup milk 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

cups light brown sugar 1 teaspoon butter 



Grate chocolate, add sugar and milk. Cook slowly until mixture is 
smooth and boil for about a minute, or until a soft ball is formed in cold 
water. Remove from stove, add vanilla and butter and beat until hard 
enough to form. Drop from a teaspoon upon waxed paper. 

MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 



234 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 cup sugar a /2 cup cream 

1 cup New Orleans molasses Butter the size of a walnut 

1/4 cake chocolate (Vs pound) 1 teaspoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil until it hardens in cold water and stir all you wish. After boil- 
ing, add vinegar and vanilla. 

I like brown sugar in candy, but granulated will do in caramels. 

MRS. LEWIS F. SHOEMAKER 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1/2 pound Baker's chocolate 4 cups brown sugar 

Vi pound butter 1 cup milk 

1*4 cups New Orleans molasses Vanilla extract to taste 

After boiling 20 minutes, stirring frequently, try in ice water till 
strings are brittle. These are delicious. MRS. EDWARD F. KINGSLEY 

CARAMELS 

l /4 pound Baker's chocolate 1 cup molasses 

% pound brown sugar 1 cup milk 

Vi pound butter 1 tablespoon vanilla extract 

MRS. EFFINGHAM PEROT 

CANDIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL 

Cut peel into strips and soak for 48 hours, changing water three or 
four times. Cover with fresh cold water and boil 4 hours, changing water 
once. Then drain and weigh, taking equal parts of peel and granulated 
sugar, and put on the fire again without adding water, and boil until all 
the syrup is absorbed. While still warm roll in granulated sugar. 

MRS. J. HOWARD GASKILL 

CONSERVED GRAPEFRUIT RIND 

Use the rind only. Cut in pieces the size of a section of an orange. 
Boil these 20 minutes in water. Drain them. Put back in the kettle, 
as follows: A layer of the rind and a layer of sugar. Boil these until 
they are clear (about 8 or 10 minutes). Then drain again. Put them in 
a self -sealing jar. When you wish to use them, roll in sugar. 

This I can vouch for, as it is one of Sophie's recipes. 

MRS. JAMES B. THOMAS 



We drink this health to you. PERICLES. 



(235) 



PURE GRAPE JUICE 

10 pounds Concord grapes 2 quarts water 

5 cups sugar 

Pick grapes off stem and wash; place them in kettle with water and 
boil until skins are well broken. Take off and drain, then press the skins 
until juice is all extracted. Return juice to kettle with sugar and boil 
until sugar is dissolved, skimming off anything that rises to the surface. 
Bottle and seal while hot. If not sweet enough to suit taste, more sugar 
can be added. 

MRS. E. BOYD WEITZEL 



GRAPE JUICE 

3 quarts Concord grapes 1 quart water 

Sugar 

Stem and wash grapes before measuring. Heat thoroughly and 
Strain. To 1 quart of juice add 1 cup of sugar. Use small cup if grapes 
are very sweet. Let juice and sugar come to a boil, then bottle and seal 
with wax. 

MRS. EDWIN F. KEEN 



MISS SALLY WHEELER JOHNSON'S LEMONADE 

(This recipe is always used at the Meetings of the Site and Relic Society 

of Germantown) 

5 dozen lemons 1 pineapple (cut in fine slices or 
10 pounds granulated sugar small pieces) 

l /2 dozen oranges (sliced with the peel or 

left on), or 1 box strawberries (in season) 

Dissolve the sugar in boiling water some hours before wanted; stir 
thoroughly, putting in some of the lemon peel cut very thin. Add the 
lemon juice when cool, and the fruit and ice when ready to serve. Do not 
put all the syrup in the lemon juice at once, as it may be too sweet if 
lemons are not ripe and juicy. 

The fruit can be used to suit individual taste, one or more kinds used 
at a time, as preferred. 

Miss ANNA M. JOHNSON 

(237) 



238 NEW CENTURY CLUB 

TEMPERANCE PUNCH 

6 oranges 1 bottle white grape juice 

2 lemons 2 bottles ginger ale 

1 teaspoon crushed mint Sugar 

Mix the juice of oranges and lemons in bowl with crushed mint (or 
a bunch of mint). Put juice in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add 
grape juice; sugar to taste. Before serving, add ginger ale. Serve with 
strawberry or small squares of pineapple in glass. As the ice melts add 
more ginger ale. If the punch is not sweet enough add more sugar. 

(Warranted to put no one under the table.) 

Miss ANNE HOLLINGSWORTH WHARTON 



GRAPE JUICE 

Secure good juicy grapes (preferably the Concord), pick and stem 
them, place in a preserving kettle and barely cover with water. Boil 
until tender, then mash and strain. To every gallon of juice add 1 cup 
of granulated sugar. Return to the fire and let boil for 3 minutes and 
then place in bottles and seal. Drink with pleasure. 

MRS. THOMAS BIDDLE ELLIS 



BLACKBERRY BRANDY 

(Recommended in case of sickness) 

2 quarts blackberry juice 1 ounce powdered cinnamon 

1 quart brandy 1 ounce powdered nutmeg 

2 pounds soft white sugar 1 ounce powdered cloves 

1 ounce powdered allspice 

Boil the juice with the sugar and the spices for 15 minutes. Take 
from the fire and add the brandy. When cold, strain, bottle and seal. 
The spices should be placed in a bag, in order not to discolor the juice. 

MRS. SARAH WALKER DUNCAN 

RECETTE DE TALLEYRAND POUR LE CAFE 

Noir comme le diable Pur comme un ange 

Chaud comme 1'enfer Doux comme 1' amour 

MRS. H. S. PRENTISS NICHOLS 



BOOK OF RECIPES 239 

DANDELION WINE 

4 quarts dandelion blossoms (without 2 lemons 

stems) 4 quarts lukewarm water 

4 oranges Sugar 

Yeast cake 

Stand the water and dandelions, thin peel of lemons and oranges, 
60 hours. Squeeze out and strain. Put 4 pounds of sugar to every gal- 
lon of above. (In the meantime you have taken the peeled oranges and 
lemons and rolled in oiled paper to keep them over the 60 hours.) Cut 
oranges and lemons up fine and to every gallon put a broken-up yeast 
cake and the sugar, oranges and lemons and let stand 36 hours. Strain 
and bottle, leaving corks off until done fermenting. 

MRS. HARRY A. HORNOR 

ORANGE CORDIAL 

36 oranges 1 gallon water 

1 gallon rectified alcohol White sugar 

Use the skins of the oranges, peeling very thin. Put in a large jar 
or vessel and pour on alcohol and water. Cook and let stand for 7 weeks, 
stirring or shaking thoroughly every day. Strain and measure the juice, 
and to each quart of liquid add the syrup made from boiling 1 pound 
of white sugar, to which a little water has been added. Add the syrup 
hot, then bottle and cork. 

Miss JEAN A. FLANIGEN 



Some hae meat that canna eat, 

And some would eat that want it ; 
But we hae meat, and we can eat, 

Sae let the Lord be thankit. 

ROBERT BURNS 



(240) 



ittbex 



PAGE 



Bath Bread 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 
Batter Bread or Corn Pone 

Mrs. Elmore C. Him 
Bedford Rolls 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 
Biscuits, Ellen's 

Mrs. C. L. Peirce 
Bread 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Bread Cakes 

Miss Helen A . Childs 
Breakfast Biscuits 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Breakfast Muffins 

Mrs. William P. Potter 
Brown Bread, Steamed 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 
Buckwheat Cakes 

Miss G. B. McIUienny 
Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 
Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 

Miss Helen Lippincott 
Christmas Bread (Mary R. Heygate- 
Hall's Recipe) 

Miss Anna Heygate-Hall 
Cinnamon Bun 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 
Cinnamon Bun 

Miss A bby A . Sutherland 
Corn Bread, My Grandmother's 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Cornmeal Griddle Cakes 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 

16 



22 



Cream Muffins, Mrs. Charles D. B. 



PAGE 



Barney's 26 

21 Miss Mary Janney 

Dinner or Lunch Rolls, Anna's 24 

23 Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

Dutch Cake 20 

25 Mrs. George H. Vanderbeck 

Flume House Flannel Cakes 31 

17 Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 

French Waffles 32 

22 Miss Emma R. Jack 

Gems 27 

24 Mrs. William P. Elwett 

Graham Bread 20 

27 Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 

Graham Bread 20 

21 Mrs. H. H. White 

Graham Bread 21 

30 Mrs. A. W. Robinson 

Graham Gems 27 

30 Miss Virginia Hartshorne 

Griddle Cakes 29 

30 Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 

Milk Biscuit 25 

Mrs. Isaac H. Clothier 

22 Nut Bread 17 

Miss Gertrude A. Barrett 

28 Nut Bread 17 

Mrs. Mary C. D. Geisler 

29 Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 

21 Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 

31 Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth 
(241) 



242 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Nut Bread 18 

Mrs. A bner H. Mershon 
Nut Bread 19 

Mrs. John I. McGuigan 
Old-Fashioned Buckwheat Cakes. ... 30 

Mrs. Eugene H. Aiistin 
Old-Fashioned Dutch Cake 19 

Mrs. Henry Delaplaine 
Old-Fashioned Muffins 26 

Miss Emily Campbell 
Plain Muffins 25 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Cottier 
Popovers 26 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
'jueen Muffins 26 

Mrs. William A. Wiederseim 
Quick Nut Bread 19 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 
Sally Lunn 27 

Miss Lida Paull Fife 
Sally Lunn 28 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 



PAGE 

"Schecken" 31 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 
Scotch Short Bread 22 

Mrs. A. Gallatin Talbott 
Spanish Bun 29 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Spoon Bread 23 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutsc'nler 
Spoon Bread 23 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 
Sweet Potato Biscuit 25 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 
Tea Rolls 24 

Mrs. William Burnham 
Virginia Sally Lunn 28 

Miss Mary Janney 
Virginia Spoon Bread 23 

Mrs. Charles H. Guilbert 
Waffles 32 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Waffles 32 

Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 



Beef Soup 39 

Mrs. Samuel Scomlle, Jr. 
Bisque of Clam, Caroline's 37 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Black Bean Soup 38 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 
Chicken Jelly 39 

Mary Effingham Perot 
Clam Puree 36 

Mrs. C. P. Turner 
Clam Soup 37 

Mrs. C. L. Peirce 
Fish Chowder 40 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Mock Bisque Soup 37 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Mutton Broth, Mother's 38 

Mrs. John Gribbel 
Onion Soup 35 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 
Onion Soup 35 

Mrs. Edward L. Reynolds 



Onion Soup with Cheese (Italian) . ^ 36 

Mrs. William B. Campbell 
Palatable Summer Soup 39 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 
Peanut Soup 39 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 
Rabbit Soup 41 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Soup a la Reine 40 

Mrs. A. Gallatin Talbott 
Spinach Soup 36 

The Misses Esherick 
Spinach Soup 36 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit . 
Soup Dumplings 40 

Mrs. Edward Webster 
Tomato Soup 35 

Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 
Tomato Soup 35 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
White House Bouillon 38 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



INDEX 



243 



PAGE 

Clam Roast 53 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Clams, Deviled 53 

Mrs. H. G. Michener 
Clams, Deviled 53 

Mrs. Joshua Ash Pearson 
Coquilles 46 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Crabs, Deviled 50 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Crabs, Deviled Baltimore Style 49 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
Fish, Baked 45 

Miss Tirzah L. Nichols 
Fish, Scalloped 45 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Fish or Meat Souffle 1 46 

Mrs. Elmore C. Hine 
Lobster Chops 47 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 
Lobster a la Newburg 48 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Mackerel, Baked 46 

Miss Annie Heacock 
Oyster a la Thibault 52 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 
Oyster Loaf 53 

Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 



PAGE 

Oyster Short Cake 52 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 
Oysters, Baked Club Style 49 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Oysters, Browned 51 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Oysters, Pan-Broiled 50 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Oysters, Pickled 52 

Mrs. H. L. Way land 
Oysters, Scalloped 51 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 
Oysters on Crackers 49 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Poisson a la Creme 45 

Mary E. B. Perot 
Rhode Island Codfish Cakes 46 

Mrs. Frank Battles 
Salmon, Baked Canned 47 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Salmon Souffle 47 

Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 
Salmon Souffle" 47 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Terrapin 48 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 
Thibault Oysters 51 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 



jWeats! 



Beef a la Mode 61 

Miss Amelia R. Coale 
Beef Heart, to Roast with Sage and 

Onions 69 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Boudins 64 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Breaded Lamb Chops with Mush- 
room Sauce 63 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Brunswick Stew 59 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 



Calf's Head (Terrapin Style) 70 

The Misses Esherick 
Calf's Liver in a Chafing Dish 69 

Miss Virginia Hartshorne 
Canvas-Back Duck 72 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 
Chicken a la King 57 

From Literary Digest, March 27, 1915 
Chicken a la King 58 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Chicken Croquettes 58 

Miss Agnes Preston 



244 



INDEX 



PAGE 



Chicken Croquettes 59 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 
Chicken Croquettes 59 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Chicken, Jellied 61 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Chicken, Jellied 60 

Mrs. Henry Delaplaine 
Chicken Mousse 60 

Miss Mariana J. Steel 
Fresh Tongue 67 

Countess of Santa Eulalia 
Galantine 68 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 
Ham and Current Jelly 69 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 
Ham, Baked 65 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Ham, Baked Slice of 64 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 
Ham, Baked Slice of 64 

Miss Annie Heacock 
Hash 63 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Kidney Stew, a Quick 67 

Miss Gertrude A . Barrett 
Kidney, Stewed 68 

Mrs. J. Nicholas Mitchell 
Kidney, Stewed 68 

Mrs. William A . Flanigen 
Mexican Ham 66 

Mrs. Samuel Bispham Bowen 
Mexican Tongue 66 

Mrs. Samuel Bispham Bowen 
Mock Terrapin 71 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 



PAGE 

Mock Terrapin 72 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Sausage 66 

Mrs. Harry A. Hornor 

Sausage, Home-made Country 66 

Mrs. Henry C. Mcllvaine 
Sausage Roll 65 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Savory Meat 63 

Mrs. Alfred Percival Smith 
Spanish Stew, A 62 

Miss Agnes Repplier 
Stuffing for Chicken 58 

Mrs. William A. Flanigen 
Swedish Hamburg Steak 63 

Mrs. W. F. Taft 
Sweetbreads 72 

Miss Caroline C. Hoffman 
Sweetbreads, Baked 70 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 
Sweetbreads, Baked 71 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
To Serve With Meat and Fish 73 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
To Stew a Duck With Chestnuts ... 71 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Turkey, Boned 62 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Veal, A Digestible Way of Preparing . 65 

Miss Gertrude A. Barrett 
Veal, Fried 64 

Mrs. Alfred Percival Smith 
Wakefield Steak 61 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 



Bean Loaf with Bacon Curls 82 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Celery Siena Style 80 

Miss Sarah C. Sower 
Corn, Canned 78 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 



Corn Fritters 78 

Mrs. Isaac H. Clothier 
Corn Fritters 79 

Miss Clara Comegys 
Cora Pudding 79 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 



INDEX 



245 



PAGE 

Egg Plant, Baked 80 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Green Corn au Gratin with Sweet Red 

Peppers 78 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Green Corn Fritters 79 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Peppers, Stuffed 82 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Potato au Gratin 78 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Potato Fritters 77 

Mrs. Lucretia L. Blankenburg 
Potato Puff 77 

Mrs. John Gibson 



PAGE 

Potatoes, Scalloped 77 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 
Potatoes, Scalloped 73 

Mrs. Mary S. Johnson 
Rice Omelet 81 

Mrs. Grace S. Williams 
Spinach Pudding 81 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 
Sweet Potatoes 77 

Mrs. Samuel Semple 
To Boil Rice Southern Style 81 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Tomato a la Creole 79 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 



Cheese Balls 90 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 
Cheese Entree 87 

Mrs. William H. Hollar 
Cheese Entree 88 

Miss Seraph J. Deal 
Cheese Fondue 89 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit 
Cheese Fondue 89 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Cheese Fondue 89 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Cheese Ramekin 90 

Mrs. William A. Wiederseim 
Cheese Souffle 1 88 

Miss Anne Hollingsworth Wharton 
Cheese Souffl< 88 

Miss Hilda Justice 
Cheese Souffle" 89 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Eggs au Gratin 86 

Mrs. William Showell Ellis 



Egg Chops, Palatable 87 

Miss Anna Johnson 

Egg Timbales 86 

Mrs. William R. Turner 
Mushrooms Sous Cloches (Under 

Glasses) 85 

Mrs. William R. Turner 
Omelette, Baked 87 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Sandwiches 86 

Mrs. Joseph Pettit 
Savory Cheese 90 

Mrs. William R. Turner 
Timbale 87 

Mrs. James A. Develin 
Tomato Cream Toast 86 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Welsh Rarebit 85 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Welsh Rarebit, A Digestible 85 

Miss Emma Blakiston 



Bordeaux Sauce 100 

Mrs. George McKeown 
Cantaloupe, Spiced 97 

Miss Amelia R. Coale 



Cherries, Pickled 95 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 
Chili Sauce 99 

Mrs. Richard Peters 



246 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Chili Sauce 99 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 
Chow Chow 100 

Mrs. William P. Worth 
Chow Chow 101 

Mrs. Mary Haines Kirby 
Chowder 102 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 
Cold Slaw Dressing 102 

Mrs. William P. El-well 
Corn Relish 102 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 
French Pickle 96 

Mrs. Henry T. Dechert 
French Sauce 98 

Miss Helen A. Childs 
Ginger Pears 96 

Mrs. William P. Worth 
Green Tomato Pickle 94 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 
Green Tomato Pickle 94 

Mrs. George L. Mitchell 
Green Tomato Pickles, Oyster Bay . . 95 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 
Mango Peaches 93 

Miss Anna L. Coale 
Meat Sauce 97 

Mrs. William P. Elwell 



PAGE 

Peaches, Pickled 94 

Mrs. Edwin F. Keen 
Pepper Hash 99 

Mrs. Richard Peters 
Pepper Sauce 100 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 
Piccalilli 101 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 
Spanish Pickle 95 

Mrs. Robert T. Boyd 
Sweet Cherry Pickle 96 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntire 
Sweet Peach Pickle 93 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
To Eat with Meats 101 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 
Tomato Catsup 97 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 
Tomato Catsup 97 

Mrs. Robert T. Boyd 
Tomato Catsup, My Grandmother's 98 

Miss Elizabeth A. Atkinson 
Tomatoes, Spiced 98 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 
Vegetable Chow Chow 103 

Alice Pusey Chambers 
Watermelon Pickle 96 

Mrs. Samuel S. Thompson 



Apple Salad 109 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 
Cheese 114 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Cherry Salad Ill 

Mrs. A. W. Robinson 
Cold Slaw 113 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 
Date and Apple Salad 110 

Mrs. H. H. White 
Easy Salad Dressing 113 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 
Fruit Salad 108 

Mrs. W, Duffield Robinson 



Fruit Salad 110 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Fruit Salad Dressing Ill 

Mrs. Alfred Marshall 
Lettuce and Tomato Salad 109 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
Mayonnaise 112 

Miss Edith Sellers Bunting 
Memphis Salad Dressing 112 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Mexican Salad 108 

Mrs. T. Elwood Potts 
Oil Mayonnaise for Salads 112 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 



INDEX 



247 



PAGE 

Pear and Pimento Salad 110 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 
Pineapple Salad Ill 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Potato Salad 107 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Potato Salad 107 

Mrs. Albert P. Brubaker 
Radish and Cheese Salad 108 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Russian Salad Dressing, Mrs. C. C. 

Converse's 113 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nir.hols 



PAGE 

Salad Dressing 112 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 

Salad Dressing without Oil 113 

Mrs. Isaac S. Lowry 

Spanish Salad 107 

Mrs. Henry B. Costill 

Tomato Jelly on Lettuce 114 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

White Grape Salad Ill 

Mrs. A. W. Robinson 



Apple Pudding 132 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 
Blackberry Pudding 134 

Miss Anna Johnson 
Bread Pudding 119 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 
Brown Betty 120 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Carrot Pudding 135 

Mrs. Henry C. Mcllvaine 
Carrot Pudding 135 

Mrs. John I. McGuigan 
Cheap Plum Pudding 123 

Mrs. William H. Tenbrook 
Chocolate Pudding 128 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Chocolate Pudding 128 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 
Chocolate Pudding 128 

Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 
Chocolate Pudding, Steamed 127 

Mrs. William She-well Ellis 
Chocolate Pudding, Steamed 129 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Cold Pudding Sauce 134 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox 
Date Pudding 125 

Mrs. Walter T. Baird 
Delightful Pudding 134 

Miss Hilda Justice 



English Plum Pudding 122 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 
English Plum Pudding 121 

Mrs. Alfred Mellor 
English Plum Pudding 120 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Fig Pudding 125 

Miss L. Ray Balder s ton 
Fig Pudding 125 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Fig Pudding 126 

Miss Anna L. Coale 
Fruit Pudding 132 

Mrs. Hugh Mcllvain 
Graham Pudding 126 

Mrs. W. F. Taft 
Graham Pudding 126 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Graham Pudding 127 

The Misses Longstreth 
Honeycomb Pudding 132 

Miss Mary S. Johnson 
Hot Pudding Sauce 127 

The Misses Longstreth 
Huckleberry Pudding 133 

Mrs. Thomas J. Garland 
Huckleberry Pudding 133 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Huckleberry Pudding 134 

Mrs, Samuel S, Thompson 



248 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Indian Pudding 129 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Innocent Pudding 131 

Miss Emily Campbell 
Jerusalem Pudding 120 

Mrs. Joseph Warner Swain 
John's Delight 123 

Mrs. William Burnham 
John's Delight 124 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 
John's Delight 124 

Miss Emma Klahr 
"Judge Peters" 120 

Mrs. Joseph Warner Swain 
Lemon Cream Pudding 133 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 
Marshmallow Pudding 130 

Miss Mary Massey 
Oatmeal Pudding 129 

Mrs. C. Shillard-Smith 
Ocean Queen Pudding 124 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 
Orange Pudding 135 

Miss Henrietta W. Pearsall 
Pineapple Pudding 127 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 
Pink Pudding 119 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Plum Pudding. . . '. 121 

Mrs. William P. Elwett 
Plum Pudding 122 

.Mrs. C. P. Turner 



PAGE 

Plum Pudding 122 

Miss Anne Hey gate-Hall 
Plum Pudding 123 

Mrs. William Burnham 
Prune Pudding 125 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Pudding Blanc d'CEufs et Caramel. . 119 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Puff Pudding 131 

Mrs. John Gribbel 

Rhode Island Rice Pudding 118 

Mrs. Frank Battles 

Rice Pudding 118 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 
Ripe Gooseberry Pudding 136 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Royal Iced Cabinet Pudding 117 

Mrs. Cornelius Stevenson 
Snow Pudding 121 

Miss L. Ray Balderston 
Sponge Pudding 129 

The Misses Longstreth 
Sponge Pudding 130 

Miss Maude G. Hopkins 
Sponge Pudding 131 

Mrs. Mary T. Lewis Gannett 
Tapioca Pudding 118 

The Misses Longstreth 
Turkish Pudding 126 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 



Banbury Tarts, Aunt Abby's 146 

Mrs. Edwin Martin 
Boston Cream Pie 145 

Mrs. Louis H. Mutschler 
Butter Scotch Pie 147 

The Misses Longstreth 
Caramel Custard 147 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox 
Cheese Cake Pie 144 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 



Cheese Cake Pie 144 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 
Cheese Cake Pie 146 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntire 
Cheese Cake Pie . . , 146 

Miss Helen A. Childs 
Cherry Pot Pie 147 

Miss Matilda Baird 
Cocoanut Pudding (Pie) 149 

Mrs. T. William Kimber 



INDEX 



249 



PAGE 

Cream Pie 143 

Miss Helen Lippincott 
English Mince Meat 143 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 
Filling for Banbury Tarts 147 

Miss Jean A. Flanigen 
Florida Cream Pie 145 

Mrs. Grace S, Williams 
Lemon Custard Pie 141 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Lemon for Tarts 148 

Mrs. Thomas Theodore Watson 
Lemon Meringue Pie 139 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Lemon Meringue Pie 140 

Mrs. George McKeown 
Lemon Pie, Our Favorite 140 

Mrs. Lewis R. Dick 
Lemon Pie 140 

Mrs. William Burnham 
Lemon Pie 141 

Mrs. Edward H. Bonsall 
Marlborough Pie 139 

Mrs. Edward L. Reynolds 



PAGE 

Maryland Lemon Pie 141 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 
Mince Meat 144 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 
Mince Meat 144 

Mrs. Thomas J. Garland 
Mince Meat 143 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Orange or Lemon Pie 141 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 
Peach Tart 148 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Pennsylvania Apple Pie 139 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Pie Crust, Plain 148 

Mrs. Thomas Shallcross 
Potato Pudding Pie 149 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood 
Pumpkin Pie 142 

Mrs. George L. Mitchell 
Pumpkin Pie 142 

Mrs. Joshua Ash Pearson 
Pumpkin Pie 142 

Miss Agnes Preston 



Apples, Coddled 153 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Apple Cream 153 

Mrs. Samuel S. Thompson 
Apples on the Half Shell 153 

Mrs. Henry Safford Hale 
Baked Bananas 154 

Mrs. Franklin Baker, Jr. 
Baltimore Float 153 

Mrs. Charles MacLellan Town 
Brown Betty 154 

Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Caramel Cream 157 

Mrs. Arthur Falkenau 
Caramel Custard 156 

Mrs. Franklin Baker, Jr. 
Charlotte Russe 157 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 



Charlotte Russe 157 

Miss Jennie S. Potts 

Charlotte Russe 158 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 160 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 

Chocolate Sponge 159 

Miss Helen Lippincott 

Chocolate Whip 160 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 

Coffee Custard 156 

Mrs. Charles A. Longstreth 

Coffee Custard 156 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 

Dessert, an Italian 160 

Mrs. Henry C, Mcllvaine 



250 



INDEX 



Dessert, Queen Victoria's Favorite. . 

Mrs. Edmund Webster 
Italian Cream 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Jelly, Uncooked Quickly Made 

Mrs. Samuel P. Wetherill 
Lemon Butter 

Mrs. Mary T. Nichols 
Orange Loaf 

Mrs. Alfred Marshall 
Peach or Strawberry Short Cake .... 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 



PAGE 

159 
159 
159 
160 
155 
155 



PAGE 

Prune Souffle 155 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Spanish Cream 158 

Miss Mary S. Parry 
Spanish Cream 158 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Souffle" of Rice 155 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 
Strawberry Tapioca 154 

Miss Henrietta W. Pearsall 
Velvet Creahi 158 

Mrs. Richard Peters 



Sees; 



Apple Frappe 165 

Miss Clara Comegys 
Frozen Custard 164 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 
Lemon Ice 163 

Mrs. Matthew James Crier 
Lemon Ice Cream, Old-Fashioned . . . 163 

Miss Emma R. Jack 
Lemon Sherbet 163 

Mrs. Edward "L. Reynolds 
Maple Frappe 165 

Mrs. Thomas Raeburn White 



Marshmallow Cream, Frozen 165 

Mrs. Alexander Patton 

Orange Mousse 164 

Miss Agnes Preston 

Orange Mousse 163 

Mrs. Charles F. Godshall 

Peach Delight 164 

Miss Agnes Preston 

Pineapple Ice 164 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 



Jfrmt* 



Cherries, Kimballed 170 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 
Cherries (Preserved Uncooked) 169 

Miss Anna L. Coale 

Ginger Pears 172 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 

Grape Conserve 170 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth 

Grape, Spiced 170 

Mrs. T. William Kimber 

Peaches, Brandied 173 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



-Canneb 

Peaches, Spiced 171 

Mrs. Charles H. Guilbert 
Pear Chips 172 

Mrs. Samuel Scoville, Jr. 

Pears, Chipped 172 

Mrs.T. William Kimber 
Persian Plum . 171 

Miss Anne Hey gate-Hall 
Pineapple, to Preserve without Cook- 

'ing 169 

Mrs. A. W. Robinson 
Plum Conserve 170 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 



INDEX 



251 



PAGE 



Rhubarb Preserve 169 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Strawberries, Sun-Preserved 169 

Mrs. Morgan Bunting 



PAGE 



Watermelon Rind, Spiced 171 

Mrs. E. B. Waples 
Watermelon Rind, Spiced 172 

Mrs. Allen R. Mitchell 



fellies 



Amber Marmalade 181 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Apricot Marmalade 181 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntire 
Calf's Foot Jelly 177 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 
Conserve, Delicious 182 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
C. O. R. R. Jelly 178 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Crabapple Jelly, Spiced 178 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Cranberry Jelly 178 

Miss G. B. Mcllhenny 
Currant Jelly 177 

Mrs. II. S. Prentiss Nichols 
Grape Jam 178 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Grapefruit Marmalade 180 

Mrs. A bner H. Mershon 



Heavenly Jam 179 

Mrs. Henry P. Cos till 
Heavenly Jam 179 

Mrs. Spencer Kennard Mulford 
Marmalade 180 

Mrs. James A. Dkvelin 
Mint Jelly 178 

Mrs. J. Howard Gaskill 
Orange Marmalade 180 

Miss Annie Heacock 
Orange Marmalade 180 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Orange Marmalade 179 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Orange Marmalade 179 

Mrs. Henry C. Mcllvaine 
Plum Compote . 181 

Mrs. W. Duffield Robinson 
Rhubarb Marmalade 181 

Miss Sarah C. Sower 



Cafce 



Ames Cake 224 

Miss Florence E. Taylor 
Angel Cake 225 

Mrs. Edwin B. Newcomer 
Angel Food 226 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Apple Sauce Cake 214 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Apple Sauce Cake 214 

Mrs. William Simpson, Jr. 
Bi-Metallic Cake 218 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 
Black Cake 222 

Mrs. Hugh Mcllvain 



Boston Pound Cake 215 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 
Boston White Cake 203 

Mrs. Frank Battles 
Brown Cake 221 

Mrs. Allen R. Mitchell 
Brown Christmas Cookies (German). 212 

Mrs. William C. Lowry 
Bowl, Cup and Spoon Cake 219 

Mrs. H. H. White 
Burgess Cake 224 

Mrs. Harry G. Michener 
Cake, Delicious Plain 225 

Miss Lida Paull Fife 



252 



INDEX 



PAGE 



Cake, Eggless 202 

Mrs. Matthew James Crier 
Cake, Eggless, Butterless, Milkless. . 202 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 
Cake, Eggless, Butterless, Milkless. . 202 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 
Cakes, Fried 220 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Cake, Good Plain (Philadelphia Cook- 
ing School) 226 

Mrs. John J. McCuigan 
Cake, One-Egg 220 

Mrs. Alfred Marshall 
Caramel Icing 22? 

Mrs. Walter C. Mclntyre 
Chester County Cookies 213 

Mrs. Edmund, Webster 
Chocolate Brownies 195 

Mrs. Charles Z. Tryon 
Chocolate Cake 192 

Mrs. Abner H. Mershon 
Chocolate Cake 194 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Chocolate Cake 194 

Miss Jennie S. Potts 
Chocolate Cake 194 

Mrs. William S. Pilling 
Chocolate Cake 195 

Mrs. Ed-ward H. Bonsall 
Chocolate Cake 195 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 
Chocolate Caramel Balls 227 

Mrs. J. Howard Marshall 
Chocolate Layer Cake 193 

Mrs. C. Wilmer Middleton 
Chocolate Layer Cake 193 

Miss Elizabeth Bunting Collier 
Chocolate Nut Frosting 228 

Mrs. Frank H. Burpee 
Christmas Cakes, Little 214 

Mrs. Frederick J. McWade 
Christmas Ginger Cakes 198 

Mrs. Mary C. D. Geisler 
Cinnamon Buns 207 

Mrs. John C. Seltzer 
Cinnamon Bun, Marion Fleck's 207 

Miss Emma Klahr 



PAGE 



Cinnamon Nut Cakes 210 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Cinnamon Rings 209 

Mrs. William A . Flanigen 
Cocoanut Pound Cake 216 

Mrs. Hugh Mcllvain 
Coffee Cake 205 

Mrs. Richard Peters 
Coffee Cake 205 

Mrs. John H. Jopson 
Coffee Spice Cake 205 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Composition Cake 220 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Cookies without Eggs 203 

Mrs. Caleb S. Middleton 
Cream Sponge Cake 190 

Mrs. Charles H. Woolley 
Crullers 208 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Crullers. 208 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Crullers 208 

Mrs. Charles F. Godshall 
Crullers, Aunt Sarah's 208 

Dr. Frances N. Baker 
Devil Cake 217 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Doughnuts 209 

Mrs. Eugene H. Austin 
Doughnuts 209 

Mrs. George H. Vanderbeck 
Doughnuts 210 

Mrs. S. Bernard Chambers 
English Cake 224 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood 
English Christmas Cakes 213 

Mrs. Charles D. Cox 
Favorite Cake 217 

Mrs. Walter T. Baird 
French Cookies 213 

Mrs. William B. Campbell 
Fruit Cake 1 85 

Mrs. Fred W. Taylor 
Fruit Cake 188 

Mrs. Livingston E. Jones 



INDEX 



253 



PAGE 

Fruit Cake 188 

Mrs. Aimer H. Mershon 
Fruit Cake 187 

Countess of Santa Eulalia 
Fruit Cake 186 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Fruit Cake 186 

Mrs. C. Shillard- Smith 
Fruit Cake, an Excellent Substitute 

for Real 189 

Mrs. James B. Thomas 
Fruit Cake, Mrs. S. Rhine's 187 

Mrs. Thomas Shalcross 
Fruit Cake, My 188 

Mrs. H. L. Wayland 
Fruit Cookies 4 189 

Mrs. Grace S. Williams 
Ginger Bread 197 

Mrs. J. Nicholas Mitchell 
Ginger Bread 197 

Mrs. Matthew James Crier 
Ginger Bread 197 

Mrs. E. Boyd Weitzel 
Ginger Bread 196 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Ginger Bread, Good Soft 196 

Miss Mary Janney 
Gingerbreads, Mother's Hard 197 

Mrs. Effingham Perot 
Ginger Bread, Soft . 196 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 
Ginger Cakes 196 

Mrs. George S. Matlack 
Ginger Cakes, Soft 198 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Ginger Pound Cake 198 

Mrs. Lewis M. Johnson 
Ginger Snaps 199 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Ginger Snaps 199 

Mrs. Kate H. Rowland 
Ginger Snaps, or Molasses Snaps .... 199 

Mrs. C. L. Phitchinson 
Hermits 227 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 
Hickory Nut Kisses 211 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 



PAGE 



Icing for Cake, a Good 228 

Mrs. Charles H. Woolley 
' ' Idlewild ' ' Celebrated Sponge Cake . 191 

Miss Mary Janney 
Irish Tea Cake 206 

Mrs. Alexander E. Patton 
Jam Cake 220 

Mrs. H. J. Kaltenthaler 
Jumbles 209 

Miss Anna S. Eckfeldt 
Jumbles 210 

Mrs. C. L. Peirce 
Kisses 227 

Mrs. John D. Mcllhenny 
Lace Cakes 219 

Mrs. William H. Hollar 
Lady Baltimore Cake 217 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Lady Cake, Small 221 

Mrs. Newton E. Wood 
Mandelbrodchen 228 

Mrs. John L. Appleton 
Marble Cake 204 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
Mocha Tarb (Cake) 222 

Mrs. Henry P. Brown 
Mock Lady Baltimore Cake 218 

Mrs. Laura Chandler Booth 
New Amsterdam Molasses Cake 223 

Mrs. John Gribbel 
Nut Cake, Mrs. Edith C. James' 211 

Mrs. William Shewell Ellis 
Nut Cookies 211 

Miss Mary S. Parry 
Nut Oatmeal Cookies 201 

Mrs. William Wallace 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Miss Agnes Preston 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Miss Elizabeth A. Atkinson 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Mrs. George McKeown 
Oatmeal Cookies 200 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 
Oatmeal Cookies 201 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 



254 



INDEX 



PAGE 



Oatmeal Macaroons 201 

Mrs. Frederick L. Seeger 
Orange Cake 185 

Mrs. Robert Beattie 
Orange Cake 215 

Mrs. Charles Z. Tryon 
Orange Cake 216 

Mrs. Robert P. Brown 
Orange Shortcake 216 

Mrs. H. L. Barnes 

Pecan Wafers 212 

Mrs. Edward Wetherill 
Pound Cake 215 

Mrs. Mahlon B. Paxson 
"Riz"Cake 219 

Mrs. Isaac S. Lowry 
"Rocks" 226 

Miss Anne Hey gate-Hall 
Sand Tarts 228 

Mrs. Harrison Souder 
Sand Tarts 227 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Silver Cake 221 

Mrs. Andrew M. Eastwick 
Scotch Cakes 217 

Miss Matilda Baird 

"Scripture Cake" 222 

Mrs. George F. Klemm 
Scottish Fancies : 201 

Mrs. William S. Pilling 
Spice Cake 204 

Miss Sarah Sellers Bunting 
Spice Cake 205 

Mrs. J. Howard Marshall 

Spice Cake, an Eggless 203 

Mrs. Lewis R. Dick 

Spice Cookies 204 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Sponge Cake 189 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Richardson 
Sponge Cakes 190 

Mrs. George S. Matlack 



PAGE 

Sponge Cake 190 

Mrs. William S. Pitting 
Sponge Cake 191 

Mrs. Henry T. Dechert 
Sponge Cake 191 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 
Sponge Cake 19^ 

Miss Edith Sellers Bunting 
Sponge Cake 192 

Miss Maude G. Hopkins 
Sponge Cake 192 

Miss Sarah Sellers Bunting 
Sponge Cake 193 

Mrs. John Gibson 
Sponge Cake, Never-Failing 190 

Mrs. Charles Reynolds Simons 
Sponge Ginger Bread 198 

Mrs. James Mapes Dodge 
Swedish Cookies 214 

Mrs. Caleb J. Milne, Jr. 

Swiss Loaf Cake 219 

Mrs. Caleb S. Middleton 
Sugar Cake 225 

Mrs. Wilbur F. Litch 
Taylor Cakes 225 

Miss Annie Heacock 
Tea Cake 206 

Mrs. Harrison Souder 
Tea Cake 206 

Mrs. Theron I. Crane 
Walnut Wafers 211 

Miss Clara Lee Bowman 
Walnut Wafers 212 

Mrs. Thomas Theodore Watson 
White Cake 202 

Miss Mary L. Roberts 
White Cake 203 

Mrs. Matthew James Grier 
White Flaked Rice Cakes 224 

Mrs. Leon S. Dexter 

Zollicoffer or Tutti Frutti Cake 223 

Mrs. Josephine L. Adams 



INDEX 



255 



Canbtes 



PAGE 



Brook Grove Fudge 233 

Miss Alary Janney 
Caramels 234 

Mrs. Effingham Perot 
Chocolate Caramels 234 

Mrs. Lewis F. Shoemaker 
Chocolate Caramels 234 

Mrs. Edward F. Kingsley 
Chocolate Fudge 232 

Mrs. C. L. Hutchinson 
Fruit Fudge 233 

Mrs. Charles E. Noblit 
Fudge 232 

The Misses Longstreth 
Fudge 232 

Mrs. H. G. Michener 
Grapefruit Peel, Candied 234 

Mrs. J. Howard Caskill 



PAGE 

Grapefruit Rind, Conserved 234 

Mrs. James B. Thomas 

Marshmallow Fudge 233 

Miss Mary Craig Peacock 

Nut Candy 23 1 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 

Nut Chocolates -. 23 1 

Miss Alice Pusey Chambers* 

Opera Creams 233 

Mrs. Martha P. Falconer 

Sea Foam ' 23 1 

Mrs. Daniel R. Harper 

Taffy 232 

Mrs. J. Gibson Mcllvain 
Walnut Candy 23 1 

Mrs. Edwin B. Newcomer 



Blackberry Brandy 238 

Mrs. Sarah Walker Dungan 
Dandelion Wine 239 

Mrs. Harry A . Hornor 
Grape Juice 237 

Mrs. Edwin F. Keen 
Grape Juice 238 

Mrs. Thomas Biddle Ellis 
Grape Juice, Pure 237 

Mrs. E. Boyd Weitzel 



Lemonade, Miss Sally Wheeler John- 
son's 237 

Miss Anna M. Johnson 

Orange Cordial 239 

Miss Jean A . Flanigen 

Recette de Talleyrand pour le Cafe". 238 
Mrs. H. S. Prentiss Nichols 

Temperance Punch 238 

Miss Anne Hollingsworth Wharton 



