TX 663 
.C38 
1915 
Copy 1 



•INCINNATl PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



Domestic Science 



DEPARTMENT. 



Course of Study 



f 19151 




d ._ 
-"^S"? 




CINCINNATI. PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 3)^>«fiW 
Course 



in 



Domestic Science 



c^fe 




SEPTEMBER, 1915 



January, 1915. 5JM. 



CONTENTS 






\^\5 



Matter: Its Nature and Change. 3 
Food in its Relation to Life.. 3 

Dust and Dirt 4 

Methods of Cooking and Meas- 
uring 5, 6 

Dish Washing 6 

Table Service 7 

Fire and Fire Building 9 

Water 10 

Beverages 10 

Fruit 11 

Potatoes . .■ 12 

Vegetables 14 

Cereals 15 

Stale Bread 16 

Milk 17 

Milk Soups. White Sauce 18 

Salad ; 20 

Cheese 21 

Macaroni 22 

Eggs 23 



Eggs and Milk 26 

Sugar 26 

Meat and Soups 28-30 

Salt Meats 33 

Fish 33 

Oysters 35 

Scalloped Dishes 36 

Croquettes 37 

Flour 38 

Pour Batters 39 

Batters lightened with Gas..., 40 
Batters lightened with Gas and 

Eggs 42 

Doughs with Baking Powder.. 43 

Doughs with Yeasts 44 

Cakes 46 

Pastry 48 

Gelatine Desserts 48 

Frozen Desserts 49 

Invalid Cookery 50 

Preserving 51 






Course of Study 



MATTER: ITS NATURE AND CHANGES. 

Many substances that we are familiar with undergo changes. The 
burning candles change from an opaque solid to a translucent liquid. Salt, 
being mixed with water, becomes a clear liquid not distinguishable from 
water itself. Heat changes ice into water and water into steam. 

The burning of wood, which is the uniting of the solid carbon of the 
wood with the gas, oxygen, form a gas carbon dioxide, which is quite 
different from oxygen. When the action is over, a handful of gray ashes 
is all of the solid substance left. 

Some of these changes are only a change in the form of matter. The 
liquid candle grease will return to solid form when cooled; dissolved salt 
may be recovered by evaporating the water ; steam may be collected and 
condensed into form of water again. These are called physical changes. 
That part of the melted candle which was burnt will not return to its 
original form. Burnt sugar will never be sweet and white again. The 
ashes can not be changed into wood. These changes are changes in the 
composition of matter, and are called chentical changes. 

Elements and Compounds: — Some substances consist of but one thing, 
hence are called simple, such as iron, 'oxygen and carbon. A simple sub- 
stance is called an element. 

Some substances are composed of two or more elements, as water 
What two elements make up water? .A substance composed of two or 
more elements is called a compound. 

In a mLvture each substance keeps its own properties ; in a compound 
these give place to new properties belonging to the compound. 

The most common elements are: 

1. Oxygen, an invisible, odorless gas which unites very readily with 
other elements to form compounds. The uniting of oxygen with other 
elements is called oxidation. Example: iron rust. 

2. Hydrogen is an invisible gas. It will burn and unites with oxygen 
to form water. 

3. Nitrogen is an invisible, incombustible gas. It does not unite 
readily, and the compounds into which it enters break up easily. 

4. Carbon exists as an element in two forms — graphite, the "lead" 
in pencils, and the diamond. It enters into more compounds than any 
other element. It is contained in all organic substances, as is shown by 
their blackening (carbonizing) when heated. 

FOOD IN ITS RELATION TO LIFE. 

The body of the human being, like the bodies of most animals and 
plants, consists of organs or parts. The special work of each organ is 
called its function. What is the function of the eye? Of the lungs? Of 
the stomach? Of a leaf? 

The various kinds of material composing the organs of the body is 
called tissue, bony tissue being found in bones, nerve tissue in nerves, 
muscular tissue not only in muscles, but in the organs. 

The tissues of the bod|y are made up of cells. These cells may be 
likened to the cells in thg honeycomb or the bricks in the wall of a house. 

In the cells of the body many convpounds are found, most of them be- 
ing combinations of some or all of the following elements : carbon, hydro- 
gen, oxygen, nitrogen. It is estimated that oxygen forms two-thirds of 
the human body; hydrogen, one-eleventh; nitrogen, one thirty-ninth. 

Food. — Since our bodies are composed of the elements — carbon, hy- 
drogen, oxygen and nitrogen in different compounds — our foods to nourish 
the body, should contain the same elements. We find that food does con- 
tain these elements in various compounds. We divide the compounds into 
groups, called the five food principles — proteins, carbohydrates, fats, 
water, mineral matter. 



Ciiu-iiiiiafi Public ScJiools 



Foods. 



Organic. 



Inoraanit 



1) Protein or 
building. 



2) Carbo-hydrates or 
heat, fat and 
energy producing, 

3) Fat or heat 
producing. 



^ 4) Mineral matter 

bone forming. 
' 5) Water. 



Albumen. 
Casein. 
■{ Gelatin. 
Vegetable 
casein. 

t Sugar. 

I Starch. 

^ Vegetable. 

' Animal. 



Salt. 
Lime. 

Potash, etc 



Meat. 
Milk. 
Eggs. 
Fish. 
. Cheese. 



Proteins contain compounds of nitrogen, so are called nitrogenous 
foods. Proteins are absolutely necessary to life, as they are the only foods 
which can repair and build muscular and other tissue. Proteins are found 
in meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, peas, beans, lentils and grains. 

Carbohydrates are derived from vegetable sources, and include 
starches, sugars, cellulose and gums. They do not contain nitrogen. What 
do they contain? They yield heat and energy and may be changed into 
fat in the body. 

Fats and Oils yield heat to body, and probably help to form fatty 
tissue. They are obtained from both animal and vegetable sources. They 
are composed of carbon and hydrogen, with less oxygen than carbo- 
hydrates. 

Water constitutes about two-thirds to three-fourths by weight of the 
human body. Water is necessary to soften and dissolve the food; it car- 
ries food and dilutes the blood, helps to carry off waste material, and by 
evaporation, keeps the body at the normal temperature, 98° F. It also 
aids digestion and does important work in the body. It is composed of 
hydrogen and oxygen. We could not live without water. 

Mineral matter includes compounds of lime, potassium, sodium, iron, 
etc. Common salt, a kind of mineral matter familiar to all, is the only 
mineral added in pure form to our food. Mineral matter is necessary to 
life, to digestion, to the blood. It helps to form bones, hair, nails and 
teeth. The mineral matter of foods is supplied principally in juices of 
fresh meats, fish, fruits and vegetables, and some small amount of cereals 
and grains. 

DUST AND DIRT. 

Dirt is anything unclean. As commonly used, the word includes rem- 
nants of anything, clean or otherwise, left where they do not belong, as- 
sand, earthly particles, particles of wornout clothing, animal or vegetable 
refuse. Dirt may be wet or dry. 

Dust is always dry, and the particles of which it is composed are so 
fine and so light in weight that there is always mire or less of it floating 
in the air. Dust is made up of the same substance as dirt, only dried and 
ground exceedingly fine. It also includes tiny seeds capable of growth. 
Dust and dirt are always repulsive, because they mean disorder and care- 
lessness ; but when it is known that dust is usually accompanied by mil- 
lions of the tiniest plants it is possible to imagine, some of them known 
to be the cause of decay of animal and vegetable substances, while others 
cause dangerous diseases, like diphtheria, consumption, etc., it becomes a 
matter of great importance to dispose of dirt and dust in such a way that 
tnese plants are killed and so prevented from doing further harm. 

Dust Plants.—These tiny plants, so called because thev are frequently 
found m dust, may be classed in general under three heads": veasts, moulds, 
and bacteria. They are also called "germs" or "microbes."' Germ means 



Course of Study 5 

that form which something grows, and microbe means a "little, living 
thing." The yeasts cause the fermentation of "working" of preserves and 
other foods. These are wild or uncultivated yeast plants and are of sev- 
eral species, similar in their habits of growth to the yeast used in bread- 
making. 

■Moulds grow and multiply rapidly in warm, moist places and destroy 
food and clothing. Mildew is a form of mould. 

Bacteria. — The most important are the microscopic plants usually 
meant when germs are spoken of, some of which cause diseases; many are 
harmless; some are very useful and necessary. The scientific name of these 
plants is bacteria, a word which means "little rods." One is a bacterium 
two or more are bacteria. They are so named because many of them, when 
magnified many hundred times, are seen to be shaped like little rods or 
pencils. Bacteria are the smallest and simplest of known living things, 
each one being a simple cell, or exceeding small mass of living substance, 
or protoplasm — is soft, jelly-like, colorless and very nearly transparent 
and the cell wall is very thin. 

She — Bacteria are so small that they can not be seen without a power- 
ful microscope, which causes them to appear several hundred times larger 
than they really are. It would take from ten to fifty thousand of them, 
side by side, to equal an inch. 

Source — The home of many bacteria is in the upper layers of the earth, 
but, being so small, they are carried by the wind and rain and snow almost 
everywhere — in the air, in the water, in our food, on the bodies of men 
and animals, in their mouths, under the nails. 

Conditions for Grozutli. — Like any other living thing, bacteria require 
moisture. Many require heat, but not all, as some can grow at freezing 
temperature. Some require air ; others, very little. All multiply very 
rapidly under favorable conditions, one dividing into two, two into four, 
four into eight, and so on. This sometimes occurs as often as four times 
in twenty minutes, so, though exceedingly small, this rapid increase in 
numbers enables them to accomplish enormous results in a very short tiirie. 
As they grow, some kinds of bacteria throw out poisonous substance which 
cause dangerous diseases. For example, the germs of the disease, con- 
tained in the matter coughed up by consumptives, drying on the sidewalks, 
etc., may be carried by the dust to well persons. 

Bacteria can live and stay at rest a long time without food. Many 
forms of bacteria are harmless and some are very useful and necessary in 
many ways. As we can not readily tell the dangerous kind when present, 
we dispose of all dust and dirt by burning. Dark, damp places are most 
favorable for the growth of all germs, while fresh air and sunliglit are 
great disinfectants. 

METHODS OF COOKING. 

Three things are essentional to life — air, water, food. 
Food is whatever nourishes the body. Cooking is making food ready 
to eat. This is done chiefly by means of heat. 

Reason for Cooking. 
Food is cooked — 

1. To make it more attractive. 

2. To make it more palatable. 

3. To develop flavor. 

4. To make it more easily digested. 

5. To kill germs. 

Plant Foods. 

All plant foods undergo a kind of cooking by the heat of the sun, as 
do animal foods by the heat of the animal body. 

Cooking. 

The word cooking is derived from the Latin words meaning to boil, 
bake, seethe, dry or ripen. 

Drying and ripening are natural cooking. Drying in the sun was prob- 



6 Cincinnati Public Schools 

ably the earliest mode of cooking; then roasting before the open fire, next 
baking in hot ashes; this last was the primitive oven. 

Methods of Cooking. 
The main methods of cooking are boiling, stewing, steaming, broil- 
ing, roasting, baking, frying and sauteing. 

1. Boiling is cooking in boiling water. Food may be cooked in water 
which is hot but not boiling; this is often incorrectly called boiling. 

2. Stezwng is cooking slowly and a long time in a small quantity of 
water. 

3. Steaming is cooking over the steam from boiling water. 

4. Baking is cooking by the dry, confined heat of an oven. 

5. Roasting is cooking in oven with a very small quantity of water. 

6. Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat over fire. 

7. Frying is cooking in enough hot fat to cover. 

8. To saute is to cook in small quantity of fat, cooking on one side 
then on the other. This is commonly called frying. 

Measuring. 

Exact measuring is necessary to get the best and most uniform re- 
sults in cooking. 

Flour, meal, powdered sugar, soda and baking powder should be sifted 
before measuring. 

All materials are to be measured level. Measure dry materials into a 
cup with a spoon, leveling the top with a knife. A cupful of liquid is all 
the cup will hold. A spoonful of liquid is all the spoon will hold. 

To measure butter, lard, or any solid fat, pack solidly into the cup and 
level off with a knife. 

To measure a spoonful or cupful of dry substance, heap materials on 
spoon or cup, lift it and level with the flat surface of a case knife. 

Half a spoonful is a spoonful divided lengthwise. Quarter of a spoon- 
ful is a spoonful divided into half lengthwise and crosswise. 

A speck is as much as will lie on the tip of a pointed knife. 

Abreviations. 

tbsp. stands for tablespoon. oz. stands for ounce. 

tsp. stands for teaspoon. lb. stands for pound. 

■ c. stands for cup. spk. stands for speck. 

g. stands for gill. min. stands for minute, 

pt. stands for pint. h. stands for hour, 
qt. stands for quart. 

Equivalents. 
Measures. Weights. 

3 tsp.— 1 tbsp. 2 c. liquid— 1 lb. 

4 tbsp.— ^ c. 4 c. flour— 1 lb. 

]6 tbsp.— Ic. 2 c. solid fact— 1 lb. 

2 g. — 1 c. 2 c. granulated sugar — 1 lb. 

2 c— 1 pt. 3 c. meal— 1 lb. 

2 pt.— 1 qt. 2 c. solid meat— 1 lb. 

4 qts.— 1 gal. 2 tbsp. butter— 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. sugar — 1 oz. 4 tbsp. flour — 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. liquid — 1 oz. 

Juice of one lemon — 3 tbsp. 

One rounded spoonful is equal to two level spoonfuls. 

DISH-WASHING. 
Preparation. 
Scrape all food from dishes, rinse cups. Pile all dishes of one kind 
together. Soak in cold water dishes which have been used for milk, egg 
and starchy foods ; those used for sugary substances, in hot water. Wipe 
greasy dishes with soft paper, then soak in hot water. Make ready two 
pans, the dishpan half full of hot, soapy water, the rinsing pan half full of 
clear, hot water. Drain the dishes in a draining pan or rack. Have a 
clean, dry place clear for dried dishes 



Course of Study 7 

Order and General Directions. 
Where there are many dishes, begin by washing cooking utensils. First 
the large kettles, then the smaller articles of kitchen ware. For these use 
a heavy dish-cloth and towel. Use sapolio to remove food that sticks or is 
burnt on. If tinware is discolored by food burned on, boil out with strong 
soda water. Use dish-cloth on ironware, a scrubbing brush, if necessary 
on enameled ware, tinware and wire strainers. Clean seams in utensils 
with a wooden skewer. Be careful not to wet the cogs of a Dover egg- 
beater. Wash the lower part and wipe off the handle with a damp cloth. 
Water washes the oil out of the cogs, making the beater hard to turn. Wash 
tea and coffee pots in hot water without soap, cleaning the spout carefully. 
Dry and leave uncovered for a while. Take clean water, soft dish-cloth 
and towel. Wash glass, silver, delicate china, cups and saucers, then the 
larger dishes. Do not put knife handles in water. Water discolors and 
cracks ivory and bone handles, and may loosen wooden ones. Polish steel 
knives with pulverized Bristol brick or sapolio, rubbing with a cork. Clean 
silver with whiting and soft cloth ; polish with chamois. Wash dish and 
rinsing pans and wipe dry with a towel, not with dish-cloth. 

Care of Dish-Towels and Cloths. 

Dish-cloths, dish-towels and sink cloths should be hemmed. Use each 
cloth only for the purpose for which it is intended. Dish-towels and 
cloths should be washed thoroughly after each using, scalded and dried 
out of doors if possible. 

Care of the Sink. 

When dish washing is finished, wash every part of the sink with hot, 
soapy water. Wash above and around the sink. Use a wooden skewer to 
clean behind the sink pipes. Flush the sink with boiling water every day 
and once a week with a strong solution of washing soda. 

Scrubbing Boards and Tables. 
■ Do not wash bread board or rolling pin in an iron sink. The iron will 
leave marks on them. Clean them at the table. Wash thoroughly with a 
wet cloth. Rub sapolio on the wet board, wet the scrubbing brush and 
scrub well with the grain of the wood; rinse off the suds and wipe as dry 
as possible. A pastry-board should be scraped with the grain of the wood 
and wiped with a cloth wet in cold water. Grease spots on unfinished 
woods are removed by using borax or ammonia. 

Care of the Refrigerator. 
The refrigerator should be looked over daily, that no food is left to 
spoil. Hot food or food with a strong odor should not be put into the 
refrigerator. Once a week everything should be taken out and every part 
of the refrigerator washed with a solution of washing soda, using a mop 
or small broom. Flush the waste pipe with the sal soda solution. Wipe 
as dry as possible, leaving the refrigerator open until thoroughly dry. Put 
shelves in the sun, in the open air, or dry near the fire. It is easier to 
prevent bad odors in a refrigerator than to remove them. 

TABLE SERVICE. 

On the proper table service much of the comfort, cheerfulness and re- 
finement of the family depend. No amount of lavishness and perfection in 
the preparation of the food will compensate for poor arrangement and ser- 
vice in the dining-room. The most perfect order, and yet the greatest 
freedom, should exist. 

■No matter what the style of living may be — and this applies to the 
simplest as well a? the most elaborate households — there should always 
be a care to make the table and food pleasing to the eye. Well-laundered 
table linen, tableware that has been properly washed and wiped and that 
is arranged in an orderly manner, are the strongest factors in making a 
table elegant and attractive. .A few flowers loosely arranged, a bunch of 
ferns, or a small plant or fern will adorn and brighten a table more than 
any other one thing that can be used. Such decorations are in place on 
the humblest or the most sumptuous tables. 



8 Ciiu'innati Public Schools 

The table linen should be absolutely clean. The cloth should be long 
enough to hang well around the table. Under the linen cloth have a 
silence-cloth, either, table felting or some other soft and heavy material. 
The table is sometimes used bare, with doilies. Place the tablecloth in the 
center of the table, having the folds straight with the edge of the table. 
Have center-piece, if used, exactly in center of table. Napkins, simply 
folded, unstarched, are placed at the left of the plate, two inches from 
edge of table. Arrange dishes systematically, although not necessarily in 
straight rows. When there are no warm dishes to be served, place a plate, 
right side up, for each person, having them arranged symmetrically around 
the table. 

Place knife on right side, with sharp edge towards plate. 

Place fork on left side, with tines up. 

Place soup spoon at right of knife, bowl up. 

Place teaspoon at right of soup spoon, bowl up. 

Place glass, top up, upper right hand side, above knives. 

Place the butter, or bread and butter plate, at the upper left hand side. 

Place water bottle, milk, salt and pepper-cruets, etc., at corners of 
table. 

Place soup ladle in front of the hostess, the handle to the right, 
bowl up. 

Place carving knife at the right of the carver, fork at the left. and 
gravy spoon at right. 

Place several large spoons at each end of table. 

Place dishes that are to be served' at table directly in front of server. 

When- finger-bowls are used, put them on desert plates, with a doily 
underneath the bowl; place at left side of each person. 

When fruit is served at first course, place finger bowls in center of 
cover. 

Where the hostess pours the tea or coffee, arrange the service neatly 
in front of her. 

Arrange chairs at sufficient distance from the table so they need not 
be drawn out when people are seated. 

Rules for Serving. 

Cold food should be served' on cold dishes; hot food on hot dishes. 

When passing a dish, hold it so that the thumb will not rest upon the 
upper surface. 

In passing d'ishes from which a person is to help himself, pass always 
to the left side, so that the food may be taken with the right hand. 

In passing individual dishes, such as coffee, etc., set them down care- 
fully from the right side. 

When the dishes are being served by a person at the table, the wait- 
ress should stand at the left, hold the tray low and near the tab^e. Take 
on the tray one plate at a time and place in front of the person for whom 
it is intended, setting it down from the right side. 

When one course is finished, take the trap in the left hand, stand on 
the left side of the person and remove the soiled' dishes with the ri.:iht 
hand, never piling them on top of each other. 

Soiled dishes should be removed first, then food, then clean dishes, 
then crumbs. 

Fill the glasses before every course, without lifting them from the 
table. 

Never fill glasses over three-fourths full. 

Before the dessert is served, remove the crumbs from the cloth with 
a brush, crumb knife or a napkin. 

Do not let the table become disorderly during the meal. 

The hostess should serve the soup, salad, dessert, coffee, and, at a 
family dinner, the vegetables and entrees. 

The host serves the fish and meat. 

Whether waiting or being v/aited upon, remember that the Golden 
Rule is the best rule for table etiquette. 



Course of Study 9 

How TO Clean Room and Table After the Meal. 

Brush the crumbs from the floor. Arrange the chairs in their places. 
Collect and remove knives, forks and spoons. Empty and remove cups. 

Never set any food away on dishes used for serving. 

Pile all dishes of one kind together. 

Brush the crumbs from the cloth and foldi it carefully in the creases. 

If the napkins are to be used again, place them, neatly folded, in their 
individual rings. 

FIRE AND FIRE BUILDING. 

Heat is produced in four ways — 1, by the sun's rays; 2, by friction or 
rubbing ; 3, by combustion or burning ; 4, by electricity. 

Combustion is the uniting of two or more elements to form a new 
compound. Combustion always produces heat, and, if rapid, sometimes 
light. 

In order to have a fire three things are necessary : 

1. Fuel or something to burn. 

2. Heat, to make the fuel hot eiiougli to burn or to reach its "kindling 
point." 

3. Air to keep it burning or support combustion. 

Pure air is composed of oxygen and nitrogen. The oxygen is the part 
needed to keep the fire burning. 

Fuel is anything used to make a fire. The kinds of fuel most commonly- 
used in ranges are wood, coal and charcoal. Gas, gasoline, kerosene are 
burned in stoves prepared especially for their use. Fuels are composed 
mostly of carbon and hydrogen, with a small amount of oxygen. 

When fuel is heated sufficiently to burn, the carbon of the fuel unites 
with the oxygen of the air, and forms a gas, carbon-dioxide. The hydro- 
gen of the fuel unites with the oxygen of the air to form watery vapor. 
Carbon dioxide and watery vapor are thus known as the "products of com- 
bustion." Ash is what remains after all that is combustible has been 
burned. 

Fires are usually inclosed in iron boxes called ranges or stoves. In 
front, or at one end, is the fire box, or the part of the stove where the fire 
is made. This has a lining of fire brick to protect the iron from the hot 
coals. At the bottom is the grate, made of bars of iron with openings 
between, to allow the air to go up through the fire and also to allow the 
ashes to drop into the ash pan. Every stove must have two openings — one 
to supply air and another to allow smoke, gases, and watery vapor to escape 
through the chimney. The slides controlling these openings are called 
dampers. The slide which controls the opening supplying fresh air is in 
the front and belozu the fire box. This is called the fresh-air damper. The 
slide controlling the opening in the chimney is called the chimney damper. 
In cooking stoves and ranges there is another damper so arranged, as to 
force the hot air around the oven and so heat it before reaching the 
chimnej'. 

Fire-Building. 

Free the fire liox from the ashes; remove covers and brush soot from 
them. Lay the fire, putting in crumpled newspapers or shavings ; next dry 
kindling arranged crosswise ; then coal on top of the fire box. Open dam- 
pers and light the fire from the grate in front. The stove may be black- 
ened when the fire is lighted if dry polish is used. Liquid polish usually 
contains combustible fluid and should be used only when fire is out and 
stove is cold. 

Gas Range. — To light a top burner strike a match, turn on the cock and 
apply the match after the cock is turned. To light the oven burner, open 
the lower door, turn on the pilot light and light from the outside. Turn on 
the burner stop cocks. When both are lighted, turn off the pilot. The gas 
flame should be blue ; a yellow or red flame does not give the heat, smokes 
and wastes the gas, and is caused by the flame flashing back into the air 
chamber. The gas should be turned off and the burner relighted. 



10 Cincinnati Public Schools 

WATER. 
Water a Necessity. 
Without water there is no life; a seed kept dry never sprouts; an 
unwatered plant dies. 

Water occurs more commonly and in larger quantities than any other 

liquid. „ 

Source. 

As rain it collects in lakes, rivers, springs, etc. 

Kinds. 

Two kinds, hard and soft. Hard water has mineral matter dissolved 
in it. Soft has little or none. 

Facts.- 

Because of its solvent power, water is rarely found perfectly pure; it 
not only dissolves mineral matter, but also organic (animal or vegetable). 

Water which has been standling in the pipes several hours should' not 
be used "for cooking or drinking purposes, as it dissolves the lead. 

Water dissolves almost anything with which it comes in contact. 

Hot water dissolves more things than cold. 

Soft water should be used for cooking. 

To Soften Hard Water. 

Slightly hard water may be softened by boiling. Boiling will also 
destroy the germs. 

Clear water lecomes no hotter than 212°, consequently fuel is wasted 
in keeping up more than is required to keep the water at the boiling 
point. 

Economize heat by keeping the vessel covered'. 

Water expands in heating; if kettle is too full, it will boil over. 

Water loses its gases in boiling, giving it a flat taste — replace them by 
poi:ring from one vessel to another. 

Drinking Water. 

Gocd drinking water is a clear, colorless, almost tasteless, odorless 
liquid, free from disease germs and contains a small amount of mineral 
matter. If there is any doubt about its purity, it should be boiled ten 
minutes to kill the germs. 

Temperature Used in Cooking. 

Test with a thermometer. 

(a) Luke warm, 98° ; body- heat. 

(b) Scalding, 150°; too hot to keep the fingers in. 

/(c) Simmering, 185°; small air bubbles appear at bottom and sides 
of vessel, causing a movement of water. 

(d) Boiling, 212°; large bubbles appear on the surface, all over the 
water; break; steam escapes. 

(e) Freezing, 32°; water changes to ice andi ice changes to water. 

Uses to the Body. 
Water constitutes about two-thirds or three-fourths of the body, 
consequently we must take about four pints daily, part of which we drink 
and part of which is in our food. 

1. Water quenches the thirst. 

2. Water dissolves and helps digest the food. 

3. Water carries off waste products. 

4. Water keeps the temperature normal. 

BEVERAGES. 
Tea and Coffee. 
Tea and coffee are not foods, but beverages that have a stimulating 
effect on the nerves ; they relieve fatigue and prevent tissue from wearing 
out. 

Do not use too much or too strong tea and coffee, especially for young 
people. 

Tea is valued' for its theine ; coffee, for its caffeine. 

Both contain tannin, a bitter substance very injurious to the stomach. 



Course of Study 



11 



1 tsp. tea. 
1 c. boiliiK 



water. 



Boiling tea or letting tea or coffee stand longer than live minutes on the 
leaves or grounds will extract this tannin. 

General Rules. 

1. Keep the tea and coffee in closely covered jars. Buy coffee un- 
ground. 

2. Do not use tin tea or coffee pots. 

3. Scald tea and coffee pots before using. 

4. Use freshly boiled water in making tea- and coffee. 

5. Stir tea before serving. 

'6. Serve coffee with cream or hot milk. 

Recipes — Tea. 
Put the tea in a scalded teapot and pour the 
boiling water over it. Steep five minutes. 
Strain and serve either hot or iced. 
Russian Tea. 
Make tea by above recipe and serve with a 
slice of lemon and sugar ; .serve hot. 
Boiled Coffee. 
Mix with the coffee one tablespoonful of 
cold water ; add boiling water and boil three 
minutes. Remove to back of stove, add an- 
other tablespoonful of cold water and settle 
five minutes. Crushed egg shells may be mixed 
with the coffee to help clear it. 
Filtered Coffee. 
Put the coffee into the upper part of a 
scalded filter coffee pot and pour the hot water 
slowly through it. The coffee pot must be 
kept hot while the coffee is being made. 
Cocoa. 
Mi.x cocoa, sugar and salt with water and 
boil five minutes. Stir this into hot milk and 
cook in double boiler one-half hour. Beat with 
a Dover beater several minutes and serve. 



2 tbsp. coarsely ground 

coffee, 
1 tbsp. cold water, 
1 c. boiling water, 
1 tbsp. cold water. 



IH tbsp. finely ground 

coffee, 
Ic. boiling water. 

3 tbsp. cocoa, 
3 tbsp. sugar, 
%. tsp. salt, 
2 c. milk, 
2 c. water. 



FRUIT. 

Experiment 1. Grate and squeeze an apple. 

What does so much jiiice mean? 

What makes an apple hard? 

Experiment 2. Taste the apple. 

What substance does it contain? 

With a few exceptions fresh fruit has little nourishment in it, but is 
nevertheless an essential food. Fruits contain a large amount of water, 
cellulose, some sugar and mineral salts, and are eaten for their delicious 
flavor, refreshing juices and mineral compounds. 

These mineral salts supply elements which are essential to pure blood, 
and for this reason fruit should form an important part of our diet, espec- 
ially in summer. 

Methods of Cooking Used in this Lesson. 
Baking is cooking in an oven, by the application of heated air. Stew- 
ing is cooking for a long time in water, usually below the simmering point. 

Dried Fruits. 
Prunes, apricots, peaches, dates, figs, raisins and currants are our com- 
mon dried fruits. When fresh they contain from 80 to 90 per cent water, 
but this is reduced to nearly 20 per cent in drying. In cooking, the dried 
fruit will take up only the amount of water lost in drying. 

General Rules for Cooking Dried Fruits. 

Wash thoroughly but quickly in cold water, taking each piece in the 

fingers. Change the water until the fruit is clean. Let soak in cold water 

several hours, allowing ^ quart of water to 14 pound of fruit. Cook in 

the same water until soft. Long soaking and quick cooking gives the most 



12 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



1 c. sugar, 

J/j c. hot water. 



natural flavor. Sweeten to taste and cook five minutes longer. If the 
syrup is too thin, remove the fruit and allow the syrup to cook until thick- 
ened ; then pour over the fruit. 

Steamed Apples. 
Core and pare sound, tart apples. Place on a plate in a steamer and 
allow to steam until tender. Arrange on a glass serving-dish and pour 
syrup over them. 

Syrup. 
Amount for eight apples. Cook the sugar 
and water together, without stirring, for five 
minutes. 

Baked Apples. 
Select sound, tart apples; wash, remove the core, and, if the apples 
are thick-skinned, they shouldi be pared. Place in an earthenware or gran- 
ite baking dish and pour one tablespoonful sugar, mixed with a little spice, 
into the cavity in each apple. Pour enough boiling water around the apples 
to cover the bottom of the baking dish, and bake until soft in a hot oven, 
frequently dipping the syrup in the pan over the apples. Serve hot or cold 
with milk or cream. 

Stewed Prunes. 
Cook prunes according to general direc- 
tions for stewed fruit. Flavor with the sugar 
and sliced) lemon. 



1 lb. prunes, 

2 tbsp. sugar, 
1 lemon. 



H c. apricots. 
4 c. water, 
J4 c. sugar. 



1 qt. cranberries, 
1 lb. sugar, 
1 c. water. 



Uncooked Apricots. 
Wash apricots carefully and let them stand 
in cold water 12 hours. Drain off the water 
and cook with the sugar 20 minutes. Pour 
this over the fruit and let stand several hours. 
Again drain ofif syrup and bring to the boil- 
ing point. Pour over the fruit. Serve cold. 

Cranberry Jelly. 
Pick over and. wash the cranberries, cook 
them slowly with the water for about fifteen 
minutes, and press through a strainer. Re- 
turn to the fire and add the sugar, stirring 
until it is dissolved. Boil without stirring five 
minutes longer ; pour into a mould and let it , 
stand until firm enough to turn out. Serve \ 
with poultry, mutton or game. 

Rhubarb Sauce, Steamed. 
Cut ofif the leaves. Wash the stalks and cut them into y^-'mch lengths. 
To each pint of rhubarb add one' cupful of sugar and cook it in a double 
boiler till soft. Add more sugar if it tastes too sour. Do not stir it. The 
pieces of rhubarb should be unbroken. 

Baked. 
Prepare and sweeten the rhubarb as for steaming. Cook it in a deep 
dish in a moderate oven until tender and deep red in color. 

Potatoes. 

The Potato. — If we examine the potato, we find small scars, called 
"eyes," on the surface. From these eyes sprouts will appear if the potato 
is placed in the earth or kept in a warm, dark place. These eyes, then, must 
be budte, and the potato a stem, not a root'; roots, or linarily, do not bud. 
A thickened, underground stem like this of the potato, is a tuber. 

Experiments to determine composition : 

(a) Pare and grate part of a potato. Press in a cheese cloth. Dry 
what remains in cloth. 



Cijiirsc of Study 



13 



(b ) Put cornstarch, sugar, salt and sediment from potato liquid in 
test tubes: add iodine to each. Note reaction. 

(c) Cook liquids in test tubes. Which thickens and which do not? 

Composition. 

1. Water— about 75%. 

2. Starch — chief foodstuff in potatoes — about one-fifth of all. 

3. Cellulose or woody fibre — forms walls of cells too tough to be di- 
gested — little food value. 

4. Potash and other mineral salts — lying mostly under skin. 

The sweet potato differs from the white potato chiefly in containing 

^"^^^- Food Value. 

Potatoes contain too small a quantity of foodstuffs to be valuable if 
eaten alone. Eaten with meats and richer foods, they form an important 
article of diet and one we do not tire of, as they can be cooked in such a 
variety of ways. 

Baked Potatoes. 
Select medium-sized; scrub clean. Bake in moderate oven on grate 
until soft ; about 45 minutes, turning occasionally. When done, press in 
cloth until skin breaks to allow steam to escape. Serve in folded napkin 
or uncovered dish. g ^^j^^^ potatoes, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
^ c. hot milk, 
Ys tsp. pepper, 
14 tsp. salt, 
Chopped parsley, 
Or grated cheese, 
Or white or whole egg. 



Stuffed Potatoes. 
Bake large potatoes ; cut lengthwise through 
the center. Remove inside of potato ; mash, 
season, return to shell and brown in oven. 



Boiled Potatoes. 
(Put water on to boil.) 
Select potatoes of uniform size; pare them; remove all eyes and spots 
and put into boiling salted water and boil gently about 30 minutes or until 
tender when tried with fork. Drain off water and shake gently over fire 
to make dry and mealy. When potatoes are cooked with skins on, scrub 
clean and pare off a strip around center to prevent potato from bursting. 

Mashed Potatoes. 
Boil potatoes until tender; drain off water; 
dry over stove and mash in hot pan ; add sea- 
soning and hot milk. Beat with fork to make 
light and creamy; heap on warm dish with- 
out smoothing the top. 

Potatoes in White Sauce. 
Cut cold boiled) potatoes into ^-inch cubes ; 
make a white sauce ; add potatoes and heat ; 
thoroughly chopped parsley may be added just 
before serving. 

French Fried Potatoes. 
Wash and pare potatoes cut in half length- 
wise; cut half in pieces like section of an 
orange; let stand in cold water 20 minutes. 
Drain, dry and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 
Place on clean brown paper to absorb grease. 
Sprinkle with salt. 

Lvonn'aise Potatoes. 
Cut potatoes in cubes ; melt butter in hot 
pan ; stir in onions, andl, when brown, add 
potatoes sprinkled with salt and pepper; stir 
occasionally until golden brown; add parsley. 



6 medium sized potatoes, 
1/2 tsp. salt, 
1 spk. pepper, 

1 tbsp. butter, 

2 tbsp. milk. 

1 c. potatoes. 

1 c. milk, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. flour, 
Yo tsp. salt, 

Ys tsp. pepper, 
Chopped parsley. 



6 medium sized potatoes. 



1 c. cold boiled potatoes, 
% tsp. salt, 

Spk. pepper, 

2 tbsp. butter, 

1 tbsp. chopped onion, 

2 tbsp. chopped parsley. 



14 Cincinnati Public Schools 

VEGETABLES. 

"The secret of the cooking of vegetables is the judicious production 
of flavor." — E. H. Richards. 

We eat as vegetables the fruits, or seed vessels, of some plants; of 
others, the root, the leaves or some other part. Vegetables, like fruits, 
contain salts important to health. Vegetables chiefly valued for these salts 
are frequently eaten raw; to this class belong lettuce, celery, cucumbers, 
and all "salad" plants. 

There are two classes of vegetables — those growing under ground, such 
as potatoes, carrots and parsnips, and those growing above ground,- or green 
vegetables, such as lettuce and spinach. 

Vegetables are economical food when used in season and are a very 
necessary part of the diet. In cooking those rich in mineral such as spin- 
ach, peas, oyster plant, etc., a small amount of water should be used, so 
that the minerals may not be lost by dissolving in the water. 

The woody part of vegetables is called cellulose. This is not digest- 
ible, but is important and is suitable to combine with such concentrated 
foods as eggs and milk. If possible, at least two vegetables should be 
fo-und in every dinner, and vegetables should form a large part of our 
diet in the spring and summer. 

Rules for Cooking Vegetables. 

1. Use vegetables which are in season, and select medium-sized or 
small rather than large vegetables. 

2. Wash thoroughly in cold water, and, if wilted, allow to soak until 
freshened. 

3. Green, above-ground vegetables should be cooked in boiling, salted 
water, imcovered, using two teaspoonfuls of salt to one quart of water. 

4. Underground vegetables should be cooked in boiling, salted water, 
covered. 

5. Strongly flavored vegetables, such as cabbage and onions, should 
be cooked uncovered. Change the water over onions every ten or fifteen 
minutes while cooking. 

6. Vegetables should be cooked only until tender and served plain, 
with salt, pepper, butter and milk or creamed with a white sauce. 

7. Use the cooking water, if palatable, in sauces, soup-stock, cream 
of vegetable soup, etc. 

8. The time required to cook any given vegetable depends upon its 
size, age and freshness. Dried or wilted vegetables cook more quickly if 
first soaked in cold water. 

Boiled Spinach. 
Put water on to boil. Remove the roots and pick over the spinach; 
wash in several waters; place in a kettle; add two quarts of boiling salted 
water to one peck of spinach; drain when tender; chop fine; reheat, season, 
with salt and pepper and butter. Place on a platter and garnish with slices 
of hard-cooked egg and surround by a thick white sauce. 

Fried Tomatoes. 
Cut a thin slice from top and bottom of each tomato; cut them 
in two; season each slice with salt, pepper and sugar; dredge well with 
flour, brown each side in hot butter, place on rounds of toast. Make a 
gravy by stirring 1 tbsp. flour in the butter left in the pan when smooth,- 
return to the fire, add gradually 1 c milk, stir and cook 10 minutes, pour 
around the tomatoes. 

Creamed Cabbage. 
Remove the outside leaves ; cut the cabbage 4 c. cabbage, 
in halves and slice. Place to cook in boiling White sauce, 
salted water; when tender, drain and add the 1 c. milk, 
white sauce. Melt the butter ; add flour and 2 tbsp. butter, 
stir until smooth ; gradually add the hot milk 2 tbsp. flour, 
and cook 10 minutes. Add salt and pepper y^ tsp. salt, 
and remove from fire. ^ tsp. pepper. 

Boiled Cabbage. 
Put water on to heat. Dice the cabbage; cover with boiling, salted" 
water and cook, uncovered, until tender; drain; season with salt, pepper 



Course of Study 15 

and butter to taste. Cabbage is sometimes boiled in meat stock, in this 
case it needs less seasoning. 

Boiled Beets. 
Put water on to heat. Wash beets carefully, so as not to break 
the skin; leave on about an inch of the tops and the whole root. Cook in 
boiling water, time required varies from one hour to four. When tender, 
plunge in cold water and rub off the skins. Serve hot, sliced and seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter, or let stand in vinegar to which has been 
added a little sugar, cinnamon and allspice. 

Asparagus. 
Put water on to heat. Cut the stalks off as far down as they are brit- 
tle ; wash and place ,to cook in boiling, salted water ; cook until tender. 
Drain and season with butter and pepper. Serve on strips of toast but- 
tered and moistened with the cooking water. 

Creamed Onions. 
Put water on to heat. Peel the onions in cold water. If they are 
small, leave them whole; if large, cut in halves or quarters. Place to cook 
in boiling water uncovered. Change water every ten minutes. Add salt to 
the last water. When tender, drain and cover with a white sauce made 
the same as for creamed cabbage. 

CEREALS. 
Cereals are grains or grasses the seeds of which are used for food. 

Kinds. 
Wheat, oats, Indian corn, rye, barley, rice, buckwheat; from these are 
prepared the various breakfast foods. 

Composition. 
Starch, cellulose, protein, mineral salts, fat and water. 

Starch. 
Starch is a fine, white glistening powder, insoluble in cold water, but 
partially soluble in hot water, with which it forms a jelly-like paste. 

Where Founij 
Starch is found and stored up by many growing plants as food for the 
young shoots, collecting in autumn, to be used in the spring. Starch is 
found in abundance in the cereals. 

Class. 
Starch is one of the heat and energy-producing foods, and belongs to 
the carbohydrate group. Starch is composed of carbon, oxygen and hy- 
drogen. When heated, oxygen and hydrogen pass off as water,' leaving 
the carbon. ^^^^ y^^uE. 

Cereals are important foods, rich in tissue-building substances. 

Oatmeal and Cornmeal. 

Oatmeal and cornmeal contain more fat than other grains and so are 
especially good as winter foods. 

Rice contains more starch and less fat than any other grain; making 
it a good food for tropical countries, and one of the most easily digested 
of starchy foods; use it in place of potato, or combine it with eggs, milk, 
etc. 

Laundry starch is made from corn. 

Directions for Cooking Cereals. 

1. Stir cereals gradually into the required quantity of boiling zaater, 
allowing 1 teaspoonful salt to each cup of cereal. 

It is boiled to soften the woody fibre or cellulose, and swell the starcn 
Salt is added to give flavor. 

2. Fine granular cereals, mix with cold water to keep them from 
lumping. 

3. Stir coarse, flaky cereals with a fork. 

4. Prepared cereals, cook tivice as long as directed on the package. 
Cook rapidly at first, directly on the stove, about ten minutes. Then 

place it over boiling water and cook thirty minutes longer. 



16 



Ciiiiimiati i'ublic Schools 



5. To save time, soak coarse cereals in water before cooking, then 
cook several hours. 

Serve cereals with milk or cream to supply fat. For variety, stir into 
cereals figs or dates cut into pieces before serving. Serve also with bananas 
sliced, and with prunes or baked or steamed apples. Eat something solid 
with cereals. Why? 

Table for Cooking Cereals, 
kind. quantity. water time. 

Rolled Oats 1 cup. 4c. 3 to 6 hours. 

" Avena 1 " 

Rice (steamed) 1 " 2^)4 to 4c. 45 to 60 min. 

" (boiled) 1 '■ 6 cups. 25 minutes. 

Cornmeal L " 3J/2 " 2 hours. 

Oatmeal 

Cracked Wheat ■ 1 " 4 " 4 

Hominy (fine) 1 " 4 " 4 " 

Wheatena, Cream of Wheat, etc. 1 " 3^ ." 30 minutes. 

Steaming. 
In steaming, heat is applied by means of steam. It is a form of boiling. 

Ways of Steaming. 

1. Cooking in a double boiler; the upper one, holding the food, fits 
tightly, half-way down in the lower one, which contains the boiling water. 

2. Cooking in a steamer or covered pan with perforations in the bot- 
tom._ This is placed over boiling water, the food is kept out of the water 
but in direct contact with the steam. 

3. Cooking in a covered mold, which is placed in a kettle of boiling 
water on a trivet or muffin ring, allowing the water to be under as well as 
around it. The kettle should be closely covered, to keep in the steam, 
and the water kept boiling steadily the required time. 

Economy. 
Steaming is the most economical way of cooking. 

Boiled Rice. 
Boil the water. Wash rice carefully. Keep 
water boiling rapidly, andl add rice slowly so 
as not to stop the boiling. Stir at first with a 
fork to keep grains from settling on bottom 1 c. rice, 
of pan. Boil uncovered 25 or 30 minutes. 6 to 8 c. ])oiling water, 
Turn into a strainer to drain, pour one cup 1 tsp. salt, 
of hot or cold water over, return to pan and lA c. raisins, 
stand in oven a few minutes to dry. Add the 
salt when nearly done and the raisins if d'e- 
sired. 

USES FOR STALE BREAD. 

Expeviiucut 1. Put some flour in a small frying pan over a low fire, 
and stir as it heats. What happens to it? 

Experiment 2. Put some of this browned flour into water and boil. 
Does it grow thick? Why not? Test with iodine. Do you get the blue 
color? Give the reason for the fact you observe. 

Dextrine. 

Whenever starch is heated to 320 degrees a new substance, named 
dextrine, which somewhat resembles sugar, is formed. Dextrine differs 
from starch in that it dissolves, does not thicken mixtures or give a blue 
color with iodine. Dextrine is found in the crusts of bread or cake and 
in baked potatoes. Also in prepared foods like Grape-nuts and Force. 

By digestion foods are rendered soluble. Toasted bread is more diges- 
tible, and therefore has a higher food value than fresh bread, partly be- 
cause it breaks up into small pieces very readily, but chiefly because much 
of the starch has been changed to dextrine. 

_ Toast. 

Cut stale bread into slices one-fourth of an inch thick. Put them into 



Course of Study 



17 



4 c. hot milk, 

2 c. bread crumbs, 


2 eggs, 

1 tbsp. butter, 
J4 c. sugar, 
% c. raisins, 
J4 c. currants, 
% tsp. nutmeg. 



a toaster, move it gently over the fire until dry, then allow it to become a 
light brown by placing it nearer the heat and turning constantly. A hot, 
clear fire should be used in toasting. 

Croutons. 

Cut pieces of stale bread into one-third inch cubes, and brown in the 
oven. Stir with a spoon occasionally, so that they will brown evenly. 
Serve with soup. 

Dried Bread Crumbs. 

Crusts and small pieces of bread should be dried in a cool oven. Roll 
them on a pastry-board or put through a meat-grinder. Crumbs must be 
sifted. Use them to cover articles of food to be cooked in deep fat, for the 
top of scalloped- dishes, in making dressing for poultry, etc. Crumbs should 
be kept in jars with a piece of muslin over them. 

Hot Cabinet Pudding. 
Butter a mould, 'using all of the butter; 
sprinkle sides andi bottom with the currants. 
Lay the bread crumbs in the mould in layers, 
with raisins between the layers. Beat the 
eggs, add sugar, salt and nutmeg, then ' the 
hot milk. Pour this mixture over the bread, 
let stand in a cold place one hour and then 
steam one hour, steam one-half hour if 
moulded in cups. Turn out on a platter, 
serve with cream or hard sauce. This pudl- 
ding may be baked by placing the mould in 
a pan of hot water in a moderate oven. Do 
not allow the water in the pan to reach the 
boiling point. For chocolate pudding omit 
the raisins, currants and nutmeg, and use in- 
stead one oz. of chocolate melted over hot 
water, or two tablespoonfuls of cocoa. If 
uncovered or individual moulds are used cover 
with oiled paper before placing in the steamer. 

MILK. 
Analysis of Milk by Experiment. 
Experiment 1. Drop milk or cream on a blotter or unvarnished. wood. 
What kind of a spot does it make? 

Experiment 2. Test with iodine. Is starch present? 
Experiment 3. Boil some milk. Something rises to the top. 
Experiment 4. Add an acid. What happens? 

average composition of milk. 

Proteins {casein small amount of albumen) 3.3 per cent. 

Carbohydrates (milk and sugar or lactose) .5 

Fat ( cream ) 4 

Mineral matter 7 

Water 87 

Milk is the sole food for the young of many animals. It contains all 
the elements needed for the nutrition of the animals for which it was in- 
tended, hence is often called a "perfect food " For adults, milk is not a 
perfect food, because the amount of water is too great. Another reason is 
that the digestive organs need a certain amount of waste materials to give 
bulk to the foodi and thus assist the action of the stomach and the intestines. 

It may be safely said, that for those in ill health, no other single food 
is of as much value. 

Casein is the most important proteid in milk. It is coagulated by 
acids, as vinegar, causing a solid curd to separate from the liquid part 
called "whey." 

Milk turns sour because of an acid formed by bacteria. This acid is 
called lactic acid. The coagulated casein or curd of milk is used in mak- 
ing cheese. 



18 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



The film which rises to the top of milk when heated in an uncovered 
vessel is mostly albumen, with some small part of casein. The sugar found 
in milk is lactose. It is less sweet and less soluble than sugar cane. 

The zuhey consists chiefly of water, having in it the dissolved sugar, 
mineral matter and other ingredients of milk. 

The fat of milk is present in form of minute globules. Being the 
lightest part of milk, they rise to the top, forming a layer of cream. When 
shaken or churned these tiny globules stick together forming butter. The 
remaining milk is called buttermilk. Butter can be made from fresh sweet 
cream, but more frequently is made from cream which has been allowed to 
sour or "ripen." This ripening process is known to be due to the action 
of certain bacteria. Formerly cream was left to ripen of itself but the 
flavor varied. Now the desired flavor can be given to butter at any time, 
because the bacteria producing the best aroma have been separated and cul- 
tivated by themselves forming what is known as "pure culture." These 
bacteria are kept growing under proper conditions and are sold under the 
name of "butter cultures," for the purpose of producing the fine flavor of 
butter. 

Bacteria grow very rapidly in milk, therefore the utmost cleanliness 
should be observed in the handling, storing and serving milk. In order 
to be sure milk is free from germ life it should be sterilized. 

Sterilized Milk. 
Fill sterilized bottles nearly full of milk and cork with cotton that has 
been baked in the oven. Place bottles on rest in deep pan so they will not 
touch the bottom. Fill pan with cold water as high as the milk in the bot- 
tles. Heat to 158 degrees F. Remove to back of stove and keep at that 
temperature 30 m. Cool by placing bottles in luke warm water, then in 
cold. Keep in cold place until ready for use. 

Butter. 

Shake the cream in wide-mouthed jar until 
butter separates from liquid. Collect par- 
ticles and wash in cold water until water is 
clean, pressing with wooden spoon. Put into 
dry bowl and sprinkle with salt and work in 
well. 

Rennet Custard or Junket. 

Heat milk in double boiler; add sugar and 
flavoring and stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Add rennet and pour into dish in which it is 
to be served. Cool and serve plain or with 
cream. Junket tablets may be used instead 
of rennet. 

Whipped Cream. 

Set bowl of cream in pan of ice water 
and beat with Dover beater until stiff; then 
add sugar andl flavoring. Keep in cool place. 

Cornstarch Mould. 
Heat milk, mix cornstarch, sugar and salt. 
Add hot milk slowly, stirring all the time. 
Cook in double boiler 20 m. Remove from 
fire, add flavoring and turn into mould that 
has been wet with cold water. Serve' with 
cream or fruit. 

Chocolate Cornstarch Mould. 
Two or three tablespoons of cocoa added to the dry materials and 
cooked as above make the chocolate mould. Serve with cream. 

MILK OR CREAM SOUPS— WITH SAUCE. 
Cream soups are a combination of white sauce and strained vegetable 
pulp. A puree is the pulp of a cooked vegetable, strained and thinned 
slightly with milk or cream. 



14 pt. cream, 
]4 tsp. fine salt. 



c. milk, 
tbsp. sugar, 

liquid rennet, 

vanilla. 



tsp. 
tsp. 



pt. 

tbsp. 



cream, 
powdered sugar, 



l-i tsp. vanilla. 



4 c. milk, 

4 tl)sp. cornstarch, 

5 tbsp. sugar, 

1 tsp. flavoring, 
Spk. salt. 



Course of Study 



19 



A cream of vegetable soup is a very thin puree. 

The vegetables most commonly used are peas, beans, lentils, potatoes, 
corn, celery, spinach and asparagus. 

Old and tough vegetables may also be used in making these soups as 
the old or tough part is sifted out. 

Cream soups are economical and nourishing and should be served fre- 
quently. They are too rich to precede a heavy meal and so are better 
served at luncheon than at dinner. 



General Directions. 

Cook the vegetables until very tender, press 
through a strainer and add the sifted pulp 
to the hot milk. 

The butter and flour should be mixed to 
a smooth paste and stirred into the hot liquid. 
Cook until smooth, season and serve with 
croutons. 



1 qt. milk, 

1 to 2 cups of vegetable 

pulp, 

2 tbsp. butter, 

1 to 2 tbsp. flour, 
1 tsp. salt, 

A few grains to % tsp. 
pepper. 



If the soup is too thick it may be thinned with a little hot milk or 
water. 

To make the soup richer, add ^ cup cream or one beaten egg imme- 
diately before serving. The flour is used in the cream soups as a thick- 
ening and binding material. Heat causes a softening of the starch which 
served to bind the liquid and solid parts of the soup together. 

The butter and flour may be added in the following ways : 

1. Melt butter and stir in dry ingredients. 

2. Mix butter and flour together cold. 

3. Flour blended with a little cold milk. 



RECIPES. 

White Sauce. 

Sift the dry ingredients together ; melt the 
butter in a saucepan and add the dry ingredi- 
ents, pressing out the lumps with the back of 
the spoon. Add the milk gradually and cook 
until smooth. 

White sauce is used on green vegetables, 
creamed meats and fish, croquettes, creamed 
toast, and as a foundation for crearried soups. 

Cream of Green Peas Soup. 
Cook the peas until tender and pass through 
a strainer. Blend with milk, seasoning and 
flour mixed with the butter, according to the 
general directions. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Wash celery, cut into pieces and boil in 
water until tender; then press through a 
strainer. Cook the milk and onion together 
ten minutes and add the milk to the sifted 
celery. Thicken and season according to the 
general directions. 

Potato Soup. 

Boil the potatoes until soft; then drain 
and mash them. Cook the onion in the milk, 
add salt and pepper and when the potatoes 
are mashed, add them to the scalded milk. 
Rub through a strainer and beat. Add the 
flour andl butter according to general direc- 
tions; cook until smooth, add parsley and 
serve with croutons. Beef drippings may be 
used in place of butter. 



2 tbsp. flour, 
2 tbsp. butter, 
1 c. milk, 
J/$ tsp. salt, 
% tsp. pepper. 

1 can peas, _ 

2 tsbp. flour, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
^2 tsp. salt, 

ys tsp. pepper, 

1 qt. milk, 

Small piece onion.. 

1 qt. boiling water, 

1 pt. milk, 

1/2 small onion, 

3 tbsp. flour, 

3 tbsp. butter, 
14 tsp. salt, 
% tsp. pepper, 

2 or 3 cups celery pulp. 

3 potatoes, 
3 c. milk, 
1],4 c. water, 

ll4 small onions. 

11/4 tsp. salt, 

'4, tsp. pepper. 

3 tbsp. butter, 

3 tbsp. flour, 

1 tbsp. choppel parsley. 



20 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



1 pt. of fresh or canned 

tomatoes, 
1 bay leaf, 

1 tsp. chopped parsley, 
1 small onion, 
1 tsp. sugar, 
1 spk. soda, 
3 c. milk, 
A^A tbsp. flour, 
4i/> tbsp. butter, 
1 tsp. salt, 
y^ tsp. pepper. 



Tomato Bisque. 

Put the tomatoes on with the spice and 
onion and simmer ten minutes, then rub 
through a strainer. Scald the milk and add 
the butter, flour, salt and pepper according to 
general directions. • Return the strained toma- 
toes to the fire and add the soda and sugar; 
allow to boil up then add it to the thickened 
milk and serve at once, with croutons. Do not 
allow the soup to boil after the tomatoes have 
been added to the milk. 

SALAD. 
A salad means a cold food of meat, eggs, cheese, fish, cooked and raw 
vegetables, or fruit combined with a dressing containing oil, butter or 
cream, and may be served upon any occasion. 

There are three kinds of dressing — French. Cooked, Mayonnaise. 
Rules for a Perfect Salad. 

1. Have all ingredients cold. 

2. Have greens in it crisp. 

3. Have it well seasoned. 

4. Have ingredients in diressing properly proportioned and well 
blended. 

5. Have salad attractively garnished. 

General Directions. 
1.- Have meat free from bone, gristle and fat. 

2. Cut meat, vegetables, etc., in uniform pieces. 

3. Wash lettuce, parsley and watercress in cold water; shake free 
from water and dry in a towel ; put in a cheese cloth or covered bowl and 

■ place in a cool place, or let soak for a few hours in cold water. 

4. Put the remnants of cooked vegetables into a colander and pour 
hot water over them to rinse ofif any butter. 

Food Value. 
The food value of green salad is not very high, but the salts its sup- 
plies and its refreshing, appetizing qualities make it a most wholesome 
food. The oil or butter used in dressing it furnishes fat in a digestible 
form, and when mea^:, fish or eggs are used served with a cooked or may- 
onnaise dressing, it contains a great deal of nourishment. It should then 
be one of the chief foods of a meal. For dinner or a hearty meal serve 
green or fruit salad. 

French Dressing. 3 tbsp. olive oil. 

Stir the seasonings into the oil ; add the 1 tbsp. vinegar, 
vinegar and stir vigorously until the dressing 1/2 tsp. salt, 
thickens. Serve with green salad. % tsp. pepper. 



.Cooked Dressing. 

Mix all the dry ingredients with egg yolks, 
slightly beaten. Add the milk, then the hot 
vinegar, and cook in a double boiler until it 
thickens, stirring all the time. When done, 
add the butter, and when melted, turn out to 
cool. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Break a yolk of an egg into a cold bowl, 
being careful that no white clings to the yolk. 
Beat slightly; add seasonings, then the oil, a 
drop at a time. Beat hard, and, as it thick- 
ens, add more rapidly, being careful that the 
oil in the bowl is thoroughly mixed before 
adding more. When stiff, add vinegar or 
lemon juice, a little at a time, and continue 
"beating until all the nil and vinegar are in. 



2 egg yolks or 2 whole 

eggs, 
1 tsp. salt, 
1 tsp. mustard, 
1 tbsp. sugar, 
Vf!, tsp. cayenne, 
•'^ c. milk, 
14 c. vinegar,, 
2^ tbsp. butter, 
1 tbsp. flour. 

Yolk of 1 or 2 eggs, 
1 c. olive oil, 
14 tsp. salt, 

1 spk. cayenne pepper, 

2 tbsp. lemon juice, 
Or vinegar. 



Course of Study 



31 



Potato Salad. 
Cut cold or freshly boiled potatoes in one- 
half inch cubes or in slices ; mix with season- 
ings. Pour hot cooked dressing over potatoes 
and mix lightly with a fork; chill. When 
ready to serve, arrange in a mound on a bed 
of lettuce. Garnish with chopped parsley and 
hard-cooked eggs or radish roses. 

Cold Slaw. 
Soak the cabbage in cold, salt water for 
thirty minutes ; shred it fine with a sharp 
knife and mix the dressing with it; serve cold. 

Waldorf, or Celery and Apple Salad. 
Wash and crisp the lettuce; break the cel- 
ery into stalks, wash and use the white parts ; 
cut in pieces about one-half inch in length ; 
pare tart apples and cut in cubes ; mix to- 
gether and add a little salad dressing. Ar- 
range lettuce on individual plates ; fill with 
the mixture and on top put a spoonful of the 
mayonnaise or cooked dressing. If desired, 
add one-fourth cup chopped pecans or Eng- 
lish walnuts. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad. 
Scald and peel tomatoes, allowing one for 
each person. Slice off the tops. Take out 
•seeds with a spoon and a little of the pulp 
and fill the cavities heaping full with celery 
or cucumber, mixed with mayonnaise or cook- 
ed dressing. Make nests of leaves of lettuce 
and put a tomato in each nest. 



4 c. potatoes, 

2 tsp. chopped onions, 

1/2 tsp. salt, 

% tsp. pepper, 

1 bunch parsley, chopped. 



1^2 of- a small head of 

cabbage, 
1 c. hot cooked! dressing. 



2 c. celery, 

2 c. apple cubes, 

1 c. salad dressing. 



S tomatoes, 

2 c. cubed cucumber, 

or celery, 
1 c. dressing. 



CHEESE. 

Cheese is made from milk, chiefly the milk of cows, though milk of 
goats and ewes is sometimes used. The milk is allowed to sour, when it 
separates into a thick, white substance called ctird and a light yellow liquid 
called whey. Cheese is made from the curd by subjecting it to different 
degrees of heat and pressure and by allowing certain bacteria to grow in it 
and by adding flavoring and coloring materials. 

Cheese may be made from skimmed milk, i. e., the hard, cheap cheese ; 
from whole milk, i. e., the soft dairy cheese and from milk to which 
extra cream has been added, as the Neufchatel and Waukesha cheeses. 

Cheese contains on the average one-third fat, one-third protein and 
one-third water. Cheese is a highly nutritious food, but is rather difficult 
of digestion. As it contains no starch, it should be eaten with starchy 
foods, such as bread and macaroni. 



Welsh Rarebit. 

Beat the eggs slightly; add mustard, salt 
and cayenne. Put the milk and cheese in the 
upper part of a double boiler, and, when 
cheese is melted, add butter. Pour this rnix- 
ture over the eggs, return to double boiler, 
stir constantly until thick and smooth, then 
oour over slices of toast anai serve at once. 



1/2 lb. cheese, grated, 
^ c. milk or cream, 

1 tsp. mustard, 
V2 tsp. salt, 

^ tsp. cayenne, 

2 eggs, 

1 tbsp. butter. 



22 



Cuic'mnati Public Schools 



Cheese Souffle. 

Put the butter into a saucepan and, when 
hot, remove from fire ; add flour and stir until 
smooth; add hot milk and seasoning. Return 
to fire and cook two minutes ; remove to back 
of stove and add the well-beaten yolks and 
cheese. Set away to cool. Add the whites of 
egg beaten stiff; turn into a buttered mould; 
bake in a moderate oven until brown — about 
30 minutes. Serve the moment it comes from 
the oven. 

Cheese Straws. 

Cream the butter ; add flour, crumbs and 
cheese, then add seasoning, mix thoroughly 
and add milk. Roll out one-quarter inch 
thick, cut one-quarter inch wide and' six inches 
long; bake until brown in moderately hot oven. 



3 tbsp. butter, 

3 tbsp. flour, 

34 c. milk, 

IX tsp. salt, 

1/2 tsp. cayenne, 

1 c. cheese, grated, 

3 eggs. 



1 tbsp. butter, 

2-3 c. flour, 

1 c. bread crumbs, 

1 c. cheese grated, 
% tsp. salt, 

y^ tsp. pepper or paprica, 

2 tbsp. milk. 



MACARONI. 

Macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli and other Italian pastes are made from 
the glutinous flour of hard wheat. The flour is madie into a stiff paste 
with hot water, and is then placed in an iron cylinder, the end of which is 
closed by a disk pierced with holes. A piston forces the paste out through 
these threads, rods or tubes, according to the shape of the openings. 
When dry, the threads form vermicelli (Italian for little worms) ; the 
rods, spaghetti (Italian for cord,) and the tubes, macaroni (Italian for 
crushed.) Italian macaroni is dried by hanging over wooden rods in the 
open air or in ovens ; American macaroni is laid on flat frames. These 
pastes absorb about three times their weight in water in cooking. They 
are so rich in gluten that they are almost equal to meat as a food, es- 
pecially if cooked with cheese. 

Boiled Macaroni. 
Cook macaroni in the boiling, salted \yater 
20 to 30 minutes or until soft ; turn it into a 
strainer; pour over it a cup of cold water to 
prevent pieces from clinging together ; reheat 
and) serve hot, with butter, salt and pepper, or 
in a white sauce. Grated cheese may be added 
to the sauce, chopped egg or ham. 



Baked Macaroni and Cheese. 
Boil the macaroni in the water for twenty 
minutes, or until soft, adding salt when nearly 
cooked. Drain in a strainer and rinse with 
cold water. Put a layer of macaroni in a but- 
tered baking dish, sprinkle with cheese ; re- 
peat until all the cheese and macaroni have 
been used ; pour the white sauce over the top ; 
cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
these are brown. In macaroni recipes spa- 
ghetti may be used. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. 
Hold the sticks of spaghetti in a bunch and 
dip the ends into boiling, salted water, letting 
them coil around in the saucepan. The spag- 
hetti may thus be cooked without breaking. 
Boil for twenty minutes, or until soft; drain, 
rinse with cold water (to remove starch that 
might make it sticky), and mix with the to- 
mato sauce. 



1 c. macaroni, broken in 

inch pieces, 

2 qts. boiling water, 
1 tbsp. salt. 



54 c. macaroni, broken 

in 1-inch pieces, 
2 qts. boiling water, 

1 tbsp. salt, 

^ to 5^2 c. grated cheese, 
white sauce, 

2 tbsp. flour, 
IH tbsp. flour, 
1 c. milk, 

Yj tsp. salt. 
Buttered crumbs. 



1/3 box spaghetti, 

1 tbsp. salt, 

2 quarts boiling water, 
VA c. tomato sauce. 



Course of Study 



33 



Tomato Sauce. 

Cook the onion with the tomato five min- 
utes ; mix butter and flour together ; strain 
the tomato and) add to it the butter and flour. 
Cook all together until smooth, then add salt 
and pepper. 



1 c. tomato (canned of 

steamed), 

2 tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. flour, 

1 tsp. chopped onion, 
14 tsp. salt, 
14. tsp. pepper. 



EGGS. 

The eggs of many birds, both wild and domestic, are used for food. 

Structure. 

If an egg is broken it will be found to consist of the shell, the white, 
the yolk and membranes. The most conspicuous membrane is the one 
which lines the shell ; another thin membrane encloses the yolk. The white 
of an egg consists of a thick, central portion with a thin, watery portion 
surrounding it. It has been found that this white is composed of millions 
of tiny cells filled with clear, sticky and nearly colorless liquid known as 
albumen. The walls of these cells are very thin membranes, which are 
ruptured or broken when the egg is beaten, allowing the contents to es- 
cape. The shell of the egg is porous and consists almost entirely of car- 
bonate of lime. 

The weight of an average-sized egg is about two ounces. Owing to 
the porous nature of the shell, the water inside evaporates and air enters 
to take its place, therefore the longer the egg is kept, the lighter it be- 
comes. A fresh egg will sink at once when placed in water ; the older the 
egg the nearer the surface it will float. 

Eggs grow steadily poorer the longer they are kept, even if not decid- 
edly spoiled. The spoiling of eggs is due chiefly to the growth within them 
of bacteria, which may enter the shell either from the place where the egg 
has been lying or by means of the air which goes through the porous shell 
as the water evaporates. 

Preservation. 

Eggs may be preserved for several months or a year by any method 
which excludes the air. This is done by packing eggs in bran, oats, saw- 
dust, salt, etc. ; by coating the surface with vaseline, parafine or other sub- 
stances, or by covering them with lime water. They are also preserved 
by "cold storage," being kept at a temperature just above the freezing 
point. 

Nutritive Value. 

Since in all cases the egg is designed to furnish the sole source of nu- 
triment for the growth of the young bird or other animal to be developed 
within it, it is evident that the egg must contain all the elements required 
for the purpose ; hence eggs are called one of the perfect foods. They are 
as nutritious as meat and fish, but, taken alone, are a too concentrated food. 

Composition. 
The egg consists practically of these substances ; protein, fat, water, 
and mineral matter, the average composition of the edible portion of hens' 
eggs being as follows : 

Per cent. 

Water 73.7 

Protein 14.8 

Fat : 10.5 

Mineral matter 1.0 

The nutritive materials of eggs being principally protein and fat, they 
resemble in this respect such animal foods as milk, cheese and meat. Their 
lack of carbohydrates explains the combination of eggs with food materials 
containing them, as flour, sugar, etc. 

The white of eggs contains albumen in the purest form in which it 
occurs in nature, and so is taken as the type of albuminous foods. Al- 
bumen contains nitrogen, the element essential to tissue-building. 



24 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



Experiments. 
No. I. Effect of cold water on albumen? 
No. II. Effects of acid on albumen? 
No. III. Effect of heat on albumen? 

Fill out the following diagram: 



TEMP. 


APPEARANCE 


DIGESTIBILITY 


Raw 

150° F. 
185° F. 
212° F. 




' 



Experiments to Find Out the Best Temperature for Cooking Eggs. 

No. I. Cook an egg in boiling water three minutes. 

No. II. Put an egg in boiling water; remove from the fire and let 
stand 8 to 10 minutes. 

No. III. Put an egg in cold water, bring to boiling point. Give 
results. 

Selecting and Testing Eggs. 

1. Fresh eggs should have a thick, rough shell and feel heavy. 

2. Hold an egg between the eye and the light. If clear, it is fresh. 

3. Drop an egg in cold water. If it sinks, it is fresh. 

4. Shake the egg near your ear. If the contents rattle, it is some- 
what stale. 

Eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. The shells should be washed 
before the eggs are used. When using several eggs, break each one sep- 
arately into a cup. In this way a poor egg may be detected. To keep an 
egg from drying after it is removed from the shell, mix with it a tea- 
spoonful of water; cover, and keep in a cool place. Whole yolks may be 
covered with cold water and then kept in a cool place. 

Recipes — Soft-Cooked Eggs. 

Put into a saucepan enough boiling water to cover the eggs. A gen- 
eral rule is to allow one pint of water for two eggs and an extra cupful for 
each additional egg. If eggs are very coldi, use more boiling water. Place 
the eggs in the water with a spoon and cover the saucepan ; remove at once 
from the fire to table and let stand 8 to 10 minutes according to size of 
eggs. Serve in heated cups. 

Hard-Cooked Eggs. 

Cook in same manner as soft-cooked eggs, placing saucepan on back 
of stove, where it will keep hot, but not boil, for 30 minutes. 

Poached Eggs. 

Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each egg and keep it hot. Have 
ready a shallow pan containing enough boiling salted water to cover the 
eggs, allowing 1 tsp. salt to 1 pt. water. Before putting in the eggs place 
the pan where the water will keep hot, but not boil. Break each egg into 
a saucer and slip carefully into the water. Cook until the white is firm 
and a film forms over the top of yolk. Pour water over yolk with a spoon 
if necessary. Remove eggs from the water with a skimmer or griddle- 
cake turner; drain; trim off rough edges and place each egg on a slice 
of toast. Add salt, pepper and butter to taste. Buttered muffin rings or 
egg poachers are often used to keep in shape. If a scum forms on water, 
remove it before eggs are put in. 



Course of Study 



25 



6 eggs, 
1 tsp. butter, 
]4 tsp. mustard, 
^ tsp. pepper, 
% tsp. salt. 



they are 



4 po-QTc: 

1/2 tsp. salt, 

Vs tsp. pepper, 

4 thsp. milk or water, 

1 tbsp. butter. 



Stuffed Eggs. 
Cook six eggs 30 minutes ; remove the shells 
and cut crosswise; remove the yolks and mash; 
add butter, salt, pepper and mustard. When 
smooth, add enough vinegar to make a paste. 
Fill the whites with the mixture. Smooth the 
top. Arrange each half on a bed of fine pars- 
ley or lettuce. If liked, add half the quantity 
of potted ham or deviled ham or tongue. 

Beating Eggs. 
Beating entangles much air in fine bubbles in the albumen. Beat yolks 
in a bowl with a fork or Dover beater until light colored and thick. Beat 
whites on a platter with fork or wire beater or in a bowl with a beater. 
Eggs are beaten slightly when whites and yolks are well mixed. Whites 
are beaten stiff when they are thick and can be cut with a knife; 
dry and flaky. 

Foamy Omelet. 

Separate yolks from whites. Beat the yolks 
until thick: add salt, pepper and milk. Beat 
whites until dry ; cut and fold them into the 
first mixture. Butter the sides and bottom 
of a hot omelet pan ; turn in the mixture, 
spread evenly. Cook slowly until well puffed 
up and a delicate brown underneath ; place the 
pan on the grate of the oven to cook the top. 
The omelet is cooked if firm and dry when 
touched by the finger. 

Fold over, turn on a hot platter and serve 
immediately. If desired pour one cup thin 
white sauce around the omelet. 

Spanish Omelet. 
Beat eggs slightly, add salt, -pepper and 
milk. Put butter into a hot omelet pan ; when 
melted, pour in the mixture. As it cooks, prick 
with a fork to let the uncooked part run un- 
derneath. When creamy and brown on the 
bottom, fold and turn onto a hot platter. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 
Melt the butter, add chopped onion and pep- 
per ; cook until onion is light yellow; add the 
tomato and simmer until moisture has nearly 
evaporated. Add salt and cayenne. 

Scrambled Eggs. 
Beat eggs slightly, add salt, pepper and milk. 
Put the butter into a hot, smooth omelet pan : 
when melted pour in the mixture. Cook until 
of a creamy consistency, stirring from the 
bottom of the pan as it thickens. Serve on 
slice of hot, buttered toast. 

Eggs a la Golden Rod. 
Cook the eggs thirty minutes. Make a white 
sauce. Separate the yolks and whites of the 
eggs. Chop the whites and add to the sauce. 
Arrange four slices of toast on a platter, pour 
sauce over it. Rub the yolks through a strain- 
er or vegetable press over the top. Cut the 
remaining slices of toast into points. Garnish 
with toast points and parsley. Serve four 
persons. 



4 eggs, 

4 tbsp. milk, 
14 tsp. salt, 

14 tsp. pepper, 
2 tbsp. butter, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. minced onion, 
Small piece red or green 
pepper, 

1 bay leaf, 
l^c. tomato, 
%. tsp. salt, 

f. g. cayenne pepper. 

5 eggs, _ 
14 c. milk, 
14 tsp. salt, 

Vs tsp. pepper, 

2 tbsp. butter. 

3 hard cooked eggs, 
1 c. thin white sauce. 

White sauce: 
1 c. milk, 
1 tbsp. butter, 
1 tbsp. flour, 
1/2 tsp. salt, 
yi tsp. pepper, 
5 slices toast. 



2G 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



EGGS AND MILK. 
For custards, be sure that the eggs afid milk are perfectly fresh. 



Cup Custard. 

Mix eggs slightly and stir in the sugar and 
salt, then slowly the hot milk. When sugar 
has dissolved, pour into cups (about six) and 
grate a little nutmeg over each custard. Set 
the cups in a pan of hot water, and bake in a 
moderate oven till a pointed knife inserted in 
custard comes out clean. Do not let the water 
in the pan boil. Serve plain or with' caramel 
sauce. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Melt the sugar to a syrup of light brown 
color, add water. Simmer ten minutes. Cool 
before serving. 

Soft Custard. 

Heat milk in double boiler. Mix egg yolks 
with sugar and salt. Pour hot milk over the 
mixture till the egg is all removed from the 
side of the bowl. Return to double boiler, and 
cook till custard coats the spoon, stirring con- 
stantly. Strain, and, when cool, flavor. If 
the custard curdles, pour into cool dish and 
beat vigorously with a Dover egg beater. If 
diesired, the whites of the eggs may be beaten 
stiff, poached in hot water and served on top 
of custard. 

Gold and Silver Custard. 
Make a cup custard, using the whites of 
eight eggs. Use yolks for a soft custard. 
Turn out cup custards, then cool and pour 
soft custard around them. 

Tapioca Cream. 
Soak tapioca in enough water to cover, in 
double boiler. When the water is absorbed 
add the milk and cook until transparent. Beat 
sugar and salt into yolks of eggs and pour the 
hot tapioca over the mixture, stirring well. 
Return to double boiler quickly, and cook two 
or three minutes. Remove from fire, add van- 
illa and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs. Serve cold. 



1 qt. scalded milk, 
4 to 6 eggs, 
Yz c. sugar, 
34 tsp. salt. 
Nutmeg. 



Yi c. sugar, 

Yz c. boiling water. 



2 c. milk, 

3 egg yolks, 
J4 c. sugar, 

Y tsp. salt, 

Y tsp. vanilla. 



4 tbsp. pearl tapioca, 
or 2 tbsp. minute tapi- 
oca, 

1 pt. milk, 

2 eggs, 

Ys c. sugar, _ 
Y tbsp. vanilla. 



SUGAR. 

Sugar is made for common use from sugar cane, sugar beets and ma- 
ple sap. This sugar is called sucrose. Honey is the purest natural form 
of sugar. 

Glucose, or grape sugar is found in honey, fresh fruits and on the skin 
of dried fruits, such as raisins, dates, etc. It is also made for commercial 
purposes from the starch of corn by boiling it with an acid. 

The sugar of milk is called lactose. 

Sugar made from sugar cane and sugar beets is the kind most com- 
monly used. The products of sugar cane are molasses, brown sugar, gran- 
ulated, cut loaf, powdered and confectioner's sugar. 

Only white sugar is made from beets. 

Sugar is very easily digested, as it dissolves so readily. It is very nec- 
essary food when taken in small quantities. It produces heat and energy 
in the body ; children, being more active than grown people, naturally crave 
more sweets. 



Course of Study 



37 



Evil Effects of Sugar. 

If sugar in any form is left on the teeth, it will ferment and cause 
them to decay. 

If too much of it is eaten at one time, part of it will ferment in the 
stomach and interfere with the digestion of other food. 

Effects of Heat on Sugar. 

Experiment.— Heat a little sugar in a test tube. Notice the change. 

What forms on the side of the tube? Place a lighted match at the top, 

what is burning and what is the color of the flame? What is left in the 

tube? Sugar is heated to different degrees for different kinds of candy. 

Soft Ball. 
When a little dropped in cold water, can be rolled into a soft ball. 

Thread. 
When a little dropped from a spoon, spins into fine thread. 

Hard Ball. 
When dropped into cold water, it becomes hard. 

The Crack. 
When tried in cold water it becomes brittle. 



Fudge. 

Boil sugar, chocolate (or cocoa) and milk 
together until it reaches the soft ball stage. 
Remove from the fire and add butter and 
flavoring. Beat till creamy and thickened. 
Pour quickly into a greased pan. When firm, 
cut in squares. 

Penoche. 

Boil sugar and milk to the soft ball stage. 
Remove from the fire, add butter, flavoring 
and nuts. Beat till creamy and thickened ; 
pour into a greased tin, and when firm, cut 
in squares. 

Peanut Brittle. 

Break peanuts in pieces, or chop them. Line 
a greased pan with the nuts. Put sugar into 
a sauce pan, and heat till it becomes a thin, 
light brown syrup, stirring constantly. Pour 
over peanuts, and mark in squares. When cool, 
break in pieces. 

Molasses Candy. 
Boil until it is brittle when tried in cold 
water. Pour in a buttered pan. When cool, 
pull until light colored. 

Cooked Fondant. 

Boil all together until it makes a soft ball 
when tried in cold water. Turn out on a large 
platter, and when cool work it with a spatula 
and the hands until creamy. Divide into por- 
tions and flavor to taste. Shape into choco- 
late creams, cream dates, nut creams and bon- 
bons. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Note. — Sugar becomes, at 365 deg. F. a clear, 
colorless liquid, barley sugar. At 420 deg., the 
sugar turns brown. It is now caramel. 

Melt sugar to a syrup of light brown color, 
add water. Simmer ten minutes. Cool before 
serving. 



2 c. sugar, 

1 c. milk, 

2 tbsp. butter, 

1 tsp. vanilla, 

y^ 2-oz. cake of bitter 

chocolate. 
Or 4 tsp. cocoa. 

2 c. brown sugar, 
54 c. milk, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
1 tsp. vanilla, 
1 c. chopped nuts. 



2 c. sugar, 

^ to 1 c. shelled peanuts. 



2 c. molasses, 
1 tbsp.. vinegar, 
% tsp. soda. 



2 c. sugar (fine granu- 
lated,) 
y^ c. cold water, 
]/^ tsp. cream tartar. 



sugar, 
boiling w^ter. 



28 



Cijicinnati Public Schools 



2 c. sugar, 

1 c. boiling water, 

1 tsp. cream tartar. 



Glace Nuts. 
Put ingredients in a saucepan, stir and heat 
to the boihng point. Boil without stirring until 
the syrup reaches the crack,- 310 deg. F. Re- 
move any granulations of sugar from sides of 
saucepan. Remove saucepan from the fire and 
place instantly in a large pan of cold water 
la stop boiling. Remove from the cold water 
and place in a pan of hot water during dip- 
ping: .Take nuts separately on a long pin, dip 
in syrup to cover, remove from syrup and 
place on oiled paper. If syrup begins to crys- 
talize, set back on stove until it just comes to 
a boil. 

MEAT. 
Meat is the flesh of animals used for food. 
1. Domestic animals. 
Meat 2. Game. 

3. Poultry. 

1. Domestic animals means the flesh of cattle, sheep, swine, called 
in mature animals, beef, mutton, pork, while in the young animals the calf 
is called veal, lamb is called lamb. 

2. Game is the flesh of wild animals and birds. 

3. Poultry is the flesh of barnyard fowls. 

The flesh of mature animals is more nutritious and more easily 
digested than that of the young. 

Beef is the most nutritious meat; mutton ranks next; pork is nutri- 
tious, but difficult to digest ; lamb is tender, but is not as valuable as mut- 
ton ; veal is the least nutritious and is difficult to digest; it is liked for its 
flavor and to give variety. 

Good Meat is firm, elastic and a bright, uniform color when first cut; 
the fat is firm, and light straw color or a pale yellow. Lean meat is muscle. 
Much used muscle absorbs much food material, making rich, juicy meat, 
but not always of tender fibre. (Why) ? 

Structure of Meat. 
Muscle, tissue, fat, bone, tendon, juice and skin 

Composition. 

Mineral salts. 

Water. 

Proteid. 

Fat. 

Bone. 

Experiment 1. Soak a piece of bone in vinegar several days. What 
change takes place in bone? What does the acid take out? 

Experiment 2. Lay a piece of bone on a hot fire. What change takes 
place? What part burns away? 

Bone is the hardest animal tissue; it is about one-half water, one- 
third mineral substance, and one-sixth animal matter, mostly gelatine. 

Lean Meat. 

Experiment 1. Examine carefully a small piece of lean beef. Scrape 
with a knife until only fibre is left. What do you see? 

Experiment 2. Cut a piece of beef into small bits, cover with cold 
water. What happens? 

Experiment 3. Sprinkle a piece of meat with salt. What happens? 

Experiment 4. Heat some of the juice of meat in a tube. Compare 
with white of egg. 

Experiment 5. Pour boiling water over a small piece of meat. Why 
does not the water become red? 

Which wouldi you use for soup, boiling or cold water? 

All muscular tissue is made up of bundles of tube-shaped cells filled 
with juice. These tubes are bound together by a web of white connective 



Course of Study 



29 



tissue threaded by tiny blood vessels and streaks of fat. The more connec- 
tive tissue, the tougher the meat. The contents of the muscle fibre or tubes 
consist of a jelly- like substance composed of muscle proteid or myosin, 
combined with water containing albumen, mineral matter and the sub- 
stances which give flavor and color to the meat. These substances and the 
albumen dissolved in the liquid between and around the fibres form the 
juice of the meat. 

Cooking of Meat. 
Meat is cooked to improve the flavor and appearance, also to kill germs 
of other organisms which may be present, and to soften fibre and connec- 
tive tissue. It is prepared so as to extract the juice as in soups, broths and 
beef tea, to retain the juice as in broiling, roastmg, boiling and frying; or 
it may be a combination of both methods, as in stews, where part of the 
juice is retained in the meat and part drawn out to enrich the gravy. 

Bottled Beef Tea. 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth^; cut off 
all the fat and bone and membrane. Cut the 
meat into small pieces, put in a quart glass 
jar; add the salt and cold water. Set in a 
cold place for one hour. Place the jar on a 
trivet in a kettle of cold water, having the 
water reach nearly to the top of the jar. Heat 
the water to the simmering point. Keep at 
this temperature about two hours. Strain 
through a coarse strainer into a hot cup, sea- 
son with a little pepper and more salt to taste. 
Serve immediately. 

Cuts of Meat. 

Loins. — Best quality for roasts and steaks. 

Rump, Tough. — Pot roast and steaks. 

Round. — Fair steak, beef tea, beef loaf. 

Top Sirloin. — Fair steak and pot roast. 

Prime Ribs (six ribs.) — Fine roast. 

Blade (three ribs.) — Fair roast. 

Chuck (four ribs.) — Pot roast and stew. 

Neck. — Stews and soups. 

Brisket. — Corned and boiled. 

Navel. — Corned and boiled. 

Flank. — Steaks, boiled, stew. 

Shoulder. — Soup. 

Shin. — Soup. 

QUARTER 



1 lb. round steak, 

1/2 tsp salt, 

1 pint cold water. 




30 Cincinnati Public Schools 

Soups. 

Soup stock is the basis of all meat soups. It consists of the soluble 
parts of the meat, vegetables and bone, dissolved in water. Soups are 
divided into two classes, soups with stock ; soups without stock. 

Soup is generally an economic food, since a soup, tempting and nutri- 
tious, can be made of the cheapest materials, including remnants of food 
unfit for other use. 

Clear soup is easily assimilated, acting as a stimulant rather than as a 
nutrient. 

When meat for soup comes from the market, remove from the brown 
paper, and wipe it all over with a clean damp cloth. Cut the lean meat 
into small pieces ; by so doing a large amount of surface is exposed to the 
water, and juices are more easily draw out. Put bone, meat and fat into 
a clean soup kettle, and! add as many quarts of cold water as there are 
pounds of meat and bone. Let stand one hour, that the cold water may 
draw juices from the meat. Heat gradually to the boiling point, then lower 
the heat and cook slowly from six to seven hours. A scum will rise on the 
top which contains coagulated albuminous juices. These give the soup 
its chief nutritive value and should not be removed. Vegetables and spices 
should be added) the last hour of cooking. 

A knuckle of veal is often added, which gives the stock when cold a 
jelly-like consistency. Some of the fat is absorbed; the remainder rises 
to the top and forms, when cold, an air-tight covering over the stock, and 
should not be removed until stock is done. From the stock may be made 
macaroni, noodle, vegetable or tapioca soups, by adding, just before serv- 
ing, the boiled vegetables indicated by the name. 

Hints About Soup Making. 

1. Have all trimmings sent home with the meat. 

2. Either kitchen boquet or caramel is used, to darken soup. 

3. The kettle should be closely covered to keep in the steam and the 
savory odors. 

4. Stock made without vegetables keeps best in hot weather. 

5. It is best to use the stock the day after it is made. 

6. Stock used instead of water in meat gravies makes them richer. 

7. At its best soup only contains about 5% of nutritious material. 

8. The soup meat may be used, ad'ding to it seasonings, such as pars- 
ley, onions, etc. 



Meat Soup Stock. 
Brown one-third of meat in hot frying pan, 
in marrow from bone; put remaining two- 
thirds with bone and fat in soup kettle; add 
water; let stand for thirty minutes; place on 
back of range: add browned meat and heat 



6 lbs. shin of beef, 
6 qts. cold water, 
J/2 tsp. pepper corns, 
6 cloves, 

1 bay leaf, 

2 sprigs parsley, 
carrots. 



to boiling point. Cook slowlv keeping below . P ' 



boiling point during cooking; add vegetables 
and seasonings : cook one hour ; strain and 
cool as quickly as possible. 



Vegetable Soup. 



onions, 

celery, 

14 c. each cut in dice, 

1 tbsp. salt. 



2 c. stock, 

1 tbsp. carrot cut into 
Wash and scrape the carrot; pare the turnip i 5^-inch dice, 
and cook in boiling water ^ hr., or until ■ 1 tbsp. turnip cut into 
tender; drain and add to the boiling stock; ! i/2-inch dice, 
season. j % tsp. salt, 

spk. pepper. 
Clear Soup. 
Qearing soup is a wasteful process, but it is sometimes desirable. 
When stock is thoroughly cold skim off every particle of fat, add slightly 
beaten white of egg and crushed egg shell. Allow one egg to one quart of 
stock. Place on the fire and stir until it boils. Boil five minutes or until 
it breaks free from scum ; simmer gently fifteen minutes, add tiny piece of 



Course of Study 



31 



ice or a little cold water; remove carefully from fire and pour through 
a wet cloth into bowl. If not clear, strain again. Add flavoring, reheat 
and serve. 

COOKING OF TOUGH MEATS. 

Meat, to be wholesome, must come from a healthy animal ; to be nutri- 
tious, from a well-nourished one. Much-used muscles absorb much food 
materials, making rich juicy meat. This is, however, tougher than that of 
parts less used, because the connective tissue and fibre which makes meat 
tough increase as well as the contents of the muscle tubes. 

Exercise also draws a large quantity of blood to the muscle, conse- 
quently tough muscle contains more juice than other muscles. Tough cuts 
of meat are inexpensive, and if properly cooked so as to rendler the connec- 
tive tissues digestible, have as high, if not higher, food value than the 
tender cuts. 

Two facts important to bear in mind in cooking meats are: (1) Heat, 
by causing the collagen in the connective tissue to swell, tends to force the 
juices out of the muscle fibres. (2) Dry heat hardens connective tissue. 
In order to soften and dissolve the connective tissue, tough meats must be 
cooked) in moist heat. There are three ways of doing this, stewing, boiling 
and braising. 

In the boiling process the meat is plunged into boiling water and cooked 
at this temperature 10 or 15 minutes. Then simmer until the meat is 
tender. By this means much of the juice and flavor is kept in the meat. 

Braising is the cooking of meat with a small amount of water, in the 
oven in a tightly covered pan. Cuts not tender enough for roasting, but 
of a better quality than those used for stews, are cooked in this way. 

Stewing is cooking for a long time in water below the boiling point. 
The purpose of stewing meat is to keep part of the juice in the meat and 
to extract part to flavor the gravy. Some of the meat is put on in cold 
water and the remainder is browned in the frying pan before ad'ding. Meat 
for stews should contain some bone and fat. The bone makes the stew 
gelatinous and the fat gives the desired richness. Various vegetables are 
used in stews to give flavor and thickening and different herbs and spices to 
season them. By far the best way to cook stews is in the double boiler ; 
then one can be sure that the temperature never reaches the boiling point. 
Beef Stew. 
Remove the fat and cut the meat into 1-inch 
pieces; put aside 14 cup of the best pieces of 
meat. Put the rest of the meat and bone into 
cold water and soak for 1 hour ; then heat 
until it bubbles ; season l4 c. of meat and roll 
it in flour. Melt the fat in a frying pan; re- 
move the scrap's, brown the sliced onion and 
then the floured meat in the hot fat; add both 
to the stew and cook for two hours at the sim- 
mering point; add the vegetables and flour 
which has been mixed with 5^ cup cold water, 
and cook 1 hour, or until the meat and vege- 
tables are tender; remove the bone; season 
with salt and pepper and serve. 

Scotch Broth. 
Remove the fat and bone and cut the meat 
into 1-inch pieces ; soak in 2 quarts cold water 
for one hour then bring quickly to the boil- 
ing point. Drain the barley which has been 
soaked in cold water over night and add to the 
broth. Cook 2 hours at the simmering point. 
While the meat is soaking soak the t)ones 
in another quart of water for 1 hour; then 
heat slowly and boil for 2 hours. Strain and 
add liquid to the broth. Add the vegetables 
and cook until tender; add seasonings and 
chopped parsley just before serving. 



2 lbs. beef from the leg, 
1 onion sliced, - 
yo c. carrots diced, 
14 c. turnips diced, 
4 potatoes cut in J/^-inch 
slices, 

1 tsp. salt, 

^ tsp. pepper, 

2 tbsp. flour, 
4 c. water. 



3 lbs. neck of mutton, 

3 qts. water, 

J4 c. pearl barley, 

yl c. carrot, 

% c. celery, 

14 tsp. pepper, 

1 tsp. chopped onion, 

1 tbsp. pepper, 

2 tbsp. flour, 
1 tbsp. salt, 

1 tbsp. minced parsley. 



32 Cincinnati Public Schools 

Beef Loaf. 



Mix all the ingredients together. Shape into 
a loaf and place in a baking pan. Dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper; put bits of butter on 
top ; place in hot oven, and when meat is 
brown, cover bottom of pan with hot water. 
Baste every fifteen minutes. Bake large loaf 
one hour; small one, half hour. 



2 lbs. round steak, 

ground, 
1 c. crumbs, 
1 tsp. salt, 
% tsp. pepper, 
sage or chopped corn, 
1 beaten egg, 
tomato if desired. 



Boiled Ham or Tongue. 

Put into cold water andi heat gradually until the water bubbles. Cook 
at the simmering point until tender. Remove from the fire and allow it to 
stand in the water in which is was cooked for one hour. Take it out and 
draw ofif the skin. It may be served cold. A ham may be covered with 
fine bread crumbs and 2 tbsp. of sugar, then placed in the oven one-half 
hour to brown. 

TENDER MEATS. 

Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat over red-hot coals or to 
the flame in the broiling oven of a gas range. 

In broiling, the object is to retain the juice of meat. It should be ex- 
posed to great heat long enough to coagulate the albumen and shrink the 
fibres on the surface, thus forming a coating which will keep the juice in- 
side. As broiling is a quick process of cooking, only tender portions of 
certain meats should be broiled. Tender portions of beef, mutton and 
lamb and also bacon, very young chickens, small fish, lobsters and oysters 
may be broiled. Poi'k and real should not be broiled, as they need 
thorough cooking". 

Broiled Steak. 

Heat the broiler andi grease it to keep meat from sticking; remove extra 
fat and wipe the meat with a damp cloth ; place in broiler and place near 
the fire or flame; count ten and turn. Repeat until both sides are brown, 
then move broiler further from the fire or lower the flame until meat is 
cooked. Place on hot platter; season with pepper and salt and serve at 
once. 

Pan-Broiled Chops. 

Heat frying pan very hot; trim the chops; remove fat and wipe with 
damp cloth ; put chops in frying pan. When one side is seared, turn and 
sear the other ; then cook the inside more slowly. Turn the chops fre- 
quently, but do not pierce them with a fork while turning. Cook from six 
to ten minutes, according to thickness of chop. Season with salt and pep- 
per; arrange on hot dish and serve at once. 

Roasting. 
General Directions. — Wipe meat; trim and skewer into shape; dredge 
all meats except beef with salt, pepper and flour. Beef roasts may be 
seared in hot pan on top of stove; then place roast on rack in pan in hot 
oven. When meat is brown, cover bottom of pan with water and reduce 
the heat and cook more slowly. Beef and mutton require from 12 to 18 
minutes per lb. ; veal and pork, require from 20 to 30 minutes per lb. 

Warmed-Over Meats (Rechauffes.) 
Delicious meat diishes may be prepared from remnants of cooked meat. 
Learn to combine the materials on hand, varying the regular recipes. 

To Prepare. — Remove all bone and gristle and for hash trim oi¥ the 
fat. Save all bones for soup stock; save all fat for frying out. Cut meat 
in half-inch cubes or, chop fine. If meat is tender and well cooked, reheat 
only; if it is tough or underdone, simmer until tender, saving the cooking 
water to make a sauce. Season rather highly, as much of the flavor is lost 
in the cooling. Do not cook meat long the second' time, as in so doing it 
is rendered indigestible. 



Course of Study 



33 



Hash. 

If using uncooked potatoes, cut fine; cook 
in boiling water to cover until tender; add po- 
tatoes and seasonings. If using boiled pota- 
toes, add other ingredients and heat. Parsley 
may be chopped and added if desired. To 
brown, add two tbsp. milk ; cook, unstirred, 
and fold like omelet. 

Corned Beef Hash. 

Chop the meat moderately fine ; push it to 
one side of the tray; chop the potatoes and 
mix them with the meat ; season and heat over 
hot water or in frying pan over moderate 
heat. 

Minced Meat on Toast. 

Chop beef, ham or any cold meat fine; sea- 
son ; warm in gravy sufficient to moisten ; 
spread on slices of crisp toast dipped in salted 
hot water. 

Meat Souffle. 

Make the white sauce, and while hot add 
meat and seasonings and yolks of eggs beaten 
light and set away to cool. When wanted, 
beat whites of eggs very stiff; add them to 
the meat; put all in a buttered dish and bake 
twentv minutes. Serve immediately or it will 
fall. 



2 c. chopped, cooked 

meat, 
2 c. finely cut potatoes, 
1 tbsp. butter, 
1 tbsp. flour, 
1 tbsp. drippings, 
J4 small onion, 
1 c. water, 
14 tsp. salt. 

1 c. corned beef (about 

'A fat,) 

2 c. boiled potatoes. 
Few drops of onion 

juice, 
A very little pepper. 

2 c. cooked meat chop- 
ped) very fine, 

1 qt. milk, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
4 tbsp. flour, 

1 tsp. salt, 

^A tsp. pepper, 

1 tbsp. parsley, chopped, 

1 tbsp. lemon juice, 

1 spk. nutmeg, 

1 spk. cayenne, 

2 eg^s. 



SALT MEATS. 
Corned Beef. 
Wash quickly in cold water. Beef that is very salty should be soaked 
in cold water; if only slightly salted, use boiling water that the goodness 
may be kept in the meat. Cover with boiling water and skim carefully 
when it begins to boil. Cook slowly, simmering, not boiling, until so tender 
that you can pick to pieces with a fork. Let the water boil away toward 
the last, and let the beef stand in the water, uncovered, until partially cool. 



Frizzled Beef. 
Have the beef cut in fine shavings ; pour 
the boiling water over it and let it stand 10 
minutes ; drain and cook it in 2 tbsp. of butter 
to curl or frizzle it. Melt the remaining two 
tbsp. of butter in a saucepan ; add the flour 
and pepper, stir until smooth, then add the 
riiilk slowly. Let it boil up once and pour it 
over the well-beaten egg. Add the beef, re- 
heat and serve at once. 

Creamed Cod Fish. 
Pick the fish into small pieces and let it 
st&nd covered with fresh water on the back of 
the stove until softened. Drain ; melt the but- 
ter, add the flour and pepper and stir until 
smooth; then add the milk slowly. Let it boil 
up once, add the egg, slightly beaten ; add the 
fish, reheat and serve on toast. 

FISH. 
In fish we have a food similar in general character to meat, yet dif- 
ferent from it in some ways. As ordinarily used, the term fish includtes, 
besides the back-boned fish, many other forms of sea food, such as 



% lb. dried beef, 

1 c. milk, 

4 tbsp. butter, 

2 .tbsp. flour, 
Spk. pepper, 
1 egg. 



1 c. salt cod fish, 

1 c. milk, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. flour, 
Spk. pepper, 

1 egS- 



34 Cincinnati Public Schools 

oysters, clams and other mollusks, lobsters, shrimps, crabs, terrapin and 
turtle. Fish proper are distinguished from shell fish by being vetebrate. 
They are divided into two great classes — fresh water fish and salt water 
fish, and these are sub-dividled into the white meat fish, or those having 
fat only in the liver, such as red snapper, and the dark meat fish, or those 
having fat distributed over the body, such as salmon or mackerel. 

Food Value and Digestibility of Fish. 

The food value and digestibility of fish is very similar to that of lean 
meat. As it is less stimulating, it is especially suited to the needs of brain 
workers, who take little exercise. It is more desirable as a means of vary- 
ing the diet than as a staple of food, although it is the proteid food in 
many coast towns where sea food is cheap and meat hard to obtain. Fish 
kept too long is watery when cooked. Fish may be prepared in a -number 
of ways, such as steaming, broiling, frying, baking and boiling, and should 
be served with some food containing starch or fat, as it is lacking in these 
principles. 

Selecting Fish. 

The flesh should! be firm, the eyes bright and the gills bright red. Fish 
brought far inland should be dressed before being shipped. 

Cleaning Fish. 

Rest the fish on the back and cut on the under side, so as to expose 
the entire body cavity. Remove all the internal organs, being careful not 
to break the gall sac. The kidneys, lying directly under the back bone, 
should be scraped away. Wash quickly, dry with clean towel, andl, if 
the fish is not to be used at once, sprinkle with a little salt and put away 
in a cold place. 

Baked Fish. 

Fish suitable for baking whole are cod, haddock, cusk, bluefish, small 
salmon, bass, shad, whitefish. 

After the fish has been cleaned remove the eyes and fill the body cavity 
with the dressing allowing room for it to swell slightly. Sew up the fish 
using strong thread, skewer and tie in the shape of the letter S. Butter 
and dredge with flour, place on a rack or fish sheet in a baking pan. If the 
fish is very dry, cut gashes in it crosswise and insert strips of salt pork. 
Bake the fish in a moderate oven until the flesh is brown and may be 
pierced without the juice running out; remove the strings and skewers, 
garnish with lemon and parsley and serve. 



Dressing for Baked Fish. 

Mix all together and add enough boiling 
water to bind the crumbs together. 



1 c. cracker crumbs, 
1 tsp. chopped pickle, 
1 tsp. capers, 
1 tsp. chopped parsley, 

1 pcrcr 

% tsp. salt, 

]/i tbsp. melted butter, 

1 tsp. scraped onion. 



Steamed Fish. 
Skin and cut the meat from the bone, cutting the meat as close to the 
bone as possible. Butter a plate, lay on the fish, cover with another plate 
and steam over hot water from 20 minutes to 14 hour. This may be 
cooked in the oven in the same manner. 

Broiled Fish. 

Fish suitable for broiling: split — mackerel, young cod, blue fish, white 
fish, shad, trout, etc. Sliced — halibut and salmon. Whole — smelts, perch 
and other small fish. 

Remove the head and tail and split the fish down the back. Use a 
close-barred, double wire broiler. Grease it when hot with salt pork rind. 
Wipe the fish dry, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and if not oily, rub it 



Course of Study 



35 



with melted butter. Broil split fish flesh side to the heat until brown, then 
broil the other side till the skin is crisp. Broil small fish close to the heat, 
turning occasionally. Turn slices of fish often. When cooked, carefully 
loosen from the broiler and slip off on to a hot platter. Spread with 
butter, salt and pepper; use fish sauce; garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon ; serve. 



Drawn Butter Sauce. 
Mix flour, salt and pepper with one-half the 
butter; pour on the water and stir over the 
fire until the sauce boils. Add the rest of the 
butter in bits, stirring until it is absorbed. 
Serve on fish. 

Hot Tartare Sauce. 

Mix the vinegar, lemon juice, salt and sauce, 

and heat over hot water ; brown the butter 

and add very slowly to this mixture ; keep 

warm, but do not boil ; serve with broiled fish. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 
Cream the butter; add the yolks of the eggs 
and beat well together ; then add the lemon 
juice, salt, paprica and hot water slowly to 
the yolks and butter. Cook in double boiler, 
stirring constantly, until the sauce becomes 
like thick cream. When done, remove from 
the fire and stir and beat with a Dover egg 
beater about five minutes. Serve with fish 
hot or cold. 



3 tbsp. flour, 
V/^ c. water, 
y2 tsp. salt, 
f. g. pepper. 



Ys c. butter, 
1 tbsp. vinegar, 
1 tsp. lemon juice, 
14 tsp. salt, 

1 tbsp. Worcestershire 
sauce. 



14 c. butter, 
yolks of 4 eggs, 
juice of ^ lemon, 
]/2 tsp. salt, 
% tsp. paprica, 
1 c. hot water. 



Fried Fish. 
Large fish may be boned and cut into slices. Small fish, like smelts, 
may be cooked whole. Season with salt and pepper and cover with com 
meal, flour or crumbs and egg. Cook in deep, hot fat ; drain on paper. 
Serve on a hot dish ; garnish. 

OYSTERS. 
Oysters, clams, mussels and scallops or salt water shell fish belonging 
to the family of mollusks, or soft bodied animals. Oysters are in season 
from September to May. They must, under all circumstances, be fresh 
when used ; when stale they are poisonous. 

To Clean. 
Put in a wire strainer or colander; drain, saving the liquor if it is to 
be used; then pour one-half cupful of cold water over one quart of 
oysters: more water will wash away the flavor. With the fingers examine 
the gills to see that no bits of shell are left clinging to them. 

Composition. 
Oysters have about the same composition as milk, containing carbo- 
hydrate matter which most flesh foods lack. They are easily digestible, but 
not cheap, costing about five times as much as milk. 



Panned Oysters. 
Drain and wash oysters : heat an iron skillet 
or spider; put in the butter, when hot; care- 
fully drop in the oysters ; shake and stir until 
plump, add salt and pepper and serve on a 
hot dish. 



, 25 oysters, 
2 tbsp. butter, 
% tsp. salt, 
Ys tsp. pepper. 



36 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



Creamed Oysters. 
Drain and wash oysters; put the liquor and 
oysters in a stew pan ; heat until the gills are 
curled; drain, saving the liquor. Make the 
white sauce, add the oyster liquor ; stir in the 
oysters ; stand over hot water a few minutes 
and they are ready for use. This is used for 
filling pate shells. 

Stewed Oysters. 
Drain and wash oysters ; put the strained 
liquor in a stew pan ; heat oysters in it till 
edges curl; remove the scum; heat milk and 
add oysters and liquor then the butter and 
flour rubbed together, then salt and pepper. 
Serve very hot with oyster crackers. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Mix the crumbs with the salt, pepper and 
butter; spread one-third of them on the bot- 
tom of a buttered baking dish; put in half the 
oysters, drained and rinsed; another layer of 
crumbs and the rest of the oysters, covering 
the top with the remaining crumbs ; pour over 
these the liquid ; add a little milk if there is 
very little liquid. Bake about twenty minutes 
in an oven hot enough to brown the crumbs 
.in that time. 

Fried Oysters. 

Drain and wash oysters ; dry on cheese- 
cloth or soft towel; beat egg until mixed, al- 
lowing one egg to each dozen oysters ; add one 
tbsp. water to each egg; dip oysters in fine 
dried bread crumbs, then in beaten egg, then 
in crumbs. Prepare all the oysters before be- 
ginning to fry. Heat fat in a deep pan, until 
a piece of bread dropped in will brown in 
twenty seconds'; put oysters in a frying basket, 
six at a time; plunge in the hot lard or suet; 
fry until brown; drain on soft brown paper. 

SCALLOPED DISHES. 
Scalloped Fish. 
Use cooked fish or canned salmon. Flake 
the fish, removing skin and bone ; mix with 
white sauce and place half in baking dish. 
Sprinkle with buttered crumbs ; pour in rest 
of fish and cover top with crumbs. Bake in 
moderate oven about 20. minutes. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Mix crumbs with salt, pepper and butter ; 
spread one-third of them on bottom of baking 
pan ; put in half the oysters drained and rinsed, 
another layer of crumbs, and the rest of the 
oysters; cover the top with crumbs; pour over 
the liquid ; bake about 20 minutes in moder- 
ately hot oven. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Wash and pare potatoes; slice across in thin 
slices; place half in pan; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and butter; fill pan; season; cover with 
crumbs ; pour over it the milk and bake in 
oven 45 minutes. 



25 oysters, 

2% tbsp. flour, 

2^ tbsp. butter, . 

1 c. milk, 

yz tsp. salt, 

% tsp. pepper, 

1 tiny piece of mace. 

25 oysters, 
or 1 pt., 

1 tbsp. flour, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
1 c. milk, 
J/2 tsp. salt, 
Ys tsp. pepper. 

25 oysters, or 1 pt., 
1/3 c. butter, 

1 c. dried bread or 
cracker crumbs, 

2 tbsp. melted butter, 
J4 tsp. salt, 
% tsp. pepper, 

3 or 4 tbsp. oyster liquid, 
a little nutmeg or 
ground mace, if de- 
sired. 



2 dioz. large oysters, 

2 eggs, 

14 tsp. salt, 

yi tsp. pepper. 



1 pt. fish, 

1^ c. white sauce, 
^ c. crumbs, 

2 tsp. butter. 



1 qt. oysters, 

2 c. stale crumbs, 
14 c. melted butter, 
1 tsp. salt, 
14- tsp. pepper, 
oyster liquid or milk, 
or both, 6 tbsp. 

6 large potatoes, 

1 tsp. salt, 
% tsp. pepper, 

2 tbsp. butter, 
1 c. milk, 

3 tbsp. butter. 



Course of Study 37 

Other vegetables, such as corn and tomatoes, may b'e scalloped. 

Scalloped Eggs. j 

Chop egg finely; sprinkle bottom of baking 
dish with crumbs; cover v^rith one-half the 6 hard cooked eggs, 
eggs, eggs with meat, meat with sauce; repeat. % c. chopped meat, 
Cover with remaining crumbs. Place in oven % c. buttered crumbs, 
on centre grate and bake until crumbs are 1 pt. white sauce, 
brown. Ham is the best meat to use for this 
dish. Chicken, veal or fish may be used. 

CROQUETTES. 
Materials. 
The usual croquette mixture consists of two parts of chopped, cooked 
meat or cooked, flakedl fish to one part of thick white sauce. Chicken, veal, 
cheese, macaroni, rice and potatoes may be made into croquettes. 
Rice and potato croquettes do not need white sauce. Why? 

Shaping and Crumbling. 
Put on a board a heap of dried crumbs, sifted, shredded wheat or bread 
crumbs. Break an tgg into a plate, add) a tablespoon of water and beat 
enough to mix. With two spoons or spatules shape croquette mixture into 
balls ; roll them into cylinders, roll them in crumbs. Lift them into the egg 
one by one, dipping egg over them until every bit of surface is covered; 
roll them in crumbs again and lay them carefully aside. If allowed to 
stand for thirty minutes so the albumen may harden, they are easier to 
handle. Fry in frying basket in deep fat smoking hot. When golden 
brown, lift the basket, drain and set the croquettes on soft paper in pan to 
remove fat. Arrange on platter, garnish and serve. 

White Sauce for Croquettes. 
2 tbsp. butter, 1 c. milk, J4 c. flour, 1 tsp. salt, J/s tsp. white pepper. 

Salmon Croquettes. 
2 c. flakedl salmon, 1 c. thick white sauce, 1 tsp. lemon juice, ]/i tsp. 
salt (parsley may be added.) 

Chicken Croquettes. 

2 c. cooked chicken chopped fine, 1 c. thick white sauce, 1 tsp. onion 
juice, 1 tsp. nutmeg. 

Potato Croquettes. 

2 c. mashed potatoes, Y?, tsp. white pepper, ^ tsp. salt, J4 tsp. celery 
salt, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 yolk. 

Beat the yolk ; mix it with the potato and add' other ingredients. Heat 
the mixture in a saucepan, stirring; when it leaves the side of the pan, turn 
it into a flat dish, when cool, shape into cylinders, roll in eggs and crumbs 
and fry. 

SANDWICHES. 

Sandfwiches are best when prepared just before serving, but for the 
lunch or picnic ' basket they may be kept wrapped in confectioners' or 
paraffine paper. For large companies they may be kept wrapped in a damp 
cloth, wrung as dry as possible, then surround with a dry cloth, or cover 
the sandwiches, neatly piled, with a large earthen bowl. 

The rules for salads hold good at all times for sandwiches. Any 
variety of bread twenty-four hours old may be used. Sometimes two 
varieties are combined in the same sandwich. Let the bread, freed from 
crust, be cut into slices one-eighth inch thick. Use the trimmings for bread 
sauce, puddings, or bread crumbing. Cream the butter to insure its spread- 
ing smoothly and evenly. Avoid spreading either the butter or the filling 
over the edges. When slices of meat are used, let them be cut as thin as 
wafers and use more than one in each sandwich. Cold meats may be 



38 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



minced fine and a little saladi dressing used with them. Salted meats and 
fish give sandwiches a very pronounced flavor ; acid in the form of lemon 
juice, chopped pickle or capers is an improvement to these and all fish 
sandwich mixture. Sweet sandwiches are offered with cocoa and tea; 
bread or lady fingers, yellow or white, may be used as a foundation for 
these; jams marmaladtes, etc., are the usual fillings. Sandwiches are daintier 
if made small. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 
Remove the skin and bone from the sar- 
dines ; mince fine with the yolks of eggs and 
the butter; season to taste with paprica and 
lemon juice. Spread crescent or other shaped 
pieces of bread with the paste and press to- 
gether in pairs. Serve on a napkin ; ornament 
the dish with cress and slices of lemon. 



6 sardines, 

6 hard cooked egg yolks, 

3 tbsp. butter, 

lemon juice, 

paprica. 



1/2 c. lean ham, 

2 tbsp. fat ham, 

Yi c. butter, 

2 tbsp. white sauce, 

yolks of 4 hard-cooked 

^ tsp. prepared mustard, 
1 tsp. chopped capers. 



1 c. raisms, 
14 c. sugar, 
i^ c. English walnuts. 



Ham and Egg Sandwiches. 
Mince the meat very fine ; add the season- 
ings and eggs ; mash all together to a smooth 
paste. Spread on buttered bread prepared for 
sandwiches and press two pieces together ; 
serve at once. 

Lettuce Sandwiches. 
Prepare the bread as for sandwiches and 
butter it. Lay one or two tender lettuce leaves 
on a slice of bread spread with a thick cooked 
salad dressing, and press another slice of bread 
over it. Trim off the edges and serve at once. 

Boston Brown Bread Sandwiches. 
Cut the bread very thin and spread lightly 
with butter. Stew the raisins until soft; add 
the sugar and cook a few minutes longer ; 
drain off the juice, grind or chop fine; also 
grind the nuts fine, then add to the raisins 
and mix well. Spread on the brown bread 
and press together in pairs. Serve at once. 

FLOUR. 

Kinds. 

Wheat, rye, corn, buckwheat, rice, barley and some other grains. 

They are milled by cleansing, grinding and bolting. 

Wheat is the most important and is an annual grass of an unknown 
origin, but very old, and grows in all moderate climates. When it is ripe 
and ready to cut the grain is a light yellow ; it is then separated from the 
husk and stalk. Each grain of wheat has four coatings ; the outside is 
hard and is called bran ; the next contains gluten ; the third, fat and germ, 
the fourth or center, starch. 

There are two kinds of wheat and they yield different flour. 

Winter or Soft. — Winter or soft is sown in the fall ; endures cold and 
dampness of the winter; is soft and starchy, and is used for cake and 
pastry. Why? 

Spring or Hard. — Spring wheat is sown in the spring; grows up 
quickly and is hardL Grows mostly in Northern States. 

This spring wheat yields a flour rich in gluten, makes an elastic dough, 
necessary to produce light bread. It is known (1) by its creamy color; 
(2) its great capacity for absorbing water; (3) its gritty feeling; (4) and 
by caking slightly when squeezed in the hand. 

Experiment 1. Mix one-fourth cup of flour to a stiff dough with a 
little water ; knead in a fine strainer ; set in a bowl of water. What is left 
in the strainer? Feel it. Spread some to dry. Heat some in an oven. 
What happens? 



Course of Study 



39 



Experiment 2. Test sediment in water in two ways. 

Composition. 
All foodstuffs necessary for growth of body. 
Starch, fat, water, gluten and mineral salts. 
Gluten is valued as a tissue-builder. 
Mineral salts, as bone and nerve-builders. 

Batters and Doughs. 

Dough means "that which is moistened." 

Batter means "that which is beaten." 

Pour Batter is one measure of liquid with one to one and a half meas- 
ures of flour. 

Drop Batter is one measure of liquid with two measures of flour. 

Dough is a mixture stiff enough to be handled on a board. 

A soft dough is one measure of liquid to three measures of flour. 

A stiff dough is one measure of liquid to three or more measures of 
flour. 

A mixture of flour and liquid, when cookedl, would be hard and indi- 
gestible; it needs something to lighten it. The simplest means would be by 
beating air into it. Beating forms small bubbles, which expand when 
heated. Compare with soap bubbles. 

Baking hardens the walls of the bubbles and prevents them from 
breaking. 

Eggs are a great help in making mixtures light. The cold air which 
has been beaten into the eggs expands as soon as the mixture gets hot to 
several times its original volume. The walls of the little air cells consist 
of egg albumen, which hardens almost immediately, preventing the escape 
of the heated air. 

Thin batters, like popover mixtures, contain more water than is needed 
to combine with the starch of the flour. So some of it is changed; to 
steam, which helps in raising the mixture. 



POUR BATTERS. 

POPOVERS. 

Mix salt and flour; add milk gradually; 
add egg, unbeaten, and the melted butter ; 
beat five minutes with a fork or Dover egg 
beater. Pour into hot buttered iron gem pans 
or popover cups and bake thirty or thirty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Griddle Cakes. 

Sift flour, salt and baking soda together; 
separate eggs ; beat yolks light, stir the milk 
into the flour. Add the beaten yolk and beat 
all together until well mixed ; beat whites and 
add last, folding in carefully. Have griddle 
hot and using a piece of beef suet on a fork 
or drippings applied with a swab made by 
tying a strip of clean cloth around the end of 
a stick or fork; grease the griddle all over. 
Bake by spoonfuls, and as soon as the cakes 
are full of bubbles, turn quickly with a broad 
knife or cake turner. Never turn twice. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. 

Pour milk over rice and salt; all yolks of 
egg beaten until thick and lemon colored ; add 
butter, then flour, and last the white of eggs 
beaten stiff. 



1 c. flour, 
14 tsp. salt, 
J-^ c. milk, 

1 egg, 

1 tsp. melted butter. 



2 c. flour, 
Yz tsp. salt, 

1 tsp. baking sodia, 

2 c. sour milk, 
2 eggs. 



1 c milk, 

1 c. warm boiled rice, 
1/2 tsp. salt, 

2 egg yolks, 

1 tbsp. melted butter, 
7^ c. flour, 

2 egg whites. 



40 Ciiiciiinati Public Schools 

Cream Puffs. 
Heat the butter and water until the water 
comes to a boil. Add the flour all at once and 
mix thoroughly. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until the mass leaves the sides of the pan in 
a smooth ball of dough. Add the eggs un- 1 c. hot water, 
beaten and one at a time. Beat until thor- /^ c. butter, 
oughly mixed. Drop by tablespoonfuls on but- 1 ^- pastry flour, 
tered baking sheets and bake in a moderate 4 eggs, 
oven thirty or thirty-five minutes. When cool, 
fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flav- 
ored or with cream filling. 

Cream Filling. 
Mix flour, sugar and salt ; add the hot 

milk and cook until thick and smooth. Pour jA c. flour, 

this into the eggs which have been beaten % c. sugar, 

slightly and cook over hot water for a few y^ tsp. salt, 

minutes. Remove from the fire, and, when 2 c. hot milk, 

cool, add flavoring. Make a small hole in the £ eggs, 

side of each cream pufif and with a teaspoon 1 tsp. vanilla. 
put it in. 

BATTERS LIGHTENED WITH GAS. 
Corn. 

With the exception of wheat, corn is raised more than any other grain 
in North -America. It contains a great deal of starch and more fat than 
any cereal, and is, therefore, a good winter food. It also contains a large 
amount of muscle-building substance and mineral salts, and is a good food 
for strong, active people. 

From corn are made hominy, grits, cornmeal, cornstarch and corn flour. 
The grains of corn are first dried, then ground up fine and coarse, to make 
the diflferent products. 

_ Cornmeal spoils very easily, so keep only a small amount on hand at 
a time. 

Cornmeal is scalded to soften the starch; the time in the oven is not 
long enough to thoroughly cook it otherwise. 

IMOLASSES. 

The sweet juice obtained by crushing the stalks of sugar cane is boiled 
down to a thick syrup. As it cooks, part of it separates into crystals. 
Molasses is theremaining liquid, which will not crystallize. Owing to recent 
improvements in sugar making, it is possible to crystallize almost all of the 
juice, so that there is very little molasses left. In consequence the sub- 
stance now sold as molasses is made artificially from glucose, colored and 
flavored with a little of the true product. In the United States a con- 
siderable amount of molasses is made from the sorghum plant. It is never 
made from beets. Molasses contains about 30% of water, a large amount 
of sugar and certain salts and acids. It is used on account of its agreeable 
flavor, in making such dishes as gingerbread, steamed puddings, etc. Also 
to supply the acid necessary to set free the carbon dioxide from the soda. 

Baking Soda is one of the class of substances called carbonates. It 
is an alkali rnade from common salt. It is the only alkali used in cooking. 

When acid is addedl to an alkali or carbonate, in the presence of moist- 
ure, a gas is forrned called carbon dioxide, which produces effervescence. 
This carbon dioxide formed in the batter from the union of the baking 
soda and the acid in the sour milk or molasses expands when heated; 
making the mixture light and porous. 

Experiment No. 1. Mix soda and sour milk. 

Experiment No. 2. Mix soda and water. Note the results and com- 
pare. 



Course of Study 



41 



Experiment No. 3. Put a little molasses into a glass ; add some baking 
soda and warm water. What happens? Repeat, using cream of tartar, 
vinegar and lemon juice instead) of the molasses. What must the molasses, 
sour milk, etc., contain in order to bring about this reaction? Why will 
not the cornbread made by the following recipe be sour? 



CoRNBREAD No. 1. 

Sift the meal and scald with boiling water; 
allow to cool. Sift flour, salt- and sod'a to- 
gether and add to the cornmeal and slightly 
beaten egg. Add milk and lastly the melted 
butter. Pour into a hot greased pan or gem 
pans. Bake in a moderate oven twenty min- 
utes or until browned nicely. 

Cornbread No. 2. 
Sift dry materials together and chop in 
butter. Beat tgg and add to milk and pour 
slowly into dry materials, mixing well. Pour 
into hot greased pan and bake in moderate 
oven about thirty minutes. (This may be 
mixed in same manner as batter cake). 



2 c. meal, 
1 c. flour, 
1 c. sour milk, 
Y\ c. boiling milk, 
1 tsp. salt, 
y2 tsp. soda, 
1 ecc 

1 tbsp. melted butter, 
lard or drippings. 

54 c. flour, 
% c. cornmeal, 
214 tsp. B. P., 
^ tsp. salt, 
1 tbsp. butter, 
1 tbsp. sugar, 
1 or 2 eggs, 
54 c. milk. 



Directions for Steaming. 
A mould or tightly covered tin can may be used:; it should be thor- 
oughly greased, and, if it has no cover, a strong piece of greased brown 
paper may be tied over the top. Place the moulds in a steamer over boiling 
water, or on a rack in a kettle of boiling water. Keep the water boiling, 
and, as it evaporates, replenish with more of the same temperature. When 
steamed long enough, place the moulds, uncovered, in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 2 c. cornmeal. 

Sift the dry ingredients together several 2 c. graham flour, 
times. Mix the molasses and sour milk to- 2 tsp. soda, 
gether and add to the dry ingredients; beat ^ tsp. salt, 
well. Put into greased moulds and steam ~ c. sour milk, 
three hours. 1 c. molasses. ^ • 

Fruit Pudding. 
Mix and sift the flour, salt, baking powder 
and nutmeg. Add the raisins and currants ; 
mix the molasses and sour milk with the suet. 
Combine the mixtures and beat thoroughly. 
If put into small molds, steam 1]/^ hours; if 
in a large mold, 2^ hours. 

Hard Sauce. 
Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually, 
beating until light and creamy; add the flav- 
oring and beat again! 

Lemon Sauce. 
Mix the sugar and flour thoroughly, then add 
the boiling water slowly. Cook five to eight min- 
utes, stirring constantly. Add the lemon rind 
and juice, "then the butter. Stir until but- 
ter is melted, then serve at once. If sauce is 
too thick, add a little water. For vanilla sauce, 
substitute 1 tsp. vanilla for the juice and rind 
of the lemon. 



2 c. flour, 

4 tsp. baking powder, 

^ tsp. salt, 

lA c. beef suet chopped 

fine, 
^ c. molasses, 
y2 tsp. nutm.eg. 
lA c. raisins. 
y'2 c. currants, 
14 c. sour milk, ' 

4 tbsp. butter, 

y2 c. powdered sugar, 

^ tsp. vanilla or nutmeg. 



2 c. boiling water, 

1 c. sugar, 

2 tbsp. flour, 

2 tbsp. butter, juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon. 



42 



CinciiDiati Public Schools 



Foamy Sauce. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and va- 
nilla and the yolk of the egg beaten stiff; add 
the boiling water slowly. Beat the white until 
stiff; add this to the other ingredients and 
beat until the whole mixture is light and 
foamy. 

Yellow Sauce. 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick; add one-half 
the sugar gradually ; beat the whites of the 
egg until stiff; add gradually the remaining 
sugar. Combine mixture and add vanilla. 



.3 tbsp. butter, 

1/2 c. powdered sugar 

1 tsp. vanilla, 

1 egg, 

J/2 c. boiling water. 

2 eggs, 

1 c. powdered sugar, 

2 tsp. vanilla. 



BATTERS LIGHTENED WITH GAS AND EGGS. 
Study of Spices. 

Spices are parts of aromatic plants used to season foods. They belong 
to that class of substances spoken of as condiments. As the term is gener- 
ally used, condiments are eaten with meat and combined with salt, itself 
a condiment; while spices are usually added to articles containing sugar. 

Condiments have no food value, but are valuable in modterate quan- 
tities, as they serve to make the food more palatable and by their taste and 
odor stimulate the flow of the digestive juices. 

The spices most commonly used are cloves, cinnamon, pimento or all- 
spice, nutmeg, mace and ginger. 

Cloves are the flower buds of an evergreen tree found in the East 
Indies. 

Cinnamon is the inner bark of a tree similar to the laurel. 

Cassia is the inner bark of a species of cinnamon called Chinese cin- 
namon. 

Nutmeg is the kernel of the fruit of an evergreen. 

Mace is the thin covering of the nutmeg. 

Ginger is the root of a flag-like plant. 

Allspice consists of the berries of the cassia tree. They are called all- 
spice because their aroma resembles that of a variety of spices. 

I 14 tsp. salt. 

I ]4 tsp. soda. 
Sift together, flour, soda, salt and spices. 1 1 tsp. ginger, 
Cream together the sugar and shortening; j }4- tsp. cinnamon, 
add the molasses and stir in part of the milk 1?^ c. flour, 
and part of flour until all is added ; add the 
eggs well beaten ; pour in greased and floured 
pan and bake in hot oven about 30 minutes. 



Gingerbread. 



Gingerbread Without Eggs. 

Sift flour, salt and spices together; add 
half the soda to the milk and half to the mo- 
lasses, beat each until light, ad'd to the flour 
and spices; add the melted butter; pour into 
greased and floured pan and bake in moderate 
oven about 30 minutes. 



Molasses Cookies. 

Cream butter and sugar and add the mo- 
lasses. Sift in the ginger and cinnamon; add 
the soda dissolved in the water and sift in 
enough flour to make a soft dough. Roll 
^-inch thick. Cut out and bake in hot oven. 
Whole wheat flour may be used instead of 
white flour. 



^ c. sugar, 
ys c. shortening, 
3^4 c. molasses, 
V2 c. sour milk, 
1 or 2 egofs. 



2i/4c. flour, 
^ tsp. salt. 

1 tsp. cinnamon, 

2 tsp. ginger, 
2 tsp. soda, 

1 c. sour milk, 
1 c. molasses, 
4 tbsp. butter. 

fX c. butter, 
14 c. sugar, 
1 c. molasses, 
1 tsp. ginger. 
1 tsp. cinnamon, 
1 tsp. soda, 
% c. water, 
214 c. flour about. 



Course of Study 



43 



DOUGHS MADE LIGHT WITH BAKING POWDER. 
A dough is a stiff mixture of flour, liquid and other ingredients. 

Approximate Rule for Proportions. 
Soft dough, one measure of liquid to three measures of flour. 
Stiff dough, one measure of liquid to four measures of flour. 
Pastry flour is most used in baking powder mixtures. When bread 
flour is substituted, take two tablespoonfuls from each cup. Baking powder 
mixtures should be handled as little as possible and cooked as soon as 
mixed', generally in a hot oven. 

Batters and doughs are made light and porous by the presence of a 
gas, which expands by the heat during the cooking. 

_ Carbon dioxide is obtained by the action of yeast during fermentation 
or is set free by chemical action from different substances containing the 
elements of which it is composed. 

Baking Powder. 

Experiment 1. Put one-fourth teaspoonful of soda and one-half tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar into a glass. Mix and pour hot water over it. 
What is the effervescence? 

Experiment 2. Put one teaspoonful of baking powder into a glass ; 
pour hot water over it. 

Experiment 3. Pour cold water over one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Which causes the more rapid escape of gas? 

The best baking powders are made of bicarbonate of soda, cream of 
tartar and a small quantity of cornstarch. The cornstarch is used to 
absorb moisture and keep the mixture dry. 

Bicarbonate of soda (cooking soda) is an alkaline substance contain- 
ing carbon dioxide. It is made from salt. 

Cream of tartar is an acidi substance made from crystals called argols, 
deposited on the sides and bottoms of casks containing grape wine. 

Acids and alkalies are opposite in their nature. 



Recipe for Baking Powder. 
Sift the soda; add cornstarch and sift five 
times; add cream of tartar; mix thoroughly 
and sift six or seven times ; keep in tin or 
glass cans closely covered. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients ; chop in the 
shortening with a knife until fine, like meal ; 
add about half the milk, then add more grad- 
ually to make a soft dough, mixing with a 
knife. When smooth, turn the dough on to a 
floured board, pat or roll out about one-half 
inch thick. Cut with a floured biscuit cutter; 
place close together on a baking pan. Bake in 
a hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. Equal parts of 
water and milk may be used instead of all 

™^^^- Fruit Dumplings. 

I\Iake a dough as for biscuits ; pat and roll 
out one-fourth inch thick. Cut into four-inch 
squares; place in the center of each square an 
apple or other fruit, sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon or nutmeg. If the fruit is hard, 
first steam five to ten minutes. Moisten the 
edges of the dough with cold water ; fold so 
that the corners meet and the fruit is covered ; 
press the edges together. Place in a greased 
pan and bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes. 
The dumplings may be steamed by placing 
them in a buttered pan or paper and cooking 
in a steamer over boiling water one-half hour. 
Serve with cream or a sweet sauce. 



J4 lb. bicarbonate of 

soda, 
y^ lb, and 1 oz. cream of 

tartar, 
% lb. cornstarch. 



2 c. flour, 

3 tsp. baking powder, 
14 tsp. salt, 

2 to 3 tbsp. shortening, 
about 34 c. milk. 



Dried, fresh or canned 
fruits. 



44 Ci)iciiinati Public Schools 



Short Cake. 
Cream the butter and add the sugar grad- 
ually; sift the flour and baking powder to- 
gether and add to the mixture alternately with 
the milk. Bake in a buttered pan 20 minutes 
in a hot oven. When done, remove from pan, 
cut edges with a hot knife and then split cake 
in half; butter lightly. Cover first half with 
crushed fruit, sweetened to taste. Place sec- 
ond half over it and garnish the top with 
fruit. Serve with whipped cream. Straw- 
berries, raspberries, peaches or stewed fruits 
may be used. 



2 tbsp. butter, 

^ c. sugar, 

y3 c. milk, 

1^ tsp. baking powder, 

iy2 c. flour, 

14 tsp. sa,lt. 



DOUGHS LIGHTENED WITH YEAST. 

Yeast is a vegetable germ or plant of the fungus family, to which 
mushrooms and toadstools belong. Yeast plant needs no light, and like 
other fungi, it grows and multiplies rapidly. It is the simplest form of 
vegetable life, being only a small cell with a thin skin and full of a liquid 
which contains the germ life. It is generally oval in shape and so small 
that it can not be seen without a very strong microscope. Undier a micro- 
scope new cells may be seen building out of old ones, forming branching 
chains. These cells are found in fruit juices and sprouting grains. Like 
all plants, yeast is killed^ by extreme heat and its growth is retarded by 
extreme cold. It grows best and quickest at temperatures between 72 and 
90 degrees Fahrenheit. It needs water, and either some nitrogenous food- 
stuff's, such as gluten, or some mineral matter containing nitrogen, to 
feed upon. 

Three kinds of yeast are used for bread-making — dry, liquid and com- 
pressed. A good compressed yeast cake is known by its light, even color. 
Liquid yeast is yeast cultivated in a mixture of potatoes, sugar, water and 
hops. 

The Growth of Yeast by Experiments. 

1. Mix one tablespoonful flour, one of sugar and three-fourths of a 
cake of yeast to a smooth paste with one-fourth cup lukewarm water. 
Divide the mixture between three test-tubes. 

2. Place one test-tube in boiling water. 

3. Place one test-tube in lukewarm water. 

4. Place one test-tube in cold water or crackedl ice. 

5. Place one-fourth of an yeast cake in a test-tube and mix with luke- 
warm water; and place in lukewarm water; with salt; sugar. 

Give results. Compare the amount of gas formed under the different 
conditions. 

Bread dough is the best soil for growing yeast. The yeast changes 
some of the starch into a kind of sugar, and the sugar into carbon dioxide 
gas and alcohol. The gas, being lighter than the dough, rises, andi in its 
effort to escape, puffs up the elastic glutinous mass to two or three times 
the original size: when this expansion has reached the desired limit, we 
check the fermentation by kneading and baking. The alcohol escapes in 
the oven ; some of the starch is changed into gum or dextrine and forms 
the brown crust. If the fermentation goes too far, acetic fermentation sets 
in and gives the bread a disagreeable taste and smell. 

Bread is Baked. 

1. To kill the ferment. 

2. To make the starch soluble. 



Course of Study 



45 



J/2 c. milk, 

y^ c. water, 

^2 tsp. salt, 

1 tbsp. sugar or molasses, 

1 cake yeast, 

^4 c. lukewarm water, 

3 to 3V2 c. flour. 



3. To drive off alcohol and carbon dioxide. 

4. To form a brown crust. 

When bread is done, it will not cling to the sides of the pan, and may 
be easily removed. Remove loaves at once from the pans and place side 
down on a wire cooler. If a soft crust is desired, cover with a towel while 
cooling. 

Whole Wheat Bread. I 

Put salt, sugar or molasses in a mixing bowl, 
add milk and water ; when cool add the yeast 
that has been mixed with one-furth cup luke- 
warm water, then stir in half the flour. Beat 
until full of bubbles; then add enough more 
flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead: 
turn out on a slightly floured board, leaving a 
clean bowl. Knead until smooth and elastic. 
Shape into loaves, place in a greased pan, 
brush over with melted butter ; cover ; let rise 
to double its bulk and bake in a hot oven 
about three-quarters of an hour. 



White Bread — Quick Process. 
Put salt, sugar and shortening into mix- 
ing bowl ; pour on hot milk and water. When 
mixture is lukewarm add dissolved yeast. Stir 
in enough flour to make a batter; beat well^ 
then add more flour, a little at time to make 
a stiff dough, mixing with a knife. Turn on a 
floured board; knead until it is smooth, elas- 
tic and does not stick to the board. Put into 
a greased bowl, cover closely and let it stand 
in a warm place (about 75 F.) until double in 
bulk. This will take between two and three 
hours. Knead again until fine grained; shape 
into a loaf and place in a warm greased pan. 
Cover and put in a warm place. When double 
in bulk, bake in a hot oven. Bake fifty to 
sixtv minutes. 



1/2 tsp. salt, 

1 tsp. sugar, 

1 tsp. shortening, 

l4 c. hot water, 

1/2 c. hot milk, 

1 cake yeast, 

34 c. lukewarm water, 

3 c. bread flour. 



Bread — Slow Process. 
Use one-half as much yeast; allow the bread 
to rise over night; knead the second time in 
the morning. Proceed the same as in the 
quick process. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk ; when 
lukewarm add dissolved yeast and three cups 
of flour. Beat well, cover and let rise until 
light. Beat again; add flour to make a stiff 
dough and knead; let rise until double in bulk; 
toss on floured board, pat and roll out about 
one-third inch thick. Cut out with floured 
biscuit cutter; crease through the center of 
each roll with the floured back of a knife ; 
brush one-half of each with melted butter, 
fold the press together. Place in greased pan 
one inch apart; cover; set in a warm place 
until double in bulk. Bake in hot oven 12 to 
15 minutes. 



2 c. hot milk, 
.^ tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. sugar, 
1 tsp. salt, 

1 yeast cake dissolved in 
^4 c. lukewarm water, 
6 c. flour about. 



4G 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



German Coffee Bread. 
Add sugar to milk. When lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast and flour to make a batter. 
Cover and let rise; add salt, melted shorten- 
ing, egg well beaten, flour to make a soft 
dough and raisins. Cover and let rise again. 
Spread in a buttered baking pan about one 
inch thick ; cover and keep in a warm place 
until double in bulk. Before baking brush 
top with beaten egg and cover with the fol- 
lowing mixture : Melt three tablespoons of 
butter; add one-third cup of sugar and one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon. When sugar is partly 
melted add three tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Spread on cake ; bake, cake about 40 minutes. 



I c. hot milk, 
■/3 c. shortening. 
]4 c. sugar, 
14 tsp. salt, 

1 pcrrx 

lA cake yeast dissolved 
in % c. lukewarm 
water, ' 

V^ c. stoned raisins, flour. 



CAKE. 

All cakes belong to one of two classes — butter cakes and cakes made 
without butter, or sponge cakes. Butter cakes include cup cake, pound 
cake, spice cake, etc. Sponge cakes includies angel and sunshine cakes. 

General Directions. 

Good cake requires good materials — good butter, fresh eggs and fine 
granulated or powdered sugar. 

Use pastry flour and sift before measuring. 

Never melt butter; if hard, warm the boWl before creaming. 

Butter cakes are varied by changing the flavoring; by adding nuts, 
fruits, chocolate or spices. 

For chocolate cake melt the chocolate over hot water and add' after 
the yolks of eggs. 

Dredge raisins and currants with flour and add to the mixture just 
before the egg white. 

Spices are sifted several times with the flour and baking powder. 

Order of Work. 

1. Get out all necessary utensils and materials, then make all meas- 
urements. 

2. Light the gas range, or, if using a coal range, arrange the dampers 
so that the oven will be ready by the time the cake is mixed. 

3. Prepare pans and mix the cake. 

4. Before adding the flour test the oven. 

A butter cake usually contains from one-third to one-half as much 
butter as sugar, and about half as much liquid as flour. 

Butter or other shortening counts as liquid, since it melts in the oven. 

A cake with fruit should be a little stiffer than one without. 

Sour milk and) molasses do not thin a mixture as much as sweet milk 
or water. 

Preparation of Pans. 

For butter cakes grease the pan with lard or butter and dredge slightly 
with flour. For large cakes, line the pan with paper and grease it. 

Sponge cakes are baked in ungreased pans if the pans are kept exclu- 
sively for sponge cakes. 

The Oven. 

The oven should he less hot for cake than for breadi It is right foi; 
butter and sponge cakes baked in loaves if' it turns a piece of writing paper 
light brown in five minutes. For layer and small cakes it should be hotter. 

Bake loaf cakes from forty-five minutes to one hour ; layer cakes and 
small cakes, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. The cake is done when 
it shrinks from the side of the pan. When a knitting needle or clean straw 
put into it comes out clean, or when pressed lightly on top with the finger 
the cake springs back into place. 



Course of Study 



47 



To turn out of the pan, loosen around the edges with a knife and slip 
out on a wire cake cooler or a clean towel. If it sticks, turn it upside 
down, place a damp cloth over the bottom of the pan and let it steam for 
a few minutes. 



Plain Cake. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, grad- 
ually, then yolks of eggs, well beaten. Sift 
flour and baking powder together and add to 
the mixture alternately with the milk ; add 
the flavoring and last the whites of eggs beat- 
en stiff. 

For chocolate cake add after the egg yolks 
one and one-half ounce, or three tablespoon- 
fuls of chocolate melted over hot water. 

For gold cake, use the yolks of four eggs. 

For white cake, leave out yolks and use 
whites of four eggs. 

Sponge Cake. 
Beat the yolks until thick and lemon colored. 
Add the sugar gradually and continue beat- 
ing, then the lemon juice and rind and the 
flour, which has been sifted two or three 
times. Fold in the whites of the eggs, which 
have been beaten stiff. The salt should be 
added to the whites before baking. 

Angel Cake. 

Add the salt to the eggs and beat to a 
foam ; add the cream of tartar and beat un- 
til stiff; sift in the sugar, beating all the 
time; sift in the flour, slowly, mixing it with 
a light folding motion ; add the vanilla. Bake 
in an unbuttered pan in a slow oven about 
one hour. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Mix like butter cakes. When stiff enough 
to roll turn out on a floured board and roll 
out, part at a time, one-fourth of an inch 
thick. Keep board and pin. well floured; bake 
15 minutes on shallow pans. 



Molasses Cookies. 
Mix as for plain cookies. Roll out and 
bake according to directions for plain cookies. 



Boiled Icing. 
Boil sugar and water together until the 
syrup spins a thread. Beat white of egg until 
stiff and on it pour slowly the hot syrup, beat- 
ing continually. When stiff spread on cake. 

Uncooked Icing. 
Sift the sugar, add the orange juice and 
rind, or lemon juice, and enough of the boil- 
ing water to make it spread smoothly. 



J4 c. butter, 

54 c. sugar, 

2 eggs, 

114 tsp. baking powder. 

1^ c. flour, 

^2 tsp. vanilla or 1 tsp. 

spice, 
]4 c. m.ilk. , 



Yolks of 5 eggs, 

1 c. sugar, 

1 tbsp. lemon rind, 

juice of ^ a lemon, 

1J4 c. flour, 

whites of 5 eggs, 

^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. egg whites, 

1^ c. sugar, 

% tsp. cream of tartar, 

% tsp. salt, 

1 c. flour, 

1 tsp. vanilla. 

1/2 c. butter, 
1 c. sugar, 

1 egg yolk, 
]/4 c. milk, 

2 tsp. baking powder, 
about 3 c. flour, 

a sprinkling of nutmeg 
after coolcies are cut. 

1/2 c. butter, 

1 c. sugar, 

2 tbsp. molasses, 

1 pcrcr 

14 c. milk, 

1 t?p. baking powder, 

% tsp. baking soda, 

3 c. flour, 

3 tsp. spices. 

1 c. sugar, 
y3 c. boiling water, 
white of 1 egg, 
1 tsp. vanilla or 
■/2 tsp. lemon juice. 

1^ c. powdered sugar, 
V/2 tbsp. hot water, 
1'^A tbsp. orange juice, 
rind of ^ orange or 
] tsp. lemon peel. 



48 Cincinnati Public Schools 

m 

PASTRY. 

General Rules. 

1. To make good pastry use pastry flour. 

2. Have everything cold. 

3. Always roll the pastry one way. 

4. .In making a short crust, handle as little and as lightly as possible. 

5. If a shining surface is desired, brush with beaten tgg or milk. 

6. Cook pastry in a hot oven and have the heat greatest at the bottom 
so that it may rise before browning. 

7. Pastry is much improved if allowed to stand on ice before using. 
Pastry is difficult to digest because the starch grains must absorb 

water, swell and burst before they can be digested. The small amount of 
water used in making pastry does not furnish enough liquid to accomplish 
this. Moreover, the particles of starch in pastry are enclosed in fat, and 
digestive fluidls can not reach the starch readily. 

Pastry. 

Sift flour, salt and sugar together; chop /^ c. butter, 

in lard and add the water slowly, handling 5^ c. lard, 

lightly. Put the dough on a board, roll out, ^! c. flour, 

spread with butter; fold three times and roll 1 tsp. salt, 

like jelly cake. Cut the pastry across and roll 1 tsp. sugar, 

out to fit size of pie plate. 1 c. ice water. 

Lemon Pie. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold water; 

add the hot water and boil for five minutes ; 

remove from the fire, add the sugar and 

butter well creamed together and mix with 

the yolks of the eggs and juice and grated j ^ boilino- water 
rind of lemon. Line pans with pastry rolled j (,' guo-ar'^ 
one-eighth inch thick; prick the bottom of . tbsp.'co;nstarch. 
the paste and bake. When almost done, fill ^ ^i^g' butter 
the pans to the depth of three-fourths of an o go-crs * 

inch with the lemon filling and cook until the ■ g lemons 
paste is done. Cover with a meringue made 
from the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with 
one tablespoonful sugar to one egg. Cook 
slowly until slightly brown. 

Cheese Straws. ' 
Roll pastry one-eighth inch thick and cut into two pieces. Sprinkle 
one piece with grated cheese, seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper or 
paprica. Place the other half on top of this piece and cut into strips one- 
half inch wide and five inches long. Bake until crisp and brown. 

Apple Pie. 
Linea rather deep pie plate with pastry and fill with tart apples, peeled 
and cut into thin slices. Sweeten, using about one cup sugar for a large 
pie, and season with cinnamon or nutmeg and one tablespoonful butter. 
Cut a large piece of pastry to completely cover the top and' cut in several 
places to allow the steam to escape. Bake in a moderate oven until the 
apples are tender and the pastry cooked. The sugar, butter and cinnamon 
may be omitted until the pie is done, when the top crust is lifted and the 
sugar and seasoning sprinkled over the apples. Cooked in this manner the 
apples are finer flavored. 

GELATINE DESSERTS. 

Gel_atine_ is derived from substances contained in the bones, skin and 

connective tissue of animals. These substances are changed into gelatine 

by_ cooking several hours in boiling water. The connective tissue of young 

animals are especially rich in gelatine-yielding material. Calves' fee't is a 



Course of Study 49 

pure form of gelatine, but the purest form is isinglass a kind of gelatine 
obtained from the bladder of the sturgeon. 

Gelatine contains nitrogen, hence belongs to a class related to the 
proteids called gelatinoids. It cannot build tissue, form muscles, nerves, 
etc., but yields energy and serves other purposes in the body which cause 
it to be known as a "proteid-sparer." 

The food value of gelatine is not high, but it is very easy of digestion, 
and jellies prepared from it form an agreeable addition to the d;iet during 
convalescence, as well as in health. Gelatine is used for medicine capsules, 
photograph films and other purposes, as well as for jellies. 

General Directions. 
First soften the gelatine by soaking in cold water, then dissolve in 
boiling water, but never boil it. If stirred much while hot, the gelatine 
may become stringy and refuse to jell; for this reason do not stir to help 
sugar to dissolve, but keep the gelatine mixture hot by setting the bowl 
over hot water. Strain through cheese cloth into mould and set away to 
cool. Use a mould of earthenware or enameled ware wet with cold water 
just before using. A two-ounce box of granulated gelatine holds five 
tablespoonfuls. 

Fruit jellies may be made by adding various fruits, such as oranges, 
bananas, dates, figs, nuts, grapes, etc., to lemon jelly. 



Lemon Jelly. 
Soak gelatine in cold water; add salt; dis- 
solve in boiling water; add sugar and lemon 
juice; strain into moulds that have been wet 
with cold water and chill. 



1 tbsp. granulated gela- 
tine, 
%. c. cold water, 
54 c. sugar, 
pinch salt, 

1J4 c. boiling water. 
Snow Pudding. I 54 c. lemon juice. 

Make as for above and when gelatine forms 
beat with wire whip or Dover beater until 
fine of grain; whites of three eggs beaten stiff 
may be added. Serve with cream or soft 
custard. 

FROZEN DESSERTS. 

Ice Cream. 

A frozen dessert, most desirable for hot summer days. It is also a 
good food for many invalids, being wholesome, nutritious and cooling. 

Experiment 1. Fill a cup with cracked ice. Take the temperature. 

Experiment 2. Mix four tablespoonfuls of rock salt with the ice. 
Watch the thermometer. 

Melting ice and salt reach a temperature below the freezing point of 
water. If packed' around some other liquid, they draw the heat from it 
so fast that it freezes. 

Directions for Freezing. 
Put the ice into a strong canvas bag and pound until very fine. Use 
rock salt: Proportions: three measures of ice to one of salt. Pack ice 
and salt solidly in the freezer, around the can containing the mixture. 
Turn the crank slowly at first, to permit the mixture to become thoroughly 
chilled, then more rapidly until frozen. Cream frozen rapidly is coarse- 
grained. 

Packing. 
Ice cream is much better if repacked and allowed to stand at least one 
hour before serving. Remove the dasher and repack with ice^and salt, 
using one-fourth as much salt as ice. Cover with newspaper or heavy cloth. 



50 



Cincinnati Public Schools 



1 qt. cream, 
1 c. sugar, 
1 tbsp. vanilla. 



1 pt. milk, 
1 tbsp. flour, 

1 c. sugar, 

2 or 3 eggs, 
% tsp. salt, 

1 pt. cream, 

1 tbsp. flavoring. 



4 large lemons, 
1 orange, 
2y2 c. sugar, 
1 qt. water. 

1 can grated pineapple, 

1 lemon (juice), 

i^ tsp. gelatine (Knox), 

dissolved, 
1 pt. sugar, 
1 qt. water. 



Ice Cream. 
Mix well, being particular to have the sugar 
dissolve before freezing. If cream is too 
heavy, reduce with a little milk. Vanilla bean 
pulverized will give the cream a much more 
delicate flavor than the extract. 

Frozen Custard. 
Scald the milk in a double boiler; beat the 
eggs slightly, adding half the sugar, and pour 
the milk slowly into this, stirring constantly. 
Pour back into double boiler; cook until the 
mixture begins to thicken, about 10 minutes ; 
then add the rest of the sugar; cool; add 
cream and flavoring and freeze. 

Lemon Ice. 
Make a syrup of the water and sugar by 
boiling them five minutes ; add the grated rind 
of the orange and one lemon; cool; then add 
the juice; strain and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water by 
boiling them five minutes ; cool ; add all other 
ingredients and freeze. 

INVALID COOKERY. 

In preparing food for an invalid, the following points should be 
observed: 

The preparation and serving of food is of especial importance in 
illness. Food for invalids should be perfectly cooked, attractively served, 
and all utensils used should! be scrupulously clean. 

Food should be suited to the digestive powers of the patient, and 
should be served in small quantities, just enough to satisfy hunger or to 
furnish needed strength. 

In a severe illness the doctor prescribes the kind and amount of food 
to be given. In long and protracted illness it is necessary to take nour- 
ishing food in small quantities at frequent intervals. In short spells of 
illness it is sometimes best to go without food for a day or more so as 
to give the system complete rest. 

The following foods are easily digested and are given to invalids; 
Milk, eggs (raw or slightly cooked), beef tea, gelatinous jellies, gruels, 
well cooked cereals, raw oysters, juice of oranges, grapes and other fruits, 
frozen desserts. 

Serving Food. 

Use the daintiest dishes in the house. Place a clean napkin on a tray 
and, if possible, a fresh flower. 

Serve everything in small quantities, as it is more tempting to a delicate 
appetite 

Try to surprise the patients by some unexpected food, and in this way 
induce them to take nourishment. 

Serve hot food hot and cold food cold. 

Remove the tray as soon as food is eaten, as food should never stand 
in a sickroom. 



Milk Sherbet. 

Freeze the milk and sugar until partially 
stiffened. Add the lemon juice and freeze 
until stiff. 



VA c. milk, 
% c. sugar, 
yi c. lemon. 



Course of Study 



51 



Lemonade. 
Pare the lemon very thin, using only the 
yellow rind. Put the rind and sugar in a bowl, 
add the boiling water, cover tightly and let 
stand twenty minutes; add the juice and 
strain. This is very strong and may be weak- 
ened with a little ice or cold water. 

Egg Lemonade. 
Beat the egg well and add the sugar and 
lemon juice; add water slowly stirring until 
smooth and well mixed ; strain and serve. A 
little grated nutmeg may be added if liked. 

Egg Nog. 

Beat the . egg, add the sugar, salt and 

flavoring ; heat the milk and add slowly to the 

beaten egg; serve at once. Any flavoring, 

either spirits, vanilla or nutmeg may be used. 

Egg in Nest. 
Beat the white of the egg with a f. g. of 
salt until stiff; pile lightly in an earthenware 
or small baking dish. Make a depression in 
the center of the white and into this slip the 
unbroken yolk. Cook slowly in a moderate 
oven until the white is slightly cooked. Sprin- 
kle with a little salt and pepper and serve 
with toast. This may be placed on toast and 
cooked instead of using an earthenware cup, 
or it may be steamed. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 
Cook all the ingredients together in a 
double boiler for two hours. Press through a 
strainer, dilute with milk or cream; reheat 
and serve. The well-beaten white of one egg 
stirred into the gruel makes it more nutritious. 

Egg Gruel. 
Heat the milk; beat the yolk of the egg 
until thick and light-colored, the white till 
stiff. Stir into the yolk the other ingredients 
in the following order ; sugar, milk, beaten 
white and flavoring. Serve hot in a glass 
placed on a plate covered with a doily. 



1 lemon, 

3 tbsp. sugar, 

1 c. boiling water. 



1 pcro" 

2 tbsp. sugar, 

2 tbsp. lemon juice, 
1 c. water. 



1 egg, 

1 tbsp. sugar, 

spk. salt, 

1 c. milk, 

1 tbsp. brandy or 

J4 tbsp. vanilla, or 

% tsp. nutmeg. 



1 egg, salt, pepper, toast. 



% c. oatmeal, 
2 tsp. salt, 
1 qt. water, 

1 tsp. sugar, 

nutmeg or 

flavor. 



vanilla to 



1 c. hot milk, 
nutmeg or lemon juice, 
to flavor, 

1 pcrcf 

1 tsp. sugar. 



PRESERVING. 

Under ordinary conditions foods can not be kept for any length of 
time in a good, wholesome condition. Bacteria will find their way to the 
food and it will mould, decay and "spoil," for the spoiling of food is simply 
the result of its consumption by tiny living beings called bacteria. In order 
to prevent this we use various methods of preserving. 

The methods generally used! are cold storage, drying, salting, pickling, 
smoking, canning, by the use of oil and) also by the use of antiseptics, such 
as borax and salicylic acid. 

Preserving in the ordinary sense means the cooking of fruits in a thick 
syrup made of equal or nearly equal weights of sugar and fruit, little or no 
water being used, according to tJie fruit. 

By this method the water is drawn out and the sugar takes its place. 
Preserving includes the making of jellies, jams and marmalades. 



52 Cincinnati Public Schools 

Canning is preserving sterilized/ foods in sterilized, air-tight cans or 
jars. Meats, fish, vegetables and fruits are thus preserved. In canning, 
fruits are rendered sterile, or free from germ life by boiling. 

To Sterilize Jars. 
Wash jars and fill with cold w^ater; place on a rest in a boiler, sur- 
round the jars with cold water and heat gradually until the water boils. 
Keep jars in boiling water until ready to fill. Then empty and fill. Ster- 
ilize the covers of jars, also dip the rubber bandis in hot water, but do not 
boil them. Use new rubbers each season. 



Canning Fruit. 

Sterilize the jars; prepare the syrup; boil 
it ten minutes; pare the peaches, dropping 
them into cold water. Put peaches and a few 
stones into syrup ; cook the fruit until, when 
tried with a knitting needle it is found to be 
soft; then fill jars. 



2 c. water, 
1 lb. sugar, 

3 lbs. peaches, 



General Directions for Filling Jars. 
Remove jars from boiling water; place fruit in jars, the rounded side 
of fruit toward the outside of the jar. Fill with syrup; use the blade of 
a silver knife to push the fruit away from jar to allow air bubbles to rise 
to surface and break. Fill to overflowing; if there is not sufficient syrup, 
use boiling water. Place rubber on jar and screw the cover tight. Turn 
the jar upside down to see if it is air-tight. 

Jellies. 
Wash fruit and remove stems and imperfections. Cut large fruit into 
pieces. Watery fruits, such as grapes and currants, need no water. With 
apples and quinces use enough water to cover them. Cook fruit until juice 
flows. Remove from the fire and strain through double thickness of cheese 
cloth or jelly bag. Measure the juice and boil 20 minutes; add equal quan- 
tity of heated sugar; boil five minutes, or until jelly stiflfens when tried 
on a plate; skim and turn into sterilized glasses and set aside to harden. 
Cover with melted paraffine. Keep in a cool, dark place. 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 



014 486 012 3 



