Digitized by tine Internet Archive 
in 2007 witii funding from - 
IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/foodproductsOOsheruoft 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO • DALLAS 
ATLANTA • SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., Limited 

LONDON • BOMBAY • CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd. 

TORONTO 



n^1 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



HENRY C. SHERMAN, Ph.D. 

PROFESSOR OF FOOD CHEMISTRY 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 



l3 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
1915 

Ali rights reserved 




Copyright, 1914, 
By the MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published October, 1914. Reprinted 
January, July, September, 1915. 



i< 



•J. 8. Gushing Co. — Berwick & Smith Co. 
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

Both food legislation and the scientific investigation of certain 
important aspects of the composition and value of food have 
undergone an exceptionally rapid development during the past 
few years. In this volume it is sought to incorporate in the 
subject matter of a general study of foods the results of these 
recent advances which heretofore have been too widely scattered 
to be readily accessible. 

The general plan is to devote a chapter to each important 
type of food covering (i) an account of its production and 
preparation for market with such brief statistical data as will 
indicate the relative economic importance of the industry, 
(2) the proximate composition and general food value, (3) ques- 
tions of sanitation, inspection, and standards of purity, (4) spe- 
cial characteristics of composition, digestibihty, nutritive value 
and place in the diet. The study of milk affords opportunity 
for the correlation of all these aspects and may therefore serve 
to set standards for the study of the other types of food. Since 
a detailed discussion of each aspect under every article of food 
would have made the present volume too large for its main 
purpose, it has seemed best to distribute the emphasis differently 
in different chapters according to the nature of the food and 
the state of development of the industry. Lists of references 
appended to the different chapters will facilitate the extension 
of the work covered by the text along either chemical, economic, 
sanitary, or nutritional lines. 

To add to the usefulness of the book for reference the tables 
of composition of foods have been made as complete as is prac- 



vi PREFACE 

ticable and a considerable compilation of data relating to food 
legislation and inspection has also been included in the appendix. 

The author would here make grateful acknowledgment to 
the authorities whose lectures and reports have been freely 
quoted in describing the different food industries, and to 
many friends for helpful suggestions. Special thanks are due 
to his colleague Mr. A. W. Thomas and his former students 
Miss Lucy H. Gillett and Miss Ethel Ronzone each of whom has 
critically examined the entire work either in manuscript or in 
proof. Corrections or suggestions from others who may use 
the book will be aDpreciated. 

H. C. S. 

July, 1914. 



^ 

* 



^ 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 

PAGB 

The Principal Constituents and Functions of Foods . . 1 
Carbohydrates. Fats. Proteins. Ash constituents. Sum- 
mary of the functions of food. References. 

CHAPTER n 

Food Legislation 24 

Principles of food legislation. The food and drugs act. Notes 
on the law and the rules and regulations for its enforcement. 
State and municipal food control. References. 

CHAPTER III 

Milk 48« 

Production and handling of milk. General composition. 
Adulteration and inspection. Standards of purity. Detailed 
composition. Nutritive value and place in the diet. References. 

CHAPTER IV 

Cheese and Miscellaneous Milk Products .... 86* 
Manufacture of American Cheddar cheese. Other varieties 
of cheese. Relation of microorganisms to cheese making. Com- 
position, adulteration, standards of purity. Nutritive value of 
cheese and its place in the diet. Fermented milks. Evaporated 
and condensed milk. Dried or powdered milk. Cream. Ice 
cream and related products. References. 



CHAPTER V 
Eggs 



Production. Chemical composition. Nutritive value and 
place in the diet. Trade practices in the egg industry. Cold 
storage and its regulation. Frozen and dried eggs. References. 

vii 



128* 



4 



4 



4 



A 



\ 



vm CONTENTS 

CHAPTER VI 

PAGE 

Meats and Meat Products . 161* 

Beef. Veal. Mutton and lamb. Pork. Legislation and in- 
spection. Standards of composition for meat products. Nutri- 
tive value of meats and meat products. Relative economy of 
different cuts of meat. Place of meat in the diet. References. 

CHAPTER VII 

Poultry, Game, Fish, and Shellfish 220 ^ 

Poultry. Game. Fish. Preserved fish. Shellfish. Com- 
parison of poultry, fish, and shellfish with other flesh foods. 
References. 

CHAPTER VIII 

Grain Products 251 w 

Barley. Buckwheat. Maize or Indian corn. Manufacture of 
starch and other products from corn. Oats. Rice. Rye. 
Wheat. Flour and bread. Breakfast cereals. Composition of 
grain and bakery products. Nutritive value of grain products 
and their value as food. References. 

CHAPTER IX 

Vegetables, Fruits, and Nuts 303 

Legumes. Canning of peas. Digestibility and nutritive value. 
Physiological effects of peas greened with copper. Potatoes, 
sweet potatoes, and yams. Other vegetables. Composition of 
vegetables. Fruits and nuts. Composition of fruits and nuts. 
Digestibility and nutritive value. Place of nuts in the diet. 
Place of fruits and vegetables in the diet. References. 

CHAPTER X 

Edible Fats and Oils 366^ 

Butter. Composition of butter. Process butter. Oleomarga- 
rine (margarine). Vegetable fats as butter substitutes. Olive 
oil. Other edible oils. Lard and lard substitutes. Place of fats 
in the diet. References. 



CONTENTS ix 

CHAPTER XI 



PAGE 



Sugars, Sirups, and Confectionery 397 

The cane sugar industry. Sugar refining. The beet sugar 
industry. Extent of the sugar industry. By-products of sugar 
manufacture. Molasses, sirups, honey. Confectionery. Place 
of sugars in the diet. References. 

CHAPTER XII 

^FooD Adjuncts and Unclassified Food Materials . . . 448 
Salt. Spices. Flavoring extracts. Unclassified food mate- 
rials. Tea, coffee, cocoa^ Other beverages. Vinegar^ Refer- 
ences. 

APPENDIX A 

Rules and Regulations for the Enforcement of the Food 

AND Drugs Act 479 

APPENDIX B 
Food Inspection Decisions 501 

APPENDIX C 

Methods and Standards for the Production and Distribu- 
tion OF Certified Milk 533 

APPENDIX D 
Meat Inspection Law and Regulations 545 

APPENDIX E 
Table of 100-Calorie Portions 561 



f 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



CHAPTER I 

THE PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS 

OF FOOD 

Through the food the body obtains the substances which 
enter into its structure, which yield energy for its activities, 
and which regulate the processes essential to Hfe and health. 

Most articles of food contain water, as shown by the fact 
that they lose weight on drying. The dry residue consists mainly 
of combustible matters, but when these are burned off there 
usually remains some ash. 

The combustible portion of the food may comprise a variety 
of organic compounds, but in the great majority of staple foods 
nearly all of the organic matter is found to be comprised within 
three groups of substances — the carbohydrates (such as the 
starches and sugars), the fats (such as those of butter, olive oil, 
corn oil, lard, and meat fat), and the proteins (such as the al- 
bumin of egg, the curd of milk or cheese, the muscle fiber of 
meat, the gluten of flour or bread). Meat extracts and many 
vegetables contain nitrogen compounds simpler than proteins, 
the so-called " nitrogenous extractives " or " nitrogenous non- 
proteins." In green vegetables and berries a small part of the 
organic material consists of coloring matters, resins, and waxes. 
In the main, however, the organic matter of food consists essen- 
tially of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates, and in the methods 
commonly used for the routine analysis of foods the minor 
organic constituents are apt to be ignored, all nitrogenous 

B I 



2 FOOD PRODUCTS 

material being counted as protein ; all material soluble in ether, 
as fat ; and all other organic material, as carbohydrate. 

If we consider the composition of food materials in terms of 
elements rather than compounds, we find that the plant and 
animal tissues which we use as food are composed mainly of 
the same twelve chemical elements which chiefly compose 
the tissues of the body; namely, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, 
nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, chlorine, sodium, potassium, 
calcium, magnesium, and iron. Iodine, fluorine, and probably 
silicon and manganese are also essential to the body and so must 
be supplied by the food ; but the amounts of these latter ele- 
ments are so small that they are usually scarcely measurable 
by the ordinary methods of food analysis. 

While the ash of foods is composed of relatively simple inor- 
ganic (mineral) compounds such as the chlorides, phosphates, 
sulphates, and carbonates of sodium, potassium, calcium, 
magnesium, and iron, it does not follow that these elements 
exist in the form of the same inorganic compounds in the food. 
In many cases the inorganic compounds found in the ash are 
to a large extent formed during the burning of the food, the 
base-forming elements having existed in combination with 
organic acids or with proteins, while the acid radicles may also 
have existed in organic combination or may have been formed 
by the oxidation of the sulphur, phosphorus, or carbon of the 
organic matter. 

The principal chemical elements of foods and the most im- 
portant kinds of compounds in which they are found may there- 
fore be summarized as follows : 

^^ ^ \ forming Water. 
Oxygen J 

Carbon ) ^^^^^^^ Carbohydrates, Fats (and 

^^ ^ I sometimes Organic Acids). 
Oxygen J 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 



Carbon 

Hydrogen 

Oxygen 

Nitrogen 

Sulphur 

Phosphorus 

(sometimes) 
Iron 

(sometimes) 



forming Proteins. 



Sulphur 

Phosphorus 

Chlorine 

Sodium 

Potassium 

Calcium 

Magnesium 

Iron 



forming Ash Constituents which exist 
partly as mineral salts and partly 
in combination with carbohydrates, 
fats, proteins, and other organic 
compounds. 



The ultimate composition of a food is its composition as ex- 
pressed in terms of the chemical elements into which it might 
ultimately be resolved, — carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitro- 
gen, sulphur, etc. 

The proximate composition is the composition in terms of the 
compounds actually present — proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
mineral salts, water. These five groups of compounds have 
sometimes been called the " proximate principles " of food, or 
the " five food principles." As a precaution against ambiguity 
this use of the term '' principles " is now generally avoided, but 
there is frequent occasion to use the terms " ultimate " and 
" proximate " in speaking of the composition and analysis of 
foods and it is well to keep the exact chemical significances of 
these terms in mind. The word " proximate " must not be 
confused with '' approximate." 

Food materials and foodstuffs. The term " food materials " is 



4 FOOD PRODUCTS 

synonymous with the expression '' articles of foods." Thus bread, 
meat, eggs, milk, are spoken of as food materials. The term ' * food- 
stuffs " as a scientific term, and as it will be used in this work, 
means the stuffs that foods are made of, or, in the terms which 
we have been using, the substances of which the food materials 
are composed. Thus the proteins, fats, and carbohydrates, 
and the various organic and inorganic compounds of phosphorus, 
potassium, iron, etc., which occur in food materials are food- 
stuffs. 

The chemistry and nutritive significance of the foodstuffs, 
both organic and inorganic, has been discussed by the writer 
in another volume {Chemistry of Food and Nutrition) and cannot 
be repeated here in any detail. A brief summary of some of 
the facts having most relation to what follows in later chap- 
ters may, however, be advantageous at this point. 

Carbohydrates. The carbohydrates include the simple sugars 
and all the substances which can be split (by hydrolysis) into 
simple sugars. The simple sugars, having only one sugar radicle 
in the molecule, are called '' mono-saccharides." Sugars whose 
molecules contain two sugar radicles, and from each molecule 
of which two molecules of monosaccharide can be obtained by 
hydrolysis, are called disaccharides. Substances like starch 
a,nd dextrin which can be hydrolyzed to simple sugars but which 
are of high molecular weight, each molecule containing many 
monosaccharide radicles, are called polysaccharides. 

The monosaccharides are given group names according to 
the number of carbon atoms in the molecule, as will be seen in 
the classification which follows : 
Monosaccharides 
Hexoses (C6H12O6) 

Glucose (dextrose, grape sugar, starch sugar) 

Fructose (levulose, fruit sugar) 

Galactose 

Mannose 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 5 

Pentoses (C5H10O5) 

Arabinose 

Xylose 
Disaccharides (C12H22O11) 

Sucrose (cane sugar, saccharose) 

Lactose (milk sugar) 

Maltose (malt sugar) 
Trisaccharide (C18H32O16) 

Raffinose (meletriose) 
Polysaccharides 

Hexosans (CeHioOs)^ 

Starch 

Dextrin 

Glycogen 

Inulin 

Galactan 

Mannan 

Cellulose 
Pentosans (C5H804)a; 

Araban 

Xylan 

Some of these carbohydrates are of very great, and others 
of relatively little, practical importance. 

Glucose is widely distributed in nature, occurring abundantly 
in many fruits and plant juices, often mixed with other sugars. 
Since most of the other carbohydrates yield glucose when split 
by the digestive ferments the total amount of glucose which 
is absorbed into the body is much larger than that of any 
other sugar. Normal blood always contains glucose (usually 
about 0.1 per cent) which is constantly being burned to yield 
energy to the body. Any surplus of glucose absorbed from 
the digestive tract is normally stored in the body in the 
form of glycogen which latter is converted back into glucose 
as needed to replace that which has been burned. Com- 



6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

mercially glucose is made by hydrolysis of starch as explained 
in Chapter VIII. 

Fructose occurs with glucose in plant juices and especially 
in fruits and honey. It is formed along with an equal weight 
of glucose when cane sugar is hydrolyzed ; hence its occurrence 
in molasses and sirups as well as honey. (See Chapter XI.) 
When cane sugar is eaten it is not absorbed as such, but is 
changed into equal parts of glucose and fructose in digestion. 
The fructose absorbed into the body serves the same purposes 
as glucose and like glucose may be changed into glycogen for 
storage. Glucose and fructose are the only monosaccharides 
which occur as such in foods. 

Galactose does not occur free in nature or in commercial food products, but 
as a product of digestion of milk sugar it is of some importance in nutri- 
tion. It is utilized like glucose in the body. 

Mannose also is not found free. It may result from the digestion of 
mannan, occurring, for example, in certain Japanese foods, and when ab- 
sorbed into the blood it is utilized like glucose or galactose. 

Arabinose and xylose are not found free in nature nor in commercial food 
products. 

Sucrose occurs commonly in the vegetable kingdom, being 
found in considerable quantity in many familiar fruits and 
vegetables. Usually these sweet fruits and plant juices contain 
glucose and fructose along with the sucrose, and also other 
substances which make it difficult to separate the sucrose in 
crystalline form. The juices of the sugar cane, the sugar 
beet, and to a less extent certain maple and palm trees, contain 
enough sucrose and little enough of other substances to make 
it practicable to manufacture sugar from them commercially. 
(See Chapter XL) On hydrolysis a molecule of sucrose yields 
one molecule each of glucose and fructose. The process is often 
called " inversion " and the product " invert sugar." When 
eaten, sucrose is digested into glucose and fructose, the nutri- 
tive functions of which have been mentioned above. 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 7 

Lactose occurs in milk and is made commercially from the 
whey of milk used in the manufacture of cheese or casein. In 
the body lactose is digested into equal parts of glucose and galac- 
tose, the nutritive functions of which have been noted above. 

Maltose occurs in malted or germinated grains, in malt ex- 
tracts, etc., but the amount of maltose eaten as such is not 
likely to be large. It is formed in quantity by the digestion of 
starch by the saliva or the pancreatic juice. Maltose, however, 
whether eaten or formed in the course of digestion is not ab- 
sorbed as such to any important extent, but is split by a diges- 
tive ferment of the intestinal juice, each molecule of maltose 
yielding two molecules of glucose. 

Raffinose occurs in small quantity in the germs of several seeds. It is of 
no practical importance for its own sake, but occasionally acquires technical 
importance through developing in sugar beets (especially when the latter 
are unhealthy or injured) in sufficient amount to interfere with the crystal- 
lization of the sucrose. When hydrolyzed one molecule of raffinose yields 
one molecule each of glucose, fructose, and galactose. 

Starch is the chief form in which most plants store their 
reserve supply of carbohydrate material. It constitutes over 
one half of the solid matter of the cereal grains and an even 
larger proportion of the total solids of some other starchy foods 
such as potatoes, bananas, and chestnuts. In the processes 
of digestion, starch (especially when it has been cooked) is 
changed to maltose and the latter (as stated above) into glu- 
cose. In addition to the direct use of starchy materials as food, 
much starch is separated on an industrial scale (Chapter VIII) 
and used as such or as a source of dextrin, maltose, commercial 
glucose, or fermentation products. 

Raw starch is easily seen under the microscope to consist of 
distinct granules, the size and shape of which differ greatly in 
the starches formed in different types of plants. Figure i 
represents starch granules from potato, wheat, and corn (maize), 
all magnified in the same proportion. 



8 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Dextrins are formed from starch by the action of ferments, 
acids, or heat. Although usually represented by the same 
empirical formula as starch, the dextrins appear in general as 







^ 






Potato starch. 
Fig. I. 



Wheat starch. 



Corn starch. 



Starch granules magnified 300 diameters. 



intermediary products in the hydrolysis of starch to maltose 
or glucose ; hence no further discussion is required here. 

Glycogen is the chief reserve form of carbohydrate in animals 
as starch is in plants. For this reason and because of its physi- 
cal properties and its chemical relationship to maltose and 
glucose, it is often called '^ animal starch." It is stored prin- 
cipally in the liver and to a small extent in the muscles. 

Inulin is a white powdery substance, found in a few vegetables, which 
on hydrolysis yields fructose. It is of practically no importance as food. 

Galactans are found in small quantity in many plants and in larger 
amounts in the seeds of legumes. On hydrolysis they yield galactose. 

Mannans, yielding mannose on hydrolysis, occur in some food materials, 
but are not of practical importance in this country. 

Cellulose is familiar as a woody or fibrous material occurring in the cell 
walls of all vegetable tissues. It yields glucose on hydrolysis, but is not 
digested to a sufficient extent to make it of much nutritive value to man, 
though it is often of value in giving proper bulk to the diet. 

The pentosans, araban and xylan which yield arabinose and xylose re- 
spectively on hydrolysis, are quite widely distributed among plant products, 
but as a rule occur only in small quantities in those parts of plants which 
are commonly used as human food. 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 9 

From what has been said above it will be clear that the 
various digestible carbohydrates of the food, having been split 
by the digestive ferments to monosaccharide, are absorbed into 
the blood. Any surplus is stored temporarily in the form of 
glycogen, chiefly in the liver, though to some extent in the 
muscles. The glucose which circulates in the blood is burned 
in the muscles and other active tissues as fuel, the burned glu- 
cose being constantly replaced by new glucose derived from the 
stored glycogen so that under ordinary conditions the carbohy- 
drate of the food is entirely burned as fuel. When more carbo- 
hydrate is received than is burned, the surplus is stored as gly- 
cogen but only to a limited extent, the total amount of glycogen 
which the body can store being estimated at less than one pound 
or only about as much carbohydrate as might be contained in 
the food of one day. A surplus of carbohydrate, in addition 
to being stored as glycogen, may also be converted into fat, and 
this transformation of carbohydrate into fat can be carried on 
to a very large extent and with almost no loss of energy. 
The energy value to the body of average carbohydrate in the 
food is 4.0 Calories per gram, or 1814 Calories per pound. 

Organic acids. Some foods contain considerable quantities of organic 
acids or their salts. Oranges and lemons, for instance, are rich in citric 
acid; grapes contain potassium acid tartrate; apples and other fruits 
contain malic acid, and many fruits contain succinic acid. A few foods 
contain oxalic acid or oxalates, but these are probably of little food value. 
Fermented foods may contain appreciable quantities of lactic acid as in 
sauerkraut and sour milk, buttermilk, etc., or acetic acid as in vinegar. 

With the exception of oxalic acid, these organic acids appear to be very 
readily burned in the body and doubtless their energy is used in practically 
the same way as the energy of the carbohydrates. The fuel values of some 
of these acids have been determined as follows: acetic acid, 3.5 Calories 
per gram; citric acid, 2.5 Calories per gram; lactic acid, 3.7 Calories per 
gram; succinic acid, 3.0 Calories per gram; tartaric acid, 1.7 Calories per 
gram. While these values are somewhat lower than those of the carbo- 
hydrates, it is not uncommon in reckoning the fuel value of a food to count 
the organic acid as carbohydrate, especially as in routine analyses the acids 



lO FOOD PRODUCTS 

are often not determined nor are the carbohydrates determined directly, 
but all of the material not found to be moisture, protein, fat, or ash is often 
considered to be carbohydrate for the purposes of ordinary estimations of 
food values. 

Fats 

The fats are all glycerides; that is, substances consisting of 
combinations of glycerol (commercially called " glycerin ") 
with fatty acids. Many of these fatty acids belong chemically 
to the same series with acetic acid. The members of this series 
occurring naturally in fats are butyric acid, C4H8O2; caproic 
acid, C6H12O2; caprylic acid, C8H16O2; capric acid, C10H20O2; 
lauric acid, C12H24O2 ; myristic acid, C14H28O2 ; palmitic acid, 
C16H32O2 ; stearic acid, C18H36O2. 

Butyric acid is a liquid which mixes in all proportions with 
water, alcohol, and ether, can be boiled without decomposition, 
and is readily volatile in steam. 

With increasing molecular weight, the acids of this series 
regularly show increasing boiling or melting points, decreasing 
solubility, and become less volatile. Those up to capric acid are 
liquids at ordinary temperatures ; those above are solids. The 
higher the molecular weight, the harder the solid. Stearic acid 
is a hard paraffin4ike crystalline solid insoluble in water and 
only moderately soluble in alcohol and ether. 

The properties of the fats themselves depend upon and run 
parallel with those of the fatty acids. 

In addition to the fatty acids of the series to which acetic, 
butyric, and stearic acids belong, all of which are saturated 
compounds, there are several unsaturated fatty acids, capable 
of combining chemically with hydrogen, oxygen, or iodine by 
direct addition. The most important of these contain eighteen 
carbon atoms to the molecule and therefore resemble stearic 
acid in molecular size. 

The most important of these unsaturated fatty acids are: 
oleic acid, C18H34O2; linoleic acid, C18H32O2; linolenic acid, 



» 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD ii 

C18H30O2. All of these acids and their glycerides are liquid at 
ordinary temperatures. Commercial fats consisting mainly 
of the glycerides of these acids are therefore liquids and are 
usually called oils. The chief chemical difference between olive 
oil and lard is that the former contains morj^c^^ (glyceride of 
oleic acid) and the latter more of palmitin and stearin (glycerides 
of palmitic and stearic acids). Olein o rjinokin (glyceride of 
linoleic acid) may be converted into stearin by direct chemical 
union with hydrogen, and this is now done on a commercial scale 
for the hardening of fatty oils so as to give them the consistency 
of lard. (See Chapter X.) 

The body fat of man and of the animals commonly used as 
food consists chiefly of glycerides of palmitic, stearic, and oleic 
acids. Since palmitin and stearin are solids, while olein is a 
liquid, the hardness or softness of these fats is principally due 
to the proportion of olein which they contain. Butter fat con- 
tains all of the fatty acids listed above in the series from butyric 
to stearic acid and is distinguished from the other food fats 
principally by this fact. Olive oil consists chiefly of palmitin, 
stearin, and olein, but contains much more olein and much less 
stearin than the ordinary solid fats. In cottonseed oil, sesame 
oil, and other seed oils used as food, the quantities of palmitin 
and stearin are still smaller and, in addition to large quantities 
of olein, considerable quantities of linolein and in some cases 
even linolenin may occur. 

In ordinary food analysis, fat is determined by extraction 
with ether. All ether-soluble substances are therefore likely 
to be counted as fat. In this way some spiall quantities of mate- 
rials of less food value are likely to be counted along with the 
fat of the food. The commercial food fats are nearly free from 
other substances (except that butter contains water and salt) 
and have therefore nearly the same composition and food value. 
Descriptions of the edible fats and oils and discussion of their 
digestibility and place in the diet will be found in Chapter X. 



12 FOOD PRODUCTS 

The fat of the food after digestion and absorption is again 
found in the blood in the form of glycerides or neutral fat 
which disappears partly by being burned in the muscles and 
other active tissues where it is used as fuel for the same pur- 
poses as carbohydrate and if in excess of the fuel requirements 
of the body, the fat obtained from the food may also be stored 
in the tissues. The body fat obtained thus directly from the 
food may shgw somewhat different characters from the fat which 
has been formed in the body from carbohydrate, but its nutri- 
tive relations appear to be exactly the same. In either case, 
the fat thus stored in the body may be drawn upon for use as 
fuel at any future time when the energy requirements of the body 
demand it. 

The energy value to the body of average food fat is 9.0 Cal- 
ories per gram, or 4082 Calories per pound. 

Proteins (Nitrogen Compounds) 

Among the nitrogenous constituents of foods, the proteins 
usually so far predominate that the term protein is often used 
as practically synonymous with the nitrogen compounds of 
food materials. For this reason, and because the great majority 
of proteins contain from 15 to 18 per cent, averaging about 
16 per cent, of nitrogen, the protein content of food materials is 
usually estimated by determining nitrogen and multiplying the 
percentage of nitrogen found by 6.25. 

The proteins are very complex substances and in no case is 
the chemical constitution of a natural protein fully and exactly 
known. It has, however, been determined that the typical 
proteins are jesseatially anhydrides of amino acids. Thus the 
relation of the protein molecule to the amino acids, from which 
it is derived and into which it can be resolved, is analogous to 
the relation of starch to glucose. There is, however, this 
striking difference: that the molecules of monosaccharide 
derived from the complete hydrolysis of the starch are all alike 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 13 

(glucose), whereas the complete hydrolysis of a protein always 
yields several different amino acids, usually from twelve to 
fifteen. 

The names ^ of the amino acids commonly met as products of 
hydrolysis of proteins are: glycin (glycQ CoU), alanin, serin, 
valin, leucin, prolin, phenylalanin, tyrosin, aspartic acid, glu- 
tamic (glutaminic) acid, lysin, arginin, histidin, tryptophan, 
cystin. The strict chemical names and structural formulae of 
these amino acids are given in Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, 
Chapter I. 

Classification. There has been considerable confusion in the 
classification and terminology of the proteins, and even in the 
publications of the present day, the same terms may sometimes 
be found employed with different meanings by different writers. 
The classification now generally approved is as follows: 

I. Simple proteins. Protein substances which yield only 
amino acids or their derivatives on hydrolysis. 

(a) Albumins. Simple proteins soluble in pure water and 
coagulable by heat. Examples: egg albumen, lact-albumen 
(milk), serum albumen (blood), leucosin (wheat), legumeHn 
(peas). 

(b) Globulins. Simple proteins insoluble in pure water, but 
soluble in neutral salt solutions. Examples: musd^^globulin, 
^rum globulin (blood), edestin (wheat, hemp seed, and other 
seeds), phaseolin (beans), legumin (beans and peas), vignin 
(cow peas), tuberin (potato), amandin (almonds), excelsin 
(Brazil nuts). 

(c) Glutelins. Simple proteins insoluble in all neutral solvents, 
but readily soluble in very dilute acids and alkalies. The best 
known and most important member of this group is the glutenin 
of wheat. 

(d) Alcohol soluble proteins. Simple proteins soluble in rela- 

1 The names of the amino acids may be spelled either with or without the final 
^. e-S-i glycine or glycin, alanine or alanin. 



14 FOOD PRODUCTS 

tively strong alcohol (70-80 per cent) but insoluble in water, 
absolute alcohol, and other neutral solvents. Examples: 
gliadin (wheat), zein (corn)*, hordein (barley). 

(e) Albuminoids. These are the simple proteins characteristic 
of the skeletal structures of animals (for which reason they are 
also called scleroproteins) and also of the external protective 
tissues such as the skin, hair, etc. None of these proteins is 
used for food in the natural state, but collagen when boiled with 
water yields gelatin so that these two are of considerable im- 
portance in food chemistry. 

. (/) Histories. Soluble in water, and insoluble in very dilute 
ammonia, and in the absence of ammonium salts insoluble even 
in an excess of ammonia; yield precipitates with solutions of 
other proteins and a coagulum on heating which is easily soluble 
in very dilute acids. On hydrolysis they yield several amino 
acids among which the basic ones predominate. The only 
members of this group which have any considerable importance 
as food are the thymus histpne and the globin derived from the 
hemoglobin of the blood. 

(g) Protamines. These are simpler substances than the 
preceding groups, are soluble in water, uncoagulable by heat, 
possess strong basic properties and on hydrolysis yield a few 
amino acids among which the basic amino acids greatly pre- 
dominate. They are of no importance as food. 

11. Conjugated proteins. Substances which contain the 
protein molecule united to some other molecule or molecules 
otherwise than as a salt. 

(a) Nucleo proteins. Compounds of one or more protein 
molecules with nucleic acid. Examples of the nucleic acids thus 
found united with proteins are thymo-nucleic acid (thymus 
gland), tritico-nucleic acid (wheat germ). 

(b) Glycoproteins. Compounds of the protein molecule with 
a substance or substances containing a carbohydrate group other 
than a nucleic acid. Example : mucins. 



► 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 15 

(c) Phosphoproteins. Compounds in which the phosphorus 
is in organic union with the protein molecule otherwise than in 
a nucleic acid or lecithin. Examples: caseinogen (milk), 
ovovitellin (egg yolk). 

{d) Hemoglobins. Compounds of the protein molecule with 
hematin or some similar substance. Example: hemoglobin 
of blood. (The redness of meat is due chiefly to the hemoglobin 
of the blood which the meat still retains.) 

{e) Lecitho proteins. Compounds of the protein molecule 
with lecithins or related substances. 

III. Derived proteins. 

1. Primary protein derivatives. Derivatives of the protein 
molecule apparently formed through hydrolytic changes which 
involve only slight alterations of the protein molecule. 

{a) Proteans. Insoluble products which apparently result 
from the incipient action of water, very dilute acids or 
enzymes. Examples: casein (curdled milk), fibrin (coagulated 
blood). 

{h) Metaproteins. Products of the further action of acids and 
alkalies whereby the molecule is sufficiently altered to form 
proteins soluble in very weak acids and alkalies, but insoluble 
in neutral solvents. This group includes the substances which 
have been called " acid proteins," " acid albumins," " syntonin," 
*' alkali proteins," " alkali albumins," and " albuminates." 

(c) Coagulated proteins. Insoluble products which result 
from (i) the action of heat on protein solutions, or (2) the action 
of alcohol on the protein. Example : cooked egg albumin, or 
egg albumin precipitated by means of alcohol. 

2. Secondary protein derivatives. Products of the further 
hydrolytic cleavage of the protein molecule. 

(a) Proteoses. Soluble in water, not coagulable by heat, 
precipitated by saturating their solutions with ammonium sul- 
phate or zinc sulphate. The products commercially known as 
" peptones " consist largely of proteoses. 



1 6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

{b) Peptones. Soluble in water, not coagulable by heat, and 
not precipitated by saturating their solutions with ammonium 
sulphate or zinc sulphate. These represent a further stage of 
cleavage than the proteoses. 

(c) Peptids. Definitely characterized combinations of two 
or more amino acids. An anhydride of two amino acid radicles 
is called a " di-peptid " ; one having three amino acid radicles, 
a " tri-peptid " ; etc. Peptids result from the further hydro- 
lytic cleavage of the peptones. Many peptids have also been 
made in the laboratory by the linking together of amino acids. 

Substances simpler than the peptones but containing several 
amino acid radicles are often called " pol3rpeptids." 

Behavior in Nutrition.^ The digestion products of the protein 
absorbed from the digestive tract into the blood stream are 
rapidly distributed through the body and taken up by the 
muscles and other tissues. A part of the nitrogenous material 
thus received may be utilized for the growth or repair of tissue 
material ; the remainder is split up, the nitrogen being eliminated 
chiefly as urea and the non-nitrogenous residue being either 
burned as fuel or converted into carbohydrate or fat. 

It should be kept in mind that in the full-grown, well-nour- 
ished organism, no increase of protein tissue ordinarily occurs ; 
hence all the protein received from the food is burned as fuel, 
whether it first serves for the repair of the body tissue or not. 
The exact nature of the repair process in the tissues is not fully 
known. It is also uncertain to what extent the food must supply 
the exact amount of each individual amino acid which is to enter 
into the constitution of the body proteins. It is certain that 
the body can make glycin (glycocoll), while it cannot make 
tryptophan (certainly at least not at a sufficient rate to meet 
its needs). Hence the protein of the food need not contain 
glycin radicles but must contain tryptophan radicles if it is to 
serve fully the nutritive requirements of the body. The evi- 

1 For fuller discussion, see Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, Chapter IV. 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 17 

dence in regard to the ability or inability of the body to make 
certain other amino acids is less clear. It is possible that this 
ability may vary with the species and it is altogether probable 
that it differs with age and development, since Osborne and 
Mendel have found that a protein which does not furnish the 
amino acid lysin may serve as the sole nitrogenous food for a 
full-grown animal but does not support growth. The subject is 
still under active investigation and attempts to generalize at this 
time would be premature, but some further discussion will be 
found in Chapters III and VIII. The energy value to the 
body of average food protein is 4.0 Calories per gram, or 1814 
Calories per pound. 

Ash Constituents 

Sulphur compounds. Sulphur occurs in the food, as it does 
in the body, chiefly as a constituent of proteins. Since sul- 
phur is essential to the constitution of the body proteins, it is 
obviously important that sufficient of this element shall be 
supplied by the food ; but all food proteins also contain sulphur 
and though the percentages of sulphur in individual proteins 
show considerable differences, the different proteins of the 
same food material usually tend to balance each other in this 
respect so that the sulphur content of the total protein (or the 
ratio of sulphur to nitrogen) is about the same for most staple 
foods as for the body. 

Hence it is believed that under ordinary conditions food which 
supplies adequate protein will thereby supply adequate sulphur 
so that sulphur need not ordinarily be considered as a separate 
factor in determining food values, but may usually be regarded 
as sjifficiently_provided-iQr_sdien the piptein regTurem ent i s 
covergiL 

When the digestion products of the food proteins are burned 
in the body, the greater part of the sulphur is oxidized to sul- 
phuric acid and excreted as sulphates. 
c 



t8 food products 

Phosphorus compounds. Phosphorus compounds are essen- 
tial to all the tissues of the body and it is important that they 
be adequately supplied by the food. 

The various articles of food differ greatly in phosphorus con- 
tent, nor does the amount of phosphorus run even approximately 
parallel with the protein content (as does the sulphur). Hence 
the phosphorus compounds of food materials should be care- 
fully considered in forming judgments of nutritive values. 

The phosphorus compounds of foods may be grouped into 
four general classes, one inorganic and three organic : (i) inor- 
ganic phospjiates; (2) phosphorized ^ protein s, including the 
phosphoproteins such as casein and the nucleoproteins char- 
acteristic of cell nuclei ; (3) phosphorized fats or phospholipines, 
such as egg lecithin ; (4) combinations of phosphoric acid with 
carbohydrates or wi th closely related subs tances such as inosite. 

Some of the organic compounds of phosphorus are believed to 
be of greater food value than the simple phosphates. 

All three groups of organic phosphorus compounds are more 
or less completely oxidized in the body, the phosphorus being 
finally excreted almost entirely in the form of phosphate. The 
phosphates of the food while entering and leaving the body in 
essentially the same form are nevertheless utilized in some very 
important nutritive functions such as furnishing material for 
bone structure and facilitating the maintenance of the normal 
neutrality of the blood and the body tissues. 

Chlorides. Sodium chloride (common salt) is an essential 
and a prominent constituent of the blood and other body fluids. 
Carnivorous animals, eating the blood as well as the flesh of 
their prey, obtain in this way sufficient salt for their needs along 
with their organic foodstuffs ; man and the herbivora take salt 
in addition to that naturally contained in their food. Salt is 
now such a cheap and popular condiment that it is commonly 
added to the food in such quantities as to make the natural 
chloride content of the food a matter of no practical consequence. 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 19 

While sodium chloride enters and leaves the body in the 
same form, it performs important functions. From it the hydro- 
chloric acid of the gastric juice is made and chiefly to it the 
normal s olvent pQ:a^ er and osmotic nce ssure of the blood and 
other body fluids are due. The nature of these functions makes 
plain the imperative need for salt but also suggests that too 
much may be almost as objectionable as too little. The quan- 
tities of salt now commonly eaten are certainly larger than 
necessary and probably larger than are desirable. 

Sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium. Sodium occurs 
in the food chiefly in the form of sodium chloride; potassium, 
chiefly as phosphate, as salts of organic acids and perhaps in 
other organic combinations. The quantity of sodium present 
naturally in foods is usually not of great significance because 
of the large amounts in the form of common salt used as a condi- 
ment. Potassium is particularly abundant in many of the vege- 
tables. To a certain extent sodium and potassium appear to 
act antagonistically in the body so that the large quantity of 
potassium taken in when such vegetables are eaten freely must 
be balanced by the taking of common salt. 

There must also be maintained in the body a proper balance 
between sodium and calcium. For example, the rhythmical 
contraction and relaxation of heart muscle which constitutes 
the normal beating of the heart is dependent upon this muscle 
being bached by a fluid containing the proper concentration and 
quantitative proportions of sodium and calcium. 

In another direction there appears to be a somewhat analogous 
balancing of calcium and magnesium. 

Since these elements are not only not interchangeable but are 
in some respects mutually antagonistic, it is evident .that each 
must be supplied in sufficient quantity to permit the proper 
performance of its specific functions. In the case of sodium, 
the liberal use of salt as a condiment insures a more than ample 
supply. Potassium and magnesium appear to be sufficiently 



20 FOOD PRODUCTS 

abundant in most staple foods so that it is not usually necessary 
to specifically consider these elements in estimates of food values. 
Calcium is not always sufficiently abundant even when the food 
is freely chosen; hence the richness of a food in calcium is a 
factor affecting its value. 

It was seen above that the sulphur entering the body in the 
protein of the food is mainly burned to sulphuric acid. This 
acid must of course be neutralized as fast as formed, and while 
the body has other resources which can be drawn upon to effect 
this neutralization, it appears to be distinctly advantageous 
that the food shall furnish a sufficient amount of the base-forming 
elements, in addition to those already in the form of mineral 
salts, to neutralize the fixed acids which are produced in me- 
tabolism. The most available source of base for this purpose is 
found in the compounds of the base-forming elements (chiefly 
potassium) with the organic acids or other organic matter of 
the foods. The significance of the balance between acid-form- 
ing and base-forming elements will be discussed more fully in 
Chapter IX. 

Iron. Iron occurs in the food almost entirely in organic form 
as a constituent of certain proteins. The simpler forms, chiefly 
inorgani c, in which iron is given medicinally do not seem to have 
the same nutritive effect as the food-iron. 

The greater part of the iron in the body exists as an essential 
constituent of the hemoglobin of the blood, the remainder being 
chiefly in the chromatin substances of the cells. There is no con- 
siderable reserve store of inactive iron in the body corresponding 
to the stores of phosphorus and calcium in the bones. Hence if 
the food fails to furnish as much iron as is expended in the nutri- 
tive processes and excreted by the body, there must soon result a 
diminution of hemoglobin which if allowed to continue is marked 
by a greater or less degree of anaemia. Thus although only 
small amounts of iron are contained in the food or involved in 
the nutritive processes, its function as a building material for 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 21 

the red blood cells is conspicuously important. Iron salts and 
other simple compounds of iron have long been used medicinally 
in the treatment of anaemia and it has often been held that the 
iron so used must enter directly into the construction of hemo- 
globin, but very extensive investigation indicates that this is 
not the case. The inorganic or medicinal iron appears to act 
qs ^a-Stim ulus_to,_.the- blood-forming organ s while the actual 
material from which the hemoglobin is made appears to be the 
iron-protei n compounds of the food. 

With our present knowledge we must look to the food and not 
to medicines or mineral waters for the supply of iron needed in 
normal nutrition and since freely chosen food does not always 
furnish enough iron to meet satisfactorily the requirements of 
the body it follows that the iron content is a factor of some 
importance in the consideration of food values. 

Summary of the Functions of Food 

Much the largest part of the total soHds of the food is burned 
in the body and yields energy for the support of its activities. 
Even during growth most of the fat and carbohydrate and the 
greater part of the protein is so used. 

Part of the protein of the food is used as a source of body 
protein, or, as it is often expressed, is,.aised-to.„huilcLJissiie. 
Several elements not contained in most proteins are also essen- 
tial to the tissues of the body and these are derived from the 
so-called ash constituents of the faod. The calcium and phos- 
phorus of the bones, the potassium and phosphorus of the soft 
tissues, the iron of the red blood cells are just as necessary 
" building materials " as are the proteins, though the amounts 
required are much smaller. 

Upon the presence in the body of salts derived from the food, 
either directly or as the result of its oxidation in the tissues, 
depend such important properties and processes as the solvent 
power and osmotic pressure of the body fluids, the elasticity of 



22 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the muscles, the maintenance of the normal neutrality or slight 
alkalescence of the blood and tissues.^ 

These latter functions, and many others which might be men- 
tioned as primarily dependent upon water and the salts, are 
hardly suggested by the phrase " tissue building," since they 
have to do not so much with the actual construction or repair of 
the tissues as with the regulation of the processes on which the 
nutrition of the body depends. 

It may therefore be said that the functions of food are 

(i) to yield energy 

(2) to build tissue 

(3) to regulate body processes. 

It is not to be inferred that any given food substance can be 
assigned once for all to some one of these three general functions. 
Thus the protein digestion products may serve both to build 
tissue and to yield energy ; phosphates may serve both to build 
tissue and to assist in regulating the neutrality of the blood and 
tissues. 

Moreover, it has very recently been established that certain 
important functions are performed by food constituents hitherto 
unknown and of which the amounts involved are so small that 
the chemical nature of the substances has not yet been fully 
established. Some of these substances appear to be nitrogen 
compounds and have received the group name vitamines. In 
other cases the active constituent has been described as a 
lipoid, that is, a fatlike substance. These little known, but 
apparently very significant, food constituents will receive fur- 
ther attention in the chapters which deal specifically with the 
different types of food. 

1 The normal condition of the blood and tissues is described either as neutral 
or as slightly alkaline, according to the definition of neutrality used. 



PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS AND FUNCTIONS OF FOOD 23 



REFERENCES 

Armstrong. The Simple Carbohydrates and the Glucosides. 

Atwater. Methods and Results of Investigations on the Chemistry and 
Economy of Food. 

Chittenden. The Nutrition of Man. 

Dakin. Oxidations and Reductions in the Animal Body. 

Glikin. Chemie der P'ette, Lipoide, und Wachsarten. , 

Howell. Textbook of Physiology. 

Leathes. The Fats. 

Lewkowitsch. Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils, Fats and Waxes. 

LusK. Elements of the Science of Nutrition. 

Osborne. The Vegetable Proteins. 

Osborne and Mendel. Feeding Experiments with Isolated Food Sub- 
stances. 

Plimmer. The Chemical Constitution of the Proteins. 

Rose. Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics. 

Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 

Stiles. Nutritional Physiology. 

Von Noorden. Metabolism and Practical Medicine, Vol. I. Physiology. 



CHAPTER II 
FOOD LEGISLATION 

Principles of Food Legislation 

Food is more nearly a fixed requirement than most other 
necessities of life. The smaller the income the larger the per- 
centage of it which must be spent for food. For the majority 
of the people it is approximately true that '' half the struggle of 
life is a struggle for food." In this chapter we have to consider 
in a general way the necessity for legal control of the food 
industry and the chief features of the pure food laws. 

At the present time, more than half the total value of natural 
products of the United States is represented by the food prod- 
ucts whose annual value is about twice that of all x)ther farm 
products and over twice that of the combined products of the 
mines and forests. 

The products of the mines and forests may be subjected to 
more elaborate processes of manufacture and so may be in- 
creased in value in greater ratio before reaching the consumer 
than are the food products ; but even so we find from the census 
returns that in value of finished as well as of natural products 
the food industries lead all others. Among the manufactures 
as classified by the United States Census, the greatest is that 
of slaughtering and meat packing. The annual product of the 
meat packing establishments exceeds in value that of the foun- 
dries and machine shops. The product of the flour and grist 
mills is about equal in value to that of either the rolling mills, 
the lumber mills, or the cotton mills of the country. 

The enormous size to which many of the food manufacturing 

24 



FOOD LEGISLATION 25 

establishments have grown during recent years (as for example 
a sugar refinery turning out daily from 1,000,000 to 3,000,000 
pounds of sugar, or a butter factory producing 25,000 pounds of 
butter per day) makes it possible to effect great economies or 
make great advances, through what are apparently quite 
modest improvements in process or product. Hence the food 
industries are rapidly being brought under chemical control 
for the sake of econom y i n p rocesses, improvement of staple 
products, and advantageous utihzation of by-products. 

Scientific control of the food industries has also been greatly 
stimulated in recent years by the rapidly growing tendency of 
consumers to fix requirements for food supplies through legis- 
lation. 

With the development of modern industry population has 
concentrated in cities and towns to such an extent that the 
majority of people have ceased to produce any appreciable part 
of their own food or even to obtain it from their immediate 
neighbors. Most people must buy practically all of their 
food, and the food is brought from greater and greater distances 
and distributed under conditions which make it increasingly 
difficult for the consumer to exercise any direct individual con- 
trol over the methods by which his food is produced and handled. 
When the majority of the people in any community find them- 
selves in this position, they naturally tend to substitute for the 
individual control which is no longer feasible a collective control 
of their food supplies through legislation and official inspection. 

In the United States the legal regulation of the food industry 
is accomplished partly through the Federal Government by 
virtue of its constitutional power to regulate commerce with 
foreign nations and among the several states; and partly 
through the police power inherent in the state (and often dele- 
gated in large measure to the city) to pass such laws and' pro- 
vide such regulations as are necessary to protect its citizens in 
their rights as to health, morals, and property. 



26 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Many communities had laws or ordinances for the prevention 
of milk adulteration long before making any attempt at general 
regulation of the entire food supply. 

General food legislation was enacted^ and systematic inspec- 
tion of food of all kinds was begun in Massachusetts about 
thirty years ago. Legislation of this character spread gradually, 
and in 1905 about half of the states had general food laws. 
The National law for prevention of adulteration or misbranding 
of foods or drugs was passed in 1906, and went in effect January i, 
1907. This stimulated further state legislation with the result 
that now nearly every state has a general food law and is making 
an attempt at its enforcement. 

Thus the people, while no longer able to produce their own food 
or buy it of neighbors who have produced it under known 
conditions, may still through legislation seek to insure that the 
food they buy shall be : 

(i) What it purports to be, in kind and amount ; 

(2) Free from deterioration or unwholesome additions ; 

(3) Possessed of full nutritive value. 

Most of our food laws take the form of prescribing what 
the food shall not be rather than what it shall be; and these 
prohibitions are usually classified under the two heads of adul- 
teration and misbranding. 

Anything which makes a food unwholesome or lowers its nutri- 
tive value is usually considered adulteration; while to offer 
a food under false or misleading claims as to its source, kind, 
quality, or amount is usually called misbranding. 

In view of the diversity of methods used in handling different 
kinds of foods, and the constant changing of methods to keep 
abreast of scientific developments and economic conditions, it 
is plain that there will often be room for difference of opinion as 
to whether or not a given trade practice shall be held to be 
adulteration or misbranding. 

The attempt to settle such questions in advance by writing 



I 



FOOD LEGISLATION 27 

detailed specifications into the law itself, may defeat its own 
purpose, since in general the more specific the wording of the 
law, the more literally (and hence narrowly) it must be con- 
strued. Thus in the Pennsylvania Food Act of May 13, 1909, 
the addition of alum to food is prohibited ; but it was held by 
the courts that the word alum as used in the law means only 
potassium aluminum sulphate and not sodium aluminum sul- 
phate nor simple . sulphate of aluminum. The latter, being 
cheaper, are commonly used in the making of " alum " baking 
powders and for preserving the crispiness of pickles, and the 
introduction of aluminum into the food in these two ways is 
therefore allowed to continue, although it was for the express 
purpose of preventing this that the word alum was included in 
the list of forbidden substances in the law. 

The Federal Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906, commonly 
known as '' The Pure Food Law," and on which subsequent 
legislation by most of the states has been largely based, defines 
the main types of adulteration and misbranding, but, except in 
the case of confectionery and of habit-forming drugs, does not 
name the specific substances which are to be prohibited or 
restricted in use, nor does the law itself contain standards of 
composition for foods. 

According to this law a food is deemed adulterated : 
(i) If any substance has been mixed or packed with it so as 
to reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality or strength. 

(2) If any substance has been substituted, wholly or in part. 

(3) If any valuable constituent has been wholly or in part 
abstracted. 

(4) If it be mixed, colored, coated, powdered, or stained in a 
manner whereby damage or inferiority is concealed. 

(5) If it contain any added poisonous or other added dele- 
terious ingredient which may render it injurious to health. 

(6) If it consists in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed, 
or putrid animal or vegetable substance, or any portion of an 



28 FOOD PRODUCTS 

animal unfit for food, or if it be the product of a diseased animal, 
or one that has died otherwise than by slaughter. 

And a food is deemed to he mishranded: 

(i) If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the dis- 
tinctive name of another article. 

(2) If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive or mislead the 
purchaser, or purport to be a foreign product when not so, or if 
the contents shall have been substituted in whole or in part, or 
if it fail to bear a statement on the label of the quantity or pro- 
portion of any narcotic or habit-forming drug which it contains. 

(3) If, when sold in package form it fails to bear a correct 
statement of weight, measure, or numerical count of its con- 
tents; provision being made for reasonable variations and 
for certain exemptions. 

(4) If the package containing it or its label shall bear any 
statement, design, or device which is false or misleading in any 
particular. 

The exact wording of the definitions and the corresponding 
definitions of adulteration and misbranding as applied to con- 
fectionery and drugs may be seen by consulting the text of the 
law which is quoted in full below. 

The Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906, as Amended August 23, 1912 

AN ACT For preventing the manufacture, sale, or transportation of adul- 
terated or misbranded or poisonous or deleterious foods, drugs, medicines, 
and liquors, and for regulating traffic therein, and for other purposes. 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Stales 
of America in Congress assembled, That it shall be unlawful for any person 
to manufacture within any Territory or the District of Columbia any article 
of food or drug which is adulterated or misbranded, within the meaning of 
this Act; and any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this 
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and for each offense shall, upon 
conviction thereof, be fined not to exceed five hundred dollars or shall be 
sentenced to one year's imprisonment, or both such fine and imprisonment, 
in the discretion of the court, and for each subsequent offense and conviction 



FOOD LEGISLATION 20 

thereof shall be fined not less than one thousand dollars or sentenced to 
one year's imprisonment, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the dis- 
cretion of the court. 

Sec. 2. That the introduction into any State or Territory or the District 
of Columbia from any other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, 
or from any foreign country, or shipment to any foreign country of any 
article of food or drugs which is adulterated or misbranded, within the mean- 
ing of this Act, is hereby prohibited ; and any person who shall ship or deliver 
for shipment from any State or Territory or the District of Columbia to any 
other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, or to a foreign country, 
or who shall receive in any State or Territory or the District of Columbia 
from any other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, or foreign 
country, and having so received, shall deliver, in original unbroken packages, 
for pay or otherwise, or offer to deliver to any other person, any such article 
so adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of this Act, or any person 
who shall sell or offer for sale in the District of Columbia or the Territories 
of the United States any such adulterated or misbranded foods or drugs, 
or export or oflfer to export the same to any foreign country, shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor, and for such offense be fined not exceeding two hundred 
dollars for the first offense, and upon conviction for each subsequent offense 
not exceeding three hundred dollars or be imprisoned not exceeding one 
year, or both, in the discretion of the court : Provided, That no article shall 
be deemed misbranded or adulterated within the provisions of this Act 
when intended for export to any foreign country and prepared or packed 
according to the specifications or directions of the foreign purchaser when 
no substance is used in the preparation or packing thereof in conflict with 
the laws of the foreign country to which said article is intended to be shipped ; 
but if said article shall be in fact sold or offered for sale for domestic use or 
consumption, then this proviso shall not exempt said article from the opera- 
tion of any of the other provisions of this Act. 

Sec. 3. That the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, 
and the Secretary of Commerce and Labor shall make uniform rules and 
regulations for carrying out the provisions of this Act, including the collec- 
tion and examination of specimens of foods and drugs manufactured or 
offered for sale in the District of Columbia, or in any Territory of the United 
States, or which shall be offered for sale in unbroken packages in any State 
other than that in which they shall have been respectively manufactured or 
produced, or which shall be received from any foreign country, or intended 
for shipment to any foreign country, or which may be submitted for ex- 
amination by the chief health, food, or drug officer of any State, Territory, 
or the District of Columbia, or at any domestic or foreign port through 



30 FOOD PRODUCTS 

which such product is offered for interstate commerce, or for export or 
import between the United States and any foreign port or country. 

Sec. 4. That the examinations of specimens of foods and drugs shall 
be made in the Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of Agriculture, 
or under the direction and supervision of such Bureau, for the purpose of 
determining from such examinations whether such articles are adulterated 
or misbranded within the meaning of this Act ; and if it shall appear from 
any such examination that any of such specimens is adulterated or mis- 
branded within the meaning of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
cause notice thereof to be given to the party from whom such sample was 
obtained. Any party so notified shall be given an opportunity to be heard, 
under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed as aforesaid, and if 
it appears that any of the provisions of this Act have been violated by such 
party, then the Secretary of Agriculture shall at once certify the facts to 
the proper United States district attorney, with a copy of the results of the 
analysis or the examination of such article duly authenticated by the analyst 
or officer making such examination, under the oath of such officer. After 
judgment of the court, notice shall be given by publication in such manner 
as may be prescribed by the rules and regulations aforesaid. 

Sec. 5. That it shall be the duty of each district attorney to whom the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall report any violation of this Act, or to whom any 
health or food or drug officer or agent of any State, Territory, or the District 
of Columbia shall present satisfactory evidence of any such violation, to 
cause appropriate proceedings to be commenced and prosecuted in the proper 
courts of the United States, without delay, for the enforcement of the 
penalties as in such case herein provided. 

Sec. 6. That the term " drug " as used in this Act, shall include all 
medicines and preparations recognized in the United States Pharmacopoeia 
or National Formulary for internal or external use, and any substance or 
mixture of substances intended to be used for the cure,' mitigation, or pre- 
vention of disease of either man or other animals. The term " food," as 
used herein, shall include all articles used for food, drink, confectionery, or 
condiment by man or other animals, whether simple, mixed, or compound. 

Sec. 7. That for the purposes of this Act an article shall be deemed to 
be adulterated : 

In case of drugs : 

First. If, when a drug is sold under or by a name recognized in the United 
States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary, it differs from the standard 
of strength, quality, or purity, as determined by the test laid down in the 
United States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary official at the time of 
investigation : Provided, That no drug defined in the United States Pharma- 



FOOD LEGISLATION 31 

copoeia or National Formulary shall be deemed to be adulterated under 
this provision if the standard of strength, quality, or purity be plainly stated 
upon the bottle, box, or other container thereof although the standard may 
differ from that determined by the test laid down in the United States 
Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary. 

Second. If its strength or purity fall below the professed standard or 
quality under which it is sold. 
In the case of confectionery : 

If it contain terra alba, barytes, talc, chrome yellow, or other mineral 
substance or. poisonous color or flavor, or other ingredient deleterious or 
detrimental to health, or any vinous, malt, or spirituous liquor or compound 
or narcotic drug. 
In the case of food : 

First. If any substance has been mixed and packed with it so as to reduce 
or lower or injuriously affect its quality or strength. 

Second. If any substance has been substituted wholly or in part for the 
article. 

Third. If any valuable constituent of the article has been wholly or in 
part abstracted. 

Fourth. If it be mixed, colored, powdered, coated, or stained in a manner 
whereby damage or inferiority is concealed. 

Fifth. If it contain any added poisonous or other added deleterious in- 
gredient which may render such article injurious to health: Provided, 
That when in the preparation of food products for shipment they are 
preserved by any external application applied in such manner that the 
preservative is necessarily removed mechanically, or by maceration in 
water, or otherwise, and directions for the removal of said preservative 
shall be printed on the covering or the package, the provisions of this Act 
shall be construed as applying only when said products are ready for con- 
sumption. 

Sixth. If it consists in whole or in part of a filthy, decomposed, or putrid 
animal or vegetable substance, or any portion of an animal unfit for food, 
whether manufactured or not, or if it is the product of a diseased animal, 
or one that has died otherwise than by slaughter. 

Sec. 8. That the term " misbranded," as used herein, shall apply to all 
drugs, or articles of food, or articles which enter into the composition of 
food, the package or label of which shall bear any statement, design, or 
device regarding such article, or the ingredients or substJtnces contained 
therein which shall be false or misleading in any particular, and to any food 
or drug product which is falsely branded as to the State, Territory, or country 
in which it is manufactured or produced. 



32 FOOD PRODUCTS 

That for the purposes of this Act an article shall also be deemed to be 
misbranded : 

In case of drugs : 

First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the name of another 
article. 

Second. If the contents of the package as originally put up shall have 
been removed, in whole or in part, and other contents shall have been 
placed in such package, or if the package fail to bear a statement on the 
label of the quantity or proportion of any alcohol, morphine, opium, cocaine, 
heroin, alpha or beta eucaine, chloroform, cannabis indica, chloral hydrate, 
or acetanilide, or any derivative or preparation of any such substances 
contained therein. 

Third. If its package or label shall bear or contain any statement, design, 
or device regarding the curative or therapeutic effect of such article or any of 
the ingredients or substances contained therein, which is false and fraudulent. 

In the case of food : 

First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the distinctive 
name of another article. 

Second. If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive or mislead the pur- 
chaser, or purport to be a foreign product when not so, or if the contents of 
the package as originally put up shall have been removed in whole or in 
part and other contents shall have been placed in such package, or if it 
fail to bear a statement on the label of the quantity or proportion of any 
morphine, opium, cocaine, heroin, alpha or beta eucaine, chloroform, canna- 
bis indica, chloral hydrate, or acetanilide, or any derivative or preparation 
of any of such substances contained therein. 

Third.i If in package form, the quantity of the contents be not plainly 
and conspicuously marked on the outside of the package in terms of weight, 
measure, or numerical count : Provided, however, That reasonable variations 
shall be permitted, and tolerances and also exemptions as to small packages 
shall be established by rules and regulations made in accordance with the 
provisions of section three of this Act. 

Fourth. If the package containing it or its label shall bear any statement, 
design, or device regarding the ingredients or the substances contained 
therein, which statement, design, or device shall be false or misleading in 
any particular : Provided, That an article of food which does not contain 
any added poisonous or deleterious ingredients shall not be deemed to be 
adulterated or^misbranded in the following cases : 

1 The act of March 3, 1913, provides that no penalty of fine, imprisonment, or 
confiscation shall be enforced for any violation of its provisions as to domestic products 
prepared or foreign products imported prior to eighteen months after its passage. 



\ 



FOOD LEGISLATION 33 

First. In the case of mixtures or compounds which may be now or from 
time to time hereafter known as articles of food, under their own distinctive 
names, and not an imitation of or offered for sale under the distinctive name 
of another article, if the name be accompanied on the same label or brand with 
a statement of the place where said article has been manufactured or pro- 
duced. 

Second. In the case of articles labeled, branded, or tagged so as to plainly 
indicate that they are compounds, imitations, or blends, and the word 
" compound," " imitation," or " blend," as the case may be, is plainly 
stated on the package in which it is offered for sale : Provided, That the 
term blend as used herein shall be construed to mean a mixture of like sub- 
stances, not excluding harmless coloring or flavoring ingredients used for 
the purpose of coloring and flavoring only : And provided further, That 
nothing in this Act shall be construed as requiring or compeUing proprietors 
or manufacturers of proprietary foods which contain no unwholesome added 
ingredient to disclose their trade formulas, except in so far as the provisions 
of this act may require to secure freedom from adulteration or misbranding. 

Sec. 9. That no dealer shall be prosecuted under the provisions of this 
Act when he can establish a guaranty signed by the wholesaler, jobber, 
manufacturer, or other party residing in the United States, from whom he 
purchases such articles, to the effect that the same is not adulterated or 
misbranded within the meaning of this Act, designating it. Said guaranty, 
to afford protection, shall contain the name and address of the party or 
parties making the sale of such articles to such dealer, and in such case said 
party or parties shall be amenable to the prosecutions, fines and other 
penalties which would attach, in due course, to the dealer under the provisions 
of this Act. 

Sec. id. That any article of food, drug, or liquor that is adulterated or 
misbranded within the meaning of this Act, and is being transported from 
one State, Territory, District, or insular possession to another for sale, or, 
having been transported, remains unloaded, unsold, or in original unbroken 
packages, or if it be sold or offered for sale in the District of Columbia or the 
Territories, or insular possessions of the United States, or if it be imported 
from a foreign country for sale, or if it is intended for export to a foreign 
country, shall be liable to be proceeded against in any district court of the 
United States within the district where the same is found, and seized for 
confiscation by a process of libel for condemnation. And if such article is 
condemned as being adulterated or misbranded, or of a poisonous of dele- 
terious character, within the meaning of this Act, the same shaU be disposed 
of by destruction or sale, as the said court may direct, and the proceeds 
thereof, if sold, less the legal costs and charges, shall be paid mto the Treasury 



34 FOOD PRODUCTS 

of the United States, but such goods shall not be sold in any jurisdiction 
contrary to the provisions of this Act or the laws of that jurisdiction : Pro- 
vided, however, That upon the payment of the costs of such libel proceedings 
and the execution and delivery of a good and sufficient bond to the effect 
that such articles shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of contrary to the 
provisions of this Act, or the laws of any State, Territory, District, or insular 
possession, the court may by order direct that such articles be delivered to 
the owner thereof. The proceedings of such libel cases shall conform, as 
near as may be, to the proceedings in admiralty, except that either party 
may demand trial by jury of any issue of fact joined in any such case, and 
all such proceedings shall be at the suit of and in the name of the United 
States. 

Sec. II. The Secretary of the Treasury shall deliver to the Secretary of 
Agriculture, upon his request from time to time, samples of foods and drugs 
which are being imported into the United States or offered for import, giving 
notice thereof to the owner or consignee, who may appear before the Secre- 
tary of Agriculture, and have the right to introduce testimony, and if it 
appear from the examination of such samples that any article of food or drug 
offered to be imported into the United States is adulterated or misbranded 
within the meaning of this Act, or is otherwise dangerous to the health of the 
people of the United States, or is of a kind forbidden entry into, or forbidden 
to be sold or restricted in sale in the country in which it is made or from which 
it is exported, or is otherwise falsely labeled in any respect, the said article 
shall be refused admission, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall refuse 
delivery to the consignee and shall cause the destruction of any goods re- 
fused delivery which shall not be exported by the consignee within three 
months from the date of notice of such refusal under such regulations as 
the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe : Provided, That the Secretary 
of the Treasury may deliver to the consignee such goods pending examina- 
tion and decision in the matter on execution of a penal bond for the amount 
of the full invoice value of such goods, together with the duty thereon, and 
on refusal to return such goods for any cause to the custody of the Secre- 
tary of the Treasury, when demanded, for the purpose of excluding them 
from the country, or for any other purpose, said consignee shall forfeit the 
full amount of the bond : And provided further, That all charges for storage, 
cartage, and labor on goods which are refused admission or delivery shall 
be paid by the owner or consignee, and in default of such payment shall 
constitute a lien against any future importation made by such owner or 
consignee. 

Sec. 12. That the term "Territory" as used in this Act shall include 
the insular possessions of the United States. The word " person " as used 



FOOD LEGISLATION 3^ 

in this Act shall be construed to import both the plural and the singular, 
as the case demands, and shall include corporations, companies, societies 
and associations. When construing and enforcing the provisions of this 
Act, the act, omission, or failure of any officer, agent, or other person acting 
for or employed by any corporation, company, society, or association, within 
the scope of his employment or office, shall in every case be also deemed to 
be the act, omission, or failure of such corporation, company, society, or 
association as well as that of the person. 

Sec. 13. That this Act shall be in force and effect from and after the 
first day of January, nineteen hundred and seven. 

Approved June 30, 1906. 

Notes on the National Law and the Rules and Regulations for 
its Enforcement 

Since in the chapters which follow there will frequently be 
occasion to refer to decisions which have been rendered or stand- 
ards which have been established under the National law, it 
will be advantageous at this point to refer to some of its more 
prominent features and to the provisions for its interpretation 
and enforcement. 

Scope and penalties. On account of the limitations placed 
by the Constitution upon Federal legislation of this sort, the 
law can directly prohibit the manufacture of adulterated or 
misbranded food only in the District of Columbia or the Ter- 
ritories. Indirectly, however, the manufacture of such food on 
a large scale anywhere in the country can be made difficult if 
not impracticable through the control of interstate and foreign 
commerce. Food manufactured and sold exclusively within the 
borders of any one state is subject only to state or municipal 
control, but any lot or package of food which passes from one 
state to another is subject to the provisions of the National law. 
Moreover, in all such interstate transactions in food products 
both the consignor and the consignee are liable unless one of 
them assumes complete liability under the provisions of Sec- 
tion 9. Often a shipment of food is seized and the prosecution 



36 FOOD PRODUCTS 

is brought against the goods, the interested parties being given 
opportunity to appear as claimants and answer the charge of 
adulteration or misbranding. 

The first case under the law which was carried through the Supreme Court 
of the United States related to the powers of the Government under this 
section. Preserved eggs were shipped from St. Louis, Mo., to Peoria, III. 
They were intended not for sale (as such) but for use in baking and were 
placed in the storeroom of the bakery along with other supplies. The Gov- 
ernment seized the eggs as adulterated food in interstate commerce; the 
egg company which had prepared them appeared as claimant and defended 
the suit but did not enter into a stipulation to pay costs. The case was 
tried in the United States District Court which found the eggs adulterated 
within the meaning of the act in that they contained about 2 per cent of 
boric acid which the court held to be a deleterious ingredient. The egg 
company contested the jurisdiction of the Court, claiming (i) that the law 
does not apply to an article which has been shipped not for sale but solely 
for use as a raw material in the manufacture of some other product, (2) that 
the United States District Court had no jurisdiction because the goods had 
passed out of interstate commerce and become mingled in the general mass 
of the property in the State of Illinois, and (3) that the Court had no juris- 
diction to enter a personal judgment against the egg company for costs. 
The Supreme Court found the position of the egg company untenable on 
each of these points and stated in its decision upholding the Government 
that the adulterated eggs were illicit articles which could not acquire im- 
munity by becoming a part of the general mass of property of the State and 
that the confiscation or destruction of such articles is the especial concern 
of the law. 

By comparison of Sections i and 2, it will be seen that the 
penalties for interstate commerce in adulterated or misbranded 
foods are somewhat less severe than for the manufacture of such 
food in those parts of the country which are under the direct 
jurisdiction of the Federal Government. 

Rules and regulations. Section 3 of the law makes it the duty 
of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, 
and the Secretary of Commerce to formulate uniform rules and 
regulations for the carrying out of the provisions of the law. 
As already mentioned, most of the provisions and definitions in 



f 



FOOD LEGISLATION 3y 

the law are general in character. It therefore became necessary 
for the three Secretaries in the Rules and Regulations, not only 
to provide a plan for the collection and examination of samples, 
but also to interpret many of the definitions of adulteration and 
misbranding. 

The Rules and Regulations adopted by the Secretaries are 
given in full at the back of this book (Appendix A). 

These rules and regulations are of course subject to review 
by the Courts and they do not have the force and effect of law 
except in so far as they interpret the law correctly. They are, 
however, of great importance as constituting the working basis 
for the enforcement of the law and will be frequently referred to 
in the discussions which follow. 

Food inspection decisions. The actual administration of the 
law and of the rules and regulations is the duty of the Secretary 
of Agriculture. Notwithstanding the adoption of the Rules 
and Regulations, several questions of interpretation requiring 
decision by the administrative officers have arisen. 

These decisions are published from the Office of the Secretary, 
United States Department of Agriculture, in a series of num- 
bered leaflets called Food Inspection Decisions (F. I. D.). 

A few of these decisions have been signed by the three Secre- 
taries and are practically amendments of the Rules and Regu- 
lations. In most cases, however, the " decisions " are simply 
declarations of the attitude of the Department of Agriculture 
and are signed either by the Secretary of Agriculture or by the 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection, which is a committee 
appointed by the Secretary from among the officials of the 
Department of Agriculture and who act as the representatives 
of the Secretary in the enforcement of the food law. These 
decisions of the administrative officers must not be confused with 
the decisions reached by the courts. The latter are found Under 
Notices of Judgment (see below). 

Many of the Food Inspection Decisions will be quoted in 



38 FOOD PRODUCTS 

later chapters in the discussion of the particular types of food 
to which they relate. Those of more general scope will be found 
at the back of this book (Appendix B). 

Collection of samples. Samples are collected only by author- 
ized agents of the Department of Agriculture or by some health, 
food, or drug officer commissioned by the Secretary of Agriculture 
for this purpose. TJhe collectors must purchase representative 
samples. Samples purchased in bulk are divided into three 
parts ; when in the original unbroken packages three such pack- 
ages are usually taken. One of the three samples is delivered 
to the chemist or examiner and two are held under seal by the 
Secretary of Agriculture, " who, upon request, shall deliver one 
of such samples to the party from whom purchased or to the 
party guaranteeing such merchandise." (Regulation 3.) 

The term " original unbroken package " as used in the law 
is defined, in the Rules and Regulations, as " the original pack- 
age, carton, case, can, box, barrel, bottle, phial, or other recep- 
tacle put up by the manufacturer, to which the label is attached, 
or which may be suitable for the attachment of the label " and 
it is held that the original package contemplated includes both 
the wholesale and the retail package. 

Examinations or analyses of samples are made in the labo- 
ratories of the Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of Agri- 
culture or under its direction and supervision. Unless other- 
wise directed by the Secretary of Agriculture, foods are analyzed 
by the methods of the Association of Ofiicial Agricultural Chem- 
ists, and drugs by the methods of the United States Phar- 
macopoeia. 

Standards of purity. The Pharmacopoeia gives standards 
of purity for drugs along with the methods of analysis. The 
methods of analysis of the Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists do not provide corresponding standards, but a set of 
standards drawn up by a committee of this Association was 
published as Circular No. 19, Office of the Secretary, United 



I 



FOOD LEGISLATION 39 

States Department of Agriculture, and these are usually, though 
not necessarily, followed in interpreting the analytical results. 
The food chemists of the different states are also apt to govern 
their decisions by these standards unless some other standard 
is provided for by state law. 

These standards, therefore, carry considerable weight and will 
be considered in connection with the discussions of the composi- 
tion of food materials in the chapters' which follow. They are 
variously designated as " United States Standards," " Govern- 
ment Standards," " Federal Standards," '' Department of 
Agriculture Standards," or "A. O. A. C. Standards." The 
latter term is the more accurate since these standards for foods, 
while often cited in Federal prosecutions, are not established by 
law nor referred to in the Rules and Regulations, but represent 
the action only of the Association of Official Agricultural Chem- 
ists (A. O. A. C). In connection with the Federal law and the 
laws of many states the force of these standards is practically 
that of expert testimony. In some states these or similar stand- 
ards have been written into the law itself and it has been pro- 
posed that the Federal law be amended to include such standards. 

Hearings (Regulation 5). When the examination or analysis 
indicates that a sample is adulterated or misbranded within the 
meaning of the law, notice is given to the party or parties re- 
sponsible for the food and opportunity is given for a hearing before 
the Secretary of Agriculture or his representative. These hear- 
ings are confined to questions of fact (as distinguished from ques- 
tions of law). The interested parties may appear in person 
or by attorney and may submit evidence to show any fault or 
error in the findings of the analyst or examiner and may present 
questions to be propounded to analysts by the officer conducting 
the hearing. The Secretary of Agriculture may order a reexam- 
ination of the sample or have new samples drawn for exami- 
nation. 

Prosecutions. If, after a hearing, it appears that a violation 



4b FOOD PRODUCTS 

of the law has been committed, the Secretary of Agriculture 
reports the case to the Department of Justice for prosecution, 
and action is brought by the proper United States attorney, the 
cases being tried in the Federal courts. 

Notices of judgment. Not less than thirty days after a judg- 
ment of the court shall have been rendered, the findings are 
published in such form as the Secretary of Agriculture may direct. 
Usually the result of each trial is published under a separate 
number and distributed in leaflet form, each leaflet containing 
one or more notices. These notices are numbered in series and 
designated as Notices of Judgment (N. J.) . Up to the beginning 
of 1 9 14, when the law had been seven years in effect, there had 
been issued from the Office of the Secretary of Agriculture 2762 
such Notices of Judgment.^ Of these cases more than nine 
tenths had been decided favorably to the Government. If an 
appeal is taken from the judgment of the court before the pub- 
lication of the Notice of Judgment, notice of the appeal must 
accompany the publication. 

Definitions of adulteration and misbranding. The types 
of adulteration and misbranding recognized by the law were 
summarized above and their exact wording may also be seen 
from the text of the law. Some types of adulteration and mis- 
branding can be demonstrated directly, while others are detected 
through the fact that analysis shows the article to be of inferior 
composition. The latter cases require the acceptance of some 
standard for comparison. For this purpose the standards of 
the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists already re- 
ferred to, have generally been upheld by the courts. Some of 
the Rules and Regulations and many of the Food Inspection 
Decisions are also in the nature of interpretations of the defini- 
tions of adulteration and misbranding. 

The clause which declares a food adulterated if it contain 
any added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient which 

1 In April, 19 14, the number had reached 3096. 



FOOD LEGISLATION 41 

may render such article injurious to health, has given rise to 
more discussion than any other part of the law. It had become 
a custom of the trade to use in the preparation of food a number 
of substances which had been found helpful in securing the de- 
sired color or keeping qualities of the foods, but whose whole- 
someness had sometimes been questioned. 

Congress declined to include in the food law any specific 
authorization or prohibition of any particular substance so used, 
leaving this to be covered by the rules and regulations which 
the three Secretaries were directed to prepare, and appropriating 
money to the Department of Agriculture for investigations as 
to the wholesomeness of these substances. 

The tltt-ee Secretaries then provided (Regulation 15b) that: 
" The Secretary of Agriculture shall determine from time to 
time, in accordance with the authority conferred by the agri- 
cultural appropriation act. Public 382, approved June 30, 1906, 
the principles which shall guide the use of colors, preservatives, 
and other substances added to foods ; and when concurred in by 
the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce, 
the principles so established shall become a part of these regu- 
lations." 

Regarding the wholesomeness of colors, it is the practice to 
permit the use of any natural vegetable or animal color which 
is not known to be impure or injurious, but to be much more 
stringent with respect to the use of artificial (synthetic) colors. 
Only seven artificial colors have so far been authorized and of 
these the purity of each batch must be attested before it can 
legally be used. (See Appendix.) 

Whether the presence of an authorized color must be declared 
upon the label will depend upon the nature of the food and will 
be considered in studying the different types of food in the chap- 
ters which follow. Any coloring which is intended to mislead 
is illegal and in most other cases the fact that the food has 
been artificially colored must be plainly stated. 



42 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Under these regulations many manufacturers who formerly 
used artificial coloring have ceased to do so. Thus one of the 
good effects of the law is that it results in foods being marketed 
in more nearly their normal appearance. 

The establishment of principles to guide the use of preserva- 
tives has presented greater difficulty than in the case of colors, 
partly for the obvious reason that the preservation of food is 
necessary while the coloring of food is not. It is true that by 
drying, by heating and canning, and to a certain extent by 
refrigeration, foods may be preserved from the season of abun- 
dance to the season of scarcity without the addition of any 
preservative substance, but such a restriction of method of 
preservation would often be unnecessarily burdensome and 
costly and would in many cases involve a loss of the flavor for 
which the food is chiefly prized. The prohibition of all pre- 
servative substances would be as unsatisfactory to the consumer 
as to the producer and has never been seriously contemplated. 
What has sometimes been attempted is to divide all preservative 
substances into two classes, those in one class to be freely per- 
mitted and those in the other class to be strictly forbidden. The 
fact that the law defines food in such a way as to include condi- 
ments has been construed as tacitly authorizing the unlimited 
use of such preservatives as have condimental properties (like 
salt, sugar, vinegar, and woodsmoke) and the question of whole- 
someness has as yet been officially raised only with respect to 
the noncondimental preservatives such as saltpeter, sodium 
benzoate, salicyUc acid, and sulphur dioxide. 

To assist the Secretary of Agriculture in determining the 
wholesomeness of certain of the preservative substances used, 
a Referee Board of Consulting Scientific Experts consisting of 
five prominent scientists, not otherwise connected with the 
Government service, has been appointed. In general such Rules 
and Regulations governing the use of preservatives as have been 
formulated by the three Secretaries have been based on the find- 



FOOD LEGISLATION 43 

ings of the Referee Board or have been made tentatively pending 
investigation. The regulations at present in force are given in 
full in Appendix B. As might be anticipated, when the different 
(noncondimental) preservative substances are treated each on 
its own merits the regulations deemed necessary are not the 
same in all cases. Regarding the four substances just mentioned 
the present Federal regulations are as follows : Saltpeter may 
be used without restriction ; sodium benzoate may be used 
with no restriction except that the presence and true amount 
must be stated on the label ; salicylic acid is forbidden; sulphur 
dioxide may be used only in those foods in which its use was 
already common and only in strictly limited amounts. 

Guaranty. In order to secure justice in the fixing of re- 
sponsibility, the law provides (Section 9) that the manufacturer 
or wholesaler may assume responsibility for his products so 
that he and not the retail dealer shall be held responsible in case 
of adulteration or misbranding. Formerly this was done by 
filing a general guaranty which was recorded under a Serial 
Number. Each package then bore a label showing the serial 
number and name and address of the party responsible for the 
guaranty. This guaranty was simply to fix responsibility and 
to protect the retail dealer. It afforded no additional protection 
to the consumer and added nothing to the penalty in case the 
food was found to be adulterated or misbranded. This, how- 
ever, was not always understood, many purchasers supposing 
that they derived some additional protection from such guar- 
anty. 

Notice has now been given of an amendment to Regulation 
9, relating to guaranty, which amendment, effective May i, 
1916, abolishes the issuing of serial numbers and forbids their 
use or the printing of the " guaranty legend " on the labels. 

Under the new regulation the guaranty should be incorpo- 
rated in or attached to the bill of sale, invoice, bill of lading, etc., 
and should not appear on the labels or packages. 



44 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Imported foods. Section ii of the law provides for the inspection oi 
foods while still in the hands of the customs officers or under bond. This 
greatly facilitates the prevention of importation of adulterated food, and it 
is believed that comparatively little adulterated food is now imported. 
When adulterated food bearing labels indicating a foreign origin is found 
in the American market the possibility of fraudulent labeling is also to be 
considered. Note that, as an additional precaution in the case of imported 
foods, the law forbids the importation of any kind of food which is forbidden 
entry to, or forbidden to be sold or restricted in sale in, the country in which 
it is made or from which it is exported. 

Private importations. In Food Inspection Decision 88 it is held that no 
food or drug which is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the 
act shall be brought into the United States from abroad even if only for the 
consumption of the importer or for free distribution. Such private importa- 
tions are subject to the same rules and restrictions as ordinary commercial 
imports. 

State and Municipal Food Control 

Since the Federal authorities cannot inspect or control any 
food which is produced and consumed in the same state, it is 
evident that each of the forty-eight states must have adequate 
legislation and inspection if its citizens are to obtain the full 
benefit of the pure food movement. In order fully to realize 
the importance of state and municipal control, one must remem- 
ber that some of the foods most readily subjected to fraudulent 
adulteration (e.g. milk) and some of those most subject to dan- 
gerous contamination (e.g. meats and shellfish) are largely 
handled by producers and dealers who do a local business and 
so do not come under the authority of the Federal government. 
Slaughtering and meat packing is now a highly centralized in- 
dustry and is regulated both by the Food and Drugs Act and by 
a special Meat Inspection Law (see Chapter VI and Appendix D), 
yet about half the meat consumed in the United States is 
slaughtered in local establishments which are never visited by 
the Federal inspectors because they do no interstate business. 

The rural population and the residents of small towns, who 
together make up about one half the people of the United 



FOOD LEGISLATION 4^ 

States, derive relatively little direct benefit from the Federal 
law. Indirectly they benefit in proportion as the Federal legis- 
lation and inspection serves to stimulate and standardize that 
of the states. At the present time most of the states have on 
their statute books food laws which are modeled more or less 
directly after the Federal law and which are fairly satisfactory 
in so far as they are enforced. Rarely, however, are sufficient 
funds appropriated to make possible a strict enforcement of the 
state law. 

On the other hand, state laws may be more stringent in some 
respects than those of the Federal government. Thus several 
states limit the time that food may be held in cold storage. 
The new (1914) Sanitary Code of New York State makes it 
unlawful for any person '' affected with any communicable 
disease to handle food or food products in any manner what- 
ever." 

The responsibility of the enforcement of state food laws is 
lodged sometimes with health officers, sometimes with the 
commissioner of agriculture, sometimes with a food commis- 
sioner independent of either the department of agriculture or of 
health. Not infrequently the office of '^ dairy and food com- 
missioner " has developed through the fact that legal regulation 
of the milk supply and dairy industry antedated general food 
legislation. Whatever the organization, it is important that 
the enforcement of the state food laws be in the hands of perma- 
nent officials, scientifically trained, gifted with good judgment 
and administrative capacity, and entirely independent of pohtics. 

State legislation and inspection may be supplemented by 
municipal ordinances enforced by distinct corps of officers. In 
New York City, for exaniple, the board of health has the power 
to enact a sanitary code which becomes law on pubHcation with- 
out requiring the approval of any other body or ofiicial. This 
code contains general rules for food control, and additional rules 
and regulations to govern certain industries are also promul- 



46 FOOD PRODUCTS 

gated by the board and thus become part of, and have the legal 
force of, the code. The board of health has the power to control 
any food industry by requiring that it be carried on only under 
permits granted by (and revokable by) the board. Violations 
of the sanitary code may be punished either by criminal prose- 
cution or civil suit. The policy has been to bring criminal prose- 
cution in all cases of actual adulteration. In 1913 there were 
118 inspectors connected with the New York City division of 
food inspection, of whom 41 were assigned to general food 
inspection, 19 to country milk inspection, 29 to city milk 
inspection, and 18 were sanitary inspectors engaged in the 
supervision of physical conditions in establishments where 
food is prepared or sold; there were also 4 medical inspectors 
and 7 veterinarians. For the laboratory examination of food 
the city employed 8 chemists with 7 technical and clerical assist- 
ants and 4 bacteriologists with 10 assistants. Furthermore, 
the city requires that the following food industries be carried 
on only under official permits and specific regulations : dealers 
in milk and all places where milk is sold; slaughterhouses, 
including poultry-killing establishments; sausage factories; 
egg-breaking establishments ; establishments for the bottling 
of " soft drinks " ; or for the manufacture of ice cream and other 
frozen products. 

In all probability the next few years will see a marked devel- 
opment of state and municipal food control along lines consis- 
tent with the Federal food inspection, but in some cases even 
more exacting, as, for example, in requiring the grading and 
classification of market milk and not simply that it be free from 
adulteration or misbranding. 

REFERENCES 

Abbott. Food and Drug Inspection. Article in Reference Handbook of 

the Medical Sciences, Vol. 3, pages 162-180. 
Bell. Sale of Food and Drugs Act (British). 



FOOD LEGISLATION 



47 



BiGELOW. Foods and Food Control. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 69. 

BucHKA. Die Nahrungsmittelgesetzgebung in Deutschen Reiche. 

DuNLAP. Food Laws of the United Kingdom and their Administration. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 

143- 

Dunn. Pure Food and Drug Legal Manual. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Neufeldt. Der Nahrungsmittelchemiker als Sachverstandiger. 

Parry. Foods and Drugs, Vol. 2. 

Proceedings of the Association of State and National Dairy and Food De- 
partments. 

United States Department of Agriculture. Food Inspection Decisions and 
Notices of Judgment. 

Westervelt. Pure Food and Drug Laws, Federal and State. 

Wiley. Foods and Their Adulterations. 



CHAPTER III 
MILK 

Milk is the one_ajlide-of--xiiet_whose sole function in nature 
Js to serve as food . Each species of mammal produces a milk 
especially adapted to the nutritive requirements of its own 
young, but it was early learned that the milk of other species 
is also an excellent food for man, and several different species 
are used for dairy purposes in various parts of the world. In 
general only cows' milk is of much commercial importance, and 
the statements which follow refer always to cows' milk unless 
otherwise explained. 

The amount of milk consumed as such ^ in the United States 
is estimated at one half pint to one third of a quart per person 
per day. This amounts to some 25,000,000 to 30,000,000 quarts 
per day for the country as a whole. If the average retail value 
is about 5 cents a quart, the milk industry of the country \Yill be 
seen to amount to over $1,250,000 a day or over $400,000,000 
per year. 

The importance of the milk industry to the community is 
much greater than its money value (as compared with other 
industries) would imply. It is probable that the quality of the 
milk supply bears a closer relation to the public health than does 
that of any other food. This is partly because of the excep-_ 
tjonal nutr itive qu alities of milk, a nd the prominent part which 
it plays in the diet of children and others to whom the quality 
of the food is of special importance, and partly because the 

1 A much larger quantity is used for the manufacture of butter and cheese. 
These industries will be described later. 

48 



I 



MILK . 49 

fluidit y a n H op ar it}^ of m i lk -QgeniuxusuaLopportumty^foF adul- 
teratigii; and the f act that bacter ia readily grow and multiply 
in it makes it especially important that the milk be carefully 
guarded from contamination. 

It is therefore important that the milk industry be controlled 
with all possible care and with reference both to the nutritive 
and to the sanitary qualities of the product. 

In the present chapter the production and handling of milk 
will first be outlined, then its composition and standards of 
purity will be discussed, and finally its nutritive value, pecu- 
niary economy, and place in the diet will be considered. 

Production and Handling of Milk 

The cows. A milch cow should produce an average of over 
2 gallons of milk per day for eight months of each year with a 
smaller yield for about two months longer, making a total of at 
least 600 gallons or at least 5000 pounds of milk for the year. 

Many high-grade cows produce three or four times this quan- 
tity, and Wing cites the case of one cow which produced over 
30,000 pounds of milk in a year; but the average for all the milch 
cows in the United States at the present time would doubtless 
be below the 5000 pounds suggested. 

Increased yield of milk per cow may be obtained both by 
^breeding and selection and by sui^nor care and f eeding. Ac- 
cording to a recenresTimate the annual yield ot milE per cow in 
Denmark, where the dairy industry is well developed and highly 
systematized, has increased from 4480 pounds in 1898 to 4884 
pounds in 1901, 5335 pounds in 1904, and 5874 pounds in 1908. 

Since the fat of the milk is commercially its most valuable 
constituent, the productiveness of a milch cow is perhaps as 
often expressed in terms of fat or butter yieldas in terms of 
weight of milk. Those races of cattle which have been devel- 
oped with special reference to milk or butter production are 
called the dairy breeds, and those which are chiefly useful for 



50 FOOD PRODUCTS 

meat production are known as beef breeds. A recent investi- 
gation in Wisconsin ^ showed a higher food consumption on the 
part of the more productive dairy cows, but the value of the milk 
produced increased much more rapidIy~Ehan the cost of feed so 
that the more productive cows proved very much more profitable. 

Go od hea lthoft he cow i'^ nf p;T-p^,t iri iportance j jid^should 
be insured by se miannual veterinar y inspection. Annual or 
semiannual testing with .^tuberculin with elimination or segre- 
gation of all cows which give evidence of tuberculosis serves to 
protect the herd from the ravages of the disease as well as to 
remove one source of possible danger to the consumer of the 
milk. When new cows are to be added to a dairy herd, care 
should be taken to ascertain that they are free from disease, 
particularly J^^ibprnilrx^j^ 

Dirt and dust adhering to the cow constitute one of the most 
serious sources of contamination of milk. It is therefore very 
important that the cows be kept clean and especially that the 
udder and adjacent parts of the body be thoroughly clean at 
the time of milking. 

The stable should be free from contaminating surroundings, 
2. well drained, well lighted and ventilated, as clean and comfort- 
able as possible. It should be used for no other purpose than the 
keeping of cows, and if there is a loft overhead the ceiling should 
be tight to prevent the falling of dust. The feeding of the cows 
should be so planned that there will be no dust from hay or other 
feed in the air of the stable at milking time. The floor should 
be tight, constructed preferably of cement and properly 
guttered ; walls and ceilings should be whitewashed twice a year. 

The milk house should be separate from the stable and so 
located as to be free from dust and odors. It should be used 
for no other purpose and should be light, clean, and well screened. 

1 Studies in Dairy Production, based on the Records secured in the Wisconsin 
Dairy Cow Competition, 1909-1911. Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station, 
Research Bulletin 26 (October, 1912). 



MILK 51 

All utensils which come in contact with the milk should 
be of metal with smoothly soldered joints. In addition to being 
thoroughly washed the utensils should be sterilized by means of 
steam or boiling water and then kept either closed or inverted 
in a clean place free from dust until used. By furnishing the 
farmers with sterilized utensils_ for each milking and insisting 
upon the use of covered milking pails (see below) Dr. North 
effected an enormous reduction in the bacterial contamination 
of milk. 

Milking is performed sometimes by machine, but usually by 
hand. Cleanliness of the milker and his clothing are essential 
to cleanliness of the milk. On well-conducted milk farms the 
milker puts on a special washable suit for milking and' washes 
and dries his hands immediately before commencing to milk 
each cow. The cows having previously been cleaned, the udders 
and flanks should be wiped with a moist cloth preparatory to 
milking. As a further precaution against the falUng of dust 
and bacteria into the milk a covered or hooded milking pail 
should be used. 

Machines by means of which one man may milk several cows 
at a time are now on the market. These have the advantage of 
reducing the number of employees required in milking and 
diminishing the opportunities for contamination of the milk 
through contact with the air of the stable or the hands of the 
milker ; among the disadvantages are the cost of the equipment 
necessary for machine milking and the difficulty of preventing 
the rubber parts of the mechanism from becoming a breeding 
place for bacteria. A recent extended study at the New York 
State Agricultural Experiment Station ^ led to the conclusion 
that machine milk now compares favorably with ordinary hand 
milking in its effect upon the milk flow and upon the germ con- 
tent of the milk ; that machine milking has proven practicable 
and is of interest mainly because of the labor problem. 

1 Bulletin No. 353, November, 191 2. 



5^. FOOD PRODUCTS 

Handling the milk. The milk is removed from the stable 
to the milk room as quickly as possible and (after clarifying or 
straining through sterile cotton or cloth if deemed necessary) 
is promptly cooled to prevent the growth and multiplication 
of such bacteria as it may contain.^ The importance of early 
and thorough cooling was well shown in an experiment by Conn, 
in which it was found that the multiplication of bacteria in 24 
hours in milk kept at 50° F. (10 ° C.)^as only fivefold, while 
at 70° F. (21° C.) it was seven hundred and fifty fold. 

Usually the milk is first poured into a mixing tank, then run 
over a metal cooler, and the cold milk filled into cans or bottles 
and kept cold both in storage and during transportation. In 
many localities it is required by law that milk be held at a tem- 
perature not above 50° or 55° F. until delivered to the consumer. 
Preferably the milk is bottled in the country, the bottles packed 
in cracked ice and kept so until delivered to the consumer. 

General sanitation. In recent years much attention has been 
given to improvements in the sanitkry conditions surrounding 
the production and handling of milk, largely because it is real- 
ized that contaminated milk may undergo such deterioration 
as to become unwholesome, or may be the means of transmitting 
specific infectious diseases. As an aid to dairy farmers the Dairy 
Division of the United States Department of Agriculture has 
published for free distribution Twenty Dairy Suggestions with 
Special Reference to Sanitation, which are printed on cloth in 
poster form suitable for posting in barns and milk rooms. The 
rules for the production and handling of certified milk, which may 
be taken as representing ideal conditions, are given in full at 
the back of this book. (See Appendix C.) 

As an example of the influence of sanitary precautions upon 
the keeping qualities of milk, it may be noted that three Ameri- 

1 The multiplication of bacteria in milk does not begin as soon as the milk is 
drawn, but is preceded by a short period in which there is an apparent decrease in 
the number of bacteria. This is attributed to a " bactericidal property " of freshly 
drawn milk. 



MILK 



53 



can dairy farms exhibited raw milk at the Paris Exposition of 
1900, one of them sending weekly shipments throughout the 
summer, each of which was kept on exhibition in the raw state 
without spoilage until the next shipment arrived. It was 
difficult to convince the jury of European experts of the fact 
that '' cleanliness and cold " were the only preservatives needed 
to accomplish the keeping of raw milk in a fresh sweet condition 
for two to four weeks in midsummer. 

In order to provide definite standards for judging and record- 
ing sanitary conditions, dairy score cards have been formulated 
and are widely used. The one published by the Bureau of Ani- 
mal Industry, United States Department of Agriculture,^ is 
given on pages 54 and 55. 

The ratings obtained by dairies under the score card system 
of inspection are often employed as one means of classifying 
milks with regard to their degrees of excellence. Usually the 
sanitary quality of the milk as judged by laboratory methods 
runs approximately parallel with the sanitary care exercised in 
its production and handling, but there are sometimes discrep- 
ancies; and at present there is difference of opinion among san- 
itarians as to the relative weight which should be given (i) to 
the dairy score, (2) to the results of laboratory examinations, 
for the purpose of fixing the sanitary quaUty of the milk offered 
for sale. 

In this connection the following statement recently author- 
ized by the United States Department of Agriculture is of 
interest : 

Information has come to the Department of Agriculture that persons, 
representing certain milk dealers, are circulating the statement that the 
United States Department of Agriculture has abandoned all bacteriological 
examination of milk as a test for its cleanliness and fitness for human con- 
sumption. 

The Department, therefore, has issued the following statement df its 
position. 

1 Twenty-sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Animal Industry, p. 120. 



54 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Score for equipment . 



DAIRY SCORE CARD 

+ Score for methods 



.Final score 



Equipment 


Score 


Methods 


Score 












Perfect 


Allowed 




Perfect 


Allowed 


cows 






cows 






Health 


6 




Cleanliness of cows . . 


8 




Apoarently in good 












health . . i 












If tested with tubercu- 






STABLES 






lin once a year and 






Cleanliness of stables 


6 




no tuberculosis is 






Floor 2 






found, or if tested 






Walls I 


, 




once in six months 






Ceiling and ledges . i 






and all reacting ani- 






Mangers and parti- 






mals removed . . 5 






tions I 






(If tested only 






Window .... I 






once a year and re- 






Stable air at milking 






acting animals found 






time 


6 




and removed, 2.) 






' Barnyard clean and well 






Comfort 


2 




drained 


2 




Bedding i 






Removal of manure 






Temperature of stable i 






daily to field or 






Food (clean and wholesome) 


2 




proper pit ... . 


2 




Water 


2 




(To so feet from 






Clean and fresh . . i 






stable, I.) 






Convenient and abun- 












dant I 






MILK ROOM 






STABLES 






Cleanliness of milk room 


3 




Location of stable . . 


2 










Well drained . . . i 






UTENSILS AND MILKING 






Free from contaminat- 












ing surroundings . . i 






Care and cleanliness of 






Construction of stable . 


4 




utensils 


8 




Tight, sound floor and 






Thoroughly washed and 






proper gutter . . 2 






sterilized in live steam 






Smooth, tight walls 






for 30 minutes . . $ 






and ceiling . . . i 






(Thoroughly 






Proper stall, tie, and 






washed and placed 






manger . . . . i 






over steam jet, 4; 






Light: Four sq. ft. of 






thoroughly washed 






glass per cow . . . 


4 




and scalded with 






(Three sq. ft., 3; 






boiling water, 3 ; 






2 sq.ft., 2; I sq.ft., I. 






thoroughly washed, 






Deduct for uneven 






not scalded, 2.) 






distribution.) 






Inverted in pure air . 3 






Ventilation : Automatic 






Cleanliness of milking . 


9 




system 


3 




Clean, dry hands . 3 






(Adjustable win- 






Udders washed and 






dow, I.) 






dried 6 






Cubic feet of space for 






(Udders cleaned 






cow : 500 to 1000 feet 


3 




with moist cloth, 4; 






(Less than 500 feet, 






cleaned with dry 






2 ; less than 400 feet, 






cloth at least 15 






I ; less than 300 feet. 






minutes before milk- 






0; over 1000 feet, 0.) 






ing, I.) 







MILK 



55 



DAIRY SCORE CARD — Continued 

Score for equipment + Score for methods = 



Fmal: 





Score 




Score 


Equipment 




Methods 




Perfect 


AUowed 


Perfect 


Allowed 


UTENSILS 






HANDLING THE MILK 






Construction and condi- 






Cleanliness of attendants 


I 




tion of utensils . . 


I 




Milk removed immediately 






Water for cleanmg . . 


I 




from stable .... 


2 




(Clean, convenient 






Prompt cooling (cooled im- 






and abundant.) 






mediately after milking 






Small-top milking pail . 


3 




each cow) 


2 




Facilities for hot water or 






Efficient cooling ; below 






steam 


I 




5o°F 


5 




(Should be in 






(51° to 55°, 4; 56° 






milk house, not in 






to 60°, 2.) 






kitchen.) 






Storage ; below 50° F. . . 


3 




Milk cooler .... 


I 




(Si° to 55°, 2; 56° 






Clean milking suits . . 


I 




to 60°, I.) 
Transportation; iced in 






MILK ROOM 






summer 

(For jacket or wet 


3 




Location of milk room . 


2 




blanket allow 2 ; dry 






Free from contaminat- 






blanket or covered 






ing surroundings . i 












Convenient . . . . i 












Construction of milk 












room 


2 










Floor, walls, and ceil- 












mg I 












Light, ventilation, 












screens . . . . i 






Total 






Total . . . 


40 




60 





I. All statements that the Department has abandoned, or will abandon, 
the bacteriological examination of milk shipped in interstate commerce as 
a means of determining its cleanliness and fitness for human consumption 
are without foundation. While the Department has not fixed any specific 
bacteriological count as a standard in the enforcement of the Food and 
Drugs Act, it does use bacteriological examinations in reaching its conclusions, 
and will continue to use these methods irrespective of what action any Associ- 
ation may take. The Department has never stated that it will not use such 
methods. 

2. The only change in policy in the Department in regard to bacteriologi- 
cal examinations has been to discontinue basing prosecution upon the 
bacteriological examination of a single sample. It now collects a number of 
samples at different times and examines them bacteriologically. If the bac- 



56 FOOD PRODUCTS 

teriological examination shows that the milk is not clean, but is not a serious 
menace to health, and the bacteriological deviation from clean milk is a 
small one, the Department, through the Bureau of Animal Industry, en- 
deavors to teach the dairyman how to produce clean milk. If he then 
neglects to take measures to make his milk clean and safe for human con- 
sumption, the Department, by taking action in the case of milk shipped in 
interstate commerce, endeavors to force him to bring his milk to a point of 
safety and food excellence through prosecutions under the Food and Drugs 
Act. 

Certified milk. This term is properly applied only to milk 
pr oduced under sanitary conditions of exceptional pYrp)rpnrp^ 
by the most painstaking methods an d u nder the con stan t super- 
vision and inspection of a Medical Milk Commission. It is 
understood as medlilllg Lliat ihe milk is certified as to its quality 
and wholesomeness by a properly constituted medical milk 
commission. The medical profession was led to engage in the 
certification of milk in order that there might be made avail- 
able for infant feeding at least a limited supply of milk of excep- 
tional excellence which should be as nearly as possible absolutely 
safe. The requirements placed upon the producer and handler 
are such as to make thg-^QStofc ertified rr iilk nhont twirp thn't_ 
of ordinpirily p^ond bottlpH rmll^^, Althmiprb less than i per cent 
of the market milk of commerce is of this grade, the certified 
milk movement has had great influence in improving dairy prac- 
tice and raising the sanitary quality of the general milk supply. 
The detailed requirements for the production and handling of 
certified milk are given in Appendix C at the back of this 
book. 

The North system of sanitary milk production differ^ from 
the system in which certified milk is produced in that much of 
the responsibility which the certified milk system imposes upon 
the farmer is by the North system transferred to the receiving 
station. The farmer must keep only healthy cows and must 
clean them before milking, and the milk must be drawn by a 
clean milker into covered pails, transferred without straining 




MILK 



51 



» 



to the milk cans and kept in icewater until sent to the receiving 
station. At the receiving station all pails and cans are thor- 
oughly washed, sterilized with live steam, dried with a blast of 
hot air, covered and delivered back to the farmer who must 
keep them unopened until the next milking time. Other fea- 
tures of the North system are daily laboratory tests of each 
farmer's milk at the receiving station and payment according 
to the quality of the milk as shown by these tests. 

Pasteurization of milk by heating it to a temperature of 
6oJ to ^63^ C. (140 ^ to 145° F.) and holding at this tempera- 
ture for 20 to 30 minutes serves to destroy any bacteria of 
diseases regarded as transmissible by milk. The use of higher 
temperatures in order to shorten the time required for pasteuri- 
zation is often permitted, but is undesirable ; partly because of 
the possibility that higher temperature may cause chemical 
changes in certain of the substances in the milk ; partly because 
higher heating kills an undue proportion of the lactic acid bac- 
teria while the spores of certain bacteria which decompose the 
proteins of the milk are not destroyed and, if the milk be kept 
too long, may render it unwholesome before it becomes sour. 
As a precaution against subsequent contamination it is desirable 
that the milk be pasteurized in the sealed bottles in which it is 
to be delivered to the consumer. This can be done commer- 
cially at little cost on a large scale by means of apparatus already 
on the market for the pasteurization of bottled beer. There is 
a growing tendency on the part of pubhc health authorities to 
require the pasteurization of all market milk which is not ob- 
tained under good sanitary conditions from tubercuHn-tested 
cows. 

General Composition of Milk 

The qualitative composition has been concisely stated by 
Richmond as follows : " It is essentially an aqueous solution of 
milk-sugar, albumin, and certain salts, holding in suspension 



58 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



globules of fat, and in a state of semi-solution, casein ^ together 
with mineral matter. Small quantities of other substances 
are also found." Under the microscope the fat globules are 
readily seen floating in the fluid portion or serum of the milk. 
(See Fig. 2.) These globules vary considerably in size from an 



99°o^O' 



° ° rr\ 



"9^m°°^p:€ 



o??£° 



o°V°c&°^"°^o5^>.Qo-^9. 



Fig. 2. — Fat globules in milk magnified 300 diameters. 

average of about 0.0025 millimeter or 0.0001 inch in diameter. 
A single drop of milk contains many millions of these fat globules. 

The yellowish tint of milk is due to a small quantity of color- 
ing matter contained in the fat, and its opacity in part to the 
fat and in part to other constituents, particularly the caseinogen 
and the calcium phosphate. The reaction of fresh cows' milk is 
practically neutral to litmus and slightly acid to phenolphthalein, 
due chiefly to the presence of phosphates and carbonic acid. 

Colostrum, the fluid secreted from the mammary glands for 
a short time after giving birth to the young, is different in 
composition and physiological properties. Under the micro- 
scope colostrum shows characteristic corpuscles in addition to 
the fat globules seen in milk. 

The quantitative composition of milk varies with a number of 
conditions the most prominent of which are the breed and the 



^ For this protein as it exists in milk the term "caseinogen" is perhaps preferable, 
the term "casein" being more strictly applicable to the coagulated protein as it 
exists in curd or cheese. 



MILK 



59 



individual characteristics of the cow. It is difficult to make 
fair comparisons of breeds because there may be within the same 
breed different strains or families which differ markedly in the 
composition of their milk. The following figures obtained by 
averaging the results of independent breed tests made at the 
Agricultural Experiment Stations of New York and New Jersey 
are believed to be fairly representative : 

Table i. Composition of Milk of Different Breeds of Cattle 



• Breed 


Total SoLros 


Fat 


SOLIDS-NOT-FAT 




Per cent 


Percent 


Percent 


Jersey 


14.87 


5-19 


9.68 


Guernsey .... 


14.69 


S.16 


953 


Durham .... 


13-38 


4-oS 


9.33 


Ayrshire .... 


12.73 


3-64 


9.09 


Holstein .... 


11.96 


343 


8.53 



Among the conditions other than breed and individuality 
which may influence the composition of cows' milk may be 
mentioned advancement in lactation, the season of the year, 
feeding and care, time and completeness of milking. 

After a cow has been three or four months in lactation there 
is usually a decrease in the milk and a gradual increase in the 
richness of the milk as the period of lactation advances. At 
the end of the lactation period when the cow is " going dry " 
there is sometimes a marked increase in the richness of the milk, 
but the quantity produced at such times is usually too small 
to exert much influence on the average composition of the 
mixed milk of the herd. 

Other conditions being the same, the milk of well-kept cows 
is usually richer in winter than in summer, in cooler than in 
warmer weather, and on rich dry food than on pasture, except 
that on first admitting the cows to pasture in spring or early 
summer a richer milk may be obtained for a short time. The 



6o FOOD PRODUCTS 

milk of late autumn or early winter usually averages from 0.25 
to 0.50 per cent higher in fat and also in protein than the milk of 
midsummer. 

Doubtless reasonably good feeding and care are necessary to 
secure from each cow as rich a milk as she is normally capable 
of producing, and there are indications that by changes of food, 
liberal feeding with special foods or perhaps other special treat- 
ment, a cow may be made to produce for a time a milk above 
her normal standard of richness. In general practice, however, 
the dairy farmer depends upon breeding and selection to secure 
milk of high richness and expects the return for liberal feeding 
and exceptional care to take the form of an increased yield of 
milk rather than a permanent change in its composition. 

In general a longer interval of time between milkings results 
in a slightly decreased fat content. This is often the cause of 
a fairly constant difference of 0.25 to 0.50 per cent of fat in the 
morning and afternoon milk of the same herd. 

All statements regarding the composition of cows' milk ordi- 
narily refer to the product of complete milking. In partial or 
fractional milking the first portions drawn are much poorer in 
fat content than the average, and the last portions, or " strip- 
pings," are much richer. 

The extreme variations in composition of milk from cows 
apparently normal have been compiled by the writer elsewhere.^ 
Since market milk is nearly always the mixed product of many 
cows and often of many herds, a knowledge of these extremes is 
for practical purposes much less significant than is a knowledge 
of the usual variations. The following table includes a state- 
ment of (i) the variations which may be considered not unusual, 
(2) an estimate of average composition based on all available 
data, (3) a convenient approximation to the estimate average 
which is sufficiently accurate for most purposes and is generally 
used in estimates of the food value of milk. 

1 Methods of Organic Analysis, Revised Edition, page 351. 



MILK 



6i 



Table 2. Composition of Milk; Usual Limits and Average 



I 



Constituent 


Usual Limits of 


Estimated 


Convenient 




Variation 


Average 


Approximation 




Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Fat ... . 


3.0-6.0 


4.00 


4.0 


Protein . . . 


3.0-4.0 


3-2>2, 


2,-3> 


Carbohydrate . 


4.6-5.0 


4.85 


5-0 


Ash ... . 


0.70-0.78 


0.72 


0.7 


Solids-not-fat . 


8.5-9-5 


8.90 


9.0 



It will be noted that the fat is much the most variable con- 
stituent and that the protein varies about one third as much as 
the fat. In general the variations in the protein content are in 
the same direction as the fat. Thus genuine milk with 3 per cent 
fat averages about 3 per cent protein ; with 4 per cent fat about 
3.33 per cent protein ; with 5 per cent fat about 3.66 per cent 
protein; with 6 per cent fat about 4 per cent protein. Such 
differences in fat and protein content are usually accompanied 
by veryiittle_ variation in the percen tages of milJkjiigarjjid ash. 

Another way of expressing the relationship of the constituents 
is that the proteins usually constitute about one fourth of the 
total solids, the remainder of the fluctuations in total solids 
being almost entirely due to the fat.^ 

Such statements as the above express average relationships. 
It is not to be expected that they will hold true for every sample. 
Marked departure from these relationships is, however, an occa- 
sion for suspicion when observed in market milk, because such 
milk is nearly always the mixed product of an entire herd (often 
of several herds) and is therefore not normally subject to such 
fluctuations in composition as is the milk of individual cows. 

Another fact worthy of note is that very rarely if ever are 
minimum or maximum percentages of all constituents found in 
any one sample of genuine milk. For this reason the figures 

1 For further data see Methods of Organic Analysis, Revised Edition, pages 349- 
352. 



62 FOOD PRODUCTS 

for usual limits of variation in solids-not-fat in the above table 
do not exactly coincide with the summation of the corresponding 
data for proteins, carbohydrate, and ash. 

In many cases it is convenient to consider the solids of milk 
simply in terms of fat and of solids-not-fat. In fact this is usually 
considered sufficient in the formulation of legal standards of 
composition, as will be seen below. 

Adulteration and Inspection 

Milk may be deliberately adulterated or it may become an 
adulterated product (within the present meaning of the term) 
through contamination or deterioration. 

The principal forms of deliberate adulteration to which milk 
is subjected are watering, s kimming , the addition of p reserva- 
tives, and attempts to conceal inferiority by the use of a rtificial 
color or thickening agents , and by the addition of sodium bi- 
carbonate to disguise the fact that the milk has begun to sour. 

In most localities all these practices are made illegal either 
by specific prohibition or by some general provision that milk 
to which anything has been added or from which anything has 
been abstracted shall be deemed adulterated. 

Watering is of course the simplest form of adulteration and 
is objectionable both as a fraud and as a source of contamina- 
tion. A large part of the contamination of milk comes from the 
use of impure water in washing utensils, etc., and if such water 
is added to the milk in any quantity, the contamination will of 
course be much more serious. In most localities the watering 
of milk is much less common now than formerly. 

Skimming, by which is meant either the removal of a part 
of the cream or the addition of skimmed or partially skimmed 
milk, is probably more common than watering. As the same 
farmer often sells both milk and cream, the temptation to remove 
a part of the cream before selling the milk (especially if the milk 
originally contains considerably more fat than the law requires) 



MILK 5- 

is obvious. The fact that some state standards require a high 
content of solids-not-fat and a relatively low fat content con- 
stitutes an incentive to partial skimming. 

Artificial color is occasionally added to restore the yellow tint 
of milk which has been partially skimmed or to make a milk 
which is naturally of poor quaUty appear richer than it is. 

Addition of preservatives is not as common now as formerly, 
at least in cities having systematic milk inspection. The 
preservatives chiefly used are ^rmaldehyd ejjid-bQri^^acid or 
borax. At present these preservatives appear to be less com- 
monly sold by dairy supply houses, and their use is largely re- 
stricted to small towns having no milk inspection and to hotels 
and restaurants which may add preservatives to their milk after 
purchase in order to diminish the necessity for strict refrigeration 
and the chances of souring when kept on hand to meet an uncer- 
tain demand. An investigation in Chicago showed a much 
larger proportion of cases of added preservatives in the samples 
of milk from hotels and restaurants than in the samples taken 
from milk dealers. 

Contaminated or deteriorated milk can be treated as adulter- 
ated under that clause of the Food and Drugs Act which declares 
a food to be adulterated if it consists in whole or in part of " a 
filthy decomposed or putrid animal or vegetable substance." 
As will be evident from the section which follows, the sanitary 
quality as well as the chemical composition of milk is now re- 
garded as a proper matter for standardization. 

The conduct of inspection. Practices differ greatly in regard 
to milk inspection. Municipal authorities usually have wide 
discretion in the matter, under their general " police powers," 
and city ordinances often go rhuch farther than state legislation 
in attempts to control the milk supply. City boards of health 
often have inspectors in the country to visit farms and receiving 
stations as well as in the city to inspect the milk as it comes 
to market and as it is offered for sale. 



64 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



The sanitary conditions of production and handling reported 
by the country inspectors may be made the basis of renewal or 

revocation of the per- 
mit to sell milk in the 
city or of the classi- 
fication or designation 
under which it may 
be sold. The city in- 
spectors seek to detect 
or prevent unsanitary 
practices in the city and 
the sale of milk which 
has been skimmed or 
watered or is other- 
wise adulterated or de- 
teriorated. 

Th ermo meter and 
lactometer tests. As 
prelimiiTS,ry tests the 
city milk inspector often 
takes the temperature 
of the milk and its read- 
ing on the lactometer, 
which is merely a hy- 
drometer so constructed 
as to cover a sufficient 
range in density to in- 
clude all qualities of 
milk. Milk showing 
too high a temperature 
is sometimes destroyed 
forthwith. In other 
cases the high tempera- 
ture is construed simply 



1.000 


f^ 





'-> 








I.OOEr 
1.010- 
1.016 
1.020- 
1.025- 




10- 
20- 

30n 

40- 
60- 
60- 
70- 
80- 
90- 
100 


_ 


15- 
20- 

25- 






1.030- 
1.035- 


A. 


110- 
.120- 


J 


30- 
35- 
40- 







Fig. 3. — Lactometer scales: A, hydrometer; 

B, New York City Board of Health lactometer ; 

C, Quevenne lactometer. (From Wing's Milk 
and its Products.) 



MILK 



65 



as requiring a laboratory examination for bacteria. A low 
lactometer reading is not sufficient in itself to condemn milk, 
but aids the inspector to judge whether further examination 
is necessary. 

The lactometer may be graduated to read specific gravity 
or on an arbitrary scale. The New York Board of Health lac- 
tometer has an arbitrary scale of which the zero point coincides 
with a specific gravity of i.ooo and the 100 point with a specific 
gravity of 1.029. Figure 3 shows the different lactometer scales 
side by side. 

Whole milk normally has a specific gravity of 1.029 to 1.035 ; 
usually 1.030 to 1.033, ^-nd should therefore read more than 100 
on the New York Board of Health lactometer. 

The specific gravity or lactometer reading of milk is lowered 
either by addition of water or addition of cream; but milk 
which is naturally rich in fat, being usually rich in protein also, 
ordinarily has a higher specific gravity or lactometer reading 
than the average. If in addition to the lactometer reading the 
viscosity and opacity of the milk be observed by carefully watch- 
ing the lactometer bulb on lifting it out of the milk, it is 
possible for an experienced inspector to form a fairly reliable 
impression as to whether the milk is open to suspicion and should 
be sampled for laboratory analysis. 

Chemical analysis when made for purposes of inspection 
consists usually in determining the percentages of fat and of 
total solids or ' solids-not-fat and testing for preservatives. 
(See Methods of Organic Analysis, Revised Edition, Chapters 
XVII and XVIII.) 

The sediment test. consists usually in straining a pint of the 
milk through a cotton disk one inch in diameter and then noting 
the appearance of the disk, which may be pure white, light 
gray, or brown, according to the cleanness of the milk. The 
disks can easily be dried and mailed to the farmer or milk dealer 
concerned, and their significance may be appreciated without a 



66 FOOD PRODUCTS 

knowledge of chemistry or bacteriology. This test is fully 
described and illustrated in Circular of Information 41, of the 
Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station. 

The bacteria test consists in mixing a known small volume of 
the milk (previously diluted with sterilized water if necessary) 
with a nutrient medium in a fiat-bottomed glass dish (Petri 
plate), keeping covered at a favorable temperature for one or 
two days, and then counting the number of colonies as an indi- 
cation of the number of bacteria originally present. These 
methods are fully described in text books of bacteriology, and 
in a special bulletin of the American Public Health Association. 

Standards of Purity 

Since skimming and watering are the two chief forms of adul- 
teration which directly affect the composition and food value of 
milk, any specific standard of composition should set a mini- 
mum limit for fat to guard against skimming and a minimum 
limit for solids-not-fat to guard against watering. 

The National law sets no such specific standards but in the 
administration of the law the following standard proclaimed 
by the Department of Agriculture on recommendation of the 
Association of Official Agricultural Chemists is commonly 
followed : 

Milk is the fresh, clean, lacteal secretion obtained by the 
complete milking of one or more healthy cows, properly fed 
and kept, excluding that obtained within fifteen days before 
and ten days after calving, and contains not less than 8.5 per 
cent of solids-not-fat and not less than 3.25 per cent of milk 
fat. 

Most of the state laws definitely prescribe that all milk offered 
for sale shall contain not less than certain percentages of fat and 
of total solids or solids-not-fat. 

The principal state standards are shown in Table 3 : 



MILK 



67 



Table 3. State Standards for Milk 



State 



Arkansas . . . 
California . . . 
Colorado . . . 
Connecticut . . 
District of Columbia 
Florida .... 
Georgia .... 
Hawaii .... 
Idaho .... 
Illinois .... 
Indiana .... 

Iowa 

Kansas .... 
Kentucky . . . 
Louisiana . . . 
Maine .... 
Maryland . . . 
Massachusetts . . 
Michigan . . . 
Minnesota . . . 
Missouri . . . 
Montana . . . 
Nebraska . , . 
New Hampshire . 
New Jersey . . 
New York . . . 
Nevada . . . 
North CaroUna 
North Dakota . . 
Ohio ..... 
Oklahoma . . . 
Oregon .... 
Pennsylvania . . 
Porto Rico . . 
Rhode Island . . 
South Dakota . . 
Tennessee . . . 



Fat 


SOLIDS- 


Total 




NOT-FAT 


Solids 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


3.25 


8.5 




3-0 
3-0 
3-25 


8.5 


11-5 


8.5 


11-75 


3-5 


9.0 


12.5 


3-25 


8.5 


11.75 


3-25 


8.5 


11-75 


3-0 


8.5 


II-5 


3-2 


8.0 


II. 2 


3-0 


8.5 


II-5 


3.2s 


8.5 




3-0 




12.0 


3.25 


8.5 


"•75 


3.2s 


8.5 




3-5 


8.5 




3-25 


8.5 


11-75 


3-5 




12.5 


3-35 




12.1S 


3-0 




12-5 


3-25 




13.0 


3-25 


8.75 


12.0 


3-25 
3-0 


8.5 


11.75 




12.0 


3-0 




11-5 


3-0 




11-5 


3-25 


8.5 


11-75 


3.2s 


8.5 


11.75 


3-0 


9.0 


12.0 


3-0 




12.0 


3-25 


8.5 




3-2 


9.0 




3-25 




12.0 


3-0 


9.0 


12,0 


2.5 




12.0. 


3-5 


8.5 




3-5 


8.5 





68 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 3. State Standards for Milk — Continued 



State 



Utah . . 

Vermont . 

Virginia . 

Washington 

Wisconsin 

Wyoming 

Texas 



Fat 


SOLIDS- 
NOT-FAT 


Per cent 


Per cent 


3-2 


9.0 




9-25 


3-25 


8.5 


3-25 


8.75 


3-0 


8.5 


3-25 


8.5 


3.25 


8.5 



Total 
Solids 



Per cent 
12.0 
12. 5I 

11.75 
12.0 



^ During May and June, 12.0 per cent. 

It will be seen that there is considerable diversity of standards 
among the states. Since the fat content of milk is so variable 
some difference of opinion as to the proper legal minimum of 
fat is readily understood, but there is no justification in the 
natural composition of milk for setting a low standard for fat 
and at the same time a high standard for solids-not-fat, or 
total solids as is still done in several states. The explanation for 
such disproportionate standards is to be found in the fact that 
methods of milk analysis formerly used tended to underestimate 
the fat and overestimate the other solids. 

The Commission on Milk Standards appointed with a view 
to securing uniformity of requirements among the different 
states and cities of the United States has recommended the 
general adoption of the standard calling for not less than 3.25 
per cent of milk fat and not less than 8.5 per cent of milk 
solids-not-fat as proposed by the Association of Official Agricul- 
tural Chemists. 

The Commission also recommended the adoption by communi- 
ties of regulations providing for the sale of milk on a basis of 
guaranteed composition. The advantage of such a system is 
apparent from the fact that any single legal minimum must 



MILK 



69 



necessarily be set considerably below the average in order to 
provide for natural variations in composition. Average milk 
and milk considerably below the average are thus equally legal, 
though of a very different value. It would obviously be fairer 
both to producer and to consumer if all milk could be sold on 
the basis of its true value. 

In addition to standards of chemical composition several com- 
munities have adopted sanitary or bacteriological standards. 
Thus milk which contains visible dirt or more than a certain 
number of bacteria may be forbidden sale, or (as in the case of 
New York City) a maximum temperature may be prescribed 
on the ground that in warm milk bacteria multiply so rapidly 
as to make it a " decomposed substance " if not an actual menace 
to health. In the past such sanitary and bacteriological stand- 
ards as have existed have varied much with the locality and 
have generally been regarded as more or less tentative. 

The Commission on Milk Standards devoted special atten- 
tion to the matter of sanitary and bacteriological standards and 
recommended the following classification of milk in which the 
definition of each class includes a statement of the maximum 
number of bacteria to be permitted and of the sanitary precau- 
tions to be prescribed. 

Classification recommended by Commission on Milk Standards 



Raw milk. Milk of this class shall come fropi cows free from disease as 
determined by tuberculin tests and physical examinations by a quahfied 
veterinarian, and shall be produced and handled by employees free from 
disease as determined by medical inspection of a quahfied physician, under 
sanitary conditions such that the bacteria count shall not exceed 100,000 
per cubic centimeter at the time of delivery to the consumer. It is recom- 
mended that dairies from which this supply is obtained shall score at least 
80 on the United States Bureau of Animal Industry score card. 

Pasteurized milk. Milk of this class shall come from cows free from disease 
as determined by physical examinations by a quahfied veterinarian and shall 



70 FOOD PRODUCTS 

be produced and handled under sanitary conditions such that the bacteria 
count at no time exceeds 200,000 per cubic centimeter. All milk of this 
class shall be pasteurized under official supervision, and the bacteria count 
shall not exceed 10,000 per cubic centimeter at the time of delivery to the 
consumer. It is recommended that dairies from which this supply is ob- 
tained should score 65 on the United States Bureau of Animal Industry 
score card. 

( Note. The above represents only the minimum standards under which 
milk may be classified in grade A. The commission recognizes, however, 
that there are grades of milk which are produced under unusually good 
conditions, in especially sanitary dairies, many of which are operated under 
the supervision of medical associations. Such milks clearly stand at the 
head of this grade.) 



Milk of this class shall come from cows free from disease as determined by 
physical examinations, of which one each year shall be by a qualified veteri- 
narian, and shall be produced and handled under sanitary conditions such 
that the bacteria count at no time exceeds 1,000,000 per cubic centimeter. 
All milk of this class shall be pasteurized under official supervision, and the 
bacteria count shall not exceed 50,000 per cubic centimeter when delivered 
to the consumer. 

It is recommended that dairies producing grade B milk should be scored 
and that the health departments or the controlling departments, whatever 
they may be, strive to bring these scores up as rapidly as possible. 



GRADE C 

Milk of this class shall come from cows free from disease as determined 
by physical examinations and shall include all milk that is produced under 
conditions such that the bacteria count is in excess of 1,000,000 per cubic 
centimeter. 

All milk of this class shall be pasteurized, or heated to a higher temperature, 
and shall contain less than 50,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter when de- 
livered to the customer. It is recommended that this njilk be used for cook- 
ing or manufacturing purposes only. 

Whenever any large city or community finds it necessary, on account of 
the length of haul or other peculiar conditions, to allow the sale of grade C 
milk, its sale shall be surrounded by safeguards such as to insure the re- 
striction of its use to cooking and manufacturing purposes. 



MILK yi 

The above recommendations have been indorsed by the 
American Public Health Association, the American Medical 
Association, and the Conference of State and Provincial Boards 
of Health of North America. 

Detailed Composition 

The fat of milk is characterized both by its.^miil ^fied form and 
by containing 5 to 7 per cent of butyrin which when split yields 
butyric acid, the volatile acid to which the odor of rancid butter 
is largely due. Smaller quantities of other volatile acids are 
also present in combination as fats. While these acids are vola- 
tile when free, the compounds (glycerides) in which they occur 
in milk and sound butter are not volatile. 

Of the three substances of which most edible fats are chiefly 
composed — palmatin, stearin, and olein — the amount of 
palmatin in milk fat is fairly large ; of stearin very small ; of 
olein there is less than in most edible fats. 

The chemical composition of the fat is more fully considered 
under butter in Chapter X. 

The proteins of milk. From three fourths to four fifths of 
the nitrogenous matter of milk consists of caseinogen (casein, 
calcium- casein), while most of the remainder is in the form of 
l actalbumi n.. 

Casein or caseinogen is the best known of the phosphoproteins. 
The chemical relationship between the caseinogen (or calcium- 
casein, or milk-casein) of normal milk and the casein of curd as 
obtained by acidulating the milk is not entirely clear. Studies 
of the composition of this protein have been made upon material 
purified by repeated precipitation. Its elementary composition 
is about as follows: carbon, 53.1 per cent; hydrogen, 7.0 
per cent; oxygen, 22.5 per cent; nitrogen, 15.8 per cent; 
sulphur, 0.8 per cent; phosphorus, 0.8 per cent. The 
amounts of amino acids which have been obtained from it by 
hydrolysis are shown in Table 4. 



72 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Lactalbumin being present in milk in so much smaller quantity 
than caseinogen has not been so extensively studied. Its prod- 
ucts of hydrolysis thus far determined are shown in Table 4. 
It will be seen that some of the amino acids probably present 
have not yet been determined ; it is also probable that further 
study will show larger quantities of many of those amino acids 
for which figures have been reported. 



Table 4. Percentages of Amino Acids from Milk Proteins 



Amino Acid 



Glycin . . 
Alanin . . 
Valin . . . 
Leucin . . 
Prolin . . 
Aspartic acid 
Glutamic acid 
Phenylalanin 
Tyrosin . . 
Serin . . 
Oxyprolin 
Histidin . . 
Arginin . . 
Lysin . , . 
Tryptophan . 
Cystin . . 
Ammonia 




Lactalbumin 



0.0 

2-5 
0.9 
19.4 
4.0 
i.o 

lO.I 

2.4 
4.9 



1-5 

8.1 
3-0 

1-3 



By comparison with the corresponding data given in later 
chapters it will be seen that the yields of several of the more 
complex amino acids such as tryptophan, tyrosin, and lysin 
are distinctly higher from the milk proteins than from food pro- 
teins in general ; while the amino acids lacking or present only 
in small quantity in milk proteins are those of which the body 

^ In general the highest yield of each amino acid is given since it is known that the 
methods used tend to give results below the truth. 



MILK 72 

may readily derive abundant supplies from other sources. (See 
also the sections on nutritive value and place in the diet in this 
and succeeding chapters.) 

The ash constituents of milk include all of the so-called inor- 
ganic elements necessary to the normal nutrition of man. Some 
of these exist in the milk as salts, some as constituents of the 
organic matter, some in both forms. 

Sulphur, of which milk contains about 0.03 per cent, exists 
almost entirely as a constituent of the milk proteins. 

Phosphorus constitutes about o.io per cent of the fresh weight 
of milk (equivalent to 0.23 per cent phosphoric acid) and is 
present in at least four forms. About 65 per cent of the phos- 
phorus of milk is in the form of phosphate in the sense that it 
is precipitable by phosphate reagents, but to what extent this 
is free phosphate and to what extent loosely combined with 
organic matter has not been determined; about 25 per cent 
exists as an essential organic constituent of the casein (the latter 
containing 0.8 to 0.9 per cent of phosphorus after having been 
purified by dissolving and reprecipitating until ash-free) ; about 
3 per cent is in the form of lecithin ; and about 7 per cent is in 
the form of organic compounds of other types (including the 
so-called " nucleon " of Siegfeld). 

Chlorine exists in milk in the form of sodium chloride, possibly 
in part also as potassium chloride. 

The base-forming elements, sodium, potassium, calcium, and 
magnesium, are present in milk in slightly greater amounts than 
would be necessary to neutralize the acids obtainable from the 
sulphur, phosphorus, and chlorine present, and in distinct excess 
over what would be required to combine with the ready-formed 
acid radicles. This excess of base is combined in part with the 
casein and in part with citric acid, a small quantity of which is 
a normal constituent of milk and is counted with the carbohy- 
drates in the usual proximate analysis. The percentages of 
these elements, calculated as oxides, in average cows' milk are 



74 FOOD PRODUCTS 

as follows: calcium oxide, 0.168 per cent; magnesium oxide, 
0.019 per cent; potassium oxide, 0.171 per cent; sodium oxide, 
0.068 per cent. 

Noticeable here are the high calcium content as compared 
with other foods and the richness of milk in calcium and potas- 
sium as compared with magnesium and sodium. In these re- 
spects the composition of milk ash resembles that of the ash of 
the animal body. 

The iron of milk is small in amount (0.00024 per cent) but of 
high food value. It will be considered in the section on the 
nutritive value of milk and the place of milk in the diet. 

Milk sugar and minor constituents. Milk sugar (lactose) 
is the only known carbohydrate of milk. The small amount of 
citric acid already mentioned as occurring in milk is usually 
counted with the milk sugar as carbohydrate. 

Summary of constituents. The following tabular summary 
(p. 75) is added in order that the constituents already men- 
tioned may not be understood to be the only substances 
which milk contains. Readers who wish further information 
regarding substances which can be merely mentioned here are 
referred to the books and journal articles listed at the end of 
the chapter. 

Nutritive Value and Place in the Diet 

Average milk with 4 per cent fat furnishes about 314 Calories 
per pound or 675 Calories per quart. Milk naturally so poor 
as to contain only 3 per cent fat would furnish 268 Calories per 
pound; natural milk with 5 per cent fat would furnish 360, 
and that with 6 per cent fat, 407 Calories per pound. In any 
of these cases from 18 to 20 per cent of the Calories would be fur- 
nished by protein. 

The quantitative relations between protein content and fat 
content or fuel value are readily altered by separating the " top 
milk " or cream from the " skim milk." 'Milk skimmed so as 



MILK 



15 



Constituents of Milk 



Glycerides of 
volatile 
acids 

Glycerides of 
non-volatile 
acids 



Proteins 

Caseinogen 

Lactalbumin 

Lactoglobulin 

Fibrinogen 
Amino acids 
Vitamines 
Enzymes 
Fats 

Butyrin 

Caproin 

Caprylin 

Caprin 

Laurin 

Myristin 

Palmitin 

Stearin 

Olein 
Lipoids (fatlike substances) 

Lecithin 

Cholesterin 

Probably other lipoids 
Carotin (lipochrome) 

Milk Sugar 

Citric acid 

Ash Constituents 

Sulphur 

Phosphorus (calc. as P2O5) 

Chlorine 

Sodium (calc. as Na20) 

Potassium (calc. as K2O) 

Calcium (calc. as CaO) 

Magnesium (calc. as MgO) 

Iron 

Iodine 
Water 



Per cent 
• 3.3 



4.0 



4.8 
0.1 



0.7 



87.1 
lOC.O 



76 FOOD PRODUCTS 

to contain only i per cent fat would yield about 200 Calories 
per pound and protein would furnish approximately one third 
of the Calories; while a thin cream obtained from the same 
milk and containing 10 per cent fat would yield about 550 Cal- 
ories per pound, of which only one tenth of the Calories would 
be furnished by protein. 

Even from the standpoint of gross proximate composition 
and fuel value, milk is a fairly economical food, especially when 
compared with other foods of animal origin, a quart of milk 
being approximately equivalent to a pound of steak ' or to eight 
or nine eggs. 

Such a comparison, however, fails to do justice to the true 
nutritive value of milk, which is largely due to the peculiar nature 
of its constituents. 

The carbohydrate of milk (lactose) is already in solution and 
like other sugars does not require the action of the salivary 
or pancreatic juice, but only of the intestinal juice, for its diges- 
tion. It has the advantage over sucrose and glucose of being 
•less _suscepti_bk_Jx) .fermentation^aadigss liable to irritate the 
stomach. "^ ' 

The fat of milk is already emulsified and so is more readily 
available to the body than the fats of other common foods except 
eggs. The fact that milk fat is fluid at body temperature also 
aids its digestibility. Whether the presence of glycerides of 
the volatile acids is of any special advantage aside from flavor 
is not clear. 

The proteins of milk are of high nutritive value. When 

^ That the standard tables of analyses give an exaggerated impression of the fuel 
value of meats, especially beef, is explained in Chapter VI preceding Table 12. In 
that table it will be seen that sirloin steak as purchased is given a fuel value of 960 
Calories per pound, but this includes all the fat originally belonging with the cut, 
and two thirds of the Calories come from the fat. If, as is often the case, the 
butcher and consumer remove one half or more of the fat originally present, then the 
steak as actually eaten furnishes not over 640 Calories for each pound of material 
purchased. 



MILK 



77 



ini'k IS taken under normal conditions (even in relatively large 
quantity and in connection with only a small amount of bread 
or other soUd food), about 97 to 98 per cent of the milk protein 
is digested and absorbed. Numerous recent digestion and me- 
tabolism experiments indicate that under normal conditions it 
is as completely digested and absorbed as any of the food pro- 
teins, and has the advantage of not containing the substances 
which vie ld uric acid in the body, nor being readily susceptible 
to intestinal putrefaction. 

Not only do the milk proteins show a high coefficient of diges- 
tibility, but metabolism experiments and clinical observations 
show that milk furnishes a form of protein food particularly 
adapted to bring about a storage of protein in the body. This 
may be due in part to the fact that casein contains phosphorus 
as an essential constituent, since Rosemann has shown that 
storage of both nitrogen and phosphorus is more readily ob- 
tained with a diet of phosphoproteins than with mixtures of 
simple proteins and inorganic phosphates, but it is doubtless 
more largely due to the amino-acids content of the milk proteins. 

If the data on page 72 be compared with the corresponding 
data for proteins of other foods as given in later chapters, 
(Tables 9, 18, 26, 7,8, 41, 44), it will be seen that the milk pro- 
teins are relatively rich in the amino-acid radicles of more com- 
plex structure, which apparently are not readily formed in the 
body, and especially tryptophan and lysin, which are known to 
play an especially important part in nutrition and growth. 
The ash constituents of milk are important not only for their 
property of being adequate in the absence of all other ash 
constituents, as in the experiments just cited, but also in their 
bearing upon the adequacy of the phosphorus, calcium, and iron 
supply in a mixed diet. 

Phosphorus compounds are present in milk in relative abun- 
dance and in a variety of forms, as was shown in the discussion 
of the chemical composition of milk (page 73). 



78 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Calcium is present in still greater relative abundance. Milk 
contains slightly more calcium, volume for volume, than does 
limewater. As a rule the calcium content of the diet depends 
mainly upon the amount of milk consumed. In family dietaries 
where ordinary quantities of milk are used, the milk is apt to 
furnish about two thirds of the total calcium of the diet. With- 
out milk it is unlikely that the diet will be as rich in calcium as 
is desirable either for the child or for the adult. 

Iron is present in milk in only small quantity, but evidently 
in a form exceptionally favorable for assimilation. Notwith- 
standing the low iron content, a diet of milk and white bread ^ 
appears to be adequate for the maintenance of iron equilibrium 
in man, whereas white bread alone in larger quantity or a diet 
of bread and iron-free protein is much less efficient. 

So far as our present knowledge indicates, this favorable influ- 
ence of milk upon the iron metabolism in spite of the small 
amount of iron which it contains would seem to be due in part 
to the particular organic form of combination in which the iron 
is present and in part to the fact that it is associated with a large 
amount of calcium which in some way appears to be favorable 
to the economy of iron in the organism.^ 

Recent research makes it plain that milk contains substances 
other than the known proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and salts 
which perform important nutritive functions especially in rela- 
tion to growth. Osborne and Mendel in their feeding experi- 
ments with isolated foodstuffs found that when the fats and 
proteins are removed from milk the residue is more efficient in 
nutrition than is a mixture of milk sugar and salts. Still more 
recently it has been found both by McCuUom and Davis and by 
Osborne and Mendel that milk (or butter) contains a fatlike 
(or fat-soluble) substance, whose presence or absence in an 
otherwise adequate diet determines the continuance or cessation 

1 For discussion of the iron content of milk in relation to infant feeding see 
Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, Chapter IX, pages 253-255. 



MILK 



79 



of growth in young animals. Hopkins showed that even small 
amounts of milk exert a very marked influence upon the growth 
of young animals kept on a diet of artificially " purified " food 
materials. Some of Hopkins' results are shown in the accom- 
panying cuts. Figure 4 shows the growth curves of rats with 
and without a small 
amount of milk when 
the rest of the diet 
was of artificially puri- 
fied food. Figure 5 
shows the results of 
a similar experiment 
in which on the i8th 
day the milk was 
transferred from one 
set of rats to the 
other. Note in both 
cases the failure of 
growth on the diet 
of artificially purified 
foodstuffs alone and 
the rapid growth when 
a small amount of 
milk was fed. 

Taking into con- 
sideration the many 
and important factors 
which increase the 
value of milk as food, 
above that indicated 
by its mere proximate composition and fuel value, and also the 
fact that it requires no preparation and has no waste, it is .be- 
lieved to be true economy to make liberal use of milk in the diet 
so long as the milk does not cost more than twice as much in 




30 


Fig. 4 



^0 

Growth curves of rats. Lower curve six 
rats on artificial diet alone. Upper curve six 
similar rats receiving in addition 2 cc. of milk 
each per day. Abscissas time in days; ordi- 
nates average weight in grams. 
Dr. F, Gowland Hopkins.) 



(Courtesy of 



8o 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



proportion to the energy it furnishes as the average of the food 
eaten. On this basis families who must live on as little as 1 6 to 
20 cents per person per day for food may wisely use reasonable 
quantities of milk at 8 to 10 cents per quart, balancing this by 
a larger use of such food as bread, which furnishes energy much 



90 



bO 



AO 



I i 



2S 



^0 



Fig. 5. — Growth curves of rats. Lower curve (up to i8th day) represents rats 
on purified food ; upper curve similar rats having 3 cc. milk each per day in 
addition to this food. On the i8th day, marked by the vertical dotted line, 
the milk was transferred from one set to the other. Abscissae time in days ; 
ordinates average weight in grams. (Courtesy of Dr. F. Gowland Hopkins.) 



more cheaply than the average food of the diet. Those who are 
able to spend 30 to 40 cents per person per day for food are 
practicing true economy when they buy and use liberally the 
best milk obtainable even at a price of 15 to 20 cents per quart. 



MILK 8 1 

Especially in the feeding of children should milk be used 
freely, because of its many advantages as a " tissue-building " 
and " growth-promoting " food. " A quart of milk a day for 
every child " is a good rule easy to remember. 

In no other way can the food habits now prevailing, especially 
in the cities, be so certainly and economically improved as by 
a more liberal use of good milk. 

REFERENCES! 
I 

Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

EcKLES.' Dairy Cattle and Milk Production. 

Farrington and Woll. Testing Milk and its Products. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Richmond. Dairy Chemistry. 

Rosenau. Milk in Its Relation to the Public Health. United States Public 
Health Service, Hygienic Laboratory, Bulletin 56. 

Rosenau. The Milk Question. 

Rothschild. Bibliographia Lactaria. 

Savage. Milk and the Public Health. 

Sherman. Methods of Organic Analysis. 

Sommereeld. Handbuch der Milchkunde. 

Stohmann. Milch und Molkerei-produkte. 

Swithinbank and Neumann. Bacteriology of Milk. 

Van Slyke. Modern Methods of Testing Milk and Milk Products. 

Wing. Milk and its Products. 

II 

Alvord. Breeds of Dairy Cattle, United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Animal Industry, 15th Annual Report, pages 137-200 (1899). 

Pearson. Market Milk : A Plan for its Improvement. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Reprint from 17th 
Annual Report (1901). 
1 The first group (I) contains books (and a few of the more comprehensive 

bulletins) arranged alphabetically by authors. The second group (II) contains con- 
tributions to scientific journals and other periodicals, reports, bulletins, etc., ar- 
ranged chronologically. Similar lists will be found at the end of each of the chapters 

which follow. 
G 



82 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Alvord. Statistics of the Dairy. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Bulletin 55 (1903). 

Sherman. On the Composition of Cows' Milk. Journal of the American 
Chemical Society, Vol. 25, pages 132-142 (1903). 

Conn and Esten. The Effect of Different Temperatures in Determining 
the Species of Bacteria which Grow in Milk. Sixteenth Annual Report 
of the Storrs (Conn.) Agricultural Experiment Station, pages 27-88 
(1904). 

Jordan. Analyses of Chicago Market Milk — A Report by the Health 
and Sanitation Committee of the Civic Federation of Chicago, July, 
1904. 

Marshall and Wright. The Care and Handling of Milk. Michigan 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 221, 2 parts (1905). 

Pennington and McClintoch. A Preliminary Report on the Pasteurized 
and Clean Milk of Philadelphia. American Journal of the Medical 
Sciences, Vol. 130, pages 140-150 (1905). 

Frear. American Milk and Milk Standards. Proceedings of the Associa- 
tion of State and National Food and Dairy Departments, loth Annual 
Convention, pages 172-194 (1906). 

Pearson. Facts about Milk. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Farmers' Bulletin 42 (1906). 

Sherman. Seasonal Variations in the Composition of Cows' Milk. Journal 
of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 28, pages 1719-1723 (1906). 

Sanitary Milk Production. Report of a Conference appointed by the 
Commissioners of the District of Columbia. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 114 
(1907). 

CoiT. The Origin, General Plan, and Scope of the Medical Milk Commis- 
sion. Proceedings of the American Association of Medical Milk Com- 
missions, Vol. I, pages 10-17 (1908). 

Haecker. Investigation in Milk Production. Minnesota Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 106, pages 147-169 (1908). 

Kastle. On the Available Alkali in the Ash of Human and Cows' Milk and 
its Relation to Infant Nutrition. American Journal of Physiology, 
Vol. 22, pages 284-308 (1908). 

Pennington. Bacterial Growth and Chemical Changes in Milk kept at 
Low Temperatures. Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 4, pages 

353-393 (1908)- 
Van Slyke. Conditions affecting the Proportions of Fat and Proteins in 
Cows' Milk. Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 30, 
pages II 66-1 1 86 (1908). 



MILK 83 

CoLWELL and Sherman. Chemical Evidence of Peptonization in Raw and 
Pasteurized Milk. Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 5, pages 247- 
251 (1909). 

American Public Health Association. Standard Methods for the Bacterial 
Examination of Milk. American Journal of Public Hygiene, August, 
1910. Also available in reprint form. 

Harding, Wilson, and Smith. The Modern Milk Pail. New York State 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 326 (1910). 

Kerr. The History, Development, and Statistics of Milk Charities in the 
United States. United States Public Health Service, Public Health 
Reports, Vol. 25, pages 1451-1467 (1910). 

Lane and Parks. Improved Methods for the Production of Market Milk 
by Ordinary Dairies. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 158 (1910). 

Proceedings, Conference on Milk Problems held in New York City, December, 
1910. Published by the New York Milk Committee (1910-1911). 

Ayers and Johnson. Bacteriology of Commercially Pasteurized and Raw 
Market Milk. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 
Animal Industry, Bulletin 126 (191 1). 

EcKLES and Reed. Causes of Variation in Milk Production by Dairy Cows. 
Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station, Research Bulletin 2 (191 1). 

Fingerling. Influence of Food Poor in Calcium and Phosphorus upon 
Milk Production. Landwirtschafthches Versuchs-Stationen, Vol. 75, 
pages 1-152 (1911). 

Harding. Publicity and Payment based on Quality as Factors in improv- 
ing a City Milk Supply. New York State Agricultural Experiment 
Station, Bulletin 337 (191 1). 

Koehler and Tonney. The Control of Pasteurization. Journal of the 
American Medical Association, Vol. 56, pages 713-718 (191 1). 

Lindsey. Influence of Protein Feeding on Milk Production. Massachu- 
setts Agricultural Experiment Station, Report 23, Part 3, pages 86-121 
(1911). 

Luxwolda. Growth and Action of Certain Milk Bacteria at Different 
Temperatures. Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde, 
II Abth., Vol. 31, pages 129-175 (191 1). 

MiLNER. The Use of Milk as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 363 (1911). 

New York Milk Committee. Completion of a Successful Practical Experi- 
ment in Milk Production. 5th Annual Report, pages 25-30 (191 1). 

North. Pasteurization of Milk in the • Bottle on a Commercial Scale. 
Medical Record, July 15, 191 1. 



84 FOOD PRODUCTS 

ScHOLBERG and Wallis. Chemical Changes produced in Milk by Bacteria 
and Their Relation to the Epidemic Diarrhoea of Infants. Local 
Governments Board's Medical Officers' Report, 191 1, pages 504-543 
(1911). 

Whitaker. The Extra Cost of Producing Clean Milk. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 170 
(1911). 

Ayers. The Pasteurization of Milk. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 184 (191 2), 

Hopkins. Influence of Accessory Constituents of Diet upon Growth. 
Journal of Physiology, Vol. 44, pages 425-460 (191 2). 

Jordan. The Case for Pasteurization. Journal of the American Medical 
Association, Vol. 59, pages 1450-1457 (191 2). 

New York Milk Committee. Infant Mortality and Milk Stations, Special 
Report (191 2). 

Report of the Commission on Milk Standards. United States Public Health 
Service, Public Health Reports, Reprint No. 78 (191 2). 

Rogers. Bacteria in Milk. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Farmers' Bulletin 490 (191 2). 

Rogers and Davis. Methods of Classifying the Lactic Acid Bacteria. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Bulletin 154 (191 2). 

Rogers. Directions for the Home Pasteurization of Milk. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 197 
(1912). 

ScHORER. Experimental Studies on Milk, with Especial Reference to the 
Uniformity of Different Grades of Milk and the Effects of Storage upon 
Certified, Inspected, and Pasteurized Milks. Journal of Infectious 
Diseases, Vol. 11, pages 295-337 (191 2). 

Ayers and Johnson. A Study of the Bacteria which Survive Pasteuriza- 
tion. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, Bulletin 161 (1913). 

EcKLES and Shaw. Influence of Breed and Individuality and the Stage of 
Lactation, upon the Composition and Properties of Milk. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Bulle- 
tins 155, 156, 157 (1913). 

Hopkins and Neville, Note concerning the Influence of Diets upon 
Growth. Biochemical Journal, Vol. 7, pages 97-99 (1913). 

Funk. An Attempt to Estimate the Vitamine-Fraction in Milk. Bio- 
chemical Journal, Vol. 7, pages 211-213 (1913). 

Lythgoe. Quality of the Massachusetts Milk Supply as shown by the In- 



MILK 85 

spection of the State Board of Health. Journal of Industrial and En- 
gineering Chemistry, Vol. 5, pages 922-927 (1913). 
ScHRYVER. On the Clotting of Milk. Proceedings of the Royal Society, 

London, Series B, Vol. 86, pages 460-481 (1913). 
United States Public Health Service. Second Report of Commission on 

Milk Standards. Public Health Reports, Vol. 38, pages 1 733-1 756 

(August 22, 1913). 
Wing. Milking Machines : Their Sterilization and their Efficiency in 

Producing Clean Milk. Cornell Experiment Station, Circular 18, 

pages 65-74 (1913). 
BowEN. The Cost of Pasteurizing Milk and Cream. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Bulletin 85 (191 4). 
KuDLiCH and Sachs. Biological Reactions of Raw and Cooked Milk. 

Zeitschrift fiir Immunitatsforschung und experimentelle Therapie, 

Vol. 20, pages 317-335 (1914)- 
Palmer and Eckles. Carotin, the Principal Natural Yellow Pigment of 

Milk Fat. Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 17, pages 191-250 

(1914). 
Palmer and Coolidge. Lactochrome, the Yellow Pigment of Milk Whey. 

Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 17, pages 251-264 (1914)- 
Schroeder. Dirt Sediment Testing — A Factor in Obtaining Clean Milk. 

American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 4, pages 50-64 (1914)- 
Tillmanns, Splittgerber and Riffert. Determination and Significance 

of the Ammonia Content of Milk. Zeitschrift fur Untersuchung der 

Nahrungs und Genussmittel, Vol. 27, pages 59-76 (1914)- 



CHAPTER IV 
CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 

Cheese 

Cheese was probably the first product manufactured from 
milk and the first form in which milk was preserved for future 
use. 

It has for centuries been an important article of diet in many 
countries, and is made in a great variety of forms. A recent 
compilation by Doane and Lawson describes no less than 350 
varieties of cheese. 

Until the middle of the last century the making of cheese 
was a household or farm industry. The first cheese factory was 
started by Jesse Williams, a farmer of Oneida County, New 
York, who, finding that his cheese sold readily at more than the 
average price, began in 185 1 to buy the milk of his neighbors 
and manufacture cheese from it as well as from the milk pro- 
duced on his own farm. Within fifteen years his example had 
been followed to such an extent that there were about five 
hundred cheese factories in New York State alone. 

It is estimated that in 1850 there was made in the United 
States about 100,000,000 pounds of cheese, all of it on farms 
or in the household ; in 1900, about 300,000,000 pounds, of which 
96 to 97 per cent was made in factories. 

The census of manufactures of 1909 (which of course would 
not include the cheese made on farms) estimates the production 
for the United States at about 311,000,000 pounds worth at 
wholesale at the factory $43,000,000. The amount of cheese 

86 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 87 




88 FOOD PRODUCTS 

imported exceeded that exported by about 29,000,000 pounds. 
The cheese consumption in this country was therefore about 
3 1 to 4 pounds per person per year, a low figure in 
comparison with the amounts of meat and butter consumed. 
During the past few years the United States Department 
of Agriculture has given considerable attention to the cheese 
industry and to the use of cheese as a food, and it is probable 
that this will result in a larger per capita consumption of cheese 
for the country as a whole. 

Cheese is roughly divided into two main types : the hard 
cheeses such as Cheddar, Edam, Emmental (or Swiss), Par- 
mesan and Roquefort; and the soft cheeses such as Brie, 
Camembert, Gorgonzola, Limburg, Neufchatel, and Stilton. 

Much the largest part of the cheese made in this country is 
of the type of the Cheddar cheese and is therefore properly 
known as American Cheddar cheese, although frequently called 
simply " American cheese " or, in the trade, " standard factory 
cheese." In addition to this standard type of cheese smaller 
quantities of other types are made. Some New York factories 
make cheeses of the Brie, Camembert, and Neufchatel types, 
while cheeses of the Swiss and of the Limburg types are made 
in Wisconsin. 

The principal importations of cheese into the United States 
are of Jarmesan and Gorgonzola cheese from Italy ; Emmental 
cheese from Switzerland ; Roquefort, Caniembert, . and Brie, 
from France; and Edam cheese from Holland. Many other 
varieties are imported in small amounts. Since these cheeses 
are imported largely as delicacies, they are more costly than 
standard American cheese. 

The chief cheese-producing states are New York and Wiscon- 
sin, the main cheesemaking centers very nearly coinciding with 
the regions having greatest numbers of dairy cows as shown on 
the accompanying map (Fig. 6). 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 89 

Manufacture of American Cheddar Cheese 

This process is divided into several fairly distinct steps as 
follows : (i) inspection of milk, (2) ripening of milk, (3) addition 
of color — when color is used, (4) coagulating the milk, (5) cut- 
ting the curd, (6) stirring and heating the curd, (7) removing 
whey, (8) cheddaring the curd, (9) milling the curd, (10) salting 
and pressing the curd, (11) ripening or curing the cheese. 

Inspection of milk. Each can of milk received for cheesemak- 
ing should be examined for acidity, dirt, and abnormal flavors 
(odor or taste) . Sometimes a rapid examination by the senses 
of sight and smell is deemed sufficient; sometimes a roughly 
quantitative determination of the acidity is made. When the 
cheesemaker is troubled with abnormal fermentation or defec- 
tive curd, it may be necessary for him to make a test of each 
farmer's milk to determine the nature of the fermentation which 
it shows and of the curd which it yields, in order that the par- 
ticular milk which is responsible for the trouble may be located 
and excluded. 

Ripening of milk. This consists in keeping the milk at about 
86° F. (30° C.) until the desired amount of lactic acid has formed. 
" Starters," consisting of commercial cultures of lactic add bac- 
teria or of milk in active lactic acid fermentation, are sometimes 
added to facilitate the ripening process. The lactic acid is 
important in its influence on the operations of cheesemaking 
and its presence also tends to repress abnormal fermentations. 
The proper degree of ripeness is judged either by ti^trating for 
-acidity or by testing a portion of the milk with rennet to see 
whether it coagulates as readily as is desired. Acidity equiva- 
lent to 0.20 per cent of lactic acid usually marks the completion 
of the ripening process. 

Addition of color. When coloring matter is used in cheese- 
making, it should be added to the ripened milk just before 
coagulating it with rennet. 



go FOOD PRODUCTS 

^ Coagulating the milk. Rennet is the most useful reagent for 
the precipitation of the curd, that prepared from the calves' 
stomachs being most highly prized for cheesemaking. Rennet 
is now prepared on a large scale and is purchased from the 
makers for use in the cheese industry. The quality of the rennet 
is very important, as an inferior grade gives a bad taste to the 
cheese. The amount of rennet to be added depends, of course, 
upon the strength of the preparation, but should be sufficient 
so that when mixed with the milk and kept at 84°-86° F. the 
milk will be curdled in 15 to 20 minutes if it is to be used for 
a quick-curing cheese, and in 30 to 40 minutes for a slow-curing 
cheese. The rennet extracts commonly used are added in the 
proportion of from 2 to 5 ounces per 1000 pounds of milk. Be- 
fore adding, the extract should be diluted with 40 times its 
volume of water at a temperature of 85-90° F. so as to prevent 
the production of a lumpy curd. Previous to adding the rennet 
the milk is thoroughly stirred in order to distribute the fat evenly, 
and the rennet is added evenly and slowly with constant stirring, 
which is continued for several minutes. After this, the milk is 
stirred gently near the surface to prevent separation of cream. 
All stirring is stopped as soon as (or before) coagulation begins, 
and the milk is then left covered and undisturbed while the coag- 
ulation gradually continues until the whole mass forms one 
coherent curd and is ready for cutting. 

b Cutting the curd. In order that the whey may be separated 
it is necessary that the curd be cut into pieces ; the smaller the 
pieces of curd, the more rapidly will the whey escape. As soon 
as the curd is formed it tends to contract and force out a portion 
of the whey. By cutting the curd the surface from which the 
whey can exude is increased and so the separation of the whey 
from the curd goes on much more rapidly. The time for cutting 
the curd is important and is determined by the skill and experi- 
ence of the cheesemaker. If the curd is cut when it is too soft, 
there may be a large loss of fat, with a resulting decrease in the 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 91 

yield and quality of the cheese. If the curd is allowed to be- 
come too hard before cutting, the whey is removed with greater 
difficulty ; and if incompletely removed, a cheese of low quality 
results. The cutting is accomplished by drawing specially 
devised cutting knives through the mass of curd, both horizon- 
tally and vertically, so as to cut it into cubes of one quarter to 
one half inch size. 

^ Stirring and heating the curd. As soon as the curd is cut, the 
whey begins to separate, and the mass of cut curd is then kept in 
gentle motion by stirring, taking care to avoid breaking the 
cubes. This results in the separation of a clear whey, free from 
fat or small particles of curd. The curd contracts and hardens 
during this process and soon reaches a condition in which the 
surfaces do not readily adhere. During this process of separa- 
tion of the whey, the temperature is raised to about 90° F. and 
finally toward the last to about 98° F. 

o' Removing the whey. The precipitated curd is left in contact 
with the whey for some time, during which time there is some 
action of the acid of the whey upon the protein of the curd, which 
is allowed to continue until a small mass of the curd, which has 
been squeezed in the hand to remove the whey and then pressed 
against a bar of iron heated a little below redness, will leave 
adhering to the iron fine, silky threads, the length of which indi- 
cates roughly the extent to which the desired combination of 
acid and protein has taken place. Usually the curd is separated 
when the hot iron test shows strings about one eighth of an inch 
long ; but other tests are also used to aid in judging when the 
whey should be removed. The whey is run off gradually while 
the stirring of the curd is continued. 

Cheddaring the curd. Most of the whey having run off, the 
cubes of curd are left piled in the bottom of the vat until they 
mat or pack together, which process is technically known as 
'' cheddaring." Sometimes the " cheddaring " is accomplished 
in a special apparatus called the '' curd sink." When the ched- 



92 FOOD PRODUCTS 

daring of the curd is complete, it is cut into blocks, 6 to 1 2 inches 
in each dimension, which are turned in the vat in order to facili- 
tate the further removal of whey, and are then carefully placed, 
one over the other, until they form a large mass. The process 
of solidifying or " cheddaring " has two results : first, the 
more complete removal of the whey, and second, the formation 
of a characteristic texture in the curd which becomes less rubber- 
like and more velvety and forms strings of an inch or more in 
length when tested with the hot iron. During the cheddaring 
a considerable increase of acidity occurs, the last of the whey 
which drains from the piled curd showing usually an acidity equal 
to 0.6 to 0.9 per cent of lactic acid. 

^ Milling the curd. The milling process consists in cutting the 
lumps of curd into small pieces of uniform size in order that it 
may be salted more evenly and handled more readily when it is 
placed in hoops for pressing. This is done by means of curd- 
mills designed to avoid as far as possible the loss of fat which 
would result from crushing or squeezing the curd. 
/^Salting and pressing. Salt is added chiefly for flavoring, 
but also it aids in removing the whey, it hardens the curd, it 
checks the further formation of lactic acid, and it helps to pre- 
vent the development of undesirable fermentation. Excessive 
salting is, however, injurious. Usually from i to 3 pounds of 
salt are added to the curd obtained from 1000 pounds of milk. 
After filling the curd into the mold it is pressed in the proper 
form by a uniform pressure which is continued for 24 to 48 hours. 
Usually a light pressure is applied at first and gradually increased 
during about an hour, when the cheese is removed, trimmed, 
turned, wrapped in cloth, and replaced for the final pressing. 
. Ripening or curing the cheese. When taken from the press 
cheese is said to be unripe, green, or uncured. It must be stored 
for weeks or months to become properly ripened. The higher 
the temperature to which cheese is exposed in ripening, the more 
rapid the process will be, but this is attained usually at the 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 93 

expense of the quality of the cheese. For the best results, the 
ripening is conducted at a temperature not above 55° F. and 
requires a comparatively long time. During the ripening the 
cheese undergoes some loss of weight by evaporation of moisture, 
but the chief object of the ripening process is to secure certain 
changes in texture and flavor which depend essentially upon a 
gradual hydrolysis of the cheese protein, the changes being 
very similar to those which take place in digestion. 

The increase of soluble proteins, and of the products of further 
cleavage, which takes place at the expense of the insoluble pro- 
tein of the original curd, is shown in Table 5, which is condensed 
from data given by Van Slyke and Publow.^ 

Table 5. Showing Development of Protein Cleavage Products in 

Cheese 



Age of 
Cheese 


Nitrogen, Expressed as Percentage of the Total Nitrogen of the 
Cheese, in the Form of : 


Soluble Pro- 
teins and De- 
rivatives 


Proteoses 


Peptones 


Amino Acids 


Ammonia 


Months 

3 
6 

9 
12 
18 


Per cent 

21. AAr 

30.98 
36.15 
43-45 
44.75 
47.25 


Per cent 

3-15 
4-56 
4.92 

4-59 
4.16 
3-88 


Per cent 
3.84 
4-65 
4.22 

3.56 
3-95 

2.57 


Per cent 

9.88 

14.36 

19.96 

26.53 
28.38 
30.46 


Per cent 
1.56 
2.45 
352 
4.74 
S.41 
6.62 



The changes which take place in the cheese protein during the 
ripening process are doubtless due to a combination of factors. 
Van Slyke holds that (i) the lactic acid, (2) the rennet enzyme, 
(3) the milk enzyme (galactase), (4) microorganisms, chiefly 
bacteria, all play important parts in the ripening process. ' The 

1 The Science and Prentice of Cheesemaking, page 337- 



94 FOOD PRODUCTS 

exact part played by each of these factors is still a subject of 
investigation. 

Other Varieties of Cheese 

Since about three fourths of all the cheese used in the United 
States is of the Cheddar type, only that type can be considered 
at all fully here. The following statements regarding a few other 
varieties of cheese are abbreviated from the descriptions given 
by Doane and Lawson.^ 

Brie. This is a soft rennet cheese made from cows' milk. 
The cheese varies in size and also in quality, depending on 
whether whole or partly skimmed milk is used. The method of 
manufacture closely resembles that of Camembert. 

This cheese has been made in France for several centuries. 
Mention was made of it as early as 1407. It is made through- 
out France, but more extensively in the Department of Seine et 
Marne, in which it doubtless originated. More or less success- 
ful imitations of this cheese are made in other countries. It was 
estimated that 7,000,000 pounds of Brie cheese were sold in 
Paris during 1900. The export trade is also very important. 

Camembert. This is a soft rennet cheese made from cows' 
milk. A typical cheese is about 4I inches in diameter and i| 
inches thick and is usually found on the market in this country 
wrapped in paper and inclosed in a wooden box of the same shape. 
The cheese usually has a rind about one eighth of an inch in 
thickness which is com posed of molds an d dried cheese. The 
interior is yellowishjiixalor, and W-aixy, creamy, or almost -fluidr- 
in consistency, depending largely upon the degree of ripeness. 

Camembert cheese is said to have originated in 179 1 in the 
locality from which it derives its name in the Department of 
Orne, in the northwestern part of France. The industry ex- 
tended soon into Calvados, and these two departments are 

1 Varieties of Cheese : Descriptions and Analyses, United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Bulletin 105. 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 95 

still the principal seat of the industry. Very successful cheeses 
of this type have been made at the Storrs Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station in Connecticut. 

Cheshire. This cheese is one of the oldest and most popular 
of the English varieties. It is a rennet cheese made from un- 
skimmed cows' milk, and is named for Chester County, Eng- 
land, where it is largely produced. It is made in cylindrical 
shape from 14 to 16 inches in diameter, and weighs 50 to 70 
pounds. In making this cheese sufficient annatto is used to 
give the product a very high color. 

Cheshire-Stilton. This is a combination of the Cheshire and 
Stilton varieties of cheese in which the general characteristics 
of size and shape and manufacture of the Cheshire are retained, 
and a growth of the mold peculiar to Stilton is secured. The 
mold is propagated by keeping out each day a portion of curd 
and mixing it with some older curd in which the mold is 
growing well. 

Edam. This is a hard rennet cheese produced in Holland ; it 
is also known as Katzenkopf, Tete de Maure, and Manbollen. 
The best of the product is made of unskimmed cows' milk, but 
much of it at the present time is made from milk which has had 
at least one half of the fat removed. The cheeses are round 
and are colored deep red on the surface or wrapped in tin foil. 

When the cheese is one month old it is washed in water at 
70° F. for twenty minutes and then placed in the sun to dry, after 
which it is rubbed with linseed oil. Before shipping the cheese 
is colored, usually red, but for some markets it is colored yellow 
with annatto. This coloring is done with a watery solution of 
litmus and Berlin red, or with carmine. A considerable quantity 
of this cheese is imported into the United States. At the present 
time some Edam cheeses are inclosed in air-tight tins for export. 

Emmental. This is a hard rennet cheese made from un- 
skimmed cows' milk, and has a mild, somewhat sweetish flavor. 
It is characterized by holes or eyes which develop to about the 



96 FOOD PRODUCTS 

size of a half inch in typical cheeses and are situated from i to 3 
inches apart. Cheese of the same kind made in the United 
States is known as Domestic Swiss, and that made in the region 
of Lake Constance is called Algau Emmental. 

Emmental cheese is a very old variety. In the middle of the 
fifteenth century a cheese probably of this type was manufac- 
tured in the Canton of Emmental. In the middle of the seven- 
teenth century the industry was well developed and genuine 
Emmental cheese was being exported. In 1722 its manufacture 
under the name of Gruyere is recorded in France, two cooperative 
societies having been organized for this purpose. 

Emmental cheese is now manufactured in every civilized 
country. In the United States there are many factories, lo- 
cated principally in Wisconsin, New York, and Ohio. In 
Switzerland the greater part of the milk produced is made into 
this product, and large districts in France and northern Italy 
are devoted to its manufacture. The best of the product made 
in Switzerland is exported, about 5,000,000 pounds coming to 
the United States annually. 

Gorgonzola. This variety, known also as Stracchino di Gor- 
gonzola, is a rennet Italian cheese made from whole cows' milk. 
The name is taken from the village of Gorgonzola, near Milan ; 
but very little of this cheese is now made in that immediate 
locality. The interior of the cheese is mottled or veined with a 
penicillium much like Roquefort, and for this reason the cheese 
has been grouped with the Roquefort and Stilton varieties. As 
seen upon the markets in this country, the surface of the cheese 
is covered with a thin coat resembling clay, said to be prepared 
by mixing barite or gypsum, lard or tallow, and coloring matter. 
The cheeses are cylindrical in shape, being about 12 inches in 
diameter and 6 inches in height, and as marketed are wrapped 
in paper and packed with straw in wicker baskets. 

The manufacture of Gorgonzola cheese is an important 
industry in Lombardy, where formerly it was carried on prin- 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 97 

cipally during the months of September and October, but with 
the establishment of curing cellars in the Alps, especially near 
Lecco, the manufacture is no longer confined to this season. 

At an early stage in the process of ripening the cheese is usually 
punched with an instrument about 6 inches long tapering from 
a sharp point to a diameter of about one eighth inch at the 
base. About 150 holes are made in each cheese. This favors 
the development of the penicillium throughout the interior of 
the cheese. Well-made cheese may be kept for a year or longer. 
In the region where made, much of the cheese is consumed while 
in a fresh condition. 

Gruyere. This name is applied to Emmental cheese manu- 
factured in France, the name originating from the Swiss village 
of Gruyere. The cheese was first mentioned in 1722, when two 
societies were reported to have been organized for its manu- 
facture. The Gruyere cheese is made in three different qualities 
— whole milk, partly skimmed, and skimmed. It is usually 
made from partly skimmed milk, and this is supposed to distin- 
guish it from Emmental, which is supposed to be made from 
whole milk. The manufacture of Gruyere cheese is an exten- 
sive industry in France, about 50,000,000 pounds having been 
manufactured annually the latter part of the last century. 

Limburg. This is a soft rennet cheese made from cows' milk 
which may contain all of the fat or be partly or entirely skimmed. 
The best Limburg is undoubtedly made from whole milk. This 
cheese has a very strong and characteristic odor and taste. 
The cheese is about 6 by 6 by 3 inches and weighs about 
2 pounds. 

Limburg cheese originated in the province of Luttich, Belgium, 
in the neighborhood of Herve, and was marketed in Limburg, 
Belgium. Its manufacture has spread to Germany and Austria, 
where it is very popular, and to the United States, where large 
quantities are made, mostly in New York and Wisconsin. 

According to Doane and Lawson no Limburg is imported into 



98 FOOD PRODUCTS 

this country at the present time, this type of cheese being made 
so cheaply and of such good quality in this country that the 
foreign make has been crowded out of the market. 

Neufchatel. This is a soft rennet cheese made extensively in 
the Department of Seine-Inferieure, France, from cows' milk 
either whole or skimmed. 

The milk, preferably fresh, is set at 85° F. with only so much 
rennet as is necessary to secure the desired coagulation in twenty- 
four hours in summer and from thirty-six to forty-eight hours 
in winter. The curd is then inclosed in cheesecloth and drained 
for twelve hours, after which it is subjected to pressure for an- 
other period of twelve hours. It is then thoroughly kneaded 
by hand, or in the larger factories by means of a curd mill, 
and pressed into tin cylinders about 2 inches in diameter and 
3 inches high. The cheeses are removed soon from the molds, 
salted, and replaced. After draining for twenty-four hours 
they are transferred to the so-called " drying room," where they 
become covered with white and later with blue molds. They 
are then taken to the curing cellar, where the ripening process is 
continued for three to four weeks. The appearance of red spots 
on the surface is taken as an indication that the ripening has 
progressed far enough. The cheeses are then wrapped in tin 
foil and marketed. 

Parmesan. This name is in common use outside of Italy for 
the cheese made and known in that country for centuries as 
Grana, the term " grana " or " granona " referring to the 
granular appearance of the cheese when broken, as is necessary 
on account of the hardness of the cheese, which makes cutting 
practically impossible. There are two quite distinct varieties 
of Parmesan cheese, one made in Lombardy and the other in 
Emilia, the centers of production being separated by the River 
Po. Parma, situated in Emilia, has long been an important 
commercial center for both varieties, and to this fact the name 
Parmesan is due. The use of the term " Parmesan," however, 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 99 

is sometimes restricted to the cheese made in Lombardy, the 
term " Reggian " being used to designate that made in Emilia. 

The Lombardy cheese made from April to September is known 
locally as Sorte Maggenga and that from October to March as 
Sorte Vermenga. The Reggian cheese is made only in summer. 

Parmesan cheese when well made may be broken and grated 
easily and may be kept for an indefinite number of years. It is 
grated and used largely for soups and with macaroni. A con- 
siderable quantity of this cheese is imported into this country 
and sells for a high price. 

Pineapple. This cheese, which is said to have had its origin 
in Litchfield County, Conn., about 1845, is so named from the 
fruit which the cheese is made to resemble in shape. It is a hard 
rennet cheese made from whole cows' milk. The cheese is quite 
hard and is rather highly colored. The early process of manu- 
facture is the same as with Cheddar^ except that it is made 
much harder. The curd is pressed in the desired shape in various 
sizes up to 6 pounds in weight. After pressing, the cheese is 
dipped for a few minutes in water at 120° F. and is then put in 
a net for twenty-four hours, which gives it the diamond-shaped 
corrugations on the surface. It requires several months to ripen 
and during this time the surface is rubbed with oil, which makes 
it very smooth and hard. 

Roquefort. This is a hard rennet cheese made from the milk 
of sheep. There are, however, numerous imitations or varieties 
closely resembling Roquefort, such as Gex and Septmoncel, 
made from cows' milk. One of the most striking characteristics 
of this cheese is the mottled or marbled appearance of the inte- 
rior, due to the development of a penicillium, which is the prin- 
cipal ripening agent. The manufacture of Roquefort cheese 
has been carried on in the southeastern part of France for at 
least two centuries. The industry is particularly important 
in the Department of Avekron, in which is situated the village 
of Roquefort, from which the cheese derives its name. It is 



lOO FOOD PRODUCTS 

also made in Corsica. Imitations of Roquefort cheese are 
made in various countries. 

Formerly the manufacture of the cheese was carried on by the 
shepherds themselves, but in recent years centralized factories 
have been established and much of the milk is collected and 
there made into cheese. The cheese is then taken to the caves. 
These are for the most part natural caverns which exist in large 
numbers in the region of Roquefort and the air circulates freely 
through them. Recently, artificial caves have been constructed 
and used. When the cheeses reach the caves they are salted, 
which serves to check the growth of the mold on the surface. 
One or two days later they are rubbed vigorously with cloth and 
are afterwards subjected to thorough scraping with knives, a 
process formerly done by hand, but now much more satisfac- 
torily and economically by machinery. The salting, scraping, 
or brushing seems to check the development of mold on the 
surface. In order to favor the growth of mold in the interior, 
the cheese is pierced by machinery with 60 to 100 small steel 
needles, which process permits the free access of air. The cheese 
may be sold after thirty to forty days or may remain in the caves 
as long as five months, depending upon the degree of ripening 
desired. The cheese loses during ripening by scraping and 
evaporation as much as 25 per cent of the original weight. The 
weight when ripened is about 4J to 5 pounds. 

Stilton. This is a hard rennet cheese, the best of which is 
made from cows' milk to which a portion of cream has been 
added. It was first made near the village of Stilton, Hunting- 
donshire, England, about the middle of the eighteenth century. 
It is now made principally in Leicestershire and West Rutland- 
shire, though its manufacture has extended to other parts of 
England. Its manufact::re has been tried, though without 
success, in the United States. The cheese is about 7 inches in 
diameter and 9 inches high, and weighs 12 to 15 pounds. It has 
a very characteristic wrinkled or ridged skin or rind, which is 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS lOI 

likely caused by the drying of molds and bacteria on the surface. 
When cut it shows blue or green portions of mold which give 
its characteristic piquant flavor. The price in this country is 
about 45 cents a pound wholesale. The cheese belongs to the 
same group as the Roquefort of France and the Gorgonzola of 
Italy. 

Relation of Microorganisms to Cheesemaking 

That there should be hundreds of varieties of cheese all made 
from milk, rennet, and salt, but each having a characteristic 
flavor, is chiefly due to the differences in the microor ga nisms. 
which take part in the ripening of the different varieties. 

As a rule in the hard cheeses the ripening agents are distrib- 
uted throughout the cheese mass at the beginning of the ripen- 
i ng proces s and therefore act in a more or less uniform way 
throughout the cheese whatever its size ; while in the soft cheeses 
the ripening process is largely due to org anisms growin g on the 
Surf ace and producing product^ which only gradu ally penetrate 
the cheese mass, so that it is practically necessary that these 
cheeses be made in small sizes. 

It will be recalled from the above description of Cheddar 
cheesemaking that lactic acid bacteria are active in the ripen- 
ing of the milk before curdling, in the whey and curd during 
the cheesemaking process, and in the ripening cheese. Accord- 
ing to Hastings ^ the maximum number of bacteria is found 
when the cheese is one to five days old and may be as high as 
1,500,000,000 per gram of moist cheese. While no one species 
is considered entirely responsible for this lactic acid fermenta- 
tion, it is essential that the desirable types producing a clean 
lactic acid fermentation without gas production shall predomi- 
nate over the undesirable gas-producing types. 

During the ripening process the number of active lactic acid 
bacteria becomes considerably reduced and it is believed that 

1 Marshall's Microbiology, page 354. 



I02 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the substances liberated in disintegration of these bacteria 
may play a part in the development of the characteristic 
flavor. 

Emmental cheese (" Swiss " or " Schweitzer " cheese) differs 
from Cheddar cheese in that the lactic acid fermentation is 
much less pronounced during the process of making the cheese, 
while the fermentation during the ripening process is of a some- 
what different type and gives rise to a different flavor. Lactic 
acid bacteria produce lactic acid or lactates which in turn are 
attacked by organisms of a different type with the production 
of carbon dioxide to which the characteristic holes or " eyes " 
are due. 

Roquefort cheese owes its mottled appearance and much at 
least of its characteristic flavor to the growth of a mold, Penicil- 
lium roqueforti (Thom), which is introduced by sprinkling the 
curd with crumbs of bread on which this mold has grown. The 
growth of the mold in the cheese is favored by punching holes 
to admit the air. 

Gorgonzola and Stilton cheeses resemble Roquefort and are 
supposed to contain either the same mold or a related type, 
Penicillium glaucum. 

Camembert cheese owes its characteristic flavor and consist- 
ency chiefly to the growth of two molds, Oidium (Oospora) 
lacHs, which covers the cheese during the first few days of ripen- 
ing, and Penicillium camemberti, which appears later. These 
molds utilize organic acids as food, thus reducing the acidity of 
the cheese, while they produce proteolytic (protein-digesting) 
enzymes which gradually penetrate and soften the cheese. 
The reduction of acidity, however; also renders the cheese more 
susceptible to attack by putrefactive bacteria which, if allowed 
to multiply in the cheese, will soon change its flavor. The man- 
ufacture of Camembert cheese is particularly difficult because 
the development of the desired consistency and flavor depends 
upon such a close control of conditions as will maintain a deli- 



I 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 103 

cate balance in the development of the different organisms 
involved. 

Brie also owes its flavor and consistency to molds, while the 
red coloration of the surface is attributed to a bacillus. 

Limburg cheese is characteristic of the type in which devel- 
opment of putrefactive bacteria is allowed to continue to a con- 
siderable extent with a corresponding development of putrefac- 
tive odor. 

These statements regarding the role of microorganisms in 
cheese ripening are based largely upon Marshall's Microbiology,' 
pages 354-362, and Buchanan's Household Bacteriology, pages 
297-301, which works, as well as the more special papers 
listed in the bibliography at the end of this chapter, may be con- 
sulted for more detailed discussions. 

Commercial Quality 

The commercial quality of cheese depends upon th e flavor , 
textu re, body , color, and " appearance ." By flavor is meant 
the quality which is perceptible to the taste and smell. " Tex- 
ture " refers chiefly to compactness or appearance of solidity. 
*' Body " means the consistency or firmness as revealed by 
pressing a piece of the cheese between finger and thumb. Color 
should be uniform whether the cheese is artificially colored or 
not. " Appearance " as the term is here used applies to the 
exterior finish of the cheese and its package. 

The technical terms used in describing these qualities, to- 
gether with other practices relating to the commercial grading 
and scoring of cheese, are described and explained in Van Slyke 
and Publow's Science and Practice of Cheese-making, Chapter 
VIII. 

The following are typical scales of points used in judging and 
scoring cheese : 



I04 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Flavor 
Texture . 
Body . . 
Color . . 
Appearance 



Home-trade Cheese 




Composition, Adulteration, Standards of Purity 

Qualitative composition. As is readily seen from its method 
of manufacture, cheese contains the casein and fat of the milk 
and so much of whey as does not drain out of the curd. The 
retention of portions of whey will of course keep in the cheese 
appreciable but small amounts of lactalbumin, of the soluble 
salts of the milk, and of milk sugar or the lactic acid resulting 
from its fermentation. 

Quantitative composition. The composition of the milk and 
the details of manipulation in the manufacture of the cheese 
naturally influence the composition of the product. In a series 
of analyses covering 156 samples of green cheese of the Cheddar 
type made in various factories in New York State in 1 892-1 893, 
Van Slyke found: moisture, 32.7 to 43.9 per cent; fat, 30.0 Jo 
36.8 per cent; protein, 20.8 to 26.1 per cent. Samples from 
more widely scattered sources would doubtless show greater 
variation. The approximate average composition of the prin- 
cipal types of cheese is shown in Table 6. 

Except that the soft cheeses like Brie, Camembert, and Neuf- 
chatel are wetter and the hard pineapple cheese is dryer, it 
will be seen that the different varieties do not differ greatly 
from an average composition of about one third water, one third 
fat, and one fourth protein. These statements, of course, relate 
to whole milk cheese. 

The fat of cheese, while not so perfectly emulsified as it origi- 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 



105 



nally existed in the milk, is still in a finely divided state and 
should be quite uniformly distributed throughout the cheese- 
mass. Chemically it has the composition of milk fat or butter 
fat and shows but little change as the result of the ripening 
process. 

Table 6. Approximate Average Composition of Different Types 

OF Cheese 1 



I 



Variety 


Water 


Fat 


Protein 

(NX6.25) 


Salt, Milk Sugar, Lactic 
Acid, and Ash 




Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Brie . . . 


SO. 


28. 


18. 


4- 


Camembert . 


45- 


30- 


20. 


5- 


Cheddar . . 


35. 


34- 


25- 


6. 


Edam . . . 


2>2>- 


29. 


29. 


9- 


Emmental 


34- 


31- 


30. 


S- 


Limburg . . 


35- 


30- 


29. 


6. 


Neufchatel . 


50. 


27. 


18. 


S- 


Parmesan . . 


35- 


21- 


36. 


8. 


Pineapple 


24. 


38. 


30- 


8. 


Roquefort 


35- 


32. 


25- 


8. 


Stilton . . 


32>- 


31- 


25- 


5- 



The protein of cheese consists chiefly of the more or less 
digested casein (though to a small extent of the albumin also) 
of the milk. It has already been shown in the paragraph on 
the ripening process that much of the casein is digested, not only 
into a soluble protein, but to proteoses, peptones, and even amino 
acids and ammonia. Of the successive analyses shown in 
Table 5, the one made when the cheese was six months old most 
nearly represents the stage of digestion at which it is ordinarily 
sold and eaten. 

The ash of cheese varies greatly in composition according as 
much or little salt has been added during manufacture. It is 

1 Based on analyses given in Bulletin 105, Bureau of Animal Industry, United 
States Department of Agriculture. 



Io6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

always high in calcium, phosphorus, and sulphur, and fairly high 
in iron, these elements of the milk being largely constituents of 
the curd; while the potassium, sodium, and chlorine of the 
milk are largely removed in the whey, but the sodium and chlo- 
rine are later more than restored in the added salt. 

Adulteration and misbranding. The chief forms of adulter- 
ation and misbranding of cheese are deficiency (or substitution) 
of fat, excess of moisture, and misuse of geographical names. 
Cheese made from milk which has been wholly or partially 
skimmed is known as " skimmed milk cheese " or " skim cheese." 
This is a wholesome and nutritious food, but less palatable and 
of much less fuel value than whole milk cheese. Unless its sale 
is carefully regulated it is apt to be substituted to a greater or 
less extent for whole milk cheese, at least in retail trade, which 
is considered serious both as an imposition upon the consumer 
and as an inury to the cheese trade. Van Slyke and Publow 
point out that skim-milk cheese is not only deficient in fat but 
must also contain an excess of water in order to be salable, since 
a skim-milk cheese with only the same amount of water as a 
whole-milk cheese would be too hard and tough to be acceptable, 
and that because of this high moisture content it does not possess 
the keeping qualities of whole-milk cheese. They suggest that 
the sale of skim-milk cheese should be prohibited in the interest 
of the cheese industry. In many localities the restrictions placed 
upon skimmed milk cheese are in fact so stringent that it is 
practically driven out of the market. 

Cheese made from skimmed milk and added fat is called " filled 
cheese." The trade in this cheese is also subjected to restric- 
tions which are very nearly prohibitive. The United States 
cheese law requires that filled cheese shall be packed only in 
wooden containers which must be very conspicuously branded 
with the words " filled cheese " in several places, and retailers 
must sell only from these original packages and must deliver 
each portion of such cheese sold in a marked and branded pack- 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 107 

age. (See Wing's Milk and Its Products^ pages 382-387, 
where the full text of the law is given.) 

Sometimes the cheese curd is soaked in cold water before the 
final draining, salting, and pressing. This practice is declared 
fraudulent by the Board of Food and Drug Inspection (Food 
Inspection Decision 97) on the ground that it introduces an un- 
due amount of water into the cheese and also gives it a soft 
texture and an appearance of superior quality which deceives 
the purchaser as to its real nature. The Board further states 
that such cheese is of inferior quality in that it develops less of 
the desirable cheese flavor and that it deteriorates during the 
curing process, and therefore rules that such cheese may not 
enter interstate commerce unless under some such name as 
*' soaked curd cheese." 

Standards of purity. According to the definitions and stand- 
ards recommended by the Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists : 

Cheese is the sound, solid, and ripened product made from milk 
or cream by coagulating the casein thereof with rennet or lactic 
acid, with or without the addition of ripening ferments and 
seasoning, and contains, in the water-free substance, not less 
than 50 per cent of milk fat. By act of Congress, approved 
June 6, 1896, cheese may also contain added coloring matter. 

It will be noted that this standard sets no specific Hmit to the 
water content, but requires that the fat in the cheese shall be 
milk fat and shall constitute not less than 50 per cent of the 
total solids of the cheese. (Cheese with a lower fat content 
may be sold as skimmed milk cheese.) 

This is based on the proportions of fat and casein in whole 
milk and on analyses of cheese made by the New York State 
Experiment Station in cooperation with cheesemakers of the 
state and in Wisconsin in connection with a cheese-scoring 
contest. 

In the New York analyses the percentage of fat in the water- 



lo8 FOOD PRODUCTS 

free substance varied from 50.39 to 56.83 ; in the Wisconsin 
analyses from 51.35 to 56.4. 

Evidently therefore the requirement that 50 per cent of the 
solids shall be fat sets a high standard and assumes not only the 
use of normal milk but also skillful making of cheese to avoid 
loss of fat. 

Minnesota has a standard calling for 45 per cent fat in the 
solids of cheese. Colorado requires only 35 per cent. Missouri 
requires that cheese be made of milk having at least 3 per cent 
fat. In Ohio any cheese having less than 26 per cent fat (in 
the moist substance) must be sold as skimmed milk cheese. 

Van Slyke estimates that cheese made from normal whole 
milk rarely contains less than 32 per cent fat in the moist sub- 
stance, even when green. 

Nutritive Value and Place in the Diet 

A pound of cheese represents the casein and fat of a gallon o f 
average m ilk. The high nutritive value of casein has been ex- 
plained in the preceding chapter. Cheese is thus a concentrated 
and economical food, especially when compared with other foods 
of animal origin. 

Generally speaking cheese sells at no higher price per pound 
than the ordinary cuts of meat, while it is considerably richer in 
both proteins and fat. 

While fluctuations in price and in the proportions of fat and 
bone in the meats make exact comparisons impracticable except 
for individual cases, yet it is a fair general estimate that a given 
amount of money spent for American cheese at ordinary prices 
will buy about twice as much food value as it would if spent for 
meat. In most localities cheese gives a greater return in food 
value for the money expended than other staple foods of animal 
origin, but in some places milk may be obtained at such prices 
as to make it a cheaper food than cheese. 

Cheese is very rich, not only in protein and fat, but also in 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 109 

calcium and ^hosphor us, since these elements in milk are largely 
in combination in or with the casein and so are concentrated 
with the casein in the process of cheesemaking. The iron- 
protein compounds of the milk are also retained in the cheese. 

Digestibility of cheese. The discomfort which sometimes 
follows the eating of cheese may be due in part to irritation of 
the stomach by the volatile aci(J5 and some of the protein cleav- 
age products developed during the ripening, but is doubtless 
very largely _a ttributable to the u nsuitable way in wh ich cheese 
is often eaten — as at hours other than meal times or at the end 
of a meal already sufficient. When given a rational place in the 
mea L and thoroughly chewed, cheese is usually well digested. 
In a large number of digestion experiments carried out by the 
United States Department of Agriculture, it was found that on 
an average about 95 per cent of the protein and over 95 per cent 
of the fat of the cheese were digested and absorbed.^ Hence 
so far as the coefficients of digestibility are concerned the various 
kinds of cheese tested were found to compare favorably with 
the average food of an ordinary mixed diet. Even when fed 
in relatively large quantity the cheese did not, in these experi- 
ments, cause constipation '' or other physiological disturbances." 

The general belief that cheese is difficult of digestion is attrib- 
uted by Langworthy to its being digested to a less extent in 
the stomach than many other foods, the digestion of the cheese 
taking place chiefly in the intestine. In order to determine 
whether the digestion of cheese requires a greater expenditure 
of energy than the digestion of meat, Langworthy measured 
accurately by means of the respiration calorimeter - the energy 
metabolism of the same man after eating a meal consisting chiefly 
of beef and again under circumstances otherwise the same after 
eating a meal containing instead of the beef a corresponding 
amount of cheese. The results differed by only 2 Calories per 

1 Yearbook of the United States Department of Agriculture, igio, page 366. 
* Described in Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, Chapter V. 



no FOOD PRODUCTS 

hour, which is about the margin which must be allowed for exper- 
imental error in such measurements. Langworthy therefore 
concludes that " it seems fair to believe that there was practi- 
cally no difference between the cheese and the meat with respect 
to ease of digestion, at least in such quantities as are commonly 
eaten." 

Place of cheese in the diet. Langworthy records a case of 
a young man who " for the sake of such considerations as ease 
of preparation and relative economy " lived for over two years 
on a diet of cheese, bread, and fruit. The man enjoyed good 
health and did not tire of his diet. A quantitative record cover- 
ing a part of the time indicated that the man was accustomed 
to consume slightly over one half pound of cheese, one pound 
of whole wheat bread, and two pounds of fresh fruit per 
day. 

The amounts of cheese eaten by the various men who took 
part in the experiments of the United States Department of 
Agriculture were usually from one third to one half pound per 
day. These quantities were taken with relish and were well 
digested even though the men as a rule had previously not been 
accustomed to eat any considerable quantity of cheese. 

The bulletin by Langworthy and Hunt already referred to 
contains many specific suggestions for the use of cheese in .a 
variety of ways and includes the following conclusions: 

Experiments have shown that when eaten either raw or carefully cooked, 
cheese is as thoroughly digested as other staple foods and is not likely to 
produce physiological disturbance. 

The fact that cheese, like meat, contains neither starch nor cellulose 
suggests that, like meat, it should be combined with bread, potatoes, and 
other starchy foods, with vegetables and with sweets. The concentrated 
character of cheese and many cheese dishes suggests the use of succulent 
fruits and vegetables with them. The high percentage of fat in cheese 
suggests the use of correspondingly small amounts of fat in the accompany- 
ing dishes, while the soft texture of cheese dishes as compared with meat 
makes it reasonable to serve the harder and crustier breads with them. 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS iii 

Though cheese is so generally used in some way in most families, yet 
the making of menus with cheese as a central dish is less well understood 
than more usual food combinations, since there is less experience to serve 
as a guide. More thought is therefore usually required to arrange such 
cheese meals in order that they may be palatable and at the same time 
reasonable in nutritive value. 

In order that the diet may remain well balanced, cheese, if used in quantity, 
should replace foods of similar composition rather than supplement them. 

This means that the housekeeper, in suitable ways, can use cheese, meat, 
fish, eggs, and other foods of similar composition as substitutes for one an- 
other, being governed by their relative market value at different times and 
seasons, by the tastes of her family, and similai considerations. If she uses 
the different foodstuffs with reference to their nutritive value and is skillful 
in preparing foods in appetizing ways and in serving them in attractive 
combinations, the daily fare may be both adequate and pleasing, whether 
she selects cheese or meat or fish or eggs or other foods to supply nitrogenous 
material and fat. 

As a lready suggested, cheese should be eaten with intelligence 
to avoid dan ger of irritation of the stomach, and a warning may 
also ^ added against eating large quantities at a time of che ese^ 
which has been so highly ripened as to contain a c ^n'^i'^^^^^^^ 
percentage of ammonia. With these precautions cheese may 
well be used as_a_re gular staple article of food , interchangeably 
with such ' foods as meats and fish,^ As the food value and diges- 
tibility of cheese become better known it should come to occupy 
a much more prominent place m the typical dietary than it does 
at present. 

Fermented Milks 

We have seen that the making of cheese is a very old method 
of preserving milk for future use as food. Another old method, 
yielding a product less permanent than cheese, but more perijia- 
nent than fresh milk, is to allow the milk to undergo fermentation 
of such a character that the fermentation products are not 
unwholesome or unpleasant for human consumption, yet serve 
as preservatives to prevent undesirable types of decomposition. 



112 FOOD PRODUCTS 

The fermentation product chiefly depended upon in such cases 
is lactic acid, although in certain types alcoholic fermentation 
may also be prominent. Fermented milks have long been a 
prominent article of diet in Southern Russia, Turkey, Bulgaria, 
and neighboring countries, and in recent years various products 
of this type such as kumiss, kefir, yoghurt, and fermented milks 
sold under proprietary names have come into increasing use in 
Western Europe and in America. 

Buttermilk is a food of the same type, and until recently the 
demand for fermented milk in this country was readily met by 
the sale of a part of this by-product of buttermaking. As the 
manufacture of butter and the handling of market milk and 
cream grew to be separate industries, dealers in milk and cream 
sometimes met the demand for buttermilk by fermenting the 
skim milk which remains as a by-product of the cream trade. 
Such fermented skim milk is, of course, not literally buttermilk, 
although it may be indistinguishable in composition and prop- 
erties and equal in food value. 

On the other hand, the products made by fermenting whole 
milk are of considerably greater food value because of their 
higher fat content. 

It is, however, not simply because of the amounts of nutri- 
ents which they contain that these fermented milks have at- 
tracted special attention in recent years, but because of beUef 
that the finely coagulated casein of these preparations is more 
easily digested than the curds which are formed in the stomach 
after drinking ordinary milk, and especially because of the 
possible therapeutic or prophylactic value of the lactic acid or 
lactic acid bacteria which they contain. 

In some cases it is possible that the fermentation products 
(lactic acid, alcohol, carbonic acid) may have a slight stimu- 
lating or tonic action in the digestive tract; otherwise any 
increased digestibility of the fermented milk is due not so much 
to changes in the chemical nature of the milk constituents as to 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS . MILK PRODUCTS 113 

the fact that the casein is furnished in a precipitated and finely- 
divided condition. The fermentation does not involve any- 
material digestive cleavage of the casein such as occurs in the 
ripening of cheese. The fat is almost unchanged and only a 
part of the milk sugar is converted into organic acids, alcohol, 
and carbonic acid. In certain disorders of the stomach in which 
there is much difficulty in retaining food, it has frequently been 
found possible to use one or another of the fermented milks 
with good results. As the result of the studies of Metchnikoff 
and his associates at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, there has 
recently been much interest in fermented milks as a possible 
means of preventing or controlling excessive intestinal putre- 
faction. It is for this purpose that cultures supposed to give 
a purer lactic acid fermentation than that of buttermilk have 
been introduced. In buttermilk or in ordinary milk which has 
been allowed to sour freely, there is usually developed only 
about I per cent of lactic acid ; but certain selected species of 
lactic acid bacteria, notably B. bulgaricus, may carry the fer- 
mentation to such a point that the milk may contain 2 per cent 
of lactic acid or even more. 

The use of fermented milk in combating the putrefactive bac- 
teria of the large intestine is based on the theory that the intro- 
duction of lactic acid bacteria or of lactic acid itself into the 
intestine makes the conditions unfavorable for the putrefactive 
bacteria. The question therefore arises whether the lactic acid 
taken in the food reaches the large intestine in sufficient quan- 
tity to be effective or is absorbed from the small intestine, and 
whether it is possible to establish a predominance of lactic acid 
bacteria in the intestinal tract by taking rich cultures of such 
bacteria in the food. The evidence on these points is conflicting, 
some observers reporting much diminution of intestinal putre- 
faction as the result of drinking fermented milk, while others 
find Httle if any effect. Herter held that the total amount 
of protein in the food is an important factor in the problem and 



114 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



that the mere addition of fermented milk to the diet may do as 
much harm as good through making the total amount of protein 
excessive, whereas improvement may result if the fermented 
milk is substituted for some high-protein food so that the total 
protein eaten is either kept constant or diminished. 

The evidence at present available leaves the therapeutic value 
of fermented milks somewhat uncertain, but there is no doubt 
that they are valuable foods especially for those who either 
relish or digest the fermented milk better than the unfermented. 
The advantages of milk as a food (see latter part of last chapter) 
apply in general to fermented milk also. 

Some representative analyses of fermented milks are given 
in Table 7. 

Table 7. Analyses of Some Fermented Milks 





Buttermilk 
(Larsen and White) 


Kumss OR Kefir (Hammarsten) 




2 days old 


4 days old 


6 days old 




Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Water . . . 


90-39 


88.12 


88.79 


89.00 


Fat. . . . 


0.50 


3-62 


3-63 


3-63 


Protein 


3.60 


3-03 


3-07 


3-07 


Milk Sugar . 


4.06 


3-70 


2.24 


1.67 


Lactic Acid . 


0.80 


0.66 


0.83 


0.90 


Alcohol 




0.23 


0.81 


1. 10 


Ash ... 


0.7s 


0.64 


0.63 


0.63 



Evaporated or Condensed Milk 

By evaporating a large proportion of the water from milk, 
the keeping property is much improved and the labor and ex- 
pense of subsequent handling and transportation of the product 
are further reduced through the saving in bulk and weight. 
Sugar is often added as a preservative. Condensed milk, whether 
sweetened or unsweetened, may be marketed in bottles like ordi- 
nary milk, in which case it is intended for use within a very 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 115 

few days, or it may be sealed in tin cans for indefinite keeping 
like other canned foods. 

The condensed milk industry began with the granting of a 
patent for " concentrating sweet milk by evaporation in vacuo " 
to Gail Borden, Jr., in 1856. In 1880 the total production 
(United States Census) in the United States was 13,033,267 
pounds valued at $1,547,588 ; in 1890, 37,926,821 pounds valued 
at $3,586,927; in 1900, 186,921,787 pounds valued at 
$11,888,792 ; in 1909, 494,796,544 pounds valued at $33,563,129. 
It is evident that the industry is growing very rapidly and the 
present production is doubtless much above that of 1909. The 
census returns for that year show about equal amounts of the 
sweetened and the unsweetened product. 

Sweetened condensed milk is manufactured by a carefully 
regulated process which in brief outline may be described as 
follows: Fresh cows' milk is heated to 160° to 180° F. to expel 
the dissolved gases and then run into vacuum pans, about 16 
pounds of sugar per 100 pounds of fresh milk is added, and the 
mixture evaporated in vacuo at a temperature of 130° to 150° F. 
until the desired concentration is reached, usually until one 
pound of the final product represents about 2I to 2 J pounds of 
fresh milk. This final product is of semiliquid consistency 
with a specific gravity of about 1.29 and averages about 30 per 
cent water, 30 per cent milk solids, and 40 per cent cane sugar. 

The products of individual manufactures may vary consider- 
ably from this average. In 24 analyses compiled by the United 
States Department of Agriculture,^ the variations were as 
follows: water 21.6 to 37.3, average 26.9 per cent; protein 
6.0 to 10.5, average 8.8 per cent; fat 0.4 to 10.6, average 8.3 
per cent; carbohydrates, 44.4 to 56.9, average 54.1 per cent; 
ash. 1.5 to 2.1, average 1.9 per cent. Here the most noticeable 
variation is in the fat content, due to the fact that some of the 
analyses represent the product obtained from milk which had 

1 Bulletin 28, Ofl&ce of Experiment Stations. 



Il6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

previously been skimmed. Under present regulations such a 
product must be labeled " condensed skim milk " to avoid 
confusion with the whole milk product. The latter has been 
standardized by the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists 
as follows: 

" Sweetened condensed milk is milk from which a considerable 
portion of water has been evaporated and to which sugar (sucrose) 
has been added, and contains not less than 28 per cent of milk 
soUds of which not less than 27.5 per cent is milk fat." . 

{Note. Twenty-seven and five tenths per cent of twenty- 
eight per cent equals seven and seven tenths per cent of fat in 
the condensed milk.) 

Unsweetened condensed milk, commonly called evaporated 
milk, is prepared in essentially the same manner as described 
under sweetened condensed milk above, except that no sugar is 
added, the ratio of concentration is usually slightly less, and the 
final product, after sealing in cans, is sometimes sterilized by 
heating at 226° F. to 240° F. for from 30 to 60 minutes. The 
final product has a creamy consistency and a specific gravity 
of about 1.065. According to the standards recommended by 
the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists in 1906, it must 
contain not less than 28 per cent of milk solids with a minimum 
of 7.7 per cent fat. 

More recently,^ as the result of further study, the Board of 
Food and Drug Inspection has revised the requirement, raising 
the fat standard slightly and allowing a somewhat lower degree 
of concentration, and therefore somewhat lower percentage of 
solids-not-fat, in the case of milk having more than the required 
amount of fat. This is accomplished by requirement that the 
percentage of fat shall be not less than 7.8, and the sum of the 
percentages of total solids and fat shall be not less than 34.3. 
In the same decision it was specified that evaporated milk should 
be prepared from milk of good quality and contain no added 

^ Food Inspection Decision 131. 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 1 17 

butter or butter oil incorporated either with the whole or 
skimmed milk before evaporation or with the evaporated milk 
at any stage of manufacture. 

To make 100 pounds of evaporated milk which shall meet the 
requirements of the Board of Food and Drug Inspection, in 
solids and fat, will require 240 pounds of milk which contains 
3.25 per cent of fat and 8.5 per cent of other solids, or 204 pounds 
of milk containing 4 per cent of fat and 8.9 per cent of other 
solids. 

Whether the evaporated milk can be sold at retail at a price 
which makes it more economical to the consumer than an equiv- 
alent amount of fresh milk of corresponding sanitary quality 
will depend upon local conditions. In the markets of the large 
cities at present (and naturally to a still greater extent in the 
small towns of the agricultural regions) the fresh milk appears 
to be more economical for the retail consumer. In markets at 
a distance from dairy districts the economic advantage will 
more often lie with the evaporated product. The fact that 
evaporated milk is less perishable than fresh milk is a decided 
advantage to purchasers who use milk for the manufacture of 
other products for which there is a fluctuating demand, such as 
ice cream and special bakery products. 

Dried or Powdered Milk 

Several processes have been invented for reducing milk to the 
form of a dry powder. The advantages of this are of course 
the great saving in bulk and weight and the fact that the pow- 
dered milk is even less subject to contamination or deterioration 
than evaporated or condensed milk. Among the devices for 
drying milk on a commercial scale are: (i) passing the milk in 
thin layers over heated surfaces preferably in vacuo, (2) blow- 
ing air through layers of milk which have been partially evapo- 
rated on perforated drying cyhnders, (3) spraying partially 



Il8 FOOD PRODUCTS 

evaporated milk into warm, dry air. The latter process as 
described by Merrill ^ is in outline as follows : 

Fresh whole milk is partially evaporated in a vacuum pan 
with precautions to prevent any of the albumin from coagulat- 
ing on the walls of the chamber. The milk, still in a fluid con- 
dition, is then drawn from the vacuum pan and sprayed into a 
current of hot air. The remaining moisture is thus instantly 
evaporated and the particles of milk solids fall like snow. This 
milk powder is said to contain less than 2 per cent moisture 
and to consist of particles from 2-77715" to t¥¥ or ii^ch in diameter, 
in which the fat, sugar, and albumin of the milk exist in a dry 
state, chemically unchanged. 

This process appears to be well established commercially, 
the product being purchased largely by bakers. 

According to data published by Wells in the Yearbook of the 
United States Department of Agriculture, there had already, in 
191 1, been granted over 60 patents covering devices for the 
manufacture of dried milk, and 10 factories were engaged in 
carrying on the industry in the United States. It was estimated 
that about 8,500,000 pounds of milk powder were made in this 
country in 19 10. Most of this was skim milk powder, because 
legal restrictions hamper the sale of skim milk as such to the 
consumer, while on the other hand it is more easily dried than 
whole milk and yields a product which is more readily kept, the 
fat of the whole milk powder being liable to become rancid on 
storage unless kept under special precautions. 

It is believed that the industry of drying both whole and 
skimmed milk has grown much since the above statistics were 
collected and is still growing rapidly. 

Cream 

Cream may be obtained from milk either by gravity or by 
centrifugal force. The prevailing method at present is by means 
1 Journal oj Industrial and, Engineering Chemistry, August, 1909. 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 119 

of centrifugal separators in which the milk flows continuously 
into a rotating bowl containing thin metal plates which separate 
the milk into inclined sheets in which by centrifugal force the 
heavier '' skim " milk is thrown toward the outer rim ^ and the 
lighter fat globules are forced toward the center. Thus while 
the separator is in operation a continuous stream of cream and 
another of skimmed milk are obtained from the inner and outer 
layers respectively of the rotated bowl of milk. In order that 
the skimmed milk shall not be thrown out of the machine with 
too great force, the tubes which receive it from the outer portion 
of the bowl are carried back toward the center of the bowl where 
they discharge into an outlet pipe. The size of the skim milk 
outlet may be made to bear any desired relation to the size of 
inlet, size of bowl, and speed of rotation, and thus any desired 
proportion of the whole milk may be drawn off as skimmed milk 
while the remainder is forced to the center of the bowl and dis- 
charged through the cream outlet. 

If the skimmed milk outlet is set to discharge only one half 
of the milk entering the bowl, the other half must discharge 
through the cream pipe and a large volume of very thin cream 
having only twice the fat content of the original milk will be 
obtained. 

If the skimmed milk tube be set to take nine tenths of the 
amount of milk which flows in, a small amount of rich cream 
having about ten times the fat content of the original milk will 
result. 

To a considerable extent these proportions and the resulting 
amount and richness of the cream may be controlled by regulat- 
ing the rate of inflow of milk without changing the size of the 
discharge pipes or the rate of running the machine. Thus, as 
illustrated by Wing : ''If the milk is turned into the bowl at 
such a rate that 0.8 escapes through the skimmed milk outlet, 

1 Suspended solids heavier than the skim milk are forced against the outer wall 
and result in a deposit of "separator slime." 



I20 FOOD PRODUCTS 

we shall have 0.8 skimmed milk and 0.2 cream. If now we 
reduce the rate of inflow by o.i, we shall get just as much 
skimmed milk as before, but only half as much cream; or if 
the inflow is increased by o.i we shall get the same amount of 
skimmed milk and one and one half times as much cream." 
In the first case, we should get from 100 pounds of milk with 
4 per cent fat, 80 pounds of skimmed milk with, say, o. i per cent 
of fat, and 20 pounds of cream with 19.6 per cent fat; in the 
second case from 90 pounds of the same milk, 10 pounds of cream 
with 35.2 per cent fat ; in the third case from no pounds of the 
same milk, 30 pounds of cream with 14.4 per cent of fat. This 
assumes that the completeness of the separation will be the 
same, which should be true so long as the separator is run within 
the range of its capacity. McKay and Larsen state that in 
skimming milk for buttermaking, separators are usually run 
to yield cream with 25 per cent to 50 per cent fat, but that most 
separators will do good skimming even up to a cream of 60 per 
cent fat content. When the separator is well managed, the 
skim milk does not contain over 0.1 per cent fat. 

Since cream is an artificial product of such variable composi- 
tion, it is obvious that any standard which may be set for the 
fat content of cream must necessarily be rather arbitrary. The 
standards which have been adopted appear to have been based 
largely on the fat content of the cream formerly obtained by 
the gravity process. 

The standard recommended by the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists requires not less than 18 per cent of milk 
fat ; and this has been adopted ^ by the states of California, 
Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisi- 
ana, Maine, Maryland, Missouri, Nebraska, New Hampshire, 
New York, Nevada, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, 

1 All these statements regarding state standards are based on Circular 218 (Re- 
vised) of the Bureau of Animal Industry, United States Department of Agriculture, 
dated November i, 1913. 



I 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS I2I 

South Dakota, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin, and 
Wyoming. Minnesota, Montana, Oregon, and the District of 
Columbia require 20 per cent fat ; Colorado, Iowa, and New 
Jersey require 16 per cent; Massachusetts and North Dakota 
require 1 5 per cent of fat ; Colorado and Kansas have standards 
of 25 per cent fat in cream for buttermaking. 

Market cream is apt to be at least half a day older than the 
corresponding grade of market milk and almost invariably has 
a higher bacteria content. 

The Commission on Milk Standards recommends that cream 
be classified on the same plan as milk except for the number of 
bacteria permitted, which may be five times the number per- 
mitted in the corresponding grade of milk. 

The Commission recommended that all cream be sold either 
on a guaranteed fat content or with a minimum standard of 
18 per cent milk fat; also that cream should contain no con- 
stituent foreign to normal milk. 

Ice Cream and Related Products 

According to the Vermont Agricultural Experiment Station, 
the output of the ice cream industry in the United States is 
valued at considerably more than $100,000,000 annually. The 
ice cream trade has grown enormously in recent years and ap- 
pears to be still increasing. Creameries which are favorably 
located find it often much more profitable to convert their cream 
into ice cream than into butter. 

The term " ice cream " is commonly applied to a variety of 
products, including what would more accurately be called frozen 
custards and water ices. There is not yet a consensus of opinion 
among food control authorities as to whether the wider applica- 
tion of the term " ice cream " is justified by common usage or 
whether the narrower and more literal usage should be insisted 
upon. 



122 FOOD PRODUCTS 

The Association of Official Agricultural Chemists in 1906 
proposed the following standards: 

Ice cream is a frozen product made from cream and sugar, 
with or without a natural flavoring, and contains not less than 
14 per cent of milk fat. 

Fruit ice cream is a frozen product made from cream, sugar, 
and sound, clean, mature fruits, and contains not less than 12 
per cent of milk fat. 

Nut ice cream is a frozen product made from cream, sugar, 
and sound, non-rancid nuts and contains not less than 12 per 
cent of milk fat. 

In 191 1 the Board of Food and Drug Inspection ruled against 
the use of *' homogenized " (finely divided by mechanical 
means) butter fat in making ice cream. 

As yet there has not been any general tendency throughout 
the country to adopt and enforce these stringent standards. 
Neither is there yet any general agreement as to whether or to 
what extent such materials as starch, flour, eggs, gelatin, and 
gums should be permitted. 

Those who desire to follow this subject further will find refer- 
ences at the end of this chapter. Special attention may be 
directed to Bulletin 155 of the Vermont Agricultural Experiment 
Station, in which the making of ice cream is discussed in detail, 
and to the article on ice cream standards by Wiley in Bulletin 
56 of the United States Public Health Service, in which are dis- 
cussed numerous trade practices which the standards above 
given were designed to control. 

Until the rnatter of terminology and standards is more defi- 
nitely settled, statements regarding the composition and food 
value of these products cannot be very definite. An ice cream 
which meets the standards of the Association of Official Agri- 
cultural Chemists is evidently a fairly concentrated food mate- 
rial, while many of the ices commonly called ice creams are essen- 
tially frozen beverages. Frozen products made from fermented 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 123 

milk, sugar, eggs, and fruit, fruit juices, or other flavoring have 
recently been introduced under the general name of " lacto." 

REFERENCES 
I 

Buchanan. Household Bacteriology. 

Conn. Bacteria in Milk and its Products. 

DoANE and Lawson, Varieties of Cheese : Descriptions and Analyses. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 

Bulletin 105. 
Konig. Chemie der Menschlichen Nahrungs und Genussmittel. 
Langworthy and Hunt. Cheese and it? Economical Uses in the Diet. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 487. 
Larsen and White. Dairy Technology. 
Marshall. Microbiology. 
Stohmann. Milch un^ Molkerei-produkte. 

Van Slyke and Publow. The Science and Practice of Cheesemaking. 
Washburn. Principles and Practice of Ice-cream Making, Vermont 

Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 155. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 
Wing. Milk and its Products. 

II 

Papers and Special Bulletins on Cheese 

Alvord, Babcock, Russell, and Van Slyke. The Cold Curing of Cheese. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 

Bulletin 49 (1903). 
Babcock, Russell, and Baer. Shrinkage of Cold-Cured Cheese during 

Ripening. Experiments in Paraffining Cheese. Wisconsin Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin loi (1903). 
Van Slyke, Smith, and Hart. Experiments in Curing Cheese at Different 

Temperatures. New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, 

Bulletin 234 (1903). 
Van Slyke and Hart. Conditions Affecting Chemical Changes in Cheese 

Ripening. New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

236 (1903). 
Rogers. The Relation of Bacteria to the Flavors of Cheddar Cheese. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 

Bulletin 62 (1904). 



124 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Russell and Hastings. Relation of Bacterial Life to Development of 
Flavor in Cold-Cured Cheddar Cheese. Wisconsin Agricultural Ex- 
periment Station, 21st Annual Report, pages 155-163 (1904). 

Russell and Hastings. A Swiss Cheese Trouble caused by a Gas-forming 
Yeast. Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 1 28 (1905) . 

Van Slyke and Hart. Some of the Relations of Casein and Paracasein 
to Bases and Acids and their Application to Cheddar Cheese. New 
York State Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 261 (1905). 

Thom. Fungi in Cheese Ripening; Camembert and Roquefort (with 
bibliography). United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 
of Animal Industry, Bulletin 82 (1906). 

DoANE. The Cold Curing of American Cheese, with digest of previous 
work on the subject. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Bulletin 85 (1906). 

IssAjEFF. Directions for Making Camembert Type of Cheese. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Bulletin 
98 (1907). 

Van Slyke and Bosworth. Some of the First Chemical Changes in Ched- 
dar Cheese. New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, Techni- 
cal Bulletin 4 (1907). 

Doane. Development of Lactic Acid in Cheddar Cheese Making. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Bulletin 
no (1908). 

Dox. Proteolytic Changes in the Ripening of Camembert Cheese (with 
bibliography). United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 
Animal Industry, Bulletin 109 (1908). 

Harding and Prucha. The Bacterial Flora of Cheddar Cheese. New 
York State Agricultural Experiment Station, Technical Bulletin 8 (1908). 

Doane. The Influence of Lactic Acid on the Quality of Cheese of the 
Cheddar Type. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 
Animal Industrj', Bulletin 123 (1910). 

Langworthy. Cheese and Other Substitutes for Meat in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1910, pages 359-370. 

Sammis, Suzuki, and Laabs. Factors controlling the Moisture Content of 
Cheese Curds. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 
Animal Industry, Bulletin 122 (1910). 

Doane. The Digestibility of Cheese. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 166 (191 1). 

Dox. The Composition of True Roquefort Cheese. Zeitschrift fiir 
Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 22, pages 239-242 
(1911). 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 125 

Van Dam. The Cheese Mass of Edam Cheese. Centralblatt fiir Bakteri- 

ologie und Parasitenkunde, II Abtheil, Vol. 32, pages 1-40 (191 1). 
Hastings, Evans, and Hart. The Bacteriology of Cheddar Cheese. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 

Bulletin 150 (1912). 
Hastings, Evans, and Hart. Studies on the Factors Concerned in the 

Ripening of Cheddar Cheese. Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment 

Station, Research Bulletin 25 (191 2). 
Lang worthy and Hunt. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the Diet. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 487 (191 2). 
Nierenstein. Contribution to the Chemistry of Cheddar Cheese. 

Journal of Agricultural Science, Vol. 4, pages 225-244 (191 2). 
SaMmis and Bruhn. The Manufacture of Cheddar Cheese from Pas- 
teurized Milk. Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station, Research 

Bulletin 27 (191 2). 
Reich. Cheese as a Food and its Economy. Archiv fiir Hygiene, Vol. 80, 

pages 169-195 (1913). 
Thom and Currie. The Dominance of Roquefort Mold in Cheese. Journal 

of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 15, pages 249-258 (1913). 
Currie. Flavor of Roquefort Cheese. Journal of Agricultural Research, 

Vol. 2, pages 1-14 (1914). 
Hart, Hastings, Flint, and Evans. Relation of the Action of Certain 

Bacteria to the Ripening of Cheese of the Cheddar Type. Journal 

of Agricultural Research, Vol. 2, pages 193-216 (1914)- 

Fermented Milks 

Fuhrmann. On Yoghurt. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- 
und Genussmittel, Vol. 13, pages 598-604 (1907). 

Engel. Yoghurt or Sour Milk and its Method of Manufacture. Mol- 
kerei-Zeitung, Vol. 22, pages 1461-1463 (1908). 

Hastings. A Preliminary Note on a Group of Lactic Acid Bacteria not 
previously Described in America. Science, Vol. 28, page 656 (1908). 

Herschell. On the Use of Selected Lactic Acid Bacilli and Soured Milk 
in the Treatment of Some Forms of Chronic Ill-health. Lancet, Vol. 
175, pages 371-374 (1908)- 

Herter and Kendall. The Fate of B. hulgaricus in the Digestive Tract of 
a Monkey. Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 5, pages 293-302 
(1908). . 

Klotz. Bacteriology of Yoghurt. Centralblatt fur Baktenologie, Par- 
asitenkunde und Infectiouskrankheiten, II Abtheil, Vol. 21, pages 
392-398 (1908). 



126 FOOD PRODUCTS 

LuERSSEN and Kuhn. Yoghurt, the Bulgarian Sour Milk. Centralblatt 
fiir Bakteriologie, Parasitenkunde und Infectionskrankheiten, II 
Abtheil, Vol. 20, pages 234-248 (1908). 

PiFFAKD. A Study of Sour Milks. New York Medical Journal, Vol. 87, 
pages 1-9 (1908) 

Stanislaus. Kefir and its Preparation. American Journal of Pharmacy, 
Vol. 80, pages 20-26 (1908). 

Baldwin. Influence of Lactic Acid Ferments upon Intestinal Putrefaction. 
Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 7, pages 37-48 (1909). 

Hastings and Hammar. The Occurrence and Distribution of Organisms 
similar to the B. hulgaricus of Yoghurt. Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie, 
Parasitenkunde und Infectionskrankheiten, II Abtheil, Vol. 25, pages 
419-426 (1909). 

Heinemann. Lactic Acid as an Agent to Reduce Intestinal Putrefaction. 
Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. 52, pages 372-376 
(1909). 

Heinemann and Hefferan. A Study of B. hulgaricus. Journal of Infec- 
tious Diseases, Vol. 6, pages 304-318 (1909). 

Herter. On the Therapeutic Action of Fermented Milk. Popular Science 
Monthly, Vol. 74, pages 31-42 (1909). 

Metchnikoff. The Utility of Lactic Microbes with Explanation of the 
Author's Views on Longevity. Century Magazine, Vol. 79, pages 53- 
58 (1909). 

White and Avery. Observations on Certain Lactic Acid Bacteria of the 
so-called Bulgaricus Type. Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie, Parasi- 
tenkunde und Infectionskrankheiten, II Abtheil, Vol. 25, pages 161-178 
(1909). 

Rogers. Fermented Milks. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 171 (1911). 

Hohenadel. Yoghurt, with especial Reference to Yoghurt Dried Prepara- 
tions. Archiv fiir Hygiene, Vol. 78, pages 193-218 (1913). 

Condensed and Dried Milks 

Booth. Dry Milk. Chemical Engineer, Oct., 1905. 

Hissey. (Use of Dried Milk as an Infant Food in Summer.) Archiv fiir 
Kinderheilkunde, Vol. 46, pages 63-95 (iQO?)- 

Merrill. Economic Reasons for the Reduction of Milk to Powder. Jour- 
nal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. i, pages 540-545 
(1909). 

Jordan and Mott. Condensed Milk and its Value for General Use and for 



CHEESE AND MISCELLANEOUS MILK PRODUCTS 127 

Infant Feeding. American Journal of Public Hygiene, Vol. 20, pages 

391-402 (1910). 
Ballner and von Stockert. Milk Powder. Zeitschrift fur Unter- 

suchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 22, pages 648-651 

(1911). 
Fleming. Analysis of Dried Milk and Cream (with results on 10 samples). 

Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 4, pages 543-544 

(1912). 
Stewart. On Some Dried Milks and Patent Foods. Original Communi- 
cations, 8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 

329-338 (191 2). 
KuHL. Dried Milk Products. Hygienische Rundschau, Vol. 23, pages 

709-713 (1913)- 
Wells. Condensed and Desiccated Milk. United States Department 

Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 2, pages 335-344 (1913)- 

Cream, Ice Cream, and Lacto 

Melick. Variations in Fat Content of Separator Cream. Kansas Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 137 (1906). 

Wiley. Ice Cream. United States Public Health Service, Hygienic Labo- 
ratory, Bulletin 56, pages 249-312 (1909). 

Alexander. Effect of Gelatin in Ice Cream. Zeitschrift fiir Chemie und 
Industrie der Kolloide, Vol. 5, pages 101-103 (1909). 

White. The Grading of Cream. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Yearbook for 1910, pages 275-280 (1910). 

Mortensen and Gordon. Lacto: A New and Healthful Frozen Dairy 
Product. Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 118 (1911)- 

Pennington, Hepburn, et al. Bacterial and Enzymic Changes in Milk and 
Cream at 0° C. Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 16, pages 331- 
368 (1913)- 



CHAPTER V 

EGGS 

Doubtless eggs of various kinds were among the very earliest 
of human foods. At the present time only the eggs of hens, 
ducks, geese, guinea fowl, and turkeys are commonly used for 
food ; and of these, hens' eggs are so much more abundant than 
all others that, unless otherwise explained, all statements made 
here may be understood as referring to hens' eggs. 

Production 

The production of eggs is widely distributed. It is estimated 
that about nine tenths of all farms in the United States keep 
chickens and produce eggs. It will be seen from Fig. 7 
that in poultry culture there is less tendency toward concen- 
tration in particular regions than is the case with many other 
food industries. 

It is difficult to measure the egg production of the country, 
because eggs are so largely consumed by the producer or sold at 
retail without going through trade channels from which accurate 
statistics can be obtained. The United Census Bureau esti- 
mates the egg industry at seventeen and one half dozen eggs 
per capita per year, i.e. an average of 210 eggs per year or 4 
eggs per week for each person in the United States. The value 
of these eggs (at point of production) is estimated by the Census 
Bureau at somewhat over $300,000,000 annually (for the year 
1909, $306,689,000). 

128 



EGGS 



129 




130 FOOD PRODUCTS 

According to Pennington and Pierce ^ only the States of Ohio, 
Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Kansas, Mis- 
souri, Texas, Tennessee, and Kentucky produce more eggs than 
are consumed within their own borders, and this surplus pro- 
duction does not continue throughout the year, but only during 
those months which are most favorable to laying. From Ten- 
nessee and Kentucky most eggs are sent to market during the 
period from December to April ; from Southern Ohio, southern 
Kansas, Missouri, and Texas many eggs are shipped during 
March and April; in the later spring northern Kansas, Iowa, 
Illinois, and the Central States generally show their heaviest 
production, while for Michigan and Minnesota the season is still 
later. 

For the country as a whole, as judged by the data of the large 
markets, the months of March, April, May, and June are those 
in which the largest number of eggs are shipped by the producers. 
During these months many eggs are placed in cold storage to 
be sold later when the supply is less abundant and the price 
higher. 

Eggs are graded in the market chiefly according to freshness , 
c leanlines s, size, cracks, and color. Freshness in this connec- 
tion means the firmness and state of preservation of the egg, 
rather than the mere length of time since laying. This freshness 
is determined chiefly by the process known as candling, which 
consists in looking through the egg against a bright light, such as 
an incandescent electric light, surrounded by an opaque shield 
in which is a hole shaped like an egg but slightly smaller in size. 
The egg is pressed firmly against this hole and, as the light shines 
through it, the yolk, the white, and the air-chamber may be ob- 
served. Figure 8 shows the appearance of a fresh sound egg and 
of eggs which have undergone different types of deterioration. 

Eggs sufficiently sound to pass the candling test may still be 
subdivided into many grades according to age, color, size, and 

1 United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1910. 



EGGS 



131 



cleanliness. It is these qualities rather than chemical composi- 
tion and nutritive value which determine the very different 
prices at which eggs are sold in the same market and at the same 
time. 

Chemical Composition 

Since the price of eggs is determined entirely by considerations 
other than chemical composition, and eggs are never produced 
primarily for industrial uses in which the components are 
separated from each other, there has been no economic reason 
for the study of the causes and extent of variations in composi- 
tion, and our information on these points is very meager as 
compared, for example, with the corresponding data for milk. 
Differences in composition seem usually due to different pro- 
portions of white and yolk. According to Langworthy the 
proportion of yolk (and therefore of fat) is greatest in the eggs 
of those breeds which are best adapted to fattening. Other 
things being alike, the edible portion of white-shelled and dark- 
shelled eggs shows essentially the same composition and nutritive 
value. 

The average composition of eggs of different kinds is 
given by Langworthy on page 132, the fuel values being recal- 
culated by the use of the now accepted factors. 

The figures given for hens' eggs in the following table are the 
average of 60 American analyses compiled by Atwater and 
Byrant ^ in which the protein varied from 11.6 to 16.0 per cent 
and the fat from 8.6 to 1 5.1 per cent. The estimated averages 
of European writers fall well within these limits, but are apt to 
be somewhat higher in fat than the American average as given 
above. Thus the estimate of Konig, which is widely quoted, 
allows 12.55 P^r cent protein and 12. 11 per cent fat. 

Speaking in round numbers we may say that the edible por- 

1 United States Department of Agriculture, Oflace of Experiment Stations, Bul- 
letin 28. 



132 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 8. Average Composition of Eggs (Langworthy) 



Description 



Hen: 

Whole egg as purchased 
Whole egg, edible portion 

White 

Yolk 

White-shelled eggs as pur 

chased 

Brown-shelled eggs as pur 
chased 

Duck : 

Whole egg as purchased . 
Whole egg, edible portion 

White 

Yolk 

Goose : 
Whole egg as purchased 
Whole egg, edible portion 

White 

Yolk 

Turkey : 

Whole egg as purchased 
Whole egg, edible portion . 

White 

Yolk 

Guinea fowl : 

Whole egg as purchased 
Whole egg, edible portion . 

White 

Yolk 

Plover : 
Whole egg as purchased 
Whole egg, edible portion . 

Fresh-water turtle eggs . . 

Sea-turtle eggs 

Salted duck eggs . . . . 



Refuse 
(Shell) 



Percent 



10.7 
10.9 
13-7 



14.2 



13.8 



16.9 



Water 



Percent 

73-7 
86.2 

49-S 

65.6 

64.8 

60.8 
70.5 
87.0 
45.8 

59.7 
69.5 
86.3 
44.1 

63.5 

86.7 
48.3 

60.5 
72.8 
86.6 
49-7 

67-3 
74-4 
65.0 
76.4 
68.0 



Protein 



Percent 

11.9 

13-4 
12.3 

iS-7 

11.8 

11.9 

12. 1 

II. I 
16.8 

12.9 
13-8 
11.6 
17-3 

12.2 
13-4 

17.4 

11.9 

13-5 
11.6 
16.7 

9-7 
10.7 
18.1 
18.8 
12.0 



Fat 



Percent 

9-3 

lo.s 

0.2 

10.8 



Ash 



Percent 
0.9 

I.O 

0.6 

I.I 

0.6 
0.7 



12.5 


0.8 


14-5 


1.0 


0.03 


0.8 


36.2 


1.2 


12.3 


0.9 


14.4 


1.0 


0.02 


0.8 


36.2 


1.3 


9-7 


0.8 


II. 2 


0.9 


0.03 


0.8 


32.9 


1.2 


9.9 


0.8 


12.0 


0.9 


0.03 


0.8 


31.8 


1.2 


10.6 


0.9 


II. 7 


1.0 


II. I 


2.9 


9.8 


0.4 


9.2 


4.0. 



Fuel 
Value 

PER 

Pound 



Calories 

596 

672 

231 

1643 

65s 

675 

730 

83s 

203 

1683 

829 

211 

1793 

618 

700 

216 

1660 

620 

735 

212 

1598 

609 
662 

772 
742 
594 



EGGS , 133 

tion of the egg contains 72 to 75 per cent of water, about i per 
cent of ash, 12 to 14 per cent protein, 10 to 12 per cent fat; 
or about three fourths water, one eighth protein, and one eighth 
fat. Of the edible portion the yolk constitutes (by weight) 
a little over one third and the white a little under two thirds ; 
and these are of very different composition. The white is about 
seven eighths water and one eighth protein (chiefly albumin) with 
a small amount of ash, consisting mainly of common salt with 
smaller amounts of potassium salts. The yolk is about one 
half water, one third fat and one sixth protein with more ash 
than the white, including relatively large amounts of phosphorus, 
calcium, and iron in organic combination. Thus the yolk is 
a much more concentrated food material than the white, con- 
taining in a given weight about seven times as much energy, as 
well as larger amounts of protein and of the chief ash constit- 
uents. 

The nature of the nutrients in eggs is of almost as much 
interest and importance as their amount. The fact that when 
an egg is kept at a proper temperature for about three weeks 
without the addition of anything from without, it produces 
a chick so well developed as to begin at once to walk and to eat 
the same food as the adult, suggests at once that the egg must 
contain substances which are very efficient as sources both of the 
energy and the materials for growth and development. 

The fat of egg is practically all in the yolk, and like milk fat 
it exists in a finely emulsified condition, so that it is capable of 
digestion in the stomach as well as in the intestine. Volhard 
has reported an experiment in which 78 per cent of the fat of 
egg yolk was digested in the stomach. A large proportion of the 
egg fat, probably at least one fourth, consists of phosphorized 
fats (lecithins together with closely related substances, such as 
kephalins). Egg lecithin is usually taken as typical of the 
"phosphorized fats," '' phospholipines," or " phosphatids." 
It has the chemical structure of a fat in which one of the fatty 



134 FOOD PRODUCTS 

acid radicles is replaced by a radicle of phosphoric acid in com- 
bination with a nitrogenous organic base (choline) . The t3^ical 
lecithin molecule thus contains one atom each of phosphorus 
and nitrogen; that described by Hoppe-Seyler had the com- 
position C44H90NPO9. 

Studies of the loss of weight together with the amount of 
carbon dioxide produced during incubation show that the energy 
expended in the developing embryo comes chiefly from the 
utilization of fatty matter, and analyses at different stages 
of development indicate that lecithin plays an important 
part in the development of the chick. Such observations 
gave rise for a time to an exaggerated impression of the in- 
fluence of lecithin upon growth. While we do not now expect 
to be able to produce abnormally large or rapid growth by 
lecithin feeding, there are reasons to believe that normal growth 
is dependent upon the presence of a certain amount of lecithin 
or related substance in the food, and that therefore the lecithin 
has a food value somewhat greater than that of a corresponding 
amount of simple fat and inorganic phosphate. 

Recent investigations, especially those of McCuUom and 
his associates at the Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station, 
appear to demonstrate that the nature of the fatty acids in both 
the ordinary fat and the phosphorized fat of the egg is in- 
fluenced by the food of the hen. This is consistent with earlier 
observations relating to the influence of the food upon butter 
fat and upon the fat of the adipose tissues. (See Chemistry of 
Food and Nutrition, Chapter IV.) 

Dissolved in the fat of the egg yolk is a yellow coloring matter 
to which the name lutein has been given. 

The proteins of egg are also of much interest, and those of the 
yolk and of the white are quite different in their properties. The 
fact that egg white contains so little of any other substances 
than protein and water makes it easy to observe the behavior 
of the proteins. Egg white is therefore largely used as a material 



EGGS 



135 



with which to demonstrate the properties of proteins — partic- 
ularly of the albumins, since ovalbumin is the chief protein of 
the egg white. According to Osborne and Campbell ^ egg white 
also contains small quantities of three other proteins called 
conalbumin, ovomucin, and ovomucoid. The chemical con- 
stitution of these minor proteins has not been studied. Ovalbu- 
min has been purified in quantity by Osborne, Jones, and Leaven- 
worth, and studied with reference to the amino acids yielded 
on hydrolysis ; the results together, with those for ovovitellin, 
are shown below. 

Ovovitellin is the chief protein of the egg yolk. It is believed 
to exist largely in chemical combination with lecithin.^ When 
freed from lecithin, it has nearly the composition of casein, as 
shown by the following analyses : 





Carbon 


Hydrogen 


Nitrogen 


Oxygen 


Sulphur 


Phos- 
phorus 


Casein 
Ovovitellin 


Per Cent 

53-13 
51-56 


Per Cent 
7.06 
7.12 


Per Cent 

15-78 
16.23 


Per Cent 
22.37 
23.24 


Per Cent 
0.80 
1.03 


Per Cent 
0.86 
0.82 



Casein and ovovitellin are regarded as the two typical phos- 
phoproteins. 

The percentages of the various amino acids obtained on hydrol- 
ysis of ovalbumin and ovovitellin, by Osborne and his associates, 
were as follows (Table 9). 

A comparison with the corresponding data given in Chapter 
III (Table 4) shows that ovovitellin resembles casein in the 
amino acid radicles which it contains as well as in its elementary 
composition. 



1 See references at the end of the chapter. 

2 Those who desire a fuller account of the chemistry of the egg protein should 
consult the original papers of Osborne and Campbell. (See references at end of 
chapter.) 



136 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 9. Percentages of Amino Acids from Egg Proteins 



Glycin^ . . , 

Alanin . . . 

Valin. . . . 
Leucin 

Prolin , . , 
Phenylalanin 

Aspartic acid . 
Glutamic acid 2 

Serin . . . , 

Tyrosin . . , 

Cystin . . . 
Histidin . 

Arginin . . . 

Lysin . . . 
Tryptophan 

Ammonia . . 




Table 10. Comparison of White and Yolk of Egg 



Constituent 



Water . 
Protein . 
Fat . . 
Ash . . 

Calcium (calc. as CaO) 
Magnesium (calc. as MgO) 
Potassium (calc. as K2O) 
Sodium (calc. as Na20) 
Phosphorus (calc. as P2O5) 
Chlorine (calc. as CI) 
Sulphur (calc. as S) . , 
Iron (calc. as Fe) . , 
Weight per average egg 
Weight per average egg 
Fuel value per average egg 



Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Per cent 
Grams 
Ounces 
Calories 



White 



86.2 
12.3 

0.2 

0.6 

0.015 

0.015 

0.19 

0.21 

0.03 

0.15 

0.196 

0.000 1 

1.2 
17- 



Yolk 



49-5 
15.7 

I.I 

0.2 

0.02 

0.13 

o.i 

i.o 

O.l 

0.157 

0.0085 

17. 
0.6 
60. 



1 Also called glycocoll. 2 Also called glutaminic acid. 

3 The occasional small discrepancies between the data for the entire egg and the 
sum of the data for white and yolk are due to the fact that the two sets of analyses did 
not cover exactlj'^ the same samples. 



EGGS 



137 



The ash constituents of the egg are, like the proteins, evidently 
well adapted to serve as material for the formation of body tissue. 
This may be inferred from the function of eggs in nature and 
from the success attending the use of eggs in diets designed 
especially for tissue building, and has also been demonstrated 
experimentally in laboratory feeding experiments. It will be 
seen from the accompanying tables that the egg is rich in all 
those elements which enter largely into the construction of 
muscle, bone, and blood; also that these are very unequally 
distributed between the white and the yolk. 



Table ii. Nutrients in Eggs as Purchased and Edible Portion 



Constituent 


Entire Egg as 
Purchased 


Entire Edible 
Portion 


Shell Per cent 


II. 2 

65-5 
11.9 

9-3 

0.9 

0.083 

0.013 

0.148 

0.18 

0.33 

0.09 

0.17 

0.0027 
76. 

2.7 
596. 
S6. 

2. 
74. 




Water . . Per cent 


y^'j 


Protein Per cent 

Fat Per cent 


134 
• 10.5 


Ash Per cent 

Calcium (calc. as CaO) . ... Per cent 
Magnesium (calc. as MgO) . . . Per cent 
Potassium (calc. as K2O) . . . Per cent 
Sodium (calc. as Na20) .... Per cent 
Phosphorus (calc. as P2O3) . . . Per cent 

Chlorine (calc. as CI) Per cent 

Sulphur (calc. as S) Per cent 

Iron (calc. as Fe) Per cent 

Weight of loo-calorie portion . . Grams 
Weight of loo-calorie portion . . Ounces 

Fuel value per pound Calories 

Weight per average egg .... Grams 
Weight per average egg .... Ounces 
Fuel value per average egg . . . Calories 


1.0 

0.093 

0.015 

0.165 

0.2 

0.37 

O.IO 

0.19 
0.003 
68. 
2.4 
672. 

SO- 
1.8 

74- 



The yolk is very much richer than the white in the calcium, 
phosphorus, and iron compounds which (for reasons explained 
in Chapter I) are especially significant in human nutrition. 



138 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



The phosphorus of the egg, and especially of the yolk, is pres- 
ent chiefly as phosphoproteins and phosphorized fats (" phos- 
phatids," " phospholipines ") in which form it is believed to 
be of greater food value, at least for the growing organism, than 
in the form of simple phosphates. (See Chemistry of Food 
and Nutrition, Chapter X.) 

The iron of the egg yolk is also present in organic combination, 
chiefly if not entirely as a constituent of protein. Bunge 
separated from egg yolk a protein substance having the com- 
position : 



Carbon . 
Hydrogen 
Nitrogen . 
Sulphur . 
Phosphorus 
Iron . . 
Oxygen . 



Per cent 
42.11 

6.08 
14-73 

o-SS 

519 

0.29 

31-05 



This appeared to be the substance which during incubation 
is changed into haemoglobin and for this reason Bunge named it 
hmmatogen. This is believed to be typical of the iron-protein 
compounds which, in a well-balanced diet, furnish all the iron 
needed for normal nutrition, and which apparently cannot be 
satisfactorily replaced by the iron of medicines and mineral 
waters. The function of these latter forms of iron seems to be 
that of a drug to stimulate the blood-making organs in the body, 
while the iron-protein compounds of the food furnish the material 
from which the haemoglobin of the blood is actually made. The 
richness of the egg yolk in this food-iron should therefore be 
recognized as adding much to the food value of the egg. 

The calcium compounds of the egg have been less studied 
than the iron and phosphorus compounds, perhaps because the 
utilization of calcium in the body seems to be less dependent 
upon the form in which it exists in the food than in the case of 
iron or phosphorus. It is certain that the calcium of the Qgg 



EGGS 



139 



is well utilized and the richness of egg-yolk in calcium con- 
stitutes another important factor in the resemblance between 
eggs and milk as food. 

The sulphur content of eggs is high — higher even than would 
be anticipated from the protein content, since the chief protein 
of the white of egg (ovalbumin) is particularly rich in sulphur. 
This abundance of sulphur probably has its function as a source 
of supply for the sulphur-rich substances of the skin, claws, and 
feathers of the chick. From the standpoint of human nutrition, 
such a high sulphur content is not altogether an advantage, 
since it results in a considerable preponderance of the acid- 
forming elements (see Chapter I) over the base-forming elements 
of the egg. This makes ^the egg an " acid-forming " foo d. In 
this respect the egg is similar" to meat and unsimilar to milk. 
In other respects, notwithstanding the fact that milk contains 
about 5 per cent of carbohydrate and eggs almost none,^ there 
is an essential similarity between milk and eggs in those features 
of their chemical nature which are most directly connected with 
their food value. 

Nutritive Value and Place in the Diet 

That the egg is a food of high nutritive value will have been 
inferred from the above discussion of its chemical composition, 
and the nature of the nutrients which it contains. 

The digestibility of eggs has been studied experimentally but 
not in such detail as with some other articles of food. The 
results indicate that egg-protein is digested and absorbed to 
practically the same extent as milk or meat protein, about 97-98 
per cent ; and that the fat of egg is digested about as thoroughly 
as milk fat and rather more thoroughly than meat fat. It is 
probable that eggs " soft cooked " at a temperature below that 
of boiling water are the most readily and rapidly digested, but 

1 It is estimated that hens' eggs contain 0.25 to 0.5 per cent of glycogen, which, 
however, is not shown in the usual analyses. 



I40 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the ultimate thoroughness of digestion does not seem to be greatly 
influenced by the method of cooking. Thorough mastication 
is naturally most important in the case of eggs which have been 
'' hard boiled " or cooked at a higher temperature. 

Nutritive value. There can be no doubt that the nutrients 
of the egg when absorbed from the digestive tract are of ex- 
ceptional value in the nutrition of the body tissues. The rich- 
ness of eggs in protein and fat and in compounds of phosphorus, 
iron, and calcium, all in forms especially adapted for conversion 
into body tissue, make the food value much greater than a com- 
parison based simply on amounts of protein and energy would 
indicate. 

Eggs are more nearly interchangeable with milk in nutritive 
value than is any other food, and they are richer than milk in 
iron. On account of this richness in iron (as well as the nature 
of the proteins and fats), eggs are among the first foods to be 
added to the milk diet of the young child, and if circumstances 
should arise in which no form of milk enters into the child's 
diet, the egg will come nearer furnishing a satisfactory substitute 
than will any other food. Normally, however, eggs should 
only supplement the milk of children's dietaries and should not 
be allowed to displace the milk to any appreciable extent. For 
the same reasons that it is adapted to the needs of the growing 
organism, the egg is also a very valuable food for adults who 
need to be " built up " ; hence eggs are usually prominent in well- 
arranged dietaries for undernourished anemic people and espe- 
cially for tuberculosis patients. 

In addition to their well-known high nutritive value, eggs are 
popular for other reasons. They are easily cooked in a variety \ 
of ways and by their admixture it becomes possible to make many \ 
modifications in the texture, flavor, and appearance of other [ 
food materials. Doubtless it is largely because the egg facili- 
tates so many things in cookery which would otherwise be diffi- 
cult or impracticable, that the demand for eggs keeps the price 



EGGS 141 

almost always higher than their food value, for general use, 
would seem to warrant. We have seen, however, that the real 
food value of eggs is much greater than a mere statement of the 
protein and fat content and energy value would indicate. When 
all the factors of food value are taken into account, a dozen eggs 
may fairly be considered worth as much in the dietary as two 
pounds at least of meat, so that, except in times of special 
scarcity, eggs are apt to be more economical than meat though 
not so economical as milk. 

Trade Practices in the Egg Imd«stry 

The great value of eggs as food, the importance of keeping 
them in the best possible condition until consumed^ and the 
desirability of preserving a considerable proportion of the eggs 
produced in time of abundance in order that undue scarcity 
at the time of minimum production may be avoided, make the 
trade practices in the egg industry a matter of large public 
importance. 

For the individual consumer who wishes to preserve eggs 
when cheap, for use in time of scarcity, the best method is 
probably to keep the eggs immersed in a solution of water glass 
(sodium silicate) in a cool place. The water glass is usually 
purchased in the form of a concentrated (sirupy) solution of the 
sodium silicate which is diluted ten times its volume by addition 
of pure water. According to Bartlett, the diluted solution 
should not be strongly alkaline, and should have a specific 
gravity of about 1.045, in which case, fresh eggs readily sink and 
remain submerged. The silicate seals the pores of the eggshell 
and so prevents the entrance of organisms and greatly retards 
the passage of gases, so that oxygen is practically excluded. If 
the silicate is of the right composition and the eggs are kept com- 
pletely submerged in a cool place, the eggs should remain with- 
out apparent change in weight, composition, or flavor for many 



142 FOOD PRODUCTS 

months, provided the eggs are clean, sound, and fresh when 
placed in the solution. Unless the consumer knows the origin 
of the eggs and is sure of their freshness at the start, the attempt 
to preserve cheap eggs by household methods is apt to result in 
disappointment. 

Whether they are to be used as soon as they reach the market, 
or preserved on a small scale in the household or on a large scale 
in cold-storage warehouses, it is in any case highly important 
that eggs be promptly and properly collected and handled so 
as to reach the consumer or the storage warehouse in good 
condition. 

At the present time are offered to the consumer, living in 
a large city, eggs of all degrees of freshness, from those which 
are guaranteed to have been laid within 24 hours of delivery 
to those which have been weeks in the hands of farmers and 
country merchants and perhaps after that several months in 
cold storage. 

Naturally the poultryman who makes eggs his chief crop is 
likely to market them much more systematically than is the 
general farmer who produces only a few more eggs than he uses. 
If a local egg dealer visits the farms frequently, he may be able 
to get the eggs to a refrigerated warehouse while still fresh, 
and if subsequent shipment is in refrigerator cars and storage 
always at low temperatures, the eggs may travel hundreds 
of miles and remain weeks or months in the hands of 
dealers without serious deterioration. At present, however, 
the bulk of the eggs going into wholesale trade is not so well 
handled. 

Pennington and Pierce estimate that there is a total loss of 
7.8 per cent of the eggs marketed, as a result of improper han- 
dling, and of course this must be accompanied by a great decline 
in value of a large proportion of the eggs not totally lost. Irreg- 
ular gathering of eggs on the farm and storage at too high a 
temperature result in much deterioration. There is also apt 



EGGS 



143 



to be delay and exposure to too high a temperature in the ship- 
ment of the eggs from the small dealer to the large packer, since 
eggs in " less than car lots " (technically known as "1. c. l.'s ") 
are apt to be handled as ordinary local freight. 

When the eggs reach the packer, they are cooled and candled. 
On the basis of their appearance on candling, they are classified 
as " fresh," " weak," " spots," and " rotten " (see Fig. 8) and 
sometimes still other categories. The marketable eggs are 
graded according to size, cleanliness, and to some extent fresh- 
ness. The eggs are then packed in cases or crates, usually hold- 
ing thirty dozen each, and shipped to a commission man at the 
market center from whom they pass to the wholesaler or jobber, 
and finally (perhaps after being kept in a cold-storage warehouse) 
to the retailer. 

Some of the methods which are being employed for the im- 
provement of conditions in the general egg trade are : better care 
of eggs on the farm and prompt delivery to egg dealers who will 
purchase for cash and base the price upon the quality of the eggs 
so that the farmer who uses good methods will profit accordingly ; 
early cooling and consistent maintenance of low temperature 
somewhat as in the marketing of milk ; reduction or elimina- 
tion of middlemen, even to the extent of direct contracts between 
the farmer and consumer for regular shipments either in dozens 
by parcel post or in crates by express. For the latter purpose 
crates holding 15 dozen (half the usual commercial size) are 
now being made. 

When direct contracts between producer and consumer are 
not practicable, it has been found that the losses and deteriora- 
tion involved in the old methods may be largely eliminated by 
making use of the facilities of the dairy industry for the prompt 
marketing of the farmers' eggs. Such marketing of eggs 
" through the creamery " has been described by Slocum ^ as 
follows : 

1 Farmers' Bulletin 445, United States Department of Agriculture. 




Fig. 8. — Apoearance of different grades of eggs before the candle. ^, fresh 
egg ; B, shrunken (old) egg ; C, " spot " egg (fungous growth) ; D, rotten egg. 



EGGS 



145 



How Eggs are Marketed through a Minnesota Creamery 

The marketing of eggs in this particular instance is accomplished through 
a creamery in the northern part of Minnesota. Because of the fact that 
farmers must take their milk or cream to the creamery at frequent and 
regular intervals, it is an agency especially well suited to obtaining the egg 
m a fresh condition from the farmer. As it seems that there must be other 
creameries so situated that they could readily put their eggs directly in the 
hands of a retailer in a fair-sized city with only a short shipment, it seems 
well to describe in detail the methods used in this case. The volume of eggs 
handled in this way would, of course, probably never become so great as to 
make them a factor in the mass of eggs now handled commercially. 

As stated before, the eggs are brought by the farmer directly to the cream- 
ery when bringing his milk. While this particular creamery is privately 
owned, it is essentially cooperative, in that its owner and manager is a far- 
sighted business man with other interests in the village, and he sees that the 
increased agricultural prosperity of the community will eventually be to his 
advantage. In consequence he is content to take a small profit for himself 
and to pay the farmers as liberally as possible for both their cream and eggs. 
Any patron of the creamery of any other person who will sign a required 
agreement may market his eggs in this way. At present about one hundred 
and thirty-five farmers are taking advantage of this method of disposing of 
their eggs. These egg patrons are scattered over quite a wide territory, 
one man finding it to his advantage to drive in 14 miles with his eggs. 

The agreement reads as follows : 

For the privilege of selling eggs to the creamery company and getting a 
market established for guaranteed fresh eggs, I, the undersigned, hereby 
pledge myself to comply in every way with the following rules : 

I agree to deliver eggs at the creamery that will not be to exceed 8 days old 
and to be picked in (gathered) twice every day. 

Eggs to be of uniform size (no under size or over size eggs). 

Eggs to be clean and to be kept in a cool, dry cellar. 

Brown eggs to be put in one carton and white in another and so marked. 

Each egg to be stamped on the side and carton to be stamped on the 
top. 

I agree not to sell any eggs that I have marked with the creamery com- 
pany's trade-mark to anyone else but the creamery company, and to return 
stamps and other supplies that have been furnished, in case I should decide 
to discontinue to sell eggs to the creamery company. 

It is readily discernible from the provisions of this agreement that the 
aim is to get a grade of uniform, clean, dependable eggs, of reasonable fresh- 
L 



146 FOOD PRODUCTS 

ness. It might seem that requiring delivery once in eight days would not be 
frequent enough, but the nights in Minnesota even in summer are said to be 
usually cool, and this condition, together with the gathering twice a day and 
the storage in dry, cool cellars, must account for the fact that no complaints 
have been received on the score of staleness. 

To every person signing the agreement quoted above a small rubber 
stamp is given for use in stamping the eggs and the container. This stamp 
plays an important part in the system of marketing. It contains the name 
of the creamery, the creamery brand, and a serial number for each producer. 
By means of the stamp which thus appears on each egg and on each package 
it is possible to trace the product back to the individual producer, and in 
consequence to place the blame for any carelessness or poor quality where 
it belongs. A repetition of any offense of this nature may be sufficient 
ground for refusing to handle the eggs of that particular producer. 

When the creamery patron signs the agreement, and at such times there- 
after as may be necessary, he is furnished with a supply of cartons or con- 
tainers in addition to the rubber stamp. These cartons are the ordinary 
one-dozen size pasteboard egg boxes which are so shaped that they may be 
packed in a regular 30-dozen egg case. 

The farmer takes these cartons home, and as the eggs are gathered each 
day, the clean, good-sized eggs are stamped and placed in them. When a 
carton is filled it is stamped on !ts upper side just the same as the eggs. 

When the farmer comes in to the creamery with his milk or cream he brings 
along as many cartons or dozens of eggs as he has. The man in charge of 
the creamery takes these eggs, examines the packages, and gives the farmer 
a check for the eggs delivered that day. The cartons are then packed in 
substantial returnable 30-dozen egg cases and shipped to market by express. 
The shipping charges are paid by the consignee. The labor and cost of 
handling the eggs at the creamery are thus reduced to a minimum. The 
eggs are never candled, reliance being placed on the farmer to bring in good 
eggs. The cost of handling the eggs, including the cost of the carton, which 
is about one-half cent, is estimated to be i cent a dozen. The farmer in turn 
feels bound to be particular, knowing that any carelessness can be traced 
back to him and realizing that he thus jeopardizes his chances of continuing 
to dispose of his eggs in this manner. 

The advantage of this system of marketing, to the farmers or producers, 
has come about in two ways : First, it has increased the price paid to them by 
compelling an improvement in quality, by selling more directly to the con- 
sumer, and by establishing a reputation for the eggs sold under the creamery 
brand. Second, it has brought about the realization that poultry raising by 
the general farmer is profitable, that the income from this source is consider- 



EGGS 



147 



able, and that it is capable of increase by keeping better fowls and giving 
them better care. 

In this particular Minnesota village during the year 1907, which was just 
previous to marketing the eggs by the new method, the eggs received by 
the storekeepers hardly more than supplied the local demand. In fact, 
during the whole of that year only 15 cases, or 450 dozen eggs, were shipped 
out of the village. During the year 1909 nearly $4,000 was paid out by the 
creamery for eggs, all of which were shipped away. The impetus which has 
been given the poultry business during the short time this method of market- 
ing has been practiced may be judged from the statement of the proprietor 
of the creamery that from present indications he expected the egg business 
to double or treble during the year 19 10. 

The publication of this account by the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture in 19 10 gave an impetus to this method of 
marketing eggs and it is said to be extending rapidly. 

Special attention to the handling of eggs is not a new project. 
In Denmark a farmers' cooperative egg export association was 
organized in 1895 ^o better the market for Danish eggs by 
guaranteeing that eggs delivered under the association's trade- 
mark are strictly fresh and clean. This association handled 
in 1909 over 9,000,000 pounds of eggs. In Canada both the 
Dominion government and the Quebec government have taken 
up the matter and are doing what they can to forward similar 
cooperative work. In Australia one state has a system by 
which twenty-one associations of farmers each maintain a 
center at which a Secretary receives, tests, and grades the eggs, 
pays cash for them at the current market rate, and sends them 
to the government cold stores, receiving one cent per dozen eggs 
for his services. The government does the marketing and at 
the end of each quarter any profits are divided among those 
who supply the eggs (Powell). For several years the United 
States Department of Agriculture has been working through 
both the Bureau of Animal Industry and the Bureau of Chemistry 
for the improvement of the egg trade and now through the newly 
established Office of Markets, will doubtless be able to con- 



148 FOOD PRODUCTS 

tribute still more toward the solution of the problems of this 
industry. 

Cold Storage and its Regulation 

The cold storage industry as now understood is a relatively 
recent development. While statistics of the industry in its 
earlier stages are not available, it is generally accepted that 
only since about 1893 have the quantities of food materials 
placed in cold storage been large enough to have an appreciable 
effect upon market conditions. 

It. should be kept in mind that statements regarding the 
quantity of food " put in cold storage " do not include food 
kept cold while in preparation or transportation or while in the 
hands of the retailer, but refer, as a rule, specifically to the busi- 
ness conducted by cold storage warehousemen who rent space 
for the storage of food, which the owners wish to withhold from 
the market for a longer or shorter time. It is obvious that the 
owner's chief object in thus withholding his goods from the mar- 
ket is to await an increase of price; it should be equally 
plain that the owner cannot wish to hold the food so long as to 
have it lose value through deterioration. Hence the influence 
of cold storage in the food industry is more largely economic 
than hygienic, though occasionally there may be cases in which 
food becomes unwholesome in cold storage, either through being 
stored too long, or under improper conditions, or because the 
food was not suitable for storage in the first place. 

Of the total egg production of the United States it is estimated 
that about one seventh (13.5 to 15 per cent) are placed in cold 
storage in the sense explained above, i.e. are sent to storage 
warehouses to await higher prices instead of being sent directly 
to the retail trade. Referring to the estimates of egg production 
quoted earlier in this chapter, it will be seen how great is the 
quantity represented by one seventh of this total. The cold 
storage warehouses are apt to be located in close proximity to 



EGGS 



149 



some large market. On the occasion of an official investigation 
by a committee of the State Legislature it was reported that 
hundreds of millions of eggs were found in the cold-storage ware- 
houses of Hudson County, New Jersey, awaiting a rise of price 
in New York City. 

That egg production is much larger and prices much lower in 
spring and early summer than in autumn and winter is a well- 




FiG. 9. — Relative quantities of eggs put in cold storage each month (by a Chicago 
firm). Reproduced by permission from Taylor's Prices oj Farm Products 
(Bulletin 209 of the Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station), 

recognized condition which recurs regularly year after year. 
The supply of eggs received by a large city is more nearly in 
proportion to the surplus production than to the actual produc- 
tion of the large areas from which the supply comes. 

While the price of storage eggs is always below that of fresh 
eggs, it usually reaches a point sufficiently above the prices 
ruling in spring to yield a profit to the owner after paying the 
warehouse charges and insurance, and allowing for interest on 
the money value of the eggs. .It is of course in anticipation of 



150 FOOD PRODUCTS 

this profit that eggs are placed in storage at the time of greatest 
abundance in the spring and early summer. 

According to statistics of the United States Department of 
Agriculture four fifths (79.4 per cent) of all the eggs placed in 
cold storage are stored during April, May, and June. In the 
Chicago market, where large quantities of eggs are received 
from the Southwest as well as from the surrounding country, 
storage begins in March and (normally) nearly all the eggs stored 
are placed in storage during a period of four months. The 
relative quantities of eggs put into storage each month for a year 
by one Chicago firm are shown in Fig. 9. 

Since midsummer eggs do not keep well, few eggs are placed 
in storage in July and August even though the price may con- 
tinue low. 

Of the eggs placed in storage it appears from the statistics 
of the United States Department of Agriculture that only 22.6 
per cent are taken out within 4 months of receipt, but that 75.8 
per cent are taken out within 7 months, and 99.9 per cent 
within 10 months. Thus it appears that more than three 
fourths of all the eggs which are stored remain in storage over 
4 months, but practically none remain in storage longer than 
10 months. The average length of storage of eggs was found 
to be 5.9 months. The total cost of storage was estimated at 
0.57 cent per dozen per month or 3.5 cents per dozen for the 
average length of storage. In general the stored eggs must 
sell, as Professor Taylor has pointed out, at a sufficient 
advance on their original price to pay all the costs of storage, 
and in addition " enough profit to induce a business man to give 
his attention to this business instead of doing something else." 

In the case of eggs as of other perishable foods the introduction 
of cold storage facilities has changed considerably the relative 
monthly consumption and made it more uniform throughout 
the year. Cold storage also tends toward greater uniformity 
of prices throughout the year, keeping up prices in the season 



EGGS 151 

of maximum production, and diminishing somewhat the in- 
crease of price which occurs at the season of natural scarcity. 
The cold storage industry tends to raise the average or annual 
price level both because the costs of storage must in the long 
run be paid by the consumers and, because as the result of the 
steadying effect of cold storage upon prices a larger proportion 
of consumers now use eggs throughout the year, so that there 
is a much larger volume of business during the season of high 
prices. So far as this last factor is concerned it may fairly be 
considered that the standard of living is raised with the cost. 

The conclusion drawn from the statistical investigation con- 
ducted by the United States Department of Agriculture (1909- 
191 1) was that there is no just ground for complaint against 
the men who keep foods in cold storage except in so far as they 
sometimes speculate. Since the power to withhold goods from 
the market obviously constitutes a temptation to try to raise 
prices by creating an artificial scarcity (or exaggerating a 
scarcity which already exists), it was recommended that storage 
warehouses be required to make monthly reports to the govern- 
ment and that official estimates of the quantities of foods in 
storage be made public each month somewhat as the govern- 
ment crop reports now are. As yet there has been no action 
upon this recommendation, nor does the Federal government 
set any time limit upon cold storage. Several of the states 
however have laws which set such limits. Thus the laws passed 
by New York and New Jersey in 191 1 limit the time of storage 
to ten months except in some particular instances. 

Effect of cold storage upon eggs. Meats and poultry when 
stored are often kept hard frozen, but this of course is not 
practicable for eggs. Eggs are best stored at temperatures just 
above their freezing point, which of course is below that of 
water. From 29° to 32° F. is the usual temperature for egg 
storage. At such temperatures the eggs, if kept in moist air, 
become musty or moldy. To prevent this, the air in well- 



152 FOOD PRODUCTS 

regulated storage rooms is kept moderately dry, as the result 
of which moisture evaporates through the shell and the contents 
of the egg shrink, the size of the air chamber becoming larger. 
This condition is detected by candling as already explained. 
Other results of long storage are an increased tendency of the 
egg albumen to adhere to the shell membrane, and sometimes 
a slight crystallization of certain of the components of the egg. 
One of the earliest prosecutions by the government after the 
Food and Drugs Act became effective in 1907 was against a 
dealer in Washington, D. C, for seUing eggs " misbranded in 
that they were sold as strictly fresh when not so," the evidence 
against the eggs being " that the albumen clung to the shell 
membrane, that the air chamber was greatly enlarged, and that 
minute rosette crystals were found in the albumen and larger 
rosette crystals in the yolk." 

During storage the white of egg loses moisture not only by 
evaporation through the shell, but also by an osmotic transfer 
of water from the white to the yolk. Greenlee ^ has studied 
this point quantitatively and proposed a formula by means of 
which the length of time an egg had been in storage could be 
judged from the water content of the white if the temperature 
and humidity of the storage room were known. 

As a result of the transfer of water from the white to the yolk 
of the egg, the latter expands somewhat and the membrane 
which separates the yolk from the white is stretched and 
weakened and may break and permit a spreading of the yolk 
into the white, especially if the egg is carelessly handled. 

These results of storage may interfere seriously with the ap- 
pearance and behavior of the eggs when boiled or poached, 
and eggs showing these properties are rated considerably below 
fresh eggs in market value, but it should be noted that none 
of these effects is indicative of decomposition or unwholesome- 
ness or indeed of anything but purely physical changes. 

^ Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 34, page 539. 



EGGS 



153 



That slight chemical changes may occur during the time that 
eggs are ordinarily held in storage seems probable in view of the 
somewhat different flavor and strength of white in fresh and 
storage eggs. Normally the change in flavor is no different from 
that which takes place in a much shorter time when the eggs 
are kept under household conditions. Just why the white of 
the storage egg shows somewhat less strength than that of the 
fresh egg is not entirely clear, but may be due to slight self- 
digestion {" autolysis ") such as occurs in animal organs and 
tissues generally when removed from the body and protected 
from the action of microorganisms. 

The slight changes in flavor and in behavior on cooking and 
the fact that storage eggs are sometimes fraudulently sold as 
fresh in the retail trade are sufficient to explain the prejudice 
against cold storage eggs which exists among many if not most 
consumers. But these properties should not be confused 
with those which are indicative of decomposition and unwhole- 
someness. As regards wholesomeness, there is no presumption 
against the cold storage egg as such. In general, storage eggs 
may be regarded as less desirable than those which are in reality 
" strictly fresh," but superior to many of the so-called " fresh " 
eggs which have not had the benefit of refrigeration. 

Many species of organisms, both bacteria and molds, have 
been found in decaying eggs. In general the spoilage which 
takes place rapidly at high temperatures is apt to be due chiefly 
to bacteria, while the mustiness which develops slowly at low 
temperatures is often due more largely to molds. An initial 
infection with bacteria may occur while the egg is still within 
the oviduct of the hen ; or organisms may gain entrance after 
the egg is laid, especially if it be allowed to lie in an unclean nest. 
The properties of the white and yolk with reference to bacterial 
growth are summarized by Buchanan as follows : ^ Egg .white 
has been shown to possess distinct antiseptic properties. Many 

* Household Bacteriology, page 484. 



154 FOOD PRODUCTS 

species of bacteria are quickly destroyed when mixed with it. 
This is not true of the yolk, for this is a favorable growth medium 
for many species of bacteria. It is not probable that this 
bactericidal property of egg white persists indefinitely, but it is 
doubtless responsible for the fact that the egg keeps as well as 
it does. 

Certain types of spoilage are due to developing embryos and 
are therefore avoided in the case of infertile eggs. 

Frozen and Dried Eggs 

Freezing and drying are the two general methods of preserving 
eggs when removed from their shells. Pennington and also 
Stiles and Bates, of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
have made special investigations of frozen and dried eggs and 
the following is based chiefly on their findings. Since the centers 
of egg production and egg consumption are now so widely 
separated, it is believed that, properly conducted, the freezing 
and drying of eggs is an industry which is economically desirable, 
especially so long as the prevalent methods of handling bring 
to the dealers in the producing sections great numbers of eggs 
which are wholesome but not available for long hauls. An- 
other important consideration is that frozen eggs can be 
stored at very much lower temperatures than can eggs in the 
shell. 

As Pennington points out, the handling of eggs which have 
been removed from their shells is somewhat analogous to the 
handling of milk, and like the milk industry, should be char- 
acterized by the most scrupulous cleanliness throughout. As 
in the case of milk, the sources of contamination are best demon- 
strated by bacteriological methods and can in the main be 
eliminated by the adoption of such precautions as a knowledge 
of sanitation would suggest — cleanliness of surroundings and 
workers, frequent cleansing and drying of the fingers, use of 
appliances and containers which have been sterilized by means 



EGGS 



I5S 



of live steam, prompt freezing or drying of the egg after removal 
from the shell, etc. A complicating factor in this industry is 
that eggs do not come directly from the farm to the breaking 
establishment and even though the eggs be sorted by candling 
before going to the breakers, some of the eggs which have passed 
the candler prove to be distinctly bad when broken. In legit- 
imate establishments, such an egg is rejected and the receptacle 
into which it was broken as well as the fingers of the breaker 
are rinsed before being used again. Mere rinsing, however, is 
not sufficient to prevent the contamination of the next egg, since 
large numbers of bacteria from the bad egg remain in the re- 
ceptacle even though it looks and smells clean. Pennington rec- 
ommends that all the fittings of the room in which eggs are 
broken and all the appliances and receptacles used be of metal 
or other non-porous material adapted to easy and thorough clean- 
ing and steam sterilization. Each egg should be cracked on a 
steel blade and broken into a smooth clear glass cup. When 
a bad egg is encountered, the blade on which, and the cup into 
which, it was broken are at once replaced and sent away to be 
thoroughly washed and steam-sterilized. It is further recom- 
mended that all eggs received by the breaking establishment be 
first chilled below 40° F. for 24 hours, then candled and broken 
in cooled rooms and the liquid egg, while still cold (preferably 
below 45° F.), sent in its final container to a quick freezer. 

It is hardly necessary to say that such precautions have not 
always been observed in the past. Stiles and Bates describe 
the commercial process as they found it in 1911 in Bulletin 158 
of the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of 
Agriculture. 

Methods of drying eggs. Eggs which have been removed from 
the shell may, instead of being frozen, be dried and preserved 
in solid form. According to Stiles and Bates, the drying.expels 
over nine tenths of the water originally present and one pound 
of the dry product represents the solids of from 36 to 40 average- 



156 FOOD PRODUCTS 

sized eggs. They describe as follows four general methods 
found in commercial use : 

Instantaneous method. In many respects the instantaneous method is 
highly satisfactory from the sanitary point of view because of the quickness of 
drying. The high temperature used probably destroys or retards the develop- 
ment of the less resistant organisms present in the liquid material. The 
liquid eggs are sprayed into a heated chamber at a temperature of about 
160° F., where they are immediately reduced to a fine powder which is carried 
on by currents of air through cotton bags or other filtering devices, on which 
it is retained and finally falls down into bins. The powdered product 
usually contains from 3 to 5 per cent of moisture, and is ready to be packed in 
suitable containers for sale. 

Belt method. As suggested by the name, the belt method consists in dry- 
ing the liquid egg on an endless belt, made of zinc or galvanized iron strips. 
The belts vary in length according to the size of the rooms and amount of 
output. The liquid egg may be held in vats and artificially refrigerated 
with circulating brine, or the feeding device of the drying machine may be 
equipped with brine pipes to keep the product cold. The liquid egg is 
applied to the revolving belt through a feeding device which permits a thin 
film to spread evenly over its surface. This drying belt is inclosed within 
suitably constructed chambers into which heated filtered air is introduced. 
The temperature of the inclosed air surrounding the egg is about 140° F., 
and the time of drying can be largely governed by regulating the temperature 
of the air, the length of the belt, and the rate of its revolution. Each film 
of egg applied is usually dried in one complete revolution, and there are a 
large number of such films wound around the belt before separating the 
product from the drier. This is done by adjusting suitably-tipped metal 
scrapers in contact with the belt so as to remove the dried product, which 
then falls into drawers or bins. It requires from one and one-half to two 
hours to complete the first stage of the drying. 

The product is next spread on wire screens and further dried by placing 
it in a " finisher," which is a large metal cabinet kept at 100° to 110° F. 
After remaining in the finisher two or three hours, the dried product is sifted 
and graded according to the size of the flake, or it may be ground to a uni- 
form size or powdered. The finished product usually contains from 3 to 8 
per cent of moisture. The goods are packed in suitable containers and placed 
in storage at low temperatures pending sale. 

Disk method. The disk method consists of exposing the liquid egg in a 
vat to a series of large slate disks arranged on a slowly revolving shaft or axis. 
, There are serious objections to this method as ordinarily practiced, since the 



EGGS IC7 

egg is not fully protected from the outside air, and more frequent handling is 
necessary, thus subjecting it to greater exposure to contamination. Each 
drying requires several dippings, which are treated at about ioo° F., the hot 
air being blown under the disks from the side. A much longer time is 
required to dry eggs by this method ; the machine may be run all day and 
the material further dried at room temperature during the night, to be 
scraped off the following morning and subsequently treated like other 
dried-egg products. 

Tray or hoard method. The tray or board constitutes one of the simplest 
methods of drying and is perhaps the least satisfactory. Liquid eggs are 
spread by hand over boards or trays and placed on shelves in especially con- 
structed cabinets. Hot air is forced through this cabinet, entering on one 
side and escaping on the other. It requires about six hours to make one 
drying at a temperature of iio° to 120° F. 

Several films are applied in each drying, and the whole coat is allowed to 
dry further overnight at room temperature, to be removed on the following 
morning, when it is graded and packed for market. 

From a sanitary viewpoint this method is highly unsatisfactory on ac- 
count of the accumulation of egg material in the cracks or crevices of the 
boards and trays, which are not washed, but simply " cleaned " by scraping 
off the residual matter. 

Stiles and Bates as the result of a large number of experiments 
to determine the bacterial content of frozen and dried products 
from eggs of different grades when made and stored under known 
conditions reached the following conclusions : 

(i) Under normal conditions, strictly fresh eggs contain few 
if any bacteria, and no appreciable numbers of B. coli in i cc. 
quantities. 

(2) Frozen egg products prepared in the laboratory in Wash- 
ington from second-grade eggs comprising " undersized," 
'' cracks," " dirties," and " weak eggs " generally show a total 
bacterial content of less than 1,000,000 organisms per gram, 
while dried eggs prepared from the same grades usually contain 
a total bacterial content of less than 4,000,000 organisms per 
gram, both kinds containing but a very small number of B. coli; 
from a bacteriological standpoint they are considered an 
edible product. 



158 FOOD PRODUCTS 

(3) Frozen products made from " light spots," ^' heavy spots," 
" blood rings," and " rots " show bacterial counts generally 
ranging from about 1,000,000 to 1,000,000,000, while dried eggs 
made from the same grades usually contain from 4,000,000 to 
more than 1,000,000,000 organisms per gram with a relatively 
high proportion of B. coli and streptococci in both the frozen 
and dried material, indicating an unwholesome article, unfit 
for food, and only useful for tanning leathers, or for other 
technical purposes. 

It should be noted, however, that testimony offered in the 
Federal courts, in a case in which condemnation of a shipment 
of frozen eggs was contested by the owner, tended to show that 
market eggs such as are accepted without question as food may 
contain many more bacteria, both in total numbers and of the 
B. coli type, than would be expected from the results found in 
the government laboratories. 

The frozen eggs in question contained large numbers of bacteria, 
a considerable proportion of which were of the B. coli type. 
The eggs, however, showed no taint in taste or odor and no bad 
effects when eaten. The ammonia content, which was held 
to be the best chemical evidence of decomposition, was about 
the same as in ordinary market eggs, viz.^ about 3 partg in 100,000. 

The Federal court decided in favor of the egg company, 
holding that the government had not shown the eggs to be 
filthy, decomposed, putrid, nor unfit for human food. 

REFERENCES 
I 

Atwater and Bryant. Composition of American Food Materials. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 
Bulletin 28. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

KoNiG. Chemie der menschlichen Nahrungs- und Genussmittel. 

Langworthy. Eggs and their Uses as Food. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 128. 



EGGS 



159 



Leach. F()od Inspection and Analysis. 
Powell. Cooperation in Agriculture. 

Taylor. The Prices of Farm Products. Wisconsin Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 209. 
TiBBLES. Foods : Their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 
Watson. Farm Poultry. 
Wiley. Foods and Their Adulteration. 

II 

Osborne and Campbell. Proteins of Egg Yolk and Egg White. Journal 
American Chemical Society, Vol. 22, pages 413-422, 422-450 (1900). 

Prall. Preservation of Eggs. Zeitschrif t Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und 
Genussmittel, Vol. 14, pages 445-481 (1907). 

Wiley, Pennington, Stiles, Howard, and Cook. Effects of Cold Storage 
on Eggs, Quail and Chickens. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 115 (1908). 

Hastings. The Egg Trade of the United States. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 140 (1909). 

Slocum. Marketing Eggs through the Creamery. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 26th Annual Report, 
pages 239-246 (1909). 

Pennington. A Chemical and Bacteriological Study of Fresh Eggs. 
Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 7, pages 109-132 (1910). 

Pennington and Pierce. The Effect of the Present Method of Handling 
Eggs on the Industry and on the Product. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1910, pages 461-476 (1910). 

Berger. Preservation of Eggs. Journal Industrial and Engineering 
Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 493-495 (1911)- 

Hepburn. Handling, Transportation and Storage of Perishable Foodstuffs. 
Journal of the Franklin Institute, Vol. 171, pages 585-598; Vol. 172, 
pages i73-i;3, 369-398 (1911)- 

Lamon. The Handling and Marketing of Eggs. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1911, pages 467-478 (1911)- 

Barbieri. The Coloring Matter of Egg Yolk. Comptes rendus, Vol. 154, 
pages 1726-1729 (1912). 

Bartlett. Eggs preserved with Silicate of Soda. Original Communica- 
tions, Eighth International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, 
pages 51-56 (191 2). ^ • 

Bryce. Physics of Refrigeration. American Journal of Public Health, 
Vol. 2, pages 829-833 (191 2). 



l6o FOOD PRODUCTS 

Greenlee. Osmotic Activity in the Egg of the Common Fowl. Journal of 

the American Chemical Society, Vol. 34, pages 539-545 (191 2). 
McCoLLUM, Halpin, and Drescher. Synthesis of Lecithin in the Hen 

and the Character of the Lecithin Produced. Journal of Biological 

Chemistry, Vol. 13, pages 219-224 (191 2). 
Pennington. Practical Suggestions for the Preparation of Frozen and 

Dried Eggs. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 

Chemistry, Circular 98 (191 2). 
Pennington and Robertson. A Study of the Enzymes of the Egg of 

the Common Fowl. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 

of Chemistry, Circular 104 (191 2). 
Report of the Commission to Investigate the Subject of Cold Storage of 

Food. Boston: State, 191 2, pages 308. 
Rettger and Sperry. Antiseptic and Bactericidal Properties of Egg 

White. Journal of Medical Research, Vol. 26, pages 55-64 (191 2). 
Stiles and Bates. A Bacteriological Study of Shell, Frozen and Desic- 
cated Eggs. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 

Chemistry, Bulletin 158 (191 2). 
Wilson. Economic Results of Cold Storage. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 1, pages 23-32 (191 2). 
De Keghel. Industrial Preservation of Eggs. Revue chimie industrielle, 

Vol. 24, pages 12-18; Abstracted in Chemical Abstracts, Vol. 7, page 

3170 (1913). 
Holmes. Cold Storage and Prices. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Bureau of Statistics, Bulletin loi (19 13). 
Eppler. Investigations on the Phosphatids of Egg Yolk. Zeitschrift 

fiir physiologische Chemie, Vol. 87, pages 233-254 (1913). 
Trier. Hydrolyses of Egg Lecithin. Zeitschrift fiir physiologische Chemie, 

Vol. 86, pages 141-152 (1913)- 
Behre and Frerichs. Control of Trade Practices in the Egg Industry. 

Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 27, 

pages 38-59 (1914). 
Pennington. A Study of Commercial Eggs. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Bulletin 51 (1914). 



CHAPTER VI 
MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 

The industry of slaughtering and meat packing is the largest 
manufacturing industry in the United States, its value of product 
for the year 1909 being estimated by the United States Census 
of Manufactures at $ i, 3 70, 5 68, 000. ^ This includes only the 
products of the 1641 slaughter houses which were of such size 
as to be classified as manufacturing establishments ; it does not 
include the meats slaughtered by local butchers or on farms, 
which must of course be added if the estimate is to represent 
the value of the meat industry or the amount that consumers 
pay for meat. It was recently estimated by the United States 
Department of Agriculture that the annual meat bill of the United 
States approximates $2,300,000,000 and that an advance in 
price of i cent per pound costs consumers about $167,533,000 
a year. 

The meat-packing industry as we now understand it began 
about fifty years ago, with establishments for the curing and 
packing of pork at Cincinnati, which was then the center of the 
corn belt. The close connection between corn growing and 
swine raising is illustrated by a comparison of Figs. 10 and 11. 

With the development of railroad transportation, and the 
westward extension of the corn belt, the center of the pork- 
packing industry moved to Chicago; and with the introduction 
of refrigerator cars, slaughter of beef for transportation in cold 
storage has grown to be a business of great magnitude. 

1 The second and third largest industries for the same year according to the same 
authority were: foundry and machine shop products, $1,228,475,000; lumber and 
timber products, $1,156,120,000. 

M 161 



l62 



FOOD PRODUCTS 




MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



163 




1 64 FOOD PRODUCTS 



Beef 



Slaughter house methods. The animals are driven up an 
incline to the upper stories of the packing houses so that after 
slaughter the carcasses may be run from place to place by 
gravity. A few beeves at a time are let into the slaughter pen, 
where each is killed by a blow with a sledge-hammer. The 
floor of the pen then drops like an elevator, the beeves are rolled 
out upon the cement floor of the slaughter house, and the slaughter 
pen is raised into position again. The dead animal is at once 
strung up by the hind feet and, hanging head downward from 
a wheel on a track which runs from room to room, is bled, 
dressed, skinned, and the carcass divided in half without the 
necessity of any lifting or the use of power to transport it. 

The animal is bled- by cutting the carotid artery, the blood 
being collected by itself and for the most part dried for fertilizer, 
though a part of it may find its way into food products. In 
Europe blood sausage is a common article of food; here it is 
not generally popular, but a small amount of blood is sold at 
a large profit in dried or condensed form in patent foods. Com- 
mercial albumen may also be made from this blood. 

Next the stomach and intestines are removed, the fat which 
adheres to them serving for the preparation of oleo oil or tallow, 
their contents going into the cheaper grades of tankage, their 
muscular walls after thorough cleaning being available for food 
as " tripe." The lining of the stomach, particularly of calves, 
may be used as a source of rennet. 

Then the hide, horns, and hoofs are removed and worked for 
oil, gelatin, glue, leather, hair, and horn, the trimmings going 
into the tankage for fertilizer. 

Finally the carcass is split down the backbone and the halves 
sent to the refrigerating room to be thoroughly chilled. 

Although not more than twenty minutes may elapse between 
the felling of the animal and the arrival of the dressed sides at 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 165 

the refrigerator, the carcass has been through the hands of a 
dozen or more men, each one performing some particular opera- 
tion in a place arranged with special reference to the work to be 
done, and the convenience of handling the by-product obtained, 
the carcass being carried from place to place by the slight incline 
of the track on which its overhead trolley travels. 

In beef slaughtering, the " dressed weight " usually approxi- 
mates 60 per cent of the " live weight." 

That part of the beef which is to be sold in a fresh state is cut 
into quarters which, when properly trimmed and chilled, are 
loaded into refrigerator cars in which the quarters are hung 
from the ceiling as in an ordinary cold storage room; the 
properly refrigerated car is shipped under seal to the market 
where the meat is to be retailed. Here it may remain in cold 
storage for some time longer before being actually sold to the 
consumer. 

There is as yet no general concensus of opinion as to whether 
a limit should be set to the length of time which meat may 
be kept in cold storage. That some states set limits to the 
time of storage of all food was explained in the preceding 
chapter. 

Naturally meat which is frozen will keep with less change 
than that which is merely cold, and when it is to be kept for 
a considerable length of time, it should be not simply chilled 
to the freezing point of water, but actually frozen and kept in 
a hard-frozen condition. 

Cold storage. Richardson and Scherubel, chemists of one of 
the large packing houses in Chicago, have published ^ an ex- 
tended chemical, histological, and bacteriological investigation 
of beef kept frozen for over eighteen months. 

These investigators find, as had previously been found to be 
the case in plant tissues, that when the moist protoplasm freezes, 
the ice forms outside rather than inside the cell so that the 

1 Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 30, pages 1515-1564. 



1 66 FOOD PRODUCTS 

microscopic examination of frozen beef shows the muscle fibers 
shrunken and distorted and separated by layers of ice. Richard- 
son holds that even if bacteria could retain their activity at 
the temperature of frozen meat, they would be practically 
prevented from penetrating into the meat by these layers of 
ice which separate the muscle fibers, and that the histological 
changes which have sometimes been reported as occurring in 
frozen meats may be due to the mere physical effects of freezing, 
especially if followed by too rapid thawing, rather than to any 
bacterial change or other deterioration. 

Richardson and Scherubel's examinations of frozen meat 
for bacteria both by direct microscopic and by cultural methods 
indicated that beef which had been kept frozen even so long as 
600 days was free from bacteria at a depth of one centimeter 
or more from the surface. On the other hand, in meat kept at 
2-4° C. bacteria had penetrated to a depth of about one centi- 
meter in thirty days. 

The principal result shown by chemical analysis of a large 
number of samples of beef which had been kept frozen from 
33 to 554 days (in a room whose temperature varied from — 9 to 
— 12° C.) was that the exterior of the meat dried to a depth of 
from 2 to 4 millimeters in the course of a year in the open freezer, 
after which the progress of the drying was extremely slow. 
The moisture content of the portion thus dried was about 30 
per cent ; that of the frozen meat as a whole was about 76 per 
cent — the same as for corresponding cuts of fresh meat. There 
was no increase of ammoniacal nitrogen in the stored meats, 
which is considered by these investigators as strong evidence 
that there was no bacterial decomposition of the proteins. 
Neither was there any difference between the fresh and frozen 
meats as regards cold water extract, total nitrogen of cold water 
extract, or the coagulable proteins, the albumoses, or the nitrog- 
enous extractives. 

It is hardly necessary to point out that such good preservation 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 167 

over long periods of time is not to be expected of meat which 
is merely refrigerated without being hard frozen. 

Other methods of preservation. Aside from cold storage, 
the principal means of preserving meats are drying, canning, 
and the application of preservative substances. 

Drying is, when applicable, a very effective method and has 
been long used. In some climates it is only necessary to cut 
the meat into strips and hang it out of doors. The " jerked 
beef " of the West was prepared in this way, and a mixture of 
dried lean meat with fat known as " pemmican " is concentrated 
food largely used by explorers. Dried meat is, however, by most 
people considered less attractive than fresh meat, and as a com- 
mercial process, the drying is slow and troublesome. 

Canned meat is now put up in large quantities. Often all of 
the meat of the fore quarter and the cheaper cuts of the hind 
quarter are canned. There is a tendency to use the leaner 
carcasses for canning, both because the fat beeves can be sold 
at better prices in the fresh state and because the leaner meats 
are more attractive than the fat meats when canned. 

Sometimes the beef is cured with salt, and usually also a little 
saltpeter, and then canned and sold as " canned corned beef." 
When preserved by canning alone without salting the product 
is sometimes called " canned roast beef "and sometimes simply 
" canned beef." The following is an outline of the latter process. 

The meat selected for canning is cut into pieces usually one 
to four pounds each, depending upon the size of cans to be filled. 
It is then parboiled by putting into a tank with water and cook- 
ing with steam. Or the meat may be parboiled in larger pieces, 
then trimmed free from gristle and superfluous fat, and cut by 
machinery into approximately uniform pieces of a size pro- 
portioned to the size of the cans. 

The parboiling causes a shrinkage of the meat so that ,( while 
being cooked in water) its water content is diminished. 

That part of the fat which is cooked out of the meat rises to 



1 68 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the top and is skimmed off ; the extractives, the salts, and the 
very small amounts of protein which are extracted remain in 
solution in the water in which the meat is cooked, which thus 
becomes of value for the making of soup stock and meat extract. 

Wiley estimated that this cooking extracts a little over one 
part in one hundred of the protein of the meat, about one third 
of the '' extractives," and up to one half of the salts. 

After the parboiled meat has been packed in the cans, enough 
of the " soup liquor," made by concentrating the water in which 
the meat was cooked, is added to fill the spaces between the 
pieces and to restore so far as is practicable the flavoring con- 
stituents lost in parboiling. This added " soup liquor " may 
also contain salt, sugar, or molasses as a flavoring. 

In canning tongue and in other cases in which the form of 
the product is to be preserved, the cans are filled by hand. In 
the case of corned beef and potted or deviled meat, the cans are 
filled by means of the " stuffing machine," which presses into 
the can approximately the required amount of meat, the weight 
being tested and adjusted as each can leaves the machine. The 
cap of the can is then soldered on by means of the " capping 
machine " which leaves the can completely sealed except for 
the small vent hole in the top. The cans are then tested for 
leaks and any leaks found are repaired by hand. 

The cans are then sent to vacuum machines by means of 
which the air is exhausted from within the can and the vent 
holes sealed while the can is in the vacuum chamber. From 
the vacuum machines the cans are run out on tables and again 
inspected to make sure that they are free from leaks. ^ 

The cans are now ready for " processing," which simply means 
the heating of the can and contents to a sufficient temperature 
to insure its keeping. The temperature and time of heating 
depend chiefly upon the size of the cans, but also to some extent 

^ Any can found leaky at this point is repaired by hand, the vent reopened, and 
the can returned to the vacuum machine. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 169 

upon other conditions. Probably the most usual temperature 
is between 225° and 250° F. (107°-! 21° C.) which is usually 
attained by the use of superheated steam in large iron or steel 
boilers or " retorts." Sometimes an oil bath is employed as 
a means of maintaining the high temperature. In case the 
nature of the product makes it desirable to avoid a temperature 
above boiling, the processing may be accomplished by placing 
the cans for a sufficient length of time in large open kettles or 
tanks of water which are kept at the boiling point by means of 
steam coils. 

As the cans come hot from processing, the ends are slightly 
bulged outward owing to the expansion of the contents by the 
heating. They are now subjected to a cold spray until the 
contents are thoroughly chilled, when the ends of the can should 
be slightly concave and should remain so until the can is opened 
for use. 

Finally the cans are washed in alkali to remove any grease, 
then in water, dried, painted, and labeled. Many establish- 
ments maintain warm " test rooms " at a temperature of 100- 
110° F. to which is sent a sample batch of each " run " of canned 
meats to make sure that no cans prove defective when kept for 
several days at this high temperature. 

A sound can should have slightly concave ends and should 
give only a dull sound when struck on the top or bottom; 
a can which shows bulging ends and emits a hollow or drum-Hke 
sound when struck on the top or bottom is likely to be leaky, 
or improperly packed, or to contain material which has under- 
gone decomposition with production of gas. 

Application of preservative substances is another common 
and important method of preserving meats. The substances 
which have been used to any considerable extent for this purpose 
are salt, saltpeter, boric acid or borates, sulphites, vinegar, 
wood smoke, and sugar. Salt, sugar, vinegar, and wood smoke 
are condimental as well as preservative in their properties, and 



1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Ribs. 

4. Shoulder clod. 

5. Fore shank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross ribs. 

8. Plate. 

9. Navel. 

10. Loin. 

11. Flank. 

12. Rump. 

13. Round. 

14. Second cut round. 

15. Hind shank. 



hh^ 




Fig. 12. — Cutsofbeef. (Atwater and Bryant.) U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

170 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



171 



there is no restriction upon their use. Saltpeter, in addition 
to its preservative action, has the property of maintaining or even 
intensifying the red color of beef. Under the present laws it 
has been ruled that saltpeter may be used pending further in- 
vestigation regarding its wholesomeness. Boric acid and borax, 
which when used are employed purely for their preservative 
effect, and sulphites, which act both to preserve and to give 
the meat a bright appearance, are not permitted under the pres- 
ent United States meat inspection law. In England and 
Canada, on the other hand, no objection is made to the use of 
limited amounts of boric acid or of borax. 

Composition of beef. The data given in Table 12 on the 
composition of the various cuts and preparations of beef are 
based on the American analyses compiled by Atwater and Bryant. 
Their designation of cuts was less detailed and in some respects 
slightly different from that shown earlier in the chapter. The 
designations used by Atwater and Bryant and in the table 
which follows here, are as indicated in Fig. 12. 

In the analyses recorded by Atwater and Bryant and sum- 
marized here, all the fat found on the respective parts of the 
dressed carcasses was included, whereas in practice much of 
this fat is trimmed off by the retail butcher, usually still more 
is removed during the preparation of the meat in the kitchen, 
and any distinct layers of fat which remain on the meat when 
served at the table are quite likely to be left uneaten — or at 
least less completely eaten than is the lean portion of the beef. 
For these reasons the composition of the various cuts, as shown 
by the averages of all analyses, or analyses of samples classified 
as medium fat, are apt to show a very much higher fuel value 
than is in practice available to the consumer of the meat. The 
accompanying tables show the averages of all analyses for each 
cut and also, wherever available, average analyses for those 
specimens of the cut which were described as lean or very 
lean. 



172 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



The lean samples contain more than an average amount of 
protein while the average samples contain more fat than is 
usually eaten, so that each exaggerates the food value in one 
way or the other. In dietary calculations or in comparing the 
nutritive economy of beef and other foods it might perhaps be 
wise to credit the beef with the protein content shown by the 
average of all analyses and the fuel value shown by the analyses 
of the lean specimens. 

Table 12. Average Composition of Cuts of Beef^ 



Description 



1-4 

1! 


04 




Protein 




1 

>< 



1 


10 

X 

'A 


pq 




Per 
cent 


Per 
cent 


Per 
cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 
cent 




Per 
cent 


3 


— 


54-6 


15.8 


16.0 


28.5 


— 


•9 


3 


23-3 


41.6 


12.0 


12.2 


22.3 


~ 


.6 


I 





73.8 


22.3 


21.3 


3-9 





I.O 


I 


18.4 


60.2 


18.2 


17.4 


3.2 


~ 


.8 


2 





71-3 


20.2 


19-5 


8.2 


— 


1.0 


2 


19-5 


57-4 


16.3 


i5'7 


6.6 




.8 


13 


— 


65.0 


19.2 


18.7 


15.4 


— 


•9 


12 


17.3 


54-0 


15-8 


15-5 


12.5 




.7 


I 


— 


75.8 


22.2 


21.7 


1.4 


— 


I.I 


I 


16.7 


63.1 


18.6 


18. 1 


1.2 


— 


.9 


II 


— 


71-3 


19-5 


19.4 


8.3 


— 


1.0 


II 


22.7 


S5-I 


I5-I 


15-0 


6.4 


— 


.8 



is 



beef, fresh 

Brisket, medium fat : 

Edible portion . . . . 

As purchased . . . . 
Chuck, including shoulder, 
very lean : 

Edible portion . . . . 

As purchased . . . . 
Chuck, including shoulder, 
lean : 

Edible portion . . . . 

As purchased . . . . 

Chuck, including shoulder, 

all analyses : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Chuck rib, very lean : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Chuck rib, lean : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 



Cal. 



1450 
1 130 



564 
461 



702 
565 



978 
797 

460 
387 

693 
535 



1 Based on Atwater and Bryant's Composition of American Food Materials. 
Bulletin 28 (Revised). OflBce of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



173 



Table 12. Average Composition of Cuts or Beef — Continued 



Description 



BEEF, FRESH 

Chuck rib, all analyses 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Flank, very lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Flank, lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Flank, all analyses : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Loin, very lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Loin, lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Loin, all analyses : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Loin, boneless strip : ^ 
Loin, sirloin butt: ^ 
Loin, porterhouse steak 

Edible portion , 

As purchased 
Loin, sirloin steak ; 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Loin, tenderloin 
Navel, very lean : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 



Per 

cent 



19.1 



3.5 



1.4 



5-5 



23.0 



I3-I 



13-3 



12.7 



12.8 



2.9 



Per 

cent 



66.8 
53-8 

70.7 
68.2 

67.8 
66.9 

59-3 
S6.i 

70.8 
54-6 

67.0 
58.2 

61.3 
52.9 
66.3 
62.5 

60.0 
52-4 

61.9 
54-0 
59-2 

68.6 
66.6 



Protein 



Per 

cent 



19.0 

15-3 

25.9 
24.9 

20.8 
20.5 

19.6 
18.6 

24.6 
18.8 

19.7 
17.1 

19.0 
16.4 
17.8 
19.7 

21.9 
19.1 

18.9 
16.5 
16.2 

30-7 
29.8 



Per 

cent 



18.8 
I5'2 

24.8 

23-9 

IQ.9 
19.7 

18.7 
17.7 

24.2 
18.5 

19-3 
16.7 

18.6 
16.0 
16.2 
18.9 

18.6 
16.2 

18.6 
16.2 
15.6 

29.4 
28.5 



Per 

cent 



134 
II. I 

3-3 
11.3 

II.O 

21. 1 
19.9 

3-7 
3-0 

12.7 
II. I 

19.1 
16.9 
16.7 
17.7 

20.4 
17.9 

18.5 
16.1 
24.4 

.6 
.6 



1 All loin parts are included under analyses of " loin." 



174 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Table 12. Average Composition of Cuts of Beef — Continued 



Description 



beef, fresh 

Neck, lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Neck, all analyses : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Plate, very lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Plate, lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Plate, all analyses : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Ribs, very lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Ribs, lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Ribs, all analyses : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased . . . 
Rib rolls, lean, as purchased 
Rib rolls, all analyses, a 

purchased . . . 
Rib trimmings, all analyses 

as purchased 
Ribs, cross, very lean : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Ribs, cross, all analyses : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 



Per 

cent 



29-5 



31.2 



37.4 



17-3 



19.8 



23-3 



22.6 



34-1 
12.8 
12.5 



Per 

cent 



70.1 
49-5 

66.3 
45-3 

69.1 
43 -o 

65.9 
54-4 

56.3 
44.4 

70.9 
54-2 

67.9 
52.6 

57-0 
45-3 
69.0 

64.8 
35-7 

65.8 
57-4 

54-9 
48.0 



Protein 



Per 

cent 



21.4 
I5-I 

20.7 
14.2 

22.8 
13.6 

15.6 

I3-0 

16.8 
13. 1 

25.0 
19.4 

19.6 
15.2 

17.8 
14.4 
20.2 

19.4 

II.O 

18.0 

15-6 

159 
13.8 






Per 

cent 



20.5 
14.4 

20.0 

13-6 

22.1 
13.2 

14.6 
12.2 

16.0 
12.5 

24.4 
18.9 

19.1 
14.8 

17-5 
13-9 
19-5 

18.8 
10.5 

18.4 
16.1 

16.1 
14.0 



Per 

cent 



6.4 
5-9 

12.7 
9.2 

7-7 
5-7 

18.8 
15-5 

26.9 
22.7 

3-5 

2.7 

12.0 
9-3 

24.6 
20.0 
10.5 

iS-S 
19.2 

14.9 
13.0 

28.2 
24.8 



S 



Per 
cent 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 175 

Table 12. Average Composition of Cuts of Beef — Continued 



Description 



BEEF, FRESH 

Round, very lean : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Round, lean : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Round, all analyses : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Round, second cut : 

Edible portion . , 

As purchased , . 
Rump, very lean : 

Edible portion . , 

As purchased , . 
Rump, lean : 

Edible portion . , 

As purchased . . 
Shank, fore, all analyses 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . . 
Shank, hind, all analyses 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Shoulder and clod, very 
lean : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Shoulder and clod, lean 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Shoulder and clod, all 
analyses : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 



Per 

cent 



10.6 



8.5 



19-5 



14-3 



14.0 



38.3 



554 



23-3 



17.4 



Per 

cent 

73-6 

65-9 

70.0 

64.4 

67.8 
62.5 

69.8 
56.2 

71.2 

60.9 

65.7 
56.6 

70.3 

43-2 

69.6 
31.0 



76.1 
58.3 

73-1 
59-4 



68.9 
S7.0 



Protein 



Per 

cent 

22.6 
20.2 

21.3 

19-5 

20.9 
19.2 

20.4 
16.4 

23.0 
19-5 

20.9 
19.1 

21.4 
13.2 

21.7 
9-7 



21.3 
16.3 

20.4 
16.4 



20.0 
16.S 



tta S 



Per 

cent 



22.3 
19.9 

21.0 
19.2 

20.5 
18.8 

20.5 
16.5 

22.5 
I9.I 

19.6 

i7'5 

20.7 
12.7 

20.7 
9-3 



21.5 
16.5 

20.4 
16.5 



19.7 
16.3 



Per 

cent 

2.8 
2.4 

7-9 
10.6 

9.2 

8.6 
6.9 

5-1 
4.6 

13-7 

II.O 

8.1 

5-2 

8.7 

3-9 



1-3 
i.o 

5-4 
4.4 



10.3 
8.4 



« 



176 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Table 12. Average Composition of Cuts of Beef — Continued 





^ m 






Protein 




I 




l§ 




^U 


bl 


a 








< 




Description 


« 


s 

^ 


< 



X 


I' 




§ 


1 


H 


beef, fresh 




Per 
cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 
cent 


Per 
cent 




Per 

cent 


Cal. 


Fore quarter, very lean : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


74.1 


22.1 


21.3 


3.6 





I.O 


548 


As purchased .... 


2 


30.3 


51-5 


15-4 


14.8 


2.7 







7 


390 


Fore quarter, lean : 






















Edible portion .... 


4 


— 


68.6 


18.9 


18.4 


12.2 







8 


841 


As purchased .... 


4 


22.3 


53-3 


14.7 


14-3 


9-5 







6 


655 


Fore quarter, all analyses : 






















Edible portion .... 


18 


— 


62.5 


18.3 


17.7 


18.9 







9 


1 100 


As purchased .... 


18 


20.6 


49.5 


14.4 


14.1 


I5-I 







7 


878 


Hind quarter, very lean : 






















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


72.0 


24.0 


23-3 


3-5 





I 


2 


578 


As purchased .... 


2 


21.0 


56.9 


19.0 


18.4 


2.8 







9 


459 


Hind quarter, lean : 






















Edible portion .... 


4 


— 


66.3 


20.0 


19-3 


13-4 





I 





910 


As purchased .... 


4 


16.6 


55-3 


16.7 


16.1 


II. 2 







8 


760 


Hind quarter, all analyses : 






















Edible portion .... 


18 


— 


62.2 


19-3 


18.6 


18.3 







9 


IIOO 


As purchased .... 


18 


16.3 


52.0 


16.1 


15-5 


15-4 







8 


921 


Sides, very lean : 






















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


73.1 


23.0 


22.3 


3-5 





I 


I 


560 


As purchased .... 


2 


26.0 


54-0 


17.0 


16.5 


2.7 







8 


419 


Sides, lean : . 






















Edible portion .... 


4 


— 


67.2 


19-3 


18.7 


13.2 







9 


890 


As purchased .... 


4 


19.S 


54-1 


15-5 


IS -I 


10.6 







7 


714 


Sides, all analyses : 






















Edible portion .... 


18 


— 


62.2 


18.8 


18. 1 


18.8 







9 


mo 


As purchased .... 


18 


18.6 


50.5 


15.2 


14.7 


15-5 







7 


909 


Miscellaneous cuts, free from 






















all visible fat ... 


II 


— 


73-8 


22.4 


22.1 


2.9 





I 


2 


525 


Clear fat 


7 


— 


13-4 


4.1 


4.1 


82.1 







4 


3425 


Soup stock 


I 


— 


89.1 


— 


5-8 


1-5 





3 


6 


166 


BEEF ORGANS 




















Brain, edible portion . . 


I 


— 


80.6 


8.8 


g.o 


9.3 





I.I 


540 


Heart, edible portion . . 


2 


— 


62.6 


16.0 


16.0 


20.4 





1.0 


1125 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 177 

Table 12. Average Composition of Cuts of Beef — Continued 





S en 






Protein 








'4 


Description 




(4 


< 


X 

"A 




s 


< 

(Hi 


< 


BEEF ORGANS 




Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 




Per 

cent 


Cal. 


Kidney, as purchased . . 




19.9 


63.1 


13-7 




1.9 


.4 


I.O 


333 


Beef liver, as purchased . . 




7-3 


65.6 


20.2 




3-1 


2.5 


^•3, 


539 


Lungs, as purchased . . 




— 


79-7 


16.4 


16.I 


3.2 


— 


1.0 


438 


Marrow, as purchased . . 




— 


2>-2> 


2,2 


2.6 


92.8 


— 


1.3 


3830 


Sweetbreads, as purchased 




— 


70.9 


16.8 


15-4 


12. 1 


— 


1.6 


800 


Suet, as purchased . . . 


9 


— 


13-7 


4.7 


4.2 


81.8 


— 


•3 


3420 


1 ongue '. 
Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


70.8 


18.9 


ig.o 


9.2 


— 


1.0 


719 


As purchased .... 


3 


26.S 


51.8 


I4.I 


14.2 


6.7 


— 


.8 


530 


BEEF, cooked 




















Round steak, fat partly 




















removed 


18 


— 


63.0 


27.6 


27-5 


7-7 


— 


1.8 


815 


Sirloin steak, baked . . . 


I 


— 


63.7 


23.9 


24.7 


10.2 


— 


1.4 


850 


Loin steak, tenderloin, 




















broiled, edible portion 


6 


— 


54.8 


23-5 


23-6 


20.4 


— 


1.2 


1260 


Sandwich meat .... 


3 


— 


58.3 


28.0 


27.9 


II. 


— 


2.8 


958 


BEEF, CANNED 




















Chih-con-carne 


I 


— 


75-4 


13-3 


— 


4.6 


4.0 


2.7 


502 


Collops, minced 








I 


— 


72.3 


17.8 


— 


6.8 


I.I 


1.9 


611 


Corned beef 








15 


— 


51.8 


26.3 


25-5 


18.7 


— 


4.0 


1240 


Dried beef . . 








2 


— 


44.8 


39-2 


38.6 


5.4 


— 


II. 2 


932 


Kidneys, stewed 








2 


— 


71.9 


18.4 


— 


5-1 


2.1 


2.5 


570 


Luncheon beef 








I 


— 


52.9 


27.6 


26.4 


15-9 





4.8 


1150 


Roast beef . . 








4 


— 


58.9 


25.9 


25-0 


14.8 





1.3 


1070 


Rump steak 








I 


— 


56.3 


24.3 


23-5 


18.7 





1-5 


1200 


Sweetbreads 








I 


— 


69.0 


20.2 


19-5 


9-5 





2.0 


755 


Tongue, ground 








6 


— 


49.9 


21.4 


21.0 


25.1 





4.0 


1410 


Tongue, whole . 








5 


— 


51.3 


19-5 


21.5 


23.2 





4.0 


1300 


Tripe .... 








2 


— 


74.6 


16.8 


16.4 


8.5 





•5 


652 


BEEF, CORNED AND PICKLED 




















Corned beef, all analyses : 




















Edible portion .... 


10 


— 


53.6 


15.6 


15-3 


26.2 





4.9 


1350 


As purchased .... 


10 


8.4 


49.2 


14-3 


14.0 


23.8 


~ 


4.6 


1230 



178 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Table 12. Average Composition of Cuts of Beef — Continued 





OS 




i 


Protein 


& 


i 
< 
Pi 

I 

Qi 

6 


H 
^ 


M 


Description 


X 


Is 


beef, corned and pickled 

Spiced beef, rolled . . . 
Tongues, pickled : 

Edible portion .... 

As purchased .... 
Tripe 

beef, dried, etc. 

Dried, salted, and smoked : 
Edible portion .... 
As purchased .... 


I 

2 
2 
4 

7 
2 


Per 

cent 

6.0 
4-7 


Per 
cent 
30.0 

62.3 
58.9 

86.5 

54-3 
53-7 


Per 

cent 
12.0 

12.8 
II.9 
II. 7 

30.0 
26.4 


Per 

cent 
II.8 

12.5 
II.6 

II.8 

30.1 
25.8 


Per 

cent 

51-4 

20.5 

19.2 

1.2 

6.5 
6.9 


.2 


Per 

6.8 

4.7 

4.3 

•3 

9.1 

8.9 


2320 

1070 

1000 

265 

810 

761 



Veal 

Veal is the meat of calves which under the United States 
Meat Inspection Regulations must be not less than three weeks 
old at the time of slaughter.^ Meat of calves less than three 
weeks old is popularly known as " bob veal." 

As a food veal is generally regarded in this country with 
less favor than beef, and with greater suspicion the younger the 
animal. Thus Oilman Thompson writes : " Veal, especially 
when obtained from animals killed too young, is usually tough, 
pale, dry, and indigestible." According to Friedenwald and 
Ruhrah : " Veal is tough and indigestible, especially when 
obtained from animals that are killed too young. It differs 
considerably in flavor from beef, and contains more gelatin 
than the latter. As in many persons veal has a tendency to 

1 In Europe no objection is raised to the use of veal from younger calves. Edel- 
mann states that in Germany calves are commonly slaughtered at from three days 
to three weeks of age. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



179 



produce indigestion, it is to be avoided in all cases of digestive 
debility." 

Laboratory experiments upon the digestibility and whole- 
someness of veal are now (1913-1914) in progress in the Bureau 
of Animal Industry of the United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 

The method of cutting up a side of veal is quite different from 
that followed in the case of beef. The cuts recognized in the 
tables of Atwater and Bryant are shown in Fig. 13. 




1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Shoulder. 

4. Fore ahahk. 

5. Breast. 



6. Ribs. 

7. Loin. 

8. Flaiik. 
0. Leg. 

10. Hind shack. 




Fig. 13. — Cuts of veal. (Atwater and Bryant.) U. S. Department of 
Agriculture. 



The average composition of the various cuts of veal, based 
on the results of American analyses compiled by Atwater and 
Bryant, is given in Table 13. 



i8o 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 13. Average Composition of Cuts of Veal 



Description 



Breast, very lean : 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Breast, lean : 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Breast, all analyses 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Chuck, lean : 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Chuck, all analyses 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Flank, all analyses 
chased . . 

Leg, lean : 

Edible portion 
As purchased 

Leg, all analyses : 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Leg, cutlets : 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Loin, lean : 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Loin, all analyses : 
Edible portion 
As purchased 

Neck: 

Edible portion 
As purchased 



as pur 



Jl 




1 


Protein 


1 


I 

I 
(A 

<: 



< 


X 






Per 

cent 


Per 
cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 
cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 
cent 


I 

I 


46.8 


73.2 
38-9 


23.1 
12.3 


23.1 
12.3 


2.5 
1-3 


— 


1.2 

.7 


3 
3 


23-4 


70.3 
S4-0 


21.2 
15.7 


20.7 
16.I 


8.0 
6.2 


— 


I.O 

•7 


8 
8 


24.S 


68.2 
51.3 


20.3 


ig.8 
14.8 


II.O 

8.6 





1.0 
.8 


I 
I 


19.0 


76.3 
61.8 


— 


20.6 
16.7 


1.9 
1.6 


— 


1.2 
.9 


7 
7 


19.0 


73.8 
59-8 


19.7 

16.0 


19.4 
15-7 


5.8 
4-7 


— 


1.0 
.8 


6 


— • 


66.9 


20.1 


19.4 


12.7 


— 


1.0 


9 
9 


9.1 


73-5 
66.8 


21.3 
19.4 


21.2 
19-3 


4.1 
3-7 


— 


1.2 
I.I 


19 
18 


II. 7 


71.7 
63.4 


20.7 

18.3 


20.5 
18.1 


6.7 
5-8 


— 


I.I 
1.0 


3 
3 


34 


70.7 
68.3 


20.3 

20.1 


20.5 
19.8 


7.7 
7-S 


— 


I.I 
1.0 


5 
5 


22.0 


73-3 
57.1 


20.4 
15-9 


19.9 
15.6 


5.6 
4.4 


— 


1.2 
•9 


13 
13 


18.9 


69.S 
56.3 


19.9 
16.1 


19.4 
i5'7 


lO.O 

8.2 


— 


I.I 
•9 


6 
6 


31-5 


72.6 
49.9 


20.3 
13-9 


I9'5 
13-3 


6.9 
4.6 




1.0 
.7 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



l8l 



Table 13. Average Composition of Cuts of Veal — Continued 



Description 






Rib, medium fat : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Rib, all analyses : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Rump: 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Shank, fore : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Shank, hind, medium fat 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Shoulder, lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Fore quarter : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Hind quarter : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Side, with kidney, fat, and 
tallow : 

Edible portion . . . . 

As purchased . . . . 

VEAL organs 

Heart, as purchased . . 

Kidneys, as purchased . . 

Liver, as purchased . . . 

Lungs, as purchased . . . 



Per 

cent 



25.3 



25.0 



30.2 



40.4 



62.7 



18.3 



24.5 



20.7 



22.6 



Per 

cent 



72.7 
54-3 

69.8 
52.3 

62.6 
43-7 

74.0 
44.1 

74.5 
27.8 

73-4 
59-9 

71.7 
54-2 

70.9 
56.2 



71.3 
55-2 



73-2 
75.8 
73-0 
76.8 



Protein 



Per 

cent 



20.7 
15-5 

20.2 

15-2 

19.8 

13.8 

20.7 

12.2 

20.7 
7.7 

20.7 
16.9 

20.0 

iS-i 

20.7 
16.2 



20.2 
15-6 



16.8 
16.9 
19.0 
17.1 



as 

'V a 



Per 

cent 



20.1 
15.0 

19.7 
14.8 

20.1 
14.0 

19.8 

II.8 

19.9 
7-4 

20.7 
16.9 

19.4 
14.6 

19.8 
15-7 



19.6 
I5-I 



16.2 
16.5 
20.4 
17.1 



Per 

cent 



6.1 
4.6 

9.4 
7.1 

16.2 
II.3 

5-2 

3-1 

4.6 
1.7 

4.6 
3-9 

8.0 
6.0 

8.3 
6.6 



8.1 
6.3 



9.6 
6.4 
5-3 
5-0 



Per 

cent 






•9 


— 


.7 


— 


I.O 


— 


.8 


_ 


1.0 


— 


.8 





1.0 


— 


1.3 


— 


1^3 




I.I 



l82 



FOOD PRODUCTS 
Mutton and Lamb 



Sheep and lambs are slaughtered by bleeding and then dressed 
in much the same manner as cattle. The dressed weight is 
usually 45 to 50 per cent of the live weight. 

According to At water and Bryant the cuts in a side of mutton 
or lamb number but six, three in each quarter. The " loin " 




1. Neck. 

2. Chuck: 

3. Shoulder. 

4. Flank. 

5. Loin. 

6. Leg. 



Fig. 14. — Cuts of lamb and mutton. (Atwater and Bryant.) 

of Agriculture. 




U. S. Department 



extends forward to the shoulder blades and the " flank " is made 
to include all the under side of the animal. (See Fig. 14.) 

The term " choj^s " is used to designate portions of either the 
loin, ribSj, chuck, or shoulder which are cut or " chopped " by 
the butcher ifvtb pieces~sultable for broiling or frying. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



183 



The following table (Table 14) gives the composition of cuts 
of mutton and lamb according to Atwater and Bryant. 

Table 14. Average Composition of Lamb and Mutton 



Description 



LAMB, FRESH 

Breast or chuck : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased 
Leg, hind, medium iat 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . . . 

Loin, without kidney and 

tallow : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Neck: 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Shoulder : 

Edible portion . . 

■ As purchased . . 
Fore quarter : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Hind quarter : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Side, without tallow : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 

LAME, COOKED 

Chops, broiled : 

Edible portion . . 
As purchased . . 

Leg, roast .... 






Per 
cent 



[9.1 



17.4 



14.8 



17.7 



20.3 



iS-7 



19-3 



13-5 



Per 
cent 



56.2 
45-5 

63-9 
52.9 



53-1 
45-3 

56.7 
46.7 

51.8 
41.3 

55-1 
44-7 

60.9 
51-3 

58.2 
47.0 



47.6 
40.1 
67.1 



Protein 



Per 

cent 



19.1 
154 

19.2 
15-9 



18.7 
16.0 

17.7 
14.6 

18.1 
14.4 

18.3 
14.9 

19.6 
16.5 

17.6 
14.1 



21.7 
18.4 
19.7 



Per 

cent 



19.2 
15-5 

18.5 
I5'2 



17.6 
15.0 

17-5 
14.4 

17-5 
14.0 

18.1 
14.7 

19.0 
16.0 

17.6 
14.2 



21.2 

1S.5 
19.4 



Per 

cent 



23.6 
19.I 

16.S 
13.6 



28.3 
24.1 

24.8 
20.4 

29.7 
23.6 

25.8 
21.0 

19.I 
16.1 

23.1 
18.7 



29.9 
26.7 
12.7 



Per 
cent 



i84 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 14. Average Composition of Lamb and Mutton — Continued 









Pi 


fit 

1 


i Protein 






1 


go 


Description 


to 

X 

12; 


Is 




■<i! 

< 



h 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cal. 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


LAMB, CANNED 




















Tongue, spiced and cooked : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


67.4 


13-9 


14-3 


17.8 


— 


.5 


980 


As purchased . . . . 


I 


2.6 


65.7 


13.S 


13-9 


17-3 


— 


•5 


951 


MUTTON, FRESH 




















Chuck, lean : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


64.7 


17.8 


18.1 


16.3 


— 


•9 


989 


As purchased . . 




I 


19.5 


S2.I 


14-3 


I4'5 


I3.I 


— 


.8 


794 


Chuck, all analyses : 






















Edible portion . . 




10 


— 


48.2 


14.6 


14.2 


36.8 


— 


.8 


1767 


As purchased . . 




10 


19.4 


38.S 


II. 7 


11.4 


30.0 


— 


•7 


1437 


Flank, medium fat : 






















Edible portion . . 




8 


— 


46.2 


15.2 


14.8 


38.3 


— 


.7 


1839 


As purchased . . 




2 


9.9 


39-0 


13.8 


13-6 


36.9 


— 


.6 


I7S7 


Leg, hind, lean : 






















Edible portion . . 




3 


— 


67.4 


19.8 


19.1 


12.4 


— 


I.I 


865 


As purchased . . 




3 


16.8 


S6.i 


16.5 


I5'9 


10.3 


— 


•9 


720 


Leg, hind, medium fat : 






















Edible portion . . 




II 


— 


62.8 


18.S 


18.2 


18.0 


— 


I.O 


1070 


As purchased . . 




II 


18.4 


51-2 


iS-i 


14.9 


14.7 


— 


.8 


874 


Loin, without kidney or 


tal- 




















low, medium fat : 






















Edible portion . . 




13 


— 


SO. 2 


16.0 


15-9 


33-1 


— 


.8 


1642 


As purchased . . 




12 


16.0 


42.0 


I3-S 


13-0 


28.3 


— 


•7 


1400 


Loin, free fat removed 




I 


— 


56.5 


23-7 


23-9 


18.5 


— 


I.I 


ii8s 


Neck, medium fat : 






















Edible portion . . 




10 


— 


58.1 


16.9 


16.3 


24,6 


— 


1.0 


1311 


As purchased . . 




10 


27.4 


42.1 


12.3 


11.9 


17.9 


— 


•7 


954 


Shoulder, lean : 






















Edible portion , . 




I 


— 


67.2 


19-5 


18.9 


12.9 


— 


1.0 


90s 


As purchased . . 




I 


25-3 


50.2 


14.6 


14.2 


9.6 


— 


.7 


675 


Shoulder, medium fat : 






















Edible portion . . 


. 


7 


— 


61.9 


17.7 


i7'3 


19.9 


— 


.9 


1133 


As purchased . . . 


• 


7 


22.5 


47-9 


13-7 


13-4 


15.5 


— 


.7 


881 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 185 

Table 14. Average Composition of Lamb and Mutton — Continued 





St« 






Protein 




B 




u . 






^ 


g 








S 




si 


Description 




1^ 


s 



X 


1. 


I 




6 


< 


>l 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 








cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


Col. 


Fore quarter : 




















Edible portion .... 


10 


— 


52.9 


15.6 


IS'3 


30-9 


— 


•9 


1545 


As purchased .... 


10 


21.2 


41.6 


12.3 


12.0 


24-5 


— 


.7 


1224 


Hind quarter : 




















Edible portion .... 


10 





54.8 


16.7 


16.3 


28.1 


— 


.8 


1451 


As purchased .... 


10 


17.2 


454 


13-8 


13-5 


23.2 


— 


•7 


1198 


Side, including tallow : 




















Edible portion .... 


25 





54-2 


16.3 


16.0 


28.9 


— 


•9 


1475 


As purchased .... 


25 


18.I 


45.4 


13-0 


12.7 


23.1 


— 


•7 


1 180 


mutton, cooked 




















Mutton, leg roast, edible 




















portion 


2 





50.9 


25.0 


25-3 


22.6 


— 


1.2 


1377 


mutton, organs 




















Heart, as purchased . . . 


2 





69.5 


16.9 


17.0 


12.6 


— 


.9 


821 


Kidneys, as purchased . . 


I 





78.7 


16.S 


16.8 


3-2 


— 


1-3 


430 


Liver, as purchased . . . 


2 





61.2 


23.1 


— 


9.0 


5-0 


1-7 


878 


Lungs, as purchased . . . 


2 





75-9 


20.2 


20.1 


2.8 


— 


1.2 


481 


mutton, canned 




















Corned 


I 





4S.8 


28.8 


27.2 


22.8 


— 


4.2 


1454 


Tongue 


I 





47.6 


24.4 


23-6 


24.0 


— 


4.8 


1423 



Pork 

The slaughtering and packing of pork is carried on largely 
in the same establishments with the beef -packing industry, but 
the processes are quite different. The hog is killed by bleeding 
and then scalded by dropping into a tank of hot water from which 
the carcass is drawn up through a tower in which mechanical 
scrapers remove the bristles, thence through the hands of sue- 



i86 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



cessive workmen who dress and trim the carcass, split it in half, 
and send the halves to the refrigerating room. This entire 
process is completed in about 12 minutes, the carcasses follow- 
ing each other over the same track with almost incredible rapid- 
ity, sometimes as many as 400 hogs per hour. 




1. Head. 

2. Shoulder. 

3. Back. 

4. Middle cut 
6. Belly. 

6. Ham. 

7. Ribs. 

8. Loin. 



Fig. 15. — Cuts of pork. (Atwater and Bryant.) U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

The by-products of slaughter are utilized according to the 
same general principles as in the beef industry, but with many 
differences in detail which need not be considered here. 

Hogs are dressed without removal of the heads, and being 
fatter than cattle show a larger yield of dressed weight — usually 
75 to 85 per cent of the live weight. 

After having hung a couple of days in the chilling room the 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



187 



sides of pork are taken out, cut into the usual market pieces, 
a part sent to the refrigerator cars to be marketed fresh and a 
much larger part, generally about nine tenths of the whole, is 
cured in various ways chiefly by salting or smoking or both. 

The fat from the abdominal cavity of the hog furnishes the 
" leaf lard " of commerce. Lower grades of lard are rendered 
from trimmings and various parts not suitable for making into 
sausage. 

Besides supplying the home market, this country exports 
hundreds of millions of pounds of lard each year. Lard will 
be discussed further in connection with other edible fats in a 
later chapter. 

In general about one eighth of the live weight is obtained in 
lard and about the same in hams, while the yield of shoulders 
is slightly less (about one tenth of the live weight) and the 
remainder, aside from the head, is cut into different proportions 
of loin, back, ribs, middle cut, and belly according to circum- 
stances and demands. One division of the side of pork is shown 
in Fig. 15, and the average composition of the cuts thus repre- 
sented is given by Atwater and Bryant as follows (Table 15) : 



Table 15. Average Composition of Cuts of Pork 





Jl 


(4 


1 


Protein 


1 


g 
< 


< 




Description 


X 








Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Col. 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


PORK, FRESH 




















Ham, fresh, lean : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


60.0 


25.0 


24-3 


14.4 


— 


1-3 


1042 


As purchased .... 


2 


.9 


59-4 


24.8 


24.2 


14.2 


— 


1-3 


1030 


Ham, fresh, medium fat : 




















Edible portion .... 


ID 


— 


53-9 


iS-3 


16.4 


28.9 


— 


.« 


1457 


As purchased .... 


10 


10.7 


48.0 


13-5 


14.6 


25-9 


~ 


.8 


1302 



i88 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 15. Average Composition of Cuts of Pork — Continued 



Description 









Protein 


% 

u^ 


X 


pq 




Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per i 




cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent t 


3 


— 


45-3 


13-4 


12.7 


41.3 


3 


68.4 


13.8 


4.1 


3-8 


13.8 


3 


— 


43-3 


19-5 


i6.g 


33.8 


I 


12. 1 


42.3 


18.9 


18.6 


24.0 


I 


— 


60.3 


20.3 


19.7 


19.0 


I 


23-5 


46.1 


15-5 


I5'i 


14.5 


19 


— 


52.0 


16.6 


16.9 


30.1 


19 


19.7 


41.8 


13-4 


13-5 


24.2 


II 


— 


66.5 


18.9 


i9'5 


13.0 


3 




48.2 


15.7 


14.8 


36.3 


3 


19.7 


38.6 


12.7 


12. 1 


28.9 


19 


— 


SI. 2 


13-3 


I3-S 


34-2 


19 


12.4 


44.9 


12.0 


12.2 


29.8 


3 





29.4 


9.4 


8.5 


61.7 


3 


II. 2 


26.1 


8.3 


7-5 


54.8 


II 


— 


34-4 


9.1 


9.8 


55-3 


II 


ii-S 


30-4 


8.0 


8.6 


49.0 


8 


— 


25.1 


6.4 


6.9 


67.6 


8 


5-7 


23-7 


6.0 


6.4 


63.8 


8 


— 


31-4 


6.9 


7.8 


60.4 


8 


6.2 


29-5 


6.5 


7-3 


56.6 


I 


— 


75.8 


II. 7 


12.3 


10.3 



PORK, FRESH 

Head: 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Head cheese : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased 
Loin (chops) , lean : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased . . . 
Loin (chops), medium fat 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Loin, tenderloin 
Middle cuts : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased 
Shoulder : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Side, lard and other fat 
eluded : 

Edible portion . . . . 

As purchased . . . . 

Side, not including lard and 

kidney : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Clear backs : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Clear bellies : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 

PORK ORGANS, ETC. 

Brains, as purchased . 



Per 

cent 



in- 



1.6 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



189 



Table 15. Average Composition of Cuts op Pork — Continued 





1^ 






Protein 




I 








^ 


M 


1 








3 




Description 


Jl 




1^ 
X 


T3 a 


S 


n 



1 


It 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 








cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


Col. 


pork organs, etc. 




















Heart, as purchased . . . 


I 


— 


75-6 


17.I 


17.I 


6.3 


— 


I.O 


568 


Kidneys, as purchased . . 


2 


— 


77.8 


15-5 


— 


4.8 


0.7 


1.2 


490 


Liver, as purchased . . . 


I 


— 


71.4 


21.3 


— 


4.5 


1.4 


1.4 


596 


Lungs, as purchased . . . 


I 


— 


83.3 


11.9 


II.8 


4.0 


— 


•9 


379 


Marrow, as purchased . . 


6 


— 


14.6 


2-3 


4.2 


81.2 


— 


? 


3357 


PORK, PICKLED, SALTED, AND 




















smoked 




















Ham, smoked, lean : 




















Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


53-5 


19.8 


20.2 


20.8 


— 


5-5 


1207 


As purchased .... 


3 


II.5 


47.2 


17.S 


i7.g 


18.5 


— 


4.9 


1073 


Ham smoked, medium fat : 




















Edible portion .... 


14 


— 


40.3 


16.3 


16.1 


38.8 


— 


4.8 


1880 


As purchased .... 


14 


13.6 


34.8 


14.2 


14.0 


33-4 


— 


4.2 


1621 


Ham, luncheon, cooked: 




















Edible portion .... 


2 




49.2 


22.5 


24.0 


21.0 


— 


5.8 


1266 


As purchased .... 


2 


2.1 


48.1 


22.1 


23-5 


20.6 


— 


5.7 


1243 


Shoulder, smoked, medium 




















fat: 




















Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


4S.O 


15.9 


15.8 


32.S 


— 


6.7 


161S 


As purchased .... 


3 


18.2 


36.8 


13.0 


12.9 


26.6 


— 


5-5 


1322 


Pigs' tongues, pickled : 


















. 


Edible portion .... 


2 





58.6 


17.7 


18.0 


19.8 


— 


3.6 


1 130 


As purchased .... 


2 


3.2 


56.8 


I7.I 


i7'5 


19. 1 


— 


3.4 


1090 


Pigs' feet, pickled : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


68.2 


16.3 


1 6. 1 


14.8 


— 


•9 


900 


As purchased .... 


2 


35-5 


44.6 


10.2 


lO.O 


9-3 


— 


.6 


56s 


Dry-salted backs : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


17-3 


7-7 


7.2 


72.7 


— 


2.8 


3110 


As purchased .... 


2 


8.1 


15-9 


7-1 


6.5 


66.8 


— 


2.7 


2858 


Dry-salted bellies : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


17.7 


8.4 


6.7 


72.2 


— 


3-4 


3100 


As purchased .... 


2 


8.2 


16.2 


7-7 


6.2 


66.2 


~ 


3.2 


2842 



1 90 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 15. Average Composition of Cuts of Pork — Continued 



Description 



PORK, PICKLED, SALTED, AND 
SMOKED 

Salt pork, clear fat . . . 
Bacon, smoked, all analyses : 

Edible portion . . . 

As purchased . . . 
Ham, deviled .... 

SAUSAGE 

Aries : 

Edible portion . . . 

As purchased . . . 
Bologna : 

Edible portion . . . 

As purchased , . . 

Frankfort 

Pork, as purchased . . 
Pork and beef chopped tj 

gether, as purchased 
Summer : 

Edible portion . . . 

As purchased . . . 



fe 






Protein 




S 




p 




g 
% 
^ 


X 


PQ 






1 




Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 




cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


7 


— 


7-9 


1.9 


2.0 


86.2 


— 


3-9 


19 


— 


20.2 


10.5 


9-9 


64.8 


— 


5-1 


19 


8.7 


18.4 


9-5 


9.0 


59-4 


— 


4-5 


6 




44.1 


19.0 


1S.5 


34.1 




3-3 


I 


__ 


17.2 


26.8 


24.9 


50.6 




7-3 


I 


5-2 


16.3 


25-4 


23.6 


48.0 


— 


6.9 


8 


— 


60.0 


18.7 


18.4 


17.6 


•3 


3-7' 


4 


3-3 


55-2 


18.2 


18.0 


19.7 


— 


3-8 


8 


— 


57-2 


19.6 


19.7 


18.6 


I.I 


3-4 


II 


— 


39.« 


13.0 


12.7 


44.2 


I.I 


2.2 


I 


— 


55.4 


19.4 


19-5 


24.1 




I.O 


3 


— 


23.2 


26.0 


24.6 


44.5 


— 


7-7 


2 


7.0 


20.9 


24-5 


23.0 


42.1 


— 


7.0 



^1 






Col. 



— 3-9 3575 

2836 
2597 
1738 



2554 
2422 



1134 
1034 
2052 

1327 

2289 
2163 



Legislation and Inspection 

Since meats vary so greatly in fat content it is impracticable 
to set standards for percentages of nutrients. Moreover, as 
ordinarily sold by the butcher there is little chance for any such 
robbing of nutrients as is involved in the skimming and watering 
of milk. Standards of quantitative composition have therefore 
not been adopted for meat itself, although there are such stand- 
ards for certain manufactured products of meat as will be seen 
later. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 191 

Standards for meat itself relate chiefly to the healthfulness of 
the animals from which obtained and the sanitary conditions in 
which the meat is handled. These are matters of great im- 
portance. In the preface to their translation of Edelmann's 
Textbook of Meat Hygiene, Mohler and Eichhorn of the United 
States Bureau of Animal Industry write : "Of the various 
classes of foods, meat is one of the most important, and it is 
certainly the one most subject to conditions rendering it un- 
wholesome or even dangerous." 

Not only are certain diseases of animals communicable to 
man through eating of the flesh, but also there is always danger 
through lack of cleanliness in the slaughter house, exposure to 
dust or flies, handling by men who are " carriers " of disease 
germs, or by other accident, that meat may be infected with 
organisms such as the Bacillus enteritidis which according to 
Buchanan multiply in the meat, producing poisonous products 
which are not destroyed by cooking, and which are now con- 
sidered to be the commonest cause of food poisoning, including 
what is ordinarily called ptomaine poisoning. 

The flesh may become infected with Bacillus enteritidis either 
before or after the slaughter of the animal. Veterinary in- 
spection seeks to exclude animals thus infected as well as those 
diseased in other ways. To prevent the infection of the meat 
during slaughter house operations and subsequent handling 
requires strict sanitation. 

Experiments cited by Buchanan ^ have shown that when 
Bacillus enteritidis is placed upon the surface of fresh meat, it 
rapidly penetrates to the interior of the tissues even when the 
meat is stored at a relatively low temperature. 

Since this organism may occur in the intestinal contents and 
feces of even healthy animals it is plain that every precaution 
should be used to see not only that the animal is not diseased 
but also that fecal material is never allowed to come in contact 

1 Household Bacteriology, pages 386-389. 



192 FOOD PRODUCTS 

with the healthy tissues. This means the rigid exclusion of 
flies and a high degree of cleanliness in all the operations. 

Veterinary and sanitary inspection and control of slaughter 
houses and meat packing establishments is therefore extremely 
important. For the establishments which send products into 
interstate or foreign commerce, this is provided by the United 
States Department of Agriculture under the meat inspection 
law of 1906. Official records show that a total of over 55,000,000 
cattle, sheep, goats, and swine are thus inspected annually. 
There are, however, about as many more which are slaughtered 
for food in establishments doing business entirely within one 
state and which therefore do not come under the jurisdiction 
of the national authorities. Thus there is urgent need of ade- 
quate state and municipal inspection to supplement the Federal 
inspection in order to ensure the wholesomeness of all meat sold 
to consumers. 

Only the provisions of the Federal inspection can be discussed 
here. 

Federal meat inspection. In an amendment to the law making 
appropriation for the United States Department of Agriculture 
(Public Number 382, approved June 30, 1906) Congress au- 
thorized the Secretary of Agriculture to provide for inspection 
of all packing houses whose products enter into interstate or 
foreign commerce, to inspect all animals before and after slaugh- 
ter and condemn all carcasses or parts thereof found unfit for 
food. It was provided that inspectors shall have access to all 
parts of the packing houses at all times of the day and night 
to examine all meat food products prepared " and said inspectors 
shall label, mark, stamp, or tag as ' Inspected and Condemned ' 
all such products found unsound, unheal thful, and unwholesome, 
or which contain dyes, chemicals, preservatives, or ingredients 
which render such meat food products unsound, unheal thful, 
unwholesome, or unfit for human food : Provided, that subject 
to the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, the 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 193 

provisions hereof in regard to preservatives shall not apply to 
meat food products for export to any foreign country and which 
are prepared or packed according to the specifications or direc- 
tions of the foreign purchaser, when no substance is used in the 
preparation or packing thereof in conflict with the laws of the 
foreign country to which said article is to be exported." Meats 
from healthy animals prepared in sanitary establishments in 
accordance with all requirements are labeled " Inspected and 
Passed," and only meat products so labeled are allowed in inter- 
state or foreign commerce. The penalties provided for violation 
of this meat inspection law are more severe than those for vio- 
lation of the general food law, and the sum appropriated for 
the work of meat inspection ($3,000,000 a year) is much greater 
than has yet been provided for the enforcement of the Food and 
Drugs Act. 

The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to furnish " certifi- 
cates of exemption " to farmers and retail butchers, who are 
exempted under the law. The regulations governing the meat 
inspection of the United States Department of Agriculture are 
published in Order No. 211 of the Bureau of Animal Industry 
of the Department, to which Bureau is delegated the conduct of 
this work. Among these regulations are detailed require- 
ments as to sanitary arrangements in slaughter and packing 
houses, and the sanitary conduct of all the operations; also 
explicit provision as to what diseases (and in what degrees) 
shall cause a carcass to be condemned, what may be passed, and 
what intermediate grades may be rendered for lard or tallow 
but not used for meat. Condemned meats are treated with 
such colors as would prevent their sale for food, and as soon as 
possible are placed in rendering tanks and " a sufficient force of 
steam is turned into the tank and maintained a sufficient length 
of time effectually to render the contents unfit for any edible 
product." The regulation regarding preservative substances 
and colors provides that common salt, sugar, wood smoke, 



194 FOOD PRODUCTS 

vinegar, pure spices, and saltpeter may be added. Sodium 
benzoate may be used when its presence and amount are shown 
on the label. Only such coloring matters as may be designated 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as being harmless may be used 
and these only in such manner as the Secretary of Agriculture 
may designate. 

The full text of the meat inspection law and some of the 
regulations for its enforcement, especially those which are in 
the nature of requirements as to sanitation, and the sanitary 
handling of meats and other slaughter house products intended 
for food will be found in the Appendix. 

Federal inspection is now (1914) maintained at about 800 
slaughtering and packing establishments. 

The need of adequate state and city meat inspection to sup- 
plement the work of the Federal authorities has already been 
mentioned. This is important both to secure proper conditions 
in local slaughter houses and to insure proper handling of the 
meat in wholesale and retail markets and shops. The flesh 
of a healthy animal should be practically sterile at slaughter, 
and we have seen (page 165) that in good meat kept frozen the 
multipHcation and penetration of bacteria is slow ; but in a recent 
study by Weinzirl and Newton, the bacteria content of Hamburg 
steak as sold was found to range from 269,000 to 525,000,000 
bacteria per gram, about half the samples examined showing 
over 10,000,000. Plainly consumers should demand a more 
careful handling of meat products. 

Standards of Composition for Meat Products 

Meat is defined by the Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists ^ as " any clean, sound, dressed and properly prepared 
edible part of animals in good health at the time of slaughter, 
and if it bears a name descriptive of its kind, composition, or 

^ Standards of Purity for Food Products. Circular No. 19, Office of the Secretary 
United States Department of Agriculture. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 195 

origin., it corresponds thereto." It has already been explained 
that variations in fatness make it impracticable to set stand- 
ards as to actual percentages of nutrients in meat itself. Such 
standards have, however, been established or proposed for a 
number of the manufactured products of meat. 

Sausage, according to a regulation promulgated by the 
Secretary of Agriculture, must not contain cereal in excess of 
2 per cent, nor added water or ice in excess of 3 per cent, and if 
water and cereal in excess of such percentage be present, the 
material should be labeled '' sausage, water, and cereal." 

This standard guards against two forms of adulteration of 
sausage which were more or less prevalent : (i) the direct addi- 
tion of water to tough, fibrous sausage meat which under certain 
mechanical treatment could be made to take up a considerable 
quantity of added water ; (2) the mixing of sausage meat with 
cereal products such as cracker crumbs which are cheaper in the 
first place than meat and which are also capable of absorbing 
much added water, thus adding still further to the weight. In 
order to simulate the appearance of ground meat such cereal 
products are sometimes reddened by means of special dyes 
C' blood color," etc.). 

Beef extract was highly recommended by Liebig, who at one 
time supposed to it be of great nutritive value because it con- 
tained much nitrogen in a form readily absorbed from the 
digestive tract. 

Later he realized that this was an error and said that the 
extract " does not give us strength but makes us aware of our 
strength." In other words he reaUzed that the effect of the 
meat extract is that of a stimulant rather than a food. 

Manufacturers of beef extract still frequently apply the term 
"' Liebig's extract " to their product. 

In South America, especially before the country was thickly 
settled and before facilities for transportation of meat for long 
distances under refrigeration had been introduced, large factories 



196 FOOD PRODUCTS 

for the manufacture of beef extract were established and droves 
of cattle were slaughtered for their hides and the extract ob- 
tained from their flesh, the rest of the flesh being merely a by- 
product. 

Beef is now shipped from South America not only to Europe, 
but also to the United States, where it is now (1913-1914) in 
commercial competition with home-grown beef; but large 
quantities of beef extract are still made in South America and 
it is also of considerable importance as one of the numerous 
secondary products of the beef-packing industry in the United 
States. 

Pieces of meat removed in trimming quarters and sides for 
market, as well as cuts for which there is less market demand, 
are cut small and put in water in a closed digester (generally 
with the addition of salt) and heated under a pressure of ij 
atmospheres of steam for several hours until the extraction is 
judged to be complete, then allowed to cool, the fat removed 
from the surface, and the liquid strained to remove the solid 
pieces. 

The aqueous solution thus obtained may be used either for 
soup stock or for making beef extract. In the latter case the 
liquid is concentrated in a partial vacuum to the consistency 
of a pasty soHd or of a viscous liquid. 

About 35 pounds of meat are supposed to yield i pound of 
concentrated extract which on dilution makes about 7 gallons 
of beef tea. 

Creatin has usually been considered the characteristic nitrogen 
compound of meat extract. Purin bases are, however, als^ 
present and may have greater physiological significance. Potas- 
sium phosphate is the principal salt (unless extra sodium 
chloride has been added) and this doubtless plays a part in 
the stimulating effects of the extract. The acidity of the extract 
is usually attributed to lactic acid. 

The Association of Official Agricultural Chemists has pro- 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 197 

posed the following definitions and standards for meat and bone 
extracts, meat juices, commercial peptones, and gelatin. 

Meat extract is the product obtained by extracting fresh meat 
with boiling water and concentrating the liquid portion by 
evaporation, after removal of the fat, and contains not less than 
75 per cent total soHds, of which not over 27 per cent is ash 
and not over 1 2 per cent is sodium chloride (calculated from the 
total chlorine present) ; not over 0.6 per cent is fat, and not 
less than 8 per cent is nitrogen. The nitrogenous compounds 
contain not less than 40 per cent of meat bases and not less than 
10 per cent of creatin and creatinin. 

Fluid meat extract is identical with (solid) meat extract, except 
that it is concentrated to a lower degree and contains not more 
than 75 per cent and not less than 50 per cent of total solids. 

Bone extract is the product obtained by extracting fresh 
trimmed bones with boiling water and concentrating the liquid 
portion by evaporation after removal of fat, and contains not 
less than 75 per cent of total solids. 

Fluid bone extract is identical with bone extract, except that 
it is concentrated to a lower degree and contains not more than 
75 per cent and not less than 50 per cent of total soHds. 

Meat juice is the fluid portion of muscle fiber, obtained by 
pressure or otherwise, and may be concentrated by evaporation 
at a temperature below the coagulating point of the soluble 
proteins. The solids contain not more than 15 per cent of ash, 
not more than 2.5 per cent of sodium chloride (calculated from 
the total chlorine present), not more than 4 per cent nor less 
than 2 per cent of P2O5, and not less than 12 per cent nitrogen. 
The nitrogenous bodies contain not less than 35 per cent of 
coagulable proteins, and not more than 40 per cent of meat 
bases. 

Peptones are products prepared by the digestion of protein 
material by means of enzymes or otherwise, and contain not 
less than 90 per cent of proteoses and peptones. 



igS 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Gelatin (edible gelatin) is a purified, dried, inodorous product 
of the hydrolysis, by treatment with boiling water, of certain 
tissues, as skin, ligaments, and bones, from sound animals, and 
contains not more than 2 per cent of ash and not less than 15 
per cent of nitrogen. 

Many of the products which have been commonly sold as 
meat extracts and meat juices would not meet the require- 
ments of these definitions and standards. 

Yeast extracts and perhaps other plant extracts are coming 
into increasing use as substitutes for or adulterants of meat 
extracts. Plant extract is distinguished from meat extract by 
the absence of creatin and creatinin. In a recent examination 
of " bouillon cubes "as sold in the United States, Cook finds 
large quantities of salt and a considerable substitution of plant 
extract for meat extract. The results of Cook's analyses are 
as follows (Table 16) : 

Table 16. The Composition of Commercial Bouillon Cubes (Cook) 



Cube 
No.i 



Source of Manufacture 







Approx- 


Salt 


Water 
AND Fat 


imate 
Amount 
OF Meat 
Extract 

PRESENT 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


62 


5-25 


28 


65 


9 


23 


65 


8 


18 


67.S 


5 


17.8 


59-2 


7 


17.8 


49-25 


5-75 


15-33 


53 


4.1 


14.6 


72 


5-5 


14 


72.5 


8.5 


8.33 


72 


8.5 


8.17 



Approx- 
imate 
Amount 
OF Plant 
Extract 

PRESENT 



United States 
Germany . 
United States 
United States 
United States 
United States 
United States 
Germany . 
United States 
United States 



Per cent 

4-75 

3 

9 

9-7 
16 

29.66 
28.3 

8-5 
10.92 

11-33 



1 Cubes arranged in table in order of content of meat extract. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



199 



While regarded as adulterants when found in meat extracts, 
plant extracts may prove to be important food adjuncts on 
account of their " vitamines." It remains to be seen what the 
ultimate status of plant extract will be. 

Nutritive Value of Meats and Meat Products 

Although meats differ greatly in the nutrients which they 
contain, these differences are due in the main to simple varia- 
tions in fatness. The protoplasm of the muscle cells consists 
mainly of proteins swollen and partially dissolved in 3 to 4 times 
their weight of water, in which are small amounts of other 
organic compounds and about i per cent of ash. The fat of 
meat is usually deposited partly in the cells, but more largely 
in the connective tissue between the cells, where it often forms 
layers of considerable thickness. Since fat neither dissolves in 
nor absorbs water, it is evident that the deposition of fat either 
in or between the muscle cells does not alter the composition of 
the actual protoplasm. 

When an animal is killed, the muscular protoplasm coagu- 
lates (rigor mortis), but without essential change in the amount 
or distribution of moisture, protein, or fat. A piece of meat 
may therefore be regarded as mainly a mixture of fat and 
coagulated protoplasm, the latter being chiefly composed of 
protein with 3 to 4 times its weight of water. We should there- 
fore expect the fat-free substance of fresh meat to contain from 
20 to 25 per cent of protein regardless of the amount of fat which 
is or was present. 

In the following table are given the average proximate com- 
position and the percentage of protein in the fat-free substance 
of the entire edible portion of different meats and fish. The 
data are taken from the tables of analyses in Bulletin 28, Office 
of Experiment Stations, the figures for proteins being the mean 
between those given in the bulletin as '' protein by difference " 



200 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



and that obtained by multiplying the percentage of nitrogen 
by 6.25. 

Table 17. Showing Relation of Water, Protein, and Fat in 
Meats (and Fish) 



Kind of Meat or Fish 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Protein in 
Fat-free 




Ptr cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


PercetU 


Beef (fat) .... 


59-7 


17-75 


22.0 


0.9 


22.8 


Beef (lean) . 








67.2 


19.0 


13.2 


0.9 


21.9 


Veal . . . 








71-3 


19.9 


8.1 


I.O 


21.7 


Mutton . . 








53.6 


16.0 


29.8 


0.8 


22.8 


Lamb . . . 








58.2 


17.6 


23.1 


I.I 


22.9 


Pork ... 








34-4 


9-5 


55-3 


0-5 


21.3 


Fowls . . . 








63-7 


19.2 


16.3 


1.0 


22.9 


Bass . . . 








77-7 


i8.4S 


2.8 


1.2 


19.0 


Blackfish . 








79.1 


18.6 


1-3 


I.I 


18.8 


Halibut . . 








75-4 - 


18.5 


5-2 


1.0 


19-5 


Salmon . 








64.6 


21.6 


12.8 


1.4 


26.6 


Shad . . . 








70.6 


18.7 


95 


1-3 


20.7 


Trout (lake) 








70.8 


17-75 


10.3 


1.2 


19.8 



In some species the water content of the tissues changes 
markedly with age, but among the meats which play any im- 
portant part in the diet high fat content is associated with de- 
creased percentages of both water and protein, the ratio of 
water to protein, or the percentage of protein in the fat-free 
substance, being nearly the same for the different species, the 
young and mature of the same species, and the different degrees 
of fatness. This of course does not mean that all cuts of meat 
free from visible fat are of the same composition, for the manner 
in which the fat is deposited in the muscles differs somewhat 
with the species. Beef fat is mainly in distinct layers which 
can be mechanically separated from the lean, while in pork and 
some other meats, the fat exists largely as minute layers, in- 
visible to the naked eye, surrounding the individual muscle 
fibers and not separable by ordinary mechanical means. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 201 

Among the fish, the differences in the protein content of the 
fat-free substance are larger, and the protein content appears 
not to be diminished in those cases in which the fat content is 
higher. In general the muscular protoplasm of the fatter kinds 
of fish is about as rich in protein as the protoplasm of meats, 
while among the leaner kinds of fish the muscular protoplasm 
is more watery. 

The fuel value of meat or fish is very directly dependent 
upon its fatness; a gram of clear fat has a fuel value of 
about 9 Calories, whereas a gram of clear lean containing 
about one fourth gram protein has a fuel value of but 
I Calorie. 

The amount of glycogen present in muscular tissue as usually 
marketed is too small to be of significance in determining the 
food value. Some kinds of meats tend to be richer in glycogen 
than others, horse-flesh than beef for example. 

The fats vary somewhat in composition both as between 
different species and different organs of the same species, but 
so far as is known, these variations in the composition of the 
fat are of little nutritive significance. 

Protein. As between muscle protein and gelatin, there are 
pronounced differences. It has long been known that gelatin 
alone cannot meet the entire protein requirement of the animal 
body. Since the development of methods for the isolation of 
individual amino acids from the products of hydrolysis of pro- 
teins, this deficiency in food value of gelatin has been correlated 
with the absence of certain amino-acid radicles, conspicuously 
tryptophan. • 

The amounts of amino acids thus far isolated from beef 
protein and from gelatin are compared in Table 18. 

Opinions vary as to whether there are significant differences 
in the extractives of different kinds of meat. Hutchison and 
Gautier hold that there are no well-marked differences,' while 
Wiley reports comparative analyses of light and dark meat of 



202 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



fowls according to which the dark meat is much richer in " meat 
bases " than the light. 

Table i8. Amino Acids from Beef and Gelatin 



Glycin 

Alanin 

Valin 

Leucin 

Prolin 

Oxyprolin .... 
Phenylalanin . . . 
Aspartic acid . . 
Glutamic acid . . 

Serin 

Tyrosin .... 
Arginin .... 
Histidin .... 

Lysin 

Ammonia .... 

Tryptophan . . . 

Summation 



Beef Protein 



Per cent 
2.06 
3-72 
0.81 

11.65 
5.82 

3-15 

4-51 

1549 

2.20 

7-47 
1.76 

7-59 

1.07 

present 



67.30 



Gelatin 



Per cent 

16.S 
0.8 
I.O 

9.2 

10.4 

3-0 
1.0 
1.2 
16.8 
0.4 
0.0 
7.6 
0.4 
6.0 
0.4 
absent 



73-7 



Among the extractives, creatin is most conspicuous, con- 
stituting about 0.25 per cent of the fresh weight of lean meat 
and being ordinarily the most abundant organic substance 
of meat extract. It is probable, however, that the properties 
of meat extract are due less to the creatin than to the purins 
and potash salts. 

Purins exist in meat both " free " (as in the form of hypoxan- 
thin, adenin, guanin) and '' bound " as constituents of the 
nucleoproteins. Hall has determined the amounts of nitrogen 
existing as free and as bound purin in some different meats with 
the results shown in Table 19. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



203 



Table 19. Purins in Different Meats (Hall) 





Nitrogen in Form 01 






" Free " purins 


" Bound " purins 


Total purins 




Per cent 


Per cent 


Percent 


Beef 


0.0460 


0.0070 


0-053 


Veal 


0.0430 


O.OIOO 


0-053 


Ham 


0.0398 


0.0064 


0.046 


Chicken 


0.0348 


0.0147 


0.049 


Codfish ../.... 


0.0299 


0.0106 


0.040 


Liver 


0.0330 


0.0790 


O.112 


Sweetbread 


0.0420 


0.3510 


0-393 



It will be seen that the amount of purin nitrogen is about 
the same for the muscular flesh of the different kinds, even 
including fish, but is much higher in the liver and sweetbread 
on account of the relatively large amount of nucleoproteins in 
the highly nucleated secreting cells of these organs. 

Ash constituents of meats. Clear lean meat consisting es- 
sentially of muscle tissue contains about i per cent of ash; 
clear fat has hardly any. The proportion of total ash or of any 
given ash constituent is therefore largely dependent upon the 
fatness of the meat and runs more or less parallel with the per- 
centage of protein present. While the ash constituents of the 
muscle tissue probably differ somewhat with different species 
and with the same species at different ages, yet recent analyses 
indicate that such differences are much smaller than the usually 
quoted data would indicate. After study of all the data at 
present available, it seems best not to assume any distinct and 
constant differences in the ash constituents of the lean tissue 
of different animals, but to estimate that the ash constituents 
of meats in general will be proportional to the protein content. 
Average meat is calculated to contain per 100 grams of protein 
about as follows: CaO, 0.075 gram; MgO, 0.2 gram; K2O, 2.0 



204 FOOD PRODUCTS 

grams ; Na20, 0.4 gram ; P2O5, 2.3 grams ; CI, 0.2 gram ; S, 0.9 
gram; Fe, 0.015 gram. 

In all meats there is a decided excess of the acid-forming 
over the base-forming elements. For equal degrees of fatness, 
the different kinds of meat appear to be practically alike in this 
respect. 

Digestibility of meat. Meat protein is usually digested quite 
rapidly and shows a high percentage of absorption from the 
digestive tract, the average " coefficient of digestibility " being 
about the same for the protein of meat, milk, and eggs, viz., 97 
to 98 per cent. The extractives of meat probably aid to some 
extent the digestion of the proteins by stimulating the flow 
of gastric juice. In a series of seven experiments in which 
extracted beef constituted a large part of the diet, the average 
coefficient of digestibiHty of the meat protein was 92 per cent. 
This decreased digestibility may have been due in part to the 
rather large amount of meat eaten (300 grams per day), but 
was probably at least in part attributable to the withdrawal 
of the extractives. 

Mendel and Fine have recently reported ^ a series of digestion 
experiments with dogs in which the utilization of the protein 
of extracted meat fiber ranged from 89.3 to 91.3 per cent, while 
that of fresh meat was 93.7 to 94.5 per cent, leading them to the 
conclusion that the utilization of the nitrogen (protein) of the 
extractive-free meat powder '' is distinctly, although slightly, 
lower than that of fresh meat." 

The digestibility of the fat of meat is influenced by the amount 
eaten and its mechanical condition, whether in large or small 
masses. In favorable circumstances 95 per cent or more of 
the fat of meat is digested and utilized. 

The relative digestibility of meats as the term is used popularly, 
and in medical writings, is apt to refer to the length of time 
that the meat remains in the stomach. Penzolt experimented 

^Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. ii, pages 5-9. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



205 



by feeding different articles of food and after different intervals 
withdrawing the stomach contents by means of a stomach- 
tube. From the results of such experiments he constructed 
a table indicating the time which must elapse after taking a 
stated amount of a given food until it has entirely left the stomach. 
These results are widely quoted, especially in books on dietetics. 

The length of time which meat remains in the stomach may 
vary considerably, depending upon such factors as the fat con- 
tent, method of cooking, thoroughness of mastication, etc., 
but the ultimate utilization, at least by healthy persons, is 
much more nearly alike. 

In a recent discussion of the extended series of experiments 
made under the auspices of the United States Department of 
Agriculture, Langworthy states : " There was nothing in the 
results of the experiments to indicate that any one variety of 
meat or any one cut of meat has any very great advantage 
over others in this respect." 

Grindley found that differences in the rate of gastric digestion 
as between meats cooked in different ways, could be detected 
in artificial digestion experiments when the experiments were 
of sufficiently short duration, but practically disappeared in 
artificial experiments of longer duration, and in the coefficients 
of digestibility obtained in actual experiments with healthy men. 

Food value of meat broths and extracts. The extractives of 
meat are stimulating, and for this reason may be useful additions 
to the dietary, but they have almost no food value. The creatin 
and purins of meat extracts may be oxidized to some extent 
in the body, but the energy derived from this source is negligible. 

Meat broths may be so prepared as to contain some of the 
coagulable protein as well as the extractives, but Grindley in 
a long series of experiments never succeeded in obtaining more 
than 13 per cent of the true protein of the meat in the broth, 
and in the average obtained only 7 per cent, so that it is evident 
that at best the broths must be of but limited food value and 



2o6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

that the residual meat, even though tasteless, still retains by far 
the greatest part of the food value. 

Some so-called meat extracts partake more or less of the 
nature of condensed broths, containing coagulated protein 
with the extractives, some contain proteoses or peptone, and 
some are enriched with dried and ground meat. Preparations 
of condensed meat juice and some consisting essentially of 
condensed blood are also commercially available. Many of 
these products are described by Hutchison in his Food and 
Dietetics y and by Bigelow and Cook in Bulletin 114 of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture. 

Food value cf gelatin. It has already been pointed out that 
gelatin alone cannot maintain protein equilibrium in nutrition. 
It is, however, not simply a " protein-sparer " as it was formerly 
called. Gelatin is a true protein, but not " complete " as a pro- 
tein food, the '' incompleteness " of food value being doubtless 
due to the absence of certain amino-acid radicles, conspicu- 
ously tryptophan, in the gelatin molecule. If one were to 
depend very largely upon gelatin as food, it would be impor- 
tant that some other proteins, such as those of milk, rich in 
the particular amino acids which gelatin lacks, should also be 
represented in the diet. 

Relative Economy of Different Cuts of Meat 

It is hardly possible to generaUze in regard to the relative 
economy of the meats of different species, because of the wide 
variations of price in different localities, and because of the dif- 
ferent significance of lean and fat meats as food. 

It is, however, instructive to consider the relative economy of 
different cuts from the same animal, especially in the case of 
beef. This has recently been studied in some detail by Hall 
and Emmett,^ an abstract of whose data and discussion follows : 

* Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 158. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



207 



In the experiments at the IlHnois station, three each of choice and prime 
steers from the university herd were slaughtered and determinations made 
of : (i) the relative proportions of lean, visible fat, and bone in each of the 
retail and wholesale cuts of beef ; (2) the chemical composition and nutritive 
value of the boneless meat of the various wholesale cuts ; and (3) the net 
cost to the consumer of the lean, the gross meat, and the food nutrients in 
each cut at current market prices. 

The relative cost of the lean and of the total meat in the straight wholesale 
cuts at market prices is shown in Table 20, 

Table 20. Cost of Lean and of Total Meat in the Straight 
Wholesale Cuts at Market Prices 





Wholesale 


Cost per 


Cost per 


Straight Wholesale Cuts 


Price per 


Pound of Lean 


Pound of Total 




Pound of Cut 


IN Cut 


Meat in Cut 




Cents 


Cents 


Cents 


Loin 


18.5 


31.6 


20.5 


Rib 


15.0 


27.1 


17.S 


Round 


11.5 


17.8 


139 


Chuck 


95 


137 


10.8 


Plate 


8.0 


15.8 


8.7 


Flank. 


8.0 


22.0 


8.0 


Fore shank 


5.0 


lo.S 


8.4 



The net cost per pound of lean is, in general, greatest in the cuts which com- 
mand the highest prices, and vice versa. The flank is an exception to this 
rule, and the chuck is more economical in this respect than the plate. Re- 
ferring to the last column, it is also observed that the more expensive the 
cut, the greater the cost per pound of visible fat and lean combined, the flank 
being the only exception. From these figures it is apparent that food values 
of beef cuts do not correspond to their wholesale market prices, and that the 
cheaper cuts are by far the most economical sources of both lean and fat 
meat. On the whole, the different cuts vary more widely in net cost of food 
ingredients than in market price per pound of gross meat. The following 
discussion tends to confirm these statements. 

The manner of cutting and the location of the different retail cuts are 
shown in Fig. 16, 



208 



FOOD PRODUCTS 




ffump 

/ /?ump 
/?oc//7a/-ru/77p & s/7a/?/r o/pf 

3-/3 /?ou/7c/'S/ea/rs. *■ 
/4z /i'oc//?a/ s/<^a>A; /as/ a/ A 
/S /</7ucA/e ySOi//:>/>o/7&. 
/6 /=h/rx?af^/. 
////7a/.s/7a/7A'. 
/7,/ff3oup So/7e'S. 
/S //oc/csoup Aooe. 
UO/A/ 

/ Bc/ZAe/pc/ s/r/o/h s/et?Xr. 

2 Wec^e - A7/7<? s/r/o/r? sAsx?A: 
3,4 /?ou/7£/-/)o/7e^/r/d//7sAs'a/('. 
S,G /?ou/>/°-/?oA>ie^/7b//?yS/h*^A'. 
7 ///p-/?cv7& s/z/o//? s/e^/r. 

3 ///p-/?o/?G por/er^use ^Asv/A-. 
9-/3 /F<°^u/9/-por-/<^rj^ouse' s/e-a/c, 
/6-/8 C/^/, s/e^Ps. 

r/.y^A//r 

/ /7<!^/7ps/e^/c. 
2 S/e^y^. 



//^^a:/2^/^ P>/6 roasA 
3^/'& /0<^ /?/b /vasA 

6\^ /?//^ roas/. 



/^o/p/e: QUA/?T£r/p 

fr/a 

/ 

2 

3 

o//c/o/< 

/ S^'' P?//, ro^s/ 
2-3 C/?uc/r s/ecf/csS, 
/0-/3 Po/roo's/^. 
/4 C/oc/. 
/5 /Vecr/r. 
/='/./^TiEr 

/ Sr/sAi^A 
2 'A/ai>^&/. 
3,4 /?/S &/?£/s. 

/^o/P£rs//.AA//< 

/ S/ekV. 

2 /07uc/c/s SO£^ ^?0/?G^ 

3^ 3oup />o/?es. 



Fig. i6. — Retail cuts of beef. (Hall and Emmett.) Courtesy of Illinois Ex- 
periment Station and United States Department of Agriculture. 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



Retail Cuts 



209 



Loin cuts. Loin steaks averaged 59 per cent lean, 32 per cent visible fat, 
and 9 per cent bone. Sirloin steaks in general contained a greater propor- 
tion of lean and smaller proportion of fat than porterhouse and club steaks. 

Rib cuts. Rib roasts contained, on the average, 55 per cent lean, 30 per 
cent visible fat, and 15 per cent bone. The greatest percentage of lean was 
found in the sixth rib roast, and the smallest in the eleventh and twelfth rib 
cut. 

Round cuts. The various cuts made from the round averaged 65 per cent 
lean, 18 per cent visible fat, and 17 per cent bone. Round steaks contained 
74 to 84 per cent lean, the rump roast 49 per cent, round pot roast 85 per cent, 
and soup bones 8 to 66 per cent. The maximum percentage of fat was found 
in the rump roast, and the maximum percentage of bone in the hock soup 
bone. 

Plate cuts. The brisket, navel, and rib ends averaged 51 per cent lean, 
41 per cent fat, and 8 per cent bone. The brisket and navel were similar in 
proportions of the different constituents, but the rib ends were slightly higher 
in percentage of bone and lower in lean. 

Flank cuts. The flank steak contained 83 per cent lean and 16 per cent 
fat ; and the flank stew, 64 per cent lean and 35 per cent fat. 

Fore shank cuts. Soup bones from the fore shank varied from 1 7 to 69 per 
cent lean and from 25 to 75 per cent bone. The boneless shank stew con- 
tained 83 per cent lean and 17 per cent visible fat. 

Retail trimmings. Trimming the loin steaks reduced their weight 1 2 per 
cent, and the trimmings were about four fifths fat and one fifth bone. 
Round and chuck steaks were reduced but 5 per cent in weight by trimming, 
only fat being taken from the former as a rule and principally bone from the 
latter. Other cuts that were materially affected by cutting off surplus fat 
and bone were the rump, shoulder pot roast, and neck. 

Relative Economy of the Various Retail Cuts 

From the proportions of lean, fat, and bone in the different cuts, their rela- 
tive economy at retail market prices may be determined. The net cost of 
lean meat is an approximate index of the relative economy of steaks and 
roasts, since they are purchased and used primarily for the lean they contain ; 
but in comparing boiling, stewing, and similar meats the cost of gross meat, or 
fat and lean combined, should be more largely considered, because the- fat is 
more completely utflized, as in the case of meat loaf, hash. Hamburger, and 
corned beef. Soup bones, being valued for flavoring matter as well as for the 
p 



2IO FOOD PRODUCTS 

nutritive substance they contain, are more difficult to compare with other 
cuts in respect to relative economy. They vary materially, however, in 
proportions of edible meat and waste, and should therefore be studied in this 
connection. 

The following table (Table 21) shows the cost of lean and of total meat in 
the various retail cuts at market prices. 

Taking the net cost of the lean meat as a basis of comparison, we learn from 
these data that the most expensive steaks at the prices given are the porter- 
house cuts, followed by the club, sirloin, flank, round, and chuck steaks. Of 
the different roasts, the first-cut prime ribs are the most costly in terms of 
lean meat, and the rump roast is the most economical. The various boiling 
and stewing pieces furnish lean meat more economically at market prices 
than either the roasts or steaks, the rib ends and brisket being the dearer cuts 
of this class, while the neck and shank stews are relatively cheapest. Several 
of the soup bones are very economical sources of lean meat, particularly the 
middle cuts of both shanks, and only one of them is extremely expensive even 
on this basis. In general the wide variation between the various cuts in net 
cost of lean is remarkable, ranging from 7.5 cents in one of the soup bones 
to 40.5 cents in a prime rib roast, and up to 62.5 cents in the hock soup bone, 
the latter, however, being used primarily for its flavoring substance rather 
than for lean meat. It will be observed, also, that the market prices of the 
cheaper cuts correspond much more closely to their net cost of lean meat 
than is true of the higher-priced steaks and roasts. 

The net cost per pound of gross meat, or lean and fat combined, varies much 
less as between the different cuts than does the net cost per pound of lean, 
because the proportions of total meat are more nearly uniform than the per- 
centages of lean. The various steaks and roasts rank in substantially the 
same order as to relative economy on this basis as on the basis of lean meat. 
TheTrib roasts, however, are considerably more economical as compared with 
the porterhouse and sirloin steaks when all the edible meat is considered. 
The rump shows a very low cost per pound of edible meat, due to the large 
proportion of fat it contains ; and a still further difference is noticed in the 
case of the rib ends, brisket, navel, flank, neck, and several of the soup-bone 
cuts. The stewing meats are generally the most economical sources of 
edible meat at these prices, while porterhouse steaks are the most expensive. 

On the whole, the data clearly show that the cheaper cuts of beef are by far 
the most economical sources both of lean and of total edible meat, including 
fat and lean. . . . No correlation exists between market prices and the pro- 
portion of flavoring substances contained in various portions of the carcass, 
and cooking tests indicate that the proportion of waste and shrinkage is not 
necessarily greater in the cheaper than in the more expensive cuts. It is 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



211 



Table 21. 



Cost of Lean and of Total Meat in the Various 
Retail Cuts at Market Prices 



Retail Cuts 


Diagram 
Number 
(Fig. 16) 


Retail 

Price per 

Pound of 

Cut 


Cost per 

Pound of 

Lean Meat 

IN Cut 


Cost per 
Pound of 
Lean and 
Fat Meat 
IN Cut 




• 


Cents 


Cents 


Cents 


Steaks : 










Porterhouse, hip bone . . 


8 


25 


38.6* 


28.9 


Porterhouse, regular . . . 


10 


25 


40.2 


27.2 


Club steak ..:... 


18 


20 


32.1 


22.6 


Sirloin, butt end . . . , 


I 


20 


2S-3 


20.6 


Sirloin, round bone . . . 


3 


20 


28.3 


21. 1 


Sirloin, double bone . . . 


5 


20 


28.7 


22.7 


Sirloin, hip bone . . . . 


7 


20 


32-3 


24.2 


Flank steak 


I 


16 


19-3 


16,0 


Round, first cut . . . . 


2 


15 


17.0 


iS-3 


Round, middle cut . . . 


6 


15 


17-3 


1S.6 


Round, last cut .... 


14 


IS 


193 


16.0 


Chuck, first cut ... . 


2 


12 


18.3 


14.1 


Chuck, last cut . . . . 


9 


12 


iS-7. 


131 


Roasts: 










Prime ribs, first cut . . . 


I 


20 


40. s 


22.9 


Prime ribs, last cut . . . 


4 


16 


26.1 


18.8 


Chuck, fifth rib ... . 


I 


IS 


22.8 


17-3 


Rump 


I 


12 


19.4 


12.8 


Boiling and stewing pieces : 










Round pot roast .... 


16 


10 


11.6 


lO.I 


Shoulder clod 


14 


10 


12.3 


10.5 


Shoulder pot roast . . . 


II 


10 


14-3 


11.6 


Rib ends 


3 


8 


16.2 


9.2* 


Brisket 


I 


8 


15.0 


8.7 


Navel 


2 


7 


12.8 


7-7 


Flank stew 


2 


7 


10.9 


7-1 


Fore shank stew .... 


I 


7 


8.S 


7.0 


Neck 


IS 


6 


8.S 


7.0 


Soup bones 










Round, knuckle .... 


2 


S 


26.3 


12. 5 


Hind shank, middle cut . . 


18 


S 


7-S 


6.3 


Hind shank, hock . . . 


19 


5 


62.S 


26.6 


Fore shank, knuckle . . . 


2 


S 


17.2 


1-2. 5 


Fore shank, middle cut . . 


4 


s 


12.5 


9.4 


Fore shank, end .... 


6 


s 


28.8 


20.9 



212 FOOD PRODUCTS 

evident, therefore, that retail prices of beef cuts are determined chiefly by 
considerations other than their food value, such as tenderness, grain, color, 
general appearance, and convenience of cooking. ... To such an extreme 
has this condition developed that a portion of the carcass (loins and ribs), 
forming only about one fourth of its weight, represents nearly one half of its 
retail cost. In view of the large place which meat occupies in the American 
diet, amounting to nearly one third of the average expenditure for all food, 
the importance of an intelligent understanding of the subject on the part of 
the consumer is readily apparent. 

Not only are the foregoing statements true of meat producers and con- 
sumers as individuals, but it is highly essential to the entire beef-cattle 
industry, on the one hand, and the economic welfare of the beef-eating public, 
on the other, that a more intelligent understanding of the different cuts of 
meat be acquired by consumers generally. An increased demand for those 
portions of the carcass which are now difficult for the butcher to dispose of 
would contribute largely toward a more stable condition of the trade and thus 
enable the producer to operate with greater confidence and economy. At 
the same time it would effect a tremendous saving to the consumer. . . . 
There seems to be no relation between market prices and the percentages of 
fat, protein, extractives, and ash. The cheaper cuts appear to be as valuable 
and in some cases actually more so than the higher priced cuts from the stand- 
point of protein and of energy. These statements do not take into account 
the factors of tenderness nor the influence the degree of fatness may have 
upon the palatability of cooked meat. In purchasing meat for protein 
primarily, the neck, shanks, and clod are the most economical cuts; the 
plate, chuck, flank, and round follow ; with the rump, rib, and loin as the 
most expensive. From the standpoint of fuel value, the flank, plate, neck, 
and shank cuts are the cheapest, while the rib, loin, and round are the most 
expensive. Considering both factors, protein and fuel value, and along with 
these the adaptability of the meat for general use the clod, chuck, and plate 
are the most economical cuts at the retail prices given. 

Place of Meat in the Diet 

Authorities seem to agree in the estimate that in the United 
States about one third of the total expenditure for food materials 
is for meat. 

Roberts of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
using data from the census of 1900, estimated the yearly per 
capita consumption of meat in this country as follows : 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 213 

POXWDS 
Beef 78.71 

Veal \:^^ 

Pork (including hams and bacon) 88.12 

Mutton and lamb 8.57 

Total meat per capita 178.75 

The total meat consumption per capita for several of the 
European countries as estimated for the same year by Rew of 
the Royal Statistical Society, England, as quoted by Roberts, 
was: 

Poinros 

Great Britain and Ireland 122 

Germany gg 

France 80 

Sweden and Norway 62 

Denmark 76 

Belgium 70 

That the per capita consumption of meat in the United States 
is almost half as high again as in the United Kingdom and fully 
twice as high as on the continent of Europe is perhaps not 
generally known, and is certainly a very significant fact worthy 
of more attention than it has yet received. 

What are the reasons for the exceptionally high rate of meat 
consumption in America, and is this departure from the practice 
of the older countries an improvement ? 

The flavor of meat is well liked by most people, its extractives 
certainly stimulate the flow of the digestive juices and probably 
have some stimulating action upon the body generally. Meat is 
a food quickly cooked and (in general) readily digested, and tra- 
dition (both popular and scientific) associates meat-eating with 
muscular stamina, vigor, and initiative, with success in the chase 
in earlier days and in more recent generations with success and 
prosperity generally. With this attitude toward meat as a food, 
Europeans coming to America and finding here a more abundant 
supply of meat than that to which they had been accustomed, 
have naturally made meat a larger part of their diet than it was 



214 ' FOOD PRODUCTS 

or is in the countries from which they came. So long as game 
was abundant, pasturage unhmited, and a relatively small 
proportion of the land was under systematic cultivation, meat 
was cheap as compared with other foods. Now that game has 
become a negligible factor in the food supply, and there is no 
longer free pasturage, the production of meat involves feeding 
the animals with farm crops, especially grain. Since only a 
fraction of the nutrients of the grain is converted into, and 
retained as, body material by the animal, and scarcely half the 
total body weight of the animal is utilized as food for man, it 
is evident that the meat will be a much more costly food than, 
for instance, the grain which if not fed to the animal might have 
been utilized directly as human food. In the nature of the case, 
meat must always be an expensive food wherever frontier con- 
ditions have ceased to exist. Thus the purely economic ground 
for a high per capita consumption of meat in the United States 
is no longer tenable. Is it probable that the eating of such a 
large amount of meat is physiologically advantageous ? 

For people whose occupations are largely sedentary or at 
any rate do not involve much vigorous muscular exercise, a too 
liberal use of meat may bring on uric acid disorders or may 
result in excessive intestinal putrefaction. The purin substances 
which give rise to uric acid in the body are much more abundant 
in meats than in other staple foods, and it seems also well estab- 
Hshed that meat proteins are more susceptible to putrefaction 
in the intestine, giving rise to absorption of putrefactive products 
which are more or less injurious (" autointoxication "), than are 
the proteins of most other foods. Thus the two chief objections 
to a high-protein diet are more applicable to meat than to other 
high-protein foods. Another fact to be borne in mind is that 
the meats contain a large excess of acid-forming over base- 
forming elements. In a mixed diet containing a limited amount 
of meat this is easily offset by foods in which the base-forming 
elements predominate, but when the amount of meat eaten is 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



215 



too large, there may result an excessive preponderance of acid- 
forming elements in the diet as a whole. This subject, as well 
as that of intestinal putrefaction, will be referred to again in the 
discussion of the place of vegetables in the diet (Chapter IX). 

It is difficult to balance the advantages and disadvantages of 
meat as a food and to reach a confident conclusion as to just 
how prominent a place it should have in the diet, both because 
so many factors enter into the problem and because so many 
of those who have studied the subject and published their con- 
clusions appear to have been more or less influenced by contro- 
versial bias engendered by the vegetarian propaganda. The 
following quotation from Tiger stedt represents an opinion which 
seems neither radical nor reactionary. 

" From a purely physiological point of view, we can find no 
reason why a healthy man should forego the use of so excellent 
an article of food, considered with respect to its content of 
protein and fat, or its eminent adaptability, as we know meat to 
be. But in so stating, I do not wish to be understood as saying 
that one should eat any quantity of meat he pleases, or should 
cover too much of his requirements with meat.^ In too large 
quantities the extractive substances found in meat may possibly 
produce disorders of one kind or another in the body. The 
metabolism might also take an abnormal or unfavorable form, 
if the fluids of the body were flooded with too much protein." 
This moderate and conservative warning against too free a use 
of meat as food was written, it is important to remember, in 
a Scandanavian textbook and was therefore addressed to those 
whose average rate of meat consumption was less than half 
as much as ours. 

On the whole, it seems reasonable to conclude both from such 
general considerations as have just been suggested and from the 
results of statistical and experimental studies too detailed for 
discussion here, that a reduction of our meat consumption to 
something like half the present amount (i.e. to about what has 



2l6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

been reached through the longer experience of the European 
nations) is desirable on both economic and physiological grounds. 
When one sixth instead of one third of the total expenditure 
for food is for meats, the dietary is usually both more economical 
and better balanced. 

REFERENCES 
I 

Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Materials. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 

Bulletin 28 (Revised). 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

KoNiG. Chemie der menschliche Nahrungs- und Genussmittel. 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Leighton and Douglas. The Meat Industry and Meat Inspection. 
Mitchell. Flesh Foods. 
OsTERTAG. Handbook of Meat Inspection. 
Wilder. The Modern Packing House. 
Wiley. Foods and Their Adulteration. 
Wiley and Bigelow. Preserved Meats. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 10. ' 



II 

Roberts. Annual Production of Animals for Food and Per Capita Con- 
sumption of Meat in the United States. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 2 2d Annual Report, 
pages 277-290 (1905). 

Trowbridge and Grindley. Proteins of Beef Flesh. Journal of the 
American Chemical Society, Vol. 28, pages 469-505 (1906). 

Fisher. The Influence of Flesh Eating on Endurance. Yale Medical 
Journal, Vol. 13, pages 205-221 (1907). 

Fisher. Effect of Diet on Endurance. Transactions of the Connecticut 
Academy of Arts and Sciences, Vol. 13, pages 1-46 (1907). 

Grindley. Studies of the Effect of Different Methods of Cooking upon 
the Thoroughness and Ease of Digestion of Meat. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, Bulletin 193 
(1907). 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 



217 



Holmes. Meat Supply and Surplus. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Bureau of Statistics, Bulletin 55 (1907). 
Little and Harris. A Study of the Metabolism of a Healthy Vegetarian 
(Meat Abstainer). Biochemical Journal, Vol. 2, pages 230-239 (1907). 
Sprague and Grindley. A Precise Method of Roasting Beef. Univer- 
sity of Illinois, Bulletin 4 (19), May 15, 1907. 
BiGELOW and Cook. Meat Extracts and Similar Preparations. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 114 
(1908). 
Farrington. The Need of State and Municipal Meat Inspection to Sup- 
plement Federal Inspection. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 154 (1908). 
Gamgee. Are Yeast Extracts Justifiable as Substitutes for Meat Extracts ? 

British Medical Journal, No. 2486, pages 449-452 (1908). 
Melvin. The Federal Meat Inspection Service. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 125 (1908). 
MiCKO. Occurrence of Monamino-acids in Meat Extract. Zeitschrift 

fur physiologische Chemie, Vol. 56, pages 180-21 1 (1908). 
Richardson and Scherubel. The Deterioration and Commercial Pres- 
ervation of Flesh Foods. Journal American Chemical Society, Vol. 
30, pages 1515-1564 (1908). 
Regulations Governing Meat Inspection. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Order No. 150 (1908). 
Emmett and Grindley. A Preliminary Study of the Effect of Cold Stor- 
age upon Beef and Poultry. Journal of Industrial and Engineering 
Chemistry, Vol. i, pages 413-436, 580-597 (1909). 
HoAGLAND. The Action of Saltpeter upon the Color of Meat. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 25th 
Annual Report, pages 301-314 (1908). 
Parks. The Sanitary Construction and Equipment of Abattoirs and 
Packing Houses. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 
of Animal Industry, 26th Annual Report, pages 247-264 (1909). 
Richardson and Scherubel. Deterioration and Commercial Preserva- 
tion of Flesh Foods, II. The Storage of Beef at Temperatures above 
the Freezing Point. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, 
Vol. I, pages 95-102 (1909). 
Beck. Assimilation of Blood as Food. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der 

Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 20, pages 455-463 (1910). 
Cook. A Comparison of Beef and Yeast Extracts of Known Origin. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Circular 62 
(1910). 



2l8 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Imabuchi. Nutritive Value of Blood Proteins. Zeitschrift fiir physiolo- 
gische Chemie, Vol. 64, pages 1-9 (1910). 

Wagner and Clement. Composition of Soup Tablets. Zeitschrift fiir Unter- 
suchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 18, pages 314-319 (19 10). 

Buxton. Some Postmortem Alterations of Meat. Journal Hoyal Institute 
of Public Health,' Vol. 19, pages 460-469 (1911). 

Hall. Market Classes and Grades of Meat. Illinois Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 147 (191 1). 

McBride. Commercial Methods of Canning Meats. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1911, 383-390 (1911). 

Thompson, Caldwell, and Wallace. Nutritive Effects of Beef Extract. 
British Medical Journal, 191 1, II, pages 613-619 (191 1). 

VoLTZ and Baudrexel. Meat Extracts in Digestion and Metabolism. 
Archiv fiir die gesamte Physiologic (Pfliiger), Vol. 138, pages 275-291 
(1911). 

Bennett. The Purins of Muscle. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 
Vol. II, pages 221-234 (1912). 

Bitting. The Canning of Foods. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 151 (191 2). 

Bugge and Kiebig. The Bacterial Content of the Flesh of Normal 
Beeves. Zeitschrift fiir Fleisch und Milch Hygiene, Vol. 22, pages 
69-80 (191 2). 

Hall and Emmett. Relative Economy, Composition and Nutritive Value 
of the Various Cuts of Beef. Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station, 
Bulletin 158 (191 2). 

RuDNiCK. The Chemist in the Service of the Packing-House. Original 
Communications, 8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, 
Vol. 18, pages 309-312 (1912). 

Thiele. The Manufacture of Gelatin. Journal of Industrial and Engi- 
neering Chemistry, Vol. 4, pages 446-451 (1912). 

Wright. Chemical and Bacteriological Study of Fresh and Frozen New 
Zealand Lamb and Mutton. Journal of the Society of Chemical In- 
dustry, Vol. 31, pages 965-967 (191 2). 

Mendel and Fine. Utilization of Protein of Extractive-free Meat Powder. 
Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 11, pages 5-26 (191 2). 

MiJLLER. Meat Poisoning with Relation to Intravital and Postmortem In- 
fection of the Meat. Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie und Parasiten- 
kunde, i Abtheil, Vol. 6, pages 222-240 (191 2). 

SiEWERT and Zebrowski. The Comparative Effect of Light and Dark 
Meat upon the Excretion of Uric Acid. Zeitschrift fiir klinische Medi- 
zin, Vol. 75, pages 331-358 (191 2). 



MEATS AND MEAT PRODUCTS 219 

Cook. Bouillon Cubes : Their Contents and Food Value Compared with 
Meat Extracts and Home-made Preparations of Meat. Bulletin of 
the United States Department of Agriculture, No. 27 (1913). 

Feder. a Basis for Detecting the Excessive Addition of Water to Chopped 
Meat Products. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Ge- 
nussmittel, Vol. 25, pages 577-588 (1913)- 

Langworthy and Hunt. Mutton and its Value in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 526 (1913). 

MouLTON. Changes in Composition of Mature Beef Animals during Fat- 
tening. Proceedings 8th International Congress of AppUed Chemistry, 
Vol. 26, pages 157-168 (1913). 

Ottolenghi. Studies of the Ripening and Decomposition of Meat. Zeit- 
schrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 26, 
pages 728-758 (1913). 

Wright. Chemistry in Relation to the Frozen Meat Industry of New 
Zealand. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 5, 
pages 673-674 (1913)- 

Weinzirl and Newton. Bacteriological Analyses of Hamburg Steak with 
Reference to Sanitary Standards. American Journal of Pubhc Health, 
Vol. 4, pages 413-417 (1914)- 



CHAPTER VII 

POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 

Poultry, game, fish and shellfish belong in their essential 
characteristics with the meat foods discussed in the last chapter. 
They are treated separately here, not so much in deference to 
the traditional distinction between flesh, fish, and fowl as be- 
cause the products now to be considered are usually not classed 
as belonging to the slaughter house industry and do not come 
under the provisions of the meat inspection law. 

Poultry 

The value of poultry produced in the United States is esti- 
mated by the Census Bureau at somewhat over $200,000,000 
annually (for the year 1909, $202,506,272). We have already 
seen (Chapter V) that the poultry and egg industry is widely 
distributed in the United States. The total number of farms 
which reported fowls on hand April 15, 1910, was 5,585,032 and 
the number of fowls reported was 295,880,000. 

Much of the poultry now offered for sale is produced hundreds 
of miles from its market. The transportation of live poultry 
presents numerous problems most of which lie outside the scope 
of this book. The shipping and handling of poultry killed at 
a distance from market involves obvious possibilities of deteriora- 
tion. That such deterioration may be avoided, the methods of 
dressing poultry and of maintaining efficient refrigeration in 
transit and while awaiting sale have been studied in some detail 
by the United States Department of Agriculture and discussed 
in a series of bulletins and other articles the titles of which may 
be found at the end of this chapter. 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 221 

The practice recommended by Pennington is to bring the 
fowl into good condition by feeding clean grain mixed with 
buttermilk for from seven to fourteen days, then starve them 
for 24 hours in order that the intestinal tract may be as nearly 
empty as possible, and kill by cutting the jugular vein; then that 
part of the brain which controls the muscles holding the feathers 
in place is destroyed by a thrust of the knife, and the feathers 
are so loosened that they are easily pulled out. The cutting of 
the blood vessels in the proper way permits the blood to drain 
out of the carcass almost completely and the keeping quality 
is thus improved. After removal of feathers, and without 
removal of the entrails, the fowls should be hung by the feet 
on racks made entirely of metal and chilled by placing in rooms 
in which a temperature of about 32° F. is constantly maintained 
by means of mechanical refrigeration. Below 30° F. the flesh 
would become " frosted " ; above 35° F. deterioration proceeds 
too rapidly to permit of long hauls to distant markets and the 
subsequent delays involved in the usual routine of city market- 
ing. At 32° F. the time required for chilling is usually about 
24 hours. The carcasses are then graded and packed, pref- 
erably in boxes holding 12 fowls each. The boxes should be 
lined with parchment paper and sometimes each fowl is wrapped 
separately. Separate cartons are sometimes used for extra 
high grade poultry. The packed poultry is shipped in refrigera- 
tor cars, either chilled or hard frozen. A refrigerator car as 
ordinarily loaded in the West contains 20,000 pounds of poultry. 
Bunkers filled with ice and salt maintain the low temperature 
of the car and its contents during transit. 

Chemical analyses indicate that even when well handled and 
dry packed, the condition of dressed poultry after transportation 
varies appreciably with the differences in car temperatures 
ordinarily met. The best evidence of this is found in the de- 
velopment of ammonia as indicated in Fig. 17, which shows the 
percentages of ammoniacal nitrogen in the flesh of fowls other- 



222 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



wise comparable which had been transported at different tem- 
peratures. The difference thus shown at the end of the rail- 
road haul tends to continue and become greater throughout 




FR£S^ C/f/C/eSA/ 



Fig, 17. — Deterioration of poultry in transit at diflferent temperatures. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



the period that the fowls remain at the wholesale commission 
house or in the hands of the retailer, as is shown in Fig. 18, which, 
like Fig. 17, is taken from the bulletin by Pennington, Greenlee, 
et al. 

Preservation is of course much more perfect when the fowls 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 



223 



are kept hard frozen and delivered to the consumer without 
thawing. The common practice of thawing frozen poultry 
before exposing it for sale is objectionable in that it introduces 
an opportunity for deterioration which is quite unnecessary, 

0.0 /8a 



HBI H/GH TEMPeRATURE SH/PM£/\/TS. 



0.0/60 



0.0/S8 



0.0/'^/ 



0.0/^3 



0.0/20 



0.0/2^ 



0.0/'^4 

i 



SA/^PL£A/9/ 
£NO OF HAUL. 






(A. 



SA/^PLEA/92 SA/^PLE/V93 SAMPLE A/9 ^ 

AT WHOLESALER'S AT RETA/LER-'S AT RETA/LER'S 

AFTER '^ DAYS. /iFTER 7 OArS, 

Fig. 18. — Deterioration of poultry during marketing period as affected by 
temperature. U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

and would be avoided if consumers would learn to demand 
that the poultry be delivered to them in a solidly frozen 
condition. 

The general composition of poultry is shown in the following 
table based on the data compiled by Atwater and Bryant. 



224 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 22. Average Composition of Poultry 











Protein 




S 








h 










H 




ii 


Description 




1 


1 


X 


is 


£ 


6 


1 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cal. 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


Chicken, broilers : 




















Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


74.8 


21. 5 


21.6 


2.5 


— 


I.I 


492 


As purchased . . 




3 


41.6 


43-7 


12.8 


12.6 


1.4 


— 


.7 


289 


Fowls : 






















Edible portion . . 




26 


— 


63.7 


19.3 


ig.o 


16.3 


— 


I.O 


IO16 


As purchased . . 




26 


25-9 


47.1 


13-7 


14.0 


12.3 


— 


.7 


751 


Goose, young : 






















Edible portion . . 




I 


— 


46.7 


16.3 


16.3 


36.2 


— 


.8 


1774 


As purchased . . 




I 


17.6 


38.S 


134 


13-4 


29.8 


— 


.7 


1460 


Turkey : 






















Edible portion . . 




3 





55-5 


21. 1 


20.6 


22.9 


— 


1.0 


1318 


As purchased . . 




3 


22.7 


42.4 


16.I 


15-7 


18.4 


— 


.8 


1043 


Chicken gizzard, as pur- 




















chased 




— 


72. S 


24.7 


24.7 


1.4 


— 


1.4 


SOS 


Chicken heart, as purchased 




— 


72.0 


20.7 


21.1 


5-5 


— 


1.4 


600 


Chicken liver, as purchased 




— 


69-3 


22.4 


— 


4.2 


2.4 


1.7 


621 


Goose gizzard 







73.8 
62.6 


19.6 
16.6 


19.4 


5-8 
15-9 





1.0 


S93 
1018 


Goose liver, as purchased . 




— 


3.7 


1.2 



The nature of the. nutrients is, so far as known, not different 
in any important respect from that of other meats. The chemi- 
cal nature of the protein as shown by its products of hydrolysis 
has been studied in comparison with the flesh of widely dif- 
ferent species by Osborne, whose results are tabulated farther 
on in this chapter. (Table 26.) 

The light meat, such as breast, is composed of more tender 
fibers less firmly held together by connective tissue than is the 
dark meat, such as the leg muscle. Usually also the light meat 
contains less fat. For both these reasons it is apt to be somewhat 
more rapidly digested, at least in the stomach, and is therefore 
preferable for people having weak digestion. The impression 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 225 

that light meat furnishes less of the substances which give rise 
to uric acid in the body does not seem to have been confirmed. 
Neither have we any evidence that the ash constituents differ 
in any important degree either as between light and dark meat 
or as between chicken meat and that of other animals. 

Game 

Formerly game was exceedingly abundant in the United 
States and played a large part in the diet of the people 
generally. Now the amount of game is so diminished and its 
sale is so restricted that it has become a negligible factor in the 
food supply, and need not be considered here further than to 
point out that the flesh of game animals and game birds does 
not differ in nutritive value to any important degree from the 
meats and poultry already considered. 

Fish 

The fish products of the United States as they leave the hands 
of the fishermen are estimated by the Bureau of Fisheries to 
approximate 2,169,000,000 pounds in weight, and $58,000,000 
in value annually. The total sum paid by consumers is of 
course much larger than that received by the fishermen. 

Fish to be sold '' fresh " may be sent directly to market or may 
be kept in cold storage either chilled to ice temperature or hard 
frozen. Recent experiments begun by C. S. Smith and con- 
tinued by Perlzweig and Gies indicate that fresh fish may be 
preserved frozen, by the best cold storage processes, for at least 
two years without undergoing any important change. 

The American analyses of the commercially important kinds 
of fresh fish are shown in Table 23. 



226 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 23. Average Composition of Fish 









11 

II 


P4 


I 


Protein 


% 
fe 


u 

H 
t 

PQ 

6 


<: 


B 

H 


Description 


X 


Is 

pq 






Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Cal. 


FISH, FRESH 




















Alewife, whole : 




















Edible portion . 
As purchased 
Bass, black, whole : 






2 
2 


49-5 


74.4 
37.6 


19.4 
9.8 


19.2 
9-7 


4.9 
2.4 


— 


1.5 

.8 


552 
276 


Edible portion . 
As purchased 
Bass, red, whole : 






2 
2 


54-8 


76.7 
34-6 


20.6 
9-3 


20.4 
9-3 


1-7 
.8 


— 


1.2 
•5 


448 
201 


Edible portion . 
As purchased . 
Bass, sea, whole : 






I 
I 


63-5 


81.6 
29.8 


16.9 
6.2 


16.7 
6.1 


•5 
.2 


= 


1.2 

•4 


327 
121 


Edible portion . 
As purchased 
Bass, striped, whole, e 


;dit 


)le 


I 

I 


S6.1 


79-3 
34-8 


19.8 
8.7 


18.8 
8.3 


•5 
.2 


— 


1.4 
.6 


380 
166 


portion 

Bass, striped, entrails re- 


6 


— 


77-7 


18.6 


18.3 


2.8 


— 


1.2 


452 


moved, as purchased . 
Blackfish, whole : 


I 


51-2 


37-4 


8.8 


8.7 


2.2 


— 


•5 


249 


Edible portion .... 

As purchased .... 

Blackfish, entrails removed. 


4 
2 


60.2 


79.1 
31-4 


18.7 
7-4 


18.5 
7-3 


1-3 

•7 


= 


I.I 
•4 


393 
163 


as purchased .... 
Bluefish, entrails removed : 


2 


55-7 


35-0 


8.4 


8.3 


•5 


— 


•5 


173 


Edible portion .... 

As purchased .... 

Buffalo fish, entrails re- 


I 
I 


48.6 


78.5 
40.3 


19.4 

lO.O 


19.0 
9.8 


1.2 
.6 


= 


1-3 

•7 


401 
206 


moved : 




















Edible portion .... 
As purchased .... 
Butter-fish, whole : 


I 
I 


52. 5 


78.6 


18.0 
8.5 


17.9 
8.5 


2.3 
I.I 


= 


1.2 
.6 


430 
205 


Edible portion .... 
As purchased . . . . 
Catfish : 


I 
I 


42.8 


70.0 
40.1 


18.0 
10.3 


17.8 
10.2 


II.O 

6.3 


= 


1.2 
.6 


776 
444 


Edible portion .... 
As purchased .... 


I 
I 


19.4 


64.1 
51-7 


14.4 
11.6 


14.4 
11.6 


20.6 
16.6 




.9 

• 7 


1102 
888 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 



227 



Table 23. Average Composition of Fish — Continued 







W 


< 


Protein 


1 


< 

I 

Pi 

< 

u 


< 


Sq 


Descreption 


X 


as 








Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 








cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


Cat. 


FISH, FRESH 




















Cod, dressed, as purchased 


3 


29.9 


s^.s 


II, I 


10.6 


.2 


— 


.8 


210 


Cod, sections, edible portion 


3 


— 


82.5 


16.7 


16.3 


.3 


— 


•9 


315 


Cod, steaks : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


79-7 


18.7 


18.6 


•5 


— 


1.2 


370 


As purchased .... 


I 


9.2 


72.4 


17.0 


i6.g 


•5 


— 


I.O 


329 


Cusk, entrails removed : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


82.0 


17.0 


i6.g 


.2 


— 


•9 


317 


As purchased .... 


I 


40.3 


49.0 


lO.I 


10. 1 


.1 


— 


•5 


188 


Eels, salt water, head, skin. 




















and entrails removed : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


71.6 


18.6 


18.3 


9.1 


— 


1.0 


709 


As purchased .... 


2 


20.2 


57-2 


14.8 


14.6 


7.2 


— 


.8 


562 


Flounder, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


84.2 


14.2 


13-9 


.6 


— 


1-3 


282 


As purchased .... 


2 


61.5 


32.6 


5-4 


5-1 


•3 


— 


•5 


lie 


Flounder, entrails removed, 




















as purchased . . . 


I 


57-0 


35.8 


6.4 


6.3 


•3 


— 


.6 


128 


Haddock, entrails removed : 




















Edible portion .... 


4 


— 


81.7 


17.2 


16.8 


.3 


— 


1.2 


324 


As purchased .... 


4 


51.0 


40.0 


8.4 


8.2 


.2 


— 


.6 


160 


Hake, entrails removed : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


83.1 


iS-4 


15-2 


.7 


— 


1.0 


308 


As purchased .... 


I 


52. 5 


39-5 


1-3 


7.2 


•3 


— 


•S 


145 


Halibut, steaks or sections : 




















Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


75-4 


18.6 


18.4 


5-2 


— 


1.0 


5SO 


As purchased .... 


3 


17.7 


61.9 


15-3 


I5-I 


4.4 


— 


•9 


457 


Herring, whole : 














• 






Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


72.5 


19-5 


18.9 


7-1 


— 


i-S 


644 


As purchased .... 


2 


42.6 


41.7 


II. 2 


10.9 


3-9 


— 


•9 


362 


Mackerel, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 


6 


— 


73-4 


18.7 


18.3 


7-1 


— 


1.2 


629 


As purchased .... 


5 


44-7 


40.4 


10.2 


lO.O 


4.2 


— 


■7 


356 


Mackerel, entrails re.noved, 




















as purchased .... 


I 


40.7 


43-7 


11.6 


II.4 


3-S 


— 


•7 


353 



228 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 23. Average Composition of Fish — Continued 





f^ „ 


1 


Protein 1 




s 




po 




og 


H 


d 








^ 




§§ 


Description 




I 
W 




X 


pq 


% 

u^ 




1 


H 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cal 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


K^aif 


FISH, FRESH 




















Mullet, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


74-9 


19-5 


19-3 


4.6 


— 


1.2 


542 


As purchased .... 


I 


57-9 


3I-S 


8.2 


8.1 


2.0 


— 


•5 


230 


Muskellunge, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


76.3 


20.2 


IQ.6 


2.5 


— 


1.6 


469 


As purchased .... 


I 


49.2 


38.7 


10.2 


lO.O 


1-3 


— 


.8 


238 


Perch, white, whole, edible 




















portion 


2 


— 


75-7 


19-3 


I9.I 


4.0 


— 


1.2 


514 


Perch, yellow, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


79-3 


18.7 


18.7 


.8 


— 


1.2 


372 


As purchased .... 


I 


62.7 


30.0 


6.6 


6.7 


.2 


— , 


•4 


127 


Perch, yellow, dressed, as 




















purchased 


J 


35-1 


50.7 


12.8 


12.6 


.7 





•9 


261 


Pickerel, pike, whole : 












Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


79.8 


18.7 


18.6 


•5 


— 


I.I 


360 


As purchased .... 


2 


47.1 


42.2 


9.9 


9.9 


.2 


— 


.6 


188 


Pickerel, pike, entrails re- 




















moved, as purchased . 


I 


42.7 


45-7 


10.7 


10.7 


.3 


— 


.6 


206 


Pollock, dressed : 




















Edible portion .... 


I 


— 


76.0 


21.6 


21.7 


.8 


— 


1-5 


42s 


As purchased 




I 


28.5 


54-3 


IS4 


15-5 


.6 


— 


I.I 


304 


Porgy, whole : 






















Edible portion 


. . . 


3 


— 


75-0 


18.6 


18.5 


5-1 


— 


1.4 


546 


As purchased 




3 


60.0 


29.9 


7-4 


7-4 


2.1 


— 


.6 


220 


Salmon, whole : 






















Edible portion 


. 


6 


— 


64.6 


22.0 


21.2 


12.8 


— 


1.4 


922 


As purchased 




4 


34-9 


40.9 


iS-3 


14.4 


8.9 


— 


•9 


642 


Salmon, entrails removed, as 




















purchased : 




29-5 


48.1 


13.8 


13-5 


8.1 


— 


.8 


582 


Shad, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 


7 


— 


70.6 


18.8 


18.6 


9-5 


— 


1-3 


727 


As purchased .... 


7 


So.i 


35.2 


9.4 


9.2 


4.8 


— 


• 7 


367 


Shad roe, as purchased . . 


I 


— 


71.2 


20.9 


— 


3.8 


2.6 


1.5 


582 


Sheepshead, edible portion 


2 


— 


75.6 


20.1 


I9'5 


3-7 


— 


,1.2 


516 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 



229 



Table 23. Average Composition 


OF Fish — 


- Continued 












Protein 




S 








°^ 


M 


oi 






t 




§g 








Description- 


II 




H 

< 


IT) 
X 


Is 




i 


1 








Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Col. 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


fish, FRESH 




















Sheepshead, entrails re- 




















moved, as purchased . 


I 


56.6 


31.2 


9.0 


8.8 


2.9 


— 


•5 


282 


Smelt, whole : 




















Edible portion , • . . . 


2 


— 


79.2 


17.6 


17-3 


1.8 


— 


1-7 


393 


As purchased .... 


2 


41.9 


46.1 


lO.I 


lO.O 


I.O 


— 


1.0 


224 


Spanish mackerel, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 




— 


68.1 


21.5 


21.0 


9.4 


— 


1-5 


774 


As purchased .... 




34.6 


44-5 


I4.I 


13-7 


6.2 


— 


1.0 


509 


Sturgeon, anterior sections : 




















Edible portion .... 




— 


78.7 


I8.I 


18.0 


1.9 


— 


1.4 


406 


As purchased .... 




14.4 


67.4 


I5-I 


15-4 


1.6 


— 


1.2 


339 


Tomcod, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 




— 


81.5 


17.2 


17.1 


•4 


— 


1.0 


328 


As purchased .... 




59-9 


32.7 


6.9 


6.8 


.2 


— 


•4 


133 


Trout, brook, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 


3 


— 


77.8 


19.2 


18.9 


2.1 


— 


1.2 


434 


As purchased .... 


3 


48.1 


40.4 


9.9 


9.8 


I.I 


— 


.6 


225 


Trout, salmon or lake : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


70.8 


17.8 


17.7 


10.3 


— 


1.2 


743 


As purchased .... 


2 


48.5 


36.6 


9.1 


9.2 


5-1 


— 


6 


373 


Turbot : 




















Edible portion .... 




— 


71.4 


14.8 


12.9 


14.4 


— 


1.3 


8S7 


As purchased .... 




47.7 


37-3 


7-7 


6.8 


7-5 


— 


•7 


446 


Weakfish, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 




— 


79.0 


17.8 


17.4 


2.4 


— 


1.2 


421 


As purchased .... 




51-9 


38.0 


8.6 


8.4 


I.I 


— 


.6 


201 


Whitefish, whole : 




















Edible portion .... 




— 


69.8 


22.9 


22.1 


6.5 


— 


1.6 


680 


As purchased .... 




53-5 


32.5 


10.6 


10.3 


3-0 


— 


.7 


315 


amphibia 




















Frogs' legs : 




















Edible portion .... 


2 


— 


83-7 


15-5 


I5-I 


.2 


— 


I.'O 


289 


As purchased .... 


2 


32.0 


56.9 


IO-5 


10.3 


.1 




•7 


194 



230 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Preserved Fish 

Many kinds of fish are preserved in large quantities by drying, 
salting, smoking, canning, or by combinations of these processes. 
As illustrative of these industries the preparation of salt codfish, 
canned salmon, and sardines in oil will be outlined. 

Preparation of salt cod. This is a New England industry 
centering at Gloucester, Mass. The annual product (including 
cusk, haddock, hake, and pollock which are caught and handled 
with the cod) is estimated to represent a catch of about 
225,000,000 pounds. In a recent bulletin of the Bureau of 
Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture, Bitting 
describes the process as follows : 

The cod are separated into three classes, snappers, medium, and large, 
according to their size. All codfish less than 16 inches from the curve of the 
nape to the hollow of the tail are designated as snappers ; those more than 16 
but under 22 inches are called medium, and those above 22 inches are rated 
as large. The codfish generally run — snappers 4 per cent, medium 41 per 
cent, and large 55 per cent. The cusk and hake are generally divided into 
two sizes, the snappers under 19 inches and the large above that. Each 
class is weighed and kept separate, being examined for any evidence of spoil- 
age as they are pitched out. . . . 

The curing of salt fish depends upon drying, and this is accomplished in 
three ways — by the use of salt, by pressure, and by exposure to the air, 
either in the open air or in a drier. In this country all three agents are 
employed, as it is not possible to dry the fish in the air alone, as is done in 
certain parts of Norway. 

Salt acts as a drier as well as a preservative, as it abstracts moisture wher- 
ever it comes in contact with the tissue, whether this be in the kench in the 
boat or in the butt at the factory. In the strictly full-pickle fish (that is, 
fresh fish placed in the butt) the maximum effect of drying by means of salt 
is accomplished. All the water abstracted in making pickle is so much dry- 
ing. Kenching and air drying are necessary to complete the operation, 
though the amount of water abstracted by the latter operations is not so 
great as is generally supposed. In the '* kench cure " there is a combination 
of salting and pressure. . . . 

A very large proportion of the fish is cured by a combination of these two 
processes, being salted and kenched on board the boat and the work com- 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 231 

pleted in pickle at the factory. One of the advantages of the pickle cure is 
that the fish can be handled at all seasons and at such a rate as the trade may 
demand. For the slack-salted fish the salt is used as a preservative and the 
drying is accomplished by pressure and in the air. This can be done only 
when the weather is favorable. 

The more fully the drying is done by salt or by pressure, the less time is 
required on the flakes. Those dried for domestic consumption are not nearly 
so dry as those packed for export trade. In the former class the moisture 
content is usually between 43 and 5 1 per cent, while in the latter it is between 
28 and 35 per cent. . . . 

The fish are dried on flakes and the drying yard is known as the flake yard. 
The flake consists of a lattice bed about 8 feet wide, 30 inches high, and as 
long as the requirements may demand. The lattice used on this bed is made 
of triangular strips i inch on the base, and these are placed about 3 inches 
apart. The fish therefore rest upon a sharp edge about every 4 inches. This 
is for the purpose of giving the maximum circulation of air about the fish. 
One double-deck flake yard was seen, the space between decks being 18 
inches. 

At regular intervals along the flakes, crosspieces are provided over which 
to stretch a canvas to protect the fish from sunburn during hot weather. 
Boxes or coops are also provided to cover the fish during rains and at 
night. . . . 

The fish are spread out carefully on the flakes with the face side up, and the 
drying is continued as long as may be necessary for the particular grade of 
fish. The full-pickle fish are dried for the shortest period, as they cannot be 
skinned readily if too dry, and, furthermore, the trade seems to desire fish 
which are moist and not too hard, and these retain practically 50 per cent of 
their water. If the sun is fairly warm and there is a good breeze, the drying 
can be accomplished in about ten hours as the minimum time, but this may 
be greatly increased with unfavorable weather conditions. Only one drying 
is usual for the full-cured fish. 

The slack-salted fish are generally dried for two days, kenched for two or 
three days to " sweat " them, then placed on the flakes again for one day. 
Porto Rican or hard-dried fish are dried for three days," sweated " for two 
days, and then again dried for two days. The object of the " sweating " 
is to bring the moisture out of the interior of the fish. The drying on the 
flakes removes the moisture from the surface and crystallizes the salt, but 
to get the moisture out of the center of the meat the fish must be piled in 
the kench, where the dry salt takes up some of the remaining moisture, so 
that the second drying on the flakes has a greater effect. The full-pickle 
fish lose about 9 per cent of their weight in drying on the flakes. When 



232 FOOD PRODUCTS 

cured, they retain about 50 per cent of their moisture, the slack-salted retain 
35 to 40 per cent, and the hard-dried from 25 to 30 per cent. 

The fish are taken to the skinning department according to the orders to 
be filled. If the fish are to be put up as " absolutely boneless," then the 
fins are pulled out and the skin pulled off. The skin is started at the napes 
and pulled in toward the middle of the back and then pulled toward the 
tail. If the fish has been properly cured, the skin can be stripped off clean 
without tearing the flesh. If it has been sunburned, the skin will not hang 
together well. After the back has been skinned the fish is turned over and 
the dark lining membrane of the napes is stripped forward so that the whole 
fish is clean. The remaining portion of the backbone is cut out and the fish 
is passed to the bone pickers, who remove with forceps the ribs and any 
pieces of bone left in the body. If the fish are to be packed as so-called 
" boneless," then the fins are only cut off and the thick part of the backbone 
cut out closely, the small pieces of the fins, ribs, and backbone being allowed 
to remain. The term " boneless " as used in the trade is hardly appropriate 
and should be changed for one more nearly descriptive of the real conditions. 

From bone picking to cutting is a short step. The table at which this is 
done is made of boards with openings between them at regular intervals. 
The fish are laid on the cutting table so that the best parts come between 
the openings. A half dozen pieces or more may be stretched out at a time 
across these openings, then a long-bladed knife is swept through them and 
they are ready to be packed into fish cakes, etc. A trough or miter box is 
also used for securing the same result.. 

The pieces of fish are passed to girls, who sort them and weigh out exactly 
a pound or two pounds, whatever the cake or package is to be. Two good 
slices are selected to make the outside of the packages, and short or narrow 
strips to make up the middle part. . . . The mold is pressed tightly by 
foot power, held for a few seconds, and a twine string tied securely around 
near each end. . . . The package is completed by wrapping first in paraf- 
fined paper and then in the labeled wrapper. 

Preparation of canned salmon. The salmon of the North 
Pacific coast has now become one of the most important fishery 
products. It is said that in the Northwest the catching and 
packing of salmon is an enterprise second only to the lumber 
industry in size. The output in 191 1 amounted to 290,000,000 
cans. The canned salmon put up in this region is used through- 
out America and also to a considerable extent abroad. The 
outline of the industry which follows is based upon a paper by 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 233 

Loomis of the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department 
of Agriculture, presented at the Eighth International Congress 
of Applied Chemistry. 

There are five principal varieties of salmon packed along the 
Pacific coast, each of which is known by several names, depend- 
ing upon the locality in which it is caught. The fish with reddest 
flesh and most oil are usually preferred by consumers, the follow- 
ing being the commonly accepted order of preference : (i) Red 
salmon, sockeye, or blueback; (2) chinook, king, or spring 
salmon ; (3) medium red salmon, cohoe, or silverside ; (4) hump- 
back or pink salmon ; (5) chum or dog salmon. 

The salmon spend most of their lives in the sea but spawn in 
the fresh water of the rivers. They are caught in seines and 
traps of various forms, placed along the shores of the mainland 
or islands at points which the large schools of fish pass on their 
way from the ocean to the rivers. As many as 50,000 salmon 
are sometimes taken in a trap at once. The sockeye salmon 
weighs usually from 5 to 10 pounds, while the other varieties are 
larger, the chinook being largest and averaging about 30 pounds. 

At the cannery the fish are unloaded and carried by conveyor 
to a machine which removes the heads, tails, fins, and entrails. 
The fish are then cleaned, washed, and sliced transversely into 
pieces of the right size to fit the cans. Salt is first placed in the 
cans, then the sections of salmon are packed in, the can covers 
put on, and the whole heated in a steam retort for one half hour, 
sealed while hot, tested for leaks, heated again at 240° F. to 
sterilize the contents, and the cans finally retested, cleaned, 
lacquered, and labeled. The details vary somewhat, depending 
upon whether a soldered can or a so-called sanitary can is used. 

The salmon canning industry is regulated by the Bureau of 
Chemistry under the Food and Drugs Act and by the Bureau 
of Fisheries under the provisions of the Alaska Fisheries Law. 
Loomis finds that the methods in use are generally adapted to 
the production of a fresh, clean, and high-grade product and 



234 FOOD PRODUCTS 

that there is little if any attempt at misbranding, the cans being 
generally labeled to show the variety of salmon contained in them. 
The sardine industry. The fish packed in France under the 
name sardine is the Clupea pilchardus; while the Maine sardine 
is the Clupea harengus. In the opinion of the Bureau of Fisheries 
and of the United States Department of Agriculture the name 
sardine is equally applicable to either species. Sardines need 
not therefore be labeled to show their origin, but of course must 
not " purport to be a foreign product when not so." Also if 
packed in any other than olive oil, the fact must be stated. 
French sardines are usually packed with much care in olive oil 
and sold at a high price. Maine sardines are usually handled 
rapidly in large quantities, packed in cottonseed oil and sold 
at such low prices as to make them an economical food. The 
following outline of the industry as carried on in Maine is taken 
from reports made by Buswell to the Maine Experiment Station 
in 191 1, and by Hanson to the Eighth International Congress 
of Applied Chemistry in 191 2. 

Sardines are canned in about fifty-five factories along the Maine coast, the 
total annual output being between 125,000,000 and 200,000,000 clns valued 
at from $5,000,000 to $7,000,000 according to the season. 

The fish are trapped in weirs and are taken by seining the weir shortly 
before low tide. As many as three hundred hogsheads of herring have been 
caught in a single weir at one time. 

At the factory they are scooped into tubs with scoop nets or shovels, and 
hoisted to the sluicing troughs, which run on an incline either through a 
separator to the pickle tanks or directly to the tanks without separating. 
The separator is a simple device for separating those to be packed in oil — ■ 
3 to 7 inches in length — from the larger ones which are to be packed in 
mustard sauce. It consists of an inclined revolving drum made up of hoops 
of steel pipe placed closer together at the upper than at the lower end. As 
the fish are sluiced through the separator the smaller ones drop through the 
openings at the upper end while those larger pass on to the lower end. From 
the separator the fish fall into sluices which convey them to the pickle tanks. 
The lower end of these sluices is made of coarse wire netting which allows the 
water to drain oil and prevents the dilution of the pickle. 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 235 

The pickle tanks are of wood and hold about three hogsheads. They are 
filled about one third full with a 90 to 95 per cent saturated salt solution. 
This solution is strong enough to float the fish. If it becomes so weak — due 
to the loss of the salt taken up by the fish — that the fish sink, it is consid- 
ered a sign that they are beginning to take up water, which is most undesir- 
able. The length of time the fish are left in the pickle is variable, but the 
most common practice is to leave the fish in the pickle from one and one half 
to three hours. The object of the pickling is to toughen the fish and give 
flavor. Fat fish take the salt much less readily than do lean fish, hence re- 
quire a longer time in the pickle. 

From the pickle room the fish are sluiced or carried in baskets to the flaking 
room where they are laid in rows on wire trays or flakes. This is usually 
done by machine, but sometimes by hand. The flaking machine when 
properly operated does the work much faster than it can be done by hand. 

The flakes of fish are next placed in racks running on rollers and these are 
pushed into the steam boxes where they are cooked with live steam for from 
8 to 15 minutes. The object of steaming is to cook the fish. A well- cooked 
fish should not show blood along the backbone. 

After steaming the fish are dried, either in air driers or in ovens. The air 
driers are in general of two types : First, a long low-cefling room with a large 
fan at one end which blows heated air over the racks of fish ; second, a cir- 
cular chamber with a fan in the center. From the first type the dried fish 
are taken out by a door at the fan end of the drier while at the same time 
wet fish are being put in at the opposite end. Two or three hours are re- 
quired for drying. In the second type the floor of the chamber revolves 
slowly so that as they pass a certain point the racks of dry fish are taken off 
and wet fish put on. 

There are two types of ovens, the older or reel oven and the track oven. 
The reel oven is of brick having a large reel revolving over a hard coal fire. 
As the pans which hang from the arms of the reel come to the front of the 
oven the flakes of dried fish are taken off and wet fish put on. The time of 
one revolution varies with the heat of the fire and the size of the fish, but as a 
rule about 20 minutes are required to dry the fish thoroughly. The other 
type of oven has steel tracks arranged so that the racks of flakes can be 
pushed in over the fire ; 15 to 30 minutes are required to dry the fish in this 
kind of an oven. 

The dried fish are next distributed to the packing tables, where they are 
beheaded with shears and packed in tin boxes, holding 4 or 11 ounces of fish. 
In general the small fish are packed in oil in the 4-ounce boxes, the larger fish 
in mustard sauce in i i-ounce boxes. Fish of intermediate size are brought to 
the proper length for the smaller boxes by cutting off the anterior portions. 



236 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



(These anterior sections, which of course are just as good as the part used for 
canning, furnish the material for the manufacture of " deviled sardine.") 

The cans then go to the sealing machine, where the covers are sealed on, 
after which they are " bathed." The bath is a rectangular steel tank about 
three and one half feet deep, filled with water and heated by a perforated 
steam coil in the bottom. The object of " bathing " is to sterilize the con- 
tents of the can and to soften the bones. To accomplish this the four ounce 
cans are bathed from one and one quarter to two hours, and the eleven ounce 
cans from one and one half to three hours. Long bathing tends to 
" chowder " the fish. 

The sardines packed in oil in the four ounce cans are called by the trade 
" quarter oils." A few are packed in mustard sauce in the same size cans 
and these are called " quarter mustards." Most of the fish packed in mus- 
tard sauce, however, are packed in the 11 ounce size and these are called 
" three-quarter mustards." 

Composition of preserved fish. The results of American 
analyses of canned, dried, salted, and smoked fish as compiled 
by Atwater and Bryant are as follows : 



Table 24. Composition of Preserved Fish 





s < 






Protein 


1 


6 


1 




Description 


X 


Is 


" 




Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cats. 


FISH, PRESERVED AND 




cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


CANNED 




















Cod, salt, "boneless," as 




















purchased . . . 


I 


1.6 


54-8 


27.7 


28.6 


•3 


— 


14.7 


51S 


Haddock, smoked : 




















Edible portion . . . 


I 


— 


72.S 


3-3 


23-7 


.2 


— 


3-6 


431 


As purchased . . . 


I 


32.2 


49.2 


15-8 


16.1 


.1 


— 


2.4 


291 


Hahbut, smoked : 




















Edible portion . . . 


2 


— 


49.4 


20.7 


20.6 


15.0 


— 


^15.0 


988 


As purchased . . . 


2 


27.0 


46.0 


19-3 


19.1 


14.0 


— 


13.9 


922 


Herring, smoked : 




















Edible portion . . . 


I 


— 


34-6 


36.9 


36.4 


15-8 


— 


^13-2 


1315 


As purchased . . . 


I 


44.4 


19.2 


20.5 


20.2 


8.8 


— 


7-4 


731 



^One sample contained 12. i per cent common salt. 
2 Contained 11. 7 per cent common salt. 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 

Table 24. Composition of Preserved Fish — Continued 



237 





S « 






Protein 




H 




^Q 




°» 


w 


ti 








■J 




3§ 


Description 


n. 


t/3 




X 

12: 


I' 

PQ 


a 


m 
§ 
< 


< 








Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cal. 


FISH, PRESERVED AND 




cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


CANNED 




















Mackerel, salt, entrails 




















removed : 




















Edible portion . . . 


I 


— 


42.2 


21. 1 


22.0 


22.6 


— 


^13.2 


130S 


As purchased . . . 


I 


22.9 


32.5 


16.3 


17.0 


17.4 


— 


10.2 


1005 


Mackerel, salt, canned, 




















as purchased . . . 


I 


— 


68.2 


19.6 


19.9 


8.7 


— 


3.2 


711 


Mackerel, salt, canned in 




















oil: 




















Edible portion . . . 


I 


— 


58.3 


25-4 


23-5 


14.1 


— 


4.1 


1037 


As purchased . . . 


I 


^31.5 


39-9 


17.4 


16.I 


9-7 


— 


2.8 


722 


Mackerel, salt, dressed : 




















Edible portion . . . 


2 


— 


43-4 


17.3 


17-3 


26.4 


— 


^ 12.9 


1392 


As purchased . . . 


2 


19.7 


34.8 


13-9 


13-9 


21.2 


— 


10.4 


II18 


Pilchard in tomatoes, 




















canned, Russia, as 




















purchased .... 


I 


— 


52.7 


27.9 


27-5 


15-8 


— 


4.0 


1152 


Salmon, canned : 




















Edible portion . . . 


7 


— 


63.5 


21.8 


21.8 


12. 1 


— 


2.6 


889 


As purchased . . . 


3 


14.2 


56.8 


I9-5. 


19-5 


7-5 


— 


2.0 


660 


Sardines, canned : 




















Edible portion . . . 


2 


— 


52.3 


23.0 


22.4 


19.7 


— 


5.6 


I22I 


As purchased . . . 


I 


'S.o 


53.6 


23-7 


24.0 


12. 1 


— 


5-3 


924 


Sturgeon, dried, Russia : 




















Edible portion . . . 




— 


50.6 


31.8 


32.2 


9.6 


— 


7.6 


969 


As purchased . . . 




12.7 


44.1 


27.8 


28.1 


8.4 


— 


6.7 


848 


Sturgeon, caviare, pressed. 




















Russian, as purchased 




— 


38.1 


30.0 


— 


19.7 


7.6 


4.6 


1487 


Tunney, as purchased 




— 


72.7 


21.7 


21.5 


4.1 


— 


1-7 


560 


Tunney, canned in oil. 




















Russia : 




















Edible portion . . . 




— 


51-3 


238 


— 


20.0 


0.6 


4.3 


1260 


As purchased . . . 




16.7 


42.7 


20.3 


— 


16.7 


— 


3.6 


1400 



1 Contained g.2 per cent common salt. ^ Refuse, oil. 

3 Contained 10.4 per cent common salt. 



238 FOOD PRODUCTS 

SheUfish 

The principal shellfish used for food are divisible into two 
classes: (i) mollusks, including oysters, clams, mussels, and 
scallops; (2) crustaceans, including lobsters, crabs, shrimps, 
and crawfish. 

Of all of these the oyster is by far the most important as a 
factor in the general food supply. 

It is estimated that the oyster crop of the United States 
(representing about two thirds of the world's supply) approx- 
imates 25,000,000 bushels annually, valued at about $20,000,000. 
The total amount paid at retail would of course be much larger. 
The shores of Long Island and of Chesapeake Bay produce 
oysters abundantly. According to statistics collected by Stiles, 
the chief oyster-producing states are, in order of rank: New 
York, Virginia, Connecticut, Maryland, New Jersey, Rhode 
Island, Louisiana, Mississippi. A considerable proportion of 
the oyster crop, perhaps one fifth, is preserved by canning. The 
oyster-Canning industry grew up around Baltimore, but is now 
carried on to an even larger extent in some of the more Southern 
states, where there are areas well suited to oyster culture but 
not readily accessible to the large markets. 

Although still classified with the fisheries, the oyster industry 
is rapidly becoming a kind of farming. Submerged lands suit- 
able for oyster culture are either owned or rented from the state, 
and many people devote themselves exclusively to the care of 
these oyster farms, which in some cases are natural oyster beds 
which have been conserved and in other cases are the result of 
artificial planting. The oyster reproduces by eggs which on 
hatching yield free-swimming larvae, but when about two weeks 
old the young oysters have secreted shells of sufficient weight 
to cause them to sink and they then '' set " on any object with 
which they come in contact, and thereafter are stationary. 
By the end of the first season the young oyster is from one to 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 239 




Fig. 19. — Seed oysters. 



240 FOOD PRODUCTS 

two centimeters, or about one half to three fourths of an inch 
in diameter and at this stage in their development are often sold 
as " seed oysters " (Fig. 19) to be replanted in other beds. This 
transplanting of oysters is a matter of growing importance and 
appears to make possible a great development of the industry, 
since there are large areas on both the Atlantic and Pacific 
coasts, as well as in other countries, where the conditions are 
unfavorable for spawning but entirely suitable for the raising 
of transplanted oysters. The rate of growth of the oyster is 
dependent upon its environment, but in general it is expected 
that the oysters will be marketed when from three to five years 
old. 

It is partly for the sanitary protection of the shellfish grounds 
of the estuaries and inland waters that the state and federal 
governments are now taking steps to prevent or regulate the 
discharge of raw sewage into rivers and harbors. 

The feeding habits of, oysters, clams, and mussels make it 
probable that they will contain considerable numbers of bacteria 
of the types characteristic of the waters in which they live. 
Hence when these shellfish are taken from (or have been kept 
in) sewage-polluted waters, they may easily contain bacteria 
of the intestinal types and thus may become carriers of typhoid 
fever as well as less serious intestinal disorders. This was first 
clearly demonstrated by Conn, in the investigation of an epi- 
demic of typhoid among the students of Wesleyan University in 
1894. The epidemic was confined to members of the various 
college fraternities which had held banquets in their several 
houses, but all on the same evening. Each of these banquets 
had included raw oysters and all the oysters came from one 
dealer and had been " floated " or " fattened " at the mouth 
of a stream. This stream was found to be highly polluted, and 
further investigation showed that in one house near by there 
were two cases of typhoid the discharges of which passed through 
the house drain into the stream without disinfection. There 



i 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 241 

was left no room for doubt that the typhoid bacteria passed 
from the patients in the house near the stream to the oysters 
and so to the students at the banquet. In 1902 there occurred 
simultaneous outbreaks of typhoid fever at Winchester and at 
Southampton, England, which were traced to contaminated 
oysters from a common source. In 191 2 two epidemics of 
typhoid and other intestinal disorders were clearly traced by 
Stiles ^ to oysters obtained from a dealer who was accustomed to 
store his shellfish in water which on investigation was found to 
be contaminated. As Prescott and Winslow point out:^ 
" It should be noted that it is unfortunately not only raw shell- 
fish which are responsible for the spread of disease. Most of 
the processes of cooking to which these foods are subjected are 
insufficient to destroy pathogenic germs." These authors quote 
results showing that, with steamed clams, the bacteria present 
could not be destroyed except by a temperature high enough and 
prolonged enough to ruin the clams for eating and that oyster 
stew, fried oysters, and fancy roast oysters may still contain 
active bacteria of the types indicative of sewage pollution. 
Clams in chowder, on the other hand, were found to be 
practically sterilized. 

When shellfish are carelessly opened and handled, they may 
receive additional contamination in the process. Stiles, in 
191 1, found enormously greater numbers of bacteria in the 
" shucked " than in the corresponding " shell " oysters. 

Gorham ^ has found that oysters taken from the same beds 
show much less contamination in winter than in summer. 
He believes that during the cold weather the oysters assume a 
condition of rest or hibernation, during which the process of 
feeding is suspended. In such a condition no organisms would 
be taken in from the outside water and those within the oyster 

* See references at the end of the chapter. 

2 Elements of Water Bacteriology (3d ed.), page 248. 

3 See references at the end of the chapter. 



242 FOOD PRODUCTS 

are gradually destroyed. These observations upon seasonal 
variations were made with oysters taken from Narragansett 
Bay ; whether the same holds true in the warmer waters farther 
south does not appear to have been determined. It would seem 
only a reasonable precaution not to eat shellfish taken from 
contaminated waters at any season of the year; at least not 
until after such thorough cooking as to insure the death of any 
bacteria present. 

Oysters are often kept for a time after gathering, on rafts 
constructed with false bottoms where they remain immersed 
in the water. This is called " floating." Except where the 
practice is forbidden by law, it is common for the dealers to 
" float " oysters in waters of a less salt content than that in 
which they were grown, with the result that the fresher water 
enters the oyster, increasing its plumpness and weight and giving 
it a whiter appearance. If the water in which the oysters are 
floated is less pure than that in which they were grown, the dan- 
ger of disease bacteria in the oyster is of course increased, and 
vice versa. How long it would be necessary to float polluted 
oysters in pure water in order to make them safe cannot be stated 
with any degree of certainty at the present time. 

The composition of the principal shellfish used for food is 
shown in Table 25, in which the percentages of nutrients are 
those given by At water and Bryant and the fuel values are re- 
calculated as explained in earlier chapters. 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 



243 



Table 25. Average Composition of Shellfish 



Description 



f 



SHELLFISH, ETC., FRESH 

Clams, long, in shell : 
Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Clams, round, in shell : 

Edible portion 

As purchased .... 
Clams, round, removed from 

shell, as purchased 
Crabs, hardshell, whole 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . . 
Crayfish, abdomen, whole 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Lobster, whole : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Mussels, in shell : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Oysters, in shell : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Oysters, solids, as pur- 
chased . . . 
Scallops, as purchased 
Terrapin : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Turtle, green, whole : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 



Per 

cent 



41.9 

67-5 

52.4 
86,6 
61.7 
46.7 
81.4 

75-4 
76.0 



Per 

cent 



85.8 
49.9 

86.2 
28.0 

80.8 

77.1 
36.7 

81.2 
10.9 

79.2 
30.7 

84.2 
44.9 

86.9 
16.1 

88.3 
80.3 

74-5 
18.3 

79.8 
19.2 



Protein 



Per 

cent 



8.6 
5-0 

6.5 
2.1 

10.6 

16.6 
7-9 

16.0 
2.1 

16.4 
5-9 

8.7 
4.6 

6.2 
1.2 

6.0 
14.8 

21.2 
5-2 

19.8 
4-7 



S 8 

73 (3 



Per 

cent 



21.0 
5-2 

18.5 
4.4 



Per 

cent 



I.O 

.6 



2.0 
•9 



.7 

I.I 

.6 

1.2 

•2 

1.3 
.1 

3-5 
•9 

•5 
.1 



Per 

cent 



2.0 
I.I 

4.2 
1.4 

5-2 
1.2 

.6 

1.0 
.1 

.4 
,2 

4.1 
2.2 

.7 
3-4 



Per 

cent 



2.6 

1-5 

2.7 
•9 

2.3 

3- 
i-S 

1-3 



2.2 
.8 



1.9 
1.0 



2.0 
•4 



I.I 
1.4 



1.0 
.2 



244 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 25. Average Composition or Shellfish — Continued 






,^ .. 






Protein 




i 




w 




^ w 


M 
















Description 


Jl 


(4 


§ 
^ 


10 

•■6 
X 


Is 


< 


< 


1 








Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cat 


SHELLFISH, ETC., CANNED 




cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent- 


cent 


cent 




Clams, long, as purchased 


I 


— 


84.5 


q.O 


— 


1-3 


2.Q 


2.3 


269 


Clams, round, as purchased 


I 


— 


82.Q 


10.5 


— 


.8 


3-0 


2.8 


277 


Crabs, as purchased . . 


2 


— 


80.0 


15.8 


— 


1-5 


.7 


2.0 


360 


Lobster, as purchased . . 


2 


— 


77.8 


18.1 


— 


I.I 


•5 


2.5 


382 


Oysters, as purchased . . 


4 


— 


834 


8.8 


— 


2.4 


3-9 


1.5 


328 


Shrimp, as purchased . . 


I 


— 


70.8 


25-4 


— 


I.O 


.2 


2.6 


505 



Ash constituents of oysters. The fact that the oyster secretes 
such a large amount of calcium in its shell suggests that the 
edible portion may be relatively rich in calcium as compared 
with other flesh foods, which, as we have seen, are strikingly poor 
in this element. 

According to Albu and Neuberg the edible portion of the 
oyster is strikingly rich in calcium, but an investigation now in 
progress shows the following preliminary results : 

Per Cent 

Calcium oxide 0.06 

Magnesium oxide 0.06 

Potassium oxide 0.06 

Sodium oxide 0.59 

Phosphorous pentoxide 0.37 

Chlorine 0.67 

Sulphur 0.18 

This analysis shows a calcium content somewhat above 
that of meat but much below that of milk, and a preponder- 
ance of acid-forming elements as great as that found in lean 
meats. 



I 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 



245 



Comparison of Poultry, Fish, and Shellfish with Other Flesh 

Foods 

Attention has been called to the similarity of all these flesh 
foods and to the fact that the differences in general composition 
are chiefly attributable to varying fat content. 

That there is also a general similarity in the structure of the 
proteins of shellfish, fish, and fowl and of ordinary meat protein 
such as beef is shown by the following table based on the work 
of Osborne : 

Table 26. Percentages of Amino Acids from the Flesh of widely 
Different Species 



Glycin . . 
Alanin . . 
Valin . . . 
Leucin 
Prolin 

Phenylalanin 
Aspartic acid 
Glutamic acid 
Tyrosin . . 
Arginin . 
Histidin . 
Lysin . . 
Ammonia . 
Tryptophan 

Summation 



Scallops 



8.78 
2.28 
4.90 

347 
14.88 

1-95 
7.38 
2.02 

5-77 

1.08 

present 



52.51 



Halibut 



0.00 

0.79 
IO-33 
3-17 
3-04 
2-73 
10.13 

2-39 
6.34 
2.55 
7-45 
1-33 
present 



50.25 



Chicken 



0.68 
2.28 

II. 19 
4.74 
3-53 
3.21 

16.48 
2.16 
6.50 
2.47 
7.24 
1.67 
present 



62.15 



Beef 



2.06 
3.72 
0.81 

11.65 
5.82 
3.15 
4.51 

1549 
2.20 

7.47 
1.76 

7.59 

1.07 

present 



67.30 



The digestibility of fish and poultry was studied quantitatively 
by Milner in a series of experiments in which the coeflScient of 
digestibility was determined with four different men for each 
of the four foods, canned salmon, fresh cod, canned chicken, and 
roast duck. The average coefficients of digestibility found were 
as follows : 



246 



FOOD PRODUCTS 





Protein 


Fat 


Salmon 

Cod 

Chicken 


96.23 
95-93 
96.74^ 
94.66 


97.01 
97.40 
97-13 
97-32 


Duck . 





The digestibility as thus determined is seen to be approxi- 
mately equal to that of meats and appreciably higher than that 
of average mixed diet. 

While these coefficients represent digestibility in the only 
sense in which it can be measured quantitatively, it is well known 
that the term digestibility is also used to indicate the relative 
ease and comfort with which foods are digested and the readiness 
with which gastric digestion is completed as evidenced by the 
time elapsing between the eating of the food and its entire 
passage from the stomach into the intestine. In these respects 
oysters, lean fish, and chicken are held to be even more digestible 
than lean beef, while fat fish, duck, goose, lobsters, and crabs 
are held to be of about the same order of digestibility with ham 
and pork. (See for instance the Table of Comparative Digesti- 
bility in Oilman Thompson's Practical Dietetics.) 

Place in the diet. From most standpoints poultry, fish, and 
shellfish may be regarded as interchangeable with the ordinary 
meats. The comparative economy of these different types 
of flesh food varies widely with locality and season. While 
game has become so scarce and costly as to be no longer an 
important factor in the food supply, the prices of poultry, fish, 
and shellfish appear at present to be rising less rapidly on the 
whole than the price of beef. The breaking up of the great 
cattle ranges into small cultivated farms naturally tends toward 

^One of the four experiments with chicken gave a result (03. 13) so much lower 
than the others as to suggest that it may not have been representative. If this result 
be omitted, the average becomes 97.93. 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 



247 



a relative (perhaps not absolute) decrease in beef production 
and an increase (both absolute and relative) in poultry culture. 
Oyster culture is becoming systematized so that, while oysters 
will doubtless remain an expensive food, the supply will probably 
increase. The fishery industries are also capable of great develop- 
ment both by improved methods of handHng the species now 
regarded as important and by utilizing as food the flesh of species 
which in the past have been neglected. Thus it is said that 
a few years ago sturgeon was so little prized as food that much 
of it was used as fertilizer, while now smoked sturgeon is in good 
demand, and that still more recently the garfish, formerly re- 
garded merely as a pest, has begun to find a market as a food 
fish. 

Since in the nature of the case the meat production of the 
country cannot be greatly increased except at the cost of a 
restricted output of other farm crops, we may anticipate a con- 
stantly increasing tendency towards better conservation and 
more economical utilization of the fishery products as food. 



REFERENCES 



Atwater and Bryant. The Composition of American Food Materials. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 

Bulletin 28 (Revised). 
KoNiG. Die Menschlichen Nahrungs- und Genussmitteln. 
Langworthy. Fish as Food. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Farmers' Bulletin 85 (Revised). 
Prescott and Winslow. Elements of Water Bacteriology, Chapter XII. 
Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 

TiBBLES. Foods : their Origin, Composition and Manufacture. 
United States Bureau of Fisheries. Reports and Bulletins. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 



248 FOOD PRODUCTS 



II 

Poultry and Game 

MiLNER. Experiments on the Digestibility of Fish and Poultry. Storrs 
(Conn.) Agricultural Experiment Station, Seventeenth Annual Report, 
pages 116-142 (1905). 

Wiley, et al. A Preliminary Study of the Effects of Cold Storage on Eggs, 
Quail, and Chickens. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau 
of Chemistry, Bulletin 115 (1908). 

Pennington. Studies of Poultry from the Farm to the Consumer. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Circular 64 
(1910). 

Houghton. Effect of Low Temperatures on Ground Chicken Meat. Jour- 
nal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 497-506 
(1911). 

Oldys. Game Market of To-day. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Yearbook for 1910, pages 243-254 (191 1). 

Pennington and Hepburn. The Occurrence and Permanence of Lipase 
in the Fat of the Common Fowl (Gallus domesticus). United States 
Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Circular 75 (191 1). 

Pennington, Witmer, and Pierce. The Comparative Rate of Decom- 
position of Drawn and Undrawn Market Poultry. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Circular 70 (191 1). 

Pennington and Hepburn, Studies on Chicken Fat. Journal of the 
American Chemical Society, Vol. 34, pages 210-222 (191 2). 

Pennington. The Hygienic and Economic Results of Refrigeration in the 
Conservation of Poultry and Eggs. American Journal of Public Health, 
Vol. 2, pages 840-848 (191 3). 

Pennington. The Handling of Dressed Poultry a Thousand Miles from 
the Market. United States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 
1912, pages 285-292 (1913). 

Pennington, Greenlee, et al. The Refrigeration of Dressed Poultry in 
Transit. United States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 17 (1913). 



Fish and Shellfish 

Conn. The Outbreak of Typhoid Fever at Wesleyan University. Con- 
necticut State Board of Health, Report for 1894, pages 243-264 (1894). 

MiLNER. Digestibility of Fish and Poultry. Storrs (Conn.) Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Seventeenth Annual Report, pages 116-142 (1905). 



POULTRY, GAME, FISH, AND SHELLFISH 249 

Bruhns. Bacteriological Condition of Market Fish. Archiv fiir Hygiene, 
Vol. 67, pages 209-236 (1909). 

Suzuki and Yoshimura. Extractive Substances of Fish Flesh. Zeitschrift 
fur physiologische Chemie, Vol. 62, pages 1-35 (1909). 

BucHAN. Typhoid Fever and Mussel Pollution. Journal of Hygiene, Vol. 
10, pages 569-585 (1910). 

MiLiyARD. Salmon Fishing in Pacific Waters. The Outlook for February, 
1910, pages 171-181. 

Newlands and Ham. Report to the State Board of Health of Connecticut 
on the Sanitary Investigation of Oyster Grounds in the New Haven 
Harbor (1910). 

Stiles. The Value of the Shellfish Industry and the Protection of Oysters 
from Sewage Contamination. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Yearbook for 1910, pages 371-378 (1910). 

BiGELOW and Bacon. Tin Salts in Canned Foods of Low Acid Content, 
with Special Reference to Canned Shrimp. Journal of Industrial and 
Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 832-834 (191 1). 

Bitting. Preparation of the Cod and Other Salt Fish for the Market. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulle- 
tin 133 (1911). 

BuTTENBERG. Clams. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und 
Genussmittel, Vol. 22, pages 81-88 (1911). 

Stiles. The Bacteriological Examinations of Shucked and Shell Oysters. 
Journal of the American Public Health Association, Vol. i, pages 623- 
631 (1911). 

Fahre-Domesque. Bacteriological Purification of Oysters in Filtered 
Water. Comptes Rendus de I'Academie des Sciences, Paris, Vol. 
154, pages 1257-1259 (1912). 

GoRHAM. Seasonal Variation in the Bacterial Content of Oysters. Ameri- 
can Journal of Pubhc Health, Vol. 2, pages 24-27 (1912). 

GoRHAM. Sanitary Regulation of the Oyster Industry. American Jour- 
nal of Pubhc Health, Vol. 2, pages 77-85 (191 2). 

Hanson. The Packing of American Sardines. Original Communications, 
Eighth International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 
131-138 (1912). 

Looms. Salmon Canning Industry of North America. Ihid., Vol. 18, 
pages 239-243 (191 2). 

Stiles. Sewage-polluted Oysters as a Cause of Typhoid and Other Gastro- 
intestinal Disturbances. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 156 (191 2). 

Pease. Hygienic Results of Refrigeration in the Conservation of Fish and 



250 FOOD PRODUCTS 

MoUusks. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 2, pages 849-854 

(1912-1913). 
Smith. Oysters; The World's Most Valuable Water Crop. National 

Geographic Magazine, Vol. 24, pages 257-281 (1913). 
Smith. A Study of the Influence of Cold-storage Temperatures upon the 

Chemical Composition and Nutritive Value of Fish. Biochemical 

Bulletin, Vol. 3, pages 54-68 (19 13). 
Perlzweig and Gies. A Further Study of the Chemical Composition and 

Nutritive Value of Fish Subjected to Prolonged Periods of Cold Storage. 

Biochemical Bulletin, Vol. 3, pages 69-71 (1913). 
KoNiG and Grossfeld. Fish Roe as Food for Man. Biochemisches 

Zeitschrift, Vol. 54, pages 351-394 (1913)- 
PoLiMANTi. Fat Content of Fish and its Biological Significance in Relation 

to their Habitat. Biochemisches Zeitschrift, Vol. 56, pages 439-445 

(1914). 
Wilson. The Comparative Chemistry of Muscle : The Partition of Non- 
Protein Water-soluble Nitrogen. Journal of Biological Chemistry 

Vol. 17, pages 385-400 (1914)- 
YosHiMURA and Kanai. Nitrogenous Constituents of Dried Cod Fish. 

Zeitschrift fur physiologische Chemie, Vol. 88, pages 346-351 (1914). 



CHAPTER VIII 
GRAIN PRODUCTS 

The cereals are much the most important of the grains used 
as food for man, but since a few grains not belonging botanically 
to the cereals are used for food (and also because " cereals " 
suggests only breakfast cereals to some readers) the term " grain 
products " is here used as the general designation to cover 
barley, buckwheat, corn or maize, oats, rice, rye, and wheat, and 
the various mill products made from them. 

The raising of grain plays a very large part in the agriculture 
of nearly all countries, and for the great majority of people 
grain products furnish more nutriment than does any other 
type of food material. Langworthy estimates from the results 
of about 400 dietary studies that grain products furnish 43.0 
per cent of the protein, 9.1 per cent of the fat, and 61.8 per cent 
of the carbohydrates of the average American dietary. Thus 
the quantities eaten furnish more carbohydrate and more 
than two thirds as much protein as all other food materials 
together. 

In the United States, according to the last census (Census of 
1 9 10 covering the year 1909), the grains represented approxi- 
mately one half (exact estimate, 48.6 per cent) of the entire value 
of all farm products. Much of this grain is fed to domestic 
animals, and the amount used as human food is not known. 
The amount of grain ground or milled in mills large enough to 
be classified as manufacturing establishments was estimated at 
806,247,961 bushels and the product valued at $883,584,405. 

251 



252 FOOD PRODUCTS 

The grains of most importance as human food and the chief 
mill products of each will be considered separately in the para- 
graphs which follow. It may, however, be said of all these 
grains that they consist chiefly of starch embedded in a network 
of protein material and protected by a fibrous coating known as 
the bran. A small part of the grain consists of the germ, which 
is usually much less starchy and much richer in protein and fat 
than the body of the kernel (the endosperm). In milling the 
grains for human food the outer layers and the germ are usually 
removed to a greater or less extent, as will be shown more fully 
below. Only in the case of wheat shall we take space to de- 
scribe the milling process. 

Barley 

The cultivated barleys belong to two or three different species 
of the genus Hordeum. 

■ The barley crop of the United States in 1909 was estimated 
at 173,000,000 bushels, valued at $92,459,000. It was grown 
principally in the states of Minnesota, North Dakota, California, 
South Dakota, Wisconsin, and Iowa. 

The grain is about as large as wheat, one hundred kernels 
weighing about 4 grams. As human food it appears in this 
country chiefly in the form of '' pearled barley," used mainly 
in soups, and " patent barley flour " for infant feeding. In 
making pearled barley the germ and most of the bran is removed 
without grinding the remainder of the grain. " Patent " barley 
flour is a finely ground product representing the grain from which 
the outer layers have been removed more completely than in 
making pearled barley, but perhaps not so completely as in 
making '' patent " flour from wheat. The following are com- 
parative analyses of barley (the entire kernel), pearled barley 
and patent barley flour (Table 27). 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 253 

Table 27, Composition of Barley and Barley Flour 



" Patent ' 
Barley 
Flour 



•Moisture Per cent 

Protein (nitrogen X 6.25) . . Per cent 
Fat (ether extract) .... Per cent 
Carbohydrates (by difference) Per cent 
Fuel value, Calories per pound . 
Weight of loo-Calorie portion, 

in grams 

in ounces 

Total ash Per cent 

Phosphorus (calc. as P2O5) . Per cent 
Iron (calc. as Fe) .... Per cent 



Barley 
(Entire 
Grain) 


Pearled 
Barley 


11.9 


II-3 


10.5 


8.5 


2.2 


I.I 


72.8 


77.8 


1610. 


1615. 


28. 


28. 


I.O 


1.0 


2.6 


1-3 


0.95 


0.46 


0.004 


0.0013 



10.3 
8.0 

1-7 
79-35 
1650. 

28. 
1.0 
0.65 
0.30 

O.OOIO 



I 



Notice in what respects the mill products differ from the 
original grain, and compare the corresponding data for other 
grain products beyond. 

Osborne found in barley an alcohol soluble protein, different 
from that of wheat or of rye, to which he gave the name '' hor- 
dein." The products of hydrolysis and the ultimate composi- 
tion of hordein are given in comparison with some other grain 
proteins beyond. The albumin, the globulin, and the proteose 
extracted from barley were judged by Osborne to be probably 
identical with the corresponding proteins found in wheat and 
rye. 

Barley which has begun to sprout (called malted barley or 
simply " malt ") is rich in an enzyme which digests starch with 
production of maltose. Enzymes which digest starch are called 
amylases, commonly also '' diastases." The characteristic 
enzyme of malted barley is commonly called malt diastase. 
On account of its high " diastatic power," due to abundance 
of this enzyme, barley malt is largely used in the fermentation 
industries as a means of digesting the starch (of the barley itself 
and often also of other grains) into fermentable sugar. More 



254 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



of the barley grown in the United States is used for this latter 
purpose than for food. 

Buckwheat 

Buckwheat, the seed of Fagopyrum esculentum, is not strictly 
a cereal (since the plant which bears it does not belong to the 
true grasses) but for practical discussion is usually grouped with 
the cereal grains. Although more popular as a food in the United 
States than elsewhere, the amount grown is small as compared 
with other grains. The production of 1909 was estimated at 
14,849,000 bushels, and valued at $9,331,000. 

The buckwheat kernel is about as large as that of wheat or 
barley and is characterized by its different shape and higher 
proportion of fiber due to its thick protective covering. The 
latter is rejected in milling the grain so that the " fine " buck- 
wheat flour has like " fine " wheat flour only a negligible amount 
of fiber — about one half of one per cent. 

Typical American analyses of buckwheat and buckwheat flour 
are as follows (Table 28) : 

Table 28. Composition of Buckwheat and Buckwheat Flour 





Buckwheat 
(Entire Grain) 


Buckwheat 
Flour 


Moisture 

Protein (nitrogen X 6.25) . 

Fat 


. Per cent 
. Per cent 
. Per cent 
. Per cent 
. Per cent 
. Per cent 


12.3 
10.7 

2.0 
62.8 
10.7 

1.8 


11.9 

8.7 
1.6 


Carbohydrates (other than fiber). 
Fiber 


76.2 
0.6 


Ash 


I.O 



In order to comply with the standard of the Association of 
Official Agricultural Chemists, buckwheat flour must contain 
not more than 12 per cent moisture, not less than 1.28 per cent 
nitrogen, and not more than 1.75 per cent of ash. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 255 

Maize or Indian Corn {Zea mays) 

Maize or Indian corn (commonly called " corn " in the United 
States, though the word corn in English literature usually refers 
to the wheat plant) is a native American plant and has long been 
(economically) the most important single crop raised in the 
United States. The area annually planted to maize in this 
country is said to be nearly equal to the entire area of France or 
Germany. A normal crop is estimated jDy the United States 
Department of Agriculture at 3,000,000,000 bushels and valued 
at something over $1,500,000,000. The Census returns for 
1909 showed 2,552,000,000 bushels valued at $1,439,000,000. 
According to Census reports, corn occupied, in 1909, 20.6 per 
cent of the improved farm land of the country and contributed 
26.2 per cent of the total value of crops. In Illinois and Iowa 
about one third of the improved farm land is occupied by corn, 
and in Kansas, Nebraska, and Missouri over one fourth. The 
relative distribution of corn culture throughout the United 
States is shown in Fig. 10 (Chapter VI). 

Of the total corn crop from 85 to 90 per cent is fed on farms 
and only 10 to 15 per cent comes to market. According to 
Census returns for 1909 only 209,281,237 bushels of corn were 
ground in mills large enough to be classed as manufacturing 
establishments. In addition to this, however, 2,240,508,915 
pounds (about 40,000,000 bushels) of corn were recorded as used 
for the manufacture of cornstarch and glucose. 

From the corn ground in the mills covered by the Census 
returns there were produced 21,552,737 barrels of corn meal 
and corn flour valued at $66,941,095. 

It will be seen that in the corn crop there is an enormous 
reserve supply of material suitable for human food. To any 
extent that the demand for corn meal makes it more profitable 
for the farmer to sell his corn to the miller than to use it in rais- 
ing and fattening farm animals, the supply of corn meal can be 



256 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



increased up to about ten times the amount now milled without 
necessarily increasing the amount of land devoted to corn raising. 
To use for human food a large proportion of the corn now fed to 
farm animals, would of course diminish somewhat the amount of 
meat produced, but as was pointed out in Chapter V, one can 
never recover in the edible iiesh of the carcass more than a small 
fraction of the protein and energy which was required for the 
growth and fattening of the animal. 

The following approximate analyses (Table 29) indicate the 
more significant differences in composition between (i) the kernel 
as a whole, (2) the " old process " corn meal made by grinding 
the entire kernel and sifting out only the larger particles of bran, 
(3) the " new process " corn meal in the making of which the 
bran is more completely removed and the germ is also rejected. 

Table 29. Analyses of Corn and Corn Meal 



Moisture Per cent 

Protein (nitrogen X 6.25) . . Per cent 

Fat Per cent 

Carbohydrate (other than 

fiber) Per cent 

Fiber Per cent 

Ash Per cent 

Phosphorus (calc. as P2O5) . Per cent 



Corn (En- 
tire Kernel) 


10.7 


lO.O 


4-3 


71.8 


1-7 


1-5 


0.7 



Old Process 
Corn Meal 



11.6 
9.0 
4-3 

72.5 
i-S 
1-3 
0.7 



New Process 
Corn Meal 



12.0 
7.8 
1-3 

78.5 
0.8 
0.6 
0.22 



To meet the requirements of the standards proposed by the 
Association of Official Agricultural Chemists, corn meal must 
contain not more than 14 per cent of moisture, not less than 
1. 1 2 per cent of nitrogen, and not more than 1.6 per cent of ash. 

The establishment of official grades and standards for corn 
itself is now under consideration in the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



257 



The composition of the corn kernel can be altered by breeding 
and selection. Hopkins and Smith of Illinois Agricultural Ex- 
periment Station starting with corn containing 10.92 per cent 
protein and 4.70 per cent fat have by breeding and selection 
through ten years (ten generations of the corn plant) produced 
a " high protein " strain with 14.26 per cent protein and a " low 
protein " strain with 8.64 per cent of protein ; also a " high fat " 
strain with 7.37 per cent, and a " low fat " strain with 2.66 per 
cent of fat. 

Osborne finds that corn contains an albumin, at least three 
globuUns, a proteose similar to that in wheat, an alcohol-soluble 
protein (different from those of other grains) to which the name 
zein has been given, and an insoluble glutelin. The zein and 
glutelin are included in the discussion of chemical structure and 
food value of grain proteins beyond. 

A maize kernel of the varieties chiefly cultivated in the United 
States has about ten times the weight of a kernel of wheat. 
Like the latter it has a fibrous outer skin beneath which is a 
layer rich in protein and phosphorus compounds which is often 
called the gluten layer; within these outer layers lie the 
germ, constituting about one tenth, and the endosperm, which 
makes up between eight tenths and nine tenths of the entire 
kernel. 

Table 30. CoMPOsmoN of Corn Kernel and its Parts (Wagner) 



I 











Carbo- 








Propor- 






hydrate 






Part 


tion OF 
THE Whole 


Protein 


Fat 


OTHER 

THAN 

Fiber 


Fiber 


Ash 




Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Original kernel 


lOO.O 


12.6 


4-3 


79-4 


2.0 


1-7 


Skin . . . 


5-5 


6.6 


1.6 


74.1 


16.4 


1.3 


Germ . . . 


10.2 


21.7 


29.6 


34-7 


2.9 


H.l 


Endosperm . 


84-3 


12.2 


1-5 


85.0 


0.6 


0.7 



258 FOOD PRODUCTS 

The bran obtained in the ordinary grinding of corn includes 
along with the fibrous hull a considerable proportion of the so- 
called gluten layer. When the corn kernel is soaked to loosen 
the skin, the latter may be removed alone, leaving the starchy 
and the " glutenous " parts of the endosperm together. Wagner 
gives the above analyses of the skin, the germ, and the en- 
dosperm as thus separated (Table 30). 

We have spoken of the hull as fibrous covering, yet the above 
analysis indicates that the fiber constitutes only about one 
fifth of the total carbohydrate of the hull. This is partly be- 
cause only the fiber sufiiciently resistant to remain after suc- 
cessive boiling with acid and alkali is reported as " fiber " in the 
analysis, while all the material (other than protein, fat, and ash) 
which is dissolved by the acid or the alkali is reported as " car- 
bohydrate other than fiber " or as " nitrogen-free extract." The 
latter therefore includes not only the starch, but also the pen- 
tosans and much of the so-called lignin or lignone substances, 
which in their chemical nature are not strictly carbohydrate but 
which are usually grouped with the carbohydrates because of 
their close association with cellulose. The material designated 
in the table as carbohydrate other than fiber is therefore quite 
different for different parts of the kernel : in the hull it is 
chiefly pentosan; in the endosperm, chiefly starch; in the 
germ there is much less starch and an appreciable amount 
of sugar. 

The chief differences in composition among the different 
parts of the corn kernel may be summarized a follows : The hulls 
contain much fiber and wood gum (pentosans) alid relatively 
little starch, protein, or fat ; the endosperm is rich in starch, low 
in fiber, relatively poor in fat and ash, and has about the same 
percentage of protein as the entire kernel; the germ contains 
Httle starch, but is rich in fat, protein, and ash. The fat is liquid 
at ordinary temperatures and therefore usually referred to as 
oil. It is classed as a " semi-drying " oil, being intermediate 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 259 

in properties between olive oil and linseed oil. The chemical 
nature and nutritive value of the proteins and ash constituents 
will be discussed along with those of wheat farther on in this 
chapter. 

The industrial process of separating and refining the chief 
components of corn will now be described in brief outline. 

Of an average corn crop of about 3,000,000,000 bushels it is esti- 
mated that about nine tenths will be used on the farms and about 
one tenth or 300,000,000 bushels will be sold. The corn sold 
is sometimes referred to as " cash corn." Of all the corn which 
leaves the farm, the milling and fermentation industries together 
take about five sixths, and nearly one sixth, or 40,000,000 to 
50,000,000 bushels per year, is used for the manufacture of corn 
starch, corn sirup, etc., as described below. 

Manufacture of Starch and Other Products from Corn 



The corn is first cleaned and sent to steeping tanks, where 
it is soaked (steeped) for about 2 days in warm water to 
which has been added a small amount of sulphurous acid 
to prevent putrefaction and assist in the loosening of the 
hull. 

This steeping causes the corn to swell, and brings about a 
softening of the endosperm which facilitates the subsequent 
separation of the germ. 

The steeped grain is then coarsely ground in mills so arranged 
as to disintegrate the kernel without breaking the germ. The 
type known as the Foos or Fuss mill, in which the grain is torn 
to pieces by passing between parallel studded plates which 
revolve in opposite directions, is generally used. 

The ground mass is then run into the " separators," which 
are long tanks or vats containing a mixture of starch and water 
of a density of 8° Baume (1.06 specific gravity). The germs, on 
account of the oil which they contain, float on this liquid, while 
the hulls and starch granules tend to settle to the bottom. The 



26o FOOD PRODUCTS 

separation is a continuous process, the ground mass being in- 
troduced at one end of the tank while at the other end the germs 
float off at the top and the other constituents are drawn off from 
the bottom. 

The germs are repeatedly washed with water to remove any 
adhering starch, then dried in revolving steam dryers and the 
oil extracted by pressure. At present the oil is employed to only 
a small extent for food, the greater part being used in making 
soaps and soap powders, in the tanning industry, in paint and 
putty, and in the manufacture of rubber substitutes and water- 
proofing and insulating materials. Oil cake, as the mass remain- 
ing after pressing the dried germs for oil is called, contains still 
a considerable amount of fat and is very rich in protein. At 
present most of this oil cake is exported to Europe, where it is 
used in stock-feeding, perhaps after removal of a further portion 
of oil. In view of the high food value of the germ and the fact 
that it constitutes about one tenth of the entire grain, it seems 
unfortunate that it enters so httle into human consumption. 

The coarsely ground mass drawn off from the bottoms of 
the separator tanks as described above, and which represents 
all of the corn except the germ and the water-soluble substances, 
is reground in burr-stone mills {" Buhr " mills) and the semi- 
liquid mass passed over " shakers." These are mechanically 
shaken sieves of bolting cloth of about 200 mesh which sift 
out the particles of hull while the starch granules and most of 
the protein pass through. The hulls are sprayed with water 
while on the sieves and are usually reground and the process 
repeated two or three times to complete the removal of the starch 
from the particles of hull. The final disposition of the hull is 
described in the paragraph on by-products below. 

The liquid which has passed through the " shakers," and 
which contains practically all of the starch and most of the pro- 
tein of the corn, is known as the raw starch liquor. This is 
adjusted to density of 4° to 5° Baume (1.03 to 1.045 specific 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 261 

gravity) and then passed into very long flat-bottomed tanks 
known as " runs " or " tables." These are almost level, being 
usually 100 to 120 feet long and inclined only about 4 inches. 
As the raw starch liquor flows slowly down the run, the starch 
granules settle out gradually and in rolling along the bottom 
before finally coming to rest they tend to rub each other free 
from adherent protein. The length and inclination of the " runs " 
and the concentration of the raw starch liquor are so adjusted 
that nearly aU of the starch settles before reaching the lower 
end of the run, while most of the protein remains suspended in 
the water which flows out and which is known as the " gluten 
liquor." The solids of this " gluten liquor " are recovered in 
the gluten feed described in the paragraph on by-products 
below. 

When the " gluten liquor " has been drained off from the 
" run " the starch which has settled is found in a very compact 
deposit which may be dug out in blocks like stiff wet clay. As 
taken from the " tables " or " runs " it is known as '' green 
starch." This may be utilized directly for the manufacture 
of glucose or corn sirup. To refine the " green starch " for 
eating or for industrial use it is stirred with water and again 
sent over the " run," or washed more quickly by decantation, 
according to the degree to which the starch is to be freed from 
protein ; or in preparation for certain purposes it may be washed 
with dilute alkah. The latter is more effective in removing 
the protein than is water alone, but the subsequent removal 
of the alkali from the starch is difficult. Being used for many 
industrial purposes as well as for food, starch and dextrin are 
prepared in a variety of forms the description of which does not 
come within the scope of this book. 

For the manufacture of commercial glucose, the " green 
starch " is stirred with water to make a suspension of a density 
of about 20° to 22° Baume (1.16 to 1.18 specific gravity), to 
which is added hydrochloric acid in such proportion as to make 



262 FOOD PRODUCTS 

about O.I per cent of actual acid in the entire mixture. This 
mixture is treated with superheated steam in strong metal 
cylinders called converters. The converters now in use are six 
feet in diameter and may be as much as twenty feet high. By 
running in superheated steam up to a pressure of 35 pounds per 
square inch, the hydrolysis of the starch is greatly accelerated 
and is brought to the desired point in a few minutes. The 
pressure is then released and the acid neutralized with sodium 
carbonate. The neutral solution is then filtered clear, concen- 
trated by evaporation, decolorized by running through bone- 
black filters like those used in the refining of cane sugar (Chapter 
XI), and finally evaporated further to a viscous sirup containing 
80 per cent or more of solids. 

The average composition of this sirup according to Wagner is : 

Per Cent 

Water 19.0 

Glucose (Dextrose) -38.5 

Dextrin 42.0 

Ash 0.5 

In this case it is assumed that glucose (dextrose) is the only 
reducing sugar present. According to Rolfe and Defren, how- 
ever, there would be present at the stage of hydrolysis reached 
in this process, a considerable amount of maltose, so that the 
actual percentage of glucose would be less than that given by 
Wagner. In any case it will be seen that considerably less than 
half of the carbohydrate material is actually in the form of 
glucose. This product is called " commercial glucose " or 
'' corn sirup " ; to call it simply glucose is obviously inaccurate 
and contrary to the regulation that a food product which is a 
mixture must not be sold under the name of a single constituent. 

The manufacture of purified corn starch and of corn sirup or 
commercial glucose are usually carried on in the same factories. 
Both industries have developed rapidly in recent years. Accord- 
ing to the Census report there were produced in the United 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



263 



States, in 1909 : 638,825,366 pounds of corn starch valued at 
$15,962,916; 769,660,210 pounds of commercial glucose sirups 
valued at $17,922,514; 159,060,478 pounds of solid glucose 
valued at $3,620,816; 8,164,175 gallons of corn oil valued at 
$2,802,768; $6,013,968 worth of stock food and $924,422 worth 
of miscellaneous by-products of this industry. 

The characteristics and uses of commercial glucose sirup will 
be considered further in Chapter XL 

By-products. In addition to the starches, sirups, and glucose 
sugars which may be considered the direct products of this in- 
dustry, we have already discussed the utilization of the corn oil 
and the oil cake or germ meal. The washed hulls, the " gluten 
liquor," and the soluble substances extracted when the corn 
was steeped in warm water at the beginning of the process remain 
to be considered. 

While giving the composition of the isolated skin of the corn 
kernel as in Table 30 above Wagner states that the corn hulls 
obtained in the process just described contain when dry as much 
as 14 per cent protein and may therefore be considered as a cattle 
food of considerable value. The custom, however, is not to 
market the hulls alone, but to mix them with the protein obtained 
from the liquor which has passed over the runs. 

When the solids of the " gluten liquor " are dried alone, there 
is obtained a '' gluten meal " which averages over 40 per cent 
of protein. Usually, however, the gluten meal, the hulls, and 
the concentrated steep-water are dried together. 

The steep-water contains the greater part of all the constit- 
uents of the corn which are readily soluble in slightly acidulated 
water, such as the ready-formed sugars of the kernel, some of the 
proteins, the " nitrogenous extractives," much of the organic 
phosphorus compounds such as phytin, and the greater part of 
the ash constituents. The following partial analysis of the 
solids of the steep-water (also called " corn solubles ") is given 
by Wagner: 



264 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Per Cent 

Nitrogenous substances 38-43 

Reducing sugars as dextrose 25-30 

Phosphorus (calc. as P2O5) . •■ 6-8 

Potash (K2O) 5-6 

Magnesia (MgO) 2-3 

The general similarity of this material to meat extract and 
yeast extracts suggests that it may have an interesting future in 
the food industries. At present the steep-water is concentrated, 
mixed with the wet hulls and the solids of the " gluten liquor," 
and the whole dried, ground, and sold as " gluten feed." The 
average composition of this gluten feed is given by Wagner as 
follows : 

Per Cent 



Moisture .... 










10.36 


Protein .... 










25-95 


Fat 










2.18 


Starch 










18.09 


Fiber .'.... 










6.50 


Other carbohydrates 










33-22 


Ash 










3-70 



The more efficient the factory the higher is the percentage 
of protein and the lower the percentage of starch and vice versa. 



Oats 

Oats belong to different species of the genus Avena, the kind 
commonly cultivated being Avena saliva. Oats culture is 
widely distributed over Europe and America, and the grain very 
generally used both as human food and for feeding farm animals. 

According to census reports the oat crop of the United States 
in 1909 was 1,007,000,000 bushels valued at $415,000,000. 
Of the total oat crop about one twentieth (50,241,598 bushels) 
was reported among the materials used by the milling industry, 
and an unknown amount was used in the manufacture of specially 
prepared '' breakfast foods." 

The husk of the oat adheres closely to the grain and is not 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



265 



usually removed before sending the grain to market. The 
following analyses of oats with and without the husks and of 
oatmeal as ordinarily ground are from bulletins of the United 
States Department of Agriculture. 

Table 31. Analyses of Oats and Oat Products 



Rolled 
Oats 



Moisture Per cent 

Protein Per cent 

Fat Per cent 

Fiber Per cent 

Carbohydrates, other 

than fiber . . . Per cent 
Ash Per cent 



Oats, en- 
tire Ker- 
nel with 
Husk 


Oat 

Kernel 

without 

Husk 


Oatmeal 


10.06 


6.93 


7.3 


12.15 


14-31 


16.1 


4-33 


8.14 


7-2 


12.07 


1-38 


0.9 


57-93 
346 


67.09 
2.15 


67-5 
1.9 



7-7 
16.7 

7-3 
1-3 

66.2 
2.1 



It is evident from these averages that in general oatmeal and 
rolled oats have about the same composition and represent nearly 
the whole of the oat kernel. In the making of these products 
the chaffy husk is of course eliminated and with it is usually 
removed a portion of the skin of the kernel, and sometimes the 
tips of the kernels are also scoured off, but the greater part of 
the germ and a considerable part of the outer layers of the kernel 
remain in the product offered for sale. Oatmeal and rolled oats 
are therefore relatively rich in fat as well as in protein, and are 
somewhat more concentrated foods, both from the standpoint 
of energy value and protein content, than are the other staple 
grain products. 

The proteins of oats have proven particularly difficult to 
purify and have therefore not yet been studied so thoroughly as 
have some of the other grain proteins. 

Farther on in this chapter the nutritive value of oat products 
and their place in the diet will be considered in connection' with 
the same characteristics of other grain products. 



266 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Rice {Oryza sativa) 

If the population of the entire globe be considered, rice is 
probably the most used as human food of all the grains, since 
it enters so largely into the dietary of the people of India, China, 
and Japan. 

In the United States rice plays the part only of a minor cereal, 
but its cultivation is increasing, especially in Louisiana and Texas. 
Smaller areas are devoted to rice culture in the South Atlantic 
States. The production of rough rice (rice before milling or 
polishing) in the United States in 1909 was estimated at 21,839,- 
000 bushels, and the value at $16,020,000. 

Rice has been commonly marketed in this country either, (i) 
unhulled, i.e. with the chaffy husk still covering the kernel ; 
(2) " cured," freed from husk but not from bran ; (3) polished 
(white). The following comparative analyses (Table 32) of rice 
in these three conditions are from Bulletin 13, Bureau of Chemis- 
try, United States Department of Agriculture, except the figures 
for phosphorus, which have been added by the author. 

Table 32. Analyses of Rice 



Weight of 100 kernels .... Grams 

Moisture Per cent 

Protein Per cent 

Fat Per cent 

Fiber Per cent 

Carbohydrates other than fiber . Per cent 

Ash Per cent 

Phosphorus calc. as P2O5 . . . Per cent 



Unhulled 


" Cured " 


Rice 


Rice 


2.929 


2.466 


10.28 


11.88 


7-95 


8.02 


1.65 


1.96 


10.42 


0.93 


65.60 


76.05 


4.09 


I-I5 




0.65 



Polished 
Rice 



2.132 
12.34 
7.18 
0.26 
0.40 
79-36 
0.46 
0.20 



It will be seen that the "polishing " of the rice kernel removes 
only about one eighth of its weight but more than half of its 
ash constituents. The ash in both cases is composed chiefly 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 267 

of phosphates, about one half of the weight of ash being P2O6. 
It has been known for some time, especially in Japan and the 
Philippines, that a diet consisting chiefly of polished rice is likely 
to result in the disease beriberi, and by careful observation and 
experiment it was decided that rice which had been polished so 
as to contain less than 0.40 per cent of P2O5 was unsafe for 
use as the chief article of food, as rice often is used in those 
countries. The frequency with which beriberi follows a de- 
ficient diet, such as one consisting mainly of highly polished rice, 
and the certainty with which it can be prevented by simply 
substituting unpolished (also called '' cured ") rice, shows 
plainly that the removal of the outer portions of the rice kernel 
as in the " polishing " process results in a deficiency of some 
substance or substances which occur in that part of the grain 
and which are important for the maintenance of health. Beri- 
beri is therefore considered typical of the " deficiency diseases." 
The limit to which rice may be " refined " without becoming 
markedly deficient has been determined in terms of its phos- 
phorus content, audit is altogether probable that a diet of poHshed 
rice taken in sufficient quantity to furnish all the energy re- 
quired in nutrition would fail to furnish an adequate supply of 
phosphorus. Recent experiments indicate, however, that so 
far as beriberi is concerned, the deficiency of the polished rice 
is due more particularly to the removal of certain non-protein 
nitrogen compounds to which the general term '' vitamines " 
has been given. Those who desire to study this subject further 
may be referred to Vedder's book Beriberi (New York, 19 13) 
and to the journal literature cited in the references given at the 
end of this chapter. 

Partly as a result of the interest aroused by the rather striking 
demonstration in the Philippines of the impoverishment of rice 
by the complete removal of the outer layers to make a white 
product, '' cured " or " brown " rice is now being intro'duced 
in the grocery trade. 



268 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Rye {Secale cereale) 

Rye is said to be the hardiest of the cereals and in parts of 
Europe is more commonly used as a bread-making material than 
wheat. The United States produces less than one twentieth 
as much rye as wheat, the rye crop for 1909 being 29,520,000 
bushels valued at $20,422,000. The census of manufactures 
for the same year shows 11,503,969 bushels of rye used and 
1,532,139 barrels of rye flour produced by the flour and grist 
mills large enough to be listed as manufacturing establishments. 
The mean composition of 20 samples of rye (18 of which were 
grown in the United States) analyzed at the World's Fair at 
Chicago in 1893 was as follows: 

Weight of 100 kernels Grams 2.516 

Moisture Per cent 10.77 

Protein Per cent 12.26 

Fat Per cent 1.58 

Fiber Per cent 2.08 

Carbohydrates, other than fiber Per cent 71.42 

Ash Per cent 1.92 

In bread-making qualities rye approaches wheat more nearly 
than does any other grain. 

Osborne has investigated the proteins of rye and reports that 
they are similar to, but not identical with, those of wheat. 
The presence of a large amount of gummy carbohydrate in rye 
makes the separation and purification of the rye proteins un- 
usually difficult. Only the alcohol-soluble protein (prolamin) 
of the rye has been obtained satisfactorily purified in sufficient 
quantity for examinatibn by modern methods. The products 
of its hydrolysis are shown in comparison with those of wheat 
and maize proteins beyond. 

Wheat 

Wheat is the typical bread-making grain and the one most 
used for human food in the United States, in English-speaking 
countries generally, and in probably the greater part of Europe. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 269 

The different cultivated varieties of wheat all belong to the same 
genus {Triticum), but not all to one species. The wheat most 
commonly grown in America is Triticum vulgare, and probably 
the next most important from our standpoint is Triticum durum, 
which is valuable because of its ability to resist drouth and also 
because of yielding a flour suited to the manufacture of macaroni. 
Wheat is often classified as " hard " or " softj" as ",spring" 
or ^^ winter " wheat, and also according to the locality in which 
it is grown. 

Winter wheat is sown in the autumn in regions where the 
winter is not severe, and matures early in the summer. Spring 
wheat, which is grown mainly in the Northwestern states, in- 
cluding Minnesota and the Dakotas, and in Canada, is sown in 
die spring and m atures in ^ the l ate summer ^ There are many 
varieties of both classes, and the composition and properties 
vary with variety and environment. As a rule, winter wheats 
are softer and somewhat more starchy ; the spring wheats harder 
and slightly richer in protein^ In general a rather hard wheat 
of more than average protein content is preferred for the manu- 
facture of bread flour, but the wheats with most protein do not 
necessarily make the best flour, since the bread-making quality 
depends upon the nature and quantitative relationship of the 
proteins and not simply on the amount present. 

In bulk and value of crop, wheat ranks second to corn in 
production in the United States, but in quantity sold from the 
farms and sent into commerce it ranks first among the grains. 
The last United States Census shows a production in 1909 of 
683,000,000 bushels valued at $658,000,000. 

The states contributing most largely to this total were North 
Dakota, Kansas, Minnesota, and South Dakota, these four 
states having over two fifths of the wheat acreage of the United 
States. 

The Census returns for exports of wheat and flour for the year 
corresponding to the crop of 1909 show the equivalent of 87,364,- 



270 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



ooo bushels of wheat, or practically one eighth of the amount 
raised. The amount consumed in the United States may there- 
fore be estimated at about 6.5 bushels per person per year. 
Apparently the per capita consumption of wheat is nearly the 
same in America and in England, Hutchison's estimate from 
EngHsh data being 6 bushels. 

Census returns show 496,480,314 bushels of wheat ground in 
1909 in flour and grist mills in the United States large enough 
to be classed as manufacturing establishments. The corre- 
sponding production of flour was 105,756,645 barrels valued at 
$550,116,254. 

The structure of the wheat kernel is doubtless already famihar 
to most readers of this book. We shall therefore not repeat the 





Fig. 20. — Diagram of grain of wheat, longitudinal and transverse sections. 
a, bran ; b, aleurone layer ; c, starch cells of endosperm ; d, germ. 



description here, and it must be understood that this paragraph 
is not intended as an adequate description but only as a reminder 
of a few of the points which are to be kept in mind when con- 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 271 

sidering the production and composition of the mill products. 
It should also be clearly understood that Fig. 20, representing 
some features in the structure of the wheat kernel, is only a 
diagram to illustrate these few points and is not intended as 
a complete picture. The bran, which is actually composed of 
several layers, is shown at a. The square cells of the aleurone 
layer are shown at h, while c represents the endosperm made up 
chiefly of " starch cells " which, however, always contain protein 
as well as starch. The germ or embryo, d, is shown at one end 
of the longitudinal section, but does not appear in the transverse 
section, since the germ does not extend to the middle of the kernel. 
The deep crease extending from end to end of the wheat kernel 
increases the surface considerably so that the percentage of bran 
and of aleurone layer is larger than would otherwise be the case. 
It is estimated that the bran proper (including epidermis, 
epicarp, endocarp, and testa) constitutes about 5 per cent, the 
aleurone layer about 8 per cent, the germ with its membrane 
about 5 per cent, and the " starch cells " about 82 per cent of 
the entire grain. The '' bran " obtained in milling may con- 
tain not only the bran proper, but also the germ and more or 
less of the aleurone layer, depending upon the processes employed. 
The flour obtained in ordinary milling contains more or less 
of the aleurone layer, which is rich in protein and in phosphorus 
compounds, and most of the '' starch cells " of the original kernel. 
From the relative proportions in which these exist in the grain 
it is evident that much the larger part of ordinary white flour 
must consist of these starch cells, and their general nature should 
therefore be kept in mind. Each cell contains hundreds of 
starch granules of various sizes embedded in a network of pro- 
toplasmic material composed essentially of protein matter, in 
this case chiefly gliadin and glutenin, the proteins which to- 
gether form the characteristic gluten of wheat flour. The ac- 
companying diagrams (Fig. 21) published by the United States 
Department of Agriculture illustrate respectively the pro to- 



272 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



plasmic structure or protein components of the cell and the 
starch granules which are found deposited in it. A view through 
both of these diagrams would represent the structure and com- 
position of the " starch cell " as a whole. It should be clear that 
even the whitest and most starchy part of the wheat kernel con- 
tains a significant amount of protein. 

The granules of wheat starch vary greatly in size — in fact, 
this is one of the properties by which wheat flour is identified 





Fig. 21. — Diagram of "starch cells" or "flour cells" of wheat, 
network of protein ; B, showing starch granules. 



A, showing 



under the microscope. That the average size is quite small 
may be appreciated from the fact that a kernel of wheat weighing 
less than 0.04 gram is estimated to contain from 10,000,000 
to 20,000,000 starch granules. 

The wheat proteins have been extensively investigated, 
especially by Osborne.^ Gliadin and glutenin together form 
wheat gluten and constitute about nine tenths of the protein 
matter of the grain. In the whole kernel these two proteins 



^ Osborne, The Proteins of the Wheat Kernel, 
stitution of Washington. 



Publication No. 84, Carnegie In- 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



273 



are present in about equal proportions, but iruadieatJbiir tliere_ 
^ more gliadin l^han glutenin^ Gliadin is the best known of the 
alcohol-soluble proteins, and glutenin of the glutelins. In 
a general way it may be said that gliadin gives tenacity and 
elasticitj^ tojhe gluten. , while glutenin gives it strength, and that~ 
the two proteins must be present in proper proportions if the 
gluten is to have the properties desired in bread making. 

In addition to the two principal proteins, Osborne finds in wheat : an 
albumin, leucosin ; a globulin, edestin ; and a proteose. 

The ultimate composition of the ash-free proteins is given by Osborne ^ 
as follows : 

Table ^3- Ultimate Composition of Wheat Proteins (Osborne) 





Approximate 
Amount in 


Carbon 


Hydro- 


Nitro- 


Sulphur 


Oxygen 




Wheat Kernel 














Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Gliadin . 


4-5 


52.72 


6.86 


17.66 


1.03 


21.73 


Glutenin . 


4.0 


52.34 


6.83 


17.49 


1.08 


22.26 


Globulin . 


0.6 


51-03 


6.85 


18.39 


0.69 


23.04 


Leucosin . 


0.4 


53-02 


6.84 


16.80 


1.28 


22.06 


Proteose —a. 


0.2 


49.94 


6.80 


17.08 


1.24 


24.94 


Proteose — b. 


0.2 


48.99 


6.8s 


16.89 


1. 10 


26.17 



The proteose (which like the albumin and the globulin is chiefly found in 
the germ) appeared to be a mixture of two substances, a and b, the first of 
which was precipitated when its solution was saturated with sodium chloride 
while the second was not. 

It will be seen that all of the wheat proteins contain more than 16 per cent 
of nitrogen, so that if the percentage of nitrogen in wheat products is multi- 
plied by 6.25, a result higher than the actual amount of protein is obtained. 
As a whole the wheat proteins contain about 17.55 P^r cent of nitrogen so 
that the factor for converting nitrogen to proteins should be about 5.7 if the 
true weight of proteins and of carbohydrates by difference is sought, and this 
factor as well as the factor 6.25 is frequently used. For most of the purposes 

^ Osborne has also investigated the amino acids obtained by hydrolysis of 
gliadin, glutenin, and leucosin with the results shown in comparison with other 
grain proteins beyond. 



274 FOOD PRODUCTS 

of food chemistry and nutrition, however, the term " protein " as used in 
proximate analyses and dietary calculations is understood to mean the prod- 
uct obtained by multiplying the weight or percentage of nitrogen by the 
factor 6.25, which should therefore be uniformly used in such cases. 

Flour and Bread 

The making of flour has gradually developed from crushing 
the grain by hand between two stones to the highly elaborate 
mechanical processes now in use in the large milling centers 
where a single mill often requires acres of floor space and an 
enormous investment in machinery. 

For a long period wheat was ground between millstones and 
the product sifted. The coarser material was sold as bran, the 
white material which passed the finer bolting cloth was " flour," 
and the material of intermediate size and color containing many 
small particles of bran was called " middlings." 

That process has now been almost entirely replaced by the 
roller process, in which the wheat instead of being ground between 
stones is crushed between steel rolls. This process gives a some- 
what more complete separation of the starchy endosperm from 
the bran and so yields a somewhat larger proportion of white 
flour than did the older process. In the roller process as now 
common' V carried out, about 75 per cent of the weight of cleaned 
wheat is obtained as white flour and the remainder is sold chiefly 
for stockfeeding under such names as " wheat offals," " bran," 
and '' shorts." Under this process the term " middhngs " 
is applied to the material yielded by that part of the endosperm 
which is relatively rich in protein and therefore not so quickly 
nor so finely pulverized as the more starchy portion but which 
k only yellowish, not brown in color, and quite distinct from 
the bran. Thus " middlings," as the term is now used, is con- 
sidered by the miller a desirable constituent of flour, since it 
does not materially affect the color and . on account cf its high 
gluten content, it enhances the bread-making quality. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



275 



I 



It seems unnecessary to take space here for more than a brief 
outline of the roller process, especially since detailed and il- 
lustrated descriptions are so readily obtainable from some of 
the large millers. 

Wheat which has been screened and cleaned is first passed 
between a pair of corrugated rollers, known as the " first break," 
where the kernel is flattened and somewhat crushed and a 
small amount of flour known as the " break " or " first break " 
flour is separated by means of sieves while the main portion is 
conveyed to the " second break " where the kernels are more 
completely flattened and granular flour particles are partially 
separated from the bran. The material passes over several 
pairs of rolls or breaks, each succeeding pair being set a little 
nearer together. This is called the " gradual reduction process," 
and effects a more complete separation of the flour and bran 
than was possible in the older processes in which the wheat was 
ground fine in one operation. The. effect of passing through 
these rollers is to pulverize the inner floury part of the wheat 
grain, to flatten the bran (and germ), and to break up the inter- 
mediate portion into what is called " middHngs." The flour is 
obtained by sifting, the bran and dust are separated from the 
middlings by means of coarser sieves, aspirators, and other 
devices, and the purified middlings are then passed between 
smooth rolls, where they are reduced to the desired degree of 
fineness, or, as it is sometimes expressed, where the granulation 
is completed. 

The best grades of patent flour are not made entirely smooth 
and homogeneous, but are rather made to have a characteristic 
feel, which is due to the granulated middlings which these flours 
contain. A flour which has no granular feeling is not usually 
considered of the highest grade, but is generally rated as a soft 
wheat flour of poorer gluten. On the other hand, the flour 
should not be too coarsely granulated, and the miller in order 
to obtain the desired product must be careful in blending the 



276 FOOD PRODUCTS 

powdered flour obtained from earlier breaks with the granular 
flour obtained from the middlings. 

The flour from the middlings finally passes through silk bolt- 
ing cloths of 100 mesh or finer, the dust and particles of debris 
having been removed at various points in the milling process. 

In some large mills in order to secure a better granulation 
and more complete removal of the offals the grain passes through 
so many rollers and sieves that 40 or more different streams of 
flour are obtained from the same lot of wheat. Many of these 
streams are then usually brought together to produce the finished 
flour of the ordinary commercial grades. The break flours are 
those obtained from the earlier crushings of the wheat and con- 
sist mainly of the innermost powdery portion of the grain, while 
the patent flours contain more of the harder portion known as the 
middlings, but no absolute definition of the term ^' patent flour " 
can be given because of differences in usage in different parts 
of the country. Generally the first and second patent flours 
are spoken of as " ^h-grade," which term may also include what 
is called " standard patent flour " or " straight grade flour " ; 
or the " straight grade " may be divided between the high grade 
and low grade classes. To the low grade flour belong what are 
called the " second clear " and the " re^i^iogr^' About 72 per 
cent of the clean wheat is recovered in the higher grades of flour 
and about 2 or 3 per cent as merchantable white flour of lower 
grade. The higher grades are characterized by a lighter color, 
more elastic gluten, better granulation, and a smaller number 
of debris particles. The low grade flours contain a somewhat 
higher percentage of protein but are not as valuable for bread- 
making purposes because the gluten is less elastic. 

Technical terms of the flour trade are sometimes confusing. 
Thus " 95 per cent patent," means that 95 per cent of the total 
flour (not of total grain) is included in the patent, while an " 85 
per cent patent " is a higher grade of flour which constitutes 
only 85 per cent of the total flour obtained in the given process. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



277 



The composition of the mill products of wheat may vary both 
with the wheat and with the details of the process. The follow- 
ing analyses (Table 34) are for products all milled by the modern 
roller process from the same lot of Minnesota hard spring wheat 
and are therefore strictly comparable with each other. The 
differences of composition are therefore properly attributable 
to the separations effected by the milUng process alone. 

Table 34. Analysis of Wheat and the Products of Roller 
Milling {United States Department of Agriculture) 



Milling Product 



First patent flour .... 
Second patent flour . . . 
First clear grade flour 
Straight or standard patent flo. 
Second clear grade flour . 
" Red dog " flour . 
Shorts— .... 
Bran ^. , . . . 
^Entire wheat flour v 
vGraham flour ^ • • 
Wheat ground in laboratory 
Germ 



Water 



Per cent 

10.49 
10.13 
10.54 

10.08 

9.17 

8.73 

9.99 

10.81 

8.61 
8.50 

8-73 



Protein 

(NX5.7) 



Per cent 
11.08 
II. 14 

13-74 
11.99 

15-03 
18.98 
14.87 
14.02 
12.26 
12.65 
12.65 
27.24 



Fat 



Per cent 

i-iS 
1.20 
2.20 

I.6I 

3-77 
7.00 

6-37 
4-39 
2.24 
2.44 
2.36 
11.23 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates 



Per cent 
76.85 
76.75 
73-13 
75-36 
69-37 
61.37 

65-47 
65-54 
73-67 
74-58 
74.69 
48.09 



Ash 



Per cent 

0.37 

.42 

.80 

•50 

1-75 

3-48 

4-56 

6.06 

1.02 

1.72 

1.80 

4.71 



These analyses show a gradual increase in the protein content ^ 
from first patent to red dog flour, but the " red dog " flour, 
while containing the most protein, is the poorest grade of flour 
from the standpoint of the baker, and in the milling of wheat it 
often is allowed to remain with offals and sold for cattle food. 
It will also be seen that the percentage of ash is lowest in those 
flours which are commercially rated as of highest grade and in- 

1 Note that in the above table the percentage of protein is that of nitrogen muUi- 
pHed by 5.7 for the reason explained above (page 273). Increasing the. protein 
figures in the above table by one tenth gives essentially the results which would be 
obtained by the use of the more common factor 6.25. 



278 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



creases as we go down the list to the lower commercial grades 
of flour. Patent flour rarely contains more than .55 per cent ash 
and usually contains less than .5 per cent. 

Snyder points out, however, that noticeable variations occur 
in the amount of mineral matter or ash in different wheats. 
It may also be pointed out that the ash constituents of wheat 
are many of them of distinct nutritive value, so that it is only 
from a commercial and not from a nutritive standpoint that we 
would classify a flour as low grad<e because it has a relatively 
high ash content. 

Another study of the mill products of wheat made by Teller 
at the Arkansas Experiment Station, 1894 to 1898,^ included 
a milling experiment in which the principal products of a long 
process (7 break) roller mill were analyzed with the following 
results : 

Table 35. Percentage Composition of Mill Products of Wheat 

(Teller) 





Patent 
Flour 


Straight 
Flour 


Low 
Grade 
Flour 


Ship 
Stuff 


Bran 


Whole 
Wheat 


Pure 
Germ 


Water . . . 
Ash ... . 
Crude fiber . . 
Fat .... 
Protein (NX 5.7)2 
Carbohydrates . 


13-75 

■35 

•17 

1.05 

9.69 

75-OI 


13.90 

•47 

.26 

1.25 

10.37 

73-75 


13.22 
.90 

-74 

1.70 

12.88 

70.56 


12.25 
3.12 

3-55 

4.80 

16.36 

59.02 


12.85 

5-8o 

6.14 

5.20 

15-56 

54-45 


13.90 

2.15 

2.17 

2.15 

12.31 

63.32 


6.80 

4-65 

1.60 

14.38 

36.00 

36.55 


Total Nitrogen . 


1.70 


1.82 


2.26 


2.87 


2.73 


2.16 


6.34 



In this investigation Teller also determined the amount of 
each of four different forms of nitrogen compounds in each of 
the main mill products, with the results shown in Table 36. 

1 Bulletins 42 and 53, Arkansas Experiment Station (Fayetteville, Ark.). 

2 For explanation of this factor for estimating protein from nitrogen see page 273. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



279 



It will be seen that the higher commercial grades of flour, that 
is, those most prized for bread making, show the largest pro- 
portion of gliadin whether this be reckoned in percentage of the 
gluten or of the total proteins present. The quality of making 
an elastic dough capable of large expansion in the bread-making 
process depends upon both the amount and the nature of the 
gluten. In order to make a large light loaf of bread, the flour 
should have a fairly high gluten content, and its gluten should 
contain a high proportion of gliadin. 

Table 36. Distribution of Nitrogen in Mill Products (Teller) 





Different Forms of Nitrogen in Percentage 
OF Total 


Percentage 
OF Gliadin 

IN THE 

Gluten 




Gliadin 
Nitrogen 


Glutenin 
Nitrogen 


Edestin and 
Leucosin 
Nitrogen 


Amid 
Nitrogen 


Patent floitr . . . 
Straight flour 
Low grade flour . 
Ship stuff .... 

Bran 

Sifted dust . . . 


64.2 
S4-0 
50-5 
46.2 

23-5 
11.8 


27.7 
37-4 
37-7 
36.6 
50.0 
61.7 


6.4 
7.0 

9-5 
13.0 
17.8 
11.8 


1-7 
1.6 

2-3 
4.2 

8.5 
I4-.7 


69.9 
59-1 
57-3 
55-8 
319 
16.1 



Analyses of flours with reference to their bread-making value 
often include determination of total nitrogen and of the 
" gliadin number " which shows what percentage of the total 
protein is in the form of gliadin. 

Absorption, expansion, and baking tests may also be required 
in an examination of flour as to its bread-making qualities. 
Directions for making such tests may be found in Leach's 
Food Inspection and Analysis. 

The making of bread, always prominent among household 
pursuits, is now also a large commercial industry. Bread and 
other bakery products made in the United States in bakeries 
large enough to be classified as manufacturing establishments 



28o FOOD PRODUCTS 

in 1909 amounted in value according to Census reports to 
$396,865,000. 

In recent years much careful study has been devoted to the 
making and judging of bread. A description of bread-making 
processes would lead beyond t*he scope of this work, but the 
qualities by which the product is judged may be concisely in- 
dicated by reproducing here the following recent and authori- 
tative score card for bread. 

Revised Score Card of Miss Bevier ^ 
General Appearance 20 

Size (5) 

Shape (5) 

Crust (10) 

Color 

Character 

Depth 

Flavor 35 

Odor 
Taste 

Lightness 15 

Crumb . 30 

Character (20) 
Coarse — fine 
Tough — tender 
Moist — dry 
Elastic or not 
Color (5) 

Grain — Distribution of gas (5) 

Total 100 

Leavening agents. Compressed yeast is commonly used for 
leavening bread dough and the production of such yeast is now 
an important adjunct of the fermentation industry. 

" Top yeast " is preferred. This is separated from the wort 

1 University of Illinois Bulletin, Vol. 10, No. 25 (March, 1913). 



Texture 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 281 

by skimming, washed with water, freed from impurities by 
washing through sieves or by settling, pressed in bags in hy- 
draulic presses, cut into cakes, wrapped in tin foil, and kept cold 
until distributed for use. 

Such yeast should be used fresh, and when fresh " should 
have a creamy white color, uniform throughout, and should 
possess a fine even texture ; it should be moist without being 
slimy. It should quickly melt in the mouth without an acid 
taste. Its odor is characteristic and should be somewhat sug- 
gestive of the apple. It should never be ' cheesy,' such an 
odor indicating incipient decomposition, as does a dark or 
streaked color " (Leach). 

The addition of starch to yeast before pressing has been com- 
monly practiced and justified on the ground that the starch acts 
as a drier, producing a yeast more easily mixed with the flour, 
besides making the yeast keep better, especially in warm weather. 
Compressed yeast has commonly contained from 5 to 50 per 
cent starch, although 20 per cent has been suggested (Jago) as a 
limit above which the starch should be considered an adulterant. 

Improved methods of manufacture yield a yeast comparatively 
free from slime, capable of being pressed into cakes without 
the use of starch, and recently the Board of Food and Drug 
Inspection has ruled that compressed yeast should not contain 
starch unless so labeled. 

Baking powders are used when it is desired to leaven the dough 
more quickly than it can be done by fermentation. Those in 
common use all depend upon the liberation of carbon dioxide 
by the action of tartaric acid or acid tartrate, acid phosphate, 
or alum upon sodium bicarbonate. 

With tartaric acid the reaction is as follows : 

H2C4H4O6 + 2 NaHCOs -^ Na2C4H406 + 2 CO2 + 2 H2O 
and with cream of tartar (acid potassium tartrate) ; > 
HKC4H4O6 + NaHCOs -> NaKC4H406 + CO2 + H2O 



282 FOOD PRODUCTS 

In phosphate powders the acid component is calcium acid 
phosphate and the reaction is : 

CaH4(P04)2 + 2 NaHCOs 

-> CaHP04 + Na2HP04 + 2 CO2 + H2O 

The calcium acid phosphate is made by acting upon rock 
phosphate (tricalcium phosphate) with sulphuric acid. This 
reaction produces also calcium sulphate which may or may not 
be left in the acid phosphate when the latter is made into baking 
powder. 

Alum powders react in the manner indicated by the following : 

NaAl(S04)2 + 3 NaHCOs -^ 2 Na2S04 + A1(0H)3 + 3 CO2 

Formerly potassium and ammonium alums were used inter- 
changeably according to price; now calcined sodium alum is 
said to be commonly used. 

Mixed baking powders having more than one component which 
reacts with the bicarbonate are sometimes used. Thus with an 
alum and phosphate powder both the prompt action of the acid 
phosphate and the more continued evolution of gas due to the 
slow action of the alum may be obtained. 

A moderate amount of starch or flour in baking powder is 
considered permissible because of its value in keeping the powder 
dry and thus preventing its deterioration. 

Breakfast Cereals 

The great variety of forms in which the grains are prepared as 
breakfast foods and the extravagant claims which have some- 
times been made by the manufacturers have directed so much 
attention to these products that it is now generally understood 
that they resemble closely the staple grain products in composi- 
tion and nutritive value. Further discussion of these products 
seems therefore hardly necessary here. 

For detailed discussion of these products with analyses of 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



283 



the different brands, the reader is referred to the following 
pubKcations : 

Atwater. Digestibility of Cereal Breakfast Foods. Storrs 
(Conn.) Agricultural Experiment Station, i6th Annual Report, 
pages 180-209 (1904). 

Harcourt. Breakfast Foods ; Their Chemical Composition, 
Digestibility and Cost. Journal of the Society of Chemical 
Industry, Vol. 26, pages 240-243, and Ontario Departnient of 
Agriculture, Bulletin 162 (1907). 

Woods and Snyder. Cereal Breakfast Foods. U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 249. 

Composition of Grain and Bakery Products 

The composition of most of the grains and of several of their 
mill products have been given in the preceding sections of this 
chapter. The table which follows contains a compilation of analy- 
ses of raw and cooked grain products, taken chiefly from At- 
water and Bryant and arranged according to their classification: 

Table 2>T- Average Composition of Grain Products (American 

Analyses) 



Description 



FLOUR, MEALS, ETC. 

Barley meal and flour . 
Barley, pearled . . . 
Buckwheat flour . . . 
Buckwheat preparations, 
self-raising .... 
Corn meal, granular 
Pop corn 



Per 

cent 



II.9 
13.6 

11.6 

12. 5 
4-3 



°2 



Per 
cent 



lo.s 
8.5 
6.4 

8.2 

9.2 

10.7 



Per 
cent 



2.2 
I.I 
1.2 

1.2 
1.9 
5-0 



Per 
cent 

72.8 
77.8 
77-9 

73-4 
75-4 
78.7 



g o S^ 

►^ M Z 

V 3 < 



Per 
cent 

{')6.5 
0) -3 
(«) -4 

C) -4 
1.4 



Per 
cent 

2.6 

I.I 

.9 

5-6 
i.'o 

1-3 



Cd. 

1603 
161S 

1577 

1530 
1620 
1826 



284 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 37. Average Composition of Grain Products (American 
Analyses) — Continued 



Description 



FLOUR, meals, etc. 

Com preparations : 

Cerealine 

Hominy 

Hominy, cooked . . . , 
Parched 

Kafir corn 

Oatmeal 

Oatmeal, boiled 

Oatmeal gruel 

Oatmeal water 

Rice 

Rice, boiled 

Rice, flaked 

Rye flour 

Rye meal 

Wheat flour, California fine . 

Wheat flour, entire wheat 

Wheat flour, Graham . . . 

Wheat flour, prepared (self- 
raising) 

Wheat flour, patent roller pro- 
cess, bakers' grade . . 

Wheat flour, patent roller pro-- 
cess, family and straight 
grade 

Wheat flour, patent roller pro- 
cess, grade not indicated 

Wheat flour, patent roller pro- 
cess, high grade . . . 
Average of all analyses of 
high and medium grades 
and grade not indicated . 



en 

I 


i 




% 
fe 


Ml 
m 


1 

t* S S 

Sis 


1 




Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


5 
17 

I 

2 

I 
16 

I 

2 

2 
21 

3 
2 
8 
I 

3' 
9 
13 


10.3 
11.8 
79.3 

5.2 
16.8 

7-3 
84.5 
91.6 
96.0 
12.3 
72.S 

9-5 
12.9 
11.4 
13-8 
11.4 
II-3 


9.6 

8.3 
2.2 

II-5 

6.6 

16.1 

2.8 

1.2 

•7 
8.0 
2.8 

7-9 

6.8 

13.6 

7-9 

13.8 

13-3 


I.I 

.6 

.2 
8.4 
3.8 
7.2 

•5 
•4 
.1 

•3 
.1 

.4 
.9 
2.0 
1.4 
1.9 
2.2 


78.3 
79.0 
17.8 

72.3 
70.6 

67.S 

II-5 
6.3 
2.9 
79.0 
24.4 
81.9 
78.7 
71.5 
76.4 
71.9 
71.4 




.7 

•3 

•5 

2.6 

2.2 

1.9 

•7 

•5 

•3 

•4 

.2 

.3 

•7 

1.5 

•5 

I.O 

1.8 




I.I 






(13) .2 


1.8 


S')i-9 


29 


10.8 


10.2 


1.2 


73-0 


(') -4 


4.8 


14 


11.9 


13-3 


1-5 


72.7 


(«) .7 


.6 


28 


12.8 


10.8 


I.I 


74.8 


(«) .2 


•5 


III 


II-5 


11.4 


I.O 


75.6 


{'') .2 


•5 


57 


12.4 


II. 2 


I.O 


74-9 


n -2 


•5 


210 


12.0 


11.4 


1.0 


75-1 


n -3 


•5 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



285 



Table 37. Average Composition of Grain Products (American 
Analyses) — Continued 



Description 



OS 



l< 






O 1-1 



S H S 



FLOUR, meals, etc. 

Wheat flour, patent roller pro- 
cess, low grade . . . . 
Wheat breakfast foods : ^ 

Cracked and crushed . . 

Farina 

Flaked 

Parched and toasted . . 

Shredded 

Wheat preparations : 

Macaroni 

Noodles 

Spaghetti 

Vermicelli 



BREAD, CRACKERS, PASTRY, ETC. 

Bread, corn (johnnycakc) . 

Bread, rye 

Bread, rye and wheat . . 

Bread, etc., wheat: 

Buns, cinnamon, as pur 

chased 

Buns, currant, as purchased 
Buns, hot cross, as purchased 
Buns, sugar, as purchased 
Graham bread, as purchased 
Biscuit, homemade, as pur- 
chased 



Per 
cent 



lO.l 

10.9 

8.7 

8.6 

8.1 

10.3 
10.7 
10.6 

II.O 



38.9 
35-7 
35-3 



23.6 
27.S 
36.7 
29.6 

35-7 
32.9 



Per 
cent 



14.0 

II. I 
II.O 

13-4 
13.6 
10.5 

134 
II. 7 
12. 1 
10.9 



7-9 

9.0 

11.9 



9.4 

6.7 

7-9 
8.1 
8.9 

8.7 



Per 

cent 



1.9 

1-7 
1.4 
1.4 
2.4 
1.4 

.9 
i.o 

.4 
2.0 



Per 

cent 



71.2 

75-5 
76.3 
74-3 
74-5 
77-9 

74.1 
75.6 
76.3 
72.0 



Per 

cent 



C) -8 

1.8. 

.8 

{')i-7 



4-7 


46.3 


.6 


53-2 


•3 


51.5 


7.2 


59.1 


7.6 


57.6 


4.8 


49-7 


6.9 


54.2 


1.8 


52.1 


2.6 


55-3 



e) 



'4 



(«) .5 



C) .J 

(u)i.r 

e)..7 



Per 

cent 



.7 1537 



1 The different groups of wheat breakfast foods contain various brands, which 
have been arranged as far as possible according to similarity in method of prepara- 
tion. The varieties under each group differ only slightly from the average in per- 
centage composition. 



286 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 37. Average Composition of Grain Products (American 
Analyses) — Continued 



Description 



bread, crackers, pastry, etc 
Biscuit, Maryland, as pur- 
chased 

Rolls, French, as purchased 
Rolls, plain, as purchased . 
Rolls, Vienna, as purchased 
Rolls, water, as purchased 
Rolls, all analyses, as pur- 
chased 

Toasted bread, as purchased 
White bread, cheap grade . 
White bread, homemade 
White bread, milk, as pur- 
chased 

White bread, New England, 
as purchased .... 
White bread, Quaker, as pur- 
chased 

White bread, Vienna, as pur- 
chased 

White bread, all analyses, as 
purchased, average ^ . . 



P 
1^ 


g 
% 
^ 


2'? 

Wo 

oX 

^5, 




it 
"J 


1^ 
Sq2 






Per 

cent 


Per 
cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 

cent 


Per 
cent 


Per 

cent 


2 


24.6 


8.4 


5.6 


60.1 


1-3 


1-3 


2 


32.0 


8.5 


2-5 


55-7 


.6 


1-3 


5 

I 


25.2 
31-7 

32.6 


9-7 
S.5 


4.2 
2.2 


59-9 
56.5 


n -3 
•4 


I.O 

I.I 




9.0 


3-^ 


54-2 






20 
5 


29.2 


8.9 
II-5 


4.1 

1.6 


56.7 
61.2 


n ^6 


I.I 

1.7 






6 


33-2 


10.9 


1-3 


53.6 




1.0 


3« 


35.0 


9.1 


1.6 


53-3 


(==) .2 


1.0 


8 


36.5 


9.6 


1.4 


5I-I 




1.4 




7 


36.6 


9.1 


1.2 


52.1 




1.0 




4 


35.8 


8.3 


I.I 


53-7 


e) .3 


I.I 


25 


34-2 


9.4 


1.2 


54.1 


e) .5 


I.I 


198 


35-3 


9.2 


1-3 


53.1 


n -5 


I.I 






Cal. 

1470 
1267 

143s 
1270 
1268 

1357 
1385 
1224 
II98 

I160 

1 160 

1 1 70 

1200 

I182 



1 Analyses of similar bread made from different grades of flour, from high to low grade : 




Water 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Car- 
bohy- 
drates 


Fiber 


Ash 


Fuel 
Value 

PER 

Pound 


White bread from high-grade patent 

flour 

White bread from regular patent flour 
White bread from baker's flour . . 
White bread from low-grade flour . . 


Per 

cent 

32.9 
34-1 
391 
40.7 


Per 

cent 

8.7 

9.0 

10.6 

12.6 


Per 

cent 

1.4 
1-3 
1.2 
I.I 


Per 
cent 

S6.5 
54-9 
48.3 
44-3 


Per 
cent 


Per 
cent 

o.S 
•7 
•9 

1-3 


Cal. 

1235 
1212 
1117 
1078 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



287 



Table 37. Average Composition of Grain Products (American 
Analyses) — Continued 



Description 



bread, crackers, pastry, etc, 

Whole wheat bread, as pur- 
chased 

Zwieback, as purchased 
Crackers, Boston (split) crack- 
ers, as purchased . . . 

Butter crackers . , . . 

Cream crackers . . . . 

Egg crackers 

Flatbread . . . .^ . 

Graham crackers . . . . 

Oatmeal crackers 

Oyster crackers . . . . 

Pilot bread 

Pretzels 

Saltines 

Soda crackers 

Water crackers . . . . 

All analyses 

Cake : 

Coffee cake 

Cup cake 

Frosted cake 

Fruit cake 

Gingerbread 

Sponge cake 

All analyses, except fruit . 

Cookies 

Doughnuts 

Fig biscuits or bars . . . . 
Ginger snaps ...... 

Lady fingers 

Macaroons 



Per 
cent 



38.4 
5.8 

7-5 
7.2 
6.8 
5-8 
9.8 
5-4 
6.3 
4.8 

8.7 
9.6 
5-6 
5-9 
6.4 
6.8 

21.3 
15.6 
18.2 

17-3 
18.8 

15-3 
19.9 
8.1 
18.3 
17.9 

6.3 
15.0 
12.3 






Per 
cent 



9.7 
9.8 

II. o 

9.6 

9-7 
12.6 
14.9 

1 0.0 
11.8 

II-3 

11. 1 

9-7 
10.6 

9.8 
II. 7 
10.7 

7.1 
5-9 
5-9 
5-9 
5.8 
6.3 
6.3 
7.0 
6.7 
4.6 

6.5 
8.8 

6.5 



Per 
cent 



•9 
9.9 

8.5 
lO.I 
12. 1 
14.0 

•5 

9-4 

II. I 

10.5 

5-0 

3-9 

12.7 

9.1 

5-0 



7-5 
9.0 
9.0 

10.9 
9.0 

10.7 
9.0 

9-7 
21.0 
6.6 
8.6 
5-0 
15.2 



Per 
cent 



49-7 
73-5 

71.1 
71.6 
69.7 
66.6 
73-6 
73.8 
69.0 

70.5 
74.2 
72.8 
68.5 
73-1 
75-7 
71.9 

63.2 
68.5 
64.8 
64.1 
63-5 
65-9 
63-3 
73-7 
53-1 
69.8 
76.0 
70.6 
65.2 



m 



Per 
cent 



(O1.2 



(^)i.p 



(0 

(45) 



(0 -9 



{') -4 

-5 

{') -7 

1-7 
{') .7 
(2) .2 

I.I 



Per 
cent 



1.3 
I.O 

1.9 

i-S 
1-7 
1.0 
1.2 
1.4 
1.8 
2.9 
1.0 
4.0 
2.6 
2.1 
1.2 
1.8 

•9 
1.0 
2.1 
1.8 
2.9 
1.8 
1-5 
i-S 

.9 
I.I 
2.6 

-.6 



288 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 37. Average Composition of Grain Products (American 
Analyses) — Continued 



Description 






bread, crackers , PASTRY, ETC 

Pie, apple . 
Pie, cream 
Pie, custard 
Pie, lemon . 
Pie, mince . 
Pie, raisin . 
Pie, squash 
Pudding, Indian meal 
Pudding, rice custard 
Pudding, tapioca 
Wafers, miscellaneous 
Wafers, vanilla . . 



Per 

cent 

42.5 
32.0 
62.4 
47.4 
41-3 
37-0 
64.2 
60.7 
59-4 
64.5 
6.6 
6.7 



ox 



Per 

cent 

3-1 
4.4 
4.2 
3.6 
5.8 
3-0 
4.4 
5-5 
4.0 

3-3 
8.7 
6.6 



< < O 
H rt z 



Per 

cent 

9.8 
II.4 

6.3 
lO.I 

12.3 

II-3 
8.4 
4.8 
4.6 
3-2 
8.6 

14.0 



Per 

cent 

42.8 
51.2 
26.1 
37-4 
38.1 
47.2 
21.7 
27-5 
31-4 
28.2 

74.5 
71.6 



O M 



:^?w 



Per 

cent 



{') 



Per 
cent 

1.8 
I.O 
I.O 

1-5 

2-5 

i-S 
1-3 
1-5 
.6 
.8 
1.6 
I.I 



< 5 
> o 



Cals. 

1233 

1465 

800 

1157 
1298 

1373 
817 
795 
830 
702 
i860 
1990 



Nutritive Value of Grain Products and their Economy as Food 

The quantitative composition of the grains and of the chief 
food products made from them has already been given. The 
grains themselves, their chief mill products, and the dry cereal 
preparations made from them show considerable similarity 
in the general features of their chemical composition, and they 
vary but Uttle from an average fuel value of about 1650 Calories 
per pound. The loo-Calorie portion of all these (dry) products 
is very nearly one ounce (varying only from 25 grams for oatmeal 
to 29 grams for rice). The cooked products naturally show 
greater differences, chiefly because of the presence of added water 
or fat. 

The chemical nature and nutritive value of the carbohydrates 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



289 



(chiefly starch in all of the grains) and of the fat do not offer 
any problem requiring further discussion. 

The chemical structure of the proteins of the cereal grains 
has been investigated with great thoroughness by Osborne 
from whose results are taken the percentages of amino acids 
obtained on hydrolysis of these proteins as shown in Table 38. 



Table 38. Amino Acids from Proteins of Grain Products (Osborne) 




HON- 




Glu- 


Pro- 


Glia- 


Glu- 


Leu- 


Edes- 




DEIN 


(Corn) 


TELIN 


LAMIN 


DIN 


tenin 


COSIN 


TINl 




(Barley) 


(Corn; 


(Rye) 


(Wheat; 


(Wheat) 


(Wheat) 


(Hemp) 


Glycin . . . 








0.25 


0.13 





0.89 


0.94 


3.80 


Alanin . . . 


0.43 


Q-79 


? 


1-33 


2.00 


4-65 


4-45 


3-60 


Valin . . . 


0.13 


1.88 


? 




3-34 


0.24 


0.18 


6.20 


Leucin . . . 


5-67 


1955 


6.22 


6.30 


6.62 


5-95 


11-34 


14.50 


Prolin . . . 


13-73 


9.04 


4-99 


9.82 


13-22 


4-23 


3-18 


1.70 


Phenylalanin . 


5-03 


6.5S 


1.74 


2.70 


2-35 


1-97 


3-83 


2.40 


Aspartic acid . 


? 


1-71 


0.63 


0.2s 


0.58 


o.9r 


3-35 


450 


Glutamic acid . 


43- 20 


26.17 


12.72 


38-05 


43-66 


23-42 


6-73 


14-50 


Serin .... 


? 


1.02 


? 


0.06 


0.13 


0.74 




0.33 


Tyrosin . . . 


1.67 


3-55 


3-78 


1. 19 


1.20 


4-25 


3-34 


2.13 


Cystin . . . 


I.OO 








0.45 


0.02 




I.OO 


Lysin . . . 








2-93 




0.15 


1.92 


2.75 


1.65 


Histidin . . 


1.28 


0.82 


3.00 


0.39 


0.61 


1.76 


2.83 


2.19 


Arginin . . . 


2.16 


1-55 


7.06 


2.22 


3-16 


4.72 


5-94 


14.17 


Ammonia . . 


4.84 


3.64 


2.12 


5-II 


5-22 


4.01 


1. 41 


2.28 


Tryptophan 


Present 


Absent 


Present 


Present 


Present 


Present 


Present 


Present 


Summation . . 


78.17 


85-27 


45-44 


67-55 


82.69 


59-68 


50-32 


76.9s 



1 Edestin occurs also in wheat. 

That glycin is absent in some cases is, as has been seen in 
earlier chapters, a matter of no consequence so far as food value 
is concerned. When, however, we find little or no lysin as in 
gliadin, hordein, and zein, or find tryptophan absent as in zein, 
we are confronted with a deficiency which we are not sure that 
the animal body can supply, and serious doubt is thrown upon 
the adequacy of such a protein as food. 

Osborne and Mendel have used these proteins largely in 
their feeding experiments with isolated food substances and 
have found: (i) that when zein (lacking tryptophan) is the 



290 FOOD PRODUCTS 

only protein of the diet, it does not suffice for the needs either 
of a growing or a full-grown animal ; (2) that when hordein or 
gliadin (containing tryptophan but little or no lysin) is the 
sole protein fed, full-grown animals can be maintained, but young 
animals cannot grow. 

That these deficiencies in food value are actually due to the 
lack of the amino acids named has been shown by experiments 
in which the simple addition of the amino acid to the dietary 
was found to correct the deficiency. 

This successful correlation of the chemical structure and nutri- 
tive function of the proteins is an accomplishment of the greatest 
importance to the scientific development of food chemistry. 

It does not follow, however, from the fact that gliadin, hordein, 
or zein is inadequate as a sole protein food, that wheat, barley, 
maize, or their mill products would be correspondingly inade- 
quate even if fed alone. Each of these grains (and of the staple 
mill products made from them) contains a mixture of proteins 
and the other proteins with which ghadin, hordein, and zein are 
always mixed in wheat, barley, and maize, do not show these 
same peculiarities of chemical structure, so that we have no 
reason to fear that either lysin or tryptophan would ever be 
wholly lacking in any staple food product made from grain. 
Thus glutenin, which is always present in wheat flour, has been 
shown to be adequate for both maintenance and growth even 
when it was the only protein in the diet. It is, however, only 
reasonable to expect that the mixture of proteins found in corn 
meal or even wheat flour will be of somewhat less value in nutri- 
tion than an equal weight of the mixture of proteins which we 
find in milk, eggs, or meat. Experimental observations confirm 
this inference and indicate that when bread is the sole source of 
protein in the diet, a larger amount of protein is required for 
equilibrium than when milk or meat is eaten. 

Fortunately the proteins of milk (page 72) are relatively rich 
in those amino-acid radicles in which the grains are poor. Os- 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



291 



borne and Mendel have found that their animals are not only 
maintained in health and vigor, but also make a normal rate 
of growth when three fourths of their protein is zein and one 
fourth is lactalbumin. If bread be made with skimmed milk 
instead of water, or if breakfast cereal or even corn meal mush 
be eaten with cream or milk, it is possible that the protein of 
the combination may have fully as high a value in nutrition as 
the average protein of ordinary mixed diet. 

The digestibility of the grain proteins when fed free is prob- 
ably not inferior to that of animal protein. It is evidently very 
largely because of the associated substances such as cell walls 
which still enclose the grain proteins to a certain extent in ordi- 
nary mill products, that the coefficient of digestibiHty of the 
protein of bread for example is lower than that of average mixed 
diet. Partly for the same and partly for other reasons, it was 
anticipated that the coefficient of digestibility of whole grain 
products might be somewhat lower than that of the finer prod- 
ucts representing only the inner portion of the kernel. 

This question was of particular interest as affecting the com- 
parative food values of patent, " entire wheat," and Graham 
flours and the breads made from them. The average results 
of a long series of digestion experiments carried out under the 
auspices of the United States Department of Agriculture were 
as follows : 





Coefficient of Digestibility of 




Protein 


Carbohydrate 


Standard patent flour 

" Entire wheat " flour 

Graham flour 


Per cent 
88.6 
82.0 
74-9 


Per cent 
97-7 
93-5 
89.2 



The lower coefficients of digestibiHty of the " entire wheat " 
and Graham flours almost exactly offset their higher protein 



292 FOOD PRODUCTS 

contents, so that it may be said that the amount of protein 
digested and absorbed from a pound of one of these or from a 
pound of patent flour is practically the same. The amount of 
available energy is also about the same in either case. However, 
as Woods and Merrill have pointed out, it does not follow that 
a larger amount of digestible nutrients may not be obtained 
from a given amount of wheat when milled as Graham flour or as 
entire wheat flour than when ground for patent flour, because 
I GO pounds of cleaned and screened wheat will yield loo pounds 
of Graham flour, or about 85 pounds of " entire wheat " flour, 
but only about 72 pounds of patent flour. It follows that if 
milled on an equally large scale, i.e. if there were an equally 
large' demand, Graham and " entire wheat " flours could be sold 
at a lower price than patent flour, but at present they usually 
cost as much, or in some cases even more. 

Regarding the coarser and finer flours simply as sources of 
protein and energy, they are so nearly equal both in digestible 
nutrients and (at present, to the individual consumer) in pecu- 
niary economy ^ that they may be regarded as substantially 
equivalent and interchangeable. They are, however, quite 
different in the ash constituents which they contain and some- 
what different in their effect upon .the digestive tract. 

The coarser wheat products stimulate peristalsis more than 
do the fine flour products, an effect which is desirable in some 
persons and undesirable in others. This property of the whole 
wheat products is often attributed to mechanical irritation, but 
cannot be due entirely to this, because " bran mash " is used as 
a laxative with horses whose other food (hay, for example) 
would certainly furnish more mechanical stimulation than the 
bran. The wheat kernel contains two distinct substances re- 
ported as having laxative effects which are largely rejected in 
the preparation of fine flour. These are the oil of the germ and 

1 This, of course, does not apply to certain proprietary "whole wheat" products 
sold at very high prices. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



293 



the phytin (one of the phosphorus compounds) which is especially 
abundant in the bran. It is probable that in man the stimu- 
lation of peristalsis by whole wheat products is due in part to 
direct mild laxative action by one or both of these constituents, 
and in part also to the mechanical effect of the fibrous particles. 

The ash constituents of the grains are largely concentrated in 
the germs and outer layers. This has been pointed out with 
respect to barley, maize, and rice earlier in the chapter. We 
shall therefore consider wheat chiefly at this point. Bran yields 
10 to 20 times as much ash as patent flour. Comparing the 
patent flour with the whole wheat, the discrepancy is still large, 
the wheat containing 3 to 5 times as much of iron, of phosphorus, 
of calcium, or of total ash as the fine flour made from it. Thus 
three fourths of the ash constituents of the wheat kernel are 
lost to man in the process of manufacturing the wheat into 
white flour. Doubtless the loss in digestion is somewhat greater 
for the coarser than for the finer products in the case of the ash 
constituents as of the proteins, but there is no reason to suppose 
that the loss in digestion would in any case approach the loss 
involved in the ordinary milling process. The body probably 
absorbs from a pound of genuine whole wheat bread at least 
twice as much phosphorus, iron, and calcium compounds as 
from a pound of white bread. No adequate experiments upon 
this point appear to have been made with man,^ but Bunge ^ 
has tested the value of the ash constituents of the bran for 
growing rats. 

Eight young rats of the same litter and approximately the 
same size at the beginning of the experiment were divided into 
two groups of four each. One group was fed on white bread which 
contained 0.0015 P^^ cent Fe, 0.045 P^r cent CaO, and 0.28 

1 The ordinary digestion experiments taken alone are useless if not positively 
misleading for this purpose because of the excretion in the feces of ash constituents 
which have been absorbed and utilized in the body. 

^ Zeitschrift filr physiologische Chemie,Wo\. 2$, page 36 (1898). 



294 FOOD PRODUCTS 

per cent P2O5; the other group on whole wheat bread which 
contained 0.0055 P^^" cent Fe, 0.077 per cent CaO, and 0.90 
per cent P2O5. The rats receiving the whole wheat bread 
grew much better than those fed on white bread, and were 
found to contain at the end of the experiment both a larger 
amount and a higher percentage of haemoglobin. It was clear 
that the ash constituents of the outer layers of the grain were 
utilized for the production of bone, muscle, and blood, and that 
the rats receiving the whole wheat bread were much better 
nourished than those which were fed on white bread, though all 
had appeared equally well nourished at the beginning of the 
experiment. 

In view of recent studies on rice and beriberi (page 267 and 
references at the end of this chapter) the probable effect upon 
the '' vitamine " content of rejecting all but the white interior 
portion of the grain naturally suggests itself as a subject possibly 
worthy of consideration. 

Some writers and teachers treat the losses incurred in the 
ordinary milling processes as a matter of indifference or even 
object to any serious discussion of the problem, calling it a 
" fad " on the ground that with the mixed dietary prevalent 
in the United States there is no danger of the " deficiency 
diseases " from any mode of milling the grains. This is probably 
true as regards the pronounced diseases such as beriberi, but 
it is also true that many American family dietaries show little 
margin of safety as regards iron, phosphorus, and calcium,^ 
which makes it only reasonable that we should wish to include 
in the products used for human food as much as is practicable 
of those parts of the grain which are rich in these elements. 
Moreover, one should not overlook the great wastefulness of 
making from 100 pounds of wheat only 70 to 75 pounds of white 
flour when the same wheat will yield 85 to 95 pounds of flour 

1 Bulletins 185 and 227, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of 
Agricvilture. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



295 



practically equal pound for pound if the ash constituents 
be ignored, and more than equal if these constituents be 
considered. 

Pecuniary economy. The grain products, including flour, 
bread, corn meal, and oatmeal, constitute the most economical 
of the general groups of foods. 

A pound of bread or 12 ounces of flour, corn meal, or oatmeal 
is equal in fuel value to 5 or 6 ounces of butter or fat bacon, i to 
2 pounds steak, 2 to 3 pounds halibut or other lean fish. 

In an extended series of dietary studies made at the State 
University of Maine, the grain products while costing only 
17 per cent of the total expenditure for -food furnished 40 per 
cent of the fuel value, 25 per cent of the protein, and 18 per cent 
of the phosphorus compounds. 

As a rule a free use of bread and other grain products makes 
for both an economical and a well-balanced dietary. 

REFERENCES 

I 

Amos. Processes of Flour Manufacture. 

Grant. The Chemistry of Breadmaking. 

Hunt. The Cereals in America. 

Jagg. The Technology of Breadmaking. 

Klotz. Die Bedeutung der Getreidemehle fiir die Ernahrung. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

OsBGRNE. The Proteins of the Wheat Kernel. 

SiMMGNS. Book of Bread. 

Snyder. Studies in Bread and Breadmaking. Bulletins 67, loi, and 126 

of the Office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of 

Agriculture. 
Wiley. Cereals and Cereal Products. Part 9 of Bulletin 13 of the Bureau 

of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture. 
Wiley. Analyses of Cereals Collected at the World's Columbia Exposition. 

Bulletin 45 of the Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department 

of Agriculture, 
WiNTON. The Microscopy of Vegetable Foods. 



296 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Woods and Merrill. The Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Bread. 
Bulletins 85 and 143 of the Office of Experiment Stations, United States 
Department of Agriculture. 

II 

Barley and Malt 

Osborne. The Chemical Nature of Diastase. Journal of the American 

Chemical Society, Vol. 17, pages 587-603 (1895); Vol. 18, pages 536- 

542 (1896). 
Osborne and Campbell. The Proteins of Malt. Journal of the American 

Chemical Society, Vol. 18, pages 542-558 (1896). 
LeClerc and Wahl. Chemical Studies of American Barleys and Malts. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 

124 (1909). 
Smith. The Sulphur Bleaching of Commercial Oats and Barley. United 

States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry, Circular 

74 (iQii)- 
Mendel and Fine. Utilization of the Proteins of Barley. Journal of 

Biological Chemistry, Vol. 10, pages 339-343 (iQn)- 
Sherman and Schlesinger. Experiments upon the Purification of the 

Amylase of Malt. Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 35, 

pages 1617-1623 (1913). 
Sherman and Gettler. The Forms of Nitrogen in Amylase Preparations 

from the Pancreas and from Malt as shown by the Van Slyke Method. 

Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 35, pages 1 790-1794 

(1913)- 

Corn or Maize 

Osborne. Amounts and Properties of the Proteins of the Maize Kernel. 
Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 19, pages 525-532 (1897). 

Hopkins, Smith, and East. Breeding Corn. Illinois Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 100 (1905). 

Merrill. Indian Corn as Food for Man. Maine Agricultural Experiment 
Station, Bulletin 131, pages 133-145 (1906). 

Hanusek. Maize Studies. Archiv fiir Chemie und Mikroskopie, Vol. 4, 
pages 213-224 (1911). 

Mendel and Fine. The Utilization of the Proteins of Corn. Journal of 
Biological Chemistry, Vol. 10, pages 345-352 (1911)- 

Dunnington. The Grinding of Corn Meal for Bread. Original Communi- 
cations, 8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 
119-127 (1912). 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 297 

Smith. Breeding Maize for Industrial Purposes. Original Communica- 
tions, 8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 13, pages 

261-264 (1912). 
Alsberg and Black. Contributions to the Study of Maize Deterioration, 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry, 

Bulletin 270 (1913). 
Osborne. The Nutritive Value of the Proteins of Maize. Science, Vol. 

37, pages 185-191 (Jan. 31, 1913). 
Rammstedt. Composition and Digestibility of Corn Meal Products. 

Archiv fiir Hygiene, Vol. 81, pages 286-306 (1913). 
DuvALL and Duvall. Shrinkage of Shelled Corn while in Cars in Transit. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 48, pages 1-2 1 (1914). 
Funk. Influence of the Milling of Maize on the Chemical and Nutritive 

Value of Maize Meal. Journal of Physiology, Vol. 47, pages 389-392 

(1914). 
Lang WORTHY and Hunt. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 565 (1914). 
Osborne and Mendel. Nutritive Properties of Proteins of the Maize 

Kernel. Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 1-16 (1914). 

Oats and Oatmeal 

Watson. Oatmeal in the Dietary of Children. British Medical Journal 
for 1907, pages 985-986. 

Hunt. The Effects of a Restricted Diet and of Various Diets upon Resist- 
ance of Animals to Certain Poisons. Hygienic Laboratory of the 
United States Public Health Service, Bulletin 69 (19 10). 

SaiiTH. The Sulphur Bleaching of Commercial Oats and Barley. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry, Circular 

74 (1911). 
Trier. Phosphatids of Oatmeal. Zeitschrift fiir physiologische Chemie, 
Vol. 86, pages 153-173 (1914)- 

Rice and Beriberi 

Fletcher. Rice and Beri-beri. Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 

Vol. 12, pages 127-134 (1909). 
Aron et al. (Phosphorus Metabolism and Beri-beri.) Philippine Journal 

of Science, Series B, Vol. 5, pages 55-144 (19 10). 
Kajiura and Rosenheim. Contribution to the Etiology of Beri-beri 

Journal of Hygiene, Vol. 10, pages 49-55 (iQio)- 



298 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Aron and Hocson. Rice as a Food. Nitrogen and Phosphorus Metab- 
olism with Rice and Other Foods. Biochemische Zeitschrift, Vol. 32, 
pages 189-203 (191 1). 

Chamberlain. The Eradication of Beri-beri from the Philippine (Native) 
Scouts by Means of a Simple Change in their Dietary. Philippine 
Journal of Science, Series B, Vol. 6, pages 133-146 (191 1). 

Greig. Rice in Relation to Beri-beri. Scientific Memoirs of the Medical 
and Sanitary Departments, India, New Series, No. 45, pages 1-43 (191 1). 

Simpson and Edie. Relation of the Organic Phosphorus Content of Various 
Diets to Diseases of Nutrition, particularly Beri-beri. Annals of Tropi- 
cal Medicine and Parisitology, Vol. 5, pages 313-345 (iQn)- 

Breaudat and Denier. Use of Rice Bran in the Prevention and Cure of 
Beri-beri. Annales de ITnstitut Pasteur, Vol. 25, pages 167-189 (191 1- 
1912). 

Funk, Chemical Nature of the Substance which cures Polyneuritis in 
Birds Induced by a Diet of Polished Rice. Journal of Physiology, Vol. 
43, pages 395-400 (191 2). 

Chamberlain and Vedder. (Rice Bran Extracts in Relation to Cure of 
Beri-beri.) Philippine Journal of Science, Series B, Vol. 6, pages 251- 
258 (1912). 

Chamberlain and Vedder. Second Contribution to the Etiology of Beri- 
beri. Philippine Journal of Science, Series B, Vol. 6, pages 395-404 
(1912). 

Chamberlain, Vedder, and Williams. Third Communication on the Eti- 
ology of Beri-beri. Philippine Journal of Science, Series B, Vol. 7, pages 
39-52 (1912). 

Cushman and Fuller. A Chemical Investigation of Asiatic Rice. Original 
Communications, 8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 
18, pages 73-81 (191 2). 

Funk. Effect of a Diet of Polished Rice on the Nitrogen and Phosphorus 
of the Brain. Journal of Physiology, Vol. 44, pages 50-53 (191 2). 

Funk. Substance from Yeast and Certain Foodstuffs which prevents 
Polyneuritis. British Medical Journal, 191 2, II, page 787 (191 2). 

Kajiura. The Proteins of Rice. Biochemical Journal, Vol. 6, pages 171- 
181 (1912). 

Suzuki, Shamimura, and Odake. Oryzanine, a Component of Rice Bran 
and its Physiological Significance. Biochemische Zeitschrift, Vol. 43, 
pages 89-153 (191 2). 

Schaumann. Preparation and Mode of Action of a Substance in Rice Hulls 
which is Active in Experimental Polyneuritis. Archiv Schiffs und 
Tropen Hygiene, Vol. 16, pages 349-361 (191 2). 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 299 

Funk. Chemistry of the Vitamine Fraction from Yeast and Rice Polishings. 

Journal of Physiology, Vol. 46, pages 173-179 (1913). 
Vedder and Williams. Concerning the Beri-beri preventing Substances or 

Vitamines Contained in Rice Polishings. Philippine Journal of Science, 

Series B, Vol. 8, pages 175-195 (1913). 
Cooper, Protective and Curative Properties of Certain Foodstuffs against 

Polyneuritis induced by Diet of Pbhshed Rice. Journal of Hygiene, 

Vol. 14, pages 12-22 (1914). 
Funk. Is Polished Rice plus Vitamine a Complete Food? Journal of 

Physiology, Vol. 48, pages 228-232 (1914). 

Wheat, Flour, and Bread 
Osborne and Voorhees. The Proteins of Wheat. Journal of the American 

Chemical Society, Vol. 16, pages 524-535 (1894). 
Guess. The Gluten Constituents of Wheat and Flour and Their Relation 

to Breadmaking Qualities. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 

Vol. 22, pages 263-268 (1900). 
Snyder and Woods. Wheat Flour and Bread. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1903, pages 347-362. 
Brahm. Flour Bleached by Ozone. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nah- 

rungs und Genussmittel, Vol. 8, pages 669-673 (1904). 
Snyder. Wheat and Flour Investigations. Minnesota Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 85 (1904). 
Carleton and Chamberlain. Commercial Status of Durum Wheat. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry, 

Bulletin 70 (1905). 
Harper and Peter. Protein Content of the Wheat Kernel. Kentucky 

Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 113 (1905). 
Snyder. Studies on the Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Bread and 

Macaroni. United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experi- 
ment Stations, Bulletin 156 (1905). 
Humphries. Modern Developments of Flour Milling. Journal of the 

Society of Arts, Vol. 55, pages 109-126 (1906-1907). 
Ladd and Stallings. Bleaching of Flour. North Dakota Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 72, pages 219-235 (1906-1907). 
Norton. Crude Gluten. Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 

28, pages 8-25 (1906). 
Alway. Effect of Bleaching upon the Quality of Wheat Flour. Nebraska 

Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 102, pages 1-56 (1907'), 
Avery. The Bleaching of Flour. Journal of the American Chemical 

Society, Vol. 29, pages 571-574 (iQo?)- 



300 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Alway and Pickney, The Effect of Nitrogen Peroxide upon Wheat Flour. 

Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 30, pages 81-85 

(1908). 
Baker and Hulton. Considerations Affecting the Strength of Flours. 

Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, Vol. 27, pages 368-376 

(1908). 
Ladd and Bassett. Bleaching of Flour. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 

Vol. 6, pages 75-86 (1909). 
Snyder. Flour Bleaching. Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station, 

Bulletin in, pages 101-143 (iQOQ)- 
Wesener and Teller. Flour Bleaching, its Relation to Bread Production 

and Nutrition. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 

I, pages 700-711 (1909). 
Wood and Hardy. Physical State of Gluten. Proceedings of the Royal 

Society of London, Series B, Vol. 81, pages 38-43 (1909). 
Atwater (H. W.). Bread and Breadmaking. United States Department 

of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 389 (1910). 
Hale. The Bleaching of Flour and the Effect of Nitrites upon Certain 

Medicinal Substances. United States Public Health Service, Hygienic 

Laboratory, Bulletin 68 (1910). 
Harcourt and Purdy. Flour and Breadmaking. Ontario Agricultural 

College, Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 180 (1910). 
Rockwood. Effects of Bleaching upon the Digestibility of Wheat Flour. 

Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 8, pages 327-340 (1910). 
Wardall. Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread. Journal of Home 

Economics, Vol. 2, pages 75-91 (1910). 
WiLLARD. Changes in Weight of Stored Flour. Kansas State Board of 

Health, Vol. 7, pages 9-14 (1910-1911). 
Hill. Nutritive Value of White and Standard Bread. British Medical 

Journal, 1911, No. 2627, pages 1068-1069; (discussion) No. 2628, page 

1151 (1911)- 
Humphreys. Wheat Flour. Chemical News, Vol. 104, page 117 (1911). 
Ladd and Bailey. Wheat Investigations ; Milling, Baking and Chemical 

Tests. North Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 89 

(1911). 
Mendel and Fine. The Utilization of the Proteins of Wheat. Journal of 

Biological Chemistry, Vol. 10, pages 303-325 (1911). 
Shaw and Gaumnitz. California White Wheats. California Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 212 (191 1). 
Thatcher, Olson, and Hadlock. Wheat and Flour Investigations. Wash- 
ington Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 100 (191 1). 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 301 

Osborne and Mendel. The R61e of Gliadin in Nutrition. Journal of 
Biological Chemistry, Vol. 12, pages 473-510 (1912). 

Teller. The Carbohydrates of Wheat and Wheat Products and Changes 
in the Same during Development of the Grain. Original Communica- 
tions, 8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 13, pages 
273-278(1912). 

Wesener and Teller. Aging of Flour and its Effect on Digestion. Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 912-919 (1911). 

United States Department of Agriculture. Bleached Flour. Notice of 
Judgment 722. Office of the Secretary. 

Dean and Swanson. Effect of Common Mill Fumigants (Hydrocyanic 
Acid and Carbon Bisulphide) on the Baking Qualities of Wheat Flour. 
Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 178, pages 155-207 
(1911-1912). 

WiLLARD and Swanson. Milling Tests of Wheat and Baking Tests of Flour. 
Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 177 (1911-1912). 

KoHMAN. Salt-rising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread Made with 
Yeast. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 4, 
pages 20-30, 100-106 (191 2). 

New AN et al. Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of White 
and Wholemeal Breads. Journal of Hygiene, Vol. 12, pages 1 19-143 
(1912). 

Snyder. Wheat Flour. Original Communications, 8th International 
Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 323-328 (191 2). 

Stewart and Hirst. Comparative Value of Irrigated and Dry Farming 
Wheat for Flour Production. Journal of Industrial and Engineering 
Chemistry, Vol. 4, pages 270-272 (191 2). 

Swanson. Acidity in Flour ; its Relation to Phosphorus and Other Con- 
stituents. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 4, 
pages 274-275 (191 2). 

WiLLARD and Swanson. Baking Qualities of Flour as influenced by Certain 
Chemical Substances, etc. Transactions of the Kansas Academy of 
Science, Vol. 23-24, pages 201-207 ; Chemical News, Vol. 105, pages 97- 
99(1912). 

Bailey. Minnesota Wheat Investigations. I. MiUing, Baking and Chemi- 
cal Tests. Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 131 

(1913) 

Power and Solway. Chemical Examination of Wheat Germ. Pharma- 
ceutical Journal, Vol. 91, pages 117-120, 176 (1913)- 

Street. Diabetic Foods. Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station 
Report, Section i, Part i, pages 1-95 (1913)- 



302 FOOD PRODUCTS 

SwANSON. Chemical Composition of Wheats compared with Resultant 
Flours. American Miller, Vol. 41, pages 218-222 (1913). 

White. Influence of Bran Extracts on the Baking Qualities of Flour. 
Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 5, pages 990-993 

(1913)- 
LeClerc and Jacobs. Graham Flour. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 164 (1913). 
LeClerc and Yoder. Environmental Influences on the Physical and 

Chemical Characteristics of Wheat. Journal of Agricultural Research, 

Vol. I, pages 275-291 (1914)- 
McCoRMACK. Milling of Wheat and the Testing of Flour. Journal of 

Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 6, pages 423-428 (1914). 
WiLLARD and SwANSON. Influence of Certain Substances upon the Baking 

Qualities of Flour. Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

190, pages 237-285 (1914). 



i 



< 



I 



CHAPTER IX 

VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 

Since it* is difficult to draw any logical lin^ of demarcation 
between vegetables, fruits, and nuts, because of the many im- 
portant characteristics common to articles belonging to more 
than one of these categories, they will here be discussed in one 
chapter. The descriptive matter relating to these food mate- 
rials will be taken up first; and the more critical discussion 
of the group as a whole, its nutritive importance and place in 
the diet, will follow. 

Vegetables 

According to Langworthy, vegetables furnish 8.7 per cent of 
the protein, i.o per cent of the fat, and 12.0 per cent of the carbo- 
hydrate of the average American dietary. The Census Reports 
show $450,000,000 worth of vegetables grown in the United 
States in 1909. The actual value was probably greater, since 
this figure is based on returns which were probably not entirely 
complete; and on the values at the farm rather than in the market. 
Vegetables are therefore an important factor in the food supply 
and are likely to play an increasingly prominent part as their 
importance as food becomes better understood, and as agri- 
culture becomes more intensified. 

Of the food materials commonly known as vegetables, some 
are_seeds, some_friiits, so me leav es, steins, or bulbs, and some 
are roots and tubers. 

The plants whose seeds are commonly used as foods and' classed 
as vegetables belong chiefly to the Leguminosae, or pulse family. 

303 



304 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Such seeds include the various kinds of beans, peas, and lentils 
and are known collectively as legumes or pulses. Seeds of the 
Graminaceae, or grass family, which includes the common 
cereals, and which have been studied under the general name of 
" grains " in the preceding chapter, are sometimes grouped with 
the vegetables. Thus sweet corn is commonly classed as a 
vegetable, and rice, though handled as a grain crop commercially, 
is sometimes given the place of a vegetable on the table. 

The cases in which a Reshy fruit enveloping the seeds is eaten 
as a " vegetable " rather than as " fruit " fall chiefly in the 
Cucurbitaceae, or gourd family, which includes cucumbers, 
pumpkins, and squashes, the only exception of much importance 
being the tomato, which belongs to the Solanaceae. 

The plants of which the leaves^ stems, bulbs, roots, or tubers are 
eaten are widely distributed through the vegetable kingdom. 
Thus beets, chard, and spinach belong to the Chenopodiaceae ; 
cabbage, to the Cruciferae; onions and leeks, to the Liliaceae; 
the potato, to the Solanaceae ; carrots, parsnips, and parsley, to 
the Umbelliferae. 

Since among the materials commonly called vegetables there 
is so Httle relation between the botanical position of the plant 
and its use as food, it seems best to follow here the common 
grouping of the vegetables rather than their botanical classi- 
fication. 

Legumes or Pulses 

Beans, peas, and legumes are marketed as food both in the 
green condition (fresh or canned) and in the dry state, the dry 
legumes being sometimes classed as " grains." The Census 
Bureau reports the production of dry edible beans in the United 
States in 1909 at 11,251,000 bushels valued at $21,771,000 
and that of dry peas at 7,129,000 bushels valued at $ 10,964,000. 

Fresh legumes do not appear separately in the census reports. 
Hence we have no statistical data as to the extent to which the 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 305 

green and dry legumes together enter into the food supply of the 
country as a whole. From the data of about 400 studies of 
families and other groups of people, Langworthy estimates 
that they supply s-S per cent of the protein, 0.2 per cent of the 
fat, and 2.0 per cent of the carbohydrate in the average Ameri- 
can dietary. 

On account of the recent growth of the pea-canning industry, 
it seems likely that the legumes may now be playing a larger 
part in the food supply than at the time of the observations 
upon which Langworthy's estimates are based. 

The present methods of canning peas are described by Bitting 
in Bulletin 125 of the Bureau of Chemistry, United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, from which the following paragraphs 
are taken : 

Pea canning is one of the most important lines of the canning industry, 
being third in order of output, tomatoes and corn being, respectively, first 
and second, although peas are second in point of value. The pea pack for 
1907 is estimated at 6,505,961 cases, valued at $14,650,000. 

The first labor-saving device of importance in pea canning was the podding 
machine invented by Madame Faure in France in 1883. The invention was 
practically duplicated in this country in 1889. The American podding 
machine was improved, and in 1893 it was patented as a vining machine. 
The whole pea-canning industry was changed by this invention. Practically 
all of the peas canned in this country are passed through these vining 
machines, so that their use has virtually changed the growing of peas in 
small patches — market-garden fashion, with hundreds of persons going 
over the vines and picking the pods — to the cultivating of large fields which 
are cut by a machine. The viner occupies the same relation to hand picking 
in the pea-canning industry that the thrashing machine does to the flail in 
the thrashing of wheat. 

The first operation through which the peas pass after leaving the viner is 
that of washing. This is accomplished in what is known as the squirrel cage, 
which is a wire cylinder about 3 feet in diameter and 12 feet long. The 
cylinder is set on a slight incline so that when the peas are admitted at one 
end they will tend to roll to the other as the cylinder revolves. On the inside 
is a perforated pipe that sprays a stream of water upon the peas, which insures 
their being well washed provided the spray has some force. When the 

X 



3o6 



FOOD PRODUCTS 




VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 307 

weather is very warm and the peas accumulate more rapidly than they can be 
passed through the filler, it may be necessary to wash the shelled peas in cold 
water every few hours in order to prevent fermentation. 

After the peas pass through the washer, they should be graded according 
to the degree of maturity or hardness. This is accomplished by passing 
them through tanks containing salt solutions of different densities. It has 
been found that the young tender peas will float in a salt solution somewhat 
heavier than water and those more mature will sink, while the very mature 
peas will sink in a heavy salt solution. Peas, therefore, may be sorted very 
readily into different grades according to their density by using different 
strengths of salt water. In practice three grades have been made. The 
first grade consists of all peas which will float in a solution having a specific 
gravity of 1.040. The second grade consists of those peas which will sink in a 
solution of this density but which will float in a solution having a specific 
gravity of 1.070. The third grade consists of the peas which will sink in the 
latter solution. 

Grading. The grading of peas for quality is as sharp and clear as that for 
size. The lightest weight peas are the finest, being even in quality, succulent, 
and tender. The heaviest peas are the poorest, being uneven in quality, 
hard, overripe, and of bad color. The middle-weight peas are good, but 
harder than the first grade, of darker color, and not so uniform. These 
differences are most apparent before the canning is done, though they are 
readily distinguishable in the can, and also show on chemical examination. 

A chemical examination of peas graded for quality as well as for size gave 
results as shown in the table on page 308. 

The table shows more total soHds and higher protein and starch content 
in the third-grade goods. This might be expected, as the third grade repre- 
sents the more mature product. If canned peas were purchased for their 
nutritive properties only, then the third grade would be the preferable one to 
buy, but they are usually selected for their delicacy and flavor, which are 
found in the highest degree in the youngest and tenderest peas, or the first 
grade. 

The grading for size is a very simple matter. The peas are passed over 
sieves, or into a revolving cylinder having four sections with perforations of 
different sizes. The perforations in the first sieve or section measure nine 
thirty-seconds of an inch in diameter. The peas which pass through this 
size opening are known as No. i, or " petits pois." The next size of perfora- 
tion is ten thirty-seconds of an inch in diameter, and the peas passing through 
are known as No. 2, " extra sifted," or " extra fins." The third size of per- 
foration is eleven thirty-seconds of an inch, and the peas which pass through 
are known as No. 3, '' sifted," or '' fins." The last size is twelve thirty- 



3o8 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



seconds of an inch, and the peas which pass through are known as No. 4, 
or '' early June " peas. The peas which are too large to pass through this 
sieve go over the end and are known as No. 5, or " marrowfats." Some 
packers add one more sieve for late peas, with perforations thirteen thirty- 
seconds of an inch in diameter for the 'No. 5, and those which pass over this 
sieve are called No. 6, or " telephone peas." The sizes of these perforations 
are standard and in general use. Some packers have attempted to make sizes 
of their own by reaming out the holes, while others do not use all four sieves, 
but group two sizes together ; and some peas are ungraded. 



Table 39. Chemical Examination of Peas Graded for Size and 

Quality 

[Analyses made in the Division of Foods, Bureau of Chemistry.] 



Grade 




K 




(4 






i 




5 

si 






Hc^ 


< 


P-> 


fS 


(Ih "" 


uo 


CO 


P^co 


!=> 




Per cent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent Percent 


Percent 


Per cent 


Percent 


Per cent 


Petits pois 




















First . . 


14.23 


1.03 


3-44 


1.68 


0.75 


5.57 


0.72 


0.00 


1.04 


Second 


18.80 


1.78 


4.19 


1.84 


.92 


8.53 


•93 


.00 


.61 


Third . . 


18.04 


1.82 


4.41 


2.28 


.94 


8.53 


.81 


.00 


•35 


Sifted: 




















First . . 


22.06 


1.36 


5-31 


2.21 


.96 


10.23 


.98 


.00 


I.OI 


Second 


24.32 


1.04 


5-69 


2.0s 


I.OI 


11.52 


•57 


.00 


2.44 


Third . . 


27.74 


1-37 


.S-63 


2.18 


1.50 


13-52 


.48 


.00 


3^o6 


Marrowfat : 




















First . . 


22.22 


1.02 


,5.13 


2.18 


.98 


10.48 


•94 


.00 


1.49 


Second 


24.10 


1.30 


6.69 


2-55 


1-55 


8.77 


•63 


.00 


2.60 


Third . . 


27.15 


2.03 


5-94 


2.00 


1.27 


12.91 


•36 


.00 


2.63 



After the peas have been graded into sizes they are usually run in thin 
layers over slowly moving belts, so that pieces of foreign material, broken, 
fully matured, and defective peas may be seen easily and removed. Low- 
grade peas are not so carefully picked over. 

Blanching. There are two objects in blanching peas : (i) To remove the 
mucous substance from the outside and a part of the green coloring matter, 
so as to have a clear liquor in the can ; and (2) to drive water into the peas, 
so that all will be tender. 

In the young, juicy pea, the water content is at its maximum, so that the 
cleaning of the surface is all that is necessary. The time required for blanch- 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 309 

ing is from one-half to one minute for No. i and No. 2, or " petits pois " and 
" extra sifted " ; one and a half minutes for No. 3, or '' sifted " ; two minutes 
for No. 4, or " early June " ; and two and one half minutes for No. 5, or 
" marrowfat " peas. To get the best results, peas which are very old and 
hard will need a blanch approximately five times as long as young peas of the 
corresponding grade, while those in the intermediate stages will require a 
blanch proportional to their development. 

It is evident, therefore, that among peas that are good, but ungraded as to 
quality, there will be a greater or less number which will be hard because of 
under blanching, and some above size because of swelling during the blanch- 
ing and after processing. There is no part of the work of canning peas which 
requires so much judgment as that of blanching if the best quality of goods is 
to be obtained. 

When the peas leave the blancher, they are sometimes washed, and this is 
desirable in order to insure a clear liquor, especially if the peas have been 
blanched in wire baskets suspended in a tank of water. 

The peas are filled into the cans by special machines, although in very 
small factories this may be done by hand. The modern machines do the 
work with a fair degree of accuracy, insuring a uniform quantity in each 
can, then adding liquor to fill, so that the caps will just go on. 

A can is said to be well filled when the contents are within three eighths 
inch of the cap and the peas are just covered with liquor. Peas of excellent 
quality when covered to too great a depth with liquor deteriorate in appear- 
ance as can be determined by inserting a spoon and raising the peas gently 
but without appreciably disturbing the liquor. On the other hand, if there 
is not sufficient liquor to cover the peas, they are not generally attractive, and 
if very short of liquor, they become pasty. It is important, therefore, to use 
just enough liquor to cover the peas. 

The No. 2 can generally used is popularly supposed to mean a 2-pound can, 
and is often so billed and referred to in market reports, but it does not hold 
2 pounds and should be given its proper designation. The average fill of a 
can is such that after processing there will be 14 ounces of peas (400 grams) 
and 7i ounces (200 grams) of liquor. The can weighs 100 grams, making a 
total of 700 grams or 25 ounces. Any very marked deviation from these 
figures in the direction of reducing the proportion of peas would evidently be 
an adulteration with water, while any considerable increase in the proportion 
of peas would result in dryness. Cans containing only 11 or 12 ounces of 
peas are evidently short weight, though a customer cannot reasonably 
demand more than 15 ounces as a maximum and expect a good appearance. 

A can of marrowfat or telephone peas will not weigh as much by about 
three fourths ounce (20 grams) as a can of the smaller-sized peas if the fill be 



3IO FOOD PRODUCTS 

the same. The " sifted " pea, or No. 3 size, is the heaviest in the commercial 
grading. The " extra sifted " and the " petits pois " are the most expensive 
to the canner, and the tendency is to cut slightly in the weight, usually about 
three fourths of an ounce, although it is not uncommon to get cans from i| to 
2 ounces short on peas and correspondingly overweight on liquor. 

The liquor used on peas is usually composed of water, salt, and sugar. 
At one time saccharin was used by many packers instead of sugar, but this 
practice has been almost entirely discontinued. The proportion of salt and 
sugar used varies -greatly with the different packers. The lowest amounts 
given were 2 pounds of salt and 2 pounds of sugar to 100 gallons of water. 
The largest quantities used were 40 pounds of sugar and 16 pounds of salt per 
100 gallons, while the average seems to be about 10 pounds of salt and 10 of 
sugar per 100 gallons of water. There is undoubtedly a tendency to reduce 
the amount of sugar used, and a few canners have left out both salt and 
sugar in some lots of peas to determine whether there is a market for an 
unseasoned product. The heavy sirups are used in the fancy and extra 
fancy brands of goods, the amount of sugar added to the sirup being often the 
only difiference between the " superlatively good " and the " best." A fairly 
sweet sirup is sometimes used to give a weak, insipid, sugarless pea some 
semblance of quality, also to make the smooth pea as sweet as the sweet 
wrinkled variety. Analyses of 35 brands of peas purchased in the open 
market show the sugar content of the liquor to vary between 0,46 and 4.17 
per cent, the average being 2.62 per cent. More sugar is found in eastern 
than in western packed peas, and in the domestic than in the foreign peas. 

After being filled the can is passed through the wiping machine, the cap is 
put on and soldered in the automatic capper, the tipping follows, and then 
comes the final inspection in the water bath for leaks. At one factory the 
cans were passed through an exhauster for the double purpose of heating them 
uniformly and of driving off a certain characteristic odor which is objection- 
able. 

Peas are processed in retorts under pressure, or in a solution of a calcium 
salt, in order to secure a temperature above that of boiling water. The 
time and temperature necessary to sterilize peas cannot be given with cer- 
tainty because of the variation in factory practice and conditions which 
must be taken into account. If all factories handled their material promptly 
after being cut in the field, allowed no delays, such as standing on wagons or 
in piles to ferment, washed the peas well as soon as thrashed, graded them 
equally well, blanched them according to their needs, siruped and filled the 
cans the same, tipped the cans at the same temperature, and brought them 
to the process tank under like conditions, it would be possible to develop 
a process which might be safe for nearly all localities. Such ideal conditions 



I 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



311 



are not to be found in practice, and hence it is that one factory will employ a 
a process of 240° F. for twenty minutes and do it successfully, while another 
must double the time before being reasonably successful in preventing 
spoilage. The effect of long processing is to cause a gradual decrease in the 
amount of free liquor in the can and to cause the peas to become sticky and 
adherent. This effect is shown in the following table : 

Table 40. Effect of Variation in Time of Processing on Liquor 
Content of Can 



Grade of Peas 


Grams of Liquor in Cans processed for 


20 
Minutes 


25 

Minutes 


30 
Minutes 


Minutes 


so 
Minutes 


Minutes 


Marrowfat . . . 

Sifted 

Petits pois . . . 


215 
155 
155 


212 
140 
150 


190 
125 
125 


165 
115 
115 


70 
90 
60 


60 
85 
SO 



The peas were sufficiently cooked in twenty-five minutes, and at each 
succeeding step they became thicker and stickier. 

Examination of commercial canned peas. Peas were purchased from 15 
groceries, representing 135 brands, 125 of which were of domestic production 
and 10 were imported. With the exception of 5 brands, the domestic peas 
were put up in standard No. 2 cans. The average weight of a can of peas was 
found to be 705 grams (25.2 ounces) ; the can, 103 grams (3.66 ounces) ; the 
peas, after the liquor was allowed to drain through a sieve for one minute, 
394 grams (14 ounces) ; and the liquor, 208 grams (7.5 ounces). The varia- 
tion in the total weight was between 650 and 735 grams ; the can between 
95 and no grams; the peas between 301 and 605 grams; and the liquor 
between o and 300 grams. 

In the experimental work it was determined that a well-filled can should 
have 400 grams of peas and 200 grams of liquor, and the average for the com- 
mercial brands is essentially the same. When a can contains less than 385 
grams, it is usually a slack fill, unless it contains marrowfat or telephone peas ; 
if it contains more than 415 grams, the peas will be overcrowded or the liquor 
will be poor. 

Spoilage. The spoilage in canned peas may be classified under three 
heads : ( i ) That due to leaks in the can ; ( 2 ) to insufficient processing ; and 
(3) to spoilage prior to the canning. 

The spoilage due to leaks is largely a matter of carelessness in inspection. 



312 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Goods spoiled owing to insufficient processing are generally classed as 
" swells " and " sours." Formerly spoilage of this character was a serious 
matter, but the discovery of the cause and the means of prevention has 
decreased the loss from this source. At first No. 2 cans were boiled in open 
kettles from one to three hours, and the losses were not considered large, 
although the percentage would probably be considered high at this time. 
Later the processing was done in a retort at a higher temperature than that 
of boiling water, in order to reduce the time. 

The spoilage occurring before the peas enter the can is due to allowing 
them to stand in piles, on the wagons or after thrashing, until they heat and 
start fermentation. If the peas are kept moving from the vine to the can, the 
spoilage from this source is very small. 

Composition of legumes. The legumes are characterized by 
high protein content, as will readily be seen from the table 
beyond, where these and other vegetables are arranged alpha- 
betically. 

It will be seen that beans, lentils, and peas are not only richer 
in protein than other vegetables, but when dry they show 
higher percentages of protein than does fresh or canned meat. 
Since the dry legumes contain also considerable amounts of 
carbohydrate and small amounts of fat, they are in general of 
higher fuel value than meats. Meat fat enough to equal the 
dry legumes in energy value would be considerably below them 
in protein content. 

Legumes also furnish important quantities of iron, phos- 
phorus, and, to a less conspicuous degree, calcium. Notwith- 
standing the high protein content, the base-forming elements 
predominate. 

Digestibility. Legumes in the green state seem to be more 
readily digested than dried legumes. The latter have been sta- 
ple articles of diet since ancient times, but have almost always 
been considered more or less difficult of digestion. This im- 
pression is based more upon consciousness of the digestive 
process than upon measurements of actual losses in digestion, 
since the latter have been made only in recent years and show 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



313 



the losses are not so large as might be supposed. Only the more 
recent experiments will be cited here. 

Snyder, feeding a porridge made from dried peas as the prin- 
cipal part of a simple mixed diet, found the coefficient of di- 
gestibility for the peas alone : protein, 80 per cent, and carbo- 
hydrates, 96 per cent, — the amount of fat in the peas being too 
small for an accurate measurement of its digestibility. 

Woods and Mansfield, in an experiment in which baked beans 
furnished about one fourth of the total protein, estimated the 
coefficient of digestibility of the protein of the beans at 78 per 
cent. 

Wait, in a very extended series of digestion experiments,^ 
in which legumes were fed as a prominent constituent of simple 
mixed diets, found the following coefficients of digestibility for 
the legumes : 



Kidney beans ... 
White beans . . . 
Cowpeas, " whippoorwill 
Cowpeas, " clay " . 
Cowpeas, " lady " . 



Protein 



Per cent 

77 
78 
70 
74 
83 



Carbohydrate 



Per cent 

94 
96 

87 



95 



The comparative low digestibility of protein is not entirely 
a matter of the nature of the protein itself, but is at least partly 
due to the associated substances, for when the isolated protein 
is fed, a much higher coefficient is obtained. 

Thus in a Japanese experiment cited by Oshima ^ in which a soy-bean 
preparation consisting chiefly of the bean protein was fed, the coefficient of 
digestibility for the protein was 96 per cent, and Salkowski found a coefficient 
of 94 per cent for the isolated protein of the horse bean. 

1 United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 
Bulletin 187. 

2 United Stated Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 
PuUetin 159. 



314 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Mendel and Fine/ feeding a man with a simple mixed diet of which 90 per 
cent of the protein was in the form of a commercial soy-bean meal " which 
betrayed no cellular structure under the microscope," found a coefficient of 
digestibility of 85.3 for the protein of the diet as against 87.9 and 88.0 for 
mixed diets in which the protein was furnished chiefly by meat and eggs. 

Utilization in metabolism. In the experiment of Mendel and 
Fine just quoted, the nitrogen balance showed a smaller storage 
of nitrogen during the soy-bean period than during the preceding 
and following periods, in which the source of protein was meat 
and eggs, indicating a slightly less favorable utilization of the 
legume protein in metabolism. With the exception of the early 
work of Rutgers ^ this appears to be the only investigation in 
which nitrogen balance was studied. Osborne and Mendel 
have, however, shown that young rats can make active growth 
and normal development on a diet with glycinin of soy-bean as 
the sole protein. 



Table 41. Amino Acids 


FROM Proteins of Legumes (0 


sborne) 




Phaseolin 


ViGNIN 


Legumin 


ViCILIN 


Legumelin 




(Bean) 


(Cowpea) 


(Pea) 


(Pea) 


(Pea) 


Glycin . . . 


0.55 


0.00 


0.38 


0.00 


0.50 


Alanin . . . 


1.80 


0.97 


2.08 


0.50 


0.92 


Valin . . . 


1.04 


0.34 


— 


0.15 


0.69 


Leucin . . . 


9-65 


7.82 


8.00 


9-38 


9-63 


Prohn . . . 


2.77 


5-25 


3-22 


4.06 


3-96 


Phenylalanin 


3-25 


5-27 


3-75 


3-82 


4-79 


Aspartic acid 


5-24 


3-97 


5-30 


5-30 


4-11 


Glutamic acid . 


14-54 


16.89 


16.97 


21.34 


12.96 


Serin .... 


0.38 


— 


0-53 


— 


— 


Tyrosin . . . 


2.84 


2.26 


1-55 


2.38 


1.56 


Arginin . . 


4.87 


7.20 


II. 71 


8.91 


5-45 


Histidin . 


2.62 


3-o8 


1.69 


2.17 


2.27 


Lysin .... 


4-58 


4.28 


4.98 


5-40 


3-03 


Ammonia 


2.06 


2.32 


2.0s 


2.03 


1.26 


Tryptophan . 


present 


present 


present 
62.21 


present 


present 


Summation . 


56.19 


59-65 


65-44 


51-13 



1 Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 10, pages 435-438. 
^ Cited in Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, page 308. 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 315 

The chemical nature of legume proteins as indicated by the 
amino acids obtained on hydrolysis has been investigated by 
Osborne with the results as shown on previous page. 

In these cases no attempt was made to determine cystin. 

These results indicate that the proteins of the legumes are 
very similar in chemical constitution to those of meat. 

Physiological effects of peas greened with copper. Canned 
peas, particularly those prepared in France for export to Eng- 
land and to the United States, have to a large extent been treated 
with small quantities of copper salts to preserve or intensify the 
green color. 

Under the Food and Drugs Act, the question of the whole- 
someness of vegetables thus greened with copper was raised 
and was referred to the Referee Board of Consulting Scientific 
Experts for investigation, with the result that the importation 
of such coppered vegetables has been forbidden. The following 
abstract of the report rendered by the Referee Board is from 
the Experiment Station Record published by the United States 
Department of Agriculture and is here given verbatim to show 
the experimental methods employed and the reasoning by which 
the conclusion of the Board was reached. 

Influence of vegetables greened with copper salts on the nutrition and 
health of man. I. Remsen et al. ( U. S. Dept. Agr. Rpt. 97, pp. 461). — This 
report of the Referee Board of Consulting Scientific Experts presents in detail 
and discusses the experimental data obtained in the four series of investiga- 
tions, summarized below : 

Action of coppered vegetables on the health and nutrition of men, A. E. Taylor 
(pp. 9-208) . — In these experiments normal young men were given mixed diets 
containing measured quantities of canned vegetables (notably peas) colored 
by copper, and the usual means were taken for measuring and analyzing the 
food and excreta during a period of about 3 months. The author summarizes 
the results as follows : 

" The sole results that are clinically apparent in the subjects who ingested 
coppered vegetables in amount carrying up to 0.025 gm. of copper per day 
were possibly slight disturbance of the alimentary tract in one ; possibly a 
slight increase in unresorbed nitrogen in a second ; and possibly a slight reduc- 



3i6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

tion in the retention of nitrogen in the same individual. These data are of 
very doubtful value. The important fact that has developed in these inves- 
tigations is the retention of copper. In all the subjects there was retention 
of copper, varying from individual to individual ; in i subject very high con- 
sidering the dosage, in 2 marked, in others low. These data parallel those that 
have been obtained by Professor Chittenden in animals. And, by analogy, 
we may infer that the retention was in the liver. By further analogy with 
lead and mercury, we may infer that a later redistribution may occur through- 
out the body, I do not believe such a retention of a heavy metal can be a 
negligible matter even in the complete absence of present symptoms referable 
thereto ; the whole tenor of the pharmacology of the heavy metals is con- 
trary to such an interpretation. It will be only safe to exclude the retention 
of a metal like copper from the body. The retention in the case of the sub- 
jects of this experiment followed ingestions of copper that could not be 
called large. And apparently such retention might be expected to follow any 
ingestion of coppered vegetables. Under these circumstances the ingestion 
of vegetables colored with copper constitutes a menace to health." 

Investigations of the effects of foods containing copper compounds on the 
general health and metabolism of man, J. H. Long (pp. 209-430). — The method 
of experimenting was similar to that used in the series conducted by Taylor, 
but the tests were continued for 4 months, made up of periods in which the 
copper dosage was varied. The author reached the following conclusions : 

" During the lower dosage periods with copper in peas our records point to 
nothing which may be clearly applied in showing a harmful action of the 
metal. It appears that 100 gm. daily of peas containing 10 mg. of copper 
occasioned no marked disturbance beyond the distaste for the peas them- 
selves. . . . 

" About the only conclusion that we may legitimately draw from our low 
dosage experiments is that it may be difficult to feed enough peas — and this 
may be even more truly the case with certain other vegetables — to ingest 
copper in amount sufficient to produce a harmful action, as shown by clinical 
and metabolism observations. 

" On the other hand, it is certainly true that copper sulphate as ingested 
with milk or beer through periods of some weeks is far from being harmless 
or free from easily observed effects. The copper in this form has apparently 
a physiological action distinct from that in the peas, and is unquestionably 
more active. ... 

" The addition of copper salts to peas and other vegetables has unques- 
tionably the effect of suggesting to the user greater freshness than may be 
actually the case. While a very old pea may not be easily colored, it is true 
that peas which have begun to harden, and are far from the young or fresh 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 317 

stage, may be given enough copper materially to brighten their appearance. 
In this way it is clear, a certain kind of inferiority is covered up. . . . 

" If, in the coppering of vegetables, an excess of the metallic salt is em- 
ployed, an injurious action of this copper may certainly be affirmed. This 
danger is not a remote one, as a high copper content of cans of peas, with 
copper in the liquor as well as in the solid, has frequently been reported. In 
our laboratory experiments we have been able to show that an excessive 
amount of copper may be easily added and loosely held, in some other than 
the ordinary chlorophyll combination. As long as this possibility is 
present the whole coloring process, involving the use of a heavy metallic 
salt, must be looked upon with distrust, and must be considered as highly 
objectionable." 

Absorption and distribution of copper when coppered vegetables are eaten, 
R. H. Chittenden (pp. 431-448). — In these experiments dogs and monkeys 
were fed with coppered vegetables in order to ascertain " how far copper is 
absorbed and to what degree it is deposited in the organs and tissues of the 
body when taken in small doses in combination with a food such as canned 
peas." 

The conclusions of the author are that " when coppered vegetables are 
eaten with the food a certain proportion of the copper is absorbed and may 
be temporarily deposited in the liver. Even when taken in very small 
amounts, copper ingested in this way is prone to be absorbed in some degree, 
and thus constitutes a menace to good health. The conclusion seems 
obvious that vegetables which have been greened 'with copper salts are 
adulterated, because they contain an added poisonous or deleterious ingre- 
dient which may render such articles of food injurious to health, whether 
taken in large quantities or in small quantities. In any event, there is an 
element of danger in coppered foods which, from a physiological standpoint, 
should not be ignored." 

Histological examination of the tissues of dogs and monkeys, T. Smith (pp. 
449-461) . — This report gives the results of autopsies made on animals used in 
the feeding experiments conducted by Chittenden. 

• " A comparison of the gross and minute pathological conditions found in 
the 8 dogs shows a relatively slight yield from these methods of inquiry. A 
few facts, however, seem worthy of note. 

" There has been no noticeable influence of the copper salts on the para- 
sites in the digestive tract. Thus, dogs Nos. i and 3 were from the same 
litter and probably infested alike with worms at the start. But the autopsy 
showed no difference, although No. 3 had been fed with coppered peas and 
No. I with uncoppered peas. Parasites were also present in the other dogs 
fed with coppered peas. ... In general it can be stated that the feeding 



3i8 FOOD PRODUCTS 

with coppered peas did not have any decided vermifuge action. , . . Even 
the copper sulphate did not completely remove intestinal parasites. 

" Very little, if any, appreciable differences were found between the con- 
trols on the one hand (Nos. i and 2) and the dogs fed with coppered peas on 
the other (Nos. 3 to 6). There was some fat in the liver of No. 3 as com- 
pared with his (control) brother No. i. More than this cannot be stated. 
There is, however, a distinction to be drawn between the dogs fed with cop- 
pered peas and those fed with copper sulphate. No. 8 was chloroformed 
before the close of the experiment because ill. In both No. 7 and No. 8 
there was present an interstitial inflammation of the kidneys localized in the 
cortex, which was absent in all the others. The kidney lesions in Nos. i and 
3 were, as already stated, due to parasites. In No. 8 there was also other 
lesions (extensive, fresh pigment in the spleen, leucocytosis)." 

In the case of monkeys " the microscopic examination, as far as it went, 
did not reveal any differences between control and treated monkeys. It 
would seem as if this species of animal was better able to neutralize the poison- 
ous action of copper sulphate than the dog." 

From a study of these 4 reports, the Referee Board reached the following 
conclusion : 

" Copper salts used in the coloring of vegetables as in commercial practice 
cannot be said to reduce, or lower, or injuriously affect the quality or strength 
of such vegetables, as far as the food value is concerned. 

" Copper salts used in the greening of vegetables may have the effect of 
concealing inferiority, inasmuch as the bright green color imparted to the 
vegetables simulates a state of freshness they may not have possessed before 
treatment. 

" In attempting to define a large quantity of copper, regard must be had to 
the maximum amount of greened vegetables which might be consumed daily. 
A daily dose of 100 gm. of coppered peas or beans, which are the most highly 
colored vegetables in the market, would not ordinarily contain more than 100 
to 150 mg. of copper. Such a bulk of greened vegetables is so large, however, 
that it would hardly be chosen as a part of a diet for many days in succession. 
Any amount of copper above 150 mg. daily may therefore be considered ex- 
cessive in practice. A small quantity is that amount which, in the ordinary 
use of vegetables, may be consumed over longer periods. From this point of 
view, 10 to 12 mg. of copper may be regarded as the upper lynit of a small 
quantity. 

" It appears from our investigations that in certain directions even such 
small quantities of copper may have a deleterious action and must be con- 
sidered injurious to health." 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 319 

Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, and Yams 

Langworthy estimates that potatoes, sweet potatoes, and yams 
furnish ^.8 per cent of the protein, 0.3 per cent of the fat, and 
8.;^ per cent of the carbohydrate of the average American 
dietary. 

Census reports show for 1909 a production in the United 
States of 389,000,000 bushels of potatoes valued at $166,000,000 
and 59,232,000 bushels of sweet potatoes and yams valued at 
$35,429,000. 

Since relatively small quantities of potatoes or sweet potatoes 
are used for stock feeding or for the manufacture of starch or 
alcohol, in the United States, the yearly consumption as food 
must be nearly the amounts produced or about 4 bushels per 
capita. 

The potato is a native of America, said to have been first 
found in Chili, and it was not commonly cultivated in Europe 
until the eighteenth century. 

At present potatoes are raised in large quantities in Europe 
bix th for foo d, ioMndustrial^purposes such as stajxhy-glucpsje, 
^and alcohol manufacture, ^ nd_f or stock-feeding. Estimates of 
per capita consumption of potatoes as human food in European 
countries are not at hand. 

For description of the potato industry, the reader must be 
referred to books on agriculture and horticulture. A very com- 
prehensive discussion will be found in " The Potato Industry of 
Colorado," published as Bulletin 158 of the Agricultural Ex- 
periment Station, Fort Collins, Colorado. 

Composition. The averages of American analyses are tabu- 
lated with those of other vegetables beyond (Table 42). In 
round numbers the potato contains 2 to 2.5 per cent of protein ; 
18 to 2oper^_c£iil_Qf jaarbohydrates7~chiefiy starch ; almost no 
fat ; about i per cent of ash ; and"75 to 79 per cent of- water. 
Or, in still simpler terms, about three fourths of the potato is 



320 FOOD PRODUCTS 

water, and of the solids there is about eight times as much 
starch as protein, a little fiber, a very little fat, and an amount 
of ash which is relatively large in comparison with most other 
foods. 

Digestion experiments with potatoes fed in considerable 
quantity to healthy men have been reported by Rubner, by 
Snyder, and by Bryant and Milner, who found respectively 
68, 72, and 73 per cent of the protein and 92, 93, and 99 per cent 
of the carbohydrate utilized. Thus the fuel value of the potato 
is as well utihzed as that of most foods, and at least 70 per cent 
of the protein is digested and absorbed. 

The nutritive economy of potatoes as food will be discussed 
later in this chapter. 

Structure of the potato. Since the potato tuber is in reality 
a thickened stem, it can be seen to consist of fairly definite an- 
atomical parts. The following description is taken from Lang- 
worthy, Farmers' Bulletin 295 of the United States Department 
of Agriculture : 

The outer skin of the tuber consists of a thin, grayish brown, 
corky substance and corresponds roughly to the bark of an over- 
ground stem. If a crosswise section of a raw potato is held up 
to the light, three distinct parts besides the skin may be seen. 
The outermost one is known as the cortical layer and may be 
from 0.12 to 0.5 inch in thickness. This layer is slightly colored, 
the tint varying with the kind, and turns green if exposed to 
the light for some time, thus showing its relation to the tender 
green layer beneath the bark of overground stems. It is denser 
than the other parts of the potato and contains many fibro- 
vascular bundles, especially on the inner edge, where a marked 
ring of them plainly separates this layer from the next. The 
interior or flesh of the tuber is made up of two layers known as 
the outer and inner medullary areas. The outer one forms the 
main bulk of a well-developed potato and contains the greater 
part of the food ingredients. The inner medullary area, some- 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



321 



times called the core, appears in a cross section of the tuber to 
spread irregular arms up into the outer, so that its outline 
roughly suggests a star. It contains slightly more cellulose 





Fig. 23, — Transverse and longitudinal sections of the potato: a, skin; b, corti- 
cal layer ; c, outer medullary layer ; d, inner medullary layer. (U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture.) 

and less water and nutrients than the outer medullary portion. 
These four parts of the tuber are shown in Fig. 23. 

The corky skin of the potato makes up about 2.5 per cent of the 
whole, and the cortical layer 8.5 per cent, leaving 89 per cent 
for the medullary areas. ... 



322 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



As in all other plant forms, the framework of the tuber is made 
up of cellulose. Cellulose forms the walls of a network of cells, 
which in turn form the body of the tuber. These cells vary in 
shape and size in different sections of the tuber according to 
the part they play in its life. In the flesh they serve mainly 
for storage, and in them lie the starch grains. (See Fig. 24.) 

In young tubers there is a larger proportion of sugars and less 
starch than when they have become mature. As the tuber lies 
in the ground the starch content increases. When it begins to 
sprout, however, part of the starch is converted by a ferment 
in the tuber into soluble glucose. Thus, young or early potatoes 




Fig, 24. — Changes of potato starch cells in cooking : a, raw ; b, partially cooked ; 
c, thoroughly cooked. (U. S. Department of Agriculture.) 

and old ones both have a smaller proportion of starch and more 
soluble sugars than well-grown but still fresh tubers. The 
effect of cooking on the mechanical condition of the potato cells 
is shown in Fig. 24. 

The figures show the great changes in the mechanical condi- 
tion of the potato flesh under the influence of heat, the broken 
cell walls and the increased bulk of the starch grains being 
particularly noticeable. 

The sweet potato plant {Ipomma batata or Batatas edulis) is 
not closely related to the white potato, botanically, but in com- 
position and use as food the tubers are much alike, the sweet 
potato having in general about the same nutrients as the white 
potato and in addition from 5 to 8 per cent of sugar. 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 323 

Recently the canning of sweet potatoes has developed into 
an important industry, and has made these vegetables available 
as a staple food throughout the year. 

For further accounts of potatoes and sweet potatoes, reference 
may be made to Farmers' Bulletins 295 and 324 of the United 
States Department of Agriculture. 

Other Vegetables 

The Census Bureau reports that except for potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, and yams, which are generally grown in considerable 
quantities, it is practically impossible to obtain a correct total 
of the acreage, production, or value of individual kinds of vege- 
tables. The value of vegetables reported for the census year 
1909 amounted to $216,257,000 (exclusive of potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, and yams and dried beans and peas) . 

The largest industry here involved is that of canning tomatoes, 
of which there were put up in canning factories in the United 
States, in the census year 1909, a total of 12,800,000 cases of 
12 cans each. This is exclusive of the tomatoes canned at home 
and also of the manufacture of ketchups, sauces, etc. 

The canning of tomatoes presents no special features requiring 
detailed description. The acidity of the material makes it 
possible to sterilize the canned product with greater certainty 
and at a lower temperature than in the case of peas or of canned 
meat. 

The Board of Food and Drug Inspection has ruled that the 
water naturally present in tomatoes is ample to serve as a 
medium for the cooking and packing processes involved in 
tomato canning, and that the addition either of water or of juice 
in the canning of tomatoes shall be judged an adulteration. 

In the absence of data which would permit a discussion of 
the relative amounts grown and used, it seems unnecessary here 
to enter into any description of the sources and technology 
of the different kinds of vegetables. 



324 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Composition of Vegetables 

The average composition of practically all vegetables used for 
food to any important extent in the United States is shown in 
the following table, which is based chiefly on analyses compiled 
by Atwater and Bryant, and published by the United States 
Department of Agriculture : 

Table 42. Average Composition of American Vegetables 1 



Description 



Artichokes . . . 
Asparagus, fresh 
Asparagus, cooked . 
Beans, butter, green : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Beans, dried . . , 
Beans, frijoles (New 
Mexico) , . . 
Beans, Lima, dried . 
Beans, Lima, fresh : 

Edible portion 

As purchased , . 
Beans, mesquite, dry 
Beans, string, cooked : 

Edible portion . . 
Beans, string, fresh : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 






Per 

cent 



50.0 



55-0 



7.0 



Per 
cent 

79-5 

94.0 

91.6 

58.9 

29.4 

12.6 



7-5 
10.4 

68.5 

30.8 

4.8 

95-3 

S9.2 
83.0 



Per 
cent 

2.6 

1.8 
2.1 

9.4 

4-7 

22.5 

21.9 
18.1 

7-1 

3-2 

12.2 



2.3 
2.1 



r ^ W 

1 Wr" 



Per 
cent 



Per 

cent 

16.7 

2.2 

29.1 
14.6 

59-6 

65.1 
65-9 

22.0 

9.9 

77.1 

1.9 

7-4 
6.9 



B 2 z 

fin 



Per 

cent 



(')4-4 



1-7 



1.8 



Per 

cent 



^i 



Cal. 

358 
lOI 
213 

723 
361 

1564 

1633 
1586 

557 

250 

1723 

94 

189 
176 



iSuch vegetables as potatoes, squash, beets, etc., have a certain amount of 
inedible material, skin, seeds, etc. The amount varies with the method of prepar- 
ing the vegetables, and cannot be accurately estimated. The figures given for 
refuse of vegetables, fruits, etc., are assumed to represent approximately the amount 
gf refuse in these foods as ordinarily prepared. 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 325 

Table 42. Average Composition of American Vegetables — Continued 



Description 



Beets, cooked . . 
Beets, fresh : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased . 
Cabbage : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Cabbage, curly . 
Cabbage sprouts : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Carrots, fresh : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Carrots, evaporated 
CauUfiower . . 
Celery : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased . 
Chard .... 
CoUards : 

Edible portion . 
Corn, green : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased . 
Cucumbers : 

Edible portion . 

As purchased . 
Eggplant, edible portion 
Greens, beet, cooked 
Greens, dandelion, as 
purchased . . 
Greens, turnip-salad. . 
Kohl-rabi, edible portion 



24 



16 



Per 

cent 



15.0 



61.J 



61,0 



15.0 



Per 
cent 



87.S 
70.0 

91-5 

77-7 
87.3 

88.2 

88.2 

70.6 

3-5 

92.3 

94-5 
75-6 
89.6 

87.1 

75-4 
29.4 

95-4 
81. 1 
92.9 
89-5 

81.4 
86.7 
91. 1 



Per 

cent 

2.3 



1.6 
1-3 

1.6 
1.4 

4.1 

4-7 
1.8 

I.I 
••9 

7-7 
1.8 

I.I 

•9 

3-2 

4-5 

3-1 
1.2 

.8 

•7 
1.2 
2.2 

2.4 
4.2 
2,0 



« a « 



Per 
cent 



.1 
.1 

•3 
.2 
.6 

I.I 

•4 

.4 

.2 

3.6 

•5 



I.I 
.4 

.2 

.2 

•3 

3-4 

i.o 
.6 
.1 



Per 
cent 

7.4 



9.7 

7-7 

5.6 
4.8 

6.2 

4-3 
1-7 

9.3 

7-4 

80.3 

4-7 

^•3> 
2.6 
5-0 

6.3 

19.7 
7-7 

3-1 

2.6 

S-i 
3-2 

10.6 
6.3 
5-5 



o g w 

§ i 
m 



Per 
cent 



n .p 



e)/.i 



{'')i.i 



{')i.o 



.5 



e) .7 



1-3 



1.0 

•9 
4.9 

.7 

1.0 

.8 

1.6 

1-5 

.7 
•3 

.5 

.4 

•S 

1.7 

4.6 
2.2' 

1-3 



326 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Table 42. Average Composition of American Vegetables — Continued 



Description 



Leeks : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Lentils, dried . . 
Lettuce : 

Edible portion , . 

As purchased . . 
Mushrooms . . . 
Okra: 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Onions, fresh : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Onions, cooked . . 
Onions, green (New- 
Mexico) : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Parsnips : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Peas, dried . . . 
Peas, green : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Peas, green, cooked 
Peas, sugar, green 
Cowpeas, dried . . 
Cowpeas, green, edible 

portion . . . 
Potatoes, raw or fresh 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 



136 



Per 

cent 



15.0 



15.0 



12.5 



51.0 



45.0 



g 



Per 

cent 

91.8 

78.0 

8.4 

94-7 
80.5 
88.1 

90.2 
78.9 

87.6 
78.9 
91.2 



87.1 
42.6 

83.0 

66.4 

9-5 

74.6 
40.8 
73-8 
81.8 
13.0 

65-9 

78.3 
62.6 



Per 

cent 

1.2 
I.O 

25-7 

1.2 
1.0 

3-5 

1.6 
1.4 

1.6 
1.4 
1.2 



1.0 

•5 

1.6 

1-3 

24.6 

7.0 
3.6 
6.7 
3-4 
21.4 

9.4 

2.2 
1.8 



Per 
cent 



.1 
.1 

•5 

•4 

1.0 

•5 
.2 

3-4 

.4 

1.4 



1^ 

<■— ' w 
2 < O 



Per 
cent 

5.8 

S-o 

59-2 

2.9 

2.5 
6.8 

7.4 
6.5 

9.9 
8.9 
4.9 



II. 2 
5-5 

13-5 
10.8 
62.0 

16.9 

9.8 

14.6 

13-7 
60.8 

22.7 

18.4 

14.7 



O g tn 
« n W 

a< w <: 

Per 
cent 



C) .7 

-8 






1.6 
4.1 



e) -4 



Per 
cent 



.6 
•3 

1.4 
I.I 
2.9 

1.0 
.6 
1.5 
. -7 
3-4 

1.4 
1.0 



fa 0^ 



147 
125 

I58I 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 327 

Table 42. Average Composition of American Vegetables — Continued 



Description 



Potatoes, evaporated . 
Potatoes, cooked, boiled 
Potatoes, cooked, chips 
Potatoes, cooked, 

mashed, and creamed 
Potatoes, sweet, raw, or 
fresh : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . . 
Potatoes, sweet, cooked 
Pumpkins : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Radishes : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Rhubarb : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Rutabagas : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Sauerkraut 
Spinach, fresh 
Spinach, cooked 
Squash : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Tomatoes, fresh 
Tomatoes, dried 
Turnips : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 



Per 

cent 



50.0 



30.0 



40.0 



30.0 



50.0 



30.0 



Per 
cent 

7-1 

75-5 

2.2 

75-1 



69.0 
55-2 
51-9 

93-1 
46.5 

91.8 
64-3 

94.4 
56.6 

88.9 
62,2 
88.8 
92.3 



88.3 

44.2 

94-3 

7.3 

89.6 
62.7 



Per 
cent 

8.5 

2-5 

6.8 



2.6 



1.8 
1.4 
3-0 

i.o 
•5 

1-3 
•9 

.6 
•4 

1.3 
.9 
1-7 
2.1 
2.1 

1.4 

.7 

.9 

12.9 

1-3 

•9 



Per 
cent 

.4 
.1 

39-8 

3-0 



•7 

.6 

2.1 

.1 
.1 



•S 

•3 

4.1 



eC 



Per 

cent 

80.9 
20.9 
46.7 

17.8 



27.4 
21.9 
42.1 

S-2 
2.6 

5.8 
4.0 

3-6 
2.2 

8.5 
6.0 
3-8 
3-2 
2.6 

9.0 

4-5 

3-9 

62.3 

8.1 

5-7 



« 5 w 
S 2 "3 

B H W 

HI 



Per 

cent 



0.6 



r)I.J 



e) .7 



{')!•! 



e) -8 
n -6 



{')i-3 



Per 

cent 

3-1 
1.0 

4-5 



•5 
9.4 

.8 
.6 



328 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 42. Average Composition of American Vegetables — Continued 



Description 




P4 


s 
% 
^ 


2; 

g 


i 




ill 


1 


Si 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cnl 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cc»/ 


KyUlt. 


VEGETABLES, CANNED 




















Artichokes . * . . 


3 


— 


92. 5 


.8 


— 


5-0 


.6 


1.7 


105 


Asparagus 


14 


— 


94.4 


1.5 


.1 


2.8 


■5 


1.2 


82 


Beans, baked .... 


21 


— 


68.9 


6.9 


2.5 


19.6 


r)2.5 


2.1 


583 


Beans, string .... 


29 


— 


93-7 


I.I 


•I 


3-8 


n -5 


1-3 


93 


Beans, little green . . 


I 


— 


93.8 


1.2 


.1 


3-4 


.6 


1-5 


87 


Beans, wax .... 


I 


— 


94.6 


I.O 


.1 


3-1 


.6 


1.2 


78 


Beans, haricots verts 


7 


— 


95-2 


I.I 


.1 


2.5 


•5 


I.I 


69 


Beans, haricots flageolets 


3 


— 


81.6 


4.6 


.1 


12.S 


1.0 


1.2 


314 


Beans, Lima .... 


16 


— 


79-5 


4.0 


.3 


14.6 


es)7.2 


1.6 


350 


Beans, red kidney, shelled 


I 


— 


72.7 


7.0 


.2 


18.5 


1.2 


1.6 


471 


Brussels sprouts, as pur- 




















chased .... 


I 


— 


93-7 


i-S 


.1 


3-4 


•5 


1.3 


93 


Com, green ^ . . . . 


52 


— 


76.1 


2.8 


1.2 


19.0 


n ^8 


.9 


445 


Corn and tomatoes . . 


2 


— 


87.6 


1.6 


•4 


9.6 


•5 


.8 


220 


Macedoine (mixed 




















vegetables) . . . 


5 


— 


93-1 


1.4 


— 


4-5 


.6 


1.0 


107 


Okra2 . . . 




4 
88 





94.4 
85.3 


.7 


.1 


3.6 


.7 


1.2 


82 


Peas, green ' . 




— 


3.6 


.2 


9.8 


ni.2 


I.I 


251 


Potatoes, sweet 




2 


— 


55-2 


1.9 


.4 


41.4 


0) .8 


I.I 


802 


Pumpkins 




7 

5 

12 





91.6 
87.6 


.8 


.2 


6.7 


C)j.7 


.7 


144 


Squash 







•9 


.< 


10.5 


(') '7 


.5 


227 


Succotash . 







75-9 
94.0 


3-6 
1.2 


1.0 


18.6 


(10) .9 


•9 


444 


Tomatoes* . . 




19 





.2 


4.0 


(") .5 


.6 


103 


PICKLES, CONDIMENTS, 




















ETC. 




















Catsup, tomato . . . 


2 


— 


82.8 


1-5 


.2 


12.3 




3-2 


259 


Horseradish .... 


2 


— 


86.4 


1.4 


.2 


10.5 




1-5 


224 



1 Thirty-two samples contained an average of 0.4 per cent NaCl. 
2 Three samples contained an average of i.i per cent NaCl. 
3 Eighty samples contained an average of 0.7 per cent NaCl. 
* Seven samples contained an average of o.i per cent NaCl. 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 329 

Table 42. Average Composition of American Vegetables — Continued 



Description 



I! 




S 
5 
^ 


a 

1 




U en £2 


ill 
i 


1 




Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 




cent 


cent 


ce»/ 


cent 


ccw/ 


cent 


cent 


I 


27.0 


58.0 


I.I 
.8 

1-7 


27.6 


II.6 
8.5 




1-7 
1.2 

3-4 
2.7 




42-3 
64.7 










25-9 


4-3 
3-5 








52.4 


1.4 






I 

5 


— 


5-0 


15-5 


8.5 


63.0 

70.0 

2.7 




8.0 
7.6 
3.6 

.7 






5-3 


9.4 


7-7 




3 




92.9 
93.8 


•5 


•3 










•4 


4.0 





I 

H 



pickles, condiments, 

ETC. 

Olives, green : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Olives, ripe : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . , 
Peppers (paprica), green 

dried .... 
Peppers, red chili 
Pickles, cucumber 
Pickles, mixed, as pur- 
chased . . . 



Cal. 



1357 
994 

1166 
947 

1771 

1756 

66 

109 



The nutritive economy of vegetables and their place in the 
diet is discussed in connection with fruits and nuts further on in 
this chapter. 

Fruits and Nuts 

Census reports show for 1909 a production of fruits and nuts 
(exclusive of peanuts) in the United States amounting in value 
to $222,024,000. 

Of this, " smair fruits " contributed $29,974,000; orchard 
fruits, $140,867,000; grapes, $22,028,000; citrus fruits, $22,- 
711,000; other tropical and subtropical fruits, $1,995,000; 
nuts, $4,448,000. 

The value of the peanut crop was reported at $18,272,000. 

Of the " small fruits," strawberries represented over half the 
total acreage and about three fourths of the total value ; next 



330 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



in order of value of product among the small fruits follow rasp- 
berries, blackberries (and dewberries), currants, gooseberries, 
and cranberries. 

Among the orchard fruits, apples are much the most important, 
being about three fifths of the total. Peaches and nectarines 
rank next, followed by plums and prunes, pears, cherries, and 




Production of fruits and nuts in the United States. (Census of 1910.) 



apricots and quinces in the order named. From 150,000,000 
to 175,000,000 bushels of apples are produced in the United 
States each year. 

Among the citrus fruits, oranges lead with a production of 
19,487,481 boxes valued at $17,566,464; then follow lemons 
with 2,770,313 boxes valued at $2,993,738, and grapefruit 
(pomeloes) with 1,189,250 boxes valued at $2,060,610. The 
production of grapefruit showed a very rapid increase between 
1900 and 1 9 10. The production of the other citrus fruits, 
limes, tangerines, mandarins, and kumquats is so far below that 
of oranges, lemons, and grapefruit as to play no significant part 
in the fruit supply, 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 331 

Olive culture in the United States is practically confined to 
California and Arizona. The crop of 1909, 16,405,000 pounds, 
was more than three times as great as that of 1899. 

The widely varying extent to which the different states con- 
tribute to the fruit and nut supply is shown by Fig. 25. 

The growing, packing, and ordinary handling of fruits is 
discussed in works on horticulture and need not be taken up here. 

There are, however, certain modern practices in the fruit 
industry which may be worthy of note because of their influence 
in systematizing the fruit supply, particularly in facilitating 
the marketing of California fruit in the eastern cities. The 
following notes on this industry are based on the account given 
in Powell's Cooperation in Agriculture: 

California oranges and lemons are handled differently from any other 
American fruit. They are staple products ripening less quickly than most 
fruits, and the distribution and marketing have been reduced to a systematic 
basis. The crop now amounts to about 50,000 carloads, or 20,000,000 boxes, 
a year. This is the product of more than 1 2,000 growers, about three fourths 
of whom are organized into cooperative associations, sixty-five per cent of 
which are federated into the California Fruit-growers' Exchange. These 
associations build packing-houses in which the fruit of the members is 
assembled, graded, packed, and made ready for shipment, these operations 
being usually done at cost prorated on the number of boxes shipped by 
each grower. On the average one packing-house suffices for about 500 
acres of orange or lemon groves. Many of the associations pick the fruit, 
and some of them prune and fumigate the trees for the members. The as- 
sociations have brands for each grade of fruit, and when a carload is ready 
for shipment, it is marketed in cooperation with the district exchange of 
which the association is a member through the agents and facilities pro- 
vided by the central exchange. The local associations have (19 13) formed 
seventeen district exchanges. Among other functions, it is the duty of the 
district exchange to act as the business medium between the local associa- 
tions and the central exchange, to order cars and see that they are placed 
by the railroads at the various packing-houses, to keep records, and to 
distribute to the local associations the information gathered by the central 
exchange. The function of this central exchange is to furnish marketing 
facilities for the district exchanges and associations at a pro rata share of 



332 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the cost. The exchange maintains its own agents in the principal markets 
in the United States and Canada, supervises these agents, gathers daily 
information through them of conditions in each market, and furnishes this 
information daily in bulletin form to the associations. The central ex- 
change also performs other functions for the protection of its members and 
the extension of the industry, but makes no attempt to regulate shipments 
or to influence prices. Each shipper has entire control of its own ship- 
ments, reserving the right of free competition with all other shippers even 
within the same organization, and the agent in the market acts directly 
under the order of the shipper. There is no uniformity of price among 
the different brands, each brand selling on its own merits. This system is 
the result of twenty years' development and has been a large factor in 
changing the status of the orange from a luxury to a staple article of diet. 

Formerly about $ 1,000,000 worth of oranges and lemons 
were lost yearly by decay during shipment to market from 
California. This loss has been practically eliminated by im- 
proved methods of picking and handling the fruit. At the 
same time the introduction of " precooling " makes it possible 
to market a fruit which is of superior quality through having 
come more nearly to maturity before picking. 

The fruit is cooled to 35° F. before shipping, loaded in cars 
having bunkers filled with ice, and shipped thus without re- 
icing to any part of the United States. The cold storage plants 
operated in connection with the pre-cooling system make possible 
also a better classification of the fruit in shipment from the 
larger accumulation of packed fruit in the storage rooms. 

The production of dried fruit is a very large industry in Cali- 
fornia, where many thousands of tons of peaches, apricots, 
prunes, and raisins are dried annually, the wholesale value of 
the combined product (at point of production) being estimated 
at about $20,000,000 a year. 

During most of the year California dried fruit is much cheaper 
(in proportion to the solids contained), even in the eastern 
markets, than is the corresponding fresh fruit of near-by origin. 
Much is also exported to European countries and sold at prices . 
within reach of those who cannot afford to buy their native 



t 



VEGETABLES, FRXHTS, AND NUTS 333 

fresh fruits. Since it was found that the sunshine and dry air 
of California make out-door drying on a large scale practicable, 
the drying of fruit has become a " primary industry " and not 
simply a means of utilizing a surplus crop. Large orchards are 
planted specifically for the production of fruit for drying, and 
very large amounts of capital (aggregating millions of dollars) 
are invested in drying establishments. It is claimed that the 
fruit which is to be dried is as carefully chosen and handled with 
as much care in every way as that which is sold fresh or canned. 
The fruit is graded so that all the fruit on a drying tray shall be 
approximately the same size. The freshly cut fruit is placed 
on trays and the trays placed in large boxes or small houses 
under which sulphur is burned. This treatment of the fruit 
with sulphur dioxide (called sulphuring) prevents darkening 
and fermentation during the subsequent air-drying and, as at 
present conducted, is said also to protect the fruit from insects. 
It is also claimed that the sulphured fruit dries more rapidly 
than the untreated. For these reasons it is feasible to dry 
larger pieces when the sulphuring process is used. 

Whether the sulphuring process shall be permitted, and if so 
what limit shall be placed upon the amount of sulphur dioxide 
which the fruit may contain, are questions not yet finally decided 
by those charged with the administration of the Food and Drugs 
Act. 

After the fruit is sufficiently dried it is piled in houses or 
placed in boxes or bins, where it goes through a " sweating " 
process during which it must be frequently turned. When dan- 
ger of further sweating is past, the fruit is packed in boxes of 
which one standard size is 6 X 9 X 15 inches holding 25 pounds 
of the dried fruit. This description applies, with varying details, 
to the drying of peaches, apricots, nectarines, apples, and pears. 
Of these peaches and apricots are dried in largest quantity. 

Prunes are handled somewhat differently, since they are 
not cut before drying. As a rule the prunes are dipped for 



334 FOOD PRODUCTS 

about a minute in boiling lye to thin and crack the skin, then 
washed to remove the lye and dried in the sun. To insure a 
sterile surface they may be dipped after drying into a boiling 
solution of prune juice, glycerin, or salt. 

Raisins are also dried by special processes ; and these differ 
too much according to locality and conditions to permit of a 
concise general description. 

Olives are grown in California both for use as fruit and for oil. 
In a study of 26 varieties of olives at the University of Cali- 
fornia it was found that the percentage of oil in the whole fruit 
varied from 11.23 to 29.34 per cent, the pits constituted from 
12.0 to 30.0 per cent of the weight of the fruit. The olives 
varied in size to such an extent that the number of olives per 
pound ranged from 36 to 398 ; usually one pound contains from 
100 to 250. The pickling of olives is a troublesome process, 
often involving much loss. Green olives are more easily pickled, 
but are much inferior to ripe olives as food. Ripe olives canned 
in dilute salt solution are being put up to some extent in Cali- 
fornia. Such a product is obviously of much greater food value 
than the usual immature olive impregnated with strong brine. 
The production of olive oil will be considered in Chapter X. 

Nut growing in California. Almonds and English walnuts 
are the nuts chiefly grown. The crop varies much from year 
to year, especially in the case of almonds, but is estimated at 
about 5,000,000 pounds of almonds and 16,000,000 pounds 
of walnuts per year. 

Almonds are gathered soon after the hulls burst and before 
the shells become discolored. Hulls are removed by special 
machinery. The nuts are then dried in the sun, after which 
they are generally exposed to fumes of burning sulphur in order 
to insure the light color of shell which the market demands. 
It is claimed that if the shell has been properly dried, the sulphur 
dioxide does not penetrate it sufficiently to affect the kernel. 

Walnuts are dried and passed over a revolving grader having 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



335 



a wire screen of one inch mesh ; those that fall through are 
graded as seconds. The shells are commonly bleached either 
by sulphur dioxide, hypochlorite, or chlorine. 

Composition of Fruits and Nuts 

The average composition of fruits (fresh, dried, and preserved) , 
as found in the American markets, and of such kinds of nuts 
as are of commercial importance, is shown in the following 
table, based chiefly on data compiled by Atwater and Bryant. 

Table 43. Average Composition of Fruits and Nuts 



Description 



fruits, berries, 

FRESH 

Apples : 

Edible portion 
As purchased 

Apricots : 

Edible portion 
As purchased 

Bananas : 

Edible portion 
As purchased . 

Blackberries . . 

Cherries : 

Edible portion 
As purchased 

Cranberries . . 

Currants . . . 

Figs, fresh . . 

Grapes : 

Edible portion 
As purchased . 



etc. 



29 



Per 

cent 



25.0 



6.0 



35-0 



5-0 



25.0 



Per 

cent 



84.6 
63-3 

85.0 
79-9 

75-3 
48.9 
86.3 

80.9 
76.8 
88.9 
85.0 
79.1 

77-4 
58.0 



Per 

cent 



5 6 



Per 

cent 



.6 

.4 
I.O 



1.6 
1.2 



Per 

cent 



14.2 
10.8 



13-4 
12.6 



22.0 

14.3 
10.9 

16.7 

15-9 

9.9 

12.8 

18.8 

19.2 
14.4 



pd O M 
Www 






Per 

cent 



Q)l-2 



{^)I.0 
C) -2 



(})4-3 



Per 
cent 






Cal. 



285 
214 

263 
247 

447 
290 
262 

354 
337 
212 

259 
368 

437 
328 



336 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 43. Average Composition of Fruits and Nuts — Continued 



Description 



fruits, berries, etc 

FRESH 

Huckleberries, edible 
portion . . . 
Lemons : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Lemon juice 
Muskmelons : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Nectarines : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Oranges : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Peaches : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 
Pears : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Persimmons, edible por 
tion . . . , 

Pineapple, edible portion 
Plums : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . . 
Pomegranates, edible 
portion . . . . 
Prunes: 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . . 



Per 
cent 



30.0 



50.0 



6.6 



27.0 



5-0 



5-8 



Per 
cent 



81.9 

89.3 
62.5 



»9-S 
44.8 

82.9 
77-4 

86.9 
63.4 

89.4 
73-3 

84.4 
76.0 

66.1 
89:3 

78.4 
74-5 

76.8 

79.6 
75-6 



Per 
cent 



i.O 

•7 






Per 
cent 



1.6 



Per 

cent 



16.6 

8.5 
5-9 

9.8 

9-3 
4.6 

15-9 
14.8 

11.6 
8.5 

9.4 

7-7 

14.1 
12.7 

31-5 
9-7 

20.1 
19.1 

19-5 

18.9 
17.4 






Per 

cent 



{^)I.I 



(')3-6 



{')2.7 



2.7 



Per 

cent 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



337 



Table 43. Average Composition of Fruits and Nuts — Continued 



Description 



FRUITS, BERRIES, ETC. 
FRESH 

Raspberries, red 
Raspberries, black 
Strawberries : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Watermelons : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 

FRUITS, ETC., DRIED 

Apples . . . 
Apricots . . . 
Citron .... 
Currants, Zante 
Dates : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Figs .... 
Prunes : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Raisins : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Raspberries . . 

FRUITS, ETC., canned; 

and jellies, pre- 
serves, ETC. 

Apples, crab, as pur- 
chased . . . . 

Apple sauce, as pur- 
chased . . . . 



15 



Per 

cent 



S-o 



594 



15.0 



Per 
cent 



85.8 
84.1 

90.4 
85.9 

92.4 
37-5 



28.1 
29.4 
19.0 
17.2 

15.4 
13.8 
18.8 

22.3 
19.0 

14.6 

I3-I 
8.1 



42.4 
61. 1 



Per 

cent 



I.O 

1-7 



1.0 
•9 



1.6 
4-7 
1.5 
2.4 

2.1 
1.9 
4-3 

2.1 

1.8 

2.6 
2.3 
7-3 



Per 
cent 



2.2 
1.0 
I-S 
1.7 

2.8 

2.5 

•3 



3-0 
1.8 



2.4 



« a « 
2 <: o 



Per 

cent 

12.6 
12.6 

7-4 
7.0 

6.7 
2.7 



66.1 
62.5 
78.1 
74.2 

78.4 
70.6 
74.2 

n-2> 
62.2 

76.1 
68.5 
80.2 



54-4 
37-2 






Per 
cent 



2.9 



ni.4 



Per 

cent 



2,0 

2.4 

•9 

4-5 

1-3 

1.2 

2.4 

2.3 
2.0 

3.4 

3-1 
2.6 



338 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Table 43. Average Composition of Fruits and Nuts — Continued 



Description 



O ^ 

.0 S 2 



t3 Sg 



>n° 



FRUITS, ETC., CANNED ; 
AND JELLIES, PRE- 
SERVES, ETC. 

Apricots, as purchased 

Apricot sauce, as pur- 
chased .... 

Blackberries, as pur- 
chased .... 

Blueberries, canned 

Cherries, as purchased 

Cherry jelly : 

ist quaUty, as pur- 
chased .... 
2d quality, as pur- 
chased .... 

Figs, stewed, as pur- 
chased .... 

Grape butter, as pur- 
chased .... 

Marmalade (orange 
peel), as purchased 

Peaches, as purchased 

Pears, as purchased 

Pineapples, as pur- 
chased .... 

Prune sauce, as pur- 
chased .... 

Strawberries, stewed, as 
purchased . . . 

Tomato preserves, as 
purchased . . . 

NUTS 

Almonds : 

Edible portion . . 
As purchased . . 



Per 
cent 



4S-0 



Per 

cent 



81.4 
45-2 

40.0 
85.6 

77.2 

21.0 

38.4 

56.5 

36.7 

14-5 
88.1 
81. 1 

61.8 

76.6 

74.8 

40.9 



4.8 
2.7 



Per 
cent 



•9 

1.9 

.8 

.6 

I.I 



1.2 
1.2 



21.0 
ii-S 



Per 
cent 



1-3 



2.1 

.6 
.1 



54-9 
30.2 



Per 

cent 



17-3 
48.8 

56.4 
12.8 
21. 1 

77.2 

59.8 

40.9 

58.S 

84.S 
10.8 
18.0 

36.4 

22.3 

24.0 

57-6 



17.3 
9-5 



Per 

cent 



Per 

cent 



.4 



•7 

.6 

I.I 

3-5 

•3 
.3 
.3 

.7 

.5 

•5 

.7 



2.0 
I.I 



Cal. 



330 
973 

1124 
268 
407 



1421 

1107 

776 

1087 

1548 
213 
344 

696 

417 

448 

1062 



2940 
161S 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



339 



Table 43. Average Composition of Fruits and Nuts — Continued 



Description 



NUTS 

Beechnuts : 

Edible portion . . 

As purchased . . 
Brazil nuts {Bertholletia 
excelsa) : 

Edible portion . , 

As purchased . . . 
Butternuts (Juglans 
cinerea) : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Chestnuts, fresh : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Chestnuts, dried : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . . 
Coconuts : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Coconut without milk, 

as purchased 
Coconut milk, as pur- 
chased . . . 
Coconut, prepared 
Filberts : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Hickory nuts : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 
Lichi nuts : 

Edible portion 

As purchased . 



Per 
cent 



40.8 

49.6 

86.4 

16.0 

24,0 

48.8 
37-3 



52.1 
62.2 
41.6 



Per 

cent 



4.0 
2-3 



2.6 



4.4 
.6 

45-0 
37.8 

5-9 
4-5 

14.1 
7.2 

8.9 

92.7 
3-5 

3-7 
1.8 

3-7 
1.4 

17.9 
10.5 



Per 

cent 



21.9 
13.0 



17.0 
8.6 



27.9 
3.8 

6.2 

5-2 

10.7 
8.1 

5-7 
2.9 

3-6 

•4 
6.3 

15-6 

7-5 

15-4 
5.8 

2.9 
1-7 



Per 

cent 



57-4 
34-0 



66.8 
33-7 



61.2 
8.3 

5-4 
4-5 

7.0 
5-3 

50.6 
25-9 

31-7 

1-5 
57-4 

65-3 
31-3 

67.4 
25.5 

.2 
.1 



a! s « 
U w « 

^ < o 

Per 
cent 



13.2 
7.8 



7.0 
3-5 



3-5 

•S 

42.1 
35-4 

74.2 
56.4 

27.9 
14-3 

17.5 

4.6 
31-5 

13.0 
6.2 

11.4 
4.3 

77-5 
45-2 






Per 
cent 



2.7 



Per 

cent 



3-5 
2.1 



3-9 
2.0 



2.9 
•4 

1-3 
I.I 

2.2 
1.7 

1.7 
•9 



.8 
1-3 

2.4 
I.I 



i'5 
•9 



340 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 43. Average Composition of Fruits and Nuts — Continued 



Description 



NUTS 

Peanuts : 

Edible portion . . 
As purchased . . . 
Peanut butter, as pur- 
chased . . . . 
Pecans, unpolished : 
Edible portion , , 
As purchased . . 
Pine nuts : 
Pignolias, edible por- 
tion 

Piniones (Pinus mo- 
nophylla) : 
Edible portion 
As purchased . . 
Pinon {Pinus edulis) : 
Edible portion 
As purchased , . 
Sabine pine nut (Pi- 
. nus sahiniana) : 
Edible portion 
As purchased . . 
Pistachios : 

First quality, shelled, 
edible portion . . 
Second quality, 
shelled, edible por- 
tion 

Walnuts, California : 
Edible portion . . 
As purchased . . . 



og 



Per 

cent 



24.5 



46.3 



41.7 



40.6 



77.0 



73-1 



Per 

cent 



9.2 
6.9 



2.7 
1-5 



6.4 



3-8 
2.2 

3-4 
2,0 



5-1 
1.2 



4.2 



4-3 



2-5 

•7 



Per 

cent 



25.8 
19-5 

29-3 

9.6 
5-1 



33-9 



6.5 
3-8 

14.6 
8.7 



28.1 
6.5 



22.3 



18.4 
4.9 



ii 

ai ti Pi 
<: -^ w 

U M « 

m 



Per 

cent 



38.6 
29.1 

46.5 

70.5 
37.9 



49.4 



60.7 
35-4 

61.9 
36.8 



53-7 
12.3 



54-0 



54-9 

64.4 
17-3 



Per 
cent 



24.4 
18.5 

17.1 

iS-3 
8.2 



6.9 

26.2 
15-3 

17-3 
10.2 



8.4 
1.9 



16.3 



14.9 



13.0 
3-5 



3 2 1" 

Qi w «<: 



Per 
cent 



2.5 



1.4 



Per 
cent 



2.0 
1.5 

1.9 
i.o 



3-4 



2.8 
1.6 



2.8 
1-7 



4-7 
I.I 



3-2 



3-0 

1-7 
•5 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



341 



Table 43. Average Composition of Fruits and Nuts — Continued 



Description- 


0- 

11 


Pi 


u 

< 


H 
PL, 


a 


11- 

III 


Hi 

l°2 


< 


Jl 

IS 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cai. 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


nuts 




















Walnuts, California, 




















black : 




















Edible portion . . 


2 


— 


2.5 


27.6 


56.3 


II. 7 


1-7 


1.9 


3012 


As purchased . . . 


— 


74.1 


.6 


7.2 


14.6 


3-0 




•5 


781 


Walnuts, California, 




















soft shell : 




















Edible portion . . 


4 


— 


2.5 


16.6 


63-4 


16.I 


2.6 


1.4 


3182 


As purchased . . . 


— 


58.1 


T.O 


6.9 


26.6 


6.8 


' 


.6 


1335 



Chemical changes in the ripening of fruits. During ripening 
many fruits undergo distinct changes in composition, and these 
changes may continue after the gathering of the fruit. In 
general the ripening involves a decr ease in acid and starch with 
an increase in sugar content. Oxidation processes also go on 
in the fruit with the development of " ethereal " substances 
(probably esters) and evolution of carbon dioxide. 

Quite elaborate investigations of the changes which fruits 
undergo during ripening have been carried on by Bigelow and 
by Langworthy and their associates, in the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture. With winter apples, for example, 
it was found that the starch content reaches its maximum about 
midsummer and then decreases and finally disappears almost 
entirely. This change is strikingly shown by treating the cut 
surface of specimen apples with iodine, which colors starch deep 
blue. The decreasing depth of color with decreasing starch 



342 



FOOD PRODUCTS 




VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 343 

content as the apple approaches maturity is readily seen in 
Fig. 26. The acid content of the apples was found to decrease 
from early summer until maturity, while the sugar content 
increases. 

In bananas also there is a marked conversion of starch into 
sugar as the fruit ripens. 

The peach, on the other hand, contains no appreciable amount 
of starch at any time, but shows a steady increase in sugar content 
as it approaches maturity. 

In fruits generally there is an apparent decrease of the pectin 
substances as the fruit ripens, as indicated by the fact that under- 
ripe fruit yields firmer jelly. 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Fruits and Nuts 

In dietary studies and digestion experiments fruits and nuts 
are often considered together, largely because a large proportion 
of the accurately recorded data has been gathered by Jaflfe 
in connection with his investigations upon California fruitarians 
whose diet is one of fruits and nuts. In 28 digestion experi- 
ments with 2 men and i woman upon fruit and nut diet the 
average coefficients of digestibility were: for protein, 90 per 
cent ; for fat, 85 per cent ; for carbohydrate, 95 per cent. 

Apparently the fruit and nut diet was as readily and almost 
as completely digested as would be expected of ordinary mixed 
diet. 

The fact that consistent fruitarians, both adults and children, 
maintain a well-nourished condition on diets of fruits and nuts 
which are of moderate total food value and low protein content 
is strong evidence that the nutrients of the fruits and nuts must 
be well digested and also efficiently utilized in metabolism. 
This is in harmony both with the belief that man is descended 
from ancestors whose chief food was fruit and nuts, and with 
the results of modern investigations of the chemical structure of 
the nut proteins. 



344 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



The nut proteins have not been analyzed extensively, but 
Osborne and his associates report the hydrolysis of two as follows. 
Excelsin is the principal protein of Brazil nuts, and amandin 
of almonds. 



Table 44. Percentages of Amino Acros from Nut Proteins 
(Osborne) 



Glycin . 
Alanin . . . 
Valin . . . 
Leucin . 
Phenylalanin . 
Tyrosin . . 
Prolin . . . 
Oxyprolin . 
Aspartic acid . 
Glutamic acid , 
Arginin . . , 
Lysin 
Histidin 
Tryptophan 
Ammonia . . 
Summation 



Amandin 
(Almonds) 



0.51 
1.40 
0.16 
4-45 
2.53 
1. 12 
2.44 

5-42 
23.14 
11.85 

0.70 

1.58 
present 

3-70 



59.00 



Excelsin 
(Brazil Nuts) 



0.6 

2-3 

1-5 

8.7 

3-5 

3-1 

3.6 

? 

3.8 

12.9 

16.1 

1.6 

2-5 

present 
1.8 



62.0 



Further and more conclusive evidence of the high food value 
of at least one of the nut proteins is found in the recent experi- 
ments of Osborne and Mendel in which rats are fed on known 
mixtures of isolated food substances. Excelsin of the Brazil 
nut has been shown in these experiments to be one of the proteins 
which is in itself ample for all the requirements of protein 
metabolism in normal nutrition. Not only does excelsin 
as a sole protein food maintain protein equilibrium, but young 
animals make a normal growth and development upon diets 
in which excelsin is the only nitrogenous food. 

It is plain that fruits and nuts are to be regarded as staple 



I 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



345 



articles of food and by no means as simply relishes or accessories. 
By a consideration of composition and cost it will also be found 
that many of the fruits and nuts are quite economical as com- 
pared with many other staple foods. 

Place of Nuts in the Diet 

From the tables of composition given above it is apparent 
that nuts vary considerably in composition, some (as chestnuts) 
being starchy, others (as coconuts and walnuts) being especially 
rich in fat, while many (as almonds, Brazil nuts, butternuts, and 
peanuts) are rich in both protein and fat. 

Nuts in general, being rich in both protein and fat, are com- 
parable with meats as food and may be used interchangeably 
with meat in the diet ; in fact they are being so used to an in- 
creasing extent. With the constant tendency toward higher 
cost of meat, which must be anticipated for reasons already ex- 
plained (page 214), and with growing knowledge of nut culture, 
we may look for a much larger use of nuts as " meat substitutes ^ " 
in the future. Even at present prices the economy of nuts both 
as sources of energy and of protein will doubtless be surprising 
to many who have not previously compared the composition 
and cost of typical articles of these groups. 

Thus 10 cents spent for beefsteak at 25 cents per pound will 
buy about 400 Calories with about 30 grams of protein, while 
the same amount spent for shelled almonds at 50 cents a pound 
will buy about 600 Calories with about 25 grams of protein; 
if spent for peanuts at 10 cents a pound it would buy about 1800 
Calories with 90 grams of protein ; or spent for peanut butter 
at T,$ cents a pound (25 cents for a jar containing 12 ounces net) 
the same amount would buy 750 Calories with 35 grams of 
protein. 

1 To speak of nuts as " meat substitute " is natural under present conditions and 
reflects the prominence which has been given to meat and the casual way in which nuts 
have been regarded for some generations. Looking at the matter in evolutionary 
perspective it might be more logical to speak of meats as "nut substitute" instead. 



346 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Thus not only the roasted peanuts but the best grade of 
almonds or of carefully prepared peanut butter is plainly' a 
much more economical food than the steak, even when the latter 
is not charged with the cost of preparing it for the table. 

The reader may extend the comparison to other nuts at the 
prices found in the local markets. 

The Place of Fruits and Vegetables in the Diet 

Fruits and vegetables vary too much in their chemical com- 
position and other properties to permit many broad generaliza- 
tions in regard to their place in the diet. 

Potatoes, sweet potatoes, and bananas are easily comparable 
with each other, but difficult to compare in many respects 
with celery, tomatoes, or grapefruit. 

Differences in food value are due largely to the wide variations 
in water content, but also to the different quantitative pro- 
portions which the nutrients bear to each other, and in some 
instances to the presence of characteristic substances. 

Considered as sources of energy potatoes and dry beans and 
peas are at ordinary prices about as economical as grain prod- 
ucts and much more economical than the meats; while the 
dried fruits are comparable in economy as fuel with milk, 
butter, and the fatter and cheaper kinds of meat. Even those 
fruits and green vegetables which are eaten for flavor with 
little thought of food value and which are often thought of as 
luxuries because of their high water content will often be found 
to furnish energy at no greater cost than many of the familiar 
cuts of meat when account is taken of the extent to which the fat 
of the meat is usually rejected or lost in cooking or at the table. 

That the dry legumes are both absolutely and relatively 
rich in protein is a fact so well recognized as not to require 
elaboration here. Less generally realized is the fact that while 
the green vegetables contain too much water to show high 
absolute values or percentages by weight of protein, yet they 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



347 



show as much or more of the total food value in the form of 
protein as is customary or desirable in ordinary dietaries. In 
fruits, on the other hand, the relative proportion as well as the 
absolute amount of protein is usually low. The proportion of 
energy furnished by protein, as well as numerous other data, 
may be found for all the common articles of food in the table 
of loo-Calorie portions at the back of this book (Appendix E). 

Taking the fruits and vegetables as a whole, while often more 
economical as sources of energy and protein than is generally 
considered, yet they are probably even more significant for 
their ash constituents than for the organic nutrients which they 
contain. 

The percentages of individual ash constituents in the edible 
portion of each of the important fruits and vegetables (in so 
far as trustworthy analyses are available) are given in the 
accompanying table. 

Table 45, Ash Constituents of Fruits and Vegetables in Per- 
centage OF THE Edible Portion 

(Compiled from various sources) 



Food 


CaO ] 


MgO 


K2O 


Na20 


P2O5 


CI 


s 


Fe 


Apples .... 


.014 


014 


•15 


.02 


•03 


.004 


.COS 


.0003 


Apricots . . 






.018 


018 


.28 


.06 


.06 


.003 


•013 




Asparagus . 






.04 


02 


.20 


.01 


.09 


.04 


.04 


.0010 


Bananas . 






.01 


04 


•SO 


.02 


•055 


.20 


.013 


.0006 


Beans, dried 






.22 


25 


1.40 


.26 


1. 14 


•03 


.22 


.0070 


lima, dried 






.10 


31 


2.1 


'33 


•77 


.025 


.16 


.0070 


lima, fresh 






.04 


II 


•7 


.12 


.27 


.009 


.06 


.0025 


string . '. 






•075 


043 


.28 


•03 


.12 


.018 


.04 


.0016 


Beets . . . 






•03 


033 


•45 


.10 


.09 


.04 


:OI5 


.0006 


Blackberries 






.08 


03 s 


.20 




.08 




.01 




Blueberries . 






•045 


015 


.05 




.02 








Breadfruit . 






.12 


01 


.28 


.04 


.16 


.10 






Cabbage . . 






.068 


026 


•45 


•OS 


.09 


•03 


.07 


.0011 


Carrots . . 






.077 


034 


•35 


•13 


.10 


.036 


.022 


'.0008 


Cauliflower . 






•17 


02 


.27 


.10 


.14 


•05 


.085 





348 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 45. Ash Constituents of Fruits and Vegetables in Per- 
centage OF the Edible Portion — Continued 



Food 


CaO 


MgO 


K2O 


NazO 


P205 


CI 


s 


Fe 


Celery .... 


.10 


.04 


•37 


.11 


.10 


•17 


•025 


.0005 


Chard .... 


.22 


.11 


.46 


.12 


.09 


.04 


.12 




Cherries .... 


.03 


.027 


.26 


•03 


•07 


.01 


.01 


.0005 


Cherry juice 


.025 


.02 


•IS 


.02 


•03 


.004 


.006 




Chicory .... 


•OS 


•03 


.27 


.11 


.09 


.06 






Chives .... 


.20 


•OS 


■33 


.04 • 


.20 


.04 






Citron .... 


•17 


•03 


•25 


.02 


.08 


.01 


.02 




Coconut pulp . 


.09 


.10 


•77 


.10 


•38 


•25 


•03 




Corn, sweet, dried 


•03 


.20 


•S 


.2 


.8 


•05 


.16 


.0029 


sweet, fresh . 


.008 


•OSS 


.137 


•OS 


.22 


.014 


.044 


.0008 


Cranberries . 


.024 


.011 


.09 


.013 


•03 


•005 


.008 


.0006 


Cucumbers . . . 


.022 


.CIS 


•17 


.015 


.08 


•03 


.022 




Currants, fresh . 


•OS 


.04 


•2S 


.02 


.10 


.01 


.01 


.0005 


Zante .... 


.14 


.08 


I.O 


.1 


•3 


.06 


.06 




Currant juice . . 


•03 


.02 


.2 




•OS 




•005 




Dandelion greens . 
















.0027 


Dates .... 


.10 


•13 






.12 


•32 


.066 


•003 


Endive .... 


.14 


.02 


•4S 


•IS 


.10 




•03 




Figs, fresh . 


.074 


.036 


•36s 


.016 


.082 


.014 




.0008 


dried .... 


.299 


.I4S 


1.478 


.064 


•332 


•056 


.056 


.0032 


Gooseberries . . 


•OS 


.02 


.21 


•03 


.6S 


.01 






Grapefruit . 


•03 


.02 


•17 




.04 


.01 


.01 


.0004 


Grapes .... 


.024 


.014 


•2S 


•03 


.12 


.01 


.024 


.0013 


Grape juice (and 


















must) .... 


.021 


.016 


.20 


.01 


.04 


.01 


.012 




Guava .... 


.02 


•013 


.46 




•07 


•OS 






Horseradish 


•13 


•06s 


.S6 


.08 


.1 


.02 


.18 




Huckleberries . 


•03s 


•025 






•07 


.02 


•013 


.0011 


Leeks .... 


.08 


.02 


.24 


.11 


•IS 


•03 


.08 




Lemons .... 


•05 


.01 


.21 


.01 


.02 


.01 


.012 


.0006 


Lemon juice 


•033 


.01 


•17 


.01 


•025 


.01 


007 




Lemon, sweet . 


.04 


.01 


■53 




.10 


.01 






Lentils .... 


•IS 


•17 


1.05 


.08 


1.0 


•05 


.28 


.0086 


Lettuce .... 


•OS 


.01 


.42 


.04 


.09 


.06 


.014 


.001 


Limes ... 


.08 


.02 


.42 




.08 


.04 


.003 




Mamey .... 


.02 


.02 


.42 




.06 


.14 






Mango .... 


o^3 


.01 


.28 




.04 


.02 


.013 




Muskmelons . . 


.024 


.020 


•283 


.082 


•03s 


.041 


.014 


.0003 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



349 



Table 45. Ash Constituents of Fruits and Vegetables in Per- 
centage OF THE Edible Portion — Continued 



Food 


CaO 


MgO 


K2O 


Na20 


P2O5 


CI 


s 


Fe 


Olives .... 


•17 


.01 


1.8 


•17 


•03 


.01 


.025 


.0029 


Onions . . . 




.06 


•03 


•23 


.02 


.12 


.02 


.06 


.0005 


Oranges . . 




.06 


.02 


.22 


.01 


•05 


.01 


.013 


.0003 


Orange juice . 




•05 


.02 


.22 


.01 


•03 


.01 


.008 




Paprika . . . 




•32 


.27 


2.5 


.24 


.78 


•15 


•015 




Parsnips . . . 




.09 


.07 


.70 


.01 


.19 


•03 


•057 




Peaches . . . 




.01 


.02 


•25 


.02 


.047 


.01 


.01 


.0003 


Pears. . . . 




.021 


.019 


.16 


•03 


.06 


•003 


.012 


.0003 


Peas, dried . . 




.14 


.24 


1.06 


.16 


.91 


.04 


•23 


.0056 


fresh . . . 




.04 


.07 


•30 


.04 


.26 


.01 


.06 


.0016 


cowpeas, dried 




.18 


.21 


1. 01 


.40 


1. 00 


.02 






Persimmons . . 




•03 


.015 


•35 


.02 


•05 


.01 


.60s 




Pineapple . . 




.02 


.02 


•38 


.02 


.06 


•05 


.009 


.0005 


juice . . 












.02 


•05 


.007 




Plums . . . 




.025 


.02 


•25 


•03 


•055 


.01 


.007 


.0005 


Potatoes . . . 




.016 


.036 


•53 


.025 


.140 


•03 


•03 


•0013 


sweet . . 




.025 


.02 


•47 


.06 


.09 


.12 


.02 


.GOGS 


Prunes, dried . 




.06 


.08 


1.2 


.1 


•25 


.01 


•03 


.0029 


Pumpkins . . 




•03 


.015 


.08 


.08 


.11 


.01 


.02 




Quince juice 








.18 




•035 








Radishes . . . 




•05 


.02 


•17 


.11 


.09 


•05 


•OS 


.0006 


Raisins . . 




.08 


•15 


I.O 


.19 


•29 


.07 


.06 


.005 


Raspberries . . 




.07 


.04 


.21 




.12 




.017 




Raspberry juice 




•03 


•03 


•17 


.01 


•03 


.01 


.009 




Rhubarb . . . 




.06 


.02 


•39 


•03 


.07 


•035 


.013 




Rutabagas . . 




.1 


•03 


.48 


.11 


•13 


.06 


.08 




Salsify . . . 












.12 




.04 




Sapota . . . 




.04 


.02 


.22 




.02 


.09 


.01 




Spinach . . . 




.09 


.08 


•94 


.20 


•13 


.02 


.041 


.0032 


Squash . , . 




.02 


.01 


•17 


.002 


•05 


.02 


.014 


.0008 


Strawberries 




.05 


•03 


.18 


.07 


.064 


.01 




.0009 


Tamarinds . . 




.01 


•03 






•15 


.01 


.01 




Tomatoes . . 




.020 


.017 


•35 


.01 


•059 


•03 


.02 


.0004 


Tomato juice . 




.01 


.017 


•35 


.02 


•034 


•05 


,012 




Turnips . . . 




.089 


.028 


.40 


.08 


.117 


.04 


•07 


.0005 


Turnip tops 




.48 


•OS 


•37 


.11 


.11 


•17 


•07 




Water cress 




.26 


•05 






.07 








Watermelon 




.02 


.02 


.09 


.01 


.02 


.01 


.007 





350 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Comparison of one food with another from data given in such 
a table as this may give misleading impressions unless it be 
constantly kept in mind that some of the materials are quite 
dry while others are perhaps nine tenths water and only one 
tenth dry matter and further that the dry matter is of higher 
food value in some cases than in others. 

For this reason the comparison of ash constituents on the 
basis of the loo-Calorie portion rather than of percentage by 
weight may be found more satisfactory. The table of loo- 
Calorie portions given at the back of this book shows the amount 
of calcium, phosphorus, and iron. Taking from that table the 
weight in grams of the loo-Calorie portion of any food material, 
the weight of any other ash constituent may readily be calcu- 
lated from the percentage as shown in the table here given.^ 

As sources of iron the green vegetables are perhaps the most 
important of all our foods, while other vegetables and many 
fruits are also very important sources of food-iron. This subject 
can be but briefly mentioned here as it has been quite fully 
discussed elsewhere.^ 

. Since there has been among dietitians of the older school a 
tendency to regard meats as the main source of food-iron, a 
brief comparison of meats with vegetables and fruits from this 
standpoint may be desirable. 

In the average of 15 American dietary studies the cost of 
meat and fish was 35 per cent of the total expenditure for food 
and the cost of vegetables and fruits was 18 per cent ; the 
former furnished 35 per cent of the total iron and the latter 
27 per cent. Thus in proportion to cost the fruits and vegetables 
furnished much more iron than the meats and fish. 

The question, however, is one of kind as well as amount. 
The iron in meat is chiefly due to the blood remaining in the 

1 A table showing full ash analyses calculated to the loo-Calorie portion is given 
in the Appendix to Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 

2 Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, Chapter IX. 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 351 

small blood vessels with which the meat is permeated. The 
iron compounds of blood do not yield readily to the digestive 
ferments as do those of vegetables and fruits, so that the iron 
of the latter is better absorbed and becomes more completely 
available for nutrition than the iron of the meats. 

Moreover the use of too much meat (especially by persons* 
of sedentary habits or indoor occupation) tends toward ex-1 
cessive intestinal putrefaction with resulting absorption ofl 
putrefactive products which are detrimental to the red blood 
cells and probably in other ways interfere with the economy of 
iron in the body. Fruits, and vegetables, on the other hand, have 
the opposite property and their use in liberal quantities tends to 
prevent or correct intestinal putrefaction, both by stimulating 
peristalsis and by furnishing a medium less favorable to the 
activities of the putrefactive bacteria. Herter showed that in 
a large proportion of anaemic people the anaemia is closely corre- 
lated with excessive intestinal putrefaction and that improved 
condition of the blood followed quickly upon the establishment 
of a better intestinal hygiene. Interesting in this connection \ 
is Herter's observation that anaemia is much more common I 
among the carnivorous than among the herbivorous animals, ' 
and that the feces of carnivora are much more likely to show 
putrefactive bacteria of the actively injurious types such as B. 
welchii {B. aero genes capsulatus). 

The mild laxative tendency of many fruits and vegetables! 
depends in part upon the fact that they furnish to the digestive I 
tract a sufficiently bulky residue (largely of cellulose ^nd related 
substances) to stimulate mechanically and render effective the 
peristaltic action, and in part upon the occurrence in many fruits 
and some vegetables of substances which, aside from the mechani- 
cal considerations, exert a mild laxative effect. Sometimes the 
raw fruit is found to be more laxative than the same fruit when 
thoroughly cooked. In some cases the astringent substances in 
the skin may counteract the laxative effect of the raw flesh of the 



352 FOOD PRODUCTS 

fruit ; thus some persons find the flesh of raw (or even stewed) 
apples too laxative, but experience no inconvenience when the 
skin of the apple is eaten with the flesh and the whole is thoroughly 
chewed. 

Another important effect of eating fruit is the introduction 
of an acid substance into the digestive tract which later yields 
an alkaline or basic substance in the blood and tissues. This' 
acidity of fruits is largely due, not to free acids, but to acid potas- 
siuiusalts, of which the acid potassium tartrate (cream of tartar) 
of grapes may serve as an example. 

It will be noted that in all the fruits and vegetables the per- 
centage of potassium (expressed as K2O in the table) is high 
either absolutely or as compared with the other ash constituents 
in the same food. Like the calcium, magnesium, and sodium, 
the potassium exists in the foods in part as neutral inorganic 
salts. In many cases, however, it exists to an even larger 
extent in combination with organic acids or other organic 
matter. When the food is burned, either in the air or in the body, 
the organic radicles are oxidized to carbon dioxide and water 
and so much of the potassium as was combined with organic 
matter remains as a carbonate. The presence of potassium 
carbonate (potash) in wood ashes is familiar to every one and 
accounts for the fact that the wood ashes are alkaline or basic. 
Similarly those parts of plants which are used for food in the 
form of fruits and vegetables yield, on burning, a basic or alkaline 
ash due to the fact that the base-forming elements predominate 
over the acid-forming elements in these foods, chiefly because 
of the presence of the organic potassium compounds just men- 
tioned. The surplus of base-forming elements which remains 
as carbonate and makes the ash distinctly alkaline when the 
food is burned at a high temperature in the air will, when the 
material is oxidized in the body, remain as bicarbonate, which 
is a practically neutral substance, yet capable of neutralizing 
acids such as the sulphuric acid produced in the protein 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



353 



metabolism. Thus the predominance of base-forming elements 
among the ash constituents of fruits and vegetables is of 
great value to the body in facilitating the maintenance of the 
normal neutrality of the blood and tissues. 

To obtain a quantitative expression of the extent to which 
either the acid-forming or the base-forming elements predomi- 
nate, calculate from the amounts of acid-forming elements the 
volume of normal acid which these elements could yield, and 
similarly the volume of normal alkali from the base-forming 
elements. The excess of acid or alkali, as the case may be, 
expressed in cubic centimeters of normal solution, affords a con- 
venient expression of the acid-forming or base-forming tendency 
of the food, or as sometimes called its " potential acidity " or 
" potential alkalinity." 

Table 46 shows the potential alkalinity or predominance of 
base-forming elements — expressed in the units already explained 
— (i) in each 100 grams of edible portion of the fruit or vegetable, 
(2) in the loo-Calorie portion, (3) in one pound of the material 
as purchased. 

Table 46. "Potential Alkalinity" or "Excess of Base-forming 
Elements" in Various Fruits and Vegetables 



Food Material 



Apples . . . 
Apricots ... 

Asparagus . . 

Bananas . . .^ 
Beans, dried 

lima, dried . 
fresh 

string, fresh . 
Beet, fresh . 

Cabbage . . . , 
Carrots ... 

Cauliflower . . 

Celery . . . 

2 A 



Per 100 GM. 
Edible Portion 



3-7 

6.8 

.8 

5.6 

18. 

41.6 

14. 

5-4 
10.9 

6. 
10.8 

5-3 
7.8 



Per 100 Cal. 



6. 
10.9 

3-6 

5-6 

5- 
12. 
11.6 
12.9 
23.6 
18. 
239 
17-5 
42.1 



Per Pound as 
Purchased 



12.8 

26.9 

3-6 

16.2 

78.3 

190.3 

29. 

22.7 

39-4 
21.8 
37-8 
24-3 
28.6 



354 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 46. "Potential Alkalinity" or "Excess of Base-forming 
Elements" in Various Fruits and Vegetables — Continued 



Food Material 


Per 100 GM. 
Edible Portion 


Per 100 Cal. 


Per Pound as 
Purchased 


Chard 


15-8 


41. 1 


69.7 


Cherry juice 








4.4 






Citron . . . 








9.8 


3- 


44.6 


Cranberries . . 








1.8 


3-8 


8.6 


Cucumbers, fresh 








7-9 


45-5 


30.9 


Dates . . . 








II.O 


3-2 


45-3 


Grapes . . . 








2.7 


2.8 


9.2 


Grape juice . . 








3-9 


4- 


18.1 


Lemons . . . 








S-5 


12.3 


27.4 


Lemon juice 








4.1 


10.7 


19.0 


Lettuce . . .. 








7-4 


38.7 


27.9 


Mushrooms . . 








4- 


9- 


1.8 


Muskmelons 








7-5 


18.8 


16.6 


Olives ... 








47.2 


18.9 


188. 1 


Onions . . . 








1-5 


3-1 


6.2 


Oranges . . . 








S-6 


10.9 


18.4 


Orange juice 








4-S 


14-3 


28. 


Parsnips . . . 








II. 9 


18.1 


42.7 


Peas, fresh . . 








1-3 


1-3 


3-3 


dried . . . 








5- 


1.4 


22.6 


Peaches, fresh . 








5- 


12.2 


15.6 


Pears, fresh . . 








3-6 


5-6 


14.3 


Pineapple, fresh 








6.8 


15-7 


30.8 


Plums . . . 








6.2 


7-3 


26.5 


Potatoes .... 








7. 


8.6 


26. 


Potatoes, sweet 








6.7 


5-4 


24.1 


Prunes, dried . . 








25- 


8. 


92.8 


Pumpkins . . . 








i-S 


5-7 


3-4 


Radishes .... 








2.9 


9.8 


8.9 


Raisins .... 








23.7 


6.9 


97- 


Raspberry juice 








4.9 






Rhubarb . . . 








8.6 


37-4 


23.6 


Rutabagas . , 








8.5 


29.8 




Spinach . . . 








27. 


113- 


122. 


Tomato juice . . 








6.2 




28.1 


Tomatoes . . . 








5-6 


24-S 


25-5 


Turnips .... 








2.7 


6.8 


25- 


Watermelon . . 








2.7 


8.9 


5-1 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 355 

From what has been said it is to be expected that the eating 
of vegetables and fruits will diminish the acidity of the urine. 
This has been tested by Blatherwick, who finds in all of his ex 
periments with vegetables and most of those with fruits that 
the urinary acidity is diminished as expected, showing that the 
potential alkalinity had actually been utilized in the neutraliza- 
tion of acid in the body ; but with some fruits there may be an 
incomplete oxidation of the fruit-acid in the system and so 
the potential alkalinity may not be fully realized. 

It should be clearly understood that an excess of base-forming 
elements in the food is not in any sense objectionable, since the 
oxidation processes in the body are constantly yielding such 
large quantities of carbonic acid that any surplus of base- 
forming elements goes to form bicarbonates, which do not disturb 
the neutrality, but rather act as a reserve material for its main- 
tenance. 

The balance of acids and bases per loo-Calorie portion of all 
the common articles of food is shown in the table at the back 
of this book. In planning dietaries by the convenient method 
of building them up from loo-Calorie portions it will be easy with 
the data there given to find the " balance of acids and bases " 
for the dietary as a whole. In the writer's opinion it is dis- 
tinctly preferable that the balance fall on the basic side. If an 
excess of acid-forming elements be permitted, it would seem 
that the excess should not exceed 25 units (the equivalent of 
25 cc. of normal acid) per man per day, which is about the 
quantity neutralizable by the amount of ammonia to be ex- 
pected in a day's urine under favorable conditions. 

Since meats and eggs show a distinct excess of the acid-form- 
ing elements, while in vegetables and fruits the base-forming 
elements predominate, it follows that the greater the amount of 
meat, fish, and eggs eaten the more important is it that fruits 
and vegetables be also used liberally. A loo-Calorie portion of 
potato furnishes just about the amount of base to neutralize 



356 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the acid arising from the metabolism of a loo-Calorie portion 
of steak. To serve a 200-Calorie portion of steak with only 
a loo-Calorie portion of potato is out of proportion. The grain 
products have an excess of acid-forming elements, not large 
enough to be objectionable when the diet is otherwise well 
balanced, but which may result in the diet as a whole becoming 
too strongly acid-forming if grain products are allowed to take 
the place of vegetables. Rice and potatoes are sometimes con- 
sidered interchangeable, but from this standpoint cannot be so 
considered. When rice instead of potato is served with meat, 
not only is the excess acid from the meat left unprovided for, but 
more acid is added by the rice. Hence, even though the rice 
furnishes as much energy and protein, it cannot properly be 
regarded as of fully equal food value with the potato which it 
displaces. 

In order to avoid too great an excess of acid in cases in which 
no dietary calculations are made, it is well to allow at least as 
much money for the purchase of vegetables, fruits, and milk (in 
which base-forming elements predominate) as for the purchase 
of meats, fish, and eggs (all of which are distinctly acid-forming) . 

While not yet fully understood, the vitamine content seems 
likely to prove a factor of some importance in the role of fruits 
and vegetables in the diet. The " antiscorbutic property " 
of these foods is well recognized. The evidence has seemed to 
favor the view that this property is chiefly due to the predomi- 
nance of base-forming ash constituents,^ but recent work indi- 
cates that vitamines must also be taken into account in this 
connection. 

Some of the advantages of fruits and vegetables as food can- 
not be expressed in quantitative terms, but even the factors 
which can be so expressed show that these foods, even when 
bought, as is usual, with reference to flavor rather than food 
value, are more economical than is generally supposed. 

1 Compare Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, pp. 293-294. 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 



357 



Thus the data of 15 American dietary studies supposed to be 
representative of ordinary food habits in their respective locaUties 
show the following average results when the cost of, and returns 
from, the fruits and vegetables, the vegetables alone, and the 
potatoes alone, are calculated in percentage of the tptal food 
(Table 47). 

Table 47. Economy of Fruits and Vegetables in the Diet 



In Fifteen American 
Dietaries 



Fruits and Vegetables 
Vegetables .... 
Potatoes .... 



Per Cent 

OF Total 

Cost 



18.7 

II. I 

3-9 



Per Cent 
of Total 
Calories 



11.8 
9.0 

5-3 



Per Cent 
OF Total 
Protein 



10.6 
9.8 
4.2 



Per Cent 
OF Total 
Phosphorus 



18.7 

18.0 

8.7 



Per Cent 

of Total 

Iron 



27-3 
20.6 

13-5 



If we take account of the fact that we must purchase phos- 
phorus and iron compounds as well as protein and energy in 
the food, we see that the money spent for fruits and vegetables 
yielded its proportionate return in nutritive value if not in 
Calories and protein. Potatoes, it will be seen, were very econom- 
ical sources of protein and energy as well as of ash constituents. 

In any case the percentages of nutrients give an inadequate 
expression of the true value of fruits and vegetables as food. 
In fact the low protein, fat, and carbohydrate content which 
causes some of the fruits and green vegetables to be regarded 
merely as luxuries may at times be an actual advantage in ena- 
bling one to balance a dietary by adding these foods without 
either making protein or energy intake excessive or necessitating 
a restriction of the consumption of foods already in use. 

Unquestionably the more general and more liberal use of 
fruits and vegetables is to be encouraged. Where the cost of 
food must be strictly limited, the dietary may often be improved 
by diminishing the expenditures for meats and sweets in 'order 
that vegetables and fruits may be used more freely. 



358 FOOD PRODUCTS 



REFERENCES 

I 

Bailey. Cyclopedia of Agriculture and Cyclopedia of Horticulture. 

Buchanan^ Household Bacteriology. 

HiNDHEDE. Protein and Nutrition. 

KoNiG. Chemie der Menschlichen Nahrungs- und GenusLmittel. 

Lafar. Technical Mycology. 

Powell. Cooperation in Agriculture. 

Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 

WiCKSON. California Fruits and How to Grow Them. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 

II 

Vegetables 

Abel. Beans, Peas and Other Legumes as Food. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 121 (1900). 
Edsall and Miller. The Dietetic Use of Predigested Legume Flour. 

American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. 129, pages 663-684 (1905). 
GiLMORE. A Study of Quality in Potatoes. Cornell Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 230 (1905). 
Norton. Discoloration of Fruits and Vegetables put up in Tin. Journal 

of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 28, pages 1503-1508 (1906). 
Wiley. Foreign Trade Practices in the Manufacture and Exportation of 

Canned Goods. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 

Chemistry, Bulletin 102 (1906). 
Albahary. Composition of the Tomato. Comptes rendus. Vol. 145, 

pages 131-133 (1907)- 
Brebeck. The Question of Copper in Vegetable Foods. Zeitschrift fur 

Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 13, pages 548- 

552 (1907). 
Langworthy. Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Food. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 295 (1907). 
Morgenstern. Solanine Content of Potatoes. Landwirtschaftliches 

Versuchstationen, Vol. 65, pages 301-338; Chemical Abstracts, Vol. i, 

page 1305 (1907). 
Osborne and Harris. The Proteins of the Pea (Pisum sativum). Journal 

of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 213-217 (1907). 
Richardson, The Occurrence of Nitrates in Vegetable Foods, in Cured 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 359 

Meats and Elsewhere. Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 
29, pages 1757-1767 (1907). 

RoTHE. Artificial Digestion Experiments with Vegetable Foods. Zeit- 
schrift fiir physiologische Chemie, Vol. 51, pages 185-200 (1907). 

Wait. Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Legumes. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, Bulletin 187 
(^907)- 

Graff, Copper in Preserved Vegetables. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der 
Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 16, pages 459-468 (1908). . 

McGiLL. Pickles. Canada Inland Revenue Laboratory (Ottawa), Bulletin 
163 (1908). 

Bitting. Experiments on the Spoilage of Tomato Ketchup. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 119 
(1909). 

Bitting. The Canning of Peas. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 125 (1909). 

Dubois. Analyses of Canned Peas and Beans. United States Department 
of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Circular 54 (1910). 

HoLST and Frolich. Antiscorbutic Properties of Some Vegetables. Norsk- 
Mag. Lagev. 1910, No. 3 ; Chemical Abstracts, Vol. 4, page 2693 (1910). 

KooPER. Sulphur Compounds of the Onion (Allium cepa). Zeitschrift 
fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 19, pages 569- 
571 (1910). 

Bacon and Dunbar. Changes Taking Place during the Spoilage of Toma- 
toes, with Methods for Detecting Spoilage in Tomato Products. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Circular 78 
(1911). 

GiBBS and Agcaoli. Soy Bean Curd, an Important Oriental Food Product. 
Philippine Journal of Science, Series A, Vol. 7, pages 47-51 (191 1). 

Howard. Tomato Ketchup under the Microscope. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Circular 68 (191 1). 

Langworthy. Green Vegetables and their Uses in the Diet. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1911, pages 439-452. 

McGiLL. Canned Corn. Canada Inland Revenue Laboratory (Ottawa), 
Bulletin 226 (191 1). 

PiEPER. Experiments on the Digestion of Vegetables by Man. Inaugural 
Dissertation, Halle, 191 1. 

HiNDHEDE. The Digestibility of Potatoes. Skandinavisches Archiv fiir 
Physiologie, Vol. 27, pages 277-294 (191 2), 

LiNDER. Soy Bean Cheese. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry, Vol. 4, pages 897-898 (191 2). 



360 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Mendel and Fine. The Utilization of the Proteins of Legumes. Journal 
of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 10, pages 433-458 (191 2). 

WiNTERSTEiN and Reuter, The Nitrogenous Constituents of Mushrooms. 
Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde, II Abth., Vol. 34, 
pages 566-572; Chemical Abstracts, Vol. 6, page 3279 (1912). 

WiNTON. The Microscopical Examination of Vegetable Products as an 
i^djunct to their Chemical Analysis. Original Communications, 
Eighth International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 
361-366 (1912). 

HoLST and Frohlich. Conservation and Extraction of Specific Compo- 
nents of Antiscorbutic Foods. Zeitschrift fur Hygiene und Infections- 
krankheiten. Vol. 75, pages 334-344 (1913)- 

Funk. Etiology of the Deficiency Diseases (Beriberi, Scurvy, etc.). 
Journal of State Medicine, Vol. 20, pages 341-368 (1913)- 

DiGGS. Analyses showing the Composition of the Different Grades of 
Commercial Pack Peas. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry, Vol. 6, pages 310-313 (1914)- 

Remsen et al. Influence of Vegetables greened with Copper Salts on 
the Nutrition and Health of Man. U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Report 97 (1914)- 

Schmidt. Copper Balance in Seven Experimental Subjects to Determine the 
Effect of eating Coppered Vegetables. Journal of the American Chem- 
ical Society, Vol. 36, pages 132-136 (1914)- 

Trier. Phosphatids of the Bean. Zeitschrift fiir physiologische Chemie, 
Vol. 86, pages 1-32 (1914)- 

Nuts 

Merrill. Digestion Experiments with Chestnuts. Maine Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 131 (1906). 

Davy. The Bambai-ra Groundnut {Voandzeix suhterranea). Transvaal 
Agricultural Journal, Vol. 5, pages 453-456; Chemical Abstracts, Vol. 
I, page 1305 (1907). 

Jaffe. Nuts and their Uses as Food. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 332 (1908). 

Beattie. The Peanut. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Farmers' Bulletin 431 (191 1). 

Young. A Study of Nuts with Special Reference to Microscopic Identi- 
fication. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemis- 
try, Bulletin 160 (191 2). 

McClenahan. The Development of Fat in the Black Walnut. Journal 
of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 35, pages 485-493 (1913). 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 36 1 



Fruits and Fruit Products 

Browne. A Chemical Study of the Apple and its Products, Pennsylvania 
Department of Agriculture, Bulletin 58, and Journal of the American 
Chemical Society, Vol. 23, pages 869-884 (1901). 

Jaffe. Nutrition Investigations Among Fruitarians. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, Bulletin 107 
(1901). 

BiOLETTi. Olive Cultivation, Oil-Making, Pickling. California Agricul- 
tural Experiment Station, Report for the years 1 898-1 901, Part II, 
pages 285-304 (1902). 

Alwood. a Study of Cider-Making. United States Department of 
Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 71 (1903). 

Hausmann. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 175 (1903). 

Jaffe. Further Investigations among Fruitarians. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, Bulletin 132 (1903). 

Alwood, Davidson, and Moncure. The Chemical Composition of Apples 
and Cider. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 
Chemistry, Bulletin 88 (1904). 

Chase, Tolman, and Munson. Chemical Composition of Some Tropical 
Fruits and their Products. United States Department of Agriculture, 
Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 87 (1904). 

Swingle. The Date Palm and its Utilization in the Southwestern States. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry, 
Bulletin 53 (1904). 

BiGELOW, Gore, and Howard. Studies on Apples. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 94 (1905), 

BiGELOW and Gore. The Ripening of Peaches. Journal of the American 
Chemical Society, Vol. 27, pages 915-922 (1905). 

Hume and Miller. (Analyses of Different Varieties of Pineapples.) 
Florida Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 70, pages 37-63 (1905). 

Mason. Occurrence of Benzoic Acid Naturally in Cranberries. Journal of 
the American Chemical Society, Vol. 27, page 613 (1905). 

Munson, Tolman, and Howard. Fruits and Fruit Products : Chemical 
and Microscopical Examination. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 66 (1905). 

Van Slyke. Home-made Cider Vinegar. New York Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 258 (1905). 

BiGELOW, Gore, and Howard. Growth and Ripening of Persimmons. 
Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 28, pages 688-703 (1906). 



362 FOOD PRODUCTS 

BiGELOW and Gore. A Study of Apple Marc. Journal of the American 
Chemical Society, Vol. 28, pages 200-207 (1906). 

Kearney. Date Varieties and Date Culture in Tunis. United States 
Department of Agriculture,Bureau of Plant Industry, Bulletin 92 (1906). 

Fruit Juices and Fruit Sirups in 1906. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der 
Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 12, pages 721-742 (1907). 

Gore. The Preparation of Unfermented Apple Juice. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1906, pages 239-246 (1907). 

Gore. Studies on Apple Juice. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 
Vol. 29, pages 1112-1119 (1907). 

Hare and Griffiths. The Tuna as Food for Man. New Mexico Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 64 (1907). 

Langworthy. Use of Fruit as Food. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Farmers' Bulletin 293 (1907). 

Gore. Unfermented Apple Juice. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 118 (1908). 

Composition of Fruit Juices during 1907. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der 
Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 15, pages 129-160 (1908). 

Powell. The Decay of Oranges while in Transit from California. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry, Bulletin 
123 (1908). 

Barker and Russell. Composition of Cider. Analyst, Vol. 34, pages 1 25- 
134 (1909). 

Beythien. Standards for Marmalades, Fruit Juices, and other Fruit Pre- 
serves ; Report of Conference of German Food Chemists and Represent- 
atives of Manufacturers. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- 
und Genussmittel, Vol. 18, pages 54-78 (1909). 

Hartel and Muller. Analyses of English Marmalades. Zeitschrift fiir 
Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 17, pages 667- 
669 (1909). 

Fruit Juices and Berries in 1 908. Zeitschrift fur Untersuchung der Nahrungs- 
und Genussmittel, Vol. 16, pages 733-745 (1909). 

Gore. Composition of the Scuppernong, Concord, and Catawba Grape 
Juices. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. i, pages 
436-441 (1909). 

Alwood. Enological Studies (Cider and Wine Making). United States 
Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 129 (1909- 
1910). 

GoLDTHWAiTE. Chemistry and Physics of Jelly-making. Journal of In- 
dustrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. i, pages 333-340; Vol. 2, 
pages 457-462 (1909-1910). 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS 363 

Alwood. The Chemical Composition of American Grapes Grown in Ohio, 
New York, and Virginia. United States Department of Agriculture 
Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 145 (1910), 

Olig. Report on Fruits for the Year 1909. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung 
der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 19, pages 558-569 (1910). 

Powell. Cooperation in the Handling and Marketing of Fruit. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1910, pages 391-406. 

Stubenrauch and Dennis. The Precooling of Fruit. United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Yearbook for 19 10, pages 437-448. 

Balcom. Composition and Analysis of Vinegar. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 132, pages 92-97, 
and Bulletin 137, pages 57-61 (1910-1911). 

Barker. Principles and Practise of Cider-Making. Journal of the In- 
stitute of Brewing, Vol. 17, pages 425-441 (191 1). 

BiOLETTi. Principles of Wine-Making. California Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 213 (191 1). 

Bradley. Composition of the Apple as Affected by Irrigation. Journal of 
Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 496-497 (191 1). 

Cox. The Weather Bureau and the Cranberry Industry. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 1911, pages 211-222. 

Gore. Processing Persimmons to Render them Non-astringent. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 141 
(1911). 

Gore. Studies in Fruit Respiration. United States Department of Agri- 
culture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 142 (191 1). 

Hartel and Solling. Composition of Marmalades. Zeitschrift fiir Unter- 
suchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 21, pages 168-196 
(1911). 

Jamieson. Composition of Avocado Pear. Chemical News, Vol. 102, 
page 61 (191 1). 

Kelley. Composition of Hawaiian Pineapples. Journal of Industrial and 
Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 403-405 (1911). 

Langworthy and Milner. A New Respiration Calorimeter for Use in the 
Study of Problems of Vegetable Physiology (Fruit Ripening). United 
States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 1, pages 491-504. 

Mott. Cider Vinegar. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, 
Vol. 3, pages 747-750 (1911)- 

Reich. Ripe and Unripe Bananas. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der 
Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 22, pages 208-226 (1911). , 

Vinson. The Chemistry and Ripening of the Date. Arizona Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 66, pages 403-435 (191 1)- 



364 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Yashimura. Composition and Ripening of Bananas. Zeitschrift fiir 

Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 21, pages 406-411 

(1911). 
Bailey. Biochemical and Bacteriological Studies on the Banana, Journal 

of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 34, pages 1 706-1 730 (191 2). 
Behre and Frerichs. Fruit Juice Statistics for 191 1. Zeitschrift fiir 

Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 22, pages 733- 

736 (1912). 
BiOLETTi. Sulphurous Acid in Wine-Making. Original Communications, 

Eighth International Congress of AppHed Chemistry, Vol. 14, pages 

31-59 (1912). 
Bitting. The Canning of Foods. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 151 (191 2). 
BoocH. Action of Apple Cider on Peristalsis, Inaugural Dissertation, 

Giessen, 191 2. 
Gore. Large Scale Experiments on the Processing of Japanese Persimmons 

with Notes on the Preparation of Dried Persimmons. United States 

Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 155 (1912). 
Lloyd. Artificial Ripening of Japanese Persimmons. Proceedings of the 

Alabama Horticultural Society, Vol. 9, pages 57-63 ; Chemical Abstracts, 

Vol. 6, pages 878, 2472 (191 2). 
McGiLL. Marmalades. Canada Inland Revenue Laboratory (Ottawa), 

Bulletin 233 (191 2). 
Rossi. Viticultural Industry of California and the Manufacture of its 

Wines. Original Communications, Eighth International Congress of 

Applied Chemistry, Vol. 14, pages 137-143 (191 2). 
Schneider. A Nutrition Investigation on the Insoluble Carbohydrates or 

Marc of the Apple. American Journal of Physiology, Vol. 30, pages 

258-270(1912). 
Sherwin and May. Composition and Sugar Content of Water Melons. 

Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 4, pages 585- 

588 (1912). 
Thompson and Whittier. Forms of Sugar found in Common Fruits. 

Proceedings of the Society of Horticultural Science, Vol. 9, pages 16-22 

(1912), 
WiLLCOx and Kelley, Pineapples, Hawaiian Agricultural Experiment 

Station, Bulletin 28 (191 2). 
Collison. Sugar and Acid in Oranges and Grapefruit. Florida Agricul- 
tural Experiment Station, Bulletin 115 (19 13). 
Funk. The Nitrogenous Constituents of Lime Juice. Biochemical Journal, 

Vol 7, pages 81-86 (1913). 



VEGETABLES, FRUITS, AND NUTS ' 365 

Kakizawa. Digestion Experiment with Banana Flour. Archiv fiir 
Hygiene, Vol. 80, pages 302-309 (1913). 

Langworthy and Milner. Some Results Obtained in Studying Ripening 
Bananas with the Respiration Calorimeter. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 2, pages 293-308. 

Langworthy. Raisins, Figs and Other Dried Fruits and their Use. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Yearbook for 191 2, pages 505-522; 
reprinted as Yearbook Separate, 610 (1913). 

Pratt and Rosario. Philippine Fruits; Composition and Characteristics. 
Philippine Journal of Science, Series A, Vol. 8, pages 59-80 (1913). 

Scott. Fruit Addition to the Diet of the Growing Child. American 
Medicine, Vol. 19, pages 416-425 (1913). 

TiLLMANNS and Splittgerber. Fruit Juices ; Occurrence of Nitrates in 
and Data for 1911-1912. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- 
und Genussmittel, Vol. 25, pages 417-429 (1913). 

Alwood. Crystallization of Cream of Tartar in the Juice of Grapes. 
Journal of Agricultural Research, Vol. i, pages 513-514 (19 14). 

Thompson and Whittier. Fruit Juices. Delaware Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 102 (1914). 

Cruess and Hintze. Manufacture of Unfermented Grape Juice in Cali- 
fornia. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 6, pages 
302-304(1914). 



CHAPTER X 

EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 

Edible fats and oils are separated on a commercial scale from 
a great variety of food materials: but ter fr om milk; oleo- 
margarine, lard, and^suet from meat fats ; corn oil from graiii^ 
olive oil from a fruit ; peanut (arachis) oil from a legume seed 
of nut-like character; coconut oil from a true nut ; cottonseed 
oil from the seeds of a plant of still a different family. Of the 
various food fats of commerce, butter is, in America at least, by 
far the most prominent, and the butter industry will therefore 
be treated more fully than the other fat and oil industries. 

Butter 

The butter reported made in the United States in the census 
year 1909 amounted to 994,650,610 pounds valued at $222,- 
861,440 made on farms, and 627,145,865 pounds valued at 
$180,174,790 made in factories, or in all 1,621,796,475 pounds 
of butter valued at $403,036,230. 

Thus in money value of annual product, the butter industry 
is of similar size to the market milk industry, the egg industry, 
or the sugar industry. 

Since relatively small amounts of butter are imported or 
exported, the consumption may be taken as approximately 
equal to the production, and amounts therefore to about 17 J to 
18 pounds of butter per capita per year, or three fourths to 
four fifths of an ounce per person per day. 

Butter making was, until about fifty years ago, entirely a 
household industry. Since then the industry of making butter 

366 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 367 

in central creameries or butter factories has grown until at 
present about two fifths of the butter is made in such estab- 
lishments, and the proportion is constantly increasing. The 
description which follows relates chiefly to the making of 
butter in creameries or butter factories. 

It is said that the first creamery was built by Alanson Slaughter 
in Orange County, New York, in 1861, and received the milk 
of about 375 cows. Less than forty years later, in 1900, a single 
creamery at St. Albans, Vermont, received the milk (or cream) 
from more than 30,000 cows, from which was made in one room 
between 20,000 and 25,000 pounds of butter per day. 

A considerable proportion of the creameries or butter factories 
are owned by associations of farmers and conducted on a co- 
operative plan. The farmer who sends milk to the creamery is 
often spoken of as a patron. When the farm is at a distance 
from the creamery, the farmer often separates the cream and 
sends it alone to the creamery. Payment either for milk or 
cream is usually based upon the actual determination of fat 
content (usually by means of the Babcock test). 

In order to simplify this part of the work, it is common to 
weigh the milk in a large cylindrical can (which remains on 
the scale) and after weighing each delivery take a sample by 
means of a Scovell or McKay sampling tube which will accurately 
represent the milk of the can from top to bottom and will be 
proportional in quantity to the amount of milk delivered. This 
sample is poured from the tube into a bottle or jar which contains 
a preservative and the jar kept closed to prevent evaporation. 
One jar thus serves for each patron, and -the daily samples are 
composited in the jar for as many days as desired (usually a 
week, ten days, or two weeks), then tested, and the percentage 
of fat found in the composite sample is multiplied by the total 
weight of milk which it represents. 

A butter factory makes more pounds of butter than it receives 
of butter-fat in the milk because the losses of fat are more than 



368 FOOD PRODUCTS 

compensated for by the water, curd, and salt of the butter. 
The excess of butter made over butter-fat received is called the 
*' over-run." 

The amount of over-run depends on: (i) the^thoroughneas 
^f_skimming, (2) the completeness of churning, (3) the general 
losses in the factory, (4) the composition of the butter. It 
is generally calculated in percentage of the fat received and 
may usually be expected to average about 10 per cent. 

Under good conditions and management, the fat content 
of the skim-milk should not exceed o.i per cent, and in the 
butter-milk 0.2 per cent as determined by the Babcock 
test. 

Cream may be obtained from milk either by gravity or by 
centrifugal force. The prevailing method at present is by means 
of centrifugal separators in which the milk flows continuously 
into a rotating bowl containing thin metal plates which separate 
the milk into inclined sheets in which by centrifugal force the 
heavier part is thrown toward the outer rim ^ and the lighter 
fat globules are forced toward the center. Thus while the sepa- 
rator is in operation, a continuous stream of cream and another 
of skimmed milk is obtained from the inner and outer layers 
respectively of the rotated bowl of milk. In order that the 
skimmed milk shall not be thrown out of the machine with too 
great force, the tubes which receive it from the outer portion 
of the bowl are carried back toward the center of the bowl, where 
they discharge into the outlet pipe. The size of the skim-milk 
outlet may be made to bear any desired relation to the size of 
inlet, size of bowl, and speed of rotation, and thus any desired 
proportion of the whole milk may be drawn off as skimmed milk 
while the remainder is forced to the center of the bowl and dis- 
charged through the cream outlet. MacKay and Larsen state 
that for butter-making, a cream containing from 25 per cent up 

^ Suspended solids heavier than the skimmed milk are forced against the outer 
surface and result in a deposit of "separator slime." 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 369 

to 50 per cent of fat may be taken according to the preference 
of the butter-maker. 

Pasteurization of milk or cream for use in butter-making is 
growing in favor. It eliminates not only any pathogenic 
bacteria which may be present, but most other bacteria as well, 
and makes it possible to control the ripening of the cream by 
adding to the pasteurized cream a culture of bacteria which will 
produce the type of fermentation desired. This enables the 
trained butter-maker to produce butter of more uniform char- 
acter and better keeping quality. 

Ripening of cream is an acid fermentation, the object of which 
is to produce a butter of desirable flavor and aroma. Ripened 
cream also churns more easily and completely than that which 
has not been ripened. 

Different butter-makers use temperatures varying from 60° 
to 80° F. in ripening cream, the higher temperatures being em- 
ployed when it is desired to complete the process as rapidly as 
possible. Ordinarily it is considered that a better type of fer- 
mentation is secured at 60° to 70° F. than at a higher temperature. 
The desired temperature is maintained by keeping the cream, 
during the ripening process, in a water-jacketed vat. 

In the ripening-vat the cream is mixed with (usually) one 
tenth to one fifth of its volume of " starter," which consists 
of clean skimmed milk in active lactic acid fermentation in- 
duced either by the addition of commercial cultures of lactic 
acid bacteria or by keeping a good natural milk at about 70° F. 
until it shows a clean pleasant acid odor and taste, and coagu- 
lates to a smooth uniform curd. Before the starter is added to 
the cream, it is strained or poured back and forth between 
sterilized cans until the curds which it contains are broken into 
very small particles ; otherwise the lumps of curd may appear 
as whitish mottles in the finished butter. If necessary, the starter 
may be strained before mixing with the cream. The cre'am and 
starter should be thoroughly stirred together and the stirring 
2 B 



370 FOOD PRODUCTS 

should be repeated at intervals during the ripening process in 
order that the acid fermentation may predominate uniformly 
throughout and that the fat globules may have the most favor- 
able conditions for absorbing the desired aroma. 

In general the degree of acidity reached by the cream in the 
ripening process is an indication of the degree of flavor that the 
butter will have. Some markets require a more highly flavored 
butter than others.^ 

Churning consists in agitating cream in such a way that the 
fat globules stick together into masses of butter large enough 
to be separated from the buttermilk. 

The churns now in general use in American butter factories, 
and which are being introduced into Europe, are the "combined 
churns " which are so arranged that they can be used not only 
to churn the cream an'd gather the butter, but also to wash, 
salt, and work the butter so that all these successive operations 
can be carried out without handling or exposure to flies and in 
an apparatus which permits of a controlled temperature. 

In transferring the cream from the ripening- vat to the churn 
it is run through a tin strainer to remove any lumps of curd 
which might otherwise affect the appearance of the butter. 

Butter color is usually also added to the cream before churn- 
ing. Both annatto and synthetic colors are widely used. 
Different markets require different degrees of color. The com- 
mercial preparations used for coloring butter are employed in 
quantities varying from none in May and June (when the natural 
color of butter is highest) to about 2 ounces per 100 pounds of fat 
in winter when the butter would naturally have a much paler 
color than in early summer. 

^ Usually the ripening process is continued until 50 cc. of the cream neutralize 
about 35 cc. of tenth normal sodium hydroxide, using phenolphthalein as indicator. 
This is called 35 degrees of acidity. The acidity is also sometimes expressed as 
percentage of lactic acid, and is often measured by means of alkali tablets which 
contain a fixed amount of alkali along with enough phenolphthalein to serve as 
indicator. 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 37 1 

Churning is usually continued until the fat has gathered into 
irregular, flaky, granular masses between the size of a grain of 
wheat and that of a kernel of corn. The buttermilk is then 
drawn off and the butter washed with pure water usually at a 
temperature about that at which the cream was churned or 
a little below. Warmer or colder water is sometimes used when 
it is desired to alter the texture of the butter. 

Salting of butter has the object (i) of imparting the desired 
flavor, (2) of increasing the keeping quality, (3) of facilitating 
the removal of the buttermilk. 

The amount of added salt desired in butter by different 
markets varies from o to 4 per cent, American markets tending 
as a rule to prefer a rather highly salted butter. 

When the salting is done without removing the butter from 
the churn, the amount of salt added is calculated on the basis 
of the amount of fat known to have been contained in the cream. 

The quality of the salt used is regarded as quite important. 
Good dairy salt should have a clean, white, silky appearance 
and should dissolve quickly. Woll ^ gives the following as 
the analysis of a sample of purest American dairy salt : 

Per Cent 

Sodium chloride . .99.18 

Magnesium chloride 05 

Calcium sulphate 54 

Calcium chloride 19 

Insoluble matter 03 

Moisture -oi 

100.00 

All of the salt contained in butter should dissolve in the water 
which the butter retains. Butter containing particles of un- 
dissolved salt is called " gritty." When the butter as packed 
contains undissolved granules of salt, these attract moisture 
and cause unevenness of appearance. This is one of the causes 

1 Bulletin 74, Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station. 



372 FOOD PRODUCTS 

of mottles in butter. In order to avoid mottling of butter from 
this or other causes, the buttermilk should be washed out as 
completely as possible and the salt carefully applied and well 
worked in. The washing out of the proteins in the buttermilk 
also results in a butter of better keeping qualities. 

Working. The butter, having been washed and salted, is 
next worked to distribute the salt evenly, to bring the butter 
into compact form, and to press out any excess of water or 
diluted buttermilk. The amount of water left in the finished 
product is largely determined by the amount it is worked, since 
the more it is worked after it has become firm, the lower the per- 
centage of moisture will be. For most markets the moisture 
must not exceed i6 per cent. 

Packing. Extra quality butter is often put up in prints bear- 
ing the name of the farm or creamery where made. As the 
print butter must be firm in order to keep its shape well, it is 
apt to contain slightly less moisture than the butter put up in 
tubs. 

Butter is said to keep best when packed in earthen jars, but 
as these are heavy and easily broken in transportation, they are 
usually replaced by wooden tubs made of ash or spruce, which 
must be well seasoned and free from odor. Before use the butter 
tubs are filled with saturated brine and allowed to stand and soak 
until the next day, then washed and scalded, thoroughly cooled, 
lined with paper which has been soaked in brine, and filled at 
once. This treatment should prevent molding of the butter in 
the tub, and it also swells the wood and so closes any small 
cracks which it may contain. Sometimes the tubs are parafiined 
inside or treated by soaking in brine to which has been added 
about three ounces of formalin to the gallon. 

The butter is transferred from the churn or working table to 
the tub by wooden ladles which just before use are thoroughly 
scalded and then chilled in cold water. By means of the ladles, 
the butter should be smoothly and firmly packed into the tub 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 373 

so as to leave no air spaces either in the butter or between the 
butter and the sides of the tub or at the top. 

Stored butter should be kept at 50° F. or below in as dry a place 
as possible and separate from any other foods or anything from 
which it might absorb an odor. 

The expense of making butter from the whole milk was in- 
vestigated in Iowa and is reported to range in the different 
factories from one and one fifth to six cents, with an average 
of two and one fourth cents per pound of butter produced. The 
cost of ordinary creamery butter depends therefore much more 
largely upon the cost of milk or cream than upon the expense of 
manufacture. 

Judging butter is very important in the industry because the 
price is so largely dependent upon the grade given the butter by 
the butter judge. 

On a scale of 100 the weight given to the different factors of 
quality in America is usually as follows : 

Flavor 45 

Body 25 

Color 15 

Salt 10 . 

Style S \ 

For discussion of judging, grading, and the market classifica- 
tion of butter, see McKay and Larsen, Principles and Practice 
of Butter-making, Chapter XX. 

Composition of Butter 

McKay and Larsen found the average composition of 221 
samples of butter from 55 creameries in different parts of Iowa 
to be : 

Per Cent 

Fat 84 

Moisture 12.73 

Curd 1.30 

Salt and ash 1.97 



374 FOOD PRODUCTS 

The figures for curd include any milk sugar which may some- 
times be present. Under present conditions of manufacture 
the curd is the least variable constituent. It is very generally 
kept below 2 per cent because if more than this is present the 
brine which exudes from the butter is apt to be noticeably milky, 
and such a butter would not b.e acceptable to the trade. In 
butter which is to be kept for some time special care is taken to 
keep down the protein as much as possible. Such butter will 
probably contain only 0.5 to i per cent of curd. 

Preparations for increasing the amount of butter obtainable 
from a given amount of cream have been put on the market from 
time to time. Since in the ordinary manufacture very little 
fat is lost in the buttermilk, it is obvious that these butter in- 
creasers must act, if at all, not by a saving of fat, but by induc- 
ing the formation of a butter with a lower fat content. 
Usually the result is accomplished by the incorporation of an 
undue amount of curd and water by a sort of emulsification of 
buttermilk with the butter. Such a butter is of course fraudu- 
lent, and is also of very inferior keeping quality on account of 
its high protein content. Such frauds can be practiced only 
on a small scale, as a butter of this sort would be quickly de- 
tected and rejected by those engaged in the wholesale butter 
trade. 

The salt in butter is both a flavoring and a preservative. A 
comparatively small variation in the salt content of butter 
is recognizable to the taste, and different consumers prefer very 
different amounts of salt. About 2 per cent of salt is demanded 
by most American markets. Some brands of butter are made 
extra salty with the idea that the consumer having acquired 
a taste for this will find ordinary butter " flat " and so will 
continue to demand the highly salted brand. On the other hand 
some consumers demand unsalted (so-called " sweet ") butter, 
and this can usually be found in the market. 

When unsalted butter is stored its flavor deteriorates and 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 375 

becomes " cheesy," while salted butter deteriorates less rapidly 
and usually in a different manner. 

Moisture is the most abundant and most variable constituent 
of butter aside from the fat. The amount ranges from 6 to 16 
per cent, more than 16 per cent being forbidden both by legal 
and trade regulations in many states and in the large markets. 
Butter which exudes large drops of water is called '' leaky " 
and is commonly supposed to contain excessive moisture, but 
this is not necessarily the case. Both the moisture content and 
the physical condition which make the butter " leaky " are 
largely influenced by the conditions which obtain during churn- 
ing. 

The United States Department of Agriculture, in 1902, made 
a systematic investigation of the moisture content of American 
butter as ordinarily manufactured. In 800 samples of butter 
from 400 creameries in 18 states the extremes were 7.20 and 
17.62 per cent moisture; 85 per cent of the samples showed 
between 10 and 14 per cent, and the average of all was 11.78 
per cent of moisture. 

Composition of butter fat. Like all other natural fats butter 
fat consists of a mixture of glycerides of fatty acids. It is 
characterized, however, by containing more butyrin (yielding 
butyric acid) and less stearin (yielding stearic acid) than other 
food fats. 

Browne made an extended study of the amounts of each 
fatty acid in a specimen of butter fat with the results shown in 
Table 48. 

These figures represent the composition of a particular sample 
of fat and not necessarily the average. That individual 
samples vary considerably in composition is evident from the 
results of several independent investigations. 

According to Browne, sickness, peculiarities of feed, and 
advancement in the period of lactation are the principal 'causes 
of irregularities in the composition of butter fat ; certain feeds, 



^7^ 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



of which gluten meal is an example, tend to increase the pro- 
portion of olein in the butter, while beets and other roots have 
an opposite effect. 

Table 48. Fatty Acid Radicles in Butter Fat (Browne) 



Fatty Acid 



Butyric 

Caproic ..... 

Caprylic 

Capric 

Laurie 

Myristic 

Palmitic 

Stearic 

Oleic 

Dioxy stearic .... 
Total 



Calculated as 
Acid 



Per cent 

5-45 
2.09 
0.49 
0.32 

2-57 

9.89 
38.61 

1.83 
32.50 

1. 00 



94-75 



Calculated 
AS Glyceride 



Per cent 
6.32 
2.32 
0-53 
0-34 
2.73 
10.44 

4051 
1.91 

33-95 
1.04 



100.00 



The standard of the Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists is as follows : " Butter is the clean, non-rancid product 
made by gathering in any manner the fat of fresh or ripened 
cream into a mass which also contains a small portion of the 
other milk constituents, with or without salt, and contains not 
less than 82.5 per cent of milk fat. By acts of Congress ap- 
proved August 2, 1886, and May 9, 1902, butter may also con- 
tain added matter coloring." 

Fuel value of butter. Atwater and Bryant estimated the 
average fat content of butter at 85 per cent, which according 
to modern factors of fuel value would yield about 3500 Calories 
per pound. 

With increased knowledge and skill professional butter 
makers have tended to increase their " over-run " by leaving 
somewhat more water in the butter than formerly. If McKay 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 377 

and Larsen's estimate of 84 per cent represents the present 
average fat content of butter, the average fuel value is about 
3450 Calories per pound. 

The above minimum standard of 82.5 per cent fat insures 
only a minimum of 3370 Calories per pound, but the average 
should of course exceed this minimum. 

Process Butter 

Butter of inferior flavor or which has become more or less 
rancid is often " renovated " or " processed." This usually 
consists in melting the butter, removing the froth or scum, and 
drawing off the curd and brine which settle out of the melted 
butter, blowing air through the melted fat to expel faulty odors, 
and re-churning the fat thus purified with fresh milk or cream. 

In the butter markets, process butter is an established grade. 
In many states, however, restrictions are placed upon the sale 
of process butter, while good and bad grades of original butter 
are sold side by side without restriction. 

A simple test much used to distinguish original butter from 
process butter or oleomargarine is to heat some of it in a table- 
spoon or small dish, with stirring, until it boils briskly, and stir 
two or three times thoroughly while boiling. Original butter 
boils without much noise but with an abundance of foam. 
Process butter and oleomargarine boil more noisily, sputtering 
like a mixture of water and fat in a frying pan, and give less foam 
than butter. 

The definition and standard of the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists is as follows : " Renovated butter, 
process butter, is the product made by melting butter and re- 
working without the addition or use of chemicals or any sub- 
stances except milk, cream, or salt, and contains not more than 
16 per cent of water and at least 82.5 per cent of milk fat." 

According to Wiley the quantity of renovated butter produced 
during the year ending June 30, 1905, was 60,290,421 pounds. 



378 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Oleomargarine (Margarine) 

" Oleomargarine " in America, " margarine " in England, 
France, and Germany, is the term applied to butter substitutes 
made by churning fats other than butter fat with milk or cream 
to a butter-like emulsion. 

The soft beef fat which was the original basis of these prep- 
arations is called " oleo oil " in America ; Lewkowitsch states 
that in England it is called " oleomargarine." 

Legislation in the United States has generally been such as to 
discourage the oleomargarine industry, and its volume for the 
census year 1909 is estimated at only about $8,148,000, or about 
2 per cent of the value of the butter industry. 

According to Lewkowitsch Great Britain in 1906 imported 
butter to the value of £22,417,926 and " margarine " to the 
value of £ 2,223,645, i.e. the imported " margarine " equaled 
10 per cent of the imported butter in value (doubtless more 
than 10 per cent in amount), and this exclusive of considerable 
quantities of edible fats which were worked up into butter sub- 
stitutes in England. Lewkowitsch estimates the home produc- 
tion of margarine in the United Kingdom as over 100,000,000 
pounds, or about as much as is imported. 

Manufacture of oleomargarine. The commercial prepara- 
tion of an artificial butter was first described in 1870 by Mege, 
a French chemist, who was led to study the subject through his 
desire to furnish to poor people and to sailors a cheaper and more 
stable article than ordinary butter. He sought to imitate the 
physiological process by which the body fat of a cow may become 
changed into milk fat and succeeded in obtaining a fat " which 
melted at almost the exact temperature of butter, possessed a 
sweet and agreeable taste, and which for most purposes could 
replace ordinary butter, not, of course, the finest kinds, but 
which was superior to it in possessing the advantageous pecul- 
iarity of keeping for a long time without becoming rancid." 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 379 

The details of the process used by Mege, many of which are now 
known to be unnecessary, are given in his United States Patent, 
No. 146012, dated December 30, 1873, and in Bulletin 13, 
Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture, 
pages 10-12. 

The chief fats used in the manufacture of oleomargarine are 
" oleo oil " prepared from beef fat and " neutral " lard. The 
preparation of " oleo oil " may be described first : 

Oleo oil. The fat of freshly killed beeves, chiefly the fat of 
visceral cavity, known as " caul fat," is thoroughly washed, 
first in tepid and then in cold water, and then thoroughly 
chilled either by means of ice water or by hanging for some 
time in artificially cooled rooms. The hardened fat is then 
cut up and ground and the disintegrated mass transferred to 
a jacketed melting kettle. 

Formerly this fat was rendered at 55° to 80° C. (i3o°-i75° F.), 
the fluid fat thus obtained was allowed to cool slowly until 
a considerable proportion of the stearin and palmitin had crys- 
tallized out, the pasty mass then subjected to hydraulic pressure, 
and the fluid pressed out (about two thirds of the whole) was 
run into cold water and allowed to solidify into a granular mass, 
— the '' oleo " or " oleo oil " of commerce. 

According to Lewkowitsch the temperature of rendering is 
now much lower, not above 42° C. (107° F.), this temperature 
being maintained for a longer time by means of steam or hot 
water in the jacket of the kettle. At this temperature the tissue 
slowly sinks, and a part of the fat melts and separates at the 
top. Sprinkling salt on the mass assists in the settling of the 
tissue and the clearing of the surface fat. The latter is then run 
off and either allowed to cool to the proper point and pressed, 
or (for the better grades of oleomargarine) may be remelted 
and freed from the last portions of membrane and tissue by 
further standing and sprinkling with salt. Finally it 'is care- 
fully cooled to the proper temperature for crystallizing out the 



380 FOOD PRODUCTS 

desired proportion of '' stearin," and is sometimes held at this 
temperature for 3 to 5 days before going to the hydraulic 
presses. 

Neutral lard. For the preparation of lard to be used in 
making butter substitutes the " leaf fat " of the hog is quickly 
removed, freed from flesh, chopped into small pieces, and then 
thoroughly washed with cold water. It is then rendered at a 
temperature of 40° to 50° C, yielding a practically neutral 
product known in the trade as Neutral Lard No. i. When the 
leaf fat cannot be rendered at once, it is kept in refrigerating 
rooms until it can be worked up. This prolonged cooling process 
is considered by some an advantage, inasmuch as it is said to 
be more effective than simple washing in removing the " animal 
flavor." 

The neutral lard or the oleo oil is, of course, brought to dif- 
ferent degrees of hardness in different cases, a harder fat being 
prepared in case cottonseed oil or other oil is to be admixed. 

The chief desiderata are that each fat (except the butter which 
is churned in later) shall be as free as possible from taste and 
odor, and that the final mixture of fats have practically the same 
melting point as butter fat for this climate ; for a warm climate 
a little harder and for a cold climate a little softer. 

Cottonseed oil especially prepared for use in butter substitutes 
is called " butter oil " and is considerably used, as is also or- 
dinary cottonseed oil and cottonseed " stearin." In Europe 
sesame oil is used in the same way. Coconut fat and arachis 
(peanut) oil are also used in some cases. 

Final mixing. The foreign fats having thus been obtained 
in proper condition and mixed in the desired proportions, the 
mixture is fed into a churn containing milk or an emulsified 
mixture of milk and butter (sometimes also cream). The 
amounts of milk, cream, and butter vary greatly according to the 
quality of product being made. In some countries the amount 
is restricted by law in order that the product may be easily 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 381 

distinguishable from butter. In this country any proportions 
may be used, but the product must always be called oleomargarine, 
and whatever its quality is subject to the restrictions noted later. 
The foreign fats having been gradually churned into the milk 
(or milk and butter mixture) and the whole mass having been 
" pulverized " by means of rotating paddles into a granular 
emulsion which will not permit any subsequent crystallization 
of the beef fat, the product is cooled, washed, salted, and worked 
as in buttermaking. 

Legal controL In the United States the oleomargarine in- 
dustry has been regulated by the Federal Laws of August 2, 
1886, and May 9, 1902. The latter law taxes uncolored oleo- 
margarine 0.25 cent and colored oleomargarine 10 cents per 
pound. This prevents the use of artificial coloring matter in 
oleomargarine made and used in this country. For this reason 
preference is now given to fats having naturally a yellow color. 
Government officials have objected to the use of yellow fats 
in making oleomargarine, but have not been able to stop the 
practice. The oleomargarine now commonly sold is distinctly 
yellowish, though not nearly so yellow as is ordinary butter. 

The United States law does not specify the fats to be used in 
making oleomargarine, but all mixtures of butter with other 
fats must be sold as oleomargarine and practically must be un- 
colored, since the tax of 10 cents a pound on colored oleomargarine 
is prohibitive. Factories must register with the Bureau of 
Internal Revenue and furnish the government with detailed 
reports of their operations. They are always open to Federal 
inspection. 

In Great Britain since 1899 the maximum proportion of butter 
fat in oleomargarine is limited to 10 per cent. Since 1907 the 
water content is limited to 16 per cent and the factories are sub- 
ject to inspection. 

In France up to 1897 butter and oleomargarine could be 
mixed in any proportions provided the mixture was sold for 



382 FOOD PRODUCTS 

whatit was. But by Law of April 16, 1897, the amount of butter 
which may be admixed with oleomargarine is limited to 10 per 
cent. 

Germany and Austria forbid the direct mixing of butter and 
oleomargarine either during or after manufacture, and restrict 
the amount of milk which may be used in making the oleomar- 
garine to 100 parts of milk or an equivalent amount of. cream 
to each 100 parts of fat. In effect this limits the butter or milk- 
fat content of the finished product to about 3.5 per cent. These 
countries also require the use of 10 per cent of sesame oil in 
oleomargarine to permit its more ready detection. 

In Denmark under the Law of Jan. i, 1906, the proportion 
of butter in oleomargarine is limited to a maximum of 15 per 
cent, the color is restricted, and the product must contain 10 
per cent of sesame oil. 

In Belgium under Law of May 4, 1900, it is required that 
oleomargarine contain at least 5 parts of sesame oil per 100 
parts of fatty matter and that it be further " earmarked " 
by the addition of 0.2 per cent of dry potato starch, which may 
readily be detected by the iodine reaction. 

Vegetable Fats as Butter Substitutes 

Edible fats of the consistency of butter are obtainable from 
a number of vegetable sources. 

Any of the edible oils may be chilled and pressed at such 
a temperature as to leave a soft solid residue. This is a regular 
practice with cottonseed oil, the solid product being called 
" cottonseed stearin," although the proportion of stearic acid 
is not large. 

Coconut and palm nut fat are of nearly the desired melting 
point in their natural state and so lend themselves readily to 
this purpose, but require careful refining to remove their char- 
acteristic tastes and odors. Different methods have been pat- 
ented for the refining of these fats and no reliable information 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 383 

is at hand as to which methods are most used, but the results 
are now sufficiently satisfactory so that large quantities of these 
fats are sold for food. 

Lewkowitsch estimates the production of coconut and palm 
nut butters, in Europe in 1907 at 50,000 to 60,000 tons or 100,- 
000,000 to 120,000,000 pounds. 

At first the refined coconut oil was used as an adulterant 
of butter, and on account of containing a considerable proportion 
of lauric acid and appreciable amounts of fatty acids of still 
lower molecular weight it is more difficult to detect than oleo- 
margarine ; but methods for its detection were soon developed, 
and as the processes of refining were perfected and a more at- 
tractive product obtained it has come to have an independent 
market as an honest substitute for butter both as a culinary 
fat and (extensively) in the making of confectionary and fancy 
bakery products. The manufacturers as a rule attempt to 
keep their processes secret and often market their product 
under copyrighted names. 

These products are not so largely used in this country as in 
Europe, largely no doubt because butter and lard are relatively 
cheaper here, and probably also in part because of the expense 
of importing from Europe, where the refining industry is prin- 
cipally developed. 

OHve Oil 

In comparison with other food fats, olive oil plays a relatively 
less prominent part in the United States than in many Euro- 
pean countries. It has been estimated unofficially that about 
350,000 gallons of olive oil are produced annually in CaUfornia, 
and according to the United States Department of Agriculture 
the imports amounted in 191 2 to 4,836,515 gallons. The total 
weight of olive oil consumed is therefore probably between 2 and 
3 per cent of the weight of butter. 

OHves for green pickles are gathered very soon after they reach 



384 FOOD PRODUCTS 

full size and before they have begun to color or soften, but for 
ripe pickles and for oil making olives are gathered when they 
contain the maximum amount of oil, which is soon after they 
are well colored and before they become black. If the olives are 
too green, the oil will be bitter ; if too ripe, it will be rancid. 

The flesh of ripe olives is about one half oil. When the skin 
is broken a considerable proportion of this oil exudes from the 
pulpy flesh, either spontaneously or under very slight pressure 
in the cold. This is called " virgin," " subUme," or " first- 
expressed " oil and the highest grades are obtained from selected, 
hand-picked olives. 

In the manufacture of ordinary olive oil the olives are thor- 
oughly crushed either by corrugated metal rolls or by heavy 
stones revolving in masonry trenches. 

The crushed pulp is placed in fabric of woven esparto grass 
(in Europe) or coarse linen cloth (in California), and the fabric 
folded over it to make a cheese about three feet square and three 
inches thick. Ten or more of these cheeses are placed one 
above the other, with slats between them, and pressure is applied. 

The oil obtained by pressure under these conditions is second 
in quality to the " virgin oil," and constitutes the bulk of the 
edible olive oil of commerce. 

After obtaining as much oil as possible in this way, the cheeses 
are taken out, broken to pieces, mixed with hot water and 
pressed again, yielding a third-grade oil. Further yields of much 
inferior oil may be obtained by repeated pressing with hot water 
in very powerful presses or by extraction with solvents, but in 
California this is not usually done. The residual pulp is used 
for fattening swine. 

In order to clarify the dark-colored oil obtained from the 
press, it is usually filtered first through cotton wool, then allowed 
to settle for 24 hours in funnel-shaped tanks from which the 
greater part of the sediment is drawn off, and finally run into 
settling tanks lined with tin or glass where the oil stands for 2 to 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 385 

5 months, being repeatedly racked off (usually three times in all) 
until it is entirely clarified. 

The flavor of olive oil, which chiefly determines its commercial 
value quite apart from any question of genuineness or purity, 
depends largely upon the variety of olive, its ripeness when 
picked, the manner of handling, the length of time it is stored 
before pressing, the temperature and pressure at which the oil 
is drawn, and other conditions of manufacture. 

Chemically olive oil consists chiefly of olein, the glyceride 
of oleic acid. 

According to the standards of the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists : " Olive oil is the oil obtained from the 
sound, mature fruit of the cultivated olive tree {Olea europcea L.) 
and subjected to the usual refining processes ; is free from rancid- 
ity; has a refractive index (25° C.) not less than 1.4660 and 
not exceeding 1.4680; and an iodine number not less than 79 
and not exceeding 90." " Virgin Olive Oil is olive oil obtained 
from the first pressing of carefully selected, hand-picked olives." 

The purpose in setting Hmits to the index of refraction and 
" iodine number " in the standard for olive oil is to aid in dis- 
tinguishing it from other edible oils of only slightly different 
physical and chemical properties. 

Out of the first 25 prosecutions for adulteration or misbranding 
of olive oil under the Food and Drugs Act, 23 were because 
of the presence of cottonseed oil not properly declared, one was 
for short weight, and one was because the label bore a false 
statement that the oil had been inspected by a government 
chemist. 

The courts have upheld the position of government that the 
term " salad oil " when used alone is understood to mean olive 
oil ; but in one case in which a label bore the words salad oil 
in large letters and cottonseed oil in small letters the court 
decided against the government charge of misbranding.' 

In the administration of the Food and Drugs Act the following 
2 c 



386 FOOD PRODUCTS 

notice has recently been issued : " Pending a final decision 
of this matter, no objection will be made to the use of the term 
Salad Oil on oils other than olive oil, when such oils are pure, 
harmless, and edible, providing the term Salad Oil be plainly 
qualified by the common name of the oil or oils actually used. 
These qualifying names should be stated on the label with a 
prominence equal to that of the term Salad Oil." 

Other Edible Oils 

Many fatty oils besides that of the olive are entirely suitable for 
use as human food. 

The Association of Official Agricultural Chemists include 
among edible vegetable oils and fats of sufiicient importance 
to warrant standardizing, the oils of cottonseed^ peanut, sesame 
seed, poppyseed, coconut, rape seed, sunflower, and maize, as well 
as the solid fats cocoa butter and cottonseed " stearin.'' 

Of these peanut oil bears the closest resemblance to olive 
oil in chemical and physical properties, and is used to a con- 
siderable extent as a substitute for olive oil in Europe, but not 
to such a large extent in this country because of the elaborate 
refining required to remove the characteristic flavor. 

Cotton seed and sesame seed yield oils very similar to each 
other and not very different from olive oil in general nature but 
each possessed of characteristic color reactions by which it is 
readily identified. It is for the latter reason that sesame oil, 
which is abundant in Europe and is known to be a wholesome 
food, is required by the laws of some of the European countries to 
be added in the manufacture of oleomargarine as a means of 
making the latter easily distinguishable from butter. 

Sesame oil is not produced in this country, and there is no 
inducement to import it in any quantity because cottonseed oil, 
having nearly the same properties and being equally adapted 
to the same uses, is produced here in such abundance as to supply 
the entire home market and leave a large surplus for export. 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 387 

It is estimated that the average cotton crop of the United 
States yields about 12,000,000 bales of fiber and about 6,000,000 
tons of seed and that about 4,000,000 tons of seed are crushed 
and pressed with the production of about 3,000,000 barrels of 
crude cottonseed oil annually (three fourths of the world's 
production) . About half of this oil is refined and used as human 
food, but not all in this country, as a very large part of it is 
exported to Europe. 

The modern process of refining cottonseed oil involves treat- 
ments (i) by sodium hydroxide, (2) with fuller's earth, and 
(3) by a secret method for removal of the " earthy flavor." 
The final product is nearly free from any characteristic flavor 
and is steadily growing in favor both as a substitute for olive 
oil and as a cooking fat. The highest quality refined cotton- 
seed oil costs one third to one half as much as a medium-grade 
olive oil and has essentially the same food value since both are 
practically pure fats. 

Lard and Lard Substitutes 

Under the conditions ordinarily pertaining in the fattening 
and slaughter of swine, each hog yields about 30 pounds of 
lard. The refining of lard constitutes an important branch 
of the industry of slaughtering and meat packing, the exporta- 
tion of lard for the year 1909 being reported at 528,722,000 
pounds. How much lard is taken by the home market is not 
definitely known, since the statistics do not sufficiently separate 
lard from pork on the one hand and lard substitutes on the other. 

Commercial lard is nearly pure fat, the total amount of other 
substances being usually less than one per cent. 

Lard substitutes are usually mixtures of beef fat and cotton- 
seed oil. The solid residual fat from which " oleo oil " has been 
pressed, and which is technically known as " oleostearin," is 
commonly used for this purpose. 

Some of these " lard compounds " are widely advertised and 



388 FOOD PRODUCTS 

favorably known under trade names and sell for about the 
same price as lard. 

Refined cottonseed oil is sometimes chilled and pressed at 
such a temperature that about one fifth of the whole is obtained 
as a solid which is called " cottonseed stearin," and may be 
used as a lard substitute either alone or in admixture with other 
fats. The other four fifths of the oil, being free from the more 
readily solidifiable glycerides, can be subjected to* low tem- 
perature without yielding crystals or showing turbidity and is 
known commercially as " winter oil." 

In recent years the transformation of liquid glycerides of un- 
saturated fatty acids into the corresponding saturated com- 
pounds which are solids, with resultant thickening or hardening 
of the fat containing such glycerides, has been developed on a 
commercial scale. Cottonseed oil is the material chiefly used 
in this country, and the " hydrogenation " is accomplished by 
heating with hydrogen in the presence of nickel as a catalytic 
agent, the process being carried to such a point as to yield a 
product of the appearance and consistency of lard. 

It is said that experiments are now (1914) in progress to de- 
termine whether a small amount of nickel remaining in the final 
product is likely to have any physiological effects. 

Place of Fats in the Diet 

Fats have more than twice the energy value of either proteins 
or carbohydrates in nutrition, and it has repeatedly been seen 
in earlier chapters that the energy values of food materials which 
contain a mixture of nutrients are largely due to their fat con- 
tent. The food fats which appear in commerce in an approxi- 
mately pure state are closely similar to, if not identical with, 
those which have already entered into our consideration of the 
food values of meats, milk, grains, etc. Hence there is no occa- 
sion to question the general wholesomeness and food value of 
such staple food fats as butter, oleomargarine, lard, olive oil, cot- 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 



389 



tonseed oil, etc., and we need only consider whether these are 
of equal value with each other and whether their liberal use is 
likely to make the total fat content of the diet excessive or 
the diet one-sided in any way. 

Comparative digestibility of fats. The fats ordinarily used 
as food by man do not differ greatly in the extent to which they 
are absorbed from the digestive tract under normal conditions. 
Such differences as have been found seem to be explained by 
the differing hardness or melting points of the fats. If the melt- 
ing point of the fat lies much above the body temperature, the 
fat will not become sufficiently fluid in the intestine to be readily 
emulsified and digested. The following data determined by 
Munk and Arnschink are cited by Von Noorden in this con- 
nection : 



Nature of Fat 



Stearin 

Mixture of stearin and almond oil 

Mutton fat 

Mutton fat 

Lard 

Bacon fat 

Goose fat 

Olive oil 



Per Cent Lost 
IN Feces 




These results show good utilization and no significant dif- 
ferences in digestibility among fats melting at or below 43° C, 
while with melting points from 49° to 55° C. the losses were 
considerable, and with stearin melting at 60° C. much the 
greatest part failed of digestion. Notice, however, that the 
admixture of sufficient almond oil to lower the melting point a 
few degrees resulted in very greatly increased digestibility. 
Hence while stearin eaten alone is only slightly digested, yet fats 



390 FOOD PRODUCTS 

containing much stearin may be digested very well provided 
they also contain enough olein so that the melting point of the 
mixture as a whole is not much above body temperature. Since 
oleomargarine contains notably more stearin than butter it was 
at one time thought that it might show correspondingly larger 
losses in digestion; but 'repeated experiments have shown that 
oleomargarine (being made so as to have about the same hard- 
ness) shows practically the same small losses in digestion as does 
butter. Thus in experiments by Luhrig the coefficient of digesti- 
bility was 97.86 per cent for the butter and 97.55 per cent for 
the oleomargarine. 

In experiments in which cooked oils and fats were fed to mice, 
Moore found for olive oil coefficients of digestibiUty of 96.70 to 
98.71 ; for cottonseed oil, 94.43 to 97.95 ; for home-made lard, 
96.45 to 97.17 per cent. In another series of experiments in 
which Moore fed uncooked oils to guinea pigs the results were 
lower and less regular but indicated that olive, peanut, corn, and 
cottonseed oils were all digested to practically the same degree. 

As regards " digestibility " in the more popular sense of relat- 
ing to the ease, comfort, and rapidity with which the digestive 
organs carry on their work, it may be said that the fats ^enera\ W 
retard the secretion of the gastric iuice j g.nd tend to make the 

Jpod stay longer in the sto mach. To the extent that the ease 

of digestion is inferred from the rapidity with which a meal passes 
from the stomach into the intestine the eating of fat appears to 
retard the process, and this is true to a greater extent the higher 
the melting point of the fat. 

While the eating of much fat may thus prevent the digestion 
of food in the stomach from going forward as promptly and 
pleasantly as it otherwise might, it is unlikely that the fat will 
exert any direct effect tending toward discomfort except in the 
sense that if fat is overheated in cooking it may in part be decom- 
posed with the production of irritating substances. It should 
also be remembered that if foods are cooked in or with fat in such 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 391 

a way as to form a coating of fat over the other constituents of the 
food, the digestion of the proteins and carbohydrates may be 
retarded, since the materials which are coated with layers of 
fat will not be permeated readily by the saliva or the gastric 
juice. These latter possibilities of unfavorable action of fat 
are not properly chargeable to fat itself, but rather to the unin- 
telligent way in which it is -sometimes cooked. 

Fats are less susceptible to objectionable decomposition by 
the bacteria of the digestive tract than are proteins and car- 
bohydrates. 

In metabolism fat can serve interchangeably with carbohy- 
drate as fuel within very wide Hmits. The different food fats 
have nearly the same fuel value when in the same state of purity. 
Lard, olive oil, cottonseed oil, etc., are practically 100 per cent 
fat and have energy values of about 4000 Calories per pound, 
while butter as stated above contains a considerable percentage 
of water and salt, and shows usually 83 to 85 per cent of fat with 
about 3400 to 3500 Calories per pound. Recently it has been 
discovered that the energy value of its fat content does not 
express the entire food value or nutritive function of butter. 

Osborne and Mendel, in the course of their extended feeding 
experiments with isolated food substances which have been 
referred to in earlier chapters, have found that diets otherwise 
sufficient fail to maintain growth and health unless they contain 
certain hitherto unrecognized substances, apparently of lipoid 
nature, which in practice are best supplied by the feeding of milk 
or butter. In general their results confirm and extend the obser- 
vations published just previously by Stepp and by McCuUom 
and Davis. 

The work of Osborne and Mendel and of McCuUom and Davis 
taken together indicate that the important substances in ques- 
tion are contained in butter, egg fat, and codliver oil, and are not 
contained in lard, almond oil, cottonseed oil, or olive oil. ' 

These observations are very recent, and as yet we do not know 



392 FOOD PRODUCTS 

just how important these substances may prove to be and how 
much more than its energy value should be credited to butter 
in the evaluation of the various types of food. 

Since the commercially isolated fats such as butter, lard, and 
the edible oils are practically devoid of protein and natural ash 
constituents, the question may properly be asked whether the 
free use of such fats may impoverish the diet either as regards 
protein or any specific chemical element to any significant extent. 

It was shown above that the total butter consumption of the 
United States amounts to about three fourths to four fifths of 
an ounce per person per day. The amounts of all other com- 
mercial fats consumed are very much smaller, so that the total 
consumption of all commercial fats is probably only about equiv- 
alent to an average of one ounce of butter per capita per day. 
Inasmuch as this would furnish only 200 to 220 Calories per 
day, and as the butter has a food value not yet measured in 
quantitative terms in addition to its fuel value, it would seem 
that, even though butter is used more liberally here than in other 
countries, its use is not in the case of the average individual 
displacing other foods to an extent which need occasion anxiety 
at present. The corresponding question presents itself in more 
serious form in connection with the rapidly increasing use of 
refined sugar and will be considered in the discussion of the place 
of sugar in the diet (Chapter XI) . 

Fat, being a very compact form of fuel, properly finds its largest 
place in the diet in those cases in which the energy requirement 
is high, as in persons doing large amounts of muscular work or 
exposed to severe cold. In such cases there is largely increased 
need for fuel without any corresponding increase in the need for 
protein or for other specific nutrients. Here a large part or 
even all of the extra energy requirement may be met by feeding 
practically pure fats, and it has been found that the organism, 
whether at hard muscular work, or only moderate exercise, is able 
to digest quite large amounts of fat. It has been generally 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 393 

believed that about 200 grams of fat per day is as much as can 
be digested and absorbed, though individual instances of good 
utilization of larger amounts might be cited. 

Considerable variations in the amount of fat eaten do not 
necessarily have any marked influence upon the completeness 
with which it is digested and absorbed. Thus in a series of 
twelve digestion experiments conducted by Milner and pub- 
lished in the Report of the Storrs (Connecticut) Agricultural 
Experiment Station for 1905 (pages 1 31-138) in which the 
amounts of fat eaten per man per day ranged> from 91 to 186 
grams, the coefficients of digestion of the fat varied only from 
95.5 to 97.9 per cent. 

While it is true that the average consumption of fat is not 
excessive and that those who need an especially abundant fuel 
supply can use with advantage amounts of fat much greater 
than the average, it is probably also true that many persons of 
only average activity and energy requirement are using consid- 
erably more than the average amount of butter, which as 
already stated amounts to less than an ounce per person per day. 
A consumption of one pound of butter per person per week is 
more than twice the average amount, but instances of families 
in which butter is thus liberally used will doubtless be familiar 
to many of the readers of this book. In such instances, it will 
be well to consider whether some of the money spent for butter 
might not more wisely be expended for milk. 

A pound of butter is equal in energy value to 5 quarts of 
milk, but in view of the proteins and ash constituents which the 
milk contains, it would probably be wise to consider that 3 
quarts of milk fully equal i pound of butter as an asset in the 
dietary, except perhaps in those cases in which the energy prob- 
lem distinctly predominates. To pay much if any more for a 
pound of butter than for 3 quarts of milk will usually mean 
either that an extravagant price is being paid for butter or that 
the milk used is below the quality which the consumer can 
afford and should demand. 



394 FOOD PRODUCTS 

If any considerable number of consumers should decide to buy- 
less butter and more milk, the diminished demand for butter and 
increased demand for milk would result in bringing to market 
some of the milk now used for butter-making. This would not 
appreciably disturb agricultural conditions and would plainly 
tend toward a better conservation of resources for the com- 
munity as a whole, because under present conditions the 
skimmed milk of the butter factories is not generally utilized 
to good advantage. Economically therefore the making of 
butter should, for the most part, be carried on in regions which 
are adapted to dairy farming, but too remote from cities and 
towns to send their milk to market, or in districts in which it is 
feasible to make good use of the skimmed milk. 

REFERENCES 
I 

Allen. Commercial Organic Analysis, Vol II. 

Glikin. Chemie der Fette, Lipoide und Wachsarten. 

Hefter. Technologic der Fette und Oele, 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Leathes. The Fats. 

Lewkowitsch. Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils, Fats and Waxes. 

McKay and Larsen. Principles and Practice of Butter-Making. 

Simmons and Mitchell. Edible Fats and Oils. 

Ubbelohde. Handbuch der Chemie und Technologic der Oele und Fette. 

Wilder. The Modern Packing House. 

Wiley. Foods and Their Adulterations. 

Wing. Milk and its Products. 

II 

Alvord. Composition and Characteristics of Butter. Pennsylvania 
Department of Agriculture, Annual Report for 1898, page 558. 

Browne. A Contribution to the Chemistry of Butter Fat. Journal of the 
American Chemical Society, Vol. 21, pages 612-633, 807-827, 975-994 
(1899). 

Cochran. Butter and Butter Adulterants. Journal of the Franklin In- 
stitute, Vol. 147, page 85 (1899). 



EDIBLE FATS AND OILS 395 

Behrend and Wolfs. Butter Fats from Individual Cows. Zeitschrift fiir 
Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 5, pages 689-719 
(1902). 

ToLMAN and Munson. Olive Oil and its Substitutes. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 77 
(1902). 

Crampton. Composition of Process or Renovated Butter. Journal of the 
American Chemical Society, Vol. 25, pages 358-364 (1903). 

Moore. Experiments with Edible Oils. Arkansas Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, Bulletin 78 (1903). 

SwAviNG. Influence of Feeding Cottonseed and Sesame Meal on the Prop- 
erties of Butter Fat. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und 
Genussmittel, Vol. 6, pages 97-115 (1903). 

Walker. Coconuts and Coconut Oil. Philippine Journal of Science, 
Vol. I, pages 58, 117 (1906). 

Amberger. Influence of Food on Composition of Butter Fat. Zeitschrift 
fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 13, pages 614- 
621 (1907). 

GiBBS and Agcaoili. Lard from Wild and Domestic Philippine Hogs and 
the Changes effected by Feeding Copra Cake. Philippine Journal of 
Science, Series A, Vol. 5, page 33 (1910). 

Lindsay, et al. Effect of Feed on Butter Fat. Massachusetts Agricultural 
Experiment Station Report for 1908, pages 66-110; Chemical Ab- 
stracts, Vol. 4, page 1774 (1910). 

MoHLER, Washburn, and Rogers. The Viability of Tubercle Bacilli in 
Butter. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, 26th Annual Report, pages 179-186 (1909). 

Rogers, Berg, and Davis. The Temperature of Pasteurization for Butter 
Making. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, 27th Annual Report, pages 307-326 (1910). 

Klein. The Olive Oil Industry in Portugal. Journal fur Lai;idwirtgchaft, 
Vol. 60, pages 31-73 (1911-1912). 

Marseillaise Peanut Oil Industry. Journal of Industrial and Engineering 
Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 705-706 (1911). 

Wesson. Bleaching of Oil with Fuller's Earth. Journal of Industrial and 
Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, page 126 (191 1). 

Thompson, et al. Normal Composition of American Creamery Butter. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Bulletin 149 (191 2). 

Hunziger. Moisture Control of Butter (Two Parts). Indiana Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletins 159 and 160 (1912). 



396 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Shaw. A New Method for Determining Fat and Salt in Butter, especially 
adapted for Use in Creameries. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Bureau of Animal Industry, Circular 202 (191 2). 

Wesson. The Chemist and the Cottonseed Oil Industry in America. Jour- 
nal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 4, pages 64-65 (191 2). 

Ellis. Hydrogenation of Oils. Journal of Industrial and Engineering 
Chemistry, Vol. 5, pages 95-106 (19 13). 

Rogers, Berg, et al. Factors Influencing the Change in Flavor of Storage 
Butter. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal 
Industry, Bulletin 162 (1913). 

Rogers and Gray. Influence of Acidity of Cream on Flavor of Butter. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal Industry, 
Bulletin 114 (1913")- 

Stepp. Indispensability of Lipoids for Life. Zeitschrift fiir Biologie, Vol. 
59, pages 366-395 ; Vol. 62, pages 405-41? (1912-1913). 

McCoLLUM and Davis. The Necessity of Certain Lipins in the Diet during 
Growth. Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 15, pages 167-176 (1913). 

Osborne and Mendel. The Influence of Butter Fat on Growth. Journal 
of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 16, pages 423-437 (1913) ; see also Volume 
17, pages 401-408 (1914). 



CHAPTER XI 

SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 

The Cane Sugar Industry 

Cane sugar or sucrose, C12H22O11, occurs widely distributed in 
the vegetable kingdom. It is found in the fruits and juices of 
many plants, usually mixed with more or less of the simpler 
sugars, glucose (dextrose) and fructose (levulose). The separa- 
tion of the sucrose is commercially profitable only in the case of 
a plant whose juice is relatively rich in this sugar and contains 
but small proportions of other substances. Only two plants, 
the sugar cane and the sugar beet, play an important part in the 
world's supply of sugar. The manufacture of sugar from the 
juices of the maple tree and of the palm tree are relatively small 
industries whose products enter but little into the world's sugar 
trade. We shall therefore confine our study of the technology 
of the industry to the manufacture of sugar from the cane or the 
beet. The accounts which follow are very largely taken from 
lectures delivered at Columbia University during 191 1 to 19 14 
by Dr. C. A. Browne and Dr. W. D. Home. 

Production of raw sugar from sugar cane.^ The sugar cane, 
which is the oldest and best known sugar-producing plant, grows 
only in tropical and semitropical countries; it resembles in 
many ways the Indian corn, producing a jointed stalk varying 
from 6 to 12 feet or even more in length. The native home of 
the cane is India, and it is mentioned frequently in the old sacred 
books of the Hindoos and in ancient Chinese writings centuries 
before Christ. The Greek soldiers of Alexander the Great saw 

1 Browne, School of Mines Quarterly, April, 191 1, and January, 1913. 
397 



398 



FOOD PRODUCTS 




SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 399 

the sugar cane growing in India at the time of his conquest, and 
brought back stories of the wonderful reed which yielded a juice 
sweeter than honey. The Persians and Arabs carried the culti- 
vation of the sugar cane westward, and we find that sugar was 
both grown and refined in the valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates 
in the tenth century a.d. The Crusaders found sugar cane and 
sugar factories in Syria and Palestine, and brought back samples 
of the product upon their return from the East. The Saracens 
introduced the cultivation of sugar cane into Sicily and the 
Moors into Spain ; the Spaniards in their turn carried the sugar 
cane with them to the New World during their voyages of dis- 
covery and colonization ; and so the sugar cane was carried from 
its original home in India throughout the entire tropical and 
semi-tropical world. 

At present the countries which lead in the production of sugar 
from cane are British India, Cuba, Java, and the United States, 
including Porto Rico, Hawaii, and the Philippine Islands. 

The cane is propagated by planting in plowed furrows the 
tops of the canes of the preceding crop. When the sprouts of 
young cane appear above ground, the fields are cultivated until 
the growth of the cane is well started or until the rainy season 
begins, and then left to grow for varying lengths of time depend- 
ing upon the climatic conditions and custom of the locaUty. In 
Louisiana the whole period of growth is considerably less than a 
year ; in Hawaii the cane is often allowed to grow for practically 
two years. 

The sugar cane, when the crop is ready, is harvested by cutting 
off the stalk as close to the ground as possible, trimming off the 
green tops, and stripping off the leaves (Figs. 27 and 28). These 
and the other agricultural operations of planting, fertilizing, and 
cultivating require a large amount of labor, the expense for which 
makes up about three fourths of the cost of the raw sugar, the 
remaining one fourth being due to the expense of manufacture. 

The composition of the stalks and the expressed juice of the 



400 



FOOD PRODUCTS 




SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



401 



sugar cane vary considerably. The general range of the differ- 
ent constituents as compiled from analyses made in different 
countries is given in the following table (Table 49) : 

Table 49. Composition of Sugar Cane and its Juice (Browne) 



Water 

Dry substance , . . 

Fiber (cellulose, etc.) . 

Sucrose 

Invert sugar . . . 

Ash 

Nitrogenous substances 
Gums, acids, etc. . 
Wax and fat . . . 



Whole Cane 


Cane Juice 


Per cent 


Per cent 


67-75 


80-86 


33-25 


20-14 


10-15 




II-16 


12-18 


0.5-1-5 


0.5-2.0 


0.5-1.0 


0.4-0.8 


0.4-0.6 


0. 1-0.4 


0.2-0.5 


0.3-0.6 


0.4 


0.2 



Individual cases may show variations above or below these 
figures. 

The sugar cane after it is hauled to the factory is first passed 
through mills to remove the juice (Fig. 29). The cane mills are 
of all kinds and types, and range from the crude ox-driven mills 
employed in the Philippines and other primitive countries, to the 
high-power, steam-driven hydraulic nine- and twelve-roller 
mills employed in Cuba, Java, Hawaii, Porto Rico, Louisiana, 
and other countries where the most modern machinery is used. 
In the best-equipped factories the cane is delivered by an end- 
less carrier to huge corrugated crushers, which reduce the stalks 
to a thick blanket of pulpy fiber, removing at the same time some 
50 per cent to 60 per cent of the juice. The crushed stalks pass 
next through a mill of 3 rollers, where still more of the juice is 
removed ; and then through a second, third, and sometimes a 
fourth set of such rollers, the hydraulic pressure upon the rollers 
being increased at each mill in order to remove more and more of 



402 



FOOD PRODUCTS 




SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 403 

the juice. It is also customary to wet the pulp with a thin 
spray of water between the sets of rollers, the water thus soaked 
up facilitating the removal of the residual sugar by the suc- 
ceeding roller. This process of wetting, or maceration, as it is 
called, is highly important, but requires to be carefully con- 
trolled ; the water added must of course be afterwards evapo- 
rated, and the question which the chemist must decide is when 
the cost of evaporation begins to exceed the value of the extra 
sugar recovered. The quantity of water used for wetting the 
fiber is usually about 15 per cent, i.e. 15 parts of water per 100 
parts of normal undiluted juice, although 25 per cent and more is 
sometimes used. With 15 per cent maceration about 90 per cent 
of the sugar in the cane is extracted in the juice ; with 25 per 
cent maceration over 95 per cent of the sugar may be extracted. 
The residue of cane fiber as it leaves the last mill contains about 
45 to 50 per cent moisture and from 3 to 5 per cent sugar, i.e. 
from 5 to 10 per cent of the original sugar in the cane. This 
residue of fiber is called " bagasse " and is burned under the 
boilers ; it constitutes the chief, and in some countries the only, 
supply of fuel for operating the sugar factory. 

The polarization ^ and " purity " of the raw juice are the first 
important factors to be determined in the chemical control of 
a cane sugar factory. The " polarization '^ of the juice will give 
the approximate sugar content ; the dissolved solids in the juice 
are estimated by means of a floating hydrometer called a Brix 
spindle. The polarization of the juice multiplied by 100 and 
divided by the reading of the Brix spindle gives the " purity " 
of the juice. Good cane juices run over 90 per cent purity, 
juices running from 85 to 90 per cent purity are fair, and from 
8o to 85 per cent medium. Juices with a purity below 80 per 
cent are poor and very unsatisfactory to- work. 

1 The term "polarization" implies the estimation of sugar by means of the polar- 
iscope; see, for example, Methods of Organic Analysis, Revised Edition, pages 
79-100. 



404 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



The second step in the manufacture of cane sugar is the 
clarification or purification of the raw juice. The best clarifying 
agent and the one that has been used from time immemorial is 
lime. 

Many methods of using lime are practiced, only one of which 
need be described here. Cane juice as it comes from the mill 




Fig. 30. — Clarifyiag cane juice (American Photo Co., Havana). 



is slightly acid. One method of clarification is to neutralize 
this free acid of the juice by adding lime to slight alkalinity, 
and then to heat to boiling (Fig. 30). The lime combines with 
the organic acids and phosphoric acid of the juice, and the heat 
coagulates the proteins present ; a thick scum of impurities rises 
to the surface, which is skimmed off and the hot juice is run into 
settling tanks, when the suspended impurities settle out, or, more 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



405 



often the juice is passed through filter presses (Fig. 31), and the 
impurities removed in this way. The residue of impurities, 
called " filter press cake," contains the phosphates and nitrog- 
enous matters of the juice and is returned to the canefields as a 
fertilizer. 

In many factories the cane juice is sulphured before liming ; 
sulphur dioxide, produced by burning sulphur, is led into the 




Fig. 31. — Filter presses in sugar factory (American Photo Co., Havana). 



juice to a certain point of acidity ; the free acid is then neutral- 
ized with lime and the juice heated as first described. The 
sulphurous acid has a favorable bleaching effect upon the juice 
and the mechanical separation of the impurities is greatly facili- 
tated by its action. Objections against its employment 'are the 
increase in scale (mostly calcium sulphate) which forms upon the 



4o6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

tubes of the evaporators and the contamination of the molasses 
with sulphites. In some factories phosphoric acid is used with 
the lime. 

In some countries, notably in Java, lime is added to the juice 
to strong alkalinity and the excess of lime then removed by 
means of carbon dioxide. This process of clarification, called 
carbonatation, is the only one used in beet sugar manufacture. 
It works well with cane juices when but little invert sugar is 
present. If the latter occurs in large amounts, the lime forms 
dark-colored soluble compounds which not only give a dark 
colored sugar but interfere seriously with the work of evapora- 
tion and crystallization. Such juices are said to be lime-burnt. 
The tendency at present in cane sugar manufacture is against 
carbonatation and all other methods of strongly alkaline clari- 
fication. 

The third process in the manufacture of cane sugar is that of 
evaporation. In primitive countries and out-of-the-way planta- 
tions evaporation is carried out over the direct fire in open pa ns 
or kettles. The juice is either boiled down in one single kettle 
or passed through a train of pans ; when crystallization of the 
sugar has begun, great care must be exercised that the mass be 
kept in constant motion; otIi££wise the re will ^ e^burning and 
caramelization next to the surface of the evaporator? Such 
caramelization is in fact unavoidable, and all open kettle sugars 
are characterized by a dark color and by an agreeable aromatic 
taste which is preferred by many to that of the pure refined 
sugars. In some countries the cane juice after evaporating to a 
thick, pasty mass is allowed to cool and solidify, just as molasses 
candy hardens after cooling. This solidified mass is called 
concrete sugar and is ground up in mills and marketed as a coarse 
lumpy sugar of very uneven composition. This concrete sugar 
contains of course all the molasses with the soluble impurities of 
the juice. Such sugar constitutes at present almost the sole 
output of the Philippine Islands. It is shipped to this country 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



407 



r 




408 FOOD PRODUCTS 

in mats weighing about 50 pounds and comes in 3 grades which 
contain all the way from 80 per cent to about 90 per cent pure 
sucrose. 

In other primitive countries, especially in parts of South 
America, the juice is not evaporated to concrete, but only to the 
consistency of a thick mush; this mush is run into hogsheads 
having a fine perforated bottom through which the molasses, or 
mother liquor surrounding the crystals of sugar, percolates. 
When as much as possible of the molasses has drained away, the 
residue of sugar is removed and sold as muscovado sugar. This 
is purer than concrete sugar and polarizes sometimes as high as 
92 per cent. It is usually quite moist and for this reason very 
liable to deteriorate. 

In the open kettle process of evaporation there is always 
considerable loss of sugar due to caramelization and inversion 
caused by the high temperature of heating, which may be from 
20 to 30° F. above the boiling point of water. To avoid these 
losses all modern sugar factories employ vacuum evaporators 
which allow evaporation to proceed at a temperature much 
below the boiling point of water and at the same time permit the 
utilization of waste steam from the exhaust of the engines and 
other points about the factory. Vacuum evaporators are 
manufactured in many different forms, and are arranged usually 
in a series of 2, 3, or 4, sometimes even as high as 5 or 6, the 
combination being called double, triple, quadruple, quintuple, 
or sextuple effects. In the first vessel of an effect, a lower 
vacuum is maintained than in the second, a lower in the second 
than in the third, and so on, the temperature of boiling for each 
succeeding vessel is thus progressively reduced. Figure 3 2 shows 
the general arrangement of a triple effect. The steam which is 
evaporated from the juice in the first vessel (or " body ") goes to 
heat the coils of the second, the steam from the second vessel goes 
to heat the coils of the third, the reduction in temperature of 
the steam for each vessel being of course counterbalanced by the 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



409 



greater vacuum and lower temperatures necessary for boiling. 
With a long series of vessels, as in a quadruple, quintuple, or 
sextuple effect, the thin juice in the first body may be boiled 
under atmospheric pressure or even at a few pounds above this ; 
this is necessary in order to get a high enough temperature to 
carry sufficient heat through to the last evaporator. The sub- 




FiG, 33. — Vacuum pans in sugar factory. Operator in foreground using " proof 
stick" to withdraw test portion of contents (American Photo Co., Havana). 

ject of multiple evaporation is a science in itself, and exhaustive 
treatises have been written upon this one single phase of sugar 
manufacture. 

After the clarified juice has been evaporated to a sirup we 
come to the fourth stage of the process of modern sugar making, 
the graining or crystallizing of the sugar. This is accomplished 
in a vacuum pan (Fig. :^s) which is operated in much the same 
way as one of the vessels of an eif ect ; in the case of the vacuum 



4IO FOOD PRODUCTS 

pan, and the same is true with many other effects, the process is 
assisted by connecting the outlet with a vertical condensing 
column 34 feet or more high (often extending above the reof, as 
may be seen in Figs. 35 and 36 beyond). A stream of cold 
water flows through the column, and this serves both by rapid 
condensation of the steam and by the barometric pull of its 
column of liquid to maintain a high degree of vacuum. 

A charge of sirup is first drawn into the vacuum pan ; this 
sirup as it leaves the evaporators has a specific gravity of about 
1.25 (or about 50 per cent solids) and is boiled down in the 
vacuum pan to a specific gravity of 1.50 or about 90 per cent 
solids. The ebullition in the vacuum pan is violent and unless 
the sugar boiler is careful some of the sirup may be carried over 
with the vapor into the condenser; this is called entrainment 
and is a source of frequent losses in sugar manufacture. In all 
modern sugar factories the chemist makes constant examination 
of the condensation water, so that any loss due to this cause 
may be promptly detected and stopped. 

The handling of the vacuum pan requires more skill than any 
other operation of the sugar house ; care must be taken to avoid 
entrainment and care must be taken to build up crystals of 
uniform grain^ox size. The usual practice is to boil down the 
first charge of sirup to what is called " string proof," i.e. to the 
point when a few drops of sirup withdrawn from the pan will 
draw out between the fingers in fine strings or threads. When 
this point is reached, a large charge of fresh cold sirup is drawn 
into the pan, the sudden cooling of the supersaturated contents 
starting the formation of innumerable fine crystals. These 
first crystals constitute the foundation so to speak of all the 
sugars obtained in a given boiling or strike of the pan. The boiler 
aims to build up these crystals without forming new ones ; he 
aims from now on to avoid supersaturation and to avoid sudden 
chilling through drawing in too much sirup at one time. He 
controls his process by drawing out samples every few minutes 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



411 



and examining these upon glass against a light ; if he sees fine 
new crystals appearing among the old ones, he reduces the vacuum 
a little, thus raising the temperature and dissolving this false 
grain as the fine crystals are called. By skillful manipulation, 
which only comes with long practice and experience, the sugar 
boiler is able to build up his crystals to any desired size. The 




Fig. 34. — Horizontal cylindrical crystallizers with mixing tank and 
centrifugals beneath (American Photo Co., Havana). 



usual practice is a crystal about the size of ordinary granulated 
sugar ; in certain localities, however, a large crystal is favored, 
as, for example, in Peru, where the sugar is boiled slowly and for 
a long time, thus building up a very large grain. The attach- 
ment for withdrawing samples of sirup from the vacuum pan is 
called the " proof stick." 

When the vacuum pan is filled with a thick magma of sugar 



412 FOOD PRODUCTS 

crystals, of about the consistency of mortar, the steam is shut 
off, air is admitted, the bottom of the pan opened, and the entire 
contents dumped into a mixer, which keeps the mass in slow 
movement by means of revolving arms. This mixer is situated 
over a row of centrifugal machines ; the mass of crystals (some- 
times called masse cuite from the French, or Fullmass from the 
German) is drawn off gradually in successive charges into the 
centrifugals. The inner walls of the latter are lined with fine 
brass meshing and as the drums are rotated the masse cuite is 
whirled against the meshing, which retains the sugar but allows 
the molasses to pass through. After spinning for a few minutes 
until as much of the molasses is removed as possible, the revolv- 
ing mass of sugar may be sprayed with a fine spray of water or a 
jet of steam in order to remove more of the film of molasses 
which remains adhering to the crystals ; the amount of spraying 
depends upon the whiteness of sugar desired. In Louisiana a 
very pure, white sugar is made by spraying with several sprink- 
lings of water ; such sugar is over 99 per cent pure sucrose, the 
remainder being mostly moisture. In Cuba and Porto Rico 
they aim to make a 96 per cent sugar. In Hawaii and Java 
a sugar testing about 97 per cent is desired. Spraying will, of 
course, dissolve some of the sugar, so that the process is one 
which must be carefully controlled. 

When the molasses has been removed as completely as pos- 
sible, the centrifugals are stopped and the sugar emptied through 
the bottom of the drum into a conveyor, by which it is carried to 
the bagging department, where it is prepared for shipment. The 
raw sugar from the centrifugal contains considerable moisture, 
and in some countries the sugar is dried in revolving drums 
before being bagged. This drying is advantageous for two 
reasons : first, the excess moisture is removed, thus saving the 
cost of transporting water; and, second, the sugar is sterilized 
and protected against the attacks of ferments and bacteria. 
The drying of raw sugar is not practiced in Cuba, Porto Rico, 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



413 




414 FOOD PRODUCTS 

or Louisiana, but is carried out in Java and the Hawaiian 
Islands, where the sugar has to be shipped long distances for 
refining. The storage of undried raw sugar for long periods of 
time is a risky operation, as many speculators in sugar have 
found to their cost. 

The sugar which is made from the pure juice of the cane is 
called " first sugar " and the molasses drained from this sugar 
is called " first molasses." The latter still contains a large 
amount of sucrose, and various processes are used to recover as 
much of this as will crystallize. The first molasses is sometimes 
boiled down again in the vacuum pan and a second crop of sugar 
crystals obtained; this is the second sugar and the molasses 
obtained from this the second molasses. The second molasses 
may be boiled over again and a third sugar obtained, the molasses 
from which is the third or final molasses. Of course, as the sugar 
is removed the impurities become more and more concentrated 
in the molasses, until finally a thick stringy mass is obtained 
which will no longer crystallize. Such a molasses may still 
contain, however, 30 per cent sucrose; there is also present 
about 30 per cent invert sugar, 8 to 10 per cent of ash, 
and 8 to 10 per cent of gums, organic acids, amino com- 
pounds, etc. 

The tendency of modern methods in cane sugar manufacture 
is against the repeated boiling of molasses, and the aim is to get 
as much sugar as possible in one operation. Many processes 
have been devised to attain this end. One method is to take 
the molasses from the first strike of sugar, draw this into the 
vacuum pan with the sirup for the succeeding strike, and boil 
the two down together. The masse cuite from this mixture is 
then run while still hot into large tanks, called crystallizers 
(Fig. 34), where it is kept in slow motion by means of revolving 
arms; as the mass cools and thickens more molasses is drawn 
to keep the proper degree of fluidity. When no more sugar will 
crystallize, as determined by analysis of samples, the contents 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



415 



I 




41 6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

of the crystallizer are spun out in centrifugals and the molasses 
withdrawn from the factory. 

Several of the features above described are shown in Fig. 35. 
In the foreground at the left are the large wheels of the cane 
mill ; at the right is the conveyor which carries away the bagasse. 
In the background a multiple effect evaporator may be seen 
at the center, while slightly to the left is the condensing column, 
which extends through the roof. At the top of each of the con- 
densing columns of the factory in which these photographs were 
taken is a small covered platform easily seen above the roofs in 
Fig. 36. . 

Sugar Refining ^ 

The process of manufacture described above yields " raw 
sugar," which is usually from 95 to 98 per cent pure. The re- 
moval of the remaining impurities constitutes the " refining " 
of the sugar and is usually carried on in places where fuel is 
more abundant than .in the tropical countries where the sugar 
cane is chiefly cultivated, since about 25 pounds of coal are con- 
sumed in refining 100 pounds of sugar. The difference in price 
between raw and refined sugar is usually 0.7 to 0.9 cent per 
pound and the cost of refining is estimated at 0.6 to 0.65 cent per 
pound, leaving a margin of profit so small that it is necessary 
for the operation to be conducted on a large scale in order to 
make it remunerative. In'^ the United States the industry 
is carried on in a relatively small number of large establish- 
ments in or near the principal ports on the Atlantic and 
Pacific coasts. 

Nearly all of the three million tons of sugar brought into the 
United States ^ annually is refined in about 20 establishments. 
Thus the average output of the refineries now in operation is 

1 Home, School of Mines Quarterly, April, igii. 

2 At present (1913-1914) about three fourths of the sugar used in the United 
States is imported ; that produced in the country (about one fourth) is for the most 
part refined at the point of production. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 417 

about 1,000,000 pounds of sugar per day each, some establish- 
ments having a much larger output than this. 

In principle the refining process consists in washing off as 
much as is practicable of the molasses which adheres to the 
crystals of raw sugar, then dissolving the crystals, purifying 
and decolorizing the solution as thoroughly as possible, and 
recovering the sugar in a purified state by recrystallization. 
While the process is simple in principle, the large scale upon 
which it must be carried out and the extreme precautions neces- 
sary to guard against apparently small losses if the industry is 
to be economically successful require elaborate equipment and 
constant chemical control. 

As the sugar, either in granular form or in solution, is passed 
through a number of operations in a continuous stream, it is 
found advantageous to build the refineries several stories high 
so that after the first lifting of the material its transportation 
from place to place for the successive steps of the processes 
may be effected chiefly by gravity. 

The raw sugar is usually carried to the top of the building by 
means of a bucket elevator and washed by mixing with a small 
amount of sugar sirup and then separating in centrifugals, the 
sugar in the centrifugal being sometimes sprinkled with a little 
water for further purification. 

After this washing the sugar usually has a purity of about 
99, i.e. of the total solids in the moist sugar about 99 per cent 
is sucrose. 

The sugar is then dissolved in hot water, this step being 
technically known as melting the sugar. The " melting " 
process is accomplished by running the sugar into water con- 
tained in steam-heated pans, the proportions and the heating 
being so regulated as to obtain a solution of 28 to 30° Baume 
and a temperature of 150° to 170° F. A higher temperature 
might result in darkening the solution by slight decomposition 
of some of its constituents. 
2 E 



4i8 FOOD PRODUCTS 

The hot solution then goes to the blowups for clarification, 
which is accomplished by adding a very small amount of acid 
calcium phosphate and then enough milk of lime to make the 
mixture neutral or very faintly alkaline. The precipitate thus 
formed carries down such impurities as gums and proteins, as 
well as suspended particles, and also removes a part of the color- 
ing matter. The precipitate is removed by running the liquid 
through Taylor filters, which consist of twilled cotton bags about 
six feet long encased in strong, coarse-meshed hempen sheaths. 
' A single filter box may contain 400 or more of these bags, each 
attached to the filter head by means of a metal bell and socket. 
The bags soon become clogged and so require frequent changing 
and washing ; the wash water must be utilized in such ways as 
to avoid either a loss of sugar or a waste of fuel in evaporating 
more water than is necessary. 

The filtrate from the bags is clear but not colorless. Most of 
the color is removed from this filtrate by passing it through 
boneblack filters. These are large, strong iron cylinders, often 
10 feet in diameter and 20 to 30 feet high, filled with boneblack 
through which the sugar solution fiows very slowly, usually 
at about the rate of one foot per hour. On account of the im- 
mense amounts of boneblack required in a modern refinery, this 
part of the process requires very careful control in order to use 
the boneblack or " char " as economically as possible. Freshly 
charred boneblack removes the color from the sugar solution 
almost completely, but with accumulation of impurities in the 
pores of the char it naturally becomes less effective until finally 
the filtrate shows so much color that it must be re-treated and 
the boneblack must be washed and sent to the " char house " 
for reburning. Every reburning or " revivifying " leaves the 
pores of the boneblack somewhat clogged by the added carbon 
from the absorbed impurities, so that after 10 or 12 reburnings 
it is no longer economical to use. In the Weinrich oxidizing 
revivifier the reburning is carried out with a limited supply 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 419 

of air designed to burn out the carbon of the impurities but not 
that of the original char, and thus to prolong the usefulness of 
the boneblack. 

The sugar solution which has passed the boneblack filter, and 
is both clear and practically colorless, is evaporated in vacuum 
pans of 1000 to 2000 cubic feet capacity, wherein the sugar 
solution is " boiled to grain " and concentrated to a low water 
content. In order to accomplish this satisfactorily a vacuum 
is first created in the pan, some sugar solution admitted, and 
steam then passed through the heating coils and the solution 
concentrated until supersaturated. The exact point to which 
the concentration should be carried is determined by an ex- 
perienced workman, who withdraws samples from the pan by 
means of a " proof stick," which is a long brass rod sliding 
through an air-tight fitting in the side of the pan and carrying 
a cup-like depression by means of which a small sample of the 
liquid in the pan can be removed without disturbing the vacuum. 
The test portion thus withdrawn from the pan is examined 
by drawing between the thumb and finger, and, when the 
exact degree of viscosity necessary to insure the immediate 
production of " grain " is found, more of the sugar solution is 
admitted to the pan, thus chilling its contents and starting the 
crystallization, which is then continued as in the corresponding 
operation of raw sugar production described above, until the 
pan is charged with a magma of crystals and mother liquor, 
which is then dropped into the mixer on the floor below. 

In the mixer or crystallizer the mass is thoroughly stirred 
while cooling and is then allowed to fall into the centrifugals, 
where the mother liquor, usually known as refinery sirup rather 
than molasses, is thrown out through the perforated walls of 
the rotating drum, leaving the mass of crystals, which is sprayed 
lightly with water for the further removal of the sirup, and 
usually with a solution of ultramarine or " permitted " blue 
dyestuff in order to offset the tendency toward a slightly yel- 



420 FOOD PRODUCTS 

lowish color due to the very minute trace of mother liquor 
which still adheres to the crystals. 

The washed sugar from the centrifugals is either barreled 
directly as " confectioner's sugar," pressed into cubical or domino 
form, or sent to the granulator to be made into the ordinary- 
granulated sugar of commerce. 

The granulator is a long inclined revolving cylinder heated 
by a current of hot air and provided with paddles to keep the 
sugar stirred and screens to separate the crystals into standard 
sizes. After granulation and sifting the sugar is barreled and 
sent into commerce. 

The Beet Sugar Industry 

About the middle of the eighteenth century Margraf suc- 
ceeded in separating about 6 per cent of sugar from beets, and 
later (1769) Archard in Austria established the first beet sugar 
factory; but the beet sugar industry first became of commercial 
importance when the European supply of imported sugar was 
shut off by the blockade established during the Napoleonic 
war. The industry is commonly considered as dating from 
about 1810. 

At about this same time the polariscope was developed into 
a practicable apparatus for determining sugar, and it became 
possible to test individual sugar beets, and plant for seed the 
ones of highest sugar content. By breeding systematically 
with constant chemical control, the average sugar content of 
the beet has been more than doubled, beets showing 16 to 18 
per cent of sugar being now not uncommon, while in some cases 
from 20 to 24 per cent of sugar has been found. The sugar beet 
thrives in temperate climates. For the year 1912-1913 the 
countries showing largest production of sugar from beets were 
(in order) : (i) Germany, (2) Austria, (3) Russia, (4) France, 
(5) the United States. 

Beets of medium size are usually of better quality than large 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



421 



ones. The average composition of the sugar beet and its juice 
is given by Browne as follows (Table 50) : 

Table 50. Composition of Sugar Beet and its Juice (Browne) 



Water 

Dry substance . . . 

Fiber (cellulose, etc.) . 

Sucrose 

Invert sugar . . . . 
Ash (salts) . . . . 
Nitrogenous substances 
Gums, acids, etc. . . 
Wax, fat, etc. . . . 



Sugar Beet 


Sugar Beet Juice 


Per cent 


Per cent 


75-85 


78-84 


15-25 


16-22 


4-6 




12-16 


13-17 


0.0-0.3 


0.0-0.3 


0.8-1. s 


0.6-1.0* 


I-5-2.5 


0.8-1.5 


0.4-o.S 


0.3-0.6 


0.2 





It will be noted, that there is more water and less fiber in the 
sugar beet than in the sugar cane ; there is also more ash (or 
salts) and more nitrogenous matter, but much less invert sugar, 
in the beet than in the cane. These differences in composition 
have an important bearing upon the differences in process of 
manufacture. 

The beets, after they are dug and have had their green tops 
removed, are hauled to the factory ; they are first washed to 
remove adhering dirt and then passed over knives which reduce 
them to fine slicings or chips. 

The fine slicings are next carried by a conveyor to the diffusion 
battery, which consists of a ^ries of tall boiler-shaped cylinders 
called cells. These cells are connected by pipes, the outlet 
from the top of one cell passing downward into the bottom of 
the next and so on around. Each cell is filled with beet slicings 
through a manhole at the top and when full is tightly closed with 
a cover which is clamped into place. Twelve cells connected 
in series usually constitute a battery, and when all are filled, 



422 FOOD PRODUCTS 

warm water of about 80° C. is passed through the system. The 
water circulating upwards through each cell removes the sugar 
from the beet slicings and becomes richer and richer in sugar 
with each succeeding cell. Heaters are placed between the 
cells so that the circulating water is kept always at the right 
temperature. When the water has made a complete circuit 
through the 12 cells of the battery, the slicings in the first cell 
are practically exhausted; this cell is then thrown out of cir- 
culation, emptied of exhausted chips, refilled with fresh slicings, 
and reconnected with the system, while the second cell under- 
goes replenishirig. The process is thus a continuous one; 
10 cells are always in circulation, while one is always being 
emptied and one always being refilled. 

The exhausted slicings from the diffusion cells are dried by 
the heat of the flue gases from the boilers and are then sold as 
a cattle food. 

The diffusion juice as it leaves the last cell of the battery 
contains from 12 to 15 per cent sugar and is ready for clari- 
fication. The juice is first treated with a considerable excess 
of lime, and the dissolved lime precipitated by leading in a stream 
of carbon dioxide. This process is called " carbonatation." 

After the first treatment with lime and carbon dioxide the pre- 
cipitated calcium carbonate and other impurities are filtered off in 
filter presses and the juice subjected to a second carbonatation. 

The juice from the second carbonatation is again filtered, 
when it is evaporated, grained, and centrifugaled, these processes 
being carried out essentially as described for cane juice. 

There is a great difference in tl\^ physical properties of raw 
cane sugar and raw beet sugar. Raw cane sugar has usually 
a fragrant odor and a pleasant taste which many prefer to the 
refined product, while raw beet sugar has a bitter and nauseating 
taste and an odor suggestive of glue. 

In this country beet sugar is usually refined in the same 
factories in which it is extracted from the beets. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



423 



Development and Extent of the Sugar Industry as a Whole 

In the above outlines of the production of sugar from cane 
and from beets the development of these industries has been 
briefly mentioned. Speaking generally, the beet sugar industry 
has been developed more quickly and more scientifically. Until 
1 8 10 there was no beet sugar industry, and in 1852, of the world's 
supply, the cane furnished six times as much sugar as the beet ; 
but under the application of strict scientific control the beet 
sugar industry developed until, in 1884, the production of sugar 
from the two sources was about equal. By 1899 almost twice 
as much sugar was made from beets as from cane, largely, how- 
ever, because the sugar industry in Cuba had been almost ex- 
tinguished by war. Since the restoration of peace in Cuba, 
modern methods have beisn introduced into the cane sugar in- 
dustry there, as was already being done in Hawaii, Java, and other 
cane-growing countries. In 1907 the production of sugar from_ 
beets and from cane was again about equal and has remained 
approximately so. The world's production for the year 191 2- 
1913 is estimated at 18,144,638 tons, of which 9,178,574 tons 
were attributed to the cane and 8,968,064 tons to the beet. The 
production of each of the ten leading countries for the same year 
is given by Browne as follows : 



(i) Germany . 

(2) British India 

(3) Cuba . . 

(4) Austria . 

(5) United States and its 

Colonies . 
Russia . 
Java . 

France . ^ . 
Holland 



(6) 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
(10) Belgium 



2,700,913 tons 
2,583,600 tons 
2,428,537 tons 
1,901,615 tons 

1,770,837 tons 

i,374,5op tons 

1,331,180 tons 

960,900 tons 

316,177 tons 

298,584 tons 



1,146,773 
624,064 



(beet) 
(cane) 
(cane) 
(beet) 
(cane) 
(beet) 
(beet ) 
(cane) 
(beet) 
(beet) 
(beet) 



Of the sugar attributed to the " United States and its Colonies " 
somewhat more than half was produced in Hawaii, Porto Rico, 



424 FOOD PRODUCTS 

and the Philippines, and somewhat less than half (about 800,000 
tons) in the continental United States. 

The total amount of sugar used in the continental United 
States is nearly 4,000,000 tons or 8,000,000,000 pounds, or 
about 85 pounds per capita, annually. 

Only England and Denmark show an apparently larger per 
capita consumption of sugar than the United States. Since 
England exports considerable quantities of jams and marmalade, 
and Denmark of sweetened condensed milk, and the sugar enter- 
ing into these products is not deducted in estimating the apparent 
per capita consumption, there is some doubt whether the actual 
per capita consumption is larger in any other civilized country 
than in the United States. 

The money value of the sugar consumed in the United States 
is usually about $400,000,000 per year. 



By-products of Sugar Manufacture 

The use of molasses and refinery sirup as human food will 
be considered later. The following account of the agricultural 
and industrial utilization of other by-products is condensed 
from a paper by Browne in the School of Mines Quarterly for 
July, 1913. 

It may be stated as a general rule of all manufacturing that the number of 
by-products and the means for their utilization increase with the improve- 
ments in technical processes. This is particularly the case with the sugar 
industry. 

The by-products of sugar manufacture in the more progressive countries 
are so numerous that it is possible to cover the field of their utilization only in 
the most superficial manner. In treating our subject we shall find it in many 
ways more convenient to subdivide it according to the character of by- 
product, as follows : 

1. The utilization of the cellular refuse of beet and cane. 

2. The utilization of the impurities removed in clarification. 

3. The utilization of the waste molasses. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 425 

Utilization of the Cellular Refuse, of Beet and Cane 

In discussing this topic, we must bear in mind the differences between the 
physiological structure of these two plants, and also the differences in method 
of extracting the sugar. 

The pulp that remains in the diffusion batteries after washing out the sugar 
from the sliced beets forms an important by-product which is also used for 
feeding cattle. If there is a large cattle farm or ranch near the sugar factory, 
the wet pulp can be fed out just as it is emptied from the diffusion cells. 
The farmers who supply a sugar factory with beets frequently stipulate for a 
return of the beet pulp for feeding purposes, and a considerable amount of 
the pressed pulp is sent out from the sugar factories in freight cars, frequently 
to a distance of 50 or even 100 miles. 

When local conditions are unfavorable for feeding the pulp or converting it 
into ensilage, many factories dry the pulp, using for this purpose the heat of 
the flue gas escaping from the boilers. The dried beet residue consists of a 
crisp brittle material which is packed in bags and sold as a cattle food ; it is 
much relished by farm animals. 

In the cane sugar industry a large amount of waste cellular matter also 
results from the harvesting and milling of the crop. The leafy portion of 
the cane top is sometimes fed to farm animals. In Louisiana, owing to the 
limited period of harvest and the haste to get the cane all pressed before 
winter, no time is available for utilizing the cane tops ; they are therefore left 
upon the ground and are afterwards burned. 

The bagasse, or cellular matter of the cane stalk, which is left after milling, 
is a very important by-product and many schemes have been proposed for its 
utilization. In most cane-producing countries the bagasse is used as a fuel 
to supply steam for the engines and heat for the evaporators. In many 
places the bagasse is the only supply of fuel available, and when this is the 
case other methods of utilization are impracticable. Bagasse, as it leaves the 
cane mill under good systems of extraction, contains about 50 per cent mois- 
ture and in this condition has a fuel value about one quarter that of soft coal. 
The employment of bagasse as fuel has appeared to many a very wasteful 
procedure, and attempts have been made to use it in the manufacture of 
paper. 

Under good conditions of manufacture, four tons of wet bagasse will give 
one ton of paper. 

In this connection mention should be made of a new process which is being 
tried at present, which, if successful, promises to revolutionize present 
methods of sugar manufacture. This process consists in shredding the cane 
near the fields where it is cut, drying the shredded stalks, pressing the sub- 



426 FOOD PRODUCTS 

stance into compact bales, and shipping it to factories in the United States 
or elsewhere. The dry material is there extracted with water in diffusion 
batteries, and the sugar which is washed out is manufactured directly into 
refined sugar. The residue of fiber, in another department of the same fac- 
tory, is made into paper. The sugar world is watching the developments of 
this new experiment with great interest. 

Utilization of Impurities removed in Clarification 

The quantity of filter-press cake obtained in sugar manufacture varies 
greatly according to the amount of lime and other agents used in clarifica- 
tion, and according to the purity of the juices. The amount of wet press- 
cake obtained in Java by the ordinary process of clarification was found to be 
about I per cent of the weight of cane ; the press-cake contained about 70 
per cent of moisture and 10 per cent of sucrose, whence the actual amount of 
impurities removed from the juice is only about 0.2 per cent of the weight 
of the cane. The material consists of fine particles of bagasse ground off 
in milling, with an admixture of wax, proteins, gums, calcium sulphate and 
phosphate, iron oxide, and alumina, and considerable earthy matter which 
was brought in on the cane stalks from the field. 

Where the carbonatation process of clarification is used, as is the case with 
beet-sugar manufacture, the press-cake is mostly calcium carbonate, the re- 
mainder consisting of the wax, proteins, gums, etc., found in the ordinary 
press-cake. 

Great benefit has been derived from the use of filter-press cake as a fertili- 
zer, the nitrogen existing in a form which is readily available. The excess of 
calcium carbonate in carbonatation cake has also been found beneficial upon 
certain soils. 

Utilization of Waste Molasses 

The word molasses has many shades of meaning ; chemically speaking, we 
may consider it as the sugar factory mother liquor from which a part of the 
sucrose has been crystallized. The molasses from the first crystallization 
may yield, upon evaporation, a second crop of sugar crystals, and the 
molasses from this may even yield a small amount of impure third sugar. 
The approximate average composition of beet and cane molasses, from which 
no more sucrose will crystallize, is given in the following table : 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



427 





Beet Molasses 


Cane Molasses 


Water 

Sucrose 


20% 

50 

Trace 

10 (5%K20) 

10 (2-%N) 

10 


20% 

30 

30 

8 

2 
10 




Invert sugar 

Salts 


(4%K20) 
(0.4 %N) 


Nitrogenous 
Gums, acids. 


substances . 
etc. . . . 




100 


100 



It is seen from the table that beet molasses is distinguished from cane 
molasses by a higher percentage of sucrose, by a much higher percentage of 
nitrogenous substances, and by a comparative absence of invert sugar. 

The table shows 5 per cent of potash and 2 per cent of nitrogen in beet 
molasses and 4 per cent of potash and 0.4 per cent of nitrogen in cane 
molasses ; these figures suggest at once that molasses might have some value 
as a fertilizer ; and such in fact has been demonstrated to be the case upon 
certain kinds of soil, more especially those deficient in humus. The applica- 
tion of molasses to other soils, however, has caused an acid fermentation with 
souring of the soil and loss of fertility, so that this method of utilizing 
molasses is not uniformly successful. But the greatest objection against this 
use of molasses is its wastefulness. There are more profitable methods of 
using the sugar and other organic solids of molasses than employing them as a 
supply of humus. 

A second use for molasses is as a fuel. Molasses containing 20 per cent 
moisture has a thermal value about three eighths that of coal. By means of 
specially constructed furnaces it is possible to secure a perfect combustion 
of the carbonaceous matter of molasses, 8 lb. of molasses supplying the same 
heat as 3 lb. of coal. A residue of ash, very rich in potash, is left, and this 
can find a use either as fertilizer or as a raw material for making potash salts. 

Molasses, as we have seen, contains 50 per cent or more of sugar, and the 
use of such a valuable food material as a fuel is wasteful if other more profi- 
table means of its disposal are available. Unquestionably the most perfect 
utilization of molasses is as a food. The odor of beet molasses is enough to 
convince one that it is unfit for human consumption. Waste cane molasses 
is much more palatable ^ . . . and its use as a stock food, whether for work- 
ing animals, for milk production, or for fattening, is attended with splendid 



1 For discussion of molasses as human food see later sections of this chapter. 



428 FOOD PRODUCTS 

results, provided overfeeding, which might cause derangement of the digestive 
system, is avoided. The higher percentage of salts in beet molasses renders 
it somewhat less desirable as a cattle food than cane molasses. 

The stable manure from animals fed upon molasses contains the valuable 
potash and nitrogen of the latter, and the use of such manure as a fertilizer 
has all the advantages and none of the disadvantages which result from the 
direct apphcation of molasses to the soil. 

From the sugar manufacturer's viewpoint, the dried leaves and pulp of 
the sugar beet and the bagasse of the sugar cane make most excellent and 
convenient materials for preparing molasses feeds. By combining them with 
molasses in suitable proportions a successful utilization of two by-products is 
accomplished in one operation. The percentage of molasses in mixed 
molasses feeds, according to analyses by Halligan, varies from lo to 60 per 
cent. If more than 25 per cent of molasses is used, the feed must be heated 
in driers to remove the excess of moisture, which should not exceed 1 2 per cent. 
If too much moisture is present, the feed becomes sticky and is very liable to 
spoil through fermentation. 

One of the most common methods of using molasses is the manufacture 
of alcohol and rum. In many tropical countries the sugar house and dis- 
tillery are side by side, and the chemist is required to have a practical knowl- 
edge of fermentation and distilling as well as of sugar manufacture. 

In manufacturing alcohol from molasses, the latter is first diluted to a sugar 
content of about 12 per cent. This solution, or " wash," is usually acidified 
slightly with sulphuric acid to prevent the growth of injurious bacteria, and 
then, after adding yeast, is fermented until no further decrease in density is 
observed. The fermented liquid is then distilled and the alcohol or rum 
collected in receivers. 

Two gallons of cane molasses should give a yield of one gallon 180-proof 
alcohol (90 per cent strength) which is the usual standard for denaturing. 
Such alcohol, according to the last quotations, has a commercial value of 
38 c. per gallon. The cost of manufacture may be set at 8 c. a gallon, which 
leaves 30 c. as the value of the raw molasses, or 15 c. per gallon. Sugar-cane 
molasses in tank cars, according to the last New Orleans quotations, has a 
commercial value of 6 c. a gallon, so that there is a profit of about 9 c. a gallon 
in operating a molasses distillery, provided the output of denatured alcohol 
finds a ready market, which at present is not always the case. The present 
high price of denatured alcohol prevents its competing with gasoline, and 
other petroleum products, as a source of power, light, or fuel. 

In tropical countries the distiller of molasses must turn his attention almost 
entirely to the manufacture of rum. 

Although we may not advocate its use as a beverage, rum is a commercial 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 429 

product which the food chemist is called upon to inspect, analyze, and in 
other ways to reckon with. A few words may therefore be devoted to the 
methods peculiar to rum manufacture. Rum is valued not simply by its 
alcohol content but also by its flavor. 

The flavor of rum is due to the presence of alcoholic esters of acetic, butyric, 
and other higher fatty acids; the first requirement in the production of 
flavor is the formation of the acids for esterification. 

Acetic acid is prepared by allowing cane juice, skimmings from the 
clarifiers of the sugar house, and other refuse, to undergo an alcoholic fer- 
mentation, and then pumping the liquid on to cane trash in cisterns. An 
acetic fermentation sets in, just as when cider is poured over shavings in the 
quick vinegar process, and the solution becomes strongly acid. 

For the production of butyric, caprylic, and the other fatty acids, a putre- 
factive fermentation is necessary, and this is carried out by dumping the 
dead yeast from the stills, cane refuse, lees from the retorts, and other adven- 
titious matter, into a receptacle called the " muck hole." A putrefactive 
fermentation sets in with formation of butyric and other fatty acids. To 
neutralize the excess of free acid, which would retard fermentation, powdered 
marl is added from time to time. When the liquid in the m-uck hole is ripe, 
it is added to the acid cisterns, the free acetic acid thus liberating the butyric 
and other acids from their lime salts. The mixture of acids, thus produced, 
constitutes the basis for flavor production. 

In conducting the fermentation, the wash is prepared by mixing molasses, 
skimmings, and cane juice with a certain amount of " dunder," which is the 
spent liquor obtained from the stills after distillation. The dunder is rich in 
nitrogenous compounds and salts, and serves as a nutrient for the growth of 
the yeast. After fermentation has begun, a requisite amount of the acid 
flavoring mixture is added ; a part of the alcohol, formed by the action of the 
yeast upon the sugars, unites with the acids of the flavor to produce ethyl 
acetate, ethyl propionate, ethyl butyrate, and the other higher esters, all 
of which, passing over with the alcohol when the wash is distilled, give the 
resulting rum its characteristic aroma and flavor. High flavored Jamaica 
rum may contain as high as i or 2 per cent of esters, while the low flavored 
rums contain less than half of this amount. Over 95 per cent of the esters 
consists of ethyl acetate; the remainder is principally ethyl butyrate, the 
ester of chief importance as regards flavor production, with small amounts of 
other fatty acid homologues. 

Methods for utilizing sugar-beet molasses. Germany has made the greatest 
advancement in this regard. Of a total production of 400,000 tons of beet 
molasses in Germany, about 55 per cent is desaccharified for sugar production, 
{ibout 30 per cent is used as a cattle food, about 10 per cent is fermented into 



430 FOOD PRODUCTS 

alcohol, and the remaining 5 per cent is utilized in various miscellaneous ways. 
Among the latter we may mention the use of molasses for manufacturing 
dye stuffs, shoe blacking, yeast, molds and briquettes, and numerous other 
commodities. 

The residues from the desaccharification factories,^ best known under its 
German name of molasses schlempe, has been a subject of special study from 
the standpoint of utilization. If we subtract the sucrose from the composi- 
tion of beet molasses given in the previous table, we shall form a fair idea of 
the composition of schlempe. From 1000 kg. of beet molasses are obtained 
about 350 kg. of concentrated schlempe, containing about 30 per cent of 
mineral matter, mostly potash salts, some 20 per cent or more of nitrogenous 
substances, and a remainder of acids, gums, caramelization products, and 
other organic residues. 

Molasses schlempe contains 12 to 15 per cent of potassium and 4 per cent 
or more of nitrogen, and its conversion into derivatives of these elements 
constitutes at present the chief method of utilization. The schlempe is first 
heated in retorts, by which means.it is decomposed into a mixture of volatile 
products consisting of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrogen, nitrogen, 
methane, ammonia, methyl amine, methyl alcohol, water, and other sub- 
stances. The volatile decomposition products- escape from the retorts at a 
temperature of about 400° C. and are led through a system of tubes heated 
to a temperature of about 1000° C. The effect of this heating is to convert 
the volatile nitrogenous compounds into ammonium cyanide. After leaving 
the hot tubes, the gases, which are always kept under reduced pressure, are 
cooled, freed from tar, and then washed over sulphuric acid to break up the 
ammonium cyanide, the ammonium sulphate, which is formed, being re- 
covered. The hydrocyanic acid is then absorbed in water and the residue of 
combustible gases is led back to the furnaces for heating the retorts. The 
hydrocyanic acid is then distilled, and absorbed in sodium hydroxide ; the 
solution of the latter, after evaporating and crystallizing, yields solid sodium 
cyanide. 

By the above method about three fourths of the nitrogen in molasses 
schlempe is recovered as ammonium sulphate and sodium cyanide, the 
remaining one fourth escaping as gaseous nitrogen. A small amount of 
pyridine is also obtained by this process, in connection with the ammonia. 
The residue of mineral matter in the retorts, after distilling the schlempe, is 
worked up into potash, of which some 15,000 tons are made annually in 
Germany from this source. 

^The desaccharification of beet molasses is accomplished by precipitating the 
sucrose as strontium saccharate, which, after separation from the molasses, is 
decomposed by carbon dioxide and the sucrose recovered as commercial sugar. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



431 



Two factories in Germany produce annually, by the process of distillation 
described, about 5000 tons of ammonium sulphate and 5000 tons of sodium 
cyanide, with a commercial value of about $1,750,000. The sodium cyanide 
thus manufactured is nearly all exported to the Transvaal, where it is used 
for extracting gold by the well-known cyanide process. 

Chemists in Germany are making further efforts towards improving the 
utilization of molasses schlempe. By the present methods of distillation 
about one fourth of the nitrogen is lost, and this is wasteful from the stand- 
point of highest economy. It has been felt by some chemists that efforts 
should be made towards removing some of the valuable organic constitutents 
of the schlempe before making the distillation. Among the more important 
of the nitrogenous organic substances we may mention 10 to 12 per cent of 
betaine, 5 to 7 per cent of glutamic acid, i to 2 per cent of leucin and isoleu- 
cin, and various other amino-acids, etc. Search is being made for uses to 
which these substances may be put, and with the discovery of such uses we 
may look for greater refinements in the processes of utilization. 

Molasses, Sirups, Honey 

Molasses was formerly the mother liquor remaining after 
the removal of one crop of sugar crystals from the boiled-down 
juice of the sugar cane. Since the removal of cane sugar by one 
crystallization is far from complete, the molasses thus obtained 
was rich in sucrose and contained also much the greater part 
of the other constituents of the cane juice. Atwater and Bryant, 
in 1896, report the average of (12) American analyses published 
before that date as follows : 

Per Cent 

Water 25.7 

" Protein " (Nitrogen X 6.25) 2.7 

Carbohydrates 68.0 

Ash 3.6 

The introduction of modern methods into sugar house practice 
has tended steadily to remove the sucrose more and more 
completely, with the result that the amount of molasses is 
decreased, its sugar content is lowered, and its content of 
impurities is increased. The term '' impurities " is somewhat 
misleading, since the constituents other than sucrose which cane 



432 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



juice naturally contains are unquestionably of food value; 
in fact, the molasses is a much less one-sided food than the sugar 
removed from it. When, however, the ash constituents and 
amids (or other " nitrogenous extractives ") of the cane juice 
are concentrated to such an extent as in the final molasses of a 
modern raw sugar factory, the product is too strong in flavor to 
be attractive as human food, and may contain such a high 
concentration of salts as to throw doubt upon its wholesomeness 
when eaten in any considerable quantity. To illustrate the 
difference in composition between molasses from successive 
crystallizations of sugar Wiley gives the following typical 
analyses of " first," " second," and " third " molasses, the com- 
position being reduced to a uniform basis of water content : 

Table 51. Composition of First, Second, and Third Molasses 

(Wiley) 



Water .... 
Sucrose (cane sup-ai) 
Dextrose (glucose) 
Levulose (fructose) 
Acids and gums . 
Proteins . . . 
Amids .... 
Ash 



First 


Second 


Molasses 


Molasses 


Per cent 


Per cent 


20.00 


20.00 


53-6o 


41.70 


8.76 


12.20 


8.00 


12.50 


4-50 


6.50 


0.20 


0.2s 


0.94 


1.50 


4.00 


5-35 



Third 
Molasses 



Per cent 

20.00 

31.70 

15.00 

16.50 

8.20 

0.30 

2.00 

6.30 



According to the definitions and standards of the Association 
of Official Agricultural Chemists : Molasses is the product left 
after separating the sugar from masse cuite, melada, mush 
sugar, or concrete, and contains not more than 25 per cent of 
water and not more than 5 per cent of ash. 

This standard would practically confine the term molasses as 
a commercial designation for human food to material of the 
nature of the " first molasses " of modern sugar manufacture. 



I' . 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 433 

Refiner's sirup is, as already explained, the "mother liquor" 
or residual liquid product obtained in the process of refining raw 
sugar. According to the standards of the Official Agricultural 
Chemists, it contains not more than 25 per cent of water and 
not more than 8 per cent of ash. 

This product is also called " sugar refinery molasses " and 
sometimes " sugar-house molasses." The latter expression 
is ambiguous since the term " sugar house " is more commonly 
applied to the raw sugar factory than to the refinery. 

Mixed sirups. Refiner's sirup contains the coloring and 
flavoring substances which distinguish the brown or yellow raw 
cane sugar from the white refined sugar (which latter, as it ap- 
pears in commerce, may have been made either from the cane 
or the beet). The characteristic flavor of the raw cane sugar 
which is thus left in the sirup in the refining process is preferred 
by many people to the mere sweetness of sucrose or glucose. 
Hence the refiner's sirup is in demand for mixing with com- 
mercial glucose sirup (made from corn as described in an earlier 
chapter) for the production of " corn sirup with cane flavor " 
of which it is estimated that about 350,000,000 pounds are con- 
sumed annually in the United States. 

Other mixed sirups are made from commercial glucose or 
corn sirup with refined cane sugar sirup (the product in this 
case being practically colorless), with sorghum sirup made by 
boiling down the juice of the sorghum cane, or with sirups 
made by concentrating the juice of the sugar cane without 
removing any of the sugar. More expensive mixed sirups are 
those made by mixing either glucose or sucrose sirup with 
maple sirup. 

Maple sirup is the most highly prized of all table sirups. It 
is made by evaporating the sap of the sugar maple to such a 
point that the product contains only about 30 per cen t of water. 
The standards of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists 
specify that maple sirup shall contain not more than 32 per cent 
2 F 



434 FOOD PRODUCTS 

of water and not less than 0.45 per cent of maple sugar ash. The 
reason for setting a minimum limit for ash in this case, whereas 
in the case of mqlasses and refiner's sirup the limit is set in the 
other direction, is that the maple sirup is prized for the flavor 
imparted by its " impurities " (constituents other than sugar), 
and there is no likelihood that the maple sap will be subjected 
to any such refining processes as might introduce an excessive 
amount of ash constituents, whereas a low ash content would 
be an indication that the maple sirup had been " extended " 
by diluting with a solution of refined sugar (a not uncommon 
method of adulteration, since refined cane sugar is much cheaper 
than unrefined maple sugar or even than the concentrated maple 
sap). 

The census returns show 4,106,418 gallons or about 40,000,000 
pounds of maple sirup, and 14,000,000 pounds of maple sugar 
made in the United States in 1909. 

Open kettle cane sirup, made by boiling down in open vessels 
the juice of the sugar cane to a consistency similar to that of 
molasses, is said Ho be a common article of food in the Southern 
States. The product contains all the sugars and ash constit- 
uents of the cane juice, and their relative proportions are changed 
only in so far as the sucrose is in part hydrolyzed to glucose 
and fructose, and in part caramelized, giving the sirup a 
reddish tint. 

Honey. Before sugar became a common article of commerce, 
honey was the chief sweetening material in use. Honey con- 
sists chiefly of a mixture of sugars gathered from flowers and 
more or less changed by the honeybee. It is the only common 
food material which contains more fructose than glucose. The 
average of 92 analyses of normal honeys ^ shows : 

^ Wiley's Foods and Their Adulteration. 

2 Browne, United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, 
Bulletin no. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 435 

Per Cent 

Water 17.70 

Sucrose i.go 

Fructose (levulose) 40.50 

Glucose (dextrose) 34-48 

Dextrin 1.51 

Ash 0.18 

Undetermined 3.73 

In some instances genuine honey has been found to contain 
as high as 8 per cent of sucrose ; more than that would usually 
be taken as an indication that the honey is either abnormal or 
adulterated. The differences in flavor are largely due to the, 
characteristic esters (" ethereal " substances) found in the nectars 
of different flowers. 

With the production of sucrose and glucose on a large scale 
and at a low price, honey has become relatively a luxury, and, 
except as prevented by legislation, has been largely adulterated 
with sucrose and glucose sirups. These adulterations are 
readily detected by chemical analysis, since genuine honey almost 
always contains enough fructose (levulose) to make it levo-rota- 
tory to polarized light, whereas both sucrose and commercial 
glucose are dextro-rotatory. Adulteration of honey with 
" invert sugar, '^ a mixture of equal parts glucose (dextrose) and 
fructose (levulose) obtained by hydrolysis of sucrose, is much 
more difficult of detection, since the main constituents of the 
honey and the adulterant are here the same. 

Confectionery 

The term confectionery covers a variety of products, all arti- 
ficial or manufactured, consisting largely of sugar of some kind, 
with flavoring and usually also coloring material either added 
or developed by cooking processes. 

Under the terms of the Food and Drugs Act confectionery 
is adulterated "if it contain terra alba, barytes, talc, chrome 
yellow, or other mineral substance or poisonous color or flavor, 



436 FOOD PRODUCTS 

or other ingredient deleterious or detrimental to health, or any- 
vinous, malt, or spirituous liquor or compound or narcotic drug." 
Since adulterated foods are illegal even if truthfully branded, the 
above provision amounts to a specific prohibition against the 
use in confectionery of any one of the substances named. It is 
of interest to note the prohibition of alcohol in confectionery, 
whereas in ordinary foods and drinks its presence and amount 
are not restricted, and in the case of drugs it is only required 
that the proportion present be stated on the label. In addition 
to these special provisions, the purity of confectionery is further 
protected by all the general provisions of the law against adul- 
teration and misbranding of food, since the term food as used 
in the law is defined as including " all articles used for food, 
drink, confectionery, or condiment." 

Since all confections are artificial products, there is no natural 
guide to the establishment of any direct standards of food 
value, and as yet no standards other than those intended to 
exclude deleterious substances have been established. 

Methods of making the different types of candies and other 
confections do not come within the scope of this work. The 
manufacture of the sugars, sucrose and commercial glucose, 
which are the chief ingredients of confectionery, has already been 
discussed. Perhaps the only other ingredient which is commonly 
used in confectionery in sufficient quantity to have a significant 
bearing upon the food value of the product is chocolate. 

Chocolate is made from the cocoa bean, the seed of Theobroma 
cacao, a tree native to Central America and grown only in 
tropical regions. The seeds are borne in large pulpy fruit, each 
about lo inches long and 4 inches thick and containing 20 to 
40 seeds. At the proper stage of maturity, the fruit is cut from 
the tree, split open, and the seeds (cocoa beans) removed. These 
seeds are sometimes dried at once in the sun, but for the pro- 
duction of a better-flavored product are commonly first allowed 
to undergo a fermentation process. After drying in the sun, 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 437 

the beans are roasted in revolving steel cylinders, after which 
the hulls are removed, by machinery. The beans are then 
crushed and freed from the germs. The roasted and coarsely 
crushed product freed from hulls and germs is known as cocoa 
nibs. The nibs are thoroughly ground in stone mills, the 
material being reduced to a thin paste which on cooling sets 
to a hard cake. This is known as unsweetened or plain chocolate 
and has approximately the composition: 

Per Cent 

Water 3 

Protein 12 

Theobromine i 

Fat 50 

Fiber 3 

Carbohydrates (other than fiber) 28 

Ash 3 

About one half of the fat contained in plain chocolate can be 
removed by pressing. 

The fat thus obtained is a soft solid at ordinary temperatures 
and is known as cocoa butter. 

Breakfast cocoa is obtained by grinding to an exceedingly 
fine powder the residue from which more or less of the cocoa 
butter has been expressed. 

In confectionery sweetened chocolate is often mixed with 
cocoa butter, especially when a glossy chocolate covering for 
candies is desired. 

According to the definitions and standards formulated by the 
Association of Official Agricultural Chemists, and more recently 
(Food Inspection Decision 136, June 191 1) indorsed by the Board 
of Food and Drug Inspection, the names '' chocolate,'' " plain 
chocolate,'' " bitter chocolate," " chocolate liquor," and " bitter 
chocolate coatings " are applied to the solid or plastic mass ob- 
tained by grinding cocoa nibs without removal of fat or other 
constituents except the germ, containing not more than 3 per 
cent of ash insoluble in water, 3.50 per cent of crude fiber and 
9 per cent of starch, and not less than 45 per cent of cocoa fat. 



438 FOOD PRODUCTS 

" Sweet chocolate " and " sweet chocolate coatings " are terms 
applied to chocolate mixed with sugar (sucrose), with or without 
the addition of cocoa butter, spices, or other flavoring materials, 
and contain in the sugar and fat-free residue no higher per- 
centage of either ash, fiber, or starch than is found in the sugar 
and fat-free residue of chocolate. 

Cocoa and powdered cocoa are terms applied to cocoa nibs, 
with or without the germ, deprived of a portion of its fat and 
finely pulverized, and contain percentages of ash, crude fiber, 
and starch corresponding to those in chocolate after correction 
for fat removed. 

Sweet cocoa and sweetened cocoa are terms applied to cocoa 
mixed with sugar (sucrose), and contain not more than 60 per 
cent of sugar (sucrose), and in the sugar and fat-free residue no 
higher percentage of either ash, crude fiber, or starch than is 
found in the sugar and fat-free residue of chocolate. 

Cocoa nibs and cracked cocoa are the roasted broken seeds 
of the cacao tree freed from shell or husk. 

Milk chocolate and milk cocoa, in the opinion of the Board, 
should contain not less than 12 per cent of milk solids, and the 
so-called nut chocolates should contain substantial quantities of 
nuts. If sugar is added, for example, to milk chocolate, it should 
be labeled "sweet milk chocolate," "sweet nut chocolate," etc. 

When cocoa is treated with an alkali or an alkaline salt, as 
in the so-called Dutch process, and the finished cocoa contains 
increased mineral matter as the result of this treatment, but no 
alkali as such is present, the label should bear a statement to 
the effect that the cocoa contains added mineral ingredients, 
stating the amount. Cocoas and chocolates containing an 
appreciable amount of free alkali are adulterated. In the opin- 
ion of the Board, cocoa not treated with alkali is not soluble 
in the ordinary acceptance of the term and after treatment with 
alkali shows essentially the same lack of solubility. To designate 
the alkali- treated cocoa as " soluble " cocoa is therefore held to 
be misleading and deceptive. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 



439 



The manufacture of confectionery has become an industry 
of considerable magnitude. According to the Census of Manu- 
factures the wholesale value of confectionery made in manu- 
facturing establishments in the United States in 1909 was $134- 
796,000. Manufacturers of corn sirup estimate the annual 
production of candy in the United States at about 800,000,000 
pounds and the amount of corn sirup or commercial glucose used 
in making this candy at about 200,000,000 pounds. 

The average composition of miscellaneous sugars, starches, 
and confectionery as estimated by Atwater and Bryant is 
shown in Table 52. The fuel values have been recalculated by 
the use of the modern factors as already explained. 

Table 52. Average Composition of Sugars, Starches, etc. 















si 

2S 


211 

w a « 




t 


Description 




i 


1 


(§ 


1 




Ip 


< 


1, 






Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cal 






cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 




SUGARS, STARCHES, ETC. 




















Candy 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


96.0 


— 


— 


1 74 J 


Honey 


17 


— 


18.2 


•4 


— 


81.2 


— 


.2 


1480 


Molasses, cane .... 


15 


— 


25.1 


2.4 


— 


69-3 


— 


3.2 


1300 


Starch, arrowroot . . . 


I 


— 


2.3 


— 


— 


97-5 


— 


.2 


1770 


Starch, cornstarch . . . 


— 


— 




— 


— 


90.0 


— 





1635 


Starch, manioca . . . 


I 


— 


10.5 


•5 


.1 


88.8 


— 


.1 


1625 


Starch, tapioca .... 


7 


— 


11.4 


.4 


.1 


88.0 


e).i 


.1 


1608 


Sugar, coffee or brown 




















sugar • 


328 


— 


— 


— 


— 


95-0 


— 





1723 


Sugar, granulated . . . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


1 00.0 


— 





1814 


Sugar, maple^ .... 


— 


— 


S-o 


— 


— 


93c 


— 





1O85 


Sugar, powdered . . . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


1 00.0 


— 





1814 


Sirup, maple^ .... 


— 


— 


34-2 


— 


— 


64.0 


— 


— 


1 160 


Chocolate 


2 


— 


5-9 


12.9 


48.7 


30-3 


— 


2-. 2 


2772 


Cocoa 


3 




4.6 


21.6 


28.9 


37.7 


~ 


7.2 


2256 



1 Data from Snell. 



440 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Place of Sugars in the Diet 

Dogmatic statements regarding the proper place of sugars 
in the diet are apt to be seriously misleading. The problem 
is complicated and the evidence in many respects is still 
obscure. 

Until relatively recent times sugar was too expensive to 
be used freely by most people but with the development 
of the industry and the cheapening of the product the con- 
sumption of sugar has increased at an exceedingly rapid 
rate. 

The thoughtful student of food problems must regard this 
development with mixed emotions. The cheapening of a staple 
article of food, which is almost universally popular and which, 
like the refined sugar of commerce, is of uniform and well-known 
composition and practically free from danger of adulteration or 
harmful deterioration, would be a source of great satisfaction 
but for the fact that refined sugar constitutes an extreme case 
of a one-sided food, its sole nutritive function being to serve as 
fuel so that, as the energy requirement of the body is met to 
a larger and larger extent by the consumption of refined sugar 
there is a constantly increasing danger of unbalancing the diet 
and making it deficient in some of the substances which are 
needed for the building and repair of body tissue and f#r the 
regulation of physiological processes. 

The fuel value of sugar is about 1800 Calories per pound, 
so if as estimated the consumption of sugar in the United States 
now amounts to 85 pounds per capita per year, the energy 
obtained from eating sugar must amount to about 420 Calories 
per capita per day. If the per capita energy requirement be 
estimated at about 2000 Calories per day ^ it follows that about 

^ If 3000 and 2400 Calories per day be accepted as the average requirements of 
working men and women respectively, it seems probable that the per capita require- 
ment of the entire population, of which 20.5 per cent are below 15 years of age, will 
not exceed 2000 Calories per day. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 441 

one fifth of the energy requirement is being met by eating sugar 
(of course not all of this sugar appears on the table as such) 
and that the intake of protein, phosphorus, calcium, potassium, 
iron, and other essential elements, and of such important 
though^ imperfectly understood substances as the lipoids and 
vitamines is on the whole about one tenth lower than would 
be the case if the sugar were reduced one half and the energy 
now derived from sugar were supplied by an increased consump- 
tion of the other articles of food. Are we to assume that the 
ordinary dietary of the people of the United States furnishes 
such an abundance of all the essential elements and each specific 
necessary compound that a difference of 10 per cent in the intake 
is of no consequence? The investigations of recent years in- 
dicate clearly that no such assumption is justified. As regards 
some of the elements such as calcium and phosphorus there is 
very little margin of safety in the majority of American dietaries. 
From this standpoint it would be an improvement if without 
other change in dietary habits the sugar consumption were 
reduced, say to one half the present rate, and the same amount 
of energy obtained by increasing the consumption of other food 
materials. 

It is doubtful whether in any other country the increase in 
consumption of refined sugar during the past two or three genera- 
tions has been so rapid as in the United States. The present 
per capita consumption of sugar in several of the chief countries 
of the world is given by Browne as follows : 

Pounds 

England 95 

United States 85 

Germany 49 

• France 43 

Austria 28 

Russia 24 

Turkey 20 

Spain 16 

Italy II 



442 FOOD PRODUCTS 

It will be seen that the per capita consumption of sugar in 
continental Europe is not over half that in the United States. 
England reports a larger per capita consumption but it is to 
be noted that these statistics include both the sugar eaten as 
such and that used in the preparation of manufactured foods. 
Since England exports large amounts of jam, marmalade, and 
other food products containing much added sugar, it may be 
doubted whether the actual per capita consumption of sugar is 
any larger in England than in the United States. 

The objection to the too free use of sugar, on the ground that 
it serves only as fuel and may replace to an undue extent other 
food materials which meet other nutritive requirements, applies 
equally to commercial glucose and to most candy. It does 
not hold to the same extent as regards molasses and those sirups 
which contain the natural ash constituents of the plant juices. 
Probably the most desirable of all materials with which to 
satisfy a desire for sweet-tasting foods are the fruits several of 
which contain from lo to 15 per cent of sugars in the fresh 
state and from 50 to 75 per cent when dried. Some of the ad- 
vantageous characteristics of fruit as food have been discussed 
in Chapter IX. 

In addition to the question to what extent sugar may be 
allowed to displace other foods without danger of making the 
diet one-sided, there are several other considerations which 
should be kept in mind in attempting to assign to sugar its 
proper place as a food. 

Sucrose entering the blood as such is not utilized; only the 
products of digestion are normally absorbed into the body. 
The digestion of sugar is a relatively simple process since it 
involves only one hydrolysis. This digestive hydrolysis, how- 
ever, is not effected until the sugar reaches the intestine. Hence 
nearly all the sugar eaten remains as such in the stomach unless 
it is decomposed there by the action of micro-organisms. Herter 
found that cane sugar is more apt to undergo fermentation in 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 443 

the stomach than is milk sugar. The products yielded by the 
more common types of fermentation, of which lactic acid is 
perhaps the best example, are not in any ordinary sense poison- 
ous but may be irritating when formed in large amount. Aside 
from the question of fermentation, sugar is often directly irritat- 
ing to the stomach, for unless much diluted with other food or 
with water it is likely in some part of the stomach to furnish 
a sugar solution of sufficient concentration to result in a distinct 
abstraction of water from the mucous membrane. The effect of 
such abstraction of water from the mucous membrane on a small 
scale is easily observed by holding a piece of hard candy in one 
side of the mouth for some time without moving it. When the 
same action takes place on a much larger scale in the stomach 
and especially when, from frequent free use of sugar, it occurs 
repeatedly, some injury to the stomach must be anticipated. 

The fact that sugar may have a disturbing influence upon 
digestion does not imply that the sugar itself is at all likely to 
escape digestion. The readiness with which sugar is hydrolyzed 
by the sugar-splitting enzyme of the intestinal juice combined 
with the susceptibility of sugar to the attack of bacteria makes 
it unlikely that much sugar will pass through the digestive 
tract unchanged. In a recent bulletin of the United .States 
Department of Agriculture,^ Mrs. Abel cites experiments in 
which 5 ounces of sugar per day, fed to healthy men as part 
of a simple mixed diet, showed an average digestibility of 98.9 
per cent. According to the same authority 3 or 4 ounces per day 
" seem to be digested by the healthy adult without difficulty." 

Athletes and farm laborers at hard work have in many in- 
stances been observed to take large quantities of sugar, often 
as lemonade or in admixture with other fruit juices, without 
any apparent ill effects. In such cases the sugar is employed 
to furnish the extra energy required for the muscular activity 
and so does not necessarily tend toward a sub-normal intake 

1 Farmers' Bulletin 535, June, 1913. 



444 FOOD PRODUCTS 

of the foods which are valuable for their ash constituents as well 
as their energy. In fact when the sugar is taken with fruit 
juices the consumption of the latter may thereby be increased. 

The paragraphs which follow are taken from Mrs. Abel's 
general conclusions in the Government bulletin referred to above. 

One may say in general that the wholesomeness of sweetened 
foods and their utiHzation by the system is largely a question of 
quantity and concentration. For instance, a simple pudding 
flavored with sugar rather than heavily sweetened is considered 
easy of digestion, but when more sugar is used, with the addition 
of eggs and fat, we have as the result highly concentrated forms 
of food, which can be eaten with advantage only in moderate 
quantities and which are entirely unsuited to children and 
invalids. 

It is true that the harvester, lumberman, and others who do 
hard work in the open air consume great amounts of food con- 
taining considerable quantities of sugar, such as pie and dough- 
nuts, and apparently with impunity; but it is equally true 
that people living an indoor life find that undue amounts of 
pie, cake, and pudding, with highly sweetened preserved fruit, 
and sugar in large amounts on cooked cereals, almost always 
bring indigestion sooner or later. 

From a gastronomic point of view it would seem also that 
in the American cuisine sugar is used with too many kinds of 
food, with a consequent loss of variety and piquancy of flavor 
in the different dishes. The nutty flavor of grains and the 
natural taste of mild fruits are very often concealed by the addi- 
tion of large quantities of sugar. 

REFERENCES 

I 

Abel. Sugar as Food. United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' 

Bulletin 535. 
Blakey. The United States Sugar Beet Industry. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 445 

Browne. Handbook of Sugar Analysis. 

Classen. Beet Sugar Manufacture (translated by Hall and Rolfe). 

Deerr. Cane Sugar Manufacture. 

Deerr. Sugar and the Sugar Cane. 

Ellis. An Introduction to the History of Sugar as a Commodity, 

Geerlings. Cane Sugar and its Manufacture. 

Geerlings. The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present. 

LiPPMANN. Chemie der Zuckerarten. 

Rogers and Aubert. Industrial Chemistry. 

Thorpe. Outlines of Industrial Chemistry. 

Tollens. Handbuch der Kohlenhydrate. 

Walker. The Sugar Industry in the Philippine Islands. 

Ware. Beet Sugar Manufacture and Refining. 

Wichelhaus. Der Starkezucker : Chemische und technologisch behandelt. 



II 

Browne and Blouin. The Chemistry of the Sugar Cane and its Products 

in Louisiana. Louisiana Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 91 

(1907). 
Browne. Chemical Analysis and Composition of American Honeys. 

United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 

no (1908). 
Sy. History, Manufacture, and Analysis of Maple Products. Journal 

Franklin Institute, Vol. 166, pages 249-280, 321-352, 433-445 (1908). 
Zerban. Investigations on the Use of Sulphur and its Combinations in the 

Sugar House. Louisiana Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 

103 (1908). 
CowLES. Suggested Standards for Maple Sugar and Syrup. Journal of 

Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. i, pages 773-775 (iQoq)- 
HoRNE. The Sugar Industry and its Relation to the United States. Jour- 
nal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. i, pages 3-4 (1909). 
Wagner. The American Industry of Corn Products. Journal of the 

Society of Chemical Industry, Vol. 28, pages 343-348 (1909). 
Bryan. Maple Sap Syrup. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 134 (1910). 
Kaufmann. Maize Products and Maize Starch and its Products. Journal 

of the Society of Chemical Industry, Vol. 29, pages 527-531 (1910). 
Shredded Sugar Cane. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, 

Vol. 2, page 558 (1910). 



446 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Browne. The Chemistry of Raw Sugar Production. School of Mines 

Quarterly, Vol. 32, pages 217-234 (191 1). 
Bryan. Composition of Commercial Glucose and Starch Sugars. Journal 

of the Franklin Institute, Vol. 172, pages 337-342 (1911). 
Herstein. Centenary of Glucose and Early History of Starch. Journal of 

Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 158-168 (191 1). 
Horne. Sugar Refining. School of Mines Quarterly, Vol. 32, pages 235-243 

(1911). 
KoppESCHAAR. Requirements of the Beet Sugar Factory as Compared with 

the Cane Sugar Establishment. International Sugar Journal, Vol. 13, 

pages 527, 593 (1911). 
KiJSTENMACHER. Chemistry of the Formation of Honey. Biochemisches 

Zeitschrift, Vol. 30, pages 237-254 (191 1). 
Wachtel. Development of the Sugar Industry. Journal of Industrial 

and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 335-339 (1911). 
Wisconsin Cane Fiber Experiment. Louisiana Planter, Vol. 46, page 39; 

Chemical Abstracts, Vol. 5, page 1205 (191 1). 
Bauer. Effect of Acidity and Time in the Roasting of Dextrins, Original 

Communications, Eighth International Congress of Applied Chemistry, 

Vol. 13, pages 9-14 (191 2). 
Bryan. Composition of Imported Hioneys. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 154 (191 2). 
Bryant. Composition of Commercial Glucose. Original Communications, 

Eighth International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 13, pages 

47-56 (191 2). 
Deerr. Cane Sugar Manufacture in the Hawaiian Islands. Original 

Communications, Eighth International Congress of Applied Chemistry, 

Vol. 8, pages 7-12 (191 2). 
Defren. Presence of Maltose in Acid Hydrolyzed Starch Products. 

Original Communications, Eighth International Congress of Apphed 

Chemistry, Vol. 13, pages 111-112 (191 2). 
Humphreys. The Corn Products Industry. Original Communications, 

Eighth International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 13, pages 

189-193 (1912). 
RoLFE. Notes on Commercial Dextrins, Ihid., Vol. 13, pages 237-245 (191 2). 
RoLFE. Sugar Manufacture in Porto Rico. Ihid., Vol. 8, pages 59-74 

(1912). 
Warren and Grove. Malic Acid in Maple Sugar "Sand." Ihid., Vol. 

6, pages 265-271 (1912). 
Browne. Manufacture of Raw Sugar in the Philippine and Hawaiian 

Islands. School of Mines Quarterly, January, 1913. 



SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND CONFECTIONERY 447 

Browne. By-Products of Sugar Manufacture and their Utilization. 

School of Mines Quarterly, July, 19 13. 
Davoll. Technical Accounting and Chemical Control in Sugar Manufac- 
ture. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 5, pages 

231-234 (1913). 
Browne. The Development of the Sugar Industry. School of Mines 

Quarterly, April, 1914. 
Snell and Scott. The Range of Variation of Analytical Values in Genuine 

Maple Sirup. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 6, 

pages 216-222 (1914). 
Snell and LocKHEAD. Composition of Maple Sugar " Sand." Journal of 

Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 6, pages 301-302 (1914). 



CHAPTER XII 

FOOD ADJUNCTS AND UNCLASSIFIED FOOD 
MATERIALS 

Many articles commonly classed as foods are consumed rather 
for their condimental properties than for nutritive value. In 
commerce and in food legislation there is usually no attempt 
to define the boundary between foods and condiments. Thus 
it will be remembered that the Food and Drugs Act so defines 
the word food as to cover all articles used as food, drink, con- 
fection, or condiment. Some of the condiments offer consider- 
able opportunity for adulteration, and in the enforcement of the 
pure food laws this group of materials usually receives a large 
share of attention. Since condiments and other food adjuncts are 
with few exceptions not of great importance either economically 
or as factors in the food supply, no attempt will be made to 
discuss them here in the manner in which the different types of 
food have been discussed; only brief descriptive statements 
will be given and in many cases these will be limited to the 
official definition or standard, since interest centers in the 
question of adulteration. 

Salt 

Salt is prepared in many localities throughout the world, 
sometimes by mining rock salt, sometimes by pumping brine 
out of salt wells, sometimes by impounding the water of salt 
lakes or of the ocean and allowing it to evaporate in the sun, 
then refining the product by recrystallization. 

In the United States, salt is produced chiefly by Michigan, 

448 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 449 

New York, Kansas, and Ohio, which together furnish about 
nine tenths of the total output.^ 

According to Bailey most of the salts on the market contain 
from 97 to 99 per cent of sodium chloride. 

In order to avoid the introduction of impurities which would 
alter tlie flavor, careful butter-makers pay much attention to 
the purity of the salt which they use, and thus the term "dairy 
salt" has come to signify as high a degree of purity as is usually 
attempted commercially. An analysis of high grade dairy 
salt has been given in the account of butter manufacture 
(page 371). 

According to the standards of the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists: Table salt, dairy salt, is fine-grained 
crystalline salt containing, on a water-free basis, not more than 
1.4 per cent of calcium sulphate, nor more than 0.5 per cent of 
calcium and magnesium chloride, nor more than o.i per cent 
of matters insoluble in water. 

In order to prevent salt, which is to be exposed to atmospheric 
conditions on the table, from becoming caked through ab- 
sorption of moisture, it is sometimes mixed with a small amount 
of starch or of calcium phosphate. In order to avoid conflict 
with the standard set by the Official Chemists, salt thus pre- 
pared should be labeled to show its nature and composition. 

Spices 

The spices owe their condimental properties most often, 
probably, to volatile oils , but also in several cases to other sub- 
stances, as will be seen from the descriptions which follow. 
Adulteration of whole spice usually takes the form of abstracting 
a part of the valuable component , while ground spices are often 
adulterated bv addition of ground hulls (or other fibrous material) 
or of starchy materials such as flour, and sometimes of mineral 

1 Bailey, International Congress of Applied Chemistry, 1903. 
2 G 



450 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



matter . Where standards have been adopted it will be seen that 
they usually set limits to one or more of these components. 

Allspice, or pimento, is obtained from an evergreen tree, 
belonging to the same family with the clove, which is found in 
the West Indies and is cultivated chiefly in Jamaica. 

The commercial spice is obtained by drying the berries, 
which, in order to avoid loss of aroma, are gathered when they 
have grown to full size but before they are fully ripe. 

The average percentages of some constituents in sample^ 
of pure whole allspice analyzed by Winton, Mitchell, and Ogden 
at the Connecticut Experiment Station were as follows : 



Moisture 

Total ash 

Ash soluble in water . 

Ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid 

Volatile oil 

Nonvolatile oils and fats 

Alcohol extract 

Starch (by diastase method) 

Crude fiber 

Protein (Nitrogen X 6.25) 
Quercitannic acid . 



Per Cent 

9.78 

4-47 

2.47 

0.03 

4-oS 

S.84 
11.79 

3-04 
22.39 

5-75 
9.71 



The volatile oil of allspice is similar to that of cloves and 
according to Leach is composed of eugenol (C10H12O2) and a 
hydrocarbon belonging to the sesquiterpenes whose exact 
chemical constitution has not yet been determined. 

According to the definition and standard of the Association 
of Official Agricultural Chemists: Allspice, pimento, is the 
dried fruit of the Pimenta pimenta (L.) Karst., and contains 
not less than 8 per cent of quercitannic acid, not more than 6 
per cent of total ash, not more than 0.5 per cent of ash insoluble 
in hydrochloric acid, and not more than 25 per cent of crude 
fiber. 

Anise is the fruit of the Pimpinella anisum L. 

Bay leaf is the dried leaf of Laurus nobilis L. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 45 1 

Capers are the flower buds of a shrub, Capparis spinosa L., 
and are commonly pickled in vinegar. 

Caraway is the fruit (so-called seed) of Carum carui L., an 
umbelliferous plant growing chiefly in the northern and central 
parts of Europe and Asia. The dry caraways yield 3 to 6 per 
cent of a volatile oil which is said to contain cymene, cymene 
aldehyde, carvone, and limonene. 

Cassia is the dried bark of Cinnamonum cassia and some other 
species of the same genus. Its condimental properties are due 
to the volatile oil, which may be obtained as such in commerce 
under the name of oil of cassia, and of which the chief component 
is cinnamic aldehyde. Cassia buds are the dried immature 
buds of species of Cinnamonum. 

Cayenne, or cayenne pepper, is the dried ripe fruit of Capsicum 
frutescens, Capsicum baccatum, or some other small fruited 
species of capsicum, and owes its pungency largely to the pres- 
ence of a characteristic alkaloid capsicine. 

Cinnamon in the stricter use of the term (true cinnamon) 
is the dried inner bark of Cinnamonum zeylanicum (Beyne). 
Commonly, however, the term cinnamon is applied to the dried 
bark of any species of Cinnamonum from which the outer layers 
may or may not have been removed. Cinnamon, like cassia, 
owes its characteristic properties to a volatile oil of which cin- 
namic aldehyde is the chief component. 

Ground cinnamon or ground cassia is a powder consisting of 
cinnamon, cassia, cassia buds, or a mixture of these. 

Cloves are the dried flower buds of the clove plant {Caryo- 
phyllus aromaticus, or Eugenia caryophyllata) which is an ever- 
green tree growing 20 to 40 feet high and cultivated largely 
in Brazil, Ceylon, India, Zanzibar, Mauritius, and the West 
Indies. 

The average percentages of the more prominent constituents 
as found by Winton, Ogden, and Mitchell in analysis of eight 
samples of whole cloves of known purity were as follows : 



452 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Moisture . , 

Total ash 

Ash soluble in water 

Ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid 

Volatile oil 

Nonvolatile oils and fats 

Alcohol extract 

Starch (by diastase method) 

Crude fiber 

Protein (Nitrogen X 6.25) . . 
Quercitannic acid 



Per Cent 

7.81 

5:92 

3-58 

0.06 
19.18 

6.49 
14.87 

2.74 

8.10 

6.18 
18.19 



The condimental property of cloves is chiefly due to the volatile 
oil, which consists mainly of eugenol with smaller quantities 
of a sesquiterpene known as caryophylene. Probably however 
the fixed oils and resins and the tannin may also contribute to 
the characteristic pungency of the clove. 

According to the standard of the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists cloves must contain not more than 5 per 
cent of clove stems, not less than 10 per cent of volatile oil, not 
less than 12 per cent of quercitannic acid, not more than 
8 per cent of total ash, not more than 0.5 per cent of ash insol- 
uble in hydrochloric acid, and not more than 10 per cent of 
crude fiber. 

Coriander is the dried fruit of Coriandrum sativum L. 

Cumin seed is the fruit of Cuminum cyminum L. 

Dill seed is the fruit of Anethum graveolens L. 

Fennel is the fruit of Fosniculum fceniculum. 

Ginger is the rhizome or root-stock of Zinziber officinale or 
Zinziber zinziber, an annual plant growing 3 to 4 feet high, 
a native of India and China, now cultivated also in tropical 
America, Africa, and Australia. 

The root is either washed or peeled (decorticated) then 
dried and sometimes bleached or sprinkled with carbonate of 
lime. Preserved ginger is prepared by boiling the root and then 
treatiiig it with sugar or honey. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 



453 



Ginger is distinguished by high starch content and by its 
volatile oil and its resinous matter. The latter is most abundant 
in the outer layers, and so is largely lost when the roots are peeled 
or decorticated. 

Winton, Ogden, and Mitchell analyzed i8 samples of whole 
ginger representing both white and black varieties with the 
following results : 



Moisture 

Total ash 

Ash soluble in water . . 
Ash insoluble in HCl . . 

Lime (CaO) 

Volatile oil 

Nonvolatile oils and fats , 
Alcohol extract .... 
Starch (by diastase method) 

Crude fiber 

" Protein " (Nitrogen X 6.25) 
Cold water extract . . . 



Maximum 


Minimum 


11.72 


8.71 


9-35 


3.61 


4.09 


1-73 


2.29 


0.02 


3-53 


0.20 


3-09 


0.96 


5-42 


2.82 


6.58 


3-63 


60.31 


49-05 


5-50 


2-37 


9-75 


4.81 


17-55 


10.92 



Average 



10.44 

5-27 
2.71 
0.44 
0.80 

1-97 
4.10 

5-i8 

54-53 

3-91 

7-74 

13.42 



According to the standards of the Official Agricultural 
Chemists, ginger must contain not less than 42 per cent of starch 
and not more than 8 per cent of crude fiber, 6 per cent of total 
ash, I per cent of lime, 3 per cent of ash insoluble in hydro- 
chloric acid; while limed ("bleached") ginger must contain 
not over 4 per cent of lime or 10 per cent of total ash and in 
other respects should conform to the standard for ginger. 

Horseradish is the root of Roripa armoracia either by itself 
or ground and mixed with vinegar. 

Mace is prepared by drying the arillus which surrounds the 
nutmeg kernel. Mace contains notable quantities of fixed oils 
and of resinous matter. Its volatile oil resembles that of nut- 
meg. It contains a considerable amount of carbohydrate, 



454 FOOD PRODUCTS 

which behaves like starch in analysis but gives only a red reaction 
with iodine and is called an amylodextrin. 

Four samples of pure Banda or Penang mace examined by 
Winton, Ogden, and Mitchell gave the following average results : 

Moisture 11-05 

Total ash 2.01 

Ash soluble in water 1.13 

Ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid .... 0.07 

Volatile oil 7-58 

Nonvolatile ether extract 22.48 

Alcohol extract 23.11 

Amylodextrin (as starch by diastase method) . 27.87 

Crude fiber 3.20 

"Protein" (Nitrogen X 6.25) 6.47 

According to the standard of the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists mace should contain between 20 and 30 
per cent of nonvolatile ether extract and not more than 3 per 
cent of total ash, 0.5 per cent of ash insoluble in hydrochloric 
acid, or 10 per cent of crude fiber. 

Marjoram is the leaf, flower, and branch of Majorana 
majorana. 

Mustard seed is the seed of Sinapis alba (white mustard), 
Brassica nigra (black mustard) , Brassica juncea (black or brown 
mustard). These are annual plants belonging to the family 
Crucijerce. 

The seeds contain a considerable proportion of fatty oil of 
the same general character as rapeseed oil. In preparing the 
ground spice the seeds are crushed and the hulls are usually 
separated more or less completely. A part of the fatty oil is 
then pressed out and the residual mustard cake is broken up 
and reduced to a fine powder which is the mustard flour of 
commerce. 

Winton and Mitchell made partial analyses of 18 samples 
of commercial mustards, believed to be pure, with the following 
results ; 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 



455 





Maximum 


Minimum 


Average 


Total ash 


Per cent 

7-35 
1.90 

28.10 
2.08 
4-87 

43-56 


Per cent 
4.81 
0.00 

17.14 
0.28 
1-58 

35-63 


Per cent 

5-99 
0.56 

20.61 
1.07 
2.58 

39-57 


Volatile oil. 

Nonvolatile ether extract 

Starch (by diastase method) .... 
Crude fiber 


"Protein" (Nitrogen X 6.25) .... 



While mustard seeds contain very little volatile oil as such, 
there are present substances which, under the influence of 
enzymes also present, readily undergo hydrolysis with formation 
of volatile oil. 

Black mustard seed contains sinigrin (potassium myronate, 
KC10H16NS2O9), a glucoside which spUts yielding glucose, potas- 
sium acid sulphate, and allyl isothiocyanate (C3H5CNS). The 
last named is called " mustard oil " and is a volatile oily liquid 
of very strong odor and capable of forming blisters when dropped 
on the skin. 

White mustard contains a different glucoside, sinalbin^ 
C30H42N2S2O15. This substance undergoes hydrolysis in a 
manner analogous to sinigrin, and when thus hydrolyzed 
yields glucose, sinapin acid sulphate (C16H24NO5HSO4), and 
sinalbin mustard oil (C7H7ONCS). The latter resembles the 
volatile oil from black mustard (allyl isothiocyanate) in 
pungency. 

According to the standards of the Association of Official 
Agricultural Chemists : Ground mustard is a powder made from 
mustard seed, with or without the removal of the hulls and a 
portion of the fixed oil, and contains not more than 2.5 per cent 
of starch and not more than 8 per cent of total ash ; prepared 
mustard, German mustard, French mustard, mustard paste, is a 
mixture of ground mustard seed or mustard flour with salt, spices 
and vinegar, and contains in the material other than water, 



456 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



fat, and salt, at least 35 per cent of protein and not over 12 per 
cent of crude fiber. 

Nutmeg is the dried seed of the Myristica fragrans, a tree 
native to the Malay archipelago, which somewhat resembles the 
orange tree in appearance. 

The nutmegs are prepared for commerce by drying, usually 
after washing in limewater, or are powdered with air-slaked 
lime after drying. 

Winton, Ogden, and Mitchel analyzed 4 samples of nutmeg 
of known purity with the following maximum and minimum 
results : 





Maximum 


Minimum 




Per cent 


Per cent 


Moisture 


10.83 
3.26 
1.46 
O.OI 

6.94 
36.94 
17-38 

24.20 
3-72 
7.00 


5-79 

2.13 

0.82 

0.00 

2.56 

28.73 

10.42 

14.62 

2.38 

6.56 


Total ash 


Ash soluble in water 

Ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid . 

Volatile oil 

Nonvolatile ether extract 

Alcohol extract 

Starch (by diastase method) .... 
Crude fiber 


"Protein" (Nitrogen X 6.25) .... 



As standardized by the Association of Official Agricultural 
Chemists, nutmeg should contain not less than 25 per cent of 
nonvolatile ether extract, not more than 5 per cent of total 
ash nor more than 0.5 per cent of ash insoluble in hydrochloric 
acid, and not more than 10 per cent of crude fiber. 

Paprika is the dried ripe fruit of Capsicum annuum, or some 
other large fruited species of Capsicum, excluding seeds and 
stems. 

Pepper is the berry of a climbing plant (Piper nigrum) 
which is cultivated in tropical countries. Black pepper is ob- 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 



457 



tained by picking the berries while immature ; white pepper, by 
allowing the berries to ripen and become more starchy. The 
condimental properties are attributed chiefly to the volatile 
oil, a hydrocarbon of the formula CioHie, and the nitrogenous 
bases piperidine and piperine. Piperine is extracted by ether 
and may be estimated approximately by multiplying the nitrogen 
of the nonvolatile ether extract by the factor 20.46. 

Analyses by Winton, Ogden, and Mitchel, and by Winton and 
Bailey, covering 20 samples of black and 10 samples of white 
pepper, and representing the leading varieties imported into the 
United States, gave the following average results : 





Black 
Pepper 


White 
Pepper 


Moisture . 


Per cent 

11.86 

S.IO 

2.60 

0.70 

1.28 

8.41 

9-44 

33-28 

13.62 

2.25 

0-33- 

11-93 


Per cent 

13-47 
1.77 
0.47 
O.IO 

0.73 
6.91 
7.66 
56-47 
3-14 
2.04 
0.30 

10.89 


Total ash 


Ash soluble in water 

Ash insoluble in HCl 

Volatile oil . 


Nonvolatile ether extract 

Alcohol extract 


Starch (by diastase method) 

Crude fiber 

Total nitrogen 

Nitrogen in nonvolatile ether extract .... 

"Protein" (Nitrogen other than that of ether 

extract X 6.25) 



To meet the standards of the Association of Official Agri- 
cultural Chemists : Black pepper must contain not less than 6 
per cent of nonvolatile ether extract, not less than 25 per cent 
of starch, not more than 7 per cent of total ash, not more than 
2 per cent of ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid, and not more 
than 15 per cent of crude fiber, and 100 parts of the nonvolatile 
ether extract must contain not less than 3.25 parts of nitrogen; 



458 FOOD PRODUCTS 

white pepper must contain not less than 6 per cent of non- 
volatile ether extract, not less than 50 per cent of starch, 
not more than 4 per cent of total ash, not more than 0.5 
per cent of ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid, and not more 
than 5 per cent of crude fiber, and 100 parts of nonvolatile ether 
extract must contain not less than 4 parts of nitrogen. 

Saffron is the dried stigma of Crocus sativus L. 

Sage is the leaf of Salvia officinalis L. 

Savory, summer savory, is the leaf, blossom, and branch of 
Satureja hortensis L. 

Thyme is the leaf and tip of blooming branches of Thymus 
vulgaris L. 

Flavoring Extracts 

A large number of flavoring extracts are available in the 
market, the extracts of vanilla and of lemon being most 
commonly used. 

Vanilla extract is made from the vanilla bean, the fruit of 
a climbing vine. Vanilla planijolia, which belongs botanically 
to the orchids and is indigenous to tropical America. The 
vanilla beans grown in Mexico are considered the finest. When 
the pods turn brown they are gathered and allowed to under- 
go a process of fermentation which develops the characteristic 
aroma. The beans are then dried for market and the commercial 
extract is made by cutting them up and soaking them in alcohol, 
usually with addition of sugar. The odor of vanilla and vanilla 
extracts is due chiefly to vanillin^ (CsHsOs) . 

Lemon extract is made by soaking lemon peel in strong alcohol 
and owes its flavor chiefly to the volatile oil of the lemon peel, 
of which the chief component is citral (CioHieO). 

Adulteration of flavoring extracts usually takes the form 
either of substituting artificial or inferior substances or of 
making the extract unjustifiably dilute. The question of the 
proper concentration must necessarily be fixed somewhat arbi- 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 459 

trarily. The limits fixed by the Association of Official Agri- 
cultural Chemists have usually been upheld by the courts. 

The definitions and standards for flavoring extracts as adopted 
by that Association are as follows : 

1. A flavoring extract ^ is a solution in ethyl alcohol of proper 
strength of the sapid and odorous principles derived from an 
aromatic plant, or parts of the plant, with or without its coloring 
matter, and conforms in name to the plant used in its preparation. 

2. Almond extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil 
of bitter almonds, free from hydrocyanic acid, and contains not 
less than one (i) per cent by volume of oil of bitter almonds. 

2a. Oil of bitter almonds, commercial, is the volatile oil obtained 
from the seed of the bitter almond {Amygdalus communis L.), 
the apricot {Prunus armeniaca L.), or the peach {Amygdalus 
per sic a L.). 

3. Anise extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil 
of anise and contains not less than three (3) per cent by volume 
of oil of anise. 

3a. Oil of anise is the volatile oil obtained from the anise seed. 

4. Celery seed extract is the flavoring extract prepared from 
celery seed or the oil of celery seed, or both, and contains not 
less than three tenths (0.3) per cent by volume of oil of celery seed. 

4a. Oil of celery seed is the volatile oil obtained from celery 
seed. 

5. Cassia extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
cassia and contains not less than two (2) per cent by volume of 
oil of cassia. 

$a. Oil of cassia is the lead-free volatile oil obtained from the 
leaves or bark of Cinnamomum cassia Bl., and contains not less 
than seventy-five (75) per cent by weight of cinnamic aldehyde. 

6. Cinnamon extract is the flavoring extract prepared from 

1 The flavoring extracts herein described are intended solely for food purposes 
and are not to be confounded with similar preparations described in the Pharmacopoeia 
for medicinal purposes. 



46o FOOD PRODUCTS 

oil of cinnamon, and contains not less than two (2) per cent by 
volume of oil of cinnamon. 

6a. Oil of cinnamon is the lead-free volatile oil obtained from 
the bark of the Ceylon cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylanicum 
Breyne), and contains not less than sixty-five (65) per cent by 
weight of cinnamic aldehyde and not more than ten (10) per cent 
by weight of eugenol. 

7. Clove extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
cloves, and contains not less than two (2) per cent by volume 
of oil of cloves. 

7a. Oil of cloves is the lead-free, volatile oil obtained from 
cloves. 

8. Ginger extract is the flavoring extract prepared from ginger 
and contains in each one hundred (100) cubic centimeters, the 
alcohol-soluble matters from not less than twenty (20) grams of 
ginger. 

9. Lemon extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
lemon, or from lemon peel, or both, and contains not less than 
five (5) per cent by volume of oil of lemon. 

ga. Oil of lemon is the volatile oil obtained, by expression or 
alcoholic solution, from the fresh peel of the lemon {Citrus 
limonum L.), has an optical rotation (25° C.) of not less than 
-1- 60° in a 100-millimeter tube, and contains not less than four 
(4) per cent by weight of citral. 

10. Terpeneless extract of lemon is the flavoring extract pre- 
pared by shaking oil of lemon with dilute alcohol, or by dissolving 
terpeneless oil of lemon in dilute alcohol, and contains not less 
than two tenths (0.2) per cent by weight of citral derived from 
oil of lemon. 

loa. Terpeneless oil of lemon is oil of lemon from which all or 
nearly all of the terpenes have been removed. 

11. Nutmeg extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil 
of nutmeg, and contains not less than two (2) per cent by volume 
of oil of nutmeg. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 461 

iifl. Oil of nutmeg is the volatile oil obtained from nutmegs. 

12. Orange extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil 
of orange, or from orange peel, or both, and contains not less 
than five (5) per cent by volume of oil of orange. 

12a. Oil of orange is the volatile oil obtained, by expression or 
alcoholic solution, from the fresh peel of the orange (Citrus 
aurantium L.) and has an optical rotation (25° C.) of not less 
than + 95° in a 100-millimeter tube. 

13. Terpeneless extract of orange is the flavoring extract pre- 
pared by shaking oil of orange with dilute alcohol, or by dis- 
solving terpeneless oil of orange in dilute alcohol, and corresponds 
in flavoring strength to orange extract. 

13a. Terpeneless oil of orange is oil of orange from which all 
or nearly all of the terpenes have been removed. 

14. Peppermint extract is the flavoring extract prepared from 
oil of peppermint, or from peppermint, or both, and contains 
not less than three (3) per cent by volume of oil of peppermint. 

14a. Peppermint is the leaves and flowering tops of Mentha 
piperita L. 

14^. Oil of peppermint is the volatile oil obtained from pepper- 
mint and contains not less than fifty (50) per cent by weight of 
menthol. 

15. Rose extract is the flavoring extract prepared from otto 
of roses, with or without red rose petals, and contains not less 
than four tenths (0.4) per cent by volume of otto of roses. 

15a. Otto of roses is the volatile oil obtained from the petals 
of Rosa damascena Mill., R. centifolia L., or R. moschata Herrm. 

16. Savory extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil 
of savory, or from savory, or both, and contains not less than 
thirty-five hundredths (0.35) per cent by volume of oil of savory. 

1 6a. Oil of savory is the volatile oil obtained from savory. 

17. Spearmint extract is the flavoring extract prepared. from 
oil of spearmint, or from spearmint, or both, and contains not 
less than three (3) per cent by volume of oil of spearmint. 



462 FOOD PRODUCTS 

17a. Spearmint is the leaves and flowering tops of Mentha 
spicata L. 

1 7Z>. Oil of spearmint is the volatile oil obtained from spearmint. 

18. Star anise extract is the flavoring extract prepared from 
oil of star anise, and contains not less than three (3) per cent by 
volume of oil of star anise. 

1 8a. Oil oj star anise is the volatile oil distilled from the fruit 
of the star anise (Illicium verum Hook). 

19. Sweet basil extract is the flavoring extract prepared from 
oil of sweet basil, or from sweet basil, or both, and contains not 
less than one tenth (o.i) per cent by volume of oil of sweet basil. 

19a. Sweet basil, basil, is the leaves and tops of Ocymum 
basilicum L. 

19^. Oil of sweet basil is the volatile oil obtained from basil. 

20. Sweet marjoram extract, marjoram extract, is the flavoring 
extract prepared from the oil of marjoram, or from marjoram, 
or both, and contains not less than one (i) per cent by volume 
of oil of marjoram. 

20a. Oil of marjoram is the volatile oil obtained from marjoram. 

21. Thyme extract is the flavoring extract prepared from oil of 
thyme, or from thyme, or both, and contains not less than two 
tenths (0.2) per cent by volume of oil of thyme. 

2ia. Oil of thyme is the volatile oil obtained from thyme. 

22. Tonka extract is the flavoring extract prepared from tonka 
bean, with or without sugar or glycerin, and contains not less 
than one tenth (o.i) per cent by weight of coumarin extracted 
from the tonka bean, together with a corresponding proportion 
of the other soluble matters thereof. 

22a. Tonka bean is the seed of Coumarouna odorata Aublet 
{Dipteryx odorata (Aubl.) Willd.). 

23. Vanilla extract is the flavoring extract prepared from 
vanilla bean, with or without sugar or glycerin, and contains 
in one hundred (100) cubic centimeters the soluble matters from 
not less than ten (10) grams of the vanilla bean. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 



463 



23a. Vanilla bean is the dried, cured fruit of Vanilla planifoUa 
Andrews. 

24. Winter green extract is the flavoring extract prepared from 
oil of wintergreen, and contains not less than three (3) per cent 
by volume of oil of wintergreen. 

240. Oil of wintergreen is the volatile oil distilled from the 
leaves of the Gaultheria procumbens L. 

Unclassified Food Materials 

Soups containing both animal and vegetable substances, and 
a few other articles grouped as unclassified by Atwater and 
Bryant, are included in Table 53 which is taken from Atwater's 
and Bryant's tables except that the fuel values have been re- 
calculated, as explained in previous chapters. 

Table 53. Composition of Unclassified Food Materials 



Description 













>< 




^ ,« 






^ 









0-^ 


M 




!^n' 




9 "? 




II 


Ej 

s 






H 




1 


p< 


Ah^ 




1-4 Q 














H 






Pe, 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 




cent 


cent 


cent 


cent 


cen/ 


ccm/ 


2 





92.9 


4.4 


•4 


I.I 


1.2 


I 





84.3 


3-2 


1.4 


9.4 


1.7 


2 





88.7 


1.8 


.8 


6.7 


2.0 


5 





84.5 


4.6 


4.3 


5-5 


I.I 


I 


_ 


87.4 


2.5 


3-2 


S-S 


1.4 


3 





96.6 


2.2 


.1 


.2 


.9 


I 





88.6 


2.1 


2.8 


5-0 


1-5 


2 





89.2 


3-8 


.9 


4-7 


1.4 


2 





93-8 


3.6 


.1 


1.5 


I.O 


I 





96.0 


2.5 


— 


•4 


I.I 






Soups, homemade 

Beef soup 

Bean soup 

Clam chowder .... 
Meat stew 

Soups, canned 

Asparagus, cream of . . 

Bouillon 

Celery, cream of . . . 
Chicken gumbo . . . 
Chicken soup .... 
Consomme 



Cal. 

116 
286 
187 
359 



276 

47 

243 

191 

97 

53 



464 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



Table 53. Composition of Unclassified Food Materials — Continued 



Description 



Soups, canned 

Com, cream of 

Julienne 

Mock turtle 

Mulligatawny 

Oxtail : 

Edible portion 

As purchased 

Pea soup 

Pea, cream of green .... 

Tomato soup 

Turtle, green 

Vegetable 

Miscellaneous 

Mincemeat, commercial . . 

Mincemeat, homemade . . . 

Salad, ham, as purchased . . 

Sandwich, egg, as purchased 

Sandwich, chicken, as pur- 
chased ........ 

Cereal coffee infusion (i part 
boiled in 20 parts water) ^ 

Yeast, compressed, as purchased 



O M 

w 



Per 

cent 



1.8 



Per 
cent 



86.8 

95-9 
89.8 

89-3 



87.8 
86.9 
87.7 
90.0 
86.6 
95-7 



27.7 

54-4 
69.4 
41.4 

48.5 

98.2 
65.1 



?5 "S 

go 



Per 
cent 



2.5 
2.7 

5-2 
3-7 

4.0 
3.8 
3.6 
2.6 
1.8 
6.1 
2.9 



6.7 
4.8 

15.4 
9.6 

12.3 

0.2 
II. 7 



Per 

cent 



1.9 

•9 
.1 

1.3 

•5 

•7 

2.7 

I.I 

1.9 



1.4 

6.7 

7.6 

12.7 

5-4 

1.4 
21.0 



tj < 



Per 

cent 



7.8 

•5 
2.8 

5-7 



4-3 
4.2 
7.6 
5.7 
5.6 
3-9 
•5 



60.2 

32.1 

5.6 

34.S 

32.1 



Per 

cent 



I.O 

.9 

1-3 

1.2 

1.6 

1.9 

1.2 

1-3 

1.5 

1-5 
•9 



4-q 
2.0 
2.0 
1.8 

1-7 

0.2 
1.8 






Col. 



265 

57 
182 

175 



204 
166 
232 
261 
179 

259 
62 



1271 

943 
691 

1319 
1026 



29 
610 



^ The average of five analyses of cereal coffee grain is: Water 6.2, protein 13.3, 
fat 3.4, carbohydrates 72.6, and ash 4.5 per cent. Only a portion of the nutrients, 
however, enter into the infusion. The average in the table represents the available 
nutrients in the cereal coffee infusion. Infusions of genuine coffee and of tea contain 
practically no nutrients. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 46 q 

Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa ^■ 

These three materials so largely used in making beverages 
are alike in having a certain stimulating property due to alkaloid 
and so are often discussed together. 

Tea consists of the prepared leaves and leaf buds of the tea 
bush belonging to different species of Thea, chiefly TheaChinensis. 
The choicest teas are made from young leaves only, the Chinese 
teas being classified according to the position of the leaf on the 
young shoot. Thus the very highest quaUty of tea (not to be 
found in ordinary trade) is the pekoe tip or flowery pekoe, made, 
of the leaf buds at the very end of the twig ; the leaf next this 
bud, that is, the youngest leaf which has opened, makes the 
orange pekoe; the next older leaf, the pekoe; the third leaf the 
souchong first, and so on through several grades. The difference 
between green and black teas is due to the mode of preparation. 
Green tea is made by steaming and drving the leaves while fresh, 
while black tea i s prepared by allow ing the leaves to underg o 
an oxidative fermentation which darkens their colo r. 

More than half the tea consumed in the United States comes 
from China, most of the remainder from Japan, smaller quanti-. 
ties from India, Ceylon, and the East Indies, and about one part 
in ten thousand of what we use is grown in South Carolina. 

A special law governs the importation of tea into the United 
States, and each shipment must be tested and found to comply 
with the standard of the grade claimed for it before it is allowed 
to pass through the custom house. 

So little of the tea enters the infusion which is consumed that 
it seems unnecessary for the purposes of this book to quote 
analyses of the tea leaf. 

The stimulating property of the infusion is attributed to 
the ^1 keloid first called theine and later found to be identical 
with cafeine, the characteristic alkaloid of coffee. This alkaloid 
is chemically a J:ri-methyl-xanthine, CsHipNA, belonging to 



466 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the same group of substances with xanthine and hypoxanthine 
of meat extract. 

The flavor of tea is also influenced by the tannin, and probably 
by the small amount of volatile oil which it contains. 

Cofee is the seed of Cofea arabica or Cofea liberica. It was 
originally grown in Africa and Arabia, and afterward introduced 
into the East and West Indies and tropical America. It is 
estimated that at present Brazil furnishes over half the world's 
supply of coffee and nearly three fourths of that consumed in 
the United States. 

The constituents of chief importance in coffee are the alkaloid 
caffeine which has just been described as occurring in tea, the 
caffetannic acid (CisHisOg), and the volatile oil known as caffeol 
(C8H10O2) to which the characteristic flavor and aroma of coffee 
are chiefly attributed. 

Cocoa in addition to the stimulating property due to the 
alkaloid theobromine (C7H8N4O2), and the flavor which makes 
it popular both as a beverage and in confectionery, has a con- 
siderable food value. A brief description of the chief cocoa 
products was given in the last chapter (page 436). 

Other Beverages 

Fruit juices, sometimes classed as beverages, are about equally 
entitled to recognition as foods with the fruits from which they 
are obtained. The fruits used commercially for this purpose 
are in most cases so juicy that what has been said of fruits as 
food in Chapter IX applies almost equally to the fresh fruit or 
its unfermented juice. Several analyses of fruit juices and 
references to the Hterature regarding them will be found in 
pages 335-365. It seems therefore unnecessary to discuss them 
separately here. 

Wines haye received much attention both from the standpoint 
of their place in the diet and in connection with pure food 
legislation. A discussion of the former topic would lead much 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 467 

beyond the scope of this work ; regarding the latter it will be 
sufficient to give the definitions and standards of the Association 
of Official Agricultural Chemists, which are as follows : 

1 . Wine is the product made by the normal alcoholic fermentation of the 
juice of sound, ripe grapes, and the usual cellar treatment,^ and contains not 
less than seven (7) nor more than sixteen (16) per cent of alcohol, by volume, 
and, in one hundred (100) cubic centimeters (20° C), not more than one 
tenth (o.i) gram of sodium chlorid nor more than two tenths (0.2) gram of 
potassium sulphate; and for red wine not more than fourteen hundredths 
(0.14) gram, and for white wine not more than twelve hundredths (0.12) 
gram of volatile acids produced by fermentation and calculated as acetic 
acid. Red wine is wine containing the red coloring matter of the skins of 
grapes. White wine is wine made from white grapes or the expressed fresh 
juice of other grapes. 

2. Dry wine is wine in which the fermentation of the sugars is practically 
complete and which contains, in one hundred (100) cubic centimeters (20° C.) 
less than one (i) gram of sugars and for dry red wine not less than sixteen 
hundredths (0.16) gram of grape ash and not less than one and six tenths 
(1.6) grams of sugar-free grape solids, and for dry white wine not less than 
thirteen hundredths (0.13) gram of grape ash and not less than one and four 
tenths (1.4) grams of sugar-free grape solids. 

3. Fortified dry wine is dry wine to which brandy has been added but 
which conforms in all other particulars to the standard of dry wine. 

4. Sweet wine is wine in which the alcoholic fermentation has been ar- 
rested, and which contains, in one hundred (100) cubic centimeters (20° C.) 
not less than one (i) gram of sugars, and for sweet red wine not less than 
sixteen hundredths (0.16) gram of grape ash, and for sweet white wine not 
less than thirteen hundredths (0.13) gram of grape ash. 

5. Fortified sweet wine is sweet wine to which wine spirits have been 
added. By act of Congress, " sweet wine " used for making fortified sweet 
wine and " wine spirits " used for such fortification are defined as follows 
(sec. 43, Act of October i, 1890, 26 Stat., 567, as amended by section 68, Act 
of August 27, 1894, 28 Stat., 509, and further amended by Act of Congress 
approved June 7, 1906) : " That the wine spirits mentioned in section 42 of 
this act is the product resulting from the distillation of fermented grape 
juice to which water may have been added prior to, during, or after fermenta- 
tion, for the sole purpose of facilitating the fermentation and economical 
distillation thereof, and shall be held to include the products from grapes or 

1 The subject of sulphurous acid in wine was reserved for future consideration. 



468 FOOD PRODUCTS 

their residues, commonly known as grape brandy ; and the pure sweet wine, 
which may be fortified free of tax, as provided in said section, is fermented 
grape juice only, and shall contain no other substance whatever introduced 
before, at the time of, or after fermentation, except as herein expressly 
provided ; and such sweet wine shall contain not less than four per centum of 
saccharine matter, which saccharine strength may be determined by testing 
with Balling's saccharometer or must scale, such sweet wine, after the 
evaporation of the spirits contained therein, and restoring the sample tested 
to original volume by addition of water : Provided, That the addition of pure 
boiled or condensed grape must or pure crystallized cane or beet sugar or 
pure anhydrous sugar to the pure grape juice aforesaid, or the fermented 
product of such grape juice prior to the fortification provided by this Act 
for the sole purpose of perfecting sweet wine according to commercial stand- 
ard, or the addition of water in such quantities only as may be necessary in 
the mechanical operation of grape conveyers, crushers, and pipes leading to 
fermenting tanks, shall not be excluded by the definition of pure sweet wine 
aforesaid : Provided, however, That the cane or. beet sugar, or pure anhydrous 
sugar, or water, so used shall not in either case be in excess of ten (lo) per 
centum of the weight of the wine to be fortified under this Act: And pro- 
vided further , That the addition of water herein authorized shall be under such 
regulations and limitations as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with 
the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may from time to time pre- 
scribe ; but in no case shall such wines to which water has been added be 
eligible for fortification under the provisions of this Act where the same, after 
fermentation and before fortification, have an alcoholic strength of less than 
five per centum of their volume." 

6. Sparkling wine is wine in which the after part of the fermentation is 
completed in the bottle, the sediment being disgorged and its place supplied 
by wine or sugar liquor, and which contains, in one hundred (loo) cubic 
centimeters (20° C), not less than twelve hundredths (0.12) gram of grape 
ash. 

7. Modified wine, ameliorated wine, corrected wine, is the product made by 
the alcoholic fermentation, with the usual cellar treatment, of a mixture of the 
juice of sound, ripe grapes with sugar (sucrose), or a sirup containing not less 
than sixty-five (65) per cent of sugar (sucrose), and in quantity not more than 
enough to raise the alcoholic strength after fermentation, to eleven (11) per 
cent by volume. 

8. Raisin wine is the product made by the alcoholic fermentation of an 
infusion of dried or evaporated grapes, or of a mixture of such infusion or of 
raisins with grape juice. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 469 

Brandy is spirit obtained by the distillation of wine. It 
usually contains from 40 to 50 per cent of alcohol. 

Gin is a distilled spirit flavored with volatile oil of juniper and 
sometimes other aromatic substances. It usually contains 
30 to 45 per cent of alcohol. 

Rum is made by distillation of the product obtained by fer- 
mentation of cane sugar molasses as described in connection 
with the sugar industry (page 428). It contains about 50 per 
cent of alcohol. 

Cordials are made by steeping fruits or aromatic herbs in 
brandy or neutral spirit and distilling the product. Absinthe 
is a cordial made by distilling an infusion of wormwood and 
therefore contains oil of wormwood on account of which it has 
been forbidden importation into the United States as adulterated 
under the Food and Drugs Act inasmuch as it contains an 
*' added poisonous or deleterious substance." 

Malt liquor has been defined as a beverage made by the 
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley malt and hops, 
with or without unmalted grains. Whether the term beer should 
be used in a similar broad sense or be more closely defined has 
been much discussed but not officially determined. Beer ordi- 
narily contains 3.5 to 4 per cent of alcohol. 

Low alcohol beers are being manufactured to an increasing 
extent to meet the demand for a temperance drink having a 
beer flavor. In some parts of the United States the sale of 
ordinary alcoholic beverages is prohibited or severely restricted 
while those of alcohol content below a specified limit (often 
2 per cent) are not subject to the prohibition or restriction. In 
some countries of Europe ordinary beer is taxed while beer of 
alcohol content less than 2.25 per cent is tax-free. 

Whisky is distilled spirit made from grain, colored and 
flavored by storage in charred barrels or by addition of caramel 
and suitable flavor. It usually contains from 40 to 50 per cent 
of alcohol. 



470 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Vinegar 

The term vinegar, originally implying a product made from 
wine, has no w come to be used much more broadly. The kinds 
of vinegar recognized officially in th€ United States are shown 
by the following definitions and explanation taken from Food 
Inspection Decision 140 issued February 27, 191 2 : 

Vinegar, cider vinegar, apple vinegar, is the product made from 
the alcohoHc and subsequent acetous fermentations of the ex- 
pressed juice of apples. 

Wine vinegar, grape vinegar, is the product made by the alcoholic 
and subsequent acetous fermentations of the juice of grapes. 

Malt vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subse- 
quent acetous fermentations, without distillation, of an infusion 
of barley malt or cereals whose starch has been converted by 
malt. 

Sugar vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and subse- 
quent acetous fermentations of solutions of sugar, sirup, molasses, 
or refiner's sirup. 

Glucose vinegar is the product made by the alcoholic and sub- 
sequent acetous fermentations of solutions of starch sugar or 
glucose. 

Spirit vinegar, distilled vinegar, grain vinegar, is the product 
made by the acetous fermentation of dilute distilled alcohol. 

Several questions regarding these definitions have been raised 
and after investigation the board has reached the following 
conclusions : 

Meaning of the term " vinegar.'^ While the term " vinegar " 
in its etymological significance suggests only sour wine, it has 
come to have a broader significance in English-speaking countries. 
In the United States it has lost entirely its original meaning and 
when used without a qualifying word designates only the product 
secured by the alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentation 
of apple jujc e. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 471 

" Second pressings ^ It is held that the number of pressings 
used in preparing the juice is immaterial so long as the pomace is 
fresh and not decomposed. The practice of allowing the pomace 
from the presses to stand in piles or in vats for a number of days, 
during which time it becomes heated and decomposed, and then 
pressing, securing what is ordinarily called " second pressing," 
in the opinion of the board produces a product which consists 
in whole or in part of a filthy and decomposed material and is 
therefore adulterated. 

Vinegar from dried-apple products. The product made from 
dried-apple skins, cores, and chops, by the process of soaking, 
with subsequent alcoholic and acetous fermentations of the 
solution thus obtained, is not entitled to be called vinegar with- 
out further designation, but must be plainly marked to show 
the material from which it is produced. The dried stock from 
which this product is prepared must be clean and made from 
sound material. 

Addition of water. When natural vinegars made from cider, 
wine, or the juice of other fruits are diluted with water, the label 
must plainly indicate this fact ; as, for example, '' diluted to 

per cent acid strength." When water is added to pomace 

in the process of manufacture, the fact that the product is diluted 
must be plainly shown on the label in a similar manner. Dilu- 
tion of vinegar naturally reduces, not only the acid strength, but 
the amount of other ingredients in proportion to the dilution, 
so that reduced vinegars will not comply with the analytical 
constants for undiluted products; but the relations existing 
between these various ingredients will remain the same. Diluted 
vinegars must have an acid strength of at least 4 grams acetic 
acid per 100 cubic centimeters. 

Mixtures of vinegars. As different kinds of vinegar differ in 
source, flavor, and chemical composition, mixtures thereof are 
compounds within the meaning of the Food and Drugs Act, and 
if they contain no added poisonous or other added deleterious 



472 FOOD PRODUCTS 

ingredients, will not be held to be misbranded if plainly labeled 
with the word " compound," together with the names and 
proportions of the various ingredients. 

Addition of boiled cider and coloring matter. The Food and 
Drugs Act provides that a product shall be deemed to be adul- 
terated if it be mixed, colored, powdered, coated, or stained 
in a manner whereby damage or inferiority is concealed ; and, 
in the opinion of the board, the addition of coloring matters, 
boiled cider, etc., to vinegar, wine vinegar, and the other types 
of vinegar, or mixtures thereof, is for the purpose of conceaUng 
damage or inferiority or producing an imitation product. In the 
first instance, the use of such products is an adulteration and 
therefore prohibited. Products artifically colored or flavored 
with harmless ingredients in imitation of some particular kind 
of vinegar will not be held to be misbranded if plainly labeled 
''Imitation vinegar" in accordance with the provisions of 
the law. 

Mixture of distilled and sugar vinegars. The product prepared 
by submitting to acetous fermentation a mixture of dilute 
alcohol (obtained, for example, from molasses by alcoholic 
fermentation and subsequent distillation) and dilute molasses, 
which has undergone alcoholic fermentation, is not " molasses 
vinegar " but a compound of distilled vinegar and molasses 
vinegar; such mixtures, however, must contain a substantial 
amount of molasses vinegar and not a small amount for the 
purpose of coloring the distilled vinegar. The molasses used 
must be fit for food purposes and free from any added deleterious 
substances. 

Acetic acid diluted. The product made by diluting acetic 
acid is not vinegar and when intended for food purposes must 
be free from harmful impurities and sold under its own name. 

Product obtained by distilling wood. The impure product made 
by the destructive distillation of wood, known as " pyroligneous 
acid," is not vinegar nor suitable for food purposes. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 473 

Acid strength. All of the products described above should 
contain not less than four (4) grams of acetic acid per one hun- 
dred (100) cubic centimeters. 

In addition to the requirement of 4 grams of acetic acid to 
100 cc. in each case the full standards prescribe in the cases 
of several vinegars certain limits of solids, ash, alkalinity of 
ash, etc., designed to facilitate the identification of the vinegar 
as to its source and the judgment as to whether it is wholly 
genuine and true to name. 

REFERENCES 

I 

Allen. Commercial Organic Analysis. 

Bailey. Source, Chemistry, and Use of Food Products. 

Freeman and Chandler. The World's Commercial Products. 

Friedenwald and Ruhrah. Diet in Health and Disease. 

GiLDEMEiSTER and Hoffmann (translated by Kremers). The Volatile Oils. 

Hartwich. Die MenschUchen Genussmittel. 

Hutchinson. Food and Dietetics. 

KoNiG. Chemie der MenschUchen Nahrungs- und Genussmittel. 

Parry. Foods and Drugs. 

Rogers and Aubert. Industrial Chemistry. 

Thompson. Practical Dietetics. 

Whymper. Cocoa and Chocolate. 

Winton. Microscopy of Vegetable Foods. 

II 

Spices and Flavoring Extracts 

Richardson. Spices and Condiments. United States Department of 

Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 2 (1887). 
Winton et al. Analyses of Spices. Connecticut Experiment Station reports, 

1896 et seq. 
Leach. Composition and Adulteration of Ground Mustard. Journal of 

the American Chemical Society, Vol. 26, pages 1203-12 10 (1904). 
Stillwell. Analyses of Spanish Paprika. Journal of the American 

Chemical Society, Vol. 28, pages 1603-1605 (1906). 



474 FOOI^ PRODUCTS 

Sprinkelmeyer and Furstenberg. On Spices. Zeitschrift fiir Unter- 
suchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 12, pages 652-658 
(1906). 

DooLiTTLE and Ogden. Composition of Known Samples of Paprika. Jour- 
nal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 30, pages 1481-1486 (1908). 

Chace. The Manufacture of Oil of Lemon and Citrate of Lime in Sicily. 
Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. i, pages 18-27 
(1909). 

LowENSTEiN and Dunne. Spanish Paprika. Journal of Industrial and 
Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 2, pages 139-142 (1910). 

Hoffman and Evans. Use of Spices as Preservatives. Journal of Indus- 
trial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 3, pages 835-838 (191 1). 

Rippetoe and Wise. The Preservative Action of Essential Oils. Journal 
of the American Pharmaceutical Association, Vol. i, pages 1 273-1 282 
(1912). 

Sindall. Commercial Cinnamon and Cassia. Journal of Industrial and 
Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 4, pages 590-591 (191 2). 

Winton and Berry. Chemical Composition of Authentic Vanilla Ex- 
tracts. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, 
Bulletin 152, page 146 (1912). 

Cochran and Perkins. The Comparative Value of Some Essential Oils 
as Preservatives of Cane Sugar Solutions and Starch Sirups. Journal 
of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 6, pages 304-306, 306- 
307 (1914)- 

McGiLL. Mustard. Canada Inland Revenue Laboratory, Bulletin 271 
(1913)- 

MiCKO. Food Condiments and Bouillon Cubes. Zeitschrift fur Unter- 
suchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 26, pages 321-339 (1913). 

ToLMAN and Mitchell. Composition of Different Varieties of Red Peppers. 
Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 5, pages 747-751 
(1913). 

WoLFRUM and Pinnow. Lemon Extract. Zeitschrift fur Untersuchung 
der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 26, pages 409-422 (1913). 

Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa 

Spencer. Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa Preparations. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 13, Part 7 (1892). 

Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture Reports for 1897 and 1898. 

Winton et al. Connecticut Experiment Station Reports for 1902 and 
1903. 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 475 

Davies and McLellan. Amount of Cocoa Butter contained in the Cocoa 
Bean. Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, Vol. 23, page 480 
(1904). 

DucHACEK. Chemical Composition of Coffee and Coffee Substitutes. 
Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 8, 
pages 139-146 (1904)- 

LiJHRiG. Cocoa Shells. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und 
Genussmittel, Vol. 9, pages 263-267 (1905). 

Shiver. Tea Industry in South Carolina. South Carolina Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Bulletin 96 (1905). 

Neumann. Nutritive Value of Cocoa. Archiv fiir Hygiene, Vol. 60, pages 
175-190 (1907). 

BoHME. Fat Content of Cocoa Products and its Control by the Manufac- 
turer. Chemiker Zeitung, Vol. 32, pages 97-99, 110-112 (1908). 

Anderson. The Factors that Constitute Values in Teas. Journal of the 
Society of Chemical Industry, Vol. 28, pages 285-288 (1909). 

Booth, Cribb, and Richards. Composition and Analysis of Chocolate. 
The Analyst, Vol. 34, pages 134-148 (1909). 

Farnsteiner. Detection of the Processes used in making so-called Soluble 
Cocoa. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, 
Vol. 16, pages 625-647 (1909). 

Nice. Effects of Alcohol, Nicotine, and Caffeine on White Mice. Journal 
of Experimental Zoology, Vol. 14, pages 1 23-1 51 (191 1). 

SoLLMANN and Pilcher. Influence of Caffeine on the Mammalian Circula- 
tion. Journal of Experimental Pharmacology, Vol. 3, pages 19-48, 
48-51, 51-64, 64-66, 66-93 (191 1)- 

Chandler and McEwan. Tea:' Its Cultivation, Manufacture and Com- 
merce. Bulletin of the Imperial Institute, Vol. 11, pages 252-319 (191 2). 

Eder. Action of Coffee on the Activity of the Stomachs of Ruminants. 
Inaugural Dissertation, Giessen, 191 2. 

Hallingworth. Influence of Caffeine on Mental and Motor Efficiency. 
New York: The Science Press, 191 2. 

Salant. The Toxicity of Caffeine. United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 148 (191 2). . 

Taylor. Effects of Coffee Drinking upon Children. Psychological Clinic, 
Vol. 6, pages 56-58 (191 2). 

Bainbridge and Davies. The Essential Oil of Cocoa. Journal of the 
Chemical Society (London), Vol. loi, pages 2209-2221 (1912). 

Read. Detection of Artificial Color in Tea. Original Communications 
8th International Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 301- 
303 (1912). 



476 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Salant and Rieger. Elimination and Toxicity of Caffeine in Nephrecto- 
mized Rabbits. United States Department of Agriculture, Bureau of 
Chemistry, Bulletin i66 (1913)- 

Sawamura. Manufacture of Tea. Original Communications 8th Inter- 
national Congress of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 18, pages 313-322 (1912). 

Importation and Inspection of Tea under Act of March 2, 1897. United 
States Treasury Department, T. D. 3321 1 (1913). 

BuRMANN. Chemical and Physiological Investigation of the Noxious Prin- 
ciples of Roasted Coffee. Bulletin generale Therapeutique, Vol. 166, 
pages 379-400 (1914)- 

Daepmann. Malt Coffee. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- 
und Genussmittel, Vol. 27, pages 453-466 (1914). 

Salant and Rieger. Influence of Caffeine on the Elimination of Creatine 
and Creatinine. American Journal of Physiology, Vol. :^:i, pages 186- 
203 (1914). 

ScHULTE. The Methods of Tea, Cocoa, Coffee and Tobacco Fermentations. 

Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 27, 

pages 209-225 (1914). 

Other Beverages 

Allen. The Chemistry of Whiskey and Allied Products. Journal of the 

Society of Chemical Industry, Vol. 10, pages 305-314 (1891). 
Parsons. The Identification and Composition of Malt Liquors. Journal of 

the American Chemical Society, Vol. 24, pages 11 70-1 178 (1902). 
Browne. Effects of Fermentation upon the Composition of Cider and 

Vinegar. Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 25, pages 

16-33 (1903). 
Crapton and Tolman. Changes taking Place in Whiskey Stored in Wood. 

Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 30, pages 98-136 (1908). 
Mezger. Alcohol-free Beverages. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der 

Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 15, pages 14-19 (1908). 
Barnard. Temperance Beers. Indiana State Board of Health, Bulletin 

12, pages 95-96 (1909). 
Adams. The Distillation of Whiskey. Journal of Industrial and Engineer- 
ing Chemistry, Vol. 2, pages 34-42 (1910). 
Micko. Rum, Brandy, Arrak, Cognac. Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der 

Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 19, pages 305-322 (1910). 
Baker and Day. Chemical Behavior and Preservative Action of Sulphites 

in Beer. Journal of the Institute of Brewing, Vol. 17, pages 465-477 

(1911). 
BiOLETTi. The Principles of Wine-Making. California Agricultural 

Experiment Station, Bulletin 213 (191 1). 



FOOD ADJUNCTS 477 

Chapman. The Industry of Brewing. Journal of the Society of Chemical 

Industry, Vol. 30, pages 463-469 (191 1). 
LiNTNER. The Flavoring and Aromatic Constituents of Beer. Zeitschrift 

fiir das gesammte Brauwesen, Vol. 34, pages 586-589, 601-603 (191 1). 
Young and Sherwood. Effect of the Environment of Carbonated Bever- 
ages on Bacteria. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, 

Vol. 3, page 495 (1911). 
GiBBS and Agcoili. Philippine Fermented Beverages. Philippine Journal 

of Science, Vol. 7, pages 97-119 (191 2). 
BoRAGiOLA and Boller. So-called Alcohol-free Wines of Commerce. 

Zeitschrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, Vol. 26, 

pages 369-408 (1913). 
KiCKTON and Murdfield. The Production, Composition and Judging of 

Port Wine. Ibid., Vol. 25, pages 625-675 (1913). 
Grunhut. The Standardization and Certification of Wines. Ibid., Vol. 

26, pages 498-535, 546-557 (1913)- 
KuLiscH. Malt Wines. Ibid., Vol. 26, pages 705-727 (1913). 
KiCKTON and Murdfield. Wines of the Type of Port Wine. Ibid., Vol. 27, 

pages 617-676 (1914). 

Vinegar 

Browne. Effects of Fermentation upon the Composition of Cider and 

Vinegar. Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 25, pages 

16-33 (1903). 
Leach and Lythgoe. Cider Vinegar and Suggested Standards of Purity. 

Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 26, pages 375-382 (1904). 
Van Slyke. A Study of the Chemistry of Homemade Cider Vinegar. 

New York Agricultural Experiment Station (Geneva, N. Y.), Bulletin 

258 (1904). 
Woodman and Shingler. Composition of American Malt Vinegar. 

Technology Quarterly, Vol. 19, pages 404-47 (1907). 
Balcom. Reports on Vinegar. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 132, page 93, and Bulletin 137, page 57 

(1910-1911). 
Bender. Report on Vinegar. United States Department of Agriculture, 

Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 152, pages 125-127 (1913). 
Tolman and Goodnow. Composition of Cider Vinegars made by the 

Generator Process. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, 

Vol. 5, pages 928 -933 (1913)- 
WtJSTENFELD and FoEHR. Tables for the Determination of Yields in 

Vinegar Manufactories. Deutsches Essigindustrie, Vol. 16, pages 

361-362, 375-376 (1913)- 



APPENDIX A 

RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE ENFORCEMENI 
OF THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT 

INTRODUCTION 

Under date of October 17, 1906, forty rules and regulations for the enforce- 
ment of the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, were adopted by the three 
Secretaries. Since that date eight regulations, Nos. 3, 5, 9, 15, 17, 19, 28, 
and 34, have been amended, the first named by F. I. D. 79, " Collection of 
Samples," approved by Secretary Wilson of the Department of Agriculture, 
Secretary Cortelyou of the Treasury Department, and Secretary Straus of the 
Department of Commerce and Labor, No. 5 by F. I. D. 130, " Amendment 
to Regulation 5, Hearings," No. 9 by F. I. D. 99, " Change in Form of 
Guaranty Legend," No. 15 to accord with F. L D. 104 on Benzoate of Soda 
and Nos. 135, 138, and 142 on Saccharin, Nos. 17 and 19 by F. I. D. 84, 
" Label " and " Character of Name," No. 28 by F. I. D. 112, on " Labeling 
of Derivatives," and No. 34 by F. I. D. 93, " Denaturing," all over the signa- 
tures of the Secretaries of Agriculture, the Treasury, and Commerce and 
Labor, with the exception of F. I. D. 142, from which the Secretary of the 
Treasury dissented. 

Regulation 2, Original Unbroken Package, has been interpreted by F. I. D. 
86, and Regulation 9, Form of Guaranty, by F. I. D. 83, the latter an opinion 
rendered by the Attorney General on the issue of a guaranty based upon a 
guaranty. 

In accordance with Regulation 15, Wholesomeness of Colors and Preserva- 
tives, F. I. D. 76, on Dyes, Chemicals, and Preservatives in Foods, F. I. D. 
89, Relating to the Use in Foods of Benzoate of Soda and Sulphur Dioxid. 
F. I. D. 92, on the Use of Copper Salts, and F. I. D. 102, amending F. I. D. 
92, have been issued over the signatures of the three Secretaries, constituting 
decisions on these points pending the completion of investigations and the 
issuance of final regulations governing the use of such substances. F, I. D. 
104 constitutes the final decision on the use of benzoate of soda in foods, and 
allows such use; F. I. D. 135, 138, and 142, constitute the final decision on 
the use of saccharin in food and prohibit such use after April i, 191 2. 

479 



480 FOOD PRODUCTS 

With the exception of these amendments and amplifications the regula- 
tions as originally issued remain unchanged, and no additional rules have 
been adopted, the revision issued under this date incorporating the changes 
enumerated, together with the amendments to section 8 of the food and drugs 
act. D. F. Houston, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Washington, D. C, March 21, 1913. 

RULES AND REGULATIONS AS AMENDED 

GENERAL 

Regulation i. Short Title of the Act 

The act, '' For preventing the manufacture, sale, or trans- 
portation of adulterated or misbranded or poisonous or deleterious 
foods, drugs, medicines, and liquors, and for regulating traffic 
therein, and for other purposes," approved June 30, 1906, shall 
be known and referred to as " The Food and Drugs Act, June 
30, 1906." 

Regulation 2. Original Unbroken Package 

[See also F. I. D. 86 for interpretation of this regulation.] 

(Section 2.) 

The term '' original unbroken package " as used in this act 
is the original package, carton, case, can, box, barrel, bottle, 
phial, or other receptacle put up by the manufacturer, to which 
the label is attached, or which may be suitable for the attach- 
ment of "a label, making one complete package of the food or 
drug article. The original package contemplated includes both 
the wholesale and the retail package. 

Regulation 3. Collection of Samples 

[As amended by F. I. D. 79, October 8, 1907, to take effect November i, 1907.] 
(Section 4.) 
Samples of unbroken packages shall be collected only by 
authorized agents of the Department of Agriculture, or by the 
health, food, or drug officer of any State, Territory, or the District 
of Columbia, when commissioned by the Secretary of Agriculture 
for this purpose. 



APPENDIX A 481 

Samples may be purchased in the open market, and, if in 
bulk, the marks, brands, or tags upon the package, carton, 
container, wrapper, or accompanying printed or written matter 
shall be noted. The collector shall also note the names of the 
vendor and agent through whom the sale was actually made, 
together with the date of the purchase. The collectors shall 
purchase representative samples. 

A sample taken from bulk goods shall be divided into 
three parts, and each shall be labeled with the identifying 
marks. 

If a package be less than 4 pounds, or in volume less than 
2 quarts, three packages shall be purchased, when practicable, 
and the marks and tags upon each noted as above. When three 
samples are purchased, one sample shall be delivered to the 
Bureau of Chemistry or to such chemist or examiner as may be 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture; the second and 
third samples shall be held under seal by the Secretary of Agri- 
culture, who, upon request, shall deliver one of such samples 
to the party from whom purchased or to the party guaranteeing 
such merchandise. 

When it is impracticable to collect three samples, or to divide 
the sample or samples, the order of delivery outlined above shall 
obtain, and in case there is a second sample the Secretary of 
Agriculture may, at his discretion, deliver such sample to parties 
interested. 

All samples shall be sealed by the collector with a seal pro- 
vided for the purpose. 

Regulation 4. Methods of Analysis 
(Section 4.) 
Unless otherwise directed by the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
methods of analysis employed shall be those prescribed by the 
Association of Official Agricultural Chemists and the United 
States Pharmacopoeia. 
2 I 



482 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Regulation 5, Hearings 

[As amended by F. I. D. 130, January 18, 1911.] 
(Section 4.) 

(a) When the examination or analysis shows that samples are 
adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of this act 
notice of that fact shall be given in every case to the party or 
parties against whom prosecution lies under this act for the 
shipment or manufacture or sale of the particular product and 
such other interested parties as the Secretary of Agriculture 
may direct, and a date shall be fixed at which such party or 
parties may be heard before the Secretary of Agriculture or 
such other person as he may direct. The hearings shall be had 
at places designated by the Secretary of Agriculture most 
convenient for all parties concerned. These hearings shall be 
private and confined to questions of fact. The parties interested 
therein may appear in person or by attorney and may submit 
oral or written evidence to show any fault or error in the findings 
of the analyst or examiner. Interested parties may present 
proper interrogatories to analysts, to be submitted to and pro- 
pounded by the Secretary of Agriculture or the officer conducting 
the hearing. Such privilege, however, shall not include the 
right of cross-examination. The Secretary of Agriculture may 
order a reexamination of the sample or have new samples 
drawn for further examination. 

(b) If, after hearings held, it appears that a violation of the 
act has been committed, the Secretary of Agriculture sliall give 
notice to the proper United States attorney. 

(c) Any health, food, or drug officer or agent of any State, 
Territory, or the District of Columbia who shall obtain satis- 
factory evidence of any violation of the Food and Drugs Act, 
June 30, 1906, as provided by section 5 thereof, shall first submit 
the same to the Secretary of Agriculture in order that he may 
give notice and fix dates for hearings to the proper parties. 



APPENDIX A 483 

Regulation 6. Publication 

(Section 4.) 

(a) When a judgment of the court shall have been rendered 
there may be a publication of the findings of the examiner or 
analyst, together with the findings of the court. 

(b) This publication may be made in the form of circulars, 
notices, or bulletins, as the Secretary of Agriculture may direct, 
not less than thirty days after judgment. 

(c) If an appeal be taken from the judgment of the court before 
such publication, notice of the appeal shall accompany the 
publication. 

Regulation 7. Standards for Drugs 
(Section 7.) 

(a) A drug bearing a name recognized in the United States 
Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary, without any further 
statement respecting its character, shall be required to conform 
in strength, quality, and purity to the standards prescribed or 
indicated for a drug of the same name recognized in the United 
States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary, official at the time. 

(b) A drug bearing a name recognized in the United States 
Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary, and branded to show 
a different standard of strength, quality, or purity, shall not be 
regarded as adulterated if it conforms to its declared standard. 

Regulation 8. Formulas — Proprietary Foods 

(Section 8, last paragraph.) 

(a) Manufacturers of proprietary foods are only required to 
state upon the label the names and percentages of the materials 
used, in so far as the Secretary of Agriculture may find this to 
be necessary to secure freedom from adulteration and mis- 
branding. 

(b) The factories in which proprietary foods are made shall 
be open at all reasonable times to the inspection provided for 
in Regulation 16. 



484 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Regulation 9. Form of Guaranty 

[As amended December 8, 1908, by F. I. D. 99, to take effect on January i, 1909; see also 
F. I. D. 83 for opinion of the Attorney-General on the issue of a guaranty based upon a 
former guaranty.] 

(Section 9.) 

(a) No dealer in food or drug products will be liable to 
prosecution if he can establish that the goods were sold under 
a guaranty by the wholesaler, manufacturer, jobber, dealer, or 
other party residing in the United States from whom purchased. 

(b) A general guaranty may be filed with the Secretary of 
Agriculture by the manufacturer or dealer and be given a serial 
number, which number shall appear on each and every package ^ 
of goods sold under such guaranty with the words " Guaranteed 
by [insert name of guarantor] under the food and drugs act, 
June 30, 1906." 

(c) The following form of guaranty is suggested : 

I (we) the undersigned do hereby guarantee that the articles of foods or 
drugs manufactured, packed, distributed, or sold by me (us) [specifying the 
same as fully as possible] are not adulterated or misbranded within the mean- 
ing of the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906. 

(Signed in ink.) 

[Name and place of business of wholesaler, dealer, manufacturer, jobber, or other party.] 

(d) If the guaranty be not filed with the Secretary of Agri- 
culture as above, it should identify and be attached to the bill 
of sale, invoice, bill of lading, or other schedule giving the names 
and quantities of the articles sold. 

ADULTERATION 
Regulation 10. Confectionery 

(Section 7.) 
(a) Mineral substances of all kinds (except as provided in 
Regulation 15) are specifically forbidden in confectionery 
whether they be poisonous or not. 

^This provision has been revoked by Food Inspection, Decision 153. 



APPENDIX A 485 

(b) Only harmless colors or flavors shall be added to con- 
fectionery. 

(c) The term " narcotic drugs " includes all the drugs men- 
tioned in section 8, food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, relating 
to foods, their derivatives and preparations, and all other drugs 
of a narcotic nature. 

Regulation 11. Substances Mixed and Packed with Foods 

(Section 7, under " Foods.") 

No substance may be mixed or packed with a food product 
which will reduce or lower its quality or strength. Not ex- 
cluded under this provision are substances properly used in the 
preparation of food products for clarification or refining, and 
eliminated in the further process of manufacture. 

Regulation 12. Coloring, Powdering, Coating and Staining 

(Section 7, under " Foods.") 

(a) Only harmless colors may be used in food products. 

(b) The reduction of a substance to a powder to conceal in- 
feriority in character is prohibited. 

(c) The term " powdered " means the application of any 
powdered substance to the exterior portion of articles of food, 
or the reduction of a substance to a powder. 

(d) The term " coated " means the application of any sub- 
stance to the exterior portion of a food product. 

(e) The term " stain " includes any change produced by the 
addition of any substance to the exterior portion of foods which 
in any way alters their natural tint. 

Regulation 13. Natural Poisonous or Deleterious Ingredients 

(Section 7, paragraph 5, under "Foods.") 

Any food product which contains naturally a poisonous or 
deleterious ingredient does not come within the provisions of 



486 FOOD PRODUCTS 

the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, except when the presence 
of such ingredient is due to filth, putrescence, or decomposition. 

Regulation 14. External Application of Preservatives 

(Section 7, paragraph 5, under " Foods," proviso.) 

(a) Poisonous or deleterious preservatives shall only be applied 
externally, and they and the food products shall be of a char- 
acter which shall not permit the permeation of any of the pre- 
servative to the interior, or any portion of the interior, of the 
product. 

(b) When these products are ready for consumption, if any 
portion of the added preservative shall have penetrated the food 
product, then the proviso of section 7, paragraph 5, under 
" Foods" shall not obtain, and such food products shall then be 
subject to the regulations for food products in general. 

(c) The preservative applied must be of such a character that, 
until removed, the food products are inedible. 

Regulation 15. Wholesomeness of Colors and Preservatives 

lAs amended to accord with F. I. D. 104. See also F. I. D. 76, 89, 92, loi, 102, 135, and 138 
. for rulings under this head.] 

(Section 7, paragraph 5, under " Foods.") 

(a) Respecting the wholesomeness of colors, preservatives, 
and other substances which are added to foods, the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall determine from chemical or other examina- 
tion, under the authority of the agricultural appropriation act. 
Public 382, approved June 30, 1906, the names of those sub- 
stances which are permitted or inhibited in food products; 
and such findings, when approved by the Secretary of the 
Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, shall 
become a part of these regulations. 

(b) The Secretary of Agriculture shall determine from time 
to time, in accordance with the authority conferred by the 



APPENDIX A 487 

agricultural appropriation act, Public 382, approved June 30, 
1906, the principles which shall guide the use of colors, pre- 
servatives, and other substances added to foods; and when 
concurred in by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary 
of Commerce and Labor, the principles so established shall 
become a part of these regulations. 

(c) It having been determined that benzoate of soda mixed 
with food is not deleterious or poisonous and is not injurious 
to health, no objection will be raised under the food and drugs 
act to the use in food of benzoate of soda, provided that each 
container or package of such food is plainly labeled to show the 
presence and amount of benzoate of soda. Food Inspection 
Decisions 76 and 89 are amended accordingly. 

(d) It having been determined that saccharin mixed with food 
is an added poisonous and deleterious ingredient such as is 
contemplated by the act, and also that the substitution of 
saccharin for sugar in foods reduces and lowers their quality, 
the Secretary of Agriculture will regard as adulterated under 
the food and drugs act foods containing saccharin which, on or 
after April i, 191 2, are manufactured or offered for sale in the 
District of Columbia or Territories or shipped in interstate or 
foreign commerce, or offered for importation into the United 
States. (F. I. D. 135, 138, and 142, dated April 26 and June 20, 
191 1, and March i, 191 2, respectively.) 



Regulation 16. Character of the Raw Materials 

(Section 7, paragraph i, under " Drugs; " paragraph 6, under " Foods.") 

(a) The Secretary of Agriculture, when he deems it necessary, 
shall examine the raw materials used in the manufacture of food 
and drug products, and determine whether any filthy, decom- 
posed, or putrid substance is used in their preparation. 

(b) The Secretary of Agriculture shall make such inspections 
as often as he ma^y deem necessary. 



488 FOOD PRODUCTS 

MISBRANDING 
Regulation 17. Label 

[As amended by F. I. D. 84, January 31, 1908, taking effect February 10, 1908.] 
(Section 8.) 

(a). The term " label " applies to any printed, pictorial or 
other matter upon or attached to any package of a food or drug 
product, or any container thereof subject to the provisions of 
this act. 

(b) The principal label shall consist, first, of all information 
which the food and drugs act, June 30, 1906, specifically re- 
quires, to wit, the name of the place of manufacture in the case 
of food compounds or mixtures sold under a distinctive name ; 
statements which show that the articles are compounds, mix- 
tures, or blends ; the words " compound," '' mixture," or 
" blend," and words designating substances or their derivatives 
and proportions required to be named in the case of foods and 
drugs. All this information shall appear upon the principal 
label, and should have no intervening descriptive or explanatory 
reading matter. Second, if the name of the manufacturer and 
place of manufacture are given, they should also appear upon 
the principal label. Third, preferably, upon the principal 
label, in conjunction with the name of the substance, such 
phrases as " artificially colored," " colored with sulphate of 
copper," or any other such descriptive phrases necessary to 
be announced should be conspicuously displayed. Fourth, 
elsewhere upon the principal label other matter may appear 
in the discretion of the manufacturer. If the contents are 
stated in terms of weight or measure, such statement should 
appear upon the principal label and must be couched in plain 
terms, as required by Regulation 29. 

(c) If the principal label is in a foreign language, all informa- 
tion required by law and such other information as indicated 
above in (b) shall appear upon it in Enghsh. Besides the prin- 



APPENDIX A 489 

cipal label in the language of the country of production, there 
maybe also one or more other labels, if desired, in other languages, 
but none of them more prominent than the principal label, and 
these other labels must bear the information required by law, 
but not necessarily in English. The size of the type used to 
declare the information required by the act shall not be smaller 
than 8-point (brevier) capitals : Provided^ That in case th,e size 
of the package will not permit the use of 8-point type, the size 
of the type may be reduced proportionately. 

{d) Descriptive matter upon the label shall be free from any 
statement, design, or device regarding the article or the ingredi- 
ents or substances contained therein, or quality thereof, or place 
of origin, which is false or misleading in any particular. The 
term " design " or '' device " applies to pictorial matter of every 
description, and to abbreviations, characters, or signs for weights, 
measures, or names of substances. 

{e) An article containing more than one food product or active 
medicinal agent is misbranded if named after a single con- 
stituent. 

In the case of drugs the nomenclature employed by the United 
States Pharmacopoeia and the National Formulary shall obtain. 

(/) The use of any false or misleading statement, design, or 
device appearing on any part of the label shall not be justified 
by any statement given as the opinion of an expert or other 
person, nor by any descriptive matter explaining the use of the 
false or misleading statement given as the opinion of an expert 
or other person, nor by any descriptive matter explaining the 
use of the false or misleading statement, design, or device. 

Regulation 18. Name and Address of Manufacturer 

(Section 8.) 

{a) The name of the manufacturer or producer, or the place 

where manufactured, except in case of mixtures and compounds 

having a distinctive name, need not be given upon the label, 



490 FOOD PRODUCTS 

but if given, must be the true name and the true place. The 
words "packed for ," "distributed by ," or some equiv- 
alent phrase, shall be added to the label in case the name which 
appears upon the label is not that of the actual manufacturer or 
producer, or the name of the place not the actual place of 
manufacture or production. 

(b) When a person, firm, or corporation actually manufactures 
or produces an article of food or drug in two or more places, the 
actual place of manufacture or production of each particular 
package need not be stated on the label except' when in the 
opinion of the Secretary of Agriculture the mention of any such 
place, to the exclusion of the others, misleads the public. 

Regulation 19. Character of Name 

[As amended by F. I. D. 84, January 31, 1908, taking effect February 10, 1908.] 
(Section 8.) 

(a) A simple or unmixed food or drug product not bearing 
a distinctive name should be designated by its common name in 
the English language ; or if a drug, by any name recognized in 
the United States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary. No 
further description of the components or qualities is required, 
except as to content of alcohol, morphine, etc. 

(b) The use of a geographical name shall not be permitted 
in connection with a food or drug product not manufactured 
or produced in that place, when such name indicates that the 
article was manufactured or produced in that place. 

(c) The use of a geographical name in connection with a food 
or drug product will not be deemed a misbranding when by 
reason of long usage it has come to represent a generic term and 
is used to indicate a style, type, or brand ; but in all such cases 
the State or Territory where any such article is manufactured 
or produced shall be stated upon the principal label. 

(d) A foreign name which is recognized as distinctive of a 
product of a foreign country shall not be used upon an article 



APPENDIX A . 491 

of domestic origin except as an indication of the type or style 
of quality or manufacture, and then only when so qualified that 
it cannot be offered for sale under the name of a foreign article. 

Regulation 20. Distinctive Name 

(Section 8.) 

(a) A'' distinctive name " is a trade, arbitrary, or fancy name 
which clearly distinguishes a food product, mixture, or compound 
from any other food product, mixture, or compound. 

(b) A distinctive name shall not be one representing any 
single constituent of a mixture or compound. 

(c) A distinctive name shall not misrepresent any property or 
quality of a mixture or compound. 

(d) A distinctive name shall give no false indication of origin, 
character, or place of manufacture, nor lead the purchaser to 
suppose that it is any other food or drug product. 

Regulation 21. Compounds, Imitations, or Blends Without Distinctive 

Name 

(Section 8.) 

(a) The term " blend " applies to a mixture of like substances, 
not excluding harmless coloring or flavoring ingredients used for 
the purpose of coloring and flavoring only. 

(b) If any age is stated, it shall not be that of a single one of 
its constituents, but shall be the average of all constituents in 
their respective proportions. 

(c) Coloring and flavoring cannot be used for increasing the 
weight or bulk of a blend. 

(d) In order that colors or flavors may not increase the volume 
or weight of a blend, they are not to be used in quantities 
exceeding i pound to 800 pounds of the blend. 

(e) A color or flavor cannot be employed to imitate any natural 
product or any other product of recognized name and quality. 

(J) The term " imitation " applies to any mixture or compound 



492 FOOD PRODUCTS 

which is a counterfeit or fraudulent simulation of any article 
of food or drug. 

Regulation 22. Articles without a Label 

(Section 8, paragraph i, under " Drugs; " paragraph i, under " Foods.") 
It is prohibited to sell or offer for sale a food or drug product 
bearing no label upon the package or no descriptive matter 
whatever connected with it, either by design, device, or otherwise, 
if said product be an imitation of or offered for sale under the 
name of another article. 

Regulation 23, Proper Branding not a Complete Guaranty 
Packages which are correctly branded as to character of 
contents, place of manufacture, name of manufacturer, or other- 
wise, may be adulterated and hence not entitled to enter into 
interstate commerce. 

Regulation 24. Incompleteness of Branding 
A compound shall be deemed misbranded if the label be incom- 
plete as to the names of the required ingredients. A simple 
product does not require any further statement than the name 
or distinctive name thereof, except as provided in Regulations 
19 (a) and 28. 

Regulation 25. Substitution 
(Sections 7 and 8.) 

(a) When a substance of a recognized quality commonly used 
in the preparation of a food or drug product is replaced by an- 
other substance not injurious or deleterious to health, the name 
of the substituted substance shall appear upon the label. 

(b) When any substance which does not reduce, lower, or 
injuriously affect its quaUty or strength, is added to a food or 
drug product, other than that necessary to its manufacture or 
refining, the label shall bear a statement to that efifect. 



APPENDIX A 493 

Regulation 26. Waste Materials 

(Section 8.) 
When an article is made up of refuse materials, fragments, or 
trimmings, the use of the name of the substance from which 
they are derived, unless accompanied by a statement to that 
effect, shall be deemed a misbranding. Packages of such 
materials may be labeled " pieces," " stems," " trimmings," 
or with some similar appellation. 

Regulation 27. Mixtures or Compounds with Distinctive Names 
(Section 8. First proviso under " Foods," paragraph i.) 

(a) The terms " mixtures " and " compounds " are inter- 
changeable and indicate the results of putting together two or 
more food products. 

(b) These mixtures or compounds shall not be imitations of 
other articles, whether simple, mixt, or compound, or offered 
for sale under the name of other articles. They shall bear a 
distinctive name and the name of the place where the mixture 
or compound has been manufactured or produced. 

(c) If the name of the place be one which is found in different 
States, Territories, or countries, the name of the State, Territory, 
or country, as well as the name of the place, must be stated. 

Regulation 28. Substances named in Drugs or Foods 

[As amended by F. I. D. 112, January 6, 1910, taking effect April i, 1910.] 
(Section 8. Second under " Drugs ; " second under " Foods.") 

(a) The term " alcohol " is defined to mean common or 
ethyl alcohol. No other kind of alcohol is permissible in the 
manufacture of drugs except as specified in the United States 
Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary. 

(b) The words alcohol, morphine, opium, etc., and the quanti- 
ties and proportions thereof, shall be printed in letters correspond- 
ing in size with those prescribed in Regulation 17, paragraph (c). 

(c) A drug, or food product except in respect of alcohol, is 



494 FOOD PRODUCTS 

misbranded in case it fails to bear a statement on the label of 
the quantity or proportion of any alcohol, morphine, opium, 
heroin, cocaine, alpha or beta eucaine, chloroform, cannabis 
indica, chloral hydrate, or acetanilide, or any derivative or 
preparation of any such substances contained therein. 

(d) A statement of the maximum quantity or proportion of any 
such substances present will meet the requirements, provided 
the maximum stated does not vary materially from the average 
quantity of proportion. 

(e) In case the actual quantity or proportion is stated it shall 
be the average quantity or proportion with the variations noted 
in Regulation 29. 

(/) The following are the principal derivatives and prepara- 
tions made from the articles which are required to be named upon 
the label : 

Alcohol, Ethyl: (Cologne spirits, Grain alcohol, Rectified spirits, Spirits, 
and Spirits of wine.) 
Derivatives — 

Aldehyde, Ether, Ethyl acetate. Ethyl nitrite, and Paraldehyde. 
Preparations containing alcohol — 

Bitters, Brandies, Cordials, Elixirs, Essences, Fluid extracts, Spirits, 
Sirups, Tinctures, Tonics, Whiskies, and Wines. 
Morphine, Alkaloid : 
Derivatives — 

Apomorphine, Dionine, Peronine, Morphine acetate, Hydrochloride, 
Sulphate, and other salts of morphine. 
Preparations containing morphine or derivatives of morphine — 

Bougies, Catarrh Snuff, Chlorodyne, Compound powder of morphine, 
Crayons, Elixirs, Granules, Pills, Solutions, Sirups, Suppositories, 
Tablets, Triturates, and Troches. 
Opium, Gum : 

Preparations of opium — 

Extracts, Denarcotized opium. Granulated opium, and Powdered 
opium. Bougies, Brown mixture, Carminative mixtures, Crayons, 
Dover's powder. Elixirs, Liniments, Ointments, Paregoric, Pills, 
Plasters, Sirups, Suppositories, Tablets, Tinctures, Troches, Vine- 
gars, and Wines. 



APPENDIX A 



495 



Derivatives — 

Codeine, Alkaloid, Hydrochloride, Phosphate, Sulphate, and other 
salts of codeine. 
Preparations containing codeine or its salts — 
Elixirs, Pills, Sirups, and Tablets. 
Cocaine, Alkaloid : 
Derivatives — • 

Cocaine hydrochloride, Oleate, and other salts. 
Preparations containing cocaine or salts of cocaine — 

Coca leaves, Catarrh powders. Elixirs, Extracts, Infusion of coca. 
Ointments, Paste pencils, Pills, Solutions, Sirups, Tablets, Tinctures, 
Troches, and Wines. 
Heroin : 

Preparations containing heroin — 
Sirups, Elixirs, Pills, and Tablets. 
Alpha and Beta Eucaine : 
Preparations — 

Mixtures, Ointments, Powders, and Solutions. 
Chloroform : 

Preparations containing chloroform — 

Chloranodyne, Elixirs, Emulsions, Liniments, Mixtures, Spirits, and 
Sirups. 
Cannabis Indica : 

Preparations of cannabis indica — 

Corn remedies, Extracts, Mixtures, Pills, Powders, Tablets, and 
Tinctures. 
Chloral Hydrate {Chloral, U. S. Pharmacopoeia, 1890) : 
Derivatives — 

Chloral acetophenonoxim, Chloral alcoholate, Chloralamide, Chloral- 
imide, Chloral orthoform, Chloralose, Dormiol, Hypnal, and Uraline. 
Preparations containing chloral hydrate or its derivatives — • 

Chloral camphorate, EHxirs, Liniments, Mixtures, Ointments, Sup- 
positories, Sirups, and Tablets. 
Acetanilide {Antifehrine, Phenylacetamide) : 
Derivatives — 

Acetphenetidine, Citrophen, Diacetanilide, Lactophenin,Methoxyace- 
tanilide, MethylacetaniHde, Para-lodoacetanilide, and Phenacetine. 
Preparations containing acetanilide or derivatives — 

Analgesics, Antineuralgics, Antirheumatics, Cachets, Capsules,' Cold 
remedies, Elixirs, Granular efifervescing salts. Headache powders, 
Mixtures, Pain remedies, Pills, and Tablets. 



496 FOOD PRODUCTS 

(g) In declaring the quantity or proportion of any of the speci- 
fied substances the names by which they are designated in the 
act shall be used, and in declaring the quantity or proportion 
of derivatives of any of the specified substances, in addition 
to the trade name of the derivative, the name of the specified 
substance shall also be stated, so as to indicate clearly that the 
product is a derivative of the particular specified substance. 

Regulation 29. Statement of Weight or Measure 

(Section 8. Third under " Foods.") 

[The section of the law under which this regulation was made has been amended by the act 
of March 3, 1913, Public — No. 419, H. R. 22526. New regulations will be published as 
soon as they have been adopted.] 

(a) A statement of the weight or measure of the food contained 
in a package is not required. If any such statement is printed, 
it shall be a plain and correct statement of the average net weight 
or volume, either on or immediately above or below the principal 
label, and of the size of letters specified in Regulation 17. 

(b)' A reasonable variation from the stated weight for in- 
dividual packages is permissible, provided this variation is as 
often above as below the weight or volume stated. This varia- 
tion shall be determined by the inspector from the changes in 
the humidity of the atmosphere, from the exposure of the package 
to evaporation or to absorption of water, and the reasonable 
variations which attend the filling and weighing or measuring 
of a package. 

Regulation 30. Method of Stating Quantity or Proportion 

(Section 8.) 

In the case of alcohol the expression " quantity "or " pro- 
portion " shall mean the average percentage by volume in the 
finished product. In the case of the other ingredients required 
to be named upon the label, the expression " quantity " or 
" proportion " shall mean grains or minims per ounce or fluid 



APPENDIX A 497 

ounce, and also, if desired, the metric equivalents therefor, or 
milligrams per gram or per cubic centimeter, or grams or cubic 
centimeters per kilogram or per liter; provided that these 
articles shall not be deemed misbranded if the maximum of 
quantity or proportion be stated, as required in Regulation 
28 (d). 

EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF FOODS AND DRUGS 

Regulation 31. Preparation of Food Products for Export 

(Section 2.) 

(a) Food products intended for export may contain added 
substances not permitted in foods intended for interstate com- 
merce, when the addition of such substances does not conflict 
with the laws of the countries to which the food products are 
to be exported and when such substances are added in accordance 
with the directions of the foreign purchaser or his agent. 

(b) The exporter is not required to furnish evidence that goods 
have been prepared or packed in compliance with the laws of 
the foreign country to which said goods are intended to be shipped, 
but such shipment is made at his own risk. 

(c) Food products for export under this regulation shall be 
kept separate and labeled to indicate that they are for export. 

(d) If the products are not exported they shall not be allowed 
to enter interstate commerce. 

Regulation 32. Imported Food and Drug Products 

(Section 11.) 
(a) Meat and meat food products imported into the United 
States shall be accompanied by a certificate of official inspec- 
tion of a character to satisfy the Secretary of Agriculture that 
they are not dangerous to health, and each package of such 
articles shall bear a label which shall identify it as covered by 
the certificate, which certificate shall accompany or be attached 
to the invoice on which entry is made. 



498 FOOD PRODUCTS 

(b) The certificate shall set forth the official position of the 
inspector and the character of the inspection. 

(c) Meat and meat food products as well as all other food and 
drug products of a kind forbidden entry into or forbidden to be 
sold or restricted in sale in the country in which made or from 
which exported, will be refused admission. 

(d) Meat and meat food products which have been inspected 
and passed through the customs may, if identity is retained, be 
transported in interstate commerce. 

Regulation 33. Declaration 

(Section 11.) 

(a) All invoices of food or drug products shipped to the United 
States shall have attached to them a declaration of the shipper, 
made before a United States consular officer, as follows : 

I, the undersigned, do solemnly and truly declare that I am the 

(Manufacturer, agent, or shipper.) 

of the merchandise herein mentioned and described, and that it consists of 

food or drug products which contain no added substances injurious to health. 

These products were grown in and manufactured in by 

(Country.) (Country.) (Name 

during the year , and are exported from and consigned to 

of manufacturer. ) (City.) 

. The products bear no false labels or marks, contain no added 

(City.) some 

coloring matter or preservative , and are not of a character to cause 

(Name of added color or preservative.) 

prohibition or restriction in the country where made or from which exported. 

Dated at this day of , 19 — . 

(Signed): . 

(b) In the case of importations to be entered at New York, 
Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, San Francisco, and New Orleans, 
and other ports where food and drug inspection laboratories 
shall be established, this declaration shall be attached to the 
invoice on which entry is made. In other cases the declaration 
shall be attached to the copy of the invoice sent to the Bureau of 
Chemistry. 



1 



APPENDIX A 499 

Regulation 34. Denaturing 

[As amended by F. I. D. 93, May 12, 1908.] 
(Section 11.) 

Unless otherwise declared on the invoice, all substances or- 
dinarily used as food products will be treated as such. Ship- 
ments of substances ordinarily used as food products intended 
for technical purposes should be accompanied by a declaration 
stating that fact. Such products should be denatured before 
entry, but denaturing may be allowed under customs supervision 
with the consent of the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secre- 
tary of the Treasury may release such products without de- 
naturing, under such conditions as may preclude the possibility 
of their use as food products. 

Regulation 35. Bond, Imported Foods, and Drugs 

(Section 11.) 

Unexamined packages of food and drug products may be 
delivered to the consignee prior to the completion of the examina- 
tion to determine whether the same are adulterated or mis- 
branded upon the execution of a penal bond by the consignee 
in the sum of the invoice value of such goods with the duty added, 
for the return of the goods to customs custody. 

Regulation 36. Notification of Violation of the Law 

(Section 11.) 

If the sample on analysis or examination be found not to 
comply with the law, the importer shall be notified of the nature 
of the violation, the time and place at which final action will 
be taken upon the question of the exclusion of the shipment, 
and that he may be present, and submit evidence (Form No. 5), 
which evidence, with a sample of the article, shall be forwarded 
to the Bureau of Chemistry at Washington, accompanied by 
the appropriate report card. 



500 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Regulation 37. Appeal to the Secretary of Agriculture and Remuneration 

(Section 11.) 
All applications for relief from decisions arising under the 
execution of the law should be addressed to the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and all vouchers or accounts for remuneration for 
samples shall be filed with the chief of the inspection laboratory, 
who shall forward the same, with his recommendation, to the 
Department of Agriculture for action. 

Regulation 38. Shipment beyond the jurisdiction of the United States 

(Section 11.) 
The time allowed the importer for representations regarding 
the shipment may be extended at his request to permit him to 
secure such evidence as he desires, provided that this extension 
of time does not entail any expense to the Department of Agri- 
culture. If at the expiration of this time, in view of the data 
secured in inspecting the sample and such evidence as may 
have been submitted by the manufacturers or importers, it 
appears that the shipment cannot be legally imported into the 
United States, the Secretary of Agriculture shall request the 
Secretary of the Treasury to refuse to deliver the shipment in 
question to the consignee, and to require its reshipment beyond 
the jurisdiction of the United States. 

Regulation 39. Application of Regulations 
■ These regulations shall not apply to domestic meat and meat 
food products which are prepared, transported, or sold in inter- 
state or foreign commerce under the meat-inspection law and 
the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture made thereunder. 
(This regulation has since been revoked.) 

Regulation 40. Alteration and Amendment of Regulations 
These regulations may be altered or amended at any time, 
without previous notice, with the concurrence of the Secretary 
of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary 
of Commerce and Labor. 



APPENDIX B 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISIONS ^ 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 44 

SCOPE AND PURPOSE OF FOOD INSPECTION DECISIONS 

From the tenor of many inquiries received in this Department 
it appears that many persons suppose that the answers to in- 
quiries addressed to this Department, either in letters or in 
published decisions, have the force and effect of the rules and 
regulations for the enforcement of the food and drugs act of 
June 30, 1906. The following are illustrations of the inquiries 
received by this Department : 

Must we stamp all goods as conforming to the drug and food law, whether 
they have alcohol and narcotics therein, or not? 

On a brand of salad oil, which is a winter-strain cotton-seed oil, can it be 
sold under the brand of salad oil, or must it state that it is cotton-seed oil? 

It seems highly desirable that an erroneous opinion of this 
kind should be corrected. The opinions or decisions of this 
Department do not add anything to the rules and regulations 
nor take anything away from them. They therefore are not 
to be considered in the light of rules and regulations. On the 
other hand, the decisions and opinions referred to express the 
attitude of this Department in relation to the interpretation of 
the law and the rules and regulations, and they are published 
for the information of the officials of the Department who may be 
charged with the execution of the law and especially to acquaint 
manufacturers, jobbers, and dealers with the attitude of this 
Department in these matters. They are therefore issued more 

1 Since space does not permit the quoting of all food inspection decisions in full the 
attempt has been made to reproduce here such selections as will be most useful to 
readers of this book. 

SOI . 



502 FOOD PRODUCTS 

in an advisory than in a mandatory spirit. It is clear that if the 
manufacturers, jobbers, and dealers interpret the rules and 
regulations in the same manner as they are interpreted by this 
Department, and follow that interpretation in their business 
transactions, no prosecution will lie against them. It needs 
no argument to show that the Secretary of Agriculture must 
himself come to a decision in every case before a prosecution 
can be initiated, since it is on his report that the district attorney 
is to begin a prosecution for the enforcement of the provisions 
of the act. 

In so far as possible it is advisable that the opinions of this 
Department respecting the questions which arise may be pub- 
lished. It may often occur that the opinion of this Department 
is not that of the manufacturer, jobber, or dealer. In this case 
there is no obligation resting upon the manufacturer, jobber, or 
dealer to follow the line of procedure marked out or indicated 
by the opinion of this Department. Each one is entitled to his 
own opinion and interpretation and to assume the responsibility 
of acting in harmony therewith. 

It may be proper to add that in reaching opinions and decisions 
on these cases the Department keeps constantly in view the 
two great purposes of the food and drugs act, namely, to prevent 
misbranding and to prohibit adulteration. From the tenor of 
the correspondence received at this Department and from the 
oral hearings which have been held, it is evident that an over- 
whelming majority of the manufacturers, jobbers, and dealers 
of this country are determined to do their utmost to conform 
to the provisions of the act, to support it in every particular, 
and to accede to the opinions of this Department respecting its 
construction. It is hoped, therefore, that the publication of 
the opinions and decisions of the Department will lead to the 
avoidance of litigation which might arise due to decisions which 
may be reached by this Department indicating violations of 
the act, violations which would not have occurred had the 



APPENDIX B 



503 



opinions and decisions of the Department been brought to the 
attention of the offender. j^^^ ^^^^^^^ 

Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, December i, igo6. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 52 

FORM OF LABEL 

The following is an extract from a letter recently received : 

We do not understand the requirements of the regulations respecting the 
arrangement of labels ; that is, the order in which the various features of the 
label should be arranged. 

To meet the requests for the opinion of the Department 
regarding the proper arrangement of a label, the following 
order is suggested : 

1. Name of substance or product. 

2. In case of foods, words which indicate that the articles are 
compounds, mixtures, or blends, and the word " Imitation," 
" Compound," or " Blend," as the case may be. 

3. Statements designating the quantity or proportions of the 
ingredients enumerated in the law, or derivatives and prep- 
arations of same,^ as mentioned under Regulation 28 ; also 
statements of other extraneous substances whose presence 
should be declared, such as harmless coloring matter, or any 
necessary statement regarding grade or quality. 

(The statements specified in paragraphs i, 2, and 3, should 
appear together without any intervening descriptive or explana- 
tory matter.) 

4. Name of manufacturer (if given). 

5. Place of manufacture (if given, or when required in case 
of food mixtures or compounds bearing a distinctive name). 

It is stated in Regulation 17 that if the name of the manu- 
facturer and place of manufacture be given they should appear 

1 Attention is called to the fact that the declaration of alcohol and its derivatives 
is not required in foods. 



504 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



upon the principal label. Although the law does not require 
that the name of the manufacturer be given, or the place of 
manufacture, except in case of food mixtures and compounds 
having a distinctive name, it is held that if they are given they 
must be true, and should be placed with the required information 
on the principal label. The arrangement of the label is the 
same for both food and drug products and an example of each 

is given. 

Sample Label for Food Product 



[Name of product.] 

[Declaration required by 
paragraphs 2 and 3.] 



[Name of manufacturer, 

if given.] 

[Place of manufacture, if 

given.] 



KETCHUP. 
ARTIFICIALLY COLORED. 



[Descriptive matter, if desired, but 
preferably at bottom of label.] 



BLANK & CO., 
PORTLAND, ME. 



[Descriptive matter, if desired.] 



Sample Label for Drug Product 



[Name of product.] 

[Declarations required 
by paragraphs 2 and 3.] 



[Name of manufacturer, 

if given.] 

[Place of manufacture, if 

given.] 



COUGH SYRUP. 

ALCOHOL, 10 PER CENT. 
JMORPHINE, I GRAIN PER 

OUNCE. 
CHLOROFORM, 40 MINIMS 

PER OUNCE. 



[Descriptive matter, if desired, but 
preferably at bottom of label.] 



JOHN JONES & CO. 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 



[Descriptive matter, if desired.] 



APPENDIX B 



505 



Any descriptive or explanatory matter that may appear on the 
principal label, therefore, should be placed at the bottom of the 
label, or between No. 3 and No. 4, and should be clearly sep- 
arated from other features of the label by means of a suitable 
line or space. Statements regarding the reason for using 
alcohol, artificial coloring matter, and other extraneous sub- 
stances, come under the head of descriptive or explanatory 
matter, and should not be interspersed with the declarations 
required under Nos. 2 and 3. 

The information called for under No. 3 should be so worded 
as to give only the required information, as, for example, 
" alcohol 17 per cent " or " artificially colored." All numbers 
used in expressing quantity or proportion of substances required 
to be stated (see Regulation 28) should be expressed in the Arabic 
notation. 

Each substance required to be declared under No. 3 should 
be printed on a separate line and in type specified in Reg- 
ulation 17 (c). 

James Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 

Washington, D. C, January 18, 190J. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 58 

THE LABELING OF PRODUCTS USED AS FOODS AND DRUGS 
AS WELL AS FOR TECHNICAL AND OTHER PURPOSES 

Frequent requests for information relative to the proper 
labeling of products bearing the names of foods and drugs, but 
used also for technical and other purposes, are received. The 
following are typical : 

We will kindly ask you to advise us in regard to the new law that governs 
the line of oils. We manufacture a compound product, so-called " turpen- 
tine," which contains pure turpentine and a very fine petroleum product. It 



^o6 FOOD PRODUCTS 

is used in most branches where pure turpentine is used, with the exception of 
medicinal purposes, for which we do not sell it. 

We understand that if we were to sell any cotton-seed oil so branded as to 
indicate that it was intended to be used as a food, as, for example, under the 
brand " Blank Salad Oil," it would be necessary to observe the requirements 
of the law referred to ; but we are in doubt and would be glad to have your 
opinion as to whether a sale or shipment of this oil (for lubricating purposes) 
under the ordinary trade brand of cotton-seed oil, and without anything to 
indicate that it was of a quality suitable for use as a salad oil, would subject 
us to the provisions of the act. 

During personal interviews the question of marking chemical 
reagents has also been discussed. 

Products used in the arts and for technical purposes are not 
subject to the food and drugs act. It is, however, a well- 
recognized fact that many articles are used indiscriminately 
for food, medicinal, and technical purposes. It is also well 
known that some products employed for technical purposes are 
adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of this act. In- 
asmuch as it is impossible to follow such products into con- 
sumption in order to determine to what use they are finally put, 
it is desirable that an article sold under a name commonly 
applied to such article for food, drug, and technical purposes 
be so labeled as to avoid possible mistakes. The ordinary 
name of a pure and normal product, whether sold for food, drug, 
technical, or other purposes, is all that is necessary. Pure cot- 
ton-seed oil or turpentine may be sold without any restrictions 
whatever, whether such article is sold for food, medicinal, or 
technical purposes, but it is suggested that a cotton-seed oil 
intended for lubricating purposes, or a so-called turpentine 
consisting of a mixture of turpentine and petroleum oils, used 
by the paint trade, be plainly marked so as to indicate that they 
are not to be employed for food or medicinal purposes. Such 
phrases as the following may be used : " Not for Food Purposes," 
" Not for Medicinal Use," or for '' Technical Purposes Only," 
or " For Lubricating Purposes," etc. 



APPENDIX B 507 

In order to avoid complication it is suggested that chemical 
reagents sold as such be marked with such phrases as the follow- 
ing : " For Analytical Purposes," or " Chemical Reagent," etc. 

James Wilson, 
Secretary oj Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, March 13, igoy. 



FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 76 

DYES, CHEMICALS, AND PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

It is provided in regulation 15 of the rules and regulations for 
the enforcement of the food and drugs act, that the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall determine by chemical or other examination 
those substances which are permitted or inhibited in food 
products ; that he shall determine from time to time the prin- 
ciples which shall guide the use of colors, preservatives, and other 
substances added to foods; and that when these findings and 
determinations of the Secretary of Agriculture are approved 
by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce 
and Labor, the principles so established shall become a part of 
the rules and regulations for the enforcement of the food and 
drugs act. 

The law provides that no food or food product intended for 
interstate commerce, nor any food or food product manufactured 
or sold in the District of Columbia or in any Territory of the 
United States, or for foreign commerce, except as thereinafter 
provided, shall contain substances which lessen the wholesome- 
ness or which add any deleterious properties thereto. It has 
been determined that no drug, chemical, or harmful or deleterious 
dye or preservative may be used. Common salt, sugar, wood 
smoke, potable distilled liquors, vinegar, and condiments may 
be used. Pending further investigation, the use of saltpeter 
is allowed. 



5o8 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Pending the investigation of the conditions attending pro- 
cesses of manufacture, and the effects upon health, of the com- 
binations mentioned in this paragraph, the Department of 
Agriculture will institute no prosecution in the case of the appli- 
cation of fumes of burning sulphur (sulphur dioxid), as usually 
employed in the manufacture of those foods and food products 
which contain acetaldehyde, sugars, etc., with which sulphurous 
acid may combine, if the total amount of sulphur dioxid in the 
finished product does not exceed 350 milligrams per liter in 
wines, or 350 milligrams per kilogram in other food products, 
of which not over 70 milligrams is in a free state. 

The label of each package of sulphured foods, . . . shall bear 
a statement that the food is preserved with sulphur dioxid, . . . and 
the label must not bear a serial number assigned to any guaranty 
filed with the Department of Agriculture nor any statement 
that the article is guaranteed to conform to the food and drugs 
act. 

The use of any dye, harmless or otherwise, to color or stain 
a food in a manner whereby damage or inferiority is concealed 
is specifically prohibited by law. The use in food for any pur- 
pose of any mineral dye or any coal-tar dye, except those coal- 
tar dyes hereinafter listed, will be grounds for prosecution. 
Pending further investigations now under way and the announce- 
ment thereof, the coal-tar dyes hereinafter named, made specif- 
ically for use in foods, and which bear a guaranty from the 
manufacturer that they are free from subsidiary products and 
represent the actual substance the name of which they bear, may 
be used in foods. In every case a certificate that the dye in 
question has been tested by competent experts and found to be 
free from harmful constituents must be filed with the Secretary 
of Agriculture and approved by him. 

The following coal-tar dyes which may be used in this manner 
are given numbers, the numbers preceding the names referring 
to the number of the dye in question as listed in A. G. Green's 



APPENDIX B 



509 



edition of the Schultz- Julius Systematic Survey of the Organic 
Coloring Matters, published in 1904. 
The list is as follows : 

Red shades: 
107. Amaranth. 
56. Ponceau 3 R. 
517. Erythrosin. 

Orange shade: 
85. Orange I. 

Yellow shade: 

4. Naphthol yellow S. 

Green shade: 

435. Light green S. F. yellowish. 

Blue shade: 
692. Indigo disulfoacid. 

Each of these colors shall be free from any coloring matter 
other than the one specified and shall not contain any con- 
tamination due to imperfect or incomplete manufacture. . . . 

H. W. Wiley, 
Frederick L. Dunlap, 
Geo. p. McCabe, 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection. 

Approved : 
James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 
Geo. B. Cortelyou. 

Secretary of the Treasury. 
Oscar Straus, 

Secretary of Commerce and Labor, 
Washington, D. C., June 18, igoy. 



5IO FOOD PRODUCTS 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 77 

CERTIFICATE AND CONTROL OF DYES PERMISSIBLE FOR 
USE IN COLORING FOODS AND FOODSTUFFS 

The Department of Agriculture is in receipt of a large number 
of inquiries concerning the interpretation to be put on that 
portion of F. I. D. 76 which refers to coal-tar dyes not inhibited 
for use in coloring foods and foodstuffs. 

The term " manufacturer," as used in F. I. D. 76 and in the 
present decision, applies to a person or company responsible 
for the purification of the crude or raw dye for the purpose of 
placing it in a condition fit for use in foods and foodstuffs ; or 
to the accredited selling agent in the United States of such per- 
son or company. Such accredited agent must file, on behalf 
of his foreign principal, if the latter does not file it, a manu- 
facturer's certificate, and it will be considered that the responsi- 
•biUty for such certificate will rest upon the accredited agent and 
not upon the foreign principal. 

For each permitted dye two certificates must be filed by the 
manufacturer, the first to be known as the " Foundation certifi- 
cate," the second known as the " Manufacturer's certificate." 
It is suggested that the foundation certificate be in the following 
form: 

Foundation Certificate 

I, , the undersigned, residing at 

(Street address.) 

in the city of , county of , State 

of , hereby certify under oath that I have personally 

examined and tested for , of , 

(Full name of concern.) (City.) 

county of , State of , the 

material known as , which corresponds to the coloring 

matter numbered in A. G. Green's Edition (1904) of the Schultz- 

Julius " Systematic Survey of the Organic Coloring Matters," and of which a 
one (i) pound sample marked is herewith submitted. I have found 



APPENDIX B 511 

the said material to consist of that coloring matter only, to be free from harm- 
ful constituents, and not to contain any contamination due to imperfect or 
incomplete manufacture. 

( Here insert a complete statement of all the tests applied to determine : 

A. Identity. 

B. Absence of 

a. Mineral or metallic poisons. 

b. Harmful organic constituents. 

c. Contamination due to improper or incomplete manufacture. 

Special attention should he given to setting forth fully the quantities or volume 
of each material and reagent employed, its strength or concentration, tempera- 
ture, duration of treatment, limits of delicacy of tests employed, and any other 
information that is necessary to enable others to repeat accurately and correctly 
all the work herein referred to and thus arrive at identical results. For each test 
performed, state what conclusions are drawn from it and why.) 



(Signature of chemist making the examination.) 

Certification 

For the manufacturer's certificate the following form is 
suggested : 

Manufacturer's Certificate 

I, , the undersigned, a resident of the United States 

doing business at , in the city of , 

(Street address.) 

county of , State of , under the 

style of , do hereby certify under oath that I am 

(Full name of concern.) 

the manufacturer of the material known as , which 

corresponds to the coloring matter numbered in the 1904 Green 

Edition of the Schultz- Julius Tables, of which the accompanying foundation 

certificate, signed by , the examining chemist, is 

the report of an analysis of a fair, average sample drawn from a total batch 
of pounds. 



(Signature of manufacturer.) 

Certification. 

The foundation certificate must be filed with the Secretary of 
Agriculture at the time the first request is made of the Secretary 



512 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



to use any or all of the permitted dyes for coloring foods and 
foodstuffs. 

The following form of supplemental certificate is suggested 
in those cases where a manufacturer desires to apply for per- 
mission to place on the market a new batch of a coal-tar dye, 
which dye has already had a foundation certificate and a manu- 
facturer's certificate filed for it. 

Supplemental Certificate 
I, , the undersigned, residing at , 



(Street address.) 

in the city of , county of , State 

of , hereby certify under oath that I have personally 

examined and tested for , of , 

(Full name of concern.) (City.) 

county of , State of , the 

material known as , which corresponds to the coloring 

matter numbered in x\. G. Green's Edition (1904) of the Schultz- 

Julius '' Systematic Survey of the Organic Coloring Matters," of which a one 

(i) pound sample marked is herewith submitted, and I have found it 

to consist of that coloring matter only and to be free from harmful constitu- 
ents and not to contain any contamination due to imperfect or incomplete 
manufacture. 

This examination was conducted in strict accordance with the detailed 
scheme of examination fully set forth in the foundation certificate filed 



(Date.) 

(Signature of chemist.) 

Certification. 

This supplemental certificate should likewise be accompanied 
by the same type of manufacturer's certificate as is described 
above. 

When the certificates filed with the Department of Agri- 
culture are found to be satisfactory, a "lot number " will be 
assigned to each batch, which lot number shall apply to that 
batch alone and to no other batch of the same color. 



APPENDIX B 513 

According to F. I. D. 76, the seven permitted coal-tar dyes 
therein named, made specifically for use in foods, may be used 
in foods provided they bear a guaranty from the manufacturer 
that they are free from subsidiary products and represent the 
actual substance the name of which they bear. The guaranty 
herein considered shall be applied as follows : 

Each package sold by the manufacturer should bear the legend 
"Part of Certified Lot Number . . . ." The foundation certif- 
icate, as well as the corresponding supplemental certificate, 
does not apply to any certified dye beyond the package originally 
prepared by the one establishing this certificate. If such a 
package be broken and the dye therein contained be repacked, 
the repacked dye, except as hereinafter provided, becomes an 
uncertified dye, and as such is inhibited. 

There is no objection on the part of the Department of Agri- 
culture to mixtures made from these permitted and certified 
dyes, by those who have filed certificates with the Department, 
but one (i) pound samples of such mixtures, and the trade 
name under which each mixture is sold, must be sent to the 
Secretary of Agriculture, and no such trade name or keyed 
modification thereof may be used for any other mixture. 

The exact formula — that is, the true names as well as the 
numbers assigned to the original package and the proportions 
of the ingredients used — should be deposited with the Secretary 
of Agriculture, but such formula need not appear on the label ; 
in lieu of which may appear the legend " Made from Certified 
Lots Number . . . and Number . . . ," etc. If the packages of 
these mixtures bearing this legend be broken and repacked, the 
mixture becomes, except as hereinafter provided, an uncertified 
one, and hence its use is inhibited ; that is, the guaranty of the 
manufacturer shall extend only to the" packages prepared by 
himself and only for so long as they remain in the unbroken 
form. Whenever new lots of previously established mixtures 
are made, making use of new certified straight dyes therein. 



514 FOOD PRODUCTS 

thus necessitating a change in the label, i -pound samples 
of the new mixtures should be sent to the Secretary of 
Agriculture. 

The term " competent experts " as used in F. I. D. 76 applies 
to those who, by reason of their training and experience, are 
able to examine coal-tar coloring matter to ascertain its identity 
and to determine the absence of foreign matter not properly 
belonging to the product, which, if present, renders the substance 
unlit for use in food products. 

The term " batch " as used above is such a quantity of the 
product as has undergone the same treatment at the same time 
and the same place as a unit and not otherwise — that is, the 
lot for one purification.^ 

Those to whom certification is given with respect to their 
dyes and a lot number assigned should control the sale of such 
batches so that they may account to the Department of Agri- 
culture by inspection of their books or otherwise for the desti- 
nation and disposal of each batch. 

Those using these certified dyes in the preparation of foods 
and foodstuffs must be in a position to substantiate the 
fact that the dyes so used were of a properly certified 
character. 

There is no guaranty on the part of the Department of Agri- 
culture that because the tests described in any foundation certif- 
icate have once been accepted, the permanency of such accept- 
ance is assured. 

In those cases where a package of a straight dye or a mixture 
of such dyes, bearing proper labels to the effect that they are 
of a certified lot or lots, is broken and repacked in still smaller 
lots, or treated with solvents, mixed, etc., the person or company 
so treating these dyes must stand sponsor for their integrity. 
This may be accomplished by submitting a statement to the 
Secretary of Agriculture as follows : 

1 This definition is extended in Food Inspection Decision io6 (see below). 



APPENDIX B 515 

Secondary Certificate 

I, , residing at , do hereby 

(Full address.) 

certify under oath that I have repacked lbs. of certified lot (or lots) 

purchased from , of 

This repacking has been accomplished in the following 

fashion : 

(Full description of what has been done with the lot or lots.) 

(Name.) 

Certification. 

On presentation of this certified form, properly filled out, 
to the Secretary of Agriculture, a lot number will be assigned, 
which number should be used in labeling according to the methods 
already described. If, for example, a portion of lot number 
" 127 " is repacked in smaller packages, the lot number " 127 A " 
will be assigned to this repacked dye, to enable the Department 
to follow this into consumption if necessary and still trace it 
back to the person by whom the dye was originally certified. 

H. W. Wiley, 
f. l. dunlap, 
Geo. p. McCabe, 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection. 
Approved : 
James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, September 16 ^ 1907. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 106 

AMENDMENT TO FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 77 
(A definition of the terms "Batch" and "Mixtures" as used therein.) 

The definition of the term " batch " as given on page 4, lines 
12 to 14 of Food Inspection Decision 77, is hereby extended 



5i6 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



to include also the contents of any one package, cask, or other 
container holding 500 pounds or less of dye, even though the 
contents of such package, cask, or container has not undergone 
the same treatment at the same time and the same place as a 
unit. 

The word " mixtures " as used on page 3, Hne 15 from the 
bottom, and following, of Food Inspection Decision 77 is hereby 
declared to mean not only such mixtures as consist wholly of 
certified coal-tar dyes but also those which contain one or more 
certified coal-tar dyes (and no other coal-tar dye or dyes) in 
combination with other components, constituents, or ingredients 
not coal-tar dyes, which other components, constituents, or 
ingredients are in and of themselves or in the combination used 
harmless and not detrimental to health or are not prohibited for 
use in food products ; the exact formula of such mixtures, in- 
cluding all of the components, constituents, or ingredients, or 
other parts of the mixture, together with a statement of the 
total weight of mixture so made, must be deposited with the 
Secretary of Agriculture and a one (i) pound sample thereof 
must be sent to the Secretary of Agriculture, but such 
formula need not appear on the label ; in lieu of which may 
appear the legend " Made from certified lots Number . . . 
and Number . . . , etc.," and no mention need be made of 
any constituent or constituents other than of the certified coal- 
tar dyes employed. 

H. W. Wiley, 
f. l. dunlap, 
Geo. p. McCabe, 

Board of Food and Drug Inspection, 
Approved: 

James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 

Washington, D. C, March ig, igog. 



APPENDIX B 517 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 126 

SALTS OF TIN IN FOOD 

The attention of the board has been directed to canned goods 
which contain salts of tin derived from the solvent action of the 
contents of the package upon the tin coating. Pending further 
investigations on this question all canned goods which are 
prepared prior to January i, 191 1, will be permitted to enter 
and pass into interstate commerce without detention or restric- 
tion in so far as their content of tin salts is concerned. All 
foods which are canned subsequently to January i, 191 1, will 
be permitted importation and interstate commerce if they do 
not contain more than 300 milligrams of tin per kilogram, or 
salts of tin equivalent thereto. When the amount of tin, or an 
equivalent amount of salts of tin, is greater than 300 milligrams 
per kilogram, entry of such canned goods packed subsequently 
to January i, 191 1, will be refused, and if found in interstate 
commerce proper action will be taken. 

It is the opinion of the board that the trade will experience 
little hardship in adjusting itself to this condition, as the re- 
sults of examinations made by the Bureau of Chemistry of various 
types of canned goods indicate that in a very large majority 
of cases inconsiderable quantities of tin are found, well within 
the limit herein set. 

H. W. Wiley, 

F. L. DUNLAP, 

Geo. P. McCabe, 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection. 
Approved : 

James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C, September 22, igio. 



5i8 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 129 



THE CERTIFICATION OF STRAIQHT DYES AND MIXTURES 
UNDER SECONDARY CERTIFICATES. (AMENDMENT TO 
F. I. D. 77-) 

In Food Inspection Decision 77 provision is made for the 
recertification of straight dyes (i.e., the seven accepted dyes 
of F. I. D. 76) and mixtures thereof, with or without other harm- 
less ingredients. 

Doubt has been expressed as to whether the requirements of 
F. I. D. 77, with respect to certification, are the same for those 
who are not manufacturers as they are for manufacturers. This 
amendment is issued relative to recertification in order to remove 
uncertainty and to indicate the scope of F. I. D. 77. 

All persons, manufacturers or others, requesting certification 
of mixtures or recertification of straight dyes, or of mixtures or 
combinations thereof, shall submit the following form of secon- 
dary certificate to the Secretary of Agriculture : 

Secondary Certificate 

I, , residing at , do hereby depose and state 

(Full address.) 

that I have repacked .... lbs. of certified lot (or lots) purchased from 

, of 

This repacking has been accomplished in the following fashion : 

(Full description of what has been done with the lot or lots.) 

Certified mixture No. J.D. & Co , or certified straight dye No. J. D. 

& Co 

Trade name 



(Name.) 

Subscribed and sworn to before me, , in and for the . 

of at , this .... day of , 



(Name of oflBcer authorized to administer oaths.) 



APPENDIX B 519 

When the secondary certificate refers to mixtures, the term 
" mixture " means — 

not only such mixtures as consist wholly of certified coal-tar dyes, but also those 
which contain one or more certified coal-tar dyes (and no other coal-tar dye or 
dyes) in combination with other components, constituents, or ingredients 
not coal-tar dyes, which other components, constituents, or ingredients are 
in and of themselves or in the combination used harmless and not detri- 
mental to health or are not prohibited for use in food products ; the exact 
formula of such mixtures, including all of the components, constituents, or 
ingredients, or other parts of the mixture, together with a statement of the 
total weight of mixtures so made, must be deposited with the Secretary of 
Agriculture. (F. I. D. 106.) 

The term " straight dye," as used herein, refers to the seven 
dyes specified in F. I. D. 76. 

In the case of mixtures one (i) pound samples, and in the case 
of straight dyes one half (J) pound samples must be submitted 
with the secondary certificate. If larger samples are needed in 
individual cases the Department will ask for them. 

Only those mixtures will be certified which contain no other 
dyes than coal-tar dyes previously certified. Mixtures contain- 
ing animal or vegetable dyes are not subject to certification. 

The above form for secondary certificates varies but slightly 
from that given in Food Inspection Decision No. 77. It con- 
tains the addition "Certified mixture No. J. D. & Co. . . . " 
and " Certified straight dye No. J. D. & Co. . . ." When the 
manufacturer or other person submits a secondary certificate, 
whichever legend is appropriate to the certificate is to be used. 
The initials are to be those of the person or firm filing the certif- 
icate ; the blank space is to be filled with the number of the 
secondary certificate filed by that particular person or firm. 
For example, the firm of J. D. & Co. has already filed fourteen 
secondary certificates, the new one to be filed under the form 
given above will then be labeled '' Certified mixture No. J. D. 
& Co. 15," or " Certified straight dye No. J. D. & Co. '15," 
as the case may be. That is, the recertified straight dyes or 



520 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



certified mixtures are to be given a number in regular order, 
according to the number of such secondary certificates filed by 
any person or firm. The completed legend is the one to be 
used in marketing the products thus submitted under the second- 
ary certificate. Notification will be given of the acceptance 
or rejection of the certificate when investigation of the product 
has been completed. 

Makers of secondary certificates must submit the trade name 
of mixtures produced, and no such trade name or keyed modi- 
fication thereof should be used on any other mixture prepared 
by the same person or company. 

Secondary certificates are to be sent in duplicate to the De- 
partment of Agriculture; the duplicate need not, however, be 
signed or sworn to. The samples should be submitted with 
the secondary certificates. 

H. W. Wiley, 
f. l. dunlap, 
Geo. p. McCabe, 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection. 
Approved : 

James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, November 8, igio. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 135 
SACCHARIN IN FOOD 

At the request of the Secretary of Agriculture, the Referee 
Board of Consulting Scientific Experts has conducted an in- 
vestigation as to the effect on health of the use of saccharin. 
The investigation has been concluded, and the Referee Board 
reports that the continued use of saccharin for a long time in 
quantities over three tenths of a gram per day is liable to impair 
digestion; and that the addition of saccharin as a substitute 



APPENDIX B 521 

for cane sugar or other forms of sugar reduces the food value 
of the sweetened product and hence lowers its quality. 

Saccharin has been used as a substitute for sugar in over 
thirty classes of foods in which sugar is commonly recognized 
as a normal and valuable ingredient. If the use of saccharin 
be continued it is evident that amounts of saccharin may readily 
be consumed which will, through continual use, produce di- 
gestive disturbances. In every food in which saccharin is used, 
some other sweetening agent known to be harmless to health 
can be substituted, and there is not even a pretense that saccharin 
is a necessity in the manufacture of food products. Under the 
food and drugs act articles of food are adulterated if they con- 
tain added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredients 
which may render them injurious to health. Articles of food 
are also adulterated within the meaning of the act, if substances 
have been mixed and packed with the foods so as to reduce or 
lower or injuriously affect their quality or strength. The find- 
ings of the Referee Board show that saccharin in food is such 
an added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient as 
is contemplated by the act, and also that the substitution of 
saccharin for sugar in foods reduces and lowers their quality. 

The Secretary of Agriculture, therefore, will regard as adul- 
terated under the food and drugs act foods containing saccharin 
which, on and after July i, 191 1, are manufactured or offered 
for sale in the District of Columbia or the Territories, or shipped 
in interstate or foreign commerce, or offered for importation 
into the United States. 

Franklin MacVeagh, 
Secretary of the Treasury. 

James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 

Charles Nagel, 
Secretary of Commerce and Labor. 
Washington, D. C, April 26, 191 1. 



^22 FOOD PRODUCTS 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 138 

SACCHARIN IN FOOD 

Paragraph 3 of Food Inspection Decision No. 135 is hereby 
modified to read as follows: 

The Secretary of Agriculture, therefore, will regard as adulterated under 
the food and drugs act foods containing saccharin which, on and after 
January i, 191 2, are manufactured or oflfered for sale in the District of 
Columbia or the Territories, or shipped in interstate or foreign commerce, 
or offered for importation into the United States. 

Franklin MacVeagh, 
Secretary oj the Treasury. 
James Wilson, 
Secretary oj Agriculture. 
Charles Nagel, 
Secretary oj Commerce and Labor. 
Washington, D. C, June 20, igii. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 142 

SACCHARIN IN FOOD 

The following decision which relates to the use of saccharin in 
food will not go into effect until the ist of April, 191 2, the month 
of March being given to interested parties so as to arrange their 
business and take such steps as they deem proper. 

James Wilson, 
Secretary oj Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, March i, igi2. 

After full consideration of the representations made in behalf 
of the manufacturers of saccharin at the hearing before us and 
of the briefs filed by their attorneys, as well as the briefs filed, 
at our request, by officers of the Department of Agriculture, we 
conclude that the use of saccharin in normal foods, within the 



APPENDIX B 523 

jurisdiction of the Food and Drugs Act, is a violation of law and 
will be prosecuted. 

It is true that the Referee Board did not find that the use in 
foods of saccharin in small quantities (up to 0.3 gram daily) is 
injurious to health. However, the Referee Board did find 
that saccharin used in quantities over 0.3 gram per day for a 
considerable period is liable to disturb digestion, and the Food 
and Drugs Act provides that articles of food are adulterated 
which contain any added poisonous or other added deleterious 
ingredient which may render them injurious to health. 

The Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of Agriculture 
reports that saccharin has been found in more than fifty kinds 
of foods in common use. It is argued, therefore, that if the use 
of saccharin in foods be allowed, the consumer may very easily 
ingest, day by day, over 0.3 gram, the quantity which, according 
to the findings of the Referee Board, is liable to produce dis- 
turbances of digestion. On the other hand, it is claimed by 
the manufacturers that the sweetening power of saccharin 
is so great that, in a normal dietary, the amount of saccharin 
ingested daily would not exceed 0.3 gram, the amount found to 
be harmless by the Referee Board. 

However this may be, it is plain, from the finding of the Ref- 
eree Board, that the substitution of saccharin for sugar lowers 
the quality of the food. The only use of saccharin in foods is 
as a sweetener, and when it is so used, it inevitably displaces 
the sugar of an equivalent sweetening power. Sugar has a food 
value and saccharin has none. It appears, therefore, that nor- 
mal foods sweetened with saccharin are adulterated under the 
law. 

In making this decision we are not unmindful of the fact that 
persons suffering from certain diseases may be directed by their 
physicians to abstain from the use of sugar. In cases of this 
kind, saccharin is often prescribed as a substitute sweetening 
agent. This decision will not in any manner interfere with 



524 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



such a use of saccharin. The Food and Drugs Act provides 
that any substance which is intended to be used for the pre- 
vention, cure, or mitigation of disease is a drug, and a product 
containing saccharin and plainly labeled to show that the mix- 
ture is intended for the use of those persons who, on account of 
disease, must abstain from the use of sugar, falls within the class 
of drugs and is not affected by this decision. 
The Secretary of the Treasury dissents. 

James Wilson, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
Charles Nagel, 
Secretary of Commerce and Labor. 
Washington, D. C, February 2g, igi2. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 144 

CANNED FOODS : USE OF WATER, BRINE, SIRUP, SAUCE, AND 
SIMILAR SUBSTANCES IN THE PREPARATION THEREOF 

The can in canned food products serves not only as a con- 
tainer but also as an index of the quantity of food therein. It 
should be as full of food as is practicable for packing and pro- 
cessing without injuring the quality or appearance of the con- 
tents. Some food products may be canned without the addi- 
tion of any other substances whatsoever — for example, tomatoes. 
The addition of water in such instances is deemed adulteration. 
Other foods may require the addition of water, brine, sugar, 
or sirup, either to combine with the food for its proper prepara- 
tion or for the purpose of sterilization — for instance, peas. 
In this case the can should be packed as full as practicable with 
the peas and should contain only sufficient liquor to fill the inter- 
stices and cover the product. 

Canned foods, therefore, will be deemed to be adulterated 
if they are found to contain water, brine, sirup, sauce, or similar 



APPENDIX B 525 

substances in excess of the amount necessary for their proper 
preparation and sterilization. 

It has come to the notice of the department that pulp pre- 
pared from trimmings, cores, and other waste material is some- 
times added to canned tomatoes. It is the opinion of the 
board that pulp is not a normal ingredient of canned tomatoes, 
and such addition is therefore adulteration. It is the further 
opinion of the board that the addition of tomato juice in excess 
of the amount present in the tomatoes used is adulteration — • 
that is, if in the canning of a lot of tomatoes more juice be added 
than is present in that lot, the same will be considered an adultera- 
tion. 

R. E. DOOLITTLE, 

A. S. Mitchell, 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection. 
Approved : 

James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, May 22, 1912. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 146 
ON THE USE OF SACCHARIN IN FOODS 

There appears to exist a misconception of the position of the 
Department of Agriculture as to the use of saccharin in foods as 
announced in Food Inspection Decision No. 142. That decision 
prohibits the use of saccharin in foods. The law defines the 
term " drug " and it is considered that saccharin has its proper 
place in products coming within this definition. 

It is recognized that certain specific products generally- 
classified as foods, and sweetened with saccharin, may be re- 
quired for the mitigation or cure of disease. It is not intended 
to prohibit the manufacture or sale of such products, provided 



526 FOOD PRODUCTS 

they are labeled so as to show their true purpose and the presence 
of saccharin is plainly declared upon the principal label. This 
must not be interpreted to mean that the use of saccharin in 
foods prepared for ordinary consumption is permissible even if 
declared on the label. 

R. E. DOOLITTLE, 
F. L. DUNLAP, 

A. S. Mitchell, 
Board of Food and Drug Inspection. 

Approved : 

James Wilson, 

Secretary of Agriculture. 
Washington, D. C, June 22, igi2. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 153 

AMENDMENT TO REGULATION 9, RELATING TO GUARANTIES 
BY WHOLESALERS, JOBBERS, MANUFACTURERS, AND OTHER 
PARTIES RESIDING IN THE UNITED STATES TO PROTECT 
DEALERS FROM PROSECUTION 

Regulation 9 of the Rules and Regulations for the enforcement 
of the Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906 (34 Stat., 768), is 
hereby amended, effective May i, 191 5, so as to read as follows : 

regulation 9- GUARANTY 

(Section 9.) 

{a) It having been determined that the legends " Guaranteed 
under the Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906," and " Guaranteed 
by (name of guarantor), under the Food and Drugs Act, June 
30, 1906," borne on the labels or packages of food and drugs, 
accompanied by serial numbers given by the Secretary of Agri- 
culture, are each misleading and deceptive, in that the public 
is induced by such legends and serial numbers to believe that 



APPENDIX B 527 

the articles to which they relate have been examined and approved 
by the Government and that the Government guarantees that 
they comply with the law, the use of either legend, or any similar 
legend, on labels or packages should be discontinued. Inasmuch 
as the acceptance by the Secretary of Agriculture for filing of 
the guaranties of manufacturers and dealers and the giving by 
him of serial numbers thereto contribute to the deceptive char- 
acter of legends on labels and packages, no guaranty in any form 
shall hereafter be filed with and no serial number shall hereafter 
be given to any guaranty by the Secretary of Agriculture. All 
guaranties now on file with the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
be stricken from the files, and the serial numbers assigned to 
such guaranties shall be canceled. 

(b) The use on the label or package of any food or drug of any 
serial number required to be canceled by paragraph (a) of this 
regulation is prohibited. 

(c) Any wholesaler, manufacturer, jobber, or other party 
residing in the United States may furnish to any dealer to whom 
he sells any article of food or drug a guaranty that such article 
is not adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the Food 
and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906, as amended. 

(d) Each guaranty to afford protection shall be signed by, 
and shall contain the name and address of, the wholesaler, 
manufacturer, jobber, dealer, or other party residing in the United 
States making the sale of the article or articles covered by it 
to the dealer, and shall be to the effect that such article or articles 
are not adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the 
Federal Food and Drugs Act. 

(e) Each guaranty in respect to any article or articles should be 
incorporated in or attached to the bill of sale, invoice, bill of 
lading, or other schedule, giving the names and quantities of 
the article or articles sold, and should not appear on the labels 
or packages. 

(f) No dealer in food or drug products will be liable to pros- 



528 FOOD PRODUCTS 

ecution if he can establish that the articles were sold under 
a guaranty given in compliance with this regulation. 

W. G. McAdoo, 
Secretary oj the Treasury. 
D. F. Houston, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 
William C. Redfield, 
Secretary of Commerce. 
Washington, D. C, May 5, 1Q14. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 154 

REGULATION OF MARKING THE QUANTITY OF FOOD IN 
PACKAGE FORM 

Under section 3 of the Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906 
(34 United States Statutes at Large, pages 768 to 772), as amended 
by the Act of March 3, 1913, entitled '' An Act to amend section 
eight of an Act entitled ' An Act for preventing the manu- 
facture, sale, or transportation of adulterated or misbranded or 
poisonous or deleterious foods, drugs, medicines, and liquors, 
and for regulating traffic therein, and for other purposes,' 
approved June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and six " (37 United 
States Statutes at Large, page 732), Regulation 29 of the Rules 
and Regulations for the Enforcement of the Food and Drugs 
Act is hereby amended so as to read as follows : 

STATEMENT OF WEIGHT, MEASURE, OR COUNT 
(Section 8, paragraph 3, under "Food," as amended by act of March 3, 1913.) 

{a) Except as otherwise provided by this regulation, the 
quantity of the contents, in all cases of food, if in package form, 
must be plainly and conspicuously marked, in terms of weight, 
measure, or numerical count, on the outside of the covering 
or container usually delivered to consumers. 



APPENDIX B 529 

(b) The quantity of the contents so marked shall be the amount 
of food in the package. 

(c) The statement of the quantity of the contents shall be 
plain and conspicuous, shall not be a part of or obscured by any 
legend or design, and shall be so placed and in such characters 
as to be readily seen and clearly legible when the size of the 
package and the circumstances under which it is ordinarily 
examined by purchasers or consumers are taken into consid- 
eration. 

(d) If the quantity of the contents be stated by weight or 
measure, it shall be marked in terms of the largest unit con- 
tained in the package; for example, if the package contain a 
pound, or pounds, and a fraction of a pound, the contents shall 
be expressed in terms of pounds and fractions thereof; or of 
pounds and ounces, and not merely in ounces. 

(e) Statements of weight shall be in terms of avoirdupois 
pounds and ounces; statements of liquid measure shall be in 
terms of the United States gallon of 231 cubic inches and its 
customary subdivisions, i.e., in gallons, quarts, pints, or fluid 
ounces, and shall express the volume of the liquid at 68° F. 
(20° C.) ; and statements of dry measure shall be in terms of 
the United States standard bushel of 2,150.42 cubic inches and 
its customary subdivisions, i.e., in bushels, half bushels, pecks, 
quarts, pints, or half pints: Provided, That, by like method, 
such statements may be in terms of metric weight or measure. 

(J) The quantity of solids shall be stated in terms of weight 
and of liquids in terms of measure, except that in case of an 
article in respect to which there exists a definite trade custom 
otherwise, the statement may be in terms of weight or measure 
in accordance with such custom. The quantity of viscous or 
semi-solid foods, or of mixtures of solids and liquids, may be 
stated either by weight or measure, but the statement shall be 
definite and shall indicate whether the quantity is expressed 
in terms of weight or measure as, for example, " Weight 12 oz.," 

2 M 



530 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



or " 12 oz. avoirdupois "; " Volume 12 ounces," or "12 fluid 
ounces." 

(g) The quantity of the contents shall be stated in terms of 
weight or measure unless the package be marked by numerical 
count and such numerical count gives accurate information as 
to the quantity of the food in the package. 

{h) The quantity of the contents may be stated in terms of 
minimum weight, minimum measure, or minimum count, for 
example, " mininum weight 16 oz.," " minimum volume i 
gallon," or " not less than 4 oz." ; but in such case the statement 
must approximate the actual quantity and there shall be no 
tolerance below the stated minimum. 

(i) The following tolerances and variations from the quantity 
of the contents marked on the package shall be allowed : 

(i) Discrepancies due exclusively to errors in weighing, 
measuring, or counting which occur in packing conducted in 
compliance with good commercial practice. 

(2) Discrepancies due exclusively to differences in the capacity 
of bottles and similar containers resulting solely from unavoid- 
able difficulties in manufacturing such bottles or containers so 
as to be of uniform capacity : Provided, That no greater tolerance 
shall be allowed in case of bottles or similar containers which, 
because of their design, cannot be made of approximate uniform 
capacity than is allowed in case of bottles or similar containers 
which can be manufactured so as to be of approximate uniform 
capacity. 

(3) Discrepancies in weight or measure, due exclusively to 
differences in atmospheric conditions in various places, and which 
unavoidably result from the ordinary and customary exposure 
of the packages to evaporation or to the absorption of water. 

Discrepancies under classes (i) and (2) of this paragraph 
shall be as often above as below the marked quantity. The 
reasonableness of discrepancies under class (3) of this paragraph 
will be determined on the facts in each case. 



APPENDIX B 



531 



(/) A package containing two avoirdupois ounces of food or 
less is " small " and shall be exempt from marking in terms of 
weight. 

{k) A package containing one fluid ounce of food or less is 
" small " and shall be exempt from marking in terms of 
measure. 

(0 When a package is not required by paragraph (g) to be 
marked in terms of either weight or measure, and the units of 
food therein are six or less, it shall, for the purpose of this reg- 
ulation, be deemed " small " and shall be exempt from marking 
in terms of numerical count. 

W. G. McAdoo, 
Secretary of the Treasury. 
D. F. Houston, 
Secretary 0] Agriculture. 
William C. Redfield, 

Secretary oj Commerce. 
Washington, D. C, May 11, 1^14. 

FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 155 

CHANGING EFFECTIVE DATE OF FOOD INSPECTION DECISION 
NO. 153, WHICH AMENDS REGULATION 9, RELATING TO 
GUARANTIES BY WHOLESALERS, JOBBERS, MANUFAC- 

. TURERS, AND OTHER PARTIES RESIDING IN THE UNITED 
STATES, TO PROTECT DEALERS FROM PROSECUTION 

The effective date of Food Inspection Decision No. 153, 
issued May 5, 1914, is hereby postponed until May i, 1916 : 
Provided, That as to products packed and labeled prior to May i, 
1 91 6, in accordance with law and with the regulations in force 
prior to May 5, 1914, it shall become effective November i, 
1916 ; And provided further, That compliance with the terms 
of Regulation 9 of the Rules and Regulations for the enforce- 



532 FOOD PRODUCTS 

ment of the Food and Drugs Act as amended by Food Inspection 
Decision No. 153 will be permitted at any time after the date 
of this decision. 

C. S. Hamlin, 
Acting Secretary of the Treasury, 

D. F. Houston, 
Secretary of Agriculture. 

William C. Redfield, 
Secretary of Commerce. 
Washington, D. C, May, 2g, 191 4, 



APPENDIX C 

METHODS AND STANDARDS FOR THE PRODUC- 
TION AND DISTRIBUTION OF CERTIFIED MILK 

(Adopted by the American Association of Medical Milk Commissions, May 

I, 1912.) 

HYGIENE OF THE DAIRY 

UNDER THE SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF THE VETERINARIAN 

1. Pastures or paddocks. Pastures or paddocks to which the cows have 
access shall be free from marshes or stagnant pools, crossed by no stream 
which might become dangerously contaminated, at sufficient distances from 
offensive conditions to suffer no bad effects from them, and shall be free from 
plants which affect the milk deleteriously. 

2. Surroundings of buildings. The surroundings of all buildings shall be 
kept clean and free from accumulations of dirt, rubbish, decayed vegetable 
or animal matter or animal waste, and the stable yard shall be well drained. 

3. Location of buildings. Buildings in which certified milk is produced 
and handled shall be so located as to insure proper shelter and good drainage, 
and at sufficient distance from other buildings, dusty roads, cultivated and 
dusty fields, and all other possible sources of contamination ; provided, in 
the case of unavoidable proximity to dusty roads or fields, the exposed side 
shall be screened with cheesecloth. 

4. Construction of stables. The stables shall be constructed so as to facili- 
tate the prompt and easy removal of waste products. The floors and plat- 
forms shall be made of cement or other nonabsorbent material and the gutters 
of cement only. The floors shall be properly graded and drained, and the 
manure gutters shall be from 6 to 8 inches deep and so placed in relation to 
the platform that all manure will drop into them. 

5. The inside surface of the walls and all interior construction shall be 
smooth, with tight joints, and shall be capable of shedding water. . The 
ceihng shall be of smooth material and dust tight. All horizontal and slant- 
ing surfaces which might harbor dust shall be avoided. 

533 



534 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



6. Drinking and feed troughs. Drinking troughs or basins shall be 
drained and cleaned each day, and feed troughs and mixing floors shall be 
kept in a clean and sanitary condition. 

7. Stanchions. Stanchions, when used, shall be constructed of iron 
pipes or hard wood, and throat latches shall be provided to prevent the cows 
from lying down between the time of cleaning and the time of milking. 

8. Ventilation. The cow stables shall be provided with adequate ven- 
tilation either by means of some approved artificial device, or by the sub- 
stitution of cheesecloth for glass in the windows, each cow to be provided 
with a minimum of 600 cubic feet of air space. 

9. Windows. A sufficient number of windows shall be installed and so 
distributed as to provide satisfactory light and a maximum of sunshine, 2 
feet square of window area to each 600 cubic feet of air space to represent the 
minimum. The coverings of such windows shall be kept free from dust and 
dirt. 

10. Exclusion of flies, etc. All necessary measures should be taken to 
prevent the entrance of flies and other insects and rats and other vermin into 
all the buildings. 

11. Exclusion of animals from the herd. No horses, hogs, dogs, or other 
animals or fowls shall be allowed to come in contact with the certified herd, 
either in the stables or elsewhere. 

12. Bedding. No dusty or moldy hay or straw, bedding from horse stalls, 
or other unclean materials shall be used for bedding the cows. Only bedding 
which is clean, dry, and absorbent may be used, preferably shavings or 
straw. 

13. Cleaning stable and disposal of manure. Soiled bedding and manure 
shall be removed at least twice daily, and the floors shall be swept and kept 
free from refuse. Such cleaning shall be done at least one hour before the 
milking time. Manure, when removed, shall be drawn to the field or tem- 
porarily stored in containers so screened as to exclude flies. Manure shall 
not be even temporarily stored within 300 feet of the barn or dairy building. 

14. Cleaning of cows. Each cow in the herd shall be groomed daily, and 
no manure, mud, or filth shall be allowed to remain upon her during milking ; 
for cleaning, a vacuum apparatus is recommended. 

15. Clipping. Long hairs shall be chpped from the udder and flanks of 
the cow and from the tail above the brush. The hair on the tail shall be cut 
so that the brush may be well above the ground. 

16. Cleaning of udders. The udders and teats of the cow shall be cleaned 
before milking ; they shall be washed with a cloth and water, and dry wiped 
with another clean sterilized cloth — a separate cloth for drying each cow. 

17. Feeding. All foodstuffs shall be kept in an apartment separate from 



APPENDIX C 535 

and not directly communicating with the cow bam. They shall be brought 
into the barn only immediately before the feeding hour, which shall follow 
the milking. 

1 8. Only those foods shall be used which consist of fresh, palatable, or nu- 
tritious materials, such as will not injure the health of the cows or unfavor- 
ably afifect the taste or character of the milk. Any dirty or moldy food or 
food in a state of decomposition or putrefaction shall not be given. 

19. A well-balanced ration shall be used, and all changes of food shall be 
made slowly. The first few feedings of grass, alfalfa, ensilage, green corn, or 
other green feeds shall be given in small rations and increased gradually to 
full ration. 

20. Exercise. All dairy cows shall be turned out for exercise at least 2 
hours in each 24 in suitable weather. Exercise yards shall be kept free from 
manure and other fifth. 

21. Washing of hands. Conveniently located facilites shall be provided 
for the milkers to wash in before and during milking. 

22. The hands of the milkers shall be thoroughly washed with soap, water, 
and brush and carefully dried on a clean towel immediately before milk- 
ing. The hands of the milkers shall be rinsed with clean water and carefully 
dried before milking each cow. The practice of moistening the hands with 
milk is forbidden. 

23. Milking clothes. Clean overalls, jumper, and cap shall be worn during 
milking. They shall be washed or sterilized each day and used for no other 
purpose, and when not in use they shall be kept in a clean place, protected 
from dust and dirt. 

24. Things to he avoided hy milkers. While engaged about the dairy or in 
handling the milk employees shall not use tobacco nor intoxicating liquors. 
They shall keep their fingers away from their nose and mouth, and no milker 
shall permit his hands, fingers, lips, or tongue to come in contact with milk 
intended for sale. 

25. During milking the milkers shall be careful not to touch anything but 
the clean top of the milking stool, the milk pail, and the cow's teats. 

26. Milkers are forbidden to spit upon the walls or floors of stables, or 
upon the walls or floors- of milk houses, or into the water used for cooling the 
milk or washing the utensils. 

27. Fore milk. The first streams from each teat shall be rejected, as this 
fore milk contains large numbers of bacteria. Such milk shall be collected 
into a separate vessel and not milked onto the floors or into the gutters. The 
milking shall be done rapidly and quietly, and the cows shall be treated kindly. 

28. Milk and calving period. Milk from all cows shall be excluded for a 
period of 45 days before and 7 days after parturition. 



536 FOOD PRODUCTS 

29. Bloody and stringy milk. If milk from any cow is bloody and stringy 
or of unnatural appearance, the milk from that cow shall be rejected and the 
cow isolated from the herd until the cause of such abnormal appearance has 
been determined and removed, special attention being given in the meantime 
to the feeding or to possible injuries. If dirt gets into the pail, the milk shall 
be discarded and the pail washed before it is used. 

30. Make-up of herd. No cows except those receiving the same super- 
vision and care as the certified herd shall be kept in the same barn or brought 
in contact with them. 

31. Employees other than milkers. The requirements for milkers, relative 
to garments and cleaning of hands, shall apply to all other persons handling 
the milk, and children unattended by adults shall not be allowed in the dairy 
nor in the stable during milking. 

32. Straining and strainers. Promptly after the milk is drawn it shall be 
removed from the stable to a clean room and then emptied from the milk pail 
to the can, being strained through strainers made of a double layer of finely 
meshed cheesecloth or absorbent cotton thoroughly sterilized. Several 
strainers shall be provided for each milking in order that they may be fre- 
quently changed. 

33. Dairy building. A dairy building shall be provided which shall be 
located at a distance from the stable and dwelling prescribed by the local 
commission, and there shall be no hogpen, privy, or manure pile at a higher 
level or within 300 feet of it. 

34. The dairy building shall be kept clean and shall not be used for pur- 
poses other than the handling and storing of milk and milk utensils. It shall 
be provided with light and ventilation, and the floors shall be graded and 
water-tight. 

35. The dairy building shall be well lighted and screened and drained 
through well-trapped pipes. No animals shall be allowed therein. No part 
of the dairy building shall be used for dwelling or lodging purposes, and the 
bottling room shall be used for no other purpose than to provide a place for 
clean milk utensils and for handling the milk. During bottling this room 
shall be entered only by persons employed therein. The bottling room shall 
be kept scrupulously clean and free from odors. 

36. Temperature of milk. Proper cooling to reduce the temperature to 
45° F. shall be used, and aerators shall be so situated that they can be pro- 
tected from flies, dust, and odors. The milk shall be cooled immediately 
after being milked, and maintained at a temperature between 35° and 45° F. 
until delivered to the consumer. 

37. Sealing of bottles. Milk, after being cooled and bottled, shall be 
immediately sealed in a manner satisfactory to the commission, but such 



\ 



APPENDIX C S37 

seal shall include a sterile hood which completely covers the lip of the 
bottle. 

38. Cleaning and sterilizing of bottles. The dairy building shall be pro- 
vided with approved apparatus for the cleansing and sterilizing of all bottles 
and utensils used in milk production. All bottles and utensils shall be 
thoroughly cleaned by hot water and sal soda, or equally pure agent, rinsed 
until the cleaning water is thoroughly removed, then exposed to live steam 
or boiling water at least 20 minutes, and then kept inverted until used, in a 
place free from dust and other contaminating materials. 

39. Utensils. All utensils shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned. 
The milk pail should preferably have an elliptical opening 5 by 7 inches in 
diameter. The cover of this pail should be so convex as to make the entire 
interior of the pail visible and accessible for cleaning. The pail shall be made 
of heavy seamless tin, and with seams which are flushed and made smooth by 
solder. Wooden pails, galvanized-iron pails, or pails made of rough, porous 
materials, are forbidden. All utensils used in milking shall be kept in good 
repair. 

40. Water supply. The entire water supply shall be absolutely free from 
contamination, and shall be sufficient for all dairy purposes. It shall be pro- 
tected against flood or surface drainage, and shall be conveniently situated in 
relation to the milk house. 

41 . Privies, etc. , in relation to water supply. Privies, pigpens, manure piles, 
and all other possible sources of contamination shall be so situated on the 
farm as to render impossible the contamination of the water supply, and shall 
be so protected by use of screens and other measures as to prevent their 
becoming breeding grounds for flies. 

42. Toilet rooms. Toilet facilities for the milkers shall be provided and 
located outside of the stable or milk house. These toilets shall be properly 
screened, shall be kept clean, and shall be accessible to wash basins, water, 
nail brush, soap, and towels, and the milkers shall be required to wash and dry 
their hands immediately after leaving the toilet room. 

TRANSPORTATION 

43. In transit the milk packages shall be kept free from dust and dirt. 
The wagon, trays, and crates shall be kept scrupulously clean. No bottles 
shall be collected from houses in which communicable diseases prevail, unless 
a separate wagon is used and under conditions prescribed by the depart- 
ment of health and the medical milk commission. 

44. All certified milk shall reach the consumer within 30 hours after 
milking. 



538 FOOD PRODUCTS 

VETERINARY SUPERVISION OF THE HERD 

45. Tuberculin test. The herd shall be free from tuberculosis, as shown by 
the proper application of the tuberculin test. The test shall be applied in 
accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Government, 
and all reactors shall be removed immediately from the farm.^ 

46. No new animals shall be admitted to the herd without first having 
passed a satisfactory tubercuHn test, made in accordance with the rules and 
regulations mentioned ; the tuberculin to be obtained and applied only by 
the official veterinarian of the commission. 

47. Immediately following the application of the tuberculin test to a herd 
for the purpose of eliminating tuberculous cattle, the cow stable and exercis- 
ing yards shall be disinfected by the veterinary inspector in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of the United States Government. 

48. A second tuberculin test shall follow each primary test after an inter- 
val of six months, and shall be applied in accordance with the rules and regu- 
lations mentioned. Thereafter, tuberculin tests shall be reapplied annually, 
but it is recommended that the retests be applied semiannually. 

49. Identification of cows. Each dairy cow in each of the certified herds 
shall be labelled or tagged with a number or mark which will permanently 
identify her. 

50. Herd-book record. Each cow in the herd shall be registered in a herd 
book, which register shall be accurately kept so that her entrance and de- 
parture from the herd and her tuberculin testing can be identified. 

51. A copy of this herd-book record shall be kept in the hands of the 
veterinarian of the medical milk commission under which the dairy farm is 
operating, and the veterinarian shall be made responsible for the accuracy 
of this record. 

52. Dates of tuberculin tests. The dates of the annual tuberculin tests 
shall be definitely arranged by the medical milk commission, and all of the 
results of such tests shall be recorded by the veterinarian and regularly re- 
ported to the secretary of the medical milk commission issuing the certificate. 

53. The results of all tuberculin tests shall be kept on file by each medical 
milk commission, and a copy of all such tests shall be made available to the 
American Association of Medical Milk Commissions for statistical purposes. 

54- The proper designated officers of the American Association of Medical 
Milk Commissions should receive copies of reports of all of the annual, semi- 
annual, and other official tuberculin tests which are made and keep copies of 
the same on file and compile them annually for the use of the association. 

1 See Circular of Instructions issued by the Bureau of Animal Industry for making 
tuberculin tests and for disinfection of premises. 



APPENDIX C 539 

55. Disposition of cows sick with diseases other than tuberculosis. Cows 
having rheumatism, leucorrhea, inflammation of the uterus, severe diarrhea, 
or disease of the udder, or cows that from any other cause may be a menace to 
the herd shall be removed from the herd and placed in a building separate 
from that which may be used for the isolation of cows with tuberculosis, un- 
less such building has been properly disinfected since it was last used for this 
purpose. The milk from such cows shall not be used nor shall the cows be 
restored to the herd until permission has been given by the veterinary inspec- 
tor after a careful physical examination. 

56. Notification of veterinary inspector. In the event of the occurrence of 
any of the diseases just described between the visits of the veterinary inspec- 
tor, or if at any time a number of cows become sick at one time in such a way 
as to suggest the outbreak of a contagious disease or poisoning, it shall be the 
duty of the dairyman to withdraw such sickened cattle from the herd, to 
destroy their milk, and to notify the veterinary inspector by telegraph or 
telephone immediately. 

57. Emaciated cows. Cows that are emaciated from chronic diseases or 
from any cause that in the opinion of the veterinary inspector may endanger 
the quality of the milk shall be removed from the herd. 

BACTERIOLOGICAL STANDARDS 

58. Bacterial counts. Certified milk shall contain less than 10,000 bac- 
teria per cubic centimeter when delivered. In case a count exceeding 10,000 
bacteria per cubic centimeter is found, daily counts shall be made, and if nor- 
mal counts are not restored within 10 days the certificate shall be suspended. 

59. Bacterial counts shall be made at least once a week. 

60. Collection of samples. The samples to be examined shall be obtained 
from milk as offered for sale and shall be taken by a representative of the milk 
commission. The samples shall be received in the original packages, in prop- 
erly iced containers, and they shall be so kept until examined, so as to limit 
as far as possible changes in their bacterial content. 

61. For the purpose of ascertaining the temperature, a separate original 
package shall be used, and the temperature taken at the time of collecting the 
sample, using for the purpose a standardized thermometer graduated in the 
centigrade scale. 

62. Interval between milking and plating. The examinations shall be made 
as soon after collection of the samples as possible, and in no case shall the 
interval between milking and plating the samples be longer than 40 hours. 

63. Plating. The packages shall be opened with aseptic precautions, after 
the milk has been thoroughly mixed by vigorously reversing and shaking the 
container 25 times. 



540 FOOD PRODUCTS 

64. Two plates at least shall be made for each sample of milk, and there 
shall also be made a control of each lot of medium and apparatus used at each 
testing. The plates shall be grown at 37° C. for 48 hours. 

65. In making the plates there shall be used agar-agar media containing 
1.5 per cent agar and giving a reaction of i.o to phenolphthalein.^ 

66. Samples of milk for plating shall be diluted in the proportion of i part 
of milk to 99 parts of sterile water; shake 25 times and plate i c. c. of the 
dilution.^ 

67. Determination of taste and odor of milk. After the plates have been 
prepared and placed in the incubator, the taste and odor of the milk shall be 
determined after warming the milk to 100° F.^ 

68. Counts. The total number of colonies on each plate should be 
counted, and the results expressed in multiples of the dilution factor. Colo- 
nies too small to be seen with the naked eye or with slight magnification shall 
not be considered in the count. 

69. Records of hacteriologic tests. The results of all bacterial tests shall be 
kept on file by the secretary of each commission, copies of which should be 
made available annually for the use of the American Association of Medical 
Milk Commissions. 

CHEMICAL STANDARDS AND METHODS 

The methods that must be followed in carrying out the chemical investi- 
gations essential to the protection of certified milk are so complicated that in 
order to keep the fees of the chemist at a reasonable figure, there must be 
eliminated from the examination those procedures which, whilst they might 
be helpful and interesting, are in no sense necessary. 

For this reason the determination of the water, the total solids, and the 
milk sugar is, not required as a part of the routine examination. 

70. The chemical analyses shall be made by a competent chemist desig- 
nated by the medical milk commission. 

71. Method of obtaining samples. The samples to be examined by the 
chemist shall have been examined previously by the bacteriologist desig- 
nated by the medical milk commission as to temperature, odor, taste, and 
bacterial content. 

72. Fat standards. The fat standard for certified milk shall be 4 per cent, 
with a permissible range of variation of from 3.5 to 4.5 per cent. 

1 Directions for laboratory work, included in the original report, are here omitted. 

2 Should it be deemed desirable and necessary to conduct tests for sediment, the 
presence of special bacteria, or the number of leucocytes, the methods adopted by the 
committee of the American Public Health Association should be followed. 



APPENDIX C 541 

73. The fat standard for certified cream shall be not less than 18 per 
cent. 

74. If it is desired to sell higher fat-percentage milks or creams as certified 
milks or creams, the range of variation for such milks shall be 0.5 per cent on 
either side of the advertised percentage and the range of variations for such 
creams shall be 2 per cent on either side of the advertised percentage. 

75. The fat content of certified milks and creams shall be determined at 
least once each month. 

76. The methods recommended for this purpose are the Babcock/ the 
Leffmann-Beam/ and the Gerber.^ 

77. Before condemning samples of milk which have fallen outside the 
limits allowed, the chemist shall have determined, by control ether extrac- 
tions, that his apparatus and his technique are reliable. 

78. Protein standard. The protein standard for certified milk shall be 
3.50 per cent, with a permissible range of variation of from 3 to 4 per cent. 

79. The protein standard for certified cream shall correspond to the pro- 
tein standard for certified milk. 

80. The protein content shall be determined only when any special con- 
sideration seems to the medical milk commission to make it desirable. 

81. It shall be determined by the Kjeldahl method, using the Gunning or 
some other reliable modification, and employing the factor 6.25 in reckoning 
the protein from the nitrogen. 

82. Coloring matter and preservatives. All certified milks and creams shall 
be free from adulteration, and coloring matter and preservatives shall not be 
added thereto. 

83. Tests for the detection of added coloring matter shall be applied 
whenever the color of the milk or cream is such as to arouse suspicion. 

84. Tests for the detection of formaldehyde, borax, and boracic acid shall 
be applied at least once each month. Occasionally application of tests for 
the detection of salicylic acid, benzoic acid, and the benzoates is also recom- 
mended. 

85. Detection of heated milk. Certified milk or cream shall not be sub- 
jected to heat unless specially directed by the commission to meet emer- 
gencies. 

86. Tests to determine whether such milks and creams have been sub- 
jected to heat shall be applied at least once each month. 

87. Specific gravity. The specific gravity of certified milk shall range 
from 1.029 to 1.034. 

88. The specific gravity shall be determined at least each month. 

^ Directions for laboratory work, included in the original report, are here omitted. 



542 FOOD PRODUCTS 

METHODS AND REGULATIONS FOR THE MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 
EMPLOYEES. THEIR HEALTH AND PERSONAL HYGIENE 

89. A medical officer, known as the attending dairy physician, shall be 
selected by the commission, who should reside near the dairy producing certi- 
fied milk. He shall be a physician in good standing and authorized by law 
to practice medicine ; he shall be responsible to the commission and subject to 
its direction. In case more than one dairy is under the control of the com- 
mission and they are in different localities, a separate physician should be 
designated for employment for the supervision of each dairy. 

90. Before any person shall come on the premises to live and remain as an 
employee, such person, before being engaged in milking or the handling of 
milk, shall be subjected to a complete physical examination by the attending 
physician. No person shall be employed who has not been vaccinated re- 
cently or who upon examination is found to have a sore throat, or to be suflfer- 
ing from any form of tuberculosis, venereal disease, conjunctivitis, diarrhea, 
dysentery, or who has recently had typhoid fever or is proved to be a typhoid 
carrier, or who has any inflammatory disease of the respiratory tract, or any 
suppurative process or infectious skin eruption, or any disease of an infectious 
or contagious nature, or who has recently been associated with children sick 
with contagious disease. 

91. In addition to ordinary habits of personal cleanliness all milkers shall 
have well-trimmed hair, wear close-fitting caps, and have clean-shaven faces. 

92. When the milkers live upon the premises their domitories shall be con- 
structed and operated according to plans approved by the commission. A 
separate bed shall be provided for each milker and each bed shall be kept sup- 
pHed with clean bedclothes. Proper bathing facilities shall be provided for 
all employees on the dairy premises, preferably a shower bath, and frequent 
bathing shall be enjoined. 

93. In case the employees live on the dairy premises a suitable building 
shall be provided to be used for the isolation and quarantine of persons under 
suspicion of having a contagious disease. 

The following plan of construction is recommended : 

The quarantine building and hospital should be one story high and contain 
at least two rooms, each with a capacity of about 6,000 cubic feet and con- 
taining not more than three beds each, the rooms to be separated by a closed 
partition. The doors opening into the rooms should be on opposite sides of 
the building and provided with locks. The windows should be barred and the 
sash should be at least 5 feet from the ground and constructed for proper 
ventilation. The walls should be of a material which will allow proper dis- 
infection. The floor should be of painted or washable wood, preferably of 
concrete, and so constructed that the floor may be flushed and properly dis- 



APPENDIX C 543 

infected. Proper heating, lighting, and ventilating facilities should be pro- 
vided. 

94. In the event of any illness of a suspicious nature the attending physi- 
cian shall immediately quarantine the suspect, notify the health authorities 
and the secretary of the commission, and examine each member of the dairy 
force, and in every inflammatory affection of the nose or throat occurring 
among the employees of the dairy, in addition to carrying out the above- 
mentioned program, the attending physician shall take a culture and have it 
examined at once by a competent bacteriologist approved by the commis- 
sion. Pending such examination, the affected employee or employees shall 
be quarantined. 

95. It shall be the duty of the secretary, on receiving notice of any sus- 
picious or contagious disease at the dairy, at once to notify the committee 
having in charge the medical supervision of employees of the dairy farm upon 
which such disease has developed. On receipt of the notice this committee 
shall assume charge of the matter, and shall have power to act for the com- 
mission as its judgment dictates. As soon as possible thereafter, the com- 
mittee shall notify the commission, through its secretary, that a special 
meeting may be called for ultimate consideration and action. 

96. When a case of contagious disease is found among the employees of a 
dairy producing certified milk under the control of a medical milk commis- 
sion, such employee shall be at once quarantined and as soon as possible 
removed from the plant, and the premises fumigated. 

When a case of contagion is found on a certified dairy it is advised that a 
printed notice of the facts shall be sent to every householder using the milk, 
giving in detail the precautions taken by the dairyman under the direction of 
the commission, and it is further advised that all milk produced at such dairy 
shall be heated at 145° F. for 40 minutes, or 155° F. for 30 minutes, or 167° F. 
for 20 minutes, and immediately cooled to 50° F. These facts should also be 
part of the notice, and such heating of the milk should be continued during 
the accepted period of incubation for such contagious disease. 

The following method of fumigation is recommended : 

After all windows and doors are closed and the cracks sealed by strips of 
paper applied with flour paste, and the various articles in the room so hung or 
placed as to be exposed on all sides, preparations should be made to generate 
formaldehyde gas by the use of 20 ounces of formaldehyde and 10 ounces of 
permanganate of potash for every 1,000 cubic feet of space to be disinfected. 

For mixing the formaldehyde and potassium permanganate a large gal- 
vanized-iron pail or cylinder holding at least 20 quarts and having a flared 
top should be used for mixing therein 20 ounces of formaldehyde and 10 
ounces of permanganate. A cylinder at least 5 feet high is suggested. The 
containers should be placed about in the rooms and the necessary quantity of 



544 FOOD PRODUCTS 

permanganate weighed and placed in them. The formaldehyde solution for 
each pail should then be measured into a wide-mouthed cup and placed by the 
pail in which it is to be used. 

Although the reaction takes place quickly, by making preparations as 
advised all of the pails can be " set off " promptly by one person, since there is 
nothing to do but pour the formaldehyde solution over the permanganate. 
The rooms should be kept closed for four hours. As there is a slight danger 
of fire, the reaction should be watched through a window or the pails placed 
on a noninflammable surface. 

97. Following a weekly medical inspection of the employees, a monthly 
report shall be submitted to the secretary of the medical milk commission, on 
the same recurring date by the examining visiting physician. 

The following schedule, filled out in writing and signed by himself, is 
recommended as a suitable form for the attending physician's report • 

This is to certify that, on the dates below indicated, official visits were 

made to the dairy, owned and conducted by of (indicating 

town and State), where careful inspections of the dairy employees were made. 

(a) Number and dates of visits since last report. . 

(b) Number of men employed on the plant. . 

(c) Has a recent epidemic of contagion occurred near the dairy, and what 
was its nature and extent ? . 

(d) Have any cases of contagious or infectious disease occurred among the 
men since the last report ? . 

(e) Disposition of such cases. . 

(/) What individual sickness has occurred among the men since the last 
report ? . 

(g) Disposition of such cases. . 

(h) Number of employees now quarantined for sickness. . 

{i) Describe the personal hygiene of the men employed for milking when 
prepared for and during the process of milking. . 

(./) What facilities are provided for sickness in employees ? . 

(k) General hygienic condition of the dormitories or houses of the em- 
ployees. . 

(/) Suggestions for improvement. . 

. (m) What is the hygienic condition of the employees and their surround- 
ings ? . 

(«) How many employees were examined at each of the foregoing visits ? 

(0) Remarks. 

Attending Physician. 
Date, . 



APPENDIX D 

FEDERAL MEAT INSPECTION 

THE MEAT-INSPECTION LAW 

[Extract from an act of Congress entitled " An act making 
appropriations for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal 
year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and seven," 
approved June 30, 1906 (34 Stat., 674).] 

That for the purpose of preventing the use in interstate or foreign com- 
merce, as hereinafter provided, of meat and meat food products which are 
unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise unfit for human food, the 
Secretary of Agriculture, at his discretion, may cause to be made, by inspec- 
tors appointed for that purpose, an examination and inspection of all cattle, 
sheep, swine, and goats before they shall be allowed to enter into any slaugh- 
tering, packing, meat-canning, rendering, or similar estabUshment, in which 
they are to be slaughtered and the meat and meat food products thereof are 
to be used in interstate or foreign commerce ; and all cattle, swine, sheep, and 
goats found on such inspection to show symptoms of disease shall be set 
apart and slaughtered separately from all other cattle, sheep, swine, or goats, 
and when so slaughtered the carcasses of said cattle, sheep, swine, or goats 
shall be subject to a careful examination and inspection, all as provided by 
the rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture as 
herein provided for. 

That for the purposes hereinbefore set forth the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall cause to be made by inspectors appointed for that purpose, as herein- 
after provided, a post-mortem examination and inspection of the carcasses 
and parts thereof of all cattle, sheep, swine, and goats to be prepared for 
human consumption at any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing 
rendering, or similar establishment in any State, Territory, or the District of 
Columbia for transportation or sale as articles of interstate or foreign com- 
merce ; and the carcasses and parts thereof of all such animals found to be 
2N 545 



546 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



sound, healthful, wholesome, and fit for human food shall be marked, 
stamped, tagged, or labeled as ''Inspected and Passed;" and said inspectors 
shall label, mark, stamp, or tag as "Inspected and Condemned," all carcasses 
and parts thereof of animals found to be unsound, unhealthf ul, unwholesome, 
or otherwise unfit for human food ; and all carcasses and parts thereof thus 
inspected and condemned shall be destroyed for food purposes by the said 
establishment in the presence of an inspector, and the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture may remove inspectors from any such establishment which fails to so 
destroy any such condemned carcass or part thereof, and said inspectors, 
after said first inspection shall, when they deem it necessary, reinspect said 
carcasses or parts thereof to determine whether since the first inspection the 
same have become unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or in any way unfit 
for human food, and if any carcass or any part thereof shall, upon examina- 
•tion and inspection subsequent to the first examination and inspection, be 
found to be unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise unfit for human 
food, it shall be destroyed for food purposes by the said establishment in the 
presence of an inspector, and the Secretary of Agriculture may remove in- 
spectors from any establishment which fails to so destroy any such con- 
demned carcass or part thereof. 

The foregoing provisions shall apply to all carcasses or parts of carcasses 
of cattle, sheep, swine, and goats, or the meat or meat products thereof 
which may be brought into any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, 
packing, rendering, or similar establishment, and such examination and 
inspection shall be had before the said carcasses or parts thereof shall be 
allowed to enter into any department wherein the same are to be treated 
and prepared for meat food products ; and the foregoing provisions shall 
also apply to all such products which, after having been issued from any 
slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establish- 
ment, shall be returned to the same or to any similar establishment where 
such inspection is maintained. 

That for the purposes hereinbefore set forth the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall cause to be made by inspectors appointed for that purpose an examina- 
tion and inspection of all meat food products prepared for interstate or for- 
eign commerce in any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing, render- 
ing, or similar establishment, and for the purposes of any examination and 
inspection said inspectors shall have access at all times, by day or night, 
whether the establishment be operated or not, to every part of said establish- 
ment ; and said inspectors shall mark, stamp, tag, or label as " Inspected and 
Passed" all such products found to be sound, healthful, and wholesome, and 
which contain no dyes, chemicals, preservatives, or ingredients which render 
such meat or meat food products unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or 



APPENDIX D 547 

unfit for human food ; and said inspectors shall label, mark, stamp, or tag as 
"Inspected and Condemned" all such products found unsound, unhealthful, 
and unwholesome, or which contain dyes, chemicals, preservatives, or ingredi- 
ents which render such meat or meat food products unsound, unhealthful, 
unwholesome, or unfit for human food, and all such condemned meat food 
products shall be destroyed for food purposes, as hereinbefore provided, and 
the Secretary of Agriculture may remove inspectors from any establishment 
which fails to so destroy such condemned meat food products : Provided^ 
That, subject to the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
provisions hereof in regard to preservatives shall not apply to meat food prod- 
ucts for export to any foreign country and which are prepared or packed 
according to the specifications or directions of the foreign purchaser, when no 
substance is used in the preparation or packing thereof in conflict with the 
laws of the foreign country to which said article is to be exported ; but if said 
article shall be in fact sold or offered for sale for domestic use or consump- 
tion, then this proviso shall not exempt said article from the operation of all 
the other provisions of this act. 

That when any meat or meat food product prepared for interstate or 
foreign commerce which has been inspected as hereinbefore provided and 
marked "Inspected and Passed" shall be placed or packed in any can, pot, 
tin, canvas, or other receptacle or covering in any establishment where in- 
spection under the provisions of this act is maintained, the person, firm, or 
corporation preparing said product shall cause a label to be attached to said 
can, pot, tin, canvas, or other receptacle or covering, under the supervision 
of an inspector, which label shall state that the contents thereof have been 
"Inspected and Passed" under the provisions of this act ; and no inspection 
and examination of meat or meat food products deposited or inclosed in 
cans, tins, pots, canvas, or other receptacle or covering in any establishment 
where inspection under the provisions of this act is maintained shall be 
deemed to be complete until such meat or meat food products have been 
sealed or inclosed in said can, tin, pot, canvas, or other receptacle or covering 
under the supervision of an inspector, and no such meat or meat food prod- 
ucts shall be sold or offered for sale by any person, firm, or corporation in 
interstate or foreign commerce under any false or deceptive name; but 
established trade name or names which are usual to such products and which 
are not false and deceptive and which shall be approved by the Secretary of 
Agriculture are permitted. 

The Secretary of Agriculture shall cause to be made, by experts in sanita- 
tion or by other competent inspectors, such inspection of all slaughtering, 
meat-canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishments in which 
cattle, sheep, swine, and goats are slaughtered and the meat and meat food 



548 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



products thereof are prepared for interstate or foreign commerce as may be 
necessary to inform himself concerning the sanitary conditions of the same, 
and to prescribe the rules and regulations of sanitation under which such 
establishments shall be maintained ; and where the sanitary conditions of 
any such establishment are such that the meat or meat food products 
are rendered unclean, unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise 
unfit for human food, he shall refuse to allow said meat or meat food 
products to be labeled, marked, stamped, or tagged as "Inspected and 
Passed." 

That the Secretary of Agriculture shall cause an examination and inspec- 
tion of all cattle, sheep, swine, and goats, and the food products thereof, 
slaughtered and prepared in the establishments hereinbefore described for 
the purposes of interstate or foreign commerce to be made during the night- 
time as well as during the daytime when the slaughtering of said cattle, sheep, 
swine, and goats, or the preparation of said food products is conducted during 
the night time. 

That on and after October first, nineteen hundred and six, no person, 
firm, or corporation shall transport or offer for transportation, and no carrier 
of interstate or foreign commerce shall transport or receive for transportation 
from one State or Territory or the District of Columbia to any other State or 
Territory of the District of Columbia, or to any place under the jurisdiction 
of the United States, or to any foreign country, any carcasses or parts thereof, 
meat, or meat food products thereof which have not been inspected, exam- 
ined, and marked as "Inspected and Passed," in accordance with the terms 
of this act and with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Agriculture: Provided, That all meat and meat food products on .hand on 
October first, nineteen hundred and six, at establishments where inspection 
has not been maintained, or which have been inspected under existing law, 
shall be examined and labeled under such rules and regulations as the Secre- 
tary of Agriculture shall prescribe, and then shall be allowed to be sold in 
interstate or foreign commerce. 

That no person, firm, or corporation, or officer, agent, or employee thereof 
shall forge, counterfeit, simulate, or falsely represent, or shall without proper 
authority use, fail to use, or detach, or shall knowingly or wrongfully alter, 
deface, or destroy, or fail to deface or destroy, any of the marks, stamps, tags, 
labels , or other identification devices provided for in this act, or in and as 
directed by the rules and regulations prescribed hereunder by the Secretary 
of Agriculture, on any carcasses, parts of carcasses, or the food product, or 
containers thereof, subject to the provisions of this act, or any certificate in 
relation thereto, authorized or required by this act or by the said rules and 
regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture. 



APPENDIX D 549 

That the Secretar> of Agriculture shall cause to be made a careful inspec- 
tion of all cattle, sheep, swine, and goats intended and offered for export to 
foreign countries at such times and places, and in such manner as he may 
deem proper, to ascertain whether such cattle, sheep, swine, and goats are 
free from disease. 

And for this purpose he may appoint inspectors who shall be authorized 
to give an official certificate clearly stating the condition in which such cattle, 
sheep, swine, and goats are found. 

And no clearance shall be given to any vessel having on board cattle, sheep, 
swine, or goats for export to a foreign country until the owner or shipper of 
such cattle, sheep, swine, or goats has a certificate from the inspector herein 
authorized to be appointed, stating that the said cattle, sheep, swine, or goats 
are sound and healthy, or unless the Secretary of Agriculture shall have 
waived the requirement of such certificate for export to the particular country 
to which such cattle, sheep, swine, or goats are to be exported. 

That the Secretary of Agriculture shall also cause to be made a careful 
inspection of the carcasses and parts thereof of all cattle, sheep, swine, and 
goats, the meat of which, fresh, salted, canned, corned, packed, cured, or 
otherwise prepared, is intended and offered for export to any foreign country, 
at such times and places and in such manner as he may deem proper. 

And for this purpose he may appoint inspectors who shall be authorized 
to give an official certificate stating the condition in which said cattle, sheep, 
swine, or goats, and the meat thereof, are found. 

And no clearance shall be given to any vessel having on board any fresh, 
salted, canned, corned, or packed beef, mutton, pork, or goat meat, being 
the meat of animals killed after the passage of this act, or except as herein- 
before provided for export to and sale in a foreign country from any port in 
the United States, until the owner or shipper thereof shall obtain from an 
inspector appointed under the provisions of this act a certificate that the said 
cattle, sheep , swine, and goats were sound and healthy at the time of inspection, 
and that their meat is sound and wholesome, unless the Secretary of Agri- 
culture shall have waived the requirements of such certificate for the country 
to which said cattle, sheep, swine, and goats or meats are to be exported. 

That the inspectors provided for herein shall be authorized to give official 
certificates of the sound and wholesome condition of the cattle, sheep, swine, 
and goats, their carcasses and products as herein described, and one copy of 
every certificate granted under the provisions of this act shall be filed in the 
Department of Agriculture, another copy shall be delivered to the owner or 
shipper, and when the cattle, sheep, swine, and goats or their carcasses and 
products are sent abroad, a third copy shall be delivered to the chief officer of 
the vessel on which the shipment shall be made. 



550 FOOD PRODUCTS 

That no person, firm, or corporation engaged in the interstate commerce 
of meat or meat food products shall transport or offer for transportation, sell 
or offer to sell any such meat or meat food products in any State or Territory 
or in the District of Columbia or any place under the jurisdiction of the 
United States, other than in the State or Territory or in the District of Colum- 
bia or any place under the jurisdiction of the United States in which the 
slaughtering, packing, canning, rendering, or other similar establishment 
owned, leased, operated by said firm, person, or corporation is located unless 
and until said person, firm, or corporation shall have complied with all of the 
provisions of this act. 

That any person, firm, or corporation, or any officer or agent of any such 
person, firm, or corporation, who shall violate any of the provisions of this 
act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished on con- 
viction thereof by a fine of not exceeding ten thousand dollars or imprison- 
ment for a period not more than two years or by both such fine and imprison- 
ment, in the discretion of the court. 

That the Secretary of Agriculture shall appoint from time to time inspec- 
tors to make examination and inspection of all cattle, sheep, swine, and goats, 
the inspection of which is hereby provided for, and of all carcasses and parts 
thereof, and of all meats and meat food products thereof, and of the sanitary 
conditions of all establishments in which such meat and meat food products 
hereinbefore described are prepared; and said inspectors shall refuse to 
stamp, mark, tag, or label any carcass or any part thereof, or meat food prod- 
uct therefrom, prepared in any establishment hereinbefore mentioned, 
until the same shall have actually been inspected and found to be sound, 
healthful, wholesome, and fit for human food, and to contain no dyes, chemi- 
cals, preservatives, or ingredients which render such meat food product un- 
sound, unhealthf ul, unwholesome, or unfit for human food ; and to have been 
prepared under proper sanitary conditions, hereinbefore provided for ; and 
shall perform such other duties as are provided by this act and by the rules 
and regulations to be prescribed by said Secretary of Agriculture ; and said 
Secretary of Agriculture shall, from time to time, make such rules and regu- 
lations as are necessary for the efficient execution of the provisions of this 
act, and all inspections and examinations made under this act shall be 
such and made in such manner as described in the rules and regulations 
prescribed by said Secretary of Agriculture not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this act. 

That any person, firm, or corporation, or any agent or employee of any 
person, firm, or corporation, who shall give, pay, or offer, directly or indirectly, 
to any inspector, deputy inspector, chief inspector, or any other officer or 
employee of the United States authorized to perform any of the duties pre- 



APPENDIX D 551 

scribed by this act or by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture any money or other thing of value, with intent to influence said inspector, 
deputy inspector, chief inspector, or other officer or employee of the United 
States in the discharge of any duty herein provided for, shall be deemed 
guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not 
less than five thousand dollars nor more than ten thousand dollars and by 
imprisonment not less than one year nor more than three years; and any 
inspector, deputy inspector, chief inspector, or other officer or employee of the 
United States authorized to perform any of the duties prescribed by this act 
who shall accept any money, gift, or other thing of value from any person, 
firm, or corporation, or officers, agents, or employees thereof, given with 
intent to influence his official action, or who shall receive or accept from any 
person, firm, or corporation engaged in interstate or foreign commerce any 
gift, money, or other thing of value given with any purpose or intent whatso- 
• ever, shall be deemed guilty of a felony and shall, upon conviction thereof, 
be summarily discharged from office and shall be punished by a fine not less 
than one thousand dollars nor more than ten thousand dollars and by im- 
prisonment not less than one year nor more than three years. 

That the provisions of this act requiring inspection to be made by the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall not apply to animals slaughtered by any 
farmer on the farm and sold and transported as interstate or foreign com- 
merce, nor to retail butchers and retail dealers in meat and meat food prod- 
ucts, supplying their customers : Provided, That if any person shall sell or 
offer for sale or transportation for interstate or foreign commerce any meat 
or meat food products which are diseased, unsound, unhealthful, unwhole- 
some, or otherwise unfit for human food, knowing that such meat food prod- 
ucts are intended for human consumption, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, 
and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thou- 
sand dollars or by imprisonment for a period of not exceeding one year, or by 
both such fine and imprisonment : Provided also, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture is authorized to maintain the inspection in this act provided for 
at any slaughtering, meat canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar 
establishment notwithstanding this exception, and that the persons operat- 
ing the same may be retail butchers and retail dealers or farmers ; and where 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall establish such inspection then the pro- 
visions of this act shall apply notwithstanding this exception. 

That there is permanently appropriated, out of any money in the Treas- 
ury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of three million dollars, for the 
expenses of the inspection of cattle, sheep, swine, and goats and the meat and 
meat food products thereof which enter into interstate or foreign commerce 
and for all expenses necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this act 



552 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



relating to meat inspection, including rent and the employment of labor in 
Washington and elsewhere, for each year. And the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall, in his annual estimates made to Congress, submit a statement in detail, 
showing the number of persons employed in such inspections and the salary 
or per diem paid to each, together with the contingent expenses of such 
inspectors and where they have been and are employed. 



EXTRACTS FROM MEAT INSPECTION REGULATIONS 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 

BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY 

Order 211 

[Effective November i, 1914.] 



Regulation 8. Sanitation 

Section i. Prior to the inauguration of inspection, an 
examination of the establishment and premises shall be made 
by a bureau ^ employee and the requirements for sanitation and 
the necessary facilities for inspection specified. 

Section 2. Triplicate copies of plans, properly drawn to 
scale, and of specifications, including plumbing and drainage, 
for remodeling plants of official establishments and for new 
structures, shall be submitted to the chief of bureau in advance 
of construction. 

Section 3. Paragraph i. Official establishments, establish- 
ments at which market inspection is conducted, and premises 
on or in which any meat or product is prepared or handled by or 
for persons to whom certificates of exemption have been issued, 
shall be maintained in sanitary condition, and to this end the 
requirements of paragraphs 2 to 8, inclusive, of this section shall 
be complied with. 

1 Throughout the regulations the word bureau is used to designate the Bureau 
of Animal Industry. 



APPENDIX D 553 

Paragraph 2. There shall be abundant light, both natural and 
artificial, and sufficient ventilation for all rooms and compart- 
ments, to insure sanitary condition. 

Paragraph j. There shall be an efficient drainage and plumb- 
ing system for the establishment and premises, and all drains 
and gutters shall be properly installed with approved traps and 
vents. 

Paragraph 4. The water supply shall be ample, clean, and 
potable, with adequate facilities for its distribution in the 
plant. Every establishment shall make known, and whenever 
required shall afford opportunity for inspection of, the source 
of its water supply and the location and character of its reser- 
voir and storage tanks. 

Paragraph j. The floors, walls, ceilings, partitions, posts, 
doors, and other parts of all structures shall be of such mate- 
rials, construction, and finish as will make them susceptible of 
being readily and thoroughly cleaned. The floors shall be kept 
water-tight. The rooms and compartments used for edible 
products shall be separate and distinct from those used for 
inedible products. 

Paragraph 6. The rooms and compartments in which any 
meat or product is prepared or handled shall be free from odors 
from dressing and toilet rooms, catch basins, hide cellars, casing 
rooms, inedible tank and fertilizer rooms, and stables. 

Paragraph 7. Every practicable precaution shall be taken 
to keep establishments free of flies, rats, mice, and other vermin. 
The use of rat poisons is prohibited in rooms or compartments 
where any unpacked meat or product is stored or handled; 
but their use is not forbidden in hide cellars, inedible compart- 
ments, outbuildings, or similar places, or in storerooms contain- 
ing canned or tierced products. So-called rat viruses shall not 
be used in any part of an establishment or the premises thereof. 

Paragraph 8. Dogs shall not be admitted into official estab- 
lishments except, upon permission of the inspector in charge, for 



554 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



the purpose of destroying rats. Dogs which are admitted shall 
be kept free from tapeworm infestation. Such examinations 
shall be made to determine freedom from infestation as the chief 
of bureau may prescribe. Contamination by the excreta of 
these animals shall not be permitted, nor shall the dogs be al- 
lowed to eat the raw viscera of cattle, sheep, swine, or goats. 

Section 4. Adequate sanitary facilities and accommodations 
shall be furnished by every official establishment. Of these 
the following are specifically required: 

(a) Dressing rooms, toilet rooms, and urinals, sufficient in 
number, ample in size, conveniently located, properly ventilated, 
and meeting all requirements as to sanitary construction and 
equipment. These shall be separate from the rooms and 
compartments in which meat and products are prepared, stored, 
or handled. Where both sexes are employed, separate facilities 
shall be provided. 

(b) Modern lavatory accommodations, including running hot 
and cold water, soap, towels, etc. These shall be placed in or 
near toilet and urinal rooms and also at such other places in the 
establishment as may be essential to assure cleanliness of all 
persons handling any meat or product. 

(c) Properly located facilities for disinfecting and cleansing 
utensils and hands of all persons handling any meat or product. 

(d) Cuspidors of such shape as not readily to be upset and of 
such material as to be readily disinfected. They shall be suffi- 
cient in number and accessibly placed in all rooms and places 
designated by the inspector in charge, and all persons who 
expectorate shall be required to use them. 

Section 5. Equipment and utensils used for preparing, proc- 
essing, and otherwise handling any meat or product shall be of 
such materials and construction as will make them susceptible 
of being readily and thoroughly cleaned and such as will insure 
strict cleanHness in the preparation and handling of all meat 
and products. Trucks and receptacles used for inedible prod- 



APPENDIX D 555 

ucts shall bear some conspicuous and distinctive mark and 
shall not be used for handling edible products. 

Section 6. Rooms, compartments, places, equipment, and 
utensils used for preparing, storing, or otherwise handling any 
meat or product, and all other parts of the establishment, shall 
be kept clean and sanitary. 

Section 7. Paragraph i. Operations and procedures involv- 
ing the preparation, storing, or handling of any meat or product 
shall be strictly in accord with cleanly and sanitary methods. 

Paragraph 2. Rooms and compartments in which inspections 
are made and those in which animals are slaughtered or any 
meat or product is processed or prepared shall be kept sufficiently 
free of steam and vapors to enable bureau employees to make 
inspections and to insure cleanly operations. The walls and 
ceilings of rooms and compartments under refrigeration shall 
be kept reasonably free from moisture. 

Paragraph 3. Butchers and others who dress or handle 
diseased carcasses or parts shall, before handling or dressing 
other carcasses or parts, cleanse their hands of grease, immerse 
them in a prescribed disinfectant, and rinse them in clean water. 
Implements used in dressing diseased carcasses shall be thor- 
oughly cleansed in boiling water or in a prescribed disinfectant, 
followed by rinsing in clean water. The employees of the 
establishment who handle any meat or product shall keep their 
hands clean, and in all cases after visiting the toilet rooms or 
urinals shall wash their hands before handling any meat or 
product or implements used in the preparation of the 
same. 

Paragraph 4. Aprons, frocks, and other outer clothing worn 
by persons who handle any meat or product shall be of material 
that is readily cleansed, and only clean garments shall be worn. 
Knife scabbards shall be kept clean. 

Paragraph 5. Such practices as spitting on whetstones, 
placing skewers or knives in the mouth, inflating lungs or cas- 



556 FOOD PRODUCTS 

ings, or testing with air from the mouth such receptacles as 
tierces, kegs, casks, and the like, containing or intended as 
containers of any meat or product, are prohibited. Only me- 
chanical means may be used for testing. 

Section 8. The wagons and cars in which any meat or prod- 
uct is transported shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condi- 
tion. Wagons used in transferring loose meat and products 
between official establishments shall be closed or so covered that 
the contents shall be kept clean. 

Section 9. Paragraph i. Second-hand tubs, barrels, and 
boxes intended for use as containers of any meat or product 
shall be inspected when received at the estabUshment and be- 
fore they are cleaned. Those showing evidence of misuse ren- 
dering them unfit to serve as containers for food products shall 
be rejected. The use of those showing no evidence of previous 
misuse may be allowed after they have been thoroughly and 
properly cleaned. Steaming, after thorough scrubbing and 
rinsing, is essential to cleaning tubs and barrels. 

Paragraph 2. Interiors of tank cars about to be used for the 
transportation of any meat food product shall be carefully 
inspected for cleanliness even though the last previous content 
was edible. Lye and soda solutions used in cleaning must be 
thoroughly removed by rinsing with clean water. In their 
examinations bureau employees shall enter the tank with a light 
and examine all parts of the interior. 

Section 10. The outer premises of every official establish- 
ment, embracing docks and areas where cars and wagons are 
loaded, and the driveways, approaches, yards, pens, and alleys, 
shall be properly drained and kept in clean and orderly con- 
dition. All catch basins on the premises shall be of such con- 
struction and location and be given such attention as will insure 
their being kept in acceptable condition as regards odors and 
cleanHness. The accumulation on the premises of estabUsh- 
ments of any material in which flies may breed, such as hog hair, 



( 



APPENDIX D 557 

bones, paunch contents, or manure, is forbidden. No nuisance 
shall be allowed in any establishment or on its premises. 

Section ii. No establishment shall employ in any depart- 
ment where any meat or product is handled or prepared any 
person affected with tuberculosis or other communicable disease. 

Section 12. When necessary, bureau employees shall attach 
a "U. S. rejected" tag to any equipment or utensil which is 
insanitary, or the use of which would be in violation of these 
regulations. No equipment or utensil so tagged shall again 
be used until made sanitary. Such tag so placed shall not be 
removed by any one other than a bureau employee. 

Regtilation 9. Ante-mortem Inspection 

Section i. Paragraph i. An ante-mortem examination and 
inspection shall be made of all cattle, sheep, swine, and goats 
about to be slaughtered in an official establishment before their 
slaughter shall be allowed. 



Section 2. Paragraph i. All animals plainly showing on 
ante-mortem inspection any disease or condition that under 
these regulations would cause condemnation of their carcasses 
on post-mortem inspection shall be marked "U. S. condemned" 
and disposed of in accordance with section 8 of this regulation. 

Section 3. All animals required by these regulations to be 
treated as suspects, or to be marked as suspects, or to be marked 
so as to retain their identity as suspects, shall be marked by or 
under the supervision of a bureau employee, ''U. S. suspect," 
or with such other distinctive mark or marks to indicate that 
they are suspects as the chief of bureau may adopt. No such 
mark shall be removed except by a bureau employee. 



^^8 FOOD PRODUCTS 

Sections. Animals marked "U. S. condemned" shall be 
killed by the estabHshment, if not already dead, and shall not 
be taken into an estabHshment to be slaughtered or dressed, 
nor shall they be conveyed into any department of the estabHsh- 
ment used for edible products, but they shah be disposed of and 
tanked in the manner provided for condemned carcasses. . . . 



Regulation lo. Post-mortem Inspection 

Section i. A careful post-mortem examination and inspec- 
tion shall be made of the carcasses and parts thereof of all cattle, 
sheep, swine, and goats slaughtered at official establishments. 
******* 

Section 3. Paragraph i. Each carcass, including all parts 
and detached organs thereof, in which any lesion of disease or 
other condition is found that might render the meat or any 
organ unfit for food purposes, and which for that reason would 
require a subsequent inspection, shall be retained by the bureau 
employee at the time of inspection and taken to the place desig- 
nated for final inspection. 

*:;:***** 

Section 4. Each carcass or part which is found on final in- 
spection to be unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise 
unfit for human food shall be conspicuously marked on the 
surface tissues thereof by a bureau employee at the time of 
inspection "U. S. inspected and condemned." Condemned 
detached organs and parts of such character that they cannot 
be so marked shaU be immediately placed in trucks or recep- 
tacles which shah be kept plainly marked ''U. S. inspected and 
condemned " in letters not less than 2 inches high. AH con- 
demned carcasses, parts, and organs shall remain in the custody 
of a bureau employee and shall be tanked as required in these 



APPENDIX D 559 

regulations at or before the close of the day on which they are 
condemned, or be locked in the "U. S. condemned" room or 
compartment. Condemned articles shall not be allowed to 
accumulate unnecessarily in the condemned room or compart- 
ment. 

Section 5. Paragraph i. Carcasses and parts passed for 
sterilization shall be conspicuously marked on the surface tissues 
thereof by a bureau employee at the time of inspection "Passed 
for sterilization." All such carcasses and parts shall be steri- 
lized in accordance with regulation 15 and until so sterilized 
shall remain in the custody of a bureau employee. 

Paragraph 2. In all cases where carcasses showing localized 

lesions of disease are passed for food or for sterilization the 

diseased parts shall be removed before the "U. S. retained" tag 

is taken from the carcass, and such parts shall be condemned. 

******* 

Regulation 15. Rendering Carcasses and Parts into Lard and Tallow, and 
Other Sterilization 

Section i. Carcasses and parts passed for steriUzation may 
be rendered into lard or tallow provided that such rendering is 
done in the following manner : The lower opening of the tank 
shall first be securely sealed by a bureau employee, then the 
carcasses or parts shall be placed in the tank in his presence, 
after which the upper opening shall be securely sealed by such 
employee, who shall then see that a sufficient force of steam is 
turned into the tank. Such carcasses and parts shall be cooked 
at a temperature not lower than 220° F. for a time sufficient to 
render them effectually into lard or tallow. 

Section 2. Establishments not equipped with steaming 
tanks for rendering carcasses and parts into lard or tallow as 
provided in section i of this regulation may render such car- 
casses or parts in open kettles under the direct supervision of a 
bureau employee. Such rendering shall be done at a temper- 



560 FOOD PRODUCTS 

ature and for a time sufl&cient to render the carcasses and parts 
effectually into lard or tallow, and shall be done only during 
regular hours of work. 

Section 3. Paragraph i. Carcasses and parts passed for 
sterilization and which are not rendered into lard or tallow may 
be utilized for food purposes provided they are first sterilized 
by methods, and handled and marked in a manner approved by 
the chief of bureau. 

Paragraph 2. Any carcasses or parts prepared in com- 
phance with paragraph i of this section may be canned if 
the container be plainly and conspicuously marked so as to 
show that the product is second grade, class, or quaUty and 
has been steriUzed. 



APPENDIX E 

TABLE OF loo-CALORIE PORTIONS 

Explanation or Table. — The first column of figures in the 
table gives the number of i co-Calorie portions in one pound of 
the food as purchased. The next four columns show the weight 
of food which yields loo Calories, i.e. the weight of the loo- 
Calorie portion, both in ounces and in grams, and both for the 
material as purchased and for the edible portion. Next follow 
columns showing the amounts of protein (in Calories and in 
grams) and the amounts of calcium, calculated as CaO, phos- 
phorus, calculated as P2O5, and iron, calculated as Fe, in the 100- 
Calorie portion. Finally there is given the balance of acid- 
forming and base-forming elements contained in the loo-Calorie 
portion, expressed as excess of acid or of base and stated in 
terms of the units explained on pages 352 and 353. 

It is estimated that meats contain 0.00075 gram of CaO, 
0.023 gram P2O5, 0.00015 gram Fe, and yield 0.5 unit of excess 
acid for every gram of protein; and that fish contain 0.0015 
gram CaO, 0.025 gram P2O5, 0.00004 gram Fe, and yield 0.5 
unit of excess acid for every gram of protein. These estimates 
have been used in calculating the figures given for the different 
cuts of meat and for the different kinds of fish. 



20 561 



562 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



& 


V 




00 










VO 




VO 


, , 








»o 




VO »o 


o 


c4 


M 


VO 




M 




CO 




u-> 




VO 


<N 


c>< 


M 


CO 


CO CS M 


^ 


PQ 








M 














*-* 


" 


'-' 




M 


n 


T3 














00 




O 














X 


-^ 














o 




M 


































o 




VO 


VO 










G 


fO 


lO 


lO 






CO 


<s 


v3 


coo 


(> 


Ov 


OV 


o 


00 


00 




o 




8 








Tf 
















CO 


CO 




^ 


^ 






8 


^ 


°- 


B q 


8 


8 


8 


8 


8 


8 




r?S 
















VO 


t^ ITi VO 


Ov 


Ov 


M 


r^ 


^ 




SI 


M 


liO 


IJO 


o 


O 


O 


^ 


lO 


C< VO 


<N 


M 


M 


CV| 


00 


oo t^ t^ 


§ 


q 


q 




M 


CO 


q 


q 


M CS 


CO 




CVJ 


Cv» 


(N 


CS CO CO 


g 




















^ 














1 


§1 


VO 


(N 


(N 


y_, 


^ 




i_i 




t~^ IH 


CO 00 


00 


CO 


t^ 


t^ 


^ 


fS 




CO 


CO 


f>- 


o 


M 


O lO VO 


o< 


CN 


c^ 


1^ 


r>. lo VO 


q 


q 


q 


q 


q 




q 


q 


q q 


q 


q 


q 


q 


• 


M q q 






i 


<N 


lO 


lO 


o 


o 


o 


r^ 1^ 


<N 


t^ o 


CV» 


o 


r^ 


o 


o 


VO M C^ 






<N 


vO 


o 


o 


o 


H 


TtO 


CO 


CO CO 


VO 






00 


CO 


VOOO 00 






CO 






M 


IH 


00 


■* H 


M 


c^ VO VO 


VO 


VO 


»o 


VO 


VO lO M 






o 






























H 




.« 


0^'0 


MD 


VO 


o 


'^ 


0\ t^ 


CO 


lO lO 


IH 


00 


i^ 


<N 


»o 


c^ CO CO 






o 


cs 


CN 


fS 


t^ 


t^ 


(N 


t^ \0 


lO 


O H 


vn 


o 


o 


CO 


l_l 


CS CO f^ 






cJ 


M 










CO 






CS 




r* 


C-) 




<N 


CS (N Tt 






u 
































2; 


uopjod 


xr> 


C> 


■>+ 


tN 


vO 


O 


coo 


M 


00 00 


On 


O 


Ov 


<N 


00 


M CO Ov 




M 


lO 


fO 


1^ 


CO 




M H 


o 


c< r>. 


C^ 


CO 


CV) 


00 


00 


■"4-00 <N 


Ha 


siqipa 




M 




H 




■^ 


C^ 


M 






M 






■^ 


CS 


K < 




































































SO 


-jnd sy 


00 


N 


■* 


Tt <5 


O 


CO t^O 


00 00 


O 


o 


O 


o« 


00 


On CO Ov 




H 


CO 00 


CO 


lO 


M M 


lO 


CS t^ 




OO 


C>) 


00 


00 


VOOO <N 




M 




" 




T}- 


<N 


M 










M 


"^l- 


<N 




uonjod 


Ti- 


M 


M 


00 


t^ 


0\0 vO 


00 


Ov VO 


M 


On 


c* 


00 


o 


O CO N 


^a 


ii-}vO 


Ol 


o 


cs 


00 


Tt lO 


lO 


Ov t- 


o 


VO 


O 


00 


H 


VO On O 


3iqipa 




lO 


M 


vO 


M 


lO 


t^ 


CO 


O M 


M 


^ 


M 


c» 


t^od C^ H 1 
















*^ 
















•^ 






Ov 


Ov 


M 


00 


J^ 


OvO 0^ 


c^ 


On VO 


(N 


Ov 


C^ 


o 


o 


M CO CS 


pasBqo 


ON 


''I- 


c< 


■* 


M 


00 


Tl-VO 


lO 


Ov t^ 


o 


VO 


O 


■^ 




H OV O 


-and sy 




t^ 


M 


<i 


H 




t^ 


VO 


O c< 


M 


"t 


H 


VO 


t>. 


On CS H 


ig5 

P2 




M 


H 


CO 




H 


C^' CO 


o 

cq 


<N 00 
VO VO 


VO 


VO 

CO 


Ov 

VO 


VO 


? 


t>. Tl- CO 
H VO CS 


f^HS 


M 




M 




M 




<N 






M 










H 









<< 



3 -a 

bo o 



<u 



c:3 



S ^"^ 2 

en m *-^ Xi ^ 

o 5 ii c -p B 

« m pq m 



i.1 



hr'^ S^ St» 



-o >ii-S ^ 



13 -d 



APPENDIX E 



563 



(N c^N cNoo ioior^fO»ood Ttovr^t-'-iovo ■^(rj'jfiotOM roo d 10 



CO OOvOOOOroOOOON 
0>-iOO<nmih(nOm<nm 

8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 



Tt 


rj- t^ 


(N 










c^ 


CS CO 


VO 





CO 





<N 


(N 


M CS 




CN 


M 


M 


M 


8 


^8 


8 


8 


8 


8 


8 



l-^O vo o o 

M M O M C< 



COVO O l^CNOO lO'^ 

M t^CS MOO VOCOIO 
HHMHCO^»C^<0 



00 t^M fO-<^T^lOCS 

cot^OO to-^O coo O 
<N COM Tj-roco<N CO<N 



x/- 


VO 


10 


C^ 








CO 


■^ 


u- 


00 


\o 


•* 


^ 






VO 


M 




<N 







CO 


■^ 



rl- -^ <N 00 00 
O O M O O 
00000 



tOOO <N O 10 M <N 00 O 
OOwOhmmOm 
000000000 



t~-. vo vo t^ < 



CO N O »0( 

O VO M M 

0000 



)0 f^ <^ t^tof^iot^ 
vOC^00M<Nt^^--0 
•rft^irjvovd M d 100 dood ONrfiod cooOMDod M 



VO t^OvrJ-vooOOOvoO O 



t^O Tj-t^cot^O M O 
loclod ONCod COlOt^ 
O cot^^O^O rl-voco<N 



COH 00 lOlOt^Tt 

<N>o oi lot^T^d d 

CO't-'tM «N >O00 ■* 



^ 


vn 


■<+ 


<N 


\n 


Tf 


Tf 





10 





to 











00 


c^ 


C^ 


^ 


CO 


1^ 


l^ 


Tt 


ON 


rf 


1^ 





CO 


Tf 


rO 


CO 


»o 


ro 


10 


t-^ 


CO 


10 


t^ 


^ 


^ 


ON 


!>. 


10 VO 


^ 


CO 


10 


10 


<N 


c< 


vO 


00 


•* 





00 


t^ \0 





10 


CIS 








n 


Ov 


CO 




Ov 


10 





00 


M 


(N 


<N 


t^ 


0\ 


M 


On 





t^ 


r-> 


Tt- 


to 


CO 


coo 


10 VO 




^0 


t^ 00 




CO 00 





00 


vO 


10 


^ 


VO VO 


CO 


<N 


t^ 00 


10 
















'-' 






^ 





































CN 


00 


covo 


^ 


M 


1^ 


COO 


10 


^ 


l_l 


t^ 


CO 


CO 


Ov 


-+ 


(^ 





M 


OS 


C^ 


COVO 


t^ 


















On 





'^ 


IN 


t^ \o 


'^l- 


M 


M 


l>-00 


M 


10 


10 


CO 





00 


Ov 


q 


<N 





t^ 


*-" 


M 


^ 


*-* 


" 


M 


M 


CS 


*-* 


*~' 


<N 


" 


M 


CO 


cq 


M 


<N 


M 


M 


M 


cs 


M 




M 


<S 


CO 


•^ 



M 10 
'^J- 


I>» M 

CO Ol M 


0\ 


COOO M 

"^J- 00 ■* 


M 


CO 


S2 

Ov 


M 

On 


On 


^ 


M CS 


M M es 


M 


M CO M 


<N 


VO 


(S 


^ 


CS 


<N 



Tj-TfOO M T^ONCOlOr^M 

Moq-^qx^-qO'^oo 

M M <N CO c^ 



CO CNJ M M 



COVO CN) t;1-IOM OnVO lOlOM CO'^NO 
cj <N t^odvd 'j-N C-^CnJ lOM cotoi>. 



MU->i>.oo looooqio 
lot^oo* docjvd "^lovd 



11 



X5 J5 <U =^. 



c3 pH 



^ *-< c 



-P. Q 






•^ F-H <-M 

^ ^ ^ 
J2 rt c^ 



^ u u^ ^. c ti a 

C3 o (-1 D .rt .rt .M 

CO w2 «2 ,^3 4:3 ^ 4:3 






Q ,„- 



<V r^ U 



j^ ri4 z -i^ 

u U t5 ^^ 









13 ;3 6 
o o ;3 



564 



FOOD PRODUCTS 






qvQO -"t On 
i^f t^ 10 CO 



fa 2 



8 8 8 






0\ t^ o o •-• 

O <N \0 10 00 

O <N CO f^ H 



CO 

M M O 10 



of 



covO w 00 

8 8 S 8 



CO 

vO fO N to 

O H o o 



M O M 

GO O 



rooqvqoqoqoq -"^cs 



M O c^ rocOrOcOcOM 



10 r}- r^ 10 



CO ,_; 



c>p COCO M q\oooo t^o c^ Coo 

cOOnhvO Tft^rodvfOcOTJ-Tt-to 






uoqiod 






pasBqD 
-jnd sy 



11 



uoiviod 

aiqipa 






M »0 t^ 



pas-BqD 
-jnd sy 



M W CO <N H 



CO On 00 
Tt t^ On 



pl( a ►- P 



S.2-S 



o ojoo 00 tH t^vo wOOO 

fOt^Ti-J>.Osc3 M CS M H <s 



10 q\ o> t^ 10 00 

d 10 M oj M M 



^. a 



<u 



^ 6 

"-a 

o 






_o 


eets, cool 
fresh 
lackberri 


canned 
ack fish 
ueberries 
ue fish . 
uillon . 
azil nuts 
ead, gral 
rolls, wa 








m pq 


eq pq pq pq pq pq 






si 

-o ^ 
pq 



APPENDIX E 



565 



CO CO 





H 


cs 


M 


■«t 


"* 




c« 










cs 




10 




CO 






M 






^ ^ 



g^ ^ 



00 U-) Tt <N 
O <N M O 



COO 10 

O M M 

O O ''I- 



M O CS 10 



000 ■<tlO'<t»0<N lO"<t cooo O 



. . . i" 

0\ io\0 o 



M (N 0\ CI 



lOfOOO t^f^vo t~*vO vooi csoo Ot^OOO O^O c^O rt-O coO 

\dc)d\cod^cocoioco'^oc^'^io'^ ■^ 6 d 0^06 onvo 



CO 








10 


t^ 


VO 


M 


M 


00 





r^ 


CS 












00 


On 


N 


10 


„ 


COO 


M 










uo 00 


M 


M 


M 


rf 


<N 


cs 


'too 















<N 






OJ 


't 


H 


CO 


CO 


H 






o» 




CO 


^ 






CO 


10 


H 














M 




*-* 












C^ 


CO 


(N 





^ 





10 


„ 


vO 


00 


l_l 


J^ 


oq 


f^ 


^ 


M 


00 


CO 


'+ 


OS 


(N 


CO 


On 


t~^ 


M 


Tf 




M 





00 


r^ 


M 


10 00 




t^OO 





O) 





CO 


<N 




CO 


cs 




CO 


Tf- 


»0 M 


CO 


0^ 








04 


M 


CO 


'"' 






COO 


•^ 














•^ 




M 






M 




CO 





O O 10 o 

" 't 00 



q 


CO 1>- 

ONOO Tt, 
CO d H 


t^OO 00 

<N up q 

CO ' H 


M 
00 


M 



CO vo Tt 

M t^ 


COOO 00 
10 »o 


^ 



O Mvo -"too 000 

-t o 00 00 N q 00 q 

d coOvcocO'tM d 



t^ t^ o 

up o O 
H roo 



r^ c^ tJ- M 



0\ 'to 
CO 



04 CI 
4 H 



00 o 

00 M 



rtr^Tj-t^OO 000 u^iOrtONH 0^^^ On 
M 'c^Mdio4odNCOUo4cOO\<>J 



1-1 u Ui 

<D <D <U <U 






m PP pq 



ti ^ S 

13 rt oJ 

M U U 






<a3 O 



bO U 






UCJUUUUU U U 



be 

c 
-- ^ o 

-§ 8 § f I 

.y O «i 5 P 

^ ^ .ti ^ ^ 



566 



FOOD TRODUCTS 



fa-? 



o o 

8 8 



Phc5 



CO O H 

cs vO O O 

M O O O 



Uc5 



lO O ^o 
M CO ro 

o o o 



00 '^ 

o o 
o o 



'^J-OO'^'^'-icsrO'NtHCS 



VO i>» <N <N <N 



"1" ^ 
cs c3 



Tfoo OO roc^ vocs 
M On 0\ 00 H M 



i" 1 9 
d MD o6 



00 vo q 

rf 00 H 



XT) l>-0O\r> 

o\ 6 o^ 6^ 






uonjod 



H M OnO O 

00 M 



H OnvO lO -"t Tt po ■<!*• 



pasBqa 
-jnd sy 



locoovo w w lOOOOOOOOO 

HCOM(NVOOlO<N<NM<N 

CS H OO H <N 



Si 



aiqjpa 



00 O O 
rO d 



ONO^OvONO^O^rOOO t^Tj-TJ-(N vo 

■<tq^q^q^o^^oq>ooooqoqoooo 

CO fO d ' ' ' " W CS 



p3SBX{D 

-jnd sy 



H ro !>• 



fO CO O O 

!>• 4 d 



O^ On 0\ 0\ 0\ CO 

Ov On On q> CO O 

CO On d ' ' * * H 



p;^ 



H \0 lO 
CS CO d 



t^ cs CO O CO 00 lO 

H vo vo vO vO O lO 

H H H M '^ M 



rj- lo 00 

00 On On OOO 



o o o '^ o 






u. p 



u. 0) 



-^ ^ M «=• -- 

G G C C 2 ^ 

»-l >H »-l 1- 

o o o 



„ ^ ^ 

o o o 



UUUO UCJ UUOUUCJ 






APPENDIX E 



567 






to « 



up 10 q 

t^ <> t^ vo 






0\ f^ PO 10 



00 
rj- 10 t^ 0\ 
cs O <N <N 



00 

o o 



00 

o 



10 <N O 

t^ \0 o 

O <N 



M Tj- ro H 



MHO 

rO PO PC fO 



"1" 1 '^ 't *^ 9 
ro 10 (N 00 <N ro 



10 Tf M <N 



10 fo O 
O t-~- !>• 



Tj- <N 00 Th 00 rj- t^ 
10 10 00 O t>- 10 N 

0^ MM 



10 


10 


M 


vn 


10 


VO 






Ch 


POOO 


vO 


00 


•^00 


00 




00 


■^ 




CIS 


r^ 00 


00 


no 


00 


CN 


M 


10 


Ol 


t^ 


n- 






(N 


<N VO 





CI 


VO 


10 


<N 




CN 


M 




Oi 




CN 


CM 


cs 


CI 




<N 






10 vo 










M 






CO 
























10 


10 


„ 


vO 


t^ 


10 


M 


10 


<N 


ro^ 






M 




00 


(N 


00 








ON 


r^ 00 


00 


00 


00 


(N 


tN 


LO 


cs 


s 


^ 


PO 


t^ 


CO 


N t^ 






00 




<N 


CO 


M 


CO 


10 

CO 


CN 


CI 


CS 


<N 


Cl 


C4 



M M CI 



M 00 
CN 00 



t^ \0 MD 

6 4 CI 






CO -^ vq 
CI o 10 



Tt Tt CI 



q\ CO CO M M 

VO vO "O ^ O 






^ r\ rJ 



UUU 



<^ O r , 






^ i^ 



is .= 



4J 0) ' 



a a <il 



y^ c«~4=! -3 






S ^ S b 



2 c3 is > 

bo di en c3 
-*J" -m" +J +j~ 

Oj TO C^ 'Cj 

D lU (U (U 

-^ -5 -^ -^ 

^ ^ ^ ^ 



S68 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



(H 


s 
















00 o 




1 


O 










(N Tt 


S 












:2 




O H 




<N 1^00 lO CO t^ CO 


H 


^ 




M 


<N 


Ol (N T;ft^lOCS CO<N <N 




s 




PO 


NO 


CO TfOO-^NOt--.t^MNor^ 




« § 








8 8 8 8 8 q B q 8 8 q 




^c5 




8 


°- 




ql 




00 


NO 


M COOO -"tcOOO M OOO 




o 


ON f- 


On 


CMTt OmcnoOioOJ^OnO 
mO nonocncoc^mmOm 


O 


P^O 


M 


M vq 


q 


1 


§1 




VO <N 


CO 


■^M t^Ti-cocNTJ-NOco-* 


i 
< 


q 


§? 


8 


S S ? S' S S "S 8 8 8 8 






-« 


c 


M O to O O 


i^ o 


lo csiodOioOiocscsO 
CO ONO^oviocoOt^'^ONt^ 






Q 


Oy\0 CO 0^ H ^ 


M lO 




pii 


2 


fOOO TfTf H 


■* 


H co-<^Ti-ON»OMTj-t^cOrt 




O 




<M <N 






1 


r^ 


lO <N 00 -^ Tj- 


t- O 


■^ t^c^MOTj-OOt^t^oO 






o 


vo 


Tj- r>- a> vo 


NO CS 


lO lOVOOOOOMTfONONlOOO 






at 


M 


CO O On 


M 


MONONfONOTfMCSMM 


z 


uopjod 


00 


lO t^ t^ On ^O NO C^ 


^O -^Oniono cO-^moO •<tco 




<s 




CM rt 


O OnO coo •^00 ■^(Ococ^ CO 


3iq!Pa 




H 




M M H M M 


-jnd sy 


00 


O CO t^ On »0 


M (N 


00 O ■* conO On On t1- lO C^ 00 CO 


N 


<S 


CO ■* 


coOnOOO lO^tON^cOTtCN CO 

M M (H <M H 




uonjod 


8 


00 CONO C^ NO 


O 00 


NOcooOrt-HNcoioOpjiovn 


S; 


lO lo On O 00 


ONTl-NO»Ot^dNt^VOONlOMCOOOM 1 




aiqipa 


M 


H ir> M 


H 


COCO»OTtCOHC»HMM M 


§5 






















1^ 




8 


CO <N NO C^ NO 


O 00 


r^COQONO O T^-0^lOCOO^OONO 


pas^qo 


H M On O 00 


MTt00lOt^ONVOl<.^U-)CSTj-6NM 1 


-jnd sy 


H 


M 00 M 


M H 


•^POIOONIOMCOMMM M 




: S S 3 


fO 


lO O NO 00 lONO ON 


COtOt^NONOIlOCO t^ 00 


\o 


t^ <N NO lOOO 


^ o 


co-4<N w cOONTtd cod OncO 




M M M 


H M 


M M M M H 




















' ' ' ^ ' ' 




. . . 






























(U 














J> 










TS 








, 






. . . o 








^ 
















a ' ' 








§ 








•n • 




• 


. . . s> . . 


. 


• +J • 




s 


^ 














. . C J2 ^3 




^ 




<• 














;i3 g ^ <U '75 S 

• • a^ -M O ^ ^ ^ 
'O sn g O 03 ^ 

2 2 Si^^-S-S 1 E 






s 
s 


a; 

u 

O 


1 


pi 


a 




bO u 

H 

o »5 


§1 • 

ii a 

-i^ ^ 13 

O O c 

ago 

c/1 en pU 








flH 


f^ 


(i 


C 


bo 


c 


oooowwww 


w 





APPENDIX E 



569 



rooq 
vd vd 



fO On M 00 vO M «S 



00 

OmOmOOmmmOOmw* m csto 

0000000000000 o 00 

q o o q q o o q q q q o q q q q 

ionOOnO^OOOOC^vOOO pO 

HO\Ti-vo-<d-rooOOfOrO^<-^'^# ThOO^t^ 

OOpOmhhmmmmmmm 00<N"^ 



00 Tj- 

M Tt 



o o 

M <N 

o o 



OTl-r^OOOOOOOOOO. 
OOMOOOOOOOOOO 






VO vO VO O t^ 00 



vq q 
10 \d 



r^ t^ u-) i^ O 

PO <N O •^ t^ 



00 rj-Qsqvq ■^^^fo 
C> d d lO 00 On * pO 



"1" 't 

vd Tt ■<+ H 



M f>. H PO 



00 



CSCS<NCNPOfOM<N<N(N<N 



Ovoq 

10 rj- 






vn 


ir, 


w 


rj- 00 


M 




PO 


VOOO 


m 





^ 





t1- 


00 




M 





10 





^ 







00 


CM 


N 


po 


!>. 


H 


CM 


PO 







PO 


CM 


PO 


-t 


't 


PO 


PO 


M 


PO 




H 


CI 

CM 


10 

pq 


CM 


CN 
10 








vo 


tJ- 


(s 


10 


t^OO 


^ 


10 


PO 


PO 


C^ 





00 


Tj-\0 


M 


t^ 


VDOO 


M 


■* 


10 





POO 


c^oo 




pr,vO 


<N 


PO 


CM 


PO 


PO 


CTs 


Tt 


PO 


't 


't 


u-> 


PO 


■<t 


PO 


■^ 


'^ 


M 


C^l 


»o 


M 


PO 


CM 




CI 








•"• 








M 


M 
























PO 


c^ 







PO 


M 





CM H 



t^ O M 00 



M r^ PO 

O '^ CM 

4 



CM M 0\IOM OOOO CI 

qv<NMCiroqqt^o(3 

Hd^i-l-IMHTi-'O 



HMMMHMMH MQ\HCI 



ri- C< t<i\0 ^ H 00 

r^ PO t^ PO CM vd ■^ 



rt PO\q 
PO CM d 



M U-3 Tf 

M OnOO 



po<N loo^'^oooo t>-pooq PO 

CMOd\OMHVOOMrOO 

H M rt M M 



i-^ b^ 



o S 



I s S3 ^ :§ 



o 



[« o -(-) t: '+-' 

^ en- 



^-6 



3 

en a" 






<1) 






S 








Tl 


:3 






' • 








^ 


hfl 




(3 


C 






<u 


C 


r! 




n 




1^' 


1 




c 





'^ 




pj 


r, 


4-> 


^ 


f1 




a 


fl) 


<u 


b 


a> 









H^ hJ H-5 H^ hJ H-; 





570 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



O 
1 






M Tj- t^ O O 00 On 
' H cs lo oi d 00 d\ 

<N M 






t--oq 




CS CN lo t}- C^ CO CO 


1 


-1 


lO N 


t^ O t^ O rh lO 
ioOmcovOco t-^OvO 


t^ 00 O c^i t^ O M 

8888§§8 


• ■ ■ 


sl 


CO fO 

CO M 


<nO<NIOOcO OOOvO 
HOt^coOO cot^OOOO 
coO H roiOcowioO O O 


T^ 0\ On tH M lO CO 
O M cooo O COO 

M M C^ M M H M 


1 




S8 


0\HiOTj-uoo CO coco 
H O covovo CO lOVO O O 
OOH<N-<t<NCOOOOO 


8?888l8 


: 1 


1 

2 


o 


"1" ^ 

H 


O t^O loioiocoO O lovo 
lOM t^t^cj t^oooq ^*^*^ 

C>< *CNliodN'^*«>-HCOCO 


O t^ t>. lO N »0 l>. 

vo H cooq T}- CO q 
"■j- to 6 r^ ""j- lo t^ 




CO <N 
IT) CS 


qj>-oq q q q co<n q q q q'^^O'^^'^f? 

d d 6 co^^C>^o'-<^ lOiOOO 6 M M t~^coo6 

lO MCSCOM CO MMMCNt^COW<NOI 


2 

si 


uoiqjod 


Jl^ 


(NCOlOt^'^CO lOCSCS 


On M <S C< 00 u-> O 
<S CO »0 tJ- <N CO ^ 


pgsBqD 
-jnd sy 


l^H rtO\M Oco»0ioco0 CNvO 
(N Ttvo c^ co»or^-*cO<N M rON 

H <N M <N lO 


lr-00 CO <N <N 00 <N 
CO coo lO CO Tt- lO 


1^ 


uoi:iiod 

^iqipa 


■^ lO 
lO M 


MOOMHOCO MMt^ 

qqMvOMPj q^q^oq 

H H ci C> lO H OCJ 


<N O^ \r) O t^ cs M 
O O 00 lo 0\ CN Tj- 

H M M M 'mm 


pasBqo 
-jndsv 


4 H 


ionoOmmOcO'OOhih 
esOOi-iOHC^ooOt-iO\ 


O Tj- <N CO -"t 00 <N 

CO CO c^ 00 M vq 00 

M M c3 H H H M 


11! 




vo q 
CO d 


qiooqiovo H o q <>'«f^ 

t^.tOTJ-t^HCOCOO' 'tJ-iA 

W M M MM 


01 lO (N !>. q up 00 

cJ ON t^od rf OnOO 


^ 


< 

1 


1 




-a 

. . Si T3 




1 s 




^ 9^ . . . . . 


jj -tJ 


salt, canned . 
Marmalade, orange 
Milk, condensed, sv 

condensed, unsw( 

skimmed . . 

whole . . . 
Molasses . . . 
Mushrooms . . 
Muskmelons 
Mutton, chuck . 

flank, med. fat 


fore quarter . 
hindquarter . 
hind leg, lean 
hind leg, med. fa 
loin, med. fat 
neck, med. fat 
shoulder, med. fa 



APPENDIX E 



571 



00 M _ Tl- 



vO PO 10 m « 



o o 
o o 
o. o 



O H O 

000 
000 



10 10 

OOOOOOmwm O 

000000000 O 

O O 



00000000 



t^ ro O O -* 

0\MvOO O^O »Oto 
OmhhOO<nc^ 



^ 



t^ 00 00 ^» fO ^J fO 

H 000000000 O 



■ 






















' 






* 




^ 






' 
















10 





CN 





UO 


1^ 





10 







to 


r^ 


to 


t^ 








to 


to 





cs 


p< 








to 


to 


to 





00 


0^ 





<N 


M 


PO 


CO 


ii-)# 


PC 




■^ 





Tl- 


t^ 


r^ 


00 


On 


^ 


to 


On 





PO 


<N 




PO 


"* 


'^ 




^ 


Tl- 








PO 


M 




(N 


<N 


cs 


t^ 


M 


H 


-=!■ 


^ 






NO 


NO 


t^ 


M 


PS 


H 


c< 


M 


T}- 


M 


CXD 




to 


<N 


PS 




Ol 








PS 


On 00 


00 


ThOO 


NO 


M 


t^ 





p^ 





NO 


tJ-\0 


a> 


POO 








IH 


PDO 


* 


OS 00 


OsOO 


to NO 


00 


On 


PO 


M 


NO 


t^ 00 


to 


On 


Tl- 


On 


to 


*'' 




H 


•"" 






" 






'd- 


"t 




PS 






H 


H 






<N 


c< 






00 











<N 


10 


Ov 


fO 


PC 


10 


to 


(N 


00 




•<t vo 


PO 


(N 


00 


NO 


00 


p^ 


M 


00 


8 


Tf 




r^ NO 


ON 


PO 






C^ 




PO 








PD 


ON 




to 


On 


M 


Tf 


M 


M 


to 


POOO 


01 






PO 


to 


PO 




M 




IN 






<N 




C^ 


H 




IH 


H 


N 


Ot 






H 




'-' 
















t^ 


cs 


VO 


ON 


coo 


00 


00 


c< 




00 


P^ 


NO 


PO 


r>. 


rt NO 


r^ 


cs 


^ 


00 





to 


Tt 


t^ NO 


ON 


COVO 




0\ 


H 


Tt 


r^ 


\o 


PO 




PC 


ON 


ON 


H 


On 


C< 


H 


r^ 


POOO 


p^ 


00 


w 


t^ 


CO 


to 


PO 




M 




N 






c« 


<N 


<N 




H 


M 


M 


PS 


M 






M 


H 


H 




M 




M 








vO 


TtOO 


'^t 


t^OO 


Tt- vo 


r^ 


8 




PO 


M 





PO 


■*00 


t-~ 


to 


r^ 


On 


P^ 


00 







00 


00 





rOOO 


10 


'!l- 


H 


cs 


00 






'^f 


On 


to 


to NO 


to 


to NO 


PO 


On 


to 


-* 




PO 


On 


PO 


H 


10 






H 




'-' 


t^ vo 


00 


t^ 




too 


t^ 00 






to 


TtNO 




PO 






H 


H 


H 



O MOO Tj-t^M potot^ t^oo H O r^tooo totot^O^t^OsPs OoooO 

POt^OO to-^NO O -^M 00 l>-ONtorl-00 to<N»0 POOsPOOO pOpOOnpO 



M 00 On 00 



tJ-nO NO t^ O 



NO M H M 



H t^ H to H 
d CS 00 H Tt 

M M PO 



PO PO •^ PO H 


to 00 


(N PO C^ C^ <N 


M 00 



T)-tOM tOONNO POOnO 

poc^NO «s t^ci piod W 



25 B 



2 8 > 



4) t^ 
(J (U 

0000 



-s 



•2 § 



>-i 03 ra tS 
c3 0) 0) 

Ph pL| Ph 



tn tS <U 

fi « s^ ^ 

c3 c3 rt o 

(U (U <U 

Ah Ph Ph 



XJ C 



tA'u l^ Oj O 






III 



Ph P^ P-i 



572 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



§ 


V 






t^ 




fO 












VO Ov Tf 


t^OC 


1 










t^ 




00 CO looo lo O 


a 


n 














xj 








00 


VO 


H 00 P» ■^ Ov 


H 


^ 








t^ •^ 


<s 


O O <N M rt 
















Tl- 00 




a 








vO vo <N 


t^ 


OcOt~~'^'^vi-)vO'^Ov O 




-"1 








Cl O M 


o 


OOOOwmOOO c< 






8 




8 8 8 


°- 


888888888 


8 




J? s 








Tf H VO 


CO 


VO O CD \0 VO VO N 


o 


•^2 


00 

q 






VO ooo 
q po H 


H 
H 


8 ?2^ q^ s-^^ q-5, 
















§ 










<N CS O 

9 9° 


■^ 


OMCOC^t^OOOO 


1 


q 


? 




8 


qqqqqqqqqMM 






i 


vO 


r< 


lO 


r^ 1^ O t^ ^o 


N 


voOt^i^O^OvoO O N 






■* 


O 


cs 


UO Tj- <N Tl- O 


o 


n t^TJ-oOOOvO <s •*t^O\">t 






<N 






lO CO H UOOO 


■<t 


MT^NOC^MM CO'^ 






o 








H 








2 




00 


!>. 


O 


rO O^ 00 0^ <N 


t^ 


OOO Cvrt-<NvO000000vO t^ 






o 


CO 


w 


<N ro •«t M <N 


o 


Hvo t^H QsO tJ-voc^ vot^ 














<N H VO CO 


H 


M M CO H H H 






u 
















uonjod 


VO 


(N 




>^0 00 ro O 


o 


CO OvoO 2 fiO «>-M COOtH 




lO 


ro 




W M H 00 Tj- 


CO 


IHMC<«^*^C4M00CO00'^ 


H a 


aiAipa 




<N 




H 




M CO CO 


r 
















pgsBqo 
-jnd sy 


VO 




u-> 


t-. VO VO VO <^ 


t^ 


COM t1-p« C^ Ot^M O\C<00 


in 




M^ 


H M C^ O lO 


CO 


M « CO<N VOIOH O coiOOO 








M C< 




M M t>. Tt 






00 


00 




00 looo fo o 


"<t 


vovO O\00 cOcoc^vo t^c^ tJ- 


s„ 


uoniod 


o 


M 




lO lO M C> •^ 


o 


Tj-vO Ot^OO <NVOOO M t>.o 


aiqipa 


M 


00 




Tj- C^ M 


M 


M Tt" O) M CO t^ 


n| 






























1° 




00 




O 


00 lO M t^ ro 


o 


VOVOMOO cot^C^OO t^C« M 


pasBqo 


Ov 




CO 


lO lO tJ- N 00 


<^ 


Ttt^cs t^oo o«vO vocovoM 


-and sy 


M 




cs 


Tj- t^ H 


H 


M M VO CO M VO t^ 
















N H 






N 




O 


lO O VO <>< 


CO 


VO rl- vooo O O »OvO VO CO 


CO 




t^ 


t>. Ov CO cs 0\ 


N 


VOM coOOO coo tJ-h O m 


A.S 










M 


CO <N M N 0« M 






• 










• 




S" ■ 




.... 
























^ 












h) 










p3 






^ 












g 


• 






. . . 


fl) 


^ 




v-^ 




. • . . 








. 






'^'S . 


^ 


tI 




^^ 












< 
1^ 


-^n 


1 




1^ :^i 


B 

0, 




Is 


c 


. a, ^ .= 








(^ 




^1 




*^ y rt > 

£ S S p. 


;2 


o 

o 

C 
'o 


1 

^ 


C 

1 


"_5 "-^ ^ 

2 2 2 S^l 
o o o 2 = 

Pl^ PlH PIH PU p. 


a: 
pi 





APPENDIX E 



573 



MD 


CO 

M 


























H 




« 








f^ 


t^ 


tJ- 


»o 




o 


lO 


w 


00 


CO 


H 














<N 


M 


lO 


lO 


■* 


to 


cs 


^ 


IT) 


CO 


o 

M 




o 

M 


* 



O O w 

o o o 
o o o 



cs CO 

w O 

o o 

o o 



00 PO t^ PO 

O PO M cs 

O M o o 

o o o o 



t^ t^ O 00 fO O 00 

LovoH r^t^oooo M 
O O fO <N 



H M H <N 



OO-^cooO vO o •* 

OOOm m m rrjt^voro 

OOOO O O OfOOM 



CO M 00 w 



li-) to r^ O 



f^ t-» lO 00 



<N o to lO 
cooq q »o 

d 00 CO c~i 



O 00 CO cs cs cs 



t1-h too cotoQscoO <N CO 

dd^ONf^co'sfMMd'^doio'^dMioc^d" d * 

H H-^TJ-COCOC^COOO-'tOMOOOCOMM 00 



ON 


H 


o 


CO 


OvOO 


o 


On 


i_i 


CO 


O 


O 


r~~ 


to 


c^ 


00 


r-. 




o 


00 


t-.o 


o 


CN) 


to 


O 


O 


<N 


too 


CO 


c» 


c^ 


Tt 


rl- 


to 


'^ 


"+ 


cs 


CO 


coo 








M 






to 


o 


M 


cs 


CO 


cs 




M 


N 


■* 






























H 


■^ 


c^ 


CN 


lO 


M 








<N 


H 


o 


■^ 


OOO 


^ 


^ 


On 


CO 


O 


M 


ON 


to 


TfOO 


t^ 


O 


C^ 




CO 


O 


8 


•^ 


to 


O 


o 


CO 


too 


M 


cs 


cs 


to 


j>.o 


•>+ 


rf 


<N 


Tt 


CO 




t^ 


cs 


O 


O 




Tt 


1^ 


CO 


cs 


CO 


«N 




M 


<N 


t^ 






CO 














M 


H 








<N 




■^ 


<N 


lO 


H 









c^cOOOt^Mf^c^ioOOCN) 

q <oco^» q <>o_ ^°9 ^1 

Mlod\»OM 'OOMMMI-Jd 



O M 0\ 0\ lo t^ 

t^ CO t^ t-! t^ On 



■^ rj- t^ On 1^ CO 



t)- CO On ^- to 
t^ t^ t^ CO 1^ 



H to On to M 



CNl cs p< 



H O M 't 



to On O- Th 



q _ NO On tJ- Tt O 

COCNI O too' mnOO 



COO f^ coOOOO O cs 
M M Oncoco^nO tool 



On CO M 

d cood 



c« 0) <U 

•ill 

P^ P^ P^ P!^ P(^ P< 



3 (U <U 

;; u u 



be ^ 

^ O 
5 B 



O 0) 

- I 



.S O 

-d ^ tJ 73 



o " 



-^ r, «3 
<U -^ c^ C! 



H a3 oj S bi) «- C 

^ i I ^^ Is 



03 ci 






574 



FOOD PRODUCTS 



W 3 

So 



M 



»0 ro 






£.1 



(1.0 



OOOOOOOOO 

ooooooooo 






9| 



M O 

o o 



mOwmOmmOmm 

oooooooooo 






■rl-Of^OO M "^OvO M O M tJ-oO ■^O OoO O"5j-00 



uoujod 



-jnd sy 



uopjod 

siqipa 



pasBqo 
-and sy 



00 \0 CO o 
CN 00 rj- CO 



00 VO 00 t^ 



OOO roO^T}-f^ •^00\O fO-^^N <N 

CO 



^ .,^„ .. TTOOVO co-^CN (N o O O O 
Tt-rJ-cot^fN ■^0\0 <^COO COO^^COO 0> 



q VO ■* 

PO lO lO 



CO<N<N«N<NNtS(^ 



«S lOlOvO ■^H t^(N 



M(N -"tfO^N <N POC^ <N CO 






CO vOt^T^O^00O^ o o oo 

vOmmmojcoO HcK'ot^covOOOiOvoOvO'^ 






<u 



C 03 



M ^ ^ a^ 



6^ 



B ^ 



'-' .!:. O 



M >H -J -J rJ CU <U 

HHHHH>> 



t;^ ^ ^ - ^ a; g — ' 



APPENDIX E 



575 



o 


H 


lO 


■>*• 


ON 


fO 


fO 


t^ 


H 


vO 


<^ 


O 


»o 


t~-. 


t^ 


Tf 


r^oo 


00 


'^l- 


M 


On 


CO 


t^ 



H(NCN|M(N<MCN)H 

oooooooo 
oooooooo 



O M O 

o o o 
o o o 



O\t^iOCNif^P0r0t^ 00 
lOfN'^OOOOOOw o 

<N COfO<N COCOrOMOO M 



On fO w 

VO t^ -^ 00 

O tJ- <N CO 



OOHHt^CNiMCOt^ »0 

OmmOmmmOoOm 
OOOOOOOOmO 



OnO 

VO CS M 

o o o 



lo O c^ O t^ lo t^ 

c^ (N O 00 On VO vO 
H Tt xo 00 lO vc5 VO 



MM CS 



rj-covo M COM Ot^CNj CO 
rf M Ov CO CO »0 <N 



Ov vO t^ 00 



(N rt VO 

^ 6 ^ 



CO r^ CO O O 



r^ 


n 


CO 


Tt- 


t-^ 


M 


,_, 


00 


lO 


■^ 


VO 


M 


00 


00 


VO 


r^ 


^ 


LO 


r^ 


r^ 


Tt- 


t^OO 


00 


'^ 


CO 


M 


M 


CO 


o 


CN 


1^ 


VO 


c^ 


















t^ 






CO 


M 




CO 






00 


CO 


t>. 


Tf 


o 


r-^ 


t~~ 


CO 


VO 


CO 00 


8 


VO 


oo 


VO 


Tf 


■* 


o 


O 


Ovvo 


CO 


M 


Ovvo 


CO 


U-) 


lO 


f^ 


Ol 


t^ 


4 






H 






M 


cs 






t^ 






00 


M 




CO 


M 




Ov 


t>.vO 


t^ 


<N 


^ 


^ 


Ov 


CO 


O 


CO 00 


o 


t^ 


O 


VO 


■* 


ON 


rl- 


lO 


lO 


r^oo 


00 


VO 


00 


lO 


VO VO 


00 


Ov 




CO 00 


M 


M 


cs 


M 


c^ 


cs 


<N 


•^ 


to 






^ 


CO 




CO 


cq 





c^ COCON rj-t^co<N VOM WOO r^ 



vO'^vo Tj- VO vOvOOOvOO'^NMM 

vd '5fTJ-i>.co<N -^-t^dod t^ ' <Nvd M coov 



JH r^ 



O c3 

^ „ '^ U 

0) (U (U 



t3 
O «3 






y3 y 



:3 M 



C ci 



S ^ 






>.i^ 






SUBJECT INDEX 



Abattoirs, see Slaughter houses and Meat 

inspection regulations. 
Absinthe, 469. 

Absorption of food, see Digestibility. 
Acetanilide, 32, 495. 
Acetic acid, 9, 470-473. 
Acid, acetic, 9, 470-473. 

aspartic, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 
344- 

butyric, 10, 11, 376. 

caffetannic, 466. 

capric, 10, 376. 

caproic, 10, 376. 

caprylic, 10, 376. 

citric, 9, 73, 75. 

glutamic, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 

314, 344. 

lactic, 9, 89, 92, 93, 1 1 2-1 14. 

lauric, 10, 376. 

linoleic, 10. 

linolenic, 10. 

myristic, 10, 376. 

oleic, 10, II, 376. 

palmitic, 10, 11, 376. 

pyroligneous, 472. 

stearic, 10, 11, 376. 

succinic, 9. 

tartaric, 9. 
Acid-forming elements, 20, 139, 204, 352- 

353. 
Acid strength of vinegars, 473. 
Acids, amino, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 

314, 344- 
Acids of fruits, 352. 

Adulteration, general definitions of, 26, 
27, 30-31, 40-41, 484-487- 

of butter, 374, 381-383. 

of cheese, 106. 

of cocoa, 438. 

of confectionery, 435. 

of flavoring extracts, 458. 



Adulteration, of honey, 435. 

of meat, 190-194, 

of milk, 62-69. 

of olive oil, 385. 

of sausage, 195. 

of sirups, 433, 434. 

of spices, 449. 

of vinegar, 471, 472. 
Alanin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 

344- 
Albuminoids, 14. 

Albumins, 13, 71, 72, 135, 136, 253, 273. 
Alcohol, 31, 32, 114, 428, 467-470, 493, 

. 494- 
Alcoholic liquors, 466-469, 476-477. 
Alcohol-soluble proteins, 13, 253, 257, 

268, 273, 279, 289. 
Aldehyde, cinnamic, 451, 460. 
Alewife, 226. 
Allspice, 450. 
Almond extract, 459. 
Almonds, 334, 338, 562. 
Alum baking powder, 282. 
Amandin, 344. 
Amaranth, 509. 
Amino acids, 13, 72, 77, 136, 202, 245, 

^ 289-291, 314, 344. 
Ammonia, from hydrolysis of proteins, 
72, 136, 202, 24s, 289, 314, 344. 

in cheese, 93, iii. 

in eggs, 158. 

in meat, 166. 

in milk, 85. 

in poultry, 221. 
Analysis of samples under food and drugs 

act, 38, 481. 
Anemia, 21, 351. 
Anise, 450. 

oil of, 459. 
Anise extract, 459. 
Annato, 370. 



2P 



577 



578 



INDEX 



Apples, 330, 335, 337, 341-343, 347, 353, 

562. 
Apricots, 330, 332, 335, 337, 338, 347, 

353, 562. 
Araban, 5, 8. 
Arabinose, s, 6. 
Arginin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 

344- 
Arrowroot, 439. 
Artichokes, 324, 328. 
Ash constituents, in general, 2-3, 17-21. 
in loo-Calorie portions of foods, 562- 

575- 
of cheese, 105, 565. 
of eggs, 136, 137, 567. 
of fruits, 347-349, 352-357, 562-575. 
of grain products, 293-295, 562-575. 
of meats, 203-204, 561, 563, 564, 568- 

575- 
of milk, 73, 75, 77, 570. 
of oysters, 244, 571. 
of vegetables, 347-34Q, 352-357, 562- 
575- 
Asparagus, 324, 328, 347, 353, 562. 
Aspartic acid, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 

314, 3U- 
Autointoxication, 214. 

Bacillus bulgaricus, 113, 125, 126. 

coli, 157-158. 

enter itidis, 191. 
Bacon, 190, 389, 562. 
Bacteria, in butter, 369, 395. 

in buttermilk, 112-114, 125-126. 

in cheese, 93, 101-103, 123-125. 

in cream, 121. 

in eggs, 152-154, 156-159. 

in fermented milks, 11 2-1 14, 125-126. 

in intestinal tract, 351. 

in meats, 166, 191-194, 217-219. 

in milk, 51, 52, 55-57, 66, 69-70, 81- 
84, 1 1 2-1 14, 539-540. 

in yoghurt, 11 2-1 14, 125-126. 
Bactericidal property of milk, 52. 
Bagasse, 403, 425. 
Baking powders, 281-282. 
Bakery products, 283-288. 
Balance of acid-forming and base-form- 
ing elements, 20, 73, 139, 244, 
352-356, 561-575- 
Bananas, 335, 343, 353, 562. 



Barley, 251-254, 562. 
Barley flour, 253. 
Bass, 226. 
Bay leaf, 450. 

Beans, 304, 312-315, 324, 328, 347, 353, 
562. 

baked, 328, 562. 

canned, 328. 

kidney, 313, 328, 562. 

lima, 324, 328, 347, 353, 562. 

string, 324, 328, 347, 353, 562. 
Beechnuts, 339. 

Beef, 162-178, 202, 205-212, 213, 216- 
219, 245, 563, 564- 

canned, 166-168, 177. 

composition of, percentage, 1 71-178. 
per loo-Calorie portion, 563-564. 

consumption of, 213. 

cooked, 177. 

corned, 167, 170, 177, 563. 

cuts of, 170-177, 206-212. 

dried, 167, 177, 178, 563. 

extract, 195-197. 

jerked, 167. 

juice, 563 {see also Meat juice). 

organs, 176, 177, 178, 563. 

spiced, 178. 

steak, see Cuts. 

tea, 196. 
Beer, 469. 

Beets, 325, 347, 353, 564. 
Beets, sugar, 397, 420-422. 
Benzoates in food, legal status, 42, 43, 

. 487. 
Beriberi, 267, 297-299. 
Berries, 329-330, 335-338, 564, 567, 569, 

573. 
Beverages, 465-470, 474-477. 
Blackberries, 335, 338, 347, 564. 
Blackfish, 226, 564. 
Blend, definition of, 491. 
Blood, 162. 
Blowups, 418. 
Blueberries, 347, 564. 
Bluefish, 226, 564. 
Blue shade (permitted dye), 509. 
Boneblack in sugar refining, 418. 
Bone extract, 197. 
Borax, 169, 171. 
Boric acid, 169, 171. 
Bouillon, 463, 564. 



INDEX 



579 



Bouillon cubes, 198, 219. 
Brain, beef, 176. 

pork, 188. 
Branding of foods and drugs, 3^-33, 40- 

43, 488-497- 
Brandy, 469. 
Brazilnuts, 339, 564. 

Bread, 274-280, 285-287, 290-295, 299- 
302, 564. 

comparison of white and brown, 291- 

295- 

composition of various kinds, percent- 
age, 285-287. 
per IOC-Calorie portion, 564. 

corn, 256, 285, 296-297. 

digestibility of, 291-294. 

"entire wheat," 291. 

flour in relation to, 274-279, 299-302. 

Graham, 285, 291, 564. 

rye, 268, 285, 564. 

score card for, 280. 

wheat in relation to, 268-273. 

white, 286, 291-294, 564. 

whole wheat, 287, 291-294, 564. 
Breadfruit, 347. 
Breakfast foods, 282. 
Breed, influence of, on composition of 

cows' milk, 59, 60, 84. 
Brie, 88, 94, 103, 105. 
Brine in canned foods (food inspection 

decision), 524. 
Brisket, 170-172, 211. 
Broths, 205-206. 
Brussels sprouts, 328. 
Buckwheat, 251, 254. 
Buckwheat flour, 254. 
Buffalo fish, 226. 
Butter, 366-377, 388-396, 565. 

composition of, 373-377, 56S- 

consumption of, 366, 392. 

digestibility of, 390. 

fat, 376, 396. 

fuel value of, 376, 377, 565. 

influence on growth, 391. 

"process," 377. 

renovated, 377. 

substitutes, 378-383. 
Butter fish, 226, 565. 
Buttermilk, 112, 114, 565, 
Butternuts, 339, 565. 
Butyric acid, 10, 376. 



Butyrin, 75, 376. 

By-products, of sugar manufacture, 424— 
431. 

in corn products industry, 263-264. 

in slaughter house industry, 164. 

Cabbage, 325, 347, 353, 565. 
Caffeine, 465, 475, 476. 
Caffeol, 466. 
Caffetannic acid, 466. 
Cake, 287. 

Calcium, as food constituent (general), 
2, 3, 19-20, 21. 

in eggs, 136-139. 

in fruits, 347-349- 

in meats, 203. 

in milk, 74, 78. 

in oysters, 244. 

in vegetables, 347-349. 

per 100 Calories in various foods, 
561-575- 
Calf's-foot jelly, 565. 
Camembert cheese, 88, 94, 102, 105. 
CandUng of eggs, 130, 143-144. 
Candy, 31, 435-437, 442- 
Cane, sugar, 397, 401. 
Cane sugar industry, 397-420, 423-429, 

445-447- 
Cannabis indica, 32, 495. 
Canned foods (food inspection decisions), 

517, 524- 
Canning, of meat, 167-169. 

of peas, 305-312. 

of tomatoes, 323. 
Canteloupe, see Muskmelon. 
Capers, 451. 
Capric acid, 10, 376. 
Caprin, 75, 376. 
Caproic acid, 10, 376. 
Caproin, 75, 376. 
Caprylic acid, 10, 376. 
Caprylin, 75, 376. 
Caraway, 451. 
Carbohydrates (general), i, 2, 4-9. 

of commercial glucose, 262. 

of corn, 258. 

of fruits, 335-338, 341-343. 

of grain products, 251-254, 256-258, 
264, 266, 268, 277-279, 283- 
288. 

of milk, 61. 



58o 



INDEX 



Carbohydrates, of nuts, 339-341- 

of peas, 308, 326, 328. 

of potatoes, 3i9» 322, 326 327. 

of spices, 449-458. 

of sweet potatoes, 322, 327, 328. 

of vegetables, 303, 324-329. 

{See also under Sirups, Starch, and 
Sugars.) 
Carbon as food constituent, 2, 3. 
Carbonatation, 422. 
Carotin, 75, 85. 
Carrots, 325, 347, 353, 565. 
Caryophylene, 452. 
Casein, 58, 71, 72, 135. 
Caseinogen, 58, 71, 75. 
Cassia, 451. 

oil of, 459. 
Cassia extract, 459. 
Catfish, 226, 565. 
Catsup, 328. 
Caul fat, 379- 

Cauliflower, 325, 347, 353, 565. 
Cayenne, 451. 
Celery, 325, 348, 353, 565. 
Celery seed extract, 459. 
Cellulose, 5, 8 {see also tinder Carbo- 
hydrates) . 
Cereals, breakfast, 282-283, 284, 295. 

general, see under Grain products. 
Cereal coffee, 464. 
Certification of dyes under food and drugs 

act, 508, 5 10-5 1 6, 518-520. 
Certified milk, 56, 533-544- 
Chard, 325, 348, 354, 565- 
Cheese, 86-111, 123-125, 565. 

adulteration, 106. 

American, 89-94, loi-iii, 123-125, 
56s. 
manufacture of, 89-93. 

bacteria in, 89, loi. 

brie, 94, 103, 105. 

camembert, 94, 102, 105. 

Cheddar, see American. 

Cheshire, 95. 

composition of, 105, 565. 

digestibility of, 109. 

Edam, 95, 105. 

Emmental, 95-96, 102, 105. 

fat standard, 108. 

fuel value, 109, 565. 

Gorgonzola, 96, 102. 



Cheese, Gruyere, 97. 

hard, 88. 

Limburg, 97, 103, 105. 

making, 86-94. 

microorganisms in, 89, 101-103. 

misbranding, 106. 

Neufchatel, 98, 105. 

nutritive value, 108-110. 

Parmesan, 98, 105. 

pineapple, 99, 105. 

place in the diet, iio-iii 

ripening, 93. 

Roquefort, 99, 102, 105. 

soft, 88. 

Stilton, 100, 102, 105. 
Chemical composition, of food in general, 
1-23. 

of individual articles of food, see xmder 
the name of each. 
Cherries, 335, 338, 348, 565. 
Cherry juice, 354- 
Chestnuts, 339, 565- 
Chicken, 203, 224, 245, 565. 
Chicory, 348. 
Chili-con-carne, 177. 
Chives, 348. 

Chloral hydrate, 32, 495. 
Chlorides, see Ash constituents. 
Chlorine, see Ash constituents. 
Chloroform, 32, 495. 
Chocolate, 436-439, 565. 
Choline, 134. 
Chops, 182, 183, 569. 
Chowder, clam, 463. 
Chuck, beef, 170, 172, 207, 211. 

mutton and lamb, 182, 183. 

veal, 179, 180. 
Churning, 37o-37i- 
Cinnamon, 451. 

oil of, 460. 
Cinnamon extract, 459. 
Citral, 458, 460. 
Citric acid, 9, 73, 74, 75. 
Citron, 337, 348, 354, 565. 
Clams, 241, 243, 244, 565. 
Clarification of foods, regulation, 485. 

of sugar cane juice, 404-405. 

of sugar solutions, 418. 
Classification of milk, 69-70. 
Cloves, 451. 

oil of, 460. 



INDEX 



S8i 



Coagulated proteins, 15. 

Coal-tar dyes, regulations controlling use 

of, 31, 41, 507-516, 518-520. 
Coating of foods, regulation, 485. 
Cocaine, 32, 495. 
Cocoa, 437-43Q, 466, 566. 
Cocoa butter, 437. 
Cocoa nibs, 437, 438. 
Coconut, 339, 348, 566. 
Coconut fat, 221, 382. 
Codfish, 203, 227, 230-232, 236, 566. 
Codliver oil, influence on growth, 391. 
CoeflScients of digestibility, see Diges- 
tibility. 
Coffee, 464, 465-466. 

substitute, 464. 
Cold storage, 148-153, 159-160, 165-167, 

217, 219, 221-223, 225. 
CoUards, 325. 
Collection of samples under food and 

drugs act, 38. 
CoUops, 177. 

Color, artificial in food (general), 31, 41, 
507-516, 518-520. 

in butter, 370. 

in cheese, 89, 107. 

in meat, 192. 

in milk, 63. 
Coloring vegetables with copper, 315- 

318. 
Colors and coloring in general, see Color. 
Colostrum, 58. 
Commission on milk standards, 68, 69- 

n- 

Composition, of food in general, 1-22. 
of individual articles of food, see under 

the name of each. 
Compounds, definition of, under food and 

drugs act, 493. 
Conalbumin, 135. 
Concrete sugar, 406. 
Condensed milk, 114-117, 126-127. 
Confectioners' sugar, 420. 
Confectionery, 31, 435-439, 484-485- 
Conjugated proteins, 14-15. 
Consomme, 463, 566. 
Constituents of foods in general, 1-23. 
of individual articles of food, see under 

the name of each. 
Cookies, 287. 
Cordials, 469. 



Coriander, 452. 

Corn, 161, 163, 251, 255-264, 296-297, 
305, 325, 328, 348, 566., 

meal, 256, 283, 566. 

oil, 221. 

preparations, 284, 565. 

products, industry, 259-263. 

proteins, constitution of, 289. 

sirup, 262, 263, 439. 

starch, 8, 259-263, 439, 566. 
Cottonseed oil, 11, 221, 380, 386-388. 

"stearine," 382. 
Count of food in package, 32, 528-531. 
Cowpeas, 313, 326, 349, 566. 
Cows for milk production, 49-50, 59-60, 

69-70, 87, 88, 534, 538-539. 
Crabs, 238, 243, 244. 
Cracked wheat, 285. 
Crackers, 287, 566. 
Cranberries, 335, 348, 354, 361, 567. 
Crayfish, 238, 243. 
Cream, 118-121, 127, 567. 
Cream of tartar baking powder, 281. 
Creatin, 202. 
Crystallizers, 411, 419. 
Crystalhzing of sugar, 409, 411, 419. 
Cucumbers, 325, 348, 354, 567. 
Cumin seed, 452. 
Currants, 335, 337, 348, 567. 
Cusk, 227. 

Cuts of meat, composition of, 1 71-176, 
180-181, 183-185, 187-190. 

diagrams of, 170, 179, 182, 186, 208. 

relative economy of, 206-212. 
Cystin, 13, 72, 136, 289. 

Dairy and food commissioner, oflace of, 

45- 
Dairy employees, 51, 69, 542-544. 
Dairy hygiene and sanitation, 50-57, 69- 

70, 533-544- 
Dairy score cards, 53-55- 
Dandelion greens, 348. 
Dates, 337, 348, 567. 
Deficiency diseases, 267. 
Denaturing under food and drugs act, 

499. 
Derived proteins, 15-16. 
Desaccharification of beet molasses, 430. 
Deterioration of poultry as affected by 

different temperatures, 221-223. 



582 



INDEX 



Dextrin, s, 8. 

Diet, 1-23, 74-81, 108-111, 139-141, 212- 
216, 246-247, 288-295, 345-357, 
388-393, 440-444- 
Diffusion, extraction of sugar from beets 

by, 422. 
Digestibility of, bacon fat, 389. 

beans, 312-314. 

bread, 291-294, 299-301. 

butter, 390. 

buttermilk, 112. 

cheese, 109-110, 124. 

chicken, 245-246, 248. 

codfish, 245-246. 

cowpeas, 313. 

duck, 245-246. 

eggs, 139- 

fats, 389. 

fish, 245-246, 248. 

flour products, fine and coarse, 291- 
294, 299-301. 

fruit, 343. 

goose fat, 389. 

kefir, 112. 

kumiss, 112. 

lard, 389. , 

legumes, 312-314. 

meat, 204-205. 

milk, 76-77. 

mutton fat, 389, 

nuts, 343. 

oleomargarine, 390. 

olive oil, 389. 

peas, 313. 

potatoes, 320. 

poultry, 245-246, 248. 

salmon, 245-246. 

stearin, 389. 

vegetables, 312-314, 320, 358-360. 

wheat bread, coarse and fine, 291-294, 
299-301. 
Dill seed, 452. 
Disaccharides, 5. 
Doughnuts, 287, 567. 
Dressed weight of beef, 165. 

of mutton, 182. 

of pork, 186. 
Dried eggs, 155-158. 
Dried meat, 167. 
Dried milk, 117-118, 126-127. 
Duck, 245-246. 



Dyes, regulations governing use in foods, 
41, 507-516, 518-520, 546. 

Edam cheese, 88, 95, 105. 
Edestin, 13, 273, 279, 289. 
Eels, 227, 567. 
Eggplant, 32s, 567. 
Eggs, 128-160, 567. 

candling of, 142-144. 

cold storage of, 148-154. 

composition of, 131-139, 567. 

constituents, nature of, 133-138, 159- 
160. 

drying of, 154-158. 

fat, nature of, 133-134. 
influence on growth, 391. 

frozen, 154-155, 157-158. 

grading, 130, 142-144. 

marketing, 142-147. 

nutritive value of, 139-141, 

place in the diet, 141. 

preservation of, 141-143, 147-160. 

price of, 149-15 1. 

production of, 128-130. 

proteins of, 134-136. 

spoilage, 1 51-154. 

trade practices in industry, 141. 

weight of, 136, 137. 

white of, 132-136, 159. 

yolk of, 132-136, 159. 
Emmental cheese, 88, 95, 102, 105. 
Endive, 348. 
Entrainment, 410. 
Enzymes, of barley, 253. 

of milk, 75. 
Erythrosin, use of, in food, 509. 
Essential oils, 449-463, 473-475- 
Eucaine, 32, 495. 
Eugenol, 450, 452, 460. 
Evaporated milk, 114-117, 126-127. 
Evaporation, in sugar industry, 406-408, 

419- 
Evaporators, 407, 408. 
Examination of samples under food and 

drugs act, 38. 
Excelsin, 13, 344. 

Exportation of food, regulations govern- 
ing, 497. 
Extractives of meat, 168, 202, 204-206, 

217-219. 
Extracts, flavoring, 458-463, 473-474. 



INDEX 



583 



Farina, 285, 567. 
Fats, 10-12, 366-396. 

amounts digested, 389, 393. 

consumption of, 392. 

digestibility of, 204, 389, 390. 

fuel value of, 12, 390. 

globules in milk, 58. 

influence on growth, 391, 396. 

in individual articles of food, see under 
the name of each. 

place in the diet, 388-394. 

references on, 23, 394-396. 

vegetable, as butter substitutes, 382. 
Fatty acids, 10-12, 376. 
Fennel, 452. 

Fermented milks, 111-114, 125-126. 
Fig bars, 287, 567. 
Figs, 335, 337, 348, 354, S67. 
Filberts, 339, 567. 
Filled cheese, 106. 
Filtration, in sugar industry, 405, 418, 

419. 
Fish, 200-201, 225-237, 245-250, 561, 

564-575- 
Flank, beef, composition and cost, 170, 

173, 207-211. 
lamb and mutton, 182, 184. 
veal, 179, 180. 
Flavoring extracts, 458-463, 473-474. 
Flounder, 227, 567. 
Flour, 274-280, 291-295, 299-302, 566, 

567 {see also under Bread, and 

the names of different grains). 
Food adulteration, see Adulteration. 
Food and Drugs Act, 28-44, 479-532- 
Food, constituents of, 1-23. 

functions of, 1-23. 
Food inspection decisions, 37, 501-532. 
Food legislation, 24-46. 
Food materials, definition, 3. 
Foods, see under the name of each. 
Foodstuffs, 4-21. 
Food values, see under the different 

articles of food. 
Fowl, 224, 568. 
Frogs' legs, 229, 568. 
Frozen beef, 165. 
Frozen eggs, 154-158. 
Frozen fish, 225, 250. 
Frozen poultry, 223. 
Fructose, 4, 6, 432, 435. 



Fruit, 303, 329-358, 361-365- 
changes in ripening, 341-343. 
composition of, 335-341, 347-349- 
digestibility and nutritive value, 343- 

345- 
place in the diet, 346-357. 
production of, 329-334. 
references to Uterature on, 358, 361- 
365- 
Fruitarians, 343. 

Fuel value, of food in general, i, 5, 9, 12, 
16-17, 21-23. 
of individual articles of food, se^ under 
each. 
Fuller's earth in oil refining, 387. 
Fiillmass, 412. 
Functions of food, 1-23. 

Galactan, 5, 8. 

Galactose, 4, 6. 

Game, 225. 

Gelatin, 198, 202, 206, $68. 

Gin, 469. 

Ginger, 452, 453, 568. 

crystallized, 568. 
Ginger extract, 460. 
Ginger-snaps, 287, 568. 
GUadin, 14, 272-273, 279, 289. 
Globulins, 13 {see also names of individual 

globulins). 
Glucose, 4, 5, 255, 261-263, 433, 435, 442, 

445, 446. 
Glutamic acid, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 

314, 344- 
Glutelins, 13, 289. 
Gluten, 272-273, 275, 279, 299-302. 

feed, 264. 

meal, 263. 
Glutenin, 14, 272, 273, 279. 
Glycerides, see Fats. 
Glycin, 13, 16, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 

314, 344- 
GlycocoU, see Glycin. 
Glycogen, 5, 8. 
Glycoproteins, 14. 
Goose, 224, 389, 568. 

eggs, 132. 
Gooseberries, 348. 
Gorgonzola cheese, 88, 96, 102. , 
Grades of milk, 69, 70. 
Graining of sugar, 409. 



584 



INDEX 



Grain products, 251-302 {see also under 

the individual grains and mill 

products). 
Granulator, 420. 
Grape butter, 568. 
Grapefruit, 348. 
Grape juice, 348, 354. S68. 
Grapes, 335, 338, 348, 354, 568. 
Greens, 325, 568. 

Green shade (permitted coal tar dye), 509. 
Growth, 16, 17, 21, 77-81, 84, 134, 140, 

289-291, 293-294, 391, 396. 
Gruyere, 97. 
Guaranty, under food and drugs act, 43, 

526-528, 531-532. 
Guava, 348. 
Gumbo, see Okra. 

Haddock, 227, 236, 568. 

Hake, 227. 

Halibut, 227, 236, 245, 568. 

Ham, 186, 187, 189, 190, 203, 568, 569. 

Hardening of oils, 388. 

Headcheese, 188, 569. 

Hearings, under food and drugs act, 39, 

482. 
Heart, beef, 176. 

mutton, 185. 

pork, 189. 

veal, 181. 
Hematogen, 138. 
Hemoglobins, 15. 
Heroin, 32, 495- 
Herring, 227, 236, 569. 
Hexosans, 5. 
Hexoses, 4. 

Hickory nuts, 339, 569. 
Histidin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 

344. 
Histones, 14. 
Hominy, 284, 569. 
Honey, 434, 439, 569. 
Hordein, 14, 253, 289. 
Horseradish, 328, 348, 453. 
Huckleberries, 336, 348, 569. 
Hundred-Calorie portions of foods, table 

of, 561-575- 
Hydrogen as food constituent, 2-3. 
Hydrogenation of oils, 388. 
Hygiene of the dairy, 50-57, 69-70, 533- 
544- 



Ice cream, 46, 1 21-12 2, 127. 

Imported foods, 44, 497, 498. 

Indigo disulfoacid (permitted dye), 509. 

Infection of meat, 191, 192. 

Ingredients, natural poisonous or dele- 
terious, in food, 485. 

Inosite, 18. 

Inspection, see Adulteration, Law, Meat, 
and Milk. 

Intestinal putrefaction, 351. 

Inulin, 5, 8. 

Invert sugar, 6, 435. 

Iodine, 2, 75. 

Iron, 3, 20-21, 75, 79, 136, 137, 138, 204, 
253, 347-349, 350, 561-575 (see 
also Ash constituents). 

Juices, fruit (general), 466 (see also Fruit), 
lemon, 569. 
orange, 571. 
raspberry, 573. 
strawberry, 573. 
sugar beet, 421. 
sugar cane, 401, 403. 

Kafir com, 284. 
Kefir, 112, 114. 
Kidney, beef, 177, 563. 

mutton, 185. 

pork, 189. 

veal, 181. 
Kohlrabi, 325. 
Kvuniss, 112, 114, 569. 

Labels, 488-493, 503-507. 

Lactalbumin, 13, 72, 75. 

Lactation, stage of, influence on com- 
position of cows' milk, 59. 

Lactic acid, 9, 89, 101-102, 112-113, 114. 

Lactic acid bacteria, 57, 89, loi, 112- 
114, 123-126. 

Lacto, 123, 127. 

Lactoglobulin, 75. 

Lactometer, 64, 65. 

Lactose, 5, 7, 76 (see also Milk sugar, 
and Milk, composition of). 

Lady fingers, 287. 

Lamb, 182-185, 569. 

Lard, 187, 221, 380, 387-389, 394, 395, 569. 
rendering from material " passed for 
sterilization," 559-560. 



INDEX 



S8S 



Lard substitutes, 387-388. 
Laurie acid, 10, 376. 
Laurin, 75, 376. 

Law governing foods and drugs generally, 
27-35, 479-532. 

meat inspection, 192-194, 545-560. 

oleomargarine, 380. 

tea, 465. 
Laxative effect, of fruits, 351-352. 

of whole wheat bread, 292-293. 
Leavening agents, 280-282. 
Lecithin, 18, 75, 133, 134. 
Lecithoproteins, 15. 
Leeks, 326, 348. 
Leg of lamb or mutton, 182, 183, 184, 185. 

of veal, 179, 180. 
Legumelin, 13, 314. 
Legumes, 304-318. 
Legumin, 13, 314. 
Lemon extract, 458, 466. 
Lemon juice, 336, 569. 
Lemon, oil of, 460. 

Lemons, 330, 331, 336, 348, 354, 569. 
Lentils, 326, 348, 569. 
Lettuce, 326, 354, 569. 
Leucin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 

344- 
Leucosin, 13, 273, 279, 289. 
Lichi nuts, 339. 
"Light green S. F. Yellowish" (permitted 

dye), 509. 
Limburg cheese, 88, 97, 103, 105. 
Limes, 348. 
Linoleic acid, 10. 
Linolenic acid, 1 1 . 
Lipins, see Fats and Lipoids. 
Lipochrome, 75. 
Lipoids, 22, 75, 391, 396. 
Liver, 177, 181, 185, 189, 203. 
Lobster, 238, 243, 244, 569. 
Loin, beef, 170, 173, 207, 209-212. 

lamb or mutton, 182, 183, 184. 

pork, 186, 188. 

veal, 179, 180. 
Lungs, 177, 181, 185, 189. 
Lutein, 134. 

Lysin, 13, 17, 72, 77, 136, 202, 245, 289, 
314, 344- 

Macaroni, 285, 569. 
Macaroons, 287. 



Mace, 453. 
Macedoine, 328. 
Mackerel, 227, 237, 570. 
Magnesium as food constituent, general, 
2, 3, 19 {see also under Ash 
constituents). 
Maize, 251, 255-264, 296, 297 {see also 
under Corn and Grain products) . 
Malt, 253, 296. 
Malt liquor, 469. 
Maltose, 5, 7, 262. 
Mamey, 348, 
Mango, 348. 
Manioca, 439. 
Mannan, 5, 8. 
Mannose, 4, 6. 
Manufacturing processes, see under the 

different articles of food. 
Maple sirup, 439, 445, 446, 447. 
Maple sugar, 439, 445, 446, 447. 
Margarine, 378-382. 
Marjoram, 454. 
Marjoram extract, 462. 

oil of, 462. 
Marmalade, orange, 338, 570. 
Marrow, 177, 189. 
Masse cuite, 412, 

Measure of food in package, legal re- 
quirements, 32, 528-531. 
Meat, 161-219, 561-575. 

ash constituents, 203-204, 56i-S75- 

broths, 205-206. 

composition, 171-190, 199, 224, 561- 

575. 
of fat-free substance, 199-201. 
consumption, 213-216. 
cost, 207-212, 213-214. 
digestibility, 204. 
economy, 206-212, 213-214. 
extract, 197, 201, 202. 
hygiene, 191, 545-560. 
industry, 161-169, 191-194, 212-219. 
inspection, 44, 190-194, 545-560. 
iron in, 204, 350. 
juice, 197. 

packing, 161-171, 212-219. 
place in the diet, 212-216. 
poisoning, 191. 
proteins, 202, 204. 
second grade, sterilized, 560. 
standard, 194. 



586 



INDEX 



Meat Inspection Law, 545-552 {see also 

Slaughter houses). 
Meat Inspection Regulations, 552-560. 
Medical examination of dairy employees, 

69, 542-544- 
Melting points of fats in relation to their 

digestibility, 389. 
Metaproteins, 15. 
Methods, see under the individual articles 

of food. 
Microorganisms in cheese making, loi- 

103. 
Milk, 48-85, 533-544, 570. 

adulteration of, 62. 

bacteria in, 66, 69, 70, 81-85, 539-S40- 

certified, 56, 533-544- 

chemical analysis of, 65, 81-85. 

classification and grading of, 69, 70. 

composition of, 57-62, 7i-75, 81-85, 
570. 

condensed, 114-117, 126, 127, 570. 

constituents, 71-75- 

economy of, 79-80. 

fuel value, 74, 76, 570. 

grade A, 69. 

grade B, 70. 

grade C, 70. 

industry, 48-57, 62-71, 81-85. 

inspection, 46, 62-66, 81-85. 

nutritive value, 74-81. 

physical properties, 58, 64, 65. 

place in the diet, 79-81. 

production and handling, 49-56. 

products, 86-123. 

references, 81-85. 

relation to growth, 78-81. 

specific gravity, 64, 65. 

standards, 66-71, 539, 540. 

summary of constituents, 74. 

test for cleanliness, 65. 

transportation of certified, 537. 

value in growth, 78-81. 

variations in composition and proper- 
ties, 60-62, 81-85. 
Milk chocolate, 438. 
Milk house, 50. 
Milking, 51, 535. 
Milk sugar, 7, 74, 75, 114. 
Mincemeat, 464. 

Misbranding, 26-28, 31-32, 40-41, 106, 
488-497. 



Mixed baking powders, 282. 

Mixed dyes, certification of, 513-516, 

518-520. 
Mixtures, definition under food and drugs 

act, 493. 
Moisture in butter, 375. 

in other foods, see under composition 

of each. 
Molasses, 414, 426-432, 439, 570. 
Molds, action of, in cheese ripening, 102- 

103- 
Monosaccharides, definition, 4-5. 
Morphine, 32, 493, 494. 
Mullet, 228. 
Municipal food control, 44-46. 

milk inspection, 63. 
Muscovado sugar, 408. 
Mushrooms, 326, 354, 570. 
Muskellung, 228. 
Muskmelons, 336, 348, 354, 570. 
Mussels, 238, 240, 243. 
Mustard, 454-455. 
Mustard oil, 455. 

Mutton, 182-185, 213, 219, 389, 571. 
Myristic acid, 10, 376. 
Myristin, 75, 376. 

Name, character of, regulation under 

food and drugs act, 490. 
distinctive, definition of, under food 

and drugs act, 491. 
"Naphthol yellow S," use in coloring 

foods, 509. 
Narcotic drugs, status under food and 

drugs act, 31, 32, 493-496. 
Navel cut of beef, 170, 173, 211. 
Neck, of beef, 174, 211. 

of mutton and lamb, 182, 183, 184. 
of veal, 179, 180. 
Nectarines, 336, 571. 
Neufchatel cheese, 88, 98, 105. 
Neutralization of acid produced in the 

body, 20, 22, 352-356. 
Neutral lard, 380. 
Nickel, use of, in hardening fatty oils, 

388. 
Nitrogen compounds, classification of, i, 

12-17. 
(For nitrogen compounds in particular 

articles of food, see description 

of each.) 



INDEX 



587 



Noodles, 285. 

North system of sanitary milk produc- 
tion, 56. 
Notices of judgment under food and 

drugs act, 40. 
Nucleon, 73. 
Nucleoproteins, 14, 203. 
Nutmeg, 456. 
extract of, 460. 
oil of, 461. 
Nutrients, in genera!, 1-23. 

of particular articles of food, see under 
each. 
Nutritive value of foods, see under Diet 
and under composition of each 
article or type of food. 
Nuts, 303, 329, 334, 339-346, 358-360, 
382. 
composition of, 339-341. 
. digestibility and nutritive value of, 
343-345- 
place in the diet, 345-346. 

Oatmeal, 265, 284, 297, 571. 

Oats, 251, 264-265, 297, 571. 

Official establishments under meat in- 
spection law, regulations gov- 
erning, 552-560. 

Oils, edible, 11, 366, 383-387, 389-391, 
394-396. 
individual oils, see under the name of 

each, 
volatile or "essential," 449-463, 473- 
475- 

Okra, 326, 328, 571. 

Oleic acid, 10, 11, 376. 

Olein, II, 75, 376. 

Oleomargarine, 220, 378-382, 388, 571. 

Oleo oil, 378, 379. 

Olive oil, 383-386, 388, 389. 

Olives, 329, 334, 349, 354, 383, 384, 571. 

Onions, 326, 349, 354, 571. 

Opium, 31, 32, 493, 494. 

Orange extract, 461. 

"Orange I," use of, for coloring food, 

Orange juice, 571. 
Orange, oil of, 461. 

Oranges, 330, 331-332, 336, 349, 354, 57i- 
Organic constituents of food, general, i- 
17. 



"Original unbroken package," definition 
of, under food and drugs act, 48a 
Osmotic pressure, 21. 
Otto of roses, 461. 
Ovalbumin, 135, 136. 
Over-run in butter making, 368. 
Ovomucin, 135. 
Ovomucoid, 135. 
Ovovitellin, 135, 136. 
Oxygen as food constituent, 2, 3. 
Oxyprolin, 72, 202, 344. 
Oysters, 238-244, 571. 

Package, definition of original, 480. 
Packing houses, see Meat industry and 

Meat inspection. 
Palmitic acid, 10, 11, 376. 
Palmitin, 11, 75, 376. 
Palmnut fat as butter substitute, 383. 
Paper from sugar cane, 425. 
Paprika, 349, 456. 
Parmesan cheese, 88, 98, 105. 
Parsnips, 326, 354, 571. 
Pasteurization of milk and cream, 57, 69, 

70, 369. 
Pastry, 286, 287. 

Peaches, 336, 338, 343, 349, 354, 57i- 
Peanut butter, 345, 571. 

oil, 221. 
Peanuts, 329, 340, 345, 571. 
Pearled barley, 252, 253. 
Pears, 330, 336, 338, 349, 354, 57i. 
Peas, 304-318, 326, 328, 349, 354, 571. 

canning of, 305-312. 

composition of, 308, 326, 328, 349. 

digestibility of, 313. 

grading of, 307. 

greened with copper, 315-318. 

proteins of, chemical nature, 314. 

references, 358-360. 
Pea soup, 464, 571. 
Pecans, 340, 571. 
Pectin, 343. 
Pemmican, 167. 
Penalties for violation of food and drugs 

act, 28, 29, 36. 
Pentosans, 5, 8, 258. 
Pentoses, 5. 
Pepper, 329, 456-458. 
Peppermint, 461. 

oil of, 461. 



588 



INDEX 



V 



Peppermint 'extract, 461. 

Peptids, 16, 93, 197- 

Perch, 228, 571. 

Persimmons, 336, 349. 

Phaseolin, 13, 314- 

Phenylalanin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 

314, 344- 
Phosphatids, 18, 133, 138, i5Q, 297, 360. 
Phosphate baking powders, 282. 
Phosphates, see Ash constituents and 

Phosphorus. 
Phospholipines, 18, 133, 138 {see also 

Phosphatids). 
Phosphoproteins, 15, 71, 13S, 138. 
Phosphorized fats, 18, 133, 138 {see also 

Phosphatids). 
Phosphorized proteins, 18 {see also Phos- 
phoproteins). 
Phosphorus, as food constituent, general, 

2, 3, IS, 18, 21. 
in particular articles of food, see ash 

constituents of each, 
in standard (loo-Calorie) portions of 

food, 562-575- 
Pickerel, 228. 
Pickles, 329. 
Pies, 287, 571, 572. 
Pignolias, 341. 
Pigs' feet, pickled, 189. 
Pilchard, 237. 
Pimento, 450. 

Pineapple, 336, 338, 349, 354, 572. 
Pineapple cheese, 99, 105. 
Pine nuts, 340, 572. 
Piniones, 341. 
Pinon, 341. 
Piperidine, 457. 
Piperine, 457. 
Pistachios, 341, 572. 
Place of various foods in the diet, see 

Diet. 
Plums, 336, 349, 354, 572. 
Poisons, restrictions on use in slaughter 

houses under meat inspection 

law, 553. 
Polarization of sugar cane juice, 403. 
Polishing rice, influence on composition, 

266. 
Pollock, 228. 
Poly peptids, 16. 
Polysaccharids, 5. 



Pomegranates, 336. 

Ponceau 3 R, use in coloring foods, 509. 

Porgy, 228. 

Pork, 185-190, 213, 572. 

Pork packing, 161, 163, 185. 

Porterhouse steak, 172, 208, 211. 

Potassium as food constituent, general, 

3, 19, 20. 
in particular articles or types of food, 

see ash constituents of each. 
Potato chips, 572. 
Potatoes, 319-323, 326-328, 349, 354, 

357, 572. 
Potatoes, sweet, 319, 322-323, 328, 572. 
Potato starch, 8, 322. 
Potential acidity or alkalinity in food, 

352-356. 
Poultry, 220-225, 245-248. 
Poultry-killing, 46, 221, 247, 248. 
Powdered milk, 11 7-1 18. 
Powdered sugar, 439. 
Powdering of foods, 31, 485. 
Preservation of eggs, 141-143, 147-160. 
of fish, 230-236. 
of meat, 165-171, 
of poultry, 221-223. 
{See also the descriptive paragraphs 

under various other articles of 

food.) 
Preservatives in food, legal status of, 31, 

41, 42-43, 63, 486-487, 508. 
Preserved fish, 230-237. 
Preserved foods generally, see descrip- 
tion and composition of each 

article or type of food. 
Press-cake from sugar manufacture, 426. 
Primary protein derivatives, 15. 
Principles of food legislation, 24-28. 
Private importations of food, 44. 
Process butter, 377. 
Processing canned food, 168-169. 
Production of food, see description of 

each article or type of food. 
Prolamin of rye, 268, 289. 
Prolin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 

344- 
Proof stick, 410, 411, 419. 
Proportions of ingredients required to 

be declared under food and 

drugs act, method of stating, 

496, 504. 



INDEX 



589 



Prosecutions under the food and drugs 
act, 39. 

Protamines, 14. 

Proteans, 15. 

Protein content estimation of, 12, 273. 
of individual articles or types of food, 
see description of each. 

Proteins, as food constituents, i, 3, 
12-17, and under the descrip- 
tion of each article or type of 
food, 
behavior in nutrition, 16-17, 76-77, 

289-291. 
chemical nature, 12-16, 71, 72, 93, 134- 
136, 201-203, 245, 273, 289-291, 

314, 315, 344- 
classification, 13-16. 
elementary composition, 3, 71, 135, 

273- 
energy value, 17. 
fuel value, 17. 
of flesh of different species compared, 

of grain products compared with other 

foods, 289-291. 
of individual articles or types of food, 

see description of each. 
Proteoses, 15. 

Proximate composition defined, 3. 
Prunes, 333, 336, 349, 354, 572. 
Publication of findings under food and 

drugs act, 40, 483. 
Puddings, 287. 
Pulp, sugar beet, 425. 
Pulses, 304-318. 

Pumpkins, 327, 328, 349, 354, 572. 
Pure food law (food and drugs act), 28- 

44, 479-532. 
Purins, 202-203, 214. 
Purpose of food inspection decisions, 37, 

SOI. 
Putrefactive bacteria, 351, 
Putrefactive products, 214. 

Quantity of food in package, statement 

required under food and drugs 

act, 32, 528. 
of substances required to be declared 

when present, method of stating, 

496, 504. 
Quince juice, 349. 



Radishes, 327, 349, 354, 572. 

Raffinose, 5, 7. 

Raisins, 334, 337, 349, 354, 573- 

Raspberries, 337, 349, 354, 573. 

Raspberry juice, 349, 573. 

Rat poisons, restrictions on use in 
slaughter houses, 553. 

Rat viruses, forbidden in slaughter 
houses under meat inspection 
regulations, 553. 

"Red dog" flour, 276, 279. 

Red dyes, regulations governing use in 
foods, 509-516. 

References to literature, see lists at end 
of each chapter. 

Refining of foods, legal status of sub- 
stances adding during, 485. 
of sugar, 416-420. 

Refrigeration, see Cold storage and Pres- 
ervation of poultry at different 
temperatures, 
effect on rate of deterioration, 221. 

Regulations for enforcement of food and 
drugs act, 29, 36, 479-500. 
of meat inspection law, 193, 552-560. 

Rendering of lard and tallow, under meat 
inspection regulations, 559-560. 
of neutral lard, 380. 

Renovated butter, 377. 

Retail cuts of beef, relative economy of, 
206-212. 

Rhubarb, 327, 349, 354, 573. 

Ribs, of beef, 170, 174, 207-212. 
of pork, 186. 
of veal, 179, 181. 

Rice, 251, 266-267, 284, 297-299, 356, 
573- 

Ripening, of cheese, 92-93, loi— 103. 
of cream for butter making, 367. 
of fruit, 341-343- 
of milk for cheese making, 89. 

Roe, shad, 228, 573. 

Rolled oats, 265. 

Rolls, 286, 574. 

Roquefort cheese, 99, 102, 105. 

Rose extract, 461. 

Round, beef, 170, 175, 207-211. 

Rules and regulations for the enforce- 
ment of the food and drugs act, 
29, 36, 479-500. 

Riun, 428, 429, 469. 



590 



INDEX 



Rump, beef, 170, 17s, 207-211. 

veal, 181. 
Rutabagas, 327, 349, 354, 573.- 
Rye, 251, 268, 289. 

Sabine pine nuts, 341- 
Saccharin, decisions regarding use in 
foods, 479, 487, 520, 522, 525- 
Saffron, 458. 
Sage, 458. 
Salad, 464. 

oil, use of term, 385. 

oils, 383-387. 
Salmon, 228, 232, 233, 237, 573. 

canning industry, 232. 
regulation of, 233. 
Salsify, 349- 
Salt, 18, 169, 371, 374, 448-449- 

analysis of dairy salt, 371. 

standard of purity for table salt, 449. 
Salted duck eggs, 132. 
Salting butter, 371. 
Saltpeter, in canned beef, 167. 

in meats generally, 169, 171. 
Salts of foods, see Ash constituents. 
Salts of tin in foods, food inspection de- 
cision, 517. 
Samples, collection of, under food and 

drugs act, 38, 480. 
Sandwiches, 464. 
Sanitary code of New York city, 45. 

of New York State, 45. 
Sanitary condition of slaughter houses 
under meat inspection regula- 
tions, 552-557- 
Sanitation in the milk industry, 52-56, 
81-85, 533-544- 

of slaughter houses, 552-557. 
Sapato, 349. 

Sardines, 234-236, 237, 573. 
Sauce in canned foods, 524. 
Sauerkraut, 327. 
Sausage, 46, 188, 572, 573. 
Savory, 458. 

oil of, 461. 
Savory extract, 461. 
Scallops, 238, 243, 24s, 573. 
Schlempe, 430, 431. 
Scope of food and drugs act, 35. 

of food inspection decisions, 501. 
Score card, bread, 280. 



Score card, cheese, 104. 

milk production, 53-55, 69, 70. 
Secondary protein derivatives, 15. 
Second break flour, 275. 
Second clear grade flour, 276, 277. 
Second-hand containers for meat and 
meat products, requirements 
governing use of under meat 
inspection regulations, 556. 
Second quality meat (sterilized), 560. 
Sediment test, 65. 
Separators, 119. 

Serin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 289, 314. 
Sesame oil, 11, 386. 
Shad, 228, 573. 

roe, 228, 573. 
Shank, beef, 170, 175, 207-212. 

veal, 179, 181. 
Sheepshead (fish), 228. 
Shellfish, 238-247, 248-250. 

bacterial contamination of, 240, 241. 

composition of, 243, 244. 

industry, 238-242. 

place in the diet, 247. 
Shoulder, beef, 170, 175, 207-212. 

lamb and mutton, 181, 183, 184. 

pork, 185, 187, 188. 

veal, 179, 181. 
Shredded wheat, 285, 573. 
Shrimp, 238, 244, 573. 
Simple proteins, 13. 
Sinalbin, 455. 
Sinigrin, 455. 
Sirloin, 172, 207-212. 
Sirup, corn, 262, 433. 

glucose, 262, 263, 433. 

in canned foods, 524. 

maple, 433. 

mixed, 433. 

open kettle, cane, 434. 

refiner's, 419, 433. 
Skimmed milk, 1 18-120, 368. 

cheese, 106. 
Skimming of milk, 62, 1 18-120, 368. 
Slaughter houses, 44, 46, 161-165, 191- 
194, 545-560. 

general methods, 164, 182, 185, 191, 
192. 

under meat inspection regulations, ac- 
cumulation of condemned ma- 
terial forbidden, 559. 



INDEX 



591 



Slaughter houses, under meat inspection 

regulations, accumulation of 

material in which flies may 

breed forbidden, 556-557. 

ante-mortem inspection of animals, 

557- 
equipment required, 552-557. 
lavatories required in, 554. 
methods, 552-560. 
plans and specifications, 552. 
post-mortem inspection of animals, 

558. 
precautions against flies, mice, etc., 

553- 
requirements as to sanitation, 552- 

557. 
as to water supply, 553. 
restrictions on admission of dogs, 
553-554- 
on use of rat poisons, 553. 
■ sanitation of, 552-557. 
specifications for, 552-557. 
utensils, 554-556. 
Slicing sugar beets"for diffusion process, 

421. 
Smelt, 229, 573. 

Smoke as meat preservative, 169. 
Soaked curd cheese, 107. 
Sodium, see Ash constituents. 
Sodium benzoate as food preservative, 
status under food and drugs act, 
42, 43, 479, 487. 
Sodium chloride, see Salt. 
Soft drinks, 46. 

Solids-not-fat in milk, 59, 61, 65, 66-68. 
Soup bones, 208, 209, 211. 
Soup liquor, 168. 
Soup stock, 176. 

Soups, composition and loo-Calorie por- 
tions of different kinds, 463- 
464, 565, 571, 575- 
Spaghetti, 285. 
Spanish mackerel, 229. 
Spearmint, 461. 

oil of, 462. 
Spearmint extract, 461. 
Specifications for production and handling 
of certified milk, 533-544. 
of other grades of milk, 69-70. 
for sanitation of slaughter houses under 
meat inspection law, 552-557. 



Spices, 449-463, 473-474- 

Spinach, 327, 349, 354, 573- 

Spring wheat, 269. 

Squash, 327, 328, 349, 573. 

Stables for milch cows, 50, 54, 533-534. 

Staining of foods, 31, 41, 485 {see also 

Color). 
Standards of composition and purity, 
general, 38-39, 479-493- 

for allspice, 450. 

for bone extract, 197. 

for buckwheat flour, 254. 

for butter, 376. 

process or renovated, 377. 

for cheese, 107-108. 

for chocolate, 437. 

for cinnamon extract, 459-460. 

for clove extract, 460. 

for cloves, 452. 

for cocoa, 437. 

for condensed milk, 116. 

for corn meal, 256. 

for cream, 120, 121. 

for essential oils, 459-463. 

for flavoring extracts, 459-463. 

for gelatin, 198. 

for ginger, 453. 

for ice cream, 122. 

for lemon extract, 460. 

for mace, 454. 

for maple sirup, 433-434- 

for meat, 194. 

for meat extract, 197. 

for meat juice, 197. 

for milk, 66-71. 

condensed and evaporated, 116. 

for molasses, 432. 

for mustard, 455. 

for nutmeg, 456. 

for olive oil, 385. 

for orange extract, 461. 

for pepper, 457. 

for peptone, 197. 

for process butter, 377. 

for refiner's sirup, 433. 

for salt, 449. 

for sausage, 195. 

for sirup, 433. 

for tea, 465. 

for tonka extract, 462. 

for vanilla extract, 462. 



592 



INDEX 



Standards of composition and purity for 
vinegars, 470-473- 
for wines, 467-468. 
Star anise extract, 462. 
Starch, 5, 7, 8, 259-263, 439, 566. 
State food control, 44-46. 
Steak, beef, 173, i77, i94, 207-212, 563- 
cooked, 177. 

Hamburg, bacteria in, 194. 
porterhouse, 173, 207-212, 563. 
round, 173, 177, 207-212, 563. 
sirloin, 173, 177, 207-212. 
tenderloin, 173, i77- 
Stearic acid, 10, 11, 376. 
Stearin, 11, 75, 376, 389- 
"Stearine," cottonseed, 382. 
Steep water in corn starch manufacture, 

263, 264. 
Sterilization of flesh of animal^ showing 

localized disease, 560. 
Sterilized meat, 560. 
Stilton cheese, 88, 100, 102, 105. 
Storing butter, 373, 396. 
Straight grade flour, 276, 277. 
Strawberries, 329, 337, 338, 349, 573- 
Strawberry juice, 573. 
Streptococci in eggs, 158. 
Structure of wheat kernel, 270-271. 
Sturgeon, 229, 237, 247, 573. 
Substances required to be named when 
present in drugs or foods, 32, 
493-496. 
Substitution, regulation under food and 

drugs act, 492. 
Succotash, 328. 
Succinic acid, fuel value of, 9. 
Sucrose, 5, 6, 397 {see also Sugar). 
Suet, 177, 221. 
Sugar, I, 4-7, 397-447, 573- 
composition, 397, 439. 
concrete, 406. 
"confectioner's," 420. 
consumption of, 423, 424, 441. 
digestion of, 443. 

extent of production and use, 423-424, 
industry, 397-431, 444-447- 
by-products of, 424-431, 
manufacture of, from beets, 420-422, 
from cane, 397-416. 
from maple sap, 397, 434, 
from palm, 397. 



Sugar, muscovado, 408. 

Sugar production, statistics, 423, 424. 

Sugar refining, 416-420, 

Sugars, I, 4-7, 261-263, 397-447. 
place in the diet, 440-444. 

Sulphites as meat preservative, 169, 171. 

Sulphur as natural constituent of food, 
see Ash constituents and Pro- 
teins. 

Sulphur dioxide as food preservative, 42, 
43, 508. 

Sulphurous acid, see Sulphur dioxide. 

Sweet basil extract, 462. 

Sweetbreads, 177, 203. 

Sweetened condensed milk, 115, 116. 

Sweet potatoes, 319, 327, 328, 349, 354, 
572. 

Swine, raising, 161, 163. 
slaughtering, 185-187, 545. 

Tallow, rendering from material "passed 
for sterilization " under the meat 
inspection law, 559. 

See also Beef and Mutton. 
Tamarinds, 349. 
Tapioca, 439, 574. 
Tartaric acid, fuel value, 9. 

in baking powder, 281, 
Tea, 465. 

Terrapin, 243, 574. 
Test rooms for canned foods, 169. 
Theine, 465. 
Theobroma cacao, 436. 
Theobromine, 466. 
Thyme, 458. 

extract, 462. 

oil of, 462. 
Tin, salts of, in food, 249, 517. 
Tomatoes, 323, 327, 328, 349, 354, S24i 
525, 574- 

canned, 323, 328, 524, 525, 574. 
Tomcod, 229. 
Tongue, beef, 177. 

lamb, 185, 569. 

mutton, canned, 185. 

pigs, pickled, 189. 
Tonka bean, 462. 

extract, 462. 
Transportation of certified milk, 537- 
Tripe, 162, 178, 574. 
Trisaccharide, 5. 



INDEX 



593 



Trout, 229, 574. 

Tryptophan, 13, 16, 72, 77, 136, 202, 245, 

289, 314. 344- 
Tuberculin testing of milch cows, 50, 69, 

538. 
Tunney, 237. 
Turbot, 229. 
Turkey, 224, 574. 

eggs, 132. 
Turnips, 327, 34Q, 354, 574- 
Turtle, 243, 574. 

eggs, 132. 
Tyrosin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 

344- 

Ultimate composition, definition of, 3. 
Unhulled rice, 266. 
Unsaturated fatty acids, 10. 
Uric acid, 225. 
Urine, acidity of, 355, 356. 
Utensils, in milk industry, 51, 537. 
in slaughter houses under meat inspec- 
tion law, 554-556. 

Vacuum, evaporation, 408-409. 

pans, 409, 410. 
Valin, 13, 72, 136, 202, 245, 289, 314, 344. 
Vanilla bean, 463. 

extract, 458, 462. 

wafers, 574. 
Vanillin, 458. 
Veal, 178-181, 203, 213, 574. 

"bob," 178. 

composition of, 179-180, 574-575. 

consumption of, 213. 

cuts of, 179. 

digestibility of, 178, 179. 
Vegetables, 303-329, 346-360, 562-575- 

classification of, 303, 304. 

composition of, 324-329, 347-349. 

digestibility of, 312-314, 320. 

greened with copper, report on, 315- 
318. 

nutritive value and place in the diet, 
314, 315, 346-357. 

references to literature, 358-360. 
VermicelU, 285. 

Veterinary inspection, in city food con- 
trol, 46. 

in milk industry, 50, 54, 69, 70, 538- 
539. 

2Q 



Veterinary inspection in slaughter 
houses, 191. 
under meat inspection law, 545-560. 

Vicilin, 314. 

Vignin, 13, 314. 

Vinegar, 169, 470-473, 507. 

Virgin oil, 385. 

Viruses, forbidden in slaughter houses 
under meat inspection regula- 
tions, 553. 

Vitamines, 22, 75, 199, 267, 356. 

Wafers, 287, 574. 

Walnuts, 334, 340, 34i, 575- 

Washing of sugar in refining, 417. 

Water, as constituent of foods in general, 
I, 2. 
of individual articles or types of 
food, see description of each, 
in canned foods, food inspection de- 
cision on, 524. 

Watercress, 349. 

Watering of milk, 62. 

Watermelons, 337, 349, 354, 575. 

Water supply for farms producing cer- 
tified milk, 537. 
for slaughter houses under meat in- 
spection law, 553. 

Weakfish, 229, 575. 

Weight of food in package, regulation 
regarding, 528-531. 

Wheat, 251, 268-274, 299-302 {see also 
Bread and Flour). 

Wheat products, composition of, 277, 
278, 279, 285-287, 573, 575- 
nutritive value of, 288-295. 

Wheat proteins, 272-274, 279, 289-292. 

Whey, 91, 575. 

Whisky, 469. 

White fish, 229, 575. 

White of egg, see Egg. 

Wholesale cuts of meat, 170, 179, 182, 
186, 207. 
(For composition see under each kind 
of meat.) 

Wines, 466-468. 

Wine vinegar, 470, 473. 

Wintergreen, extract, 463. 
oil of, 463. 

Winter oil, 388. 

Winter wheat, 269. 



594 



INDEX 



Wood smoke, permitted as food preserv- 
ative, 507. 
Working of butter, 372. 

Xylan, 5, 8. 
Xylose, 5, 6. 

Yams, 319, 323. 



Yeast, 280-281, 464. 

Yeast extracts, 198. 

Yellow shade, "permitted" dye, 509. 

Yoghurt, 1 1 2-1 14, 125-126. 

Yolk of egg, see Egg, 

Zein, 14, 257, 289-290. 
Zwieback, 287, 575. 



I 



Printed in the United States of America. 



T 



HE following pages contain advertisements of a 
few of the Macmillan books of kindred interest 



By henry C. SHERMAN, Ph.D. 

Professor in Columbia University 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition 

Cloth, i2mo, via + 355 pages, %i.50 

The purpose of this volume is to present the principles of 
the chemistry of food .and nutrition with special reference to 
the food requirements of man and the considerations which 
should underlie our judgment of the nutritive values of food. 
The food is here considered chiefly in its nutritive relations. 
It is hoped that the more detailed description of individual 
foods and the chemical and legal control of the food indus- 
try may be treated in a companion volume later. 

The present work is the outgrowth of several years' experi- 
ence in teaching the subject to collegiate and technical 
students who have represented a considerable diversity of 
previous training and points of view, and, while published 
primarily to meet the needs of the author's classes, it is 
hoped that it may also be of service to students and teachers 
elsewhere and to general readers whose main interest may 
lie in other fields, but who appreciate the importance of food 
and nutrition as factors in hygiene and preventive medicine. 

While neither the size nor the purpose of this book would 
permit an historical or technically critical treatment, a limited 
number of historical investigations and controverted views 
have been mentioned in order to give an idea of the nature 
and validity of the evidence on which our present beliefs 
are based, and in some cases to put the reader on his guard 
against theories which, while now outgrown, are still some- 
times encountered. 

PUBLISHED BY 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue, New York 



Methods of Organic Analysis 

By henry C. SHERMAN, Ph.D. 
Professor of Food Chemistry in Columbia University, Author of " Chem- 
istry of Food and Nutrition " 

Second Edition Rewritten and Enlarged 

Illustrated, Cloth, 8vo, $2.40 

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION 

In rewriting this work after six years of constant use in the classroom 
and laboratory, the author has endeavored to keep in mind the needs 
both of students and of practising chemists. Methods which are com- 
monly used as exercises for beginners (such, for example, as the deter- 
mination of alcohol by the distillation method) are fully described with 
detailed explanatory and precautionary notes, while those methods which 
are apt to be used only by advanced students or professional chemists are 
given more concisely. At the end of each chapter will be found, first a 
list of reference books arranged alphabetically by authors, and then a 
chronological list of journal articles, bulletins, etc., particularly of the 
last few years. The abbreviations are those used by the American Chemi- 
cal Society in the publication of Chemical Abstracts. 

The scope of the work has been somewhat extended, the new matter 
including a chapter on solid and liquid fuels, and sections on industrial 
alcohol, drying oils, crude petroleum, the new internation&,l methods of 
glycerin analysis, and quantitative rnethods for the testing of enzymes. 
The discussions of aldehydes, sugars, proteins, and food preservatives 
are also much fuller than in the first edition. 

These additions, and the rewriting of the original text to embody 
recent advances and certain changes of arrangement which have been 
found advantageous from the standpoint of teaching, make the present 
edition practically a new work. 

The text aijd references are designed to cover, along with the direc- 
tions for laboratory work, so much at least of the technology of the 
various topics considered as is involved in a proper appreciation of the 
purposes of the analysis and the significance of the analytical results. 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



A Laboratory Hand-book for Dietetics 

By MARY SWARTZ ROSE, Ph.D. 

Assistant Professor, Department of Nutrition, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Cloth, 8vo, $1.10 

Investigations into the quantitative requirements of the human body have progressed so 
far as to make dietetics to a certain extent an exact science, and to emphasize the importance 
of a quantitative study of food materials. This little book explains the problems involved in 
the calculation of food values and food requirements, and the construction of dietaries, and 
furnishes reference tables which will minimize the labor involved in such work without limiting 
dietary study to a few food materials 

Only brief statements of the conditions affecting food requirements have been made, the 
reader being referred to general textbooks on the subject of nutrition for fuller information, 
but such data have been included as seem most useful in determining the amount of food for 
any normal individual under varying conditions of age and activity. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Part I 

Food Values and Food Requirements. 

The Composition of Food Materials. 
The Functions of Food. 

Food as a Source of Energy. 

Food as Building Material. 

Food in the Regulation of Body Processes. 
Food Requirement. 

The Energy Requirement of Normal Adults. 

The Energy Requirement of Children. 

The Energy Requirement of the Aged. 

The Protein Requirement. 

The Fat and Carbohydrate Requirement. « 

The Ash Requirement. 

Part II 
Problems in Dietary Calculations. 

Studies in Weight, Measure, and Cost pf Some Common Food Materials. 

Relation between Percentage Composition and Weight. 

Calulation of the Fuel Value of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of the Weight of a Standard or loo-Calorie Portion. 

Food Value of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Distribution of Foodstuffs in a Standard Portion of a Single Food Material. 

Calculation of a Standard Portion of a Combination of Food Materials. 

Analysis of a Recipe. 

Modification of Cow's Milk to a Required Formula. 

Calculation of the Percentage Composition of a Food Mixture. 

The Calculation of a Complete Dietary. 

Scoring of the Dietary. 

Reference Tables. 

Refuse in Food Materials. 

Conversion Tables — Grams to Ounces. 

Conversion Tables — Ounces to Grams. 

Conversion Tables — Pounds to Grams. 

Food Values in Terms of Standard Units of Weight. 

Ash Constituents in Percentages of the Edible Portion. 

Ash Constituents in Standard or loo-Calorie Portions. 

Appendix • 

The Equipment of a Dietetics Laboratory. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Household Bacteriology 

BY 

ESTELLE D. BUCHANAN, M.S. 

Recently Assistant Professor of Botany, Iowa State College 
AND 

ROBERT EARLE BUCHANAN, Ph.D. 

Professor of Bacteriology, Iowa State College, and Bacteriologist of the 
Iowa Agricultural Experinaent Station 

Cloth, 8vo, xv-\-536 pp., index, $2.25 

The word Household is used as an extension rather than a limitation of the 
title. In a thoroughly scientific manner the authors treat the subject-matter 
of general as well as of household bacteriology and include, therefore, the 
true bacteria as well as the yeasts, molds, and protozoa. The volume is, 
therefore, a general textbook of micro-biology in which special attention is 
given to those problems which are of particular interest to the student of 
household science. The main divisions of the book treat (i) the micro- 
organisms themselves, (2) fermentations with special reference to those 
affecting foods, (3) the relations of bacteria and other micro-organisms to 
health. A fully illustrated key (comprising 37 pages) to the families and 
genera of common molds, supplements the unusually extended discussion of 
the morphology and classification of yeasts and molds, and makes possible 
the satisfactory identification of all forms ordinarily encountered by the 
student. The work embodies the results of the most recent researches. The 
book is exceptionally well written, the different topics are treated con- 
sistently and with a good sense of proportion. While concise in statement, it 
is thorough in method and scope. It is, therefore, well adapted for use as a 
text not only for students of household science^ but also for those to whom it is 
desired to present the science of bacteriology from an economic and sanitary 
rather than from a strictly medical point of view. 

"The book is a concisely written work on micro-biology, a branch of 
economic science that the public is beginning gradually to understand, has 
important relationship to the total welfare and prosperity of the community. 
. . . The manual can be recommended as a very good elementary bacteri- 
ology. It comprises about all there is of practical domestic value." 

— Boston Advertiser. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Textiles 

A Handbook for the Student and the Consumer 

BY 

MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN, B.S. 

President of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, acting head 

of the Department of Household Economics, Simmons College, recently 

Professor of Domestic Art in Teachers College 

AND 

ELLEN BEERS McGOWAN, B.S. 

Instructor in Household Arts in Teachers College, Columbia University 
Illustrated, Cloth, ismo, xi-\-428 pp., Index, Bibliography, $2.00 

This book is the result of twenty years' experience in teaching textiles to 
college students. It is intended as a textbook for college classes or for study 
clubs and as a guide for the housekeeper or individual consumer of textiles 
and clothing, the teacher, the club woman, the saleswoman, and as an intro- 
ductory survey of the subject for the student who contemplates professional 
work in the textile industries. 

The growing emphasis upon textile study in college departments of home 
economics or household arts, and the increasing use of the textile industry as 
teaching material in other departments and other grades of schools, shows a 
recognition of the part that the textiles are playing in the development of 
civilization and in our everyday life. Interest in the subject is still further 
accentuated by the movements now on foot to regulate the social-economic 
conditions in the textile and clothing industries and to secure standardization 
and honest labeling of textile products, ar> is being done for food products by 
the " pure food laws." 

To meet the existing need the authors have attempted to prepare a text 
suitable for use in college classes or by the public, shorter and more readable 
than the technical handbooks, yet sufficiently thorough and comprehensive to 
•give a sound grasp of the subject as a whole with so much of the technology 
as is directly helpful to the consumer and as should be included in general 
courses in colleges and technical or vocational schools. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Physics of the Household 

By C. J. LYNDE 

Professor of Physics Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, izmo, %i.25 

This book presents in an exceptionally clear and direct manner the 
subject matter of a concise yet sufficiently comprehensive course for those 
beginning the study of physics whether in the college, the technical insti- 
tute, or the secondary school. The principles are made clear by applica- 
tion to household affairs and other every-day experiences. Although 
adapted to the requirements of beginners, those who have previously 
studied physics will also welcome the concise review of principles and the 
many applications and illustrations. In addition to its merits as a text- 
book, it constitutes a most interesting and useful manual on household 
appliances and processes. Any one who is interested either in knowing 
just how the familiar appliances work, or in equipping a house according 
to the most modern methods, will find in Professor Lynde's book a wealth 
of stimulating and highly practical information. 



Elementary Household Chemistry 
By J. F. SNELL 

Professor of Chemistry in Macdonald College, Canada 

Illustrated, i2mo, %i.25 

In this textbook are to be found many new features both in the selec- 
tion and in the presentation of its subject matter. The principles of 
chemistry are developed and their every-day applications are studied 
simultaneously. The book is the outgrowth of a course given by the 
author for the last six years to students of high school and college age, but 
of varying degrees of preliminary training. The course has, therefore, 
been simple and the aim has been to introduce only such principles as 
find immediate application in connection with household work, but to 
present these principles in a correct and truly scientific manner. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

5257-8 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



i 






