TX 
715 



Cornell University Library 
TX 715.N5 



How to use left-overs, 




3 1924 003 568 478 



How to Use Lef t-Overs 



ISSUED BY 

MAYOR MITCHEL'S COMMITTEE 
ON FOOD SUPPLY 



JOHN PURROY MITCHEL, Mayor 
GEORGE W. PERKINS, ■ Chairman 
JOSEPH HARTIGAN, - Secretary 



JANUARY, 1915 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003568478 



How to Use Left-Overs 



ISSUED BY 

MAYOR MITGHEL'S COMMITTEE 
ON FOOD SUPPLY 



JOHN PURROY MITCHEL, Mayor 
(GEORGE W. PERKINS, - Chairman 
JOSEPH HARTIGAN, Secretary 



JANUARY, 19,15 



Tk 

204751 



S30-lS-(Bt)-5000 



CONTENTS 



Page 

INTRODUCTION 7 

LEFT-OVER MEAT: 

Warmed-over beef 8 

Panada of beef 8 

Beef loaf 8 

Fire Island stew 8 

Scallop of roast beef with rice 8 

Beef fritters 9 

Beef croquettes No. 1 9 

Beef croquettes No. 2 9 

Beef croquettes made from soup meat 9 

Bouilli salad 9 

Meat and potato croquettes 9 

Baked hash 10 

Fricandelles 10 

Meat Pie 10 

■ Cottage pie No. 1 10 

Cottage pie No, 2 10 

Pressed meat 1 

Sour hash 1 

Browned hash 1 

Shepherd's pie 1 

Scalloped mutton 1 

Scallop of mutton 12 

Scrambled mutton 12 

Curry of mutton 12 

Hashed mutton 12 

Mutton or lamb croquettes 12 

Oriental stew • 12 

Lamb (Turkish style) 13 

Lamb terrapin 13 

Lamb collops with tomato sauce 13 

Minced lamb 13 

Roast lamb or beef reheated 13 

Veal croquettes 13 

Hash balls .■ 13 

Ham on toast • ■ 13 

Warmed-over baked beans 14 

Croquettes of odds and ends 14 

LEFT-OVER POULTRY: 

Creamed chicken hash on toast 14 

Blanquette of chicken ■■ ■'■ 14 

Minced chicken with, green peppers 14 

Creamed chicken and peas : 15 

Chicken with tomatoes • • • r 15 

Chicken croquettes IS 

Chicken custard 15 

Scallop of chicken or turkey with celery 15 

Chicken or turkey timbale IS 

Chicken or turkey hash 16 

'' Turkey warmed over lo 



CONTENTS— Continued 

LEFT-OVER FISH: Page 

Creamed fish 16 

Creamed codfish 16 

Curried cod 16 

Fish balls 17 

Dropped fish balls 17 

Fish croquette's, No. 1 '. .17 

Fish croquettes, No. 2. 17 

Sauce for croquette mixtures .' 17 

Fish hash 17 

Fish with tomato sauce 18 

Fish with green pepper 18 

Fish pudding , 18 

Fish toast 18 

Salmon loaf ^ 18 

Salmon and rice '. . . . / 19 

Scalloped fish 19 

Scalloped halibut 19 

LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES: 

Stuffed potatoes 19 

Potato custards 20 

Scalloped potatoes „ 20 

Potatoes au gratin .T 20 

Broiled potatoes = 20 

Potato croquettes 20 

Vegetable browned hash 20 

Curried vegetables 21 

Left-over tomatoes 21 

Tomato paste 21 

Scalloped tomatoes 21 

Spinach with baked eggs 21 

Carrot croquettes .- 21 

Beets, Princess 22 

Creamed beets 22 

Parsnip cakes 22 

Celery toast 22 

Creamed soups from left-over vegetables 22 

LEFT-OVER EGGS: 

Egg croquettes 22 

Cold bacon and eggs 23 

Floating Island 23 

Apple float 23 

Meringue 23 

Scrambled eggs (using up yolks of eggs) 23 

Soft custard 23 



LEFT-OVER CEREALS: 

Cereals ,- 24 

Rice muffins. No. 1 24 

Rice muffins, No. 2 24 

Farina gems 24 

To freshen up rice or bread puddings 25 

Rice croquettes 25 

Simple rice pudding 25 

Plain farina pudding 25 

Apple farina pudding ■. 25 



CONTENTS— Continued 

LEFT-OVER CEREALS (Continued): * Page 

Oatmeal or hominy muffins 25 

Cornbread 26 

Cereal moulded with fruit 26 

Cereal griddle cakes r. 26 

Shredded wheat gruel 26 

Oatmeal gruel ! 26 

STALE BREAD: 

Bread muffins 26 

Bread croquettes '. 27 

Bread omelet 27 

Bread cereal 27 

Bread sticks - 27 

Cheese boxes 27 

Bread pudding 27 

Brown Betty ' 27 

Bread griddle cakes (with sour milk) 28 

Fried bread : 28 

STALE CAKE: 

Stale cake with custard 28 

Trifle ; -28 

CHEESE 1 28 

SOUR MILK OR CREAM: 

Cottage cheese 29 

Sour milk griddle cakes 29 

Emergency biscuits 29 

Sour cream gingerbread No. 1 29 

Sour cream gingerbread No. 2 29 

Sour cream filling for cakes No. 1 ." 29 

Sour cream filling for cakes No. 2 30 

FRUIT: 

Fruit sauce (fresh fruit) : . . 30 

Apricot, pear or peach sauce (left-over canned fruit) 30 

Cornstarch pudding 30 

SAUCES 30 

DRIPPINGS „ .■ 31 

Deviled marrow on crackers 32 

SOAP 32 



HOW TO USE LEFT-OVERS 



INTRODUCTION 



TO THE PURCHASING PUBLIC: 

European housewives are noted for knowing how to combine left- 
overs in such a way as to make most savory and nourishing dishes ; 
indeed, it is a common saying that a European family can live on what 
the average family in this country throws away. 

Every scrap of food left over from a meal can be used in some way. 
LEARN TO SAVE MONEY BY AVOIDING WASTE. 

// possible, buy for more than just one meal at a time; in other words, 
when buying, plan to have something left over for another meal, particu- 
larly where the first cooking takes a long time or where the food can be 
reheated to advantage. This will save you time, labor and money. 

This pamphlet contains over one hundred and twenty-five sugges- 
tions on the use that can be made of various left-overs. We have also 
issued a pamphlet on vegetables. It contains a lot of useful information, 
gives a list of the various vegetables to be had in the New York market 
from time to time, tells just how each one can be cooked, how to make 
fourteen different vegetable soups, etc. 

We have also issued a very useful booklet on fish. It gives direc- 
tions for cooking about seventy-five fish dishes, both fresh and salt, and 
also tells how to make fish soups, fish chowders, fish salads, etc. 

We have also issued a pamphlet on substitutes for meat. It contains 
some very interesting information on this subject and gives directions for 
cooking about one hundred and fifty nourishing and appetizing dishes 
that can be used in place of meat. 

All these pamphlets have been prepared with the object of helping 
YOU. They will enable you to cut down your living expenses, to save 
the waste, to vary your diet; in short, THEY WILL HELP YOU TO 
LIVE BETTER FOR LESS MONEY. 

If you have not a copy of each one of these pamphlets, write us 
at once and we will be glad to send them to you. 

MAYOR MITCHEL'S FOOD SUPPLY COMMITTEE, 

City Hall, New York City. 



LEFT-OVER MEAT 

Do not reheat left-over cooked meat for a long time at a great heat, 
as this will make the meat tough. 

Left-over cooked meat vsrill be much more palatable if highly 
seasoned. 

Left-over beef, lamb, mutton and veal are excellent for hash, scal- 
loped dishes, croquettes, a loaf, and salads. 

Left-over beef, lamb or mutton make excellent stews, with the addi- 
tion of any left-over vegetables. Any left-over meat, vegetables and 
gravy may be used to make a meat pie. 

A left-over ham bone will greatly improve the flavor of pea or bean 
soup. 

Any kind of cold meat may be chopped and used in an omelet or, 
combined- with rice and tomatoes, used for a scalloped dish. 

WARMED OVER BEEF. Melt two tablespoons butter, add 
two tablespoons flour, and pour on, gradually, one-half cup ste^Yed and 
strained tomatoes and one-fourth cup stock or water. Season with one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon paprika, and a few drops onion 
juice. Add one cup rare cooked chopped beef; cook one minute, and 
serve. 

PANADA OF BEEF. Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make 
one pint; season with a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley and a dash of pepper. Put this in the bottom of a baking dish. 
Crush six Uneeda biscuits, pour over them a half pint of milk, let them 
stand a minute or two, add one e.gg, well beaten, a half teaspoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Pour this over the beef and bake in a 
moderate oven twenty minutes to a half hour. 

Other meats may be substituted for beef. 

BEEF LOAF (of Cold Beef). Soak one tablespoonful of gelatine 
in one-half cup of cold water ten minutes. Then heat a quarter of a cup 
of well-seasoned stewed tomatoes to boiling, and pour over gelatine, stir- 
ring well until gelatine is dissolved. Have ready two cups of chopped 
and seasoned meat mixed with one tablespoonful of lemon juice and one 
small sour pickle minced fine. Stir tomato into meat mixture and mould 
in an earthen dish. Let stand in mould until jelly is stiff. Serve cold. 
(Equally good for Lamb or Mutton.) 

FIRE ISLAND STEW. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter ; add 
one small onion and cook together until very slightly browned. To this 
add one and one-half cups of stewed tomatoes and let boil slowly for 
about 15 minutes or until tomatoes are somewhat thickened. Then add 
one and one-half cups of cooked macaroni and let all cook together, until 
well thickened. Just before the dinner hour, put into saucepan one and 
one-half to two cups of remnants of tender roast beef, cut small, and 
thoroughly heat. Do not let the stew boil after the meat is added. 

SCALLOP OF ROAST BEEF WITH RICE. Season the rice 
with one teaspoonful of bacon fat to each cup of rice used and put a layer 
in a baking dish. Cover with cold roast beef chopped not too fine, then 



a layer of sliced or stewed tomatoes, seasoned well with salt and pepper 
and dots of butter. Repeat until the dish is nearly filled, and cover with 
buttered bread crumbs. Brown lightly in oven. 

BEEF FRITTERS. Chop suificient cold cooked beef to make 
one pint; add to it a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Beat two eggs until light, add to them a half pint of water or 
stock ; stir into this one and a half cups of flour, beat until smooth ; then 
add a teaspoonful of baking powder and the meat. Mix well and drop 
by spoonfuls into smoking hot, deep fat ; cook about three minutes, drain 
on brown paper, and serve either on a folded napkin, or in a dish with 
tornato sauce. 

BEEF CROQUETTES, No. 1. Chop fine one cup of cold, 
cooked, lean beef ; add half cup of fat, half cup of cold boiled or fried 
ham (cold pork will do if you have not the ham) ; also mince up a slice 
of onion. Season all with a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper and a 
teaspoonful of powdered sage or parsley, if liked. Heat together with 
half a cup of stock or milk ; when cool add a beaten egg. Form the mix- 
ture into balls, slightly flattened, roll in egg and bread crumbs, or flour 
and egg. Fry. in hot lard or beef drippings. Serve on a platter and gar- 
nish with sprigs of parsley. 

Almost any cold meat can be used instead of beef. 

BEEF CROQUETTES, No. 2. Take cold roast or corned beef. 
Put it into a wooden bowl and chop it fine. Mix with it about twice the 
quantity of hot mashed potatoes well seasoned with butter and salt. 
Beat up an egg and work it into the potato and meat, then form the 
mixture into little cakes the size of fish balls. Flatten them a little; roll 
in flour or egg and cracker crumbs, fry in butter and lard mixed, brown- 
ing on both sides. Serve piping hot. 

BEEF CROQUETTES MADE FROM SOUP MEAT. Chop 
the meat very fine. Season highly with salt, pepper and celery salt. Add 
a little grated nutmeg if desired. To two cups of the chopped meat add 
one beaten egg and .moisten with enough tomato sauce to shape into 
croquettes. Roll in egg and crumbs and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 
Serve with remainder of tomato sauce reheated and strained. 

BOUILLI SALAD. Cut beef that has been boiled for soup into 
half -inch dice ; season with onion juice. Mix lightly with some cold boiled 
potatoes cut into half-inch dice, and some parsley chopped fine. Pour 
over it a French dressing, or Mayonnaise. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs 
and lettuce. 

MEAT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. Put in a stewpan an 
ounce of butter and a slice of onion minced fine; when this simmers add 
a level teaspoonful of sifted flour; stir the mixture until it becomes 
smooth and frothy; then add half a cupful of milk and season with salt 
and pepper; let it come to a boil, stirring it all the while. Now add a 
cupful of cold meat chopped fine, and a cupful of cold or hot mashed 
potato. Mix all thoroughly and spread on a plate to cool. When cool, 
shape into balls or rolls. Dip them in beaten egg and roll in cracker 
or bread crumbs. Drop into smoking hot deep fat and fry about two 



10 

minutes until a delicate brown ; take them out with a skimmer and drain 
on a piece of brown paper. Serve immediately while hot. Cold rice or 
hominy may be used in place of the potato; or a cupful of cold fish, 
minced fine, may be used in place of meat. 

BAKED HASH. 

1 pint of chopped cooked J/^ pint of gravy or water 

meat 1 tablespoonful of butter, melted 

1 pint of chopped raw pota- Salt and pepper to taste 

tatoes 
Mix all the ingredients together, turn into a mould and bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. 

FRICANDELLES. 

2 cups of left-over meat, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

chopped fine 1 teaspoon onion juice 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 raw egg 

or 1 cup mgghed potatoes Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix ingredients, pat into round flat cakes, and fry in hot butter until 
brown. Serve with brown gravy, to which has been added a few drops of 
Worcestershire Sauce. 

MEAT PIE. Combine any left-over meat and vegetables and 
put into a baking dish. Over this pour any gravy you may have. Then 
make a biscuit crust and place it over the top of the baking dish. Put in 
oven and bake until the crust is brown. 

Biscuit Crust. 

1 cup flour Enough milk to make a soft dough 

2 teaspoons baking powder (about % to J4 cup) 
^2 teaspoon salt 4 level teaspoons butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Then rub in the butter until the 
mixture looks like meal. Add milk gradually. When all is moistened, 
turn out on to a floured board ; roll out to about one-fourth inch in thick- 
ness and spread over the top of the dish. 

COTTAGE PIE, No. 1. Mix any left-over meat with a white 
sauce or some meat gravy and put in a baking dish. Take any left-over 
vegetables and mash them with a little milk. Spread this over the top of 
the meat and then bake in the oven until brown. 

COTTAGE PIE, No. 2. 

1 cup chopped meat yi cup hot milk 

1 cup hot water or gravy 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups hot mashed potato Few grains celery salt 
J4 teaspoon salt ys teaspoon pepper 

Put meat in an earthen dish, add salt and pepper to taste, and the 
hot water. Mix the remaining ingredients with the mashed potato, and 
spread on top of meat ; bake in hot oven until potato is brown. 



11 

PRESSED MEAT. 

1 quart of cold, cooked 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

meat, chopped fine 1 teaspoonful of allspice 

y-2, teaspoonful cloves >4 teaspoonful of mace 

Yd, teaspoonful of black pep- 1 cup of boiling stock 

per Salt to taste 

Mix all the ingredients together, then press into a square mould and 
stand in a cold place to cool. When cold, turn it from the mould, cut it 
into slices, and serve. For this you can use any meat left from soups. 

SOUR HASH. Make a brown gravy; add to it about two tea- 
spoons of vinegar, a few drops of Kitchen Bouquet, and a piece of bay 
leaf. Salt and pepper to taste. (These proportions will be about right 
for one and one-half cup gravy.) Cut cold meat in one-half inch cubes 
and cook slowly in the gravy for half an hour. If too sour, add a little 
sugar. 

BROWNED HASH. Mix with cooked meat, chopped fine, half 
as much mashed potatoes and any or all of the ftfllowing " left-over " 
vegetables: Corn, string beans, stewed tomatoes, onions, carrots, celery 
or cabbage — all chopped fine. Put some fat into a heavy iron pan, and 
when it is smoking hot, spread the mixture over it. Let it heat and 
brown slowly. Then fold it over and serve on a warm platter with 
poached eggs on top, or with tomato sauce, with some green and red sweet 
peppers cooked in it. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

1 pound of cold mutton 1 tablespoonful of butter 

1 pint of cold boiled potatoes J^ cup of stock or water 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

The Crust. 

4 good-sized potatoes jE4 cup of cream or milk 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the mutton and boiled potatoes into pieces about one inch square ; 
put them in a deep pie or baking-dish, add the stock or water, salt, pepper, 
and half the butter cut. into small bits. Then make the crust as follows: 
Pare "and boil the potatoes, then mash them, add the cream or milk, the 
remainder of the butter, salt and pepper. Beat until light. Now add 
flour enough to make a soft dough^-about one cupful. Roll it out into 
a sheet, make a hole in the centre of the crust, to allow the escape of 
steam. Bake in a moderate oven one hour, serve in the same dish. 

SCALLOPED MUTTON. 

2 cups tomato sauce 1 cup cracker crumbs 

1 cup cooked macaroni 1/3 cup melted butter 

2 cups mutton cut in cubes Salt and pepper 

Arrange the macaroni; mutton, and tomato sauce in layers, sprinkle 
each layer with salt and pepper, and cover the top with the cracker crumbs 
which have been mixed with the butter ; bake in a moderate oven until 
the crumbs are brown. 



12 

SCALLOP OF MUTTON. Take scraps of cold mutton and cut 
in small pieces ; put a layer in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer 
of stewed tomatoes, then a layer of bread crumbs ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and over it put a few bits of butter, then another layer of meat, 
and so on until the dish is full. Have the last layer crumbs. Bake in 
a moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

SCRAMBLED MUTTON. 

2 cups cold mutton, chopped 1 tablespoon butter 
2 tablespoons hot water 3 eggs 

Pepper and salt. 

Add the meat to the hot water and butter. When the meat is hot, 
break in the eggs and stir constantly until the eggs begin to stiffen. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

1 pint of finely-chopped mut- J/^ cupful of rice 

ton 1 tablespoonful curry powder 

1 tablespoonful of butter 2 quarts boiling water 

1 tablespoonful of flour Salt to taste. 

Wash' the rice and put it in the boiling water ; let it boil thirty-five 
minutes. Drain in a colander. Now put the butter in a frying-pan; 
when melted, add the flour and stir until smooth; add a half -pint of 
boiling water ; let boil up once, then add meat, curry and salt. Stir ten 
minutes. Now heap it in the centre of a meat dish, and put the rice 
around, in a border. Brush all over with beaten tgg, and place in the 
oven a few minutes to brown. 

HASHED MUTTON. Cook two tablespoons butter with one 
tablespoon finely chopped onion, five minutes. Add two tablespoons 
flour, and pour on gradually, one cup stock. Add one cup cold chopped, 
cooked mutton, one-half cup cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice, and one 
tomato, skinned and cut in small pieces. Season with salt, pepper, and 
celery salt ; cover and cook in double boiler for ten minutes. 

MUTTON OR LAMB CROQUETTES. 

2 cups finely-chopped meat 1 cup white sauce 

1 tablespoonful chopped ca- 1 cup cooked rice 

pers 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

Salt and pepper. 

Mix all together and set away to get cold. When ready to form, 
lake up by full tablespoon fuls and shape into cylinders. Roll gently in 
finely sifted white bread crumbs, then in egg (slightly beaten with one 
tablespoonful of cold water) being careful that every part of the cro- 
quette is covered with egg and then again in crumbs. Fry lightly in 
smoking hot deep fat. 

ORIENTAL STEW. Simmer gently together 

2 cups cold lamb or mutton, 1 chopped onion 

cut in cubes 2 small cold potatoes sliced 

1 cup of water 1 cup of cooked peas or cooked 

2 tablespoons of butter string beans chopped 



13 

Season with salt, pepper and a very little curry powder, if liked. 
While stew is heating boil one-half cup of well-mashed rice. When 
tender, put into hot vegetable dish; hollow out the centre and fill with 
the stew. Serve at once. 

LAMB (TURKISH STYLE). Brown a small onion and one- 
third of a cup of well-mashed rice in butter or beef drippings. Add one 
cup of stewed tomatoes, one cup of lamb or mutton cut in squares, four 
tablespoons of minced carrot, one teaspoon of horseradish, salt and 
pepper to taste. Make quite moist with gravy or hot water. Cover closely 
and simmer until the rice is soft and the water absorbed. Serve on 
hot platter. 

LAMB TERRAPIN. Mix two cups cold cooked lamb, cut in 
small pieces, two hard-cooked eggs, chopped fine, two tablespoons olive 
oil. Let stand two minutes. Melt two tablespoons butter; add two 
tablespoons flour, one teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon Worcestershire 
Sauce, and one cup Lamb Stock, or milk. Cook five minutes. Add lamb 
and eggs and serve on graham toast. 

LAMB COLLOPS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Take small, 
thick pieces of roast lamb or boiled mutton. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in a hot saucepan, using enough 
butter to prevent burning. Serve with tomato sauce. 

MINCED LAMB. Chop remnants of cold roast lamb; there 
should be one cup. Put two tablespoons butter in hot saucepan, add 
lamb, sprinkle with salt, pepper and celery salt, and dredge thoroughly 
with flour; then add enough stock or water to moisten. Serve on small 
?lices of buttered toast. 

ROAST LAMB OR BEEF RE-HEATED. In warming up a leg 
of lamb or standing rib roast of beef, heap up the cavity left after carving 
with mashed potato. Brush over with melted butter and brown in oven. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. Cut one pint cooked veal in small 
pieces; add one tablespoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper, one table- 
spoon lemon juice. Melt three tablespoons butter; add two tablespoons 
finely minced onion, three tablespoons flour, and three-fourths cup milk 
or veal stock. Boil five minutes. Add two eggs well beaten. Stir con- 
'^tantly until thick. Mix with veal mixture and cool. Shape, allowing a 
rounding tablespoonful for each croquette. Dip in crumbs, egg and 
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot deep fat. Serve with or without White 
Sauce. 

HASH BALLS. Chop cold cooked, corned beef from which the 
skin, gristle, and most of the fat have been removed. Add an equal 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes, chopped and seasoned with salt, pepper 
and onion juice. Moisten with milk or cream, make into small flat cakes, 
and cook in a hot buttered frying pan. Brown on one side, turn and 
brown other side. 

HAM ON TOAST. 

1 cup of cold boiled ham J4 teaspoonful of mustard 

Yolks of two eggs Dash of cayenne 



14 

Chop the ham very fine. Beat the yolks until light, add them to 
ham, add the seasoning, stir the whole over the fire until the eggs are 
cooked. Serve immediately on squares of buttered toast. 

WARMED-OVER BAKED BEANS. Put into a hot frying-pan 

some of the pork cooked with the beans. When the fat has melted and 
is hot, pour in the beans, cover and set pan back on stove, when beans 
will cook slowly and brown underneath. Fold over like an omelet ; turn 
out on a hot platter and serve with tomato sauce. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. These are made of 
any scraps or bits of food left from one or more meals. Any left over 
food should be well chopped and creamed, mixed with one raw egg, a 
little flour and butter, and boiling water, then made into cakes and fried 
in smoking hot deep fat. 



LEFT-OVER POULTRY 

Left-over chicken or turkey makes excellent hash, scalloped dishes, 
croquettes, cream dishes, and salads. 

The carcass of a chicken or a turkey makes a splendid soup. 

Stuffing left from chicken or turkey may be sliced thin, browned in 
the oven, and served on toast. 

CREAMED CHICKEN HASH ON TOAST. This is one of the 
tastiest of all the warmed-over chicken dishes. Chop the chicken fine, 
and to each pint allow one tablespoonful of 'butter, one of flour and a 
half pint of milk. Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, stir 
over the fire until boiling; season the meat with a teaspoon ful of salt and 
a dash of pepper, add to the milk sauce, and cook in double boiler for 
fifteen minutes. Heap this on squares of nicely toasted bread and serve 
at once, or you may garnish the tops with carefully poached eggs. 

BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN. A blanquette may be made 
from any cold cooked chicken or veal, cut into pieces about half an inch 
square. To every pint of these pieces allow 

1 gill of stock or water 1 tablespoon of flour 

1 gill of milk or cream Yolks of two eggs 

1 tablespoon of butter Salt and pepper to taste 

Put the butter in a frying-pan to melt (do not brown) ; then add the 
flour ; mix until smooth ; add the stock, milk or cream, salt, and pepper ; 
stir continually until it boils ; then add the meat, and stand over a very 
moderate fire until hot. Take from the fire, add the yolks well beaten, 
and serve at once in a small heated dish. 

Do not boil after adding the yolks, or it will curdle. 

MINCED CHICKEN WITH GREEN PEPPERS. Boil two 
green peppers ten minutes, remove seeds, and cut in small strips; mix 
with two cups cold cooked fowl, cut in dice. Melt three tablespoons 
butter, add three tablespoons flour, and pour on gradually one and one- 
third cups chicken stock. Add chicken and peppers. Season with salt 
and pepper, and serve on circular pieces of toast. 



15 

CREAMED CHICKEN AND PEAS. Melt four tablespoons 
butter, add five tablespoons flour, mixed with one-fourth teaspoon salt 
and one-eighth teaspoon pepper. Pour on gradually one and three-fourths 
cups milk. When sauce thickens, add one and one-half cups cold boiled 
fowl, cut in dice, and two-thirds cup left-over peas. Cook for about two 
minutes. 

CHICKEN WITH TOMATOES. Cook four tablespoons butter, 
with one-quarter of a small onion, finely chopped, five minutes. Add five 
tablespoons flour, and stir until slightly browned. Pour on, gradually, 
three-fourths cup each chicken stock and stewed and strained tomatoes. 
Add one teaspoon lemon juice, one-half teaspoon salt, and one-eighth 
teaspoon paprika. Add one and one-half cups cold boiled fowl, cut in 
cubes. Cook for about two minutes. ' 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. Make a white sauce. Chop chicken 
fine and season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of onion juice. Put 
into hot sauce all the seasoned chicken it will take up, about two cups of 
chicken to one of sauce. Cool. Shape into croquettes; roll in bread 
crumbs, then in tgg (which has been slightly beaten together with one 
tablespoonful.of cold water), then in crumbs again. Fry in smoking 
hot deep fat, and serve with white sauce. Veal or fresh pork may be used 
in same way. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD. When boiling a fowl for salad or other 
purposes, take a pint of the broth. Season as needed with salt and a little 
pepper. Heat and pour very slowly over two eggs that have been slightly 
beaten. Cook in a double boiler until the mixture thickens. Pour into 
small cups that have been rinsed with cold water, and set away to chill. 
This makes a good relish for mvalids. 

SCALLOP OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY WITH CELERY. 

Cook one cup of celery, cut in inch pieces, in boiling slightly salted water 
until tender. Save the water to make sauce. Slice thin two cups of cold 
chicken, discarding all skin; season with salt and pepper, and moisten 
with a little left-over gravy. Melt two tablespoons of butter, stir in two 
tablespoons of flour, and, when bubbling, add slowly one cup of celery 
water, one-half cup of milk, one-quarter teaspoon of salt, and a little 
pepper. When thickened and smooth, stir in the cooked celery. Put a 
few buttered crumbs in a baking dish and arrange the chicken and sauce 
in alternate layers. Cover with buttered crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. 

CHICKEN OR TURKEY TIMBALE. When no more slices 
can be cut from a cooked chicken or turkey, take the bits near the bones, 
chop fine, and to two cups of such meat allow one cup of soft white 
bread crumbs and one-half cup of hot milk. Mix the crumbs and hot 
milk together ; then add the chopped meat and yolks of two eggs. Sea- 
son with one teaspoonful of salt and one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper. 
Beat the whites slightly — they must not be frothy — and mix them well in. 
Tutn the mixtures into a buttered pan or mould ; set in a pan of hot water 
and cook in a moderate oven about one hour. Carefully unmould on a 
hot platter, and serve. 



CHICKEN OR TURKEY HASH. 

Ij4 cups cold chopped % cup boiled potato 

chicken Vz to Yz ^'^'P chicken gravy 

Cut potatoes in small pieces. Mix together, season highly, and 
moisten with the chicken gravy. Butter a baking dish; put in the mix- 
ture, covering the top with buttered crumbs. Bake for about fifteen 
minutes in a hot oven. 

TURKEY WARMED OVER. Pieces of cold turkey or chicken 
may be warmed up with a little butter in a frying pan. Place it on a 
warm platter, surround it with pieces of small thick slices of bread, first 
dipping them in hot salted water ; then place the platter in a warm oven 
with the door open. Have ready the following gravy to pour over all: 
Into the frying pan put a large spoonful of butter, one or two cupfuls of 
milk, and any gravy that may be left over. Bring it to a boil ; then add 
sufficient flour, wet in a little cold milk or water, to make it the consist- 
ency of cream. Season with salt, pepper, and add a little of the dark 
meat chopped fine. Let the sauce cook a few moments ; then pour over 
the turkey. 



LEFT-OVER FISH 

Any left-over fish can be used for creamed dishes, croquettes, fish, 
pudding and scalloped dishes. 

CREAMED FISH. Pick the fish into small pieces and heat in 
milk. Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add one tablespoonful of flour, 
and pour on gradually one cup hot milk. Stir until it thickens slightly. 
Add fish and cook gently for one minute. Turn on a hot platter and 
garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve with baked potatoes. 

CREAMED CODFISH. Pick the cooked fish into small pieces. 
Make one pint white sauce (see Sauces). Grease a baking dish, fill with 
alternate layers of fish and sauce, seasoning with salt, pepper, chopped 
parsley and lemon juice or a few drops of vinegar. Mix together one 
cup dry breadcrumbs and three tablespoonfuls melted butter ; spread over 
top and brown in quick oven. 

This may be varied by using tomato. Bechamel, curry or any other 
sauce, or by adding grated cheese or sliced hard-boiled eggs to the white 
sauce; by baking in shells or patty-pans in place of the deep dish, or by 
covering with mashed potato or biscuit crust instead of crumbs. 

CURRIED COD. Two slices large cod, or remains of any cod- 
fish, three ounces butter, one onion sliced, a teacup of white stock or 
water, thickening of butter and flour, one tablespoonful of curry powder, 
one-quarter pint of milk or cream, salt and cayenne to taste. Flake the 
fish, and fry to a nice brown color with the butter and onions ; put this 
in a stewpan, add the stock and thickening, simmer for ten minutes. Stir 
the curry powder into the cream ; put it with the seasoning into the other 
ingredients ; let it come to the boil and serve. Sufficient for four persons. 



17 

FISH BALLS. Take any left-over fish, put it in your chopping 
tray, being careful that there are no bones in it ; chop fine. Pare and boil 
potatoes enough to have twice the quantity of potatoes that you have of 
fish. When cooked turn them into the tray with the fish, mash fine, 
and make into balls about the size of an egg. Flour the outside lightly; 
have the fat boiling hot, and fry a light brown. The fat should be half 
lard and half salt pork. Have the slices of pork a nice brown, and serve 
with the fish balls. 

DROPPED FISH BALLS. One-half pint of raw fish, one heap- 
ing pint, of pared potatoes (let the potatoes be under medium size), two 
eggs, butter the size of an egg, and a little pepper. Cut the fish in half- 
inch slices across the grain, and measure it lightly. Put the potatoes 
into the boiler and the fish on top of them ; then cover with boiling water 
and boil half an hour, or until tender. Drain off all the water and mash 
fish and potatoes together until fine and light. Then add the butter and 
pepper and the eggs, well beaten. Have a deep kettle of boiling fat. Dip 
a tablespoon in it and then take up a spoonful of the mixture, having care 
to get it into as good shape as possible. Drop into the boiling fat and 
cook until brown, which should be in two minutes. Be careful not to 
crowd the balls, and also that the fat is hot enough. The spoon should be 
dipped in the fat every time you take a spoonful of the mixture. These 
balls are delicious. Salt fish can also be used to make these. 

FISH CROQUETTES, No. 1. Put one large tablespoonful oi 
butter in a saucepan. Let it bubble, then put in a little onion cut in small 
pieces, then a large spoonful of flour and some salt and pepper ; then put 
in your fish and beat it up, then put the yolk of an egg in and beat it up. 
Put away to cool. When cool form into cone shape and roll in cracker 
crumbs again and fry in hot fat. 

FISH CROQUETTES, No. 3. 

2 cups cold cooked fish Lemon juice and onion juice 
Salt and pepper 1 cup croquette sauce 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Mix all ingredients; add more lemon juice if needed. Shape, dip 
in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

One cup tomato may be substituted for the one cup milk or stock 
in croquette sauce. 

SAUCE FOR CROQUETTE MIXTURES. 

3 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper 
5 tablespoons flour Celery salt 

1 cup stock or milk Lemon juice 

Few drops onion juice. 

Melt butter ; add flour, seasonings and milk. Cook until thick. This 
sauce is suflficient to thicken two cups of meat, for all kinds of croquettes. 
It may be varied by adding two egg yolks or one egg. 

FISH HASH. Prepare the fish as for fish balls; chop fine cold 
potatoes, and mix with the fish. Fry brown six good slices of salt pork ; 
take out the pork and turn the hash into the frying pan ; add half a cup 



18 

of boiling water ; let this heat slowly, stirring often ; then spread smoothly, 
and brown, being careful not to let it burn. When brown, fold it as you 
would an omelet and garnish the dish with the slices of pork. When the 
pork is objected to, butter can be used instead. 

FISH WITH TOMATO SAUCE. One cup tomatoes, one-half 
cup water, one-half of an onion sliced. Cook tomatoes, water and onion 
twenty minutes. Melt one tablespoonful of butter and add one table- 
spoonful of flour, stir into hot mixture, add one-half teaspoonful salt and 
one-eighth teaspoonful pepper, cook until it thickens and strain. Put fish 
in a baking dish and pour the tomato sauce around it. Bake from fifteen 
to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

FISH WITH GREEN PEPPER. One and three-quarters cups 
cold cooked fish, one cup white sauce, one-half small green pepper, one- 
half slice onion or flavor to taste with extract onion. Salt and pepper. 

Cut a slice from stem end of pepper, remove every seed and parboil 
pepper fifteen minutes. Make a white sauce with one cup milk, two 
tablespoon fuls butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, bit of bay leaf, sprig of 
parsley, salt and pepper to taste, scalding the milk with the parsley and 
bay leaf, cook the onion finely chopped in the butter three minutes, or 
flavor with onion extract to taste; add the flour when well mingled, the 
milk, salt and pepper ; when thickened and smooth add the fish broken into 
flakes and the green pepper cut into narrow strips ; heat thoroughly, and 
serve with brown bread sandwiches. 

This is easily prepared in chafing-dish, having the green pepper 
previously cooked. 

FISH PUDDING. 1 lb. or pint boiled halibut, half cupful of 
cream or milk, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of butter, half table- 
spoonful of flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls salt, quarter teaspoonful 
pepper, half teaspoonful onion juice, two eggs. 

Pound the fish in a mortar until it is thoroughly mashed, then rub 
it through a sieve; season the fish pulp with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Put the butter into saucepan; when melted add the flour and 
cook for a few minutes ; then add slowly the cream or milk, stirring con- 
stantly until well scalded ; then add the fish pulp, take from the fire, add 
the beaten eggs, and mix thoroughly. 

Butter well a mould holding a pint or little more; put in the mix- 
ture, pressing it well against the sides to remove any air bubbles. Cover 
the mold with a greased paper, and set in a pan of warm water covering 
one-half the mould. Place in moderate oven for thirty minutes, and 
do not let the water boil. 

FISH TOAST. One cup flaked cold fish, free from skin and 
bones. Heat in water sufficient to moisten; add butter, pepper and salt. 
When hot pour on slices of' buttered toast ; garnish with eggs poached 
in muffin rings. 

SALMON LOAF. 

Yi cup salmon, fresh or Yt, cup milk 

canned Yi teaspoon lemon juice 

Y2 cup stale bread crumbs Y^ teaspoon onion juice 

1 beaten egg Salt and pepper to taste 



19 

Mix all the above togetlier ; put in a buttered baking dish or any 
buttered tins or custard cups and bake in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. 

SALMON AND RICE, Form freshly boiled rice into flat cakes, 
brown slightly in butter on both sides and place on a warmed platter. 
Warm salmon that has been left over and spread over the rice. Over 
this pour a white sauce into which has been stirred the whites of two 
hard boiled eggs cut in dice. Garnish with the yolks cut in slices. 

SCALLOPED FISH. Two cups cold fish (cod, haddock or 
halibut), one and one-half cups milk, one slice onion, blade of mace, bit 
of bay leaf, three tablespoon fuls butter, three tablespoon fuls flour, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful pepper, one-half cup but- 
tered crumbs. 

Scald the milk with onion, mace and bay leaf. Remove seasonings. 
Melt the butter, add flour, salt and pepper, then gradually the milk. Boil 
three minutes. Put one-half the fish in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and pour over one-half the sauce. Repeat, cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are brown in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED HALIBUT. Shred one cupful of cold boiled 
halibut ; pour in the food pan one and one-half cups milk and let come to 
a boil; add butter size of an egg, salt and pepper, then the crumbs of 
four crackers, add lastly the halibut; let it cook five minutes, then add 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and serve on a hot platter with bits of 
buttered toast. 



LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES 

Any left-over vegetables rhay be used for flavoring soup; also for 
making creamed soups, scalloped dishes, and hash. 

A number of vegetables may be mixed together and used for a salad. 

Peas, tomatoes, or beans may be put in an omelette. . 

Vegetables are not hurt by reheating. 

The coarse stalks and roots of celery make a good vegetable dish 
when cut in pieces and boiled and served with a cream sauce. They also 
make a good cream of celery soup. 

The leaves of celery are valuable in the soup pot for flavoring. Any 
left over celery leaves can be dried out in a lukewarm oven, put into a glass 
jar, and kept for flavoring soups, sauces, etc. 

Any left-over parsley can be dried. out in the same manner and used 
for the same purpose. 

Limp lettuce leaves may be shredded with a scissors and used in 
any salad. 

STUFFED POTATOES. Baked potatoes that are left over 
must be made into stuffed potatoes before they are heavy and cold. At 
the close of the meal at which they were first served, cut the potatoes 
directly into halves, scoop out the inside portion, put it through an 



20 

ordinary vegetable press, or mash it fine ; add a little butter, salt, pepper 
and sufficient milk to make a light mixture; stand this over hot water 
and beat until light and smooth. Put it back into the shells, and stand 
them aside in a cold place. When ready to serve, brush the top with 
beaten egg and run them into a quick oven until hot and golden brown. 

POTATO CUSTARDS. Stir two cups of cold mashed potatoes, 
with four tablespoons of milk, over the fire until they are warm and 
light ; take from the fire and add three eggs beaten light with four table- 
spoons of sugar. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla and stir in carefully a 
pint and a half of milk. Put this mixture into greased custard cups; 
stand in a baking pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven until 
set, about twenty or thirty minutes. 

Where a little cooked meat and, at the same time, mashed potatoes, 
are left over, the meat may be seasoned with a savory sauce and turned 
into a baking dish ; the mashed potatoes slightly thinned with hot milk and 
then slightly thickened with flour, can be used as a crust. This makes 
what is called a potato pie. Four tablespoons of milk and four of flour 
would be a good allowance to each cupful of mashed potatoes. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice ; 
to each pint of potatoes allow a half pint of cream sauce. Put a layer 
of the sauce in the bottom of a baking dish, put in the potatoes, season 
with salt and pepper, cover with another layer of cream sauce, dust 
the top with bread crumbs, dot here and there little bits of butter, and 
bake in a moderate oven until a golden brown. 

POTATOES au GRATIN. To each four good-sized cold pota- 
toes chopped fine allow a pint of cream sauce, to which you have 
added four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; mix the potatoes with the 
sauce, turn them into a baking dish, dust with cheese, and brown in 
a quick oven. 

BROILED POTATOES. Cut cold boiled potatoes into thin 
slices lengthwise ; dip each slice in a little melted butter, dust it with 
salt and pepper, and broil it over a clear fire until a golden brown. 
For dyspeptics it is better to broil the potato first and add the butter 
after, as the heating of the butter renders it indigestible. Sweet po- 
tatoes may be broiled after this same rule, and would be less greasy 
than when fried. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. Cold mashed potatoes may be made 
into croquettes by adding to each pint four tablespoonfuls of heated 
milk, the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a tea- 
spoonful of grated onion, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper; stir 
over the fire until the mixture is thoroughly heated ; form into cylinder- 
shaped croquettes, dip in egg and rolled bread cTumbs and fry in 
smoking hot deep fat. 

VEGETABLE BROWNED HASH. Chop two or three cold 
boiled potatoes rather fine, and an equal quantity of chopped carrot, 
and either string beans or peas, whichever you happen to have left 
over. You can add to this a cupful of stewed cabbage. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter into a shallow frying pan, mix the vegetables, put 



21 

them into the butter, let them stand over a slow fire until they are 
browned thoroughly and crusted in the bottom. Fold one-half care- 
fully over the other, and press the two halves together; cook just a 
moment longer, and turn out on to a heated platter. This is a nice 
dish to serve with omelet and tomato sauce for luncheon or supper. 

CURRIED VEGETABLES. Have previously prepared one cup 
boiled potato, cut in dice, one cup boiled carrots, cut in dice, one-half cup 
boiled turnips, cut in dice, and one-half cup left-over peas. Cook two 
slices onion in three tablespoons butter five minutes. Remove onion, and 
add three tablespoons flour, one teaspoon curry powder, one teaspoon 
salt, one-fourth teaspoon celery salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, and 
one and one-half cups milk. Stir until smooth, then reheat vegetables in 
sauce. 

LEFT-OVER TOMATOES. A half cup of stewed tomatoes 
may be used with stock for brown tomato sauce, or for making a small 
dish of scalloped tomatoes, helping out at lunch when perhaps the family 
is less in number. The Italians boil down .this half cup of tomatoes until 
it has the consistency of dough ; then press through a sieve, add a little 
salt, pack down into a jelly tumbler and stand in the refrigerator to use 
as flavoring. A tablespoonful in a soup, or in an ordinary sauce, or mixed 
with the water for baked beans, or added to the stock sauce for spaghetti 
or macaroni, adds greatly to the flavor as well as appearance. 

TOMATO PASTE. When tomatoes are very plentiful and the 
supply is greater than the immediate need, it is a good plan to make a 
paste, which will keep for some time in a cool place. Wash and scald 
tomatoes. Strain through a fine sieve, and boil until thick. Put in glass 
jars. This will be found very useful in flavoring soups and sauces. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. Take any left-over tomatoes and 
mix with it either pieces of stale bread, left-over macaroni or spaghetti. 
Fill a baking dish with the mixture, season to taste, spread buttered 
crumbs over the top and bake in a moderate oven until the crumbs are 
brown. 

SPINACH WITH BAKED EGGS. Form any cold, well-sea- 
soned spinach' into a neat border on buttered toast. A full tablespoonful 
will answer for each piece of toast. Break an egg in the center of each 
mound. Season, sprinkle very lightly with buttered crumbs. Bake in the 
oven until the eggs are " set." 

CARROT CROQUETTES. 

1 cup cooked carrots 1 cup white sauce 

1 cup cooked peas- 1 egg 

Salt and pepper. 

Press carrots and peas through a sieve. Add seasoning, unbeaten 
egg, white sauce ; set away to chill. Form into croquettes, roll in crumbs 
and egg, and fry in smoking-hot deep fat. 



22 

BEETS PRINCESS. 

1 tablespoon butter. Yt. cup water 

2 tablespoons vinegar. 

Combine these in the order given and bring to a boil. Then add 
one teaspoon cornstarch moistened with cold water. Cook until clear. 
This makes a transparent sauce for warmed over beets. 

CREAMED BEETS. Any left-over beets that have been served 
with butter and no vinegar may be creamed. Chop them coarse, and to 
each cup of beets allow one cup of white sauce. 

PARSNIP CAKES. Use left-over boiled buttered parsnips for 
making these cakes. Mash, and season with salt and pepper, make into 
flat, round cakes, dip in flour, and fry in hot melted beef-dripping or 
butter. 

CELERY TOAST. Take the outer and less tender stalks of 
celery that are often thrown away, cut them into one-half inch pieces 
and cook in slightly salted water until tender. Drain and use one-half 
cup of this water and one-half cup of milk to make a white sauce. Add 
the celery to the sauce and pour over slices of nicely browned and but- 
tered toast. Serve very hot. 

CREAMED SOUPS FROM LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES. 

Take the vegetables and press through a sieve. To a pint of vegetable 
pulp add a quart of stock or water. Thicken with one tablespoon of 
butter and two tablespoons of flour rubbed together until smooth. Season 
with butter and salt. Remove from the stove and add one- cup of milk. 
Then strain again, so that it will be perfectly smooth. 



LEFT-OVER EGGS 

Save your egg shells and use them to clear soups, coffee and jelly. 

Dry out the egg shells ; then crush them and keep them in a covered 
glass jar until ready to be used. 

Any left-over poached or soft-cooked eggs may be returned to the 
hot water and cooked until hard. They can then be chopped and used 
with left-over meat or fish dishes. 

Any left-over fried eggs, pieces of omelet or scrambled eggs will 
improve a meat hash. 

When only the yolk of the egg is used, the white can be kept in a 
cup or glass, covered with a damp cloth, fastened with an elastic band ; 
or, if only the white is used, the yolk can be kept in the same way. The 
whites of eggs may be used for apple float and for meringue for puddings 
or pies. The yolks of eggs may be used for scrambled eggs, custard, and 
omelet. 

EGG CROQUETTES. Put five hard-boiled eggs through a 
vegetable press, or chopper. Put one tablespoonful of butter and two of 
flour into a saucepan, add a half pint of milk, stir until boiling, add a half 



23 

cup of stale, unbrowned bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a dash of pepper and a half teaspoonful 
of onion juice; add the eggs, mix and turn out to cool. When cold 
form into cutlets, dip in egg and then in bread crumbs and fry in smoking 
hot deep fat. Serve with plain cream sauce. These with peas make an 
exceedingly nice dish. 

COLD BACON AND EGGS. An economical way of using bacon 
and eggs that have been left from a previous meal is to put them in a 
wooden bowl and chop them quite fine, adding a little mashed or cold 
chopped potato, and a little bacon fat, if any is left. Mix and mould 
into little balls, roll in raw egg and cracker or bread crumbs, and fry 
in a frying pan ; fry a light brown on both sides. Serve hot. This makes 
a very appetizing dish. 

FLOATING ISLAND (using up whites of eggs). Beat Up 
whites of eggs until stiff; gradually beat in a very little powdered sugar 
and drop large spoonfuls in hot milk in frying pan. Dip milk over egg, 
that it may cook slightly. Take up in a skimmer and drain. Serve on 
soft custard with a bit of jelly on top of each spoonful. 

APPLE FLOAT. To each cup of left-over apple sauce add the 
well-beaten white of one egg. The "whites must be beaten until perfectly 
stifif and dry. Then whip apple sauce and egg together with an egg 
whisk until thoroughly mixed. Serve ice cold. 

MERINGUE. One-half tablespoon powdered sugar to each 
white of egg. Beat the whites till frothy, add the powdered sugar 
gradually and continue beating. When stiff enough to hold its shape, 
heap the meringue over the pudding. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS (using up yolks of eggs). 
3 yolks 

Dash cayenne 1 large tablespoon bacon, (cut in 

Dried bread or toast . bits) 

^ cup milk 
}i tablespoon butter 

Prepare crisp dry toast, or use oven-dried slices of bread if on hand. 
Beat eggs slightly, add milk and bacon. Melt butter in hot omelet pan ; 
add the egg mixture, and cook lightly, holding pan up from intense heat. 
Have hot milk ready in saucepan, dip slices of bread or toast quickly in it, 
put on hot platter, and pour scrambled eggs over all. 

SOFT CUSTARD. 

1 pint milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

3 yolks of eggs J4 teaspoon vanilla or 

Few grains salt A piece of lemon rind 

Scald milk with lemon rind, beat yolks, sugar and salt together. 
Combine by pouring hot milk gradually on yolks and sugar, stirring mean- 
while. Strain mixture into double boiler and cook until thickened 
slightly. Remove at once from double boiler and cool. If vanilla flavor- 
ing is preferred, add when custard is cold, and omit the lemon rind. 



24 

LEFT-OVER CEREALS 

Cereals are improved by long cooking. Therefore, oatmeal, 
hominy, and other cereals which are left over can be added next day 
to the fresh cooked cereal. 

Left-over cereal may be moulded cold with fruit or it may be used 
in making pancakes, mufHns and puddings, and also to make gruels 
for invalids. 

Cold hominy and mush may be cut into squares and fried so that 
a crisp crust is formed on both sides. This makes an excellent vege- 
table or breakfast dish. 

Cold hominy or farina may be rolled into balls and fried and used 
in the same way. 

Cold rice may be a'dded to soup, made into croquettes,. used in a 
scalloped dish, or it may be mixed with minced meat and egg and 
fried like an omelet. 

CEREALS. Cold boiled rice left over may be mixed with a small 
quantity of meat, and used for stuffing tomatoes or egg plant; or it 
may be re-heated or made into pudding, or added to the muffins for 
lunch, or added to the cornbread. 

A cup of left-over oatmeal or cracked wheat or wheatlet may also be 
added to the muffins or ordinary yeast or corn breads. These little addi- 
tions increase the food value, make the mixture lighter, and save waste. 

A few spoonfuls of left-over rice, hominy, macaroni, or potato mixed 
with a little chopped meat or fish and a few spoonfuls of gravy or white 
sauce to moisten it may be put in a baking dish, covered with bread 
crumbs, and baked in the oven. 

RICE MUFFINS No. 1. Separate two eggs; add to the yolks 
one cup of milk and a cup and a half of white flour ; beat thoroughly, 
add a half teaspoonful of salt, a rounded teaspoonful of baking powder 
and one cup of cold boiled rice; stir in the well-beaten whites, and bake 
in gem pans in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

RICE MUFFINS No. 2. 
2j4 cups flour 1 cup milk 

^ cup hot cooked rice 1 egg 

4 level teaspoons baking 2 tablespoons melted butter 

powder j4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking powder; add one-half 
milk, egg well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with rice, and 
beat thoroughly; then add butter. Bake in buttered muffin rings 
placed in buttered pan, or bake in buttered gem pans. 

FARINA GEMS. 

2 eggs 1 cupful of flour 

1 cupful of milk 4 level teaspoons of baking powder 

1 cupful cold boiled farina j4 teaspoonful of salt 



25 

Separate the eggs, add the milk and stir this, gradually, into the cold 
farina. When smooth add the salt, baking powder and flour, mixed. 
Beat, and then add the well-beaten whites of eggs. Bake in gem pans ir. 
a quick oven a half hour. 

TO FRESHEN UP RICE OR BREAD PUDDINGS. Remove 
crust from yesterday's pudding and turn the pudding into smaller dish. 
Add hot milk and (to a bread pudding) fresh crumbs for top, dotted over 
with butter. Bake again. Rice pudding may be reheated with hot milk, 
or if to be served cold, covered with a meringue flavored with lemon 
juice and browned. 

RICE CROQUETTES. To make cold boiled rice into croquettes, 
the rice must be reheated in a double boiler with a gill of milk and the 
yolk of an egg to each cup; you may season with sugar and lemon or 
salt and pepper, and serve as a vegetable. Form into cylinder-shaped 
croquettes ; dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

SIMPLE RICE PUDDING. Put into a double boiler one quart 
of milk ; allow it to cook for thirty minutes ; then add two tablespoonf uls 
of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and one cup of cold boiled rice ; turn this 
into a baking pan, and bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. Serve cold. 
Raisins may be added when it is put into the baking pan. 

PLAIN FARINA PUDDING. 

2 cups of milk 1 cup left-over farina or cream of 

lj4 cups of sugar wheat 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon of vanilla 

Put the milk in a double boikr, add the sugar and the cold left-over 
farina. Stir until thoroughly hot, then add the eggs, well beaten, and the 
vanilla. Turn into a baking dish and put in the oven until brown. Serve 
cold, with milk or cream. 

APPLE FARINA PUDDING. Pour the left-over breakfast por- 
ridge into a square mould and stand it aside. At luncheon or dinner time 
cut this into thin slices, cover the bottom of a baking dish with these 
slices, and cover these with sliced apples, and so continue until you have 
the ingredients used, having the last layer apples. Beat an egg, without 
separating, until light, add a half cupful of milk and a saltspoonful of 
salt, then stir in a half cupful of flour. When smooth pour this over the 
apples and bake in a quick oven a half hour. Serve with milk or with 
hard sauce. 

OATMEAL OR HOMINY MUFFINS. 

1 cup cooked oatmeal or 4 teaspoons baking powder 

cooked hominy J^ teaspoon salt 

\y2 cups flour J4 cup of milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 &gg 

2 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking powder ; add one-half of the 
milk, the tgg well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with oatmeal 
or hominy, and beat thoroughly; then add butter. Bake in buttered 
mufifin rings placed in buttered pan or bake in buttered gem pans. 



26 

CORNBREAD. 

1 cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon melted beef dripping 

Yz cup flour J^ teaspoon soda 

1 well-beaten egg 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup sour milk J4 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve soda in hot water; put with sour milk. Sift and mix dry 
materials ; add ^gg, milk and dripping. Bake in muffin tins thirty minutes. 

CEREAL MOULDED WITH FRUIT. Take cream of wheat or 
wheatina left from breakfast. If very stiff, add a little milk or water and 
stir into it a few scalded cut-up dates or figs. Pour into a mould and 
serve cold as a dessert with sugar and cream. 

CEREAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

1 cup sweet milk 1 cup cooked cereal 

1 cup flour 1 t.gg 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt 

Beat the tgg and cooked cereal together until light and smooth and 
stir in the milk. Sift the flour and salt together and add to the cereal 
mixture. When ready to bake the cakes, stir in the baking powder and 
beat the batter vigorously. 

SHREDDED WHEAT GRUEL. 

2 shredded wheat biscuits 1 quart boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups milk 

Cook biscuit, salt and water together for 20 minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. Then add the milk and strain. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. Boil two-thirds of a cup of well-cooked 
oatmeal in one cup of boiling water fifteen minutes. Add an equal amount 
of milk, a few grains of salt, and a grating of nutmeg. It may be served 
strained or unstrained. 

STALE BREAD 

Small bits of stale bread may be slowly dried in the oven until crisp 
and brittle, then ground in a meat chopper or rolled. These bread crumbs 
should be kept in a covered glass jar and may be used for frying cro- 
quettes, etc. 

Larger pieces of stale bread may be eaten with soup in place of 
crackers, or used to make croutons for soup (croutons are little squares 
of bread fried in fat. They are usually served with pea, bean and creamed 
soups). 

Small pieces and broken slices of stale bread may be used for stuffing, 
for griddle cakes, bread omelet and puddings. 

BREAD MUFFINS. Cover a quart of bits of bread that have 
been broken apart, with one pint of milk ; soak for fifteen minutes, then 
with a spoon beat until you have a smooth paste ; add the yolks of three 
eggs, a tablespoonful of melted butter and one cup of flour that has been 
sifted with a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix in carefully 



27 

the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in muffin pans in a quick 
oven about twenty minutes. 

BREAD CROQUETTES. Hub sufficient stale bread to make 
one quart of crumbs ; add four tablespoons of sugar, a half cup of cleaned 
currants, or any fruit that you have left over, and a grating of nutmeg; 
sprinkle a teaspoonful of vanilla over this and add sufficient beaten eggs 
(about three) to moisten the crumbs. Form into small cylinder-shaped 
croquettes, dip in tgg and roll in bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot 
deep fat. Serve hot with sugar syrup. 

BREAD OMELET. 

3 eggs ^2 cup of bread crumbs 

J4 teaspoon salt ^ cup of milk 

1 dash of black pepper Piece of butter size of walnut 

Beat the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the milk, salt, pepper and 
the bread crumbs. Now stir into this, carefully, the beaten whites ; mix 
very lightly. Put the butter in a very smooth frying-pan ; as soon as hot 
turn in the mixture gently, and set it over a clear fire, being very careful 
not to burn ; shake occasionally to see that the omelet does not stick. Now 
stand your frying-pan in the oven for a moment to set the mjddle of the 
omelet. When done, toss it over on a warm platter to bring the brown 
side of the omelet uppermost ; or, it may be folded in half and then turned 
out in the center of the platter. Serve immediately or it will fall. 

BREAD CEREAL. Dry bread in the oven until crisp and brown. 
Roll on board, or put through meat grinder, having crumbs coarse. 
Serve warm as a breakfast food with cream. 

BREAD STICKS. Remove crusts from any slices of stale bread 
and' cut in strips about five inches long and one-half inch wide. Roll 
in melted butter and brown delicately in the oven, or fry in smoking 
hot deep fat without rolling in butter. These can be served with 
cheese instead of crackers. 

CHEESE BOXES. Cut stale bread in slices one-third of an inch 
thick, remove crusts, and cut slices in pieces three by one and one-half 
inches. Remove centres, leaving bread in box-shaped pieces. Fit in 
each box a thin slice of mild cheese, sprinkle with salt and paprika, 
and cover with a thin piece of the bread which was removed with the 
centre. Fry in a hot saucepan, using enough butter to prevent burning. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

3 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 

2 cupfuls bread crumbs 1 quart milk 
j4 teaspoon cinnamon }4 teaspoon salt 
J^ cup raisins Little nutmeg 

Scald milk. Add butter and bread crumbs. Beat eggs light and 
add with salt and spice to bread mixture. Bake in moderate oven about 
an hour. 

BROWN BETTY. Place alternate layers of chopped apples and 
stale bread crumbs in buttered baking dish, having crumbs on bottom. 



28 

Add cinnamon and sugar to each layer of apples, using more sugar 
if apples are sour. The top layer should be buttered bread crumbs. 
Bake in moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES (with sour milk). Use equal quan- 
tities of sour milk and small broken pieces of bread. Mix and let 
stand, covered, over-night. When ready to use, put through colander. 
For each pint of mixture use one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, J4 teaspoon salt and about ^ of a cup of sifted 
flour. It is always well to bake a small cake first, that any lack in 
ingredients may be remedied at once. An extra yolk or small amount 
of uncooked egg may be added if at hand. Bake on hot griddle. 

FRIED BREAD. To an egg, well beaten, add one cup of milk, 
or a little water. Dip pieces of stale bread in this and then fry them 
in butter or dripping. 

STALE CAKE 

STALE CAKE WITH CUSTARD. Moisten with lemon juice 
enough stale cake to cover the bottom of a glass dish holding a quart. 
Make a soft" custard by scalding two cups of milk and pouring it slowly 
upon two beaten egg yolks, mixed with three tablespoons of sugar, one 
teaspoon of butter, and a little salt. Cook in a double boiler until 
thickened. Strain and when partly cool add one-half teaspoon of vanilla, 
and pour over the cake. When ready to serve, beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, adding one tablespoon of sugar and a little lemon juice while 
beating. Drop lightly, by spoonfuls, on top of the custard and put a few 
bits of jelly on the meringue. 

TRIFLE. Cut stale cake into slices and spread preserves be- 
tween them. Lay in a deep dish and spread over with meringue or 
whipped cream. 

CHEESE 

All the little dried pieces of cheese should be grated and put in a 
covered glass jar. These cheese crumbs are excellent for many made- 
over dishes and are particularly good with starchy foods, such as 
potatoes, macaroni, etc. 

Very tasty crackers can be made by spreading this grated cheese on 
crackers, seasoning them, and then putting them in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

SOUR MILK OR CREAM 

No sour milk or cream should be wasted. Put it into an earthen or 
glass jar, little by little, until you have half a cup or a cupful. As soon 
as it thickens use it for cottage cheese, griddle cakes, biscuits, combread 
or gingerbread. 

Sour cream may also be used for filling for cake. 



29 

COTTAGE CHEESE. Place a panful of milk which has soured 
enough to become thick, or clabbered, over a pan of hot water. Let it 
heat slowly until the whey has separated from the curd ; do not let it boil, 
or the curd will become tough; then strain it through a cloth and press 
out all the whey ; stir into the curd enough butter, cream, and salt to make 
it a little moist and of good flavor. Work it well into a spoon until it 
becomes fine grained and consistent, then mould it into balls of any size 
desired. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES. 

1 cup thick sour milk % cup flour 

y^ cup cooked cereal 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 ^gg }i teaspoonful salt 

Beat sour milk, cereal and egg well together. Sift flour and salt and 
add them. When ready to bake the cakes, add the soda and beat the 
batter vigorously. It should look like thick cream. If too thin, add a 
little more flour; if too thick add more sour milk or a little water. 

EMERGENCY BISCUITS. 

2 cupfuls flour 1 cup thick sour milk 
1 tablespoonful butter 1 teaspoonful salt 

j4 teaspoonful soda 
Sift flour, salt and soda well together. Rub in the butter with a 
spoon. Add the milk and stir lightly. The dough should be soft. Drop 
by spoonfuls into greased mufifin tins and bake in a hot oven about twenty 
minutes. 

SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD, No. 1. 

1 egg 2 teaspoons soda 
J4 cup molasses 3 teaspoons ginger 

j4 cup sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

% cup sour cream J^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients three times. Reat egg, add cream, 
molasses and remaining ingredients, and beat until smooth. Pour into 
■buttered pan and bake in moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. 

SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD, No. 3. 

2 tablespoons melted butter y cupful sour milk 

j4 cupful molasses 1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 egg 2 cupfuls flour 

1 tablespoon ginger 
Mix molasses, sour milk and beaten egg well together and add the 
ginger, salt and flour. Dissolve the soda in a very little hot water and add 
it. Beat in the melted butter at the last. Bake in a shallow pan or 
mufifin tins in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR CAKES, No. 1. Sweeten and 
chill a cupful of sour cream. Whip it, keeping it cold while doing so. 
When stiff add a cup of chopped nuts. If cream does not become stiff, 
add one teaspoonful of melted gelatine at the last and set on ice. This 
makes an excellent filling for layer cakes. 



30 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR CAKES, No. 2. Follow direc- 
tions for No. 1, using equal quantities of sour cream, chopped nuts and 
raisins. Add a little lemon- juice and powdered sugar. 

FRUIT 

Any fresh fruit that has become soft should be cooked at once with 
a little sugar added, to make a sauce, or it can be made into jelly. 

Any left-over canned fruit may be rubbed through a sieve and used 
for a sauce. It may be put into ice cream or moulded into a cornstarch 
or rice mixture. 

Apple parings and cores should be stewed to a pulp and then strained. 
This will make a jelly, which, spread on apple tart, will greatly improve 
it. It can also be used for flavoring tapioca pudding. 

Orange peel and lemon peel may be used for flavoring sauces and 
stewed fruits. They can be dried and kept in a glass covered jar until 
used. 

FRUIT SAUCE (made from fresh fruit that is slightly softened). 

Cook the fruit with a little sugar until the juice flows freely. Then beat 
some powdered sugar, the fruit juice and pieces of fruit together. Whip 
the white of an egg very light, and add to the beaten fruit and sugar, 
or add fruit gradually to the unbeaten egg white and beat for some 
minutes. 

APRICOT, PEAR OR PEACH SAUCE (from left-over canned 
fruit). Beat some powdered sugar, fruit juice and the pieces of left- 
over canned fruit together. Add fruit gradually to an unbeaten egg white 
and beat some minutes ; or whip the white of egg very light and add to 
beaten fruit and sugar. Sauce made in the first way will last longer. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

1 pint of milk 1 well-beaten egg 
4 tablespoons cornstarch % teaspoon salt 

mixed with a little cold yi cup chopped cooked, peaches, 
water apricots or pears 

j4 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald milk ; then stir in cornstarch mixed with a little cold water, and 
cook five minutes in double boiler. Place upper part of double boiler 
on fire, let corn-starch boil, return boiler to place, add sugar, egg and 
salt beaten together, and cook two minutes, stirring continually. Flavor 
with vanilla, add fruit, and pour into mould. Chill and serve with sugar 
and cream. An excellent way of using up small amounts of canned 
fruits. 

SAUCES 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter J/$ teaspoon salt 

% teaspoon white pepper 

Mix flour and butter together until no flour can be seen. Add milk 
slowly and stir over moderate fire until it thickens. Remove from the 
fire and add salt and pepper. 



31 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

J4 can tomatoes 1 clove 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 bay leaf 2 tablespoons butter 

Cook tomatoes, onion, bay leaf and clove together for ten minutes ; 
strain. Rub flour and butter together until smooth and add strained 
tomatoes. Cook over moderate fire until the sauce thickens. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup brown stock 
y2 slice onion J4 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour J^ teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion in butter until slightly browned; remove onion and stir 
butter constantly until well browned; add flour mixed with seasonings, 
and brown the butter and flour ; then add stock gradually. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

2 teaspoons arrowroot or corn- 1 cup sugar 

starch Grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

2 cups water lj4 tablespoons butter 

Mix arrowroot or cornstarch with sugar. Add boiling water and 
cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring, and butter. Serve hot. 

SUGAR SYRUP. Put two cupfuls of sugar and a half cupful of 
water into a saucepan on the fire. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then 
let it cook slowly without touching it for about 10 minutes, or until it is 
a clear syrup. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Success in making a mayonnaise 
dressing generally depends upon all the ingredients being of the same 
temperature. 

1 ^g'g . 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

y^ teaspoon cayenne 1 cup olive oil 

1 teaspoon mustard J4 teaspoon paprika 

Mix salt, cayenne, mustard and paprika. Beat yolk well, and add to 
seasonings ; beat until mixture is thick, adding olive oil, drop by drop, for 
the first four tablespoons, then more rapidly until oil is used, thinning as 
needed with lemon juice and vinegar. Beat up the white of the egg 
until perfectly stiff and dry, add to the above and mix thoroughly. 

DRIPPINGS 

Clarify all beef fat and drippings, the grease which arises on soup 
stock, and the fat from poultry. Keep it in a clean jar or tin pail for 
frying. 

Fat from fried bacon is excellent for browning and seasoning. 

Equal parts of chicken fat, flank suet and butter make an excellent 
shortening for biscuits, muffins and pastry. Marrow from beef bones is 



32 

excellent for shortening. It also makes a tasty luncheon dish, served on 
toast. 

DEVILED MARROW ON CRACKERS. When marrow is not 
wanted in the soup, it can be served on crisp crackers for lunch. Scrape 
marrow bones, wash them well and cover top and bottom with paste made 
of flour and water. Tie in clean cheese cloth and boil for three-quarters 
of an hour. Remove cloth and paste, take marrow out from bones and 
season highly. 

SOAP 

TO MAKE WHITE HARD SOAP. Save every scrap of fat 
each day; try out all that has accumulated, however small the quantity. 
This is done by placing the scraps in a f rying-pin on the back of the range. 
If the heat is low, and the grease is not allowed to get hot enough to 
smoke or burn, there will be no odor from it. Turn the melted grease 
into lard pails and keep them covered. When six pounds of fat have 
been obtained, turn it into a dish-pan ; add a generous amount of hot water, 
and stand it on the range until the grease is entirely melted. Stir it well 
together ; then stand it aside to cool. This is clarifying the grease. The 
clean grease will rise to the top, and when it has cooled can be taken oflf 
in a cake, and such impurities as have not settled in the water, can be 
scraped off the bottom of the cake of fat. 

Put the clean grease into the dish-pan and melt it. Put a can of 
Babbitt's lye in a lard-pail; add to it a quart of cold water, and stir it 
with a stick: or wooden spoon until it is dissolved. It will get hot when 
the water is added ; let it stand tmtil it cools. Remove the melted grease 
from the fire, and pour in the lye slowly, stirring all the time. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of ammonia. Stir the mixture constantly for twenty min- 
utes or half an hour, or until the soap begins to set. 

Let it stand until perfectly hard ; then cut it into square cakes. This 
makes a very good, white hard soap which will float on water. It is very 
little trouble to make, and will be found quite an economy in a household. 
Six pounds of grease make eight and a half pounds of soap. 



Save all pieces of soap that are too small to handle. Melt them in a 
little water over a slow fire and then put it into glass-covered jars. This 
makes a jelly-like substance which can be used for washing dishes, boiling 
clothes or any other purpose for which soap is used. 



I'liiii::! 



I: -I 

(■III 



iKi; 



