COOKING 

By FLORENCE NESBITT 




AMERICM SCHOOLs^HOME ECONOMICS 
GIIICAGO, ILLINOIS 




g>tate QJoIlege of Agriculturs 

J^t (JnrncU IttliiccBitB 




The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003575960 



Low Cost Cooking 



BY 

FLORENCE NESBITT, B.A. 

FIELD SDPEKVISOR AND DIETITIAN, DEPAKTMENT OF KELIEF, JUVENILE OOTIBT OP 

CHICAGO; LECTUBEB FOB THE CHICAGO YISITINO NOBSESl ASSOCIATION; 

FOKMERLY VISITING HOUSEKEEPER OF THE UNITED 

CHARITIES OF CHICAGO 



A MANUAL OP COOKING, DIET, HOME MANAGEMENT 

AND CARE OF CHILDEEN FOR HOUSEKEBPEES 

WHO MUST CONDUCT THEIE HOMES WITH 

SMALL EXPENDITUKE OF MONEY 




CHICAGO 

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

1915 



COPYEIGHT 1915 
BY 

Home Economics Association 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Business of Home-Making 5 

Food and the Body .... ... 7 

A Well-Balanced Diet . . ... 9 

Economy in Buying ... ... 11 

Tables of Composition and Proportion . . . 16 

Setting the Table .... ... 18 

Ceneral Household Directions 19 

General Recipes 21 

Week's Menu for Winter with Directions ... 66 

Week's Menu for Summer with Directions ... 86 

Additional Three Weeks' Menus for Winter . . loi 

Additional Three Weeks' Menus for Summer . . .104 

Calculation of Cost 107 

Household Helps — 

1. Home- Made Fireless . ... no 

2. Cold Lunches ... 112 

3. When Mother Works Outside the Home . . 113 

Feeding and Care of Children 117 

Index 223 



LOW COST COOKING 



THE BUSINESS OF HOME-MAKING 

IN MANY ways the business of home-making is the 
most important one in the world. To carry it on suc- 
cessfully requires no less thought, study and work than 
the merchant or mechanic gives to his business. Success 
is well repaid and failure brings wretchedness. The suc- 
cessful home-maker has well-fed, well-kept, well-trained 
children and a husband who, through proper home care, is 
made able to do his work and earn the money needed to 
pay the expenses of the home. The unsuccessful home- 
maker very often has sickly, poorly-developed children 
and a husband whose work is made less productive by the 
poor home conditions ; or, in many cases, one who satisfies 
with strong drink the craving left by lack of proper food. 

With plenty of money the average woman can easily 
furnish her family with comfortable living conditions and 
good food. The smaller the amount of money on which the 
home must be run and food bought the greater is the need 
of the home-maker for wisdom and skill in management. 
This book is compiled especially for the woman who has 
little money to spend, the endeavor being to give, as simply 
as possible, the things she most needs to know in order to 
get the best results from her money. Many women who 
are compelled to manage with the smallest possible amount 
have helped greatly in making the book by giving recipes 
and plans which they have found useful in their attempts 
to economize. 

Economizing on food is a most dangerous thing to try 
unless the housekeeper has an understanding of food values. 

5 



6 LOW COST COOKING 

She must know what foods are necessary for the health 
of her family and in what food materials she gets the most 
for her money, to be able to decide where it is wise and 
safe to cut and where unsafe. 

Every mother should study these things carefully, for she 
has the health and well being of her family in her keeping. 

Keeping Accounts 

No good business man would try to run his business 
without keeping books to show him just where his afifairs 
stand, which purchases have been wise and which unwise. 
Keeping accounts is just as desirable in the business of 
housekeeping as in that of shop-keeping. It is much sim- 
pler, of course, and the housekeeper needs only a blank book 
in which she sets down each day the things she has bought, 
and the money she has received. For example : 

July 1st — 2 heads lettuce $ .05 

1 peck apples . . . . , 20 

10 pounds sugar 50 

2 pounds chopped meat 30 

$1.05 

July 2nd — 2 bunches carrots $ .05 

1 bushel potatoes 30 etc. 

The housekeeper who goes thoughtfully over her own 
accounts at the end of each week or month will learn much 
from them. 

WHAT FOOD MUST DO FOR THE BODY 

We put coal, gas and other fuel into an engine so it can 
have the power to work. In exactly the same way we must 
give food to our bodies, so that our muscles can do the 
work that we wish them to do. But giving this power to 
work or "energy" to the body is not the only use of food. 
The body is itself being constantly worn out, not only by 
the outside work it does but by its inside work; that is, 



FOOD AND THE BODY 7 

by the beating of the heart, workings of the stomach and 
other organs. It takes various kinds of food to repair 
these worn-out parts, and if they are not repaired just as 
fast as they are worn out, weak places are left in the body 
where disease germs may easily grow and it becomes dis- 
eased, perhaps tuberculous ; or, escaping disease, the body 
is worn out and old when it should be still young and strong. 

Food for the Child 

The child, too, needs a great deal of food for energy as 
it is always moving about in play or work, and it also needs 
the food to repair the worn-out parts of its body just as 
the adult does. Besides all this, it needs food to grow on. 
There is no other way for the child to get the stufif to make 
larger bones and muscles except from its food. Give the 
child all the food it needs and it will have a good chance 
to grow a large, strong, healthy body. If it does not get 
all of the different kinds of food it needs and enough of 
them, it cannot possibly be strong and well. Perhaps the 
growth will be stunted, and the child will not become a 
well-grown man or woman ; perhaps it will grow large, but 
will have weak spots in its body where disease germs can 
easily grow, so that it is apt to take any disease to which it 
is exposed, such as scarlet fever, diphtheria or tubercu- 
losis. The city child must be exposed to some of these dis- 
eases, but if its body is strong and clean it will have a good 
chance to escape taking them. For these reasons proper 
food is of even more importance to the child than to the 
adult. 

Foods Furnishing Energy 

The body can use all kinds of food for energy to work 
on, but the best and cheapest for this purpose are the 
ones that contain starch, sugar and fat. 



8 LOW COST COOKING 

The chief foods which contain starch are: cereals, flour 
and meals of all kinds, legumes (beans, peas and lentils) 
and some vegetables such as potatoes and sweet potatoes. 

Many vegetables and fruits such as carrots, oranges, etc., 
contain sugar, but we get most of our sugar in the pure 
form which has been taken from the juices of sugar cane 
and sugar beet. 

The chief foods which contain fat are the fat parts of 
meat, lard, suet, butter and cream, cheese, cottonseed oil, 
olive oil, and nuts. 

Foods for Building and Repairing the Body 

To repair the worn-out muscles and other tissues of the 
body, a substance called protein is necessary. It is found 
in all foods, but in largest quantities in such foods as meat, 
milk, fish, eggs and cheese. 

To build and repair the bones and to keep the body clean, 
strong and able to resist disease, many different kinds of 
minerals are needed such as lime, iron, sulphur, etc. For 
these we depend chiefly on fruits and vegetables, although 
other foods, especially milk and eggs, contain valuable 
minerals. 

Balanced Diet 

A diet which furnishes all of these things which the body 
needs in the right amount is called a "well-balanced diet." 
It must contain some high protein foods such as meat, milk, 
eggs, cheese and fish, for building and repairing; much 
starch, fat and sugar for energy, and also vegetables and 
fruits to provide the minerals needed. Too much protein 
foods will cause disturbances of the kidneys. Too much 
starch or fat will cause digestive troubles. Too much sugar 
will produce ansemia and cause disturbances of digestion. 

In general, a diet for an adult will be well-balanced if it 
contains meat or fish once a day with a little milk and an 



CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED DIET 9 

egg occasionally; a cereal once; another vegetable besides 
potatoes once, with fruit twice per day, or vegetable twice 
and fruit once. In addition the diet should include as much 
bread and potatoes and some kind of fat as the normal 
appetite demands. This is simple enough when there is 
plenty of money, but when it must be done on a small 
income it becomes a very hard thing to do. 



HOW TO HAVE A CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED 

DIET 

The following classes of food are the ones that give the 
body the greatest amount of energy for the money, and 
must be used in large quantities by the housekeeper who 
wishes to feed her family well for a small amount of money. 

Cereals, which include everything made from grains, 
such as flour from which we make bread, macaroni, etc., as 
well as oatmeal, commeal, rice, rye, etc. 

Legumes, which include all kinds of beans and peas, also 
lentils and peanuts. 

Cheaper Forms of Fat, such as suet, lard, oleo, peanut 
oil, cottonseed oil, etc. 

These alone would make a cheap diet, but a very poor 
one. To them must be added foods which furnish more 
protein than these have for building and repairing the body, 
and those that furnish the mineral elements necessary for 
keeping the body in health. 

Protein for Children 

For children milk is the best high protein food. Only 
milk from good dairies should be given children, and this 
as a rule is the same price with all of the dairies in the same 
town. In Chicago it costs 8 cents per quart. When skim 
milk can be bought at 3 cents to 4 cents per quart it enables 



lO LOW COST COOKING 

the housekeeper to economize a little on her milk bill. When 
milk is skimmed the fat is removed, but the protein and 
minerals remain, so that it is still a very valuable food. 

AMOUNT OF MILK DESIRABLE FOR CHILDREN. 

I pint to I quart per day for each child under 2 years. 

I pint to 154 pints per day for each child 2 to 5 years. 

I pint at least per day for each child 5 to 9 years. 

I pint if possible per day for older children. 

Eggs are the next best protein food for children. When 

they are cheap they should be given in abundance; when 

expensive as many as can be afforded. Meat should be 

given only in very small quantities to young children. 

Protein for Adults 

In order to buy the necessary amount of milk for the 
children, the protein foods for the grown up part of the 
family must be bought very economically. American brick 
cheese can be bought at from 19 cents to 22 cents per 
pound, and cottage cheese at 10 cents per pound, and at 
these prices are cheap protein food. Eggs are fairly cheap 
at certain times in 4;he year, at other times far too expensive 
for general use. They are easily digested and very desir- 
able for children and invalids. 

Meat may be very expensive or quite inexpensive accord- 
ing to the way in which it is bought. There is about the 
same amount of nourishment in the cheaper cuts as in 
more expensive ones. As a rule the cheaper cuts of meat 
require longer cooking to make them tender and palatable, 
so that in some cases the cost of fuel must be reckoned. 
In winter, however, the fire that is used for cooking is also 
needed for heat, and in summer a fireless cooker will save 
almost all of the extra fuel needed for the long cooking. 

Foods Furnishing Mineral 

The body cannot long remain healthy without vegetables 
and fruits. Those who are entirely cut off from these 



ECONOMY IN BUYING II 

foods are apt to be attacked by the horrible disease, scurvy, 
found chiefly in shipwrecks and in besieged cities. This 
condition is rare, but less serious skin diseases, and constipa- 
tion, with its attending train of diseases, are very common 
among those who have not enough of this class of foods. 

This is an expensive part of the diet and can be managed 
at small cost only by watching the market closely and buy- 
ing the articles cheapest at the time. In the winter when 
there are no fruits in season and green vegetables are 
expensive, the dried fruits and winter vegetables, such as 
carrots, rutabagas and onions can be used. 

Fresh fruit should be used at all times when the price 
will permit. 

Milk is also very valuable as a source of the minerals 
needed. The growing child who has sufficient milk rarely 
suffers from rickets as there is enough lime in the amount 
of milk recommended above to provide for properly build- 
ing the bones of the growing child. 

ECON'OMY IN BUYING 

These are a few of the things every woman who tries to 
get the greatest value for the money she spends for f6od 
should always keep in mind: 

Work of Others 

If someone else bakes your bread, cakes or pies, cooks 
your meat, cans your vegetables, makes your jelly and jam, 
pays for advertising these things and then sells them to you, 
you must pay him well for all his work by paying a high 
price for the food he has prepared for you. 

Take for instance a cereal, and we can easily see just how 
much we pay for this work. Cornmeal sells in bulk for 
2J/2 cents per pound. A business firm packs the same sort 
of cornmeal, puts it into a package, names it, advertises 



12 LOW COST COOKING 

it and sells it for 5 cents per pound. Another firm puts corn 
through a cooking and rolling process, makes it into corn 
flakes, puts it in a package, names it, advertises it and sells 
it for 16 cents per pound. The amount of food in the com 
product remains about the same, but we must pay nearly 
six times as much for the cornflakes as for the cornmeal, 
in order to pay for the work done on it. The following 
table shows how much we pay for cereals by buying them 
in different ways : 

TABLE OF CEREALS WITH PRICES. 

Cornmeal (bulk) 2j^c per lb. 

Cornmeal (package) 30 oz. for loc, which is.... 5 1/3C a lb. 

Cornflakes, 10 oz. for loc, which is ,.i6c per lb. 

Oatmeal (bulk) 3c to sc a lb. 

Oatmeal, lo-lb. sack for 39c, which is 3 9/ioc a lb. 

Oatmeal (package) 22 oz. for loc, which is 7c a lb. 

Farina (bulk) Sc a lb. 

Farina (package), 14 oz. for loc, which is iij^c a lb. 

Rice (broken) 3c to Sc a lb. 

Rice (whole) 7c to 12c a lb. 

Rice (puffed) 15 oz. for isc, which is i6c a lb. 

Economical Forms of Fat 

The most expensive fats in common use are cream, but- 
ter and olive oil. Cheaper forms are meat fats, such as 
suet, lard, salt pork, bacon, tallow and oleomargarine ; veg- 
etable oils, such as cottonseed and peahut oil. The most 
important difference between these different kinds is the 
difference in flavor. The first three are also more easily 
digested than any of the cheaper forms except bacon. 

In families where there are children it is better to buy 
as much milk as possible instead of cream or butter, since 
we get in this way the cream and butter fat, as well as 
all the other valuable food the milk contains. 

Bacon is also a very useful fat where there are small 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 13 

children, as it is easily digested. A child one year old can 
take crisply fried bacon. It is one of the most expensive 
forms of fat if it is bought from the "best" brands, sliced, 
10 cents worth at a time. It is one of the most inexpensive 
if bought in the form of "bacon brisket," "bacon strips," 
"bacon butts," which are the odd-shaped trimmings from 
the sides of the bacon and are sold by the piece at from 
14 to 22 cents per pound. 

Oleomargarine is a useful and desirable substitute for 
butter. (See page 14.) Some housekeepers make a sub- 
stitute of their own, using freshly rendered leaf lard and 
suet, pleasantly flavored with onion, thyme and other savory 
herbs. 

The economical housekeeper will do well to buy leaf fat 
at 10 to 12 cents per pound and render it herself into lard. 
Cut it into small pieces and heat carefully in oven or on 
top of stove until the fat is fried out and the scraps are 
crisp but not brown. These crisp bits ("cracklings") may 
be mashed fine and used instead of drippings in making 
shortened com bread. 

Cost of Canned Foods 

A i2-ounce can of baked beans costs 10 cents. The raw 
beans, tomatoes and fat pork which it takes to make an 
equal amount of baked beans, costs about 2j^ cents. 

A i2-ounce can of soup costs 10 cents. Home-made 
soup of similar quality can be made for about 2j^ cents. 

Other canned vegetables and fruits are not quite so 
expensive by comparison, but a careful housekeeper can 
save much by avoiding canned goods, choosing instead the 
vegetables in season which are the cheapest. 

Cost of Dried Foods 

Drying is one of the least expensive ways of preserving 
foods; therefore dried fruits are inexpensive in winter in 



14 LOW COST COOKING 

comparison with fresh fruit or canned fruit, and dried 
meats and fish often less expensive than fresh. Fresh 
appks at 24 cents per peck are equal in expense to dried 
^fiples at 12 cents per pound, but when apples are 50 cents 

J;r peck the dried ones cost only one-half as much. It 
kes a peck of fresh apples to make 2 pounds of dried 
_pples. Dried sweet corn is cheap and valuable for giving 
variety to the winter diet. 

Cost of Bakery and Other Cooked Foods 

The baker's loaf ( 12 ounces) of bread costs about twice 
as much as the flour, yeast, etc., that it takes to make a 
loaf of the same weight at home. Rolls, cakes, pies, etc., 
cost more than twice as much as the home-made of the 
same quality. 

Boiled ham and beef cost about four times as much as 
raw, and jellies and preserves are about three times as ex- 
pensive as home-made ones of the same quality. 

This is not counting the cost of fuel. The large part of 
the year when the cook stove is used also for heat, this need 
not be considered at all. When fire must be especially pro- 
vided for the baking, the saving is, of course less, but the 
careful housewife will use her fuel to the best advantage 
by baking on washing or ironing day and in other ways 
using all of the heat produced. 

Cost of Flavor 

In many foods, the only difference between the expensive 
kinds and the inexpensive ones is the difference in flavor. 
This is the chief difference between butter and oleomar- 
gerine. Oleomargerine is a mixture of the best quality of 
lard and suet churned with cream, which adds some of 
the flavor and a percentage of butter to it. It is made 
under careful United States Government supervision so that 
it must be clean and wholesome. The uncolored oleo gives 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 15 

the best value for the money, as there is a tax of 10 cents 
per pound on the colored. It may be colored at home if 
desired with the coloring matter usually furnished. Nearly 
all butter is colored. One pound of oleo costs about one- 
half as much as good butter and contains only a little less 
food than the pound of butter. 
Differences in price of meats is partly a matter of flavor. 

Foods Out of Season 

When foods out of season are bought, we must pay 
enough for them to cover the cost of keeping them in cold 
storage. For example, the apples sold in the spring have 
been kept for six months or more in cold storage, and this 
makes them very expensive. Always try to find out what 
fruits and vegetables are in season and the cheapest to be 
had at the time, and buy these, waiting for the others until 
the time for their season comes. In winter when all fresh 
fruits are out of season, dried fruits can be used. 

Buying in Quantity 

Buying each day just the amount of things which are to 
be used that day is very wasteful. Better weight is given 
to the customer who buys in large quantities, and usually 
the price is lower. Try buying 10 pounds of sugar and see 
how much longer it lasts than five 2-pound packages. When 
you buy so many small packages you are paying for a large 
amount of paper at the same price you pay for food. If the 
housekeeper gets her money once per month, she will save 
by buying all of the staples, such as sugar, flour, potatoes, 
cured meats, rice, dried beans, peas, lentils, coffee, tea, dried 
fruits, etc., that she will need for the month. If she gets 
her money once per week, she will probably not be able to 
buy in such large quantities, but she can buy enough of 
these things to last the week. 



i6 



LOW COST COOKING 



COMPOSITION OF RAW FOODS. 
Parts in loo (Approximate). 

Cereal Pkoducts. 



Wheat flour .... 12 water 1 1 protein 75 starch 

Corn meal 12 water 9 protein 75 starch 

Oat meal 7 water 16 protein 67 starch 

Macaroni 10 water 13 protein 74 starch 

Rice 12 water 8 protein 79 starch 

Legumes. 

Beans and peas. . 13 water 24 protein 60 starch 

High Protein Foods. 



1 fat 

2 fat 
7 fat 
I fat 

yi fat 



Food units 
in I lb. 
1,640 
1,650 
1,860 
i,66s 
1,630 



Beef (round). ..65 water 
Mutton (leg)... so water 

Fowl 47 water 

Fish (salt) 53 water 

Fish (fresh) 82 water 

Eggs (nine) ... .74 water 
Milk (i pint).. 87 water 

Cheese 33 water 

Nuts 3 water 



20 protein 

15 protein 
14 protein 

25 protein 

16 protein 
13 protein 
3 protein 

26 protein 
20 protein 

Fats. 



S sugar 
IS starch 



Salt pork (fat) 8 water 2 protein 

Bacon (medium fat) 17 water 9 protein 

Butter II water i protein 

Oleo 10 water i protein 

Lard, oils, crisco, etc 



Food units 
in I lb. 
2 fat i,6ss 

Food units 

in I lb. 

950 

890 

76s 

410 

350 

720 

310 

2,000 

3,000 

Food units 
in I lb. 
3,670 
2,795 
3.490 
3,410 
4,220 



13 fat 

IS fat 
IS fat 
V2 fat 
Vz fat 
10 fat 
4 fat 
33 fat 
55 fat 



86 fat 
62 fat 
85 fat 
83 fat 
100 fat 



Vegetables. 



Food units 
in I lb. 
Lettuce, celery, etc., 94 water, i protein, 3 starch and sugar, 

J^ fat 85 

Carrots, string beans, parsnips, etc., 8s water, i protein, 9 

to 12 starch and sugar, J^ fat 210 

Turnips, cabbage, kohlrabi, etc., 90 water, i protein, 8 

starch and sugar, ^/i fat 185 

Potato, white, 78 water, 2 protein, 18 starch, J4 fat 38s 

Potato, sweet, 69 water, 2 protein, 27 starch and sugar, yi 

fat 570 



Fresh Fruits. 



Food units 
in I lb. 
Apples, oranges, peaches, etc., 84 water, ^ protein, 14 

sugar and starch 210 

Tomatoes, 95 water, i protein, 4 sugar and starch 105 



TABLES OF COMPOSITION AND PROPORTIONS 17 

Dried Fruits. ^°°^ V?'*' 

... „ in I lb. 

Apples, apricots, etc., 28 water, 3 protein, 64 sugar and 

starch, ij4 fat 1,320 

Dates, IS water, 2 protein, 78 sugar and starch, 3 fat 1,615 

Prunes, raisins, etc., 22 water, 2 protein, 73 sugar and 

starch, 2 fat 1,400 

Sugar, 100 sugar 1,820 

All of the above foods except the sugar, lard and oils contain 
from ^ to 2 per cent mineral matter, which does not increase their 
food units but are of great value in the diet. Butter and cheese 
have 2 to 3 per cent of common salt added. 

There is also a percentage of refuse in most of food materials 
which is largest in the meats. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

For Thickening 

1 level tablespoon of flour will thicken I cupful of 
liquid for soups. 

2 level tablespoons of flour will thicken I cupful of 
liquid for gravy. 

3 level tablespoons of browned-flour will thicken i 
cupful of liquid for gravy. 

Use one-half as much cornstarch as flour. 

Use two level tablespoons of cornstarch to I cup of 
liquid for pudding. 

Use one egg to one cup of milk for soft custard. 

Use two eggs to one cup of milk for stiff custard. 

Use one tablespoon of granulated gelatin to one pint 
liquid if cooled on ice. 

Rising Agents 

Use two level teaspoons baking powder to one cup 
flour in making mufiins, biscuits, griddle cakes and cakes. 
If well-beaten eggs are used in cake leave out one-half 
teaspoon of baking powder for each egg used. 

Use one-half level teaspoon of soda with one cup of 
sour milk. 

Use one teaspoon of soda with one cup of molasses. 

For Doughs and Batters 

Use one-third cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing biscuits. 

Use one-half cup of liquid for each cup of flour in 
making muffins. 

Use two-thirds cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing griddle cakes. 

For Salting , , , ,. . . 

Use one teaspoonful of salt for one quart of liquid. 
Use l^ teaspoonful of salt for one cup of flour for 
bread, etc. 



l8 LOW COST COOKING 

SETTING THE TABLE 

If a tablecloth is used, spread it evenly on the table so 
that the edges hang down the same length at each side and 
end. It is often much better, particularly where there are 
young children, to use doilies instead of a tablecloth in 
order to save washing. The doilies may be made 12 to 18 
inches square of white or colored linen, Japanese toweling, 
or of any kind of white cloth. The coarse muslin of flour 
sacks bleached white and neatly hemmed or hemstitched 
makes very nice ones. If doilies are used, place one in the 
center of the table, one under the meat dish, and one under 
each plate. If this makes too much washing, one in the 
center only may be used, leaving the rest of the table bare. 

Place the plates an even distance apart, right side up 
and one inch from the edge of the table. 

Place knife at right, sharp edge toward the plate, fork 
at left, tines up, spoon beside knife, bowl up. The napkin 
lies neatly folded or in a ring beside the fork. Place tum- 
bler for water at right. 

Be sure that bread and butter, water, salt, pepper, sugar 
and other things needed for the meal are on the table. 
Serve hot things on hot plates and dishes and cold things as 
cold as possible. Luke warm food is nearly always distaste- 
ful. One way to heat plates is to leave them for a short 
time in hot water; another way is to put them in warm 
oven but they may crack and discolor if set in a hot oven. 

Every child should be taught while still young that be- 
fore coming to the table his hair and clothing must be 
neat and his face and hands freshly washed. Much ill 
health is caused by children being allowed to eat with dirty, 
germ-covered hands. 



GENERAL HOUSEHOLD DIRECTIONS 

The Kitchen 

The kitchen is the heart of the home and the whole fam- 
ily rejoices in its wholesome cleanliness. Dirt may be 
tolerated better in any other part of the house than in 
the kitchen, which is the workshop for preparing food. No 
room is more attractive than a kitchen which is shiningly 
clean and contains only the things necessary for the work 
done there, and these arranged in a convenient and orderly 
way. 

Kitchen Utensils 

Keep the cooking utensils where you can get at them 
easily. Hang them on hooks or place on shelves near where 
they are used. A narrow shelf near the stove, with tea and 
coffee pots and supply cans, salt, pepper, kettle, cooking 
spoon and fork, will save many steps. Hang dishpan, drain- 
er and towels, also vegetable knife, can opener, saucepans, 
near the .sink. Near the kitchen table have all the prepar- 
ing dishes and tools. Keep each thing always in the same 
place so as not to waste time hunting for it when needed. 

The Pantry 

The pantry should be the cleanest, sweetest smelling part 
of the house. If there is the slightest musty or disagree- 
able odor, the source of it should be found and removed. 
Stale odors in the pantry are often caused by foods being 
shut in there while still warm. Leave left-over food ex- 
posed to the open air until it is cold, when it should be 
covered closely and put away in the coolest possible place. 

A shiningly clean pantry well stocked with food sup- 
plies is the pride of every good housekeeper. 

19 



20 LOW COST COOKING 

No food should ever he left standing in paper sacks. 
Roaches and ants as well as dust and dirt can get into the 
sacks and make the food unclean. Glass jars with tight 
lids are best for sugar, rice, coffee, etc., but tin cans and 
boxes or crockery jars with tight lids are good. A strip of 
paper with the name of the article on it should be pasted 
on the outside of the vessel. Tin or crockery is best for 
flour and bread. 

Personal Care 

Before beginning to cook, make sure that hands and 
nails are perfectly clean and the hair neatly dressed. Wear 
a wash dress or a big wash apron over the dress. 

Measurements 

All measurements used in these recipes are LEVEL. 
Unless this is kept in mind, the recipes will all turn out 
wrong. 

To get a level tablespoon of flour fill the spoon and 
scrape off the top with the edge of a knife, leaving it ex- 
actly level full. It takes 2 tablespoons measured in this 
way to equal one rounded tablespoonful. 

For a cup of flour sift the flour, lift it into the cup with 
a tablespoon and scrape it off the top of the cup with a 
knife, leaving it just level full. A measuring cup should 
always be used. The tin ones cost 5 cents. 

It takes 3 teaspoons to make one tablespoon; 16 table- 
spoons equal one cup; 2 cups equal one pint. 



GENERAL RECIPES 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 

Cereal grains such as wheat, com, rye and oats are of- 
fered for sale in various forms to be used as food. The 
coarser ground forms are used for mushes, soups and 
gruels and the finely ground flours for bread, cake and 
pastry. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour lyi tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 compressed yeast cakes 
3 tablespoons sugar stirred into % cup of 

2 tablespoons lard or other fat lukewarm water 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the yeast and about 
5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining flour 
and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and knead 
until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased pan, 
greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean cloth. 
Place where it will keep at a warm, even temperature. 
When the dough has raised to double its size, which will be 
in about Ij4 hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the com- 
mon bakers' loaf, which weighs 12 ounces. This recipe will 
make eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 

21 



22 LOW COST COOKING 

or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooHng. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

A good loaf of bread is light, evenly raised, has a crisp 
golden-brown crust and a fine-grained tender crumb. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour i tablespoon lard or other fat 

i4 cup sugar or molasses I tablespoon salt 

I compressed yeast cake stirred into % cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread; if caraway seeds are desired add i 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Graham or Whole Wheat Bread 

3 cups white flour i tablespoon lard 

3 cups graham or whole i tablespoon salt 

wheat flour I yeast cake stirred into J4 

H cup sugar or molasses cup lukewarm water 

Follow directions for mixing, kneading and baking given 
for white bread. 

Bran Bread 
3 cups white flour 14 cup molasses 

3 cups bran i teaspoonful baking soda 

I teaspoonful salt 2 cups sour milk or buttermilk 

Mix all together, ,ptit into greased bread pan, and bake 
i}4 hours in a slpw oven. This is very useful in cases of 
constipation. ^ 

Cinnamon Rolls 

At second kneading, roll bread dough to J^ inch thick- 
ness, spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon. Roll into a long roll, cut into i inch slices, grease 
these on the outside, place in baking pan. When they have 
risen to twice their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 
At the second kneading, roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of J^ inch and spread with a J4 inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 
inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold each strip of dough 
so that there will be a layer of prunes between two layers 
of dough. Grease the outside of each roll, place.._in a 
greased pan, allow them to rise to twice their size, bake. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



23 



Coffee Cake 

I cup hot milk yi cup sugar 

l4 cup lard i teaspoon salt 

i^ compressed yeast cake stirred into 14 cup lukewarm water 

Add hot milk to lard and salt, when lukewarm add yeast, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter — about three cups — cover 
dish and let the batter rise. Spread in a well greased pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise; bake. If raisins are 
desired add ^ cup just before putting into baking pan. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

Mix as for coffee cake. Just before baking press into 
the dough three sour apples, pared and cut into eighths. 
Sprinkle the apples generously with sugar, and cinnamon 
if desired. 

Hot Breads 

Hot Breads are wholesome if light and baked until thor- 
oughly done. The inside of a muffin or biscuit should 
be dry and firm, not soft or soggy. 

Use of Sour Milk in Baking 
In any baking recipe where sweet milk with baking pow- 
der is used sour milk and soda may be used instead. Use 
yi teaspoon baking soda for each cup of sour milk. This 
will usually not make the product light enough and there 
should be J^ teaspoon baking powder added to each cup of 
flour used. 

White Flour Muffins 
3 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

lyi cups liquid, half water 6 teaspoons baking powder 

and half milk 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

2 tablespoons sugar pings, suet, or lard 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
well, put quickly into a well greased muffin pan, bake about 
25 minutes in moderately hot oven. An egg may be added 
to the recipe. 

Graham, Whole Wheat or Rye Muffins 
Use recipe above, using ij4 cups graham, whole wheat 
or rye flour and i^ cups white flour. 

Berry Muffins 
Use recipe for White Flour Muffins and add ij4 cups 
of berries — huckleberries, raspberries, blackberries or blue- 



24 LOW COST COOKING 

berries — just before putting into baking pans. If desired to 
make them more like cake, increase the amount of sugar 
to I cup, the drippings to J4 cup, and add i or 2 eggs. 

Oat Meal Muffins 
3 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

lyi cups cooked oatmeal i cup liquid 

2 tablespoons sugar I tablespoon fat 

5 teaspoons baking powder i egg may be used 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly, put quickly into well-greased muffin pans, bake 
about 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Kice Muffins 
Mix same as above, adding hot cooked rice instead of 
oatmeal. 

Bran Muffins 

1 cup flour 2 cups milk or water 

2 cups bran 6 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons molasses ij^ teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons drippings J4 teaspoon baking soda 

Mix dry ingredients, add liquids and beat. Bake as other 
muffins. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

3 cups flour i}4 teaspoons salt 

I cup liquid 3 tablespoons fat (lard, crisco, 

6 teaspoons baking powder etc.) 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mixing it with 
flour by cutting with two knives or rub it in lightly with 
finger tips. Add liquid gradually, mixing with a knife. 
Turn onto a floured board, roll or pat to half inch thick- 
ness, cut into rounds with biscuit cutter and place in baking 
pan. It does not hurt biscuits to stand for a while after 
being ready for the oven, if the top is brushed over with 
melted fat in order to prevent a hard crust from forming. 

Drop Biscuits 

2% cups flour S teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons melted fat 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients and 
melted fat and mix with a knife. Drop by tablespoonfuls 
in a baking pan, bake in a hot oven. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



25 



Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2 cups flour ^ cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder % cup oleo 

J4 teaspoon salt }4 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work in the fat with the tips of the fingers, add the milk or 
water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet J^ 
inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing ftjwl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into J^ inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Plain Griddle Cakes 

3 cups flour 3 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups liquid 6 teaspoons baking powder 

V/i teaspoons salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquids, beat and begin 
to cook at once by dropping on hot greased frying pan, i 
tablespoonful in a place. Make as many cakes in the grid- 
dle as it will hold without their touching one another. The 
most important point about cooking the cakes is to avoid 
turning them too soon. Do not turn until the cake is cooked 
through, except for a thin upper layer. When this is done, 
the gas bubbles will burst over the top of the cake, show- 
ing cooked substance below. Keep the fire low enough to 
avoid burning before it is cooked through. Turn and 
brown on the other side. As the cakes are done, place them 
on a plate on top of a kettle of boiling water to keep warm. 
Griddle cakes are hard to digest unless very carefully 
cooked. Follow directions closely to prevent them from 
being hard, tough and indigestible or soggy and raw. 

Graham or Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 
These are made in the same way by using half white flour 
and half graham flour or cornmeal. 

Stale Bread Griddle Cakes 

Ij4 cups flour I egg 

4 cups stale bread crumbs Vz teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk S teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups hot water 3 tablespoons drippings 



26 LOW COST COOKING 

Pour water and milk over breadcrumbs and soak until 
crumb? ate soft. Add egg, sift in the flour mixed with salt 
and baking powder, bake as other griddle cakes. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

l^ cups flour J4 teaspoon salt 

lyi cups cooked rice 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup milk or water s teaspoons baking powder 

Mix liquid ingredients and add rice. Add flour mixed 
and sifted with salt and baking powder. Bake as other 
griddle cakes. 

Com Bread 

2 cups cornmeal i^i teaspoon salt 

I cup flour 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

l]4 cups sour milk pings 

5^ teaspoon baking soda J4 cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly and quickly turn into hot well-greased flat pan. 
Bake about 30 minutes. Cut into squares and serve hot. 

Shortened Corn Bread 

3 cups cornmeal (white pre- i cup sour milk 
f erred) 54 teaspoon soda 

4 tablespoons cold drippings 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mix the same as for 
biscuits, add milk, form into large pones about 6 inches long 
and three inches wide and J4 inch thick. The dough should 
be stiff enough for the pone to hold its shape. Place in 
buttered pan, bake 30 minutes, serve hot. "Cracklings" 
may be used instead of drippings. 

Com Pone 

3 cups white cornmeal iH teaspoons salt 

I cup boiling water 

Mix ingredients, form into pone, same as shortened corn- 
bread, bake in greased pan about j/^ hour. Split open and 
serve with slices of crisp bacon inside. 

For Southern Corn Bread see page 71. 

One mother of five children says: "Cornbread is very 
cheap, but when served piping hot with syrup I never 
can get one big enough." 

TOAST 

Toast may be most easily made in winter when fire is 
going all the time by laying the slices of bread in the oven 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 27 

until they are browned. Toast made in this way is dry all 
the way through, as well as being brown on the outside and 
is more easily digested than soft toast. When the gas 
stove is being used and has a broiler, place the toast on 
it, brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. If there 
is only a gas burner to use it may be covered by a clean 
asbestos mat and the bread laid on this. An asbestos mat 
costs 5 cents. A wire toaster which will toast 4 pieces at 
once, can be bought for 19 cents. 

Toasted Rolls or Baking Powder Biscuits 

These are made by splitting the biscuits or rolls open 
and laying them in oven or on the toaster until the exposed 
crumb is brown. 

French Toast 

Make a mixture of half milk, half water, J^ cup of each, 
add an egg and dip slices of stale bread in this mixture. 
Lay them in a hot greased frying pan and brown on both 
sides. It may be served with syrup. 
Cream Toast 

Cream toast with or without cheese is made by pouring 
thin white sauce over toasted bread. Cheese may be added 
after the hot sauce is removed from the fire. Fuller direc- 
tions are found on page 96. It is seasoned with salt and 
pepper if cheese is added, otherwise with sugar or with 
salt and pepper alone if desired. A dash of nutmeg may 
be added. 

Milk Toast 

Toast bread in oven, cover with hot milk, serve with salt 
and pepper. 

COOKING BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Cereals are made from hard grains and contain much 
starch, so require long cooking to make them easily di- 
gested. Do not be deceived by directions on the box which 
say that the contents can be cooked in 15 or 20 minutes. 
This is never long enough to cook thoroughly and make 
them fit food for young children. 

Use a double boiler or a fireless cooker if possible. Sift 
the dry cereal slowly into salted boiling water, stirring 
all the while to prevent lumping. Some cereals like graham 
flour which lump badly should be mixed first with cold 



28 LOW COST COOKING 

water, then poured into the boiling water. Cook S minutes 
directly over the fire, then place upper part of double 
boiler over the lower part, cover closely and steam for the 
time required. If there is no double boiler, set the vessel 
containing the cereal in a kettle containing boiling water. 
When the coal range is used, a very convenient way to 
cook the cereal is to start it cooking at supper time and 
leave closely covered on the back of the range all night. In 
the morning it will be found to be well done. Better still, 
leave it in the fireless cooker over night. 

Proportions and Time for Cooking Cereals 

I cup Oatmeal 4 cups water 4 hours 

I cup Rolled Oats...2j4 cups water i to 2 hours 

I cup Farina 4 cups water J4 to i hour 

I cup Cracked Wheat. .6 cups water 6 hours or longer 

1 cup Graham Flour... 3 cups water }/^ to i hour 

I cup Cornmeal 4 cups water 3 hours 

I cup Hominy 4 cups water 4 hours 

I cup Rice 3 cups water 30 minutes* 

I cup Rice 3 cups water 50 minutest 

* For boiling. t For steaming. 

Cereal Mush 

All of the cereals named above may be served hot as 
mush with cream or milk with or without sugar. Mush 
may also be served with syrup instead of milk. Cornmeal 
mush is much liked in this way. 

If it is difficult to teach a child to eat cereal, adding fruit 
to make it more attractive will often help. 

Oatmeal with Raisins 

I cup oatmeal 54 pound black seedless 

4 cups water raisins 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook oatmeal as directed. Stew raisins according to 
directions given under Dried Fruit (page 53) and add 
enough sugar to make them quite sweet. Serve poured 
over the mush. Dates or figs may be used in the same way 
and with all of the other cereals. 

Farina with Dates 

I cup farina J4 pound dates 

4 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook farina as directed; 15 minutes before serving add 
the dates, washed and stoned. Seedless raisins and figs 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 29 

may be used in this way and with all of the different cereals 
as well as with farina. 

Fried Com Meal Mush or Hominy 

Pour cornmeal or hominy mush into a deep pan. When 
cold cut in slices and fry until brown in drippings, lard or 
suet. 

Another method is to use the mush while still hot, drop- 
ping it into the hot fat, frying it in the form of pancake. 

CEREAL DISHES FOR LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Oatmeal and Potatoes 

% cup oatmeal 6 cups boiling water 

I onion Sprig of parsley 

1 lb potatoes (3 or 4) 

Add oatmeal to boiling salted water and cook ij^ hours. 
Add potatoes cut in cubes and boil J^ hour longer. Fry 
onion until brown in drippings, lard or suet, and add this 
to the mixture along with the chopped parsley or any other 
seasoning desired. Left over oatmeal mush may be used 
for this excellent dish. 

Oatmeal Soup 

2 cups cooked oatmeal 2 cups water 
I onion 2 cups milk 

Brown onion chopped fine in drippings, suet or lard, add 
to the other ingredients, heat to boiling point and serve. 
Rice with Lentils 
I cup rice i onion 

Yi cup lentils T-Yt teaspoons salt 

Parsley, celery, etc., as desired. Cook lentils, following 
directions on page 39 ; J^ hour before serving add rice. Fry 
the onion chopped fine and green flavoring materials (pars- 
ley, celery, etc.) in drippings or lard, add to the rice and 
lentils and serve. 

Rice with Navy Beans 
Follow directions for rice with lentils, using beans in- 
stead of lentils. 

Lima Beans and Barley 
I cup dried lima beans I onion 

54 cup barley i bunch soup greens 

Salt to taste 

Cook beans 2 hours, add barley and cook i hour longer. 
Fry onion and greens in drippings, add to mixture and serve. 



30 LOW COST COOKING 

Polenta 

1Y2 cup cornmeal 3 tablespoons salad oil 

2 cups cooked tomatoes 3 tablespoons cheese 

Salt, pepper and small onion for flavoring 
Follow directions for cooking cornmeal mush. Cook to- 
matoes, onion and oil i hour or more until the mixture is 
quite thick. Place layer of hot cornmeal mush in dish, then 
layer of tomato mixture, more cornmeal mush and tomato 
on top. Sprinkle grated cheese over the top of dish. 

Plain Boiled Rice 

Rice must be cooked differently from other cereals, as 
there is danger of overcooking and rendering the product 
soggy. Rice cooked by either boiling or steaming should 
have each grain standing out separate and whole and at the 
same time be perfectly tender. 

Wash I cup rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is quite clean. 
Have ready 2 quarts of rapidly boiling water, to which has 
been added 4 teaspoons of salt. Add the rice slowly and 
boil rapidly 20 minutes. Drain off the water, saving it for 
soup, and set the pan back on a low fire to dry out all the 
rest of the moisture. 

Steamed Rice 

Use 3 cups of boiling salted water to one cup of rice. 
Follow directions for boiled rice, allowing the rice to boil 
for 5 minutes directly over the fire. Cover closely, set pan 
in larger vessel with hot water and steam 50 minutes. 

Rice with Stewed Fruit 
Serve either boiled or steamed rice with fresh fruit, such 
as black plums, stewed with plenty of water and poured 
over. 

Rice with Cinnamon 
Serve either boiled or steamed rice with sugar and cin- 
namon sprinkled over the top of the dish. Serve with or 
without milk. 

Rice with Cheese 

4 cups cooked rice % pound cheese 

4 cups thin white sauce or milk 

Mix white sauce with the rice. Put alternate layers of 
this mixture and grated cheese in baking dish. Cover with 



MEATS 



31 



breadcrumbs and bake in moderate oven until hot through 
and crumbs are brown. 

Rice with Tomato — Savory Rice 
Follow directions for rice with cheese, using strained 
tomato instead of white sauce. It may be made with or 
without cheese, and onion or green peppers chopped fine 
may be added if desired. It may also be served hot with- 
out baking. 

MEATS 

Meat is the most difficult part of the diet to manage where 
strict economy must be observed. The cheaper cuts of 
meat, fortunately, contain even more nutriment than the 
expensive ones, but are cheaper because they are not so 
tender. The price per pound, however, does not always 
show which cut of meat is cheaper. The housekeeper must 
consider carefully the amount of bone and fat that is given 
with certain cuts in deciding on the kind to buy ; for example, 
spare ribs at 12 cents a pound cost more than round steak 
at 20 cents a pound because of the large proportion of bone 
they contain. 

The fact to keep in mind is that one pound of lean meat 
is about equal to another pound of lean, no matter which 
part of the beef it is cut from and no matter what the dif- 
ference in price may be ; therefore the housekeeper should 
choose the piece which gives the most lean meat for the 
money. Flank steak and lower round are good examples 
of cheap beef, as they are almost all lean with very little 
waste and sell for 12 to 16 cents per pound. The fat is 
valuable, but suet can be bought at 5 cents per pound and 
leaf fat at 10 cents, which will be cheaper than paying for 
it with the meat. Always ask the butcher for the trimmings 
from your own piece of meat. You will find some usable 
pieces. 

The tougher, cheaper meats, unless chopped fine, must 
be cooked by a long, slow process to make them tender 



32 



LOW COST COOKING 



and palatable. A fireless cooker is excellent for this 
purpose. 

Principle of Cooking Meats. — Whatever process of 
cooking is used, the following facts should be kept in mind : 
a high degree of heat (that is, the boiling point in water or 
a very hot oven or griddle) hardens and toughens the meat, 
and it should be used only on the outside of the meat where 
it is good to form a crust in order that the inside may be 
kept tender and juicy; long cooking at a low temperature 
softens the hard tissues and makes tough meat tender and 
digestible. Pork and mutton must be cooked well done, 
while beef may be safely eaten rare. 

Stews 

Of the long, slow processes, stewing is one of the best 
methods. In choosing meat for a stew, whether it is beef, 
lamb, mutton, or veal, take a piece containing some bone, as 
this adds to the flavor. As it is to be cooked a long time, 
the tougher parts of the animal such as the neck and leg, 
below the round of beef or mutton, and shoulder of veal 
or lamb may be used. Remove most of the fat before 
cooking, as a greasy stew is too difficult to digest for chil- 
dren and for persons with delicate digestion. 

If the flavor of browned meat is desired, brown the 
pieces in a hot, dry kettle. Add cold water and bring 
slowly to the simmering point. If the meat is not to be 
browned cover at once with boiling water. In all cases 
keep the fire very low so that the stew will not boil, as the 
high heat will toughen the meat. 

Stews may be flavored with all kinds of highly flavored 
vegetables, which should be added just in time to cook 
tender before the meat is done. If the stew is to be the 
main part of the meal, it can be made more nourishing by 
adding barley, rice, macaroni, dumplings, and other cereals 
or flour mixtures. 



MEATS 33 

Brown Stew with Dumplings 

lyi pounds stew beef 3 sprigs of parsley 

1 onion 

Sear the beef in a hot, dry kettle until the pieces are all 
well browned on the outside, cover with cold water and 
cook slowly until tender. Do not allow it to boil. Add 
onion and parsley after first hour. 

Dumplings 

2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powdec 
5^ cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon fat 

Mix the dough for dumplings exactly as baking powder 
biscuits, and drop by tablespoonfuls over the top of the 
stew. Cover closely and cook 20 minutes without lifting 
the cover. If dumplings are removed before being thor- 
oughly done they fall and are hard and indigestible. 

A 15-cent knuckle of veal may be used with dumplings 
where much meat is not needed. 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

ij^ to 2 pounds lamb or mutton i pint carrots 

Follow directions above for stew. When done thicken 

gravy with two tablespoons flour. Serve on large dish 

with a border of boiled rice. 
For stew with vegetables, see page 73. 

Scotch Broth 

2 pounds mutton, from neck, 2 tablespoons each of car- 
shoulder or shank rots, celery and parsnip 

2 tablespoons minced onions 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons minced turnip 3 quarts of cold water 

Remove fat, cut into small pieces, add seasoning, except 
parsley, bring to a boil and then continue cooking just below 
boiling point for three hours. Add J^ cup fine barley after 
the first hour, and parsley J4 hour before it is done. 

Braising 
Braising is another important method for long cooking, 
which is used in making pot roast, beef a la mode, braised 
beef, etc. The meat is first browned on the outside, then 
cooked slowly until tender in small amount of water, either 
on top of stove or in the oven. 



34 



LOW COST COOKING 



Beef a la Mode 

ip2 to 2 pounds flat piece of beef, such as flank steak or 

shoulder steak 

I tablesp'n carrots, chopped fine. I tablesp'n onions, chopped fine 

Dressing 

I cup bread crumbs, moistened with cold water 
I teaspoon onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients for dressing, spread over the meat, roll, 
then wrap and tie with twine. Cut slashes in the outside of 
the meat and press into the openings thin pieces of fat salt 
pork. Sear the meat in a hot kettle, add enough water to 
half cover it. Add onion and carrots and cook slowly until 

^^^^^^- Braised Cutlets 

Cut any inexpensive meats such as chuck steak, round 
steak, flank steak, heart, etc., in pieces for serving. Brown 
the pieces in a hot pan, place them in a baking dish, cover 
with gravy made from the browning, add a small onion, 
chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. Cover the dish 
closely and bake until meat is tender. 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 pounds meat (pork shoulder, brisket, etc.) 
2 cups each carrots, turnips, parsnip, rutabaga 

Brown meat on all sides in the hot kettle with a bit of 
meat fat. Half cover with water, cook slowly for three or 
four hours, last half hour adding the vegetables, pared and 
cut in pieces. Chopped Meats 

To lessen time of cooking, meats may be chopped fine. 
The chopped meat offered by the butcher is sometimes not 
quite fresh, as stale scraps are added, and it is better for 
the housekeeper to choose the pieces of meat and have them 
ground. ^^^^ Balls a^d Onions 

1 54 pounds chopped meat l teaspoon salt 

I onion, chopped fine J4 teaspoon pepper 

Mix onions, salt and pepper thoroughly with meat, form 
into cakes, brown both sides in hot pan. Cover closely 
and continue cooking at a low temperature until done 
through. Serve with brown gravy made from the drippings. 

Meat Loaf 
I pound chopped meat i or 2 eggs 

4 cups breadcrumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

Pepper and chopped onion to taste 



MEATS 35 

Meat loaf may be made without egg as described on 
page 85. If it is to be sliced cold the above recipe is better, 
as it will keep its shape better. 

Mix ingredients together. If too dry add water or milk 
to moisten bread. Form into loaf and bake in moderate 
oven for ij4 to 2 hours. 

Chopped beef and pork mixed, veal and pork, beef or 
veal alone, or Hamburger steak may be used. Rice or cold 
potatoes may be used instead of bread crumbs, and tomatoes 
may be used for flavoring. 

Pan Broiling 

This is a useful way to cook meat quickly, which may 
be used for all kinds of steaks and chops. Directions must 
be closely followed to preserve the tenderness of the meat 
and to prevent it from becoming dry and hard. 

Pan Broiled Flank Steak 

Do not allow the butcher to score or slash the flank steak 
for broiling, as this allows the good juices to escape. 

Have the pan very hot, grease it slightly to prevent 
sticking, lay the steak in whole, even if it reaches over the 
edges of the pan. It will shrink in cooking. After brown- 
ing on orie side, turn and brown the other. Salt and pepper 
may be sprinkled on each side after it is browned. As soon 
as browned, cover the pan closely and continue to cook on a 
very low fire until done. It will take 10 to 20 minutes, ac- 
cording to thickness, to cook it well done and from 5 to 10 
minutes to cook it rare. 

In serving cut across the fibre of the meat. 

All kinds of chops and steaks are pan-broiled in this way. 
Made Meat Dishes 

It is sometimes necessary to use very little meat, either 
for economy or because the health of the family is better 
with less. A small amount of meat may be made to serve 
the family by combining with other foods. 

Scalloped Meats 

2 cups chopped cooked meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

3 cups thin white sauce or brown gravy- 
Left over meats may very well be used for this dish and 
different kinds may be used together if they are at hand. 



36 LOW COST COOKING 

Mix rice or bread crumbs with white sauce or brown gravy. 
Place alternate layers of this mixture and the chopped 
meat in baking dish. Cover with bread crumbs, bake in 
moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 
Meat Croquettes 

2 cups chopped meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

2 cups thick white sauce or brown gravy 
Leftover meats and gravy may be used for this dish. 
Make white sauce by recipe on page 42. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly together. Form into round or oblong balls, bake 
in oven until brown on outside, or brown on both sides in 
hot greased pan. Serve as meat balls. 
Turkish Pilaf 
3 cups rice 1% cups water 

iH cups tomatoes 2 cups cooked meat, chopped 

I onion 
Mix rice with tomatoes and onion chopped fine and water, 
place alternate layers of this mixture and of chopped meat 
in baking dish, cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
brown in a moderate oven. 

Meat ScEilloped with Rice and Onions 

Partly fill baking dish with alternate layers of cooked 
rice and thinly sliced onions. Add a layer cooked left-over 
meat chopped fine or three-fourths pound raw chopped 
meat. Add hot water to moisten dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and bake three-fourths hour in moderate oven. 
Hominy with Bacon 
Fry 4 slices of bacon until crisp. Cut into small pieces, 
add 4 cups cooked hominy and reheat. Scraps of any kind 
of leftover meat may be used instead of bacon and any of 
the other cereals may be used instead of hominy. 

Meat Pie 
Use leftover stew or any remains of meat at hand. Put 
the meat in a baking dish, add sufficient gravy to cover 
well, adding parsley, celery, etc., as desired for seasoning. 
Cover the top with a half-inch layer of dough made as for 
baking powder biscuits, bake in hot oven until dough is 
done. Ti.jpg 

i/^ pounds tripe 2 cups white sauce 

Cut tripe in small pieces, cover with hot water and cook 
15 minutes. Drain, add white sauce, stew 20 minutes. 



MEATS 37 

Brains 

Soak over night in salt water, remove outer skins, roll 
in flour or bread crumbs. Brown both sides in hot greased 
pan, cover closely and cook on low fire about 20 minutes 
until well done. 

To scramble, break in small pieces, add i or 2 eggs and 
cook in hot greased pan, stirring constantly. 

Stuffed Heart 
Remove veins and cords of calves or beef heart, soak and 
clean. Stuff with dressing and braize as described for Beef 
a la Mode, page 34. 

Hamburger Steak with Tomatoes 

lJ4 pounds chopped meat Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan, stirring constantly. When 
part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, cover closely and 
continue cooking on low fire until done. 

FISH 

Fi^h is one of the high protein foods and may be used 
at any meal instead of meat. The cheaper kinds are more 
economical than meat. In buying fish be sure it is fresh. 
In fresh fish the eyes are bright, the gills red, the flesh firm 
and odorless. Be sure it is well cleaned before cooking. . 

Panned Fish 
Clean the fish, rvijo with salt and dry with a little flour. 
Lay in very hot frying pan greased with salt pork drippings. 
Brown quickly on both sides, cover closely and cook on 
low fire ID to 20 minutes until cooked through. If the fish 
is large cut into pieces ; if small, cook whole. 

Baked Fish 
Bake and clean large fish leaving on the head ; stuff with 
dressing; lay in pan and bake in a moderate oven. When 
thoroughly done place whole on a hot dish. 

Dressing for Fish 
Put I tablespoon drippings in a sauce pan ; stir in 2 cups 
of bread crumbs, i teaspoon chopped onion, i teaspoon 
parsley, i tablespoon chopped suet. Moisten with J^ cup of 
milk or water. 



38 LOW COST COOKING 

THE COOKING OF EGGS 

The same principle that applies to the cooking of meats 
applies also to eggs, as the protein found in each is made 
tough and indigestible by a high degree of heat. Even if 
the eggs are cooked hard they should never be tough. 
Hard Cooked Eggs 

Place the eggs in a stew pan and cover with boiling 
water. Do not allow the water to boil after the eggs are in, 
but keep it hot for fifty minutes. Cooked in this way the 
whites of the eggs will be solid but tender, and the yolks 
solid and mealy. 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

If the eggs are to be cooked in the shell, they may be 
put into cold water and the water brought slowly to the 
boiling point. By this time the white will be solid and the 
egg hot all the way through. Or they may be dropped into 
boiling water, the pan set on the back of the stove and 
allowed to stand from 7 to lo minutes. 
Poached Eggs 

Bring to the boiling point enough water to cover the 
eggs. Break each egg separately in a cup, slip it quickly 
into the hot water, let it stand, keeping the water hot but 
not allowing it to boil until the white is firm. This will take 
about seven minutes. 

Scrambled Eggs 

When eggs are expensive, a smaller number may be used 
for a meal if they are cooked with other foods. In scram- 
bling milk and flour may be added to enlarge the bulk. 
Follow the recipe given on page 84. 

Eggs Scrambled with Potatoes 

4 cups cold boiled potatoes 2 to 4 eggs 

Cut the potatoes in thin slices or in J^-inch cubes, add 
the beaten egg, cook in a warm greased frying pan over a 
low fire, stirring constantly until the eggs are cooked and 
the potatoes warmed through. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomatoes 

% can tomatoes 2 to 4 eggs 

Add the beaten eggs to the tomatoes, heat, stirring the 
mixture until the eggs are cooked. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. 



LEGUMES 

Legumes are a very useful class of food, as they contain 
a large amount of nutriment and may be used to replace 
part of the meat in the diet. Little or no meat should be 
served at the same time. One pound of any of those in 
the table following contains as much food as the average 
pound of flank of beef or fresh ham, and more than twice 
as much as cuts which contain much bone, such as spare 
ribs and leg of veal. 

TABLES OF COMMON LEGUMES 

Price Time for cooking 
per pound after soaking 

Split yellow peas 5 cts. lYz hours 

Split green peas 6 cts. 2j^ hours 

Whole green peas 7 cts. 4 hours 

Black-eyed peas 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lentils 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lima beans 8 cts. 3 hours 

Kidney beans 8 cts. 3H hours 

Navy beans- S cts. 3 hours 

The following directions may be used for cooking all of 
them. Wash carefully. Soak several hours or over night; 
start to cook well covered with cold water and cook until 
tender. Add one teaspoonful of salt to each cup. They 
may then be made into a large number of attractive dishes, 
which may be divided into the following types : 

Type I. Tomatoes, cheese, etc., may be added for sea- 
soning as in the following dishes: 

Boiled Beans with Tomatoes 
Follow directions for cooking beans given above. When 
almost tender add canned tomatoes and seasoning and cook 
one-half hour longer. Use onion, pepper, salt, etc., for 
seasoning. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, lentils, black eyed peas may 
also be used in this way. 

Beans with Cheese and Green Peppers 

^ pound kidney beans i green pepper Vz pound cheese 

Add pepper and salt to taste 

39 



40 LOW COST COOKING 

Soak beans over night. In the morning cook slowly one 
hour. Chop peppers and cook with the beans until tender. 
Just before taking from the fire add cut-up cheese. Serve 
hot on toast. 

Type II. The flavor may be secured by adding a piece 
of meat such as salt pork, end of salt shoulder or ham. 

Black Eyed Peas with Ham Butts 

2 cups black-eyed peas l^ pound salt ham butt 
Wash and soak the peas over night. Remove the rind 

from the ham butt. Cover with cold water, cook slowly 
for 2 hours, add peas, and continue cooking until peas and 
meat are tender. 

Navy beans, lima beans, split peas and lentils may be 
cooked in the same way. 

Type III. They may be baked with various kinds of 
seasoning added. 

Baked Peas with Bacon 

Use dried peas, either split or whole. When cooked 
tender evaporate most of the water and turn into the baking 
dish. Place strips of thin cut salt pork or bacon on top. 
Bake in a moderate oven until bacon is crisp and brown. 
Beans, lima beans, and lentils may be baked in the same way. 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 cups beans 2 tablespoons sugar 

% pound salt pork i tablespoon molasses 

2 teaspoons salt 
Soak beans over night, cover with cold water; cook 
slowly one-half hour and drain off the water. Scald a piece 
of salt pork, place one thin slice of pork in the bottom of 
the baking dish; put in the beans and bury the piece of 
pork in them, leaving the edges exposed. Mix molasses, 
sugar and salt, add boiling water and pour over the beans. 
Add enough boiling water to cover the beans and bake 6 to 
8 hours ; uncover the last hour to allow the beans and pork 
to brown. A five-pound lard pail makes a good baking 
dish for beans. 
Type IV. They may be baked in a loaf, as the following : 
Lentil Loaf 
4 cups lentils (cooked) % lb. salt pork or bacon 

3 cups breadcrumbs or 2 cups Flavorings — Onions, parsn 

cooked rice ley, etc., as desired 

Cook lentils, following directions above. Mash fine, add 



LEGUMES 



41 



rice or bread crumbs and flavorings chopped fine. Form 
into a loaf resembling meat loaf, place in baking pan, lay- 
pork or bacon, sliced thin, over the top, and bake in mod- 
erate oven until meat is crisp and brown. 

Lima Bean Loaf, Navy Bean Loaf, Kidney Bean 
LoAFj all may be prepared in the same way, or the loaf 
may be made from leftovers of different kinds, mixed. 

Type V. They may be creamed by adding white sauce. 

Creamed Kidney Beans 
Cook kidney beans according to directions given. For 
each cup of beans add one cup of white sauce made by 
recipe on page 70, or by directions given there for creamed 
carrots. 

Lima Beans also are especially good creamed. 

Vegetable Stews 

Stews may be made with vegetables without meat, or 

with only a small amount used for flavoring. If one of the 

legumes is used for the basis of the stew, it will, with bread 

and milk, form a good lunch or supper. 

Lentil Stew 

1 cup lentils 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups diced potatoes 3 slices bacon or salt pork 
Wash lentils and soak over night ; boil 3 hours, acM pota- 
toes and boil for 20 minutes. Fry bacon, remove from pan, 
and stir flour in the fat. Add i cup water and boil until 
thick. Add this gravy and the bacon cut into small pieces 
to the stew. 

Beans, lima beans, kidney beans, or black-eyed peas may 
be used instead of lentils. 

Jungle Stew 
154 cup kidney beans _ i onion 

yi cup macaroni or rice 4 tablespoons drippings 

J^ can tomatoes seasoning to taste 

Wash and soak beans over night, boil 3 hours. Brown 
sliced onions in frying pan, with drippings, add to stew with 
tomatoes, seasoning and the macaroni broken into bits. Sim- 
mer a half hour. 

Navy beans, lentils or lima beans may be used instead 
of the kidney beans. 

Split Peas with Carrots 

3 cups carrots (cooked) 3 cups green split peas (cooked) 

Salt and pepper to taste 



42 LOW COST COOKING 

Cut the carrots in }4-inch cubes, mash the peas fine and 
add enough water to make them like a very thick soup. 
Minced onions or parsley may be added if additional sea- 
soning is desired. Put the things all together and reheat. 

Succotash 

Succotash is green corn, fresh or canned, combined with 
beans, green or dried. 

Lima Bean Succotash 

1/2 can corn 2 cups cooked lima beans 

2 tablespoons drippings salt and pepper to taste 

Heat corn and beans together, add seasoning and, if 
desired, a little milk. 

For the use of legumes in soups, see page 50. 

White Sauce 

White sauce or cream sauce sometimes called milk sauce 
or gravy, is much used to blend foods and add flavor. It 
also adds food value in inexpensive form. Milk, flour, fat 
and seasoning are the usual ingredients. All or part of the 
milk may be replaced by water, meat, fish, or chicken stock, 
and fruit or vegetable juices. For the fat, drippings, oleo, 
butter, lard, crisco, etc., may be used. 

Thin Sauce. Medium Sauce. Thick Sauce. 

I tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons flour 3-4 tablespoons flour 

I tablespoon fat 2 tablespoons fat 2-4 tablespoons fat 

54 teaspoon salt J4 teaspoon salt J4-H teaspoon salt 

Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper 

etc. etc. I cup liquid 

I cup liquid I cup liquid 

Suitable for cream- For general use Basis of croquettes, 

ed potatoes, maca- with fish and most meat loaf, etc. 
roni, toast, etc. vegetables. 

""> Methods of mixing: (i) Melt fat in saucepan, stir until 
I frothy all over, then add liquid slowly, hot or cold, while 
' stirring; cook again until thick, stirring until smooth. 

(2) Rub fat and flour together and stir into the warm 
liquid in a double boiler, then cook and stir until thick and 
smooth. 

(3) When less fat is used, rub the flour smoothly with 
a little cold liquid and stir into the remainder, which 
should be hot, and cook in double boiler until smooth. 
Then add fat and seasoning. 



VEGETABLES 

Besides the starch and sugar they contain, which furnish 
energy for the body, vegetables have in them minerals 
which are necessary to health. If we do not get these min- 
erals in our food, we will probably be compelled to get them 
in the form of medicine, which means that we must buy 
the medicine as well as pay a doctor for prescribing for us. 
For example, the person who has a pallid color is probably 
anemic. He needs iron, and instead of taking an iron tonic 
it is much better to get iron into the blood by eating foods 
rich in iron, such as carrots, spinach, prunes, turnips and 
other fruits and vegetables. During the summer by watch- 
ing the markets and wagons we can usually get a good 
variety of fresh vegetables at reasonable prices. In the 
winter, we have wiiat is known as winter vegetables. 

COMMON WINTER VEGETABLES 

Price per Pound Time for Cooking 

Carrots i to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Rutabaga l to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Onion I to 2 cts. 30 min. to 2 hours 

Beets I to 3 cts. i hour to 3 hours 

Parsnips 2 to 4 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Celery root 3 to S cts. 30 min. to i hour 

Cabbage 2 to 4 cts. 20 min. to 40 min. 

Turnip l to 3 cts. 20 min. to 30 min. 

Directions for Cooking Vegetables 

When these vegetables are to be served creamed, but- 
tered, browned, etc., they should first be pared and cut into 
pieces, after being carefully washed. Cook until tender in 
boiling salted water. Beets are an exception to this rule, 
as they should be cooked whole with the skin on. The time 
for cooking varies with the age of the vegetable and the 
size of the pieces into which it is cut. 

As the valuable minerals which the vegetables contain are 
soluble, much of them go into the water in which the 
vegetable is cooked. For this reason none of it should be 
thrown away. If it cannot be served with the vegetable it 
should be used for soups. 

In steaming and baking there is no loss of minerals and 
these methods may sometimes be used. 

. 43 



44 LOW COST COOKING 

Buttered Beets 

Cook beets, following directions above. When tender 
remove outer skin by rubbing it off with the fingers under 
running water. Slice, and add butter, oleo or drippings, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. 

Rutabaga, parsnips, onions, and turnips may all be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Creamed Rutabaga 

Cook in large pieces until tender. When done cut in 
half-inch cubes, add white sauce and serve hot. 

Creamed Carrot, Turnip, Celery Root, and Parsnip 
are prepared in the same way. 

Hashed Cabbage 

When cooked tender, drain off the water in which the 
cabbage has been cooked, which should be saved for adding 
flavoring to soup. Chop cabbage fine, add 2 tablespoons of 
water, 2 tablespoons drippings, salt and pepper to taste. 
Set back on fire for a few minutes until flavorings are ab- 
sorbed, stirring constantly. Serve hot. 

Hashed Turnips and Rutabaga are prepared in the 
same way. , 

Scalloped Onion 

Remove the outer skin from onions ; boill whole until 
tender. Place onions in baking dish with alternate layers 
of bread crumbs, cover with milk, water or mijcture of milk 
and water; cover top of dish with bread crumbs, brown in 
oven. 

Scalloped turnips, cabbage and tomatoes are prepared in 
the same way. 

Browned Parsnips 

When parsnips are cooked tender, cut in half-inch slices, 
long way; brown in oven with bits of bacon over the top, 
or in a frying pan with drippings. 

Potatoes 
Potatoes must be treated differently from other vegeta- 
bles because of the large proportion of starch they contain. 
When properly cooked, potatoes are dry and mealy. Soggy, 
watery potatoes are difficult to digest and unwholesome. 
Follow directions carefully to avoid this. 



VEGETABLES 45 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes carefully, leave whole or cut in 
uniform size and drop into boiling salted water. Boil 
until tender but not longer. Test the potatoes by sticking 
a knife or fork tine into it to determine when it is tender. 
They will usually be done in 30 minutes. When done, drain 
all the water off at once and set the kettle back on a very 
low fire with the cover partly on until the remaining mois- 
ture is gone. Add drippings for seasoning. 

Boiling potatoes with the skins on saves much waste. 
Wash the potatoes, drop into boiling salted water and boil 
until tender. Drain off water, break the skin of each potato 
so that it will not become soggy, and set kettle on back of 
stove to dry out moisture. 

Mashed Potatoes 
Mash boiled potatoes, add drippings and milk, and beat 
well. Keep hot but uncovered until served. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut boiled or baked potatoes in half-inch cubes, add white 
sauce and reheat. To each cup of potatoes add J^ to i cup 
white sauce. 

Creamed Potatoes with Cheese 

Prepare creamed potatoes as above. Set kettle on back 
of stove and add cheese grated or chopped fine. Stir occa- 
sionally until cheese is melted, but do not let it boil, as a 
high degree of heat will make the cheese stringy and 
tough. To each cup of potatoes i to 2 tablespoons cheese 
may be used. 

Hashed Potatoes 

Chop cold boiled or baked potatoes fine, put into a hot 
greased frying pan, and brown. Chopped leftover meat 
may be added. 

Baked Potatoes 

Choose medium sized, smooth potatoes, wash, bake for 
one hour in a hot oven. As soon as they are taken up, 
break the skin to let out the moisture. If this is left in they 
will soon become soggy. 

Scalloped Potatoes 
Fill baking dish with alternate layers of sliced potatoes 
and onions, add salt and pepper to taste, add milk or milk 



46 LOW COST COOKING 

and water to cover. Put layer of bread crumbs over top 
and bake 1 34 to 2 hours or until potatoes and onions are 
cooked. Leftover potatoes may be used, in which case 
much less time will be required for cooking. One-half 
hour will usually be sufificient to cook the onions, if sliced 
thin. 

Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet potatoes contain more nourishment than white 
potatoes, so that at 3 cents per pound they are about as 
expensive in proportion to their food value as white pota- 
toes at 2 cents per pound. They are not, however, so easily 
digested. 

They are boiled or baked in exactly the same way as 
white potatoes. 

SUMMER VEGETABLES 

Almost all the vegetables listed under winter vegetables 
are to be obtained all summer at still lower prices than 
those named. In addition the vegetables in the following 
table may, in season, be obtained at reasonable prices: 

Time for Cooking 

Spinach and other greens 30 to 40 minutes 

Beet greens 50 minutes 

Green corn 15 to 30 minutes 

Kohlrabi 20 to 40 minutes 

Asparagus IS to 30 minutes 

String beans J4 to I hour 

Peas 20 to 30 minutes 

Artichokes 30 minutes 

Lettuce (served raw). (See Salads.) 
Radishes (served raw). 

Spinach and Other Greens 
Spinach and other greens must be very carefully washed 
through 4 or 5 waters until all of the dirt and sand caught 
in the leaves is removed. When clean drop into boiling 
water and cook until tender. Evaporate most of the water, 
add salt, pepper, and drippings or oleo. 

Beet Greens 
Leave small beet root and top together. Wash carefully ; 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Add seasoning 
as above, or milk. 



VEGETABLES 



47 



Com on Cob 

Remove husk, cut out any decayed part; wash ears and 
drop into boiling unsalted water; cook 15 to 30 minutes, 
according to age. Salted water turns the corn yellow. 
Serve hot with salt. 

Kohlrabi 

Wash and pare; cut in slices or cubes and cook until 
tender. Add salt, pepper and drippings or oleomargarine. 
They may also be served creamed by adding white sauce. 

String Beans 

Wash, remove strings and break into i-inch pieces. Cook 
in boiling salted water until tender. Add drippings for 
seasoning. They may be seasoned by a piece of salt pork 
which is put on in the beginning and cooked with the beans. 

Peas 

Shell peas ; cook until tender in boiling water. Add salt, 
pepper and drippings or oleomargarine for seasoning; or 
they may be creamed by adding white sauce. 



SALADS 

Vegetable foods that may be eaten raw, such as lettuce, 
tomatoes, cabbage, cucumbers, cress and celery, are most 
suitable for salads. All sorts of cooked vegetables, how- 
ever, and raw or cooked fruits may be dressed and served 
cold as salads. Combinations that are good are cold boiled 
kidney beans with chopped celery, cold boiled peas with 
carrots, chopped cabbage with celery or nuts, sliced cucum- 
bers with lettuce, tomatoes with lettuce, apples with celery. 
Chopped peanuts may be added to all of these if desired. 
In mixing a salad have all materials as cold as possible. 
Mix with the dressing. All kinds may be served on let- 
tuce leaves or with sprigs of cress. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole egg 
1/3 cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour J4 teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons oleo or crisco % teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with oleo and part of milk, 
add remaining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back 
of stove, add egg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the egg. 
Add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix thoroughly. 

Oil Dressing for Salad 

6 tablespoons oil 2 teaspoons salt 

I to 2 tablespoons vinegar or % teaspoon paprika 
lemon juice 

The oil used may be olive, cottonseed or peanut. Olive 
oil costs from 65 cents to $1.25 per quart, while cottonseed 
and peanut oils cost 25 to 45 cents, have the same food 
value, and a very pleasant flavor. 

Put salt and paprika in dish with vinegar or lemon 
juice and mix thoroughly. Pour in the oil slowly, beating 
all the time. 

48 



SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into the two general classes ; those 
made with meat and those without. 

Soups with Meat. Meat is used to give flavor. In 
order to extract the juices which contain the flavoring ma- 
terial the meat should be started to cook in cold water and 
cooked slowly for a long time. This leaves the meat itself 
tasteless, but it still contains most of its food value and 
should always be used. It can either be served with the 
soup so that its lack of flavor will not be noticed or it may 
be served in combination with a highly-flavored vegetable 
such as tomatoes or onions. 

Additions to Meat Soups. The soup itself made in this 
way has a pleasing taste and acts as a stimulant to digestion, 
but contains very little food. To make it more nourishing 
other food materials may be added. For example, a cereal 
such as rice or barley ; a flour preparation such as macaroni, 
noodles, or dumplings ; or a legume such as beans, peas or 
lentils. 

Fat with Soup. Soup containing much fat from the 
meat should not be given to young children or to adults 
with delicate stomachs, as it is difficult to digest and may 
cause digestive disturbances. To remove the fat set the 
soup aside to cool. When the fat has risen to the top and 
hardened remove it, reheat the soup and serve. 

Soup Stock from Bones. Always save the bones of the 
chicken or other fowl, fish, or those from roast, pot roast 
or chops. If the bones are large crack them, cover well 
with cold water and cook slowly five or six hours. Strain 
out the bones, add vegetables for seasoning and rice or 
barley for nourishment and cook until these are well done. 

49 



50 LOW COST COOKING 

Seasoning for Soups and Stews. The success of a ' 
soup lies largely in the flavoring. Any cook may by making 
a few experiments in combining flavors find those most 
pleasing to the taste of the people for whom she cooks. Do 
not be afraid to try new combinations of flavoring. 

Some favorite flavorings are tomatoes, onion, celery, 
turnip, carrot, cabbage, parsley and bay leaves. A com- 
bination of several different flavors is usually better liked 
than a single one. 

The tough leaves of celery, unfitted for other uses, 
should always be dried in the sun or oven and kept in a 
fruit jar for future use. Parsley may be dried in the same 
way; or better still grown in a window box so as always 
to be ready for use. 

No water in which vegetables have been cooked should 
ever be thrown away, but kept to add flavoring to soups. 

To Serve with Soup. Bread, toast, croutons or crackers 
are usually served with soup. Crackers are more expensive 
than the other materials, as a pound of crackers contains 
only a little more nourishment than a pound of bread. The 
crackers cost lO cents per pound in bulk and i6 cents per 
pound in packages, while bakers' bread costs 6% cents per 
pound and may be made at home for half that amount. 

Croutons. Croutons are made of bread toasted a light 
brown all the way through. Cut stale bread in round, 
square or oblong pieces or in one-inch cubes and set in a 
slow oven until brown. In serving, the cubes may be 
dropped on the bowl of soup just before it is taken to the 
table. 

Soups Without Meat. Soups without meat are usually 
made of vegetables or legumes with or without the addi- 
tion of milk. 

Cream Soups. A cream soup is a very thin white sauce, 
flavored with vegetable. It should be smooth and about as 
thick as thin cream. 



SOUPS 



SI 



Cream of Lima Bean Soup 

3 cups lima beans (cooked) 3 tablespoons drippings or 
lYi cups milk suet 

Ij4 cups water 2 tablespoons flour 

li, teaspoon pepper ij^ teaspoons salt 

If additional seasoning is desired use i tablespoon each of 
onion, celery, parsley, etc., or any one of them alone. 

Melt suet, stir in flour, add water and boil for 5 minutes. 
If onion or celery is used for flavoring add it chopped fine 
to the suet before adding flour. Put beans through a 
colander or mash them fine ; add them and the milk to the 
soup. Do not boil again, but keep hot until served. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, split peas, green peas, com 
and potatoes may be used instead of the lima beans. The 
potatoes and peas should be mashed fine and the beans and 
corn crushed through a colander before being added. 

Purees are thick soups, usually made without milk. 
Puree of Split Pea 

4 cups split peas (cooked) i tablespoon flour 
2 cups water l teaspoon salt 

2 slices fat pork Ys, teaspoon pepper 

For additional flavoring, if desired, i tablespoon each of 
onion, parsley, celery, etc., may be used. 

Fry pork until crisp and break or cut into small bits. 
Stir flour into the pork and drippings. Add water and boil 
5 minutes. If onion, celery or any of the flavoring mate- 
rials requiring cooking are used, chop fine and add to drip- 
pings before stirring in the flour. Add peas, mashed fine, 
and salt and pepper. This soup may be made more nutri- 
tious by using milk instead of part of the water. It should 
be added last so that the mixture need not boil afterwards. 
Just before serving sprinkle cube shaped croutons over the 
top of the bowl. 

Navy beans, lima beans, kidney beans, carrots, green peas 
or com may be used instead of the split peas. When beans 
are used tomatoes may be used for flavoring. 
Sour Cream Soup 
4 cups broken bread 3 tablespoons sour cream 

3 cups water 3 tablespoons drippings 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Stir bread in hot drippings until brown; add hot water 
and let the mixture stand a few minutes until the bread is 
soaked. Just before serving add seasoning and sour cream. 



52 LOW COST COOKING 

Potato Soup with Leek 

S medium-sized potatoes 4 slices salt pork 

1 leek 2 tablespoons flour 

yi onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil potatoes and leek together until soft and mash them 
in the water in which they are cooked. Fry salt pork crisp, 
break into small bits, stir flour and chopped up onion into 
drippings and add the whole to potatoes and leek. Add 
sufficient water to form thick soup. 
Bean Soup 

An excellent household manager says; 

"A very good soup is made when you prepare beans to 
bake. Soak the beans over night, rinse and put on to boil 
in the morning with plenty of cold water. Boil until beans 
are soft, using a small piece of fat pork or bacon for sea- 
soning. When soft, take out beans in baking dish, leaving 
about two cupfuls in the water. Add more water, let sim- 
mer on back of the stove. Season the beans, using syrup 
to sweeten if desired, also the pork and arrange in pan to 
bake. Put them aside for supper, baking slowly with 
plenty of water on them. About one hour before dinner, 
cut up about 3 medium sized potatoes, two onions and a 
carrot into the soup. Let cook thoroughly and serve hot 
with toast or crackers. This will make a very good dinner, 
leaving the baked beans for supper. Try this on baking 
day. The soup will use up all the stale bread, and fresh 
biscuits with syrup and the baked beans with stewed toma- 
toes make a fine supper." 

Thin Soups without Milk 

Soups of the same thickness as cream soups may be 
made of vegetables without milk. 

Bean and Tomato Soup 

3 cups boiled beans i small onion 

1 cup tomatoes i tajblespoon mixed parsley 

2 cups water _ _ 2 tdblespoons flour 

3 tablespoons drippings 

Mince onion and parsley, add to melted drippings and 
cook. Stir in the flour, add water and boil. Add beans 
mashed fine and tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. 

Split peas, kidney beans, lentils, string beans, green peas, 
corn, potatoes or potatoes mixed with parsnips may be 
used instead of beans. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 

When a dessert is served it should round out the meal, 
furnishing something which is lacking. If the meal has 
not contained enough starchy food use a dessert made of 
rice, tapioca or bread. 

Fresh fruit, raw, stewed or baked, makes a good dessert. 
In cooking, use the skin of the fruit if it cooks tender. Dried 
fruits are useful in times when fresh ones are most expen- 
sive. Dried Fruits 

Wash carefully; soak over night; cook slowly in same 
water; add sugar to taste. 

Apples, apricots, peaches, dates, raisins, currants and 
prunes are to be cooked in this way. Combining two or 
more of these is sometimes better than one alone. 

Apples may be combined with either prunes or raisins, 
peaches with apricots, etc., using a fruit containing much 
acid with one containing little. 

Baked Banana 
Baked bananas are more easily digested than raw ones. 
Peel the banana and cut lengthwise into halves; lay in 
baking pan and bake them about 15 minutes in moderate 
oven. Serve sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice. 

Baked Rhubarb 

Wash rhubarb, cut into half-inch pieces, place in baking 
dish, sprinkle generously with sugar, and add small amount 
of water, just enough to start it, as it contains much water. 
Bake in a slow oven for about ij4 hours, or until pieces 
are tender. Rj^g Pudding 

I quart skim milk, or i pint J4 teaspoon salt 

whole milk and i pint water J^ cup sugar 
J4 cup rice 

Mix ingredients together, pour in a greased baking dish, 
bake three hours in a very slow oven, stirring frequently 
to prevent the rice from sticking to the bottom of the dish. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Rice with Fruit 
Boiled or streamed rice, with stewed fruit which has been 
cooked with plenty of water, poured over it, makes a good 

S3 



54 LOW COST COOKING 

dessert. Prunes, black or red plums and peaches are espe- 
cially good for this. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons chocolate or 

% cup sugar cocoa 

5 tablespoons flour J4 teaspoon salt 

Mix flour, sugar and chocolate, add milk and boil, stir- 
ring constantly to prevent lumping, until mixture thickens. 
Serve hot or cold with milk or cream. 

Indian Pudding 
I quart scalded milk Yi cup cornmeal 

Yi cup molasses I teaspoon salt 

Pour the milk slowly on the meal and cook in double 
boiler for 15 minutes. Pour into a greased baking dish, and 
bake 2 hours or more in a slow oven. 

Brown Betty 

Place a layer of sour apples, pared and cut in thin slices, 
in the bottom of a baking dish. Sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon or nutmeg, add layer of toasted bread crumbs and 
another of apple and so on to the top of the dish. Scatter 
a few bits of suet over the top layer of crumbs. Add 
enough water to moisten the crumbs well and bake in a 
slow oven, covered, until apples are done. Instead of raw 
apples, apple sauce made of dried apples may be used. 

Berry Betty, Plum Betty, Date Betty, etc., may be made 
in the same way, using these fruits instead of apples. Any 
juicy fruit may be used. The toasted bread may be used 
in whole slices instead of crumbed. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

I cup flour I tablespoon oleo, cottosuet 

1 egg or drippings 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons milk J^ teaspoon salt 

Sift flour with salt and baking powder. Add drippings 
and rub through flour with finger tips. Add egg and milk. 
Mix with knife. 

Cherries, rhubarb, plums, fresh or dried apples, fresh or 
dried peaches, etc., may be used for fruit. Stew with 
plenty of water. While fruit is boiling drop dough on top 
by tablespoonfuls. Cover kettle and cook for 20 minutes 
without lifting cover. Remove cover and set in oven for a 
few minutes. Serve hot. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 55 

Flavoring for Desserts 
The good flavoring extracts on the market are expensive, 
and the economical housekeeper should study the use of 
other materials which cost less. Spices, especially nutmeg, 
mace, ginger and cinnamon, may be used in cake instead of 
vanilla. Caraway and poppy seed may be used in cookies 
and sweet breads. Caramel is a pleasing flavor, and when 
made at home is very inexpensive. 

Caramel 

1 cup sugar Yi cup water 

Boil sugar and water until it becomes a thick medium 
brown mixture. Remove from fire, add enough hot water 
to make a thick syrup. If cold water is put into the hot 
syrup it will pop out and may injure the cook. Another 
method is to heat the sugar in a dry pan until it melts and 
browns, then add hot water and boil until it becomes a thick 
syrup. Caramel made in this way may be set aside in a 
covered dish or jelly glass, to be used as needed. It will not 
spoil and needs only to be kept clean. 

Cake 

The success of a cake lies more in the mixing and baking 
than in the richness of the ingredients. Measure carefully 
and follow directions closely. In baking, keep the heat of 
the oven as even as possible and do not allow the cake to 
be jarred or cold air to strike it while it is baking. When 
it is done, the edges will shrink from the pan and the. sur- 
face will be firm to the touch. 

Plain Cake 

2 cups sifted flour i or 2 eggs 

I cup sugar 3 tablespoons oleomargarine 

1 cup liquid 4 teaspoons baking powder 

(milk, or milk and water) 

Flavoring — % teaspoon mace, nutmeg or other spices ; 
I tablespoon caramel, etc. 

Mix sugar, oleomargarine and tgg yolks thoroughly to- 
gether. Add the liquid and all except J4 cup of the flour 
and beat the mixture hard for five minutes. Add the 
tgg whites beaten stiff, the remaining flour mixed and sifted 
with the baking powder, mix quickly and pour into a but- 
tered pan. Bake in a moderate oven. 



56 LOW COST COOKING 

It may be baked in a loaf, in layers, or made into cup 
cakes by baking in muffin pan. 

Cottage Pudding 
Cut plain cake while still warm in squares, and pour over 
it chocolate, caramel, or lemon sauce, or stewed fruit. 
Chocolate or Caramel Sauce 
1 5^ cups boiling water J4 cup cocoa or grated choco- 

54 cup sugar late or 2 tablespoons cara- 

3 tablespoons flour mel, made as above 

Mix dry ingredients together and add cold water to 
moisten, pour on boiling water, stirring constantly, and boil 
five minutes. Nutmeg Sauce. 

Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add i table- 
spoonful oleomargarine and J4 teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 
Lemon Sauce 
Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add 2 table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice after it is ofif the fire. 
Spice Cake 
2 cups flour I egg 

I cup brown sugar J^ teaspoon soda 

Yi cup melted drippings ij^ teaspoons baking powder 

Yi cup sour milk I teaspoon cinnamon 

J4 each teaspoon allspice and cloves 
Mix egg, sugar, drippings and sour milk. Add flour 
mixed and sifted with spices, soda and baking powder; 
mix well; bake in shallow, well-greased pan. If no 
sour milk is to be had use sweet milk or water, leave out 
soda and use 4 teaspoons baking powder. Other spices may 
be used instead of those named. For chocolate cake add 
^ cup cocoa. 

Quick Cup Cakes (Lightning Cake). 
Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
ij^ cups of flour, ^ cup of fine granulated or brown 
sugar, 3 level teaspoons of baking powder, J4 teaspoon of 
salt. Sift in the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt yi cup oleo or crisco or lard, 
break in i or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add ^ 
teaspoon flavoring extract or J^ teaspoon of spice. Mix 
with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For Chocolate Cake add 3 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 57 

Oat Meal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Yi cup flour 3 tablespoons oleo or drippings 

I cup sugar I pinch salt 

1 egg 4 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten egg and milk. Add more 
milk if necessary to moisten ingredients ; drop by teaspoon- 
fuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

Bran Cookies 

Beat I ^gg well, add to it J4 cup melted fat,. J4 cup brown 
sugar, J4 cup milk, and J^ cup molasses. Sift into this ij4 
cups white flour to which has been added J^ teaspoonful 
soda, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and J4 teaspoonful 
salt. Beat well, then add i^ cups bran and i cup raisins 
chopped. Mix well and drop from the tip of a spoon onto 
greased pans. Bake in a moderate oven. 

— Ginger Bread 

2 cups flour I teaspoon ginger 
5^, cup sugar H cup molasses 

Yi cup hot water 2 teaspoons baking powder 

S tablespoons melted drip- Yz teaspoon soda 

pings Y2 teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to the molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour I cup finely chopped suet 

2 cups breadcrumbs i cup sugar 

I cup milk or water J4 teaspoon salt 

grating of nutmeg 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, and 
set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an hour. 

For boiling tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 2j^ to '3 hours. It may be baked in the same way 
that a cake or pudding is baked. 



58 LOW COST COOKING 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces or as a cake without 
sauce. One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pud- 
ding, or a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be 
added to give variety. 

Caramel Junket 

I quart milk i to 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 junket tablet, dissolved in i tablespoon lukewarm water 
Junket tablets are bought at a drug store for 10 cents a 

package. When added to milk junket causes it to become 
solid and it is then more easily digested. Directions must 
be very carefully followed. It is very useful for invalids 
and children. 

Brown i tablespoonful of sugar in a hot stewpan. Add 
the milk and leave on fire until sugar is all dissolved. Add 
more sugar if desired, and cool until lukewarm. Add the 
dissolved junket tablet, stir, pour mixture into dessert 
dishes and let stand until it jellies. Serve very cold. 

Lemon Jelly 

% box gelatin % cup lemon juice 

^2 cup sugar Speck of salt 

Soak gelatin in a little cold water, pour on boiling water 
to dissolve it, add sugar and lemon juice and make up to i 
pint with cold water. Strain, set in cool place to harden. 
Orange and other fruit jellies made in the same way. 

CANDY 

A small amount of candy is useful in feeding children. 
\Vhen made at home by simple recipes, candy is one of our 
cheapest foods. It should be given children after meals 

°"ly- Caramel Cream Candy 

2 cups sugar ij4 cups water 
Heat Yi cup sugar in hot stew pan until it melts and 

turns a medium brown. Add remaining sugar and water 
and boil slowly so that it will be at least 30 minutes before 
it is done. Test by dropping }4 teaspoonful into a cup of 
very cold water. When it is cooked enough the syrup will 
harden in the water until it can be rolled by the fingers into 
a firm ball. It should not be hard enough to be brittle. 
Set aside to cool, and begin to beat when lukewarm. It will 
become lighter in color, and as soon as it begins to grain 
very slightly pour into a buttered plate and cut into squares. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 59 

Brittle 
Brittle is made from melted sugar. It may be combined 
with nuts and made into peanut brittle, walnut brittle, etc., 
or left plain. 

Place the amount of sugar to be used in a stewpan or 
frying pan, and melt over a low fire. Stir frequently and 
watch constantly or the sugar will brown too much while 
melting. It should be a very light brown when done. To 
cool, turn a tin pie pan upside down and pour the melted 
sugar on this. Scour the bottom of the pan before using 
and do not pour on enough to allow it to run over the 
sides. The nuts, if used, are added just before pouring 
out. They may be chopped fine or used whole. As soon 
as the candy is cool it may be easily broken loose from the 
pan by striking the inside of the pan. 

The brittle may be made light if desired by adding >4 
teaspoonful soda to the candy made from 3 cups sugar. Sift 
it in and shake pan well to mix, then pour out quickly. 
FROZEN DESSERTS 
Frozen desserts are useful in very hot weather and may 
be made at home instead of allowing children to buy cheap 
ice cream cones which are often unclean and unwholesome. 

Ice Cream 
I quart milk I cup sugar 

4 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons caramel or 

I egg browned sugar 

y^ teaspoon salt 
Mix sugar and flour, add 2 cups milk and boil. Remove 
from fire, add &gg, well beaten, stir and allow mixture to 
stand 10 minutes to cook the e.gg. Add other ingredients, 
cool and freeze. Fruit Ice 

4 cups water 2 cups sugar 

Yi, cup fruit juice (lemon, orange, plum, grape, etc., or a 
mixture of several) 
Boil sugar and water for 10 minutes. Cool, add fruit 
juice and freeze. 

To Freeze. Place the mixture to be frozen in a granite 
pail with a lid. The ice cream may be frozen in a good tin 
pail or in a baking powder can. Place the pail or can in a 
larger Vessel with layer of chopped ice under inside pail, 
then pack space between pails with chopped ice mixed with 
coarse salt. Use i cup salt to 3 cups ice. Turn inner pail 



6o LOW COST COOKING 

constantly until mixture begins to freeze, then scrape from 
sides of pail, turn again, scrape, and so on until thick. 

Children love to do the freezing and three pails or cans of 
ice cream can be frozen at once in a dishpan half full of 
cracked ice. 

PRESERVES, JELLIES AND MARMALADES 

A combination of fruit and sugar, boiled until the fruit 
is cooked and the product is sweet and thick, is a useful 
food, and fairly economical when the fruit can be secured 
at the low price it can often be bought for during the height 
of the season. In jam and marmalade the whole of the 
fruit is used and they are for that reason more economical 
than jelly, which uses only the juice. The two methods may 
be combined sometimes, jam or marmalade being made from 
the pulp of the fruit after part of the juice has been drained 
off for jelly. 

Jams, Butters and Marmalades 

Cook fruit until soft with as little water as possible. 
Remove seeds by running through a colander, add ^ to I 
cup sugar to each cup of fruit and boil until the desired 
thickness is reached. Jams and butters are made thick 
enough to drop from the spoon, while marmalade is a little 
thinner. They may be made of plums, peaches, apples, 
grapes, berries of all kinds, tomatoes and many other fruits. 

Preserves 

Wash small fruit such as plums and berries and use 
whole. Large fruits such as peaches and pears should be 
pared and cut into pieces. Add J4 to ^ cups of sugar to 
each cup of raw fruit and cook until the desired thickness 
is reached. All of the fruits named above may be used for 
preserves. jeUigs 

In order to make good jelly a fruit must contain both 
acid and a substance called pectin. Some of the fruits good 
for jelly are currants, sour apples, crabapples, under-ripe 
grapes and plums. Peaches, pears, sweet apples and quinces 
alone will not make jelly as they do not contain enough 
acid. 

Extract the juice of the fruit by boiling; drain off the 
juice, strain it and add i cup sugar to each cup of juice. 
Boil S minutes for each cup of juice used, at the end of 



PRESERVES 6l 

which time it will usually be found to be done. The inex- 
perienced cook should test it by setting a small part aside 
to cool. This time rule will not hold if more than 3 cups 
of juice are boiled at once. It is better, however, to boil 
the jelly a little at a time, as large quantities require long 
boiling, which darkens the jelly. Skim off the dark froth 
which rises to the top with boiling. 

Sealing Jams and Preserves. The jam or preserves 
should be poured boiling hot into hot jars or glasses which 
have lain in boiling water for at least 3 minutes. A con- 
venient method for sealing the top is to pour over it when 
cold a layer of melted paraffine. When the fruit is used 
wash the sheet of paraffine and keep it for use again. 

Apple Jelly 

Wash apples well and cut into small pieces. Apple par- 
ings and cores alone may be used as these contain more 
pectin than the rest of the apple. Cook until apples are 
well softened using as little water as possible. Put into a 
clean bag made of thin cloth, such as flour or sugar sack and 
drain until as much juice as possible is out. Put 3 cups 
juice into stew pan with 3 cups of sugar, boil 15 minutes. 
Test by putting a few drops on cold plate and if necessary 
boil longer. Rhubarb and Fig Preserves 

4 pounds rhubarb i pound figs 

3 pounds sugar 

Cut rhubarb and figs into i inch pieces, add sugar and 
let it stand over night. In the morning let it cook slowly 
one hour, until figs are tender. Stir occasionally. 

Date and Prune Jam 

I pound prunes juice from ^ lemon 

I pound dates J4 cup sugar 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, stoned and 
cooked, lemon juice and sugar. Cook mixture until thick. 
In the same way prunes may be combined with figs, and 
figs with dates. Sugar may be omitted. 
Rhubarb Marmalade 
2^2 pounds rhubarb 2 lemons 

3 pounds sugar 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into half-inch pieces. With a sharp knife 
pare off very thin the colored part of the lemon and orange, 



62 LOW COST COOKING 

cut it into small pieces and add to the rhubarb. Remove 
peel of the oranges and lemons, divide them into sections, 
remove seeds and add to mixture. Boil a half hour, add 
sugar and boil very slowly ij^ hours longer. 

APPETIZERS 

Pickles, catsups, etc., have little food value, but are useful 
to a certain extent as appetizers. They should not be used 
at all for children under 7 years of age and very sparingly 
for older children. They are hard for the delicate stom- 
achs of children to digest and spoil the appetite for the 
simple foods they should be taught to eat. The abnormal 
craving for appetizers is either the result of habit or is 
caused by the diet containing too little fruit and vegetables. 
It is much better to satisfy the appetite by adding more of 
these than by using pickles, etc., in large quantities. 

Sour Cucumbers 

6 large cucumbers J^ cup vinegar 

Yi cup sugar spices 

Pare the cucumbers and cut the long way into eighths. 
Cover with hot salted water and cook until tender. Pour 
off water, add vinegar and sugar and enough water to 
cover. Tie i teaspoon ful each of cloves and cinnamon 
in a thin white cloth and drop into the kettle; simmer Yi 
hour. The largest cucumbers that come into the market 
are best for this, which is more easily digested than pickles. 

Tomato Catsup 

Yz peck ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

I tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons mace 

Yi, cup sugar i teaspoon cayenne 
I cup vinegar pepper 

Scald tomatoes and remove skins. Add other ingre- 
dients and boil slowly until reduced one-half, then pass 
through sieve. Reheat and put into clean jars or bottles 
that have lain five minutes in boiling water. Seal tightly. 

Watermelon Rind Pickles 

Remove all the pink pulp and thin green skin'^from the 
rind and cut into cubes or strips. Cover with salt and 
water and boil one-half hour. Drain off the water, make 
enough syrup to cover, using i cup water and J4 cup sugar 



BEVERAGES 63 

to each cup of vinegar. Let the mixture hoil, add whole 
cloves for seasoning and pour over the rind. Boil until 
rind is tender. 

BEVERAGES 

When well made, coffee and tea are suitable drinks for 
adults, but are always harmful to children. They are stim- 
ulants only and contain no food except what is given them 
by the sugar and milk added. ,, 

Coffee 

One of the most important things about making good 
coffee is the care of the coffee pot. Coffee should never 
be used after it has stood on the grounds for an hour or 
more. Always make just enough for the meal and after- 
wards empty the pot, wash, dry and leave open to air 
until next used. If any coffee is left over, however, it may 
be kept good by draining from the grounds and keeping it 
in a covered vessel. It may th^n be used cold or reteated. 
Cold coffee is very refreshingin hot weather. 

Proportions. 2 level (one rounded) tablespoonfuls cof- 
fee makes a strong cup of coffee; Ij4 leygl tablespoonful 
makes medium strong and i level tablespoonful makes weak 
coffee. See page 67 for recipe and directions. 

Tea 

Have teapot hot when tea is put in. Use i teaspoon tea 
to each cup for strong tea, or as much less as is liked. Pour 
water into the pot just as soon as it has boiled. 

Drinks for Children 

Milk or buttermilk is, of course, the best drink for chil- 
dren. If a hot drink is desired, cocoa, cambric or cinnamon 
tea, toast tea or cereal drinks may be given. 

Cocoa 

4 teaspoons cocoa 4 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups water % teaspoon flour 

2 cups milk I pinch salt 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add enough cold water to 
dissolve and add remaining water and boil for 5 minutes 



64 LOW COST COOKING 

or longer. Add milk and heat, but do not allow it to boil 
after the milk is added. Before serving beat with an egg 
beater until it froths. This will prevent a scum from form- 
ing on the top. 

Cambric or Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups milk % teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups boiling water 3 teaspoons sugar 

Serve hot. 

Toast Tea 

I cup toasted breadcrumbs 4 cups water 

Add boiling water to the toasted bread crumbs. Serve 
with sugar and milk as desired. 

Cereal Drinks 

Several cereal drinks, such as Postum, are on the market, 
but are rather expensive. Directions for making comes on 
the package. 

An economical cereal drink may be made by toasting 
barley, wheat, rye or other grains, grinding them in the 
coffee mill and boiling until the water is well colored. 
Serve with sugar and milk as desired. 

Summer Drinks 

Any fruit juice left from stewed or canned fruit can 
be used in making fruit drinks for summer, as well as 
lemon and orange juice. These are both refreshing and 
healthful. 

Cocoa Shells 
I cup shells 6 cups water 

Boil slowly 2 hours, strain and serve with milk and sugar. 



MENUS 

The menus in the following pages are given as samples of 
meals which furnish the food necessary to keep the body 
in health at the least possible cost. If the buying is care- 
fully done and the cooking all done at home these meals 
may be served for the amount of money indicated or even 
less by unusually careful buying. If the buying is care- 
lessly done, however, or if any of the foods are bought 
ready cooked they may easily cost twice as much. 

Only the cheapest materials for furnishing each kind of 
food needed are used. For furnishing energy, cereals, in- 
cluding breadstufifs and fats of meat, bacon strips, suet, 
salad oils and oleomargarine are used. 

For furnishing protein the cheap cuts of meat, cheese and 
legumes are used for adults, milk and eggs for small chil- 
dren. 

For furnishing the mineral the cheapest fresh vegetables 
and fruits of each, season are used. In winter dried fruits, 
root vegetables and canned tomatoes are chiefly used for 
this purpose. 

With only these materials to use it is hard to keep the 
bill of fare from becoming monotonous, and monotony is a 
destroyer of appetite. The menus therefore are planned 
to give as many dififerent ways of preparing these food 
materials as possible and of new combinations. For this 
reason the same dish is seldom given twice, although of 
course a dish that is liked may be repeated several times 
per week without becoming tiresome. 

For the same reason the dishes in most common use, such 
as meat soups and stews, although excellent, are seldom 
used in these menus. Most housekeepers are familiar with 
them, use them largely and do not need to be reminded of 
them. 

Recipes give quantities suitable for serving families of 
six with two adults, of seven with one. 

6s 



WINTER MEALS 

BREAKFAST 
Monday 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES WITH CARAMEL SYRUP 

FRIED BACON STRIP 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS, MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Com Meal Griddle Cakes 

2 cups cornmeal lyi cups liquid, milk and 

1 cup flour water mixed 

2 tablespoons melted drip- 6 teaspoons baking powder 
pings 1% teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid and mix quickly. 
Have ready a hot greased griddle or frying pan, drop the 
mixture in by tablespoonfuls, as many as the pan will hold 
without their touching. Cook on slow fire until the cakes 
are brown on the lower side and the bubbles burst in the 
top; turn each cake to brown on the other side. Cook in 
this way until the batter is all used. Serve hot. 

"Drippings" 

By drippings is meant the fat from roasting, frying or 
boiling meat, fat trimmings, etc. Every bit of fat coming 
into the house should be saved and used. 

When more fat is needed the soft flank fat of beef or 
pork, which sells for about lo cents a pound, may be used. 
Cut the fat into small pieces, removing any skin and bits 
of meat. Cover with cold salted water and let stand for 
4 or 5 hours or over night. This improves keeping qualities 
and flavor. Soak again if there is time. Now melt the 
fat slowly in the oven or over boiling water and cook 
until the scraps are crisp but not brown. Strain into clean 
pails, cans or jars which can be covered. Keep in a cool 
place. Use like lard, Crisco, etc., which costs about 5 cents 
a pound more. When using in recipes calling for butter, 
add more salt and take a little less because butter contains 
salt and is one-eighth water. 

Strongly flavored fats from bacon, ham and sausage 

66 



WINTER MEALS 6/ 

should be kept separate and used for hashes or warming 
over potatoes. Caramel Syrup 

2 cups sugar Vz cup water 

Put sugar and water in stewing pan, boil the syrup, stir- 
ring occasionally until it turns a light brown. Add i cup 
boiling water, and boil until of thickness desired. 

Fried Bacon Strips 
Cut thin slices of bacon from the strip. Remove skin and 
rind, lay the slices in a cold frying pan, cook until crisp and 
brown, turning as necessary. 

Bacon strips are the odd-shaped pieces of bacon cut from the side 
in the process of trimming. It sells for 14 to 22 cents per pound in 
pieces weighing 4 to 8 pounds. 

Coffee 

J4 cup ground coffee 2 cups (i pint) boiling water 

Moisten coffee with cold water ; add to boihng water and 
boil from one to three minutes. Keep hot without boiling 
for ten minutes longer. Add 2 tablespoons of cold water 
to settle the grounds and it is ready to serve. 

If a crushed egg-shell is added to the ground coffee with 
the cold water when making it will settle more easily and 
surely. Do not allow the coffee to stand on the grounds; 
if not served at once, pour off and keep hot. See that the 
coffee pot is well washed and aired. Ground coffee loses 
flavor and strength, and if possible it is best to grind the 
coffee in a small hand mill just before making. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water to boil for coffee; set table except for the 
plates, which should be heated in some convenient way. Cut 
and prepare bacon. Make coffee if water has boiled. Meas- 
ure out ingredients for griddle cakes, mix them and start 
cooking, placing the cakes as they are done on a plate over 
a pan of boiling water. When the cakes are half done 
fry the bacon attending to both at the same time. The hot 
drippings from the bacon may be used with the cakes. 

Wash the top of the milk bottle, remove stopper and 
pour off the top of the milk for coffee; put the rest in 
glasses for the children. Serve the cakes on the hot plates, 
settle and pour the coffee. 



68 LOW COST COOKING 

,, , LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Monday 

RICE WITH TOMATOES AND CHEESE 

BREAD AND OLEO 

TEA FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rice with Tomatoes and Cheese 

I cup rice 2-inch cube of cheese 

Yt. can tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

J4 teaspoon pepper 

Wash the rice, sift it slowly into about 5 cups of boiling, 
salted water. Boil 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally 
with a fork. When done evaporate the water by leaving it 
partly covered on a low fire. Add the tomatoes and pepper 
and boil. Pour into vegetable dish, and grate the cheese 
over the top. 

Tea 
ij^ teaspoonful tea 2 cups boiling water 

Put the tea into a hot teapot, and pour the water freshly 
boiled over it. Steep i to 3 minutes, never longer. Do not 
make the tea until ready to serve it, for tea becomes bitter 
and harmful if allowed to stand on the leaves. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the rice a half hour before meal time. While it is 
cooking, set the table and put on the water for the tea. 
Finish the rice and make the tea. 

,, , DINNER 

Monday 

MEAT SOUP WITH CEREAL AND VEGETABLES 

TOASTED BREAD 

DRIED APPLE COBBLER 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Meat Soup with Cereal and Vegetables 

2j/^ pounds soup beef 2 tablespoons celery leaves or 

1 cup barley, rice or parsley 

macaroni 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 tablespoons onion 2 cups carrot or celery root 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Choose shank, shoulder bone or neck bones, or any cheap 
cuts of beef, part lean and part bone. A piece which is Yz 
lean meat, the rest bone with a little fat, is best for soups. 



WINTER MEALS 69 

Wipe the meat clean with a cloth, wet with cold water, 
remove the fat if there is too much. Try it out in 
the oven and use as drippings. Do not allow the soup 
to be so greasy as to spoil the digestion of a child. Cover 
the meat (cut in rather small pieces) with cold water and 
allow it to cook slowly, but not boil, for from 6 to 10 
hours. Add barley 2 hours before meal time. Wash and 
pare the vegetables, cut them in J^ inch cubes, and add i 
hour before meal time. Mince onion and celery leaves fine 
and add with the vegetables. 

Dried Apple Cobbler 

ij4 cups dried apples i teaspoon cinnamon or nutmeg 

Yi cup sugar 

Wash dried apples very carefully, soak 6 hours, or over 
night, cook slowly in same water until tender. Add sugar 
and place in baking dish. Sprinkle more sugar and cinna- 
mon or nut meg over top. Cover with the crust made as 
below, bake until brown in a moderately hot oven. Serve 
hot. Use fresh apples instead of dried when they are as 
cheap. Crust for Cobbler 

1 cup flour i^ tablespoons fat 
Vi cup milk or water Yi teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift flour with salt and baking powder, rub the 
fat into the flour with the finger tips, add milk and mix 
with a knife. Turn the dough on a floured board, and roll 
or pat to the thickness of J4 inch. 
Preparing the Meal 

Wash apples and put to soak the night before. Start the 
meat to cook for soup immediately after breakfast, and 
let it simmer on back of range all day. About two hours 
before dinner time add the barley to the soup, and put 
the dried apples on to cook. Prepare the vegetables and 
add them to the soup; J^ hour before meal time make 
pie crust and put pie in oven. Put bread in oven to toast ; 
make coffee and set table. 
Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OAT MEAL MUSH WITH DATES SERVED WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST 
COCOA FOR CHILDREN — COFFEE FOR ADULTS 



70 



LOW COST COOKING 



Oat Meal Mush with Dates 

ij^ cups oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sift oat meal slowly into boiling water, stirring constantly, 
boil three minutes, then cover closely and set pan in a larger 
vessel containing boiling water. Continue cooking i or 2 
hours longer. If placed the evening before in a fireless 
cooker it will be done in the morning, or it may cook over 
night on the back of a coal range where it can remain hot. 
Fifteen minutes before serving add the dates, washed, 
stoned and cut in halves. 

Toast 

Slice stale bread J4 to ^ inch thick, lay in oven until 
brown, or brown over coals. 
Preparing the Meal 

Start oat meal cooking the night before. In the morning 
put it on to reheat, add dates, and make the coffee. Make 
toast; set table. Pour off top part of the milk for cereal 
and coffee. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Tuesday 

CREAMED CARKOTS 

BREAD WITH CLEG 

TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 

TEA FOR ADULTS 

Creamed Carrots 
Two pints of carrots, 3 cups of white sauce. Wash and 
pare carrots, cut into pieces Yz inch thick, J4 inch square. 
Cover with boiling water. Add 2 teaspoons of salt and cook 
until tender. Remove cover from pan, evaporate the water, 
and add the white sauce, made separately ; or, more simply, 
rub together 4 tablespoons of flour and 3 of drippings with 
y^ cup of water and 2j^ cups of milk ; add to cooked carrots 
and boil. 

White Sauce 

3 cups milk or milk and 3 tablespoons dripping or oleo 
water, mixed ij4 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons flour 

Stir the flour in hot drippings or oleo, add milk gradually, 
boil, stirring constantly until smooth and thick. 



WINTER MEALS 



71 



Toast Tea 

I cup toast crumbs 4 cups boiling water 

Roll toast left from breakfast with a rolling pin, add 
boiling water to the crumbs, stir until partly dissolved. 
Serve hot with sugar and milk. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash and pare carrots and put them on to cook % hour 
before meal time; prepare toast crumbs; set table; add 
dressing to carrots; make toast tea and tea. 

Tuesday DINNER 

NAVY BEANS WITH SHANK OF SALT PORK 

TOMATO CATSUP 

CORN BREAD STEWED APRICOTS AND PEACHES 

COFFEE MILK 

Beans Boiled with Meat 

3 cups navy beans 2 pounds shank salt pork 

Pick over and wash the beans ; wash meat carefully and 
remove skin and part of fat. (This fat can be fried out 
by cutting up and heating in a dish in the oven and used for 
drippings.) Add meat to the beans, cover well with boiling 
water, cook slowly 4 or 5 hours, adding more water if nec- 
essary until both meat and beans are tender. This may be 
done in a fireless cooker. 

There will be enough beans left from this amount for 
lunch on the following day. 

Southern Corn Bread 

3 cups corn meal (prefer- i teaspoon salt 

ably white) i egg 

lyi cup thick sour milk 3 tablespoons melted drippings 

34 teaspoon cooking soda 
Beat egg in mixing bowl, add milk, sift in meal with soda 
and salt, and add melted fat. Beat quickly until well 
mixed, pour into hot, well-greased pan and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven. Cut in squares and serve hot. Egg may 
be omitted. 

If sweetened corn bread is preferred, use yellow corn 
meal and add 3 tablespoons sugar. 

■Flour may be used in place of one of the cups of corn 
meal. 



72 



LOW COST COOKING 



Dried Apricots and Peaches 

Vi pound apricots J4 pound peaches 

Wash the fruit, soak over night in cold water, cook slowly 
in same water until tender. Add sugar to taste,, about J^ 
cup. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start beans and meat cooking while lunch is being pre- 
pared. Let dried fruit be cooking at the same time, and 
set aside to cool when done. Half an hour before meal time 
make com bread and put in to bake. Twenty minutes be- 
fore meal time make the coffee, set the table, then serve 
the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

FRIED BACON STRIP TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Mush 

V/i cups graham flour 4 cups boiling water 

I cup cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix the flour with the cold water to prevent it from 
lumping when added to the boiling water. Pour this mix- 
ture into the boiling salted water, stirring all the while. 
Boil 5 minutes, set in a larger pan of boiling water and 
continue cooking J^ to i hour ; or leave closely covered over 
night on the back of the stove, or in a tireless cooker. 

Preparing the Meal 

The graham mush should be started the night before. 
About Yi. hour before breakfast time put it on to reheat. 
Make coiifee, set the table, fry bacon and make the toast. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Wednesday 

BEAN POLENTA 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

HOT STEWED DRIED APPLES 

TEA FOR ADULTS — CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 



WINTER MEALS 73 

Bean Polenta 

4 cups white beans (cooked) J4 teaspoon mustard 
lyi tablespoons molasses ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons vinegar 

Drain the water from cold boiled beans, mash them fine, 
and mix with the other ingredients. Form the mixture into 
cakes and brown on both sides in hot greased pan. 

Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups scalded milk 3 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups boiling water J^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Add the boiling water to the scalded milk and sugar just 

before serving. Sprinkle the cinnamon over the top. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash the dried apples and put them to soak the night 
before. About an hour before meal time put them on to 
cook in the same water. One-half hour before meal time 
make the polenta, using the beans left from dinner the day 
before, and put the cakes on to brown. While they are 
browning put the milk on to heat for the cinnamon tea and 
set the table. When the polenta is done make the tea and 
the cinnamon tea. 
Wednesday DINNER 

STEW WITH VEGETABLES 

BREAD 

SUET PUDDING 

Stew with Vegetables 

154 to 2 pounds stew meat i onion 

2 carrots 2 sprigs parsley 

2 turnips i tablespoon salt 

4 to 6 potatoes % teaspoon pepper 

Neck or breast of lamb or veal or inexpensive cuts of 
beef may be used. Have the butcher cut the pieces of meat 
rather small. Put them into the kettle in which the stew is 
to be cooked and place over a hot fire, stirring occasionally 
until the outside is well browned. Cover with hot water 
and cook slowly, without boiling, until the meat is tender. 
Add the vegetables pared and cut into pieces, during the 
last hour of cooking. Thicken the gravy with two table- 
spoons of flour, mixed with a little cold water, just before 
serving. 



74 LOW COST COOKING 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups bread crumbs J4 teaspoon salt 

I cup finely chopped suet Grating of nutmeg 

I cup sugar i cup milk or water 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan, or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, 
and set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an 
hour. 

For boiling, tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 2^ to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way as 
cake. 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces, or as a cake with- 
out sauce. 

One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pudding, or 
a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be added 
to give variety. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 3 hours before meal time put the meat for the 
stew on to cook; add the vegetables to the stew, make 
the suet pudding; while it is cooking, make the coffee and 
set the table. Serve the stew on a large platter with the 
meat piled in the center and the pieces of vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. Serve the pudding, like cake, cut in 
squares without sauce. 

Extra Baking 

Just before starting lunch mix the bread and set it to 
rise. It will be ready for the second kneading after lunch 
is over. Make rolls from part of the bread dough. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 yeast cakes stirred into }4 cup 

2 tablespoons sugar of lukewarm water 
2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and 
about 5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining 
flour and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and 
knead until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased 



WINTER MEALS 75 

pan, greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean 
cloth. Place where it will keep at a warm, even tempera- 
ture. When the dough has raised to double its size, which 
will be in about ij^ hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the common 
bakers' loaf, which weighs 12 ounces. This recipe will make 
eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 
or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooling. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour 2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

Yi cup sugar or molasses I tablespoon salt 

I yeast cake dissolved in % cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread. If caraway seeds are desired add one 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

Roll bread dough to J^ inch thick at second kneading; 
spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, roll 
into a long roll, cut into J4 inch slices ; grease these on the 
outside, place in baking pan. When they have risen to twice 
their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 

At the second kneading roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of J^ inch and spread with a J4 inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 



76 LOW COST COOKING 

inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold the dough so that there 
will be a layer of prunes between two layers of dough, grease 
the outside, place in a greased pan, allow them to rise to 
twice their size, bake. 

Coffee Cake 

I cup hot milk J^ cup sugar _ 

J4 cup lard _ i teaspoon salt 

Yz yeast cake dissolved in J4 cup lukewarm water 

Add hot milk with lard and salt; when lukewarm, add 
dissolved yeast, flour enough to make the stiff batter — about 
three cups — cover dish and let the batter rise, then spread in 
a well greased pan, sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise, 
bake. If raisins are desired add J^ cup just before putting 
into baking pan. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday 

RYE MUFFINS 

FRIED SALT PORK WITH MILK GRAVY 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rye MufHns 

V/i. cups rye flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

V/i cups white flour 6 teaspoons baking powder 

V/i teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons drippings 
iYi cup milk or water 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add liquid and melted drip- 
pings and beat. Put quickly into heated, greased muffin 
pan and bake about 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Fried Salt Pork with Milk Gravy 
Cut the pork in very thin slices and fry in a hot pan until 
crisp and brown. Take out pork, pour off all but 3 table- 
spoons of the drippings, and into this rub 2 tablespoons 
flour. Add i cup of water slowly, boil well, add a cup 
of milk. Cut the fried pork in J4 inch pieces and mix with 
the gravy. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water on to boil for coffee ; make the muffins. While 
they are baking make the coffee, set the table, fry the pork 
and make the gravy. 



WINTER MEALS 'j'j 

Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

PUREE (thick soup) OF LIMA BEANS 

TOASTED MUFFINS 

BAKED BANANA 

TEA FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Puree of Lima Beans 

4 cups cooked lima beans 2 slices fat pork 
2 cups water i tablespoon flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

For additional flavoring, if desired, use i tablespoon each 
of onion, parsley or celery, chopped fine. Fry pork until 
crisp and brown, break or cut it into small bits, stir the flour 
into the drippings and pork, and if onion or celery is used 
add this at the same time and cook for a few minutes. Add 
water and boil, mash the beans fine, and add them. If the 
whole is too thick, add more water. The soup may be made 
more nutritious by using milk instead of water. 

Baked Banana 

Baked banana is more easily digested than raw. Peel 
the bananas, cut lengthwise into halves, place in baking pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven for about 15 minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

The lemon juice may be omitted and the bananas served 
with milk and sugar. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash and soak beans over night, put on to cook at 
breakfast time and cook slowly until tender. Twenty min- 
utes before meal time, put muffins left over from breakfast, 
and any other scraps of bread, in the oven to toast. Pre- 
pare bananas and put in to bake. Make the soup, set the 
table, and make the tea. 

Thursday DINNER 

FLANK STEAK BRAISED WITH VEGETABLES 

BROWNED PARSNIPS 

STEWED FIGS 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Flank Steak Braised with Vegetables 
Have the butcher score the steak when it is bought, or, 
better still, beat it well with a hammer. Dredge well with 



^& LOW COST COOKING 

flour and lay in baking pan. Over it place a thick layer of 
thinly sliced raw potatoes, then a layer of thinly sliced 
onion. Pour over this 2 cups of stewed tomatoes, cover 
closely and cook slowly in oven 2j4 to 3 hours. One-half 
hour before the meat is done, remove the cover. Add 
water as necessary, and leave it to cook uncovered. In 
serving, place it whole on a platter and cut down as through 
a loaf. 

Browned Parsnips 
Pare parsnips, cut in halves, and cook in boiling, salted 
water until tender. Cut lengthwise into slices Yz inch thick, 
brown in a hot, greased pan, or in the oven with baking 
meat. They may be served plain boiled and if any are 
left over they may be browned at the next serving. 

Stewed Figs 

Use dried figs that are not pressed. They are usually sold 
for cooking at 10 to 12 cents per pound. Wash carefully 
and soak over night, or for several hours. Cook slowly in 
the same water until tender. Add sugar if desired. 

Preparing the Meal 

After breakfast wash J^ pound cooking figs and put to 
soak. Three hours before meal time prepare the steak and 
put it in to bake ; i J^ hours before prepare the parsnips and 
start them to boil, and put figs on to cook ; J^ hour before 
lay the parsnips cut in slices in the pan to brown. Make 
the coffee, set the table. 

The parsnips might be omitted from this dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday 

FRIED HOMINY MUSH WITH BROWN SUGAR SYRUP 

TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Hominy Mush 

Pour one part hominy slowly into four parts boiling, 
salted water, stir till it thicketis and then cook slowly in a 
double boiler for 3 hours or more, or over night in a fire- 
less cooker. 

Pour boiled hominy into a deep, greased pan until it is 



WINTER MEALS 79 

3 inches or more in depth. The next day turn the mixture 
out of the pan, slice in J4 inch slices and brown both sides 
in hot, greased pan. 

Brown Sugar Syrup 

Melt 2 cups of brown sugar with i cup hot water; boil 
5 minutes and cool. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start 2 cups of hominy to cook as a mush the day before 
while lunch is being prepared. Let it cook all afternoon 
and pour the part for breakfast into the pan and leave over- 
night in a cold place. Set the rest aside to bake with 
cheese on Saturday. The next morning make the coffee, 
start to fry the mush, and while it is cooking make the 
syrup and set the table. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Friday 

RICE SOUP WITH CROUTONS 
RICE AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Rice Soup 

3 cups rice water i tablespoon chopped onion 

2 cups carrots i tablespoon chopped celery 

2 tablespoons drippings. 1 tablespoon flour 

Scrape the carrots, cut in small pieces and cook until ten- 
der. Heat the drippings, add the onions and celery to it 
and cook them 5 minutes without browning. Stir in the 
flour, add this mixture to the carrots, add the rice water with 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread into small cubes or in strips 2 inches wide, 
^ inches thick, or in any fancy shapes desired. Dry in a 
slow oven until crisp and light brown all the way through. 

Rice and Corn Meal Muffins 

I cup cooked rice 5 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup flour 154 cups liquid 

I teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons melted drippings 

I cup corn meal 
Mix and sift dry ingredients together, add rice to liquid 
ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and put 



8o LOW COST COOKING 

quickly into hot, greased muffin pans. Bake about 20 min- 
utes in a moderately hot oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

A half hour before meal time put 2 cups of rice on to 
boil. Use the rice for the scalloped fish for dinner and 
for the muffins, and the rice water for the soup. Prepare 
the carrots and put them on to cook. Cut the croutons into 
J^ inch cubes and put them in the oven to brown. Make the 
muffins and while they are baking, set the table. Finish 
the soup and serve with the croutons sprinkled over the 
top of each bowl. 

„ . , DINNER ^ 

Friday 

SCALLOPED SALT FISH 

BOILED BEETS 

HOT GINGERBREAD 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Scalloped Salt Fish 

lYi cups salt fish 2 cups thin white sauce 

3 cups boiled rice 

Shred the salt fish and soak in luke warm water for about 
an hour, or until the pieces are softened. Fill a baking 
dish with alternate layers of the fish and boiled rice which 
has been mixed with the white sauce. Cover with bread 
crumbs and bake until hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Gingerbread 

2 cups flour 54 cup molasses 

y^ cup sugar Ys cup hot water 

1 teaspoon ginger 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

2 teaspoons baking powder pings 

J4 teaspoon soda % teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to the molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Boiled Beets 

Wash the beets without breaking the skin and boil for 
3 hours or until tender.- Drop in cold water and rub off 
the skins, slice, season with salt and oleo and serve hot. 



WINTER MEALS 8l 

Or the sliced beets may be soaked for an hour or two 
in weak vinegar and used as Pickled Beets. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the beets to cooking at breakfast time if wanted 
pickled, otherwise later. At % hour before meal time make 
the gingerbread, prepare the scalloped fish and put in oven. 
While these are baking make the coffee, skin and slice 
the beets and set the table. 

Saturday BREAKFAST 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Corn Meal Mush 

V/i cups corn meal 6 cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Sift the com meal slowly into the boiling, salted water, 
stirring constantly to prevent it from lumping. After boil- 
ing lo minutes, place the kettle in a larger pan of boiling 
water or in a fireless cooker to cook over night. 

Date and Prune Jam 

I pound prunes i pound dates 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, cleaned and 
stoned. Cook mixture until thick. In the same way prunes 
may be combined with figs, and figs with dates ; add a little 
lemon juice for the flavor. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make the jam the day before, while preparing lunch. 
Start the corn meal to cooking the night before. In the 
morning set on stove to reheat Yz hour before breakfast 
time. Start the coffee, make the toast, set the table. Serve 
the mush in cereal bowls with sugar and the top half of 
the bottle of milk. 

Saturday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

HOMINY BAKED WITH CHEESE 

STEWED RAISINS 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 



82 LOW COST COOKING 

Hominy Baked with Cheese 
Put alternate layers of boiled hominy and grated cheese 
in baking dish. Add enough milk, thin white sauce or 
water to moisten. Cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Stewed Raisins 

Wash black, seedless raisins and soak over night. Cook 
slowly in the same water until tender. Add sugar if de- 
sired. 
Preparing the Meal 

Put raisins to soak the night before and cook during 

breakfast. One-half hour before lunch time prepare the 

hominy using that left from breakfast the day before and 

put in the oven to bake. While it is baking, set the table 

and make the tea. 

- , , DINNER 

Saturday 

CORN BEEF WITH VEGETABLES 

BAKED POTATOES 

APPLE SAUCE 

jCOFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Com Beef with Vegetables 

2 lbs. brisket of corn beef J4 lb. turnips 

J4 lb. cabbage i lb. carrots 

J/^ lb. rutabaga i onion 

Wipe the meat, cover with cold water and bring slowly 
to the boiling point. After boiling S minutes remove the 
scum and continue cooking just below the boiling point for 
about 3 hours. When the meat is tender, remove it and 
cook the vegetables in the water. Cut these in uniform size 
and cook them until tender. If small, the carrots may be 
cut in halves, if large in quarters, and other vegetables in 
similar size. Cabbage should be added about lo minutes 
later than the others. Serve the meat on a large platter 
surrounded by the vegetables. Almost any other vegetables, 
beets, peas, etc., may be used instead of part of those named. 

Apple Sauce 
Wash 6 sour apples and cut into eighths with skins on. 
Remove core, and decayed spots. Cover with hot water and 



WINTER MEALS 83 

cook slowly until tender. Remove from fire and add about 
J^ cup sugar, or to taste. Serve either hot or cold, but not 
luke warm. 
Preparing the Meal 

Four or five hours before meal time put the meat on to 
cook ; I hour before wash 6 medium sized potatoes and lay 
them in the oven to bake. Wash and pare the vegetables, 
remove the meat from the kettle, laying it in the warming 
oven to keep warm. While the vegetables are cooking make 
the apple sauce and the coffee and set the table. 

If more convenient the potatoes may be pared and quar- 
tered and cooked with the other vegetables. 

Extra Baking 

Make bread in the morning so that it will be ready to bake 
late in the afternoon when the corned beef is cooking. . After 
the dishes from the noon meal are washed, make and bake 
the oatmeal cookies for Sunday. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 2 teaspoons baking powder 

yi cup flour 2 tablespoons oleo 

I cup sugar i pinch of salt 

I egg 3 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg beaten, and milk. Drop by 
teaspoonfuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

_ , BREAKFAST 

Sunday 

GRAHAM BISCUITS WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

SCRAMBLED EGG 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Biscuits 

lyi cups graham flour l cup liquid 

1^2 cups white flour 3 tablespoons lard or crisco 

i^ teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly 
through by cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly 
with the fingers. Add the liquid, mixing with a knife. 
Turn the mixture on floured bread board. Roll or pat to J^ 
inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 15 to 20 minutes 
in a hot oven. 



84 LOW COST COOKING 

Scrambled Egg 

Beat 4 eggs light, add Yz teaspoon baking powder, i 
teaspoon salt, pepper to taste, and beat again. Boil J^ cup 
milk or milk and water mixed with i tablespoon flour in the 
frying pan. Cool a little and add the eggs. Stir the mix- 
ture constantly over a very low fire until the eggs are 
cooked but not tough. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the biscuits and leave them standing in the baking 
pan until ahout 20 minutes before time for breakfast. This 
may be done the night before in cold weather if each bis- 
cuit is brushed over with melted fat to prevent a crust 
from forming and the pan is closely covered to keep out 
dust and germs. Make the coffee, put the biscuits in oven 
and scramble the eggs. In serving the biscuits, take out 
only enough for once around, leaving the others in oven 
to keep hot. 

„ , LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Sunday 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

OATMEAL COOKIES BLACK OLIVES 

COCOA 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Place alternate layer of bread crumbs and canned or ripe 
tomatoes and seasoning of salt and pepper in baking dish 
with crumbs on top. If desired add an onion finely chopped 
to the tomatoes. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

One-half hour before meal time, prepare the tomatoes 
ar^d put them in the oven. While they are heating make 
the cocoa and set the table. Serve the cookies made on 
Saturday. 

e , DINNER 

Sunday 

MEAT LOAF WITH BROWNED POTATOES 

CREAMED RUTABAGA CABBAGE SALAD 

BAKED APPLES WITH RAISINS 

COFFEE MILK 



WINTER MEALS 85 

Meat Loaf 

1 pound chopped meat i cup thick white sauce 

2 cups bread crumbs Flavor with salt and pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly together, form into loaf and 
bake in moderate oven for two hours. One tablespoon 
minced onion may be added if desired. 

Thick White Sauce 

1 cup liquid 2 tablespoons drippings 

3^/2 tablespoons flour H tablespoon salt 

Add liquid slowly to flour, stirring to make a smooth 
paste. Pour into drippings and boil, stirring constantly 
until thick and smooth. 

Creamed Rutabaga 
Wash and pare the rutabaga and cut in pieces about J4 
inch square and }^ inch long. Cook in boiling, salted water 
until tender. Evaporate the water by leaving kettle uncov- 
ered on fire. Add 3 cups of thin white sauce made sepa- 
rately, or stir 3 tablespoons of flour into J4 cup water and 
add this with 2J/2 cups of milk and water to the vegetables 
and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

Cabbage Salad 

Shave the cabbage fine and add salt and pepper. Cut 
two thin slices of bacon into small pieces and fry till brown. 
While very hot pour over the cabbage. Add a little vinegar. 

Baked Apple v^ith Raisins 

Remove the core from 6 medium sized apples. Put 
them in baking dish, fill the cavity with sugar and seedless 
raisins, add J4 cup water and bake in a moderate oven until 
the apples are soft. 

Preparing the Meal 

Two hours before meal time prepare the meat loaf and 
put in oven; i hour before pare 6 medium sized potatoes 
cut in halves and lay in the pan with the meat. Prepare the 
apples and start them to baking. Put the rutabaga on and 
while it is cooking, make the cabbage salad and the coffee, 
set the table, finish the rutabaga. Serve the Ipaf whole with 
the potatoes arranged on the platter around it. 



SUMMER MEALS 



Monday 



BREAKFAST 



POTATO CAKES 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

COFFEE MILK 

Potato Cakes 

Mix left over mashed potatoes with such scraps of meat, 
dressing and gravy as may be on hand. Add bread crumbs 
as necessary to make the mixture stiff enough to form into 
cakes. Brown cakes on both sides in hot greased pan. 

If no meat is on hand omit or use a Httle bacon or salt 
pork. 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Wash and peel 8 large stalks of rhubarb. Cut into J4 
inch pieces, and add almost enough cold water to cover. 
Boil gently until the pieces are tender but still whole. Add 
sugar tq taste and set aside to cool. Part of this juice 
may be poured ofif to make a fruit drink and the remainder 
served with the sauce. 

There will be sauce enough for breakfast and to serve 
with rice for Tuesday's dinner. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make potato cakes and put them on to brown. Make 
enough coffee for dinner as well as for breakfast, and 
as soon as the last cup to be used hot is poured, pour the 
remainder off of the grounds and set aside to cool. This 
is to be used for iced coffee in the evening. Rhubarb 
sauce should be made the day before and served cold. Make 
the toast and set the table. 

Monday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

RICE AND CHEESE RAREBIT ON TOAST 

APPLE SAUCE 

MILK FOR CHILDREN — TEA FOR ADULTS 

86 



SUMMER MEALS 87 

Rice and Cheese Rarebit 

?4 cup of rice 2 tablespoons flour 

% cup of cheese iH teaspoons salt 

ij4 cups of milk J^ teaspoon pepper 

Boil rice in plenty of water. When cooked tender add 
milk and the flour mixed with % cup of water. Allow 
this to boil, add salt and pepper, and when it again reaches 
boiling point, remove from the fire and add cheese chopped 
fine. Stir cheese through the hot mixture until it melts 
and serve on toast. 

Apple Sauce 

Wash and quarter 6 summer apples and remove cores. 
Cover with hot water and cook slowly until apples are 
tender, but do not lose shape. Add J^ cup sugar just 
before removing from fire. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the apple sauce just after the breakfast is over and 
set away to cool ; J^ hour before meal time put the rice on 
to cook. Set the table, finish the rarebit and make the tea. 

Monday DINNER 

HAMBURGER STEAK WITH TOMATOES 

MCED POTATOES 

HASHED KOHLRABI 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

ICED COFFEE — MILK 

Hamburger Steak with Tomatoes 

IJ4 pounds chopped beef Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan to brown, stirring con- 
stantly. When part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, 
cover closely and continue cooking on low fire until done. 
Use fresh tomatoes if cheaper. 

Riced Potatoes 
Press plain boiled potatoes, hot, through ricer, letting 
them fall into dish in which they will be served. A potato 
ricer is a great convenience and may be bought for from 
25 cents to 50 cents. 

Hashed Kohlrabi 
Pare kohlrabi, cut into quarters and cook until tender 



88 LOW COST COOKING 

in boiling salted water. Evaporate water, chop fine and 
add 3 tablespoons of drippings. 
Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the potatoes and kohlrabi and put them on to 
cook one-half hour before the meal time. Prepare the 
hamburger steak. Set the table and add ice to the coffee, 
or if without ice put into a clean milk bottle and place in a 
pan under cold running water. Hash the kohlrabi, rice the 
potatoes and serve the meal. (Use oatmeal cookies made on 
the last baking day, see page 83.) 

Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OATMEAL WITH TOP MILK 

FRUIT TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fruit Toast 

Use 6 slices of toast with 2 cups of stewed fruit. Fruit, 
such as plums, berries, cherries, rhubarb, etc., stewed with 
plenty of water, may be used. Pour it over the freshly 
toasted bread. It may be served hot or cold. 
Preparing the Meal 

Set the oatmeal on the fire to reheat after cooking over 
night. Make stewed fruit by boiling J^ dozen plums or 
other fruit in plenty of water. Make the coffee and the 
toast. 
Tuesday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

SPLIT PEAS WITH CARROTS 

PRUNE ROLLS 

TEA MILK 

Split Peas with Carrots 

Use 3 cups split peas, cooked, and 3 cups of boiled car- 
rots. Mash the peas fine and add salt and pepper to taste. 
Add carrots, cut in small pieces, and J4 cup of milk. Re- 
heat and serve. 
Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2 cups of peas over night and start them to cook 
2 hours before meal time. This will make enough for 



SUMMER MEALS 89 

lunch croquettes on Wednesday also. Wash and scrape 
carrots and cut in J4 inch cubes. Cook in boiling, salted 
water for J^ hour before meal time: Set the table and add 
mashed peas to carrots. Make tea enough for this meal 
and for iced tea for dinner. As soon as the hot tea is 
poured, pour off the remainder and set aside to cool. Use 
prune rolls made on the last baking day. 

Tuesday DINNER 

POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES 

STEAMED RICE WITH STEWED CHERRIES 

ICED TEA — FRUIT DRINK FOR CHILDREN 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 lbs. meat 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 cups carrots 2 cups parsnips 

2 cups rutabagas i onion 

Choose a piece of meat with some bone and a little fat, 
such as pork or beef shoulder, or brisket. Brown the meat 
well on all sides in a hot kettle, with a bit of fat. Add 2 
cups of water, cover closely and cook slowly for about 
4 hours, adding water as necessary. The last three-quarters 
of an hour add the vegetables, pared and cut in pieces. 
Serve the meat whole on the platter with vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. 

Steamed Rice 

I cup rice 1 5^ teaspoon salt 

3 cups boiling water 

Wash rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is clean. Add 
rice to boiling water and boil for 5 minutes. Place stew- 
pan, closely covered, in larger kettle of boiling water and 
steam for 50 minutes. 

Steamed Rice with Stewed Cherries 
Use I box of cherries to 3 cups of steamed rice. Wash 
and stone the cherries, cover with water and cook until 
tender. Add sugar to taste. Pour % cup of fruit over 
each dessert dish of rice. 

Preparing the Meal 
Four hours before meal time put the pot roast on to 



90 LOW COST COOKING 

cook. If a 3-pound piece is used, enough will be left for 
croquettes on Wednesday. Put rice on to steam, and while 
it is cooking, stew the cherries and set them aside to cool. 
As soon as the rice is done set it in a cool place. There 
will be enough of it for the griddle cakes on Wednesday as 
well as for the dessert. 

Three-quarters of an hour before meal time prepare the 
vegetables and add them to the meat. Set the table, make 
the fruit drink for the children by adding a little of the 
cherry juice and 2 cups water to the rhubarb juice left from 
Monday. Ice the tea for the adults. Finish preparing the 
dessert. Serve meat on platter with vegetables around it. 

Wednesday BREAKFAST 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

FRIED BACON STRIPS 

BANANAS 

COFFEE MILK 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

54 cup boiled rice 2 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups flour S teaspoons baking powder 

1% cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons sugar 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add rice to the liquid ingre- 
dients. An egg may be added. Combine with the dry and 
beat well. Cook by tablespoonf uls the same as other griddle 
cakes. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the griddle cakes and start the first griddle full 
cooking. Make the coffee, slice and fry the bacon, and 
set the table, attending to the cooking of the cakes at the 
same time. And when they are finished serve the breakfast. 

Extra Baking 
Before starting to cook the noon meal mix the bread 
and set it to rise. It will be ready for the second kneading 
soon after lunch, and can be baked before time for the 
evening meal. Make cinnamon rolls as well as bread. If 
coal or wood fire is used, plan to keep the top of the stove 
full while fire is going. Leave no empty space in the oven 
while it is hot. 



SUMMER MEALS 9I 

,x, . . LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Wednesday 

SPLIT PEA LOAF 

SLICED TOMATOES 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA — MILK 

Split Pea Loaf 

4 cups split peas, cooked i beaten egg 

2 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon minced onion 

I tablespoon minced parsley, celery, or other flavoring as 
desired. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix all the ingredients together. If too soft to hold its 
shape add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water 
or another egg. Form into loaf, lay over it thin slices of salt 
pork or bacon. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Use split peas cooked on Tuesday. A half hour before 
meal time make loaf and put in oven to brown. Slice the 
tomatoes. Set the table and make the tea. 

„, , , DINNER 

Wednesday 

BAKED CROQUETTES BAKED POTATOES 

HOT CINNAMON ROLLS 

BANANAS WITH LEMON JUICE 

LEMONADE 

Baked Croquettes 

3 cups chopped meat i teaspoon onion juice 
3 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon salt 

2 cups thick white sauce Pepper to taste 

Make a white sauce by stirring j4 cup flour into % cup 
melted fat, cook till frothy, then add slowly 2 cups milk or 
water, or the two mixed, stirring all the time, and cook 
again till thick, stirring till smooth. 

Add cooked meat — ^beef , mutton, veal or pork — and bread 
crumbs. Mix well, form into croquettes about 3 inches 
long, lay them in greased pan, and set in hot oven to brown. 

Bananas with Lemon Juice 
Slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with brown sugar and lemon 
juice. 



92 



LOW COST COOKING 



Preparing the Meal 

Put six potatoes for dinner and four for tomorrow's lunch 
in oven one hour before meal time, while bread is still 
baking. Croquettes and cinnamon rolls (see page i6) may 
be baked together about J^ hour before meal time. Set the 
table, prepare the bananas and lemonade. 

Thursday BREAKFAST 

FARINA MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

CINNAMON ROLLS (BAKING POWDEr) 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Farina Mush 

Use % cup of farina to 4 cups boiling salted water. Make 
the same as other cereal mush. Cook J^ to i hour. 

Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2 cups flour 54 cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder }4 cup oleo 

J4 teaspoon salt J4 cup sugar _ 

2 tablespoons fat 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work the fat in with the tips of the fingers, add the milk 
or water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet 
J^ inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing bowl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into 5^ inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put on water to boil for cereal and coffee; while the 
farina is cooking make and bake the cinnamon rolls, make 
the coffee and set the table. 

Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAMED POTATOES AND BEETS 

LETTUCE WITH FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

BUTTERMILK 

Creamed Potatoes and Beets 
Use 2 cups boiled potatoes, 2 cups boiled beets and 2 cups 



SUMMER MEALS 



93 



thin white sauce. Cut the potatoes and beets in J^-inch 
cubes. Reheat in white sauce made separately; or, add 2 
tablespoons flour mixed with J^ cup cold water and ij^ cups 
milk to the vegetables and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

French Salad Dressing 

Mix three parts olive, peanut or salad oil with one part 
lemon juice or vinegar; add pepper and salt to taste. 

Preparing the Meal 

Several hours before meal time wash carefully 2 bunches 
of lettuce and lay it on ice or in a cool place so that it may 
be crisp when time to serve. Wash 6 beets and start them 
to cook at breakfast time. When cooked tender remove 
from fire. One-half hour before meal time, peel part of the 
beets, leaving the rest for Friday's salad. Skin the cold 
baked potatoes cooked Wednesday and cut both in j4-inch 
cubes. Make the white sauce, add the vegetables and reheat. 
Set the table and mix the salad dressing. 

Thursday DINNER 

FRIED calves' HEARTS WITH BROWN GRAVY 

MASHED POTATOES 

LETTUCE AND GREEN ONION SALAD 

COFFEE MILK 

Fried Calves Hearts 

ij^ pound hearts, sliced lengthwise, in J^-inch slices. Soak 
in cold salt water for i^ hours, roll in flour or bread crumbs 
and brown both sides in hot suet fat, cover pan and cook 
on very slow fire until tender. Use beef heart the same way. 

Brown Gravy 

3 tablespoons drippings 2 cups water, or water and 

3 tablespoons flour milk mixed 

Add flour to hot drippings and let it brown. Add liquid 
gradually, stirring constantly until a smooth mixture is 
obtained, and boil 3 minutes. 

Lettuce and Green Onion Salad 
Wash and trim the tops of the onions. Serve them on 
lettuce leaves with French dressing. 



94 LOW COST COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

One and one-half hours before meal time put the calves' 
hearts to soak. Prepare the potatoes and put them on to 
cook J^ hour before meal time. Brown the hearts and while 
they are cooking make the coffee, set the table, dress the 
salad and mash the potatoes. 
Friday BREAKFAST 

CRACKED WHEAT 

CODDLED EGGS TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Coddled Eggs 
Put 6 eggs in stewpan with enough cold water to cover. 
Cook on low fire until boiling point is reached. 

Preparing the Meal 

Cracked wheat should be started to cook the night before. 
Set on to reheat, make the coffee, put on the eggs. While 
they are cooking, make the cocoa, making six extra cups 
to serve cold at dinner. Set the table, make the toast. 

Friday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAM OF NAVY BEAN SOUP 
LETTUCE WITH CHEESE AND FRENCH DRESSING 

Cream of Navy Bean Soup 

3 cups cooked navy beans 3 tablespoons drippings 
lJ4 cups milk 3 tablespoons flour 

ij4 cups water i tablespoon minced onion 

Minced celery, etc., as desired for flavoring 

Stir the flour, onion and other flavorings in hot drippings 
until they are browned. Add water and boil. Mash the 
beans fine or put through a sieve or colander. Add salt 
and pepper to taste. When hot it is ready to serve. 

Lettuce with Cheese and French Dressing 
Mix the French dressing, add 3 tablespoons grated cheese. 
Stir and add to the lettuce. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2j4 cups beans over night for soup and for Satur- 
day's lunch. Start them to cook about 2 hours before 
meal time. Wash and drain the lettuce and leave in ice 



SUMMER MEALS 



95 



box to get crisp. If there is no ice box, put the lettuce in a 
tin pail with a tight cover in a cool place or under running 
water. One-half hour before meal time set the table, make 
the soup and dress the salad. 

Friday ^^^^ER 

SALT CODFISH HASH 

BEET SALAD 

CUP CAKES COLD COCOA 

Salted CodHsh Hash 

1% cups salt codfish 3 cups potatoes 

Wash and pare the potatoes and cut them in uniform 
size. Pick salt cod in small pieces and drop the potatoes 
and fish into boiling water. Boil until the potatoes are soft. 
Drain, mash thoroughly and put into a hot greased frying 
pan until well browned on under side. Serve with one-half 
folded on top of the other like an omelet. 

Beet Salad 

Cut boiled beets in J^-inch cubes. Mix with boiled salad 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole egg 
J^ cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour % teaspoon pepper 

yi teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with part of milk, add re- 
maining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back of 
stove, add egg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the egg. 
When cool, add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix 
thoroughly. 

Quick Cup Cakes 

Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
ij4 cups of flour, ^ cup of fine granulated sugar, 2 level 
teaspoons of baking powder, J4 teaspoon of salt. Sift in 
the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt J4 cup oleo or crisco or lard, 
break in i or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add }i 
teaspoon flavoring extract or % teaspoon of spice. Mix ■ 



96 LOW COST COOKING 

with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For Chocolate Cake add 2 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash enough beets for salad and for lunch on. Saturday. 
Cut off the tops and save them to cook for greens. Cook 
the beets immediately after breakfast, so they will be cold 
when needed. Prepare the codfish and potatoes and put 
them on to cook J^ hour before meal time. Make the cakes 
and while they are baking set the table, make the salad, 
brown the codfish hash. Use cocoa left from breakfast. 

- ^ , BREAKFAST 

Saturday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 
CREAM TOAST COFFEE 

Cream Toast 

6 slices toast 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups milk I egg 

2 tablespoons flour J4 cup water 

Mix the sugar and flour in stewpan, add water and stir 
until smooth. Add i cup milk and boil until thick. Add 
remaining milk, heat to boiling point and remove from fire. 
Add a beaten egg to the hot sauce, stirring it well through 
the mixture. Pour over hot toast and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat graham mush which was started to cook the night 
before. Make the toast, start the coffee and make the sauce 
for toast. Set the table and finish the toast and coffee. 

Extra Baking 

Mix the bread about the same time as on Wednesday, 
planning to have it baked about the time the evening meal 
is served. 

Make plain rolls for this meal and sugar rolls for Sunday 
breakfast. Mix the spice cake for Sunday J/^ hour before 
the bread is ready to bake, and bake it first, as it requires 
a cooler oven than the bread. Cook the plums for Sunday 
lunch while bread is baking. 



SUMMER MEALS 97 

Saturday ^^NCH OR SUPPER 

PUREE OF BEANS AND TOMATOES 
RHUBARB MARMALADE 

Boiled Beans and Tomatoes 

3 cups cooked navy beans 2 tablespoons drippings 

1 cup canned tomatoes i tablespoon minced onion 

I tablespoon minced parsley or celery if desired 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Add tomatoes to beans and boil J4 hour. Cook onions 
and other seasonings in the drippings, add to the beans. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Syi pounds rhubarb 3 pounds (6 cups) sugar 

2 lemons 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into J^-inch pieces. With a sharp knife pare 
off, very thin, the colored part of the lemon and orange 
peel. Then cut this into small pieces and add to the 
rhubarb. Remove remaining peel of the oranges and lemons, 
divide into sections ; add this to mixture and cook, boiling 
J4 hour; add sugar and boil very slowly 1% hours longer. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make rhubarb marmalade after breakfast is over and 
put away in sealed jars the part not to be used at once. 
One-half hour before meal time start the beans and toma- 
toes and while they are cooking set the table, prepare the 
seasoning and add it to the beans. 

DINNER 
Saturday 

LAMB STEW — BOILED RICE 
BEET GREENS 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

lyi pounds lamb or mutton 2 cups carrots 

Use lamb or mutton from shoulder, cut into small pieces. 
Cover with cold water and cook slowly without boiling for 
4 to 6 hours. Three-quarters of an hour before meal time 
add carrots, pared and cut into J^-inch pieces. When done 
thicken the gravy with 2 tablespoons flour. Serve on large 
platter with a border of boiled or steamed rice. 



98 LOW COST COOKING 

Beet Greens 

Wash greens carefully. Cook i hour or more, until 
tender, in boiling salted water. Season with pepper and 
drippings. 

Preparing the Meal 

Three hours before meal time put the lamb on to stew, 
using 3 pounds of the meat, so that enough may be left 
over for Turkish Pilaf on Sunday. Put greens on. Wash 
and pare carrots and cut in long, narrow strips. One-half 
hour before meal time add them to the stew. Wash ij4 
cups of rice and put on to boil. This will make enough for 
Sunday also. Make the coffee and set the table. 

Set aside the meat for Sunday, and thicken the gravy. 
Evaporate the water from the rice and season the greens 
and serve. 



Sunday 



BREAKFAST 

FRIED BACON WITH EGG 

TOAST FRESH PEACHES 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Bacon with Egg 

Fry the bacon. Break eggs and drop them whole into the 
hot fat. Cook on low fire without turning. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the coffee and toast, put milk on to heat. Set the 
table. Wash the peaches and serve them whole in a fruit 
dish. Fry the bacon, remove from the pan, and cook the 
eggs. Make cinnamon tea. 

DINNER 
Sunday 

TURKISH PILAF 

HASHED SPINACH WITH EGG 

RHUBARB TAriOCA 



SUMMER MEALS 



Turkish Pilaf 



99 



3 cups rice 2 cups meat, chopped and 
1 5^ cups of tomatoes cooked 

V/i cups water 

Mix rice with tomatoes and water, place ahernate layer 
of the mixture and of chopped meat in baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs, bake until brown in moderate oven. 

Hashed Spinach with Hard Cooked Egg 
Yi peck spinach 2 eggs 

Wash spinach very carefully. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender, about 30 minutes. Lift the spinach out of 
the water. Chop fine and season with 3 tablespoons drip- 
pings. Serve in vegetable dish with a border of hard cooked 
eggs cut into quarter sections. 

Save the water in which the spinach was cooked for soup, 
as it contains valuable salts. 

Rhubarb Tapioca 

4 cups rhubarb J^ cup tapioca 

2 cups sugar 

Soak the tapioca over night in cold water to cover. Drain, 
add boiling water, and cook until transparent. Add sugar, 
and rhubarb, peeled and cut into half-inch pieces, and bake 
until rhubarb is tender. Serve hot or cold with milk. 

Apple Tapioca is made in the same way. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak the tapioca over night and prepare this dish imme- 
diately after breakfast and set it aside to get cold. An 
hour before meal time, cook the eggs for the spinach, follow- 
ing the directions for hard cooked eggs. Prepare the lamb 
stew left from Saturday by picking the meat from the bones 
and chopping it. Make the Pilaf, using this with rice 
cooked on Saturday, and put in the oven 40 minutes before 
meal time. Wash the spinach and while it is cooking make 
the coffee and set the table. Season the spinach, take it 
up, and arrange the eggs. Serve the Pilaf in dish in which 
it was baked. Leave the dessert in the ice box until the 
first part of the dinner is eaten. 



lOO LOW COST COOKING 

SUPPER 
Sunday 

ENGLISH MONKEY 
SPICE CAKE STEWED CHERRIES 

English Monkey 

4 cups bread crumbs 54 cup cheese 

2 cups milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the bread crumbs and milk. If the crumbs are not 
well moistened, add water. When hot, add cheese cut in 
small pieces, remove from fire and stir until cheese is melted. 
May be served on toast. 

Spice Cake 

I cup dark brown sugar i teaspoon ground cinnamon 

I cup cold water _ _ Yz teaspoon ground cloves 

ij^ cups seeded raisins % nutmeg 

Yi cup drippings or crisco Y2 teaspoon salt 

Boil the above ingredients together three minutes, then 
cool. When cold stir in one teaspoon of soda dissolved in a 
little warm water. Add 2 cups of flour, sifted with J4 
teaspoon of baking powder. Bake as a loaf in a slow oven 
with the "Extra Baking" on Saturday. Nuts are a pleasing 
addition. 

Preparing the Meal 

Twenty minutes before serving, start English Monkey 
and while it is heating set the table. Add the cheese to the 
hot mixture and serve. 



MENUS 



lOI 






Wo"' 

U Er^ M 

^ n 

a« i 
-< « 
W t 



SSa 

■1 <) M 

CQpq tl 

^qS 

^ -d P 
*^ Hi ^ 

i-i < 
e O 






a § Sa 



o ■< 
M b 

n 

„ 03 O 
O S 

59 8 



9s 



W 3 






"So a 



^ 






I! g 



CO 



3. w 
W J 
" a. 

"lag 
if 



>3 fflM 
wo 



H 

■^ W -^ 



.a ^ 



o a 



Kg 

mCQ 






9^ 

si 



o a 

"Ha 



5n 



§1 

jj ft h- « *i 



S§8 



ra 



■§ 
§ 



M., 



5° 



1 



o a' 

•D O 

e " 

s 



<« « y 

o 
u 



t-o 



W t 

H< h 

& ! 

W ' 

m 

o 

a 

5? < 
S n 

S S2 




■"HH 
DQ O 



a^ 

-fllCO 
•-•HtO 



a 



a a 



I. X 



>< a 
<3 a 

a 
«9 



« 

CO 

a 



,fc!3 ^ 



» 






&w 



« g 



102 



LOW COST COOKING 



£§ 



3 g 

t< s 

E s 

J; a d 

Hi 







I 

« : 



— w 
2« 






«9 
ago 

MM 



oQ 



^ C3 Q 
HqEH 

Pa 






n 

Q 
HO 

M BO 



O 
low 

p 

O Ea 
tog 



NiB 



2"_ 

so 

tH-<iH 

2 3 

a 



»§ I 






'^ H 
BS 

a om 

O Jh 

-«i W p 

to Og 
M ^ B 

-■ '^H 

3o 

go 
i. » s 
n a u 

V <] 

c b 






Bo 

p ga 
o r! a 

>-l,^Ct4 o 

o mS!2 
o o ^ 



U Bh 



'3 



ogo 

KM Q 

a >:) 



HI 



» H 

= a 

l_ < 



fa -"fa 

^ Si 

B -^O 

S M 
g -< 

i-i H o 

^atu 

<] O fa 
gHQH 
U OB 
O fa 

n o 
B o 

it 



i 

>» M 

m i:^ 

■p B 



Mb 

B fa 
Ofa 

h O 



a 






a. -B ■< 
„ faB 

ao. e( 

Bo 

p, « 



O 



.K 



B gJ „ 

V »S < 

(0 u 



B 
— fa 
t-fa 

CD o 

cob 
M p 
-'B 
"SI 

Mj 

■^a 



>t bB 



8 









MENUS 



103 



9 ^ 


i 


^"^ 


h 


(14 






b 


5 




Hi 


•4 aa 


3 « a 




g^g 




tJOlzl 


S"§ 





EH m 



S 

lis 



St- 



«« 
^ o 



Q 
H 

IN a 

o 



m a 






S g 



H — « 



oS « 



00 



n 



§21" 



u 



si; 



OH 

B 






fa ->i 

O H 

o 



o W 
5" 

gS 

^§ 
iJ 

■a 

m 
S 

13 



HI 

« ■ 



sm 

o o 
< 



is 

n 



o 
gg 






19 



n 



ME 



^ i 



O 

t<3 



I 



•s 






s s 

m hi 

Sa § 



w t 

et ! 

>t Q 

as s 
•a M » 

CO P4 
O -al fa 

SI'S R 



It s 

OB o 
M fc fa" 

a-<"EH 

SS o 
Sg a 

45 a Q a 

P 6)0 
I- o 



H 

n 

o 

g 

fa 
n gfH§ 

"o a m 

CO -dj 

= aEH 

> < 






n 






>. Sho 
« ^ fa 

I. QO 

I- fa 



30 



wbS 

a9 
<a 

>, OH 



■* a 
go 



■Eg 



■E 



fa 

5 5 o 
CO S « 



«Seo 

Q £ I-* 

O P^ o 
K M *^ 

S ^ s 
«og 

IS" 
3 " 



I04 



LOW COST COOKING 



CO i^ 



«5 



MS 
a 

H 



H 

So ^ 

H to 



o9 






O H 



5 h 

CO H 

i w 



PJZ 
W s 

-<4 O t4 
m-ilo 
U " 

Pi 
■^ J -4 

MO 



M S 

s B 



OH 
« E< 

no 
n 



119 M 

S a 

"So 
aiS 



M 9 ^ E3 



3 



I 



f 







t)«a 
a ►> 

i-iE(P< 
BS O S 
f,OM 



Sin ► 

g-dIN s 

H ^ C 

P r. ^ & 

Sag s 

SgKg 

QQ S ^ 

Q . 

O "^ 

o » 

fi n 



HJSg 

a-<» 
gau 

n ri b 

H 
H 



Qoa 

•*o 

^a 



0.0 

o" 
o 



3° 

a o 

§ " 

a 
a 

oaio 

Sr 

a »~* O 






CO"^ 

on 

^o 
eQ» 

g a 

a i 
|a I 
IS " 

Is 



^_3 



■5a 

■23 



^ CO 
OH S 

i" a 
"U ° 

3 fH P 
JZWO 

m 



HI4 



W 






a 

"-I 
ga 
ga 

<N a 
« 3 



>> -^l 



^a 

ca 



3 



g 



MENUS 



los 



X 

>■ 

MB 
03 

I" 

i a 

WS9 

?«§ 

S EHH 

ri Hfci 
"Ofe 

OS 
BM 

as 



15 ;^ =• 






Qj O ^ 

iill 



fc 






B°» 

gnn 

"turn 
h3 

S« a 
^ ll 



H 
H 
P 

HI 
Sims' 






ot4 

as 



«!■* 

Q m 

OH 

00 



So 



o^ B 

O M o 
y -a] H &( 



s 



cu^ 



HO-< E 
faM9 C 



a 






Ejia 

is 



is" 

Oh 
o 



QO 
"SO- 



03 






Sgo 
<^ a o 

(J 



a 



00 pj 

Ess 






off 



I 



«sa 

SB 



nzra 

^a a 
c« ^ 

ON g 

So 
u 



MM S 

3s : 

ft" 
gg \ 

WW ' 

tiM 1. 
lit 

p '^ t3 

lsg 



00 

rag 
M ■ 



to 3 

■» s 

H " 

a o 

§ 3 

paag 






1:1 

"61 

gl 

Bgi 
O 



h^ 03 
eg 

a§B 

Sag; 






u a 

a -4 






t Wg 

a "o 

g « 

>.o 

Is ^ 

itg g 



^ i 

s 3 

S 3 

HP § 

^^ s 

>:i o S 

^"ga 
a«S 

^ Q p 

B a Q 



OM 



Sg 

3 

n 
(0 



^^B 



B 
00m 

O »} 

«sS 



e 5 

a s 



o 
o 
a 



5< 



a <i 
2 g 



o 



io6 



LOW COST COOKING 



T?S ° 

— -^ rt 

H§B 



iji 

^ s 



H-ag 

ll 3 

n a 



9 » 

Mo " 
t<B fa 

J ft" 

IH ^ B 

gOb 

!5Q§ 
bbl Q 

K« 

2" 



nl 

ea 
On 



V 



Eo 



Pegs 



Mwo 

ogS 
So » 

Sh 

M b 

b) b 
GO O 



I 



K w « 

H H H 

^ r a 

MB W 
B O 

n 






n 



H >0 H 



e as 

Q M 

b 






MS 



^1 ' 






S 00 
o» 



3g 



«4 ES 

as 



Bam 

B a 

a < 






.— «R 


M 


mh a 




nf 






m^lH 


a 


s 




n 










s 




s 




< 




u 




1 





tA B id 

Kb- R S >H 

" Q 

Q-<1 



B 
B 

Id 

V 

a 
< 






oaco 



B 
GO Qj 

>Jb 

o 



00 "^ 

E3 50 "^ 



<ia 



<5 B 

■5 H 



OjO 



S 



3^ w 

EHQO « 
CO 

s o 

■<§ ^ 

aiB j4 

O p 

>ib3 09 b 
VB i 
$» b 
ho o 



I 



a 3 r I 



GO 



n 

ig 

»od 

^05 a 
n< a 

■OOb 

• o 

cao 



g 
b 

•0 

a 



GOb- 

o 

ei» 

o« 

5 GO DO H 
PI 
OQ« 

ga S 

f a § 
I- u 



sa 



2Sga 



o 

fa 

<5B 



OM S 
H- g 

HO . 

GO n p 

Bag 
-iSg 



OQ BH 
CQ pq ti 






■« 






COST FOR ONE MONTH 

The following quantities are estimated as sufficient for 
a family of man, woman and four children over 4 and under 
13 years of age. The same amount of food would be 
enough for a family consisting of a woman and six chil- 
dren under 14. In the latter case, however, the menus 
should be modified to give more milk for the children and 
less meat will be needed. The cost would remain the same. 

The prices quoted are those for the year 1914 in Chicago. 
Of course these vary greatly in different parts of the city,- 
and prices of fruits and vegetables fluctuate from week to 
week and even from day to day. If the particular kinds 
mentioned in the menu cannot be bought at the price named 
some other kind cheaper that day can usually be found 
and used instead. Allowance is made for unavoidable loss 
in cooking and preparing but not for any waste of good 
food materials being thrown away. 



WINTER MENUS. 
Cereals and Breadstuffs. 



White flour 49 lbs $1.40 

Rye flour 3 lbs .15 

Graham flour 3 lbs .15 

Oatmeal (bulk) 4 lbs .20 

Cornmeal 6 lbs .15 

Cracked wheat I lb .06 



Rice (broken) 3 lbs 

Rice (whole) i lb 

Hominy 2 lbs 

Farina 2 lb 

Barley I lb 



Legumes. 



Navy beans 3 lbs $ .18 

Kidney beans I lb .08 

Lima beans 2 lbs .16 

Lentils 2 lbs .14 

Vegetables 



Split peas 2 lbs 

Black eyed peas ... i lb 



$ .12 
.07 
■OS 
.10 
.08 

$2-53 

$ .12 
.06 



$74 



Potatoes I bu 

Sweet potatoes 3 lbs 

Turnips 8 lbs 

Rutabaga 8 lbs 

Cabbage 8 lbs 

Beets 6 lbs 

Carrots 10 lbs 

Onions i pk 

Dates 2 lbs 

Figs 2 lbs 



AND Fruits. 

$ .90 Seedless raisins 2 lbs $ .20 

.10 Prunes 3 lbs .30 

.16 Dried apples S lbs .70 

.12 Dried apricots i lb .20 

.24 Dried peaches 2 lbs .24 

.12 Bananas 2 doz .20 

.20 Fresh apples i J4 pks .45 

.20 Oranges I doz .24 

.20 Lemons 2 .05 

.20 Canned tomatoes ...Yi doz .60 

$5.62 
107 



io8 



LOW COST COOKING 



Meats, Eggs, 

Milk 70 qts $5.60 

Hamburger steak.. 7 lbs .84 

Beef for stew 4 lbs .40 

Mutton for stew... 2 lbs .24 
Fresh pork shoulder 3 lbs .42 

I salt pork shoulder 8 lbs 1.28 

Flank steak 4^ lbs .63 

Calves' hearts ij^ lbs .18 

Fat salt pork 3 lbs .36 

Bacon strips 8 lbs 1.60 

Round steak i^ lbs 



Sugar IS lbs 

Tapioca i lb 

Black olives i lb 

Coflfee 4 lbs 

Tea J4 lb 

Cocoa 54 11> -06 



Fats, Etc. 

Corn beef brisket. . 

Codfish , 

Salt fish 

Eggs 

Cheese 

Oleomargarine . . . 

Suet 

Leaf fat 

Beef heart 

Beef for pot roast. 



1 lb 

2 lbs 

3 lbs 

4 doz 
2 lbs 
8 lbs 
4 lbs 
4 lbs 

1 lb 

2 lbs 



$ 



.14 

•30 

.40 

1.28 

•44 
1.76 
.20 
•44 
•IS 
.24 



•33 










$1; 


'.23 


Miscellaneous. 












.12 
1. 00 


Spices, flavoring. 

Salt 

Yeast 

Baking powder. . 
Salad oil 


etc, 


i6cks 


$ 


.10 
.10 
.16 


.20 


... 


.. 


.10 



Total for the Month, $28.89. 

SUMMER MENUS. 
Cereals and Breadstuffs. 

White flour 49 lbs $1.40 Cracked wheat I lb 

Graham flour 2 lbs .10 Rice (broken) 6 lbs 

Oatmeal (bulk) 3 lbs .15 Farina 2 lbs 

Cornmeal (bulk) . . 4 lbs .10 



Navy beans 2 lbs 

Lima beans i lb 



Legumes. 

$ .12 Kidney beans 2 lbs. 

.08 Split peas 2 lbs 



Vegetables 

Potatoes 3 pks | .75 

Kohlrabi 4 bch .10 

Carrots 8 bch .20 

Turnips 4 bch .10 

Beets 4 bch .10 

Spinach 2 pks .30 

Kale ipk .10 

Large onions 5^ pk .10 

Green onions 4 bch .10 

Radishes 4 bch .10 

Lettuce 12 bch .60 

Green beans I J^ qts .12 

Cucumbers .05 

Dried apricots yi lb .10 



AND Fruits. 
Dried peaches.... i lb 

Prunes 3 lbs 

Rhubarb 10 lbs 

Fresh peaches 4 doz 

Raisins 2 lbs 

Fresh tomatoes .... 
Canned tomatoes. . 2 cans 

Fresh apples i pk 

Dried apples lyi lbs 

Plums I basket 

Berries 4 boxes 

Gooseberries 3 boxes 

Lemons i doz 

Bananas 2 doz 



^2.77 



$ .06 


.24 


.10 


$2.15 


$.16 


.12 


$.48 


$ .12 


•30 


.20 


.20 


.20 


•05 


.20 


•25 


.20 


•30 


.30 


■30 


.20 


.20 



$S^84 



COST OF MENUS 



109 



Meats, Eggs, Fats, Etc. 



Milk 70 qts $5.60 

Buttermilk 12 qts .60 

Cottage cheese .10 

American cheese.. .254 lbs .55 

Lard 4 lbs .44 

Suet 3 lbs .15 

Oleomargarine .... 8 lbs 1.68 

Bacon strips 8 lbs 1.68 

Chopped meat 6 lbs .72 

Beef for pot roast. 8 lbs .96 

Boneless ham butt.. 2 lbs .40 

Codfish 3 lbs .30 

Beef for stew 6 lbs .72 



Lamb for stew 3 lbs $ .30 

Mutton for stew... 2 lbs .24 

Calves' hearts 3 lbs .36 

Round steak ij^lbs .33 

Veal for stew 2lbs .24 

Flank steak ij^lbs .21 

Tripe ij^lbs .15 

Neck bones 3 lbs .18 

Brains .15 

Eggs 8doz 1.92 

Salad oil i qt .35 



$18.33 



MiSCEUANEOUS. 



Sugar .18 lbs $ .90 

Tapioca i lb .08 

Coffee 4 lbs l.oo 

Tea 54 lb .20 

Cocoa ^ lb .06 



Flavorings, etc $.10 

Salt .10 

Yeast 16 cakes .16 

Baking powder .lO 



Total for the Month, $29.50. 



$2.70 



HOME MADE FIRELESS COOKER 

The use of a fireless cooker will save gas, keep the kitchen 
free from steam and heat and give excellent results with 
foods which require long, slow cooking. 

The principle on which it is made is that of keeping in 
the heat. Food is started cooking, then the kettle is tightly 
closed and placed where it will be so shut out from the air 
that the heat is held until the food is cooked. 

Almost every housekeeper has some large box with a 
lid, an old trunk or something of the sort which can be 
used. If not, the grocer can supply a tall cheese box or a 
butter tub for lo cents. 

For a cooking vessel choose one with straight sides or 
sides sloping upwards and a tight lid. A granite pail with 
a tin lid will do and may be bought for 30 cents. A 5-pound 
lard pail can be used. Aluminum or granite stock pots 
made for this purpose with clamped lids can be bought for 
80 cents to $2.00. 

Pack the bottom of the box or tub with an 8-inch layer 
of excelsior, straw, sawdust or crushed newspaper. Set 
the vessel to be used on this and pack the excelsior or paper 
tightly all around to the top of the kettle. When the kettle 
is lifted out a nest will be left into which it can be put again. 
Cut a strip of asbestos paper as wide as the kettle is high 
and long enough to reach around it. Line the nest with 
this. 

For the top make a cushion of thin white cloth filled 
with excelsior or paper. Make the cushion just large 
enough to fill the top of the box or tub and allow the lid to 
fit down closely over it. 

no 



FIRELESS COOKER 



III 



TIME TABLE FOR HOME-MADE FIRELESS COOKER 



Meats 


Proportion 


Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Beef Pot Roast 


2 lbs. 


30 min. simmer 


6 hrs. 


Pork and 


2 lbs. 






Sauerkraut 


iqt. 


30 rain, simmer 


6 to 7 hrs. 


Stewed Chicken 


I chicken 
water to cover 


30 min. simmer 


8 hrs. or more 


Fresh Vegetables Time on Fire Time in Cooker , 


Carrots 


Smin 


. boil 


3 hrs. or more 


Beets 


Smin 


. boil 


3J4 hrs. or more 


Turnips 


smin 


1. boil 


2 hrs. 


Peas 


smin 


1. boil 


3 hrs. 


Cabbage 


smin 


1. boil 


ihr. 


String Beans 


smin 


I. boil 


6 hrs. 


Potatoes 


smin 


1. boil 


i}^ hrs. 


Legumes 


Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Navy Beans after soaking 


30 min. boil 


8 hrs. 


Split Peas 


12 hrs. 


30 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Lentils 




30 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Cereals 


Proportions 


Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Rolled Oats 


I cup 






Cream of Wheat 


water 3 cups 


S min. boil 


2 to 12 hrs. 


Farina 


water 3 cups 


S min. boil 




Cornmeal 


I cup 
water 5 cups 


S min. boil 


5 to 12 hrs. 


Hominy Grits 


I cup 


S min. boil 


10 hrs. or more 


Rice 


water 5 cups 








I cup 


S min. boil 


ihr. 


Macaroni 


water 4 cups 








I box 


S min. boil 


ij^hr. 


Dried Fruits 




Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Prunes — Apricots 


soak 6 hrs. 


S min. boil. 


4 to 6 hrs. 


Raisins — Peaches 


or all night 


S min. boil 


4 to 6 hrs. 


Apples 









COLD LUNCHES 

If a cold lunch must be eaten by any member of the 
family, it should be very carefully prepared and should 
have as much variety as possible. A cold lunch soon 
becomes exceedingly distasteful if it is always the same. 
The substantial part of the lunch must usually be sand- 
wiches with fresh fruit if possible and sometimes cake or 
cookies, or candy. 

The lunch box or basket may be divided into two or 
four parts by making partitions of strips of pasteboard. 
Each compartment should be lined with white paper fresh 
each day. In this way different kinds of food can be kept 
separate and it will be possible to carry baked beans and 
salads of all kinds in one compartment where they will not 
injure the other foods. 

SANDWICHES 

Slice bread for sandwiches very thin, put in the filling 
and cut them the size and shape desired. It is better to 
have each sandwich small as this makes them more appe- 
tizing. They should be very carefully wrapped in oiled 
paper so they will not dry out. The following are some 
suggestions for making filling for sandwiches. 

1. Sliced Meats. 

Ham, roast or boiled beef, etc., sliced thin. When such meat 
is used for the family dinner, cut off some good slices for the 
next day's lunch. Home-cooked meats cost only about one- 
third as much as the ready-cooked. 

2. Chopped Meats. 

Ham, pork, beef, mutton, etc., chopped fine, with seasoning such 
as mustard, salad dressing, etc. All leftover meats can be used in 
this way and made into tasteful sandwiches. 

3. Bacon, fried crisp. 

Dip one side of the bread to be used in the hot drippings, lay 
the pieces of bacon inside. This is good with cornbread. 
112 



SANDWICHES 1 13 

4. Lettuce. 

Spread a leaf of lettuce with cooked salad dressing and place 
between slices of buttered bread. Or, use cottage cheese instead 
of salad dressing. 

5. Nut Sandwiches. 

Chopped or ground peanuts or other nuts, moistened with 
salad dressing or melted butter. 

6. Nut and Fruit. 

Use dried figs, raisins or dates, chopped fine and mixed with 
ground nuts. 

7. Cheese. 

Make a layer of grated cheese between slices of buttered 
bread. It may be moistened with syrup. 

8. Egg. 

Hard-cooked egg chopped fine, moistened with hot drippings 
or butter, or salad dressing; sweet green pepper chopped fine 
may be added; or fried egg placed between pieces of bread. 

9. Baked Beans. 

Mash the beans fine, add a little mustard and vinegar, or any 
other seasoning desired, and place between buttered bread. 

10. Sweet Sandwiches. 

Mash the pulp of stewed fruit, dates, figs, prunes, etc., and 
spread between buttered bread. A thick marmalade may be used 
for this. 

WHEN THE MOTHER WORKS OUTSIDE THE 

HOME 

Many of the menus given require more of the house- 
keepers' attention and time than she can give if in addition 
to her own home keeping she must do outside work for the 
support of her family. 

If the fire is to be kept going all day during her absence, 
stews, meat soups, kettles of legumes with meat, or of 
cereal, and other dishes requiring long cooking, can be 
cooked on the top of the stove ; or baked beans, peas, or len- 
tils be left in the oven to be ready for the evening meal. 
If the fire is not to be kept, a fireless cooker should be used 
for such dishes as these. They can be put into the cooker 
before the mother goes out to work and will cook while she 
is away. The children can be instructed to put potatoes for 
. baking in the oven an hour before meal time, so that a good 
meal will be almost ready when the mother returns. 



114 LOW COST COOKING 

If the children are to eat a lunch prepared by themselves, 
it will be wise to make milk an important part of the meal. 
Bread with either hot or cold milk and fruit or jam makes 
a good lunch, or a creamed soup or creamed vegetable 
which the children can re-heat for themselves in the Winter, 
or eat cold in the Summer. 

The following may help some little housekeeper who 
wants to have the house in order when her mother returns 
tired out from the day's work. 

Program for Work When Mother Is Away From Home 
Each child old enough to work must help as the house- 
work is too much for one child under 14 years of age. The 
older one may plan and have the others work under her 
direction. 

6 :30 A. M. — Rise. On rising, open the beds and leave the 
bed clothing neatly spread out to air with the windows all 
open. Have each child do this for his own bed. 

Wash hands and face and dress fully before starting to 
cook breakfast. Set the breakfast table neatly and all sit 
down to eat together. Insist that each child be washed and 
dressed before coming to the breakfast table. 

After breakfast wash dishes at once, one child washing, 
another wiping and putting away. Clean the sink, put every- 
thing in place, and sweep the kitchen. This much should be 
finished by 10 a. m. at latest. During the part of the year 
when the children are going to school they should plan to 
do this much before dressing for school. The beds may be 
left to air all day and made when school is over. 

10 A. M. — Make the beds, two children working at each 
bed at the same time; set bed rooms and sitting room in 
order; brush up floors if necessary, and dust. This should 
be finished by 1 1 a. m. at latest, so that there will be time 
for rest or play before getting lunch. 

After lunch is over wash these dishes at once so that the 
house will be in order again for the afternoon and there 
will be time to rest and play before time to start things 
cooking for the supper. 



DISH WASHING 

When children hate dish washing it is because they do 
not think about what an important and fine thing it is to 
take articles unfit for use and make them fit. A dirty dish 
is fit for nothing. To take this and make it beautifully 
clean and free from germs ready to be used for food is in- 
teresting work and is pleasant when properly done. 

Plenty of hot water with soap or soda is necessary. Al- 
ways fill the kettle after taking water from it. There must 
also be clean dry towels for wiping the dishes. Sugar sacks, 
which the grocer sells 3 for 10 cents make excellent ones. 
They should always be washed out immediately after using 
as they are hard to wash after drying. They must be boiled 
every few days to keep them from having unclean odors. 

Piling and Soaking 

Scrape all bits of food from dishes on to one plate and 
empty this in the garbage pail which should be lined with 
newspaper. Pile dishes of the same kind together and put 
to soak those that would otherwise be hard to wash. Rinse 
milk glasses with cold water and soak dishes containing egg 
or dough in cold water, others in hot water. Fill cooking 
dishes which have had food burned in them with water in 
which washing soda has been dissolved, boil until they can 
be easily washed. 

Washing 

Wash the cleanest articles first, glass, silver and cups, in 
pan of hot water with soap or soda. Rinse in another pan 
containing clear hot water or pile on a rack and pour over 
them enough hot water to remove the dirty soapy water. 
Dry and arrange neatly on pantry shelves. 

"S 



Il6 LOW COST COOKING 

MAKING THE BEDS 

Turn the mattress over, spread on the lower sheet, stretch- 
ing very tight and tucking it under the mattress. The broad 
hem of the sheet belongs at the top, the narrow one at the 
bottom. Spread on the upper sheet and the blankets or com- 
forters leaving the sheet 8 or 9 inches longer at the top 
than the covers so that it may be turned back over them to 
protect them from getting dirty. Tuck all under the mat- 
tress with square corners, pulling down tight without crease ; 
put the spread on evenly and lay the pillows on squarely. 

SWEEPING AND DUSTING 

Before sweeping, see that no uncovered food is in the 
room or anything that dust will injure. Open doors and 
windows. Sweep out the corners well and sweep towards 
the center of the room, or open door using short strokes 
and holding the broom close to the floor so that the dust 
will fly about as little as possible. In winter snow may be 
scattered over dusty carpet to keep dust down. Damp saw- 
dust and coarse salt are also good for this purpose. A soft 
cloth makes the best duster. Do not forget to wipe the dust 
off the rungs of the chairs, table legs and other parts of 
furniture partly hidden. Shake the duster out of window 
after using, and wash it often. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 

Many foods good for adults are very harmful to the 
weaker digestive system of a child. A child's stomach can 
no more do the work of a man than his hands can do a 
man's work. Since the menus given are planned for a 
family including children, most of the dishes given may be 
eaten by children over four years of age. The food for a 
child under four requires more special attention and must 
be specially prepared. 

Things a Child Under Four Must Not Eat 

1. Heavy meats, such as ham, sausage, pork, dried beef, 
corned beef, liver, etc. Give a little scraped beef or 
mutton, meat broth, or minced chicken. If milk and 
eggs are freely given it is not necessary to give meat at 
all. 

2. Strong acid fruits, such as lemon and tomato, or pickles. 

3. Pie and pastry of all kinds, and nuts. 

4. Freshly baked bread, hot rolls, rich cake. 

5. Fried vegetables of all kinds. 

6. Raw vegetables, such as onions, radishes, cucumbers. 

7. Green corn and dried beans, unless these are put through 
a sieve or colander. 

8. Raw bananas and preserved fruits. Stale or very ripe 
fruits. Fruits with hard seeds. 

9. Most important of all — stimulants, such as beer or any 
alcoholic beverages; tea and coffee. Of these tea and 
coffee are the ones most likely to be given to children. 

These are some of the reasons why stimulants should not 
be given children : 

(a) If a child is given stimulants he feels satisfied with- 
out food, or with a smaller amount than is needed, 
and the result is that his growth is stunted, 
(b) Coffee and tea having a pleasant flavor spoil the 
taste of the child for cereals, vegetables, milk and 
other wholesome foods which have little flavor. 
117 



Il8 LOW COST COOKING 

Therefore, it becomes more difficult for the mother 
to teach the child to eat the things necessary for 
his proper growth and development. 

(c) Coffee and tea in excess affect the kidneys and may 
be responsible for much of the kidney disease now 
so common among children. 

(d) Coffee and tea in excess weaken the nervous sys- 
tem and injure the heart. 

Regular Habits 

Not only must a child be taught what to eat but he must 
be carefully trained as to eating times. A child needs food 
oftener than a grown-up person, but should have regular 
meals and be given nothing between. 

A child under four years needs at least four meals and 
if five meals suit the mother's arrangements better, this 
number will not be harmful. His sleeping hours should 
be arranged to come between meals, and should be kept just 
as strictly as meal time. 

School children need a light lunch after school. It should 
be something that will not tempt them to eat much, so as to 
spoil their appetite for supper. Bread or cold toast or 
fruit or milk is suitable. 

Never give candy or sweets between meals, but always at 
the end as a dessert. 

Food for a Child Under One Year 

If a child must be artificially fed or when the time comes, 
at 6 to 9 months, when it needs other food in addition to or 
in place of its mother's milk, the advice of a physician who 
is a specialist in the feeding of children should if possible 
be obtained. Bad feeding at this time is exceedingly dan- 
gerous, as the large number of deaths among small children 
show. ' 

A healthy, well grown child of one year can be given 
clean, fresh milk, whole or mixed with water, strained 
orange juice or prune juice; several kinds of cereal after 
they are strained, and a few vegetables such as spinach, 
carrot, asparagus, and cooked celery which have been 
mashed through a strainer. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 119 

When a child first begins to have meat it should be given 
scraped beef or mutton. To prepare use a piece of lean 
meat cut like steak across the grain of the meat. In scrap- 
ing, the substance of the meat can be gotten out, leaving 
behind the tough fibers. Form into pats and broil. 

The following sample diet shows the amount and kind of 
food necessary for young children. 

Menu for Child iJ^ Years — Weight About 26 Pounds 

7:00 A. M. 2 tablespoons farina (measured raw) 
J4 cup milk 

2 tablespoons orange juice 
10:00 A. M. I cup junket or milk 

12 :30 P. M. I small baked potato 

I slice bread and butter 
I slice bacon 
^ cup milk 
2 :30 P. M. I egg yolk on toast crumbs 
I slice bread 
54 cup spinach pressed through strainer 
S :30 P. M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
J4 cup milk 

3 prunes 

The farina and oatmeal must be cooked for at least 2 
hours and the oatmeal should be strained. Prunes and 
spinach should be put through strainer. Prunes may be 
given mixed with the oatmeal. 

Junket makes the milk easier to digest. Directions for 
making on page 58. 

Cook the egg soft and use the soft yolk, hot, on the 
freshly toasted bread crumbs. 

Carrot, lettuce and celery, cooked soft and mashed through 
a strainer, may be used instead of spinach. 

Bacon must be cut thin and fried crisp. The fat from 
the bacon may be eaten with the bread instead of butter. 



I20 LOW COST COOKING 

Menu for Child 2^ Years — Weight About 30 Pounds 

7 :oo A. M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
Yi cup top milk 
2 large prunes 
I cup milk 
10 :oo A. M. J4 cup milk 
I slice toast 
J4 cup carrot pressed through strainer 
I slice bacon 
2 :oo P. M. I cup milk 

I small baked potato 
I egg 

I small baked apple 
I teaspoon sugar 
6 :oo P. M. Milk toast 

(2 slices toast, ^ cup milk) 
2j^ tablespoons hominy with milk (dry) 

The same amount can be arranged in 3 or 5 meals. Some 
physicians are now advising only three meals for children 
even as young as 18 months. Green beans and peas, spinach, 
onion, lettuce and celery cooked soft and mashed fine 
or put through strainer, may be used instead of carrots. 

Orange juice, ripe mashed peaches, apple sauce and the 
juice of almost all fruits not too sour may be used as well 
as those named. 

Importance of Breakfast for School Children 
No meal is so important to school children as breakfast. 
It is easy for the child to form the habit of running away 
to school without eating at all or with only a cup of coffee. 
This leaves the child all morning with no food to furnish 
the body with material for growth, and will surely have the 
effect of stunting his growth. A cup of coffee is worse 
than no breakfast at all, because the coffee stimulates the 
body and makes it wear out faster. Coffee with a sweet 
roll or cake is almost as bad, as the roll or cake contains 
only a small part of the nourishment the child needs. A 
breakfast of cereal and milk does not cost as much as coffee 
and rolls and gives good material to grow on. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 121 

It is the aim of every intelligent mother to learn how to 
save her children from needless illness. Many mothers 
would like a reliable test by which they may know whether 
their children are perfectly well and developing properly. 
A pamphlet lately pubhshed by the National Children's 
Bureau gives these rules: 

Every child should show: 
A steady gain in weight, height and intelligence. 
Good appetite ; clear skin ; bright, wide-open eyes ; con- 
tented expression. 
Very little crying. 
Bowel movements of the normal number, color and 

consistency. 
Quiet, unbroken sleep, with eyes and mouth tightly 
closed. 
It adds that the way to secure these results is by giving 
children proper food at regular times, keeping them clean, 
giving them plenty of sleep at regular hours, fresh air day 
and night, and training them in regular habits of living. 

If a child is not growing and gaining steadily in weight 
there is something wrong and the mother should try to find 
out what it is. The following list will give an idea of the 
weight and height a child of a certain age should have 
attained. 

AVERAGE WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF CHILDREN. ' 

— Pounds — — Inches — 

Boys Girls Boys Girls 

1 year 20.5 19.8 29.0 287 

2 years 26.5 25.5 32.5 32.5 

3 years 312 30.0 35.0 35.0 

4 years 35-0 340 38.0 38.0 

5 years 41-2 39-8 41-7 41-4 

6 years 45-1 43-8 44-0 43-6 

7 years 49-5 480 46.2 45.9 

8 years S4S 52-9 48.2 48.0 

9 years 60.0 57.5 50.1 49.6 

10 years 66.6 64.1 52.2 51.8 

11 years 72-4 70.3 S40 53-8 

12 years 79-8 81.4 SS-8 S7i 

13 years 88.3 91.2 58.2 58.7 

14 years 99-3 100.3 61.0 60.3 

15 years 110.08 108.04 63.0 61.4 

16 years 1237 "30 65.6 617 



122 LOW COST COOKING 

GOVERNMENT BULLETINS 

Free. Send to the Department of Agriculture, Washingfton, D. C. 

No. 391 Economical Use of Meats in the Home. 

No. 256 Preparation of the Vegetable for the Table. 

No. 203 Canned Fruits, Preserves and Jellies. 

No. 389 Bread and Bread Making. 

No. 565 Corn Meal as Food and Ways of Using It. 

Other Bulletins and Books 

Freehand Cooking on Scientific Principles. 10 cents. American 
School of Home Economics. 

Lessons in Cooking Through Preparation of Meals, Robinson 
and Hammel. $1.50 (cloth edition). American School of Home 
Economics. 

Low Cost Recipes, Jacobs. 75 cents. 

Economical Cooking for Two, Gibbs. 20 cents. 

Housekeeping Notes, Kittredge. 80 cents. 



INDEX 



Accounts, Keeping, 6 

Appetizers, 62 

Apple Baked with Kaisins, 85 

Cake, Dutch, 23 

Cobbler, 69 

Jelly, 61 

Sauce, 82, 87 

Tapioca, 99 
Apricots, Dried, 72 

Babies' Food, 118 
Bacon, Fried, 67 
Baked Apple, 85 

Banana, 50, 77 

Beans, 40 

Croquettes, 91 

Fish, 37 

Peas, 40 

Potatoes, 45 

Rhubarb, 53 
Bakery Foods, Cost of, 14 
Baking Powder Biscuits, 24 

Proportions Used, 17 
Balanced Diet, 8 
Banana, Baked, 53, 77 
Bean and Tomato Soup, 52 

Polenta, 73 

Soup, 52 
Beans, Baked, 40 

Boiled with Meat, 71 

Boiled with Tomatoes, 39 

Creamed Kidney, etc., 41 

String, 49 

With Cheese, 39 
Bed Making, 116 
Beef a la Mode, 34 

Soup, 68 

Stew with Vegetables, 32 
Beet Greens, 46, 98 

Salad, 95 
Beets, Boiled, 80 

Buttered, 44 

Pickled, 81 
Beverages, 63 
Biscuits, Baking Powder, 24 

Drop, 24 

Graham, 83 



Boiled Beans with Meat, 71 

Beans with Tomatoes, 39 

Eggs, 38 

Potatoes, 45 

Klce, 30 

Salad Dressing, 48 
Boston Baked Beans, 40 
Brains, 37 

Scrambled with Eggs, 37 
Braised Cutlets, 34 

Heart, 37 

Steak, 77 
Braising, 33 
Bran Bread, 22 
Bread, Bran, 22 

Corn, 26 

Graham, 22 

Rye, 22 

White, 21 

Whole Wheat, 22 
Breakfast Foods, 27 
Brittle, Nut, 58 
Broiling, 35 
Broth, Scotch, 33 
Brown Betty, 53 

Grary, 93 

Stew, 33 

Sugar Syrup, 79 
Browned Parsnips, 44 
Buying, Economy In, 11 

In Quantity, 15 

Cabbage, Hashed, 44 

Salad, 85 
Cake, 55 

Spice, 100 
Calves' Heart, Fried, 93 

StutEed, 37 
Cambric Tea, 63 
Candy, 58 

Canned Goods, Cost of, 13 
Caramel, 55 

Cream Candy, 58 

Junket, 58 

Sauce, 56 

Syrup, 67 
Carrots, Creamed, 70 



123 



124 



LOW COST COOKING 



Catsup, Tomato, 62 
Cereal Drinks, 64 
Cereals, Cooking, 28 

Prices of, 12 
Cheese in Cream Gravy, 42 

With Beans, 39 

With Potatoes, 45 
Children, Feeding and Care of, 116 

Menus for Young, 119 

Milk for, 9 

Protein for, 9 

Weight and Height of, 121 
Children's Drinks, 62 

Food, 7, 113 

Work, Program for, 114 
Chocolate Cake, 96 

Cream Pudding, 54 

Sauce, 56 
Chopped Meats, 34 
Cinnamon Rolls, 22 

Rolls, Baking Powder, 25 

Tea, 63, 73 
Cobbler, Dried Apple, 69 
Cocoa, 62 

Shells, 64 
Coddled Eggs, 94 
Codfish Hash, 95 
Coffee, 62, 67 

Cake, 23 
Cold Lunches, 112 
Composition of Foods, Table of, 16 
Cookies, Oatmeal, 57 

Bran, 57 
Corn Beef with Vegetables, 82 
Corn Bread, 26 

Shortened, 26 

Southern, 71 
Corn Meal Griddle Cakes, 66 

Mush, 81 
Corn on Cob, 34 

Pone, 26 
Cost of Month's Menus, 107 
Cottage Pudding, 56 
Cream of Bean Soup, 51 

Lima Bean Soup, 51 

Navy Bean Soup, 94 

Sauce, 42 

Soups, 50 
Cream Toast, 95 
Creamed Carrots, 70 

Kidney Beans, etc., 41 



Lima Beans, 41 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 45 

Rutabaga, 85 

Salt Fish, 42 

Salt Pork, 76 

Vegetables, 44 
Croquettes, Baked, 91 

Meat, 36 
Croutons, 50 
Cruist for Cobbler, 69 
Cucumber Pickle, 62 
Cup Cakes, 56 

Desserts and Sweets, 53 

Flavoring for, 55 
Diet, Balanced, 8 
Dishwashing, 115 
Dressing for Fish, 37 

Salad, 48 
Dried Apple Cobbler, 69 

Apricots and Peaches, 72 

Foods, Cost of, 13 

Fruits, 53 
Drinks for Children, 63 
Drinks, Summer, 64 
Dumplings for SteW|S, 33 
Dusting, 116 

Eating, Habits of, 118 
Economy in Buying, 11 
Eggs, Coddled, 94 

Cooking of, 38 

Scrambled, 84 

Scrambled with Potatoes, 38 

Scrambled with Tomatoes, 38 
English Monkey, 100 

Farina Mush, 92 

With Date Sauce, 28 
Fats, Economical, 12, 66 
Feeding of Children, 117 
Fig Preserves, 61 
Pigs, Stewed, 78 
Fireless Cooker, Home-made, 110 
Flreless Cooking, Time Table for, 

111 
Fish, 37 

Cakes, 95 
Flank Steak, Braised, 77 

Broiled, 35 



INDEX 



125 



Flavor, Cost of, 14 
Flavoring for Desserts, 65 
Food and the Body, 6 

For Babies, 118 

For Children, 117 

For the Child, 7, 113 
Foods, Composition of, 16 

For Building and Bepalr, 8 

Furnishing Energy, 7 

Furnishing Minerals, 19 
French Salad Dressing, 93 

Toast, 27 
Fried Bacon Strips, 67 

With Eggs, 98 
Fried Calves, Heart, 93 

Corn Meal Mush, 29 

Hominy Mush, 78 

Salt Pork, 76 
Frozen Desserts, 59 
Fruit Ice, 59 

Puddings, Steamed, 54 

Toast, 88 

Ginger Bread, 57, 80 
Graham Biscuits, 83 

Bread, 22 

Mush, 72 
Grain Products, 21 
Greens, Beet, etc., 46 
Griddle Cakes, 25 

Corn, 25 

Rice, 26, 90 

Stale Bread, 25 

Habits of Eating, 118 
Hamburger Steak, 37 

With Tomatoes, 87 
Ham with Peas, 40 
Hashed Cabbage, etc., 44 

Kohlrabi, 87 

Potatoes, 45 

Spinach, 99 

Turnips, 44 
Heart, Fried, 93 

Stuffed, 37 
Hominy Baked with Cheese, 82 

Mush, Fried, 28, 78 
Hot Breads, 23 

Ice Cream, 59 
Indian Pudding, 54 



Jam, Date and Prune, 61 
Jellies, 60 
Jungle Stew, 41 
Junket, Caramel, 58 

Kidney Bean Loaf, 41 
Kitchen Utensils, 19 
Kohlrabi, 47 
Hashed, 87 

Lamb Stew, 33 

With Rice, 97 
Legumes, 37 
Lemon Sauce, 56 

Jelly, 58 
Lentil Loaf, 40 

Stew, 47 
Lentils with Rice, 29 
Lettuce and Green Onion Salad, 93 

With Cheese, 94 
lightning Cake, 56 
Lima Bean Puree, 77 

Bean Succotash, 42 
Lima Beans with Barley, 27 
Loaf, Lentil, etc., 40 
Lunch for School Children, 118 
Luncheon, Cereal Dishes, 29 
Lunches, Cold, 112 

Making Beds, 116 
Marmalade, Rhubarb, 61 
Mashed Potatoes, 45 
Measurements in Cooking, 20 
Meat Balls, 34 

Croquettes, 36 

Loaf, 35, 85 

Pie, 36 

Scalloped, 35, 36 

Soup, 68 
Meats, 31 
Menus, 65 

For Young Children, 119 

Summer, 104 

Winter, 101 
Milk for Children, 9 

Sour, In Cooking, 23 
Minerals, Food Furnishing, 10 
Muffins, Berry, 23 

Bran, 24 

Graham, etc., 23 

Oatmeal, 24 



126 



LOW COST COOKING 



Bice, 24 

Blee and Corn Meal, 79 

Eye, 23, 76 

White Flour, 23 
Mush, Cereal, 28 
Mutton Stew, 33 

Navy Bean Soup, 52 
Navy Beans with Bice, 29 
Nut Brittle, 58 
Nutmeg Sauce, 56 

Oatmeal, 28 

Cookies, 57 

Mush, 70 

Muffins, 24 

Soup, 29 

With Potatoes, 29 

With Baislnis, 28 
Oleomargarine, 13, 14 
Onions, Scalloped, 44 

Fanbroiled Flank Steak, 35 

Boujid Steak, 35 
Pantry, The, 19 
Parsnips, Browned, 44 
Peas, Baked, 40 

Green, 47 

With Carrots, 41 

With Ham, 40 
Pickled Beets, 81 
Pickles, 62 
Pie, Meat, 36 
Pllaf, Turkish, 36 
Plain Cake, 55 
Planked Fish, 37 
Poached Eggs, 38 
Polenta, 27 

Bean, 73 
Potato Cakes, 86 

Soup, 52 
Potatoes, Cooking, 44 
Pot Roast, 34 

With Vegetables, 89 
Preserves, 60 
Protein, 8 

For Adults, 19 

For Children, 9 
Prune and Date Jam, 61 
Prune Rolls, 22 



Pudding, Chocolate, 54 

Cottage, 56 

Indian, 53 

Rice, 53 

Steamed Fruit, 54 

Tapioca, 99 
Puree of Lima Beans, 77 

Pea, etc., 51 

Quick Cup Cakes, 56 

Raisins, Stewed, 82 
Rarebit, Rice and Cheese, 87 
Rhubarb and Fig Preserves, 61 

Baked, 53 

Marmalade, 61 

Sauce, 86 

Tapioca, 97 
Rice, Boiled, 30 

Griddle Cakes, 26, 90 

Muffins, 24 

Pudding, 53 

Soup, 79 

Steamed, 89 

With Cheese, 30 

With Fmit, 53 

With Lentils, 29 

With Navy Beans, 29 

With Stewed Fruit, 30 

With Tomatoes, 30, 68 
Riced Potatoes, 87 
Rolls, 22 

Rutabagas, Creamed, 44, 85 
Rye Bread, 22 

Muffins, 23, 76 

Salad, Cabbage, 85 

Dressing, 48 

Dressing, French, 93 
Salads, 48 
Salt Fish Hash, 95 

Pork in Milk Gravy, 76 

Proportion to Use, 7 

Scalloped, 80 
Sandwiches, 112 
Sauce, Chocolate, etc., 56 
Savory Rice, 30 
Scalloped Meat, 30, 36 

Meats, 35 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 44 



INDEX 



127 



Salt Fish, 80 

Tomatoes, 84 
Scotch Broth, 33 
Scrambled Eggs, 88, 84 
Setting the Table, 18 
Sherl^pt, 59 
Soft Cooked Eggs, 38 
Soup, Beef, 68 

Oatmeal, 29 

Rice, 79 
Soups, 49 
Sour Beets, 81 

Cream Soup, 51 

Milk, in Cooking, 23 
Southern Corn Bread, 71 
Spice Cake, 100 
Spinach, 46 

With Eggs, 99 
Split Pea Loaf, 91 

With Carrots, 41, 88 
Steak, Braised, 77 

Hamburger, 37 

Pan Broiled, 35 
Steamed Fruit Pudding, 54 

Eice, 30, 89 
Stewed Figs, 78 

Raisins, 82 
Stews, 32 

Vegetables, 41 

With Vegetables, 73 
String Beans, 47 
Stuffed Heart, 37 
Succotash, 42 
Suet Pudding, 57 
Summer Drinks, 64 

Menus, 104 

Vegetables, 46 
Supper Cereal Dishes, 29 



Sweeping and Dusting, 116 
Sweet Potatoes, 46 
Syrup, Brown Sugar, 79 
Caramel, 67 

Table Setting, 18 
Tapioca, Apple, etc., 99 
Tea, 63, 68 

Cinnamon, 73 

Toast, 71 
Thickening, Proportions of Flour 

for, 17 
Toast, 26 

Cream, 27, 96 

French, 27 

Milk, 27 

Tea, 64, 71 
Tomato Catsup, 62 

Salad, 48 
Tomatoes Scalloped, 84 
Tripe, 27 
Turkish Pilaf, 36 

Veal Stew, 32 
Vegetable Stew, 41, 73 
Vegetables, Cooking, 43 

Washing Dishes, 115 
Watermelon Rind Pickle, 62 
White Bread, 21 

Sauce, 42, 70 

Sauce, Thick, 85 
Whole Wheat Bread, 22 
Winter Meals, 66 

Menus, 101 

Vegetables, 43 

Yeast Bread, 21 






NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3433 





COST 
OOKING 



By FLORENCE NESBIfT 





SCH OOL^HOMB ECONOMICS 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 



Low COST COOKING 



BY 

FLORENCE NESBITT, B.A. 

FIELD SUPERVISOR AND DIETITIAN, DEPARTMENT OF BELIEF, JUVENILE COURT OF 

CHICAGO; LECTURER FOR THE CHICAGO VISITING NURSES' ASSOCIATION; 

FORMERLY VISITING HOUSEKEEPER OF THE UNITED 

CHARITIES OF CHICAGO 



A MANUAL OF COOKING, DIET, HOME MANAGEMENT 

AND CAEE OF CHILDEEN FOR HOUSEKEEPERS 

WHO MUST CONDUCT THEIR HOMES WITH 

SMALL EXPENDITURE OF MONEY 




r 

* 

; 



' 

*: " 
D * . * . * 

* : .' 




.* 



a 



*,' j* 

*/' * * * * y 

. t > 

a , e 

: .v.-?V..V 







CHICAGO 

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

1915 



THE ; 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 



I ijt 

ASTOR, LENOX AND 
TILDE.N FOUNDATIONS 

R 1916 L 



COPYRIGHT 1915 

BY 
HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



*\ c 











:' 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

BUSINESS OF HOME-MAKING . . . . . . .5 

FOOD AND THE BODY 

A WELL-BALANCED DIET 9 

ECONOMY IN BUYING ........ n 

TABLES OF COMPOSITION AND PROPORTION . . . . .16 

SETTING THE TABLE . . . . . 18 

GENERAL HOUSEHOLD DIRECTIONS . . . .19 

GENERAL RECIPES . ...... 21 

WEEK'S MENU FOR WINTER WITH DIRECTIC . . . .66 

WEEK'S MENU FOR SUMMER WITH DIRECTIONS . . .86 
ADDITIONAL THREE WEEKS' MENUS FOR WINTER . . . 101 
ADDITIONAL THREE WEEKS' MENUS TOR GLJMT.IER . . . 104 

CALCULATION OF COST .107 

HOUSEHOLD HELPS 

1. HOME-MADE FIRELESS ..... no 

2. COLD LUNCHES . . . . . . . . .112 

3. WHEN MOTHER WORKS OUTSIDE THE HOME . . .113 
FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN. . . . . . .117 

INDEX 223 



LOW COST COOKING 



THE BUSINESS OF HOME-MAKING 

IN MANY ways the business of home-making is the 
most important one in the world. To carry it on suc- 
cessfully requires no less thought, study and work than 
the merchant or mechanic gives to his business. Success 
is well repaid and failure brings wretchedness. The suc- 
cessful home-maker has well-fed, well-kept, well-trained 
children and a husband who, through proper home care, is 
made able to do his work and earn the money needed to 
pay the expenses of the home. The unsuccessful home- 
maker very often has sickly, poorly-developed children 
and a husband whose work is made less productive by the 
poor home conditions ; or, in many cases, one who satisfies 
with strong drink the craving left by lack of proper food. 

With plenty of money the average woman can easily 
furnish her family with comfortable living conditions and 
good food. The smaller the amount of money on which the 
home must be run and food bought the greater is the need 
of the home-maker for wisdom and skill in management. 
This book is compiled especially for the woman who has 
little money to spend, the endeavor being to give, as simply 
as possible, the things she most needs to know in order to 
get the best results from her money. Many women who 
are compelled to manage with the smallest possible amount 
have helped greatly in making the book by giving recipes 
and plans which they have found useful in their attempts 
to economize. 

Economizing on food is a most dangerous thing to try 
unless the housekeeper has an understanding of food values. 

5 



6 LOW COST COOKING 

She must know what foods are necessary for the health 
of her family and in what food materials she gets the most 
for her money, to be able to decide where it is wise and 
safe to cut and where unsafe. 

Every mother should study these things carefully, for she 
has the health and well being of her family in her keeping. 

Keeping Accounts 

No good business man would try to run his business 
without keeping books to show him just where his affairs 
stand, which purchases have been wise and which unwise. 
Keeping accounts is just as desirable in the business of 
housekeeping as in that of shop-keeping. It is much sim- 
pler, of course, and the housekeeper needs only a blank book 
in which she sets down each day the things she has bought, 
and the money she has received. For example : 

July ist 2 heads lettuce $ .05 

1 peck apples 20 

10 pounds sugar 50 

2 pounds chopped meat 30 

$1.05 

July 2nd 2 bunches carrots $ .05 

i bushel potatoes 30 etc. 

The housekeeper who goes thoughtfully over her own 
accounts at the end of each week or month will learn much 
from them. 

WHAT FOOD MUST DO FOR THE BODY 

We put coal, gas and other fuel into an engine so it can 
have the power to work. In exactly the same way we must 
give food to our bodies, so that our muscles can do the 
work that we wish them to do. But giving this power to 
work or "energy" to the body is not the only use of food. 

- *" 

The body is itself being constantly worn out, not only by 
the outside work it does but by its inside work; that is, 



FOOD AND THE BODY 7 

by the beating of the heart, workings of the stomach and 
other organs. It takes various kinds of food to repair 
these worn-out parts, and if they are not repaired just as 
fast as they are worn out, weak places are left in the body 
where disease germs may easily grow and it becomes dis- 
eased, perhaps tuberculous ; or, escaping disease, the body 
is worn out and old when it should be still young and strong. 

Food for the Child 

The child, too, needs a great deal of food for energy as 
it is always moving about in play or work, and it also needs 
the food to repair the \vorn-out parts of its body just as 
the adult does. Besides all this, it needs food to grow on. 
There is no other way for the child to get the stuff to make 
larger bones and muscles except from its food. Give the 
child all the food it needs and it will have a good chance 
to grow a large, strong, healthy body. If it does not get 
all of the different kinds of food it needs and enough of 
them, it cannot possibly be strong and well. Perhaps the 
growth will be stunted, and the child will not become a 
well-grown man or woman ; perhaps it will grow large, but 
will have weak spots in its body where disease germs can 
easily grow, so that it is apt to take any disease to which it 
is exposed, such as scarlet fever, diphtheria or tubercu- 
losis. The city child must be exposed to some of these dis- 
eases, but if its body is strong and clean it will have a good 
chance to escape taking them. For these reasons proper 
food is of even more importance to the child than to the 
adult. 

Foods Furnishing Energy 

The body can use all kinds of food for energy to work 
on, but the best and cheapest for this purpose are the 
ones that contain starch, sugar and fat. 



8 LOW COST COOKING 

The chief foods which contain starch are: cereals, flour 
and meals of all kinds, legumes (beans, peas and lentils) 
and some vegetables such as potatoes and sweet potatoes. 

Many vegetables and fruits such as carrots, oranges, etc., 
contain sugar, but we get most of our sugar in the pure 
form which has been taken from the juices of sugar cane 
and sugar beet. 

The chief foods which contain fat are the fat parts of 
meat, lard, suet, butter and cream, cheese, cottonseed oil, 
olive oil, and nuts. 

Foods for Building and Repairing the Body 

To repair the worn-out muscles and other tissues of the 
body, a substance called protein is necessary. It is found 
in all foods, but in largest quantities in such foods as meat, 
milk, fish, eggs and cheese. 

To build and repair the bones and to keep the body clean, 
strong and able to resist disease, many different kinds of 
minerals are needed such as lime, iron, sulphur, etc. For 
these we depend chiefly on fruits and vegetables, although 
other foods, especially milk and eggs, contain valuable 
minerals. 

Balanced Diet 

A diet which furnishes all of these things which the body 
needs in the right amount is called a "well-balanced diet." 
It must contain some high protein foods such as meat, milk, 
eggs, cheese and fish, for building and repairing; much 
starch, fat and sugar for energy, and also vegetables and 
fruits to provide the minerals needed. Too much protein 
foods will cause disturbances of the kidneys. Too much 
starch or fat will cause digestive troubles. Too much sugar 
will produce anaemia and cause disturbances of digestion. 

In general, a diet for an adult will be well-balanced if it 
contains meat or fish once a day with a little milk and an 



CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED DIET 9 

egg occasionally ; a cereal once ; another vegetable besides 
potatoes once, with fruit twice per day, or vegetable twice 
and fruit once. In addition the diet should include as much 
bread and potatoes and some kind of fat as the normal 
appetite demands. This is simple enough when there is 
plenty of money, but when it must be done on a small 
income it becomes a very hard thing to do. 

HOW TO HAVE A CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED 

DIET 

The following classes of food are the ones that give the 
body the greatest amount of energy for the money, and 
must be used in large quantities by the housekeeper who 
wishes to feed her family well for a small amount of money. 

CEREALS, which include everything made from grains, 
such as flour from which w r e make bread, macaroni, etc., as 
well as oatmeal, cornmeal, rice, rye, etc. 

LEGUMES, which include all kinds of beans and peas, also 
lentils and peanuts. 

CHEAPER FORMS OF FAT, such as suet, lard, oleo, peanut 
oil, cottonseed oil, etc. 

These alone would make a cheap diet, but a very poor 
one. To them must be added foods which furnish more 
protein than these have for building and repairing the body, 
and those that furnish the mineral elements necessary for 
keeping the body in health. 

Protein for Children 

For children milk is the best high protein food. Only 
milk from good dairies should be given children, and this 
as a rule is the same price with all of the dairies in the same 
town. In Chicago it costs 8 cents per quart. When skim 
milk can be bought at 3 cents to 4 cents per quart it enables 



I0 LOW COST COOKING 

the housekeeper to economize a little on her milk bill. When 
milk is skimmed the fat is removed, but the protein and 
minerals remain, so that it is still a very valuable food. 

AMOUNT OF MILK DESIRABLE FOR CHILDREN. 

I pint to i quart per day for each child under 2 years. 
I pint to i y 2 pints per day for each child 2 to 5 years, 
i pint at least per day for each child 5 to 9 years, 
i pint if possible per day for older children. 

Eggs are the next best protein food for children. When 
they are cheap they should be given in abundance ; when 
expensive as many as can be afforded. Meat should be 
given only in very small quantities to young children. 

Protein for Adults 

In order to buy the necessary amount of milk for the 
children, the protein foods for the grown up part of the 
family must be bought very economically. American brick 
cheese can be bought at from 19 cents to 22 cents per 
pound, and cottage cheese at 10 cents per pound, and at 
these prices are cheap protein food. Eggs are fairly cheap 
at certain times in the year, at other times far too expensive 
for general use. They are easily digested and very desir- 
able for children and invalids. 

Meat may be very expensive or quite inexpensive accord- 
ing to the way in which it is bought. There is about the 
same amount of nourishment in the cheaper cuts as in 
more expensive ones. As a rule the cheaper cuts of meat 
require longer cooking to make them tender and palatable, 
so that in some cases the cost of fuel must be reckoned. 
In winter, however, the fire that is used for cooking is also 
needed for heat, and in summer a fireless cooker will save 
almost all of the extra fuel needed for the long cooking. 

Foods Furnishing Mineral 

The body cannot long remain healthy without vegetables 
and fruits. Those who are entirely cut off from these 



ECONOMY IN BUYING II 

foods are apt to be attacked by the horrible disease, scurvy, 
found chiefly in shipwrecks and in besieged cities. This 
condition is rare, but less serious skin diseases, and constipa- 
tion, with its attending train of diseases, are very common 
among those who have not enough of this class of foods. 

This is an expensive part of the diet and can be managed 
at small cost only by watching the market closely and buy- 
ing the articles cheapest at the time. In the winter when 
there are no fruits in season and green vegetables are 
expensive, the dried fruits and winter vegetables, such as 
carrots, rutabagas and onions can be used. 

Fresh fruit should be used at all times when the price 
will permit. 

Milk is also very valuable as a source of the minerals 
needed. The growing child who has sufficient milk rarely 
suffers from rickets as there is enough lime in the amount 
of milk recommended above to provide for properly build- 
ing the bones of the growing child. 

ECONOMY IN BUYING 

These are a few of the things every woman who tries to 
get the greatest value for the money she spends for food 
should always keep in mind : 

Work of Others 

If someone else bakes your bread, cakes or pies, cooks 
your meat, cans your vegetables, makes your jelly and jam, 
pays for advertising these things and then sells them to you, 
you must pay him well for all his work by paying a high 
price for the food he has prepared for you. 

Take for instance a cereal, and we can easily see just how 
much we pay for this work. Cornmeal sells in bulk for 
2^/2 cents per pound. A business firm packs the same sort 
of ccrnmeal, puts it into a package, names it, advertises 



12 LOW COST COOKING 

it and sells it for 5 cents per pound. Another firm puts corn 
through a cooking and rolling process, makes it into corn 
flakes, puts it in a package, names it, advertises it and sells 
it for 16 cents per pound. The amount of food in the corn 
product remains about the same, but we must pay nearly 
six times as much for the cornflakes as for the cornmeal, 
in order to pay for the work done on it. The following 
table shows how much we pay for cereals by buying them 
in different ways : 

TABLE OF CEREALS WITH PRICES. 

Cornmeal (bulk) 2 l / 2 z per Ib. 

Cornmeal (package) 30 oz. for IDC, which is 5 I/3C a Ib. 

Cornflakes, 10 oz. for loc, which is i6c per Ib. 

Oatmeal (bulk) 3c to 50 a Ib. 

Oatmeal, 10-lb. sack for 39C, which is 3 Q/IOC a Ib. 

Oatmeal (package) 22 oz. for loc, which is 7c a Ib. 

Farina (bulk) 5C a Ib. 

Farina (package), 14 oz. for loc, which is n l /2C a Ib. 

Rice (broken) 3c to 5c a Ib. 

Rice (whole) 7c to I2c a Ib. 

Rice (puffed) 15 oz. for 150, which is i6c a Ib. 

Economical Forms of Fat 

The most expensive fats in common use are cream, but- 
ter and olive oil. Cheaper forms are meat fats, such as 
suet, lard, salt pork, bacon, tallow and oleomargarine ; veg- 
etable oils, such as cottonseed and peanut oil. The most 
important difference between these different kinds is the 
difference in flavor. The first three are also more easily 
digested than any of the cheaper forms except bacon. 

In families where there are children it is better to buy 
as much milk as possible instead of cream or butter, since 
we get in this way the cream and butter fat, as well as 
all the other valuable food the milk contains. 

Bacon is also a very useful fat where there are small 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 

children, as it is easily digested. A child one year old can 
take crisply fried bacon. It is one of the most expensive 
forms of fat if it is bought from the "best" brands, sliced, 
10 cents worth at a time. It is one of the most inexpensive 
if bought in the form of "bacon brisket," "bacon strips," 
"bacon butts," which are the odd-shaped trimmings from 
the sides of the bacon and are sold by the piece at from 
14 to 22 cents per pound. 

Oleomargarine is a useful and desirable substitute for 
butter. (See page 14.) Some housekeepers make a sub- 
stitute of their own, using freshly rendered leaf lard and 
suet, pleasantly flavored with onion, thyme and other savory 
herbs. 

The economical housekeeper will do well to buy leaf fat 
at 10 to 12 cents per pound and render it herself into lard. 
Cut it into small pieces and heat carefully in oven or on 
top of stove until the fat is fried out and the scraps are 
crisp but not brown. These crisp bits ("cracklings") may 
be mashed fine and used instead of drippings in making 
shortened corn bread. 

Cost of Canned Foods 

A 12-ounce can of baked beans costs 10 cents. The raw 
beans, tomatoes and fat pork which it takes to make an 
equal amount of baked beans, costs about 2^2 cents. 

A 12-ounce can of soup costs 10 cents. Home-made 
soup of similar quality can be made for about 2^/2 cents. 

Other canned vegetables and fruits are not quite so 
expensive by comparison, but a careful housekeeper can 
save much by avoiding canned goods, choosing instead the 
vegetables in season which are the cheapest. 

Cost of Dried Foods 

Drying is one of the least expensive ways of preserving 
foods; therefore dried fruits are inexpensive in winter in 



LOW COST COOKING 

comparison with fresh fruit or canned fruit, and dried 
meats and fish often less expensive than fresh. Fresh 
apples at 24 cents per peck are equal in expense to dried 
apples at 12 cents per pound, but when apples are 50 cents 
per peck the dried ones cost only one-half as much. It 
takes a peck of fresh apples to make 2 pounds of dried 
apples. Dried sweet corn is cheap and valuable for giving 
variety to the winter diet. 

Cost of Bakery and Other Cooked Foods 

The baker's loaf (12 ounces) of bread costs about twice 
as much as the flour, yeast, etc., that it takes to make a 
loaf of the same weight at home. Rolls, cakes, pies, etc., 
cost more than twice as much as the home-made of the 
same quality. 

Boiled ham and beef cost about four times as much as 
raw, and jellies and preserves are about three times as ex- 
pensive as home-made ones of the same quality. 

This is not counting the cost of fuel. The large part of 
the year when the cook stove is used also for heat, this need 
not be considered at all. When fire must be especially pro- 
vided for the baking, the saving is, of course less, but the 
careful housewife will use her fuel to the best advantage 
by baking on washing or ironing day and in other ways 
using all of the heat produced. 

Cost of Flavor 

In many foods, the only difference between the expensive 
kinds and the inexpensive ones is the difference in flavor. 
This is the chief difference between butter and oleomar- 
gerine. Oleomargerine is a mixture of the best quality of 
lard and suet churned with cream, which adds some of 
the flavor and a percentage of butter to it. It is made 
under careful United States Government supervision so that 
it must be clean and wholesome. The uncolored oleo gives 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 15 

the best value for the money, as there is a tax of 10 cents 
per pound on the colored. It may be colored at home if 
desired with the coloring matter usually furnished. Nearly 
all butter is colored. One pound of oleo costs about one- 
half as much as good butter and contains only a little less 
food than the pound of butter. 

Differences in price of meats is partly a matter of flavor. 

Foods Out of Season 

When foods out of season are bought, we must pay 
enough for them to cover the cost of keeping them in cold 
storage. For example, the apples sold in the spring have 
been kept for six months or more in cold storage, and this 
makes them very expensive. Always try to find out what 
fruits and vegetables are in season and the cheapest to be 
had at the time, and buy these, waiting for the others until 
the time for their season comes. In winter when all fresh 
fruits are out of season, dried fruits can be used. 

Buying in Quantity 

Buying each day just the amount of things which are to 
be used that day is very wasteful. Better weight is given 
to the customer who buys in large quantities, and usually 
the price is lower. Try buying 10 pounds of sugar and see 
how much longer it lasts than five 2-pound packages. When 
you buy so many small packages you are paying for a large 
amount of paper at the same price you pay for food. If the 
housekeeper gets her money once per month, she will save 
by buying all of the staples, such as sugar, flour, potatoes, 
cured meats, rice, dried beans, peas, lentils, coffee, tea, dried 
fruits, etc., that she will need for the month. If she gets 
her money once per week, she will probably not be able to 
buy in such large quantities, but she can buy enough of 
these things to last the week. 



i6 



LOW COST COOKING 



COMPOSITION OF RAW FOODS. 
Parts in 100 (Approximate). 

CEREAL PRODUCTS. 

Wheat flour 12 water u protein 75 starch I fat 

Corn meal 12 water 9 protein 75 starch 2 fat 

Oat meal 7 water 16 protein 67 starch 7 fat 

Macaroni 10 water 13 protein 74 starch i fat 

Rice 12 water 8 protein 79 starch y 2 fat 

LEGUMES. 

Beans and peas.. 13 water 24 protein 60 starch 2 fat 



Food units 
in i Ib. 
1,640 
1,650 
i, 860 
1,665 
1,630 

Food units 
in i Ib. 

1,655 



HIGH PROTEIN FOODS. 



u ts 

Beef (round). ..65 water 20 protein 13 fat 950 

Mutton (leg)... 50 water 15 protein 15 fat 890 

Fowl .......... 47 water 14 protein 15 fat 765 

Fish (salt) ..... 53 water 25 protein Vz fat 410 

Fish (fresh) ---- 82 water 16 protein l / 2 fat 350 

Eggs (nine) ---- 74 water 13 protein 10 fat 720 

Milk (i pint).. 87 water 3 protein 5 sugar 4 fat 310 

Cheese ........ 33 water 26 protein 33 fat 2,000 

Nuts .......... 3 water 20 protein 15 starch 55 fat 3,000 

FATS. 

Salt pork (fat) ........... 8 water 2 protein 86 fat 3,670 

Bacon (medium fat) ..... 17 water 9 protein 62 fat 2,795 

Butter ................... II water I protein 85 fat 3,490 

Oleo ..................... 10 water I protein 83 fat 3,410 

Lard, oils, crisco, etc ...... 100 fat 4,220 

VEGETABLES. 

Lettuce, celery, etc., 94 water, i protein, 3 starch and sugar, 

Yz f at ............................................. 85 

Carrots, string beans, parsnips, etc., 85 water, i protein, 9 

to 12 starch and sugar, l / 2 fat ....................... 210 

Turnips, cabbage, kohlrabi, etc., 90 water, i protein, 8 

starch and sugar, y 2 i at ............................. 185 

Potato, white, 78 water, 2 protein, 18 starch, l / 2 fat ...... 385 

Potato, sweet, 69 water, 2 protein, 27 starch and sugar, l / 2 

fat ................................................ 5?o 

FRESH FRUITS. 

Apples, oranges, peaches, etc., 84 water, l / 2 protein, 14 

sugar and starch .................................... 210 

Tomatoes, 95 water, i protein, 4 sugar and starch ......... 105 



TABLES OF COMPOSITION AND PROPORTIONS 



DRIED FRUITS. 

Apples, apricots, etc., 28 water, 3 protein, 64 sugar and 

starch, i l /2 fat 1,320 

Dates, 15 water, 2 protein, 78 sugar and starch, 3 fat 1,615 

Prunes, raisins, etc., 22 water, 2 protein, 73 sugar and 

starch, 2 fat 1,400 

Sugar, 100 sugar 1,820 

All of the above foods except the sugar, lard and oils contain 
from l /2 to 2 per cent mineral matter, which does not increase their 
food units but are of great value in the diet. Butter and cheese 
have 2 to 3 per cent of common salt added. 

There is also a percentage of refuse in most of food materials 
which is largest in the meats. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

FOR THICKENING 

1 level tablespoon of flour will thicken I cupful of 
liquid for soups. 

2 level tablespoons of flour will thicken I cupful of 
liquid for gravy. 

3 level tablespoons of browned-flour will thicken I 
cupful of liquid for gravy. 

Use one-half as much cornstarch as flour. 

Use two level tablespoons of cornstarch to I cup of 
liquid for pudding. 

Use one egg to one cup of milk for soft custard. 

Use two eggs to one cup of milk for stiff custard. 

Use one tablespoon of granulated gelatin to one pint 
liquid if cooled on ice. 

RISING AGENTS 

Use two level teaspoons baking powder to one cup 
flour in making muffins, biscuits, griddle cakes and cakes. 
If well-beaten eggs are used in cake leave out one-half 
teaspoon of baking powder for each egg used. 

Use one-half level teaspoon of soda with one cup of 
sour milk. 

Use one teaspoon of soda with one cup of molasses. 

FOR DOUGHS AND BATTERS 

Use one-third cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing biscuits. 

Use one-half cup of liquid for each cup of flour in 
making muffins. 

Use two-thirds cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing griddle cakes. 

FOR SALTING 

Use one teaspoonful of salt for one quart of liquid. 
Use l / 2 teaspoonful of salt for one cup of flour for 
bread, etc. 



l8 LOW COST COOKING 

SETTING THE TABLE 

If a tablecloth is used, spread it evenly on the table so 
that the edges hang down the same length at each side and 
end. It is often much better, particularly where there are 
young children, to use doilies instead of a tablecloth in 
order to save washing. The doilies may be made 12 to 18 
inches square of white or colored linen, Japanese toweling, 
or of any kind of white cloth. The coarse muslin of flour 
sacks bleached white and neatly hemmed or hemstitched 
makes very nice ones. If doilies are used, place one in the 
center of the table, one under the meat dish, and one under 
each plate. If this makes too much washing, one in the 
center only may be used, leaving the rest of the table bare. 

Place the plates an even distance apart, right side up 
and one inch from the edge of the table. 

Place knife at right, sharp edge toward the plate, fork 
at left, tines up, spoon beside knife, bowl up. The napkin 
lies neatly folded or in a ring beside the fork. Place tum- 
bler for water at right. 

Be sure that bread and butter, water, salt, pepper, sugar 
and other things needed for the meal are on the table. 
Serve hot things on hot plates and dishes and cold things as 
cold as possible. Luke warm food is nearly always distaste- 
ful. One way to heat plates is to leave them for a short 
time in hot water; another way is to put them in warm 
oven but they may crack and discolor if set in a hot oven. 

Every child should be taught while still young that be- 
fore coming to the table his hair and clothing must be 
neat and his face and hands freshly washed. Much ill 
health is caused by children being allowed to eat with dirty, 
germ-covered hands. 



GENERAL HOUSEHOLD DIRECTIONS 

The Kitchen 

The kitchen is the heart of t'ar home and the whole fam- 
ily rejoices in its wholesome cleanliness. Dirt may be 
tolerated better in any other part of the house than in 
the kitchen, which is the worksnop for preparing food. No 
room is more attractive than a kitchen which is shiningly 
clean and contains only the things necessary for the work 
done there, and these arranged in a convenient and orderly 

way. 

Kitchen Utensils 

Keep the cooking utensils where you can get at them 
easily. Hang them on hooks or place on shelves near where 
they are used. A narrow shelf near the stove, with tea and 
coffee pots and supply cans, salt, pepper, kettle, cooking 
spoon and fork, will save many steps. Hang dishpan, drain- 
er and towels, also vegetable knife, can opener, saucepans, 
near the sink. Near the kitchen table have all the prepar- 
ing dishes and tools. Keep each thing always in the same 
place so as not to waste time hunting for it when needed. 

The Pantry 

The pantry should be the cleanest, sweetest smelling part 
of the house. If there is the slightest musty or disagree- 
able odor, the source of it should be found and removed. 
Stale odors in the pantry are often caused by foods being 
shut in there while still warm. Leave left-over food ex- 
posed to the open air until it is cold, when it should be 
covered closely and put away in the coolest possible place. 

A shiningly clean pantry well stocked with food sup- 
plies is the pride of every good housekeeper. 

19 



20 LOW COST COOKING 

No food should ever be left standing in paper sacks. 
Roaches and ants as well as dust and dirt can get into the 
sacks and make the food unclean. Glass jars with tight 
lids are best for sugar, rice, coffee, etc., but tin cans and 
boxes or crockery jars with tight lids are good. A strip of 
paper with the name of the article on it should be pasted 
on the outside of the vessel. Tin or crockery is best for 

flour and bread. 

Personal Care 

Before beginning to cook, make sure that hands and 
nails are perfectly clean and the hair neatly dressed. Wear 
a wash dress or a big wash apron over the dress. 

Measurements 

All measurements used in these recipes are LEVEL. 
Unless this is kept in mind, the recipes will all turn out 
wrong. 

To get a level tablespoon of flour fill the spoon and 
scrape off the top with the edge of a knife, leaving it ex- 
actly level full. It takes 2 tablespoons measured in this 
way to equal one rounded tablespoonful. 

For a cup of flour sift the flour, lift it into the cup with 
a tablespoon and scrape it off the top of the cup with a 
knife, leaving it just level full. A measuring cup should 
always be used. The tin ones cost 5 cents. 

It takes 3 teaspoons to make one tablespoon; 16 table- 
spoons equal one cup ; 2 cups equal one pint. 



GENERAL RECIPES 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 

Cereal grains such as wheat, corn, rye and oats are of- 
fered for sale in various forms to be used as food. The 
coarser ground forms are used for mushes, soups and 
gruels and the finely ground flours for bread, cake and 
pastry. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour iY 2 tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 compressed yeast cakes 

2 tablespoons sugar stirred into l / 2 cup of 
2 tablespoons lard or other fat lukewarm water 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the yeast and about 
5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining flour 
and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and knead 
until it is smooth and elastic, Place in a well-greased pan, 
greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean cloth. 
Place where it will keep at a warm, even temperature. 
When the dough has raised to double its size, which will be 
in about \y 2 hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the com- 
mon bakers' loaf, which weighs 12 ounces. This recipe will 
make eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 

21 



22 LOW COST COOKING 

or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooling. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

A good loaf of bread is light, evenly raised, has a crisp 
golden-brown crust and a fine-grained tender crumb. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour i tablespoon lard or other fat 

Yz CU P sugar or molasses i tablespoon salt 

i compressed yeast cake stirred into J4 cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread; if caraway seeds are desired add I 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Graham or Whole Wheat Bread 

3 cups white flour i tablespoon lard 

3 cups graham or whole i tablespoon salt 

wheat flour i yeast cake stirred into J4 

Yz cup sugar or molasses cup lukewarm water 

Follow directions for mixing, kneading and baking given 
for white bread. 

Bran Bread 

3 cups white flour Yz cup molasses 

3 cups bran i teaspoonful baking soda 

I teaspoonful salt 2 cups sour milk or buttermilk 

Mix all together, put into greased bread pan, and bake 
iy 2 hours in a slow oven. This is very useful in cases of 
constipation. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

At second kneading, roll bread dough to y 2 inch thick- 
ness, spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon. Roll into a long roll, cut into I inch slices, grease 
these on the outside, place in baking pan. When they have 
risen to twice their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 

At the second kneading, roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of y 2 inch and spread with a l /4 inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 
inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold each strip of dough 
so that there will be a layer of prunes between two layers 
of dough. Grease the outside of each roll, place in a 
greased pan, allow them to rise to twice their size, bake. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 

Coffee Cake 

I cup hot milk H cup sugar 

l /2 cup lard I teaspoon salt 

J/2 compressed yeast cake stirred into J4 CU P lukewarm water 

Add hot milk to lard and salt, when lukewarm add yeast, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter about three cups cover 
dish and let the batter rise. Spread in a well greased pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise; bake. If raisins are 
desired add j cup just before putting into baking pan. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

Mix as for coffee cake. Just before baking press into 
the dough three sour apples, pared and cut into eighths. 
Sprinkle the apples generously with sugar, and cinnamon 
if desired. 

Hot Breads 

Hot Breads are wholesome if light and baked until thor- 
oughly done. The inside of a muffin or biscuit should 
be dry and firm, not soft or soggy. 

Use of Sour Milk in Baking 

In any baking recipe where sweet milk with baking pow- 
der is used sour milk and soda may be used instead. Use 
YZ teaspoon baking soda for each cup of sour milk. This 
will usually not make the product light enough and there 
should be J/ teaspoon baking powder added to each cup of 
flour used. 

White Flour Muffins 

3 cups flour i teaspoon salt 

i l /2 cups liquid, half water 6 teaspoons baking powder 

and half milk 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

2 tablespoons sugar pings, suet, or lard 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
well, put quickly into a well greased muffin pan, bake about 
25 minutes in moderately hot oven. An egg may be added 
to the recipe. 

Graham, Whole Wheat or Rye Muffins 
Use recipe above, using i l / 2 cups graham, whole wheat 
or rye flour and i^ cups white flour. 

Berry Muffins 

Use recipe for WHITE FLOUR MUFFINS and add iy 2 cups 
of berries huckleberries, raspberries, blackberries or blue- 



24 LOW COST COOKING 

berries just before putting into baking pans. If desired to 
make them more like cake, increase the amount of sugar 
to i cup, the drippings to y 2 cup, and add I or 2 eggs. 

Oat Meal Muffins 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

i l /2 cups cooked oatmeal I cup liquid 

2 tablespoons sugar I tablespoon fat 

5 teaspoons baking powder I egg may be used 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly, put quickly into well-greased muffin pans, bake 
about 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Rice Muffins 

Mix same as above, adding hot cooked rice instead of 
oatmeal. 

Bran Muffins 

1 cup flour 2 cups milk or water 

2 cups bran 6 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons molasses i l / 2 teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons drippings l /4 teaspoon baking soda 

Mix dry ingredients, add liquids and beat. Bake as other 
muffins. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

3 cups flour i Yz teaspoons salt 

i cup liquid 3 tablespoons fat (lard, crisco, 

6 teaspoons baking powder etc.) 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mixing it with 
flour by cutting with two knives or rub it in lightly with 
finger tips. Add liquid gradually, mixing with a knife. 
Turn onto a floured board, roll or pat to half inch thick- 
ness, cut into rounds with biscuit cutter and place in baking 
pan. It does not hurt biscuits to stand for a while after 
being ready for the oven, if the top is brushed over with 
melted fat in order to prevent a hard crust from forming. 

Drop Biscuits 

2^2 cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup liquid I teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons melted fat 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients and 
melted fat and mix with a knife. Drop by tablespoonfuls 
in a baking pan, bake in a hot oven. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 

Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2 cups flour M cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder y^ cup oleo 

l /2 teaspoon salt K cup sugar 

2 tablespoons fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work in the fat with the tips of the fingers, add the milk or 
water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet y 2 
inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing bowl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into J/ inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Plain Griddle Cakes 

3 cups flour 3 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups liquid 6 teaspoons baking powder 

l l /2 teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquids, beat and begin 
to cook at once by dropping on hot greased frying pan, I 
tablespoonful in a place. Make as many cakes in the grid- 
dle as it will hold without their touching one another. The 
most important point about cooking the cakes is to avoid 
turning them too soon. Do not turn until the cake is cooked 
through, except for a thin upper layer. When this is done, 
the gas bubbles will burst over the top of the cake, show- 
ing cooked substance below. Keep the fire low enough to 
avoid burning before it is cooked through. Turn and 
brown on the other side. As the cakes are done, place them 
on a plate on top of a kettle of boiling water to keep warm. 
Griddle cakes are hard to digest unless very carefully 
cooked. Follow directions closely to prevent them from 
being hard, tough and indigestible or soggy and raw. 

Graham or Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

These are made in the same way by using half white flour 
and half graham flour or cornmeal. 

Stale Bread Griddle Cakes 



cups flour i egg 

4 cups stale bread crumbs ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 5 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups hot water 3 tablespoons drippings 



26 LOW COST COOKING 

Pour water and milk over breadcrumbs and soak until 
crumbs are soft. Add egg, sift in the flour mixed with salt 
and baking powder, bake as other griddle cakes. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

i l / 2 cups flour l /4 teaspoon salt 

i l / 2 cups cooked rice 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup milk or water 5 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix liquid ingredients and add rice. Add flour mixed 
and sifted with salt and baking powder. Bake as other 
griddle cakes. 

Corn Bread 

2 cups cornmeal i l /2 teaspoon salt 

i cup flour 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

i l /2 cups sour milk pings 

% teaspoon baking soda Y^ cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly and quickly turn into hot well-greased flat pan. 
Bake about 30 minutes. Cut into squares and serve hot. 

Shortened Corn Bread 

3 cups cornmeal (white pre- i cup sour milk 
ferred) ^2 teaspoon soda 

4 tablespoons cold drippings 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mix the same as for 
biscuits, add milk, form into large pones about 6 inches long 
and three inches wide and J^ inch thick. The dough should 
be stiff enough for the pone to hold its shape. Place in 
buttered pan, bake 30 minutes, serve hot. "Cracklings" 
may be used instead of drippings. 

Corn Pone 

3 cups white cornmeal i l /2 teaspoons salt 

i cup boiling water 

Mix ingredients, form into pone, same as shortened corn- 
bread, bake in greased pan about y 2 hour. Split open and 
serve with slices of crisp bacon inside. 

For Southern Corn Bread see page 71. 

One mother of five children says : "Cornbread is very 
cheap, but when served piping hot with syrup I never 
can get one big enough." 

TOAST 

Toast may be most easily made in winter when fire is 
going all the time by laying the slices of bread in the oven 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 27 

until they are browned. Toast made in this way is dry all 
the way through, as well as being brown on the outside and 
is more easily digested than soft toast. When the gas 
stove is being used and has a broiler, place the toast on 
it, brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. If there 
is only a gas burner to use it may be covered by a clean 
asbestos mat and the bread laid on this. An asbestos mat 
costs 5 cents. A wire toaster which will toast 4 pieces at 
once, can be bought for 19 cents. 

Toasted Rolls or Baking Powder Biscuits 

These are made by splitting the biscuits or rolls open 
and laying them in oven or on the toaster until the exposed 
crumb is brown. 

French Toast 

Make a mixture of half milk, half water, J^ cup of each, 
add an egg and dip slices of stale bread in this mixture. 
Lay them in a hot greased frying pan and brown on both 
sides. It may be served with syrup. 

Cream Toast 

Cream toast with or without cheese is made by pouring 
thin white sauce over toasted bread. Cheese may be added 
after the hot sauce is removed from the fire. Fuller direc- 
tions are found on page 96. It is seasoned with salt and 
pepper if cheese is added, otherwise with sugar or with 
salt and pepper alone if desired. A dash of nutmeg may 
be added. 

Milk Toast 

Toast bread in oven, cover with hot milk, serve with salt 
and pepper. 

COOKING BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Cereals are made from hard grains and contain much 
starch, so require long cooking to make them easily di- 
gested. Do not be deceived by directions on the box which 
say that the contents can be cooked in 15 or 20 minutes. 
This is never long enough to cook thoroughly and make 
them fit food for young children. 

Use a double boiler or a fireless cooker if possible. Sift 
the dry cereal slowly into salted boiling water, stirring 
all the while to prevent lumping. Some cereals like graham 
flour which lump badly should be mixed first with cold 



28 LOW COST COOKING 

water, then poured into the boiling water. Cook 5 minutes 
directly over the fire, then place upper part of double 
boiler over the lower part, cover closely and steam for the 
time required. If there is no double boiler, set the vessel 
containing the cereal in a kettle containing boiling water. 
When the coal range is used, a very convenient way to 
cook the cereal is to start it cooking at supper time and 
leave closely covered on the back of the range all night. In 
the morning it will be found to be well done. Better still, 
leave it in the fireless cooker over night. 

Proportions and Time for Cooking Cereals 

i cup Oatmeal 4 cups water 4 hours 

i cup Rolled Oats... 2^ cups water i to 2 hours 

i cup Farina 4 cups water y? to i hour 

I cup Cracked Wheat. .6 cups water 6 hours or longer 

I cup Graham Flour... 3 cups water y 2 to i hour 

I cup Cornmeal 4 cups water 3 hours 

I cup Hominy 4 cups water 4 hours 

I cup Rice 3 cups water 30 minutes* 

i cup Rice 3 cups water 50 minutest 

* For boiling. t For steaming. 

Cereal Mush 

All of the cereals named above may be served hot as 
mush with cream or milk with or without sugar. Mush 
may also be served with syrup instead of milk. Cornmeal 
mush is much liked in this way. 

If it is difficult to teach a child to eat cereal, adding fruit 
to make it more attractive will often help. 

Oatmeal with Raisins 

i cup oatmeal J4 pound black seedless 

4 cups water raisins 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook oatmeal as directed. Stew raisins according to 
directions given under Dried Fruit (page 53) and add 
enough sugar to make them quite sweet. Serve poured 
over the mush. Dates or figs may be used in the same way 
and with all of the other cereals. 

Farina with Dates 

i cup farina J4 pound dates 

4 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook farina as directed; 15 minutes before serving add 
the dates, washed and stoned. Seedless raisins and figs 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 29 

may be used in this way and with all of the different cereals 
as well as with farina. 

Fried Corn Meal Mush or Hominy 
Pour cornmeal or hominy mush into a deep pan. When 
cold cut in slices and fry until brown in drippings, lard or 
suet. 

Another method is to use the mush while still hot, drop- 
ping it into the hot fat, frying it in the form of pancake. 

CEREAL DISHES FOR LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Oatmeal and Potatoes 

54 cup oatmeal 6 cups boiling water 

I onion Sprig of parsley 

1 Ib potatoes (3 or 4) 

Add oatmeal to boiling salted water and cook \y 2 hours. 
Add potatoes cut in cubes and boil J/ hour longer. Fry 
onion until brown in drippings, lard or suet, and add this 
to the mixture along with the chopped parsley or any other 
seasoning desired. Left over oatmeal mush may be used 
for this excellent dish. 

Oatmeal Soup 

2 cups cooked oatmeal 2 cups water 
i onion 2 cups milk 

Brown onion chopped fine in drippings, suet or lard, add 
to the other ingredients, heat to boiling point and serve. 

Rice with Lentils 

I cup rice i onion 

y 2 cup lentils 1^2 teaspoons salt 

Parsley, celery, etc., as desired. Cook lentils, following 
directions on page 39 ; y 2 hour before serving add rice. Fry 
the onion chopped fine and green flavoring materials (pars- 
ley, celery, etc.) in drippings or lard, add to the rice and 
lentils and serve. 

Rice with Navy Beans 

Follow directions for rice with lentils, using beans in- 
stead of lentils. 

Lima Beans and Barley 
i cup dried lima beans i onion 

5/2 cup barley i bunch soup greens 

Salt to taste 

Cook beans 2 hours, add barley and cook i hour longer. 
Fry onion and greens in drippings, add to mixture and serve. 



LOW COST COOKING 

Polenta 

i l /2 cup cornmeal 3 tablespoons salad oil 

2 cups cooked tomatoes 3 tablespoons cheese 

Salt, pepper and small onion for flavoring 

Follow directions for cooking cornmeal mush. Cook to- 
matoes, onion and oil I hour or more until the mixture is 
quite thick. Place layer of hot cornmeal mush in dish, then 
layer of tomato mixture, more cornmeal mush and tomato 
on top. Sprinkle grated cheese over the top of dish. 

Plain Boiled Rice 

Rice must be cooked differently from other cereals, as 
there is danger of overcooking and rendering the product 
soggy. Rice cooked by either boiling or steaming should 
have each grain standing out separate and whole and at the 
same time be perfectly tender. 

Wash i cup rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is quite clean. 
Have ready 2 quarts of rapidly boiling w r ater, to which has 
been added 4 teaspoons of salt. Add the rice slowly and 
boil rapidly 20 minutes. Drain off the water, saving it for 
soup, and set the pan back on a low fire to dry out all the 
rest of the moisture. 

Steamed Rice 

Use 3 cups of boiling salted water to one cup of rice. 
Follow directions for boiled rice, allowing the rice to boil 
for 5 minutes directly over the fire. Cover closely, set pan 
in larger vessel with hot water and steam 50 minutes. 

Rice with Stewed Fruit 

Serve either boiled or steamed rice with fresh fruit, such 
as black plums, stewed with plenty of water and poured 
over. 

Rice with Cinnamon 

Serve either boiled or steamed rice with sugar and cin- 
namon sprinkled over the top of the dish. Serve with or 
without milk. 

Rice with Cheese 

4 cups cooked rice 54 pound cheese 

4 cups thin white sauce or milk 

Mix white sauce with the rice. Put alternate layers of 
this mixture and grated cheese in baking dish. Cover with 



MEATS 

breadcrumbs and bake in moderate oven until hot through 
and crumbs are brown. 

Rice with Tomato Savory Rice 

Follow directions for rice with cheese, using strained 
tomato instead of white sauce. It may be made with or 
without cheese, and onion or green peppers chopped fine 
may be added if desired. It may also be served hot with- 
out baking. 

MEATS 

Meat is the most difficult part of the diet to manage where 
strict economy must be observed. The cheaper cuts of 
meat, fortunately, contain even more nutriment than the 
expensive ones, but are cheaper because they are not so 
tender. The price per pound, however, does not always 
show which cut of meat is cheaper. The housekeeper must 
consider carefully the amount of bone and fat that is given 
with certain cuts in deciding on the kind to buy ; for example, 
spare ribs at 12 cents a pound cost more than round steak 
at 20 cents a pound because of the large proportion of bone 
they contain. 

The fact to keep in mind is that one pound of lean meat 
is about equal to another pound of lean, no matter which 
part of the beef it is cut from and no matter what the dif- 
ference in price may be ; therefore the housekeeper should 
choose the piece which gives the most lean meat for the 
money. Flank steak and lower round are good examples 
of cheap beef, as they are almost all lean with very little 
waste and sell for 12 to 16 cents per pound. The fat is 
valuable, but suet can be bought at 5 cents per pound and 
leaf fat at 10 cents, which will be cheaper than paying for 
it with the meat. Always ask the butcher for the trimmings 
from your own piece of meat. You will find some usable 
pieces. 

The tougher, cheaper meats, unless chopped fine, must 
be cooked by a long, slow process to make them tender 



LOW COST COOKING 

and palatable. A fireless cooker is excellent for this 
purpose. 

PRINCIPLE OF COOKING MEATS. Whatever process of 
cooking is used, the following facts should be kept in mind : 
a high degree of heat (that is, the boiling point in water or 
a very hot oven or griddle) hardens and toughens the meat, 
and it should be used only on the outside of the meat where 
it is good to form a crust in order that the inside may be 
kept tender and juicy ; long cooking at a low temperature 
softens the hard tissues and makes tough meat tender and 
digestible. Pork and mutton must be cooked well done, 
while beef may be safely eaten rare. 

Stews 

Of the long, slow processes, stewing is one of the best 
methods. In choosing meat for a stew, whether it is beef, 
lamb, mutton, or veal, take a piece containing some bone, as 
this adds to the flavor. As it is to be cooked a long time, 
the tougher parts of the animal such as the neck and leg, 
below the round of beef or mutton, and shoulder of veal 
or lamb may be used. Remove most of the fat before 
cooking, as a greasy stew is too difficult to digest for chil- 
dren and for persons with delicate digestion. 

If the flavor of browned meat is desired, brown the 
pieces in a hot, dry kettle. Add cold water and bring 
slowly to the simmering point. If the meat is not to be 
browned cover at once with boiling water. In all cases 
keep the fire very low so that the stew will not boil, as the 
high heat will toughen the meat. 

Stews may be flavored with all kinds of highly flavored 
vegetables, which should be added just in time to cook 
tender before the meat is done. If the stew is to be the 
main part of the meal, it can be made more nourishing by 
adding barley, rice, macaroni, dumplings, and other cereals 
or flour mixtures. 



MEATS 



33 



Brown Stew with Dumplings 

1^2 pounds stew beef 3 sprigs of parsley 

1 onion 

Sear the beef in a hot, dry kettle until the pieces are all 
well browned on the outside, cover with cold water and 
cook slowly until tender. Do not allow it to boil. Add 
onion and parsley after first hour. 

Dumplings 

2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 
5-1 cup liquid I teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon fat 

Mix the dough for dumplings exactly as baking powder 
biscuits, and drop by tablespoonfuls over the top of the 
stew. Cover closely and cook 20 minutes without lifting 
the cover. If dumplings are removed before being thor- 
oughly done they fall and are hard and indigestible. 

A 15-cent knuckle of veal may be used with dumplings 
where much meat is not needed. 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

i l /2 to 2 pounds lamb or mutton I pint carrots 

Follow directions above for stew. When done thicken 
gravy with two tablespoons flour. Serve on large dish 
with a border of boiled rice. 

For stew with vegetables, see page 73. 

Scotch Broth 

2 pounds mutton, from neck, 2 tablespoons each of car- 
shoulder or shank rots, celery and parsnip 

2 tablespoons minced onions 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons minced turnip 3 quarts of cold water 

Remove fat, cut into small pieces, add seasoning, except 
parsley, bring to a boil and then continue cooking just below 
boiling point for three hours. Add */> cup fine barley after 
the first hour, and parsley y 2 hour before it is done. 

Braising 

Braising is another important method for long cooking, 
which is used in making pot roast, beef a la mode, braised 
beef, etc. The meat is first browned on the outside, then 
cooked slowly until tender in small amount of water, either 
on top of stove or in the oven. 



34 



LOW COST COOKING 



Beef a la Mode 

i l / 2 to 2 pounds flat piece of beef, such as flank steak or 

shoulder steak 
i tablesp'n carrots, chopped fine. I tablesp'n onions, chopped fine 

Dressing 

I cup bread crumbs, moistened with cold water 
i teaspoon onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients for dressing, spread over the meat, roll, 
then wrap and tie with twine. Cut slashes in the outside of 
the meat and press into the openings thin pieces of fat salt 
pork. Sear the meat in a hot kettle, add enough water to 
half cover it. Add onion and carrots and cook slowly until 

tender - m Braised Cutlets 

Cut any inexpensive meats such as chuck steak, round 
steak, flank steak, heart, etc., in pieces for serving. Brown 
the pieces in a hot pan, place them in a baking dish, cover 
with gravy made from the browning, add a small onion, 
chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. Cover the dish 
closely and bake until meat is tender. 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 pounds meat (pork shoulder, brisket, etc.) 
2 cups each carrots, turnips, parsnip, rutabaga 

Brown meat on all sides in the hot kettle with a bit of 
meat fat. Half cover with water, cook slowly for three or 
four hours, last half hour adding the vegetables, pared and 
cut in pieces. ^ Chopped Meats 

To lessen time of cooking, meats may be chopped fine. 
The chopped meat offered by the butcher is sometimes not 
quite fresh, as stale scraps are added, and it is better for 
the housekeeper to choose the pieces of meat and have them 
ground. Meat Ballg and Onions 

1/4 pounds chopped meat I teaspoon salt 

i onion, chopped fine *4 teaspoon pepper 

Mix onions, salt and pepper thoroughly with meat, form 
into cakes, brown both sides in hot pan. Cover closely 
and continue cooking at a low temperature until done 
through. Serve with brown gravy made from the drippings. 

Meat Loaf 

i pound chopped meat i or 2 eggs 

4 cups breadcrumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

Pepper and chopped onion to taste 



MEATS 35 

Meat loaf may be made without egg as described on 
page 85. If it is to be sliced cold the above recipe is better, 
as it will keep its shape better. 

Mix ingredients together. If too dry add water or milk 
to moisten bread. Form into loaf and bake in moderate 
oven for iy 2 to 2 hours. 

Chopped beef and pork mixed, veal and pork, beef or 
veal alone, or Hamburger steak may be used. Rice or cold 
potatoes may be used instead of bread crumbs, and tomatoes 
may be used for flavoring. 

Pan Broiling 

This is a useful way to cook meat quickly, which may 
be used for all kinds of steaks and chops. Directions must 
be closely followed to preserve the tenderness of the meat 
and to prevent it from becoming dry and hard. 

Pan Broiled Flank Steak 

Do not allow the butcher to score or slash the flank steak 
for broiling, as this allows the good juices to escape. 

Have the pan very hot, grease it slightly to prevent 
sticking, lay the steak in whole, even if it reaches over the 
edges of the pan. It will shrink in cooking. After brown- 
ing on one side, turn and brown the other. Salt and pepper 
may be sprinkled on each side after it is browned. As soon 
as browned, cover the pan closely and continue to cook on a 
very low fire until done. It will take 10 to 20 minutes, ac- 
cording to thickness, to cook it well done and from 5 to 10 
minutes to cook it rare. 

In serving cut across the fibre of the meat. 

All kinds of chops and steaks are pan-broiled in this way. 

Made Meat Dishes 

It is sometimes necessary to use very little meat, either 
for economy or because the health of the family is better 
with less. A small amount of meat may be made to serve 
the family by combining with other foods. 

Scalloped Meats 

2 cups chopped cooked meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

3 cups thin white sauce or brown gravy 

Left over meats may very well be used for this dish and 
different kinds may be used together if they are at hand. 



36 LOW COST COOKING 

Mix rice or bread crumbs with white sauce or brown gravy. 
Place alternate layers of this mixture and the chopped 
meat in baking dish. Cover with bread crumbs, bake in 
moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

Meat Croquettes 

2 cups chopped meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

2 cups thick white sauce or brown gravy 

Leftover meats and gravy may be used for this dish. 
Make white sauce by recipe on page 42. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly together. Form into round or oblong balls, bake 
in oven until brown on outside, or brown on both sides in 
hot greased pan. Serve as meat balls. 

Turkish Pilaf 

3 cups rice i l / 2 cups water 

i l / 2 cups tomatoes 2 cups cooked meat, chopped 

i onion 

Mix rice with tomatoes and onion chopped fine and water, 
place alternate layers of this mixture and of chopped meat 
in baking dish, cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
brown in a moderate oven. 

Meat Scalloped with Rice and Onions 
Partly fill baking dish with alternate layers of cooked 
rice and thinly sliced onions. Add a layer cooked left-over 
meat chopped fine or three-fourths pound raw chopped 
meat. Add hot water to moisten dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and bake three-fourths hour in moderate oven. 

Hominy with Bacon 

Fry 4 slices of bacon until crisp. Cut into small pieces, 
add 4 cups cooked hominy and reheat. Scraps of any kind 
of leftover meat may be used instead of bacon and any of 
the other cereals may be used instead of hominy. 

Meat Pie 

Use leftover stew or any remains of meat at hand. Put 
the meat in a baking dish, add sufficient gravy to cover 
well, adding parsley, celery, etc., as desired for seasoning. 
Cover the top with a half-inch layer of dough made as for 
baking powder biscuits, bake in hot oven until dough is 
done. ^ Tripe 

i l A pounds tripe 2 cups white sauce 

Cut tripe in small pieces, cover with hot water and cook 
15 minutes. Drain, add white sauce, stew 20 minutes. 



MEATS 



37 



Brains 

Soak over night in salt water, remove outer skins, roll 
in flour or bread crumbs. Brown both sides in hot greased 
pan, cover closely and cook on low fire about 20 minutes 
until well done. 

To scramble, break in small pieces, add I or 2 eggs and 
cook in hot greased pan, stirring constantly. 

Stuffed Heart 

Remove veins and cords of calves or beef heart, soak and 
clean. Stuff with dressing and braize as described for Beef 
a la Mode, page 34. 

Hamburger Steak with Tomatoes 

l% pounds chopped meat Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan, stirring constantly. When 
part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, cover closely and 
continue cooking on low fire until done. 

FISH 

Fish is one of the high protein foods and may be used 
at any meal instead of meat. The cheaper kinds are more 
economical than meat. In buying fish be sure it is fresh. 
In fresh fish the eyes are bright, the gills red, the flesh firm 
and odorless. Be sure it is well cleaned before cooking. 

Panned Fish 

Clean the fish, ruj> with salt and dry with a little flour. 
Lay in very hot frying pan greased with salt pork drippings. 
Brown quickly on both sides, cover closely and cook on 
low fire 10 to 20 minutes until cooked through. If the fish 
is large cut into pieces ; if small, cook whole. 

Baked Fish 

Bake and clean large fish leaving on the head ; stuff with 
dressing; lay in pan and bake in a moderate oven. When 
thoroughly done place whole on a hot dish. 

Dressing for Fish 

Put I tablespoon drippings in a sauce pan ; stir in 2 cups 
of bread crumbs, I teaspoon chopped onion, i teaspoon 
parsley, I tablespoon chopped suet. Moisten with ^ cup of 
milk or water. 



38 LOW COST COOKING 

THE COOKING OF EGGS 

The same principle that applies to the cooking of meats 
applies also to eggs, as the protein found in each is made 
tough and indigestible by a high degree of heat. Even if 
the eggs are cooked hard they should never be tough. 

Hard Cooked Eggs 

Place the eggs in a stew pan and cover with boiling 
water. Do not allow the water to boil after the eggs are in, 
but keep it hot for fifty minutes. Cooked in this way the 
whites of the eggs will be solid but tender, and the yolks 
solid and mealy. 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

If the eggs are to be cooked in the shell, they may be 
put into cold water and the water brought slowly to the 
boiling point. By this time the white will be solid and the 
egg hot all the way through. Or they may be dropped into 
boiling water, the pan set on the back of the stove and 
allowed to stand from 7 to 10 minutes. 

Poached Eggs 

Bring to the boiling point enough water to cover the 
eggs. Break each egg separately in a cup, slip it quickly 
into the hot water, let it stand, keeping the water hot but 
not allowing it to boil until the white is firm. This will take 
about seven minutes. 

Scrambled Eggs 

When eggs are expensive, a smaller number may be used 
for a meal if they are cooked with other foods. In scram- 
bling milk and flour may be added to enlarge the bulk. 
Follow the recipe given on page 84. 

Eggs Scrambled with Potatoes 

4 cups cold boiled potatoes 2 to 4 eggs 

Cut the potatoes in thin slices or in ^-inch cubes, add 
the beaten egg, cook in a warm greased frying pan over a 
low fire, stirring constantly until the eggs are cooked and 
the potatoes warmed through. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomatoes 

T /2 can tomatoes 2 to 4 eggs 

Add the beaten eggs to the tomatoes, heat, stirring the 
mixture until the eggs are cooked. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. 



LEGUMES 

Legumes are a very useful class of food, as they contain 
a large amount of nutriment and may be used to replace 
part of the meat in the diet. Little or no meat should be 
served at the same time. One pound of any of those in 
the table following contains as much food as the average 
pound of flank of beef or fresh ham, and more than twice 
as much as cuts which contain much bone, such as spare 
ribs and leg of veal. 

TABLES OF COMMON LEGUMES 

Price Time for cooking 
per pound after soaking 

Split yellow peas 5 cts. 2^ hours 

Split green peas 6 cts. 2^ hours 

Whole green peas 7 cts. 4 hours 

Black-eyed peas 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lentils 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lima beans 8 cts. 3 hours 

Kidney beans 8 cts. 3^2 hours 

Navy beans 5 cts. 3 hours 

The following directions may be used for cooking all of 
them. Wash carefully. Soak several hours or over night ; 
start to cook well covered with cold water and cook until 
tender. Add one teaspoonful of salt to each cup. They 
may then be made into a large number of attractive dishes, 
which may be divided into the following types : 

TYPE I. Tomatoes, cheese, etc., may be added for sea- 
soning as in the following dishes : 

Boiled Beans with Tomatoes 

Follow directions for cooking beans given above. When 
almost tender add canned tomatoes and seasoning and cook 
one-half hour longer. Use onion, pepper, salt, etc., for 
seasoning. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, lentils, black eyed peas may 
also be used in this way. 

Beans with Cheese and Green Peppers 

y* pound kidney beans i green pepper y 2 pound cheese 
Add pepper and salt to taste 

39 



LOW COST COOKING 

Soak beans over night. In the morning cook slowly one 
hour. Chop peppers and cook with the beans until tender. 
Just before taking from the fire add cut-up cheese. Serve 
hot on toast. 

TYPE II. The flavor may be secured by adding a piece 
of meat such as salt pork, end of salt shoulder or ham. 

Black Eyed Peas with Ham Butts 

2 cups black-eyed peas i l /2 pound salt ham butt 
Wash and soak the peas over night. Remove the rind 

from the ham butt. Cover with cold water, cook slowly 
for 2 hours, add peas, and continue cooking until peas and 
meat are tender. 

Navy beans, lima beans, split peas and lentils may be 
cooked in the same way. 

TYPE III. They may be baked with various kinds of 
seasoning added. 

Baked Peas with Bacon 

Use dried peas, either split or whole. When cooked 
tender evaporate most of the water and turn into the baking 
dish. Place strips of thin cut salt pork or bacon on top. 
Bake in a moderate oven until bacon is crisp and brown. 
Beans, lima beans, and lentils may be baked in the same way. 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 cups beans 2 tablespoons sugar 

% pound salt pork i tablespoon molasses 

2 teaspoons salt 

Soak beans over night, cover with cold water; cook 
slowly one-half hour and drain off the water. Scald a piece 
of salt pork, place one thin slice of pork in the bottom of 
the baking dish ; put in the beans and bury the piece of 
pork in them, leaving the edges exposed. Mix molasses, 
sugar and salt, add boiling water and pour over the beans. 
Add enough boiling water to cover the beans and bake 6 to 
8 hours ; uncover the last hour to allow the beans and pork 
to brown. A five-pound lard pail makes a good baking 
dish for beans. 

TYPE IV. They may be baked in a loaf, as the following : 

Lentil Loaf 

4 cups lentils (cooked) 54 lb. salt pork or bacon 

3 cups breadcrumbs or 2 cups Flavorings Onions, para- 

cooked rice ley, etc., as desired 

Cook lentils, following directions above. Mash fine, add 



LEGUMES 

rice or bread crumbs and flavorings chopped fine. Form 
into a loaf resembling meat loaf, place in baking pan, lay 
pork or bacon, sliced thin, over the top, and bake in mod- 
erate oven until meat is crisp and brown. 

LIMA BEAN LOAF, NAVY BEAN LOAF, KIDNEY BEAN 
LOAF, all may be prepared in the same way, or the loaf 
may be made from leftovers of different kinds, mixed. 

TYPE V. They may be creamed by adding white sauce. 

Creamed Kidney Beans 

Cook kidney beans according to directions given. For 
each cup of beans add one cup of white sauce made by 
recipe on page 70, or by directions given there for creamed 
carrots. 

LIMA BEANS also are especially good creamed. 

Vegetable Stews 

Stews may be made with vegetables without meat, or 
with only a small amount used for flavoring. If one of the 
legumes is used for the basis of the stew, it will, with bread 
and milk, form a good lunch or supper. 

Lentil Stew 

1 cup lentils 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups diced potatoes 3 slices bacon or salt pork 
Wash lentils and soak over night ; boil 3 hours, add pota- 
toes and boil for 20 minutes. Fry bacon, remove from pan, 
and stir flour in the fat. Add i cup water and boil until 
thick. Add this gravy and the bacon cut into small pieces 
to the stew. 

Beans, lima beans, kidney beans, or black-eyed peas may 
be used instead of lentils. 

Jungle Stew 

i l / 2 cup kidney beans i onion 

l / 2 cup macaroni or rice 4 tablespoons drippings 

l /2 can tomatoes seasoning to taste 

Wash and soak beans over night, boil 3 hours. Brown 
sliced onions in frying pan, with drippings, add to stew with 
tomatoes, seasoning and the macaroni broken into bits. Sim- 
mer a half hour. 

Navy beans, lentils or lima beans may be used instead 
of the kidney beans. 

Split Peas with Carrots 

3 cups carrots (cooked) 3 cups green split peas (cooked) 

Salt and pepper to taste 



LOW COST COOKING 

Cut the carrots in y 2 -'mch cubes, mash the peas fine and 
add enough water to make them like a very thick soup. 
Minced onions or parsley may be added if additional sea- 
soning is desired. Put the things all together and reheat. 

Succotash 

Succotash is green corn, fresh or canned, combined with 
beans, green or dried. 

Lima Bean Succotash 

y 2 can corn 2 cups cooked lima beans 

2 tablespoons drippings salt and pepper to taste 

Heat corn and beans together, add seasoning and, if 
desired, a little milk. 

For the use of legumes in soups, see page 50. 

White Sauce 

White sauce or cream sauce sometimes called milk sauce 
or gravy, is much used to blend foods and add flavor. It 
also adds food value in inexpensive form. Milk, flour, fat 
and seasoning are the usual ingredients. All or part of the 
milk may be replaced by water, meat, fish, or chicken stock, 
and fruit or vegetable juices. For the fat, drippings, oleo, 
butter, lard, crisco, etc., may be used. 

THIN SAUCE. MEDIUM SAUCE. THICK SAUCE. 

I tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons flour 3-4 tablespoons flour 

i tablespoon fat 2 tablespoons fat 2-4 tablespoons fat 

l /4 teaspoon salt l /4 teaspoon salt l A- l /2 teaspoon salt 

Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper 

etc. etc. i cup liquid 

I cup liquid I cup liquid 

Suitable for cream- For general use Basis of croquettes, 

ed potatoes, maca- with fish and most meat loaf, etc. 
roni, toast, etc. vegetables. 

Methods of mixing: (i) Melt fat in saucepan, stir until 
frothy all over, then add liquid slowly, hot or cold, while 
stirring ; cook again until thick, stirring until smooth. 

(2) Rub fat and flour together and stir into the warm 
liquid in a double boiler, then cook and stir until thick and 
smooth. 

(3) When less fat is used, rub the flour smoothly with 
a little cold liquid and stir into the remainder, which 
should be hot, and cook in double boiler until smooth. 
Then add fat and seasoning. 



VEGETABLES 

Besides the starch and sugar they contain, which furnish 
energy for the body, vegetables have in them minerals 
which are necessary to health. If we do not get these min- 
erals in our food, we will probably be compelled to get them 
in the form of medicine, which means that we must buy 
the medicine as well as pay a doctor for prescribing for us. 
For example, the person who has a pallid color is probably 
anemic. He needs iron, and instead of taking an iron tonic 
it is much better to get iron into the blood by eating foods 
rich in iron, such as carrots, spinach, prunes, turnips and 
other fruits and vegetables. During the summer by watch- 
ing the markets and wagons we can usually get a good 
variety of fresh vegetables at reasonable prices. In the 
winter, we have what is known as winter vegetables. 

COMMON WINTER VEGETABLES 

Price per Pound Time for Cooking 

Carrots i to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Rutabaga I to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Onion i to 2 cts. 30 min. to 2 hours 

Beets I to 3 cts. i hour to 3 hours 

Parsnips 2 to 4 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Celery root 3 to 5 cts. 30 min. to I hour 

Cabbage 2 to 4 cts. 20 min. to 40 min. 

Turnip i to 3 cts. 20 min. to 30 min. 

Directions for Cooking Vegetables 

When these vegetables are to be served creamed, but- 
tered, browned, etc., they should first be pared and cut into 
pieces, after being carefully washed. Cook until tender in 
boiling salted water. Beets are an exception to this rule, 
as they should be cooked whole with the skin on. The time 
for cooking varies with the age of the vegetable and the 
size of the pieces into which it is cut. 

As the valuable minerals which the vegetables contain are 
soluble, much of them go into the water in which the 
vegetable is cooked. For this reason none of it should be 
thrown away. If it cannot be served with the vegetable it 
should be used for soups. 

In steaming and baking there is no loss of minerals and 
these methods may sometimes be used. 

43 



44 LOW COST COOKING 

Buttered Beets 

Cook beets, following directions above. When tender 
remove outer skin by rubbing it off with the fingers under 
running water. Slice, and add butter, oleo or drippings, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. 

Rutabaga, parsnips, onions, and turnips may all be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Creamed Rutabaga 

Cook in large pieces until tender. When done cut in 
half-inch cubes, add white sauce and serve hot. 

CREAMED CARROT, TURNIP, CELERY ROOT, and PARSNIP 
are prepared in the same way. 

Hashed Cabbage 

When cooked tender, drain off the water in which the 
cabbage has been cooked, which should be saved for adding 
flavoring to soup. Chop cabbage fine, add 2 tablespoons of 
water, 2 tablespoons drippings, salt and pepper to taste. 
Set back on fire for a few minutes until flavorings are ab- 
sorbed, stirring constantly. Serve hot. 

HASHED TURNIPS and RUTABAGA are prepared in the 
same way. 

Scalloped Onion 

Remove the outer skin from onions ; boil whole until 
tender. Place onions in baking dish with alternate layers 
of bread crumbs, cover with milk, water or mixture of milk 
and water ; cover top of dish with bread crumbs, brown in 
oven. 

Scalloped turnips, cabbage and tomatoes are prepared in 
the same way. 

Browned Parsnips 

When parsnips are cooked tender, cut in half-inch slices, 
long way ; brown in oven with bits of bacon over the top, 
or in a frying pan with drippings. 

Potatoes 

Potatoes must be treated differently from other vegeta- 
bles because of the large proportion of starch they contain. 
When properly cooked, potatoes are dry and mealy. Soggy, 
watery potatoes are difficult to digest and unwholesome. 
Follow directions carefully to avoid this. 



VEGETABLES 45 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes carefully, leave whole or cut in 
uniform size and drop into boiling salted water. Boil 
until tender but not longer. Test the potatoes by sticking 
a knife or fork tine into it to determine when it is tender. 
They will usually be done in 30 minutes. When done, drain 
all the water off at once and set the kettle back on a very 
low fire with the cover partly on until the remaining mois- 
ture is gone. Add drippings for seasoning. 

Boiling potatoes with the skins on saves much waste. 
Wash the potatoes, drop into boiling salted water and boil 
until tender. Drain off water, break the skin of each potato 
so that it will not become soggy, and set kettle on back of 
stove to dry out moisture. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Mash boiled potatoes, add drippings and milk, and beat 
well. Keep hot but uncovered until served. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut boiled or baked potatoes in half-inch cubes, add white 
sauce and reheat. To each cup of potatoes add 3/2 to I cup 
white sauce. 

Creamed Potatoes with Cheese 

Prepare creamed potatoes as above. Set kettle on back 
of stove and add cheese grated or chopped fine. Stir occa- 
sionally until cheese is melted, but do not let it boil, as a 
high degree of heat will make the cheese stringy and 
tough. To each cup of potatoes I to 2 tablespoons cheese 
may be used. 

Hashed Potatoes 

Chop cold boiled or baked potatoes fine, put into a hot 
greased frying pan, and brown. Chopped leftover meat 
may be added. 

Baked Potatoes 

Choose medium sized, smooth potatoes, wash, bake for 
one hour in a hot oven. As soon as they are taken up, 
break the skin to let out the moisture. If this is left in they 
will soon become soggy. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Fill baking dish with alternate layers of sliced potatoes 
and onions, add salt and pepper to taste, add milk or milk 



46 LOW COST COOKING 

and water to cover. Put layer of bread crumbs over top 
and bake i l / 2 to 2 hours or until potatoes and onions are 
cooked. Leftover potatoes may be used, in which case 
much less time will be required for cooking. One-half 
hour will usually be sufficient to cook the onions, if sliced 
thin. 

Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet potatoes contain more nourishment than white 
potatoes, so that at 3 cents per pound they are about as 
expensive in proportion to their food value as white pota- 
toes at 2 cents per pound. They are not, however, so easily 
digested. 

They are boiled or baked in exactly the same way as 
white potatoes. 

SUMMER VEGETABLES 

Almost all the vegetables listed under winter vegetables 
are to be obtained all summer at still lower prices than 
those named. In addition the vegetables in the following 
table may, in season, be obtained at reasonable prices : 

Time for Cooking 

Spinach and other greens 30 to 40 minutes 

Beet greens 50 minutes 

Green corn 15 to 30 minutes 

Kohlrabi 20 to 40 minutes 

Asparagus 15 to 30 minutes 

String beans l / 2 to i hour- 
Peas 20 to 30 minutes 

Artichokes 30 minutes 

Lettuce (served raw). (See Salads.) 
Radishes (served raw). 

Spinach and Other Greens 

Spinach and other greens must be very carefully washed 
through 4 or 5 waters until all of the dirt and sand caught 
in the leaves is removed. When clean drop into boiling 
water and cook until tender. Evaporate most of the water, 
add salt, pepper, and drippings or oleo. 

Beet Greens 

Leave small beet root and top together. Wash carefully ; 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Add seasoning 
as above, or milk. 



VEGETABLES 



47 



Corn on Cob 

Remove husk, cut out any decayed part ; wash ears and 
drop into boiling unsalted water; cook 15 to 30 minutes, 
according to age. Salted water turns the corn yellow. 
Serve hot with salt. 

Kohlrabi 

Wash and pare ; cut in slices or cubes and cook until 
tender. Add salt, pepper and drippings or oleomargarine. 
They may also be served creamed by adding white sauce. 

String Beans 

Wash, remove strings and break into i-inch pieces. Cook 
in boiling salted water until tender. Add drippings for 
seasoning. They may be seasoned by a piece of salt pork 
which is put on in the beginning and cooked with the beans. 

Peas 

Shell peas ; cook until tender in boiling water. Add salt, 
pepper and drippings or oleomargarine for seasoning; or 
they may be creamed by adding white sauce. 



SALADS 

Vegetable foods that may be eaten raw, such as lettuce, 
tomatoes, cabbage, cucumbers, cress and celery, are most 
suitable for salads. All sorts of cooked vegetables, how- 
ever, and raw or cooked fruits may be dressed and served 
cold as salads. Combinations that are good are cold boiled 
kidney beans with chopped celery, cold boiled peas with 
carrots, chopped cabbage with celery or nuts, sliced cucum- 
bers with lettuce, tomatoes with lettuce, apples with celery. 
Chopped peanuts may be added to all of these if desired. 
In mixing a salad have all materials as cold as possible. 
Mix with the dressing. All kinds may be served on let- 
tuce leaves or with sprigs of cress. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole egg 
1/3 cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour 54 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons oleo or crisco y% teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with oleo and part of milk, 
add remaining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back 
of stove, add egg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the egg. 
Add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix thoroughly. 

Oil Dressing for Salad 

6 tablespoons oil 2 teaspoons salt 

i to 2 tablespoons vinegar or Y& teaspoon paprika 
lemon juice 

The oil used may be olive, cottonseed or peanut. Olive 
oil costs from 65 cents to $1.25 per quart, while cottonseed 
and peanut oils cost 25 to 45 cents, have the same food 
value, and a very pleasant flavor. 

Put salt and paprika in dish with vinegar or lemon 
juice and mix thoroughly. Pour in the oil slowly, beating 
all the time. 

43 



SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into the two general classes ; those 
made with meat and those without. 

SOUPS WITH MEAT. Meat is used to give flavor. In 
order to extract the juices which contain the flavoring ma- 
terial the meat should be started to cook in cold water and 
cooked slowly for a long time. This leaves the meat itself 
tasteless, but it still contains most of its food value and 
should always be used. It can either be served with the 
soup so that its lack of flavor will not be noticed or it may 
be served in combination with a highly-flavored vegetable 
such as tomatoes or onions. 

ADDITIONS TO MEAT SOUPS. The soup itself made in this 
way has a pleasing taste and acts as a stimulant to digestion, 
but contains very little food. To make it more nourishing 
other food materials may be added. For example, a cereal 
such as rice or barley ; a flour preparation such as macaroni, 
noodles, or dumplings ; or a legume such as beans, peas or 
lentils. 

FAT WITH SOUP. Soup containing much fat from the 
meat should not be given to young children or to adults 
with delicate stomachs, as it is difficult to digest and may 
cause digestive disturbances. To remove the fat set the 
soup aside to cool. When the fat has risen to the top and 
hardened remove it, reheat the soup and serve. 

SOUP STOCK FROM BONES. Always save the bones of the 
chicken or other fowl, fish, or those from roast, pot roast 
or chops. If the bones are large crack them, cover well 
with cold water and cook slowly five or six hours. Strain 
out the bones, add vegetables for seasoning and rice or 
barley for nourishment and cook until these are well done. 

49 



50 LOW COST COOKING 

SEASONING FOR SOUPS AND STEWS. The success of a 
soup lies largely in the flavoring. Any cook may by making 
a few experiments in combining flavors find those most 
pleasing to the taste of the people for whom she cooks. Do 
not be afraid to try new combinations of flavoring. 

Some favorite flavorings are tomatoes, onion, celery, 
turnip, carrot, cabbage, parsley and bay leaves. A com- 
bination of several different flavors is usually better liked 
than a single one. 

The tough leaves of celery, unfitted for other uses, 
should always be dried in the sun or oven and kept in a 
fruit jar for future use. Parsley may be dried in the same 
way; or better still grown in a window box so as always 
to be ready for use. 

No water in which vegetables have been cooked should 
ever be thrown away, but kept to add flavoring to soups. 

To SERVE WITH SOUP. Bread, toast, croutons or crackers 
are usually served with soup. Crackers are more expensive 
than the other materials, as a pound of crackers contains 
only a little more nourishment than a pound of bread. The 
crackers cost 10 cents per pound in bulk and 16 cents per 
pound in packages, while bakers' bread costs 67^ cents per 
pound and may be made at home for half that amount. 

CROUTONS. Croutons are made of bread toasted a light 
brown all the way through. Cut stale bread in round, 
square or oblong pieces or in one-inch cubes, and set in a 
slow oven until brown. In serving, the cubes may be 
dropped on the bowl of soup just before it is taken to the 
table. 

SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. Soups without meat are usually 
made of vegetables or legumes with or without the addi- 
tion of milk. 

CREAM SOUPS. A cream soup is a very thin white sauce, 
flavored with vegetable. It should be smooth and about as 
thick as thin cream. 



SOUPS 
Cream of Lima Bean Soup 

3 cups lima beans (cooked) 3 tablespoons drippings or 
i l /2 cups milk suet 

1^2 cups water 2 tablespoons flour 

Y% teaspoon pepper l l /2 teaspoons salt 

If additional seasoning is desired use I tablespoon each of 
onion, celery, parsley, etc., or any one of them alone. 

Melt suet, stir in flour, add water and boil for 5 minutes. 
If onion or celery is used for flavoring add it chopped fine 
to the suet before adding flour. Put beans through a 
colander or mash them fine ; add them and the milk to the 
soup. Do not boil again, but keep hot until served. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, split peas, green peas, corn 
and potatoes may be used instead of the lima beans. The 
potatoes and peas should be mashed fine and the beans and 
corn crushed through a colander before being added. 

PUREES are thick soups, usually made without milk. 

Puree of Split Pea 

4 cups split peas (cooked) I tablespoon flour 
2 cups water I teaspoon salt 

2 slices fat pork 1 A> teaspoon pepper 

For additional flavoring, if desired, i tablespoon each of 
onion, parsley, celery, etc., may be used. 

Fry pork until crisp and break or cut into small bits. 
Stir flour into the pork and drippings. Add water and boil 
5 minutes. If onion, celery or any of the flavoring mate- 
rials requiring cooking are used, chop fine and add to drip- 
pings before stirring in the flour. Add peas, mashed fine, 
and salt and pepper. This soup may be made more nutri- 
tious by using milk instead of part of the water. It should 
be added last so that the mixture need not boil afterwards. 
Just before serving sprinkle cube shaped croutons over the 
top of the bowl. 

Navy beans, lima beans, kidney beans, carrots, green peas 
or corn may be used instead of the split peas. When beans 
are used tomatoes may be used for flavoring. 

Sour Cream. Soup 
4 cups broken bread 3 tablespoons sour cream 

3 cups water 3 tablespoons drippings 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Stir bread in hot drippings until brown ; add hot water 
and let the mixture stand a few minutes until the bread is 
soaked. Just before serving add seasoning and sour cream. 



LOW COST COOKING 

Potato Soup with Leek 

5 medium-sized potatoes 4 slices salt pork 

i leek 2 tablespoons flour 

y^ onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil potatoes and leek together until soft and mash them 
in the water in which they are cooked. Fry salt pork crisp, 
break into small bits, stir flour and chopped up onion into 
drippings and add the whole to potatoes and leek. Add 
sufficient water to form thick soup. 

Bean Soup 

An excellent household manager says : 

"A very good soup is made when you prepare beans to 
bake. Soak the beans over night, rinse and put on to boil 
in the morning with plenty of cold water. Boil until beans 
are soft, using a small piece of fat pork or bacon for sea- 
soning. When soft, take out beans in baking dish, leaving 
about two cupfuls in the water. Add more water, let sim- 
mer on back of the stove. Season the beans, using syrup 
to sweeten if desired, also the pork and arrange in pan to 
bake. Put them aside for supper, baking slowly with 
plenty of water on them. About one hour before dinner, 
cut up about 3 medium sized potatoes, two onions and a 
carrot into the soup. Let cook thoroughly and serve hot 
with toast or crackers. This will make a very good dinner, 
leaving the baked beans for supper. Try this on baking 
day. The soup will use up all the stale bread, and fresh 
biscuits with syrup and the baked beans with stewed toma- 
toes make a fine supper." 

Thin Soups without Milk 

Soups of the same thickness as cream soups may be 
made of vegetables without milk. 

Bean and Tomato Soup 

3 cups boiled beans i small onion 

1 cup tomatoes i tablespoon mixed parsley 

2 cups water 2 tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons drippings 

Mince onion and parsley, add to melted drippings and 
cook. Stir in the flour, add water and boil. Add beans 
mashed fine and tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. 

Split peas, kidney beans, lentils, string beans, green peas, 
corn, potatoes or potatoes mixed with parsnips may be 
used instead of beans. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 

When a dessert is served it should round out the meal, 
furnishing something which is lacking. If the meal has 
not contained enough starchy food use a dessert made of 
rice, tapioca or bread. 

Fresh fruit, raw, stewed or baked, makes a good dessert. 
In cooking, use the skin of the fruit if it cooks tender. Dried 
fruits are useful in times when fresh ones are most expen- 

sive - Dried Fruits 

Wash carefully; soak over night; cook slowly in same 
water; add sugar to taste. 

Apples, apricots, peaches, dates, raisins, currants and 
prunes are to be cooked in this way. Combining two or 
more of these is sometimes better than one alone. 

Apples may be combined with either prunes or raisins, 
peaches with apricots, etc., using a fruit containing much 
acid with one containing little. 

Baked Banana 

Baked bananas are more easily digested than raw ones. 
Peel the banana and cut lengthwise into halves ; lay in 
baking pan and bake them about 15 minutes in moderate 
oven. Serve sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice. 

Baked Rhubarb 

Wash rhubarb, cut into half -inch pieces, place in baking 
dish, sprinkle generously with sugar, and add small amount 
of water, just enough to start it, as it contains much water. 
Bake in a slow oven for about \y 2 hours, or until pieces 
are tender. Rice Pudding 

i quart skim milk, or i pint ^ teaspoon salt 

whole milk and I pint water l /^ cup sugar 
l /$ cup rice 

Mix ingredients together, pour in a greased baking dish, 
bake three hours in a very slow oven, stirring frequently 
to prevent the rice from sticking to the bottom of the dish. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Rice with Fruit 

Boiled or steamed rice, with stewed fruit which has been 
cooked with plenty of water, poured over it, makes a good 

53 



54 LOW COST COOKING 

dessert. Prunes, black or red plums and peaches are espe- 
cially good for this. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons chocolate or 

54 cup sugar cocoa 

5 tablespoons flour J4 teaspoon salt 

Mix flour, sugar and chocolate, add milk and boil, stir- 
ring constantly to prevent lumping, until mixture thickens. 
Serve hot or cold with milk or cream. 

Indian Pudding 

I quart scalded milk H cup cornmeal 

Ys cup molasses I teaspoon salt 

Pour the milk slowly on the meal and cook in double 

boiler for 15 minutes. Pour into a greased baking dish, and 

bake 2 hours or more in a slow oven. 

Brown Betty 

Place a layer of sour apples, pared and cut in thin slices, 
in the bottom of a baking dish. Sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon or nutmeg, add layer of toasted bread crumbs and 
another of apple and so on to the top of the dish. Scatter 
a few bits of suet over the top layer of crumbs. Add 
enough water to moisten the crumbs well and bake in a 
slow oven, covered, until apples are done. Instead of raw 
apples, apple sauce made of dried apples may be used. 

Berry Betty, Plum Betty, Date Betty, etc., may be made 
in the same way, using these fruits instead of apples. Any 
juicy fruit may be used. The toasted bread may be used 
in whole slices instead of crumbed. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

i cup flour i tablespoon oleo, cottosuet 

1 egg or drippings 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons milk Y?. teaspoon salt 

Sift flour with salt and baking powder. Add drippings 
and rub through flour with finger tips. Add egg and milk. 
Mix with knife. 

Cherries, rhubarb, plums, fresh or dried apples, fresh or 
dried peaches, etc., may be used for fruit. Stew with 
plenty of w r ater. While fruit is boiling drop dough on top 
by tablespoonfuls. Cover kettle and cook for 20 minutes 
without lifting cover. Remove cover and set in oven for a 
few minutes. Serve hot. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 55 

Flavoring for Desserts 

The good flavoring extracts on the market are expensive, 
and the economical housekeeper should study the use of 
other materials which cost less. Spices, especially nutmeg, 
mace, ginger and cinnamon, may be used in cake instead of 
vanilla. Caraway and poppy seed may be used in cookies 
and sweet breads. Caramel is a pleasing flavor, and when 
made at home is very inexpensive. 

Caramel 

1 cup sugar */ 3 cup water 

Boil sugar and water until it becomes a thick medium 
brown mixture. Remove from fire, add enough hot water 
to make a thick syrup. If cold water is put into the hot 
syrup it will pop out and may injure the cook. Another 
method is to heat the sugar in a dry pan until it melts and 
browns, then add hot water and boil until it becomes a thick 
syrup. Caramel made in this way may be set aside in a 
covered dish or jelly glass, to be used as needed. It will not 
spoil and needs only to be kept clean. 

Cake 

The success of a cake lies more in the mixing and baking 
than in the richness of the ingredients. Measure carefully 
and follow directions closely. In baking, keep the heat of 
the oven as even as possible and do not allow the cake to 
be jarred or cold air to strike it while it is baking. When 
it is done, the edges will shrink from the pan and the sur- 
face will be firm to the touch. 

Plain Cake 

2 cups sifted flour i or 2 eggs 

i cup sugar 3 tablespoons oleomargarine 

I cup liquid 4 teaspoons bfiking powder 

(milk, or milk and water) 

Flavoring 1 /4 teaspoon mace, nutmeg or other spices ; 
i tablespoon caramel, etc. 

Mix sugar, oleomargarine and egg yolks thoroughly to- 
gether. Add the liquid and all except l /4 cup of the flour 
and beat the mixture hard for five minutes. Add the 
egg whites beaten stiff, the remaining flour mixed and sifted 
with the baking powder, mix quickly and pour into a but- 
tered pan. Bake in a moderate oven. 



56 LOW COST COOKING 

It may be baked in a loaf, in layers, or made into cup 
cakes by baking in muffin pan. 

Cottage Pudding 

Cut plain cake while still warm in squares, and pour over 
it chocolate, caramel, or lemon sauce, or stewed fruit. 

Chocolate or Caramel Sauce 

iY 2 cups boiling water Y cup cocoa or grated choco- 

24 cup sugar late or 2 tablespoons cara- 

3 tablespoons flour mel, made as above 

Mix dry ingredients together and add cold water to 
moisten, pour on boiling water, stirring constantly, and boil 
five minutes. Nutmeg Sauce. 

Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add I table- 
spoonful oleomargarine and ^4 teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

Lemon Sauce 

Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add 2 table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice after it is off the fire. 

Spice Cake 

2 cups flour i egg 

i cup brown sugar Yz teaspoon soda 

Yz cup melted drippings i l / 2 teaspoons baking powder 

y$ cup sour milk i teaspoon cinnamon 

Yz each teaspoon allspice and cloves 

Mix egg, sugar, drippings and sour milk. Add flour 
mixed and sifted with spices, soda and baking powder; 
mix well; bake in shallow, well-greased pan. If no 
sour milk is to be had use sweet milk or water, leave out 
soda and use 4 teaspoons baking powder. Other spices may 
be used instead of those named. For chocolate cake add 
]/4 cup cocoa. 

Quick Cup Cakes (Lightning Cake). 
Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
\y 2 cups of flour, 24 CU P of fine granulated or brown 
sugar, 3 level teaspoons of baking powder, J/ teaspoon of 
salt. Sift in the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt ^4 CU P leo or crisco or lard, 
break in I or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add J/ 
teaspoon flavoring extract or l /^. teaspoon of spice. Mix 
with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For CHOCOLATE CAKE add 3 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 57 

Oat Meal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 3 teaspoons baking powder 

y 2 cup flour 3 tablespoons oleo or drippings 

i cup sugar I pinch salt 

1 egg 4 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten egg and milk. Add more 
milk if necessary to moisten ingredients ; drop by teaspoon- 
fuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

Bran Cookies 

Beat i egg well, add to it % cup melted fat, l /\. cup brown 
sugar, Y4 cup milk, and y 2 cup molasses. Sift into this i l / 2 
cups white flour to which has been added l / 2 teaspoonful 
soda, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and y 2 teaspoonful 
salt. Beat well, then add 1^/4 cups bran and I cup raisins 
chopped. Mix well and drop from the tip of a spoon onto 
greased pans. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Ginger Bread 

2 cups flour i teaspoon ginger 
y* cup sugar l / 2 cup molasses 

y$ cup hot water 2 teaspoons baking powder 

5 tablespoons melted drip- H teaspoon soda 

pings H teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to the molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour i cup finely chopped suet 

2 cups breadcrumbs I cup sugar 

i cup milk or water y^ teaspoon salt 

grating of nutmeg 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, and 
set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an hour. 

For boiling tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 2^/2 to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way 
that a cake or pudding is baked. 



58 LOW COST COOKING 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces or as a cake without 
sauce. One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pud- 
ding, or a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be 
added to give variety. 

Caramel Junket 

1 quart milk i to 2 tablespoons sugar 
i junket tablet, dissolved in i tablespoon lukewarm water 

Junket tablets are bought at a drug store for 10 cents a 
package. When added to milk junket causes it to become 
solid and it is then more easily digested. Directions must 
be very carefully followed. It is very useful for invalids 
and children. 

Brown I tablespoonful of sugar in a hot stewpan. Add 
the milk and leave on fire until sugar is all dissolved. Add 
more sugar if desired, and cool until lukewarm. Add the 
dissolved junket tablet, stir, pour mixture into dessert 
dishes and let stand until it jellies. Serve very cold. 

Lemon Jelly 

l /4 box gelatin 54 cup lemon juice 

Y 2 cup sugar Speck of salt 

Soak gelatin in a little cold water, pour on boiling water 
to dissolve it, add sugar and lemon juice and make up to I 
pint with cold water. Strain, set in cool place to harden. 

Orange and other fruit jellies made in the same way. 

CANDY 

A small amount of candy is useful in feeding children. 
When made at home by simple recipes, candy is one of our 
cheapest foods. It should be given children after meals 

onl y- Caramel Cream Candy 

2 cups sugar i l / 2 cups water 
Heat */3 cup sugar in hot stew pan until it melts and 

turns a medium brown. Add remaining sugar and water 
and boil slowly so that it will be at least 30 minutes before 
it is done. Test by dropping y 2 teaspoonful into a cup of 
very cold water. When it is cooked enough the syrup will 
harden in the water until it can be rolled by the fingers into 
a firm ball. It should not be hard enough to be brittle. 
Set aside to cool, and begin to beat when lukewarm. It will 
become lighter in color, and as soon as it begins to grain 
very slightly pour into a buttered plate and cut into squares. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 59 

Brittle 

Brittle is made from melted sugar. It may be combined 
with nuts and made into peanut brittle, walnut brittle, etc., 
or left plain. 

Place the amount of sugar to be used in a stewpan or 
frying pan, and melt over a low fire. Stir frequently and 
watch constantly or the sugar will brown too much while 
melting. It should be a very light brown when done. To 
cool, turn a tin pie pan upside down and pour the melted 
sugar on this. Scour the bottom of the pan before using 
and do not pour on enough to allow it to run over the 
sides. The nuts, if used, are added just before pouring 
out. They may be chopped fine or used whole. As soon 
as the candy is cool it may be easily broken loose from the 
pan by striking the inside of the pan. 

The brittle may be made light if desired by adding l / 2 
teaspoonful soda to the candy made from 3 cups sugar. Sift 
it in and shake pan well to mix, then pour out quickly. 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

Frozen desserts are useful in very hot weather and may 
be made at home instead of allowing children to buy cheap 
ice cream cones which are often unclean and unwholesome. 

Ice Cream 

i quart milk I cup sugar 

4 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons caramel or 

I egg browned sugar 

y teaspoon salt 

Mix sugar and flour, add 2 cups milk and boil. Remove 
from fire, add egg, well beaten, stir and allow mixture to 
stand 10 minutes to cook the egg. Add other ingredients, 
cool and freeze. Fruit Ice 

4 cups water 2 cups sugar 

y^ cup fruit juice (lemon, orange, plum, grape, etc., or a 

mixture of several) 

Boil sugar and water for 10 minutes. Cool, add fruit 
juice and freeze. 

To FREEZE. Place the mixture to be frozen in a granite 
pail with a lid. The ice cream may be frozen in a good tin 
pail or in a baking powder can. Place the pail or can in a 
larger vessel with layer of chopped ice under inside pail, 
then pack space between pails with chopped ice mixed with 
coarse salt. Use I cup salt to 3 cups ice. Turn inner pail 



60 LOW COST COOKING 

constantly until mixture begins to freeze, then scrape from 
sides of pail, turn again, scrape, and so on until thick. 

Children love to do the freezing and three pails or cans of 
ice cream can be frozen at once in a dishpan half full of 
cracked ice. 

PRESERVES, JELLIES AND MARMALADES 

A combination of fruit and sugar, boiled until the fruit 
is cooked and the product is sweet and thick, is a useful 
food, and fairly economical when the fruit can be secured 
at the low price it can often be bought for during the height 
of the season. In jam and marmalade the whole of the 
fruit is used and they are for that reason more economical 
than jelly, which uses only the juice. The two methods may 
be combined sometimes, jam or marmalade being made from 
the pulp of the fruit after part of the juice has been drained 
off for jelly. 

Jams, Butters and Marmalades 

Cook fruit until soft with as little water as possible. 
Remove seeds by running through a colander, add ^ to I 
cup sugar to each cup of fruit and boil until the desired 
thickness is reached. Jams and butters are made thick 
enough to drop from the spoon, while marmalade is a little 
thinner. They may be made of plums, peaches, apples, 
grapes, berries of all kinds, tomatoes and many other fruits. 

Preserves 

Wash small fruit such as plums and berries and use 
whole. Large fruits such as peaches and pears should be 
pared and cut into pieces. Add ^2 to ^4 CU P S of sugar to 
each cup of raw fruit and cook until the desired thickness 
is reached. All of the fruits named above may be used for 
preserves. Jellies 

In order to make good jelly a fruit must contain both 
acid and a substance called pectin. Some of the fruits good 
for jelly are currants, sour apples, crabapples, under-ripe 
grapes and plums. Peaches, pears, sweet apples and quinces 
alone will not make jelly as they do not contain enough 
acid. 

Extract the juice of the fruit by boiling; drain off the 
juice, strain it and add i cup sugar to each cup of juice. 
Boil 5 minutes for each cup of juice used, at the end of 



PRESERVES 6l 

which time it will usually be found to be done. The inex- 
perienced cook should test it by setting a small part aside 
to cool. This time rule will not hold if more than 3 cups 
of juice are boiled at once. It is better, however, to boil 
the jelly a little at. a time, as large quantities require long 
boiling, which darkens the jelly. Skim off the dark froth 
which rises to the top with boiling. 

SEALING JAMS AND PRESERVES. The jam or preserves 
should be poured boiling hot into hot jars or glasses which 
have lain in boiling water for at least 3 minutes. A con- 
venient method for sealing the top is to pour over it when 
cold a layer of melted paraffine. When the fruit is used 
wash the sheet of paraffine and keep it for use again. 

Apple Jelly 

Wash apples well and cut into small pieces. Apple par- 
ings and cores alone may be used as these contain more 
pectin than the rest of the apple. Cook until apples are 
well softened using as little water as possible. Put into a 
clean bag made of thin cloth, such as flour or sugar sack and 
drain until as much juice as possible is out. Put 3 cups 
juice into stew pan with 3 cups of sugar, boil 15 minutes. 
Test by putting a few drops on cold plate and if necessary 
boil longer. Rhub arb and Fig Preserves 

4 pounds rhubarb I pound figs 

3 pounds sugar 

Cut rhubarb and figs into I inch pieces, add sugar and 
let it stand over night. In the morning let it cook slowly 
one hour, until figs are tender. Stir occasionally. 

Date and Prune Jam 

i pound prunes juice from y 2 lemon 

i pound dates 1 A cup sugar 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, stoned and 
cooked, lemon juice and sugar. Cook mixture until thick. 
In the same way prunes may be combined with figs, and 
figs with dates. Sugar may be omitted. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

3^/2 pounds rhubarb 2 lemons 

3 pounds sugar 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into half-inch pieces. With a sharp knife 
pare off very thin the colored part of the lemon and orange, 



62 LOW COST COOKING 

cut it into small pieces and add to the rhubarb. Remove 
peel of the oranges and lemons, divide them into sections, 
remove seeds and add to mixture. Boil a half hour, add 
sugar and boil very slowly iy 2 hours longer. 

APPETIZERS 

Pickles, catsups, etc., have little food value, but are useful 
to a certain extent as appetizers. They should not be used 
at all for children under 7 years of age and very sparingly 
for older children. They are hard for the delicate stom- 
achs of children to digest and spoil the appetite for the 
simple foods they should be taught to eat. The abnormal 
craving for appetizers is either the result of habit or is 
caused by the diet containing too little fruit and vegetables. 
It is much better to satisfy the appetite by adding more of 
these than by using pickles, etc., in large quantities. 

Sour Cucumbers 

6 large cucumbers y 2 cup vinegar 

Y 2 cup sugar spices 

Pare the cucumbers and cut the long way into eighths. 
Cover with hot salted water and cook until tender. Pour 
off water, add vinegar and sugar and enough water to 
cover. Tie I teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon 
in a thin white cloth and drop into the kettle ; simmer J/ 
hour. The largest cucumbers that come into the market 
are best for this, which is more easily digested than pickles. 

Tomato Catsup 

Y 2 peck ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

i tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons mace 

y^ cup sugar I teaspoon cayenne 

i cup vinegar pepper 

Scald tomatoes and remove skins. Add other ingre- 
dients and boil slowly until reduced one-half, then pass 
through sieve. Reheat and put into clean jars or bottles 
that have lain five minutes in boiling water. Seal tightly. 

Watermelon Rind Pickles 

Remove all the pink pulp and thin green skin from the 
rind and cut into cubes or strips. Cover with salt and 
water and boil one-half hour. Drain off the water, make 
enough syrup to cover, using i cup water and y\ cup sugar 



BEVERAGES 63 

to each cup of vinegar. Let the mixture boil, add whole 
cloves for seasoning and pour over the rind. Boil until 
rind is tender. 

BEVERAGES 

When well made, coffee and tea are suitable drinks for 
adults, but are always harmful to children. They are stim- 
ulants only and contain no food except what is given them 
by the sugar and milk added. 

Coffee 

One of the most important things about making good 
coffee is the care of the coffee pot. Coffee should never 
be used after it has stood on the grounds for an hour or 
more. Always make just enough for the meal and after- 
wards empty the pot, wash, dry and leave open to air 
until next used. If any coffee is left over, however, it may 
be kept good by draining from the grounds and keeping it 
in a covered vessel. It may then be used cold or reheated. 
Cold coffee is very refreshing in hot weather. 

PROPORTIONS. 2 level (one rounded) tablespoonfuls cof- 
fee makes a strong cup of coffee; \y 2 level tablespoonful 
makes medium strong and I level tablespoonful makes weak 
coffee. See page 67 for recipe and directions. 

Tea 

Have teapot hot when tea is put in. Use i teaspoon tea 
to each cup for strong tea, or as much less as is liked. Pour 
water into the pot just as soon as it has boiled. 

Drinks for Children 

Milk or buttermilk is, of course, the best drink for chil- 
dren. If a hot drink is desired, cocoa, cambric or cinnamon 
tea, toast tea or cereal drinks may be given. 

Cocoa 

4 teaspoons cocoa 4 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups water % teaspoon flour 

2 cups milk I pinch salt 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add enough cold water to 
dissolve and add remaining water and boil for 5 minutes 



64 LOW COST COOKING 

or longer. Add milk and heat, but do not allow it to boil 
after the milk is added. Before serving beat with an egg 
beater until it froths. This will prevent a scum from form- 
ing on the top. 

Cambric or Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups milk l /% teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups boiling water 3 teaspoons sugar 

Serve hot. 

Toast Tea 

I cup toasted breadcrumbs 4 cups water 

Add boiling water to the toasted bread crumbs. Serve 
with sugar and milk as desired. 

Cereal Drinks 

Several cereal drinks, such as Postum, are on the market, 
but are rather expensive. Directions for making comes on 
the package. 

An economical cereal drink may be made by toasting 
barley, wheat, rye or other grains, grinding them in the 
coffee mill and boiling until the water is well colored. 
Serve with sugar and milk as desired. 

Summer Drinks 

Any fruit juice left from stewed or canned fruit can 
be used in making fruit drinks for summer, as well as 
lemon and orange juice. These are both refreshing and 
healthful. 

Cocoa Shells 

I cup shells 6 cups water 

Boil slowly 2 hours, strain and serve with milk and sugar. 



MENUS 

The menus in the following pages are given as samples of 
meals which furnish the food necessary to keep the body 
in health at the least possible cost. If the buying is care- 
fully done and the cooking all done at home these meals 
may be served for the amount of money indicated or even 
less by unusually careful buying. If the buying is care- 
lessly done, however, or if any of the foods are bought 
ready cooked they may easily cost twice as much. 

Only the cheapest materials for furnishing each kind of 
food needed are used. For furnishing energy, cereals, in- 
cluding breadstuffs and fats of meat, bacon strips, suet, 
salad oils and oleomargarine are used. 

For furnishing protein the cheap cuts of meat, cheese and 
legumes are used for adults, milk and eggs for small chil- 
dren. 

For furnishing the mineral the cheapest fresh vegetables 
and fruits of each season are used. In winter dried fruits, 
root vegetables and canned tomatoes are chiefly used for 
this purpose. 

With only these materials to use it is hard to keep the 
bill of fare from becoming monotonous, and monotony is a 
destroyer of appetite. The menus therefore are planned 
to give as many different ways of preparing these food 
materials as possible and of new combinations. For this 
reason the same dish is seldom given twice, although of 
course a dish that is liked may be repeated several times 
per week without becoming tiresome. 

For the same reason the dishes in most common use, such 
as meat soups and stews, although excellent, are seldom 
used in these menus. Most housekeepers are familiar with 
them, use them largely and do not need to be reminded of 
them. 

Recipes give quantities suitable for serving families of 
six with two adults, of seven with one. 

65 



WINTER MEALS 

BREAKFAST 

Monday 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES WITH CARAMEL SYRUP 

FRIED BACON STRIP 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS, MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

2 cups cornmeal i l /2 cups liquid, milk and 

1 cup flour water mixed 

2 tablespoons melted drip- 6 teaspoons baking powder 
pings i l /z teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid and mix quickly. 
Have ready a hot greased griddle or frying pan, drop the 
mixture in by tablespoonfuls, as many as the pan will hold 
without their touching. Cook on slow fire until the cakes 
are brown on the lower side and the bubbles burst in the 
top; turn each cake to brown on the other side. Cook in 
this way until the batter is all used. Serve hot. 



"Drippings" 

By drippings is meant the fat from roasting, frying or 
boiling meat, fat trimmings, etc. Every bit of fat coming 
into the house should be saved and used. 

When more fat is needed the soft flank fat of beef or 
pork, which sells for about 10 cents a pound, may be used. 
Cut the fat into small pieces, removing any skin and bits 
of meat. Cover with cold salted water and let stand for 
4 or 5 hours or over night. This improves keeping qualities 
and flavor. Soak again if there is time. Now melt the 
fat slowly in the oven or over boiling water and cook 
until the scraps are crisp but not brown. Strain into clean 
pails, cans or jars which can be covered. Keep in a cool 
place. Use like lard, Crisco, etc., which costs about 5 cents 
a pound more. When using in recipes calling for butter, 
add more salt and take a little less because butter contains 
salt and is one-eighth water. 

Strongly flavored fats from bacon, ham and sausage 

66 



WINTER MEALS 67 

should be kept separate and used for hashes or warming 
over potatoes. Caramel Syrup 

2 cups sugar Y 2 cup water 

Put sugar and water in stewing pan, boil the syrup, stir- 
ring occasionally until it turns a light brown. Add I cup 
boiling water, and boil until of thickness desired. 

Fried Bacon Strips 

Cut thin slices of bacon from the strip. Remove skin and 
rind, lay the slices in a cold frying pan, cook until crisp and 
brown, turning as necessary. 

Bacon strips are the odd-shaped pieces of bacon cut from the side 
in the process of trimming. It sells for 14 to 22 cents per pound in 
pieces weighing 4 to 8 pounds. 

Coffee 

YA, cup ground coffee 2 cups (i pint) boiling water 

Moisten coffee with cold water ; add to boiling water and 
boil from one to three minutes. Keep hot without boiling 
for ten minutes longer. Add 2 tablespoons of cold water 
to settle the grounds and it is ready to serve. 

If a crushed egg-shell is added to the ground coffee with 
the cold water when making it will settle more easily and 
surely. Do not allow the coffee to stand on the grounds ; 
if not served at once, pour off and keep hot. See that the 
coffee pot is well washed and aired. Ground coffee loses 
flavor and strength, and if possible it is best to grind the 
coffee in a small hand mill just before making. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water to boil for coffee; set table except for the 
plates, which should be heated in some convenient way. Cut 
and prepare bacon. Make coffee if water has boiled. Meas- 
ure out ingredients for griddle cakes, mix them and start 
cooking, placing the cakes as they are done on a plate over 
a pan of boiling water. When the cakes are half done 
fry the bacon attending to both at the same time. The hot 
drippings from the bacon may be used with the cakes. 

Wash the top of the milk bottle, remove stopper and 
pour off the top of the milk for coffee ; put the rest in 
glasses for the children. Serve the cakes on the hot plates, 
settle and pour the coffee. 



68 LOW COST COOKING 

,, , LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Monday 

RICE WITH TOMATOES AND CHEESE 

BREAD AND OLEO 
TEA FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rice with Tomatoes and Cheese 

i cup rice 2-inch cube of cheese 

y 2 can tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

J4 teaspoon pepper 

Wash the rice, sift it slowly into about 5 cups of boiling, 
salted water. Boil 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally 
with a fork. When done evaporate the water by leaving it 
partly covered on a low fire. Add the tomatoes and pepper 
and boil. Pour into vegetable dish, and grate the cheese 
over the top. 

Tea 

i l /2 teaspoonful tea 2 cups boiling water 

Put the tea into a hot teapot, and pour the water freshly 
.boiled over it. Steep i to 3 minutes, never longer. Do not 
make the tea until ready to serve it, for tea becomes bitter 
and harmful if allowed to stand on the leaves. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the rice a half hour before meal time. While it is 
cooking, set the table and put on the water for the tea. 
Finish the rice and make the tea. 

DINNER 

Monday 

MEAT SOUP WITH CEREAL AND VEGETABLES 

TOASTED BREAD 

DRIED APPLE COBBLER 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Meat Soup with Cereal and Vegetables 

2.y 2 pounds soup beef 2 tablespoons celery leaves or 

1 cup barley, rice or parsley 

macaroni 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 tablespoons onion 2 cups carrot or celery root 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Choose shank, shoulder bone or neck bones, or any cheap 
cuts of beef, part lean and part bone. A piece which is 2 /z 
lean meat, the rest bone with a little fat, is best for soups. 



WINTER MEALS 69 

Wipe the meat clean with a cloth, wet with cold water, 
remove the fat if there is too much. Try it out in 
the oven and use as drippings. Do not allow the soup 
to be so greasy as to spoil the digestion of a child. Cover 
the meat (cut in rather small pieces) with cold water and 
allow it to cook slowly, but not boil, for from 6 to 10 
hours. Add barley 2 hours before meal time. Wash and 
pare the vegetables, cut them in ^2 inch cubes, and add I 
hour before meal time. Mince onion and celery leaves fine 
and add with the vegetables. 

Dried Apple Cobbler 

i l /2 cups dried apples I teaspoon cinnamon or nutmeg 

l /2 cup sugar 

Wash dried apples very carefully, soak 6 hours, or over 
night, cook slowly in same water until tender. Add sugar 
and place in baking dish. Sprinkle more sugar and cinna- 
mon or nut meg over top. Cover with the crust made as 
below, bake until brown in a moderately hot oven. Serve 
hot. Use fresh apples instead of dried when they are as 

chea P- Crust for Cobbler 

1 cup flour \y 2 tablespoons fat 
Yz cup milk or water YT. teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift flour with salt and baking powder, rub the 
fat into the flour with the finger tips, add milk and mix 
with a knife. Turn the dough on a floured board, and roll 
or pat to the thickness of l /4 inch. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash apples and put to soak the night before. Start the 
meat to cook for soup immediately after breakfast, and 
let it simmer on back of range all day. About two hours 
before dinner time add the barley to the soup, and put 
the dried apples on to cook. Prepare the vegetables and 
add them to the soup ; y 2 hour before meal time make 
pie crust and put pie in oven. Put bread in oven to toast ; 
make coffee and set table. 

Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OAT MEAL MUSH WITH DATES SERVED WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST 
COCOA FOR CHILDREN COFFEE FOR ADULTS 



LOW COST COOKING 

Oat Meal Mush with Dates 

i l / 2 cups oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

i teaspoon salt 

Sift oat meal slowly into boiling water, stirring constantly, 
boil three minutes, then cover closely and set pan in a larger 
vessel containing boiling water. Continue cooking i or 2 
hours longer. If placed the evening before in a fireless 
cooker it will be done in the morning, or it may cook over 
night on the back of a coal range where it can remain hot. 
Fifteen minutes before serving add the dates, washed, 
stoned and cut in halves. 

Toast 

Slice stale bread y 2 to y inch thick, lay in oven until 
brown, or brown over coals. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start oat meal cooking the night before. In the morning 
put it on to reheat, add dates, and make the coffee. Make 
toast; set table. Pour off top part of the milk for cereal 
and coffee. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Tuesday 

CREAMED CARROTS 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 

TEA FOR ADULTS 

Creamed Carrots 

Two pints of carrots, 3 cups of white sauce. Wash and 
pare carrots, cut into pieces y 2 inch thick, l /^ inch square. 
Cover with boiling water. Add 2 teaspoons of salt and cook 
until tender. Remove cover from pan, evaporate the water, 
and add the white sauce, made separately ; or, more simply, 
rub together 4 tablespoons of flour and 3 of drippings with 
y 2 cup of water and 2.y 2 cups of milk ; add to cooked carrots 
and boil. 

White Sauce 

3 cups milk or milk and 3 tablespoons dripping or oleo 
water, mixed i l /2 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons flour 

Stir the flour in hot drippings or oleo, add milk gradually, 
boil, stirring constantly until smooth and thick. 



WINTER MEALS 

Toast Tea 

i cup toast crumbs 4 cups boiling water 

Roll toast left from breakfast with a rolling pin, add 
boiling water to the crumbs, stir until partly dissolved. 
Serve hot with sugar and milk. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash and pare carrots and put them on to cook 34 hour 
before meal time; prepare toast crumbs; set table; add 
dressing to carrots ; make toast tea and tea. 

Tuesday DINNER 

NAVY BEANS WITH SHANK OF SALT PORK 

TOMATO CATSUP 

CORN BREAD STEWED APRICOTS AND PEACHES 

COFFEE MILK 

Beans Boiled with Meat 

3 cups navy beans 2 pounds shank salt pork 

Pick over and wash the beans ; wash meat carefully and 
remove skin and part of fat. (This fat can be fried out 
by cutting up and heating in a dish in the oven and used for 
drippings.) Add meat to the beans, cover well with boiling 
water, cook slowly 4 or 5 hours, adding more water if nec- 
essary until both meat and beans are tender. This may be 
done in a fireless cooker. 

There will be enough beans left from this amount for 
lunch on the following day. 

Southern Corn Bread 

3 cups corn meal (prefer- i teaspoon salt 

ably white) i egg 

iY 2 cup thick sour milk 3 tablespoons melted drippings 

y^ teaspoon cooking soda 

Beat egg in mixing bowl, add milk, sift in meal with soda 
and salt, and add melted fat. Beat quickly until well 
mixed, pour into hot, well-greased pan and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven. Cut in squares and serve hot. Egg may 
be omitted. 

If sweetened corn bread is preferred, use yellow corn 
meal and add 3 tablespoons sugar. 

Flour may be used in place of one of the cups of corn 
meal. 



72 LOW COST COOKING 

Dried Apricots and Peaches 

y 2 pound apricots J4 pound peaches 

Wash the fruit, soak over night in cold water, cook slowly 
in same water until tender. Add sugar to taste, about y 2 
cup. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start beans and meat cooking while lunch is being pre- 
pared. Let dried fruit be cooking at the same time, and 
set aside to cool when done. Half an hour before meal time 
make corn bread and put in to bake. Twenty minutes be- 
fore meal time make the coffee, set the table, then serve 
the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

FRIED BACON STRIP TOAST 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Mush 

i l / 2 cups graham flour 4 cups boiling water 

I cup cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix the flour with the cold water to prevent it from 
lumping when added to the boiling water. Pour this mix- 
ture into the boiling salted water, stirring all the while. 
Boil 5 minutes, set in a larger pan of boiling water and 
continue cooking y 2 to I hour ; or leave closely covered over 
night on the back of the stove, or in a nreless cooker. 

Preparing the Meal 

The graham mush should be started the night before. 
About y 2 hour before breakfast time put it on to reheat. 
Make coffee, set the table, fry bacon and make the toast. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Wednesday 

BEAN POLENTA 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

HOT STEWED DRIED APPLES 

TEA FOR ADULTS CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 



WINTER MEALS 



73 



Bean Polenta 

4 cups white beans (cooked) Y^. teaspoon mustard 
i l / 2 tablespoons molasses ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons vinegar 

Drain the water from cold boiled beans, mash them fine, 
and mix with the other ingredients. Form the mixture into 
cakes and brown on both sides in hot greased pan. 

Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups scalded milk 3 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups boiling water % teaspoon cinnamon 

Add the boiling water to the scalded milk and sugar just 
before serving. Sprinkle the cinnamon over the top. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash the dried apples and put them to soak the night 
before. About an hour before meal time put them on to 
cook in the same water. One-half hour before meal time 
make the polenta, using the beans left from dinner the day 
before, and put the cakes on to brown. While they are 
browning put the milk on to heat for the cinnamon tea and 
set the table. When the polenta is done make the tea and 
the cinnamon tea. 
Wednesday DINNER 

STEW WITH VEGETABLES 

BREAD 
SUET PUDDING 

Stew with Vegetables 

l l /2 to 2 pounds stew meat i onion 

2 carrots 2 sprigs parsley 

2 turnips i tablespoon salt 

4 to 6 potatoes ^ teaspoon pepper 

Neck or breast of lamb or veal or inexpensive cuts of 
beef may be used. Have the butcher cut the pieces of meat 
rather small. Put them into the kettle in which the stew is 
to be cooked and place over a hot fire, stirring occasionally 
until the outside is well browned. Cover with hot water 
and cook slowly, without boiling, until the meat is tender. 
Add the vegetables pared and cut into pieces, during the 
last hour of cooking. Thicken the gravy with two table- 
spoons of flour, mixed with a little cold water, just before 
serving. 



74 LOW COST COOKING 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups bread crumbs l /\. teaspoon salt 

I cup finely chopped suet Grating of nutmeg 
i cup sugar i cup milk or water 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan, or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, 
and set in a larger kettle of boiling \vater. Cook about an 
hour. 

For boiling, tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 2 l / 2 to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way as 
cake. 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces, or as a cake with- 
out sauce. 

One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pudding, or 
a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be added 
to give variety. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 hours before meal time put the meat for the 
stew on to cook; add the vegetables to the stew, make 
the suet pudding; while it is cooking, make the coffee and 
set the table. Serve the stew on a large platter with the 
meat piled in the center and the pieces of vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. Serve the pudding, like cake, cut in 
squares without sauce. 

Extra Baking 

Just before starting lunch mix the bread and set it to 
rise. It will be ready for the second kneading after lunch 
is over. Make rolls from part of the bread dough. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 yeast cakes stirred into l /> cup 

2 tablespoons sugar of lukewarm water 
2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and 
about 5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining 
flour and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and 
knead until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased 



WINTER MEALS 75 

pan, greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean 
cloth. Place where it will keep at a warm, even tempera- 
ture. When the dough has raised to double its size, which 
will be in about \}/ 2 hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the common 
bakers' loaf, which weighs 12 ounces. This recipe will make 
eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 
or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooling. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour 2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

l /3 cup sugar or molasses I tablespoon salt 

i yeast cake dissolved in l / cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread. If caraway seeds are desired add one 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

Roll bread dough to y 2 inch thick at second kneading; 
spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, roll 
into a long roll, cut into ^ inch slices ; grease these on the 
outside, place in baking pan. When they have risen to twice 
their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 

At the second kneading roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of y 2 inch and spread with a l /4 inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 



76 LOW COST COOKING 

inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold the dough so that there 
will be a layer of prunes between two layers of dough, grease 
the outside, place in a greased pan, allow them to rise to 
twice their size, bake. 

Coffee Cake 

i cup hot milk Yz cup sugar ^ 

Yz cup lard i teaspoon salt 

Yz yeast cake dissolved in J4 CU P lukewarm water 

Add hot milk with lard and salt ; when lukewarm, add 
dissolved yeast, flour enough to make the stiff batter about 
three cups cover dish and let the batter rise, then spread in 
a well greased pan, sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise, 
bake. If raisins are desired add y 2 cup just before putting 
into baking pan. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday 

RYE MUFFINS 

FRIED SALT PORK WITH MILK GRAVY 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rye Muffins 

1^2 cups rye flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

i l /2 cups white flour 6 teaspoons baking powder 

i l /2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons drippings 
1/^2 cup milk or water 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add liquid and melted drip- 
pings and beat. Put quickly into heated, greased muffin 
pan and bake about 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Fried Salt Pork with Milk Gravy 
Cut the pork in very thin slices and fry in a hot pan until 
crisp and brown. Take out pork, pour off all but 3 table- 
spoons of the drippings, and into this rub 2 tablespoons 
flour. Add I cup of water slowly, boil well, add a cup 
of milk. Cut the fried pork in l / 2 inch pieces and mix with 
the gravy. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water on to boil for coffee ; make the muffins. While 
they are baking make the coffee, set the table, fry the pork 
and make the gravy. 



WINTER MEALS 77 

Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

PUREE (THICK SOUP) OF LIMA BEANS 
TOASTED MUFFINS 

BAKED BANANA 
TEA FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Puree of Lima Beans 

4 cups cooked lima beans 2 slices fat pork 
2 cups water i tablespoon flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

For additional flavoring, if desired, use I tablespoon each 
of onion, parsley or celery, chopped fine. Fry pork until 
crisp and brown, break or cut it into small bits, stir the flour 
into the drippings and pork, and if onion or celery is used 
add this at the same time and cook for a few minutes. Add 
water and boil, mash the beans fine, and add them. If the 
whole is too thick, add more water. The soup may be made 
more nutritious by using milk instead of water. 

Baked Banana 

Baked banana is more easily digested than raw. Peel 
the bananas, cut lengthwise into halves, place in baking pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven for about 15 minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

The lemon juice may be omitted and the bananas served 
with milk and sugar. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash and soak beans over night, put on to cook ^at 
breakfast time and cook slowly until tender. Twenty min- 
utes before meal time, put muffins left over from breakfast, 
and any other scraps of bread, in the oven to toast. Pre- 
pare bananas and put in to bake. Make the soup, set the 
table, and make the tea. 

Thursday DINNER 

FLANK STEAK BRAISED WITH VEGETABLES 
BROWNED PARSNIPS 

STEWED FIGS 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Flank Steak Braised with Vegetables 
Have the butcher score the steak when it is bought, or, 
better still, beat it well with a hammer. Dredge well with 



LOW COST COOKING 

flour and lay in baking pan. Over it place a thick layer of 
thinly sliced raw potatoes, then a layer of thinly sliced 
onion. Pour over this 2 cups of stewed tomatoes, cover 
closely and cook slowly in oven 2^/2 to 3 hours. One-half 
hour before the meat is done, remove the cover. Add 
water as necessary, and leave it to cook uncovered. In 
serving, place it whole on a platter and cut down as through 
a loaf. 

Browned Parsnips 

Pare parsnips, cut in halves, and cook in boiling, salted 
water until tender. Cut lengthwise into slices y 2 inch thick, 
brown in a hot, greased pan, or in the oven with baking 
meat. They may be served plain boiled and if any are 
left over they may be browned at the next serving. 

Stewed Figs 

Use dried figs that are not pressed. They are usually sold 
for cooking at 10 to 12 cents per pound. Wash carefully 
and soak over night, or for several hours. Cook slowly in 
the same water until tender. Add sugar if desired. 

Preparing the Meal 

After breakfast wash y 2 pound cooking figs and put to 
soak. Three hours before meal time prepare the steak and 
put it in to bake ; 1^2 hours before prepare the parsnips and 
start them to boil, and put figs on to cook ; y 2 hour before 
lay the parsnips cut in slices in the pan to brown. Make 
the coffee, set the table. 

The parsnips might be omitted from this dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday 

FRIED HOMINY MUSH WITH BROWN SUGAR SYRUP 

TOAST 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Hominy Mush 

Pour one part hominy slowly into four parts boiling, 
salted water, stir till it thickens and then cook slowly in a 
double boiler for 3 hours or more, or over night in a fire- 
less cooker. 

Pour boiled hominy into a deep, greased pan until it is 



WINTER MEALS 



79 



3 inches or more in depth. The next day turn the mixture 
out of the pan, slice in y 2 inch slices and brown both sides 
in hot, greased pan. 

Brown Sugar Syrup 

Melt 2 cups of brown sugar with i cup hot water; boil 
5 minutes and cool. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start 2 cups of hominy to cook as a mush the day before 
while lunch is being prepared. Let it cook all afternoon 
and pour the part for breakfast into the pan and leave over- 
night in a cold place. Set the rest aside to bake with 
cheese on Saturday. The next morning make the coffee, 
start to fry the mush, and while it is cooking make the 
syrup and set the table. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Friday 

RICE SOUP WITH CROUTONS 
RICE AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Rice Soup 

3 cups rice water I tablespoon chopped onion 

2 cups carrots I tablespoon chopped celery 

2 tablespoons drippings. 1 tablespoon flour 

Scrape the carrots, cut in small pieces and cook until ten- 
der. Heat the drippings, add the onions and celery to it 
and cook them 5 minutes without browning. Stir in the 
flour, add this mixture to the carrots, add the rice water with 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread into small cubes or in strips 2 inches wide, 
y^ inches thick, or in any fancy shapes desired. Dry in a 
slow oven until crisp and light brown all the way through. 

Rice and Corn Meal Muffins 

i cup cooked rice 5 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup flour i l /4 cups liquid 

i teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons melted drippings 
i cup corn meal 

Mix and sift dry ingredients together, add rice to liquid 
ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and put 



8o LOW COST COOKING 

quickly into hot, greased muffin pans. Bake about 20 min- 
utes in a moderately hot oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

A half hour before meal time put 2 cups of rice on to 
boil. Use the rice for the scalloped fish for dinner and 
for the muffins, and the rice water for the soup. Prepare 
the carrots and put them on to cook. Cut the croutons into 
24 inch cubes and put them in the oven to brown. Make the 
muffins and while they are baking, set the table. Finish 
the soup and serve with the croutons sprinkled over the 
top of each bowl. 

,, . , DINNER 

Friday 

SCALLOPED SALT FISH 

BOILED BEETS 

HOT GINGERBREAD 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Scalloped Salt Fish 

1^2 cups salt fish 2 cups thin white sauce 

3 cups boiled rice 

Shred the salt fish and soak in luke warm water for about 
an hour, or until the pieces are softened. Fill a baking 
dish with alternate layers of the fish and boiled rice which 
has been mixed with the white sauce. Cover with bread 
crumbs and bake until hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Gingerbread 

2 cups flour Y-2 cup molasses 

Y-2. cup sugar */3 cup hot water 

1 teaspoon ginger 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

2 teaspoons baking powder pings 

y-2. teaspoon soda Yz teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to the molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Boiled Beets 

Wash the beets without breaking the skin and boil for 
3 hours or until tender. Drop in cold water and rub off 
the skins, slice, season with salt and oleo and serve hot. 



WINTER MEALS 8 1 

Or the sliced beets may be soaked for an hour or two 
in weak vinegar and used as PICKLED BEETS. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the beets to cooking at breakfast time if wanted 
pickled, otherwise later. At ^4 hour before meal time make 
the gingerbread, prepare the scalloped fish and put in oven. 
While these are baking make the coffee, skin and slice 
the beets and set the table. 

Saturday BREAKFAST 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Corn Meal Mush 

1/^2 cups corn meal 6 cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Sift the corn meal slowly into the boiling, salted water, 
stirring constantly to prevent it from lumping. After boil- 
ing 10 minutes, place the kettle in a larger pan of boilin^ 
water or in a fireless cooker to cook over night. 

Date and Prune Jam 

i pound prunes i pound dates 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, cleaned and 
stoned. Cook mixture until thick. In the same way prunes 
may be combined with figs, and figs with dates ; add a little 
lemon juice for the flavor. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the jam the day before, while preparing lunch. 
Start the corn meal to cooking the night before. In the 
morning set on stove to reheat J/ hour before breakfast 
time. Start the coffee, make the toast, set the table. Serve 
the mush in cereal bowls with sugar and the top half of 
the bottle of milk. 

Saturday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

HOMINY BAKED WITH CHEESE 

STEWED RAISINS 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 



82 LOW COST COOKING 

Hominy Baked with Cheese 

Put alternate layers of boiled hominy and grated cheese 
in baking dish. Add enough milk, thin white sauce or 
water to moisten. Cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Stewed Raisins 

Wash black, seedless raisins and soak over night. Cook 
slowly in the same water until tender. Add sugar if de- 
sired. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put raisins to soak the night before and cook during 
breakfast. One-half hour before lunch time prepare the 
hominy using that left from breakfast the day before and 
put in the oven to bake. While it is baking, set the table 
and make the tea. 

c , DINNER 

Saturday 

CORN BEEF WITH VEGETABLES 
BAKED POTATOES 

APPLE SAUCE 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Corn Beef with Vegetables 

2 Ibs. brisket of corn beef ^ Ib. turnips 
y* Ib. cabbage I Ib. carrots 

T/Z Ib. rutabaga i onion 

Wipe the meat, cover with cold water and bring slowly 
to the boiling point. After boiling 5 minutes remove the 
scum and continue cooking just below the boiling point for 
about 3 hours. When the meat is tender, remove it and 
cook the vegetables in the water. Cut these in uniform size 
and cook them until tender. If small, the carrots may be 
cut in halves, if large in quarters, and other vegetables in 
similar size. Cabbage should be added about 10 minutes 
later than the others. Serve the meat on a large platter 
surrounded by the vegetables. Almost any other vegetables, 
beets, peas, etc., may be used instead of part of those named. 

Apple Sauce 

Wash 6 sour apples and cut into eighths with skins on. 
Remove core, and decayed spots. Cover with hot water and 



WINTER MEALS 83 

cook slowly until tender. Remove from fire and add about 
y 2 cup sugar, or to taste. Serve either hot or cold, but not 
hike warm. 

Preparing the Meal 

Four or five hours before meal time put the meat on to 
cook ; i hour before wash 6 medium sized potatoes and lay 
them in the oven to bake. Wash and pare the vegetables, 
remove the meat from the kettle, laying it in the warming 
oven to keep warm. While the vegetables are cooking make 
the apple sauce and the coffee and set the table. 

If more convenient the potatoes may be pared and quar- 
tered and cooked with the other vegetables. 

Extra Baking 

Make bread in the morning so that it will be ready to bake 
late in the afternoon when the corned beef is cooking. After 
the dishes from the noon meal are washed, make and bake 
the oatmeal cookies for Sunday. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1/2 cup flour 2 tablespoons oleo 

I cup sugar i pinch of salt 

i egg 3 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg beaten, and milk. Drop by 
teaspoonfuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

. BREAKFAST 

Sunday 

GRAHAM BISCUITS WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

SCRAMBLED EGG 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Biscuits 

i l / 2 cups graham flour i cup liquid 

i l /2 cups white flour 3 tablespoons lard or crisco 

i l /2 teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly 
through by cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly 
with the fingers. Add the liquid, mixing with a knife. 
Turn the mixture on floured bread board. Roll or pat to y 2 
inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 15 to 20 minutes 
in a hot oven. 



84 LOW COST COOKING 

Scrambled Egg 

Beat 4 eggs light, add ^ teaspoon baking powder, I 
teaspoon salt, pepper to taste, and beat again. Boil */2 cup 
milk or milk and water mixed with i tablespoon flour in the 
frying pan. Cool a little and add the eggs. Stir the mix- 
ture constantly over a very low fire until the eggs are 
cooked but not tough. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the biscuits and leave them standing in the baking 
pan until about 20 minutes before time for breakfast. This 
may be done the night before in cold weather if each bis- 
cuit is brushed over with melted fat to prevent a crust 
from forming and the pan is closely covered to keep out 
dust and germs. Make the coffee, put the biscuits in oven 
and scramble the eggs. In serving the biscuits, take out 
only enough for once around, leaving the others in oven 
to keep hot. 

e , LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Sunday 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 
OATMEAL COOKIES BLACK OLIVES 

COCOA 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Place alternate layer of bread crumbs and canned or ripe 
tomatoes and seasoning of salt and pepper in baking dish 
with crumbs on top. If desired add an onion finely chopped 
to the tomatoes. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

One-half hour before meal time, prepare the tomatoes 
and put them in the oven. While they are heating make 
the cocoa and set the table. Serve the cookies made on 
Saturday. 

c , DINNER 

Sunday 

MEAT LOAF WITH BROWNED POTATOES 

CREAMED RUTABAGA CABBAGE SALAD 

BAKED APPLES WITH RAISINS 

COFFEE MILK 



WINTER MEALS 85 

Meat Loaf 

1 pound chopped meat i cup thick white sauce 

2 cups bread crumbs Flavor with salt and pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly together, form into loaf and 
bake in moderate oven for two hours. One tablespoon 
minced onion may be added if desired. 

Thick White Sauce 

i cup liquid 2 tablespoons drippings 

2 l /2 tablespoons flour l / 2 tablespoon salt 

Add liquid slowly to flour, stirring to make a smooth 
paste. Pour into drippings and boil, stirring constantly 
until thick and smooth. 

Creamed Rutabaga 

Wash and pare the rutabaga and cut in pieces about ^J 
inch square and y 2 inch long. Cook in boiling, salted water 
until tender. Evaporate the water by leaving kettle uncov- 
ered on fire. Add 3 cups of thin white sauce made sepa- 
rately, or stir 3 tablespoons of flour into y 2 cup water and 
add this with 2 T / 2 cups of milk and water to the vegetables 
and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

Cabbage Salad 

Shave the cabbage fine and add salt and pepper. Cut 
two thin slices of bacon into small pieces and fry till brown. 
While very hot pour over the cabbage. Add a little vinegar. 

Baked Apple with Raisins 

Remove the core from 6 medium sized apples. Put 
them in baking dish, fill the cavity with sugar and seedless 
raisins, add *4 CU P water and bake in a moderate oven until 
the apples are soft. 

Preparing the Meal 

Two hours before meal time prepare the meat loaf and 
put in oven ; i hour before pare 6 medium sized potatoes 
cut in halves and lay in the pan with the meat. Prepare the 
apples and start them to baking. Put the rutabaga on and 
while it is cooking, make the cabbage salad and the coffee, 
set the table, finish the rutabaga. Serve the loaf whole with 
the potatoes arranged on the platter around it. 



SUMMER MEALS 



Monday BREAKFAST 

POTATO CAKES 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

COFFEE MILK 

Potato Cakes 

Mix left over mashed potatoes with such scraps of meat, 
dressing and gravy as may be on hand. Add bread crumbs 
as necessary to make the mixture stiff enough to form into 
cakes. Brown cakes on both sides in hot greased pan. 

If no meat is on hand omit or use a little bacon or salt 
pork. 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Wash and peel 8 large stalks of rhubarb. Cut into J/ 
inch pieces, and add almost enough cold water to cover. 
Boil gently until the pieces are tender but still whole. Add 
sugar to, taste and set aside to cool. Part of this juice 
may be poured off to make a fruit drink and the remainder 
served with the sauce. 

There will be sauce enough for breakfast and to serve 
with rice for Tuesday's dinner. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make potato cakes and put them on to brown. Make 
enough coffee for dinner as well as for breakfast, and 
as soon as the last cup to be used hot is poured, pour the 
remainder off of the grounds and set aside to cool. This 
is to be used for iced coffee in the evening. Rhubarb 
sauce should be made the day before and served cold. Make 
the toast and set the table. 

Monday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

RICE AND CHEESE RAREBIT ON TOAST 

APPLE SAUCE 
MILK FOR CHILDREN TEA FOR ADULTS 

86 



SUMMER MEALS 87 

Rice and Cheese Rarebit 

24 cup of rice 2 tablespoons flour 

l /4 cup of cheese i l /2 teaspoons salt 

l l /2 cups of milk J4 teaspoon pepper 

Boil rice in plenty of water. When cooked tender add 
milk and the flour mixed with ^4 CU P of water. Allow 
this to boil, add salt and pepper, and when it again reaches 
boiling point, remove from the fire and add cheese chopped 
fine. Stir cheese through the hot mixture until it melts 
and serve on toast. 

Apple Sauce 

Wash and quarter 6 summer apples and remove cores. 
Cover with hot water and cook slowly until apples are 
tender, but do not lose shape. Add y 2 cup sugar just 
before removing from fire. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the apple sauce just after the breakfast is over and 
set away to cool ; y 2 hour before meal time put the rice on 
to cook, Set the table, finish the rarebit and make the tea. 

Monday DINNER 

HAMBURGER STEAK WITH TOMATOES 

RICED POTATOES 

HASHED KOHLRABI 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

ICED COFFEE MILK 

Hamburger Steak with Tomatoes 

1^/4 pounds chopped beef Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan to brown, stirring con- 
stantly. When part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, 
cover closely and continue cooking on low fire until done. 
Use fresh tomatoes if cheaper. 

Riced Potatoes 

Press plain boiled potatoes, hot, through ricer, letting 
them fall into dish in which they will be served. A potato 
ricer is a great convenience and may be bought for from 
25 cents to 50 cents. 

Hashed Kohlrabi 

Pare kohlrabi, cut into quarters and cook until tender 



LOW COST COOKING 

in boiling salted water. Evaporate water, chop fine and 
add 3 tablespoons of drippings. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the potatoes and kohlrabi and put them on to 
cook one-half hour before the meal time. Prepare the 
hamburger steak. Set the table and add ice to the coffee, 
or if without ice put into a clean milk bottle and place in a 
pan under cold running water. Hash the kohlrabi, rice the 
potatoes and serve the meal. (Use oatmeal cookies made on 
the last baking day, see page 83.) 

Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OATMEAL WITH TOP MILK 

FRUIT TOAST 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fruit Toast 

Use 6 slices of toast with 2 cups of stewed fruit. Fruit, 
such as plums, berries, cherries, rhubarb, etc., stewed with 
plenty of water, may be used. Pour it over the freshly 
toasted bread. It may be served hot or cold. 
Preparing the Meal 

Set the oatmeal on the fire to reheat after cooking over 
night. Make stewed fruit by boiling 1/2 dozen plums or 
other fruit in plenty of water. Make the coffee and the 
toast. 
Tuesday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

SPLIT PEAS WITH CARROTS 

PRUNE ROLLS 

TEA MILK 

Split Peas with Carrots 

Use 3 cups split peas, cooked, and 3 cups of boiled car- 
rots. Mash the peas fine and add salt and pepper to taste. 
Add carrots, cut in small pieces, and J/ cup of milk. Re- 
heat and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2 cups of peas over night and start them to cook 
2 hours before meal time. This will make enough for 



SUMMER MEALS 



89 



lunch croquettes on Wednesday also. Wash and scrape 
carrots and cut in y 2 inch cubes. Cook in boiling, salted 
water for y 2 hour before meal time. Set the table and add 
mashed peas to carrots. Make tea enough for this meal 
and for iced tea for dinner. As soon as the hot tea is 
poured, pour off the remainder and set aside to cool. Use 
prune rolls made on the last baking day. 

Tuesday . DINNER 

POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES 

STEAMED RICE WITH STEWED CHERRIES 

ICED TEA FRUIT DRINK FOR CHILDREN 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 Ibs. meat 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 cups carrots 2 cups parsnips 

2 cups rutabagas i onion 

Choose a piece of meat with some bone and a little fat, 
such as pork or beef shoulder, or brisket. Brown the meat 
well on all sides in a hot kettle, with a bit of fat. Add 2 
cups of water, cover closely and cook slowly for about 
4 hours, adding water as necessary. The last three-quarters 
of an hour add the vegetables, pared and cut in pieces. 
Serve the meat whole on the platter with vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. 

Steamed Rice 

i cup rice iH teaspoon salt 

3 cups boiling water 

Wash rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is clean. Add 
rice to boiling water and boil for 5 minutes. Place stew- 
pan, closely covered, in larger kettle of boiling water and 
steam for 50 minutes. 

Steamed Rice with Stewed Cherries 

Use i box of cherries to 3 cups of steamed rice. Wash 
and stone the cherries, cover with water and cook until 
tender. Add sugar to taste. Pour ^J cup of fruit over 
each dessert dish of rice. 

Preparing the Meal 

Four hours before meal time put the pot roast on to 



90 LOW COST COOKING 

cook. If a 3-pound piece is used, enough will be left for 
croquettes on Wednesday. Put rice on to steam, and while 
it is cooking, stew the cherries and set them aside to cool. 
As soon as the rice is done set it in a cool place. There 
will be enough of it for the griddle cakes on Wednesday as 
well as for the dessert. 

Three-quarters of an hour before meal time prepare the 
vegetables and add them to the meat. Set the table, make 
the fruit drink for the children by adding a little of the 
cherry juice and 2 cups water to the rhubarb juice left from 
Monday. Ice the tea for the adults. Finish preparing the 
dessert. Serve meat on platter with vegetables around it. 

Wednesday BREAKFAST 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 
FRIED BACON STRIPS 

BANANAS 
COFFEE MILK 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

y$ cup boiled rice 2 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

i l /4 cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons sugar 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add rice to the liquid ingre- 
dients. An egg may be added. Combine with the dry and 
beat well. Cook by tablespoonfuls the same as other griddle 
cakes. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the griddle cakes and start the first griddle full 
cooking. Make the coffee, slice and fry the bacon, and 
set the table, attending to the cooking of the cakes at the 
same time. And when they are finished serve the breakfast. 

Extra Baking 

Before starting to cook the noon meal mix the bread 
and set it to rise. It will be ready for the second kneading 
soon after lunch, and can be baked before time for the 
evening meal. Make cinnamon rolls as well as bread. If 
coal or wood fire is used, plan to keep the top of the stove 
full while fire is going. Leave no empty space in the oven 
w r hile it is hot. 



SUMMER MEALS 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Wednesday 

SPLIT PEA LOAF 

SLICED TOMATOES 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA MILK 

Split Pea Loaf 

4 cups split peas, cooked i beaten egg 

2 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon minced onion 

i tablespoon minced parsley, celery, or other flavoring as 
desired. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix all the ingredients together. If too soft to hold its 
shape add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water 
or another egg. Form into loaf, lay over it thin slices of salt 
pork or bacon. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Use split peas cooked on Tuesday. A half hour before 
meal time make loaf and put in oven to brown. Slice the 
tomatoes. Set the table and make the tea. 

Txr DINNER 

Wednesday 

BAKED CROQUETTES BAKED POTATOES 

HOT CINNAMON ROLLS 

BANANAS WITH LEMON JUICE 

LEMONADE 

Baked Croquettes 

3 cups chopped meat i teaspoon onion juice 
3 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon salt 

2 cups thick white sauce Pepper to taste 

Make a white sauce by stirring y 2 cup flour into ^ cup 
melted fat, cook till frothy, then add slowly 2 cups milk or 
water, or the two mixed, stirring all the time, and cook 
again till thick, stirring till smooth. 

Add cooked meat beef, mutton, veal or pork and bread 
crumbs. Mix well, form into croquettes about 3 inches 
long, lay them in greased pan, and set in hot oven to brown. 

Bananas with Lemon Juice 

Slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with brown sugar and lemon 
juice. 



LOW COST COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

Put six potatoes for dinner and four for tomorrow's lunch 
in oven one hour before meal time, while bread is still 
baking. Croquettes and cinnamon rolls (see page 16) may 
be baked together about y 2 hour before meal time. Set the 
table, prepare the bananas and lemonade. 

Thursday BREAKFAST 

FARINA MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

CINNAMON ROLLS (BAKING POWDER) 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Farina Mush 

Use 24 CU P of farina to 4 cups boiling salted water. Make 
the same as other cereal mush. Cook y 2 to I hour. 

Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2. cups flour 24 cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder J4 cup oleo 

i/z teaspoon salt Yz cup sugar 

2, tablespoons fat 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work the fat in with the tips of the fingers, add the milk 
or water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet 
y 2 inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing bowl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into l / 2 inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put on water to boil for cereal and coffee ; while the 
farina is cooking make and bake the cinnamon rolls, make 
the coffee and set the table. 

Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAMED POTATOES AND BEETS 

LETTUCE WITH FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

BUTTERMILK 

Creamed Potatoes and Beets 
Use 2 cups boiled potatoes, 2 cups boiled beets and 2 cups 



SUMMER MEALS 



93 



thin white sauce. Cut the potatoes and beets in ^2 -inch 
cubes. Reheat in white sauce made separately ; or, add 2 
tablespoons flour mixed with y 2 cup cold water and iJ/ cups 
milk to the vegetables and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

French Salad Dressing 

Mix three parts olive, peanut or salad oil with one part 
lemon juice or vinegar; add pepper and salt to taste. 

Preparing the Meal 

Several hours before meal time wash carefully 2 bunches 
of lettuce and lay it on ice or in a cool place so that it may 
be crisp when time to serve. Wash 6 beets and start them 
to cook at breakfast time. When cooked tender remove 
from fire. One-half hour before meal time, peel part of the 
beets, leaving the rest for Friday's salad. Skin the cold 
baked potatoes cooked Wednesday and cut both in y 2 -inch 
cubes. Make the white sauce, add the vegetables and reheat. 
Set the table and mix the salad dressing. 

Thursday DINNER , 

FRIED CALVES' HEARTS WITH BROWN GRAVY 

MASHED POTATOES 

LETTUCE AND GREEN ONION SALAD 

COFFEE MILK 

Fried Calves Hearts 

i}/2 pound hearts, sliced lengthwise, in ^-inch slices. Soak 
in cold salt water for i J/ hours, roll in flour or bread crumbs 
and brown both sides in hot suet fat, cover pan and cook 
on very slow fire until tender. Use beef heart the same way. 

Brown Gravy 

3 tablespoons drippings 2 cups water, or water and 

3 tablespoons flour milk mixed 

Add flour to hot drippings and let it brown. Add liquid 
gradually, stirring constantly until a smooth mixture is 
obtained, and boil 3 minutes. 

Lettuce and Green Onion Salad 

Wash and trim the tops of the onions. Serve them on 
lettuce leaves with French dressing. 



94 LOW COST COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

One and one-half hours before meal time put the calves' 
hearts to soak. Prepare the potatoes and put them on to 
cook y 2 hour before meal time. Brown the hearts and while 
they are cooking make the coffee, set the table, dress the 
salad and mash the potatoes. 
Friday BREAKFAST 

CRACKED WHEAT 

CODDLED EGGS TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Coddled Eggs 

Put 6 eggs in stewpan with enough cold water to cover. 
Cook on low fire until boiling point is reached. 

Preparing the Meal 

Cracked wheat should be started to cook the night before. 
Set on to reheat, make the coffee, put on the eggs. While 
they are cooking, make the cocoa, making six extra cups 
to serve cold at dinner. Set the table, make the toast. 

Friday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAM OF NAVY BEAN SOUP 
LETTUCE WITH CHEESE AND FRENCH DRESSING 

Cream of Navy Bean Soup 

2 cups cooked navy beans 3 tablespoons drippings 
i l /2 cups milk 3 tablespoons flour 

1^2 cups water i tablespoon minced onion 

Minced celery, etc., as desired for flavoring 

Stir the flour, onion and other flavorings in hot drippings 
until they are browned. Add water and boil. Mash the 
beans fine or put through a sieve or colander. Add salt 
and pepper to taste. When hot it is ready to serve. 

Lettuce with Cheese and French Dressing 

Mix the French dressing, add 3 tablespoons grated cheese. 
Stir and add to the lettuce. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2y 2 cups beans over night for soup and for Satur- 
day's lunch. Start them to cook about 2 hours before 
meal time. Wash and drain the lettuce and leave in ice 



SUMMER MEALS 



95 



box to get crisp. If there is no ice box, put the lettuce in a 
tin pail with a tight cover in a cool place or under running 
water. One-half hour before meal time set the table, make 
the soup and dress the salad. 

DINNER 
Friday 

SALT CODFISH HASH 

BEET SALAD 
CUP CAKES COLD COCOA 

Salted Codfish Hash 

i l A cups salt codfish 3 cups potatoes 

Wash and pare the potatoes and cut them in uniform 
size. Pick salt cod in small pieces and drop the potatoes 
and fish into boiling water. Boil until the potatoes are soft. 
Drain, mash thoroughly and put into a hot greased frying 
pan until well browned on under side. Serve with one-half 
folded on top of the other like an omelet. 

Beet Salad 

Cut boiled beets in y 2 -mch cubes. Mix with boiled salad 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole egg 
Yz cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour J4 teaspoon pepper 

*/s .teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with part of milk, add re- 
maining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back of 
stove, add egg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the egg. 
When cool, add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix 
thoroughly. 

Quick Cup Cakes 

Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
i l /2 cups of flour, y cup of fine granulated sugar, 2 level 
teaspoons of baking powder, J/ teaspoon of salt. Sift in 
the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt *4 cup oleo or crisco or lard, 
break in i or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add ^2 
teaspoon flavoring extract or *4 teaspoon of spice. Mix 



96 LOW COST COOKING 

with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For CHOCOLATE CAKE add 2 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash enough beets for salad and for lunch on Saturday. 
Cut off the tops and save them to cook for greens. Cook 
the beets immediately after breakfast, so they will be cold 
when needed. Prepare the codfish and potatoes and put 
them on to cook ^4 hour before meal time. Make the cakes 
and while they are baking set the table, make the salad, 
brown the codfish hash. Use cocoa left from breakfast. 

, , BREAKFAST 

Saturday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 
CREAM TOAST COFFEE 

Cream Toast 

6 slices toast 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups milk i egg 

2 tablespoons flour y 2 cup water 

Mix the sugar and flour in stewpan, add water and stir 
until smooth. Add I cup milk and boil until thick. Add 
remaining milk, heat to boiling point and remove from fire. 
Add a beaten egg to the hot sauce, stirring it well through 
the mixture. Pour over hot toast and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat graham mush which was started to cook the night 
before. Make the toast, start the coffee and make the sauce 
for toast. Set the table and finish the toast and coffee. 

Extra Baking 

Mix the bread about the same time as on Wednesday, 
planning to have it baked about the time the evening meal 
is served. 

Make plain rolls for this meal and sugar rolls for Sunday 
breakfast. Mix the spice cake for Sunday J^ hour before 
the bread is ready to bake, and bake it first, as it requires 
a cooler oven than the bread. Cook the plums for Sunday 
lunch while bread is baking. 



SUMMER MEALS 97 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Saturday 

PUREE OF BEANS AND TOMATOES 
RHUBARB MARMALADE 

Boiled Beans and Tomatoes 

3 cups cooked navy beans 2 tablespoons drippings 

i cup canned tomatoes I tablespoon minced onion 

i tablespoon minced parsley or celery if desired 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Add tomatoes to beans and boil l /2 hour. Cook onions 
and other seasonings in the drippings, add to the beans. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

$y 2 pounds rhubarb 3 pounds (6 cups) sugar 

2 lemons 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into J^-inch pieces. With a sharp knife pare 
off, very thin, the colored part of the lemon and orange 
peel. Then cut this into small pieces and add to the 
rhubarb. Remove remaining peel of the oranges and lemons, 
divide into sections ; add this to mixture and cook, boiling 
YZ hour; add sugar and boil very slowly i l /2 hours longer. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make rhubarb marmalade after breakfast is over and 
put away in sealed jars the part not to be used at once. 
One-half hour before meal time start the beans and toma- 
toes and while they are cooking set the table, prepare the 
seasoning and add it to the beans. 

DINNER 
Saturday 

LAMB STEW BOILED RICE 

BEET GREENS 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

i}/2 pounds lamb or mutton 2 cups carrots 

Use lamb or mutton from shoulder, cut into small pieces. 
Cover with cold water and cook slowly without boiling for 
4 to 6 hours. Three-quarters of an hour before meal time 
add carrots, pared and cut into ^-inch pieces. When done 
thicken the gravy with 2 tablespoons flour. Serve on large 
platter with a border of boiled or steamed rice. 



98 LOW COST COOKING 

Beet Greens 

Wash greens carefully. Cook I hour or more, until 
tender, in boiling salted water. Season with pepper and 
drippings. 

Preparing the Meal 

Three hours before meal time put the lamb on to stew, 
using 3 pounds of the meat, so that enough may be left 
over for Turkish Pilaf on Sunday. Put greens on. Wash 
and pare carrots and cut in long, narrow strips. One-half 
hour before meal time add them to the stew. Wash \y 2 
cups of rice and put on to boil. This will make enough for 
Sunday also. Make the coffee and set the table. 

Set aside the meat for Sunday, and thicken the gravy. 
Evaporate the water from the rice and season the greens 
and serve. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday 

FRIED BACON WITH EGG 

TOAST FRESH PEACHES 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Bacon with Egg 

Fry the bacon. Break eggs and drop them whole into the 
hot fat. Cook on low fire without turning. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the coffee and toast, put milk on to heat. Set the 
table. Wash the peaches and serve them whole in a fruit 
dish. Fry the bacon, remove from the pan, and cook the 
eggs. Make cinnamon tea. 

DINNER 

Sunday 

TURKISH PILAF 

HASHED SPINACH WITH EGG 

RHUBARB TAPIOCA 



SUMMER MEALS 99 

Turkish Pilaf 

3 cups rice 2 cups meat, chopped and 
i l / 2 cups of tomatoes cooked 

i l /2 cups water 

Mix rice with tomatoes and water, place alternate layer 
of the mixture and of chopped meat in baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs, bake until brown in moderate oven. 

Hashed Spinach with Hard Cooked Egg 

l / 2 peck spinach 2 eggs 

Wash spinach very carefully. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender, about 30 minutes. Lift the spinach out of 
the water. Chop fine and season with 3 tablespoons drip- 
pings. Serve in vegetable dish with a border of hard cooked 
eggs cut into quarter sections. 

Save the water in which the spinach was cooked for soup, 
as it contains valuable salts. 

Rhubarb Tapioca 

4 cups rhubarb l / 2 cup tapioca 

2 cups sugar 

Soak the tapioca over night in cold water to cover. Drain, 
add boiling water, and cook until transparent. Add sugar, 
and rhubarb, peeled and cut into half-inch pieces, and bake 
until rhubarb is tender. Serve hot or cold with milk. 

APPLE TAPIOCA is made in the same way. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak the tapioca over night and prepare this dish imme- 
diately after breakfast and set it aside to get cold. An 
hour before meal time, cook the eggs for the spinach, follow- 
ing the directions for hard cooked eggs. Prepare the lamb 
stew left from Saturday by picking the meat from the bones 
and chopping it. Make the Pilaf, using this with rice 
cooked on Saturday, and put in the oven 40 minutes before 
meal time. Wash the spinach and while it is cooking make 
the coffee and set the table. Season the spinach, take it 
up, and arrange the eggs. Serve the Pilaf in dish in which 
it was baked. Leave the dessert in the ice box until the 
first part of the dinner is eaten. 



735595 



100 LOW COST COOKING 

SUPPER 
Sunday 

ENGLISH MONKEY 
SPICE CAKE STEWED CHERRIES 

English Monkey 

4 cups bread crumbs Y^ cup cheese 

2 cups milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the bread crumbs and milk. If the crumbs are not 
well moistened, add water. When hot, add cheese cut in 
small pieces, remove from fire and stir until cheese is melted. 
May be served on toast. 

Spice Cake 

I cup dark brown sugar i teaspoon ground cinnamon 

I cup cold water y$ teaspoon ground cloves 

i l /2 cups seeded raisins y\ nutmeg 

y$ cup drippings or crisco l /2 teaspoon salt 

Boil the above ingredients together three minutes, then 
cool. When cold stir in one teaspoon of soda dissolved in a 
little warm water. Add 2 cups of flour, sifted with J/ 
teaspoon of baking powder. Bake as a loaf in a slow oven 
with the "Extra Baking" on Saturday. Nuts are a pleasing 
addition. 

Preparing the Meal 

Twenty minutes before serving, start English Monkey 
and while it is heating set the table. Add the cheese to the 
hot mixture and serve. 



MENUS 



101 





^ M 


>-N H 


. s 




02 


\4 


^-v 




o 


^v 






P" 





* 




^ 


j 


CO 




u 


*HH 






MBURGER STEAK WITH TOMATO (8 
BOILED LENTILS AND RICE (29) 
BAKED APPLE (85) 
FFEE MI] 


NTIL LOAF WITH SALT PORK (4 
CREAMED RUTABAGA (85) 
TTAGE PUDDING WITH LEMON SAU 

(56) 

COFFEE MILK 


PLANK STEAK PAN BROILED (35) 
[LED POTATOES (45) 
BROWNED PARSNIPS (4 


W 

2 
a 

H 

fa 

o 
o 


H 

S 

Q 
W 
H 
H 

M 
o 

3 
o 
K^ 

H 

h- 1 

& 

m 
EH 
EH 
p 

M 

"^ j 


SAUCE OF DRIED APPLES WITH 
PRUNES (53) 
FFEE MI] 


CREAMED SALT FISH (42) 
[LED POTATOES (80) 
DUTCH APPLE CAKE (2 


COFFEE MILK 


STUFFED BEEF HEART 
TTERED CARROTS 
RYE BREAD WITH OL 
COFFEE (MILK 


:AKED SALT PORK SHOULDER (321 
KED POTATOES (45) TURNIPS (4 
'APIOCA AND ORANGE PUDDING (99] 
COFFEE MILK 






< O 


C*3 O 


o 




<1 


Q 


o 




D 


" <* " 






M ^ 


j Q 


tt 




M 


U 


BO 




M 


a 


























< 


M 


O 


>-< 


O 

O5 






H 






o a 

^g^ t^ 


1 


3 

i 

^ 




O 








P 




r-l 




S.*' 


00 






o 


y s ^ 


**3 









CO 




J2J 


CO 


i 


t*j 


co a 


CO 


EH 3 












Z 




it 


^ 




j^O 


02 H 








E O 




o S 






r 


>H 


f* ^^* 


^3 




02 




~ W 




o ^ 


o 


i 


p 


02 ^ 


10 
H 


H 




H 

c- T 1 




go 




^ BJ2; 

H Z 


is 


\ 

[ 


(M 


H 9 


0^ 


2; 




^ ^> 








w ^r; 




t 


1 


O cj 


& 

%* 


r ^ 

<1 

^ 




Q H 




ps 




C B O 
H ^ 


S a?g 


< 
_i 


^ 


w M 


hH 

Crf Q 


>0 








c* 




P^ Q 


2 ft 




' 


L 




^^ n 

w y 


<H 




go 









02 ^ 


t>> r>5 




w 


koo 
t- 


O "- 1 

II 


@ 

f^. 




g^ 






w W 




<j "*C 


Q r* 1 y Ji 


< 
tt 

* 


Jg 


Q v ~' 


O i^ 


gP 












<1 


PH "1 J4 




^^ 


H r/) 


w 






H O 




W 3 




r. H 


^ H O 


rt 




M *" 


S ^ 


B^! 








^ 




S cs 


<~3 


< 




PR 


*Q )-< 


D3 ' H 


w 




I? 




"^3 Q 




-3 W 




il 


1 


CQ fa 
H Q 

5^ 


s ll 


y ^ 
H 




O 


M 


ort 




& 
Q 

a 


i g 


i 

1 

( 


j"H 


w 


d 


w 




(Q 


*J 


u 




Ul <0 




! 


J^ 


H 


H 


K 






M 






^j W 


o 


t 


^ 


02 


H 


u 






1A 






H 


o 


lE 
























1 






1 


o 




o" 




<N 




H 


o 


i 






s- * fa 


u 




<N 


g 


rJH H 




fa 









^^ 


01 fa 


o 




"^-^ 


H 


s ^ p *' 5Q 




H fa 


**~* 


t 




00 


t- O 








fa 


fa 




iJ O 


H 


t 




w 








EH 


fa 


K t^i 




Q U 


y 


( 




^'^ t^ 


02 


o*^ 




< 


O 


02 O 




Q 

t-H 


g fa 


( 




WM o z 


H 


cio 




O 


^ 


fa 




P4 


f-l 


rS 


Monday 


HOMINY GRITS WITH MIL 
EGG SOFT COOKED ( 
TOAST WITH OLEC 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS ( 
MILK FOR CHILDRE 


Tuesday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH PRUN 
TOAST 
MILK 

\Vednesday 


CORNMEAL MUFFINS ( 
FRIED BACON STRIPS ( 
COFFEE 


Thursday 


OATMEAL WITH RAISINS (28 
1 


MILK 

Friday 


RYE MUFFINS (76) 
CREAMED COD 
CAMBRIC TEA (63) 


Saturday 


CORNMEAL AND RICE G 
CAKES (25) 
CARAMEL SYRUP (67) 
MILK 


Sunday 

FRENCH TOAST (27) 
BROWN SUGAR S 
CINNAMON TEA C: 




J 

r 

' 

a 


< 

c 

Q 

rC 

S- 

4 
-~ 
c 
ft 



IO2 



LOW COST COOKING 







s 




X S / N 




*_ 


^ 


'~ v M 












^H 




CO CO 




E3 


S 


<N 




^^ t > * 








t fa 




co m 




OJ 


hH 


in o M 


S 










* o 




"~^ ^M 


^ 





^ Q 5? 

CO H *" 


^ 2 


fa 


^ ~~~ 








""^U 




03 ?" J 


CO 


H d 




CO Q 


fa 


O3 CJ 




DINNER 




MEAT SOUP WITH VEGETABLES 
ICE PUDDING (53) 
MILK FOR CHILDREN 




ROWN STEW WITH DUMPLING 
HASHED TURNIPS (44) 
BROWN BETl 
COFFEE MI] 


PORK SHOULDER POT ROAST ( 
BROWN GRAVY (93) 


BAKED POTA 
DRIED APPLE SAUCE 
JOFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR CH 


MEAT PIE FROM POT ROAST ( 
RUTABAGA AND POTATO MAS] 
TOGETHER 
CABBAGE SALAD (85) 
IOFFEE 


AVY BEAN SOUP WITH TOMATOE 
CREAMED SALT FISH (45) 
MASHED POTATOES 
BREAD WITH 
'OFFEE 


AKED BEANS WITH PORK (40) 
CANNED TOMATOES 
CORN BREAD (20) 
STEWED RAISINS (82) CO 


DAST MUTTON SHOULDER (32) 
BAKED SWEET POTATOE 
BUTTERED BEETS (44) 
LACK OLIVES SUET PUDDIN 








a 




P 




M 


<_> 


z w 


n 


~> C2 


t 
























? 
























^ 










H < 




^-fc^ 




^^^ 






C 




w 


& 








iH 




t>* 




CO 


H- 




N 

H 


Q 
^.^ 




W FH 

H 




S 




8 




in 


Q 

-C 


tf 





m -j 









TtJ 


. r \ 


!5o 


o 


03 





LUNCHEON OR SUPPE 


TER MENUS 3D \ 


OS 

03 

<3 H 
S O 




[ED ONIONS (44) 
BREAD WITH OLEO 




REAMED KIDNEY BEANS (< 
WITH PRUNE AND FIG J^! 
COCOA 


PUREE OF SPLIT PEAS (51 
BREAD WITH PRUNE SAUC 
TEA FOR ADULTS 


IUFFINS (24) 
BAKED BANANA 
AD WITH OLEO C 


'REAM OF BARLEY SOUP (5' 
BREAD AND DATE JAM 


ENGLISH MONKEY (100) 
D PEACHES AND APRICOT 
SPICE CAKE (100) 


;: 

i 



<5 
S 

* 

< 

<J 
r! 

* 

rS 
C 

^ 

tS 

V 
^ 

S 

f 




g 


g H 




< w 




cn 




H 





fe 


S 




M 


M 




H ^ 




^ 




<j M 




53 






^J 


PQ 




C3 *H 




P3 








H 


rC 















C3 




M 






i 










C0~ 




M 


- VI 

CO EH 


H 

D 3 


-. 


H 


1 










in 


J 


> i 


CO ,-J 


i5 -~fa 


t- 


""> fa 


C 

c 











^ 


H 


o " 





<3 N fa 
"^ O 


/- U 

<-^ ij< r; 


t~" fej 

~ o 


? 
? 


BREAKFAST 




WITH DATE SAUCE ( 
TOAST 
RIC TEA FOR CHI LORE 


3FFEE FOR ADULTS 


POWDER BISCUITS (! 
1 PORK (70) 
DRIED APPLE SAUC 


TOAST CINNAMON 

y 


L WITH TOP MILK (' 
FISH CAKES 


UFFINS (23) 
SCRAMBLED EG< 
CHILDREN 
COFFEE FOR A 


WHEAT WITH SUGAR 
TOP MILK 
CODFISH ON TOAST 1 
FFEE C 


CORNMEAL MUSII (7 
riil'P (07) 
FRIED SALT PORT 
1C TEA COFFl 


GRIDDLE CAKES (26) 
iDE CARAMEL SYRUP ( 
C 


Q 

* 
1. 

5 




Q 

5. 

<C 

Q 

^ 






< K 


y 


o 


TO 


; 


^. S C3 


Q o 


_ rr> ** 


a 2 


t 




Monday 


* 2 




Tuesday 

BAKIN 
FRIED SAI. 


COFFEE 

Wednesd 


OAT ME 

COFFEE 


2 H < 

|s 

r~ o w 


8 | S 

>g ~3 I 

fTj O <J *- 

< a H 3 
- o ** 
,*- O H 
U. 00} 


FRIED 
CARAMEL ! 

CAMB 


Sunday 

RIC: 

HOME M 
COCOA 


t> 

H 
K 
C 



MENUS 



103 












M 

-H 


5 a 


M 


- IS 


$ 


















S 


'-~' ^ 


co 3 


r/^ ^ 


** 





^ 








04 






CM 


*' 


. **J U M 


to 













EH 






s 


to 


"^ g 3 8 _ 


o 


< 
















_ 




K l- <j S /* 13 


EH 


o 






INNER 




5 

w^ 

o 

g^ 
S 

O 

e>^ 


D TOMATOES 




EART (37) 
CREAMED TU 
UDDING (57] 


3| 

u^-' 

gs 

t* 


H g Sj 5 OT 

B^ w a r S ^ 
>' fa.7< ^-^5 ^ 

HJ ^ w "2^ 


< 
EH 
O 
fax- 

^R^ 

HH t. . , 

CO W 

^^< a 

K ^ 


o 

. 
04 

H 

H 
J 

M4 

3 






Q 




H >- 
hJ 

I-H M 

s- 


CANNE 




W * 

EH 

3 H 
W p 


> H 

82 

H 
05 


fe H O EH <J Q 

FH S W *" S 


1 

" 
g Q 

k_J r i 


















r 1 * CO 






, 












ro 
ri 

>- 




H 


.J 

< 
y H 


S? 

H S 


M H 6 S 


u 
g 

H 




H 








EH 




W 
fa 


Q H 


M 

fa 


EH H S U 


hH 

K r 




fa 








W 




fa 


W p- 


S fa 


c^ fc* ^ 


"*! C5 




fa 








13 






o 


i s 


O 


8 S S 


CJ 

C3 




O 
U 


t 
; 
































. 




c w 

CO d 


GO 


"i M - v 

3 <M 

EH S <M 


EH 
W 






< 
< 




E^ 




C5 
p 




^ s 


^~" 


~ S ^M 


6 


*4 




|C 


tf 


i 




E-i 


H 


o 


CSS 


O < J 




H 




4 

C 


OR SUPPE 


TS 4TH ' 


[23) 

ADULTS 


CREAMED 


FOR CHILDR 


o 

2s 

fa o 

HH 


Y BEANS (5: 

EWED RAISI: 

ADULTS 


S H fc M " 

o H o *^3 




TOAST 




1 



( 

N 
5 

^ 




f 


P5 






w 


> EH 


EH c *~" * .* ^^ 








,; 


55 


& 


OjO 




<>3 


Q 


< W O 


O O o ***" 








* 





rH 


S fa 




H 


w 


5 fa 


^H fe EH ^s 5 


IO 








NCHE 


PH 


V 




O 

I-H 

ci 




CO 
H* 


fo <J 
H 

e H 

H 


M ^ 

H | 2 


O 

M 

Q 






rf 
1 


P 


H 






S 


Q 


p 


^ ^ S^ 


Q 


ri 




S 


^ 


EH 

g 


s 




Q 


04 
fc 


EH 
09 


pq -j 

S S H 

f^ ^^ 


H 


H 




c 
s 






^5 






CH ^ 


-^ 


E^ S 


^ 






^ 




^ 




o 






O w 
O EH 


g 


<J 8 Cj 
O EH y 


M 






! 








0< 


^_^ 




< _ - 




' a <n 








s 






o 

EH 


CO 




^ Q 


a 


g K H 


^^ 













O 


EH 




"T^ 53 

H W 


i 


w M" 


(M 




s 


? 






Pi 


w 
<J 

H 





H 1 . 


sii 

CJ S 


S a3 5 1 


| 


:- 




q 

iC 

* 


H 




O 

p 




2 

Q 


^M W 
o H u 


so 




^ cu H - rt 

HOT >: H w 


u 


*' 


s 


5 

< 


:EAKFAS 




w 

BM 
gd 
^s 

EH 




i 

W 
o 

03 
O 


III! 

O Q fe -d 

s^sl 


ri 


T ^? ^<* c_i r.*5 
H ^ " TH 

H T 2| 

i i ^3 i 


GRIDDLE 


EL SYRUP 


< 
z 
X 

HH 

y 


"t 

e 
< 

* 

B 


K 

H 


Monday 


CRACKED WHEA 


COFFEE 


HH 


Tuesday 

CHEESE IN CREA 
DRIED APPLES 

CINNAMON 


Wednesday 

FARINA MUSH 
TOAST 
COCO, 


H "5 j Q ^ 

3S "o 52 3d fa 

_ l . ^ <^ ** ^ 13^ 
^" -^ L ^N J^ ^^ 

H fa U. H CO M O 


Sunday 

STALE BREAD 


CARAM 


COFFEE 




iS 
> 

; 

-- 
c 



104 



LOW COST COOKING 







o 




* K 
^ 


03 


03 


og S 


,-> ^ 




^ 








^J 


K_ 


^* 


iJ H 


O 


CO < 2 


CO O 


CO 







DINNER 




CREAMED TRIPE (36) 
BOILED KIDNEY BEANS 
LETTUCE SA 
COFFEE MILK 


BRAINS SCRAMBLED WITH EGG (3, 
MASHED POTATOES (45) 


HASHED KALE ( 
COFFEE MILK 


NECK BONES BOILED WITH VEGETAB 

(57) 

WARM GINGERBREAD LEMONAD 


BEEF POT ROAST BROWNED POTAT 

(34) 

HASHED TURNIP (44) 
COFFEE MILK 


SALT FISH SCALLOPED WITH RICE ( 
LETTUCE AND GREEN ONION SAI 
OATMEAL COOKIES (57) 
BUTTERM 


BROWN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS (3 
BUTTERED BEETS (44) 
FRUIT DRINK ( 


MEAT PIE (MADE FROM SATURDAY* 
STEW) (36) 
MASHED POTATOES (45) 


HASHED GREEN BEANS ( 
LEMON JELLY (58) 
COFFEE MILK 


t 

s 






M 


O 

W 




M 

J 


H 


^ 


00 


ft 


Q 









w 


3 


03 

- . 


HH 

M 

3 


> 

a 


O 


CO 

s *" p ' CO 
a 


a ^ 

Q C5 


ft 




Q 

A 


LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 


fi 

(N 
02 

tf 


CREAMED CARROTS (70) 
COLD COCOA 
BREAD 


ROQUETTES OF KIDNEY BEAJ 
RHUBARB AND PRUNE SAUCE 




JD SALT PORK IN CREAM G 
ON TOAST (76) 
STEWED PLUMS 
TEA MILI 


MED ONIONS (42) 
RHUBARB MARMALADE 
BUTTERMILK 


SCRAMBLED WITH POTATOES 
'RIED APRICOTS AND PEACHI 
STEWED TOGETHER (72) 
FOR ADULTS 


MILK FOR CHI I 

CREAMED KOHLRABI (44) 
:TUCE SALAD WITH CHEESE ( 
FRENCH DRESSING (93) 


TTUCE AND PEANUT SALAD (' 
iGE PUDDING (56) LEM( 




*+ 

I 

e 



~ 
* 

- 


~ 

5 
C 




P 


H 







*M 

t ( 




g 


Q 


n 


& H 




1 




02 







H 


fa 





o g 




O 




1 






























B 


^^ 




&l 


^_ - 




H 


W 




; 






OJ 


fc- 




o 


t- 




W 


g 











W ^ 


co 




EH 


^ CD 


H^ 

M 


oj 






5 






j O 


N** 






lO " s ' 


M 


o 


^T 




5 






H H .4 


05 


M 


ft M 


CJ ^ 


m " 




2 -ii 




? 






a 








***^ ol iJ 


ft 


iJ 


M 










Hi 


2 


M 


^J HH 


03 - 2 


HH 


M 

g 


w ^ 




Q 

r= 






H U 


H 

03 




*< OT 


M w 


< 




t. fc 
u 




1. 


H 




Q 






w 


" 3 ^!- 


M 


U3 


W krl 
H rt 




5 






ft 






Wl -~~- ^ 


Ci 


W 


O 

> ~' 


02 < 




* 


<.< 




"1 






O ^ 


Ht-g 






^ ^ 




c 


fc 
Ld 




M 

i 


CO J 

<N n 




B^SJ 

g^o 


,j - -<-> 


^| 


03 

H 


<N ft 

OJ ^H 

^ U 





Q 


BREA 




j j 

wo 

H-GO 

M-t ^ ' 

H 


""d 

o: y 

23 
& fa 
&. 




^WQ 

w 

Hw p 
5 M 

S H 


2 S Q 

tf cs g 

PH S 

Q 72 ? 
ci fa 


m ^ 


d w 


GQ 

J 
>J 
O 








<C 
Q 




Monday 


FARINA W 
BAKED AI'PL] 
COFFEE 


Tuesday 

GRAHAM MUJ 


COFFEE 

Wednesday 


OATMEAL MI 

& 
COFFEE 


Thursday 

STALE BRI: 
BROWN SUGA 

COFFEE 


Friday 

FARINA 
COFFEE 


Saturday 

F 

STEWED API 
COFFEE 


Sunday 

HOME-MADE 
COFFEE 




-C 

E- 

( 

t- 

^ 



MENUS 







[H 












03 


* 


^ - , 








^ 73 




* >4 


14 


EH 




O tjd 


U 

a 


O >-O 








a 




** i-j 




H 




5^ 


Q 


> -^ 








o ^ 




cs 3 


"^^ <-H 


P 


EH 


< 


CO j 


^ V) 








X. ' 




* 


. v^9 


M 


^^4 


O 


M 


> a 




DINNER 




.MBURGER CAKES WITH BROW 
MASHED POTATOES (45) BE 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 




BEEF POT ROAST (34) 
BROWNED POTATOES WITH 
BEET GREENS (46-98) 
ICED COFFEE 


BAKED CROQUETTES (91 
WARM GINGER BREAD (57- 
SOUR BEETS 
COFFEE 


'AN BROILED BONELESS HAM 
WITH WATER GRAVY 
BOILED POTATOES (45) 
ICE CREAM (59) 


CREAMED CODFISH ON TOI 
LSIIED POTATOES (45) 


HASHED 
COFFEE 


MUTTON STEW WITH CARR 
MASHED POTATOES (45) 
STEWED GOOSEBERRIES 
ED TEA FOR ADULTS 
FRUIT DRINK FOR Cl 


LVES' HEARTS FRIED 
BROWNED OKA 
MASHED POTATOES ( 15) 
EWED PLUMS CUP CAK 
COFFEE 








<; 

h_4 








hH 


*>) 









H 



t* 






H 










2 




M 


O ;/: 


a 
j* 










fc 




^^ ^ 






^-z; 


^^ 
















CO R 






t-H 


o 


^""* 




H 


A-I 




CO g 




CO a 

' Q 






00 cj 


00^-* 


rO 


NCHEON OR SUPPER 


BR MENUS 3D WE 


CARROTS 
.IADE CINNAMON ROLLS (i 
BUTTERMILK 




ED SALT PORK ON TOAST (1 
ADULTS 
MILK FOR CHIL 


CREAMED TURNIPS 
ATMEAL COOKIES (57) 
BUTTERMILK 


POTATOES (45) 
5VITH HARD COOKED EGGS 
DRIED APPLE SAUCE 
ADULTS 
MILK FOR CHIL 


CORNMEAL MUFFINS 


COTTAGE CHEESE 
COLD COCOA 


MUFFINS (23) 
APPLE SAUCE (81 
.DULTS MILK FOR CHIL 


RAMBLED IN TOMATOES (3 
ILK TOAST 


5' 
00 

.2" 
S 

2 

"o 

i 


P 


H 


fa i 




M 


O 


Q ^ 






<5 


sj * 


^ 




S 


o a 




2 ^ 




a 






S C3 


'S. ~- 


* 

Q 




@ 


a 8 




ra ? 




a g 






<! O 


o a 






n 


a o 




3 




<1 w 






KBB 


H 


V 




^^ 


C3 H 




o ^ 










<3 -<i 


W ^H 


v 






3 




a 




cs a 






a 


p 








0^ 




H 




O H 






H 


H 








73 Z 




z 


^ 


Z 


W 


H 


2; 


-> ?5 


S 






S a 




^ a 


a 


03 




O 


a 


55 K 


to 






1 Q 




W ^ Q 


i i 


Q 


jg 


] 


S 


G 


o 






1-4 HJ 

CH " 




I " H ^ 4 


J 


c7 


H 


02 


^ d 


ro t3 


e. 






Q 5 




M 

*5 pq _ 


^ 


^-P W 


O 


P 


c5 ^ 


& a 


to 






a o 




. U 


a u 


o ^ 


. 


^ 


^ ' ^ 


^i ^^ 


>c; 


H 

CO 




6 
1 




S < 

8g 

Ma * 


S5 8 

Sag 

^ w 


S" 

^H jQ g^ 

O t, fa 


M 
pH 

H 


^ V7 
t" 


"C 

I-H t O 

KO S 

* - ^ j 


^H , 
CC 73 
CO g 
^K fa 





BREAKFA 




OAST (27) ! 
ADULTS 
MILK 




MUSH WITI 
S) BAKED R: 
ADULTS 
MILK 


w-o a sj 
a^ o 

fcd^&i O 

dg|gS 

Ms| 

^ H < "5 


P 


HH / 

J 
< 

^- 


(Z>) 
RHUBARB AN 
'FFEE FOR AI 


CORNMEAL M 
tIED BACON 
ADULTS 
MILK 


O ON TOAST 
Fit I ED BACC 
ADUI/IS 
fNAMON TEA 


00 

to 

3 

Cs 

; 
to 




Monday 

FRENCH TI 
COFFEE FOR 


Tuesday 

OATMEAL 
TOAST (2i 
COFFEE FOR 


Wednesday 

PO 

RHUBARB 
COFFEE FOR 


g Q ^ *5 

E_ M " ^ 

= M fa pS 

o its 

I- o U. fa 


^? 

H 
A 
<3 
O 


Saturday 

FRIED i 
Fl 
COFFEE FOR 


Sunday 

POACHED EG 

COFFEE FOR 
Cl! 


NoteTJi 



106 



LOW COST COOKING 





BONELESS HAM BUTTS PAN BROILED 
BOILED POTATOES (45) TOMATO SALAD 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR CHILDREN 


KIDNEY BEAN LOAF CREAMED CARROTS 
(70) 


WARM GINGERBREAD (80) 
LEMONADE 


BEEF STEW WITH VEGETABLES 
BAKED POTATOES 


ICED TEA FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR CHILDREN 

PAN BROILED FLANK STEAK (77) 
BOILED POTATOES (45) LETTUCE SALAD 
ICED COFFEE FOR ADULTS 


MILK FOR CHILDREN 


CODFISH HASH CUCUMBER SALAD 
CORNBREAD (26) BUTTERMILK 


VEAL STEW WITH RICE 
HASHED TURNIPS 
ICED TEA FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR CHILDREN 


PAN BROILED ROUND STEAK 
BOILED POTATOES (45) 
SLICED PEACHES SPICE CAKE ( 100) 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR CHILDREN 


S 


bd 




H 




t^ C3 


2 






X 


_ 


H fc 





H 


O 


^ 




s 


B 

a 


eu~ 







op 


03 H 
"5 CJ 


to 




^ 


g 




3 S 


G 


go 




3 


GO 


H 3 


iO 


> 


K 

03 


3 




a o 





03^" 
03 




M 
02 Jr: 


^ 


fc a 


a 




E3 


O 


^** 


o w 


U 








K 


o o 


s* 




fcH 




ro 


t* 




^ 




^J 


y 






H 


H 


^ 


S^ 


OS S 

^5 t' C?i 


a 
o 


^ 




g 


P 

<j 


S 00 


OB 


^i 


U ^ <4 


03 




fc, ^00 


fa 


S 73 




M fe 


ut 

& A 


M C- fa 


a 


i 


g|5 

fe ^ H 
!5 


H 
K 
<~, 
fc- 

H S 


HUBARB 


S 
rj H 

^ SJ5 
^g 


MILK 


o a 
2 




<r! 73 M 

sS 3 
2g * 

w 


H) 

-^S 

co ij 2 

<M &< S 

~CH 

M ** H 


a 

OS H b^ 
00 C-i ^ 3 


1 

to 


u 


wa^ 


73 


- -f. 


a 


M 


<! R 




O 03 M 


S H 


50 Q 


** 


i 


^ H S 

<fl CS M 
H O 


W 

B 


& 


g< 
SH 


B 

a 
P 


3 




1 s 

-t - 


5 P 

fa M 

fa 


B 3 


. 


_a 


n 


U 


5 Q 


C5 CH 


Q 


ft-1 




H Q 


P 


CJ ^ fa 


fSJ 


U 




Q 


< <i 

03 ^ 




<3 







OS < 
o 


2 


Q <jj 





G 


H 


2 







& 


< M 




OS 




^ H 


g 


^ 




<! 


O 


^ 


O 


u- W 









<3 H 


o 


c 


d 




fa 


S 


fa 


__, 




fa 


<3 






g 


S 


B 
O 


H 


H 


H 






H 


S 


H Q 
O H 

-c CJ 


to 


CO 




S 


H 


05 


H 






H 


O 


- 


1 

- 




"^ ^ 


w 


H 


5 






g 


| 


3 


t- 


g 

to 




W Q^ 


HH 


d 


K 




rM^ 


c3 


CO 


OS 


O fr 


fe 




^ Q 


S 


Q 


<i 




SJ 


Q 


~ Q 


M O 


^ H 


e 




j 




a 


^ 


55 


J^, 


hj 


0, J 


3 i-j 


Cd 


R. 




^ a 


Ox^ 




a 


<i 




CJ 


jp 


>-H 

3 




a 3 


t. 2 


to 






EHQO" 


^ 




Q 


h3 CO 


^> 


>-v S ^ 


O 


5 s 


^i 


Monday 


TOASTED ROLLS 
FRIED BACON ST 
APPLE SAUCE (82-87 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR 


Tuesday 

OATMEAL WITH SUGAR AND 
SOFT COOKED EGG (3 


COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR 


Wednesday 

CREAM TOAST (96) 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 


i-9 

HH 

a 

03 
O 

fa 

a 



Thursday 

HOME-MADE CINNAMON ROL 
FRIED BACON STRIPS (' 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 


O 

fa 
a 

H 

rt 
73 


Friday 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT (24 
CARAMEL S: 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR 


Saturday 

FARINA MUSH WITH TOP 
SCRAMBLED EGG (38^ 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR 


Sunday 

POTATO CAKES (86) 
FRIED BACON ST 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
MILK FOR CH 


to 

? 

S 

to 

i 





COST FOR ONE MONTH 

The following quantities are estimated as sufficient for 
a family of man, woman and four children over 4 and under 
13 years of age. The same amount of food would be 
enough for a family consisting of a woman and six chil- 
dren under 14. In the latter case, however, the menus 
should be modified to give more milk for the children and 
less meat will be needed. The cost would remain the same. 

The prices quoted are those for the year 1914 in Chicago. 
Of course these vary greatly in different parts of the city, 
and prices of fruits and vegetables fluctuate from week to 
week and even from day to day. If the particular kinds 
mentioned in the menu cannot be bought at the price named 
some other kind cheaper that day can usually be found 
and used instead. Allowance is made for unavoidable loss 
in cooking and preparing but not for any waste of good 
food materials being thrown away. 



WINTER MENUS. 
CEREALS AND BREADSTUFFS. 



White flour 49 Ibs 

Rye flour 3 Ibs 

Graham flour 3 Ibs 

Oatmeal (bulk) .... 4 Ibs 

Cornmeal 6 Ibs 

Cracked wheat. I Ib 



Navy beans 3 Ibs 

Kidney beans I Ib 

Lima beans 2 Ibs 

Lentils 2 Ibs 



$1.40 

15 
.15 
.20 

15 
.06 



Rice (broken) 3 Ibs 

Rice (whole) I Ib 

Hominy 2 Ibs 

Farina 2 Ib 

Barley I Ib 



LEGUMES. 

$ .18 Split peas 

.08 Black eyed peas.. 

.16 

.14 



2 Ibs 
i Ib 



$ .12 
.07 

05 
.IO 
.08 

$2.53 

$ .12 

.06 



$ 74 



VEGETABLES 

Potatoes i bu $ .90 

Sweet potatoes 3 Ibs .10 

Turnips 8 Ibs .16 

Rutabaga 8 Ibs .12 

Cabbage 8 Ibs .24 

Beets 6 Ibs .12 

Carrots 10 Ibs .20 

Onions I pk .20 

Dates 2 Ibs .20 

Figs 2 Ibs .20 



AND FRUITS. 

Seedless raisins.... 2 Ibs $ .20 

Prunes 3 Ibs .30 

Dried apples 5 Ibs .70 

Dried apricots i Ib .20 

Dried peaches 2 Ibs .24 

Bananas 2 doz .20 

Fresh apples i l / 2 pks .45 

Oranges I doz .24 

Lemons 2 .05 

Canned tomatoes. . . l /2 doz .60 

$5.62 



107 



io8 



LOW COST COOKING 



Milk 70 qts 

Hamburger steak. . 7 Ibs 

Beef for stew 4 Ibs 

Mutton for stew... 2 Ibs 
Fresh pork shoulder 3 Ibs 
I salt pork shoulder 8 Ibs 

Flank steak 4^/2 Ibs 

Calves' hearts i l / 2 Ibs 

Fat salt pork 3 Ibs 

Bacon strips 8 Ibs 

Round steak i l / 2 Ibs 



MEATS, EGGS, FATS, ETC. 

$5.60 Corn beef brisket. . , 

.84 Codfish 

.40 Salt fish 

.24 Eggs , 

.42 Cheese 

1.28 Oleomargarine . . . 

.63 Suet 

.18 Leaf fat 

.36 Beef heart 

i .60 Beef for pot roast. 
33 



i Ib 


$ .14 


2 Ibs 


30 


3 Ibs 


.40 


4 doz 


1.28 


2 Ibs 


44 


8 Ibs 


1.76 


4 Ibs 


.20 


4 Ibs 


.44 


i Ib 


.15 


2 Ibs 


.24 



$17.23 



MISCELLANEOUS. 
Sugar 15 Ibs $ .75 Spices, flavoring, etc. 



Tapioca i Ib .08 

Black olives I Ib .12 

Coffee 4 Ibs i.oo 

Tea l / 2 Ib .20 

Cocoa l /4 Ib .06 



Salt 

Yeast 16 cks 

Baking powder 

Salad oil 



TOTAL FOR THE MONTH, $28.89. 

SUMMER MENUS. 
CEREALS AND BREADSTUFFS. 

White flour 49 Ibs $1.40 Cracked wheat I Ib 

Graham flour 2 Ibs .10 Rice (broken) 6 Ibs 

Oatmeal (bulk) 3 Ibs .15 Farina 2 Ibs 

Cornmeal (bulk) . . 4 Ibs .10 

LEGUMES. 

Navy beans 2 Ibs $ .12 Kidney beans 2 Ibs. 

Lima beans i Ib .08 Split peas 2 Ibs 

VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 



Potatoes 3 pks 

Kohlrabi 4 bch 

Carrots 8 bch 

Turnips 4 bch 

Beets 4 bch 

Spinach 2 pks 

Kale i pk 

Large onions l / 2 pk 

Green onions 4 bch 

Radishes 4 bch 

Lettuce 12 bch 

Green beans 1 l / 2 qts 

Cucumbers 

Dried apricots l / 2 Ib 



$ -7 



75 
.10 

.20 
.10 
.10 

.30 

.10 
.10 
.10 
.10 

.60 

.12 

05 
.10 



Dried peaches.... I Ib 

Prunes 3 Ibs 

Rhubarb 10 Ibs 

Fresh peaches 4 doz 

Raisins 2 Ibs 

Fresh tomatoes.... 
Canned tomatoes . . 2 cans 

Fresh apples i pk 

Dried apples i l / 2 Ibs 

Plums I basket 

Berries 4 boxes 

Gooseberries 3 boxes 

Lemons I doz 

Bananas 2 doz 



$ 



.10 
.10 

,16 
.10 

.10 



$2.77 



$ .06 

.24 

.10 

$2.15 
$ .16 

.12 

$ .48 

$ .12 

30 
.20 
.20 
.20 

05 
.20 

25 
.20 

30 
30 
30 
.20 
.20 

$5.84 



COST OF MENUS 



109 



MEATS, EGGS, FATS, ETC. 



Milk 70 qts $5.60 

Buttermilk 12 qts .60 

Cottage cheese .10 

American cheese. . .2 l / 2 Ibs .55 

Lard 4 Ibs .44 

Suet 3 Ibs .15 

Oleomargarine .... 8 Ibs 1.68 

Bacon strips 8 Ibs 1.68 

Chopped meat 6 Ibs .72 

Beef for pot roast. 8 Ibs .96 

Boneless ham butt.. 2 Ibs .40 

Codfish 3 Ibs .30 

Beef for stew 6 Ibs .72 



Lamb for stew 3 Ibs $ .30 

Mutton for stew... 2 Ibs .24 

Calves' hearts 3 Ibs .36 

Round steak I >^lbs .33 

Veal for stew 2lbs .24 

Flank steak i^lbs .21 

Tripe ij^lbs .15 

Neck bones 3 Ibs .18 

Brains .15 

Eggs 8doz 1.92 

Salad oil I qt .35 



Sugar 18 Ibs 

Tapioca I lb 

Coffee 4 Ibs 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

$ .90 Flavorings, etc. 
.08 Salt 



Tea . 
Cocoa 



lb 
lb 



I. oo 

.20 
.06 



Yeast 16 cakes 

Baking powder 



TOTAL FOR THE MONTH, $29.50. 



$18.33 



$ .10 
.10 
.16 

.10 

$2.70 



HOME MADE FIRELESS COOKER 

The use of a fireless cooker will save gas, keep the kitchen 
free from steam and heat and give excellent results with 
foods which require long, slow cooking. 

The principle on which it is made is that of keeping in 
the heat. Food is started cooking, then the kettle is tightly 
closed and placed where it will be so shut out from the air 
that the heat is held until the food is cooked. 

Almost every housekeeper has some large box with a 
lid, an old trunk or something of the sort which can be 
used. If not, the grocer can supply a tall cheese box or a 
butter tub for 10 cents. 

For a cooking vessel choose one with straight sides or 
sides sloping upwards and a tight lid. A granite pail with 
a tin lid will do and may be bought for 30 cents. A 5-pound 
lard pail can be used. Aluminum or granite stock pots 
made for this purpose with clamped lids can be bought for 
So cents to $2.00. 

Pack the bottom of the box or tub with an 8-inch layer 
of excelsior, straw, sawdust or crushed newspaper. Set 
the vessel to be used on this and pack the excelsior or paper 
tightly all around to the top of the kettle. When the kettle 
is lifted out a nest will be left into which it can be put again. 
Cut a strip of asbestos paper as wide as the kettle is high 
and long enough to reach around it. Line the nest with 
this. 

For the top make a cushion of thin white cloth filled 
with excelsior or paper. Make the cushion just large 
enough to fill the top of the box or tub and allow the lid to 
fit down closely over it. 

no 



FIRELESS COOKER 



III 



TIME TABLE FOR HOME-MADE FIRELESS COOKER 



MEATS 

Beef Pot Roast 
Pork and 
Sauerkraut 
Stewed Chicken 



PROPORTION 
2lbs. 

2lbs. 
iqt. 

i chicken 
water to cover 



TIM EON FIRE 
30 min. simmer 

30 min. simmer 
30 min. simmer 



TIME IN COOKKK 
6hrs. 

6 to 7 hrs. 
8 hrs. or more 



FRESH VEGETABLES 
Carrots 
Beets 
Turnips 
Peas 
Cabbage 
String Beans 
Potatoes 



TIM EON FIRE 



5 mm. 

5 min, 
5 min 
5 min 
5 min 

5 



boil 
boil 
boil 
boil 
boil 
boil 
boil 



LEGUMES 
Navy Beans 
Split Peas 
Lentils 



after soaking 
12 hrs. 



CEREALS 
Rolled Oats 
Cream of Wheat 
Farina 
Cornmeal 

Hominy Grits 
Rice 

Macaroni 



DRIED FRUITS 
Prunes Apricots 
Raisins Peaches 
Apples 



PROPORTIONS 

i cup 

water 3 cups 
water 3 cups 

i cup 
water 5 cups 

I cup 
water 5 cups 

i cup 
water 4 cups 

i box 



soak 6 hrs. 
or all night 



TIME ON FIRE 
30 min. boil 
30 min. boil 
30 min. boil 

TIME ON FIRE 

5 min. boil 
5 min. boil 
5 min. boil 

5 min. boil 
5 min. boil 
5 min. boil 

TIME ON FIRE 
5 min. boil. 
5 min. boil 



TIME IN COOKER 
3 hrs. or more 
3Khrs.ormore 

2 hrs. 

3 hrs. 
ihr. 
6 hrs. 
i l /2 hrs. 

TIME IN COOKER 

8 hrs. 

6 hrs. 

6 hrs. 

TIME IN COOKER 
2 to 12 hrs. 
5 to 12 hrs. 

10 hrs. or more 
ihr. 



TIME IN COOKER 
4 to 6 hrs. 
4 to 6 hrs. 



COLD LUNCHES 

If a cold lunch must be eaten by any member of the 
family, it should be very carefully prepared and should 
have as much variety as possible. A cold lunch soon 
becomes exceedingly distasteful if it is always the same. 
The substantial part of the lunch must usually be sand- 
wiches with fresh fruit if possible and sometimes cake or 
cookies, or candy. 

The lunch box or basket may be divided into two or 
four parts by making partitions of strips of pasteboard. 
Each compartment should be lined with white paper fresh 
each day. In this way different kinds of food can be kept 
separate and it will be possible to carry baked beans and 
salads of all kinds in one compartment where they will not 
injure the other foods. 

SANDWICHES 

Slice bread for sandwiches very thin, put in the rilling 
and cut them the size and shape desired. It is better to 
have each sandwich small as this makes them more appe- 
tizing. They should be very carefully wrapped in oiled 
paper so they will not dry out. The following are some 
suggestions for making filling for sandwiches. 

1. SLICED MEATS. 

Ham, roast or boiled beef, etc., sliced thin. When such meat 
is used for the family dinner, cut off some good slices for the 
next day's lunch. Home-cooked meats cost only about one- 
third as much as the ready-cooked. 

2. CHOPPED MEATS. 

Ham, pork, beef, mutton, etc., chopped fine, with seasoning such 
as mustard, salad dressing, etc. All leftover meats can be used in 
this way and made into tasteful sandwiches. 

3. BACON, fried crisp. 

Dip one side of the bread to be used in the hot drippings, lay 
the pieces of bacon inside. This is good with cornbread. 

112 



SANDWICHES 113 

4. LETTUCE. 

Spread a leaf of lettuce with cooked salad dressing and place 
between slices of buttered bread. Or, use cottage cheese instead 
of salad dressing. 

5. NUT SANDWICHES. 

Chopped or ground peanuts or other nuts, moistened with 
salad dressing or melted butter. 

6. NUT AND FRUIT. 

Use dried figs, raisins or dates, chopped fine and mixed with 
ground nuts. 

7. CHEESE. 

Make a layer of grated cheese between slices of buttered 
bread. It may be moistened with syrup. 

8. EGG. 

Hard-cooked egg chopped fine, moistened with hot drippings 
or butter, or salad dressing; sweet green pepper chopped fine 
may be added; or fried egg placed between pieces of bread. 

9. BAKED BEANS. 

Mash the beans fine, add a little mustard and vinegar, or any 
other seasoning desired, and place between buttered bread. 

10. SWEET SANDWICHES. 

Mash the pulp of stewed fruit, dates, figs, prunes, etc., and 
spread between buttered bread. A thick marmalade may be used 
for this. 

WHEN THE MOTHER WORKS OUTSIDE THE 

HOME 

Many of the menus given require more of the house- 
keepers' attention and time than she can give if in addition 
to her own home keeping she must do outside work for the 
support of her family. 

If the fire is to be kept going all day during her absence, 
stews, meat soups, kettles of legumes with meat, or of 
cereal, and other dishes requiring long cooking, can be 
cooked on the top of the stove ; or baked beans, peas, or len- 
tils be left in the oven to be ready for the evening meal. 
If the fire is not to be kept, a fireless cooker should be used 
for such dishes as these. They can be put into the cooker 
before the mother goes out to work and will cook while she 
is away. The children can be instructed to put potatoes for 
baking in the oven an hour before meal time, so that a good 
meal will be almost ready when the mother returns. 



II 4 LOW COST COOKING 

If the children are to eat a lunch prepared by themselves, 
it will be wise to make milk an important part of the meal. 
Bread with either hot or cold milk and fruit or jam makes 
a good lunch, or a creamed soup or creamed vegetable 
which the children can re-heat for themselves in the Winter, 
or eat cold in the Summer. 

The following may help some little housekeeper who 
wants to have the house in order when her mother returns 
tired out from the day's work. 

PROGRAM FOR WORK WHEN MOTHER Is AWAY FROM HOME 

Each child old enough to work must help as the house- 
work is too much for one child under 14 years of age. The 
older one may plan and have the others work under her 
direction. 

6 130 A. M. Rise. On rising, open the beds and leave the 
bed clothing neatly spread out to air with the windows all 
open. Have each child do this for his own bed. 

Wash hands and face and dress fully before starting to 
cook breakfast. Set the breakfast table neatly and all sit 
down to eat together. Insist that each child be washed and 
dressed before coming to the breakfast table. 

After breakfast wash dishes at once, one child washing, 
another wiping and putting away. Clean the sink, put every- 
thing in place, and sweep the kitchen. This much should be 
finished by 10 A. M. at latest. During the part of the year 
when the children are going to school they should plan to 
do this much before dressing for school. The beds may be 
left to air all day and made when school is over. 

10 A. M. Make the beds, two children working at each 
bed at the same time; set bed rooms and sitting room in 
order; brush up floors if necessary, and dust. This should 
be finished by II A. M. at latest, so that there will be time 
for rest or play before getting lunch. 

After lunch is over wash these dishes at once so that the 
house will be in order again for the afternoon and there 
will be time to rest and play before time to start things 
cooking for the supper. 



DISH WASHING 

When children hate dish washing it is because they do 
not think about what an important and fine thing it is to 
take articles unfit for use and make them fit. A dirty dish 
is fit for nothing. To take this and make it beautifully 
clean and free from germs ready to be used for food is in- 
teresting work and is pleasant when properly done. 

Plenty of hot water with soap or soda is necessary. Al- 
ways fill the kettle after taking water from it. There must 
also be clean dry towels for wiping the dishes. Sugar sacks, 
which the grocer sells 3 for 10 cents make excellent ones. 
They should always be washed out immediately after using 
as they are hard to wash after drying. They must be boiled 
every few days to keep them from having unclean odors. 

Piling and Soaking 

Scrape all bits of food from dishes on to one plate and 
empty this in the garbage pail which should be lined with 
newspaper. Pile dishes of the same kind together and put 
to soak those that would otherwise be hard to wash. Rinse 
milk glasses with cold water and soak dishes containing egg 
or dough in cold water, others in hot water. Fill cooking 
dishes which have had food burned in them with water in 
which washing soda has been dissolved, boil until they can 
be easily washed. 

Washing 

Wash the cleanest articles first, glass, silver and cups, in 
pan of hot water with soap or soda. Rinse in another pan 
containing clear hot water or pile on a rack and pour over 
them enough hot water to remove the dirty soapy water. 
Dry and arrange neatly on pantry shelves. 

115 



Il6 LOW COST COOKING 

MAKING THE BEDS 

Turn the mattress over, spread on the lower sheet, stretch- 
ing very tight and tucking it under the mattress. The broad 
hem of the sheet belongs at the top, the narrow one at the 
bottom. Spread on the upper sheet and the blankets or com- 
forters leaving the sheet 8 or 9 inches longer at the top 
than the covers so that it may be turned back over them to 
protect them from getting dirty. Tuck all under the mat- 
tress with square corners, pulling down tight without crease; 
put the spread on evenly and lay the pillows on squarely. 

SWEEPING AND DUSTING 

Before sweeping, see that no uncovered food is in the 
room or anything that dust will injure. Open doors and 
windows. Sweep out the corners well and sweep towards 
the center of the room, or open door using short strokes 
and holding the broom close to the floor so that the dust 
will fly about as little as possible. In winter snow may be 
scattered over dusty carpet to keep dust down. Damp saw- 
dust and coarse salt are also good for this purpose. A soft 
cloth makes the best duster. Do not forget to wipe the dust 
off the rungs of the chairs, table legs and other parts of 
furniture partly hidden. Shake the duster out of window 
after using, and wash it often. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 

Many foods good for adults are very harmful to the 
weaker digestive system of a child. A child's stomach can 
no more do the work of a man than his hands can do a 
man's work. Since the menus given are planned for a 
family including children, most of the dishes given may be 
eaten by children over four years of age. The food for a 
child under four requires more special attention and must 
be specially prepared. 

THINGS A CHILD UNDER FOUR MUST NOT EAT 

1. Heavy meats, such as ham, sausage, pork, dried beef, 
corned beef, liver, etc. Give a little scraped beef or 
mutton, meat broth, or minced chicken. If milk and 
eggs are freely given it is not necessary to give meat at 
all. 

2. Strong acid fruits, such as lemon and tomato, or pickles. 

3. Pie and pastry of all kinds, and nuts. 

4. Freshly baked bread, hot rolls, rich cake. 

5. Fried vegetables of all kinds. 

6. Raw vegetables, such as onions, radishes, cucumbers. 

7. Green corn and dried beans, unless these are put through 
a sieve or colander. 

8. Raw bananas and preserved fruits. Stale or very ripe 
fruits. Fruits with hard seeds. 

9. Most important of all stimulants, such as beer or any 
alcoholic beverages; tea and coffee. Of these tea and 
coffee are the ones most likely to be given to children. 

These are some of the reasons why stimulants should not 
be given children : 

(a) If a child is given stimulants he feels satisfied with- 
out food, or with a smaller amount than is needed, 
and the result is that his growth is stunted. 

(b) Coffee and tea having a pleasant flavor spoil the 
taste of the child for cereals, vegetables, milk and 
other wholesome foods which have little flavor. 

117 



Il8 LOW COST COOKING 

Therefore, it becomes more difficult for the mother 
to teach the child to eat the things necessary for 
his proper growth and development. 

(c) Coffee and tea in excess affect the kidneys and may 
be responsible for much of the kidney disease now 
so common among children. 

(d) Coffee and tea in excess weaken the nervous sys- 
tem and injure the heart. 

REGULAR HABITS 

Not only must a child be taught what to eat but he must 
be carefully trained as to eating times. A child needs food 
oftener than a grown-up person, but should have regular 
meals and be given nothing between. 

A child under four years needs at least four meals and 
if five meals suit the mother's arrangements better, this 
number will not be harmful. His sleeping hours should 
be arranged to come between meals, and should be kept just 
as strictly as meal time. 

School children need a light lunch after school. It should 
be something that will not tempt them to eat much, so as to 
spoil their appetite for supper. Bread or cold toast or 
fruit or milk is suitable. 

Never give candy or sweets between meals, but always at 
the end as a dessert. 

FOOD FOR A CHILD UNDER ONE YEAR 

If a child must be artificially fed or when the time comes, 
at 6 to 9 months, when it needs other food in addition to or 
in place of its mother's milk, the advice of a physician who 
is a specialist in the feeding of children should if possible 
be obtained. Bad feeding at this time is exceedingly dan- 
gerous, as the large number of deaths among small children 
show. 

A healthy, well grown child of one year can be given 
clean, fresh milk, whole or mixed with water, strained 
orange juice or prune juice; several kinds of cereal after 
they are strained, and a few vegetables such as spinach, 
carrot, asparagus, and cooked celery \vhich have been 
mashed through a strainer. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 119 

When a child first begins to have meat it should be given 
scraped beef or mutton. To prepare use a piece of lean 
meat cut like steak across the grain of the meat. In scrap- 
ing, the substance of the meat can be gotten out, leaving 
behind the tough fibers. Form into pats and broil. 

The following sample diet shows the amount and kind of 
food necessary for young children. 

MENU FOR CHILD i l / 2 YEARS WEIGHT ABOUT 26 POUNDS 

7:00 A. M. 2 tablespoons farina (measured raw) 
Y^ cup milk 
2 tablespoons orange juice 

10:00 A. M. i cup junket or milk 
12:30 P.M. i small baked potato 

i slice bread and butter 
i slice bacon 
y^ cup milk 

2 130 P. M. I egg yolk on toast crumbs 

i slice bread 
y cup spinach pressed through strainer 

5:30 P.M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
y cup milk 
3 prunes 

The farina and oatmeal must be cooked for at least 2 
hours and the oatmeal should be strained. Prunes and 
spinach should be put through strainer. Prunes may be 
given mixed with the oatmeal. 

Junket makes the milk easier to digest. Directions for 
making on page 58. 

Cook the egg soft and use the soft yolk, hot, on the 
freshly toasted bread crumbs. 

Carrot, lettuce and celery, cooked soft and mashed through 
a strainer, may be used instead of spinach. 

Bacon must be cut thin and fried crisp. The fat from 
the bacon may be eaten with the bread instead of butter. 



120 LOW COST COOKING 

MENU FOR CHILD 2.y 2 YEARS WEIGHT ABOUT 30 POUNDS 

7:00 A.M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
y 2 cup top milk 
2 large prunes 
i cup milk 

10 :oo A. M. 34 cup milk 

i slice toast 

y^ cup carrot pressed through strainer 
i slice bacon 

2 :oo P. M. i cup milk 

I small baked potato 
i egg 

i small baked apple 
i teaspoon sugar 

6 :oo P. M. Milk toast 

(2 slices toast, ^2 cup milk) 

tablespoons hominy with milk (dry) 



The same amount can be arranged in 3 or 5 meals. Some 
physicians are now advising only three meals for children 
even as young as 18 months. Green beans and peas, spinach, 
onion, lettuce and celery cooked soft and mashed fine 
or put through strainer, may be used instead of carrots. 

Orange juice, ripe mashed peaches, apple sauce and the 
juice of almost all fruits not too sour may be used as well 
as those named. 

IMPORTANCE OF BREAKFAST FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN 

No meal is so important to school children as breakfast. 
It is easy for the child to form the habit of running away 
to school without eating at all or with only a cup of coffee. 
This leaves the child all morning with no food to furnish 
the body with material for growth, and will surely have the 
effect of stunting his growth. A cup of coffee is worse 
than no breakfast at all, because the coffee stimulates the 
body and makes it wear out faster. Coffee with a sweet 
roll or cake is almost as bad, as the roll or cake contains 
only a small part of the nourishment the child needs. A 
breakfast of cereal and milk does not cost as much as coffee 
and rolls and gives good material to grow on. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 121 

It is the aim of every intelligent mother to learn how to 
save her children from needless illness. Many mothers 
would like a reliable test by which they may know whether 
their children are perfectly well and developing properly. 
A pamphlet lately published by the National Children's 
Bureau gives these rules : 

Every child should show : 

A steady gain in weight, height and intelligence. 

Good appetite ; clear skin ; bright, wide-open eyes ; con- 
tented expression. 

Very little crying. 

Bowel movements of the normal number, color and 
consistency. 

Quiet, unbroken sleep, with eyes and mouth tightly 
closed. 

It adds that the way to secure these results is by giving 
children proper food at regular times, keeping them clean, 
giving them plenty of sleep at regular hours, fresh air day 
and night, and training them in regular habits of living. 

If a child is not growing and gaining steadily in weight 
there is something wrong and the mother should try to find 
out what it is. The following list will give an idea of the 
weight and height a child of a certain age should have 
attained. 

AVERAGE WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF CHILDREN. 

POUNDS -INCHES 

Boys Girls Boys Girls 

1 year 20.5 19.8 29.0 28.7 

2 years 26.5 25.5 32.5 32.5 

3 years 31.2 30.0 35.0 35.0 

4 years 35-O 34-Q 38.0 38.0 

5 years 41.2 39-8 41-7 4M 

6 years., 45.1 43-8 44-0 43-6 

7 years 49-5 48.0 46.2 45.9 

8 years 54-5 52-9 48.2 48.0 

9 years 60.0 57.5 50. 1 49.6 

10 years 66.6 64.1 52.2 51.8 

11 years 72.4 70.3 54-O 53-8 

12 years 79-8 81.4 55.8 57.1 

13 years 88.3 91.2 58.2 58.7 

14 years 99-3 100.3 61.0 60.3 

15 years 110.08 108.04 63.0 61.4 

16 years 123-7 "3-O 65.6 61.7 



I22 LOW COST COOKING 

GOVERNMENT BULLETINS 

Free. Send to the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

No. 391 Economical Use of Meats in the Home. 

No. 256 Preparation of the Vegetable for the Table. 

No. 203 Canned Fruits, Preserves and Jellies. 

No. 389 Bread and Bread Making. 

No. 565 Corn Meal as Food and Ways of Using It. 

Other Bulletins and Books 

Freehand Cooking on Scientific Principles. 10 cents. American 
School of Home Economics. 

Lessons in Cooking Through Preparation of Meals, Robinson 
and Hammel. $1.50 (cloth edition). American School of Home 
Economics. 

Low Cost Recipes, Jacobs. 75 cents. 

Economical Cooking for Two, Gibbs. 20 cents. 

Housekeeping Notes, Kittredge. 80 cents. 



INDEX 



Accounts, Keeping, 6 

Appetizers, 62 

Apple Baked with Raisins, 85 

Cake, Dutch, 23 

Cobbler, 69 

Jelly, 61 

Sauce, 82, 87 

Tapioca, 99 
Apricots, Dried, 72 

Babies' Food, 118 
Bacon, Fried, 67 
Baked Apple, 85 

Banana, 50, 77 

Beans, 40 

Croquettes, 91 

Fish, 37 

Peas, 40 

Potatoes, 45 

Rhubarb, 53 

Bakery Foods, Cost of, 14 
Baking Powder Biscuits, 24 

Proportions Used, 17 
Balanced Diet, 8 
Banana, Baked, 53, 77 
Bean and Tomato Soup, 52 

Polenta, 73 

Soup, 52 
Beans, Baked, 40 

Boiled with Meat, 71 

Boiled with Tomatoes, 39 

Creamed Kidney, etc., 41 

String, 49 

With Cheese, 39 
Bed Making, 116 
Beef a la Mode, 34 

Soup, 68 

Stew with Vegetables, 32 
Beet Greens, 46, 98 

Salad, 95 
Beets, Boiled, 80 

Buttered, 44 

Pickled, 81 
Beverages, 63 
Biscuits, Baking Powder, 24 

Drop, 24 

Graham, 83 



Boiled Beans with Meat, 71 

Beans with Tomatoes, 39 

Eggs, 38 

Potatoes, 45 

Rice, 30 

Salad Dressing, 48 
Boston Baked Beans, 40 
Brains, 37 

Scrambled with Eggs, 37 
Braised Cutlets, 34 

Heart, 37 

Steak, 77 
Braising, 33 
Bran Bread, 22 
Bread, Bran, 22 

Corn, 26 

Graham, 22 

Rye, 22 

White, 21 

Whole Wheat, 22 
Breakfast Foods, 27 
Brittle, Nut, 58 
Broiling, 35 
Broth, Scotch, 33 
Brown Betty, 53 

Gravy, 93 

Stew, 33 

Sugar Syrup, 79 
Browned Parsnips, 44 
Buying, Economy in, 11 

In Quantity, 15 

Cabbage, Hashed, 44 

Salad, 85 
Cake, 55 

Spice, 100 
Calves' Heart, Fried, 93 

Stuffed, 37 
Cambric Tea, 63 
Candy, 58 

Canned Goods, Cost of, 13 
Caramel, 55 

Cream Candy, 58 

Junket, 58 

Sauce, 56 

Syrup. 67 
Carrots, Creamed, 70 



123 



124 



LOW COST COOKING 



Catsup, Tomato, 62 
Cereal Drinks, 64 
Cereals, Cooking, 28 

Prices of, 12 
Cheese in Cream Gravy, 42 

With Beans, 39 

With Potatoes, 45 
Children, Feeding and Care of, 116 

Menus for Young, 119 

Milk for, 9 

Protein for, 9 

Weight and Height of, 121 
Children's Drinks, 62 

Food, 7, 113 

Work, Program for, 114 
Chocolate Cake, 96 

Cream Pudding, 54 

Sauce, 56 
Chopped Meats, 34 
Cinnamon Rolls, 22 

Rolls, Baking Powder, 25 

Tea, 63, 73 

Cobbler, Dried Apple, 69 
Cocoa, 62 

Shells, 64 
Coddled Eggs, 94 
Codfish Hash, 95 
Coffee, 62, 67 

Cake, 23 

Cold Lunches, 112 
Composition of Foods, Table of, 16 
Cookies, Oatmeal, 57 

Bran, 57 

Corn Beef with Vegetables, 82 
Corn Bread, 26 

Shortened, 26 

Southern, 71 
Corn Meal Griddle Cakes, 66 

Mush, 81 
Corn on Cob, 34 

Pone, 26 

Cost of Month's Menus, 107 
Cottage Pudding, 56 
Cream of Bean Soup, 51 
Lima Bean Soup, 51 
Navy Bean Soup, 94 
Sauce, 42 
Soups, 50 
Cream Toast, 95 
Creamed Carrots, 70 
Kidney Beans, etc., 41 



Lima Beans, 41 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 45 

Rutabaga, 85 

Salt Fish, 42 

Salt Pork, 76 

Vegetables, 44 
Croquettes, Baked, 91 

Meat, 36 
Croutons, 50 
Crust for Cobbler, 69 
Cucumber Pickle, 62 
Cup Cakes, 56 

Desserts and Sweets, 53 

Flavoring for, 55 
Diet, Balanced, 8 
Disawashing, 115 
Dressing for Fish, 37 

Salad, 48 
Dried Apple Cobbler, 69 

Apricots and Peaches, 72 

Foods, Cost of, 13 

Fruits, 53 

Drinks for Children, 63 
Drinks, Summer, 64 
Dumplings for StewiS, 33 
Dusting, 116 

Eating, Habits of, 118 
Economy in Buying, 11 
Eggs, Coddled, 94 

Cooking of, 38 

Scrambled, 84 

Scrambled with Potatoes, 38 

Scrambled with Tomatoes, 38 
English Monkey, 100 

Farina Mush, 92 

With Date Sauce, 28 
Fats, Economical, 12, 66 
Feeding of Children, 117 
Fig Preserves, 61 
Figs, Stewed, 78 
Fireless Cooker, Home-made, 110 
Fireless Cooking, Time Table for, 

111 
Fish, 37 

Cakes, 95 
Flank Steak, Braised, 77 

Broiled, 35 



INDEX 



12 



Flavor, Cost of, 14 
Flavoring for Desserts, 55 
Food and the Body, 6 

For Babies, 118 

For Children, 117 

For the Child, 7, 113 
Foods, Composition of, 16 

For Building and Repair, 8 

Furnishing Energy, 7 

Furnishing Minerals, 19 
French Salad Dressing, 93 

Toast, 27 
Fried Bacon Strips, 67 

With Eggs, 98 
Fried Calves, Heart, 93 

Corn Meal Mush, 29 

Hominy Mush, 78 

Salt Pork, 76 
Frozen Desserts, 59 
Fruit Ice, 59 

Puddings, Steamed, 54 

Toast, 88 

Ginger Bread, 57, 80 
Graham Biscuits, 83 

Bread, 22 

Mush, 72 

Grain Products, 21 
Greens, Beet, etc., 46 
Griddle Cakes, 25 

Corn, 25 

Rice, 26, 90 

Stale Bread, 25 

Habits of Eating, 118 
Hamburger Steak, 37 

With Tomatoes, 87 
Ham with Peas, 40 
Hashed Cabbage, etc., 44 

Kohlrabi, 87 

Potatoes, 45 

Spinach, 99 

Turnips, 44 
Heart, Fried, 93 

Stuffed, 37 
Hominy Baked with Cheese, 82 

Mush, Fried, 28, 78 
Hot Breads, 23 

Ice Cream, 59 
Indian Pudding, 54 



Jam, Date and Prune, 61 
Jollies, CO 
Jungle Stew, 41 
Junket, Caramel, 58 

Kidney Bean Loaf, 41 
Kitchen Utensils, 19 
Kohlrabi, 47 
Hashed, 87 

Lamb Stew, 33 

With Rice, 97 
Legumes, 37 
Lemon Sauce, 56 

Jelly, 58 
. Lentil Loaf, 40 

Stew, 47 

Lentils with Rice, 29 
Lettuce and Green Onion Salad, 93 

With Cheese, 94 
Lightning Cake, 56 
Lima Bean Puree, 77 

Bean Succotash, 42 
Lima Beans with Barley, 27 
Loaf, Lentil, etc., 40 
Lunch for School Children, 118 
Luncheon, Cereal Dishes, 29 
Lunches, Cold, 112 

Making Beds, 116 
Marmalade, Rhubarb, 61 
Mashed Potatoes, 45 
Measurements in Cooking, 20 
Meat Balls, 34 

Croquettes, 36 

Loaf, 35, 85 

Pie, 36 

Scalloped, 35, 36 

Soup, 68 
Meats, 31 
Menus, 65 

For Young Children, 119 

Summer, 104 

Winter, 101 
Milk for Children, 9 

Sour, in Cooking, 23 
Minerals, Food Furnishing, 10 
Muffins, Berry, 23 

Bran, 24 

Graham, etc., 23 

Oatmeal, 24 



126 



LOW COST COOKING 



Rice, 24 

Rice and Corn Meal, 79 

Rye, 23, 76 

White Flour, 23 
Mush, Cereal, 28 
Mutton Stew, 33 

Navy Bean Soup, 52 
Navy Beans with Rice, 29 
Nut Brittle, 58 
Nutmeg Sauce, 56 

Oatmeal, 28 

Cookies, 57 

Mush, 70 

Muffins, 24 

Soup, 29 

With Potatoes, 29 

With Raisins, 28 
Oleomargarine, 13, 14 
Onions, Scalloped, 44 

Panbroiled Flank Steak, 35 

Round Steak, 35 
Pantry, The, 19 
Parsnips, Browned, 44 
Peas, Baked, 40 

Green, 47 

With Carrots, 41 

With Ham, 40 
Pickled Beets, 81 
Pickles, 62 
Pie, Meat, 36 
Pilaf, Turkish, 36 
Plain Cake, 55 
Planked Fish, 37 
Poached Eggs, 38 
Polenta, 27 

Bean, 73 
Potato Cakes, 86 

Soup, 52 

Potatoes, Cooking, 44 
Pot Roast, 34 

With Vegetables, 89 
Preserves, 60 
Protein, 8 

For Adults, 19 

For Children, 9 
Prune and Date Jam, 61 
Prune Rolls, 22 



Pudding, Chocolate, 54 

Cottage, 56 

Indian, 53 

Rice, 53 

Steamed Fruit, 54 

Tapioca, 99 
Puree of Lima Beans, 77 

Pea, etc., 51 

Quick Cup Cakes, 56 

Raisins, Stewed, 82 

Rarebit, Rice and Cheese, 87 

Rhubarb and Fig Preserves, 61 

Baked, 53 

Marmalade, 61 

Sauce, 86 

Tapioca, 97 
Rice, Boiled, 30 

Griddle Cakes, 26, 90 

Muffins, 24 

Pudding, 53 

Soup, 79 

Steamed, 89 

With Cheese, 30 

With Fruit, 53 

With Lentils, 29 

With Navy Beans, 29 

With Stewed Fruit, 30 

With Tomatoes, 30, 68 
Riced Potatoes, 87 
Rolls, 22 

Rutabagas, Creamed, 44, 85 
Rye Bread, 22 

Muffins, 23, 76 

Salad, Cabbage, 85 

Dressing, 48 

Dressing, French, 93 
Salads, 48 
Salt Fish Hash, 95 

Pork in Milk Gravy, 76 

Proportion to Use, 7 

Scalloped, 80 
Sandwiches, 112 
Sauce, Chocolate, etc., 56 
Savory Rice, 30 
Scalloped Meat, 30, 36 

Meats, 35 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 44 



INDEX 



127 



Salt Fish, 80 

Tomatoes, 84 
Scotch Broth, 33 
Scrambled Eggs, 38, 84 
Setting the Table, 18 
Sherbet, 59 
Soft Cooked Eggs, 38 
Soup, Beef, 68 

Oatmeal, 29 

Rice, 79 
Soups, 49 
Sour Beets, 81 

Cream Soup, 51 

Milk, in Cooking, 23 
Southern Corn Bread, 71 
Spice Cake, 100 
Spinach, 46 

With Eggs, 99 
Split Pea Loaf, 91 

With Carrots, 41, 88 
Steak, Braised, 77 

Hamburger, 37 

Pan Broiled, 35 
Steamed Fruit Pudding, 54 

Rice, 30, 89 
Stewed Figs, 78 

Raisins, 82 
Stews, 32 

Vegetables, 41 

With Vegetables, 73 
String Beans, 47 
Stuffed Heart, 37 
Succotash, 42 
Suet Pudding, 57 
Summer Drinks, 64 

Menus, 104 

Vegetables, 46 
Supper Cereal Dishes, 29 



Sweeping and Dusting, 110 
Sweet Potatoes, 46 
Syrup, Brown Sugar, 79 
Caramel, 67 

Table Setting, 18 
Tapioca, Apple, etc., 99 
Tea, 63, 68 

Cinnamon, 73 

Toast, 71 
Thickening, Proportions of Flour 

for, 17 
Toast, 26 

Cream, 27, 96 

French, 27 

Milk, 27 

Tea, 64, 71 
Tomato Catsup, 62 

Salad, 48 

Tomatoes Scalloped, 84 
Tripe, 27 
Turkish Pilaf, 36 

Veal Stew, 32 
Vegetable Stew, 41, 73 
Vegetables, Cooking, 43 

Washing Dishes, 115 
Watermelon Rind Pickle, 62 
White Bread, 21 

Sauce, 42, 70 

Sauce, Thick, 85 
Whole Wheat Bread, 22 
Winter Meals, 66 

Menus, 101 

Vegetables, 43 

Yeast Bread, 21 




circumstances 



to be 



^~2rET= 



aUen 




f, ,1-ni H" 



rb 



No.^M^^^ Y 



^ 




CAUTION 

Do not write in this book or mark it with 
pen or pencil. Penalties are imposed bj^ the 
Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of Mas- 
sachusetts, Chapter 208, Section 83. 

JUN 56 



NOV m ■' 

JAN 17 ■ 



B.P.L. FORM NO. 609; 3.8.30; SOQlt 



Low Cost Cooking 



BY 

FLORENCE NESBITT, B.A. 

FIELD SUPERVISOR AND DIETITIAN, DEPARTMENT OF RELIEF, JUVENILE COURT OF 

CHICAGO ; LECTURER FOR THE CHICAGO VISITING NURSES' ASSOCIATION ; 

FORMERLY VISITING HOUSEKEEPER OF THE UNITED 

CHARITIES OF CHICAGO 



A MANUAL OF COOKING, DIET, HOME MANAGEMENT 

AND CARE OF CHILDREN FOR HOUSEKEEPERS 

WHO MUST CONDUCT THEIR HOMES WITH 

SMALL EXPENDITURE OF MONEY 



(/(^^^ 



i[ 



y 




.•^^ 



CHICAGO 

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

1915 



Copyright 1915 

BY 

Home Economics Association 



CONTENTS 



Business of Home-Making .... 

Food and the Body 

A Well-Balanced Diet 

Economy in Buying 

Tables of Composition and FivcroiaioN . 

Setting the Table 

Ceneral Household Directions 

General Recipes 

Week's Menu for Winter with Directions 
Week's Menu for Summer with Directions 
Additional Three Weeks' Menus for Winter 
Additional Three Weeks' Menus for Summer 

Calculation of Cost 

Household Helps — 

1. Home-Made Fireless .... 

2. Cold Lunches 

3. When Mother Works Oui side the IIo:.:e 
Feeding and Care of Children. 

Index 



PAGE 

• 5 
7 

• 9 
II 

. 16 
18 

. 19 
21 

. 66 
86 

. lOI 

104 
. 107 

no 

. 112 
113 

22Z 



LOW COST COOKING 



THE BUSINESS OF HOME-MAKING 

IN MANY ways the business of home-making is the 
most important one in the world. To carry it on suc- 
cessfully requires no less thought, study and work than 
the merchant or mechanic gives to his business. Success 
is well repaid and failure brings wretchedness. The suc- 
cessful home-maker has well-fed, well-kept, well-trained 
children and a husband who, through proper home care, is 
made able to do his work and earn the money needed to 
pay the expenses of the home. The unsuccessful home- 
maker very often has sickly, poorly-developed children 
and a husband whose work is made less productive by the 
poor home conditions ; or, in many cases, one who satisfies 
with strong drink the craving left by lack of proper food. 

With plenty of money the average woman can easily 
furnish her family with comfortable living conditions and 
good food. The smaller the amount of money on which the 
home must be run and food bought the greater is the need 
of the home-maker for wisdom and skill in management. 
This book is compiled especially for the woman who has 
little money to spend, the endeavor being to give, as simply 
as possible, the things she most needs to know in order to 
get the best results from her money. Many women who 
are compelled to manage with the smallest possible amount 
have helped greatly in making the book by giving recipes 
and plans which they have found useful in their attempts 
to economize. 

Economizing on food is a most dangerous thing to try 
unless the housekeeper has an understanding of food values. 

5 



6 LOW COST COOKING 

She must know what foods are necessary for the health 
of her family and in what food materials she gets the most 
for her money, to be able to decide where it is wise and 
safe to cut and where unsafe. 

Every mother should study these things carefully, for she 
has the health and well being of her family in her keeping. 

Keeping Accounts 

No good business man would try to run his business 
without keeping books to show him just where his affairs 
stand, which purchases have been wise and which unwise. 
Keeping accounts is just as desirable in the business of 
housekeeping as in that of shop-keeping. It is much sim- 
pler, of course, and the housekeeper needs only a blank book 
in which she sets down each day the things she has bought, 
and the money she has received. For example : 

July 1st — 2 heads lettuce $ .05 

1 peck apples 20 

10 pounds sugar 50 

2 pounds chopped meat 30 

$1.05 

July 2nd — 2 bunches carrots $ .05 

I bushel potatoes 30 etc. 

The housekeeper who goes thoughtfully over her own 
accounts at the end of each week or month will learn much 
from them. 

WHAT FOOD MUST DO FOR THE BODY 

We put coal, gas and other fuel into an engine so it can 
have the power to work. In exactly the same way w^e must 
give food to our bodies, so that ©ur muscles can do the 
work that we wish them to do. But giving this power to 
work or "energy" to the body is not the only use of food. 
The body is itself being constantly worn out, not only by 
the outside work it does but by its inside work; that is, 



FOOD AND THE BODY 7 

by the beating of the heart, workings of the stomach and 
other organs. It takes various kinds of food to repair 
these worn-out parts, and if they are not repaired just as 
fast as they are worn out, weak places are left in the body 
where disease germs may easily grow and it becomes dis- 
eased, perhaps tuberculous ; or, escaping disease, the body 
is worn out and old when it should be still young and strong. 

Food for the Child 

The child, too, needs a great deal of food for energy as 
it is always moving about in play or work, and it also needs 
the food to repair the worn-out parts of its body just as 
the adult does. Besides all this, it needs food to grow on. 
There is no other way for the child to get the stuff to make 
larger bones and muscles except from its food. Give the 
child all the food it needs and it will have a good chance 
to grow a large, strong, healthy body. If it does not get 
all of the different kinds of food it needs and enough of 
them, it cannot possibly be strong and well. Perhaps the 
growth will be stunted, and the child will not become a 
well-grown man or woman ; perhaps it will grow large, but 
will have weak spots in its body where disease germs can 
easily grow, so that it is apt to take any disease to which it 
is exposed, such as scarlet fever, diphtheria or tubercu- 
losis. The city child must be exposed to some of these dis- 
eases, but if its body is strong and clean it will have a good 
chance to escape taking them. For these reasons proper 
food is of even more importance to the child than to the 
adult. 

Foods Furnishing Energy 

The body can use all kinds of food for energy to work 
on, but the best and cheapest for this purpose are the 
ones that contain starch, sugar and fat. 



8 LOW COST COOKING 

The chief foods which contain starch are: cereals, flour 
and meals of all kinds, legumes (beans, peas and lentils) 
and some vegetables such as potatoes and sweet potatoes. 

Many vegetables and fruits such as carrots, oranges, etc., 
contain sugar, but we get most of our sugar in the pure 
form which has been taken from the juices of sugar cane 
and sugar beet. 

The chief foods which contain fat are the fat parts of 
meat, lard, suet, butter and cream, cheese, cottonseed oil, 
olive oil, and nuts. 

Foods for Building and Repairing the Body 

To repair the worn-out muscles and other tissues of the 
body, a substance called protein is necessary. It is found 
in all foods, but in largest quantities in such foods as meat, 
milk, fish, eggs and cheese. 

To build and repair the bones and to keep the body clean, 
strong and able to resist disease, many different kinds of 
minerals are needed such as lime, iron, sulphur, etc. For 
these we depend chiefly on fruits and vegetables, although 
other foods, especially milk and eggs, contain valuable 
minerals. 

Balanced Diet 

A diet which furnishes all of these things which the body 
needs in the right amount is called a "well-balanced diet." 
It must contain some high protein foods such as meat, milk, 
eggs, cheese and fish, for building and repairing; much 
starch, fat and sugar for energy, and also vegetables and 
fruits to provide the minerals needed. Too much protein 
foods will cause disturbances of the kidneys. Too much 
starch or fat will cause digestive troubles. Too much sugar 
will produce anaemia and cause disturbances of digestion. 

In general, a diet for an adult will be well-balanced if it 
contains meat or fish once a day with a little milk and an 



CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED DIET 9 

egg occasionally; a cereal once; another vegetable besides 
potatoes once, with fruit twice per day, or vegetable twice 
and fruit once. In addition the diet should include as much 
bread and potatoes and some kind of fat as the normal 
appetite demands. This is simple enough when there is 
plenty of money, but when it must be done on a small 
income it becomes a very hard thing to do. 



HOW TO HAVE A CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED 

DIET 

The following classes of food are the ones that give the 
body the greatest amount of energy for the money, and 
must be used in large quantities by the housekeeper who 
wishes to feed her family well for a small amount of money. 

Cereals, which include everything made from grains, 
such as flour from which we make bread, macaroni, etc., as 
well as oatmeal, cornmeal, rice, rye, etc. 

Legumes, which include all kinds of beans and peas, also 
lentils and peanuts. 

Cheaper Forms of Fat, such as suet, lard, oleo, peanut 
oil, cottonseed oil, etc. 

These alone would make a cheap diet, but a very poor 
one. To them must be added foods which furnish more 
protein than these have for building and repairing the body, 
and those that furnish the mineral elements necessary for 
keeping the body in health. 

Protein for Children 

For children milk is the best high protein food. Only 
milk from gocKj dairies should be given children, and this 
as a rule is the same price with all of the dairies in the same 
town. In Chicago it costs 8 cents per quart. When skim 
milk can be bought at 3 cents to 4 cents per quart it enables 



10 LOW COST COOKING 

the housekeeper to economize a little on her milk bill. When 
milk is skimmed the fat is removed, but the protein and 
minerals remain, so that it is still a very valuable food. 

AMOUNT OF MILK DESIRABLE FOR CHILDREN. 

T pint to I quart per day for each child under 2 years. 
I pint to 1Y2 pints per day for each child 2 to 5 years. 
I pint at least per day for each child 5 to 9 years. 
I pint if possible per day for older children. 

Eggs are the next best protein food for children. When 

they are cheap they should be given in abundance; when 

expensive as many as can be afforded. Meat should be 

given only in very small quantities to young children. 

Protein for Adults 

In order to buy the necessary amount of milk for the 
children, the protein foods for the grown up part of the 
family must be bought very economically. American brick 
cheese can be bought at from 19 cents to 22 cents per 
pound, and cottage cheese at 10 cents per pound, and at 
these prices are cheap protein food. Eggs are fairly cheap 
at certain times in the year, at other times far too expensive 
for general use. They are easily digested and very desir- 
able for children and invalids. 

Meat may be very expensive or quite inexpensive accord- 
ing to the way in which it is bought. There is about the 
same amount of nourishment in the cheaper cuts as in 
more expensive ones. As a rule the cheaper cuts of meat 
require longer cooking to make them tender and palatable, 
so that in some cases the cost of fuel must be reckoned. 
In winter, however, the fire that is used for cooking is also 
needed for heat, and in summer a fireless cooker will save 
almost all of the extra fuel needed for the long cooking. 

Foods Furnishing Mineral 

The body cannot long remain healthy without vegetables 
and fruits. Those who are entirely cut off from these 



ECONOMY IN BUYING II 

foods are apt to be attacked by the horrible disease, scurvy, 
found chiefly in shipwrecks and in besieged cities. This 
condition is rare, but less serious skin diseases, and constipa- 
tion, with its attending train of diseases, are very common 
among those who have not enough of this class of foods. 

This is an expensive part of the diet and can be managed 
at small cost only by watching the market closely and buy- 
ing the articles cheapest at the time. In the winter when 
there are no fruits in season and green vegetables are 
expensive, the dried fruits and winter vegetables, such as 
carrots, rutabagas and onions can be used. 

Fresh fruit should be used at all times when the price 
will permit. 

Milk is also very valuable as a source of the minerals 
needed. The growing child who has sufficient milk rarely 
suffers from rickets as there is enough lime in the amount 
of milk recommended above to provide for properly build- 
ing the bones of the growing child. 

ECONOMY IN BUYING 

These are a few of the things every woman who tries to 
get the greatest value for the money she spends for food 
should always keep in mind: 

Work of Others 

If someone else bakes your bread, cakes or pies, cooks 
your meat, cans your vegetables, makes your jelly and jam, 
pays for advertising these things and then sells them to you, 
you must pay him well for all his work by paying a high 
price for the food he has prepared for you. 

Take for instance a cereal, and we can easily see just hov/ 
much we pay for this work. Cornmeal sells in bulk for 
2^ cents per pound. A business firm packs the same sort 
of cornmeal, puts it into a package, names it, advertises 



12 LOW COST COOKING 

it and sells it for 5 cents per pound. Another firm puts corn 
through a cooking and rolling process, makes it into corn 
flakes, puts it in a package, names it, advertises it and sells 
it for 16 cents per pound. The amount of food in the corn 
product remains about the same, but we must pay nearly 
six times as much for the cornflakes as for the cornmeal, 
in order to pay for the work done on it. The following 
table shows how much we pay for cereals by buying them 
in different ways : 

TABLE OF CEREALS WITH PRICES. 

Cornmeal (bulk) 2j/^c per lb. 

Cornmeal (package) 30 oz. for loc, which is 5 1/3C a lb. 

Cornflakes, 10 oz. for loc, which is i6c per lb. 

Oatmeal (bulk) 3c to 5c a lb. 

Oatmeal, lo-lb. sack for 39c, which is 3 9/ioc a lb. 

Oatmeal (package) 22 oz. for loc, which is 7c a lb. 

Farina (bulk) 5c a lb. 

Farina (package), 14 oz. for loc, which is iij^c a lb. 

Rice (broken) 3c to 5c a lb. 

Rice (whole) 7c to 12c a lb. 

Rice (puffed) 15 oz. for 15c, which is i6c a lb. 

Economical Forms of Fat 

The most expensive fats in common use are cream, but- 
ter and olive oil. Cheaper forms are meat fats, such as 
suet, lard, salt pork, bacon, tallow and oleomargarine ; veg- 
etable oils, such as cottonseed and peanut oil. The most 
important difference between these different kinds is the 
difference in flavor. The first three are also more easily 
digested than any of the cheaper forms except bacon. 

In famihes where there are children it is better to buy 
as much milk as possible instead of cream or butter, since 
we get in this way the cream and butter fat, as well as 
all the other valuable food the milk contains. 

Bacon is also a very useful fat where there are small 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 13 

children, as it is easily digested. A child one year old can 
take crisply fried bacon. It is one of the most expensive 
forms of fat if it is bought from the *'best" brands, sliced, 
10 cents worth at a time. It is one of the most inexpensive 
if bought in the form of "bacon brisket," "bacon strips," 
"bacon butts," which are the odd-shaped trimmings from 
the sides of the bacon and are sold by the piece at from 
14 to 22 cents per pound. 

Oleomargarine is a useful and desirable substitute for 
butter. (See page 14.) Some housekeepers make a sub- 
stitute of their own, using freshly rendered leaf lard and 
suet, pleasantly flavored with onion, thyme and other savory 
herbs. 

The economical housekeeper will do well to buy leaf fat 
at 10 to 12 cents per pound and render it herself into lard. 
Cut it into small pieces and heat carefully in oven or on 
top of stove until the fat is fried out and the scraps are 
crisp but not brown. These crisp bits ("cracklings") may 
be mashed fine and used instead of drippings in making 
shortened corn bread. 

Cost of Canned Foods 

A i2-ounce can of baked beans costs 10 cents. The raw 
beans, tomatoes and fat pork which it takes to make an 
equal amount of baked beans, costs about 2J/2 cents. 

A i2-ounce can of soup costs 10 cents. Home-made 
soup of similar quality can be made for about 2^ cents. 

Other canned vegetables and fruits are not quite so 
expensive by comparison, but a careful housekeeper can 
save much by avoiding canned goods, choosing instead the 
vegetables in season which are the cheapest. 

Cost of Dried Foods 

Drying is one of the least expensive ways of preserving 
foods; therefore dried fruits are inexpensive in winter in 



14 LOW COST COOKING 

comparison with fresh fruit or canned fruit, and dried 
meats and fish often less expensive than fresh. Fresh 
apples at 24 cents per peck are equal in expense to dried 
apples at 12 cents per pound, but when apples are 50 cents 
per peck the dried ones cost only one-half as much. It 
takes a peck of fresh apples to make 2 pounds of dried 
apples. Dried sweet corn is cheap and valuable for giving 
variety to the winter diet. 

Cost of Bakery and Other Cooked Foods 

The baker's loaf (12 ounces) of bread costs about twice 
as much as the flour, yeast, etc., that it takes to make a 
loaf of the same weight at home. Rolls, cakes, pies, etc., 
cost more than twice as much as the home-made of the 
same quality. 

Boiled ham and beef cost about four times as much as 
raw, and jellies and preserves are about three times as ex- 
pensive as home-made ones of the same quality. 

This is not counting the cost of fuel. The large part of 
the year when the cook stove is used also for heat, this need 
not be considered at all. When fire must be especially pro- 
vided for the baking, the saving is, of course less, but the 
careful housewife will use her fuel to the best advantage 
by baking on washing or ironing day and in other ways 
using all of the heat produjced. 

Cost of Flavor 

In many foods, the only difference between the expensive 
kinds and the inexpensive ones is the difference in flavor. 
This is the chief difference between butter and oleomar- 
gerine. Oleomargerine is a mixture of the best quality of 
lard and suet churned with cream, which adds some of 
the flavor and a percentage of butter to it. It is made 
under careful United States Government supervision so that 
it must be clean and wholesome. The uncolored oleo gives 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 15 

the best value for the money, as there is a tax of 10 cents 
per pound on the colored. It may be colored at home if 
desired with the coloring matter usually furnished. Nearly 
all butter is colored. One pound of oleo costs about one- 
half as much as good butter and contains only a little less 
food than the pound of butter. 
Differences in price of meats is partly a matter of flavor. 

Foods Out of Season 

When foods out of season are bought, we must pay 
enough for them to cover the cost of keeping them in cold 
storage. For example, the apples sold in the spring have 
been kept for six months or more in cold storage, and this 
makes them very expensive. Always try to find out what 
fruits and vegetables are in season and the cheapest to be 
had at the time, and buy these, waiting for the others until 
the time for their season comes. In winter when all fresh 
fruits are out of season, dried fruits can be used. 

Buying in Quantity 

Buying each day just the amount of things which are to 
be used that day is very wasteful. Better weight is given 
to the customer who buys in large quantities, and usually 
the price is lower. Try buying 10 pounds of sugar and see 
how much longer it lasts than five 2-pound packages. When 
you buy so many small packages you are paying for a large 
amount of paper at the same price you pay for food. If the 
housekeeper gets her money once per month, she will save 
by buying all of the staples, such as sugar, flour, potatoes, 
cured meats, rice, dried beans, peas, lentils, cofifee, tea, dried 
fruits, etc., that she will need for the month. If she gets 
her money once per week, she will probably not be able to 
buy in such large quantities, but she can buy enough of 
these things to last the week. 



i6 



LOW COST COOKING 



COMPOSITION OF RAW FOODS. 
Parts in lOO (Approximate). 
Cereal Products. 



Wheat flour ....12 water 11 protein 75 starch 

Corn meal 12 water 9 protein 75 starch 

Oat meal 7 water 16 protein 67 starch 

Macaroni 10 water 13 protein 74 starch 

Rice 12 water 8 protein 79 starch 

Legumes. 

Beans and peas.. 13 water 24 protein 60 starch 

High Protein Foods. 



fat 
fat 
fat 
fat 
fat 



Food units 
in I lb. 
1,640 
1,650 
1,860 
1,665 
1,630 



Beef (round). ..65 water 
Mutton (leg)... 50 water 

Fowl 47 water 

Fish (salt) 53 water 

Fish (fresh) 82 water 

Eggs (nine) 74 water 

Milk (i pint).. 87 water 

Cheese ZZ water 

Nuts 3 v/ater 



20 protem 

15 protein 
14 protein 

25 protein 

16 protein 
13 protein 
3 protein 5 sugar 

26 protein 
20 protein 15 starch 

Fats. 

Salt pork (fat) 8 water 2 protein 

Bacon (medium fat) 17 water 9 protein 

Butter II water i protein 

Oleo 10 water i protein 

Lard, oils, crisco, etc 



Food units 
in I lb. 
2 fat 1,655 

Food units 

in I lb. 

950 

890 

765 
410 
350 
720 
310 
2,000 
3,000 

Food units 
in I lb. 
3,670 
2,795 
3,490 
3,410 
4,220 



13 fat 
15 fat 
15 fat 
1/2 fat 
Yz fat 
10 fat 
4 fat 
2>2> fat 
55 fat 



86 fat 
62 fat 
85 fat 
83 fat 
100 fat 



Vegetables. 



Food units 
in I lb. 
Lettuce, celery, etc., 94 water, i protein, 3 starch and sugar, 

^ fat 85 

Carrots, string beans, parsnips, etc., 85 water, i protein, 9 

to 12 starch and sugar, J^ fat 210 

Turnips, cabbage, kohlrabi, etc., 90 water, i protein, 8 

starch and sugar, >2 f at 185 

Potato, white, 78 water, 2 protein, 18 starch, Yz fat 385 

Potato, sweet, 69 water, 2 protein, 27 starch and sugar, Y2 

fat 570 



Fresh Fruits. 



Food units 
in I lb. 
Apples, oranges, peaches, etc., 84 water, Y2 protein, 14 

sugar and starch 210 

Tomatoes, 95 water, i protein, 4 sugar and starch 105 



TABLES OF COMPOSITION AND PROPORTIONS 17 

Dried Fruits. ^""l^T^^ 

in I lb. 

Apples, apricots, etc., 28 water, 3 protein, 64 sugar and 

starch, 1^/2 fat 1,320 

Dates, 15 water, 2 protein, 78 sugar and starch, 3 fat 1,615 

Prunes, raisins, etc., 22 water, 2 protein, 7s sugar and 

starch, 2 fat 1,400 

Sugar, 100 sugar 1,820 

All of the above foods except the sugar, lard and oils contain 
from J/2 to 2 per cent mineral matter, which does not increase their 
food units but are of great value in the diet. Butter and cheese 
have 2 to 3 per cent of common salt added. 

There is also a percentage of refuse in most of food materials 
which is largest in the meats. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

For Thickening 

1 level tablespoon of flour will thicken i cupful of 
liquid for soups. 

2 level tablespoons of flour will thicken I cupful of 
liquid for gravy. 

3 level tablespoons of browned-flour will thicken i 
cupful of liquid for gravy. 

Use one-half as much cornstarch as flour. 

Use two level tablespoons of cornstarch to i cup of 
liquid for pudding. 

Use one egg to one cup of milk for soft custard. 

Use two eggs to one cup of milk for stiff custard. 

Use one tablespoon of granulated gelatin to one pint 
liquid if cooled on ice. 

Rising Agents 

Use two level teaspoons baking powder to one cup 
flour in making muffins, biscuits, griddle cakes and cakes. 
If well-beaten eggs are used in cake leave out one-half 
teaspoon of baking powder for each egg used. 

Use one-half level teaspoon of soda with one cup of 
sour milk. 

Use one teaspoon of soda with one cup of molasses. 

For Doughs and Batters 

Use one-third cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing biscuits. 

Use one-half cup of liquid for each cup of flour in 
making muffins. 

Use two-thirds cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing griddle cakes. 

For Salting 

Use one teaspoonful of salt for one quart of liquid. 
Use 1/2 teaspoonful of salt for one cup of flour for 
bread, etc. 



l8 LOW COST COOKING 

SETTING THE TABLE 

If a tablecloth is used, spread it evenly on the table so 
that the edges hang down the same length at each side and 
end. It is often much better, particularly where there are 
young children, to use doilies instead of a tablecloth in 
order to save washing. The doilies may be made 12 to 18 
inches square of white or colored linen, Japanese toweling, 
or of any kind of white cloth. The coarse muslin of flour 
sacks bleached white and neatly hemmed or hemstitched 
makes very nice ones. If doilies are used, place one in the 
center of the table, one under the meat dish, and one under 
each plate. If this makes too much washing, one in the 
center only may be used, leaving the rest of the table bare. 

Place the plates an even distance apart, right side up 
and one inch from the edge of the table. 

Place knife at right, sharp edge toward the plate, fork 
at left, tines up, spoon beside knife, bowl up. The napkin 
lies neatly folded or in a ring beside the fork. Place tum- 
bler for water at right. 

Be sure that bread and butter, water, salt, pepper, sugar 
and other things needed for the meal are on the table. 
Serve hot things on hot plates and dishes and cold things as 
cold as possible. Luke warm food is nearly always distaste- 
ful. One way to heat plates is to leave them for a short 
time in hot water; another way is to put them in warm 
oven but they may crack and discolor if set in a hot oven. 

Every child should be taught while still young that be- 
fore coming to the table his hair and clothing must be 
neat and his face and hands freshly washed. Much ill 
health is caused by children being allowed to eat with dirty, 
germ-covered hands. 



GENERAL HOUSEHOLD DIRECTIONS 
The Kitchen 

The kitchen is the heart of the home and the whole fam- 
ily rejoices in its wholesome cleanliness. Dirt may be 
tolerated better in any other part of the house than in 
the kitchen, which is the workshop for preparing food. No 
room is more attractive than a kitchen which is shiningly 
clean and contains only the things necessary for the work 
done there, and these arranged in a convenient and orderly 

way. 

Kitchen Utensils 

Keep the cooking utensils where you can get at them 
easily. Hang them on hooks or place on shelves near where 
they are used. A narrow shelf near the stove, with tea and 
cofifee pots and supply cans, salt, pepper, kettle, cooking 
spoon and fork, will save many steps. Hang dishpan, drain- 
er and towels, also vegetable knife, can opener, saucepans, 
near the sink. Near the kitchen table have all the prepar- 
ing dishes and tools. Keep each thing always in the same 
place so as not to waste time hunting for it zvhen needed. 

The Pantry 

The pantry should be the cleanest, sweetest smelling part 
of the house. If there is the slightest musty or disagree- 
able odor, the source of it should be found and removed. 
Stale odors in the pantry are often caused by foods being 
shut in there while still warm. Leave left-over food ex- 
posed to the open air until it is cold, when it should be 
covered closely and put away in the coolest possible place. 

A shiningly clean pantry well stocked with food sup- 
plies is the pride of every good housekeeper. 

19 



20 LOW COST COOKING 

No food should ever he left standing in paper sacks. 
Roaches and ants as well as dust and dirt can get into the 
sacks and make the food unclean. Glass jars with tight 
lids are best for sugar, rice, coffee, etc., but tin cans and 
boxes or crockery jars with tight lids are good. A strip of 
paper with the name of the article on it should be pasted 
on the outside of the vessel. Tin or crockery is best for 
flour and bread. 

Personal Care 

Before beginning to cook, make sure that hands and 
nails are perfectly clean and the hair neatly dressed. Wear 
a wash dress or a big wash apron over the dress. 

Measurements 

All measurements used in these recipes are LEVEL. 
Unless this is kept in mind, the recipes will all turn out 
wrong. 

To get a level tablespoon of flour fill the spoon and 
scrape off the top with the edge of a knife, leaving it ex- 
actly level full. It takes 2 tablespoons measured in this 
way to equal one rounded tablespoonful. 

For a cup of flour sift the flour, lift it into the cup with 
a tablespoon and scrape it off the top of the cup with a 
knife, leaving it just level full. A measuring cup should 
always be used. The tin ones cost 5 cents. 

It takes 3 teaspoons to make one tablespoon; 16 table- 
spoons equal one cup; 2 cups equal one pint. 



GENERAL RECIPES 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 

Cereal grains such as wheat, corn, rye and oats are of- 
fered for sale in various forms to be used as food. The 
coarser ground forms are used for mushes, soups and 
gruels and the finely ground flours for bread, cake and 
pastry. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour VA tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 compressed yeast cakes 

2 tablespoons sugar stirred into ^ cup of 
2 tablespoons lard or other fat lukewarm water 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the yeast and about 
5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining flour 
and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and knead 
until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased pan, 
greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean cloth. 
Place where it will keep at a warm, even temperature. 
When the dough has raised to double its size, which will be 
in about i^^ hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the com- 
mon bakers' loaf, which weighs I2 ounces. This recipe will 
make eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 

21 



22 LOW COST COOKING 

or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooHng. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

A good loaf of bread is light, evenly raised, has a crisp 
golden-brown crust and a fine-grained tender crumb. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour I tablespoon lard or other fat 

Yz cup sugar or molasses i tablespoon salt 

I compressed yeast cake stirred into J4 cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread; if caraway seeds are desired add i 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Graham or Whole Wheat Bread 

3 cups white flour i tablespoon lard 

3 cups graham or whole i tablespoon salt 

wheat flour i yeast cake stirred into 34 

Yz cup sugar or molasses cup lukewarm water 

Follow directions for mixing, kneading and baking given 
for white bread. 

Bran Bread 

3 cups white flour Y2 cup molasses 

3 cups bran i teaspoonful baking soda 

I teaspoonful salt 2 cups sour milk or buttermilk 

Mix all together, put into greased bread pan, and bake 
\y2 hours in a slow oven. This is very useful in cases of 
constipation. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

At second kneading, roll bread dough to ^ inch thick- 
ness, spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon. Roll into a long roll, cut into i inch slices, grease 
these on the outside, place in baking pan. When they have 
risen to twice their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 

At the second kneading, roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of J^ inch and spread with a ^ inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 
inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold each strip of dough 
so that there will be a layer of prunes between two layers 
of dough. Grease the outside of each roll, place in a 
greased pan, allow them to rise to twice their size, bake. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



23 



Coffee Cake 
I cup hot milk H cup sugar 

Ys cup lard ^ i teaspoon salt 

Yz compressed yeast cake stirred into ^ cup lukewarm water 

Add hot milk to lard and salt, when lukewarm add yeast, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter — about three cups — cover 
dish and let the batter rise. Spread in a well greased pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise; bake. If raisins are 
desired add yz cup just before putting into baking pan. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

Mix as for coffee cake. Just before baking press into 
the dough three sour apples, pared and cut into eighths. 
Sprinkle the apples generously with sugar, and cinnamon 
if desired. 

Hot Breads 

Hot Breads are wholesome if light and baked until thor- 
oughly done. The inside of a muffin or biscuit should 
be dry and firm, not soft or soggy. 

Use of Sour Milk in Baking 
In any baking recipe where sweet milk with baking pow- 
der is used sour milk and soda may be used instead. Use 
3^ teaspoon baking soda for each cup of sour milk. This 
will usually not make the product light enough and there 
should be ,^ teaspoon baking powder added to each cup of 
flour used. 

White Flour Muffins 
3 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

iK cups liquid, half water 6 teaspoons baking powder 

and half milk 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

2 tablespoons sugar pings, suet, or lard 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
well, put quickly into a well greased muffin pan, bake about 
25 minutes in moderately hot oven. An egg may be added 
to the recipe. 

Graham, Whole Wheat or Rye Muffins 

Use recipe above, using i^ cups graham, whole wheat 
or rye flour and i^ cups white flour. 

Berry Muffins 

Use recipe for White Flour Muffins and add i^^ cups 
of berries — huckleberries, raspberries, blackberries or blue- 



24 LOW COST COOKING 

berries — just before putting into baking pans. If desired to 
make them mor© like cake, increase the amount of sugar 
to I cup, the drippings to >^ cup, and add i or 2 eggs. 

Oat Meal Muffins 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

iH cups cooked oatmeal i cup liquid 

2 tablespoons sugar I tablespoon fat 

5 teaspoons baking powder i egg may be used 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly, put quickly into well-greased muffin pans, bake 
about 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Rice Muffins 
Mix same as above, adding hot cooked rice instead of 
oatmeal. 

Bran Muffins 

1 cup flour 2 cups milk or water 

2 cups bran 6 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons molasses ij^ teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons drippings % teaspoon baking soda 

Mix dry ingredients, add liquids and beat. Bake as other 
muffins. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

3 cups flour iH teaspoons salt 

I cup liquid 3 tablespoons fat (lard, crisco, 

6 teaspoons baking powder etc.) 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mixing it with 
flour by cutting with two knives or rub it in lightly with 
finger tips. Add liquid gradually, mixing with a knife. 
Turn onto a floured board, roll or pat to half inch thick- 
ness, cut into rounds with biscuit cutter and place in baking 
pan. It does not hurt biscuits to stand for a while after 
being ready for the oven, if the top is brushed over with 
melted fat in order to prevent a hard crust from forming. 

Drop Biscuits 

2^ cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons melted fat 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients and 
melted fat and mix with a knife. Drop by tablespoonfuls 
in a baking pan, bake in a hot oven. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 25 

Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2 cups flour ^ cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder J4 cup oleo 

^ teaspoon salt Yi cup sugar 

2 tablespoons fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work in the fat with the tips of the fingers, add the milk or 
water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet ^ 
inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing l^wl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into Y^ inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Plain Griddle Cakes 

3 cups flour 3 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups liquid 6 teaspoons baking powder 

lYz teaspoons salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquids, beat and begin 
to cook at once by dropping on hot greased frying pan, i 
tablespoonful in a place. Make as many cakes in the grid- 
dle as it will hold without their touching one another. The 
most important point about cooking the cakes is to avoid 
turning them too soon. Do not turn until the cake is cooked 
through, except for a thin upper layer. When this is done, 
the gas bubbles will burst over the top of the cake, show- 
ing cooked substance below. Keep the fire low enough to 
avoid burning before it is cooked through. Turn and 
brown on the other side. As the cakes are done, place them 
on a plate on top of a kettle of boiling water to keep warm. 
Griddle cakes are hard to digest unless very carefully 
cooked. Follow directions closely to prevent them from 
being hard, tough and indigestible or soggy and raw. 

Graham or Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

These are made in the same way by using half white flour 
and half graham flour or cornmeal. 

Stale Bread Griddle Cakes 

lYz cups flour I tg<g 

4 cups stale bread crumbs Vz teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 5 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups hot water 3 tablespoons drippings 



26 LOW COST COOKING 

Pour water and milk over breadcrumbs and soak until 
crumbs are soft. Add egg, sift in the flour mixed with salt 
and baking powder, bake as other griddle cakes. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

i^ cups flour ^ teaspoon salt 

ll^ cups cooked rice 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup milk or water 5 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix liquid ingredients and add rice. Add flour mixed 
and sifted with salt and baking powder. Bake as other 
griddle cakes. 

Corn Bread 

2 cups cornmeal i^ teaspoon salt 

I cup flour ^ 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

i^ cups sour milk pings 

^ teaspoon baking soda j4 cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly and quickly turn into hot well-greased flat pan. 
Bake about 30 minutes. Cut into squares and serve hot. 

Shortened Corn Bread 

3 cups cornmeal (white pre- i cup sour milk 
ferred) 14 teaspoon soda 

4 tablespoons cold drippings 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mix the same as for 
biscuits, add milk, form into large pones about 6 inches long 
and three inches wide and ^ inch thick. The dough should 
be stiff enough for the pone to hold its shape. Place in 
buttered pan, bake 30 minutes, serve hot. ''Cracklings" 
may be used instead of drippings. 

Com Pone 

3 cups white cornmeal i3^ teaspoons salt 

I cup boiling water 

Mix ingredients, form into pone, same as shortened corn- 
bread, bake in greased pan about ^ hour. Split open and 
serve with slices of crisp bacon inside. 

For Southern Corn Bread see page 71. 

One mother of five children says : "Cornbread is very 
cheap, but when served piping hot with syrup I never 
can get one big enough." 

TOAST 

Toast may be most easily made in winter when fire is 
going all the time by laying the slices of bread in the oven 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



27 



until they are browned. Toast made in this way is dry all 
the way through, as well as being brown on the outside and 
is more easily digested than soft toast. When the gas 
stove is being used and has a broiler, place the toast on 
it, brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. If there 
is only a gas burner to use it may be covered by a clean 
asbestos mat and the bread laid on this. An asbestos mat 
costs 5 cents. A wire toaster which will toast 4 pieces at 
once, can be bought for 19 cents. 

Toasted Rolls or Baking Powder Biscuits 

These are made by splitting the biscuits or rolls open 
and laying them in oven or on the toaster until the exposed 
crumb is brown. 

French Toast 

Make a mixture of half milk, half water, Yi cup of each, 
add an ^gg and dip slices of stale bread in this mixture. 
Lay them in a hot greased frying pan and brown on both 
sides. It may be served with syrup. 
Cream Toast 

Cream toast with or without cheese is made by pouring 
thin white sauce over toasted bread. Cheese may be added 
after the hot sauce is removed from the fire. Fuller direc- 
tions are found on page 96. It is seasoned with salt and 
pepper if cheese is added, otherwise with sugar or with 
salt and pepper alone if desired. A dash of nutmeg may 
be added. 

Milk Toast 

Toast bread in oven, cover with hot milk, serve with salt 
and pepper. 

COOKING BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Cereals are made from hard grains and contain much 
starch, so require long cooking to make them easily di- 
gested. Do not be deceived by directions on the box which 
say that the contents can be cooked in 15 or 20 minutes. 
This is never long enough to cook thoroughly and make 
them fit food for young children. 

Use a double boiler or a fireless cooker if possible. Sift 
the dry cereal slowly into salted boiling water, stirring 
all the while to prevent lumpinjT. Some cereals like graham 
fiour which lump badly should be mixed first with cold 



28 LOW COST COOKING 

water, then poured into the boihng water. Cook 5 minutes 
directly over the fire, then place upper part of double 
boiler over the lower part, cover closely and steam for the 
time required. If there is no double boiler, set the vessel 
containing the cereal in a kettle containing boiling water. 
When the coal range is used, a very convenient way to 
cook the cereal is to start it cooking at supper time and 
leave closely covered on the back of the range all night. In 
the morning it will be found to be well done. Better still, 
leave it in the fireless cooker over night. 

Proportions and Time for Cooking Cereals 

I cup Oatmeal 4 cups water 4 hours 

I cup Rolled Oats...23/^ cups water i to 2 hours 

I cup Farina 4 cups water ^ to i hour 

I cup Cracked Wheat. .6 cups water 6 hours or longer 

I cup Graham Flour... 3 cups water Yi to i hour 

I cup Cornmeal 4 cups water 3 hours 

I cup Hominy 4 cups water 4 hours 

I cup Rice 3 cups water 30 minutes* 

I cup Rice 3 cups water 50 minutest 

* For boiling. t For steaming. 

Cereal Mush 

All of the cereals named above may be served hot as 
mush with cream or milk with or without sugar. Mush 
may also be served with syrup instead of milk. Cornmeal 
mush is much liked in this way. 

If it is difficult to teach a child to eat cereal, adding fruit 
to make it more attractive will often help. 

Oatmeal with Raisins 

I cup oatmeal Ya pound black seedless 

4 cups water raisins 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook oatmeal as directed. Stew raisins according to 
directions given under Dried Fruit (page 53) and add 
enough sugar to make them quite sweet. Serve poured 
over the mush. Dates or figs may be used in the same way 
and with all of the other cereals. 

Farina with Dates 

I cup farina Va pound dates 

4 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook farina as directed; 15 minutes before serving add 

the dates, washed and stoned. Seedless raisins and figs 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 



29 



may be used in this way and with all of the different cereals 
as well as with farina. 

Fried Com Meal Mush or Hominy 

Pour cornmeal or hominy mush into a deep pan. When 
cold cut in slices and fry until brown in drippings, lard or 
suet. 

Another method is to use the mush while still hot, drop- 
ping it into the hot fat, frying it in the form of pancake. 

CEREAL DISHES FOR LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Oatmeal and Potatoes 

^ cup oatmeal 6 cups boiling water 

I onion Sprig of parsley 

1 lb potatoes (3 or 4) 

Add oatmeal to boiling salted water and cook i^ hours. 
Add potatoes cut in cubes and boil ^ hour longer. Fry 
onion until brown in drippings, lard or suet, and add this 
to the mixture along with the chopped parsley or any other 
seasoning desired. Left over oatmeal mush may be used 
for this excellent dish. 

Oatmeal Soup 

2 cups cooked oatmeal 2 cups water 
I onion 2 cups milk 

Brown onion chopped fine in drippings, suet or lard, add 
to the other ingredients, heat to boiling point and serve. 

Rice with Lentils 
I cup rice i onion 

Yi cup lentils 1V2 teaspoons salt 

Parsley, celery, etc., as desired. Cook lentils, following 
directions on page 39 ; 5^ hour before serving add rice. Fry 
the onion chopped fine and green flavoring materials (pars- 
ley, celery, etc.) in drippings or lard, add to the rice and 
lentils and serve. 

Rice with Navy Beans 
Follow directions for rice with lentils, using beans in- 
stead of lentils. 

Lima Beans and Barley 
I cup dried lima beans i onion 

Yi cup barley i bunch soup greens 

Salt to taste 

Cook beans 2 hours, add barley and cook i hour longer. 
Fry onion and greens in drippings, add to mixture and serve. 



30 LOW COST COOKING 

Polenta 

i>^ cup cornmeal 3 tablespoons salad oil 

2 cups cooked tomatoes 3 tablespoons cheese 

Salt, pepper and small onion for flavoring 

Follow directions for cooking cornmeal mush. Cook to- 
matoes, onion and oil i hour or more until the mixture is 
quite thick. Place layer of hot cornmeal mush in dish, then 
layer of tomato mixture, more cornmeal mush and tomato 
on top. Sprinkle grated cheese over the top of dish. 

Plain Boiled Rice 

Rice must be cooked differently from other cereals, as 
there is danger of overcooking and rendering the product 
soggy. Rice cooked by either boiling or steaming should 
have each grain standing out separate and whole and at the 
same time be perfectly tender. 

Wash I cup rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is quite clean. 
Have ready 2 quarts of rapidly boiling water, to which has 
been added 4 teaspoons of salt. Add the rice slowly and 
boil rapidly 20 minutes. Drain off the water, saving it for 
soup, and set the pan back on a low fire to dry out all the 
rest of the moisture. 

Steamed Rice 

Use 3 cups of boiling salted water to one cup of rice. 
Follow directions for boiled rice, allowing the rice to boil 
for 5 minutes directly over the fire. Cover closely, set pan 
in larger vessel with hot water and steam 50 minutes. 

Rice V7ith Stev^ed Fruit 
Serve either boiled or steamed rice with fresh fruit, such 
as black plums, stewed with plenty of water and poured 
over. 

Rice with Cinnamon 
Serve either boiled or steamed rice with sugar and cin- 
namon sprinkled over the top of the dish. Serve with or 
without milk. 

Rice with Cheese 

4 cups cooked rice Ya pound cheese 

4 cups thin white sauce or milk 
Mix white sauce with the rice. Put alternate layers of 
this mixture and grated cheese in baking dish. Cover with 



MEATS 31 

breadcrumbs and bake in moderate oven until hot through 
and crumbs are brown. 

Rice with Tomato — Savory Rice 
Follow directions for rice with cheese, using strained 
tomato instead of white sauce. It may be made with or 
without cheese, and onion or green peppers chopped fine 
may be added if desired. It may also be served hot with- 
out baking. 

MEATS 

Meat is the most difficult part of the diet to manage where 
strict economy must be observed. The cheaper cuts of 
meat, fortunately, contain even more nutriment than the 
expensive ones, but are cheaper because they are not so 
tender. The price per pound, however, does not always 
show which cut of meat is cheaper. The housekeeper must 
consider carefully the amount of bone and fat that is given 
with certain cuts in deciding on the kind to buy ; for example, 
spare ribs at 12 cents a pound cost more than round steak 
at 20 cents a pound because of the large proportion of bone 
they contain. 

The fact to keep in mind is that one pound of lean meat 
is about equal to another pound of lean, no matter which 
part of the beef it is cut from and no matter what the dif- 
ference in price may be ; therefore the housekeeper should 
choose the piece which gives the most lean meat for the 
money. Flank steak and lower round are good examples 
of cheap beef, as they are almost all lean with very little 
waste and sell for 12 to 16 cents per pound. The fat is 
valuable, but suet can be bought at 5 cents per pound and 
leaf fat at 10 cents, which will be cheaper than paying for 
it with the meat. Always ask the butcher for the trimmings 
from your own piece of meat. You will find some usable 
pieces. 

The tougher, cheaper meats, unless chopped fine, must 
be cooked by a long, slow process to make them tender 



32 LOW COST COOKING 

and palatable. A fireless cooker is excellent for this 
purpose. 

Principle of Cooking Meats. — Whatever process of 
cooking is used, the following facts should be kept in mind : 
a high degree of heat (that is, the boiling point in water or 
a very hot oven or griddle) hardens and toughens the meat, 
and it should be used only on the outside of the meat where 
it is good to form a crust in order that the inside may be 
kept tender and juicy; long cooking at a low temperature 
softens the hard tissues and makes tough meat tender and 
digestible. Pork and mutton must be cooked well done, 
while beef may be safely eaten rare. 

Stews 

Of the long, slow processes, stewing is one of the best 
methods. In choosing meat for a stew, whether it is beef, 
lamb, mutton, or veal, take a piece containing some bone, as 
this adds to the flavor. As it is to be cooked a long time, 
the tougher parts of the animal such as the neck and leg, 
below the round of beef or mutton, and shoulder of veal 
or lamb may be used. Remove most of the fat before 
cooking, as a greasy stew is too difficult to digest for chil- 
dren and for persons with delicate digestion. 

If the flavor of browned meat is desired, brown the 
pieces in a hot, dry kettle. Add cold water and bring 
slowly to the simmering point. If the meat is not to be 
browned cover at once with boiling water. In all cases 
keep the fire very low so that the stew will not boil, as the 
high heat will toughen the meat. 

Stews may be flavored with all kinds of highly flavored 
vegetables, which should be added just in time to cook 
tender before the meat is done. If the stew is to be the 
main part of the meal, it can be made more nourishing by 
adding barley, rice, macaroni, dumplings, and other cereals 
or flour mixtures. 



MEATS 33 

Brown Stew with Dumplings 

ij^ pounds stew beef 3 sprigs of parsley 

1 onion 

Sear the beef in a hot, dry kettle until the pieces are all 
well browned on the outside, cover with cold water and 
cook slowly until tender. Do not allow it to boil. Add 
onion and parsley after first hour. 

Dumplings 

2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 
y^ cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon fat 

Mix the dough for dumplings exactly as baking powder 
biscuits, and drop by tablespoonfuls over the top of the 
stew. Cover closely and cook 20 minutes without lifting 
the cover. If dumplings are removed before being thor- 
oughly done they fall and are hard and indigestible. 

A 15-cent knuckle of veal may be used with dumplings 
where much meat is not needed. 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

iH to 2 pounds lamb or mutton i pint carrots 

Follow directions above for stew. When done thicken 

gravy with two tablespoons flour. Serve on large dish 

with a border of boiled rice. 

For stew with vegetables, see page 73. 

Scotch Broth 

2 pounds mutton, from neck, 2 tablespoons each of car- 
shoulder or shank _ rots, celery and parsnip 

2 tablespoons minced onions 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons minced turnip 3 quarts of cold water 

Remove fat, cut into small pieces, add seasoning, except 
parsley, bring to a boil and then continue cooking just below 
boiling point for three hours. Add ^ cup fine barley after 
the first hour, and parsley 3^ hour before it is done. 

Braising 
Braising is another important method for long cooking, 
which is used in making pot roast, beef a la mode, braised 
beef, etc. The meat is first browned on the outside, then 
cooked slowly until tender in small amount of water, either 
on top of stove or in the oven. 



34 LOW COST COOKING 

Beef a la Mode 

1^2 to 2 pounds flat piece of beef, such as flank steak or 

shoulder steak 

I tablesp'n carrots, chopped fine, i tablesp'n onions, chopped fine 

Dressing 

I cup bread crumbs, moistened with cold water 
I teaspoon onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients for dressing, spread over the meat, roll, 
then wrap and tie with twine. Cut slashes in the outside of 
the meat and press into the openings thin pieces of fat salt 
pork. Sear the meat in a hot kettle, add enough water to 
half cover it. Add onion and carrots and cook slowly until 

t^"^^^' Braised Cutlets 

Cut any inexpensive meats such as chuck steak, round 
steak, flank steak, heart, etc., in pieces for serving. Brown 
the pieces in a hot pan, place them in a baking dish, cover 
with gravy made from the browning, add a small onion, 
chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. Cover the dish 
closely and bake until meat is tender. 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 pounds meat (pork shoulder, brisket, etc.) 
2 cups each carrots, turnips, parsnip, rutabaga 

Brown meat on all sides in the hot kettle with a bit of 
meat fat. Half cover with water, cook slowly for three or 
four hours, last half hour adding the vegetables, pared and 
cut in pieces. Chopped Meats 

To lessen time of cooking, meats may be chopped fine. 
The chopped meat offered by the butcher is sometimes not 
quite fresh, as stale scraps are added, and it is better for 
the housekeeper to choose the pieces of meat and have them 
ground. jyjg^^ B^Ug ^^d Onions 

iH pounds chopped meat i teaspoon salt 

I onion, chopped fine % teaspoon pepper 

Mix onions, salt and pepper thoroughly with meat, form 
into cakes, brown both sides in hot pan. Cover closely 
and continue cooking at a low temperature until done 
through. Serve with brown gravy made from the drippings. 

Meat Loaf 

I pound chopped meat i or 2 eggs 

4 cups breadcrumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

Pepper and chopped onion to taste 



MEATS 35 

Meat loaf may be made without egg as described on 
page 85. If it is to be sliced cold the above recipe is better, 
as it will keep its shape better. 

Mix ingredients together. If too dry add water or milk 
to moisten bread. Form into loaf and bake in moderate 
oven for 13^ to 2 hours. 

Chopped beef and pork mixed, veal and pork, beef or 
veal alone, or Hamburger steak may be used. Rice or cold 
potatoes may be used instead of bread crumbs, and tomatoes 
may be used for flavoring. 

Pan Broiling 

This is a useful way to cook meat quickly, which may 
be used for all kinds of steaks and chops. Directions must 
be closely followed to preserve the tenderness of the meat 
and to prevent it from becoming dry and hard. 

Pan Broiled Flank Steak 

Do not allow the butcher to score or slash the flank steak 
for broiling, as this allows the good juices to escape. 

Have the pan very hot, grease it slightly to prevent 
sticking, lay the steak in whole, even if it reaches over the 
edges of the pan. It will shrink in cooking. After brown- 
ing on one side, turn and brown the other. Salt and pepper 
may be sprinkled on each side after it is browned. As soon 
as browned, cover the pan closely and continue to cook on a 
very low fire until done. It will take 10 to 20 minutes, ac- 
cording to thickness, to cook it well done and from 5 to 10 
minutes to cook it rare. 

In serving cut across the fibre of the meat. 

All kinds of chops and steaks are pan-broiled in this way. 
Made Meat Dishes 

It is sometimes necessary to use very little meat, either 
for economy or because the health of the family is better 
with less. A small amount of meat may be made to serve 
the family by combining with other foods. 

Scalloped Meats 

2 cups chopped cooked meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

3 cups thin white sauce or brown gravy 

Left over meats may very well be used for this dish and 
different kinds may be used together if they are at hand. 



36 LOW COST COOKING 

Mix rice or bread crumbs with white sauce or brown gravy. 
Place alternate layers of this mixture and the chopped 
meat in baking dish. Cover with bread crumbs, bake in 
moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 
Meat Croquettes 

2 cups chopped meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

2 cups thick white sauce or brown gravy- 
Leftover meats and gravy may be used for this dish. 
Make white sauce by recipe on page 42. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly together. Form into round or oblong balls, bake 
in oven until brown on outside, or brown on both sides in 
hot greased pan. Serve as meat balls. 
Turkish Pilaf 
3 cups rice i>2 cups water 

i^ cups tomatoes 2 cups cooked meat, chopped 

I onion 
Mix rice with tomatoes and onion chopped fine and water, 
place alternate layers of this mixture and of chopped meat 
in baking dish, cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
brown in a moderate oven. 

Meat Scalloped with Rice and Onions 
Partly fill baking dish with alternate layers of cooked 
rice and thinly sliced onions. Add a layer cooked left-over 
meat chopped fine or three-fourths pound raw chopped 
meat. Add hot water to moisten dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and bake three-fourths hour in moderate oven. 
Hominy with Bacon 
Fry 4 slices of bacon until crisp. Cut into small pieces, 
add 4 cups cooked hominy and reheat. Scraps of any kind 
of leftover meat may be used instead of bacon and any of 
the other cereals may be used instead of hominy. 

Meat Pie 
Use leftover stew or any remains of meat at hand. Put 
the meat in a baking dish, add sufficient gravy to cover 
well, adding parsley, celery, etc., as desired for seasoning. 
Cover the top with a half-inch layer of dough made as for 
baking powder biscuits, bake in hot oven until dough is 
done. ^ Tripe 

iH pounds tripe 2 cups white sauce 

Cut tripe in small pieces, cover with hot water and cook 
15 minutes. Drain, add white sauce, stew 20 minutes. 



MEATS 37 

Brains 

Soak over night in salt water, remove outer skins, roll 
in flour or bread crumbs. Brown both sides in hot greased 
pan, cover closely and cook on low fire about 20 minutes 
until well done. 

To scramble, break in small pieces, add i or 2 eggs and 
cook in hot greased pan, stirring constantly. 

Stuffed Heart 
Remove veins and cords of calves or beef heart, soak and 
clean. Stuff with dressing and braize as described for Beef 
a la Mode, page 34. 

Hamburger Steak virith Tomatoes 

1% pounds chopped meat Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan, stirring constantly. When 
part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, cover closely and 
continue cooking on low fire until done. 

FISH 

Fish is one of the high protein foods and may be used 
at any meal instead of meat. The cheaper kinds are more 
economical than meat. In buying fish be sure it is fresh. 
In fresh fish the eyes are bright, the gills red, the flesh firm 
and odorless. Be sure it is well cleaned before cooking. 

Panned Fish 
Clean the fish, rub with salt and dry with a little flour. 
Lay in very hot frying pan greased with salt pork drippings. 
Brown quickly on both sides, cover closely and cook on 
low fire 10 to 20 minutes until cooked through. If the fish 
is large cut into pieces ; if small, cook whole. 

Baked Fish 

Bake and clean large fish leaving on the head ; stuff with 
dressing; lay in pan and bake in a moderate oven. When 
thoroughly done place whole on a hot dish. 

Dressing for Fish 
Put I tablespoon drippings in a sauce pan ; stir in 2 cups 
of bread crumbs, i teaspoon chopped onion, i teaspoon 
parsley, i tablespoon chopped suet. Moisten with ^ cup of 
milk or water. 



38 LOW COST COOKING 

THE COOKING OF EGGS 

The same principle that appHes to the cooking of meats 
applies also to eggs, as the protein found in each is made 
tough and indigestible by a high degree of heat. Even if 
the eggs are cooked hard they should never be tough. 
Hard Cooked Eggs 

Place the eggs in a stew pan and cover with boiling 
water. Do not allow the water to boil after the eggs are in, 
but keep it hot for fifty minutes. Cooked in this way the 
whites of the eggs will be solid but tender, and the yolks 
solid and mealy. 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

If the eggs are to be cooked in the shell, they may be 
put into cold water and the water brought slowly to the 
boiling point. By this time the white will be solid and the 
egg hot all the way through. Or they may be dropped into 
boiling water, the pan set on the back of the stove and 
allowed to stand from 7 to 10 minutes. 
Poached Eggs 

Bring to the boiling point enough water to cover the 
eggs. Break each egg separately in a cup, slip it quickly 
into the hot water, let it stand, keeping the water hot but 
not allowing it to boil until the white is firm. This will take 
about seven minutes. 

Scrambled Eggs 

When eggs are expensive, a smaller number may be used 
for a meal if they are cooked with other foods. In scram- 
bling milk and flour may be added to enlarge the bulk. 
Follow the recipe given on page 84. 

Eggs Scrambled with Potatoes 

4 cups cold boiled potatoes ^ ^ 2 to 4 eggs 

Cut the potatoes in thin slices or in ^-inch cubes, add 
the beaten egg, cook in a warm greased frying pan over a 
low fire, stirring constantly until the eggs are cooked and 
the potatoes warmed through. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomatoes 

y2 can tomatoes 2 to ^4 eggs 

Add the beaten eggs to the tomatoes, heat, stirring the 
mixture until the eggs are cooked. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. 



LEGUMES 

Legumes are a very useful class of food, as they contain 
a large amount of nutriment and may be used to replace 
part of the meat in the diet. Little or no meat should be 
served at the same time. One pound of any of those in 
the table following contains as much food as the average 
pound of flank of beef or fresh ham, and more than twice 
as much as cuts which contain much bone, such as spare 
ribs and leg of veal. 

TABLES OF COMMON LEGUMES 

Price Time for cooking 
per pound after soaking 

Split yellow peas 5 cts. 2^4 hours 

Split green peas 6 cts. 2^ hours 

Whole green peas 7 cts. 4 hours 

Black-eyed peas 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lentils 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lima beans 8 cts. 3 hours 

Kidney beans 8 cts. yA hours 

Navy beans 5 cts. 3 hours 

The following directions may be used for cooking all of 
them. Wash carefully. Soak several hours or over night ; 
start to cook well covered with cold water and cook until 
tender. Add one teaspoon ful of salt to each cup. They 
may then be made into a large number of attractive dishes, 
which may be divided into the following types : 

Type I. Tomatoes, cheese, etc., may be added for sea- 
soning as in the following dishes: 

Boiled Beans with Tomatoes 

Follow directions for cooking beans given above. When 
almost tender add canned tomatoes and seasoning and cook 
one-half hour longer. Use onion, pepper, salt, etc., for 
seasoning. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, lentils, black eyed peas may 
also be used in this way. 

Beans with Cheese and Green Peppers 

^2 pound kidney beans i green pepper ^ pound cheese 

Add pepper and salt to taste 

39 



40 LOW COST COOKING 

Soak beans over night. In the morning cook slowly one 
hour. Chop peppers and cook with the beans until tender. 
Just before taking from the fire add cut-up cheese. Serve 
hot on toast. 

Type II. The flavor may be secured by adding a piece 
of meat such as salt pork, end of salt shoulder or ham. ' 
Black Eyed Peas v^ith Ham Butts 

2 cups black-eyed peas i^ pound salt ham butt 
Wash and soak the peas over night. Remove the rind 

from the ham butt. Cover with cold water, cook slowly 
for 2 hours, add peas, and continue cooking until peas and 
meat are tender. 

Navy beans, lima beans, split peas and lentils may be 
cooked in the same way. 

Type III. They may be baked with various kinds of 
seasoning added. 

Baked Peas with Bacon 
Use dried peas, either split or whole. When cooked 
tender evaporate most of the water and turn into the baking 
dish. Place strips of thin cut salt pork or bacon on top. 
Bake in a moderate oven until bacon is crisp and brown. 
Beans, lima beans, and lentils may be baked in the same way. 
Boston Baked Beans 
3 cups beans 2 tablespoons sugar 

yi pound salt pork i tablespoon molasses 

2 teaspoons salt 
Soak beans over night, cover with cold water; cook 
slowly one-half hour and drain ofif the water. Scald a piece 
of salt pork, place one thin slice of pork in the bottom of 
the baking dish; put in the beans and bury the piece of 
pork in them, leaving the edges exposed. Mix molasses, 
sugar and salt, add boiling water and pour over the beans. 
Add enough boiling water to cover the beans and bake 6 to 
8 hours ; uncover the last hour to allow the beans and pork 
to brown. A five-pound lard pail makes a good baking 
dish for beans. 

Type IV. They may be baked in a loaf, as the following : 
Lentil Loaf 
4 cups lentils (cooked) Ya lb. salt pork or bacon 

3 cups breadcrumbs or 2 cups Flavorings — Onions, pars»- 

cooked rice ley, etc., as desired 

Cook lentils, following directions above. Mash fine, add 



LEGUMES 41 

rice or bread crumbs and flavorings chopped fine. Form 
into a loaf resembling meat loaf, place in baking pan, lay- 
pork or bacon, sliced thin, over the top, and bake in mod- 
erate oven until meat is crisp and brown. 

Lima Bean Loaf, Navy Bean Loaf, Kidney Bean 
Loaf, all may be prepared in the same way, or the loaf 
may be made from leftovers of different kinds, mixed. 

Type V. They may be creamed by adding white sauce. 

Creamed Kidney Beans 
Cook kidney beans according to directions given. For 
each cup of beans add one cup of white sauce made by 
recipe on page 70, or by directions given there for creamed 
carrots. 

Lima Beans also are especially good creamed. 

Vegetable Stews 

Stews may be made with vegetables without meat, or 

with only a small amount used for flavoring. If one of the 

legumes is used for the basis of the stew, it will, with bread 

and milk, form a good lunch or supper. 

Lentil Stew 

1 cup lentils 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups diced potatoes 3 slices bacon or salt pork 
Wash lentils and soak over night ; boil 3 hours, add pota- 
toes and boil for 20 minutes. Fry bacon, remove from pan, 
and stir flour in the fat. Add i cup water and boil until 
thick. Add this gravy and the bacon cut into small pieces 
to the stew. 

Beans, lima beans, kidney beans, or black-eyed peas may 
be used instead of lentils. 

Jungle Stew 

V/i cup kidney beans i onion 

5^ cup macaroni or rice 4 tablespoons drippings 

Yi can tomatoes ^ seasoning to taste 

Wash and soak beans over night, boil 3 hours. Brown 
sliced onions in frying pan, with drippings, add to stew with 
tomatoes, seasoning and the macaroni broken into bits. Sim- 
mer a half hour. 

Navy beans, lentils or lima beans may be used instead 
of the kidney beans. 

Split Peas vnth. Carrots 

3 cups carrots (cooked) 3 cups green split peas (cooked) 

Salt and pepper to taste 



42 



LOW COST COOKING 



Cut the carrots in ^-inch cubes, mash the peas fine and 
add enough water to make them Hke a very thick soup. 
Minced onions or parsley may be added if additional sea- 
soning is desired. Put the things all together and reheat. 

Succotash 

Succotash is green corn, fresh or canned, combined with 
beans, green or dried. 

Lima Bean Succotash 

Yz can corn 2 cups cooked lima beans 

2 tablespoons drippings salt and pepper to taste 

Heat corn and beans together, add seasoning and, if 
desired, a little milk. 

For the use of legumes in soups, see page 50. 

White Sauce 

White sauce or cream sauce sometimes called milk sauce 
or gravy, is much used to blend foods and add flavor. It 
also adds food value in inexpensive form. Milk, flour, fat 
and seasoning are the usual ingredients. All or part of the 
milk may be replaced by water, meat, fish, or chicken stock, 
and fruit or vegetable juices. For the fat, drippings, oleo, 
butter, lard, crisco, etc., may be used. 

Thin Sauce. Medium Sauce. Thick Sauce. 

I tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons flour 3-4 tablespoons flour 

I tablespoon fat 2 tablespoons fat 2-4 tablespoons fat 

y^ teaspoon salt }A teaspoon salt Va-V^ teaspoon salt 

Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper 

etc. etc. I cup liquid 

I cup liquid I cup liquid 

Suitable for cream- For general use Basis of croquettes, 

ed potatoes, maca- with fish and most meat loaf, etc. 
roni, toast, etc. vegetables. 

Methods of mixing: (i) Melt fat in saucepan, stir until 
frothy all over, then add liquid slowly, hot or cold, while 
stirring ; cook again until thick, stirring until smooth. 

(2) Rub fat and flour together and stir into the warm 
liquid in a double boiler, then cook and stir until thick and 
smooth. 

(3) When less fat is used, rub the flour smoothly with 
a little cold liquid and stir into the remainder, which 
should be hot, and cook in double boiler until smooth. 
Then add fat and seasoning. 



VEGETABLES 

Besides the starch and sugar they contain, which furnish 
energy for the body, vegetables have in them minerals 
which are necessary to health. If we do not get these min- 
erals in our food, we will probably be compelled to get them 
in the form of medicine, which means that we must buy 
the medicine as well as pay a doctor for prescribing for us. 
For example, the person who has a pallid color is probably 
anemic. He needs iron, and instead of taking an iron tonic 
it is much better to get iron into the blood by eating foods 
rich in iron, such as carrots, spinach, prunes, turnips and 
other fruits and vegetables. During the summer by watch- 
ing the markets and wagons we can usually get a good 
variety of fresh vegetables at reasonable prices. In the 
winter, we have what is known as winter vegetables. 
COMMON WINTER VEGETABLES 

Price per Pound Time for Cooking 

Carrots i to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Rutabaga i to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Onion i to 2 cts. 30 min. to 2 hours 

Beets ^ I to 3 cts. i hour to 3 hours 

Parsnips 2 to 4 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Celery root 3 to 5 cts. 30 min. to i hour 

Cabbage 2 to 4 cts. 20 min. to 40 min. 

Turnip i to 3 cts. 20 min. to 30 min. 

Directions for Cooking Vegetables 

When these vegetables are to be served creamed, but- 
tered, browned, etc., they should first be pared and cut into 
pieces, after being carefully washed. Cook until tender in 
boiling salted water. Beets are an exception to this rule, 
as they should be cooked whole with the skin on. The time 
for cooking varies with the age of the vegetable and the 
size of the pieces into which it is cut. 

As the valuable minerals which the vegetables contain are 
soluble, much of them go into the water in which the 
vegetable is cooked. For this reason none of it should be 
thrown away. If it cannot be served with the vegetable it 
should be used for soups. 

In steaming and baking there is no loss of minerals and 
these methods may sometimes be used. 

43 



44 LOW COST COOKING 

Buttered Beets 

Cook beets, following directions above. When tender 
remove outer skin by rubbing it off with the fingers under 
running water. Slice, and add butter, oleo or drippings, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. 

Rutabaga, parsnips, onions, and turnips may all be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Creamed Rutabaga 

Cook in large pieces until tender. When done cut in 
half-inch cubes, add white sauce and serve hot. 

Creamed Carrot, Turnip, Celery Root, and Parsnip 
are prepared in the same way. 

Hashed Cabbage 

When cooked tender, drain off the water in which the 
cabbage has been cooked, which should be saved for adding 
flavoring to soup. Chop cabbage fine, add 2 tablespoons of 
water, 2 tablespoons drippings, salt and pepper to taste. 
Set back on fire for a few minutes until flavorings are ab- 
sorbed, stirring constantly. Serve hot. 

Hashed Turnips and Rutabaga are prepared in the 
same way. 

Scalloped Onion 

Remove the outer skin from onions ; boil whole until 
tender. Place onions in baking dish with alternate layers 
of bread crumbs, cover with milk, water or mixture of milk 
and water; cover top of dish with bread crumbs, brown in 
oven. 

Scalloped turnips, cabbage and tomatoes are prepared in 
the sanie way. 

Browned Parsnips 

When parsnips are cooked tender, cut in half-inch slices, 
long way ; brow^n in oven with bits of bacon over the top, 
or in a frying pan with drippings. 

Potatoes 
Potatoes must be treated differently from other vegeta- 
bles because of the large proportion of starch they contain. 
When properly cooked, potatoes are dry and mealy. Soggy, 
watery potatoes are difficult to digest and unwholesome. 
Follow directions carefully to avoid this. 



VEGETABLES 45 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes carefully, leave whole or cut in 
uniform size and drop into boiling salted water. Boil 
until tender but not longer. Test the potatoes by sticking 
a knife or fork tine into it to determine when it is tender. 
They will usually be done in 30 minutes. When done, drain 
all the water off at once and set the kettle back on a very 
low fire with the cover partly on until the remaining mois- 
ture is gone. Add drippings for seasoning. 

Boiling potatoes with the skins on saves much waste. 
Wash the potatoes, drop into boiling salted water and boil 
until tender. Drain ofif water, break the skin of each potato 
so that it will not become soggy, and set kettle on back of 
stove to di-y out moisture. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Mash boiled potatoes, add drippings and milk, and beat 
well. Keep hot but uncovered until served. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut boiled or baked potatoes in half-inch cubes, add white 
sauce and reheat. To each cup of potatoes add J/2 to i cup 
white sauce. 

Creamed Potatoes v^ith Cheese 

Prepare creamed potatoes as above. Set kettle on back 
of stove and add cheese grated or chopped fine. Stir occa- 
sionally until cheese is melted, but do not let it boil, as a 
high degree of heat will make the cheese stringy and 
tough. To each cup of potatoes i to 2 tablespoons cheese 
may be used. 

Hashed Potatoes 

Chop cold boiled or baked potatoes fine, put into a hot 
greased frying pan, and brown. Chopped leftover meat 
may be added. 

Baked Potatoes 

Choose medium sized, smooth potatoes, wash, bake for 
one hour in a hot oven. As soon as they are taken up, 
break the skin to let out the moisture. If this is left in they 
will soon become sog:g:y. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Fill baking dish with alternate layers of sliced potatoes 
and onions, add salt and pepper to taste, add milk or milk 



46 LOW COST COOKING 

and water to cover. Put layer of bread crumbs over top 
and bake i^^ to 2 hours or until potatoes and onions are 
cooked. Leftover potatoes may be used, in which case 
much less time will be required for cooking. One-half 
hour will usually be sufficient to cook the onions, if sliced 
thin. 

Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet potatoes contain more nourishment than white 
potatoes, so that at 3 cents per pound they are about as 
expensive in proportion to their food value as white pota- 
toes at 2 cents per pound. They are not, however, so easily 
digested. 

They are boiled or baked in exactly the same way as 
white potatoes. 

SUMMER VEGETABLES 

Almost all the vegetables listed under winter vegetables 
are to be obtained all summer at still lower prices than 
those named. In addition the vegetables in the following 
table may, in season, be obtained at reasonable prices : 

Time for Cooking 

Spinach and other greens 30 to 40 minutes 

Beet greens 50 minutes 

Green corn 15 to 30 minutes 

Kohlrabi 20 to 40 minutes 

Asparagus 15 to 30 minutes 

String beans ^ to i hour 

Peas 20 to 30 minutes 

Artichokes 30 minutes 

Lettuce (served raw). (See Salads.) 
Radishes (served raw). 

Spinach and Other Greens 

Spinach and other greens must be very carefully washed 
through 4 or 5 waters until all of the dirt and sand caught 
in the leaves is rem.oved. When clean drop into boiling 
water and cook until tender. Evaporate most of the water, 
add salt, pepper, and drippings or oleo. 

Beet Greens 
Leave small beet root and top together. Wash carefully ; 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Add seasoning 
as above, or milk. 



VEGETABLES 47 

Com on Cob 

Remove husk, cut out any decayed part ; wash cars and 
drop into boiling unsalted water; cook 15 to 30 minutes, 
according to age. Salted water turns the corn yellow. 
Serve hot with salt. 

Kohlrabi 

Wash and pare; cut in slices or cubes and cook until 
tender. Add salt, pepper and drippings or oleomargarine. 
They may also be served creamed by adding white sauce. 

String Beans 

Wash, remove strings and break into i-inch pieces. Cook 
in boiling salted water until tender. Add drippings for 
seasoning. They may be seasoned by a piece of salt pork 
which is put on in the beginning and cooked with the beans. 

Peas 

Shell peas ; cook until tender in boiling water. Add salt, 
pepper and drippings or oleomargarine for seasoning; or 
they may be creamed by adding white sauce. 



SALADS 

Vegetable foods that may be eaten raw, such as lettuce, 
tomatoes, cabbage, cucumbers, cress and celery, are most 
suitable for salads. All sorts of cooked vegetables, how- 
ever, and raw or cooked fruits may be dressed and served 
cold as salads. Combinations that are good are cold boiled 
kidney beans with chopped celery, cold boiled peas with 
carrots, chopped cabbage with celery or nuts, sliced cucum- 
bers with lettuce, tomatoes with lettuce, apples with celery. 
Chopped peanuts may be added to all of these if desired. 
In mixing a salad have all materials as cold as possible. 
Mix with the dressing. All kinds may be served on let- 
tuce leaves or with sprigs of cress. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole egg 
1/3 cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons oleo or crisco % teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with oleo and part of milk, 
add remaining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back 
of stove, add tgg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the Qgg. 
Add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix thoroughly. 

Oil Dressing for Salad 

6 tablespoons oil 2 teaspoons salt _ 

I to 2 tablespoons vinegar or l^ teaspoon paprika 
lemon juice 

The oil used may be olive, cottonseed or peanut. Olive 
oil costs from 65 cents to $1.25 per quart, while cottonseed 
and peanut oils cost 25 to 45 cents, have the same food 
value, and a very pleasant flavor. 

Put salt and paprika in dish with vinegar or lernon 
juice and mix thoroughly. Pour in the oil slowly, beating 
all the time. 

48 



SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into the two general classes ; those 
made with meat and those without. 

Soups with Meat. Meat is used to give flavor. In 
order to extract the juices which contain the flavoring ma- 
terial the meat should be started to cook in cold water and 
cooked slowly for a long time. This leaves the meat itself 
tasteless, but it still contains most of its food value and 
should always be used. It can either be served with the 
soup so that its lack of flavor will not be noticed or it may 
be served in combination with a highly-flavored vegetable 
such as tomatoes or onions. 

Additions to Meat Soups. The soup itself made in this 
way has a pleasing taste and acts as a stimulant to digestion, 
but contains very little food. To make it more nourishing 
other food materials may be added. For example, a cereal 
such as rice or barley ; a flour preparation such as macaroni, 
noodles, or dumplings ; or a legume such as beans, peas or 
lentils. 

Fat with Soup. Soup containing much fat from the 
meat should not be given to young children or to adults 
with delicate stomachs, as it is difficult to digest and may 
cause digestive disturbances. To remove the fat set the 
soup aside to cool. When the fat has risen to the top and 
hardened remove it, reheat the soup and serve. 

Soup Stock from Bones. Always save the bones of the 
chicken or other fowl, fish, or those from roast, pot roast 
or chops. If the bones are large crack them, cover well 
with cold water and cook slowly five or six hours. Strain 
out the bones, add vegetables for seasoning and rice or 
barley for nourishment and cook until these are well done. 

49 



50 LOW COST COOKING 

Seasoning for Soups and Stews. The success of a 
soup lies largely in the flavoring. Any cook may by making 
a few experiments in combining flavors find those most 
pleasing to the taste of the people for whom she cooks. Do 
not be afraid to try new combinations of flavoring. 

Some favorite flavorings are tomatoes, onion, celery, 
turnip, carrot, cabbage, parsley and bay leaves. A com- 
bination of several different flavors is usually better liked 
than a single one. 

The tough leaves of celery, unfitted for other uses, 
should always be dried in the sun or oven and kept in a 
fruit jar for future use. Parsley may be dried in the same 
way; or better still grown in a window box so as always 
to be ready for use. 

No water in which vegetables have been cooked should 
ever be thrown away, but kept to add flavoring to soups. 

To Serve with Soup. Bread, toast, croutons or crackers 
are usually served with soup. Crackers are more expensive 
than the other materials, as a pound of crackers contains 
only a little more nourishment than a pound of bread. The 
crackers cost lo cents per pound in bulk and i6 cents per 
pound in packages, while bakers' bread costs 6ys cents per 
pound and may be made at home for half that amount. 

Croutons. Croutons are made of bread toasted a light 
brown all the way through. Cut stale bread in round, 
square or oblong pieces or in one-inch cubes and set in a 
slow oven until brown. In serving, the cubes may be 
dropped on the bowl of soup just before it is taken to the 
table. 

Soups Without Meat. Soups without meat are usually 
made of vegetables or legumes with or without the addi- 
tion of milk. 

Cream Soups. A cream soup is a very thin white sauce, 
flavored with vegetable. It should be smooth and about as 
thick as thin cream. 



SOUPS 51 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup 

3 cups lima beans (cooked) 3 tablespoons drippings or 
iH cups milk suet 

13^ cups water 2 tablespoons flour 

% teaspoon pepper lYz teaspoons salt 

If additional seasoning is desired use i tablespoon each of 
onion, celery, parsley, etc., or any one of them alone. 

Melt suet, stir in flour, add water and boil for 5 minutes. 
If onion or celery is used for flavoring add it chopped fine 
to the suet before adding flour. Put beans through a 
colander or mash them fine ; add them and the milk to the 
soup. Do not boil again, but keep hot until served. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, split peas, green peas, corn 
and potatoes may be used instead of the lima beans. The 
potatoes and peas should be mashed fine and the beans and 
corn crushed through a colander before being added. 

Purees are thick soups, usually made without milk. 
Puree of Split Pea 

4 cups split peas (cooked) i tablespoon flour 
2 cups water i teaspoon salt 

2 slices fat pork % teaspoon pepper 

For additional flavoring, if desired, i tablespoon each of 
onion, parsley, celery, etc., may be used. 

Fry pork until crisp and break or cut into small bits. 
Stir flour into the pork and drippings. Add water and boil 
5 minutes. If onion, celery or any of the flavoring mate- 
rials requiring cooking are used, chop fine and add to drip- 
pings before stirring in the flour. Add peas, mashed fine, 
and salt and pepper. This soup may be made more nutri- 
tious by using milk instead of part of the water. It should 
be added last so that the mixture need not boil afterwards. 
Just before serving sprinkle cube shaped croutons over the 
top of the bowl. 

Navy beans, lima beans, kidney beans, carrots, green peas 
or corn may be used instead of the split peas. When beans 
are used tomatoes may be used for flavoring. 
Sour Cream Soup 
4 cups broken bread 3 tablespoons sour cream 

3 cups water 3 tablespoons drippings 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Stir bread in hot drippings until brown ; add hot water 
and let the mixture stand a few minutes until the bread is 
soaked. Just before serving add seasoning and sour cream. 



52 



LOW COST COOKING 



Potato Soup with Leek 

5 medium-sized potatoes 4 slices salt pork 

I leek 2 tablespoons flour 

Yi. onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil potatoes and leek together until soft and mash them 
in the water in which they are cooked. Fry salt pork crisp, 
break into small bits, stir flour and chopped up onion into 
drippings and add the whole to potatoes and leek. Add 
sufficient water to form thick soup. 
Bean Soup 

An excellent household manager says: 

"A very good soup is made when you prepare beans to 
bake. Soak the beans over night, rinse and put on to boil 
in the morning with plenty of cold water. Boil until beans 
are soft, using a small piece of fat pork or bacon for sea- 
soning. When soft, take out beans in baking dish, leaving 
about two cupfuls in the water. Add more water, let sim- 
mer on back of the stove. Season the beans, using syrup 
to sweeten if desired, also the pork and arrange in pan to 
bake. Put them aside for supper, baking slowly with 
plenty of water on them. About one hour before dinner, 
cut up about 3 medium sized potatoes, two onions and a 
carrot into the soup. Let cook thoroughly and serve hot 
with toast or crackers. This will make a very good dinner, 
leaving the baked beans for supper. Try this on baking 
day. The soup will use up all the stale bread, and fresh 
biscuits with syrup and the baked beans with stewed toma- 
toes make a fine supper." 

Thin Soups without Milk 

Soups of the same thickness as cream soups may be 
made of vegetables without milk. 

Bean and Tomato Soup 

3 cups boiled beans i small onion 

1 cup tomatoes i tablespoon mixed parsley 

2 cups water ' 2 tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons drippings 

Mince onion and parsley, add to melted drippings and 
cook. Stir in the flour, add water and boil. Add beans 
mashed fine and tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. 

Split peas, kidney beans, lentils, string beans, green peas, 
corn, potatoes or potatoes mixed with parsnips may be 
used instead of beans. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 

When a dessert is served it should round out the meal, 
furnishing something which is lacking. If the meal has 
not contained enough starchy food use a dessert made of 
rice, tapioca or bread. 

Fresh fruit, raw, stewed or baked, makes a good dessert. 
In cooking, use the skin of the fruit if it cooks tender. Dried 
fruits are useful in times when fresh ones are most expen- 

s^v^- Dried Fruits 

Wash carefully ; soak over night ; cook slowly in same 
water; add sugar to taste. 

Apples, apricots, peaches, dates, raisins, currants and 
prunes are to be cooked in this way. Combining two or 
more of these is sometimes better than one alone. 

Apples may be combined with either prunes or raisins, 
peaches with apricots, etc., using a fruit containing much 
acid with one containing little. 

Baked Banana 
Baked bananas are more easily digested than raw ones. 
Peel the banana and cut lengthwise into halves; lay in 
baking pan and bake them about 15 minutes in moderate 
oven. Serve sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice. 

Baked Rhubarb 

Wash rhubarb, cut into half-inch pieces, place in baking 
dish, sprinkle generously with sugar, and add small amount 
of water, just enough to start it, as it contains much water. 
Bake in a slow oven for about i^ hours, or until pieces 
are tender. j^j^^ Pudding 

I quart skim milk, or i pint ^ teaspoon salt 

whole milk and i pint water y^ cup sugar 
H cup rice 

Mix ingredients together, pour in a greased baking dish, 
bake three hours in a very slow oven, stirring frequently 
to prevent the rice from sticking to the bottom of the dish. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Rice with Fruit 
Boiled or st-eamed rice, with stewed fruit which has been 
cooked with plenty of water, poured over it, makes a good 

53 



54 LOW COST COOKING 

dessert. Prunes, black or red plums and peaches are espe- 
cially good for this. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons chocolate or 

Yx cup sugar cocoa 

5 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix flour, sugar and chocolate, add milk and boil, stir- 
ring constantly to prevent lumping, until mixture thickens. 
Serve hot or cold with milk or cream. 

Indian Pudding 
I quart scalded milk Yz cup cornmeal 

Yz cup molasses i teaspoon salt 

Pour the milk slowly on the meal and cook in double 
boiler for 15 minutes. Pour into a greased baking dish, and 
bake 2 hours or more in a slow oven. 

Brown Betty 

Place a layer of sour apples, pared and cut in thin slices, 
in the bottom of a baking dish. Sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon or nutmeg, add layer of toasted bread crumbs and 
another of apple and so on to the top of the dish. Scatter 
a few bits of suet over the top layer of crumbs. Add 
enough water to moisten the crumbs well and bake in a 
slow oven, covered, until apples are done. Instead of raw 
apples, apple sauce made of dried apples may be used. 

Berry Betty, Plum Betty, Date Betty, etc., may be made 
in the same way, using these fruits instead of apples. Any 
juicy fruit may be used. The toasted bread may be used 
in whole slices instead of crumbed. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

I cup flour I tablespoon oleo, cottosuet 

1 ^^g or drippings 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons milk Yz teaspoon salt 

Sift flour with salt and baking powder. Add drippings 
and rub through flour with finger tips. Add ^gg and milk. 
Mix with knife. 

Cherries, rhubarb, plums, fresh or dried apples, fresh or 
dried peaches, etc., may be used for fruit. Stew with 
plenty of water. Vv^hile fruit is boiling drop dough on top 
bv tablespocnfuls. CoA^er kettle and cook for 20 minutes 
without liiiiiig cover. Remove cover and set in oven for a 
few minutes. Serve hot. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 55 

Flavoring for Desserts 

The good flavoring extracts on the market are expensive, 
and the economical housekeeper should study the use of 
other materials which cost less. Spices, especially nutmeg, 
mace, ginger and cinnamon, may be used in cake instead of 
vanilla. Caraway and poppy seed may be used in cookies 
and sweet breads. Caramel is a pleasing flavor, and when 
made at home is very inexpensive. 

Caramel 

1 cup sugar Vs cup water 

Boil sugar and water until it becomes a thick medium 
brown mixture. Remove from fire, add enough hot water 
to make a thick syrup. If cold water is put into the hot 
syrup it will pop out and may injure the cook. Another 
method is to heat the sugar in a dry pan until it melts and 
browns, then add hot water and boil until it becomes a thick 
syrup. Caramel made in this way may be set aside in a 
covered dish or jelly glass, to be used as needed. It will not 
spoil and needs only to be kept clean. 

Cake 

The success of a cake lies more in the mixing and baking 
than in the richness of the ingredients. Measure carefully 
and follow directions closely. In baking, keep the heat of 
the oven as even as possible and do not allow the cake to 
be jarred or cold air to strike it while it is baking. When 
it is done, the edges will shrink from the pan and the sur- 
face will be firm to the touch. 

Plain Cake 

2 cups sifted flour i or 2 eggs 

I cup sugar 3 tablespoons oleomargarine 

I cup liquid 4 teaspoons baking powder 

(milk, or milk and water) 

Flavoring — ^ teaspoon mace, nutmeg or other spices; 
I tablespoon caramel, etc. 

Mix sugar, oleomargarine and egg yolks thoroughly to- 
gether. Add the liquid and all except % cup of the flour 
and beat the mixture hard for five minutes. Add_ the 
egg whites beaten stiff, the remaining flour mixed and sifted 
with the baking powder, mix quickly and pour into a but- 
tered pan. Bake in a moderate oven. 



56 LOW COST COOKING 

It may be baked in a loaf, in layers, or made into cup 
cakes by baking in muffin pan. 

Cottage Pudding 
Cut plain cake while still warm in squares, and pour over 
it chocolate, caramel, or lemon sauce, or stewed fruit. 
Chocolate or Caramel Sauce 
i^ cups boiling water K cup cocoa or grated choco- 

^ cup sugar late or 2 tablespoons cara- 

3 tablespoons flour mel, made as above 

Mix dry ingredients together and add cold water to 
moisten, pour on boiling water, stirring constantly, and boil 
five minutes. Nutmeg Sauce. 

Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add i table- 
spoonful oleomargarine and ^ teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 
Lemon Sauce 
Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add 2 table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice after it is off the fire. 
Spice Cake 
2 cups flour I egg 

I cup brown sugar Ys teaspoon soda 

y3 cup melted drippings 1J/2 teaspoons baking powder 

3^ cup sour milk i teaspoon cinnamon 

Ys each teaspoon allspice and cloves 
Mix egg, sugar, drippings and sour milk. Add flour 
mixed and sifted with spices, soda and baking powder; 
mix well; bake in shallow, well-greased pan. If no 
sour milk is to be had use sweet milk or water, leave out 
soda and use 4 teaspoons baking powder. Other spices may 
be used instead of those named. For chocolate cake add 
54 cup cocoa. 

Quick Cup Cakes (Lightning Cake). 
Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
ij^ cups of flour, ^ cup of fine granulated or brown 
sugar, 3 level teaspoons of baking powder, 3^ teaspoon of 
salt. Sift in the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt }i cup oleo or crisco or lard, 
break in I or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add Yz 
teaspoon flavoring extract or ^ teaspoon of spice. Mix 
with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For Chocolate Cake add 3 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 57 

Oat Meal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Yz cup flour 3 tablespoons oleo or drippings 

I cup sugar I pinch salt 

1 ^%g 4 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten ^gg and milk. Add more 
milk if necessary to moisten ingredients ; drop by teaspoon- 
fuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

Bran Cookies 
Beat I ^gg well, add to it ^ cup melted fat, ^ cup brown 
sugar, ]A, cup milk, and 5^ cup molasses. Sift into this ij^ 
cups white flour to which has been added Yi teaspoonful 
soda, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 3^ teaspoonful 
salt. Beat well, then add i^ cups bran and i cup raisins 
chopped. Mix well and drop from the tip of a spoon onto 
greased pans. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Ginger Bread 

2 cups flour I teaspoon ginger 
Yz^ cup sugar Yz cup molasses 

Yz cup hot water 2 teaspoons baking powder 

5 tablespoons melted drip- Yz teaspoon soda 

pings Yi. teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to the molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour I cup finely chopped suet 

2 cups breadcrumbs i cup sugar 

I cup milk or water Ya teaspoon salt 

grating of nutmeg 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, and 
set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an hour. 

For boiling tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 23^ to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way 
that a cake or pudding is baked. 



58 . LOW COST COOKING 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces or as a cake without 
sauce. One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pud- 
ding, or a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be 
added to give variety. 

Caramel Junket 

I quart milk i to 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 junket tablet, dissolved in i tablespoon lukewarm water 
Junket tablets are bought at a drug store for 10 cents a 

package. When added to milk junket causes it to become 
solid and it is then more easily digested. Directions must 
be very carefully followed. It is very useful for invalids 
and children. 

Brown I tablespoonful of sugar in a hot stewpan. Add 
the milk and leave on fire until sugar is all dissolved. Add 
more sugar if desired, and cool until lukewarm. Add the 
dissolved junket tablet, stir, pour mixture into dessert 
dishes and let stand until it jellies. Serve very cold. 

Lemon Jelly 

H box gelatin Va cup lemon juice 

Yz cup sugar Speck of salt 

Soak gelatin in a little cold water, pour on boiling water 
to dissolve it, add sugar and lemon juice and make up to I 
pint with cold water. Strain, set in cool place to harden. 
Orange and other fruit jellies made in the same way. 

CANDY 

A small amount of candy is useful in feeding children. 
When made at home by simple recipes, candy is one of our 
cheapest foods. It should be given children after meals 

only. Caramel Cream Candy 

2 cups sugar i^ cups water 
Heat Yz cup sugar in hot stew pan until it melts and 

turns a medium brown. Add remaining sugar and water 
and boil slowly so that it will be at least 30 minutes before 
it is done. Test by dropping ^ teaspoonful into a cup of 
very cold water. When it is cooked enough the syrup will 
harden in the water until it can be rolled by the fingers into 
a firm ball. It should not be hard enough to be brittle. 
Set aside to cool, and begin to beat when lukewarm. It will 
become lighter in color, and as soon as it begins to grain 
very slightly pour into a buttered plate and cut into squares. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



59 



Brittle 
Brittle is made from melted sugar. It may be combined 
with nuts and made into peanut brittle, walnut brittle, etc., 
or left plain. 

Place the amount of sugar to be used in a stewpan or 
frying pan, and melt over a low fire. Stir frequently anrl 
watch constantly or the sugar will brown too much while 
melting. It should be a very light brown when done. To 
cool, turn a tin pie pan upside down and pour the melted 
sugar on this. Scour the bottom of the pan before using 
and do not pour on enough to allow it to run over the 
sides. The nuts, if used, are added just before pouring 
out. They may be chopped fine or used whole. As soon 
as the candy is cool it may be easily broken loose from the 
pan by striking the inside of the pan. 

The brittle may be made light if desired by adding ^ 
teaspoonful soda to the candy made from 3 cups sugar. Sift 
it in and shake pan well to mix, then pour out quickly. 
FROZEN DESSERTS 
Frozen desserts are useful in very hot weather and may 
be made at home instead of allowing children to buy cheap 
ice cream cones which are often unclean and unwholesome. 
Ice Cream 
I quart milk i cup sugar 

4 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons caramel or 

I egg browned sugar 

K teaspoon salt 
Mix sugar and flour, add 2 cups milk and boil. Remove 
from fire, add egg, well beaten, stir and allow mixture to 
stand 10 minutes to cook the egg. Add other ingredients, 
cool and freeze. Fruit Ice 

4 cups water 2 cups sugar 

^ cup fruit juice (lemon, orange, plum, grape, etc., or a 
mixture of several) 
Boil sugar and water for 10 minutes. Cool, add fruit 
juice and freeze. 

To Freeze. Place the mixture to be frozen in a granite 
pail with a lid. The ice cream may be frozen in a good tin 
pail or in a baking powder can. Place the pail or can in a 
larger, vessel with layer of chopped ic^ ti.nder inside pail, 
then pack space between pails with chr--;r;ed ice mixed with 
coarse salt. U:r, i cup salt to 3 cu; ". :. '.^:.:-:; inner pail 



6o LOW COST COOKING 

constantly until mixture begins to freeze, then scrape from 
sides of pail, turn again, scrape, and so on until thick. 

Children love to do the freezing and three pails or cans of 
ice cream can be frozen at once in a dishpan half full of 
cracked ice. 

PRESERVES, JELLIES AND MARMALADES 

A combination of fruit and sugar, boiled until the fruit 
is cooked and the product is sweet and thick, is a useful 
food, and fairly economical when the fruit can be secured 
at the low price it can often be bought for during the height 
of the season. In jam and marmalade the whole of the 
fruit is used and they are for that reason more economical 
than jelly, which uses only the juice. The two methods may 
be combined sometimes, jam or marmalade being made from 
the pulp of the fruit after part of the juice has been drained 
off for jelly. 

Jams, Butters and Marmalades 

Cook fruit until soft with as little water as possible. 
Remove seeds by running through a colander, add ^ to I 
cup sugar to each cup of fruit and boil until the desired 
thickness is reached. Jams and butters are made thick 
enough to drop from the spoon, while marmalade is a little 
thinner. They may be made of plums, peaches, apples, 
grapes, berries of all kinds, tomatoes and many other fruits. 

Preserves 

Wash small fruit such as plums and berries and use 
whole. Large fruits such as peaches and pears should be 
pared and cut into pieces. Add ^ to ^4 cups of sugar to 
each cup of raw fruit and cook until the desired thickness 
is reached. All of the fruits named above may be used for 
preserves. jgUi^s 

In order to make good jelly a fruit must contain both 
acid and a substance called pectin. Some of the fruits good 
for jelly are currants, sour apples, crabapples, under-ripe 
grapes and plums. Peaches, pears, sweet apples and quinces 
alone will not make jelly as they do not contain enough 
acid. 

Extract the juice of the fruit by boiling; drain off the 
juice, strain it and add I cup sugar to each cup of juice. 
Boil 5 minutes for each cup of juice used, at the end of 



PRESERVES 6l 

which time it will usually be found to be done. The inex- 
perienced cook should test it by setting a small part aside 
to cool. This time rule will not hold if more than 3 cups 
of juice are boiled at once. It is better, however, to boil 
the jelly a little at a time, as large quantities require long 
boiling, which darkens the jelly. Skim off the dark froth 
which rises to the top with boiling. 

Sealing Jams and Preserves. The jam or preserves 
should be poured boiling hot into hot jars or glasses which 
have lain in boiling water for at least 3 minutes. A con- 
venient method for sealing the top is to pour over it when 
cold a layer of melted paraffine. When the fruit is used 
wash the sheet of paraffine and keep it for use again. 

Apple Jelly 
Wash apples well and cut into small pieces. Apple par- 
ings and cores alone may be used as these contain more 
pectin than the rest of the apple. Cook until apples are 
well softened using as little water as possible. Put into a 
clean bag made of thin cloth, such as flour or sugar sack and 
drain until as much juice as possible is out. Put 3 cups 
juice into stew pan with 3 cups of sugar, boil 15 minutes. 
Test by putting a few drops on cold plate and if necessary 
boil longer. Rhubarb and Fig Preserves 

4 pounds rhubarb i pound figs 

3 pounds sugar 
Cut rhubarb and figs into i inch pieces, add sugar and 
let it stand over night. In the morning let it cook slowly 
one hour, until figs are tender. Stir occasionally. 

Date and Prune Jam 

I pound prunes juice from Yi lemon 

I pound dates 54 cup sugar 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, stoned and 
cooked, lemon juice and sugar. Cook mixture until thick. 
In the same way prunes may be combined with figs, and 
figs with da^|:es. Sugar may be omitted. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

zVi pounds rhubarb 2 lemons 

3 pounds sugar 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into half-inch pieces. With a sharp knife 
pare off very thin the colored part of the lemon and orange, 



62 LOW COST COOKING 

cut it into small pieces and add to the rhubarb. Remove 
peel of the oranges and lemons, divide them into sections, 
remove seeds and add to mixture. Boil a half hour, add 
sugar and boil very slowly ij4 hours longer. 

APPETIZERS 

Pickles, catsups, etc., have little food value, but are useful 
to a certain extent as appetizers. They should not be used 
at all for children under 7 years of age and very sparingly 
for older children. They are hard for the delicate stom- 
achs of children to digest and spoil the appetite for the 
simple foods they should be taught to eat. The abnormal 
craving for appetizers is either the result of habit or is 
caused by the diet containing too little fruit and vegetables. 
It is much better to satisfy the appetite by adding more of 
these than by using pickles, etc., in large quantities. 

Sour Cucumbers 
6 large cucumbers ^ cup vinegar 

Yi. cup sugar spices 

Pare the cucumbers and cut the long way into eighths. 
Cover with hot salted water and cook until tender. Pour 
off water, add vinegar and sugar and enough water to 
cover. Tie i teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon 
in a thin white cloth and drop into the kettle; simmer ^ 
hour. The largest cucumbers that come into the market 
are best for this, which is more easily digested than pickles. 

Tomato Catsup 

Yz peck ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

I tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons mace 

54 cup sugar i teaspoon cayenne 

I cup vinegar pepper 

Scald tomatoes and remove skins. Add other ingre- 
dients and boil slowly until reduced one-half, then pass 
through sieve. Reheat and put into clean jars or bottles 
that have lain five minutes in boiling water. Seal tightly. 

Watermelon Rind Pickles 

Remove all the pink pulp and thin green skin from the 
rind and cut into cubes or strips. Cover with salt and 
water and boil one-half hour. Drain off the water, make 
enough syrup to cover, using i cup water and 34 cup sugar 



BEVERAGES 63 

to each cup of vinegar. Let the mixture boil, add whole 
cloves for seasoning and pour over the rind. Boil until 
rind is tender. 

BEVERAGES 

When v^ell made, cofifee and tea are suitable drinks for 
adults, but are always harmful to children. They are stim- 
ulants only and contain no food except what is given them 
by the sugar and milk added. 

Coffee 

One of the most important things about making good 
coffee is the care of the coffee pot. Coffee should never 
be used after it has stood on the grounds for an hour or 
more. Always make just enough for the meal and after- 
wards empty the pot, wash, dry and leave open to air 
until next used. If any coffee is left over, however, it may 
be kept good by draining from the grounds and keeping it 
in a covered vessel. It may then be used cold or reheated. 
Cold coffee is very refreshing in hot weather. 

Proportions. 2 level (one rounded) tablespoonfuls cof- 
fee makes a strong cup of coffee; lYz level tablespoonful 
makes medium strong and i level tablespoonful makes weak 
coffee. See page 67 for recipe and directions. 

Tea 

Have teapot hot when tea is put in. Use i teaspoon tea 
to each cup for strong tea, or as much less as is liked. Pour 
water into the pot just as soon as it has boiled. 

Drinks for Children 

Milk or buttermilk is, of course, the best drink for chil- 
dren. If a hot drink is desired, cocoa, cambric or cinnamon 
tea, toast tea or cereal drinks may be given. 

Cocoa 

4 teaspoons cocoa 4 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups water 54 teaspoon flour 

2 cups milk I pinch salt 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add enough cold water to 
dissolve and add remaining water and boil for 5 minutes 



64 LOW COST COOKING 

or longer. Add milk and heat, but do not allow it to boil 
after the milk is added. Before serving beat with an egg 
beater until it froths. This will prevent a scum from form- 
ing on the top. 

Cambric or Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups milk ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups boiling water 3 teaspoons sugar 

Serve hot. 

Toast Tea 

I cup toasted breadcrumbs 4 cups water 

Add boiling water to the toasted bread crumbs. Serve 
with sugar and milk as desired. 

Cereal Drinks 

Several cereal drinks, such as Postum, are on the market, 
but are rather expensive. Directions for making comes on 
the package. 

An economical cereal drink may be made by toasting 
barley, wheat, rye or other grains, grinding them in the 
coffee mill and boiling until the water is well colored. 
Serve with sugar and milk as desired. 

Summer Drinks 

Any fruit juice left from stewed or canned fruit can 
be used in making fruit drinks for summer, as well as 
lemon and orange juice. These are both refreshing and 
healthful. 

Cocoa Shells 
I cup shells 6 cups water 

Boil slowly 2 hours, strain and serve with milk and sugar. 



MENUS 

The menus in the following pages are given as samples of 
meals which furnish the food necessary to keep the body 
in health at the least possible cost. If the buying is care- 
fully done and the cooking all done at home these meals 
may be served for the amount of money indicated or even 
less by unusually careful buying. If the buying is care- 
lessly done, however, or if any of the foods are bought 
ready cooked they may easily cost twice as much. 

Only the cheapest materials for furnishing each kind of 
food needed are used. For furnishing energy, cereals, in- 
cluding breadstuffs and fats of meat, bacon strips, suet, 
salad oils and oleomargarine are used. 

For furnishing protein the cheap cuts of meat, cheese and 
legumes are used for adults, milk and eggs for small chil- 
dren. 

For furnishing the mineral the cheapest fresh vegetables 
and fruits of each season are used. In winter dried fruits, 
root vegetables and canned tomatoes are chiefly used for 
this purpose. 

With only these materials to use it is hard to keep the 
bill of fare from becoming monotonous, and monotony is a 
destroyer of appetite. The menus therefore are planned 
to give as many different ways of preparing these food 
materials as possible and of new combinations. For this 
reason the same dish is seldom given twice, although of 
course a dish that is liked may be repeated several times 
per week without becoming tiresome. 

For the same reason the dishes in most common use, such 
as meat soups and stews, although excellent, are seldom 
used in these menus. Most housekeepers are familiar with 
them, use them largely and do not need to be reminded of 
them. 

Recipes give quantities suitable for serving families of 
six with two adults, of seven with one. 

65 



WINTER MEALS 

BREAKFAST 

Monday 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES WITH CARAMEL SYRUP 

FRIED BACON STRIP 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS, MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

2 cups cornmeal iH cups liquid, milk and 

1 cup flour water mixed 

2 tablespoons melted drip- 6 teaspoons baking powder 
pings i>4 teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid and mix quickly. 
Have ready a hot greased griddle or frying pan, drop the 
mixture in by tablespoonfuls, as many as the pan will hold 
without their touching. Cook on slow fire until the cakes 
are brown on the lower side and the bubbles burst in the 
top; turn each cake to brown on the other side. Cook in 
this way until the batter is all used. Serve hot. 

"Drippings" 

By drippings is meant the fat from roasting, frying or 
boiling meat, fat trimmings, etc. Every hit of fat corning 
into the house should be saved and used. 

When more fat is needed the soft flank fat of beef or 
pork, which sells for about lo cents a pound, may be used. 
Cut the fat into small pieces, removing any skin and bits 
of meat. Cover with cold salted water and let stand for 
4 or 5 hours or over night. This improves keeping qualities 
and flavor. Soak again if there is time. Now melt the 
fat slowly in the oven or over boiling water and cook 
until the scraps are crisp but not brown. Strain into clean 
pails, cans or jars which can be covered. Keep in a cool 
place. Use like lard, Crisco, etc., which costs about 5 cents 
a pound more. When using in recipes calling for butter, 
add more salt and take a little less because butter contains 
salt and is one-eighth water. 

Strongly flavored fats from bacon, ham and sausage 

66 



WINTER MEALS 67 

should be kept separate and used for hashes or warming 
over potatoes. Caramel Syrup 

2 cups sugar J^ cup water 

Put sugar and water in stewing pan, boil the syrup, stir- 
ring occasionally until it turns a light brown. Add i cup 
boiling water, and boil until of thickness desired. 

Fried Bacon Strips 

Cut thin slices of bacon from the strip. Remove skin and 
rind, lay the slices in a cold frying pan, cook until crisp and 
brown, turning as necessary. 

Bacon strips are the odd-shaped pieces of bacon cut from the side 
in the process of trimming. It sells for 14 to 22 cents per pound in 
pieces weighing 4 to 8 pounds. 

Coffee 

54 cup ground coffee 2 cups (i pint) boiling water 

Moisten coffee with cold water ; add to boiling water and 
boil from one to three minutes. Keep hot without boiling 
for ten minutes longer. Add 2 tablespoons of cold water 
to settle the grounds and it is ready to serve. 

If a crushed egg-shell is added to the ground coffee with 
the cold water when making it will settle more easily and 
surely. Do not allow the coffee to stand on the grounds ; 
if not served at once, pour off and keep hot. See that the 
coffee pot is well washed and aired. Ground coffee loses 
flavor and strength, and if possible it is best to grind the 
coffee in a small hand mill just before making. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water to boil for coffee; set table except for the 
plates, which should be heated in some convenient way. Cut 
and prepare bacon. Make coffee if water has boiled. Meas- 
ure out ingredients for griddle cakes, mix them and start 
cooking, placing the cakes as they are done on a plate over 
a pan of boiling water. When the cakes are half done 
fry the bacon attending to both at the same time. The hot 
drippings from the bacon may be used with the cakes. 

Wash the top of the milk bottle, remove stopper and 
pour off the top of the milk for coffee; put the rest in 
glasses for the children. Serve the cakes on the hot plates, 
settle and pour the coffee. 



68 LOW COST COOKING 

-- , LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Monday 

RICE WITH TOMATOES AND CHEESE 

BREAD AND OLEO 

TEA FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rice with Tomatoes and Cheese 

I cup rice 2-mch cube of cheese 

Yz can tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

54 teaspoon pepper 

Wash the rice, sift it slowly into about 5 cups of boiHng, 
salted water. Boil 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally 
with a fork. When done evaporate the water by leaving it 
partly covered on a low fire. Add the tomatoes and pepper 
and boil. Pour into vegetable dish, and grate the cheese 
over the top. 

Tea 
V/2 teaspoonful tea 2 cups boiling water 

Put the tea into a hot teapot, and pour the water freshly 
boiled over it. Steep i to 3 minutes, never longer. Do not 
make the tea until ready to serve it, for tea becomes bitter 
and harmful if allowed to stand on the leaves. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the rice a half hour before meal time. While it is 
cooking, set the table and put on the water for the tea. 
Finish the rice and make the tea. 

iv/r A DINNER 

Monday 

MEAT SOUP WITH CEREAL AND VEGETABLES 

TOASTED BREAD 

DRIED APPLE COBBLER 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Meat Soup with Cereal and Vegetables 

2J/2 pounds soup beef 2 tablespoons celery leaves or 

1 cup barley, rice or parsley 

macaroni 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 tablespoons onion 2 cups carrot or celery root 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Choose shank, shoulder bone or neck bones, or any cheap 
cuts of beef, part lean and part bone. A piece which is Yz 
lean meat, the rest bone with a little fat, is best for soups. 



WINTER MEALS 69 

Wipe the meat clean with a cloth, wet with cold water, 
remove the fat if there is too much. Try it out in 
the oven and use as drippings. Do not allow the soup 
to be so greasy as to spoil the digestion of a child. Cover 
the meat (cut in rather small pieces) with cold water and 
allow it to cook slowly, but not boil, for from 6 to 10 
hours. Add barley 2 hours before meal time. Wash and 
pare the vegetables, cut them in 3^ inch cubes, and add i 
hour before meal time. Mince onion and celery leaves fine 
and add with the vegetables. 

Dried Apple Cobbler 

iH cups dried apples i teaspoon cinnamon or nutmeg 

Yz cup sugar 

Wash dried apples very carefully, soak 6 hours, or over 
night, cook slowly in same water until tender. Add sugar 
and place in baking dish. Sprinkle more sugar and cinna- 
mon or nut rneg over top. Cover with the crust made as 
below, bake until brown in a moderately hot oven. Serve 
hot. Use fresh apples instead of dried when they are as 
cheap. Crust for Cobbler 

1 cup flour i^ tablespoons fat 
Yz cup milk or water Yi teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift flour with salt and baking powder, rub the 
fat into the flour with the finger tips, add milk and mix 
with a knife. Turn the dough on a floured board, and roll 
or pat to the thickness of >4 inch. 
Preparing the Meal 

Wash apples and put to soak the night before. Start the 
meat to cook for soup immediately after breakfast, and 
let it simmer on back of range all day. About two hours 
before dinner time add the barley to the soup, and put 
the dried apples on to cook. Prepare the vegetables and 
add them to the soup; Yz hour before meal time make 
pie crust and put pie in oven. Put bread in oven to toast; 
make coffee and set table. 

Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OAT MEAL MUSH WITH DATES SERVED WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST 
COCOA FOR CHILDREN — COFFEE FOR ADULTS 



70 LOW COST COOKING 

Oat Meal Mush with Dates 

i^ cups oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

I teaspoon salt 

Sift oat meal slowly into boiling water, stirring constantly, 
boil three minutes, then cover closely and set pan in a larger 
vessel containing boiling water. Continue cooking i or 2 
hours longer. If placed the evening before in a fireless 
cooker it will be done in the morning, or it may cook over 
night on the back of a coal range where it can remain hot. 
Fifteen minutes before serving add the dates, washed, 
stoned and cut in halves. 

Toast 

SHce stale bread J^ to ^ inch thick, lay in oven until 
brown, or brown over coals. 
Preparing the Meal 

Start oat meal cooking the night before. In the morning 
put it on to reheat, add dates, and make the coffee. Make 
toast; set table. Pour off top part of the milk for cereal 
and coffee. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Tuesday 

CREAMED CARROTS 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 

TEA FOR ADULTS 

Creamed Carrots 

Two pints of carrots, 3 cups of white sauce. Wash and 
pare carrots, cut into pieces ^ inch thick, ^ inch square. 
Cover with boiling water. Add 2 teaspoons of salt and cook 
until tender. Remove cover from pan, evaporate the water, 
and add the white sauce, made separately ; or, more simply, 
rub together 4 tablespoons of flour and 3 of drippings with 
^ cup of water and 2^ cups of milk ; add to cooked carrots 
and boil. 

White Sauce 

3 cups milk or milk and 3 tablespoons dripping or oleo 
water, mixed i>^ teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons flour 

Stir the flour in hot drippings or oleo, add milk gradually, 
boil, stirring constantly until smooth and thick. 



WINTER MEALS 



71 



Toast Tea 

I cup toast crumbs 4 cups boiling water 

Roll toast left from breakfast with a rolling pin, add 

boiling water to the crumbs, stir until partly dissolved. 

Serve hot with sugar and milk. 

Preparing the Meal 
Wash and pare carrots and put them on to cook a^ hour 

before meal time ; prepare toast crumbs ; set table ; add 

dressing to carrots ; make toast tea and tea. 

Tuesday DINNER 

NAVY BEANS V^ITH SHANK OF SALT PORK 

TOMATO CATSUP 

CORN BREAD STEWED APRICOTS AND PEACHES 

COFFEE MILK 

Beans Boiled with Meat 

3 cups navy beans 2 pounds shank salt pork 

Pick over and wash the beans ; wash meat carefully and 
remove skin and part of fat. (This fat can be fried out 
by cutting up and heating in a dish in the oven and used for 
drippings.) Add meat to the beans, cover well with boiling 
water, cook slowly 4 or 5 hours, adding more water if nec- 
essary until both meat and beans are tender. This may be 
done in a fireless cooker. 

There will be enough beans left from this amount for 
lunch on the following day. 

Southern Corn Bread 

3 cups corn meal (prefer- i teaspoon salt 

ably white) i egg 

lYz cup thick sour milk 3 tablespoons melted drippings 

^ teaspoon cooking soda 
Beat Q:gg in mixing bowl, add milk, sift in meal with soda 
and salt, and add melted fat. Beat quickly until well 
mixed, pour into hot, well-greased pan and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven. Cut in squares and serve hot. Egg may 
be omitted. 

If sweetened corn bread is preferred, use yellow corn 
meal and add 3 tablespoons sugar. 

Flour may be used in place of one of the cups of corn 
meal. 



^2 LOW COST COOKING 

Dried Apricots and Peaches 

Yi. pound apricots ^ pound peaches 

Wash the fruit, soak over night in cold water, cook slowly 
in same water until tender. Add sugar to taste, about Yz 
cup. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start beans and meat cooking while lunch is being pre- 
pared. Let dried fruit be cooking at the same time, and 
set aside to cool when done. Half an hour before meal time 
make corn bread and put in to bake. Twenty minutes be- 
fore meal time make the coffee, set the table, then serve 
the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

FRIED BACON STRIP TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Mush 

lYz cups graham flour 4 cups boiling water 

I cup cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix the flour with the cold water to prevent it from 
lumping when added to the boiling water. Pour this mix- 
ture into the boiling salted water, stirring all the while. 
Boil 5 minutes, set in a larger pan of boiling water and 
continue cooking ^ to i hour ; or leave closely covered over 
night on the back of the stove, or in a fireless cooker. 

Preparing the Meal 

The graham mush should be started the night before. 
About Yz hour before breakfast time put it on to reheat. 
Make coffee, set the table, fry bacon and make the toast. 



Wednesday 



LUNCH OR SUPPER 



BEAN POLENTA 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

HOT STEWED DRIED APPLES 

TEA FOR ADULTS — CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 



WINTER MEALS 73 

Bean Polenta 

4 cups white beans (cooked) ^ teaspoon mustard 
i>^ tablespoons molasses % teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons vinegar 

Drain the water from cold boiled beans, mash them fine, 
and mix with the other ingredients. Form the mixture into 
cakes and brown on both sides in hot greased pan. 
Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups scalded milk 3 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups boiling water % teaspoon cinnamon 

Add the boiling water to the scalded milk and sugar just 
before serving. Sprinkle the cinnamon over the top. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash the dried apples and put them to soak the night 
before. About an hour before meal time put them on to 
cook in the same water. One-half hour before meal time 
make the polenta, using the beans left from dinner the day 
before, and put the cakes on to brown. While they are 
browning put the milk on to heat for the cinnamon tea and 
set the table. When the polenta is done make the tea and 
the cinnamon tea. 
Wednesday DINNER 

STEW WITH VEGETABLES 

BREAD 

SUET PUDDING 

Stew with Vegetables 

VA to 2 pounds stew meat i onion 

2 carrots 2 sprigs parsley 

2 turnips i tablespoon salt 

. 4 to 6 potatoes 34 teaspoon pepper 

Neck or breast of lamb or veal or inexpensive cuts of 
beef may be used. Have the butcher cut the pieces of meat 
rather small. Put them into the kettle in which the stew is 
to be cooked and place over a hot fire, stirring occasionally 
until the outside is well browned. Cover with hot water 
and cook slowly, without boiling, until the meat is tender. 
Add the vegetables pared and cut into pieces, during the 
last hour of cooking. Thicken the gravy with two table- 
spoons of flour, mixed with a little cold water, just before 
serving. 



74 LOW COST COOKING 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups bread crumbs ^ teaspoon salt 

I cup finely chopped suet Grating of nutmeg 

I cup sugar i cup milk or water 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan, or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, 
and set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an 
hour. 

For boiling, tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 2j^ to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way as 
cake. 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces, or as a cake with- 
out sauce. 

One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pudding, or 
a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be added 
to give variety. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 3 hours before meal time put the meat for the 
stew on to cook; add the vegetables to the stew, make 
the suet pudding; while it is cooking, make the coffee and 
set the table. Serve the stew on a large platter with the 
meat piled in the center and the pieces of vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. Serve the pudding, like cake, cut in 
squares without sauce. 

Extra Baking 

Just before starting lunch mix the bread and set it to 
rise. It will be ready for the second kneading after lunch 
is over. Make rolls from part of the bread dough. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 yeast cakes stirred into Vz cup 

2 tablespoons sugar of lukewarm water 
2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and 
about 5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining 
flour and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and 
knead until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased 



WINTER MEALS 75 

pan, greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean 
cloth. Place where it will keep at a warm, even tempera- 
ture. When the dough has raised to double its size, which 
will be in about i^ hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the common 
bakers' loaf, which weighs 12 ounces. This recipe will make 
eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 
or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooling. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour 2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

1/3 cup sugar or molasses ^ i tablespoon salt 

I yeast cake dissolved in % cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread. If caraway seeds are desired add one 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

Roll bread dough to ^ inch thick at second kneading: 
spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, roll 
into a long roll, cut into 3^ inch slices ; grease these on the 
outside, place in baking pan. When they have risen to twice 
their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 

At the second kneading roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of ^ inch and spread with a ^ inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 



^^ LOW COST COOKING 

inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold the dough so that there 
will be a layer of prunes between two layers of dough, grease 
the outside, place in a greased pan, allow them to rise to 
twice their size, bake. 

Coffee Cake 

I cup hot milk J/3 cup sugar 

Yz cup lard i teaspoon salt 

Yz yeast cake dissolved in Y\ cup lukewarm water 

Add hot milk with lard and salt; when lukewarm, add 
dissolved yeast, flour enough to make the stiff batter — about 
three cups — cover dish and let the batter rise, then spread in 
a well greased pan, sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise, 
bake. If raisins are desired add y^. cup just before putting 
into baking pan. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday 

RYE MUFFINS 

FRIED SALT PORK WITH MILK GRAVY 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rye Muffins 

V/i. cups rye flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

iH cups white flour 6 teaspoons baking powder 

V/i teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons drippings 
iH cup milk or water 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add liquid and melted drip- 
pings and beat. Put quickly into heated, greased muffin 
pan and bake about 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Fried Salt Pork with Milk Gravy 
Cut the pork in very thin slices and fry in a hot pan until 
crisp and brown. Take out pork, pour off all but 3 table- 
spoons of the drippings, and into this rub 2 tablespoons 
flour. Add i cup of water slowly, boil well, add a cup 
of milk. Cut the fried pork in 3^ inch pieces and mix with 
the gravy. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water on to boil for coffee ; make the muffins. While 
they are baking make the coffee, set the table, fry the pork 
and make the gravy. 



WINTER MEALS 



n 



Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

PUREE (thick soup) OF LIMA BEANS 

TOASTED MUFFINS 

BAKED BANANA 

TEA FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Puree of Lima Beans 

4 cups cooked lima beans 2 slices fat pork 
2 cups water i tablespoon flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

For additional flavoring, if desired, use i tablespoon each 
of onion, parsley or celery, chopped fine. Fry pork until 
crisp and brown, break or cut it into small bits, stir the flour 
into the drippings and pork, and if onion or celery is used 
add this at the same time and cook for a few minutes. Add 
water and boil, mash the beans fine, and add them. If the 
whole is too thick, add more water. The soup may be made 
more nutritious by using milk instead of water. 

Baked Banana 

Baked banana is more easily digested than raw. Peel 
the bananas, cut lengthwise into halves, place in baking pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven for about 15 minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

The lemon juice may be omitted and the bananas served 
with milk and sugar. 
Preparing the Meal 

Wash and soak beans over night, put on to cook at 
breakfast time and cook slowly until tender. Twenty min- 
utes before meal time, put muffins left over from breakfast, 
and any other scraps of bread, in the oven to toast. Pre- 
pare bananas and put in to bake. Make the soup, set the 
table, and make the tea. 

Thursday DINNER 

FLANK STEAK BRAISED WITH VEGETABLES 

BROWNED PARSNIPS 

STEWED FIGS 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Flank Steak Braised with Vegetables 
Have the butcher score the steak when it is bought, or, 
better still, beat it well with a hammer. Dredge well with 



78 LOW COST COOKING 

flour and lay in baking pan. Over it place a thick layer of 
thinly sliced raw potatoes, then a layer of thinly sliced 
onion. Pour over this 2 cups of stewed tomatoes, cover 
closely and cook slowly in oven 23^2 to 3 hours. One-half 
hour before the meat is done, remove the cover. Add 
water as necessary, and leave it to cook uncovered. In 
serving, place it whole on a platter and cut down as through 
a loaf. 

Browned Parsnips 
Pare parsnips, cut in halves, and cook in boiling, salted 
water until tender. Cut lengthwise into slices ^ inch thick, 
brown in a hot, greased pan, or in the oven with baking 
meat. They may be served plain boiled and if any are 
left over they may be browned at the next serving. 

Stewed Figs 
Use dried figs that are not pressed. They are usually sold 
for cooking at 10 to 12 cents per pound. Wash carefully 
and soak over night, or for several hours. Cook slowly in 
the same water until tender. Add sugar if desired. 

Preparing the Meal 

After breakfast wash J^ pound cooking figs and put to 
soak. Three hours before meal time prepare the steak and 
put it in to bake ; 13^ hours before prepare the parsnips and 
start them to boil, and put figs on to cook ; 3^ hour before 
lay the parsnips cut in slices in the pan to brown. Make 
the coffee, set the table. 

The parsnips might be omitted from this dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday 

FRIED HOMINY MUSH WITH BROWN SUGAR SYRUP 

TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Hominy Mush 

Pour one part hominy slowly into four parts boiling, 
salted water, stir till it thickens and then cook slowly in a 
double boiler for 3 hours or more, or over night in a fire- 
less cooker. 

Pour boiled hominy into a deep, greased pan until it is 



WINTER MEALS 79 

3 inches or more in depth. The next day turn the mixture 
out of the pan, slice in ^ inch slices and brown both sides 
in hot, greased pan. 

Brown Sugar Syrup 

Melt 2 cups of brown sugar with i cup hot water; boil 
5 minutes and cool. 
iPreparing the Meal 

Start 2 cups of hominy to cook as a mush the day before 
while lunch is being prepared. Let it cook all afternoon 
and pour the part for breakfast into the pan and leave over- 
night in a cold place. Set the rest aside to bake with 
cheese on Saturday. The next morning make the coffee, 
start to fry the mush, and while it is cooking make the 
syrup and set the table. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Friday 

RICE SOUP WITH CROUTONS 
RICE AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Rice Soup 

3 cups rice water i tablespoon chopped onion 

2 cups carrots i tablespoon chopped celery 

2 tablespoons drippings. 1 tablespoon flour 

Scrape the carrots, cut in small pieces and cook until ten- 
der. Heat the drippings, add the onions and celery to it 
and cook them 5 minutes without browning. Stir in the 
flour, add this mixture to the carrots, add the rice water with 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Croutons 
Cut stale bread into small cubes or in strips 2 inches wide, 
^ inches thick, or in any fancy shapes desired. Dry in a 
slow oven until crisp and light brown all the way through. 

Rice and Corn Meal Muffins 

I cup cooked rice 5 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup flour 1% cups liquid 

I teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons melted drippings 

I cup corn meal 

Mix and sift dry ingredients together, add rice to liquid 
ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and put 



8o LOW COST COOKING 

quickly into hot, greased muffin pans. Bake about 20 min- 
utes in a moderately hot oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

A half hour before meal time put 2 cups of rice on to 
boil. Use the rice for the scalloped fish for dinner and 
for the muffins, and the rice water for the soup. Prepare 
the carrots and put them on to cook. Cut the croutons into 
y^ inch cubes and put them in the oven to brown. Make the 
muffins and while they are baking, set the table. Finish 
the soup and serve with the croutons sprinkled over the 
top of each bowl. 

DINNER 

Friday 

SCALLOPED SALT FISH 

BOILED BEETS 

HOT GINGERBREAD 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Scalloped Salt Fish 

i^ cups salt fish 2 cups thin white sauce 

3 cups boiled rice 

Shred the salt fish and soak in hike warm water for about 
an hour, or until the pieces are softened. Fill a baking 
dish with alternate layers of the fish and boiled rice which 
has been mixed with the white sauce. Cover with bread 
crumbs and bake until hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Gingerbread 

2 cups flour ^ cup molasses 

1/2 cup sugar Yz cup hot water 

1 teaspoon ginger 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

2 teaspoons baking powder pings 

^ teaspoon soda Vz teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to the molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Boiled Beets 

Wash the beets without breaking the skin and boil for 
3 hours or until tender. Drop in cold water and rub off 
the skins, slice, season with salt and oleo and serve hot. 



WINTER MEALS 8l 

Or the sliced beets may be soaked for an hour or two 
in weak vinegar and used as Pickled Beets. 
Preparing the Meal 

Start the beets to cooking at breakfast time if wanted 
pickled, otherwise later. At ^ hour before meal time make 
the gingerbread, prepare the scalloped fish and put in oven. 
While these are baking make the coffee, skin and slice 
the beets and set the table. 

Saturday BREAKFAST 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Corn Meal Mush 

i^ cups corn meal 6 cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Sift the corn meal slowly into the boiling, salted water, 
stirring constantly to prevent it from lumping. After boil- 
ing 10 minutes, place the kettle in a larger pan of boiling 
water or in a fireless cooker to cook over night. 

Date and Prune Jam 

I pound prunes i pound dates 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, cleaned and 
stoned. Cook mixture until thick. In the same way prunes 
may be combined with figs, and figs with dates ; add a little 
lemon juice for the flavor. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the jam the day before, while preparing lunch. 
Start the corn meal to cooking the night before. In the 
morning set on stove to reheat 3^ hour before breakfast 
time. Start the coffee, make the toast, set the table. Serve 
the mush in cereal bowls with sugar and the top half of 
the bottle of milk. 

Saturday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

HOMINY BAKED WITH CHEESE 

STEWED RAISINS 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 



82 LOW COST COOKING 

Hominy Baked with Cheese 

Put alternate layers of boiled hominy and grated cheese 
in baking dish. Add enough milk, thin white sauce or 
water to moisten. Cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Stewed Raisins 

Wash black, seedless raisins and soak over night. Cook 
slowly in the same water until tender. Add sugar if de- 
sired. 
Preparing the Meal 

Put raisins to soak the night before and cook during 
breakfast. One-half hour before lunch time prepare the 
hominy using that left from breakfast the day before and 
put in the oven to bake. While it is baking, set the table 
and make the tea. 

c, , , DINNER 

Saturday 

CORN BEEF WITH VEGETABLES 

BAKED POTATOES 

APPLE SAUCE 

tCOFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Corn Beef with Vegetables 

2 lbs. brisket of corn beef ^ lb. turnips 
Yi lb. cabbage i lb. carrots 

Yi lb. rutabaga i onion 

Wipe the meat, cover with cold water and bring slowly 
to the boiling point. After boiling 5 minutes remove the 
scum and continue cooking just below the boiling point for 
about 3 hours. When the meat is tender, remove it and 
cook the vegetables in the water. Cut these in uniform size 
and cook them until tender. If small, the carrots may be 
cut in halves, if large in quarters, and other vegetables in 
similar size. Cabbage should be added about 10 minutes 
later than the others. Serve the meat on a large platter 
surrounded by the vegetables. Almost any other vegetables, 
beets, peas, etc., may be used instead of part of those named. 

Apple Sauce 

Wash 6 sour apples and cut into eighths with skins on. 
Remove core, and decayed spots. Cover with hot water and 



WINTER MEALS 83 

cook slowly until tender. Remove from fire and add about 
Yz cup sugar, or to taste. Serve either hot or cold, but not 
luke warm. 

Preparing the Meal 

Four or five hours before meal time put the meat on to 
cook; I hour before wash 6 medium sized potatoes and lay 
them in the oven to bake. Wash and pare the vegetables, 
remove the meat from the kettle, laying it in the warming 
oven to keep warm. While the vegetables are cooking make 
the apple sauce and the coffee and set the table. 

If more convenient the potatoes may be pared and quar- 
tered and cooked with the other vegetables. 

Extra Baking 

Make bread in the morning so that it will be ready to bake 
late in the afternoon when the corned beef is cooking. After 
the dishes from the noon meal are washed, make and bake 
the oatmeal cookies for Sunday. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 2 teaspoons baking powder 

J/2 cup flour 2 tablespoons oleo 

I cup sugar i pinch of salt 

I egg 3 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add ^gg beaten, and milk. Drop by 
teaspoonfuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

e , BREAKFAST 

Sunday 

GRAHAM BISCUITS WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

SCRAMBLED EGG 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Biscuits 

iVz cups graham flour i cup liquid 

lYz cups white flour 3 tablespoons lard or crisco 

V/z teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly 
through by cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly 
with the fingers. Add the liquid, mixing with a knife. 
Turn the mixture on floured bread board. Roll or pat to 3^ 
inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 15 to 20 minutes 
in a hot oven. 



84 LOW COST COOKING 

Scrambled Egg 

Beat 4 eggs light, add Yi teaspoon baking powder, i 
teaspoon salt, pepper to taste, and beat again. Boil Y^ cup 
milk or milk and water mixed with i tablespoon flour in the 
frying pan. Cool a little and add the eggs. Stir the mix- 
ture constantly over a very low fire until the eggs are 
cooked but not tough. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the biscuits and leave them standing in the baking 
pan until about 20 minutes before time for breakfast. This 
may be done the night before in cold weather if each bis- 
cuit is brushed over with melted fat to prevent a crust 
from forming and the pan is closely covered to keep out 
dust and germs. Make the coffee, put the biscuits in oven 
and scramble the eggs. In serving the biscuits, take out 
only enough for once around, leaving the others in oven 
to keep hot. 

^ , LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Sunday 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

OATMEAL COOKIES BLACK OLIVES 

COCOA 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Place alternate layer of bread crumbs and canned or ripe 
tomatoes and seasoning of salt and pepper in baking dish 
with crumbs on top. If desired add an onion finely chopped 
to the tomatoes. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

One-half hour before meal time, prepare the tomatoes 
and put them in the oven. While they are heating make 
the cocoa and set the table. Serve the cookies made on 
Saturday. 

^ , DINNER 

Sunday 

MEAT LOAF WITH BROWNED POTATOES 

CREAMED RUTABAGA CABBAGE SALAD 

BAKED APPLES WITH RAISINS 

COFFEE MILK 



WINTER MEALS 85 

Meat Loaf 

1 pound chopped meat i cup thick white sauce 

2 cups bread crumbs Flavor with salt and pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly together, form into loaf and 
bake in moderate oven for two hours. One tablespoon 
minced onion may be added if desired. 

Thick White Sauce 

I cup liquid 2 tablespoons drippings 

3H tablespoons flour Yz tablespoon salt 

Add liquid slowly to flour, stirring to make a smooth 
paste. Pour into drippings and boil, stirring constantly 
until thick and smooth. 

Creamed Rutabaga 

Wash and pare the rutabaga and cut in pieces about ^ 
inch square and ^ inch long. Cook in boiling, salted water 
until tender. Evaporate the water by leaving kettle uncov- 
ered on fire. Add 3 cups of thin white sauce made sepa- 
rately, or stir 3 tablespoons of flour into ^ cup water and 
add this with 2^ cups of milk and water to the vegetables 
and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

Cabbage Salad 

Shave the cabbage fine and add salt and pepper. Cut 
two thin slices of bacon into small pieces and fry till brown. 
While very hot pour over the cabbage. Add a little vinegar. 

Baked Apple v^ith Raisins 

Remove the core from 6 medium sized apples. Put 
them in baking dish, fill the cavity with sugar and seedless 
raisins, add ^ cup water and bake in a moderate oven until 
the apples are soft. 

Preparing the Meal 

Two hours before meal time prepare the meat loaf and 
put in oven ; i hour before pare 6 medium sized potatoes 
cut in halves and lay in the pan with the meat. Prepare the 
apples and start them to baking. Put the rutabaga on and 
while it is cooking, make the cabbage salad and the cofifee, 
set the table, finish the rutabaga. Serve the loaf whole with 
the potatoes arranged on the platter around it. 



SUMMER MEALS 



Monday BREAKFAST 

POTATO CAKES 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

COFFEE MILK 

Potato Cakes 

Mix left over mashed potatoes with such scraps of meat, 
dressing and gravy as may be on hand. Add bread crumbs 
as necessary to make the mixture stiff enough to form into 
cakes. Brown cakes on both sides in hot greased pan. 

If no meat is on hand omit or use a Httle bacon or salt 
pork. 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Wash and peel 8 large stalks of rhubarb. Cut into Yz 
inch pieces, and add almost enough cold water to cover. 
Boil gently until the pieces are tender but still whole. Add 
sugar to; taste and set aside to cool. Part of this juice 
may be poured off to make a fruit drink and the remainder 
served with the sauce. 

There will be sauce enough for breakfast and to serve 
with rice for Tuesday's dinner. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make potato cakes and put them on to brown. Make 
enough coffee for dinner as well as for breakfast, and 
as soon as the last cup to be used hot is poured, pour the 
remainder off of the grounds and set aside to cool. This 
is to be used for iced coffee in the evening. Rhubarb 
sauce should be made the day before and served cold. Make 
the toast and set the table. 

Monday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

RICE AND CHEESE RAREBIT ON TOAST 

APPLE SAUCE 

MILK FOR CHILDREN — TEA FOR ADULTS 

86 



SUMMER MEALS 87 

Rice and Cheese Rarebit 

^ cup of rice 2 tablespoons flour 

yi cup of cheese i^ teaspoons salt 

iy2 cups of milk ^4 teaspoon pepper 

Boil rice in plenty of water. When cooked tender add 
milk and the flour mixed with ^ cup of water. Allow 
this to boil, add salt and pepper, and when it again reaches 
boiling point, remove from the fire and add cheese chopped 
fine. Stir cheese through the hot mixture until it melts 
and serve on toast. 

Apple Sauce 

Wash and quarter 6 summer apples and remove cores. 
Cover with hot water and cook slowly until apples are 
tender, but do not lose shape. Add Yz cup sugar just 
before removing from fire. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the apple sauce just after the breakfast is over and 
set away to cool ; ^ hour before meal time put the rice on 
to cook. Set the table, finish the rarebit and make the tea. 

Monday DINNER 

HAMBURGER STEAK WITH TOMATOES 

RICED POTATOES 

HASHED KOHLRABI 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

ICED COFFEE MILK 

Hamburger Steak with Tomatoes 

i^ pounds chopped beef Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan to brown, stirring con- 
stantly. When part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, 
cover closely and continue cooking on low fire until done. 
Use fresh tomatoes if cheaper. 

Riced Potatoes 
Press plain boiled potatoes, hot, through ricer, letting 
them fall into dish in which they will be served. A potato 
ricer is a great convenience and may be bought for from 
25 cents to 50 cents. 

Hashed Kohlrabi 
Pare kohlrabi, cut into quarters and cook until tender 



88 LOW COST COOKING 

in boiling salted water. Evaporate water, chop fine and 
add 3 tablespoons of drippings. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the potatoes and kohlrabi and put them on to 
cook one-half hour before the meal time. Prepare the 
hamburger steak. Set the table and add ice to the coffee, 
or if without ice put into a clean milk bottle and place in a 
pan under cold running water. Hash the kohlrabi, rice the 
potatoes and serve the meal. (Use oatmeal cookies made on 
the last baking day, see page 83.) 

Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OATMEAL WITH TOP MILK 

FRUIT TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fruit Toast 

Use 6 slices of toast with 2 cups of stewed fruit. Fruit, 
such as plums, berries, cherries, rhubarb, etc., stewed with 
plenty of water, may be used. Pour it over the freshly 
toasted bread. It may be served hot or cold. 
Preparing the Meal 

Set the oatmeal on the fire to reheat after cooking over 
night. Make stewed fruit by boiling ^ dozen plums or 
other fruit in plenty of water. Make the coffee and the 
toast. 
Tuesday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

SPLIT PEAS WITH CARROTS 

PRUNE ROLLS 

TEA — MILK 

Split Peas with Carrots 

Use 3 cups split peas, cooked, and 3 cups of boiled car- 
rots. Mash the peas fine and add salt and pepper to taste. 
Add carrots, cut in small pieces, and >4 cup of milk. Re- 
heat and serve. 
Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2 cups of peas over night and start them to cook 
2 hours before meal time. This will make enough for 



SUMMER MEALS 



89 



lunch croquettes on Wednesday also. Wash and scrape 
carrots and cut in ^ inch cubes. Cook in boiling, salted 
water for ^ hour before meal time. Set the table and add 
mashed peas to carrots. Make tea enough for this meal 
and for iced tea for dinner. As soon as the hot tea is 
poured, pour off the remainder and set aside to cool. Use 
prune rolls made on the last baking day. 

Tuesday DINNER 

POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES 

STEAMED RICE WITH STEWED CHERRIES 

ICED TEA — FRUIT DRINK FOR CHILDREN 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 lbs. meat 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 cups carrots 2 cups parsnips 

2 cups rutabagas i onion 

Choose a piece of meat with some bone and a little fat, 
such as pork or beef shoulder, or brisket. Brown the meat 
well on all sides in a hot kettle, with a bit of fat. Add 2 
cups of water, cover closely and cook slowly for about 
4 hours, adding water as necessary. The last three-quarters 
of an hour add the vegetables, pared and cut in pieces. 
Serve the meat whole on the platter with vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. 

Steamed Rice 

I cup rice lYz teaspoon salt 

3 cups boiling water 

Wash rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is clean. Add 
rice to boiling water and boil for 5 minutes. Place stew- 
pan, closely covered, in larger kettle of boiling water and 
steam for 50 minutes. 

Steamed Rice with Stewed Cherries 

Use I box of cherries to 3 cups of steamed rice. Wash 
and stone the cherries, cover with water and cook until 
tender. Add sugar to taste. Pour ^ cup of fruit over 
each dessert dish of rice. 

Preparing the Meal 
Four hours before meal time put the pot roast on to 



90 LOW COST COOKING 

cook. If a 3-pound piece is used, enough will be left for 
croquettes on Wednesday. Put rice on to steam, and while 
it is cooking, stew the cherries and set them aside to cool. 
As soon as the rice is done set it in a cool place. There 
will be enough of it for the griddle cakes on Wednesday as 
well as for the dessert. 

Three-quarters of an hour before meal time prepare the 
vegetables and add them to the meat. Set the table, make 
the fruit drink for the children by adding a little of the 
cherry juice and 2 cups water to the rhubarb juice left from 
Monday. Ice the tea for the adults. Finish preparing the 
dessert. Serve meat on platter with vegetables around it. 

Wednesday BREAKFAST 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

FRIED BACON STRIPS 

BANANAS 

COFFEE MILK 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

^ cup boiled rice 2 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

134 cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons sugar 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add rice to the liquid ingre- 
dients. An Ggg may be added. Combine with the dry and 
beat well. Cook by tablespoonfuls the same as other griddle 
cakes. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the griddle cakes and start the first griddle full 
cooking. Make the coffee, slice and fry the bacon, and 
set the table, attending to the cooking of the cakes at the 
same time. And when they are finished serve the breakfast. 

Extra Baking 
Before starting to cook the noon meal mix the bread 
and set it to rise. It will be ready for the second kneading 
soon after lunch, and can be baked before time for the 
evening meal. Make cinnamon rolls as well as bread. If 
coal or wood fire is used, plan to keep the top of the stove 
full while fire is going. Leave no empty space in the oven 
while it is hot. 



Wednesday 



SUMMER MEALS 91 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 



SPLIT PEA LOAF 

SLICED TOMATOES 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA — MILK 

Split Pea Loaf 

4 cups split peas, cooked i beaten Qgg 

2 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon minced onion 

I tablespoon minced parsley, celery, or other flavoring as 
desired. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix all the ingredients together. If too soft to hold its 
shape add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water 
or another Qgg. Form into loaf, lay over it thin slices of salt 
pork or bacon. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Use split peas cooked on Tuesday. A half hour before 
meal time make loaf and put in oven to brown. Slice the 
tomatoes. Set the table and make the tea. 

--- , , DINNER 

Wednesday 

BAKED CROQUETTES BAKED POTATOES 

HOT CINNAMON ROLLS 

BANANAS WITH LEMON JUICE 

LEMONADE 

Baked Croquettes 

3 cups chopped meat i teaspoon onion juice 
3 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon salt 

2 cups thick white sauce Pepper to taste 

Make a white sauce by stirring ^ cup flour into ^ cup 
melted fat, cook till frothy, then add slowly 2 cups milk or 
water, or the two mixed, stirring all the time, and cook 
again till thick, stirring till smooth. 

Add cooked meat — beef, mutton, veal or pork — and bread 
crumbs. Mix well, form into croquettes about 3 inches 
long, lay them in greased pan, and set in hot oven to brown. 

Bananas with Lemon Juice 

Slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with brown sugar and lemon 
juice. 



92 



LOW COST COOKING 



Preparing the Meal 

Put six potatoes for dinner and four for tomorrow's lunch 
in oven one hour before meal time, while bread is still 
baking. Croquettes and cinnamon rolls (see page i6) may- 
be baked together about ^ hour before meal time. Set the 
table, prepare the bananas and lemonade. 

Thursday BREAKFAST 

FARINA MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

CINNAMON ROLLS (BAKING POWDER) 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Farina Mush 
Use ^i. cup of farina to 4 cups boiling salted water. Make 
the same as other cereal mush. Cook ^ to i hour. 

Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2 cups flour Ya cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder J4 cup oleo 

^ teaspoon salt H cup sugar ^ 

2 tablespoons fat 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work the fat in with the tips of the fingers, add the milk 
or water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet 
Yz inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing bowl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into >^ inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put on water to boil for cereal and coffee; while the 
farina is cooking make and bake the cinnamon rolls, make 
the coffee and set the table. 

Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAMED POTATOES AND BEETS 

LETTUCE WITH FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

BUTTERMILK 

Creamed Potatoes and Beets 
Use 2 cups boiled potatoes, 2 cups boiled beets and 2 cups 



SUMMER MEALS 93 

thin white sauce. Cut the potatoes and beets in J^-inch 
cubes. Reheat in white sauce made separately; or, add 2 
tablespoons flour mixed with ^ cup cold water and 1^/2 cups 
milk to the vegetables and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

French Salad Dressing 

Mix three parts olive, peanut or salad oil with one part 
lemon juice or vinegar; add pepper and salt to taste. 

Preparing the Meal 

Several hours before meal time wash carefully 2 bunches 
of lettuce and lay it on ice or in a cool place so that it may 
be crisp when time to serve. Wash 6 beets and start them 
to cook at breakfast time. When cooked tender remove 
from fire. One-half hour before meal time, peel part of the 
beets, leaving the rest for Friday's salad. Skin the cold 
baked potatoes cooked Wednesday and cut both in ^-inch 
cubes. Make the white sauce, add the vegetables and reheat. 
Set the table and mix the salad dressing. 

Thursday DINNER 

FRIED calves' HEARTS WITH BROWN GRAVY 

MASHED POTATOES 

LETTUCE AND GREEN ONION SALAD 

COFFEE MILK 

Fried Calves Hearts 

i^ pound hearts, sliced lengthwise, in ^-inch slices. Soak 
in cold salt water for 13/^ hours, roll in flour or bread crumbs 
and brown both sides in hot suet fat, cover pan and cook 
on very slow fire until tender. Use beef heart the same way. 

Brown Gravy 

3 tablespoons drippings 2 cups water, or water and 

3 tablespoons flour milk mixed 

Add flour to hot drippings and let it brown. Add liquid 
gradually, stirring constantly until a smooth mixture is 
obtained, and boil 3 minutes. 

Lettuce and Green Onion Salad 
Wash and trim the tops of the onions. Serve them on 
lettuce leaves with French dressing. 



94 LOW COST COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

One and one-half hours before meal time put the calves' 
hearts to soak. Prepare the potatoes and put them on to 
cook Yz hour before meal time. Brown the hearts and while 
they are cooking make the coffee, set the table, dress the 
salad and mash the potatoes. 
Friday BREAKFAST 

CRACKED WHEAT 

CODDLED EGGS TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Coddled Eggs 
Put 6 eggs in stewpan with enough cold water to cover. 
Cook on low fire until boiling point is reached. 

Preparing the Meal 

Cracked wheat should be started to cook the night before. 
Set on to reheat, make the coffee, put on the eggs. While 
they are cooking, make the cocoa, making six extra cups 
to serve cold at dinner. Set the table, make the toast. 

Friday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAM OF NAVY BEAN SOUP 
LETTUCE WITH CHEESE AND FRENCH DRESSING 

Cream of Navy Bean Soup 

2 cups cooked navy beans 3 tablespoons drippings 
iH cups milk 3 tablespoons flour 

lYz cups water i tablespoon minced onion 

Minced celery, etc., as desired for flavoring 
Stir the flour, onion and other flavorings in hot drippings 
until they are browned. Add water and boil. Mash the 
beans fine or put through a sieve or colander. Add salt 
and pepper to taste. When hot it is ready to serve. 

Lettuce with Cheese and French Dressing 
Mix the French dressing, add 3 tablespoons grated cheese. 
Stir and add to the lettuce. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2>^ cups beans over night for soup and for Satur- 
day's lunch. Start them to cook about 2 hours before 
meal time. Wash and drain the lettuce and leave in ice 



SUMMER MEALS 95 

box to get crisp. If there is no ice box, put the lettuce in a 
tin pail with a tight cover in a cool place or under running 
water. One-half hour before meal time set the table, make 
the soup and dress the salad. 

„ . , DINNER 

Friday 

SALT CODFISH HASH 

BEET SALAD 

CUP CAKES COLD COCOA 

Salted Codfish Hash 

iy2 cups salt codfish 3 cups potatoes 

Wash and pare the potatoes and cut them in uniform 
size. Pick salt cod in small pieces and drop the potatoes 
and fish into boiling water. Boil until the potatoes are soft. 
Drain, mash thoroughly and put into a hot greased frying 
pan until well browned on under side. Serve with one-half 
folded on top of the other like an omelet. 

Beet Salad 
Cut boiled beets in ^-inch cubes. Mix with boiled salad 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole tgg 
Yi cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon pepper 

Yi teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with part of milk, add re- 
maining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back of 
stove, add tgg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the tgg. 
When cool, add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix 
thoroughly. 

Quick Cup Cakes 

Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
13^ cups of flour, ^ cup of fine granulated sugar, 2 level 
teaspoons of baking powder, y^ teaspoon of salt. Sift in 
the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt ^ cup oleo or crisco or lard, 
break in i or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add ^ 
teaspoon flavoring extract or % teaspoon of spice. Mix 



96 LOW COST COOKING 

with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For Chocolate Cake add 2 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash enough beets for salad and for lunch on Saturday. 
Cut off the tops and save them to cook for greens. Cook 
the beets immediately after breakfast, so they will be cold 
when needed. Prepare the codfish and potatoes and put 
them on to cook % hour before meal time. Make the cakes 
and while they are baking set the table, make the salad, 
brown the codfish hash. Use cocoa left from breakfast. 

« , , BREAKFAST 

Saturday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 
CREAM TOAST — COFFEE 

Cream Toast 

6 slices toast 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups milk I egg 

2 tablespoons flour ^ cup water 

Mix the sugar and flour in stewpan, add water and stir 
until smooth. Add i cup milk and boil until thick. Add 
remaining milk, heat to boiling point and remove from fire. 
Add a beaten Qgg to the hot sauce, stirring it well through 
the mixture. Pour over hot toast and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat graham mush which was started to cook the night 
before. Make the toast, start the coffee and make the sauce 
for toast. Set the table and finish the toast and coffee. 

Extra Baking 

Mix the bread about the same time as on Wednesday, 
planning to have it baked about the time the evening meal 
is served. 

Make plain rolls for this meal and sugar rolls for Sunday 
breakfast. Mix the spice cake for Sunday ^ hour before 
the bread is ready to bake, and bake it first, as it requires 
a cooler oven than the bread. Cook the plums for Sunday 
lunch while bread is baking. 



Saturday 



SUMMER MEALS 97 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 



PUREE OF BEANS AND TOMATOES 
RHUBARB MARMALADE 



Boiled Beans and Tomatoes 

3 cups cooked navy beans 2 tablespoons drippings ^ 

I cup canned tomatoes i tablespoon minced onion 

I tablespoon minced parsley or celery if desired 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Add tomatoes to beans and boil Yi hour. Cook onions 
and other seasonings in the drippings, add to the beans. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

3^ pounds rhubarb 3 pounds (6 cups) sugar 

2 lemons 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into ^-inch pieces. With a sharp knife pare 
off, very thin, the colored part of the lemon and orange 
peel. Then cut this into small pieces and add to the 
rhubarb. Remove remaining peel of the oranges and lemons, 
divide into sections ; add this to mixture and cook, boiling 
Yz hour; add sugar and boil very slowly i>2 hours longer. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make rhubarb marmalade after breakfast is over and 
put away in sealed jars the part not to be used at once. 
One-half hour before meal time start the beans and toma- 
toes and while they are cooking set the table, prepare the 
seasoning and add it to the beans. 

DINNER 
Saturday 

LAMB STEW — BOILED RICE 
BEET GREENS 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

iJ/2 pounds lamb or mutton 2 cups carrots 

Use lamb or mutton from shoulder, cut into small pieces. 
Cover with cold water and cook slowly without boiling for 
4 to 6 hours. Three-quarters of an hour before meal time 
add carrots, pared and cut into ^-inch pieces. When done 
thicken the gravy with 2 tablespoons flour. Serve on large 
platter with a border of boiled or steamed rice. 



98 LOW COST COOKING 

Beet Greens 

Wash greens carefully. Cook i hour or more, until 
tender, in boiling salted water. Season with pepper and 
drippings. 

Preparing the Meal 

Three hours before meal time put the lamb on to stew, 
using 3 pounds of the meat, so that enough may be left 
over for Turkish Pilaf on Sunday. Put greens on. Wash 
and pare carrots and cut in long, narrow strips. One-half 
hour before meal time add them to the stew. Wash 13^ 
cups of rice and put on to boil. This will make enough for 
Sunday also. Make the coffee and set the table. 

Set aside the meat for Sunday, and thicken the gravy. 
Evaporate the water from the rice and season the greens 
and serve. 



Sunday 



BREAKFAST 

FRIED BACON WITH EGG 

TOAST FRESH PEACHES 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Bacon with Egg 

Fry the bacon. Break eggs and drop them whole into the 
hot fat. Cook on low fire without turning. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the coffee and toast, put milk on to heat. Set the 
table. Wash the peaches and serve them whole in a fruit 
dish. Fry the bacon, remove from the pan, and cook the 
eggs. Make cinnamon tea. 

DINNER 
Sunday 

TURKISH PILAF 

HASHED SPINACH WITH EGG 

RHUBARB TAPIOCA 



SUMMER MEALS 



Turkish Pilaf 



99 



3 cups rice 2 cups meat, chopped and 
ij^ cups of tomatoes cooked 

lYz cups water 

Mix rice with tomatoes and water, place alternate layer 
of the mixture and of chopped meat in baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs, bake until brown in moderate oven. 

Hashed Spinach with Hard Cooked Egg 

J^ peck spinach 2 eggs 

Wash spinach very carefully. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender, about 30 minutes. Lift the spinach out of 
the water. Chop fine and season with 3 tablespoons drip- 
pings. Serve in vegetable dish with a border of hard cooked 
eggs cut into quarter sections. 

Save the water in which the spinach was cooked for soup, 
as it contains valuable salts. 

Rhubarb Tapioca 

4 cups rhubarb ^ cup tapioca 

2 cups sugar 

Soak the tapioca over night in cold water to cover. Drain, 
add boiling water, and cook until transparent. Add sugar, 
and rhubarb, peeled and cut into half-inch pieces, and bake 
until rhubarb is tender. Serve hot or cold with milk. 

Apple Tapioca is made in the same way. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak the tapioca over night and prepare this dish imme- 
diately after breakfast and set it aside to get cold. An 
hour before meal time, cook the eggs for the spinach, follow- 
ing the directions for hard cooked eggs. Prepare the lamb 
stew left from Saturday by picking the meat from the bones 
and chopping it. Make the Pilaf, using this with rice 
cooked on Saturday, and put in the oven 40 minutes before 
meal time. Wash the spinach and while it is cooking make 
the coffee and set the table. Season the spinach, take it 
up, and arrange the eggs. Serve the Pilaf in dish in which 
it was baked. Leave the dessert in the ice box until the 
first part of the dinner is eaten. 



100 LOW COST COOKING 

SUPPER 
Sunday 

ENGLISH MONKEY 
SPICE CAKE — STEWED CHERRIES 

English Monkey 

4 cups bread crumbs Ya cup cheese 

2 cups milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the bread crumbs and milk. If the crumbs are not 
well moistened, add water. When hot, add cheese cut in 
small pieces, remove from fire and stir until cheese is melted. 
May be served on toast. 

Spice Cake 

I cup dark brown sugar i teaspoon ground cinnamon 

I cup cold water Y^ teaspoon ground cloves 

1Y2 cups seeded raisins Ya nutmeg 

Yi cup drippings or crisco Y2 teaspoon salt 

Boil the above ingredients together three minutes, then 
cool. When cold stir in one teaspoon of soda dissolved in a 
little warm water. Add 2 cups of flour, sifted with y^ 
teaspoon of baking powder. Bake as a loaf in a slow oven 
w4th the ''Extra Baking" on Saturday. Nuts are a pleasing 
addition. 

Preparing the Meal 

Twenty minutes before serving, start English Monkey 
and while it is heating set the table. Add the cheese to the 
hot mixture and serve. 



MENUS 



lOI 



e^ DiOO 
02 fr-' fc«! 






H 
iJ o ^ 

-<j <3 a 

cc n H 



5 -^ ^ 



CO 

— ' 03 






a o 



O -fl 

., »3 O 

< O M 

a H 

H< 
O 

o 



tu3;,a a 
H 5^ 



o 



ag 

M S 

§ I 

d 8 



O 

a 

wi 



K Q 



CO Ol W 

^ a ^ 
H o Q 

23 



o a 

1^ H 



n 

« Q 

a a 

o '-' 






■< 

fc 03 
> P 



S^ 



hO 



a « 






Q a 

a^; 

B o 

r w 

IS 
>5 

o 

« I 



§ 3 

Who 






o 

a Q — S 
ca <i M " 

|g8 



:ro 



So 

a 

WW 

H a 



re S 

•o o 



o 
o 









g 






02 02 


w 


s 


s 




N 


;?; 










w 


^ 


1^ 




S^ 


5 


s 






jS 


a 


«3 






r^^ 


M 


& 
S 

s 




re 






>. < 




m 


pa 


re J 


5 H 




0) 


O E^ g 


■o < 


^ ■< f^ 




c 


a 




2 «« 




•o 


c=. 


11 


3 »^ 
h H 




1. 


1 



■<*< a 

03 O 

S^ 

Q 
O 



-^ao 

CD «>-' 
g EH 

a S: 

a 2j 
> 2 2 






M 



5^ 



« « res 



^ u t: 



u-S 



a ^ 

bo p. 
a 



^1 
« a 

02 o 









m 
< 
o 

H 

>. « 

re r, 



3 ^ 



o 
"" o 



102 



LOW COST COOKING 



H ^ ^ 



5§ 



III 

w Q 

E-i fb 



1*1 



Hi M 

M M 

WH I; 
^K o 

^^ 

o K 
« 

C2 



5W 



hJ ^ 
»3 



K 



o < 

21 






Q o 



la 



go 

Ho 
Q ^ U 



OO -w 



g Z D 
^ P Q 
H « -a! 



O.lO 



o 

a 



H H „ « 
M J M ca 



lag 



«2 S ip 

< CS H 

tH -5 fa 

> 2 fe 

<: o 



Is 

12; 



o 



« w o 



^ 



o 
O g 

b 

<1 K 



illi 

M g 

G CJ 

f5 a B ,„ 

o M ^ 5^ 

P «^q 

S o 



CO "^ 



O o 



Wag -s 



w oq 



^ 



CO cj 

■o < 

C fa 

o 



g3 



w c5 



CO 

<3 
Q 






^S 



■D H 



00 B 

CO ►J 

"— ' p 

g s 

Q § 

15 hJ 



I- ^ 



— fa 
M fa 



1^ w .^ 

?5 O E^ 

b H c s 

S C H 

^ o^ 

Q is 



O 



t.1 

o fa 

ft. o 






re 12 iJ 

■o 3 ^ 

re S 

0) d 



h-fa 

o o 



«3 1^ 

Q y 

5 H 

O Q 






MENUS 



103 



^ ^ o 

o r" Q 

w ^ w 



fn -1: -■ 

K O Uj 

W ^ 

H 



3 P 






50 






1-3 10 
t^ < 

< :S 
o o 

« H 

H « 
O ^ 



2^5 
S& 1 



C 
Eh 



5?w 






CO W tl 



C3 
t^ >■ 

^« 

sS 

M -* M 

H <! W 
hJ W o 

pas" 

a: O -!l 

Pi ^ 
>-^ OJ 

< o 

K 






o 



eg 

M <! ta 

egg 

< M P 
O H 



O W 

00 



1^ 









«3 

o 

s 

o 



5 i 

a ^ 
■ s 



O CD 

BJ 02; 

<!< Ha 

O c! 

!J Q 






H 

H 

K 
>« a 

C U b 
O <J fa 

5 cs o 

^ ri CJ 






I? § 



o a o 
cs -- fa 

O Q fa <1 

>, <^ < 5^ 

" K Q '' 



H fa a 
- o S 



a o 









= i 

p., ci 



■o K F " 
« " fa 

«- Q O 



H 
« 

►- /5 

§«^ 

J K "^ 

K iJ 
2 O 

< Q 

>% o a 






m 
a cd 



' H 
; ^ 

i-o o 

a, < 

15S 



CO a 



V) 



5 H 

o 

o 



I04 



LOW COST COOKING 



MS 



w 

P5 H 

oH I 
02 ? I 

^ I 

la ! 

« «i! 

2 



en ^ 



5 P^ 






< 

Ph i5^ 

■< Q ^ 
O Z o 

w < o 
W " 



< s < 



M Q 
OH 



g g 2 

o a K 1:: ^ 

■< Zj G '-^ ^ 

w < ^ S 

y o (.; gq 

s i o 



5^ 

gn 
aw 



1=^ 2 ^ 

O H ^ 
B^ W 



Q 
■< 

M a H 

o a M 
o 

Q 



CQ gj 

Mm a 

go- a 

^^^ § 

«<^§ 

K H ^- g 
OQ K fa 






^ a 

< ;?; 
« a « 

O < M 
H J « 

cs O fa 

o p 

H 
H 

>4 



OH 



o5 

PH 
BO 

a H 

►J H 
O 

u 



S P 



S 



fc o 

g " 

< 

as 

■< 
o 
p — 

CCLO 

aSS 
*^ f- a 

<J c- fa 
>. ^<;fa 

o ^« 

■< 
n 



gs 



o 

CO «1 
(N M 

Kj a 

fafa 
^ a 

«s § 

0) "^ 






w^ 


g 


I- 


<1 


^sg 


as 


a 

B 

03 


■Sj 




Si 




a)B 




^^ 





a 

M 

ill 

<5 « "^ 

>>P3 D 






o 



«a 



45a=« 

= ^ S 

£ M o 
u "^ 



B 

ag 
p 



PJ 

CQ fa a 
•a fa 



w 

a 

o 



go 
a 

B 



a § 



Tsa 
c S 

30 



MENUS 



105 



> 

o ^ 



Wi2 



W Q 
P rn 



CO HOS 
<I w ,„ 

og^ 

K O ;^ 
H < W 

W _ H fa 
o g 









Q 73 



55 w 



K ^^; 



H C3 O M 

S S H a 

H f^ -53 <! 



9Eii 



o 



d fe « 






tf <3 S OT C' 

^ K c^ cs « 
5»jgpfa 
>: < H fc4 

Q 



mo 







S 0^ M 

<i "^ 5 

?.^ 

o 



H p 

«§& 

g <; <3 

s g 



S H O 

Soo 

J a 

H < i-J 

o^ 
o 



00 (4 

CO t^ 
H O 

5g 

<: 

CO 

s «, 

fa >-] 

P P 



a 

o 






p 



«Q 

re 2; a 
■o a Ki 

c a &^ 

O fa fa 

o 






s § ^ 



^ 






S 






CO 

4> 

C 

■o 

4> 



a <j 
« o 






O 



§£: : 

Ch o 3 
re 2 a ^ 

r- fa 



-• P 

O H 

K ^ 












JO t^ 

^< Q D 

«aQ 



>.a 



o .. 
a < 



o 



<0S 



io6 



LOW COST COOKING 






Z 2 « 

<!0 O 
Ch H fa 

" i-J 

Sag 
5 ^ &. 

K o o 



H 

O 

Q CO 

§ i§ 

r t> S O 

< ^ ^ 

r5 »» 



Km cj 
c H o 
K O fa 

K < 3 
« Q 



C J5 

< H « 
K H o 

Km 

!!§ 

;r < H 

g O fa 
K Ch fa 

< a " 
c- ^ Q 






fa O 
Q U 
O 



C Q 



< CS 

S o 
fa 

< 
fa 

Q 

fa 
O 



H t^ K J 

c9SQ 
^ is 

K 3 



"© 



Eh lo 



K 9 



«2 






(3 O B 



g> 



g2 



i ' 

SI ; 

2g i 
OeaM 

H EH 

^ 5 

c; < 



CO J g 









)4 

fa OJ ^ 

sis" 

w fa ^ 



is 

si 



o 



o 

C3 

CO a 

■a H 

c y: 

o <; 



a a fad 

K ;^ J " 
2 3 

ago 
H ^ < 

T3a g 

2*H fa 

= < o 
ho o 



V. 

< 



g3 

^ 3 
< *• 

Sod 
« < a 

■O O fa 

« o 
ego 

^ <: 

4) fa 



ii a 

5Sg< 
fa« "" 

O Q tt 

,^< a o 

■OS fa H 

= 2 I: 

jE« O 



o 5 
^ p 

^^ ^ 

-^J o 

K < K 3 

^ 2 
9 P 

IS I 



a o 

_B H 2 

K J iJ 

w e 3 



^ o 

:- Q ■- _ 

a fa 2J 

o 



fa 



fa 



COST FOR ONE MONTH 

The following quantities are estimated as sufficient for 
a family of man, woman and four children over 4 and under 
13 years of age. The same amount of food would be 
enough for a family consisting of a woman and six chil- 
dren under 14. In the latter case, however, the menus 
should be modified to give more milk for the children and 
less meat will be needed. The cost would remain the same. 

The prices quoted are those for the year 19 14 in Chicago. 
Of course these vary greatly in different parts of the city, 
and prices of fruits and vegetables fluctuate from week to 
week and even from day to day. If the particular kinds 
mentioned in the menu cannot be bought at the price named 
some other kind cheaper that day can usually be found 
and used instead. Allowance is made for unavoidable loss 
in cooking and preparing but not for any w^aste of good 
food materials being thrown away. 

WINTER MENUS. 
Cereals and Breadstuffs. 

White flour 49 lbs $140 Rice (broken) 3 lbs 

Rye flour 3 lbs .15 

• 15 
.20 

■ 15 
.06 



Graham flour 3 lbs 

Oatmeal (bulk) 4 lbs 

Cornmeal 6 lbs 

Cracked wheat i lb 



Rice (whole) i lb 

Hominy 2 lbs 

Farina 2 lb 

Barley i lb 



Navy beans 3 lbs 

Kidney beans I lb 

Lima beans 2 lbs 

Lentils 2 lbs 



Legumes. 

Split peas 2 lbs 

Black eyed peas... i lb 



$ .18 
.08 



Vegetables and Fruits. 



Potatoes I bu $ .90 

Sweet potatoes 3 lbs .10 

Turnips 8 lbs .16 

Rutabaga 8 lbs .12 

Cabbage 8 lbs .24 

Beets , 6 lbs .12 

Carrots 10 lbs .20 

Onions I pk .20 

Dates 2 lbs .20 

Figs 2 lbs .20 



Seedless raisins 2 lbs 

Prunes 3 lbs 

Dried apples 5 lbs 

Dried apricots i lb 

Dried peaches 2 lbs 

Bananas 2 doz 

Fresh apples i^^ pks 

Oranges i doz 

Lemons 2 



Canned tomatoes. 



doz 



$ .12 
.07 
.05 
.10 
.08 

$2.53 

$ .12 
.06 

$ .74 



$ .20 
.30 
70 
.20 
.24 
.20 

•45 
.24 

•05 
.60 



107 



io8 



LOW COST COOKING 



Meats, Eggs, 

Milk 70 qts $5.60 

Hamburger steak.. 7 lbs .84 

Beef for stew 4 lbs .40 

Mutton for stew. . . 2 lbs .24 

Fresh pork shoulder 3 lbs .42 

I salt pork shoulder 8 lbs 1.28 

Flank steak 4^^ lbs .63 

Calves' hearts i>2 lbs .18 

Fat salt pork 3 lbs .36 

Bacon strips 8 lbs 1.60 

Round steak i^ lbs .^3 



Fats, Etc. 

Corn beef brisket... 

Codfish 

Salt fish 

Eggs 

Cheese , 

Oleomargarine 

Suet 

Leaf fat 

Beef heart 

Beef for pot roast. 



1 lb 

2 lbs 

3 lbs 

4 doz 
2 lbs 
8 lbs 



lbs 
lbs 
lb 
lbs 



^Miscellaneous. 



Sugar 15 lbs $ .75 

Tapioca i lb .08 

Black olives i lb .12 

Coffee 4 lbs i.oo 

Tea J^ lb .20 

Cocoa K lt> .06 

Total for the Month, $28.89. 



Spices, flavoring, etc. 

Salt 

Yeast 16 cks 

Baking powder 

Salad oil 



SUMMER MENUS. 
Cereals and Breadstuffs. 



White flour 49 lbs 

Graham flour 2 lbs 

Oatmeal (bulk) 3 lbs 

Cornmeal (bulk) . . 4 lbs 



Navy beans 2 lbs 

Lima beans i lb 



$1.40 
.10 

.15 
.10 



Cracked wheat I lb 

Rice (broken) 6 lbs 

Farina 2 lbs 



Legumes. 

$ .12 Kidney beans 2 lbs. 

.08 Split peas 2 lbs 



Vegetables and Fruits. 



Potatoes 3 pks $ .75 

Kohlrabi 4 bch .10 

Carrots 8 bch .20 

Turnips 4 bch .10 

Beets 4 bch .10 

Spinach 2 pks .30 

Kale I pk .10 

Large onions /^ pk .10 

Green onions 4 bch .10 

Radishes 4 bch .10 

Lettuce 12 bch .60 

Green beans i^ qts .12 

Cucumbers .05 

Dried apricots ^ lb .10 



Dried peaches.... i lb 

Prunes 3 lbs 

Rhubarb 10 lbs 

Fresh peaches 4 doz 

Raisins 2 lbs 

Fresh tomatoes.... 
Canned tomatoes. . 2 cans 

Fresh apples i pk 

Dried apples i^ lbs 

Plums I basket 

Berries 4 boxes 

Gooseberries 3 boxes 

Lemons i doz 

Bananas 2 doz 



>.I4 

.30 
.40 

1.28 
.44 

1.76 
.20 
.44 
•IS 
.24 



$17-23 
$ .10 

.10 

.16 

.10 

■ 10 

^•77 



.24 


.10 


$2.15 


$ .16 


.12 


$.48 


$.12 


•30 


.20 


.20 


.20 


.05 


.20 


.25 


.20 


.30 


.30 


.30 


.20 


.20 



$5.84 



COST OF MENUS 



109 



Meats, Eggs, Fats, Etc. 



Milk 70 qts $5.60 

Buttermilk 12 qts .60 

Cottage cheese .10 

American cheese. . .25^ lbs .55 

Lard 4 lbs .44 

Suet 3 lbs .15 

Oleomargarine 8 lbs 1.68 

Bacon strips 8 lbs 1.68 

Chopped meat 6 lbs .72 

Beef for pot roast. 8 lbs .96 

Boneless ham butt.. 2 lbs .40 

Codfish 3 lbs .30 

Beef for stew 6 lbs .^2 



Lamb for stew 3 lbs 

Mutton for stew... 2 lbs 

Calves' hearts 3 lbs 

Round steak i J/^lbs 

Veal for stew 2lbs 

Flank steak i^^lbs 

Tripe i^lbs 

Neck bones 3 lbs 

Brains 

Eggs 8 doz 

Salad oil i qt 



$ .30 
.24 
•36 
•33 
.24 
.21 

.15 
.18 

.15 
1.92 

•35 
$18.33 



Miscellaneous. 



Sugar 18 lbs $.90 

Tapioca i lb .08 

Coffee 4 lbs l.oo 

Tea ^ lb .20 

Cocoa ^ lb .06 



Flavorings, etc 

Salt 

Yeast 16 cakes 

Baking powder 



Total for the Month, $29.50. 



$ .10 
.10 
.16 
.10 

$2.70 



HOME MADE FIRELESS COOKER 

The use of a fireless cooker will save gas, keep the kitchen 
free from steam and heat and give excellent results with 
foods which require long, slow cooking. 

The principle on which it is made is that of keeping in 
the heat. Food is started cooking, then the kettle is tightly 
closed and placed where it will be so shut out from the air 
that the heat is held until the food is cooked. 

Almost every housekeeper has some large box with a 
lid, an old trunk or something of the sort which can be 
used. If not, the grocer can supply a tall cheese box or a 
butter tub for lo cents. 

For a cooking vessel choose one with straight sides or 
sides sloping upwards and a tight lid. A granite pail with 
a tin lid will do and may be bought for 30 cents. A 5-pound 
lard pail can be used. Aluminum or granite stock pots 
made for this purpose with clamped lids can be bought for 
80 cents to $2.00. 

Pack the bottom of the box or tub with an 8-inch layer 
of excelsior, straw, sawdust or crushed newspaper. Set 
the vessel to be used on this and pack the excelsior or paper 
tightly all around to the top of the kettle. When the kettle 
is lifted out a nest will be left into which it can be put again. 
Cut a strip of asbestos paper as wide as the kettle is high 
and long enough to reach around it. Line the nest with 
this. 

For the top make a cushion of thin white cloth filled 
with excelsior or paper. Make the cushion just large 
enough to fill the top of the box or tub and allow the lid to 
fit down closely over it. 

no 



FIRELESS COOKER 



III 



TIME TABLE FOR HOxME-MADE FIRELESS COOKER 



Meats 


Proportion 


Time ON Fire 


Time IN Cooker 


Beef Pot Roast 


2 lbs. 


30 min. simmer 


6hrs. 


Pork and 


2 lbs. 






Sauerkraut 


iqt. 


30 min. simmer 


6to7hrs. 


Stewed Chicken 


I chicken 
water to cover 


30 min. simmer 


8 hrs. or more 


Fresh Vegetables Time on Fire Time in Cooker 


Carrots 


5 min. boil 


3 hrs. or more 


Beets 


5 min. boil 


3J^ hrs. or more 


Turnips 


5 min. boil 


2 hrs: 


Peas 


5 min. boil 


3 hrs. 


Cabbage 


5 min. boil 


ihr. 


String Beans 


5 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Potatoes 


5 min. boil 


i^ hrs. 


Legumes 




Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Navy Beans after soaking 


30 min. boil 


8 hrs. 


Split Peas 


I2hrs. 


30 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Lentils 




30 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Cereals 


Proportions 


Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Rolled Oats 


I cup 






Cream of Wheat 


water 3 cups 


5 min. boil 


2 to 12 hrs. 


Farina 


water 3 cups 


5 min. boil 




Cornmeal 


I cup 
water 5 cups 


5 min. boil 


5 to 12 hrs. 


Hominy Grits 


I cup 


5 min. boil 


10 hrs. or more 


Rice 


water 5 cups 








I cup 


5 min. boil 


ihr. 


Macaroni 


water 4 cups 








I box 


5 min. boil 


i^hr. 


Dried Fruits 




Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Prunes — Apricots 


soak6hrs. 


5 min. boil. 


4 to 6 hrs. 


Raisins — Peaches 


or all night 


5 min. boil 


4 to 6 hrs. 


Apples 









COLD LUNCHES 

If a cold lunch must be eaten by any member of the 
family, it should be very carefully prepared and should 
have as much variety as possible. A cold lunch soon 
becomes exceedingly distasteful if it is always the same. 
The substantial part of the lunch must usually be sand- 
wiches with fresh fruit if possible and sometimes cake or 
cookies, or candy. 

The lunch box or basket may be divided into two or 
four parts by making partitions of strips of pasteboard. 
Each compartment should be lined with white paper fresh 
each day. In this way different kinds of food can be kept 
separate and it will be possible to carry baked beans and 
salads of all kinds in one compartment where they will not 
injure the other foods. 

SANDWICHES 

Slice bread for sandwiches very thin, put in the filling 
and cut them the size and shape desired. It is better to 
have each sandwich small as this makes them more appe- 
tizing. They should be very carefully wrapped in oiled 
paper so they will not dry out. The following are some 
suggestions for making filling for sandwiches. 

1. Sliced Meats. 

Ham, roast or boiled beef, etc., sliced thin. When such meat 
is used for the family dinner, cut off some good slices for the 
next day's lunch. Home-cooked meats cost only about one- 
third as much as the ready-cooked. 

2. Chopped Meats. 

Ham, pork, beef, mutton, etc., chopped fine, with seasoning such 
as mustard, salad dressing, etc. All leftover meats can be used in 
this way and made into tasteful sandwiches. 

3. Bacon, fried crisp. 

Dip one side of the bread to be used in the hot drippings, lay 
the pieces of bacon inside. This is good with cornbread. 
112 



SANDWICHES II3 

4. Lettuce. 

Spread a leaf of lettuce with cooked salad dressing and place 
between slices of buttered bread. Or, use cottage cheese instead 
of salad dressing. 

5. Nut Sandwiches. 

Chopped or ground peanuts or other nuts, moistened with 
salad dressing or melted butter. 

6. Nut and Fruit. 

Use dried figs, raisins or dates, chopped fine and mixed with 
ground nuts. 

7. Cheese. 

Make a layer of grated cheese between slices of buttered 
bread. It may be moistened with syrup. 

8. Egg. 

Hard-cooked egg chopped fine, moistened with hot drippings 
or butter, or salad dressing; sweet green pepper chopped fine 
may be added; or fried egg placed between pieces of bread. 

9. Baked Beans. 

Mash the beans fine, add a little mustard and vinegar, or any 
other seasoning desired, and place between buttered bread. 

10. Sweet Sandwiches. 

Mash the pulp of stewed fruit, dates, figs, prunes, etc., and 
spread between buttered bread. A thick marmalade may be used 
for this. 

WHEN THE MOTHER WORKS OUTSIDE THE 

HOME 

Many of the menus given require more of the house- 
keepers' attention and time than she can give if in addition 
to her own home keeping she must do outside work for the 
support of her family. 

If the fire is to be kept going all day during her absence, 
stews, meat soups, kettles of legumes with meat, or of 
cereal, and other dishes requiring long cooking, can be 
cooked on the top of the stove ; or baked beans, peas, or len- 
tils be left in the oven to be ready for the evening meal. 
If the fire is not to be kept, a fireless cooker should be used 
for such dishes as these. They can be put into the cooker 
before the mother goes out to work and will cook while she 
is away. The children can be instructed to put potatoes for 
baking in the oven an hour before meal time, so that a good 
meal will be almost ready when the mother returns. 



114 LOW COST COOKING 

If the children are to eat a lunch prepared by themselves, 
it will be wise to make milk an important part of the meal. 
Bread with either hot or cold milk and fruit or jam makes 
a good lunch, or a creamed soup or creamed vegetable 
which the children can re-heat for themselves in the Winter, 
or eat cold in the Summer. 

The following may help some little housekeeper who 
wants to have the house in order when her mother returns 
tired out from the day's work. 

Program for Work When Mother Is Away From Home 
Each child old enough to work must help as the house- 
work is too much for one child under 14 years of age. The 
older one may plan and have the others work under her 
direction. 

6 :30 A. M. — Rise. On rising, open the beds and leave the 
bed clothing neatly spread out to air with the windows all 
open. Have each child do this for his own bed. 

Wash hands and face and dress fully before starting to 
cook breakfast. Set the breakfast table neatly and all sit 
down to eat together. Insist that each child be washed and 
dressed before coming to the breakfast table. 

After breakfast wash dishes at once, one child washing, 
another wiping and putting away^ Clean the sink, put every- 
thing in place, and sweep the kitchen. This much should be 
finished by 10 a. m. at latest. During the part of the year 
when the children are going to school they should plan to 
do this much before dressing for school. The beds may be 
left to air all day and made when school is over. 

ID A. M. — Make the beds, two children working at each 
bed at the same time; set bed rooms and sitting room in 
order; brush up floors if necessary, and dust. This should 
be finished by 11 a. m. at latest, so that there will be time 
for rest or play before getting lunch. 

After lunch is over wash these dishes at once so that the 
house will be in order again for the afternoon and there 
will be time to rest and play before time to start things 
cooking for the supper. 



DISH WASHING 

When children hate dish washing it is because they do 
not think about what an important and fine thing it is to 
take articles unfit for use and make them fit. A dirty dish 
is fit for nothing. To take this and make it beautifully 
clean and free from germs ready to be used for food is in- 
teresting work and is pleasant when properly done. 

Plenty of hot water with soap or soda is necessary. Al- 
ways fill the kettle after taking water from it. There must 
also be clean dry towels for wiping the dishes. Sugar sacks, 
which the grocer sells 3 for 10 cents make excellent ones. 
They should always be washed out immediately after using 
as they are hard to wash after drying. They must be boiled 
every few days to keep them from having unclean odors. 

Piling and Soaking 

Scrape all bits of food from dishes on to one plate and 
empty this in the garbage pail which should be lined with 
newspaper. Pile dishes of the same kind together and put 
to soak those that would otherwise be hard to wash. Rinse 
milk glasses with cold water and soak dishes containing egg 
or dough in cold water, others in hot water. Fill cooking 
dishes which have had food burned in them with water in 
which washing soda has been dissolved, boil until they can 
be easily washed. 

Washing 

Wash the cleanest articles first, glass, silver and cups, in 
pan of hot water with soap or soda. Rinse in another pan 
containing clear hot water or pile on a rack and pour over 
them enough hot water to remove the dirty soapy water. 
Dry and arrange neatly on pantry shelves. 

IIS 



Il6 LOW COST COOKING 

MAKING THE BEDS 

Turn the mattress over, spread on the lower sheet, stretch- 
ing very tight and tucking it under the mattress. The broad 
hem of the sheet belongs at the top, the narrow one at the 
bottom. Spread on the upper sheet and the blankets or com- 
forters leaving the sheet 8 or 9 inches longer at the top 
than the covers so that it may be turned back over them to 
protect them from getting dirty. Tuck all under the mat- 
tress with square corners, pulling down tight without crease ; 
put the spread on evenly and lay the pillows on squarely. 

SWEEPING AND DUSTING 

Before sweeping, see that no uncovered food is in the 
room or anything that dust will injure. Open doors and 
windows. Sweep out the corners well and sweep towards 
the center of the room, or open door using short strokes 
and holding the broom close to the floor so that the dust 
will fly about as little as possible. In winter snow may be 
scattered over dusty carpet to keep dust down. Damp saw- 
dust and coarse salt are also good for this purpose. A soft 
cloth makes the best duster. Do not forget to wipe the dust 
off the rungs of the chairs, table legs and other parts of 
furniture partly hidden. Shake the duster out of window 
after using, and wash it often. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 

Many foods good for adults are very harmful to the 
weaker digestive system of a child. A child's stomach can 
no more do the work of a man than his hands can do a 
man's work. Since the menus given are planned for a 
family including children, most of the dishes given may be 
eaten by children over four years of age. The food for a 
child under four requires more special attention and must 
be specially prepared. 

Things a Child Under Four Must Not Eat 

1. Heavy meats, such as ham, sausage, pork, dried beef, 
corned beef, liver, etc. Give a little scraped beef or 
mutton, meat broth, or minced chicken. If milk and 
eggs are freely given it is not necessary to give meat at 
all. 

2. Strong acid fruits, such as lemon and tomato, or pickles. 

3. Pie and pastry of all kinds, and nuts. 

4. Freshly baked bread, hot rolls, rich cake. 

5. Fried vegetables of all kinds. 

6. Raw vegetables, such as onions, radishes, cucumbers. 

7. Green corn and dried beans, unless these are put through 
a sieve or colander. 

8. Raw bananas and preserved fruits. Stale or very ripe 
fruits. Fruits with hard seeds. 

9. Most important of all — stimulants, such as beer or any 
alcoholic beverages; tea and coffee. Of these tea and 
coffee are the ones most likely to be given to children. 

These are some of the reasons why stimulants should not 
be given children : 

(a) If a child is given stimulants he feels satisfied with- 
out food, or with a smaller amount than is needed, 
and the result is that his growth is stunted. 
(b) Coffee and tea having a pleasant flavor spoil the 
taste of the child for cereals, vegetables, milk and 
other wholesome foods which have little flavor. 
117 



Il8 LOW COST COOKING 

Therefore, it becomes more difficult for the mother 
to teach the child to eat the things necessary for 
his proper growth and development. 

(c) Cofifee and tea in excess affect the kidneys and may 
be responsible for much of the kidney disease now 
so common among children. 

(d) Coffee and tea in excess weaken the nervous sys- 
tem and injure the heart. 

Regular Habits 

Not only must a child be taught what to eat but he must 
be carefully trained as to eating times. A child needs food 
oftener than a grown-up person, but should have regular 
meals and be given nothing between. 

A child under four years needs at least four meals and 
if five meals suit the mother's arrangements better, this 
number will not be harmful. His sleeping hours should 
be arranged to come between meals, and should be kept just 
as strictly as meal time. 

School children need a light lunch after school. It should 
be something that will not tempt them to eat much, so as to 
spoil their appetite for supper. Bread or cold toast or 
fruit or milk is suitable. 

Never give candy or sweets between meals, but always at 
the end as a dessert. 

Food for a Child Under One Year 

If a child must be artificially fed or when the time comes, 
at 6 to 9 months, when it needs other food in addition to or 
in place of its mother's milk, the advice of a physician who 
is a specialist in the feeding of children should if possible 
be obtained. Bad feeding at this time is exceedingly dan- 
gerous, as the large number of deaths among small children 
show. 

A healthy, well grown child of one year can be given 
clean, fresh milk, whole or mixed with water, strained 
orange juice or prune juice ; several kinds of cereal after 
they are strained, and a few vegetables such as spinach, 
carrot, asparagus, and cooked celery which have been 
mashed through a strainer. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 



119 



When a child first begins to have meat it should be given 
scraped beef or mutton. To prepare use a piece of lean 
meat cut like steak across the grain of the meat. In scrap- 
ing, the substance of the meat can be gotten out, leaving 
behind the tough fibers. Form into pats and broil. 

The following sample diet shows the amount and kind of 
food necessary for young children. 

Menu for Child i>4 Years — Weight About 26 Pounds 

7:00 A. M. 2 tablespoons farina (measured raw) 
}i cup milk 

2 tablespoons orange juice 
10:00 A. M. I cup junket or milk 

12 -.30 P. M. I small baked potato 

I slice bread and butter 
I slice bacon 
^ cup milk 
2 130 P. M, I egg yolk on toast crumbs 
I slice bread 
}i cup spinach pressed through strainer 
5:30 P. M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
^ cup milk 

3 prunes 

The farina and oatmeal must be cooked for at least 2 
hours and the oatmeal should be strained. Prunes and 
spinach should be put through strainer. Prunes may be 
given mixed with the oatmeal. 

Junket makes the milk easier to digest. Directions for 
making on page 58. 

Cook the egg soft and use the soft yolk, hot, on the 
freshly toasted bread crumbs. 

Carrot, lettuce and celery, cooked soft and mashed through 
a strainer, may be used instead of spinach. 

Bacon must be cut thin and fried crisp. The fat from 
the bacon may be eaten with the bread instead of butter. 



I20 LOW COST COOKING 

Menu for Child 2>4 Years — Weight About 30 Pounds 

7 :oo A. M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
Yi cup top milk 









2 large prunes 










1 cup milk 




10 


:oo 


A.M. 


^ cup milk 
I slice toast 










Yx cup carrot pressed through strainer 








I slice bacon 




2 


:oo 


P.M. 


I cup milk 

I small baked potato 

I small baked apple 
I teaspoon sugar 




6 


:oo 


P.M. 


Milk toast 
(2 slices toast, >^ cup milk) 
iVz tablespoons hominy with milk 


(dry) 



The same amount can be arranged in 3 or 5 meals. Some 
physicians are now advising only three meals for children 
even as young as 18 months. Green beans and peas, spinach, 
onion, lettuce and celery cooked soft and mashed fine 
or put through strainer, may be used instead of carrots. 

Orange juice, ripe mashed peaches, apple sauce and the 
juice of almost all fruits not too sour may be used as well 
as those named. 

Importance of Breakfast for School Children 
No meal is so important to school children as breakfast. 
It is easy for the child to form the habit of running away 
to school without eating at all or with only a cup of coffee. 
This leaves the child all morning with no food to furnish 
the body with material for growth, and will surely have the 
effect of stunting his growth. A cup of coffee is worse 
than no breakfast at all, because the coffee stimulates the 
body and makes it wear out faster. Coffee with a sweet 
roll or cake is almost as bad, as the roll or cake contains 
only a small part of the nourishment the child needs. A 
breakfast of cereal and milk does not cost as much as coffee 
and rolls and gives good material to grow on. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 121 

It is the aim of every intelligent mother to learn how to 
save her children from needless illness. Many mothers 
would like a reliable test by which they may know whether 
their children are perfectly well and developing properly. 
A pamphlet lately published by the National Children's 
Bureau gives these rules : 

Every child should show : 

A steady gain in weight, height and intelligence. 
Good appetite ; clear skin ; bright, wide-open eyes ; con- 
tented expression. 
Very little crying. 
Bowel movements of the normal number, color and 

consistency. 
Quiet, unbroken sleep, with eyes and mouth tightly 
closed. 
It adds that the way to secure these results is by giving 
children proper food at regular times, keeping them clean, 
giving them plenty of sleep at regular hours, fresh air day 
and night, and training them in regular habits of living. 

If a child is not growing and gaining steadily in weight 
there is something wrong and the mother should try to find 
out what it is. The following list will give an idea of the 
weight and height a child of a certain age should have 
attained. 

AVERAGE WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF CHILDREN. 

— Pounds— — Inches- 
Boys Girls Boys Girls 

1 year 20.5 19.8 29.0 287 

2 years 26.5 25.5 32.5 32.5 

3 years 312 300 35.0 35.0 

4 years 35-0 34-0 38.0 38.0 

5 years 41.2 39.8 41.7 41.4 

6 years 45.1 43.8 44.0 43.6 

7 years 49.5 48.0 46.2 45.9 

8 years 54.5 52.9 48.2 48.0 

9 years 60.0 57.5 50.1 49.6 

ID years 66.6 64.1 52.2 51.8 

11 years 72.4 70.3 S40 53.8 

12 years 79-8 81.4 55.8 57.1 

13 years 88.3 91.2 58.2 58.7 

14 years 99.3 100.3 61.0 60.3 

15 years 110.08 108.04 63.0 61.4 

16 years 123.7 113.0 65.6 61.7 



122 



LOW COST COOKING 



GOVERNMENT BULLETINS 

Free. Send to the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

No. 391 Economical Use of Meats in the Home. 

No. 256 Preparation of the Vegetable for the Table. 

No. 203 Canned Fruits, Preserves and Jellies. 

No. 389 Bread and Bread Making. 

No. 565 Corn Meal as Food and Ways of Using It. 

Other Bulletins and Books 

Freehand Cooking on Scientific Principles. 10 cents. American 
School of Home Economics. 

Lessons in Cooking Through Preparation of Meals, Robinson 
and Hammel. $1.50 (cloth edition). American School of Home 
Economics. 

Low Cost Recipes, Jacobs. 75 cents. 

Economical Cooking for Two, Gibbs. 20 cents. 

Housekeeping Notes, Kittredge. 80 cents. 



INDEX 



Accounts, Keeping, 6 

Appetizers, 62 

Apple Baked with Raisins, 85 

Cake, Dutch, 23 

Cobbler, 69 

Jelly, 61 

Sauce, 82, 87 

Tapioca, 99 
Apricots, Dried, 72 

Babies' Food, 118 
Bacon, Fried, 67 
Baked Apple, 85 

Banana, 50, 77 

Beans, 40 

Croquettes, 91 

Fish, 37 

Peas, 40 

Potatoes, 45 

Rhubarb, 53 
Bakery Foods, Cost of, 14 
Baking Powder Biscuits, 24 

Proportions Used, 17 
Balanced Diet, 8 
Banana, Baked, 53, 77 
Bean and Tomato Soup, 52 

Polenta, 73 

Soup, 52 
Beans, Baked, 40 

Boiled with Meat, 71 

Boiled with Tomatoes, 39 

Creamed Kidney, etc., 41 

String, 49 

With Cheese, 39 
Bed Making, 116 
Beef a la Mode, 34 

Soup, 68 

Stew with Vegetables, 32 
Beet Greens, 46, 98 

Salad, 95 
Beets, Boiled, 80 

Buttered, 44 

Pickled, 81 
Beverages, 63 
Biscuits, Baking Powder, 24 

Drop, 24 

Graham, 83 



Boiled Beans with Meat, 71 

Beans with Tomatoes, 39 

Eggs, 38 

Potatoes, 45 

Rice, 30 

Salad Dressing, 48 
Boston Baked Beans, 40 
Brains, 37 

Scrambled with Eggs, 37 
Braised Cutlets, 34 

Heart, 37 

Steak, 77 
Braising, 33 
Bran Bread, 22 
Bread, Bran, 22 

Corn, 26 

Graham, 22 

Rye, 22 

White, 21 

Whole Wheat, 22 
Breakfast Food^s, 27 
Brittle, Nut, 58 
Broiling, 35 
Broth, Scotch, 33 
Brown Betty, 53 

Gravy, 93 

Stew, 33 

Sugar Syrup, 79 
Browned Parsnips, 44 
Buying, Economy in, 11 

In Quantity, 15 

Cabbage, Hashed, 44 

Salad, 85 
Cake, 55 

Spice, 100 
Calves' Heart, Fried, 93 

Stuffed, 37 
Cambric Tea, 63 
Candy, 58 

Canned Goods, Cost of, 13 
Caramel, 55 

Cream Candy, 58 

Junket, 58 

Sauce, 56 

Syrup, 67 
Carrots, Creamed, 70 



123 



124 



LOW COST COOKING 



Catsup, Tomato, 62 
Cereal Drinks, 64 
Cereals, Cooking, 28 

Prices of, 12 
Cheese in Cream Gravy, 42 

With Beans, 39 

Witli Potatoes, 45 
Children, Feeding and Care of, 116 

Menus for Young, 119 

Milk for, 9 

Protein for, 9 

Weight and Height of, 121 
Children's Drinks, 62 

Food, 7, 113 

Work, Program for, 114 
Chocolate Cake, 96 

Cream Pudding, 54 

Sauce, 56 
Chopped Meats, 34 
Cinnamon Rolls, 22 

Rolls, Baking Powder, 25 

Tea, 63, 73 
Cobbler, Dried Apple, 69 
Cocoa, 62 

Shells, 64 
Coddled Eggs, 94 
Codfish Hash, 95 
Coffee, 62, 67 

Cake, 23 
Cold Lunches, 112 
Composition of Foods, Table of, 16 
Cookies, Oatmeal, 57 

Bran, 57 
Corn Beef with Vegetables, 82 
Corn Bread, 26 

Shortened, 26 

Southern, 71 
Corn Meal Griddle Cakes, 66 

Mush, 81 
Corn on Cob, 34 

Pone, 26 
Cost of Month's Menus, 107 
Cottage Pudding, 56 
Cream of Bean Soup, 51 

Lima Bean Soup, 51 

Navy Bean Soup, 94 

Sauce, 42 

Soups, 50 
Cream Toast, 95 
Creamed Carrots, 70 

Kidney Beans, etc., 41 



Lima Beans, 41 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 45 

Rutabaga, 85 

Salt Fish, 42 

Salt Pork, 76 

Vegetables, 44 
Croquettes, Baked, 91 

Meat, 36 
Croutons, 50 
Crust for Cobbler, 69 
Cucumber Pickle, 62 
Cup Cakes, 56 

Desserts and Sweets, 53 

Flavoring for, 55 
Diet, Balanced, 8 
Dishwashing, 115 
Dressing for Fish, 37 

Salad, 48 
Dried Apple Cobbler, 69 

Apricots and Peaches, 72 

Foods, Cost of, 13 

Fruits, 53 
Drinks for Children, 63 
Drinks, Summer, 64 
Dumplings for StewiS, 33 
Dusting, 116 

Eating, Habits of, 118 
Economy in Buying, 11 
Eggs, Coddled, 94 

Cooking of, 38 

Scrambled, 84 

Scrambled with Potatoes, 88 

Scrambled with Tomatoes, 38 
English Monkey, 100 

Farina Mush, 92 

With Date Sauce, 28 
Fats, Economical, 12, 66 
Feeding of Children, 117 
Fig Preserves, 61 
Figs, Stewed, 78 
Fireless Cooker, Home-made, 110 
Fireless Cooking, Time Table for, 

111 
Fish, 37 

Cakes, 95 
Flank Steak, Braised, 77 

Broiled, 35 



INDEX 



125 



Flavor, Cost of, 14 
Flavoring for Desserts, 55 
Food and the Body, 6 

For Babies, 118 

For Children, 117 

For the Child, 7, 113 
Foods, Composition of, 16 

For Building and Repair, 8 

Furnishing Energy, 7 

Furnishing Minerals, 19 
French Salad Dressing, 93 

Toast, 27 
Fried Bacon Strips, 67 

With Eggs, 98 
Fried Calves, Heart, 93 

Corn Meal Mu^h, 29 

Hominy Mush, 78 

Salt Pork, 76 
Frozen Desserts, 59 
Fruit Ice, 59 

Puddings, Steamed, 54 

Toast, 88 



Jam, Date and Prune, 61 
Jellies, 60 
Jungle Stew, 41 
Junket, Caramel, 58 

Kidney Bean Loaf, 41 
Kitchen Utensils, 19 
Kohlrabi, 47 
Hashed, 87 

Lamb Stew, 33 

With Rice, 97 
Legumes, 37 
Lemon Sauce, 56 

Jelly, 58 
Lentil Loaf, 40 

Stew, 47 
Lentils with Rice, 29 
Lettuce and Green Onion Salad, 93 

With Cheese, 94 
Lightning Cake, 56 
Lima Bean Puree, 77 

Bean Succotash, 42 



Ginger Bread, 57, 80 


Lima Beans with Barley, 27 


Graham Biscuits, 83 


Loaf, Lentil, etc., 40 


Bread, 22 


Lunch for School Children, Hi 


Mush, 72 


Luncheon, Cereal Dishes, 29 


Grain Products, 21 


Lunches, Cold, 112 


Greens, Beet, etc., 46 




Griddle Cakes, 25 


Making Beds, 116 


Corn, 25 


Marmalade, Rhubarb, 61 


Rice, 26, 90 


Mashed Potatoes, 45 


Stale Bread, 25 


Measurements in Cooking, 20 




Meat Balls, 34 


Habits of Eating, 118 


Croquettes, 36 


Hamburger Steak, 37 


Loaf, 35, 85 


With Tomatoes, 87 


Pie, 36 


Ham with Peas, 40 


Scalloped, 35, 36 


Hashed Cabbage, etc., 44 


Soup, 68 


Kohlrabi, 87 


Meats, 31 


Potatoes, 45 


Menus, 65 


Spinach, 99 


For Young Children, 119 


Turnips, 44 


Summer, 104 


Heart, Fried, 93 


Winter, 101 


Stuffed, 37 


Milk for Children, 9 


Hominy Baked with Cheese, 82 


Sour, in Cooking, 23 


Mush, Fried, 28, 78 


Minerals, Food Furnishinff, 10 


Hot Breads, 23 


Muffins, Berry, 23 




Bran, 24 


Ice Cream, 59 


Graham, etc., 23 


Indian Pudding, 54 


Oatmeal, 24 



126 



LOW COST COOKING 



Rice, 24 

Rice and Corn Meal, 79 

Rye, 23, 76 

White Flour, 23^ 
Mush, Cereal, 28 
Mutton Stew, 33 

Navy Bean Soup, 52 
Navy Beans with Rice, 29 
Nut Brittle, 58 
Nutmeg Sauce, 56 

Oatmeal, 28 

Cookies, 57 

Mush, 70 

Muffins, 24 

Soup, 29 

With Potatoes, 29 

With Raising, 28 
Oleomargarine, 13, 14 
Onions, Scalloped, 44 

Panbroiled Flank Steak, 35 

Round Steak, 35 
Pantry, The, 19 
Parsnips, Browned, 44 
Peas, Baked, 40 

Green, 47 

With Carrots, 41 

With Ham, 40 
Pickled Beets, 81 
Pickles, 62 
Pie, Meat, 36 
Pilaf, Turkish, 36 
Plain Cake, 55 
Planked Fish, 37 
Poached Eggs, 38 
Polenta, 27 

Bean, 73 
Potato Cakes, 86 

Soup, 52 
Potatoes, Cooking, 44 
Pot Roast, 34 

With Vegetables, 89 
Preserves, 60 
Protein, 8 

For Adults, 19 

For Children, 9 
Prune and Date Jam, 61 
Prune Rolls, 22 



Pudding, Chocolate, 54 

Cottage, 56 

Indian, 53 

Rice, 53 

Steamed Fruit, 54 

Tapioca, 99 
Puree of Lima Beans, 77 

Pea, etc., 51 

Quick Cup Cakes, 56 

Raisins, Stewed, 82 

Rarebit, Rice and Cheese, 87 

Rhubarb and Fig Preserves, 61 

Baked, 53 

Marmalade, 61 

Sauce, 86 

Tapioca, 97 
Rice, Boiled, 30 

Griddle Cakes, 26, 90 

Muffins, 24 

Pudding, 53 

Soup, 79 

Steamed, 89 

With Cheese, 30 

With Fruit, 53 

With Lentils, 29 

With Navy Beans, 29 

With Stewed Fruit, 30 

With Tomatoes, 30, 68 
Riced Potatoes, 87 
Rolls, 22 

Rutabagas, Creamed, 44, 85 
Rye Bread, 22 

Muffins, 23, 76 

Salad, Cabbage, 85 

Dressing, 48 

Dressing, French, 93 
Salads, 48 
Salt Fish Hash, 95 

Pork in Milk Gravy, 76 

Proportion to Use, 7 

Scalloped, 80 
Sandwiches, 112 
Sauce, Chocolate, etc., 56 
Savory Rice, 30 
Scalloped Meat, 30, 36 

Meats, 35 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 44 



INDEX 



127 



Salt Fish, 80 

Tomatoes, 84 
Scotch Broth, 33 
Scrambled Eggs, 38, 84 
Setting the Table, 18 
Sherbet, 59 
Soft Cooked Eggs, 38 
Soup, Beef, 68 

Oatmeal, 29 

Rice, 79 
Soups, 49 
Sour Beets, 81 

Cream Soup, 51 

Milk, in Cooking, 23 
Southern Corn Bread, 71 
Spice Cake, 100 
Spinach, 46 

With Eggs, 99 
Split Pea Loaf, 91 

With Carrots, 41, 88 
Steak, Braised, 77 

Hamburger, 37 

Pan Broiled, 35 
Steamed Fruit Pudding, 54 

Rice, 30, 89 
Stewed Figs, 78 

Raisins, 82 
Stews, 32 

Vegetables, 41 

With Vegetables, 73 
String Beans, 47 
Stuffed Heart, 37 
Succotash, 42 
Suet Pudding, 57 
Summer Drinks, 64 

Menus, 104 

Vegetables, 46 
Supper Cereal Dishes, 29 



Sweeping and Dusting, 116 
Sweet Potatoes, 46 
Syrup, Brown Sugar, 79 
Caramel, 67 

Table Setting, 18 
Tapioca, Apple, etc., 99 
Tea, 63, 68 

Cinnamon, 73 

Toast, 71 
Thickening, Proportions of Flour 

for, 17 
Toast, 26 

Cream, 27, 96 

French, 27 

Milk, 27 

Tea, 64, 71 
Tomato Catsup, 62 

Salad, 48 
Tomatoes Scalloped, 84 
Tripe, 27 
Turkish Pilaf, 36 

Veal Stew, 32 
Vegetable Stew, 41, 73 
Vegetables, Cooking, 43 

Washing Dishes, 115 
Watermelon Rind Pickle, 62 
White Bread, 21 

Sauce, 42, 70 

Sauce, Thick, 85 
Whole Wheat Bread, 22 
Winter Meals, 66 

Menus, 101 

Vegetables, 43 

Yeast Bread, 21 



•^ 



7i^ 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 728 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



tRADCUFFE COUIGI UBRARY( 

WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Traiuferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE UBRARY 

1960 



Satbait CoUege Ittcaij 

RPCniVi;[3 BY REQUFST 
.< SFPrrMBER 20, 1926 •* 



* *^ , 



,,.-<*. 



* .^ -* 



/ 

I 



^ 



^ 



Low Cost Cooking 



PLOKENCE NESBITT, BA. 



A MAinJAL OF COOKING, DIET, HOME MANAaBMBNT 

AND CABE OF CHILDBEN FOB HOUBEKEEPEBS 

WHO MUST CONDUCT THEIB HOMES WITH 

SMALL EXPENDITimE OF MONEY 



CHICAGO 

AMEBICAN SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

1915 






HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST or 

MRS. CHESTER N. GnEEMOl/GH 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 



COPTBIGHT 1915 ' 

BY 

HoMB Economics Assooiation 






CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Business of Home-Making 5 

Food and the Body 7 

A Well-Balanced Diet 9 

Economy in Buying ii 

Tables of Composition and Proportion i6 

Setting the Table i8 

Ceneral Household Directions 19 

General Recipes 21 

Week's Menu for Winter with Di?.ections .... 66 
Week's Menu for Summer with Direct io:;s ... 86 
Additional Three Weeks' Menus for Wintek . .101 

Additional Three Weeks' Menus for Summer ... 104 

Calculation of Cost 107 

Household Helps — 

1. Home- Made Fireless no 

2. Cold Lunches 112 

3. When Mother Works Outside the Home . . .113 

Feeding and Care of Children 117 

Index 223 



LOW COST COOKING 



THE BUSINESS OF HOME-MAKING 

IN MANY ways the business of home-making is the 
most important one in the world. To carry it on suc- 
cessfully requires no less thought, study and work than 
the merchant or mechanic gives to his business. Success 
is well repaid and failure brings wretchedness. The suc- 
cessful home-maker has well-fed, well-kept, well-trained 
children and a husband who, through proper home care, is 
made able to do his work and earn the money needed to 
pay the expenses of the home. The unsuccessful home- 
maker very often has sickly, poorly-developed children 
and a husband whose work is made less productive by the 
poor home conditions ; or, in many cases, one who satisfies 
with strong drink the craving left by lack of proper food. 

With plenty of money the average woman can easily 
furnish her family with comfortable living conditions and 
good food. The smaller the amount of money on which the 
home must be run and food bought the greater is the need 
of the home-maker for wisdom and skill in management. 
This book is compiled especially for the woman who has 
little money to spend, the endeavor being to give, as simply 
as possible, the things she most needs to know in order to 
get the best results from her money. Many women who 
are compelled to manage with the smallest possible amount 
have helped greatly in making the book by giving recipes 
and plans which they have found useful in their attempts 
to economize. 

Economizing on food is a most dangerous thing to try 
unless the housekeeper has an understanding of food values. 

5 



6 LOW COST COOKING 

She must know what foods are necessary for the health 
of her family and in what food materials she gets the most 
for her money, to be able to decide where it is wise and 
safe to cut and where unsafe. 

Every mother should study these things carefully, for she 
has the health and well being of her family in her keeping. 

Keeping Accounts 

No good business man would try to run his business 
without keeping books to show him just where his affairs 
stand, which purchases have been wise and which unwise. 
Keeping accounts is just as desirable in the business of 
housekeeping as in that of shop-keeping. It is much sim- 
pler, of course, and the housekeeper needs only a blank book 
in which she sets down each day the things she has bought, 
and the money she has received. For example : 

July 1st — 2 heads lettuce $ .05 

1 peck apples 20 

10 pounds sugar 50 

2 pounds chopped meat 30 






July 2nd— '2 bunches carrots .$ .05 

I bushel potatoes 30 etc. 

The housekeeper who goes thoughtfully over her own 
accounts at the end of each week or month will learn much 
from them. 

WHAT FOOD MUST DO FOR THE BODY 

We put coal, gas and other fuel into an engine so it can 
have the power to work. In exactly the same way we must 
give food to our bodies, so that our muscles can do the 
work that we wish them to do. But giving this power to 
work or "energy" to the body is not the only use of food. 
The body is itself being constantly worn out, not only by 
the outside work it does but by its inside work; that is, 



FOOD AND THE BODY 7 

by the beating of the heart, workings of the stomach and 
other organs. It takes various kinds of food to repair 
these worn-out parts, and if they are not repaired just as 
fast as they are worn out, weak places are left in the body 
where disease germs may easily grow and it becomes dis- 
eased, perhaps tuberculous ; or, escaping disease, the body 
is worn out and old when it should be still young and strong. 

Food for the Child 

The child, too, needs a great deal of food for energy as 
it is always moving about in play or work, and it also needs 
the food to repair the worn-out parts of its body just as 
the adult does. Besides all this, it needs food to grow on. 
There is no other way for the child to get the stuff to make 
larger bones and muscles except from its food. Give the 
child all the food it needs and it will have a good chance 
to grow a large, strong, healthy body. If it does not get 
all of the different kinds of food it needs and enough of 
them, it cannot possibly be strong and well. Perhaps the 
growth will be stunted, and the child will not become a 
well-grown man or woman ; perhaps it will grow large, but 
will have weak spots in its body where disease germs can 
easily grow, so that it is apt to take any disease to which it 
is exposed, such as scarlet fever, diphtheria or tubercu- 
losis. The city child must be exposed to some of these dis- 
eases, but if its body is strong and clean it will have a good 
chance to escape taking them. For these reasons proper 
food is of even more importance to the child than to the 
,adult. 

Foods Furnishing Energy 

The body can use all kinds of food for energy to work 
on, but the best and cheapest for this purpose are the 
ones that contain starch, sugar and fat. 



8 LOW COST COOKING 

The chief foods which contain starch are: cereals, flour 
and meals of all kinds, legumes (beans, peas and lentils) 
and some vegetables such as potatoes and sweet potatoes. 

Many vegetables and fruits such as carrots, oranges, etc., 
contain sugar, but we get most of our sugar in the pure 
form which has been taken from the juices of sugar cane 
and sugar beet. 

The chief foods which contain fat are the fat parts of 
meat, lard, suet, butter and cream, cheese, cottonseed oil, 
olive oil, and nuts. 

Foods for Building and Repairing the Body 

To repair the worn-out muscles and other tissues of the 
body, a substance called protein is necessary. It is found 
in all foods, but in largest quantities in such foods as meat, 
milk, fish, eggs and cheese. 

To build and repair the bones and to keep the body clean, 
strong and able to resist disease, many different kinds of 
minerals are needed such as lime, iron, sulphur, etc. For 
these we depend chiefly on fruits and vegetables, although 
other foods, especially milk and eggs, contain valuable 
minerals. 

Balanced Diet 

A diet which furnishes all of these things which the body 
needs in the right amount is called a "well-balanced diet." 
It must contain some high protein foods such as meat, milk, 
eggs, cheese and fish, for building and repairing; much 
starch, fat and sugar for energy, and also vegetables and 
fruits to provide the minerals needed. Too much protein 
foods will cause disturbances of the kidneys. Too much 
starch or fat will cause digestive troubles. Too much sugar 
will produce anaemia and cause disturbances of digestion. 

In general, a diet for an adult will be well-balanced if it 
contains meat or fish once a day with a little milk and an 



CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED DIET 9 

egg occasionally; a cereal once; another vegetable besides 
potatoes once, with fruit twice per day, or vegetable twice 
and fruit once. In addition the diet should include as much 
bread and potatoes and some kind of fat as the normal 
appetite demands. This is simple enough when there is 
plenty of money, but when it must be done on a small 
income it becomes a very hard thing to do. 



HOW TO HAVE A CHEAP, WELL-BALANCED 

DIET 

The following classes of food are the ones that give the 
\iody the greatest amount of energy for the money, and 
must be used in large quantities by the housekeeper who 
wishes to feed her family well for a small amount of money. 

Cereals, which include everjrthing made from grains, 
such as flour from which we make bread, macaroni, etc., as 
well as oatmeal, commeal, rice, rye, etc. 

Legumes, which include all kinds of beans and peas, also 
lentils and peanuts. 

Cheaper Forms of Fat, such as suet, lard, oleo, peanut 
oil, cottonseed oil, etc. 

These alone would make a cheap diet, but a very poor 
one. To them must be added foods which furnish more 
protein than these have for building and repairing the body, 
and those that furnish the mineral elements necessary for 
keeping the body in health. 

Protein for Children 

For children milk is the best high protein food. Only 
milk from good dairies should be given children, and this 
as a rule is the same price with all of the dairies in the same 
town. In Chicago it costs 8 cents per quart. When skim 
milk can be bought at 3 cents to 4 cents per quart it enables 



10 LOW COST COOKING 

the housekeeper to economize a little on her milk bill. When 
milk is skimmed the fat is removed, but the protein and 
minerals remain, so that it is still a very valuable food. 

AMOUNT OF MILK DESIRABLE FOR CHILDREN. 

I pint to I quart per day for each child under 2 years. 
I pint to 1 5^ pints per day for each child 2 to 5 years. 
I pint at least per day for each child 5 to 9 yeara 
I pint if possible per day for older children. 

Eggs are the next best protein food for children. When 

they are cheap they should be given in abundance; when 

expensive as many as can be afforded. Meat should be 

given only in very small quantities to young children. 

Protein for Adults 

In order to buy the necessary amount of milk for the 
children, the protein foods for the grown up part of the 
family must be bought very economically. American brick 
cheese can be bought at from 19 cents to 22 cents per 
pound, and cottage cheese at 10 cents per pound, and at 
these prices are cheap protein food. Eggs are fairly cheap 
at certain times in the year, at other times far too expensive 
for general use. They are easily digested and very desir- 
able for children and invalids. 

Meat may be very expensive or quite inexpensive accord- 
ing to the way in which it is bought. There is about the 
same amount of nourishment in the cheaper cuts as in 
more expensive ones. As a rule the cheaper cuts of meat 
require longer cooking to make them tender and palatable, 
so that in some cases the cost of fuel must be reckoned. 
In winter, however, the fire that is used for cooking is also 
needed for heat, and in summer a fireless cooker will save 
almost all of the extra fuel needed for the long cooking. 

Foods Furnishing Mineral 

The body cannot long remain healthy without vegetables 
and fruits. Those who are entirely cut off from these 



ECONOMY IN BUYING n 

foods are apt to be attacked by the horrible disease, scurvy, 
found chiefly in shipwrecks and in besieged cities. This 
condition is rare, but less serious skin diseases, and constipa- 
tion, with its attending train of diseases, are very common 
among those who have not enough of this class of foods. 

This is an expensive part of the diet and can be managed 
at small cost only by watching the market closely and buy- 
ing the articles cheapest at the time. In the winter when 
there are no fruits in season and green vegetables are 
expensive, the dried fruits and winter vegetables, such as 
carrots, rutabagas and onions can be used. 

Fresh fruit should be used at all times when the price 
will permit. 

Milk is also very valuable as a source of the minerals 
needed. The growing child who has sufficient milk rarely 
suffers from rickets as there is enough lime in the amount 
of milk recommended above to provide for properly build- 
ing the bones of the growing child. 

ECONOMY IN BUYING 

These are a few of the things every woman who tries to 
get the greatest value for the money she spends for food 
should always keep in mind: 

Work of Others 

If someone else bakes your bread, cakes or pies, cooks 
your meat, cans your vegetables, makes your jelly and jam, 
pays for advertising these things and then sells them to you, 
you must pay him well for all his work by paying a high 
price for the food he has prepared for you. 

Take for instance a cereal, and we can easily see just how 
much we pay for this work. Commeal sells in bulk for 
2j^ cents per pound. A business firm packs the same sort 
of cornmeal, puts it into a package, names it, advertises 



12 LOW COST COOKING 

it and sells it for 5 cents per pound. Another firm puts com 
through a cooking and rolling process, makes it into com 
flakes, puts it in a package, names it, advertises it and sells 
it for 16 cents per pound. The amount of food in the com 
product remains about the same, but we must pay nearly 
six times as much for the cornflakes as for the commeal, 
in order to pay for the work done on it. The following 
table shows how much we pay for cereals by buying them 
in different ways: 

TABLE OF CEREALS WITH PRICES. 

Commeal (bulk) 2^c per lb. 

Cornmeal (package) 30 oz. for loc, which is.... 5 1/30 a lb. 

Cornflakes, 10 oz. for loc, which is i6c per lb. 

Oatmeal (bulk) 3c to 5c a lb. 

Oatmeal, lo-lb. sack for 39c, which is 3 g/ioc a lb. 

Oatmeal (package) 22 oz. for loc, which is 7c a lb. 

Farina (bulk) 5c a lb. 

Farina (package), 14 oz. for loc, which is iij^c a lb. 

Rice (broken) 3c to Sc a lb. 

Rice (whole) 7c to 12c a lb. 

Rice (puffed) 15 oz. for 15c, which is i6c a lb. 

Economical Forms of Fat 

The most expensive fats in common use are cream, but- 
ter and olive oil. Cheaper forms are meat fats, such as 
suet, lard, salt pork, bacon, tallow and oleomargarine ; veg- 
etable oils, such as cottonseed and peanut oil. The most 
important difference between these different kinds is the 
difference in flavor. The first three are also more easily 
digested than any of the cheaper forms except bacon. 

In families where there are children it is better to buy 
as much milk as possible instead of cream or butter, since 
we get in this way the cream and butter fat, as well as 
all the other valuable food the milk contains. 

Bacon is also a very useful fat where there are small 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 



13 



children, as it is easily digested. A child one year old can 
take crisply fried bacon. It is one of the most expensive 
forms of fat if it is bought from the "best" brands, sliced, 
10 cents worth at a time. It is one of the most inexpensive 
if bought in the form of "bacon brisket," "bacon strips," 
"bacon butts," which are the odd-shaped trimmings from 
the sides of the bacon and are sold by the piece at from 
14 to 22 cents per pound. 

Oleomargarine is a useful and desirable substitute for 
butter. (See page 14.) Some housekeepers make a sub- 
stitute of their own, using freshly rendered leaf lard and 
suet, pleasantly flavored with onion, th}mie and other savory 
herbs. 

The economical housekeeper will do well to buy leaf fat 
at 10 to 12 cents per pound and render it herself into lard. 
Cut it into small pieces and heat carefully in oven or on 
top of stove until the fat is fried out and the scraps are 
crisp but not brown. These crisp bits ("cracklings") may 
be mashed fine and used instead of drippings in making 
shortened com bread. 

Cost of Canned Foods 

A i2-ounce can of baked beans costs 10 cents. The raw 
beans, tomatoes and fat pork which it takes to make an 
equal amount of baked beans, costs about 2}4 cents. 

A i2-ounce can of soup costs 10 cents. Home-made 
soup of similar quality can be made for about 2}^ cents. 

Other canned vegetables and fruits are not quite so 
expensive by comparison, but a careful housekeeper can 
save much by avoiding canned goods, choosing instead the 
vegetables in season which are the cheapest. 

Cost of Dried Foods 

Drying is one of the least expensive ways of preserving 
foods; therefore dried fruits are inexpensive in winter in 



14 LOW COST COOKING 

comparison with fresh fruit or canned fruit, and dried 
meats and fish often less expensive than fresh. Fresh 
apples at 24 cents per peck are equal in expense to dried 
apples at 12 cents per pound, but when apples are 50 cents 
per peck the dried ones cost only one-half as much. It 
takes a peck of fresh apples to make 2 pounds of dried 
apples. Dried sweet corn is cheap and valuable for giving 
variety to the winter diet. 

Cost of Bakery and Other Cooked Foods 

The baker's loaf (12 ounces) of bread costs about twice 
as much as the flour, yeast, etc., that it takes to make a 
loaf of the same weight at home. Rolls, cakes, pies, etc., 
cost more than twice as much as the home-made of the 
same quality. 

Boiled ham and beef cost about four times as much as 
raw, and jellies and preserves are about three times as ex- 
pensive as home-made ones of the same quality. 

This is not coimting the cost of fuel. The large part of 
the year when the cook stove is used also for heat, this need 
not be considered at all. When fire must be especially pro- 
vided for the baking, the saving is, of course less, but the 
careful housewife will use her fuel to the best advantage 
by baking on washing or ironing day and in other ways 
using all of the heat produced. 

Cost of Flavor 

In many foods, the only difference between the expensive 
kinds and the inexpensive ones is the difference in flavor. 
This is the chief difference between butter and oleomar- 
gerine. Oleomargerine is a mixture of the best quality of 
lard and suet churned with cream, which adds some of 
the flavor and a percentage of butter to it. It is made 
under careful United States Government supervision so that 
it must be clean and wholesome. The uncolored oleo gives 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 15 

the best value for the money, as there is a tax of 10 cents 
per pound on the colored. It may be colored at home if 
desired with the coloring matter usually furnished. Nearly 
all butter is colored. One pound of oleo costs about one- 
half as much as good butter and contains only a little less 
food than the pound of butter. 
Differences in price of meats is partly a matter of flavor. 

Foods Out of Season 

When foods out of season are bought, we must pay 
enough for them to cover the cost of keeping them in cold 
storage. For example, the apples sold in the spring have 
been kept for six months or more in cold storage, and this 
makes them very expensive. Always try to find out what 
fruits and vegetables are in season and the cheapest to be 
had at the time, and buy these, waiting for the others until 
the time for their season comes. In winter when all fresh 
fruits are out of season, dried fruits can be used. 

Buying in Quantity 

Buying each day just the amount of things which are to 
be used that day is very wasteful. Better weight is given 
to the customer who buys in large quantities, and usually 
the price is lower. Try buying 10 pounds of sugar and see 
how much longer it lasts than five 2-pound packages. When 
you buy so many small packages you are paying for a large 
amount of paper at the same price you pay for food. If the 
housekeeper gets her money once per month, she will save 
by buying all of the staples, such as sugar, flour, potatoes, 
cured meats, rice, dried beans, peas, lentils, coffee, tea, dried 
fruits, etc., that she will need for the month. If she gets 
her money once per week, she will probably not be able to 
buy in such large quantities, but she can buy enough of 
these things to last the week. 



i6 



LOW COST COOKING 



COMPOSITION OF RAW POODS. 
Parts in lOo (Approximate). 

Cereal Products. 

Wheat flour ....12 water 11 protein 75 starch i fat 

Com meal 12 water 9 protein 75 starch 2 fat 

Oat meal 7 water 16 protein (fj starch 7 fat 

Macaroni 10 water 13 protein 74 starch i fat 

Rice 12 water 8 protein 79 starch H fat 



Legumes. 
Beans and peas.. 13 water 24 protein 60 starch 

High Protein Foods. 

Beef (round)... 65 water 20 protein 

Mutton (leg)... 50 water 15 protein 

Fowl 47 water 14 protein 

Fish (salt) 53 water 25 protein 

Fish (fresh)....£^ water 16 protein 

Eggs (nine).... 74 water 13 protein 

Milk (i pint).. 87 water 3 protein 5 sugar 

Cheese 33 water 26 protein 

Nuts 3 water 20 protein 15 starch 



2 fat 



Fats. 

Salt pork (fat) 8 water 

Bacon (medium fat) 17 water 

Butter II water 

Oleo 10 water 

Lard, oils, crisco, etc 



2 protein 

9 protein 

I protein 

I protein 



13 fat 


15 fat 


15 fat 
% fat 


V2 fat 


10 fat 


4 fat 


33 fat 


55 fat 


86 fat 


62 fat 


85 fat 


83 fat 


100 fat 



Food units 
in I lb. 
1,640 
1,650 
1,860 
i,66s 
1,630 

Food units 
in I lb. 

1.655 

Food units 
in I lb. 
950 
890 

765 
410 

350 

720 

310 
2,000 
3,000 

Food units 

in I lb. 

3,670 

2,795 
3,490 
3,410 
4,220 



Food units 
in I lb. 



Vegetables. 

Lettuce, celery, etc, 94 water, i protein, 3 starch and sugar, 

V2 fat 85 

Carrots, string beans, parsnips, etc., 85 water, i protein, 9 

to 12 starch and sugar, 5^ fat 210 

Turnips, cabbage, kohlrabi, etc., 90 water, i protein, 8 

starch and sugar, ^ fat 185 

Potato, white, 78 water, 2 protein, 18 starch, J4 fat 385 

Potato, sweet, 69 water, 2 protein, 2^ starch and sugar, Yi 

fat 570 



Fresh Fruits. 



Food units 
in I lb. 
Apples, oranges, peaches, etc., 84 water, ^ protein, 14 

sugar and starch 210 

Tomatoes, 95 water, i protein, 4 sugar and starch 105 



TABLES OF COMPOSITION AND PROPORTIONS vj 

Dried Fruits. ^"PAr'** 

m I ID. 

Apples, apricots, etc., 28 water, 3 protein, 64 sugar and 

starch, i^ fat 1,320 

Dates, 15 water, 2 protein, 78 sugar and starch, 3 fat 1,615 

Prunes, raisins, etc., 22 water, 2 protein, 'jz sugar and 

starch, 2 fat 1400 

Sugar, 100 sugar 1^20 

All of the above foods except the sugar, lard and oils contain 
from 5^ to 2 per cent mineral matter, which does not increase their 
food units but are of great value in the diet. Butter and cheese 
have 2 to 3 per cent of common salt added. 

There is also a percentage of refuse in most of food materials 
which is largest in the meats. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

For Thickening 

1 level tablespoon of flour will thicken i cupful of 
liquid for soups. 

2 level tablespoons of flour will thicken i cupful of 
liquid for gravy. 

3 level tablespoons of browned-flour will thicken i 
cupful of liquid for gravy. 

Use one-half as much cornstarch as flour. 

Use two level tablespoons of cornstarch to i cup of 
liquid for pudding. 

Use one egg to one cup of milk for soft custard. 

Use two eggs to one cup of milk for stiff custard. 

Use one tablespoon of granulated gelatin to one pint 
liquid if cooled on ice. 

Rising Agents 

Use two level teaspoons baking powder to one cup 
flour in making muflins, biscuits, griddle cakes and cakes. 
If well-beaten eggs are used in cake leave out one-half 
teaspoon of baking powder for each egg used. 

Use one-half level teaspoon of soda with one cup of 
sour milk. 

Use one teaspoon of soda with one cup of molasses. 

For Doughs and Batters 

Use one-third cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing biscuits. 

Use one-half cup of liquid for each cup of flour in 
making muflins. 

Use two-thirds cup liquid for each cup of flour in mak- 
ing griddle cakes. 

For Salting 

Use one teaspoonful of salt for one quart of liquid. 
Use Yi teaspoonful of salt for one cup of flour for 
bread, etc. 



l8 LOW COST COOKING 

SETTING THE TABLE 

If a tablecloth is used, spread it evenly on the table so 
that the edges hang down the same length at each side and 
end. It is often much better, particularly where there are 
young children, to use doilies instead of a tablecloth in 
order to save washing. The doilies may be made 12 to 18 
inches square of white or colored linen, Japanese toweling, 
or of any kind of white cloth. The coarse muslin of flour 
sacks bleached white and neatly hemmed or hemstitched 
makes very nice ones. If doilies are used, place one in the 
center of the table, one under the meat dish, and one under 
each plate. If this makes too much washing, one in the 
center only may be used, leaving the rest of the table bare. 

Place the plates an even distance apart, right side up 
and one inch from the edge of the table. 

Place knife at right, sharp edge toward the plate, fork 
at left, tines up, spoon beside knife, bowl up. The napkin 
lies neatly folded or in a ring beside the fork. Place tiun- 
bler for water at right. 

Be sure that bread and butter, water, salt, pepper, sugar 
and other things needed for the meal are on the table. 
Serve hot things on hot plates and dishes and cold things as 
cold as possible. Luke warm food is nearly always distaste- 
ful. One way to heat plates is to leave them for a short 
time in hot water; another way is to put them in warm 
oven but they may crack and discolor if set in a hot oven. 

Every child should be taught while still young that be- 
fore coming to the table his hair and clothing must be 
neat and his face and hands freshly washed. Much ill 
health is caused by children being allowed to eat with dirty, 
germ-covered hands. 



GENERAL HOUSEHOLD DIRECTIONS 

The Kitchen 

The kitchen is the heart of the home and the whole fam- 
ily rejoices in its wholesome cleanliness. Dirt may be 
tolerated better in any other part of the house than in 
the kitchen, which is the workshop for preparing food. No 
room is more attractive than a kitchen which is shiningly 
clean and contains only the things necessary for the work 
done there, and these arranged in a convenient and orderly 

way. 

Kitchen Utensils 

Keep the cooking utensils where you can get at them 
easily. Hang them on hooks or place on shelves near where 
they are used, A narrow shelf near the stove, with tea and 
coffee pots and supply cans, salt, pepper, kettle, cooking 
spoon and fork, will save many steps. Hang dishpan, drain- 
er and towels, also vegetable knife, can opener, saucepans, 
near the sink. Near the kitchen table have all the prepar- 
ing dishes and tools. Keep each thing always in the same 
place so as not to waste time hunting for it when needed, 

The Pantry 

The pantry should be the cleanest, sweetest smelling part 
of the house. If there is the slightest musty or disagree- 
able odor, the source of it should be found and removed. 
Stale odors in the pantry are often caused by foods being 
shut in there while still warm. Leave left-over food ex- 
posed to the open air until it is cold, when it should be 
covered closely and put away in the coolest possible place. 

A shiningly clean pantry well stocked with food sup- 
plies is the pride of every good housekeeper. 

19 



20 LOW COST COOKING 

No food should ever he left standing in paper sacks. 

Roaches and ants as well as dust and dirt can get into the 

sacks and make the food unclean. Glass jars with tight 

lids are best for sugar, rice, coffee, etc., but tin cans and 

boxes or crockery jars with tight lids are good. A strip of 

paper with the name of the article on it should be pasted 

on the outside of the vessel. Tin or crockery is best for 

flour and bread. 

Personal Care 

Before beginning to cook, make sure that hands and 
nails are perfectly clean and the hair neatly dressed. Wear 
a wash dress or a big wash apron over the dress. 

Measurements 

All measurements used in these recipes are LEVEL. 
Unless this is kept in mind, the recipes will all turn out 
wrong. 

To get a level tablespoon of flour fill the spoon and 
scrape off the top with the edge of a knife, leaving it ex- 
actly level full. It takes 2 tablespoons measured in this 
way to equal one rounded tablespoonful. 

For a cup of flour sift the flour, lift it into the cup with 
a tablespoon and scrape it off the top of the cup with a 
knife, leaving it just level full. A measuring cup should 
always be used. The tin ones cost 5 cents. 

It takes 3 teaspoons to make one tablespoon; 16 table- 
spoons equal one cup; 2 cups equal one pint. 



GENERAL RECIPES 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 

Cereal grains such as wheat, com, rye and oats are of- 
fered for sale in various forms to be used as food. The 
coarser ground forms are used for mushes, soups and 
gruels and the finely ground flours for bread, cake and 
pastry. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour V/i tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 compressed yeast cakes 

2 tablespoons sugar stirred into H cup of 
2 tablespoons lard or other fat lukewarm water 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the yeast and about 
5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining flour 
and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and knead 
until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased pan, 
greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean cloth. 
Place where it will keep at a warm, even temperature. 
When the dough has raised to double its size, which will be 
in about ij4 hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the com- 
mon bakers' loaf, which weighs I2 ounces. This recipe will 
make eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 

21 



22 LOW COST COOKING 

or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooling. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

A good loaf of bread is light, evenly raised, has a crisp 
golden-brown crust and a fine-grained tender crumb. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour i tablespoon lard or other fat 

Vz cup sugar or molasses i tablespoon salt 

I compressed yeast cake stirred into ^ cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread; if caraway seeds are desired add i 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Graham or Whole Wheat Bread 

3 cups white flour i tablespoon lard 

3 cups graham or whole i tablespoon salt 

wheat flour i yeast cake stirred into ^ 
H cup sugar or molasses cup lukewarm water 

Follow directions for mixing, kneading and baking given 

for white bread. 

Bran Bread 

3 cups white flour Vi, cup molasses 

3 cups bran i teaspoonful baking soda 

I teaspoonful salt 2 cups sour milk or buttermilk 

Mix all together, put into greased bread pan, and bake 
ij4 hours in a slow oven. This is very useful in cases of 
constipation. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

At second kneading, roll bread dough to J4 inch thick- 
ness, spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon. Roll into a long roll, cut into i inch slices, grease 
these on the outside, place in baking pan. When they have 
risen to twice their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 
At the second kneading, roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of J4 inch and spread with a J4 inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 
inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold each strip of dough 
so that there will be a layer of prunes between two layers 
of dough. Grease the outside of each roll, place in a 
greased pan, allow them to rise to twice their size, bake. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 23 

Coffee Cake 

1 cup hot milk H cup sugar 

yi cup lard i teaspoon salt 

14 compressed yeast cake stirred into ^ cup lukewarm water 

Add hot milk to lard and salt, when lukewarm add yeast, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter — about three cups — cover 
dish and let the batter rise. Spread in a well greased pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise; bake. If raisins are 
desired add ^ cup just before putting into baking pan. 

Dutch Apple Cake 
Mix as for coffee cake. Just before baking press into 
the dough three sour apples, pared and cut into eighths. 
Sprinkle the apples generously with sugar, and cinnamon 
if desired. 

Hot Breads 
Hot Breads are wholesome if light and baked until thor- 
oughly done. The inside of a muffin or biscuit should 
be dry and firm, not soft or soggy. 

Use of Sour Milk in Baking 
In any baking recipe where sweet milk with baking pow- 
der is used sour piilk and soda may be used instead. Use 
J^ teaspoon baking soda for each cup of sour milk. This 
will usually not make the product light enough and there 
should be J4 teaspoon baking powder added to each cup of 
flour used. 

White Flour Muffins 

3 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

i^ cups liquid, half water 6 teaspoons baking powder 

and half milk 3 tablespoons melted drjp- 

2 tablespoons sugar pings, suet, or lard 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
well, put quickly into a well greased muffin pan, bake about 
25 minutes in moderately hot oven. An egg may be added 
to the recipe. 

Graham, Whole Wheat or Rye Muffins 
Use recipe above, using lyi cups graham, whole wheat 
or rye flour and ij^ cups white flour. 

Berry Muffins 
Use recipe for White Flour Muffins and add i J4 cups 
of berries — ^huckleberries, raspberries, blackberries or blue- 



24 LOW COST COOKING 

berries — ^just before putting into baking pans. If desired to 
make them more like cake, increase the amount of sugar 
to I cup, the drippings to J4 cup, and add i or 2 eggs. 

Oat Meal Muffins 

2 cups flour I teaspoon salt 

lyi cups cooked oatmeal i cup liquid 

2 tablespoons sugar i tablespoon fat 

5 teaspoons baking powder i egg may be used 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly, put quickly into well-greased muffin pans, bake 
about 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Rice Muffins 

Mix same as above, adding hot cooked rice instead of 
oatmeal. 

Bran Muffins 

1 cup flour 2 cups milk or water 

2 cups bran 6 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons molasses i^ teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons drippings ^ teaspoon baking soda 

Mix dry ingredients, add liquids and beat. Bake as other 
muffins. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

3 cups flour i^ teaspoons salt 

I cup liquid 3 tablespoons fat (lard, crisco, 

6 teaspoons baking powder etc.) 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mixing it with 
flour by cutting with two knives or rub it in lightly with 
finger tips. Add liquid gradually, mixing with a knife. 
Turn onto a floured board, roll or pat to half inch thick- 
ness, cut into rounds with biscuit cutter and place in baking 
pan. It does not hurt biscuits to stand for a while after 
being ready for the oven, if the top is brushed over with 
melted fat in order to prevent a hard crust from forming. 

Drop Biscuits 

2^ cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons melted fat 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients and 
melted fat and mix with a knife. Drop by tablespoonfuls 
in a baking pan, bake in a hot oven. 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 25 

Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2 cups flour H cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder ^ cup oleo 

}/^ teaspoon salt H cup sugar 

2 tablespoons fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work in the fat with the tips of the fingers, add the milk or 
water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet yi 
inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing ft)wl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into j^ inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Plain Griddle Cakes 

3 cups flour 3 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups liquid 6 teaspoons baking powder 

lyi teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquids, beat and begin 
to cook at once by dropping on hot greased frying pan, i 
tablespoonful in a place. Make as many cakes in the grid- 
dle as it will hold without their touching one another. The 
most important point about cooking the cakes is to avoid 
turning them too soon. Do not turn until the cake is cooked 
through, except for a thin upper layer. When this is done, 
the gas bubbles will burst over the top of the cake, show- 
ing cooked substance below. Keep the fire low enough to 
avoid burning before it is cooked through. Turn and 
brown on the other side. As the cakes are done, place them 
on a plate on top of a kettle of boiling water to keep warm. 
Griddle cakes are hard to digest unless very carefully 
cooked. Follow directions closely to prevent them from 
being hard, tough and indigestible or soggy and raw. 

Graham or Com Meal Griddle Cakes 

These are made in the same way by using half white flour 
and half graham flour or commeal. 

Stale Bread Griddle Cakes 

i}4 cups flour I egg 

4 cups stale bread crumbs ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 5 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups hot water 3 tablespoons drippings 



26 LOW COST COOKING 

Pour water and milk over breadcrumbs and soak until 
crumbs are soft. Add egg, sift in the flour mixed with salt 
and baking powder, bake as other griddle cakes. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

ij4 cups flour J4 teaspoon salt 

i^ cups cooked rice 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup milk or water 5 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix liquid ingredients and add rice. Add flour mixed 
and sifted with salt and baking powder. Bake as other 
griddle cakes. 

Com Bread 

2 cups commeal 15^ teaspoon salt 

I cup flour 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

iH cups sour milk pings 

}i teaspoon baking soda ^ cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid ingredients, mix 
thoroughly and quickly turn into hot well-greased flat pan. 
Bake about 30 minutes. Cut into squares and serve hot. 

Shortened Com Bread 

3 cups cornmeal (white pre- i cup sour milk 
f erred) H teaspoon soda 

4 tablespoons cold drippings 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add fat, mix the same as for 
biscuits, add milk, form into large pones about 6 inches long 
and three inches wide and J4 inch thick. The dough should 
be stiff enough for the pone to hold its shape. Place in 
buttered pan, bake 30 minutes, serve hot. "Cracklings" 
may be used instead of drippings. 

Com Pone 

3 cups white cornmeal lyi teaspoons salt 

I cup boiling water 

Mix ingredients, form into pone, same as shortened corn- 
bread, bake in greased pan. about J4 hour. Split open and 
serve with slices of crisp bacon inside. 

For Southern Corn Bread see page 71. 

One mother of five children says: "Cornbread is very 
cheap, but when served piping hot with syrup I never 
can get one big enough." 

TOAST 

Toast may be most easily made in winter when fire is 
going all the time by laying the slices of bread in the oven 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 27 

until they are browned. Toast made in this way is dry all 
the way through, as well as being brown on the outside and 
is more easily digested than soft toast. When the gas 
stove is being used and has a broiler, place the toast on 
it, brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. If there 
is only a gas burner to use it may be covered by a clean 
asbestos mat and the bread laid on this. An asbestos mat 
costs 5 cents. A wire toaster which will toast 4 pieces at 
once, can be bought for 19 cents. 

Toasted Rolls or Baking Powder Biscuits 

These are made by splitting the biscuits or rolls open 
and laying them in oven or on the toaster until the exposed 
crumb is brown. 

French Toast 

Make a mixture of half milk, half water, J4 cup of each, 
add an egg and dip slices of stale bread in this mixture. 
Lay them in a hot greased frying pan and brown on both 
sides. It may be served with syrup. 

Cream Toast 

Cream toast with or without cheese is made by pouring 
thin white sauce over toasted bread. Cheese may be added 
after the hot sauce is removed from the fire. Fuller direc- 
tions are found on page 96. It is seasoned with salt and 
pepper if cheese is added, otherwise with sugar or with 
salt and pepper alone if desired. A dash of nutmeg may 
be added. 

Milk Toast 

Toast bread in oven, cover with hot milk, serve with salt 
and pepper. 

COOKING BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Cereals are made from hard grains and contain much 
starch, so require long cooking to make them easily di- 
gested. Do not be deceived by directions on the box which 
say that the contents can be cooked in 15 or 20 minutes. 
This is never long enough to cook thoroughly and make 
them fit food for young children. 

Use a double boiler or a fireless cooker if possible. Sift 
the dry cereal slowly into salted boiling water, stirring 
all the while to prevent lumping. Some cereals like graham 
flour which lump badly should be mixed first with cold 



28 LOW COST COOKING 

water, thea poured into the boiling water. Cook 5 minutes 
directly over the fire, then place upper part of double 
boiler over the lower part, cover closely and steam for the 
time required. If there is no double boiler, set the vessel 
containing the cereal in a kettle containing boiling water. 
When the coal range is used, a very convenient way to 
cook the cereal is to start it cooking at supper time and 
leave closely covered on the back of the range all night. In 
the morning it will be found to be well done. Better still, 
leave it in the fireless cooker over night. 

Proportions and Time for Cooking Cereals 

I cup Oatmeal 4 cups water 4 hours 

I cup Rolled Oats. . .25^ cups water i to 2 hours 

I cup Farina 4 cups water ^ to i hour 

I cup Cracked Wheat. .6 cups water 6 hours or longer 

I cup Graham Flour... 3 cups water }4 to i hour 

I cup Cornmeal 4 cups water 3 hours 

I cup Hominy 4 cups water 4 hours 

I cup Rice 3 cups water 30 minutes* 

I cup Rice 3 cups water 50 minutest 

* For boiling. t For steaming. 

Cereal Mush 

All of the cereals named above may be served hot as 
mush with cream or milk with or without sugar. Mush 
may also be served with syrup instead of milk. Cornmeal 
mush is much liked in this way. 

If it is difficult to teach a child to eat cereal, adding fruit 
to make it more attractive will often help. 

Oatmeal with Raisins 

I cup oatmeal 14 pound black seedless 

4 cups water raisins 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook oatmeal as directed. Stew raisins according to 
directions given under Dried Fruit (page 53) and add 
enough sugar to make them quite sweet. Serve poured 
over the mush. Dates or figs may be used in the same way 
and with all of the other cereals. 

Farina with Dates 
I cup farina % pound dates 

4 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook farina as directed; 15 minutes before serving add 
the dates, washed and stoned. Seedless raisins and figs 



GRAIN PRODUCTS 29 

may be used in this way and with all of the different cereals 
as well as with farina. 

Fried Com Meal Mush or Hominy 
Pour commeal or hominy mush into a deep pan. When 
cold cut in slices and fry until brown in drippings, lard or 
suet. 

Another method is to use the mush while still hot, drop- 
ping it into the hot fat, frying it in the form of pancake. 

CEREAL DISHES FOR LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Oatmeal and Potatoes 

% cup oatmeal 6 cups boiling water 

I onion Sprig of parsley 

1 lb potatoes (3 or 4) 

Add oatmeal to boiling salted water and cook i J4 hours. 
Add potatoes cut in cubes and boil J4 hour longer. Fry 
onion until brown in drippings, lard or suet, and add this 
to the mixture along with the chopped parsley or any other 
seasoning desired. Left over oatmeal mush may be used 
for this excellent dish. 

Oatmeal Soup 

2 cups cooked oatmeal 2 cups water 
I onion 2 cups milk 

Brown onion chopped fine in drippings, suet or lard, add 
to the other ingredients, heat to boiling point and serve. 

Rice with Lentils 
I cup rice i onion 

^ cup lentils i^ teaspoons salt 

Parsley, celery, etc., as desired. Cook lentils, following 
directions on page 39; J4 hour before serving add rice. Fry 
the onion chopped fine and green flavoring materials (pars- 
ley, celery, etc.) in drippings or lard, add to the rice and 
lentils and serve. 

Rice with Navy Beans 
Follow directions for rice with lentils, using beans in- 
stead of lentils. 

Lima Beans and Barley 

I cup dried lima beans i onion 

yi cup barley i bunch soup greens 

Salt to taste 

Cook beans 2 hours, add barley and cook i hour longer. 
Fry onion and greens in drippings, add to mixture and serve. 



30 LOW COST COOKING 

Polenta 

ij4 cup cornmeal 3 tablespoons salad oil 

2 cups cooked tomatoes 3 tablespoons cheese 

Salt, pepper and small onion for flavoring 

Follow directions for cooking cornmeal mush. Cook to- 
matoes, onion and oil i hour or more until the mixture is 
quite thick. Place layer of hot cornmeal mush in dish, then 
layer of tomato mixture, more cornmeal mush and tomato 
on top. Sprinkle grated cheese over the top of dish. 

Plain Boiled Rice 

Rice must be cooked differently from other cereals, as 
there is danger of overcooking and rendering the product 
soggy. Rice cooked by either boiling or steaming should 
have each grain standing out separate and whole and at the 
same time be perfectly tender. 

Wash I cup rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is quite clean. 
Have ready 2 quarts of rapidly boiling water, to which has 
been added 4 teaspoons of salt. Add the rice slowly and 
boil rapidly 20 minutes. Drain off the water, saving it for 
soup, and set the pan back on a low fire to dry out all the 
rest of the moisture. 

Steamed Rice 

Use 3 cups of boiling salted water to one cup of rice. 
Follow directions for boiled rice, allowing the rice to boil 
for 5 minutes directly over the fire. Cover closely, set pan 
in larger vessel with hot water and steam 50 minutes. 

Rice with Stewed Fruit 

Serve either boiled or steamed rice with fresh fruit, such 
as black plums, stewed with plenty of water and poured 
over. 

Rice with Cinnamon 

Serve either boiled or steamed rice with sugar and cin- 
namon sprinkled over the top of the dish. Serve with or 
without milk. 

Rice with Cheese 

4 cups cooked rice % pound cheese 

4 cups thin white sauce or milk 

Mix white sauce with the rice. Put alternate layers of 
this mixture and grated cheese in baking dish. Cover with 



MEATS 31 

breadcrumbs and bake in moderate oven until hot through 
and crumbs are brown. 

Rice with Tomato — Savory Rice 

Follow directions for rice with cheese, using strained 
tomato instead of white sauce. It may be made with or 
without cheese, and onion or green peppers chopped fine 
may be added if desired. It may also be served hot with- 
out baking. 

MEATS 

Meat is the most difficult part of the diet to manage where 
strict economy must be observed. The cheaper cuts of 
meat, fortunately, contain even more nutriment than the 
expensive ones, but are cheaper because they are not so 
tender. The price per pound, however, does not always 
show which cut of meat is cheaper. The housekeeper must 
consider carefully the amount of bone and fat that is given 
with certain cuts in deciding on the kind to buy ; for example, 
spare ribs at 12 cents a pound cost more than round steak 
at 20 cents a pound because of the large proportion of bone 
they contain. 

The fact to keep in mind is that one pound of lean meat 
is about equal to another pound of lean, no matter which 
part of the beef it is cut from and no matter what the dif- 
ference in price may be; therefore the housekeeper should 
choose the piece which gives the most lean meat for the 
money. Flank steak and lower round are good examples 
of cheap beef, as they are almost all lean with very little 
waste and sell for 12 to 16 cents per pound. The fat is 
valuable, but suet can be bought at 5 cents per pou;nd and 
leaf fat at 10 cents, which will be cheaper than paying for 
it with the meat. Always ask the butcher for the trimmings 
from your own piece of meat. You will find some usable 
pieces. 

The tougher, cheaper meats, unless chopped fine, must 
be cooked by a long, slow process to make them tender 



3^ 



LOW COST COOKING 



and palatable. A fireless cooker is excellent for this 
purpose. 

Principle of Cooking Meats. — Whatever process of 
cooking is used, the following facts should be kept in mind : 
a high degree of heat (that is, the boiling point in water or 
a very hot oven or griddle) hardens and toughens the meat, 
and it should be used only on the outside of the meat where 
it is good to form a crust in order that the inside may be 
kept tender and juicy; long cooking at a low temperature 
softens the hard tissues and makes tough meat tender and 
digestible. Pork and mutton must be cooked well done, 
while beef may be safely eaten rare. 

Stews 

Of the long, slow processes, stewing is one of the best 
methods. In choosing meat for a stew, whether it is beef, 
lamb, mutton, or veal, take a piece containing some bone, as 
this adds to the flavor. As it is to be cooked a long time, 
the tougher parts of the animal such as the neck and leg, 
below the round of beef or mutton, and shoulder of veal 
or lamb may be used. Remove most of the fat before 
cooking, as a greasy stew is too difficult to digest for chil- 
dren and for persons with delicate digestion. 

If the flavor of browned meat is desired, brown the 
pieces in a hot, dry kettle. Add cold water and bring 
slowly to the simmering point. If the meat is not to be 
browned cover at once with boiling water. In all cases 
keep the fire very low so that the stew will not boil, as the 
high heat will toughen the meat. 

Stews may be flavored with all kinds of highly flavored 
vegetables, which should be added just in time to cook 
tender before the meat is done. If the stew is to be the 
main part of the meal, it can be made more nourishing by 
adding barley, rice, macaroni, dumplings, and other cereals 
or flour mixtures. 



MEATS 33 

Brown Stew with Dumplings 

i^ pounds stew beef 3 sprigs of parsley 

1 onion 

Sear the beef in a hot, dry kettle until the pieces are all 
well browned on the outside, cover with cold water and 
cook slowly until tender. Do not allow it to boil. Add 
onion and parsley after first hour. 

Dumplings 

2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 
Yz cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon fat 

^ Mix the dough for dumplings exactly as baking powder 
biscuits, and drop by tablespoonfuls over the top of the 
stew. Cover closely and cook 20 minutes without lifting 
the cover. If dumplings are removed before being thor- 
oughly done they fall and are hard and indigestible. 

A 15-cent knuckle of veal may be used with dumplings 
where much meat is not needed. 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

iH to 2 pounds lamb or mutton i pint carrots 

Follow directions above for stew. When done thicken 
gravy with two tablespoons flour. Serve on large dish 
with a border of boiled rice. 

For stew with vegetables, see page 73. 

Scotch Broth 

2 pounds mutton, from neck, 2 tablespoons each of car- 
shoulder or shank rots, celery and parsnip 

2 tablespoons minced onions 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons minced turnip 3 quarts of cold water 

Remove fat, cut into small pieces, add seasoning, except 
parsley, bring to a boil and then continue cooking just below 
boiling point for three hours. Add J^ cup fine barley after 
the first hour, and parsley >^ hour before it is done. 

Braising 

Braising is another important method for long cooking, 
which is used in making pot roast, beef a la mode, braised 
beef, etc. The meat is first browned on the outside, then 
cooked slowly until tender in small amount of water, either 
on top of stove or in the oven. 



34 



LOW COST COOKING 



Beef a la Mode 

i^ to 2 pounds flat piece of beef, such as flank steak or 

shoulder steak 
I tablesp'n carrots, chopped fine, i tablesp'n onions, chopped fine 

Dressing 

I cup bread crumbs, moistened with cold water 
I teaspoon onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients for dressing, spread over the meat, roll, 
then wrap and tie with twine. Cut slashes in the outside of 
the meat and press into the openings thin pieces of fat salt 
pork. Sear the meat in a hot kettle, add enough water to 
half cover it. Add onion and carrots and cook slowly until 
tender. Braised Cutlets 

Cut any inexpensive meats such as chuck steak, round 
steak, flank steak, heart, etc., in pieces for serving. Brown 
the pieces in a hot pan, place them in a baking dish, cover 
with gravy made from the browning, add a small onion, 
chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. Cover the dish 
closely and bake until meat is tender. 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 pounds meat (pork shoulder, brisket, etc.) 
2 cups each carrots, turnips, parsnip, rutabaga 

Brown meat on all sides in the hot kettle with a bit of 
meat fat. Half cover with water, cook slowly for three or 
four hours, last half hour adding the vegetables, pared and 
cut in pieces. Chopped Meats 

To lessen time of cooking, meats may be chopped fine. 
The chopped meat offered by the butcher is sometimes not 
quite fresh, as stale scraps are added, and it is better for 
the housekeeper to choose the pieces of meat and have them 

ground. jj^at Balls and Onions 

i^ pounds chopped meat i teaspoon salt 

I onion, chopped fine % teaspoon pepper 

Mix onions, salt and pepper thoroughly with meat, form 
into cakes, brown both sides in hot pan. Cover closely 
and continue cooking at a low temperature until done 
through. Serve with brown gravy made from the drippings. 

Meat Loaf 

I pound chopped meat i or 2 eggs 

4 cups breadcrumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

Pepper and chopped onion to taste 



MEATS 35 

Meat loaf may be made without egg as described on 
page 85. If it is to be sliced cold the above recipe is better, 
as it will keep its shape better. 

Mix ingredients together. If too dry add water or milk 
to moisten bread. Form into loaf and bake in moderate 
oven for ij4 to 2 hours. 

Chopped beef and pork mixed, veal and pork, beef or 
veal alone, or Hamburger steak may be used. Rice or cold 
potatoes may be used instead of bread crumbs, and tomatoes 
may be used for flavoring. 

Pan Broiling 
This is a useful way to cook meat quickly, which may 
be used for all kinds of steaks and chops. Directions must 
be closely followed to preserve the tenderness of the meat 
and to prevent it from becoming dry and hard. 

Pan Broiled Flank Steak 

Do not allow the butcher to score or slash the flank steak 
for broiling, as this allows the good juices to escape. 

Have the pan very hot, grease it slightly to prevent 
sticking, lay the steak in whole, even if it reaches over the 
edges of the pan. It will shrink in cooking. After brown- 
ing on one side, turn and brown the other. Salt and pepper 
may be sprinkled on each side after it is browned. As soon 
as browned, cover the pan closely and continue to cook on a 
very low pre until done. It will take 10 to 20 minutes, ac- 
cording to thickness, to cook it well done and from 5 to 10 
minutes to cook it rare. 

In serving cut across the fibre of the meat. 

All kinds of chops and steaks are pan-broiled in this way. 

Made Meat Dishes 
It is sometimes necessary to use very little meat, either 
for economy or because the health of the family is better 
with less. A small amount of meat may be made to serve 
the family by combining with other foods. 

Scalloped Meats 

2 cups chopped cooked meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

3 cups thin white sauce or brown gravy 

Left over meats may very well be used for this dish and 
different kinds may be used together if they are at hand. 



36 LOW COST COOKING 

Mix rice or bread crumbs with white sauce or brown gravy. 
Place alternate layers of this mixture and the chopped 
meat in baking dish. Cover with bread crumbs, bake in 
moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

Meat Croquettes 

2 cups chopped meat, beef, pork, fish or fowl 

3 cups boiled rice or breadcrumbs 

2 cups thick white sauce or brown gravy 
Leftover meats and gravy may be used for this dish. 
Make white sauce by recipe on page 42. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly together. Form into round or oblong balls, bake 
in oven until brown on outside, or brown on both sides in 
hot greased pan. Serve as meat balls. 

Turkish PUaf 

3 cups rice i}4 cups water 

15^ cups tomatoes 2 cups cooked meat, chopped 

i^ onion 
Mix rice with tomatoes and onion chopped fine and water, 
place alternate layers of this mixture and of chopped meat 
in baking dish, cover with bread crvmibs and bake until 
brown in a moderate oven. 

Meat Scalloped with Rice and Onions 
Partly fill baking dish with alternate layers of cooked 
rice and thinly sliced onions. Add a layer cooked left-over 
meat chopped fine or three-fourths pound raw chopped 
meat. Add hot water to moisten dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and bake three-fourths hour in moderate oven. 

Hominy with Bacon 
Fry 4 slices of bacon until crisp. Cut into small pieces, 
add 4 cups cooked hominy and reheat. Scraps of any kind 
of leftover meat may be used instead of bacon and any of 
the other cereals may be used instead of hominy. 

Meat Pie 
Use leftover stew or any remains of meat at hand. Put 
the meat in a baking dish, add sufficient gravy to cover 
well, adding parsley, celery, etc., as desired for seasoning. 
Cover the top with a half-inch layer of dough made as for 
baking powder biscuits, bake in hot oven until dough is 
done. Tripe 

1% pounds tripe 2 cups white sauce 

Cut tripe in small pieces, cover with hot water and cook 
15 minutes. Drain, add white sauce, stew 20 minutes. 



MEATS 37 

Brains 

Soak over night in salt water, remove outer skins, roll 
in flour or bread crumbs. Brown both sides in hot greased 
pan, cover closely and cook on low fire about 20 minutes 
until well done. 

To scramble, break in small pieces, add i or 2 eggs and 
cook in hot greased pan, stirring constantly. 

Stuffed Heart 

Remove veins and cords of calves or beef heart, soak and 
clean. Stuff with dressing and braize as described for Beef 
a la Mode, page 34. 

Hamburger Steak with Tomatoes 

1% pounds chopped meat Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan, stirring constantly. When 
part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, cover closely and 
continue cooking on low fire until done. 

PISH 

Fish is one of the high protein foods and may be used 
at any meal instead of meat. The cheaper kinds are more 
economical than meat. In buying fish be sure it is fresh. 
In fresh fish the eyes are bright, the gills red, the flesh firm 
and odorless! Be sure it is well cleaned before cooking. 

Panned Fish 

Qean the fish, ruj) with salt and dry with a little flour. 
Lay in very hot frying pan greased with salt pork drippings. 
Brown quickly on both sides, coyer closely and cook on 
low fire 10 to 20 minutes until cooked through. If the fish 
is large cut into pieces ; if small, cook whole. 

Baked Fish 

Bake and clean large fish leaving on the head ; stuff with 
dressing; lay in pan and bake in a moderate oven. When 
thoroughly done place whole on a hot dish. 

Dressing for Fish 

Put I tablespoon drippings in a sauce pan ; stir in 2 cups 
of bread crumbs, i teaspoon chopped onion, i teaspoon 
parsley, i tablespoon chopped suet. Moisten with J^ cup of 
milk or water. 



38 LOW COST COOKING 

THE COOKING OF EGGS 

The same principle that applies to the cooking of meats 
applies also to eggs, as the protein found in each is made 
tough and indigestible by a high degree of heat. Even if 
the eggs are cooked hard they should never be tough. 

Hard Cooked Eggs 

Place the eggs in a stew pan and cover with boiling 
water. Do not allow the water to boil after the eggs are in, 
but keep it hot for fifty minutes. Cooked in this way the 
whites of the eggs will be solid but tender, and the yolks 
solid and mealy. 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

If the eggs are to be cooked in the shell, they may be 
put into cold water and the water brought slowly to the 
boiling point. By this time the white will be solid and the 
egg hot all the way through. Or they may be dropped into 
boiling water, the pan set on the back of the stove and 
allowed to stand from 7 to 10 minutes. 

Poached Eggs 
Bring to the boiling point enough water to cover the 
eggs. Break each egg separately in a cup, slip it quickly 
into the hot water, let it stand, keeping the water hot but 
not allowing it to boil until the white is firm. This will take 
about seven minutes. 

Scrambled Eggs 
When eggs are expensive, a smaller number may be used 
for a meal if they are cooked with other foods. In scram- 
bling milk and flour may be added to enlarge the bulk. 
Follow the recipe given on page 84. 

Eggs Scrambled with Potatoes 

4 cups cold boiled potatoes ^ ^ 2 to 4 eggs 

Cut the potatoes in thin slices or in J^-inch cubes, add 
the beaten egg, cook in a warm greased frying pan over a 
low fire, stirring constantly until the eggs are cooked and 
the potatoes warmed through. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomatoes 

H can tomatoes 2 to 4 eggs 

Add the beaten eggs to the tomatoes, heat, stirring the 
mixture until the eggs are cooked. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. 



LEGUMES 

heg\xmes are a very useful class of food, as they contain 
a large amount of nutriment and may be used to replace 
part of the meat in the diet. Little or no meat should be 
served at the same time. One pound of any of those in 
the table following contains as much food as the average 
pound of flank of beef or fresh ham, and more than twice 
as much as cuts which contain much bone, such as spare 
ribs and 1^ of veal. 

TABLES OF COMMON LEGUMES 

Price Time for cooking 
per pound after soaking 

Split yellow peas S cts. 25^ hours 

Split green peas 6 cts. 2^ hours 

Whole green peas 7 cts. 4 hours 

Black-eyed peas 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lentils 6 cts. 3 hours 

Lima beans 8 cts. 3 hours 

Kidney beans 8 cts. 354 hours 

Navy beans 5 cts. 3 hours 

The following directions may be used for cooking all of 
them. Wash carefully. Soak several hours or over night ; 
start to cook well covered with cold water and cook until 
tender. Add one teaspoonful of salt to each cup. They 
may then be made into a large number of attractive dishes, 
which may be divided into the following types : 

Type I. Tomatoes, cheese, etc., may be added for sea- 
soning as in the following dishes: 

Boiled Beans with Tomatoes 

Follow directions for cooking beans given above. When 
almost tender add canned tomatoes and seasoning and cook 
one-half hour longer. Use onion, pepper, salt, etc., for 
seasoning. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, lentils, black eyed peas may 
also be used in this way. 

Beans with Cheese and Green Peppers 

J4 pound kidney beans i green pepper J4 pound cheese 

Add pepper and salt to taste 

39 



40 



LOW COST COOKING 



Soak beans over night. In the morning cook slowly one 
hour. Chop peppers and cook with the beans until tender. 
Just before taking from the fire add cut-up cheese. Serve 
hot on toast. 

Type II. The flavor may be secured by adding a piece 
of meat such as salt pork, end of salt shoulder or ham. 

Black Eyed Peas with Ham Butts 

2 cups black-eyed peas i^ pound salt ham butt 
Wash and soak the peas over night. Remove the rind 

from the ham butt. Cover with cold water, cook slowly 
for 2 hours, add peas, and continue cooking until peas and 
meat are tender. 

Navy beans, lima beans, split peas and lentils may be 
cooked in the same way. 

Type III. They may be baked with various kinds of 
seasoning added. 

Baked Peas with Bacon 

Use dried peas, either split or whole. When cooked 
tender evaporate most of the water and turn into the baking 
dish. Place strips of thin cut salt pork or bacon on top. 
Bake in a moderate oven until bacon is crisp and brown. 
Beans, lima beans, and lentils may be baked in the same way. 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 cups beans 2 tablespoons sugar 

^ pound salt pork i tablespoon molasses 

2 teaspoons salt 
Soak beans over night, cover with cold water; cook 
slowly one-half hour and drain off the water. Scald a piece 
of salt pork, place one thin slice of pork in the bottom of 
the baking dish; put in the beans and bury the piece of 
pork in them, leaving the edges exposed. Mix molasses, 
sugar and salt, add boiling water and pour over the beans. 
Add enough boiling water to cover the beans and bake 6 to 
8 hours ; uncover the last hour to allow the beans and pork 
to brown. A five-pound lard pail makes a good baking 
dish for beans. 
Type IV. They may be baked in a loaf, as the following : 

Lentil Loaf 

4 cups lentils (cooked) % lb. salt pork or bacon 

3 cups breadcrumbs or 2 cups Flavorings--Onions, par»- 

cooked rice ley, etc., as desired 

Cook lentils, following directions above. Mash fine, add 



LEGUMES 41 

rice or bread crumbs and flavorings chopped fine. Form 
into a loaf resembling meat loaf, place in baking pan, lay 
pork or bacon, sliced thin, over the top, and bake in mod- 
erate oven until meat is crisp and brown. 

Lima Bean Loaf, Navy Bean Loaf, Kidney Bean 
Loaf, all may be prepared in the same way, or the loaf 
may be made from leftovers of different kinds, mixed. 

Type V. They may be creamed by adding white sauce. 

Creamed Kidney Beans 

Cook kidney beans according to directions given. For 
each cup of beans add one cup of white sauce made by 
recipe on page 70, or by directions given there for creamed 
carrots. 

Lima Beans also are especially good creamed. 

Vegetable Stews 
Stews may be made with vegetables without meat, or 
with only a small amount used for flavoring. If one of the 
legumes is used for the basis of the stew, it will, with bread 
and milk, form a good lunch or supper. 

Lentil Stew 

1 cup lentils 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups diced potatoes 3 slices bacon or salt pork 
Wash lentils and soak over night ; boil 3 hours, add pota- 
toes and boil for 20 minutes. Fry bacon, remove from pan, 
and stir flour in the fat. Add i cup water and boil until 
thick. Add this gravy and the bacon cut into small pieces 
to the stew. 

Beans, lima beans, kidney beans, or black-eyed peas may 
be used instead of lentils. 

Jungle Stew 

lyi cup kidney beans i onion 

^ cup macaroni or rice 4 tablespoons drippings 

^ can tomatoes seasoning to taste 

Wash and soak beans over night, boil 3 hours. Brown 
sliced onions in frying pan, with drippings, add to stew with 
tomatoes, seasoning and the macaroni broken into bits. Sim- 
mer a half hour. 

Navy beans, lentils or lima beans may be used instead 
of the kidney beans. 

Split Peas with Carrots 

3 cups carrots (cooked) 3 cups green split peas (cooked) 

Salt and pepper to taste 



42 



LOW COST COOKING 



Cut the carrots in J^-inch cubes, mash the peas fine and 
add enough water to make them like a very thick soup. 
Minced onions or parsley may be added if additional sea- 
soning is desired. Put the things all together and reheat. 

Succotash 
Succotash is green com, fresh or canned, combined with 
beans, green or dried. 

Lima Bean Succotash 

Yi can corn 2 cups cooked lima beans 

2 tablespoons drippings salt and pepper to taste 

Heat corn and beans together, add seasoning and, if 
desired, a little milk. 
For the use of legumes in soups, see page 50. 

White Sauce 
White sauce or cream sauce sometimes called milk sauce 
or gravy, is much used to blend foods and add flavor. It 
also adds food value in inexpensive form. Milk, floiir, fat 
and seasoning are the usual ingredients. All or part of the 
milk may be replaced by water, meat, fish, or chicken stock, 
and fruit or vegetable juices. For the fat, drippings, oleo, 
butter, lard, crisco, etc., may be used. 

Thin Sauce. Medium Sauce. Thick Sauce. 

I tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons flour 3-4 tablespoons flour 

I tablespoon fat 2 tablespoons fat 2-4 tablespoons fat 

54 teaspoon salt H teaspoon salt Va-Vi teaspoon salt 

Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper, Few grains pepper 

etc. etc. I cup liquid 

I cup liquid i cup liquid 

Suitable for cream- For general use Basis of croquettes, 

ed potatoes, maca- with fish and most meat loaf, etc. 
roni, toast, etc. vegetables. 

Methods of mixing: (i) Melt fat in saucepan, stir until 
frothy all over, then add liquid slowly, hot or cold, while 
stirring ; cook again until thick, stirring until smooth. 

(2) Rub fat and flour together and stir into the warm 
liquid in a double boiler, then cook and stir until thick and 
smooth. 

(3) When less fat is used, rub the flour smoothly with 
a little cold liquid and stir into the remainder, which 
should be hot, and cook in double boiler until smooth. 
Then add fat and seasoning. 



VEGETABLES 

Besides the starch and sugar they contain, which furnish 
energy for the body, vegetables have in them minerals 
which are necessary to health. If we do not get these min- 
erals in our food, we will probably be compelled to get them 
in the form of medicine, which means that we must buy 
the medicine as well as pay a doctor for prescribing for us. 
For example, the person who has a pallid color is probably 
anemic. He needs iron, and instead of taking an iron tonic 
it is much better to get iron into the blood by eating foods 
rich in iron, such as carrots, spinach, prunes, turnips and 
other fruits and vegetables. During the summer by watch- 
ing the markets and wagons we can usually get a good 
variety of fresh vegetables at reasonable prices. In the 
winter, we have what is known as winter vegetables. 

COMMON WINTER VEGETABLES 

Price per Pound Time for Cooking 

Carrots i to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Rutabaga i to 3 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Onion i to 2 cts. 30 min. to 2 hours 

Beets I to 3 cts. i hour to 3 hours 

Parsnips 2 to 4 cts. 40 min. to i hour 

Celery root 3 to 5 cts. 30 min. to i hour 

Cabbage 2 to 4 cts. 20 min. to 40 min. 

Turnip i to 3 cts. 20 min. to 30 min. 

Directions for Cooking Vegetables 

When these vegetables are to be served creamed, but- 
tered, browned, etc., they should first be pared and cut into 
pieces, after being carefully washed. Cook until tender in 
boiling salted water. Beets are an exception to this rule, 
as they should be cooked whole with the skin on. The time 
for cooking varies with the age of the vegetable and the 
size of the pieces into which it is cut. 

As the valuable minerals which the vegetables contain are 
soluble, much of them go into the water in which the 
vegetable is cooked. For this reason none of it should be 
thrown away. If it cannot be served with the vegetable it 
should be used for soups. 

In steaming and baking there is no loss of minerals and 
these methods may sometimes be used. 

43 



44 LOW COST COOKING 

» 

Buttered Beets 

Cook beets, following directions above. When tender 
remove outer skin by rubbing it oif with the fingers under 
running water. Slice, and add butter, oleo or drippings, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. 

Rutabaga, parsnips, onions, and turnips may all be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Creamed Rutabaga 

Cook in large pieces until tender. When done cut in 
half-inch cubes, add white sauce and serve hot. 

Creamed Carrot, Turnip, Celery Root, and Parsnip 
are prepared in the same way. 

Hashed Cabbage 

When cooked tender, drain oif the water in which the 
cabbage has been cooked, which should be saved for adding 
flavoring to soup. Chop cabbage fine, add 2 tablespoons of 
water, 2 tablespoons drippings, salt and pepper to taste. 
Set back on fire for a few minutes until flavorings are ab- 
sorbed, stirring constantly. Serve hot. 

Hashed Turnips and Rutabaga are prepared in the 
same way. 

Scalloped Onion 

Remove the outer skin from onions; boil whole until 
tender. Place onions in baking dish with alternate layers 
of bread crumbs, cover with milk, water or mixture of milk 
and water; cover top of dish with bread crumbs, brown in 
oven. 

Scalloped turnips, cabbage and tomatoes are prepared in 
the same way. 

Browned Parsnips 

When parsnips are cooked tender, cut in half-inch slices, 
long way ; brown in oven with bits of bacon over the top, 
or in a frying pan with drippings. 

Potatoes 

Potatoes must be treated differently from other vegeta- 
bles because of the large proportion of starch they contain. 
When properly cooked, potatoes are dry and mealy. Soggy, 
watery potatoes are difficult to digest and unwholesome. 
Follow directions carefully to avoid this. 



VEGETABLES 45 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes carefully, leave whole or cut in 
uniform size and drop into boiling salted water. Boil 
until tender but not longer. Test the potatoes by sticking 
a knife or fork tine into it to determine when it is tender. 
They will usually be done in 30 minutes. When done, drain 
all the water off at once and set the kettle back on a very 
low fire with the cover partly on until the remaining mois- 
ture is gone. Add drippings for seasoning. 

Boiling potatoes with the skins on saves much waste. 
Wash the potatoes, drop into boiling salted water and boil 
until tender. Drain off water, break the skin of each potato 
so that it will not become soggy, and set kettle on back of 
stove to dry out moisture. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Mash boiled potatoes, add drippings and milk, and beat 
well. Keep hot but uncovered imtil served. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut boiled or baked potatoes in half-inch cubes, add white 
sauce and reheat. To each cup of potatoes add J^ to i cup 
white sauce. 

Creamed Potatoes with Cheese 

Prepare creamed potatoes as above. Set kettle on back 
of stove and add cheese grated or chopped fine. Stir occa- 
sionally until cheese is melted, but do not let it boil, as a 
high degree of heat will make the cheese stringy and 
tough. To each cup of potatoes i to 2 tablespoons cheese 
may be used. 

Hashed Potatoes 

Chop cold boiled or baked potatoes fine, put into a hot 
greased frying pan, and brown. Chopped leftover meat 
may be added. 

Baked Potatoes 

Choose medium sized, smooth potatoes, wash, bake for 
one hour in a hot oven. As soon as they are taken up, 
break the skin to let out the moisture. If this is left in they 
will soon become sogrgy. 

Scalloped Potatoes 
Fill baking dish with alternate layers of sliced potatoes 
and onions, add salt and pepper to taste, add milk or milk 



46 LOW COST COOKING 

and water to cover. Put layer of bread crumbs over top 
and bake lyi to 2 hours or until potatoes and onions are 
cooked. Leftover potatoes may be used, in which case 
much less time will be required for cooking. One-half 
hour will usually be sufficient to cook the onions, if sliced 
thin. 

Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet potatoes contain more nourishment than white 
potatoes, so that at 3 cents per pound they are about as 
expensive in proportion to their food value as white pota-^ 
toes at 2 cents per pound. They are not, however, so easil)^)^ 
digested. 

They are boiled or baked in exactly the same way as 
white potatoes. 

SUMMER VEGETABLES 

Almost all the vegetables listed under winter vegetables 
are to be obtained all summer at still lower prices than 
those named. In addition the vegetables in the following 
table may, in season, be obtained at reasonable prices : 

Time for Cooking 

•Spinach and other greens 30 to 40 minutes 

Beet greens 50 minutes 

Green corn 15 to 30 minutes 

Kohlrabi 20 to 40 minutes 

Asparagus IS to 30 minutes 

String beans J4 to i hour 

Peas 20 to 30 minutes 

Artichokes 30 minutes 

Lettuce (served raw). (See Salads.) 
Radishes (served raw). 

Spinach and Other Greens 

Spinach and other greens must be very carefully washed 
through 4 or 5 waters until all of the dirt and sand caught 
in the leaves is removed. When clean drop into boiling 
water and cook until tender. Evaporate most of the water, 
add salt, pepper, and drippings or oleo. 

Beet Greens 

Leave small beet root and top together. Wash carefully ; 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Add seasoning 
as above, or milk. 



VEGETABLES 47 

Com on Cob 

Remove husk, cut out any decayed part ; wash ears and 
drop into boiling unsalted water; cook 15 to 30 minutes^) y 
according to age. Salted water turns the com yellow.' ; 
Serve hot with salt. 

Kohlrabi 

Wash and pare; cut in slices or cubes and cook until 
tender. Add salt, pepper and drippings or oleomargarine. 
They may also be served creamed by adding white sauce. 

String Beans 

Wash, remove strings and break into i-inch pieces. Cook 
in boiling salted water until tender. Add drippings for 
seasoning. They may be seasoned by a piece of salt pork 
which is put on in the beginning and cooked with the beans. 

Peas 

Shell peas ; cook until tender in boiling water. Add salt, 
pepper and drippings or oleomargarine for seasoning; or 
they may be creamed by adding white sauce. 

y -COL ^ ^-4 J'<'^*^^'^A^ 



J 



SALADS 

Vegetable foods that may be eaten raw, such as lettuce, 
tomatoes, cabbage, cucumbers, cress and celery, are most 
suitable for salads. All sorts of cooked vegetables, how- 
ever, and raw or cooked fruits may be dressed and served 
cold as salads. Combinations that are good are cold boiled 
kidney beans with chopped celery, cold boiled peas with 
carrots, chopped cabbage with celery or nuts, sliced cucum- 
bers with lettuce, tomatoes with lettuce, apples with celery. 
Chopped peanuts may be added to all of these if desired. 
In mixing a salad have all materials as cold as possible. 
Mix with the dressing. All kinds may be served on let- 
tuce leaves or with sprigs of cress. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole egg 
1/3 cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour % teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons oleo or crisco H teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with oleo and part of milk, 
add remaining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back 
of stove, add egg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the egg. 
Add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix thoroughly. 

Oil Dressing for Salad 

6 tablespoons oil 2 teaspoons salt 

I to 2 tablespoons vinegar or ^ teaspoon paprika 
lemon juice 

The oil used may be olive, cottonseed or peanut. Olive 
oil costs from 65 cents to $1.25 per quart, while cottonseed 
and peanut oils cost 25 to 45 cents, have the same food 
value, and a very pleasant flavor. 

Put salt and paprika in dish with vinegar or lemon 
juice and mix thoroughly. Pour in the oil slowly, beating 
all the time. 

48 



SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into the two general classes ; those 
made with meat and those without. 

Soups with Meat. Meat is used to give flavor. In 
order to extract the juices which contain the flavoring ma- 
terial the meat should be started to cook in cold water and 
cooked slowly for a long time. This leaves the meat itself 
tasteless, but it still contains most of its food value and 
should always be used. It can either be served with the 
soup so that its lack of flavor will not be noticed or it may 
be served in combination with a highly-flavored vegetable 
such as tomatoes or onions. 

Additions to Meat Soups. The soup itself made in this 
way has a pleasing taste and acts as a stimulant to digestion, 
but contains very little food. To make it more nourishing 
other food materials may be added. For example, a cereal 
such as rice or barley ; a flour preparation such as macaroni, 
noodles, or dumplings ; or a legume such as beans, peas or 
lentils. 

Fat with Soup. Soup containing much fat from the 
meat should not be given to young children or to adults 
with delicate stomachs, as it is difficult to digest and may 
cause digestive disturbances. To remove the fat set the 
soup aside to cool. When the fat has risen to the top and 
hardened remove it, reheat the soup and serve. 

Soup Stock from Bones. Always save the bones of the 
chicken or other fowl, fish, or those from roast, pot roast 
or chops. If the bones are large crack them, cover well 
with cold water and cook slowly five or six hours. Strain 
out the bones, add vegetables for seasoning and rice or 
barley for nourishment and cook until these are well done. 

49 



50 LOW COST COOKING 

Seasoning for Soups and Stews. The success of a 
soup lies largely in the flavoring. Any cook may by making 
a few experiments in combining flavors find those most 
pleasing to the taste of the people for whom she cooks. Do 
not be afraid to try new combinations of flavoring. 

Some favorite flavorings are tomatoes, onion, celery, 
turnip, carrot, cabbage, parsley and bay leaves. A com- 
bination of several different flavors is usually better liked 
than a single one. 

The tough leaves of celery, unfitted for other uses, 
should always be dried in the sun or oven and kept in a 
fruit jar for future use. Parsley may be dried in the same 
way; or better still grown in a window box so as always 
to be ready for use. 

No water in which vegetables have been cooked should 
ever be thrown away, but kept to add flavoring to soups. 

To Serve with Soup. Bread, toast, croutons or crackers 
are usually served with soup. Crackers are more expensive 
than the other materials, as a pound of crackers contains 
only a little more nourishment than a pound of bread. The 
crackers cost lo cents per pound in bulk and i6 cents per 
pound in packages, while bakers' bread costs 6^ cents per 
pound and may be made at home for half that amount. 

Croutons. Croutons are made of bread toasted a light 
brown all the way through. Cut stale bread in round, 
square or oblong pieces or in one-inch cubes and set in a 
slow oven until brown. In serving, the cubes may be 
dropped on the bowl of soup just before it is taken to the 
table. 

Soups Without Meat. Soups without meat are usually 
made of vegetables or legumes with or without the addi- 
tion of milk. 

Cream Soups. A cream soup is a very thin white sauce, 
flavored with vegetable. It should be smooth and about as 
thick as thin cream. 



SOUPS 



51 



Cream of Lima Bean Soup 

3 cups lima beans (cooked) 3 tablespoons drippings or 
iH cups milk suet 

1% cups water 2 tablespoons flour 

}i teaspoon pepper ^ Ij4 teaspoons salt 

If additional seasoning is desired use i tablespoon each of 
onion, celery, parsley, etc., or any one of them alone. 

Melt suet, stir in flour, add water and boil for 5 minutes. 
If onion or celery is used for flavoring add it chopped fine 
to the suet before adding flour. Put beans through a 
colander or mash them fine ; add them and the milk to the 
soup. Do not boil again, but keep hot until served. 

Navy beans, kidney beans, split peas, green peas, com 
and potatoes may be used instead of the lima beans. The 
potatoes and peas should be mashed fine and the beans and 
com crushed through a colander before being added. 

Purees are thick soups, usually made without milk. 

Puree of Split Pea 

4 cups split peas (cooked) i tablespoon flour 
2 cups water i teaspoon salt 

2 slices fat pork % teaspoon pepper 

For additional flavoring, if desired, i tablespoon each of 
onion, parsley, celery, etc., may be used. 

Fit pork until crisp and break or cut into small bits. 
Stir flour into the pork and drippings. Add water and boil 
5 minutes. If onion, celery or any of the flavoring mate- 
rials requiring cooking are used, chop fine and add to drip- 
pings before stirring in the flour. Add peas, mashed fine, 
and salt and pepper. This soup may be made more nutri- 
tious by using milk instead of part of the water. It should 
be added last so that the mixture need not boil afterwards. 
Just before serving sprinkle cube shaped croutons over the 
top of the bowl. 

Navy beans, lima beans, kidney beans, carrots, green peas 
or com may be used instead of the split peas. When beans 
are used tomatoes may be used for flavoring. 

Sour Cream Soup 
4 cups broken bread 3 tablespoons sour cream 

3 cups water 3 tablespoons drippings 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Stir bread in hot drippings until brown; add hot water 
and let the mixture stand a few minutes until the bread is 
soaked. Just before serving add seasoning and sour cream. 



52 



LOW COST COOKING 



Potato Soup with Leek 

5 medium-sized potatoes 4 slices salt pork 

I leek 2 tablespoons flour 

Vi onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil potatoes and leek together until soft and mash them 
in the water in which they are cooked. Fry salt pork crisp, 
break into small bits, stir flour and chopped up onion into 
drippings and add the whole to potatoes and leek. Add 
sufficient water to form thick soup. 

Bean Soup 

An excellent household manager says: 

"A very good soup is made when you prepare beans to 
bake. Soak the beans over night, rinse and put on to boil 
in the morning with plenty of cold water. Boil until beans 
are soft, using a small piece of fat pork or bacon for sea- 
soning. When soft, take out beans in baking dish, leaving 
about two cupfuls in the water. Add more water, let sim- 
mer on back of the stove. Season the beans, using syrup 
to sweeten if desired, also the pork and arrange in pan to 
bake. Put them aside for supper, baking slowly with 
plenty of water on them. About one hour before dinner, 
cut up about 3 medium sized potatoes, two onions and a 
carrot into the soup. Let cook thoroughly and serve hot 
with toast or crackers. This will make a very good dinner, 
leaving the baked beans for supper. Try this on baking 
day. The soup will use up all the stale bread, and fresh 
biscuits with syrup and the baked beans with stewed toma- 
toes make a fine supper." 

Thin Soups without Milk 
Soups of the same thickness as cream soups may be 
made of vegetables without milk. 

Bean and Tomato Soup 

3 cups boiled beans i small onion 

1 cup tomatoes i tablespoon mixed parsley 

2 cups water 2 tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons drippings 

Mince onion and parsley, add to melted drippings and 
cook. Stir in the flour, add water and boil. Add beans 
mashed fine and tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. 

Split peas, kidney beans, lentils, string beans, green peas, 
com, potatoes or potatoes mixed witili parsnips may be 
used instead of beans. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 

When a dessert is served it should round out the meal, 
furnishing something which is lacking. If the meal has 
not contained enough starchy food use a dessert made of 
rice, tapioca or bread. 

Fresh fruit, raw, stewed or baked, makes a good dessert. 
In cooking, use the skin of the fruit if it cooks tender. Dried 
fruits are useful in times when fresh ones are most expen- 

s*v^- Dried Fruits 

Wash carefully; soak over night; cook slowly in same 
water; add sugar to taste. 

Apples, apricots, peaches, dates, raisins, currants and 
prunes are to be cooked in this way. Combining two or 
more of these is sometimes better than one alone. 

Apples may be combined with either prunes or raisins, 
peaches with apricots, etc., using a fruit containing much 
acid with one containing little. 

Baked Banana 
Baked bananas are more easily digested than raw ones. 
Peel the banana and cut lengthwise into halves; lay in 
baking pan and bake them about 15 minutes in moderate 
oven. Serve sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice. 

Baked Rhubarb 
Wash rhubarb, cut into half-inch pieces, place in baking 
dish, sprinkle generously with sugar, and add small amount 
of water, just enough to start it, as it contains much water. 
Bake in a slow oven for about ij4 hours, or until pieces 
are tender. jjj^^ Pudding 

I quart skim milk, or i pint ^ teaspoon salt 

whole milk and i pint water J^ cup sugar 
}4 cup rice 

Mix ingredients together, pour in a greased baking dish, 
bake three hours in a very slow oven, stirring frequently 
to prevent the rice from sticking to the bottom of the dish. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Rice with Fruit 

Boiled or steamed rice, with stewed fruit which has been 
cooked with plenty of water, poured over it, makes a good 

53 



54 LOW COST COOKING 

dessert. Prunes, black or red plums and peaches are espe- 
cially good for this. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons chocolate or 

% cup sugar cocoa 

5 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix flour, sugar and chocolate, add milk and boil, stir- 
ring constantly to prevent lumping, until mixture thickens. 
Serve hot or cold with milk or cream. 

Indian Pudding ' 

I quart scalded milk ^ cup cornmeal 

yi cup molasses i teaspoon salt 

Pour the milk slowly on the meal and cook in double 
boiler for 15 minutes. Pour into a greased baking dish, and 
bake 2 hours or more in a slow oven. 

Brown Betty 

Place a layer of sour apples, pared and cut in thin slices, 
in the bottom of a baking dish. Sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon or nutmeg, add layer of toasted bread cnmibs and 
another of apple and so on to the top of the dish. Scatter 
a few bits of suet over the top layer of crumbs. Add 
enough water to moisten the crumbs well and bake in a 
slow oven, covered, until apples are done. Instead of raw 
apples, apple sauce made of dried apples may be used. 

Berry Betty, Plum Betty, Date Betty, etc., may be made 
in the same way, using these fruits instead of apples. Any 
juicy fruit may be used. The toasted bread may be used 
in whole slices instead of crumbed. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 
I cup flour I tablespoon oleo, cottosuet 

1 egg or drippings 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons milk H teaspoon salt 

Sift flour with salt and baking powder. Add drippings 
and rub through flour with finger tips. Add egg and milk. 
Mix with knife. 

Cherries, rhubarb, plums, fresh or dried apples, fresh or 
dried peaches, etc., may be .used for fruit. Stew with 
plenty of water. While fruit is boiling drop dough on top 
by tablespoonfuls. Cover kettle and cook for 20 minutes 
without lifting cover. Remove cover and set in oven for a 
few minutes. Serve hot. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 55 

Flavoring for Desserts 

The good flavoring extracts on the market are expensive, 
and the economical housekeeper should study the use of 
other materials which cost less. Spices, especially nutmeg, 
mace, ginger and cinnamon, may be used in cake instead of 
vanilla. Caraway and poppy seed may be used in cookies 
and sweet breads. Caramel is a pleasing flavor, and when 
made at home is very inexpensive. 

Caramel 

1 cup sugar yi cup water 

Boil sugar and water until it becomes a thick medium 
brown mixture. Remove from fire, add enough hot water 
to make a thick syrup. If cold water is put into the hot 
syrup it will pop out and may injure the cook. Another 
method is to heat the sugar in a dry pan until it melts and 
browns, then add hot water and boil until it becomes a thick 
syrup. Caramel made in this way may be set aside in a 
covered dish or jelly glass, to be used as needed. It will not 
spoil and needs only to be kept clean. 

Cake 

The success of a cake lies more in the mixing and baking 
than in the richness of the ingredients. Measure carefully 
and follow directions closely. In baking, keep the heat of 
the oven as even as possible and do not allow the cake to 
be jarred or cold air to strike it while it is baking. When 
it is done, the edges will shrink from the pan and the sur- 
face will be firm to the touch. 

Plain Cake 

2 cups sifted flour i or 2 eggs 

I cup sugar 3 tablespoons oleomargarine 

I cup liquid 4 teaspoons baking powder 

(milk, or milk and water) 

Flavoring — % teaspoon mace, nutmeg or other spices ; 

I tablespoon caramel, etc. 

Mix sugar, oleomargarine and egg yolks thoroughly to- 
gether. Add the liquid and all except % cup of the flour 
and beat the mixture hard for five minutes. Add the 
egg whites beaten stiff, the remaining flour mixed and sifted 
with the baking powder, mix quickly and pour into a but- 
tered pan. Bake in a moderate oven. 



56 LOW COST COOKING 

It may be baked in a loaf, in layers, or made into cup 
cakes by baking in muffin pan. 

Cottage Pudding 
Cut plain cake while still warm in squares, and pour over 
it chocolate, caramel, or lemon sauce, or stewed fruit. 

Chocolate or Caramel Sauce 

1% cups boiling water J4 cup cocoa or grated choco- 

^ cup sugar late or 2 tablespoons cara- 

3 tablespoons flour mel, made as above 

Mix dry ingredients together and add cold water to 
moisten, pour on boiling water, stirring constantly, and boil 
five minutes. Nutmeg Sauce. 

Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add i table- 
spoonful oleomargarine and % teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

Lemon Sauce 
Make as above, leaving out the cocoa. Add 2 table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice after it is off the fire. 

Spice Cake 

2 cups flour I egg 

I cup brown sugar yi teaspoon soda 

J^ cup melted drippings 1]^ teaspoons baking powder 

Yz cup sour milk i teaspoon cinnamon 

Yz each teaspoon allspice and cloves 
Mix egg, sugar, drippings and sour milk. Add flour 
mixed and sifted with spices, soda and baking powder; 
mix well; bake in shallow, well-greased pan. If no 
sour milk is to be had use sweet milk or water, leave out 
soda and use 4 teaspoons baking powder. Other spices may 
be used instead of those named. For chocolate cake add 
J4 cup cocoa. 

Quick Cup Cakes (Lightning Cake). 
Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
ij4 cups of flour, 54 cup of fine granulated or brown 
sugar, 3 level teaspoons of baking powder, J4 teaspoon of 
salt. Sift in the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt 54 cup oleo or crisco or lard, 
break in i or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add J4 
teaspoon flavoring extract or J4 teaspoon of spice. Mix 
with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For Chocolate Cake add 3 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 



DESSERTS AND SWEETS 57 

Oat Meal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 3 teaspoons baking powder 

^ cup flour 3 tablespoons oleo or drippings 

I Clip sugar l pinch salt 

1 egg 4 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten egg and milk. Add more 
milk if necessary to moisten ingredients ; drop by teaspoon- 
fuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

Bran Cookies 

Beat I egg well, add to it J4 cup melted fat, % cup brown 
sugar, J4 cup milk, and J4 cup molasses. Sift into this i J4 
cups white flour to which has been added yi teaspoonful 
soda, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and J4 teaspoonful 
salt. Beat well, then add 1^4 cups bran and i cup rai3ins 
chopped. Mix well and drop from the tip of a spoon onto 
greased pans. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Ginger Bread 

2 cups flour I teaspoon ginger 
^ cup sugar yi cup molasses 

54 cup hot water 2 teaspoons bakiAg powder 

5 tablespoons melted drip- ^ teaspoon soda 

pings H teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to th^ molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour I cup finely chopped suet 

2 cups breadcrumbs i cup sugar 

I cup milk or water ^ teaspopn salt 

grating of nutmeg 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, and 
set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an hour. 

For boiling tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 2j4 to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way 
tiiat a cake or pudding is baked. 



S8 LOW COST COOKING 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces or as a cake without 
sauce. One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pud- 
ding, or a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be 
added to give variety. 

Caramel Junket 

I quart milk i to 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 junket tablet, dissolved in i tablespoon lukewarm water 

Junket tablets are bought at a drug store for lo cents a 
package. When added to milk junket causes it to become 
solid and it is then more easily digested. Directions must 
be very carefully followed. It is very useful for invalids 
and children. 

Brown i tablespoonful of sugar in a hot stewpan. Add 
the milk and leave on fire until sugar is all dissolved. Add 
more sugar if desired, and cool until lukewarm. Add the 
dissolved junket tablet, stir, pour mixture into dessert 
dishes and let stand until it jellies. Serve very cold. 

Lemon Jelly 

^ box gelatin % cup lemon juice 

^ cup sugar Speck of salt 

Soak gelatin in a little cold water, pour on boiling water 
to dissolve it, add sugar and lemon juice and make up to i 
pint with cold water. Strain, set in cool place to harden. 

Orange and other fruit jellies made in the same way. 

CANDY 

A small amount of candy is useful in feeding children. 
>Vhen made at home by simple recipes, candy is one of our 
cheapest foods. It should be given children after meals 

^^y- Caramel Cream Candy 

2 cups sugar lyi cups water 
Heat }i cup sugar in hot stew pan until it melts and 

turns a medium brown. Add remaining sugar and water 
and boil slowly so that it will be at least 30 minutes before 
it is done. Test by dropping yi teaspoonful into a cup of 
very cold water. When it is cooked enough the syrup will 
harden in the water until it can be rolled by the fingers into 
a firm ball. It should not be hard enough to be brittle. 
Set aside to cool, and begin to beat when lukewarm. It will 
become lighter in color, and as soon as it begins to grain 
very slightly pour into a buttered plate and cut into squares. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 59 

Brittle 

Brittle IS made from melted sugar. It may be combined 
with nuts and made into peanut brittle, walnut brittle, etc., 
or left plain. 

Place the amount of sugar to be used in a stewpan or 
frying pan, and melt over a low fire. Stir frequently and 
watch constantly or the sugar will brown too much while 
melting. It should be a very light brown when done. To 
cool, turn a tin pie pan upside down and pour the melted 
sugar on this. Scour the bottom of the pan before using 
and do not pour on enough to allow it to run over the 
sides. The nuts, if used, are added just before pouring 
out. They may be chopped fine or used whole. As soon 
as the candy is cool it may be easily broken loose from the 
pan by striking the inside of the pan. 

The brittle may be made light if desired by adding Yz 
teaspoonf ul soda to the candy made from 3 cups sugar. Sift 
it in and shake pan well to mix, then pour out quickly. 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

Frozen desserts are useful in very hot weather and may 
be made at home instead of allowing children to buy cheap 
ice cream cones which are often unclean and unwholesome. 

Ice Cream 

I quart milk i cup sugar 

4 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons caramel or 

I ^%% browned sugar 

y^ teaspoon salt 

Mix sugar and flour, add 2 cups milk and boil. Remove 
from fire, add ^gg, well beaten, stir and allow mixture to 
stand 10 minutes to cook the t,gg. Add other ingredients, 
cool and freeze. Fruit Ice 

4 cups water 2 cups sugar 

y^ cup fruit juice (lemon, orange, plum, grape, etc., or a 

mixture of several) 

Boil sugar and water for 10 minutes. Cool, add fruit 
juice and freeze. 

To Freeze. Place the mixture to be frozen in a granite 
pail with a lid. The ice cream may be frozen in a good tin 
pail or in a baking powder can. Place the pail or can in a 
larger vessel with layer of chopped ice wider inside pail, 
then pack space between pails with chopped ice mixed with 
coarse salt. Use i cup salt to 3 cups ice. Turn inner pail 



6o LOW COST COOKING 

constantly until mixture begins to freeze, then scrape from 
sides of pail, turn again, scrape, and so on until thick. 

Children love to do the freezing and three pails or cans of 
ice cream can be frozen at once in a dishpan half full of 
cracked ice. 

PRESERVES, JELLIES AND MARMALADES 

A combination of fruit and sugar, boiled until the fruit 
is cooked and the product is sweet and thick, is a useful 
food, and fairly economical when the fruit can be secured 
at the low price it can often be bought for during the height 
of the season. In jam and marmalade the whole of the 
fruit is used and they are for that reason more economical 
than jelly, which uses only the juice. The two methods may 
be combined sometimes, jam or marmalade being made from 
the pulp of the fruit after part of the juice has been drained 
off for jelly. 

Jams, Butters and Marmalades 

Cook fruit until soft with as little water as possible. 
Remove seeds by running through a colander, add ^ to i 
cup sugar to each cup of fruit and boil until the desired 
thickness is reached. Jams and butters are made thick 
enough to drop from the spoon, while marmalade is a little 
thinner. They may be made of plums, peaches, apples, 
grapes, berries of all kinds, tomatoes and many other fruits. 

Preserves 

Wash small fruit such as plums and berries and use 
whole. Large fruits such as peaches and pears should be 
pared and cut into pieces. Add J4 to ^ cups of sugar to 
each cup of raw fruit and cook until the desired thickness 
is reached. All of the fruits named above may be used for 
preserves. Jellies 

In order to make good jelly a fruit must contain both 
acid and a substance called pectin. Some of the fruits good 
for jelly are currants, sour apples, crabapples, under-ripe 
grapes and plums. Peaches, pears, sweet apples and quinces 
alone will not make jelly as they do not contain enough 
acid. 

Extract the juice of the fruit by boiling; drain off the 
juice, strain it and add i cup sugar to each cup of juice. 
Boil 5 min^ites for each cup of juice used, at the end of 



PRESERVES 6l 

which time it will usually be found to be done. The inex- 
perienced cook should test it by setting a small part aside 
to cool. This time rule will not hold if more than 3 cups 
of juice are boiled at once. It is better, however, to boil 
the jelly a little at a time, as large quantities require long 
boiling, which darkens the jelly. Skim off the dark froth 
which rises to the top with boiling. 

Sealing Jams and Preserves. The jam or preserves 
should be poured boiling hot into hot jars or glasses which 
have lain in boiling water for at least 3 minutes. A con- 
venient method for sealing the top is to pour over it when 
cold a layer of melted paraffine. When the fruit is used 
wash the sheet of paraffine and keep it for use again. 

Apple Jelly 
Wash apples well and cut into small pieces. Apple par- 
ings and cores alone may be used as these contain more 
pectin than the rest of the apple. Cook until apples are 
well softened using as little water as possible. Put into a 
clean bag made of thin cloth, such as flour or sugar sack and 
drain until as much juice as possible is out. Put 3 cups 
juice into stew pan with 3 cups of sugar, boil 15 minutes. 
Test by putting a few drops on cold plate and if necessary 

boil longer. Rhubarb and Fig Preserves 

4 pounds rhubarb i pound figs 

3 pounds sugar 

Cut rhubarb and figs into i inch pieces, add sugar and 

let it stand over night. In the morning let it cook slowly 

one hour, until figs are tender. Stir occasionally. 

Date and Prune Jam 

I pound prunes juice from J4 lemon 

I pound dates % cup sugar 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, stoned and 

cooked, lemon juice and sugar. Cook mixture until thick. 

In the same way prunes may be combined with figs, and 

figs with dates. Sugar may be omitted. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

3^ pounds rhubarb 2 lemons 

3 pounds sugar 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into half-inch pieces. With a sharp knife 

pare oflf very thin the colored part of the lemon and orange, 



62 LOW COST COOKING 

cut it into small pieces and add to the rhubarb. Remove 
peel of the oranges and lemons, divide them into sections, 
remove seeds and add to mixture. Boil a half hour, add 
sugar and boil very slowly ij^ hours longer. 

APPETIZERS 

Pickles, catsups, etc., have little food value, but are useful 
to a certain extent as appetizers. They should not be used 
at all for children under 7 years of age and very sparingly 
for older children. They are hard for the delicate stom- 
achs of children to digest and spoil the appetite for the 
simple foods they should be taught to eat. The abnormal 
craving for appetizers is either the result of habit or is 
caused by the diet containing too little fruit and vegetables. 
It is much better to satisfy the appetite by adding more of 
these than by using pickles, etc., in large quantities. 

Sour Cucumbers 

6 large cucumbers J4 cup vinegar 

^ cup sugar spices 

Pare the cucumbers and cut the long way into eighths. 
Cover with hot salted water and cook until tender. Pour 
off water, add vinegar and sugar and enough water to 
cover. Tie i teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon 
in a thin white cloth and drop into the kettle ; simmer J4 
hour. The largest cucumbers that come into the market 
are best for this, which is more easily digested than pickles. 

Tomato Catsup 

y^ peck ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

I tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons mace 

J4 cup sugar i teaspoon cayenne 

I cup vinegar pepper 

Scald tomatoes and remove skins. Add other ingre- 
dients and boil slowly until reduced one-half, then pass 
through sieve. Reheat and put into clean jars or bottles 
that have lain five minutes in boiling water. Seal tightly. 

Watermelon Rind Pickles 

Remove all the pink pulp and thin green skin from the 
rind and cut into cubes or strips. Cover with salt and 
water and boil one-half hour. Drain off the water, make 
enough syrup to cover, using i cup water and J4 c^P sugar 



BEVERAGES 63 

to each cup of vinegar. Let the mixture boil, add whole 
cloves for seasoning and pour over the rind. Boil until 
rind is tender. 

BEVERAGES 

When well made, coffee and tea are suitable drinks for 
adults, but are always harmful to children. They are stim- 
ulants only and contain no food excfept what is given them 
by the sugar and milk added. 

Coffee 

One of the most important things about making good 
coffee is the care of the coffee pot. Coffee should never 
be used after it has stood on the grounds for an hour or 
more. Always make just enough for the meal and after- 
wards empty the pot, wash, dry and leave open to air 
until next used. If anjr coffee is left over, however, it may 
be kept good by draining from the grounds and keeping it 
in a covered vessel. It may then be used cold or reheated. 
Cold coffee is very refreshing in hot weather. 

Proportions. 2 level (one rounded) tablespoonfuls cof- 
fee makes a strong cup of coffee; ij^ level tablespoonful 
makes medium strong and i level tablespoonful makes weak 
coffee. See page 67 for recipe and directions. 

Tea 

Have teapot hot when tea is put in. Use i teaspoon tea 
to each cup for strong tea, or as much less as is liked. Pour 
water into the pot just as soon as it has boiled. 

Drinks for Children 

Milk or buttermilk is, of course, the best drink for chil- 
dren. If a hot drink is desired, cocoa, cambric or cinnamon 
tea, toast tea or cereal drinks may be given. 

Cocoa 

4 teaspoons cocoa 4 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups water % teaspoon flour 

2 cups milk I pinch salt 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add enough cold water to 
dissolve and add remaining water and boil for 5 minutes 



64 LOW COST COOKING 

or longer. Add milk and heat, but do not allow it to boil 
after the milk is added. Before serving beat with an egg 
beater until it froths* This will prevent a scum from form- 
ing on the top. 

Cambric or Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups milk % teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups boiling water 3 teaspoons sugar 

Serve hot. 

Toast Tea 

I cup toasted breadcrumbs 4 cups water 

Add boiling water to the toasted bread crumbs. Serve 
with sugar and milk as desired. 

Cereal Drinks 

Several cereal drinks, such as Postum, are on the market, 
but are rather expensive. Directions for making comes on 
the package. 

An economical cereal drink may be made by toasting 
barley, wheat, rye or other grains, grinding them in the 
coffee mill and boiling until the water is well colored. 
Serve with sugar and milk as desired. 

Simimer Drinks 

Any fruit juice left from stewed or canned fruit can 
be used in making fruit drinks for summer, as well as 
lemon and orange juice. These are both refreshing and 
healthful. 

Cocoa Shells 

I cup shells 6 cups water 

Boil slowly 2 hours, strain and serve with milk and sugar. 



MENUS 

The menus in the following pages are given as samples of 
meals which furnish the food necessary to keep the body 
in health at the least possible cost. If the buying is care- 
fully done and the cooking all done at home these meals 
may be served for the amount of money indicated or even 
less by unusually careful buying. If uie buying is care- 
lessly done, however, or if any of the foods are bought 
ready cooked they may easily cost twice as much. 

Only the cheapest materials for furnishing each kind of 
food needed are used. For furnishing energy, cereals, in- 
cluding breadstuffs and fats of meat, bacon strips, suet, 
salad oils and oleomargarine are used. 

For furnishing protein the cheap cuts of meat, cheese and 
legumes are used for adults, milk and eggs for small chil- 
dren. 

For furnishing the mineral the cheapest fresh vegetables 
and fruits of each season are used. In winter dried fruits, 
root vegetables and canned tomatoes are chiefly used for 
this purpose. 

With only these materials to use it is hard to keep the 
bill of fare from becoming monotonous, and monotony is a 
destroyer of appetite. The menus therefore are planned 
to give as many diflFerent ways of preparing these food 
materials as possible and of new combinations. For this 
reason the same dish is seldom given twice, although of 
course a dish that is liked may be repeated several times 
per week without becoming tiresome. 

For the same reason the dishes in most common use, such 
as meat soups and stews, although excellent, are seldom 
used in these menus. Most housekeepers are familiar with 
them, use them largely and do not need to be reminded of 
them. 

Recipes give quantities suitable for serving families of 
si^ with two adults, of seven with one. 

6S 



. 



WINTER MEALS 

BREAKFAST 
Monday 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES WITH CARAMEL SYRUP 

FRIED BACON STRIP 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS, MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Com Meal Griddle Cakes 

2 cups cornmeal iH cups liquid, milk and 

1 cup flour water mixed 

2 tablespoons melted drip- 6 teaspoons baking powder 
pings iH teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add liquid and mix quickly. 
Have ready a hot greased griddle or frying pan, drop the 
mixture in by tablespoonfuls, as many as the pan will hold 
without their touching. Cook on slow fire until the cakes 
are brown on the lower side and the bubbles burst in the 
top; turn each cake to brown on the other side. Cook in 
this way until the batter is all used. Serve hot. 

"Drippings** 

By drippings is meant the fat from roasting, frying or 
boiling meat, fat trimmings, etc. Every bit of fat coming 
into the house shotdd be saved and used. 

When more fat is needed the soft flank fat of beef or 
pork, which sells for about lo cents a pound, may be used. 
Cut the fat into small pieces, removing any skin and bits 
of meat. Cover with cold salted water and let stand for 
4 or 5 hours or over night. This improves keeping qualities 
and flavor. Soak again if there is time. Now melt the 
fat slowly in the oven or over boiling water and cook 
until the scraps are crisp but not brown. Strain into clean 
pails, cans or jars which can be covered. Keep in a cool 
place. Use like lard, Crisco, etc., which costs about 5 cents 
a pound more. When using in recipes calling for butter, 
add more salt and take a little less because butter contains 
salt and is one-eighth water. 

Strongly flavored fats from bacon, ham and sausage 

66 



WINTER MEALS 67 

should be kept separate and used for hashes or warming 
over potatoes. Caramel Syrup 

2 cups sugar J4 cup water 

Put sugar and water in stewing pan, boil the syrup, stir- 
ring occasionally until it turns a light brown. Add i cup 
boiling water, and boil until of thickness desired. 

Fried Bacon Strips 

Cut thin slices of bacon from the strip. Remove skin and 
rind, lay the slices in a cold frying pan, cook until crisp and 
brown, turning as necessary. 

Bacon strips are the odd-shaped pieces of bacon cut from the side 
in the process of trimming. It sells for 14 to 22 cents per pound in 
pieces weighing 4 to 8 pounds. 

Coffee 

^ cup ground coffee 2 cups (i pint) boiling water 

Moisten coffee with cold water ; add to boiling water and 
' boil from one to three minutes. Keep hot without boiling 
for ten minutes longer. Add 2 tablespoons of cold water 
to settle the grounds and it is ready to serve. 

If a crushed egg-shell is added to the ground coffee with 
the cold water when making it will settle more easily and 
surely. Do not allow the coffee to stand on the grounds; 
if not served at once, pour off and keep hot. See that the 
coffee pot is well washed and aired. Ground coffee loses 
flavor and strength, and if possible it is best to grind the 
coffee in a small hand mill just before making. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water to boil for coffee; set table except for the 
plates, which should be heated in some convenient way. Cut 
and prepare bacon. Make coffee if water has boiled. Meas- 
ure out ingredients for griddle cakes, mix them and start 
cooking, placing the cakes as they are done on a plate over 
a pan of boiling water. When the cakes are half done 
fry the bacon attending to both at the same time. The hot 
drippings from the bacon may be used with the cakes. 

Wash the top of the milk bottle, remove stopper and 
pour off the top of the milk for coffee; put the rest in 
glasses for the children. Serve the cakes on the hot plates, 
settle and pour the coffee. 



68 LOW COST COOKING 

Monday L^NCH OR SUPPER 

RICE WITH TOMATOES AND CHEESE 

BREAD AND OLEO 

TEA FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rice with Tomatoes and Cheese 

I cup rice 2-inch cube of cheese 

5^ can tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

Wash the rice, sift it slowly into about 5 cups of boiling, 
salted water. Boil 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally 
with a fork. When done evaporate the water by leaving it 
partly covered on a low fire. Add the tomatoes and pepper 
and boil. Pour into vegetable dish, and grate the cheese 
over the top. 

Tea 
lyi teaspoonful tea 2 cups boiling water 

Put the tea into a hot teapot, and pour the water freshly 
boiled over it. Steep i to 3 minutes, never longer. Do not 
make the tea until ready to serve it, for tea becomes bitter 
and harmful if allowed to stand on the leaves. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the rice a half hour before meal time. While it is 
cooking, set the table and put on the water for the tea. 
Finish the rice and make the tea. 

Monday ^^^^^ 

MEAT SOUP WITH CEREAL AND VEGETABLES 

TOASTED BREAD 

DRIED APPLE COBBLER 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Meat Soup with Cereal and Vegetables 

2j4 pounds soup beef 2 tablespoons celery leaves or 

1 cup barley, rice or parsley 

macaroni 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 tablespoons onion 2 cups carrot or celery root 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Choose shank, shoulder bone or neck bones, or any cheap 
cuts of beef, part lean and part bone. A piece which is ^ 
lean meat, the rest bone with a little fat, is best for soups. 



WINTER MEALS 69 

Wipe the meat clean with a cloth, wet with cold water, 
remove the fat if there is too much. Try it out in 
the oven and use as drippings. Do not allow the soup 
to be so greasy as to spoil the digestion of a child. Cover 
the meat (cut in rather small pieces) with cold water and 
allow it to cook slowly, but not boil, for from 6 to 10 
hours. Add barley 2 hours before meal time. Wash and 
pare the vegetables, cut them in J^ inch cubes, and add i 
hour before meal time. Mince onion and celery leaves fine 
and add with the vegetables. 

Dried Apple Cobbler 

i^ cups dried apples i teaspoon cinnamon or nutmeg 

% cup sugar 

Wash dried apples very carefully, soak 6 hours, or over 
night, cook slowly in same water until tender. Add sugar 
and place in baking dish. Sprinkle more sugar and cinna- 
mon or nut meg over top. Cover with the crust made as 
below, bake until brown in a moderately hot oven. Serve 
hot. Use fresh apples instead of dried when they are as 
cheap. Crust for Cobbler 

1 cup flour iH tablespoons fat 
H cup milk or water 54 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift flour with salt and baking powder, rub the 
fat into the flour with the finger tips, add milk and mix 
with a knife. Turn the dough on a floured board, and roll 
or pat to the thickness of % inch. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash apples and put to soak the night before. Start the 
meat to cook for soup immediately after breakfast, and 
let it simmer on back of range all day. About two hours 
before dinner time add the barley to the soup, and put 
the dried apples on to cook. Prepare the vegetables and 
add them to the soup; J4 hour before meal time make 
pie crust and put pie in oven. Put bread in oven to toast ; 
make coffee and set table. 

Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OAT MEAL MUSH WITH DATES SERVED WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST 
COCOA FOR CHILDREN — COFFEE FOR ADULTS 



70 LOW COST COOKING 

Oat Meal Mush with Dates 

i}4 cups oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

I teaspoon salt 

Sift oat meal slowly into boiling water, stirring constantly, 
boil three minutes, then cover closely and set pan in a larger 
vessel containing boiling water. Continue cooking i or 2 
hours longer. If placed the evening before in a fireless 
cooker it will be done in the morning, or it may cook over 
night on the back of a coal range where it can remain hot. 
Fifteen minutes before serving add the dates, washed, 
stoned and cut in halves. 

Toast 

Slice stale bread J^ to ^ inch thick, lay in oven until 
brown, or brown over coals. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start oat meal cooking the night before. In the morning 
put it on to reheat, add dates, and make the coffee. Make 
toast ; set table. Pour off top part of the milk for cereal 
and coffee. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Tuesday 

CREAMED CARROTS 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 

TEA FOR ADULTS 

Creamed Carrots 

Two pints of carrots, 3 cups of white sauce. Wash and 
pare carrots, cut into pieces J^ inch thick, J4 iiich square. 
Cover with boiling water. Add 2 teaspoons of salt and cook 
until tender. Remove cover from pan, evaporate the water, 
and add the white sauce, made separately ; or, more simply, 
rub together 4 tablespoons of flour and 3 of drippings with 
J4 cup of water and 2j^ cups of milk ; add to cooked carrots 
and boil. 

White Sauce 

3 cups milk or milk and 3 tablespoons dripping or oleo 
water, mixed i}4 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons flour 

Stir the flour in hot drippings or oleo, add milk gradually, 
boil, stirring constantly until smooth and thick. 



WINTER MEALS 



71 



Toast J^ ^ ^..^lew. ^M^yft ,^4^ 
HifM'^^ I cup toast crumbs ^ \ cups boiling water 

^y£^ -Rell- toast left from breakfast^ with a roU iiife ' piii, add 

boiling water to the crumbs, stir until partly dissolved . 

Serve hot with sugar and milk. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash and pare carrots and put them on to cook ^ hour 
before meal time; prepare toast crumbs; set table; add 
dressing to carrots ; make toast tea and tea. 

Tuesday DINNER 

NAVY BEANS WITH SHANK OF SALT PORK 

TOMATO CATSUP 
CORN BREAD STEWED APRICOTS AND PEACHES 

COFFEE MILK 

Beans Boiled with Meat 

3 cups navy beans 2 pounds shank salt pork 

Pick over and wash the beans ; wash meat carefully and 
remove skin and part of fat. (This fat can be fried out 
by cutting up and heating in a dish in the oven and used for 
drippings.) Add meat to the beans, cover well with boiUng 
water, cook slowly 4 or 5 hours, adding more water if nec- 
essary until both meat and beans are tender. This may be 
done in a fireless cooker. 

There will be enough beans left from this amount for 
lunch on the following day. 

Southern Com Bread 

3 cups com meal (prefer- i teaspoon salt 

ably white) i egg 

i^ cup thick sourmilk 3 tablespoons melted drippings 
^ teaspoon cooking soda 

Beat egg in mixing bowl, add milk, sift in meal with soda 
and salt, and add melted fat. Beat quickly until well 
mixed, pour into hot, well-greased pan and bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven. Cut in squares and serve hot. Egg may 
be omitted. 

If sweetened com bread is preferred, use yellow corn 
meal and add 3 tablespoons sugar. 

Flour may be used in place of one of the cups of corn 
meal. 



J2 LOW COST COOKING 

Dried Apricots and Peaches 

^ pound apricots K pound peaches 

Wash the fruit, soak over night in cold water, cook slowly 
in same water until tender. Add sugar to taste, about J^ 
cup. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start beans and meat cooking while lunch is being pre- 
pared. Let dried fruit be cooking at the same time, and 
set aside to cool when done. Half an hour before meal time 
make com bread and put in to bake. Twenty minutes be- 
fore meal time make the coflFee, set the table, then serve 
the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

FRIED BACON STRIP TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Mush 

i^ cups graham flour 4 cups boiling water 

I cup cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix the flour with the cold water to prevent it from 
lumping when added to the boiling water. Pour this mix- 
ture into the boiling salted water, stirring all the while. 
Boil 5 minutes, set in a larger pan of boiling water and 
continue cooking J^ to i hour ; or leave closely covered over 
night on the back of the stove, or in a fireless cooker. 

Preparing the Mesd 

The graham mush should be started the night before. 
About ^ hour before breakfast time put it on to reheat. 
Make coffee, set the table, fry bacon and make the toast. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Wednesday 

BEAN POLENTA 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

HOT STEWED DRIED APPLES 

TEA FOR ADULTS — CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 



WINTER MEALS 73 

Bean Polenta 

4 cups white beans (cooked) %. teaspoon mustard 
i^ tablespoons molasses % teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons vinegar 

Drain the water from cold boiled beans, mash them fine, 
and mix with the other ingredients. Form the mixture into 
cakes and brown on both sides in hot greased pan. 

Cinnamon Tea 

2 cups scalded milk 3 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups boiling water % teaspoon cinnamon 

Add the boiling water to the scalded milk and sugar just 

before serving. Sprinkle the cinnamon over the top. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash the dried apples and put them to soak the night 
before. About an hour before meal time put them on to 
cook in the same water. One-half hour before meal time 
make the polenta, using the beans left from dinner the day 
before, and put the cakes on to brown. While they are 
browning put the milk on to heat for the cinnamon tea and 
set the table. When the polenta is done make the tea and 
the cinnamon tea. 
Wednesday DINNER 

STEW WITH VEGETABLES 

BREAD 

SUET PUDDING 

Stew with Vegetables 

I^ to 2 pounds stew meat i onion 

2 carrots 2 sprigs parsley 

2 turnips i tablespoon salt 

4 to 6 potatoes J4 teaspoon pepper 

Neck or breast of lamb or veal or inexpensive cuts of 
beef may be used. Have the butcher cut the pieces of meat 
rather small. Put them into the kettle in which the stew is 
to be cooked and place over a hot fire, stirring occasionally 
until the outside is well browned. Cover with hot water 
and cook slowly, without boiling, until the meat is tender. 
Add the vegetables pared and cut into pieces, during the 
last hour of cooking. Thicken the gravy with two table- 
spoons of flour, mixed with a little cold water, just before 
serving. 



74 LOW COST COOKING 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups bread crumbs % teaspoon salt 

I cup finely chopped suet Grating of nutmeg 
I cup sugar i cup milk or water 

Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients, 
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either 
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but- 
tered pan, or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid, 
and set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an 
hour. 

For boiling, tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil 
from 2j4 to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way as 
cake. 

Serve with any of the pudding sauces, or as a cake with- 
out sauce. 

One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pudding, or 
a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be added 
to give variety. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 hours before meal time put the meat for the 
stew on to cook; add the vegetables to the stew, make 
the suet pudding; while it is cooking, make the coffee and 
set the table. Serve the stew on a large platter with the 
meat piled in the center and the pieces of vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. Serve the pudding, like cake, cut in 
squares without sauce. 

Extra Baking 
Just before starting lunch mix the bread and set it to 
rise. It will be ready for the second kneading after lunch 
is over. Make rolls from part of the bread dough. 

White Yeast Bread 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

1 quart hot water 2 yeast cakes stirred into ^ cup 

2 tablespoons sugar of lukewarm water 
2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add 
the hot water. When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and 
about 5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining 
flour and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and 
knead until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased 



WINTER MEALS 75 

pan, greasing the top of the dough and cover with clean 
cloth. Place where it will keep at a warm, even tempera- 
ture. When the dough has raised to double its size, which 
will be in about ij^ hours, knead it again, form into loaves, 
grease the outside of the loaves and place them in a baking 
pan. Let the dough rise until it is again double its size, 
which it should do in about one hour, and bake for one 
hour in a moderately hot oven. 

The temperature at which bread dough is kept is one of 
the most important things about bread making. Yeast is a 
plant, and too much heat will kill it, while a low tempera- 
ture will keep it from growing and forming the gas bubbles 
which make the bread light. Bread must be baked thor- 
oughly in order to be wholesome. For this reason it is best 
not to make the loaves much, if any, larger than the common 
bakers' loaf, which weighs 12 ounces. This recipe will make 
eight such loaves. 

When the loaves are done place them sidewise on a rack 
or table, so that the air will circulate freely around them. 
If a soft crust is desired, cover the bread while cooling. 
When perfectly cold, place in a jar or tin box. 

Rye Bread 

3 cups white flour 2 cups hot water 

3 cups rye flour 2 tablespoons lard or other fat 

yi cup sugar or molasses i tablespoon salt 

I yeast cake dissolved in % cup lukewarm water 

Follow the directions for mixing, kneading and baking 
given for white bread. If caraway seeds are desired add one 
teaspoonful while kneading the second time. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

Roll bread dough to J4 inch thick at second kneading; 
spread with fat and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, roll 
into a long roll, cut into j4 inch slices ; grease these on the 
outside, place in baking pan. When they have risen to twice 
their size, bake. 

Prune Rolls 

At the second kneading roll a layer of bread dough to 
the thickness of J4 inch and spread with a J4 inch layer of 
the mashed pulp of stewed prunes, cut into strips about 3 



76 LOW COST COOKING 

inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold the dough so that there 
will be a layer of prunes between two layers of dough, grease 
the outside, place in a greased pan, allow them to rise to 
twice their size, bake. 

Coffee Cake 

I cup hot milk H cup sugar 

yi cup lard i teaspoon salt 

H yeast cake dissolved in J4 cup lukewarm water 

Add hot milk with lard and salt; when lukewarm, add 
dissolved yeast, flour enough to make the stiff batter — about 
three cups — cover dish and let the batter rise, then spread in 
a well greased pan, sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise, 
bake. If raisins are desired add J4 cup just before putting 
into baking pan. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday 

RYE MUFFINS 

FRIED SALT PORK WITH MILK GRAVY 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Rye Muffins 

i^ cups rye flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

iH cups white flour 6 teaspoons baking powder 

i^ teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons drippings 
iH cup milk or water 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add liquid and melted dry- 
pings and beat. Put quickly into heated, greased muffin 
pan and bake about 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Fried Salt Pork with Milk Gravy 
Cut the pork in very thin slices and fry in a hot pan until 
crisp and brown. Take out pork, pour off all but 3 table- 
spoons of the drippings, and into this rub 2 tablespoons 
flour. Add i cup of water slowly, boil well, add a cup 
of milk. Cut the fried pork in J^ inch pieces and mix with 
the gravy. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put water on to boil for coffee ; make the muffins. While 
they are baking make the coffee, set the table, fry the pork 
and make the gravy. 



WINTER MEALS ^^ 

Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

PUREE (thick soup) OF LIMA BEANS 

TOASTED MUFFINS 

BAKED BANANA 

TEA FOR ADULTS— MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Pure6 of Lima Beans 

4 cups cooked lima beans 2 slices fat pork 
2 cups water i tablespoon flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

For additional flavoring, if desired, use i tablespoon each 
of onion, parsley or celery, chopped fine. Fry pork until 
crisp and brown, break or cut it into small bits, stir the flour 
into the drippings and pork, and if onion or celery is used 
add this at the same time and cook for a few minutes. Add 
water and boil, mash the beans fine, and add them. If the 
whole is too thick, add more water. The soup may be made 
' more nutritious by using milk instead of water. 

Baked Banana 

Baked banana is more easily digested than raw. Peel 
the bananas, cut lengthwise into halves, place in baking pan, 
sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven for about 15 minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

The lemon juice may be omitted and the bananas served 
with milk and sugar. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash and soak beans over night, put on to cook at 
breakfast time and cook slowly until tender. Twenty min- 
utes before meal time, put muffins left over from breakfast, 
and any other scraps of bread, in the oven to toast. Pre- 
pare bananas and put in to bake. Make the soup, set the 
table, and make the tea. 

Thursday DINNER 

FLANK STEAK BRAISED WITH VEGETABLES 

BROWNED PARSNIPS 

STEWED FIGS 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Flank Steak Braised with Vegetables 
Have the butcher score the steak when it is bought, or, 
better still, beat it well with a hammer. Dredge well with 



^ UOW COST COOKING 

flour and lay in baking pan. Over it place a thick layer of 
thinly sliced raw potatoes, then a layer of thinly sliced 
onion. Pour over this 2 cups of stewed tomatoes, cover 
closely and cook slowly in oven 2j4 to 3 hours. One-half 
hour before the meat is done, remove the cover. Add 
water as necessary, and leave it to cook uncovered. In 
serving, place it whole on a platter and cut down as through 
a loaf. 

Browned Parsnips 

Pare parsnips, cut in halves, and cook in boiling, salted 
water until tender. Cut lengthwise into slices J4 inch thick, 
brown in a hot, greased pan, or in the oven with baking 
meat. They may be served plain boiled and if any are 
left over they may be browned at the next serving. 

Stewed Figs 

Use dried figs that are not pressed. They are usually sold 
for cooking at 10 to 12 cents per pound. Wash carefully 
and soak over night, or for several hours. Cook slowly in 
the same water until tender. Add sugar if desired. 

Preparing the Meal 

After breakfast wash j4 pound cooking figs and put to 
soak. Three hours before meal time prepare the steak and 
put it in to bake ; i J4 hours before prepare the parsnips and 
start them to boil, and put figs on to cook ; J^ hour before 
lay the parsnips cut in slices in the pan to brown. Make 
the coflFee, set the table. 

The parsnips might be omitted from this dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday 

FRIED HOMINY MUSH WITH BROWN SUGAR SYRUP 

TOAST 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Hominy Mush 

Pour one part hominy slowly into four parts boiling, 
salted water, stir till it thickens and then cook slowly in a 
double boiler for 3 hours or more, or over night in a fire- 
less cooker. 

Pour boiled hominy into a deep, greased pan until it is 



WINTER MEALS 



79 



3 inches or more in depth. The next day turn the mixture 
out of the pan, slice in J4 inch slices and brown both sides 
in hot, greased pan. 

Brown Sugar Syrup 

Melt 2 cups of brown sugar with i cup hot water; boil 
5 minutes and cool. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start 2 cups of hominy to cook as a mush the day before 
while lunch is being prepared. Let it cook all afternoon 
and pour the part for breakfast into the pan and leave over- 
night in a cold place. Set the rest aside to bake with 
cheese on Saturday. The next morning make the coffee, 
start to fry the mush, and while it is cooking make the 
syrup and set the table. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Friday 

RICE SOUP WITH CROUTONS 
RICE AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Rice Soup 

3 cups rice water i tablespoon chopped onion 

2 cups carrots i tablespoon chopped celery 

2 tablespoons drippings. 1 tablespoon flour 

Scrape the carrots, cut in small pieces and cook until ten- 
der. Heat the drippings, add the onions and celery to it 
and cook them 5 minutes without browning. Stir in the 
flour, add this mixture to the carrots, add the rice water with 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread into small cubes or in strips 2 inches wide, 
54 inches thick, or in any fancy shapes desired. Dry in a 
slow oven until crisp and light brown all the way through. 

Rice and Com Meal Mufifins 

I cup cooked rice 5 teaspoons baking powder 

I cup flour il4 cups liquid I 

I teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons melted drippings 

I cup com meal 

Mix and sift dry ingredients together, add rice to liquid 

ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and put 



8o LOW COST COOKING 

quickly into hot, greased muffin pans. Bake about 20 min- 
utes in a moderately hot oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

A half hour before meal time put 2 cups of rice on to 
boil. Use the rice for the scalloped fish for dinner and 
for the muffins, and the rice water for the soup. Prepare 
the carrots and put them on to cook. Cut the croutons into 
54 inch cubes and put them in the oven to brown. Make the 
muffins and while they are baking, set the table. Finish 
the soup and serve with the croutons sprinkled over the 
top of each bowl. 

„ . • DINNER 

Friday 

SCALLOPED SALT FISH 

BOILED BEETS 

HOT GINGERBREAD 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Scalloped Salt Fish 

iH cups salt fish 2 cups thin white sauce 

3 cups boiled rice 

Shred the salt fish and soak in luke warm water for about 
an hour, or until the pieces are softened. Fill a baking 
dish with alternate layers of the fish and boiled rice which 
has been mixed with the white sauce. Cover with bread 
crumbs and bake until hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Gingerbread 

2 cups flour ^ cup molasses 

^ cup sugar yi cup hot water 

1 teaspoon ginger 3 tablespoons melted drip- 

2 teaspoons baking powder pings 

yi teaspoon soda H teaspoon salt 

Add the drippings and the hot water to the molasses. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients all together. Add the liquid 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a shallow, 
well greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Boiled Beets 

Wash the beets without breaking the skin and boil for 
3 hours or until tender. Drop in cold water and rub off 
the skins, slice, season with salt and oleo and serve hot. 



WINTER MEALS 8l 

Or the sliced beets may be soaked for an hour or two 
in weak vinegar and used as Pickled Beets. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the beets to cooking at breakfast time if wanted 
pickled, otherwise later. At J4 hour before meal time make 
the gingerbread, prepare the scalloped fish and put in oven. 
While these are baking make the coffee, skin and slice 
the beets and set the table. 

Saturday BREAKFAST 

CORN MEAX- MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

TOAST WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Com Meal Mush 

i^ cups com meal 6 cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Sift the com meal slowly into the boiling, salted water, 
stirring constantly to prevent it from lumping. After boil- 
ing ID minutes, place the kettle in a larger pan of boiling 
water or in a fireless codker to cook over night. 

Date and Prune Jam 

I pound prunes i pound dates 

Cook prunes, remove stones and add dates, cleaned and 
stoned. Cook mixture until thick. In the same way prunes 
may be combined with figs, and figs with dates ; add a little 
lemon juice for the flavor. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the jam the day before, while preparing lunch. 
Start the com meal to cooking the night before. In the 
morning set on stove to reheat J4 hour before breakfast 
time. Start the coffee, make the toast, set the table. Serve 
the mush in cereal bowls with sugar and the top half of 
the bottle of milk. 

Saturday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

HOMINY BAKED WITH CHEESE 

STEWED RAISINS 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA TOAST TEA FOR CHILDREN 



82 LOW COST COOKING 

Hominy Baked with Cheese 

Put alternate layers of boiled hominy and grated cheese 
in baking dish. Add enough milk, thin white sauce or 
water to moisten. Cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
hot through and crumbs are browned. 

Stewed Raisins 

Wash black, seedless raisins and soak over night. Cook 
slowly in the same water until tender. Add sugar if de- 
sired. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put raisins to soak the night before and cook during 
breakfast. One-half hour before lunch time prepare the 
hominy using that left from breakfast the day before and 
put in the oven to bake. While it is baking, set the table 
and make the tea. 

Saturday ^^^^^K 

CORN BEEF WITH VEGETABLES 

BAKED POTATOES 

APPLE SAUCE 

(COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Com Beef with Vegetables 

2 lbs. brisket of corn beef ^ lb. turnips 
^ lb. cabbage i lb. carrots 

% lb. rutabaga i onion 

Wipe the meat, cover with cold water and bring slowly 
to the boiling point. After boiling 5 minutes remove the 
scum and continue cooking just below the boiling point for 
about 3 hours. When the meat is tender, remove it and 
cook the vegetables in the water. Cut these in uniform size 
and cook them until tender. If small, the carrots may be 
cut in halves, if large in quarters, and other vegetables in 
similar size. Cabbage should be added about 10 minutes 
later than the others. Serve the meat on a large platter 
surrounded by the vegetables. Almost any other vegetables, 
beets, peas, etc., may be used instead of part of those named. 

Apple Sauce 

Wash 6 sour apples and cut into eighths with skins on. 
Remove core, and decayed spots. Cover with hot water and 



WINTER MEALS 83 

cook slowly until tender. Remove from fire and add about 
J4 cup sugar, or to taste. Serve either hot or cold, but not 
luke warm. 

Preparing the Meal 

Four or five hours before meal time put the meat on to 
cook ; I hour before wash 6 medium sized potatoes and lay 
them in the oven to bake. Wash and pare the vegetables, 
remove the meat from the kettle, laying it in the warming 
oven to keep warm. While the vegetables are cooking make 
the apple sauce and the coffee and set the table. 

If more convenient the potatoes may be pared and quar- 
tered and cooked with the other vegetables. 

Extra Baking 

Make bread in the morning so that it will be ready to bake 
late in the afternoon when the corned beef is cooking. After 
the dishes from the noon meal are washed, make and bake 
the oatmeal cookies for Sunday. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats 2 teaspoons baking powder 

H cup flour 2 tablespoons oleo 

I cup sugar i pinch of salt 

I egg 3 tablespoons milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg beaten, and milk. Drop by . 
teaspoonfuls into greased pan, bake in moderate oven. 

« . BREAKFAST 

Sunday 

GRAHAM BISCUITS WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM 

SCRAMBLED EGG 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS — COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Graham Biscuits 

i^ cups graham flour i cup liquid 

iH cups white flour 3 tablespoons lard or crisco 

i^ teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly 
through by cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly 
with the fingers. Add the liquid, mixing with a knife. 
Turn the mixture on floured bread board. Roll or pat to J4 
inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 15 to 20 minutes 
in a hot oven. 



84 LOW COST COOKING 

Scrambled Egg 

Beat 4 eggs light, add J4 teaspoon baking powder, i 
teaspoon salt, pepper to taste, and beat again. Boil J^ cup 
milk or milk and water mixed with i tablespoon flour in the 
frying pan. Cool a little and add the eggs. Stir the mix- 
ture constantly over a very low fire until the eggs are 
cooked but not tough. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the biscuits and leave them standing in the baking 
pan until about 20 minutes before time for breakfast. This 
may be done the night before in cold weather if each bis- 
cuit is brushed over with melted fat to prevent a crust 
from forming and the pan is closely covered to keep out 
dust and germs. Make the coffee, put the biscuits in oven 
and scramble the eggs. In serving the biscuits, take out 
only enough for once around, leaving the others in oven 
to keep hot. 

« , LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Sunday 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 
OATMEAL COOKIES BLACK OLIVES 

COCOA 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Place alternate layer of bread crumbs and canned or ripe 
tomatoes and seasoning of salt and pepper in baking dish 
with crumbs on top. If desired add an onion finely chopped 
to the tomatoes. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

One-half hour before meal time, prepare the tomatoes 
and put them in the oven. While they are heating make 
the cocoa and set the table. Serve the cookies made on 
Saturday. 

e , DINNER 

Sunday 

MEAT LOAF WITH BROWNED POTATOES 

CREAMED RUTABAGA CABBAGE SALAD 

BAKED APPLES WITH RAISINS 

COFFEE — MILK 



WINTER MEALS 85 

Meat Loaf 

1 pound chopped meat i cup thick white sauce 

2 cups breacf crumbs Flavor with salt and pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly together, form into loaf and 
bake in moderate oven for two hours. One tablespoon 
minced onion may be added if desired. 

Thick White Sauce 

I cup liquid 2 tablespoons drippings 

Syi tablespoons flour J4 tablespoon salt 

Add liquid slowly to flour, stirring to make a smooth 
paste. Pour into drippings and boil, stirring constantly 
until thick and smooth. 

Creamed Rutabaga 

Wash and pare the rutabaga and cut in pieces about J^ 
inch square and }4 inch long. Cook in boiling, salted water 
until tender. Evaporate the water by leaving kettle uncov- 
ered on fire. Add 3 cups of thin white sauce made sepa- 
rately, or stir 3 tablespoons of flour into 54 cup water and 
add this with 2}^ cups of milk and water to the vegetables 
and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

Cabbage Salad 

Shave the cabbage fine and add salt and pepper. Cut 
two thin slices of bacon into small pieces and fry till brown. 
While very hot pour over the cabbage. Add a little vinegar. 

Baked Apple with Raisins 

Remove the core from 6 medium sized apples. Put 
them in baking dish, fill the cavity with sugar and seedless 
raisins, add ^ cup water and bake in a moderate oven until 
the apples are soft. 

Preparing the Meal 

Two hours before meal time prepare the meat loaf and 
put in oven ; i hour before pare 6 medium sized potatoes 
cut in halves and lay in the pan with the meat. Prepare the 
apples and start them to baking. Put the rutabaga on and 
while it is cooking, make the cabbage salad and the coffee, 
set the table, finish the rutabaga. Serve the loaf whole with 
the potatoes arranged on the platter around it. 



SUMMER MEALS 



Monday BREAKFAST 

POTATO CAKES 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

COFFEE — MILK 

Potato Cakes 

Mix left over mashed potatoes with such scraps of meat, 
dressing and gravy as may be on hand. Add bread crumbs 
as necessary to make the mixture stiff enough to form into 
cakes. Brown cakes on both sides in hot greased pan. 

If no meat is on hand omit or use a little bacon or salt 
pork. 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Wash and peel 8 large stalks of rhubarb. Cut into J^ 
inch pieces, and add almost enough cold water to cover. 
Boil gently until the pieces are tender but still whole. Add 
sugar toi taste and set aside to cool. Part of this juice 
may be poured oflf to make a fruit drink and the remainder 
served with the sauce. 

There will be sauce enough for breakfast and to serve 
with rice for Tuesday's dinner. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make potato cakes and put them on to brown. Make 
enough coffee for dinner as well as for breakfast, and 
as soon as the last cup to be used hot is poured, pour the 
remainder off of the grounds and set aside to cool. This 
is to be used for iced coffee in the evening. Rhubarb 
sauce should be made the day before and served cold. Make 
the toast and set the table. 

Monday ^UNCH OR SUPPER 

RICE AND CHEESE RAREBIT ON TOAST 

APPLE SAUCE 

MILK FOR CHILDREN — ^TEA FOR ADULTS 

66 



SUMMER MEALS 87 

Rice and Cheese Rarebit 

^ cup of rice 2 tablespoons flour 

J4 cup of cheese i}^ teaspoons salt 

lyi cups of milk j4 teaspoon pepper 

Boil rice in plenty of water. When cooked tender add 

milk and the flour mixed with j4 c^P oi water. Allow 

this to boil, add salt and pepper, and when it again reaches 

boiling point, remove from the fire and add cheese chopped 

fine. Stir cheese through the hot mixture until it melts 

and serve on toast. 

Apple Sauce 

Wash and quarter 6 summer apples and remove cores. 
Cover with hot water and cook slowly until apples are 
tender, but do not lose shape. Add j^ cup sugar just 
before removing from fire. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the apple sauce just after the breakfast is over and 
set away to cool ; yi hour before meal time put the rice on 
to cook. Set the table, finish the rarebit and make the tea. 

Monday DINNER 

HAMBURGER STEAK WITH TOMATOES 

RICED POTATOES 

HASHED KOHLRABI 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

ICED COFFEE — MILK 

Hamburger Steak with Tomatoes 

ij4 pounds chopped beef Half can of tomatoes 

Put chopped meat into hot pan to brown, stirring con- 
stantly. When part of it is well browned, add tomatoes, 
cover closely and continue cooking on low fire until done. 
Use fresh tomatoes if cheaper. 

Riced Potatoes 

Press plain boiled potatoes, hot, through ricer, letting 
them fall into dish in which they will be served. A potato 
ricer is a great convenience and may be bought for from 
25 cents to 50 cents. 

Hashed Kohlrabi 

Pare kohlrabi, cut into quarters and cook until tender 



88 LOW COST COOKING 

in boiling salted water. Evaporate water, chop fine and 
add 3 tablespoons of drippings. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the potatoes and kohlrabi and put them on to 
cook one-half hour before the meal time. Prepare the 
hamburger steak. Set the table and add ice to the coffee, 
or if without ice put into a clean milk bottle and place in a 
pan under cold running water. Hash the kohlrabi, rice the 
potatoes and serve the meal. (Use oatmeal cookies made on 
the last baking day, see page 83.) 

Tuesday BREAKFAST 

OATMEAL WITH TOP MILK 

FRUIT TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Fruit Toast 

Use 6 slices of toast with 2 cups of stewed fruit. Fruit, 
such as plums, berries, cherries, rhubarb, etc., stewed with 
plenty of water, may be used. Pour it over the freshly 
toasted bread. It may be served hot or cold. 

Preparing the Meal 

Set the oatmeal on the fire to reheat after cooking over 
night. Make stewed fruit by boiling ^ dozen plums or 
other fruit in plenty of water. Make the coffee and the 
toast. 
Tuesday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

SPLIT PEAS WITH CARROTS 

PRUNE ROLLS 

TEA — MILK 

Split Peas with Carrots 

Use 3 cups split peas, cooked, and 3 cups of boiled car- 
rots. Mash the peas fine and add salt and pepper to taste. 
Add carrots, cut in small pieces, and }4 cup of milk. Re- 
heat and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2 cups of peas over night and start them to cook 
2 hours before meal time. This will make enough for 



SUMMER MEALS 89 

lunch croquettes on Wednesday also. Wash and scrape 
carrots and cut in }4 inch cubes. Cook in boiling, salted 
water for J^ hour before meal time. Set the table and add 
mashed peas to carrots. Make tea enough for this meal 
and for iced tea for dinner. As soon as the hot tea is 
poured, pour off the remainder and set aside to cool. Use 
prune rolls made on the last baking day. 

Tuesday DINNER 

POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES 

STEAMED RICE WITH STEWED CHERRIES 

ICED TEA — FRUIT DRINK FOR CHILDREN 

Pot Roast with Vegetables 

2 lbs. meat 2 cups turnips or cabbage 

2 cups carrots 2 cups parsnips 

2 cups rutabagas i onion 

Choose a piece of meat with some bone and a little fat, 
such as pork or beef shoulder, or brisket. Brown the meat 
well on all sides in a hot kettle, with a bit of fat. Add 2 
cups of water, cover closely and cook slowly for about 
4 hours, adding water as necessary. The last three-quarters 
of an hour add the vegetables, pared and cut in pieces. 
Serve the meat whole on the platter with vegetables ar- 
ranged around it. 

Steamed Rice 

I cup rice i}i teaspoon salt 

3 cups boiling water 

Wash rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the 
water from the faucet to run through until it is clean. Add 
rice to boiling water and boil for 5 minutes. Place stew- 
pan, closely covered, in larger kettle of boiling water and 
steam for 50 minutes. 

Steamed Rice with Stewed Cherries 

Use I box of cherries to 3 cups of steamed rice. Wash 
and stone the cherries, cover with water and cook until 
tender. Add sugar to taste. Pour J4 c^P of fruit over 
each dessert dish of rice. 

Preparing the Meal 
Four hours before meal time put the pot roast on to 






90 LOW COST COOKING 

cook. If a 3-pound piece is used, enough will be left for 
croquettes on Wednesday. Put rice on to steam, and while 
it is cooking, stew the cherries and set them aside to cool. 
As soon as the rice is done set it in a cool place. There 
will be enough of it for the griddle cakes on Wednesday as 
well as for the dessert. 

Three-quarters of an hour before meal time prepare the 
vegetables and add them to the meat. Set the table, make 
the fruit drink for the children by adding a little of the 
cherry juice and 2 cups water to the rhubarb juice left from 
Monday. Ice the tea for the adults. Finish preparing the 
dessert. Serve meat on platter with vegetables around it. 

Wednesday BREAKFAST 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

FRIED BACON STRIPS 

BANANAS 

COFFEE — MILK 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

^ cup boiled rice 2 tablespoons drippings 

2 cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

i^ cup liquid i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons sugar 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add rice to the liquid ingre- 
dients. An egg may be added. Combine with the dry and 
beat well. Cook by tablespoonf uls the same as other griddle 
cakes. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the griddle cakes and start the first griddle full 
cooking. Make the coffee, slice and fry the bacon, and 
set the table, attending to the cooking of the cakes at the 
same time. And when they are finished serve the breakfast. 

Extra Baking 

Before starting to cook the noon meal mix the bread 
and set it to rise. It will be ready for the second kneading 
soon after lunch, and can be baked before time for the 
evening meal. Make cinnamon rolls as well as bread. If 
coal or wood fire is used, plan to keep the top of the stove 
full while fire is going. Leave no empty space in the oven 
while it is hot. 



Wednesday 



SUMMER MEALS 91 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 



SPLIT PEA LOAF 

SLICED TOMATOES 

BREAD WITH OLEO 

TEA — MILK 

Split Pea Loaf 

4 cups split peas, cooked i beaten egg 

2 cups bread crumbs r teaspoon minced onion 

I tablespoon minced parsley, celery, or other flavoring as 
desired Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix all the ingredients together. If too soft to hold its 
shape add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water 
or another egg. Form into loaf, lay over it thin slices of salt 
pork or bacon. Brown in oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Use split peas cooked on Tuesday. A half hour before 
meal time make loaf and put in oven to brown. Slice the 
tomatoes. Set the table and make the tea. 

... . . DINNER 

Wednesday 

BAKED CROQUETTES BAKED POTATOES 

HOT CINNAMON ROLLS 

BANANAS WITH LEMON JUICE 

LEMONADE 

Baked Croquettes 

3 cups chopped meat i teaspoon onion juice 
3 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon salt 

2 cups thick white sauce Pepper to taste 

Make a white sauce by stirring J^ cup flour into % cup 
melted fat, cook till frothy, then add slowly 2 cups milk or 
water, or the two n^ixed, stirring all the time, and cook 
again till thick, stirring till smooth. 

Add cooked meat — ^beef , mutton, veal or pork — ^and bread 
crumbs. Mix well, form into croquettes about 3 inches 
long, lay them in greased pan, and set in hot oven to brown. 

Bananas with Lemon Juice 
Slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with brown sugar and lemon 
juice. 



92 LOW COST COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

Put six potatoes for dinner and four for tomorrow's lunch 
in oven one hour before meal time, while bread is still 
baking. Croquettes and cinnamon rolls (see page i6) may 
be baked together about J^ hour before meal time. Set the 
table, prepare the bananas and lemonade. 

Thursday BREAKFAST 

FARINA MUSH WITH TOP MILK 

CINNAMON ROLLS (BAKING POWDER) 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Farina Mush 

Use }i cup of farina to 4 cups boiling salted water. Make 
the same as other cereal mush. Cook J4 to i hour. 

Baking Powder Cinnamon Rolls 

2 cups flour }i cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking powder }i cupoleo 

yi teaspoon salt J4 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons fat 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl, 
work the fat in with the tips of the fingers, add the milk 
or water slowly and mix all with a knife into a soft dough. 
Turn on to a floured board and roll lightly into a sheet 
yi inch thick. 

Spread with the mixture of oleo, sugar and cinnamon 
rubbed together in the mixing bowl and roll up the dough 
like a jelly roll. Cut into }4 inch slices and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put on water to boil for cereal and coflfee; while the 
farina is cooking make and baike the cinnamon rolls, make 
the coffee and set the table. 

Thursday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAMED POTATOES AND BEETS 
LETTUCE WITH FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

BUTTERMILK 

Creamed Potatoes and Beets 
Use 2 cups boiled potatoes, 2 cups boiled beets and 2 cups 



SUMMER MEALS 93 

thin white sauce. Cut the potatoes and beets in J^-inch 
cubes. Reheat in white sauce made separately; or, add 2 
tablespoons flour mixed with J^ cup cold water and i J4 cups 
milk to the vegetables and boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

French Salad Dressing 

Mix three parts olive, peanut or salad oil with one part 
lemon juice or vinegar; add pepper and salt to taste. 

Preparing the Meal 

Several hours before meal time wash carefully 2 bunches 
of lettuce and lay it on ice or in a cool place so that it may 
be crisp when time to serve. Wash 6 beets and start them 
to cook at breakfast time. When cooked tender remove 
from fire. One-half hour before meal time, peel part of the 
beets, leaving the rest for Friday's salad. Skin the cold 
baked potatoes cooked Wednesday and cut both in j4-inch 
cubes. Make the white sauce, add the vegetables and reheat. 
Set the table and mix the salad dressing. 

Thursday DINNER 

FRIED calves' HEARTS WITH BROWN GRAVY 

MASHED POTATOES 

LETTUCE AND GREEN ONION SALAD 

COFFEE — MILK 

Fried Calves Hearts 

I J4 pound hearts, sliced lengthwise, in J^-inch slices. Soak 
in cold salt water for i J4 hours, roll in flour or bread crumbs 
and brown both sides in hot suet fat, cover pan and cook 
on very slow fire until tender. Use beef heart the same way. 

Brown Gravy 

3 tablespoons drippings 2 cups water, or water and 

3 tablespoons flour milk mixed 

Add flour to hot drippings and let it brown. Add liquid 

gradually, stirring constantly until a smooth mixture is 

obtained, and boil 3 minutes. 

Lettuce and Green Onion Salad 

Wash and trim the tops of the onions. Serve them on 
lettuce leaves with French dressing. 



94 LOW COST COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

One and one-half hours before meal time put the calves' 
hearts to soak. Prepare the potatoes and put them on to 
cook 5^ hour before meal time. Brown the hearts and while 
they are cooking make the coffee, set the table, dress the 
salad and mash the potatoes. 
Friday BREAKFAST 

CRACKED WHEAT 

CODDLED EGGS TOAST 

COFFEE FOR ADULTS— COCOA FOR CHILDREN 

Coddled Eggs 

Put 6 eggs in stewpan with enough cold water to cover. 
Cook on low fire until boiling point is reached. 

Preparing the Meal 

Cracked wheat should be started to cook the night before. 
Set on to reheat, make the coflfee, put on the eggs. While 
they are cooking, make the cocoa, making six extra cups 
to serve cold at dinner. Set the table, make the toast. 

Friday LUNCH OR SUPPER 

CREAM OF NAVY BEAN SOUP 
LETTUCE WITH CHEESE AND FRENCH DRESSING 

Cream of Navy Bean Soup 

2 cups cooked navy beans 3 tablespoons drippings 
i]^ cups milk 3 tablespoons flour 

lyi cups water i tablespoon minced onion 

Minced celery, etc., as desired for flavoring 

Stir the flour, onion and other flavorings in hot drippings 
until they are browned. Add water and boil. Mash the 
beans fine or put through a sieve or colander. Add salt 
and pepper to taste. When hot it is ready to serve. 

Lettuce with Cheese and French Dressing 

Mix the French dressing, add 3 tablespoons grated cheese. 
Stir and add to the lettuce. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak 2^2 cups beans over night for soup and for Satur- 
day's lunch. Start them to cook about 2 hours before 
meal time. Wash and drain the lettuce and leave in ice 



SUMMER MEALS 95 

box to get crisp. If there is no ice box, put the lettuce in a 
tin pail with a tight cover in a cool place or under running 
water. One-half hour before meal time set the table, make 
the soup and dress the salad. 

Friday ^I'^NER 

SALT CODFISH HASH 

BEET SALAD 

CUP CAKES COLD COCOA 

Salted Codfish Hash 

lyi cups salt codfish 3 cups potatoes 

Wash and pare the potatoes and cut them in uniform 
size. Pick salt cod in small pieces and drop the potatoes 
and fish into boiling water. Boil until the potatoes are soft. 
Drain, mash thoroughly and put into a hot greased frying 
pan until well browned on under side. Serve with one-half 
folded on top of the other like an omelet. 

Beet Salad 

Cut boiled beets in 5^ -inch cubes. Mix with boiled salad 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks or whole egg 
H cup vinegar i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour % teaspoon pepper 

}i teaspoon mustard 

Make smooth paste of flour with part of milk, add re- 
maining milk and boil for five minutes. Set on back of 
stove, add egg, stirring it well through the mixture, cover 
and allow to stand 10 minutes in order to cook the egg. 
When cool, add vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard and mix 
thoroughly. 

Quick Cup Cakes 

Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
ij4 cups of flour, ^ cup of fine granulated sugar, 2 level 
teaspoons of baking powder, J^ teaspoon of salt. Sift in 
the bowl. 

In the measuring cup melt J4 cup oleo or crisco or lard, 
break in i or 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add J/2 
teaspoon flavoring extract or ^ teaspoon of spice. Mix 



96 LOW COST COOKING 

with the dry ingredients and beat well 2 or 3 minutes. Bake 
in greased muffin tins in quick oven. 

For Chocolate Cake add 2 tablespoons cocoa in place 
of spice. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash enough beets for salad and for lunch on Saturday. 
Cut off the tops and save them to cook for greens. Cook 
the beets immediately after breakfast, so they will be cold 
when needed. Prepare the codfish and potatoes and put 
them on to cook ^ hour before meal time. Make the cakes 
and while they are baking set the table, make the salad, 
brown the codfish hash. Use cocoa left from breakfast. 

Saturday BREAKFAST 

GRAHAM MUSH WITH TOP MILK 
CREAM TOAST — COFFEE 

Cream Toast 

6 slices toast 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups milk I egg 

2 tablespoons flour H cup water 

Mix the sugar and flour in stewpan, add water and stir 
until smooth. Add i cup milk and boil until thick. Add 
remaining milk, heat to boiling point and remove from fire. 
Add a beaten egg to the hot sauce, stirring it well through 
the mixture. Pour over hot toast and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat graham mtish which was started to cook the night 
before. Make the toast, start the coffee and make the sauce 
for toast. Set the table and finish the toast and coffee. 

Extra Baking 

Mix the bread about the same time as on Wednesday, 
planning to have it baked about the time the evening meal 
is served. 

Make plain rolls for this meal and sugar rolls for Sunday 
breakfast. Mix the spice cake for Sunday J^ hour before 
the bread is ready to bake, and bake it first, as it requires 
a cooler oven than the bread. Cook the plums for Sunday 
Itmch while bread is baking. 



Saturday 



SUMMER MEALS 97 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 



PUREE OP BEANS AND TOMATOES 
RHUBARB MARMALADE 



Boiled Beans and Tomatoes 

3 cups cooked navy beans 2 tablespoons drippings ^ 

I cup canned tomatoes i tablespoon minced onion 

I tablespoon minced parsley or celery if desired 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Add tomatoes to beans and boil ^ hour. Cook onions 
and other seasonings in the drippings, add to the beans. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

3^ pounds rhubarb 3 pounds (6 cups) sugar 

2 lemons 2 oranges 

Cut rhubarb into j4-inch pieces. With a sharp knife pare 

oflF, very thin, the colored part of the lemon and orange 

peel. Then cut this into small pieces and add to the 

rhubarb. Remove remaining peel of the oranges and lemons, 

divide into sections ; add this to mixture and cook, boiling 

y^ hour; add sugar and boil very slowly V/i, hours longer. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make rhubarb marmalade after breakfast is over and 
put away in sealed jars the part not to be used at once. 
One-half hour before meal time start the beans and toma- 
toes and while they are cooking set the table, prepare the 
seasoning and add it to the beans. 

« ^ J DINNER 

Saturday 

LAMB STEW — BOILED RICE 
BEET GREENS 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS — MILK FOR CHILDREN 

Lamb Stew with Rice 

ij4 pounds lamb or mutton 2 cups carrots 

Use lamb or mutton from shoulder, cut into small pieces. 
Cover with cold water and cook slowly without boiling for 
4 to 6 hours. Three-quarters of an hour before meal time 
add carrots, pared and cut into j4-inch pieces. When done 
thicken the gravy with 2 tablespoons flour. Serve on large 
platter with a border of boiled or steamed rice. 



98 LOW COST COOKING 

Beet Greens 

Wash greens carefully. Cook i hour or more, until 
tender, in boiling salted water. Season with pepper and 
drippings. 

Preparing the Meal 

Three hours before meal time put the lamb on to stew, 
using 3 pounds of the meat, so that enough may be left 
over for Turkish Pilaf on Sunday. Put greens on. Wash 
and pare carrots and cut in long, narrow strips. One-half 
hour before meal time add them to the stew. Wash ij4 
cups of rice and put on to boil. This will make enough for 
Sunday also. Make the coffee and set the table. 

Set aside the meat for Sunday, and thicken the gravy. 
Evaporate the water from the rice and season the greens 
and serve. 



Sunday 



BREAKFAST 

FRIED BACON WITH EGG 
TOAST — FRESH PEACHES 
COFFEE FOR ADULTS 
CINNAMON TEA FOR CHILDREN 

Fried Bacon with Egg 

Fry the bacon. Break eggs and drop them whole into the 
hot fat. Cook on low fire without turning. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the coffee and toast, put milk on to heat. Set the 
table. Wash the peaches and serve them whole in a fruit 
dish. Fry the bacon, remove from the pan, and cook the 
eggs. Make cinnamon tea. 

DINNER 
Simday 

TURKISH PILAF 

HASHED SPINACH WITH EGG 

RHUBARB TAPIOCA 



SUMMER MEALS 99 

Turkish Pilaf 

3 cups rice 2 cups meat, chopped and 
i^ cups of tomatoes cooked 

i}4 cups water 

Mix rice with tomatoes and water, place ahemate layer 
of the mixture and of chopped meat in baking dish, cover 
with bread cnrnibs, bake until brown in moderate oven. 

Hashed Spinach with Hard Cooked Egg 

1^ peck spinach 2 eggs 

Wash spinach very carefully. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender, about 30 minutes. Lift the spinach out of 
the water. Chop fine and season with 3 tablespoons drip- 
pings. Serve in vegetable dish with a border of hard cooked 
eggs cut into quarter sections. 

Save the water in which the spinach was cooked for soup, 
as it contains valuable salts. 

Rhubarb Tapioca 

4 cups rhubarb 5^ cup tapioca 

2 cups sugar 

Soak the tapioca over night in cold water to cover. Drain, 
add boiling water, and cook until transparent. Add sugar, 
and rhubarb, peeled and cut into half-inch pieces, and bake 
until rhubarb is tender. Serve hot or cold with milk. 

Apple Tapioca is made in the same way. 

Preparing the Meal 

Soak the tapioca over night and prepare this dish imme- 
diately after breakfast and set it aside to get cold. An 
hour before meal time, cook the eggs for the spinach, follow- 
ing the directions for hard cooked eggs. Prepare the lamb 
stew left from Saturday by picking the meat from the bones 
and chopping it. Make the Pilaf, using this with rice 
cooked on Saturday, and put in the oven 40 minutes before 
meal time. Wash the spinach and while it is cooking make 
the coffee and set the table. Season the spinach, take it 
up, and arrange the eggs. Serve the Pilaf in dish in which 
it was baked. Leave the dessert in the ice box until the 
first part of the dinner is eaten. 



lOO LOW COST COOKING 

SUPPER 
Sunday 

ENGLISH MONKEY 
SPICE CAKE — ^STEWED CHERRIES 

English Monkey 

4 cups bread crumbs }i cup cheese 

2 cups milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the bread crumbs and milk. If the crumbs are not 
well moistened, add water. When hot, add cheese cut in 
small pieces, remove from fire and stir until cheese is melted. 
May be served on toast. 

Spice Cake 

I cup dark brown sugar i teaspoon ground cinnamon 

I cup cold water yi teaspoon grotmd cloves 

1% cups seeded raisins ^ nutmeg 

yi cup drippings or crisco }4 teaspoon salt 

Boil the above ingredients together three minutes, then 
cool. When cold stir in one teaspoon of soda dissolved in a 
little warm water. Add 2 cups of flour, sifted with J4 
teaspoon of baking powder. Bake as a loaf in a slow oven 
with the "Extra Baking" on Saturday. Nuts are a pleasing 
addition. 

Preparing the Meal 

Twenty minutes before serving, start English Monkey 
and while it is heating set the table. Add the cheese to the 
hot mixture and serve. 



MENUS 



1 1 i Mi i y ! 

I 

lii 1 li i I P M 



iif'Anpiimn 



ill 
If 

Pi 



I02 



LOW COST COOKING 



Eh >-'■*—' 






30 
o 

00 

s g 

^ I 

S B 

PU 2 »^ 

00 Q 



B 







00 o 

L^ S H ^ 

gg««a 

Qg 

S o 



H 
00 

0S 



o 
n 



P 

OQ 

O 

z 
o 

O 
P 



00 a 

g S 

H 



s 






?g 



e 



S85gO 

o 

Sp 



Sgg 

eg" 



C4 

n 



I- 

Si 

O 

d no 
H 

o n 

H 



CO 
10 



DO 



s 



00 
00 r> 

i^ 

Ho 
H 

S 
H 
GO 



OQ 
< 
fa 

n 




«> 
H 00 

§ w 

«0 



IS 
9 

o 



o * 

_ * 
H V. 

3 s 

"^ 1 

o 



Is 

9 
8 

« 

•8 



O 



o 



•8 






MENUS 



103 



g: 



^ a 

-^ ^ 
M H 9 

H P* 

00 5 

3 g 

g 8 



M 

QQ 

O _ 

g i 



10 
00 

. 28 

o 
td 2 

00 M 

I 

gg 

H 
00 

< 







8 



00 

p 

ec 

3 



'■< 00 0, 

w 

H 
A 






at 



1 

9 

•c: 



« 
$> 



9 

I 

i 



Pi 
H 
Oi 
Oi 
P 

OQ 

o 

H 




5 s 

o 



OD 

O 



C4 

00 



a 



a 



CI H 



CI 

to 



p 
o 

00 



5 



H 
00 

< 

O 
H 



^ 



00 



& 



3 

OS 

n 





LOW COST COOKING 



i 



.|i|!!,M!!inu 



9 If =1 W I V III 

vr ^ I'm i M' 



L'!n=ri!4!i i 



!! I i 



iM i. r. f p! I i ! 



iMrrif "irn ii'M 



■ i 



MENUS 



los 



CO « 



OS 



P< 

o 
o 

H 
o 



QQ 

< 
n 




9 



t 



« 

•< 



y 


s 


^a 


u 


^o 


9 




§ 


^5 


« 


•1* 


l(k 




i 


5 




8 





LOW COST COOKING 



I 11 hi ! I 1 ij 

g - B a B "a ; E Z S 8 1 

5 I i I ai I 3 III 

5 n P» Mill 



a 



! 1 M h s I ! a ! til 

ill" -ll" S|9 "III :1" sir IMS I 

I it 'it III 431 i I >sii 3 1 g 

1 1 if i iiiif IM ft 

Is S f3 8 SB f 8 ia I « 3 «s 



COST FOR ONE MONTH 

The following quantities are estimated as sufficient for 
a family of man, woman and four children over 4 and under 
13 years of age. The same amount of food would be 
enough for a family consisting of a woman and six chil- 
dren under 14. In the latter case, however, the menus 
should be modified to give more milk for the children and 
less meat will be needed. The cost would remain the same. 

The prices quoted are those for the year 1914 in Chicago. 
Of course these vary greatly in different parts of the city, 
and prices of fruits and vegetables fluctuate from week to 
week and even from day to day. If the particular kinds 
mentioned in the menu cannot be bought at the price named 
some other kind cheaper that day can usually be found 
and used instead. Allowance is made for unavoidable loss 
in cooking and preparing but not for any waste of good 
food materials being thrown away. 



WINTER MENUS. 
Cekeals and Breadstuffs. 



White flour 49 IbS $1.40 



Rye flour 3 lbs 

Graham flour 3 lbs 

Oatmeal (bulk) .... a lbs 

Cornmeal o lbs 

Cracked wheat i lb 



.15 

.15 
.20 

.15 
.06 



Rice (broken) 3 lbs 

Rice (whole) i lb 

Hominy 2 lbs 

Farina 2 lb 

Barley i lb 



Legumes. 



Navy beans 3 lbs 

Kidney beans i lb 

Lima beans 2 lbs 

Lentils 2 lbs 



$.18 
.08 
.16 

.14 
Vegetables 

Potatoes I bu $ .90 

Sweet potatoes ^1^® '^^ 

Turnips 8 lbs .16 

Rutabaga 8 lbs .12 

Cabbage 8 lbs .24 

Beets 6 lbs .12 

Carrots 10 lbs .20 

Onions i pk .20 

Dates 2 lbs .20 

Figs 2 lbs .20 



Split peas 

Black eyed peas.. 



2 
I 



lbs 
lb 



$ .12 
.07 

.05 
.10 
.08 

$2.53 

$ .12 
.06 



$.74 



AND Fruits. 

Seedless raisins 2 lbs $ .20 

Prunes 3 lbs .30 

Eh-ied apples S lbs .70 

Dried apricots i lb .20 

Dried peaches 2 lbs .24 

Bananas 2 doz .20 

Fresh apples i^ pks .45 

Oranges i doz .24 

Lemons 2 .05 

Canned tomatoes . . . H doz .60 

$5.63 



107 



io8 



LOW COST COOKING 



Meats^ Eggs, 

Milk 70 qts $5.60 

Hamburger steak.. 7 lbs .84 

Beef for stew 4 lbs .40 

Mutton for stew. . . 2 lbs .24 
Fresh pork shoulder 3 lbs 42 
I salt pork shoulder 8 lbs 1.28 

Flank steak 4^ lbs .63 

Calves' hearts 1% lbs .18 

Fat salt i>ork 3 lbs .36 

Bacon strips 8 lbs 1.60 

Round steak lyi lbs .33 



Sugar 15 lbs 

Tapioca i lb 

Black olives i lb 

Coffee 4 lbs 

Tea ^Ib 

Cocoa ji lb 



Fats, Etc 

Com beef brisket... lib $.14 

Codfish 2 lbs '.30 

Salt fish 3 lbs u|0 

Eggs 4 doz lis 

Cheese 2 lbs .44 

Oleomargarine .... 8 lbs x.76 

Suet 4 lbs .20 

Leaf fat 4 lbs .44 

Beef heart i lb .15 

Beef for pot roast. 2 lbs .24 

$17.33 

$ .10 
.10 
.16 
.10 
.10 

92.77 



M!lSCELLANEOUS. 

$ .75 Spices, flavoring, etc 

.08 Salt 

.12 Yeast 16 cks 

1. 00 Baking powder 

.20 Salad oil 

.06 



Total for the Month, $28.89. 

SUMMER MENUS. 

Cereals and Breadstuffs. 

White flour 49 lbs $1.40 Cracked wheat I lb 

Graham flour 2 lbs .10 Rice (broken) 6 lbs 

Oatmeal (bulk).... 3 lbs .15 Farina 2 lbs 

Commeal (bulk) .. 4 lbs .10 

Legumes. 

Navy beans 2 lbs $ .12 Kidney beans 2 lbs. 

Lima beans i lb .08 Split peas 2 lbs 

Vegetables and Fruits. 



Potatoes 3pks $ .75 

Kohlrabi 4bch .10 

Carrots 8 bch .20 

Turnips 4 bch .10 

Beets 4 bch .10 

Spinach 2 pks .30 

Kale ipk .10 

Large onions Hpk .10 

Green onions 4 bch .10 

Radishes 4 bch .10 

Lettuce 12 bch .60 

Green beans i^qts .12 

Cucumbers .05 

Dried apricots }^ lb .10 



Dried peaches.... i lb 

Prunes 3 lbs 

Rhubarb 10 lbs 

Fresh peaches 4 doz 

Raisins 2 lbs 

Fresh tomatoes.... 
Canned tomatoes . . 2 cans 

Fresh apples i pk 

Dried apples i^ lbs 

Plunis I basket 

Berries 4 boxes 

Gooseberries 3 boxes 

Lemons i doz 

Bananas 2 doz 



$ .06 
.24 
.10 

$2.15 

$.16 
.12 

$.48 

$ .12 
^o 

.20 

.20 
.20 

OS 
.20 

^5 

.30 
.30 

.30 
.20 
.20 

$5^ 



COST OF MENUS 



109 



Meats^ Eggs^ Fats^ Etc 



Milk 70 qts 

Buttermilk 12 qts 

Cottage cheese 

American cheese.. .2^ lbs 

Lard 4 lbs 

Suet 3 lbs 

Oleomargarine .... 8 lbs 

Bacon strips 8 lbs 

Chopped meat 6 lbs 

Beef for pot roast. 8 lbs 
Boneless nam butt.. 2 lbs 

Codfish 3 lbs 

Beef for stew 6 lbs 



$5.60 
.60 
.10 

.55 
•44 

.15 
1.68 
1.68 

.96 
40 
.30 
72 



Lamb for stew 3 lbs 

Mutton for stew... 2 lbs 

Calves' hearts 3 lbs 

Round steak i ^Ibs 

Veal for stew 2lbs 

Flank steak i^lbs 

Tripe i^lbs 

Neck bones 3 lbs 

Brains 

Eggs 8 doz 

Salad oil i qt 



$ .30 
.24 
.3d 
.33 
.24 
.21 

.15 
.18 

.15 
1.92 

.35 
$18.33 



Miscellaneous. 



Sugar 18 lbs 

Tapioca i lb 

Coffee 4 lbs 

Tea ^ lb 

Cocoa }i lb 



$.90 

.08 

1.00 

.20 

.06 



Flavorings, etc $.10 

Salt .10 

Yeast 16 cakes .16 

Baking powder .10 



Total for the Month^ $29.5a 



$2.70 



HOME MADE FIRELESS COOKER 

The use of a fireless cooker will save gas, keep the kitchen 
free from steam and heat and give excellent results with 
foods which require long, slow cooking. 

The principle on which it is made is that of keeping in 
the heat. Food is started cooking, then the kettle is tightly 
closed and placed where it will be so shut out from the air 
that the heat is held until the food is cooked. 

Almost every housekeeper has some large box with a 
lid, an old trunk or something of the sort which can be 
used. If not, the grocer can supply a tall cheese box or a 
butter tub for lo cents. 

For a cooking vessel choose one with straight sides or 
sides sloping upwards and a tight lid. A granite pail with 
a tin lid will do and may be bought for 30 cents. A 5-pound 
lard pail can be used. Aluminum or granite stock pots 
made for this purpose with clamped lids can be bought for 
80 cents to $2.00. 

Pack the bottom of the box or tub with an 8-inch layer 
of excelsior, straw, sawdust or crushed newspaper. Set 
the vessel to be used on this and pack the excelsior or paper 
tightly all aroimd to the top of the kettle. When the kettle 
is lifted out a nest will be left into which it can be put again. 
Cut a strip of asbestos paper as wide as the kettle is high 
and long enough to reach around it. Line the nest with 
this. 

For the top make a cushion of thin white cloth filled 
with excelsior or paper. Make the cushion just large 
enough to fill the top of the box or tub and allow the lid to 
fit down closely over it. 

no 



FIRELESS COOKER 



III 



TIME TABLE FOR HOME-MADE FIRELESS COOKER 



Meats 


Proportion 


Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Beef Pot Roast 


2 lbs. 


30 min. simmer 


6 hrs. 


Pork and 


2 lbs. 






Sauerkraut 


iqt. 


30 min. simmer 


6 to 7 hrs. 


Stewed Chicken 


I chicken 
water to cover 


30 min. simmer 


8 hrs. or more 


Fresh Vegetables Time on Fire Time in Cookfu 


Carrots 


5 min. boil 


3 hrs. or more 


Beets 


5 min. boil 


3 J4 hrs. or more 


Turnips 


5 min. boil 


2 hrs. 


Peas 


5 min. boil 


3 hrs. 


Cabbage 


5 min. boil 


ihr. 


String Beans 


5 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Potatoes 


5 min. boil 


i}4 hrs. 


Legumes 


1 


Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Navy Beans after soaking 


30 min. boil 


8 hrs. 


Split Peas 


12 hrs. 


30 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Lentils 




30 min. boil 


6 hrs. 


Cereals 


Proportions 


Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Rolled Oats 


I cup 






Cream of Wheat 


water 3 cups 


5 min. boil 


2 to 12 hrs. 


Farina 


water 3 cups 


5 min. boil 




Commeal 


I cup 
water 5 cups 


5 min. boil 


5 to 12 hrs. 


Hominy Grits 


I cup 


5 min. boil 


10 hrs. or more 


Rice 


water 5 cups 








I cup 


5 min. boil 


I hr. 


Macaroni 


water 4 cups 








I box 


5 min. boil 


lyihT. 


Dried Fruits 




Time on Fire 


Time in Cooker 


Prunes — ^Apricots 


soak 6 hrs. 


5 min. boil. 


4 to 6 hrs. 


Raisins— iPeaches 


or all night 


5 min. boil 


4 to 6 hrs. 


Apples 









COLD LUNCHES 

If a cold lunch must be eaten by any member of the 
family, it should be very carefully prepared and should 
have as much variety as possible. A cold lunch soon 
becomes exceedingly distasteful if it is always the same. 
The substantial part of the lunch must usually be sand- 
wiches with fresh fruit if possible and sometimes cake or 
cookies, or candy. 

The lunch box or basket may be divided into two or 
four parts by making partitions of strips of pasteboard. 
Each compartment should be lined with white paper fresh 
each day. In this way different kinds of food can be kept 
separate and it will be possible to carry baked beans and 
salads of all kinds in one compartment where they will not 
injure the other foods. 

SANDWICHES 

Slice bread for sandwiches very thin, put in the filling 
and cut them the size and shape desired. It is better to 
have each sandwich small as this makes them more appe- 
tizing. They should be very carefully wrapped in oiled 
paper so they will not dry out. The following are some 
suggestions for making filling for sandwiches. 

1. SucED Meats. 

Ham, roast or boiled beef, etc., sliced thin. When such meat 
is used for the family dinner, cut off some good slices for the 
next day's lunch. Home>cooked meats cost only about one- 
third as much as the ready-cooked. 

2. Chopped Meats. 

Ham, pork, beef, mutton, etc., chopped fine, with seasoning such 
as mustard, salad dressing, etc. All leftover meats can be used in 
this way and made into tasteful sandwiches. 

3. Bacon, fried crisp. 

Dip one side of the bread to be used in the hot drippings, lay 
the pieces of bacon inside. This is good with cornbread. 

112 



SANDWICHES II3 

4. Lettuce. 

Spread a leaf of lettuce with cooked salad dressing and place 
between slices of buttered bread. Or, use cottage cheese instead 
of salad dressing. 

5. Nut Sandwiches. 

Chopped or ground peanuts or other nuts, moistened with 
salad dressing or melted butter. 

6. Nut and Fruit. 

Use dried figs, raisins or dates, chopped fine and mixed with 
ground nuts. 

7. Cheese. 

Make a layer of grated cheese between slices of buttered 
bread. It may be moistened with syrup. 

& Egg. 

Hard-cooked egg chopped fine, moistened with hot drippings 
or butter, or salad dressing; sweet green pepper chopped fine 
may be added ; or fried egg placed between pieces of bread. 

9. Baked Beans. 

Mash the beans fine, add a little mustard and vinegar, or any 
other seasoning desired, and place between buttered bread. 

la Sweet Sandwiches. 

Mash the pulp of stewed fruit, dates, figs, prunes, etc, and 
spread between buttered bread. A thick marmalade may be used 
for this. 

WHEN THE MOTHER WORKS OUTSIDE THE 

HOME 

Many of the menus given require more of the house- 
keepers' attention and time than she can give if in addition 
to her own home keeping she must do outside work for the 
support of her family. 

If the fire is to be kept going all day during her absence, 
stews, meat soups, kettles of leg^umes with meat, or of 
cereal, and other dishes requiring long cooking, can be 
cooked on the top of the stove ; or baked beans, peas, or len- 
tils be left in the oven to be ready for the evening meal. 
If the fire is not to be kept, a fireless cooker should be used 
for such dishes as these. They can be put into the cooker 
before the mother goes out to work and will cook while she 
is away. The children can be instructed to put potatoes for 
baking in the oven an hour before meal time, so that a good 
meal will be almost ready when the mother returns. 



114 ^^W COST COOKING 

If the children are to eat a lunch prepared by themselves, 
it will be wise to make milk an important part of the meal. 
Bread with either hot or cold milk and fruit or jam makes 
a good lunch, or a creamed soup or creamed vegetable 
which the children can re-heat for themselves in the Winter, 
or eat cold in the Summer. 

The following may help some little housekeeper who 
wants to have the house in order when her mother returns 
tired out from the day's work. 

Program for Work When Mother Is Away From Home 

Each child old enough to i;irork must help as the house- 
work is too much for one child under 14 years of age. The 
older one may plan and have the others work under her 
direction. 

6 :30 A. M . — Rise. On rising, open the beds and leave the 
bed clothing neatly spread out to air with the windows all 
open. Have each child do this for his own bed. 

Wash hands and face and dress fully before starting to 
cook breakfast. Set the breakfast table neatly and all sit 
down to eat together. Insist that each child be washed and 
dressed before coming to the breakfast table. 

After breakfast wash dishes at once, one child washing, 
another wiping and putting away. Clean the sink, put every- 
thing in place, and sweep the kitchen. This much should be 
finished by 10 a. m. at latest. During the part of the year 
when the children are going to school they should plan to 
do this much before dressing for school. The beds may be 
left to air all day and made when school is over. 

10 A. M. — ^Make the beds, two children working at each 
bed at the same time; set bed rooms and sitting room in 
order; brush up floors if necessary, and dust. This should 
be finished by 11 a. M. at latest, so that there will be time 
for rest or play before getting lunch. 

After lunch is over wash these dishes at once so that the 
house will be in order again for the afternoon and there 
will be time to rest and play before time to start things 
cooking for the supper. 



DISH WASHING 

When children hate dish washing it is because they do 
not think about what an important and fine thing it is to 
take articles unfit for use and make them fit. A dirty dish 
is fit for nothing. To take this and make it beautifully 
clean and free from germs ready to be used for food is in- 
teresting work and is pleasant when properly done. 

Plenty of hot water with soap or soda is necessary. Al- 
ways fill the kettle after taking water from it. There must 
also be clean dry towels for wiping the dishes. Sugar sacks, 
which the grocer sells 3 for 10 cents make excellent ones. 
They should always be washed out immediately after using 
as they are hard to wash after drying. They must be boiled 
every few days to keep them from having unclean odors. 

Piling and Soaking 

Scrape all bits of food from dishes on to one plate and 
empty this in the garbage pail which should be lined with 
newspaper. Pile dishes of the same kind together and put 
to soak those that would otherwise be hard to wash. Rinse 
milk glasses with cold water and soak dishes containing egg 
or dough in cold water, others in hot water. Fill cooking 
dishes which have had food burned in them with water in 
which washing soda has been dissolved, boil until they can 
be easily washed. 

Washing 

Wash the cleanest articles first, glass, silver and cups, in 
pan of hot water with soap or soda. Rinse in another pan 
containing clear hot water or pile on a rack and pour over 
them enough hot water to remove the dirty soapy water. 
Dry and arrange neatly on pantry shelves. 

"5 



Il6 LOW COST COOKING 

MAKING THE BEDS 

Turn the mattress over,, spread on the lower sheet, stretch- 
ing very tight and tucking it under the mattress. The broad 
hem of the sheet belongs at the top, the narrow one at the 
bottom. Spread on the upper sheet and the blankets or com- 
forters leaving the sheet 8 or 9 inches longer at the top 
than the covers so that it may be turned back over them to 
protect them from getting dirty. Tuck all under the mat- 
tress with square corners, pulling down tight without crease ; 
put the spread on evenly and lay the pillows on squarely. 

SWEEPING AND DUSTING 

Before sweeping, see that no uncovered food is in the 
room or anything that dust will injure. Open doors and 
windows. Sweep out the comers well and sweep towards 
the center of the room, or open door using short strokes 
and holding the broom close to the floor so that the dust 
will fly about as little as possible. In winter snow may be 
scattered over dusty carpet to keep dust down. Damp saw- 
dust and coarse salt are also good for this purpose. A soft 
cloth makes the best duster. Do not forget to wipe the dust 
off the rungs of the chairs, table legs and other parts of 
furniture partly hidden. Shake the duster out of window 
after using, and wash it often. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 

Many foods good for adults are very harmful to the 
weaker digestive system of a child. A child's stomach can 
no more do the work of a man than his hands can do a 
man's work. Since the menus given are planned for a 
family including children, most of the dishes given may be 
eaten by children over four years of age. The food for a 
child under four requires more special attention and must 
be specially prepared. 

Things a Child Under Four Must Not Eat 

1. Heavy meats, such as ham, sausage, pork, dried beef, 
corned beef, liver, etc. Give a little scraped beef or 
mutton, meat broth, or minced chicken. If milk and 
eggs are freely given it is not necessary to give meat at 
all. 

2. Strong acid fruits, such as lemon and tomato, or pickles. 

3. Pie and pastry of all kinds, and nuts. 

4. Freshly baked bread, hot rolls, rich cake. 

5. Fried vegetables of all kinds. 

6. Raw vegetables, such as onions, radishes, cucumbers. 

7. Green com and dried beans, unless these are put through 
a sieve or colander. 

8. Raw bananas and preserved fruits. Stale or very ripe 
fruits. Fruits with hard seeds. 

9. Most important of all — stimulants, such as beer or any 
alcoholic beverages; tea and coffee. Of these tea and 
coffee are the ones most likely to be given to children. 

These are some of the reasons why stimulants should not 
be given children : 

(a) If a child is given stimulants he feels satisfied with- 
out food, or with a smaller amount than is needed, 
and the result is that his growth is stunted. 

(b) Coffee and tea having a pleasant flavor spoil the 
taste of the child for cereals, vegetables, milk and 
other wholesome foods which have little flavor. 

117 



Il8 LOW COST COOKING 

Therefore, it becomes more difficult for the mother 
to teach the child to eat the things necessary for 
his proper growth and development. 

(c) Coffee and tea in excess affect the kidneys and may 
be responsible for much of the kidney disease now 
so common among children. 

(d) Coffee and tea in excess weaken the nervous sys- 
tem and injure the heart. 

Regular Habits 

Not only must a child be taught what to eat but he must 
be carefully trained as to eating times. A child needs food 
oftener than a grown-up person, but should have regular 
meals and be given nothing between. 

A child under four years needs at least four meals and 
if five meals suit the mother's arrangements better, this 
number will not be harmful. His sleeping hours should 
be arranged to come between meals, and should be kept just 
as strictly as meal time. 

School children need a light lunch after school. It should 
be something that will not tempt them to eat much, so as to 
spoil their appetite for supper. Bread or cold toast or 
fruit or milk is suitable. 

Never give candy or sweets between meals, but always at 
the end as a dessert. 

Food for a Child Under One Year 

If a child must be artificially fed or when the time comes, 
at 6 to 9 months, when it needs other food in addition to or 
in place of its mother's milk, the advice of a physician who 
is a specialist in the feeding of children should if possible 
be obtained. Bad feeding at this time is exceedingly dan- 
gerous, as the large number of deaths among small children 
show. 

A healthy, well grown child of one year can be given 
clean, fresh milk, whole or mixed with water, strained 
orange juice or prune juice; several kinds of cereal after 
they are strained, and a few vegetables such as spinach, 
carrot, asparagus, and cooked celery which have been 
mashed through a strainer. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 119 

When a child first begins to have meat it should be given 
scraped beef or mutton. To prepare use a piece of lean 
meat cut like steak across the grain of the meat. In scrap- 
ing, the substance of the meat can be gotten out, leaving 
behind the tough fibers. Form into pats and broil. 

The following sample diet shows the amount and kind of 
food necessary for young children. 

Menu for Child i^ Years — Weight About 26 Pounds 

7:00 A. M. 2 tablespoons farina (measured raw) 
}i cup milk 

2 tablespoons orange juice 

10:00 A. M. I cup junket or milk 

12 :30 P. M. I small baked potato 

I slice bread and butter 
I slice bacon 
^ cup milk 

2 130 P. M. I egg yolk on toast crumbs 
I slice bread 
% cup spinach pressed through strainer 

5 :30 P. M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
}i cup milk 

3 prunes 

The farina and oatmeal must be cooked for at least 2 
hours and the oatmeal should be strained. Prunes and 
spinach should be put through strainer. Prunes may be 
given mixed with the oatmeal. 

Junket makes the milk easier to digest. Directions for 
making on page 58. 

Cook the egg soft and use the soft yolk, hot, on the 
freshly toasted bread crumbs. 

Carrot, lettuce and celery, cooked soft and mashed through 
a strainer, may be used instead of spinach. 

Bacon must be cut thin and fried crisp. The fat from 
the bacon may be eaten with the bread instead of butter. 



I20 LOW COST COOKING 

Menu for Child 2j4 Years — Weight About 30 Pounds 

7 :oo A. M. 2 tablespoons oatmeal (measured raw) 
y2 cup top milk 
2 large prunes 
I cup milk 

10 :oo A. M. ^ cup milk 
I slice toast 
% cup carrot pressed through strainer 
I slice bacon 

2 :oo P. M. I cup milk 

I small baked potato 

I small baked apple 
I teaspoon sugar 

6 :oo P. M. Milk toast 

(2 slices toast, J/$ cup milk) 
2^ tablespoons hominy with milk (dry) 

The same amount can be arranged in 3 or 5 meals. Some 
physicians are now advising only three meals for children 
even as young as 18 months. Green beans and peas, spinach, 
onion, lettuce and celery cooked soft and mashed fine 
or put through strainer, may be used instead of carrots. 

Orange juice, ripe mashed peaches, apple sauce and the 
juice of almost all fruits not too sour may be used as well 
as those named. 

Importance of Breakfast for School Children 

No meal is so important to school children as breakfast. 
It is easy for the child to form the habit of running away 
to school without eating at all or with only a cup of coffee. 
This leaves the child all morning with no food to furnish 
the body with material for growth, and will surely have the 
effect of stunting his growth. A cup of coffee is worse 
than no breakfast at all, because the coffee stimulates the 
body and makes it wear out faster. Coffee with a sweet 
roll or cake is almost as bad, as the roll or cake contains 
only a small part of the nourishment the child needs. A 
breakfast of cereal and milk does not cost as much as coffee 
and rolls and gives good material to grow on. 



FEEDING AND CARE OF CHILDREN 121 

It IS the aim of every intelligent mother to learn how to 
save her children from needless illness. Many mothers 
would like a reliable test by which they may know whether 
their children are perfectly well and developing properly. 
A pamphlet lately published by the National Children's 
Bureau gives these rules: 

Every child should show: 

A steady gain in weight, height and intelligence. 

Good appetite ; clear skin ; bright, wide-open eyes ; con- 
tented expression. 

Very little crying. 

Bowel movements of the normal number, color and 
consistency. 

Quiet, unbroken sleep, with eyes and mouth tightly 
closed. 

It adds that the way to secure these results is by giving 
children proper food at regular times, keeping them clean, 
giving them plenty of sleep at regular hours, fresh air day 
and night, and training them in regular habits of living. 

If a child is not growing and gaining steadily in weight 
there is something wrong and the mother should try to find 
out what it is. The following list will give an idea of the 
weight and height a child of a certain age should have 
attained. 

AVERAGE WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF CHILDREN. 

— Pounds — — Inches — 

Boys Girls Boys Girls 

1 year 20.5 19.8 29.0 28.7 

2 years 26.5 25.5 32.5 32.5 

3 years 3i-2 30.0 35.0 35.0 

4 years 35-0 34-0 380 380 

5 years 412 39.8 41.7 41.4 

6 years 45-1 43-8 440 43-6 

7 years 49-5 48.0 46.2 45.9 

8 years 54-5 52-9 48.2 48.0 

9 years 60.0 57-5 S0.1 49.6 

10 years 66.6 64.1 52.2 51.8 

11 years 72.4 70.3 S4.o 53.8 

12 years 79-8 81.4 55.8 57.1 

13 years 88.3 912 58.2 58.7 

14 years 99-3 100.3 61.0 60.3 

15 years 110.08 108.04 63.0 61.4 

16 years 123.7 113.0 65.6 61.7 



122 LOW COST COOKING 

GOVERNMENT BULLETINS 

Free. Send to the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

No. 391 Economical Use of Meats in the Home. 

No. 256 Preparation of the Vegetable for the Table. 

No. 203 Canned Fruits, Preserves and Jellies. 

No. 389 Bread and Bread Making. 

No. 565 Com Meal as Food and Ways of Using It 

Other Bulletins and Books 

Freehand Cooking on Scientific Principles. 10 cents. American 
School of Home Economics. 

Lessons in Cooking Through Preparation of Meals, Robinson 
and Hammel. $1.50 (cloth edition). American School of Home 
Economics. 

Low Cost Recipes, Jacobs. 75 cents. 

Economical Cooking for Two, Gibbs. 20 cents. 

Housekeeping Notes, Kittredge. 80 cents. 



INDEX 



Accounts, Keeping, 6 

Appetizers, 62 

Apple Baked with BaVedns, 85 

Cake, Dutch, 23 

Cobbler, 69 

Jelly, 61 

Sauce, 82, 87 

Tapioca, 99 
Apricots, Dried, 72 

Babies' Food, 118 
Bacon, Fried, 67 
Baked Apple, 85 

Banana, 50, 77 

Beans, 40 

Croquettes, 91 

Fish, 37 

Peas, 40 

Potatoes, 45 

Rhubarb, 53 
Bakery Foods, Cost of, 14 
Baking Powder Biscuits, 24 

Proportions Used, 17 
Balanced Diet, 8 
Banana, Baked, 53, 77 
Bean and Tomato Soup, 52 

Polenta, 73 

Soup, 52 
Beans, Baked, 40 

Boiled with Meat, 71 

Boiled with Tomatoes, 39 

Creamed Kidney, etc., 41 

String, 49 

With Cheese, 39 
Bed Making, 116 
Beef a la Mode, 84 

Soup, 68 

Stew with Vegetables, 32 
Beet Greens, 46, 98 

Salad, 95 
Beets, Boiled, 80 

Buttered, 44 

Pickled, 81 
Beverages, 63 
Biscuits, Baking Powder, 24 

Drop, 24 

Graham, 83 



Boiled Beans with Meat, 71 

Beans with Tomatoes, 39 

Eggs, 38 

Potatoes, 45 

Bice, 30 

Salad Dressing, 48 
Boston Baked Beans, 40 
Brains, 37 

Scrambled with Eggs, 37 
Braised Cutlets, 34 

Heart, 37 

Steak, 77 
Braising, 33 
Bran Bread, 22 
Bread, Bran, 22 

Corn, 26 

Graham, 22 

Rye, 22 

White, 21 

Whole Wheat, 22 
Breakfast Food^, 27 
Brittle, Nut, 58 
Broiling, 35 
Broth, Scotch, 33 
Brown Betty, 53 

Gravy, 93 

Stew, 33 

Sugar Syrup, 79 
Browned Parsnips, 44 
Buying, Economy in, 11 

In Quantity, 15 

Cabbage, Hashed, 44 

Salad, 85 
Cake, 55 

Spice, 100 
Calves' Heart, Fried, 93 

Stuffed, 37 
Cambric Tea, 63 
Candy, 58 

Canned Goods, Cost of, 13 
Caramel, 55 

Cream Candy, 58 

Junket, 58 

Sauce, 56 

Syrup, 67 
Carrots, Creamed, 70 



123 



124 



LOW COST COOKING 



Catsup, Tomato, 82 
Cereal Drinks, 04 
Cereals, Cooking, 28 

Prices of, 12 
Cheese in Cream Grayy, 42 

With Beans, 80 

With Potatoes, 45 
Children, Feeding and Care of, 116 

Menus for Young, 119 

Milk for, 

Protein for, 

Weight and Height of, 121 
Children's Drinks, 62 

Food, 7, 113 

Work, Program for, 114 
Chocolate Cake, 96 

Cream Pudding, 64 

Sauce, 56 
Chopped Meats, 84 
Cinnamon Rolls, 22 

Bolls, Baking Powder, 25 

Tea, 63, 73 
Cobbler, Dried Apple, 69 
Cocoa, 62 

Shells, 64 
Coddled Eggs, 94 
Codfish Hash, 95 
Coffee, 62, 67 

Cake, 28 
Cold Lunches, 112 
Composition of Foods, Table of, 16 
Cookies, Oatmeal, 57 

Bran, 57 
Corn Beef with Vegetables, 82 
Corn Bread, 26 

Shortened, 26 

Southern, 71 
Com Meal Griddle Cakes, 66 

Mush, 81 
Com on Cob, 34 

Pone, 26 
Cost of Month's Menus, 107 
Cottage Pudding, 56 
Cream of Bean Soup, 51 

Lima Bean Soup, 51 

Na-vy Bean Soup, 94 

Sauce, 42 

Soups, 50 
Cream Toast, 95 
Creamed Carrots, 70 

Kidney Beans, etc., 41 



Lima Beans, 41 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 45 

Rutabaga, 85 

Salt Fish, 42 

Salt Pork, 76 

Vegetables, 44 
Croquettes, Baked, 91 

Meat, 36 
Croutons, 50 
Cnwt for Cobbler, 69 
Cucumber Pickle, 62 
Cup Cakes, 56 

Desserts and Sweets, 53 

Flavoring for, 55 
Diet, Balanced, 8 
Dishwashing, 115 
Dressing for Fish, 37 

Salad, 48 
Dried Apple Cobbler, 69 

Apricots and Peaches, 72 

Foods, Cost of, 13 

Fraits, 53 
Drinks for Children, 63 
Drinks, Summer, 64 
Dumplings for Stewp, 83 
Dusting, 116 

Eating, Habits of, 118 
Economy In Buying, 11 
Eggs, Coddled, 94 

Cooking of, 38 

Scrambled, 84 

Scrambled with Potatoes, 88 

Scrambled with Tomatoes, 88 
English Monkey, 100 

I^rina Mush, 92 

With Date Sauce, 28 
Fats, Economical, 12, 66 
Feeding of Children, 117 
Fig Preserres, 61 
Figs, Stewed, 78 
Fireless Cooker, Home-made, 110 
Fireless Cooking, Time Table for, 

111 
Fish, 87 

Cakes, 95 
Flank Steak, Braised, 77 

Broiled, 85 



INDEX 



125 



Flavor, Cost of, 14 
Flavoring for Desserts, 55 
Food and the Body, 6 

For Babies, 118 

For CUldren, 117 

For the Child, 7, 113 
Foods, Composition of, 16 

For Building and Repair, 8 

Furnishing Energy, 7 

Furnishing Minerals, 19 
French Salad Dressing, 93 

Toast, 27 
Fried Bacon Strips, 67 

With Eggs, 98 
Fried Calves, Heart, 93 

Corn Meal Mu3h, 29 

Hominy Mush, 78 

Salt Pork, 76 
Frozen Desserts, 59 
Fruit Ice, 59 

Puddings, Steamed, 54 

Toast, 88 

Ginger Bread, 57, 80 
Graham Biscuits, 83 

Bread, 22 

Mush, 72 
Grain Products, 21 
Greens, Beet, etc, 46 
Griddle Cakes, 25 

Corn, 25 

Rice, 26, 90 

Stale Bread, 25 

Habits of Eating, 118 
Hamburger Steak, 37 

With Tomatoes, 87 
Ham with Peas, 40 
Hashed Cabbage, etc., 44 

Kohlrabi, 87 

Potatoes, 45 

Spinach, 99 

Turnips, 44 
Heart, Fried, 93 

StufTed, 37 
Hominy Baked with Cheese, 82 

Mush, Fried, 28, 78 
Hot Breads, 23 

Ice Cream, 59 
Indian Pudding, 54 



Jam, Date and Prune, 61 
Jellies, 60 
Jungle Stew, 41 
Junket, Caramel, 58 

Kidnej Bean Loaf, 41 
Kitchen Utensils, 19 
Kohlrabi, 47 
Hashed, 87 

Lamb Stew, 33 

With Rice, 97 
Legumes, 37 
Lemon Sauce, 56 

Jelly, 58 
Lentil Loaf, 40 

Stew, 47 
Lentils with Rice, 29 
Lettuce and Green Onion Salad, 93 

With Cheese, 94 
Lightning Cake, 56 
Lima Bean Puree, 77 

Bean Succotash, 42 
Lima Beans with Barley, 27 
Loaf, Lentil, etc., 40 
Lunch for School Children, 118 
Luncheon, Cereal Dishes, 29 
Lunches, Cold, 112 

Making Beds, 116 
Marmalade, Rhubarb, 61 
Mashed Potatoes, 45 
Measurements in Cooking, 20 
Meat Balls, 34 

Croquettes, 36 

Loaf, 35, 85 

Pie, 36 

Scalloped, 35, 36 

Soup, 68 
Meats, 31 
Menus, 65 

For Young Children, 119 

Summer, 104 

Winter, 101 
Milk for Children, 9 

Sour, in Cooking, 23 
Minerals, Food Furnishing, 10 
Muffins, Berry, 23 

Bran, 24 

Graham, etc., 23 

Oatmeal, 24 



126 



LOW COST COOKING 



Rice, 24 

Rice and Corn Meal, 79 

Rye, 23, 76 

White Flour, 23 
Mush, Cereal, 28 
Mutton Stew, 33 

Navy Bean Soup, 52 
Navy Beans with Rice, 29 
Nut Brittle, 58 
Nutmeg Sauce, 56 

Oatmeal, 28 

Cookies, 57 

Mush, 70 

Muffins, 24 

Soup, 29 

With Potatoes, 29 

With Raising, 28 
Oleomargarine, 13, 14 
Onions, Scalloped, 44 

Panbroiled Flank Steak, 35 

Round Steak, 35 
Pantry, The, 19 
Parsnips, Browned, 44 
Peas, Baked, 40 

Green, 47 

With Carrots, 41 

With Ham, 40 
Pickled Beets, 81 
Pickles, 62 
Pie, Meat, 36 
Pilaf, Turkish, 36 
Plain Cake, 55 
Planked Fish, 37 
Poached Eggs, 38 
Polenta, 27 

Bean, 73 
Potato Cakes, 86 

Soup, 52 
Potatoes, Cooking, 44 
Pot Roast, 34 

With Vegetables, 89 
Preserves, 60 
Protein, 8 

For Adults, 19 

For Children, 9 
Prune and Date Jam, 61 
Prune Rolls, 22 



Pudding, Chocolate, 54 

Cottage, 56 

Indian, 53 

Rice, 53 

Steamed Fruit, 54 

Tapioca, 99 
Puree of Lima Beans, 77 

Pea, etc., 51 

Quick Cup Cakes, 56 

Raisins, Stewed, 82 
Rarebit, Rice and Cheese, 87 
Rhubarb and Fig Preserves, 61 

Baked, 53 

Marmalade, 61 

Sauce, 86 

Tapioca, 97 
Rice, Boiled, 30 

Griddle Cakes, 26, 90 

Muffins, 24 

Pudding, 53 

Soup, 79 

Steamed, 89 

With Cheese, 30 

With Fruit, 53 

With Lentils, 29 

With Navy Beans, 29 

With Stewed Fruit, 30 

With Tomatoes, 30, 68 
Riced Potatoes, 87 
Rolls, 22 

Rutabagas, Creamed, 44, 85 
Rye Bread, 22 

Muffins, 23, 76 

Salad, Cabbage, 85 

Dressing, 48 

Dressing, French, 93 
Salads, 48 
Salt Fish Hash, 95 

Pork in Milk Gravy, 76 

Proportion to Use, 7 

Scalloped, 80 
Sandwiches, 112 
Sauce, Chocolate, etc., 56 
Savory Rice, 30 
Scalloped Meat, 30, 36 

Meats, 35 

Onions, 44 

Potatoes, 44 



INDEX 



127 



Salt Fl8h, 80 

Tomatoes, 84 
Scotch Broth. 83 
Scrambled Eggs, 38, 84 
Setting the Table, 18 
Sherbet, 59 
Soft Cooked Eggs, 38 
Soup, Beef, 68 

Oatmeal, 20 

Rice, 79 
Soups, 49 
Sour Beets, 81 

Cream Soup, 51 

Milk, in Cooking, 23 
Southern Corn Bread, 71 
Spice Cake, 100 
Spinach, 46 

With Eggs, 99 
Split Pea lioaf, 91 

With Carrots, 41, 88 
Steak, Braised, 77 

Hamburger, 37 

Pan Broiled, 35 
Steamed Fruit Pudding, 54 

Rice, 30, 89 
Stewed Figs, 78 

Raisins, 82 
Stews, 32 

Vegetables, 41 

With Vegetables, 73 
String Beans, 47 
Stuffed Heart, 37 
Succotash, 42 
Suet Pudding, 57 
Summer Drinks, 64 

Menus, 104 

Vegetables, 46 
Supper Cereal Dishes, 29 



Sweeping and Dusting, 116 
Sweet Potatoes, 46 
Syrup, Brown Sugar, 79 
Caramel, 67 

Table Setting, 18 
Tapioca, Apple, etc., 99 
Tea, 63, 68 

Cinnamon, 73 

Toast, 71 
Thickening, Proportions of Flour 

for, 17 
Toast, 26 

Cream, 27, 96 

French, 27 

Milk, 27 

Tea, 64, 71 
Tomato Catsup, 62 

Salad, 48 
Tomatoes Scalloped, 84 
Tripe, 27 
Turkish Pilaf, 36 

Veal Stew, 32 
Vegetable Stew, 41, 73 
Vegetables, Cooking, 43 

Washing Dishes, 115 
Watermelon Rind Pickle, 62 
White Bread, 21 

Sauce, 42, 70 

Sauce, Thick, 85 
Whole Wheat Bread, 22 
Winter Meals, 66 

Menus, 101 

Vegetables, 43 

Yeast Bread, 21 



MtutolnlMy 




i 



