TX 715 
.fl88 
1915 
Copy 1 



THE 



GATE CITY 



COOK 



BOOK 




19 15 



iui*tttttn 






THE GATE CITY 

COOK BOOK 



J^ 



COMPILED BY 

COMMITTEE NUMBER ONE 

OF THE 

LADIES' AID SOCIETY 

OF THE 

PONCE De LEON AVENUE BAPTIST CHURCH 







1 st Edition Compiled by Committee Two, 
MRS. S. T. MARETT. Chairman. 

1905 

2nd Edition Compiled by Committee Five, 

MRS. W. J. NORTHEN, Chairman. 

1907 

3rd Edition Compiled by Committee One, 

MRS, ALBERT SPALDING, Chairman 

1915 



ATLANTA, GEORGIA 
1915 



+^>^ 

^-^A'' 



Recipe for a Happy Day. 

"Take a little dash of cold water, 

A little leaven of prayer, 
A little bit of sunshine gold 

Dissolved in morning air. 

Add to your meal some merriment, 
Add thought for kith and kin. 

And then as a prime ingredient, 
A plenty of work thrown in. 

Flavor it all with essence of love. 

And a little dash of play. 
Let the dear old Book, and a glance above 

Complete the well spent day. 






.'^ 



or 



Committee No. 1 



Adkins, Mrs. W. H. 
Akin, Mrs. E. G. 
Barker, Mrs. W. Hal. 
Bardwell, Mrs. R. N. R. 
Battle, Mrs. Richard 
Bell, Mrs. T. P. 
Benson, Mrs. Marion 
Bloodworth, Mrs. C. J. 
Burton, Mrs. O. E. 
Byrd, Mrs. C. P. 
Cannon, Mrs. Jason 
Castle, Mrs. Augustus 
Castleberry, Mrs. D. A. 
Culpepper, Mrs. S. G. 
DeFoor, Mrs. C. L. 
Dinkins, Mrs. S. C. 
Everett, ]\Irs. J. A. 
Fennell, Mrs. H. G. 
Foster, Mrs. Louise Spalding 
Gault, Mrs. J. T. 
Green, Mrs. Allison 

Wilson, Mrs. 



Hagan, Mrs. John 
Hancock, Mrs. W. J. 
House, Mrs. C. Y. 
Kellam, Mrs. J. F. 
Lakin, Mrs. E. C. 
Lawton, Mrs. J. P. 
Lenney, Mrs. W. E. 
Lewis, Mrs. George 
McCall, Mrs. H. A. 
Pace, Mrs. J. Powers 
Perryman, Mrs. Virgil 
Ponders, Mrs. 
■Ryley, Mrs. S. T. 
Scott, Mrs. R. J. 
Sims, Mrs. Hattie 
Singleton, Mrs. Nellie L. 
Spalding, ]\Irs. A. T. 
Spalding, Mrs. Albert Jr. 
Stanley, Mrs. W. P. 
Stover, Mrs. J. A. 
Watters, Mrs. J. G. 
Harry 



CONTRIBUTORS 



Akin, Mrs. E. G. Cole, Mrs. Roy N., Newnan, Ga. 

Anderson, Mrs. H. W. Collin, Miss Carrie 

Anderson, Mrs. W. P.; S. C. Collinsworth, Mrs. S. A. 

Armistead, Mrs. Wm. Collinsworth, Mrs. H. S. 

Atkinson, Mrs. Spencer R. Cone, Mrs. E. H. 

Austin, Mrs. Tom Connally. Mrs. E. L. 

Bagley, Mrs. Henry C. Council, Miss Evelyn, 

Bagley, Miss Helen Jackson, Miss. 

Baird, Mrs. J. B. Cox, Mrs. R. F. 

Baker, Mrs. Estelle Garrett Crawford, Mrs. J.-M. 

Baker, Mrs. P. H. Crenshaw, Mrs. W. T. 

Baker, Mrs. W. A., Griffin, Ga. Crichton, Mrs. Logan M. 

Bardwell, Mrs. R. N. R. Crouch, Mrs. R. O. 

Barker, Mrs. Brader Grififin, Ga. 

Barker, Mrs. W. Hal Daniel, Mrs. Robert 

Barnes, Mrs. Edw. H. DeFoor, Mrs. C. L. 

Barnes, Mrs. M. B. Dean, Mrs. L. G., Eufaula, Ala. 

Barnwell, Mrs. Chas. F. Dinkins, Mrs. S. C. 

Battle, Mrs. Richard Dodd, Mrs. Phillip 

Bell, Miss Ada C. Dull, Mrs. S. R. 

Benson, Mrs. Chas. Dunlap, Mrs. Edgar 

Benson, Mrs. Marion Dunn, Mrs. B. H. 

Buehl, Mrs. A. B. Dunn, Mrs. Will 

Bickers, Mrs. D. H., Greens- Dunwody, Mrs. R. G. 

boro, Ga. Durant, Mrs. Edward 

duBignon, Mrs. Chas. Dykes, Mrs. W. F. 

Binder, Mrs. Christopher, Ellis, Mrs. W. D. 

Stone Mtn., Ga. Elsas, Mrs. Benj. 

Bleckley, Mrs. Haralson Ericson, Mrs. E. N. 
Boyd, Mrs. W. R. Plainfield, N. J. 

Brooks, Mrs. Kate, Erwin, Mrs. Peter 

Quitman, Ga. Fairman, Mrs. 

Brotherton, Mrs. H. P., Fall. Mrs. M. A. 

East Point, Ga. Farris, Mrs. Lucy 

Brown, Mrs. George Fennell, Mrs. H. G. 

Brown, Mrs. L. N. Fitzhugh, Mrs. C W., 
Brown, Mrs. N. A. Pine Blufif, Ark. 

Broyles, Mrs. Arnold Forrester, Mrs. George 

Burnett, Mrs. W. Gordon Fort, Mrs. Charles 

Burton, Mrs. O. E. Foster, Mrs. Louise Spalding 

Burwell, Mrs. B. L. Foster, Mrs. W. E. 

Callaway, Mrs. Thomas M. Frazier, Mrs. J. D. 

Cannon, Mrs. Jason Fuller, Mrs. George 

Carroll, Mrs. E. H. Fuller, Miss Annie M., 

Carroll, Mrs. W. R., Gordon, Mrs. Arthur H. 

East Point, Ga. Gray, Mrs. H.. Barnesville, Ga. 

Carter, Mrs. J. D. Greene, Mrs. Allison 

Caruthers, Mrs. J. Y. Griffin, Mrs. A. P., 
Cason, Mrs. Marie Bowen Stone Mtn., Ga. 

Cassin, Mrs. Minnie Hillyer Hagan, Mrs. John 
Cater, Mrs. C. T., Quitman, Ga. Hamilton, Mrs. D. B., Rome, Ga. 

Cheatham, Mrs. R. C. Hancock. Mrs. W. L. 

Clarkson, Mrs. Fanny Hawkins, Mrs. Will 

Coates, Mrs. George Headen, Mrs. T. O.. 
Cobb, Mrs. Irwin East Point, Ga. 

Cobbs, Mrs. H. L. Hill. Mrs. John 



CONTRIBUTORS, Continued. 



Hobl)s. Mrs. Arthur 

Hook. Mrs. Stephen 

Hopkins, Mrs. John R. 

House, Mrs. C. Y. 

Hoyt, Mrs. L. M. 

Hynds, Mrs. Henry 

Inman, Mrs. Hugh 

Irwin, Mrs. C. B., Graham, N. C. 

Jarnigan, Mrs. W. C. 

Jervey. Mrs. Ed 

Johnson, Mrs. Mary Goggan 

Jones, Mrs. Mary Turner, 

Augusta, Ga. 
Jones, Mrs. Sam D. 
Kellam. Mrs. ]., F. 
Kennedy, Mrs. 
King, Mrs. J. Chester, 
King, Mrs. Porter 
Lakin, Mrs. E. C. 
Landrum, Mrs. W. W. 
Lawton, Mrs. J. P. 
Lewis. Mrs. George 
Lippold, Mrs. Charles 
Lipscomb, Mrs. M. A., 
Athens, Ga. 

Lumpkin, Mrs. Samuel 

Mabry, Mrs. J. S. 

Mansfield. Mrs. W. C. 

Manson, Mrs. P. F. 

Marett, Mrs. S. T. 

Mariott, Mrs. C. M., Alabama. 

Martin, Mrs. Edmund 

Martin, Mrs. William W. 

May. Mrs. Clarence 

McBride. Mrs. W. C, 
Newnan, Ga. 

McCall, Mrs. Howard 

McCall. Mrs. J. G. 

McCall. Mrs.. Quitman, Ga. 

McCarty. Mrs. George 

McCullough. Mrs. John 

McElroy. Mrs. W. R. 

McKeldin. Mrs. J. R. 

McKenzie, Mrs. J. C, 
East Point, Ga. 

Meador, Mrs. C. D. 

Meador, Mrs. Frank B. 

Millard. Mrs. Junius 

Miller, Mrs. Carlton 

Miles. Mrs. J. Allen. 
Charleston, S. C. 

Moore. Mrs. George P. 

Moore. Mrs. J. L., Hampton, Ga. 

Morris. Mrs. Annie E. 

Morris, Mrs. G. T. 

Myers, Mrs. Frank, Sr. 



Neal, Mrs. L. G. 

Nesbitt, Mrs., Marietta, Ga. 

Nichols. Mrs. H. M. 

Northen, Mrs. Charles 

Northen, Mrs. Wm. J. 

Nunnally. Mrs. Charles 

Oglesby. Mrs. A. G. 

Olive, Mrs. Lucy L., 

Pace. Mrs. J. Powers 

Paine, Mrs. G. E. 

Paxon, Mrs. Eliza H. 

Parrott, Mrs. Sanford 

Ferryman. Mrs. V. E. 

Ponder, Mrs. J. D. 

Pope, Mrs. W. B. 

Pou, Mrs. Edgar. Madison, Ga. 

Powell, Mrs. Mike, 

Newnan, Ga. 
Prior, Mrs. W. H., 

Greensboro, Ga. 
Probasco, Mrs. John B. 
Prout, Mrs. W. 'A., 
Rea, Mrs. J. R. 
Reed, Mrs. Mary 
Rehm, Mrs. H. C. 
Rice, Mrs. Frank P. 
Rice, Mrs. T. B., 

Greensboro, Ga. 
Robinson, Mrs. W. C. 
Rosser. Mrs. Luther Z. 
Rountree. Mrs. J. B., 

Quitman. Ga. 
Ruse, Miss Emmie 
Ryley, Mrs. S. T., 

Lexington, Ky. 

Sciple, Mrs. George 
Scott, Mrs. J. S. 
Scott, Mrs. R. J. _ 
Scoville, Miss Eliza 
Scruggs, Miss Maude 
Scruggs. Miss Ruby 
Sims. Mrs. Hattie 
Singleton, Mrs. N. L. 
Smart, Mrs. A. G. 
Smith, Mrs. S. E. 
Snook, Miss Gladys 
Spalding. Mrs. A. T. 
Spalding. Mrs. Albert, Jr. 
Spalding, Mrs. John S. 
Spalding, Mrs. W. T. 
Stanley. Mrs. Walter P. 
Steele. Mrs. A. B. 
Stewart. Mrs.. Marietta, Ga. 
Stigen, Mrs. Berger A. 
Stover, Mrs. J. A. 
Tanner. Mrs. A. M. 



CONTRIBUTORS, Continued. 



Terrell, Miss Mae. 
Thomas, Mrs. E. G. 
Thrash, Mrs. E. C. 
Tidwell, Mrs. Albert 
Turman, Mrs. Robert 
Turner, Mrs. Charles 
Van Dyke, Mrs. A. H. 
Van Rensellaer, Mrs. W. 
Walcott, Mrs. Charles, 

Grififin, Ga. 
Walker, Mrs. Irvin C. 

Newnan, Ga. 
Walker, Mrs. W. A., 

Milledgeville, Ga. 
Watson, Mrs. L. D. 
Waiters, Mrs. J. G. 
Waiters, Mrs. J. W., 

Albany, Ga. 



Westmoreland, Mrs. George 
Wheeler, Mrs. A. E. 
White, Mrs. J. C. 
Whitney, Mrs. Ella G. 
Wilder, Mrs. D. R. 
Williamson, Mrs. Banks, 

Burlington, N. C. 
Wills, Mrs. J. W. 
E. Wilson, Mrs. Harry 

Witcher, Mrs. 
Witcher, Miss Lois 
Wood, Mrs. L. S. 
Woodward, Mrs. Park 
Woodward, Mr. Park 
Wolff, Mrs. Bernard 
Wooley, Mrs. Vassar 
Wylie, Airs. Bun 
Young, Mrs. C. W. 
Yow, Mrs. E. M. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

Appetixers 38 

Bread 16 

Beverages 87 

Cakes and Icing 67 

Candy 85 

Desserts 59 

Fish and Oysters II 

Frozen Creams and Ices 78 

Meats and Entrees 25 

Miscellaneous \ ... 52 

Pirkles 55 

Poultry 32 

Salads 40 

Sauces r 45 

Soups 7 

Vegetables 48 



SOUPS 



"O, a very fine thing is a good education. 

And a very fine matter is good legislation, 

But to keep people healthy, contented and quiet, 

'Tis a sine qua non to begin with their diet." 

The meats for soups should be put in cold water and the 
salt added toward the last. If put in at first the meat is 
toughened and juices retained. Be careful to remove all 
scum and boil slowly. For thickening use CAPITOLA 
flour rubbed smooth in water or milk. If you wish the soup 
dark in color, use browned flour. Herbs used for seasoning 
soups are : sage, thyme, tarragon, mint, sweet basil, parsley, 
bay leaves, cloves and mace. Allspice and celery seed are 
used in some soups to a great advantage. Nearly all vege- 
tables are used in soups. The white of an egg is an ex- 
cellent clarifier for stock. 

Cream of Aspsu'agus Soup. 

Open one can of asparagus ; use water from the can and 
add to it one bay leaf, one onion, salt and pepper, also 
stalks of asparagus after cutting off tips, reserved to add 
later. After boiling ten minutes strain through a colander. 
In a separate vessel make a cream sauce of one heaping 
tablespoonful of CAPITOLA flour rubbed into one table- 
spoonful of melted butter ; add one pint of sweet milk. Stir 
constantly to keep from lumping. Add stock to this. Be- 
fore serving, heat asparagus tips and put in mixture. 

Mrs. B. H. Dunn. 

Bean Soup. 

Take dried white beans, wash and pick carefully ; cover 
with cold water and boil until beans are soft. Add more 
water as it boils away. Mash the beans ; add as much wa- 
ter as you want soup, tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Mrs. J. C. White 

Bouillon. 

Six pounds of beef and bone ; cut up the meat and break 
the bones ; add two quarts of cold water and simmer slowly 
five hours. Strain through a fine sieve, remove every par- 
ticle of fat ; add a little extract of onion and some chopped 
parsley, or leave out the onion if preferred. 

Mrs. W. C. Robinson. 



WEAR-EVER ALUMINUM UTENSILS are sanitary and 
economical. King Hardware Co. 

Dumplings for Soup. 

One cup of CAPITOLA flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder, sieved together. 
Add one-third cup of finely chopped suet, lard or butter, 
and enough milk to make a stiff dough. Form in dum- 
plings size of marbles, drop into soup, cover and boil ten 
minutes. Mrs. A. T. Spalding. 

Gumbo Soup. 

Take a chicken and fry half done, then pour over it three 
quarts of v^ater. Add two dozen pods of okra fried, two 
slices of broiled or fried middling meat, half a cabbage, 
chopped fine, half a dozen tomatoes, a little minced onion, 
a pod of red pepper, a sprig of parsley and salt to taste. 
Thicken with browned CAPITOLA flour. 

Mrs. Ellen G. Whitney. 

Gumbo File (Creole). 

Gumbo file can be made either of chicken and oysters, 
veal and oysters, or crabs and shrimp. Cut up the chicken 
or veal as for a stew, salt and pepper it, put a large table- 
spoonful of lard in your cooking vessel, let it get hot be- 
fore putting in seasoned chicken or veal ; let this fry for 
about fifteen minutes, then add an onion cut in small pieces, 
also a very small piece of garlic. When it is fried (not 
brown) add a large tablespoonful of CAPITOLxA. flour and 
let it brown, then pour in the juice of the oysters and 
enough of the hot water to make gumbo for four in family, 
pour in the water a little at a time and stir the whole so 
that the flour will not remain in lumps. Then put in the 
seasoning — salt, black and red pepper (not cayenne), a tn- 
blespoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of thyme and one or 
two bay leaves and four or five cloves. Let the whole boil 
about two hours and a half. Fifteen minutes before serv- 
ing put in two or three dozen oysters. Let them boil. When 
about to serve, remove the vessel to the back of the stove, 
where it will keep hot, but not boil ; add about half a table- 
spoonful of file, if it is fresh. Take a pinch of file, sprinkle 
in with the left hand while you stir with the right hand. 
In that way you will avoid lumps of file. Let all stand for 
five minutes, but do not let it boil. It is then ready to be 
dished. Take out the bay leaves before sending to the 
table. At table serve a spoonful of rice in each soup plate. 

Mrs. M. B. Barnes. 



KING STEEL RANGES have stood the test of years. 
For Sale by King Hardware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

Marrow Dumplings for Clear Broth. 

10 grams beef marrow, 2 eggs, 4 grams salt, Yz tablespoon 
chopped parsley, 100 grams dry bread crumbs. Melt mar- 
row over fire, stir till foamy, add eggs, bread crumbs, par- 
sley and salt to taste. Form dumplings with teaspoon, put 
in broth, let boil about four or five minutes. This is an old 
Swedish recipe. 

Comparison of Weights. 

1 German pound, 500 grams ; 1 English pound, 400 grams. 
1 English pound, 16 ounces. Mrs. Birger A. Stigen. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take three pounds of neck mutton, cover it with half a 
gallon of water, cook until tender, put in allspice and cloves 
and flavor with sherrp wine. Serve with the meat cut in 
small dice. Mrs, George Sciple. 

Noodles. 

Break an, egg in a bowl and beat into it a little more 
than one-half cupful of CAPITOLA flour and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of salt. Work the dough with the hands until 
it becomes smooth. Sprinkle a moulding board with flour 
and roll the dough as thin as possible. It should be like 
a wafer. Let it lie upon the board for five minutes, then 
roll it up loosely, and with a sharp knife cut in slices about 
one-third of an inch thick. Spread these little pieces and 
let them dry for half an hour or more. 

Put on the stove a large sauce pan containing two quarts 
of boiling water. Add a tablespoonful of salt and after 
turning noodles into the water, cook them rapidly for 
twenty-five minutes. Turn into a colander and drain. Add 
noodles to any soup desired, boil five minutes and serve. 

Noodle Soup. 

Add noodles to beef or any other broth after straining. 
They are excellent in broth of chicken left after cooking for 
salad. Mrs. S. S. Wood. 

Oyster Soup. 
Beat in a tureen 2 eggs, 1 heaping tablespoonful of to- 
mato catsup, 1 heaping tablespoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, red pepper and salt to taste ; on the stove put pot 
with large spoonful of butter ; enough CAPITOLA flour to 
thicken ; after flour is brown pour on oyster yater or hot 



10 

GLASS MEASURING CUPS are a necessity to the suc^ 
cessful cook. King Hardware Co. 

water of the quantity you wish to make. When all this is 
well boiled put in oysters and let cook well, but not too 
long. Heat tureen and when oysters are read}^ pour the 
contents of pot on mixture in tureen. 

Mrs. Mary Goggan Johnson. 

Terrapisi Soup. 
Take three terrapins, cut open and clean them, then scald 
the shells, scrape them, and put into a pot with four quarts 
of water ; boil until tender, then take out and pick to pieces. 
Place the meat again in the water. Add pepper and salt to 
taste. Fry a small piece of fat pork, chop it fine, and add 
to the soup. Thicken with browned flour, CAPITOLA; 
then add a teaspoonful of mace and one of allspice. When 
done add the juice of two lemons, one cup of claret. If the 
soup is not a rich brown from the flour, brown a little sugar 
for coloring. Mrs. Spencer R. Atkinson. 

Cream of Tormato. 
To one can of tomatoes add half pint of water, let stew, 
then strain through sieve, season with salt, pepper, butter 
and afew drops of onion juice ; thicken with one table- 
spoonful of CAPITOLA flour which has been rubbed 
smooth with a little cold water. Add half teaspoonful of 
soda to prevent curdling. Let one quart of milk reach boil- 
ing point and mix just before serving. Chopped parsley im- 
proves flavor. Mrs. Will Dunn. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Over a large soup bone or soup meat, pour two gallons of 
cold water and boil before putting in the vegetables. Into 
this add one-half head of finely-chopped cabbage, two or 
three turnips, a few pods of okra, two large white potatoes 
cut fine, a few stalks of celery and some parsley. After this 
has boiled three or four hours salt to taste and thicken 
with a heaping teaspoonful of CAPITOLA kour rubbed 
smooth with water. Some might prefer it strained, while 
others like the vegetables. Mrs. C. G. Lippold, 



FISH and OYSTERS 



"This dish is too good for any but anglers and very honest 
men." — The Complete Angler. 

"Now if you are ready, oysters dear, we can begin to feed." — 
The Walrus and the Carpenter. 

"Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea?" "Why, as 
men do a-land ; the great ones eat up the little ones."— Pericles. 

To cook fish properly is very important, as no food per- 
haps is so insipid if carelessly cooked. It must be well done 
and properly salted. A good rule to go by is the following: 
Allow ten minutes to the first pound and five minutes to 
each additional pound. For example: If you have a fish 
weighing five pounds, boil it thirty minutes. By pulling out 
a fin you may ascertain whether it is done or not. If it 
comes out easily and the meat is opaque white the fish has 
boiled long enough. Salt fish, if possible, several hours 
before cooking. This applies to both baked and fried fish. 
Heat the salt, and it will penerate to the bone more read- 
ily. Always put fish on to cook with hot water. 

To Broal Fish. 

Clean, wash and wipe dry. Split so that when placed flat 
the backbone will be in the middle, or take the bone out. 
Sprinkle with salt and aly inside down upon a buttered 
broiler over a clean fire until it is nicely colored. Then 
turn. When done put upon a hot dish, butter plentifully 
and pepper. Put a hot cover over it and send to table. 

Crab Stew. 

One dozen hard-shelled crabs (boiled), three pints milk, 
one tablespoon butter, half tablespoon thyme, one table- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoon Durkee's salad 
dressing, salt and pepper to taste. 

Directions : Put milk in stew pan on stove and add but- 
ter. Put thyme, sewed or tied, in cloth or sack, in milk. 
Put in a cup the Worcestershire sauce and Durkee's dress- 
ing, and fill cup quickly with milk, stirring it rapidly, and 
then pour it over the crab meat. Then put meat in stew 
pan with milk when boiling, but be sure there is no shell 
or dark piece of crab meat. Stir well, and when it again 
comes to a boil have the yolk of eggs mixed with a little 
CAPITOLA flour and a little milk ready. Pour this into 
the stew pan with crab meat, etc., and stir rapidly for a few 
minutes. Take out bag of thyme before serving, and season 
with salt and pepper to taste. Park Woodward. 



12 

A Fine Line of BATH ROOM FIXTURES. King Hardware 
Co., 53 Peachtree Street. 

Deviled Crabs. 

Boil 12 hard crabs, remove meat and mince. To 2 ounces 
cracker crumbs, add 2 hard boiled eggs chopped fine, 1 tea- 
spoon tuobasco, 1 tablespoon Worcestcrsliire sauce, 1 small 
pod red pepper, a little chopped parsley and onion, salt, 
juice 2 lemons, and butter size of an egg; make moist and 
rich with cream and 2 well beaten eggs. Fill the cleaned 
crab shells with mixture, put crumbs over top, brown in 
hot oven. Louise Spalding Foster. 

Broiled Finnan Haddie. 
Wash and wipe fish, lay in dripping pan, flesh side down 
cover with cold water and stand one hour. Drain, cover 
with boiling water, let stand 15 minutes, drain and wipe 
dry. Brush over with soft butter and broil 15 minutes over 
a silow fire and spread generously with Maitre d'Hotel but- 
ter. Mrs. John Hagan. 

Fish Sauce No. 1. 

Use bastings left from baking fish and add to it the juice 
of half of a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, 
one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, dash of tobasco 
sauce and a bit of chopped parsley. Mrs. C. L. DeFoor. 

Fish Sauce No. 2. 

With one-fourth of a bottle of Durkee's salad dressing 
mix one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, dash of to- 
basco sauce, one tablespoonful of vinegar and two hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine. Mrs. B. H. Dunn. 

Green Peppers with Salmon Filiing. 

Flake one can of salmon, add one-fourth of a teaspoonful 
of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of chipped gherkins, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped olives, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped capers ; 
remove seeds, membrane and stem end from several large 
peppers and soak in salt water, mix gherkins, olives, ca- 
pers and salt with salmon, add enough mayonnaise to hold 
it together, cut the peppers lengthwise, fill with the mix- 
ture, garnish and serve. Mrs. W. B. Pope. 

Lobster a !a Newburg. 
Either fresh or canned lobster may be used. To one can 
of lobster use three tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste, one-half of a grated nutmeg, one small teacup- 
ful of best Sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls of CAPITOLA flour, 



13 

O'CEDAR MOPS are a household necessity. King Hard- 
ware Co., 53 Peachtreo. 



yolks of 2 eggs and 1- pint of sweet milk or cream. First 
make a cream sauce of flour, butter and cream, j)our sauce 
over the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, add other ingre- 
dients, lobster last. Let whole heat thoroughly and serve 
on toast. Mrs. B. H. Dunn. 

Minced Oysters. 

One quart of oysters cut fine, j4 pound of butter, 4 eggs 
well beaten, salt and red pepper totaste ; a little onion juice, 
34 teaspoon nutmeg; put all on stove and when it gets hot 
add cracker crumbs to thicken, cook until thoroughly heat- 
ed. Put in oyster shells or Ramikins, with cracker crumbs 
or a small piece of butter on each, and bake brown. Serve 
very hot. Mrs. D. B. Hamilton, Rome, Ga. 

Oyster Omelet. 
One cup oyster, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon CAPI- 
TOLA flour, ^^ teaspoon salt, 3 eggs. Cook oysters until 
plump, drain and to the liquor add enough milk to make 1 
cupful. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add flour, salt and 
a sprinkle of pepper. Stir constantly, adding 1 cup of liquor 
and milk. Add to this the eggs well beaten separately. 
Turn into a hot buttered omelet pan, cook slowly. When 
well puft'ed and browned underneath, place pan where it 
will finish cooking on top. Spread oysters on half of ome- 
let, fold, turn on hot platter, and garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. C. W. Young. 

Oyster Patties. 

Make a very rich puff paste and bake in patty pans, bake 
smaller patties to be used as covers, when baked turn out 
on a large platter till your oyster filling is ready. Set the 
oysters on to boil in their own liquor, add a piece of butter 
and a little cream, beat the yolks of two eggs with a little 
salt and pepper, remove the oysters from ihe fire, stir in the 
beaten egg, bake about five minu,tes, se^^e hot. Boil and 
skim the liquor before putting in the Oysters, 

Mrs. William Worth Martin. 

Croquettes of Oyster^ 

Put in a stew pan two qiTas;ts of Qysters with a little 
broth pepper, ground mtace aud two ounces of butter ; boil 

USE SPOTLESS^LEANSER (5c> and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (lOe). 



14_ 

IDEAL FIRELESS COOKERS are a modem necessity. 
King Hardware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

two minutes, drain on a sieve, let cool a little and save the 
liquor ; then slice (not chop) the oysters ; make a white 
roux with two ounces of butter, a tablespoon of chopped 
shallots, and an ounce of flour, diluted with half a pint of 
the oyster liquor ; stir and boil five minutes. Add four 
egg yolks, a little red pepper, the sliced oysters, and chop- 
ped parsley, stir constantly and boil three minutes longer, 
and then turn into a basin to cool, spread pulverized crack- 
ers on the table, divide the preparation into pieces the size 
of an egg, roll in crackers and with the blade of a knife 
give them a rectangular shape, making them an inch thick. 
Dip in beaten eggs, roll in crackers again and fry brown 
in plenty of clear, hot lard. Dish up on a folded napkin, 
garnish with fried parsley and quartered lemons. 

Mrs. Haralson Bleckley. 

Oysters Stuffed with Mushrooms. 

For two dozen large oysters use 3^ cup finely chopped 
mushrooms, 1 tablespoon bread crumbs, 4 tablespoons 
sweet milk, 1 tablespoon each butter and lemon juice, white 
1 ^SS> V^ teaspoon salt, a tiny pinch of pepper. Simmer 
bread crumbs and milk together very gently for ten min- 
utes, add mushrooms and butter, remove as soon as it bub- 
bles, and stir in the beaten white, lemon juice and season- 
ing; let cool. Wipe oysters dry; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, roll in cracker crumbs, and spread the stufifing upon 
12 of them. Lay the other 12 upon these, press carefully 
together, skewer with wooden s.ticks, dip into beaten egg, 
roll in salted and peppered cracker crumbs, lay in frying 
basket and cook a rich brown in boiling COTTOLENE. 

Mrs. W. B, Pope. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

One can of salmon, one cup of cream or milk, one cup 
mashed potatoes, two tablespoons butter, one tablespoon 
CAPITOLA flour, three eggs, one pint of crumbs, pepper 
and salt to taste, chop salmon fine, mix flour and butter 
well together. After cream comes to a boil add butter 
and flour and boil for a moment ; then add salmon, potato, 
pepper and salt ; into this mixture stir two or three eggs 
well beaten". When cold shape into croquettes and fry. 

Mrs. V. E. Ferryman. 



15 

HOUSEHOLD PAINT in all colors. King Hardware Co., 
53 Peachtree St. 



Planked Shad. 

Heat plank while preparing fish ; split down back, re- 
move back bone, lay it down, skin side on board, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt and cover it with butter. Bake for 30 
minutes, remove from oven, place upon platter, garnish 
with parsley. 

Airs. Henry C. Bagley. 

Charleston Shrimp Pie. 

Cover bottom of baking dish with stale bread crumbs, 
put over them bits of butter, then a layer of shrimps, a 
layer of crumbs, butter, etc., until dish is full. Melt heap- 
ing teaspoon of butter, stir into it 1 heaping teaspoon 
CAPITOLxA. flour, and into this stir slowly 1 cup hot water. 
Let come to boil, season wuth salt, pepper and plenty of 
butter, pour over mixture in dish, put in oven, bake 'till 
brown. Fresh shrimp are best. 

Mrs. J. P. Lawton. 

When to Eat the Var'ous K:nds of Fish. 

Fresh salmon is best in May. Pickerel and black bass 
from September to January. Pike is best from January 
to April. Carp from October until April. Shad from 
March until May. Trout all the year round. Lobster from 
May until September, and oysters from September until 
April. 



USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 



BREAD 



Here is bread which strengthens man's heart, and is therefore 
called the stafif of life. — Henry. 

The three important requisites to the making of good 
bread are : Good flour, good fresh yeast and strength and 
endurance to knead or work it well. No book can alone 
teach the art. Experience is the school from which we 
must gain our best knowledge. First of all we must have 
good flour. Good flour adheres to the hand, and is of a 
creamy tint, bad flour has a dingy blue tint and will not 
adhere to the hand. When bread is set to rise cover tight- 
ly, set in a warm place in winter. When it is worked for 
the last time allow it to rise to its full capacity, so as 
to avoid cracked, split and broken loaves. The oven for 
baking bread should be rather quick and the heat reg- 
ular, in order to penetrate the dough without causing the 
outside to get hard. The oven door should be kept closed 
until the dough becomes firm, as the cool air is very in- 
jurious to bread. As soon as the bread is well soaked take 
from the pan and put where the air can pass around it. 
If you like the crust crisp do not cover the bread. If a 
soft crust is preferred wrap the loaves in a thick cloth 
while hot. If bread is cut while warm a hot knife must 
be used. Let all loaves be thoroughly soaked ; to tell 
when they are done run a skewer into the center. If it 
comes out free from dough the bread is done. Bread 
should bake an hour if the loaves are large. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups yellow cornmeal, 1 pint milk, ^ teaspoon salt, 

1 cup rye meal, ^ cup molasses, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1 egg, mix all dry ingredients, add molasses, egg and 
milk to form a batter, pour into a well-greased mould hav- 
ing a tight-fitting cover and steam four hours. 

Msr. E. M .Yow. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Two small cups cornmeal, 2 cups unsifted Graham flour, 

2 cups sweet milk, 3/2 cup water, 1 cup molasses, 1 level 
teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, }^ teaspoon salt, 
mix well, putting soda in last, after dissolving it in milk 
or water. Pour into a five-pound pail and after covering 
tightly set into a pan of water, also covered, and boil four 
hours. Take care that the water does not boil fow. Grease 



17 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER— It stands the test on hot cakes. 

the pail inside, having the bottom covered with well- 
greased paper to keep loaf from sticking. 

Mrs. Carlton Miller. 

Soft Egg Bread. 

One quart milk, 1/2 pint meal, 1 teacup boiled rice, 1 
heaping spoon butter, 3 eggs beaten light. Bake in deep 
dish. 

Mrs. J. Powers Pace. 

Excellent Com Bread. 

Two cups meal, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 heaping table- 
spoon CAPITOLA flour, 1 heaping teaspoon lard, little 
salt, and 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. Hattie Sims. 

Virginia Com Bread. 

One pint cornmeal, 10 eggs, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
1 cooking spoon of lard, whip the eggs lightly, add the 
meal, lard, salt and baking powder, then a pint of boiling 
hot water, stirring constantly. Bake immediately in a hot 
oven. 

Mrs. Spencer R. Atkinson. 

Graham Bread. 

Set the sponge to rise over night, using milk instead of 
water, and adding for every 3 quarts CAPITOLA flour a 
cup of molasses. In the morning add a little salt and 
enough flour to make a dough just thick enough not to be 
moulded. Put in baking tins to rise, and when light bake 
in a moderate oven. Do not mould at all. Graham bread 
should be made soft. Moulding spoils the bread, making 
it hard, dry and chippy. 

Mrs. E. H. Carroll. 

Nut Bread. 

Two cups Graham flour, 2 cups white CAPITOLA flour, 
1 egg, 1/^ cups sweet milk 1 cup brown sugar 4 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup nuts. Let stand 20 
minutes and bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Mary Reed. 

Salt-Rising Bread. 

Scald ^ cup of meal with ^ cup of milk, cover and let 
stand in a warm place over night. Next morning add 1 



18 

Use BLUE VALLEY BUTTER in your cakes. 

pint of warm water, salt and light 5^2 teaspoon of soda, 
CAPITOLA flour enough to make a stifif batter, also 1 
tablespoon of lard. Put in a warm place to rise, then 
make into pones and when they have risen bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Mrs. George McCarty. 

Steamed Bread. No. L 
Two cups sweet milk, 1 cup sour milk, y^ cup molasses, 
salt, teaspoon soda ; 3 cups cornmeal, 1 of CAPITOLA 
flour, 1 t^^, a little shortening — steam 3 hours. 

Miss Mae Terrell. 

Steamed Bread. No. 2. 
One cup meal, 1^ cups CAPITOLA flour, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup buttermilk, 1 ^^%, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 of salt. 
The flour should be sifted before it is measured. Steam 
from 3 to 4 hours. 

Mrs. W. C. Mansfield. 

Thomas Bread. 
One tumbler sweet milk, 2 eggs well beaten, salt to taste, 
2 teaspoons melted butter, 2 teaspoons sugar, a dessert 
spoon of yeast powder, CAPITOLA flour to make a stiii 
batter. 

Miss Mary Robarts, Marietta, Ga. 

Beaten Biscuit. No. \. 

One quart of CAPITOLA flour, 1 tablespoon of lard, -ut- 
ter the size of a walnut, a very small pinch of soda, 1 cup 
sweet milk, a pinch of salt. Beat till dough blisters. 

Mrs. W. A. Hemphill. 

Beaten Biscuit. No. 2. 

Sift a teaspoon salt into 1 pound CAPITOLA tlour, Yi, 
pound lard, use ^ water and milk, to make stiff dough, 
beat until it blisters. 

Mrs. Arnold Broyles. 

Buttermilk Biscuits. 

One quart CAPITOLA flour, 2 teaspoons yeast powder, 
1 tablespoon lard, Yz tablespoon salt, Ya tablespoon soda, 1 
tablespoon sugar, enough buttermilk to make stifif dough. 
Knead well, roll ^ inch thick, cut out, bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. T. O. Headen. 



19 

USE BLUE VALLEY BUTTER in your desserts. 



Cracker Biscuit. 

To each quart CAPITOLA flour use a heaping tablespoon 
lard, 1 even tablespoon baking powder and sufficient milk 
or water to make stiff dough. Beat with an iron beater 
until the dough is soft and blisters. After rolling doughy 
inch in thickness cut the biscuit the desired size and prick 
with a fork. Bake in a quick oven. The dough should be 
beaten until it is perfectly smooth. 

Mrs. Nesbitt, Marietta, Ga. 

Sour Cream Biscuit. 

Sift 1 teaspoon salt and 1 of soda with 1 quart CAPI- 
TOLA flour, 1 pint of sour cream, beat an egg and add to 
the cream, mix, roll, cut and bake as quickly as possible. 

Mrs. L. N. Brown. 

Sweet Potato Biscuit. 

One pint mashed potato, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 table- 
spoons milk, a tablespoon lard, Yz teaspoon soda, CAPI- 
TOLA flour sufficient to make a soft dough. 

Mrs. Robert Daniel. 

Muffins. 

Three eggs, 1 quart CAPITOLA flour, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 teaspoon soda, satl, tablespoon each of butter 
and lard, buttermilk to make a thick batter. 

Mrs. D. H. Bickers. 

Cream Muffins. 

One pint CAPITOLA flour, 1 pint cream, 3 eggs beaten 
separately, small quantity of salt. Bake in quick oven. 
^ Mrs. N. A. Brown. 

Wheaten Muffins. 

One pint CAPITOLA flour, 1 pint sweet milk, 5 eggs 
beaten separately, 1 large tablespoon lard, a pinch of salt, 
stir in whites of eggs last, bake in hot tins. 

Mrs. J. M. Crawford. 

Rolls. 

One Fleischman yeast cake, 1 cup mashed Irish potatoes, 
1 cup water from boiled potatoes, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon 

USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 



20 
BLUE VALLEY BUTTER— It stands the test on hot cakes. 

salt. To mix dissolve yeast cake in 3^ cup tepid water, 
mix all ingredients together, set in warm place for 24 hours, 
afterwards put in a jar and set in refrigerator. To make 
rolls: To 1 quart of CAPITOLA flour add 1 cup of the 
yeast mixture, a medium sized boiled mashed Irish potato, 
1 tablespoon each lard and sugar and 1 teaspoon salt. If 
dough is not sufficienth^ soft, add a little of the potato 
water. Roll out thin, cut in any desired shape, let stand 
3 hours before baking. 

Mrs. Sam'l Lumpkin. 

Light Rolls. 

(Level measurements.) 

Flour, 23^ to 3 cups; fat (lard or butter), 3 tablespoons; 
Fleischman's yeast, 3^ cake ; salt, 1 teaspoon ; sugar, 1 table- 
spoon ; lukewarm water, ^ cup ; sweet milk, ^ cup. 

1. Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water. 2. Sift 2]/^ cups 
CAPITOLA flour (once sifted) into mixing bowl. 3. Add 
fat to flour, cutting it in, until the mixture looks like meal. 
4. Measure salt and sugar. Add milk, then add yeast, dis- 
solved. 5. Add all this liquid to flour mixture, and more 
flour, if necessary, to make a soft dough. 6. Knead until 
smooth ; put into a greased bowl, and let stand until it dou- 
bles its bulk (3 hours) in a warm place (80 deg. F. or over). 
8. Knead a second time, make into rolls and let stand until 
they double in bulk again. 9. Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. J. Y. Carutbers. 

Parkerhosise Rolls. 

Three pints sifted CAPITOLA flour, 2 level tablespoons 
lard, 2 level teaspoons salt, 2 level teaspoons sugar, 1 pint 
sweet milk, 2 cakes Fleischman's yeast. Dissolve the yeast 
in warm (but not hot) milk ; mix flour, lard, sugar and salt 
together, add the milk and yeast. Set to rise in warm place 
for an hour and a quarter. Make into rolls, and when risen 
(about three-quarters of an hour), bake. Grease rolls with 
melted buter. Mrs. Banks Williamsorv 

Sweet Rolls. 

Make a rich biscuit dough of CAPITOLA flour, spread 
with butter and sprinkle with sugar. Roll and cut an inch 
thick, and lay flat in the biscuit pan. Bake quickly. 

Mrs. Hugh Inman. 



21 
BLUE VALLEY BUTTER— It stands the test on hot cakes. 

Tea Rolls. 

Three teaspoons baking powder, 1 good teaspoon sug- 
ar, 1 light teaspoon of salt, 1 egg, 1 cup (more or less) of 
sweet milk ; mix CAPITOLA flour, salt, baking powders as 
for biscuit dough. Stir sugar into beaten egg, then pour 
into flour using milk enough to make into soft dough. Cut 
with largest biscuit cutter, grease with butter and fold over, 
and brush all with butter and bake. Three cups of flour for 
this quantity is usually enough. 

Mrs. Edmund Martin. 

Rusk. 

One cup sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon lard, 2 eggs, 2 cups 
CAPITOLA flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup sweet 
milk, y2 teaspoon salt. Mix as for cake and bake in slow 
oven. Mrs. R. C. Cheatham. 

Waffles No. L 

Four eggs beaten separately, one quart milk, a piece of 
buter size of an egg, melted ; three teaspoons baking pow- 
der, a little salt and CAPITOLA flour enough to make a 
good batter. Mrs. Stephen Hook. 

Waffles No. 2. 

Three pints of CAPITOLA flour, three eggs well beaten 
(separately), salt to taste, one tablespoon lard, two tea- 
spoons cream of tartar, one of soda ; mix with sweet milk^ 
and bake with quick heat. Mrs. Tom Austin. 

Charleston Waffles. 

One heaping cup cold hominy, 1 heaping cup CAPITOI-# 
flour, 1 large spoon lard, salt, 1 pint buttermilk. Mash Iipm- 
iny fine, melt lard and mix thoroughly with hominy; add 
salt to taste, disolve soda in three large spoons boiling wa*"- 
ter ,and beat same into the butermilk, add to the homtcty 
lard, slowdy stirring all the time until smooth ; last, stir hf 
flour when sifted and beat until. free from all lumps. Ba^ 
in hot wafifle irons. Mrs. J. P. Lawtoa, 

Charleston, S* C'. 

Waffles Without Eggs. 

1^4 cups CAPITOLA flour, 1>4 cups buttermilk, Y^ mp 
coid water, salt to taste, 1 teaspoon soda. Make a smoCJt^ 
paste of the flour and milk. Dissolve soda in the water and 



22 

Use BLUE VALLEY BUTTER in your cakes. 

add to the paste. If it appears too thick, add a little cold 
water to thin it, the thinner the batter, the lighter the waf- 
fles. Have irons smoking hot on both sides. No waffles 
surpass these. Mrs. P. F. Manson. 

Rice Waffles. 

One cup of rice boiled tender and beaten into one quart 
sifted CAPITOLA flour, three eggs well beaten and stirred 
in the above, one small teaspoon of soda, a teaspoon salt. 
Mix into a batter, using buttermilk. Bake quickly. Butter 
and serve hot. Mrs. Charles Fort. 

Laplanders. 

Three eggs well beaten, one pint sweet milk, a pinch of 
salt, a tablespoon baking powder, half cup lard or butter, 
CAPITOLA flour enough to make the consistency of pound 
cake batter ; bake in greased pie pans and cut in eight 
pieces. You can use sour milk and a scant teaspoonful of 
soda. This batter is unsurpassed for waffles, muffins or 
battercakes. Mrs. Stewart, Marietta, Ga. 

Graham Gems. 

Two cups Graham flour, three tablespoons CAPITOLA 
flour, 134 cups water, two teaspoons sugar, the same of bik- 
ing powder, mix well together and bake in well greased 
gem pans in a hot oven. Mrs. N. A. Brown. 

Mennonite Toast. 

Beat three eggs well, add a pint sweet milk and a pinch 
of salt, cut slices an inch thick from a loaf of baker's bread, 
remove crust, dip slices into the egg and milk, fry like 
doughnuts in very hot COTTOLENE till a delicate brown, 
butter and serve with powdered sugar. Serve hot. 

Mrs. J. P. Rea, Lancaster, Pa. 

Pocketbooks. 

Mix the following ingredients with warm water; 2 eggs, 
2 teaspoons of sugar, one of salt, a piece of lard size of an 
egg, three tablespoons of yeast, one quart CAPITOLA 
flpur. When light, roll out the dough in strips about the 
length and width of your hand, spread with buter and roll 
in the form of a pocketbook. Place in tins well buttered, 
as soon as light and bake a pretty brown. 

Mrs. Louisa N. Brown. 



.^__^ 23 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER, the best spread for braed. 

Pop-Overs. 

One cup CAPITOLA flour, one cup sweet milk, one egg-, 
one tablespoon lard, one teaspoon salt ; whip egg and melted 
lard together, add salt, then flour, one-half cup milk, and 
beat about five minutes ; then add other half cup milk, mix 
well, bake in moderately hot oven. This quantity makes 
six mufliins. Miss Carrie Collin. 

Egg Pop-Overs. 
Three cups CAPITOLA flour, 3 cups sweet milk, 3 eggs — 
beat eggs tw^enty minutes — add milk and flour. Bake in 
cups. Mrs. Lucy Farris. 

Delicious Puffs. 

One pint sweet milk, 2 eggs beaten separately until very 
light, one pinch salt, ^ of a pint of CAPITOLA flour. Add 
whites of eggs just before baking, and bake c[uickly. 

Mrs. Annie E. Morris. 

Quick Sally Lunn. 
One cup sugar, half cup butter, stir well together and 
then add two eggs, put in one good pint sweet milk and 
CAPITOLA flour enough to make a batter almost as stiff 
as cake ; add three teaspoons baking powder, bake and eat 
Avhile hot, with butter. Mrs. R. G. Dunwody. 

Timbales. 
One cup of sifted CAPITOLA flour, one-half cup of cold 
water, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of melted buter (measured be- 
fore melted), a little salt. Beat yolks, put in water and but- 
ter, pour this in flour. Beat well, add beaten whites last. 
If they blister the lard is too hot, if not crisp lard is not hot 
enough, or there is too much flour used. Add a tiny bit of 
water if too stiff. Wipe off iron often with soft paper. Keep 
iron hot. Mrs. Wm. J. Northen. 

Vanities. 

Take two eggs, beat without separating, as light as possi- 
ble, add a teaspoon of salt and wet up as much CAPITOLA 
flour as will roll — they should be quite stiff — take small bits 
of dough, not larger than a teaspoon bowl, roll them in the 
hand till quite round, then roll as thin as possible and fry 
in sweet lard. Mrs. R. F. Nesbitt. 

USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 



24 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER, the standard of purity. 

Plain Wafers. 

One pint milk, one teaspoon salt, two large spoons of but- 
ter and CAPITOLA flour enough for a very thin bater. 
Bake thoroughly. Mrs. W. W. Landrum. 

Sweet Wafers. 

Five eggs (not beaten), 5 tablespoons buter, 1 cup sugar, 
two heaping cups CAPITOLA flour, cook in moderately hot 
irons and roll very quickly. Mrs. J. C. Greenfield. 

Wheat Drop Cakes. 

One pint cream, 5 eggs well beaten, a pinch of salt, CAPI- 
TOLA flour enough for a thin batter, bake in gem cups, 
buttered, and in a hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. H. L. Cobbs. 

Baking Powder. 

One pound of cream of tartar, ^ pound of soda and ^ 
pound of CAPITOLA flour, sift four times, as the ingre- 
dients must be well mixed. Mrs. D. M. Dunwody. 



MEATS 

"Upon what meat doth this one Caesar feed, that he has 
grown so great?" 

"There's no want of meats, sir; portly and curious viands 
are prepared to please all kinds of appetites. — Messenger. 

It is very essential that we understand how to select 
meat. Beef should be a bright red in color, fine grained 
and smooth, and when pinched with fingers should be ten- 
der. The choicest pieces for roasting are the sirloin and 
middle ribs. 

Veal must be firm and dry, fine grained and delicate pink 
in color. 

Mutton is good when the flesh is dark red in color, close 
grained, firm and juicy, the fat firm and white. 

Pork: If young the lean will break when mashed with 
fingers, if the rind is rough and hard it is old. This meat is 
more liable to disease than any other animal meat. The 
person doing the marketing should be particular to buy 
from reliable butchers and some one known to purchaser. 
If the meat is clammy the pork is bad. If the fat has ker- 
nels in it the pig has been measly. If the flesh is very red 
it signifies scarlet fever. Pork is the driest and fattest of 
meat. 

Venison must be fat, else it is unfit for use. 

The success of roasting depends on the heat of the fire. 
Meat placed in a cool oven loses its juices and the result is 
a tough, tasteless roast; whereas if the oven is hot the 
pores of the meat are immediately closed and the juices re- 
tained. The oven should be hottest when the meat is first 
put in, so that the surface will be quickly crisped. When 
the oven is too hot to hold the hand in a moment, it is then 
ready for the meat. The time required for roasting will 
vary according to thickness of roast, about fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes allowed to pound. In preparing a roast it should 
first be washed in pure water, then thoroughly dried with a 
clean towel, placed in a baking pan without any seasoning ; 
lay some pieces of suet or cold dripping under it, but no 
water should be put in the pan, for this has a tendency to 
soften the outside of the meat, the steam preventing the 
crispness so desirable. It should be frequently basted with 
its own drippings and seasoned when partly cooked. 

In cooking lamb, pork and veal the fire should be slower 
and the meat cooked until it leaves the bone and is nicely 
browned without burning. An -onion sliced on top of roast 



26 

TOLEDO STEAM COOKERS cook a whole meal over one 
gas flame. King Hardware Co. 

gives a nice flavor, especially to pork, the onion being re- 
moved before serving. 

Drawing pieces of fat pork through the upper surface of 
meat is called larding and is done with a larding needle, 
which can be procured from house furnishing stores. 

Stewing meat should be put in boiling water, closely 
covered and slowly boiled. When tender season. 

Salt meats must be covered with cold water and slowly 
boiled, requiring about thirty minutes to the pound after 
boiling has commenced. If very salty it should be soaked 
over night or, pour off first boiling water and place in sec- 
ond boiling water. After the boiling starts the pot should 
never stop simmering. 

When meats are found frozen, if thawed by placing in 
warm water or before the fire, it will certainly spoil them 
and render them unfit for use. The only way to thaw is 
by putting them in cold water. This should be done in time 
to have them well thawed before cooking. 

Roast Beef. 

Remember, the chief point in roasting beef is to have the 
oven well heated when meat is first put in. This prevents 
the escape of the juices. Take a rib piece or loin roast of 
seven pounds or eight, wipe it thoroughly all over with a 
clean wet cloth, lay in baking pan, and baste well with but- 
ter or suet fat. Set in oven. Baste frequently with its 
own drippings, which will make it brown and tender. When 
partly done, season with salt and pepper, as it hardens any 
meat to salt it when raw and draws out its juices ; then 
dredge with sifted flour to give it a frothy appearance. It 
will take a roast of this size about two hours' time to be 
properly done, leaving the inside a little rare or red — half 
an hour less would make the inside quite rare. Remove the 
beef to a heated dish, set where it will keep hot ; then skim 
the drippings from all the fat, add a tablespoonful of sifted 
CAPITOLA flour, a little pepper and a teacupful of boiling 
water. Boil up once and serve hot in a gravy boat. Some 
prefer the clear gravy without the thickening. Serve with 
mustard or grated horseradish. Mrs. A. H. VanDyke. 

Baked Hash. 

One can of roast beef or its equal in cold roast ; one cup 
boiled potatoes, chopped fine ; one-half cup cracker crumbs, 
one-half cup butter, onion to taste, one-half cup water, a 



. 27 

KING BEE OIL COOK STOVES have many points of su- 
periority. Ask us about them. King Hardware Co. 

little salt and pepper. Grease pan and bake until brown. 

Mrs. W. P. Anderson. 
Westminster, S. C. 

Barley Beef. 

Take four or six pounds of the round of the beef, put in 
a cooking vessel on back of the stove, with very little wa- 
ter; add salt, pepper, cloves and allspice; let it simmer four 
or five hours ; serve hot. Mrs. Harry W. Anderson. 

To Cook Round Steak So It Will Be Tender. 

Beat into the steak just as much CAPITOLA flour as it 
will take up, put into a hot skillet with a little lard, brown 
quickly on each side, then fill skillet with hot water ; season 
with salt, black pepper and paprika ; cover with a lid and let 
cook over a very slow fire for at least two hours. 

Mrs. Banks Williamson, Burlington, N. C. 

Hamburger Steak. 

Is made of round steak, chopped extremely fine and sea- 
soned with salt and pepper. You may grate in part of an 
onion or fry with onions. For invalids scrape the steak in- 
stead of chopping. Mrs. George Lewis. 

Swiss Steak. 

Use the desired amount of best cut round steak, not less 
than two inches thick. Beat into this 1 cup CAPITOLA 
flour sifted wuth 1 teaspoon baking powder. Use salt and 
pepper and beat, turning from side to side until all flour is 
used. Have saucepan very hot with a little fat in it : In 
this brov/n steak on both sides, then pour in boiling water 
till vessel is half full. Cover close and let simmer for two 
hours. This may be used plain or with onion, tomato, or 
pepper sauce added when served. 

Mrs. C. F. Cator, Quitman. 

Sauce for Broiled Steak. 

1 can tomatoes, 1 large onion, 1 heaping tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 dozen large olives (chopped), 1 cucumber pickle, 1 
tablespoon CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon salt, large pinch 
cayenne. Slice onion, fry till light brown, add flour and let 
brown slightly. Add tomatoes which have been boiled and 
pressed through sieve. Lastly put in chopped olives, pickle, 
pepper and salt. Serve hot. 

Mrs. W. A. Baker, Grift'in, Ga. 



28 

ESTATE and VESTA GAS STOVES use very little fuel for 
work don.e King Hardware Co. 

Roast Leg of Lamb. 

Take a leg of lamb, wipe carefully, roast two or three 
hours ; season and serve hot with the following mint sauce : 

Two tablespoonfuls finely chopped mint (green), one des- 
sert spoon of moist sugar, three or four tablespoons of vin- 
egar. Put the mint into a basin, add the sugar and pour 
over a little warm water, sufficient to dissolve the sugar; 
cover and let cool, then add the vinegar ; stir well and pour 
over a little warm water, sufficient to dissolve the sugar; 
cover and let cool, then add the vinegar ; stir well and pour 
into a saucepan. Mrs. Edgar Dunlap. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of veal, 3 eggs, 34 <^up butter, 1 teaspoon 
black pepper, 2 teaspoons salt, ^ pound ham, 3 tablespoons 
cream, 1 teaspoon onion juice, ^ teaspoon allspice, 2 tea- 
spoons sage, Yz cup fine bread crumbs. Grind veal and ham 
very fine, beat eggs without separating until light, and melt 
butter. Mix veal, ham, crumbs and seasoning well togeth- 
er; add eggs, and when well-mixed, the cream and melted 
butter. Mix thoroughly, press into a mold previously wet 
with cold water and turn out carefully into a flat baking 
pan. Bake for two hours in a moderate oven, basting occa- 
sionally with melted butter. Mrs. John A. Morris. 

Pressed Veal. 

Take a knuckle of veal and boil, when tender chop fine ; 
salt and pepper and add a little thyme and one cup of the 
meat liquor ; then put in a mold and press. When cold serve 
for tea or lunch. Mrs. Harry W. Anderson. 

Veal or Poultry Stuffing. 

Three cups stale bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon salt, Yi tea- 
spoon white pepper, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, 1 cup 
finely chopped suet or butter, 1 o:^^. Sage or onions may be 
added if liked. Mrs. Frank B. Meador. 

Creamed Brains. 

Half cold chicken, two sets brains, one can mushrooms, 
make one pint white sauce, add one wine glass sherry, one- 
quarter of a nutmeg, cayenne and salt to taste, put diced 
chicken and minced brains in sauce, mushrooms last. Serve 
in ramekins, timbales or chafing dish. 

Mrs. Charles Northen. 



29 



KING BEE ICE CREAM FREEZERS are the quickest 
freezing on the market. King Hardware Co. 

Brain Fritters. 

Take 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 tablespoon CAPITOLA 
flour, 1 of butter, and make a thick cream sauce. Beat 
in 4 eggs and 1 tablespoon of onion juice, strain in 2 sets 
of brains, after being well cleaned, salt and pepper, drop 
in hot COTTOLENE and fry. Miss Emmie Ruse. 

Calf's Head or Hog's Head. 

Boil head until the meat slips easily from the bone, make 
a dressing of the brain, four hard-boiled eggs, a dessert 
spoonful of chopped onion, butter, pepper and salt to taste. 
Thicken this and pour over the meat. The brains should be 
well boiled before mixing with eggs. You may add mush- 
rooms, sherry or Worcestershire sauce. 

Mrs. Will Green. 

To Boil a Ham. 

A blade of mace, a few cloves, a sprig of thyme and two 
bay leaves. Soak ham well in large quantity of water 
for 24 hours, then trim and scrape very clean ; put into a 
large stew pan with more than sul^cient water to cover it ; 
put in mace, cloves, thyme and bay leaves. Boil four or 
five hours according to weight ; when done let it become 
colld in liquor in which it was boiled, then remove rind 
carefully without injuring the fat; press cloth over it to 
absorb as much of the grease as possible. It is always 
improved by setting into the oven for nearly an hour, till 
much of the fat dries out, and also makes it more tender. 
Shake some bread raspings over the fat ; serve cold, gar- 
nished with parsley. Mrs. J. D. Carter. 

Pilau, Fine for Camping Tours. 

Take equal parts of venison, turkey, quail, duck and a 
small amount of middling meat; boil together; when 
thoroughly cooked remove all bones, skin and gristle. 
Mince the meat, season with butter, salt and small red 
peppers ; add some well-cooked rice and cook all together 
till it is the consistency of Brunswick stew. A little all- 
spice may be added if liked. Dr. W. Z. McElroy. 

Raviolli. 

Take any kind of lean beef, cut it up and stew as you 
would for hash. Add canned or fresh tomatoes, one onion 
or a little garlic, butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cook all 



30 

CROWN, KING BEE and BLACK KING HOSE are the 
very best of their kind. King Hardware Co. 

together until perfectly done. Cook spaghetti in salt wa- 
ter until done, then drain off water, put a layer of spaghet- 
ti in baking dish, then a layer of meat preparation, then 
one of cheese and so on until the dish is filled. Serve hot. 
Boiled rice can be used instead of spaghetti. 

Mrs. William Turpin Spalding. 

Brunswick Stew, No. 1. 

Four chickens (nice fat hens), one calf liver, half dozen 
cans tomatos, 4 cans corn, lYz pounds good butter, half- 
gallon sweet milk, 1 lot of dry pod pepper, salt. Put chick- 
ens and liver in water with a lot of pepper to suit taste. 
You want it hot, but not too much (you will have to learn 
this by experience). Boil until meat leaves bones; then 
separate meat from bones. Put with liver in wooden ves- 
sel, and chop fine with chopping knife or grind in sausage 
mill. Then put back in same liquor cooked in, adding all 
other ingredients, and boil to right consistency. After add- 
ing corn and milk you will have to keep continually stir- 
ring with woden paddle to keep from scorching, as it is 
very easily scorched. Salt to taste. It takes about three 
hours to boil down after all ingredients are in. The above 
amount is enough for about a dozen people. A pint of port 
wine added just before it is served improves it. 

Park Woodward. 

Brunswick Stew, No. 2. 

Cook 3 pounds veal, 1 hen, 1 pound calf's liver until well 
done, then cut fine; add 2 large cans tomatoes, 2 cans corn, 
4 or 5 large onions, salt and pepper to taste and cook well 
together. Add Worcestershire sauce if liked. 

Mrs. Charles Turner. 

Braised Sw^eetbreads. 

Well wash the sweetbreads, soak in cold water for an 
hour, blanch for ten minutes and press slightly until cold; 
then cut away the sinewy fat and lard them. Place in 
stew pan with vegetables and stock and cover with greased 
paper; braise carefully from twenty to thirty minutes. 
Take up and put into the oven to brown the bacon ; strain 
the gravy and reduce to a good glaze. Dish the sweet- 
breads on a block of fried bread and pour the glaze over it. 
Garnish with a mixture of cooked ham or tongue, truf- 
fles and mushrooms, cut in large dice and warmed in a 
little of the glaze. Mrs. P. H. Baker. 



31 

CLOTHES HAMPERS and BASKETS of all kinds. King 
Hardware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

Cold Meat Rolls. 

Chop fine any scraps of cold meat, chicken, beef or ham, 
season well, add enough gravy or butter to moisten, form 
in rolls the size of the finger. Make a short dough of 1 
pint flour, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, J/2 teaspoon salt, 1 
generous tablespoon lard. Roll thin, cut in strips, fold 
about the meat rolls, keep shape regular and bake in quick 
oven. Mrs. R. F. Cox. 



POULTRY 



" 'Stufifed with all honourable virtues.' Much Ado About Noth- 
ing. 

"Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods — not hew him as a 
carcass." — Julius Caesar. 

Roast Turkey. 

Pick and draw with care, wash in several waters, wipe 
dry. In the next to last rinsing water put a teaspoonful of 
baking soda. Oftentimes the inside of a fowl is very sour, 
especially if not freshly killed. Soda is cleansing and cor- 
rects the acidity that we sometimes taste in the dressing 
when the fowls are not fresh. After rinsing with soda 
water dry well inside and out, rub some salt on inside, then 
stuff the breast and body with a good fowl dressing; sew 
up the turkey with a strong thread, tie the legs and wings 
to the body, rub it well all over with soft butter, sprinkle 
well with salt and pepper, dredge with a little CAPITOLA 
flour, place in a dripping pan, pour in cup of boiling wa- 
ter, cover entirely with a nice brown paper well greased, 
set in oven. Baste the turkey often , turning it around 
occasionally, so that every part will be uniformly baked. 
When pierced with a fork and the liquid runs perfectly 
clear, the turkey is done. Serve with cranberry sauce. The 
garnishes for turkey are fried oysters, slices of lemon, par- 
sley or force meat balls. 

Turkey Dressing. 

Cut the brown crust from slices or pieces of stale bread 
until you have as much as the inside of a pound loaf, put it 
in a suitable dish, and pour tepid water (not warm, for 
that makes it heavy) over it, let stand one minute, as it 
soaks very quickly. Now take up a handful at a time and 
squeeze it hard and dry with both hands, placing it as you 
go along in another dish. This process makes it very light. 
When all is pressed dry, toss it all up lightly through your 
fingers. Now add salt and pepper, about a teaspoonful, 
also a teaspoonful of powdered savory, the same amount 
of sage, or the green herb minced fine, add a half-cup of 
melted butter and a well-beaten egg, work thoroughly all 
together and it is ready to stufi" the fowl with. It is much 
improved by adding a pint of oysters without their beards. 

Turkey Gravy. 
When you put the turkey in to roast, put the neck, heart, 
liver and gizzard into a stew pan with a pint of water; boil 
until they are quite tender, take from water, chop the heart 



33 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER, the best spread for braed. 

and gizzard, mash the liver and throw away the neck, re- 
turn the chopped heart, gizzard and liver to the liquor in 
which they were stewed ; set to one side, and when the 
turkey is done this should be added to the gravy that 
dripped from the turkey, having first skimmed off the 
fat from the surface of the dripping pan ; set it all over the 
fire, boil three minutes and thicken with flour. It will not 
need brown flour to color the gravy. 

Chicken Croquettes, No. L 

One chicken about 3^ pounds, boil and put through a 
meat chopper, make a cream dressing, using two table- 
spoons of butter, two tablespoons CAPITOLA flour (heap- 
ing), put in a saucepan and let melt till hot and smooth, add 
one and a half cups of hot sweet milk, pour on chicken, 
season with chopped parsley, pepper, salt and lemon peel 
(grated), make into shapes, crumb, dip in egg crumb again 
and fry in hot COTTOLENE till a pretty brown. Serve 
hot. Mrs. S. R. Dull. 

Chicken Croquettes, No. 2. 

Put one pint cream (or milk) to boil, rub three table- 
spoons butter to same of CAPITOLA flour to a cream and 
add to boiling milk, stirring constantly, also add three well- 
beaten eggs. Above mixture must be very thick, and if not 
thick enough add more flour. When done set away to 
cool. Boil chicken, chop fine, add a pair of cooked sweet- 
breads, well chopped, and three hard boiled eggs ; mix 
when cold and season highly with one bunch of chopped 
parsley, one or two slices chopped onion, salt, red pepper 
and celery salt. Set- away in cool place and in short time 
roll in shape in cracker crumbs, fry in boiling COTTO- 
LEN7. Re sure to have grease deep enough to cover. Deep 
sauce pan best to use. Mrs. Ed Jervy. 

Chicken Cutlets. 

Take one large fowl, boil in water to cover, with a pinch 
of onion, carrot, half a bunch of thyme and parsley, a little 
cloves and grated nutmeg. When tender take off and cool. 
Chop rather fine, add three tablespoons blanched almonds 
chopped, one cup French peas, season with lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. Rub four tablespoons of CxA.PITOLA 
flour with two of butter and cook in a sauce pan without 
browning. Then add a cup of rich milk, half teaspoon of 



34 

USE BLUE VALLEY BUTTER in your desserts. 

salt, and a dash of white pepper, stir and cook sauce until 
rather thick, mix with the chicken mixture, cool and when 
very cold form into cutlets, small ; dip in beaten egg and 
stale bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve with mush- 
room sauce. This quantity serves twelve people. 

Mrs. E. C. Thrash. 

Chicken a la King. 

Three cups cooked chicken, 1 cup mushroms, 2 table- 
spoons each butter and CAPITOLA flour, 1 pint cream, 2 
pimentos, 3^ green pepper. 

Sauce — 1 cup butter, yolks 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon lemon 
juice, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 3^ teaspoon paprika. 

Cut chicken in cubes, pimentos and pepper fine, and 
mushrooms in small pieces. Melt butter in frying pan, 
add pepper and mushrooms, cook 3 or 4 minutes, stir in 
flour, cook until frothy, add cream, stir until it thickens, 
add chicken and pimentos, cover pan and set over hot wa- 
ter. 

For Sauce : Cream buter, beat into it the yolks, lemon 
and onion juice and paprika ; put this into the hot chicken, 
stirring until eggs thicken a little. Serve on toast. 

Mrs. Thomas M. Callaway. 

Chicken Mousse. 

Three cups of strong stock, strained ; one box gelatine 
dissolved in two-thirds pint of water, yolks of 6 eggs well 
beaten, 1 small glass sherry, 3 cups shredded chicken, 3 
cups whipped cream, whites of 9 eggs. Mix starch and gel- 
atine ; when this begins to congeal pour over the beaten 
yolks of eggs, add sherry, a little salt and red pepper, to 
taste, then cream, beating quickly, then egg folded in 
lightly, sprinkle in chicken. Mould in small cups or moulds, 
set in cold place to congeal. Serve with mayonnaise on 
lettuce leaf. This will serve twenty people. 

Mrs. Philip Dodd. 

Chicken on Pineapple. 

Prepare and broil your chicken just as when you serve 
it on toast, using pineapple in place of toast. Heat pine- 
apple well before placing the chicken on it. 

Mrs. Sam D. Jones. 

Chicken Parsa. 

Cut one boiled hen and two one-pound cans of mush- 



35 

Use BLUE VALLEY BUTTER and you will be satisfied. 

rooms together. Make a cream dressing of 3 cups sweet 
milk, 2 tablespoons CAPITOLA flour and lump of butter. 
Add two teaspoons Worcestershire sauce, the grated rind 
of one lemon and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the 
meat and mushrooms and serve hot in ramekins or tim- 
bales. Brains may be used instead of chicken, if desired. 

Mrs. D. B. Hamilton, Rome, Ga. 

Roast Young Chicken. 

One young chicken (frying size), one can of mushrooms, 
one-third glass port wine, 2 tablespoons Worcestershire 
sauce, 1 tablespoon vinegar, half a lemon, juice and rind, 
5 drops onion extract, 5 tablespoons butter, 1 patty of all- 
pork sausage, a dash of cayenne pepper, salt to taste. Open 
chicken in the back, put in covered pan on top of stove with 
all ingredients except mushrooms, cook slowly. When 
nearly done thicken gravy, add mushrooms, uncover and 
put in oven to finish. Baste frec[uently with gravy until 
thoroughly done (nearly two hours). Garnish with pars- 
ley. A bit of minced parsley ma}^ be added to gravy, which 
improves the flavor. 

Mrs. W. C. Jarnagin. 

Steamed Chicken With Mushrooms. 

Take half-grown chickens and put in a covered boiler 
and steam four or five hours. After they have steamed 
until almost tender add one can of mushrooms, cayenne 
pepper and salt to season and a heaping tablespoon of but- 
ter and one cup of sherry wine. Brown a few moments 
and serve. Old chickens cooked this way will be as ten- 
der as birds. Mrs. Charles Northen. 

Chicken Souffle. 

Ivielt one tablespoon butter in a sauce pan, stir into it one 
heaping tablespoon CAPITOLA flour, add slowly one tea- 
cup of milk, dash of cayenne pepper, half teaspoon salt, 
tablespoon lemon juice, some chopped parsley, or a table- 
spoon of onion juice may be added last. Pour this over 
3 well-beaten yolks of eggs, add one cup of finely cut chick- 
en, put back on the stove and cook for a moment or two. 
Remove from the fire, add the three well-beaten whites 

USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 



36 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER— you can risk it on your biscuit. 

of eggs, pour all into a pudding dish, and bake fifteen 
minutes. Serve at once. Mrs. Spencer R. Atkinson. 

Chestnut or Celery Stuffing for Poultry. 

One-half pint fine bread crumbs, one pint shelled and 
boiled French chestnuts, or celery chopped fine. Salt pep- 
per and chopped parsley to season ; one-half cup melted 
butter. Mrs. Eliza H. Paxon. 

Chicken Dressing. 

One loaf of stale bread, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 
small onion, pepper and salt to taste. Cut away all brown 
crust from bread, place loaf in bowl, covering with cold 
water, and allowing it to stand until bread is moist. Then 
drain and squeeze out all water possible from loaf. Slice 
onion very fine, put with butter in skillet over slow fire, 
being careful to prevent onion browning. When it is ten- 
der put bread into this, and add the eggs, pepper and salt. 
Stir until eggs are thoroughly mixed and cooked. 

Mrs. L. D. Watson. 

German Dressing. 

Make a plain egg bread, about 1 quart of meal, and 
bake. Remove the crust and to inside add 5 eggs, 1 pound 
seeded raisins, 3 apples (quartered and sliced), ^4 pound 
butter; salt and pepper (white) to taste. If after mixing 
you find too stiff moisten with stock in which duck or 
goose has been steamed. This is very fine. 

Mrs. Phil Dodd. 

Oyster Stuffing For Poultry. 

One-half pint fine bread crumbs, 1 pint small raw oys- 
ters, picked and washed. Salt, pepper and chopped parsley 
to season; one-half cup melted butter. 

Mrs. Charles Benson. 

Chafing Dish Birds. 

Dress and salt two dozen birds in chafing dish pan, breast 
up, on each of which place a lump of butter and piece of 
red pepper pod (take out the seed). After the butter has 
melted add a quart of mushrooms, a quart of port or sherry 
and juice of two lemons. Let the birds cook in this liquor 
two or three hours. Then remove the birds and to one-half 
pint of milk add a tablespoon or two of CAPITOLA flour, 



y^ ^ 

Use BLUE VALLEY BUTTER and you wUI be satisfied. 

pour this into the liquor, which makes a delicious gravy, 
pour over the birds. Serve on toast. 

Mrs. Clarence May. 
Stuffed Birds. 

Prepare birds as for baking. Pour two tablespoons vin- 
egar to six birds, sprinkle salt and pepper to taste, one- 
quarter pound of butter sliced and laid over birds. Set in 
hot oven, baste with gravy. Stuff with all-pork sausage. 

Mrs. George Brown. 



APPETIZERS 



"Variety's the spice of life that gives it all its flavor." — Cowper. 

Canape de Sardines. 

Cut oblong- lengths of toast, spread them with grated 
parmesan or switzer cheese; lay a boneless sardine, with a 
square of lemon on it, over each ; garnish with alternate 
rows of chopped olives, bird's-eye peppers and whites of 
hard boiled eggs. Grate yolks of hard-boiled eggs over all. 
Dress with mayonnaise if liked. Mrs. S. T. Marett. 

Caviar. 

Spread Russian caviar (which can be bought tinned) on 
slices of round or diamond-shaped toast or bread ; garnish 
with chopped beets and chopped parsley, making a circle 
of red surrounded by a circle of green. Chopped hard- 
boiled eggs may be used. Mrs. B. H. Dunn. 

Cheese and Peanut Butter Sandwiches. 

One pound of grated cheese, one glass of peanut butter, 
juice of two lemons, one-fourth of a teaspoonful red pep- 
per, two teaspoonfuls salt and enough hot water to make 
it thin enough to spread on well-buttered bread. 

Mrs. W. A. Walker, Milledgeville, Ga. 

Cheese Relish. 

\y2 pound cream cheese run through meat chopper or 
grate, 1 box gelatine, dissolve in cold water, just barely 
wet, then set in hot water until dissolved; 1 level teaspoon 
salt, dash of red pepper, 2 teaspoons sugar ^^ cup salad 
dressing. Cream all above ingredients well together, then 
add 4 pickles or green pimento and 1 small box red pimento, 
cut fine and mold. Mrs. H. Gray, Barnesville, Ga. 

Chicken and Ham Canape. 

Toast, lean boiled ham sliced very thin, a cup of cold, 
boiled or roasted chicken, neufchatel cheese, stuffed olives. 
Take heart-shaped pieces of toast, spread over each a thin 
layer of the neufchatel cheese. Over the cheese put a thin 
slic of ham, trimmed neatly to exactly cover the prepared 
toast. Mince and pound the cooked chicken with a table- 
spoonful of butter, a little prepared mustard and a dash of 
cayenne. Spread a layer of this preparation on top of the 
ham and decorate with slices of stuffed olives. 

Mrs. J. Cheston King, 



39 

PORCH SWINGS from $3.50 to $10.00. King Hardware Co., 
53 Peachtree St. 

Cucumber Sandwich. 

Put thin slice of cucumber between slices of bread, cov- 
ered with mayonnaise dressing. Miss Bagley. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Drain and skim the fish and rub into a paste, working in 
gradually a teaspoonful or so of melted butter, pepper, 
lemon juice and a little French mustard. Butter thin slices 
of bread, spread with the paste and double each slice upon 
the mixture. Mrs. Frank P. Rice. 

Spanish Pepper Sandwiches. 

Put thin slice of cucumber between slices of bread, cov- 
ered each slice. Pour liquid from peppers, run them 
through a chopper, salt to taste and then spread mixture 
between prepared slices of bread. Mrs. William Foster. 



USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 



SALADS 



"To make a perfect salad there should be a spendthrift for oil, 
a miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the 
ingredients and mix them well together." — Spanish Proverb. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Use canned asparagus, the best ; throw in cold water, 
drain, serve on lettuce leaves with French dressing. 

Mrs. Bun Wylie. 

Bemana Salad. 

Take ripe bananas whole from the skins, roll in mayon- 
naise, then in finely chopped nuts of all kinds, and serve on 
a crisp lettuce leaf. 

Mrs. Estelle Garrett Baker, 

Celer yand Almond Salad. 

One large bunch of celery, three-quarters of a pound of 
blanched almonds. Cut celery and nuts in small pieces and 
mix. Dressing: One well beaten egg, one even teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of corn starch, one teaspoonful of 
white pepper, one-half teaspoonful of mustard, three tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar; dissolve all in a little white wine vin- 
egar and let it come to a boil ; stir in piece of butter the 
size of an egg; when cold beat in a cup of sweet cream. 

Mrs. Charles F. Barnwell. 

Cheese Salad No. 1. 

One and one-half pints thick cream whipped very stiff; 
add cup or more yellow grated cheese, nine olives (stuffed 
ones preferred) chopped, shred one bell pepper, dissolve 
iy2 tablspoons of Knox's gelatine and add, when cool, 
using as little water as possible in dissolving; salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste ; pour in mould. Serve with mayon- 
naise on lettuce leaves. Mrs. L. R. McKeldin. 

Cheese Salad No. 2. 

One pint whipped cream, whipped very stiff; add cup or 
more yellow grated cheese, 9 olives (stuffed ones prefer- 
red), chopped, shred 1 bell pepper, dissolve 1>^ tablespoons 
Knox's gelatine and add when cool, using as little water 
as possible in dissolving; salt and cayenne pepper to taste; 
pour in mould. Serve with mayonnaise on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. Irvin E. Walker. 

Cherry Salad. 

Blance % pound almonds, seed 1 quart can of white 



41 

LIQUID VENEER is thefinest furniture polish. King Hard- 
ware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

cherries. Place an almond in each cherry, letting the end 
of nut protrude ; place eight cherries on white lettuce 
leaves. Serve with French dressing. 

Mrs. Mary Turner Jones. 

Chicken Salad. 

Put one large hen on to cook in boiling, salted water ; 
when tender allow it to cool, cut in blocks, rejecting gris- 
tle and skin ; chip fine four medium-sized heads of celery ; 
add half a pint of capers, one-half pint of whipped cream, 
2 teacups of mayonnaise, cut up 10 olives. Mix all thor- 
oughly, leaving mayonnaise and cream until just before 
serving. Keep cold and serve on lettuce leaves or in large, 
ripe tomatoes on lettuce leaves. Mrs. A. G. Smart. 

Newnan Corn Salad. 

Chop fine 1 large cabbage, 18 ears of corn (or 4 cans 
corn), 4 large onions, 8 green bell peppers, 4 red bell pep- 
pers, Yi pound mustard, 1 pound brown sugar, 4 large 
bunches celery, Yz cup of salt, vinegar to cover. When 
nearly cooked add 2 teaspoons tumeric. It is done when 
the green peppers turn brown. Seal in air tight jars. 

Mrs. W. E. Foster. 

Euclid Salad. 

Select nice red beets, not too large, scoop out the centers. 
They should be boiled first. Fill with neufchatel cheese, 
mixed with pimento, cut in small pieces ; olives chopped 
fine; add salt and pepper to taste, and enough mayonnaise 
to make smooth and creamy. Serve on lettuce leaf with a 
bit of mayonnaise on top ; 6 beets, 1 cheese, 1 box pimentos, 
a few olives will be enough for filling the beets. 

Mrs. Edgar Pou, Madison, Ga. 

Fruit Salad. 

One box gelatine, 7 cups water, 1 cup sugar, 1 small can 
white cherries, 1 can pineapple, 2 oranges, 2 lemons. When 
gelatine is cool, add fruit. Some of the fruit juice may be 
used in dissolving gelatine. Pour in flat pan and when 
congealed cut in l)locks and serve on lettuce leaf with 
mayonnaise. Mrs. L. G. Neal. 

USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 



- 42 ■ 

KING SCREEN DOpRS and WINDOWE keep cat flies 
and mosquitoes. King Hardware Co. 

Ginger Ale Scilad. 

Two tablespoons granulated gelatine, 2 tablespoons cold 
water, ^ cup boiling water, 2 cups ginger ale, Yx cup lemon 
juice, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup skinned and seeded Mal- 
aga grapes, 1-3 cup each of chopped celery and apple, 2 
tablespoons chopped Canton ginger, 4 tablespoons shredded 
pineapple. Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling 
water; add ginger ale, lemon juice and sugar. When mix- 
ture begins to set, add the rest of the ingredients, turn into 
molds and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Walter P. Stanley. 

Grape Fruit Salad. 

Put grape fruit on ice; just before serving cut out core 
and with spoon remove pulp and serve on heart lettuce 
leaves with French dressing. Have thoroughly cold. 

Mrs. Ashby Purse. 

Maraschino Cherry Salad. 

Stuff maraschino cherries with blanched almonds ; serve 
on leaves of heart lettuce with mayonnaise dressings. 

Mrs. John R. Hopkins. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil five or six good sized Irish potatoes. When cold 
cut in pieces about the size of dice ; to this add one bunch 
of celery, cut in the same size ; one good-size onion chop- 
ped fine and two bell peppers cut in small pieces. Mix all 
together with French dressing, enough to moisten the mix- 
ture thoroughly ; sprinkle in celery seeds and add more 
salt, if needed. Serve in white cabbage, after scooping out 
the center of cabbage enough to put in the salad. Put it 
in a dish of lettuce. ' Mrs. Will Hawkins. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Make first the following Russian dressing: Two large 
tablespoons Chile sauce, 2 chopped bell peppers, liquid from 
1 large tablespoon mustard pickles, 1 chopped dill pickle, 
Worcestershire sauce to taste, mix with 1 pint mayonnaise, 
pour over 3 pints cooked shrimps and mix well. Place on 
ice, let stand until ready to serve. Serve on lettuce, with 
spray of celery, a few olives and slice or two of tomatoes. 

Mrs. John B. Probasco. 



_^ 43 ^^ 

WATER COOLERS in every kind and size. King Hard- 
ware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

Shrimp and Celery Salad. 

Either fresh or canned shrimp ; the same quantity of 
crisp celery, cut in half-inch pieces. Mix and let stand in 
the following dressing for two hours : Two teaspoonfuls 
olive oil, two tablespoons lemon juice, one-half teaspoon 
(level) of salt, pinch of cayenne pepper, one-fourth tea- 
spoon (level) dry mustard, one teaspoon (level) powdered 
sugar. Drain, pile loosely on white hearts of lettuce ; 
crown with mayonnaise and serve very cold. 

Mrs. Edward H. Barnes. 

Shrimp and French Pea Salad. 

If canned shrimps are used, take 2 cans, prepare them 
by washing well in cold water, dry and remove intestinal 
vein running down center of back, break them in 3 or 4 
pieces, reserving whole seven of the most perfect ones. 
Saturate broken shrimp with French dressing. Drain liquor 
from 1 can French peas, saturate with French dressing, let 
stand one hour. Then drain both shrimp and peas, toss 
together and mix with mayonnaise. Serve in dish sur- 
rounded by endive or heart lettuce, garnish with whole 
shrimp and over all sprinkle finely chopped parsley. 

Mrs. J. G. Watters. 

Frozen Tomato Salad. 

Six firm tomatoes, 1 cucumber, 2 ripe, solid peaches, 1 
apple, tiny bit onion, 1 sweet pepper; shred all together. 
Pour over all 1 package lemon gelatine made up with one 
cup boiling water. Set on ice to become firm. Serve with 
mayonnaise. Mrs. O. E. Burton. 

Turkey Salad. 

Use one quart of turkey that has been on ice and is thor- 
oughly cold, cut in cubes, cut enough tender celery to make 
a quart, mix with turkey, add salt and pepper, have ready 
half of a pound of Jordan almonds, blanched, add them to 
the turkey and celery, put on ice till mayonnaise is made. 
Put the yolks of two eggs in cold bowl, acid one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of mustard, a dash of 
red pepper, add olive oil very slowly, stir one way only till 
you have used one and one-half cups of oil, add the juice of 
one lemon, when finished put over salad and serve on let- 
tuce leaf. Mrs. S. R. Dull. 



' 44 

DOZEY GLASS CHURNS enable you to make fresh but- 
termilk at home. King Hardware Co. 

Vegetable Salad. 

One pint cold peas, 1 pint cold snap beans, 1 pint cold 
butter beans, 3 beets, chopped fine ; 1 chopped cucumber. 
Slice tomatoes over top and serve on lettuce leaves, with 
French dressing. Miss Gladys Snook. 

Vegetable Salad. 

The best time to make this salad is right after a mid-day 
dinner in the summer time when you have had several dif- 
ferent kinds of vegetables. Let nice ripe tomatoes form 
the basis of the salad. These should be carefully peeled with 
a sharp knife vand cut up in bits about the size of a chest- 
nut. Add two or three tablespoons of snap beans or green 
peas, about the same amount of Irish potatoes, diced, an"d 
a slice of onion cut fine. Other vegetables, such as but- 
ter beans, may be used in the place of one of the above. 
Boiled beets give a dash of color which is pretty when you 
haven't the tomatoes. Make a good French dressing and 
pour over salad, mixing carefully so as not to break the 
pieces. Put in a cool place and serve on lettuce leaves. 
Mayonnaise may be used if preferred to French dressing. 

Mrs. Minnie Hillyer Cassin. 

Waldorf Salad. 

One and one-half cups pecans, one cup hard apples, not 
chopped too fine, one and one-half cups chopped celery. Put 
enough salad dressing to mix it and when ready to serve 
put lettuce leaf in salad plate and pour one or two table- 
spoons of dressing over it. Do not chop pecans too fine. 

Mrs. Edward Durant. 



SAUCES 



"It is tlu- bounty of nature that we live, but of philosophy that 
we live well."— Seneca. 

The sauce-maker who is successful must pay strict atten- 
tion to details, for upon them rests the delicate flavor so 
desirable. Nothing but the choicest materials must be used. 
The taste of stale and inferior ones cannot be disguised 
by profusely seasoning as some cooks imagine. To make a 
good sauce of the proper consistency, having the ingre- 
dients so proportioned that the presence of no particular 
one is perceptible, is an accomplishment of which any 
housewife may well be proud. The sweet sauce is to the 
pudding and similar dessert what the sauce picmante is to 
meats — it adds the finishing touch to the latter and accen- 
tuates the savoriness of the dish it accompanies. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Pick a quart of cranberries, wash and drain and put to 
boil in a sauce pan with half a teacupful of water. Stew 
slowly, stir often till thick. Take from the fire, strain 
through a sieve, sweeten abundantly with granulated sug- 
ar ; wet a mold with cold water, pour in the sauce and set 
away in a cool place to get firm, then turn out in a glass 
bowl. Eat with roast turkey, ducks, geese and game of 
any kind. Never sweeten while cooking, it injures the 
color. Mrs. R. J. Scott. 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

Two tablespoons butter, one tablespoon CAPITOLA 
flour, one-half cup vinegar, one cup sw^eet milk, one tea- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
a little pepper, yolks of two eggs. Mix the butter and 
flour together, heat it a little, add vinegar, salt, mustard, 
sugar (if liked); let this boil, then add milk; let this all 
boil then pour into the yolks of eggs ; stir fast. 

Mrs. Charles Nunnally. 

Cream Dressing, for Ssdads, Tomatoes, Lettuce, Etc. 

Yolks 8 eggs, 2. tablespoons dry mustard, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Beat these 
ingredients together until perfectly smooth. Add one pint 
of cream and cook in double boiler until as thick as desired, 
then add 1 pint of scalding vinegar and cook again until 
thick as cream. When perfectly cold add a little salt to 
taste. Mrs. L. G. Dean, Eufaula, Ala. 



46 

KING PADLOCK and NIGHT LATCHES keep out bur- 
glars. King Hardware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, 8 onions, 6 peppers, 8 coffee 
spoonfuls of salt, 1 tablespoon each of cinnamon, allspice 
and cloves. Boil all together ; seal while hot. Add 8 table- 
spoons each of nutmeg and sugar if preferred. 

Mrs. Sanford Parrott. 

French Dressing (Used for All Vegetable Salads). 

One salt spoonful of salt, one salt spoon half full of white 
pepper, a dash of paprika, three teaspoons of olive oil and 
one teaspoon of vinegar or lemon juice. If you like the 
flavor of onion rub bottom of bowl with a slice of onion. 

Mrs. George W. McCarty. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Two eggs (yolks only), 1 pint oil, V2 teaspoon salt, V2 tea- 
spoon dry mustard, dash cayenne pepper, juice of one large 
lemon ; have oil and eggs cold. Put eggs in bowl with salt, 
pepper and mustard, beat with Dover egg-beater until stiff'. 
Add oil slowly at first. Dressing soon begins to thicken, 
and then oil can be added much faster. When half the 
quantity is used add some lemon juice, then rest of oil and 
lemon juice, until all is used. Mrs. Albert Spalding. 

Plum Sauce. 

Cover plums with water and boil till tender. Drain oft' 
juice and to 5 pounds plums add 3 pounds sugar, 1 cup vin- 
egar, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 1 teaspoon all kinds of pre- 
ferred spices. Boil 30 minutes. Juice can be used for 
making jelly. Mrs. W. A. Baker, Griffin, Ga. 

Salad Dressing No. 1. 

Take two hard-boiled eggs, lay them into cold water 
until quite cold, put the yolks into a 'small bowl, mash the 
eggs very fine, add the yolks of two raw eggs, one large 
tablespoon of dry mustard, a very little cayenne pepper. 
Stir this well, always one way ; when well-mixed add a 
very little" sweet oil, stirring all the time. After this is 
mixed well put in more, very little at a time, until you 
have used a third of a bottle, then add a large spoonful of 
vinegar, then more oil, using in all two-thirds of a bottle 
of oil, then another spoonful of vinegar. When mixed it 
must be very light and a good color. Set it on the ice for 
two or three hours. Not more than twenty minutes before 
using the salad mix it and prepare for the table by putting 
%vith the meat about half of the dressing; stir it up well. 



KING BEE and GURNEY REFRIGERATORS are buJlt for 
small ice consusnption. King Hardware Co. 

then turn on to the meat one wine glass full of vinegar ; 
stir this up well, it will turn the chicken very white. If it 
requires a little more salt add it now. Place the chicken 
in the center of a flat dish large enough to lay the lettuce 
or celery around the meat. Wipe the lettuce as dry as you 
can and lay it around the meat with a spoon ; put the rest 
of the dressing on the lettuce or celery. 

Mrs. Junius Millard. 

Tar tare Sauce. 

Half a pint of mayonnaise, 3 olives, 6 cucumbers, 1 small 
onion, chopped fine ; add to this half cup of cider vinegar ; 
mix well. Mrs. John Hill. 

Salad Dressing No. 2. 

Melt 4 tablespoons burter in a sauce-pan, add 1 table- 
spoon CAPITOLA flour, rub smooth, then add 1 cup fresh 
sweet milk and let this mixture boil up. Have ready three 
well beaten eggs, to which have been added 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon dry mustard and 
1 pinch cayenne pepper. (It is well to mix these dry in- 
gredients together before adding to eggs to prevent lump- 
ing) ; beat thoroughly with eggs, and add fi cup vinegar. 
Add all this to the boiling milk, and stir constantly until it 
begins to thicken like boiled custard, which will be from 3 
to 5 minutes. This will keep for two weeks in a cool place. 
When wanted for use add whipped cream to taste. 

Mrs. Lucy L. Olive, Stone Mountain, Ga. 

Ante-Bellum Tomato Catsup. 

Wash and mash tomatoes and strain through sieve. To 
every gallon of juice add 1 quart of vinegar, 2 tablespoons 
of ground mustard, 2 of ground pepper, 2 of salt, 2 of whole 
allspice, and 2 of cloves. Then add 2 large onions cut very 
fine, 3 pods green pepper cut fine and 1 teacup sugar. Boil 
until thick, adding more vinegar if necessary. 

Mrs. A. P. Grift'en, Stone Mountain, Ga. 

Brown Tomato Sauce. 

Brown three tablespoons of butter with a slice of onion. 
Add four tablespoons of CAPITOLA flour and stir and 
cook until well browned. Then add one cup of rich brown 
stock, highly seasoned, and a half a cup of tomato puree. 
When boiling add salt and pepper as needed and a half cup 
o fwhipped cream. Serve with cutlets of veal or baked 
fish. Mrs. Bernard Wolfe. 



VEGETABLES 



"Simple diet is best, for many dishes bring many diseases." 

Have all vegetables as fresh as possible, trim carefully 
and put in cold water for at least half an hour before cook- 
ing. 

Baked Beans. 

One quart navy beans, two-thirds cup molasses, dimes' 
worth of salt pork, 1 tablespoon salt, pepper to taste, H 
spoon mustard. Soak beans over night in cold water. Par- 
boil them in salted water, very slowly, four hours. Put in 
bean pot alternately, a layer of beans, pork, molasses, with 
the pepper and mustard. Bake slowly five hours. 

Mrs. A. E. Wheeler. 

Baked Cabbage. 

One head of cabbage boiled in salt water till tender, take 
out and chop fine — three eggs well beaten, add about half 
a cup of sweet milk, a litle butter and black pepper, pour 
over cabbage and bake. Mrs. E. G. Thomas. 

Com Fritters. 

Maek a batter of 2 tablespoons CAPITOLA flour, 2 eggs, 
1 tablespoon milk, 1 teaspoon butter, season with salt and 
pepper, and into this mix one can of corn. Drop by spoon- 
fuls into boiling COTTOLENE. Mrs. E. G. Akin. 

Fresh Com Timbal. 

Grate 1 dozen ears of corn, then beat the yolks of 4 eggs 
and mix with corn ; season with salt and a little pepper, 
and then stir in the beaten whites of the eggs. Put 
mixture in buttered timbal cups and steam for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. The timbal cups should be placed in pan 
of water and covered and the steaming done in the oven. 

These timbals are very delicious served with creamed 
fresh lima beans. Mrs. Benj. Elsas. 

Corn and Tomatoes. 

To six large peeled tomatoes add one medium size onion, 
a teaspoon sugar, small piece butter, salt and pepper to 
taste and a pinch of soda. Chop the onions and tomatoes 
and add about one quart of green corn. Cook till done ; 
garnish with rings of green pepper. Mrs. H. C. Rehm. 

Eggplant Fritters. 

One medium size eggplant peeled, boiled and mashed, 1 



49 

TENNIS RACKETS, BALLS and NETS. King Hardware 
Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

egg, 1 tablespoon CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon butter, sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Mix all ingredients together, 
drop in spoonfuls in bt)iling COTTOLENE. 

Mrs. H. G. Fennell. 

Stuffed Egg Plant. No. 1. 

To 1 egg plant add 4 hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, 1 
tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cut out inside 
pulp, place in salt water 1 hour, then place in fresh water 
enough to cover, boil until tender, mash up and add all the 
above ingredients ; replace in skins, cover with cracker 
crumbs and bake until a light brown color. Serve hot. 

Mrs. E. L. Connally. 

Stuffed Egg Plant. No. 2. 

• Par boil large egg plant in boiling, salted water 10 min- 
utes. When cold, cut in half lengthwise, scrape out center, 
leaving walls of the vegetable ^ inch thick. Chop pulp 
fine, add to it a small cup minced chicken, j^ cup minced 
ham, % cup bread crumbs, a tablespoon melted butter, 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix well ; add enough soup stock 
to make stiff paste and fill the hollow sides with this. When 
full and rounded high, sprinkle with bread crumbs, lay 
halves in bake pan, pouring 3 cups of soup stock around 
them. Bake nearly an hour, basting every 10 minutes. Re- 
move egg plant, thicken gravy left in pan with browned 
CAPITOLA flour, boil up once, stirring constantly, and 
pour same about the base of the halved egg plant. 

Mrs. Frank P. Rice. 

Green Peas and Sweetbreads in Timbales. 

Soak your sweetbreads and shred them, place them with 
small canned French peas in a vessel and stir lightly, pour 
in a little water, cook and add cream sauce and serve in 
timbales. This can be made the same way with brains in- 
stead of sweetbreads. 

Mrs. George Sciple. 

Stuffed Green Peppers. 

Boil 2 pounds round steak until thoroughly done. Then 
grind fine and season highly with peper, salt and a little 
lemon juice; add 2 bunches of celery, cut fine, and 2 well 
beaten eggs. Moisten with a very rich thick cream sauce ; put 
into the peppers, cover with grated cracker crumbs and 
butter, and brown in hot oven. It is better to set the pep- 



50 

CRYSTAL GLASS ICE CREAM FREEZERS freeze with- 
out turnmg. Price, $L25. King Hardware Co. 

pers in a pan with about an inch of water in the bottom. 
Chicken ma}- be substituted for the steak. 

Mrs. Logan ]\L Cri'chton. 

Hopping John. 

One pound bacon, 1 pint red peas, 1 pint rice. First put 
on peas, when half boiled add bacon. When peas are done 
throw in the rice (well washed) boil ^ hour, then put on 
back of stove to steam as when boiling rice alone. Put 
1 quart of water on peas at first and if it boils away too 
much add little hot water. Season with salt and pepper. 
In serving put the rice and peas first in the dish, and the 
bacon on top. 

"Skipping Kate," another Charleston dish, sister to Hop- 
ping John, is made like it, using grits instead of rice. 

Mrs. J. Allen Miles, Charleston, S. C. 

Okra Fritters. 

Two cups cold boiled okra, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon CAPI- 
TOLA flour, 1 level teaspoon butter, salt and pepper to 
season. Stir all together, fry in boiling COTTOLENE. 

Mrs. S. C. Dinkins. 

French Peas V\/Ith Lamb Chops. 

Hollow out a Vienna loaf of bread, lill with hot French 
peas, serve in chop dish dressed with parsley, stack chops 
around the loaf with bone end up. Dress hones with chop 
papers. Serve ver}^ hot. JMrs. A. G. Oglesby.' 

Caramel Potatoes. 

Boil sweet potatoes in salted water. Peel and cut in 
rather thick slices ; dip each slice into melted butter then 
roll it in a stilT syrup of melted brown sugar and water, 
put in the oven to glaze. Mrs. W. W .Landrum. 

Yams A la Marshmallows. 

Select 8 medium potatoes, wash, place in boiler, with 
water enough to cover. Boil until thoroughly done, re- 
move, peel, wash, and prepare as follows : Pour into po- 
tatoes this mixture : 2 well beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 
cup sweet milk, 1 teasjoon vanilla, heat. Put all into 
baking dish, or casserole, bake until brown. Cover over 
top with marshmallows and brown a light, rich color. 

(Mrs.) Marie Bowen Cason. 



51 

All kinds of ATHLETIC GOODS. King Hardware Co., 
53 Peachtree St. 



Cold Slaw. 

Cut cabbage very fine, cook together 1 egg well beaten. 
1 teaspoon sugar, salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon butter, ^/^ cup 
vinegar, to consistency of cream, pour on cabbage and 
set aside to cool. Mrs. E. G. Thomas. 

Spaghetti. 

Break the spaghetti into salted, boiling water, let boil 
until tender and drain. Into a granite boiler put a tablespoon 
of butter, cut a small onion into shreds, fry in the butter 
until a light browm, add a quart can of tomatoes, season 
with pepper and salt, and if acid, add a pinch of soda. 
Cook to a sauce and pour over spaghetti. Then add a half 
green pep])er, cut fine, a dash of tobasco and 54 pound 
of cheese cut into dice. Stir often and as soon as cheese 
melts set over hot water until ready to serve. 

Mrs. Fanny Clarkson. 

Stuffed Squash. 

Take the small-sized, scalloped squash, cut off top. scrape 
out, leaving shell unbroken. Cook pulp, seasoning well with 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Fill shells with this, add- 
ing bread crumbs, finishing top with crumbs snd small 
piece of butter. Bake. Mrs. W. T. Crenshaw. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Select as many tomatoes as you need, cut ofif stem end 
and remove pulp. Fill with macaroni which has been 
boiled, grated cheese and a little of the juice of tomatoes ; 
season with pepper and salt. Add a small lump of butter 
to each tomato. Bake in moderate oven ^ hour. 

Mrs. Kennedy. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take smooth, round tomatoes, allowing one for each per- 
son, chill thoroughly. With a sharp knife cut oft" a thin 
slice from the top. Scoop out tomato with spoon or dull 
knife. Take cjuarter of a chopped onion for each tomato, 
some chopped celery, green pepper, bread crumbs and Jic 
inside of tomato. Season highly with salt, pepper, ^ tea- 
spoon of good sauce and pinch of baking powder, mixing 
these ingredients thoroughly. Fill tomatoes almost full, 
covering them with the cut-oft" slice. Place in pan con- 
taining a cup of water, bake for 20 minutes. Serve on 
lettuce leaves. Mrs. W. Gordon Burnett. 



MISCELLANEOUS 

"Now good digestion wait on appetite, and liealth on both." 
— Shakespeare. 

Salted Almonds. 

Pour boiling water over almonds, let stand several min- 
utes ; blanch, wipe and place where they will drp ; put a 
lump of butter in a pan on top of stove, stir in the alrnonds 
and when they are thoroughly glazed place in the oven and 
color delicately. Take out, spread on white paper and 
sprinkle freely with fine table salt ; eat cold. Peanuts are 
delicious prepared the same way. 

Mrs. Peter Erwin. 

Cheese Fosidis, or English Monkey. 

One cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup fine bread 
crumbs, 2 cups finely grated cheese. First put in butter, 
then cheese, then milk, then bread crumbs. When hot add 
2 well-beaten eggs. Stir the eggs in slowly, and do not 
let it boil up after adding. Cook slowly for alpout 2 minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper and serve on saltines. 

Miss Bagley. 

Scalloped Cheese. 
Take 3 slices of bread, well-buttered, first cutting ofif 
the brown outside, grate fine ^ pound of any good cheese, 
lay the bread in layers in a buttered baking dish. Sprinkle 
over it the grated cheese, salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
4 well-beaten eggs with 3 cups milk, pour it over the bread 
and cheese. Bake in a hot oven. This makes an ample 
dish for 6 people. Mrs. John A. Morris. 

Cheese SoufHe. No. 1. 

Three tablespoons CAPITOLA flour, 3 tablespoons but- 
ter, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup grated cheese, seasoning to 
taste. Blend butter and flour in a sauce pan, add milk 
and stir until boiling; cook 3 minutes. Stir in cheese and 
yolks of eggs beaten until thick. Fold in the stifliy-beaten 
whites of eggs and bake in a greased dish about 25 minutes. 
Serve quickly as it soon falls. Mrs. E. M. Yow. 

Cheese Souffle. No. 2. 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter, add 3 tablespoons CAPITOLA 
flour and stir until well blended ; pour on gradually, stirring 
constantly, ^ cup sweet milk. Bring this to boiling point, 
add y^ cup grated cheese, Yz teaspoon salt, a few grains 
cayenne. Remove from stove and add the yolks of 2 well- 



^53 

BROOMS, MOPS, FEATHER DUSTERS, WOOL DUST- 
ERS. King Hardware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

beaten eggs, fold in whites beaten stiff and dry. Put mix- 
ture in pan of hot water or double boiler and cook until 
firm throughout. Serve on crackers or squares of wdiite 
bread. Mrs. W. A. Prout, Ba'rnesville, Ga. 

Cheese Straws, 

Six heaping kitchen-spoons each of CAPITOLA flour 
and grated cheese, 2 tablespoons butter melted, after meas- 
uring, a little grated nutmeg, a very little cayenne pepper, 
sW'Cet milk enough for a thick dough. j\Iix well, roll thin, 
cut in straws ; bake in biscuit pan. Mrs. S. E. Smith. 

A Deliciouss Jam. 

Take 1 cup of large, fine raisins, seed them, and put in a 
sauce pan with 1 quart of cold water. Let this boil until 
the mixture is reduced to a pint, then add 4cups of cran- 
berries and 2^'2 cups of sugar. Boil until it becomes the 
consistency of jam. Mrs. George W. McCart3^ 

Orange Straws. 

Rind of 1 orange sliced in strips, boil tender ; mix cup of 
the water that orange has been boiled in and 1 cup of sugai", 
put strips in and boil. When tender take out and roll in 
powdered sugar. Airs. M. A. Fall. 

Pear Conccrvo. 
Good pound of green pears, 1 pound of sugar, 2 quarts 
of cranberries, 1 pound of raisins (seedless), 2 oranges; 
wash berries, peel pears and cut up hne, use skin on 
oranges, only seed each and cut in pieces. Put . il togciher 
and boil until tender. About Yz hour, be careful not to 
burn. This conserve is very good to serve w^ith any kind 
of meat. Mrs. E. N. Erickson, Plaintield, N. J. 

Tomato Jelly. 

Three-fourths box gelatine, y^, cup cold water, 1 can 
tomatoes, Yz onion, 1 stalk celery, 2 tablespoons tarragon 
vinegar, 1 bay leaf, 2 cloves, dash cayenne pepper. Soften 
the gelatine 5 minutes in the cold water; cook together 
the other ingredients, except the vinegar, 10 minutes ; add 
the vinegar and softened gelatine and stirr well until dis- 
solved, then pass through a sieve fine enough to keep the 
seeds back. Pour into a mold and set in a cool place to 
form. English walnuts may be added if liked. 

Mrs. John A. Morris. 



• 54 

OUR ENAMELED WARE is all first quality. King Hard- 
ware Co., 53 Peachtree St. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

One pound grated cheese, 1 tablespoon tobasco sauce, 1 
tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 1 egg, butter size of egg. 
Put in butter first, then grated cheese ; after well melted 
put in egg, stir fast and then add 1 glass of beer. Stir 
briskly until smooth and consistency of cream. 

Mrs. J. B. Ponder. 



PICKLES 

Ax Jar Pickles. 

One gallon vinegar, 2 pounds sugar, 2 l)oxe_s mustard, 2 
ounces white mustard seed, 2 ounces each kind of spice, 
2 dozen small onions, 2 ounces turmeric, salt to taste. Mix 
carefully together, as you gather fresh and tender vege- 
tables each morning wash and drop them into the above 
mixture in a large jar. Small melons, beans, tomatoes, 
cauliflower, cucumbers, gherkins and very tenderest corn 
mav be used. If the mixture begins to ferment add a little 
sug'ar. ^liss Nannie McCall, Quitman, Ga. 

Brandied Cherries. 

Select large cherries, pick carefully, wash and steam. 
Take glass jars and place an inch layer of granulated sugar 
in the bottom. Then add a layer of fruit and so on m 
alternate layers until the jars are well-filled and tightly 
packed. Fill to the top with white rum. See that it fills 
every crevice. Screw on the tops of the jars and place 
them in a vessel with cold water coming nearly to the tops 
of them. Set on the stove and let water come gradually to 
a boil. Boil >4 hour. Remove when cool, tighten tops 
and put in a cool, dark place. 

Mrs. William J. Armistead. 

Brandy Peaches. 

One pound of fruit to 1 pound of sugar, >4 pint of water 
to every 3 pounds of sugar. Peel fruit; when syrup is 
boiling hot put in the peaches. Allow them to remain 
until thoroughly scalded then put on a slab to cool. Look 
the syrup until it begins to rope, then take off and let cool. 
When cool add equal quantities of the syrup and white rum, 
then the fruit; seal in jars. Mrs. George Brown. 

Cabbage Pickles. 

Pull the cabbage to pieces, leaf by leat ; put mto a bowl 

over night, a layer of cabbage and a layer of salt. Next day 

wash off all the salt you can. Have boihng 2 quars of 

vinegar, 1 pint of sugar with spices to taste. Put the cab- 

bage^n jars, or a large stone jar is better, pour boilmg 

vinegar over them, cover tightly while hot. Don t cut the 

leaves until ready to put on the table. 

leaves unu y ^^^^^ McCall, Quitman, Ga. 

Corn Salad Pickle. 

(Five Quarts.) . , o 

Eighteen ears green corn, /^ pound Coleman s mustard, 2 



56 

FAMILY SCALES in all kinds and sizes. King Hardware 
Co., 53 Peachtree. 

pounds brown sugar, 4 large onions, 2 green peppers, 2 red 
peppers, Yz cup salt, 1 large cabbage, 2 quarts hot vinegar, 
2 bunches celery. Cut off corn and scrape, chop all vege- 
tables and mix together. Cook till peppers turn brown, 
color with 1 cup tumeric. Put in jars while hot and seal. 

Mrs. J. W. Watters, Albany, Ga. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Use those that are tender and of quick growth. Place 
any number of small cucumbers in a stone crock, cover 
with a strong brine ; let stand 3 days then draw off brine 
and cover with clear water ; drop in a piece of alum the 
size of a walnut ; let stand 24 hours. Put 1 gallon of vine- 
gar, 1 tablespoon each of whole black peppers and cloves 
on stove and when hot drop in a few cucumbers at a time. 
When they are thoroughly hot pack in jars and cover with 
fresh vinegar with a little sugar and a few cloves added. 

Mrs. Kate Brooks, Quitman, Ga. 

Sweet Peach Pickles. 

Take firm peaches, drop them into scalding water made 
very strong with soda. This causes skin to slip. Scald a 
minute or two then rub with a rough cloth until clear of 
skin. Drop them into cold water while waiting for vine- 
gar. Take 1 quart of vinegar and 1 pint of sugar, let come 
to a hard boil, then drop in the peaches ; allow them to boil 
2 minutes. Put them in jars and pour boiling vinegar over 
them. Put in cloves as you fill can while hot. This makes 
an elegant firm pickle. Mrs. Albert Tidwell. 

Spiced Pears. 

To 8 pounds of fruit put 6 pounds of sugar, 3 pints of 
vinegar, 2 tablespoons cloves, 1 tablespoon cinnamon. Make 
the syrup and put in fruit ; boil the fruit until tender, put 
in a jar; pour syrup over it and seal. 

Mrs. S. H. Collinsworth. 

Sliced Tomato Pickle. 

One peck green tomatoes, 6 large onions sliced thin, 1 
pound brown sugar, 2 red pepper pods, 2 tablespoons each 
black mustard seed, white mustard seed and celery seed, 1 
handful allspice, 1 heaping teaspoon prepared horse radish 
wet in water, 3^ teacup dry mustard mixed with vinegar. 
Cut tomatoes in thin slices, let stand over night in salt, wash 
thoroughly in 2 or 3 waters next morning, add other in- 



57 

ROGERS 1847 SILVER WARE wears like Sterling and 
costs much less. King Hardware Co. 

gredients, cover the whole until tender with 3^ gallon 
vinegar. Mrs. Banks Williamson, Burlington, N. C. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. No. 1. 

Slice tomatoes and put in brine for 3 or 4 days, then soak 
in fresh water, scald in lime water, take up and pour cold 
water on, then weigh to every 2 pounds tomatoes 1 pound 
sugar and 1 pint vinegar. Add allspice, ginger and cloves 
to taste. When juice boils put in tomatoes and boil ^ hour. 

Mrs. Louise Spalding Foster. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. No. 2. 

Peel and slice 1 peel of green tomatoes, sprinkle with 
salt and let stand over night. To 1 gallon of vinegar add 
1/^ pounds of sugar, 2 tablespoons white mustard seed, }4 
teaspoon celery seed and a little allspice. Put all on stove, 
when hot add tomatoes and cook very slowly till tender. 
Onions may be added if liked. Mrs. Albert Tidwell. 

• Mostard Vegetable Pickle. 
Take fresh vegetables, such as small white onions, arti- 
chokes, young snap beans, green tomatoes, cucumbers, etc., 
cover with salt water and let stand for 3 days ; remove 
from brine, cover with vinegar, let stand for 3 days longer, 
then remove from vinegar and put into following mixture : 

1 gallon vinegar, 1 pound each ground mustard and white 
mustard seed, 2 ounces tumeric, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 

2 tablespoons each cinnamon, ginger and allspice, 1 table- 
spoon each ground black pepper and cloves, a good dash 
of cayenne, 4 tablespoons celery seed, 4 teasups brown 
sugar, 1 teacup horse radish. Mix thoroughly, let stand 
2 or 3 days before using. Mrs. J. D. Frazier. 

Wa":ermelcn Pickles. No. 1. 
Peel and slice rind in size for pickling. Soak 12 hours 
in weak lime water then 12 hours in fresh water, then boil 
tender in ginger tea. To 1 pound of fruit put ^ pound 
sugar. Put in the boiler and cover with vinegan ; drop in 
cloves, mace and cinnamon. Boil until a straw will go 
through, but don't let fruit cook soft. 

Mrs. J. G. McCall. 

Watermelon Pickles. No. 2. 

Pare watermelon rind until less than ^4 oi an inch thick. 
Boil in clear water until tender enough to pierce with a 



58 

SCISSORS, SHEARS, POCKET KNIVES, KITCHEN 
KNIVES, SPATULA. King Hardware Co. 

straw. Keep well covered with water while boiling. When 
tender remove from water, cover well with white vinegar. 
To each quart of vinegar add 5 cups sugar. Tie in a thin 
white cloth 1 teaspoon whole spice, 3^ teaspoon cloves, 1 
stick cinnamon and cook with pickle. If syrup boils down 
too much add more vinegar and sugar. 

Mrs. J. L. Moore, Hampton, Ga. 



DESSERTS 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestial pies." 

O. W. Holmes. 
"An't please your Honour," quoth the peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant." 

— Pope. 

Pastry. 

One cup of shortening, lard and butter mixed, or all lard. 
Three cups of CAPITOLA flour, a little salt; sift the flour, 
add the salt and rub in the shortening. Use enough water 
or sweet milk to hold all together;* handle as little as pos- 
sible. Roll from you. One-third of this quantity is suf- 
ficient for 1 pie. All biscuit dough and pastry is improved 
by placing in the refrigerator an hour or more before using. 

Chocolate Pie. 

Grate Yz tea cup of chocolate, put in sauce pan with cup 
hot water, butter size of an ^^^, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup 
sugar, beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 
dissolved in as much water. Mix well, cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Pour into pie shells and let cool. Make 
meringue of the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff with 2 table- 
spoons powdered sugar. Spread on pie and brown slightly. 

Miss Ruby Scruggs. 

Individual Pies. 

Roll rich pastry very thin, cut with biscuit cutter, bake 
in quick oven. Cook down fresh apple sauce until it is 
almost candied, spread about 3^ inch thick on the baked 
pielettes and sprinkle grated cheese over top. Serve hot 
or cold. Mrs. T. O. Headen, East Point, Ga. 

Lemon Custard Pie. 

Twelve ounces CAPITOLA flour, 6 ounces lard. Mix 
with ice water and teaspoon salt, 8 heaping teaspoons corn 
starch dissolved in nearly cup of milk, then pour on 2 
pints boiling water, put on fire and stir briskly until clear ; 
add 2 cups sugar, 4 ounces butter, beaten yolks 4 eggs, 
rind and juice 2 large lemons. Cook until sufficiently thick. 
Meringue — Whites 4 eggs and 4 tablespoons pulverized 
sugar. This makes 4 pies. Bake crust separate ; pour on 
custard filling, then meringue and put in stove long enough 
to brown. Mrs. Robt. L. Turman. 

Mock Mince Pie. 

One-half cup syrup, ^4 cup water, y^, cup vinegar, 1 cup 



60 

BLUE RIBBON FLAVORING EXTRACTS. "Best and 

takes less." 

sugar, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup chopped raisins, ^ cup 
currants, teaspoon cloves, teaspoon cinnamon, tablespoon 
butter, tablespjoon suet. Stew all together until thick. 
When cool add 3 apples chopped fine, put between crusts, 
bake and serve with cream. Mrs. Albert Tidwell. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Have the pumpkins boiled until you can mash them ; then 
use 4 cups of the strained pumpkin, 6 eggs, 3 cups sugar. 
Beat with the eggs 1 cup butter, 2 cups sweet milk, 5 tea- 
spoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons ginger, 3 teaspoons allspice, 
1 nutmeg. The pastry is made of CAPITOLA flour in 
water, lard, etc. Do not put top on pie. 

Mrs. Howard McCall. 

Strawberry Meringue Pie. 

Stew berries with sugar, mash through a sieve, add to the 
beaten white of an egg. Bake a rich pie crust, spread the 
berries on it, brown and serve. Mrs. D. R. Wilder. 

Basket Pudding (Pretty for Easter). 

Bake sponge cake in a long sheet and cut in inch-wide 
strips, when cool enough to handle weave these into a 
basket, running a long thin strip across the top for a 
handle, on which tie a few jonquils and ferns. Fill with 
frozen cream, moulded into eggs, and serve with hot cara- 
mel sauce, filled with English walnuts. Sauce — Melt one 
pound of maple sugar in ^ teacup of hot water ; add 1 cup 
brown sugar and boil until thick ; season with vanilla and 
add 1 cup nut meats. Mrs. Sam D. Jones. 

Bread Pudding. 

Materials — One loaf bread (remove crust) 4 eggs, 1 pint 
sweet milk, a good pinch of salt. Beat eggs together until 
very light. Add milk. Crumble bread into the mixture, 
lastly, put in salt. Dip a cloth in hot water, wring partially 
dry then sift CAPITOLA flour on one side to keep pudding 
from leaking. Having tied mixture in this cloth place in 
boiling water and boil steadily for 3 hours. Eat with but- 
ter and sugar sauce. We often add currants, raisins or 
fresh apples to the above. This receipt has been in the 
Tripp family of Beaufort, S. C, for 60 years, and is most 
delicate and delightful. Mrs. W. D. Ellis. 



61 

The best cooks use BLUE RIBBON FLAVORING EX- 
TRACT. "Best and takes less." 

Batter Pudding. 

One quart boiling milk, 5 tablespoons CAPITOLA flour, 
and 5 tablespoons milk mixed together ; 5 eggs beaten sep- 
arately. Whites beaten stiff, then mix with batter and 
last the boiling milk. Bake 15 or 20 minutes. Serve with 
hard sauce. Sauce — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter 
beaten to a cream. Mrs. Henry Hynds. 

Delmonico Pudding. 

One pound marshmallows, quartered, 1 cup pecan nuts, 
cut small, small bottle Maraschino cherries, cut in two ; soak 
this over night in 12 teaspoons sherry wine ; 1 pint cream 
whipped with tablespoon powdered sugar. Just before 
serving fold cream into fruit ; put cherries on top. 

Mrs. Allison Greene. 

An Excellent Pudding. 

One quart sweet milk, 3 tablespoons corn starch, 1 tea- 
spoon lemon extract, sugar to taste, a pinch of salt. Let 
milk come to a boil ; mix corn starch with a little cold 
milk, add this and other ingredients to hot milk, boil 3 
minutes. Take from fire and stir in well-beaten whites of 
3 eggs. Mrs. P. T. Manson. 

Feather Pudding. 

Four eggs beaten separately, Yz cup of CAPITOLA flour, 
2 tablespoons sugar, 1 pint sweet milk made into blanc 
mange. Stir in yolks when blanc mange is cold. Stir in 
whites last. Bake in pan in double boiler. Serve with 
sauce; flavor to taste. Mrs. J. S. Mabry. 

Kiss Pudding. 

One quart milk, 4 eggs, 5 tablespoons CAPITOLA flour, 
Yi cup sugar. Put milk on stove in double boiler, beat 
yolks, sugar and flour together, thinning with a little milk. 
Put 1 teaspoon baking powder in this. When the milk 
has come to boiling point pour slowly into the eggs, stir- 
ring constantly. The'n put back on stove, cook until thick 
enough; stir incessantly to keep from lumping. Bdat 
whites of eggs to stiff froth; put in 4 tablespoons sugar. 
Flavor this and custard to taste. Mrs. J. S. Mabry. 

Marshmallow Pudding. 

Put 1 tablespoon gelatine in 1 gill cold water, heat till 
dissolved, add another gill cold water, se taside. Beat 



62 

Blue Ribbon Flavoring Extract, the successful result of 
twenty years. 

whites 4 eggs stiff, add gradually 1 pint sugar and gelatine 
alternately. Flovor with orange or any desired flavoring. 
Divide into 3 parts, coloring one part pink. Line square 
mould with paper, spread on bottom one part white mix- 
ture, sprinkle over it, finely chopped English walnuts and 
candied pineapple, then spread pink part, sprinkling nuts, 
etc. over it, then other white part. When congealed in- 
vert into a dish and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. S. T. Ryley, Lexington, Ky. 

Montreal Pudding. 

One pound bread crumbs, 3 pounds sugar, 6 eggs, 1 pint 
milk, 1 pound raisins, Yz pound pecans. Mix well and 
steam 3 hours. Miss Maude Scruggs. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Make a custard of 3 eggs, 2>4 cups sugar, 1 pint sweet 
milk. When this is cold add 1 quart whipped cream, freeze 
slightly, add Yz pound English walnuts chopped fine, Y^ 
pound crystalized cherries, cut up ; Ya pound citron or pine- 
apple shaved. When all is nearly frozen add nearly a 
tumbler full of sherry. Mrs. W. R. Stovall. 

Orange Sponge Pudding. 

Cut 5 or 6 oranges in small pieces and place in a pudding 
dish ; pour over them 1 cup sugar. Then make a boiled 
custard of 1 pint milk, yolks of 3 eggs, ^ cup sugar, and 
1 large tablespoon corn starch. Pour this on the oranges ; 
make a meringue of the whites of 3 eggs and 3 tablespoons 
pulverized sugar ; pour on oranges, put in stove and brown 
lightly. Mrs. George Westmoreland. 

Plum Pudding. 

Five eggs, 1 cup sugar, Y^ pound suet, 4 cups grated 
bread crumbs, 2 cups CAPITOLA flour, 2 even teaspoons 
soda, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and 
allspice, 2 pounds raisins dredged with a little flour. 
Put in a well-greased mould with a securely fastened top, 
Boil for 3 hours. The water should be boiling the whole 
time. Mrs. J. B. Baird. 

Prune PLtdc^'.ng. 

Take al)out 30 prunes that have been thoroughly cooked, 
seed and chop fine. Beat whites of 6 eggs to stiff broth, 
sweeten to taste, then beat in prunes by dropping in few 



63 

Use ore teaspoon BLUE RIBBON FLAVORING EX- 
TRACT to one quart of material. 

at a time ; put in pan, set in another pan with hot water in 
it and put in stove for about 20 minutes, or until pudUing 
leaves the pan. Then take up as you would a cake, only 
use a plate the second time so the top of the pudding will 
be up. Serve with boiled custard. Can -use pecans or 
almonds with prunes, pound the nuts. 

Mrs. George Coates. 

Snow Pudding. 

First Part — Whites 4 eggs, beaten stiff, 4 level table- 
spoons sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon, 1 wineglass 
sherry or other cooking wine or whiskey. Put these in- 
gredients into the well-beaten whites and stir lightly with 
a fork. 

Second Part — One pint rich cream beaten until like bat- 
ter, add 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon, 
1 wineglass sherry or other wine. Pour both parts in one 
bowl, mix with fork lightly. This quantity fills a soup 
tureen. Serve in small glasses as it is very rich. 

Mrs. P. F. Manson. 

Strawberry Pudding. 

Line a pudding mold with sponge cake, macaroons and 
strawberries. Pour over a pint of rich milk or cream and 
steam 2 hours. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored with sherry. Miss Emmie Ruse. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Have bowl cold and break into it 1 white of an egg, put 
in cup of powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon granulated sugar. 
Take 1 large mellow apple, grate into eggs and sugar and 
beat for >^ hour with kitchen spoon. Then put in cup of 
pecans, some crystallized cherries and malaga grapes. Take 
3^ pint thin cream, flavor with 1 tablespoon sherry and pour 
over charlotte. Mrs. R. N. R. Bardwell. 

Apple Float. 

One pint stewed (fresh) apples, whites 2 eggs. Whip 
eggs to stiff froth, add to this a tablespoon apples beaten 
in until all of the apples are used. Flavor with vandla ; 
serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Carrie Colhns. 

Apple Fritters. 

Four large, sour, sound-cooking apples, peeled, cored and 
cut each in 4 slices. One glass sherry, 2 tablespoons sugar. 



64_ 

For quality, purity and strength use BLUE RIBBON 
FLAVORING EXTRACT. 

Place slices of apples in bowl, with sugar and wine, cover 
with plate ; set aside to steep 2 hours, then dip each slice 
into batter and fry in boiling COTTOLENE to a light 
brown ; serve with sugar. 

Mrs. John Schaffner Spalding. 

Stuffed Apples. 

Peel and core the apples and put them in a vessel with a 
little water and steam until done. Mince equal parts of 
raisins and English walnuts (or any nuts desired\ soak- 
awhile in sherry then stuff the apples with this and serve 
with whipped cream. Mrs. Vassar Woolley. 

Apple Tapioca. 

One cup granulated tapioca, 1 cup sugar, 4 cups cold 
water, 6 large apples, 1 pint cream. Soak tapioca with 
half of water for one hour, then put in porcelain kettle, 
add rest of water and cook until clear as jelly. Add sugir, 
boil a few minutes and take from stove. Into this mix 
the finely chopped apples, pour in pan, bake until apples 
are tender. Serve wth cream, plain or whipped. 

Mrs. A. T." Spalding. 

Eevnana Fritters. 
Beat 3 or 4 bananas to a cream. Add 1 egg, 1 cup CAPI- 
TOLA flour, in which 1 level teaspoon baking powder has 
been sifted ; 1 salt spoon of salt and about ^ cup sweet 
milk, or enough to make a drop batter; 1 teaspoon lemon 
juice may also be added. Beat until thoroughly mixed. Dip 
a clean spoon in the fat and use it to shape the fritters ; do 
not make them too large. Fry in boiling COTTOLENE, 
drain on soft paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar or serve 
with lemon juice. Serve while hot. 

Mrs. J. Cheston King. 

Cafe Parfait. 

One pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 heaping teaspoon sifted CAPI- 
TOLA flour, not cmite a pint ofsugar ; make custard and 
let it cool, then add 1 quart cream ; pour over this whipped 
cream and 6 tablespoons strong black coffee. 

^Irs. Charles du Bignon. 

Cream Balls. 

Two cups CAPITOLA flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup swet milk (half milk and half 



65 

BLUE RIBBON FLAVORING EXTRACT in a dozen dif- 
ferent flavorings. 

water can be used), butter size of egg. Bake in small round 
gems ii: rather quick oven. With a hot knife split each 
ball and place inside a teaspoon of following: One teacup 
milk, 1 egg, sugar to taste, 1 teaspoon corn starch moistened 
with cold milk. Cook till thick, flavor with vanilla or any 
preferred flavoring. Dust the balls with powdered sugar. 
Mrs. Mary Turner Jones, .".ugusta, Ga. 

Cream Puffs. 

Melt half a cup of butter in 1 cup hot water, and while 
boiling beat in 1 cup CAPITOLA flour, then take off the 
stove and cool. Stir in 3 eggs, one at a time, without beat- 
ing ; drop quickly in baking pan and bake about 20 minutes 
in moderate oven. For the cream mix y^ pint milk, 1 egg, 3 
tablespoons sugar and 2 large tablespoons CAPITOLA 
flour; boil same as any other cream and flavor to taste. 
When puffs are baked open the side and fill with the cream. 

Mrs. J. W. Wills. 

Hermits. 

Two eggs, 1 cup butter (melted after measuring), 1^ 
cups sugar, }^ teaspon soda dissolved in 2 teaspoons hot 
water, 1 teaspoon each, cinnamon, allspice, cloves and nut- 
meg, 3 cups sifted CAPITOLA flour, 1}4 cups seeded raisins. 
Mix thoroughly, drop from a teaspoon (hot heaped) in 
biscuit pan which has been dredged with flour. 

Mrs. E. H. Cone. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Wash 6 oranges, 4 lemons, cover with water and boil 
until they can be pricked with a straw. Take the fruit 
out of the water and when cool halve and quarter, peel 
the skin and take all seeds out from the pulp. Cut the 
rinds in thin strips and return them with the pulps to the 
water in which the fruit was boiled, adding equal parts of 
sugar. Cook until thick like marmalade. 

Mrs. Frank Myers, Sr. 

Pineapple Sponge. 

Dissolve 1 package of plain gelatine in as little water as 
possible ; make syrup of 1 cup water and 1 cup sugar while 
this is boiling, to the dissolved gelatine, and to the. whole 
add 1 can grated pineapple. Place on ice and when it be- 
gins to congeal stir in 1 pint whipped cream. Pour into 
a brick-shaped pan and when cold turn out and slice as 
you would ice cream. 

Mrs. Charles Waters Fitzhugh, Pine Bluff', Ark. 



66 

BLUE RIBBON EXTRACT. Rich in flavor. "Best and 
takes less." 



Snow Flake Souffle. 

One pint cream, 2 eggs, whites only; 1 can pineapple, 1 
cup grated cocoanut. Whip cream, sweeten to taste, add 
beaten whites. Cut pineapple into small cubes and line 
the bottom of a dish with them. Pour over them the 
beaten mixture and sprinkle on top the cocoanut. 

Mrs. Vassar Wooley. 

Souffle. 

Two scant tablespons butter, 2 heaping tablespoons 
CAPITOLA flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 
4 eggs. Beat flour and butter together, add gradually the 
milk which has been allowed to come to a boil. Cook this 
mixture 8 minutes, stirring constantly, then add well- 
beaten yellows and sugar ; put aside to cool. When ready 
to bake stir in well-beaten whites, pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake for 30 minutes. When done leave 
stove door open a few minutes before dish is taken out. 

Sauce — One-half cup water, 1 cup powdered sugar, ]/% 
cup cream, 4 tablespoons wine or vanilla. Beat butter to 
a cream, add sugar gradually, beating all the time. When 
light and creamy add slowly wine and then cream. Place 
bowl in a vessel of hot water and stir until smooth. 

Mrs. Porter King. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

To one rich pie crust add 1 tablespoon sugar and 1 ^^%. 
Bake like hoe cake, split and butter ; 1 ciuart sweetened 
berries crushed (a few having been reserved), and spread 
between and on top of crust when partly cooled. When 
ready to serve pour over this a pint of cream sweetened 
and whipped until stifif, then the whole berries on top. 

Mrs. Porter King. 

Old-Fashioned "Tipsy Squire" Minus the "Tipsy." 

Two or 2y2 medium slices of any good plain cake, 3 table- 
spoons nut meats (preferrably English walnuts or pecans), 
1 tablespoon seeded raisins, 1 glass boiled custard flavored 
to taste with vanilla (instead of brandy). Arrange cake, 
nuts and raisins in layers in individual dish, a short while 
before serving, over this pour the custard. Whipped cream 
added, or all whipped cream, with a red cherry makes a 
very rich desert if desired. 

Mrs. Roy N. Cole, Newman, Ga. 



GAKES 



"Too good for human nature's daily food." — Emerson. _ 

General Directions for Mixing Cake. 

First. Cake Without Butter — Beat the yolks of eggs un- 
til light and thick, add sugar gradually, beating all the time, 
then liquid flavoring and sifted flour, the latter mixed with 
baking powder. Fold in last the well-beaten whites. 

Second. Cake With Butter — Cream the butter until 
light, add the sugar gradually, beating until light and 
creamy, then the well-beaten yolks and flavoring. Beat in 
alternately the liquid and sifted flour, the latter mixed with 
the yeast powder. After this stir in lightly the beaten 
whites. 

Notes on Cake Making. 

Spices when called for must be ground finely and 
thoroughly mixed together. Fruits and nuts must be cut in 
small pieces and dredged with flour before adding to batter. 
Blanch almonds, remove seeds from raisons, dates, etc., 
before measuring. Line loaf cake pans with buttered 
paper, fruit cakes, use several thicknesses of paper. When 
cutting fresh cake use a hot knife, as this prevents crumb- • 
ling. 

Time Table for Baking Cakes. 

Sponge cake, ^ of an hour. Fruit cake, 3 and 4 hours, 
according to size. Pound cake, 1 hour. Small cakes, cookies, 
etc., 10 to 15 minutes. 

Notes on Baking Cakes. 

Cakes without butter should have a quicker oven than 
those of same size containing butter. To test the tem- 
perature of the stove, sprinkle a little flour inside and shut 
the door for about 3 minutes. If at the end of that time 
it is a light rich brown, the cake may be put in, but if 
burned the heat must be reduced. Insert a clean broom 
straw into middle of cake to test. If done, the straw will 
come out clean. 

N. B.— In the following recipes, unless otherwise speci- 
fied, sweet milk and granulated sugar are used. 

General Directions for Boiling Icing. 

One cup granulated sugar, with water to dissolve, let 
boil until it strings when poured from spoon, pour it over 
well-beaten white of 1 egg, beat until cold. Always cover 



68 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER, the standard of purity. 

the saucepan in which sugar is boiling. This will keep it 
from forming crystals on sides of pan. Add a few drops 
of lemon juice to whiten. A pinch of cream of tartar is an 
improvement also. 

Amalgamated Fruit Cake. 

Whites 6 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, ^ cup milk, 
3 cups CAPITOLA fiour sifted twice, 1 good teaspoon bak- 
ing powder. Mix according to general directions for cake 
.with butter. Bake in 3 layers. 

Filling — Yolks 6 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
each, seeded raisins, English walnuts, almonds, and grated 
cocoanut. Beat eggs and sugar together, add butter, cook 
until it thickens. Prepare fruit and nuts as per directions, 
add to hot mixture. Keep filling in vessel of warm water, 
while putting between layers. Spread a thin coating of 
jelly on each layer before putting in filling. Finish while 
cake is warm. 

Mrs. Charlotte Binder, Stone Mountain, Ga. 

Angel Food Cake. 

Eleven eggs, whites only, 1^^ cups sugar, 1 cup CAPI- 
TOLA flour, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla ; 
add little salt to whites, beat to stifif froth. To this add 
sugar which has been sifted 9 times, then the flour, sifted 
8 times, the last time with the cream of tartar added. Next 
add vanilla, stirring while putting batter in pan. Bake 
from 40 to 50 minutes in a pan that has never been greased. 

Mrs. G. E. Paine. 

Apple Sauce Cake With Apple Icing. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1^ cups CAPI- 
TOLA flour, Yz teaspoon soda, a little salt, a little nutmeg, 
Yz teaspoon cloves, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup unsweetened apple 
sauce. Cream butter and sugar, add spices, salt and chopped 
raisins. Mix apple sauce with soda which has been dis- 
solved with a little warm water, add this and the flour to 
the above mixture. Bake 40 or SO minutes. 

Apple Icing — One cup pulverized sugar, white 1 ^^%, 1 
large apple, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat ^g^ with i^ the sugar 
until stiff. To this add the pared and grated apple, beat 
well, add rest of sugar and vanilla. Beat again and spread 
on cake. Mrs. Bessks. 



69 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER, the standard of purity. 

Bible Cake. 

Half pound of Judges 5:25, the same of Jeremiah 6:20, 
one tablespoon of 1 Samuel 14 :25, three tablespoons Jere- 
miah 17:11, Yz pound each of 1 Samuel 30:12 and Nahum 
3:12 (chopped), 2 ounces of Numbers 17:8 (blanched and 
chipped), 1 pound of 1 Kings 4:22; season to taste with 2 
Chronicles 9:9. One tablespoon of Romans 4:5, 3 table- 
spoons of Judges 4:19. Beat the 1st, 2nd and 3rd ingredi- 
ents named to a cream, add the 4th one at a time, still beat- 
ing, then 5th, 6th and 7th, still beating. Next add 8th, 9th, 
10th and 11th, having previously mixed them together; last 
of all 12th. Bake in a slow oven IJ^ hours. 

Interpreted. 

One-half pound butter, ^ pound sugar, 1 tablespoon 
honey, 3 eggs, ^ pound raisins, ^ pound figs, 2 ounces 
almonds, blanched, 1 pound flour, spices to taste; 1 teaspoon 
yeast powder, 3 tablespoons milk. Beat first, second and 
third ingredients to a cream, add the fourth one at a time, 
still beating them; fifth, sixth and seventh, still beating; 
eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh, having previously mixed 
them together; last add twelfth. Bake in slow over 1^ 
hours. Mrs. D. B. Hamilton, Rome, Ga. 

Blackberry Cake. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, l^X cups sugar, 2-3 cups butter- 
milk, 2 heaping cups CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon soda 
butter. In double boiler cook to thick cream, 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice, last add beaten whites of 4 eggs. 
Bake in layers. 

Filling — Beat 2 eggs, add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sv/eet milk 
in which stir teaspoon corn starch or flour, add tablespoon 
directions for fruit cake. Bake slowly 3 or 4 hours. 

Mrs. D. H. Bickers. 

Chess Cakes. 

One pound butter, yolks of 12 eggs, 1 pound brown 
sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and sherry to taste. Cream but- 
ter and sugar, add well-beaten yolks, then powdered cinna- 
mon, nutmeg and sherry. Bake in pie shells. 

Mrs. Banks Williamson. 

This recipe has been used for nearly 100 years in the Holt 
family of Burlington, N. C. 



70 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER denotes purity. 

Black Chocolate Cake. 

One cup grated chocolate, ^ cup brown sugar, Yz cup 
milk; cook thick, then take from stove, add yolk 1 ^%^ and 
1 teaspoon vanilla. While this is cooling cream 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup butter, 3 eggs beaten separately ,add 1 teaspoon soda 
dissolved in Yz cup strong cold coffee and 2 cups CAPI- 
TOLA flour. Then beat in chocolate mixture. Bake in lay- 
ers, put together with white icing. 

Mrs. Thomas M. Callaway. 

Devil Cake. 

Cake Batter — Onehalf cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 
^gg'Sj Yi. cup milk, 2^ cups flour, 1 level teaspoon soda. 

Custard — One cup brown sugar, Yz cup grated chocolate, 
Yz cup milk, yolk 1 ^^^, 1 teaspoon vanilla ; boil this custard 
until thick and set aside to cool. Mix cake as per directions 
for cake with butter, leaving out the soda. Add the cold 
custard to cake batter, then the soda dissolved in a little 
water, bake in loaf pan, cover with marshmallow icing. 

Icing — Two cups sugar boiled with ^ cup water until it 
spins, drop in 34 marshmallows, boil up again. Pour this 
over beaten whites 2 eggs, beat until thick. 

Mrs. W. C. Carroll. 

Drop Cake. 

One cup butter, XYz cups sugar, 4 eggs, XYz tablespoons 
hot water, 3^4 cups CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
cup chopped nuts (any kind), Y'^ cup each raisins and cur- 
rants, Y tumbler sherry wine. Mix as per directions for 
cake with butter, dissolving soda in hot water. Use half 
the flour, then stir in fruit and nuts and remaining flour. 
Drop on buttered paper and bake. 

Mrs. Edmund Martin. 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound butter beat to a cream, add gradually 1 pound 
sugar, 1 pound CAPITOLA flour, 12 eggs (leave out 2 
whites for icing), 2 pounds each currants and raisins, % 
pound citron, flour the fruit, Y^ ounce each mace, nutmeg, 
cinnamon and cloves, 1 ounce allspice. Lastly add 1 tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in 1 tablespoon of molasses. 

Mrs. T. B. Rice, Greensboro, Ga. 

Fruit Cake. 

One and one-half pounds butter, 1>^ pounds sugar, 18 



71 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER denotes purity. 

^§■§"5) 1^ pounds CAPITOL A flour, 2 pounds each raisins, 
mixed nuts and currants, 1 pound each dates, prunes and 
fig's? Yi pound citron, 2 tablespoons each mace, cinnamon 
and cloves, 1 tumbler brandy, 1 teaspoon soda. Mix as per 
dirfections for fruit cake. Bake slowly 3 or 4 hours. 

Mrs. Robert L. Turman. 

Gold Cakes for Left Over Yelks. 

One-quarter cup butter ^ cup sugar, yelks 5 eggs, ^ cup 
milk, 1 cup CAPITOLA flour, 1^^ teaspoons baking pow- 
der, ^ cup chopped nut meats. Cream butter, add sugar 
gradually, add yelks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon 
colored, then nuts. Mix and sift iiour and baking powder, 
and add alternately with milk to the first mixture. Bake in 
individual tins. This quantity maeks 2 dozen small cakes. 

Mrs. N. L. Singleton. 

Jam Cake. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons 
sour milk, X^A cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon each 
nutmeg and cinnamon. Mix as per directions for cake wath 
butter, adding 1 cup strawberry jam the last thing. Bake 
in 2 layers, put together with boiled icing. A cup of nuts 
is an improvement. Mrs. A. B. Buehl. 

Japanese Cake. 

Make an ordinary cup cake batter and divide it in half. 
Bake the first half in two layers. In the other half mix 
the following ingredients : 1 cup seeded raisins chopped 
fine, 1 teaspoon each cinnamon, allspice and cloves and a 
little brandy. Make two layers of this. Filling: Cook to- 
gether 1 large grated cocoanut, juice and rind 2 lemons, 2 
cups sugar and 1 cup boiling water. When this begins to 
boil, add 2 tablespoons corn starch, which has been wet 
with a little cold water, stir and cook until very thick. 
Spread this between layers, alternating the plain and fruit 
layers. Mrs. J. C. McKenzie, 

East Point, Ga. 

Lady Baltimore Cake. 

One pound butter, 1 pound sugar, i/< pint milk, 8 eggs, 1 
pound flour. Mix as per directions for cake with butter, 
bake in layers and put together with following filling: 
Filling— Three cups sugar, 4 eggs, 3^ teaspoon tartaric acid, 
1 teaspoon vanilla, a few drops almon dextract, 1 pound 



. • 72 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER denotes purity. 

raisins, 1 pound English walnuts. Add enough water to 
sugar to dissolve it, boil until it ropes. Mix yolks of eggs 
with tartaric acid, pour hot syrup over this, beating con- 
stantly. Add chopped raisins and nuts and the two extracts. 
Add last the well beaten whites, mix thoroughly and spread 
between layers. Mrs. George Fuller, 

Little Girl's Doll Cake. 

Two tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 egg, 1 
tablespoon milk, 1 cup CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon yeast 
powder. Mix according to general directions for cake with 
butter. Annie Mary Fuller. 

Pecan Cake No. 1. 

One-half pound butter, 1 pound sugar, }4 pint whiskey, 6 
eggs, 1 pound CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 tea- 
spoons cream of tartar, 1^ pounds raisins, 1 quart pecan 
nuts, 1 grated nutmeg. To Mix — Follow general directions 
for mixing cake with butter, adding grated nutmeg after 
flour. Cut raisins and nuts, dredge with flour, add last, 
pour mixture in loaf pan and bake like fruit cake. 

Mrs. W. R. Stovall. 

Pecan Cake No. 2 . 

One-half pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 6 eggs, 1 glass 
brandy, 1 pound CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 tea- 
spoons cream of tartar, 2 pounds raisins, 1 heaping quart 
pecan nuts, 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 grated nutmeg. Mix 
as per directions for cake with butter, and bake slowly like 
fruit cake. Mrs. Jason Cannon. 

Mountain Pound Cake. 

One-half pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 5 eggs, 1 cup milk, 
1 pound flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanil- 
la. Mix as per directions for cake with butter. If desired 
add to the butter either ^ pound of citron, raisins or 
huckleberries. Mrs. W. R. Boyd. 

Pound Cake No. 1. 

Descended through four generations of housekeepers, be- 
ginning "befo' de war" in Charleston, S. C. 

One pound CAPITOLA flour, 1 pound sugar, Vs pound 
butter, 10 eggs, 3^ teaspoon baking powder, ;^ cup sherry 
wine, y2 teaspoon baking powder, ^ cup sherry wine, ^2 
teaspoon each vanilla and lemon extract. Cream butter un- 



73 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER churned fresh every day. 

til light, add sugar gradually, beating until light, add to 
this yolks of eggs one at a time, beating constantly; add 
wine, ^ teaspoon each vanilla and lemon extract. Cream 
butter until light, add sugar gradually, beating until light, 
add to this yolks of eggs one at a time, beating constantly ; 
add wine, flavoring and flour and baking powder, sifted to- 
gether three times ; add stiff beaten whites of eggs, beat all 
ten minutes. Bake two hours in mderate oven. Ice with 
and whites 2 eggs. 

Mrs. Mike Powell, Newnan, Ga. 

Pound Cake No. 2. 

1 pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 10 eggs, ^ cup water, 1 
pound CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, J4 tea- 
spoon vanilla, juice ^ lemon. Mix as per directions for 
cake with butter. Bake in loaf pan, slowly. 

Mrs. W. P. Anderson, Westminster, S. C. 

Ribbon Cake. 

White Part — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 4 
cups CAPITOLA flour, 1 scant teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar, 8 eggs, whites only. Yellow Part : >^ cup 
butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 8 eggs, yolks only, 3 cups 
flour, 2 scant teaspoons soda, 4 teaspoons cream of tartar, 
Yz pound citron, \]/2 pounds raisins. Mix according to di- 
rections for cake with butter, bake in layers, put together 
with boiled icing, alternating the white and yellow layers. 
For icing : Three cups sugar, whites 3 eggs, 1 cup boiling 
water, cooked and mixed according to directions. 

Mrs. S. T. Marett. 

« 

Ribbon Cake No. 2. 

White Part : Whites 8 eggs, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
3 cups CAPITOLA flour (sifted tv/ice), 1 cup sweet milk, 1 
teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Dark Part: Yolks 8 eggs, 3 cups CAPITOLA 
flour, 1 cup sweet rhilk, 2 teaspoons 6oda, 4 teaspoons cream 
tartar, ^ cup butter, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1 nutmeg, grated, 1 pound of raisins (cut raisins in 
two, 1 pound citron (chopped fine) ; bake in layers and use 
following icing : Icing : Whites of 6 eggs, 2 pounds sug- 



74 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER churned fresh every day. 



ar, 1 grated cocoaniit, alternate the layers in making the 
cake. Makes two large cakes. 

I\Irs. Will L. Hancock. 

Sally White Cake. 

One pound CAPITOLA flour, iy2 pounds sugar, ^ pound 
butter, 12 eggs, 2 small cocoanuts or 1 large one, 2 pounds 
citron cut very thin and chopped fine, 2 pounds almonds, 
blanched and run through meat chopper, 1 wine glass wine, 
1 wine glass brandy, 2 teaspoons grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoon 
ground mace, 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder. 

Mrs. C. B. Irwin, Graham, N. C. 

Silver Cake. 

One cup butter, 3 cups confectioner's sugar, 8 eggs, 
whites only, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons yeast 
powder. Flavor with vanilla. Mix as per directions for 
cake with butter. Bake in loaf pan in moderate oven. 

Mrs. W. A. Hemphill. 

Sponge Cake. 

Six eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup CAPITOLA flour, juice 1 
lemon. Beat yolks and sugar as per directions for cake 
without butter, add lemon juice and flour, beating all the 
time. Add pinch of salt to whites, beat to stifif froth and 
fold in batter. Bake in ungreased aluminum pan 45 min- 
utes. Put cake in oven hot enough to brown paper in five 
minutes. Turn out back light after first 15 minutes of cook- 
ing. In 30 minutes take out, turn pan on face and let stand 
until cold. Mrs. B. M. Boykin. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake. 

Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, }^ cup Isoiling water, 2 cups 
CAPITOLA flour, 2 teaspoons yeast powder, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Mix and bake according to general directions for 
cake without butter. Mrs. Arthur Hobbs. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs, 1 pint Cx-\PITOLA flour, 1 pint sugar, 1 
level teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- 
der, 1-3 teaspoon each vanilla and lemon. Beat yolks well. 
Beat whites stifif. Add sugar sliowly to whites ; next add 



75 

BLUE VALLEY BUTTER churned fresh every day. 

the well beaten yellows. Sift flour, salt and baking powder 
three times and fold into the other ingredients, add flavor- 
ing. Bake in a slow oven. When it leaves pan and won't 
stick to straw, it is done. 

Mrs. W. C. McBride, Newnan, Ga. 

White Cake. 

Three cups CAPITOLA flour, 2 cups sugar, 2-3 cups but- 
ter, 2-3 cup cold water, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Add 
last unbeaten whites of 5 eggs. 

Mrs. W. H. Prior, Greensboro, Ga. 

My Grandmother's White Cake. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 12 eggs, whites only; 3^ 
cups CAPITOLA flour, ^ teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream 
of tartar. To mix : Cream butter and flour, beat whites 
and sugar together, mix all, adding soda and cream of tar- 
tar last. Bake slowly. Annie Kate Barnes. 

White Layer Cake. 

One cup butter, 2>^ cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 8 eggs, whites 
only, 3 cups flour, ^ cup corn starch, 2 teaspoons yeast 
powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix according to directions 
for cake with butter, bake in layers, put together with 
caramel icing. Mrs. Charles F. Barnwell. 

Boston Cookies. 

One cup butter, 1>^ cups sugar, 3 eggs, V/2 tablespoons 
hot water, 3>4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, Yi teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup chopped nut meats, 1 cup chop- 
ped and seeded raisins. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, 
then eggs well beaten, add soda dissolved in hot water and 
one-half the flour mixed and sifted with salt and remaining 
flour. Drop by spoonfuls on greased pan, bake in moderate 
oven. Mrs. Thomas M. Callaway. 

Lazy Doughnuts. 

One-half cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 6 level tea- 
spoons melted COTTOLENE, >4 teaspoon soda. Stir as 
stift" as possible with CAPITOLA flour. Drop from a tea- 
spoon ill boiling COTTOLENE and fry brown. Dip spoon 
in COTTOLENE each time before filling. 

Mrs. H. P. Brotherton, East Point, Ga. 



76 

If it's the BLUE PACKAGE BUTTER, it's the best. 

Soft Ginger Bread — Aunt Marion's Recipe. 

Six cups CAPITOLA flour, 6 eggs, V/i cups of molasses, 
1>2 cups sugar, 1 cupful butter and lard mixed, 1 cup but- 
termilk. Beat eggs separately, beat yolks with sugar, 
cream butter, make batter stifif enough to drop from spoon 
on hot 'pan. Raisins, citron, currants may be added. 

Mrs. M. A. Lipscomb, Athens, Ga. 

Old Fashioned Ginger Bread. 

Two cups butter, 3 cups brown sugar, 6 eggs, 2 cups mo- 
lasses, 1 cup milk, 5 cups CAPITOLA flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 
ginger to taste, grated rind 2 lemons. Put butter, sugar, 
molasses and milk on stove to get warm. Add beaten eggs, 
soda dissolved in little warm water, ginger, lemon rind and 
flour. Bake in any desired shape. Mrs. L. M. Hoyt. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 

One cup plantation molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup shorten- 
ing, 1 heaping teaspoon soda, 2 heaping teaspoons ginger. 
Mix all together, put over fire, let come to a boil. Take 
from fire, stir in 3 tablespoons buttermilk and 1 egg. Add 
CAPITOLA flour to make a soft dough. 

Mrs. Brader Barker. 

Tea Cakes. 

Six tablespoons melted butter, 8 tablespoons sugar, 2 
eggs, 4 tablespoons milk, 2 tablespoons yeast powder, flavor 
to taste, CAPITOLA flour to make soft dough. Mix ac- 
cording to general directions, roll thin, bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. L. H. Collinsworth. 

Walnut Wafers. 

One-half pound brown sugar, y2 pound walnut meats 
(slightly broken, but not chopped), 3 even teaspoons CAP- 
ITOLA flour, 54 teaspoon baking powder, 1-3 teaspoon salt, 
2 eggs. Beat eggs and sugar, salt, flour, last nut meats. 
Drop small spoonful on buttered pans and bake brown. Re- 
move from pans as soon as baked. 

Mrs. Arthur H. Gordon. 

Caramel Filling. 

One cup brown sugar, scant one-fourth cake of chocolate, 



IT^ 

If it's the BLUE PACKAGE BUTTER, it's the best. 

butter size of an ^^g, 2 teaspoons vanilla, cok until stiff 
enough to spread. Mrs. Marion Benson. 

Chocolate Filling. 

Put ]/> cup of butter, 1 cup milk, 2 cups sugar on stove, 
beat together 1 whole tgg and put in enough chocolate to 
make a nice brown and mix with ether ingredients on 
stove and cook until thick enough, scirring all the time. 
Before putting the chocolate in the egg dissolve in a little 
of the milk. Mrs. E. C. Lakin. 

Fillmg. 

One pound of raisins, lA pound of currants, ^ pound of 
citron, ^ of a teaspoonful each of the spices you like, one 
tablespoon of butter, yolks of 6 eggs, beat the eggs, add 
spices, butter and fruit (cut fine), then half a glass of whis- 
key, cook this in a double boiler eight or ten minutes or till 
eggs are cooked. Put between the layers of cake. 

Mrs. John McCullough. 

Lemon Filling. 

Yolks 5 eggs, juice and rind 2 lemons, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 cup sugar, cook in double boiler to a jelly. Beat. 

Mrs. W. A. Baker, Griffin, Ga. 

Marshmallow Filling. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, ^ cup of boiling water, 
boil together until clear and thick, pour over whites of 
three well-beaten eggs, then stir in ^ pound of marshmal- 
lows until dissolved. Put between layers when coolr. 

Mrs. J. F. Kellam. 

Pineapple Filling. 

Strain juice from grated pineapple. Cook with one cup 
sugar until it strings, stir in pineapple, pour this over well- 
beaten whites of 2 eggs, beat until thick. 

Mrs. Harrv Wilson. 



USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (iOc). 



FROZEN CREAMS AND ICES 

"Then farewell heat and welcome frost." — Merchant of Venice. 
"But then my fare was all so light and delicate; 
It would not bear a bite — no not a munch — 
But melted away like ice." — Hood. 

Before beginning see that the freezer is clean and sweet. 
Scald the can, lid and dasher thoroughly. Adjust the can 
and dasher properly before putting in any ice and salt. Chip 
the ice in fine pieces, the finer the better, mix coarse rock 
salt thoroughly with the chipped ice in the proportion of 
three parts of ice to one of salt, then fill the tub of freezer 
to top and keep it full during the freezing process. Turn 
the crank slowly until the mixture is thoroughly chilled, 
then turn steadily and quickly till it is hard to turn. See 
that the hole near the top of the tub is always open. The 
can of- freezer should never be filled more than two-thirds 
full of the mixture to be frozen. After the cream is frozen 
and dasher removed push down the salt and ice, put new 
ice and salt in, cover with an old piece of carpet and set 
away one or two hours to ripen. 

Bavarian Cream. 

One-half box gelatine, one can sliced pineapples, one cup 
sugar, one pint cream, one cup cold water, squeeze in some 
lemon, dissolve gelatine in the water, cook pineapple and 
sugar a little (only enough to dissolve sugar well). When 
cool beat in gelatine, whip cream, add all, heat until thick. 
Put on ice or in cold place. Peaches, oranges, raspberries 
or any kind of fruit may be used. Serve with whipped 
cream flavored. Miss Annie B. Northen. 

Caramel Ice Cream No. 1. 

Make a custard, using ^ gallon of milk, 4 eggs, 2 table- 
spoons CAPITOLA flour, and 1 cup sugar, cook until thick- 
ened and set aside to cool. Put 1 cup white sugar in a hot 
skillet and let scorch until a dark brown color, add 1 cup 
cold water and stir until a thick syrup. Add this when 
cold to the custard, then add one pint of pure cream, flavor 
with vanilla and freeze. Mrs. George W. Forrester. 



79 

If it's the BLUE PACKAGE BUTTER, it's the best. 

Caramel Cream No. 2. 

For half gallon of caramel cream, brown ly, cups white 
sugar, put 3 pints of milk on to boil in a double boiler, when 
milk comes to a boil take 2 eggs and beat yolks with half- 
cup of CAPITOLA flour, pour slowly this scalding milk on 
the eggs, stir all the time, then put back on the stove, put 
in the sugar that has been jjrowned, cook till it thickens, 
pour into vessel to cool, scald one pint of cream and stir in- 
to the custard after it has been poured into vessel, beat the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and stir in custard. If 
not sweet enough add a little sugar. Flavor to taste. When 
the browned sugar is put in the milk it will get hard, but 
after standing a while it wall dissolve. Freeze. 

Mrs. Luther B. Rosser. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One quart rich cream sweetened to taste, flavor with 
sherry wine, put into a bowl and churn with a syllabub 
churn, have ready a flat dish with a sieve over it and as the 
froth rises skim ofT and put in sieve to drain. Take half 
pint of milk, 1 ounce of gelatine, put it on the fire until 
gelatine is dissolved. The yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
sugar stirred into the milk and cook until the consistency of 
custard, pour into a bowl and as it begins to congeal stir 
into the whipped cream. Have ready a glass bowd lined 
with sponge cake or lady fingers, pour in the cream and 
place on ice. Mrs. R. L. Burwell. 

Charlotte Russe No. 2. 

One pint cream, >< pint milk, 1-3 box gelatine, sugar and 
flavoring to taste. Dissolve gelatine in milk, add wdiipped 
cream, sugar and flavoring. Line a long cake or bread thi 
with sponge cake, cut thin, and pour the above mixture in 
center. When cold turn out on dish and serve. 

Mrs. Fairman. 

Charlotte Russe No. 3. 

One quart cream, >4 pint milk, fi box Knox's gelatine, 
3^ pound sugar, 3 eggs, vanilla; dissolve gelatine in milk 
over fire. Beat yolks very light and add sugar. To this 
add alternately whites of eggs and cream, each being whip- 
ped very stifl'. Last of all add gelatine and vanilla. 

Miss Ada C. Bell. 



80 

BLUE RIBBON EXTRACT— the highest quality. "Best 
and takes less/' 



Cafe Au Parfait. 

Six ounces whole coffee — freshly roasted if possible — 
1^ pints rich syrup, 4 egg yolks, 1 pint cream. If the 
coffee is not freshly roasted heat it and then pour the boil- 
ing syrup over. Let stand in a warm place until the flavor 
is extracted, then strain and to this hot mixture add the 
beaten yolks and cook in the double boiler until it thickens. 
Strain immediately into a bowl set in ice, beat until cold, 
then add the cream previously beaten to a stiff froth, beat 
the two lightly together, and put in a mould or freezer 
packed in ice and salt for a couple of hours. Do not turn 
as for ice cream. Let freeze two hours. Serve in parfait 
glasses with a spoonful of whipped cream on top. 

Mrs. A. B. Steele. 

CofiFee Frappe. 

Mix together 1 pint cream, 1 cup moderately strong cof- 
fee, sweeten, whip with syllabub churn, skim froth, putting 
it in mold, pack mould in ice and salt for about two hours. 
Serve in glasses. 

Delmonico Cream. 

One quart cream, 2 quarts milk, 3 cups sugar, 1 table- 
spoon each rennet and vanilla ; put milk on stove, let it 
get just w^arm, take off, add rennet and let cook, flavor; 
pour all together and freeze. 

Mrs. Edgar Dunlap. 

Frozen Eggnog. 

Twelve eggs, 16 tablespoons sugar, 16 tablespoons brandy 
or rum, 1 quart whipped cream ; freeze. 

Mrs. Irwin Cobb. 

Fruit Ices. 

The foundation of all fruit ices should be one quart of 
water to one pound of sugar boiled five minutes. This 
gives a finer grain than the uncooked sugar. This is a 
broad rule for all ices. The juice of one lemon improves 
nearly all fruit except raspberries. It is best to press fruit 
through a sieve. After adding the fruit to the boiled syrup 
strain through a cloth and then freeze. When the mixture 



81 

BLUE RIBBON VANILLA flavors perfectly any dessert. 

is frozen and dasher removed a meringue made of the beat- 
en white of one eg-gf and tablespoon of powdered sugar 
may be added. This makes the mixture light and creamy. 
By following this we can make ices of nearly all the fruits. 
There are many combinations of fruit juices, as pineapple 
and orange, orange and strawberry, grape and cherry. 

Mrs. H. M. Nicholes. 

Macaroon Ice. 

Toast or dry 2 dozen macaroons in stove, roll fine, beat 
half of them into 1 quart of whipped, flavored and sweet- 
ened cream. Put in mold, or individual molds, set in ice 
and salt for several hours. Sprinkle with other half of 
macaroon crumbs before serving. Mrs. H. M. Tanner. 

Manhattan Punch. 

Juice 2 dozen lemons, 1 dozen oranges, 1 can grated 
pineapple, 1 quart Jamaica rum, 1 quart strong green tea, 
mix well, sweeten, use fruit coloring and freeze. Serve with 
whipped cream and crystallize. This quantity fills a two 
and a half gallon freezer. Mrs. R. O .Crouch, Grififin, Ga. 

Mousse. 

Take 3 pints of very rich cream, sweeten and flavor to 
taste, then whip very stiff, take ^ pound cr^'stallized cher- 
ries chipped up, 1 can pineapple cut into small pieces, shave 
34 pound citron, pack all into your freezer ; put in a layer 
of whipped cream, then a layer of mixed fruit, until all is 
used. Pack closely and let stand six hours. This quantity 
will serve 18 people. Mrs. George W. Forrester. 

Maple Mousse No. 1. 

Seven egg yolks, 1 cup maple syrup on stove, come to a 
boil, pour gradually into beaten eggs, stirring constantly, 
return to double boiler and stir until thick enough to cling 
to spoon, set in pan of ice water until perfectly cold, beat 
1 pint of sweet cream to froth, beat this into other mix- 
ture, put in can sealed over top with greasy cloth, pack in 
ice and salt. Do not freeze, but mould quicklv. 

Mrs. J. S. Scott. 

Maple Mousse No. 2. 

Be^t yolks 8 eggs until thick and light, pour over them 



82 

BLUE RIBBON VANILLA made from fmest vanilla beans. 

1 cup boiling hot maple syrup, return to fire in double 
boiler, stir and cook until thick enough to mash the spoon, 
add Yz teaspoon granulated gelatine soaked in one-eighth 
glass of water ; stand the mixture in ice water, beat until 
cold and light, mix gently with 1 pint stiff beaten cream. 
Turn into mold, following usual directions for freezing 
mousse. Mrs. H. M. Nicholes. 

Maple Parfait No. 1. 

Yelks 8 eggs, ^ cup maple syrup cooked togethed until 
the spoon coates ; take off and whip until cold, add 1 pint 
beaten cream. Pack in ice and let sit for 12 hours. 

Mrs. D. B. Hamilton, Rome, Ga. 

Maple Parfait No. 2. 

Into a double boiler put ^4 cup maple syrup, add the beat- 
en yolks 6 eggs and cook until thick. When cold stir in 
1 pint whipped cream, put in freezer and pack. Takes six 
hours to freeze. Mrs. Irvin E. Walker. 

MarshmaMow Charlotte. 

Cut Yz pound marshmallows and 3^ cup. English walnut 
meats in pieces. Cut 1-3 cup Maraschino cherries in pieces. 
Beat 1 cupful heavy cream until stiff and add 2 tablespoons 
powdered sugar, Y teaspoon vanilla and ^ tablespoon 
granulated gelatine dissolved in 3 tablespoons boiling wa- 
ter. When cream mixture begins to thicken, add marsh- 
mallows, nut meats and fruit. Turn into a mold first dip- 
ped in cold water and chill. Remove from mold and garnish 
with strips of iVngelica and Maraschino cherries. 

Mrs. L. D. Wat«on. 

Marshmallow Parfait. 

Cook Yz cup sugar and >^ cup water until mixture threads, 
pour gradually into stiffly beaten whites of .i cj^gs, beat 
thoroughly, then cool. Cut in halves 1 cup cherries 2nd 
roll in powdered sugar. Whip ? cupo heavy cream until 
stiff", reserve one cup cream and pour the rest iiJo the q^^ 
mixture; add cherries and flavor with Medeira or sherry 
wine. Pack in ice 4 hours. 

Orange Sauce: Beat until light yolks 3 eggs and 1-3 cup 
sugar, squeeze into this juice, 1 large lemon. Cook in dou- 
ble vessel until thick; when cool stir in the cup of reserved 



83 

Everything in HARDWARE. King Hardware Co., 
53 Peachtree Street. 

cream well beaten. Keep cold and pour over parfait when 
served. Mrs. Geo. P. Moore. 

Orange Mousse. 

One and one-third tablespoons gelatine, 1-3 cup cold wa- 
ter ; let stand. One-third cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 3 
tablespoons lemon juice, 1 cup orange juice. When thor- 
oughly chilled whip with egg beater. Then add whites of 
3 eggs well beaten and 2 cups whipped cream. When all is 
thoroughly beaten together place in mould on ice. Serve 
with boiled custard and garnish with sliced orange. 

Mrs. J. B. Rountree, Quitman. 

Pineapple Sponge. 

One package gelatine, 1 cup hot water, 1 cup sugar, 1 can 
grated pineapple, 1 pint cream. Dissolve gelatine in little 
cold water, make syrup of sugar and hot water, add while 
boiling to gelatine, then beat in pienapple. Place on ice and 
when it begins to congeal, stir in 1 pint whipped cream, 
pour in to brick shaped pan, when cold turn out and slice as 
you would ice cream. 

Mrs. Charles Waters Fitzhugh, Pine Blufif, Ark. 

Strawberry Sherbet. 

One quart berries, washed and strained, 1 pint water and 
1 pound sugar, put in freezer and when half-frozen add 1 
pint rich cream. Mrs. Charles Walcott, Grififin, Ga. 

Strawberry Mousse. 

Mash 1 quart ripe strawberries through a fine sieve, add 
1 cup sugar, and J4 box gelatine that has been dissolved in 
^ cup water; let this stand until it thickens, stir till it 
cools, whip 1 quart of thin cream, fold into the gelatine and 
berries. Fill a mold with mixture, fasten on cover, bind 
over top strip buttered muslin and bury for several- houds 
in ice and salt. Mrs. William Worth Martin. 

Violet Mousse. 

Soak one box of gelatine in }i cup of water one-half hour, 
then dissolve over hot water, whip one pint of cream, add 
gelatine, two-thirds cup sugar and one teaspoon violet ex- 
tract, one teaspoon sherry, stir from bottom to top till 
cream thickens, color a delicate lavender, turn into a mold 



USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 

previously wet with cold water, put a thin sheet of greased 
paper over cream with greased side up, put on cover of 
mold, pack in salt and ice, freeze two hours, turn out and 
garnish with candied violets. Mrs. C. E. Thrash. 

Ice Cream Without Freezer. 

Use a 1 pound coffee can, with a tight lid, sweeten and 
flavor cream, put into can with a piece of paper over it and 
put top on securely. Set into another larger can and pack 
with fine crushed ice and salt. Cover with newspaper, let 
stand one hour. Cut down, beat with spoon, cover and pack 
again, and in another hour it is well frozen. 

Mrs. Fanny Clarkson. 



BLUE VALLEY BUTTER— you can risk it on your biscuit. 



CANDY 



We should be kcerful how we encurridge luxuries. It is but 
a step forard from hoe caik to plum puddin', but it's a mile and a 
half by the nearest road when we have to go back again. — Josh 
Billings. 

Granulated sugar is preferable for making candy. It 
should not be stirred while boiling ; cream of tartar should 
not be added until syrup begins to boil ; butter should be 
put in when candy is almost done. Falvors are more deli- 
cate when not boiled in candy but added afterward. 

Chocolate Fudge. 

Three cups of sugar, 1^ cups of rich sweet milk, 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, cook this mixture slowly until it begins 
to boil, then put into it nearly a half of a cake of Walter 
Baker's chocolate, grated, cook, constantly trying a little 
of it in a cup of cold water. It is done when the candy 
forms a little soft ball in th^ bottom of the cup. When 
taken from the fire it must be beaten until perfectly cream- 
ed and begins to be heavy, then pour in a buttered plate, 
and when cool cut in little blocks. Miss Nell Fuller. 

Cooked Fondant. 

For cooked creams take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, 
water enough to wet thoroughly, which will be about two 
tablespoonfuls, put the sugar and water on in an unstained 
porcelain pan, and let it boil without stirring until it reach- 
es the thread degree, i. e., until a thread will form from the 
drops from a spoonful of the candy, pour out upon a marble 
slab and work with a wooden paddle. First stir around 
with the paddle, when begins to cream, work with the pad- 
dle and hands until the fondant is perfectly smooth and 
without grains. It can be made into rolls and sliced off or 
worked into any desired form. This may be kept for a 
week or more in cold weather if coevred with waxed paper. 

Mrs. H. G. Fennell. 

Cocoanut Cauidy. 

Three cups sugar, 1 cup water, pinch salt, 1 small cocoa- 
nut, freshly grated. In hot weather boil till crackles ; in 
cold weather don't cook quite so much. When sugar and 
water and salt boil well pour over cocoanut and beat. 

Mrs. Richard Battle. 



86 

USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 

Cream Fruit Roll. 

Take a small piece of fondant which has been colored and 
roll out very thin. The piece when rolled should be large as 
a biscuit. Have ready some chopped nuts, citron and raisins, 
work these together with a small piece of fondant, roll un- 
til about size of a fingej", place in the first piece of fondant, 
rolling the latter around the former. Have ready some 
chocolate, which has been dissolved by shaving; place in 
double boiler, or over the steam of a kettle, putting in a few 
shavings of parafTine. Stick a long hatpin into the roll and 
dip it into the chocolate. Place on waxed paper, cut into 
thin slices. The fondant must be kept very cold while be- 
ing used. If it becomes sticky place in the refrigerator, or 
out in the cold air. Mrs. Gordon W. Burnett. 

Cream Candy. 

Take two heaping cups of granulated sugar, one wine 
glassful of vinegar and one tumbler of water, boil one-half 
hour, flavor with vanilla and* pull like molasses candy. 

Mrs. J. D. Ponder. 

Fruit Candy. 

One pund of raisins, 2 pounds of almonds, % pound of 
citron, ^ pound of figs, blanch the almonds, cut the raisins 
and figs fine, shave citron, dissolve 4 cups of sugar with a 
little water, add 1 cup of sweet milk or cream and a tea- 
spoonful of buter, cook till thick, which will take about 
fifteen minutes, remove from fire, add fruit gradually, beat 
thoroughly, wet a napkin, pour candy into it and roll up. 
When cold slice thin like cake. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. J. D. Frazier. 

Stuffed Figs or Dates. 

Take a small piece of fondant about the size of a marble 
and color delicately pink or green with fruit coloring. Have 
ready some chopped raisins, citron and nuts, putting as 
much into the fondant as it will hold. Fill out the date or 
fig to its natural size, leaving only a peep of the coloring 
showing. Mrs. W. Gordon Burnett. 



BEVERAGES 

"I drink to the general joy o' the whole table." — Macbeth. 

Blackberry Drink. 

Boil y2 gallon of blackberries in a gallon of water until 
the berries are soft. Strain and sweeten while hot, add 
lemon to taste. Delicious in warm weather, iced and a ^'hin 
slice of lemon in each glass. Mrs. Fanny Clarkson. 

Claret Punch. 
Two quarts strong lemonade, 1 cniart claret, 1 pint bottle 
Apolinaris water. Mix all, pour over a block of ice. 

Chocolate. 

Allow two teaspoonfuls of grated chocolate to each 
breakfast cup of milk and w-ater, put the chocolate into a 
porcelain saucepan, add equal quantities of milk and wa- 
ter, bring to a boil, simmer six or eight minutes, strain and 
serve. Mrs. W. Hal Barker. 

Drip Coffee. 

Use Marian Harland coffee pot and best quality of Mocha, 
Java and Maricaibo coffee, ground fine. One tablespoonful 
of coft'ee to each cup of boiling water. Pour back and 
forth two or three times until desired strength is secured. 
Do not let boil. Serve immediately wath good cream. 

N. B. — Be sure and keep the coff'ee pot clean and well 
aired. Mrs. C. D. ]\Icador. 

Fruit Punch. 

The strained juice of four dozen lemons, two dozen or- 
anges and one large pineapple grated and strained, one gal- 
lon of weak tea ; mix these and add sugar to taste= — not too 
sw^eet. When about ready to serve, place large piece of ice 
in punch bowd, pour in this fluid and let stand till thor- 
oughly cold. Just before serving add a quart bottle of mar- 
aschino cherries and a quart of apollinaris or any carbo- 
nated lithia water. ' Mrs. J. C. Greenfield. 

Lemonade. 

Roll the lemon till soft, use three lemons to one quart of 
water, squeeze out every drop of juice, sweeten to taste. 
When wine is used take two-thirds of water and one of 
wine, or reject the wine and add sliced pineapple and mar- 
aschino cherries. A little soda added is liked by many. 

Mrs. C. Y. House. 



USE SPOTLESS CLEANSER (5c) and LUSTRE BOX 
POLISH (10c). 

Tea. 

Allow one teaspoonful of tea to each pint of water, scald 
and dry the teapot, while hot put in the tea, which should 
be tied in a small cheese cloth bag, if a tea ball is not used, 
let stand for three or four minutes without boiling, pour 
off and serve hot, use freshly boiled water. Make the tea 
stronger if it is to be iced. Mrs. J. A. Stover. 

Red Rock Punch. 

Amount to serve 25 guests : One pineapple, 6 oranges, 
8 lemons, 1 pint maraschino cherries, 1 pound tea, 1 pound 
sugar, 4 quarts Red Rock. Crush fruit or grind in meat 
chopper, cover with sugar and let stand four hours ; press 
out juice, put in large lump ice, add cherries, tea and Red 
Rock just before serving. Mrs. John Hagan. 



89 



SOME SUGGESTIONS 



Don't light the hurners of your gas raiiKe till you're ready to cook. The 
flame should be bluish, which shows proper and economical air mixture 
through ports at front. 

The big burner is for fast cooking or when a large vessel is used. The 
other top burners are for ordinary use. The simmering burner is quite useful 
when food has been raised to boiling point on the other burners. 

In using the oven, remember it's hottest at the top, because heat rises. 

To roast meat, have the oven hot with both burners on, then place the 
meat inside broiler oven close under the flame, leaving door open, bear the 
meat all over thus, to hold the juices in. Extinguish one burner, lower the 
meat close the door. When roast is half done, add salt and pepper and turn 
it over to cook on other side. Flour may be added at this time, to brown for 
gravy. Allow 15 to 20 minutes to the pound for beef, etc., and 25 minutes to 
the pound for pork, veal, lamb. Don't boil the roast beforehand. Don t use 
a roaster or top on the pan. Cook poultry same way, except in oven. When 
done, joints will break. 

Cookies and small cakes should be baked quickly. Heat the oven 10 
minutes. Then put them in near top of oven. 

For baking layer cakes, heat oven 2 minutes, place layers on top rack and 
turn down both burners one-fourth. Bake 15 to 20 minutes with this heat. 

Bread baking takes from 45 to 60 minutes, according to size of loaf. Bread 
should be placed about three inches from bottoni ot oven, after oven has 
been heated 10 minutes. Reduce heat one-half when bread goes in About 
five minutes before bread is done, turn oflf oven heat and let it finish baking. 

For loaf cake baking, use bright tin pan Heat oven two minutes with 
both burners. Fill cake pan about half (allowance for rising) Put cake 
on rack second from bottom and turn out one burner. Reduce the remaining 
burner one-fourth. Cook straight through with this heat Call our demon- 
strators for other directoins about cooking fruit cakes and pound cakes. 

To broil steak, heat oven 10 minutes, put meat on wire rack as near 
under flame as possible without burning and turn every ^wo or ^hree min- 
utes. Leave broiler oven door open to keep meat from catching fire, bteak 
should not be broiled beyond point where it is fluffy and juicy. 

A neglected gas range is like anything else; it becomes defective. Proper 
care is important. 

Keep the drip tray clean by washing frequently. Now and then scrub 
it with a stifl brush and some good sand soap. 

Clean too burners in two quarts hot water to one tablespoon of soda, 
or in a strong solution of lye and hot water. Dry by lighting gas a minute. 

\fter oven is used, leave door open to dry air inside and prevent rvist 
While range is warrn wipe burners and oven with cheesecloth moistened 
with three^parts cookikg oil and one part kerosene, or with unsalted grease. 



If anything gets out of order about your gas range or any other gas 
appliance in your home, our services are at your command. Call Main 4y4D 
or Atlanta 252. 

ATLANTA GAS LIGHT CO. 



90 




THE 

NEWS-HERALD 

COMPANY 



** 



P UBLISHER Q 
R INTERS - BINDERli^ 



** 



Bell Phone 60 

Atlanta 51 

EAST POINT, GA. 



The Best In The World 

Use Spotless Cleanser 
Cost Only 5 Cents 

Packed in one pound cans — Cleans Pots, Pans, Wood- 
work, Floors, Bath Tubs, Sinks, Etc. Contains no 
acids. 

The Lustre Box Polish 
Price 10 Cents 

Packed in handsomely ornamented tin boxes — polishes 
Silver, Brass, Aluminum, Windows, Mirrors. 

Cleans White Shoes Beautifully. It has no equal. 
Contains No Acids. 

THE REYNOLDS CORPORATION, MANUFACTURERS 
• Bristol, Tennessee. 

All Retail Grocery Stores Carry These Goods. 

HID 

Hid is the Purest and Daintiest Preparation Ever Produced to 
Enhance the Refined 'toilet of Men and Women. 

Hid is a most wonderful achievement. It is a very simple cream pre- 
paration that has the power to destroy absolutely, instantly and harmlessly, 
all odor of the body emanating form perspiration or any other cause. 

No longer is it necessary to be embarrassed by the unpleasant odor of 
perspiration. Hid has completely overcome it. No other toilei accessory 
ever relieved a more needed want, or met a more enthusiastic welcome 
from refined people. 

Hid is a white, greaseless cream of velvet smoothness, that is to be rub- 
bed gently into the skin, under the arms, between the toes, or any part of 
the body emanating an unpleasant odor. Hid will instantly purify and 
deodorize. Hid is a pure deodorant. It simply deodorizes,- that is, neu- 
tralizes the body odor; leaves the skm pure and fresh smelling. Price 25c 

^''%'' Jacobs* Pharmacy, Atlanta, Ga. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 488 299 4 # 



Your Gas Range 

Makes Cookery 

An ART 

It surrenders to your absolute con- 
trol the precise degree and shade 
of heat you desire. : : : : 

That heat iseuen, steady, econom- 
ical, well -distributed, easily con- 
trolled, clean and labor-saving. 

Adjust the heat to its task, and 
your whole attention is free for 
other important details. : : ; 

For suggestions, call our demonstrators, 
Main 4945 or Atlanta 252 

Our new models of ranges will 
interest you. See them in our 
show rooms, Marietta street. 

ATLANTA GAS LIGHT CO. 



WM 



