©ne 
IRectpee 



Breab Cakes pies 

©2 (Site, mellie Hmmia 



Osn® 2Stradlff@d. 



Tw@inity°IFaV 



cap 



IB 




By 
MRS. NELLIE IMMIG 



Copyright, 1915, by Mrs. Nellie Immig 



<X\ 



Published July, 1915 



DEMPSEY PRINTING CO. 

344 East 59th Street 

New York 
Telephone, Plaza 6677 

JUL 28hJl5 

©CI.A411022 



RULES FOR BAKING 



Always have oven hot. Put on lower shelf first 
after 10 or 15 minutes. Put on top shelf, loaf cake 
30 to 40 minutes. Layer 10 to 15 minutes. Fruit, 
molasses or chocolate cake bake slow. If you 
think cake is burning put pan of cold water under- 
neath. Can be put underneath any cake. Will not 
make it soggy. Put 2 or 3 thicknesses of paper un- 
der fruit or molasses cake ; 1 or 2 under other 
loaf cakes. 

To keep icing from running off cake when cold 
sprinkle Presto Flour on top before putting icing 

on. 



PRESTO BREAD 



Work 2 tablespoons butter into 3 cups sifted 
Presto Flour and 1 teaspoonful sugar. Add 
enough milk to make soft dough, toss on board 
dusted with Presto and knead -very gently, using 
as little Presto as possible. Let stand for half an 
hour. Bake for half an hour in moderate oven. 
This will make one large loaf or two small ones. 



Try a loaf of Presto bread, 

You will never want any other instead, 

It's a very famous flour, 

And' has the most magnetic power. 



PRESTO SHORT BREAD 

2 cupfuls Presto, quarter cup lard, quarter cup 
butter, half cup sugar, one egg. one teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Beat butter, lard and sugar to a cream. Add the 
egg, flour and flavoring. Roll out one-quarter inch 
thick and cut into rounds. Bake in a moderate 
oven from !<"* to 15 minutes. 



RYE BREAD 



One cup scalded milk, two cups boiling water, 
two tablespoons lard or butter, quarter cup brown 
sugar, two teaspoons salt, quarter cake yeast dis- 
solved in quarter cup lukewarm water, one cup 
flour and rye meal. 

To milk and water add butter, sugar and salt; 
when lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake and one 
cup flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise 
until light. Add rye meal until dough is stiff 
enough to knead. Knead thoroughly; shape into 
loaves, let rise again and bake. 



HOME-MADE BREAD 



Put in large bowl two level tablespoons granu- 
lated sugar, one of salt, two of lard, dissolve with 
one pint of hot milk or water brought to the boil- 
ing point. Cool with pint of water, add one yeast 
cake dissolved in cup of lukewarm water to above 
mixture. Add three quarts of sifted flour and 
knead to smooth dough. Cover with cloth, let rise 
over night. Cut into four loaves. Brush lightly 
over with melted lard or butter, let rise a few 
minutes. Bake from 40 to 50 minutes. If bread 
is made in daytime and wanted quick, use two 
yeast cakes. 



RYE BREAD 



Make the same as white bread only use two 
third Rye flour, one third white, half cup caraway 
seed. Brush top of loaf with white of egg to 
make glossy, cover with paper for first fifteen 
minutes. 



FRUIT LOAF 

Two cups bread dough, half cup sugar, one egg, 
one cup raisins and currants, small piece butter, 
two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, 
quarter teaspoon ginger, quarter teaspoon nutmeg, 
quarter teaspoon soda dissolved in water. 

Mix thoroughly, add enough flour to make stiff 
cake batten. Bake 4<"> minutes. 



CURRANT LOAF 



Three cups Presto, two-thirds cup butter, half 
cup sugar, one cup clean currants, grated rind of 
one lemon. 

Rub butter into Presto and sugar. Add cur- 
rants, lemon rind, and enough milk to make thick 
drop batter. Bake 40 to 50 minutes in moderate 
oven. 



Try some Presto corn-bread. 
With some honey thickly spread, 
Bake it just a little while, 
You will find it's just your style. 



10 



RICH CORN BREAD 



Mix together one cupful of corn meal, two cup- 
fuls of Presto flour. Melt some butter enough to 
measure three-quarters cupful, stir this in and also 
quarter cup of sugar and one cupful sweet milk 
and two eggs well beaten. Bake in shallow or 
gem pans for 30 minutes. 



11 



PLAIN CORN BREAD 



One and one-half cups Presto Flour, one-half 
cup yellow meal, one tablespoon butter, one table- 
spoon sugar, one cup mi4k. 

Sift corn meal, Presto and sugar. Add milk and 
last butter. Bake 30 minutes. 



19 



CINNAMON COFFEE CAKE 



Two cups Presto Flour, one-third cup sugar, 
half teaspoon cinnamon, one egg, four tablespoons 
melted butter, one cup milk. 

• Mix Presto, sugar and cinnamon together. Sift 
twice, add well beaten egg to milk, then add to 
Presto, and then melted butter. Put in well-but- 
tered shallow pan. Sprinkle with granulated sugar 
and cinnamon. Bake 25 to 30 minutes. 



13 



CRUMB COFFEE CAKE 



Two cups Presto flour, one-third cup sugar, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, one egg, four tablespoons 
melted butter, one cup milk. 

Mix Presto, sugar and cinnamon together. Sift 
twice, add well-beaten egg to milk, then add to 
Presto, and then melted butter. Put in well-but- 
tered shallow pan. For top take one tablespoon 
butter, two tablespoons Presto, one-half teaspoon 
cinnamon, two tablespoons granulated sugar, and 
mix in bowl until it forms crumbs, and spread on 
dough. 

Bake 25 to 30 minutes. 



14 



COFFEE CAKES 



Mix through sieve two cups Presto Flour, two 
tablespoons sugar. Pwt in two tablespoons butter. 
Beat two eggs, and half cup milk. Add more milk 
if necessary to mix to soft dough. Roll out one 
inch thick, sprinkle with one cup chopped dates, 
almonds and figs mixed together. Roll a little 
thinner, sprinkle with granulated sugar. Lay on 
greased shallow pan, and bake in hot oven. Break 
in squares and serve hot. 



15 



RAISIN COFFEE CAKE 



One-quarter cup butter., half cup powdered 
sugar, one and one-half cups Presto, one egg. 
quarter teaspoon cinnamon, one cup raisins, half 
cup milk. 

Cream butter until light, add sugar slowly, then 
well-beaten yolk of egg. Mix Presto and cinna- 
mon together. Sift three times, add Presto alter- 
nately with milk, then raisins, which have been 
rolled in Presto sprinkled into the dough, then 
fold white of egg last. Bake 30 minutes. 



APPLE STRUDEL CAKE 

Sift two cups of Presto, work in two tablespoons 
lard or butter, add a little milk and water to make 
soft dough. Roll half inch thick. Take one cup 
chopped nuts, one cup raisins, two cups apples cut 
like dice, two tablespoons sugar, half teaspoon 
cinnamon. Mix all together. Cut dough in two 
pieces, spread fruit on, cover with other piece of 
dough. Brush top with milk. Bake in quick oven 
from 25 to 30 minutes. 



17 



POP-OVERS 



One cupful Presto Flour, two teaspoons melted 
butter, seven-eighths cup milk, two eggs. 

Sift Presto, add milk gradually in order to ob- 
tain smooth batter ; add eggs beaten until ligrrt 
and melted butter. Beat 5 minutes, using Dover 
eggbeater; turn into hissing hot greased pan-s. 
Bake from 30 to 35 minutes. 



Mother got an awful fright. 
For all the cake was out of sight, 
She took some Presto which is light, 
And made some pop-overs with delight. 



18 



WAFFLES 

Beat 2 eggs light and then alternately add 2 
cups Presto Flour, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon melt- 
ed butter. Bake in hot waffle iron until golden 
brown. 



If you find the time is slow, 
Mix up quick some Presto dough, 
With some butter and some milk, 
They will be as fine as silk. 



19 



TEA CAKES 

Three cups Presto Flour, two-thirds cup sugar, 
3 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon caraway seeds, 
milk to mix soft biscuit dough. Roll out one- 
quarter inch thick and cut in circles. Bake in flat 
pan in hot oven. 



20 



SPICED BUNS 



Three cups Presto, one-quarter cup lard and 
one-quarter cup butter, 2 tablespoons powdered 
sugar, half teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup milk. 

Work lard and butter into Presto. Sift sugar 
with Presto, also cinnamon. Add milk to make 
thick batter. Drop in muffin tins. Bake 15 to 20 
minutes. 



21 



CINNAMON BUNS 

Sift 2 cups Presto Flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 
tablespoons butter, and add milk to make, soft 
dough. Roll half inch thick. Spread with soft 
butter, a little cinnamon and granulated sugar. 
Roll like jell)'' roll, cut in inch slices, lay close to- 
gether in greased pan. Bake in quick oven 20 to 
30 minutes. 



Hot cross buns, hot cross buns, 

One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns, 
If you're brother won't eat 'em, put them wise. 

Tell them of the Presto in 'em and watch their 
surprise. 



22 



JELLY DOUGHNUTS 



Beat 1 egg light, add three-quarters cup sugar, 
half teaspoon nutmeg, 1 cup milk and enough 
Presto to make soft dough. Roll half inch thick, 
cut in rings or small ball. Put a little jelly in the 
center. Fry in hot fat until golden brown. 



23 



CRULLERS 



One cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, half 
teaspoon cinnamon, 2 teaspoons lard or butter. 

Enough Presto to roll. Mix sugar, eggs and 
shortening, add milk and cinnamon, lastly add the 
flour. Roll this out, cut as you do doughnuts; fry 
in deep lard, which is hot enough to brown a piece 
of dry bread. Add \ cup currants if wanted. 



24 



MUFFINS 



Quarter cup butter, quarter cup sugar, 1 egg. 
seven-eighths cup milk, 2 cups "Presto" self-raising 
flour. 

Cream the butter ; to it gradually add the sugar, 
mixing the two well together. Beat the egg 
and add it to the butter and sugar, and then add 
alternately "Presto," and milk. Turn into a but- 
tered gem pan and bake for twenty minutes in a 
hot oven. 



You may bake Presto puddings, 
You may bake Presto pies, 
But if you eat the muffins, 
They'll drive away your sighs. 



25 



H-O MUFFINS 



Sift 2 cups Presto Flour, 1 cup oatmeal, work 2 
tablespoons lard or butter. Beat 1 egg, add 1 cup 
milk, and add to the above ingredients. Make 
thinner batter than plain muffins. Bake in hot 
oven 15 to 20 minutes. , 



26 



DROP BISCUITS 



Two cups Presto, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 table- 
spoon lard, and enough milk to make a thick bat- 
ter. Sift Presto twice; work butter and lard into 
Presto and add milk slowly until Presto is quite 
wet, not too thin, half fill greased muffin tin. Bake 
in hot oven from 20 to 30 minutes. 



Tell me not in mournful numbers, 
All cakes are not what they look ; 

Oft it is the flour encumbers, 
And at times it is the cook. 



27 



H-O OATMEAL GEMS 



One egg, cupful of cooked oatmeal, cupful of 
Presto, 1 cup sweet milk. 

Beat egg very lightly, add milk to egg, then oat- 
meal, and then Presto ; beat good. Put in well- 
greased muffin tins. Bake 20 minutes. 



28 



APPLE FRITTERS 

One and half cups Presto Flour, 1 tablespoon melt- 
ed butter, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 apples cut in quar- 
ter inch slices, 1 well beaten egg, and enough milk 
to make drop batter. Sift dry ingredients into bowl, 
add milk to egg and stir liquid into dry materials, 
beating thoroughly and add melted butter last. 

Cover slices of apples with batter, dip out by 
tablespoonfuls and drop in deep fat. Cook 3 to 
4 minutes. Drain and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 



29 



GRIDDLE CAKES 



Sift 2 cups of Presto flour, beat 1 egg light, add 
1 tablespoon of melted butter, a little molasses or 
syrup, and add enough milk to make very thin 
batter. 

Bake quick on gridiron. 



When as with dough my Julia bakes, 
Then, then methinks how fine she makes, 
Those light and golden griddle cakes. 



30 






DUMPLINGS FOR POTPIE 



Sift 2 cups Presto flour. Beat 1 egg light, add 
a little milk, and then add to the above to make a 
thick batter. Drop in teaspoonfuls into the chicken 
or mutton broth, or cook in boiling water for IS 
minutes. Keep cover on tight. 



31 



H-O COOKIES— No. 1 



Cream 2 talbesppons butter and 1 cup sugar, 2 
eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, half teaspoon salt, 3 cups 
H-0 oatmeal. 

Flavor with almond extract. Drop from teaspoon 
on buttered tin an inch apart. Bake in quick oven 
from 10 to 15 minutes. This makes 50. Will keep 
several weeks. 



"Make some cookies of H-O, 
You will find it won't be slow, 
It will make the children grow. 



82 



H-O COOKIES— No. 2 

One cup brown ^ugar, half cup lard or half cup 
butter, 2 eggs, half teaspoon soda in 4 tablespoons of 
water, 2 cups Presto flour, half teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 cup chopped raisins, half cup chopped nuts, 2 
cups H-0 oatmeal. 



COOKIES 

Two cups Presto, three-quarters cup butter or 
lard, 2 eggs, 2 cups H-0 oats uncooked, half cup 
milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, half cup chopped 
raisins, half cup nuts, chopped fine. 

Drop teaspoon of batter in each muffin tin. Bake 
20 minutes. Mix butter with Presto, beat eggs light 
add to milk, and then add to Presto. Add H-O. 
then cinnamon, and chopped raisins and nuts last. 



34 



H-O CAKE 

Two cupsful boiling water, half cupful molasses, 
tablespoon salt, tablespoon butter, half yeast cake 
dissolved in half cup lukewarm water, cupful H-O, 
4 and a half cupfuls flour. 

Add boiling water to oats and allow to stand one 
hour; add molasses, salt, butter, dissolved yeast 
cake and flour. Let rise, beat thoroughly, turn into 
bread pans greased; let rise again and bake. 



35 



DELICIOUS FRUIT TARTS 



One cup Presto., tablespoon butter, 1 egg, a little 
milk. 

Sift Presto twice, work butter in, beat egg light, 
add milk enough to make thick batter. Put a little 
in well-greased muffin tins, with half a peach, 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake 20 minutes. Serve with 
whipped cream or meringue. 

Beat white of egg with a little powdered sugar 
until dry, add a little vanilla, and put a little on 
each peach. Put back in oven till meringue is 
brown. The same for apple tarts, only sliced apples. 



Maid of Athens "ere we part, 

Give, oh give me back my tart, 

If you won't yet I implore, 

Here's some Presto, make some more. 



36 



ALMOND SQUARES 



Cream 1 cup butter, and add 1 cup powdered 
sugar. Beat 2 eggs light and add to above. Add 1 
cup Presto Flour, quarter teaspoon extract of al- 
mond, spread very thin in shallow pan. Sprinkle 
chopped nuts and granulated sugar on top. Bake 
10 to 15 minutes. When baked cut in squares. 



37 



PEACH OR APPLE TORTE 



Line pudding dish with sliced peaches or apples. 
Sprinkle with sugar, then layer of Force on top. 
Wet with a little milk and dot with butter. Bake 
half hour. Apple sauce can be used. Serve with 
lemon sauce or whipped cream. Berries or pine- 
apple can be made the same way. 



"Try a layer of some Force, 
And some apples spread across, 
A little sugar and some spice. 
You will find it verv nice." 



38 



NUT OR DATE TORTE 



Two eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 2 cups Force, 
1 cup chopped dates, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff, add the 
beaten yolks and the other ingredients. Bake slow- 
ly in moderate oven for 25 minutes. Serve with 
whipped cream. 



39 



NUT OR DATE LOAF 



To 1 cup Presto add 1 porrnd dates cut small, 1 
pound walnuts cut small, 1 cup sugar, yolks of 4 
eggs. Mix thoroughly, add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Fold whites in last. Bake in loaf tin, slow oven 
from 40 to 50 minutes. 



(d 



FRUIT TURNOVERS 



One cup dates, chopped tine, grated rind and juice 
of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 large teaspoon Presto, 1 
tablespoon orange juice. Mix all together. Roll 
pie-crust thin. Cut in 4-inch squares. Put table- 
spoon of the mixture on one half, turn the other 
half over. Press edges tight. Bake in moderate 
oven for over 30 minutes. Use half cup raisins, 
half cup currants in place of dates, if desired. 



41 



DATE CAKE 



One lb. dates cut small, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 
4 eggs, three-quarters cup sugar, half cup milk. 

Stir all together and add 2 tablespoons of Presto 
Flour. Bake in shallow pan or layers. Serve with 
whipped cream and put a dash of nutmeg or cin- 
namon on top of cream. 



42 



FRUIT DROP CAKES 



Half cup butter, one and half cups brown sugar. 
3 eggs, 2 and half cups Presto. 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, half teaspoon cloves, 1 lb. English walnuts, 
(broken in small pieces), 1 lb. dates, (chopped 
line). Drop from teaspoon and bake in hot oven. 



43 



GINGERBREAD 



Cream quarter cup butter, add half cup sugar, 
yolk of 1 egg, half cup molasses, 1 and three-quar- 
ters cup Presto, 1 teaspoon ginger, half teaspoon 
cinnamon, quarter teaspoon cloves, altogether. 
Trfcn alternately add half cup milk and Presto. 
Fold white in last. Bake slow 30 minutes. Nice 
with whipped cream or chocolate icing. 



44 



APPLE OR PEACH CAKE 

Work 1 tablespoon butter or lard into 1 cup 
Presto Flour sifted with two tablespoons sugar. 
Beat 1 egg light add little milk to the above to 
make soft batter. Spread very thin (like pie 
crust) in shallow pan. Slice fruit and arrange in 
rotation, press around the edges so as dough will 
be raised. Sprinkle cinnamon and sugar on top 
and a few currants. Bake 20 minutes. 

For covered fruit cake use 2 cups Presto, 2 
tablespoons shortening, divide into 2 parts, for 
top roll thin and cover the fruit. Press edges to- 
gether; brush top with milk. Bake 20 to 30 min- 
utes. (Berries can be used the same way). 



45 



BAKED FRUIT OR BERRY PUDDING 



Quarter cup butter, half cup powdered sugar, 
half cup milk, cup of Presto, half teaspoon vanilla, 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, then well-beaten 
yolk of Qgg, then add Presto and milk alternately, 
and then add vanilla. Fold white in last. Put 
sliced fruit or berries in pudding dish, sprinkle 
sugar, add a little water and pour cake batter 
over. Bake 30 to 40 minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream or hard sauce. 



Try some fruit in a dish, 
Whatever kind you may wish. 
A little sugar and Presto Flour, 
Then you bake it for half an hour. 



46 



PLUM PUDDING 



One cup chopped suet, cup raisins, cup currants, 
cup bread crumbs, cup molasses, cup cut citron, 
lemon and orange peel, half cup whiskey, 3 tea- 
spoons cinnamon, 1 and a half teaspoons cloves, 
teaspoon nutmeg, half teaspoon mace. 

Cover and let stand a few days until wanted. 
Add 2 cups plain flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 large 
teaspoons baking soda. Put in well greased pud- 
ding mold. Let boil 3 hours. 

Sauce 

One cup milk, cup of water. Put in double boil- 
er, thicken with 2 teaspoons cornstarch, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, yolk of 1 egg, and half glass wine 
or whisky. 

Hard Sauce 
Cream small piece butter, add yolk of 1 egg and 
powdered sugar until hard. Use any kind of flav- 
oring. Put on ice. 

47 



YUM YUM CAKE 



Three teaspoons cinnamon, half teaspoon cloves, 
2 cups sugar, 2 cups water, 2 tablespoons lard, 
1 box seeded raisins. 

Boil 5 minutes, let cool and add 5 cups Presto. 
Bake slow 40 minutes. Use more fruit and spices, 
also small glass of brandy, and cut citron in slices 
if richer cake is wanted. 



48 



FRUIT CAKE 



Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, half teaspoon cloves, 
quarter teaspoon mace, 1 cup strong coffee, (cold), 
4 cups Presto Flour, half lb. currants, half lb. citron, 
half lb. raisins, quarter glass brand}. 

Cream butter, add sugar and well beaten eggs. 
then molasses. Sift spices with Presto Flour. Roll 
fruit in flour and then alternately the Presto, fruit 
and coffee. Fold whites in last. Bake slow for 40 
minutes. 



49 



CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 



Beat the yolk of 6 eggs light and add 1 cup pow- 
dered sugar. Melt 3 tablespoons cocoa with little 
butter over hot water. Let cool and add to above, 
then add 2 cups Force, half lb. ground nuts and 
last the beaten whites. Bake in 2 shallow pans. 
When cool, cover with any kind of jelly. Put icing 
on if wanted. Cut in squares or diamond shape. 
Bake from 15 to 20 minutes. 



50 



RICH FRUIT CAKE 

One lb. flour, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. butter, half sliced 
citron, 4 lb. currants, 4 lb. raisins, 9 eggs, table- 
spoon cinnamon, 1 nutmeg, 3 gills brandy. 

Mix fruit together, add flour, mix spices with 
sugar. Cream butter, add sugar, yolks of eggs 
then brandy, whites of eggs and lastly flour. One 
lb. chopped almonds may be used instead of raisins 
Bake slow for three hours. Put pan of cold water 
under cake to prevent burning. When hot throw 
away and refill again with cold water. Can be 
used for any kind of cake; will not make it soggy 



''Try some Presto for your cake, 
And you'll always like to bake, 
It's a very famous flour, 
The cook will use it everv hour." 



51 



DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE 



Half lb. dried apples soaked over night, chop and 
boil with 2 cups molasses for 2 and a half to 3 
hours, add three-quarters cup butter, 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar, 2 Qggs, half lb. raisins cut in half, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, quarter teaspoon ground 
cloves, a little allspice, and enough Presto to make 
a stiff batter. Cream butter, add sugar, also well- 
beaten yolks, then apples and molasses. Sift Presto 
with spices. Bake 1 and three-quarters of an hour 
in slow oven. 



52 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE— No. 1 



Two cups Presto, half cup butter, 1 cup sugar 
half cup seeded raisins, 1 cup apple-sauce, teaspoon 
cinnamon, half teaspoon ground cloves, half tea- 
spoon grated nutmeg. 

Quarter teaspoon soda to be put in apple-sauce. 
Cream butter, add sugar, then apple-sauce. Sift 
cinnamon with Presto, and add to the first mix- 
ture, and then cut raisins. 

Bake 40 minutes in medium oven. 



53 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE— No. 2 



Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sour 
apple-sauce, 3 cups Presto, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon cloves, half teaspoon mace, half tea- 
spoon grated nutmeg, quarter cup soda put in 
apple-sauce, pound raisins. 

Cream butter and sugar. Dissolve soda in fresh- 
ly made apple-sauce, add sugar to sauce, fruit and 
spices. Bake in slow oven 45 minutes. 



54 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE— No. 3 



One cup apple-sauce, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups Presto, 
quarter teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cloves, teaspoon 
allspice, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 cup raisins, half 
cup lemon peel. Bake slow. 



v 



55 



MARBLE CAKE 



Half cup butter, l cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 2 cups Presto, two-thirds cup 
milk or water. 

Cream butter, add sugar and well-beaten yolk. 
Mix 'thoroughly and then alternately add Presto 
and milk, then add vanilla. Fold whites in last. 
Separate in three parts. To one bowl add a few 
drops of pink coloring, to the other 2 table- 
spoons cocoa melted with 1 teaspoon butter 
over hot water. Drop a spoonful of each in a 
well-buttered deep cake pan until all gone. Bake 
40 minutes. 



50 



SPICED CAKE 



Four cups Presto, 1 cup butter, 1 cup brown 
sugar, half cup cold water, half cup sour milk, 
2 eggs, one-third cup molasses, 2 teaspoons cin- 
namon, quarter teaspoon cloves, quarter teaspoon 
ground nutmeg, quarter cup citron, cut fine, 1 
cup cut raisins, quarter cup currants, quarter cup 
walnuts, cut fine. 

Flavor with lemon rind and juice. Cream 
butter, add sugar, then well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
then molasses. Add cinnamon, cloves and nut- 
meg to Presto and sift three times. Add this to 
first mixture alternately with sour milk and cof- 
fee. Add raisins, currants, citron (flour well), 
and add lemon. Fold whites in last. Bake 1 
hour in medium oven in well-greased loaf pan. 



57 



SPICE CAKE 



Sift 2 and one-half cups Presto, 1 tablespoon 
mixed spices together. Beat 1 egg light, add 
two-thirds cup sugar, two-thirds cup molasses. 
Stir in dry ingredients and 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
Add two-thirds cup melted butter. Bake in shal- 
low pan 30 minutes. Use a cup of milk or water. 



58 



MOLASSES FRUIT CAKE 



Three cups Presto Flour, half cup molasses, 
quarter cup butter, 1 cup ground walnuts, half 
cup raisins, 1 cup water, 2 eggs. Bake for 30 
minutes. 



59 



MOLASSES PLAIN CAKE 



One cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup black cof- 
fee or 1 cup sour milk with 1 teaspoon essence of 
coffee. 3 cups Presto Flour, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon 
ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, half cup lard or but- 
ter. Bake slow for half hour. Add fruit if 
wanted. 



60 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 



Put 3 cups milk in double boiler, thicken with 
3 large tablespoons cornstarch blended with milk, 
3 tablespoons sugar, 3 tablespoons cocoa until nice 
and smooth, add yolk of 1 or 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Can be used for pie or cake filling or put 
in small mould which has been dipped in cold 
water. Serve with whipped cream or white of egg 
beaten dry. For pudding put in deep pan and 
put beaten whites on top. Bake until golden 
brown. 



61 



MEAT PIE 

Put gravy left over from roast meat on fire with 
a few sliced onions and a little water. Let 
cook a while then add cooked meat; cut small; 
add little salt and pepper, some cooked potatoes, 
also any other vegetables. Don't boil — Let them 
heat good, put in deep pan. cover with soft drop 
biscuit dough or roll thin and cover. Bake 20 to 
30 minutes. 



62 



SILVER LAYER CAKE 

Half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 cups 
Presto, whites of 6 eggs, bake in 3 layers. 

Filling. Two cups sugar, whites of 3 eggs well 
beaten, 1 cup cocoanut, half cup seeded raisins 
chopped, half cup figs chopped, half cup dates 
chopped, half cup currants chopped, 1 cup blanch- 
ed almonds. 

For the filling boil the sugar with enough water 
until it threads. Pour slowly into the egg whites, 
beating steadily all the time, then add the fruit to 
the icing gradually, stirring all the time. When 
well blended spread between the layers, and on top 
layer, sprinkle plenty of cocoanut. 



63 



ICE CREAM LAYER CAKE 

Half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, half cup milk, 2 
cups Presto, whites of 4 eggs. 

Mix dry ingredients. Cream butter and sugar, 
add milk, then flour, and beat. Add whipped 
whites and beat again. Flavor wth almond ex- 
tract. Bake in three jelly tins in hot oven, and 
when cold put together with boiled icing flavored 
with almond extract. 



Icing 

Boil 1 cup granulated sugar until it spins a 
thread. Beat white of tgg' a little, add it to the 
hot syrup. Beat until cold and add a few drops 
of coloring, any desired shade. Also flavoring. 



64 



MOCHA LAYER CAKE 



Four eggs, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 cup Presto 
Flour, 1 tablespoon mocha essence. 

Beat yolks very light, add sugar slowly, Presto, 
then add mocha essence. Beat white of egg and 
fold in last. 



Filling 

One small bottle whipped cream, add 2 table- 
spoons powdered sugar and 1 teaspoon mocha 
essence. Spread between layers and sprinkle with 
chopped nuts. 



Filling— No. 2 

Quarter cup butter, 1 cup confectioner's sugar, 
2 teaspoons dry coca, 4 large tablespoons hot 
strong coffee, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, add cocoa, then 
coffee, and last vanilla. Add more sugar if not 
thick enough. Spread between and on top of lay- 
ers. Sprinkle chopped nuts on. 

65 



CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 



One-third cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 2 
eggs, 2 cups Presto, grated rind and half juice oi 
1 lemon, three-quarters cup milk. 

Sift Presto three times, cream butter, add sugar 
slowly, then add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
then rind and lemon juice, and then add milk and 
Presto alternately. Fold whites in last. Bake 12 
to 15 minutes. 

Filling 

One cup powdered sugar, 2 large tablespoons 
cocoa, enough milk to wet chocolate and sugar. 
Put in double boiler until melted, add yolk of 1 
egg very slowly, a small piece of butter. Cook 2 
minutes, take from fire and add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 



As I was going to St. Ives, 
I met a women who was not wise, 
Until she used some Presto Flour, 
And now her wisdom turned to power. 

66 



CARAMEL LAYER CAKE 



Half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups Presto, 3 
eggs, three-quarters of cup of milk. 

Cream butter, add sugar and cream together. 
Add eggs, one at a time and beat well. Add va- 
nilla. Sift Presto and add alternately with milk. 
Grease layer tins, pour in cake mixture and bake 
in moderately hot oven for 15 minutes. 

Filling 

One cup cream or milk, 3 cups brown sugar, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla, half cup chop- 
ped nuts. 



We may live without friends, 
We may live without books 

But civilized men, 
Cannot live without cooks. 



67 



COCOANUT CAKE 

Boil sugar and milk for 20 minutes or until it 
strings. Remove from fire and add butter and 
vanilla. Beat until it begins to thicken. Then add 
nuts and spread between layers. 

Half cup butter, 1 cup sugar. 1 egg, 1 cup milk. 
2 cups sifted Presto. 

Cream the butter and sugar and add the beaten 
yolk of the egg; then the milk and flour alternate- 
ly and last the whipped white of the egg. Beat in 
three jelly tins in a quick oven. 

Filling 

Half cup shredded cocoanut, the juice of 2 
oranges, the grated rind of quarter of one orange. 
2 tablespoons corn starch, 3 tablespoons sugar. 

To the orange juice and grated rind add enough 
water to make 1 and one-half cupfuls of liquid. 
Bring to a boil, and stir in the cornstarch made 
smooth in a small quantity of cold water. Add 
the sugar and cook for 10 minutes or until done. 
Spread one-third of this mixture on to the first 
layer of cake; sprinkle with shredded cocoanut; 
repeat operation with the second and third layers, 
and finish with a thick blanket of cocoanut on top 
of the cake. 68 



LEMON LAYER CAKE 



One-third cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 2 
eggs, 2 cups Presto, 1 teaspoon vanilla, three-quar- 
ters of cup of milk. 

Cream butter and sugar slowly, then well-beaten 
yolks of eggs. Add Presto and milk alternately 
and then flavoring. Fold whites in last which have 
been beaten until dry. Bake in layer, time 12 to 
15 minutes. 

Filling 

One grated lemon rind and juice, 2 cups confec- 
tioners sugar, enough hot water to wet sugar. 
Spread between layers and on top. 



69 



ORANGE LAYER CAKE 



One-third cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar. 2 
eggs, 2 cups Presto, 1 teaspoon vanilla, three- 
quarters of cup of milk. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, then well-beaten 
yolks of eggs, then add Presto and milk alternate- 
ly, and then add flavoring. Fold whites in last 
which have been beaten until dry. 

Bake in layer tins 12 to 15 minutes. 

Filling and Icing 

One large orange grated and juice, 2 cups con- 
fectioners sugar. Add enough hot water to wet 
sugar, after juice has been removed shred orange, 
adda little sugar. Put a little icing between layers 
with shredded orange. Cover cake with rest of 
icing. 



70 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 



Cream hall cup of butter, add 1 cup powdered 
sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups Presto, a little water and 
chocolate mixture. 

Mixture 

Half a cup of sugar, half cup of milk, 2 large 
tablespoons cocoa, let melt. When cool, add yolk 
of 1 egg, then add to above. Bake in loaf 30 to 
40 minutes or in layers.. Serve with cream or 
icing. 



71 



CHOCOLATE FRUIT CAKE 



Cream half a cup of butter, add 2 cups of sugar, 
3 eggs, half a cup of milk, 2 large tablespoons 
cocoa, half a cup of hot coffee over cocoa, 3 cups 
of Presto Flour. Bake in loaf or layers 40 min- 
utes. 

Filling 

Beat white of 1 egg with half a cup of sugar. 
Grate large apple, add juice of 1 lemon. Beat to- 
gether for filling. Let it get warm through. 



72 



RAINBOW CAKE 



Cream 1 cup butter, add 2 cups powdered 
sugar. Beat 4 egg yolks light and add to but- 
ter and sugar. Mix thoroughly and then alter- 
nately add 3 cups Presto Flcur, a little water 
and any kind of flavoring. Fold whites in last 
and separate into 4 parts. Add a few drops of 
red coloring to one; a few drops of green to the 
other; and 2 tablespoons of cocoa melted and 
when cool, add to the third part. Drop a spoon- 
ful of each in square shallow pan alongside of 
each other until all one. Bake 40 to 50 minute.-. 

Icing 

Two cups confectioners sugar, a little hot 
water, any kind of flavoring, also a little color- 
ing. 



If for luncheon you would take, 
Presto muffins quickly bake, 
Nothing tastes quite as good, 
I know you'll eat them as you should. 
73 



CHICKEN PIE 



Cook chicken with a few onions until tender, 
add some rice. Put in deep dish; (Cover as 
Meat Pie). Bake 20 to 30 minutes. 



Some soldiers once they asked a cook, 

To bake a cannon ball; 
But she replied that Presto biscuits, 

Were not that kind at all. 



74 



CUSHION CAKE 



One cupful sugar, half cupful butter, 2 eggs, 
half cupful milk, l teaspoon vanilla, 2 cupfuis 
Presto. 

Cream sugar and butter, add well-beaten eggs 
and milk. Sift Presto and add to the above mix- 
ture. Divide dough into 2 parts and to 1 part 
add:— 2 tablespoons molasses, 1 cupful raisins, 
half teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, half teaspoon nutmeg. 

Bake dark part 20 minutes. Take out of oven. 
Spread white part on top. Return to oven and 
bake until done. 



75 



GOLD CAKE 



Five tablespoons butter, three-quarters cup 
sugar, half cup milk, 4 egg yolks, 1 and one- 
half cups Presto. 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat t'he egg yolks 
until very light and add to creamed mixture, 
alternating with the milk. Bake in a moderate 
oven 30 to 40 minutes. 



If you think you are too thin, 
Try some Force with berries in, 
A das'h of sugar and some cream, 
You will find this dish to be a dream. 



76 



SILVER NUT CAKE 



Half cup butter, l cup sugar, whites of 4 eggs, 
half cup milk, half teaspoor vanilla, 2 cups 
Presto, 1 cup pecans or English Waluts, (cut 
small). 

Bake in loaf 40 minutes. Cream butter, add 
sugar slowly, add Presto and milk alternately, 
and then add chopped nuts. Fold whites in 
last. Bake 40 minutes. 



Birds of a feather flock together, 
And so do foods of course; 

That's why you find three of a kind 
Like Presto, H-O, Force. 



77 



COCO AN UT CAKE 



Cream half cup butter, add 1 cup sugar. Beat 
2 eggs light. Keep quarter cup out for the top. 
Add to above: — 2 cups Presto, 1 cup milk, 3 
teaspoon vanilla. 

Put in shallow pan. Cover dough lightly 
with Presto. Then spread on egg and sprinkle 
with cocoanut. Bake 30 minutes. 



78 



LEMON LOAF 



Cream 1 cup butter, add 2 cups powder sugar, 
yolks 4 eggs, grated rind and little juice of 1 
large skin lemon, and then alternately add 3 
cups Presto and little water. Fold whites in 
last. Bake in loaf 40 minutes. Add 1 cup cocoa- 
nut if wanted. 

Icing 

Two cups confectioners sugar, the juice of 
lemon and little hot water. Add few drops of 
lemon coloring to make icing yellow. 



79 



LEMON COCOANUT LOAF 



Two cups Presto Flour, l cup powdered sugar. 
2 eggs, half cup butter, half cup milk. 1 grated 
rind and half the juice of 1 lemon. 1 cup shred- 
ded cocoanut. Cream the butter; add sugar 
slowly, then well-beaten yolk of eggs, grated 
lemon, and juice. Add milk and Presto alter- 
nately, then add cocoanut. Fold whites in last. 
Bake in well^buttered loaf pan for 30 minutes. 

Icing 

One cup confectioners sugar, half of the lemon 
juice, enough hot water to wet sugar. Spread 
on the cake. 



M 



CITRON LOAF 



Cream half cup butter, add 1 cup sugar, 3 well- 
beaten yolks, add rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
Add 2 cups Presto and half cup milk alternate- 
ly. Stir a scant cup cibron sliced very thin. 
Fold whites in last. Bake 30 to 40 minutes. 
Repeat same for raisins or currant loaf. Spread 
with icing. 



81 



PLAIN ICING FOR CAKE 



Two cups confectioners sugar, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, add a little hot water, beat until smooth, 
and then add a few drops of any coloring, or 
use fresh fruit syrup instead of water coloring. 



If you think you're getting old. 

Eat some H-0 hot or cold. 

Make this in a little gem. 

You will surely eat lots of them. 



82 



CHOCOLATE ICING 



No. 1 

Mix 2 cups confectioners sugar, 2 large table- 
spoons cocoa, add a little hot water and a tea- 
spoon vanilla. Thin down with milk, cream or 
water. Spread on cake. 

No. 2 

Two cups confectioners sugar, 2 tablespoon* 
dried cocoa, 1 teaspoon vanilla, and enough 
hot coffee to wet sugar. Mix until smooth. 

No. 3 

Two cups powdered sugar, 2 ounces melted 
chocolate, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 



83 



COCOA FROSTING 



Four teaspoons cocoa, 2 tablespoons cold 
water, 3 tablespoons hot water, 'half teaspoon 
vanilla, 2 cups confectioners sugar. 



In times of old, sang pirates bold: 

"Yo ho, my lads, yo ho" ; 
But now they flout that song and shout : 

"H-O, my lads, H-O." 



84 



COFFEE ICING 



No. 1 

Two cups confectioner's sugar, a little hot 
water, 1 tablespoon mocha essence. 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. 

No. 2 

Two cups confectioners sugar, half cup hot 
steaming coffee, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Stir until 
smooth. 

No. 3 

Beat 2 whites stiff, add 2 cups powdered sugar, 
1 tablespoon mocha essence, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 



85 



BEAT JUICE FOR COLORING 



Boil large beet, when cooked remove skin 
Press through sieve or cheese cloth until juice 
is all out. Put in bottle, use for icings, cake or 
custard. Keep bottle well-corked. 



"In the Spring a young man's fancy lightly 

turns to tho.ughts of love,' 
If you feed him right and use the recipes 

you read above. 



86 



BURNT SUGAR FOR COLORING 



Take 2 cups granulated sugar. Put in frying 
pan with very little water; let it burn. Take 
from fire, when cool put in bottle, use for mak- 
ing cake dark or meat gravy. 



If you're feeling kind of blue, 

And you don't know what to do, 

Mix up quick a fritter batter, 

Use any kind of fruit, it doesn't matter. 



SI 



ALMOND CREAM LOAF 



Two cups Presto, 3 eggs , 1 cup powdered 
sugar, small bottle thin cream. 

One teaspoon flavoring or quarter teaspoon 
extract of almond or grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Beat yelks until light, and add sugar slowly. 
Sift Presto 3 times, add cream and Presto alter- 
nately, then flavoring. Fold white in last, which 
have been beaten until dry. Put shelled almonds 
in bottom of well-buttered cake pan and pour 
dough over. Bake 40 minutes. 



88 



CHOCOLATE LOAF 



Three cups Presto Flour, half cup butter, 1 
large cup sour milk, half cake melted choco- 
late, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 4 eggs. 

Cream butter, add sugar, then yolks of eggs 
and chocolate. Add the milk and Presto alter- 
nately, then add the vanilla, fold whites of eggs 
in last. Bake 40 to 50 minutes. 



89 



PEACH OR BANANA LAYER CAKE 



Slice fruit, cover layers with whipped cream 
Spread fruit on ; repeat same for top. Use at one* 
for they get black. Make layer cake recipe for 
pineapple, shred, add a little powdered sugar with 
cream. Cherries can be used when pitted. 



Try a sponge or Moche Tart, 
With some Presto for a start, 
You will think it's very fine, 
When you sit down to dine. 



90 



SPONGE CAKE 



Beat 4 eggs light, three-quarters of cup of sugar, 
three-quarters of cup of Presto, grated rind and 
half juice of 1 lemon. Bake in loaf M minute? 
or in layers 12 to 15 minute?. 

Cocoa sponge made by using one-half cup of 
cocoa sifted with flour. 

One lemon rind and juice. 1 yolk of egg, 1 table- 
spoon butter, half a cup of sugar. Boil until 
thick. Let cool, and spread between layers. 



91 



LEMON OR ORANGE SPONGE CAKE 



Beat 8 eggs very light, add 1 cup of powdered 
sugar, grated rind and half the juice of 1 orange, 
1 cup sifted Presto, and last add 3 tablespoons hot 
water. Bake in layer or jelly tins from 10 to 12 
minutes. Lemon cake is made the same way by 
using quarter juice. 



FILLING 



Beat half a pint of cream, add one-third cup of 
sugar, a little juice or vanilla, add orange or lemon 
coloring to cream for desired shade. 



n 



COCOA FUDGE 



One and one-half cups pulverized sugar, 1 
cup granulated sugar, pinch of salt, 6 table- 
spoons cocoa, and two-thirds cup rich milk. 
Boil until it makes a firm ball when dropped in 
cold water. 

Remove dish from the fire, add 1 large table- 
spoon butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat until 
like thick molasses and turn into buttered pan. 
Score into squares before entirely cold. A cup 
of cocoanut or broken up nut meats may be 
added for variety. 



93 



LEMON OR ORANGE COTTAGE 
PUDDING 



Quarter cup of butter, half cup of sugar, 1 cu? 
of milk, 2 cups Presto flour, 1 egg, a little lemon 
juice. 

Bake for 20 minutes in shallow pan. 

Sauce 

One tablespoon cornstarch, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, half a cup of sugar, 1 egg. Beat well, add 1 
pint boiling water and cook. Add juice and rind 
of 1 lemon or orange. Pour sauce over cake. 
Same sauce may be used for sponge cake. 



94 



JELLY ROLL— 1 



Three eggs, 1 cupful sugar, half tablespoon milk. 
1 cupful Presto. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Beat eggs until light, add sugar gradually, milk, 
then Presto and lastly the melted butter. Grease a 
dripping pan with butter. Cover bottom of pan 
with mixture and spread evenly. Bake 12 minutes 
in a moderate oven. Remove from pan, spread 
with jelly and roll. This must be done quickly or 
the cake will crack while rolling-. 



Presto flour is the thing. 
That makes sweets to suit a king, 
It is cheap both quick and sure, 
And besides it's always pure. 



95 



JELLY ROLL— 2 



Beat 3 eggs together lightly. Add 1 cup pow- 
dered sugar, 1 cup Presto, 1 teaspoon vanilla or 
any other flavoring. Put in jelly tin and make 
from 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from pan and 
spread with jelly. Roll while hot. Take two tea- 
spoons jelly with a little hot water, mix together, 
spread on top and sprinkle with cocoanut. 

For cream roll use half a pint of whipped cream. 
2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 



96 



FILLING FOR CAKE 



Boil one and one-half cups powdered sugar and 
three-eighths of a cup of water until it spins a 
thread. Stir the boiling syrup into 2 whole eggs 
beaten together. Mix with 1 cup of chopped rai- 
sins and 1 cup of chopped blanched almonds 
Flavor with vanilla and spread between the layers. 
Finally make a white frosting and spread over the 
whole cake. 



Try some meat in a dish, 
Whatever kind you may wish. 
Cover with a 'biscuit dough." 
Bake it in the oven slow. 



97 



APPLE FILLING— 1 



Cut 4 large apples, put in earthen dish with 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, half- 
cup sugar, quarter teaspoon cinnamon. Cover and 
bake in oven until dark red and tender. When 
cold, spread between layers. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



APPLE FILLING— 2 



One large apple, cooked and strained. When 
done add grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 egg, and 1 cup 
sugar. Put whipped cream or powdered sugar on 
k)p. 



98 



FIG FILLING 



Half lb. figs, finely chopped, half cup boiling 
water, half cup sugar, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Cook the ingredients in double boiler until thick 
enough to spread. 



99 



FRUIT FILLING 



Four tablespoons finely chopped citron, same of 
finely chopped seeded raisins, half cup chopped 
blanched almonds, quarter lb. chopped figs, whip- 
ped whites 2 eggs, half cup sugar. Whip whites 
with sugar, add fruits and beat well. 



Shortening and yeast, shortening and yeast, 
Now when you bake your troubles will cease. 

Just follow this tip, you'll have none in the least, 
Use Presto Flour, then mv, what a feast. 



100 



CHOCOLATE FILLING 



Quarter lb. sweet butter, 1 cup powdered sugar. 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 4 squares melted choc- 
olate. 

Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs and 
vanilla; then chocolate. 



If Oliver Twist, poor laddie, craved. 

For more o.f'the BEADLE'S stuff, 
Just think how he probably would have behaved, 

1 f he i?ot H-O enough. 



101 



MAPLE FILLING— 1 



One cup maple sugar, 1 egg white and 4 table- 
spoons water. Boil sugar and water together until 
it spins a thread. Beat egg white stiffly and add 
syrup gradually. Beat until stiff and spread on 
cake. 



MAPLE FILLING— 2 



Half cup maple syrup, half cup sugar, 3 tea- 
spoons cold water. 

Let all boil until it strings, (about 5 minutes). 
Beat white of 1 egg just a little, into that pour 
the hot syrup, stirring all the time; then beat till 
cold or it begins to thicken. 



Bake a Presto layer cake, 
It is something that will take; 

Bake it in a layer tin, 
And spread with Maple-ine quite thin. 

102 



COCOANUT FILLING 



One cup sugar, one-third cup water, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, half cup grated cocoanut, 1 egg white. 

Boil sugar and water together and boil till it 
spins a thread. Beat egg white stiff and add 
syrup gradually. Add vanilla and beat until thick. 
Spread on cake and sprinkle over with grated 
cocoanut. 



103 



COCOANUT CUSTARD FILLING 



One cup sugar, 1 and one-half cups milk, one 
and one-half heaping tablespoons corn-starch, 
yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup shredded cocoanut, half 
tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. 

Scald milk in double boiler, add cornstarch 
dissolved in a little cold milk and cocoanut last. 
Stir till smooth. Add sugar, cook 10 minutes. Add 
egg yolks cook 4 minutes take off and add vanilla. 



Cook she thinks the time is slow, 
She quickly makes some Presto dough, 
The biscuits bake so very quick. 
You know the Presto does the trick. 



104 



MARSHMELLOW FILLING 



Three-quarters cup sugar, quarter cup milk, 
quarter lb. marshmallows, 2 tablespoons hot water, 
half teaspoon vanilla. 

Boil sugar and milk 6 minutes. Melt marshmal- 
lows over tea-kettle. Add hot water, vanilla and 
other ingredients. Beat until thick and creamy. 
Spread between layers. 



If you'll like some marshmallow, 
Hurry up and don't be slow; 
Spread it on your Presto layers, 
It will drive away your cares. 



105 



BERRY SHORT CAKE 



Rub 2 tablespoons of lard or butter into 2 cups 
of berry sifted Presto, and add a little milk or 
water to make a smooth dough. Spread half even- 
ly in layer tin, brush melted butter over, add the 
rest of dough. Bake from 10 to 15 minutes. 
When done they will separate. Take berries and 
crush in bowl with sugar spread between layers. 
Put whole berries on top and whipped cream or cus- 
tard. Use layer cake recipe if wanted. 



If you're feeling kind of sad. 

And you wish you really had. 
Crushed with berries and not too Sour. 

Short cake made of Presto Flour. 



106 



QUICK LAYERS 1 



Put 2 eggs in cup fill with cream. Put in mixing 
bowl, add 1 cup sugar, 2 cups Presto, and 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Use any kind of filling. Bake 12 
to 15 minutes. 



QUICK LAYERS 2 



Put 2 eggs in cup, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 
fill cup with milk, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups Presto, 1 
teaspoon vanilla. Bake 12 to 15 minutes. 



QUICK LAYERS 3 



Put in cup, whites of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons melt- 
ed butter. Fill with milk, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
2 cups Presto, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake 12 to 15 
minutes. 

107 



HUCKLEBERRY SHORTCAKE 



Cream quarter cup butter, add half cup sugar, 
1 box crushed and strained huckleberries, half 
cup milk with 2 cups Presto Flour. Must be thick- 
batter. Bake in shallow pan from 15 to 20 minutes. 
Cut in squares. Serve hot with butter. 



Try a 'pot pie' with some chicken, 
Drop some dumplings in to thicken, 
Cook them in some boiling water, 
For ten minutes to a quarter. 



108 



BERRY CAKE 



Work 1 teaspoon butter into 1 cup Presto, 2 
tablespoons granulated sugar. Beat 1 egg, add a 
little milk, and add to the above to make scoft 
dough. Spread thin in shallow pan. Using any 
kind of berries and sprinkle sugar on. If huckle- 
berries are used, cover crust quite thin with Force, 
then put berries on. Bake 20 to 30 minutes. 



109 



PIE CRUST 

Measure half cup of lard or half cup of butter. 
Put in bowl ice-water. Sift 2 and one-half cup? 
Presto Flour, chop the shortening into the Presto 
Add a little ice-water to keep together. Cover and 
put ice-box. Make a few days before wanted. 
This will make two pies or four uncovered ones 
To keep under-crust crispy, take a little piece of 
dough, dip in white of egg and cover bottom be- 
fore putting fruit in. Do same to top crust. 



No. 2 

Half lb. sweet butter, half pint cream and enough 
PrestQ to make a stiff batter. Cream butter until 
very light, add cream, beat hard, and add Presto 
last. Can be used for cooking by adding almond 
and raisins or any kind of fruit. Jumbles may be 
made also. 

110 



PUMPKIN OR SQUASH PIE 



Mix 3 cups thick stewed and sieved pumpkin or 
squash, 2 cups milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 
2 eggs, half teaspoon, cinnamon, pinch clo.ves. 
Line two pie plates with crust. Bake in moderate 
oven. 



Ill 



RHUBARB CUSTARD PIE 



One cupful rhubarb, 1 cupful sugar, 1 table- 
spoon flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon lemon extract, 1 
cupful milk. 

Mix sugar and flour thoroughly. Cut rhubarb in 
small pieces and mix with sugar and flour. Beat 
egg yolks, add milk and lemon extract. Line a 
pie plate with plain pastry and fill with rhubarb 
mixture. P-o.ur custard over and bake until firm 
Cover with a meringue made of 2 egg whites 
beaten stiff to which 2 tablespoons of powdered 
sugar have been added. 



119 



LEMON CREAM PIE 

One and one-half pints milk, 3 tablespoons corn- 
starch, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, grated 
rind and juice of 2 lemons, and yolks of 4 eggs. 
Boil milk, add oo.rn-starch dissolved in a little 
cold milk; when it re-boils, take off, beat in yolks 
butter, lemon-juice, and rind. Pour at once into 
pie plates lines with paste, having high rim. Bake 
in hot oven until paste is cooked, about 20 min- 
utes or it meringue is desired, whip cream of -1 
eggs to dry froth; slo.wly incorporate l'ctip sugar; 
spread over top of pie. When baked, dust with 
powdered sugary return to oven to set fawn color. 



"Try an apple Presto pie, 

It's a flour that'll never die.' 



113 



CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 



One cup milk, pinch of salt. 2 large tablespoons 
cocoa, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 2 tablespoons flour. 2 
eggs, (yolks). 5 tablespoons sugar. 

Put milk, salt and chocolate in upper part of 
double boiler, and when hot and smooth, stir in 
the flour, which has been mixed with enough cold 
milk to be thin enough to pour into the hot milk. 
Cook, stirring constantly until it thickens ; then 
let it cook 8 to 10 minutes. Mix the eggs and 
sugar together and pour the hot mixture over then-v 
stirring well; put back in double hoiler and cook, 
stirriing constantly for 1 minute. Remove and 
when cook add vanilla. 



114 



STRAWBERRY PIE 



Beat 2 eggs light, add half cup sugar. Stir in 
1 box of berries. Put in baked crust and set in 
oven until crushed. Serve with whipped cream 
or put maringue on top if wanted. 



Johnny is going to marry cook, 

And build her a little nest, 
She'll make him the pies for which he sighs, 

And Presto will do the rest. 



115 



PINEAPPLE PIE 



Shred 1 pineapple, add half cup sugar. Let it 
cook for awhile and add 2 teaspoons corn-starch, 
yolk of 1 egg. When cool, put in open pie-crust 
with meringue on top or bake in double crust. 



The eating's tht proof of a pie they said. 

In days that have gone by; 
But today that rule, cook doesn't dread. 

That is, if its Presto pie. 



116 



APPLE PIE 

Three tart apples, halt cup sugar, half lemon 
rind grated. Peel core and slice apples very thin. 
Line pie-plate with pie-crust; put in apples, sugar 
and a little water. Wet the edges, cover with 
crust; rolled out thin and wash with milk. Bake 
in steadv moderate oven 20 minutes. 



117 



APPLE MERANGUE PIE 



Bake under-crust. When put done, apple sauce 
in. Beat 2 whites with a little powdered sugar and 
a little vanilla. Spread on top. Put in oven till 
nice and brown. Peaches to be made the same way 
or sliced with whipped cream on top. 



If you'd really like to know, 
Ho.w to make the Presto dough, 
Buy a book of recipes, 
And you'll find that it will please. 



118 



FILLING FOR PIE AND LAYER 
CAKE 



One pint milk, let scald, add 1 tablespoon corn- 
starch, half cup sugar, pinch salt and add yolks of 
2 eggs. Cook until smooth, then^add 1 teaspoon 
of flavoring. Set aside to cool. Before it con- 
geals stir in half bo.x of whole strawberries, a little 
sugar. Put in baked pie-crust and whip whites of 
eggs with a little sugar and vanilla. Then spread 
on top and set in oven until nice and brown or— 
put between layers and spread beaten whites on 
top or— put in mold and cut in squares for des- 
sert. Use any kind of fruit. 



119 



MINCE WITHOUT UNDER CRUST 



Slice apples or peaches, sprinkle with sugar and 
a little water. Cover with pie-crust. Bake 30 to 
40 minutes. Berries can be used the same way. 



Doctor says go light on pastry, 
Don't you think he's rather hasty? 
He's surely never tried the flour. 
Called the Presto of the hour. 



120 



MINCE MEAT 



Two lb. lean beef boiled tender and chopped, 
half lb. suet, 1 and one-half lb. raisins, seeded and 
cut in half, 2 lbs. cleaned currants, half pint mo- 
lasses, half teaspoonful cloves, 3 pints cider, half 
lb. citron shredded, half ,peck apples, half tea- 
spoonful mace, half teaspoonful allspice, half tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, half lb. light brown sugar. 1 
pint brandy. 

Pepper and salt as much as would be served with 
the meat. This is a New England recipe. Will 
keep all winter and will make fifteen large pies 



121 



BERRY OR FRUIT DUMPLING 



One cup Presto, beat 1 egg light, add little milk 

to make thick batter. Put 1 cup water, 1 cup 

stgar on fire to heat. Add box of any kind of 

berries or fruit. Let boil and drop teaspoonful 
of butter in, cover tight. Boil 15 minutes. Serve 
with hard sauce. 



Ride a cock horse to Banbury Cross, 

To buy little Johnnie a package of Force, 

It made him so fat and made him so strong, 

II you would use it, you'd be like him e'er. long 



122 



FRUIT CANDY 



Put 1 lb. granulated sugar on fire with enough 
hot water to prevent burning. Let boil; drop 
orange, lemon or sliced citron in. Boil a few 
minutes. Put in bowl to cool, then in glass jars. 



Lady Bug, Lady Bug, where are you flying? 

I'm going a shopping she said; 
And Lady Bug tell me pray, what you'll be buying. 

Some Presto to make me some bread. 



123 



PANOCHE 

Two cups light brown sugar, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, quarter teaspoon salt, three-quarter cup 
thin cream. Boil until it forms a soft firm batt 
when a small portion is dropped into half cup 
cold water. Add 1 tablespoon butter, l tea- 
spoon vanilla and two-thirds cup of either 
sliced walnuts or pecans. Beat until thick and 
creamy; then pour into buttered pans. 



124 



SEEL* CONGRESS 




013 974 677 6 



