ECHOES OF 
SOUTHERN 
KITCHENS 



4 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 




COMPILED AND PUBLISHED BY THE 

ROBERT E. LEE CHAPTER 

UNITED DAUGHTERS 

OFTHE CONFEDERACY 

No. 278 



Los ANGELES. CAL. 
OCTOBER. 1916 



-:- OFFICERS -:- 

Miss Exa Kerns, President, 

Mrs. P. H. Brady, 1st V. Pres., 

Mrs. W. C. Tyler, 2nd V. Pres., 

Mrs. Betty S. Hughes, Treas., 

Miss Georgia C. Oldham, Recording Secy., 

Mrs. Arther Farnsworth, Corresponding Secy., 

Mrs. C. A. Semple; Registerar. 



INDEX IN BACK OF BOOK 



Demand the Genuine 

BY FULL NAME 

Nicknames Encourage Substitution 

DRINK 




Delicious and Refreshing 



COIVTVEI.1. 

UNDERTAKERS 
1OS1 S. GRAMO AV3E. 



An elegantly appointed residence establishment 

No charge for use of Funeral Parlors 

MRS. CONNELL, Manager 



EVERYTHING in MUSIC 



Few people realize the completeness 
of Southern California Music Co.'s 
store. Here you will find practically 
every known musical instrument. 
The Sheet Music department is the 
largest on the Coast. Small Instru- 
ments, such as Ukuleles, Violins, Ban- 
jos, Mandolins, etc. Write for cata- 
logs. Easy terms arranged. 



PIANOS 
Chickering 
Kranich & Bach 
ApolloPlayerPianos 
R. S. Howard & Co. 
Hobart M. Cable 
Armstrong, Etc. 
Phonographs 
Edison Diamond 

Disc 

Edison Amberola 
Victrolas 
Grafonolas 




332-33* SOUTH BROADWAY, LOS ANGELES. 

Branches, Pasadena, Riverside, San Diego 



5 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a l,ong Way 

PIES 

PUMPKIN PIE 

"What moistens the lips, what brightens the eye, 
What calls back the past like the rich pumpkin pie?" 
Three large cupfuls or one can of boiled pumpkin, 
one and a half cupfuls of sugar, half cupful of best molasses, 
the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten separately, a pinch 
of salt, one tablespoonful each of ginger and cinnamon, half 
a teaspoonful of allspice, butter size of an egg. Beat all to- 
gether well and bake with rich under crust. 

APPLE PIE 

Pare good tart apples, slice thin, lay in covered pie pan, 
add sugar to taste, a little cinnamon or grated lemon peel, 
bits of butter, and cover with good rich paste and bake for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

BLACKBERRY PIE 

Take one box of berries and cook for about twenty min- 
utes with sugar enough to make rather sweet. Have pan 
with good paste for lower crust. Pour in berries and juice 
and sprinkle with one tablespoon of corn starch over the 
berries and some bits of butter. The starch thickens the 
juice and keeps it from running out. Cover the top with 
paste and bake. 

MRS. B. F. CHURCH. 

BANANA PIE 

Beat yolks of two eggs with one-half cup of sugar until 
light and foamy. Peel and mash two bananas into the mix- 
ture. Add pinch of salt. Add two cups sweet milk. Mix 
well. Turn all into pan lined with rich pie crust, bake in hot 
oven until custard is set. When ready to serve cover with 
meringue of whites of two eggs, beaten stiff. Add three 
teaspoons powdered sugar, spread on top and brown. 

SUSIE E. PONDER. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

Grate one-half ounce Baker's Chocolate, enough hot 
water to dissolve. Beat two egg yolks, add four tablespoons 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



6 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

sugar and one tablespoon corn starch. Put 2 cups milk in 
double boiler, add one-quarter teaspoon salt. When hot add! 
egg and chocolate mixture, stirring constantly until thick. 
Pour into a baked pie crust, cover with meringue made by 
beating two egg whites till sstiff and adding two tablespoons 
sugar and vanilla flavoring. Brown in oven and serve cold. 

PIE CRUST 

One scant cup flour, one-quarter teaspoon salt, mix in 
two tablespoons Crisco. Add three tablespoons cold water. 
Roll out and bake on pan turned upside down, which insures 
a crisp brown bottom. 

MRS. F. C. MILLER. 

PIE CRUST 

One cup of lard, two cups of flour, one-half cup of water 
(ice water best) two teaspoons of baking powder. Roll out 
very thin. Enough for two pies. 

MINNIE G. NEIGHBOURS. 

LEMON PIE 

Four eggs, one cupful of sugar, one and one-half cup- 
fuls of boiling water, two heaping teaspoonfuls of flour, the 
grated rind and juice of two Sunkist lemons. Beat the yolks 
and whites of eggs separately, put yolks, sugar, flour lemon 
juice and rind in a double boiler, mix well, add the boiling 
water, stir until it begins to thicken. Add one-half of the 
well beaten whites of the eggs. Stir, let cook until thick. 
Bake crust, fill with custard, use the rest of the whites of 
eggs for merngue, brown in oven. 

MINNIE G. NEIGHBOURS. 

LEMON PIE 

Juice and rind of one large Sunkist lemon, yolks of three 
eggs, one tablespoon corn starch, not too heaping, one cup 
sugar, one cup boiling water. Mix cornstarch and sugar 
together and put water in last. Meringue of three whites of 
eggs, three tablespoons sugar. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

LEMON PIE FINE 
Rind of two lemons, one and one-half cups of white 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



7 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

sugar, two heaping tablespoons of unsifted flour; one table- 
spoon of corn starch. Stir all well together, then add yolks 
of three beaten eggs. Beat all thoroughly, add juice of two 
lemons, two cups of water, piece of butter size of egg. Put 
all together in double boiler and cook till thick as honey. 
Remove from fire and let cool before putting into pastry, 
bake and when done have ready the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff, with three small tablespoons of sugar. Spread over 
top and brown. This makes a deep large sized pie. 

MRS. E. H. MULLEN. 

MINCE MEAT 

Cover two pounds of lean beef with boiling water and 
simmer until tender ; cool and chop fine ; add two pounds of 
suet, shredded, two pounds of layer raisins, two pounds cur- 
rants, one pound of citron, one-half pound candied lemon 
peel, two pounds Sultana raisins, four pounds of chopped 
apples, two nutmegs grated, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, 
two pounds of light brown sugar, one tablespoonful of cin- 
namon, and one-half tablespoonful of mace. Now, reduce 
the beef stock to one and one-half cups, add to the mince 
meat, cook slowly two hours and pack away in jars ; dilute, 
when used with brandy, cider or fruit juices. Or, omit the 
beef stock, add the juice and rind of two lemons and two 
oranges; mix well; pack in stone jar and pour over it one 
quart of sherry and one quart of brandy. Cover and set in 
a cool place. 

TRANSPARENT CUSTARD PIE 

Four eggs, one cup of milk, three cups of sugar, two 
spoonfuls of butter, a few bread crumbs or crackers, nut- 
meg or lemon peel. 

CUSTARD PIE WITHOUT MILK 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one teaspoon of melted but- 
ter, one cup of water, one tablespoon of flour. Beat all to- 
gether and flavor to taste. Bake in quick oven. 

MRS. QUARRIER. 

SWEET POTATO PIE 

One cup of sweet potato boiled and mashed very fine 
or put through colander, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



8 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

sugar, one tablespoon butter, two eggs, one-third teaspoon 
extract lemon. Beat eggs, add sugar, butter, potato and 
milk and extract lemon, place on stove and stir until it be- 
gins to thicken, then pour in a pie plate that is lined with 
good pastry. Bake until a light brown. This makes one 
large pie. 

JELLY PIE 

Three eggs, white and yolks beaten separately ; three- 
fourths cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one glass of 
jelly. This makes two small pies. 

MRS. C. T. HARPER. 

WHITE GRAPE PIE 

One large cup of white grapes, seeded ; one cup sugar ; 
one egg ; two rounded tablespoons butter. Mix this together 
and bake in two crusts. Delicious. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

KARO SYRUP PIE 

Cup sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, two table- 
spoons flour, cup milk, cup Karo cyrup, two eggs, beaten 
yolks. Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 



Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

PUDDINGS 

DELMONICO PUDDING 

Into a double boiler put two cups of milk and let come 
to the scalding point. Separate two eggs. Into the yolks 
put one-half cup of sugar gradually and stir thoroughly into 
hot milk ; one package or two tablespoons of gelatine, soft- 
ened in one-half cup of cold milk. Pour part of hot milk 
over this imxture, and then pour into the rest of the hot 
milk. When finished add gelatine, let cool, then add beaten 
whites of eggs and vanilla and one cup of whipped cream. 

MRS. W. E. SPROUSE. 

STEAMED NUT PUDDING 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups flour, one-half 
cup sugar, three teaspoons baking powder, two eggs, one- 
half cup cold water, one-half cup raisins, one-half cup nuts 
floured. Bake one-half hour or steam one hour. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

HARD SAUCE 

One-third cup butter, one-third teaspoon flavoring, one 
cup powdered sugar. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, 
and flavor. Form in loaf, let stand until ready to serve, and 
slice. 

MRS. SEMPLE. 

APPLE PUDDING 

Fill buttered baking dish with sliced apples, pour over 
this batter : One tablespoon butter, one-half cup sugar, one 
egg, one-half cup sweet milk, one cup sifted flour, one tea- 
spoon baking powder. Bake in moderate oven till brown. 

SAUCE 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup milk, butter size 
walnut. Cook until thick. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Peel and slice lengthwise, then cut in two, dip in well 
beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, fry in bacon grease and 
butter. Sliced pineapple is prepared in the same way. 

Golden Crown Butter. Made for Particular People 



10 

Viclet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

These are very delicious breakfast dishes and common in 
the South. 

MRS. W. A. HORXE. 

DANDY BREAD PUDDING 

Two and one-half cups bread crumbs, two-thirds cup 
raisins, two-thirds cup English walnuts, one apple, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, clove cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg 
to taste, three eggs, one cup of milk, sugar to taste. Mix 
and bake in slow oven. 

SAUCE 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon of flour, one-half cup 
butter, one-half pint water. Cook sugar, flour and butter 
together before putting in water. 

MRS. F. O. REED. 

CARROT PUDDING 

One cup grated Irish potatoes (raw), one cup grated 
carrots (raw), one cup sugar, one cup flour, one and one- 
half cups seeded raisins (floured), one nutmeg, grated, one- 
quarter teaspoon each of cinnamon and cloves, one-half 
teaspoon soda added to potatoes. Mix well. Put in one- 
pound baking powder tins and steam in tight boiler for three 
hours. Do not fill tins within two inches of top. Put tops 
on. Serve with hard sauce. 

CONFEDERATE PUDDING 

Rub thoroughly into four teacupfuls of sifted flour 
one teacup of suet, shredded and chopped fine, one teacupful 
of raisins seeded and chopped, the same quantity of currants 
washed and dried the clay previous, one teaspoon of cinna- 
mon, stir into this one teacupful of molasses and the same 
quantity of milk. Pour into a pudding mould and boil two 
hours. To be eaten hot with sauce. 

.MRS. W. A. HORXE. 

REBEL PUDDING 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoon of cloves, and of cinnamon, two 
teaspoons, of allspice, small teaspoon of soda dissolved in 
vinegar, enough flour to make a stiff batter. Boil four hours. 
Serve hot with sauce. 

MRS. W. A. HORXE. 



11 

"Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

PUDDING SAUCE 

Two heaping cups of brown sugar, let boil twenty min- 
utes, then add half a cup of butter which has had two tea- 
spoons of flour rubbed into it smoothly ; let boil till quite 
thick, then add a wine glass of good brandy and one well 
beaten egg. Do not let boil after adding egg or it will cur- 
dle. Flavor to suit. 

DATE PUDDING 

One cup chopped nuts, three-fourths cup chopped dates 
or cut with scissors, one heaping tablespoon flour, three 
tablespoons sugar, one-half teaspoon of baking powder, two 
well beaten eggs. Fill six ramakins scantily, put them in 
pan of hot water. Cook half hour in oven. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

DATE PUDDING 

One pound dates (mashed and stoned), one cup sugar, 
one cup water ; cook a few minutes ; add one cup walnuts or 
any nuts, lemon juice to taste. Serve with whipped cream. 

EX A KERNS. 

DIXIE PUDDING 

One cup of preserves, one cup of butter, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of flour, five eggs. Cream the butter and 
sugar together, add the flour and eggs well beaten ; lastly the 
preserves. Bake in a quick oven. Serve hot with sauce. 

MRS. W. A. HORNE. 

FRENCH FROZEN PUDDING 

Put over the fire one cup white sugar, one pint boiling 
water, stir until dissolved, then boil five minutes. Separate 
six eggs. Beat the yolks until light and creamy, pour the 
boiling syrup over then, beating until cold, then add one 
pint cream and one teaspoonful vanilla. Start to freeze and 
when half frozen, add two dozen brandied cherries cut into 
small pieces. Very fine. 

MRS. JOHN PARK DOUGALL, 

PLUM PUDDING 

One cup beef suet, chopped very fine and free of skin ; 
two cups bread crumbs, dry and sifted until like corn meal ; 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



12 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

one cup sugar; one cup seeded raisins; one cup currants, 
washed and dried ; one cup chopped blanched almonds ; one- 
half cup of citron, sliced very thin ; four well beaten eggs ; 
one teaspoon of salt ; one teaspoon of cloves ; two teaspoons 
of cinnamon ; half grated nutmeg. Dissolve a level teaspoon 
of soda in a tablespoon of warm water ; flour the fruit thor- 
oughly from a pint of flour, then mix as follows : Mix eggs 
and sugar, then into one cup of milk put spices and salt, 
mix well and then stir in fruit, nuts, bread crumbs and suet, 
when well mixed, put in dissolved soda; then stir in the 
remainder of the pint of sifted flour, which will make the 
other ingredients stick together. Steam for four hours, 
preferably in tightly covered bucket. Serve with any well 
flavored sauce. 

MRS. FRANKLIN L. MORGAN. 

LEMON FOAM PUDDING 

Two cups of boiling water, one cup of sugar, two table- 
spoons cornstarch, juice of one lemon, salt. When this has 
boiled 15 minutes, pour over the well beaten whites of three 
eggs. Beat well and let cool. Serve with custard sauce. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

SUET PUDDING 

Three cups of flour, one cup of molasses, one cup of beef 
suet, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of currants, one cup of 
raisins, one-half teaspoonfuls of soda, spice, nutmeg, cloves 
and cinnamon. Beat well together, steam two hours, eat 
with wine sauce. 

MRS. E. A. LOY. 

FRENCH PAIN PERDU (LOST BREAD) 
So called because made of stale bread, which would be a loss 
Six thick slices of stale bread, soaked in sugared milk, 
flavored with vanilla ; drain and dip in beaten egg, fry in hot 
lard, browning on both sides ; sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and serve hot. 

MRS. FRANKLIN L. MORGAN. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING 

Cut sweet potatoes in thin slices, put layer of potatoes 
in pan, salt, pepper and butter, then layer of apples sliced 
thin. Add potatoes and apples alternately. Make syrup of 
sugar and water, cover potatoes and apples, put in oven. 
Bake about fifty minutes. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



INSIST ON 




UNIFORMLY GOOD 
ORANGES and LEMONS 

Genuine come in tissue wrappers marked "Sunkisf 
Watch for the wrapper 






NewMethod Gas Ranges 
On Easy Credit Terms 

Everywoman will find cook- 
ing a more perfect pleasure 
if she would use one of 
these fine ranges. We sell 
them on easy terms that 
every home may have one. 

Eastern Outfitting Co. 

62O-26 So. Main Street 




Inotctfedae 

<=_^ 



We have demonstrated to those 
in need of our services our com- 
plete knowledge of everything that 
appertains to a funeral. If you 
wish to avai yourself of the ser 
vices of an undertaker whose repu- 
tation insures square dealing, you 
should employ us. 

W. A. BROWN 

FUNERAL DIRECTOR 

1335 South Flower St. 
Los Angeles, Cal. 

Main 2023 Home 23940 



14 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

"Now good digestion wait on appetite and health on both.' 

Shakespeare. 



CAKE 



ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

Whites of nine eggs, one and one-half cups sugar 
(sifted), one cup flour, one-half teaspoon cream of tartar, 
pinch of salt added to eggs before beating. After sifting 
flour four or five times, measure and set aside one cup ; then 
measure one and one-quarter cup sugar ; beat whites of 
eggs about half, add cream tartar and beat till very, very 
stiff, stir in sugar, then flour very lightly. Bake in moderate 
oven, 35 to 50 minutes. 

MRS. P. H. BRADY. 

LAYER ANGEL CAKE 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half goblets of 
sugar, one goblet flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one te'aspoon 
vanilla, one pinch baking powder. Bake in two layer pans. 

Filling One-half cup sour cream, one cup powdered 
sugar, one cup chopped nuts', almonds, one teaspoon vanilla. 

MRS. KATE N. PROVINES. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

Sugar one cup, flour two cups, apple sauce one and one- 
half cups, one-half cup of butter or Crisco, chocolate three 
tablespoons, cinnamon one teaspoon, cloves one-half tea- 
spoon, soda one teaspoon in one-half cup sour milk, raisins 
two cups, nuts one cup, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
Mix dry ingredients. Then wet all together. 

MRS. G. B. QUARRIER. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, cream together; 
one cup unsweetened apple sauce; one teaspoon soda; one 
teaspoon cinnamon ; one-half teaspoon ground cloves ; one 
teaspoon salt ; one and three-fourths cups flour ; one cup 
seeded raisins; one-half cup nuts. Dissolve your soda in 
one tablespoon of boiling water, and stir in cup apple sauce. 
Mix all ingredients thoroughly. Then add one well beaten 
egg. Bakeslowly one hour. 

ELIZABETH M. GOULD. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



15 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

BLACKBERRY CAKE 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four cups of flour, 
whites and yolks of four eggs beaten separately, two cups 
of blackberry jam, two teaspoons of cinnamon, same of nut- 
meg, one of allspice, one cup of buttermilk with teaspoons 
soda dissolved in it. Bake in layers and put caramel filling 
between them. 

Filling: Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one of 
sweet milk, cook until thick enough to string from spoon. 

MRS. B. J. BARNHART. 

BLACKBERRY CAKE 

Three eggs, beaten separately ; one cup brown sugar, 
three-fourths cup butter, two cups flour, one cup jam, three 
tablespoons sour cream, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg. Put soda and cream 
in last. Bake in layers. Boiled icing. 

MRS. ORLANDO HALLIBURTON. 

CUP CAKES 

Full cup flour, scant cup sugar, two teaspoons baking 
powder, pinch salt. Break egg in cup, pour over it butter 
size of walnut melted. Fill cup with milk. Mix well. 

MRS. GILBERT WOODILL. 

CREAM CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one-half cups 
flour, one cup cream, four eggs, one teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

SPONGE ROLL 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one and one-third cups flour, 
three tablespoons water. Beat eggs well before adding 
flour. Spread jelly and roll while hot. 

COFFEE CAKE 

Sift together one cup flour, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half saltspoon salt, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, three tea- 
spoons level baking powder. Mix this into a soft dough by 
adding the following, well mixed: One egg well beaten, 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



16 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

four tablespoons melted butter, one-half cup sweet milk. 
Spread in a shallow bake pan, sprinkle thickly with cinna- 
mon and sugar. Let rise five minutes. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

Two cups pulverized sugar, one-half cup butter, two 
eggs, one-half cup hot coffee, one-half cup hot water, one- 
half cup grated chocolate, one teaspoon soda in coffee, two 
and one-half cups flour. 

Filling: Two cups brown sugar, one-third cup butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk (boiled thick), add one cup hickory 
nuts chopped fine. 

MRS. ORLANDO SHALLIBURTON. 

CARAMEL CAKE 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, four cups flour, 
three-fourths cup sweet milk, whites of ten eggs. Bake in 
five layers. Color two with some kind of fruit coloring, 
pink or green. 

Filling for same : Three cups brown sugar, one cup 
sweet cream, two tablespoons butter. Cook until candied. 
When cool flavor with vanilla and cream. Put cake together 
while hot. 

MISS ANNA ATKINSON. 

DATE CAKE 

Four eggs beaten separately, one cup sugar, one cup 
flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon baking soda, 
one-half teaspoon baking powder, one pound dates, one-half 
pound nuts, vanilla. Bake in slow oven for one hour. 

EXA KERNS. 

DROPPED CAKES 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup of milk, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of currants and raisins mixed, two cups of 
flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, one-half cup of nuts, 
two eggs and spices to suit, one tablespoon of vanilla. It 
makes thirty or forty little cakes and is so easy to make. 
Work sugar and butter together, break in eggs one at a 
time. Drop on greased pan far apart. 

MRS. E. A. LOY. 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



17 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

OLD-TIME POUND CAKE 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, three-fourths pound 
butter, one dozen eggs. Cream sugar and butter very light. 
Beat eggs separately. Add yolks to sugar and butter, beat, 
add flour and beat until all is very light, then add whites. 

MISS ANNA ATKINSON. 
ECONOMICAL SPONGE CAKE 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, pinch of salt, one cup of 
flour, grated rind of one-half lemon, one-half cup of hot 
water, one tablespoon of melted butter, one and one-third 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
with half the sugar, then add the water and the remaining 
sugar, lemon rind, flour sifted with baking powder ; lastly 
fold in whites beaten stiff, bake twenty-five minutes in a 
buttered and floured shallow pan. 

EMERGENCY CAKE 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup milk, one egg, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one cup flour, three level tea- 
spoonsful baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful cinnamon. After batter is put in pan, sift a lit- 
tle sugar and cinnamon on top. MRS. E. M. SEMPLE. 
SOUTHERN FRUIT CAKE 

Cream one pound butter, one pint sugar, one pint flour, 
six eggs, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one- 
half pound citron, ten cents worth dates, ten cents worth 
dry figs, one pound of English walnuts, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon cloves, two nut- 
megs. Put all of spices in a wine glass of whiskey. One- 
half teaspoon soda in one tablespoon vinegar. Mix thor- 
oughly and bake in slow oven three thours. 

MRS. E. H. MULLEN. 
BURNT SUGAR CAKE 

One-half cup butter and one and one-half cups of sugar 
creamed, add yolks of two eggs, one cup of water, add 
gradually two cups of flour. Beat five minutes. Add two 
tablespoons of caramel made as follows: One-half cup 
sugar burned in pan till smokes, take off and throw one-half 
cup boiling water into burned sugar, place on fire and boil 
fast, until like syrup. Enough for three cakes. 

One tablespoon of vanilla, another one-half cup of flour 
into which two teaspoons of baking powder has been stirred. 
Beat well, then add the whites of two well-beaten eggs, 
tfake moderately. GEORGIE G. OLDHAM. 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



18 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

One teaspoon powdered mace, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one grated nutmeg, one-half wineglass of rosewater, one 
pound choice white citron, sliced thin ; one pound blanched 
almonds, sliced thin ; one grated cocoanut, one-fourth pound 
candied orange peel, sliced fine ; one pound powdered white 
sugar, one-half pound butter, eight eggs, beaten separately ; 
dredge the fruit in flour, and warm it, having it ready for 
use.. 

Mixing: Cream, butter and sugar, and add yolks; beat 
thoroughly after each mixture. Next add one-fourth of the 
flour, sifted several times to make it light. Then add one- 
half of the whites, another quarter of the flour, the rest of 
the whites, one-fourth of flour. Now stir in rosewater and 
spices, beat two minutes. Add the rest of the flour, then 
the fruit; cocoanut last. Stir just enough to mix. Bake 
thre hours in a slow oven and cover wih icing. 

MRS. ALBERTA RANSONE. 

FRUIT CAKE 

A receipt used in Morgan family for over sixty years, 
always given to wife of oldest son and never, to the best 
of my knowledge, published before. 

One and one-quarter pounds of flour, one and one- 
quarter pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, one dozen 
eggs, two pounds of prunes, two pounds of currants, two 
pounds of raisins, one pound of citron, one pound of 
almonds, one pound of pecans, one wineglass of sherry, one 
wineglass of whiskey, one winglass of rosewater, one table- 
spoon of grated nutmeg, one tablespoon of ground allspice, 
one tablespoon of ground cloves, one tablespoon of ground 
cinnamon. 

The flour you dredge your fruit with is extra. Mix 
spices with flour. 

The original receipt says, "Bake in a very moderate 
oven five hours, if baked in one pan, if in two, four hours," 
but I steam this cake for three or four hours (according 
to whether in one or two pans), then dry out in a very 
moderate oven for one hour ; this makes am ore moist cake 
and overcomes danger of burning. 

MRS. FRANKLIN L. MORGAN. 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



19 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 



WILSON FRUIT CAKE 

One pound butter, one pound of sugar (brown), one 
pound flour browned and sifted, twelve eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, five pounds seeded raisins, one pound shredded 
citron, one glass grape or currant jelly, one pound crystal- 
ized sliced pineapple, one pound crystalized cherries cut up, 
one pound blanched almonds, shredded; one pound shelled 
pecans, chopped ; two teaspoons powderd cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoon powdered nutmeg, one-half allspice, one tea- 
spoon scant powdered cloves, one glass sherry or coffee as 
preferred. 

Cream, butter and sugar add egg yolks well beaten, 
add spices and liquids ; next alternate flour and egg whites, 
reserving part of flour to thoroughly mix in fruit ; add fruit 
last, part at a time. Bake or steam four to six hours if 
steamed in very slow oven, about one hour will make two 
big cakes. 

MRS. W. C. TYLER. 



VELVET WHITE CAKE 

One-half cupful butter, one cupful fine granulated sugar, 
one-half cupful of milk, two cupfuls flour (sifted), three 
level tablespoons baking powder, white five eggs, one-quar- 
ter teaspoonful cream of tartar, one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cream the butter, slowly add sugar beating in thor- 
oughly. Add a little flour to the butter and sugar, 
then add a little milk, alternating the flour and milk until 
all is in. Have the baking powder in the last of the flour. 
Beat whites well, add cream of tartar to them, and beat to 
stiff froth. Flavor mixture with vanilla and last fold in 
whites. To make the cake fine grained do all beating before 
whites are in. Bake in loaf or layers. 

MRS. ALBERTA RANSONE. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



20 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

PRIZE WHITE CAKE 

Whites of five eggs, two tablespoons of Violet Brand 
Shortening, three light cups flour (sifted), two tablespoons 
Royal baking powder, pinch salt, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one cup water, one teaspoon flavoring. Cream Short- 
ening and sugar, add salt and flavoring, alternate with flour 
(which has been sifted with baking powder) and water. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add lastly. Bake either 
in loaf or layers. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE 

Beat together one cup of sugar, one cup of butter. 
When creamy add three cups of sifted flour, two teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder sifted with the flour and one cup of 
water ; into this mix the whites of six eggs, well beaten, stir- 
ring lightly ; flavor with vanilla and bake in three cake pans 
well greased with lard. 

Filling: For caramel filling, one cup of brown sugar, 
one-half cup cream and two teaspoonsful of butter, cook 
until thick ; take from the fire, flavor with vanilla and stir 
until cool ; then spread between layers. 

Fruit filling: Boil one cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of 
water until the sugar threads when dropped from a spoon, 
then pour briskly on the well beaten white of an egg until 
smooth ; then add one-half cup nuts, one-half cup chopped 
raisins with one-fourth dozen dried figs cut in thin strips ; 
when all of these ingredients are well mixed, spread between 
the layrs of cake. 

MRS. S. R. THORPE. 

WHITE LOAF CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, whites of four eggs, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, one 
teaspoon baking powder, one-half teaspoon vanilla, one- 
quarter teaspoon salt. 

BETTIE E. SMITH HUGHES. 

SOUR MILK CAKE NO EGG 

One scant cup butter, one cup sugar, two cups flour, 
one cup sour milk, pinch salt, one level teaspoon soda. 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



21 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon 
nutmeg, one cup raisins, one cup walnuts. Measure flour 
after sifting three times. Put milk and soda in last. 

MRS. E. M. SEMPLE. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE 

One cup sour cream, one cup sugar, one egg, one and 
one-half cup flour, pinch of soda, teaspoon vanilla, two round 
spoons chocolate or cocoa. Double for large cake. 

MRS. E. L. DuBOSE. 

SOUR MILK CAKE 

Beat one cup sugar and four tablespoons butter to a 
cream, add three-quarters cup sour milk or cream, two cups 
sifted flour, one-half teaspoon soda. Stir well, then add 
beaten whites of three eggs or two whole eggs. Raisins 
and spices to suit taste. Bake in layers. 

MRS. JOHN PARK DOUGALL. 

SPICE CAKE 

Yolks of seven eggs, two cups brown sugar, one cup 
molasses, one cup butter, five cups flour, one cup sour cream, 
one teaspoon soda. Spice to taste. 

FINE SPICE CAKE 

One egg, two-thirds cup molasses, two-thirds cup sugar, 
one-half cup melted butter, one cup milk, three cups flour, 
one heaping teaspoon soda, one even teaspoon cream tartar, 
one tablespoon mixed spices, one tablespoon vinegar. Mix 
in order given and use plain whitefrosting. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

RIBBON CAKE 

Cream together one cup butter, two and one-half cups 
sugar, add one cup sweet milk, four well-beaten eggs, four 
cups flour, four teaspoons baking powder. Beat thoroughly, 
then take out one-third and with it mix one tablespoon mo- 
lasses, one teaspoon all kinds of spices, one cup English 
currants, one cup raisins, one cup citron cut fine. Bake this 
in one cake. The white in two. When done place together, 
with icing the dark in center and press together. 

MRS. P. H. BRADY. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



22 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

STRAWBERRY CAKE 

One cup sugar creamed with the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and one-half cup of butter. Sift together cup and half 
of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder and pinch of 
salt. Stir into sugar a little at a time, mixing in one-half 
cup of water. Then stir beaten whites of eggs, vanilla. 
Bake in quick oven. 

Icing: One box strawberries mashed together with 
one cup of granulated sugar, stir in unbeaten white of one 
egg and beat with egg beater for half hour. When light and 
puffy spread on cake. This is nice baked either as three 
layer or flat cake. 

HELENA THORPE. 

ROSE LEAF CAKES 

One cup of rose petals (red roses are best, but any 
kind may be used if they are very fragrant), three cups of 
flour, one cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs, one 
cup of milk, two teaspoons baking powder, one-half tea- 
spoon salt. Cream butter, beat eggs and sugar together, 
very light, add milk and flour, then add the butter. Lastly 
fold in the rose petals. Baking powder should be sifted in 
with flour. Bake in gem pans in a moderate oven. 

MARION CORNWALL. 

PLAIN CAKE 

One-half of a pound cold butter, creamed, two cups 
sugar, four eggs, beaten white and yolks separately, but 
mixed before added to butter and sugar, three cups of flour, 
sifted three times, two teaspoons of baking powder, one cup 
of milk. Bake in stem pan for one hour. This recipe is a 
very good one to use for small cakes baked in muffin rings 
or as a loaf cake, but is too rich for a layer cake. 

MRS. FRANKLIN L. MORGAN. 

PECAN CAKE 

One pound sifted flour, one pound sugar, one-half cup 
butter, six eggs, two pounds raisins, one quart chopped 
pecan nuts, one large nutmeg, one teaspoon baking powder, 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



23 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

one large glass whiskey. Mix as fruit cake, bake in moder- 
ate over three hours. 

MRS. AGNES HALLIBURTON. 



One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one cup 
sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, two and one-half 
teaspoonsful baking powder, one teaspoonful vanilla. Mix 
in the order given, adding the beaten whites last. 

MRS. G. W. CASE. 

PRUNE CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups flour, four tablespoons of sour milk, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, one-half teaspoon cloves and nutmeg, three eggs 
(whites of two for frosting), one cup cooked prunes, one 
cup of chopped nuts, last one teaspoon of soda dissolved 
in one teaspoon of water. 

MRS. E. H. MULLEN. 

ORANGE SPONGE CAKE 

Four eggs beaten separately, add to whites one-half 
cup of sugar, add to yolks one-half cup of sugar, grated rind 
of one orange, juice of one-half Sunkist orange, one cup of 
flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat eggs thor- 
oughly. Sift sugar four or five times, sift flour four or five 
times. 

CARROLL LOY STEWART. 

NUT CAKE 

One cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, three cups 
flour, two cups currants, four eggs, two teaspoons baking 
powder, citron to taste, nuts to taste, almonds especially 
good, one-half teaspoon salt. Beat eggs, add sugar. Rub 
shortening and flour, then add currants and nuts. Sift bak- 
ing powder in flour. Bake in slow oven. 

E. PAGE KERNS. 

MAHOGANY CAKE 

Three eggs beaten together, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two cups 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



24 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

flour, one teaspoon soda, two squares sweet chocolate, boil 
in one-half of the milk until thick, then cool. Flavor with 
vanilla. Bake in two layers, putting your favorite frosting 
between. 

MRS. C. D. SWAIN. 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, three-fourths 
cup hot water, baking powder, two small teaspoons. Meas- 
ure flour before sifting. Sift flour and baking powder three 
times. Beat yellows till light, add sugar and grated rind 
and juice of one small Sunkist lemon, then the well beaten 
whites, then the flour and last the hot water. Bake in a 
moderate oven about 45 minutes. 

MRS. M. E. CHRISTIAN. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

Cream together one cup of butter and two of sugar, 
add to this three and one-half cups of flour well sifted, one 
cup of milk, two level teaspoonsful of baking powder, sifted 
with the flour, a teaspoonful of pure rosewater and the 
stiffly beaten whites of six eggs. Beat the whole vigorously. 
Bake in jelly tins and for filling use the following ingre- 
dients : To three cups of very fine sugar add a cup of boil- 
ing water, stir into this one cup of chopped and seeded 
raisins, one cup of finely chopped pecan nuts (walnuts will 
answer), six figs chopped fine and beat in the whites of four 
eggs that have been whipped stiff. 

MRS. W. A. HORNE. 

HANDY CAKE 

One-fifth cup melted butter, add two unbeaten eggs, fill 
the cup with milk. Second part: One cup unsifted flour 
(heaping), one teaspoon baking powder, one cup sugar, 
flavoring. Beat well. Bake in two small layers, or add one 
cup seeded raisins and bake in muffin rings. 

GOLDEN LOAF CAKE 

Yolks of eight eggs, one cup granulated sugar, 
scant one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



Of Los Angeles, California 



N. W. Cor. Fifth and Spring Sts. 
INTEREST PAID ON TIME ACCOUNTS 



GARMENTS FOR 

WOMEN, MISSES AND CHILDREN 
AT POPULAR PRICES 




445 South Broadway 



F2500 Main 1757 

Hair Dressing, Manicuring, Face and Scalp Massage 

Switches, Transformations, Wigs and Toupees 

Hair Ornaments for All Occasions 

WEAVER -JACKSON COMPANY 

HAIR MERCHANTS 
429 South Broadway, Los Angeles 
Leather Goods Cosmetics 

Adrien Loeb. I. G. Fleishman. Adolph Fleishman. 

LOEB, FLEISHMAN & CO. 

Wholesale Fruits and Produce 

210-212-214 CENTRAL AVENUE 

TELEPHONES 
Sunset Broadway 1251 
Home 10162 LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



26 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Cream Shortening and sugar thoroughly, beat yolks to a 
stiff froth and mix well. Put in milk then flour and stir 
hard. Bake in tube pan in moderate oven. 



SOUP 



POTATO SOUP 



Three small potatoes, one pint milk, two tablespoons 
chopped onions, one teaspoonful salt, one sprinkle pepper, 
two tablespoons flour, two tablespoons butter. Prepare 
potatoes and cook without salt until soft. Drain off water 
and mash. Melt butter, add onion and flour and one cup 
of milk. Stir over heat until thickened; add this slowly. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

One-half can of tomatoes, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
one-quarter teaspoon of soda, one quart of milk, one slice 
of onion, four tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper, one-third cup of 
butter. Scald milk with onion, remove onion and thicken 
milk with flour diluted with cold water. Cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly at first. Cook tomatoes with sugar 
fifteen minutes, add soda and run through a sieve. Com- 
bine mixture and strain into tureen over butter, salt and 
pepper. 

COLD CONSOMME 

Make one quart of any unflavored gelatine adding 
enough beef extract to the hot water used in the gelatine 
to flavor it nicely. Let harden. 

CARROLL LOY STEWART. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Corn beef shank with water and boil two hours, adding 
water whenever necessary to keep meet covered. Take 
out meat and skim the soup. Add one Irish potato, one 
sweet pepper, one turnip, two small onions, one half cab- 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



27 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

bage, two or three pieces of celery, a little parsley, all 
chopped in small pieces ; three small tomatoes, sliced, one 
cup butter beans, one cup corn, one-third cup rice. Cook 
slowly one hour. Season to taste and if it gets too thick 
add water. 

EMMA A. LOY. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Mince one large slice of pork and fry in iron pot; add 
one pint of potatoes sliced very thin, and one large onion 
chopped fine ; add sufficient water to cover potatoes and 
boil until tender ; then add content of half pound can of 
minced clams and four or five rolled crackers. Season to 
taste ; stirr carefully, cook for two minutes, then add one 
pint of milk and serve hot. 

CARROLL LOY STEWART. 

CHICKEN GUMBO 

(Georgia Style) 

Boil a chicken in two quarts of water in a tightly cov- 
ered vessel until very tender, having put in a bay leaf, a lit- 
tle thyme and several pepper corns. Just before it is done 
sprinkle in a teaspoon salt. Remove the chicken from the 
stock and cut in small pieces. Into the stock put one-half 
cup carrots, cubed, one-four cup minced onion, one cup 
okra cut in small rings, one large or two small chili peppers, 
chopped, and two slices of bacon cut in small pieces, one 
cup of Irish potatoes cubed, and four tomatoes cut in small 
pieces. When done add the chicken and pour into a hot 
soup tureen. Wash thoroughly one cup rice, drain and 
sprinkle slowly into three quarts of boiling salted water. 
Boil twenty minutes, drain and put in hot platter. 

To serve place a heaping spoon of rice in soup plate 
and pour around a ladle of hot gumbo. If any of this 
should be left, thicken with a few bread crumbs and stuffed 
sweet peppers ; dot with a little butter and bake. 

MRS. P. H. BRADY. 

OKRA GUMBO 

Wipe the okra and cut it in thin round slices. Cut a 
chicken, put it to fry ; when it begins to brown put in a 
chopped onion, salt and pepper, then add the okra. cover 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



28 

Vicltt Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

the pot and let it continue to cook slowly, stirring often 
and keeping the pot covered. As soon as the okra is soft, 
pour three quarts of boiling water and let it cook slowly 
for one hour, this will require one pint of okra after it is 
cut. 

MRS. S. R. THORPE. 
GUMBO FILE 
(Southern Style) 

Put a chicken to fry after cutting it up. When it is 
beginning to brown, put one chopped onion, salt, pepper 
and a heaping spoonful of flour. Let that fry about five 
minutes longer, stirring it to keep it from burning, then 
pour three quarts of water, boiling. Let cook about an hour 
and a half, or if the chicken is old, let it cook till it is ten- 
der. When ready to serve add the fillet little at the time 
till it begins to thicken. Let it come to a boil and serve. 
This is always eaten with rice cooked by following recipe: 
one cup of rice, one cup of water, one-four teaspoonful of 
salt. Wash the rice in two or three waters, pick out any 
grains not white, add water and salt and put to cook. Let 
it boil hard at first, but as soon as the water begins to dry 
out, turn the fire very low and place an iron cover between 
the saucepan and the fire, and let it dry out for half an hour. 
Never stir the rice, but watch it carefully so it will not burn 
after the water has boiled out. 

MRS. S. R. THORPE. 
FRUIT COCKTAIL 

One pound of muscat grapes, two grape fruit, one small 
can grated pine apple, one orange, one tablespoonful of 
brandy. Seed and skin the grapes, cutting half in two. Cut 
orange and grape fruit into small bits, removing seeds and 
skin ; put in pineapple and brandy and enough sugar to 
sweeten it. Serve in sherbet cups as an appetizer. 

CARROLL LOY STEWART. 



FISH 



''How oft we hear of him the hungry sinner, 
W r ho spends his days in angling for a dinner." 

BOILED FISH 

Dredge fish lightly with flour, wrap and secure firmly in 
a cloth, put in a kettle and cook in slightly salted boiling 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



Ralph's Grocery Company 

SELLS FOR LESS 
We Appreciate Delivery Orders of 50 cents and up 

FOUR STORES 

317 and 321 South Spring Street, 631-3-5 South Spring Street 
Vermont Avenue at 35th Place and Pico Street at Normandie Ave. 

West 6500 Send for Catalog Home 60791 



LESLIE SALT 



Supplies the tastiness which coaxes 
the best flavor out of your cooking 



"Every Good Grocer Sells It" 



German 
& Savings 



Spring at Seventh St Los Anodes 

-TivS* 



Personal Service to Each Patron 

Is the standard by which every transaction and policy of this 

Bank is measured. 

Prompt, accurate, courteous, complete these words form our 

definition of the banking efficiency of which we invite you to take 

advantage. 

Your patronage in any of our Departments will be welcomed and 

appreciated. 



30 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

water. A medium sized fish will boil in about half an hour, 
and when it is sufficiently cooked the flesh will flake and 
separate. As soon as done take from kettle, remove the 
cloth, drain well, lay in a folded napkin on hot platter, gar- 
nish with lemon points and sprigs of parsley, and serve with 
drawn butter or fish sauce. 

BAKED FISH 

Wash and dry fish, salt and pepper. Rub well with but- 
ter then with flour, put into a pan with a little hot water, 
bake in moderately hot oven, baste frequently, adding a lit- 
tle hot water if necessary. Serve on dish garnished with 
parsley. Make sauce for fish with one pint of milk, two 
hard boiled eggs, one tablespoon butter. Take yolk of egg, 
mash fine, add flour enough to thicken milk. Season well 
with mustard, salt, pepper (black and red), stir with milk 
and cook to consistency of gravy. Chop white of eggs and 
add to sauce. Serve in gravy bowl. This is fine. 

To fry perch, sprats, or any small fish Sprinkle them 
with salt and dredge on both sides with flour. Fry in hot 
lard and serve hot. 

CREAMED SALMON 

One pound of salmon, one pint of cream, two large 
tablespoons of butter, two and one-half level tablespoons of 
flour, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper. 
Heat salmon and cream in sauce pan, in another the butter 
and flour; stir until melted and pour into hot cream and 
salmon, stir until it thickens ; then pour into a baking dish 
and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

CODFISH CREAMED 

Soak two cups of boned confish for twenty minutes in 
cold water ; drain off water, put fish in stewpan with enough 
cold water to cover well, bring to a boil, drain off water; 
have three-fourths of a pint of milk hot, pour over fish, a 
lump of butter size of an egg, and mix a tablespoonful of 
flour in a little cold milk, add to fish, boil up and serve. 
Just before serving add a little white pepper. 

SARDINES ON TOAST 

Take large sardines from the box and drain off all the 
oil. Carefully skin and bone them. Prepare thin slices of 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

crisp buttered toast cut in strips ; on each strip lay a sardine. 
Sprinkle with cayenne and a grating of Parmesan cheese. 
Put in a hot oven just long enough to heat through and 
serve at once. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

One teacup mayonnaise or cooked salad dressing, three 
olives, one gherkine (small) chopped, one tablespoon capers 
(chopped), one teaspoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon 
onion juice. Mix thoroughly. 

SHRIMP A LA NEWBERG 

Chop two cans shrimps, mix yolks of two eggs, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 
one cup of milk. Cook until thick, salt and add shrimps. 
Pour over buttered toast or crackers. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG 

Lobster (meat from boiled fresh lobster), milk, one 
pint, egg one, cornstarch one teaspoon, butter one teaspoon, 
thick cream one tablespoon, lemon juice one teaspoon, salt 
and pepper to taste. Beat together the egg, cornstarch and 
milk, add salt and pepper. Put in the lobster cut in pieces, 
and butter. Cook until the sauce thickens; then add cream 
and lemon juice. Serve on crackers or toast. 

MRS. VIVIENNE MARTINEZ. 

SALMON LOAF 

One pound can salmon, drained ; rub with two table- 
spoons butter; beat two eggs lightly; add one-fourth cup 
bread crumbs ; one-fourth cup cream and one-half table- 
spoon chopped parsley ; cayenne and salt to taste. Mix thor- 
oughly with salmon and cook in steamer twenty-five min- 
utes. Serve with sauce. (See sauce following.) 

SAUCE FOR SALMON LOAF 

Drain liquor from salmon, add one tablespoon melted 
butter, one-half cup milk, bring to boiling point. Thicken 
with one teaspoonful cornstarch diluted with two table- 
spoonsful cold milk. Add four tablespoonsful tomato cat- 
sup (if desired), salt and pepper. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



32 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

SALMON LOAF WITH PEAS (Luncheon Dish) 

One can salmon (red), one egg, salt, one cup cracker 
crumbs, milk to moisten. Method : Make as for a beef loaf, 
when moulded tie up in a clean cloth and put in boiling 
water and cook thirty minutes, remove from cloth to platter, 
thicken can of peas slightly with white sauce, pour around 
the salmon loaf. Garnish top with slices of lemon. Saute 
with lemon sauce. 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one cup 
boiling water, juice one lemon, make as for white sauce. 

MRS. E. L. DuBOSE. 

BAKED FISH 

Select nice thick pieces of halibut, about four pounds, 
wash and dry, then dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Place 
in baking pan, cover fish with one pound canned tomatoes, 
one sliced onion, one sliced lemon and strips of fat bacon. 
Place in hot oven and bake one hour, or until fish is well 
done. Serve with tomato sauce and chopped parsley. 

MRS. H. E. MOORE. 

SALMON LOAF 

One can red salmon, one-half tablespoon salt, one and 
one-half tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon mustard, yolks of 
two eggs, one and one-half tablespoons melted butter, three- 
quarter cup milk, one-quarter cup vinegar, three-quarter 
tablespoon gelatine in two tablespoons cold water. Mix 
ingredients. Add egg yolks, butter and vanilla. Cook in 
double boiler until thick. Remove from fire, add vinegar 
and gelatine dissolved in cold water. 

MRS. E. H. MULLEN. 

TUNA LOAF 

One can tuna, two eggs, one-half cup cracker crumbs, 
few broken nut meats, mould into loaf. Put slice of bacon 
on top and bake. 

MRS. E. L, DuBOSE. 
SHRIMP ROLLS 

Cut some thin slices of bread, removing the crust, and 
butter. Sprinkle on them a few shrimps from which the 
shells have just been taken. Roll up each slice, keep them 
the same size, build them up on platter covered with doilie, 
garnish with little sprigs of parsley. 

MRS. ALBERTA RANSONE. 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



33 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

BAKED FISH A LA CREOLE 

Bake fish with just enough water to keep from burning, 
or sticking to pan ; while baking prepare this sauce : 

Fry in bacon or ham grease, or lard, one large onion, 
one large chile pepper, one very small piece of garlic (this 
may be omitted) all chopped very fine, add can of tomatoes 
(or equal quantity of fresh tomatoes), into which you have 
put a pinch of soda and a teaspoon of salt. When this sauce 
is smooth, add, if desired, one can of shrimp, one can of 
small mushrooms. After fish is on platter pour over it this 
sauce and serve at once. 

MRS. FRANKLIN L. MORGAN, 



OYSTERS 

"First month with an R., Lo! September is here, 
And with it the oyster to epicures dear." 

BLUE POINTS ON THE HALF SHELL 

Wash half dozen shells carefully, then slip a knife be- 
tween the upper and under shell and open, allowing them 
to remain on the under shell. Serve on plate of cracked 
ice with lemon and horseradish. 

BROILED OYSTERS 

Pick out large fat oysters, dry carefully and season well 
with salt and pepper, place on the broiler, turn on the other 
side when browned and drop into a hot dish and pour 
melted butter over them. Some serve them on squares of 
buttered toast. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Mix together eight drops tobasco sauce, one half tea- 
spoonful horse radish, one-half teaspoonful vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful lemon juice, one-half teaspoonful tomato catsup, 
add eight oysters. Serve in glasses. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Mix three tablespoons each of tomato catsup, Wor- 
cestershire sauce and lemon juice ; calt and pepper to taste 
and add fifty oysters cut in halves. Serve in glasses and 
eat with fork.. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



34 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

STEAMED OYSTERS 

Drain a quart of nice oysters and wash. Place in shal- 
low pan and place in steamer over boiling water ; cover 
steamer till the oysters are plump with edges ruffled. Have 
some slices of bread toasted nicely, dish oysters on the 
toast (on well heated dish), add butter, pepper and salt and 
serve hot. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Take as many large oysters as are desired, wash and 
dry them thoroughly with a towel. Cut some bacon in thin 
slices, coyer each oyster with them and pin on with wooden 
tooth picks. Broil or roast until the bacon is crisp and 
brown. Do not remove tooth picks. Serve hot. Very 
dainty. 

MRS. E. G. ROBIXSON. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Select large, plump oysters, put them into a colander to 
drain, wipe dry with a towel, being careful to remove all 
bits of shell, season well with salt and pepper. Beat one or 
two eggs, according to the. amount of oysters, roll bread 
crumbs or crackers fine, roll oysters in crumbs, then in eggs, 
again in the crumbs, fry in plenty of hot Violet Brand Short- 
ening. When cooked on one side turn by slipping knife 
blade under. Never stick a fork into an oyster, as it makes 
it tough. When a delicate brown remove from the fat, serve 
en napkin to absorb the grease. Should be served at once. 

MRS. J. E. BUCKLEY. 




No Other Chicken Can Compare 

with genuine milk-fed poultry for tenderness, delicacy of flavor or whole- 
someness. But, in ordering "milk-fed poultry" remember that the Young's 
Market Company is positively the ONLY producer of PROPERLY 
MILK-FED POULTRY on the Pacific Coast. 

Young's Fresh-Dressed Milk-Fed Poultry is sold ONLY through the 
YOUNG'S MARKET COMPANY STORES. Order direct from us, if 
you want the GENUINE. 



Phones: Home 10628 Main 8076 



'SKBK? 
ttODEHi 



Try 

Willowbrook 
Sausage 
Made Fresh 
Every Day 
Packed in 
Purity-Protecting 
Cartons 




nRRKETCD 



Dealers in all Meats, Fish, Fruits, 
Delicacies and Bakery Goods. 

MAIN STORE 638 S. BROADWAY 

Central and Gladys Avenues 
216 South Spring Street 

325 West Fifth Street 
131 Marine Street, Ocean Park 

WALTER E. SMITH COMPANY 



36 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

Poulty and Game 

"For finer or fatter ne'er ranged in a 

forest, or smoked in a platter." Goldsmith. 

TO FRY MILK FED CHICKENS If Under One and 
One-Half Pounds 

Split in half, wash clean and salt and pepper roll in 
flour, brown quickly in deep fat then lift into a kettle in 
which there is about one-half pint of boiling water under a 
rack so that the chicken does not touch the water, steam 
about 30 minutes or until served. 

When chickens weigh over one and one-half pounds 
each, joint and wash clean, salt and pepper, roll in flour, fry 
moderately fast until a golden brown (do not turn until 
brown), when browned on both sides cover and let steam 
very slowly for about thirty minutes or more, remove chick- 
en, stir in large spoonful flour in the grease and brown, add 
milk for a delicacy, and cover. Salt and pepper to taste. 
When frying more than one chisken take up as soon as 
fried, place in bake pan, add butter, cover and place in very 
slow oven so it will steam slowly for about thirty minutes, 
or until served. 

TO FRICASSEE CHICKEN 

Joint a four-pound hen, put in boiling water, stew until 
tender, remove and roll in flour, brown in butter and then 
remove again, stir flour in grease, brown it, add the stock 
that the chicken was stewed in and place chicken into the 
gravy ready to serve. 

MRS. P. M. YOUNG. 

ROAST TURKEY 

Select a young turkey, remove all the feathers care- 
fully, singe it over a burning paper on top of the stove ; 
then "draw" it nicely, being very careful not to break any 
of the internal organs; remove the crop carefully, cut off 
the head and tie the neck close to the body by drawing the 
skin over it. Now rinse through several waters, and in the 
last water mix a teaspoonful of soda. After washing wipe 
the turkey dry, inside and out, with a clean cloth, rub the 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



37 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

inside with salt, then stuff the breast with "Dressing for 
Fowls." Then sew up the turkey with a strong thread, tie 
the legs and wings to the body, rub it over with a little soft 
butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper; dredge with a 
little flour ; place in a dripping pan, pour in a cup of boil- 
ing water and set in the oven. Baste the turkey often, turn- 
ing around often so that every part will be uniformly baked. 
A fifteen pound turkey requires between three and four 
hours to bake. 

TURKEY DRESSING 

See that the turkey is cleansed and washed. Salt and 
pepper it inside. Take a loaf and a half of baker's bread, 
or take half and half of light bread and corn bread ; rub fine 
with the hands ; have in the skillet a lump of butter larger 
than an egg; cut into this one-half of an onion, let it cook 
a few minutes, but not brown ; then stir in the bread ; add 
one teaspoonful each of salt and pepper; let it get thor- 
oughly heated. Fill the turkey with this dressing and if any 
is left put in one end of the pan. Put the turkey into a 
dripping pan, salt and pepper the outside and dredge with 
a little flour. Put about one coffee cup of water in the pan ; 
baste very often ; have a moderate fire ; roast fifteen minutes 
to the pound. 

SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN 

Joint chicken or cut in joints, dip in sweet milk, dredge 
with white corn meal instead of flour ; salt and pepper. Fry 
in boiling hot fat. (I preferred lard and butter mixed.) 
Make a cream gravy. Serve with corn fritters made of 
canner or fresh corn. For three to four, one can of corn or 
six ears cut. Make a batter same as for hot cakes; put 
corn, salt and sugar to taste. Pour out of end of spoon into 
boiling fat. Cook a golden brown and serve. 

MRS. J. E. BUCKLEY. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Disjoint the chicken. Wash it carefully and salt light- 
ly, put on ice for twelve hours or longer (not absolutely 
necessary but it improves the chicken), rinse off and wipe 
dry. Roll each piece in flour, fry in hot lard (I prefer butter 
and lard mixed), until a golden brown, then add one table- 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



38 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

spoon of water, cover closely and simmer slowly until water 
cooks up. If chicken is large turn and add another spoon- 
ful of water, cooking slowly, but not so slow that the grease 
is soaked up. Put on hot platter. To make the gravy put 
one tablespoonful of flour into the hot lard, stir it well, 
cook a minute, add one cup cold water and one cup sweet 
milk, stir constantly, boil for an instant. 

MRS. W. A. KERLEY. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Make pastry not so rich as for puddings. Put chicken 
on and boil until the meat falls off, then put in pastry and 
season with salt and pepper. Take the bone and skin and 
put back into the water. When pastry is finished and meat 
put in, strain this water and thicken with flour, put butter 
in this and pour over the meat. Put the top on and cut a 
hole with a thimble in the top, and when done pour the rest 
of the thickened water in this hole to keep it from being too 
dry. 

FRICASEE OF CHICKEN, WHITE GRAVY 

One chicken, one onion, one tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonsful flour, one pint fresh milk, salt and pep- 
per to taste. 

Clean and cut chicken into joints and clean gizzard, 
liver and open heart. Put all in a stewpan, after seasoning 
with salt and pepper. Cover with boiling water, let simmer 
for an hour and a half or quarter if the chicken is very 
young, longer if the chicken is old. Add juice of two 
onions. Cook until tender. When done blend together one 
large teaspoonful of butter and of flour in a frying pan 
without browning; add and mix with a pint of milk. Add 
this to the chicken, mixing and stirring constantly till it 
boils. Salt and pepper to taste. Take from fire and add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs and a little chopped parsley. Serve 
hot. 

CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND 

Split a small chicken down back as for broiling; re- 
move breast bone and cut off pinions ; cut into four pieces ; 
dredge with salt and pepper ; dip in egg and fresh crumbs ; 
place in pan and pour over each piece enough melted butter 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



39 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

to moisten. Roast in oven eighteen or twenty minutes. 

Make cream sauce, taking cup of Bechemel sauce, add- 
ing one-half cup cream and one-half tablespoon butter. Pour 
sauce in dish and place pieces of chicken on it. Garnish 
with slices of fried bacon and parsley. 

KENTUCKY BROILED CHICKEN 

Pound and a half chicken, feathered, drawn and split 
down the back. Put in water with a tablespoon of salt, over 
night. Tablespoon each of butter and bacon drippings in 
frying pan, heated. Dry chicken thoroughly, dredge with 
salt, pepper and flour, place breast down in frying pan. Put 
a small plate with a flat iron or other weight on it. Be sure 
plate is not as large as pan. Cook slowly half hour on each 
side. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

One or several broiler size chickens split down back, 
place in pan, sprinkle salt and pepper over chicken. Flavor 
with Cover water, boil ten minutes on top of 

stove, then spread butter over chicken. Place on side of 
stove, brown lightly, then serve after making gravy with 
sweet milk, with rice or Irish potatoes. 

CHICKEN LOAF 

One hen boiled slowly till done, mince quite fine, add 
three hard boiled eggs, one-quarter teaspoon celery seed, 
four large crackers, salt and pepper. Mix well, mold into 
loaf, and press over night. 

BETTIE E. SMITH HUGHES. 

QUAIL ON TOAST 
.... Parboil in salt and water to toast on top of stove. 

Dredge with flour, pepper ;spread with butter, run in hot 
oven, brown golden. Make nice toast browned on both 
sides. Make a cream sauce with flour or corn starch and 
sweet milk. Smooth chopped parsley, chopped yolk of one 
egg or slice. Place quail on the toast, pour cream dressing, 
add chopped egg or sliced on toast and serve. 

CREAMED RABBIT 

Parboil salt water with red until tender, then remove 
and roll in flour and milk or flour and egg. Fry in boiling 
hot fats. Make gravy with the liquor with corn pop-over 
and potatoes. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



the greeting card created to supply the ever increasing 
demand from the friends of the expectant mother. 
ask to see "Laddies and Lassies To Be" 
designed and made in the studios of 

A. E. Little Company J^. 

Stationers Engravers Art Dealers ZW. 

, 426 South Broadway .^^ 




BROADWAY .* SiXTM 



c 



Compliments 

of A FRIEND 



SYSTEM THRIFT BOOKS 

===== DESIGNED ESPECIALLY FOR ============== 

SAVING FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES 

CHRISTMAS FUNDS INSURANCE PREMIUMS 

TAX PAYMENTS VACATIONS 

MARRIAGE FOR A HOME, ETC. 

The ideal medium for saving to accomplish a definite end of espe- 
cial interest to the wage-earner. SYSTEM THRIFT BOOKS are 
issued in denominations of $21.50, $25 and $50 payable 25c, 50c 
and $1 per week or in advance as desired. Call at our New Account 
Department for particulars of this unique plan. 

LOS ANGELES TRUST & SAVINGS BANK 

SIXTH AND SPRING STREETS 



41 

Viclet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 



MEATS 



"'But man is a carniverous production, 
And must have meat, at least one meal a day, 
He cannot live, like woodcocks, upon suction, 
But like the shark and tiger, must have prey." 

Byron. 

ROAST BEEF 

Take a rib piece or loin roast of four pounds. Wipe 
thoroughly all over with a wet clean towel. Lay in a drip- 
ping pan, and baste it well with butter or suet fat. Set it 
in a hot oven. Baste frequently with its own drippings, 
which will make it brown and tender. When partly done 
season with salt and pepper, as it hardens any meat to salt 
it when raw, and draws out its juices ; dredge with sifted 
flour to give it a frothy appearance. It will take about one 
hour and a quarter to be properly done, leaving the inside a 
little rare or red. Remove the meat to a hot dish, set where 
it will keep hot. Then skin the dripping from all fat, add a 
tablespoonful of flour, a little pepper and a teacupful of 
boiling water. Boil up once and serve in a hot gravy boat. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOMS 

Lard the fillet, put in a baking pan with a slice of onion, 
a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, a small carrot sliced, and half 
a cup of stock. Put a tablespoonful of butter over the fillet 
and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes, basting fre- 
quently. Dish the fillet ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour to 
the fat in the pan, mix ; add a pint of stock, a teaspoonful of 
browning sauce, strain ; add one can mushrooms, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of pepper. When boiling pour 
round the fillet and serve very hot. 

ROAST FRESH PORK 

Season with salt, sugar, pepper, a little powdered sage 
if liked ; put in roasting pan in oven. As soon as meat begins 
to brown, baste every fifteen minutes with hot water sea- 
soned with salt and pepper. Pork requires very thorough 
cooking to render it wholesome or palatable. Pork should 
be cooked longer than veal. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



42 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

BAKED HAM 

Put a ham butt in cold water, then boil slowly (one- 
half hour for each pound), changing the water when half 
done. Remove the rind, insert cloves in the sofe fat, cover 
thickly with brown sugar. Place in baking dish with little 
water and bake for one-half hour. 

MRS. F. C. MILLER. 

FLANK STEW EN CASSEROLE 

Take about one and one-half pounds of veal flank, and 
small piece of suet, cut into pieces about two inches square. 
Put suet i nhot skillet and add pieces of veal and brown on 
both sides. Place in casserole and dredge well with flour, 
salt and pepper. Then slice one large onion and brown in 
skillet with some of the suet fat. Add one can of tomatoes 
and one chopped bell pepper. Let come to a boil, then pour 
over the veal in the casserole. Add pepper and salt to taste 
and bits of butter. Cover and bake in over about one and a 
half hours. 

MRS. H. E. MOORE. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB WITH MINT SAUCE 

Remove the caul, wipe meat with wet cloth, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, place in hot roasting pan and place in 
hot oven. The heat in oven should be reduced after the 
first thirty minutes of roasting. It will take about one and 
three-quarters to two hours for roasting. Serve with mint 
sauce. 

Gravy : Drain off all but three tablespoons of fat from 
the dripping pan, dredge into it three tablespoons of flour 
and brown well. Add one pint of cold water, cook slowly, 
stirring constantly until thick and smooth. If made care- 
fully this will require no straining. 

Mint Sauce : Four tablespoons of minced mint leaves, 
one tablespoon of sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, six table- 
spoons of vinegar. Place mint in small covered bowl or cup 
and cover with sugar ; let stand one hour. Add salt to hot 
vinegar and pour over mint; let this infuse for ten minutes 
before serving. 

MRS. ALVA B. STEWART. 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



43 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

SOUTHERN RED MEAT OR RARE ROAST 

Six or eight pounds of beef. Insure by washing, place 
in roast, sprinkle black pepper over, rub salt in well with 
both hands, place in roaster with water half full, cut two 
lemons in thin slices, places on top of meat, one whole 
onion, sprinkle spice over the whole, place inside of slow, 
baste every twenty minutes, cook in a very hot stove, 45 
minutes. Turn meat the second time. Slice and serve hot 
with artichoke vinaigrette. Select four medium sized arti- 
chokes, remove the hardest lemon from the base pan, the 
bottom will tie separate with strings, tie to each bunch a 
slice of lemon and boil in salt until outside leaves detach, 
let them get cool in thier own liquor and set off on a napkin 
or drain, then serve with vinaigrette separate. 

BEEF LOAF 

Two pounds ground beef, one-half pound ground pork, 
four slices stale bread, four green chili peppers, one large 
onion, one large tomato, one egg, one teaspoon salt. Soak 
bread in milk or water then squeeze as dry as possible. 
Peel onion and tomato and chop with peppers very fine. 
Then mix all ingredients thoroughly and make into loaf 
about two inches thick. Bake in hot oven three-quarters 
hour. Makes a very pretty dish if a poinsettia is arranged 
on top, made of canned pimientoes. Garnish with parsley. 

MRS. C. P. OLDHAM. 

VEAL LOAF 

Two pounds veal, one pound fresh pork, chopped fine, 
season to taste with salt and pepper. Add three eggs un- 
beaten, twelve soda crackers, mix and bake in loaf. 

MRS. JOHN PARK DOUGALL. 

SPAGHETTI AND HAMBURG STEAK 

Cook four bunches of spaghetti in clear water until 
done, slice and fry two onions in butter, make out in cakes 
two pounds of hamburg steak, fry brown in same pan, slice 
three good sized tomatoes and two chili peppers over the 
meat, then the spaghetti, salt to taste, set on stove and let 
simmer until well done. 

MINNIE G. NEIGHBORS. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



44 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

SPANISH STEAK 

Sear a flank steak on both sides, then put in a baking 
pan and cover with the following: One can or a dozen large 
tomatoes, one chili pepper, one medium sized onion, salt, 
pepper and a little sugar, bake three-quarters to one hour 
in medium oven. 

MRS. H. C. WARDEN. 

FRIED FLANK STEAK 

Poorest steak in beef. If cooked properly is very pal- 
atable and most tender. Have butcher to score steak well. 
Dderge with bacon drippings, salt, pepper and flour. Put in 
frying pan with a tablespoon of bacon drippings. Care 
closely, fry slowly for half hour on each side. If pan is not 
kept covered closely every minute, except when turning, 
steak will not be tender. 

Gravy: Put two tablespoons flour in dripping after 
taking steak up, brown well, add one cup milk, and stir until 
smooth and thick. 

CHOP SUEY 

One pound of hamburger or ground pork, one ten-cent 
box of macaroni, one-half can of tomatoes, two or three 
large onions cut up fine. Fry meat and onions in butter, 
cook macaroni, then mix all together, and put a layer of 
mixture, then layer of cheese, using two or three layers 
with cheese on top. A pound of cheese in all. Bake slowly 
three-quarters of an hour. 

GEORGIE G. OLDHAM. 

BRAINS AND MUSHROOMS 

One small can mushrooms, one set of brains, one small 
can pimientos. Cook brains and mushrooms separate, make 
rich cream dressing and stir all together. Bake in rama- 
kins set in water. Cover with rolled crackers. 

MRS. F. A. CHASE. 

CREAMED TONGUE 

A slab of butter in the spider, one onion chopped fine, 
brown a little then add one tablespoon flour and one cup 
milk, enough to make a thick gravy. Add one-half can 
mushrooms cut small, twenty cents worth of boiled tongue 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



45 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

in squares. Just cook mushrooms and tongue long enough 
to heat. Serve on toast. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

DOBE ROAST CREOLE 

Into two tablespoons of bacon fat or butter, brown 
one very large onion, three chili peppers and two table- 
spoons of flour, then add two cups chopped tomatoes, either 
fresh or canned. Cook until a paste then add one pint boil- 
ing water and pour over a pot roast which has been placed 
in a casserole or a cover pot and cook slowly until very 
done. Just before taking up add the salt. 

MRS. P. H. BRADY. 

GENERAL ROBERT E. LEE'S FAVORITE DISH 

Use for this one pint of left-over chicken, turkey or 
meat of any kind, three or four toasted crackers, two hard- 
boiled eggs, two small cucumber pickles or two spoonfuls of 
chow-chow pickles, three cold boiled Irish potatoes, two or 
three stalks of celery or two teaspoonfuls celery-seed, one- 
half teacupful sugar, pepper and salt to taste, two raw eggs 
and one-half cupful sweet milk or meat gravy left over, 
mixed, with two tablespoonfuls of strong vinegar. 

Cut the meat off the bones, add pickles, celery, potatoes 
and boiled eggs and run through the meat-chopper. Put 
into a bowl, sprinkle in the sugar and spices and mix thor- 
oughly before adding the raw eggs beaten with milk or 
gravy. Add the two spoonfuls of vinegar, pour over the 
meat, and when thoroughly mixed turn into a deep, well- 
butter pan. Cook slowly in oven until a nice brown, turn 
out on a steak-platter, slice and serve, either hot or cold, 
with brown gravy or mayonnaise. 

What is left over can be served for an appetizing 
breakfast dish. 



Harlow's Cafe 

WISHES YOU LOTS OF GOOD LUCK 






- So. 



Forty-Five Feet From Broadway 

GENE MURPHY 

HABERDASHER 

My Shirts Guaranteed Not to Fade 

307 West Fifth Street, Between Broadway and Hill 

OFFICES: REFINERY: 

307-8-9 GROSSE BLDG. Vernon Avo. and Santa Fe 

R. R. Tracks 

MAIN 1348 CALL A-1348 

The California Oil & Asphalt Co. 

FOR 

STOVE AND FURNACE DISTALLATE 

HOTELS, RESTAURANTS and APARTMENT HOUSES 

"BEST" QUALITY with "PROMPT" DELIVERY 

Motor Transportation Co. 



TRUCKING 

1011-1013 SANTA FE AVENUE 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



47 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 



SALADS 



A Spanish proverb says : "To make a per- 
fect salad there should be a miser for vinegar, 
a spendthrift for oil, a wise man for salt, and a 
maniac to stir it." 

EGG SALAD 

Boil eggs, take yolks and mash until smooth, add pep- 
per, salt, mustard and celery seed, a little lamb, veal or 
chicken, also a little cabbage if you have it. Mix with 
mayonnaise and fill white. Arrange on crisp lettuce leaves 
with stuffed olives as a garnish. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Use large red apples, remove all the rind, leaving the 
unbroken cups. To the apple taken out, chop and mix 
an equal quantity of celery and a third as much nuts. Mix 
into a cream dressing and fill the cups covering the open- 
ing with dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD AU VERSAILLES 

Boil two chickens. Remove meat and chop in small 
cubes. Add one cup chopped celery, three-quarter cup pate 
de foies gras, three tablespoons chopped onions, one tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon black pepper, dash of cayenne, 
one teaspoon paprika, four tablespoons sherry. Serve cold 
with mayonnaise to which has been added 3 tablespoons of 
claret. 

FLORENCE BRADY. 

MARSHMALLOW SALAD 

Ten cents marshmallows, one-half pint double cream 
whipped, two large spoons mayonnaise, four or five rings of 
pineapple, several pieces of pimientos, nuts if wanted. 

Cut marshmallows, pineapple and pimientos in small 
pieces, whip cream, mix all together early in the morning. 
Set in ice box until wanted. This is very nice. 

MRS. F. A. CHASE. 

STUFFED EGGS LA PARIS 

Remove the yolks from twelve hard boiled eggs, mix 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



48 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

yolks well with two tablespoons grated celery, four table- 
spoons grated cheese, one-half clove of garlic, chopped salt 
and pepper to taste, two tablespoons Madeira wine. 

Refill whites and garnish with parsley. Serve very 
cold. 

FLORENCE BRADY. 

PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD 

Placed sliced pineapple in the heart of lettuce leaf. Pour 
a tablespoon of mayonnaise over this, then sprinkle mound 
shaped grated cream cheese. Add maraschino cherries if 
desired. 

ELIZABETH M. GOULD. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

One can sliced pineapple one box of strawberries, two 
oranges, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of sherry wine, 
one-half cup of orange juice, one can marshmallows. Place 
on ice. Serve on lettuce leaf with whipped cream dressing. 

MINNIE G. NEIGHBORS. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

One can of lobsters, same quantity of celery. Mix mus- 
tard, cayenne pepper to taste Add yolks of three eggs 
(hard boiled), one tablespoonful sherry wine and mix well. 
Pour over lobster and garnish with parsley. Sprinkle 
lightly with salt and sherry wine. 

SHRIMP SALAD 

Same as lobster salad, but substitute beer for the 
sherry. 

FLORENCE BRADY. 

TOMATO SALAD 

One boiled tongue, pulp of 10 or 12 large tomatoes, 
one-quarter of a bottle of chow chow, three large cucum- 
ber pickles, four hard boiled eggs chopped, salt and pepper. 
Cut the tops off the tomatoes and stuff them with the salad. 
Set on ice before serving. When ready to use put a tea- 
spoon of mayonnaise on top of each and set in lettuce leaf. 
MRS. ALBERTA RANSONE. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Take a tender cooked beet, hollow it out to make a 
cup, fill it with chopped apple, celery, pecan nuts, (walnuts 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



49 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

will answer), chopped very fine and on top a tiny ball of 
cream cheese and thin, cover the whole with a French dress- 
ing, and place on a crist lettuce leaf. Serve one for each 
place. 

MRS. W. A. HORNE. 

FRUIT SALAD 

One apple cut in dice, one orange two bananas, two 
slices pineapple, two dozen blanched almonds cut up, six 
marshmallows. Mix with mayonaise dressing or fruit 
salad dressing 

MRS. H C. WARDEN. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Two dozen English walnuts, two dozen white grapes, 
two large oranges, one can of sliced pineapple, three ba- 
nanas, one cupful of sugar two tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
one-half cupful of orange juice, maraseino cherries. Arrange 
on lettuce leaf and pour over it dressing of one-half cup of 
Maderia wine, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of lemon 
juice. The whites of eggs whipped well and flavored can 
be used as a dressing. 

MRS. MINNIE G. NEIGHBOR. 

DELICIOUS FRUIT SALAD 

One grape fruit, one orange, one-half cup pineapple, 
two bananas, one-half dozen marshmallows, whipped cream. 
Boiled dressing (made without mustard). Shred the grape 
fruit and orange pulp, add the pineapple and bananas, cut 
in small cubes, and the marshmallows cut into bits. To each 
serving allow one tablespoon salad dressing and two table- 
spoons of whipped cream. 

CARROLL L. STEWART. 

CUCUMBER WELLS 

Pare fresh, firm cucumbers and cut into two inch 
lengths, hollowing them out to form tiny wells. Drop into 
boiling salted water and let simmer gently until tender. 
Drain and chill thoroughly, fill with cold minced chicken, 
lobster, or salmon; mask with mayonnaise and serve cold 
with a pinch of finely chopped radish parings, topping each. 
Place on paper doilie and garnish with sprigs of parsely. 
MRS. VIVIENNE MARTINEZ. 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



50 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

ST. PATRICK SALAD 

One-half Knox geletine, two cups of hot water, one- 
third cup of vinegar, juice of one lemon, one-half cup sugar, 
one chopped cucumbers, one cup grated pineapple. Tiny 
speck of green fruit coloring. 

WHIPPED CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Yolks of two eggs, juice of two medium sized lemons, 
one-fourth teaspoon of salt and two teaspoonful of sugar, 
one-half pint whipped cream. Beat yolks thoroughly and 
add remaining ingredients, cook in a double boiler until 
thick; Let cool. Just before serving add one-half pint of 
cream, whipped stiff. Serve with any combination of fruit 
salads. 

MRS. G. W. CASE. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

Four teaspoons butter, two tablespoons flour, two 
tablespoons sugar, one cup milk; mix well. Put in double 
boiler and cook until it thickens. 

Add Second half. Three eggs well beaten without 
separating, one teaspoon salt and one teaspoon Coleman's 
mustard, two tablespoons sugar, one-half cup garlic-vinegar 
or plain vinegar if preferred. Cook to consistency of cream. 
Will keep indefinitely. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

One tablespoon mustard, two tablespoon flour, one 
teaspoon salt, one-third cup sugar, one-third cup of vinegar, ' 
two-third cup of water, four eggs, one-fourth cup of butter. 
Mix all dry ingredients with eggs. When perfectly smooth, 
add vinegar and water. Boil slowly in double boiler. When 
almost done, add one-half pint either sweet or sour cream. 
For small family, one-half this amount is sufficient. 

BETTIE E. SMITH HUGHES. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Use three parts of oil to one of acid (either vinegar or 
lemon juice). The regular recipe calls for a cup of oil for 
every yolk but this makes such a stiff dressing that I do not 
use more than two-thirds cup of oil. Beat the yolk stiff 
and then add oil by the tablespoonful and beat vigorously 
and add more oil thin your dressing more and then with 
the acid as you go along. Have oil, eggs, etc., very cold. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



51 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

I like to add a tablespoonful of whipped cream add salt, 
mustard to suit your own taste. 

MRS. E. A. LOY. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Two teaspoons of sugar, one-half teaspoon of mustard, 
one-half teaspoon of salt. Rub a don of garlic in mixing 
bowl, Worcestershire sauce to thicken, then add olive oil a 
little at a time and vinegar to taste. This is delicious over 
lettuce. 

MRS. W. E. SPROUSE. 



For Fruit Salad 

Three tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon mustard, one- 
half teaspoon salt, a little white pepper and paprika, butter 
size egg, yolks of three eggs. Cook in double boiler till thick 
as mush Take off stove and add juice of one lemon. When 
cool and ready to serve add one-half pint whipped cream. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

STUFFED ROLLS 

Scald one cup milk, add two tablespoons butter; when 
lukewarm add one teaspoon salt, one yeast cake dissolved 
in two tablespoons lukewarm water, and one and one-half 
cups flour. Let rise, add flour to knead, pat and roll out, 
shape with a biscuit cutter, arrange on a buttered sheet 
three-quarters inches apart, let rise, brush over with white 
of egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Remove tops and 
centers and fill with the following : 

CHICKEN SALAD 

To two cups cold boiled fowl cut into one-half inch 
dice, add one and one-half cups celery cut in small pieces 
and moisten with : 

BOILED DRESSING 

Mix one-half tablespoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, 
one and one-half teaspoons sugar, a few grains cayenne, 
and one-half tablespoon flour, add yolks two eggs, slightly 
beaten, one and one-half tablespoons melted butter, three- 
fourths cup milk and one-fourth cup vinegar. Cook over 
boiling water until mixture thickens. 

Use level measurements. 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



Maximum Quality at 
a Minimum Price 

"L. A. GAS " 

Gives Complete Satisfaction. 



LOS ANGELES GAS AND ELECTRIC CORPORATION 

645 South Hill Street 
Main 8920 Home 10003 



COMPLIMENTS OF 
H. E. HUNTINGTON 



53 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 



VEGETABLES 

"O little green things growing, we hear the first faint 

stirring 
Of roots beneath dark mold that hides the plants from 

sight; 
They know that spring is coming ; they hear the birdwings 

whirring, 
And every one yearns upward toward the sweet warm 

light." 

LETTUCE 

Select nice, fresh heads, look over carefully, put into 
cold water long enough to make the leaves crisp ; lay on a 
flat dish and cover the top with slices of hard boiled eggs. 
This is eaten with vinegar, pepper and salt, or mayonnaise 
dressing. 

CUCUMBERS 

Select medium sized cucumbers of a green color, pare, 
cut off the hard end near the stem, and slice thin ; let stand a 
half hour in cold salt water. Serve with chopped ice, vine- 
gar, pepper and salt. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

Cut ends from large green bell peppers, remove seed. 
Then boil about five minutes. Stuff with any kind of cold 
meat chopped, mixed with bread crumbs and seasoned with 
onions, parsley, salt and pepper. Bake. On removing from 
oven sprinkle grated cheese on top. 

MRS. ALBERTA RANSONE. 

ONIONS AU GRATIN 

Select white onions of uniform size; peel them, cover 
with boiling water and let stand for five minutes. Drain, 
cover with boiling salted water and simmer until they are 
quite tender. Prepare a white sauce, using for one quart of 
onions, one tablespoon and half of butter, the same of flour, 
two-thirds of tablespoon of salt, one-third of a teaspoon of 
pepper and one and a half cups of milk. When the onions 
are tender drain them and arrange in buttered baking dish. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



54 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

Into the sauce stir three tablespoons of grated mild cheese 
and pour it over the onions. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs 
and place in a hot oven until browned. 

FRIED ONIONS 

Slice onions after removing the dry skins, about one- 
sixth of an inch thick. Cover the bottom of a frying basket 
with these slices and fry in hot grease until a rich brown. 
Shake the basket to free them from grease and dust lightly 
with salt and pepper. Serve with beef steak. 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED 

Mash potatoes, which have been boiled until thoroughly 
done; add lump of butter, a little sweet milk and salt to 
taste. Heap on shallow baking dish and smooth, sticking in 
bits of butter. Place in hot oven and brown. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Boil six medium sized Irish potatoes in skins, make 
white sauce, one tablespoon butter melted, one tablespoon 
flour, add cup of milk, until smooth. Sauce : Stir one cup 
grated cheese, peel potatoes and slice layer of potatoes, 
salt, then fill in alternate layers. Put pepper, butter and 
paprika on top, brown in oven twenty minutes. 

MRS. E. L. DuBOSE. 

BAKED CORN WITH TAMALE 

One can corn, one can chicken tamale. Mix corn and 
tamale in baking dish, put in few lumps of butter and 
season with salt. Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
. CARROLL LOY STEWART. 

CORN OYSTERS 

One can of corn, four broken crackers, one-fourth spoon 
pepper, salt and butter to season, one egg, one tablespoon 
cream. Simmer corn few moments first, then put in in- 
gredients. Drop in deep fat and brown. 

MRS. E. L. DuBOSE. 

CORN FRITTERS 

Milk, two tablespoonfuls ; egg, one, slightly beaten ; 
flour, one-half cupful ; baking powder, one-half teaspoonful ; 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful ; corn, one cup seasoned to 
taste. Mix and sift the flour, baking powder and salt. Add 
the milk to the beaten egg and mix into the sifted flour to 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



55 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

a smooth batter. Season corn and add to the batter. Drop 
by tablespoonfuls into deep, smoking hot fat, and fry to a 
delicate brown. Drain on brown paper and serve in a hot 
dish in which is a folden napkin. 

MRS. VIVIENNE MARTINEZ. 

SUMMER SQUASH, SPANISH 

Take three or four squash, one medium sized onion, one 
tomato, two green chili peppers. Cut all up together and 
cook until tender, salt to taste, sprinkle grated cheese over 
top and place i nthe oven a few minutes. This is delicious. 

CARROTS 

Pare and dice carrots also one bell pepper, cook to- 
gether until tender and pour over this a cream dressing. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING WITH CHICKEN 

Boil six large ears of corn; slice the grains off, com- 
mencing with a very thin coat of the outer grains. Boil a 
spring chicken until quite tender, salt, pepper and flour each 
piece of the chicken. Beat four eggs with a small cup of 
butter, a spoonful of pepper and salt ; add to the corn, mak- 
ing a thick batter with the top of the chicken water; place 
the batter in a large buttered baking dish ; lay the floured 
pieces of chicken carefully down into the batter; sift a little 
flour over the top of the batter, but not on the side of the 
dish. Bake it until the bottom, top and sides are a light 
brown. 

MRS. W. A. HORNE. 

SOUTHERN CORN PUDDING 

Six nice ears of corn, cut down each row of grains, then 
cut off of cob and scrape cob so as to get the juice. Add two 
beaten eggs, salt, pepper and about teaspoonful of butter 
and enough milk to make it quite thin. Bake about one- 
half an hour. 

MRS. B. F. CHURCH. 

BAKED CORN 

One can corn, beat two whole eggs, one cup finely 
chopped cheese, one bell pepper cut up fine, one-half cup 
sweet milk. Put altogether in pan and bake in slow oven. 

ESCALLOPED CORN 

Cover the bottom of baking dish with canned corn ; put 
in a layer of bread crumbs, salt, pepper and butter to taste ; 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



56 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

then another layer of corn, covering with bread crumbs, 
seasoning and butter; add milk enough to make moist and 
put in oven and bake. 

SPANISH BEANS 

Put to soak over night one quart pink beans, in morn- 
ing boil up with one-half teaspoon soda, until the skins 
crack when blown on. Drain and rinse well. Put on to 
boil with one-half pound of pork and a dozen little chili 
capino peppers, two large or three small cloves of garlic. 
Fry three or four slices of bacon, add two-thirds can of 
pimentos, one large onion ; when fried add some bean juice 
and boil for a few minutes, stirring often. Then add this to 
the beans, and boil for two or three hours. One-half hour 
before serving add one full can of tomatoes, salt to taste. 
MRS. JOHN PARK DOUGALL. 

SPANISH BEANS 

One good pint pink beans, wash and soak over night. 
Next morning put on to boil in same water with a good- 
sized pinch of soda. Boil till tender, but not too long. Pour 
off water and wash through several hot waters. Then mix 
with one can tomatoes, one bunch celery, one onion, one 
chili pepper, sugar, pepper and salt, three or four slices 
bacon and cover with hot water. Cook slowly two or three 
hours. 

MRS. H. C. WARDEN. 

GREEN TOMATOES EN SURPRISE 

Chop one-half dozen medium size green tomatoes and 
simmer until tender, skimming out skins. Same out of white 
onions until tender in separate vessel. Mix after tender, 
adding salt, pepper, paprika, butter, cook few moments 
and serve. 

MRS. E. L. DuBOSE. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Select large perfect tomatoes, remove stem end. Make 
a small cut both ways across top, fill with finely chopped 
onion and green pepper, season well with salt and pepper. 
Add small bits of bacon, as much as tomato will hold. Cook 
slowly until tender. Searve immediately. Good served in 
combination with Boston baked beans and baked potatoes. 
DIXIE WILLIAMS FARNSWORTH. 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening ty a Long Way 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

One pinth ot mashed sweet potatoes, add one table- 
spoon of butter, one teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of 
butter, one teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of pepper, 
one tablespoon of chopped ceiery (if you like). When cold 
form in croquettes and dip in the yolk of egg, roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

MRS. W. E. SPROUSE. 

ASPARAGUS A LA MILANESE 

Boil asparagus in salt water. When tender, drain, place 

on deep platter, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and 

pour beaten eggs, one for each person, over all. Season 

well with butter. Place in hot oven until eggs are done. 

DIXIE WILLIAMS FARNSWORTH. 

EGG PLANT 

Cut the egg plant in two lengthwise, then with a sharp 
knife remove every bit without disfiguring the shell. Boil 
the egg plant in salt water till tender. While that is cooking 
ornament the shell by notching or scalloping, with a sharp 
knife around the edge. Drain the egg plant, add one well 
beaten egg, one onion chopped fine, one spoonful of sugar, 
butter the size of an egg, pepper, salt and return to the shell 
put in oven to brown well. 

MRS. W. A. HORNE. 

SAUCE FOR ITALIAN PASTES 

Three pounds lean beef, one onion chopped fine, one 
handful dried mushrooms (soak in hot water until soft, 
then chop fine), one-half can tomatoes, spoonful rosemary, 
spoonful thyme, one-half can olive oil, one pound butter. 
Heat oil and butter, put meat in, brown well, season with 
pepper, salt. Add onions and mushrooms. Cook until 
onions are rich brown, add tomatoes and thyme. Simmer 
on slow fire for several hours, adding stock or boiling water 
to keep from boiling. 

DIXIE WILLIAMS FARNSWORTH. 

ITALIAN TOMATO SAUCE "SHELL" MACARONI 

1. Beef pot roast, browned in lard or butter (no water.) 
2. Add about one can of tomatoes ; chop fine, mint Italian, 
parsley, onion or garlic, chili if liked hot; cook all together 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



58 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

slowly and for a long time ; add a little water if too rich 
when cooked. 3. Macaroni, put into water which is boiling: 
vigorously, strain through colander when cooked. 4. Put 
layer of hot macaroni, grated cheese, tomato sauce, until 
baking pan or casserole is filled. Ready to serve. 

E. PAGE KERNS. 

SPAGHETTI, SPANISH 

Spaghetti, one box ; tomatoes, one can ; hamburg steak, 
one and one-half pounds; bacon, seven slices; onions, one 
large; pepper colas, eight, cut fine. Cut bacon and onions 
fine, fry till brown, then add tomatoes, pepper colas, salt, 
steak and cook till meat is about done. Now add the spag- 
hetti, which has previously been boiled till tender and 
washed thoroughly in cold water, cook about half an hour. 
Just before taking from fire add about half pound grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

MRS. VIVIENNE MARTINEZ. 

BOILED RICE 

Have four cups water boiling rapidly in an uncovered 
stew pan. Add one cup well washed rice slowly so as not 
to stop the boiling. Boil so rapidly that the kernels fairly 
dance in the water. Cook from twenty to thirty minutes, 
depending upon the age of the rice and add more water if 
necessary. Test often and the moment the grains are soft 
and before the starch begins to dissolve and cloud the water 
pour into a colander. Drain and stand the colander on a 
pan and place in oven where the heat will pass through the 
rice, or return to kettle and stand over a slow fire, shape in 
kettel so as to let steam escape and the kernels became dry 
and sweet and each grain will be separate. Be careful not 
to cook the rice enough to burst the grains, as nothing can 
prevent them from sticking together. Plain boiled rice is 
served with mutton or lamb and poultry of all kinds ; as a 
starchy accompaniment to dishes made of dried peas, beans 
and lentils. 

MRS. J. E. BUCKLEY. 

SPANISH RICE 

One and one-half cups of boiled rice, two or three slices 
of bacon, chopped into small pieces, one good sized onion, 
three medium sized tomatoes, two green hot peppers. Fry 
bacon, add onions, stir until tender, then add tomatoes 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



59 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

peeled and cut up, and peppers and rice. Mix thoroughly, 
put in baking dish and bake until all the juices are absorbed 
and the rice is dry. Season with salt, 

MRS. W. A. BROWN, 

PILAF (TURKISH) 

Into double boiler put one cup rice, one cup stock, one 
cup tomato, one scant teaspoon salt. When tender saute 
with two tablespoons butter, add a little paprika and if you 
like, a little curry powder. 

SPANISH RICE 

Saute one cup rice in two tablespoons of bacon fat or 
butter, into which has been placed two chili peppers chopped 
fine and two tablespoons of chopped onion, add two cups of 
tomato juice and cook until rice is rather dry, season with 
salt. 

PAULINE CANTRELL BRADY. 



BREAD 



"Man must not live by bread alone, but by every word 
of God." 

BREAD 

Original way to make b'scuit. Two cups of flour, two 
teaspoons of baking powder, one rounding tablespoon of 
shortening, one cup of sweet milk. Sift flour and baking 
powder together, rub in shortening, then milk. Mix thor- 
oughly, turn out on floured board and knead well. Bake in 
moderate oven. Will not hurt to let stand, in fact I think 
ft improves them to stand a few minutes. 

MRS. W. A. BROWN. 

KENTUCKY BISCUIT 

Four cups of unsifted flour, four tablespoons of lard, 
one teaspoon of salt, one cup of ice water. Rub lard into 
flour thoroughly. Add water gradually and work till the 
dough blisters and snaps. Make out into balls, flatten with 
rolling pin. Stick with fork and bake in hot oven. Should 
bake about fifteen minutes. 

MRS. M. E. CHRISTIAN. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



6Q 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Lon-g Way 

GEORGIA SWEET POTATO BISCUIT 

One pint of flour, one pint of potato, one-half cupful 
of granulated sugar, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoonful 
of soda, and buttermilk to mix. The potatoes should be 
baked, instead of boiled, and run through a meat-chopper 
before measuring. Mix the dough and allow to stand sev- 
eral hours before making out the biscuit. Bake slowly in a 
moderate oven. 

This is the recipe of an old negro cook, famous in ante- 
bellum days. 

VIRGINIA BEATEN BISCUIT 

One quart of sifted flour, one teaspoon of salt, one- 
fourth pound of butter, milk to moisten. Put flour in a 
bowl, add the salt, then rub the butter into it with the hands, 
add the milk gradually until just moist. Work and knead 
until smooth and elastic, then put the dough on a block 
and beat until full of bubbles. Roll one-half inch thick, cut 
in small round cakes, stick with a fork, and bake in a quick 
oven, a light brown. 

SCOTCH SCONES 

Four cups flour, one egg, five tablespoons melted butter, 
one tablespoon sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one scant 
teaspoon baking soda, two scant teaspoons cream tartar, 
enough sweet milk to make soft dough. Divide into five 
pieces, roll each piece out separately, and cut with sharp 
knife into four equal pieces (any shape you like). Bake in 
hot oven. Currants or raisins may be added if you like. 
This makes twenty small scones. 

MARION CORNWALL. 

BROWN BREAD 

A. Two cups graham flour, one cup white flour, one 
teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon salt, one cup of nuts 
and raisins. 

B. Two cups of sour milk, one teaspoon soda. 

C. One-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of sugar. 

Add B to C, then add A. Bake one hour in moderate 
oven. 

MRS. E. H. MULLEN. 

POTATO ROLLS 

One cup mashed potatoes, one cup granulated sugar 
stirred in while potatoes are warm, one cake compressed 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



61 

"Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

yeast soaked in one cup warm water. Stir these together 
at night and let rise until morning. 

Four eggs beaten, one cup butter. Add this to sponge 
that has raised over night. Do not stir, but mix with hands 
adding flour until you have a soft dough; roll out as for 
biscuit. 

If to be used at noon set in a warm place to rise dur- 
ing the forenoon as they must be very light. 

They may be set away in a cool place and not allowed 
to rise until about three hours before baked. Grease pan 
and do not put too close together in pan. Put melted but- 
ter and powdered sugar on top just before they are done. 

HEALTH BREAD WITH YEAST 

One quart lukewarm water, one-half cake of yeast 
(compressed), one tablespoonful of salt, one-half scant cup 
of molasses, one level teaspoon of baking soda, white flour, 
and graham flour as directed below. 

Mix lukewarm water, one-half cake compressed yeast, 
one tablespoonful of salt and enough white flour, perhaps 
one quart, to make stiff batter. Let stand in warm place 
until light and foamy. Take scant one-half cup of molasses, 
stir in level teaspoon of baking soda, add enough warm 
water to fill cup, stir in bread, then add graham flour 
enough to make good stiff batter. Fill good deep pans half 
full, let rise until pans are level full, then bake one-half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

MRS. EMMA A. LOY. 

BRAN MUFFINS (Health Bread) 

Two cups bran, one and one-quarter cups sour milk 
(with some cream), one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, 
one cup chopped walnuts, one or two eggs. Put milk, soda 
and salt together, stir in bran and nuts, beat eggs lightly 
and add. Bake in muffin pans. 

EMMA A. LOY. 

BRAN BISCUIT 

Two cups graham flour, one cup white flour, one cup 
bran health flour, two tablespoons shortening, one teaspoon 
soda, one-half cup sugar. 

MRS. FANNIE WRIGHT. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



62 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

WAFFLES 

Two cups of cold sweet milk, three cups of flour, two 
tablespoons of melted butter, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one teaspoon salt, two eggs. Mix milk in gradually, add 
butter, then yolks, lastly whites beaten stiff. Bake at once, 

NUT BREAD 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, one cup nuts, 
four cups flour, four teaspoons baking powder. Put in pan 
and raise one-half hour. Bake one hour. 

VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD 

Three tablespoons melted butter, two cupfuls corn meal, 
one quart milk, one teaspoon salt, three eggs. Heat milk 
almost to boiling point, then stir in meal and salt, add but- 
ter and cook five minutes, stirring all the time. Cool mix- 
ture and add yolks of eggs well beaten. Beat white of eggs 
to stiff froth and fold in. Pour batter in two-quart pan, well 
greased, and bake in moderate oven forty-five minutes. 
Serve while hot, using a spoon in serving. 

MARION CORNWALL. 

SOUTHERN CORN PONE 

Three cups bolted corn meal, one teaspoon salt. Mix 
with cold water. Make three pones in skillet, bake 
until thoroughly done. If bolted meal is not procurable 
scald meal slightly before mixing with cold, water. 

SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD 

One-half cup white corn meal, scald with one-half cup 
boiling water, add one-half cup buttermilk, one-half cup 
sweet milk, one-half salt spoon of salt, two teaspoons level 
lard, two well beaten eggs, salt and soda. Turn into a very 
hot greased pan. Cook twenty minutes. 

BETTIE E. SMITH HUGHES. 

NUT BREAD 

Two cups flour, one-half cup sugar (scant), one cup 
sweet milk, one-half salt spoon of salt, two teaspoons level 
baking powder, three-fourths cup chopped nuts, one well 
beaten egg. Set to rise one-half hour where it will not be 
too warm. Cook three-quarters of an hour. Nice with one 
cup seeded raisins added. 

MRS. E. M. SEMPLE. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



SECURITY FOR SAVINGS 




SAVINGS COMMERCIAL TRUST 

The Oldest and Largest Savings Bank in the Southwest 

SECURITY BUILDING EQUITABLE BRANCH 

Fifth and Spring First and Spring 

Los Angeles 

The Woman's Shop 

On the Mezzanine, is arranged so as to offer every "trading 
comfort" and we especially desire that women who wish a 
quiet place to rest or meet their friends will avail themselves 
of the conveniences we've provided for them here. 

j? "Desmond's" 

Women's 

Wear Spring near Sixth 

Hammond Lumber Company 

(Southern California Division) 

LUMBER SASH and DOORS MILL WORK 

HARDWARE - CORRUGATED IRON - LIME - CEMENT - PLASTER 

Roofing Applied or in Rolls Hardwood Flooring Laid 

Main Office and Yards, 2010 South Alameda Street 

Sunset So. 1501 LOS ANGELES Home 60364 

Wholesale Yard Terminal 

THOMAS B. CLARK 
Antique Furniture 

MAHOGANY AND ROSEWOOD; COLONIAL AND 
OLD ENGLISH 

We have the largest stock in the city of Fine, Old Mahogany, 

Rosewood and Black Oak Furniture. Also Old 

Porcelains and Brasses. 

840 SOUTH HILL STREET F-1907 BDWY. 1921 



64 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

COOKIES 

"The beauty of the house is order, 
The blessing of the house is harmony, 
The glory of the house is hospitality." 

AMMONIA COOKIES 

One-half ounce bakers' ammonia, one-half pint sweet 
milk, two eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one-half 
teaspoon salt, flavor and mix soft. Bake in quick oven. Put 
ammonia in bowl and cover with sweet milk. Let stand 
over night. In the morning add sugar, butter, salt, and 
the well beaten eggs. Add sufficient flour to make dough 
stiff enough to roll. Cut in fancy shapes and bake. Use 
any kind of flavoring. 

MARION CORNWALL. 

BOSTON COOKIES 

Cream one-half cup butter, add gradually three-fourths 
cup sugar, and two eggs well beaten. Add one-half tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in three-quarters tablespoon hot water, 
three-fourths cup flour mixed and sifted with one-fourth 
teaspoon salt and one-half teaspoon cinnamon ; then add 
one-half cup chopped English walnut meat, one-half cup 
raisins seeded and chopped and one cup flour. Drop by 
spoonfuls one inch apart on a buttered sheet and bake in a 
moderate oven. Use level measurements. 

MRS. C. D. SWAIN. 

DROP COOKIES 

One and one-quarter cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one-half level 
teaspoon soda, one-half tablespoon hot water, one table- 
spoon sherry, one teaspoon vanilla, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one and one-half cups flour, one-half pound dates cut fine, 
one pound walnuts chopped fine, one-half teaspoon cinna- 
mon. 

MRS. W. E. SPROUSE. 

DEMOCRATIC COOKIES 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one tablespoon 
milk, flavoring, two eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, two cups flour, cream butter, add 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



65 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

sugar, yolks well beaten, flour, baking powder and salt, milk 
and whites beaten stiff. Flour enough to roll. Cut with 
cutter. After they are in pan place one-half walnut on each 
cooky. Bake in quick oven. 

MRS. W. C. TYLER. 

SNOW FLAKES 

Three eggs, two tablespoons of cream, butter size of 
walnut, pinch of salt, enough flour to work stiff. Roll out 
and let stand for a while until dry. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, after frying in deep fat. 

MRS. F. O. REED. 

ENGLISH COOKIES 

One cup of butter, well creamed, three eggs, well 
beaten, one cup pulverized sugar, thoroughly dissolved in 
the egg. Mix all together, beat well, and add flour to make 
stiff enough to roll. 

E. PAGE KERNS. 

HERMITS 

Three cups of flour sifted with three teaspoons baking 
powder, one egg, one cup of milk, one-half cup butter, one 
and one-half cup of sugar, one cup of chopped raisins, one 
cup of nuts, spices to taste. 

MRS. W. A. HORNE. 

ROX 

Three eggs, one and one-half cup sugar, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one cup butter, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one teaspoon cloves, one-fourth teaspoon ginger, pinch 
salt, one pound raisins, one cup chopped nuts, flour enough 
to make a dough that drops. 

MRS. KATE N. PROVINES. 

LEP KUCHEN 

Two tablespoons of butter, one and one-half cups sugar, 
two cups nuts, one-fourth pound citron, three and one- 
quarter cups flour, one cup molasses, six yolks and two 
whites of eggs, one wineglass whiskey, three bars chocolate 
(sweet), one teaspoon each cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice and 
cloves, two teaspoons baking powder. Drop from the spoon 
on greased pan and ice if desired. 

MRS. ORLANDO HALLIBURTON. 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



66 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS 

Three medium-sized potatoes, boiled and put through 
colander, beat lightly in this one teaspoon butter, one-half 
teaspoon salt. Beat two eggs in a cup, fill up with milk and 
beat lightly together. Stir in the potatoes, add heaping cup 
of sugar, one-half teaspoon baking powder in just enough 
flour to mix soft. 

MRS. F. O. REED. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Three and one-half cups flour, one cup cream, one cup 
powdered sugar, two teaspoons baking powder, two eggs, a 
pinch of salt. 

MRS. E. M. SEMPLE. 
"And Marty's twins, from Aunt Marin's. 
And little orphant Annie, 
All's a eatin' ginger bread 
And giggle-in at granny." James Whitcomb Riley. 

GINGER COOKIES 

One cup granulated sugar, one cup Aunt Jane's mo- 
lasses, three eggs, one cup butter, two teaspoons ginger, two 
teaspoons salt, three-quarter cup boiling water poured on 
two teaspoons soda. Let cool and mix as any cookies. 

GEORGIE G. OLDHAM. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

One-half cup shortening, fill cup with hot water, one 
teaspoon of soda in hot water, one-half cup molasses, fill cup 
with sugar, one dessert spoon of ginger, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one egg, two scant cups of flour. 

MRS. F. O. REED. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

One cup molasses, one-half cup butter or Crisco, one 
teaspoon each of cloves, ginger and cinnamon, two tea- 
spoons soda dissolved in one cup boiling water, two and 
one-half cups of flour. Add two well-beaten eggs and bake. 

MRS. KATE N. PROVINES. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



67 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

OLD-FASHIONED GINGER LOAF 

One cup black molasses, one cup sugar, one cup butter- 
milk, flat teaspoon soda, one-half cup butter, melted, flat 
spoon ginger, spice, cloves, cinnamon. Flour to make soft 
batter. 

MRS. E. L. DuBOSE. 

SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD 

One cup molasses, one cup sour milk, two and one-half 
cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons of soda, two tea- 
spoons of ginger, one teaspoon of salt, two teaspoons of 
baking powder, one-third cup butter. Bake in a moderate 
oven thirty to forty minutes. 

INEXPENSIVE GINGERBREAD 

One cup brown sugar, three-quarter cup any shorten- 
ing, one egg well beaten, one cupful molasses, one teaspoon 
each of ginger and cinnamon. Into one cupful of boiling 
water stir two even teaspoonsful of soda, three cups flour. 
Add three-quarter cup of raisins if desired. Use part of the 
flour to dredge raisins. 

MRS. W. A. KERLEY. 



Let Christopher's 
Suggest a Menu 



If you are going to give a party and just can't decide on what to serve, 
please consult us and we will suggest the party complete for you. This 
is a complimentary service for our friends. Our exclusive stores are on 
Broadway between 5th and 6th and between 7th and 8th. 



Christophers 



Compliments of 

First National Bank 




69 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 



Dessert Dishes 

A wilderness of sweets." Milton. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

Three eggs, one tablespoon of flour, one cup of sugar. 
Add flour and sugar to beaten eggs. Stir into one quart 
of scalded milk. When cool, add one quart of cream, one 
quart of crushed peaches, one-half teaspoon of vanilla, 
one-fourth teaspoon of salt. Sweeten to taste. 

BETTIE E. SMITH HUGHES. 

MARSHMALLOW SOUFFLE 

1. Dissolve one rounded tablespoon of granulates of 
jelatine in one-half cup cold water and stir over fire until 
thoroughly dissolved. (2.) Add one-half cup cold water 
to hot gelatine and let stand to cool a little as you separate 
whites of four eggs. (3.) Beat the whites of eggs with a 
tiny pinch of salt until stiff and then pour dissolved gelatine 
very slowly into beaten whites. Beat continually while 
pouring in gelatine. (4.) Sprinkle in one cup of sugar and 
keep on beating. (5.) Add one teaspoonful of almond 
extract and beat util well mixed. (6.) Take out one-third 
of mixture and tint pink, spread it over bottom of deep dish, 
sprinkle over this choped pecans. Then put on second 
layer of white and more nuts and candied fruit; the last 
third tint lavender and spread on top of white layer. Put 
in cold place. 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

Maple syrup, large cupful ; eggs, four ; cream, one 
quart. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add the syrup. Cook 
slowly and beat until thick. Whip the cream and add the 
beaten whites. Add this to the other and sweeten if neces- 
sary. Freeze as for any ice cream. 

MRS. VIVIENNE MARTINEZ. 

PEACH COMPOTE 

Peaches, one can (or like amount of fresh fruit) ; mara- 
schino cherries, small bottle ; oranges, one-half dozen ; 
marshmalows, about ten cents worth. In the bottom of 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



70 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

each compote glass put a half peach. Sliced oranges, chop 
marshmallows and cherries rather fine and fill in next, using 
both fruit and juice. This will serv from ten to twelve 
people. 

MRS. VIVIENNE MARTINEZ. 

REAL ITALIAN CUSTARD 

Yolks of two eggs, beaten well ; add four heaping tea- 
spoons of sugar and beat again. Fill large half of egg shell 
four times with sherry wine, add to eggs and sugar and beat 
well. 

Put in a thin bowl or double boiler, set in boiling water 
and stir well until thick. Cool before using. Very fine. 
MRS. JOHN PARK DOUGALL. 

MADAM POMPADOUR 

Into a pint of whipped cream add diced bananas and 
marshmallows. Serve ice cold. 

CREME DE MENTHE 

Two cups sugar, one and one-quarter cups water, thor- 
oughly dissolve by stirring together without heating, then 
let stand until it becomes clear and thick like syrup. Add 
as much grain alcohol as syrup, put in one teaspoonful pep- 
permint extract and color green with fruit coloring. 

Always serve through crushed ice in small glasses after 
a rich dinner. It aids digestion and is a delightful cordial. 

LEMON AND ORANGE DESSERT 

Two slightly heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch dis- 
solved in cold water, to which add three pints of boiling 
water (this quantity of boiling water should make this 
about the consistency of thin starch). Add to this the juice 
of two large lemons or three small ones, two cupfuls and 
one-half of sugar, a pinch of salt. Allow this sauce to come 
to a boil, remove from the fire and when cold pour over six 
oranges which have been peeled and cut into small bits (not 
sliced thin, but cut more like small chunks). This quantity 
will be enough with which to serve ten people. The whites 
of two well-beaten eggs may be poured over the top of this 
dessert. By freezing the above it makes delicious orange 
sherbet. Omit the oranges and freeze it, and you have the 
best ever lemon sherbet. 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



71 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

BAVARIAN CREAM WITH PINEAPPLE 

Take one can (and juice) of grated pineapple and boil 
with two cups sugar. Press through a sieve and add one 
package of gelatine dissolved in one cup water. Stir and 
add one quart of whipped cream and pour in mould. 

MRS. W. N. PERRY. 

PINEAPPLE FANCHONETTS 

Cut rounds from plain pastry. Plan these over inverted 
muffin tins, pinch in to fit sides. Bake in a hot oven. Fill 
these with pineapple cut in cubes. Arrange a merangue on 
on top. Brown slightly in oven. Merangue: Made with 
two whites of eggs, four tablespoonsful of sugar. Beat eggs 
very light and then add sugar. 

MRS. E. A. LOY. 

FRUIT DELIGHT 

Line platter with large halved pears. Whip pint of 
cream stiff, sweeten and flavor to taste (sherry preferred). 
Add almonds and dates to the whipped cream, pour over 
the pears. An attractive and delicious dish. 

MRS. JOHN BURTON. 
(Wade Hampton Chapter.) 

COCOANUT SPONGE 

Thicken one pint of milk in which is dissolved three- 
fourth of a cup of sugar. With two tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, cook thoroughly in a vessel set into boiling water. 
W r hen cooked and boiling hot, beat this with the whites of 
three eggs beaten stiff. After standing a few minutes, add 
one cup of grated cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla and turn 
into a mould with grated cocoanut on top. Serve with 
cream, sweetened and flavored with wine or other flavoring. 

MRS. E. A. LOY. 

PRUNE WHIP 

Four whites of eggs, sixteen prunes, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla, pinch of salt. Stew prunes 
without sugar until tender, drain and cut in small peices 
and then beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; with a pinch of 
salt added ; add sugar, flavoring with one-fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla ; fold in the prunes, pour the mixture 
into a buttered baking dish, place in a pan of hot water and 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



72 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Then remove 
the covering to allow the pudding to brown slightly. Serve 
cold in glass cups with whipped cream. 

MRS. E. A. LOY. 

CANTALOUPE WITH ICE CREAM 

A novel way of serving cantaloupe is to cut it into some 
pretty shape and fill with vanilla ice cream. 

MRS. VIVIENNE MARTINEZ. 

ORANGE TRIFLE 

Two teaspoon gelatine, two tablespoon cold water, two 
tablespoon boiling water, two tablespoon sugar, two table- 
spoon orange juice, little grated orange rind, one teaspoon 
lemon juice, one-half cup cream. Soak gelatine in cold 
water, add boiling water, add sugar, juice and rind. Strain, 
stir and cool until a thick syrup. Fold in whipped cream, 
alending thoroughly. Whip until thick enough to hold 
drop. Stiffen in wet molds. 

DIXIE WILLIAMS FARNSWORTH. 

ICE CREAM 

Two and one-half quarts milk, six eggs, two cups of 
sugar, one teaspoon corn starch or flour, one tablespoon of 
flavoring. Put milk on to scald and when hot add the beaten 
eggs and corn starch (mix eggs and corn starch together), 
cook until it begins to thicken. Be sure that corn starch or 
flour is well dissolved. This makes about three quarts. 
MRS. REED, Beverly Hills, Call 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Steam eighteen large prunes until soft, remove pits and 
chop or mash prunes fine ; add one cup pulverized sugar 
and bet. Add a little lemon juice, then fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of five or six eggs. Butter a baking dish, 
turn in mixture heaping lightly, dust with pulverized sugar, 
and bake in a slow oven one-half hour. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Yolks of four eggs well beaten. Stir into one quart 
of milk, boil like custard and set away to cool. Pour a cup 
of warm water over one-half a box of gelatine, when thor- 
oughly soaked stir with the custard while still hot. Next 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



73 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

morning beat the whites to stiff froth, with one-half cup 
sugar and vanilla and stir into custard. Line dish with 
sponge cake or lady fingers. Pour this over and set away 
to cool five or six hours. 



SANDWICHES 

FILLING FOR SANDWICHES 

Chop finely, one cup English walnut meats, blend with 
one-half cup rich salad dressing. Spread between thin 
slices of bread. This amount makes eighteen sandwitches. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES WITH MUSTARD* 

For these sandwiches use graham bread ; spread it first 
with butter, then a thin coating of mustard; next with a 
layer of cottage or pimiento cheese, then add a layer of 
chopped olives mixed with mayonaise. 

MRS. S. A. THORPE. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Delicious chicken sandwiches. Take cold boiled chicken 
or canned chicken, chop fine with yolks of three eggs, a 
little cream, and three spoonsful of melted butter; season 
with salt, black pepper and paprika and a few drops of 
onion juice; spread on thin pieces of white bread, buttered 
and cut in symetrical shapes. 

MRS. S. A. THORPE. 

CAPER SANDWICHES 

Press two hard boiled eggs through sifter, grate one- 
fourth pound of cream cheese, add two tablespoons of 
chopped capers with salt, paprika and mustard to taste. 
Moisten with salad dressing. Spread between thin slices 
of whole wheat bread. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Beat one egg, add one cup grated cheese, butter size 
of an egg, pinch of salt, cayenne, flour. Roll out, cut in 
strips and bake in a moderate oven. 

E. PAGE KERNS. 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



74 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

NUT AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Either Graham or Boston Brown bread can be used 
for these, the nuts must be pounded or rolled with the roll- 
ing pin until they are almost like paste ; then mix them 
with cream cheese which has been moistened with milk and 
seasoned with salt and paprika ; spread this mixture on thin 
pieces of buttered bread. 

MRS. S. R. THORPE. 

CHEESE DISH 

Butter a baking dish, sprinkle grated or finely broken 
cheese thick, then fine pieces of bread, another layer of 
cheese, season well with paprika and salt. Then drop about 
six eggs in these nests. Pour in milk to cover and bake 
twenty minutes. 

NUT AND CHEESE ROAST 

One cuful of grated cheese, one cupful of chopped wal- 
nuts, one cupful of bread crumbs, two tablespoonsful of 
chopped onions, one tablespoonful of butter, juice of one- 
half a lemon, salt and peper. Cook the onion in the butter 
and when it begins to brown pour one-half a cup of water. 
Then add the other ingredients, pour into a pan and bake 
until brown. 

MRS. THORPE. 

PIMIENTO AND CHEESE ROAST 

Two cupsful of cooked lima beans, one-fourth pound 
of cream cheese, three pimientos, chopped, and a cup of 
bread crumbs, season with butter, milk, pepper and salt. 

CHEESE BISCUITS DELICIOUS 

Put in a pan and brown in the oven. 

Two cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking pow- 
der, two heaping tablespoonsful lard, one-half cup of milk, 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Mix these ingredients as for 
biscuits. Roll thin and divide in two parts. Spread grated 
cheese on half of the dough, lay the other half of the dough 
over the cheese, cut out with cutter and bake. 

MRS. S. R. THORPE. 

Golden Crown Butter, Made for Particular People 



Jackson -Eno Rubber Co. 



1010 MAIN STREET 



Phone Main 3656 



P. J. Bachmann 

FINE ARTS 
HIGH-GRADE PICTURE FRAMING 

540 West Washington Street, Los Angeles 

Broadway 657 
Highest Prices Paid for New and Second Hand Auto Parts 

Chas. F. Rice Company 

WRECKERS OF AUTOMOBILES 
1127 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal. 



Compliments 

0//BRESEE "\ 

BROTHERS 
V COMPANY J 



Compliments 

of PC. H. BAKER! 
L SHOE CO. J 



629 SOUTH BROADWAY 

451 SOUTH BROADWAY 

410 SOUTH BROADWAY 

323 SOUTH SPRING STREET 



76 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 



Preserves & Jellies 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

Wash three boxes of strawberries one at a time and 
put in pan with the same amount of sugar and berries. Let 
them stand for a short while then place on a warm stone 
until berries are covered with the juice, then put over good 
fire and boil hard for five minutes, being careful not to 
mash berries. Put in the sun every day for a week and 
stirring them every day. 

RASPBERRY AND APRICOT PRESERVES 
Three boxes of raspberries, fixe pounds apricots, cut 
apricots in halves (do not skin) and stew them a few min- 
utes in one cup of water. Add berries and three-fourth cup 
sugar, one cup fruit. Cook slowly until preserved. 

MRS. SEMPLE. 

GOOSEBERRY CONSERVE 

Four boxes or five pounds of gooseberries, four pounds 
of sugar, one and one-half pounds of raisins, juice and rind 
of four large oranges. Chop rind fine and boil thirty 
minutes. 

MRS. F. O. REED. 

GRAPE AND WALNUT CONSERVE 

Four pounds of white grapes, two pounds of sugar, 
one-half pound chopped walnuts. Take the seeds out of the 
grapes and cook with sugar till thick ; add the chopped nuts 
and let cook for ten minutes. Put in jelly glasses. 

MRS. S. R. THORPE. 

GRAPE FRUIT AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

One large grape fruit, one orange, one lemon. Shave 
the fruit exceedingly thin, taking out the seeds and the 
tough white centers, measure and add three times as much 
water as pulp, allow it to stand for twenty-four hours. Meas- 
ure and add an equal quantity of sugar. Boil together un- 
til of the right consistency to jelly ; put away in glasses. 
This should make ten glasses. 

MRS. THORPE. 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



77 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

RASPBERRY AND CRABAPPLE JELLY 

Cook crabapple and strain; do the same with rasp- 
berries. Then take two-third crabapple and one-third rasp- 
berry juice. Bring to a boil and to every cup of juice add 
one of sugar. Makes a most delicious jelly. 

MRS. W. A. BROWN. 

ORANGE LEMON MARMALADE 

Three lemons, three oranges. Slice both as thin as 
possible, taking out all seeds. To each pound of sliced fruit 
add three pints of cold water and let stand twenty-four 
hours ; then boil three-fourths of an hour and let stand an- 
other twenty-four hours. Then weigh and to every pound 
of fruit add one and one-quarter pounds of sugar. Boil 
until quite clear, so will make jelly about three-quarters 
of an hour. This is an excellent marmalade. 

CARROLL LEY STEWART. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Six or eight large oranges, two large lemons ; peel off 
all pealing, (be careful to not leave any of the white), slice 
thin ; add three quarts of cold water and cook three-fourths 
of an hour ; then add five pints of sugar and cook until it 
jels. 

KATHRYN ENTLER. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Twelve oranges, two lemons, slice all thin, cover with 
water and let stand over night. Drain off water. To one 
quart fruit take two quarts (fresh) water; boil until tender, 
then cool. Drain again. Take equal quantities of fruit and 
sugar ; cook until it thickens. Makes one dozen glasses. 

FIG PRESERVES SPANISH 

One tablespoon of lime to one gallon of water. Soak 
fruit twenty-four hours. Washin three or four cold waters, 
then boil in clear water. Then drop in syrup and cook until 
done. 

FIG NUT JAM 

Eight pounds of figs ; after peeling four pounds of sugar 
moisten sugar enough to make a syrup; when boiling put 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



78 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

in figs. This constantly, cook until clear and of the desired 
consistency. If too stiff before clear add a little water. Add 
two pounds of chopped walnuts and cook fifteen minutes 
Seal hot. 

MRS. KIRBY. 

FIG JAM 

One gallon ripe figs, four cups sugar, juice of one lemon, 
spices to suit taste. Peel figs, then put all ingredients to- 
gether and mash with potato masher until well mixed. Cook 
two hours over slow fire. Put in one pint jars and seal. 

MRS. C. P. OLDHAM. 

JAM 

Six boxes strawberries, one large can grated pineapple, 
one whole orange. Wash, stem and thoroughly crush ber- 
ries, put orange through meat chopper. Mix crushed straw- 
berries, chopped orange and grated pineapple and add six 
or seven, if you like it sweeter, seven cups sugar. Cook 
until thick over a slow fire. 

MRS. W. A. BROWN. 



PICKLES 

MUSTARD PICKLE 

One quart each of small cucumbers, sliced, large cucum- 
bers, sliced, tomatoes, green, onions, small button ; one large 
cauliflower in small pieces, four green peppers cut fine, two 
cups sugar, one cup flour, six tablepsoonfuls mustard, one 
tablespoonful tumeric, two quarts vinegar. Soak vege- 
tables over night in brine, one pint salt to one gallon water, 
drain and cook till half done. Some cook faster than others. 
so soak each kind by itself. Mix dry ingredients and make 
a smooth paste with a little vinegar, add rest of vinegar and 
cook till smooth and thick, stirring often to prevent burn- 
ing. Add vegetables and heat thoroughly. Bottle and seal 
with paraffine. 

UNCOOKED CHILI SAUCE 

One peck ripe tomatoes, two cups chopped onions, two 
cups chopped celery, two cups sugar, one-half cup salt, four 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



79 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

ounces white mustard seed, one teaspoonful powdered 
mace, one teaspoonful black pepper, one teaspoonful pow- 
dered cinnamon, four chopped green peppers, one chopped 
red pepper, three pints vinegar. Chop onions, celery, pep- 
pers, then add tomatoes peeled and chopped and drained, 
and add the rest of the ingredients. Seal. This requires no 
cooking. 

CARROLL LOY STEWART. 

CHILI SAUCE 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, one large green pepper, 
one large onion chopped fine, three tablespoons of sugar, 
one tablespoon of salt, one teaspoon ground cloves, one 
teaspoon ground cinnamon, one cup vinegar, one teaspoon 
ground mustard. Cook all together slowly until done. 

ELIZABETH M. GOULD. 

CHILI SAUCE 

Eighteen large ripe tomatoes, six large ripe onions, six 
large red chili peppers, twelve tablespoons sugar, three 
tablespoons salt, three cups of vinegar. Chop or grind fine, 
add mustard or celery seed, cook hard one hour, remove 
seeds from peppers, use skins only. 

MRS. A. R. MARKHAM. 

UNCOOKED TOMATO PICKLE 

Two gallons of green tomatoes, sliced fine, one gallon 
of cabbage chopped fine, one-quarter gallon of onion, sliced 
fine, one-eighth gal of green sweet pepper, chopped. Salt 
all and leave over night. In the morning press all the liquor 
out and throw away. Take one and one-half quarts of good 
vinegar and one pint of sugar and heat. Add a ten cent- 
package of mixed spices and put in jar to ripen about ten 
days. 

E. A. LOY. 
SPICED CURRANTS 

One quart ripe currants, one and one-half pints sugar, 
one-half cup vinegar, one cup chopped and seeded raisins ; 
one large tablespoon cinnamon, one-half tablespoon cloves. 
Cook until thick, stirring often. 

MRS. JOHN PARK DOUGALL. 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



80 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

WATERMELON RIND PICKLE 

1. Soak twelve hours in lime water (one handful lime 
to one quart water), changing pieces from top to bottom. 

2. Soak in clear water six hours, changing water two 
times. 

3. Scald in alum water. Boil one-half hour in clear 
water. Plunge in cold water. Repeat twice. 

4. Boil in ginger tea one-half hour. To one gallon 
vinegar add two pounds sugar. Cook rind in mixture till a 
straw may be stuck through easily. Spices to taste. 

MRS. P. H. BRADY. 

FIG PICKLE 

The figs used in this recipe are the small honey figs; 
they do not have to be peeled and will keep perfectly with- 
out sealing. Ten pounds of ripe figs, four pounds of sugar, 
one quart of vinegar, one cup of mixed whole spices, cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice and cassia buds, in a muslin bag. Put 
figs in after syrup has come to boil ; boil two hours. 
MRS. FRANKLIN L. MORGAN. 

GREEN TOMATO SAUCE 

Two gallons green tomatoes, chopped, twelve onions, 
chopped, two tablespoons salt, let stand a few hours and 
drain. Add two quarts vinegar, one quart sugar, two table- 
spoons ground mustard, two tablespoons black pepper, one 
tablespoon allspice, one tablespoon cloves. Mix and cook 
until tender. 

MRS. W. A. KEELEY. 

FRENCH PICKLES 

One peck of green tomatoes and six large onions 
chopped fine and mix through them one teacup of salt, let 
stand over night. Next day drain thoroughly, boil in one 
quart of vinegar mixed with two quarts of water for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Then drain this off and take four 
quarters of vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, one-half 
pound of white mustard seed. Spice with ground cinnamon 
and cloves and boil all together for fifteen minutes. 

MRS. F. O. REED. 
PICCALILI 

One gallon green tomatoes, one quart small onions, 
three teaspoons mustard, two teaspoons black pepper, one 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



Sam Seelig Co. 



Trade where 



CASH IS KING 



Metcalf & Ryan 



HEADQUARTERS 




FOR 

INSURANCE 

Fire - Theft - Automobile 

626 South Spring Street 

A 1238 MAIN 1238 




Secure one of our Special 
Rate Orders. They are 
good as gold. 

636 SOUTH BROADWAY 
Orpheum Building 
LOS ANGELES 

ALSO 

SAN FRANCISCO 

OAKLAND 

SACRAMENTO 

SANTA CRUZ 

STOCKTON 

FRESNO 

VISALIA 

BAKERSFIELD 

PASADENA 

POMONA 



81 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

teaspoon ground cloves, one gill white mustard seed, salt to 
suit, one gill celery seed, one-half gill sugar, three pints 
strong vinegar, one small head cabbage. Grind or slice. 
Cook until tender. 

MRS. A. R. MARKHAM. 

SWEET PICKLE 

Two quarts cabbage, one quart green tomatoes, one pint 
onions, one pod green pepper, chop these fine and drain off 
the moisture, one tablespoon mustard seed, one tablespoon 
celery seed, one tablespoon salt, one pint brown sugar, 
pepper, cloves, spice, cinnamon, one-half tablespoon each. 
Cover with vinegar and boil until soft. 

MRS. FANNY WRIGHT. 

SPANISH PICKLES 

Two dozen cucumbers, two large heads cabbage, two 
dozen large onions, three pounds brown sugar, two ounces 
celery seed, two ounces white mustard, ten cents worth of 
tumeric, one-half box Coleman's Mustard. Cover with good 
vinegar and boil thirty minutes and seal in jars. This is fine. 

MRS. B. J. BARNHART. 

HEYDEN SAUCE 

One gallon of cabbage, chopped fine, one gallon of ripe 
tomatoes, chopped, not peeled, one quart of chopped onions, 
four green or red peppers, seed out, chop, mix and add 
three tablespoons of salt. Let stand a few hours and press 
juice out. Add to pickle, four tablespoons of ground 
mustard, two tablespoons of ginger, one tablespoon each of 
cinnamon, cloves, celery seed, three tablespoons of tumeric, 
one and one-half pounds of sugar, one gallon of vinegar. 
Boil one-half hour and can. Measure for spices. 

MRS. W. A. KIRBY. 

TOMATO CHILE 

Eighteen large tomatoes, six large onions, six red pep- 
per, five cup vinegar, three tablespoons salt, eight table- 
spoon sugar. Cook until smooth. This delicious chile will 
keep indefinitely in well sealed jars. 

MRS. ALBERTA P. RANSONE. 

CHOW CHOW 

Cut fine one large head of cabbage, one dozen bell pep- 
pers, one dozen large white onions. Put these with three 

Golden Crown Butter Butter of Uniform Quality 



82 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 



CANDY 



"Sweets for the sweet," the saying may be trite, 
But here are dainties for the appetite ; 
And life, indeed, would be most incomplete, 
Aye, most monotonous without its sweet." 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Four cups granulated sugar, three tablespoons glucose, 
one cup boiling water. Stir thoroughly, put cover on, boil 
rapidly until it will almost candy (not qnite.) Pour it out 
in a large pan so that it will be no more than two inches 
deep. Set in a cool place until it is almost lukewarm. Then 
stir with a wooden paddle until it looks white and dry as if 
it were graining, then put in the hands and knead as you 
would bread, when it will soon be of fine creamy consistency 
and this is just what is desired. To flavor, pour a few drops 
of the extract on the cream and knead a few times. Cover 
the cream with a damp napkin and it will keep in perfect 
condition for some time. Dust molding board with least bit 
of flour, roll this cream on it, then cut in small pieces and 
form into balls. Set on paraffine paper to harden. It is 
better to do this the day before they are dipped in chocolate. 
Put a cake of Baker's chocolate in a double boiler to melt. 
Put into the chocolate a lump of paraffine the size of a 
hickory nut and a piece of butter half as large. Add vanilla. 
Dip creams in this chocolate and set on paraffine paper to 
harden. 

For pink ones, roll into balls and press into the top of 
each a blanched almond, then roll in sugar. 

For chocolate tinted ones knead in some grated choco- 
late. 

For fruit candy Chop up raisins, fig, citron and al- 
monds to suit and knead into some of the plain cream. Then 
roll out a layer of the plain white cream about half an inch 
thick, then put a laver of pink on that, then a layer of fruit, 
then pink again, being careful that it reaches over the side of 
the other layer of pink, then the white again to reach over 
to the other layer of white. Roll in the melted chocolate 

Golden Crown Butter Twice Awarded Gold Medal Over All Competition 



83 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

and lay on paraffine paper to harden. When hard slice across 
as you would a loaf of bread. This is very delicious. 

E. PAGE KERNS. 

CANDIED FIGS 

Make a thin syrup of three cups of sugar and one cup 
of water. Put about two pounds of figs with skins on to 
boil in syrup five minutes, take out and put on greased 
plate, put in sun all day. Next day put figs in same syrup 
and boil for five minutes, put in sun to dry. Third day make 
a thick syrup of the same and boil figs for ten minutes. 
Take out and roll in powdered sugar, dry in sun for the day, 
then pack in a box with plenty of sugar on each layer. Press 
down good, with waxed paper on top. They are better if 
they stand for a month or longer. Same recipe can be used 
for oranges and other fruit. 

GEORGIE G. OLDHAM. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one ounce of melted butter, mix molasses, 
butter and brown sugar together, boil without stirring until 
it hardens when dropped in cold water, add soda, pour on 
buttered platter, pull or cut in sticks. 

MINNIE G. NEIGHBOURS. 

Nut candy can be made by same recipe, adding peanuts 
or walnut meats. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

Two cups granulated sugar, two-thirds cup water, two 
tablespoons gelatine dissolved in eight tablespoons water. 
Boil the syrup until it thickens then pour into a bowl, add 
the dissolved gelatine and beat constantly until the mixture 
is very thick. Add vanilla flavoring and put on a board 
dusted with powdered sugar, also dust the top with sugar. 
When cold cut into little squares and roll each one in sugar. 
For the pink marshmallows use the fruit coloring and straw- 
berry flavoring. Beat first with wire spoon egg beater then 
with a spoon. 

E. PAGE KERNS. 

RUSSIAN NOUGAT 

Two cups white sugar, one-half cup corn syrup, one- 
fourth cup water. Cook until it hardens when tested in 

For Best Results Use Golden Crown Butter 



84 

Violet Brand Shortening the Shortest Shortening by a Long Way 

water. Beat this into the beaten whites of two eggs. Add 
one pound nuts. Flavor. 

PENOUCHE 

Three cups brown sugar, one cup milk, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, cook, stir while cooking, flavor, add chopped nuts. 

FUDGE 

Two cups white sugar, two squares Baker's chocolate, 
cut fine, two tablespoons butter, one cup milk, cinnamon. 
Beat all for a minute or so, then put on to boil. Cook until 
it hardens in water. Put in nuts and beat one way, until 
it thickens, then pour into buttered plate and cut in squares. 

E. PAGE KERNS. 

AFTER-DINNER MINTS 

Two cups of sugar and one cup of water, boil in granite 
sauce pan until it forms a soft ball when tested in cold 
water. Take from fire and let cool until "milk warm," then 
begin to stir or beat with wooden fork or spoon until it 
creams. Then add fruit coloring, green or pink, and two 
drops of the essence of peppermint. Mould and shape with 
the hands into small "wafers." 

MRS. H. E. MORE. 

PRESERVED ORANGE PEEL 

Weigh oranges whole and allow pound for pound of 
sugar ; peel the oranges neatly and cut the rind into narrow 
shreds ; boil until tender, changing the water twice, and 
replenishing with hot from the kettle ; squeeze the strained 
juice of the oranges over sugar, let this boil, put in the 
shreds and boil twenty minutes. 

MRS. E. G. ROBINSON. 



ACCURACY IN TELEPHONING 
Is just as important as accuracy in cooking. 

Ladies using these recipes should always telephone their grocery 
orders over the 

HOME TELEPHONE 

CONTRACT DEPTMENT 

Fone No. F 98 716 South Olive Street 

Los Angeles 

"THE GASOLINE WITH THE PUNCH!" 

PUENTE OIL CO. 

Oldest Producers and Refiners on the Coast 

APEX MOTOR OILS 
AJAX GREASES 

M 3160 829 Title Insurance Building F 4627 

EVERY RECEIPT IN THIS BOOK 

WILL RESULT A LITTLE BETTER 

IF DONE ELECTRICALLY 

ON THE ELECTRIC RANGE 

Southern California Edison Co. 

120 East Fourth Street 



H 



III 



Illllll 



iillmiMiuii 




86 



BEVERAGES 

FRUIT PUNCH 

To the strained juice of ten lemons and six oranges, 
add one can of sliced pineapple cut into small dice ; one can 
of black cherries ; six bananas sliced very thin ; one-half 
pound of red candied cherries, two lemons cut in thin circles. 
Mix, and sweeten to taste with a stock made as for boiled 
icing and perfectly cold. Fifteen minutes before serving 
fill bowl half full of crushed ice, pour in the punch, add one 
bottle of Apollinaris water. Serve in punch glasses. 

MRS. ALBERTA RANSOME. 

SOUTHERN MINT TEA 

Two teaspoons tea, pinch of cayenne, handful mint, one 
pint boiling water. Let stand fifteen minutes and strain. 
Add juice of two or three lemons and one cup of sugar. Ice. 

MRS. E. H. MULLEN. 

MINT JULEP 

In a tall glass place a thick slice of lemon, one cube 
sugar and two tablespoonsful best Bourbon whiskey and 
several sprigs of mint. Fill glass with finely shaved ice and 
stir without touching the outside of glass with fingers till 
the glass is thoroughly frosted. Serve with straws and 
garnish with sprigs of fresh mint. 

FLORENCE BRADY. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH 

Squeeze the juice from one-half dozen lemons and one- 
fourth dozen limes. Add three-fourths of a tumblerful of 
sugar, one wineglassful of rum and one bottle champagne. 

COFFEE 

One cup of ground coffee, white of an egg and shell ; 
one quart of fresh boiling water; one-half cup of cold water 
to settle. Stir up the coffee and egg and about one table- 
spoonful of cold water. Pour on to this the boiling water, 
stir as it boils. Boil for about ten minutes, add the one-half 
cup cold water to settle, strain into the coffee pot for the 
table. 



87 
DRIPPED COFFEE 

Put three ounces of finely ground coffee in the upper 
division of your drip pot, and pour over this a little boiling 
water at a time until one quart has been used, and having it 
where it will be perfectly hot without boiling. If not strong 
enough it will be necessary to let it drip through the second 
time. Serve with boiling milk about one-half cupful of 
dripped coffee to one-half cup of boiling milk, or a little 
more coffee. 

TEA 

"Except the water boiling be, 
Filling the teapot spoils the tea." 

One heaping teaspoonful of green tea is sufficient for 
two cups. The water for making should be boiled quickly. 
The china or stone teapot scalded, a teacup of boiling water 
poured upon the tea and set near the fire to draw. In about 
ten minutes pour on another cupful of boiling water. This 
is strong ; if wanted weaker add more boiling water. 

ICED TEA 

It is better to put the tea in cold water in a china 
pitcher and set in the ice box the morning of the day it is to 
be used for supper. The flavor is better and milder than if 
steeped in hot water. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL 

Cover the berries with cold water and let boil a few 
minutes until done. Then strain, and to every pint of juice 
add one pound of granulated sugar. Put back on the fire. 
Tie up a little cinnamon, allspice and cloves in a thin muslin 
bag, and let boil with the juice until the latter is a pretty 
thick syrup, then take off, and when it is thoroughly cold 
add one-third as much good brandy or whisky as you have 
syrup. It is not necessary to seal it. 



90 

One full teaspoonful of cream tartar to one quart of 
flour. 

One pinch of salt, one salt spoonful. 
Two wine glassfuls, one gill. 
Two gills, one teacupful. 



The success of a recipe is often due to exactness in 
measuring materials as well as care with which directions 
are followed. 

60 drops .... 1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons ... 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons J4 CU P 
5^3 tablespoons . . . . % cup 

8 tablespoons . . . . l /2 cup 
1 cup */2 pint 

To measure flour, meal and similar ingredients, sift 
lightly and then measure. 

To measure a spoonful of dry material lift the spoon, 
heaping then level to measure a half spoonful, then divide 
in halves lengthwise. 

A kitchen cup holds a half pint and must be used to 
measure everything calling for cupfuls. Recipes are never 
written for the use of ordinary tea or coffee cups. 

Halves, quarters or thirds of a cup should be measured 
with a tablespoon according to above table. 

A "rounding teaspoon" means two level teaspoons. 

A "heaping teaspoon" means three level teaspoons. 

FOR BURNS 

Grate Irish potatoes and put over the burn, change fre- 
quently. A splendid remedy. Cooling and healing. 

MINNIE G. NEIGHBOURS 



Cooper, Coate & Casey 
Dry Goods Co. 



SEVENTH AND LOS ANGELES STS. 



Broadway 2448 F 2448 



PHOTOGRAPHER 

811 South Hill St. 

"pjotos ulljat 



Official Photograper for 
Burbank Theatre 




INDEX 



Pies 5 

Puddings 9 

Cake 14 

Soups 26 

Fish 28 

Oysters 33 

Poultry and Game 36 

Meats 41 

Salads 47 

Vegetables 53 

Bread 59 

Cookies 64 

Dessert Dishes 69 

Sandwiches 73 

Preserves and Jellies 76 

Pickles 78 

Candy 82 

Beverages ^ 86 

Hints 88 

Table of Measures . _ _ _89 



631 SO. SPRING ST. 



