■lO 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

iVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/foodvalueswhatthOOmckiuoft 






FOOD VALUES 



WHAT THEY ARE, AND HOW TO 
CALCULATE THEM 



Bv 



MARGARET. McKILLOP, M.A. (Dubl.) - 

Fellow of King's College for Women, University of 
London; Joint -Author of Economics, Descriptive 
and Theoretical. 




LONDON 

GEORGE ROUTLEDGE & SONS, LIMITED 
New York : E. P. BUTTON & CO 

1916 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Preface iii 



Chapter I. Introduction 



Chapter ll. Our Need of Food. How the Different 

Kinds Satisfy it . . . . .12 

Chapter III. The Nutritiv]^ Requirements op the 

Average Man 25 

Chapter IV. The Nutritive Requirements of Women 

AND Children 39 

Chapter V. Tables I-XXXV. Analyses of Food 47 

Chapter VI. The Use of the Tables. Analyses of Made 
Dishes, of Daily Diets, and of Weekly 
Consumptions ..... 94 

Chapter VII. Miscellaneous Calculations, Calories, 

Nutritive Ratio. Absorption of Water 126 



PREFACE 

This little book has been compiled for the use of those 
students of diet who wish to undertake quite seriously 
the consideration of food values, and the problems 
involved in their investigation. I beheve, therefore, 
that it will be welcome to teachers and demonstrators in 
cookery ; to caterers, and to all people responsible for 
the daily menu in colleges, schools and other institutions ; 
also to social workers, especially those who are working 
on Unes similar to those in Kowntree's well-known 
Poverty and other works. Also, I hope that it will be 
used by many mod'ern housekeepers, who are now 
well aware that scientific results and scientific method 
can be used very extensively even in housekeeping on a 
small-scale. 

It is not a "War Book. " The large number of useful 
publications on food which have been issued since the 
War devote much attention to the changes of price, 
which now vary from month to month, even from week 
to week, and can hardly be foreseen. Tables involving 
questions of price have therefore at present no pennanent 
value ; each problem of the kind can be solved only for 
the moment. The information which has been collected 
here has suffered no modification from the great world 



iv PREFACE 

change. Apart from any errors of my own which may 
have occurred, the statements will need revision only, 
in the first place, as the investigation of the scientific 
principles of diet advances, and, in the^econd place, as 
the processes by which food is analysed are improved. 

At present the words " food values " are used by 
many people very loosely. They do not reahze that 
they are referring to figures obtained by careful com- 
putations and comparisons, and giving complex in- 
formation about each kind of food, but are content with 
vague statements about " much " and " more '' nourish- 
ment in this or that food. They speak of the " food 
value of oatmeal " as if quite miaware that a food-stuff 
of the kind has different " values " under different 
headings, and can be judged, and compared with other 
.foods, under each of them. There is no such thing as 
food value in the singular number. And when the 
different values of a certain quantity of oatmeal are 
known, we have yet to ask into how much porridge it is 
to be converted ; and, further, to compare this with 
the amount of food needed at the moment by the persons 
who are to consume the porridge. 

At present the inquirer who desires all this informa- 
tion must have recourse to somewhat costly books on 
dietetics and on the analysis of food ; and it is then 
left to her to do some percentage calculations, involving 
decimals, to apply the facts she has gleaned to the particu- 
lar problems of diet brought under her notice. This 
means a large expenditure of time and trouble on the 



PREFACE V 

part of a busy woman while practising or teaching house- 
keeping, or visiting working-class homes. She may 
not have access to the books of refeierce ; she may te 
doubtful of her unaided powers of calculation. Most 
often the solution of her problem in actual terms of 
food values is indefinitely postponed, and she is content 
to go on with hazy generalizations. 

I have therefore endeavoured to collect in a small 
handbook as much information as possible on the 
requisites in diet and the composition of ordinary food- 
stuffs, for the most part in condensed and tabular form. 
I have then given numerous examples of the ways in 
which calculations are made from the tables, assuming 
that some at any rate of my readers are shy of decimals, 
and even need a httle help with arithmetical problems. 

The sources of the information are as a rule indicated 
throughout the book. But I should hke to express here 
my special obhgations to Dr. Eobert Hutchison, whose 
book on Food and Dietetics is an invaluable help to all 
students ; and to Prof. Graham Lusk for his two books 
on Nutrition. The whole compilation would still be of 
little value had I not possessed some, and had access 
to others, of the valuable American Farmers' Bulletins 
quoted so frequently, particularly those called Eggs 
and Their Use as Food, or by similar titles. These are 
widely circulated in the United States ; they are simply 
written for private domestic use, though they includ'e 
very full tables. The English housekeeper's task of 
providing suitable food would be much easier if we had 



vi PREFACE 

any literature resembling these cheap Government 
pubhcations which are part of the State's activity in 
America.. Here it has been left to a private society — 
the Food Reform Association — to initiate the publica- 
tion of little pamphlets which aim at giving somewhat 
similar information, though without the tables. 

Dr. I. Smedley Maclean has been kind enough to read 
my proofs and to make some valuable suggestions. 

M. McKiLLOP. 



BOOKS FOR REFERENCE 



1. General Treatises on Diet. 

Bryce, Dr. A. Modern Theories of Diet. Arnold* 

75. Qd. net. 
Bryce, Dr. A. Dietetics (The People's Books). Jack. 

Qd. net. 
Hutchison, Dr. R. Food and Principles of Dietetics. 

Arnold. I65. 
Locke. Food Values. Appleton, N. Y. and London. 5s. 
Lusk, G. Science of Nutrition. Saunders, Philadelphia. 

125. 

Lusk, G. Physiological Basis of Nutrition. Milford. 

25. Qd. 
Watson, Chalmers. Food and Feeding in Health and Disease. 

Oliver and Boyd, Edin. IO5. M. 
Watson, Chalmers. Booh of Diet. 2s. 

2. Low Protein Diets. 

Chittenden, R. H. Physiological Economy in Nutrition. 

Stokes & Co., N.Y. 
Chittenden, R. H. Nutrition of Man. (U.S.A.). Heine- 

mann. 145. 
Hindhede, M. Protein and Nutrition. Ewart Seymour 

75. U. 

3. Analysis of Food. 

Blyth Wynter. Foods, their Composition and Analysis, 
Griffin. I65, 

Tibbies, W. Foods : their Origin, Composition and Manu- 
facture. Bailliere, Tindall & Cox. I85. 

Wiley, H. W. Foods and their Adidteration (U.S.A.). 
Churchill. 2l5. 



viii BOOKS FOR REFERENCE 

4. General Physiology. 

Bayliss, W. Principles of Physiology. 
Halliburton, W. Handbook of Physiology. Murray. 155. 
Hutchison. Applied Physiology. Arnold. Is. 6rf. net. 
Starling. Principles of Physiology. Churchill 21^. 

5. MlSCELLAJl^EOIJS. 

The Farmers' Bulletins, Reports and Year Books, pub- 
lished by the Agricultural Department of the United States 
government, contain much information on food not to be 
obtained elsewhere. They are for sale by the Superinten- 
dent of Documents, Washangton ; the Bulletins are usually 
5 cents, each, but many of the earlier ones are out of print. 
A full list can be obtained by application to the Superin- 
tendent. 

Rowntree, B. S. Poverty : a Study of Town Life. Macmillan. 

2s. 6rf. 
Rowntree, B. S. and Kendall, M. How the Agricidtural 

Labourer Lives. Macmillan. 2^. Qd. 
Paton, D. N. Dunlop, J.C. Inglis, E. M. Study of the 

Diet of the Labouring Classes in Edinburgh. Schulze, 

Edin. 2s. M. 
Paton, D. N. Dunlop, J. C. Inglis, E. :\I. Study of the 

Diet of the Labouring Classes for Glasgow. 
Germany^s Food, Can it Last. The Case Presented by German 

Experts. Tr. by J. Russell Wells. Univ. of London. 

Press. 2s. 



CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION 

Now that Economy has become a national watchword, 
and is Hkely to remain so for many years to come, there 
is no subject on which people more ardently desire 
information than on our actual needs in food. For a 
multitude of reasons we are all about to reduce our 
expenditure on food. This will be done in many cases 
by reducing the actual quantity, a step which may be 
entirely judicious ; but it will be done much more 
usually by important changes in the diet. How can we 
be sure that we are not running the risk of being under- 
fed or wrongly fed ? How are we to choose among the 
many suggestions made, the many contradictory state- 
ments as to the food actually necessary to us, its 
nature and its quantity ? Any housekeeper at this 
moment can obtain innumerable recipes, of which the 
chief object is to exhibit a great decrease in the cost of 
each new dish, compared with the cost of the old dishes 
in the old recipes. She can obtain an equally large 
number of " hints," which indicate how materials 
formerly thrown away can be used to contribute to the 
family sustenance. Occasionally estimates are given of 
the amount " saved " by the use of these materials, or 
the quantity of nutriment available in each new dish, 
but these numerical estimates are compiled for the pur- 
pose of recommending the hint or the recipe ; they do 

1 < B 



2 FOOD VALUES 

not form part of any scheme of adequate diet per person 
per day ; they do Uttle to answer the question — How 
can I be sure that the food I am offering daily to the 
people for whom I am responsibfe is right, in nature 
and in quantity, to keep up their health and strength 
— those national assets which have to be conserved and 
increased as fully as possible ? 

This handbook has been compiled to answer that 
question ; not so much directly by giving model diets, 
as by putting readers in possession of the chief facts 
known at present about food and diet, in a condensed 
accessible form, and, as far as possible, by means of 
arithmetical data. It will be shown how these data can 
be used in working out problems for the diet of individ- 
uals and of small communities. Readers will be able 
by use of the Tables to answer their own questions. In 
particular they will be able to discover whether a given 
plan of feeding certain people, reviewed weekly or daily, 
will be approximately a sound one. 

It will always be necessary, however, for them to use 
their own judgment finally in adopting a standard of 
sufficiency in diet, for as yet there is no such standard to 
which unanimous adherence is given. This book will 
aim, further, at indicating clearly what statements or 
figures are generally accepted, what other statements 
and figures are still under discussion, and will aim also 
at guiding readers to avail themselves of any new 
information that may be published. 

Information of the kind is spoken of commonly as 
the knowledge of food values — a rather vague term. 
Long before the wax there was a pious aspiration that 
housekeepers (and above all housekeepers in the making 
— girls still at school) should know about food values. 



INTRODUCTION 3 

The idea in the minds of people, who often used this 
expression rather loosely, seemed to be something of this 
kind : — It is obvious that a pound of beefsteak contains 
more nourishment than a pound of strawberries. There- 
fore all foods can be arranged in order of merit according 
to the amount of nourishment they contain. 

But the inquirer, looking for such a list of food values, 
finds the quest full of difficulties. A human being re- 
quires different kinds of nourishment.- The physiologist 
tabulates his requirements under the three main headings 
of proteins, fats and carbohydrates, and states these 
requirements in grams. We have to convert these 
figures into ounces or pints of ordinary food ; and only 
in the case of the fats is the arithmetical process at all 
simple. Then we find it necessary to follow the points 
of a scientific discussion as to how far these three forms 
of food can " replace " or " spare " one another, just 
as we have taken the trouble to keep them carefully 
apart. It seems that their relation to each other must 
be settled before we can arrive at the knowledge of how 
much of each kind an ordinary person needs. 

Postponing the consideration of this relation to the 
next chapter, we will describe here briefly the three 
kinds of food distinguished by the physiologist. 

Fats are certainly more familiar to us than 
the other two. We think first of the fat from 
beef, mutton, pork or bacon ; then of butter and mar- 
garine ; next perhaps of ohve oil, the only vegetable fat 
we take separately as an article of diet, and lastly of 
the various nut butters and vegetable margarines now 
to be obtained. These last forms of fat have until 
recently been used chiefly by vegetarians, but now 
the fact that they cost less than the others is recom- 



4 FOOD VALUES 

mending them to every one's notice. We do not find 
it difficult to believe that fats form a separate category 
in food-stuffs. This is partly because we are accustomed 
to buy and to use them separately. Fats and oils are 
found naturally, however, distributed in minute quan- 
tities through many animal and vegetable foods ; as 
for instance in milk, cheese, nuts, yolk of egg, and even 
in lean meat. We look for fat in animal rather than in 
vegetable food, in which it occurs to a less extent. 

The name carbohydrate signifies to the 
Carbohydrates. , . ^ i r i i i 

chemist a compound of carbon, hydrogen 

and oxygen, with the two last elements in the same pro- 
portion as that in which they occur in water. Fats 
contain the same three elements, but less oxygen in 
proportion than the carbohydrates. The name car- 
bohydrates is still used in treatises on diet, but it is in 
one way unfortunate, because certain compounds which 
come under the chemist's definition of carbohydrate 
(notably cellulose) are very little use to us as food. The 
food-stuff's classified as carbohydrates are chiefly the 
sugars, and starch, which is closely connected with 
sugar. They are now often termed the saccharoses or 
saccharides. 

There is more than one kind of sugar. Beet and cane 
sugar show no appreciable difference in composition at 
all ; but the sugar in^fresh^fruit^( found also in small 
lumps in dried fruit such as raisins) is different from cane 
sugar ; so is the sugar occurring in milk. There are 
yet other kinds. Our chief source of all sugars is from 
plants, which are continually manufacturing it from their 
mineral food, gaseous and liquid. But they primarily 
manufacture starch, and store this in seeds, roots, stems 
or tubers, because it is insoluble in water. It is con- 



INTRODUCTION 5 

verted into sugar when it must travel to various parts 
ot the plant, and must be soluble in water to be carried 
from one place to another. This process of converting 
starch into sugar is also effected when the animal or 
human being digests starch ; but the converse process 
of changing sugar into starch, necessary to the plant, is 
not a part of our digestive^ activity, which must always 
aim at making matters soluble. 

Briefly, we may take our carbohydrate food as starch 
or as sugar, only in the former condition it gives more 
work to the digestive organs. But it is more palatable to 
most people, especially to take in quantity, prob^ably 
because of the absence of very definite taste. It is the 
chief constituent, by weight, of the soUd portion of 
bread, potatoes, oatmeal, rice and peas. Practically 
all our starch comes from vegetables, also all our sugar, 
except that in milk, and in honey — if we count honey as 
an animal product. Vegetable foods bring, in addition, 
some quantity of cellulose, varying according to the 
special preparation given to the food, and also with the 
part of the plant selected. Green vegetables, and most 
fruits, especially those with small seeds, contain a good 
deal ; whereas a substance like white flour contains 
very little. Cellulose is the substance of which the 
plant cell- wall is made ; one sees it in almost pure form 
in white paper or in cork. Although it is a carbohydrate 
from the chemist's point of view (and also formally 
included under the term saccharide because it is rela- 
ted to starch), it is usually indigestible, and is finally 
expelled from the system. The cells of animal tissues 
have no cell-wall, and therefore animal food contains 
no cellulose. It also contains as a rule no starch. 

fc'ee note 2, p. 57. 



6 FOOD VALUES 

Starch, when strongly heated, is converted into 
dextrin, another carbohydrate, which is digestible, 
being soluble in water, whereas cellulose is completely 
insoluble. We are familiar with dextrin as it gives the 
brown colour to the crust of a loaf. In the pure state 
its solution in water forms gum or mucilage. 

It is more difficult to realize the nature of 
a protein than that of any other constituent 
of food. The nearest substance to pure protein that we 
are likely to see among ordinary foods is the coagulated 
curd of milk, out of which cheese is made. This consists 
chiefly of the protein called casein. Purified from other 
material, and then quite tasteless, it forms the basis of 
medicine foods such as Plasmon and Protose. But we 
need not think of protein in these rather remote and ex- 
pensive forms. The chief part of muscle, which we know 
as lean meat, is a protein called myosin. The part of 
flour which is not starch, known as gluten, consists of 
at least two proteins — glutenin and gliadin. White of 
egg, often known as albumin, is almost pure protein. 
Peas and beans contain legumin, which is very like 
myosin. 

It is for the chemist to tell us how these proteins 
actually differ from one another, and their composition 
is still under investigation. Each protein may be said 
to be a complex combination of several chemical com- 
pounds allied to each other. All of these are com- 
posed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, usually 
sulphur, and occasionally phosphorus as well. Pro- 
fessor Lusk has suggested, in a very interesting lecture,^ 
that a single protein consists of a group of these com- 
pounds, somewhat as a word consists of letters ; and, ' 
^ Lusk. The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. 



INTRODUCTION 7 

like letters, the compounds can be combined to give 
many different proteins, like different words. It is now 
being discovered by experiment which proteins are more 
valuable to us than others. But it is quite certain that 
the best diet should contain a great variety of proteins, 
so that, if we carry on Lusk's simile, we should have 
enough words to make sure that the entire alphabet is 
represented. Meanwhile, for most purposes all pro- 
teins are counted together, and the " protein content " 
of a food given as one figure, without distinguishing 
which are more, which less valuable. 
The dietetic The view of our food taken by a dietetician 
view of food. j^[\\ become clearer to us if we compare it 
with the view of a mistress ordering a dinner, and that 
of a cook preparing it. Let us say that the mistress 
orders a stereotyped pre-war meal of this kind : — 
Boiled cod and anchovy sauce, roast chickens with 
forcemeat and bread sauce, potatoes, sea-kale, apple 
pie, custard, and a cheese dish as savoury. She surveys 
her dinner under its separate courses by way of classifi- 
cation. The cook passes it in mental review, and, after 
noting the simple items to be obtained, such as the fish, 
the chickens, the sea-kale, the potatoes, apples and 
cheese, she analyses further something after this manner. 
— Butter wanted for three sauces (anchovy sauce, bread 
sauce, white sauce for sea-kale), also for the pastry un- 
less some other fat is used, a httle also for the cheese 
pudding. Suet for the forcemeat. Milk for the sauces, 
and for the custard. Bread for forcemeat and bread 
sauce, also for some toast under the sea-kale. Flour 
for two sauces, f or-the pastry, and for the cheese ; pudding. 
Eggs for forcemeat, custard and cheese pudding ; sugar 
for apple-pie and custard. Now how much is wanted 



8 FOOD VALUES 

of each altogether ? — This analysis of her review is not 
intended to be ex:haustive, but only to show that she 
surveys the proposed meal under different categories 
from those of her mistress. Next comes the dietetician, 
the person interested in the meal as providing proper 
diet, and rearranges every dish suggested under the fresh 
headings of proteins, fats, carbohydrates. He will 
probably start with the cook's analysis, and convert 
that into his own headings. How exactly to do this is 
shown in the Tables in this book. The method followed 
is, obviously, to split up again meat, vegetables, milk, 
flour, eggs and' so on into their constituents as he sees 
them, and estimate the whole quantity of these constitu- 
ents in the meal. 

Lastly, a chemist might take the analysis just made by 
the dietetician, and rearrange proteins, fats and carbo- 
hydrates under the headings of the chemical elements. 
He would split up proteins into carbon, hydrogen, 
oxygen, nitrogen ; fats and carbohydrates into carbon, 
hydrogen and oxygen, indicating also the small quan- 
tities of other elements which appear in the foods. His 
chief concern would be to estimate the carbon and the 
nitrogen supplied in the meal. 

Practical people, who wish to provide and prepare 
meals with some judgment as to their dietetic value, 
need the power of surveying the meals according to all 
these categories in turn, although to follow out the 
chemist's at all thoroughly needs considerable knowledge 
of physics and physiology as well as of chemistry. They 
must realize that the problem is a scientific one, and lays 
many " ologies " under contribution. The last one to 
be remembered is Psychology, as important perhaps in 
feeding'people as if is in teaching them. It is one thing 



INTRODUCTION 9 

to provide six people with a dish costing ^d., in the man- 
ner of Mrs. Beeton and all worthy cooks after her ; it is 
quite another to make sure that they are each going 
to consume their penny portion. " How if he will not ? " 
is the final problem of the home caterer. 

In concluding these introductory remarks it is 
necessary to remind the reader that the scientific study 
of nutrition, particularly by means of experiment, is a 
comparatively new one, and that much work has still 
to be done. Every year new discoveries are being made, 
and activity in research of the kind is Ukely to be pro- 
moted rather than discouraged at present. In conse- 
quence, although so much work of inestimable value 
has been done, every investigator naturally has still 
an open mind, and is ready to modify his first conclusions 
if there is sufficient evidence for him to do so. There- 
fore students of our requirements in food must keep 
their minds also open ; and keep their eyes open to 
acquire new information from reliable sources. Mean- 
while many a student may be a woman of action ; she 
has to be feeding people while questions hang in the 
physiologist's and chemist's balance. She must act on 
the present stock of assured knowledge. 

Unfortunately many of the small pamphlets on food 
are written to recommend or vindicate some theory of 
diet, or to prove to the hilt the ease with which ex- 
penditure on food can be halved, especially by dispens- 
ing with certain items. Any treatises containing abso- 
lute dogmatic statements about the value of foods, with 
conclusions drawn from them after the manner of a 
mathematical demonstration, are to be distrusted. A 
writer with some contention to support is quite likely 
to have seized favourable figures without inquiring too 



10 FOOD VALUES 

closely into them, and may give some that have been 
superseded, or some that are not yet fully estabhshed. 

Figures given for the analyses of different food stuffs 
are usually averages from a large number of samples. 
An actual piece of bread or meat may differ quite notice- 
ably from the average. We cannot therefore work out 
our arithmetical additions with an accuracy similar to 
2 + 3=5. 

In the same way if figures are given for the require- 
ments in food of an average man of known weight and 
occupation, a particular man of the type may be found 
who will do better on a somewhat different amoimt. 
We must all learn to work by averages if we are to make 
use of any tabulated and generalized information on 
nutrition, and learn to make afterwards some judicious 
allowance for slight differences in the actual problems 
before us. We shall find ourselves prone to each of the 
two opposed mistakes in turn, if we are not watchful ; one 
the exaggeration of individual differences, the other the 
adoption of the average figures in a hard and fast way, 
as if they came from the multiplication table. For 
instance, people usually make far too much of depart- 
ures from the average in personal traits about eating ; 
whereas, if they see a figure giving the average percentage 
of fat in cheese, they are apt to pigeonhole their in- 
formation in their brains as if it were applicable to any 
cheese whatever. 

NOTE 

It may possibly be of use to add a note on the use of percentage 
numbers, merely as a matter of arithmetic. Suppose it is desired 
to ascertain the composition of a sample of food. Small portions 
of it may be assigned to different workers at the same time, or 
used by the same person at different times, and chemical methods 
used to find the amounts of protein, fat, sugar, etc., in each 



INTRODUCTION 11 

piece. As the original weights were different, these separate 

amounts will come out different. How can they be compared, 

and combined into one average result ? We get an average 

by adding together strictly comparable results, and dividing 

the sum by the number of results. But these results are not 

comparable as they stand. We might call the original weight 

in each case 1, and say j or |^ was fat, and so on. But fractions 

are very awkward, because they are difficult to add together ; 

that is, vulgar fractions are. Decimal fractions are much 

more easily added. But if we use them, i.e. tenths, hundredths, 

and so on, we might as well take 100 as the original weight 

instead of unity. Then we shall have whole numbers in 

place of tenths and hundredths, and begin decimals only for 

thousandths. 

To take an example, of two pieces of meat one contained ^, 

the other ^ of fat. In decimals these figures would be -25, 

•16*7. In percentages they would be 25, 16-7. The average 

41-7 
of the two would be — „— = 20*85. The last figure (5) is 

the ten thousandth part of the sample of meat, and therefore 
might be neglected unless very large quantities were in question. 
Percentage analyses are often given only to one decimal place, 
and that will be enough for computations on a small scale. 

Some of us, who had never been taught to use decimals in 
practical life, used to be afraid of them because of their appar- 
ently ungovernable propensity to " go on for ever." No prac- 
tical investigator has any time, nor has he occasion, to go with 
them. He is aware that each succeeding figure has, by its place, 
only 15 of the importance of the one before it, and that therefore 
the figures soon cease to affect practical issues. 



CHAPTER II 

OUR NEED OF 'FOOD. HOW THE DIFFERENT 
KINDS SATISFY IT 

Food com- The food given to a human being is very 
pared to fuel, often compared to the fuel supplied to a 
steam engine ; an analogy giving direct sanction to the 
slang expression ' stoking,' for partaking of a meal. 
But there is a little confusion in the comparison. It is 
rightly believed that food keeps us warm, it creates 
heat in us in some way. Now, though fuel creates 
heat in a steam-engine, it is not put there for that 
purpose, but in order that the engine should perform 
work. We know it is the heat that produces the work. 
The human body needs first to be heated, or rather 
warmed ; and secondly to be able to do work. There 
is a large amount needed to keep up the proper body 
temperature, and a variable extra amount according 
to the exertions made by the person. The work done 
by the body is not only that which the individual 
chooses to do, such as walking, lifting or otherwise using 
the muscles ; it includes also involuntary exertions 
that are always going on ; such as the beating of the 
heart to propel blood, the expansion of the lungs, action 
on the food during digestion, and so on. 

An engine also may be put to do work of various 
kinds. But all kinds are aUke in this, that each is 

12 



OUR NEED OF FOOD 13 

produced by the heat in the engine/and that this heat 
comes from burning fuel. Is our food then burned hke 
fuel ? The process is practically the same chemically ; 
food is, finally, for the most part oxidized by the oxygen 
taken into the lungs ; only the action is more gradual, 
and sets free heat at a slower rate. 

Food mea- ^^ ^^ most important to realize that heat 
sured in terms gives power of doing work. This power is 
of neat. known as energy. There are many ways of 

measuring energy, as it can always be estimated in 
terms of the work done, of whatever kind that may be. 
But another way is to measure it in terms of the heat 
taken to produce it. This last way is by far the best 
for the estimation of the needs of the body. If w^e ex- 
press them all in terms of heat it does not matter that 
part of these needs are for heat itself and part for energy 
produced by heat. 

T»,« .«*o But how do we measure heat ? In 
Tne mea- 
surement of ordinary Hfe we do not, as a rule, measure 

^**' it at all ; we measure temperature. We 

speak of 60° Fah. as the temperature of a room, or of 

212° Fah. as that of boihng water. However, we know 

quite certainly that one quart of boiling water holds more 

heat than one pint, without putting them to a test, 

such as finding which would warm a bed best, when 

placed in a hot-water bottle. Probably we can also 

reahze without proof that a quart should contain twice 

as much heat as a pint at the same temperature. 

Further, we can comprehend that a quart of water 

which is 1G0° Fahr. warmer than a bed ought to warm 

it about twice as well as a quart only 50° Fahr. warmer. 

If we may be allowed to assume that these relations 

hold, and can be proved mathematically accurate, we 



r. 



14 FOOD VALUES 

shall understand that heat can be measured by the 
amount taken to heat a certain quantity of water a 
certain number of degrees. This method is rather 
more convenient than expressing it in the reverse way, 
as we did in speaking of the use of a hot-water bottle. 
Then we were considering the heat given ofE by a quantity 
of water when cooled through a number of degrees. 
This is exactly equivalent to the heat originally taken 
to raise the water to that degree of heat. For accurate 
definition the weight of water, not the volume, is fixed, 
and usually the temperature is measured in degrees 
Centigrade, not Fahrenheit. 

A convenient unit for measuring heat is the amount 
taken to heat one kilogram of water one degree C. ; 
or, more precisely, to heat it from 0° to 1° C. This unit 
is called a Calorie, but with a capital letter, because it 
is known to scientific men as the large Calorie. The 
small .calorie is the unit used in delicate heat experi- 
ments with small quantities. It heats only one gram 
of water through one degree, not a kilogram, which is 
1,000 grams (about 2 J lbs). The volume of a kilogram 
of water is about If pints. A Calorie has also been 
roughly defined for practical people as the heat which 
will raise 1 Ih. of water 4° Fahr. 

Our requirements in food can then be 
stated in Calories or in " Fuel Value " for 
each person per day. This is because food resembles 
fuel ; and the value of what we eat can be measured 
by the amount of heat it can produce in the body. We 
need take no notice of the fact that the combustion 
takes place slowly and at a comparatively low tem- 
perature ; or of the fact that some heat goes to keep 
up the temperature of the body (984° Fahr.), while 



OUR NEED OF FOOD 15 

the rest is used up by our doing muscular work, volun- 
tary or involuntary. 

One great advantage in regarding food merely as 
supplying Calories of heat is that, for any given kind 
of food, a figure can be given for the exact amount of 
Calories produced when one gram, or one ounce, or one 
lb. of it undergoes combustion in the body ; and there- 
fore the effects of the different kinds of food taken can 
be added together into one total. 
Food for ^® must now consider food in an aspect 
body-build- in which it is different from fuel. When an 
^"^* engine shows signs of wear in any part, it 

must be stopped and repaired before it can work effect- 
ively again. The human machine must keep on going 
if it is to continue to exist ; voluntary work may be 
reduced to a minimum, but involuntary work, and the 
production of heat, must continue. The only method 
by which the body can replace — from outside — the 
wear and tear of its material is by the consumption 
of food. This is also the only means by which it can 
grow. 

All foods are not equally valuable for the purpose o f 
body-building, that is for the two processes of replacing 
old tissue, and creating entirely new tissue. We have 
now to distinguish different kinds of food, surveying 
them under an aspect in which one cannot replace 
another. 

Proteins as The most important constituent of food 
body-builders.for the purpose of body-building is the sub- 
stance referred to in the last chapter as protein,^ or 

^ Mulder, in Vegetable and Physiological Chemistry, 1845, says 
that the name protein is given to a definite substance " because 
it is the origin of so many dissimilar bodies, and is itself a primary 



16 FOOD VALUES 

the proteins, if we prefer to use the plural. We saw 
that proteins formed the chief part of flesh or muscle, 
i.e. of lean meat, though they could be obtained from 
many other foods. It seems obvious, however, that 
lean meat should be capable of forming new tissue, as 
it is natural that flesh should replace flesh. It will be 
equally obvious that milk can make new tissue, as 
babies and young animals rapidly increase in weight 
while it is their sole diet. And the material in an egg 
must be tissue forming, as during incubation the chick 
is formed with its aid, by the growth of the tiny embryo 
which is so small a proportion of a fresh egg. 
Proteins as But it will suggest itself after a moment's 
fuel. reflection that flesh at least, can also be 

used as a source of heat and energy. Suppose persons 
are undergoing actual starvation. They still keep 
warm, though perhaps with difficulty, and they are 
not incapable of motion. Where does their energy 
come from ? It is true that any fat which may have 
been deposited in the body gradually disappears ; but 
the tissues themselves also waste away, more rapidly 
in a thin person than in a fat one. The actual flesh 
of the body can then be used to give energy, so it seems 
clear that any meat we eat can do the same. Meat and 
all the other forms of protein we get in our food will 
give energy when oxidized, just as carbohydrates and 
fats do. It is nevertheless extravagant to get one's 
heat and energy from protein ; extravagant in the 
housekeeper's sense, because food that contains a lot of 

substance." This is no longer the scientific meaning given to 
the word, but shows that its importance lay in the readiness 
with which it undergoes chemical change to form material 
important in life processes. 



OUR NEED OF FOOD 17 

protein is generally expensive, and also from the view 
of the body's economies, if protein is the only food that 
builds up the tissues. The other kinds of food are 
therefore often referred to as " protein-sparers." 
Water essen- ^^ protein the only essential for replacing 
tial for new body tissue ? Water is certainly essential-; 
tissues. g^g about two-thirds of every tissue consists 

of this substance. But we are not put to any trouble 
in obtaining it, as most of the food we eat contains as 
much as this, if not more ; and we naturally take drink 
of some kind with any food which is rather dry. 
Mineral salts Further, practically all our food contains 
essential. some mineral salts, which are equally neces- 
sary for the construction of tissue. The easiest way 
to find out what mineral constituents exist in any sort 
of food is to burn a sample of it as completely as possible. 
When all the black charred material has been burned 
away the small quantity of white or grey ash remaining 
is the mineral part of the food. It consists generally 
of potassium, sodium, calcium, iron and magnesium, 
occurring as phosphates, carbonates, sulphates and 
chlorides. The proportion in which these are present, 
and the actual quantity present, vary very much in the 
different sorts of food. So it often may be important 
for particular reasons to know in which mineral con- 
stituents some special food is rich, and in which it is 
poor. But if we consider the constitution of animal 
and vegetable stuffs generally, and compare it with 
that of our own tissues, we find that the mineral materials 
used are very much the same all round ; the same 
substances are needed, speaking broadly, by every 
sort of living matter. For instance phosphorus and 
sulphur enter into the constitution of protoplasm 

c 



18 FOOD VALUES 

(living matter) itself ; salts of potash, soda and iron 
are essential to the processes by which hfe continues ; 
and lime or silica are the materials from which hard 
resisting structures are built. 

Plants, animals and human beings are then con- 
tinually passing these mineral salts on one to another. 
But it must not be forgotten that when we obtain them 
naturally in our food they are not in the simple chemical 
form in which they are in ash, they are in complex 
combination with organic material ; and it is these 
combinations with which our digestive system is pre- 
pared to deal. It would not be at all the same thing 
for us to eat the mineral ash, it might be quite useless 
to us, though it cannot be said dogmatically that it is 
certainly useless, considering that we take, and require, 
salt in the mineral form. Plants, on the other hand, 
can use this mineral ash, if it is returned to the soil, 
and there passes into solution. It forms good manure, 
i.e. plant food, but is not good animal food. 

However, the main point about the minerals in our 
diet is that we do get all that we need of every necessary 
chemical salt in an ordinary niixed diet. In fact we 
usually get more than we need, and the body has to 
excrete the surplus. It is only when the diet is for any 
reason very Umited in range, and many varieties of 
food are excluded, that trouble begins for want of 
certain mineral constituents. 

But the difficulties caused by limiting 
diet to one or two forms of food are by no 
means ejided when we have discussed mineral salts. 
In recent years much experimental work has been 
undertaken in feeding exclusively on some selected 
form of food, very often in the purest form obtainable, 



OUR NEED OF FOOD 19 

or even made artificially. The subjects of experiment 
have been human beings and animals, notably small 
ones, such as mice and rats. Much attention has been 
drawn to results indicating that there is some other 
factor, besides those mentioned, necessary to growth, 
if not always to actual repair of tissue. No summary 
of these results is yet possible, as new and -important 
observations are frequently pubhshed. 

An instance of this kind of observation is that of an 
experimenter who fed mice on the purified proteins 
from milk and egg with starch from potato and wheat, 
and oleo-margarine equally purified, together with 
the correct mineral salts. The mice lived and produced 
offspring, but these were difficult to rear, and did not 
reproduce at all.^ It has also been noted that rats 
which continue to grow when butter is their chief food, 
cease growth wheii fed with pure lard. The study of 
certain diseases has given indications in the same 
direction. The best known case is the disease of heri- 
heri, incurred by persons Hving almost exclusively 
on pohshed rice. When the rice grain is prepared 
for use by modern machinery, every vestige of the 
husk is removed, and the grain is said to be pohshed. 
This is not the case when it is prepared in a more primi- 
tive way. Coohes in China and Japan who live on 
machine -prepared rice have developed a disease un- 
known to their forefathers. The chief symptom is an 
increasing weakness in the limbs, followed by emacia- 
tion and death. If taken in time the disease can be 
cured by substituting unpolished rice as their daily 
fare, or by changing the diet altogether. Yet it has 

^ The experiment is described in Lusk, Science of Nutrition, 
p, 108. 



20 FOOD VALUES 

not been established that any definite mineral con- 
stituent has been removed in the husk.^ 

Something resembhng this was observed by two 
investigators who fed some rats on white bread or 
white flour, some on whole meal bread, or flour, as their 
sole food. In the former case death followed after 
some time. As will be seen by referring to the Tables, 
there is no great difference in nutritive content between 
the two. There seemed to be something necessary to 
life in that part of the husk of the wheat grain which 
appears in whole-meal bread, and not in white.^ 
Vitamines al- Readers must remember that nevertheless 
iir^^o?dfnary ^^^^^ ^^ ^^. "^^ whatever of ordinary people 
diet. dying or even becoming enfeebled by the 

use of polished rice or white bread ; because neither 
of these foods is likely to be their sole diet ; and the 
necessary substances will make their appearance in 
th€ usual mixed diet. Also that people do not thrive 
on any highly purified artificial form of diet, but can 
be brought into a normal condition again by adding 
iresh milk, meat, peas, or some " fresh " — not preserved 
or elaborately isolated — food to their daily fare. 

The name of Vitamines has been given provisionally 
to these necessary substances. They evidently exert 
an influence quite out of proportion to the quantity 

^ The material removed in polishing is sometimes sold as 
** rice flour," and is actually a more valuable food material 
than rice itself. 

2 Hill and Flack. " Nutritive Value of White and Standard 
Bread," British Medical Journal, May, 1911. The criticisms 
on their paper in the same journal should also be read ; and 
particularly the suggestion that the missing substance may 
be identified by further work as a compound of phosphorus, 
and not precisely a substance of the nature of a " vitamine," 



OUR iSFEED OF FOOD 21 

that is present. It has been suggested that they are 
not actually food but '' produce a harmonious inter- 
action between materials in the food and their host." ^ 
Agents of this kind are called in scientific language, 
catalysts or hormones, but the less technical term 
" accessory factor " seems the best for general use 
until more is known about them. It appears that they 
exist primarily in vegetables, and pass from them into 
animal tissues. 

Protein the After this brief survey of the material 
chief need, necessary for building up tissue, it will be 
estabhshed that what we have to secure in diet, for 
this special purpose, is a proper supply of protein. 

From what part of the food will this come ? The 
obvious sources are meat, including fish, milk and 
eggs. We can add cheese as a product of milk, but 
not butter. The curd which makes cheese consists of 
practically all the protein in milk, whereas in making 
butter the protein remains for the most part in the 
skim milk. 

But all food consisting of vegetable material, without 
any elaborate separation and isolation of certain pro- 
ducts — that is to say all kinds of seeds, roots, tubers, 
stems, leaves, fruit as we eat them contain some protein, 
though the quantity is very variable. Generally speak- 
ing, seeds (those which we select as food), contain most, 
seeds such as peas and other pulses, nuts, and the 
cereals ; whereas green vegetables and fruit contain 
very little. Sugar, on the other hand, being carefully 
isolated from the plants in which it occurs, contains 
absolutely no protein ; starchy preparations like 
cornflour and arrowroot contain practically none ; and 
^ Lusk. Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. 



»iM\^J^ r factors]. 



^^jMMA. 



22 FOOD VALUES 

the same may be said of most purified forms of fat 
and oil. 

The full list of materials for building up tissue is 
then as follows : — 

I, Proteins. Present in nearly all our diet, but in 
widely varying proportions. 

n. Water. Present in all, usually in large pro- 
portion. 

III. Mineral Salts. Present in very small porportion. 

IV. Vitamines [Provisional name for certain accessory 



TLr,/ ^ "7^ It is believed that the presence of a carbohydrate 
is also essential in some way to the production of new 
tissue. Except for this proviso, the two other forms 
of food, fats and carbohydrates, are absent from the list. 
Fuel values of ^® must now revert to that primary use 
the three of food, for which all three kinds serve — 
foods. ^^ produce heat and energy. The different 

forms produce this in different quantity, according to 
their chemical composition. Proteins are not entirely 
combustible ; the nitrogenous part is separated, with a 
certain amount of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, and 
the non- nitrogenous part may be considered as com- 
bustible Hke the other forms. This portion is compar- 
able to a carbohydrate in the quantity of heat it pro- 
duces during jcombustion ; whereas the fats produce, 
weight for weight, more than twice as much. The 
quantities have been carefully calculated many times 
over from experiments with a calorimeter, and the 
generahzed result is that — 

1 gram of Protein in combustion produces . 4-1 Calories 
1 „ /Fat „ „ . 9-3 „ 

1 „ Carbohydrate „ „ .- 4-1 „ 



OUR NEED OF FOOD 23 

In ounces this statement takes the form — 

1 Qunce of Protein produces . . . .116 Calories 

1 „ Fat „ . . . . 263 „ 

1 „ Carbohydrate,, . . . . 116 „ 

The requirements of an individual in Calories and in 
Protein will be the subject of the next chapter. In 
this one we have considered briefly our supply of food 
under several headings : — the three just mentioned 
above, mineral salts and water. Is this classification 
exhaustive ? Arer any well-known ingredients of 
Condiments ordinary food omitted ? Several will no 
and stimu- doubt have occurred to readers, if only 
^ such obvious ones as pepper and mustard. 

There are many such ingredients of diet very important 
to appetite, and through appetite to digestion. There 
are others which act as stimulants to the nerves. These 
substances are not food, if we mean by food some 
substance that produces heat, or goes to build up tissue. 
But most of us would lose a great part of our interest 
in food if they were not there. Substances of this 
nature are — 

1. Nitrogenous compounds which are not proteins, 
but give the pleasant flavour to meat and meat extracts. 

2. The acids and " essential oils " found in fruits, 
particularly in the juice, giving flavour and perfume. 
For instance, the juice of a lemon contains several 
acids ; the rind contains a non-acid essential oil which 
is separated as " essence of lemon." Under the same 
heading we may mention the strong- tasting constituents 
of savoury herbs and flavoured seeds like carraway and 
anise. 

3. Pungent compounds such as occur in mustard, 
cresses, horseradish ; also in pepper and other spices. 



24 FOOD VALUES • 

4. Stimulants such as are contained in tea, coffee 
and cocoa ; which, when isolated, approximate to the 
nature of medicines rather than food. 

These substances are, like foods proper, composed of 
carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, with occasionally nitrogen 
and sulphur as well, but those that are nitrogenous can- 
not be transformed into body substance. The others, 
though they may finally be broken up and oxidized, are 
so small in actual quantity that their products of com- 
bustion are negligible and do not give any calculable 
food value to the original material. But many, like 
the vegetable acids, serve definite purposes in digestion, 
and in helpii]^ the action of the digestive glands. 

As we have laid so much stress on the 
actual combustion of food in the body, we 
cannot evade the difficult question whether alcohol 
is a food. 

Without any discussion of the other effects produced 
by it in the body it is a fact that if alcohol undergoes 
complete combustion in the body, it contributes energy 
in Calories to the amount computed from its chemical 
formula. Only a small quantity daily, however, will 
undergo complete combustion ; if more than this is 
taken, the alcohol is not completely burned, and other 
results ensue. 



CHAPTER III 

THE NUTRITIVE REQUIREMENTS OF THE AVERAGE 

MAN 

We are now to arrive at a definite statement of the 
amount of nutrition required by the body daily, first in 
terms of Calories for the whole of the food needed, and 
secondly the amount of protein, expressed in grams 
or ounces, sufficient to replace the wear and tear of the 
tissues gnd to allow for growth. 

By what method has it been possible to make numeri- 
cal statements of this kind ? Physiologists have had 
three ways of attacking the problem. The first is to 
How the estimate the in-coming and the out-going, if 
figures are the body remains of constant weight. The 
obtained. whole of the material excreted by the lungs, 
the skin, the kidneys and the bowels, can be measured 
and analysed. Excepting the refuse of the food, the out- 
going substances are the products of all the combustion 
that has gone on, and of all the breaking-down of tissues. 
Close study has also been given to the excretions during 
starvation, and during extra severe labour. These 
researches all form part of the investigation of Meta- 
holism. The meaning of this word is the 
changes produced in material from outside 
by the action of hving cells, whether the material is built 

25 



26 FOOD VALUES 

up into some more complex substance (anabolism) or 
broken down to a simpler one (katabolism). This small 
book cannot make any pretence to treat of metabolism, 
nor is the writer competent to do so. Yet any one who 
wishes to study nutrition properly must devote some 
considerable time and attention to this aspect of the 
subject, even though it entails some prehminary work 
in physiology and chemistry. We shall not venture 
here to touch upon this very large domain of knowledge 
and speculation, involved in the investigation of what 
becomes of the food that is eaten. 

The second method of ascertaining nutritive require- 
ments is to try experiments in diet on men and animals. 
These experiments are usually carried on under con- 
ditions such that the excreta are all examined, and 
quantitative results obtained ; so that the work often 
throws more light on metabolism than anythkig else. 
But often there are simple conclusions with regard to the 
weight, health or activity of the animal which give 
direct information on diet. 

The third way is to collect statistics concerning the 
actual food taken daily by people in different climates 
doing various amounts of muscular work, to tabulate 
and compare these. It is assumed that the average per- 
son who is able to obtain the food for which he experi- 
ences need will eat about the right quantity, and select 
about the right ingredients to keep himself " fit " — that 
is, healthy and strong enough for work ; although it is 
true that medical practitioners have much evidence to 
the contrary. Nevertheless figures obtained in this way 
have great weight and value, if they are founded on a 
sufficiently large number of cases. We shall give a 
general survey of the figures in this chapter, and then 



REQUIREMENTS OF THE AVERAGE MAN 27 

give them, in a better form for comparison and choice, 
at the beginning of the Tables in Chap. V. 
Calories The number of Calories necessary daily for 

necessary. ^}^q normal average man is by no means 
fixed and invariable. It depends first on the area of the 
surface of the body, and secondly on the amount of work 
performed. It will be noted that it is the surface of the 
body, not its weight. This is because the chief part of 
the heat lost by the body is from the surface, whether 
covered or uncovered. Estimation by weight instead of 
surface will give a fairly approximate figure as a rule. 
Children must be allowed more, because the area of the 
surface of their small bodies is greater in proportion to 
their weight than it is in adults. Also_a thin person 
loses heat more rapidly than a stout one, because he has 
proportionally more surface. But the greatest varia- 
tions in the number of Calories will be caused by the 
amount of voluntary work done. 

An average man is considered to weigh 70 kilograms, 
or 154 lb. When living a sedentary life he needs about 
2,500 Calories per day, i.e. about 35 per kilogram of 
weight. The number will be reduced to less than 2,000 
if he is resting in bed, to very little over 2,000 if he 
sits still in a chair and takes no exercise. The same 
person doing moderate physical work will need 3,000 
Calories. 

This quantity has been fixed by many authorities, both 
those judging by statistics and those from physiological 
evidence, and is usually given as sufficient for an ordin- 
ary artisan. People who do strenuous physical work 
out-of-doors want quite 3,500 Calories, as may be seen 
in an interesting collection of farmers' dietaries in the 
United States, Mexico, Finland and Italy, made by 



28 FOOD VALUES 

Prof. Atwater.^ Much lafger numbers are quoted for 
athletes, according to their exertions ; up to 8,000 
Calories for a lumberman in Maine, and 9-10,000 for a 
rider in a long bicycle race. These figures will not be of 
much avail for ordinary use. The following may be of 
interest as indicating what sort of difference muscular 
work makes : An average man consumes about 160 
additional Calories' in walking 2-7 miles in an hour along 
a level road. To climb a hill 1,650 ft. high he needs 
407 additional Calories. An expert bicycle rider working 
hard is calculated to use about 530 extra Calories per 
hour. 

Atwater states 3,500 Calories as the daily need of an 
ordinary labourer, whereas most authorities give him 
only 3,000. The former figure has been used by Rown- 
tree in Poverty, his investigation of the life of the 
working classes in York, and also by Paton and Dunlop 
in their dietary studies in Edinburgh and Glasgow. 
Dunlop made observations himself on the work and diet 
of prisoners in Edinburgh. Probably the chief reason 
for this discrepancy is that it is impossible to define 
." moderate " muscular work, and to distinguish it 
quantitatively from "strenuous." But it will be seen 
below that the United States standard of diet tends 
to be higher than other countries in various ways. The 
severer climate in Edinburgh may also increase the 
estimate for the total number of Calories. 

Soldiers are naturally given a larger allowance for the 
open-air irregular life during war time, or during 
manoeuvres, than they are for garrison life. 

It should be mentioned here that some modern writers, 

^ See Lusk, Science of Nvtrition, Chap. IV. for this table and 
a full discussion of the subject. 



REQUIREMENTS OF THE AVERAGE MAN 29 

who, as we shall see, advocate a diet rather low in protein, 
advise at the same time an increase in the total number 
of Calories customary ; i.e. that one should take more 
carbohydrates and fats than are necessary to make up the 
usual number. Others are contented with a lower 
allowance of total Calories as well as of protein. 

Probably most sedentary men of the professional 
type, and of average weight, consume naturally food 
equivalent to 2,500 Calories, or little more. 
Requirements What is the quantity of protein required 
in protein, daily by the average man weighing 70 kilo- 
grams ? It has been established by many experiments 
that the quantity is not directly influenced by the amount 
of muscular work performed. Therefore it would seem 
that a number could be quoted more readily than that 
for Calories. But the matter is beset with other diffi- 
culties, and, up till now, is far more in the region of con- 
troversy than the consideration of total Calories. A 
few preliminary remarks may illustrate the difficulties. 

1. The number to be determined is not the actual 
physiological minimum upon which life can be sus- 
tained, but what has been called the optimum, upon 
which the body will best perform its functions, keep 
The optimumsach organ healthy and well developed, 
amount. and be able to stand a sudden strain. Too 
large an allowance of protein throws great work on cer- 
tain organs for its chemical transformation and elimina- 
tion. It is expensive in the body economy, as well as 
being usually so in the household economy. Protein, 
as such, cannot be stored in the body for future use. The 
main difference in the controversy as to high or low 
protein allowance turns to a large extent on the point 
whether the common usage of mankind in temperate 



/ 



30 FOOD VALUES 

climates has led them naturally to the optimum, or to 
some excess in protein which is gratifying to the appetite. 
The diffesti- ^* ^^ should be clearly stated whether the 
bility of pro- quantity fixed upon as most suitable is the 
tein. protein actually contained in food, or that 

actually digested. The digestibiUty of the various 
kinds . differs (see Tables). As a rule, the former is 
chosen and is, or should be, referred to as the " crude 
protein " allowance. In converting the protein from 
. a mixed food into the digested quantity, 10 per cent, 
is often subtracted. 

Method of es- 3. The method still adopted to calculate 
oSf roughly ^^® percentage of protein in a given food is 
approximate, to estimate the percentage of nitrogen 
present (by analyses which have been made very close 
and accurate, it is true) and to multiply by a certain 
factor to indicate protein. In this way the small 
quantities of nitrogenous compounds which are not 
proteins are included. Formerly gelatin was included 
until it was estabUshed that it was not a true protein, 
but could only be classified as a protein-sparer, with 
calorific value. Even yet different kinds are not 
distinguished in the result of "analyses. As scientific 
knowledge of the differences amongst proteins increases 
it is probable that there may have to be some distinc- 
tion ; and modified forms of analyses may become pos- 
sible. At present the figure for the actual protein con- 
tent of a food leaves something to be desired in exactness. 
Protein opti- From about 1865 onwards physiologists 
mum. have made numerical statements about the 

amount of nitrogen there should be in the daily diet, 
and have made investigations and experiments to 
establish the quantity. But since then so much pro- 



REQUIREMENTS OF THE AVERAGE MAN 31 

gress has been made in the knowledge of what the com- 
binations of nitrogen ought to be, and also in the method 
of determining the quantity in a given food, that modern 
statements of 'a more rehable nature may be said to 
begin with that of Voit pubhshfed in 1881. It was the 
result of many years' study of the actual diet of German 
people, chiefly in Munich, and also of much research. 
The figure he gave was 118 grams of protein, about 
4 J oz.,. for a man of average height and average work. 
[Other workers in Germany, England and other parts 
of Europe concurred very nearly. It was customary 
then to allow more for strenuous muscular effort (as 
this was considered to use up body tissue directly). 
Although, as we have said, the connexion is now shown 
not to be a direct and measurable one as it is in the case 
of Calories, it is nevertheless still usual to allow some 
increase for athletic efforts. The main reason is that 
protein increases, indirectly, the production of heat in the 
body.] 

But to return to Voit's standard, as it has been called. 
In 1896 Atwater pubhshed his first results of dietary 
studies in the United States, and fixed 125 grams of 
protein as necessary. Dr. Dunlop in his investiga- 
tions on Scottish prisoners gave 130 grams as the most 
suitable number. 

Rowntree in his Poverty, already mentioned, took 
At water's 125 grams as the minimum daily amount 
of protein for working-class efiiciency, and, as late as 
1908, the Paton-Dunlop Studies of Diet of the Labour- 
ing Classes in Edinburgh and in Glasgow were based 
upon Dunlop's estimate of 130 grams. 
Low protein But in 1904 Chittenden published his 
**®^* studies in nutrition, in which, as the result 



32 FOOD VALUES 

of many striking experiments, he concluded that 
efficiency could be maintained on as little as 50 or 60 
grams of protein daily. At various times in the nine- 
teenth century isolated experimenters in diet had 
tried to show by personal experience that a much lower 
protein diet was compatible with health. For instance, 
as early as 1829 an American named Sylvester Graham 
advocated a vegetarian diet of this kind^ which produced, 
simultaneously with an admitted gradual loss of body 
weight, great increase in bodily health and appetite. 
(Graham also first introduced the use of a whole- meal 
flour, still known in the United States as Graham flour). 
The study of the diet of strong labouring men in tropical 
countries, notably of Chinese and Japanese coohes, led 
many observers to doubt the necessity of so much pio- 
tein as is the custom in other countries ; it was also 
urged that the poorer labouring classes in these temperate 
countries certainly have not during the past centuries 
had anything like the amount accepted by the authori- 
ties. The American households studied by Atwater 
were certainly well fed ; he contended that this good 
feeding was necessary for well-being. Voit, and still 
more Volt's followers, admitted that the consumption of 
meat in Munich, where most of his statistics were ob- 
tained, was beyond the average. They beheved that a 
smaller quantity of protein might be found sufficient, 
and were not concerned to find that the German soldier's 
daily rations contained only 98 grams of protein. Voit 
considered excess in protein wasteful and unnecessary. 
Altogether the tendency of recent physiologists also 
is to bring down the optimum amount to something a 
little under 100 grams, and to admit the possibility of 
carrying on a fairly active healthy life on amounts 



REQUIREMENTS OF THE AVERAGE MAN 33 

between 50 and 70 grams. (It is always admitted that 
in the summer the daily amount of protein should be 
lessened, because of its secondary effect of increasing 
heat production in the body.) A recent Danish writer 
(Hindhede) is stronger than Chittenden in the conviction 
that about 70 grams daily is ample. An interesting 
series of experiments was carried on recently in the 
Laboratory at Univeisity College, London, whereby it 
appeared that a set of male workers there, professors 
and students, consumed on the average 93 grams of 
protein per day, while in ordinary health and subsisting 
on their ordinary diet. The last word of importance on 
the subject at this moment is to be found in the Ger- 
mans' investigation of their full resources in food during 
the War.i After an admirable brief summary of the 
present state of knowledge on the necessary amount of 
protein, the German scientific authorities state their 
conviction that most people " can manage " with 70 
grams digestible protein, — 80 grams crude protein. But 
with every desire to put the figure low they wish also to 
be on the safe side, and^Jiot to advocate too great a 
change in the national diet. So they finally adopt 80 
grams digestible, 90 gTams crude protein as their mini- 
mum. There is however some confusion in this part 
of the investigation, for the 80 grams are finally esti- 
mated as crude protein, not as digestible. Thus appa- 
rently by an oversight they limit the present consump- 
tion in Germany to 80 grams per man per day, according 
to the usual way of estimating ; i.e. so as to be com- 
parable with Voit's and Chittenden's figures (Voit con- 1 
sidered that 105 of his 118 was fully digested). i 

^ Qermmuf,^ Food ; Can it Last ? . . . The case as presented / 
by German Experts. Translated by S. Russell Wells. / 



34 FOOD VALUES 

It is found then that recent scientific opinion puts the 
hygienic protein minimum or optimum at something 
between 90 and 100 grams instead of any higher figure. 
As we have already said, it is usual to allow some in- 
crease to this average amount for athletes or persons 
undergoing any great exertion. 

We do not recommend to our readers any fixed figure, 
but will give a choice of standards when giving the tables, 
so that any one about to criticise a diet can first fix his or 
her own standard. We shall give also the standard 
reached in certain typical diets. As will perhaps be 
obvious beforehand, middle- and upper-class EngHsh 
and American folk tend to consume daily more protein 
than even the highest figure stated as necessary, and 
people below the poverty line markedly less. Food 
rich in protein is more attractive to most people, and, as 
a rule, more expensive. 

Fats and car- The last question to be asked is, what is the 
bohydrates. proper quantity of fats and of carbohydrates 
in a diet ? There is no need to give fixed quantities, 
because these two forms of food are mutually replaceable, 
always remembering that a given weight of fat produces 
a httle more than twice as much energy as the same 
weight of carbohydrate. The three forms of food give 
energy ; protein is also available for tissue building. 
When enough protein has been suppHed for the latter 
purpose either carbohydrates or fats ^vill supply the rest 
of the Calories of energy. 

Voit's original statistic for the man doing medium 
work was 56 grams fat and 500 grams carbohydrates 
with the 118 grams protein. These figures have been 
very generally quoted in standard diets, though often 
with 50 grams fat instead of 56. The total Calories 



REQUIEEMENTS OF THE AVERAGE MAN 35 

come to about 3,000, a little more if 56 grams is taken. 
In ounces the figures would be 1| or 2 oz. fat, 18 oz. 
carbohydrates. It must not be forgotten that carbohy- 
drate food is cheaper than fat ; it forms the largest 
nutritive part of the cereals which are the staple foods of 
most parts of the world. Economical diets, such as those 
of the poor working class type, of prisons and of hos- 
pitals, often do not contain more than 50 to 70 grams 
(1| to 2J oz.) fat, unless in a very cold cHmate or season, 
where need is felt for the food that gives the best heat 
value. But most well-to-do people consume more fat 
than this in a day ; it is quite possible to find 4 oz. 
consumed on the average, while the carbohydrates 
taken at the same time often amount to 14 oz. In- 
dividuals of course vary very much in their power of 
digesting fats, and the fats with lower melting points 
(such as oUve oil) are more easily digested than those 
with high melting points such as mutton dripping. But 
speaking generally 100 grams, less than 4 oz., is as 
much as any one can assimilate daily, and for most pur- 
poses unnecessarily much. On the other hand, carbo- 
hydrates, though well digested, throw a good deal of 
work on the digestive system, and the amount ought 
not to exceed 18 o^l ' -When a gre^t deal of active work 
is being undertaken, it is usual to increase the amount 
of fat if possible so as to make up the total Calories to 
3,500, 4,000 or even higher. 

In modifying the figures 56 grams and 500 grams 
given by Voit, so as to use more fat and less carbohy- 
drates, it is perhaps sufficiently accurate to take 2 grams 
away from the carbohydrate total for every 1 gram 
added^to the fat total, but 2} grams is better. If the 
daily amount of fat is about 3 oz., a little more than 14 oz. 



36 FOOD VALUES 

of carbohydrates will be sufficient. But it has been 
stated that well-to-do families in America consume 
4-5 oz. of fat per head daily. A man upon whom Voit 
was experimenting was put on a " medium mixed 
diet " which consisted of 3 J oz. protein, 3^ oz. fat and 
12J oz. carbohydrates, which made up just over 3,000 
Calories. 

In discussing diets it is now very usual to calculate 
and comment upon only (1) the protein present, 
and (2) the total fuel value, and not to distinguish 
whether fats or carbohydrates are used, unless the diet 
is. very abnormal in that respect. As a matter of econ- 
omy, without regard to digestion, most normal diets 
could have their fat partly replaced by carbohydrates. 
Lusk says — " Carbohydrates are the most economical of 
the food-stuffs both physiologically and financially. 
They are the greatest sparers of protein. Ingestion of 
fat has for its object the relieving of the intestine from 
excessive carbohydrate digestion and absorption. In- 
gestion of fat in too large quantities leads to digestive 
disturbances." ^ 

Nutritive When diets are summarized as so many 

ratio. total Calories — so many of these Calories 

being supphed by protein, the ratio of the latter number 
to the former is an important figure. It may be stated 
as a percentage, or as 1-6, 1-8, which is the same as 
saying the protein is | or J of the whole. It is a simple 
matter to ascertain the nutritive ratio (instances will be 
given in the Tables). The difficulty is the one which 
has beset us continually in discussing the proper amount " 
of protein — what is the right nutritive ratio ? 

Voit's figures give 15 per cent., or 1-6|. Atwater's, 
1 Science of Nutrition, p. 189. 



REQUIREMENTS OF THE AVERAGE MAN 37 

with, increased protein and increased Calories, give 
about the same. Hutchison (see Food and Dietetics), from 
figures which are an average from various authorities, 
thinks 1-5| not too high. Chittenden, with only 50 
grams protein to 2,500 Calories has a ratio of 8 per cent, 
or 1 to 12J. Hindhede, with decreased protein and com- 
paratively high total Calories lowers it without limit. 
The German experts conclude that the ratio for the 
German nation ought not to fall below 11 per cent., or 
1-9. The physiologists who now are in favour of 
90-100 grams protein to 3,000 Calories will fix the ratio 
at 1-8. There is certainly variety to choose from. 
The extreme case is that of the advocates of low protein 
diet who wish to increase the daily amount of Calories 
to about 4,000, while they greatly diminish the protein, 
with the consequence that the ratio may readily fall as 
low as 1-40 or less ! 

If the right ratio should ever be determined it would 
give some standard of judgment whether a particular 
food is made up of constituents in about the right 
quantity, so that it could, alone, form a " perfect food." 
Not that a single form of food would prove generally 
desirable to people, except in the case of infants' milk. 
This indeed forms an interesting example. An infant 
of six months old, fed on mother's milk, takes as much 
protein as would be equivalent to 140 grams daily for 
the average man, yet the nutritive ratio is less than 
1-10.1 

Nutritive ra- Bread is worth considering in this aspect, 

tio in bread. Jt is certainly not a "perfect food," as it 
contains only a negligible quantity of fat, and would not 
suffice all purposes if eaten alone. But is it rich enough 
^ Hutchison. Applied Physiology, p. 4. 



38 FOOD VALUES 

in protein ? Opinions contradict one another in an ex- 
traordinary way. It must be premised that (1) two 
specimens of apparently similar bread may differ 
notably in protein content. (2) Two specimens of 
bread made from different flours will differ still more. 
(3) Not all the protein in bread is digested. However, 
the nutritive ratio is usually 1-8 or 1-9 for digested 
protein, 1-7 J for crude protein. On the Voit and 
Atwater standard, then, it does not contain enough 
protein. Investigators Hke Rowntree and Paton have 
usually assumed that bread is too poor in protein to sus- 
tain life properly. But it is clear that opinion is chang- 
ing if the following passage from a recent War Pam- 
phlet ^ is quoted. " The amount of protein received 
(in bread) will very nearly reach what is a desirable 
ratio, and from this standpoint bread is a satisfactory 
basal food stuff." The authors go on to comment on 
its deficiency in fat. 

At any rate, when butter or jam is taken with bread 
the total Calories receive an addition while the protein 
is unaltered, so that bread and butter and bread and 
jam are likely to be a less " satisfactory basal food 
stuffs " than bread. But there are disciples of the 
low-protein allowance and small nutritive ratio who 
find bread itself too rich in protein to be satisfactory ! 

1 Food Economy in War Time. T. B. Wood and F. G. 
Hopkins. 



CHAPTER IV 

THE NUTRITIVE REQUIREMENTS OF WOMEN AND 
CHILDREN 

So fai the discussion of nutritive requirements has 
been confined to those of the individual called the 
average man ; the only modifications suggested were 
according to variation in the man's weight, and in 
the amount of muscular work he does. But the most 
common problem for students of diet to solve is what 
food to supply for a "household or family of different 
sexes and ages. The question for us now, therefore, is, 
what proportion of the food suitable for an average 
man will be needed by (1) the average woman, (2) 
children of various ages ? 

Rowntree, in his Poverty, and Paton and Dunlop 
in their Scottish Diet Studies, work from a table supplied 
by Atwater and 'Wood, in their Dietary Studies in New 
York City, 1896. The table is as follows :— 

»* X J A woman takes -8 

Atwater and . i ^A ^a o 

Wood's table A b.«{/f-16 " '? , , ,^ , , , 

A girl 14-16 „ -7 of the food of a man 

A child 10-13 „ -6 I at moderate muscular 
„ 6-9 „ -o labour. 
„ 2-5 
„ under 2 „ 

This is a very useful general table ; but the American 
39 



40 FOOD VALUES 

authors obsei^ved at the time that it would be subject 
to revision when more experimental evidence was 
forthcoming. Although this table is now twenty years 
old the experiments on the subject do not seem to have 
been numerous since then, or to have accumulated 
much evidence. It is naturally easier for physiologists 
to make experiments on diet with men connected with 
their laboratories than on women and children ; and it 
has been remarked that not enough is known about 
women's diet ; especially about the exceptional diet 
needed by pregnant or nursing w^omen, although atten- 
tion has been more drawn to these exceptions than to 
ordinary women's methods of feeding. The German 
experts quoted in the last chapter have brought together 
all the material available to them, in a Table comparing 
the various pronouncements on the subject. Before 
giving this it will be well to view the problem generally. 

The average man is supposed to have protein accord- 
ing to his weight, and not according to his work, although 
it may be advisable to increase his allowance if he 
undergoes strenuous and continual muscular strain. 

The whole number of Calories he needs is only roughly 
proportional to his weight, and must include an addi- 
tional allowance for medium and for arduous muscular 
work. This additional allowance can be chiefly in the 
form of fats and carbohydrates. 

Women Common observation tells us that a 

workers. woman naturally takes less food than a man 
as a rule ; and this may be for two reasons — (1) her 
smaller w^eight, (2) her decreased muscular activity. As 
regards protein, the first of the two considerations will 
be all important, and a certain proportion of the man's 
allowance can be settled as applying to any woman of 



REQUIREMENTS OF WOMEN 41 

average weiglit. But as regards total Calories there 
must be some range for different women. The char- 
woman and the Cradley Heath chainmaker certainly 
need more than the school teacher ; the modern athletic 
young woman also needs— and takes — more food than 
the " domesticated " girl who does " light home duties." 
The German publication quotes valuabla. figures for 
similar cases, though it does not say whence they are 
obtained. 

Needlewomen . . . . . 2,000 Calories 

Machinists and book-binders . . 2,100 ,, 

to 
2,300 
Domestic Servants . . . . 2,500 ,, 

to 
3,200 
Washerwomen .... 2,900 „ 

to 
3,700 

These direct numbers may often be of more use to 

us than the decimal fractions of men's food. Rowntree 

would give the average woman -8 of 3,5C0 Calories, 

which is 2, SCO. The number 3,500 is his estimate, 

considered now rather large for the average labouring 

man, but 2,800 is certainly not too much for an average 

working-man's wife, w^hose w^ork is probably heavier 

than a domestic servant's. Chittenden,^ on the other 

hand, quotes from the report of Bedford Reformatory, 

in New York State, that the women there employed on 

hard manual labour received in food the equivalent of 

81-9 gr. protein and 2,G29 Calories, which is rather 

low in comparison with German estimates. The protein 

is just under 70 per cent, of the usual allowance (of 

120 grams) for a man. 

^ British Medical Journal, June, 1911. 



42 FOOD VALUES 

In most households studied, it would probably be 
safe to take the wife's requirements as -8 of those of the 
husband. The wife of a professional man would, like 
himself, be doing quite light muscular work ; and -8 of 
the lower figure of his needs in Calories would be nearer 
her requirements than -8 of Atwater's 3,500 Calories. 
But it must not be forgotten that some authorities 
(see the German Tables) allow a larger proportion — 85 or 
•9 ; considering that the average woman approximates 
more nearly to the average man than is expressed by 
four-fifths of his weight and exertions. 

It is advisable to lessen the allowance for people 
over sixty of both sexes, as in advanced life the exer- 
tions, and the general wear and tear are much less. 

It has been already suggested that in 
estimating children's needs it is not possible 
to consider them as even approximately according to 
weight. Their greater surface in proportion to weight 
causes them to need^more Calories ; and also more 
protein has to be allowed for their growth. It is stated 
that an infant of 10 lbs. weight has a skin surface of 
3 sq. ft. ; whereas a man weighing 200 lbs., instead of 
the surface of 60 sq. ft. which would be in proportion, 
has only 21 sq. ft. 

It will be noticed that the Table already quoted 
assumes that a boy over sixteen years of age will need 
as much food as a man, and a girl as much as a woman ; 
also that below thirteen years of age no difference need 
be made between the sexes. Some authorities, however, 
besides making more complete difference between the 
sexes, give a smaller quantity for a boy's requirements 
than a man's even to nineteen years and later ! Com- 
mon experience certainly indicates that a boy from six- 



REQUIREMENTS OF WOMEN 43 

teen to nineteen eats as much, or more, than a full 
grown man ; and Starling ^ asserts that a boy from 
nine to thirteen eats as much as a man, while from 
fourteen to nineteen he eats more. This physiologist 
considers that a girl reaches her maximum in require- 
ments at about eleven years of age, and they then 
remain stationary for many years. 

In the German collection of statistics which follows, 
the American figures quoted do not separate boys and 
girls at all, whereas the Danish ones next to them con- 
sider that girls need less than boys from birth onwards ! 

The Atwater Table already given treats a child's 
requirements as a certain fraction of those of the man 
doing " moderate muscular work," which they compute 
as 3,500 Calories. There can be no need with children, 
as there is with women, to differentiate needs according 
to class and occupation. We may assume that the 
same number of Calories will be needed for children of 
the same age in any family : and if we agree that the 
allowance should be ample it will not be advisable to 
calculate the Calories for the children as a fraction of 
the lower requirements of the professional father. 

We will now give the Table of collected statistics 
from the German publication. We do not give this 
in the general tables of Chap. V, because it seems better 
to give a condensed and generaUzed form there. In 
this Table the average man's requirements are called 
100, so that -8, -6 etc., become 80, 60 and so on. 

^ Physiology, p. 735. 



44 



FOOD VALUES 



Table from Germany s Food : Can it Last ? 

Scale of Requirement Units according to Sex and Age 
1 grown man = 100 









Units according to— 




i'lccin ro 


Age 










Ameri- 




nearest 


Engel 


Rubner 


Atwater 


Zuntz 


can 
House- 


Danish 

Statistics 


whole 
number 




m. and f. 


m. and f. 


m. and f. 


ra. and f . 


iiold 
m. and f. 


m. f. 




under 
















1 year 


28-6 


— 


30 


20 


15 


22 


17-6 


22 


1 


31-4 


21-8 


30 


30 


15 


22 


17-6 


24 


2 


34-3 


29-7 


40 


40 


15 


30 


24 


30 


3 


371 


35-4 


40 


40 


15 


36 


28-8 


33 


4 


40 


38-8 


40 


40 


40 


39 


31-2 


38 


5 


42-9 


42-3 


40 


50 


40 


43 


34-4 


42 


6 


45-7 


43-7 


50 


50 


40 


44 


35-2 


44 


7 


48-6 


45-0 


50 


50 


75 


45 


36 


50 


8 


51-4 


46-4 


50 


50 


75 


47 


37-6 


51 


9 , 


54-3 


47-8 


50 


50 


75 


48 


38-4 


52 


10 


571 


49-2 


60 


75 


75 


50 


40 


58 


11 


60 


54-4 


60 


75 


90 


-55 


44 


63 


12 


62-9 


59-6 


60 


75 


90 


60 


48 


65 


13 


65-7 


65 


60 


75 


90 


66 


52-8 


68 


14 


68-6 


70-6 


80 70 


75 


90 


71 


56-8 


76 72 


15 


71-4 


731 


80 70 


100 80 


100 90 


74 


59-2 


83 74 


16 


74-3 


75-7 


80 70 


100 80 


100 90 


76 


60-8 


84 75 


17 


771 


78-4 ■ 


80 70 


100 80 


100 90 


79 


63-2 


86 77 


18 


80 


81-6 


100 80 


100 80 


100 90 


82 


65-6 


91 80 


19 


82-9 


100 — 


100 80 


100 80 


100 90 


100 


80 


97 83 


20 


85-7 


100 — 


100 80 


100 80il00 90 


100 


80 


98 83 


21 


88-6 85-7 


100 — 


100 80 


100 80100 90 


100 


80 


98 83 


22 


91-4 85-7 


100 — 


100 80 


100 80100 90 


100 


80 


98 83 


23 


94-3 85-7 


100 — 


100 80 


100 80100 90 


100 


80 


99 83 


24 


97-1 85-7 


100 — 


100 80 


100 80 100 90 


100 


80 


99 83 


25-29 


100 85-7 


100 — 


100 80 


100 80 la) 90 


100 


80 


100 83 


60 and 


100 85-7 


100 — 


100 80 


90 80 100 90 


100 


80 


100 83 


over 

















REQUIREMENTS OF WOMEN 45 

There are several interesting points in these figures. 
Note first the varying ages at which a boy or young 
man is considered to need the full quantity of food 
allowed for an adult. What about the allowance for 
declining years ? Zuntz, whose figures seem to be 
the most recent, is the only authority who decreases 
the requirement after sixty years of age, and he does 
not think it necessary to do so for women. 

It will hardly be necessary for us to use the decimal 
figures given in some lists. The firgt German writer 
who gives them (Engel) would seem to have started 
with seven year periods as a basis, and to have designed 
round numbers to those. Thus. 

Allowance. 

Age 4 40 

„ 11 60 

„ 18 80 

„ 25 . . . . . .100 

One feels doubtful whether youth of both sexes from 
eighteen to twenty-five should remain on 80 per cent, 
of full allowance. 

The American household does not give babies 
under four very ample diet ; and Danish children, 
both male and female, seem to be brought up with 
Spartan moderation. The closest agreement for chil- 
dren in the varying figures in the columns is at the age 
of four. Omitting Danish female babies the figures 
are 38-8, 39 or 40. 

The German experts finally took the mean of all 
these figures, but only at the end of some elaborate 
further calculations. A mean has been calculated, 
therefore, and given in the last column (in round num- 
bers without decimals). If this hst of mean results 



46 



FOOD VALUES 



is compared with Atwater and Wood's original table, 
there is no great change to note ; there would be still 
less if the extraordinarily low ffgures for Danish girl 
children were omitted. 

As the figures stand they compare as follows — 



16 



Atwater and Wood, 
A woman 
A boy over 
Boy 14-16 
Girl 14-16 
Child 10-13 
ChUd 6-9 
ChUd 2-5 
Child under 



Generalised mean 
from German^quotatlons, 

•8 . . -83 

1 . . -92 

•8 . . -81 

•7 . . -74 

•6 . . -64 

•5 . . -49 

•4 . . -36 

•3 . . -23 



It is suggested that the student should use her dis- 
cretion in selecting what numbers to use for a particular 
family ; but that [the Atwater and Wood table still 
seems fairly reliable. 



Addendum. — ^Prof. Bowley, in Livelihood and Poverty, 
1915, uses the following table : — 



Over 18 

16-18 

14-16 

6-14 

0-6 

People in 



Age. 



M. 


F. 


00 


80 


85 


80 


85 


70 


50 


50 


33 


33 



Pensions 



receipt of Old Age 



60 



60 



CHAPTER V 



TABLES 

TABLE I 

General 'Statement of the Dietary Requirements 
OF A Single Individual per Day 

A man weighing 70 kilograms and living an ordinary 
life,- needs in Protein— 



Grams. 


Oz. 


According to 


120 


4i 


Voit and Atwater (mean; 


95-100 


3i 


Recent Physiologists 


60-70 


2^21 


Chittenden. 



For great physical strain the number of grams may- 
be increased to 150 ; and 190 grams is demanded by- 
some authorities for men like soldiers on active service. 

This is crude protein, i.e. the amount actually taken 
in the food. The amount digested varies with the 
kind of food : about 10 per cent, may be deducted to 
give the amount of digestible protein. 

Advocates of low protein diet allow 1 gram protein 
per kilogram weight ; Chittenden would decrease this 
to -85 crude protein, -75 digestible protein. 

In Calories the same man requires-^ 
2,500 for a sedentary life. 
47 



/ 



48 FOOD VALUES 

3,000 for light muscular work. 
3,500 for medium muscular work 
4,000 and upwards for very heavy toil. 

It is computed that all but about 8 per cent, of this 
is utilised. 

Compare these numbers with the dietaries which 
have been used as standards :^ 

Voit, original, nioderatf mnsniilar work 

Atwater, moderate muscular work 

Used by Rowntree and by Paton 
Atwater, for man at light work 



Fats and Carbohydrates. 
Voit, original standard 

This is often quoted as 



Atwater and later workers do not consider it necessary 
to specify how the Calories otherwise than those ob- 
tained from protein are to be divided-. But the propor- 
tion above — ^1-10 — is lower than in most diets, except 
(1) in hot countries, (2) where expense is the chief con- 
sideration. A proportion of 1-5 has been suggested 
as more suitable. 

Fat. Carbohydrates 
This would be about . . . . 80 . 400 

3 oz. 14 oz. 

The following computations of the materials contained 
in actual dietaries are useful for reference, though not 
necessarily for imitation : — 



p. 


c. 


•. 118 gr. 


.'^.OS^ 


41 oz. 




. 125 gr. 


.3,500 


41 oz. 




. 100 gr. 


2,700 


3| oz. 




Fat. Carbohydrates 


jrams. grams. 


56 


500 


2 oz. 


18 oz. 


50 


500 


IJ oz. 


18 oz. 





T\ 0/ 6 i 

TABLES 





Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
Grams 


Calorics 


• Authority 


Individuals. 












Average inhabitant of 












various cities — 












London .... 


98 


60 


416 


2665 


/Rubner 


Paris . . . . . 


98 


64 


465 


2903 


(from sta- 


Munich .... 


96 


65 


492 


3014 


1 tistics of 


Konigsberg . . . 


84 


31 


414 


2394 


1 municipal 
consump- 
\tion 


U.S.A. Farmers' Fami- 












lies, from food pur- 












chased .... 


101 


128 


476 


3560 


Atwater. 


U.S.A. Mechanics' 












Families, ditto 


113 


153 


420 


3605 


>j 


U.S.A. Professional 












Man's families, ditto 


110 


136 


442 


3530 


,, 


Professional Man . 


104 


126 


423 


3325 


„ 


Boarding house, N.Y.. 


114 


150 


522 


4002 


>> 


Students' Clubs, U.S.A. 


105 


147 


465 


3705 


„ 


Labourers in Edinburgh 


107 


88 


479 


3228 


Paton & 
Dunlop 


Poor Families in N. Y. & 












Philadelphia (mean) 


108 


— 


— 


3150 


Atwater 


English Labourer . . 


140 


34 


435 


2733 


J. Konig, 
1Q04 


French Labourer . . 


138 


80 


502 


3419 




Berlin Labourer . . 


98 


69 


490 


3075 


J» 


French-Canadia,n La- 












bourer .... 


108 


— 


— 


3586 


Atwater 


German Factory Opera- 












tive .... 


143 


— 


— 


4170 


Atwater 


Swedish Factory Opera- 












tive 


161 


— 


— 


4080 


>» 


Russian Factory Opera- 












tive .... 


113 


— 


— 


3061 


j» 


x^merican Factory Oper- 












ative .... 


127 


— 


— 


4415 


„ 


French-Canadian Fac- 












tory Operative 


123 


— 




4620 


" 



50 



FOOD VALUES 





Protein 
Grams 


Fat , 
Grams 


Carbo- , 
lydrates! 
Grams j 


Calories 


Authority 


U.S. Army i . . . 


120 


161 


454 


3851 


Atwater 


U.S. Navy .... 


143 


184 


520 


4998 


,, 


Requirements of Sea- 
men's Federation. 


170 






4526 


Paton- 


Institutions. 










Dunlop 


Workhouses — 












English .... 
„ (York) . . 


138 
136 


: 


: 


3381 
3702 


Paton- 

Dunlop 
Rowntree 


Scottish .... 


113 


— 


— 


2381 


Paton- 


Lunatic Asylums 


136 






3435 


Dunlop 


Prisons — 












• Scottish and English 












(mean) — 












Ordinary prisoners 
Convicts with hard 


134 


— 




3075 


>» 


labour . . . 


175 


— 




3938 


>> 


Hospital — English . . 


107 


69 


533 


3266 


Rubner 


Women. 












U.S.A. Women Students' 












Clubs 2 . . . . 


101 


139 


414 


3405 


Atwater 


Sewing girl, London, 
getting 3s. 9d. per 
week .... 


53 


33 


316 


1820 


>» 


Factory girl, Leipzig . 


52 


53 


301 


! 1940 




Old People. 








1 




Men 


92 


45 


332 


2149 


Forster 


Women 


80 


49 


266 


1875 



1 The mast recent report on English soldiers' diet was issued 
in 1889. It was then compared with that of other European 
countries, and found to be the most plentiful in meat. Switzer- 
land and France came next, then Austria. Germany is low on 
the list, so is Russia. England has a smaller bread allowance than 
Germany. Russia's bread allowance is very large, 2^ lb. Dr. Dun- 
lop has calculated the daily ration at Ladysmith at the end of the 
siege to have been equivalent to 73*4 gr. protein, 1,527 Calories. 

2 Compare with similar men's clubs above. The difference 
is not great. 





TABLES 




51 


For Climate Comparisons. 






Average 
Body 
Weight 


Protein 


Calories 


Authority 


Eskimo .... 


65 


282 


2604 


Lusk 


European 

Bengali .... 


70 
50 


118 

282 


3055 
2390 


1 



Requirements of the Body in Water. 

About two-thirds of the weight of the body consists of 
water. From 4 to 4J pints are excreted by an average 
man daily. This quantity should therefore be taken in 
the diet. Ordinary solid food contains from 1 to IJ 
pints. 

Therefore, a quantity between 2 and 3 pints should be 
drunk as Hquid. 

A greater use of pure cold water than is customary is 
recommended by more than one authority. 

Requirements of the Body in Mineral Salts. ^ 

A body weighing 154 lb. contains about 8 lb. 12 oz. 
of mineral matter. In this there is estimated to be 



Calcium phosphate | 

„ carbonate ) ' ' 

Magnesium phosphate .... 

Sodium sulphate, phosphate and carbonate 
Potassium sulphate, phosphate and carbonate 
Silica ....... 



lb. oz. 



•08 

70 

2-2 

1-7 

•1 



and iron, iodine and fluorine in smaller quantity. 
* Tibbies, Foods, their Origin, etc. 



52 FOOD VALUES 

Food may be arranged in the following order according 
to the contribution of minerals generally : — 

1. Pulses and cereals. 

2. Vegetables. 
i 3. Meat. 

4. Fruit, including nuts. 

The following list was given by Bunge 
according to the contribution of iron : — 

Spinach (and other green vegetables). 
Yolk of egg. 
Beef. 
Apples. 
f' Lentils, beans, peas. 

Strawberries. 
White of Egg. 
Wheat. 
Potato. 
Milk. 

Cheese and butter are also deficient in iron ; oatmeal 
rice and maize contain more than wheat. 

Milk, eggs, cereals and vegetables supply 
this ; meat, fish, potatoes, fruit are deficient. 

Animal foods in order. Vegetable foods in order 

Phos- Cheese (certain sorts) Haricot beans. 
phorus. ^ ' 



Mutton. 


Barley. 


Cheese (other sorts). 


Chestnuts. 


Eggs. 


Potato. 


Beef. 


Cabbage. 


Milk. 


Turnips. 


Pork. 


Carrot. 



Salt. 



amount. 



TABLES 



63 



About 15 grams (J oz.) is excreted daily. 
This should therefore be a sufficient daily 



TABLE II. {See also Chapter IV) 

Dietary Requirements of Women, Children and 
Old People. 

Atwater's Table, Unaltered. 



Average man at moderate muscular 


aboui 


. 1 


A woman 




. -8 


Boy 14-16 








. -8 


Girl 14-16 








. -7 


Child 10-13 








. -6 


„ 6-9. 








. -5 


„ 2-5. 








. -4 


„ under 2 








. -3 


Modifications : — 






1 





(1) A woman may be taken at -85 or -9 of the average 
man, or her needs may be estimated directly according 
to her calling — 





- Calories. 


Protein. 


Sedentary work. 


. 2,000 


. 70-80' 


Machine-minders 


. 2,200 


. 80 


Domestic work . 


. 2,500-3,200 . 


. 100 


Hard physical labour. 


. 2,900-3,700 . 


. 120 



(2) To both boys and girls from 10 to 16 may be 
assigned a larger proportion ; say y\) larger — one figure 
higher in each case. 

(3) For men over 60 -9 is suggested. For old age 
•8 or less, see Bowley, p. 46. 



<S^t?/ TABLE III 



General Table for Food Values ot- Food as 
Purchased. 

To be used in calculating the amount of protein and 
other food material in a weekly or daily diet, from the 
household accounts. 

Any article of food not mentioned here may be found 
in later tables. The analyses are chiefly American, 
as there has' been so much useful material supplied by 
the U.S.A. Department of Agriculture, in a convenient 
form. But wherever possible British analyses of recent 
date have been substituted, because there are often 
noticeable differences in the character of the food sup- 
pUed in the different countries. Beef is differently cut ; 
and prepared foods may have different compositions. 



Food 




Average of beef, veal and mutton 
f, average . . . . 

Best cuts 

„ Shank (hock or shin) 
Mutton, average of leg, shoulder 

and neck 

Veal 

Pork 

Ham 

Bacon 

Sausages, Pork ^ .... 
„ German .... 



Protein 
per cent. 


Fat 
per cent. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
per cent. 


14-5 


161 




15-2 


15-5 


— ■ 


16-4 


16-9 


— 


114 


4-5 


— 


13-8 


171 





15-6 


6-3 


— ' 


12 


29-8 


— 


14-5 


33-2 


— 


9-5 


59-4 


— 


12-3 


21 


M 


16-6 


17-9 


•5 



Calories 
per lb. 



913 

935 

1020 

405 

977 
535 
1477 
1670 
2685 
1132 
1070 






^ There is very large variation in the composition of these, 
in the amount of fat, and also in the amount of bread or other 
carbohydrate material introduced. , ^ .a, 








(^0 J cT 



TABLES 



Food 



Tongue, Tinned Ox- ^ . . . 
Corned Beef, Tinned ^ . . . 
Mutton, Tinned ^ . . . . 
Fowl (average of U.S.A. figures) 

Duck 

Rabbit 

Potted Meat ^ 

Fish, general average as sold . 

,, ,, ,, without refuse 

„ rich in fat, as Herring . 

„ ditto Salmon . 

,, Medium fat, as Halibut 
Mackerel, Mullet . . 

„ not fat, as Cod, Haddock . 
^Molluscs (Lobster, Crab, Shrimp) 
Herring, Salt (average) 

„ Smoked (average) 
Haddock, Smoked .... 

Salmon, Tinned 

Sardines, Tinned. . . 
Eggs (weight 2 oz. in shell) . 
Milk 2 (20 oz. to pint) . . . 

„ Skim 

„ Buttermilk .... 

„ Condensed, unsweetened 

„ Condensed, sweetened . 
Cream,- thin 

„ thick 

Butter 

Margarine 

Lard 

Suet 

Cheese ^ 




-- 


588 


— 


330 


— 


220^ 


— 


837 


— 


592 


— " 


347 


— 


658 


— 


614 


— 


613 


5 


322 


51 


170 


4-8 


160 


11-2 


780 


51-5 


1693 


4-5 


908 


2-2 


2912 


— 


3510 


— 


3520 


— 


4000 


— 


3540 


24 


1950 



^ Tinned meat is more concentrated food than fresh. As 
an average 1 lb. is equal to about \\ lbs. fresh meat. 
- Subject to considerable variation. 





56 



FOOD VALUES 



Food 



I Protein 
per cent. 



Flour (average) . 
Bread (average . 
Cakes ^ (average) 
Biscuit ^ (average) . 
Barley (Pearl) 

Cornflour 

Macaroni 

Rice 

Sago 

Semolina ' 

Tapioca 

Sugar, White 

„ Brown 
Syrup, Golden 

Jaiin 

Dried Fruit (currants 

raisins, average) 
Dry Pulses — 

Beans 

Lentils 



and 



Nuts in shells ^ 

Potatoes 

Onions, Carrots, Turnips, etc.^ 
Green Vegetables » . . . . 

„ Salads 

Tomatoes 

Bananas 

Fruit, (average) 

Cocoa * 

Chocolate (solid) .... 
Beer 



11-4 
9-2 
6-3 
8.3 
7-4 

10-9 
7-4 
0-2 

12 
0-3 



24 
•6 

1-8 

231 

24-8 

22-6 

16 

1-8 

1-3 

1-4 

10 

0-9 

1-3 

0-4 

21-6 

12-9 

•6 



Fat 
per cent. 



1 

1-3 

9 

9 

1-2 

0-6 
•4 

02 
•7 
•2 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
per cent. 



74-8 
631 
63-3 
75 
76-7 
90 
75-9 
79-2 
86-7 
76 
88 
100 
95 
69-3 
61 



Calories 
per lb. 



1650 
1215 
1670 
1935 
1615 
1670 
1636 
1620 



3cri' 



3-8 


69-3 


2-3 


53-6 


1-8 


54-8 


1-7 


53-2 


60 


12 


01 


14-7 


•3 


8 


•2 


4-8 


— 


30 


•4 


3-9 


•6 


21 


•5 


8 


28-9 


377 


48-7 


30-3 


— 


1-3 



1662 

1686 

17902 

17002 

1330 

1146 

1480 

1520 

1552 

1464 

3040 

310 

184 

145 

65 

105 

440 

180 

2320 

2855 

35 



^ Considerable variation. 
' Lusk's figures. 



3 Much of the food value may be wasted if cooked in a large 
quantity of water. See Tables xxv-xxvii. 

^ The nutritive contents of tea and coffee are negligible. 



UuD 




TABLES 



57 



Fuller Tables of Analysis; to he used for the 
consideration of any food in detail, or any 
dish in which it occurs ; particularly with 
reference to its price, 

TABLE IV. 
Meat. 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Calories 
per lb. 


Bbef.i 














Brisket .... 


23-3 


416 


12 


22-3 


0-6 


1165 


Flank .... 


5-5 


561 


18-6 


19-9 


0-8 


1185 


Loin (whole) . . 


13-3 


62-9 


16-4 


16-9 


0-9 


1020 


Steak (porter-house) 


12-7 


52-4 


191 


17-9 


0-8 


lUO 


Ribs 


201 


45-3 


14-4 


20 


0-7 


lUO 


Round (best) . . 


8-5 


62-5 


19-2 


9-2 


1 


745 


, 2nd cut . 


19-5 


56-2 


16-4 


6-9 


0-9 


595 


Rump .... 


19 


46-9 


15-2 


18-6 


0-8 


1065 


Shank (fore) or shin 


38-3 


43-2 


13-2 


5-2 


0-6 


465 


Shank (hind) or hock 


55-4 


31 


9-7 


3-9 


0-4 


345 


Beef Organs. 














Ox Heart . . . 


5-9 


53-2 


14-8 


247 


0-9 • 


1320 


„ Kidney . . 


19-9 


631 


13-7 


1-9 


1 


335 


„ Liver . . . 


7-3 


65-6 


201 


3-P 


1-3 


555 


„ Tongue . . 


26-5 


51-8 


141 


6-7 


0-8 


545 


Tripe .... 


\ 


? 


14U 


31 


— 


392 


Salt Beef. 














Brisket .... 


214 


40 


14-4 


19-4 


4-5 


1085 


Rump .... 


6-0 


54-5 


14-3 


22 


31 


1195 


Veal. 














Breast .... 


24-5 


51-3 


15-3 


8-6 


0-8 


645 


Cutlets .... 


3-4 


68-3 


201 


75 


1 


690 


Leg 


11-7 


63-4 


18-3 


5-8 


1 


585 



^ These are almost all Atwater's analyses ; but the ox carcase 
is differently cut, and the parts somewhat differently named in 
America. The cuts quoted are as nearly as possible those 
usual in England. x411 the analyses are for the meat as pur- 
chased, beef and all succeeding items. 

2 Also 2-5 per cent, of the carbohydrate glycogen, a substance 
resembling starch which is constantly formed in the liver from 
sugar. 



58 



FOOD VALUES 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Calories 
per lb. 


Loin 


18-9 


56-3 


161 


8-2 


0-9 


645 


Rump .... 


30-2 


437 


13-8 


11-3 


0-8 


735 


Shoulder (lean) 


18-3 


59-9 


16-9 


3-9 


1 


480 


Liver .... 


— 


73 


19 


5-3 


1.^ 


575 


Lamb. 














Breast .... 


191 


45-5 


15-4 


191 


0-8 


1090 


Leg 


13-8 


50-3 


160 


19-7 


0-9 


1130 


Loin 


14-8 


45-3 


160 


241 


0-8 


1315 


Neck .... 


17-7 


46-7 


14-6 


20-4 


0-8 


1135 


Shoulder 


20-3 


41-3 


14-4 


23-6 


0-8 


1265 


Forequarter 


18-8 


44-7 


14-9 


21 


0-8 


1165 


Hindquarter . . 


15-7 


51-3 


16-5 


161 


0-9 


985 


Mutton. 














Leg 


17-7 


51-9 


15-4 


14-5 


0-8 


900 


Loin 


14-8 


40-4 


131 


31-5 


0-6 


1575 


Neck .... 


26-4 


41-5 


12-2 


19-6 


0-7 


1055 


Shoulder 


221 


46-8 


13-7 


171 


0-7 


975 


Forequarter 


21-2 


41-6 


12-3 


24-5 


0-7 


1265 


Hindquarter . 


17-2 


45-4 


13-8 


23-2 


0-7 


1235 


Heart .... 


— 


69-5 


16-9 


12-6 


0-9 


845 


Kidneys 


— 


78-7 


16-5 


3-2 


1-3 


440 


Liver .... 


— 


-61-2 


231 


91 


1-7 


905 


Pork. 














Head .... 


68-4 


13-8 


41 


13-8 


0-2 


660 


Loin chops 


19-3 


40-8 


13-2 


26-0 


0-8 


1340 


Middle loin 


19-7 


38-6 


12-7 


28-9 


0-7 


1455 


Shoulder 


12-4 


44-9 


120 


29-8 


0-7 


1480 


Leg 


10-3 


451 


14-3 


29-7 


. 0-8 


1520 


Feet .... 


741 


14-3 


41 


6-9 


0-2 


365 


Liver .... 


— 


71-4 


21-3 


,4-52 


1-4 


615 


Heart .... 


— 


75-6 


171 


63 

Carbo- 


10 


585 




Water 


Protein 


Fat 


hydrates 


Ash 


Calorics 


Pork Sausages . 


55 


12-3 


21 


10 


2-5 


1130 


„ Cambridge 


51-5 


9-5 


29-7 


2-2 


3-5 


1450 


Sausage, German . 


46-5 


16-6 


17-9 


150 


4-5 


1340 


Polony .... 


450 


17-3 


32-6 


0-5 


2-8 


1695 



^ Carbohydrate (glycogen) 5 per cent. 
- Carbohydrate (glycogen) 1*4 per cent. 



TABLES 



59 



Cooked Meat as Purchased in U.S.A. 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Calories 
per lb. 


Roast Beef, slices. 




48-2 


22-3 


28-6 


1-3 


1620 


Roast Lamb (leg). 


— 


671 


19-7 


12-7 


0-8 


900 


Lamb Chops . 


13-5 


40-1 


18-4 


26-7 


12 


1470 


Roast Mutton, Leg 














(slices) . . 


— 


50-9 


25 


22-6 


1-2 


1420 



Comparison of Meat Raw and Cooked 
(Konig, quoted by Hutchison). 





Water 
per cent. 


Protein 
per cent. 


Fat 
per cent. 


Extrac- 
tives 
per cent. 


Min. 
Matter 
per cent. 


Beef, Raw. 


70-9 


22-51 


4-5 


0-9 


1-2 


„ Boiled . 


56-8 


341 


7-5 


0-4 


M 


„ Roasted . 


55-4 


34-2 


8-2 


•7 


1-4 


Veal Cutlets- 












Raw . . . 


71-6 


20-2 


6-4 


0-7 


M 


Roasted . . 


57-6 


29 


11-9 


•03 


1-4 



It is computed that generally 4 oz. cooked meat is 
produced from 5 oz. raw meat, the loss being a great- 
extent water. 



1 These are very high values. The nature of the beef is not 
described but it seems to have been lean meat from a first-class 
cut. 



60 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE V. 
Poultry (chiefly from Farmers' Bulletin No. 34). 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Calories 
per lb. 


Chickens, Young, 














U.S.A. 


18-8 


§5-5 


17-8 


7-2 


0-9 


635 


„ Dark Meat 


— 


701 


20-8 


8-2 


1-2 


730 


„ Light Meat 


— 


70-3 


21-9 


7-4 


11 


720 


Capon, U.S.A. . 


17-5 


46-8 


17-7 


17-5 


10 


1065 


,, Roast,English 














(flesh) . 


— 


59-9 


27 


11-5 


1-3 


985 


Other Fowls, U.S.A.' 


25-2 


47-3 


14-4 


12-6 


0-7 


800 


Turkey, U.S.A. . ' 


14-3 


49-2 


19 


16-2 


10 


1035 


Dark meat, cooked 


— 


53-7 


39-2 


4-3 


22 


910 


Light meat, cooked 


— 


58-5 


34-6 


4-9 


1-8 


850 


Duck, U.S.A. . . 


15-9 


51-4 


15-4 


160 


11 


960 


Goose, U.S.A. . . 


IM 


48 


14-8 


25-5 


10 


1350 


Pigeon, U.S.A. . 


13-6 


55-2 


19-7 


9-5 


1-3 


765 


Pheasant, U.S.A. . 


' 12 


61-5 


21-5 


4-2 


10 


580 



Soups, Jellies and Meat Exteacts. 

In making soup from meat it is customary to eliminate 
the fat as much as possible, but the assumption is that 
much of the protein will pass into the liquid. This is 
not the case. A large proportion remains in the meat, 
some passes into the water and coagulates there ; it will 
render the soup nutritious if it is not removed in the 
process of " clearing " to obtain a hquid without floccu- 
lent particles. Certain nitrogenous substances known as 
extractives pass readily into the w^ater, and impart the 
pleasant meaty flavour. They form good stimulants, 
especially to digestion, but have no food value. With 



TABLES 61 

most meat, and especially with bones, some quantity of 
gelatin passes into the soup. Gelatin is more nearly 
analogous to protein in its composition than are the 
extractives ; it has great food value, but no tissue- 
building value. 

Ordinary stock may be said to be about 93 per cent, 
water, at most 5 per cent, nutritive matter. In an 
experiment quoted by Wiley 1 lb. beef, and | lb. 
veal bones produced on concentration 1 pint of Hquid. 
with the composition. 

Water Protein Fat Extractives Ash Calories 

per cent. per cent. per cent. per cent. per cent. per lb. 

95-2 1-2 1-5 1-8 0-3 85 



A good home-made beef-tea has usually a composition 
of this kind : — 

88-0 8-0 — 3-5 1-5 150 

with salt 

A similar stock to which (1) pea-flour, (2) potatoes 
were added, had then the following composition. 

Nitrogenous Carbo- 

Water Matter Fat hydrates Ash 

Pea-flour soup . 88-3 3-4 0-9 6-3 l-I 

Potato soup . 91-0 1-4 1-5 5-1 1-0 



A clear soup contains only IJ to 2J per cent, solid 
matter. The following American analyses of soups are 
quoted by Tibbies. The presence of carbohydrates 
in all suggests that some vegetable material must have 
been added to the stock, even when not described, 
unless glycogen was present. 



62 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE VI 
Soups. 





Water 


Protein 


Fat 1 


Carho- 


1 

Ash 


Calories 




per cent. 


per cent. 


p— ^-i^r:^^ 


per cent. 


per lb. 


Soups, Home- 




• 










made. 














Beef 


92-9 


4-4 


0-4 


11 


1-2 


120 


Chicken. 


84-3 


10-5 


0-8 


2-4 


2-0 


275 


Meat .... 


84-5 


4-6 


4-3 


5-5 


11 


379 


Bean .... 


84-3 


3-2 


3-2 


9^ 


1-7 


295 


Tinned. 














Consomme . . 


96 


2-5 


— 


0-4 


11 


55 


Julienne 


96 


27 


— 


0-5 


0-9 


60 


Mock Turtle . . 


89-8 


5-2 


0-9 


2'8 


1-3 


185 


Mulligatawny . 


89-3 


37 


01 


5-7 


1-2 


180 


Oxtail .... 


88-8 


4-0 


1-3 


4-3 


1-6. 


210 


Pea . . . . . 


86-9 


3-6 


0-7 


7-6 


1-2 


235 


Tomato 


90 


1-8 


11 


5-6 


1-5 


185 


Turtle .... 


86-6 


61 


1-9 


3-9 


1-5 


165 



Soup Tablets. — The only analyses at present avail- 
able are of two German preparations (see Wynter 
Blyth). 

Condensed Pea 

soup . . 7-6 16-9 9-0 53-4 117 1342 



Pea-meat 
lets 



Tab- 



121 31-2 31 47-5 



6-2 1591 



Bones and Gelatin. — " Bones, etc." in RowTitree's 
table contains protein 9 7, fat 3-9 ; but, unless the 
protein came from the "etc." gelatin is the more 
likely nitrogenous material from bones. Hutchison 
says that bones may contain 



Water 
per cent. 

5-50 



Gelatin 
per cent. 

15-50 



Fat 
per cent. 

i-20 



Ash 
per cent. 

20-70 



TABLES 



63 



The composition of gelatin itself, and of isinglass, a 
fish derivative of the same nature but much more ex- 
pensive, and of jelly, are given by him thus — 



TABLE 
Gelatin and 


VIA 

Jelly 








Water 
per cent. 


Nitro- 
genovre 
matter 
per cent. 


per cent. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
per cent. 


Ash 

I)er cent. 


Calories 
per lb. 


Gelatin .... 
Isinglass . . . 
Calves' Foot Jelly 


13-6 

19 

77-6 


91-4 

89-3 

4-3 


01 
1-6 


l74 


21 
2 

0-7 


1705 

1730 

405 



It will be seen that the gelatinous nitrogenous sub- 
stance has a good fuel value ; but then 2 per cent, is 
the usual quantity of it in a jelly ; and even a 1 per 
cent, solution wdll set. 



64 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE VII 
Meat Extracts and Juices (from Hutchison). 



" 




Protein 








Water 




Sixtrac- 


ftrineral 






Insolublel Soluble 


tives 


Mat-t^r 


Extracts — 










Oxo 


39-7 


4-6 13-5 


241 


18 


Lemco 


171 


141 


90 


5-7 


Nursing Oxo . 


23-3 


5-8 33-5 


21.7 


15-7 


Bovril 


381 


8-4' 3-8 


31-8 


17-9 


Invalid Bovril 


21-8 


- 214 


39-6 


17-2 


Brand's Essence . 


87-2 


— 5-4 


10 


1-4 


' 




5-0 
gelatin 






Armour . . . . . 


24-3 


— 14-5 


40-6 


19 


Meat Juices — ^ 










Valentine's .... 


51-2 


9-7 


11-2 


1-8 


Armour's .... 


741 


8-3 


9-5 


7-5 


Brand's .... 


59-2 


15-5 


16-6 


8-8 


Hipi (Extract of Mutton 


35-2 


7-7 1-2 


16-6 


8-4 


Vegetable extract from 










yeast— 




. 






Marmite * . . . . 


26-8 


10-5 


34-7 


27 



The quantity of each of these extracts used at a time 
is of course very small ; between \ and \ oz. for one 
person. 



Supplied by makers. 



TABLES 



65 







TABLE 


VIII 












Fish J 


L 




Food 


Edible Portion 










iteiiise 




* Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Calories 
per lb. i 


Cod . . 


82-6 


16-5 


•4 


1-2 


325 52-5 (whole) 


Eel 


71-6 


18-6 


91 


1-0 


730 


20-2 (dressed) 


Flounder 


84-2 


14-2 


0-6 


1-3 


290 


57-0 (dressed) 


Haddock 


81-7 


17-2 


0-3 


i-2 


335 


51-0 (dressed) 


Halibut 


75-4 


18-6 


5-2 


1-0 


565 jl7-7 (dressed) 


Herring 


72-5 


19-5 


71 


1-5 


660 1 42-6 (whole) 


Mackerel 


73-4 


18-7 


71 


1-2 


645 


34-6 (whole) 


Mullet . 


74-9 


19-5 


4-6 


1-2 


555 


57-9 (whole) 


Salmon . 


64-6 


22 


12-8 


1-4 


950 





Smelt . 


79-2 


17-6 


1-8 


1-7 


405 


41-9 (whole) 


Trout, Rive 


r 77-8 


19-2 


21 


1-2 


445 48-1 (whole) 


„ Salmor 


I 70-8 


17-8 


10-3 


1-2 


765 — 


Turbot . 


71-4 


14-8 


14-4 


1-3 


885 47-7 (whole) 


Cod, dry salt 


81-5 


16-2 


•74 


1-56 


305 25 


Herring, sail 


46-2 


18-9 


16-9 


16-4 


1065 44 


„ Smokec 


69-5 


21 1 


8-5 


1-2 


620 — 


Mackerel, sa 


It 44-4 


19-2 


22-4 


13-8 


1165 20 


Sardines — 












Sicilian . 


50-2 


4-3 


12-7 


7-5 


615 1 -^ 


Sardinian 


40-7 


3-8 


23-7 


9 


1065 — 



1 The reader must note carefuUy that the percentages of 
protein, etc., given here are for the edible portion of the fish 
after the refuse (bone, skin, etc.), are removed. The figures 
are taken from Hutchison's Food and the Principles of Dietetics. 
The percentages of refuse (on the right), are from Farmers' 
Bulletin No. 85, U.S.A. Department of Agriculture. 



m 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE IX 
Eggs. {Farmer's Bulletin) No. 128 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Calories 


Hens' 1 as purchased 














Aver, weight, 2 oz. 


11-2 


65-5 


11-9 


9-3 


0-9 


613. 


Edible portion . 




73-7 


13-4 


10-5 


1-0 


690 


White . . . 




86-2 


12-3 


0-2 


0-6 


237 


Yolk .... 


— 


49-5 


15-7 


33-3 


11 


1693 


Boiled, edible por- 














tion . . . 


— 


73-3 


13-2 


120 


0-8 


750 


White-shelled eggs. 














as purchased . 


10-7 


65-6 


11-8 


10-8 


-0-6 


675 


Brown-shelled eggs. 














as purchased . 


10-9 


64-8 


11-9 


11-2 


0-7 


695 


Ducks' eggs, as pur- 














chased . . 


13-7 


60-8 


121 


12-5 


0-8 


750 


Turkeys' eggs, [as 














purchased 


13-8 


63-5 


12-2 


9-7 


0-8 


635 


Plover eggs, as pur- 














chased . . 


9-6 


67-3 


9-7 


10-6 


0-9 


625 


Dried Egg Powder, 














European. . ! 


— 


6-4 


46-7 


39-5 


4-4 


2530 


Evaporated Hens' 














eggs, U.S.A. 




6. 


46-9 


36 

Carbohyc 


13-6 

Irates 7-1 


2525 



* A hen's egg is roughly 12 per cent, shell, 58 per cent, white, 
and 30 per cent. yolk. 



TABLES 



67 



TABLE X 
Egg Powders and Custard Powders.^ 





Starch 


Albu- 
minous 

Com- 
poTinds 


Colour- 
ing 


Soda 


Tar- 
taric 
Acid 


Phos- 
phoric 
Acid 


Water 


Bird's Cas- 
















tard . . 


86-2 


0-59 


0-88 


- _i_ 







11-8 


Goodall's 
















Custard . 


84-4 


0-58 


•9 










13-7 


Goodall's Egg 
















Powder ^ . 


5103 


601 


_ — 


16-3 


13-7 


0-24 


11 


Borwick's 
















Egg Pow- 
















der 


26-4 


3-0 


— 


50-7 


10-3 


— 


9-6 


Yeatman's 










• 






Egg Pow- 
















der . . 


52-3 


6 


— 


221 


11-4 


— 


8-2 


Model Egg 
















Powder . 


53-8 


5 




26-7 


6-2 


— 


8-2 



MILK 

No useful table can be given for variation in cows' 
milk, as this variation depends on (1) the breed of cow, 
(2) what food it takes, (3) the season, (4) the time of day, 
as well as on other conditions. Milk for inspection is 
required to contain at least 3J per cent, fat, and about 
12 per cent, total solids ; i.e. not more than 88 per cent, 
water. The content of fat may be as great as 6 or 8 
per cent. Generally the amount of lactose or milk 

1 Analyses quoted by Hutchison from an article in Food and 
Sanitation, 1893. 

2 Contains in addition 2*7 per cent, of carbonates of lime and 
magnesia. 



68 



FOOD VALUES 



sugar is complementary to this. The protein varies 
from 2 J to 3 J per cent. In the following table the 
difference between human and cows' milk should be 
noted carefully as important in the feeding of infants. 



TABLE XI 
Milk of Various Kinds (chiefly from Lusk). 



Kind 


Water 


Total 
Solids 


Casein 


Albu- 
min 


Total 
Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


MUk 

Sugar 


Ash 


Calo- 
ries 
per lb. 


Human 


87-6 


12-6 


0-8 


1-2 


20 


3-7 


6-4 


0-3 


310 


Cow , . 


87-3 


12-8 


2-9 


0-5 


3-4 


3-7 


49 


0-7 


310 


Goat . 


86-9 


131 


2-9 


0-9 


3-8 


41 


4-6 


0-8 


315 


Sheep . 


83-6 


16-4 


42 


1 


5-2 


61 


4-7 


1 


410 


Reindeer 


67-2 




8-4 


1-5 


9-9 


171 


2-8 


1-5 


976 


Mare . 


90-6 


9-9 


1-3 


•7 


2 


M 


5-9 


0-4 


192 


Ass . . 


901 


10-4 


0-8 


M 


1-9 


1-4 


6-2 


0-5 


215 



Condensed Milk. — The unsweetened should be diluted 
to three times its bulk (I of milk to 2 of water) to 
be the same strength as ordinary milk. About the 
same dilution would make the sweetened milk equivalent 
to fresh milk in content of protein and fat, but it is 
generally much more diluted because of its sweetness. 
A dilution to 4 times its bulk gives protein 2-2, and 
fat 34, which is dilute as regards these nutrients, but 
still too sweet for general use. 

Cheap condensed milks are skim milks, and very 
deficient in fat, containing only about 1-5 per cent. 
They are always sweetened. 

The following analyses of condensed milk are taken, 
with slight modifications, from Chalmers Watson, 
Food and Feeding. 



TABLES 



69 



TABLE XII 
Condensed Milks. 



1 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Lactose 


Cane Sugar 


Unsweetened. 








■ 




Ideal . . . 


62 


8-3 


124 


16 


— 


First Swiss 


62-2 


9-9 


11-3 


144 


— 


Hollandia . 


57 


11-3 


9-8 


18-5 


— 


Sweetened. 












Nestle . . . 


22-8 


9-7 


13-7 


150 


37-2 


Rose . . . 


234 


8-3 


124 


17-6 


36-3 


Milkmaid . 


23-7 


9-7 


110 


1 14-6 


38-7 


FuU Weight . 


23-5 


12-3 


110 


13-5 


37-2 


Anglo-Swiss . 


25-6 


8-8 


10-8 

1 


16 


371 



TABXE XIU 
Melting Points of Butter and Other Fats. 
The following is a Table from Wynter Blyth of the 



bmg points of dilte 


rent 


tats: 


— 




Margarine 


. 31.3° C 


Cocoa butter . 








. 34*9 


Butter . 








. 35-8 


Beef dripping 








. 43-8 


Veal dripping 








. 47-7 


Mixed dripping 








. 42-6 


Lard . 








. 42-45 


Beef fat 








. 48-53 


Mutton fat 








. 50-51 



70 



FOOD VALUES 



The following are taken chiefly from Wynter 
Blyth : — 

TABLE XIV 
Different Kinds of Cheese. 



Name 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Ash 


Calories 
per lb. 


American cheese 


) 










(average) 


27-4 


30 


32-4 


41 


1918 


Camembert . 


45-6 


26-5 


32-2 


4-2 


1846 


Cheddar . . 


32 


34-2 


261 


3-8^ 


1731 


Cheshire . 


421 


281 


31-5 


4-5 


1849 


Cream 


57-6 


19 


39-3 


3-4 


2232 


Dutch . . 


39-6 


30 


11-5 


6-4 


1040 


Gorgonzola . 


39-2 


25-9 


26-9 


4-7 


1600 


Gloucester, doub 


le 35-5 


30 


25 


4-6 


1609 


single 


3 21-4 


48-1 


25-4 


41 


1962 


Gruyere 


34 


291 


291 


3-9 


1787 


Neiichatel . . 


37-9 


231 


413 


3-4 


2168 


Parmesan . 


32-5 


171 


171 


6-2 


1517 


Roquefort . 


29-6 


27-8 


30-3 


6-7 * 


1790 


Skim Milk Chees 


e 431 


48 


•9 


6-2 


1270 


Stilton . 


37-6 


23-9 


38-9 


31 


2080 


St. Ivel 


35-9 


23-6 


35 


3-7 


1808 


Wensleydale 


28-3 


26-8 


38-3 


3-7 


2104 


Brie . . 


51-9 


18-5 


24-8 


5 


1387 



TABLES 



71 



WHEAT AND OTHER CEREALS ; FLOUR ; 
BREAD 

TABLE XV 

Cereals Arranged in the Order of their Richness 
IN Various Constituents (from Hutchison). 



Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrates 


Mineral Matter 


(Most) Oats 


Oats 


Rice 


Barley 


Wheat 


Maize 


jRye 
(Wheat 


(Millet - 
(Buckwheat 


j Millet 

( Buckwheat 


Millet 


( Buckwheat 

JRye 


/ Barley 


rOats 

(Rye 


(Rye 


] Maize 
^MiUet 


1 Barley 


Wheat 


Wheat 


Maize 


Barley 


Buckwheat 


Maize 


(Least) Rice 




Oats 


Rice 



TABLE XVI' 



Analyses of Various Grains. 












Carboliydrates 




pr 




Water 


Protein 


Fat 






Asli 




Crain 


Starcli 




per lb. 










and 


Fibre 










10 


4-3 


Sugar 








Maize . . 


10-8 


71-7 


1-7 


1-5 


1700 


Barley . . 


10-9 


11 


2-3 


69-5 


3-8 


2-5 


1595 


Oats . . . 


110 


11-8 


50 


59-7 


9-5 


3-0 


1540 


Rice. . . 


120 


8 


2-0 


760 


1 


1-0 


1645 


Rye . . 


10-5 


12-2 


1-5 


71-8 


21 


1-9 


1625 


Wheat . . 


10-6 


12-2 


1-7 


71-3 


2-4 


1-8 


1625 


Buckwheat. 


12-6 


10 


2-2 


64-5 


8-7 


2-0 


1480 



74.6' 



1 Farmers' Bulletin No. 298. Indian Corn. 



/S-Tj 




/ ^ 



72 



FpOD VALUE 



TABLE XVII 



l^ 



IV 



Meals and Flours from Various Cereals (from 
Hutchison). 



Meal 


Water 
per 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 
per 


Carbc i C«n^- 
hydrates' ^^^ 


Min. 

Matter 


1 

Calories 
per lb. 




cent. 


per 
cent. 


cent. 


^'^"^H ^1 


per cent. 


Wheat meal 


121 


12-9 


1-9 


1 

70-3 j 1-6 


1-2 


1625 


„ flour 


13-0 


9-5 


0-8 


75-3 i 0-7 


0-7 


1610 


Oatmeal . 


7-2 


14-2 


7-3 


65-9 3-5 


1-9 


1795 


RoUed Oats 


7-2 


15-4 


7-2 


64-8 '' 3-5 


1-9 


1790 


Barley Meal 


11-9 


100 


2-2 


71-5 j 1-8 


2-6 


1605 


Pearl Barley 


12-7 


7-4 


1-2 


76-7 1 0-8 


1-2 


1615 


Coarse Rye Flour 


11-4 


15-3 


21 


66-7 2-3 


2-2 


1610 


Ditto finest 


11-2 


6-7 


0-9 


80-0 0-8 


0-4 


1650 


Maize Meal 


114 


8-5 


46 


72-8 1-4 


1-3 


1705 


„ fine 


12-5 


6-8 


1-3 


78 0-8 


0-6 


1630 


Buckwheat Flour 


14 


71 


1-2 


75-9 0-6 


1-2 


1690 , 


Rizine(flakedrice) 


11-7 


7-9 


0-5 


79-5 — 


0-4 


1645/ 



The comparison of flours obtained by different ways 
of treating the wheat grain is one from which it is 
exceedingly difficult to draw conclusions. It has been 
pointed out by more than one authority on the subject 
that the white flour from two different varieties of wheat 
wiU sometimes show more variation than the white and 
whole-meal flour from the same variety. The diffi- 
culties increase when we pass on to bread ; in which the 
water content may vary so much as to modify the 
protein content more than any other factor. Lastly, 
the digestibihty of the protein in the different parts of 
the wheat grain is not the same. It is hoped that the 
various tables subjoined will lead readers to draw their 
own conclusions on a somewhat controversial point. 
At any rate they will cease to give credence to violent 



TABLES 



73 



statements about the non-nutritiveness of white bread, 
and the marvellous nutritive properties of whole-meal 
bread. 



TABLE XVIII 

Flours Prepared from Different Wheats in U.S.A. 
(see Bulletin 389.) 

" Standard patent " flour seems to resemble our white 
flour ; " entire wheat " behes its name, as it consists of 
only about three-quarters of the wheat grain ; Graham 
flour is, however, whole-meal flour. 





Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Oklahoma Wheat 












Flour. 












Standard Patent 


9-9 


151 


•9 


73-6 


•5 


Entire Wheat . . 


7-5 


16-6 


1-6 


73 


1-2 


Graham .... 


7-7 


16-8 


1-8 


72-3 


1-3 


Oregon Wheat 












Flour. 












Standard Patent 


8-9 


7-5 


1-3 


81-8 


4 


Entire Wheat . . 


8-7 


8-3 


1-7 


80-4 


11 


Graham .... 


8-2 


9* 


1-7 


79-5 


1-7 


Minnesota Wheat 












Flour. 












Standard Patent 


10-5 


12 


1-6 


754 


•5 


Entire Wheat . . 


10-8 


12-3 


2-2 


73-7 


10 


Graham .... 


8-6 


12-6 


24 


74-6 


1-7 



It will be noticed that in each list the amount of 
protein, fat, and mineral matter present increases, where- 
as the amount of carbohydrate decreases as we pass 
from white to whole-meal flour. A similar set (from 



74 FOOD VALUES ' 

Farmers' Bidletin No. 249) gives the following increase 
in fibrous matter present in each specimen.. 

Fibre. 
Patent roller process flour 0*3 per cent. 

" Entke wheat " flour . . .0-9 

Graham flour . . 1.8 „ 

Bread made from these floui's shows a similar gradation 
in content of protein and the other ingredients. For 
instance, the analysis of the bread made from the three 
different grades of flour prepared from Oregon wheat, 
is as follows — 
Oregon Wheat Flour Bread 

(water free) — Protein. Fat. Carbohydrates. Asli. 

Standard Patent Bread . . 16-2 1 82 '1 

"Entire Wheat "Bread . . 18-1 1-8 78-8 1.6 

Graham Bread . . 18-4 1-9 77-1 2-5 

Reference may now be made to the Table giving the 
digestibihty of the food materials in the different parts 
of a mixed diet. But for convenience the percentages 
for bread of various kinds are quoted here, from Farmers* 
Bulletin No. 389. 

Protein. Carboliydrates. 

Standard patent flour . . .88-6 97-7 

" Entire Wheat " flour . . .82 93-5 

Graham flour 74-9 89-2 

Calculating from these figures the digestible material 
in the Oregon wheat flour, the corrected percentages 
come out thus — 





Digestible 


^ Digestible 




Protein. ' 


Carbohydrates. 


Standard patent flour 


. 6-69 


79-9 


" Entire Wheat " flour . 


. 6-76 


75-2 


Graham flour . 


. 6-72 


70-9 



Readers anxious to obtain more figures on this subject 
should consult the Tables given at the end of Lusk's 
Science of Nutrition, whei'e the " available nutrients '' 



TABLES 



75 



— those actually digested — are given for all foims of 
food. 

Some figures with regard to the changes undergone by 
flour in the conversion to bread will be useful. 



TABLE XIX 
Bread. Various Kinds (from Farmers' Bulletin 389.) 





Water Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Ash 


Flour .... 
Bread, from Flour, 

Water and Yeast 
Bread, with Skim Milk 

instead of Water 


1011 

361 

360 


12-5 

9-5 

10-6 


0t9 
0.4 
0-5 


761 
53-7 
52-6 


0-5 
0-3 
0-3 



With these may 


be compared. 










Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Ash 


Rye Bread . . . 
Rye and Wheat Bread 
Maize Bread (johnny 
cake) .... 


35-7 
35-3 

38-9 


9-0 
11-9 

7-9 


0-6 
0-3 

4-7 


53-2 
51-5 

46-3 


1-5 

1-0 

2-2 



Loss of nutritive material during cooking (from 
Hutchison) — 



Of Protein 
Of Fat . . 

Of Carbohydrates 
Of total Calories 



1-3 per cent. 
71 
3-2 „ 
5 



Alcohol present (from action of yeast). — It has been 
estimated that new bread contains 0-3 per cent, of 
alcohol. There is no appreciable quantity in stale bread. 
Loss of weight in drying— 



76 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE XX 
(From Goodfellow : Dietetic Value of Bread.) 



Hours 

In 12 
,.24 
» 36 

,, 48 
„ 60 

„ 72 



a 2 lb. loaf loses 
f OZ. water. 
f oz. 

If oz. 

2H oz. 

3^ oz. 

4| oz. 



Relative quantity of crust and crumb. — This naturally 
varies with the baking, as well as with the size of loaf. 
The following table was given for German bread by 
Birnbaum in 1878. 



TABLE XXI 





Weight of Loaf 


Percentage Crumb 


Percentage Crust 


I . . . 
II . . . 
m. . . 
IV. . . 


about 14 oz. 
» 31 „ 
„ 63 „ 

„ 70 „ 


55-2 
59-7 
64-3 
71-2 


44-8 
40-3 
35-7 

28-8 



TABLES 



77 



TABLE XXII 

Analyses of Patent Breads (selected from Hutchi 
son, Food and Dietetics). 



Bread 


Water 


l»rotein 


■ Carbo- 
hydrates 
-1- Fats 


Mineral 
Matter 


V.V. ...... 

Maltina (white) . . . 

Nevill 

Manhu 

Triticumina .... 
Nevill Wheatmeal . . 
Maltina (brown) . . . 
Daren (malted) . . . 
Cytos (containing germ 

and malt) ... 
Bermaline .... 
Hovis (brown) . . . 
Veda ....... 


40-4 
44-5 
37-5 
42-6 
43-6 
41-5 
451 
46-6 

42-3 
38 
45 
24-6 


7-5 
5-9 

7-2 

7-2 

7-3 

8 

7 

7-9 

81 
8-1 
9-9 
9-4 


51-6 

48-9 

54-6 

48-9 

47-6 

49-3 

46 

44-5 

48-3 
50-3 
42-3 
63-5 


0-6 

0-7 
0-7 
1-3 
1-5 
1-2 
1-9 
I 

1-3 
1-9 
1-2 

1-8 



Overleaf rice is compared with other grains. Apropos 
of the discussion on p. 19, the following analysis of 
polished and unpoHshed rice (also from Hutchison) 



will be interesting 







Carbo- Mineral 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. hydrates. Cellulose Matter. 


Rice (husk removed) 12-0 


7-2 


2-0 76-8 10 10 


„ (polished) . . 12-4 


6-9 


0-4 79-4 0-4 -5 



78 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE XXIII 

Analyses of Various Preparations from Wheat ; 
to which a few similar materials are added for com- 
parison. Most of these are quoted by Hutchison 
from work by Ballard. 





Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


iCellu- 
lose 


Ash 
Calories 




Macaroni (average) 


11.8 


• 
10-9 


0-6 


75-9 


0-3 


•6 


1636 


Vermicelli (average) 


10-4! 121 


0-8 


75-6 


0-33 


•8 


1665 


Pates d'ltalie . . 


104 12-5 


0-8 


75-2 


0-3 


•8 


1665 


Semolina (average) 


9-7 12 


07 


76 


0-5 


•6 


1660 


Rice 


12-4 


7-4 


0-4 


79-2 


0-2 


0-4 


1620 


Sago. . . ... 


14-2 


0-2 


0-2 


86-7 


0-2 


0-1 


1620 


Tapioca. . . . 


12-8 


0-3 


0-2 


88 


0-1 


01 


1685 


Cornflour (from 
















maize) . . 


10 


— 


— 


90 


— 


— 


1670 


Hominy (from 


• 














maize) 


10 


8-6 


0-6 


79-2 

Sol- In- 
uble soluble 


0-4 


0-3 


1680 


Force (as eaten) . 


9-3 


94 


1-4 


11-4 65-7 


— 


2-9 


1665 


Grape Nuts (as 
















eaten) . . . 


6-2 


120 


0-6 


42-7 365 


— 


2-0 


1720 



The above .mentioned foods from cereals (except 
Force and Grape Nuts) cannot be fairly compared with 
bread, unless we have analyses of their composition 
when cooked, as a small quantity of each suffices for a 
helping, when swollen in bulk by the process of 
cooking. Macaroni absorbs about 5 times its volume 
of water, rice about 3 times. 

The following analyses are due to Miss K. WiUiams, 
and date from about 1895, when the methods of analysis 
for protein and carbohydrates were not quite the same 



TABLES 



79 



as those of more recent statistics ; but the water con- 
tent will be comparable with the latter. 





TABLE XXIVa 








Cooked with water 


Water 


Protein i Fat 

1 


Carbo- 
liydrates 


Cellu- 
^se 


Ash 


Vermicelli . . . 

Semolina . . . 

Hominy. 

Sago 


87-1 
90-2 
86-6 
89 


1 
2-4 0-01 
1-9 0-08 
2-8 0-09 
1-4 0004 


10-8 
7-2 
9-9 
9-4 


0-07 
0-04 
016 
0-01 


013 
013 
0-02 
0-08 



The following are from Lusk's Tables {Science of 
Nutrition.) 

TABLE XXIVb 



Oatmeal, 1 cooked 
Rice, cooked 
Macaroni . 



Water 



Protein 



84-5 
72-5 

78-4 



2-3 
2-3 
2-3 



Fat 



0-5 
01 
1-4 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



11-3 

23-8 
15-6 



Cellu- 
lose 



Calories 



0-5 285 
0-2 i 505 
10 ^ 405 



It will be observed that cooked rice, weight for weight, 

1 In these analyses the material evidently absorbs as much 
water as it will and the rest is drained away. In cooking porridge 
4 oz. oatmeal to a pint of water seems a usual allowance ; and 
the resulting liquid is said to be 18-20 per cent, water {Bulletin 
249) ; whereas the water in the above analysis is only 15*5 
per cent. The same bulletin allows only J oz. oatmeal to a 
pint to make gruel, the resulting mixture being 98 per cent, 
water. But Rowntree makes gruel with 2 oz. oatmeal to 1 pint 
water ; and this is, or was formerly, the workhouse recipe for 
gruel. Workhouse porridge is 3 oz. to the pint. Stirabout 
is 3 oz. Indian meal, 5 oz. oatmeal in 2^ pints of water boiled 
down to 1| pints (See Burney Yeo ; Food in Health and 
Disease, 1896). 



80 



FOOD VALUES 



has a much greater fuel value than cooked oatmeal, and 
contains less water. 



VEGETABLES 

TABLE XXV 

Roots and Tubers (from Farmers' Bulletin No. 295). 

The nitrogenous material here is not always protein ; 
some vegetables, notably the artichoke, contain com- 
pounds of nitrogen which are not true proteins, and do 
not take the same place in food value. The amount of 
waste is stated in round numbers as an average. It 
must be noted that the analyses are for the edible por- 
tion after the waste has been removed. 



' 




Edible Portion 


Vegetable 


Refuse 


Water 


Nitro- 
genous 
Matter 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Fibre 


Ash 


Calories 
per lb. 
[doubt- 
ful.] 


Artichoke, Jeru- 


















salem 1 


20-0 


78-7 


2-5 


0-2 


17-5 


0-8 


M 


380 


Beet 2 . . . 


7-0 


87-5 


1-6 


0-1 


8-8 


0-9 


11 


500 


Celeriac . 


20 


841 


1-5 


0-4 


11-8 


1-4 


0-8 


265 


Carrots, Fresh ^ 


20 


88-2 


11 


0-4 


8-2 


11 


10 


190 


„ desiccated 


— 


3-5 


7-7 


0-6 


80-3 


— 


4-9 


1660 


Parsnips * . . 


20 


83-0 


1-6 


0-5 


11 


2-5 


1-4 


255 


Potatoes"' . . 


20 


78-3 


2-2 


0-1 


18-4 


— 


10 


385 


Radishes . . 


— 


91-8 


1-3 


01 


51 


0-7 


01 


125 


Salsify . . . 


25 


85-4 


4-3 


0-3 


171 


2-3 


10 


410 


Turnips — 


















White" . . 


20 


89-6 


1-3 


0-2 


6-8 


1-3 


11 


160 


YeUow . . 


20 


88-9 


1-3 


0-2 


7-3 


1-2 


1-3 


170 


Kohlrabi 


20 


911 


20 


01 


4'2 


1-3 


1-3 


120 


Onions . . . 


10 


87-6 


16 


0-3 


91 


0-8 


0-6 


210 


Garlic . . . 


— 


64-7 


6-8 


01 


27-9 


0-8 


1-5 650 

1 



TABLES 81 



Notes to Table XXV. 

(1) The percentage of water in a boiled Jerusalem artichoke 
was estimated by Miss K. Williams as 91-6. 

(2) The analysis of cooked beetroot is as follows. Water 
88-6, Nitrogenous material 2-3, Fat 0-1, Carbohydrates 7-4 
Ash 1-6, Calories 185. 

(3) When carrots are boiled in water the loss of mineral and 
nitrogenous matter, also of sugar, is very large ; the amount 
depending on the size of the pieces into which they are cut. 

Nitrogenous matter lost Sugar lost 

. per cent. per cent. 

Small pieces , . . . .40 96 

Medium Pieces ..... 27 26 

Large pieces . . . . .20 15 

{Bulletin 45, U.S.A. Department of Agriculture.) 

Miss Williams gives 93-4 as the percentage of water in cooked 
carrot. 

(4) Miss Williams' estimate of percentage of water in boiled 
parsnip is 97*2. 

(5) Similar experiments of hers on potatoes gave the interest- 
ing result that boiled in their skins they lost a little water — per- 
centage decreased from 75 to 73-8. Boiled in the ordinary 
way it increased from 75 to 76-3. In the table below it will 
be seen that other specimens lost a little water in ordinary 
cooking. Very elaborate experiments have been made by the 
U.S.A. Agriculture department on the boiling of potatoes {Bulletin 
No. 43). The general conclusions were — 

Potatoes boiled without peeling, 1 per cent, of nitrogenous 
matter, no starch and about 3 per cent mineral matter lost. 

Potatoes peeled, put directly into hot water and rapidly boiled, 
16 per cent, of nitrogenous matter and 19 per cent, mineral 
matter lost, (Nitrogenous matter reduced from 1*8 to 1-5.) 
Potatoes peeled and soaked in cold water, 46-48 per cent, nitrp- 
genous matter (including 25 per cent, protein), and 38 per cent, 
mineral matter lost (Nitrogenous matter reduced to 0*9). 

From the same bulletin we learn that the . actual skin of the 
potato, and the layer immediately under the skin, contain a 
larger proportion of protein aiid of mineral constituents than ' 
the rest of the tuber, and a smaller proportion of starch. It is / 
experienced by every one that to preserve the mineral consti- / 
tuents of the potato, by cooking in the skin, greatly improves 
its flavour. The amount of protein in this food is inconsiderable 

G 



82 



FOOD VALUES 



in any case, so that there need not be very great stress on the 
loss. It has been calculated that the quantity lost by cooking 
a bushel of potatoes in the ordinary way is about the same as 
the protein in 1 lb. of beefsteak. 

Analyses of potatoes cooked in various ways are given in 
another Farmers' Bulletin, No. 295. See Table XXVI. 

(6) Percentage of water in cooked turnip 97*2. 

TABLE XXVI 
Potatoes. 



; Water i Protein 
per cent, [per cent. 



Fat u^Satesi ^i^'"^^ Ash Calories 
per cent. "^^^^^ per cent, per cent.^ per lb. 



Potatoes (as I 

purchased) ! 62-6 
Edible part 
Boiled 



Mashed, with 

' "^^^er, etc. 

) Chips 



78-3 
75-5 



iviasnea, wirn 

butter, etc. 

Potato Chips 



751 
2-2 



1-8 
2-2 
2-5 

2-6 

6-8 



01 
•1 
•1 

3-0 
39-8 



13-8 
180 
20-0' 



0-9 
•4 
•6 



17-8 
46-7 



0-8 
lO 
10 

1-5 
4-5 



300 
375 
415 

505 
2675 



TABLES 



83 



TABLE XXVII 

Green Vegetables. 
This table is for English vegetables, and is taken 
chiefly from Hutchison and. also from Tibbies. The 
amount'of refuse is not given ; 10 to 15 per cent, may be 
allowed for most in the list. As in the last table, the 
nitrogenous matter is not all protein, notably so in the 
case of asparagus. 





Water 


Nitro- 


Fat 1 


Carbo- 


Cellu- 


Ash 


Calories 


Vegetable 


per 
cent. 


genous 
Matter 
per cent. 


per 1 
cent. 


lydratesi 
per cent. 


lose* 
per 
cent. 


per 
cent. 


per lb. 
[doubt- 
ful.] 


Asparagus, raw . 


91-7 


C2-2] 


0-2 


2-9 • 


21 


0-2 




Cabbage — 
















Raw . 


89-6 


1-8 


0-4 


5-8 


11 


1-3 


165 


Cooked 1 


97-4 


0-5 


0-02 


0-7 


0-7 


0-2 


23 


Savoy, raw . 


87 


3-3 


0-7- 


6 


11 


1-6 


20O 


Red, raw 


90 


1-8 


0-2 


5-8 


1-2 


0-7 


150 


Brussels Sprouts 


93-7 


1-5 


01 


3-4 


5 


1-3 


95 


Greens, Curly 
















Kale. 


82-9 


3-8 


0-9 


8-9 


1-5 


3-5 


275 


„ Turnip 
















Tops 


88 


2-5 


— 


3-8 


3-9 


1-8 


115 


Cauliflower . . 


90-7 


2-2 


6-4 


4-7 


1-2 


0-8 


145 


„ Cooked 


96-4 














Spinach. . . 


90-6 


2-5 


0-5 


3-8 


0-9 


1-7 


120 


„ Cooked 


98 














Sea-kale . . 


93-3 


1-4 


— 


i 3-8 


1 0-9 


0-6 


97 


„ Cooked 


98 


0-4 


1 


0-3 


11 


0-2 


13 


Leeks . . . 


91-8 


1-2 


0-5 


5-8 


— 


0-7 


150 


Vegetable Mar- 






i - 










row 


01-8 


0-06 


; 0-2 


2-6 


1-3 


0-5 


48 


„ Cooked 


99-2 


0-09 


1 0-04 

1 


0-2 


0-4 


005 


6 



1 The Bulletin No 45 already quoted makes the following 
statement :— " In 100 lb. of uncooked cabbage there are but 
7^ lb. of dry matter, and of this dry matter from 2| to 3 lb. 
are lost in the process of cooking. This loss seems to be unavr id- 
able unless the cabbage is cooked in such a manner that the 
water in which it is boiled is also used." 

* See overleaf. 



84 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE XXVIII 

Salads (from Hutchison). 





Water 


Nitro- 
genous 
Matter 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Cellu- 
lose 1 


Ash 


Calories 


Celery . 


934 


14 


0-1 


0-9 


0-9 


0-9 


85 


„ Cooked . 


97-0 


0-3 


0-06 


0-5 


10 


0-5 


17 


Cucumber . 


95-9 


0-8 


01 


21 


0-5 


04 


70 


„ Cooked 


974 


0-5 


0-02 


0-7 


0-7 


0-2 


22 


Endive . . 


94 


10 


— 


3 


0-6 


0-8 


40 


Lettuce . . . 


941 


14 


04 


2-6 


0-5 


10 


105 


„ Cooked 


97-2 


0-5 


0-2 


0-5 


0-9 


0-4 


27 


Tomatoes . 


91-9 


1-3 


0-2 


50 


M 


0-7 


105 


„ Cooked 


941 


10 


0-2 


01 


1-5 


0-7 


29 


Watercress . 


931 


0-7 


.0-5 


3-7 


0-7 


1-3 


88 



To this may he subjoined- 



Mushrooms . 



91 



3-8 



0-2 



3-5 0-8 0-5 144 



1 The increase in the percentage of cellulose after cooking, 
noticed in these Tables, is caused by the decrease of per- 
centage of the soluble constituents — proteins, carbohydrates 
and mineral matters, which all pass into the water to a 
greater or less extent when the vegetables are boiled. The 
cellulose is insoluble, so does not decrease in quantity. The 
study of the figures for cooked vegetables certainly points the 
moral that they ought to be " conservatively " cooked — in 
other words cooked so as to conserve all their food material, not 
dissolve it into water which is afterwards thrown away. 



TABLED 



as 



TABLE XXIX 
Pulses. 

The figures given for the most important of the pulses 
— lentils, haricot beans and dry peas — show soine 
amount of variation. One investigator (Ballard) gives 
the range between which his estimates lay, so his re- 
sults will be given first. No distinction seems to be 
made between Egyptian (the small red) and German 
(the large greenish-brown) lentils. 

Ballard's results. 



Water 



Haricot 

Beans, i 10-20-4 

Lentils . '11-7-13-5 

Peas . . 10-6-14-2 



Protein 



13-8-26-1 
20-3-24-2 
18-9-23-5 



Fat 



1-2 

•6-1-5 

1-2-1-4 



Carbo- CelJu- 
hydrates lose 



358 



9-61 2-5-4 
56-1-62-4 3-3 
56-2-61-12-9-5-5 



Ash 



62 



4-4-2 
9-5-5 
2-3-3-5 



62 



In the following list averages are given. They are 
chiefly from Hutchison. 



so 



FOOD VALUES 



Pulse 


Water 
per 
cent. 


Protein 
per cent. 


Fat 
per 
cent. 


Carbo- 
liydrates 
per cent. 


Cellu- 1 

lose 

percent 


Min. 

Matter 

per 

cent. 


Calories 
per lb. 


Green Peas, 




* 






• 


- 




sheUed . 


78-1 


4-0 


0-5 


16 


0-5 


0-9 


392 


Dried Peas ^ . 


130 


210 


1-8 


55-4 


60 


2-6 


1494 


Pea Flour . . 


10-2 


28-0 


2-0 


56-9 


04 


2-5 


1660 


Dry Broad Beans 


84 


264 


2-0 


58-6 


10 


36 


1662 


Butter Beans 
















(ground) . 


10-5 


20-6 


20 


62-6 


— 


4-3 


1628 


" Haricots 
















Verts "2 . 1 89-5 


1-5 


0-4 


7-3 


0-6 


0-7 


180 


String Beans 
















Amer. analy- 
















sis . . . 


89-2 


2-3 


0-3 


74 


2-8 


0-8 


192 


Haricots ^ (dry 
















white) . 


121 


22-7 


21 


57-7 


4-2 


34 


1580 


Scarlet Runners . 


911 


1-7 


0-3 


3-7 


2-9 


0-3 


113 


Lentils ? . . 


IM. 


23-8 


1-7 


57-7 


2-8 


1 3-2 


1684 

1 



TABLE XXX 
Fruit. 
In which, for convenience, Rhubarb (stalks) is in- 
cluded. The great majority of these analyses are from 
Hutchison ; the remainder from Farmers' Bulletin No. 
293. Wherever possible the English analyses have been 
preferred, as more suitable for EngUsh fruit ; but the 
column headed Refuse is American, and therefore not as 
a rule from the same analysis. The acidity of certain 

1 Cooked dried peas contain about 74 per cent, water. Miss 
Williams gives 73*7, almost the same, for cooked haricot beans. 
No figure has been found for lentils ; but 74 per cent, may be 
assumed. 

2 This seems to be the French Beans served whole like scarlet 
runners, not the fresh green kidney beans (served without their 
pods), often known as " haricots verts." The American analysis 
of " string bean " is put next for comparison. Compare also 
scarlet runners below. 

' Mean of Hutchison's and Tibbies' figures. 



TABLES 



87 



fruits was the subject of a special German investigation, 
quoted by Hutchison. Fruits with more than 80 per 
cent, of water are sometimes classified as flavour fruits ; 
those with less as food fruits. Bananas and grapes come 
under the latter heading. 

The ohve is included, with its unusual content of fal^. 
The appearance of fat in the analyses of most fruits 
seems to be due generally to the wax in the skin (the 
bloom) or to the nature of the colouring matter. 



A pples . 

Apricots . 

Bananas . 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Cranberries 

Currants (three 
kinds) 

I'igs (Fresh) 

Gooseberries 

Grapes. . 

Greengages 

Lemons 

temon Juice 

Medlar. . 

Melon . 

Water .Melon 

Mulberries . 

Nectarines 

Olives . 

Oranges . 

Orange Juice 

Peaches 

Pears . 

Pineapples 

Plums . 

Pomegranates 

Raspberries . 

Rhubarb Stalks 

Strawberries 

Whortleberries or 
blaeberries or 
bilberries . 

Dmed Fruits. 
Apples . 
Currants 
Dates . 
Figs . 
Prunes . 
Raisins 



[25-0] 

[6-0] 

[:35-OJ 

[5-0] 



[25-0] 
[30-0] 



[6-6] 
[17-9] 
[27-0] 

[18-0] 

[10-0] 

[40-0] 

[5-0] 

.m 

[40-0] 



82-5 

85 

74 

88-9 

84 

86-5 

85-2 

79-1 

86 

79 

80-8 

89-3 

90-0 

74-6 

89-8 

92-9 

84-7 

82-9 

67 

86-7 

85 

88-8 

83-9 

89-3 

78-4 

76-8 

84-4 

94-4 



Pro- 
tein 



[5-0] 89-1 



76-3 



27-9 

20-8 

20 

26-4 

14 



0-4 
1-1 
1-5 
0-9 

•8 
•5 

•4 

1-5 
0-4 
1-0 
0-4 
1-0 

0-5 

•7 
•3 



2-5 
0-9 

0-5 
•4 
•4 
1-0 
1-5 
1-0 
0-6 
1-0 



0-7 



1-4 
1-2 
4-4 
5-5 
2-4 
2-5 



tracted 
- by 
ether 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



0-5 



0-7 
2-1 



12-5 
12-4 
22-9 

2-3 
10-0 

3-9 



— 7-9 

18 



1-0 



0-3 
•3 
•1 



17-1 
0-6 



0-2 



0-7 
.•5 



3-0 



15-5 

13-4 

8-3 

2-0 

16-5 

7-6 

6-5 

11-4 

15-9 

5-5 

8-7 

10-8 

5-8 

11-5 

9-7 

14-8 

16-8 

5-2 

2-5 

6-3 



3-0 I 49-1 
3-0 64 
2-1 65-7 



0-9 

•8 

4-7 



62-8 
66-21 
74-7 



CeUu- 
loee 



2-7 

0-2 
5-2 
3-8 
6-2 

4-6 
8 

2-7 
2-5 
4-3 



7-5 
1-0 

0-9 

3-3 
1-5 

3-4 
3-1 

4-3 
2-7 
7-4 
1-1 
2-2 



12-2 

4-9 
1-7 
5-5 
7-3 



0-4 
•5 
•9 
•6 



1-8 
2-2 
1-5 
2-3 
1-5 
4-1 



1-0 
1-0 



1-0-1-5 
2-2-5 



1-4 



1-5 
0-5 



7-0 



1-2-5 

1-9 

1-0 

-1 



1-1-2 



1-6 



1-2 
2-7 



260 
250 
480 
145 
300 
120 

155 
380 
170 
350 
290 
210 
35 
330 
165 



305 

1470 
205 
200 
110 
220 
190 
290 
405 
116 



245 

1065 

1335 

1390 ■ 

1305 

1365 

1630 



88 



FOOD VALUES 



1 Refuse 1 Water 


Protein 


V&t 


Carbo- 


Fibre 


Ash 


Calo- 










hydrateg 






ries 


Tinned Fkuits 


















(American). 


















Apricots .... 
Cherries .... 


— 


81-4 


0-9 


— 


17-3 


— 


0-4 


337 


— 


77-2 


1-1 


0-1 


21-1 


— 


•5 


414 


Peaches .... 


— 


88-1 


0-7 


•1 


10-8 


— 


•3 


213 


Pears 


— 


81-1 


•3 


•3 


18-0 


— 


•3 


341 


Pineapples . . . 


— 


61-8 


•4 


•7 


36-4 


— 


•7 


712 


Candied Fruit 


















(American). 


















Angelica .... 


— - 


10-4 


0-1 


0-1 


87-3 


1-5 


0-6 


1025 


Cherries .... 


_ 


12-1 


•5 


•2 


86-1 


0-6 


•6 


1617 


Ginger .... 


— 


12-3 


•3 


•2 


86-1 


•7 


•4 


1610 



JAM, MARMALADE, HONEY 

It was mentioned in Chapter I that fruit always con- 
tains some sugar of a different kind from cane or beet 
sugar; one name for it is fructose, as it comes from fruit. 
When cane sugar is boiled with dilute acid some of it is 
converted into fructose and kindred sugars ; the longer 
it boils the more complete is the change. Therefore, 
jam always contains some amount of the newly formed 
sugars, home-made jam usually more than commercial 
jam, as it has been boiled longer. As practically all the 
nutriment in jam is in the sugar content, analyses are 
usually estimates of the amounts of the different sugars. 
Further, a sugar aUied to fructose, known as glucose, is 
often added to commercial jam instead of cane sugar, 
because it can be made artificially at small expense. 
Glucose has quite as satisfactory fuel value as fructose, 
and there is not much objection to it if it does not bring 
undesirable impurities. In minor details, such as con- 
sistency and behaviour on further cooking, it does not 
seem to be quite the same thing in use. Analysts dis- 
tinguish amongst these sugars by their action on polar- 



TABLES 



89 



ized light, and are accustomed to describe the fructose 
and kindred sugars obtained in the boiling of the cane 
sugar as " Invert " sugar, borrowing this term from the 
technical nomenclature concerned with polarization. 
Very few analyses are available which give the protein 
content, but it is always well under 1 per cent. ; the total 
sugar is from 50 to 60 per cent. Honey consists of 
about 20 per cent, water, 74 per cent, of sugars (chiefly 
of the nature of fructose) and some quantity of other 
carbohydrates such as dextrin. 

An analysis of Orange Marmalade (American) on 
ordinary lines is : — s. 



Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrates. 


Ash. 


Calories 


14-5 


0-6 


01 


84-5 


0-3 


1580 



A few samples of Wiley's ^ analyses of jams on the 
other method are subjoined. Jams vary in their acidity, 
as is seen in these ; they also vary in the amount of 
cellulose as fibre contained, blackberry and bilberry jam 
having a comparatively large quantity ; also in the 
amount of water — where strawberry generally has the 
most. 

• TABLE XXXI 



Jam: (American. 
Apple-. 
Blackberry . 
Pineapple . 
Plum .... 



Water 
per cent. 



36-8 
44-6 
26-1 
49-6 



Acidity 
per cent. 



0-28 
•85 
•31 

101 



Invert 

Sugar 

per cent. 



25 5 
18^8 
141 
28^3 



Cane 

Sugar 

per cent. 



291 
29 
464 
9^7 



Total 

Sugar 

per cent. 



54^6 

47^8 
60^5 
38^0 



^ Food and its Adulterations. 



90 



FOOD VALUES 



Also some -samples given in the Analyst, quoted by 
Tibbies. 



- 


Water 


Invert 
Sugar 


Cane 
Sugar 


other 
SoUds 


Skins& 
Seeds 


Ash 


Average of Home- 
Made Jam 


30-5 


631 


6-7 


4.8 


4-3 


•6 


Average of Com- 




. 










mercial Jam . 


29-5 


36-6 


27-8 


31 


3-5 


•4 



Among " other solids " will come Pectin, the sub- 
stance (allied to a carbohydrate) which causes jams 
to set as a jeljjr. In sonie commercial jams of the 
inferior kind gelatin, or some form of starch like corn- 
flour or tapioca, is added to make the jam solid and 
jelly-Uke, if there is deficiency of pectin. But turnips, 
for instance, contain a fair amount of pectin, although 
not as much per cent, as do fruits such as the apple, 
lemon or gooseberry. 

NUTS 

TABLE XXXIIa. 

From Farmers' Bulletin No. 332. 





Ediblw Portion. 


Nut 


Refuse 


Water 


Proteui 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Fibre 


Ash 


Calo- 
ries 


Almond 


47 


4-9 j 21-4 


54-4 


13-8 30 


2-5 


2895 


Brazil Nut. . 


49-4 


4-7 1 17-4 


65 


5-7 l3-9 


3-3 


3120 


Chestnut, Fresh 


16-7 


43-4 ! 6-4 


60 


41-3 1-5 


1-4 


1140 


Coco-nut . . 


34-7 


13 1 6-6 


56-2 


13-7 8-9 


16 


2805 


„desiccated 


— 


3-5 : 6-3 


57-4 


31-5 


1-3 


3125 


„ Milk . 


— 


92-7 0-4 


1-5 


4-6 


0-8 


155 


Filbert (dry) . 


521 


5-4 


16-5 


64 


11-7 


— 


— 


Pea Nut . . 


27-0 


7-4 


29-8 


43-5 


14-7 


24 


2-2 


2610 


Pine Nuts, 


















sheUed . 


— 


6-2 


33-9 


48-2 


6-5 


1-4 


3^8 


2710 


Wahiut(dry) . 


58-8 


34 


18-2 


60-7| 


13-7 , 2-3 

1 


1-7 


3075 



TABLES 
TABLE XXXIIb. 



91 



a set of English analyses of nuts from Hutchison, is 
subjoined to show the extent of variation in the same 
species of nut. These analyses are of shelled nuts. 





Water 


Protein 


Pat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Cellu- 
lose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Chestnuts, Fresh . 


38-5 


6-6 


8 


1 
45-2 


1-7 


Wahiiits, Fresh . 


44-5 


12 


31-6 


9-4 


0-8 


1-7 


Dried . 


4-6 


15-6 


62-6 


7-4 


7-8 


2 


Filberts and Hazels - 














Fresh . . . 


48 


8 


28-5 


11-5 


* 2-5 


1-5 


Dried . . . 


3-7 


14-9 


66-4 


9-7 


3-2 


1-8 


Almonds 


6 


24 


54 


10 3 


3 


Brazil Nuts, 


5-0 


170 


67-2 


70 


4 


Pea Nuts ." . . 


9-3 


27-9 


42-0 


18-7 


2 1 


Coco-nut, fleshy 


" 










part . 


46-6 


5-2 


35-9 


8-4 i 2-9 


1 


„ milk 


90-3 


0-5 . 


— 


9 


. — 



BEVERAGES 

The following table is ^ven in the Farmers' Bulletin 
No. 249 for comparison of the " coffee " made from 
roasted cereal grains with ordinary coffee, tea and 
cocoa ; the latter are put first here in the Hst. 



92 



FOOD VALUES 



TABLE XXXIII 



Beverage 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Calories 
per lb. 


Tea, 5 oz. to pint . 


99-5 


0-2 




0-6 


15 


Coffee, 1 oz. to pint . 


98-9 


0-2 


— 


0-7 


16 


Cocoa, -5 oz. to pint 


971 


0-6 


0-9 


M 


' 65 


Cocoa -5 oz. to one 












pint milk 


84-5 


3-8 


4-7 


6-0 


365 


Skim Milk . . . 


90-5 


3-4 


0-3 


51 


170 


" Cereal " Coffee . 


98-2 


0-2 


— 


1-4 


30 


Parched Corn Coffee 


99-5 


0-2 




0-5 


13 


Oatmeal Water, 1 oz. 












to pint . 


99-7 


0-3 


— 


0-3 


11 



It may be observed that Rowntree (see Appendix T 
to Poverty) makes two of the three typical beverages so 
that they are distinctly weaker than the American 
specimens. 



Tea 

Coffee 

Cocoa 



•2 oz. 
•4. , 
•5 , 



to pint 



of which '08 is chicory 
the same as above 



DIGESTIBILITY OF PROTEINS, FATS 
AND CARBOHYDRATES 

Chalmers Watson gives the following generaUzed 
result. 

In a mixed diet 



Of Protein 


. 91*3 per cent, is digested 


„ Fat . 


. 95-9 „ 


„ Carbohydrates . 


. 97-7 „ 



On an exclusively vegetarian diet the percentage of 
protein is somewhat less. 



TABLES 93 

Dividing the mixed diet into three headings, he gives / / 



Protein . 

Fat 

Carbohydrates 



TABLE XXIV 



Animal 
Foods. 



97 
100 1 



Cereals aud 
Sugars. 

- 85 
90 
98 



Vegetables 
and Fruits. 

80 

90 

95 



TABLE XXXV 

Coefficient of Digestibility of the different classes of 
Cereals and of a few other foods 

From Fanners^ Bulletin No. 249. 



' 


Percentage Digested 


Percentage 




Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


available 
Calories 


Oat products 


77-9 


90-0 
(com- 


97 


87-8 


- 




puted) 






Wheat Products — 










Undecorticated 


72-7 


90-0 


91 


83-3 


Decorticated . 


80-9 


»» 


95-6 


89-3 


Rolled, partly cooked 


83-1 




931 


861 


Malted, ready to eat. 


75-4 


^, 


91-4 


84-7 


Rye products. 


) 








Barley products . . 


77-8 


>» 


93-8 


86-4 


Buckwheat products 


j 








Rice products . . . 


88 


j» 


98 


92 


Graham Bread . 


76 


» 


91 


83 


" Entire Wheat " Bread 


82 




94 


87 


White Bread .... 


88 


>5 


98 


92 


Macaroni 


8G-8 


„ 


97-4 


921 


Legumes 


78 


»J 


97 


80 


Potatoes 


73 


„ 


99 


91 


Beefsteak . . . . <. 


98 


>» 


98 


98 


^ Milk sugar only : e 


xcept a 1 


ittle glyc 


igen in li^ 


/er. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE USE OF THE TABLES 

Analyses of Made Dishes,* of Daily Diets, and of 
Weekly Consumptions. 

Owing to the peculiar conditions of the time, tables or 
calculations involving the prices of food can be of very 
little use. All reference to price has therefore been 
omitted. Current prices can hardly be considered 
stable ; and inferences based on pre-war prices are of 
little use to us, as the increase of price is not evenly 
distributed among the common articles of food. 

In comparing two articles of food and determining 
their relative value, there is not, unfortunately, one 
criterion, but two criteria — two separate ways of judg- 
ing them. One is by the protein content, the other 
by the fuel value. In each case one is to have in mind 
either the amount of protein, or the number of Calories 
needed by each person daily. As a secondary con- 
sideration a food may be judged according to its con- 
tribution of fat and carbohydrate ; but we have seen 
that one of these may be substituted for the other, as 
long as we take into account their different calorific value. 

Another difficulty in comparing foods is that dry 
articles, which absorb a good deal of water when cooked, 
cannot in all circumstances be compared fairly with 
other articles which take up but little, or even lose, 
water in cooking. The housewife in her weekly pur- 
chases can correctly compare the value of 1 lb. of lentils 
with 1 lb. of butcher's meat, as she will arrange to have 
both consumed fully by the family. She may judge 

94 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 95 

in the same way that J lb. of lentils will give a more 
valuable meal for a family of six than J lb. butchers' 
meat. But what she cannot do is to offer a single 
hungry person, instead of the | lb. meat which he would 
readily eat, J lb. of lentils cooked so that they had 
swollen to 1 J or 2 lbs. of rather monotonous food. 
Nor would he take J lb. of oatmeal, which would mean at 
least a quart of thick porridge. • 

Examples in working out the value of cooked food 
are given in the next chapter. 

With regard to all calculations, the reader is advised 
to resolve to work out a fairly large number of her 
individual problems, if she begins to use the tables at all, 
for, naturally, it is only practice that makes them easy 
or rapid ; the first three or four will take some little 
time, both in looking up the data and doing the calcula- 
tion. But after a few have been done, it will be found 
that such ingredients as flour, eggs, sugar, milk, occur so 
often that the figures for them are easily memorized, and 
altogether the whole operation becomes much more rapid. 

Approximate results may always be obtained by cut- 
ting off the decimal place given in these tables, given 
because it is customary. Thus 114, the percentage of 
protein in flour, may be written as 11 ; 74-8 the percent- 
age of carbohydrate as 75. (This is on the principle that 
up to -5 the flgure is simply omitted ; above -5, 1 is 
added to the unit in front when the decimal is omitted.) 
Considering the variation in the composition of flour, 
and indeed in the composition of most articles of food, 
to deal thus with our figures seems quite justifiable ; 
and it shortens the w^ork greatly to iiave two figures in 
each item instead of three. The majority of the examples 
given arc, however, worked out from the Tables as given ; 



96 FOOD VALUES 

• 

but one or two abbreviated ones are given for illustra- 
tion and comparison. 

The percentage numbers give the proportion of 
protein, etc. , in the food ; as they stand they are not 
weights at all. The number 11-4 above states that 

11-4 114 

or of the sample of flour was protein. There- 

100 1000 ^ ^ 

fore of 1 oz. flour -114 oz. was protein ; of 1 lb. flour 
•114 lb. was protein. At the beginning of the calcula- 
tion we must decide whether we are going to work in 
decimals of a lb. or decimals of an oz. The former will 
be found better for weekly dietaries, the latter for made 
dishes. The weekly dietaries will finally have to be 
converted into ounces when they are reduced to the daily 
amount per head. It must be remembered that the 
Calories or fuel values are always given for pounds, and 
those for ounces must be got by division. The reader 
will find it exceedingly useful to memorize the siaieen 
times table, if she does not know it already. The 
constant use of it will soon make it easy to remember. 

In tabulating the value of a given weight of any food, 
look up the percentages in the Tables, and, copy them 
down with the decimal point moved two places to the 
left. This will convert them from percentages into 
decimals of an ounce or pound, whichever you require, 
(as in the last paragraph). The figures are then ready to 
be multiplied by the number of ounces or pounds of the 
food. 

Thus — for the food value of 6 lb. of flour — to be given 
in lbs. 

% -^ 100 
p. F. C. Protein. Fat. Carbohydrate. 

6 lb. flonr . . 114 ^-Ol -748 -684 -010 4-488 lb. 

Note carefully at {a) the appearance of a zero directly 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



97 



alter the decimal point when we have to express only 
1 per cent, of fat, as a decimal of a pound and the 
decimal point has to be moved two places to the left. In 
the right hand column -010 is written instead of -01. 
The final is of course unnecessary, but it will be found 
helpful to put it in, so as to have three decimal figures in 
each item, — to keep them all in the proper place for 
addition. 

I. TYPICAL KECIPES 
A. Soups. 
1. Tomato Soup for six persons. (Mrs. Beeton.) 





% -^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


r. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Tomatoes, 2 lb. (32 oz.) 
Butter, 1 oz. . . 
Sago, 1 tablespoonful 

(loz.) .... 
1 Onion, 1 Carrot (12 

oz.) 

Stock, 1 quart weak, 

(40 oz.) . . . 
or Water (1 quart). 

Ham (2 oz.) 


•009 

•013 
•012 


•004 

•003 
•015 


•039 
•080 


•288 
•010 

•002 

•166 

•480 

•936 


•096 
•830 

•002 

•036 

•600 

1564 


1248 

•860 
•960 


210 
220 

100 

138 

210 


6] 


3068 


878 


Per portion . 
[Ham, (2oz.) . . . | -145; -332 . 


•156 
•290 


•261 
•664 


•511 


146 

209] 


Subtracting the quantities for stock" 
and adding those for ham we get 6^ 


•746 


1-628 


3^068 


877 


Per] 


portic 


)n . 




•124 


•271 


•511 


146 



The substitution of ham does not alter the fuel value, 
which is remarkable, but gives more fat and less protein. 



98 FOOD VALUES 

2. Tomato Soup. (Another recipe.) 





% -f- 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Tomatoes, (2 lb.) . . 
Stock, 1 J pints (30 oz.) 
Butter, (2 oz.) . . . 
Flour, 1 oz. ... 
Milk, i pint (10 oz.) . 


•01 




•83 


— 


•288 
•360 
•020 
•114 
•330 


•096 
•450 
1-660 
•010 
•400 


1-248 

•748 
•500 


210 
159 
440 
103 
201 




6 ; 

Per portion . 


1112 2-616 


2496 


1113 




•185 


•436 


•416 


185 



3. Potato Soup for six persons. (Mrs. Beeton.) 



Stock, 40 oz. (as above) 
Milk 10 oz. (as above) 
Potatoes, 1 lb. . . 
Buttfci", 1 oz. . 
Sago, 1 tablespoonful 

(1 oz.) .... 
1 Onion, 1 stick Celery 

(8 oz.) .... 



100 



•018 



-001 



147 



Ounces of 



Pro- 
tein 



Fat 



-480 -600 
•330 -400 
•288! -016 
-010, -830 

•0021 -002 

I 

•104,. 024 



6 )1-214 1872 4352 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



•500 
2-352 



•860 
•640 



Per portion . | -202 1 ^312 ^725 



Ca- 
lories 



210 
201 
310 
220 

101 

92 



1134 



189 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



99 



B. Meat Dishes. 
1 . Stewed Steak for four persons. (Mrs. Beeton.) 





% ^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
iiydrates 


lories 


Steak (rump), 16 oz. . 
Butter (1 oz.) . . . 
Flour, etc., 1 oz. . . 
Carrots, Turnips, etc. 
8 oz 


•152 
•013 


•186 



•003 


•08 


2432 
•010 
•114 

•104 


2^976 
•830 
•010 

•024 


•748 
•640 


1065 

220 
103 

92 


4 ; 


2660 


3840 


b388 


1480 


Per portion . 


•665 


•960 


•347 


370 



2. Toad in the Hole for four persons. (Mrs. Beeton.) 





% -^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




^^ 


P. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Steak, 16 oz. . . . 
Flour, 4 oz. 
Milk, etc., 10 oz. . . 
Egg, 1 (2 oz.) . . . 


•114 
•1T9 


•010 
•093 


•748 


2-432 
•456 
•330 
•238 


2-976 
•040 
•400 
•186 


2^992 
•500 


1065 

412 

201 

76 


4) 


3-466 


3^602 


3492 


1764 




Per] 


aortic 


n . 


-86 


•9 


•873 


438 



100 



FOOD VALUES 



3. Hot Pot for eight persons. (Mrs. Beeton.) 





% 


-f- 100 


Ounces'of 


Ca- 




P. 

•192 

•018 
•013 


•092 
•010 
•030 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Beef, Lean, 2 lb. (32 
oz.) 

Potatoes, 3 lb. (48 oz.) 
Onions ^ lb. (8 oz.) . 


•147 

•800 


6-144 
•864 
•104 


2-944 
-480 
•240 


7056 
•640 


1490 

930 

92 


8 ; 


17^112 


3664 


7-696 


2512 










•889 


•458 


•962 


314 



The same with abbreviated figures, to two decimals 
instead of three. 





% -^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Beef, 2 lb 

Potatoes, 3 lb. . . 
Onions, ^ lb. . . . 


•19 
•02 
•01 


•09 
•01 
•03 


•15 

•80 


6^08 
•96 
•08 


2-88 
•48 
•24 


7^2 
•64 


— 


8 ; 


712 


3-60 


7^84 


2512 










-89 


•45 


•98 


314 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



101 



C. Puddings. 
1 . Suet Pudding for six persons. Plain. (Mrs. Beeton.) 





% ^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Flour, 8 oz. . . . 
Suet, 4 oz 


•114 

•047 


•01 

•818 


•748 


\ 
•912 ^08 
•108 3^272 


5-984 


825 

885 




6 )1020 3^352 

1 


5-984 


1710 




Per portion . 


•170 -559 


•997 


285 



2. Sponge Pudding for six persons (?) (Mrs. Beeton.) 





% ^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate.' 


lories 


Flour, 12 oz. . . . 
Suet, 4 oz. ... 
Golden S5rrup, 8 oz. . 
Milk,ipint(5oz.) . . 


•114 

•024 
•033 


•01 
•04 


•748 

•693 
.05 


1368 
•108 
•192 
•165 


.12 
3272 

•200 


8^976 

5544 
•250 


1237 

886 
665 
100 


6] 


1833 


3-592 


14770 


2887 




Per I 


jortic 


>n . 


•305 


•599 


2461 


481 



102 FOOD VALUES 

3. Windsor Pudding for five persons. (Mrs. Beeton.) 





% - 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. C. 


Pro-, 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Apples, 2 lb. . . . 
Castor Sugar, 1 oz. . 
Rice, 1 oz. ... 
Mirk (to boil rice), 4 

oz 

Egg-whites, 4 . . . 

= •58 of 8 oz., see 
p. 66 

=4-64 say 4^ oz. 


•004 

_ 

•033 
•123 


•005 

•04 
•002 


•125 

•05 
•006 


•128 -160 

•074 •OOS 

•132 160 
•553 •OOO 


4^000 

rooo 

•792 

•200 
•027 


520 
112 
101 

80 
65 


5) 


•887 


•332 


6019 


878 










•177 


•066 


1204 


176 



4. Sago Pudding for two persons (?) 





Ounces of 






Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Calories 


Milk, \ pint (10 oz.) 

^ Sago, 1 oz 

1 Sugar, 1 oz. . . . 


•330 
•002 


•400 
•002 


•500 

•860 

bOOO 


200 
101 
112 


2-: 


•332 


•402 


2^36 


413 


Per portion . 


•166 


•201 


118 


206 



1 There is a good deal of variation in the starch and sugar 
content of these milk puddings, according to taste. An egg 
will increase notably the content of protein and fat ; rice instead 
of sago will give more protein. It seems safe to allow \ pint milk 
to each portion. 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



103 



5. Stewed Apples, for six persons (? ) 





Ounces of 






Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Calories 


Apples, 2 lb 

Sugar, ^ lb 


•128 


•160 


4-000 
4-000 


520 
447 


6 j 


•128 


•160 


8^ 


967 




•021 


•027 


b33 


161 



6. Stewed p;.-unes for six persons (? ) (CasselVs Dictionary.) 





% -i- 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Prunes, 1 lb. (16 oz.) 
Sugar, Jib. (4 oz.). • 


-024 


-008 


•662 


•384 


•128 


10-592 
4-000 


1365 
447 


6 ] 


•192 


•064 


14-592 


1812 










•032 


•Oil 


2-432 


302 



104 



FOOD VALUES 



D. Vegetarian Dishes (Food Keform 
Association.) 

1. Semolina Cheese for six persons. (From Econ. 
Dishes for Worker^.) 



Semolina, 6 oz. 
Milk, 1 pint (20 
Cheese, 8 oz. . 
Egg, 1 (2 oz.) . 



oz.) 



12 

252 
•119 



F. 



•007 



c. 



•76 



•337 I -024 
-093 — 



Ounces of 



Pro- 
tein 



•720 
•660 



Fat 



•042 

•800 



2-016 :2-696 
-2381 -186 



6 )3-634 3-724 



•606 



•621 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



4-560 

1-000 
-192 



5-752 



•969 



Ca- 
lories 



624 
402 
975 

76 



2077 
346 



2. Mock chicken cutlet for 4 


persons. 










% -^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




P. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- Tj,„^ 
tein ^^^ 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Walnuts, shelled, 4 oz. 
Bread crumbs, 2 tea- 
cups (4 oz. ?) . 
Butter, 1 oz. . 
1 Milk, 1 pint ? (5 oz.) 
Egg, 1 (2 oz.) . . . 


-182 
-092 
•033 


-607 
-013 
-04 


-137 
■531 
-05 


•728 

•368 
•010 
•165 
•238 


2-428 

•052 
•830 
•200 
•186 


•548 

2124 

•250 


769 

304 
220 
100 

76 


4] 


1509 


3^696 


2-922 


1469 










•377. 


•924 


•730 


367 



1 " A gill " is given in the recipe, to make sauce with a tea- 
spoonful of flour (this small amount of flour has been omitted)' 
In the South of England a gill is usually I pint, in the north it is 
^ pint. The former quantity seems enough for the flour. 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



105 



3. Hotch Potch. 
Hot Pot. 



To be compared with Mrs. Beeton's 



, The recipe is for 6 persons, and consists of J lb. haricot 
beans, with unspecified quantities of potatoes, onions, 
carrots and turnips. To make comparison the amount 
of beans has been increased to lib., as sufficient for 8 
persons, the same amount of potatoes and onions allowed 
as in the Hot Pot recipe ; and in addition 1 lb carrots 
and turnips, also 2 oz. margarine to represent the " fat 
for frying " the onions and carrots. 





% -^ 100 


Ounces of 


'h.. 




P. 


F, 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


j^oriea 


Haricot Beans, 1 lb. . 
Potatoes, 3 lb. . . . 
Onions, J lb. . . . 
Carrots and Turnips, 
1 lb 


•231 

.013 
•012 


•023 

•003 
•83 


•536 
•08 


3-696 
•864 
•104 

•208 
•024 


•368 
•480 
•240 

•480 
1-660 


8-576 

7-056 

•640 

1280 


1520 

930 

92 

184 


Margarine, 2 oz. . 


439 




8 


)1^896 


3-228 


17^552 


3165 










•612 


•404 


2194 


396 



The fuel value of the vegetarian dish is greater. 
This is due to its larger content of carbohydrates ; it is 
a little inferior in fat, and distinctly inferior in protein 
content. It will be found useful to compare the other 
two vegetarian dishes also with the meat and pudding 
dishes in B and C. 



106 



FOOD VALUES 



E. Old-fashioned Recipes. 

It may be of interest to analyse some recipes from 
old cookery books, in which, as is well known, eggs and 
cream were used much more lavishly. It has not been 
easy, however, to find suitable ones, as the quantities are 
often quite vaguely indicated.. In the case of meat 
dishes the joint is mentioned, but no weight given. 
And a further difl&culty arises, because the number of 
persons for whom the dish is intended is not stated. 



1. From Dr. Kitchener's CooFs Oracle, 7th edition, 
1823. 

Vermicelli pudding. 





% -^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. C. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Milk, 20 oz. . . . 
Sugar, 2 oz. (?) . . 
Vermicelli, 4 oz . 
Eggs, 3 whole, 6 oz. . 
2 Extra Yolks = -3 of 
4oz.=l-2oz. . . 


•121 
•119 

•157 


•08 
•093 

•333 


_ 
•756 


•660 

•484 
•714 

•188 


•800 

•320 
•558 

•400 


1^000 
2^000 
3024 


402 
224 
491 
230 

127 


If for 4 Persons — per portion . . 
If for 6 Persons — per portion . . 


2118 
•529 
•353 


2^006 
•501 
•334 


6024 
1-506 
1-004 


1474 
367 
246 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



107 



2. From the same. 
Boiled Custard. 





% ^ 100 1 Ounces of 


Ca- 




P. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Milk, 20 oz. . . . 
Cream, 20 oz. 
Eggs, 6 (12 oz.) . . 
Extra yolks, 4 (see last 
recipe) .... 
Sugar, 4 oz. . . . 


•025 


•185 


•045 


•660 

•500 

1428 

•376 


•800 
3-700 
1116 

•800 


bOOO 
•900 

4^000 


402 

1160 

460 

254 
448 


This is about a quart of custard, so 
should serve 8 people — per portion 


2-964 
•371 


6-416 

•802 


5^900 
•737 


2724 
341 



Comparing these with the puddings in section C 
it will be seen that the first is richer in protein than any, 
though not in fuel value ; the second is richer in pro- 
tein, considerably so in fat, and in fuel value; but 
deficient in carbohydrates. This will generally be the 
case with more expensive dishes. 



I 



108 



FOOD VALUES 



3. From a Cookery book " by a Lady " 1829 (used by 
.the writer's grandmother). Compiled chiefly 
from eighteenth century books. 

" Des Fondis " (Cheese fondue). 



Milk, 10 oz. . 
Butter, 1 oz. . 
Flour, ^ oz. 
Cheese, 8 oz. . 
Eggs, 8 (16 oz.) 
Cream, 10 oz. 



100 



F. 



252 



•337-624 



Ounces of 



Pro- 
tein 



■330 
•010 
•067 
2016 
1^904 
•250 



Fat 



•400 

•830 

•05 

2^696 

b488 

1-850 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



•500 

•374 
•192 

•450 



Ca- 
lorics 



201 
220 
51 
975 
613 
580 



The mixture was put in small cases, 
only half-filled. If enough for 
10 people— per portion 



4-607 



-480 



7-314 



-731 



1-516 



2640 



•152 I 264 

I 



This was presumably the savoury at the end of a 
meal ! It is remarkably rich in protein and fat, but 
has a very small amount of carbohydrates. Fuel value 
equal to a substantial pudding. 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



109 



4. From the same. 

A " Good " Suet Pudding. 





Ounces of 






Protein 


Fat 1 


Carbo- 
' hydrates 


Calories 


Suet, 24 oz 

Flour, 32 oz. ... 
Currants, 16 oz. . . 
Eggs, 6, 12 oz. . . . - 
Milk, 20 oz 


•648 
3-648 

•192 
1-428 

-660 


19-632 

•032 

•048 

1116 

•800 


23-936 
10-240 

1-000 


5310 

3540 

1335 

460 

402 


This pudding weighed 6J 

lb. before boiling ; so 24 

persons should have had 

a 4 oz. helping from it. 

Per portion . 


6-576 

•274 


21-628 
-901 


35-176 
1-466 


11047 
460 



This is rather deficient in protein ; but its large pro- 
portion of fat, and fairly large amount of carbohydrate 
make its fuel value unusually large. 

We shall find great contrast — though the most striking 
part of the comparison would be in the price — in sub- 
joining to these old recipes those for the cheap two- 
course dinners for artisan households, pubHshed by Dr. 
Crowley and Miss M. Cuff of Bradford in 1909. ^ 

^ Information as to the cost of living of the working 
classes of the W. Riding of Yorkshire, published by the 
Education Committee. 



110 



FOOD VALUES 



F. Two- Course Dinners for Man, Wife and Five 
Children, Average age 10 (equivalent to 4-8 
adults.) 

1. Yorkshire Cheese Pudding and Bean Gravy (No. 8). 
Buttered Rice. 





% -i- 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Milk, 20 oz. . . . 
Eggs, 2 (4 oz.) . . 
Flour, 8 oz. ... 
Cheese, 8 oz. . 
Margarine, 1 oz. . 
Beans, 4 oz. . . . 
Onion and Carrot, 4 oz. 


• 
•231 


•023 


•536 


•660 
•476 
•912 
2016 
-012 
•924 
•052 


•800 
•364 
•080 
2-696 
-830 
•092 
•012 


1-000 

5-984 
•192 

2144 
•320 


402 
153 
825 
975 
220 
380 
46 


4-8 ] 


5-052 


4^874 


9-640 


3001 


Per portion . 


1-050 


ls016 


2-010 


625 


Rice, 6 oz -074 

Sugar, 2 oz. ... — 
Margarine, 2 oz. . . — 


-003 


•792 


•444 
•024 


•018 
1-660 


4-752 
2-000 


607 
224 
440 


4-8 ] 


1 ^468 


1-678 


6752 


1271 


Per portion . 


•097 


-350 


1407 


265 


The Whole Meal 1147 


1-365 


3-417 


890 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 111 

2. Fish and Potato Pie with Sauce. Green peas (dried.) 
Blancmange and Jam (No. 11). 





% -^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Fish, 2 lb., without 
bone .... 

Potatoes, 3 lb. 

Margarine, altogether 
3 oz 

Flour, 2 oz. ... 

Milk, 5oz.. . . . 

Peas, 12 oz. . . . 

Sugar, 1 oz. . . 


•184 
•018 

•226 


•043 
•001 

•017 


•147 

n 

•532 


5-888 
•864 

•036 

•228 

•165 

2712 


b376 
•048 

2^490 
•020 
•200 
•204 


7-056 

1-496 

•250 

6^384 

1^000 


1052 

930 

660 
206 
100 
1098 
112 


4.8) 


9893 


4^338 


16186 


4168 


Per portion . 


2^061 


•904 


3-372 


866 


Cornflour, 2 oz. . — 
Sugar, 1 oz. . . . — 
Milk, 25 oz. . . . — 

Jam, 4 oz. ... — 

1 


— 


•9 


•825 
•024 


bOOO 
•004 


1-800 
1000 
1-250 
2-440 


209 
112 

503 
286 


4-8 


•849 


1004 


6-490 


1110 


Per portion . 


•177 


•209 


1-352 


231 


Whole Meal 


2237 


1113 


4724 


1197 



The second is an altogether larger meal th^n the first. 
In the pamphlet a week's menus are given, and a certain 
average for the week is the aim of the writers. 

It may be useful to compare with this a meal selected 
from Mrs. Beeton's recipes, consisting of tomato soup, 
stewed steak and ordinary boiled potatoes, sago pudding 
and stewed apples. 



112 



FOOD VALUES 





Ounces of 






Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Calories 


(3) Tomato Soup . . 
Stewed Steak. . . 
Potatoes, 4 oz. . 
Sago Pudding . 
Stewed Apples . 


•156 
•665 
•060 
•166 
•032 


•261 
•960 
•040 
•201 
•Oil 


•511 
•347 

•588 
1180 
2432 


146 
370 

77 
206 
302 


. 


1079 


1473 


5-058 


1101 



This is equal to the second in fuel value, but very 
inferior to it in protein, in which, however, it is equal to 
the first. 

It is rather important to work out the food value 
of the chief meal of the day, and then to determine 
whether another " substantial " meal (which generally 
means a meal rich in protein) must be supplied. If an 
ordinary adult consumes 12 oz. bread and 1 oz. butter 
at the smaller meals, and 1 oz. jam ; -| pint of milk and 
1 oz. sugar in beverages, these mil add up to — 



Ounces of 



Protein 
1450 



Fat Carbo- 

iiydrates 

1^387 8-482 



Calories 
1516 



With Meal No. 1 . 



Protein 



2-610 
3-687 
2-529 



Fat 



2-737 
2-496 
2^860 



Carbo- 
liydrates 



11^892 
13-206 
13-540 



Calories 



2414 
2632 
2617 



The amount still to be made up depends, of course, on 
the standard of diet selected, whether of low or high 



THE USE OF ^HE TABLES 113 

protein ; but it will be observed that No. 2 is the only 
one which could possibly do with very little more pro- 
tein ; it might have most of the remaining Calories made 
up with fat, starch or sugar. This is the one containing 
cheese and beans (no meat and no fish), but as it throws 
more strain on digestion than the latter would, it could 
not be repeated very often. With the other two diets 
another meal fairly rich in protein should be supplied ; 
one with eggs, cheese, pulses, or more meat. 

Some interesting work has been done in both Bradford 
and Edinburgh ^ in trying to fix a standard content of 
nutriment for children's school dinners. It has been 
assumed that the allowance of protein and fat at this, 
their chief meal, should be liberal ; as in the remaining 
part of their meals the cheaper carbohydrates are likely 
to predominate. The standard at Bradford is 29 gr. 
protein, 18 gr. fat, or just over 1 oz. protein, -635 fat. 
If the average child fed takes -5 of a man's allowance, 
this is equivalent to giving a man 2 oz. protein, 1-27 oz. 
fat at a meal. The standard at Edinburgh is about the 
same in protein, but half the quantity of fat. It is 
desirable to collect more observations and calculations 
on this subject. 

II. DIETARIES FOR A SINGLE DAY 

Several are quoted by Hutchison from an early 

Bulletin by Atwater, and are worked out fully, to show 

that each gives about 125 grams protein and 35C0 

Calories. The food (which is American), is given in 

daily rations, not meals, and on the whole has not much 

variety in the ingredients, not as much as one would get 

in an ordinary household. The actual weight of food 

1 Chalmers Watson, Book of Diet. 

I 



114 



FOOD VALUES 



consumed varies from 30 oz. to 71 oz., i.e. from 2J lb. 
to nearly 4 J lb., the average being about 3 lb. An 
ordinary diet for an [adult is usually between 3 and 
4 lb. per diem. 

The following daily diet has been given in various 
treatises, for example in Newsholme's Hygiene, 1902. 





% H- 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


C. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Bread, 1 lb. (16 oz.) . 
Meat, |lb. (8 oz.). . 
Eggs, 2 (4 oz.) . . 
Cheese, \ lb. (2 oz.) . 
Fat (butter), J lb. (4 

oz.) 

Potatoes, 1 lb. (16 oz.) 
Milk, i pint (10 oz.) . 


•092 
•145 
•119 
•252 

•01 

•018 

•033 


•013 
•161 
•093 
•337 

•83 

•001 

•040 


•531 

•024 

•147 
•050 


1472 

M60 

•476 

•504 

•040 
•288 
•330 


•208 

b288 

•372 

•674 

3-320 
•016 
•400 


8-496 

•048 

2-352 
•500 


1215 
456 
153 
244 

877 
310 
201 




4246 


6-278 


11-396 


3456 



The protein is about 121 grams, close to Atwater's 
standard, but the amount of fat is very large, and would 
be some tax on the digestion. 

2. From p. 64 of Dietetics by Dr. A. Bryce (see Books 
for Reference). Some of the items, such as bread and 
butter, are added together instead of divided into 
separate meals. For made dishes, such as tomato soup 
and sago pudding, a single helping according to Mrs. 
Beeton's recipes is substituted for the weight he gives 
as a helping of the mixture. 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



1]5 





%.-i- 100 


Ounces of 












Ca- 
















lories 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 




Banana, 3^ oz. 


•013 


•006 


•021 


•045 


•021 


•073 


100 


Cooked Cereal, | oz.i 


— 


— 


— 


•020 


•Oil 


•090 




Milk, 6 oz 


•033 


•04 


•05 


•198 


•240 


•300 


121 


Bacon, 2 oz. . . 


•095 


•594 


— 


•190 


1188 





336 


Egg, 2 oz 


•119 


•093 




•238 


•186 





77 


Marmalade, I oz. . . 


•006 


•001 


•845 


•001 




•211 


25 


Sugar, 1 oz. . . . 


— 





— 


— 


— 


bOOO 


112 


Bread, 9 oz. . . . 


•092 


•013 


•531 


•828 


•117 


4^779 


684 


Butter, 1 oz. . . . 


— 


— 


— 


•010 


•830 




220 


Cream, |^ oz. . 


•025 


•185 


•045 


•012 


•092 


•022 


28 


Tomato Soup, one por- 
















tion ..... 








•156 


•261 


•511 


146 


Beef, cooked, 4 oz. 








(as U.S.A.) . . . 


•223 


•286 


— 


•892 


M44 


— 


405 


Potatoes, 3 oz. . . 


•0152 


•001 


•147 


•045 


•003 


•441 


58 


Cauliflower, 3 oz. . . 


•014 


•002 


•048 


•042 


•006 


•144 


27 


Sago Pudding (one por- 
















tion) . . 




— 


— 


•166 


•201 


1^180 


206 


Prunes 


— 


— 


— 


•032 


•Oil 


2-432 


302 


Cheese, J oz. , . . 


•252 


•337 


•024 


•063 


•084 


•006 


30 


Biscuit, ;^ oz. . 


•107 


•088 


•719 


•027 


•022 


•180 


30 


Fish, 5 oz. ... 


•184 


•043 


— 


•920 


•215 


— 


165 


Apples, stewed, one 
















portion .... 




— 


— 


•021 


•027 


b330 


161 




3^906 


4659 


12-696 


3233 



^ Taking porridge as 8 oz. oatmeal to 1 qt. (40 oz.) water, 
48 oz. porridge contains P. 1-288, F. -704, C. 5^752. If no allow- 
ance is made for loss of water 1 oz. contains P. ^027, F. -015 
C. •I 20; f oz. is an unusually small helping. 

2 As these potatoes are probably peeled and put into cold 
water, at least 16 per cent of the protein was lost ; therefore 
•015 is substituted for ^018. 

Though this diet appears very moderate in the separate 
quantities the total shows that, according to the highest 



116 FOOD VALUES 

standards, it is ample, or too much for a man of sedentary 
habits. The amount of fat is very large — over 4J oz. 
Perhaps we should treat the small percentages of " fat " 
derived from vegetables and fruits as somewhat illusory, 
but subtracting them would leave the total well over 
4 oz. ; though the fish was considered to be white fish 
with a comparatively small. fat content. 

It is not easy to obtain samples of daily diets, except 
peculiar ones undertaken for experiment, and a collec- 
tion of specimen diets taken by ordinary people under 
ordinary conditions would be very helpful. 

The dieteticians in the United States have advanced 
much farther than any one else in the direction of 
systematic estimation and tabulation of the actual 
food eaten, so as to give, very readily, approximation to 
the amount of nutriment taken. Dr. Irving Fisher ^ 
divides food into portions, each of which supplies 100 
Calories. Amongst them are — 

A large slice of Bread (about 1^ oz. probably). 

One Egg (a large one (?). 

One Potato (size not stated). 

4-9 oz. Milk (practically J pint). 

A small piece of Cooked Beef (sirloin). 

An " ordinary pat " of Butter. 

1 Banana. 

1 dozen Almonds. 

1 dozen Oysters. 

5 teaspoonfuls Sugar. 

Some . of the quantities are unfortunately a little 

^vague, if they cannot be actually seen. The content 

of protein, etc., is of course very varied. The oysters, 

egg and beef stand highest in protein, butter, almonds 

* Chittenden. Nutrition of Man, 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



117 



and beef in fat. The sugar is naturally highest in 
carbohydrates, as it contains nothing else ; bread comes 
next, of these selected specimens. 

A special interest attaches at present to soldiers' 
daily rations. Very strict regulations have been pro- 
mulgated for them under ordinary peace conditions by 
War Office authorities, medical and otherwise. Unfor- 
tunately during peace time and in normal service 
a soldier's allowance does not cover the whole of his 
daily food. He gets — 





Protein 


Fat 


hy'cf/ats 1 Calories 


Meat, 12 oz 

Bread, 16 oz. . . . 


1-740 
1-472 


1-932 

•208 


8-496 


744 
1215 




3-212 


2140 


8-496 


^ 1959 



This of course is far from being a complete diet. 
The usual allowance for groceries and vegetables seems 
to have been most frequently M. per day before the 
war, which seems very little, especially as tea, milk 
and sugar will be the first necessary items. 

A Government Report on the rations of soldiers in 
various nations of Europe was published in 1889 ; from 
this it appeared that the EngUsh allowance of meat was 
the largest, and the bread one of the smallest in Europe. 

The Field Ration, for " active operations in the 
field " is given in detail in the Regulations for the 
Allowances of the Army, and is analysed below. It is 
subject to modification by climate and circumstances. 
The "iron ration," which is portable, is not given, as 
it is presumed to be an emergency rather than a daily 
diet. 



118 



FOOD VALUES 





% ^ 100 


Ounces of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


x-^i. Carbo- 
^^^ hydrates 


lories 


Meat, 20 oz. (beef) . 


•152 


•155 




3040 3100 




1169 


Bread, 20 oz. 


•092 


•013 


•531 


1-840! -260 10^620 


1519 


Bacon, 4 oz. . . . 


•095 


•594 


— 


•380 2-376 





671 


Cheese, 3 oz. . 


•252 


•337 


•024 


•756 1 •on 


•072 


366 


Peas or Beans, 2 oz. 
















(mean) .... 


•228 


•02 


•534 


•456 


-040 


1-068 


186 


Jam, 4 oz. ... 


•006 


•001 


•61 


-024 


-004 


2-440 


286 


Sugar, 3 oz. 


— 


— 


— 


— 




3-000 


336 




6-496 6-791 


17-200 


4533 



This is a very ample allowance in every way. Colonel 
Melville ^ made a report to the British Medical Associ- 
ation in 1910 of experiments on soldiers' rations while 
on active service, from which he deduced the necessity 
of a large allowance of protein and of fat, when the 
men had to undergo unusual fatigue, exposure, and 
long hours without food. He recommended about 6-7 
oz. protein, though not so much fat as in the above 
ration ; with a minimum of 4,000 Calories. 



III. WEEKLY BUDGETS 

1. This is taken from the book entitled The Pudding 
Lady. It is the weekly purchases of a working woman 
who had profited by the lessons of the " Pudding Lady " 
(Miss Florence Petty). 

The family consisted of man, wife and two children, 
whose ages are not stated. 

^ British Medical Journal, 1910. 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



119 



Man . 
Woman 
One child 
Another child 



10 
♦8 
•6 
•4 



Total s . . . . .2-8 Adults 

The meat seemed to be cheap but very sensibly chosen 
and cooked, so the average food value is allowed for it. 
Tea and coffee are omitted, as of negligible food value. 





% -^ 100 


Pounds. 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Eat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lorie? 


Bleat, 9 lb. (cheap, but 
















well chosen). 


•145 


•161 


— 


1-305 


1499 


— 


8217 


Bread, 17 lb. . . . 


•092 


•013 


.531 


1564 


•221 


9027 


8645 


Flour, 4 lb. . . . 


•114 


•010 


•748 


•456 


•040 


2-992 


6600 


Milk, 1 tin (lib. ?). . 


•090 


•135 


•515 


•090 


•135 


•515 


1691 


Sugar, 2| lb. . . . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


■ — 


2^500 


4475 


Butter, 1 lb. . . . 


•01 


•830 


— 


•007 


•627 


— 


2633 


Suet, 2 oz 


•047 


•818 


— 


•006 


•102 


— 


442 


Carrots, 3 lb. . . . 


•013 


•003 


•08 


•039 


•009 


•240 


552 


Onions, 3 lb. . . . 


•013 


•003 


•08 


•039 


•009 


•240 


552 


Greens, 1 lb. . . 


— 


— 


— 


•014 


•002 


•048 


145 


Potatoes, 16^ lb. . . 


•018 


•001 


•147 


•297 


•016 


2^425 


5115 


Cocoa, i lb. . . . 


•216 


•289 


•377 


•054 


•072 


•094 


680 


Fish, i lb 


•184 


•043 


— 


•092 


•022 


— 


• 263 




7^ 


)3^963 


2^754 


18^081 


39910 




•566 


•393 


2^583 


5701 




^28 


)5^661 


3934 


25-830 


57014 




•202 


•140 


•922 


2036 










16 












3232 


2240 


14752 





This dietary is seen to be inadequate in every 
particular. 

1 See note to next table. 



120 



FOOD VALUES 



2. This budget was drawn up by a working woman 
who was attending a School for Mothers. It was 
awarded a prize in a competition in an evening paper, 
the outlay being 15s., at prices immediately before the 





% - 100 


Pounds 


Ca- 
















lories 




p. 
•145 


•161 


c. 


•tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 




Meat, 6| lb. . . 




•942 


1^046 




5934 


Sausages, 1 lb. . . 


— 


: — 


— 


•123 


•210 


•Oil 


1132 


Flour, 3 lb. . . 


•114 


•01 


•748 


•342 


•030 


2-244 


4950 


Bread, 14 lb. . . 


•092 


■013 


•531 


1-288 


•182 


7434 


17010 


]Vlilk,8flb.(7pts.). 


•033 


•04 


•05 


•289 


•350 


•440 


2713 


Eggs, 12, 11 lb. . 


•119 


•093 


— 


•178 


•139 


— 


919 


Sugar, 3 lb. . . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


3000 


5370 


Margarine, 1 lb. 


— 


— 


— 


•012 


•830 


— 


3520 


Dripping, 1 lb. 


— 


— 




•022 


•940 


— 


4000 


Suet, 1 lb. . . 


•047 


•818 




•023 


•409 — 


1770 


Bacon, | lb. ... 


•095 


•594 


— 


•071 


•445 — 


2014 


Cheese, f lb. . . . 


•252 


•337 


•024 


•189 


•253 ^018 


14F2 


Oatmeal, 2 lb. 


•161 


•074 


•652 


•322 


•148 j b304 


3518 


Herrings, ^ lb. 


•112 


•039 


— 


•056 


•019 — 


181 


Other fish, 1^ lb. . 


•109 


•024 


— 


•163 


•036 i — 


442 


Rice, 1 lb. . . . 


— 


— 


— 


•074 


•004 -792 


1620 


Haricot Beans, 1 lb. 




— 


— 


•231 


•023 ^536 


1520 


Jams, 2 lb. . . 


•006 


•001 


•61 


•012 


•002 b220 


2290 


Potatoes, 8 lb. 


•018 


•001 


•047 


•144 


•008 i ^376 

1 


2480 


7 ] 
Daily diet . ^ 3-3 


14481 


5034 


17375 


62845 


•6401 


•719 


24821 


8977^9 


Per adult . . . 


•194 


•218 


•752 
16 


2721 


Ounces 




• 


• 


3104 


3^488 


12032 





1 To divide by 3^3, 2^8 and similar numbers with one decimal. 
It is advisable for greater accuracy, though not necessary, to 
caiTy the division by 7 one decimal place further (giving the 
Calories one decimal place). Then move all the decimal points 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 121 

War. The compiler showed much ingenuity and resource 
in getting reduced prices for meat and eggs. Some 
articles were not given in quantity, but only their cost ; 
the quantity was deduced from the prices current at the 
time. The family was a man, wife and three children, 
ages not stated. Taking each child as -5 of a man the 
total represents 3-3 adults. 

This is a fuller diet than the last one, but the Calories 
are not enough for a man at manual labour, and the same 
is probably true for the other members of his family. 
The supply of fat seems adequate, but the protein is not 
quite 90 grams ; either that, or the carbohydrates, or 
both, needs substantial increase. There are no vege- 
tables other than potatoes. 

3. The following weekly budget was given in an 
anonymous letter published in The Times of October 6, 
1915, to show the rise in prices in the first year of the 
War. It included figures for consumption of gas and 
for laundry which are omitted. It is not given in so 
much detail as the previous budget, smaller expenses 
being classed together. There are several curious, 
omissions, possibly of materials of which the price had 
not increased. These are potatoes and other vegetables 
fat other than butter (possibly the fat supplied in the 
ample allow^ance of meat was sufficient), and jam. 
The use of 6 lb. of flour weekly points to making puddings 
or cakes which would require fat. It may be included 

one place to the left, and proceed to divide by 33, 28, etc. as 
whole numbers. Factors can often be taken, as 3 and 11, 7 and 
4, and short division used. Thus with this dietary 

11)6401 7-19 24-821 8977' 9 

3)^82 '6 54 2-256 8162 

^194 ^218 ^752 2721 



122 



FOOD VALUES 



under " pudding materials," and jam also included here. 
The last drawback to the budget is that it is for " five 
persons, one a child," the sexes not' stated. However, it 
does give the main items of expenditure of a family in 
or near London of the professional class. 

We must fix first the number of adult men to which 
the family is equivalent. If the four adults are one man 
and three women (it is probably a two-servant house- 
hold), and the child is taken as -6 of a man, we have 
1+3 X -8+6 =4 adult men exactly. If there are two 
men and two women the total would be 4-2. But this 
assumes that the men take all their meals at home, 
which is very unlikely. On the other hand, two ser- 
vants might perhaps each be counted as -9 of a man, if 
the mistress is -8, as they do much more manual labour. 
We will give the result of both divisions : — 





% -^ 100 


Pounds of 


Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lorifes 


Meat, 13 lb. (pre-war 














price, ll^d.) . . 


•145 


•161 


■ — 


1-885 


2093 


— 11869 


Bread, 20 lb. " . . . 


•092 


•013 


•531 


1-840 


•260 


10620 24300 


Flour, 6 lb. ... 


•114 


•01 


•748 


•684 


•060 


4^488 


9900 


Eggs, 12 (1^ lb.) . . 


•119 


•093 


— 


•178 


•139 


— 


919 


Milk, 11 quarts (27^ 
















lb.) 


•033 


•04 


•05 


•907 


MOO 


1375 


8855 


Butter, 2 lb. . . . 


•01 


•83 





•020 


1-660 


— 


7020 


Bacon, 2 lb. . . . 


•095 


•594 


— 


•190 


M88 


— 


5370 


Cheese, 1^ lb. . . . 


•252 


•337 


•024 


•378 


•505 


•036 


2926 


Fish (pre-war price. 
















25. 3rf.),3ilb.assold 


•109 


•024 





•381 


•084 


— 1032 


Sugar, 5 lb. ... 










^ 





5-000 


8960 


Beer and Stout, 1 doz. 
















qts. =30 lb. . . . 


•006 


— 


•013 


•180 


— 


•390 


1050 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 



123 





% -^ 100 




Pounds of 














Ca- 




p. 


F. 


c. 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


lories 


Cocoa, 1^ lb. ... 


•216 !-289 


•377 


•108 


•144 


•188 


1160 


(Tea and Coffee omitted) 


1 












Deduced from the fol- 














lowing items : — 














Pudding material, 














stewed fruit = 














25. 3d. (pre-war.) 


i 
1 












Cakes, fniit, salad, 


i 












condiments =45. 














(pre-war.) 
















Rice, 4 oz 


•074 


•003 


•792 


•018 


•001 


•198 


405 


Sago, 4 oz. ... 


•002 002 


•860 


— 


— 


•215 


402 


Fruit, 4 lb. ... 


•004 005 


•080 


•016 


•020 


•320 


800 


Salad, I lb. ... 


•001 1 — 


•030 


•001 





•030 


65 


Cake, 1 lb. ... 


•063>090 


•633 


•063 


•090 


•633 


1670 


Dry Fruit, 8 oz. . 


•018 -038 


•693 


•009 


•019 


•347 


740 


And added — 














Potatoes, 10 lb. . . 


•015 


•010 


•147 


•150 


•100 


•1470 


3100 


Green vegetables) 2 lb. 
Onions, etc. J 1 lb. 


•014 


•002 


•048 


•028 


•004 


•096 


290 


•013 


•003 


•080 


•013 


•003 


•080 


184 




Total 7 . 
nption . 4 j 
m . . . 


7^049 


7-470 


25-486 


90996 


Daily consur 


b007 


1-067 


3641 


13000 


Per adult m« 


•252 


•267 


•910 


3250 










16 




In Qunces 


4^032 


4272 


14^560 


3250 


Division by 4-2 insteac 


[ of 4 gives 










Ounces 


■ 


3^840 


4^069 


13-867 


3095 



Even tke lower numbers give a quite ample diet on 
the Atwater standard, with a large proportion of fat. 
In fact the numbers are unnecessarily high for an adult 
man doing sedentary work. But they are not at all 



124 



FOOD VALUES 



discrepant with Dr. Bryce's daily diet for a professional 
man (see p. 115). One is of course always struck by 
the much greater variety of food possible in the more 
expensive diet. 

Budget of Weekly Purchases from Letter in Times. 
Calculations Abbreviated. Calories are omitted 
as they are the same. 





% 


-T- 100 




Protein 


Fat 


Cii rbo- 




P. 


F. 


c. 


hydrates 


Meat, 13 lb. . . . 


•15 


•16 




195 


2^08 




Bread, 20 lb. 






•09 


•01 


•53 


b80 


•20 


10^62 


Flour, 6 lb. 






•11 


•01 


•75 


•66 


•06 


4-50 


Eggs, 1| lb. 






1 *12 


•09 


— 


•18 


•14 


— 


Milk, 27| lb. 






03 


•04 


•05 


•82 


110 


1-38 


Butter, 2 lb. 






•01 


•83 


— 


•02 


1-66 


— 


Bacon, 2 lb. 






•01 


•59 





•02 


118 


— 


Cheese, 1| lb. 






1 25 


•34 


•02 


•38 


•51 


•03 


Fish, 31 lb. 






•11 


•02 


— 


•38 


•07 


— 


Sugar, 5 lb. 






1 


— 


— 


— 


— 


5-00 


Beer, 30 lb. 






' 01 


— 


•01 


•30 


■ — 


•30 


Cocoa, i lb. 






; -22 


•29 


•38 


•11 


•14 


•19 


Rice, i lb. 






! .07 


— 


•79 


•02 


— 


•20 


Sago, I lb. 






— 


— 


•86 


— 


, — 


21 


Fruit, 4 lb. 






— 


-L_ • 


•08 





— 


32 


Salad, 1 lb. 












•03 





— 


•03 


Cake, 1 lb. 






•06 


•09 


•63 


•06 


•09 


•63 


Dry Fruit, i lb. 




•02 


•04 


•69 


•01 


•02 


•35 


Potatoes, 10 lb. 




1 -02 





•15 


•20 


— 


1-50 


Greens, 2 lb. . 




•01 


— 


•05 


•02 


— 


•10 • 


Onions, etc., 1 lb. 


1 01 


— 


•08 


•01 


— 


•08 










692 


725 


2544 


Instead of ... 








7:067 


7-470 


25^346 



The list of weekly purchases given is worked out 
above with the food values of each item taken in whole 



THE USE OF THE TABLES 125 

numbers, decimals omitted (see p. 95). As the quan- 
tities are very large the results will show some appreci- 
able difference, but the working is much easier. And 
we must repeat that there is nothing fixed or final 
about the analyses taken, they are only averages. 
The new figures are all a little less ; the fat particularly. 
This is because the very small percentage of fat in such 
articles as fruit and salad has not been taken in. But 
all the results as they stand would be quite accurate 
enough for the general conclusions drawn from these 
dietaries. 



CHAPTER VII 

MISCELLANEOUS CALCULATIONS 

I. How TO Calculate Calories from Analyses 

GIVING ONLY PrOTEIN, FaT, CARBOHYDRATES. 

A. The fuel value of a given dish or portion of a 
dish. 

One portion of sponge pudding (p. 101) contains 
Protein -305 oz., fat -599 oz., carbohydrates 2461. 
What is its fuel value ? The protein and carbohydrates 
are added together, as they have the same multiplier — 
116 for each oz. 

The multiplier for the fat is 263. 

It is very easy to multiply by 116 ; but in the other 
case usually easier to make the other number the mul- 
tiplier. After doing a few calculations, the product of 
263 and any of the units, from 2 to 9, is easily memor- 
ized, or a note may be kept of them. If there is no 
abbreviation the results will be given to 3 decimal 
places, whereas only whole numbers are required for 
Calories. Readers who are familiar with approximations 
for multiplication by decimals will make their own 
approximations. Others may be contented with striking 
off the last figure from the decimal quantities given. 

X26 



MISCELLANEOUS CALCULATIONS 127 



Protein -305 


Fat -599 


Carbohydrates 2-461 


263 




60 


2-766 






157-80 


Take 2-77 




116 





321-32 
157-80 



479-12. Total Calories=479 



Calculated in full this gives 478-39. 

B. To find the fuel value per lb. when the analysis of 
a sample of the material is given. 

This is often the case in the works of older authorities, 
as the constant reference to fuel values is comparatively 
recent. 

The method is similar to the above, but the percentage 
numbers of the analysis are first divided by 100, and 
then treated as decimals of 1 lb. They have therefore 
to be multipHed by new factors, 16x116 in one case, 
16 x263 in the other ; or 1856 and 4208. Or we can if 
we like perform the multipHcations as above, and then 
multiply the total result by 16 to convert Calories per 
oz. into Calories per lb. 

Another way is to take approximate multipHers, and 
use 1860, and 4210. First multiply by 10, and then 
use 186 and 421 as multipHers. 

Example. The percentage composition of biscuit 



128 FOOD VALUES 

is given in Appendix G, Rowntree's Poverty, as — 
Protein 8-7, Fat 2-6, Carbohydrates 55-3. What is its 
fuel value per lb. ? 

[N.B. The fat content of biscuit is extremely vari- 
able ; this is very low. An American cracker has about 
9 per cent., and many EngUsh biscuits have more.] 

Per lb. 
Protein -087 Fat. -020 

Carbohydrates -553 



•640 



These numbers are to be multiplied by 10 however, 
so they would have been better copied down with the 
decimal point moved one place to the left, not two. 

26. 



Protein 


•87 


Fat '2 


Carbohydrates 


5^53 
6-4 






186 


421 




6-4 


•26 




1190^4^ 


109-46 




109^46 





1299-86 

Total fuel value 1300 Calories. 

This is slightly too large as both approximations have 
been made in the direction of Increase, The more 
accurate working gives 1296 Calories. 

If a large number of calculations have to be done 



MISCELLANEOUS CALCULATIONS 129 

the products of 421 and 186 into all the units from 2 
to 9 can be noted or memorized.^ 

II. Nutritive Ratios. 

To obtain the nutritive ratio of the dish, or of the 
material, the Calories supplied by the Protein alone 

must be calculated. The ratio =^'^^"""^ ^'^°'" P^°*"'° 

Total Calories 

Thus in Example A. — Sponge Pudding : — 
Protein=-305 oz.-:-31 
Calories=-31 X 116=35:96=36. 

36 

Ratio is , a little more than xVth, which is low. 

479 ^ ^ 

In Example B. — Biscuit : — 
Protein 8-7 per cent. =-087 in 1 lb. 
Calories=-87xl86=161-82=162. 

.162 
Ratio is : , a little less than ith. 

This would satisfy those who approve of only a 
moderate supply of protein. 

As a third example we will take a food rich in protein, 
such as Egg. 

Protein 11-9 per cent. =-119 in 1 lb. 
M9xl86=221-34=221 

991 

Ratio= — =1 to 2-78. 
613 

which is of course very high. 

^ Atwater gives, instead of Eubner's figures quoted on 
p. 22, 1 gr. protein 4 cal., 1 gr. fat 8 9 cal., 1 gr. carbo- 
hydrate 4 cal. ; but these figures have not come into general 
use. 

K 



130 FOOD VALUES 

III. Calculations with regard to Food which 
Absorb a good deal of Water during Cooking. 

Sometimes, as in the case of porridge (see p. 115 note) 
the calculation of the food value after cooking is very 
simple. If a weighed amount of oatmeal is put into a 
measured quantity of water, and a definite fraction of 
the whole served to each person after cooking, say J, 
we can easily determine the food value of J of the 
original amount of oatmeal. We cannot tell the exact 
weight of this portion, unless we know how much water 
was lost during cooking. The 48 oz., consisting of 
8 oz. oatmeal, 40 oz. water, will not be quite 48 oz. 
porridge and the sixth- portion will not weigh J lb. 

Similarly a certain fraction of a sago pudding of 
specified ingredients will have definite food value. 
But if a person is stated to have* partaken of 4 oz. of 
sago pudding," we cannot give the approximate value, 
even if we know the recipe on which it was prepared, 
without knowing the actual weight of the pudding after 
cooking. This indeed would vary with the time taken 
to cook it. 

It has not been possible to obtain any data for the 
loss of weight in cooking of either baked or boiled 
dishes of mixed ingredients ; nor of the similar loss for 
cakes, which would be easier to determine. Observa- 
tions on this matter would be very useful and valu- 
able. 

" However, some data are available for the actual com- 
position of dry foods which have been cooked in water, 
and allowed to absorb as much as they can. (See Tables. ) 
It is possible to determine from each of these a very 
valuable piece of information — the proportion of water 



MISCELLANEOUS CALCULATIONS 131 

absorbed during cooking. The use of a little simple 
algebra is necessary. 

1. Dry rice contains about 12 per cent, of water; 
cooked rice about 72 per cent. How much water has 
been absorbed ? 

Let 1 oz. rice absorb x oz. water, thus becoming (1+x) 
oz. after cooking. 

•12 oz. water+x oz. water=-72 of (1+x) oz. water. 
Making the decimals whole numbers 
11+100 x=72+72 X 
^^ 72-12 _60_15_^, 
100—72 28 7 '' 
Therefore rice absorbs a little more than twice its 
weight of water. 

2. Macaroni, dry, contains 10*3 per cent, water, 
cooked macaroni 784 per cent. 

•l63+a:=-784(l+x). 

[Here a decimal place was introduced into the original 

data, so we have three decimals on dividing by ICO, 

and to get whole numbers we must multiply by IGCO. 

103 + 1000 a;=784+784 x 

784—103 681 „,. 

x= = — =3-16 

1000—784 216 

Macaroni absorbs a little more than three times its 
weight. ' 

3. Haricot beans, dry, contain 13-6 per cent, water, 
cooked, 73-7 per cent. 

136+1000 0^=737+737 x 

737_136 

ic= =2-3 nearly. 

1000—737 

They absorb between 2J and 2J of their weight. 



132 FOOD VALUES 

It is hoped that the reader unversed in algebra will 
now see a " rule " emerging from these three examples. 
The proportion desired is obtained^ by dividing one 
number by a second. The first is got by subtracting 
the lower percentage from the higher. The second is 
got by subtracting the higher percentage from either 
100 or 1000, according to whether you have two figures 
or three. 

But we have not yet quite succeeded in getting this 
statistic in its most useful form for a cook. Practical 
experimenters always give the result as the hulh or 
volume of water absorbed, not the weight ; and this is 
indeed the figure most often required in practice. How 
are we to connect one with the other ? 

A good deal of measurement by spoonfuls is done in 
cooking, instead of by weight. It is customary to con- 
sider a tablespoonful of the following to be about equi- 
valent to an ounce — flour, fine sugar, rice and other 
small grains, cornflour and similar powders ; but this is 
rather a rough estimate. In water a tablespoonful is 
only about half an ounce. (It is also only about half 
an ounce in such a light porous material as bread- 
crumbs, whereas the same volume of syrup or jam is 
about 2 oz.) This looks as if these grains and powders 
were about twice as heavy as water. In this case the 
figures obtained above will have to be multiplied by two 
to give the relative volume of water absorbed. 

But water must be a level tablespoonful, while the 
powders are always " heaped " more or less. Further, 
the " fluid ounce " which is equal to two tablespoonfuls 
of water is slightly greater than the ordinary ounce. 
So that it would be probably nearer the truth to take 
IJ times the numbers. This would give for rice 3y^or 



MISCELLANEOUS CALCULATIONS 133 

3i its volume, for beans 3 J nearly, and for macaroni 
4 J or 4 1 the volume. 

It seems customary among cooks to allow about 3 
times the volume for rice, and about 5 times for macaroni, 
but no doubt a more accurate measurement would be 
useful. 

Lastly, if one is given the increase of weight on cook- 
ing in water, the new food value is quite readily deter- 
mined. Supposing 1 oz. of the food becomes 3J oz. 
after it has absorbed water, we have only to take the 
various food values for 1 oz. and the Calories for the 
same, and divide by ^ to get the new values per oz. 



INDEX 



Albumin, 6, 68 
Alcohol, 24 

In bread, 75 
Almonds, 90, 91, 116 
Army Rations, 117 
Anabolism, 26 
Angelica, 88 

Animal Food, Digestibility of, 93 
Apples, 52, 87, 90 

Stewed, 103 
Apple Jam, 89 
Apricots, 87, 88 
Armour's Extract, 64 
Arrowroot, 21 
Artichokes, 80, 81 
Asparagus, 83 
Atwater, Prof., quoted, 28, 31, 36, 39 

43, 48, 49, 53, 57, 113, 129 
Bacon, 54 
Ballard quoted, 85 
Bananas, 56, 87, 116 
Budgets, Weekly, 118-124 
Barlev, 71, 72, 93 

Pearl, 56, 72 
Beans, 6, 52, 56, 86 

Broad, 86 

Butter, 86 

Haricot, 85, 86, 131, 133 

Kidney, 86 note 
Bean Gravy, 110 
Beef, 52, 54, 57, 59, 116 

Salt, 57 

Steak, 57, 93 

Tinned, 58 
Beer, 56 
Beet, 80, 81 

Beeton, Mrs., Recipes analysed, 97-102 
Beri-beri, 19 
Beverages, 91, 92 
Bilberries, 87, 88 
Biscuits, 56, 128, 129 
Blackberries, 87, 89 
Blaeberries, 87 
Blancmange, 111 

Blj-th Wynter quoted, 62, 69, 70 
Body-building Food, 15 
Bones, 62 
Bovril, 64 

Bradford School Dinners, 113 
Brand's Essence, 64 
Brazil Nuts, 90 
Bread. 20, 56, 75-77, 93, 116 

Crust and Crumb, 76 

Loss in Cooking, 75 

Nutritive Ratio of, 37, 38 
Brussels Sprouts, 83 
Bryce, Dr. A., quoted, 114 
Buckwheat, 71, 72, 93 
Bunge quoted, 52 
Butter, 21, 55, 69, 116 



Buttermilk, 55 

Cabbage, 52, 83 

Calcium, 51, 52 

Calories. 14, 27-29, 41, 42, 116, 126-129 

Cake. 56 

Capon, 60 

Carbohydrates, 4, 22, 34-36, 92, 93 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery, 103 

Carrawav Seeds, 23 

Carrot, 52, 56, 80, 81 

Casein, 6, 68 

Cauliflower, 83 

Celeriac, 80 

Celety, 84 

Cellulose, 5, 84 note, 89 

Cereals, 71, 74, 93 

Cheese. 21, 52, 55, 70 

Dishes analysed, 104, 108, 110 
Chemist's View of Food, The, 8 
Cherries, 87, 88 
Chestnuts. 52, 90, 91 
Chicken, 60 

Cutlet, Mock, 104 
Children's Reqmrements in Food, 
42 seq., 53 

Dinners, 113 
Chittenden, Prof., quoted, 31, 37, 116 
Chocolate, 56 
Cocoa. 24, 56, 92 
Coco-nut, 90, 91 
Cod. 65 
Coffee, 24. 56 note, 92 

" Cereal," 92 

" Parched Corn," 92 
Condiments, 28 
Cornflour, 21, 56, 78, 90, 111 
Crab, 55 
Cranberries, 87 
Cream, 55 
Crowley, Dr., 109 
Cucumber, 84 
Cuff, Miss M., 109 
Currants (fresh and dried), 87 
Custard, 107 

Powders, 67 
Danish Statistics, 44 
Dates, 87 

Dietaries, Daily, 114-118 
Dietetician's View of Food, 7 
Duck, 55, 60 

Eggs, 66 
Dunlop. Dr.. quoted, 28, 31 
Edinburgh, Diet Studies in, 28, 31 

School Dinners, 113 

See also Paton. 
Eel, 65 

Eggs, 16, 52, 55, 66, 116, 129 
Egg Powders, 67 
Endive, 84 
Energy, 13 



134 



INDEX 



135 



Engel's Table, 44 

Extractives, 60 

Extracts, Meat, 60-63 

Factors, Accessory, 21 

Farmers' Bulletins quoted, 60, 65, 66, 

71, 73, 74, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 86, 90, 

91, 93 
" Fat " in Fruit, 87 
Fats, 3, 22, 34-36, 35, 69, 92, 93 
Figs, 87 
Filbert, 90, 91 
Fish, 55, 65 
Fish Pie Analysed, 111 
Fisher, Dr. Irving, 116 
Flounder, 65 
Flour, 56, 72, 73, 74 
Force, 78 
Fowl, 60 
Fructose, 88 
Fruit— (1) Dried, 56, 87 
(2) Fresh, 56, 86-88, 93 
Tinned, 88 
Candied, 88 
Fuel, Food compared to, 12 
Fuel Value, 14, 22 
Garlic, 80 

Gelatine, 61, 62, 63, 90 
" Germany's Food " quoted, 33, 40 

43-46 
Gill,use of measure, 104 
Ginger, 88 
Gliadin, 6 
Glucose, 88 
Gluten, 6 

Glycogen, 57, 58, 93 
Goodfellow quoted, 76 
Goose, 60 

Gooseberries, 87, 90 
Graham, Sylvester, 32 

Flour, 32, 73, 74 
Grape Nuts, 78 
Grai^es, 87 
Greengages, 87 
Greens, 56, 83 
Halibut, 65 
Haddock, 55, 65 
Ham, 54, 97 
Haricot Beans, 86, 131 
Hazel Nuts, 90 
Heart as Food, 57, 58 
Heat, Measurement of, 13, 14 
Herbs, 23 

Hill, L., and Flack, 20 note 
Herring, 55, 65 
Hindhede, M., quoted, 33, 37 
Hipi, 64 
Horseradish, 23 
Hominy, 78, 79 
Honey, 88 
Hot Pot, 100, 105 
Hotch Potch, 105 
Hutchison, Dr. R., quoted, 37, 62, 64 

65, 67, 71, 72, 75, 77, 78, 83 84 

86, 91, 113 



Iron in Food, 52 

Jam, 56, 88-90 

Jelly, 63 

Katabolism, 26 

Kidney as Food, 57, 58 

Kitchener, Dr., 106, 107 

Konig, J,, Tables by, 49, 59 

Lamb, 58 

Lard, 55 

Leeks, 83 

Legumes, 93 ; see also Pulses 

Legmnin, 6 ' 

Lemco, 64 

Lemons, 23, 87, 90 

Lentils, 52, 56, 85, 86 

Lettuce, 84 

Liver as Food, 57, 58 

Lobster, 53 

Lusk, Prof., quoted, 6, 19, 21, 28, 36. 

51, 68, 74, 79 
Macaroni, 56, 78, 93, 131, 133 
Mackerel, 65 
Maize, 52, 71, 72, 75 
Margarine, 55, 69 
Marmalade, 88, 89 
Mannite, 64 
Meals, Analysis of, 112 
Meat, 54, 57-59 

Potted, 55 
Medlar, 87 
Melon, 87 

Melville, Colonel, quoted, 118 
Metabolism, 25 
Milk, 16, 37, 55, 67, 68, 116 

Condensed, 55, 68, 69 

Curd of, 6, 21 

Skim, 21, 55, 68, 92 
3Iillet, 71 

Mineral Salts, 17, 51-53 
Mulberries, 87 
Mulder, quoted, 15 
Mullet, 65 

Munich, Diet Studies in, 31, 32 
Mushrooms, 84 
Mustard, 23 
Mutton. 52, 54, 58 

Extract of, 64 

Tinned, 55 
Myosin, 6 
Nectarines, 87 
Newsholme, G., quoted, 114 
Nitrogen, Determination of, 30 
Nutritive Ratio, 36-38, 129 
Nuts, 56, 90, 91 
Oatmeal, 52, 72, 79, 115 

Water, 92 
Oats, 71, 72, 93 
Oils, Essential, 23 
Old People, Diet Requirements, 44, 

46, 53 
Olive Oil, 3 
Olives, 87 
Onions, 56, 80 
Oranges, 87 
0X0, 64 



136 



INDEX 



Parsnips, 80 

pates d'ltalie, 78 

Paton. Dr. D. N., quoted, 28, 31, 39, 

49,50 . 
Peaches, 87 
Pears, 87, 88 
Pea Nut, 90 

Soup, 61, 62 
Peas. 6, 52, 56, 85, 86 
Pectin, 90 
Pepper, 23 

Percentages, Note on use of, 10 
Petty, Miss F., 118 
Pheasant, 60 
Phosphorus, 51, 52 
Pigeon, 60 
Pineapple Jam, 89 
Pineapples, 87, 88 
Pine Kernels, 90 
Plasmon, 6 
Plover's Eggs, 66 
Plums, 87 
Plum Jam, 89 
Polony, 58 
Pomegranates, 87 
Pork. 52, 54, 58 
Porridge, 79, 115 
Potatoes, 52, 56, 61, 80-82, 93, 116 
Potato Soup, 61, 98 
Poultry, 55, 60 
Prison Diets, 35 
Protein, 6, 15, 16, 21, 22, 87, 92, 93, 129 

Requirements, 29-34 
Protose, 6 
Prunes, 87, 103 
Pudding Lady, The, 118 
Pudding, Sponge, 101, 126, 129 
Puddings, Various, 101-103, 106, 107, 

109 
Pulses, 56, 85, 86 
Rabbit, 55 
Radishes, 80 
Raisins, 87 
Raspberries, 87 
Rhubarb, 86, 87 

Rice, 52, 56, 71,77, 78, 93, 131, 133 
Rice ani Beri-Beri, 19, 20 
Rizine, 78 
Rowntree. Mr. B. S., quoted 28, 31, 

38, 39, 62, 79, 92 
Rubner, quoted, 44, 49, 129 
Rye, 71, 72, 75, 93 
Saccharoses, 4 
Sago, 56, 78 

Pudding, 102 
Salads, 56, 84 
Salmon, 55, 65 
Salsifv, 80 
Salt, "53 

Sardines, 55, 65 
Sausages. 54, 58 
Scarlet Runners, 86 



Seakale, 83 
Semolina, 56, 78, 79 

Cheese, 104 
Shrimps, 55 
Smelt, 65 

Soldiers' Rations, 28, 32, 50, 117 
Soups, 60-62, 97, 98 
Soup Tablets, 62 
Spinach, 52, 8:3 

Spoonfuls, Measurement by, 132 
Starling, Prof. E., quoted, 43 
Steak, Stewed, 99 

Steam engine compared with Body, 12 
Stock, Analysis of, 61 
Strawberries, 52, 87, 89 
Suet, 55 

Suet Pudding, 101, 109 
Sugar, 4, 21, 55, 88, 93, 116 

Invert, 89 
Svrup, 56 

Tea, 24, 56 note, 92 
Tomatoes, 56, 84 
Tomato Soup, 97, 98 
Tapioca, 56, 78, 90 

Tibbies, Dr. W., quoted, 61, 83, 86, 90 
Titnes, Budget from the, 121 seq. 
Toad in the Hole, 99 
Tongue, 55, 57, 58 
Trout, 65 
Turbot, 65 
Turkev, 66 
Turkey's Eggs, 66 
Turnips, 52, 56, 80, 82, 90 
Turnip Tops, 83 
Universitv College, London, 33 
Valentine s Meat Juice, 64 
Veal, 54, 5.7, 59 
Vegetarian Dishes, 104, 105 
Vegetable Marrow, 83 
Vegetables, Tables, 80-86 

Digestibility of, 93 
Vermicelli, 78, 79 

Pudding, 106 
Vitamines, 18-21 

Voit, H.,quoted, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 47, 48 
Walnuts, 90, 91 
Water, Need for, 17, 51 
Watercress, 84 
Water Melon, 87 
Watson .Chalmers, quoted, 68, 92, 93, 

113 
Wheat, 52, 71, 72, 73, 93 
Whortleberries, 87 
Wiley, H. W., quoted, 89 
Williams, Miss K., 78, 81, 86 
Women, Their Needs in Food, 41 seq., 

50, 53 
Wood, T. B., and Hopkins, F. G., 38 
Yeo, Dr. Burney, 79 
York, Investigations in, see Rowntree, 

Mr. B. S. 
Zuntz,, quoted, 44 



Printed in England 
by Butler & Tanner, Selwood Printing Works, Frome. Somerset. 



k 






ft 

a 






oi 

Oi 






f 



aMK^ ' r 






■^ 
^ 



■f-- 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



