SmffiridesBook 




Class 
Book 
GopyrightN — 

COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 









>& 



NO 






TO THAT INCOMPARABLE 
CREATURE 

The American Lady 



Now Reached the Dignity of 
Wife, Just Starting on Life's 
Journey in Wedded Bliss, in 
Complete Harmony With 
Milton's Words This Little 
Book is Dedicated to You. 
' 'For Nothing Lovelier Can 
Be Found in Woman Than 
To Study Household Good. ' ' 



Copyrighted 1916 

By 

D. Wells Williams Publishing Co. 



"My Bride's Book," issued pri- 
marily to be presented with mar- 
riage licenses to the Newlyweds, 
may be purchased by Mrs. Newly- 
wed's friends from the publishers 
at the cost price of $1.00. 



For advertising space and rates 
in "My Bride's Book, merchants 
are invited to address the 
D. Wells Williams Publishing 
Company 
Kansas City, Missouri 



NW I j 191 



TRANSFER^::) P30M 

COPYRIGHT OFFICE 




"Good morning, Mrs. Newlywed. May I come in? No, I 
am not a book agent; this little book I have in my hand is a 
little gift prepared especially for you. 

"With the Man-o'-My-Heart I was spinning through God's 
beautiful out-of-doors one day not long ago, when a little bird 
overtook us, lighting first on the twig of a tree, then on a fence 
post — back and forth on the wing, and always singing — singing. 

"Suddenly I caught the interpretation of his song! He was 
telling me of your happiness in possession and your happiness-to- 
be. Oh, but his little throat swelled with song in his joy of such 
news bearing! 

"I hastened back to my attic den in Friendship Lane, and 
with big joy in my heart, began ransacking my memory box 
for cookery helps, helpful hints gathered from my Queen Mother's 
day, from personal experience, from domestic science school days, 
from club classes, wise chefs, and from friends — I have compiled 
them just for — you. 

"There may not be many helps — and no cookery depart- 
ment is exhaustive; perhaps there has been too little time since 
I caught the bird's song, yet I hope these beginnings will find 
happy lodgement in your home nest. If they do, you will tell 
your friends. 

"That you and The Big Man might start life's journey 
together with the best help obtainable I went personally to tell 
our most representative business men and women about you. 
A goodly number — all I had room for in my car — signified their 
pleasure in coming with me to wish you all joy in your new 
happiness, and to congratulate The Big Man upon the wise 
choice he has made. 

"It gives me real pleasure to introduce to you each one of 
these highly reputable business firms, knowing they will be of 
incomparable assistance to you in adjusting the homely as well 
as the luxurious phases of your home-making life. That you 
will place them, one and all, upon your list of friends and call 
upon them often I feel assured. Introduce them to your friends — 
they will appreciate the breadth of acquaintance. 



"I was going past Susie Stew's house this morning, when I 
saw her front porch piled with her best furniture, and heard 
sounds of beating, and there she was thrashing the life out of 
sofa pillows and dusting chairs. 'House cleaning so soon?' I 
asked. 'Oh, clear me, no! The Embroidery Club is going to 
meet at my house tomorrow afternoon, and uncle Jim and 
aunt Maria are coming to visit us on Thursday and I have got 
to get ready for them. 1 do dread it, for I am almost dead now, 
and Bridget is as cross as a bear already, and I don't know what 
she will do when they get here. I'm sure she doesn't expect to 
prepare as much as a sandwich for my club tomorrow after- 
noon. Really, I expect she will leave. Think of the running 
around we will have to do to entertain uncle Jim and aunt 
Maria! I am sure to be a perfect wreck when they go home. 
What a trial company is!' She sat down on the porch and en- 
joyed her misery. 

"Some one has dignified hospitality as the 'entertainment 
of guests with kind and liberal generosity,' and that must mean 
the kindly generosity of spirit which made the tradition of the 
old-fashioned hospitality which we read of but so seldom see 
now. We make such a burden of housekeeping in general and 
company in particular these days, I wonder if it is not this spirit 
that is communicated to our helpers, making the tolerant maid 
a rare one? A friend once told me of a clever woman who said 
that circumstances had compelled her to live by the paraphrased 
text. 'No woman can serve visitor and maid. For either she 
will have the one and lose the other, or else she will dispense 
with the one and keep the other. Ye cannot have guests and 
servants.' And Susie Stew's method is the one that produces 
such results. 

"If we could only remember the beauty of elegant simplicity 
in living it would not be necessary for those in our service and 
the loved ones of our household to reflect our worries. 

"Begin by making your guests feel the hominess of your 
nesting place. Let that sweet 'comfy' air which betokens order 
without nerve-racking effort, permeate the home throughout, 
so that when a guest is expected all you ever need to do is to 
see that the guest room is comfortably furnished with linen, a 
bit of stationery and a few good books. The idea of being obliged 
to plan for every moment of a guest's time is a great mistake. 

"Suppose your guest wants to get off by herself for a quiet 
hour with a volume, or suppose — it does sometimes happen — she 
is wakeful. What books would you leave in the guest room for 
her delectation? Here are the titles found on one guest room 
book shelf we know of: 



' 'Love Letters of a Musician.' 'Helen's Babies.' 'The 
Lady of the Decoration.' 'Pollyanna.' 'Friendship Village.' 
'Tanglewood Tales.' 'Conduct of Life.' 'Christmas Carol.' 
'Land of Heart's Desire.' 'Anne of Green Gables.' You might 
add to these The Ladies' Home Journal, McClure's Magazine or 
The Outlook. 

"Can you conceive of a mood which something here wouldn't 
fit into? 

"Unless The Big Man have large means, you will make a 
great mistake to live in a pretentious way. You will be wise 
and far happier if you will confine your entertainments to small 
luncheons and dinners for four, and not more than six guests. 
These you will be able to serve and enjoy, even without the 
services of a maid. 

"There is nothing more delightful than having guests in to 
breakfast. If you are the fortunate possessor of an electric 
percolater and broiler, or the possessor of one or two chafing 
dishes, the entire meal may be prepared at the table in the presence 
of your guests. And always and ever the heart of The Big Man 
will swell with pride at your ability to accomplish results with 
such elegant simplicity. 

"I fear that we, as Americans, do not know the art of dining — 
and it is an art — as much an art almost as good cooking or menu- 
making. 

"The Chef of one of our splendid hotels says, 'Just as a 
symphony concert demands good listening, so does a well pre- 
pared dish require to be eaten with appreciation; else it is wasted.' 
That 'Americans do not know how to eat because they haven't 
taken time to learn.' Everybody seems always to be in a hurry. 
It is a national habit, this hurry, and it leads to a good deal of 
slurring over in matters that ought to receive careful attention. 
And so, we have to provide quick lunch counters, where a glass 
of milk is swallowed, a sandwich bolted and we finish our pie as 
we rush out the door. Is it really true? Certainly, my dear; 
I haven't had eighteen years honeymoon trip across the country 
with the Man-o'-My-Heart without knowing something about how 
we bolt our food, and the little time we take to rightly enjoy the 
aroma and delicious flavor of a delicate dish properly prepared. 

"Many a man who has mastered the menu of 'a la's' would 
gladly exchange his cafe dinner for just one of the old-fashioned 
dishes he used to have at home. What were they? Oh, yes — 
noodles and dumplings with chicken and a wonderful stew in 
which the flavor of meat and vegetables were blended in a most 
delectable gravy. And this is chicken en casserole! Let me 
tell you how to prepare it; dress chicken and disjoint as for stew- 
ing. Have ready half a cup each of sliced carrots and turnips 
(or they may be cut in balls with a French cutter), one cup of 



potato balls, a cup of minced onion, half cup chopped celery and 
a bit of parsley. Put chicken and all vegetables in casserole, 
add bay leaf, bit of mace, salt and pepper and cover well with 
stock or boiling water. Cover closely and place in slow oven. 
It requires four to five hours to cook properly; but when it is 
cooked properly it is a masterpiece of art — the art of combined 
flavors. From start to finish, it has been subjected to certain 
prescribed temperatures, and never once has the cover left the 
dish. Chicken, vegetables, seasoning — all are put in raw, the 
cover is put on and the cooking begins. The onion gradually 
becomes, not an onion, but a flavor. Each vegetable contributes 
its character to the whole. The taste of the chicken is absorbed 
by the vegetable, and the taste of the vegetable is absorbed by 
the chicken — none escapes. At the table, when the cover is 
lifted, the aroma that greets the nostrils — well it cannot be 
matched by a broiled beef steak. But that of which I have told 
you is chicken en casserole as it should be. 

"Now I must hurry home and prepare this delicious dish 
for the Man-o'-My-Heart's dinner. 

"Susie Stew told me this morning that she was suffering from 
nerves. Too much entertaining and rush as was very evident. 
I suggested lavender tea to her. Not the least of the virtues of 
that fine herb, lavender, is its tonic effect upon excited, tremb- 
ling nerves and irritability. Two or three teaspoonfuls of the 
tincture in a cup full of hot water with a slice or two of lemon 
makes a restorative drink that acts like magic and puts a woman 
in possession of her best self, ready to take up life with renewed 
vigor. 

"In hanging pictures in your new home you will try to give 
them the advantage of a good light — be as courteous to the new 
friends I have brought to you today, and — to 

THE AUTHOR." 





SOME BEGINNINGS AND BEVERAGES 

FOR THE warm months a chilled appetizer is always desirable, 
and this may consist of an iced ginger ale, iced grape juice 
or iced bouillon. 
Iced ginger ale or grape juice may be served in stem glasses 
a little larger than a wine glass, set in a pretty plate on which 
has been laid a dainty paper doily. 



Ginger Ale 



Fill a glass two-thirds full of ginger ale, to which add two 
tablespoonfuls of shaved ice. 

Grape Drink 

To three pounds of fresh Concord grapes add four whole 
cloves, the juice of four oranges with a little of the grated rind, 
a leaf or two of lemon verbena, and a very scant cupful of sugar. 
Let all these ingredients come to a boil, cool and stand in the ice 
chest several hours. When ready to serve press through a sieve, 
stir in a quart of unfermented grape juice and stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs, and a pint of seltzer; turn into a pitcher which 
is filled to nearly half its depth with pounded ice. Serve in cham- 
pagne glasses. 

Mulled Grape Juice 

To one pint of grape juice add two or three pieces of stick 
cinnamon, a clove, juice of half a lemon and heat in a double 
boiler half an hour, strain and chill. Serve in champagne glasses, 
with shaved ice, as a first course for luncheon or dinner. 

Fruit Cup, Southern Style 

Make a strong lemonade, not very sweet, and add fruit juice 
as in season, orange, strawberry, grape or raspberry, also wine 
if desired. Chill as cold as possible without ice in liquid itself. 
Pour into high narrow tumblers, place a whole slice of canned 
pineapple on top, and a sprig of mint and two straws in the 
center of slice (where hollowed out). Add a large cherry and 
serve at once. 



BEVERAGES— Continued 

Oyster Cocktail 

To one pint of tomato catsup add the juice of two large 
lemons, a third of a cup of cider vinegar, one-fourth teaspoon of 
salt, a little paprika and a few drops of Tabasco sauce. Mix 
thoroughly and chill before serving, using two or three table- 
spoonfuls to each glass. Select small oysters and look over care- 
fully to remove bits of shell. Keep in a cold place until ready to 
serve and do not mix sauce with oysters until serving time. 

Crab Meat Appetizer 

Break cooked crab meat into flakes and season well with 
anchovy and Worcestshire sauce. Chill the mixture before serving 
in either sherbet or champagne glasses (the latter are more at- 
tractive). Line the glass with delicate lettuce leaves, place crab 
mixture in center, garnish each with a few fresh shrimps curled 
over the edge of the glass and a stuffed olive on top. Use this as 
a first course for luncheon or dinner. 

Filled Celery 

Select choice stalks of celery of even size and fill with soft 
cheese. Roquefort cheese may be used by making it smooth with 
soft butter and adding a seasoning of paprika and brandy. The 
jar cheeses, such as Club House and McLarens can be used without 
preparation. 

Aspic with Caviar 

Clear one quart of rich stock (chicken, veal and ham combined 
give a fine flavor) with white of egg, then add one-half a package 
of softened gelatine, season well with lemon juice, salt and pep- 
per, strain through a wet napkin and chill in a shallow mould. 
Sherry may be added if liked. Turn out into chop plate and sur- 
round with halves of hard cooked eggs from which the yolks 
have been removed and space filled with caviar, sprinkle with 
lemon juice. Garnish with water cress and serve very cold with 
French dressing as a salad, or without dressing for a first course 
at dinner. 

Sardine Canipes 

Cut bread into strips, free from crust and toast lightly or 
saute in butter. Place a sardine on each, sprinkle finely chopped 
white of egg along one side of fish, and yolk put through vegetable 
sieve on opposite side. Set an olive at one end of strip and a 
sprig of parsley at the other; season all with paprika and sprinkle 
lemon juice over sardine. Serve at beginning of dinner as an 
appetizer. 

Cheese Fingers 

Cut bread into long strips and spread lightly with butter 
creamed with pimientos rubbed through a coarse strainer and sea- 
son liberally. Cover thickly with grated cheese, sprinkle with 
paprike and heat under a gas flame until cheese melts. Serve 
at once. 




Soup Making 

Soup is like the sun. It must be looked forward to three 
hundred and sixty-five days in the year. The art of soup making 
is puzzling in its scope, and the young housekeeper will do well 
to confine her efforts to the less complex method of making a 
good "stock," which may be strained, put in jars and placed in 
the ice chest to be used as a base for any number of delicious soups. 

Gelatine is a substance found in bones, tendons and gristly 
part of meat. It is dissolved by long, slow cooking, and it gives 
flavor to soups and stews. Some bone is always used in their 
preparation. 

Clear soups, such as bouillon, rice or spaghetti, are the best 
dinner soups. A puree, bisque or a soup containing milk, thicken- 
ing of butter and flour, barley and egg yolks make nutritious as 
well as delicious luncheon soups. 

Procure soup bone, proportion one pound of meat to three- 
fourths of a pound of bone. Wipe with a damp cloth, put in 
cold water (in proportion of one quart of water to one pound of 
meat and bone), add a bay leaf, three whole cloves, six pepper 
corns, a bit of mace and parsley, one small red pepper without 
seeds, a tablespoon of salt and a cupful of tomato pulp. Cover 
closely and simmer for three hours, then add an onion and carrot 
cut fine and cook two hours longer. Be careful that soup does 
not boil. When done add a teaspoon of Kitchen Bouquet and a 
very little cayenne pepper. Strain through a sieve and let it 
stand until the sediment settles, pouring off the clear part only, 
or clarify with white of egg if preferred. This may be used as a 
foundation for rice, macaroni, tapioca, noodle or okra soups. 

Easy Vegetable Soup 

Two teaspoonfuls extract of beef, two quarts of water, one- 
half cup carrots, one cup potatoes, one-half of a small onion 
chopped fine, one-half cup celery, three tablespoonfuls tomatoes, 
one-half tablespoonfui parsley, two tablespoonfuls butter, one- 
half bay leaf, one-half cup of rice, salt and pepper. Chop vege- 
tables and add with rice to water with salt: cook until tender 
(about thirty minutes), then add extract of beef, bay leaf, parsley 
and seasoning. Tomato Bouillon may be used instead of tomatoes. 
One or two tablespoonfuls tomato bouillon to each quart of soup. 



SOUPS— Continued 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Have the butcher split and clean a calf's head, then place 
it in a large kettle of cold water with two pounds of beef shank 
(cut in pieces), two sliced onions, half a cupful each of celery and 
carrot, one quart of tomatoes, a bay leaf, several cloves, a tea- 
spoonful of black pepper and a tablespoonful of thyme. Allow 
this to simmer, closely covered until calf's head is done, when it 
should be removed and the cooking continued another hour. 
Blend one-half cup of butter with one-half cup of flour in a sauce 
pan, add to the stock (which has been strained and salted) and 
simmer fifteen minutes, then add the meat from the calf's head 
cut in pieces, also a glass of sherry and a teaspoonful of Kitchen 
Bouquet. Add a slice of lemon and two slices of hard cooked 
egg to each service. 

Split Pea Soup 

Take one quart of lamb stock twenty-four hours after cooking 
for the foundation for this soup; put in a large kettle, and in a 
small vessel put two onions cut fine, one bay leaf, two stocks ol 
celery, one can of peas; add salt, and when cooked tender press 
through a vegetable press; add to lamb stock. Return to range, 
add two tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, a little paprika, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Then blend together one tablespoonful 
of butter and two of flour until smooth; add one cup of cream 
and one of milk, the pea puree, bring to a boil, and serve with 
toasted croutons. 

Tomato Cream Soup 

Cook one can of tomatoes for twenty minutes with a pint 
of water, a bay leaf, a bit of mace and parsley, half a dozen cloves 
and pepper corns, two teaspoonfuls of salt and a small sliced 
onion. Heat three cups of milk, thicken with four teaspoon- 
fuls of flour and allow ten minutes for cooking. Add one-hall 
teaspoonful of soda to the hot tomato, strain through a coarse 
sieve and add to the thickened milk with three tablespoonluls 
of butter just at serving time. A tablespoon of whipped cream 
sprinkled with paprika and placed over each service of soup is 
pleasing to both the eye and palate. 









HOW TO SELECT AND PREPARE 
FISH AND OYSTERS 

FISH BEING cheap, forms a valuable substitute for meat, 
though it contains less nourishment. 

Fish should never be eaten except when perfectly fresh 
as otherwise it is harmful and sometimes positively poisonous. 
On account of its strong odor it should never be put in the ice 
box with other food, unless closely covered. Rich fish, like sal- 
mon, should be boiled, though baking and broiling are the best 
methods of cooking fish. In selecting fish examine the flesh and 
see that it is firm, and that the eyes are bright and full and the 
gills red. 

Broiled Finnan Haddie 

Select a thick fish, put flesh side down in a pan of cold water, 
let come to a boil and simmer fifteen or twenty minutes; wipe 
dry, brush with melted butter or olive oil, and broil on both sides. 
Serve with Maitre d'hotel butter made as follows: Beat to a cream 
one-fourth cup of butter, add half a teaspoonful of salt, dash of 
paprika, one-half a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, then 
gradually beat in one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Baked Salmon Trout 

Have the fish opened at the gills and the intestines drawn 
out through the opening, make a stuffing of one-half a pint of 
bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, dash of pepper; mix the ingredients, fill into the fish, 
baste with a liberal quantity of butter previously blended with 
flour, put in oven and bake slowly about an hour, basting fre- 
quently with butter and water. When done have ready in a sauce 
pan one cup of cream (diluted with a few teaspoonfuls of hot 
water to prevent clotting), in which has been stirred two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter blended with one scant tablespoonful of 
flour, and a little chopped parsley. 

Heat sauce in a double boiler, and add gravy from the drip- 
ping pan, boil up once to thicken. Lay the fish on a heated platter, 
garnish with parsley and lemon slices. (Tiny potato balls ac- 
company the dish nicely.) 



FISH AND OYSTERS— Continued 



Broiled Fish 



Split open a firm white fish and remove the bone. Spread 
with soft butter, dredge lightly with flour and season with salt 
and pepper. Place fish on a buttered pan or fish sheet and cook 
under the gas flame, the time depending on the thickness of the 
fish. Serve on a hot platter and garnish with slices of lemon 
and parsley. 

Chartreuse of Salmon 

Parboil one cup of rice, then add milk and cook till done. 
Butter a mold and line it with rice. Fill the cavity with one 
pound of salmon, flaked, and seasoned with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice; cover this with rice and steam one-half hour, then turn 
out on a hot dish and pour over it the following sauce; blend two 
tablespoonfuls of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour, heat one 
pint of milk, add blended flour and butter, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, dash of cayenne and two hard boiled eggs chopped fine. 
Let it boil once and serve very hot. 

Fish Timbales 

Cook together until soft one-half cup of stale bread and one 
scant cup of cream, add one tablespoon of soft butter, one tea- 
spoon of salt, speck of pepper and two beaten yolks of eggs. Cool 
slightly and mix thoroughly with one and one-half minced cooked 
fish. Add stiff whites gently, put in buttered mold and steam 
one-half hour. Finely minced chicken, ham, calves liver and 
other meats may be used in the same way. 

Sardines in Aspic 

Cook together for half an hour, a sliced onion, carrot and 
stalk of celery, a bit of parsley, a bay leaf, mace, several whole 
pepper corns and a pint of water. Add a teaspoonful of beef 
extract and one of salt and a third of a box of gelatine, which 
has been softened in half a cup of cold water. Color this a deli- 
cate green with Burnett's color paste and strain all through a 
cloth. Pour a very thin layer into a plain mold and when it is 
firm, decorate with slices of white of egg and cooked beet, cut in 
any fancy shape, cover with liquid jelly and when this is hardened, 
add a layer of drained sardines. Continue with jelly and fish 
until mold is filled and chill well before serving. Garnish with 
slices of lemon covered with minced parsley, and serve with strips 
of graham bread covered with whipped cream and Parmesan 
cheese. 



FISH AND OYSTERS— Continued 



Fish Creams 



For one cup of cooked fish (any firm variety will do, and 
lobster, shrimp or crab meat may be used) flaked fine, make a 
custard of one scant cup of milk, two egg yolks and a little salt 
in a double boiler. When smooth and thickened, pour this over 
two tablespoonfuls of gelatine softened in two tablespoonfuls 
of water. Stir frequently until cool and stir into the prepared 
fish and add last a cupful of whipped cream with more seasonings 
as desired. Pour into individual molds or one large form lined 
with rings of green peppers and set aside to chill. If small molds 
are used turn fish out onto uniform slices of tomato, and serve 
mayonnaise or Tartar sauce separately, seasoning the former 
with tomato catsup. 



Planked Fish 



A plank from any hard wood in which there is no resin may 
be used for planked fish. 

Select white fish or shad, although any white fleshed fish is 
good planked. Secure a plank which will fit the underneath por- 
tion of your gas stove; in a gas stove fish is planked in the broiling 
oven. The plank should be at least one inch thick, a little wider 
than the fish and as long as the oven. Rub board thoroughly 
with salt and put it under the gas to heat. Split open a firm fish 
and remove the back-bone, as soon as the plank is heated, put on 
the fish skin side down, spread with soft butter, dredge with flour, 
dust with salt and pepper and put under the gas just as far from 
the flame as possible; keep the lights turned up rather high 
until the fish has taken on a good color; then turn them down 
and cook slowly twenty minutes. Have ready pared four large 
potatoes; put them at once to boil, when done, mash; add one- 
half cup equal parts hot milk and cream, a teaspoon of salt and 
whip very light. Put them into a pastry bag, at the end of which 
you have a star tube. As soon as the fish has browned, remove 
it from the oven, and press the potatoes through the tube, making 
a circle of roses the entire round of the plank; put back in the 
oven and bake about ten minutes longer; garnish with lemon 
and parsley and serve. 

Your first accomplishment of this delicious dish, little home- 
maker, will please your "gude mon" beyond expression. 

Oysters are more largely used than any of the shell fish, 
and though they give a pleasing variety they are an expensive 
food. In buying, select those that are plump and free from green 
spots. Always wash oysters in cold water, allowing one-half 
cup of water to a quart of oysters, lifting each oyster separately 
by its round tough muscle, and rinsing it in the liquor. Strain 
the liquor through a fine strainer and save to use in cooking 
oysters. 



FISH AND OYSTERS— Continued 



Oyster Stew 



Clean one quart of oysters according to directions. Put the 
strained oyster liquor into a stew pan, heat to the boiling point, 
skim off any skum that may rise, add oysters and cook until 
they are plump and the edges curl. Add one quart of hot milk, 
which has been seasoned with one-half tablespoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper and three tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Be watchful that you do not overcook oysters, as they will be tough 
and unpalatable if you do. 

Broiled Oysters 

Select large choice oysters, and dip each one in seasoned 
buttered bread crumbs. Broil quickly on each side under gas 
flame and serve with celery sauce or horse radish sauce. 

Escalloped Oysters 

Wash and drain one quart of oysters, strain the liquor (there 
should be about one cup). Season a pint of cracker crumbs 
with salt and pepper and half a cup of melted butter. Place 
alternate layers of crumbs and oysters in greased baking dish. 
Two layers of oysters and three of crumbs are sufficient; add one- 
half cup of milk, the oyster liquor and pour over the whole. Bake 
in rather a hot oven twenty-five to thirty minutes, till crumbs are 
nicely browned. 



^■wSfe 




APPROPRIATE SAUCES TO SERVE 
WITH FISH AND OYSTERS 



Sauce Berlin 



Cook two cupfuls of tomato with a cupful of boiling water, a 
slice each of onion, carrot and celery, sprig of parsley, bay leaf, 
three cloves, salt and pepper, for twenty-five minutes. Blend 
three tablespoonfuls of flour with three of butter, melt and add the 
strained tomato stock and one-fourth teaspoon of soda. Add a 
scant cup of thin cream to the sauce, let it boil up once. Serve 
with baked fish. 

Horse Radish Sauce 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter, add gradually four table- 
spoonfuls finely grated horseradish with a little salt, and half 
a teaspoon of lemon juice, one-fourth teaspoon of pepper, and let 
it boil up once. A beaten egg may be added before the sauce is 
cooked if desired. 

Sauce Tartare 

This is made by adding two chopped olives, one gherkin, 
one tablespoon of capers and one tablespoon of parsley chopped 
fine, to one-half pint of mayonnaise. Bernaise sauce may be 
used as a foundation. 

Fish Sauce Piquant 

One tablespoonful of chopped parsley, rubbed to a paste 
with the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, add one teaspoon of 
yellow mustard, one tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce and two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, rubbing constantly, then add juice of 
one lemon, dash of paprika, one tablespoon of onion juice; add 
gradually, one-half pint of fish stock in which the fish was cooked. 
Add salt and a very little white pepper. Cook until thick as 
Custard. A tablespoon of flour is sometimes needed to thicken 
it sufficiently. It should be creamy and of a consistency like 
custard. Pour over the whole fish on platter; garnish with wedges 
of lemon dipped in chopped parsley. 



SAUCES — Continued 



Anchovy Sauce 



Beat three tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar with two bay 
leaves and six pepper corns for five minutes, then add three yolks 
of eggs (placing sauce pan over boiling water) and three table- 
spoonfuls of anchovy paste, season with paprika and mix with 
a cup of whipped cream or plain cream if a thinner sauce is de- 
sired. You will find this a nice sauce for baked or bolied fish. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Cream one-third cup of butter, add one tablespoon of flour 
and one-half teaspoonful of salt, dash of cayenne pepper and one 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. Add one-half 
cup boiling water and thicken over hot water. Add two beaten 
egg yolks stirring all the time. The sauce should be like boiled 
custard. If cooked too much it will curdle. This is one of the 
most used of fish sauces. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Chop or grate two cucumbers and drain well. Season with 
salt and pepper, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice or tarragon 
vinegar, and onion juice if liked; mix lightly with a cup of whipped 
cream. Heap this in the scooped out halves of the cucumber 
(boat shaped), add a few sprigs of parsley, and serve at once. 




MEAT VALUES 

FEW YOUNG housekeepers know the various cuts of meats 
and their respective values. Considering the high cost of 
meat, you will do well to early learn the value of the cheaper 
cuts. Meat is the most nutritious of all foods. As the juice 
contains most of the strength-giving part of the meat, it should 
always be cooked in such a way as to retain the juice. Cuts of 
meat having muscles that were much used when the animal was 
alive contain more juice than those from parts where the muscles 
were used less. They are more strength-giving because of this 
fact, though less expensive. Only comparatively tender meat 
should be broiled or roasted. In selecting meat see that it is 
firm and fine grained; if beef, see that it is well mottled with fat 
and bright red in color. The lean of good veal is light pink, and 
the fat white and clear. Mutton and lamb rank next to beef in 
their strength-giving qualities. Veal and pork are less nutritious 
and harder to digest, and should be used less frequently. Fresh 
pork should never be eaten in warm weather. Bacon, next to 
butter, is the most easily digested form of fat. 

Remove the wrapper from meat as soon as it comes from 
market; the paper absorbs the juice. Never put meat on ice 
without a plate under it. For boiling, plunge meat into boiling 
water and let it boil about ten minutes; this is done to quickly 
cook the outside, so that the juice will not escape; then set over 
a slow fire and keep the water just below the boiling point. Meat 
cooked in this way will be tender and juicy. A properly broiled 
piece of meat is browned nicely on the outside and the whole 
inside is red and juicy. Pan broiling is a good method of cooking 
steaks and chops when a bed of coals or a gas oven is not available. 
The frying pan must be piping hot when the meat is put in, and 
must be frequently turned, as when broiling over coals, or under 
a gas flame. In cooking roasts the heat of your oven must be 
governed by the size of the roast. The smaller the roast the greater 
the heat may be first ten minutes of roasting, after which the heat 
may be reduced. The time for cooking meats depends so much 
upon the size, cut, and amount of surface exposed, and quality 
of meat that it is impossible to give exact rules in this brief talk 
of ours. The following table will, however, be a partial guide. 
Veal and pork need longer cooking than beef, and for roasting, 
do not require as hot an oven. 



MEAT VALUES— Continued 



Time Table for Broiling 



Neck or shoulder of mutton, per pound, fifteen to eighteen 
minutes. 

Fresh tongue, per pound, twenty-five minutes. 
Corned tongue, per pound, thirty minutes. 
Ham, per pound, thirty minutes. 



Roasting 



Beef rib, rare; per pound, seven to ten minutes. 

Beef rib, well done; per pound, twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Beef rib, rolled; rare; per pound, twelve minutes. 

Beef rib, rolled, well done; per pound, fifteen minutes. 

Shoulder of mutton, per pound, eighteen to twenty minutes. 

Leg of lamb, per pound, sixteen minutes. 

Leg or breast of veal, per pound, thirty minutes. 

Pork, sparerib or loin, per pound, twenty-five minutes. 



Broiling 



Beef steak, one-half to two inches thick, fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 

Chops, seven to nine minutes. 

Spring chicken, twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

Quail, fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Roast of Beef 

Select choice rib roast and remove small end of bone, leaving 
a standing roast. Score the edges of meat with a sharp knife 
and place on rack in open pan. Sear the meat well under gas 
flame, reduce heat when meat is crisp, season well and finish 
cooking in upper oven, basting meat often with fat in the pan. 
Turn flame out twenty minutes before roast is done. Make a 
gravy with four tablespoonfuls each of meat fat and flour and a 
pint of stock or boiling water. Season well, add a trifle of Mapleine 
or Kitchen Bouquet to color and flavor, and strain before serving. 
My author tells me meat cooked in this fashion is like the roast 
prepared over an open fire. Cretainly no such flavor or juiciness 
can be obtained by roasting in a wood or coal oven. 

Baked Ham a la Virginia 

Use a ten pound skinned ham. Cover with boiling water 
and let stand until cool enough to handle; then scrape thoroughly 
put on in cold water and let boil about three hours; then put ham 
in baking pan, lean side down; dredge the top well with sugar 
(brown sugar is best), a little mace, grated nutmeg and paprika; 
cover with grated bread crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven an 
hour to an hour and a half. 



MEAT VALUES— Continued 



Spring Lamb 



Procure a nice hind quarter and remove some of the fat that 
is around the kidneys; skewer the lower joint to the fillet. Heat 
gas oven for ten minutes before using, then place the meat under 
a flame and turn occasionally until each side is crisp. Season light- 
ly with salt and pepper and dredge with flour; reduce heat and 
baste every fifteen minutes with fat in the pan. Allow one and 
one-half hours for a five pound roast cooked medium. Serve 
mint sauce and green peas with this roast. For gravy place small 
end bone and trimmings from the meat in a shallow pan with a 
quart of water. Add salt, pepper, parsley, a bit of onion, and 
green pepper as convenient. Let this cook slowly an hour or more, 
then strain, blend with one-fourth cup each of flour and fat, strain 
and add Kitchen Boquet to season and color. 

Broiled Steak a la Delmotiico 

Select a sirloin one and one-half inches thick, trim the edges 
and remove bone. Prepare a marinade with a half-teaspoon of 
salt, a little chopped parsley, dash of cayenne pepper, a bruised 
bay leaf, two whole cloves, and two tablespoons each of olive oil 
and lemon juice. Place the steak in this marinade and turn 
occasionally, keeping it in over night if possible. Remove the 
herbs and broil under a hot flame. When seared on both sides 
reduce the heat and finish cooking more slowly, allowing about 
fifteen minutes for a steak one to two inches thick. The flame may 
be extinguished for the last few minutes of cooking, but should 
be lighted full about ten minutes before broiling is begun to insure 
an intense heat. 

A steak marinated in this way from six to twelve hours will 
be deliciously tender. 




Brown Mushroom Sauce 

Melt three tablespoons butter in frying pan, add one table- 
spoon minced onion and cook slowly ten minutes. Add one 
pint of mushrooms (if fresh mushrooms are used they should be 
peeled) cut in small pieces and cook ten minutes. Then add 
three tablespoons of flour and brown it lightly. Pour in one and 
one-half cups stock or water (liquor from canned mushrooms 
may be used), and whem smooth season well with salt and pepper. 



Creole Sauce 

Chop fine two tablespoons of onion and four tablespoons of 
green peppers and cook five minutes with two tablespoons of 
butter. Add one and one-half cups of canned tomatoes drained 
and six chopped olives; then add one cup of stock or water and 
bring to a boil. Add salt and pepper and serve with broiled 
fillet of beef. 



Cranberry Sauce 

Wash and pick over one quart of cranberries. Add one pint 
cold water and put over fire in a covered suace pan and let sim- 
mer, not boil, until each berry bursts open. Remove the cover, add 
one pound of sugar and boil hard twenty minutes. The 
berries should not be stirred. 



Pimiento Sauce for Chicken 

Make one pint of cream sauce with one-fourth cup each of 
butter and flour and two cups of rich milk; season well with salt, 
pepper and paprika and add one-third cup of pimiento rubbed 
through a strainer. A little lemon or onion juice may be used 
instead of pimientos and enough paprika used to give sauce a 
pink tinge. 



MEAT SAUCES— Continued 



Sauce Bernaise 



Put one tablespoon of butter in a small sauce pan with 
the yolks of two eggs and two tablespoons of vinegar or lemon 
juice. Set this in boiling water and stir until it thickens, add 
another tablespoon of butter, continue the stirring and add a 
third spoon. Season with salt and cayenne, add a teaspoon 
of minced parsley and tarragon vinegar. Onion juice may be 
added. 



Mint Sauce 



Chop fine the well washed leaves of a handful of mint, and 
pour over them a cupful of boiling water and add two tablespoons 
of sugar. Cover and let stand in a cool place an hour to fuse, 
then add one-fourth teaspoon of salt, a dash of paprika, and four 
tablespoons of vinegar. Mix thoroughly and serve with spring 
lamb. 



Cream Sauce 



Blend together two tablespoons of butter and two of flour 
until smooth; add one pint of milk, set pan containing mixture 
in a pan of boiling water and place over the fire and stir until the 
mixture is smooth and thickened. Remove from the fire, add one 
teaspoon of salt and a little white pepper. This sauce will be your 
"staple" in the making of all creamed meats, fish and poultry 
dishes, and green vegetables on toast and in pastry shells. 




GAME AND POULTRY 

POULTRY, which includes chicken, fowl, turkey, duck and 
goose, is a strength-giving and muscle-making food. It is 
less nutritious than the cheaper cuts of other meats, but more 
readily digested, particularly the white meat of chicken. Two 
years spent next door to a chicken fancier, who really knew his 
hobby, afforded me a very good knowledge of the fowl. In select- 
ing poultry examine flesh, skin, feet and legs. A desirable chicken 
will have soft feet, smooth skin and plump breast; the end of 
the breast bone being pliable. Pin feathers will indicate a young 
bird. A good turkey has smooth, dark legs, full soft breast and 
white plump flesh. When preparing poultry for cooking be care- 
ful to clean most thoroughly. When drawn, cleanse the bird by 
holding it under the cold water faucet and allowing the water 
to run through till perfectly clean; then wipe the inside with a 
clean cloth that there may be no possible danger of the stuffing 
when cooked having a disagreeable taste. Remove all clotted 
blood from the heart, cut off any part of the liver which has a green- 
ish color, remove the lining from the gizzard, thoroughly wash 
and boil all giblets in slightly salted water, until tender, using 
both giblets and stock in which they were cooked in making gravy 
to be served with the fowl. 



Roast Chicken or Turkey 

After the bird has been carefully dressed and rinsed inside 
with a teaspoon of soda dissolved in a little water, dry inside and 
out with a clean cloth; rub the inside with a little salt and fill 
cavity with the stuffing made of one and one-half cups of bread 
crumbs moistened with just enough luke warm water to soften; 
add teaspoon of salt, one-fourth teaspoon of white pepper, one 
teaspoon of sage (if you like it) and three tablespoons of melted 
butter. To this may be added either one pint of oysters chopped 
a little, or one pint of chestnuts blanched and cooked until tender. 
Press nuts through a vegetable press or mash with potato masher 
and add to stuffing. When onion or celery is liked instead of 
oysters or nuts, use two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, or one- 
half pint of chopped celery, and fill the cavity and sew up the 
bird with fine twine or coarse thread, skewer the legs and wings 
to the body, rub it over with a little butter, salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Place in pan with breast down, pour over one 
cup of hot water, and place in oven. Baste frequently while roasting. 



GAME AND POULTRY— Continued 

Broiled Young Chicken 

Prepare a small young chicken for broiling and spread lightly 
with soft butter; add salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Cook 
slowly under the gas flame for twenty minutes, basting and turn 
ing once; then increase the heat and brown well. Place on 
hot platter, spread with soft butter, dash of paprika and serve. 
Parsley and toast points make an attractive garnish for the dish. 
Serve piping hot with Pimiento Sauce. 

Roast Duck 

Secure a young, fat duck and prepare for the oven as you 
would a chicken. Instead of the usual stuffing, use apples, pared, 
cored and quartered. Season duck with salt, pepper and one 
bay leaf; put in roaster breast down, add water to half cover 
the duck. Cover and roast three hours in a moderately hot oven. 

Your "best man" will smile his thanks to you for this effort. 

Mamsy's Smothered Chicken 

Split a young chicken down the back; season with salt and 
a little pepper. Spread out on a roasting pan, butter generously 
and dredge with flour; add a little water, cover with a close- 
fitted cover and set in a moderately hot oven. When brown, 
turn, and cook until tender. Place chicken on a heated serving 
dish. Add to gravy in the pan one tablespoon of flour, a little 
water and let it boil. Serve with tiny soda or baking powder 
biscuits. Delicious and easy. 

Four Delicious Squab Recipes 

Broiled — Clean, wash and split bird down the back; lay 
in cold water fifteen minutes. Wipe carefully, season with salt 
and pepper and broil over a bright fire. When done, serve at once 
on a hot serving platter with sprigs of parsley and toast points. 

Roasted — Clean, dress and stuff squab as you would chicken; 
place in oven and baste frequently with butter and water until 
brown. Salt, then cover tightly until done. Dredge lightly at 
last with flour. Serve hot with brown gravy made from liquor 
in the roasting pan. 

Stewed — Clean and wash carefully and lay in salt water 
about ten minutes; stuff with a force meat made of bread crumbs, 
pepper, salt and onion; sew up the birds and put on to stew in 
enough cold water to cover them; season with pepper and a pinch 
of nutmeg. Boil slowly in covered sauce pan until tender; take 
from the gravy and lay in a covered dish to keep warm, then 
strain the gravy, adding lemon juice and one tablespoon of currant 
jelly, thickening with brown flour. Boil up once and pour over 
the birds. Serve at once. 



GAME AND POULTRY— Continued 

Squab Pie 

Clean, truss and stuff birds, parboil them fifteen minutes. 
Prepare a puff paste, line a deep dish with this and lay the birds 
in, squeeze a bit of lemon juice over them; add pepper, salt and 
minced parsley; pour over some of the stock in which birds were 
boiled, put on the paste cover, leaving a hole in the center. Bake 
one hour. 

Quail Pie — May be prepared and cooked in the same manner 
as squab. 

Rabbit Pie (Missouri Style) 

Clean and disjoint two young rabbits, cover with boiling 
water, add an onion, a slice of bacon, a bay leaf, salt and pepper^ 
and simmer, tightly covered, until quite tender. Remove meat 
to large baker or casserole, thicken the stock with flour and Kit- 
chen Boquet and strain over the meat. Cover with a rich bis- 
cuit crust and bake half an hour. 

The pie is easier to serve and more attractive as well, if crust 
is cut into biscuits first, then placed closely together over the 
meat. Brush over with cream or milk to insure a delicate crisp- 
ness. 

APPROPRIATE SAUCES FOR SERVING WITH 



Roast Beef 

Tomato catsup. 

Grated horseradish. 
Roast Mutton 

Stewed gooseberries. 
Roast Lamb 

Mint Sauce. 
Roast Pork 

Apple Sauce. 
Roast Turkey 

Cranberry or celery. 

Plum or grape sauce. 
Roast Chicken 

Currant Jelly. 
Boiled Turkey 

Oyster sauce. 



Broiled Steak 

Mushrooms — Fried onions. 
Pigeon Pie 

Mushroom sauce. 
Roast Goose 

Apple sauce. 
Fried Salmon 

Egg sauce. 
Broiled Mackerel 

Stewed Gooseberries. 
Boiled or Baked Fish 

White cream sauce. 

Drawn Butter sauce. 

Hollandaise sauce. 




HAVE OVEN moderately hot for all paper bag cookery, 
and grease inside of bags lightly for meats and fish. These 
bags come in assorted sizes for various purposes, are made 
of chemically prepared paper, and are both air and moisture 
proof. The method of using them is very simple, and they have 
many advantages over cooking in pans. 

Place the food flat in the bag, preparing with all seasonings 
as for serving, exclude the air by light pressure, fold ends over, 
moisten the tags and press into place. Set the bag into the oven 
so that paper does not touch the sides and do not move it until 
done, when it may be tested by a slender hat pin without breaking 
the bag open. 

Sweet potatoes cook in forty-five minutes without forming 
a thick, hard skin. Small sausages cook in fifteen minutes with- 
out odor or spattering grease. Chicken split, buttered and 
seasoned, will cook in forty-five minutes, also stuffed tenderloin 
in same time. Fish cooks perfectly with no odor and retains 
juices and flavor. Green peppers cut into strips and salted are 
fine baked in bag about twenty minutes. 

Roasts are lightly seasoned before cooking and cook evenly 
with no attention. Loaf bread may be also baked successfully 
by this method, with no watchfulness from the cook. 



ENTREES, BREAKFAST AND 
LUNCHEON DISHES 



Chicken Mousse 

(To be served as Cold Entree or Salad) 

Prepare one pint of the meat by removing the breasts from 
one or two cooked chickens and running same through the meat 
chopper two or three times until reduced to a fine powder. Mois- 
ten two tablespoon fuls of granulated gelatine in half a cup of cold 
milk and then dissolve by setting it in boiling water. Have in 
readiness one pint of whipped cream which has been drained 
quite dry. Season the chicken with salt, pepper, a dash of nut- 
meg, and some lemon juice, mix thoroughly with the dissolved 
gelatine and then fold in lightly the whipped cream. Place in a 
wet loaf pan (long and narrow preferred) and chill on the ice. 
Turn out on platter at serving time and surround with a mayonnaise 
of celery garnished with olives and celery tips. 

Potatoes en Surprise 

Line a baking dish with mashed potatoes whipped very 
light, seasoned with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoon 
of melted buttter, and one-fourth cup of heated cream. Fill 
cavity with a pint of oysters, heated in a cream sauce. To the 
remaining potatoes add the well beaten white of one egg and cover 
the oysters, pressing through a vegetable sieve. Put in oven to 
brown (about ten minutes). Serve garnished with hard boiled eggs 
cut in quarters, and place in the center a large star cut from a 
scarlet sweet pepper. 

This makes a delicious luncheon or supper meat dish, served 
with tiny baking powder biscuits, and may be served with roasted 
chicken or turkey as a dinner dish. 

Sweet Bread Cutlets 

Wash, parboil and simmer for twenty minutes one pair of 
sweetbreads, adding a slice of onion, one-half teaspoonful of lemon 
juice and a bay leaf, with a teaspoonful of salt. Drain well, and 
when cool remove skin and membrane and cut in large slices. 
Make white sauce with four tablespoons butter, six of flour and 
one cup of milk; season well with salt, pepper and lemon juice. 
Cool this also, and then put two slices of meat together with 
sauce, coating it well. Bread and fry like croquettes, and serve 
with green peas or a sauce. 



ENTREES— Continued 



Mushrooms a la Cream 



Drain one can of mushrooms and saute five minutes in a 
little butter; then add a cream sauce made of two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter blended with three tablespoonfuls flour, one-fourth 
cup of juice from the mushrooms, one-fourth teaspoon salt, dash 
of pepper and one cup of cream (if you can spare it). Serve on 
rounds of toast or in pattie shells. 



Banana Fritters 



Sift together one-half cup of flour and one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of salt, drop the yolk of one egg into the center of the mixture, 
add slowly one-fourth cupful milk; when milk is about half used, 
beat the mixture until very smooth and stir in the rest of the 
milk. Cover the batter and set aside for an hour or more. When 
ready to use, fold in the white of the egg beaten dry. Remove 
the skin and the coarse threads from the bananas, cut them in 
halves crosswise, then cut the halves lengthwise and dip pieces 
in the batter, and fry in deep fat to a golden brown. Serve 
sprinkled with powdered sugar and cinnamon, or lemon juice, 
as a dessert dish, or with currant jelly or a hot sauce as an entree 
with meats. 

Currant Jelly 

Melt half a cup of currant jelly in a cup of boiling water; 
add half a cup of sugar and let cook five minutes, then stir in a 
teaspoonful of corn strach made smooth in a little cold water; 
let it cook five or six minutes, than add a teaspoonful of butter 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Pineapple Fritters 

Soak thin slices of pineapple in lemon juice two hours. Reat 
separately the white and yolks of four eggs; stir into the yolks a 
scant cup of sifted flour, and a salt spoon of salt; beat the batter 
well and add two tablespoonfuls of cream, then stir in the well 
beaten whites of eggs. The batter should be thick enough to 
drop from the spoon. When batter is ready dip in the pieces of 
pineapple and fry in hot fat. Drain on soft paper and serve with 
pulverized sugar and lemon juice. 

Pineapple Syrup 

Save the waste pieces, rind and core of pineapple. Add to 
them one cup of sugar, two cupfuls of water and the rind of one- 
quarter of an orange. Roil until sirupy. Strain through a vege- 
table press. Use this syrup for flavoring, or pour it over fruit 
salad, or it may be heated and served with fruit fritters. 



ENTREES— Continued 
Egg Cutlets 

Cook three eggs twenty minutes; when cold remove the shell 
and chop very fine; put one cup of milk in a double boiler; mix 
one tablespoonful of butter and two of flour; add to it the scald- 
ing milk and cook until it is a smooth, thick paste; add to the chop- 
ped eggs a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of salt, 
a few drops of onion juice and a pinch of pepper; mix well and turn 
out to cool; then shape in cutlet shape; dip in egg; then in bread 
crumbs and fry in hot deep fat; remove, drain on paper and stick 
a small piece of parsley in the end of each cutlet; have ready a 
cream sauce, to which you have added a cup of peas; arrange 
the cutlets on a hot platter, and pour around them the cream 
sauce. 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Strawberries 

Prepare berries for an ordinary serving. Warm biscuit in 
oven before using. Cut or crush oblong cavity in top of biscuit 
to form basket. Fill the cavity with berries and serve with cream 
or milk. Sweeten to taste. Peaches, blackberries, raspberries, 
blueberries, pineapples, bananas and other fruit, fresh or preserved, 
can be served with shredded wheat biscuit in the same way. 

Eggs a la Milanaise 

Beat four eggs just enough to mix whites and yolks, then add 
one tablespoonful cream, three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce 
and two tablespoonfuls Parmeson cheese, salt and pepper. Put 
one tablespoonful of butter into frying pan; when melted turn 
in egg mixture. Cook and serve as an omelet. 

Shirred Eggs 

Melt butter in heated shallow dishes, or ramekins and care- 
fully break one or two eggs into each. Season lightly, add a 
tablespoonful of rich milk for every egg and cook in moderate 
oven until the yolk is set. Finely sliced meat slightly moistened 
may be placed in dish before adding the egg, or a spoonful of 
thickened meat gravy instead of milk makes a pleasing change. 
Eggs may be cooked in the same way in hollowed out tomato 
halves or green peppers. 

Omelet a la Washington 

Let one cup of milk come to a boil, then pour it over one 
cup of fine bread crumbs, and let it stand while stirring six eggs. 
Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt, a little white pepper and 
add the soaked crumbs. Put a large table spoon of butter in the 
omelet pan; when hot, but not brown, put in omelet and cook 
slowly; when brown, fold and serve at once. 



ENTREES— Continued 
Luncheon Eggs a la My Husband 

For six persons prepare a cream sauce with two tablespoons 
each of butter and flour and one pint of milk, to this add a cup 
of grated cheese, season with salt and paprika. Pour half the 
sauce into a shallow baking dish and break over this six eggs, 
and cover with remainder of suace. Sprinkle the top with cheese 
and bake about ten minutes, or just long enough for the eggs to 
set. (This tastes mighty good to a traveling man). 

Eggs en robe de Chambre 

Peel six uniform potatoes. Bake in the oven; when done 
cut a piece from the side of each potato and remove the meat, 
leaving a firm shell. Beat well and add one tablespoon melted 
butter, salt to taste and sufficient heated cream to make fluff. 
Press through a vegetable sieve, lightly fill potatoes, make a cavity 
in each potato and drop in an egg. Dust with salt and pepper, 
replace the round cut from the potato, set the potatoes in a baking 
pan, put them in the oven a few minutes until the egg is set. 
Serve with slices of bread and butter. New and delicate. 



Needles and Pins 

(Small points about Eggs) 

Cooking eggs in boiling water renders them tough and in- 
digestible; for this reason the water in which they are cooked 
should be kept below the boiling point. 

Soft Boiled Eggs 

Put eggs, one at a time, into a sauce pan of boiling water. 
Cover and set on the stove for five or six minutes. 



Hard Boiled Eggs 

To have eggs cooked fine through and through, place them 
in rapidly boiling water, cover and set away from the flame where 
they will cook below the boiling point for twenty-five or thirty 
minutes. If they are to be sliced, let them cool in the water in 
which they were cooked and they will slice smoothly. 

Eggs taken raw, in a spoonful of wine, can be digested by the 
most delicate stomach. They are rich in muscle-making materials, 
and may be used as a substitute for meat. They should be com- 
bined with starchy food, such as potatoes, rice or bread. 




RECEIPTS FOR 

VEGETABLES 




SELECT fresh, firm, crisp vegetables. It never pays to buy 
wilted or partially decayed ones, no matter how cheap. They 
are unwholesome and dear at any price. Prepare vegetables 
and let stand in cold water half an hour before putting over the 
fire in boiling water, which should not cease boiling until the 
vegetable is cooked. Green vegetables should be cooked in slightly 
salted water, underground vegetables and those containing starch 
in unsalted water. 

Timely Hints 

Unless you are a graduate from a domestic science school, 
little Mrs. Newlywed, or better still, from your Queen Mother's 
Kitchen, you will be terribly in doubt as to the length of time 
vegetables should be boiled. We have time only for a few hints 
and suggestions, but they may help to scatter the clouds of uncer- 
tainty. Every day you will have the company of your splendid 
teacher — experience — and will soon find that most vegetables 
are oftener overcooked than undercooked. 

Green corn will require only about fifteen minutes boiling, 
while asparagus should cook thirty minutes, and fresh peas, new 
potatoes, young cabbage, cauliflower, fresh tomatoes, summer 
squash and carrots, thirty-five minutes. Young beets, turnips, 
string beans and lima beans should boil about three-quarters of 
an hour. Medium sized sweet potatoes and squash will bake in 
thirty-five or forty minutes; potatoes require forty-five to sixty 
minutes. Baked potatoes are considered most wholesome, even 
for the invalid. They are cooked to their perfection when baked 
in a paper bag (see paper bag cookery), but where this method of 
cooking is not provided for, the potatoes may be boiled in salted 
water for ten minutes, then put into the oven, they will bake 
more quickly than if placed cold in the oven. 

To preserve the color of green vegetables, put them on to 
cook in boiling water with a pinch of soda; or keep the cover 
off the kettle while boiling. 

Potatoes Hollandaise 

Scrape new potatoes and cook until tender in boiling water. 
Drain well and cover with Hollandaise sauce. 



VEGETABLES— Continued 
Caramel Sweet Potatoes 

Boil one dozen small sweet potatoes in two quarts of hot 
water until tender. Peel and arrange in a shallow baking dish 
and sprinkle them with one teaspoonful of salt. Then pour over 
them a sauce made from one cup of hot water and one and one- 
half cups of brown sugar and two tablespoonfuls of butter, boil 
ten minutes; or roll potatoes in melted butter and dredge thickly 
with granulated sugar and brown in oven. After the sauce has 
been poured over the potatoes they should be put into a moderate 
oven and baked until nicely browned. 

Macaroni Milanaise 

Cook half a package of macaroni in three quarts of salted 
boiling water until tender. Drain well and cover with cold water 
for ten minutes or more. Cook one can of tomatoes fifteen minutes 
with a bay leaf, a bit of mace, onion, cloves, parsley, salt and pepper; 
strain and thicken with one-fourth cup each of butter and flour 
blended tegether, or use a small can of tomato puree. Drain 
macaroni again, mix with sauce, add one cupful of chopped green 
peppers parboiled, or cooked meat, as ham, calves liver or tongue, 
if for supper or luncheon, and serve at once or put into a baking 
dish. Sprinkle top with grated cheese, or buttered cracker 
crumbs, and bake one-half hour. 

Delicate Cabbage 

Slice a small cabbage and cook in boiling salted water un- 
covered about twenty minutes or until tender. Drain well and 
mix lightly with a white sauce made of three tablespoonsful each 
of butter and flour and one and one-half cups of milk. Season 
well, place in baking dish and brown. 

Corn Oysters 

To one can of corn add salt, pepper, half a cup of flour sifted 
with one teaspoon of baking powder, and one tablespoon of butter 
melted and two well beaten eggs. Fry on a griddle by the spoonful 
and serve very hot. 

Stuffed Onions 

Remove the outer skin from six Spanish onions and par- 
boil twnety minutes. Drain well, cut a slice from top of each 
onion and remove center carefully, leaving a cup nearly an inch 
thick. Chop the portion removed quite fine and mix thoroughly 
with an equal measure of cold cooked veal or chicken, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one-half cup of soft bread crumbs 
and one-fourth cup of melted butter. Put a spoonful of the mix- 
ture into the hollow of each onion, then put in two or three 
chestnuts that have been shelled, blanched and boiled tender, 
finish filling the onions with the prepared mixture. Bake slowly 
three-quarters of an hour, basting three or four times with butter 
melted in hot water. Fifteen minutes before the time for serving 
sprinkle the tops with buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. 



VEGETABLES— Continued 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Press two cups baked sweet potatoes through a vegetable 
press; add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, one fourth teaspoonful salt. Mix and form into cylinder 
croquettes; dip in crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Drain on soft 
paper and serve with a cream sauce. Always keep white paper 
napkins in the kitchen for use in cooking. 

Cauliflower Clusters 

Remove all leaves from a firm white cauliflower and soak 
for an hour in salted water. Remove, place in white cloth, and 
boil thirty minutes, then drain well. Separate the head into 
flowerets and roll each in seasoned bread crumbs. Beat two 
eggs slightly with three tablespoons of water and roll each piece 
of the cauliflower in this liquid, then finish with a second coating 
of crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat and heap in the center of a serving 
dish. Pour a white sauce around the cauliflower. 

How to Prepare Green Peppers for Stuffing 

In preparing peppers for stuffing, select those of uniform 
size, wash and plunge in boiling water for about ten minutes; 
then drop into cold water to keep them green, cut off the stem 
end and scoop out the seeds and inside of the peppers; fill with any 
combination or meats you may desire. 

Peppers with Creamed Fish 

Parboil the peppers ten minutes, then fill with creamed fish 
of any kind. Then sprinkle with a layer of fine crumbs, dot 
with butter and brown lightly in a quick oven. Creamed carrots, 
cauliflower, sprouts and many other vegetables may be baked in 
the pepper cups and served either as a vegetable or an entree. 
Filled with potatoes au gratin and browned, they are a delicious 
accompaniment for chops and steaks. 

Tomatoes Creole 

Cut tomatoes into thick slices, dredge with flour and fry 
rather slowly in half butter and half drippings until nicely browned. 
Place on heated serving dish and keep warm while making the 
sauce. Fry equal quantities of chopped onions and green peppers 
in the fat remaining in pan quite slowly and add some cut to- 
mato (the end slices may be used for this purpose). Let simmer 
ten minutes, add seasoning of curry powder if liked also minced 
parsley, and pour around cooked tomato. 




NEW SALADS, PICKLES AND JELLIES 



Stuffed Tomato Salad 



Chill and drain tomatoes after peeling and fill with cut celery 
and green peppers mixed with mayonnaise; the tomato pulp also 
may be used after draining well. Another satisfactory filling is 
cucumber, tomato pulp and pecans; and a little onion may be 
added to either when liked. A spoonful of anchovy, celery, 
tomato, and caviar with mayonnaise is a fine relish, if well chilled. 
Sardines and hard cooked eggs make a staisfactory filling, with 
bits of lemon pulp. 



Red Aspic Jelly 



Simmer for a half hour one can tomatoes, one bay leaf, one 
slice onion, six pepper corns, bit of mace, four cloves and one 
teaspoon salt. Strain while hot over two-thirds box gelatine 
which has been softened in half cup of cold water and add one 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar. Strain again and mold individu- 
ally. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 



Roquefort Salad 



Cut in quarters a crisp head of lettuce. Make a French 
dressing with half a teaspoon each of salt and paprika, three 
tablespoons of tarragon vinegar and half a cup of olive oil into 
which has been crumbled half a cupful of Roquefort cheese. Have 
all ice cold; place lettuce in pretty serving dish, pour dressing 
over and serve with crisp wafers and coffee, hot, strong and 
clear. A salad men are particularly fond of. 



Salad Martinique 

Shred crisp head lettuce and form deep nests; fill the centers 
with cut apple and white grapes (halved and seeded). Place 
across the top match like strips of celery in lattice fashion, and 
over these arrange some strips of pimiento. Sprinkle one spoon- 
ful of chopped nuts over each serving and serve with either mayon- 
naise or French dressing, made with lemon juice instead of vinegar. 
Always shred lettuce with scissors. 



SALADS — Continued 
Frozen Tomato Salad 

Soften one teaspoon gelatine in one-third cup strained tomato 
juice one-half hour, then dissolve by pouring over it the boiling 
hot tomato juice from a quart can of tomatoes pressed through a 
colander. \\ hen cold, add one teaspoon of salt, juice of one lemon, 
ten drops onion juice and put in freezer and freeze to the consist- 
ency of wet snow: then add one cup finely cut English walnuts 
or pecans, and pack in molds for an hour. Serve on shredded 
lettuce, with a cooked dressing. 

Oyster Salad 

Select medium sized oysters and scald in their own liquor; 
drain and chill. Place on lettuce leaves, sprinkle well with lemon 
juice, salt and paprika, and pour over all mayonnaise or cooked 
dressing diluted with whipped cream, and mixed with an equal 
amount of celery as oysters. Serve with saltines which have been 
buttered, peppered lightly with cayenne and heated in the oven. 

Chicken Salad 

Cook a fat fowl slowly in boiling water, with a slice of onion, 
a bay leaf, sprig of parsley and salt. Cool in the liquor and cut 
with shears into uniform pieces, rejecting all the skin and fat. 
Allow three teaspoons of olive oil and one of lemon juice to a 
pint of chopped meat; mix thoroughly and let stand for an hour. 
Have in readiness one cup of cut celery and half a cup of blanched 
almonds, coarsely chopped. Mix these with the chicken adding 
a few chopped olives and six small pickles chopped fine. Mix 
well with mayonnaise: and if winter time allow the salad to freeze. 
Chicken salad is much improved by being allowed to freeze. 

Combination Salad 

Alix a scant cup each of cut celery, thinly sliced cucumber, 
diced tomato, apple and a few spoonfuls each of sliced green 
peppers, radishes, and young onions with a French dressing and 
serve on cress or lettuce leaves. 

Paradise Salad 

Combine chopped apple, white grapes (halved and seeded), 
sliced bananas, orange, pineapple, chopped celery, English walnuts 
or pecans and Maraschino cherries, stuffed with blanched almonds. 
Mix lightly with a cooked dressing, made fluffy with shipped 
cream and serve on beds of shredded lettuce. 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

Beat two whole eggs until thick and lemon colored. Blend 
one teaspoon of mustard, one-half teaspoon of salt, one sixteenth 
teaspoon of cayenne with two tablespoons sugar in a small pot, 
add one-third cup of vinegar and put over the fire. When mixture 
reaches the boiling point, pour over beaten eggs, return to the fire 
and cook over boiling water till it thickens, beating with a dover 
egg beater. Remove from the fire, add two tablespoons butter 



SALADS — Continued 

one teaspoon of strawberry extract and beat with egg beater 
until cold. When ready to use, thin with cream whipped stiff. 
Use dover egg beater. 

It is a matter of economy to make cooked salad dressing 
with the egg yolks left from making a white cake. It may be 
put in jars and set in the ice chest, and will keep for days. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Mix with one egg yolk, one teaspoon lemon juice and a little 
salt and paprika, also mustard if desired. Add gradually olive 
oil until thick enough to form. Add oil more freely alternating 
with one tablespoon each of lemon juice and vinegar, tarragon 
preferred; or two of either, using three-fourths cup all together. 
Material must be ice cold. Make thinner with whipped cream 
at serving time. 

French Dressing 

One teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon paprika, dash of 
cayenne, six tablespoons olive oil and two of vinegar. 

Corn Salad 

Twelve ears of corn cut from cob, chop two pounds of cab- 
bage, eight large green peppers, four onions, two heads of celery. 
Add a small box of mustard one cup of sugar, one cup of vinegar 
and salt well. Cook twenty minutes and can. This will chal- 
lenge the appetite. 

Sliced Cucumber Pickles 

Slice fifty cucumber, twelve sweet peppers and eight onions. 
Cover with a cup of salt and let stand four hours; then drain 
four hours and if too salty wash with clear water. Put into granite 
kettle and cover with half vinegar and half water. Add a large 
handful of white mustard seed and a large tablespoon of celery 
seed. When ready to boil add two tablespoons of flour and two 
of ground mustard well mixed with cold vinegar, stir in the pickle 
and seal while hot. 

Cucumber Mangoes 

Take two dozen or more large sized cucumbers and weight 
down in cold strong brine for nine days. Soak in clear cold water 
two days, then place a layer of grape leaves and a layer of cu- 
cumbers in a granite pan with a lump of alum the size of a walnut 
broken fine. Place on stove and let steam ten minutes or more; 
remove and cool. Slice cucumbers open lengthwise, remove 
seeds and fill cavity with seeded raisins and finely chopped lemons 
(it is much easier to run lemons through a food chopper). Six 
lemons and two pounds of raisins will fill two dozen cucumbers. 
After filling sew them up and place in jar and cover with hot 
spiced vinegar. Slice one or two lemons in the vinegar, and any 
pieces of cucumber unfilled can be put in. Re-heat vinegar 
nine days; cover and set away for future use. 



SALADS — Continued 
Peach Honey 

Select eight pounds well flavored ripe peaches. Scald with 
boiling water, then place in cold water and remove skin. Put 
fruit through a meat grinder, add eight pounds of sugar and two 
cans of grated pineapple; cook forty minutes. It must be stirred 
almost constantly at the last to prevent scorching. Put into 
glasses and cover well with melted paraffin. 

Grape Conserve 

Pulp six pounds of grapes and cook with a little water until 
pulp can be run through a colander; then add skins and four 
pounds of sugar and cook for ten minutes; add two pounds of 
seeded raisins, four oranges cut fine, and orange peeling chopped 
fine. Cook to the consistency of jelly, put in glasses and cover 
with paraffin. Serve with chopped nuts and whipped cream. 

Quince Honey 

Grate four quinces and one apple. Boil three pounds of 
granulated sugar and one pint of water three minutes; add grated 
quince and apple and boil twenty minutes, stirring to prevent 
scorching, put into glasses and cover with paraffin. 

Barberry Jelly 

Jelly made from barberries is almost as clear and to many 
quite as delicious in flavor as the more expensive currants. It 
needs a touch of the frost to give it the dark crimson color and 
"tang" that makes it so acceptable. A good deal of sugar is 
required as the fruit is extremely acid. Free the berries from steins, 
wash and allow to every two quarts of berries one-half cup of 
water. Cook until the juice will press out easily, take from 
the fire, mash with a wooden spoon, then strain and measure the 
juice. To each pint of juice allow a pound of sugar and proceed 
as with currant jelly. 

Barberries combine well with apples, quinces, pears and 
raisins. They are often put up with the latter, using a pound of 
raisins to every five pounds of berries. With apples allow a dozen 
sour apples to each four quarts of berries. For decoration pur- 
poses the barberry can scarcely be excelled. Its rich color renders 
it exceedingly effective either in the decoration of game, cold 
meats or fancy dishes. 

Spiced Gooseberries 

Place in the preserving keetle five pounds of gooseberries 
(capped and stemmed), one pint of vinegar, four pounds of sugar 
and two tablespoons each of ground cinnamon and cloves, cook 
all slowly about two hours, stirring it often during the last hour, 
as it scorches easily. Put into jelly glasses and when cold cover 
with paraffin. This keeps indefinitely and is excellent with either 
cold meats or to serve with steak. 



SALADS — Continued 
English Chutney 

Chop three pounds each of ripe tomatoes, onions and apples, 
and add three pounds of brown sugar; to this add three teaspoons 
each of salt, allspice and cinnamon, two teaspoons cloves, one 
teaspoon cayenne pepper. Use ground spices. Put all in a pre- 
serving kettle and barely cover with cold vinegar; set over the 
fire and let simmer for about one hour. When nearly done throw 
in two handfuls of currants and one of raisins. Put in jars or 
glasses, and cover with paraffin. Delicious with meats. 

Cherry Olives 

Fill a quart jar with large ripe cherries, leaving the stems 
on. Dissolve two tablespoons of salt and two of sugar in equal 
parts of water and strong cider vinegar (about one pint of each), 
pour over the cherries and seal. They will be ready for use in 
ten days, but will be more delicious in thirty or sixty days. A 
unique olive and most delicious. 

A FEW SALAD SUGGESTIONS 

Always thin cooked and mayonnaise dressings with whipped 
cream. This makes a light, fluffy dressing required to produce a 
dainty salad. These dressings may be used with the following 
combinations: 

Bananas rolled in chopped nuts. 
Deviled or stuffed eggs and lettuce. 
Apples, celery and almonds. 

Tomatoes filled with crab meat and capers, or chopped 
vegetables, apples and nuts. 

Pineapple, banana, orange, cherries and nuts. 
Sweetbreads and mushrooms. 
Jellied chicken and chicken salad. 
Sliced cooked fish with chopped olives. 

French Dressing is used with these and like combinations: 

Cooked spinach with hard cooked eggs. 

Grated cucumber, onions and lettuce. 

Baked beans, minced onion and dill pickle. 

Chopped cabbage, red and green peppers with grated horse 
radish. 

Combination salad. 

Cooked vegetables, as cauliflower, string beans, beets, carrots 
and lettuce mixed with capers or chopped pickle. 




Don't attempt to put up anything by guess work. Preserves, 
jellies and pickles all require exact measurements to be perfect. 
Every fruit needs its own time for cooking. Get a preserving and 
pickling book and follow the directions to a "t". Or better still, 
ask the good housekeepers you know for their recipes and write 
them down word for word. 

Don't think you can put up a large quantity of fruit as 
easily as you can a small one, however experienced you may be. 
There is a deal of standing to do, and interest flags when the body 
is weary. Much good fruit is spoiled on preserving and canning 
day because it was put up when the housekeeper had reached a 
listless and exhausted stage. 

Don't think that you can be economical with sugar when 
preserves and jellies are on hand, for you will find this a great 
mistake. In the first place, fruit stinted of sugar seldom keeps, 
and in the second place, it has no taste. Jelly will not "jell" if 
the fruit juice and sugar are not measured exactly, according to 
directions. But sometimes the jellying process is delayed for 
some reason or other, even when there is enough sugar. In this 
event put the jelly in the sunshine for a little while, where the 
action of the bright light will produce a desired change. 

Don't think you can be entirely successful in all your can- 
ning and preserving and pickling if you have only makeshift 
tools. Proper implements save time. They are more likely to 
bring success. The utensils needed for a good batch of work 
are a preserving kettle, well cleaned and dried jars, several jelly 
bags, half of cheese-cloth and the remainder of heavier cloth; a 
long handled spoon; a puree sieve, two or three large bowls, a 
ladle, pair of scales, a quart, pint and gill measure and a canner. 

Don't think because your family consists of only two that 
you must use quart jars. As all the fruit cannot be eaten at once, 
it is more sensible to put into pint jars and jelly glasses; for sealing 
the latter use paraffin, which is sold by the pound. Have about 
a quarter of an inch of wax at the top of the fruit and seal up the 
tumblers with letter paper put on with white of egg, or library 
paste. 



DON'TS— Continued 

Don't think because you haven't a regular boiler for your 
fruit jars your nice things will spoil in the making; when I did not 
have a wash boiler, I used a ten pound lard can, purchased for 
fifteen cents from my grocer; but the water must never come up to 
the top of the jars, and they must stand on something while the 
boiling is going on or they will break. You might cover the bot- 
tom of the boiler with straw, or folded newspapers, if you haven't 
a trivet, then put over the covering some weight or other to hold 
it down. The jars should be at least two inches under water, 
and if bottles are boiled the water should reach one inch below 
the cork. After the jars have been placed in the boiler, pour 
the water in cold and place on the stove where it will come to a 
slow boil. 

Don't forget that the time for boiling depends entirely upon 
the fruit, and if you have lost the recipes pin this memorandum 
up in the kitchen: 

Peaches should boil from twenty to thirty minutes; ripe pears 
about thirty minutes; plums about fifteen minutes; apricots 
twenty minutes; pineapple forty-five minutes; berries of all 
kinds five minutes; cherries five to ten minutes; quince about 
twenty-five minutes. 

Don't forget that when the time for boiling is up the jars 
should be removed from the water and set upside down to cool. 
Set them upon a dry table, as the least drop of cold water will 
crack the jars. 

Don't forget to fill up the slack jars with hot syrup as soon 
as they are taken from the bath; then close them at once, turning 
each one upside down when the top is tight. 

Don't forget when canning vegetables that the same filling 
up of slack jars is made with boiling water, but the jar must be 
at once sealed and boiled again for five or ten minutes. 

Don't forget when jars are cold to examine each one to see 
if it is air tight; then if all is well, wipe the jar off with a clean 
wet cloth and set them at once in a cold dry place. 

Don't forget the fruit of the vine when you are wondering 
what to put up, especially the wild grapes, which come in with 
the last of September. The flavor of these is incomparable, and 
everything from preserves to wine may be made of the fragrant 
grapes. 

Now if you want to lay aside money with which to purchase 
a gift for your "gude mon" at Christmas and for which he is never 
to see the bill, don't forget that the good grocery stores pay a 
good price for first-class home-made products of any sort. The 
labels must be written by hand, on neatly cut slips of letter paper. 
This gives the home look, and if the real home taste is inside the 
jar the grocer will take the batch however small or big. 




BREAKFAST CAKES AND BISCUIT HINTS 

THE OVEN should be heated before the cakes are ready to be 
baked, the pans greased before the mixture is prepared. 
Always sift flour before it is measured, then sift again, with 
other dry ingredients. The eggs are next well beaten and added 
with the milk to the dry mixture. The shortening, which may be 
either butter, lard or a compound, is usually melted and added 
last. After ingredients are thoroughly mixed all should be well 
beaten, put in greased pans and baked at once. Iron pans, 
gem and deep pop-over pans, must be heated as well as greased. 
These mixtures require a hot oven and should bake in twenty 
or twenty-five minutes. Biscuits require only five or ten minutes 
to bake. Soda biscuits are better if the dough is allowed to stand 
two or three hours before baking, while those made with baking 
powder should go immediately into the oven. 

Graham Gems 

To one egg well beaten, add one and one-half cups of sour 
milk, one-half a tablespoon brown sugar, and one-half a teaspoon 
of salt, mix one-half teaspoon of soda with a cup of graham flour 
and add to the egg and milk mixture, then add more flour to make 
a stiff batter, and one tablespoon of melted lard. Drop from spoon 
into well greased hot gem pans and bake fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven. 

Jim Pops 

Beat the yolks of two eggs and add two cups of sweet milk 
and one teaspoon of salt. Sift two cups of flour and add gradually 
to the milk and egg mixture, using a dover egg-beater; add one 
tablespoon of melted butter, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs. Pour into hot, well-greased pop-over pans and bake in 
rather a hot oven, thirty minutes or more, according to size. 
Serve promptly. 

Waffles 

Sift together two cups flour, two teaspoons of sugar, two 
teaspoons of baking powder and one teaspoon of salt and add to 
the well beaten yolks of two eggs. Add one-fourth cup each 
melted lard and butter, beating well with a dover egg beater; 
then add lightly the well beaten whites of eggs. Have waffle 
irons hot and well greased. 



BREAKFAST HINTS— Continued 
Baking Powder Biscuits 

Sift together one pint of pastry flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoon of salt and one teaspoon of 
sugar, add one tablespoon each of butter and lard, blending with 
tips of fingers. Moisten with milk as soft as can be handled, 
using a knife instead of a spoon for mixing. Roll out on a well 
floured board, cut in small biscuits and bake in a very hot oven. 

English Scones 

Sift one pint of flour twice with a teaspoon each of salt and 
sugar, also three teaspoons of baking powder. If made with sour 
milk or buttermilk use one-third teaspoon of soda and one of baking 
powder. Rub into the flour two tablespoons of lard and one of 
butter, also add yolk of an egg. Moisten with milk, roll lightly 
until round in shape, cut into quarters, brush over with milk 
and bake quickly. Add currants if for tea. Serve very hot with 
butter. 

Spoon Corn Bread 

Set one pint of milk over the fire and let it come to the boiling 
point; sift in three-fourths cup of yellow corn meal, stirring all 
the while; let it boil up once and take from the fire; add one tea- 
spoon of salt, one tablespoon melted butter and the unbeaten 
yolks of three eggs. Beat hard for three minutes; then fold in 
the stifly beaten whites of three eggs and bake about twenty 
minutes in a greased baking dish from which it is to be served. 
When done serve with a spoon immediately. A Southern dish, 
old and delicious. 

Yeast Bread and Rolls 

Make sponge with one cup warm water, one cup milk and a 
quart of flour, and one cake compressed yeast dissolved in one- 
half cup of water. Cover and leave in a warm place. When 
light, stir well, add two teaspoons salt and a tablespoon softened 
lard if desired. Beat in flour until stiff enough to knead, then 
knead until smooth. Let it raise again, form into two loaves, 
when light bake about three-fourths of an hour. Sugar may be 
added, but in very small quantity. Shortening retards the rising 
of bread and sugar hastens it. 

For rolls, make sponge with scalded milk, slightly cooled, and 
add more shortening; let it raise twice before shaping into tiny 
rolls little larger than your finger, and about three inches long. 
Brush rolls with melted butter, when very light bake in a hot oven. 
Shape bread sticks with hands and bake crisp. 

Nut Bread 

To one quart of white bread sponge add one cup of sorghum 
molasses, one cup of nuts, either English walnuts or pecans chop- 
ped, and sufficient whole wheat flour to make a soft dough; turn 
out on board and knead well; form into loaves, let raise and 
bake as you would white bread. 




SAVORY SANDWICHES 

Drained English Chutney mixed with a little French mustard 
and lemon juice; buttered whole wheat bread. 

One-fourth cup of butter creamed with a tablespoon each of 
lemon juice and capers, four small pickles and six olives chopped, 
and a seasoning of onion is a savory filling. 

Pressed veal and tartare sauce with whole wheat bread. 

Salmon, lemon juice, butter and sliced pickle. 

Slice of chicken, slice of tomato, mayonnaise, lettuce and 
white bread. 

Sardines, split and boned, lemon juice and paprika. 

Brown bread, grated cheese, butter and chopped nuts. 

Meat or fish salad with lettuce and white bread. 

Chopped veal with horse radish. 

Whole wheat bread, roast beef and horse radish butter. 

Rye bread, chopped Spanish onions and butter creamed 
with paprika. 

Chopped peanuts, salt, shredded lettuce and very thick 
cream, whole wheat bread. 

Chop fine the white meat of cold chicken and mince with an 
equal part of blanched almonds. Add a little shaved celery and 
form into a paste with highly seasoned salad dressing. Spread 
between layers of white and brown bread. 



Epicurean Sandwiches 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter with a tablespoon of French 
mustard, half a teaspoon of Kitchen Boquet, a little paprika and 
celery salt. Add to this two finely chopped eggs, a tablespoon 
each of minced pickle and capers, and a little anchovy paste. 
Spread on very thin slices of bread and put together like layer 
cake, using six slices together. Press firmly and wrap in a cloth, 
then set aside with a light weight on it, for an hour or longer. 
When ready to serve cut in thin slices. Alternate layers of white 
and graham bread make attractive looking sandwiches, and a nut 
and fruit filling may be used. 



SANDWICHES— Continued 

Sweet Sandwiches 

Equal quantities of chopped figs and dates mixed with a little 
thick cream and spread between layers of nut bread makes delicious 
sandwiches. 

Chop fine equal quantities of dates, figs, candied cherries, 
and blanched almonds; soften to a paste with pineapple juice 
and spread between slices of white bread buttered. 

Finely chopped conserved fruits, such as pears, apricots, 
limes, cherries and pineapple. Wine or lemon juice and whipped 
cream slightly sweetened spread on layers of cake or lady-fingers. 

Nasturtium sandwiches are prepared with white or whole 
wheat bread and butter, both packed in an air tight box over 
night with the nasturtium blossoms. This perfumes each, and 
thin sandwiches are made and garnished with fresh flowers. 

When mayonnaise is to be used for sandwiches, three or four 
egg yolks should be substituted for one; it retains its consistency 
when spread. 

Picnic Triangles 

Chop very fine one cup of raisins, two apples, one-fourth 
pound of citron; add juice and grated rind of one lemon and three- 
fourths cup of sugar. Roll out a sheet of pastry, spread with the 
fruit mixture, and cover with another sheet of pastry. Cut into 
triangles, press edges together and bake in a moderate oven. 
Wrap each triangle in paraffin for picnics. These are delicious 
served with coffee. 





CHEESE 

"Cheese is a saucy elf, 

Digesting all except itself." 



Cheese Straws 



Make a paste of one cup of flour, three-fourths cup of grated 
cheese, one-half teaspoon of salt, a little cayenne, tablespoon of 
soft butter, the yolks of two eggs and cold water to moisten. 
Roll thin, cut into narrow strips after spreading with unbeaten 
white of egg and bake quickly. 



Almond Dainties 



Make rich pie pastry, roll and cut into narrow strips; place 
in shallow biscuit pan and cover thickly with grated cheese and 
finely chopped blanched almonds. Bake in a quick oven and serve 
with salad. 



Cheese Balls 



To one cup grated cheese add one-fourth teaspoon of salt, 
speck of paprika and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, beat 
whites of two eggs stiff and add enough of this to moisten cheese. 
Make into balls. Roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve 
hot in a nest of curly lettuce. A similar mixture with larger amount 
of egg white made soft enough to handle with a spoon may be 
dropped on wafers and baked slowly until firm. 



Cheese Puffs 



Place half a cup of water and one-fourth cup of butter in a 
sauce pan over the fire and when this is boiling add four table- 
spoons of flour and two of corn starch, which has been sifted to- 
gether. Beat thoroughly while cooking for several minutes; 
remove from the fire and stir in half a cup of fresh grated cheese. 
Season with salt and paprika and beat in two eggs singly. Press 
the mixture through a pastry bag on a well greased baking sheet, 
making balls less than two inches across. Bake in a very moderate 
oven about twenty-five minutes until light and firm. These may 
be served warm or split open when cold and filled with whipped 
cream to which has been added salt, pepper, and a little Parmesan 
cheese. 




MAKE YOUR DINNER A SUCCESS 



IDEAL service is always that which is least obvious. It is far 
better to keep things simple than to be pretentious. If you 
cannot afford help, a meal that is inexpensive and simple 
should be planned — and made "perfect." 

The success of a company meal depends largely upon the 
accessories. The relishes, surprise fruits, the multitude of cheese 
dainties and the flowers are to a dinner like the trimming to a 
dress — relieving the plainness, and lending an artistic finish that 
the finest meal will not attain if they are omitted. 

Most young housekeepers have the common impression that 
these dainty and appetizing titbits can be prepared only from 
caviar, anchovy paste and other expensive ingredients, when in 
reality the most ordinary materials skilfully combined, are as 
savory and more acceptable because they have the "home touch." 

Canapes make a most acceptable beginning for either a dinner 
or luncheon. And while it bears a foreign name, the canape is 
not necessarily an elaborate French concoction, but rather a 
dainty little morsel prepared to whet the appetite. 

If the color scheme is to be used, the canapes or other begin- 
nings, as well as some feature of each course, should be planned 
accordingly. Oyster cocktail or crab-meat canapes are adaptable 
to a pink or green color scheme. To make the latter, cut bread 
in rounds a quarter of an inch thick and with a sharp knife re- 
move all crust, saute them in butter and toast in the oven. Then 
cover lightly with a mixture of crab-meat pounded to a paste and 
mixed with mayonnaise; spread over this a thin layer of green- 
pepper paste made as follows: remove the cores and seeds, then 
boil peppers until they are very soft, and pound to a paste, adding 
a little lemon juice, olive oil, salt and paprika. Arrange a flower 
of crab flake in the middle, fashioning the center from a bit of 
red pimiento. 

Tiny cream cheese balls, sprinkled with paprika, may gar- 
nish the edge. This dainty course may be served on a small plate, 
covered with a paper doily. The service should include a small 
fork. 



DINNER— Continued 

When canapes are served hot, some other course, fish or 
entree, is omitted. 

In any case canapes, as well as sandwiches accompanying 
other courses, must be small, with decided piquancy in seasoning 
and combination. Only then are they capable of fdling their 
mission, that of stimulating the digestive juices, through both 
eye and palate. 

Raw oysters and clams, whether served plain or with lemon, 
dressed up in a cocktail or baked on the half shell, are always 
served as a first course at a dinner, and are permissable at a 
luncheon. 

When canapes do not inaugurate the meal, piquant sand- 
wiches are sometimes used as relishes with various courses; capers, 
olives and pickles chopped and having a seasoning of lemon juice 
and onion between thin slices of white bread, for instance, being 
passed with escolloped oysters; or a nut butter, olive and fruit 
sandwich club style, may be served with certain salads. A dainty 
sandwich plate, or one of the many pretty baskets is suited to 
the service. 

Cheese may always compose the first course of a dinner, 
accompany the salad, or may be served at the end of the meal, 
but should not be repeated in the same menu. A well planned 
menu never reiterates flavors. 

Unless the occasion is informal or the weather very warm 
fruit has no place at the beginning of a dinner, but is admissable 
as the first course of a luncheon, because the whole meal is of light 
character. 

The fruit cup is always decorative. Tall sherbet or frappe 
glasses are suitable for the service, and should always be set upon 
dessert plates covered with lace or paper doilies. A bit of fern 
always adds to the appearance of the service. 

One of the nicest things about a luncheon is that it may be 
simple or elaborate as one chooses. But always the appointment 
must be correct and of the best, even though simple. 

For the dinner service, use your best damask cloth with initial 
napkins 24 to 27 inches square to match, while for the luncheon, 
sets of doilies are in good taste. These may be of linen, embroid- 
ered or edged with lace and consist of center piece, plate and tumbler 
doilies and may have doilies for the bread and butter plates. You 
are fortunate if you possess a luncheon cloth of embroidery and 
lace. They are lovely. They may be made to fit the table top. 
or if you use a banquet table top (which is removable), the cloth 
may hang over the edge evenly about ten inches. 

China of good quality, but simple in decoration, white and 
gold preferably, is always in good taste. The way the table is 
laid depends on the style of the service. Whether or not the food 
is to be served entirely from the side or partly at the table, and 



DINNER— Continued 

whether or not a maid is in attendance. In any case, the silver 
for all courses up to the dessert is placed in order of use, from out- 
side toward the plate. 

The forks are laid at the left, the knives and spoons at the 
right. The water glass is set at the tips of the knives, the bread 
and butter plate with butter spreader laid across the plate at 
the tips of the forks, and the napkins, eighteen inches square if 
luncheon napkins, are laid at the left, flat or folded over once. 

Salted nuts, relishes and surprise fruits, such as strawberry, 
cherry and white grape creams may be arranged in attractive 
glass dishes on the table. 

The decoration should not be over-elaborate. It is a pretty 
custom to relate the color scheme to the covers, by the use of 
flowers for individual favors. 

The dinner card novelties always help to start conversation: 
they break down formality and make the dinner a merry meal. 

Dinner Menu 

Crab flake Canapes. 

Roast Chicken. Currant Jelly. 

Potatoes En Surprise. Stuffed Onions. 

Asparagus Tips. French Dressing. 

Small olive and nut butter Sandwiches. 

Sunshine Cake piled with Marshmallow Filling and 
Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. Dipped Creme d'menth Cherries. 

Luncheon Menu 

Fruit cup. 

Mushrooms in Puff Paste Cases. 
Potato Croquettes. Peas. 

Olives, Cream Cheese, Nut and Lettuce Salad. 

Roston Rrown Rread Sandwiches. 
Angel Parfait. Mocha Cakes. 

Coffee. 



il 




A CORN LUNCHEON 

IF YOU are an early fall bride, and wish to show your ap- 
preciation of the many pretty pre-nuptial courtesies extended 
to you by your bridesmaids and more intimate friends, you 
will find a corn luncheon one of the most easily executed of bright 
ideas. The table may be covered with one of your wedding gifts, 
a dainty damask luncheon cloth; have for a center piece ears of 
corn forming an elongated inclosure. Select only perfect ears of 
corn, and have the pale green husks drawn back and made to lie 
flat, like the petals of a flower; from them should rise the pearly 
ears of corn, standing upright partly veiled in filmy corn silk. 
Arranged within and overrunning this enclusure should be bright 
blue cornflowers and asparagus fern. Both are so enduring that 
no water will be required, so the greens and flowers may be ar- 
ranged in a loose mass, the greens trailing down the table towards 
either end, and whenever they encounter a candle-stick, wreathing 
themselves about it. The candle-sticks should stand in a row down 
the table, and two on each end; they may be made from the long 
round boxes in which gas mantles come, covered with corn husks; 
a drop of glue in the top of these will make the candle secure. 
Little canoes made of cardboard covered with corn husks, will make 
nice cases to hold the salted almonds and salted popped corn. 
At each place have a wonderful corn husk doll, bearing an armful 
or corn flowers, tied with pale creamy ribbons. On one end of 
the ribbon bow write the guests name and on the other side the 
date. 



LUNCHEON— Continued 
Serve the following menu: 

Cream of Corn Soup 
Corn Oysters Sliced Cucumbers 

Corn Timbales 

Mousseline Sauce 

Hot Corn Meal Gems 

Green pea and lettuce mayonnaise in corn husk baskets 

Pimiento Cheese and Olive Sandwiches 

Apricot Sherbet in Green Jelly cups 

Sunshine Cake Corn Crisps 

Coffee 

A few of the dishes are given in detail 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Mash the contents of a can of corn as fine as possible, place 
in double boiler with a quart of milk and cook one-half hour. 
Place in sauce pan three tablespoons of butter and one of minced 
onion. Cook slowly ten minutes and add three tablespoons of 
flour; cook until frothy and then add salt and pepper and stir 
into the corn and milk. Cook ten minutes more and then rub 
through puree sieve. Beat well the yolks of three eggs, mix with 
one-half cup of cream, pour into the soup, cook one minute, stirring 
meanwhile, and serve with croutons. 

Corn Timbales 

To one cup grated corn pulp, add one cup of milk, one tea- 
spoon each of chopped parsley and onion juice, one of soda cracker 
rolled fine and one teaspoon of salt. Beat two eggs until light, add 
to the other ingredients. Pour into buttered timbale molds, cool 
in a slow oven, the molds standing in a pan of hot water until the 
centers are firm; invert on a pretty dish, garnished with parsley 
and pour over each timbale a spoonful of sauce. 

Mousseline Sauce 

Beat one tablespoon of butter to a cream; add the yolks of 
three eggs, one at a time, then add three tablespoons of lemon 
juice, one-half teaspoon of salt and dash of cayenne. Cook over 
hot water until the sauce thickens, then add another tablespoon 
of butter and half cup of sweet cream; when sauce is hot, serve. 
It should be quite thick and frothy. 

The timbales may be cooked some time in advance and re- 
heated by standing them in hot water as the oven will be required 
for the gems. 



LUNCHEON— Continued 
Hot Corn Gems 

Cream one tablespoon of butter and one of sugar, add the 
yolks of two eggs and mix well; place in the flour sifter one and 
one-half cups each of white flour and corn meal, one teaspoon of 
salt and two teaspoons of baking powder; add this gradually to 
the egg mixture with one and one-half cups of sweet milk; fold 
in lightly the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and pouri nto gem 
pans. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. This amount will 
make twenty-four gems. 

Mayonnaise of Peas 

Mix two cups of cooked chilled green peas and one-fourth 
pound of blanched almonds chopped fine with one-half cup thick 
mayonnaise, to which has been added cream whipped stiff. Make 
little square or oblong baskets of card board, cover with corn 
husks; a strip of cardboard covered with husk serving as a handle. 
Fasten a few blue cornflowers to the side and to the handle; line 
with waxed paper then with pale green lettuce leaves, allowing the 
leaves to come up about the sides. Fill with mayonnaise of peas, 
placing a spoonful of the mayonnaise on top. This forms a pretty 
color effect. Fresh roasted peanuts may be added. 

Apricot Sherbet in Jelly Cups 

Mix a pint of apricot pulp, the juice of two oranges and the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon; add one pint of syrup (made 
by cooking for ten minutes two cups sugar and one cup water). 
Freeze in the usual way. 

For the jelly cups, make a lemon jelly by softening one ounce 
of gelatine in one-third cup of cold water, add one pint boiling 
water, stir until dissolved; add one cup sugar and when cool, 
the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of four; stir in enough 
spinach green to give a pretty green tint, and mold in little border 
molds, or patent charlotte russe molds. When firm turn out and 
fill the hollow centers with the sherbet, which may be topped with 
a spoonful of whipped cream and sprinkled with candied mint 
leaves. 

Corn Crisps 

Pop some corn and place in a large kettle; boil one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sugar and one-half cup of vinegar until it 
crisps when dropped in cold water; pour this over two quarts 
of corn, measured after popping. Stir well with a long handle! 
spoon. When mixed pour in a shallow baking pan that has been 
lined with waxed paper; press it down firmly, lay a piece of waxed 
paper and over this a board smaller than the top of pan, so it will 
fit upon the mixture. On this place two or three flat irons. The 
next day remove the weight, board and paper, turn onto a clean 
board, remove paper from bottom and with a very sharp knife 
cut into slices. Lay these to dry, then wrap in paraffin paper, 
or pile as they are on a pretty green plate. 



*>*^£D-.-.« 




CHAFING DISH REVELATIONS 

THE CHAFING dish was not invented for the sole delight of 
a college girl, or the concocting of a Welch Rarebit. Chafing 
dish cookery is necessarily restricted to certain dishes, and 
while it cannot be used for all purposes, it is possible to boil, 
broil, stew and fry provided the right kind of materials are used. 
Realizing that it is not always convenient to start a hot fire in 
the kitchen if a warm lunch is desired after an evening's enter- 
tainment, and recognizing the peculiar adaptability of the chafing 
dish to purposes of this sort, as well as in one item of domestic 
economy-made-over dishes — it's value is unquestioned and should 
place it among the necessary utensils of the household. 
The fact that there is no necessity for lighting the lamp until the 
last moment, and that it may be extinguished as soon as the 
materials are cooked, is a great factor in it's favor and makes 
alcohol really a cheap fuel. The left-overs of beef, veal, game, 
chicken or fish may be converted in a few minutes into most 
dainty viands. To the young homemaker with but one maid, 
or indeed, no maid at all, the chafing dish is the veriest helping 
hand. The Monday lunch or supper is quickly gotten without 
the use of stove or kitchen; and so again the Sunday night supper, 
and the little informal company lunches afternoons and evenings. 
Unless the work is arranged in a systematic manner, however, 
confusion will result. As recipes call for butter by tablespoonfuls 
which really means an ounce, cut butter in squares of an ounce, 
drop in ice water for a moment, and then with your butter paddles 
roll them into balls. Arrange neatly on a pretty dish and stand 
in the refrigerator for use. Fill a small bowl with flour and have 
sugar, salt, pepper (white and cayenne), and a little butter dish 
containing a bulb of garlic accurately measured, ready for use. 
Measure and put onion and lemon juice into tiny pitchers. 

If whipped cream is to be used prepare it in advance, place 
it in a bowl and keep in a cool place until required for use. Have 
the meat seasoned and ready to form into whatever cooked dish 
is to be prepared. Grate the cheese and have the eggs washed and 
in a separate dish. Wash the parsley and cress. If toast is to 
be used prepare it in the gas oven or over a coal fire, for toasting 
cannot be properly done on a chafing dish. By doing all this be- 
forehand your work at the last moment will be greatly lessened. 



CHAFING DISH REVELATIONS— Continued 

Chicken saute, omelets and egg dishes, creamed dishes, fish 
savouries, stews and light ragouts are the most suitable for the 
chafing dish. When slow cooking is required for creams, rare- 
bits and sauces the hot water pan should always be used. Use 
always the blazer for frying or broiling. The chafing dish may 
be made of any common metals and may cost from seventy-five 
cents to seventy-five dollars. So far as the results accomplished 
are concerned, all are about alike. An alcohol filler is a con- 
venience. Place chafing dish on a tray to avoid accident from 
overflow of alcohol, or the dropping of a match on the table cloth. 
The chafing dish may be placed on the table before the hostess. 
Put all necessary materials that must be measured with a spoon 
on the right hand side, also the butter balls, seasoning in bowls, 
and the milk, or cream to be used measured and put into little 
pitchers on the left; also on the right place a teaspoon, a table- 
spoon for measuring, a long chafing dish spoon and a serving 
spoon. See that the lamp is filled and matches at hand before 
being seated. If a recipe calls for butter and flour rubbed to- 
gether, these may be in the chafing dish before serving time. 
Always use Kitchen Boquet for browning; this saves time in 
waiting for butter to brown and makes a more wholesome and 
palatable sauce. 

Chafing Dish Breakfast Chafing Dish Luncheon 

Grape Fruit. Bouillon. 

Cream of Wheat with cream. Deviled Oysters. Rolls. 

Blanket of Chicken. Filled Celery. 

Toast Points. Coffee. Wafers. Cocoa. 

Chafing Dish Dinner 

Oyster Cocktail. 
Sweetbreads a la Newberg. Rolls. 

Lettuce with Grape Fruit. French Dressing. 

Peanut Cream Sandwiches. 
Cupid's Butter. Coffee. 

Cheese. 
Sweetbreads a la Newberg 

Wash one pound of sweetbreads and cover with boiling 
water seasoned with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Simmer 
about twenty minutes or until tender, and drain well. Cover 
with cold water and when cool break into rather large pieces, 
removing all skins. Make a white sauce with one-fourth cup 
each of butter and flour, and a cup each of thin cream and white 
stock and season well. Add to sweetbreads, one-fourth cup 
each of pimientos and green peppers, cut into pieces (parboiling 
the latter before using), and when scalding hot stir into two 
egg yolks blended with a little cream; add four tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and serve in pattie shells or on toast. 




CTT=TW " [■■ ■ I MA 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CAKE 
AND REGULATION OF OVEN FOR RAKING 



OAF CAKES (if made with butter or com- 
pound) should bake an hour and a half. Heat 
the oven with one burner five minutes and have 
that about half on during the first forty-five minutes 
as cake should not brown before that. Increase 
heat slightly the next twenty-five minutes, and turn 
single burner on almost full the last twenty minutes. 
A pan of hot water on bottom of oven for two-thirds 
of the time is helpful in baking all cakes. Use the 
middle slide of oven, and the cake may be covered during pro- 
cess of raising. If pans are to be oiled, they may be oiled and 
lightly dusted with flour. Sift flour before measuring, then sift 
three or four times. Measure and have all ingredients at hand. 
Cream butter, or compound until smooth; gradually add sugar 
and beat until light and creamy. If yolk of egg is used it 
should be well beaten and added to butter and sugar. Add 
milk, a little at a time, alternately with the flour, reserving 
half a cup of flour, in which sift baking powder and add to cake 
mixture; stir and beat all well together. Whip whites of eggs 
stiff, but not dry, and lightly add at the last. See that the 
mixture comes well to the sides and corners of pan. When done, 
allow loaf cake to remain in pan until cool, when it will come 
out easily. 



RECIPES FOR CAKES, 

FILLINGS AND ICINGS 



Layer Cakes 



(To bake twenty-five minutes) 

Use both burners to heat oven ten minutes before placing 
cake in oven. Turn burners out, bake ten minutes with gas out 
and relight front burner, leaving cake in fifteen minutes longer. 
When baking a white layer cake, a very delicate and elusive 
flavor may be obtained by placing two or three rose geranium 
leaves in the bottom of the pan. Remove them when the cake is 
put together. 



RECIPES FOR CAKES— Continued 
Angel Food Cake 

Heat oven as for loaf cake and bake cake for twenty minutes 
with single burner about two-thirds on, when cake should be light. 
Do not open oven door during that time. Then increase heat 
slightly with single burner and bake until cake is a very light 
brown, settles even and rebounds from touch. This should bake 
from forty to fifty minutes. Invert pan when taken from oven 
but do not remove cake until cold. 

The Cake Walk 

"Said the butter to the sugar, 'Will you dance tonight with me, 
'At the cake walk to be given in the Yellow Bowl? 'Twill be 
'The smoothest thing you e'er were in before the evening's end, 
'And the swellest for the Eggs and Baking Powder will attend; 
'Spring Wheat Flour will come also and Sweet Milk, too, will be 

there — 
'She's the cream of all the gath'ring and as rich as she is fair, 
'And both Nutmeg and Vanilla may come as a special favor, 
T hope they will, their presence to the whole thing would add flavor. 
'Tall Granite Spoon will lead us through the dance's mystic maze; 
'He will take us 'round and 'round in a sort of polonaise. 
'It's sure to be exclusive and a very fine affair 
'For only the most proper of ingredients will be there; 
'Yet it's whispered low that later, after the cake walk turn, 
'The party all together to the Oven will adjoin; 
'And if that's true I'll wager a dollar to a dime 
'The whole affair will wind up with a very hot old time." 

Brides Cake 

Cream one-half cupful of butter, and add by degrees one 
and one-half cupfuls of sifted granulated sugar and cream until 
smooth. Measure two cupfuls of sifted flour and sift five times, 
to one-half cup of this add two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
and set aside. To the creamed butter and sugar add one-half 
cupful of milk alternating with the flour; add one-half teaspoon- 
ful of pineapple extract together with a few drops of strawberry. 
Stir and beat well (five to ten minutes). Add flour in which has 
been sifted the baking powder, then lightly add the well beaten 
whites of six eggs. Bake in two layers about twenty-five minutes. 
Put together with marshmallow icing. 

Angel Food 

Measure one cupful sifted flour and sift twelve times and 
measure one and one-half cupsful of sifted granulated sugar and 
sift six times. Add a salt spoon of salt to eleven eggs and whip 
until frothy, add one teaspoon of cream of tartar and whip stiff. 
Add sugar gradually and lightly, then fold in the sifted flour, add 
a teaspoonful of equal parts strawberry, almond and lemon ex- 
tract or any flavoring desired and bakeJn a tube pan. Cover 
with marshmallow icing flavored with a few drops of rose extract. 
Do not grease pan. 



RECIPES FOR CAKES— Continued 
Feather Cake 

Cream three-fourths cup of butter, or two-thirds cup of 
Cottolene with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar. Add two- 
thirds cup of milk alternately with three cupfuls of flour sifted 
with one teaspoonful of salt and three of baking powder (sift 
five times), flavor with one teaspoonful of whiskey and one-half 
teaspoonful each of vanilla, almond and lemon extract. Add 
stiff whites of six large eggs and bake in a loaf. A tube pan is 
preferred. 

Sunshine Cake 

To the yolks of six fresh eggs add one cupful of granulated 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls cold water, one tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, one teaspoonful of vanilla and one salt spoonful of salt and 
beat hard fifteen minutes by the clock. The mixture should be 
light, thick and lemon colored. Add one salt spoonful of salt to 
the whites of the eggs and whip stiff, then cut and fold into the 
egg and sugar mixture. Fold in one cupful of pastry flour which 
has been sifted several times. Bake in ungreased pan slowly 
about forty minutes and cool in pan inverted. Serve as a plain 
cake or with a very sharp knife the cake may be cut into two layers 
and put together with an almond cream filling. The success of 
the cake depends upon the proper beating of the egg and sugar 
mixture and the delicacy of folding in whites of eggs and flour. 
It is delicious and wholesome. If baked in a wood or coal stove 
no wetting is required. 

Mocha Cakes 

Cream one-fourth cupful of butter with three-fourths cup- 
ful of sugar and add two well beaten eggs. Sift one and one-half 
cupfuls of flour with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and add 
to butter and sugar mixture with half a cup of milk. Flavor 
with vanilla or a tablespoonful of strong coffee. Bake in gem 
pans. When cold brush the sides lightly with white of egg which 
has been beaten just enough to spread, and roll in finely ground 
nuts. Make a butter icing by creaming one-fourth cup of butter 
with one cup of powdered sugar, one egg yolk and flavor of strong 
coffee and spread over top of cakes; then cover with ground nuts 
patting on lightly with the hands. Delicious for luncheon or tea. 

Apple Sauce Cake 

Cream three-fourths cup of butter with two scant cupfuls 
of sugar and add two well beaten eggs without separating them. 
Add one tablespoonful of cinnamon and one scant tablespoonful of 
cloves. Beat well. To two cupfuls of apple sauce cooked dry 
add two teaspoonfuls of soda, add this to the first mixture, then 
add three and one-half rounding cupfuls of flour, which has been 
sifted several times, and one cupful of chopped nuts and one 
cupful of seeded and floured raisins. Bake in a greased tube pan 
an hour and a half as you would any loaf cake. No other wetting 
than the apple sauce is needed and the batter should be stiff 
enough to drop from a spoon. 



RECIPES FOR CAKES— Continued 
Marguerites 

Beat the white of one egg very stiff, adding one tablespoon- 

ful of granulated sugar and two of powdered sugar. Add as 

many chopped nuts as the mixture will take, pile on saltine 

wafers and brown lightly in a slow oven. 

Marshmallow Icing 

Boil one cup granulated sugar with one-third cup of water 
until it will spin a thread from the spoon. Have ready eight 
marshmallows cut in fourths, pour into the syrup and pour all 
slowly over the stiffly beaten white of one egg. Flavor with a 
few drops of rose, or strawberry and pineapple, beat until smooth 
and cover cake at once. 

La France Icing 

To one-fourth cup of the juice from Maraschino cherries 
add confectioner's sugar (about one and one-half cups), until 
thick enough to spread, and use at once; cover with finely chopped 
pistachio nuts. 

Chocolate Icing 

Mix three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate with three of 
hot cream and gradually mix into this two cupfuls of confectioner's 
sugar. 

Almond Cream Filling 

Beat the yolks of three eggs and add one tablespoonful of 
pulverized sugar; then add one teaspoonful of corn starch made 
smooth with a little milk. Boil one cupful of sweet cream, stir 
in the first mixture and cook over hot water until thick. Add 
half a pound of almonds, blanched and chopped. Very nice 
filling for sponge cake. 

Marshmallow Filling 

Cut half a pound of marshmallows into small pieces and 
soak them in cream until soft. Drain and beat the mixture 
smooth, adding two tablespoonfuls of sherry or other flavoring. 
Blend lightly with a pint of sweetened whipped cream which is 
firm enough to hold it's shape. Spread between layers of cake 
and on top and sprinkle with crushed crystalized rose leaves or 
finely chopped conserved fruits. 

Lemon Filling 

To one cup of sugar add the grated rind of one and juice 
of two lemons, also two tablespoonfuls of water. Boil about 
five minutes, add two beaten egg yolks and when slightly thickened 
cool and spread between layers of cake. 

Mocha and Burnt Almond Frosting 

Cream one-half a cup of butter with one and one-half cups 
of powdered sugar, and work into this very strong coffee, to spread 
easily. Cover one layer of cake, place the other over it and spread 
frosting over the entire cake. Have ready blanched almonds 
well dried, browned in the oven and chopped fine; sprinkle over 
the cake. Juice of half a lemon adds to the flavor of this frosting. 




PIES AND PUDDINGS 

Pastry 

Have flour and shortening very cold before mixing. Sift 
together three times, one and one-half cups of flour and one-half 
teaspoon of salt; add one-third cup of butter and lard packed to- 
gether, cutting it in with a knife, and add just enough ice water 
to hold it together. Roll out, spread with three teaspoons of 
butter beaten to a cream and fold to make three layers; turn, 
roll out and fold for the third time, put in cloth and place on ice. 
This pastry dough may be kept for a day or two, if kept on ice, 
making it possible to prepare a pie in a very few minutes when 
short of time. 

Lemon Pie Filling 

Moisten two level tablespoons corn starch with one-third 
cup of cold water and use this to thicken one cup boiling water. 
Cook three minutes add one cup sugar, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, the juice of two and grated rind of one lemon. Pour 
over three beaten yolks. Bake in open crust and cover with 
meringue of whites of three eggs and six tablespoons of powdered 
sugar. Brown in slow oven and serve cold. 

Berry Pies 

For barberry, cherry or gooseberry, beat two eggs well for a 
quart of fruit, and beat into them a cup and a half of sugar sifted 
with one-fourth cup of flour. Add a little salt and mix thoroughly 
with the fruit; place in pan lined with pie crust, dot with bits of 
butter, cover and bake. 

Pumpkin Pie a la Whipped Cream 

To each quart of strained pumpkin add while hot two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one quart of milk, two cups sugar, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon 
and one grated nutmeg. Serve covered with whipped cream. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS— Continued 



Steamed Pudding 



Mix together one cup brown sugar, one cup chopped suet, 
one-half cup Orleans molasses, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon cloves, one-half nutmeg grated, one pound of seeded raisins 
and one-half cup nut meats; dissolve one teaspoon of soda and 
one of baking powder in one-half cup of sour milk and add to two 
well beaten eggs. Mix all ingredients together and thicken with 
flour. Steam two and one-half to three hours in baking powder 
cans. Serve with a hot sauce. 



Woodford Pudding 

Cream together one-half cup of butter and one cup of sugar; 
add three well beaten eggs and one-fourth cup of sour milk in 
which has been dissolved one scant teaspoon of soda, alternating 
with three-fourths cup of sifted flour. Add one cup raspberry 
jam and bake slowly in a tube pan. Serve either hot or cold, 
with lemon cream sauce. 



Berry Pudding 



Put two quarts of berries in a baking dish and over the berries 
pour this batter: Sift two heaping teaspoons of baking powder 
with one cup of flour; add a beaten egg to one cup of milk and beat 
in the flour; add one cup of soft butter and bake in a moderate 
oven. Serve hot with cream or a pudding sauce. 



Baked Indian Pudding 

Five large spoons of cornmeal, five large spoons grated 
bread crumbs, one cup Orleans molasses, one teaspoon ginger, 
one quart milk. Scald the milk and pour in the other ingredients 
allowing it to just come to a boil and pour into a deep buttered 
dish. After the pudding is in the oven pour in one cup more of 
cold milk while stirring. After it has baked two hours in a mod- 
erate oven add one cup more of cold milk and bake an hour longer 
Do not stir. Cover with a plate or earthenware dish the last 
hour. Serve with hard sauce. 




RECIPES FOR PUDDING SAUCES 



Lemon Cream Sauce 



Cream one-half cup of butter and one and one-fourth cups 
sugar. Add the grated rind of a lemon and four tablespoons 
lemon juice. Reat thoroughly, heat over hot water and add a 
little nutmeg when ready to serve. 



Hard Sauce 



Cream four tablespoons of butter, add one cup powdered 
sugar, and cream; add beaten white of one egg, one teaspoon 
lemon juice and beat well. Pile lightly in a dish and sprinkle 
with nutmeg. 



Fruit Sauce 



Mix together one cup fruit juice, one-half a cup of sugar 
and one teaspoon of corn starch (made smooth in a little water). 
Roil all together eight minutes; strain and serve hot with hot 
desserts and cold with cold desserts. 



Hot Chocolate Sauce 

To one cup of boiling water add one cup of sugar and a 
stick of cinnamon and boil about five minutes. Dissolve four 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch in one-fourth cup of water, and four 
tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate in one-half cup of milk. Roil 
all together five minutes and serve. 



Seafoam Sauce 

Rub to a smooth cream two tablespoonfuls of butter with 
one cupful of powdered sugar. It should then be beaten to a 
light foamy froth; to this gradually add the stiffly beaten whites 
of two eggs. Have ready one-half cup of scalding cream and 
beat into the foam just before serving. Flavor with vanilla and 
almond extract. Sherry also may be used. 




I 



DAINTY DESSERTS DAINTILY SERVED 

NTO a champagne glass put one heaping table- 
spoon of vanilla ice cream, and over this place one 
tablespoon of orange sherbet. Have in readiness 
sweetened whipped cream and force through pastry tube 
into rosettes over the top of each glass. Sprinkle with 
chopped pistachio nuts, add a Maraschino cherry and 
serve on a dainty plate with a sprig of fern. 
Make individual rose cups of American Beauty rose petals 
secured to a white paper doily with library paste, fill with uncolored 
ice cream of any flavor desired, and serve. 

Make squares or triangles of Long Branch wafers, tied to- 
gether with ribbon a half inch wide, shade of flowers and candles 
being used; lay these forms on a dainty plate on which has been 
laid a paper doily and fill with ice cream or sherbet. This is 
also an attractive way to serve any of the dainty salads. The 
ribbons may be untied by the guests and the wafers eaten with 
the salad. 



Cupid's Butter 



Press the yolks of four hard cooked eggs through a vegetable 
ricer, add gradually to a cup of butter beaten to a cream; then 
add one-third cupful of powdered sugar, a little grated orange peel, 
one teaspoonful of orange juice or a scant teaspoonful of orange 
extract. Fill into a pastry bag with a star tube at the end, and 
press into a serving dish; surround with thin slices of angel cake 
and serve. 



Lemon Sherbet 



Mix together two cupfuls of sugar and the juice of two large 
lemons. Have ice cream container packed in crushed ice and 
salt. Pour in the sugar and lemon mixture, add two and one- 
half pints of milk and one pint of cream; adjust lid and commence 
freezing at once. Turn rapidly for five minutes, packing ice and 
salt well around and over top of container. Continue freezing. 
The mixture should be well frozen in ten to fifteen minutes. Re- 
move dasher, place cork stopper in the lid, pack well and let 
stand to ripen. 



Biscuit Glace 



Beat together until light and lemon colored the yolks of two 
eggs with a scant half cup of sugar. Add one pint of double cream 
which has been wipped stiff and drained, then add the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs. Separate the mixture into three 
quantities; color one part pink with a few drops of fruit coloring 
and flavor with strawberry; color another part green with a few 
drops of spinach green, flavor with pistachio or almond extract. 
Flavor the third quantity which has been left uncolored, with 



DESSERTS— Continued 

one-half teaspoon of pineapple. Turn into a brick ice cream 
mold, one layer upon another, over which lay paraffin paper, cover 
with lid and pack in salt and ice four to six hours. When ready 
to serve, let molds stand two inches in a pan of water merely a 
second. Slip a knife around edge of cream, turn out on a pretty 
serving dish, lay a rose on the dish and serve from the table. 
Slice and serve as you would brick ice cream. You will enjoy 
the pleasure your guests display over this dainty dessert. 

Cranberry Frappe 

Cook one quart of selected cranberries in plenty of water 
untill well done. Rub through a colander, add two cupfuls of 
sugar, juice of one lemon and enough cold water to make three 
and one-half pints. Freeze to the consistency of snow. You may 
prepare the cranberry mixture while getting breakfast and set 
aside to cool. This is exceedingly nice served with turkey. 

Strawberry Mousse 

Whip one pint of double cream very stiff, drain and lightly 
stir in two cups powdered sugar, one-half cup of blanched and 
chopped almonds, one quart of slightly mashed strawberries. 
Pour into mold with a tube, cover with paraffin paper, and after 
lid is on bind the edge with strip of buttered cloth, to prevent 
salt from reaching the cream; then pack in crushed ice and 
salt, let stand four hours or longer. When ready to serve, 
invert on a serving platter, fill cavity with halved sweetened 
berries, and surround with whipped cream slightly sweetened 
and flavored. 

Punch Royal a la Yuletide 

Turn three half-pint glasses of California plum jelly (currant 
jelly if you prefer) into a sauce pan, add one cupful of boiling water, 
and stir until jelly dissolves. When cold add the juice of four 
oranges and three lemons, one small can of grated pineapple, 
the juice from one pint of Maraschino cherries, the cherries cut 
in bits and one cupful of sugar. Freeze to the consistency of 
snow. Serve in glass cups with a sprig of holly tied with a red 
ribbon to the handle of each. 

Pear Parfait 

The most delicious of all pear desserts is a parfait. Stir 
slowly into the well beaten yolks of four eggs one cup of syrup 
drained from preserved pears, one-half cup of sugar, and cook 
over hot water until thick as custard. Remove from the fire 
and beat until cool. Fold in lightly one pint of double cream 
whipped dry; then fold in lightly one cupful of macaroon crumbs, 
pour into a wet mold, cover closely, bind with a buttered cloth and 
pack in crushed ice and salt four hours. Invert on a chilled platter, 
garnish with whipped cream and little mounds of red currant 

jelly. 




"Sweets to the sweet, 

"Doth the maxim declare; 
"But have it made known 

"How the lady fair 
"For herself may prepare 

"A sweetness all her own." 

Cooked Fondant 

To every two measures of granulated sugar use one measure 
of water. It is best to cook only two cups of sugar at a time. 
Dissolve the sugar well before putting over the fire, but do not 
stir while cooking. Boil hard until the syrup will form a soft 
ball when a spoonful is dropped in a glass of ice water. Take 
from the fire and allow it to cool until you can dip your finger 
in it; then beat hard until it creams, using a wooden spoon. 
Turn onto a marble slab (or a biscuit board will do) and knead 
until smooth. Put into a dish, cover with a cloth dipped in cold 
water and wrung dry, and set aside for twenty-four hours. You 
will find this smooth and creamy, and with different flavorings 
and fruit colorings you have a delicious foundation for all nut 
creams and other varieties of candies. 

Chocolate Coating 

Grate half a pound of unsweetened chocolate, add two squares 
of paraffin shaved fine, place in bowl having a round bottom 
and set over a teakettle of boiling water, stirring until the mixture 
is melted. Have fondant molded into creams and dip one at a 
time, and drop them with a dipping fork onto oiled paraffin 
paper. The coating becomes firm at once. 

Strawberry Creams 

Fill a teacup with fondant and set over a teakettle of hot 
water to melt. Flavor with pineapple or lemon juice. And tint 
very delicately with green or pink color paste, or leave the fondant 
uncolored. When thoroughly melted (a teaspoon of hot water 
may be added to facilitate melting), dip large, firm berries, one 
at a time, and set on paraffin paper. They will harden at once. 
These dainties must be eaten soon after being creamed, though 
white grapes and cherries dipped in the same way, are not so 
perishable. Do not stem any of the fruit before dipping. 



MEASURING HINTS 

A cupful of liquid means all the cup will hold. 

A spoonful of liquid means all the spoon will hold. 

Salt, flour, seasoning, spices, butter and all solids are measured 
level. 

To measure a level spoonful, dip the spoon into the dry 
material, taking up a heaping spoonful, then level it off even 
with the edge of the spoon with a knife. 

To measure a part of a spoonful, cut lengthwise of the spoon 
for the half and crosswise for the quarter. 

A teaspoonful of butter melted should be measured before 
melting. 

A teaspoonful of melted butter should be measured after 
being melted. 

Measure a cupful of cream whipped before it is whipped. 

Measure a cupful of whipped cream after it is whipped. 

Always sift flour and powdered sugar before measuring. It 
is well to sift salt, baking powder, spices and soda also before 
measuring. If measured in a solid state before sifting much more 
than the quantity called for will be used. 

Have two glass measuring cups on hand. One for dry, and 
one for wet materials. These cups with fourths marked on one 
side and thirds on the other, may be purchased at any depart- 
ment or hardware store, for five cents each. 

Do not dip measuring cup into flour or sugar, but fill with a 
spoon or scoop, and without shaking it down, mound slightly 
and level it off with a case knife. 

In measuring butter or lard pack solidly into cup or spoon, 
and level with a knife. 

All the recipes in this little book call for level measurements, 
unless otherwise stated. In order to have good results in cooking, 
careful measurements are necessary. The proper combining of 
ingredients is of equal importance with accurate measuring. 
Stirring is the method used in most kinds of cooking, sometimes 
alone and sometimes followed by beating, as in cake-making. 

When a recipe says to "stir" a mixture, it means to stir it 
round and round, widening from center to outside, blending the 
materials. 

"Beating" means turning the ingredients over and over. 
Always let the bowl of the spoon touch the bottom of the mixing 
bowl, bringing the under part to the top and across to the op- 
posite side. Repeat this until all the air cells possible have been 
incorporated with the mixture. 

"Cutting" and "folding in" is done to blend one ingredient 
with another after each has been beaten till light. It is done by 
cutting down from top to bottom with a spoon and then carefully 
and quickly turning over the mixture from the bottom of the 
dish till it comes to the top. Only enough "cutting" and "folding" 
should be done to barely blend the materials without breaking 
the air cells. 



TABLE OF COMPARATIVE PROPORTIONS 

2 cups flour equal one-half pound. 

2 cups liquid equal one pint. 

1 cup liquid equal one gill. 

1 pint milk or water equal one pound. 

1 tablespoonfuls liquid equal one-half cup. 

1 cup solid butter equal one-half pound. 

1 tablespoonful soft butter, rounded, equal one ounce. 

Butter the size of an egg equals two ounces, or one-fourth cup. 

1 pint granulated sugar equals one pound. 

2 cups pulverized sugar equals one pound. 

1M cups powdered sugar equals one-half pound. 
1 heaping tablespoonful of sugar equals one ounce. 

1 pint brown sugar equals thirteen ounces. 

3 cups corn meal equals one pound. 

2 rounding tablespoonfuls flour equal one ounce. 

1 pint finely chopped meat, packed solid equals one pound. 

16 ounces equal one pound. 

1 rounded tablespoonful coffee equals one ounce. 

12 tablespoonfuls dry material equal one cupful. 

9 large or 10 medium sized eggs equal one pound. 




KOOKEKY KRINKLES 

WHICH MRS. NEWLYWED WILL BE GLAD 
TO KNOW 



The whites of eggs will whip more readily if a pinch of salt 
is added to them. 

If the eggs are placed in cold water for a time before being 
broken, they will whip easily. 

To prevent milk or cream from curdling when used in com- 
bination with tomato, add a bit of bicarbonate of soda before 
they are mixed. 

A small quantity of bicarbonate of soda stirred into milk 
or cream, will keep it from souring in hot weather. 

Do not wash meats in water. Wipe them with a damp cloth. 

A well beaten white of egg in which has been beaten a half 
teaspoonful baking powder added to mashed potatoes, whipping 
the potatoes hard before serving, will add to the looks and taste 
of the dish. 

In mixing liquids, add the liquid to the solid by degrees. 
They will blend more easily. 

If the cream seems too thin to whip, try placing the dish con- 
taining it in another dish of cold water, leaving it there until 
well chilled. Then put into a pan of hot water. You will find 
that it will whip without difficulty. Or a drop or two of glycerine 
added to the cream makes it whip readily and does not affect the 
flavor of the cream. 

Always separate the whites and yolks of eggs in cookery, un- 
less the recipe specifically directs otherwise. 

If you do not possess a pecan nut cracker, try soaking the 
pecans over night in cold water. Next morning crack them on 
end, the meats will come out without breaking. 

At all 5 and 10 cent stores paraffin paper may be purchased 
two rolls for 5 cents. Keep it in the kitchen. It serves a hun- 
dred purposes and saves time. 

Paper napkins, which may be purchased for 10 to 20c per 
hundred, are also one of the kitchen economies. Use them in 
draining croquettes, fritters and timbales. 

If salt is put in the flour before it is wet, lumps will be avoided 
in mixing the batter. 



KOOKERY KRINKLES— Continued 

Cream that is too thin to whip may be made to do so by add- 
ing the unbeaten white of an egg before beginning to whip it. 

Plunge the vessel containing burned vegetables or cereals 
into cold water and let it remain for a few minutes before pouring 
the contents into another pan. This will do away almost entirely 
with the disagreeable burned taste. 

The color may be set in any colored cloth by placing the 
garment in a pail of cold water, to which has been added a table- 
spoonful of Epsom salts, and allowed to remain over night. The 
next morning wring the garment and hang, without rinsing, in the 
shade to dry. When dry wash in clean water. A little Epsom 
salts may be added to the rinse water. 

Time settling or deposit from water in a teakettle may be 
gotten rid of entirely by boiling vinegar in the teakettle. The 
lime can be removed without difficulty. 

When taking salad to a picnic supper in the woods, put it in 
a pail and push a small jar, or bottle, rilled with cracked ice into 
the center. This will keep the salad in splendid condition for 
hours. 

Did you know salt hardens the gums, makes the teeth white 
and sweetens the breath. 

Weak and tired eyes are refreshed by bathing them with 
warm water and salt. 

Hemorrhage from tooth pulling is stopped by filling the 
mouth with salt and water. 

Weak ankles should be rubbed with a solution of salt water 
and alcohol. 

The young housekeeper will be filled with grief when she 
discovers her dainty linens marred with fruit stains. She may 
always be sure of white, stainless linen by having a quantity of 
Javelle water on hand. 

Dissolve two pounds of sal soda in two quarts of boiling water. 
In another bowl dissolve one pound of chloride of lime in four 
quarts of cold water. Put them together and set away in jars 
or bottles. To remove stains from linen put one cupful of Javelle 
water with one cupful of fresh water, dip linen for five minutes, 
remove and rinse thoroughly. 

To bleach white goods having colored embroidery, which 
cannot be boiled after washing, put in an old pillow case which 
has been dipped in strong blueing water and thoroughly dried. 
Rinse and dry each article before putting in the pillow case. 
Hang the case with articles in good, strong light for several days. 
They will be perfectly white, and the embroidery will not fade. 




m 



CLEANING DAY 
MADE EASY 



Almost anything -that has come in contact with sticky fly 
paper can be thoroughly cleansed by sponging with kerosene. 
The odor will soon evaporate if the article is exposed to the air 
for a short time. 

Covered furniture that is soiled can be made to look fresh and 
clean if rubbed over with a soft cloth dipped in gasoline. This 
will not harm the most delicate fabric, and the odor will pass 
away when exposed to the air. Do not run any risk, however, 
by using gasoline near the fire. 

Oxalic acid and Javelle water are excellent for removing 
ink stains. * 

Boil pots and pans in water and washing soda. 

If towel racks in kitchen and bath room are not nickeled, 
paint them with at least two coats of white enamel paint, to avoid 
the possibility of iron rust spots as well as for general cleanliness. 

All kitchen and pantry shelves should be painted, both top, 
and bottom, and if white enamel paint is used, paper can be 
dispensed with. 

You will find coal oil an excellent cleaning agent. Use a 
cloth moistened with it to clean your stained floors, woodwork, 
porcelain bath tub, and lavatory. . 

If the>wh,ite porcelain of the sink becomes stained, wet and 
sprinkle chloride of lime into it. Let stand about half an hour 
and it will come white. 

Equal parts of turpentine, boiled linseed oil and vinegar 
make an excellent preparation for polishing furniture. 

Turpentine and bees wax to the consistency of thin cream 
makes a fine polish for leather upholstered furniture. 

Go to your hardware merchant friend, who speaks to you 
from these pages^ and purchase a dish drainer. Wash your 
dishes, place in drainer, and pour scalding water over them; 
let them set till dry; you will be surprised how clean they will 
be. It saves time too. 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 515 948 9 # 



