HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK BOSTON CHICAGO 
SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED 

LONDON BOMBAY CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

TORONTO 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



BY 






ISABEL McISAAC 

AUTHOR OF "PRIMARY NURSING TECHNIQUE" 

GRADUATE OF THE ILLINOIS TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES J FORMERLY SUPM- 
INTENDENT OF THE ILLINOIS TRAINING SCHOOL FOK NURSES? HONORARY 
MEMBER OF THE BRITISH MATRONS' COUNCIL; CHARTER MEMBER OF THE 
NURSES' ASSOCIATED ALUMNA OF THE UNITED STATES? MEMBER OF 
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY OF SUPERINTENDENTS OF TRAINING 
SCHOOLS FOR NURSES? A COLLABORATOR OF THE AMERI- 
CAN JOURNAL OF NURSING; A TRUSTEE OF MERCY 

HOSPITAL, BENTON HARBOR, MICHIGAN 




gorft 
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

1916 

All rights reserved 



COPYRIGHT, 1908, 
BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published August, 1908. Reprinted 
August, 1910; November, 1911; October, 1912 ; October, 1913; 
June, December, 1914; July, 1915; January, July, October, 1916. 



NorioootJ 

J. 8. Gushing Co. Berwick & Smith Co. 
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



So 

THE MEMORY OF MY FIRST AND BEST 

TEACHER OF HYGIENE 
MY DEAR MOTHER 



ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT is hereby made with thanks to 
the following publishers for their courtesy in granting 
especial permission to make quotations: Lea and Fe- 
biger, publishers of Practical Hygiene by Charles Har- 
rington, M.D., and Hygiene and Sanitation by Seneca 
Egbert, A.M.,M.D.; W. B. Saunders and Co., pub- 
lishers of The Principles of Hygiene by D. H. Bergey, 
A.M.,M.D., and The Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases 
by A. C. Abbott, M.D. ; and to D. Appleton and Co., 
publishers of Practical Dietetics by W. Oilman Thomp- 
son, M.D. Copyright 1895, 1902, 1905. 

CRANFORD FARM, June, 1908. 



rii 






PREFACE FOR TEACHERS 

THE object of this compilation is to secure for the 
young nurse a text-book on hygiene which shall be 
practical and within the range of her daily work. The 
standard works upon the subject are written for 
medical students and practitioners, and embrace an 
immense amount of information beyond the compre- 
hension of the young pupil nurse, but which she may 
read and study with profit when she is ready for it, 
the writer believing that the first-year nurse should be 
taught what she can assimilate and use, and not what 
her teachers may wish her to know on a subject when 
she graduates. 

Necessarily many things are omitted, subjects, such 
as the effect of cooking upon food, which are taught 
elsewhere, and which every good teacher will teach in 
their proper relation to hygiene. 

A considerable number of quotations are given, for 
two purposes: first to cite the authority of statements, 
and second to assist in establishing the early habit in 
young nurses of looking up references., which they are 
not inclined to do without help. 

A number of authorities have been consulted, and out 
of the suggestions embodied in their writings the com- 
piler has endeavored to embrace in this manual what is 
essential to the nurse as a beginner. 

In the following outline for more advanced pupils 
the hygiene of venereal diseases has been stated in 
greater detail than the other subjects, as the topic is 



X PREFACE FOB TEACHERS 

one which heretofore has been systematically avoided 
in most schools for nurses. 

The revelations of the American Society of Sanitary 
and Moral Prophylaxis have brought teachers of nurses 
as well as the public at large to a strong realizing sense 
of the need of better instruction to nurses, not only for 
the protection of their patients, but for themselves. 

SUPPLEMENTARY WORK FOR MORE ADVANCED 
PUPILS 

1. Hygiene of Venereal Diseases : 
Gonorrhoea. Syphilis. 
Definitions. 
Symptoms. 
Dissemination. 
Modes of infection. 
Prophylaxis. 
State control. 
Instruction to parents. 
Instruction to children. 
Instruction to young men and women. 
Protection of nurses. 

Four lectures, each followed by a quiz. 

References : 

Abbott's Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases, p. 166. 

Venereal Prophylaxis, by Marion Craig Potter, M.D., Amer- 
ican Journal of Nursing, February and March, 1907. 

Transactions of the American Society of Sanitary and Moral 
Prophylaxis for 1906. 

The Renewal of Life, by Miss Margaret W. Wooley. A 
popular explanation of the process of reproduction in 
plants and animals, designed for the assistance of parents 
and teachers in giving instruction to children. 

The following subjects for further study may be carried out 
very profitably by assigning them two or three months in advance, 
requiring formal papers prepared, which shall be read by the 



PREFACE FOR TEACHERS XI 

writers and discussed by the class. Blackboard illustrations, 
charts, photographs, and stereopticon illustrations should be pro- 
vided. Pupils should be required to cite all authorities consulted, 
and the class should take notes for later examination. 

2. Systems of Water Supply in : 

Rome. 
New York. 
Quebec. 
Chicago. 

These cities afford an excellent variety, as the sources of 
supply are widely different. 
Four papers. 

3. Sewage and Garbage : 

Constantinople. 

Havana before the American occupation. 

New York. 

Chicago. 

Small towns. 

Country. 

Four papers. 

4. Food supply of large cities. 
Pure food laws : 

Federal. 

State and Municipal. 

Methods of Union Stock Yards, Chicago. 

Cold storage. 

Methods of transporting perishable food. 

Jewish food regulations. 

Four or five papers. 

5. Building ordinances: 

Protection against fire, and other safeguards. 
Air space in factories, etc. 
Water supply. 
Toilet conveniences. 
Elevators. 

Special study in reference to hospitals. 
Three papers. 



xii PREFACE FOB TEACHERS 

6. Quarantine Laws: 

National. 
State. 
City. 

House and room. 
Disposal of the dead : 
Cremation. 
Burial. 
At sea. 

Dead from infectious diseases. 
Transportation. 
Coroners' cases. 

Three papers. 

7. The Work of the Anti-tuberculosis League. 

8. Military and Naval Hygiene. 

The following standard works upon Hygiene are especially 
recommended to the senior nurses in preparing these papers : 

Practical Hygiene. By Charles Harrington, M.D. 
Hygiene and Sanitation. By Seneca Egbert, A.M., M.D. 
The Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases. By A. C. Abbott, M.D. 
The Principles of Hygiene. By D. H. Bergey, A.M., M.D. 
Practical Dietetics. By W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAOX 

PREFACE FOR TEACHERS ix 

CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTION 1 

CHAPTER II 

FOOD: COMPOSITION. SECTION I 3 

VARIETIES. SECTION II 9 

VARIETIES (Continued}. SECTION III .... 16 

PRESERVATION. ADULTERATION. SECTION IV. . . 24 

CHAPTER III 

Am: COMPOSITION. SECTION I 53 

CLIMATE. VENTILATION. SECTION II . . . .62 
HEATING. LIGHTING. SECTION HI .... 69 

CHAPTER IV 
SOIL. WATER 75 

CHAPTER V 
SEWAGE. GARBAGE 89 

CHAPTER VI 
CAUSES AND DISSEMINATION OF DISEASE .... 101 

CHAPTER VII 

PERSONAL HYGIENE 110 

xiii 



XIV TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CHAPTER VDI 
HOUSEHOLD HYGIENE 117 

CHAPTER IX 

SCHOOL HYGIENE. SECTION I 125 

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS. SECTION II . . 134 

CHAPTER X 

HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION. SECTION I .... 162 
EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. SECTION II 169 

CHAPTER XI 
DISINFECTION 188 

CHAPTER XII 
QUARANTINE 199 

INDEX . 203 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION 

THE increasing knowledge of the importance of the 
prevention of disease makes the study of hygiene and 
sanitation one of the most valuable factors in the educa- 
tion of nurses, who may by their understanding of the 
conditions which preserve health or cause disease, render 
as effective assistance in the prevention as in the cure 
of the manifold ills which afflict mankind. 

In the nursing care given to every patient, no matter 
how trivial his ailment, as much or more time is devoted 
to protecting him from further or other ills, than is 
given to the care intended for his cure. If he cuts 
his finger, the principal care is to avoid infection; the 
cut itself may be of no great importance, but the infec- 
tion of the cut may be vital. 

In nursing typhoid fever the minutest details are 
carried out to prevent the patient from reinfecting 
himself, and from becoming a source of infection to 
his neighbor; therefore we may truthfully say, that 
nursing is very largely the practice of hygiene and sani- 
tation. 

The range of hygiene has become so enormously in- 
creased and complex, that it is a part of every branch 
of medical science. It lies with the scientist to investi- 
gate and expound the principles of hygiene, but its daily 
practice, which is the foundation upon which the health 



2 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

of a community largely depends, must necessarily be 
relegated to the women of the household or hospital 
to carry out. 

Men may provide pure Water systems, good sewerage, 
clean streets and laws to govern them, but beyond that 
their control of hygienic conditions is limited, and it is 
upon the women we must depend for the wholesome 
food and surroundings which stand for good health. 

Pure water and good drainage will not insure a house- 
hold nor hospital against epidemics, which harbor dirty 
ice boxes, cellars stored with decaying fruit and vege- 
tables, dirty kitchen sinks, drains, bath tubs, and water- 
closets, unclean beds, unwashed bodies and clothing, 
bad ventilation and food, and rooms crowded with use- 
less decorations covered with dust. 

The keynote of good health is cleanliness of person 
and surroundings, while the chief cause of disease is 
filth. The young nurse beginning the study of hygiene 
cannot fail to realize as she undertakes each subject of 
air, water, food, etc., that cleanliness is the most impor- 
tant phase of every topic. The consideration of cleanli- 
ness may be carried to such an extreme, that one may 
become a slave to the details of living in order to secure 
it, but for one illy balanced person thus in bondage, 
there are millions of lives sacrificed because of unclean 
habitations; nor is it all in the tenements of the poor 
that such filth exists, it may be found in many high 
places where the excuse of poverty and ignorance does 
not exist. 

Every woman who receives the training of a nurse 
should feel in duty bound, not only to practice cleanliness, 
but to teach it as well. 



CHAPTER II 

SECTION I 
FOOD 

PREPARATORY READING : Anatomy for Nurses, Kimber, Chap- 
ters XIII, XIV, XV. 

FOOD supplies the needs of the human body in five 
ways : 

" 1. It is used to form all the tissues of the body. 

" 2. It is used to repair the waste of all the tissues. 

" 3. It is stored in the body for future use. 

" 4. It is consumed as fuel to maintain the constant 
temperature which the body must always possess in 
a state of health. 

"5. It produces muscular and nervous energy." 
(At water.) 

Composition of Food. Food is usually divided chem- 
ically into 1. Proteids and albuminoids; 2. Carbohy- 
drates; 3. Hydrocarbons or fats; 4. Salts, extractives, 
etc. 

Each group has its own office in the body and all are 
necessary in due proportion for the nutrition of the body, 
although in time of need any one of the divisions may 
supply for either of the others temporarily. 

" In general it may be said that the carbohydrates are 
used for the production of force, and that the r ats are 

3 



4 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

stored in the body and used as fuel. The proteids 
do all that can be done by the fats and carbohydrates 
and in addition form the basis of blood, muscles, and all 
the connective tissues." (Kimber.) 

The proteids are the most important constituent of 
both animal and vegetable foods, and between the two 
classes there is little chemical difference, their nutritive 
value being about equal. They are present in variable 
amounts in all vegetable and animal tissue. 

Taken in excess they cause diarrhoea and albuminuria 
(albumin in the urine), while a deficiency will cause loss 
of strength and greatly lessened resistance to disease. 

The fats are found in both animal and vegetable foods 
such as the fat of meats, of milk, olive oil, and cotton seed 
oil. 

The carbohydrates include the starches, sugars, and 
cellulose, being found most plentifully in the cereals, 
as wheat, oats, rye, barley, corn, in the legumes, as peas 
and beans, and in the various root foods, as potatoes. 

The carbohydrates lessen the desire for fats and taken 
in excess cause a great increase of fatty tissue in the body, 
and produce indigestion. 

Certain organic acids are found in foods and are a 
necessary constituent for nutrition; their exclusion 
causing scurvy. The two most important acids are 
citric and tartaric, the former found in lemons and 
oranges, and the latter mostly in grapes; lactic acid is 
found in milk; oxalic acid is found in spinach, tomatoes, 
strawberries, and rhubarb; acetic acid is the acid of 
vinegar; malic acid is found in apples, pears, and some 
other fruits. 

The mineral elements of food include water, the chlo- 



FOOD 5 

rides, phosphates, sulphates, and other salts of sodium, 
potassium, and magnesium, besides some of the com- 
pounds of iron. 

Chloride of sodium (common salt) is the most impor- 
tant, and deprived of it there is loss of weight of the body. 
The phosphates are necessary for the growth of bone, and 
to the nervous system ; iron is needed for the haemoglobin 
in the blood; deficiency of calcium and magnesium 
causes rickets. 

Two thirds of the weight of the body is made up of 
water, and in consequence large quantities of fluid must 
be taken daily to take the place of that lost by the 
excretions. 

A certain amount is necessarily taken in all forms of 
food and beverages such as tea, coffee, milk, and the 
alcoholic or non-alcoholic drinks, three quarts daily 
being required for an adult, more in hot weather or when 
engaged in hard labor. An excess of cold water taken 
with meals impairs digestion, but the effects of a de- 
ficiency of fluid are much more serious, inducing dis- 
orders of the kidneys and bladder. 

The reserve forces of the body are stored in the form 
of glycogen and fatty tissue. 

Some of the end-products of carbohydrate digestion 
are reconverted in the liver into glycogen, which is given 
out for heat and energy during the intervals between 
eating. Fothergill says, " The liver stores up from each 
meal so much glycogen, giving it off as required; other- 
wise life would be one long, dreary meal." 

The fatty tissue is less available, and is called upon 
during prolonged deprivation from food. 

" The potential energy of any food is measured by the 



6 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

amount of heat which can be obtained by its complete 
combustion, and is expressed in units or calories. . . . 

" The amount of energy required to raise the tempera- 
ture of a pound of water 1 F. has as a mechanical 
equivalent 772 units of work; that is to say, the same 
amount of energy will raise 772 pounds 1 foot." l 

The combustion of carbohydrates and fats in the bo'dy 
is complete, but the proteids leave a residue of urea. 

The amount of food necessary varies with the indi- 
vidual, the occupation, and the climate. In planning 
any dietary, not only the nutritive value but variety 
and individual taste need consideration; otherwise the 
appetite becomes impaired. 

The constituents of the standard diets have been 
modified by the results of recent researches. 

One writer says that the " American working man 
requires four ounces of proteids, two ounces of fats, and 
eighteen ounces of carbohydrates," which seems to be 
the proportion and quantities generally accepted by the 
best authorities. 

In modifying the quantity to suit the individual it is 
essential that the proportion of 1 part nitrogen to 15 
parts of carbon be maintained. 

The amount of water needed varies from 70 to 100 
fluid ounces daily, according to the climate, season, 
amount of work or exercise, and activity of the skin and 
kidneys. 

The digestibility of food depends upon its nature, 
texture, hardness, and chemistry, as well as upon the 
quantity, whether mixed with other foods, thoroughness 
of mastication, and upon the condition of the digestive 

1 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



FOOD 7 

organs of the individual. Animal food is considered 
somewhat more digestible than vegetable; the fat of 
meats less digestible than the lean, and the sugar and 
starch of vegetables capable of complete digestion when 
properly cooked. 

Many years ago a Canadian workman named Alexis 
St. Martin received an injury to the stomach which 
would usually have proved fatal, but the man recovered, 
with an opening into the stomach which enabled Dr. 
Beaumont to make a series of experiments and observa- 
tions upon the process of digestion, which have been of 
remarkable value. 

It should be taken into consideration that the process of 
digestion, however, does not all take place in the stomach. 

Dr. Beaumont's list of foods is arranged in the order 
of their digestibility as follows : " Rice, tripe, whipped 
eggs, sago, tapioca, barley, boiled milk, raw eggs, lamb, 
parsnips, roasted and baked potatoes, and fricasseed 
chicken are most easily digested in the order given 
the rice disappearing from the stomach in one hour, and 
the fricasseed chicken in two and three-fourths hours. 

" Beef, mutton, pork, oysters, butter, bread, veal, 
boiled and roasted fowls are rather less digestible 
roast beef disappearing from the stomach in three hours 
and roast fowl in four hours. Salted beef and pork 
disappear in four and a quarter hours." 

Chambers' list of the digestibility of foods is as fol- 
lows : " Roast mutton, sweetbread, boiled chicken, 
venison, soft-boiled eggs, new toasted cheese, roast fowl, 
turkey, partridge and pheasant, lamb, wild duck, oys- 
ters, periwinkles, omelette, tripe, boiled sole, haddock, 
skate, trout, perch, roast beef, boiled beef, rump steak, 



8 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

roast veal, boiled veal, rabbit, salmon, mackerel, herring, 
pilchard, sprat, hard-boiled and fried eggs, pigeon, hare, 
duck, goose, fried fish, roast arid boiled pork, heart, 
liver, kidneys, lobster, salted fish, crab." 

The Necessity for a Mixed Diet. It is conceded by 
the best authorities that a mixed diet is an absolute 
necessity for man. 

While there is no doubt that a large number of per- 
sons suffer from an excess of animal food, observation 
proves that people who live upon a strictly vegetable 
diet " if required to exert themselves in any unusual 
way when food is deficient, they simply die. The reason 
is evident they have been living upon their own tissues, 
and the small quantity of albuminous matter in grain 
is a long time in building them up again, so that for weeks 
or even months their muscles are in a state of atrophy." 
(Chambers.) 

The Chinese and Japanese are often cited as proof to 
the contrary, but in both instances while living prin- 
cipally upon rice, their diet is supplemented by eggs, 
fish, pork, and chicken. 

Thompson writes, " Attempts have from time to time 
been made for economic reasons to furnish large bodies 
of laboring men with a purely vegetable diet; but this 
diet is found to defeat its own ends, in that the maxi- 
mum of labor cannot be maintained by men who are 
fed exclusively on vegetable food, although some carbo- 
hydrates are necessary. It gradually induces a condition 
of muscular weakness and languor with disinclination 
for either physical or mental work. . . . 

" A man cannot perform more actual muscular labor 
1 Practical Dietetics, Thompson. 



FOOD 9 

upon an exclusive diet of animal food than of starchy 
food. He requires abundant animal food to replace 
the general wear and tear of muscular tissue, but the 
energy for muscular contraction is not derived from nitrog- 
enous food, but from carbohydrates, the former being 
used to keep the muscles in a healthful state of equilib- 
rium. He who is physically feeble and who lacks mus- 
cular power cannot restore that power by an exclusive 
nitrogenous diet. A man fed upon nitrogenous diet 
without vegetable food may not work as well in daily 
labor as when given a fair proportion of the latter; but 
on the other hand he is better fitted for sudden arduous 
exertion than are exclusive vegetable feeders. 

" A mixed diet therefore is the only rational one for 
man." 

SECTION II 

Varieties of Food. Animal foods. The flesh of the 
herbivorous animals, domestic and wild fowls, eggs, fish, 
and milk and its products are the sources from which 
men derive animal food. Except fish, the flesh of car- 
nivorous animals is unpalatable, although in time of need 
the flesh of horses and dogs and even cats is consumed. 

In France and Germany the flesh of horses and dogs 
may be seen in many markets because of the high 
prices of other meats. 

During the siege of Paris in the Franco-Prussian war 
it is said that a thousand dogs and five thousand cats were 
eaten after the food supply became nearly exhausted. 

The nutritive value of meat is due to the presence of 
the proteids, fats, and mineral salts, the carbohydrates 
existing only in very insignificant quantities. All meat 



10 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

contains some fat, the greater the amount the large* 
its nutritive value. Pork usually contains a much greater 
proportion of fat than beef, while veal and fowls have 
comparatively little. 

The flesh of young animals is more tender and there- 
fore more easily digested. Raw meat is more easily 
digested than cooked meat. 

Meat which has been properly roasted or broiled is 
more easily digested than when boiled or fried. Except 
in individual cases beef is the easiest of digestion and pork 
the most difficult owing to its large proportion of fat. 

With veal its digestibility varies greatly with the in- 
dividual, some persons digesting it easily and others with 
the greatest difficulty. The white meat of fowls is more 
digestible than the dark. Ducks and geese are more 
difficult to digest than other fowls, while wild fowls 
are more easily digested than domestic. Sweetbreads 
are easily digested, while liver, kidneys, and heart can- 
not be digested by persons with faulty digestion. The 
red meats (beef, mutton, and venison) are often pro- 
hibited to rheumatic patients, and less often for those 
suffering from disorders of the stomach or kidneys or 
from nervous troubles; the white meats (veal, chicken, 
and young pig) and fish only being allowed, it being sup- 
posed that the red meats contain a larger amount of 
nitrogenous substance and are irritating to the kidneys. 

Diseased Meat. Egbert l states that the following 
meats should not be eaten : " 1. The flesh of all animals 
dead of internal diseases, or which have been killed while 
suffering from such diseases, or animals killed by over- 
driving. 2. The flesh of animals with contagious dis- 

1 Hygiene and Sanitation, Egbert. 



FOOD 11 

eases that may be transmitted to man. 3. The flesh 
of animals that have been poisoned. 4. The flesh of 
animals with severe infectious diseases as pyaemia, etc. 
5. Flesh that contains parasites that may be transmitted 
to man. 6. All putrid flesh." 

The diseases common in cattle which render them 
unfit for food are tuberculosis, pleuro-pneumonia, foot- 
and-mouth disease, anthrax, Texas cattle fever, and 
actinomycosis. In pigs the diseases are hog-cholera, 
tuberculosis, Trichina spiralis, anthrax, muco-enteritis, 
measles, and Cysticercus cellulosa. 

Meat Inspection. The inspection of meat differs 
greatly in different countries. In the United States the 
inspection is mostly under the Federal authorities, much 
of it being done in Chicago and Omaha, the great meat 
markets of the world. This, however, does not cover 
the quantities of meat consumed in the small towns and 
villages where the supply is local, and there can be no 
doubt but large amounts of diseased meats are eaten 
daily in all parts of the country. The inspection of 
meat is made both before and after the slaughtering of 
the animal, and includes observations upon the amount 
and condition of the fat, the consistency, color, and odor 
of the muscles, the condition of the bone marrow, lungs, 
kidneys, liver, spleen, and lymphatic glands. 

The internal organs are examined for tumors, para- 
sites, or suppuration, and the microscopical examina- 
tions are made principally for the detection of parasites 
such as trichina. 

Evidences of tuberculosis are found in the lungs, 
pleura, or some of the lymphatic glands. 

In the United States, as well as in most foreign coun- 



12 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

tries, the meat of tubercular animals is sold without anj 
declaration as to its nature as wholesome meat when the 
disease is localized. 

Thorough cooking will destroy any parasites or disease 
germs contained in diseased meat. 

Meat and Fish Poisoning. Some of the putrefactive 
changes in meat and fish produce toxins (poisons) and 
ptomaines (poisons produced by bacteria) which cause 
the cases of meat and fish poisoning in man. These 
cases arise more frequently from canned meats and fish 
than from fresh food. Unlike the parasites these toxins 
are not destroyed by cooking. Harrington cites the case 
recorded by Panum, " who found that the poison of 
certain putrid meat retained its activity even after it had 
been boiled 11 hours." It is found that it is not the ex- 
tent of the putrefaction which determines the gravity of 
the poison, but the nature of the bacteria which have 
caused the change in the meat ; some of the most violent 
cases of poisoning are recorded when the meat showed 
neither by look nor odor that putrefaction had begun, 
and on the other hand some meats in the advanced stage 
of decay were found harmless. 

Transmission of Diseases by Meat and Fish. Harring- 
ton says that, 1 " Concerning the possibility of transmis- 
sion of tuberculosis by eating diseased meat there is 
practically no evidence of value, but whatever danger 
there is, if any at all, is disposed of by thorough cooking, 
since thereby the bacillus is quickly killed." 

Three different kinds of tapeworm have been found 
to have been taken by man with imperfectly cooked 
meat and fish. 

1 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



FOOD 13 

The disease due to Trichina spiralis which is found 
only in pork, occurs very commonly in Germany where 
the practice of eating meats which have only been 
smoked or not cooked at all, is more frequent than in 
America. 

Fatal infections through abrasions of the skin are not 
uncommon among those who handle the flesh of cattle 
dead from anthrax and some other diseases. 

Numerous epidemics and individual cases of typhoid 
fever have been traced to oysters taken from water which 
had been contaminated with sewage. 

Milk. Milk is one of the most important foods as 
it contains all of the essential elements which go to make 
a complete food. 

However, milk is such a gocd culture-medium that it 
is invaded by bacteria of all kinds," and speedily becomes 
a source of danger unless handled with the greatest care. 

The bacteria found in milk may come from a diseased 
cow, an unclean cow in unclean surroundings, filthy 
methods of milking, or dirty utensils, or impure water. 

To obtain pure milk it is therefore essential that the 
cow should be clean and healthy, the milker of cleanly 
habits, and all utensils kept perfectly clean. 

The thickening or souring of milk is due to certain 
bacteria which produce lactic acid; while other bacteria 
cause the milk to decompose before it sours. If bac- 
teria were not present milk would remain sweet indefi- 
nitely. 

The bacteria of disease such as tuberculosis may 
come from the cow or have been conveyed to the milk. 

The transmission of tuberculosis to man by means 
of infected milk is still open to some doubt, but there 



14 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

seems to be enough evidence to warrant the prohibition 
of selling milk from tubercular cows. 

Cows often have a condition known as garget, an in- 
flammation of the udder; milk from a cow thus afflicted 
causes intestinal disorders in infants and young children. 

The most common diseases conveyed by milk are not, 
however, derived from the cow, but are due to the lack 
of cleanliness, or to bacteria conveyed to the milk by 
flies or other insects, or by vermin, or by the use of pol- 
luted water. These diseases are typhoid fever, diph- 
theria, scarlet fever, and cholera. 

Numerous epidemics have been traced directly to the 
dairyman or some other dealers who have handled the 
milk before it reached the consumer. 

Cases of milk poisoning, many of them fatal, are due 
to the presence of certain bacteria which are found in 
unclean milk, or milk cans, or ice-cream freezers. 

The most important disease produced in this way is 
" cholera infantum, so common among infants who feed 
upon cow's milk in warm weather. It is easy to under- 
stand the nature of this disease when we remember the 
great number of bacteria in milk, especially in hot weather, 
and when we remember that the delicate organism of the 
infant will be thrown at once into disorder by slight 
amounts of poison which would have no appreciable effect 
upon the stronger adult. We can easily understand, 
further, how the disease readily yields to treatment if 
care is taken to sterilize the milk given to the patient." 
(Professor Conn.) 

Any utensils used for storing milk should not be used 
for other purposes ; they should be rinsed in cold water, 
scrubbed vigorously in hot soapsuds, scalded in clear, 



FOOD 15 

boiling water, wiped with clean, dry towels, and be kept 
standing upside down. 

The use of preservatives in milk, such as salicylic acid, 
boracic acid, and formaldehyde, is forbidden by the 
laws of many states and cities, as they are detrimental 
to health. 

The regulations regarding milk have greatly improved 
in cities in recent years, but much more needs to be done, 
especially in the country. 

Cream is the fat of milk which rises to the surface 
upon cooling; and after separation from the milk is 
turned to butter by agitation. 

Cream is a most agreeable and wholesome form of 
fat. It is sometimes substituted for cod-liver oil for 
tubercular patients, and is an important article of diet, 
when it is borne well, for the long-continued wasting 
diseases. The addition of limewater will often render 
cream more digestible. 

Cheese is one of the products of milk which has been 
used for ages as an important article of food. It is made 
from the curds of cows' or goats' milk, and may be made 
from skimmed milk, the whole milk, or by the use of 
whole milk and cream. Cheese, like veal, may be easily 
digested by some individuals, and be highly indigestible 
to others. 

Cheese poisoning is not unknown, caused by the action 
of certain bacteria which also invade milk, cream, and 
butter. 

Fish as an article of diet vary in nutritive value and 
digestibility; eels, herring, and salmon contain the 
largest amount of fat, and consequently are the most 
nutritious, but are much less digestible than sole, 



16 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

flounders, or whiting. Pavy says that, " the whiting is the 
most delicate, tender, and easy of digestion of all fish." 

Salted fish are less easy to digest than fresh fish. 

Fish should always be eaten when perfectly fresh, the 
best test of freshness being the bright redness of the gills 
and the fullness of the eye. 

Fish is often allowed to patients with Bright's disease 
and other disorders, when meat is forbidden. 

The poison arising from decomposing fish is more 
violent and more often fatal than similar cases of meat 
poisoning. 

There are some individuals who cannot eat fish of 
any kind without symptoms of poisoning, and others 
who must avoid only certain kinds, like shellfish which 
produce skin disorders such as urticaria (hives). 

Lobsters, crabs, clams, shrimps, and oysters afford a 
wholesome diet when perfectly fresh. 

SECTION III 

The Vegetable Foods. The cereals wheat, rye, barley, 
oats, corn, and rice are among the most important 
foods; all .contain some proteids, a large proportion of 
carbohydrates, some fat, and phosphates. 

Wheat contains the largest percentage of proteid 
material, and rice the least. 

The large percentage of protein contained in the 
legumes peas and beans renders them a valuable 
source of nitrogenous food as they are both inexpensive. 

The grinding breaks up the grain and starch granules, 
separates the indigestible parts, and renders the starch 
suitable for cooking. 



FOOD 

Composition of the Cereals 



17 



Cereal 


No. of 
analyses 


Nitroge- 
nous 
sub- 
stances 


Fat 


Nitrogen- 
free 
extract- 
ives 


Cellu- 
lose 


Ash 


Nitro- 
gen 


Wheat 
Rye, winter 
Barley 
Oats 
Corn, flint 
Rice 


1358 
173 
766 
377 
80 
10 


Per ct. 
13.89 
12.48 

11.24 
12.13 
11.74 
7.00 


Per ct. 
2.20 

1.77 
1.93 
4.99 

4.78 
2.00 


Per ct. 
79.75 

81.04 
77.24 
66.41 
79.20 

84.76 


Per ct. 
2.19 

1.78 
4.95 
10.58 
1.67 
4.00 


Per ct. 
1.97 
2.06 

2.42 
3.29 
1.40 
1.16 


Per ct. 

2.22 
2.00 
1.79 
1.94 

1.88 
1.12 



Composition of the Leguminosce 







Nitroge- 




Nitrogen- 










No. of 
analyses 


nous 
sub- 


Fat 


fret 
extract- 


Cellu- 
lose 


Ash 


Nitro- 
gen 






stances 




ives 












Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Beans 


63 


29.26 


1.68 


55.86 


8.06 


3.13 


4.68 


Peas 


72 


26.39 


1.39 


61.21 


5.68 


2.68 


4.30 



Flour ground by the old process is softer and smoother 
than by the new roller-process. 

Wheat flour should not be too white, as that shows a 
lack of gluten. " Good flour holds together in a mass 
when squeezed by the hand, and retains the impressions 
of the fingers, and even the marks of the skin much longer 
than poor flour; when made into a dough it is elastic, 
easy to be kneaded, will stay in a round puffy shape, and 
will take up a large amount of water, 2 while poor flour 
will be sticky, flatten or spread itself over the board, and 
will never seem stiff enough to be handled no matter 
how much flour is used." 3 

1 Principles of Hygiene, Bergey. 

3 One third of its bulk is the rule for bread. 

3 Boston Cook Book. Mrs. Lincoln. 



18 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Flour of any kind should be kept in a dry place. 

Besides white flour, Graham flour and entire wheat 
flour are made from wheat. Graham flour contains the 
entire grain, even the outside husk, while entire wheat 
flour contains all but the husk. 

" Parenthetically, it may not be out of place to refer 
here to the absurd views maintained by a large part of 
the community as to the superiority from a hygienic 
standpoint of foods containing all of the constituents of 
the cereals from which they are prepared. It is difficult 
to understand how the nutritive value of any food can 
be increased by the retention of matters which are com- 
pletely indigestible, and to a certain extent irritating to 
the digestive tract. It is argued that an all-wise Crea- 
tor made wheat, for example, in the form in which w r e see 
it, and that it is not for us to attempt to improve it as 
we think by discarding the outer layers. But this sort 
of reasoning might be extended so as to favor the con- 
sumption of the peel of oranges, the bones of fish, the 
feathers of birds, and other innutritious and undesirable 
waste products." * 

Bread. Bread is one of the most important forms 
of food, and is the most generally used food known. 
Wheat, being the most nutritious cereal and containing 
gluten, is the best adapted to bread making. 

Bread contains flour, water, and salt, although its 
flavor and nutritive value are improved by the addition 
of sugar, milk, and butter. Well-made bread containing 
a small amount of fat is nearly a complete food in itself, 
hence the name " the staff of life." 

To render bread " light" and digestible yeast is added 

1 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



FOOD 19 

to the other ingredients, the whole being kept in a tem- 
perature about 70 F. for several hours. The yeast acts 
upon the sugar and converts it into alcohol and carbonic 
acid gas, the latter by its expansion. causing the bread 
to become porous and "rise." 

If this process of fermentation is incomplete, the bread 
is heavy, and if continued too long the bread " sours" 
from the formation of lactic and acetic acids. 

Good bread should be white, sweet, and spongy, with 
a tender crust. 

Bread is more easily digested after twenty-four hours 
old. 

Bread may acquire unwholesome properties by im- 
proper care. It should be, removed from the tins and 
cooled upon a rack that the air may circulate upon all 
sides of the loaves. It should be kept in a closely cov- 
ered earthen jar which should be used for no other pur- 
pose, and be washed and scalded between each baking. 
Damp, moldy bread may cause serious digestive dis- 
turbances. 

Baking Powders. In lieu of yeast, a variety of baking 
powders are used to " leaven" different kinds of bread, 
rolls, biscuit, griddle cakes, cookies, and other sweet 
cakes. 

Many cooks make their own baking powder by using 
1 part of bicarbonate of soda and 2 parts of cream of 
' tartar, this combination being the basis of the so-called 
" cream of tartar" baking-powders. 

The action of potassium acid tartrate (cream of tar- 
tar) upon sodium bicarbonate liberates carbonic acid 
gas (carbon dioxide). 

The combination of bicarbonate of soda with sour 



20 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

milk is a common and wholesome " leaven/' provided 
the soda is not used in excess, and is thoroughly sifted 
and blended with the dry ingredients before the sour 
milk is added, the amount used being governed by the 
degree of sourness of the milk. 

The phosphatic baking powders are equally good and 
wholesome, and are much less expensive. Baking 
powders containing alum are universally condemned as 
injurious to health. 

The vegetables afford little proteids and fats, but a 
large proportion of carbohydrates and the mineral salts, 
and give variety to our diet. 

Vegetables may be divided into tubers, such as po- 
tatoes, sweet potatoes, and .artichokes, all of which 
yield a large proportion of carbohydrates; the roots as 
carrots, radishes, beets, turnips, parsnips, which yield 
little nutriment and are chiefly valuable for their anti- 
scorbutic (remedy or preventive of scurvy) properties. 

The herbaceous vegetables such as lettuce, cabbage, 
celery, asparagus, onions, spinach, and leeks are also 
chiefly important on account of their mineral salts and 
of the variety they afford. 

The tomato, cucumber, squash, pumpkin, and egg- 
plant are really fruits used as vegetables; they contain 
about 90 per cent of water and are very poor in proteids, 
and contain about 8 or 9 per cent of carbohydrates. 

In the use of uncooked vegetables such as lettuce, 
radishes, young onions, and celery, great care should be 
taken in cleaning them properly. The germs of infectious 
diseases, such as typhoid fever, are found in the various 
fertilizers used upon the soil, and vegetables washed 
in polluted water may also be a source of infection. 



FOOD 21 

The farinaceous (prepared starch) foods are arrow- 
root, tapioca, cooked chestnuts, and sago, all easily 
digested and much used in diet for the sick. 

Vegetable fats are derived from nuts, olives, and 
cotton seed. 

Olive oil is the most valuable as well as palatable 
vegetable oil used for food. Pure olive oil is of a green- 
ish yellow color. The adulteration of olive oil with 
cotton seed oil has been very common. 

Nuts are very nutritious on account of their large pro- 
portion of fat, but are difficult to digest. The nuts 
most commonly used in the United States are peanuts, 
walnuts, hickory nuts, cocoanuts, almonds, and chest- 
nuts. Peanuts contain less fat and more protein than 
any of the others. In Italy, France, and Spain, chest- 
nuts are used in many cooked forms, very largely in bread, 
or simply roasted. 

Fruits. By fruits we generally understand the prod- 
ucts which are sufficiently palatable to be used raw as 
desserts. They are chiefly valuable for their mineral 
salts. 

Eaten when ripe, and in moderation, they are whole- 
some and easily digested; unripe or decayed fruit pro- 
duces digestive disturbances of more or less violent 
character. 

It is considered better to eat fruit early in the day, 
as at breakfast. Fresh fruit is better than dried or pre- 
served fruit, but fruit in some form should form a part 
of the diet throughout the year. 

Bananas and figs are the most nutritious fruits, both 
being staple articles of food in the countries where they 
grow. 



22 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Of the large number of berries used in the United 
States, cranberries and gooseberries are the only varieties 
which need cooking, and the addition of sugar to render 
them palatable. 

Some persons are unable to eat strawberries, either 
by reason of the intestinal disturbance produced, or 
because of urticaria resulting. 

Sugar for food is obtained from sugar cane, glucose 
from corn, dextrose or grape sugar and beet sugar; 
beet sugar being much used in Europe. 

Maple sugar, made by boiling the sap of the maple 
tree, is probably made only in the United States, where 
it is used as molasses or as a confection rather than for 
general purposes. 

Honey, which contains about 73 per cent of sugar, may 
be regarded as a vegetable product. 

Mineral Food. The mineral most important as an 
element of food is salt (chloride of sodium). It stimu- 
lates the flow of gastric juice, thus promoting digestion. 

Vegetables are deficient in salts, and the addition of 
sodium chloride while cooking renders them more pala- 
table and digestible. The phosphates, sulphates, and 
other salts of sodium, potassium, and magnesium are 
present in sufficient quantities in a mixed diet. 

Beverages. Besides water, the important non-alco- 
holic beverages are tea, coffee, milk, cocoa, chocolate, 
and the various carbonated drinks made by charging 
a mixture of fruit sirup, flavoring, and water with car- 
bonic acid gas. 

Of the various mineral waters there are alkaline and 
sulphur, besides the various purgative waters. 

Tea, coffee, and cocoa have a mildly stimulating effect, 



FOOD 23 

producing what Egbert describes as a " sense of comfort." 
Used to excess they produce insomnia, indigestion, ner- 
vous irritability, and palpitation of the heart. Tea and 
coffee are not nutritious in themselves, but are made 
slightly so by the addition of cream and sugar. 

Cocoa and chocolate contain a considerable amount 
of nutrition, but to some persons are not easily digested, 
especially chocolate. 

Alcoholic beverages differ greatly in the amount of 
alcohol contained, from beer containing from 3 to 5 
per cent, to brandy and whisky containing from 40 to 
47 per cent of alcohol. 

Bergey x states that "Physiologic experiments have 
demonstrated that the alcoholic beverages may be re- 
garded as articles of food, not only on account of the 
quantity of alcohol present, but also on account of the 
extractives which they contain. They serve to stimulate 
the digestion, the circulation, and the nervous system. 
They also diminish the oxidation processes of the body 
and lower the temperature. Small amounts of alcohol 
may be taken daily in the food, and, according to Pro- 
fessor Atwater's experiments, these small amounts are 
oxidized in the system and are therefore a source of 
energy. 

" The principal objection to the use of alcoholic bever- 
ages is the fact that their constant use tends to the ac- 
quirement of the drink habit. The constant use of large 
amounts of alcohol leads to grave derangement of health, 
and for this reason the use of alcoholic beverages is to 
be condemned, except under special conditions in disease 
where such a stimulant may be required." 

1 Principles of Hygiene. 



24 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Condiments include a large number of substances of 
no nutritive value in themselves, but used as flavoring. 
They enhance the value of other foods by rendering them 
more palatable. 

Of the simple substances, the common are salt, pepper, 
vinegar, mustard, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice 
(pimento), mace, lemon and orange juice and peel, and 
sage, besides an innumerable list of catsups, curries, and 
sauces compounded from a combination of many spices, 
with vinegar and fruit or vegetables. 

The tendency in hot countries is toward the excessive 
use of "hot" spices and high seasoning which in time 
impairs digestion. 

SECTION IV 

Food Preservation and Adulteration. By the preser- 
vation of food we understand a process whereby food 
may be kept for a certain length of time or indefinitely 
without putrefaction. 

Since putrefaction is due to bacteria present in the 
atmosphere, it is necessary for the preservation of food 
to protect it in some way from these germs. Heat and 
moisture being favorable to the growth of bacteria, cer- 
tain foods such as meats, milk, berries, tomatoes, and 
others containing much moisture rapidly decompose in 
hot weather. 

There are four common methods of preserving food : - 

1. Drying. 

2. Exclusion of air (with and without heating). 

3. Exposure to cold. 

4. Treatment with chemical agents. 



FOOD 25 

Drying. Drying is a process more suitable for cer- 
tain fruits and vegetables than for meat, as meat when 
dried becomes tough, unpalatable, and loses much of 
its digestibility. 

Fish which have been previously salted lose less of their 
flavor and digestibility than meat. 

Eggs and milk are also dried. 

Drying may be accomplished by the sun or by arti- 
ficial means. Drying in the sun is easily done in a dry, 
sunny climate, but is d fficult near the sea or large bodies 
of water. 

Raisins, figs, and prunes are usually sun-dried, as 
Spain and California, where most of them grow, have 
both hot, dry climates; but in the more temperate 
climates, where large quantities of apples and peaches 
are dried for the market, artificial heat is employed, the 
fruit being usually called " evaporated" fruit. 

The efficiency of the drying process depends upon 
the thoroughness with which it is done, and drying does 
not prevent the invasion of parasites. 

Exclusion of air is accomplished in various ways: 
by immersing the food in oil or fat, as sardines ; by coat- 
ing with some impervious substance such as paraffin or 
varnish; or covering with dry salt or sawdust, as with 



Meat and fish are frequently preserved by exposing 
them for many days to the smoke from wood ashes, 
which coagulates the outer surface, rendering it imper- 
meable, and at the same time gives the food a peculiar 
flavor very palatable to most people. Meats and fish are 
usually put into a salt brine for some days before smoking. 

Food is canned by packing it tightly in tin cans which 



26 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

are sealed except a pin hole, and then steamed for sev- 
eral hours until thoroughly cooked and sterilized, when 
the pin hole is soldered. This is the process used for 
canning meats, fruit, and vegetables for the markets, 
and when perfectly fresh food is used under cleanly 
methods the food is wholesome. 

The danger from canned goods may be from the action 
of the tin and solder upon meats or acid fruits and vege- 
tables; or from food which was not fresh nor clean, or 
from lack of cooking or defects in sealing. 

All canned foods should be removed from the tins 
immediately when the can is opened, but this is unneces- 
sary when glass cans are used. 

Exposure to cold is effected either by freezing, or by 
putting the food into, a refrigerating chamber with a 
temperature two or three degrees above the freezing 
point. Frozen food will keep indefinitely, but loses 
much of its flavor. By the use of refrigeration or "cold 
storage," as it is commonly known, fresh meat is trans- 
ported from the United States, from New Zealand and 
South America to England and the Continent. 

Properly done, meat and other foods are often kept 
perfectly for several months, but there is room for many 
technical flaws in the process, and unless properly in- 
spected, much dangerous food may be thrown upon the 
market. 

Chemical Preservation. Salt and sugar are the oldest 
and least harmful of all chemical preservatives. It is 
said that the process of brine-salting fish is the oldest 
method of food preservation kno\vn. Both meat and 
fish lose some of their nutritive value and become less 
d'gestible when salted. 



FOOD 27 

A long-continued diet of salt meat or fish is conducive 
to scurvy. 

Sugar in a concentrated sirup is used to preserve 
fruits, and dry sugar is used with dried fruits. Vinegar 
acts as a preservative in pickling vegetables, fruits, and 
oysters. 

The use of such antiseptics as boracic acid, salicylic 
acid, and formaldehyde in small quantities and as an 
occasional ingredient of a diet has not been found harm- 
ful, but their continued use cannot fail to be injurious 
to health. Laws have been enacted in many states to 
regulate the use of these antLeptics, particularly in milk 
and beer. 

The adulteration of food in this and other countries 
reached an enormous extent before the passage of the 
Pure Food and Drugs Act by Congress, which went into 
effect January 1, 1907. 

On January 1, 1908, one year after the law went into 
effect, Dr. Wiley, Chief of the Bureau of Chemistry, of 
the Department of Agriculture, reported that 95 per 
cent of all the manufacturers and dealers in foods, drugs, 
and beverages are now supplying pure articles, correctly 
labeled. 

The extent to which the adulteration of food had been 
carried may be gathered from Bulletin 100, Bureau of 
Chemistry, Department of Agriculture, by W. D. Bige- 
low and Burton J. Howard, which is quoted as follows : 

" Since the middle of the last century the subject of 
food adulteration has attracted a constantly increasing 
amount of attention. In this country very little was 
done in this line until about 1880. In 1881 the Division 
of Chemistry began the study of food adulteration, and 



28 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

since then has given a great deal of time to the subject. 
Since 1898 the origin and place of manufacture of the 
foods studied by the Bureau have been carefully noted, 
and special attention has been given to imported foods. 

" In 1883 the first practicable food-inspection law in the 
United States was enacted in Massachusetts. Since that 
time other States have enacted and enforced food laws 
until at the time of this writing (1906) twenty-five States 
are seriously attempting to regulate the character and 
quality of the foods sold in their markets. In three 
additional States laws relating to the purity of dairy 
products are enforced, and in several others a beginning 
has been made. 

" Food legislation has received much attention abroad 
and the more highly civilized foreign countries have 
efficient food laws and enforce them rigidly. The subject 
of the purity of foods is more widely studied in the United 
States now than at any previous time. The people as 
a whole are better informed on the subject than ever 
before, and there is a constantly increasing demand for 
definite information. In response to a very large number 
of inquiries regarding the matter this bulletin has been 
prepared as a popular statement regarding the nature 
and extent of food adulteration, and includes simple 
tests by which the housekeeper or retail dealer may de- 
termine some of the more prevalent forms of adultera- 
tion practiced. 

" The demand for information on this subject is now 
very general and, as is often the case when public interest 
is deeply aroused, there is an unfortunate tendency 
toward exaggeration which frequently amounts to sen- 
sationalism. Such an attitude is to be deplored, and 



FOOD 29 

unless it is checked must sooner or later react unfavor- 
ably. It is not unusual to speak of some of our typical 
foods as poisoned, and of food manufacturers as poisoners. 
Such characterizations are unfortunate and untrue. 
Deleterious substances are doubtless sometimes added 
to foods. At the same time the word 'poison' has a 
very strong and distinct significance and should not 
be applied to any of the substances ordinarily added to 
foods, except in the sense that they are harmful. The 
word ' poisoner' signifies a person who intentionally 
and deliberately administers an article intended to result 
fatally, or at least very disastrously to health. 

"We do not for a moment admit that any manufacturer 
of foods adds to his products substances which he believes 
will be injurious to health. There is no reason for at- 
tributing such motives to so large and important a class 
of our citizens, and their business sagacity in other direc- 
tions precludes the possibility of shortsightedness of so 
serious a nature. We cannot do less than assume that 
manufacturers who depend for their success upon the 
reputation of their brands will add nothing which they 
believe will make their products seriously detrimental 
to health. It is not to their interest to shorten the lives 
of their customers nor to impair their appetites. We 
must assume that they honestly believe the products 
they employ to be wholesome. Therefore, in judging 
of the wholesomeness of preservatives and other sub- 
stances added in the preparation of foods, the subject 
must be treated in a conservative manner and no criminal 
or even dishonest motives attributed to those who differ 
with us on the subject. 



30 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

"'ADULTERATION' DEFINED 

" During recent years there has been a'tendency to con- 
fuse the minds of many by an incorrect use of certain 
words frequently used in the discussion of foods. It is 
the policy of some manufacturers to limit the word 
' adulterated ' to foods to which have been added sub- 
stances of lower value than the foods themselves with 
the intention of increasing the weight or volume. This 
limitation is certainly not justified by the English lan- 
guage nor by the facts, and such a restriction of the 
term is entirely unwarranted. The word ' adulterated ' 
properly describes a food to which any noncondimental 
foreign substance, not properly constituting a portion 
of the food, has been added. The fact that the added 
substance may be at times of a greater commercial value 
than the food itself has no bearing on the question. Con- 
versely, the word ' pure ' is properly applicable to foods 
that are unmixed with any foreign substance. It may 
be wholesome or unwholesome, but this property is 
not indicated by the word 'pure' or 'adulterated.' 
This definition is not, of course, complete. According 
to the laws of many of the States a food is declared to 
be adulterated under the following conditions : 

" ' First, if any substance or substances have been mixed 
with it, so as to lower or depreciate or injuriously affect 
its quality, strength, or purity; second, if any inferior or 
cheaper substance or substances have been substituted 
wholly or in part for it; third, if any valuable or neces- 
sary constituent or ingredient has been wholly or in part 
abstracted from it; fourth, if it is an imitation of or is 
sold under the name of another article; fifth, if it 



FOOD 31 

consists wholly or in part of a diseased, decomposed, 
putrid, infected, tainted, or rotten animal or vegetable 
substance or article, whether manufactured or not, or, 
in the case of milk, if it is the product of a diseased ani- 
mal; sixth, if it is colored, coated, polished, or pow- 
dered, whereby damage or inferiority is concealed, or 
if by any means it is made to appear better or of greater 
value than it really is; seventh, if it contains any 
added substance or ingredient which is poisonous or 
injurious to health: Provided, That the provisions of 
this act shall not apply to mixtures or compounds recog- 
nized as ordinary articles or ingredients of articles of 
food, if each and every package sold or offered for sale 
bear the name and address of the manufacturer and be 
distinctly labeled under its own distinctive name and in 
a manner so as to plainly and correctly show that it 
is a mixture or compound, and is not in violation with 
definitions fourth and seventh of this section.' 

" The claim is made by some manufacturers that the 
addition of a preservative to food does not properly 
constitute adulteration because the preservatives added 
are of greater commercial value than the foods themselves. 
Such a claim, however, seems to be nothing but a play 
upon words. For instance, benzoate of soda has a 
greater commercial value, weight for weight, than 
tomatoes, and the "claim has been made that for that 
reason its addition to tomatoes actually increases the 
expense of the preparation of tomato catsup. As a 
matter of fact, however, it permits the tomato pulp to 
be prepared in large quantities and preserved in barrels 
in a much less expensive way than can be done without 
its use. It is evident, therefore, that even though the 



32 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

preservative employed is more expensive than the sub- 
stance to which it is added, the addition is really made for 
the purpose of cheapening the product. It is not for 
this reason that such a substance is properly called an 
adulterant, however, but because it is an added foreign 
substance and is neither a food nor a condiment. These 
definitions cannot be emphasized too strongly. Adulter- 
ated foods are not necessarily unwholesome foods. 

" The term ' misbranded ' is appropriately applied to 
foods incorrectly described by the label. The word has 
not the same significance as 'adulterated,' and yet the 
two terms may frequently be applied to the same prod- 
uct. For instance, commercial starch is sometimes 
added to sausage to increase its weight and permit 
of the use of a larger amount of water or of fatter meat 
than could otherwise be used. Such a product may 
properly be deemed adulterated, and at the same time, 
if the article were properly branded, it might not be open 
to objection either on the score of unwholesomeness or 
adulteration. If such an article, however, be sold simply 
as sausage, the purchaser must naturally assume that no 
substance has been added to increase the weight of the 
material without a corresponding increase of nutritive 
value. The addition of starch to sausage, therefore, is 
not in itself deleterious to health, but in tKe absence 
of a proper declaration is a fraud, because it cheapens 
the article which the customer supposes he is buying. 
In this connection, however, attention should be called 
to the claim of packers that 1 or 2 per cent of starch 
should be added to the sausage that is to be boiled, in 
order to prevent its shrinking when the sausage is cooked. 

"The following definitions of 'adulteration' and 



FOOD 33 

1 misbranding,' as applied to foods, are taken from the 
food bill now pending in Congress : l 

"'Sec. 6. That for the purposes of this act an article 
shall be deemed to be adulterated 

'"In the case of food: 

" ' First. If any substance has been mixed and packed 
with it so as to reduce or lower or injuriously affect 
its quality or strength. 

"' Second. If any substance has been substituted 
wholly or in part for the article. 

"' Third. If any valuable constituent of the article 
has been wholly or in part abstracted. 

"' Fourth. If it be mixed, colored, powdered, coated, 
or stained in a manner whereby damage or inferiority 
is concealed. 

"'Fifth. If it contain any added poisonous or other 
added deleterious ingredient which may render such 
article injurious to health: Provided, That when in the 
preparation of food products for shipment they are 
preserved by an external application applied in such 
manner that the preservative is necessarily removed 
mechanically, or by maceration in water, or otherwise, 
the provisions of this act shall be construed as applying 
only when said products are ready for consumption. 

"'Sixth. If it consist in whole or in part of a filthy, 
decomposed, or putrid animal or vegetable substance, 
or any portion of an animal unfit for food, whether manu- 
factured or not, or if it is a product of a diseased animal, 
or one that has died otherwise than by slaughter. 

" 'Sec. 7. That the term " misbranded," as used herein, 

1 House of Representatives, Fifty-ninth Congress, Report No 
2118, March 7, 1906. 
D 



34 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

shall apply to all drugs, or articles of food, or articles 
which enter into the composition of food, the package 
or label of which shall bear any statement regarding the 
ingredients or substances contained in such article, 
which statement shall be false or misleading in any 
particular, and to any food or drug product which is 
falsely branded as to the State, Territory, or country 
in which it is manufactured or produced. 

"'That for the purposes of this act an article shall 
also be deemed to be misbranded: 

"'In the case of food 

"'First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale 
under the distinctive name of another article. 

" 'Second. If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive 
or mislead the purchaser, or purport to be a foreign prod- 
uct when not so. 

" ' Third. If in package form, the quantity of the con- 
tents of the package be not plainly and correctly stated 
in terms of weight or measure, on the outside of the 
package. 

'"Fourth. If the package containing it or its label 
shall bear any statement, design, or device regarding the 
ingredients or the substances contained therein, which 
statement, design, or device shall be false or misleading 
in any particular: Provided, That an article of food 
which does not contain any added poisonous or delete- 
rious ingredient shall not be deemed to be adulterated or 
misbranded in the following cases: 

"'First. In the case of mixtures or compounds which 
may be now or from time to time hereafter known as 
articles of food, under their own distinctive names, and 
not an imitation or offered for sale under the distinctive 



FOOD 35 

name of another article, if the name be accompanied 
on the same label or brand with a statement of the 
place where said article has been manufactured or pro- 
duced. 

" ' Second. In the case "of articles labeled, branded, or 
tagged so as to plainly indicate that they are com- 
pounds, imitations, or blends: Provided, That the term 
" blend " as used herein shall be construed to mean a mix- 
ture of like substances, not excluding harmless coloring or 
flavoring ingredients : And provided further, That nothing 
in this act shall be construed as requiring or compelling 
proprietors or manufacturers of proprietary foods which 
contain no unwholesome added ingredient to disclose 
their trade formulas, except in so far as the provisions 
of this act may require to secure freedom from adultera- 
tion or misbranding.' 

" CHEMICAL PRESERVATION 

" During recent years the practice has sprung up of 
adding to many articles of food certain chemical sub- 
stances which have the property of delaying or preventing 
fermentation and decay. These substances are commonly 
known as chemical preservatives. Among them are 
salicylic, benzoic, and boric acids, and their sodium 
salts (sodium salicylate, sodium benzoate, and borax), 
formaldehyde, ammonium fluorid, sulphurous acid, and 
sulphites. 

"It is claimed by those who favor the use of chemical 
preservatives that the action of the latter is similar to 
that of salt, vinegar, and wood smoke, and that the use 
of the former is not open to greater objection than that 



36 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

of the latter. In fact, there are not wanting some who 
claim that the former are less objectionable than the 
latter. The literature regarding the wholesomeness 
of the so-called chemical preservatives is not by any 
means uniform in either approving or disapproving them. 
It is the opinion of this Bureau that they cannot be re- 
garded as entirely wholesome even in the small amounts 
generally added to foods. The recent investigations 
conducted by this Bureau, in which twelve men were 
used as subjects, demonstrated that boric acid is in- 
jurious to health. 1 The experiments of the German 
Imperial Board of Health had the same result, and 
Germany has prohibited the use of this preservative 
altogether. It is almost universally conceded that 
formaldehyde and fluorids are injurious, and the weight 
of evidence is decidedly adverse to sulphurous acid as a 
preservative of meat products. The experiments of the 
Bureau of Chemistry indicate that neither salicylic 
acid nor benzoic acid is free from injurious effects. 

"There are now upon the market a large number of 
brands of commercial preservatives, and there are firms 
who make a specialty of preparing such preservatives. 
These substances are usually composed of the chemicals 
mentioned above. They are frequently sold with the 
statement that they comply with all pure food laws, that 
they are entirely wholesome, and the claim is sometimes 
made that they are new products, and that their pres- 
ence in foods cannot be detected by the chemist. 
These statements are all untrue. As stated above, 
commercial preservatives usually consist of common 

1 U. S. Dept. Agr. Bureau of Chemistry, Circular No. 15 (digest) 
and Bui. No. 84, Part I. 



FOOD 37 

substances of well-known antiseptic action. Their use 
is forbidden in many States, and their detection is not a 
difficult matter. 

" As a result of these claims many small manufacturers 
are led unwittingly to violate the food laws of the various 
States. By using commercial preservatives which they 
are led to believe are not objectionable they add sub- 
stances to their foods which they would not knowingly 
employ. Such instances have repeatedly occurred, and 
a number of preparations of similar nature are also put 
up in small packages and sold by agents from house to 
house for the preparation of what is known as "cold 
process" preserves. These preparations are sold under 
the claims mentioned above, and many housekeepers 
have been led to use them who would not have employed 
them had they known their true character. Unfortu- 
nately, they are sometimes accompanied by directions for 
the preparation of fruits without any heat whatever, 
and in such cases the amount of preservatives employed 
is often far in excess of that which even the advocates 
of food preservatives advise. 

"COLORING MATTER 

" Some difference of opinion has arisen among hygien- 
ists regarding the wholesomeness of the substances frequ- 
ently employed for coloring foods. European countries 
have legally recognized the wholesomeness of a consider- 
able number of coal-tar derivatives. In this country a 
preference is frequently given by the State laws to 
vegetable colors, although coal-tar derivatives are more 
commonly employed. 



38 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

" As far as their application to the preparation of foods 
is concerned, coal-tar colors have been found to be much 
more satisfactory from a technical standpoint than 
the pure vegetable colors. They are readily soluble, 
are cheap in consideration of the amount employed, 
and withstand the action of light and time much 
better than the ordinary vegetable colors available for 
coloring food. 

" In addition to any influence on digestion and health 
which the coal-tar colors may have, a certain amount of 
arsenic is added to them by some methods of preparation. 
In some colors, however, prepared with a special view 
to use in foods, arsenic is practically or entirely absent. 
In this connection it must be borne in mind that the 
amount of coloring matter necessary to give a food the 
desired tint is very small, and the danger to health re- 
sulting from its use should not be exaggerated. The 
question of fraud, however, remains, and the use of 
colors enables the manufacturer to give inferior prod- 
ucts the appearance of high-priced goods. Yet again 
the colors may be used merely to produce an appearance 
more attractive to the eye and in accordance with popu- 
lar taste, even though the best materials were employed. 
Thus, coloring matter may be added to foods for any of 
the following reasons: It is sometimes placed in jelly 
and similar preparations when made only from the more 
expensive fruits and sugar, to make the color more per- 
manent and enable the product to retain its appearance 
for a longer time upon the shelves of the grocer. If a 
considerable portion of the fruit has been replaced by 
means of apple juice and glucose, the coloring matter 
is added to simulate the appearance of the fruit that 



FOOD 39 

is supposed to be present. In the cheapest grade of 
jellies, which are made entirely from apple and glucose, 
and flavored artificially to imitate the product of higher 
priced fruit, coloring matter is employed to represent the 
appearance of the product imitated. 

" In the preparation of tomato catsup the natural 
coloring matter of the tomato is largely destroyed. This 
destruction is not so complete if the product is promptly 
made as when the pulp is stored for a considerable time 
before it is used, long storage of the pulp bleaching it 
to some extent. The addition of a little coloring matter, 
therefore, has been resorted to for the purpose of imitating 
the color of the product which is made promptly and 
by the most careful methods. The addition of color, 
however, is likely to be abused, and this tendency has 
resulted in placing upon our market tomato catsup of a 
deep red color, much more vivid than could possibly be 
obtained without the use of artificial colors. 

" In the preparation of cucumber pickles the natural 
green of the cucumber is somewhat impaired. Some 
manufacturers have employed copper compounds for the 
purpose of imparting to the product a greenish tint. 
This also has been carried to excess, and we sometimes 
find upon our market pickles of a bright green hue which 
is not suggestive of any natural food. The same practice 
obtains in the preparation of canned peas and beans. 
The great majority of those products imported from 
Europe are colored with copper, and as a result are of 
a much brighter color than the same vegetables, cooked 
when gathered freshly from the garden. 

" In the manufacture of butter it is found that the color 
varies with the season of the year, the feed of the cow 



40 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

from which the milk is obtained, and within certain 
limits with the breed of the cow. This results in a 
variation in the color of butter which manufacturers 
have attempted to correct by adding a sufficient amount 
of coloring matter to make the color uniform. This 
practice has also been carried to excess, and the butter 
now on our market is colored more deeply than is natural. 
This color varies in different markets of the country. 
Fortunately, during recent years, there has been a tend- 
ency to decrease the color of the butter, and it is to be 
hoped that before many years people will demand a 
product which is prepared without any addition of color 
whatever. 

" Coloring matter is sometimes employed for the pur- 
pose of simulating the appearance of a more perfect 
article than that actually used . For instance, in the prep- 
aration of canned tomatoes a product having a certain 
brightness of color may be obtained if the tomatoes are 
perfect, fully ripe, and of certain varieties. Often, 
however, the tomatoes delivered to the canner do not 
yield a product of the desired color. For this reason 
some canners make a practice of adding coloring matter 
to their product, thus giving it an appearance which they 
say is more acceptable to their customers. 

" Again, in the case of meat, the color disappears after 
considerable time, the meat losing its bright, fresh color 
before the process of decay is evident. Therefore, the 
coloring matter is not usually applied to fresh meat held 
at low temperature, but to chopped meat, Hamburg 
steak, and sausage, the addition of coloring matter to 
this product thus giving it the fictitious appearance of 
fresh meat. 



FOOD 41 

" BAKING POWDERS AND BAKING CHEMICALS 

" Baking powders consist of a mixture of bicarbonate 
of soda with some acid ingredient When the powders 
are moistened, these two substances unite and liberate 
carbon dioxid gas. To prevent the two substances 
mentioned above uniting prematurely while the baking 
powder is still in the package, owing to moisture in the 
atmosphere, starch is usually employed as a filler. Some 
brands are claimed by the manufacturers to contain no 
filler, but to consist exclusively of sodium bicarbonate 
and the acid ingredient employed. 

"CANNED VEGETABLES 

" Canned vegetables constitute a class of products 
relatively free from adulteration by means of foreign 
substances. Imported canned peas are commonly colored 
with copper sulphate. Owing to the enforcement of the 
imported food law by the Bureau of Chemistry, the pres- 
ence of copper is now almost universally stated on the 
labels of these goods. Peas and beans grown and canned 
in America are rarely colored. 

" One of the most frequent frauds in this class of prod- 
ucts is the preparation of goods which have reached a 
relatively mature state, and the selling of such products 
as first grade. Mature peas, for instance, are sometimes 
soaked for the purpose of softening them, canned, and 
sold as peas of first quality. Again, peas that are not 
thoroughly ripe, but so nearly mature as to be relatively 
hard and white, are sometimes canned as a high grade 
article. 

" At the period at which sugar corn is canned the sugai 



42 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

disappears very rapidly after picking and it is customary 
to add some sugar at the time of canning. During recent 
years many canning establishments replaced sugar with 
saccharin, an artificial sweetening material derived from 
coal tar. A few years ago it was customary to bleach 
corn for canning by means of sulphites, but this practice 
has been almost entirely discontinued. 

" Tomatoes are sometimes colored artificially in order 
to add to the price of an inferior article. 

"CEREAL PRODUCTS 
"BREAKFAST FOODS 

" During the last few years the number of breakfast 
foods on the market has been enormously increased, 
and very many of them are extensively advertised by 
means of greatly exaggerated statements regarding their 
nutritive value. Some of these products are simply 
ground with no other preparation than the removal 
of the hulls, etc. Others are partially cooked, and still 
others are ' predigested ' by means of special treatment. 

" There appears to be some doubt as to the amount of 
advantage derived from the treatment to w r hich the 
partially cooked and predigested foods are subjected. 
All breakfast foods when thoroughly cooked seem to be 
equally as digestible as the products placed on the market 
in a more advanced state of preparation. 

" The rumors which have been circulated from time to 
time that arsenic and other poisonous substances are 
used in breakfast foods have been entirely without 
foundation. There is no doubt of the wholesomeness 
of these foods. At the same time, the exaggerated 



FOOD 43 

claims made by the manufacturers regarding their supe* 
rior nutritive qualities are to be deplored. 

" FLOUR 

" There is an impression in some quarters, unfortunately, 
that flour is adulterated with ground gypsum or other 
mineral matter. It is also believed by many that alum 
is used for the purpose of whitening bread. It may be 
said, however, that these forms of adulteration are not 
practiced in this country. 

" Some years ago an effort was made to place on the 
market a ground stone for the purpose of adulterating 
flour. This product was extensively advertised by means 
of circular letters addressed to millers. As far as we 
have been able to ascertain, however, the product was 
never used. At one time during recent years the use of 
Indian corn flour for the adulteration of wheat flour be- 
came somewhat prevalent. This practice was entirely 
stopped by the enforcement of the Federal law relating 
to mixed flour. At the present time there is probably 
no product on our market more free from adulteration 
than wheat flour. 

" Some adulteration is practiced in special kinds of flour. 
For instance, much of the so-called gluten flour on the 
market is not at all what it purports to be. Frequently 
untreated wheat flour is sold for gluten flour. Buck- 
wheat flour and other special articles of that nature are 
also frequently adulterated with cheaper cereal products. 

"COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

" In the preparation of cocoa and chocolate, cocoa beans 
are roasted, freed from shells, and ground. The re- 



44 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

suiting product is known as cocoa mass. It contains 
about 50 per cent of fat (cocoa butter), and is sometimes 
melted into cakes without any further addition and sold 
as plain chocolate or bitter chocolate. 

" For the preparation of sweetened chocolate, cane 
sugar is added to the cocoa mass and ground at a tem- 
perature sufficient to melt the fat. Milk chocolate is 
prepared by mixing with the cocoa mass dry milk powder 
(obtained by the evaporation of whole milk) and sugar. 

" Cocoa is obtained by pressing the cocoa mass while 
still sufficiently warm to melt the fat so that a portion of 
it is removed. The fat is melted into cakes and sold as 
cocoa butter, while the pressed cakes of cocoa from 
which a portion of the fat has been extracted are ground 
up in the preparation of breakfast cocoa. 

" For the purpose of cheapening cocoa and chocolate, 
starches of various kinds are ground in with the cocoa 
mass at the time of the introduction of the sugar or with 
the cocoa after the expression of the fat. 

"COFFEE AND TEA 

" Owing to the enforcement of the Federal tea law, 
by inspectors stationed at all ports of entry, it is believed 
that no adulterated tea comes into this country, and it is 
probably true that the adulteration of this product is not 
practiced after entry. Formerly it was believed that 
many other leaves were used as substitutes or adulter- 
ants for tea, and a sample may be readily examined for 
such adulterants by thoroughly wetting and unrolling 
the leaves and noting their shape. 

" With regard to coffee, however, while it is believed 






FOOD 45 

that only the pure product is brought into the country 
its adulteration after reaching our shores is not uncom- 
mon. The attempts that have been made to imitate the 
coffee bean have not been commercial^ successful, but 
the ground coffees sold in the market are frequently 
adulterated. For this purpose chicory was usually em- 
ployed, but has since been largely replaced by articles 
of lower value ground peas, wheat, beans, barley, 
etc., now being commonly used. The principal offense 
in the coffee trade is misbranding as to country of origin. 
The sale of Brazilian coffee, for example, as Java or 
Mocha is unfortunately very common. 

" The artificially molded coffee berries, referred to above, 
are not on the market, as far as is known, but may be 
readily distinguished by cutting a cross section of the 
bean and examining its structure. That of the artificial 
bean is of a compact, solid, uniform nature, whereas the 
true coffee has a characteristic structure that cannot be 
imitated. If pure coffee is desired, therefore, the most 
practical plan is to buy it unground. 

"DAIRY PRODUCTS 
" BUTTER 

" The sale of oleomargarin as butter was formerly very 
common, but the enforcement of the internal-revenue 
laws, relative to that subject, by the Treasury Depart- 
ment, and of the State laws, 1 have greatly lessened this 
species of fraud, although violations of these laws still 
occur with considerable frequency. 

1 U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bureau of Chemistry, Bui. 69 Revised, 
Parts I- VIII, Foods and Food Control. 



46 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

"It is now the custom to treat much of the rancid but- 
ter on the market in such a way as to remove the rancid- 
ity in the preparation of what is known as ' process ' or 
'renovated butter.' In the early days of the manufac- 
ture of this article it was ordinarily sold as fresh butter. 
At the present time, however, this product is required to 
be marked on the wrapper with the words 'Renovated 
Butter, ' and violations of the law requiring this are 
relatively infrequent. This law is enforced by the 
Bureau of Animal Industry of the Department of 
Agriculture in collaboration with the Treasury Depart- 
ment. 1 The chemical analyses necessary in the enforce- 
ment of the law are made in the Bureau of Chemistry. 

" Butter is sometimes preserved with boric acid, and 
glucose has sometimes been found as an adulterant. The 
coloring of butter is usual, and is permitted by the laws 
of all the States. The principles governing the legislation 
regarding coloring matter of foods in general have not 
been ordinarily applied to the coloring of butter. The 
present tendency, however, seems to be to prepare butter 
with a lighter tint, and a more natural-looking article 
can now be found in the market than formerly. 

"CHEESE 

" One of the most frequent methods of adulterating 
cheese is to prepare it from milk which has been skimmed 
and to which some other form of fat has been added for 
the purpose of replacing the fat of the cream removed. 
Both lard and cotton seed oil have been used for this 
purpose. Cheese which has such an addition of foreign 

1 U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bureau of Chemistry, Bui. 69 Revised, 
Part I, p. 28. 



FOOD 47 

fat is known as 'filled cheese.' Such a product well 
illustrates a form of adulteration which, although it 
may not be at all unwholesome, is fraudulent, and if sold 
as full cream cheese constitutes a form of misbranding. 
Such a sale is unfair to the buyer, aside from the question 
of price. If the cheese is desired for melting, as in making 
a Welsh rarebit, or for other use in cooking, the foreign fat 
or oil of the filled cheese will separate much more readily 
than from a genuine cheese, leaving a gummy mass, 
instead of melting smoothly as a full cream cheese will 
do. 

" CREAM 

" Cream is frequently preserved artificially. This is 
illegal in most of the States, but some which prohibit 
artificial preservatives in milk permit them in cream. 
How this position is justified does not appear. During 
recent years preparations known as 'thickeners' have 
been sold to permit dealers to sophisticate their wares. 
These thickeners ordinarily consist of gelatin, and some- 
times contain boric acid for the purpose of preserving 
the cream. 

" Since in the use of cream the dietetic value of fat is 
taken into consideration, and especially since it is fre- 
quently employed in the preparation of modified milk 
for the use of infants, the sale of a product in which the 
fat has been largely replaced by gelatin should be con-, 
demned in strong terms. 

" MILK 

" The most serious problem connected with food control 
is the regulation of the milk supply. A considerable 



48 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

portion of the milk consumed is employed as food foi 
infants and invalids. In such cases it frequently forms 
the entire food consumed by an individual. For that 
reason, and because of the susceptibility of infants and 
invalids to interfering substances, it is imperative that 
the quality of the milk supply be carefully guarded. 

" The addition of preservatives to milk is particularly 
to be condemned, partly because of the influences of the 
preservative itself on the health of infants and invalids 
by whom the milk may be used as a food, and partly 
because of the less cleanly methods that may be employed 
in the preservation of milk when preservatives are used, 
and of the increased danger in the consumption of such 
milk. 

"The most common adulteration practiced with milk 
is the addition of water or the removal of cream. The 
management of the dairy and the care of the milk from 
the time it is received from the cow until it is delivered 
to the consumer are attended by great difficulties. If 
the milk is to be kept without chemical preservation, 
absolute cleanliness and prompt, intelligent care are 
imperative. This is true at all times and especially 
in the summer. The milk must be cooled immediately 
and kept cool until its delivery to the consumer, and 
then delivery must not be delayed too long. Even after 
the milk is left at the door of the consumer considerable 
annoyance is caused by many who do not take their milk 
promptly and place it in the refrigerator. It is fre- 
quently allowed to stand at the door for a considerable 
time, and then many cases of spoiling for which the 
consumer is responsible are attributed by him to the 
dairymen. 



FOOD 49 

" In order to avoid these inconveniences the use of pre- 
servatives with milk is frequently practiced wherever the 
enforcement of the food laws is not rigid. In this con- 
nection especially the use of commercial preservatives 
represented to be in conformity with the food laws is of 
interest. 

"FRUIT PRODUCTS 

" The class of foods known as fruit products includes 
jams, jellies, marmalades, and dried and preserved fruits 
of every description. Glucose is often used as a sub- 
stitute for cane sugar and coloring matter is employed 
in order that the color of the finished article may stand 
for a considerable time on the shelves in the light without 
deterioration. Coloring matter is also used with cheap 
fruits in the preparation of a product supposedly made 
from more expensive products. For instance, jellies 
are sometimes made of glucose and apple juice, the 
latter having been prepared from peelings and cores, 
the by-product of the manufacture of dried apples. 
These jellies may be flavored and colored to represent 
the jelly of high-priced fruits, or they may be sold with- 
out additional flavor and as a low-priced product. Al- 
ways, however, when the product of a high-priced fruit 
is imitated artificial coloring matter is employed. 

" Apple juice, as mentioned above, and especially the 
product obtained from peelings and cores, is used ex- 
tensively with the cheaper grades of jellies where but 
little fruit is used. With the cheapest grade of goods, 
starch is often used as a filler and gelatinizing agent. 

" Preservatives, such as salicylic acid and benzoic acid, 
are often employed with jellies and jams. Their purpose 



50 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

is twofold : First, to preserve apple juice in barrels until 
it is desired in the manufacture of the finished product; 
second, to prevent molding in the finished article which 
is subjected to much less favorable conditions during 
transportation on trains and in heated storerooms than 
is the case of the domestic product, which stands quietly, 
often in a cool, dark cellar, from the time it is made until 
it is used. 

" The exhausted residue from the manufacture of jelly 
is sometimes used for the preparation of jams, giving 
to the latter the seeds and other insoluble material of the 
fruit supposed to be present, while the soluble material 
is frequently made up of glucose. Occasionally foreign 
seeds are used for this purpose. Glucose, as has been 
already stated, is commonly used in the cheaper varieties 
of fruit products, and sometimes, though very rarely, 
saccharin is employed for sweetening. 

"MEAT PREPARATIONS 

" In this class of foods are considered fresh and prepared 
meat, fish, crabs, oysters, and similar products. The 
fresh meats on the market are rarely subject to adultera- 
tion. Packers depend entirely on cold storage for their 
preservation, and they are kept at a low temperature, 
not only in the packing house, but also in refrigerator 
cars in transit and in cold-storage rooms at their des- 
tination until immediately before they go into con- 
sumption. 

" In' fresh meats, however, preservatives are sometimes 
employed by retail dealers who have not efficient re- 
frigerator service or who desire to keep fresh meat for 



FOOD 51 

a considerable time on the block. For this purpose 
powdered preparations of preservatives are employed, 
and dusted over the meat from time to time. 

" All varieties of meat that are sold in a finely commi- 
nuted state, such as chopped meat, Hamburg steak, and 
sausage, are likely to have a preservative added in their 
preparation. By this statement it is not meant that 
preservatives are added in all cases. Their use, however, 
simplifies the keeping of such preparations and is not 
unusual. The preservatives most commonly employed 
with meat are borax or boric acid and sulphites. Oysters, 
when kept in bulk after shucking, are also frequently 
preserved. 

" It is frequently pointed out by manufacturers that the 
addition of preservatives does not restore the fresh 
character of spoiled meat and that they cannot be used 
for this purpose. As has been stated above, however, 
sometimes meat, especially in a finely comminuted 
condition, frequently loses its natural fresh color before 
there is any other evidence of deterioration. This 
color is restored to a certain extent by the addition of 
sulphites, and the color is very materially preserved if 
sulphites are added at the time of the preparation of 
chopped meat. Moreover, manufacturers of chemical 
preservatives frequently add a small amount of coal- 
tar color to preservatives consisting of sulphites intended 
to be added to meat. 

" One of the most objectionable forms of adulteration 
practiced in connection with meat is the sale of the flesh 
of immature calves. This practice is forbidden in prac- 
tically all of the States, but the enforcement of such laws 
has sometimes been found very difficult. Particular 



52 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



difficulty has been experienced in this matter in New 
York." 

This bulletin also contains tables of the adulterants 
formerly used in olive oil, lard, flavoring extracts, spices 
of all kinds, sugars, sirups, vinegars, and condimental 
sauces, together with simple methods for their detection. 



CHAPTER III 

AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 

SECTION I 

Nature and Composition of the Atmosphere. Air 
consists of a mechanical mixture of gases of remarkable 
uniformity, which envelops the earth to a depth which 
is estimated to be about forty miles, and which pene- 
trates the soil and the ocean. 

The weight pressure of the atmosphere, which is esti- 
mated by means of the barometer, is equivalent to about 
fourteen tons to the surface of an adult human body. 

The pressure of the air decreases as we rise above the 
sea level, and increases as we descend below its level ; 
and any considerable or sudden variation in this pressure 
may produce disturbances of health, such as the heart 
derangements common to persons first visiting high 
altitudes, known as " mountain or balloon sickness," 
and the " caisson disease" of tunnel workers or others 
laboring in compressed air. 

A sudden increase or decrease of atmospheric pressure 
is especially injurious to all persons suffering from heart 
or lung diseases. 

By an arrangement of air locks, workmen coming out 
of a caisson may do so safely by a wait of six or eight 
minutes at each lock. Too rapid change of pressure with 
great physical exertion may produce spinal hemorrhage. 

53 



54 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Composition of Air. Air is a transparent, colorless, 
and odorless mixture of oxygen, nitrogen, argon, carbonic 
acid (carbon dioxide), and traces of other substances. 
Ordinarily air is not odorless, but contains scents arising 
from many sources to which we become accustomed and 
do not detect them. 

The average normal composition of air is about as 
follows: oxygen, 21 per cent; nitrogen and argon, 78.7 
per cent; carbon dioxide (carbonic acid), 0.03 per cent; 
aqueous vapor varying with the temperature and other 
conditions ; a trace of ammonia ; and a variable amount 
of ozone, organic and other matters. 

The mixture of the air is mechanical, not chemical, as 
was formerly supposed, its wonderful uniformity being 
maintained by the relative processes of animal and 
vegetable life, and by the law governing the diffusion 
of gases, which is that "a gas expands into a space in 
which there is another gas, as freely and as rapidly as 
if there were a vacuum." 

Oxygen is the element in the air which supports life. 
The normal amount of oxygen in the atmosphere may 
vary slightly, as at sea or near vegetation by day it may 
be slightly increased, or at a great altitude it may be 
a very little less; but at sea level any decrease in amount 
would be readily overcome by the law of diffusion. 

Oxygen is constantly being taken up from the air by 
respiration, and returned to it in combination with car- 
bon, known as carbon dioxide, which is in turn taken up 
by vegetation, the carbon being retained and the oxygen 
returned to the air, thus maintaining the uniformity of 
the atmosphere. 

For sustaining animal life the air must contain not 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 55 

far from a normal amount of oxygen. Human life is 
impossible with less than four fifths of the normal pro- 
portion, and equally so when greatly increased. The 
decrease of oxygen to less than 13 per cent causes 
respiration to become slower and more difficult, and as- 
phyxia and death soon follow. Fatal asphyxia occurs 
very speedily when the volume of oxygen has decreased 
to 3 per cent. 

It is stated that the lungs of an adult man absorb 
about one fourth of the oxygen inhaled, and that he in- 
hales in 24 hours 34 pounds of air, containing something 
over 7 pounds of oxygen, which would mean that slightly 
less than 2 pounds of oxygen is absorbed daily. 

Oxygen is also essential to the growth of vegetation, 
for while plants take up carbon dioxide and exhale 
oxygen, they also breathe as do animals by absorbing 
oxygen and exhaling carbon dioxide. 

Nitrogen, the principal constituent of the atmosphere, 
serves to dilute the oxygen, rendering it respirable, but 
nitrogen takes no further part in animal respiration. 
Nitrogen is absorbed by certain plants (legumes) directly 
from the air and stored for animal use in the form of 
proteids, the original source of nitrogenous foods. 

Argon is a recently (1894) discovered element of air, its 
quantity and purpose still being uncertain. 

Ozone is a normal but inconstant element of air of 
unknown origin, which is almost never found in large 
cities, towns, or inhabited dwellings, but has been 
found in minute quantities (1:700,000) in the open 
country, or at sea. 

Hydrogen, krypton, neon, and several other elements 
have been discovered in traces as constituents of air. 



56 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Carbon dioxide is found in all air, the normal average 
in pure air being 3 parts in 10,000 or 0.03 per cent. 
Carbon dioxide results from the oxidation of organic 
matter, from respiration, fermentation, combustion, and 
chemical action of the soil, and within the limit of 3 
parts to 10,000 may not be considered an impurity of 
the atmosphere. 

The respiration of millions of human beings and ani- 
mals, the combustion of coal, wood, gas, and all other 
fuel, and the huge volumes sent forth by the air from 
the soil, throw tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, 
which is purified of its excess by the absorption of 
it by vegetation and great bodies of water; the latter 
it is said will take up its own volume of the gas. 

It is generally held that a large amount of carbon 
dioxide may be present in the air without producing any 
injurious effects, provided there is an abundance of oxy- 
gen; that the ill effects of impure air arise from the or- 
ganic matter thrown off with the carbon dioxide from 
the skin and lungs. 

A crowded assembly room may contain as high as 
100 parts of carbon dioxide to 10,000. 

The aqueous vapor in the atmosphere varies with the 
temperature, evaporation and condensation going on con- 
tinuously. The higher the temperature the more rapidly 
evaporation takes place. The proportion of humidity 
most agreeable and healthy for human beings is about 
75 per cent of saturation at any given temperature. 

The sources of aqueous vapor in the air are from 
bodies of water, moisture from the soil, from the skin 
and lungs of men and animals, from foliage, and from 
combustion. 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 57 

Ammonia and organic matter exceeding a trace, in 
outdoor air may be regarded as impurities, such con- 
tamination usually arising from putrefaction or from 
certain manufacturing industries. 

Dust is considered a normal constituent of the atmos- 
phere as it is always present, arising from innumerable 
sources. 

Dust may be organic or inorganic (mineral) and is 
lifted by the movements of the air, the organic matter 
being partially oxidized, and the solid parlicles falling 
to the earth. 

Organic dust does not exist in high altitudes. 

Micro-organisms are numerous in the atmosphere of 
cities, towns, and inhabited dwellings. The number 
of bacteria in the air is influenced by the action of the 
winds and the amount of humidity; they are carried some 
distance by the winds, are washed out of the air by 
rain or snow, and may be killed by exposure to sunlight. 

It is a question still in doubt, whether disease germs 
(pathogenic organisms) are ever found in the air without 
being adherent to particles of dust. In considering the 
presence of bacteria in the air it should always be borne 
in mind that by far the greater proportion are harmless. 

Soil air is different from the air above ground, as it 
contains large quantities of the products of putrefac- 
tion which goes on continually in the soil, and also a 
larger proportion of carbon dioxide and other injurious 
gases, the principal one being known as marsh gas. 

In caves and wells, the air may have undergone such 
contamination from putrefaction and chemical changes 
in the earth as to become highly inflammable and unfit 
for respiration. 



58 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Soil air penetrates dwellings because the air of the 
buildings being warmer than the surrounding soil and 
the warm air having an upward tendency, the air is 
drawn (aspirated) from the soil into the dwellings ; hence 
newly made soil, particularly in cities, may be considered 
unhealthy. 

Sewer air in properly constructed sewers which have 
free ventilation, is not now considered as dangerous as 
formerly, as it has been found that the air of such sewers 
differs slightly from the outside air, usually showing a 
little increase of carbon dioxide and less of micro-organ- 
isms. The danger from sewer air arises from any ob- 
struction of the sewer shutting off the ventilation, and 
causing an accumulation of gases arising from putre- 
faction. 

Carbon monoxide is a poisonous gas arising from im- 
perfect combustion of illuminating gas, from leaking 
gas pipes, or from defective coal furnaces or stoves. 

Gas leaking from the mains in the streets into the soil 
is often drawn into dwellings by the difference in the 
temperature inside and outside as cited in the case of 
soil air. Fatal cases of gas poisoning in dwellings are 
recorded, where the gas has been drawn through the soil 
for more than a hundred feet under a well-constructed 
pavement. 

The odor of gas does not always serve as a warning, as 
the soil through which it passes sometimes retains the 
odor. 

Carbon monoxide produces unconsciousness, heart- 
failure, and at high temperature, convulsions; in small 
quantities headache and dizziness are followed by in- 
sensibility. 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 59 

Sources of Impurities in the Atmosphere. The 
sources of the impurities of the atmosphere may be 
divided into two classes, gaseous and solid. 

Of the gaseous, carbon monoxide and dioxide, marsh 
gas, hydrogen sulphide, and gaseous organic substances 
such as ammonia are the most important. 

Dust, organic and inorganic, the debris of animal and 
vegetable organisms, and living micro-organisms consti- 
tute the solid form of atmospheric impurities. Among 
these impurities are included the organic matters from 
the body such as epithelium, sweat, the volatile matters 
from decaying teeth and the digestive tract, and ex- 
creta deposited upon unclean clothing. 

The impurities due to respiration are the decrease of 
oxygen, the increase of carbon dioxide, the increase 
of watery vapor to saturation, and the addition of organic 
matter. It is said while a large amount of carbon dioxide 
may escape with very imperfect ventilation, the aqueous 
vapor and organic matter cling to the surfaces of the 
room and its contents ; the proof of which is the fact that 
after a prolonged airing an odor of organic matter still 
remains in such a room. 

It is generally conceded that impure air is the most 
important exciting cause of disease, and that a normal 
proportion of oxygen in the air is necessary for health, 
this theory being proven by the well-known fact that 
among out-of-door workers the death-rate is very much 
lower than among those employed indoors. Pulmonary 
tuberculosis (phthisis) is especially associated' with over- 
crowding, and the high death-rate of jails and barracks, 
formerly so common, was no doubt due to crowded 
quarters. 



60 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Effects of Bad Air. The immediate effects of inhaling 
impure air are discomfort followed by headache, dizzi- 
ness, and nausea, and if continued, as before stated, with 
less than 13 per cent oxygen the respiration becomes 
slow and difficult, perspiration is profuse, and asphyxia 
and death soon result. 

The continued breathing of bad air in lesser quantity 
causes a gradual loss of health manifested by pallor, 
languor, anaemia, loss of appetite, and loss of resistance 
to diseases, the last being one of the most injurious effects. 

The air of workshops and factories contains not only 
the impurities arising from the respiration and per- 
spiration of workmen, but to combustion from heating 
and lighting ; and to these may be often added overheat- 
ing and overcrowding, besides lack of personal cleanli- 
ness. 

Certain occupations expose workmen to impure air 
from special sources, such as miners, bakers, workers in 
silk and cotton mills, in bleaching works, in the manu- 
facture of zinc, steel, brass, wall paper, artificial flowers, 
cutlery, guns, cabinet-making, etc. 

In factories where hides and feathers are used the dust 
is of animal origin. 

Much attention has been given during recent years 
to providing sufficient air space and ventilation for 
workshops and factories, besides apparatus for mechani- 
cally removing the dust or fumes arising from the various 
industries ; many states having passed stringent laws for 
thus protecting workers. 

The impurities of the air in dwellings arise from res- 
piration, perspiration, combustion, faulty sewerage, 
and very largely from bad housekeeping, which permits 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 61 

uncleanliness of the dwelling and its occupants. With 
fairly good ventilation the air of a dwelling cannot be 
pure if it be filled with dusty carpets, curtains, and 
walls ; if both bed and body clot hing be soiled, if cellars, 
pantries, and ice boxes are filled with decaying food 
and unclean utensils, if bath rooms and kitchen sinks 
are dirty and drain pipes filled with an accumulation 
of grease and other filth. It is not too much to say that 
most dwellings would have better air if there were less 
furniture and decoration, and more attention paid to 
everyday cleanliness. 

In hospitals the sources of impurities in the air are the 
same as in dwellings, multiplied by many degrees and to 
which may be added the manifold germs of disease and 
exhalations from the bodies of sick persons, thus requir- 
ing especial care in guarding against overcrowding and 
overheating, and in providing perfect cleanliness in every 
detail of housekeeping and nursing. 

In schools and other assembly rooms the impurities 
of the air are mainly due to overheating and overcrowd- 
ing, together with the effects of respiration, perspiration, 
and combustion. 

The impure air of large office buildings, courthouses, 
railway stations, day and sleeping cars is aggravated 
by the almost universal fault of overheating, which, 
taken together with the impurities of respiration, com- 
bustion, uncleanliness, and faulty ventilation, produce 
an enormous volume of foul air. 



62 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

SECTION II 

CLIMATE, VENTILATION 

The climate of a locality depends mainly upon its 
distance from the equator, its height above sea level, its 
nearness to large bodies of water, and to its prevailing 
winds. 

Given the same distance from the equator and the sea, 
a mountain locality will have a cooler climate than a 
lower level. 

The middle of a continent is subject to extremes of 
heat and cold unknown on the seacoast, while the 
latter is much more humid. 

The prevailing winds are governed by the presence 
'or absence of mountain ranges. 

Climate is usually designated as temperate, -polar, or 
tropical. 

Climate and Health. In tropical climates disorders 
of the liver, digestion, and nervous system are common, 
while in the polar climate the digestion is good, the 
nervous system sluggish, muscular development greater 
than in the tropics, but lung and kidney diseases are 
prevalent. 

The temperate climate is therefore the healthiest as 
there is less continued strain upon the organs of the 
body than in the extremes of heat and cold of the tropics 
and polar regions. 

The effects of a tropical climate upon persons coming 
from a temperate zone, are bleaching of the skin, some- 
times due to anaemia but generally ascribed to the pro- 
fuse perspiration, sluggishness, and relaxation, loss of 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 63 

appetite, impaired digestion due principally to drinking 
too freely to supply the loss of fluids by perspiration, 
and the common excessive use of alcohol. It is said that 
the tropical climate acts especially unfavorably upon 
the female organism. 

The infectious diseases, yellow fever, cholera, plague, 
dysentery, and malaria, prevail in tropical climates. 
The influence of climate upon certain diseases is well 
known; that of such regions as the Rocky Mountains, 
southern California, and the mountains of North Car- 
olina, which are particularly dry, being beneficial to 
tuberculosis, while the damp cool climate of England 
and the region of the Great Lakes of the United States 
is no doubt the cause of the lung and kidney diseases 
which prevail with alarming frequency during the winter 
months. 

Season exerts a marked influence upon mortality, 
deaths from diseases of the respiratory system occur 
more frequently in winter and those from intestinal 
diseases during the summer, notably typhoid fever and 
the infantile diarrhoeas. 



VENTILATION 

By the term " ventilation," we understand a process by 
which a constant supply of pure air is introduced into 
buildings or rooms, with a simultaneous discharge of 
impure air. But it is well for us to understand that at 
the best it is impossible to provide as pure air indoors 
as outdoors, it being held that any system of ventila- 
tion which limits the amount of carbon dioxide to 6 or 
7 parts in 10,000 may be called good; and also that no 



64 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

system of ventilation, no matter how perfect, can do much 
more than remove the impurities due to respiration and 
combustion; the solid and organic matter due to filth 
can only be removed by the practice of cleanliness both 
inside and outside the building. 

Given cleanliness of a building and its contents, the 
need for ventilation is somewhat limited, a point of 
much importance in a climate like that of the northern 
part of the United States where artificial heating is 
required for more than half of the year. 

The amount of air required is from 30 to 50 cubic 
feet per minute for each person to maintain a fair degree 
of health; less than 30 will produce impaired vitality. 
At such a rate a person in a confined space would re- 
quire 3000 cubic feet of air hourly properly to dilute the 
impure air from his own respirations. 

The supply of fresh air must be constant to prevent 
an accumulation of impurities which would occur were 
the air replaced only by an occasional renewal. 

The minimum cubic space required for each person 
at the rate of providing 3000 cubic feet of air hourly 
would be 500 cubic feet, allowing one fourth more in 
hospitals and sick rooms. But this would require that 
the air be changed six times hourly a process almost 
entirely impracticable in our winter climate. 

Changing the air three times hourly with an allowance 
of 1000 cubic feet to each person may be carried out 
under favorable circumstances, but in winter this is 
impossible in the majority of dwellings. 

The space allowed for each person may be less for large 
assembly halls than for living rooms, as it is much easier 
to change the air without perceptible draughts in large 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 65 

rooms than small, and also for the reason that an assem- 
bly hall is occupied for only a comparatively short time. 

To ventilate without draughts in small rooms presents 
many difficulties, as diffusion takes place much less 
rapidly than in larger spaces and the inlets and outlets 
are necessarily very near together. 

Natural Ventilation. The natural forces which are 
constantly at work at all times and to a great extent 
control ventilation whether buildings are provided with 
special apparatus or not, are diffusion, and the difference 
in the density of air at different temperatures. 

The diffusion of carbon dioxide and other gaseous 
impurities from a room into the outer air takes place not 
only through the windows, doors, and crevices, but through 
the walls and ceilings, the amount of diffusion depending 
upon the porosity of building material, the difference 
between the outdoor and indoor temperature, and the 
direction and force of the wind. 

Dampness in the walls prevents diffusion, which is one 
reason for the unhealthfulness of damp dwellings. 

The action of the wind works in two ways: by per- 
flation (blowing through) and aspiration (drawing out), 
as the wind blowing across a chimney or ventilat- 
ing flue creates an upward current. Thus a fireplace 
affords a means of ventilation. The movement of air is 
caused by the difference in the weight of masses of air 
of different temperatures, the warmer air being lighter 
expands and rises, being displaced by heavier and colder 
air; the greater the difference in temperature of these 
masses the more rapid the movement. 

The chief force in natural ventilation therefore is 
movement of the air. 



66 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



The more tightly fitting windows and doors are made, 
and the more impervious the walls are built, the more 
obstruction is offered to natural ventilation, but inlets 
and outlets properly placed afford assistance to natural 
ventilation which may be supplemented by the temporary 
opening of doors or windows. 

Inlets and outbts for ventilation should be placed 
according to the size, position, and method of heating 
the building or room, as no hard and fast rules are pos- 
sible which would cover all conditions; the intake for 
pure air entering the building should, however, always 
be raised some distance above ground to avoid street 
dust. By a series of experiments the following general 
conclusions may be drawn ; that the best results obtain 




FIG. 1. Proper inlet and outlet for ventilation. (Carpenter.) 

when the inlet for a room is on the side of a room near 
the top, and the outlet is in the bottom near the center. 
In order to prevent draughts the movements of the 
inlet air must be slow, agreeable in temperature, and its 
humidity neither too high nor too low. The current 
of air may be broken by subdividing the openings of 



AIR ; CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 67 

both inlets and outlets and especially the inlet 
opening. 

Unless they are heated artificially the inlet flues 
should not be placed in the outside walls, as the cooling 
of the column of air may produce down draughts. The 
air flues or shafts should be circular in shape with smooth 
inside surfaces and with as few angles as possible which 
interfere with air currents. 

It should be borne in mind that unless air shafts are 
properly placed the air currents, following the natural 
laws which govern them, may be reversed, and ventila- 
tion be entirely defeated. 

Partial ventilation may be secured sometimes by 
placing a board 4 or 6 inches wide fitted under the 
lower window sash, which prevents a draught by 
directing the current of air upward between the two 
sashes. 

A screen frame covered with cheesecloth or light- 
weight flannel, fitted at either the top or bottom of the 
window, provides a partial ventilation without draught 
and excludes soot and dust. 

There are many patented devices for window ventila- 
tion, such as sliding or revolving panes, some satisfac- 
tory and others useless. 

Mechanical Ventilation. In large buildings, such as 
hospitals, theaters, and schools, mechanical ventilation 
becomes a necessity, the especial advantage being that 
thorough ventilation may always be accomplished in 
any and all variations of weather. 

Two systems of mechanical .ventilation are used: 
propulsion or " plenum" system, and abstraction or 
"vacuum" system. 



68 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

In the plenum system the air is drawn into a box by 
the revolving blades of a fan, and propelled through a 
central shaft with the necessary branches leading to 
various parts of the building; when desired, the air may 
be first received into a chamber and heated. The air 
supply is regulated by the number of revolutions of the 
fan. 

The abstraction or vacuum system abstracts the air from 
through pipes leading to a central shaft, where it is 
drawn in by a fan and discharged outward. This system 
is said to be less satisfactory in that, by the vacuum 
created, cold air is drawn in through all crevices, causing 
draughts and cold floors to prevail ; likewise more fuel 
is required. 

A combination of both plenum and vacuum systems 
has been found most satisfactory. 1 

The filtration of air for certain buildings is carried on 
to some extent, the filtration being either through water 
or cloth. 

"In the building of the American Bell Telephone Co. 
in Boston the air is drawn into and through a system 
of large cotton bags 30 feet in length, in which all dirt 
and dust is retained. About a peck per month is sepa- 
rated in this way from the air, which is drawn,not from the 
street level, but far above it. An analysis, chemical and 
microscopical, made in April, 1897, showed 22.67 per cent 
organic and 77.33 of inorganic matter; the material 
consisted of all manner of animal, mineral, and vegetable 
substances ordinarily present in the dust of cities." 2 

1 Supplementary Lesson. Primary Nursing Technique, Mclsaac, 
p. 11. 

2 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 69 

SECTION III 

HEATING, LIGHTING 

The heating and ventilation of buildings are so inter- 
dependent that they must necessarily be considered in 
connection. 

Fresh air in abundance is required for the process of 
combustion, to replace the impure air arising from the 
consumption of oxygen by combustion, and to replace the 
heated air which escapes. 

Required Temperature. An average temperature of 
70 F. for living rooms and 65 F. for bedrooms is 
considered the healthiest degree of warmth for vigorous 
adults, with a slightly higher temperature for children 
and the aged; but the warmth required by different 
individuals in good health varies to a wide degree and in- 
flexible rules are impossible to follow. That overheating 
is a serious fault in the majority of buildings is evident, 
and it is further noticeable that men endure or require 
a much higher degree of heat than women. 

Systems of Heating. There are three systems of 
heating in common use : direct radiation, indirect radia- 
tion, and direct-indirect radiation. 

Direct radiation is from a fireplace, or from a stove 
or steam coil in the room. Heat from a stove or steam 
coil is less radiant than from a fireplace, as the air is 
heated and brought into circulation in the room, known 
as heating by convection. 

Indirect radiation is accomplished by heated air being 
carried by flues from a central heating point to various 
rooms of a building, such as a hot-air furnace. 

Direct-indirect radiation is where the heating surfaces 



70 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

are in the rooms, with the addition of an arrangement 
for admitting outside air which may be cut off, making 
direct radiation. 

Fireplaces heat almost entirely by radiation, and while 
removing the impurities of combustion to a large degree they 
heat only one side of a body ; there being little convection, 
they produce draughts, a large amount of heat is lost 
through the chimney, and they are liable to smoke with 
certain winds ; but as a part of other heating systems 
or to be used in moderate weather, and as a promoter of 
cheerfulness, particularly in a sick room, the fireplace 
has a distinct value. 

Stoves are an economical mode of heating, but the dust 
and extreme dry ness of the air are Very objectionable, 
besides the great amount of labor which must be ex- 
pended in caring for them. 

Hot-water and steam heating systems each require an 
especial piping for conveying the hot water or steam 
to the various parts of the building. 

It is said that the installation of the hot-water system 
is more expensive than for steam, but the expense of 
running is less. Hot-water heating is more suitable 
for small buildings, such as dwellings, and steam heat for 
the large buildings, such as hospitals, large apartment 
or office buildings, courthouses, etc. 

Steam heating in moderate-sized buildings is usually 
by direct radiation, the radiators being placed in each 
room; but in the large buildings indirect radiation is 
employed by placing the radiators in a box in the 
ventilating flue, preferably near the top, which may be 
regulated by dampers sometimes controlled by thermo- 
stats. 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 71 

Again, in many more modern buildings of great size, 
the radiators are arranged in stacks and the hot air 
propelled by fans through the flues to every part of the 
building, which enables fresh air at a certain temperature 
to be supplied, being considered the best method of 
heating large areas which has yet been devised. 

The hot-air furnace is not suitable for the larger build- 
ings, but for an ordinary dwelling is an economical and 
satisfactory means of heating. 

The dryness of the air is an objection to the hot-air 
furnace which is not difficult to overcome. The fact 
that ventilation is obstructed when the heat is cut off 
is the principal objection to the hot-air furnace, other- 
wise the ventilation should be very good if the inlet 
opens to the outside air some distance above the ground 
level. The practice of having the inlet for fresh air open 
directly into the basement is obviously dangerous, 
particularly in cities, where the basement floors and 
walls are not impervious and may admit large quan- 
tities of soil air mixed with escaped gas from leaking 
pipes. 

The position of flues and registers from hot-air fur- 
naces should be decided by the prevailing winds, it being 
said that hot air will move less than ten feet against 
a cold wind, and will easily carry fifty feet with the wind. 

Electrical heating systems have not yet been perfected 
sufficiently to put them within the means of people of 
moderate incomes, although electricity is used in a 
small way for heating small quantities of water, cooking 
single articles as with a chafing-dish, for ironing, and for 
supplying heat for the various hot applications used in 
hospitals, 



72 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Electric fans are employed for assisting ventilation. 

Gas heating is employed in certain localities supplied 
with natural gas, which is used instead of coal in hot-air 
furnaces and in both hot-water and steam heating 
systems, giving a very cleanly easy method, as there is no 
dust nor ashes to remove ; but especial attention must be 
given to ventilation and the adjustment of all gas pipes 
and burners, to prevent the leakage of gas. 

Portable gas stoves and oil stoves are in common use for 
heating small rooms, and possess the great advantage 
of carrying easily to the place where needed. The 
great objection to both is in the consumption of oxygen 
and the throwing off of a corresponding amount of 
carbon dioxide, together with the unpleasant odors. 
Gas stoves may be easily supplied with an outlet pipe 
carried into the fireplace or window, and oil stoves, by 
being kept well filled and perfectly clean, may have the 
odor reduced to a minimum, but in both instances 
ventilation should receive especial attention. 

A small tin oven set upon the top of a gas stove or 
oil stove will serve for a radiator, and hasten the heating 
of a room. 

The lack of moisture in all heated buildings may be 
easily remedied in the household by intelligent super- 
vision, but can seldom be trusted to the care of servants ; 
shallow basins of water put upon the back of stoves or 
radiators where heating by direct radiation is employed 
is all that is necessary, but the basins must be kept con- 
stantly filled. 

The newer steam heating systems for large buildings 
are usually supplied with a spray of water over the stacks 
of radiators, which supplies the necessary moisture. 



AIR, CLIMATE, VENTILATION, HEATING, LIGHTING 73 

It has been found that in buildings thus equipped the 
occupants are much freer from coughs and colds than 
where the air is exclusively dry, and also that a lesser 
degree of heat is perfectly comfortable, which makes a 
considerable item of economy in fuel. 



LIGHTING 

Buildings are lighted by the natural method of day- 
light admitted through windows or artificially by means 
of burning gas, oil, or candles, or by electricity. 

The proper natural lighting of all buildings is one of 
great importance to health, the direct rays of the sun 
being one of the greatest factors in promoting vigor 
of mind and body. 

Persons working by artificial light during the day, 
soon become pale and languid, gradually losing mental 
and physical vigor. 

The influence of light upon health has been the subject 
of extensive scientific research during recent years, 
leading to much improvement in the natural lighting of 
new buildings and to the treatment of certain diseases 
by certain rays of light. The women of the household 
and hospital should supplement the improved building 
arrangements by removing all elaborate window dra- 
peries, especially in cities where every ray of light and 
breath of air is needed and should not be restricted. 

Electricity is by far the best method of artificial 
lighting, as the combustion of gas, oil, or candles adds 
impurities to the atmosphere, and except in the case of 
the Welsbach burners, gives a feebler light. Another 
serious objection to oil lamps besides the great labor 



74 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 






needed to care for them, is in their almost universal 
improper position in relation to the eyes. The old- 
fashioned hanging and bracket lamps which put the 
light in the upper part of the room where it belongs 
are almost never seen. Standing table lamps without 
shades should never be permitted, particularly where 
there are children. 



CHAPTER IV 

SOIL, WATER 

THAT health is dependent to a greater or less degree 
upon the soil has been a long recognized fact. That 
from the soil we derive our drinking water and that nearly 
all garbage is returned to the soil compels men to seriously 
consider the relations of the public health to the soil 
upon which we live. 

Soil is a mixture of sand, clay, and other mineral sub- 
stances to which are added humus or organic matter 
and living organisms. 

The soil is porous and contains varying amounts of 
air and water, the health of a community depending 
greatly upon the amount and purity of the soil air and 
soil water. 

The purity of the soil air and water depends upon the 
amount of organic matter contained in the soil, hence 
the danger to health from filth deposited upon the soil. 

Soil Air. The composition and entrance of soil air 
into dwellings have been mentioned in the foregoing 
chapter on air (see p. 57). 

Soil or ground water is rain water which has pene- 
trated the soil and which contains some of the dissolved 
mineral constituents of the soil, as well as decaying 
organic matter and bacteria derived from the soil. 

Damp soil predisposes to diseases of the lungs, rheu- 

75 



76 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

matism, and malaria, although in all cases the relation 
is indirect. 

Pathogenic Bacteria in the Soil. Some pathogenic 
bacteria, such as the bacilli of anthrax, tetanus, malig- 
nant oedema, typhus fever, tuberculosis, cholera, and ty- 
phoid fever, are capable of living, and some of them, 
notably tetanus, of multiplying in the soil. 

The position or configuration of the soil as well as the 
constituents has much to do with health. The high 
lands being better drained and consequently drier are 
more healthful than low lying lands. In the low lands 
health depends upon the constituents of the soil itself. 
It is only by the most systematic drainage and disposal 
of garbage that the modern city escapes the devastations 
of the plagues which prevailed in ancient times. 

WATER 

Composition of Water. Pure water, which is never 
found outside of the laboratory, is colorless, odorless, 
and tasteless, of neutral reaction, and composed of 11.11 
parts hydrogen and 88.89 parts oxygen, the chemical 
formula being H 2 0. 

Water contains a great variety of substances, both 
mineral and organic, which it derives from the air and soil. 

The amount of dissolved mineral matter contained 
in water depends upon the soil from which it is taken, 
some waters containing enormous amounts of mineral 
substances, salt, iron, and lime being most common. 

"The permissible total amount of dissolved mineral 
constituents cannot be stated, but 50 parts in 100,000 
are generally held excessive." * 

1 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



SOIL, WATER 77 

In falling as snow or rain water absorbs both mineral 
and organic matter from the air. From the hygienic 
standpoint water is pure when it contains nothing 
injurious to health, and impure when it is unfit for 
domestic use. 

Water may be classified into rain water, spring 
water, river, lake, and sea water, and artesian or deep 
well water. 

Rain water is the purest of natural waters, but it 
absorbs impurities from the atmosphere through which 
it passes, hence its purity depends upon the locality 
of its falling. 

Spring water is rain water which has penetrated the 
soil, and by its action of solution and oxidation may 
contain the chemical properties of the soil. Springs are 
divided into two classes, common and mineral, the latter 
often containing medicinal qualities of great value 
although unfit for domestic use. 

Spring water is usually of lower temperature than the 
air, and contains few bacteria unless subject to special 
contamination. 

Artesian or deep well water is of the purest, but con- 
tains the chemical properties of the strata through 
which it has passed, which may render it unfit for con- 
stant use. 

Well water from shallow wells is easily polluted by 
surface washings and is usually, hard, while spring water 
is soft. 

River water and other surface waters such as ponds 
or small lakes are derived from the rainfall and from 
springs. 

Water passing over rocky soil is less apt to contain 



78 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

organic matter than water which passes over a more 
porous soil or stands in marshy places, while water pass- 
ing over or through sandstone contains more mineral 
substances. 

The quality of surface water therefore depends upon 
the composition of the soil, season, rainfall, strength of 
the current, amount and character of surrounding vege- 
tation, nearness and number of human habitations and 
other sources of contamination. 

Water of Large Lakes. The composition of lake 
water is variable, but broadly divided into salt and 
fresh water lakes. 

The water of large lakes such as the Great Lakes of the 
United States is remarkably pure at a sufficient distance 
from shore to be unpolluted by sewage. 

Sea water is of alkaline reaction and contains many 
chemical properties rendering it unfit for domestic or 
commercial use. 

Impurities in Water. The impurities contained in 
water are those substances which directly or indirectly 
may be injurious to health, and may be solid or in solu- 
tion, gaseous, organic, or inorganic. 

"It may be laid down as a general rule, regardless of 
the fact that all impurities do not necessarily breed 
disease or undermine the health, that all water containing 
or likely to contain domestic sewage, abundant growths 
of minute vegetable and animal organisms, decompos- 
ing matter of animal origin, dissolved vegetable matter 
of an inherently toxic nature or undergoing decomposi- 
tion, or excessive amounts of mineral matter, should 
not be accepted as fit for human consumption. Es- 
pecially should we bear in mind that water which is 



SOIL, WATER 79 

quite free from disease organisms and toxic matter to-day 
may contain them in abundance to-morrow." * 

Mineral matter in water is usually connected with 
certain disorders such as follow the change from a soft 
to a hard water, which may cause constipation with an 
occasional attack of diarrhoea; or the change from a 
hard to a soft water, which may produce great looseness 
of the bowels. Goitre, a disease very common in 
Switzerland, France, and some parts of India, has long 
been attributed to mineral in the water, but recent in- 
vestigations have made this theoiy doubtful, and while 
evidently due to the water is not due to its mineral 
contents. Lead poisoning from the action of water 
upon lead water pipes occurs not infrequently. Soft 
water and distilled water are said to be greater solvents 
of lead than hard water. 

Organic pollution of water arises from dead organic 
vegetable or animal matter and living organisms, which 
may be either vegetable or animal. The sources of the 
organic pollution of water are from surface washings, 
the discharge of sewage into the water supply, and vege- 
table growths. The three infectious diseases which 
may be said positively to be carried by water are cholera, 
dysentery, and typhoid fever. 

Yellow fever and malaria w r ere formerly attributed 
to polluted drinking water, but recent investigations 
have proven that both are carried by other means. 
Cholera being an almost unknown disease in this coun- 
try the epidemics of typhoid fever concern us most. 

Contrary to a prevailing opinion, ordinary sewage 
pollution does not necessarily cause cholera nor typhoid 

1 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



80 HYGIENE FOE NURSES 

fever, the water must contain -the specific germs of the 
diseases. Formerly it was supposed that the germ of 
typhoid was found only in the fecal discharges of the 
patient, but it is now known to be found in the urine 
for a much longer period, even after convalescence. In 
the country these discharges are usually deposited in 
the privy vault or upon the soil, in either case they are 
readily washed or filtered into the well or stream afford- 
ing drinking water. Many outbreaks of typhoid fever 
have been traced from the locality in which they oc- 
curred to villages and towns higher up on the stream, 
discharging their sewage into the stream. 

"In districts where water supplies are obtained from 
shallow wells, there is probably no more active cause of 
the spread of this disease than pollution of the soil by 
cesspools and privies. In such localities the soil is often 
saturated with the contents of privies into which not only 
normal intestinal contents find their way, but also the 
evacuations of individulas suffering from this malady. 
It is therefore plain that the most important domestic 
prophylactic measures consist in the disinfection of the 
bowel discharges from all suspicious cases of intestinal 
trouble and the subsequent disposal of such discharges 
by some method which will remove them quickly and 
completely from the neighborhood of human habitations. 
This latter is to be accomplished in cities only by an 
efficient sewerage system. In the country, where sewers 
do not exist, reliance must be placed in the disinfection 
of the stools and their final disposal upon the soil." 1 

1 For examples of Typhoid Fever and Cholera Epidemics, see 
Harrington's Practical Hygiene, p. 379. Hygiene of Transmissible 
Diseases, Abbott. 



SOIL, WATER 81 

Bacteria are found in all natural waters, but the im- 
portant hygienic point is to determine whether the 
water contains the germs of any specific disease. The 
appearance of water may be extremely deceptive, as 
polluted water may be clear, sparkling, and odorless. On 
the contrary, pure water may be discolored from mineral 
or vegetable causes and frequently has an odor as well 
as an unpleasant taste. 

The purity of water can only be determined in the 
laboratory. 

The amount of water per capita daily supplied in a 
large number of cities in the United States varies from 
300 gallons in Denver to 48 gallons in New Orleans, 
the average being about 150 gallons ; this includes water 
for all domestic and commercial purposes. 

The purification of water is accomplished by physical, 
chemical, and mechanical means. 

Formerly mechanical means only were employed, a 
water that was clear being considered fit for drinking 
purposes, but with the knowledge acquired by recent 
investigations it is now known to be of much more im- 
portance to free the water of all pathogenic bacteria as 
well as of some harmful mineral substances. 

Self -purification of Water. That the water of run- 
ning streams and lakes is largely self-purifying has long 
been recognized. This self -purification occurs by sedi- 
mentation or the settling of solid matter and by oxi- 
dation, whereby in its movement the water comes in 
contact with oxygen which oxidizes the organic matter; 
sunlight also destroys some bacteria. 

The entrance of pure water from tributary streams 
dilutes polluted water, rendering it less harmful; many 



82 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

water plants purify water of undissolved organic sub- 
stances, and pathogenic bacteria may be destroyed by 
the saprophytic class. 

An interesting sample is cited by Jordan l of observa- 
tions made along the Chicago drainage canal and its 
connecting rivers, the Des Plaines, Illinois, and Missis- 
sippi. 

"In the flow of twenty-four miles between Morris 
and Ottawa, the river freed itself from a great mass of 
sewage bacteria with which it was originally laden, and 
at Ottawa this was not greatly in excess of that found 
in the flow of tributary streams." 

However, self-purification is not sufficient to render 
water fit for drinking purposes which has been largely 
polluted. 

Chemical purification is employed to cause an in- 
soluble precipitate, which settles, carrying solid matters 
including bacteria. 

Where excessive hardness of water is due to calcium 
bicarbonate (chalk), lime to the extent of fourteen or 
fifteen hundredweight to each million gallons of water 
is used. This is commonly practiced in the south of 
England where much of the water comes from chalk 
beds. 

Alum, one grain per gallon, is sometimes employed to 
purify polluted water. "Although alum in large quanti- 
ties is undoubtedly injurious to health, it is neither a 
violent nor cumulative poison; and the proposition that 
one part of alum in a million parts of water is injurious 
to health must be regarded as conjective rather than 
as a matter of proof, or even of probability." (Hazen.) 

1 Journ. Exper. Med., Dec. 15, 1900. 



SOIL, WATER 83 

Chlorin, in the form of chloride of lime, and bromin, in 
the form of bromide of potassium, are both used, but it 
has been proven that neither is satisfactory for steriliz- 
ing water upon a large scale. 

Permanganate of potassium has been used for the 
purification of wells in India during cholera epidemics. 
Enough permanganate of potassium is dissolved and 
poured into the well to give it a pink color, which is re- 
peated every twenty-four hours. The results claimed 
however have been disputed. Ozone applied to water 
by an electrical apparatus has been found the most 
efficient chemical method of sterilizing water, but the 
great cost of operation prevents its extended use. 

Water is sometimes treated with borings and scrapings 
of metallic iron. Both water and iron being agitated 
by special machinery, a flocculent precipitate results, 
which settles, carrying the bacteria and organic matter 
with it; the water is then filtered through sand filters, 
the result being sterile water, but this also is an extremely 
expensive process. 

Filtration of the water supplies of large cities has been 
found the most practical and efficient method of puri- 
fication, and is extensively used in both Europe and 
America. The first filter beds for a public water supply 
were constructed in London in 1829 by Simpson to 
clarify the turbid water. 

These beds, which except for unimportant detail were 
identical with those of to-day, were impervious basins 
built of stone and concrete with drains at the bottom 
covered with successive layers of coarse gravel and fine 
sand to half their depth, the sand forming the upper 
layer, the polluted water entering at the top. At first 



84 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

it was supposed that these filters acted only in a me- 
chanical way as straining, but late investigations have 
proved that not only are solid mineral substances re- 
moved and the water made clear, but bacteria and other 
organic matter as well. 

It was found that the first water passing through 
such a filter might be clear but not free from bacteria, 
but after several hours a fine deposit of sediment began 
to form upon the surface of the fine sand which proved 
to be capable of mechanically removing the bacteria. 
Still further, the organisms themselves " acting as 
saprophytes decompose the organic matter and even 
kill the pathogenic bacteria." l 

Where the water supply comes from a turbid river, 
preliminary settling basins are used before filtration. It 
is extremely interesting to note that the modern process 
of sand filtration is identical with Nature's process 
which has been going on since the Creation. 

Sand filters are cleaned by shutting off the water 
supply and allowing the basins to drain out completely. 
The draining of the water draws air through the filter 
which oxidizes much of the organic matter. The layer 
of sediment and an inch and a half or two inches of the 
upper layer of fine sand is then carefully scraped off. 
The frequency of cleaning is determined by the amount 
of sediment which gradually clogs the filter and by the 
daily bacteriological examination of the water, the latter 
being of first importance. 

"An essential in the management of all large filters 
is the daily bacteriological and chemical examination of 
both filtered and unfiltered water. This not only serves 
1 Hygiene and Sanitation, Egbert. 



85 

to give warning of any accident to the filter, but is 
necessary, as the best test of the efficiency is the per- 
centage of bacteria which it takes from unfiltered water. 
Unless a filter is holding back 98 to 99 per cent or more 
of the bacteria it needs close inspection, although it 
must be remembered that it is more difficult to get 
good results from badly polluted water than with one 
which is comparatively pure." 1 

It is the unanimous opinion of the best authorities 
that sand filters to be efficient should be provided in 
numbers to be used in rotation, that the finer the sand 
the better the filtration, that filter beds should be 
covered to prevent freezing in winter and the growth of 
vegetation in summer. 

Where the water is very hard it is sometimes treated 
chemically before filtration. This method is employed 
in New Orleans where the water coming from the 
Mississippi River contains an enormous deposit of sedi- 
ment. Three basins are employed, the first for settling, 
the second for mixing with alum, and the third for filtra- 
tion. The filter beds here require to be cleaned daily 
or oftener, and the cost is estimated to be $600 daily 
for 40,000,000 gallons of water. This great labor and 
expense no doubt accounts for the small per capita 
allowance for New Orleans. 

Domestic Purification of Water. Properly all cities 
and towns having a public water supply should be in 
duty bound to provide pure water, thus avoiding the 
necessity of domestic purification except in villages and 
the country, but such a state of affairs has not yet 
obtained, and meanwhile every well-regulated house- 

1 Hygiene and Sanitation, Egbert. 



86 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

hold not only observes its water supply, but provides 
some means for purifying it when necessary. 

Too much stress cannot be laid upon the prevention 
of water pollution whether the supply be public or 
private. Where water is obtained from shallow wells 
it is not an exaggeration to say that more than half of 
them are polluted by the almost universal practice of 
depositing sewage upon the soil, and from the surface 
washings from privies and barnyards, all of . which 
might easily be prevented by a little intelligent fore- 
thought. Impure water may be sterilized in small 
quantities for drinking and cooking purposes by boiling. 
After standing for an hour it should be strained through 
several thicknesses of clean cotton or linen cloth and 
boiled for one hour in a double boiler tightly closed. 
The use of the double boiler prevents the metallic 
taste so unpleasant when boiled in a teakettle. After 
cooling, the flat taste may be removed by pouring it 
several times from one vessel to another until aera- 
tion has occurred. Distillation is practiced in many 
places to secure pure water such as in the Navy and 
other ships, in hotels, hospitals, and other public insti- 
tutions. In some distilling apparatus air is admitted 
into the condensers and aeration takes place with con- 
densation. 

Domestic filters of many kinds are upon the market, 
but the best authorities pronounce most of them useless 
or worse. 

" According to Parkes the requisites of a good filter are : 
1. That every part shall be easily accessible for cleansing 
or renewing the medium. 2. That the filtering medium 
shall have sufficient purifying power and be present in 



SOIL, WATER 87 

sufficient quantity. 3. That the medium give nothing 
to the water favoring the growth of low forms of life. 

4. That the purifying power be reasonably lasting. 

5. That there be nothing in the construction of the filter . 
itself capable of undergoing putrefaction or of yielding 
metallic or other impurities to the water. 6. That the 
filtering material shall not clog and that the flow of 
water be reasonably rapid. 

"The only domestic filters worthy of the name are 
those which remove mechanically all the bacteria of the 
water, and at the same time add nothing of their own 
substance to the water. Such are the Chamberland- 
Pasteur, the Berkefeld, and others based on the same 
principle. In these the filtering medium is unglazed, 
well-baked, hollow porcelain cylinders closed at one 
end like a test-tube, inclosed within a metallic or glass 
jacket with sufficient intervening space for the water, 
which enters directly from the tap under its usual pres- 
sure or 'head.' The open lower end of the cylinder 
discharges the water which passes directly through the 
walls of the cylinders or 'bougies' in the same way it 
would go through blotting paper. The material is such 
a very fine strainer that it excludes all suspended matters 
whatsoever. All these filtering tubes are purely me- 
chanical in their action, and remove none of the matters 
poisonous or otherwise in solution. While they remove 
and retain on their external surface all the bacteria, 
they cannot prevent the growth of the organisms from 
without inward through their walls, and indeed this 
occurs so quickly that in order to secure absolutely 
sterile water continuously it is necessary to clean and 
sterilize the bougies daily, and thus it is advisable to have 



88 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

two sets, one of which can be cleaned while the other is 
in use." l 

The cleansing of filter tubes consists of thoroughly 
scrubbing the outside followed by baking or boiling for 
at least an hour. 

It is safe to say that far greater danger to life exists 
in an unclean filter than is found in any ordinary water 
supply. 

ICE 

It was formerly supposed that freezing freed water 
of all of its impurities, but such is not the case, as 
many varieties of bacteria, notably that of typhoid 
fever, retain their vitality in ice for a very long time. 

Several epidemics of typhoid fever have been traced 
to ice cut from polluted ponds and rivers. Artificial 
ice is often represented as being absolutely pure, but 
unless it be made from distilled water or sterilized water 
it is open to the same suspicion as natural ice. 

1 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



CHAPTER V 

SEWAGE, GARBAGE 

DOMESTIC sewage is a mixture of urine, feces, paper, 
the waste from bath and laundry tubs and from kitchen 
sinks, while industrial sewage is entirely different. 

The sewage from manufacturing centers often con- 
tains chemicals or other substances destructive to fish 
life, and may contain as much or more organic matter 
than domestic sewage, but the latter is liable to hold 
discharges from infectious diseases which are a menace 
to the public health. 

Removal of Sewage. Sewage may be removed by 
water or the dry method. 

The removal of sewage by water necessitates a system 
of plumbing which should be of the best possible method 
of construction and material. The best plumbing is 
by far the most economical not only in the health of a 
household but in the expense of repairs. 

A good system of plumbing calls for sound materials, 
absolutely tight joints, thorough ventilation, and a 
plentiful supply of water to insure thorough flushing 
without wastefulness. 

To this may be added that plumbing should have 
good daily care. Many bad odors are attributed to 
sewer gas which in reality are simply filth, easily re- 
moved by a thorough scrubbing and flushing with clean 

89 



90 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



hot soapsuds to which has been added a handful of 
washing soda. Long-handled sanitary brushes for clean- 
ing the basins of water-closets will frequently remove 
" sewer gas" most effectively. 

Modern plumbing is "open plumbing," i.e. not put 
into walls nor between floors, but made with all pipes, 
joints, and traps in plain sight except where necessary 
to go through walls or floors, thus giving an opportunity 
to detect leaks, securing ventilation and making repairs 
an easy matter. 

The Soil Pipe. The soil pipe receives the sewage 
from the waste pipes from water-closets, bath and 
laundry tubs, kitchen and housemaids' sinks. This 




FIG. 2. Connection of soil pipe to house drain. 

pipe should be four inches in diameter for a dwelling 
and larger for hospitals or other larger buildings, made 
of heavy iron, and should be as straight as possible, 
extending at least two feet above the roof without a 
cowl to cover it. The unavoidable bends should be 



SEWAGE, GARBAGE 



91 



3 



obtuse, not right angles, and the entering waste pipes 
also should never be at right angles. 

In warm climates the soil pipe should be on the out- 
side of the wall rather than the inside; it should be in 
or near the water-closets to avoid 
carrying the waste pipes beneath 
the floors where leaks are diffi- 
cult to detect or repair. 

The tendency of modern plumb- 
ing is to simplify all fixtures; a 
great improvement to the soil 
pipe is in the flanged ends which 
secure easy adjustment and 
duce the danger of leaks to a 
minimum. 

Traps. Traps are devices to FlG> 3 ._ Improper ben dsin 
prevent the return of sewer-air soil pipe. (Harrington.) 
through the waste pipes into the building. The sim- 
plest trap is made by a bend or bends in the pipes, 
downward in a horizontal pipe and a figure S in a 
perpendicular pipe. 

When water passes through the pipes some of it will 





RUNNING TRAP 




FIGURE S 
TRAP 



be retained in the depressed parts, causing a water seal, 
which prevents the return of sewer air. 
There are several other traps of excellent design in 



92 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

common use, the ball-trap, bell-trap, bottle-trap, Anti-D 
trap, and Mason trap. Each and every waste pipe from 
all water-closets, sinks, wash basins, and laundry tubs 
must be trapped, the trap always being put as near the 
fixture as possible. 

Traps lose their seal by siphonage, evaporation, leak- 
age, and the accumulation of sediment in the trap. 

Siphonage is prevented by ventilating pipes from the 
trap, which connect with a main ventilating pipe. 

Evaporation of the water seal usually results from 
disuse, and may be prevented by pouring glycerine or 
some oil into the pipes when a building is to be closed 
for some time. 

Water-closets should always be lighted and ventilated 
by windows. The old practice of placing such plumb- 
ing in unlighted, unventilated closets literally belonged 
to the dark ages. 

Preferably the plumbing should be put opposite the 
window, which gives a better light for detecting leaks and 
making repairs. The best forms of closet in use at present 
are the short hopper or some form of washout or wash- 
down with flushing rims and a generous flow of water. 

Every water-closet should be supplied with a long- 
handled sanitary brush to immediately remove any 
accumulation of filth on the sides of the closet basin 
which does not yield to the flushing. 

Wash basins and bath tubs were formerly supplied 
with overflow pipes opening from the top of the basin 
or tub; these pipes are particularly objectionable, as 
they collect filth and soon become foul smelling, and are 
almost impossible to clean, while in some cases they 
discharge into the waste pipe below the trap which 



SEWAGE, GARBAGE 93 

allows sewer air free passage into the room. The newer 
arrangement of standpipe overflow is preferable in 
every way. 

Sinks. Kitchen, pantry, and slop sinks should be 
made of impervious material, perferably porcelain or 
iron heavily enameled, or slate. All such sinks require 
the best of daily care. Slop sinks from the nature of 
their use should have particular attention to prevent 
foul odors ; they should never be placed in dark closets, 
and should always be provided with a flushing rim, and- 
in hospitals special fixtures for flushing bedpans should 
be provided. One of the especial reasons why slop 
hoppers, particularly in hospitals, become so foul is be- 
cause they are too small, and their sides as well as the 
walls and floors are splashed with slops. Soda solution, 
about 5 per cent boiling hot, will remove much greasy 
sediment and remove most odors except that of urine, 
which can be neutralized by the use of a 10 per cent 
solution of hydrochloric acid followed by plenty of 
water. The discharge pipes from all sinks as from all 
water-closets should be in plain sight and never inclosed 
in cupboards. 

With good plumbing and good daily care, odors of 
any kind are never present. 

Final Disposal of Sewage. Sewage is finally disposed 
of by discharging into the sea, into streams, by the dry 
method, by chemical treatment, by filtration, by sewage 
farms or irrigation and several other methods. 

In the country, where no sewerage system prevails, the 
sewage discharges into a cesspool. If the cesspool is 
far enough from the well and the soil is porous, the 
cesspool may be built to allow the fluids to drain away 



94 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

into the soil at once, if not, the cesspool must be built 
of impervious material which necessitates frequent clean- 
ing, the solid contents being used as fertilizer. 

A large majority of towns discharge their sewage into 
running streams, a custom which in time will no doubt be 
prohibited with all streams which serve as a water supply. 

Sea-coast towns find the disposal of sewage an easy 
matter, as the elements of sea water cause a precipita- 
tion of solids, and the tide dilutes and carries the im- 
pure water away. 

Dry Method. The dry method for the removal and 
disposal of sewage is known as the pail system or earth 
closet, and is used very little except in the country or 
in the far northern latitudes (Christiania, Norway), 
where the freezing of water pipes prevents the removal 
of sewage by water. 

When used in cities the pail is a divided one, or there is a 
separate receptacle for urine. Dry powdered earth, peat, 
ashes, lime, sawdust, and land-plaster (pulverized gypsum) , 
are all used as deodorants, a supply being kept in the 
closet, each addition to the pail being covered at once. 

From the custom of removal by night, this sewage 
came to be known as night-soil. 

The night-soil from cities is usually treated chemically 
and either buried or spread upon the soil as manure. 

By investigation it has been found that the earth 
may be dried and used repeatedly, as it purifies itself in 
time. 

The chemical treatment of sewage is accomplished by 
passing the sewage 'through coarse screens and treating 
it with alum, lime, sulphate of iron or clay, besides 
othT combinations of chemicals. The precipitate, called 



SEWAGE, GARBAGE 95 

sludge, is used as a fertilizer, and the remaining fluid is 
discharged into streams, in some cases being previously 
sand-filtered as was described for drinking water. 

"The conditions necessary for success from chemical 
treatment are as follows : 

" 1. The sewage should be treated while fresh. 

" 2. The chemicals should be added to the flowing 
sewage and thoroughly mixed with it before it passes 
into the settling tanks. 

" 3. There should be a liberal amount of tank space. 

" 4. The arrangements for the removal of sludge 
should be such as to insure its frequent removal." 1 

Sand filtration of sewage consists of discharging the 
sewage into especially prepared sand filters which are used 
in rotation, one half day at a time, to allow for the entrance 
of oxygen and give the saprophytic bacteria an opportunity 
to convert the organic impurities into simple compounds. 

The land is under-drained at a depth of five or six 
feet; an acre, it is said, will purify the sewage from 2000 
persons, and of 5000 persons when the sewage has been 
chemically treated or " settled." 

By the irrigation method of disposal the sewage is 
discharged upon the land for fertilizing purposes. This 
method is employed in a large number of English towns 
and in Berlin and other German cities. 

In the United States it has been adopted in few of 
the smaller cities except in Colorado and California, 
where a number of the cities utilize the sewage for irriga- 
tion purposes. Such a method is not adaptable for large 
cities in this country where adjacent lands are so expen- 
sive and not always of the proper quality for the pur- 

1 Principles of Hygiene, Bergey. 



96 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

pose, and if there is not enough land the soil becomes 
heavy with filth and unproductive as well as dangerous. 
Also in cold climates such an arrangement is not satis- 
factory. In Madras, India, the climate being very hot 
eight crops a year are taken from the " sewage farms." 
It is said that the health of those living near the sewage 
farms does not suffer. 

"An extensive outbreak of typhoid fever in Paris 
would be supposed to be the forerunner of another of 
greater comparative severity, where its sewage contain- 
ing all the bowel discharges and urine of sick and well 
alike is treated; but experience has demonstrated that 
such is not the case, for in 1882, for instance, when Paris 
suffered from an unusually extensive outbreak of that 
disease, there was not a single case at Gennevilliers." 1 

The reasons given for this are that the saprophytic 
bacteria destroy the organic matter and the pathogenic 
organisms, and the water is taken up by the growing 
vegetation or filtered through the soil before entering the 
streams, Nature's own perfect method of purification. 

Irrigation upon a small scale for country houses or 
small hamlets consists of discharging the sewage into a 
reservoir through a wire basket, and from there through 
three or four outlets made of porous drainage tiles as 
in any underdrain ; in this way the sewage is utilized for 
fertilizing lawns or gardens. Several other methods and 
combinations of methods are used, notably the Cameron 
"Septic Tank" process, which, contrary to the usual pro- 
cedure, treats the sewage after it has been stored away 
from light and air until the organic matter has broken 
down, when it is drained into open air tanks and filtered. 

1 Practical Hygiene, Harrington. 



SEWAGE, GARBAGE 97 

GARBAGE 

By garbage is meant all the waste material from a 
household, such as kitchen refuse, ashes, sweepings, 
paper, old shoes, dishes and cooking utensils, clothing, 
etc. Of these the kitchen and stable refuse in large 
cities are the most important, as any accumulation soon 
becomes a menace to health. 

In well-regulated cities, kitchen slops are kept sepa- 
rate from ashes and other dry refuse, the former 
being collected daily and the latter twice or thrice 
weekly. 

The following form of ordinance covers the regula- 
tions in force in New York, Boston, and other cities. 

"Section 1. That it shall be unlawful for any person 
or persons to keep in his house or on his land any kitchen 
garbage or offal unless the same is placed in water- 
tight vessels free from ashes and other refuse matter 
(except food cans and food bottles). 

" Section 2. No person shall place or keep in or near any 
building, ashes or cinders in such a manner as to cause fire, 
nor mix them with other substances nor place or keep them 
except in metallic vessels so placed as to be easily removed. 

" Section 3. All other refuse such as paper, rags, 
excelsior, straw mattress, old clothing, pasteboard 
boxes, carpet and other household waste shall be kept 
in suitable vessels free from ashes and garbage, or in 
bundles firmly fastened so as to prevent rubbish from 
being scattered in handling, and protected from the 
weather until collected by the proper authority. 

"Section 4. Ashes placed out for removal, shall be 
moistened sufficiently to keep down the dust while 



98 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

handling and placed within 4 feet of the building line 
in vessels which will hold their contents without spilling; 
shall be placed out only on the day set for their removal, 
and taken in when emptied of the r contents." 

Disposal of Garbage. There are several methods for 
the final disposal of garbage. 

In the country it is a simple matter if properly man- 
aged, as all kitchen refuse may be fed to poultry or farm 
animals, all dry refuse may be easily burned out-of-doors, 
and cans, bottles, and old iron buried, where tin and 
iron speedily disintegrate. Glass should always be 
buried to prevent accident to the feet of both men and 
animals. In large towns and cities, however, the dis- 
posal of garbage becomes a serious question both from 
a hygienic and an economic standpoint. It is safe to 
say that one half or more of the enormous expenditure 
now required of most cities might be avoided if every 
household and manufactory looked after its garbage as 
it might. 

A large amount of kitchen and other refuse could 
easily be burned in the range or furnace, and if done 
immediately would give rise to no worse odors than 
comes from cooking. 

An ingenious device for burning kitchen refuse is 
used in many households, consisting of an enlarged por- 
tion of the pipe of the kitchen range, having a door, 
into which is put a wire basket containing the refuse, 
which is soon dried of all moisture and reduced to a char- 
coal and may be used for fuel. No odors escape into 
the room, and there is no interference with the draught. 

For hospitals and other large institutions, portable 
furnaces have been devised which are simple and satis- 



SEWAGE, GARBAGE 9& 

factory, eliminating bad odors and requiring little extra 
fuel. ' 

The garbage from large cities is dumped into the sea 
or upon the land, the kitchen refuse is sometimes sold 
to farmers for feeding to swine, or the whole is sorted 
and what cannot be sold or utilized is destroyed 
or reduced in especially built furnaces called " de- 
structors." 

Dumping garbage into the sea is particularly objec- 
tionable, as with favoring winds and tides a large propor- 
tion of it is thrown upon the neighboring beaches, where 
it is not only unsightly and offensive but puts an end to 
sea-bathing. 

Dumping upon the land is perhaps a shade worse, as 
it becomes offensive to a vast area which surrounds the 
"dump grounds." \ 

The disposal of slops or " swill" to farmers is also 
offensive, giving forth foul odors and usually leaking 
along the highway. This practice usually means that 
such slops must wait for cartage, which results in their 
putrefaction and accompanying indescribable odors. 

Incineration has been successfully carried on in Eng- 
land for many years. 

The garbage is sorted and much of the refuse, such as 
old rubber, leather, and woolen goods, is sold, also the 
solder from tin cans. Old furniture, paper, and paste- 
board is used for fuel in the furnaces which burn the 
other garbage. These furnaces not only cremate the 
refuse but destroy the foul vapors and gases arising from 
the combustion; this point is essential, otherwise they 
become public nuisances. It is said that the experiment 
has failed repeatedly in the United States for this reason, 



100 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

although where properly managed the process has proven 
entirely satisfactory. 

The reduction of kitchen garbage is accomplished by 
taking the garbage while perfectly fresh and allowing 
most of the moisture to drain into the sewer. Live 
steam is then turned into it for six hours, when it loses 
about three fourths of its weight in vapor, which is turned 
into condensers and finally into the sewer. The grease 
is removed from the remaining solid matter, which is 
then dried and sold for fertilizer, both being a source 
of considerable revenue. 

Large incinerators or reduction works should be 
located at some distance from the city, as foul odors 
cannot all be eliminated. 



CHAPTER VI 

CAUSES AND DISSEMINATION OF DISEASE 

Pathology is the science which explains the origin, 
causes, history, and nature of disease. 

Etiology is the subdivision of pathology which treats 
of the causes of disease. 

Prophylaxis is the use of precautions to prevent 
disease; "its first function of suppressing or removing 
predisposing conditions is accomplished by sanitation; 
the second, that of destroying or modifying exciting 
causes^ is carried out by disinfection. . . . 

" We may, therefore, say that sanitation is the defensive, 
and disinfection the aggressive part of prophylaxis." * 

The causes of disease are usually broadly divided 
into two classes, direct or exciting causes, and indirect 
or predisposing causes or conditions. 

Of the direct causes there are chemical, such as poisons ; 
physical, such as heat or cold; mechanical, such as in- 
juries; and vital, such as the parasites and bacteria of 
certain specific diseases. 

"An organism capable of producing disease we call 
pathogenic or infective, and the process by which it pro- 
duces disease we know as infection. Diseases therefore 
that depend for their existence upon the presence of 
bacteria in the tissues are infectious diseases." 2 

The indirect or predisposing causes of disease are 

1 Hygiene and Sanitation, Egbert. 

2 Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases, Abbott. 

101 



102 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

age, sex, heredity, race, occupation, and habits. As an 
illustration 1 "the direct cause of tuberculosis is Bacillus 
tuberculosis, while the indirect or predisposing causes 
may be numerous as age, race, occupation, unsanitary 
surroundings, and heredity." 

Resistance to Disease. Individuals vary greatly in 
their degree of resistance to disease. It is known that 
certain cells and substances of the blood called opsonins 
are antagonistic to pathogenic bacteria, " the individ- 
ual infected owes his resistance to four main protective 
powers of the blood. These four protective agencies 
are in character: (1) bactericidal, or having the power 
to kill bacteria ; (2) bacteriolytic, which includes not only 
the power to kill but to dissolve bacteria; (3) agglutinat- 
ing, or possessing the power to produce clumping of 
bacteria; (4) phagocytic, or the power of leucocytes 
(wliite blood corpuscles) to engulf and digest bacteria." 2 

The degree of resistance to certain disease germs is 
determined by the examination of the blood and is 
known as the patient's opsonic index. 

Anything which lowers the general health of the 
individual, such as dissipation, exposure, lack of food, 
overwork, or unsanitaiy modes of living, must neces- 
sarily lessen the resistance or, as it is expressed, lower the 
opsonic index. This is commonly illustrated when 
certain infectious diseases such as scarlet fever or typhoid 
fever are present in a community. Not all children 
exposed to scarlet fever at the same time contract the 

1 Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases, Abbott. 

2 See Opsonic Index and Vaccine Therapy by Ruth Vail, M.D., 
and Mary C. Lincoln, M.D. American Journal of Nursing, Nov., 
1907. 



CAUSES AND DISSEMINATION OF DISEASE 103 

disease, neither do all persons who drink typhoid-in- 
fected water or milk have typhoid fever, the reason being 
in the difference of the susceptibility in different individ- 
uals. A person who is not susceptible to the pathogenic 
(disease) germs of a specific disease, such as smallpox, 
is said to be immune. Immunity may be natural or 
acquired; natural in the case of man's resistance to 
hog cholera and of cattle to typhoid fever. Acquired 
immunity usually follows one attack of certain infectious 
diseases, as in smallpox, scarlet fever, or yellow fever. 
Vaccination to prevent smallpox produces an acquired 
immunity. The use of an antitoxin serum to prevent 
diphtheria is also an example of acquired immunity, 
which is temporary, usually lasting about three weeks. 

Preventive inoculation with sterilized cultures of the 
bacilli of typhoid fever, bubonic plague, and cholera has 
been practiced to a limited degree with varying success. 

Age. The highest death rate occurs among the very 
young and the very old before five and after sixty-five 
years of age. 

Young children suffer from disorders of digestion, 
catarrhal affections, congenital (existing at birth) 
defects, the effects of bad air and lack of cleanliness, 
and certain acute diseases, as scarlet fever, diphtheria, 
measles, and chicken pox. 

Tuberculosis in many different forms also affects 
children as well as adults, it being one of the diseases 
common to all ages. 

Typhoid fever occurs most frequently between the 
ages of fifteen and forty-five. 

Erysipelas, smallpox, and typhus fever are common to 
all ages. 



104 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



Hughes cites " heart, kidney, digestive disorders and 
cancer as common to middle age. Degeneration of the 
heart and blood vessels to old age." 

Persons leading regular lives with proper food, shelter, 
cleanliness, and clothing may be comparatively safe 
from disease, while on the contrary bad air, overcrowding, 
bad or insufficient food, intemperance, exposure, and 
unsanitary occupation lower the vitality and resistance, 
and render men susceptible to sickness. 

Sex is not only a predisposing cause in the diseases 
peculiar to the anatomical differences in the sexes, but 
the statistics of general death rates show almost uni- 
formly a lower rate among women than men; which 
is explained by the fact that the daily life of men exposes 
them more to disease and accident. 

Abbott cites the statistics regarding cancer, anaemia, 
and typhoid fever, which illustrate the influence of age 
and sex upon mortality. 

Deaths among the white population of New York City from Ancemia, 
Typhoid Fever, and Cancer during the six years ending May 31, 
1890, with distinction of age and sex. 





ANAEMIA 


TYPHOID FEVER 


CANCER 


Males 


Females 


Males 


Females 


Males 


Females 


Under 15 years 
From 15 to 40 years 
Over 40 years 
Totals 


22 

18 
19 


27 
46 
37 


152 

828 
213 


138 
526 
148 


24 
222 
1299 


24 

560 
2653 


59 


110 


1193 


812 


1545 


3237 



Race. Certain differences in the susceptibility to 
disease are observed in the races, this being particularly 
noticeable in comparing the whites and blacks. 



CAUSES AND DISSEMINATION OF DISEASE 



105 



The negro is less susceptible to malaria and yellow 
fever than the white man, but is more liable to cholera, 
while the Chinese are the least susceptible to cholera. 

Statistics of the New York census (1890) show that 
"consumption, pneumonia, heart disease, puerperal 
diseases and diseases of the urinary apparatus were 
found to be more fatal among the negro than the native 
white population." The immunity of the Jews from 
disease and their longer duration of life has been observed 
in many countries. 

Giving the male Jewish death rate from Consumption, Scrofula, 
and Hydrocephalus per 1000 total deaths from known causes, 
as compared with the rates similarly calculated for the entire 
population of the United States in 1880 and for that of Massa- 
chusetts in 1888 : l 



Diseases 


Jews 


All United States, 
1880 


All Massachusetts, 
1888 


Consumption 
Scrofula and tabes 
Hyd rocephalus 


36.57 
1.04 
3.13 


108.79 
6.74 
6.43 


129.22 
30.60 
11.74 



Occupation. Certain occupations predispose to dis- 
ease by the conditions surrounding them. 

The inhalation of dust from fabrics, minerals, and hard 
woods are conducive to diseases of the lungs, while 
singularly enough the dust from coal seems to be 
harmless. Dust also is a carrier of infection. 

Soldiers, sailors, and fishermen are exposed to extremes 
of temperature and moisture. 

The overwork and underfeeding common to many occu- 
pations is another important factor in causing disease. 

Lead poisoning occurs with painters and plumbers, 

l The Vital Statistics of the Jews of the United States, Billings. 



106 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

"brass-founder's ague" with workers in brass and zinc, 
while other chemical poisons are common to dyers and 
workmen using arsenic and the anilin dyes. The in- 
halation of gases from iodine, ammonia, chlorine, and 
many other chemicals used in various industries is 
more or less injurious to health. 

Occupations which compel a cramped position, 
especially when in dark, badly ventilated rooms, are a 
menace to health. 

Crowding. It has long been a matter of observation 
that the greater the density of population the higher the 
death rate. 

Overcrowding is a necessary condition of poverty 
which usually entails beside poor and insufficient food, 
bad air, lack or entire absence of facilities for bathing or 
laundry work, imperfect lighting, and the easy dissemina- 
tion of infectious diseases owing to close contact. 

11 The more crowded a community, the greater, speaking , 
generally, is the amount of abject want, of filth, of crime, 
of drunkenness, and of other excesses, the more keen the 
competition and the more feverish and exhausting the 
conditions of life. Moreover, and perhaps more than all, 
it is in these crowded communities that almost all the 
most dangerous and unhealthy industries are carried on. 
It is not so much the aggregation itself, as it is these other 
factors which are associated with aggregation, that 
produce the high mortality of our great towns, or other 
thickly populated areas." (Ogle.) 

Heredity may be defined as the influence of parents 
upon offspring. The question of the direct transmission 
of diseases from parent to child has long been a subject 
of controversy ; syphilis and some of the acute infections 



CAUSES AND DISSEMINATION OF DISEASE 107 

are doubtless transmitted directly, but in regard to 
tuberculosis authorities differ. 

"In predisposing to disease heredity manifests its 
influence more through the transmission of a peculiar 
habit of body than by the transmission of the disease 
itself. ... In some families we observe a peculiar 
tendency to nervous diseases, as to epilepsy or insanity; 
in others to cancers and tumors; in others to scrofula 
and other tubercular manifestations. Again, families 
are encountered that are endowed with a marked pre- 
disposition to acute diseases and in others there is an 
equally marked resistance to them. In short, the in- 
heritance of a tendency to, or immunity from, disease is 
due fundamentally to the same processes, through which 
peculiarities of a physical, moral, or mental nature are 
transmitted." 1 

The season exerts an influence upon the prevalence 
of certain diseases. 

The summer months show a large proportion of dis- 
eases of the digestive tract, especially in young children, 
probably due to the speedy decomposition of milk, meat, 
and perishable fruits and vegetables. 

During the colder months, catarrhal affections, 
acute infectious diseases, and diseases of the respiratory 
system are more prevalent. It is still a question how 
much of this winter illness is due to the cold and moisture, 
and how much to the effects of lack of ventilation and 
cleanliness, which are common in winter. 

Malaria and typhoid fever are both more prevalent in 
the early autumn than during the rest of the year. 

Dissemination of Disease. In all contagious and 
1 Hygiene of Transmissible Diseases, Abbott. 



108 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

infectious diseases the transfer of the disease germs is 
accomplished either directly from a patient to another 
individual, or indirectly through the air, water, food, 
or insects. 

"Air-borne Germs. To this class belong the eruptive 
diseases, such as measles, scarlet fever, smallpox, ery- 
sipelas, chicken pox, also diphtheria, tuberculosis, and 
mumps. Besides the danger from the discharges and 
secretions being deposited upon bedding, floors, or uten- 
sils, and becoming a direct menace to others, there is the 
double danger of such discharges becoming dried and 
blown with dust to greater or less distances, and the still 
greater danger of the so-called 'droplet' infection. 
It has been demonstrated that in talking, coughing, 
sneezing, and even in rapid breathing numerous germ- 
laden bubbles or droplets of mucus or saliva pass into 
the air, where they may float about for some time. In 
the case of pulmonary tuberculosis the greater danger 
would then be from patients still able to walk about, 
rather than with the bedridden. 

"Air-borne infection is, therefore, most dangerous in 
close, badly ventilated rooms or wards. 

" Water and Soil. Infections borne by water are 
typhoid fever, cholera, and dysentery. The soil also 
may bear the bacilli of tetanus (lockjaw), cholera, and 
typhoid fever. 

" Food. Infections borne by food, such as milk, 
meat, oysters, and fruit, are tuberculosis, typhoid fever, 
cholera, and the summer diarrhoea of children. 

" Insects. Infections borne by insects are malaria, 
yellow fever, typhoid fever, and tuberculosis; mosquitoes, 
house flies, and bedbugs being the common carriers. " 



CAUSES AND DISSEMINATION OF DISEASE 109 

In the case of mosquitoes which carry malaria and 
yellow fever, the person is infected by the bite of the 
insect; while house flies and bedbugs carry the disease 
germs upon their feet and bodies and by their contact 
with water, food, or eating utensils convey it to other 
individuals. 

In Cuba, yellow fever and malaria have been entirely 
stamped out by the destruction of the mosquitoes, which 
was accomplished by drainage, by the use of petroleum 
upon the surface of standing water, and by laws forbid- 
ding any vessels for water being left standing open. It 
was found that the peculiar type of mosquito which 
serves as the carrier of malaria and yellow fever, breeds 
more frequently in open vessels o~ standing water than 
in marshy places. 

Vermin such as rats and mice are considered a grave 
source of danger in carrying cholera and bubonic plague. 

Domestic pets such as cats and dogs no doubt often 
carry in their fur the germs of scarlet fever, smallpox, 
and other eruptive diseases. 

" Inoculation. Infections by inoculation are leprosy, 
syphilis, vaccina, ophthalmia, gonorrhea, tetanus, an- 
thrax, puerperal fever, tuberculosis, hydrophobia, pyaB- 
mia, and septicaemia." 

Disease is said to be epidemic when it prevails in a 
community ; it is endemic when it is peculiar to a people 
or a nation, and pandemic when it is widespread over 
more than one country. Influenza is the best example 
of a pandemic disease. 



CHAPTER VII 

PERSONAL HYGIENE 1 

GOOD health of mind and body depends upon the 
perfect work performed by all the organs of the body. 
In order that these organs may exercise their proper 
functions, the individual must lead a rational, hygienic 
life. 

No hard and fast rules can ever be made which will 
fit every individual, but certain general principles must 
be observed by all; otherwise sooner or later the penalty 
is paid in impaired health. 

It is a lamentable fact that the bulk of humanity have 
little real knowledge of their own bodies, the greater 
proportion of them having a morbid fear of "taking 
cold" and " overwork," while an unhappy number fix 
their attention upon the disorder of some certain organ, 
to the detriment of their peace of mind and vigor of 
body. 

A good example is the very common form of fermenta- 
tive dyspepsia, due largely to overeating and imperfect 
mastication, that is often accompanied with palpitation 
of the heart, which in the mind of the ignorant victim 
at once becomes "heart disease," who stops work and 
exercise for fear of the consequences to the heart. Such 

1 For further instruction to nurses, see Primary Nursing Tech' 
nique, Mclsaac, Chapter I. 

11C 



PERSONAL HYGIENE 111 

a person if better informed would curtail the quantity 
of food, practice better mastication and take more instead 
of less exercise. 

The fear of taking cold leads to overheated, illy ven- 
tilated houses, and it seems hopeless to convince many 
that cold baths and open bedroom windows prevent 
instead of causing colds. 

"Overwork" is a bugbear which is greatly magnified 
in most minds; indolence both mental and physical 
causes as much illness as overwork. When overwork 
does occur, it is usually the result of concentration upon 
one particular kind of occupation, to the exclusion of all 
other interests, and of recreation and rational exercise, 
together with bad or insufficient food. Factory workers 
afford a good example of such conditions. 

If the children can be taught physiology properly, a 
great work in the prevention of disease could easily 
be done; but an adult man or woman usually has fixed 
habits, accompanied by some pet ailment, and both 
combined with crass ignorance of the simplest functions 
of the body, make it a hopeless task to enlighten them. 

Physiology as commonly taught to children is of very 
little practical use; to teach a child of twelve the names 
of all the bones of his body and say little or nothing about 
his excretions stands for nothing. Too much time is 
devoted to the pernicious effects of tobacco and alcohol 
and too little to the evils of constipation, overeating, and 
lack of cleanliness. 

The appalling consequences of ignorance in the relation 
of the sexes, have become such a serious menace to the 
physical and moral health of the human race, that with 
one accord medical authorities, parents, and the clergy 



112 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

are striving to teach the coming generation what they 
should know in order to respect their own bodies. 

It lies within the hands of nurses to wield a great in- 
fluence toward a better knowledge of physiology, both as 
a factor for better health and for better morals. 

Habitation is a great factor in the preservation of 
health. The subject is considered elsewhere (p. 117). 

Cleanliness of body is equally important with clean- 
liness of surroundings ; a clean, wholesome body not only 
stimulates physical vigor, but produces mental activity 
as well. 

It is very seldom an active mind is associated with an 
unclean body, while moral delinquency is almost in- 
variably coupled with personal uncleanliness. 

The mental and moral inertia of the " unwashed" 
is in daily evidence in all walks of life. It is an 
easy matter to teach a child to be clean, but adults 
are hopeless unless the appeal to their vanity has an 
effect. 

Baths play an equally important role in the prevention 
and cure of disease. 

Frequent baths, daily if possible, for cleanliness, 
and the cold shower in the morning, with an abundance 
of clean clothing, are a necessity as well as a luxury. 

Houses without running water may easily have plenty 
of cistern water, and with a portable tin tub frequent 
baths may be taken with very little trouble. 

Children who become accustomed to the warm bath 
for cleanliness, followed 'by a cold shower, seldom depart 
from their good habit in later years, but many adults 
are unable to begin the cold shower baths. 

Hot baths relieve the muscular soreness following 



PERSONAL HYGIENE 113 

great exertion or fatigue, while a cold shower bath 
refreshes greatly. 

For nervous irritability in children or adults, a warm 
bath continued for 20 or 30 minutes has a quieting effect. 

Exercise. It is essential for the maintenance of 
health that the body shall be exercised in all its parts. 

Rational physical exercise develops not only the 
muscles, but affects all the organs of the body ; the heart, 
lungs, skin, kidneys, brain, and digestive apparatus are 
all stimulated. Excessive exercise may injure the heart, 
but deficient exercise produces obesity and tends to 
weaken the heart and "is a common cause of morbid 
excitability manifested by irritability of temper, sen- 
sitiveness, and that form of nervous unrest known as 
fidgets." (Harrington.) 

The amount and kind of exercise necessary depend 
upon the occupation and surroundings of the individual. 
The farmer or gardener will scarcely need further ex- 
ercise than his work, while the man tied to an office 
desk or any sedentary occupation needs systematic 
out-of-door exercise. Golf, gardening, sailing, tennis, 
wheeling, and horseback riding are usually advised for 
those confined by business indoors; the pleasure derived 
from these forms of exercise no doubt is as great a factor 
in improved health as the exercise itself. 

Rest and recreation are indispensable for every human 
being. Monotony combined with overwork is doubtless 
the cause of much mental and nervous disturbance, 
statistics showing that a high percentage of insanity 
is among farmers' wives. The isolation and monotony, 
together with the laborious work and childbearing, 
combine to bring mental disaster which might easily 



114 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

be avoided if as much thought was given to the wel- 
fare of the mother as is given to the cattle on the 
farm. 

Worry is far more often a cause of mental and physical 
disorders than mental activity, and as worry is often the 
outcome of monotony, recreation may be said to be its 
preventive. 

The importance of rest and recreation to nurses can 
scarcely be emphasized sufficiently. During the term 
of training, the association with many other nurses, the 
study and interest in new work, and the regularity of 
the routine tend to improve the general health, but 
graduate nurses engaged in either private or hospital 
nursing, very frequently fall into a monotonous round of 
living devoid of recreation, which speedily manifests 
itself in nervous unrest, depression, and in some cases 
true melancholia. 

The necessity which compels nurses to live weeks and 
months in an atmosphere of illness is naturally depressing, 
making it an imperative necessity for them to take 
rest and recreation at frequent intervals, and that their 
home surroundings when off duty should be particularly 
bright, comfortable, and cheerful. Hard work, mental 
or physical, is seldom injurious to health when done under 
favorable conditions; but grinding monotony, with no 
outside interests, will soon affect the spirit of the indi- 
vidual, which in time injures the general health. 

Sleep. Every human being seems to be a law unto 
himself regarding the amount of sleep required, al- 
though it has long been conceded that eight hours out 
of the twenty-four is needed by the average adult between 
20 and 50. Children and the aged require more, and 



PERSONAL HYGIENE 115 

men can endure loss of sleep better than women, some 
authorities stating that if a man requires 8 hours a 
woman requires 9. That many women suffer loss of 
health from lack of sleep and regularity, is evidenced 
by their speedy recovery when compelled to take the 
"rest cure." Late, irregular hours and lack of sleep are 
especially harmful to children, although slothful habits 
of sleeping twelve hours or more, with the consequent 
loss of a regular breakfast, are nearly as bad. 

Mental Attitude. The mental attitude of the in- 
dividual is a factor in good health; a busy, cheerful 
mind lends great aid to digestion, while a morose, de- 
spondent temperament has a reverse effect. 

The so-called "mind cure" is a subject which is widely 
ridiculed, but it has in its claims some elements of truth 
which cannot be disputed. 

In youth and in fair health the mental attitude is 
largely under control of the will, and just as the muscles 
of the body require exercise to attain a high state of 
development, so the mind and spirit require exercise 
arid control. A child who is taught self-control seldom 
loses the habit in adult years. 

Doubtless the habits of worry and fear undermine the 
vigor of a very large number of persons who otherwise 
might be strong and well. 

The digestion is easily disturbed by the state of mind; 
worry, fright, and anger arrest digestion, while cheerful- 
ness promotes it. 

Diet. Moderation in quantity and quality of food 
is one great factor in preserving health. It is not pos- 
sible to establish dietaries which are suitable and satis- 
factory to all persons. 



116 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Extreme "fads" either in quantity, quality, or variety 
are almost invariably harmful. 

Good teeth and thoroughly masticated food are im* 
portant factors, while good cooking, service, variety, and 
moderate amounts make up the general rules which 
should govern one's daily food. 

Clothing. In the selection of proper clothing the 
comfort of the individual should have more consideration. 
Women err in this respect more than men, and the dis- 
comfort of heavy, constricted garments is productive 
of much nervous irritability which is wholly unnecessary. 
This is especially true in the case of nurses, teachers, and 
others whose occupation is for a number of consecutive 
hours, which admit of no relief from their uncomfortable 
clothing. Well-to-do mechanics often afford an excel- 
lent example of the suitability and comfort of clothing 
which is entirely wanting in the case of their wives. 

The danger of the transmission of disease germs in 
clothing and all fabrics, such as bedding, carpets, rugs, 
and curtains, is well known and should be guarded against. 

Excretions. The daily evacuations from the bowels 
and activity of the kidneys and skin have a great influence 
upon health. 

Bathing stimulates the action of the skin as well as 
removing the sweat and debris. 

The movements of the bowels are regulated largely 
by the nature of the food taken and the occupation, 
but at least one movement daily is an absolute necessity 
or the accumulation of fecal matter is reabsorbed and 
productive of disease. 

Few persons drink enough water to flush the kidneys 
and dilute the waste secreted. At least 3 pints of 
water daily for an adult is necessary. 



CHAPTER VIII 

HOUSEHOLD HYGIENE 

IN considering household hygiene the subjects of 
food, water, ventilation, plumbing, sewage and garbage, 
heating and lighting have already been spoken of in 
special chapters, as well as personal hygiene. 

The practice of hygiene in the household may be said 
to be good housekeeping, or the observance of such 
hygienic methods as shall bring all of the foregoing 
factors into their proper relation to the health of the 
family. 

The House. The city dweller has little choice in the 
selection of the site of his habitation, but the country or 
small town resident has a much wider range, which he 
often completely ignores. 

A house should stand upon well-drained soil, for noth- 
ing damp in walls or cellar should be allowed to encourage 
rheumatism, kidney disorders, tuberculosis, or depressed 
spirits. 

Position. If possible a house should stand with its 
four corners (not sides) to the points of the compass, 
preferably to face southeast or southwest; in this way 
the sun may enter the windows of every room. 

Sunlight. In crowded cities where a large proportion 
of the people must live in small quarters, the absence of 
sunlight is unavoidable, while in smaller cities, towns, 
and the country it is inexcusable; but any observant 

117 



118 HYGIENE FCR NURSES 

person taking a railway journey across the continent, 
cannot help being appalled at seeing the innumerable 
number of houses with windows tightly closed, shades 
drawn down to keep the carpets from fading, and as a 
crowning offense to health, outside shutters at the 
windows, excluding every ray of light. 

It is not too much to say that country people suffer as 
much from lack of light and ventilation as the dwellers 
in cities; one might say more, because the majority of 
city people are being constantly reminded of the danger 
of close contact and bad air, while in the country the 
fact that pure air is abundant seems to be thought 
sufficient, and little effort is made to obtain a supply 
for indoor use. The dullest woman knows that plants 
do not thrive without the sun and air, and why so many 
of them deny their children the same privileges seems 
hard to understand. 

Bedrooms are better for being on the east or south side 
of the house, where the sun in the earlier part of the day 
may shine upon open beds. 

Closets for clothing, which are without windows, should 
preferably have the doorways screened by washable 
curtains rather than the solid doors; the curtains may 
not keep out as much dust but they admit the air, which 
is more essential. 

Bath rooms and water-closets must have windows or 
extra large ventilating shafts to be at all sanitary. 

Kitchens should be bright and comfortable, as some 
person or persons must spend most of the day in the 
kitchen of every household, and a dark, badly ventilated, 
inconvenient kitchen is depressing to both the cook and 
the cooking. 



HOUSEHOLD HYGIENE 119 

Porches should not be too wide nor numerous to shut 
off air and light. 

Stairs should be broad and easy to mount. There should 
be no different levels in the rooms; one or two extra 
steps between rooms, mounted many times daily, soon 
become very fatiguing. 

Ceilings had better be high than low, for while more 
difficult to heat in winter the rooms are cooler in summer, 
and the supply of air at all seasons is more nearly ade- 
quate. The amount of room in a house must necessarily 
be governed by the family income rather than by the 
number in the family. 

The practice of utilizing porches for sleeping or dining 
rooms is an excellent one and cannot fail to produce 
good results; tents also are a practical inexpensive 
means of enlarging household space for seven or eight 
months of the year, or even longer in the milder climates. 
Porches on the south or east side of the house may be 
shut in with canvas for the winter months and wire 
fly netting the rest of the year, and used for sleeping 
practically the whole year. 

Furniture. Too much stress cannot be laid upon sim- 
plicity in furnishing. Elaborate decoration, upholstered 
furniture, heavy portieres, and quantities of bric-a-brac 
require extraordinary care to keep clean, the kind of care 
which is beyond the means of the majority of households, 
and it is in the household of moderate means where there 
are neither time nor servants to clean them that such 
elaborate furnishings are a constant menace to the family 
health. 

Woodwork. The finishing woodwork of a house is 
frequently full of fancv scrolls, panels, and beveled sur- 



120 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

faces, which are almost impossible to keep free from 
dust; whereas perfectly plain surfaces and edges would 
not only be more sanitary, but much more pleasing to 
the eye of any person whose tastes were not of the junk- 
shop order. 

Wall paper. Dull, dark wall papers and rugs "which 
do not show the dirt" are depressing; Nature is con- 
stantly teaching the need and beauty of bright colors. 
When wall paper is renewed the old paper should always 
be removed. 

Floors should either be of hard wood with polished 
surfaces, or painted that they may be easily cleaned. 
Rugs and carpets should not entirely cover the floors 
nor should they be nailed down, but left that they may 
be frequently taken up and out-of-doors for cleaning and 
airing. Sweeping with a broom is strongly condemned, 
but it seems a question as to which is more dangerous 
to health, sweeping with a broom occasionally with all 
windows and doors wide open, or using a carpet sweeper 
or other hair brush which leaves much dust in the fabric 
and which is raised in clouds whenever walked over. 
In many households it is impossible to have rugs and 
carpets beaten and aired more than four or five times a 
year; consequently where there are children rugs and 
carpets soon become very dusty. 

Clothing. The care of body and bed clothing is 
one of the most important as well as difficult problems 
of domestic hygiene; the expense of laundry work or 
the hard labor required to do it are certainly good excuses 
for economizing, but such economy is doubtless a far 
more frequent cause of disease than is realized. In 
the state of Wisconsin a law was recently enacted which 



HOUSEHOLD HYGIENE 121 

requires that all hotels, boarding houses, and sleeping 
cars shall supply sheets long enough to fold under and 
over all sides of the bed at least eighteen inches; this 
law has been the object of great ridicule from the ig- 
norant, who would have no objection to coming in con- 
tact with bed covers and mattresses suffering from long- 
continued use by others; but to any intelligent person 
such a law is a long step in a sanitary direction, the only 
regret being that it could not be enforced in every house- 
hold, school, and hospital in the land, for clean beds are 
quite as essential for health as clean food. 

The custom of collecting soiled clothing in bags or 
hampers in bedrooms should be abolished; receptacles 
for soiled clothing may be kept in the bath room pro- 
vided it has a window or the family is not too large, but 
a back gallery, porch, or hall had much better be used 
than the bedrooms. 

Every person in a household should be provided with 
individual towels and wash cloths quite as much as 
toothbrushes. 

Body linen should be changed at least twice a week, 
oftener in warm weather. 

Children's towels, wash cloths, and handkerchiefs 
must be abundant. 

The testimony of many school teachers is, that most 
children are poorly supplied with clean handkerchiefs, 
which no doubt contributes largely to the epidemics of 
influenza and colds. 

In public hospitals an incredible number of boys and 
men patients are brought in, who are not in the habit of 
wearing underclrawers, causing a most repulsive and 
unsanitary condition. 



122 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Dish-Towels. The use of unclean dishcloths and 
towels should be strongly condemned; dishcloths foul 
with grease and dirty water are often put away without 
any cleansing and used over and over, while a household 
where such a condition prevails is nearly always pervaded 
with house flies which are attracted by filth, and are a 
constant source of danger to a whole neighborhood. 

Ice boxes, cupboards, and cellars where food is stored 
should be kept scrupulously clean. House cellars should 
not be used for storing large quantities of fruit and vege- 
tables in winter. In hot weather all food decomposes 
rapidly and constant vigilance is needed to avoid the 
extr-avagance of destroying large amounts, or using food 
which is in the process of decay. 

Disinfectants. Too many housekeepers gain a super- 
ficial and dangerous smattering of knowledge about 
disinfectants, and lose sight of the fundamental prin- 
ciple of plain everyday soap-and- water and sunlight 
disinfection ; the writer once saw in the house of a wealthy, 
educated woman a two-ounce bottle of carbolic acid 
without a cork, suspended by a string on a nail directly 
over a slop hopper, and was told it was to disinfect the 
hopper; what the slop hopper really needed was hot 
s mpsuds and a brush vigorously applied. 

The general rule for the use of disinfectants in the 
household should be the same as in the hospital or 
laboratory; viz. that the quantity used should be equal 
to or exceed the matter to be disinfected; thus the foul 
slop hopper would need at least two gallons of boiling 
hot soapsuds, to which might be added a handful of 
washing soda, a vigorous scouring with a long-handled 
sanitary brush, and then if followed by one or two 



HOUSEHOLD HYGIENE 123 

gallons, not ounces, of 5 per cent carbolic acid we might 
reasonably say it had been disinfected. 

Protection from Insects and Vermin. Since diseases 
such as malaria, typhoid fever, cholera, and tuberculosis 
are known to be carried by insects and vermin, a house 
should be provided with wire-netting screens at every 
window and door, from early spring until after the first 
heavy autumn frosts, usually late in October. It is 
essential to retain the screens late, as house flies seem 
to take a new lease of life when warm days recur, and 
while in that condition frequently drop dead in milk, 
water, or food which is not protected. 

Screened doors should be provided with springs, that 
they may never be left standing open. 

Two kinds of so-called fly paper for the destruction 
of flies is in common use, one which is poisonous and 
another covered with a thick mucilaginous substance, 
which entraps the fly. 

Poison fly paper is particularly dangerous when there 
are young children in a household, and also the poisoned 
insect often finds its way into dishes or food. Cleanli- 
ness and screens are the best preventives of house flies. 

Sloth and filth are usually accompanied by bedbugs. 
If these are permitted to multiply and a house becomes 
infested, it is a labor of weeks and months to get rid of 
them. Fumigation with sulphur, repeated at intervals 
of a day or two for a fortnight, is efficacious if followed 
by thorough house cleaning in every crack and crevice 
of the rooms and kept up for weeks. 

Rats and mice often overrun houses and other build- 
ings, and at times are very difficult to get rid of. 

Traps will usually dispose of mice, but rats are very 



124 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

wary of traps, and poison is dangerous to have about 
besides the danger of the animals dying in wall spaces 
or under floors. 

Cats seem to be the only solution where rats become 
very numerous, not one cat but several put into base- 
ment, cellar, garret, and outhouses. Some persons re- 
gard the cats as great an affliction as the rats, but once 
the rats are exterminated, one good cat will usually 
protect a house, while rats are destructive and dangerous, 
as they run in and out of sewers, drains, privies, barn- 
yards, into every imaginable kind of filth, which may 
be carried on their feet to all parts of a dwelling. 

Cellar and basement windows and doors should be 
kept screened throughout the entire year as a protec- 
tion from rats and mice. 

The details of hygienic housekeeping are too extended 
to be cited in a book of this kind, but the statement made 
by Harrington that " housekeeping is too often spread 
with an uneven hand" cannot be denied. 

The slavery to housekeeping which is the lot of so 
many women, arises largely from their ignorance of the 
simplest rules of hygiene and the love of display; this 
is especially the case with women who necessarily must 
do all or a greater part of their own housework, and it is 
small wonder that so many of them suffer in health of 
body and mind from the struggle. 



CHAPTER IX 

SCHOOL HYGIENE 

SECTION I 

THE majority of school children spend from ten to 
twenty-five hours weekly in the schoolroom, for a period 
of several months each year, for eight or ten years of 
their lives; such being the case, the need of hygienic 
school buildings and for good personal hygiene must be 
admitted. 

School hygiene "concerns the parent, the physician, 
and the citizen, and its investigations must consider 
the personal hygiene of the scholar, the conditions of 
his health, his habits, the amount of work done, the sani- 
tary environment and requirements of the schoolroom and 
building, the furniture, the ventilation and heating, and 
the influence of all these upon the individual's state 
and development." 1 

Site. It is of no less importance for the school to 
be built upon well-drained soil than for the habitation; 
this is necessary not only to insure the walls and base- 
ments against dampness and to secure good drainage 
for sewage, but to provide playgrounds which do not 
permit standing water. 

Structure. All school buildings should be detached 
to secure the maximum amount of light and air. Double 
walls with an air space prevent dampness and secure 

1 Hygiene and Sanitation, Egbert. 
125 



126 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

warmth for any building; stone walls are usually damp, 
while double brick walls with the air space are perfectly 
dry. 

The height of the first story of the building, as well as 
the "window space, should be greater than for the upper 
stories, to secure the proper amount of light and ventila- 
tion. 

The windows should be higher from the floor than in 
a dwelling, and should extend to the ceiling, with proper 
shades for excluding the direct rays of the sun when 
necessary. 

Lighting. The proper lighting of schools is of great 
importance to every child. 

The light should be sufficient and come from the child's 
left side and back; he should never sit facing the light. 

Light falling from the right side throws a shadow of 
the hand when writing or drawing, while light from the 
front is a constant source of irritation to the eye, and 
causes squinting and headaches. 

Insufficient light is said to be a frequent cause of 
myopia (near-sightedness) in children. 

Cohen maintains that "a schoolroom cannot have 
too much light" and recommends that for every square 
foot of floor space there should be a square foot of win- 
dow glass. 

The best authorities recommend that schoolrooms 
should be oblong, with windows placed in one of the long 
sides, and seats running parallel to the short side, the 
light falling from the left side of the pupil. 

Blackboards. The blackboards should never be 
placed on the same side of the schoolroom as the windows, 
as the light in the eyes, causes an unnecessary strain; 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 127 

neither should the blackboards have glazed, shiny sur- 
faces for the same reason. 

The distance of the blackboard from the farthest 
seats should cause an inquiry regarding the sight of 
pupils who occupy them. Copying from the blackboard 
requires rapid changes in accommodation (adjustment of 
the eye to different distances), which is regarded as an 
important factor in producing defective sight. 

Corridors and Cloakrooms. Corridors should be 
wide and straight both as an assistance in time of fire 
or other panic and to aid ventilation. 

Stairways should be broad and easy to mount, pref- 
erably with a landing midway and ending near the 
door of exit, stairways being placed at both ends of a 
building. 

Wardrobes in the more modern schools are made with 
individual lockers to avoid contact of clothing. When 
the corridors are wide enough such wardrobes are placed 
in them, but in narrow halls this could not be permitted. 
The especial objection to the wraps being placed in the 
basement, as is commonly done, is because of the lack of 
air and light. 

In small country schools where the entrance hall is 
commonly used for wraps, the nearness to the outside 
door, and abundance of light and good air makes a better 
arrangement scarcely necessary. 

Heating and Ventilation. In large schools like 
other large buildings the heating and ventilation must 
necessarily be considered together, the best method 
probably being the indirect method, whereby the air for 
ventilation is heated to the required temperature and 
propelled by fans into the rooms. By this method the 



128 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

air may be filtered and the temperature automatically 
controlled by a thermostat. 

The heating of country schools by stoves in cold climates 
is as. unsatisfactory a method as can possibly be imagined. 
The floors are always cold and country children suffer 
cruelly from chilblains and colds ; while the upper part of 
the room is too warm, the outer rows of seats are in an 
icy atmosphere, and the whole room suffers from bad air. 

Sewage, Water-closets, Wash-rooms. The plumbing 
of a school building like that of a house should be of the 
best character, with no hidden pipes and joints, well 
trapped and an abundant water supply for flushing. 

Water-closets and wash-rooms should have air and 
light in abundance and be built with tile or concrete 
floors and walls. In the primary rooms the seats of 
water-closets should be low to suit the child, likewise the 
washbowls, the latter being supplied with soap and an 
abundance of small towels. The cost to the commu- 
nity of supplying clean towels for the wash-rooms is a 
trifle in comparison to the expense of epidemics. 

The filth and foul air of the toilet rooms of many schools 
in decent communities is unspeakable, and aside from 
the danger of contagion from washbowls, dirty towels, 
and closet seats, the moral effect is quite as bad. 

If every mother would see these rooms where her 
children attend school, there would certainly be a sweep- 
ing reformation. The oversight of such factors belongs 
particularly to women, and when they are denied a voice 
in school management, they have it in their power to 
give publicity to such shameful conditions, and may be 
pardoned for making themselves extremely disagreeable 
to the school managers. 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 129 

Seats and Desks. Improperly constructed seats and 
desks by compelling a child to assume a cramped or 
strained position produce curvature of the spine. 

Schoolrooms should not be provided with fixed seats 
and desks of uniform size according to the grade. In 
this respect the country schoolroom has the advantage 
over many town and city schools, as the seats are usually 
of three or four sizes and children are placed according to 
their size and not their grade. 

Lincoln makes the following suggestions regarding 
seats and desks : 

11 1. The chair is often too high for young scholars. 
The most convenient plan may be to provide footstools. 
2. The seat from back to front ought to be long enough 
to support the whole thigh. A more or less spoon-shaped 
hollow in the seat is commonly thought desirable. The 
curve of many settees is such as to produce pain at the 
point where the tuberosities of the ischium rest on the 
wood; the support is there not wide enough. 3. Seats 
must have backs. The straight, upright back reaching 
to the shoulders is bad; a straight back, slightly tilted, 
is not bad. American seats are commonly curved, with 
curved backs. 4. The edge of the desk should come up 
to or overlap the edge of the seat. The recognition of 
this fact is a recent discovery. 5. Most of our best 
desks are too high relatively to the seat, doubtless to 
prevent the pupil from stooping. Something is gained 
in convenience of reading by this plan, but it interferes 
with correct positions in writing. The elbows, hanging 
freely, should be only just below the level of the lid. 
For near-sighted children the higher desk may be a 
necessity in writing; if the desk is made low, a port- 



130 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

able writing stand may be placed on top of it when 
necessary." 

Drinking-water. The dangers from drinking-water 
are twofold : from an impure water, and from drinking- 
cups. Except in the case of very small children all 
school children should early be taught the dangers of 
a common drinking-cup. The custom of providing each 
child with his own cup is right theoretically, but inquiry 
reveals the fact that many cups go unwashed for the 
whole school year and may easily carry typhoid fever, 
tuberculosis, and diphtheria germs. 

Common Defects. Lack of cleanliness is the most 
glaring and universal defect of schools, the country 
school being quite as bad as the school in the city. 

Dust covers floors, walls, and furnishings, while water- 
closets and basins are unclean, and the atmosphere is 
tainted with the emanations from unwashed bodies, soiled 
clothing, defective plumbing, and coal gas. 

The schoolroom floors in most buildings are scrubbed 
once a year, and were it not for the vacation interim, 
it is doubtful if many would survive in buildings where 
overcrowding and deficient light and air are present. 

In the older public school buildings of several large 
cities, many have only two or three rooms which have 
sunlight, while toilet rooms and cloak rooms are in the 
basements without a ray of daylight, and the entire 
buildings tainted with the foul air arising from them. 

If it were possible to build schools with the same sani- 
tary precautions that enter into modern hospitals, much 
disease might be prevented. 

Concrete floors, and stairs with rounded angles, per- 
fectly plain woodwork and furniture, sunlight in every 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 131 

room, and good plumbing would make a vast difference 
in the health record of schools. With concrete floors 
provided with drains the floors might be washed or 
flooded daily and do away with the suffocating dust 
arising from unwashed wood floors, and chalk, which 
cannot fail to be a carrier of infectious materials. 

In country schools lack of cleanliness is less harmful 
on account of the abundance of pure air and sunshine, 
but the cold floors, improper lighting, and absence of all 
toilet conveniences make them extremely uncomfortable 
and often unsanitary. 

Luncheons. The subject of luncheons for school 
children is an important one to the city and country 
pupil; in small cities and towns the majority of children 
go home for their noon meal, which is a great advantage. 

The 'luncheons of country children from comfortable 
homes are better, from a hygienic standpoint, than the 
almost universal custom of large cities, where children 
buy what suits their fancy from any convenient bakery 
or lunch room. 

For fifteen years the writer daily passed a lunch room 
near a large public school in a well-to-do neighborhood, 
and feels safe in saying that fully two thirds of these 
children, between twelve and eighteen years of age, made 
their noon meal upon a cup of coffee and a piece of pie 
or cake, with ice cream as a luxury. 

The unappetizing medley of food jumbled into a 
lunch box which commonly passes for the school lunch, 
is so altogether unpleasant that the child cannot be 
blamed for particularly objecting to them; but there is 
no necessity for a lunch box being monotonous or 
unappetizing. 



132 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

An infinite variety of sandwiches made of bread and 
meat, or eggs, or cheese, or jam are easily prepared, and 
when neatly put together and each sandwich rolled in 
the .paraffin paper which may be bought in any grocery 
store, they are not unsightly nor flavored with the other 
articles of food ; simple cakes or cookies, fruit, and a few 
pieces of pure candy make a good variety, and an occa- 
sional turnover or individual pie is always the treat. 

A common mistake is in providing too much. The 
prevailing habit of overeating doubtless originates in 
the almost universal practice of giving small children 
something to eat to keep them quiet. Children, like 
adults, who eat too much are heavy and inert, with little 
relish for study. 

The diseases and disorders common to school children 
arise very largely from contact, especially the infectious 
diseases, scarlet fever, diphtheria, measles, chicken 
pox, and mumps, the common cloak room being the 
important place of contact, as coats and wraps hang 
together for several hours. 

Defective sight may be caused by improper lighting 
or badly constructed seats and desks. Copying from 
the blackboard should not be a routine practice, as before 
mentioned; the rapidity of changes in accommodation 
produces eye strain and its consequent headaches. 

Disordered digestion is very common with school 
children, caused by nervousness when the child strives 
to make grades or is worried over examinations, or from 
lack of exercise, or improper food. 

An investigation among the tenement children of one 
large city revealed the fact that many puny children 
came to school without any breakfast, and some with no 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 133 

lunch, their only meal being at night when the father 
and mother returned from work; these children nearly 
all suffered from indigestion. 

Headaches arise from indigestion and bad air as well 
as lack of exercise and eye strain. 

Curvature of the spine is said to be caused by wrong 
positions in seats or at desks, but with healthy, vigorous 
children it seldom occurs, the impaired vitality of under- 
fed and overworked children being a greater factor than 
improper seats and desks. 

Underfeeding is not confined to the tenement children. 
The child subsisting upon coffee and bakery pie stands 
quite as good a chance of contracting curvature of the 
spine as the child with no breakfast. 

The nervous strain of overwork in school is more 
noticeable in girls than boys. Girls after the age of 
twelve need special supervision over their diet, exercise, 
clothing, hours of sleep, and recreation. Girls usually 
are required to spend more time out of school upon 
music or other accomplishments, and they suffer from 
the restriction of their recreations. Again, with the 
poorer classes, many young girls are required to do sev- 
eral hours of laborious housework morning and evening, 
while boys who are required to work usually find employ- 
ment out-of-doors, which is far more wholesome. 

Children suffering with chorea and epilepsy should 
not attend school with other children; the excitement 
and school routine and conditions aggravate both mal- 
adies and the effect of their evident disorders upon 
other nervous children is serious. 

Growths or obstructions in the nose or throat are 
very common. 



134 HYGIENE FOE NURSES 

R H. Johnston " regards the real nature of mental 
and nervous troubles in these cases as toxic from a defi- 
ciency of oxygen in the inspired air. The list of symp- 
toms produced includes mental dullness, restlessness, 
night terrors, nocturnal incontinence, headaches, stut- 
tering, and various other defects of speech, choreic 
movements of face, etc. Mention is made of reflex 
nervous cough, irritability of disposition, etc." 1 

The tendency of parents to put the onus of impaired 
health upon the strain of overwork in school is often 
unjust; a child who is well fed, clothed, and sheltered 
in clean surroundings with sufficient sleep and exercise 
very seldom suffers from too much study. 

SECTION II 

Medical Inspection of Schools. The objects of the 
medical inspection of schools are the prompt exclusion 
of all children who are suffering from contagious diseases, 
the detection of physical defects which hinder the child's 
development, such as defective hearing or sight, or to 
note delayed development from other causes such as lack 
of food or clothing, or unhygienic home surroundings. 

It is said that in Europe the medical inspection of 
schools has been carried much farther than in this coun- 
try and begins with the inspection of all plans for new 
school buildings, which must conform to a certain sani- 
tary standard. 

The Medical Inspectors examine the air of classrooms 
and the drinking-water; they superintend the seating 
of the children, besides the regular medical inspection of 
all pupils. 

1 Medical Record. 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 135 

In a few of our large cities, school nurses have been 
appointed as assistants to the Medical Inspectors, who 
are able to attend to minor surgical dressings, treat- 
ment of eyes, ears, and throats, and to look after the per- 
sonal hygiene of the children in many ways which only 
women and nurses can do. 

The medical inspection of schools is one of the most 
important factors in the prevention of disease in all large 
cities. 

The following extract from the report of the Depart- 
ment of Health of Chicago for the six months ending 
July 6, 1907, tells very forcibly of the need of such in- 
spection. 

Report of the Chief Medical Inspector. During the 
first six months of the year there were reported to the 
Department of Health 6991 cases of scarlet fever, 3011 
cases of diphtheria, 2812 cases of measles, 137 of whoop- 
ing cough, 118 of typhoid fever, 106 of tuberculosis, and 
338 cases of all other contagious diseases a total of 
13,513 cases brought to the notice of the Department. 

The beginning of the year showed scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, and measles epidemic and on the increase. The 
threatening indications of such a condition were pointed 
out in the Department Bulletin as early as the first of 
October, 1906. The necessity for medical school in- 
spection was urged in almost every issue of the Bulle- 
tin after that date, but those who could furnish the means 
and whose duty it was to provide the inspectors for stay- 
ing epidemics paid no heed to the warning. "Show 
us the epidemic before we will spend precious money," 
seemed to be the spirit. 

The epidemic was obvious enough to be seen outside 



136 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

of the Bulletin by January 1, and by January 20 School 
Medical Inspectors had been provided and the work of 
stopping the epidemic of disease, which w r as now under 
full headway, was begun. The inspectors went at the 
task with confidence and ability, and within two months 
scarlet fever and diphtheria were completely under 
control. 

In January, 3058 cases of scarlet fever were reported 
to the Department; in June but 315 were reported. In 
January, 923 cases of diphtheria were reported; in June 
the number dropped to 259. 

From January 20 to June 1 the School Medical In- 
spectors examined 123,460 pupils and excluded from 
school on account of contagious diseases 18,826 pupils, 
or nearly 15 (14.6) out of every hundred examined. (See 
appended table: Medical Inspection of Schools.) It is 
safe to say that many of the public schools would have 
been closed if the Medical Inspectors had not been pro- 
vided. With the School Inspectors working, it did not 
become necessary to close any school, except for a single 
day in a few instances, to perform disinfection. 

One of the benefits to be derived from school medical 
inspection is to do away permanently with the necessity 
r or closing schools on account of the presence of contagious 
liseases. The saving of money, preventing needless suffer- 
ing, and saving life are some other benefits of this service. 

The work of the Inspectors demonstrated that even in 
the face of an epidemic of scarlet fever and diphtheria 
under full headway, the spread of the disease can be 
checked if Medical Inspectors are provided. If the 
recommendations of the Health Department in regard to 
the number of Inspectors needed are followed, a repe- 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 137 

tition of last winter's epidemic with its attendant suffer- 
ing, loss of life, and ineffectual expenditure of money 
can be avoided. 

At the beginning of the year, with smallpox in various 
places in the country contiguous to Chicago we were 
menaced with that disease. Smallpox has been re- 
peatedly imported into the city but has not gained a 
foothold. Neither can this disease make much headway 
in Chicago so long as the present enforcement of vacci- 
nation is kept up, though there are enough unvaccinated 
persons in the city to make it necessary to maintain a 
hospital, at considerable expense to the taxpayers. This 
expense is just so much tribute paid to the ignorant and 
stubborn who object to vaccination. 

Sixty-nine cases of smallpox were sent to the Isolation 
Hospital from January 1 to July 1 . Of this number sixty- 
one never had been vaccinated; eight had old, imperfect, 
and doubtful scars made in childhood. Not one of these 
eight had been revaccinated or recently vaccinated. The 
scars were from twenty to forty years old, and appeared 
to be scars from too deep scarification and aggravated by 
infection, without effective vaccination. Had these per- 
sons been vaccinated and revaccinated, not one of them 
would have contracted smallpox, and the city would have 
been spared the expense of feeding and caring for them. 

It is gratifying to know that the intelligence of Chicago 
is actively aiding the Department in educating the people 
in the matter of vaccination. The large mercantile 
houses, manufacturers, railroads, the clergy, the School 
Board and school principals, the newspapers and medical 
profession are potent factors in safeguarding Chicago 
against an epidemic of smallpox. 



138 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



Vaccination must be kept up without abatement 
if we are to keep free from smallpox. Neglect vaccina- 
tion, even for one year, and the hospital will be filled 
with smallpox if it is once introduced into the city. 

At the end of the first six months of the year the con- 
dition as to contagious disease is gratifying, and there 
is good reason to think we will be able to keep epidemic 
diseases down to the low mark shown in the present daily 
reports. 

School medical inspection will be resumed with the 
opening of the schools in September. 

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS (CHICAGO) 

MONTHLY SUMMARY OF EXAMINATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS FOR 
THE FIRST Six MONTHS OF 1907 



CAUSES OP 
EXCLUSIONS 


'Jan. 


Feb. 


March 


April 


May 


June 


Totals 


Chicken pox 
Diphtheria 
Impetigo contagiosa 
Measles 
Mumps 
Pediculosis 
Purulent sore eyes 
Scabies 
Scarlet fever 
Tonsilitis 


39 
124 
18 
94 
110 
22 
10 
21 
254 
357 


158 
117 
89 
387 
634 
217 
48 
104 
348 
1,449 


122 
63 
144 

528 
554 
389 
77 
88 
316 
1,094 


111 
37 
98 
586 
302 
176 
59 
123 
152 
484 
1 


69 
24 
47 
772 
147 
97 
16 
42 
91 
150 


117 
23 
25 
717 
123 
70 
7 
35 
28 
98 


616 
388 
421 
3,084 
1,870 
971 
217 
413 
1,189 
3,632 
1 


Whooping cough 
Other affections 2 


57 
188 


159 
1,626 


104 
2,015 


109 
1,213 


65 
263 


36 
189 


530 
5,494 


Total Exclusions 


1,294 


5,336 


5,494 


3,451 


1,783 


1,468 


18,826 


Total Examinations 


8,458 


36,621 


34,326 


20,261 


15,717 


13,077 


128,460 


Cultures Made for 
Bacterial Exami- 
nation 


129 


336 


210 


128 


54 


30 


887 


Vaccinations Per- 
formed 






10 


22 


161 


211 


404 



















1 Inspection began January 21, 1907. 

2 Chiefly ringworm and " suspicious cough." 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 139 

Following are the rules for Medical Inspectors and 
School Medical Inspectors, issued by the Department of 
Health of Chicago : 

Medical Inspectors should familiarize themselves 
with the City Health Ordinances. (Copies can be had 
by applying to the Secretary.) 

Beginning at 9 o'clock Medical Inspectors will call 
daily at the schools assigned them, and request principals 
to have all pupils in readiness for examination who have 
been absent from school for four consecutive days. The 
principal will also refer to the Inspector any pupils in 
school who are suspected to be suffering from infectious 
or contagious diseases. 

The examinations will be made at the school. 

The principal of school should have all children to 
be examined sent to a room by themselves, where the 
other pupils will not come in contact with them and 
where the School Inspector can examine them. 

Inspection is to be made in reference to communicable 
diseases and the vaccinal status of pupils only. 

Examinations are to be made for the following diseases : 
scarlet fever, diphtheria, measles, rotheln, smallpox, 
chicken pox, tonsilitis, pediculosis, ringworm, impetigo 
contagiosa, or other transmissible diseases of the skin, 
scalp, and eye. Tuberculosis, when thought to be far 
enough advanced to be a menace to the public health, 
must be reported to the Chief Medical Inspector before 
excluding the pupil from school. 

Scarlet fever cases must not be allowed to return to 
school until all desquamation is completed, and there is 
an entire absence of discharge from ears, nose, throat, 
or suppurating glands and the child and premises are 



140 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

disinfected. This requires at least six weeks severe 
cases eight weeks or longer. 

Diphtheria cases must be excluded until two throat 
cultures made upon two consecutive days show ab- 
sence of the Klebs-Loeffler bacilli. Those exposed to 
diphtheria should be excluded one week from last 
exposure. 

Measles cases are very infectious in the early stages, 
and must be excluded at least three weeks and longer 
if there is present bronchitis, inflammation of the 
throat, nose, or abscess of the ear. Those exposed to 
measles should be excluded two weeks from date of last 
exposure. 

Whooping cough cases should be excluded until 
after the spasmodic stage of cough usually about 
eight weeks. Whooping cough is very infectious in the 
early stages of the disease. Those exposed to whooping 
cough should be excluded two weeks from date of last 
exposure. 

Mumps. Exclude ten days after all swelling has 
subsided. Those exposed to mumps should be excluded 
three weeks from date of last exposure. 

Chicken Pox. Exclude until scabs are all off and 
skin smooth two or three weeks, according to the 
severity of the attack. 

Rotheln, German Measles. Exclude from school 
two weeks. Those exposed to rotheln must be excluded 
from school three weeks from date of last exposure. 

Cases of tonsilitis must be excluded on the clinical, 
evidence alone, and throat cultures made for further 
diagnosis. 

Cases presenting suspicious throats, but not definite 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 141 

evidence of disease clinically, must have throat cultures 
made, allowed to return to their classes until the cul- 
tures have been examined, and only excluded in case 
the bacteriologic examination shows exclusion to be 
necessary. 

In making inspections care must be used to disturb 
the child as little as possible, and throat cultures are to 
be made only when good reason therefor exists. 

In making throat examinations, the wooden tongue 
depressors supplied must be used, to the exclusion of 
all other tongue depressors. Each tongue depressor 
must be used only once and then burned. Aseptic 
methods must be employed in all examinations. 

If a child is excluded, brief but sufficient reason there- 
for must be written on the exclusion card. 

Inspectors are forbidden to make any suggestions 
as to the treatment or management of pupils who are 
sick. This is imperative. 

Children recovering from measles, whooping cough, 
mumps, chicken pox, scarlet fever, diphtheria, and 
smallpox must not reenter school without a permit 
from the Department of Health. 

When a pupil is taken sick with an infectious disease 
in a schoolroom, the pupils in the room must be dis- 
missed and the room disinfected. 

If smallpox is found in the eruptive stage, the child 
can be -taken to his home if near and there isolated until 
the ambulance arrives, or isolated in the room where 
found. In doing this no one should be allowed to come 
near the infected child. 

Children properly vaccinated who have been exposed 
to smallpox need not be excluded from school. Those 



142 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

exposed and not vaccinated must be excluded twenty 
days. 

Pupils living in apartment buildings, where an in- 
fectious disease exists, should be excluded from school 
by the principal. A visit to the building by the Inspector 
will determine who can return to school with safety. 
It depends upon the construction of the building and 
the habits of the inmates whether it is safe to let any 
from the building continue in school. The Inspector 
must be the judge. Usually if families use the same 
entrance there is some risk, and yet a case can be so 
well isolated and cared for that all others in the building 
are safe. A visit to the building is necessary to determine 
this. 

All cases of infectious diseases coming under the ob- 
servation of the Inspector which are not properly safe- 
guarded should command his attention. 

Give proper instructions to the family, leave the De- 
partment circular applicable to the case, and take any 
other measures necessary to protect the public health. 
Investigate all suspected cases of infectious diseases in 
your territory and take proper measures for safeguarding 
against the spread of infection. Make daily reports 
to the Chief Medical Inspector upon blanks provided for 
the purpose of each case inspected or investigated. 
^Beginning October 15, School Medical Inspectors will 
vaccinate free of charge any child or pupil who may 
apply to him for vaccination, and must issue a certificate 
of vaccination to those entitled to the same. The In- 
spectors will vaccinate no child without the consent of 
parent or guardian. 

The Department prefers that the family physician 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 143 

should perform vaccination; but if the parent or guard- 
ian of a child wishes it done by the Department the 
child may be taken or sent to the School Medical In- 
spector or Public Vaccinator, whose duty it then is to 
vaccinate such child and furnish a certificate without 
charge. 

Examine every school pupil's arm to determine the 
vaccinal status. Any discovered not complying with 
the vaccination ordinance must be excluded from school 
by the principal. Read the ordinance carefully and be 
governed by it in the matter of vaccination. Inspectors 
must make monthly reports upon blanks furnished for 
that purpose, giving the number of tubes of vaccine 
received during the month, the number of primary 
vaccinations performed, the number of revaccinations 
performed, the number of certificates issued to those 
previously vaccinated within seven years and entitled 
to a certificate without a revaccination, the number 
of attempted vaccinations on primary subject resulting 
in failure to take, and the number of attempts at vac- 
cination in previously vaccinated subject resulting in 
failure to take. 

Inspectors must carry with them a supply of the De- 
partment circulars to hand out for instruction in cases 
of infectious diseases. The circulars are: Information 
for the family in case of contagious diseases. Circulars 
on prevention of consumption. The Vaccination Creed. 
Special circulars on each of the infectious diseases and 
warning slips to distribute and paste up for the public 
to read. Spatulas for tongue depressors. Culture me- 
diums and outfits for Widal test. 



144 



HYGIENE FOR NURSES 








































Q 




a 








B 

u 




^ 




O5 












o 






i 




^" 








!B 








^H 












^ 



















< 
Q 
Z 






H 














< 

Q 











g 








c 

K 
O 


H 






^ 

1 ^ 












c 




1 






i 


W 


2 






^ 


-S 








2 













B O 

hr <J 






I 




52; 


F SCHOO 








ro DI8CONTI 
iLLOWING RE 






MEDICAL i: 

ENT OF 


F SCHOO: 












ro DI8CONTI1 
LLOWING RE 






MEDICAL 


^ 











Q 






s 















O ^ 








(H 


. 








K H 






E-" 


^ 












is 








< 


o 








* 






S 


o 












w B 








PH 


B 















PH 


g 












^ 








P 


g 








is 






Q 


g 












wS 










02 




























Qj HH 








_~ 1 ' 










~ 






^^ 


^r 












ijj 






































S3 ^ 








O 


1-1 








g 






O 














05 

g 








r^ 


_^ 








J S 






^ o 


^ 




















i i 

i 


MEDICO 


H 


H 

D 

PH 

fe 



ADDRESS 


ABOVE-NAMED PUPI 
AT SCHOOL TE 






I 

W r 

t-3 ^^ 

g s 


MEDICO 


_ 




S 
^ 

&, 
c 




1 
K 
C 


ABOVE-NAMED PUPI: 
AT SCHOOL TE 




t 

f 
c 

T 
- 

C 
a 


1 Inspector same 
oil is excluded. 


NM*' 




g 




u. 


H 






Q ^^ 




g 




P^ 




g 






)c 


03 P 






C 

B 

c 


1 


" 




S 
H 






Z 

5 




o 

X 

& 




5 




C 


1 




'S 

s 


'%> 

s-3 


3 
















c 






















o 
o 


c 
i i 















8 


<: 

T 


\ 

H 



















o 


fc 














1 


ju 






















o 
















o 























$ 














o 


S 




















2; 


g 














^ 


d 




















O 

















O 














^ 








p 


W 








O 






r^ 


H 












O 








g 


h 









33 
P 






g 


Ki 













p 








PH 


Q 














PH 


Q 




















tn 










O 






C/3 


BJ 












O 










Q 








X 








O 












K 








CH 


W 








a 




i 


a ^ 


g 












W 






C 

r 


-f< 











h 








pi 












h 






1 


MEDIC. 


i 

~ 

(2 


1 

S 
c 
a 


i i 

i A 


j 

P 
c 

3 C 

< < 


CAUSE c 




i 
p 


i 2 

2 Q 

i a 


( 


k 

u 

5 


c 
c 


C. 

a 




a 
t 
P- 




ADDRESS- 
CAUSE c 






READMI: 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 145 

DEPARTMENT or HEALTH, CITY OF CHICAGO 
MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS 

CHICAGO, 19 

SCHOOL 



NAME OF PUPIL. 



ADDRESS- 



IS relieved from further restrictions and has permission to reentel 
school. 



MEDICAL INSPECTOR. 
This certificate to be given to pupil to present to School Principal. 



SEarnuttg ! ^ 7 A -o-xTT^T/n i Przestroga ! 

- vy /\__[\_[^ J_-LN \JT I 

A vviso ! 43313HX11 

CHICAGO HEALTH DEPARTMENT 
There is- DIPHTHERIA; SCARLET FEVER- In this Neighborhood 

Parents should locate the infected family and keep their chil- 
dren away from it, and especially from any of the children of the 
family, and should not visit it themselves. 

During the danger period parents should also carefully watch 
their children for any suspicious symptoms such as SORE 
THROAT, FEVERISHNESS, HEADACHE, SUDDEN VOMIT- 
ING, RASH, CROUPY COUGH, CLOGGING OF THE NOS- 
TRILS, SWELLINGS ABOUT THE NECK. Some of these 
symptoms indicate Diphtheria; others indicate Scarlet Fever or 
Scarlatina. 

When any of them appear in a child living in an infected neigh- 
borhood, the child should be cared for AT ONCE. 

The HEALTH DEPARTMENT Room 0, City Hall, Telephone 00 
should also be notified so that it may give any needed assistance. 

CHIEF MEDICAL INSPECTOR. 



146 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF SCHOOL MEDICAL 
INSPECTORS 

The city has been divided into eleven districts. A 
Medical Inspector, a Sanitary Inspector, and a Milk In- 
spector are placed in each of these districts. Each of 
these districts is subdivided into nine districts with a 
School Medical Inspector in each of these minor districts. 
The nine School Medical Inspectors will be under the 
direction of the Medical Inspector. Each morning 
before 9 o'clock the location of the infectious diseases 
reported to the Department will be telephoned to the 
School Inspector in the district from which the case is 
reported. The Medical Inspector will have the same 
information from the nine districts. The School In- 
spector will visit all cases reported from his district, see 
that proper isolation is established, determine who from 
contiguous flats or houses can safely remain in school, 
and see that the warning card is on the door or where it 
will best serve the purpose of warning any who may 
approach the infected premises. See also that a warning 
card is posted where the milkman who delivers milk will 
see it, leave the Department circulars giving information 
in cases of contagious diseases and distribute and post 
the small warning leaflet in the near-by neighborhood 
and mail a notification card to the principal of school. 

The Inspector notified will take smears in cases of 
diphtheria to determine when the case is ready for 
termination. When the District Medical Inspector has 
more antitoxin work than he can attend to, the School 
Medical Inspector will aid in this work. When the 
School Inspector is in doubt about a diagnosis he will 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 147 

call upon the District Medical Inspector to help in mak- 
ing a diagnosis. The School Inspector is to have charge 
of all infectious diseases in his restricted territory and 
will be held responsible for the work in the territory 
assigned him. The Medical Inspector will be held re- 
sponsible for the work of the nine School Inspectors in 
his district. To assist the Medical Inspectors three 
diagnosticians have been designated one on each of the 
three sides of the city. In making inspections and in- 
vestigations you will observe the following instructions : 

Inspectors must keep in close touch with the Depart- 
ment of Health so they may be reached without delay 
when wanted. 

Contagious diseases and suspected contagious diseases 
reported to the Department of Health are assigned to 
the Medical Inspectors and School Medical Inspectors 
either for inspection or investigation. 

Cases for inspection are those reported by physicians. 
In these cases see that the family receives a copy of the 
Department " Circular of Information upon the Manage- 
ment of Contagious Diseases/' and give them such further 
advice concerning the best methods to pursue for prevent- 
ing the spread of contagion as you deem necessary. 

Especially instruct the family in regard to the length 
of time cases should be isolated and impress upon them 
the necessity of a thorough disinfection after the case 
has terminated. 

Tell them to have their doctor notify the Department 
when the case is free from giving off contagion and the 
house is ready for disinfection and not before. Dis- 
infectors are frequently sent to families only to find that 
the patient is still in the contagious stage, especially in 



148 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

scarlet fever. This means loss of time to the disinfecting 
force. 

Notify by postal card provided the principal of every 
school in the vicinity, both public and parochial, during 
vacation as well as while school is in session, whom to 
exclude from school and take such other measures in 
the case as may be needed to protect the public health. 
You are the judge of whom it is safe to permit to attend 
school from flats or houses contiguous to infected 
premises. 

If you find the family disregarding the doctor's 
instructions concerning isolation, disinfection of excre- 
tions, etc., supplement his instructions and through your 
own efforts see that the family observes proper precau- 
tions. 

If the case is in any way connected with a shop or 
store, at once make the case safe to the public by one 
of the following plans : 

1. When it is best to do so, the Department of Health 
will remove the patient to a hospital. No one can move 
a person sick with an infectious disease without the 
consent of the Commissioner of Health. 

2. If the patient remains, the room must be shut off 
from the store by sealing cracks of doors and keyholes 
with paper and paste. All communication between the 
sick room and the store must be stopped. 

3. If neither of the above plans is followed the store 
must be closed, the door locked, and the public excluded. 

Cases for investigation are supposed cases, such as 
are reported to the Department through other sources 
than physicians. These you will visit and ascertain 
the nature of the disease, and if found to be scarlet 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 149 

fever, diphtheria, whooping cough, or measles, see that 
the attending physician, if there be one, reports the case 
to the Department, or report it yourself by card, as you 
do in a case where there is no physician. Put up a 
warning card and take the same precautionary measures 
as in cases for inspection. 

Send notices to principals of schools of any and all 
contagious diseases encountered while inspecting and 
investigating cases. 

Make daily reports to the Department of all cases 
inspected or investigated. 

Endeavor to learn the source of infection in every 
case: milk supply, fruit, infected clothing, or persons, 
etc., and communicate to the Department any informa- 
tion of interest which you may learn concerning this 
subject. 

When notified of a suspected case of smallpox, the 
Inspector must go to the case forthwith. An hour's 
delay may result in many needless exposures. 

The following suggestions as to conduct in the presence 
of smallpox should be observed so far as the circum- 
stances of the case will permit with safety. The In- 
spector must supply any deficiency in these instructions 
which the case may demand for the safety of the public. 

When entering a house where there is a suspected 
case of contagious or infectious disease, do not remove 
your hat or overcoat; keep the overcoat buttoned. 

Do not shake hands with any one in the house. Do 
not sit down or touch anything in the house and espe- 
cially avoid touching the patient or bed clothing. To 
expose the patient for examination call upon the patient 
or some one present to remove the clothing for you. 



150 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

When leaving the house have some one open the door, 
so as to avoid touching any infected doorknob. 

Except to vaccinate the inmates of the house, it is 
not necessary to touch anything about the premises ex- 
cept the floor with the soles of your shoes. 

If these precautions are observed there is no danger 
of carrying the disease to others. 

When it is determined the case is one of smallpox, 
fill out the history blank provided for the purpose 
(Form 2), telephone the information to the Department, 
and promptly mail the filled blank to the Chief Medical 
Inspector. 

Telephone instructions as to the disposal of the case, 
whether an ambulance or a carriage is needed, the amount 
of disinfecting to be done, and the number of vaccinators 
needed. 

In filling out the blank secure a list of all who have 
in any way been exposed to the contagion since the first 
day of the sickness, learn if letters or laundry have 
been sent out from the house and where and to whom 
sent. Give the vaccinal status of those exposed so far 
as you can. 

It is the duty of the Inspector to vaccinate or see 
that some other medical inspector vaccinates all who 
are known to be exposed to the infection. Do not 
leave or allow this duty to be done by the family 
physician. It is the duty also of the Inspector to se- 
cure the consent of the patient or family for the removal 
of the patient to the Isolation Hospital. Do not leave 
this duty to the ambulance driver. 

Until the ambulance comes the case must be made 
safe. If it is necessary to police the house to secure 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 15} 

safety, do so. After securing the prompt vaccination 
of all exposed it is the Inspector's duty to see the exposed 
every other day for fifteen or twenty days. If the first 
vaccination does not take, repeat until it does take. 

If there is doubt about the diagnosis, vaccinate the 
inmates of the house, make the case safe to others, and 
see the patient later. 

A Medical Inspector must be courteous and should 
be tactful in all his relations to cases of smallpox, the' 
same as a doctor should be in his private practice. He 
should be a complete master of the 'situation, able to 
dispose of complications and duties as they arise, in a 
proper manner. It should not be burdensome to do 
so, for the reward is always present, the consciousness 
that it is life-saving work. 

Use discretion and secure compliance with the ordi- 
nance without force. 

This can almost always be done, but if necessary 
the police power can be used to enforce compliance with 
the law. 

"The medical department of the Philadelphia High 
School for girls was established in 1893. Prior to this 
time the attendance of any physician was depended upon 
in an emergency, so that much time was lost, and the 
uncertainty of obtaining assistance was great. In 1893 
the services of a graduate of the Woman's Medical 
College were secured. The duties of the head of the 
medical department constantly increased from one hour 
a day to continual attendance from the opening of the 
school at 9 A.M. until the close of the session at 2 P.M. 

" At the beginning of each school year in September all 
vaccination certificates and scars are examined; in doubt- 



152 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

ful cases a certified revaccination is required. Teachers 
at the beginning of each morning session inquire whether 
any student is suffering from sore throat, headache, or 
other ailment ; all such are at once referred to the medical 
room. A daily record of students sent to the medical 
room is carefully kept. Any student with a temperature 
of 100 F. is detained in the 'sick room' until the tem- 
perature becomes normal. If a rise takes place, the 
student is sent home in a carriage. On stormy days 
students who have wet shoes, stockings, or skirts are 
required to report at the medical room, where dry gar- 
ments are provided. All wet clothing is dried in a room 
prepared for the purpose, and is made ready for the 
student at recess in the medical room at noon. Every 
part of the entire building is thoroughly cleansed daily. 
The balustrades and desks throughout are carefully 
cleansed each day with antiseptic solution. The drink- 
ing-water is filtered, then sterilized, and the ice is 
made from sterile water. The sanitary condition of 
the toilet rooms is excellent. There are now individual 
compartments, where formerly there were congregate 
rooms. 

" The medical department is ideal in location, having a 
south and east exposure, with a good supply of sunlight, 
while its situation insures all the quiet necessary. This 
room is supplied with all that is required for any emer- 
gency that is likely to occur. There is an ample supply 
of filtered water and appliances for obtaining boiling 
water. The department is provided with four wicker 
couches with cushions covered with linen slips; the latter 
are frequently removed and laundered while the cushions 
themselves are detached, shaken, and placed in the 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 153 

sunlight. A part of the engine-room space is used foi 
drying clothing." l 

Boarding schools should have not only suitable sick 
rooms, but arrangements for complete isolation in case 
of infectious diseases. 

It is not sufficient to put a patient into one room with 
a nurse and exclude visitors, and call it isolation; but 
the room must be apart from other rooms, preferably 
at the top of the building or in a separate building, and 
must be provided with its own bath room and cooking 
facilities and also some means of allowing the nurse 
to come and go out of the building without contact with 
other pupils. 

The so-called isolation rooms of many schools and 
institutions are so lacking in every detail of isolation, 
that they are a disgrace to intelligent communities. 
There can be no halfway measures regarding isolation; 
either the arrangements isolate or they do not. 

The following circular of Information for the Family 
in the case of Contagious Diseases, issued by the Depart- 
ment of Health of Chicago, while not strictly within the 
medical inspection of schools is used very largely in 
connection with the infectious cases arising in the 
schools, and is an excellent example of the efforts made 
by such bodies in all cities, to help and enlighten those 
who need it, and to control the spread of contagion, and 
is of still further use for nurses who are preparing them- 
selves for visiting nursing among the poor in tenements. 

Many of the milder forms of infectious diseases occur 
where a physician can be employed only for an occa- 
sional visit. 

1 Principles of Hygiene, Bergey. 



154 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

The Department of Health has deemed it advisable 
to issue the following information to the families of those 
so afflicted. 

The information here furnished is not to supplant, 
but to supplement the advice of the medical attendant 
if there be one. 



MANAGEMENT OF CONTAGION 

In any case of infectious disease the patient should be 
placed, if possible, in a room apart from the rooms occu- 
pied by other members of the family. All doors opening 
into the patient's room should be covered with a sheet 
kept wet with a disinfecting solution. A bed sheet, or 
one made of cheap cotton cloth, should be fastened to the 
top of the door frame and down the hinge side of the 
frame, leaving the edge on the lock side free to be turned 
back when passing through the door. The sheet must 
be long enough to allow two or three inches to lie on the 
floor. 

No article of furniture carpets, rugs, curtains, orna- 
ments, books, etc. except the things actually neces- 
sary for the care and comfort of the patient should be 
left in the sick room. Exclude cats, dogs, and other 
pets, including birds, from the room, since these are 
liable to contract and carry some of the contagious 
diseases. 

Isolation to be Effective must be Complete. No per- 
son except the strictly necessary attendants should be 
allowed to enter the sick room. These should wear 
only such clothing as can be boiled in water. The hands 
should be rinsed in a disinfecting fluid immediately 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 155 

after every attention to the patient. The attendant 
should avoid inhaling the patient's breath, and in case 
of diphtheria or croup, if the patient coughs in the at- 
tendant's face she should at once wipe the face with a 
cloth wet with a disinfecting solution. 

The floor of the sick room must not be dry swept. 
Instead of sweeping, go over the floor with a mop or 
cloth wrung out of the disinfectant. And instead of 
dusting, all accessible surfaces as of doors, door- 
knobs, wainscots, window frames and ledges, tables, 
chairs, the exposed parts of the bed frame should be 
wiped with a cloth dampened with the disinfectant. 

All dishes and table utensils used in the sick room must 
be placed in boiling water or rinsed in a disinfecting 
fluid before being taken from the room. 

Flowers brought to the sick should not be thrown out, 
but placed in the disinfecting fluid and then burned. 

A sufficient quantity of a good disinfectant should be 
kept in the sick room in a wooden pail, slop jar, or other 
vessel not metal if the corrosive sublimate solution 
is used and into this all towels, napkins, handker- 
chiefs, pillow slips, sheets, etc., and all articles of clothing 
used in the room must be dipped and wrung out before 
removal. They should be taken to the laundry while 
still wet and there be rinsed in clean water and then 
before drying have them thoroughly -boiled. If the 
carbolic acid solution is used the rinsing is unnecessary, 
as this disinfectant does not injure the boiler. 

All discharges from the mouth and nose in diphtheria, 
scarlet fever, membranous croup, measles, or whoop- 
ing cough, should be received upon pieces of old soft 
cotton or linen, worn handkerchiefs, etc., and burned at 



156 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

once. Do not allow cuspidor or other spit vessel to be 
used in the sick room, and especially do not allow the 
patient to spit on. the floor. If this should accidentally 
happen, wash the place immediately with the strong 
disinfectant. 

The night vessel should be kept one third full of the 
strong fluid, to be emptied not sooner than half an hour 
after each use, and then immediately resupplied with 
fresh fluid. All discharges should be disinfected in this 
way before being emptied into water-closets or otherwise 
disposed of. This is especially important in typhoid fever. 

These precautionary measures should be continued 
after the recovery or death of the patient until the house 
is disinfected. 

A good disinfecting fluid is readily made by dissolving 
a corrosive sublimate tablet in warm water. The tablets 
should be procured only on the physician's prescription 
and used strictly as he directs. The fluid is poisonous if 
swallowed. 

A 15-grain tablet, containing between 7 and 8 grains 
of corrosive sublimate, will make a pint of strong dis- 
infecting fluid, useful for most purposes. Half this 
strength one tablet to a quart of water is sufficient 
for wetting the door sheets and for washing the hands. 

A five per cent solution of carbolic acid is a reliable 
disinfectant, and can be kept in any vessel, as it does 
not materially injure metals. 

One and one half ounces of strong carbolic acid in 
a quart of water makes about the desired strength for 
disinfecting purposes. Carbolic acid is poisonous if 
swallowed, and should be procured and used with the 
same care exercised in using corrosive sublimate. 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 157 

DURATION OF CONTAGION 

It is not possible to fix the time when a person afflicted 
with an infectious disease ceases to be dangerous to the 
public health, as the time may differ in each case, but the 
Department desires to give information that will be a 
practical guide in all cases. 

The information here given is in accordance with the 
best authorities available. 

Diphtheria. The period of isolation should continue 
so long as a microscopical examination shows the presence 
of diphtheria germs. If no microscope is used, isolate 
in mild cases at least ten days after all membrane has 
disappeared from the throat and nose. In severe cases 
wait three weeks after all membrane has disappeared 
from the throat and nose. 

If there remains any discharge from the throat, nose, 
ears, eyes, or if there is evidence of inflammation of the 
kidneys, the time of isolation should be extended till 
these local disorders have disappeared. 

Scarlet Fever or Scarlatina. These two terms refer 
to the same disease. Complete isolation should be 
enforced till all desquamation, or scaling off, of the skin 
is completed and there is entire absence of discharge 
from ears, nose, throat, suppurating glands, or inflamma- 
tion of kidneys. The time required for scaling will vary 
from four to eight weeks. Mild cases, in which scaling is 
not noticeable, with absence of ear, nose, throat, kidney, 
and glandular complications, should be isolated not less 
than six weeks. In severe cases not less than eight weeks 
should be the period of enforced isolation, and if ear, nose, 
throat, glands, or kidneys are diseased prolong the time 



158 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

of isolation until these are well. The Department will 
not act upon any request for disinfection in a case of 
scarlet fever until the above symptoms have disappeared. 
Do not request it. 

Measles. A fatal disease among young children. 
The average death rate among children under two years 
of age is about one death in five cases. Some epidemics 
show a death rate of 30, 35, and even 50 per cent. Iso- 
lation for four weeks should be the rule and longer if 
there is present bronchitis, inflammation of throat, nose, 
or abscess of ear. 

Whooping Cough. Also very destructive in child 
life. The average death rate is about twenty-five per 
cent in children under one year of age. In some epi- 
demics the death rate has been 50 per cent. Death 
from this disease is rare after a child is four years old. 

The aim should be to protect especially children under 
four years of age from contagion of measles and whooping 
cough. The period of isolation for whooping cough 
should be till after the spasmodic stage of cough, which 
is usually eight weeks. 

Mumps should be isolated three weeks, or ten days 
after all swelling has subsided. 

Chicken Pox. Isolate till the scabs are all off and 
the skin smooth. 

Smallpox. The Department of Health takes com- 
plete charge of these cases. 

If properly vaccinated no one can have smallpox. 

DISINFECTION 

Do not ask to have the house disinfected till all 
symptoms of the diseases mentioned under " Duration 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 159 

of Contagion " have disappeared. No matter how well 
the child may appear, until all evidence of remaining 
disease is removed it is useless to disinfect, and criminal 
to let the child mingle with well children. 

When the case is ended soak all sheets, pillow slips, 
towels, and other washable articles in the sick room, 
in the strong disinfectant and remove them while wet 
to the laundry, to be boiled at least thirty minutes. 
Sprinkle thoroughly all surfaces of pillows and of the 
mattresses with the strong disinfectant and then carry 
into the open air, to be exposed to sunshine for at least 
six hours, frequently turning the articles. Mattresses 
and pillows should be burned or sterilized by heat if 
soiled by discharges from the patient. Consult the 
physician on this point. 

Wash the floor and all woodwork, first with the strong 
disinfectant and immediately after with hot water and 
German green soap to be had at the drug store. 
Treat the furniture in the same way. Brush the ceiling 
and walls thoroughly with the disinfectant and then 
repaper or calcimine, after two or three days' exposure 
by open doors and windows. Do not neglect closets, 
shelves, ledges, cornices, or other surfaces on which 
dust may settle. 

The following is the Department method of formalde- 
hyde disinfection : 

The room to be disinfected is sealed and prepared as 
usual for sulphur disinfection, by pasting strips of paper 
over cracks of doors and windows. All its surfaces are 
exposed as much as possible; closet doors are opened 
and their contents, together with the contents of. drawers, 
are removed, scattered about, and the drawers left open; 



160 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

mattresses are set on end; pillows, bedding, clothing 
etc., are suspended from lines stretched across the room 
or spread out on chairs and other objects so as to expose 
all sides; books are opened and the leaves spread in 
short, the room and its contents are so disposed as to 
secure free access of the gas to all parts as fully as 
possible. 

For every 1000 cu. ft. of space in the room, suspend 
by one edge an ordinary bed sheet (2 x 2-|- yds.) from a 
line stretched across the middle of the room. Properly 
sprinkled this will carry without dripping eight (8) 
ounces of formalin the 40 per cent solution of formal- 
dehyde gas which is sufficient to disinfect 1000 cu. ft. 
of space. As many sheets as necessary are used, hung 
at equal distances apart. The ordinary rather coarse 
cotton sheet should be used in order to secure rapid 
evaporation. The house should remain sealed not less 
than eight hours. 

A rosehead sprinkler used by florists can be used for 
sprinkling the sheets. 

The practice of burning a few sulphur candles in the 
house does no good and should be abandoned. 

Principals of schools should not permit children from 
an infected house to reenter school without a termina- 
tion card from the Department of Health. 

MANAGEMENT OF FUNERAL 

In case of death from contagious disease the body 
should be placed in a coffin as soon as possible, the coffin 
immediately sealed and not again opened. 

There should be no flowers. The funeral should be 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 161 

held within thirty-six hours after death and should be 
private. 

By a private funeral is meant one that is attended 
only by members of the household already exposed to 
the infection and such adults as are necessary to aid the 
undertaker. All others, especially children, should not 
be exposed to the contagion. No visitors will be allowed 
in the infected house. 



CHAPTER X 

HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 

THE best authorities differ in their estimate of the value 
of statistics of death rates of the various occupations. 
While not disputing that many occupations cause or 
are a predisposing factor in causing disease, the wide 
difference in age, heredity, habits, and surroundings of 
individual workmen makes such statistics misleading. 

Many occupations, such as the army, navy, factories, 
and railways, are dangerous to life but not necessarily to 
health. 

Tuberculosis is common among dressmakers, tailors, 
cutlery grinders, and the factory workers of cotton and 
woolen mills, but the disease germs are not found in the 
lint nor dust, but the conditions incident to overcrowding, 
bad air, and inhalation of dust lower the vitality and 
irritate the lungs, making them fruitful soil for infec- 
tion. If all of these occupations could be carried on out- 
of-doors the high death rate from tuberculosis would be 
speedily lowered. 

Low wages may be considered one of the most im- 
portant indirect causes of loss of health in the working 
classes. 

Poverty means overcrowding, filth, bad air, and in- 
sufficient food and clothing, all of which cannot be 
offset by sanitary occupation. Low wages also compel 
child labor and the woman of the family doing treble 

162 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 163 

duty, in childbearing, housework, and wage earning 
two evils whose bad effects are felt by succeeding gen- 
erations. 

Location of occupation often makes the work sanitary 
or the reverse; a factory situated in the country or a 
small town with an abundance of sunlight and good air 
and the same factory situated in a crowded city, the 
workmen breathing foul air, soot, and dust, and working 
by artificial light, cannot be judged in the same way. 
Fortunately for the good of the nation, employers, legis- 
lators, and sanitarians are making a combined effort 
to improve the sanitary conditions surrounding all 
classes of workers. 

In many states laws governing the air space, ventila- 
tion, lighting, heating, hours of labor, and employment 
of women and children in manufacturing industries, 
have done wonders in improving the condition of the 
laboring classes. 

In classifying the occupations from the standpoint 
of hygiene, they may be divided into " (1) Those which 
are dangerous to health from the materials used; (2) 
Those which in themselves are harmless but are carried 
on under unsanitary conditions; (3) Those involving 
danger of injury; (4) Those which are dangerous neither 
to health nor life." 1 

1. Those Occupations which are dangerous to Health 
from the Materials Used 

Irritating gases: 
Ammonia. 

Chlorine, from brick glazing and bleaching powder, 

1 Harrington's divisions. 



164 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

causes catarrh, loss of sense of smell, bronchi^ 
asthma, and decay of teeth. 

Hydrochloric acid, from alkali works and galvanizing 
iron, has the same effect as chlorine to a lesser 
degree. 

Sulphur dioxide, from smelting and match works 
and in the manufacture of sulphuric acid, has no 
very serious effects and disturbs the digestion 
more than the breathing. 

Nitrous fumes, from contact of nitric acid and metals, 

said to cause phthisis. 
Poisonous gases and fumes: 

Carbon monoxide, from many manufacturing opera- 
tions, causes disturbances of the digestion and 
weakness both mental and physical. 

Carbon disulphide, used to dissolve fats and in rub- 
ber works, causes headache, disordered vision, 
dizziness, and convulsions in the rubber workers; 
usually no permanent injury results. 

Naphtha, used for garment cleaning, produces 
vomiting, headache, dizziness, and hysteria, 
symptoms sometimes persisting for several weeks. 

Mercury, used in the manufacture of mirrors, ther- 
mometers, barometers, electric batteries, and felt- 
ing, produces the usual symptoms of mercurial 
poisoning, fetid breath, soreness of teeth, and 
later a dark line at their upper margin, saliva- 
tion. 

Phosphorus, used in the manufacture of matches, 
may cause necrosis of jaw; occurs less fre- 
quently than formerly owing to improved ma- 
chinery. 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 165 

Arsenic, from smelting operations. The fumes of 
arsenic are less dangerous than dust containing 
arsenic. 

Brass, in brass founding, produces " brass founder's 
ague." 

Wood alcohol, fumes sometimes arising from varnish 

may cause temporary blindness. 
Offensive gases and vapors arising from soap mak- 
ing, tanning, glue making, fertilizer making, 
bone boiling, and other offensive industries, have 
not been found injurious to workmen, nor 
to those persons living in the vicinity. New 
workmen often suffer from headache, nausea, 
and loss of appetite, but the symptoms soon 
disappear. 
Poisonous dusts : 

Arsenic, used in printing wall paper, cretonnes, 
artificial flowers (especially hazardous), and green 
glazed paper for box covers, causes eczema and 
ulcers, nausea with metallic taste, pain or soreness 
in abdomen, itching of eyelids, symptoms in- 
creasing. 

Lead, one of the most common and disastrous of the 
industrial poisons, is taken both by inhalation 
and carried into the mouth by soiled fingers. 
Used in paper glazing, artificial flowers, painting, 
plumbing, printing, enameling, and in making 
china and other pottery. Causes paralysis of 
muscles of forearm called " wrist-drop," pallor, 
thirst, loss of appetite, fetid breath, emaciation, 
colic, and rheumatic pains. Frequently results 
in death. 



166 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Irritating dusts: 

Metallic dust, from glass and steel grinding, gem 
polishing, stone work, mica dust. Pneumonia 
and phthisis are common among the workmen. 
Vegetable dusts; dusts from cotton and linen are 
especially irritating and the workers generally 
unhealthy, phthisis being common. Carpenters 
do not suffer from wood dust, as they work out- 
of-doors, while cabinet workers indoors are 
subject to phthisis. Millers do not seem to 
suffer from grain dust. Tobacco dust causes 
nasal and bronchial catarrh with disturbances 
of digestion and nervous system. Abortion is 
said to be common with the women workers in 
tobacco. 

Animal dusts, from wool, silk, fur, bristles, horn, 
ivory, bone, and hair are all more or less irritat- 
ing. Wool is said to be less so than cotton or 
linen, while bone, ivory, and horn have the same 
effects as the metallic dusts. 

Infective matter in dust, from rags, hides, wool, and 
horsehair. Especially dangerous from anthrax 
when workmen have any cuts or abrasions upon 
the hands, and from cholera, scarlet fever, 
smallpox, and other infectious diseases; "wool- 
sorter's " disease. 

Exposure to heat, such as in the work of cooks, bakers, 
engineers, firemen, miners, workmen in rolling 
mills, glass factories, and many others, causes 
exhaustion. The sudden chilling of the body 
provokes catarrh, rheumatism, kidney, and skin 
diseases among these workmen. 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 167 

Exposure to dampness indoors is detrimental to health, 
while workers out-of-doors, such as fishermen, 
sailors, and drivers, are usually healthy and long- 
lived. 

Atmospheric Pressure. Tunnel and bridge builders 
who work in caissons under water have a disease 
known as " caisson disease." 

Restricted attitude in many trades causes deformities 
and is often a factor in causing phthisis. 

2. Those Occupations which in themselves are Harmless 
but are carried on under Unsanitary Conditions 

To this class belong all indoor work carried on under 
such bad conditions as overcrowding, lack of light and 
air, and uncleanliness. The work of a clerk in a shoe 
shop would hardly be considered a menace to health, 
but if the shop be in the basement of a department store, 
where low ceilings, overheating, artificial lighting, and 
overcrowding are continually present, the clerk would 
no doubt become pale, languid, and dull, besides having 
little resistance to any disease, and it is this loss of 
resistance (lowering of opsonic index) which renders this 
class of workers so liable to all diseases. Sewing could 
not be called an unhealthy occupation, but the dress- 
makers, tailors, and sweat-shop workers, who toil in 
crowded, dark rooms, are frequent victims of tuberculosis. 

The list of such occupations might be carried on 
almost indefinitely and the conclusions be the same; viz., 
that it is not the work, but the conditions surrounding 
the worker both in the shop and home, the latter often 
as unsanitary as the former, which result in anaemia, 



168 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

dyspepsia, depressed spirits, and loss of resistance to 
all diseases. 

3. Occupations Involving Danger of Injury 

Miners, factory workers of all kinds, machinists, and 
railway employees, are exposed to greater danger to life 
and limb than those in other occupations. So enormous 
has become the loss of life and crippling of workmen 
in this country that a general awakening to the need 
of better protection for laborers is taking place. 

Two exhibitions have been held, one in Philadelphia 
and one in Chicago, showing the dangerous conditions 
under which men, women, and children are employed, 
together with a large number of safety devices for their 
protection. The great number of accidents occurring 
upon all railways includes passengers as well as em- 
ployees, and the better protection given to both passen- 
gers and workmen in European countries may be readily 
seen in the following statistics: in 1907, 647 persons 
were killed by railway accidents in the United States, 
18 in France, 74 in Germany, and 119 in Great Britain. 
In the case of workmen killed, the majority are com- 
paratively young, vigorous men, leaving young families 
unprovided for, which are in turn left to struggle with 
poverty and all of its necessary deprivations. 

Doubtless another decade will see the enactment of 
many protective laws for this class of workmen. 

4. Occupations which are Dangerous neither to Life 
nor Health 

This class of occupation is too extended and too well 
known for enumeration here. Persons engaged in 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 169 

sedentary work frequently suffer from indigestion, in- 
somnia, nervousness, and debility, but these are caused 
by lack of physical exercise to a great degree, and can- 
not be attributed to the occupation. The nervous and 
mental disturbances are usually from monotony. 

Farmers' wives and many other women whose house- 
work and childbearing keep them in a monotonous 
routine for years at a time are frequent victims of 
mental and nervous disorders. In these cases there is 
no lack of physical exercise, on the contrary too much, 
but there is lack of fresh air and often lack of proper 
food, as they are too exhausted to prepare food, or to 
eat if it is prepared, while many of them are deprived 
of any leisure or diversion. 

SECTION II 

The Employment of Women and Children. The most 
serious problem of industrial hygiene is that of the em- 
ployment of women and children. The consequences of 
long hours, confinement, and unsanitary conditions are 
far-reaching, the effects being seen in the second and 
third generations. It is within a hundred years that the 
first laws were enacted for the protection of women and 
children. That a law was necessary to restrict the 
working hours of children to twelve hours a day seems too 
monstrous to be possible, but little boys have worked 
that many hours at night in the glass factories of certain 
states in this country within the last two years. 

The United States census of 1900 reports 500,000 
children between the ages of ten and fourteen years 
who could neither read nor write, and were mostly em- 



170 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

ployed in the cotton fields and mills of the South. Med- 
ical statistics upon the results of child-labor are ex- 
tremely meager, although it does not require any great 
amount of intelligence to fully understand how disas- 
trous to physical, mental, and moral health such work 
must be. Like many other questions the cruelty and 
immorality does not appeal to men, and adequate pro- 
tection will never be given in all states until the harm 
from an economic standpoint is forced upon the nation. 
In another generation, when the country has need of every 
possible able-bodied man for workmen and soldiers, there 
will be an awakening to the evil effects of child-labor. 1 

The brief for the defendant, in case No. 107 of the 
Supreme Court of the United States, October, 1907, 
cites the testimony of many eminent authorities upon 
the necessity of restricting the hours of labor for women, 
also giving an account of the legislation enacted in many 
foreign countries as well as in our own states, from which 
the following is quoted : - 

"The British law of 1844 was the first statute in any 
country limiting the hours of labor for adult women. 
It simply extended to women the provisions of the Act 
of 1833, which had restricted the work of children in 
textile mills to twelve hours per day. In 1847 the legal 
working time for women as well as children in textile 
mills was reduced to ten hours per day. By further 

1 References : Proceedings of the National Child Labor Com- 
mittee. Report by the Commission on Industrial and Technical 
Education in Massachusetts. School or Work ? issued by the Con- 
sumers League, Chicago. Report of the case, Curt Miller v. State 
of Oregon, Supreme Court of the United States, October Term, 
1907, No. 107. The Woman Who Toils, by Mrs. John Van Vorst 
and Miss Marie Van Vorst. 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 171 

legislation in 1867, 1878, 1891, and 1901 further restric- 
tions were introduced. The law, subject to certain 
exceptions allowing overtime, is in substance as follows 
(Law of 1901, 1 Edw. VII. ch. 22): 
" ' Hours. 
" i Textile Factories. (Sec. 24.) 

" ' The period of employment, except on Saturday, 
shall either begin at 6 A.M. and end at 6 P.M., or begin 
at 7 A.M. and end at 7 P.M. 

" ' There shall be allowed for meals during said period 
of employment on every day except Saturday not less 
than two hours, of which one hour at the least shall be 
before 3 P.M. 

" ' Special regulations for a shorter day on Saturdays. 

'"Non-textile Factories and Workshops. (Sec. 26.) 

" ' The period of employment, except on Saturdays, 
shall either begin at 6 A.M. and end at 6 P.M., or begin 
at 7 A.M. and end at 7 P.M., or begin at 8 A.M. and end 
at 8 P.M. 

" ' There shall be allowed for meals during the said 
period of employment on every day except Saturday not 
less than one and one half hours, of which one hour at 
the least shall be before 3 P.M. 

'"Special regulations for a shorter workday on Satur- 
days. 

" ' In a Workshop which does not employ Children or Young 
People. (Sec. 29.) 

"'The period of employment shall, except on Satur- 
days, be a specified period of twelve hours taken between 
6 A.M. and 10 P.M. 



172 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

11 ' There shall be allowed to a woman for meals and 
absence from work during the period of employment 
not less than one and one half hours.' " 

France, Switzerland, Austria, Holland, Italy, and 
Germany, all have laws restricting the hours, thirteen 
hours being the maximum granted and that only for 
" overtime" in special seasons, for not more than two 
weeks at one time, nor for more than forty days in one 
year. Spain has recently enacted a law forbidding the 
employment of women within four weeks after child- 
birth. 

In the United States, " twenty States of the Union, 
including nearly all of those in which women are largely 
employed in factory or similar work, have found it nec- 
essary to take action for the protection of their health 
and safety and the public welfare, and have enacted 
laws limiting the hours of labor for adult women. 

"This legislation has not been the result of sudden 
impulse or passing humor, it has followed deliberate 
consideration, and been adopted in the face of much 
opposition. More than a generation has elapsed be- 
tween the earliest and the latest of these acts. 

"In no instance has any such law been repealed. 
Nearly every amendment in any law has been in the line 
of strengthening the law or further reducing the working 
time. 

"The earliest statute in the United States which 
undertook to limit the hours of labor for women in 
mechanical or manufacturing establishments was Wis- 
consin Statute, 1867, ch. 83, which fixed the hours 
of labor as eight. The act, however, provided a penalty 
only in case of compelling a woman to work longer hours. 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 173 

"The earliest act which effectively restricted the hours 
of labor for women was Massachusetts Statute, 1874, 
ch. 34, which fixed the limit at ten hours. The pas- 
sage of the Massachusetts Act was preceded by prolonged 
agitation and repeated official investigations. The first 
legislative inquiry was made as early as 1865. 

"After the Massachusetts Act had been in force six 
years, an elaborate investigation of its economic effects 
was undertaken by the Massachusetts Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, under the supervision of its chief, Mr. Carroll 
D. Wright. His report, published in 1881 (Twelfth An- 
nual Report of the Massachusetts Bureau of Statistics of 
Labor), to the effect that the reduction of the hours of 
labor had not resulted in increasing the cost or reducing 
wages, led to the passage, in 1885 and 1887, of the ten 
hour law for women in Rhode Island, Maine, New Hamp- 
shire, and Connecticut, and largely influenced the legisla- 
tion in other States. 

"In the United States, as in foreign countries, there 
has been a general movement to strengthen and to ex- 
tend the operation of these laws." 

"THE DANGERS OF LONG HOURS 
" PHYSICAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN 

"The dangers of long hours for women arise from their 
special physical organization taken in connection with the 
strain incident to factory and similar work. 

"Long hours of labor are dangerous for women pri- 
marily because of their special physical organization. 
In structure and function women are differentiated from 
men. Besides these anatomical and physiological dif- 



174 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

ferences, physicians are agreed that women are funda- 
mentally weaker than men in all that makes for en- 
durance : in muscular strength, in nervous energy, in the 
powers of persistent attention and application. Over- 
work, therefore, which strains endurance to the utmost, 
is more disastrous to the health of women than of men, 
and entails upon them more lasting injury.'' 

Report of Select Committee on Shops Early Closing Bill, 
British House of Commons, 1895 

Dr. Percy Kidd, physician in Brompton and London 
Hospitals : - 

"The most common effect I have noticed of the long 
hours is general deterioration of health; very general 
symptoms which we medically attribute to overaction, 
and debility of the nervous system ; that includes a great 
deal more than what is called nervous disease, such as 
indigestion, constipation, a general slackness, and a great 
many other indefinite symptoms. 

"Are those symptoms more marked in women than in 
men? 

"I think they are much more marked in women. I 
should say one sees a great many more women of this 
class than men; but I have seen precisely the same 
symptoms in men, I should not say in the same propor- 
tion, because one has not been able to make anything 
like a statistical inquiry. There are other symptoms, 
but I mention those as being the most common. Another 
symptom especially among women is anaemia, bloodless- 
ness or pallor, that I have no doubt is connected with 
long hours indoors." (Page 215.) 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 175 

Hygiene of Occupation, in Reference Handbook of the 
Medical Sciences. George M. Price, M.D., Medical 
Sanitary Inspector, Health Department of the City 
of New York. Vol. VI 

"In many industries . . . female labor is very largely 
employed ; and the effect of work on them is very detri- 
mental to health. The injurious influences of female 
labor are due to the following factors: (1) The com- 
parative physical weakness of the female organism; 
(2) The greater predisposition to harmful and poisonous 
elements in the trades; (3) The periodical semi-patholog- 
ical state of health of women; (4) The effect of labor on 
the reproductive organs; and (5) The effects on the 
offspring. As the muscular organism of woman is less 
developed than that of man, it is evident that those 
industrial occupations which require intense, constant, 
and prolonged muscular efforts must become highly 
detrimental to their health. This is shown in the gen- 
eral debility, ansemia, chlorosis, and lack of tone in most 
women who are compelled to work in factories and in 
shops for long periods. 

"The increased susceptibility of women to industrial 
poisons and to diseases has been demonstrated by a great 
number of observers. The female organism, especially 
when young, offers very little resistance to the inroads 
of disease and to the various dangerous elements of cer- 
tain trades. Hirt says, 'It must be conceded that 
certain trades affect women a great deal more injuriously 
than men;' and he mentions, among others, the effects 
of lead, mercury, phosphorus, and other poisons. Even 
where there are no special noxious elements, work may 



176 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

produce, as already mentioned, harmful effects on the 
health of women; but when to the general effects of 
industrial occupation are added the dangers of dust, 
fumes, and gases, we find that the female organism suc- 
cumbs very readily, as compared with that of the male. 
Schuler found the frequency of sickness in females under 
eighteen, as compared with that of men of the same age 
is as 174 to 100. Miss Mary E. Abrams (Oliver, Dan- 
gerous Trades) found that out of 138 lead-poisoning 
cases in Newcastle, where the number of men and 
women workers was about the same, there were ninety- 
four cases among the women and forty-one among the 
men. She also found that out of the twenty-three 
deaths from plumbism in the years 1889-1892, twenty- 
two were women and only one was a man. The women 
were all between seventeen and thirty years of age. 
These figures are substantiated by Hirt, Arlidge, C. Paul, 
Tardien, and others. The predisposition of women in 
industrial occupations to disease in general is greater 
than it is in men, as was proven by Hirt in his statistics 
of tuberculosis among workers. The effect of work on 
the physical development of women was found to be very 
detrimental, especially when they were very young. 
Arlidge says that in those who from their youth work in 
high temperatures, the bones and joints are imperfectly 
developed, and that they are liable to female deformities 
and to narrow pelves. Herkner found in his studies 
of Belgian female workers that girls who are engaged 
in mines suffered from deformed joints, from deformities 
of the spinal column, and from narrow pelves. 

" It has been estimated that out of every one hundred 
days women are in a semi-pathological state of health 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 177 

for from fourteen to sixteen days. The natural con- 
gestion of the pelvic organs during menstruation is aug- 
mented and favored by work on sewing-machines and 
other industrial occupations necessitating the constant 
use of the lower part of the body. Work during these 
periods tends to induce chronic congestion of the uterus 
and appendages, and dysmenorrhoea and flexion of the 
uterus are well known affections of working girls. 
(Page 321.) 

Effects of the Factory System. By Allen Clarke. 
London, 1899 

" Greater speed a improved machinery, whereby the 
work is increased six-fold, resulting in physical deteriora- 
tion and mental worry. (Page 41.) 

"The toil is ceaseless; the machinery demands con- 
stant watching. . . . Their feet are never still; their 
hands are full of tasks; their eyes are always on the 
watch; they toil in an unending strain that is cruel on 
the nerves. (Page 49.) 

" And all these hours ten hours a day spinner 
and weaver are on their feet; no sitting down; no rest- 
ing; one must keep up to the machinery though agonized 
with headache or troubled by any other complaint. 
While the engine runs the workers must stand." (Page 
51.) 



Report of the United States Industrial Commission, 1900 

"Mrs. Robertson tells me that when she was a girl, 
to run one or two looms was as much as any woman 

N 



178 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

would have tried. Now, in some instances, there are 
women running nine looms, and the looms have more 
than doubled or trebled their speed. This means more 
work and harder work." (Page 63.) 



Report of the United States Industrial Commission, 1901 

"It is brought out that in nearly all occupations an 
increasing strain and intensity of labor is required by 
modern methods of production. . . . The introduction 
of machinery and the division of labor have made it 
possible to increase greatly the speed of the individual 
workman. . . . The testimony of a representative of 
the Cotton Weavers' Association shows this increasing 
strain of work. He says : 

"'Anybody who works in the mills now knows it is 
not like what it was twenty-five or thirty years ago, 
because the speed of the machinery has been increased 
to such an extent, and they have to keep up with it.' 
(Page 763.) 

" Even these cases where machinery has not increased 
the intensity of exertion, a long workday with the 
machine, especially where work is greatly specialized, 
in many cases reduces the grade of intelligence. The 
old handwork shops were schools of debate and dis- 
cussion, and they are so at the present time where 
they survive in country districts; but the factory im- 
poses silence and discipline for all except the highest. 
Long workdays under such conditions tend to inertia 
and dissipation when the day's work is done." (Page 
772.) 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 179 

Massachusetts Bureau of Statistics of Labor. Domestic 
Labor and Woman's Work, 1872 

"In the cotton mills at Fitchburg the women and 
children are pale, crooked, and' sickly-looking. The 
women appear dispirited, and the children without the 
bloom of childhood in their cheeks, or the elasticity that 
belongs to that age. Hours, 60 to 67f a week." (Page 
94.) 

Age and Sex in Occupations. Twentieth Century Prac- 
tice of Medicine, 1895, Vol. III. By Dr. James H. 
Lloyd. 

. "Woman may suffer in health in various ways that 
do not affect materially her mortality neurasthenia, 
the bane of overworked and underfed women, does not 
leave a definite trace on the mortality tables. 

"Again, woman's ill-health and drudgery in a factory 
may affect her progeny in a way that the statistician 
cannot estimate. (Page 326.) 

"Women are said to suffer from derangements and 
displacements from occupations requiring long standing 
and certain movements of the body, while the lacteal 
secretion is impaired by some occupations, and also by 
enforced absence of mothers from their nursing infants. 
(Page 327.) 

"Neurasthenia from overwork. ... It cannot be 
ignored, because among its well recognized and active 
causes is the strain of excessive labor. (Page 488.) 

"I have been struck . . . with the numerous facts 
that have come to my notice tending to convince me that 



180 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

one of the most common effects of overwork and pool 
hygiene in industrial life is an ill-defined condition of 
neurasthenia, insomnia, headache, and pains in and 
along the spine . . . extreme lassitude and weakness 
occur. 

"The treatment of neurasthenia from overwork should 
be first by removing or modifying the cause as much as 
possible." (Page 490.) 



Report to the Local Governing Board on Proposed 
Changes in Hours and Ages of Employment in 
Textile Factories, by J. H. Bridges, M.D., and 
T. Holmes. British Parliamentary Papers, 1873. 
Vol. LV. (Page 39.) 

" Experience afforded by residence in the worsted 
manufacturing town of Bradford, and extensive practice 
among its population during periods of from one to 
thirty-five years : 

"A. Amongst the women of factory operatives, much 
more than among the general population, derangements 
of the digestive organs are common, e.g., pyrosis, sick- 
ness, constipation, vertigo, and headache, generated by 
neglect of the calls of nature through the early hours of 
work, the short intervals at meals, the eating and drink- 
ing of easily prepared foods, as bread, tea, and coffee, 
and the neglect of meat and fresh cooked vegetables. 
Other deranged states of a still worse character are 
present, e.g. leucorrhoea and too frequent and profuse 
menstruation. Cases also of displacement, flexions, and 
versions of the uterus, arising from the constant standing 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 181 

and the increased heat of and confinement in the mill. 
. . . (Edema and varicose veins of the legs are common 
amongst female mill- workers of middle age. 

" Q. Has the labor any tendency to increase the rate 
of infant mortality? 

" A. Yes. The evils occurring in women as detailed 
in answer to question 2 indirectly affect the more perfect 
growth of the child in utero, and dispose it when born 
more easily to become diseased. 

"Signed on behalf of the Bradford Medico Chirurgical 
Society, at a meeting held February 4, 1873. 
" Sub-Committee. 

" President, J. H. Bell, M.D. 
"P. E. Miall, M.R.C.S. 

"Secretary, David Goyder, M.D." 



Report of the British Chief Inspector of Factories and 
Workshops, 1873. Dr. R. H. Leach, Certifying 
Surgeon for over Thirty Years. 

11 Shorten their hours of labor, for I believe that scores 
of infants are annually lost under the present system. 
As things now stand, a mother leaves her infant (say of 
two months old) at 6 A.M., often asleep in bed, at 8 she 
nurses it, then until 12.30 the child is bottle fed, or 
stuffed with indigestible food. On her return at noon, 
overheated and exhausted, her milk is unfit for the child's 
nourishment, and this state of things is again repeated 
until 6 P.M.; the consequence is, that the child suffers 
from spasmodic diarrhoea, often complicated with con- 
vulsions and ending in death." 



182 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 



La Reglementation Legate du Travail des Femmes et 
des Enfants dans ^Industrie Italienne. Lionel 
Baudoin. 

"At the International Congress at Milan, on accidents 
among the laboring class, in May, 1894, Mr. Luigi 
Belloc (Factory Inspector of the Department of Labor) 
represented Italy. He stated that the continuous 
motion of the body taxes the nervous system, causing 
the gravest troubles. The sewing-machine, which re- 
quires of the operator 40,000 movements a day, causes 
in the long run abdominal and renal troubles, disar- 
rangement of the menstrual function, and falling and 

deviations of the uterus. Functional weaknesses and 

* 

paralysis are the result of the continual performance of 
the same movement. The necessity of standing or 
sitting for the whole day causes malformation of the 
body or curvature of the spine, as a result of the strained 
position. The attention required in watching a machine, 
especially an automatic one, is very fatiguing, on account 
of the large number of wheels operating at the same 
time which need attention. 

" Women employed in the manufacture of tobacco and 
of matches are subject to gastric, intestinal troubles, 
and affections of the respiratory tract, necrosis of the 
jaw, and are liable to miscarriage. Women employed 
in sorting rags used in the manufacture of paper are 
liable to smallpox or carbuncle. Tuberculosis spreads 
with alarming rapidity, especially among cotton and 
wool weavers. Those whom tuberculosis spares drag 
along with anaemia, the most common malady of the 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 183 

women factory workers, especially the textile workers, 
who. are subject to long hours of labor. . . . 

"For the cotton industry in particular Mr. Luigi 
Belloc demands the ten-hour day." (Page 14.) 

Infant Mortality: A Social Problem. Geo. Newman, 
M.D., London, 1906. 

"Physical fatigue, particularly if accompanied by a 
strain and stress, are likely to exert a decided effect in 
the production of premature birth, particularly if these 
conditions are accompanied by long hours of work and 
poor or insufficient nourishment." (Page 80.) 

Report of the German Imperial Factory Inspectors, 1895. 

" The ten-hour day, with the exceptions necessary for 
certain trades, is a measure which can be introduced 
without great difficulty, and which would prevent many 
dangers threatening the health of workers. Many acci- 
dents are no doubt due to the relaxed vigilance and 
lessening of bodily strength following excessive hours of 
work." (Page 369.) 

Report of the British Chief Inspector of Factories and 
Workshops, 1900. 

" One can only feel surprise that accidents are not more 
numerous (in laundries), when one realizes that the 
slightest carelessness or inattention may result in the 
fingers or hand being drawn between the hot cylinders, 
and when one considers how easily such inattention 
may arise in the case of the overtired young workers." 
(Page 383.) 



184 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

Report of British Chief Inspector of Factories and Work- 
shops, 1903. 

"The comparative immunity from accidents in the 
laundries in the West Riding of Yorkshire may be possi- 
bly due in some measure to the moderate hours of 
employment. 

"The incidence of accidents according to time of day 
is somewhat surprising, the most dangerous hours ap- 
parently being 11 A.M. to 12 noon and 4 to 6 P.M. . . . 
Probably 11 A.M. to 12 noon is more generally than any 
other time the last tiring hour of a five hours' spell; 
4-6 P.M. covers the time when most generally the tran- 
sition is from daylight to artificial light." (Page 210.) 

"Reference was also made (in the Thirteenth Inter- 
national Congress of Hygiene), although figures were not 
adduced, to the alleged increase in the number of acci- 
dents which occur late in the working-day when the 
effect of intellectual and physical fatigue have made 
themselves apparent." (Page 298.) 

Massachusetts Legislative Document. House, 1866, 

No. 98. 

"Overwork is the fruitful source of innumerable evils. 
Ten and eleven hours daily of hard labor are more than 
the human system can bear, save in a few exceptional 
cases. ... It cripples the body, ruins health, shortens 
life. It stunts the mind, gives no time for culture, no 
opportunity for reading, study, or mental improvement. 
It leaves the system jaded and worn, with no ability to 
study. ... It tends to dissipation in various forms. 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 185 

The exhausted system craves stimulants. This opens 
the door to other indulgences, from which flow not only 
the degeneracy of individuals, but the degeneracy of the 
race." (Page 24.) 

Relations between Labor and Capital. U.S. Senate Com- 
mittee, 1883. Vol. I. Testimony of Robert Howard, 
Mule-Spinner in Fall River Cotton Mills. 

"I have noticed that the hard, slavish overwork is 
driving those girls into the saloons, after they leave the 
mills evenings . . . good, respectable girls, but they 
come out so tired and so thirsty and so exhausted . . . 
from working along steadily from hour to hour and 
breathing the noxious effluvia from the grease and other 
ingredients used in the mill. 

" Wherever you go . . . near the abodes of people who 
are overworked, you will always find the sign of the rum- 
shop. 

" Drinking is most prevalent among working people 
where the hours 'of labor are long." (Page 647.) 

President Roosevelt 9 s Annual Message delivered to Second 
Session of 59th Congress. December 4, 1906. 

"More and more our people are growing to recognize 
the fact that the questions which are not merely of in- 
dustrial but of social importance outweigh all others; 
and these two questions (labor of women and children) 
most emphatically come in the category of those which 
affect in the most far-reaching way the home life of the 
Nation. 



186 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

The Working Hours of Female Factory-hands. From 
the Reports of Factory Inspectors, collated in the 
Imperial Home Office. Published by Von Decker. 
Berlin, 1905. 

"The inspector for Breslau says, 'The reduction of the 
working-day to ten hours is such a decided step in ad- 
vance, and is of such marked and wholesome influence 
on the mental, physical, and moral status of the entire 
working population, that its introduction should be 
emphatically urged.' 

"The inspector for Cologne says, 'The reduction of 
the working-day for all women over sixteen years must 
be regarded as a necessity for both moral and hygienic 
reasons.' 

"The inspector for Hanover says, 'The reasons for the 
reduction of the working-day to ten hours 

(a) The physical organization of woman, 

(&) Her maternal functions, 

(c) The rearing and education of the children, 

(d) The maintenance of the home 

are all so important and so far reaching that the need 
for such reduction need hardly be discussed.' 

"Another inspector says, ' Considering the detrimental 
physical effects of factory work, its nerve-exhausting 
character, its ruinous influence on family life and the 
care of children, and, indeed, under all the aspects of 
the physical, moral, and mental development of the 
working class, the reduction of the legal working-day 
for women must be regarded as an emphatic demand 



HYGIENE OF OCCUPATION 187 

and a moral obligation, whose introduction must be 
urged after a careful and conscientious weighing of all 
the reasons for and against it.' ' (Page 106.) 

Report of the Washington Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
1905-1906. 

"The present law prohibits the employment of any 
female worker for a longer period than ten hours in any 
one calendar day. Splendid results have been obtained 
through the operation of this law, for much as one may 
dislike to credit it, there are employers who would in- 
sist upon working their female help from twelve to 
sixteen hours per day did the law not stand in their 
way." 

These extended quotations have been made to illus- 
trate how widespread are the evils resulting from the 
employment of women in the industries, knowledge of 
which many women entirely lack. 

Nurses in public hospitals and visiting nurses are fre- 
quently brought in contact with the unfortunate victims, 
and should understand that not only the individual, but 
the nation, suffers from their loss of health. 



CHAPTER XI 

DISINFECTION 

BESIDES the sanitary measures taken for the preven- 
tion of disease, certain agents are employed for the de- 
struction of the bacteria of specific diseases, to limit 
the spreading of infectious diseases. These agents are 
known as disinfectants and antiseptics. 

Disinfectants are divided into three classes: light, 
heat, and chemicals. 

Light. The direct rays of the sun are powerfully 
disinfectant; sunlight destroys or retards the growth of 
many disease organisms, while diffused daylight and 
electric light are much less effective. The bacilli of 
tuberculosis has been destroyed by direct sunlight in 
from a few minutes to a few hours ; typhoid fever bacilli, 
anthrax spores, and cholera bacilli are also destroyed 
by sunlight. 

This germicidal effect of sunlight should be appre- 
ciated in the location of houses and the arrangement of 
windows, as well as in the care of the house, which should 
daily utilize the sunlight to render the habitation whole- 
some. 

The exposure of bed clothing to the sun and air is 
rarely done in many households, blankets and mattresses 
are used for weeks and months at a time without a ray 

188 



DISINFECTION 189 

of sunlight touching them; and when rugs, draperies, 
upholstered furniture, cushions, etc., are added to the 
bedding, the wonder is, not that epidemics prevail, but 
that they ever cease. 

Sunlight has a sterilizing effect on the bacteria con- 
tained in drinking-water and sewage. The practical 
use of sunlight must necessarily be mostly in the pre- 
vention of disease, as it is not available at all times nor 
in all places; it might, however, be used much more in 
disinfecting furniture after infectious diseases, especially 
in small towns or the country, where it is feasible to ex- 
pose the furnishings of an entire house to the rays of 
the sun. For generations it has been a country custom 
to expose all utensils used for milk to the rays of the 
sun. The originators of the practice were doubtless 
ignorant of the principle involved, but their observa- 
tion taught them the advantages to be derived. 

Heat. Disinfection by means of dry or moist heat 
is often employed. Dry heat is less effective than moist 
heat, besides being destructive to many fabrics. Moist 
heat in the form of steam under pressure or boiling 
water may be used much more effectively and practically 
than dry heat. The first known practical application of 
steam for disinfection was that made by Dr. A. N. Bell of 
the United States Navy, upon two ships infected with yel- 
low fever during the Mexican War in 1848, but during the 
past twenty years a large number of steam sterilizers, 
both portable and stationary, have been devised for the 
disinfection of all kinds of water, clothing, bedding, 
carpets, surgical instruments, utensils, suture material 
and dressings, and the mails. Many cities and towns 
are provided with sterilizers for public use, while all 



190 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

hospitals arc equipped with several for use in the dif- 
ferent departments. 1 

Boiling Water. Many articles such as surgical instru- 
ments, dishes, and washable clothing, except woolens, 
may be easily disinfected by boiling for half an hour. 

Cold is an antiseptic but not a disinfectant, the dif- 
ference being that an antiseptic limits or retards the 
growth of bacteria but does not always kill them, while 
a disinfectant destroys them completely. 

The typhoid bacillus, it is said, will survive 100 days 
of freezing, and cholera germs also will withstand 
several days of freezing, while an instance is recorded of 
diphtheria bacilli being frozen for four months, with the 
survival of a few. 

Chemical Disinfectants. The list of chemical disin- 
fectants is too extensive to be given in full here, and no 
attempt will be made to describe any but those in 
common use in households and hospitals. 

Formulae and directions for their use are found in 
all standard text-books on nursing, and need not there- 
fore be repeated here. 

Chloride of lime is a common household disinfectant 
which is used in solid form for disinfecting privy vaults 
and cesspools, or in solution for drains, cellars, and wood- 
work, and for disinfecting urine and feces. A very 
weak solution is sometimes used for the disinfection of 
clothing, which it also bleaches, but its action is de- 
structive to all fabrics. The value of chloride of lime 
as a disinfectant is disputed. 

1 TEACHER'S NOTE. Pupils should be taken to the sterilizing 
rooms, and the mechanism and purpose of sterilizers of all kinds 
should be carefully explained to them. 



DISINFECTION 191 

Lime is one of the oldest disinfectants known ; its use 
for sanitary purposes was obligatory with the Children 
of Israel during their wanderings. Mixed with water to 
the consistency of cream, it is an excellent disinfectant 
for excreta and privy vaults. By the addition of more 
water it is commonly known as whitewash and is the 
best practical disinfectant for cellars or rough walls of 
any kind in houses, barracks, stables, poultry houses, 
and other outbuildings. 

It is said that Lister's first observation upon cleanli- 
ness as a factor in surgery was, that after each white- 
washing of the hospital wards, the number of cases 
of erysipelas and suppuration diminished for a short 
time. 

Sulphur is another disinfectant which has been used 
nearly or quite as long as lime, although of late years it 
has been demonstrated that sulphur is of little value as 
a disinfectant. 

Sulphur dioxide is produced by burning the sulphur, 
the process for disinfection being commonly known as 
sulphur fumigation. The best sanitary authorities 
believe however that sulphur fumigation without the 
addition of moisture is worthless, while with moisture 
its value is very limited. Its chief value is in destroying 
mosquitoes and bedbugs. In old buildings infested 
with bedbugs, repeated fumigations with sulphur at 
short intervals will destroy them. 

The fumes of sulphur tarnish all metals and discolor 
most fabrics, also leaving a disagreeable odor, which per- 
sists for many days. 

Permanganate of potassium is a disinfectant quite 
extensively used for the hands in surgical work, but it 



192 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

is not practical for the disinfection of excreta, and it 
stains all fabrics permanently. 

Sulphate of copper is an effective germicide, but too 
expensive for practical purposes. 

Bichloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate) is prob- 
ably the most important chemical disinfectant known, 
but Harrington says, "it enjoys a reputation for practi- 
cal efficiency that is not wholly deserved." Its especial 
value is in surgical work for disinfecting the skin, liga- 
tures, and utensils. It corrodes metals and therefore 
cannot be used upon surgical instruments. 

Experiments have demonstrated that the failures of 
disinfection by bichloride of mercury have been largely 
due to haste. Walker states that "Corrosive sublimate 
in as weak solution as 1 : 5000 is ineffective against the 
common pathogenic bacteria including pus organisms 
when they are moist excepting after prolonged contact. . . . 
The mere dipping of hands (or utensils) for a few seconds 
into solutions of this strength (1 : 1000) can serve no use- 
ful purpose, but, on the contrary, can lead to much 
harm by inducing a false sense of security." 

The mineral acids are disinfectants against all bacteria, 
but corrode all metals and destroy fabrics. 

Hydrochloric acid, which is the acid contained in the 
gastric juice, has been found effective in destroying both 
the cholera and typhoid fever bacilli. 

Sulphuric acid also is effective with cholera and 
typhoid fever germs, but neither is of any value for 
disinfecting in cases of tuberculosis or diphtheria; neither 
acid therefore is practical for general use. 

Carbolic acid (phenol), one of the best-known and 
commonly used disinfectants, is a substance obtained 



DISINFECTION 193 

from coal tar. According to some of the best authori- 
ties the crude acid is a better disinfectant than the 
more refined grades, because it contains a higher per- 
centage of the cresols. Authorities differ greatly in 
their estimate of the value of carbolic acid as a disin- 
fectant, but it is conceded to have some qualities pref- 
erable to corrosive sublimate; it does not corrode 
metals, and even in a weak solution it kills many patho- 
genic bacteria. 

It is probably more effective in destroying the bacilli 
of tuberculosis than for the organisms of typhoid fever or 
diphtheria. Its germicidal power is said to be greatly 
increased by heat. Heider records that "a 5 per cent 
solution at ordinary room temperature was not effec- 
tive against anthrax spores in 36 days, while at 55 C. 
(131 F.) it was successful in 2 hours and at 75 C. 
(167 F.) in 3 minutes." 

The cresols are substances contained in carbolic acid, 
and of recent years have been extensively used in vari- 
ous preparations, the most common being creolin, cre- 
nosol, and lysol, all of which are used satisfactorily in 
surgical work. 

Alcohol is much used as a disinfectant in surgical 
work, and as a preservative of organic substances. 

Soaps of all kinds are disinfectant and antiseptic. 
It has been demonstrated that a 10 per cent solution of 
good soap would destroy the bacilli of typhoid fever, 
a stronger solution being necessary for cholera bacilli, 
while for the pus cocci (germs) it was entirely ineffective 
with a 20 per cent solution. For practical purposes, 
however, soap could not be the sole disinfectant used 
upon the bed and body linen of typhoid fever or cholera 



194 , HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

patients, as the ordinary procedure in hospital laundries 
would not insure certain results, and again such linen 
must be wet with some disinfectant immediately upon 
its removal from the bed, not only as a protection to 
nurses and others who must necessarily handle it, but 
to prevent any pathogenic bacteria from becoming dried 
and blown about. 

The tincture of green soap is used almost exclusively 
in all hospitals for sterilizing the hands or the field of 
operation, as it is conceded to be the best soap known 
for the purpose. 

The value of soap in the process of room or house- 
hold disinfection is not wholly realized. 

In the disinfection of woodwork and furniture, soap 
may be used where corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid, 
and many other disinfectants would be destructive to 
the fabric or finish. One factor 'in the use of soap 
which nurses and housekeepers recognize, is that it dis- 
solves and removes the accumulated dirt upon the sur- 
faces of objects, an office which corrosive sublimate and 
other disinfectants do not perform. 

The furniture contained in living and bed rooms by 
constant handling and the accumulation of dust and 
soot becomes very dirty in a short time. By the use of a 
strong, warm soapsuds (20 per cent), and the addition 
of an ounce of petroleum to each gallon, the finest 
mahogany or rosewood surfaces may be washed with no 
injury to the polish, and an astonishing amount of dirt 
be removed, which would appear to be a much more 
effective disinfection than simply wiping the surfaces 
with a cloth, damp with a weak solution of some disin- 
fectant. 



DISINFECTION 195 

The addition of an ounce of washing soda to each 
gallon of hot soapsuds used upon floors after an in- 
fectious illness or in the case of very dirty wooden 
floors will also remove as well as disinfect the filth, 
which is the desired end in view. 

The very noticeable escape from infection which the 
hospital scrub-maids seem to enjoy, would certainly 
tend to confirm the claims of soap as a disinfectant. 

Many medicated soaps upon the market claim great 
disinfectant powers, but the best authorities do not 
find them of any greater value as disinfectants than the 
ordinary soaps. 

Abbott gives a formula for a Carbol-soap which is 
easily made and used and of great value for the disin- 
fection of bed and body linen. 
" Dissolve 3 parts green soap in 

100 parts of warm water, add 
5 parts commercial carbolic acid, stirring 
slowly. 

"This forms a permanent solution and has about the 
same disinfectant value as the pure carbolic acid." 

Formaldehyde is a gas which dissolved in water gives 
a solution of about 40 per cent formaldehyde, called 
formalin. 

Formalin is the form most commonly used for disin- 
fecting purposes. 

Formaldehyde is considered the most valuable known 
disinfectant for room disinfection following all infectious 
diseases ; it is also a deodorizer ; it does not tarnish metals 
nor discolor fabrics; the gas is not poisonous, but is 
extremely irritating. 

In fumigating with formaldehyde all cracks and 



196 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

crevices must be closed as in sulphur fumigation. There 
are several especially designed lamps and generators in 
use, the principle of all being to liberate the gas by heat. 

The simplest method is a vessel into which formalin 
and permanganate of potassium are put, the mixture 
causing the liberation of an immense volume of gas. 

For each 1000 cubic feet of space at 60 F. use 

Formaldehyde 40 per cent 16 ounces, 

Potassium permanganate 6f ounces. 

The vessel should allow not less than 12 quarts for 
this amount. This process has the advantage of being 
easily multiplied for large spaces, which is not the case 
with single lamps or generators. 

The formaldehyde should not be added until the 
last moment before leaving and sealing the room. 
When it is impossible to leave a room open for twenty- 
four hours after fumigation with formaldehyde, the 
odor may be quickly removed by placing a shallow 
vessel (platter) filled with aqua ammonia in the room. 

Disijifection of Infective Materials. 

Excreta : Carbolic acid 5 per cent ; 
or Chloride of lime 2 per cent; 
or Milk of lime (lime and water, consistency 

of cream) ; 

or Bichloride of mercury 1 ounce, 
Hydrochloric acid 10 ounces, 
Water 1 gallon. 

In all cases the disinfecting solution should 
equal the excreta in bulk, and the mixture closely 
covered be allowed to stand some time before 
emptying. 



DISINFECTION 197 

All vessels used for stools, sputum, and vomit 
should be washed in carbolic acid 5 per cent, 
followed by scrubbing in hot soapsuds and by 
boiling in soda solution 3 per cent. 
Clothing. Bed and body linen, towels, napkins, 
wash curtains, bureau and stand covers ; soak in 
cold Carbol-soap solution (p. 195) for two hours, 
rinse in clear cold water, and put into the laun- 
dry. 

Woolen garments, unless badly infected, may 
be fumigated with formaldehyde, followed by 
exposure to sunlight. Otherwise heavy garments, 
carpets, rugs, furs, woolen curtains, together with 
children's playthings and books, should be put 
into compact bundles wrapped in cloths wet in 
carbolic acid 5 per cent or bichloride of mercury 
1 : 1000, and burned in a furnace. 
Utensils. Dishes and silver may be boiled for 20 
minutes in soda solution 5 per cent, also wash- 
basins and other toilet dishes, besides all surgical 
instruments, nail files, and manicure scissors. 

Toothbrushes should not be used during in- 
fectious illness, but the mouth and teeth cleaned 
with small mouth sponges and toothpicks wrapped 
with absorbent cotton, both to be burned imme- 
diately. 
Furniture. 1. Fumigation with formaldehyde. 

2. Wipe with cloth wet in carbolic acid 5 per 
cent followed by washing with a 20 per cent 
warm soapsuds containing 1 ounce of petroleum 
to each gallon. 

3. Expose to sunlight for several days in sue- 



198 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

cession if possible, turning all sides to the sun; 
turn upside down as well. 

Walls. 1. If papered, wet thoroughly with bi- 
chloride of mercury solution, 1 : 1000, remove 
paper, being very careful to keep the paper wet. 
2. Fumigate the room and follow by opening 
all windows and doors for twenty-four hours. 
Floors. 1. Wet with bichloride of mercury so- 
lution 1 : 1000 before fumigation. 

2. After fumigation, scrub with 20 per cent hot 
soapsuds to which has been added 1 ounce of 
washing soda to each gallon. This first cleaning 
should be done with a broom and mop that the 
water may be as near boiling as is possible. 
Woodwork. 1. Wet with bichloride of mercury 
1 : 1000 before fumigation. 

2. After fumigation, wash as directed for 
furniture. 

In several cities laws have been enacted requiring 
public libraries and conveyances to be disinfected, and 
in some cities barber shops are under inspection regard- 
ing their daily care. 

TEACHER'S NOTE. For further directions for disinfecting 
sick room, patient, and nurse see Primary Nursing Technique, 
Mclsaac, Chapter XII. 



CHAPTER XII 

QUARANTINE 

DR. WALTER WYMAN of the United States Marine 
Hospital Service defines quarantine as "the adoption of 
restrictive measures to prevent the introduction of 
diseases from one country or locality into another." 

The term is broadly used, and by usage includes port, 
land, interstate, municipal, railroad, house, and room 
quarantine. 

The necessity for restrictions in certain diseases has 
been recognized from the earliest times, leprosy probably 
being the first disease for which isolation in any sense 
was practiced. 

The first maritime or port quarantine was established 
in 1403 in Venice, and all ships and persons coming from 
Egypt or other countries, suffering from the plague, were 
detained for forty days in quarantine; this practice 
gradually extended until it was realized that such whole- 
sale arbitrary measures were unreasonable and imposed 
so much injury upon commerce that more rational 
restrictions were gradually made. 

The United States government maintains quarantine 
stations at twenty-eight seaports. " Maritime quaran- 
tine consists of the detention of the infected ship, the 
isolation of the sick in a special hospital at the quaran- 
tine station, the disinfection of the ship and its cargo 

199 



200 HYGIENE FOR NURSES 

as well as the clothing and bedding of the well, the de- 
tention of all well persons in barracks until after the 
period of incubation of the particular disease has elapsed 
and all danger of dissemination has been eliminated. 
The period of detention, the mode of disinfection, as well 
as all the other prophylactic measures employed, will 
depend entirely upon the character of the disease, its 
period of incubation, and the nature of the ship's cargo. 
The disinfecting agents commonly employed are super- 
heated steam and formaldehyde." (Bergey.) 

Inland quarantine is used in time of epidemics in cer- 
tain localities, as in the case of yellow fever in the South- 
ern states. When an epidemic extends over a number 
of states the quarantine becomes interstate and is under 
the jurisdiction of the United States Treasury depart- 
ment, which obviates the confusion which might arise 
from conflicting laws in the various states. 

House quarantine is employed against smallpox, 
scarlet fever, diphtheria, cholera, typhoid and typhus 
fevers, yellow fever, and leprosy. 

The patient should be isolated from the rest of the 
family, and other persons residing in the house should 
be forbidden attending school or business, or entering 
any public assembly or conveyance. 

None but those in charge of the patient should be 
allowed to enter the house, and the board of health is 
required to placard the house, the placard to remain 
until the patient has recovered or died and the house 
has been disinfected. 

The following table reproduced from the proceedings 
of the Michigan state board of health is convincing proof 
of the value of isolation and disinfection : 



QUARANTINE 



201 



* SCARLEl 

Isolation am 
neglected in 366 
outbreaks, av'ge 

Cases. Deaths. 


- FEVHR. 
\ disinfection 

enforced, in 361 
outbreaks, av'ge 

Cases. Deaths. 


DlPHT 

Isolation an 
neglected in 317 
outbreaks, av'ge 
Cases. Deaths. 


HERIA. 

d disinfection 
enforced in 252 
outbreaks, av'ge 
Cases. | Deaths. 


i 






































, 




































































































































































































jp 




1. 


















P 












m 




&t 






n 






att 





Each state has a right to quarantine, but the Federal 
government may assume control when the quarantine 
interferes with interstate commerce. 

The board of health of each state not only enacts 
regulations for quarantine in case of infectious diseases, 
but for controlling all conditions which may be detri- 
mental to the public health, such as the disposal of gar- 
bage, sewage, the regulation of slaughterhouses, burial 
of the dead, and pollution of water by refuse from manu- 
facturing. 1 

The disposal of the dead is accomplished by burial or 
cremation, the laws varying little in the various states. 

1 TEACHER'S NOTE. Copies of the laws and regulations of 
the state and city boards of health should be posted in the nurses' 
classrooms. 



INDEX 



Acids, boric, as food preservative, 
15, 35, 46. 

carbolic, as disinfectant, 192, 
196; in soap, 195, 197. 

citric, as element of food, 4. 

lactic, 13, 19. 

malic, as element of food, 4. 

mineral, disinfection by, 192. 

organic, in food, 4. 

oxalic, as element of food, 4. 

salicylic, as food preservative, 36. 

tartaric, as element of food, 4. 
Actinomycosis, cattle disease, 11. 
Action of wind, 65. 
Adulteration of food, 27, 30. 

of butter, 45. 

of cheese, 46. 

of chocolate, 43. 

of cocoa, 43. 

of coffee, 44. 

of meat preparations, 50. 

of milk, 47. 

of tea, 44. 
Age, as factor in health and disease, 

103. 

Ague, brass founder's, 106, 165. 
Air, 53. 

ammonia in, 57. 

amount necessary for ventila- 
tion, 64. 

aqueous vapor in, 56. 

argon in, 55. 

bacteria in, 57. 

carbon dioxide in, 56. 

carbon monoxide in, 58. 

composition of, 54. 

compressed, 53, 167. 

conveyance of infection by, 57. 

dust in, 57, 60. 

filtration of, 68. 

hydrogen in, 55. 

nitrogen in, 55. 

organic matter in, 57. 

oxygen in, 54. 



ozone in, 55. 

sewer, 58. 

soil, 57. 

sources of impurities, 59, 60, 61. 

vitiated, effects of, 60. 
Alcohol, as disinfectant, 193. 

as food, 23. 

excessive use of, in tropics, 63. 
Alum, use in purification of water, 

82. 
Ammonia, in air, 57. 

effects of fumes upon health, 

163. 
Ansemia, in working women, 174. 

statistics of, 104. 
Animal foods, 9. 

Anthrax, transmission of, 109, 166. 
Antitoxins, use of, 103. 
Aqueous vapor, in air, 56. 
Argon, in air, 55. 
Arsenic, in food, 38. 

in dust, 165. 

use of, in industries, 165. 
Artesian wells, 77. 
Asiatic cholera, transmission of, 

108. 
Attitude, restricted, 129, 167. 

Bacteria, as cause of meat and fish 
poisoning, 12. 

in air, 57. 

in filters, 84, 87. 

in milk, 13. 

in water, 79, 81, 84. 
Baking powders, 19, 41. 
Ball-trap, 92. 
Bathrooms, 118. 
Baths, 112. 
Bathtubs, 92. 

Bedbugs, as carriers of disease, 
108. 

in the household, 123. 
Bed linen, cleanliness of, 120. 

disinfection of, 197. 



203 



204 



INDEX 



Bed linen, soiled, 121. 

Bedrooms, 118. 

Beer, percentage of alcohol in, 
23. 

Bell traps, 92. 

Berries, for food, 22. 

Beverages, 22. 

Bichloride of mercury, as disinfec- 
tant, 192, 196. 

Boiling water, disinfection by, 190. 

Books, disinfection of, 197. 

Brandy, percentage of alcohol in, 
23. 

Bread, 18. 

Butter, 15, 45. 

Caisson disease, 53, 167. 
Cameron's septic tank, 96. 
Canned foods, 25, 41. 
Canning, preservation of food by, 

25. 

Carbohydrates, 4, 6. 
Carbolic acid, as disinfectant, 192, 

196. 

soap, 195, 197. 
Carbon dioxide, in air, 56. 
Carbon disulphide, fumes of, 164. 
Carbon monoxide, poisoning by, 

58, 164. 
Cats, 124. 
Ceilings, 119. 
Cereals, 16, 42. 
Cesspools, 93. 
Chalk, dust of, 131. 

in water, 82. 

Chamberland-Pasteur filter, 87. 
Cheese, 15. 

poisoning, 15. 

Chicory, as adulterant of coffee, 45. 
Children, employment of, 169. 

school, 125. 
Chloride of lime, as disinfectant, 

190, 196. 

use in the purification of water, 83. 
Chloride of sodium, 5. 
Chlorine, effects of fumes upon 

health, 163. 
Cholera, Asiatic, transmission of, 

79, 108. 

Cleanliness, 2, 112. 
Climate, 62. 
Closets, 118. 



Clothing, 116. 

disinfection of, 197. 
Cold, antiseptic action of, 190. 

preservation of food by, 26. 
Coloring matter in food, 37. 
Combustion, of carbohydrates in 
the body, 6. 

of fats in the body, 6. 

of proteids in the body, 6. 
Condiments, 24. 

Copper, as addition to food, 39. 
Cotton, dust of, 166. 
Cream, 15, 47. 

of tartar, 19. 
Cremation, 201. 
Creolin, as disinfectant, 193. 
Cresols, 193. 

Crowding, as cause of disease, 106. 
Cysticercus bo vis, 11. 

Dampness, exposure to, 167. 

of buildings, 117. 

of soil, 75. 

Dead, disposal of, 201. 
Destructors, of garbage, 99. 
Diet, as aid to health, 115. 

necessity of mixed, 8. 
Diphtheria, transmission of, 108. 
Disease, causes of, 101. 

common to school children, 132. 

dissemination of, 107. 

resistance to, 102. 
Disinfectants, 122, 188. 

chemical, 190. 
Disinfection, 101, 158, 188. 

of clothing, 197. 

of excreta, 196. 

of floors, 198. 

of furniture, 197. 

of utensils, 197. 

of woodwork, 198. 
Drainage, 76. 
Drying food, 25. 
Dust, in air, 57, 60. 

effects of, upon health, 162. 

infective, 166. 

irritating, 166. 

poisonous, 165. 

Electric lighting, 73. 
Emplovment of women and chil- 
dren, 169. 



INDEX 



205 



Epidemics, 109. 
Excreta, disinfection of, 196. 
Excretions, in health, 116. 
Exercise, 113. 

Factories, bad air in, 60. 

ventilation of, 60. 
Farinaceous foods, 21. 
Fats, animal, 4. 

vegetable, 4. 
Filters, 83, 85. 
Filtration, of air, 68. 

of sewage, 95. 

purification of water by, 83. 
Fireplaces, 70. 
Fish, as food, 15. 

poisoning by, 16. 
Flies, as carriers of disease germs, 

108, 123. 

Floors, disinfection of, 198. 
Flour, 17, 43. 

Fluorids, as food preservatives, 36. 
Food, adulteration, 27. 

amount necessary, 6. 

animal, 9. 

canned, 25, 41. 

cereal, 16, 42. 

chemical preservation of, 26, 35. 

composition of, 3. 

digestibility of, 6. 

farinaceous, 21. 

nutritive value of, 3. 

potential energy of, 5. 

preservation of, 24, 35. 

varieties, 9. 

vegetable, 20. 

Forces, reserve, of the body, 5. 
Formaldehyde, as disinfectant, 159, 

195. 

Formalin, as disinfectant, 195. 
Fruits, 21. 

decaying, 2, 21. 

Fur, as means of transmitting dis- 
ease, 109, 166. 
Furnaces, 69, 71. 
Furniture, 119. 

disinfection of, 197. 

Garbage, 97. 

disposal of, 98. 

ordinances regarding, 97. 
Garget, 14. 



Gas, as illuminant, 73. 

leaking of, 58. 

poisoning by, 58. 
Goitre, connection of water with, 

79. 
Ground water, 75. 

Habitations, 112, 125. 
Hardness of water, 82. 
Heat, disinfection by, 189. 

exposure to, 166. 
Heating, 69. 

schools, 127. 

Heredity, as factor in disease, 106. 
Horse meat, amount eaten, 9. 
House, position of, 117. 
Household hygiene, 117. 
Humidity, 56. 
Hydrochloric acid, as deodorant, 93. 

as disinfectant, 192, 196. 

fumes of, 164. 
Hydrogen, in air, 55. 

Ice, 88. 

boxes, 2, 122. 
cream poisoning, 14. 
transmission of typhoid through, 

88. 
Illuminating gas, 73. 

poisoning by, 58. 
Immunity, 103. 
Infantile diarrhrea, transmission of, 

by milk, 14, 108. 
Infection, 101. 

conveyance of, 108. 
Inlets, for air, 66. 
Insects, relation to disease, 108. 

protection from, 123. 
Inspection, of meat, 11. 

medical, of schools, 134. 
Interstate quarantine, 199. 
Iron, in water, 76. 

purification of water with, 83. 
Irrigation, sewage, 95. 
Isolation, 153, 154. 

duration of, in chicken pox, 140. 
in diphtheria, 140, 201. 
in German measles, 140. 
in measles, 140. 
in mumps, 140. 
in scarlet fever, 139, 201. 
in tonsilitis, 140. 



206 



INDEX 



Kitchens, 118. 
refuse, 98, 100. 

Lamps, 73. 

Lead, action of water on, 79. 

poisoning, 105, 165, 176. 
Leaven, for bread, etc., 19. 
Legumes, 16, 17. 
Light, as disinfectant, 188. 

effect upon health, 73. 

in factories, 163. 

in schools, 126. 
Lime, as disinfectant, 191. 

chloride of, use of, 190, 196. 
Luncheons, school, 131. 
Lysol, as disinfectant, 193. 

Malaria, transmission of, 108. 
Meat, canned, 26. 

digestibility of, 10. 

diseased, 10. 

dried, 25. 

effects of cooking upon, 10. 

inspection, 11. 

nutritive value of, 9. 

parasites in, 12. 

putrefaction of, 12. 

raw, 10. 

red and white, 10. 

salted, 26. 

smoked, 25. 

transmission of disease by, 12. 

tuberculous, 11. 
Meat poisoning, 12. 
Medical inspection of schools, 134. 
Mercury, bichloride, as disinfec- 
tant, 192, 196. 

fumes of, 164. 
Milk, 13. 

adulteration of, 47. 

bacteria in, 13. 

dirty, 13. 

poisoning by, 14. 

preservation of, 15. 

transmission of disease by, 14. 
Mineral acids, as disinfectants, 192. 

elements in food, 4, 22. 
Mineral waters, 22. 
Mosquitoes, as carriers of disease 

germs, 108, 123. 

Naphtha, fumes of, 164. 



Nitrogen, absorption by plants, 55. 

in air, 55. 

Nitrous fumes, 164. 
Nuts, 21. 

Occupation, diseases of, 105. 

effects upon health, 105, 163. 

hygiene of, 162. 
Oil, as food, 4. 
Organic acids, in food, 4. 

impurities in water, 79. 
Outlets, for air, 66. 
Oysters, transmission of typhoid 

fever by, 108. 
Ozone, in air, 55. 

use in purification of water, 83. 

Parasites, in meat, 12. 
Pasteur filter, 87. 

Permanganate of potassium, as dis- 
infectant, 83, 191. 
Personal hygiene, 110. 
Phenol, 192. 

Phosphorus, fumes of, 164. 
Plumbing, house, 90. 

school, 128. 

Potential energy of food, 5. 
Preservation of food, 24, 35. 
Proteids, amount necessary, 6. 

classification of, 4, 16. 
Purification of water, 81. 

Quarantine, 199. 
house, 200. 
inland, 200. 
interstate, 199. 
port, 199. 

Race, as factor in disease, 104. 
Radiation, 69. 
Rats, 123. 
Recreation, 113. 
Relative humidity, 56. 
Respiratory diseases, increase of, in 

winter, 63. 
Rest, 113. 

Room disinfection, 158, 195, 197. 
Running traps, 91. 

Salicylic acid, as food preservative, 

36. 
Salt, 5. 



INDEX 



207 



Sand filtration of water, 83. 
Schools, 125. 

blackboards, 126. 

cloakrooms, 127. 

defects of, 130. 

desks, 129. 

diseases common to school chil- 
dren, 132. 

drinking water, 130. 

heating, 127. 

lighting, 126. 

luncheons, 131. 

medical inspection of, 134. 

seats, 129. 

sewage, 128. 

site, 125. 

structure, 125. 

ventilation, 127. 

wash-rooms, 128. 

water-closets, 128. 
Season, as factor in disease, 107. 
Self-purification of water, 81. 
Sewage, 89. 

chemical treatment of, 94. 

composition of, 89. 

disposal of, 93, 95. 

filtration of, 95. 

removal of, 89. 
Sewer air, 90. 
Sex, as factor in disease, 104, 

169. 
Sinks, kitchen, 93. 

slop, 93. 

Sleep, amount required, 114. 
Smallpox, transmission of, 109. 
Smoking, preservation of food by, 

25. 
Soap, carbolic, 195. 

disinfectant properties of, 193. 
Soda, bicarbonate, 19. 

as disinfectant, 195, 197. 
Soil, 75. 

air, 75. 

bacteria in, 76. 

connection with disease, 75. 

pipes, 90. 

pollution of, 75, 76. 

water, 75. 
Spices, 24. 
Springs, 77. 

Sputum, disinfection of, 197. 
Stairs, 119. 



Steam, disinfection by, 189. 

heating, 70. 
Stoves, 70. 
Sugar, 22. 

substitutes for, 49. 
Sulphur, as disinfectant, 191. 

dioxide, effects of fumes upon 

health, 164. 

Sulphuric acid, as disinfectant, 192. 
Sunlight, as factor in health, 73. 

as disinfectant, 189. 
Surface water, 77. 
Susceptibility to disease, 102. 



Temperature, required, 69. 
Tetanus, transmission of, 108. 
Towels, personal, 121, 128. 

dish, 122. 

Traps, for plumbing, 91. 
Tuberculosis, transmission of, 108. 
Typhoid fever, transmission of, 79, 
88, 108. 

Urine, disinfection of, 196. 

in sewage, 89. 
Utensils, disinfection of, 197. 

Vaccination, 103, 137. 
Vegetable foods, 16, 20. 

decaying, 2. 

Vegetation, effects upon air, 55. 
Ventilation, 2, 63. 

mechanical, 67. 

natural, 65. 

of schools, 127. 

partial, 67. 

plenum system, 67. 

vacuum system, 67. 
Vermin, protection from, 123. 

Wall paper, 120. 
Walls, disinfection pf, 198. 
Wash basins, 92. 
Waste pipes, 91. 
Water, 76. 

action on lead, 79. 

aeration, 86. 

amount necessary, 5, 6, 81. 

appearance of, 81. 

bacteria in, 79, 81, 84. 

boiling, as disinfectant, 190. 



208 



INDEX 



Water, connection with disease, 79. 
examination of, 84. 
filtration of, 83. 
ground, 75. 
impurities of, 78. 
minerals in, 76, 79. 
purity of, 2, 76. 
purification of, 81. 
self-purification, 81. 
surface, 77. 
typhoid infection of, 79. 



Water-closets, 92. 

Wells, 77. 

Whisky, as food, 23. 

Wind, action of, in ventilation, 

65. 

Women, employment of, 169. 
Woodwork, 119. 
disinfection of, 198. 

Yellow fever, transmission of, 79, 
88. 



Printed in the United States of America. 







University of Toronto 






Library 






J- 






DO NOT xf 


3 




REMOVE / 


H 

CO 

0) 

f 




THE H 
CARD 1 


H fc 
O 




FROM ^\ 


Ctf 
CO <D 




THIS \ 


<D 




^s. 


O tlD 
ctf t>* 

td rr} 

M 
O 


| 


POCKET \ 








Acme Library Card Pocket 


* 




LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 





