X 715 
L96 
opy 1 



iiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



KLEVERi> KINKS 

IN 





Compliments of 

cTVflSSOURI DAIRY CO. 

KANSAS CITY, MO. 



KLEVER KINKS IN 
KOOKERY 



Compiled bv^ 
ISABEL M. LUTE 




Compliments gf cTWISSOURI DAIRY 
COMPANY - Kansas City, Missouri 



T)(n\ 



5 



COPYRIGHT 1916 BY 
ISABEL M. LUTE 



/ 



UN 16 1916 

(0)Cl.A435698 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



Table of Weights and Measures 



4 teaspoonfuls of a liquid equal 1 tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonfulsiof a liquid equals Ms gill or M: cup. 
Vz cup equals 1 gill. 

2 gills equal 1 cup. 

2 cups equal 1 pint. 

2 pints (4 cups) equal 1 quart. 

4 cups of flour equal 1 pound or 1 quart. 

2 cups of butter, solid, equal 1 pound. 
Vz cup of butter, solid, equals %, pound, 4 ounces. 

2 cups of granulated sugar equal 1 pound. 
2y2 cups of powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 

1 pint of milk or water equals 1 pound. 

1 pint of chopped meat equals 1 pound, 
10 eggs, shelled, equal 1 pound. 

8 eggs with shells equal 1 pound. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter equal 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of coffee equal 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoonful of liquid equals V2 ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter equal 2 ounces or V4. cup. 

Always sift flour once before measuring. 

All measurements are level unless otherwise stated in 
rftcipe. 



The basis of a child's diet should be milk — at least 
a quart a day. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



cAppetizers 

"To mould mankind at will 
And shape their acts, 
First dine them well and 
They will become as wax." 



CRAB WITH ASPARAGUS 

Fill glasses with crab meat, a few tips of asparagus, 
chopped fine. Pour mayonnaise over and garnish with tips 
of asparagus and pieces of pimento. Serve in glasses in 
bowls of ice. 

SARDINE CANAPE 

Spread circular pieces of toasted bread with sardines 
rubbed to a paste with a small quantity of creamed butter 
and seasoned with Worcestershire sauce, and a few grains 
of cayenne pepper. Place in center a deviled olive cut in 
fourths lengthwise. 

LOBSTER COCKTAIL 

2 tablespoons tomato catsup, 1 tablespoon horse radish, 

1 tablespoon chopped olives, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 
teaspoon salt, and a few grains of cayenne or a little 
tabasco. Mix thoroughly and pour over the meat of a 
2-lb. lobster, which has been cut in small pieces. Stand 1 
hour. Serve cold in cocktail glasses, and just before serv- 
ing sprinkle with powdered lobster coral. Canned lobster 
may be used if fresh cannot be procured. 

SPRING MAID COCKTAIL 

Ingredients must be shredded: V2 artichoke bottom, 

2 slices breast of chicken, V2 tail of lobster, 2 sweet 
pickles, little tunny fish sauce, 2 tablespoons mayonnaise, 
1 teaspoon L. & P. sauce, 1 teaspoon chutney. This will 
serve 4 persons. 

SARDINE COCKTAIL 

1 small can sardines, broken in small pieces; add % 
cup tomato catsup, 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce, ^4 
teaspoon tabasco sauce, % cup celery cut in very fine 
pieces, 6 teaspoons lemon juice, salt, chill thoroughly be- 
fore serving. 



Better 7nilk tnakes better babies. Better babes 
?nake better men and zvomen. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



Soup 



"Wiirt please you taste of what is here?" 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP 

V2 lb. mushrooms, 4 cups white stock or can of chicken 
bouillon (clear), 1 slice of onion, % cup flour, ^/4 cup but- 
ter, 1 cup cream, salt, pepper. Chop mushrooms, add to 
stock with onion, cook V2 hour and rub through sieve, re- 
heat, blend with butter and flour cooked together, add 
cream and season. May be served with a bit of whipped 
cream. 

DELICATE TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes, 1 qt. water, 1 pint milk, 1 small onion, 
1 good tablespoon chopped parsley, 8 whole cloves, table- 
spoon brown sugar, as much baking soda as can be held 
on a 10-cent piece, butter size of walnut, little red pepper, 
if desired. Put tomatoes in kettle with water, add all in- 
gredients but soda, let boil about 20 minutes, strain, add 
soda when ingredients come to a boil. Add IV^ table- 
spoons of flour to pint of milk, boil milk and add to above. 

CORN SOUP. 

1 tablespoon of flour, 2 tablespoons of butter, 1 pint of 
milk. Cream flour and butter, season to taste can of corn 
or Kornlet, strained through sieve; add milk and let come 
to a boil, or use 6 ears of fresh corn. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP 

Have ready 2 cups of cooked spinach which has been 
stripped from the stalk, washed and cooked tender in a 
double boiler with no water except that which adheres to 



Drink more milk and reduce the meat bill. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



it from rinsing, then chopped fine and put through a 
colander. Thicken a quart of milk with a heaping table- 
spoon of flour, a tablespoon of butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, cook and stir until it thickens, then put it with the 
spinach and serve with or without a teaspoon of whipped 
cream on each portion. 

CREAM OF OYSTER PLANT SOUP 

Cut off leaves and wash two bunches of oyster plant. 
Cook in boiling salted water to cover until soft, drain and 
plunge into cold water to cover, to which has been added 
one tablespoonful of vinegar. Scrape and rub through a 
strainer; there should be one and one-fourth cupfuls. 
Melt four tablespoonf uls of butter, add four tablespoonfuls 
of flour and stir until well blended; then add oyster plant 
puree. Pour on gradually while stirring constantly, one 
cupful of hot water and bring to the boiling point. Scald 
four cupfuls of milk in double boiler and add to mixture. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Drain, and just be- 
fore sending to table add one tablespoonful of butter, bit by 
bit. Serve with croutons. 

POTATO AND ONION SOUP 

Boil three potatoes until tender, drain, press through 
a sieve. Chop three onions, cook in boiling water until 
tender; drain, reserving two cupfuls of the water. Add 
this onion water and the onions to the potatoes. Add one 
quart milk, melt one tablespoonful butter, mix with three 
level tablespoonfuls flour, add to the soup; cook and stir 
until the whole is smooth and creamy. Season with salt 
and white pepper, add a little chopped parsley and serve. 
This is especially good soup for luncheon, or to serve 
with an otherwise light dinner. 



Fresh, pure ffiilk makes babes of brain and brazvn. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



Fish 



"Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea! 
Why, as men do on land; the great ones eat up the little 
ones." 

BAKED HALIBUT 

Take 2 steaks, cut equal parts of celery, onion and 
parsley. Better to cook onion a little first. Take tin bot- 
toms to pan, butter well and then put thick bed of parsley, 
onion and celery mixed, lay steak on. Butter steak well, 
salt and pepper and put on layer of onion, parsley and 
celery very thick, put few drops of lemon juice on top and 
add water to pan and bake until done (about 40 minutes), 
basting often. Thicken gravy with flour and serve with 
tartar sauce. 

TARTAR SAUCE 

Yolks 2 raw eggs, few drops of oil at a time, stirring 
all the time until thick, add a little onion, parsley and sour 
pickle or capers, chopped together, teaspoon lemon juice. 

CODFISH SOUFFLE 

Cook 1 cup of rice in 1 quart milk (double boiler). 
While hot, stir in 1 cup of shredded codfish, 1 tablespoon 
butter, yolks of 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste. When 
cold, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs. Bake 20 
minutes, serve at once. 

SANDABS COOKED IN OILED PAPER 

Wash and salt fish, roll in oiled paper and on the top 
put 2 slices of bacon on each; bake in the oven from 30 
to 40 minutes. When done, remove paper and serve with 
the bacon and chopped parsley. 



Fresh, pure milk should he the basis of a child's 
diet. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



CODFISH BALLS. 

These are better prepared the day before. Boil half 
a pound of fish flakes till tender. Boil and mash an equal 
quantity of potato. Put together with a beaten egg for 
binder. Add pepper — salt, if necessary — and shape into 
balls. Fry. 

FINNAN HADDIE A LA NEWBERG 

Cut up two cupfuls Finnan haddie which has been 
soaked Vz hour in cold water, skin side down. Drain 
and cover with hot milk 5 minutes, drain again and re- 
move all skin and bones. Flake the fish in small pieces. 
Heat one tablespoonful butter in a pan (being careful not 
to brown it) stir in fish and cook until very hot. Have 
ready two tablespoonfuls flour melted in one tablespoonful 
butter, and add 1 cupful of hot sweet cream, stirring as it 
thickens. Add pepper, salt if necessary, and 1 cupful 
canned mushrooms. Remove from fire and set in pan 
of hot water for 10 minutes. Just before serving add the 
well-beaten yolk of 1 egg. If mixture is too thick add a 
little milk. Many people consider the addition of a table- 
spoonful of sherry desirable. Serve on hot toast. 

SHAD ROE, CREOLE STYLE 

Cook shad roe 15 minutes in boiling salted water to 
cover, adding to water V2. tablespoonful vinegar and drain 
a few minutes before any additional cooking, being careful 
not to break skin, and lay on absorbent cloth to dry. Cook 
a tablespoonful of chopped bacon, a tablespoonful, each, of 
chopped green pepper and onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter; add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and cook until brown, 
then add V^. a cup of beef broth and % of a cup of tomato 
pulp pressed through a sieve. When boiling turn mixture 
over the roe in a buttered baking dish. Cover and let 
cook in the oven 15 or 20 minutes. Serve in the dish. 



Happy the mother^ healthy the babe nourished 
"d)7th milk. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



Milk Better than Alcohol to 
Relieve Fatigue 

(From Cooking Club Magazine.) 

The Pasteur institute of Paris has made the declara- 
tion that one of the most powerful stimulants known is 
milk. It has been in use for months now as the one 
stimulant for the French soldiers in the trenches, and its 
effect on them has amply justified the statement made 
by the famous institute in regard to it. 

Milk has been used liberally to stimulate the French 
soldiers before they go into battle and its effects have 
been such that the French government has urged the sale 
of milk, in preference to other soft drinks, behind the 
trenches when the soldiers go off duty for their spells of 
rest and recreation. 

That the qualities of stimulation should be demon- 
strated on the fighting men should commend the bever- 
age to those engaged in the pursuits of peace in those 
parts of the world where Mars does not now rule. While 
alcohol may fire the brain and dull the sensibilities and 
thus impart a false courage, milk, according to the learned 
scientists of the Pasteur institute, performs the work of 
keying up the individual without affecting the keenness of 
his senses nor the coolness of their judgnment. This is 
necessary to the mode of warfare which this war has 
exemplified, but it is no less necessary to the man work- 
ing in the office, in the studio, in the mill, on the farm 
or elsewhere in the battle for a living. 

High courage and clear conception of what they are 
doing is necessary for the best work in all the arts and 
professions, as well as in the handicrafts and in trade. 

This fluid hitherto has been considered synonymous 
with all that is mild and peaceful. Advocates of prepared- 
ness have referred to "those milk and water pacifists." The 
"milk of human kindness" has no suggestion of powei-ful 
stimulation. 

But science has discovered, among its many wonders, 
that the patient cow has put a punch in milk that neces- 
sitates the addition of no product of the still to make itiself 
felt on the human system. It has discovered a new and 
harmless "bracer." 



Give the children more milk, and watch them 
grow. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 10 



cTWeats 



"There's no want of meats, sir; 
Portly and viands are prepared, 
To please all kinds of appetites." 

SAUCE AFFINITIES 

Cream sauce with sweetbreads, orange salad with 
roast chicken, celery sauce with quail, stuffed olives with 
fish balls, horseradish with boiled beef, horseradish with 
fried onions and liver, French dressing with sardines, mint 
sauce with lamb, hard-boiled eggs and parsley with salmon, 
celery and onion dressing with roast duck, currant jelly 
with goose, cucumber catsup with corned beef. 

ROASTING AND BROILING 

Beef (rolled roast, sirloin) — 12 minutes to pound, after 
browning. 

Mutton — 15 minutes to the pound after browning. 

Veal, Lamb — 20 minutes to the pound. 

Pork — 30 minutes to the pound. 

Chickens — 2^/^ to 4 pounds — 1 to iy2 hours. 

Turkey, 10 pounds — 3 hours. 

Ducks — About 1 hour. 

Steak, 11/4 in. thick — 10 to 12 minutes. 

Chops — 15 to 25 minutes. 

Small Fish — About 15 minutes. 

Thick Fish— 20 to 30 minutes. 

Chicken, broiled — 20 to 30 minutes. 



i quart of milk a day will keep the doctor azcay. 



11 , KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



VEAL PIE 

3 cups cold boiled or roast veal or chicken, 1 can each 
peas and mushrooms cut up. Use enough juice to mix 
well, boil up and thicken a little with flour. Salt to taste. 
Put in baking pan and cover with a rich biscuit dough. 
Bake. 

STEAK "SMOTHERED IN ONIONS" 

Cut medium sized onions into quarters, boil until they 
begin to be somewhat tender (the length of time depends 
on the onions) drain in colander and fry in butter, cover- 
ing the pan for the first 10 minutes. Stir often enough to 
keep from burning but not enough to prevent browning. 
When steak is ready, serve on hot platter and cover with 
onions. 

STUFFED HAM 

1 eight-pound ham, 2 quarts Brussels sprouts, 1 bunch 
watercress, % cupful chopped chives, 2 bunches shallots, 
Vi teaspoonful pepper, 1 tablespoonful mixed pickle spice, • 
dry bread-crumbs, whole cloves, 1 teaspoonful salt. Parboil 
the ham for thirty minutes and then drain. Chop to- 
gether the vegetables as fine as possible and add a little 
water to make a paste. Season with the salt and pepper. 
Then with a long sharp knife make incisions through the 
ham about an inch and a half apart. Stuff each one with 
the vegetable-mixture, pushing it in with any blunt instru- 
ment that will fit the incision. When the ham is stuffed, 
roll tightly in cheese-cloth, plunge it into boiling water, add 
the pickle spice, and boil gently till tender, from four to five 
hours. Let it cool in the ham-liquor, then remove the 
skin, and dust the fat thickly with the dry crumbs. Stud 
with the whole cloves and brown in a hot oven. When 
sliced the ham will present a marbled appearance. Serve 
hot or cold. 



T'o groiv sturdy sons and fair daughters — a diet 
of pure milk. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 12 



CHICKEN TERRAPIN 

1 chicken which weighs iVz lbs., 4 sweetbreads, or 1 
lb. of veal. Boil as for salad and cut into small pieces. 1 
can of mushrooms, 4 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, 5 
even tablespoonfuls flour, 1 quart of cream, or rich milk. 
Stir the butter and flour together until smooth, add to 
the hot cream and stir until thickened. 1 small grated 
onion, a little nutmeg, black and red pepper and salt to 
taste. Pour in the chicken, mushrooms and sweetbreads 
into the thickened cream. Put into a baking dish, cover 
with fi^ne bread crumbs or rolled cracker and bits of but- 
ter, and bake 20 minutes. 

BAKED HAM AND POTATOES 

ll^ lbs. sliced ham, 3 cups sliced potatoes, 1 cup bread 
crumbs, V2 cup grated cheese. Salt and pepper, milk to 
cover. Have the ham sliced an inch thick, fry slightly on 
both sides, cover with potatoes, add salt and pepper, 
sprinkle cheese and bread crumbs over top, cover with milk 
and bake in moderate oven ll^ hours. 

TAMALE PIE, 

2 lbs. round steak and a little suet cut in pieces, cover 
with boiling water, cook 1 hour. Season with garlic, 2 
small onions, 18 or 20 olives, % pound of raisins, salt and 
chili powder to suit taste. Cook till meat is very tender. 
Thicken the gravy with 2 or 3 tablespoons corn meal. 
Make a crust as follows: 1 quart boiling water, salt, 1 
cup butter, stir in corn meal to make stiff batter or mush. 
Line sides of pan. Pour in stew. Spread mush on top. 
Bake % of an hour. 

SWEETBREAD CUTLETS 

Parboil sweetbreads, split and cut in smaller pieces, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in flour, beaten egg, and 
finely sifted crumbs and fry in butter. Arrange attractive- 
ly on a platter with creamed asparagus tips. 



Tour baby's friend — pure milk — a quart a day. 



13 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



STUFFED LAMB OR VEAL HEARTS 

Carefully clean and wash six lamb or veal hearts. 
Stuff with a savory bread stuffing (the same as for fowl), 
and fasten up the slits with small toothpicks. Dip the 
hearts in flour and fry in deep fat until they are a rich 
brown; then drain and set aside. Fry one sliced onion 
in hot butter, turn into an earthen baking-dish, put up 
the hearts with a little chopped parsley and a few thin 
slices of bacon and cover with boiling water. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper, cover the dish and let cook 
slowly until the hearts are tender. Baste with the liquor 
in the pan as it cooks down. 

LAMB KIDNEYS 

IV2 dozen kidneys, % can of tomatoes, 1 tablespoon 
of flour and 1 tablespoon of butter. Cut the kidneys in 
halves and soak them Vz hour in cold water. Drain and 
cover them with boiling water and parboil until tender, 
changing the water several times. Drain, dredge with 
flour and brown slightly in a little butter or olive oil. 
Season with salt and pepper. Strain the juice from the 
tomatoes. Cook the butter and flour together and add to 
the tomatoes. Cook until creamy. Pour well seasoned 
tomato sauce into a deep platter, arrange the kidneys on 
the sauce and serve hot. 

FRIED BEEF BRAINS 

The day before the brains are wanted, put a teaspoon- 
ful each of vinegar and salt in a quart of water and, when 
boiling, drop in the beef brains. Cook for twenty minutes. 
Drain, blanch in cold water, and remove all membranes. 
Wash in several waters, and press down in a bowl with a 
weight. Put in the refrigerator overnight. In the morn- 
ing slice, dust with flour, and fry in butter in the electric 
grill. 



Clean, wholesome milk should be the basis of every 
child's diet. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 14 



cTWeat Sauces 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls fat, 4 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 cupful 
chicken-stock, 1 cupful cream; salt and pepper to taste. 
Use with chicken timbales, broiled mushrooms, savory rice 
croquettes, and the like. 

DRAWN-BUTTER SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 cup- 
ful boiling water, % teaspoonful salt, few grains of pep- 
per. Use with fish or asparagus. 

CAPER SAUCE 

Make drawn-butter sauce and add % cupful capers 
with their liquor, or the same quantity of pickled nas- 
turtium seeds. Use with fish or lamb. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls fat, 4 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful onion-juice, 2 cupfuls brown soup-stock, 3 drops 
kitchen-bouquet, % cupful sauteed mushrooms. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Use with steak or reheated beef. 
HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Add % cupful grated horseradish, 1 teaspoonful 
powdered sugar, % teaspoonful mustard, and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar to one cupful of brown sauce. Use 
with beef, ham, or tongue. 

MINT SAUCE 

1 bunch fresh mint leaves, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 
tablespoon lemon juice, V2 cup vinegar. Chop leaves, do 
not grind; add the remainder of the ingredients and allow 
to stand V2 hour before serving. 

FROZEN HORSERADISH SAUCE 

1 cupful freshly grated horseradish, V2 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 tablespoonful mild vinegar, 1 cupful heavy cream. 
Whip cream till solid, add horseradish, salt, and vinegar, 
pour into a mold, cover tightly, and bury for an hour and 
a half in equal parts of salt and ice. Use with hot boiled 
or baked ham or any boiled fish. 



Fresh, pure milk should be the basis of a child's 

diet. 



15 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 

Vegetables 

"A dish that I do love to feed upon." 

Vegetables that harmonize with certain meats are as 
follows : 

With Lamb or Mutton — Potatoes, rice, tomatoes, 
onions, peas, string beans, spinach, asparagus, cucumbers, 
radishes, lettuce, corn, celery, mint, new cabbage. 

With Veal — Rice, potatoes, macaroni, string beans, 
celery, tomatoes, cress, spinach, mushrooms, asparagus, 
peppers, tart jelly, grape jelly, olives, new cabbage, onions, 
peas. 

With Beef — Potatoes, sweet potatoes, string beans, 
egg-plant, spinach, squash, onions, turnips, raw cabbage, 
tomatoes, greens of all kinds, beets, romaine lettuce, com, 
parsnips, carrots, chow-chow, celery, salsify, cucumbers. 

With Salt Meats — Cabbage, parsnips, carrots, onions, 
greens, potatoes, sour pickles, beets. 

With Bacon and Ham — Potatoes, brown rice, macaroni, 
peppers, eggs, greens of all kinds, string beans, baked 
beans, corn bread, johnnycake. 

With Chicken and Turkey — Potatoes, rice (or cro- 
quettes), squash, string beans, turnips, celery, cranberry- 
sauce, egg-plant, salad plants, mushrooms, asparagus, 
peas. 

With Game — Rice, wild fruit jelly, all green salads, 
tomatoes, cucumbers, radishes, entire wheat bread or rolls, 
ripe olives, celery, mushrooms. 

With Pork and Goose — Onions, apples, cranberry jelly, 
sour pickles, tomatoes, cabbage, sweet potatoes, potatoes, 
spinach, cucumbers. 

With Fat Fish (salt or fresh) — Greens, salad plants, 
cucumbers, radishes, string beans, potatoes, brown rice, 
sour sauces, tomatoes, onions, peppers. 

With. Lean Fish — Potatoes, croquettes, fried potatoes, 
tomatoes, broiled bacon, salad plants, asparagus, peas, 
creamed vegetables. 

ONIONS AU GRATIN 

12 medium-sized onions, about 1 cupful of American 
cheese, salt and pepper, soup-stock or hot water, ^4 cupful 
melted butter. Boil onions till partly tender and then re- 
move the centers with an apple-corer. Fill cavities with 
the cheese, and place onions in a baking-dish. Dredge 
them with salt and pepper, sprinkle with the butter, barely 
cover the bottom of a baking-dish with stock or water, 



Better milk makes better babies. Better babes 
make better men and women. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 16 

and bake covered till tender, then uncover and finish about 
five minutes more. They should not be baked too hard, or 
the cheese will be indigestible. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

3 cupfuls sliced cooked potatoes, 6 hard-cooked eggs, 
IV^ cupfuls well-seasoned milk sauce, 6 strips bacon. But- 
ter a baking-dish and put in a layer of potatoes. Cover 
with a layer of the egg& sliced, then with one of potatoes, 
and pour over the cream sauce. Spread the bacon over 
the top, and bake in a hot oven till the bacon is crisp, 
about twenty minutes. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, POMPADOUR 

Wash well and chop very fine 1 pound of fresh mush- 
rooms, rub the mushrooms, place them in a saute pan with 
^ pint of cream sauce and 1 gill of cream and allow the 
mushrooms and the sauce to cook together until well re- 
duced and of good consistency, then bind with 2 raw egg 
yolks, season to taste and finish with 1 ounce of butter, 
meantime heat some artichoke bottoms in broth; when 
ready to dish up, drain them and fill them with the puree 
of mushrooms. Serve with a little Madeira sauce on the 
dish. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

1 three-pound cabbage, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 
onion, 6 eggs, 1 cupful cracker-crumbs, % cupful milk, 1% 
teaspoonfuls salt, V4, teaspoonful pepper. Remove the 
wilted outer leaves from the cabbage, then break off 
enough leaves to line a bowl the size of the cabbage. 
Shred the rest of the head, add enough water to keep it 
from sticking and 1 tablesponful of butter, and stew it for 
twenty-five minutes. In the meanwhile scald the milk, 
pour it on the cracker-crumbs, add the eggs unbeaten, the 
salt and pepper, and the onion minced and browned in the 
remaining butter. Combine this paste with the cabbage, 
mixing well. Lay a large square of cheese-cloth in the 
bowl, place the cabbage leaves on this, giving them the 
shape of the cabbage. Fill with the mixture, draw the 
cloth up tightly, and tie. Plunge into a pot of boiling, 
salted water and boil for two hours. Serve with brown 
butter sauce, as the main dish at luncheon or supper. 



Drink more milk and reduce the meat bill. 



17 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



CORN FRITTERS 

Chop 1 can of corn and add the following dry ingre- 
dients: 1 cupful flour, 1 level teaspoonful baking powder, 
2 level teaspoonfuls salt and a little paprika. Beat the 
yolkg of 2 eggs and add to mixture, then fold in the stiffly- 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Cook in a frying-pan in fresh 
hot lard V2 inch deep, adding from time to time enough 
lard to keep it that depth. 

FRIED POTATO BALLS 

Force hot boiled potatoes through ricer. To 1 cupful 
beat in 1 level tablespoonful butter, salt, celery salt and 
white pepper to taste. When partly cooled add one-half a 
beaten egg and a little finely chopped parsley. Shape, roll 
in flour, fry in deep fat, drain on absorbent paper. 

CORN OYSTERS 

Grate the com from 6 ears of com, mix with it 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, season 
with salt and pepper. Have equal measures of lard and 
butter in a frying-pan, and when hot drop in the com in 
lumps size of an oyster, and fry brown. 

EGGS IN TOMATOES 

Select large, ripe, firm tomatoes. Plunge them into 
boiling water for a moment to remove skins. Cut out 
hard stem ends, making a hollow sufficiently large to hold 
a broken egg. Into each hollow drop a fresh egg without 
breaking yolk. Season with butter, pepper and salt, and 
bake in a moderate oven until tomatoes are tender and 
eggs set. Serve on rounds of buttered toast either plain 
or with cream sauce. 



Fresh, pure ??iilk makes babes of brain and brawn. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 18 



ASPARAGUS HOLLANDAISE 

1 bunch asparagus, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1% table- 
spoonfuls flour, Vz cup milk, Vs teaspoonful pepper, few 
grains Cayenne, 2 egg yolks, Vz cup butter, 1 tablespoonful 
lemon juice. Prepare asparagus for cooking and boil in 
salted water until tender. Melt butter, add flour, and stir 
until well blended, add milk, and bring to boiling point, 
add salt, pepper and Cayenne. Add egg yolks slightly 
beaten, and while stirring constantly, and keeping mixture 
hot but not allowing it to boil, add butter, bit by bit, and 
lemon juice. Arrange asparagus on platter or toast, and 
over it pour the sauce. 

RICE AND LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Add a cupful of boiled rice to Lyonnaise potatoes just 
before you take them from the fire; they will go farther, 
and the rice kernels will add a distinctly pleasing flavor. 

MACARONI TIMBALES 

with oysters are delicious served with the dinner. Line 
small buttered timbale molds with boiled macaroni cut 
the proper length, and fill the centers with a combination 
of chopped oysters, seasoned bread crumbs and white 
sauce. Serve them with tomato sauce. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET 

% cupful cooked asparagus, 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 cupful milk, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1/4 teaspoonful pepper, cooked asparagus tips for 
garnishing. Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, butter 
and seasoning; add the asparagus cut in inch-lengths; sep- 
arate the eggs, beat the whites till stiff and the yolks till 
lemon-colored. Stir the white sauce into the yolks and 
fold the whole into the whites, allowing flecks of white to 
float on top. Turn into a warm omelet pan containing two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and cook gently till 
browned on the bottom. Finish in the oven, turn onto a 
heated platter, and garnish with asparagus tips. 



I'he basis of a child's diet should be milk — at least 
a quart- a day. 



19 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



BAKED EGGS WITH PIMIENTO POTATOES 

2 cupfuls hot riced potatoes, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, 
Vz cupful rich milk, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 sifted canned pi- 
mientoes, 6 eggs. Beat together the potatoes, milk, butter, 
salt and pimientoes till blended. Pile on a buttered, fire- 
proof dish, make six indentations, and into each break an 
egg. Dust witih salt and pepper and dot with butter; bake 
till the eggs are set. 

BAKED POTATOES 

One way to vary the monotony of baked potatoes is to 
cut in half lengthwise, remove the inside, mash, adding 
butter, salt and pepper, beat to cream, and put back in 
shell, placing a slice of bacon on the top of each. Place in 
hot oven until bacon is fried crisp and then serve immedi- 
ately. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

1 tomato, Vz teaspoonful butter, Vz teaspoonful onion 
(chopped fine), V4 teaspoonful green pepper, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls cooked rice, 1 teaspoonful bread crumbs. Loosen the 
skin of tomato over the blaze, then peel. Cut off a slice 
of top and remove the inside. Sprinkle the inside of the 
hollowed tomato with salt and turn upside down. Melt 
butter, add onion and pepper, cook until slightly brown, 
add rice, cook a minute, mix with pulp of tomato and fill 
tomato shell. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake. 

CANDIED OR SUGARED SWEET POTATOES 

Boil or steam with skins, until tender; pare; place in 
pan. One cup of water, Vz cupful sugar, 1 tablespoonf ul 
butter, a pinch of salt, a little nutmeg; bake half an hour. 

SOUTHERN SWEET POTATOES 

Boil sweet potatoes until half done. Peel them and 
put them in a pan, adding 1 cup of water, 1 rounding 
tablespoonful of sugar, Vz teaspoonful of salt, 1/3 teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg. Bake thirty minutes, basting frequently. 



Happy the mother, healthy the babe nourished 
zvith milk. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 20 



Salads 

"To make a perfect salad, there must be a spendthrift 
for oil, a miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a 
mad-cap to stir the ingredients up and mix them well to- 
gether." 

SUGGESTIONS FOR SALAD 

Cut pears in long pieces, slice cucumbers thin, serve 
with mayonnaise. 

Grapes, walnuts and pineapple served with boiled 
dresing. 

Grapes, walnuts and pimiento served with dressing. 

Hollow out tomatoes, stand asparagus tips up in 
them, put spoonful of mayonnaise in each, sprinkle with 
minced parsley. 

Place asparagus tips on individual plates and circle 
each end with a ring of red or green pepper; place a 
small ring on top with a spoonful of tiny bottled German 
onions; serve with dressing. 

Frendi Dressing — Take equal parts of olive oil and 
vinegar; paprika, salt, and a tablespoonful of catsup. Beat 
well. 

NUT AND ASPARAGUS SALAD 

6 hard-cooked eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped hickory 
nut meats, 1 cupful cooked asparagus tips, 1 teaspoonful 
minced parsley, French dressing, extra nut-meats, parsley 
and asparagus tips. Shell the eggs and cut in halves 
lengthwise. Mash the yolks, add the nut-meats, the cupful 
of asparagus tips, and the parsley, and blend vdth 4 table- 
spoonfuls of French dressing that is not very sour. Fill 
the egg halves with this mixture, arrange on lettuce leaves, 
and garnish with the extra asparagus tips, parsley and 
nut-meats. If any of the asparagus mixture is left over, 
it can be blended with a mayonnaise or a bland boiled 
dressing and passed with the salad. 



Give the children ??iore milk, and watch them 
grow. 



21 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING 

2 tablespoonfuls chili sauce (with liquid drained off), 
2 tablespoonfuls very stiff mayonnaise, 1 teaspoonful 
smallest pickled pearl onions. Season to taste. If de- 
sired, a teaspoonful of Roquefort cheese may be added. 
Served on lettuce hearts. 

POINSETTIA SALAD 

Place fresh, crisp lettuce leaf on a salad plate. On 
this a slice of pineapple. Cut the pineapple into small 
pieces without moving it. Now take a sweet red pepper 
and cut into strips the shape of a poinsettia petal and 
place over the pineapple (having 6 petals in all), into the 
center place a maraschino cherry. This is delicious served 
with a rich mayonnaise dressing. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

1 egg (well beaten), 1 piece of butter, size of walnut, 
\^ teaspoonful sugar, pinch of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of 
flour, 1/2 cup of vinegar. Mix well. Put on stove and 
stir constantly till the mixture thickens. Take off and 
beat until smooth. 

PINEAPPLE AND TOMATO SALAD 

Arrange a slice of pineapple and a thick slice of to- 
mato on a crisp lettuce leaf and serve with mayonnaise. 
This is a salad pleasing to the eye as well as to the 
"inner man." 



A quart of milk a day will keep the doctor away 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 22 



For the Chafing Dish 

"Give to each ^est 
Only what he may digest." 

LOBSTER GLIDE 

Cook 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and the same of flour 
to a cream in the chafing dish. Add 1 cupful of rich milk, 
salt, and paprika, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Beat 
with a whisk until foamy, then add 1^/^ cupfuls of lobster 
meat coarsely chopped. Cover and cook four minutes. 
Then stir in half a can of French peas, and as soon as 
the latter are hot, serve on toast. 

TOMATO RAREBIT 

2 cups of finely cut cheese, % cup tomato juice, % 
cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, pinch of soda, 2 table- 
spoonfuls fiour, 1 teaspoonful mustard, 1 egg. Mix but- 
ter and flour, and add milk as you do in making a cream 
sauce; add hot tomato juice with mustard, salt, pepper 
and soda, then cheese, and lastly add beaten egg. Serve 
on small squares of toast. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

2 pairs sweetbreads, parboiled, blanched and cut into 
small pieces; 1 pint of cream, 4 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, pinch salt, pinch nutmeg, white 
pepper. Melt the butter, stir in flour until well blended; 
then the cream. When sauce is smooth and creamy, add 
sweetbreads and cook for five minutes. 

DIGESTIBLE RAREBIT 

Make a cream sauce of 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 
tablespoonful flour and IV^ cups milk. Season with salt, 
pepper and dash of cayenne. Add 1 cup grated cheese and 
stir until melted. A tablespooful of Worcestershire sauce 
may be added if desired. Pour over hot buttered toast and 
serve at once. 



Tc 



grow sturdy sons and fair daughters — a diet 
of pure milk. 



23 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 

FRESH MUSHROOMS— ENGLISH FASHION 

Wash well the mushrooms, season with salt and a little 
pepper and toss them in butter until done; dish up on 
square pieces of toasted bread and lay on each two thin 
slices of broiled bacon. This dish is one of the favorite 
breakfast dishes in England when the fresh field mush- 
rooms are in season. 

HAM AND FRIED BREAD 

The following recipe is sufficient for two portions: Fry 
2 thick slices of bread (cut off crusts) in 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter in a saucepan or chafing dish; add 2 heaping table- 
spoonfuls minced cooked ham and 2 heaping tablespoon- 
fuls grated cheese; a gill of sweet cream. Season well 
with salt, cayenne pepper. Cook until cheese is melted 
and the mixture very hot, then pour over toast and serve 
at once on hot plates. It is delicious. 

SARDINE ON TOAST 

1 box of boned sardines, 1 tablespoonful finely-chopped 
onion, the juice of 1 lemon, a small cupful of tomato ketch- 
up, salt and red pepper to taste. Empty sardines (oil and 
all) into chafing dish, add onion, lemon juice, ketchup and 
seasoning. Stir gently to mix thoroughly, being careful 
not to break sardines more than necessary. When very hot 
serve on toast. This is especially desirable done in the 
chafing dish. 



Tour baby's friend — pure milk — a quart a day. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 24 



Cakes and Cookies 

"Problems of state confront the great, 
And love, they say, is bitter sweet; 
But the question that perplexes us 
Far more than love or politics. 
Is how to bake this cake." 

MARSHMALLOW^ CAKE 

Whites of 11 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 V2 cups of 
sugar, 1 cup and 1 tablespoonful flour; measure the sugar 
and flour after sifting three times. Beat the eggs in a 
vessel large enough to make the whole cake in; then add 
the sugar gently and then the flour, to which 2 teaspoon- 
fuls cream of tartar has been added. Bake in three layers, 
without greasing the pans, in a moderate oven. 

Filling — 1 cup of sugar, V2 cup of water, boil until it 
threads, then add the white of 1 egg well beaten and lastly 
M pound of marshmallows. Set off and stir until cool; 
flavor to taste. 

PRUNE CAKE 

2 eggs, 1 scant cup sugar, 1 cup prunes (seeded and 
mashed fine), 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
scant teaspoon soda dissolved in two teaspoons water. 
Flour to make a four-layer cake. Bake in four layers for 
a cake; if for pie put two layers together. Put together 
with custard or whipped cream. 

RICH COOKIES 

2 cupfuls butter,l cupful sugar, 2 egg yolks, rind and 
juice V2 lemon, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 cupful 
finely chopped almonds, 5 to 6 cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful 
desired flavoring. Cream together butter and sugar, stir 
in egg yolks, lemon and almonds, and then stir in two 
cupfuls of flour mixed with the baking powder. Work in 
flour to roll, make into thin wafers, sprinkle with sugar, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



Clean, wholesome milk should be the basis of every 
child's diet. 



25 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

2 eggs, well beaten, %, cup sweet cream, 1 cup sugar, 
1^/^ cups flour, iy2 teaspoons baking powder; flavor to 

taste. 

DATE BARS 

1 cupful sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cupful chopped English wal- 
nut meats, 1 pound dates, 1 cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful 
baking powder, few grains salt. Beat egg yolks, combine 
with sugar, and stir till creamy. Mix together the flour, 
baking powder and salt; add the nuts and the dates, stoned 
and quartered; beat the egg whites stiff and add alter- 
nately with the flour mixture to the yolks and sugar. 
Bake in a sheet in a small dripping pan about thirty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Remove from the pan, cut into 
bars and roll in powdered sugar, or ice with orange or 
chocolate frosting and decorate with nut meats and stoned 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS 

2\^ cups flour, 4 level teaspoons baking powder, 2 
eggs, 1 cup sugar, V2 teaspoon salt, V2 teaspoon mace, 1 cup 
cold mashed potatoes, % cup milk or more if needed. Sift 
together three times the flour, salt and baking powder. 
Beat eggs and add sugar gradually, still beating work in 
mashed potatoes, add alternately the milk and flour. 

ROCKS 

1% cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 2% cups flour, 1 
teaspoon soda in tablespoon warm water, % pound chopped 
dates, 1% pounds English walnuts, V2 teaspoon cloves. 
Drop in teaspoon on buttered tins and bake. 
NUT TEA CAKES 

1 cupful light brown sugar, V2 cupful butter, V2 cup- 
ful sweet milk, 2 egg whites, 1 egg yolk, 2 cupfuls flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 cupful rolled hickory 
nuts. Cream together the butter and sugar, add the milk 
and the egg whites and the yolk well beaten. Stir in the 
flour, baking powder and hickory nuts well mixed together 
and drop by teaspoonfuls onto a well-oiled baking sheet, 
keeping them an inch and a half apart. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 



Fresh, pure milk should be the basis of a child's 
diet. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 26 



Make These with Buttermilk 

Houswives famous for their cooking know the secret 
of making the best pancakes. They use buttermilk. 
Many of them obtained this secret from grandmothers 
who learned it on the farm. When grandma or her neigh- 
bors churned, some of the buttermilk was saved for pan- 
cakes. 

PANCAKES 

1 pint buttermilk, 1 tablespoon of eornmeal, 1 pint 
flour, 1 tablespoon of butter, melted, 1 teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in hot water, 1 egg beaten separately and white 
added just before baking. A little salt. 

RICE PANCAKES 

2 cups of flour, 1 cup of cold boiled rice, 1 cup of but- 
termilk, 2 eggs, Vz teaspoon soda and a little salt. Dis- 
solve soda in a little water. Fry a nice brown. 

SOUTHERN WAFFLES 

Beat until light 2 eggs. For a pint of flour add V2 
teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons baking powder, ^^ cup 
syrup (or 2 tablespoons sugar). Melt a tablespoon but- 
ter, add buttermilk to make a stiff batter. Beat hard for 
a few minutes. Add buttermilk until batter is thin enough 
to pour. 

SWEET POTATO BISCUITS 

Take 1 cup mashed sweet potatoes, add 1 tablespoon 
sugar, add 1 tablespoon butter, cream them well together. 
Dissolve V2 teaspoon baking soda in 1 cup of buttermilk 
and stir into the potato mixture. Now add 2 cups of flour 
sifted, with 1 teaspoon salt and mix. Roll out with a 
small cutter and bake in hot oven for 15 minutes. This 
recipe makes 24 biscuits. 



Better fnilk makes better babies. Better babes 
make better men and -women. 



27 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



BUTTERMILK PIE 

1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup buttermilk, 1 cup sugar, • 
1 egg, 1 small tablespoon flour, butter size small egg, nut- 
meg and cinnamon. Put all together on stove and let 
thicken and put between two crusts to bake. 

NUT BREAD 

2 cups graham flour, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in hot water, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, IVz 
cups buttermilk, 1 egg, 1 pound walnuts chopped and iy2 
cups raisins. Bake in bread pans in very moderate oven. 

PRUNE CAKE 

1 cup sugar, % cup buttermilk, Vz cup butter, Vz tea- 
spoon soda, yolks of 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, spices to taste, 
1 cup prunes seeded and chopped and added last. Bake in 
two layers. Use whipped cream for filling or the whites 
of eggs and sugar for filling and icing. 

MUFFINS 

1 cup buttermilk, 1 scant teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon of 
sugar, Vs teaspoon of salt, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon of melted 
butter. First mix milk and soda, then add other ingre- 
dients and add flour enough to make a thick batter. Last 
thing before dropping into well-greased muffin tins add 1 
teaspoon of baking powder. 

GINGERBREAD 

3 eggs, 2 cups brown or white sugar, Vz cup butter, 3 
cups flour, 1 cup buttermilk, Vz cup syrup, 1 teaspoon 
soda, % teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon lemon. Add the stiffly beat- 
en whites of eggs last. 



Drink more milk and reduce the meat bill. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 28 



Bread 

"The very staff of life, 
The comfort of the husband; 
The pride of the wife." 

ENGLISH MUFFINS 

3 cupfuls of new milk, 2 well-beaten eggs, a piece of 
butter the size of % egg, a teaspoonful salt, a cake of 
compressed yeast. Flour to make stiff batter. Let stand 
over night and do not stir; bake in gem tins or muffin 
ring. 

KENTUCKY SPOON BREAD. 

Beat separately 5 eggs. After salting a cup of white 
corn meal scald it with boiling water. This will give it 
the appearance of thick mush. Pour and stir quickly so 
as to prevent eggs cooking, the beaten yolks into the bat- 
ter. Stir this well. Add lump of butter. Now pour in 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and pour whole into a 
well-greased baking pan. Use Vz cup of sweet milk. Make 
batter thin. 

APPLE JOHNNYCAKE 

2 cupfuls home-ground cornmeal, 1 cupful flour, 3 
sweet apples, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, IV^ cupfuls milk. Mix together the dry ingredients, 
beat in the milk and the apples cored, pared, and thinly 
sliced. Pour into a well oiled, shallow tin and bake in a 
moderate oven till the apple is well done, from thirty-five 
to forty minutes. This should be served very hot with 
butter, or may be cooled and served crumbled in milk for 
the children's supper. 



Fresh, pure milk makes babes of brain and brawn. 



29 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



ROLLS 

Scald 1 pint of new milk and add to it 1 tablespoon of 
sugar and flour to make quite a stiff batter. When cool 
add Vi cup veast or y^. cake dry yeast. Let rise over night 
and in the morning add Yi cup of butter, 1 teaspoon salt 
and the well-beaten whites of 2 eggs. Mix soft and knead 
well and let rise; knead again and roll out until about % 
of an inch in thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter, spread 
butter on one half and roll the other over it. Let rise 
again until very light, then bake. Try this once and you 
will try it again. 

BREAD 

Take 4 good-sized potatoes; boil and mash very fine; 
add 1 pint potato water and 1 quart hot milk; stir in flour 
until you have a stiff batter; when lukewarm, add 1 yeast 
cake, dissolved in V4 cup lukewarm water; cover and set 
in a warm place to rise. When light, add 1 teaspoon sugar, 
3 teaspoons salt, 1 tablespoon lard, melted, and flour to 
make dough; knead well. Let rise and make into loaves. 
Let rise and bake. 

FEDERAL BREAD 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 teacup sweet cream, 1 teacup yeast, 
enough flour for a soft dough. When light, roll out in 
layers about ^/4 inch thick, putting two layers in each pan. 
This will make three panfuls. When done, butter between 
the layers, cut in pie shape, and serve hot. 

NUT BREAD 

2 cups white flour, 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup chopped 
nuts, 2 cups milk, Vz cup sugar, 6 teaspoons salt, 4 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Let stand thirty minutes in a pan. 
Bake forty minutes. 

CORN ROLLS 

Wi, cups flour, % cup meal, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der, % teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespons 
butter or one of lard, V^ cup sweet milk. Sift dry ingre- 
dients together and chop shortening into them. Beat egg 
and add to milk, mix all together to make a soft dough, 
cut with biscuit cutter and fold over with butter between. 
Brush top with milk and bake almost fifteen minutes. 



^he basis of a child's diet should be milk — at least 
a quart a day. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 30 

Puddings for all Occasions 

"The proof of the pudding lies in the eating." 

APPLE SNOW PUDDING 

2 cupfuls of strained apples, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1% cupfuls of flour, 
Vi. teaspoonful of salt. Put strained apples in a pudding 
dish, mix dry ingredients together, rub in the butter, add 
milk to make a drop batter. Pour over the apples on 
pudding dish, place on steamer, cook forty-five minutes. 
Serve at once with sweetened cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

y-i cupful of butter, 1 cupful of sugar, % cupful of 
milk, 2 eggs, 2 cupfuls of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, Vz teaspoonful of salt. Cream the butter, add 
sugar gradually and the egg well beaten without separat- 
ing. Flour and baking powder alternately with the cup- 
ful of milk. Turn in buttered cake pan ; bake half an hour. 
Serve with vanilla sauce. 

RICE PUDDING 

% cupful of rice, 1 quart of milk, a little salt, boil un- 
til tender, then add Vt. package gelatine dissolved in Vz 
cupful of water five minutes, sweeten to taste, flavor milk 
with vanilla. Set in a cool place, when about to get firm, 
add '^k. pint cream whipped. Put in mold and place in cold 
place. Serve with berries or whipped cream. 

APPLE PUDDING 

Fill a buttered baking dish half full of sliced apples 
and pour over them a batter made of 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, y-i. cupful of sugar, y^ cupful of milk, 1 cupful of 
flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a moderate 
oven vmtil brown. Serve with cream and sugar. 



Happy the mother^ healthy the babe nourished 
with milk. 



31 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



STEAMED CUP CUSTARDS 

Boil 1 quart of fresh milk and cool. Beat the yolks 
of 12. eggs until lemon-colored. Add 1 quart thin cream 
or rich milk, and last the scalded milk. Season with a 
pinch of salt, 1 cupful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and 
steam in custard cups. When cups are filled grate nut- 
meg over the top. These are delcious, and serve to use up 
the yolks left from an angel cake. 



BAVARIAN CREAM 

Pick over 2 quarts of strawberries, squeeze through a 
colander, add 2 teacupfuls sugar. When sugar is dissolved 
add three tablespoonfuls of gelatine previously soaked in 
Vz cupful of tepid water, stir in smooth, and when begin- 
ning to set, stir in 1 pint of whipped cream, form into 
molds, and serve with whole strawberries around it. 

MAUVE PUDDING 

1% tablespoonfuls gelatine, V2 cupful boiling water, 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful orange juice, 1 
cupful grape juice, 1 cupful granulated sugar, 2 egg 
whites, % cupful heavy cream. Let gelatine stand in a 
little cold water till soft. Dissolve in the boiling water, 
add sugar and fruit juices, and let stand till beginning to 
set. Then beat with an egg-beater till frothy. Whisk in 
the egg whites beaten stiff, and beat till almost firm. 
Then fold in the cream whipped. Pile in sherbet glasses, 
decorate with candied violets, and serve plain or with cus- 
tard sauce. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

V2 pint sweet cream, whip and sweeten slightly, Vz 
pound of marshmallows cut fine with the scissors, Vz pound 
of English walnuts. Beat all together and set away in a 
cold place. 



Give the children fnore milk, and zvatch them 
grow. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 32 

CHILLED PEACH CUSTARD 

A pint of rich milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, % cupful of 
sugar and a little salt, flavoring to taste. Cook in a 
double boiler until it begins to thicken. When cool, pour 
over halves of the peaches and chill. Place in a glass and 
top with whipped cream. Decorate with any kind of sea- 
sonable fruit. Care must be taken not to cook custard too 
long or it will be "grainy." 

DRESSING FOR STEAMED PUDDING 

1 cupful of brown sugar, Vo cupful of butter, 1 pint 
of boiling water, 1 tablespoonful of corn starch. Let the 
above cook until clear and flavor with vanilla. 

WINE SAUCE 

Cream together 1 cupful of powdered sugar and ^/^ 
cupful of butter. Whip 1 cupful of sweet cream and beat 
into the butter and sugar. Put the whole in a double 
boiler over the fire and beat until it is smooth and foaming, 
then add IV^ wineglassfuls of sherry. Serve at once. 

RUM SAUCE 

To be served with vanilla only. Beat the yolks of 3 
eggs, add 6 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 1 pint of 
double cream whipped, % cupful of Jamaica rum, V2 cup- 
ful of sherry, dash of nutmeg. 

HARD FRUIT SAUCE 

V4. cupful butter, 1 cupful powdered sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls cream, 1 cupful crushed fruit. Cream the but- 
ter and work in the sugar and cream alternately. To this 
base add a cupful of canned or fresh strawberries, rasp- 
berries, blackberries, peaches or apricots, crushed till very 
soft. These should be worked in gradually. 

DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped walnuts (coarse), 1 cup dates, chopped, 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of flour, 1 teaspoon of 
baking powder. Stir dates and walnuts together. Stir 
sugar with eggs, lightly. Sift flour and baking powder. 
Stir all together and bake one hour. When taken out of 
oven it will be all puffed up, but will soon fall. Serve in 
sherbet cups with whipped cream. 



A quart of milk a day will keep the doctor away. 



33 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



More Desserts 



"An' 't please your Honor," quote the Peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant." 

MARSHMALLOW WHIP 

V2 pint of cream, whipped, sweeten to taste. Add 1 
dozen marshmallows, quartered, V2 cup English walnuts, 
chopped fine, 6 maraschino cherries, chopped fine. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

CHILLED CHOCOLATE 

Use 4 cups of milk, add chocolate and a little sugar 
as for cocoa. Cool; beat a pint of whipping cream and 4 
eggs together stiff as possible. Beat this with Dover egg- 
beater into chocolate mixture. Set on ice till ready to 
serve; put in glases with whipped cream on top. Will serve 
seven glasses. 

ORANGE SHERBET 

, Juice of 1 dozen oranges, V2 dozen lemons, 4 cups 
sugar, 2 quarts water; freeze. Just before it is frozen 
stiff, add whites of 2 well-beaten eggs. 

PEACH SHERBET 

3 cups sugar, 6 cups water; boil to a syrup, about 20 
minutes. Add % cup lemon juice, white of 1 egg, as many 
peaches mashed as desired; freeze. 

MARSHMALLOW ICE CREAM 

Cut V2 pound marshmallows; roll very fine 1 dozen 
macaroons, first drying them in oven. Dissolve this in 1 
pint cream. Dissolve 2 tablespoons gelatine in 3 table- 
spoons of milk, stirring it over the fire. Add this to first 
mixture and when ready to freeze beat in 3 pints of cream 
and flavor with vanilla. Stir in nuts when partly frozen. 



'T'o grow sturdy sons and fair daughters — a diet 
of pure milk. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY S4 



Candy 

"Sweets to the sweet." 

DIVINITY 

2 cups granulated sugar, i cup syrup, i cup boil- 
ing water. Boil together until it forms a thread 
or soft ball in cold water, then pour it very slowly into 
the stiffly beaten white of one egg, beat constantly and 
add V2 cup of nuts. When almost hard, drop on buttered 
paper. 

FUDGE 

2 cups sugar, V2 cup sweet milk, butter size of large 
walnut, flavor with vanilla, grate chocolate in and cook 
until it makes a soft ball when dropped in water. Stir 
until hard. 

COCOANUT FUDGE 

2^/^ cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 spoons vanilla, 
butter size of walnut, 1 cup cocoanut. Mix the sugar and 
milk, bring to a boil, test in cold water and just before 
taking off the stove put the butter and vanilla in and after 
taking off the fire drop the cocoanut in and beat. Pour in 
buttered pan. 

CRACKER JACK 

1 cup brown sugar, y3 cup molases, 5^ cup butter, % 
cup water, V^ teaspoon cream tartar or 1 tablespoon vine- 
gar. Boil until it strings. Mix well with 10 cups of 
popped corn, put on board until cold. 

PEANUT CANDY 

1 cup white sugar, 1 cup chopped peanuts. Put sugar 
into a smoking hot frying pan, stir until it dissolves, add 
nuts and turn into a buttered dish at once. 



f'oi/r baby's friend — pure milk — a quart a day 



35 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



STUFFED DATES 

Remove the date stones and fold an English walnut 
meat in its place. Dip the whole in melted fondant and 
roll in powdered sugar. 

EXCELLENT PENOCHE 

2 cups of brown or maple sugar, 1 cup white sugar, 1 
cup milk, 1 small tablespoon butter. Boil until syrup 
hardens when dropped in cold water. Remove from fire 
and beat. When nearly cold stir in V2 cup of finely chopped 
nut meats. Turn into a buttered pan before it gets too 
cold to spread evenly. When cold enough make into 
squares. Have nut meats ready before starting to cook 
syrup. 

SOUR CREAM FUDGE 

Vz cup granulated sugar, browned, 1 cup sour cream, 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup nuts. Cook until it balls, add nuts when 
taken from fire. Beat until begins to thicken, pour out on 
buttered plate. 

CHILLING FUDGE 

Candy makers will be glad to know that "grainess" in 
fudge can be avoided if the right method is followed after 
removing from the heat. It is commonly believed that the 
important point in the making of good fudge is a knowl- 
edge of when to take it from the fire. The after process 
is fully as necessary to good results. If the mixture is 
removed from the heat and beaten until ready to pour, or 
is allowed to stand a time before beating, it is certain to 
have a grainy texture. But if the pan is placed imme- 
diately in cold water and the candy stirred with a silver 
spoon, instead of being beaten, it will assume a velvety 
creaminess that is hard to secure otherwise, for the con- 
tact of the heat of the cooking vessel with the cold of the 
water arrests crystalliaztion. 



Clean, wholesome milk should he the basis of every 
child's diet. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 36 



Proper Food for Young Children 

Simple bills of fare, helpful recipes, and practical di- 
rections for the preparation of foods for children between 
three and six years of age, are contained in a bulletin is- 
sued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture. The bulle- 
tin was written by Caroline L. Hunt. 

A QUART OF MILK A DAY 

The basis of a child's diet should be clean whole milk 
— at least a quart a day. Such milk, in addition to water, 
contains about half a cupful of the very best food sub- 
stances — butterfat, milk, sugar, lime and other materials 
needed by the child to make muscles, bones and teeth. In 
addition, milk contains a substance thought to promote 
growth by helping the body make good use of other foods. 

The child should drink the milk with the chill taken 
off, or should consume his full quart a day with cereals 
and in milk toast, cocoa, milk soups and stews, in cereal 
puddings, egg-and-milk puddings, custards, junkets or 
simple ice cream. Milk stews may be made with vege- 
tables or fish, or to vary the diet these things can be com- 
bined with cream sauce and served on milk toast. The 
bulletin therefore gives a large number of recipes, a few 
of which we reproduce, for the preparation of various 
milk dishes which will help children consume the requisite 
amount of milk without growing tired of this valuable 
food. 

There is -more than an ounce of fat (at least 2V^ level 
tablespoonfuls) in a quart of whole milk. If the healthy 
child is given a quart of milk, has butter on its bread, 
and meat or an egg once a day, he gets enough fat and 
that which he receives is in wholesome form. It is well, 
therefore, not to give such fatty foods as pastry, fried 
meats and vegetables, and doughnuts or rich cakes, for in 



Fresh, pure milk should be the basis of a child's 

diet. 



37 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



these the fats are not in so good a form for children, as 
experience has shown. If the child is constipated the oc- 
casional use of cream or salad oil is desirable, for fat in 
abundance is laxative. 

MILK SOUPS 

Milk-vegetable soups are made from cooked vege- 
tables, chopped or strained, which in this form may be 
given to even the youngest children, and milk slightly 
thickened. The vegetable may be asparagus, peas, beans, 
celery, potatoes, turnips, spinach, cress, cauliflower, or 
almost any other. 

GENERAL RECIPE FOR MILK-VEGETABLE SOUPS 

2 cupfuls milk, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 
salt, % cupful of a thoroughly cooked vegetable, finely 
chopped, mashed, or put through a sieve. Thicken the 
milk with the flour as for milk gravy, and add the other 
ingredients. If too thick, thin it with milk. 

RICE PUDDING 

1 quart milk, % cupful rice, % cupful sugar, Vz tea- 
spoon salt, Va teaspoon ground nutmeg, or cinnamon, or 
the grated rind of V4, lemon. Wash the rice thoroughly, 
mix the ingredients and bake three hours or more in a 
very slow oven. 

CEREAL-MILK PUDDING 

A pudding made of any coarse cereal and milk, sweet- 
ened and poured over stewed prunes or other cooked 
fruits, is especially recommended. 

JUNKET 

2 cupfuls milk, Vi cupful sugar, 1 junket tablet, Vs 
teaspoon salt. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. Warm 
the milk to about the temperature of the body, crush the 
tablet, and add it with the other ingredients to the milk. 
Pour into one large or several small dishes and place in 
a warm (not hot) place to harden. Cool before serving. 



Better milk ??iakes better babies. Better babes 
make better men and women. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 38 



BOILED CUSTARD 

3 egg yolks, 2 cupful s milk, i/4 cupful sugar or honey, 
Vs teaspoon salt, flavoring. Heat milk in double boiler. 
Thoroughly mix the eggs and sugar and pour the milk 
over them. Return the mixture to double boiler and heat 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. Cool and flavor. 
This custard may be served in place of cream on many 
kinds of desserts. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD 

Tapioca custards may be made as follows: Add to 
the list of ingredients % cupful of pearl tapioca after 
soaking in water for an hour. Drain it and cook in the 
milk until transparent. Proceed as for boiled custard. 

BAKED CUSTARDS 

In making allow 1 egg and 2 level teaspoonfuls of 
sugar and a few grains of salt and nutmeg for each cup- 
ful of milk. Beat eggs slightly and add other ingredients. 
Bake in cups set in a pan of water in a moderate oven. 



Drhik more milk and reduce the meat bill. 



39 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



Sandwiches 

"The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find, 
Lies through their mouths or I mistake mankind." 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

3 dozen ripe olives, chopped, 2 cups walnut meats, 
chopped, 2 hard boiled eggs, mashed fine. Mix well and 
add mayonnaise dressing enough to make a paste that will 
spread easily. Use sandwich bread. 

PIMENTO SANDWICHES 

1 can pimentos, chopped fine, 1 cup grated cheese, % 
teaspoonful salt. Mix thoroughly and spread on thin 
slices buttered bread. 

SARDINE PASTE 
6 Sapco sardines, minced, Vz cup of chopped olives, 2 
minced hard boiled eggs, 1/2 cup chopped nuts, 1 tablespoon 
chopped sour pickles and 1 cup of mayonnaise. 

SANDWICH FILLINGS 

2 cups cottage cheese, 1 small can of chopped S. Y. 
green chili, 1 tablespoon of chopped ripe olives and 1 table- 
spoon of chopped sour pickles. Mix well together. 

1 pound of cottage cheese and 1 small can of pimentos 
run through the grinder make delightful sandwiches. 
After grinding moisten with the juice of the pimentos. 
This makes 12 large sandwiches. 

Take the left-overs of any kind of meat and 1 hard 
boiled egg and treat the same as above, and moisten with 
a dressing of 1 teaspoon each of butter, vinegar and a dash 
of salt, mustard and cayenne pepper, also makes nice sand- 
wiches. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES 

White bread, chopped green peppers with mayonnaise. 
Rye bread, Swiss cheese and chives. 
White bread, stuffed olives chopped. Mix with boiled 
dressing. 

DATE SANDWICHES 

% cup dates, stoned, mashed and cut in small pieces, 
V% cup walnuts, chopped, ^ cup cream or dressing. 



Fresh, pure milk makes babes of brain and brawn. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 40 



To Serve Fifty People 

Coffee — IV2 lbs. — makes 3 gallons. 2V4. gallons for 
black coffee, after-dinner cups. 

Chocolate — 1 lb. — makes 2 gallons (25 to 30 cups to a 
gallon.) 

When both tea and coffee are served — Tea, 1 gallon; 
coffee, IV2 gallons. Loaf sugar for same, 2 lbs. 

Whipped cream — 2 qts. (each quart yielding 25 spoon- 
fuls). 

Lemonade or fruit punch — 2y2 gallons. 

Frappe or sherbet — 2 to 3 gallons. 

Bouillon — Hot, 2% gallons; jellied, 2iA gallons. 

Ice cream — 2^/^ gallons. 

Ices — IV^ gallons to serve in sherbet glasses. 

Cakes, loaf or layer — 2 to 4. 

Wafers — 5 boxes. 

Bonbons — 3V^ lbs. 

Salted nuts — 3 to 4 lbs. {V2 lb. blanched almonds 
makes 24 dessert spoons, which is equal to 2^^ lbs.). 

Berries — 7 to 10 qts. Sugar for same, 2 lbs. 

Raw oysters — '200 (4 to each person). 

Large oysters in coquilles — TV2 qts. 

Ham — 1 small, or Vz large one. 

Chicken or turkey — Dressed but uncooked, 25 lbs. 

Salad — 1^ gallons. 

Chicken salad — 7 lbs. (to 1 qt. salad, 4 lbs. chicken). 

Lobster salad — 2 lobsters to 1 qt. of salad. 

Potato chips — 4 lbs. 

Olives— To 1 qt. bottle from 200 to 210 olives. 

Rolls — 6 doz. Butter for same, 1 lb. 

Sandwiches — 3 to 6 loaves (1 sandwich loaf cuts 24 
slices). 

Butter — 2 lbs. for 6 loaves bread. (Each loaf requires 
1 cup of butter and paste; of other filling, 1 pt.) 

Meat for croquettes — 3 qts. 

Mixture for timbales or patties — 2 qts. 

Fruit jelly — 5 qts. 

Moulded spice or other jelly — 7 qts. (To 1 qt., 6 or 8 
portions.) 



'T'he basis of a child's diet should be milk — at least 
a quart a day. 



41 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



Do's and Dont's for the Gas Range 

Never black the gas range, and never use kerosene or 
a salted fat when cleaning it. If the range has been neg- 
lected and is in very bad condition, place all the removable 
parts, including burners, in a pan of hot water with plenty 
of washing soda. Scrub each part with a brush until 
clean, dry it thoroughly, then rub with an oiled cloth. Go 
over the entire range with this same oiled cloth, unless 
finished in japan, when a dustless duster would be better. 
Any of the unsalted cooking fata or the floor oil-polishes 
are excellent, 

A few moments' attention two or three times a week 
will keep a gas range in spic and span condition. It may 
be taken apart in a few moments. Begin with the grate; 
lift off both sections and wipe with an oiled cloth. Scrape 
any particles off and scrub with a stiff brush if necessary. 
Next, remove the burners; if solid, brush with a stiff 
brush; if made in two parts, clean the jets in the top sec- 
tion. A brush will clean these jets nicely. Slide out the 
drip tray and wash clean. Never cover this with newspa- 
per; the latter may save cleaning labor, but it may also 
catch fire. Clean the space beneath the burners with the 
oiled cloth, and at the same time wipe off the top and 
framework of the stove. 

Next, remove the broiling pan, grid, and wire racks 
from both ovens, wash and wipe dry. The oven bottom 
plate should be lifted and cleaned occasionally. Wipe out 
every corner and crack of the oven carefully with the oiled 
cloth. The oil will keep it from rusting and act also as an 
excellent cleansing agent. If finished with aluminum this 
will not be necessary until the finish has worn through. 
For any stubborn dirt apply oil liberally to soften it, then 
remove with hot water and washing soda. But remember 
to use no water on a gas range unless absolutely neces- 
sary; then use as little as possible, dry it quickly, and 
finish with an oiling to prevent rusting. 



Happy the mother, healthy the babe nourished 
with milk. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 42 



Household Suggestions 

TO REMOVE STAINS. 

Tea or Coffee — Boiling water over the stain. 

Chocolate — Sprinkle with powdered borax and soak 
well in cold water. Add boiling water. 

Fruit — Dip into Javelle Water and rinse thoroughly, 
or treat like tea stains. 

Ink — Soak two or three hours in coal oil, remove and 
wash in strong soap suds, or rub with lemon juice and 
salt. 

Milk — Wash quickly in cold water. 

Scorch — Hang in sun and try soap solution. 

Grease — Wash in alcohol, kerosene or molasses and 
rub well. 

Paint — Rub with benzine or turpentine. 

Blood — Soak in cold water until stains turn brown, 
then wash in warm water and soap. 

Mildew — Rub lemon juice upon the spots and place in 
the sunshine. Salt may also be used. 

Iron Rust — Spread carefully over bowl in which you 
have placed one-half teaspoon of water. Drop by drop 
apply oxalic acid until the stain lightens; then dip directly 
in water. Repeat if necessary. It is often wise to add 
ammonia to rinsing water, or apply lemon juice and table 
salt and hold over teakettle spout. 

Hot milk is even better than boiling water for remov- 
ing stains. 

Lard will sof1?en and remove automobile grease, and 
can be washed out afterwards. 

Perspiration stains can be rubbed with a mixture of 
soap, lye and ammonia or with a thic~k lather of white soap 
and hung out in strong sun to dry. Afterward rinsing in 
clear water. 



Give the children more milk, and ivatch them 
grow. 



43 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



Pointers 



To restore aluminum ware, which has become black, to 
its original beauty, apply vigorously with a flannel cloth 
ashes moistened with kereosene. 

Milk heated to boiling point is of great value as a 
stimulant in cases of extreme fatigue, mental or bodily. 
It supplies real strength as well as exhiliaration. 

When beating whites of eggs for frosting, etc., add 
one teaspoonful, to each egg, of cold water. This makes it 
beat up stiff, and adds to the quantity as well. A meringue 
for pies or puddings made in this way retains its stiffness 
and is much more satisfactory. 

A HOME REMEDY FOR BURNS 

No housekeeper should be without a bottle of olive 
oil and lime-water for burns. A preparation should al- 
ways be in readiness in case of emergency. Add lime- 
water to oil until a creamy emulsion is formed, and bottle, 
always shaking well before applying. The effect of this 
upon burns is wonderful in its healing and soothing pow- 
ers, and it is equally efficacious for sunburn. 

A CLEANING HINT 

In cleaning clothes with gasoline the ring left around 
the part cleaned can be removed by steaming it over the 
teakettle. 

A GOOD USE FOR ALCOHOL 

Keep a bottle of alcohol in the dining room closet and 
if fruit juice of any kind is accidentally spilled on the 
tablecloth gently rub the spot with a clean cloth saturated 
with alcohol. The spot vanishes almost instantly. It is 
best to do this while the spot is still wet. This method 
may be used while the cloth is on the table, for the alcohol 
evaporates at once, leaving the cloth as fresh as when 
first laundered. Be sure to protect the polished surface of 
the table from the alcohol. 



A quart of milk a day zvill keep the doctor away. 



KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 44 

FOR COOKING OF FRUIT CAKE 

To prevent burning of fruit cake place the batter in 
the cake-tin, greasing and papering in the usual way, then 
place cake-pan in a roaster with the lid on. Put in oven 
and bake the usual number of hours. It will not bum and 
cooks more evenly. 

CLEANING ZINC 

Rub with a flannel cloth moistened with a little kero- 
sene or use Scourine or Dutch Cleanser to take off the 
spots. Then polish with a mixture of vinegar and alum. 

CLEANING STEEL KNIVES AND FORKS 

Scour with powdered bath-brick, using a cork dipped 
in oil or water, and then into the powdered bath-brick. 
Steel knives that are to be packed away for some time 
ought to be very carefully dried before putting away. 

DON'T SCORCH YOUR MILK 

Before putting on milk to boil always rinse out the 
pan with water. This will prevent the milk from burning. 

AMMONIA FOR SHOES 

A few drops of ammonia, put into the water that is 
used for dampening the sponge, when applying cleaner to 
white shoes, leaves them beautifully clean, and takes out 
any kind of a stain. 

The white of a raw egg turned over a bum or scald is 
soothing and cooling. If quickly applied, it will prevent 
inflammation, besides relieving the stinging pain. 

Before putting eggs in hot fat to fry, stir in a spoon- 
ful of flour; and then the fat will not spatter, as the flour 
absorbs any moisture, 

AN INGENIOUS FEEDING DISH 

If you have puppies or other small animals to feed, 
get one of the round cake tins with a tube in the center. 
Drive a pointed stick through the tube into the ground 
and you will have a feeding dish that will not tip over. 

1^0 grow sturdy sons and fair daughters — a diet 
of pure milk. 



45 KLEVER KINKS IN KOOKERY 



TO PRESERVE EGGS 

To one part water glass add ten parts water well 
boiled. Boil the water and let get cold before mixing. Put 
eggs in stone jar and pour mixture over to cover them at 
least one inch. This will thicken and become milky look- 
ing. 

VEGETABLE MEDICINE 

Turnips, onions, cabbage, cauliflower, watercress and 
horseradish contain sulphur. 

Potatoes, salts of potash. 

French beans and lentils give iron. 

Asparagus benefits kidneys. 

Lettuce for tired nerves. 

Celery for rheumatism and neuralgia. / 

Tomatoes stimulate the healthy action of the liver. 

Spinach contains salts of potassium and ii'on. Spe- 
cialists rate this as one of the most precious vegetables. 

Beets and turnips purify the blood. 

Carrots form good blood and purify the skin. 

TO STONE CHERRIES 

A good way to stone cherries is to use a conmion 
steel writing pen, turning the point into a new penholder, 
thus making a little scoop so that it fits the stone and 
removes it without bruising the fruit. 

FOR MENDING BROKEN CHINA 

For mending broken dishes for china of any kind, use 
white paint as you would glue. Let the china stand for 
three or four days after the paint is applied. The dishes 
after that period may be washed in hot water and used 
daily without the least danger of coming apart. 

TO KEEP CATSUP FROM MOLDING 

Just before sealing bottles of catsup or chili sauce 
place a few whole cloves on top to keep it from molding. 



Tour baby's friend — pure milk — a quart a day. 



