
/f/^ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 230 853 8 



TX 165 
.G3 
Copy 1 



B330-1016-5m 



BULLETIN 

OF THE 

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 

1916: No. 49 



SEPTEMBER 1 



A Simple Course in Home Economics 
for Rural Schools 

With Suggestions 

for 

The School Noon Lunch 

By 

MARY E. GEARING 

JESSIE P.* RICH 

M. MINERVA LAWRENCE 

I 

DIVISION OF HOME WELFARE 
DEPARTMENT OF EXTENSION 

Recipes Arranged by M. Minerva Lawrence 




1916 



Published by the University six times a month and entered as 
second-class matter at the postoffice at 
AUSTIN. TEXAS 



\(l 






The benefits of education and of 
useful knowledge, generally diffused 
through a community, are essential 
to the preservation of a free govern- 
ment. 

Sam Houston. 

Cultivated mind Is the guardian 
genius of democracy. . . . It is 
the only dictator that freemen ac- 
knowledge and the only security that 
freemen desire. 

President Mirabeau K. Lamar. 



The schoolhouses dotted here and 
there and everywhere over the great 
expanse of this nation «ill some day 
prove to be the roots of that great 
tree of liberty which will spread for 
the sustenance and protection of all 
mankind. 

Woodrow Wilson. 



D. of D. 
AUG 22 1917 



i 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Boohs: 

Boy Scout Manual. 

Camp Cookers. Roj^al Baking Po^Yder Company. 

Camp and Trail. E. S. White. 

Corn Plants. Sargent. 

Elements of Agriculture. Warner. 

Elements of the Theory and Practice of Cookery. Williams 

& Fisher. 
Food and Dietetics. Hutchinson. 
Food Products. Sherman. 
Story of Ad. Stanley AYaterloo. 
Story of a Grain of Wheat, Edgar, 
The Cave Dweller, K. Dopp. 
The Great Grain Crop of the World (The State-adopted text 

in agriculture). 

Bulletins: 

The Agricultural and IMechanical College of Texas: 

Canning, Preserving, Pickling. B-26. 
Agricultural and Industrial Department, Cotton Bolt Rail- 
way: 

Canning Fruits and Vegetables on the Farm. 

Peanuts. AV. R. Beattie. Agricultural Commissioner. C. B. 
R. R. 
International Harvester Companv, Chicago, 111.: 

The Cold Pack Method. 
Maine Agricultural College, Orone, Maine : 

Corn as Food. 
The University of Texas : 

The Use of the Peanut on the Home Table. No. 13. 

The Home Garden. No. 60. 

Uses of Foods and the Proper Balancing of the Dietary. 
No. 276. 

'^\em\ Making. No. 282. 

Simple Cooking of Wholesome Food for the Farm Home, 
No. 303. 

Problems of the School Luncheon. Parts I and II. No. 339, 

Food for Growing Children. No. 342. 

Cooking Tough Meats. No. 344. 

Domestic Economy in the Schools. No. 326. 



(irt) 



4 Bulletin of tJip. University of Texas 

Farmers' Bulletins, U. S. Department of Agriculture: 

The Potato Culture. No. 35. 
The Sugar Beet. No. 52. 
Care of ^lilk in the Home. No. 63. 
Sugar as Food. No. 93. 

Peas, Beans and Other Legumes as Food. No. 121. 
Eggs and Their Uses as Food. No. 128. 
Cheese ^Making on the Farm. No. 161. 
Corn Growing. No, 199. 
Canned Fruit, Preserves and Jelly. No. 203. 
Cereal Breakfast Foods. No. 249. 
Home Vegetahle Garden. No. 255. 
Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. No. 256. 
The Evaporation of Apples. No. 291. 
Potato and Root Crops. No. 295. 
Corn and Corn Products as Food. No. 298. 
• Canning Vegetables in the Home. No. 359. 
The Use of Milk as Food. No. 363. 
Bread Making. No. 389. 
Seed Corn. No. 415. 
Rice Culture. No. 417. 
Canning Peaches on the Farm. No. 426, 
The Peanut. No. 431, 
Cabbage. No. 433. 

Cheese and Its Economic Uses in the Diet. No. 487. 
Bacteria in Milk. No. 490. 
Uses of Kafir, Milo, and Cow Peas in the Home, No. 559. 



(IV) 



CONTENTS 

(Recipes Listed) 

1. Beverages: Page 

Boiled Coffee 22 

Cocoa 22 

Drip Coffee 22 

Grapefruit Punch 23 

Grape Juice 2 3 

Lemonade 23 

Tea 24 

2. Cake and Cookies: 

Butter Cake 27 

Sponge Cake 27 

3. Candy: 

Bonbons 32 

Chocolate Fudge 33 

Cocoanut Bar ; . . . 3 2 

Cream Mints 32 

Fondant 31 

Peanut Candy 3 3 

Penoche 33 

Velvet Molasses Candy 3 4 

4. Canning: 

Corn 40 

Berries 40 

Beans 41 

Peaches '. 40 

Pears 40 

Tomatoes 41 

5. Cereals: 

Cereal Pudding 44 

Cream of Wheat 45 

Baked "Left Over Pudding" 44 

6. Cheese: 

Cottage Cheese 48 

Cottage Pudding 48 

Cottage Salad 48 

Cheese on Toast 1 49 

Cheese on Toast II 49 

Cheese Fondue 49 

Rice and Cheese 50 

Rice and Nut Rarebit 5 

7. Corn: 

Corn Meal Bread 56 

Corn Meal Mush 57 

Hominy Grits 57 

Pop Corn Balls 57 



(V) 



Page 

8. Eggs: 

Boiled — Soft and Hard 60 

Golden Rod Style 61 

Scalloped 61 

Scrambled 61 

Stuffed 61 

9. Fruit: 

Apple Tapioca 69 

Apple Sauce 70 

Bread and Butter Apple Pudding 70 

Cranberry Sauc€ 70 

Norwegian Prune Pudding 71 

Scalloped Apples 71 

Stewed Apricots 71 

Stewed Prunes 71 

Steamed Cranberry Pudding 7 2 

10. Frozen Desserts: ' 

Custard Ice Cream 76 

Junket Cream 76 

Lemon Ice 77 

Milk Sherbet 77 

Vanilla Ice Cream (Philadelphia) 77 

11. Irish Potato: 

Baked 82 

Boiled 83 

Creamed 83 

Mashed 84 

Picnic Baked Potatoes 84 

Potato Soup 84 

Waldorf 83 

12. I^egunies ( Poas. Beans, Lentils) 

Boston Baked Beans 87 

Lentil Loaf 87 

Split Pea Soup 88 

13. Meat: 

Beef Stew 98 

Flank Steak 99 

Hamburg Steak 99 

Meat Loaf 100 

Swiss Steak 100 

14. Milk: 

Caramel Baked Custard. 104 

Caramel Junket 105 

Corn Chowder 105 

Tapioca Custard Pudding 106 

15. Peanuts: 

Chops 110 

Sandwiches Ill 

Soup Ill 

16. Planning and Serving a Dinner 112 

(VI) 



Page 

17. Puddinp; Sauces: 

Caramel 115 

Chocolate 116 

Hard .- ng 

Foamy 116 

Fruit 116 

Lemon 117 

Soft Custard 117 

Vanilla 117 

18. Quick Breads: 

Bakinp: Powder Biscuits 121 

Kafir MufTins 121 

Sour Milk Biscuits 122 

Sour .Milk Corn Bread 122 

19. Rice: 

Chinese i26 

Poor Man's Rice Pudding 126 

Rice and Cheese 127 

Steamed 127 

Turkish Pilaf 128 

20. Salads 129 

21. Salad Dressings: 

Boil-ed, Milk 129 

Boiled, Cream 130 

Mayonnaise 130 

Pineapple 130 

Sour Cream 131^ 

22. Soups and Chowders: 

Com 133 

Corn Chowder ' ' ' 133 

Cream of Tomato . . . . 134 

Bean '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. 134 

Bean and Tomato I34 

Noodles 135 

Potato J 35 

Stock for Meat | 136 

23. The Out-of-Door Picnic: 

Apple Jelly Cake 140 

Baked Potatoes 141 

Broiled Meat 141 

Cheese Sandwiches [ 142 

Egg Sandwiches 142 

Ginger Bread 142 

Jelly Sandwiches '...'.'.'. 141 

Meat Sandwiches [ 141 

Sponge Cake 143 

24. Table Setting and Serving 144 



(vn) 



Page 

25, Vegetables: 

Creamed Carrots 152 

Scalloped Apples 152 

Scalloped Cabbage 153 

Scalloped Corn 153 

Scalloped Tomatoes 154 

Scalloped Tomatoes with Rice and Cheese 153 

' Scalloped Potatoes 154 

White Sauce for Veg-etables 154 

26. Yeast Breads: 

Coffee Cake 159 

Home-Made Yeast Cake 1 160 

Home-Made Y-east Cake II 160 

Milk and Water Bread 160 

Potato Bread , 161 

Parker House Rolls 161 



(viii) 



INTRODUCTION. 

The importance of efficient training for girls in home-mak- 
ing has become generally recognized. There is hardly a well 
organized public school system in any of our larger towns 
which doeS' not offer some training in home economics. The 
need of this kind of training is quite as great in the rural 
schools, but owng to the expense attached to installing and 
maintaining a department of home economics, it is usually 
thought to be beyond tlie financial means of the average school 
of one or two rooms. The lessons in this bulletin have been 
prepared especially to meet the needs of the small schools in 
which a special teacher and expensive equipment are not as 
yet possible. They are not ofl'ered as a substitute for a reg- 
ular course in home economics under a specially trained 
teacher. On the contrary, it 'is hoped that their very limita- 
tions will be an incentive in securing, as soon as the finances 
of the school will permit, a more efficient equipment and a 
trained teacher; for the country girl should have the same 
thorough training in all phases of home-making wliich the 
city girls are receiving in well established courses. Until such 
training can be secured for the smaller schools as well, this 
simple couree is offered as a substitute. The success of this 
course will depend largely upon the teacher. If she is earnest 
in her desire to make the work of real educational value, ^si^- 
must study the bulletin carefully, and do a* much of the sug- 
gested reading as possible. It is especially recommended that 
she obtain and study carefully all of the bulletins listed. The 
bulletins are free, and there is no reason why any teacher should 
fail to have them. It is essential that she familiarize herself 
with the contents of each lesson and present it with the same 
care and thoroughness which she gives to other subjects of the 
curriculum. Care should be taken, also, to relate this subject, 
wherever possible, to other school studies. This will do much 
to rid the child's mind of the generally prevailing idea that 
all work relatino- to home-making is menial, and hence to be 
sliirked and avoided. The teacher should be able to create a 
real appreciation of the educational value of household work 



10 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

ill all of its phases, and 'thus place the study of home-making 
on the same plane as the other subjects in the school curricu- 
lum. Whenever possible, the teacher should practice the reci- 
pes at home before giving them to the pupil. If the course is 
presented as planned, the pupils will have an intelligent under- 
standing of the composition of foods, their value and uses in 
the body, and the proper combinations and amounts necessary 
for a well-balanced diet. They will also be able to prepare and 
serve wholesome and attractive dishes at the minimum expendi- 
ture of time, labor, and money. 

Not less than one hour and a half one afternoon in the week 
should be allowed for each lesson. Probably the most con- 
venient hour would be on Friday afternoon during the last 
hour of school, and continuing a half hour after the dismissal 
of other pupils. 

Not more than two dishes should be prepared at any lesson, 
and the children must, of necessity, work in groups in prepar- 
ing them. The foods to be prepared should be discussed thor- 
oughly, according to the plans outlined in the bulletin. Defi- 
nite direction for the work should be given. Each pupil must 
be assigned a definite task and held responsible for it. It is 
important that the cleaning up be as thorough and systematic 
as the preparation of the food. All left-over food and garb- 
age should be disposed of in a sanitary way at the end of the 
lesson, and dishes and utensils thoroughly cleansed and put 
in their proper places. 

• The problem of providing the necessary food materials will 
have to be solved by each individual school. There are many 
wa.vs and means of doing this. In some schools, the trustees 
will be able to allow a definite sum for this purpose. Mothers' 
Clubs frequently take it upon themselves to see that the proper 
supplies are forthcoming. The children may bring them from 
home, certain ones being assigned certain kinds and amounts. 
In the countr}', M^here egss, butter, milk and vegetables are 
plentiful, this will not entail a great hardship upon any one 
fnmily. Some parents may prefer to contribute a small amount 
of cash, and this can be used to purchase such necessary staples 
as flour, sugar, salt, etc. A successful box supper has been 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 11 

known to furnish sufficient funds and supplies for an entire 
year. 

The syllabus, "Teaching Domestic Economy in the Secondary 
Schools," should be consulted. This syllabus is published by 
the University of Texas, and a copy may be had free of charge 
upon application to the School of Home Economics of the Uni- 
versity. 



Cooking Equipment for the One-Room Rural School. 

Two equipments are listed below, including average prices. 
The first is about as simple a one as would be practicable. With 
this one, the work must, of necessity, be limited. 

The tables, cupboards, any necessary benches, etc., can be 
made by the boys of the school. Often the assistance of an 
interested carpenter in the district can be secured, and his 
services donated. The lumber necessary for the tables and such 
equipment may properly be donated also. "Where the whole 
or part of a comfortable room is available for this work, it 
allows of the use of a more adequate equipment. Boxes with 
curtains made by the girls serve as a very satisfactory place 
for the utensils, serving dishes, and food supplies. 

Equipment No. 1, Cost $6.50. 

Used on common heating stove for all cooking, except baking : 

1 6-quart granite kettle, with bail and closely fitting lid. .$0.50 

1 4-quart double boiler (granite ware) 90 

1 2-quart mixing bowl 20 

1 No. 8 iron skillet 35 

1 1-quart. granite sauce pan 15 

1 3-quart sranite sauce pan 25 

1 "Wire strainer 15 

1 Large-handled basting spoon (iron) 10 

1 Table spoon 05 

2 Tea-spoons 05 

1 Case knife and fork 10 

1 Paring knife 50 

1 Butcher knife 50 

1 Spatula V 25 

1 Long-handled granite dipper 15 

1 Combination cork screw and can opener 10 

2 Tin measuring cups 10 

2 Granite dish pans 1.10 

6 Quart glass jars 40 

6 Jelly glasses 15 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 



U 



1 Dover etyg beater 1^ 

1 Tea kettle '^^ 

Total ^6.50 

Any one of the following receptacles may be used satisfact- 
orily for making a tireless cooker: 

One candy bucket (for a small cooker). 
Ninety-pound soda cracker box. 
Cast-off trunk (.if perfectly whole). 

Equipment No. 2, Cost $18.90 

This added to Equipment No. 1 makes all types of cooking 
possible : 

1 Two-burner wick oil stove ^ 8.50 

1 Portable oven • • ^-^^ 

1 Bread board ^" 

3 Bread pans ^^ 

1 Rolling pin ^'^ 

1 Meat chopper ^—^ 

on 

1 Set of layer cake pans '^" 

1 Earthen baking dish • • -'^ 

1 Nest of bowls (4) ^^ 

1 Sheet iron skillet ^^ 

1 Pair of Family Scales •• l-2'^ 

1 Quart measure ^ 

1 Flour sifter or fine mesh strainer • • -0 

1 Wire egg beater ^^ 

on 

2 Parincr knives -" 

1 Potato masher _ 

1 Vegetable brush ^'^ 

1 Garbage can ^^ 

Total $18.90 

Note: This equipment includes a two-burner oil stove. This 
will dispense with the use of the school room heating stove. 



14 Bulletin of the University of T cocas 

So much more varied and efficient work can be accomplished 
with this equipment that it will more than justify the additional 
cost. 

The Noon Lunch 

A practical application of the work may be made in solving 
the problem of the noon lunch. The noon lunch in rural schools 
should be used for the betterment of the pupils. In the dis- 
tricts where the majority of the pupils remain at the building 
durincr the noon period, an excellent opportunity is offered for 
a half hour of enjoyment and social training. A hot, nutritious 
dish, one which has been previously prepared in class work, may 
be prepared each da.y by alternating groups of girls and served 
at the noon hour lo all pupils in the school. Boys as well as 
the girls should be iriven the privilege to assist in the cooking 
and serving of the lunch. 

TJisTies Suitable for the Xoon Lunch. 

Baked ^Npples. 
Baked Beans. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Boiled Eggs. 
Cheese Fondue. 
Cocoa. 

Creamed or Buttered Vcjolables. 

Cabbage. Noodles. 

Carrots. Peas. 

Corn. Potatoes. 

Macaroni. Spaghetti. , 

Sandwiches. 

Scalloped Dishes. 

Apples. Tomatoes. 

Corn. Tomatoes, Rice and Cheese. 

Potatoes. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 15 



Soups and Chowders. 




Corn. 


Potatoes. 


Bean. 


Meat. 


Bean and Tomato. 


Tomatoes. 



White Sauce for Vegetables. 

Noon Luncli Equipment. 

Domestic Science Equipment, Xo. 1 $ 6.50 

A two-burner wick oil stove 8.50 

A portable oven 3.50 

Total $18.50 

In addition tO' the above, the following additional utensils 
would give a very satisfactory and practical working equip- 
ment for any one or two-room school: 

2 kettles, with covers — for making cocoa or soup. 

2 or 4 baking pans — for making scalloped dishes and baked 
apples. 

Note: These utensils should be sufficiently large to hold 
enough food to serve the entire number of pupils. 

The expense and cost of the equipment necessary for serving 
the noon lunch depends, ordinarily, upon the financial condi- 
tion of the district. If the parents, school board, pupils and 
teacher or teachers are equally in sympathy with the problem, 
it wi!l be an easy matter to secure a satisfactory equipment. If 
alsolutely necessary, it may be very simple and inexpensive. 
However, better results and more pleasure will be obtained if 
the item of expense is not too limited. The following dishes 
for serving the one dish at school are necessary : One oatmeal 
bowl, a china cup, and a teaspoon. These may be furnished 
either by each pupil or by the school, kept at the school house, 
or carried to and from the school in the lunch, baskets. If they 
are left at the school building, it would necessitate extra care 
upon the part of the teacher, but it would be a convenience to 
each child. 



16 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Suggested Order of Lessons 

The list of lessons have been arranged alphabetically without 
regard to sequence. It is desirable that lessons from the fol- 
lowing lists should be given first: Beverages, Irish. Potato, 
Table Setting and Serving, Fruit, Cereals, ]\lilk, Cheese, Rice, 
Eggs, Vegetables, and Meat. These lessons are more simple 
and more fundamental. The work on, serving, if presented 
toward the first of the course, adds interest to the practical 
cooking lessons and gives a knowledge A^hich may not only be 
a real help in the home from day to day, but also a real pleasure 
to the mother as well as the daughter. In giving the bread 
lessons, the quick bread lesson should precede the yeast bread 
lesson. The order in which the others are given will depend 
upon the seasons and available food supplies. For example, if 
a beef is slaughtered in the neighborhood, a good, cut might be 
donated to the school. This would necessitate a meat lesson at 
once. Similarly, other lessons may be taken up as the timeli- 
ness of circumstances may suggest. 

Suggested Guide for the' Selection and Combination of Recipes. 

Choose foods and food materials which are in season, as far 
as possible and practicable. 

If one recipe calls for only the yolk of eggs, plan the second 
recipe so a.s to use the whites, unless they can be easily kept 
over. 

Choose combinations which are pleasing, and which can easily 
be prepared at the same time. 

Suggested Combined Recipes and Consecutive Practical Lessons 

1. Steamed Rice- and Creamed Carrots. 

2. Rice Nut Rarebit and Scalloped Cabbage. 

Table op "Weights and Measures 

All measurements are level. A cupful is all that a cup will 
hold. To measure a tablespoon, fill the spoon with the material 
to be measured, and then level with the dull edge of a kitchen 
knife. Divnde with knife lengthwise for half spoonful; divide 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 17 

halves crosswise for qnartere, and quarters crosswise for- 
eights. 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

2 cups 1 pir-t 

- pints 1 quart 

4 tablespoons flovir 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons butter 1 ounce 

2 cups solid, e. g. meat, butter, 

granulated sugar 1 pound 

4 cups flour 1 pound 

41/^ cups graham flour 1 pound 

2 2-3 cups oatmeal 1 pound 

2 2-3 cups cornmeal 1 pound 

1% cups rice 1 pound 

41/2 cups coffee 1 pound 

8-9 eggs 1 pound 

1 square Baker's chocolate 1 ounce 

1 egg, beaten about 3 tablespoons 

Juice 1 lemon alwut 3 tablespoons 

Abbreviations 

C— Cup. f. 0-. few grains, less than i/4t^ 

T— tablespoon. f. d.— few drops, 

t — teaspoon. m — minute, 

s-^cant hr.— hour, 
h — heaping 



■2~ F.rou. 



18 



Bulletin of the University of Texas 



MONTHLY REPORT 

RURAL SCHOOL NOON LUNCH 
Extension Department, Home Welfare Division 

The Universitv of Texas 



Name of school 

Location of school 

Name of teacher 

Date of organization 
Number served 



Bovs 


1st Week. 


2nd Week. 


3rd Week. 


4th Week. 


-Girls 










Dishes served 
INIonday 














i 




Tuesday 












j 




W^ednesday 




I 








I 




Thursday 




...1 






. ..j I _ 


Friday | 


J 1 




I 




- 



Remarks 



Number of report- 
Date 



Pupil Assistant. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 



19 



MONTHLY REPORT 

RURAL SCHOOL DOMESTIC SCIENCE CLASS 
Extension Department, Home Welfare Division 

Tlie University of Texas 

Name of school 

Location of school 

Name of teacher 

Date of organization 

Number or name of class 



Number enrolled 


in class 




Boys. 

I-- 


Girls. 


Dishes prepared 


1st AVeek. 


2nd Week. 


3rd Week. 


4th Week. 

































































Remarks 



Number of report- 
Date 



Pupil Assistant. 



BEVERAGES 

Subject ^Iatter 

A beverage is any liquid which satisfies the thirst and re 
freshes or stimulates the body. It has little or no food value, 
does not build muscle or tissue ; neither does it give heat 
to the body. The principle beverage is water, and, while 
strictly speaking, water is not a food, it is a part of all lx)dy 
tissue. In fact, two-thirds of the weight of the body is water. 
Water forms a part of nearly all of our foods, and the body 
could live much longer without food than without water. 

"Water is easily contaminated by dirt and disease germs. 
Typhoid fever, one of our most contagious disease, is frequently 
contracted by drinking impure water. Therefore, greatest care 
should be taken to insure a safe and dean watei- supply. 

Tea, eolfee, and cocoa arc, in general, very popular 
beverages. They are liked for their pleasant flavors and stimu- 
lating quaJities. Tea and coft'ee should not be taken by the 
young people ; for, owing to their stimulating qualities, they are 
likely to have a bad effect upon the nerves of the young people. 
Cocoa is an excellent bevm-age for young people, and when 
made with milk, it becomes a food. 

A small amount of tea is grown in this country in Soutli 
Carolina, but with that exception, our teas, coffees, and cocoa 
are all imported. 

It is much better to purchase coffee in the bean and grind it 
as it is used.. It retains its flavor longer, and there is less 
danger of adulteration. It is usually cheaper when purchased 
in this way than when it is ground and put up in cans with 
fancy labels. Coffee substitutes are made of roasted and ground 
grains and even browned and ground bread crumbs. 

Lemonade is another most refreshing beverage, especially on 
a hot summer day. 

Grape juice is also most refreshing and has some nutritive 
value, as well. With the abundance of wild grapes to be found 
in Texas, a family could easily put up all the grape juice it 
needs at very little cost. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 21 

Lesson Plan. 
Teacher's Aim: 

To teach the pupils how — 
To tell when water is boiling; 
To make good tea, coffee, and cocoa. 

Pupils' Aim: 

To learn to prej)are good licverages. 

Suggested Questions. 

Do you know the source of your drinking water at home? 

How can contaminated water he made safe for drinking? 

What is the value of water to the body? 

Why is cocoa better for young people than tea or coffee? 

How can you tell when water boils? 

Why should tea not be l)oiled? 

What is the result of long boiling of coffee? 

Related Subjects. 
Physiology : 

The effect of tea and coffee upon the nervous system. 

Geography: 

The production and manufacture of tea, coffee, and cocoa. 

Discuss the climate necessary for each. 

Why does the United States not produce these commodities? 

History : 

Review the Boston Tea Party. 

English : 

Discuss the Coffee Houses in English Literature. 



22 Bulleti)i of the University of Texas 

Recipes. 

Boiled Coffee. 
Proportions : 

1 C. coffee — ^finely ground; add 
1 egg — stir well; dilute with 
% C. cold water; add 
6 C. boiling water. 

Boil three minutes ; set coffee where it will not boil, 
and allow to stand for ten minutes. 

Serve at once. 

Note: If not boiled, coffee is cloudy. If boiled too long, tannic 
acid is developed. The spout of the coffee pot should be covered or 
stuffed with soft paper to prevent the escape of fragrant aromas. 
Stir, and pour some of the coffee into a cup, in order to be sure that 
the spout is free from grounds. If necessary to clear, add one-half 
cup cold water. It, being heavier than the hot .water, sinks to the 
bottom, carrying the grounds with it. 

Where strict economy is necessary, the egg may be omitted, or only 
the shells of the eggs used. The shells from three eggs are sufficient 
to clear one cup of coffee grounds. 

It is very essential to scald the coffee pot always before using. 

Drip Coffee. 

Use proportions given for Boiled Coffee. 
Place finely ground coffee in strainer of pot. 
Add boiling water gradually. 

Set in warm place; allow to filter. If desired strong, re- 
filter. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 

Cocoa. 

1 1/2 T. cocoa. 

2 T. sugar, 
f. g. salt. 

Mix, add 
1/2 C. boiling water to make a paste, then 
11/2 C, boiling water. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 23 

Simmer 10 m., add 
2 C. scalded milk, 
f. d. vanilla. 

Serve at once. 

Note: If scum forms on top, beat with Dover egg beater. This 
process is called "milling." 
Proportion — for each person 
1 t. cocoa. ^A C. milk. 

1 t. sugar. 1/4 C. water. 

Grape Fruit Punch. 

Boil— 

1 qt. cold water and 

2 C. sugar 20 m.; add 

1 C. orange jnice, 

V2 C. grape fruit juice, 

2 C. chopped pineapple. 

Dilute with ice water to suit taste. "'^ 

Grape Juice. 

Crush grapes; 

Cook, until skins burst, in just enough water to keep them 
from burning. 

Turn into cheese cloth bag— made for the purpose; drain 
until perfectly drj'. 

Heat juice to boiling point: add sufficient sugar to suit taste; 
then bring to boiling point again. 

Pour into sterilized bottles ; set sterilized corks in place ; allow 
bottles to become cold ; then push the corks in securely. If the 
juice is to be kept lor some time, drop melted paraffin around 
the corks. 

Lemonade. 

Boil— 

1 C. sugar; 

2 C. water, 12 m. ; add 
1^8 C. lemon juice. 

Cool ; dilute with ice water to suit taste. 

Note: Lemon syrup may be bottled and kept on hand to be used 
as needed. 



24 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Tea. 
Proportions: 

3 t. of tea. 

2 C. of boiling- water. 
Scald teapot. 

Pour boiling water over tea. 

Let stand in a warm place until the desired 
r strength — not longer than five minutes. 

Strain, and serve immediately. 

Note: Tea may be served with sugar, cream, sliced lemon, alone, 
or in combination, except lemon and cream. 

Ice Ten. 
Proportions : 

4 t. tea, and 

2 C. boiling water. 

Follow recipe for making Tea. 

Strain into glasses one-third full of cracked ice. 

Sweeten to taste, and add slice of lemon to each 

glass of tea. 
Flavor is retained much better if the tea is chilled 

quickly. 



CAKES AND COOKIES. 

Subject Matter. 

The love of sweets amoii2' the Araerioan people is proverbial. 
One of our favorite sweets is cake. It is served in the majority 
of homes. Cake is almost as much a part of the re^ilar dietary 
as bread. 

Cakes, o^enerally speakino:, may be classified under two heads, 
i. e. those made with butter and those made without. We usually 
call these two classes sponore cakes and butter cakes. When 
one has become familiar with the standard proportions for 
each, an almost indefinite variety may be made by addino- dif- 
ferent flavors, fruits, nuts, etc. Only cjood materials should 
be used in cake makhi». A poor orade of flour, heavy, sioggy 
sugrar or a cheap baking- powder may be responsible for a poor 
cake no matter how carefully it may be made and baked. 

Cake should be carefully mixed and as carefully baked. 
Many good cakes are spoiled in the baking. Small cakes and 
cookies should bake in a quicker oven than loaf cake. An oven 
which will turn a piece of writing paper light brown in three 
minutes is about the right temperature for small cakes, and 
about the same temperature is desirable for layer cakes. For 
loaf cake, a piece of paper should brown in about five minutes. 
Sponge cake should be baked in a very moderate oven. 

A cake is done when it rebounds to the touch on top, and it 
shrinks well from the sides of the pan. 

It is a mistake to think that butter is the only fat which 
will make good cake. Any of the standard cotton-seed fat 
preparations on the market will make an excellent cake and at 
much less cost than when butter is used. 

Some of the varieties which may be made from a good cup 
cake recipe are : 

Spice cake — by the addition of spices. 

Plum cake — by the addition of raisins. 

Light fruit cake — by the addition of raisins, currants and 
spices. 



26 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Nut Loaf — by the addition of pecans, hickory nuts or wal- 
nuts. 

A numberless variety of layer cakes can be made from the 
same recipe. 

Cookies may be made of the same recipe by addins: more 
shortening and sufficient flour to make a soft dough which can 
be rolled out and cut into different shapes. If the batter 
is divided before it is too stiff, the cookies may be varied in 
much the same way as the cake recipe. Grated chocolate may 
be added to a part, fruits and spices to another part, nuts to 
still another, and .so on. 

References. 

Any good recipe boolc. 

Lesson Plan. 
Teacher's Aim : 

To teach the making of inexpensive, wholesome cakes. 

Pupil's Aim: 
To learn to make cake. 

Suggested Questions. 

Why should cake not be eaten as often as bread? 

Why are very rich cakes hard to digest? 

What makes cakes light? 

AVhat are the advantages of home-made cakes over baker's 
cakes ? 

Related Subjects 
MatJiematics: 

Compute the cost of a dozen cookies made in class. Com- 
pare with the cost of baker's cookies. 

English: 

Write a compo,sition on the many forms of cakes and tarts 
you have read of; for example, the cakes good King Alfred 
let fall into the fire. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 27 

Geography : 

Make a list of the states and countries contributing materials 
for the Christmas Fruit Cake. 

"Recipes 
Butter Cake 

^Vs T. shortening-cream, then add gradually 

1 C. sugar, — 

2 egg yolks — well beaten 
% C. milk 

1 t. vanilla. 

i\Iix and sift the following ingredients : 
]3/4 C. flour I 

2-Vl' t. baking powder 
1/4 t. salt. 

Combine the two mixtures, then fold in 2 egg whites 
— beaten stiff and dry. 

Bake in layers or in individual pans. 

Sponge Cake 
First mixture: 

1 C. flour 
f. g. salt 

Sift together. • 

Second mixture: 

Yolks 6 eggs— beat until thick and lemon colored. Add 

gradually. 
1 C. sugar. 

Continue beating until all is added. 



28 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Third mixture: 

Whit&s 2 eggs — beat until stiff and dry, add 
1 T. lemon juice, 
Grated rind I/2 lemon. 

Combine the three mixtures, carefully blend — use 

the cutting and folding motion. 
Bake in moderately slow oven until the cake re- 
sponds to the touch. Use an angel cake pan or 
a deep narrow one in which to bake the batter. 

Note: Sponge cake contains no leavening agent, but is made light 
by the quantity of air beaten into both yolks and whites of the eggs 
and the expansion of the steam while baking. 

Failure in angel cake or sponge cake is usually due to baking 
either in too slow an oven, or too hot a one. 



CANDY 
Subject Matter 

As candy is prepared from sugar, a study of this food pro- 
duct is of value. 

Sugar is made from the sugar cane and the sugar beet. It 
was formerly regarded as a condiment and valued chiefly for 
its pleasant taste. If this had been its only value it might, in 
time, have been replaced by other sweet tasting substances 
which are not foods; but the food value of sugar has been fully 
established. It is a highly concentrated food, and its use in 
the dietary is limited. 

Sugar, like starch, furnishes heat and energy to the body. 
The question naturally arises. How does the sugar of our food 
differ from starch as a source of the energv'? '"The fact that 
we have in this manufactured article practically the same sub- 
stance as that which results from the digestion of starch as found 
in vegetable foods at once suggests its substitution for starch 
to the advantage of the system, since it does not burden the di- 
gestive tract and less force is required for its digestion. To 
decide this question, much careful laboratory work has been 
carried on since 1893, when Mosso, an Italian investigator, first 
explained the influence of cane sugar in lessening fatigue. He 
found, as a result, that sugar in the food, in not too great quan- 
tities, and not too concentrated, lessens or delays fatigue and in- 
creases working power." Rubner suggested that IG to 18 ounces 
of .starch might be digested by an adult without difficulty, while 
only four or six ounces of sugar are suitable in a well planned 
dietary. 

What is true of sugar is equally true of candy. It should 
not be eaten before meals, as it is more easily assimilated when 
eaten with other materials which dilute it and give it the neces- 
sary bulk. Give candy to children as a dessert at luncheon time, 
and require the child to drink one glass of water for each piece 
of candy he consumes. The home-made pure sugar candies are 
the best. The cheap highly colored candies should never be 
eaten. 



30 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

The different stages of sugar cookery in candy making are 
soft ball, hard ball, crack, hard crack. 

The sugar and water boiled together reaches the soft boil 
stage when a portion dropped into cold water can be gathered 
up with the fingers into a soft ball. 

The hard ball stage is reached when the portion tested forms 
a lirm, compact ball. 

At the crack degree, the portion tested becomes slightly brittle, 
and can no longer be molded into a ball. In other words, it is 
the point at which the candy first becomes "snappy." 

The hard crack is the stage at which the portion tested be- 
comes hard and brittle. 

After the hard crack stage is passed, the syrup gradually 
changes color, becoming first light yellow, deep yellow, brown, 
and finally a deep red. These represent the different stages of 
caramelization. 

At the first stage the sugar has lost its sweet taste, and is used 
for coloring soups and gravies. 

At the intermediate stage it is used for flavoring ice creams 
and custards. 

In most candies the object is to prevent the recrystallization of 
the sugar, or to insure its formation in minute crystals, that 
the candy may be creamy. This may be brought about by the 
inverting of a portioji of the sugar; first, either by long boiling, 
with the addition of at least half as much liquid as sugar, or by 
the addition of an acid, as vinegar, acetic acid, lemon .juice, or 
cream of tartar (an acid salt) ; second, by melting the sugar at 
a high temperature with no addition of liquid, — (caramelize). 

References 

Farmers' Bulletin: "Sugar as Food," No. 93; "The Sugar 
Beet," No. 52. 

Any good cook book, Candy Making. 

Lesson Plan 

Teacher's aim: 

To teach the value of susrar. To make good candy. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 31 

Pupil's aim: 

To study the value of candy and learn how to make it. 

Suggested Questions 

What food do yon like best? Why? 
ITow is sngar nsed in the dietary? 
Are there any dang-ers in eating too much sugar? 
When should candy be eaten? 

Why is it better to eat home-made candies in preference to 
the store products? 

Related Subjects 
Mathematics: 

Find the cost of one pound of peanut brittle and one pound 
of fudge. Compare the price of these candies with the price 
of those bought at the confectioners. 

Geography : 

Study the geographic distribution of the areas of sugar cane, 
and of beet production. Study the steps in the manufacture of 
sugar. If possible, visit a sugar-making plant. 

English: 

Write up notebooks and recipes. Learn to spell and define 
all new words used in this lesson. 

Recipes 

Fondant 
5 C. (;2V2 lbs.) sugar 
21/2 C. water 
% t. cream of tartar. 

Place the ingredients in a sauce pan and stir until dissolved. 
Boil without stirring to the soft ball stage if soft fondant is de- 
sired. To prevent crystallization, either boil for the first ten 
minutes with the cover on, or from time to time wash down the 



32 Bulletin of tlic University of Texus 

sides of the pan with a swab of cloth wet in hot water. When 
done,, pour on an oiled platter and cool until it can be handled. 
Beat with a knife or wooden spoon until creamy, then gather 
into the hands and knead until soft and velvety. 

Note: Fondant may be stored in a covered stone jar and used as 
desired. Keep covered with a damp cloth. 

Cream Mints 

Melt fondant over hot water, flavor with a few drops of oil of 
peppermint, winterg-reen, clove, cinnamon, or orange, and color 
if desired. Drop from a spoon on oiled paper. 

Bonbons 

Centers. Prepare centers for the bonbons by adding to the 
cold fondant chopped nuts, candied fruit, or any coloring or 
flavoring desired, and forming this into balls. Or, make the 
centers in the following way: Grate the rind from an orange, 
add two tablespoonfuls orange juice and enough confectioner's 
sugar to make a stifif mixture. ]Make into tiny balls, and drop 
on sugared plates. Set away to harden before using. Lemon 
juice and rind, or a tablespoonful of strained raspberry jam may 
be substituted for the orange. Xuts, candied cherries, or white 
grapes may also be used as centers. 

Covering. Melt fondant ovei* hot water, and add any color- 
ing or flavoring desired. Dip the centers by using a two-tined 
fork, or a chocolate cream dipper^ and drop them upon a paper 
sprinkled lightly with confectioner's sugar. A second dipping 
may be necessary to give proper shape and size. 

Note: Half of a nut or a piece of candied fruit may be placed upon 
the top of the bonbon before the covering hardens. 

Cocoa nut Bar 

1 C. melted fondant 

14 C. shredded cocoanut 

Beat together. 

Turn into a buttered pan. 

Mark off in bars the desired size. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 3g 

Chocolaic Fudge 
2 C. sugar 

2 squares Baker's clioeolato — cut into small pieces. 
1 C. milk. 
1 T. butter. 

Boil the above ingredients to the soft ball stage 
(1141/2° C. or 238° F.) 

Flavor with 
1/^ t. vanilla. 

When cool beat until it begins to stiffen. 

Pour into buttered pans; mark into squares. 

Peanut Candy 

1 C. sugar — heat in a hot oven over a flame (stirring eon- 

stantly) until melted. Add 
Yz C. chopped peanuts. 

Mix thoroughl,y — spread on an unbuttered pan. 

Mark into squares at once. 

Penoclic 

1 C. milk. 

2. C. light brown sugar. 

1. T. butter. 

Follow directions given for Chocolate Fudge. 

Remove from flame. Add 
14 C. nut meats. 
1 t. vanilla. 



3— EcOD. 



34 BuJlcti)i of the Universihj of Texas 

Velvet Molasses Candii. 

1 C. molasses. 
3 C. sugar. 
1 C. boiliiiL' wator. 
3 T, vinegar. 

Cook these ingredietits until the boiling point is 
reached. Add 
i/o t- cream of tartar. 

Continue cooking until mixture is brittle when 
dropped into told water (132° C. or 270° F.) 

Add just before removing 
i/o C. butter. 
Va t. soda. 

Pour into buttered pans, let stand until cool enough 
to handle. Add while i)ulling 
1 t. vanilla. 

Cut into sei'ving pieces, use a pair of scissors. 



CANNING 

Subject INTatter 

Canning of Fruits and Vegetahlcs. ^Much has beeen written 
on the proper method of canning fruits and vegetables, but our 
best authority comes from the srovernment. . Government ex- 
perts have made a very careful study and investigation of this 
subject, and their report is the most scientific and reliable ma- 
terial that we have. In their l)ulletins (see the list) the subject 
is carefully discussed. The followino; material is largely taken 
from these bulletins. 

Tlie Meaning of Sterilization. The secret of canning lies in 
complete sterilization. The air we breathe, the water we drink, 
all fruits and vegetables, contain minute forms of life which 
we call bacteria or germs. These germs are practically the sole 
cause of decomposition. The exclusion of air from canned ar- 
ticles, which Avas formerly supposed to be so important, is un- 
necessary, provided the air is sterile or free from germs. 

Germs which cause decay may be divided into tl'i'ce ^lasses: 
yeast, mold, and bacteria. All of these are miscrosc/opic plants 
of a very low order, and live on plants of a higher order. Every 
housewife is familial' with the yeast plant. It thrives in sub- 
stances containing sugar and it is the wild yeast that causes a 
large part of the difficulty in canning fruits. However, yeasts 
are easily killed, so that fruits are easier to can than vegetables. 
The molds, as a general rule, are likely to attack jellies and pre- 
serves, but these are easily killed. The bacteria are the class 
of microscopic plants which we have to deal with in the canning 
of vegetables and are the hardest to kill. 

Bacteria are more resistant to heat than any of these other 
minute plants. They reproduce themselves with amazing rapidity 
and by two processes. The bacteria either divides itself into 
two parts, thus making two where one existed before, or repro- 
duces itself by spores. These spores may be compared to seeds 
of a plant, and they are the chief difficulty in canning. The 
parent bacteria is readily killed at the boiling temperature, but 
the spores retain their vitality for a long time even at that tern- 



36 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

peratnre. and upon coolintr may oerminate and produce new 
bacteria. Tn oi'der to completely sterilize a vegetable we must 
cook it for a long time (about four or five hours) or for two 
or three days in succession. The process of boiling upon suc- 
cessive days is the one that is 8m.i)loyed in scientific work and 
is much to be preferred. It is called the intermittent method 
of canning, or the method of fractional sterilization, and is the 
one Avhich is thoroughly recommended by all persons interested 
in vegetable canning. By this method any vegetable may be 
canned with success. Fruit may also be canned by this method, 
but the one day cooking is sufficient for fruits. Also the open 
kettle method is often used. Here the fruits are cooked in a 
syrup, put into sterilized cans, sealed and put away in a cool 
place. 

The kind of jars. The first requisite for successful canning 
is a gootl jar. Glass is the most satisfactory. However, tin cans 
which are lacquered on the inside to prevent the juice from 
comiuiT into contact with the tin, are used with success in many 
factory canning plants. 

There are many kinds of good glass jars pn the market. The 
most satisfactory jar is that having a wide mouth, a glass top, 
and a wire spring to hold this top in place. This jar requires a 
rubber put on before the glass cover is placed. If the rubbers 
are defective the food will spoil (ferment). It is poor economy 
to buy cheap rubbers or use them a second time. 

The canning outfit. There are many simple home canners on 
the market which are more or less convenient for putting up a 
mediiun large quantity of fmit and vegetables in the home. 
However, the home-made canner is very satisfactory. This can- 
ner is made by taking a large wash boiler, placing in the bottom 
a board in which several 1-inch holes have been bored. This 
false bottom is necessary as the jars will break if placed directly 
on the bottom of the boiler. 

Selection of the Fruit and the Vegetables. The first step in 
successful canning is careful selection of the materials. Choose 
perfectly sound and fresh fruit. Never can fruits or vegetables 
that are old or hard, or have in any way begun to decay. Young, 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 37 

freshly-gathered vegetables are superior in flavor and taste to 
any others. The vegetables are better if gathered early in the 
morning while the dew is still on them, and canned at once. If 
it is impossible to can the vegetables immediately, do not allow 
them to wither, but put them in cool water or in a cool, damp 
place so that they will be in good condition when ready for use. 

General Directions: 

If necessary for the fruit to stand after it has been prepared, 
drop into fresh cold water to prevent discoloration. 

To prepare the jars for use: 

First wash thoroughly, then sterilize by one of the following 
ways : 

Cover jars with cold water, heat to boiling point. Turn up- 
side down to drain, or simply 

Heat clean jars in warming oven. 

To nse tlie jars: 

Fill jar with prepared food. 

Pour in syrup or water (leaving no space for air) filling jar 
brimful. 

Follow the directions in each recipe as to the amount of sugar 
and time for cooking. 

Adjust cover and clamp according to the kind of jar used. 

When the jar is perfectly cold, see that it is perfectly clean, 
then test to see if it is well sealed by trying to lift the lid. If the 
lid loosens shortly after it has been canned, before fermentation 
sets in, simply re-cook, taking special care to see if neither jar 
or lid is defective. 

After canned goods have been stored, make it a habit to look 
them over occasionally. 

Method of Canning. The details in the method of canning 
fruits and vegetables varies with every individual case, but the 
general provisions bear repeating. For instance, select only the 
best material for canning, prepare it carefully, place in clean 
jars or cans, and cover with syrup or a hot brine, as the case 
may be. In canning vegetables add sufficient salt to season, 1 t. 



38 Bulletin of tlic Univcrsiiy of Texas 

salt to each (luart of veiretables. ^ynip is used for the fruit if 
additional sweetness is desired. 1 C of snpfar to 2 C. of water 
is the standard syrnp. Do not nse preser-dnc: powders. "Where 
glass jars are used, earefnlly plaoe rubber and cover. Place the 
jars in the eanner so that they do not touch one another. Add 
water until it reaches the neck of the jar, then pour in boilin.2: 
water to cover the jars. Replace cover to the boiler. 

The w^ater will soon reach the boiling- point. Continue cook- 
ing according tc the specific fruit or vegetable in the cans. At 
the end of this period, remove the boiler to the back of the 
stove and uncover. Leave the cans, containing vegetables which 
must be recooked. in the boiler. Fasten wire spring into place 
so that no aii- can enter the jar or can. Fruits need no further 
cooking, so they should be removed as soon as possible and care- 
fully wrapped to allow to cool. Within 12 or 15 hours, again 
place the boiler over the fire, and proceed with the vegetables 
as on the first day. Repeat the third day. With some vege- 
tables it is not necessary that the cooking take place the third 
day, but with corn, okra, snap and butter beans, and peas, it is 
essential if one would be assured of their keeping qualities. 

References 
Fanners' Bulletins: 

Canning Peaches on the Farm. No. 426. 
Canned Fruit, Preserves and Jellies. No. 203. 
Canning Vegetables in the Home. No. 359. 

Bulletins of the University of Texas: 
The Home Garden. 

Agricultural and Industrial Department, Cotton Belt R. B.: 
Canning Fruits and Vegetables on the Farm. 

International Harvester Co., Chicago, Illinois: 
The Cold Pack Method. 

Agricultural anel MccJianical College of Texas: 
Canning, Preserving, Pickling. B-26. 



Simple Courses in Hrjme Economics 39 

Lesson Plan 

Teacher's Aim: 

To give the principles iiiiderlying- the canning of fruits and 
vegetables. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To learn the best methods of canning fruits and vegetables. 

Suggested Questions 

What causes fruits and vegetables to spoil? 

Where have you heard of these microscopic plants before ? 

How can they bo killed? 

Is sterilization all that is necessary ? 

Give in detail the steps necessary in canning. 

What cans are best to use? 

Is it wise to use olvl rul)l)crs on the glass jars? 

Related Subjects 

Agriculture: 

Grow fruits and vegetaljles in the school garden. 

Construct ive TVV/rA- ; 

Make bottom for wash boiler to be used in canning. 

Make closet at home for keepino- canned fruits and vegetables. 

Mathematics: 

Compare cost of home-canned and factory-canned peaches and 
string beans. 

Determine cost of one cjuart can of peaches, corn, and string- 
beans. 

English : 

Write up notebooks and recipes. 

Learn to spell and define all new words used in this lesson. 
Write an essay on the microscopic plants. Show how they 
help and hinder the housewife. 



40 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Recipes. 
Canned Corn 

Select corn with full g^rains which have not begun to harden. 

This is the period of greatest sugar content. 
Remove husks, use a stiff brush to take off silks. 
Cut corn off with sharp knife. 
Add salt to taste, about 1 t. to 1 qt. water. 
Pack jar with corn, add as much water as jar will hold. 
Adjust rubber and glass top. 

Place in boiler, add water until it reaches the neck of the jar. 
Heat water until it simmers, then add boiling water to cover 

jars. 
Continue boiling for one hour. "Within 12 or 15 hours cook 

again 1 hour. Repeat the cooking process the following day. 

Canned Berries. 

Can according to the directions for peaches and pears. 
Note: Berries require to be carefully looked over. 

Canned Peaches and Pears. 

To Prepare Fruit: 

Peaches — Scald 2 or 3 m., pare, seed. 

Pears — Pare. Slice, leave whole or cut into halves or quarters. 
For Peaches use syrup made from 

2 C. sugar 

2 C. water 

Boil 10 m. 

For Pears use syrup of following consistency: 
2 C. sugar 
4 C. water 

Boil 10 m. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 41 

Note: Add syrup, have it at the same temperature as the fruit. 

Read general directions carefully. 

Pack prepared fruit in jars. 

Add syrup until jar is brimful. 

Adjust covers with great care. 

Steam 15 to 30 m., according to the ripeness of the fruit. 

Canned String Beans 

Select young and tender beans, string. 

Pack in jars, leaving whole or break into short lengths. 

Cover with cold w^ater, to which has been added 1 t. salt for 

each qt. of beans. 
Adjust rubber and cover. 
Cook and follow the directions for com. 

Note: A small red pepper placed in the bottom of the jar will give 
a delightful flavor. 

Canned Tomatoes 

Select firm, average sized tomatoes. 

Pack in jars. 

Cover with cold water to which has been added 1 t. salt to 

each quart of tomatoes. 
Adjust rubber and cover. 
Cook, following directions for corn. 



CEREALS 

Subject ]\Iatt.er 

Cereals or grains are grasses and seeds of plants which are 
used for food. Among the most important in Texas are wheat, 
maize, oats, rye, milo, rice and kafir. From these cereals many 
breakfast foods and meals are prepared. 

The Government Bulletin gives us the following information 
on our well known cereals : 

"Oats are distinctively a cereal of northern regions, and 
wherever grown are an important porridge staple. In old- 
fashioned oatmeal much of the husk, which adheres closely to 
the grain, often remained in the meal. This seems now to have 
been largely remedied by improved methods of milling, thougli 
some tough particles of skin are still left in the finished product. 
Nevertheless, when thoroughly cooked, oats are a healthful food, 
the widespread use of which is well justified. The oat breakfast 
foods keep better than similar products made from wheat and 
corn. 

"Wheat is the most important breadstuff, and in the United 
States is also an important breakfast cereal. The old English 
dish, frumenty, made by boiling the husked grains with milk 
and spices, seems to be about the only one in which the grain is 
used whole. The slightly crushed grains with the bran left on 
are called cracked wheat or wheat grits. AVheat is also rolled 
or flaked, and is shredded by a special process. The majority 
of our wheat breakfast foods seem to contain at least a part of 
the middlings, farina and gluten preparations being the main 
exceptions. ' ' 

Cereals are nourishing, wholesome food Avhen properly cooked 
and served. There is today, however, a growing popularity in 
fa\'or of the ready-to-serve cereals. ?Tany grocerymen say they 
sell more com flakes and puffed rice than any other breakfast 
food. These cereals are very expensive, do not contain much 
nutritive value, and are not as wholesome food as the well 
cooked cereal. For example, a package of oatmeal costs ten cents 
and furnishes about 1575 calories of fuel value, while the pack- 



Simple Courses In Ho}iie Economics 43 

age of puffed rice costs liftcen cents and fui'nishes about 570 
calories. Dry cereals are especially valuable for children when 
properly cooked, and can be used to uood advantage in the 
school lunch room. 

References 

Farmers' Bulletin, No. 249, Cereal Breakfast Foods. 
Universify of Texas Bulletin, No. 342, Food for Growing 
Children. 
Story of a Grain of Wheat, Edgar. 

Lesson Plan 

TeacJier's Aim: 
To teach the value of cereals in the dietary. 
To show the costliness of ready-to-serve cereals. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To study and prepare cereals. 

Suggested Questions 

AVhat package cereal do you use at home? 

What others are there on the market? 

W^hat is the difference in value of these various cereals? 

What is the value of cereals in the diet ? 

How should cereals be cooked? 

Should they be served with sugar" 

What can be done with left over cereals? 

Related Subjects 
Geography : 

Draw a map and locate wheat and corn belts of the United 
States. Draw a map of Texas and locate as many of the flour 
and meal mills as possible. 

Mathematics: 

How many servings of one-half cup are there in a package 
of "Puffed Rice." Compute the cost per person. 



44 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

How many servings, allowins: two tablespoons of '"nv cereal, 
are there in one package of "Ci'cam of "^^'heat'? Compute cost 
per serving. 

EnglisJi: 

Write lip notebooks and recipes. T.earn to spell and define 
all new words used in this lesson. Eead and retell the story of 
Ceres and Proserpine. 

Kecipes 

The following rules apply to the cooking of cereals. 

Scatter the cereals slowly into boiling salted water (or milk). 
The water should not stop boiling during the addition of the 
cereal. Continue the boiling at least five minutes after the cereal 
is added. Stir the cereal with a fork, or with an egg whip. 

When the cereal has boiled five minutes place it in a double 
boiler, steamer or fireless cooker and allow it to cook thoroughly. 
In general it is better to at least double the time for cooking 
stated on the package. When the Fireless Cooker is used the 
cereal is left in the cooker over night. 

Baked Left-Over Cereal 

ly- C. -rooked Cream of Wheat 
1 C. com meal mush 

1 C. milk 

2 eggs — whites and yolks — beaten separately 
^5 C. melted butter 

1 t. salt 

Combine ingredients. 
Bake in buttered pan in moderate oven. 
• Serve hot. 

Cereal Pudding 

1 C. cooked cereal 

2 C. milk 

2 eggs — yolks and whites — beaten separately 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 45 

1 Square Baker's Chocolate, melted i?i 1/3 cup boiling water 

1/^ C. sugar 

(,Add nut meats if desired.) 

Mix ingredients. 

Bake in buttered dish, in moderate heat. 

Serve with whipped cream. 

Cream of Wheat 

1 C. each of milk and water — boiling Add 

1/2 t. salt 

% C. Cream of Wheat. 

Cook in double boiler 40 to 60 m Add 
White of 1 egg — beaten stiff 

Serve hot. 

Note: This is a splendid way of preparing Cream of Wheat, espe- 
cially for children. 

A few dates, figs or raisins added to the cream of wheat while 
cooking makes a delicious and nutritious addition as well as a 
variety. 



CHEESE 
Subject INIatter 

Cheese is the curd of milk and is a concentrated, nutritious 
food if carefully prepared. The cottaere cheese is the simplest 
form and this ia easily made in the home. The directions for 
makintr this cheese are ii'iven under the recipes. 

A pound of American cheese represents the casein and fat 

from a srallon of average milk. The composition of this cheese 

is as follows: -r. 

rer (jent 

Water 31.6 

Protein ■ 28.8 

Fat :. 35.9 

^[ineral .salts 7 

Carbohydrates 3 

To make this cheese, rennet, a .substance from the stomach 
of the calf, is added to warm, sweet, slightly cooled milk. After 
the rennet is added, the milk is allowed to .stand until it thickens. 
It is then cut into small cubes and the Avhey is drawn ofif. Salt 
is then added and the cheese put into a press. When it is well 
pressed it is taken out, placed in a cool, clean place and allowed 
to ripen. 

Cheese is a protein food and, therefore, should be cooked at 
a low temperature. AVhen it is cooked at a high temperature 
it becomes tough and stringy and is not easily digested. Lang- 
worthy says, that "it seems fair to believe that there is practi- 
cally no difference between the ease of digestion of cheese and 
meat when both foods are properly prepared." The reputation 
which cheese has gotten for being very indigestible is largely 
attributed to the unsuitable way in which it is cooked and eaten. 
When given a rational place in the diet., it is usually easily di- 
gested. 

References 

The University of Texas Bulletins: 

Simple Cooking of Wholesome Pood for the Farm Home. 

No. 303. 
Problem of the School Luncheon, Part II. No. 339. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 47 

Fartvers ' B ulletins : 

Cheese and Its Economical Uses in the Diet. Xo. 487. 
Sherman, "Food Products," the IMacmillan Co., X. Y. 
Green, "Food Products of the World." 

Lesson Plan 

TeacJier's Aim: 

To teach the composition, nutritive value, and best method of 
cooking cheese, 

Pu2)il^s Aim: 

To learn how to n)ake and serve dishes containing cheese. 

Suggested Questions 

AVhat is cheese? 

What kinds are there? 

TTow is American cheese made? 

Where does rennet come from? 

Could it be made at home? How? 

What is cottage cheese? 

Can someone give a good recipe for making it? 

What are the best ways for using it? 

Related Sub.jects 

Geography : 

What states in the United States are known for their cheese 
making ? 

English : 

Xoteljook work in which important points in the lesson are 
noted. The article on the lesson should always be corrected. 
Read stories about cheese. 

Spelling: • 

Learn new words. Detine each and use in sentences. 



48 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Eecipes 

Cottage Cheese 

Clabbered milk — heat slowly until rnird begins to separate 

from the whey. 
Pour into a cheese cloth bag made for that purpose. 
Allow it to drip until dry and mealy. 
Add salt to season. ]\Iix well. 

Note: The cheese will keep for several days if stored in a cool 
place. It may be served in several ways. The following are sug- 
gested. As a: 

Dessert — with cream and sugar, honey or syrup. 

Salad or sandwiches in combination with olives, pimentoes, onions, 
nuts and salad dressing. (See recipes for sandwiches, "Out-of-door 
Picnic") 

Cottage CJieese Pudding 

2 G. cottage cheese 
V2 C. sugar 

% C. currants or raisins 
1/4 C. bread crumbs 
14 C. melted butter 
2 eggs — slightly beaten. 

Mix the above ingredients. 

Bake in a slow oven. 

Set baking dish in a pan of hot water. 

Cottage Cheese Salad 

Note: To give variety to the method in serving, which is quite 
as important as variety of flavor, roll prepared cheese into round 
or egg shaped balls, sprinkle with chopped nut meats, then serve as 
usual on lettuce leaf. The leaf may be rolled, then cut into narrow 
strips and placed in plate, suggesting a nest. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 49 

Cheese on Toast. I 
(A meat substitute) 

1/2 lb. cheese — cut into small pieces — heat until melted in 

% C. milk, then add 

1/2 t. salt 

Yolks of 3 eggs — beaten 

"Whites of 3 eggs — beaten until stiff and dry 

Cook until the consistency of custard. 

Serve at once on toasted crackers or points of toast. 

Cheese on Toast. II 

2 C. "White Sauce (medium) 
1/2 C. cheese — diced 

Heat until cheese is melted. 

Serve on toast or crackers. 
Note: Use a double boiler to heat the ingredients. • 

Cheese Fondue 

1 C. milk — scald 

1 T. butter 

I/4 lb. cheese (grated or cut into small pieces) 

1 C. bread crumbs 

2 eggs — well beaten 
1/2 t. salt 

14 t. mustard — if desired 
f. g. pepper 

Cook slowly in double boiler until mixture is thor- 
oughly heated. 

Serve on toasted crackers. 



4— Econ. 



50 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Cheese and Rice 

1/2 C. rice — cook in boiling ,saltecT water until tender 

White sauce proportions : 

4 T. butter 

4 T. flour 

1/2 t. salt 

2 C. milk 

Arrange alternate layers of cooked rice, white 
sauce, and grated cheese in a buttered baking dish 
Cover with buttered bread crumbs. 
Bake until heated through and crumbs are brown. 

Bice and Nut Rarebit 

1 T. butter— melted 

1 T. flour— blend, then add 

1 C milk 

V2 C, cheese — grated or cut into small pieces 

Cook until creamy in double boiler, add 
1/^ C. cooked rice 
Vo C: nut meats — chopped 

Serve on hot buttered toast or toasted crackers. 



CORN 

Subject ^Iatter 

The cereal plant known as maize or Indian corn has been 
cultivated throughout the warmer states of America for twenty 
centuries or more. It was long- ago grown by the Arabs of 
Northern Africa and is a staple crop throughout vast regions 
of Asia, China and Australia. The northern regions of Europe 
are unsuited to its cultivation and there it is grown mainly for 
forage. 

From an agricultural standpoint corn is of the utmost im- 
portance. Every experiment station in the United States has 
conducted investigations regarding this product. According to 
records, about one-third of all the land under cultivation in the 
United States is devoted to corn, SS.6 per cent of all the farmers 
in the country raise corn. The crop of 1910, if loaded on one 
ton wagon, would encircle the entire globe. 

Hominy, corn meal, grit,s, and similar products are the prin- 
cipal corn foods. The unripe ears of the sweet variety are a 
favorite vegetable, and pop corn is a typical American tid-bit, 
while roasted kernels of corn are sometimes used as a substitute 
for coffee. Starch, glucose, and oil are also obtained from corn. 

As indicated in former bulletins, the food value of any pro- 
duct depends upon its composition. The corn seed, like rice 
and potatoes, contains a large quantity of starch. This, is not 
all, however. It also contains fat, mineral matter, and protein. 
The actual composition of coi-n is as follow;S : protein 10 to 12 
per cent, fat 4 to 5 per cent, and starch 79 to 80 per cent, min- 
eral matter 1 per cent. 

Protein and mineral matter are needed in the body to build 
and repair body tissues. Carbohydrates and fats are relied on 
to furnish heat and energy for the body. From the composition 
of the corn seed it will be seen that it furnishes both heat and 
energy and material to build bone and make muscle as well. 

The early Indians found that they could digest corn more 
easily if they parched it and then ground it into meal between 
two flat stones. The colonial people soaked and pounded the 



52 Bulletin of fhe Unii^ersify of Texas 

grain in large mortars called the "hominy mortars." Nowa- 
days corn is made into corn meal by means of complicated ma- 
chinery. A full detail of this method of preparation can be 
gotten from Farmers' Bulletin No. 298. 

The cooking of corn cereals is especially important. Heat 
develops the flavor and makes them more palatable. It kills 
any mold or bacteria found in the raw cereal, and softens the 
food so that it can be more conveniently eaten and more rapidly 
cared for by the digestive juices. Heat expands and disinte- 
grates the starch grains and breaks down the indigestible fiber 
of the cell. 

Corn meal is cooked in a great variety of ways, but most of 
the dishes fall under two general heads, — namely, those which 
are baked and thQse which are boiled. 

Eeferences 

Farmers' Bulletin: 

Corn and Corn Products as Food, No. 298. 
Seed Corn, No. 415. 
Com Growing, No. 199. 

Texas Department of Agriculture: 

Corn Culture for Texas Farmers, Bulletin No. 23. 
Maine Agricultural Bulletin: 

Corn as Food, Orone, Maine. 
Books: 

Sargent's "Corn Plants." 

Book of Corn, Orange Judd Co., New York. 

Early Colonial Days, Carl Morse. 

Free Educational Exhihits: 

Set Showing Com Products, Corn Produce Co., New York. 

Lesson Plan 

Teacher's Aim: 

To teach the value of corn as food. 



■Simple Courses in Home Economics 53 

To teach proper methods of preparing corn and corn food 

products. 
To teacli suitable and attractive ways of preparing corn for 

the school Innch. 
To emphasize the interrelation of this work to other subjects. 



iVs Aim: 
To learn to cook Indian corn dishes. 

Suggested Questions 

Describe a corn plant. What part of the plant is especially 
valuable as food? Examine the corn seed. (Pass soaked and 
unsoaked seed to the children.) 

"What is the use of the hull? Eemovc hull, notice the white 
scale at the .small end of the kernel. Examine some sprouting 
grains. What is the function of this small white scale? Grind 
or pulverize some corn seeds. Examine the meal carefully. 
Taste it. Boil some in water. Describe its behavior. Compare 
what happens here with the cooking of starch a;S we find it in 
rice or potatoes. What is present in corn meal in large quan- 
tity? (Explain the other constituents of the corn seed and 
bring out their use to the human system.) 

Restate that the corn seed, like rice and potatoes, contains a 
large quantity of starch. Review the cooking of starch in the 
potato and rice, and let the children suggest the best method of 
preparing corn meal mush. 

Related Subjects 

Noti've and Gardening: 

Study the germination of corn seeds. Test corn seeds (the 
seed corn from all about the community may be brought to the 
schoolhouse to be tested for productivity). Plant popcorn in 
the garden. 

Geogra-pliy: 
®raw a map showing the states producing large quantities 



54 Bulletin of tlie 'University of Texas 

of corn. Discuss the soil and climate adapted to the growth of 
corn ; the commercial importance of corn. 

Spelling: 

Give new words used in the development of the lesson. Define 
words and their use. 

History: 

Study the life of the Pilgrim.s. the Puritans, and the first 
Thanksgiving. 

Hand Work: 
Make frame for com seed testing, make corn-shuck mats. 

EngUsh : 

Have pupils keep a notel)Ook in which all the subject matter 
is recorded and corrected. Include in this stories and poems 
connected with the discovery of the corn ; its early history, 
use, etc. Read stories and poems about the corn. 

"Blessing the Corn Fields," from "Tlie Song of Hiawatha/' 

by Longfellow 

"And the maize-field grew and ripened, 
Till it stood in all the splendor 
Of its garments green and yellow, 
Of its tassels and its plumage, 
And the maize-ears full and .shining 
Gleamed from bur.sting sheaths of verdure." 

Whittier's ''Corn Song" 

Heap hich the farmers' wintry hoard! 

Heap high the golden corn ! 
No richer gift has Autumn poured 

From out her lavish horn ! 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 

Let other lands, exulting, glean 

The apple from the pine, 
The orange from its glossy green, 

The cluster from the vine. 

We hetter love the hearty gift 

Our rugged vales bestow, 
To cheer us when the storm shall drift 

Our harvest fields with snow. 

Throuiih vales of grass and meads of flowers 
Our ploughs their furrows made, 

While on the hills the sun and showers 
Of changeful April played. 

AVe dropped the seed o'er hill and plain 

Beneath the sun of Alay, 
And frightened from our sprouting grain 
Tlie robber ci'ows away. 

All through the long bright days of June 
Its leaves grew green and fair, 

And waved in hot midsunnner's noon 
Its soft and yellow hair. 

And now, with Autumn's moonlit eves, 

Its harvest-time has come, 
We pluck away the frosted leaves. 

And bear the treasures home. 

There, when the snows about us drift, 

And winter winds are cold. 
Fair hands the broken grain shall sift. 

And knead its meal of gold. 

Let vapid idlers loll in silk 

Around their costly board ; 
Give us the bowl of samp and milk, 
By homespun beauty poured ! 



55 



56 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Where'er the wide old kitchen hearth 
Sends up its smoky curls, 

Who ■\^'ill not thank the kindly earth, 
A^d bless our farmer girls? 

Then shame on all the proud and vain, 
Whose folly laughs to scorn 

The blessing of our hardy grain, 
Our wealth of golden corn ! 

Let earth withhold her goodly root, 
Let mildew blight the rye. 

Give to the worm the orchard's fruit, 
The wheat field to the fly: 

But let the good old crop adorn 
The hills our fathers trod; 

Still let us for his golden corn, 
Send up our thanks to God I 

Recipes 

Corn Meal Bread 

Dry Ingredients: 
% C. white flour 
3 t. baking powder 
1% C. com meal 
1/2 t. salt 

Mix and sift. 

Jjiquid Mixture : 
1 egg — well beaten 

1 C. milk 

Combine the above mixtures, add 

2 T. fat 

Beat well 

Bake in moderate oven 1 hour 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 57 

Corn Meal 3Ius]i 

Sprinkle — 
1 C. corn meal into 

4 G. boiling: water, to which has been added 
1 t. salt. Stir constantly and continue boiling for 10 m. 

Place in steamer or double boiler. 

Cook for 3 hours. 
Note: The mush may be cooked in the fireless cooker. 
See University Bulletin No. 347. 

Hominy Grits 

1 C. grits 

4 C. boiling water 

1 t. salt 

FolloAV directions for corn meal mush. 

Popcorn Balls 

% C. sugar 
1/2 t. salt 

^lelt until amber colored. Pour over 

2 qts. buttered popcorn 

Shape into balls. 

Note: Dip hands into cold water before handling the corn to pre- 
vent getting burned. Syrup holds the heat for a long period of time. 



EGGS 

St'bjfct Matter 

Eggs are among onr most highly valued foods. They are a 
protein food and especially iisefnl in the feeding of small chil- 
dren. They are among the first foods to be added to the milk 
diet of the young child and if eircumstances should arise in 
which no form of milk enters into the child's diet, the egg will 
come nearer furnishing a satisfactory substitute than any other 
food. Eggs are also rich in iron and contain valuable fats. Tho 
actual composition of the egg is as follows: 

Per Cent 

Water ' 73.7 

Protein : 13.4 

Fat 10.5 

Ash 1 

This composition indicates that eggs arc not a concentrated 
food but have high nutritive value, and, a.s stated above, they 
are a protein food. All protein foods are better when cooked at 
a low temperature, a high temperature makes the protein tough 
and hard to digest. Eggs should not be boiled or fried as these 
methods prepare them at too high a temperature. It is probable 
that eggs vsoft-cooked, at a temperature below that of boiling 
water, are the most readily and rapidly digested. The recipes 
at the end of this lesson give the pi-oper method of preparing 
the egg. 

In addition to their well-known food value, eggs are popular 
because they can be prepared quickly and in a variety of ways. 
Doubtless, it is largely because the egg facilitates so many things 
in cookery which would otherwise be difficult or impracticable, 
that the price of eggs is always high. However, even when eggs 
ere a: a high price, a dozen eggs may fairly be considered worth 
as much in the dietary as two pounds of meat. 



Simple Courses in Borne Economics 59 

Eeferences 

The JJniversitij of Texas Bulletins: 

Simple Cooking of Wholesome Foods for the Farm Home. 

No. 303. 
Problem of the School Lunch, Part I. No. 339. 

Farmers ' Bulletins : 

Eggs and Their Uses as Food. No. 128. 
Care and Preservation of Eggs. 

Lesson Plan 

Teacher's Aim: 

To teach the children the food value of egg's and the best 
method of cooking them. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To learn how to prepare eggs by the best methods. 

Suggested Questions 

When should eggs be fed to a young child? 

How should these eggs be prepa.red? 

Why are eggs valuable in the dietary of school children ? 

Explain their food value. 

What is the best method of keeping eggs? 

Related Subjects 

Nature Study: 

Study eggs by looking at them before a bright light. Break 
one — and learn the parts. Discuss what spoils eggs. Discuss 
the different kinds of bird eggs. 

English: 

Read stories about eggs. How eggs have helped explorers 
and castaways to live. Read the following legends: The Goose 
that Laid the Golden Egg, Swiss Family Robinson, and Rob'ii- 
son Crusoe. , 



60 Bulletin of tJie University of Texas 

Spelling: 

Give the new words connected with the development of the 
lesson. Give their definition and the nse of them. 

Aritlimetic: 

Problems based on cost of e^srs, for example. If one crate 
holds 30 dozen esrgs and sells for $6, how mnch does the farmer 
get for each egg? 

Estimate the cost of serving the entire room with scrambled 
eggs, allowing one Qg.g to each person. 

Drawing: 

Draw a diagram on the board and show the amount of f.it, 
protein, water and mineral matter the q^^ contains. 

Eectpes 

Boiled Eggs 

Allow 
2 C. of water for 
1 egg and 
1 C. for each additional egg 

1. Soft: 

Lower eggs into dish of boiling water with a spoon. 
Let stand where it will keep hot — not boil — 

covered — from 5 to 7 m. 
Note: The white should be soft and jelly-like and the yolk soft 
but not liquid at 7 m. 

2. Hard: 

Same method as above — cook 40 to 45 m. 

Note: Cover with cold water, allow to stand a few minutes before 
peeling. The egg should be dry and mealy. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 61 

Scalloped Eggs 

Arrange chopped, hard-cooked eggs in alternate layers with 

medium white sauce. 
.Cover with buttered crumbs. 
Brown in moderate oven. 
Serve hot. Six eggs will serve eig;ht. 

Scrambled- Eggs 

5 eggs^slightly beaten 
1/2 C. milk 
1/2 t. salt 
f. g. pepper 

Pour mixture into a double boiler containing 

1 T. melted butter. 

Cook until a creamy consistency — stir lightly and 

constantly. 
Serve on toast. 

Stuffed Eggs 

4 hard cooked eggs^ — cut into halves, lengthwise or crosswise. 
To the 4 yolks, mashed, add 

2 T. grated cheese 

1 t. vinegar or salad dressing 

f. g. pepper 

Salt to season. 

1 T. melted butter 

Fill halves of white with above mixture. 

To serve liot. Reheat in white sauce. 

To serve cold. Arrange on a serving dish, garnish 
with parsley. 

Oolden Rod Style 

White of 1 hard-cooked egg, cut fine; add to 
1/4 C. white sauce, heat, pour over 
1 slice of toast, sprinkle with 
Yolk — riced. 



FRUITS 
Subject INIatter 

Fruits are one of our most important and popular foods. 
During the spring and summer, we have a large variety to choose 
from. Berries, melons, figs, peaches, pears, and grapes come 
together, or succeed each other in rapid succession. With the 
coming of winter months, however, the varieties become fewer 
and fewer, until at last we fall back upon the most popular one 
in the fruit world, the apple. The cranberry, too, is regarded as 
a staple winter fruit, and the Thanksgiving turkey is never con- 
sidered complete without its invariable accompaniment of cran- 
berry sauce or jelly. 

Dried and evaporated fruits are also popular during the 
winter months. Probably the most nutritious and the best knov;i\ 
of these are the evaporated apples, peaches, apricots, and dried 
figs, dates, raisins, and prunes. There are numberless ways of 
serving these fruits — in fact, there is a book entitled ''One Hun- 
dred Ways of Serving the Apple." A few practical recipes 
which can be used advantageously in the school and in the home 
are given in this bulletin. 

Potatoes are not the only foods containing starch. All grains 
have a large amount. The most important grain is wheat be- 
cause it is used so generally for bread-making. We have only 
to look at a slice of bread made from this grain to tell that it 
contains starch. 

Some fruits also contain starch, though the majority contain 
a larger amount of sugar. While starch and sugar do not re- 
semble each other very much in appearance and taste, they have 
the same use in the body, i. e., furnishing heat and energy. 

A simple test for starch is tincture of iodine. Dilute a few 
drops in cold water, and drop a little of this mixture on any 
food. If it contains raw starch the iodine will turn it purple, 
if cooked, blue. Have the pupils test potatoes, apples, and any 
other foods at hand for starch. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 63 

Review the Potato: 

Principal food value — starch. 

How the best method of cooking was determined, i. e., by find- 
ing out the characteristic properties. 

Review the tests used in determining properties, i. e. : 

By grating the potato. 

By liquid containing white sediment — starch. 

Starch mixed with cold water to see if it would dissolve. Re- 
sult. Conclusion, starch will not dissolve in cold water. 

Starch and water boiled. Result, thick, soft mass; more pal- 
atable than raw starch, also more digestible. 

All food must be dissolved and reduced to a liquid by the di- 
gestive juices before it can nourish the body. Raw starch is 
not dissolved by the digestive juices. I'o vialxe starcli digestihJe 
it must he thorounldy cooked. 

Cooking softens the woody fiber (review fiber of potato) sur- 
rounding the starch grains and releases them so they can be 
thoroughly cooked and become available for food. 

Sugar and starch are called fuel foods and have about the 
same use in the body. They both furnish heat and energy. They 
have much the same relation to the body that coal has to the en- 
gine or gasoline to the automobile. Has the apple any other 
flavor besides sweetncvss? It -is sour also. The sour taste de- 
notes the presence of acid, so apples are not only sweet but acid 
as well. The acids are quite a« valuable as the sugars, although 
they cto not give heat and energy. They belong to the valuable 
mineral salts. They help to keep the blood healthful, and have 
various other uses in the body besides, such as forming of boue 
and muscle. On examining the apple you will find a fiber sim- 
ilar to that of the potato. When the apple is cooked this fiber 
is softened just as it was in the potato. You know how mueli 
softer a baked apple is than a fresh apple. When this fiber is 
softened, it is much more easily digested. Test cranberries, 
prunes, and any other dried fruits on hand with iodine. (A 
number of pupils in the class may be asked to bring a small 
amount of one of the various fniits mentioned for experimental 
purposes.) Taste these fruits. How do they compare in sweet 



64 X Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

ness, in moisture? What would be your conchision as to their 
composition and their comparative nutrition? 

Each pupil should be required to write up each of these e.T.- 
periments carefully, and some time during the month should 
have a written lesson or examination on them. 

Fruits are usually classed under two heads ; flavor fruits and 
food fruits. 

Flavor fruits contain more than 80 per cent water. Their 
principal food is sugar which varies from five and one-half to 
IQiA per cent, according to the fruit and to the mineral salts. 
The mineral salts make the food particularly valuable, as they 
are essential in keeping the blood and other parts of the body 
in a healthful condition. (Apples and cranberries are excellent 
examples of flavor fruits.) 

Food fruits contain more than 20 per cent of solids, and pos- 
sess considerable nutritive value. The banana is a typical food 
fruit. 

Drier! fruits contain a large per cent of sugar. Dried figs have 
about 50 per cent. They also contain other valuable foods be- 
sides sugar. Weight for weight, they contain more nourishment 
than bread. Prunes, raisins, and dates are among the best known 
of our dried fruits. 

Digestibility of fruits depends largely upon their ripeness. 
Ripe fruit is much more wholesome and more easily digested 
than green. 

References 

Hutcheson. "Food and Dietetics," pp. 253-259. 

Williams & Fisher, ''Elements of the Theory and Practice of 
Teaching Cookery," pp. 226-236. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 291. 
"The Evaporation of Apples." 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 65 

Lesson Plan 
Teacher's Aim,: 

To teach the value of fruit as a food : 
From a nutritive stanolpoint. 
To give variety to the diet. 
To teach attractive, wholesome, and economical methods of 
preparin'g fruits. 

To emphasize correlation \\\X\\ related subjects. 

PupH's Aim: 
To learn how to prepare fruits. 

Class Work: 

Compare the apple and the potato in size, shape and general 
appearance. Which is the most attractive? Why? Fruit 
doesn't benefit the plant as directly as the potato from which 
the new plant sprouts and draws nourishment. It is meant to 
serve as a bait to the birds and ins?cts : they are attracted by 
the bright colors and delicious odors to eat the fruit, and they 
liberate the seed in so doing. The seed, if they fall on fertile 
soil, take root and grow, and in this way, nature continues theiv 
propagation. 

Grate the apple just as the potato was grated — compare and 
discuss results. 

Put a drop of tincture of iodine ou a small piece of potato — 
note results. 

Repeat the above, using the apple instead of potato — compare 
the results. 

Boil some of the Avater drained from the apple pulp — compare 
result with similar experiment made with the potato. Does the 
apple contain starch? 

Taste the raw apple, raw potato— compare flavors. Judging 
from the taste which food does the apple contain which the 
potato does not ? Sugar. Sugar is the chief food in apples, and 
"with few exceptions all other fruits. 



5 — Eeon. 



66 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Related Subjects 

Geograjyhy : 

Discuss soil and climate adapted to fruit growing, and the 
principal fruit growing countries. Methods of drying and pack- 
ing prunes, raisins, fis's, etc. 

Nature Study: 

Study distinction between fruit and vegetables. 

Study of birds and insects which help to distribute seeds. 

Physiology : 

The digestive organs and the digestion of starch and sugar. 

Arithmetic: 

Calculate the amount of water in apples. Method : Weigh 
fresh apple, cut in slices one-eighth inch in thickness, arrange 
slices on trays or clean boards and cover them with net or cheese 
cloth to protect from flics and other insects. Put the tray in the 
open sunshine everj^ day on the opposite side from the road to 
avoid all dust possible. When thoroughly dried, weigh again. 

Estimate the per cent of water present in applies. 

How many pounds of fresh apples would it take to make a 
pound of dried apples ? 

What would be the cost of a pound of home dried apples? 
What is the difference in price between them and the dried 
apples bought at the store ? 

Drawing: 

Draw apple from nature and color with crayons. 

History : 

Review the apple in history. 

Sacred history story of "The Forbidden Fruit." 

The Roman Conquest of the Britons and the introduction 

by them of the apple into England. Its place in English 

history. 
The apple in America. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 67 

English: 

Notebook work as in potato lesson. 

Composition on the apple. 

Story telling, mythological stories, Hallowe'en and other folk- 
lore tales. 

Spelling: 

New words connected with the lesson and their definition. 

Construction Work: 

Wooden trays with handles for drying apples, or screened 
boxes. 

The History of the Apple 

The apple dates back to the very dawn of history. It has been 
frequently called the "fruit of discord," as so many unhappy 
disasters in history and legend have been connected with it. All 
are familiar with the fall of Adam and Eve, and apple is usually 
supposed to have been the forbidden fruit. The decision of 
Paris which brought about the famous Trojan War again brings 
the apple into history. 

The apple is frequently but wrongly supposed to be a native 
of England. There was a native variety, but it was small in 
size, about the size of a small hazel nut and inferior in flavor. 
The Eoman conquerors brought a superior variety with them 
when they conquered the Britons — they having received it from 
the Orient. Henry VIII was especially fond of apples, and his 
gardener cultivated extensive orchards. Many tales are related 
of his love for the fruit. Shakespeare frequently referred to 
apples as "pippins," so called because they are raised from the 
' ' pip ' ' or seed. Cider seems to have been first made in England, 
and w^as for many years a national beverage. 

The apples were introduced into New England by the early 
settlers. It took very kindly to its new home, and its cultivation 
spread from colony to colony as the country grew. So delicious 
were the Albemarle pippins of Virginia their fame spread across 
the water to the very ears of the king himself, and a yearly 
tribute of them was exacted for the roval table. 



68 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

At present, over two thousand varieties are known. The apple 
enjoys much the same popuarity in the fruit world which the 
potato does in the vegetable world. It stands packing and 
transportation to great distances, and has splendid keeping 
qualities. It may be stored for months without deterioration 
or loss of flavor. It also lends itself to an endless variety of 
dishes, and for this reasoon it is particularly valuable to house- 
keepers. One recipe book, as has been said before, contains 
over one hundred recipes for using apples. 

SOME MYTHS AND LEGENDS OF THE APPLE 

Scandinavian. — The apple was the favorite fruit of the Scan- 
dinavian gods, who ate it when they found themselves growing 
infirm in body and mind. 

Greek. — Atlanta was tolk by a fortune teller that if she ever 
married it would be her ruin, consequently, she fled from men 
and devoted all her time to the chase. But the fame of her 
beauty traveled abroad, and many suitors came to woo her. So 
that she might be rid of them, she announced that she would 
wed the one who could conquer her in a race, but defeat would 
mean death to the contestant. Despite the hard conditions, 
many swains entered the contest. Hippomenes was appointed 
judge of the race, but when he saw how beautiful Atlanta was 
he decided to enter the contest himself, and appealed to Venus 
to help him. This she did by giving him three golden apples. 
The race began and Atlanta soon began to gain upon him. He 
threw one of the apples in her path and she paused to pick it 
up. But when she saw he was outdistancing her, she increased 
her speed and threatened to go ahead of him. Again he threw 
an apple, and as before, she paused to get it, and he shot ahead. 
The third time she was abreast of him and he threw the remain- 
ing apple otf to one side. She hesitated a moment, and then 
went out of the path to secure it. and this gave Hippomenes such 
an advantage that he won the race — and a bride. 

The Golden Apples of Hesperides. — Hercules was the strong- 
est man the world had ever seen. Notwithstanding, he was 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 69 

obliged to serve his cousin, who set him twelve labors to par- 
form. The most difficult of these labors was to bring the golden 
apples from the garden of Hesperides. The goddess Juno had 
received these apples as a present at her marriage, and she 
had placed them in the care of the daughters of Hesperis, who, 
with the help of an ever watchful dragon, guarded them etern- 
aUy. 

Hercules did not know where the garden of Hesperides was, 
and had no idea where to look for it, but he decided to seek 
help of Atlas, father of the Hesperides maids. After many 
adventures, he found Atlas standing on the top of a high moun- 
tain, his head and shoulders buried in the clouds above, for he 
was upholding the heavens on his shoulders. This he was com- 
pelled to do by the gods as punishment. Hercules explained his 
mission, and after some discussion. Atlas agreed to go himself 
for the apples if Hercules would hold up the heavens while he 
was gone. He consented and after some time Atlas returned 
with the coveted fruit, but he had enjoyed his freedom so much, 
he decided to let Hercules continue to support the skies. By a 
ruse, however. Atlas was again given his burden. Hercules 
asked him to take the weight a moment so he could take a more 
comfortable position. Atlas, all unsuspecting, assumed his ac- 
customed burden, and Hercules picked up the apples and 
walked off with them leaving poor Atlas to his endless task. 
(Find out the other eleven tasks of Hercules.) 

Recipes 

Apple Tapioca 

% C. pearl tapioca, which has been soaked 1 hr. ; add 
2y2 C. boiling water. 

Cook in double boiler until transparent. 
Prepare apples. Arrange in buttered baking dish, 
fill cavities with sugar; pour over it the pre- 
pared tapioca. 
Bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. 
Serve with cream and sugar or a sauce. 

Note: Minute tapioca may be used. It does not require soaking. 



70 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Apple Sauce 

8 sour apples — pare, slice; add 
Water sufficient to keep from burning ; 
Cook until saft ; 
1 C. sugar; beat until smooth. 

Note: As a variety, or if apples lack flavor, add, while cooking, 
one slice of lemon, six cloves, or one stick of cinnamon. 

Bread and Butter Pudding 

Arrange layers of apple sauce and triangles of 
buttered bread in a buttered baking dish. 

Sprinkle the top layer generously with sugar flav- 
ored with vanila, or ground cinnamon. 

Bake in a moderate oven. 

Serve with cream or a sauce. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Boil gently — 
Cranberries with i/4 as much water — covered — until skins 
burst. 

Stir occasionally. Cook about ten minutes. 

Strain, then add 

Sugar equal to about one-half the measure of 

berries. 
Serve cold. 

Note: Cranberry sauce will usually form into a jelly upon cooling. 
Cook the cranberries in a graniteware saucepan. Why? 
Stir the fruit with a wooden or silver spoon. Why? 
Why is it impossible to give definite directions for the amount of 
sugar? 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 71 

Norwegian. Prune Pudding 

1 C. sugar 

% C. corn starch 

Blend together; add gradually 
11/^ C. boiling prune juice; add water to make the measure, 

it' necessary ; add 
1 inch piece stick cinnamon 
1/^ pound of cooked prunes — stoned 
1 T. lemon juice 

Cook until sufficiently thick to mold. 

Chill, and serve with cream or a sauce. 

Scalloped Apples ! 

1 qt. sliced apples 
1/4 C. sugar 

1/4 t. grated nutmeg 
Juice of 1 lemon 

Mix these ingredients. 

Arrange in alternate layers, with bread crumbs ; 
have crumbs on top. 

Bake until apples are soft 

Serve with sugar and cream or a sauce. 

Stewed Apricots 

2 C. apricots — cook slowly in the juice in which they were 

soaked. "When almost tender, add about 
2 T. of sugar 

Continue cooking until the sugar is dissolved and 
the fruit is tender. 

Steived Primes 

Follow the directions given for Apricots, with the exception 
of the amount of sugar to be used. Prunes are less acid ; hence 
require less sugar. 

Note: A slice of lemon cooked with the prunes gives a pleasing 
flavor. 



72 Bulleti)i of the University of Texas 

Steamed Cranhernj Pudding 

Liquid Mixture — 
8 T. (% C.) butter — creamed; then add 
1 C. sugar — gradually 
3 eggs — well beaten 
1/2 C. milk 

Dry Mixture — • 
31/2 C. flour 
11/4 T. baking powder 

Mix and sift; add 
% C. cranberries. 

Blend the two mixtures. 

Turn into buttered mold which has a cover. 
Steam three hours. 

Serve with cream — sweetened — and flavor with 
nutmeg. 

To Prepare Dried Fruit for Cooking. — Wash thoroughly, and 
soak in fresh water several hours. Cook, until tender, in the 
water in which the fruit was soaked. Why? 



I 



FROZEN DESSERTS 
Subject Matter 

In the summer no dish is more welcome than the frozen des- 
sert. It may be an ice made from the juice of fruits, or a sher- 
bet or a cream made from milk and cream. 

The freezing of these desserts is th'e interesting part. This is 
accomplished by the use of salt and ice. "When ice and salt are 
mixed, a double action takes place; the ice makes the salt melt 
and the melting ice dissolves the salt. You have observed that 
heat is used up in changing matter from the solid to the liquid 
form. Melting ice and salt reach the temperature below the 
freezing point of water. If we pack ice and salt around a mix- 
ture they draw the heat from it so that it freezes. 

The ice cream freezer is especially devised to carry on this 
process of freezing in a convenient and rapid fashion. How- 
ever, when a freezer is not available the dessert may be packed 
in a tin can. The can must then be surrounded with a salt and 
ice mixture, covered carefully, and the contents occasionally 
stirred from the sides and bottom. Where very small amounts 
are made, as in the individual portion in school work, a baking 
powder can may be used with good success. (Be sure and re- 
move the paper from the can. Why?) This is a splendid means 
for one wishing to make only a dish of cream or ice for some ill 
person. 

References. 
Consult any good cook book. 

Lesson Plan 

TeacJier's Aim: 

To teach the use of salt and ice in freezing. 
To teach the preparation of frozen desserts. 



74 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Pupil's Aitn: 

To learn liow to make ice cream and various ices. 

Suggested Questions 

What is your favorite dessert? Why? 

What is used to freeze creams and ices? 

Try the following experiment : 

Fill a cup with cracked ice ; take the temperature of the ice 
with a thermometer. How cold is the ice? Mix four table- 
spoonfuls of rock-salt with the ice, and watch the thermometer. 
When the mercury stops falling^ see what degree of cold it reg- 
isters. Explain the necessity of salt. 

Can you suggest a way to make a frozen dessert if you do not 
have a freezer at home? Describe method. 

What is the advantage of a freezer? 

Related Work 

Science : 

Study the manufacture of artificial ice. Have the class or 
some individual^ if possible, visit an ice plant. 

Study density of freezing mixtures and its influence on the 
time it takes for freezing. 

Explain w^hy the paper on the baking powder can interferes 
with freezing. 

Spelling: 

Write up notebooks and recipes. Learn to spell and define 
any new words used in this lesson. 

English: 

Describe trip to the ice plant. 
Explain the action of the freezer. 

Drawing: 

Draw a freezer and its various parts. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 75 

Miss Farmer gives the following directions on "How to 
Freeze Desserts." 

"The prejudice of thinking a frozen dessert difficult to pre- 
pare has long since been overcome. With ice cream freezer, 
burlap bag, wooden mallet or axe, small saucepan, sufficient ice 
and coarse rock salt, the process neither takes much time nor 
patience. Snow may be used instead of ice; if not readily 
acted on by salt, pour in one cup cold water. Crush ice finely 
by placing in bag and giving a few" blows with mallet or broad 
side of axe; if there are any coarse pieces remove them. Place 
can containing mixture to be frozen in wooden tub, cover, and 
adjust top. Turn crank to make sure can fits in socket. Allow 
three level measures ice to one of salt, and repeat until ice and 
salt come to top of can, packing solidly, using handle of mallet 
to force it down. If only small quantity is to be frozen, the ice 
and salt need come only a little higher in the tub than mixture 
to be frozen. These are found the best proportions of ice and 
salt to insure smooth, fine-grained cream, sherbet, or water ice, 
while equal parts of salt and ice are used for freezing frappe. 
If a larger proportion of salt is used, mixture will freeze in 
shorter time and be of granular consistency, which is desirable 
only for frappe." 

"The mixture increases in bulk during freezing, so the can 
should never be more than three-fourths filled; by over-crowd- 
ing can, cream will be made coarse-grained. Turn the crank 
slowly and steadily to expose as large surface of mixture as pos- 
sible to ice and salt. After it is frozen to a mush, the crank may 
be turned more rapidly, ladding more ice and salt if needed; 
never draw off salt water until mixture is frozen, unless there 
is possibility of its getting into the can, for salt water is what 
effects freezing ; until ice melts, no change will take place. After 
freezing is accomplished, draw off water, remove dasher, and 
with spoon pack solidly. Put cork in opening of cover, then 
put on cover. Ee-pack freezer, using four measures ice to one 
of salt. Place over top newspapers or piece of carpet; when 
serving time comes, remove can, wipe carefully, and place in 
vessel of cool water; let stand one minute, remove cover, and 



76 Bulletin of tJie University of Texas 

run a knife around edge of cream, invert can on serving disTi, 
and frozen mixture will slip out. Should there be any diffi- 
culty, a cloth wrung out of hot water, passed over can, will aid 
in removing mixture." 

Recipes 

Custard Ice Cream 
2 T. flour 
2 C. milk 

Make a paste with the flour and a little of the 
milk. Add remaining flour. Cook 15 m. in 
double boiler, then add 
% C. sugar 

1 egg — well beaten 

Cool, add 

2 C. cream 
1 t. vanilla 

Freeze 

Junket Ice Cream 

4 C. luke warm milk 
1 C. heavy cream 
1% C. sugar 
i/s t. salt 

Mix ingredients, add 
1% junket tablet — dissolved in 
1 T. water 

Let stand until set, add 
1 t. vanilla 

Freeze 

Note: As a garnish serve one-half of a peach prepared in the 
following way: 

1 can peaches 
% C. sugar 

Cook until syrup is thick 

Cool, fill each cavity with blanched almonds or' 
chopped walnuts. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 77 

Lemon Ice 

2 C. sugar 
4 C. water 

Boil 20 m., add 
% C. lemon juice 

Cool, strain, freeze 

Milk Sherbet 

IV2 C sugar 
4 C. milk 

Combine, add slowly, stirring constantly. 
Juice 3 lemons 

Freeze 

Note: If the mixture curdles, it is unsightly, but it will not affect 
the quality of the sherbet. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

1 C. thin cream 
3 C. milk 
% sugar 
11/2 T. vanilla 

Mix ingredients, freeze 



IRISH POTATO 

Subject Matter 

The potato is a starchy food. In addition to the starch, it 
contains mnch water and a little mineral matter and fiber (cel- 
lulose). The children can easily feel and see the water, as 
well as the threadrlike walls and fibers running through the 
potato. These walls separate the starch granules, as described 
below. This starch is a fine, glistening substance, heavier than 
water. This is the substance which makes the potato a valu- 
able food, and to cook this starch well is to cook the potato well. 
Starch should be cooked in boiling water ; and since the princi- 
pal food in the potato is starch, the potato also should be cooked 
in boiling water, and salt should be added for seasoning. 

The actual composition of the potato is as follows: 

Water 78.3 per cent. 

Protein 2.2 per cent. 

Starch 18.1 per cent. 

Mineral , 1.0 per cent. 

Fiiber 4 per cent. 

This indicates that the food value of the vegetable is due to 
the starch and mineral present. Starch is of value to the human 
body in two ways : it gives heat to keep up the bodily tempera- 
ture, and it furnishes energy to perform muscular work. The 
mineral is especially important in building bone. 

The digestibility of the potato depends largely on the method 
of its preparation and the manner in which it is eaten. A mealy 
potato is more digestible than a sogg>% waxy one. A potato 
which enters the stomach in a fine state of division is more di- 
gestible than one taken in large lumps. Through mastication 
these lumps are largely broken up and the potato mixed with the 
saliva, which aids in digestion. 

Potatoes must by no means constitute the solid or even the 
staple diet of man. They contain too little of muscle-building 
food to be used alone. It would take about 22 pounds of potato 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 79 

a day to yield enough of its muscle-building food, and that 
amount would furnish four times as much starch as the sys- 
tem could use. 

References ' 

Farmers' Bulletins: 

Potato and Root Crops, No. 295. 

Text: 

The Potato Culture, No. 35. 
Food Products, Sherman, H. C. 

Lesson Plan 

Teaclier's Ai^n: 

1. To teach the child the best method of cooking starch. 

2. To give the child a knowledge of the nutritive value of 
the potato and its best method of cooking it. 

3. To correlate the work with other subject of the school 
curriculum with the end in view of placing home industries 
in the child's mind on the same educational basis as the other 
subjects in the curriculum. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To learn how to cook the potato. 

Suggested Questions 

What is the potato ? How grown ? How dug ? What do you 
see upon examining it? Cut and look inside; feel it. Look at 
it through a hand lens. Do you see any fibers? Do you see a 
heavy rim near the outside skin? What is it? What influ- 
ence would this have on the way you peel the potato (the min- 
eral salts of the potato are located near the outer skin) ? Grate 
a potato into a cheese cloth, gather up the cloth, make a bag 
and squeeze it. Wash with the finger carefully in a pan of cold 
water, being very careful not to break an opening in the bag. 
Allow the water to stand some minutes; pour it of¥ carefully. 
What is in the bottom? Examine it carefully. INIix a part of 



80 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

it with a little cold water and boil. What happens? This 
starch is the substance which makes the potato a good food. 
Remove the fibres from the cloth and dry in a little pasteboard 
box on the back of the stove or in the sunshine. Examine. 

Do we eat potatoes raw ? Why not 1 How shall we cook 
them? What substance have we here to cook? (Starch and 
fiber, but starch is the important one). Try the effect of cold 
water on a little starch. Try hot water; boiling water. What 
happens in each case? Eeview these experiments carefully, and 
see if they suggest to your mind the best method of cooking a 
potato. (Cook the potato, if po.ssible, in the schoolroom, and 
utilize for school luncheon.) 

Related Sur.jects 

1. Geograpliy: 

A map showing the potato producing centers of the world. 

A discussion of soil and climate adapted to the growth of the 
potato. 

The importance of the potato as a domestic agricultural pro- 
duct. 

2. Nature Study and Gardening: 

Study the methods and germination of the potato. 

Study the methods of cultivation and harvesting of the 
potato. 

Study the insects affecting the growth and development of 
the potato, and how they may be destroyed. 

3. Construction Worli: 

Suitable wooden crates or bins for storing the potato for win- 
ter use. 

Woven holders for handling hot pots and kettles during the 
cooking. 

Hemming of dish towels for use in dish washing. 

4. EnglisJi: 

The keeping of notebooks by the pupils in which all subject- 
matter can be recorded and corrected. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 81 

Stories connected with the discovery of the potato, early use 
of the potato, etc. 

Give new words connected with the development of the les- 
son. 

Definition of new words and the use of same. 

Tell the story of the potato. 

The Story of the Irish Potato 

The first home of the potato was in South America. There it 
was found wild. Sometimes we call it the white potato, in 
order that we may know it from the sweet potato. Often it is 
called the Irish potato. Do you know why? It is because the 
people of Ireland use so many potatoes. It was carried to Ire- 
land from our own country over 300 years ago. It is now the 
principal food among the Irish peasants. 

We found that potatoes contain a great deal of starch. Much 
of the starch we use comes from potatoes. This useful, home- 
ly, everyday vegetable is found in almost ever country. It 
has been used in France for a long time. 

Shall I tell you about what happened to the first potato eaten 
in France? Well, a long, long time ago the Spaniards came to 
South America. They noticed that the people ate, and almost 
lived upon, what they thought was the large root of a vegetable 
called "battata." Battata means "papa" in our language. The 
Spaniards sent some of the battata to their friends in Spain, 
and these friends sent them to Italy, another country near 
France. Finally some were sent to Belgium, to the mayor of 
Nons, which is almost in France. 

The mayor liked the king of France very much, and wanted 
to send him a rare gift. So what did he do but send him a 
whole sack of potatoes. 

Henry II, King of France, invited the great lords and noble- 
men of his court to a feast. The potato was to be the important 
dish. When the potato appeared, the guests became very much 
excited. The King was the first to be served. He tasted it once, 
twice ; then passed it on in perfect silence. The lords and noble- 
• men did as he had done. What was the cause of the silence? 

6 — Econ. 



82 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

The cook had not boiled them before serving them with a deli- 
cious mayonnaise dressing. After the feast, the king had every 
potato thrown out of the city of Paris. 

About two weeks later, some soldiers were camping near the 
fortifications of the city. While sitting around the eampfire, 
it seemed to them as if a most appetizing odor came from the 
glowing ashes of the fire. They began to examine the ashes 
in order that they might) find the cause of this tempting smell. 
What a feast they had when at the end of the stick appeared 
one of the potatoes sent to the King of France. The soldiers 
ate them without the least fear, and they ate every one of them. 

The news of this lucky find reached the ears of the king, so 
he sent for more potatoes and gave another feast. 

The potato was served again, but was cooked this time, and 
the most particular guest could not find one word to say against 
it. 

Recipes 

To Prepare Potatoes. — Select smooth potatoes of uniform 
size for cooking at the same time. Wash and scrub with a small 
brush. If the potatoes are to be pealed, remove the thinnest 
possible layer of skin. 

If the potatoes are not to be used at once, drop into cold 
water to prevent discoloration. 

Keep a brush for cleaning vegetables. 

If the potatoes are old and somewhat shriveled, soak them 
for several hours before cooking. 

Baked Potatoes 

Prepare potatoes (unpeeled) ; 

Bake in a hot oven for about 40 m., or until soft. 

Remove from the oven; break the skin slightly, in 

order that the steam can escape. 
Serve as quickly as possible. 

Note: Properly baked potatoes are more easily digested than 
potatoes cooked any other way. They are better, however, when 
cooked in boiling water than when baked in a slow oven. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 83 

Boiled Potatoes 

Cook the potatoes in salted boiling water to cover 
until soft, and allow 
1 t. of salt to 
1 qt. of water. 

Determine softness by piercing with a fork. 

When the potatoes are done, drain immediately, 
sprinkle with a little salt, and let stand uncov- 
ered in a hot place until serving time. 

If the potatoes are boiled unpe^led (this is an ex- 
cellent method, as less mineral matter and 
no protein is lost from the potatoes), with a 
sharp knife cut a narrow band of 'skin from 
the center. This aids in removing the skin 
when the potatoes are served. 

Creamed Potatoes 

To make White Sauce, take — 
2 T. of butter— melt; add 
2 T. flour 
1/2 t. salt 

Blend well; add gradually 

1 C. milk 

Stir constantly; cook until of consistency of thick 
cream. 

Note: By the addition of 4 T. grated cheese, the dish may be 
called "Waldorf Mashed Potatoes." 

To the White Sauce add 

2 C. cooked potatoes — sliced or diced. 

Note: 1 T. of chopped parsley gives a pleasing flavor. 
For a chan-ge occasionally, add, when cooking the potatoes to be 
served as a creamed dish, 
A few slices of onion, and 
A few sprigs each of mint and parsley. 



84 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Mashed Potatoes 
To— 

5 medium sized boiled potatoes — ^mashed or riced, 
add — 
1 T. butter 
1 t. salt 
M-\2 C. scalded milk. 

Beat until creamy; pile lightly in heated dishes. 
Serve at once. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Butter baking dish. 

Arrange i^ inch layer of sliced or diced raw potatoes. 

Sprinkle with flour, salt, and a few grains of pepper, if de- 
sired. 

Dot with small bits of butter; repeat until dish is not more 
than 34 full. 

Pour on milk to just cover 

Cover with buttered bread crumb.s 

Bake from li^ to II/2 Ill's., or until potatoes are soft. 

Note: Grated cheese may be sprinkled between each layer to give 
variety. 

Potato Soup 
Cook— 

2 slices of onion — diced 

3 potatoes, sliced or diced 
1/2 t. of salt 

Boiling water to cover. 

Drain; save potato water, and add to potatoes 
after they have been mashed or diced. 

Make white sauce. 
3 T. butter — melt; add ^ 

2 T. flour 
1/2 t. salt. 

Stir until well blended; add gradually, 

3 C. milk 

Continue stirring until thoroughly hot. 
Combine the two mixtures, and add more seas- 
oning if necessary. 
Serve hot. 



LEGUMES 
DRIED PEAS, BEANS AND LENTILS 

Subject Matter 

Peas and beans are, like cereals, the seeds of plants. The 
young plant lives dormant in the seed; the seed contains plenty 
of food to nourish the plant during- its first growth. All that is 
necessary to cause germination is warmth and moisture. 

Owing to the larger amount of food stored up in these seed, 
especially the protein, peas and beans are the most nutritious 
vegetables we have. In fact, they are frequently called the 
"Poor man's meat." Beans and peas are among the very ear- 
liest of human foods. Frequent references are made to them in 
the Bible. The "mess of pottage" for which Jacob bartered 
his birthwright is supposed to have been a dish prepared of len- 
tils. 

The soy bean, which is so largely used in China, contains 
a portein which somewhat resembles the cvird of milk. A very 
good cheese is made from it. The bean has figured quite exten- 
sively in the history of our ow^n country from the famous 
"baked beans" of New England to the well known frijoles of 
Mexico. 

The cheapness and keeping qualities of dried peas and beans 
as well as their high nutritive value make them among the 
most valuable and popular of all of our foods. Owing to their 
deficiency in fats, we usually cook them with fat pork, or add 
other forms of fat to them. In Europe a favorite way of serv- 
ing the bean is with an oil made from poppy seed. 

References 

Farmers' Bulletin: 

Peas, Beans and other Legumes as Food, No. 121. 



86 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Lesson Plan 
Teacher's Aim: 

To teach the value of the leguminous foods in the dietary. 
To emphasize the cheapness of the dried legumes as compared 
to those canned. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To learn various methods of preparing the dried peas and 
beans. 

Suggested Questions 

How many kinds of beans and peas can you name? 
How many of them are grown on your farm or in your im- 
mediate neighborhood? 
How many persons will a pound can of baked beans serve ? 
How many will a pound of beans baked at home serve ? 
Why is it necessary to soak dried beans before cooking ? 

Related Subjects 

Nature Study: 

Germinate seeds so as to show how young plants draw nour- 
ishment. 

Texas History: 

Story of the ''Fatal Lottery," or "The Drawing of the Black 
and White Bean." 

Spelling : 

New words connecting with the , lesson and their definitions. 

Arithmetic: 

Compute and compare the cost of a can of baked beans and 
a pound of beans baked at home. 

English: 

Read the story of Daniel, who would not eat the King's meat 
but lived upon pulse or legumes. 



Simple Courses iii Home Economics ^ 87 

Recipes 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 C. navy beans. Soak several hours, drain, cover with 
fresh water, heat slowly, simmer until skins will burst. 
Just before removing from the flame add 

1/2 t. soda. Drain and add 

1/^ lb. fat salt pork, cut into small pieces 

11/2 T. salt 

2 T. molasses 

1 t. mustard, if desired 
Boiling water to cover beans. 

Set back; cover bean pot, bake slowly from 6 to 8 

hours. 
Add boiling water as needed. 

Note: An onion placed on the top of the beans while baking will 
add a delicious flavor. 

Lentil Loaf 

2 C. lentils — cooked and mashed 
1 egg — well beaten 

1 t. pepper 

2 T. lemon juice 
11/0 t. salt 

f. g. onion juice , 

Lentil liquid to moisten. 

Mix ingredients, place in buttered pan. Brush 
with white of egg. Bake 45 m. 

Serve hot with Tomato Sauce. 



88 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Split Pea Soup 

1 C. dried split peas — soak several hrs. Drain, add 
21/2 qts. cold water 

2 inch cube fat salt pork — cut into small pieces 
y2 onion 

Simmer the above ingredients 3 to 4 hrs. or until 
soft. 

Rub through a sieve 

Make White Sauce — 
2 T. butter melted 
2 T. flour 

Blend well, add gradually. 
2 C. milk, stir constantly 

Season with 
11/2 t. salt 
f. g. pepper 

Combine mixtures, reheat, serve hot. 

Note: The water in which a ham was cooked may be substituted 
for the water. If so, use less salt. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 



89 



MEAT. 

Facts About How the Body Uses Meat and How It Should 

BE Prepared 



Uses and Structures of Lean Meat. 

All the food nutrients needed by that body our found in our 
vegetables and fruits. As has been stated before, the body needs 
substances to build muscular tissues as well as to furnish heat 
and energy. The lean tissue of animals is one of the prin- 
cipal foods for this purpose. The tissue is made of bund- 
les which can be divided into smaller and small bundles until 
finally the division comes down to a singe fiber, which is an 
irregular shaped tube, but so small as to be invisible to the 
naked eye. 

magnified group of fibers and connecting tissue is shown 
IN the accompanying diagram. 




Structure of meat: 
A. Muscle fibre. 



B. Connective tissue. 
0. Fat cells. 



90 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

These muscular tubes have a distinct wall, are filled with a 
semi-fluid content, and are bound together in bundles by means 
of a thread-like sujbstance called connective tissue. 

How to Cook Meat. 

To cook any substance intelligently it is necessary to know 
of what it is composed, and at what temperature the material is 
best cooked to give the desired results. In the case of the meats 
we have in the muscular fibers substances called protein (pro'- 
te in), while the connective tissue binding these fibres together 
is a substance similar to gelatin. If protein is subjected to high 
temperature, as high as the boiling temperature, it toughens 
and shrinks. A high temperature, or the boiling temperature, 
is therefore not the best suited to keep the meat juicy and 
tender. Also a long continued boiling temperature melts the 
gelatin in the meat to such an extent that it runs out into the 
water, leaving a stringy, dry, shrunken mass .of fibres. For 
these reasons then, meat should not boil, but be cooked at a 
temperture just below the boiling point, or about 185 degrees 
Fahrenheit. If it is very tough, it should be cooked below the 
boiling point for a long period of time. Here the fireless cook- 
er is an excellent means of cooking, as a temperature below the 
boiling point is in this way maintained for a long time. 

If the meats are too tough add a small amount of vinegar or 
lemon juice to the water in which they are cooked. The acid 
acts upon the connective tissue and softens it. Meat may also 
be made more tender by keeping it for a few days. Protect 
meat from spoiling by rubbing it with a mixture of salt and a 
little ginger and pepper, and keep in a cool place several days 
before cooking. When meat is thus kept for a few days, the 
muscles grow less rigid and an acid forms in the tissues which 
tenders and softens the fibres. 

In cooking meats, this further consideration should be borne 
in mind; when it is put into cold water and slowly brought to 
the boiling point, a large amount of nourishment is extracted 
in the water, while if it is quickly seared on the outside cut 
surface by plunging into boiling water or placing in hot skil- 
let or oven and turning quickly for a few minutes, the juices 



Simjjle Courses in Home Economics 91 

are kept in. The proper method to pursue in cooking meat is 
therefore entirely determined by the end in view. In making 
a soup, the object is to extract as much as possible of the nutri- 
ment. In making a stew some of the nutriment should be ex- 
tracted into the gravy and a part left in the meat ; in broiling a 
steak, all the nutriment possible should be left in the steak. 

Cuts of Beef. 

In using beef in the home one should know the various cuts 
into which the animal is divided and the uses of these cuts as 
food. The accompanying diagram sho-ws the various beef cuts: 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 93 

Digestibility of Meats. 

Beef is among the easily digested meats. Cooking tends to 
lessen the digestibility of any meat. Raw or undone beef is a 
food which patients with very weak stomachs can digest. Cook- 
ing, however, improves the flavor and appearance, kills the pos- 
sible parasites and germs present, and in tough meats it tenders 
and softens the fibres, and thus aids digestion. 

Mutton is as digestible as beef. Figures indicate that 99 
per cent, of the protein of mutton is digested. It is a much 
more wholesome food than pork or veal for growing children 
and an economical meat to raise and slaughter on the farm. 

The meat of chicken is easily digested, especially the breast. 
The breast fibres are short and the connective tissues is less 
abundant. The principles of cooking meat apply to the cook- 
ing of chicken. 

Pork is probably the meat most used in the farm home. This 
is unfortunate, for pork is the most indigestible of all our meat 
foods. This is due to the large amount of fat between the mus- 
cular fibres of the meat. Experiments show that it takes three 
hours to digest three and a half ounces of pork, while the same 
amount of beef is digested in two hours. Smoked breakfast 
bacon is an exception. It is easily digested when properly 
cooked, and is a valuable food in the diet of children. 

References 
Farmers' Bulletins: 

Economical Uses of Meat in the Home, No. 391. 

Meat Composition and Cooking, No. 34. 
University of Texas Bulletin: 

Cooking of Tough Meat. No. 344. 
BooUs: 

Hutchinson : Food and Dietetics, pp. 59-75. 

Fisher and Williams : Elements of the Theory and Practice 
of Teaching Cookery, 

Lesson Plan 
Teacher's Aim: 

To teach the value of meat as food. 

To teach proper methods of preparing meats. 



94 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

To teach suitable and attractive ways of preparing meat 

dishes for the school lunch. 
To emphasize the interrelation of this work to other subjects. 

Pupil's Aitn: 

To learn best method of cooking meats. 

Suggested Questions 

Can fruits and vegetables constitute an entire diet? 

"What are the general differences between vegetables and ani- 
mal food ? Note : In meat we have a new food substance called 
animal protein. It is found in all animal flesh and tissue. It 
is also found in milk, eggs, cheese, fish. Plant protein is found 
in beans, peas, and nuts. All protein is used by the body to 
build and repair muscular tissue, and is essential in every day's 
diet. 

Experiment to Determine tlie Composition of Meat: 

Scrape a small piece of beef. Compare with the potato. 

Notice connective tissues and fiber. See diagram to distinguish 
fiber and connective tissue. Make drawing on board. 

Drop iodine on a piece of meat. Note results. Compare with 
iodine on the potato. 

Add some cold water to the scraped meat. Note results. 

Boil this water and compare it with the water boiled with the 
potato and the apple. The water from the meat when boiled is 
filled with flecks of solid material floating about. This indi- 
cates that something has come from the meat and the heat has 
coagulated it. It is the substance called protein. The water 
from the potato when boiled resulted in a paste, indicating 
starch; the water from the apple when boiled resulted in a 
syrup, indicating sugar. 

MetJiod of Cooking Protein: 

Boil a thick piece of beef three hours. 

Boil a similar piece of beef three minutes and push to back 
of stove where it cannot boil. Cook slowly three or four hours. 

Compare. Which is more tender? Which is more juicy? 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 95 

Why do the fibres fall apart in the first one? Note: (The 
boiling toughens the fibres and dissolves out the gelatin. That 
is. why it is better to cook meats below the boiling point. 

To prepare meat for cooking 

Remove from the wrapping paper at once. 

Keep in a cool, dry place. 

See that the meat is free from all foreign particles. 

Wipe all meat with a clean, damp cloth. 

Note: Wash chicken — after it is free from pinfeathers and care- 
fully singed, with ivory soap ft,nd warm water. Rinse thoroughly. 

How to Make 3Ieat Soup: 

In using meats to make soup, we wish to extract all the juices 
from the meat. To do this, cut the meat into small pieces, soak 
in cold water one hour and put it in this same water over the 
fire. Bring slowly to the boiling point, set on back of stove and 
let simmer until meat drops to pieces. Remember that if meat 
Is allowed to boil, the proteins are hardened on the outside, 
the juices cannot be extracted, and the soup will lack flavor. 

Vegetables and salt should be added the last hour of cooking — 
potatoes the last half hour. Skim ofl:' all fat and serve soup hot. 
Soups made in this way can be very successfully cooked in the 
fireless cooker after being brought to the boiling point on the 
range. A soup bone from the hind shank of the beef cooked this 
way makes excellent soup. 

Related Work 

Geography : 

Draw 2 maps showing — 

The beef-raising centers of Texas. 

The center o:^ the beef industry of the United States. 

Agriculture. 

Make a study of the Baby Beef Clubs. 
Are beef raising localities also agricultural? 



96 Bulletin of tJie University of Texus 

Physiology. 

Review of digestive organs and digestion of starch and sugar. 
Study digestion of protein and fat. 

Drawing. 

Make drawing of the beef and show various cuts. 
Make drawing of chicken, and color with crayon. 
Model in clay. 

Hand Work. 

Making of simple homemade fireless cookers. 
Making of wooden skewers. 

A HOMEMADE FIRELESS COOKER 




A — Candy bucket. C. — Cushion. 

B.— Pail. D.— Cover. 

This homemade fireless cooker was made at a cost of fifty- 
four cents. The materials necessary are: One candy bucket; 
one one-quart granite pail, excelsior or hay, newspaper, heavy 
domestic or canvas, asbestos mat, hooks and screw eyes. 

See that the bucket is perfectly clean and line the sides and 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 97 

bottom with several thicknesses of newspaper. In the bottom 
pack about four inches of sawdust or finely chopped hay as 
hard as it can be packed. Place the granite pail on top of this 
packing in the center of the bucket, and pack sawdust or hay 
all around it. When this is done, pull the pail out of the hay 
or sawdust carefully, leaving a hole the size of the bucket. 
Make a lining for the opening left, using the cloth for this pur- 
pose. At the bottom of the hole fit a piece of asbestos. This 
will help to keep the heat from escaping. Next make a pad of 
newspaper and sawdust covered with cloth to fit the top of the 
bucket, cover the pail and hold in the heat. Make a wooden top 
also to fit snugly over the bucket. This helps to prevent the 
cold air from entering the bucket and the heat from escaping. 
Arrange hooks and screw eyes on the lid and bucket with which 
to hold the lid in place. 

Englisli. 

"Dissertation on Eoast Pig." By Charles Lamb. 

New words connected with the lesson ; their definition and use. 

Notebook work. Composition. Story-telling. (A few stories 
are suggested here.) 

The Last Buffalo Round-up in Texas 

The buffalo played an important role in the life of primitive 
man. The American Indian hunted this animal and used its 
flesh for food and its skin for clothes. 

Each year the Indians had a great buffalo round-up. Only 
within the last few years has the custom ceased. The following 
story is told of the last round-up in Texas. 

In the Panhandle of Texas, near the city of Goodnight, a tribe 
of Indians used to hold each year their Buffalo festival and kill 
the winter supply of buffalo meat as the great herds came down 
from the mountains to winter on the Texas plains. As the 
white man slew more and more of the buffalos in the mountains 
each year, the herds grew less and less. Finally they almost 
ceased to exist. The disappointed and waiting Indians, not 
knowing what had happened, felt that the Great Spirit was 
angry and decided to appease his wrath and get him to send 

7 — Econ. 



■98 Bulletm of the University of Texas 

the buffalo herd again. The medicine man, or the priest of the 
tribe, mounted upon a snow white pony bare-back and rode up 
into the Pala Dura canyon alone. There with his bow and 
arrow he slew a straggling buffalo, and taking out the heart 
and liver, came back to brew a ' ' Strong. Medicine ' ' and have a 
great religious dance of his tribe in order to get the help of 
the Great Spirit. A fire was built in the sacred pot, the buffalo 
heart was put on to brew the "medicine," while the whole tribe 
sang, and howled, and danced in a circle around the pot; calling 
upon the spirits. 

As the ceremony continued, the dancing and shouting grew 
wider. For two days and nights without ceasing it continued, 
but no buffalo appeared. Some of the Indiana became exhausted ; 
some fell dead in their tracks, but many still continued the dance 
through another day. The circle gradually grew smaller, but 
the dancing and screaming became more and more frantic. Still 
no buffalo came. 

At last in despair the Medicine Men threw up their hands and 
-declared that the "medicine" was not strong enough, and it 
must all be done again, or some other plan tried. The tired, 
frenzied, and starving Indians broke file and fell with blood- 
curdling whoops on their ponies, slaying them and drinking their 
blood. This was the last attempt to round-up the buffalo. The 
day of the buffalo and the Indian had passed, and the plains of 
Texas were henceforth for domestic animals and civilized man. 

See lesson on "Out-of-door Picnic" for story of the origin 
of the cooking of meat. 

Recipes 

Beef Stew 

Cuts used for stews — brisket, rump, best part of neck. 
2 lbs. of meat — cut into small serving pieces. 

Brown I/3 of the amount. 

Cover with cold water. 

Bring to the boiling point. 

Cook slowly for 3 or 4 hours, or until tender, then 
add 



SiMple Courses in Home Economics 99 

% C. tomatoes 

1 C. cooked string beans 

Season as desired. 

Note: Potatoes, onions, carrots — sliced or diced, may be added or 
substituted; also cold cooked rice, cream of wbeat, macaroni or spa- 
ghetti. 

The stew may be prepared in the fireless cooker. 

Do not ordinarily serve all of the vegetables suggested, at one time. 

Hamburger Steak 

Force steak through meat grinder 
Add pieces of fat meat if desired 
Season with salt, pepper and onion juice or onion 
salt 
Proportions: 
1 pt. meat 
3/2 t. salt 
i/s t. pepper 
l^ t. onion juice or salt. 

Mix thoroughly, shape into flat cakes one-half inch 

in thickness. 
Pan broil, 6 m. if liked rare, 10 m. well done. 
Serve cakes, spread with Maitre d 'Hotel butter, 
around a mould of potatoes with buttered cauli- 
flower or other vegetable in the corners of the 
platter. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Flank Steak 

To prepare follow directions for Swiss steak, then 

Steam two hours 

To make gravy — 
2 T. fat 
2 T. flour 

Brown in skillet in which meat was prepared, add 
1 C. liquid — liquor from meat, water, milk or cream. Add 

gradually, stir constantly. 



100 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Cook until consistency of thick cream. 
Season to taste. 

Meat Loaf 

2 lb. round of beef — run through meat grinder 

1 T. parsley — chopped 

2 T. butter 

1 egg — slightly beaten 

% t. onion juice 

^ t. pepper 

1 t. salt 

1 C. softened bread crumbs 

Mix ingredients 

Shape into loaf. 

Bake 30 to 45 m. 

Baste often with hot water to which butter has 
been added. 

Serve with brown gravy or tomato sauce. 

Siviss Steak 

Cuts used (tough meat) 

Round — score 

Flank — ^scored in shop 

Skirt — scored in shop 

Knead into meat 
14 C. flour. 

Note: Omit the flour once in a while for variety. 

Brown in skillet, using suet or other fat 
Cover steak with boiling water 
Cook slowly in covered skillet until tender 
Season and serve with gravy (See Flank Steak) 
Time required, 40 m. to IVo hrs. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 101 

MILK 
Subject Matter 

Milk is an especially valuable food because it contains prac- 
tically all the food materials needed by babies and also most 
of the most important food materials needed by adults, though 
not in the right proportions. It is most valuable for growing 
children as it is in most eases easily digested and furnishes in 
its protein and mineral substances that which is needed to build 
muscle and bone. It supplies also fats and sugars, which food- 
stuffs are needed to furnish heat and energy necessary for work 
and play. In addition to the liquid milk, the more concentrated 
milk products, such as butter and cheese, have high food value. 

Sweet milk should be used as a drink for both children and 
adults, especially for children. It should also be used freely in 
the preparation of other foods, such as custards, cream soups, 
creamed vegetables, breads and milk toast. The milk used for 
cooking should be skimmed, and the cream served on various 
cereals and desserts and in salad dressings. Any remaining 
cream should be made into butter. 

The skim milk may be used as a drink as well as in the prep- 
aration of many foods, such as soups, chowders, gravies, custards, 
bread, biscuit, and the like. The skim milk contains all the food 
properties of the whole milk excepting the fat. A small amount 
of fat is also often left on account of imperfect skimming. Skim 
milk, taken together with bread and vegetables, forms a very 
nourishing diet. Two and one-half quarts of skim milk furnish 
the same amount of protein and have abount the same food value 
as a pound of steak. The following is a 

List of Foods Equal in Food Value to One Quart of Milk 

Food Amount 

Apples 9% medium. 

Bananas 6i/^ large. 

Bread (white) 61/0 half -inch slices. 



102 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Food Amount 

Butter 6% tablespoons. 

Cabbage 2 heads medium large. 

Carrots 26, medium. 

Cheese, cream 9 tablespoons ( l^ cup ) 

Cheese, cottage 2% cups. 

Chocolate almond bars 3i/2 bars. 

Cream % cup. 

Crackers, graham 21 

Crackers, soda 26 

Dates 26 

Eggs 8 medium, or 6 large. 

Grits % cup. 

Macaroni uncooked 1% cups. 

Peanuts unshelled Vs pound. 

Potatoes 9% medium. 

Raisins . i/^ pound. 

Rice % cup. 

In addition to its value for the family, skim milk is of great value 
in the rearing of pigs, calves, and poultry. 

Buttermilk is a highly nutritious and palatable! drink, and 
furnishes more nourishment than any other natural beverage 
except whole milk and skim milk. For many people buttermilk 
is much more palatable and digestible than whole milk or skim 
milk. An ordinary glass of buttermilk contains as much nour- 
ishment as two ounces of bread or a good-sized potato. In addi- 
tion to its actual food value, it is now thought by many of the 
best medical men that buttermilk has a great value, because of 
the bacteria which it contains, in promoting health and in de- 
stroying undesirable bacteria that grow in the intestines. 

If milk is not handled carefully, it sours because of the mi- 
croscopic plants called bacteria which get into it and multiply, 
producing there an acid. These plants are everywhere, in the 
air, on the hands of the milker, and in dust and dirt of all kinds. 
Milk is an excellent food for these plants, and they grow and 
multiply rapidly in milk unless it is kept quite cold. Because of 
these bacteria, milk should be handled with great care for clean- 
liness, and should be kept at as low a temperature as possible. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 103 

It is impracticable to keep all of these bacteria out of milk, but 
by allowing only a very small number to get in, and by keeping 
the milk at a temperature below 60 degrees Fahrenheit, the sour- 
ing process is very greatly delayed. 

Sour milk is relished by many when eaten as clabber or made 
into cottage cheese. 

A good recipe for cottage cheese may be found in the cheese 
lesson. 

The composition of milk is as follows : 

Water 87.0 % 

Fat 4.0 % 

Protein 3.3 '/o 

Carbohydrates 5.0 % 

Ash 7 % 

References 
Farwyers' Bulletins: 

Care of Milk in the Home. Xo. 63. 

Bacteria in Milk. No. 490. ~\ 

The Use of Milk as Food. No. 363. 

Cheese Making on The Farm. No. 161. / j 

Lesson Plan 
Teacher's Aim: 
To show the necessity of a clean milk supply. 
To teach the nutritive value and cooking of milk. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To study milk and its uses. 

Suggested Questions 

How many drink milk? 
"What kind do you like best? 
What is the difference ? 
What makes milk sour? 

How do these bacteria get into milk? (Discuss bacteria, their 
growth, etc.) 



104 Bulletin of the TJniversity of Texas 

What care must be taken in handling milk? (Show pictures 
of good and poor handling of milk.) 

What is the curd in the sour milk? 

What other substances do we find in milk? (Give composi- 
tion of milk.) 

Discuss the food value of milk, of skim milk, of butter milk. 

In how many ways can milk be used in the home? (Make a 
list of these suggestions on the blackboard.) 

Related Work 
Agriculture : 

If possible give the Babeock test. Test milk with litmus paper 
for acidity. 

Discuss healthy cows and the tuberculine test. 

Study clean milk production and the nature of bacteria. 

Mathematics: 

Compute per cent, of butter fat in a given sample of milk. 

How many pounds of butter can be made from one gallon of 
milk? 

Determine from the use of the Babeock test which cows in 
your father's herd are not paying for themselves. 

Drawing : 

Draw a picture; showing a sanitary and unsanitary type of 
milk pail. 

English : 

Write up note books and recipes. Learn to spell and define 
all new words. 

Read Kipling's "William the Conqueror," in "Day's Work." 

Recipes 

Caramel Baked Custard. 

14 C. sugar — caramelize 
14 C. sugar 
f, g. salt 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 105 

2 C. milk 

3 eggs — slightly beaten. 

Combine ingredients. 

Bake in a moderate oven. 

Set mould in a pan of water. 

After the custard has set, insert a steel knife — if 

the custard does not stick to the knife it is suf- 

ficently baked. 
Serve cold. 

Caramel Junket 

Ys C. sugar — caramelize, add 
Vs C. boilino- water. 

Cook until syrup is reduced to % C. cool, add 
2 C. milk — scalded (luke warm) 
f. g. salt. 
1 t. vanilla 
1 Junket tablet — powdered. 

Turn into mould — a large glass dish or sherbet 
glasses. 

Let stand in warm place to set. 

Cover ?tvi,th whipped cream and sprinkle wiith 
chopped nuts. 

Corn Choivder 

iy2 inch cup fat salt pork — cut into small pieces, try out. Add 

1 onion — sliced — brown in fat 

2 C. potatoes — sliced or diced 

1 t. salt 

2 C, boiling water. 

Combine these ingredients. 
Cook until potatoes are soft, add 
1 C. corn 

4 C. scalded milk. 

Heat to the boiling point, add 
8 common — buttered crackers. 



106 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Season as desired. 

Serve at once. Amount serves 6. 

Tapioca Custard Pudding 

% C. pearl tapioca — soak 1 h. in cold water, drain, add to 
4 C. scalded milk 

Cook in double boiler 30 m. or until transparent. 
Add 
1/2 C. sugar 
1 t. salt 
1 T. butter 
3 eggs — slightly beaten. 

Turn into buttered baking dish, bake 30 m. in slow 
oven. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 107 

PEANUTS 

Subject Matter 

The peanut is not a nut. It is a pea and belongs to the same 
family as the common pea and bean. The term nut was ap- 
plied because the flavor is similar to that of true nuts. This 
pea deserves to hold as high rank among the foodstuffs used 
by man as do beans and other peas. Peanuts, like peas and 
beans, are a concentrated food. They contain more fat and less 
starch than the other legumes, but have about the same amount 
of protein, or muscle-building food. 

The high value of the peanut as a inuscle-Tjiiilding food. — 
Legumes have a high nutritive value and contain a large per cent 
of protein or muscle-building substance. Few of our vegetable 
foodstuffs contain more than 10 per cent or 15 per cent protein, 
while the legumes have from 20 per cent to 30 per cent and there 
are many varieties from which to chose. The protein, or muscle- 
building food, is a daily necessity in our diet, and in the form 
of meat, or eggs, or cheese, is one of the most expensie food sub- 
stances. The peanut, therefore, so rich in protein, is strongly 
to be recommended to those to whom economy is important, as 
it is, especially when raised at home, a comparatively cheap 
source of protein. 

Peanuts are not indigestihle if properly used. — Peanuts are 
thought by many to be indigestible. They have gained this repu- 
tation because usually they have been improperly prepared and 
eaten in large quantities after a hearty meal or between meals, 
or late at night. They are, as a rule, poorly masticated. The 
peanut, therefore, has caused digestive troubles and fallen into 
disrepute because of its abuse rather than its use. 

Bides for preparing peanuts. — The peanut, in order to be 
properly digested, should be regarded as a rich leguminous food, 
should be properly prepared, and used only in its proper place 
as any other member of the legume family is used. In the use 
and preparation of the peanut, the following things should be 
kept in mind: 



108 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Peanuts are high in protein and consequently take the place 
of meat in the dietary. 

Peanuts are high in fats and can be used in place of 
other fats. For example : peanut sandwiches may be prepared 
without the addition of butter, and peanut bread does not need 
shortening, as the peanut furnishes a sufficient quantity of fat 
in both instances. 

Peanuts contain raw starch and therefore must be cooked 
before they are disgestible. They can be parched as roasted pea- 
nuts, or they may be prepared as are the peas and beans. The 
same pleasant flavor does not develop, however, when they are 
cooked in the latter way. 

Peanuts are a highly concentrated food and should be 
thoroughly broken up before reaching the stomach. This may 
be accomplished by thorough mastication, or by chopping or 
grinding. When a food substance reaches the stomach in a state 
of fine division, it is more quickly digested and more thoroughly 
utilized. 

References 

Farmers' Bvlletin: 

''The Peanut." No. 431. 

"xMuts and Their Uses as Food." No. 332. 
University of Texas Bulletin: 

"The Use of the Peanut on the Home Table." No. 13. 
Bulletin issued by W. R. Beattie (Agricultural Commissioner 

Cotton Belt Railway), "Peanuts." 
Farm and Ranch, Oct. 4, 1913. 

"The Rise of the Lowly Peanut." 
Maine Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin: 

"Nuts as Food." No. 54. 

Lesson PlxVN. 
Teacher's Aim: , 

To impress the dietetic value of the peanut on the home table. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To study its use and preparation for the table. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 



109 



Leading questions in the lesson: 

How many raise peanuts at home? Why do you raise them? 
In what ways may peanuts be used? Are they a valuable food 
substance for the home table ? Give diagram. Study the dia- 
gram. 



PEANUT 

(not a true nut) 




PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION 



.25.8 

J 
FROTEIN 



^8.6 



. FAT 



J 



^o 



mm 



CARBOHYDRATES. A5H. WATER, 



Compare the peanut with the potato ; with egg ; with rice. 
What other foods are similar to the peanut ? Do you need meat 
when the peanut is used? Many think it is indigestible. How 
do you account for this? How would you roast the peanuts? 
How are the peanuts ground or crushed? 

The following is a simple method of making peanut butter: 
The peanuts should be roasted before or after shelling, but 
in either case the oven should be only moderately hot, and the 
peanuts stirred frequently. After roasting, rub off the skins. 
In grinding use the finest plate on the grinder, and screw up 
the tension until the crank is quite hard to turn. If the pulp 
is too coarse after one grinding, it may be run through a second 



110 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

time. It will not be necessary to add anything but a little salt 
to the butter, but if desired the butter may be thinned by the 
addition of a little olive oil or peanut oil. The peanut butter 
made this way will, if kept in a cool place, keep several weeks, 
but will not keep indefinitely. There are on the market grind- 
ers made especially for preparing peanut butter. These grind- 
ers do not crush so many of the oil cells in the peanut, and the 
butter keeps fresh a longer time. 

Related Work. 
Agriculture: 

Raise peanuts in the school garden. 

Aritlimetic : 

Make out recipes required to serve all of the pupils of your 
room with any of the following recipes. Determine the cost 
for all and for the individual serving. 

EnglisTi : 

Read Mr. Beattie's bulletin on the peanut, the history and 
the origin of the peanut. 

Write up note book and recipes. 

Write composition on the value of the peanut as food. 

Spelling: 

Learn to spell and define all new words used in the lesson. 

Recipes. 

Peanut Chops. 

6 slices bread — cut in shape desired; 

Spread each slice with 
2-3 T. peanut butter; 

Dip buttered bread in mixture made from 
1 egg — beaten; 
6 T. milk or cream. 

Roll in bread crumbs. 

Bake in hot oven until brown. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 111 

Peanut Sandividhes. 

Shell and peel off inner skin of roasted peanuts, then chop 
very fine and spread them thickly on slices of buttered bread; 
sprinkle lightly with salt before putting slices together. 

Peanut Soup. 

1 C. roasted peanuts — ground; 

Add to White Sauce made of 

2 T. butter; 
2 T. flour; 
11/2 t. salt; 
4 C. milk. 

Bring to the boiling point, serve at once. 



112 Bulletin of the Vniversity of Texas 

PLANNING AND SERVING A DINNER. 

Subject Matter. 

Much is being said these days about the balanced ration for 
stock. The farmer feeds his hogs, cattle, and chickens carefully. 
He weighs and measures their food in order that the diet may 
meet the individual requirement. How about his children ? 
They also need careful feeding. Food is needed to build up new 
tissue, repair waste, and furnish the necessary fuel for all energy. 
Children and adults need a balanced ration. The foods which 
are selected for each meal should be those that contribute to 
some special needs of the body, and these foods should be ad- 
ministered in approximately the right amount to meet these re- 
quirements. It is impossible for the housewife to weigh and 
measure everything, but with a knowledge of food values and 
by a careful selection of foods a balanced ration can easily be 
maintained. The following is a simple rule whereby balanced 
meals may be planned: Select one simple protein food: add a 
small amount of digestible fat, as butter or cream; one vege- 
table that is rich in sugar or starch; and one or two foods that 
are rich in mineral salts, also contain bulk, juciness. and flavor. 
The following dinners are well balanced meals, that have been 
selected with the above principles in mind, and are well suited 
to a family where there are school children : 

Chicken Pie. 
Bread. Butter. Plum Jelly. 

Sweet Potatoes. 
Norwegian Prune Pudding. 
Milk. 

Beef Birds. 

Rice. String Beans. 

Corn Bread. 

Canned Peaches and Sponge Cake. 

Milk. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 113 

Peanut Chops. 

Baked Potato. Biscuit. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Caramel Junket. 

Milk. 

The next menu gives not only the materials, but the amounts 
required for a person at moderately active work. 
Clear Soup — 1 cup 

Mock Duck (round steak) — 1-5 pound 
Baked Potato — 1 large 
Scalloped Cabbage — 1 serving 
Apple Short Cake and Cream — medium serving. 

References 

Bulletins of the Uriiversity of Texas. 
Menu Making. Bulletin No. 282. 
Uses of Foods and the Proper Balancing of the Dietary. No. 

276. 
Cooking Tough Meats. No. 344. 
Peanut on the Home Table. No. 13. 
Table Setting and Serving. No. . 

Lesson Plan 
TeacJier's Aim: 

To teach the principles of good menu making. 
To teach the proper method of serving a meal. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To assist in the preparation and serving of dinner. 
To cook and serve dinner at home if possible — at least to 
assist. 

Suggested Questions 

What care is taken in the feeding of stock at your home? 
Is the same care taken with the meals that are planned in the 
household? Why not? • 

Why are the foods weighed and measured? 

What principles should be kept in mind in planning a meal? 

8 — Econ. 



, 114 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Order of Work: 

Study of menus given. 

Have each pupil write out a suitable dinner menu for a fam- 
ily where there are school children. 

Allow the class to discuss and criticise these menus. 

Compare them with those suggested here. 

Decide upon a menu, determine the amount necessary to serve 
a given number of guests, and prepare and serve the meal. 

Related Work 

Mathematics: 

Compute the entire cost of dinner; the cost of a dinner per 
person. 

Drawing: 

Make place cards for the dinner. Draw a diagram of a prop- 
erly set table. 

English: 

Write up notebooks, copy recipes. Learn to spell and define 
all new words used in this lesson. Find as much as possible on 
the table service and foods of the different countries. 

The following .stories are taken from the "Domestic Science 
Reader," by L. L. W. Wilson: 

The Eskimo Dinner 

'-'The chief meal time at which the food is. when possible, hot, 
is toward evening. In winter they go to bed, as a rule, imme- 
diately afterward, and get up very early, often at 2 a. m., to 
partake of a cold repast. When it can be managed, that is, 
when food is not, as it often is, scarce, the five meals fill up the 
greater part of the day. Nothing is eaten raw, unless necessity 
compels — at most, an occasional bit of blubber. The meat is 
thrown into a wooden trough a yard long, and cut up small by 
the lady of the house. Then all fall to with their fingers. The 
broth is served out in little wooden bowls, or tin pannikins. The 
favorite foods are the flesh, dried blood, or contents of the stom- 
ach of a reindeer, a mixture of fresh and half-hatched eggs, an- 



Simple Courses in Home Economics' 115 

gelica roots, and cranberries, the heads of freshly caught fish, 
and the like. Before spirits found their way thither, fresh 
water, often cooled with ice or snow, was the Eskimo's sole drink. 
It is kept in wooden tubs, prettily inlaid with plates and rings 
of bone, and a dipping cup is always at hand." 

A Japanese jMeal 

"Each person is separately served on a small table or tray. 
For his solid food he uses chopsticks, but his soup he drinks 
from a small lacquered bowl. Upon his table will be found a 
small procelain bowl of rice, and dishes upon which are relishes 
of fish, etc., a teapot, for the contents of which a saucer instead 
of a cup is used. 

The stimulants will be either tea or rice-beer. - The tea is 
native green, and no milk or sugar is used. It is drunk on every 
possible occasion, and is even served when one visits a shop. 
The tea apparatus is always in readiness in the living-room. A 
laborer going to work carries with him a box of lacquered wood 
for his rice, a kettle, a tea-caddy, a teapot, a cup, and chop- 
sticks. 

Rice being the principal article of food, a servant kneels 
near-by with a large panful. She replenishes the bowls as they 
are held out to her. Bread is seldom used. Other favorite foods 
are gigantic radishes, lotus roots, young bamboo .shoots, cucum- 
bers, of which a single person will often eat three and four in a 
day, and the egg-plant. 

"With fruits the Japanese is scantily supplied, but the per- 
simmon, a brilliant, orange-colored fruit, the size of an apple, 
is common enough." 

Recipes 

pudding sauces 

Caramel Sauce. 

% C. sugar: — caramelize 
% C. boiling water 

Simmer 10 m. Serve cold 



116 Bulletin of tJie University of Texas 

Chocolate Sauce 
4 T. flour 

4 t. ground chocolate 
4 T. sugar 
f. g. salt 

Blend; add gradually 

1 C. boiling water 

Cook 10 m. in double boiler. Stir constantly until 
thickened. Add 

2 T. butter 
1 t. vanilla 

Serve hot 
Note: Excellent as an accompaniment to cottage pudding, puddings 
made with apples and scalloped apples. 

Hard Sauce. 

6 T. butter — thoroughly cream, add gradually 

1 C. powdered sugar (granulated may be used), add 

1 t. lemon or vanilla extract. 

Note: As a variation — add the white of 1 egg — beaten stiff and 
2-3 C. crushed fruit — strawberries, grated raw apple, or prunes. 

Foamy Sauce. 

1-3 C. butter — cjeamed, add gradually 

1 C. sugar 

yolks 3 eggs — well beaten 

1-3 C. boiling water. 

Cook in double boiler until thickened, stir con- 
stantly. Kemove from fire, add 

1 T. lemon juice or 1 t. lemon extract 
f. g. grated lemon rind. 

Serve hot. 

Fruit Sauce 
% C. sugar 

2 T. flour 
1/2 t. salt 

Blend ; then add 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 117 

2 C. fruit juice 

Cook until the consistency of thick cream, add 
2 T. butter 
11/2 T. lemon juice 
Serve hot. 
Note: This sauce may be made from the juice of prunes, apples, 
strawberries, plums, and is especially good served with bread, cake 
or cottage pudding. 

Lemon Sauce 

1/2 C. sugar 
11/2 T. flour 
f. g. salt. 

Blend; add gradually 

1 C. holing water 

Cook until consistency of thick cream. Remove 
from fire, add 

2 T. butter 

1^ T. lemon juice or 1 t. lemon extract 
f.- g. nutmeg. 

Serve hot. 
Note: Orange juice may be substituted for the lemon juice. 

Soft Custard 

2 C. milk — scald 

3 egg yolks — beat slightly 

4 T. sugar 
f. g. salt. 

Combine ingredients. Cook until mixture thickens. 

Stir constantly. Flavor with 

1 t. vanilla. 

Note: Should the custard curdle, beat with Dover egg beater until 
smooth. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Note: Use the proportions given for lemon sauce — substitute as 
flavoring 1 t. vanilla. 



118 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

QUICK BREADS 

Subject Matter 

Quick breads include biscuit, muffins, griddle cakes, and the 
like. They are so-called to distinguish them from yeast breads, 
which require a long period of time for preparation. 

All mixtures of flour and liquid when cooked alone, are hard 
and indigestible. These mixtures should have materials added 
to them which make them light and delicate. The light bread 
is made light by yeast, a slow growing plant, and the quick 
bread are made light by the use of baking powder, soda, or by 
the expansion of steam. Soda is used with sour milk or butter- 
milk, and from one-third to one-half teaspoonful is sufficient to 
neutralize the acidity in one cup of milk. When a larger quan- 
tity is used the quick bread has a yellow color and a bad flavor. 
"When these materials are used in cooking, a gas is given off 
called carbon dioxide gas. It is this gas that makes the quick 
breads light. Baking powder is used with sweet milk or water. 
In baking powder we have a mixture of soda and an acid sub- 
stance such as cream of tartar, alum or phosphate. When this 
material is added to water, carbon dioxide gas also is given off 
and this gas makes the baking powder mixtures light. 

Many kinds of flour and meal are used in making these quick 
breads. The most common in Texas are corn meal, white and 
graham flour, kafir, milo, and Egyptian wheat meal. 

The kafir meal is especially well flavored and nutritious. In 
localities where kafir corn grows in abundance this meal is more 
economical than corn meal and can be judiciously used in its 
place. 

References 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 559, Uses of Kafir, Milo and Cow Peas 
in the Home. 

Theorji and Practice of Cookery. Fisher & Williams. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 119 

Lesson Plan 

Teacher's Aim: 

To teaeli the use of soda and baking powder. 

To show the use of the various quick bread flours or meals. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To prepare good biscuit and muffins. 

Suggested Q-uestions 

What kind of breadstuff did you have for supper last night? 

What is the difference between light bread and quick bread? 

Make a list of the quick breads that you know. 

What flour and meals are used in making quick breads? 

How are these breads made light? 

Try the following* experiments.: 

Add 1/4 c. of water to 1 t. of soda. 

Add 1/4 C. of sour milk to 1 t. of soda. 

Add 1/4 C. of water to 1 t. of baking powder. 
Note results in each case. Explain. 
When do we use soda? 
When do we use baking powder? 

Related Work 

Science : 

Study acids and carbonates. Manufacture baking powder 
from soda, cream of tartar and starch. 

Geography : 

Locate in Texas the places where milo, kafir, Egyptian wheat, 
and wheat are raised in abundance. 

English: 

Write up notebooks and recipes. Learn to spell and define 
new words in each lesson. Find all you can on the history of 
breads. Read the following concerning the Mexican and Indian 
breads as found in Mrs. Wilson's "Domestic Science Reader." 



120 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Mexican Bread — The Tortii-la 

"The equipment of Mexican kitchens is very simple. There 
is simply a wall' of adobe (sun-dried brick) about two feet hig'h 
and two feet wide. It usually extends the whole length of the 
room. There are numbers of depressions in the bank, and in 
these burn the fires of charcoal or wood, in which are placed the 
pot and pans for cooking. Sometimes the bank of adobe is only 
a high cone, shaped like a mound, and with only one depression. 

In some parts of Mexico the cooking is done out of doors. 
Then when it rains there is no dinner. This matters less than it 
would with us, for the bulk of their food is. f rait. 

Everywhere in Mexico the corn cakes are eaten. The corn 
meal from which they are made is first softened by soaking it 
in lime water. When the hull can be separated from the g:rain, 
it is pounded and rolled upon a flat stone. For this a cylinder 
of stone something like a rolling-pin, or a flat stone, or one 
slightly rounded, is used. "With this rude tool the woman pounds 
and twists for hours. When the corn has thus been turned into 
sufliciently fine meal, water is added to it, and it is worked into 
dough. This is then rolled and patted with the hands until it 
is almost as thin as the blade of a knife. 

In the meantime the iron griddle has to be made hot by 
putting it over a fire. On it is placed the circular cake, which 
cooks in a very few minutes. These are white in color, usually 
without salt, and therefore rather tasteless. Still, they have the 
sweet of the grain, and are very much liked by all who eat them 
for any length of time. ' ' 

Bread op the Zundi Indians 

''The Indians of New INIexico make their bread from eornmeal. 
When the corn is shelled, grains* of the same color are put to- 
gether. Strange as it may seem, there are thus separated various 
tints of pink, blue, green, and yellow. Meals of difi'erent colors 
are made from these. Each is mixed separately with water until 
it forms a fine paste. This is then smeared over a hot stone 
slab with a quick motion of the hand. The dough is so thin 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 121 

and the stone so hot that it takes but a moment to bake. Its 
surface is as highly polished as writing paper. In flavor, it has 
a delicate fresh bread flavor, and is said to be very delicious, 
particularly when eaten with salt." 

Recipes 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

2 C. flour 

3 t. baking powder 

1 t. salt 

Sift twice, add 

2 T. shortening — 

Work in with tips of fingers, add about 
% C. liquid (water or milk) 

Mix with a knife to a soft dough, 
■ Handle as little as possible. 
Toss on slightly floured board, roll to l^ inch in 

thickness. 
Shape with biscuit cutter. 
Bake 10 to 15 m. in a hot oven. 

Note: It is always a good rule, when substituting cottolene for 
lard or butter, to use one-third less than the recipe calls for. 

Kafir Muffins 

Dry Mixture. 

1 C. Kafir flour 

2 t. baking powder 
1 t. salt 

1 T. sugar. 

Mix and siftt 

Liquid Mixture. 

2 eggs — slightly beaten 
1 C. milk 

Combine the above mixtures, add 



122 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

2 T. melted butter 

Beat thoroughly. 
Bake in muffin pans. 

Sour Milk Corn Cake 

Dry Mixture. 

11/4 C. corn meal 
1 t. baking powder 
1 t. soda 
1 t, salt 

Mix and sift. 

Liquid Mixture. 

2 eggs — well beaten 
2 C. sour milk 

Combine the above mixtures, add 
2 T. melted butter 

Beat well, turn into a buttered frying-pan. 

Bake 1 hr. in moderate oven. 

Sour Milk Biscuits 
4 C. flour 
4 t. baking powder 

1 t. salt 

Sift twice. 

2 T. lard — melted (butter may be substituted) 
1% C. buttermilk or 2 C. sour milk 

1 t. soda — dissolved in a little water 

Combine mixtures. Follow directions given for 

baking powder biscuits. 
Bake in hot oven 15 to 20 m. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 123 

RICE 

Subject Matter 

The statements made concerning rice in the United States 
Agricultural Bulletin show its great importance as a food pro- 
duct. This bulletin says that rice forms the principal food of 
one-half the population of the earth; that rice is more widely 
and generally used as a food material than any other cereal; 
that dense populations, where the climate permits the cultiva- 
tion of rice, have chosen it as the staple food; and that the 
United States consumption of rice is yet far beyond its annual 
production. 

The composition of the rice seed is as follows: 

Fat 7.6 % 

Protein 7.0 % 

Ash 04% 

Carbohydrate 73.00% 

Water : 12.00% 

This, however, is not the seed as it is taken into the Ameri- 
can kitchen. Fashion here has demanded that the rice have a fine 
gloss and by the polishing process some of the most valuable 
parts of the rice seed are sacrificed. If the structure of the seed 
be examined, it will be found, on removing the hull, that the 
first layers of the seed are composed of fat and protein. It is 
these layers that are removed in the polishing process. Oriental, 
unpolished rice, is considered far superior in flavor to the Amer- 
ican product, because the rice flavor is largely in the fat. Rice, 
as we purchase it, is largely a starchy food, and makes a suita- 
ble substitute food for the Irish potato. It is not a well bal- 
anced food, and when the Chinese or Japanese are said to live 
upon rice alone, the soy-bean and fish which they add to their 
diet are forgotten. 

Rice is used as a cereal, a vegetable, a dessert, and is an ex- 
cellent material because of its mild flavor, to form the basis of 
left-over meat dishes. 



124 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

References 
Farmers' Bulletin: 

Rice Culture, No. 417. 

Text: 

Food Products, Henry C. Sherman. 

Lesson Plan 
Teacher's Aim: 

To show the nutritive value of rice, especially of the unpol- 
ished variety. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To learn how to cook rice well. 

Suggested Questions. 

How does rice grow? 
How is it prepared for our use? 
Why do the Chinese dislike our rice? 
How do they prepare it? 

Related Subjects 

Geography: 

Locate the parts of the United States in which rice is grown. 

Draw a map of Texas and color the sections which produce 
rice. 

Mathematics : 

Find the cost of serving 60 children each with one cup of 
boiled rice. 

Determine the cost of one-half cup of rice and cheese as pre- 
pared in the recipe for Rice and Cheese. 

English: 

Write up work in note book and copy recipes. 

Find out all the information possible on the history of rice, 

and write an essay, 
Learn to spell and define the new words in this lesson. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 125 

The following is a brief history of the introduction of rice in 
this country : 

Rice is King in the coast countries of South Carolina, Texas, 
and Louisiana. 

Its growth in this section dates back many years. In fact it 
may be said to have been raised by the natives ever since the 
earliest . settlements, but in small quantities, sufficient only for 
the use of settlers. 

Soon after the close of the war of the sixties, a small colony 
of Germans from New Orleans located in the southern part of 
St. Landry, now Acadia Parish, Louisiana, and it was by these 
people that rice was first raised for market. Low portions of 
their farms were selected and a levee thrown up with a shovel to 
hold the water on the land. In this manner the rice patch got 
the benefit of the rain fall of the farm. When the crop began 
to ripen the levee was cut and the water allowed to run off. 
The rice was then harvested with sickles and carried together in 
small stacks. After it was thoroughly cured it was threshed 
out with flails. The grain was separated from the chaff by the 
winnowing process, sewed up in sacks and shipped to New Or- 
leans, to be hulled, scoured, polished and fitted for consumption. 
Gradually the results of the labor of these Germans demonstrated 
that the raising of rice was a profitable industry, and the settlers 
in all parts of the parish were soon raising it in small fields. In 
the year 1887 the work was begun in earnest. New methods and 
culture and new and improved machinery were introduced, and 
the industry responded quickly to these new conditions and im- 
provements. Larger fields were found necessary and also more 
water for the proper flooding of the fields. Gulleys w^ere 
dammed up and allowed to fill with water during the winter 
months. Small pumps were then operated by five or six horse- 
power engines to pump this water on the fields in the grow- 
ing season. The small patches inclosed by the old-fashioned 
slab fence soon gave way to larger fields fenced with barbed wire. 
The broadcast seeder, attached to the farm wagon, rapidly sup- 
erseded the planter, with his bucket, sowing rice by hand. First 
the cradle and then the self-binding harvester took the place of 
the old-fashioned sickle. Northern horses and mules rapidly 



126 Bulletin of ilxc Vniversitij of Tixus 

crowded out the diniinutive Creole ponies. The little six-iuch 
cotton plow was laid away or left in the field, and the siilkey- 
riding and gang plow took its place. The old-fashioned three- 
cornered drag, with its straight wooden handles, foimd its place 
in the past history of the country, and its going made room for 
the spring tooth, the cutaway, and disc. The man who pounded 
out a few sacks of rice in a day with his flail, and the next day 
cleaned it, if the wind blew, stood with his hands in his pockets 
and stared hopelessly at the steam thresher as it threshed and 
cleaner from twelve to fifteen hundred bushels of rice per day. 

Recipes 

Chinese Bice 

Pick over the rice, wash thoroughly, then add the rice slowly 
to a large amount of rapidly boiling salted water. The rice 
should be added so slowly that the water continues to boil all the 
time the rice is being added. Leave the kettle uncovered and do 
not stir the 'rice. When the grains are tender (it takes about 
25 to 30 minutes), put the rice into a colander or wire strainer, 
drain off the excess of water and pour a little boUing water 
through it to wash off the surface starch. This keeps the grains 
distinct and does not cool the rice to any great extent. 

Poar Man's Bice Pudding 

1^ C. rice — thoroughly wash 

4 C. milk 

Vi t. salt 

Ys C. sugar 

Grated rind of lo lemon. 

I\Iix ingredients. 

Bake in a buttered baking dish in a slow oven 

from 3 to 1 hrs. 
Stir frequently during the first hour of baking to 
prevent rice from settling. Serve either hot or 
cold. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 127 

Rice and Cheese 

t 

Proportio7is : 

y^ C. rice — uncooked — to prepare, steam or cook following 

method for Chinese rice 

1 C. grated cheese 

White sauce (recipe below). 

4 T. butter 

4 T. flour 

1 t. salt 

Melt butter, add flour, stir until well blended, 
then add gradually 

2 C. milk 

Stir constantly. Cook until the consistency of 
thick cream. 

Directions: 

Butter baking dish. 

Arrange in layers the cooked rice, grated cheese and white 
sauce — Using Vo of each portion for each layer. Kepeat using 
the remaining portion. 

Cover with buttered bread crumbs. 

Bake until thoroughly heated through and crumbs are 
brown. Time reciuired for baking, 15 to 20 m. Serve hot. 

Steamed Rice 

1 C. rice — wash thoroughly, add 
1 t. salt 

21/2 to 31/0 C. boiling water. 
Note: Small, shrunken grains of rice require more water than 
large, full grains. 

Place the above mixture, directly over the flame, heat to the 
boiling point. Boil 3 m.. then continue the cooking until the 
rice is tender by one of the following methods : 

Metliod. Uten.^il. Time. 

1. Moist steam in a steamer 45 m. 

2. Dry steam in a double boiler 45 m. 

3. Fireless Cooker in a covered kettle 2 hrs. 



128 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Turkish Pilaf 

% C. rice — cook by the method given in the recipe for 

Chinese Rice 
3 T. butter — melt in a skillet, add the cooked rice. Stir 

well, cook 3 m. Add 
^ can tomatoes 
1/^ C. cold meat — cut into dice 
Meat stock to moisten 
Season to taste 

Cook 5 m. Serve hot. 
Note: Tomato juice or water may be substituted for meat stock. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 129 



SALADS 

Salads constitute a class of foods which should frequently ap- 
pear upon the dinner, lunch ' and supper table. 

Salads are frequently made of materials high in food value 
and in addition they furnish much of the mineral salts, organic 
acids and so-called "bulk foods," which are so essential in our 
every day diet. They also offer an economical way in which to 
utilize left over meats, vegetables and fruits in an appetizing 
and refreshing way. 

The requisites necessary for good salads are: clean and 
crisp food materials which are well combined and neatly 
served. 

This class of dishes offer an excellent opportunity for the 
use of two Texas home products, namely, the oil from the pea- 
nut and cotton seed oil. Both are delicious as an accompani- 
ment for all kinds of salads, they are rich in food value and 
can be purchased for much less money than olive oil. 

Recipes 

Boiled Salad Dressings 
Milli 
1 T. flour 
11/2 t. salt 
1 t. mustard 
11/2 T. sugar 
f. g. paprica 

Mix these ingredients, then add 
yolk of 2 eggs — slightly beaten 
% C. milk 
1/2 T. butter 
1/4 C. mild vinegar — add slowly 

Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens. 
Stir constantly. 
Store in air tight jars. 

Dilute with cream (sour or sweet) to suit taste and 
salad materials used. 

9 — Econ. 



130 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Cream 

Proportions : 

1 T. flour 
11/2 t. salt 
IV3 t. mustard 

2 t. sugar 

1 egg — slightly beaten 

1 t. butter 

IV3 C. canned milk or cream 
1/4 C. vinegar. 

Directions: 

Follow those given for the Milk Salad Dressing. 

Mayonnaise Salad Dressing 

2 egg yolks 
11/3 t. salt 

f. g. paprica 

Beat well, add gradually, continue beating 
2 t. lemon juice 

Add alternately, drop by drop 
Juice 2 lemons 
11/2 C. salad oil 

When well started, the oil may be added in a 

steady stream, beat constantly. 

Note: Add more lemon if not sufficiently sour. 

Rub the bowl with a slice of onion if a slight onion flavor is desired. 

Pineapple Salad Dressing 

1/4 C. sugar 

14. C. lemon juice 

14 C. pineapple juice 

Cook these ingredients until a syrup, add 
2 eggs — beaten 

Continue cooking until mixture thickens. 

Cool, add 

1 C. whipped cream. 

Note: Serve with pineapple alone or in combination with other 
fruits. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 131 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 

1 C. sour cream— beat well 
3 t, vinegar 

1 t .n...^°'^^''''' ^^^"""^ ^^^^'^ gradually, season with 

1 t, salt 

V2 t. mustard 

f. g. paprica 

1 t. minced onion (if desired) 

1 t. chopped parsley. 

Note: This dressing is especially good for chopped raw cabbage. 



132 Bulletiyi of the University of Texas 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 

"A noted Frenchman has said that a soup bears the same 
relation to a dinner, that a doorway bears to a house." 

In the preparation of soups it is essential to keep in mind the 
principle involved. The principle may be simply stated: To 
cook the food materials in such a way as to dissolve and ex- 
tract all of the nutrients and flavor. 

The supply of materials for the making of soups does not 
belong to the expensive class of foods. In the store room of 
the majority of homes is to be found a variety and a goodly 
supply of dried sweet herbs, whole and ground spices. Then 
there are always the good old standbys, for instance, carrots, 
beans, onions, and potatoes. During canning season such veg- 
etables as corn, okra, peas, and tomatoes may be made ready 
for soups when these vegetables are out of season. 

Soups may be classified in the following way: 
Soup nuide with stock. 

Broivn Soup Stock, the basis of which is beef, alone, or in 
combination with veal, fowl, vegetables and cereals. Any of 
these combinations may be served as 

A plain meat or vegetable soup. 
Meat soup with noodles or dumplings. 
Bouillon or broth. These are always served clear, 
delicately seasoned and colored brown, due to the 
browning of the meat. 

White Stock Soup, the basis of which is veal or chicken 
alone or in combination with vegetables and cereals. 

The above division applies to the white soup stock with this 
exception. The soup when served perfectly clear, is always 
highly seasoned and called Consomme. 
Soups made without stock. There are four kinds, namely: 

Cream, the foundation of which is White Sauce and it is com- 
bined with the pulp of vegetables and the water in which the 
vegetables were cooked. 

Puree, a thick cream soup. 

Bisque, a thick cream soup made from shell fish. 

Chowder, a cream soup containing vegetables and bacon. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics VS^i 

Corn Soup 

Corn Mixture: 

1 can corn 

2 C. water 

1 slice onion. 

White Sauce: 

2 T. butter 
2 T. flour 

1 T. salt 

f. g pepper 

2 C. milk 

Prepare mixtures. 
Bring slowly to boiling point. 
Place in fireless cooker 2 hrs. 
Rub through a sieve. 
Reheat and serve. 

Corn Cliowder 
(Large Recipe.) 

Corn Mixture: 
7 cans corn 

3 qts. water 

1 small onion 

Heat mixture to boiling point, put in Fireless 
Cooker. 

White Sauce : 

2 slices bacon — cut into small pieces — fried 

1 C. Wessons oil 

2 C. flour 
6 T. salt 

3 qts. milk 

Combine mixtures. Serve hot. 

Note: A few potatoes, diced, may be substituted for a part of the 
corn. 



134 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Tomato Mixture: 
1/2 can tomatoes 

1 slice onion 

2 t. sugar 

Simmer 10 m. ; add % t. soda, strain. 
White Sauce: 
2 T. butter 
4 T. flour 

1 t. salt 

f. g. pepper 

2 C. milk. 

Extra Milk: 

2 C. milk — scald 

Just before ready to serve, pour tomato mixture 
into White Sauce. Add more seasoning if nec- 
essary. 

Bean Chowder 

2 quts. Kidney, Mexican or Frijoles beans, well washed 
2 qts. water 

Soak over night or for several hrs. 

Cook until tender, add 
2 medium sized potatoes — diced 
1 medium onion — sliced 

Cook until vegetables are tender, add 

1 C. macaroni — which has been previously cooked 

2 C. stewed and strained tomato 
Salt and pepper to season 

1 T. butter 

Serve hot. 

Bean and Tomato Soup 
(Large Recipe.) 

Bean Mixture: 

6 C. baked or boiled beans 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 135 

3 qts. water 

1 onion — sliced 

Simmer 30 m. or put in Fireless Cooker. 

Tomato Mixture: 
6 T. butter— melt 
8 T. flour 

Blend, add 

4 cans stewed and strained tomatoes. 

Combine mixtures. Season. 

Noodles 

1 egg — slightly beaten 
1/2 t. salt 

Flour — to make a very stif¥ dough 

Mix the ingredients, roll dough into a very thin 

sheet 
Cover with a paper or towel, let stand at least 

20 m. 
Flour well, roll into cylinder form, cut into % 

inch slices 
Shake out rolls. 

Note: The noodles may be used at once 'or allowed to thoroughly 
dry, then stored for future use. 

Cook in boiling salted water until tender 20-30 m. 

To serve as a soup — simply add to the soup ma- 
terial. 

To serve as a vegetable — drain, use the water in a 
soup, then season with salt and butter 'or cream. 

Potato Soup 

(Large Recipe.) 
Potato Mixture: 

2 qt. sliced potatoes 
% onion — sliced 

Boiling water to cover 

Cook in Fireless Cooker. 



136 Bulletin of tlic University of Texas 

White Sauce: 

1 C. Wesson's oil 

2 C. flour 
6 T. salt 

3 qts. milk 

Cook in double boiler. 

Extra Milk: 

4 qts. — scald 

Combine mixtures just before serving. 

Stock for Meat Soup 

6 lbs. bone (shank, shin) 

6 lbs. lean beef — (tough meat) 

Wipe meat with damp cloth. 
Cut % of lean meat into small cubes, brown in 
suet or marrow from the bone. 
8 qts. water. 

Simmer 6 hrs. Remove meat and bone and set 
stock in cool place. Remove cake of solidified 
fat. Add the following ingredients for seas- 
oning : 
6 cloves V2 C. carrots — diced 

1/2 hay leaf % C. onion — sliced 

2 sprigs parsley V2 C. turnip — diced 

f. g. thyme Salt to taste 

Cook 1 hr. 

Note: Tie the seasonings loosely in a cheesecloth square to save 
having to strain. 

To Keep Soup Stock 
Clear. 

Note: To clear, use 1 egg shell and 1 white of egg 
to each 2 qts. of stock. 

Add the beaten white and crushed shell to the warmed stock 
Stir constantly until the boiling point is reached. 
Boil three minutes. Simmer ten minutes. 

Note: Remove the scum as it forms on top. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 137 



Strain into several receptacles. 
Cool quickly. 



Note: Do not disturb the coating of fat which 
forms. It keeps out the air and acts as a preserver. 



138 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

THE OUT-OF-DOORS PICNIC 

Subject Matter 

Have you ever stopped to think why the camp or outdoor 
picnic is so universally enjoyed? Little children love to get 
away from the regular routine of table manners, and adults 
like the open-fire cooking. The picnic is logically a part of us^ 
and our delight in the woods is natural. Years ago our an- 
cestors lived an out-of-door life. They dwelt in caves and ate 
roots, berries, game, and fish as they could procure them. They 
ate this food raw, though they always kept a roaring fire out- 
side the camp door, and ate their food, and related the inci- 
dents of the day, about this fire. 

One day a peculiar thing happened in the life of the cave 
people. The family, young and old, w^ere seated about the fire 
eating their venison and berries. A small child dropped his 
piece of meat into ^he burning coals and began to cry, "Oh 
my meat has fallen into the fire; it will burn up like wood. 
What shall I do?" An older member of the family, with a pair 
of wooden tongs, plucked the meat from the fire. It looked 
plump and juicy. It smelled good. The cave man tasted it and 
smacked his lips. It was delicious. The meat was more tender 
and better flavored. All dropped their meat into the fire, and 
cooking was instituted. Our ancestors were all out-of-door 
cooks from this time on for many years. They broiled their 
meat on green, forked sticks over the burning coals, and wrap- 
ped their meat and tubers in moist clay and roasted them in the 
ashes. Is it any Avonder we still love to get away from conven- 
tions and eat in spirit with our primitive ancestors ? 

The following requirements are necessary for a good picnic 
meal : 

A carefully planned variety of foods, which meet the demand 
of a balanced meal. 

Foods which require open-fire cooking as a usual thing. 

All food should be carefully prepared and well packed at 
home. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 139 

A juicy food and a suitable beverage should always be pro- 
rided. 

The following are suitable picnic menus: 

Picnic Luncheon {Out-door Fire.) 

Bacon to broil 

Potatoes or corn on the cob to roast 

Bread and butter sandwiches 

Peach pickles 

Cake 

Fruit 

Picnic Breakfast {Out-door Fire.) 

Fruit 

Eggs to scramble 
Bacon to broil 
Bread and butter 



Picnic Luncheon {No Fire Necessary.) 



Fried chicken 


Jelly 


Bread and butter 


Cake 




Keferences 



Fruit 
Milk 



The Cave Dwellers, K. Dopp. 

Camp and Trail, E. S. White. 

Camp Cookery, Royal Baking Powder Co., New York. 

Boy Scout Manual, Chapter on Cooking Out of Doors. . 

Story of Ab, Stanley Waterloo. 

Lesson Plan 

Teacher's Aim: 

To givQ meaning and significance to the picnic and the picnic 
meal. 

Pupil's Aim: 

To plan food for an out-door picnic, luncheon or breakfast. 



140 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Leading Questions in Lesson: 

Why does everybody love to go on a picnic? What is re- 
quired to make a picnic successful? What should be kept in 
mind in planning- a picnic meal? What foods can be carried 
to cook on the open fire? How can we improvise in the woods 
utensils for cooking of this food? Discuss the making and 
wrapping of sandwiches and cookies. Determine on a suitable 
time to have a picnic. 

Related Work 

Mathematics: 

Determine amount required for picnic meal planned. 
Estimate the cost. 

Physical Geography: 

Study location of picnic grounds. 

Study sources of water. 

Discuss the advisabality of various waters for drinking and 
cooking purposes. 

English: 

Write a description of the first out-of-door cooking. 

Write a treatise on the lesson and copy recipes in note book, 
or on cards. 

Read "Cave Dwellers," K. Dopp. 
"Story of Ab," S. Waterloo. 

Recipes 









Apple 


Jelly 


CaTce 










V-L 


C. 


butter — melt 
















1 


C. 


sugar 
















1 


egg — well beaten 






• 














Combine 


these 


ingredients 


then 


add 


the 


follow- 






ing mixture : 














2 


C. 


flour 

















4 t. baking powder 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 141 

Lastly add 
1 C. milk 

Beat well 

Bake in layers. 

Build cake using the following as the filling. 

Filling 

1 C. sugar 

2 large apples — grated 
Juice 1 lemon 

Cook these ingredients until jelly-like, then add 
1 egg — well beaten 

Remove from fire. 

Cool — spread between layers of cake. 

Cover cake with icing. 

To Bake Potatoes in the Open Fire 

Cover the potato entirely with a coating of moist clay and 
bury in the hot ashes. Allow about forty minutes for baking. 

To Broil Meat Out of Doors 

Cut long, green, forked sticks and sharpen the fork tines. 
Place meat on the fork, and broil over the live coals until thor- 
oughly cooked. Bacon is delicious if broiled with a piece of 
apple on each side and all of it used as filling for a sandwich. 

Jelly Sandwiches 

Any jam or jelly may be used for the filling in making a 
sweet sandwich. . 

Meat Sandwichs 

Cold, thinly sliced ham, tongue or mutton may be used for 
sandwich filling. During lettuce season — a leaf of crisp lettuce 
makes a good addition. 



142 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Cream cheese or homemade (cottage cheese) may be used. 
Cottage cheese is made by pouring well-soured clabbered milk 
into a cheesecloth bag, allowing it to drip until dry (usually 
12 hours). Remove cheese from cloth, mash with silver fork 
until smooth, and add salt to taste. A few tablespoons of sweet 
cream or melted butter improves the flavor. For the sandwich 
filling, nuts, a little mayonnaise, or a few chopped olives, either 
the ripe or green ones, may be added to the seasoned cheese. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Use hard cooked eggs. Chop whites, rub yolks through a seive, 
and season with salt, melted butter, vinegar, lemon juice, 
or mayonnaise. 

Ginger Bread 

Liquid Mixture: 

% C. butter — creamed 

1 C. sugar — added gradually, then add 

1 Q^g — well beaten 

% C. molasses 

1 C. sour milk. 

Dry Mixture: 

2 C. flour — sifted before measured 
1 t. ginger 

1/4 t. cinnamon 
Yz t. soda 

Mix these ingredients and sift. 

Combine the two mixtures. 

Bake in individual cakes or in a sheet in a mode- 
erate oven. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 143 

» Sponge Cake 

Liquid Mixture: 

2 egg yolks — well beaten 
1 C. sugar — added gradually 

1 T. lemon juice — continue beating until light and lemon 
colored, then add 
% C. water. 
Dry Mixture: 

1 C. flour — (sifted before measuring) 

2 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift. 

Add the flour mixture to the yolk mixture. 
Fold in 
2 egg whites — beaten stiff 

Bake in moderate oven 45 m. 



144 Bulletin of tJie University of Texas 

TABLE SETTING AND SERVICE 

Subject ]\Iatter 

It has been often said that the most important room of the 
house is the dining-room. It is not only a place where the fam- 
ily is nourished, but it is in many households the real social 
center of family life. In thase busy times, the family has little 
time when all may meet together in the living-room, but at 
least twice a day they meet at meals, and most of their social 
intercourse is at the table. Every care should be taken that 
this meeting should be as conducive to happiness and good 
cheer as possible. It is not only necessary that nutritious and 
well prepared food should be served, but that it should be 
served in a cheerful room and as attractively as possible. It is 
a well known fact that food is more easily digested when 
served under such conditions. A wholesome, well served meal 
which satisfies the outer as well as inner man is a potent factor 
in the formation of character, and is one that an efficient home- 
maker will not overlook. 

Locatio7i and Furnishing of Dining Boom. The location and 
furnishing of the dining-room have been discussed in a Uni- 
versity of Texas Bulletin which may be had on application. A 
bright, cheerful room should be chosen with a pleasing outlook. 
The furniture should be simple, so as not to require too much 
time in caring for it. The table should be placed in the center 
of the room. A sideboard, buffet, or serving table on wheels 
should be convenient to it so that desserts or other dishes may 
be served from it. This saves unnecessary steps to the pantry 
and kitchen. When no maid is kept, a built-in cupboard or 
sideboard with a sliding panel opening into the kitchen i.s a great 
convenience and saves many steps. 

Table Linen: 

The table should always be covered with a cloth as spotless 
as possible. The red figured cloths of our grandmothers should 
be banished to oblivion. They are neither pretty nor sanitary 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 145 

They become soiled just as (jniekly, but the dirt doesn't show 
as plainly as in a white cloth. Table linen may be purchased at 
various prices, but it never pays to buy poor or flimsy grade 
because it is "cheap." It costs more in the long run. It is 
usually heavily "dressed," and after being laundered, it is 
slazy and unattractive. A grade that costs double the amount 
is likely to have four times the wearing quality. It also has 
the advantage of staying fresh longer, as it does not muss so 
easily. 

There is a very good grade of cotton crepe table cloth and 
napkins on the market. It is attractive in design, reasonable in 
price, and has the great advantage of not needing to be ironed. 
When the laundry is done at home, this is a saving of both 
time and labor. 

Silver, Glass and GJiina: 

The silver, glass, and china should be immaculately clean and 
shining. Here again simplicity should be considered. Plain 
silver and glass are much easier to keep clean and much more 
attractive than heavily chased silver, or the fancy pressed glass. 
The china should be plain, or very simply decorated. One tires 
quickly of big flowered designs, or highly decorated and col- 
ored dishes. 

Laying tlie Table: 

The table should be covered first with a "silence cloth" to 
prevent the clatter of dishes against the wood top. This cloth 
may be a double cotton blanket, or a double faced Canton flan- 
nel. There is also a quilted cotton which comes for this pur- 
pose and which may be purchased by the yard. 

Over this cloth is laid the table cloth. When lanudered, it 
should be pressed with as few creases as possible so that it will 
lie flat and smooth on the table. The center crease should be 
exactly in the middle of the table, and the ends must hang per- 
fectly even. A center piece of flowers, a growing plant or sprigs 
of foilage add much to the cheerfulness and beauty of the table. 
Lovely wild flowers are nearly always available even when gar- 
den flowers are scarce. In winter when nothing else is avail- 
able, carrot tops may be used. They should be cut ofl' to about 



146 



Bulletin of the University of Texas 



a "half inch in depth and planted in a shallow dish or bowl. The 
soft foilage is a charming substitute for the less hardy fern. 

B re arc/ anof 
butter p/atte. 



C/a^>5. 




A 3/mple Dinner 3en^/ce. 

Laying the Tahle: 

The housewife of the family should be at the end of the 
table nearest the kitchen and the man of the family should be 
seated opposite her. A guest of honor is usually placed to the 
right of the host. 

Each person should be allowed not less than twenty-four 
inches of space, though thirty inches is more desirable. The 
knife should be placed on the right hand side, half inch from 
the edge of the table with the sharp edge in. A teaspoon is 
laid to the right of the knife. If soup is to be served, the soup 
spoon should be placed to the right of the teaspoon with the 
ends of the handles even and bowls up. The fork or forks are 
placed at the left with space for the plate between the fork 
and knife. When two forks are used, they are placed side by 
side — the one to be used first farthest to the left. The glass 



. Simple Courses in Home Economics 147 

is placed above and on a line with the knife, open end up. A 
small plate to be used for bread and butter is placed above the 
fork. The napkin is at the left of the fork. Salt may be 
served in individual open cellars, or in shakers. A pepper 
shaker usually accompanies the salt. There is no set rule as 
to their placing. It must be governed by convenience and num- 
bers. Sugar, pickles, jelly, etc., should be arranged convenient- 
ly, but symmetrically. Avoid having the table over-crowded. 
If the food is properly seasoned when cooked there will be little 
need of the various condiment bottles which are apt to litter our 
tables. 

The chairs should be placed far enough from the table to 
permit slipping into them without drawing them out and they 
should be arranged in even rows. 

Serving: 

The service should be as simple as possible, and each person 
at the table should do his share to help. Hot food should be 
served in hot dishes and cold food on ,cold dishes. It is most 
unappetizing to have grease from the meat or gravy congeal 
on a cold plate, or ice cream softened and slushy from contact 
with a warm dish. The meat is carved and served by the head 
of the family, and the plates passed as served. Ditferent mem- 
bers of the family may be responsible for serving the different 
dishes. After a course, the dishes may be quickly and quietly 
removed by a daughter of the family. If there are several, they 
may take their turn in performing this duty. 

Formal Service. 

If there is a maid and a more formal service is desired, the 
service is usually from a buffet or side table. If fruit or soup 
is served as a first course, it may be at each place when 
the meal is announced The main, course, such as roast 
or fowl, is usually served by the host, or, in his absence, the 
hostess. The maid places the plate be-fore him to be served, 
removes it and substitutes another in its stead, placing the 
served plates in turn before those gathered about the table. The 
other dishes are served from the buffet or side table. The dish 
is held on the hand with a folded napkin beneath and the spoon 

10 — Econ. 



148 Bulletin of tlie University of Texas 

for serving placed in the dish. All dishes should be passed to 
the left and removed from the same side. Fill water glasses 
from the right. Before the dessert is served, the table should 
be cleared of everything but the center piece, the glass of water, 
and necessary silver. The crumbs should be brushed from each 
place with a folded napkin upon a plate. The service, even 
with a maid, should be as simple as possible. 

Even at a "company dinner" do not make the mistake of 
serving too many courses or too much food. Three, or at the 
most four courses are sufficient. An elaborate service often 
works a hardship on the hostess. So much responsibility is 
apt to spoil all of her pleasure at the dinner hour. 

Note: Several lessons should be given in table lajang and also 
several mock services before the serving of a real meal is attempted. 
If time permits, a lesson should be given on the laundering of table 
linen. Instructions will be sent on application to the Home Welfare 
Division of the Extension Department of the Universitj'. 

Questions 

Name the most important points to remember in setting 
the table. 

What are the chief advantages in using plain silver and 
glassware ? 

Most table naperj^ is made from linen. What did you learn 
about the production of flax and the manufacture of linen in 
your geography? 

Where is most glass and china manufactured? 

What can vou tell of these industries? 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 149 

VEGETABLES 

Subject Matter 

The food value of any substance depends largely on the 
amount and kind of food nutrients present, and the availability 
of these substances to the body. The food value of vegetables 
is studied through their chemical composition and their digesti- 
bility. 

There are various ways for the classification of vegetables. 
Some classifications are based on the part of the plant used 
for food ;■ others are classed according to the family group to 
which they belong. The chemical composition is an important 
factor in considering a food value, and a classification which takes 
into account the substance present in the make-up of the vege- 
table is suggested. 

A classification is as follows: Starchy Vegetables, — as ex- 
ample, we have potato, rice, and corn (used as vegetables). The 
Protein or Leguminous, — bean, peas, lentils, peanuts, etc. 
The Strong-Flavored Vegetables, — cabbage, cauliflower, brussel 
sprouts. Green or Salad Vegetables,— -lettuce, cress, romaine, 
endive, parsley. We wnll study in these lessons the strong and 
sweet- juiced and green vegetables. 

A typical example of Strong-Juiced vegetables is cabbage. 
Its chemical composition is as follows : 

Cahdage : 

Protein 1.6 % 

Fat 3 % 

Carbohydrates 5.6 % 

Mineral salt 1.0 % 

Water 91.5 % 

The composition indicates that its food value lies largely in 
its mineral salts and its bulkiness. Cabbage has gained a repu- 
tation for being indigestible, but this is largely due to the fact 
that it has not been properly cooked. Cabbage is often put 
over the fire with a large piece of fat pork and allowed to cook 



150 Bulletin of tJie University of Texas 

three or four hours. All the tibers are toughened, the green 
chlorophyll is broken down, the flavor is destroyed, and the sul- 
phur compounds are broken up. When cabbage is lightly cooked 
for a short time, for 30 or 40 minutes, just below the boiling 
point in an abundance of salted w^ater, it has a delicate flavor 
and is not difficult of digestion. 

These strong-juiced vegetables,' — the onion, jcabbage, cauli- 
flower, have a valuable place in the diet. They furnish the 
mineral salts needed by the body, and gives bulkiness with which 
to dilute our more concentrated foods. 

The sweet-juiced vegetables are somew^hat more nutritious 
than the strong-flavored ones. They are characterized by a mild 
and sweet flavor. The carrot, spinach, string beans, green peas, 
and beets belong to this class. They are composed largely of 
water, sugar, mineral salts, and fiber. The carrot has the fol- 
lowing composition : 

Protein 1.1 % 

Fat 4 % 

Carbohydrates 9.3 7o 

Mineral salt 1.0 % 

Water 88.2 % 

From the foregoing analysis it is evident that the carrot owes 
its food value largely to the sugar and the mineral salts it con- 
tains. A rather large per cent of both the sugar and mineral 
salts is lost in cooking, where the carrot is boiled in water. 
Some European investigators advocate the experiment of steam- 
ing carrots, and thus reduce the loss of these food nutrients. 

The salad and green vegetables are those used largely in 
salads, and uncooked. The lettuce, cress, parsley, endive, ro- 
maine, etc., are examples of this class. They contain a large 
amount of water, little or no fat or protein, from two to four 
per cent of carbohydrates, and a comparatively large amount 
of mineral matter. The lettuce is the typical example of this 
class. Its composition is as follows : 

Water 94.7 % 

Protein 1.2 % 

Fat 3 % 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 151 

Carbohydrates 2.9 % 

Ash 9 % 

The composition indicates that the mineral salts are the sub- 
stances of value in these vegetables. We find these salts are 
largely potassium, with traces of lime, magnesium, phosphorus, 
and iron. The potassium is a valuable salt in that it keeps 
the blood supplied with alkali, and this lowers the acidity of the 
urine. Such a vegetable is also useful in the diet to prevent 
scurvey and diseases of the skin. 

Vegetables are a necessary part of our every day ration. 
They are indeed the sourees of starch and sugar. As providers 
of mineral salts they give bulkiness needed in the diet, and one 
class furnishes a cheap source of protein, which makes a suit- 
able meat substance. Dr. Sherman gives vegetables a promi- 
nent place in the diet, and says the following in regard to the 
feeding of children: "The necessity of a generoiis supply of 
vegetables must be particularly emphasized. They are of the 
greatest importance for the normal development of the body 
and of all its functions. As far as children are concerned, we 
believe we could do better by following a dietary of the most 
rigid vegetarians, than by feeding children as though they were 
carniverous, according to the bad custom which is still quite prev- 
alent. If we limit the most important sources of iron, the vege- 
tables and the fruits, we cause a certain sluggishness of the 
blood formation and an entire lack of reserve iron, such as is 
normally found in the liver, spleen, and bone-marrow of healthy, 
well-nourished individuals. ' ' 

Eeferences. 
Fa rmers' Bulletins : 

Green Vegetables and Their Uses in the Diet. 
Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. No. 256. 
Cabbage. No. 433. 
Home Vegetable Garden. No. 255. 

Lesson Plan 
Teacher's Aim: 
To teach the value of vegetables in the diet the year around. 



152 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Pupil's Aim: 

To learn to properly prepare vegetables. 

Suggested Questions 

List all the vegetables you know. (Write on blackboard.) 

Are any alike? What are the distinct differences? 

How can you group or classify them? What vegetables have 
you already considered? To what class did these belong? 

Will you cut a strong-juiced vegetable just as you did pota- 
toes? Why not? How is cabbage prepared? Will carrots be 
prepared similar to cabbage? Draw diagrams on board and 
explain differences. 

Related Subjects 
Agriculture : 

Grow vegetables in school garden. 
Study their habits. 

Geography: 
Draw map, United States and Texas, color vegetable areas. 
Indicate vegetables grown with best results in each particular 
State. 

English: 

Write up note books and recipes. 

Learn to spell and define all new words. 

Write a paper, "Why children should eat vegetables." 

Recipes 

Creamed Carrots 

To prepare carrots for cooking — wash, scrub and scrape. If 
large,- slice or dice. Cook until tender in salted boiling water. 
Drain. Serve with a medium thick white sauce. 

Scalloped Apples 

Arrange a layer of sliced or chopped apples in a buttered 
baking dish. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 153 

Sprinkle with cinnamon, sngar and dot with bits of butter. 

Repeat until dish is not more than % full. 

Insert a knife in several places, add milk or water to cover. 

Cover top layer with buttered crumbs. 

Bake in a moderate oven until apples are tender, about 45 m. 

Serve hot. 

Note: This dish may be served as a vegtable or as a dessert. A& 
a dessert, serve either with cream, chocolate sauce or hard sauce. 
If desired, add a little molasses to the liquid; this makes a pleasing 
change. 

Scalloped Cahhage 

First : 

Prepare cabbage — 

Look over carefully. Divide into quarters. 

Cook in boiling salted water until tender — about 30 ra. 

Drain — cut into smaller pieces if desired. 

Second: 

In a buttered baking dish arrange layers of cooked cabbage? 

and white sauce. Add more sea-soning if necessary. 
Cover with buttered crumbs. 
Bake until thoroughly heated through and crumbs are brown. 

Scalloped Corn 

2 eggs — slightly beaten 

1 can corn 

li/o T. melted butter 

1 t. salt 

f. g. pepper. 

Combine ingredients in the order given. 

Bake in buttered dish in a slow oven until set. 

Recipe serve-s — 

Scalloped Tomatoes and Rice With Cheese 

Arrange layers of 
Rice — cooked 



154 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Cheese — grated. 

Tomatoes — seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Cover top layer with buttered crumbs. Bake about 20 m. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

1 qt. tomatoes — seasoned 

1 C. pecan nut meats— chopped. 
1 C. buttered bread crumbs 

Combine these ingredients. 

Bake in a buttered dish until thoroughly heated 
through, about 20 m. 
Note: If a layer of buttered crumbs is put on the top and the 
dish is baked until the crumbs are well browned much is added to 
the attractiveness of the dish. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Arrange a layer of sliced or diced potatoes in a buttered dish. 
Sprinkle with flour, salt, pepper, and dot with bits of butter. 
Repeat until dish is not more than % full. 
Add milk or water to cover. 

Bake in a moderate oven until potatoes are tender, from 45 m. 
to 1 hr. 

As a variety and for a change — 

Note: Grated cheese may be added to each layer or a little 
minced onion gives a good additional flavor. 

White Sauce 

for 

Creamed Vegetables 

2 T. butter— melt 

2 T. flour 
1/4 t. salt 

f. g. pepper, or paprica if desired. 

Blend, add gradually, stir constantly, 
1 C. milk 

Cook until consistency of thick cream. 

Add prepared vegetable. 

Serve hot. 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 155 

YEAST BREAD 
Subject Matter 

Wheat is the most important cereal in the world, because it 
is most largely used for bread-manking. Besides starch, it con- 
tains a valuable protein called gluten, which becomes very 
elastic when moist. This gluten is stretched by means of the 
pressure of gas in the dough, and it is due to this that bread 
is light and porous. 

The process of making wheat into flour is a most interesting 
one. The grain is washed, broken into pieces by means of intri- 
cate machinery, ground and sifted many times until all of the 
bran is removed, and we have the fine white product with which 
we are all familiar. A visit to a flour mill where this procesp. 
can be seen is most interesting and instructive. 

Yeast is essential for bread-making. It is a form of micro- 
scopic plant life. Each plant is composed of one cell. When 
yeasti is placed in a solution containing food for the plants, 
under favorable conditions, the yeast cells rapidly grow and re- 
produce. 

The tiny yeast plant sometimes floats about in the air, and 
when it finds a good soil for growth, it develops very rapidly. 
To grow, it requires warmth, moisture, and food. Bread dough 
furnishes all of these requirements, and when at a tempera- 
ture of 90° F. it is most favorable to the development of the 
plant. There are other tiny plants besides yeast floating in the 
air. They are called bacteria and molds. They, too, are likely 
to get into the dough, but they do not have the same good effect 
that the yeast does. The bacteria is apt to change the flavor of 
the bread and cause it to become sour and stringy. For this 
reason, we have to be very careful in the yeast we use, and try 
and get that which is free from bacteria. 

The Fleischman yeast cakes are excellent. They are prepared 
with the greatest care and are free from bacteria, so that bread 
made from them is usually good. However, when this yeast 
is not obtainable, the home-made yeast can be used, or the dried 



156 Bulletin of the Vniversiiy of Texas 

yeast cake which can be purchased at any reliable grocery store. 
Home-made yeast can be made very successfully by using the 
recipes given below. 

The yeast acts upon the sugar and starch in the dough and 
breaks them down into the simpler sugars and then into a gas 
called carbon dioxide. It is this gas which expands and stretches 
the gluten in the flour. Gluten hardens when baked. 

Bread is rightly called the ''Staff of Life," and when served 
with butter it is known as the "Gold-headed Cane." Every 
meal is incomplete wdthout some form of bread. It is a food 
of which we never tire. 

Composition of 

Bread. Butter. 

Water 40.0 12.5 

Protein 6.5 5 

Fat 1.0 84.5 

Starch-Cellulose 51.5 6 

Mineral Matter 1.0 1.9 



100.0 100.0 

Successful bread making depends upon two points of equal 
importance : 

1. Ingredients used in the bread. Use the materials which 
you know are in good condition. 

a. A reliable grade or brand of flour. 

b. Shortening free from any rancid odor. 

c. If milk is added see that it is pure and fresh. 

d. Live yeast. Yeast which has a fresh, sweet yeasty 
odor. If there is the slightest trace of sour smell — resembling 
vinegar (acetic acid) — it should not be used. It is very impor- 
tant to become familiar with the true yeast odor. 

2. The care. To make good bread requires close attention 
during the whole process — the baking as well as the making. 
Keep the mixture, while raising, at an even temperature. It is 
very important to keep it free from draughts. Place in a warm 
oven (90° F.) or set the pan over a receptacle which contains 
water heated to ninety degrees. Use the temperature of tepid 
water as vour guide in determining the proper temperature for 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 157 

all the ingredients and for the surrounding atmosphere. The 
degree of the oven heat will be found in the directions for 
baking. 

Lightening Process: 

If possible let the dough raise in a straight pan. Note a 
mark on the pan which would indicate when the dough has 
raised "double in bulk." or "twice in size." Allow the dough 
to raise until it reaches this point. Then it is ready to knead 
down. Let it raise again to double in bulk. Mould into two 
loaves. Place in oiled or buttered pans. Allow the loaves to 
raise until double in bulk. 

Baking Process: 

Have the oven heated to a high heat by the time the loaves 
are ready. Lower the heat after the loaves have become a 
golden brown. Keep the oven at the moderate heat for the rest 
of the time. 

It requires from fifty minutes to one hour to bake the bread 
sufficiently. Turn out of the pans on a rack or clean white cloth 
to cool. Leave uncovered. Store in air-tight tin box or stone 
jar after thoroughly cooled. 

References 
Farmers' Bulletins — 

Bread Making. No. 389. 
Books: 

State Adopted Textbook on Agriculture — The Great Grain 
Crop of the World. 

Warner's Elem.ents of Agriculture, chapter on Wheat. 

University of Texas Bulletin: 

Simple Cooking of Wholesome Foods for the Farm Home. 
No 306. 

Lesson Plan 
Teacher's Aim: 
To teach the value of bread as a food. 
To teach the methods of bread making. 



158 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Pupil's Aim: 

To make good bread. 

To realize its importance as a food. 

Suggested Questions 

Why is bread called "Staff of Life"? 

Of what value is gluten in bread-making? 

Why is yeast used in bread-making? 

At what temperature does bread rise best, and why? 

What are the advantages of home-made bread over baker's 

bread ? 
Which is the cheapest? 

Related Subjects 

Geography : 

Study the wheat growing sections of the world, the soil and 
climate favorable to its growth. IMention in the order of their 
importance the six leading wheat producing countries. 

English : 

Write a composition on "What I have learned about wheat 
and wheat products." Read the following story "Gleaners and 
Sowers" in Art Literature, Book V, and "Bread-making in 
Biblical times." 

Mathematics : 

Cornpute the cost of homemade and baker's bread and com- 
pare. 

Bolls 

There is a great variety of shapes into which one can make 
rolls from bread dough. The more common ones are biscuits, 
finger rolls, and Parker House rolls. 

To shape biscuits, pull or cut off as many small pieces of uni- 
form size as there are to be biscuits. Flour palms of hands 
slightly; take up each piece and shape separately, lifting with 



Simple Courses in Home Economics 159 

thumb and first two fingers of right hand, and placing in palm 
of left hand, constantly moving the dough round and round, 
while folding toward the center. Place in greased pan close 
together and brush between with a little butter. 

For finger rolls, shape biscuits and roll with one hand on part 
of board where there is no flour until of desired length, care 
being taken to make smooth, of uniform size, and round at the 
ends. 

Recipes 

Coffee Cake 
(Brioche.) 

1 C. scalded milk — lukewarm 
yeast cakes 

Dissolve, yeast thoroughly. Add following mixture 
1/4 C. egg yolks — beaten 
1/2 C. whole egg — beaten 
% C. sugar 
% t. lemon extract 

Beat well, add 
42/3 C. flour 
1/^ C. melted butter 

Knead — let stand until doubled in bulk, about 6 

hours. 
Roll to 1/4-inch thickness. 
I Spread wnth softened butter. Fold from outer 
edge toward the center to make 3 layers. 
Cut into strips %-inch in width 
Let rise until light. 
Twist each piece in opposite directions, holding an 

end in each hand. 
Form into a circular coil — let rise again. 
Bake 20 to 30 m. in a hot oven. 
Brush over with sugar dissolved in hot water 
flavored with vanilla. 

Note: This dough makes excellent doughnuts. 



160 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

Home-made Yeast Cakes 

y^ C. luke warm water — (water which has been boiled) 

1 Fleischman yeast cake 

Soak 5 m. add 

2 T. sugar 

1 t. salt 
1/2 C. flour 

Stir well, allow to rise until light, add 

2 C. meal 
1/2 C. flour 

Knead — toss on board. 

Roll to % inch in thickness. 

Cut in li^-inch squares. 

(Add more flour if necessary.) 

Put in a warm, free from dust, place to dry. 

Store — when perfectly dry in air-tight jars. 

Note: These yeast cakes will keep from 6 to 8 weeks. 

Home-made Yeast Cake. No. II 

Vi C. potato water — luke warm 
1/2 Fleischman yeast cake 
1 T. sugar 
1/2 C. flour 

I\Iix — let rise until light. Add 
1 C. corn meal 

Knead — follow directions given for recipe No. 1. 

Milk and Water Bread 

•2 T. fat 

1 T. sugar 

11/2 t. salt ■ 

1 C. boiling water 

1 C. scalded milk 

Combine these ingredients. 

"When luke warm, add 
1 yeast cake dissolved in 



Simple Courses m Home Economics 161 

!4 C. hike warm water 

'j C. sifted flour, or enough to make a stifit' dough. 

Knead until dough is smooth and elastic. 

Place in buttered bowl. 

Follow directions given under lightening and bak- 
ing process. 

Potato Bread 

1 medium sized hot cooked potato— mashed 

2 C. potato water — luke warm 
1 T. sugar 

11/2 t. salt 

1 home-made yeast cake 

Mix ingredients— cover, keep in a warm place over 
night 

In the morning add 
6 C. flour, or enough to make a stiff dough 

2 T. shortening 

Follow the directions given— Milk and Water 
Bread. 

Parker House Rolls 

Ingredients : 
2 e. milk 
2 T. butter 
2 T. sugar 
1 t. salt 
1 yeast cake 
5% c. flour 

Method of mixture: 

Heat the milk until scalded. Pour it over the butter, sugar 
and salt, which has been measured and placed in the bread pan. 
When this mixture becomes tepid add the yeast cake. 

Note: If the Pleischman compressed yeast is used, crumble it 
into the mixture. If Yeast Foam or Magic (dry cakes), first soften 
in one-fourth cup of tepid water before adding to the mixture 



162 



Bulletin of the University of Texas. 



LIUKRRY OF CONGRESS 



014 230 853 8 • 



Stir in flour enough to make a sponge, about three cups. 
Beat thoroughly. Let rise until double in bulk. Cut doAvn, 
add flour enough to knead, about two and a half cups. Let 
rise until double in bulk. Toss on slightly floured board; 
knead and roll to one-half-inch in thickness. Shape with 
round biscuit cutter, crease through the center of the biscuit 
with the handle of a case knife, or wooden spoon. Spread one- 
half of the biscuit with melted butter, fold edges and press firm- 
ly together. Place in buttered pan one-half-inch apart. Let 
rise to double in bulk. 

Bake in hot oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 



