Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

Frcxm the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 



.i 



J 



uj 






/ •: 






I 






V 



«^v 






< ,' 



>. *■•- 



'7e6icaHoit 



Tba list of culinary literature is to large that it ia almost tke laakion 
to apologize for taxing a muck abused public ¥ritb the burden of a new book 
on this subject, and unless there were good reasons for it* the publication 
of another book of this character would be unwarranted. But every house- 
keeper knows that the only cook books of value are those which have been 
compiled by practical cooks and contain recipes that have been fully tested. 
Then it was felt that a good cook book would be a boon to many who last 
year lost the old pen-written heiiioom that had served so long. 

The names attached to these recipes, together with the statement 
accompanying them that they were **all tried and kno¥m to be good** is the 
best possible assurance of their value and reliability. It is a matter of regret 
that many choice recipes have been unavoidably omitted for lack of space, 
«nd others on account of their similarity to those already received. 

The compilers express their appreciation to those who contributed 
material for this book-— «nd their gratitude to the merchants and business 
men of Butfalo whose advertisements made its publication possible. 



Confident of its intrinsic value, the Ladies of Saint Luke's Sunday- 
School Auxiliary, Butfalo, Wyoming, commend and dedicate this second 
edition of the Butfalo Cook Book to all whose high function it is to 
make homes. 

MRS. M. E. COLGATE 
MRS. AUCE M. MATHER 

MRS. J. l: CAMI^ELL 

MRS. MARY GIVEN HOLT 

Committee 



h\ 



(TonUnts 



Pago 

Soups 9 

Fish , 17 

Game 27 

Poultry 31 

Meats ". . . 39 

Croquettes 53 

Eggs 57 

Condiments 63 

Salads 71 

Breads, Rolls, Etc 81 

Sandwiches '. 99 

Vegetables 1 05 

Pastry 119 

Cakes, Icings and Fillings 131 

Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc 157 

Cheese 169 

Desserts 1 73 

Ices and Ice-Creams 197 

Jellies, Jams and Preserves 209 

Canned Fruits and Vegetables 215 

Pickles 219 

Table Drinks 233 

Home Made Candies 237 

Food in Sickness • 243 

Miscellaneous 252 



 : ••■'Is 






*■?? 



'Jfow to <Z^k Tiushanbs 

So (Ut to makft tl)em ^enft^r anb <&oo6 



A giKMl many buibanda are •pailed id iha cooking. Soma women go 
about i( as if thoj were bladders and blow them up : othen keep them con- 
Btantly in hot water; othen let them freeze by their careleunew and indif- 
lerence. Soma keep them in a atew by irritatinK way* and words; others 
roast them. Some keep them in a pickle all their lives. '-' lAf 

It cannot be supposed that any husband will he tender and good man- 
aged in this way, but they are very delicious when propeHy treated. 

In selecting your husband, yon should not be guided by the eilvery 
appearance as in buying mackerel, nor by the golden tint, as if you wanted 
■olmon. Be snre to select him yourself, as tastes differ. Do not go to 
market for him, as the best are always brought to your door. It is always 
better to have none unless you learn how to properly cook him. 

A preserving kettle of finest porcelain is best, but if you have nothing 
better than an earthenware pipkin, it will do, with care. See that the linen 
you wrap him in is nicely washed and mended, with the required number of 
buttons and strings nicely sewed on. Tie him in the kettle by a strong silk 
cord called comfort, ai the one called duty is apt to break. They are apt 
to fly out of the kettle and he burned and crusty on the edges, since, like 
i crabs and lobsters, . you have to cook them alive. 

Make a clear, steady fire out of love, neatneu and cheerfulness, set 
him as near this as seems to agree with him. If he sputters and frizzes, do 

, not be anxious; some husbands do this until they are quite done. Add • 

little sugar in the form of what confectioners call kisses, but no vinegar or 

J pepper on any account. A little spice improves them, but it must be added 

I with judgment. 



Do not stick any sharp instruments in him to see if he is becoming 
tender. Stir him gently, watch the while lest he tie too flat and close to the 
kettle and so become useless. You cannot fail to know when he is done. 

If thas treated, you will find him very digestible, agreeing with you 
and the children, and he will keep as long as you want unless you become 
careless, and set him in too cold a place. ' ^ 



Soufs 



**Soup rejoices this stomach, and disposes it to digest 
other food.** 

NOODLES 

Mrs. L. Bodan 

1 Yi pints flour I teaspoon salt 
3 eggs 

Mix it with water as stiff as you can, work thoroughly until it 
has a fine grain, then with a long stick roll very thin on the bread 
board, roll up and cut in fine pieces. Cook with beef on chicken. 

DUMPUNGS FOR SOUP 

Mrs. G. B. Meldrum 

Butter, size of walnut Parsley or nutmeg 

2 eggs Flour 

Beat butter and eggs to a cream. Add| flour until thick 
enough to drop from a fork. Season with parsley or nutmeg. 
Drop in soup and cook five minutes. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP 

Cut bread free from crusts in half-inch squares, and fry in 
smoking fat 

EGG DUMPUNGS FOR SOUP 

Vi pint of milk Flour 

2 eggs 

Beat eggs very light, add milk and enough flour to make a 
smooth, thick batter. Drop spoonfuls into boiling soup. 



10 Soups 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Mr«. J. M. Erhart 

5 -pound soup bone 2 tablespoonfuls salt 

Put bone in large kettle and cover with cold water, adding 
the salt, and let stand on back of range one hour. Then let it 
boil slowly for five hours and skim well. After it has cooked 
three hours, add 

2 cupfuls of chopped cabbage Yi can tomatoes 
4 carrots 2 sticks celery 

Vi of medium sized turnip (or 1 teaspoon celery salt) 

1 small onion Parsley or any other herb 

1 pinch of cloves A little catsup 

1 pinch of allspice Pepper 

Cook 2 hours longer, adding boiling water when necessary, 
so as to keep the meat covered as when first put on. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Mr«. J. C. Vandyke 



I bunch celery I quart milk 

I lump butter Salt, pepper 



Cut celery into pieces one inch long, add enough water to 
cook tender. Add butter, salt and pepper. When celery is ten- 
der,vadd the milk and let come to the boiling point. Thicken 
slightly and pour over small pieces of bread previously fried to a 
light brown in a little butter. 

POTATO SOUP 

I quart milk 1 onion 

7 potatoes Bits of ham 

I stalk celery 

Add bits of ham to potato while cooking, boil milk with 
onion and celery. Mash potatoes, add milk, butter, salt and pep 
per to taste. 



Soups 1 1 



BEAN SOUP 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

1 pint beans Butter 

1 quart milk Salt, pepper 

Soak beans over night, cook until tender, and run through a 
sieve. Add milk, season with butter, salt and pepper. 

NOODLE SOUP 

2 pounds beef 1 egg 

1 onion 2 tablespoons milk 

Salt, pepper Flour 

Nutmeg 

Put beef on stove in cold water to extract juices. Allow it to 
simmer slowly. Add onion, pepper, salt and nutmeg. 

For the noodles, for a small family, use 1 egg, milk and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough ; roll out as thin as possible, and 
let it dry by turning occasionally. Cut into strips, and let them 
boil in the soup about ten minutes before serving. 

FRurr SOUP 

1 cup strawberry or currant 1 tablespoon sago, previously 

juice cooked 

Vi cup pineapple juice 1 tablespoon sugar 

I tablespoon lemon juice 
Serve cold with croutons. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

Mr«. E. B. Mather 

1 quart chicken stock Breasts of chicken 

I pint sweet cream I or 2 bunches of celery 

Butter size of an egg . Minced parsley 

I small tablespoonful flour Salt and pepper 

Cut breasts of chicken, add minced parsley, salt and pepper. 
Let the celery boil in the stock ten minutes, then add chicken, dien 
butter and flour. Boil one-half minute and serve. 



12 Soups 



OYSTER SOUP 

Mr«. E. B. Mather 



1 quart fresh oysters 3 or 4 crackers 

2 quarts fresh milk 2 tablespoons butter 
Salt and pepper 

Drain liquor from oysters, scald and skim off the scum that 
rises. Boil milk in double boiler. Roll crackers fine, and add 
salt, pepper, butter and crackers to milk when boiling hot; add 
oysters, liquor, and serve hot. 



OYSTER SOUP 

Mrs. Geo. F. Myers 

I quart rich milk 1 quart chicken broth 

I quart oysters Season with salt and pepper 

TOMATO SOUP 

Mrs. Lois Bennett 

I can tomatoes Salt, pepper 

2-3 can water Slice of onion 

4 vdiole cloves !4 teaspoon soda 

Brown slice of onion in tablespoon of butter. Boil all thirty 
minutes, add soda, strain and serve. 



CLEAR TOMATO SOUP 

Mrs. M. E. Colgate 

I can tomatoes 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

1 quart water Yi teaspoon soda 

I onion Salt and pepper 

Boil tomatoes, water and onion thirty minutes and strain. 
Add pepper and salt to taste. Two tablespoons of cornstarch 
mixed with a little cold water. Cook five minutes. Add 
soda and serve. 



Soups 13 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

Mra. Hulda Williams 

1 can tomatoes I chopped onion 

I pint water 1 Yi cups milk or cream 

I teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter 

Pinch of pepper 1 even teaspoon soda 

I tablespoon sugar I even cup of cracker crumbs 

Chopped parsley 

Put tomatoes, water, salt, pepper, sugar, parsley and onion 
together and cook thirty minutes, strain and put back on stove. 
When it boils add soda. In another kettle have scalded milk with 
butter and cracker crumbs. Add tomatoes to milk. Serve with 
a tablespoon of whipped cream on each plate. 

BOUILLON 

Mrs. P. M. Fisher 

A knuckle of veal with the bone chopped in several places, 
two tablespoonfuls salt and a small onion. Put on to boil in four 
queurts of cold water. Boil four hours, then add one qusurt of boil- 
ing water and boil two hours more. Strain through a cloth, let 
cool and skim off fat accumulated on top. This should be made 
the day before it is used. 

BOUILLON 

Mrs. Alfred Garson 

Vi pound fresh mushrooms 1 teaspoon salt 

1 quart chicken broth* 2 tablespoons butter 

Vi pint thick cream 3 tablespoons flour 

Peel mushrooms, remove lower part of stem. Wash them 
and chop fine with a silver knife. Put them in a saucepan with 
chicken broth. Cover and simmer gently thirty minutes, adding 
salt, and simmer ten minutes longer. Put butter in another sauce- 
pan, adding the flour, mix and cook one minute without burning. 
Add cream to mushrooms, then add the whole to butter and flour, 
stirring constandy until it comes to the boiling point. Add a 
dash of white pepper, and serve in bouillon cups. 



14 Soups 



PEANUT SOUP 

Mrs. Robert Ro«e 

I pint peanuts 1 tablespoon butter 

I pint milk I teaspoon salt 

1 pint water Pepper 

1 tablespoon flour 

Shell peanuts and remove skin. Grind Bne. Add the nuts 
to a cream soup made from a pint of milk and a pint of water, and 
flour rubbed to a paste with butter. Add salt and a little 
white pepper. 

MUSHROOM SOUP 

Mrs. M. E. Frame 

4 cups mushrooms 3 tablespoons flour 

4 cups water 1 cup cream 

4 cups chicken stock Salt and pepper 

4 tablespoons butter Celery salt 

Clean and chop mushrooms; cook in water until tender. 
Melt butter, add flour and the stock. Cook five minutes. Add 
mushroom mixture, cream and seasonings. Reheat, strain 
and serve. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

Made the same as Cream of Celery soup, substituting one 
cup of com. 



Memoranda 15 



16 Memoranda 



Ti5^ 



It is unseasonable and unwholesome in all months that have 
not an R in their names to eat an 03rster. — Butler. 

BOILED FISH 

Mrs. B. S. LAngworthy 

3 pounds fresh fish I Vi cups of milk 

Salt and pepper I tablespoon of butter 

Juice of half a lemon I tablespoon of flour 

Scrape fish and trim nicely, seasoning with salt and pepper, 
and wrap in a cloth. Serve with a dressing made of the milk, 
butter, flour and lemon juice. If desired, cut small pieces of pickle 
or olives in the sauce. 

STUFHNG FOR FISH 

Mr». T. M. MulhoUand 

1 quart bread crumbs, soaked Vi teaspoon salt 

in cold water I tablespoon butter 

I egg !4 teaspoon pepper 

I teaspoon ground sage Flavor with lemon juice 

FRIED MOUNTAIN TROUT 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Wash fish well and dry on a cloth; sprinkle salt and pepper 
inside the fish. Salt slighdy some white commeal. Roll trout in 
the commeal and fry crisp in lard or cottolene, with a lid on 
frsringpan. 

BAKED FISH 

Mrs. Lois M. Bennett, Sheridan, Wyo. 

Select fish suitable for baking and bake in an enamelware 
pan. Dust lighdy with pepper and add just enough water to keep 
from burning. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes for each pound, 
basting every ten minutes with salt water. Serve with egg sauce 
and garnish with parsley and lemon. 



18 



BAKED FISH 

Clean well; sprinkle with salt an hour before cooking; tie 
with a string; sprinkle flour over it, baste with butter and place 
on a wire gridiron across a dripping pan. Allow one and one- 
half hours for a good sized fish. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

Mrs. Lois M. Bennett, Sheridan, Wyo. 

Prepare the same as creamed fish. Put in a small baking 
dish. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until crumbs 
are brown. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

Mrs. Burt Griggs 

I cup cold fish, flaked 2 tablespoons flour 

1 Yi tablespoons chopped onion Yi teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped green A little paprika 

pepper or pimento I cup milk 

lYi tablespoons butter 

Make sauce of butter, flour and milk. Combine with other 
mixture, cover with buttered crumbs and bake one-half hour. 

TURBANS OF HALIBUT 

Mrs. Burt Griggs 

Butter Onion juice 

Lemon juice Salt, pepper 

Dip fillets of fish in a mixture of melted butter, lemon juice 
and onion juice, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Roll and 
fasten with toothpicks. Roast 20 minutes, basting often with the 
butter mixture. Serve with cheese sauce, as follows: 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup milk Y% teaspoon salt 

1 cup grated cheese Y^ teaspoon cayenne 

1 egg Y% teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons cream 

Melt butter, add cornstarch, milk, salt, cayenne and mustard. 
Stir in cheese. When cheese is melted, add the egg, diluted 
with cream. 



Fish 



^ 



SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. E. D. Metcalf 

Into a baking dish put one-half can of salmon. Break sal- 
mon into bits, taking out all the bone. Over this put a layer of 
cracker crumbs, then a layer of salmon, and lastly a layer of bread 
crumbs. Season with salt, pepper and butter, pour over milk 
enough to moisten thoroughly and bake one-half hour. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

Mrs. G. W. Munkres 

1 can salmon Vi cup hot water 

I egg 1 tablespoon flour 

I tablespoon butter Salt 

Cracker crumbs Pepper 

Drain juice from salmon, taking out the bone, add the egg, 
well beaten, and beat well together. Put on stove the water, 
adding the flour rubbed with the butter, seasoning with salt and 
pepper. Cover with cracker crumbs. Bake half hour. 

SALMON LOAF 

6 eggs, well beaten Vz cup of butter 

I can salmon (large can) Vi cup of milk 

I large cup bread crumbs Pepper and salt to taste 

Steam thirty minutes and serve. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

1 small can salmon Salt 

2 eggs Pepper 

Flour Chopped parsley 

Drain liquor from salmon and remove bone. Break into 
flakes, and add eggs beaten, seasoning with salt and pepper, add- 
ing a little chopped parsley. Mix together, adding a little flour 
to sti£Fen slightly. Mold into small cakes and fry quickly. 
Serve at once. 



20 Fish 



LOBSTER ON TOAST 

Mrs. A. W. Stevens 

I heaping tablespoon butter Salt 

I level tablespoon flour Pepper 

I cup cream Cayenne 

1 can lobster 1 can French peas 

Put butter in pan, and when melted* add the flour and cream, 
little by little, stirring carefully until a thick cream sauce is 
obtained. Season slightly with salt, pepper and cayenne. Add 
the lobster when it has been broken into one-half inch pieces. 
Drain the liquor from a can of French peas, and add to the lob-* 
ster mixture. Place cover on pan and cook three minutes. Serve 
on toast. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

Miss Mabelle Sage 

Vz cup butter I Vz cups cream 

2 tablespoonfuls flour Salt 

A little milk Dash of cayenne 

1 can oysters 

Melt butter and add thickening made of the flour and milk. 
Cook until thick and add cream. When hot, season with salt and 
cayenne. Into this put the oysters. Have buttered toast ready 
and pour mixture over. 

Instead of the oysters, one chicken, cut into small pieces, with 
one cup of mushrooms, can be used. 

OYSTER FRITTERS 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Oysters Flour 

I cup milk Salt 

4 eggs Pepper 

Drain juice from oysters. To a cup of juice add one cup of 
milk, a little salt, beaten eggs, and enough flour to make a batter 
a little thicker than for griddle cakes. Envelope an oyster in a 
spoonful of batter and fry in hot lard. 



Fish 21 



OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Mrs. Charles Baker 

2 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup I saltspoonful glated horse- 

1 dozen drops Tobasco sauce radish 

Juice of I lemon Dash of salt and pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls oyster liquor 

Make a sauce of the above ingredients. Put Bve oysters in a 
glass, and cover with the sauce. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Mrs. James Gallup 

1 queurt oysters I coffeecup crushed crackers 

2 tablespoonfuls butter V2 cup rich milk or cream 
Pepper, salt 

Butter baking dish and cover bottom with crackers; moisten 
with oyster liquor and few spoonfuls of cream; lay oysters closely 
over crackers, and a small piece of butter on each. Proceed until 
dish is full, making top layer crumbs with butter dotted over it 
Bake until juice bubbles to top, coyered. Uncover and bake 
until brown. \ 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Mrs. James Lowe 

1 queurt oysters 3 tablespoons chopped celery 

2 eggs 3 tablespoons of butter 
I Vi cups of fine dry bread or I cup of cream 

cracker crumbs 2 tablespoons water 

1-3 teaspoon onion juice ^ 

Beat the eggs and water together. Pick over, rinse and drain 
the oysters. Drop each one in the egg, then roll in cracker crumbs. 
Lay diem in a buttered baking dish. For each layer add a little 
salt and pepper, a drop or two of onion juice and a tablespoon of 
chopped celery. Repeat until dish is filled. Dot over with the 
butter. Add cream and bake about half hour in hot oven. 

A nice way to serve oysters: Put one tablespoon of butter in 
a small pan. When hot, add six oysters and cook quickly until 
o3raters cure plump and! edges begin to curl. Serve on a pieoe of 
toast Dust with salt and pepper and pour melted butter over all. 



fc. 



22 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Mrs. Colgate 

I pint oysters 1-3 cup melted butter 

I cup cracker or bread crumbs Salt, pepper 
(Add Worcestershire sauce, 

lemon juice, wine or mace, 

if desired) 

Wash and drain oysters. Moisten cracker or bread crumbs 
in melted butter. Butter a shallow dish, put in a layer of crumbs, 
then a layer of oysters, season with salt and pepper, then another 
layer of crumbs, then oysters and season, with a thick layer of 
crumbs on top. Bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes until crumbs 
brown. Many prefer to heat the oyster liquor and butter with an 
equal quantity of milk or cream, and use more crackers. In this 
way, a large dish may be prepared with the same quantity 
of oysters. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Mrs. Lois Bennett 

Oysters Egg 

Cracker crumbs Lard 

Salt and pepper Butter 

Drain oysters and season. Roll cracker crumbs until like 
flour. Dip each 03rster in cracker crumbs, then in beaten egg, 
then in cracker crumbs, and fry in one-half butter and one-half 
lard, using enough to cover o3rsters. 

CREAMED CODFISH 

Codfish 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint rich milk Salt 

I heaping tablespoon flour Pepper 
1 egg 

Soak codfish over night. In morning pick to pieces, remov-; 
ing any bones; put over stove in cold water and let come to a 
boil; drain and put in serving dish. Heat milk; rub flour with 
butter, stir into boUing milk, add I egg beaten, season with salt 
and pepper and pour over codfish. 



Fish 23 



CODFISH BALLS 

Mrs. Baker 

Codfish Butter 

Mashed potatoes Salt 

3 eggs Pepper 

Soak codfish over night, shred and put on in cold water, and 
let come to a boil ; drain, and when cold, add an equal amount of 
maished potatoes. For three cups of codfish, use three well beaten 
eggs, salt and pepper to taste, and a little butter; make into balls, 
and fry gently in hot beef drippings or in hot lard, like doughnuts. 

PUFF PASTE FOR OYSTER PATTIES 

1 pound flour Yolk I egg 

1 pound butter 

Wash the salt from Va pound of the butter, make into a flat 
cake and put on the ice to chill. Mix remainder of butter with 
flour SIS for pie crust, and use barely enough cold water, with yolk 
of egg added, to mix very stiff. Pound ten minutes with the end 
of the rolling pin. Put to chill. Bring in, fold both butter and 
dough together and roll from you three times. Set to chill. The 
third time it is brought in, roll out, cut with a round cutter four 
inches wide, cutting a small circle partly through for a lid. Bake 
in a pretty hot oven. Scoop out soft dough inside. 

FilUng For Patties 

1 can oysters I level teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter Yk teaspoon white pepper 

2 tablespoons flour Yolks of 3 eggs 
Juice 1 lemon 

Drain liquor from oysters and set over fire ; let come to a boil 
and skim well. Mix butter and flour, thin with some warm liquor; 
add to liquor, stirring constantly; sestson with salt and pepper. 
Stir in the raw yolks of eggs, one at a time, and lastly the juice of 
one lemon. Put oysters into sauce, and cook until edges begin to 
curl. Serve in shells at once. 



24 Fish 



BOILED MACKEREL 

Mrs. Lois Bennett 

Soak mackerel over night; in morning put in a pan with 
enough cold water to cover well, set on stove and let come slowly 
to a boil ; boil until tender, and remove to hot platter, cover widi 
bits of butter, or pour over three tablespoons of sweet cream. 



FRICASSEE OYSTERS 

Mrs. Colgate 

Drain oysters. Brown quickly in hot butter and season. To 
one pint of oysters, use one level teaspoon of flour mixed with 
one-half cup of oyster liquor. Add this to the browned oysters, 
and just before serving, add one well beaten egg and remove from 
the fire instandy. Serve on toast. 



SALMON HOLLANDAISE 

Vi cup butter I cup boiling water 

Yolks 2 eggs Vi cup French peas 

Vi lemon, juice I Vi cups salmon 
Pinch of salt 

Cream the butter; add yolks of eggs, and beat thoroughly. 
Add juice of the half lemon, and a pinch of salt; mix, and add 
gradually the boiling water, peas and salmon. Cook until 
it thickens. 



FRIED LAKE TROUT 

Mrs. Wilbur Williams 

Season medium-size trout with salt and pepper; cut bacon 
real thin, also lemons. Take trout, put two pieces bacon with 
several thin slices lemon on inside trout; place lemon between 
bacon; tie real good with string, roll in flour, and fry in hot lard. 



Pish 25 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG 

Mrs. Colgate 

Lobster 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

4 tablespoonfuls butter 14 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls brandy Yt pint cream 

2 tablespoonfuls sherry Yolks 4 eggs 

For six or seven persons, use the meat of a four-pound lobster 
or two small ones, equal in weight. Cut meat in pieces. Heat 
butter in pan, and put in lobster; cook slowly for five minutes. 
Add salt, pepper, ilierry and brandy, and simmer five minutes 
longer. Beat yolks of eggs well, add to the cream, pour over the 
cooking mixtifare, stir constantly for one and one-half minutes, and 
serve in a warm dish. 



26 Memoranda 



(barm 



Come, we have a hot venison pastry to dinner; come, gentle-* 
men, 1 hope we sh|il drink down all unkindness. — ^Shakespeare. 

ROAST VENISON 

Mr«. J. H. Lott 

Place a leg of venison in a roaster ; spread with a thick coat- 
ing of butter and lard mixed, season highly with pepper and salt 
and sprinkle with flour; pour in one cup of boiling water. Place 
cover on roaster and cook in hot oven, twenty minutes to 
the pound. 



VENISON STEW 

The most inferior cuts will answer. Cut the meat to cook 
into small pieces, cover with boiling water and cook two hours, 
adding more boiling water if necessary. Season; thicken the 
gravy with brown flour and serve. 



FRIED ANTELOPE 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

Roll in flour, season with salt and pepper, fry in hot lard and 
butter, and serve hot. 



DRY DRESSING 

Grind stale bread fine, season with salt, pepper and one small 
onion chopped fine; moisten with one-half cup butter. 



28 Game 



MOUNTAIN GROUSE BREASTS, SMOTHERED 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Slices of lemon Butter 

Flour 

Use only the breasts, leaving the legs to be fried. Place a 
row of tfiin alices of lemon around the pan; lay in breasts, season 
with salt and pepper, sprinkle flour over and add a number of 
small lumps of butter, and just a little water; cover pan and roast 
one and one-half hours — ^not quite so long if they are young and 
tender. Add water and make a gravy to serve with diem. 



FRIED FROG LEGS 

The hind quarters are used for food. After dressing, let lie 
in cold water until ready for use; roll in flour, dip in egg, then in 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard six or eight minutes. Season 
with salt and pepper. 



FRIED SAGE CHICKEN 

Mrs. M. E. Colgate 

Hang chickens in cool place until ready to use, then skin and 
cut in pieces. Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour and fry 
slowly in hot lard and butter. 

ROAST WILD DUCK 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

Pick and draw ducks. Let stand over nig^t in salted wiater. 
Then drain and put a small onion in each one. Put into ketde 
with salt and pepper. Cover with water and let this boil down 
and brown. After taking out, make gravy. 



Memoranda 29 



V 



Buffalo, Wyoming 

Dear Hoiuewife: 

The Quality Grocery 

always Kas a nice, clean line of good 
tKings to eat. 

TKe Empt«ss ana Uzar brands of Coffee 
and the lizar brand of Tea are not ex- 
celled any wKere. 

TKe canned Fruits and Vegetables are 
always selected witK care, so tKat you will 
Have the best qualit}^ at a reasonable price. 

Call at tKe store or PKone 73 and give 
your order, and we will try very Kard to 
please you. 

Trusting that you will give us tKat order 
nou?, we are 

Very respectfully, 

QuALmr Grocery 

J. L CAMPBELL, Prop. 



M 



"poultr? 



ROAST TURKEY WITH OYSTER DRESSING 

Mrs. Warren Gallup 

1 quart bread crumbs t cup butter 

t beaten egg Pepper and sage 

2 dozen fresh oysters 

Dress your turkey the day before you want to cook it. Pre- 
pare a dressing of stale bread, butter, and warm water enough to 
moisten; add the egg, pepper and salt to suit taste; mix all 
together and add oysters. After seasoning the turkey with salt 
and pepper, then put in the dressing and rub turkey with flour; 
put in a pan with one pint of boiling water. Roast about three 
and one-half or four hours, or t 5 minutes to pound. 

GIBLET GRAVY FOR TURKEY 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

Giblets Flour 

Salt and pepper 1 cup cream 

Boil giblets until tender with a little salt and pepper. Chop 
fine, and add to the juice of the turkey after removing turkey from 
pan. Thicken with a little flour and a cup of good cream or milk. 

APPLE STUFHNG . 

I pint tart apple sauce A little sage 

1 teacup bread crumbs Salt and pepper 

Mix, and use to stuff roast duck or goose. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN 

Mrs. S. E. Webber 

3 slices bacon 2 onions 

Fry bacon brown, add onions and brown ; remove bacon and 
onions, put in chicken and fry a light brown. Remove chicken 
and make a gravy by adding flour and water; replace chicken and 
steam for one hour on back of stove. 



32 Poultry 



PRESSED CHICKEN 

Mrs. Colgate 

3 cloves 3 peppercorns 

t stick cinnamon 3 slices of lemon 

Prepare and cook as for creamed chicken. Let liquor cook 
o£F until there is about a pint. One-half hour before taking from 
8tove» add cloves, cinnamon and peppercorns; cool slightly, cut 
chicken into pieces and put into a mold. Line edge of mold with 
three slices of lemon, quartered. Remove fat and spices from 
liquor, and pour over chicken. Set in a cool place. 

Pressed veal is treated in the same way. 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

Mrs. L. G. Canterbury 

Prepare chicken in the usual manner and when filling mold 
place a thick layer of chicken, then a layer of hard-boiled eggs, 
then another layer of chicken. Place under weight When set 
and sliced the egg will be in the center. Garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Mrs. Wilson McBride 

Boil the chicken until tender, adding water as it boils away, 
so as to have plenty for gravy; season with salt and pepper; 
thicken the gravy, adding plenty of cream. 

Make a rich biscuit dough — a well beaten egg added to the 
dough is liked by some. Line the sides of a pan with dough, put 
in the chicken, having plenty of gravy to cover it well; put on top 
crust having opening in center. Bake till crust is thoroughly done. 

CHICKEN POTPIE 

Mrs. A. G. Lucas 

Stew chicken until tender; take out; put in a layer of chicken, 
then a layer of sliced raw potatoes, then a layer of dumplings, 
then a little butter, salt and pepper between each layer. Pour 
juice over and simmer slowly until potatoes and dumplings 
are done. 



Poultry 33 



CHICKEN TURNOVERS 

Mrs. Celia Wall 

Chop cold roast chicken very fine, put into a saucepan 
and place over the fire; moisten with a little gravy or cold water 
and a piece of butter; season with salt and pepper, adding a small 
tablespoon of sifted flour, dissolved in a little cold water. Heat 
thoroughly and remove from the fire to cool. When cold, roll out 
some plain peistry quite thin, cut in rounds sis large as a saucer, wet 
the edges and put a large spoonful of minced meat on one half 
and fold over, and fry them in drippings a nice rich brown. They 
may also be baked in a moderate oven. 

Cold roast beef or any cold meat may be used in the 
same way. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN (EXCELLENT) 

Mr«. Warren Gallup 

Dress chicken several hours before ready to fry. Put some 
lard with a little butter in a fr3ring-pan, and let it get hot before 
putting in the chicken; salt and pepper chicken, and roll in flour; 
put in frying-pan and cover and set in oven to fry; turn once. 
This is so much better than cooking on top of stove. 

TO FRY AN OLD CHICKEN 

Mrs. Geo. Holt 

Cut the chicken in pieces, put in covered vessel (without 
seasoning), set in steamer, and steam until tender; take out and 
roll each piece in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, fry in hot 
lard and butter until brown. Make a gravy with cream, seasoned 
with salt, pepper and a little mace, thickened with a little flour. 
Make this in the pan in which the chicken was fried. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

Mrs. Van Dyke 

Split young chickens open on the back. Put giblets on the 
stove to boil tender. Lay chickens in a flat pan breasts down, 
season with salt, pepper and bits of butter, sprinkle flour over and 



34 Poultry 



roast with pan covered for three quarters, or an hour. Baste fre- 
quently and a few minutes before serving, turn over and brown 
breasts. Make gravy of the juice left in the pan. 



CREAMED CHICKEN 

Mrs. Colgate 

Dress chicken and cook whole in enough salted water to 
cover. Let cool in liquor. Remove bone aoid cut in dice. Scald 
one pint of fresh milk. Add a stalk of celery. Rub to a smooth 
paste one heaping tablespoon of butter and, one of flour; gradu- 
ally thin the butter and flour with the warm milk, until all are 
mixed smoothly. Let simmer a few minutes, stirring constantly; 
season to suit taste and put in chicken just before serving. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

Mrs. Chas. B. Duffy 

Vi cup celery Yi tesispoonful salt 

I pint cream Pepper 

1 tablespoon butter Vi cup chopped cooked chicken 

2 scant tablespoons flour Cracker crumbs 

Boil celery in cream. Rub together the butter and flour. 
Stir into the cream and celery to thicken. Then strain and add 
salt and pepper, and[ chicken chopped medium fine. Cover with 
buttered cracker crumbs. (Roll the crackers fine, melt the butter 
and stir into the crumbs until rather dry. ) 

Three chickens (or 13 pounds) is enough to serve thirty 
people. For this amount, use a good quaurt of cream. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

Mrs. S. C. Langworthy 

Cut Up two chickens, r6ll in flour, and place in casserole. 
Season with salt, pepper, paprika, one clove of garlic, and* half an 
onion, cut into small pieces. Cover with milk and a little water, 
also small pieces of butter. Bake slowly from two to three hours. 



Poultry 35 



CHICKEN LOAF 

Mrs. J. M. Erhart 

Put meat from uncooked chicken through grinder. To each 
pound, mix in Vi teaspoon salt, }A teaspoon pepper, four soda 
crackers (rolled fine), two hard-boiled eggs (chopped), Va can 
tomato sauce. Press into bread pans and baJce in moderate oven 
for two hours, baisting with water and melted butter every fifteen 
minutes. Set on ice. Slice when cold. 



r 



36 Memoranda 



\ 



Memoranda 37 



f 





Demand 

FROM YOUR GROCER 

Sunkist Peas 

Sunkist Com 

Sunkist Salmon 

Sunkist Spinach 

Sunkist Pimentos 

Sunkist Pineapple 

Sunkist Tomatoes 

Sunkist Tuna Fish 

Sunkist Asparagus 

Sunkist Ripe Olives 

Sunkist Dried Fruits 

Sunkist Seeded Raisins 

Sunkist Sweet Potatoes 

Sunkist Porh and Beans 

Sunkist Strinfiless Beans 

Sunkist California Canned Fruits 

THEY ARE BETTER 

Onken Bros. Company 

Sole Distributors 

SHERIDAN. \7YO. 








Mleats 



^eef 



When meat is tough, add!' a little vinegar or lemon juice to 
the water in which it is boiled. 



BREAD BALLS 

Mr*. J. C. Van Dyke 

Bread Butter 

Milk Nutmeg 

Salt, pepper Sage or parsley 

Break bread in small pieces, moisten with milk. Season with 
salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add sage or parsley and a piece of 
butter. Make into balls and roast with the meat. Serve on the 
same platter. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

I cup sifted flour Salt 

1 pint milk Vi teaspoonful bakingpowder 

2 well beaten eggs 

Mix batter smoothly, adding eggs last. Pour in pan with 
roast and bake twenty minutes. 

ROAST BEEF 

Mr«. Mulholland 

Take five pounds meat, remove ribs and skewer the meat in a 
round shape. Put pan on top of stove. Let it get smoking hot. 
Lay beef in, sear first on one side, then on the other. Add one 
cup of boiling water and set in a hot oven. After it has cooked 
twenty minutes it may be seasoned ; baste often and roast fifteen 
i minutes to the pound. 



40 Meats 



BAKED BEEF RIBS 

Mrs. L. R. Van Houten 

Three pounds of beaf ribs. Wash thoroughly. Put in roas- 
ter, add salt and pepper and cover thickly with flour; add water 
to almost cover the meat, and rub all this over to have it nearly 
like a paste. Cook three hours in a slow oven. Baste with gravy, 
and when done your meat will be tender and you will have a 
delicious gravy. 

BROILED STEAK 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 

Put broiler over a bed of hot coals. When smoking hot 
place steak in pan; brown on both sides. Place on a platter and 
season with salt, pepper and chunks of butter. 



/ 



HAMBURG STEAK 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

Put one round steak through a meat grinder; season with salt 
and pepper and add one onion, chopped; make into a flat cake 
and fry in hot lard or drippings. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

Mrs. M. E. Frame 

1 pound round steak Vi cup bread crumbs 

2 ounzes beef suet Salt and pepper 
% cup chopped onion 

Put meat and suet through meat chopj^:;. add onion and sea- 
son. Shape in balls; roll in crumbs, ai»^^poil over a clear fire. 

ito sauce or Spanidi 
sauce. Gamidi with parsley. 



Meats 41 



RUSSIAN STEAK 

Mrs. Richard Young 

2 !4 pounds porterhouse or flat- Yz cupful diced, cooked celery 

bone sirloin steak, I Yi inches 3 tablespoonfuls sliced stuffed 

thick olives 

I Yi tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful Worcester- 

I teaspoonful salt shire sauce 

!4 teaspoonful pepper 2 tablespoonfuls tolnato 

Yi cupful diced, cooked mush- ketchup 

rooms Yi cupful cooked, diced carrots 

Lay the steak in a baking dish, dredge it with the salt and 
pepper, dot with the butter and three or four pieces of fat cut from 
die steak. Mix together the vegetables and seasonings, spread 
over the steak and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Steak 
cut one inch thick should be cooked only fifteen minutes. 

SWISS RQAST 

Mrs. A. G. Lucas 

Take a round steak, flour on one side and pound thoroughly. 
Do the same on the other side. Put in a skillet with hot lard or 
drippings and brown on each side. Then cover with one onion 
chopped and one large tomato sliced, or an equal quantity of 
canned tomato. Pour over this a little water and simmer slowly 
on the back of the stove one and one-half hours. Just before 
serving, season and serve with a gravy over it. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

Slice onions and fry slowly one and one-half hours in a little 
lard. Broil beefsteak and just before serving, cover beefsteak 
with onions. 

BEEF WITH CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

Make a creamed sauce with browned flour, add one cup of 
currant jelly, and twelve thin slices of rare roast beef. Cook until 
hot and serve. 



42 Meats 



IRISH STEW 

Mrs. Mulkolland 

Have good meat cut in small pieces. Put in an iron kettle 
that has been heated thoroughly. Stir the meat until brown on 
all sides. Salt and pepper and add one heaping teaspoonful of 
flour. Let brown and add boiling water. Set on the back of 
stove and let boil slowly. In thirty minutes put in two onions and 
in two hours add potatoes. 

BRAISED OXTAIL 

Mrs. S. E. Ne¥rton 

Select a nice oxtail. Wash well, and put to boil with plenty 
of water to cover. Salt, and let boil for three hours. When done 
enough to pick easily from the bone with fork, have a piece of 
butter browning. Take one tablespoonful of flour, a dash of pep- 
per and salt. Lift the meat into this, and let it brown. Shake 
the skillet back and forth as in popping com. 

This is delicious. 

MEAT RECIPE 

Mr«. Stone, Gillette, Wyo. 

Vermicelli Red pepper 

Round Steak Tomatoes 

I onion Cheese 
Salt 

Put one cup of vermicelli to soak in warm water. Let sim- 
mer while you fry a twenty-cent piece of round steak. Then 
grind steak. Add Uquor from frying-pan, one ground onion, 
vermicelli, salt, red pepper and one cup tomatoes. Cover top 
with grated cheese and bake twenty-five or thirty minutes. 

FRIED STEAK 

Mrs. M. E. Colgate 

Fry a little suet in frying-pan. Have it smoking hot Put in 
steak and brown quickly on both sides. Put on platter and season 
with salt, pepper and butter. Or season steak with salt and pep- 
per and roll in flour and fry in smoking-hot suet. 



Meats 43 



POT ROAST 

Mrs. Heuman 

Take a round steak, cut three inches thick. Cut in two-inch 
squares. Fry a little of suet in a kettle, put in meat and brown. 
Add water and cook slowly for three hours or until tender. Have 
enough water to make brown gravy by adding thickening. If 
desired add half can of mushrooms. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

One-half pound of dried beef shaved. Put on in cold water, 
let come to a boil and pour oflF. Put beef on platter. Heat one 
pint of rich milk and thicken with one tablespoon of flour rubbed 
with one tablespoon of butter. Season and pour over the beef. 

BEEF LOAF 

Mrs. Van Dyke 

2 Vi pounds beef 1 Vi pounds salt or fresh pork 

2 eggs 1 dozen soda crackers 

2 cups milk Salt and pepper 

Have beef and pork ground together. Season with salt and 
pepper. Mix in the beaten eggs and most of the cracker crumbs, 
leaving enough to roll the loaf in. Make in loaf shape and bake 
one and one-quarter hours. 

VEGETABLE MEAT LOAF 

Mrs. Bert Woodside 

I Vi pounds lean beef 2 large, or 3 small green pep- 
I pound fresh pork pers chopped (not seeds) 

I cupful canned tomatoes 1 heaping cupful grated bread 
Vi cupful onions crumbs 

I well beaten egg 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Grind beef and pork through the meat grinder. Add 
tomatoes and onions, chopped. Mix all thoroughly, pack in but- 
tered bread pans, and bake one and one-half hours. Serve hot 
or cold. 



44 Meats 



WONDERS 

Mm. Celia Wall 

Use any bits of cold meat chopped fine. Use half as much 
potato as meat, and the same of bread broken fine and moistened 
with hot water; one good tablespoonful of flour made into a 
smooth paste for thickening, two or three eggs and any cold 
gravy that may be left over; season well and drop from a spoon 
in a hot, well greased spider. 

MYSTERY 

Mrs. W. H. WUkerson 

Take cold roast beef, cut in pieces and cook until very tender. 
Put through a meat grinder, and to two cups of meat add four 
medium-sized cooked potatoes, chopped, one cup of bread 
ciumbs put through the chopper, three well beaten eggs, and any 
gravy left over, or the water in which the meat was boiled. Bake 
one-half hour. 

MEAT BALLS WITH CAPER SAUCE 

Mrs. G. B. Meldrum 



Hamburg steak I 

Veal I pinch cloves 

2 slices bread Pepper 

Little onion Salt 

Use one-half hamburg steak, one-half veal, chopped. Can 
use heunburg and pork. Soak bread without crust, and squeeze 
out dry. Mix in egg, add cloves and salt and pepper to taste; 
add little onibn. Make this into balls and fry covered, as they 
cook quicker and not too brown ; put in little water and butter. 

For the Sauce: 
Butter I tablespoon capers 

I tablespoon flour Lemon 

Vinegar 

Remove meat; add more butter, flour, vinegar to season, 
and capers. Butter and water according to amount of gravy 
wished. Few slices of lemon on top. 



Meats 45 



BREAKFAST DISH 

Chop cold beefsteak fine, cook in a very little water for one- 
half hour; add one cup of good cream, thicken with one table- 
spoonful of flour, season, and pour over hot toast. 

PICKLED BEEF TONGUE 

Mrs. G. T. Astell 

Wash a fresh tongue and boil in salted water until tender. 
Peel tongue while warm, slice into a jar. Heat the following: 
I pint vinegar 1 dozen allspice 

I cup water Vi dozen black peppers 

I dozen cloves 3 or 4 bay leaves 

Pour over the tongue while hot. 



Veal or Mtutton 



ROAST VEAL 

Mrs. Colgate 

Put in roaster and salt, pepper and flour. Grate the yellow 
rind of a lemon with the dressing instead of onion, reserving a 
little for the top of the roast. Roast twenty-five minutes to the 
pound in a moderate oven. 

VEAL CUTLETS 

Mrs. Burt Griggs 

Use slices of veal from the leg or shoulder. Cut one-half inch 
thick. Remove bone, skin and cut in pieces for serving. Sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and dip in flour, egg and cracker crumbs. 
Saute slowly until well browned. Remove cutlets to a saucepan 
and pour over them one and one-half cups of brown sauce. 
Place on back of stove and cook slowly forty minutes. Remove, 
skim gravy and dilute as needed. 

Brown Sauce 

Three tablespoonfuls butter, one pint milk, six tablespoon- 
fula browned flour. Melt butter, add flour and cook one minute; 
add gradually the milk and bring to a boil. 



^ 



46 Meats 



VEAL ON TOAST 

i 

Mrs. G. W. Munkres 

I 

Chop any left-over. veal fine; season with salt, pepper and 
moisten with tomato catsup. Spread on toast for breakfast. 

SPICED VEAL 

Mrs. I. W. Blake 

3 pounds veal 3 eggs, well beaten 

% pound chopped salt pork Vz cup tomato catsup 

3 soda crackers Vi teaspoon salt 

Vi teaspoon pepper Grated rind of one lemon 

Put in pan, and bake slowly two hours. 

PRESSED VEAL 

See pressed chicken. 

CALF BRAINS 

Mr«. Chas. S. Baker 

Soak the brains in luke-warm salt water for two hours to dravr 
out the blood. Rinse and remove membrane. Dip in beaten 
egg and cracker and fry in hot lard a delicate brown. 

CALF BRAINS SCRAMBLED WITH EGGS 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Soak two sets of brains in salt water; wash, skin and put into 
a frying-pan with hot butter, brown well and break in four eggs, 
season and scramble all together. 

BREADED SWEETBREADS 

Mrs. E. D. Metcalf 

Boil twenty minutes and when cool split them, season widi 
salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg and cracker crumbs and fry a 
light brown in hot lard. Serve with tomato sauce. 



Meats 



CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

Plunge into water and let stand one-half hour; drain and 
cook in boiling water, to which has been added one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice or vinegar. Blend two tablespoonfuls of flour 
vrith two of butter, gradually add one and one-half cups of hot 
milk, bring to the boiling point, add sweetbreads diced and season 
"wiAk salt and pepper. 

MUTTON 

Mutton for roasting should have some butter rubbed over it 
and dredged with salt, pepper and flour. Baste often and roast 
t^fventy minutes to the pound. Serve with mint sauce or melted 
currant jelly. 

MUTTON OR LAMB CHOPS 

Have the frying-pan smoking hot Lay in the chops and 
turn rapidly until chops are seared on both sides, then add some 
drippings, cover and fry until thoroughly done. Season just be- 
fore taking from pan. Serve with mushroom catsup and mashed 
potatoes. 

TO ROAST LEG OF LAMB 

Mrs. Van Houten 

Put meat in roaster. Rub with pepper, salt and flour. Then 
put a thick layer of drippings over roast. Baste every twenty 
minutes and cook one and one-half hours. When done pour off 
fat and put water in pan for gravy. Serve with mint sauce. 



llorK 



BOILED FRESH PORK 

Mrs. Geo. J. Holt 

Use a shoulder or ham of fresh pork. Wash well, cover with 
strongly salted water, season with a few cloves and a scant cup 
of vinegar. Cook until tender. Serve cold sliced. (This is 
excellent. ) 



Meats 



ROAST PORK 

Rub meat well ¥dth salt, pepper and flour. Put in roaster 
and put on a little water and cook twenty minutes to the pound 
in a good hot oven. 

PORK CHOPS WITH APPLES 

Put chops in frying-pan. Season with salt, pepper and a little 
sage. Fry covered until chops are thoroughly done. Fry apples, 
in the pork fat When apples ate brown lay diem over the chops. 

BAKED SPARERIBS 

Mra. C. A. Given 

Lay ribs in a wide kettle or pan; season with salt and pepper. 
Pour in one cup of water and let simmer one-half hour. Take 
out, put in roaster and brown on both sides in the oven. 

BOILED HAM 

Soak a ham over night Put over to boil in cold ^ater; 
when this is boiling hot pour oflF and put on more cold \^ater. 
Add one-half cup of vinegar and one-half dozen whole cloves. 
A fifteen-pound heun requires five hours* boiling. Let cool in the 
water it was boiled in. 

BAKED HAM 

Mrs. A. C Lucas 

Soak one medium-sized ham over night. Wash thoroughly. 
Make a paste of commeal and water, with just enough flour to 
keep it from cracking. Put a layer of paste on bottom of pan, lay 
in ham, skin down, envelope the ham in the paste, and bake in 
a slow oven all day. 

TOAD IN THE HOLE 

Roll one-half pound of sausage into six balls. Place these 
in a greased baking dish. Make a batter of two eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one-half pint of sweet milk. Pour this 
over the sausage and bake one hour. 



Meats 49 



MINCED HAM NOODLES 

Mrs. G. T. Astell 

One egg beaten light, a pinch of salt, and flour to make as 
8ti£F as you can work it Roll out very thin, let dry a few mo- 
ments, then roll up sind cut in narrow strips. Boil noodles for 
five minutes, drain in a colander, and add two cups of cold ham 
that has been chopped and seasoned with salt, pepper and butter. 

SAUSAGE 

Mrs. John G. King 

Use trimmings from hams and shoulders and the tenderloin 
for the sausage. Salt, pepper sind mix sage in to suit taste. It b 
well to have a pan on stove and cook a small piece to test the 
seasonings Grind well, and pack in jars and pour heated lard over 
it; cover it well; if any sausage is exposed it will spoil the whole 
jar. If treated properly, it will keep for months. 

CORNED REEF 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

4 pounds salt 2 ounzes salt petre 

4 pounds brown sugar 

Enough water to cover meat. This proportion is for one- 
hundred pounds of beef, or for what a small keg will contain. 
Boil brine and when cold pour over meat which has already been 
packed in your keg or crock. Put plate and weight on meat 
Meat will be ready in three weeks. 

CURING HAMS, SHOULDERS AND BACON 

Mr*. John King 

When meat is trimmed and ready for curing, rub thoroughly 
with salt, using all that will stick to meat. Put in clean barrel and 
let stand in cold place ten days. When time is up take from 
barrel, shaking o£F surplus salt. Make brine as follows and pour 
over: To five gallons of cold water add nine pounds conunon 
salt, one pound Freeze-Em pickle and two pounds sugar. Mix 
well and pour over meat Have meat well covered with the 
brine. Keep well weighted down so no meat, will be exposed. 
If too salty when ready for use, add more water. 



50 Memoranda 



Memoranda 51 




Stockgrowers 
Bank of Buffalo 

Buffalo, Wyoming 



Capital and Surplus, $ 45,000.00 
Deposits - - $250,000.00 



FRED WAEOELE. President 
J. W. TODD. Vice-Pres. 

S. C. LANGWORTHY, Cashier 

F. E. WHITCOMB, Asst. Cashier 



T^HIS bank was organized in January, 1902, 
-'- and from a small beginning is now one of 
the big banks of Northern Wyoming. Our 
business has increased each year as the country 
has developed. 

We aim to take care of our customers in hard 
times as well as good, and our strong banking 
connections enable us to obtain money at 
any time. 

We will be very pleased to have you call in and 
talk with us, and can assure you that the small 
depositor or borrower will meet with as much 
consideration at our hands as the large one. 





(Troquettes 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Mrs. E. H. Smock, Los Angeles 

2 cupfuls chopped chicken Vi pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 gill mushroom liquor 

1 tablespoon flour 1 can mushrooms 
Salt and pepper 

Chop mushrooms fine, and salt and pepper to taste. Heat 
milk and mushroom liquor, rub butter and flour together, and 
add to milk; season, and pour over ground chicken. Roll in 
cracker, egg and cracker, and fry in hot lard. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

Mrs. W. H. Holland 

2 cups cooked rice 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

Make into balls, roll in flour, and fry in hot lard. 

HAM CROQUETTES 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

1 cupful mashed potatoes Vi tablespoonful butter 

Vi cupful chopped ham Dash of cayenne pepper 

Yolks 2 eggs 

Heat the potato and add the butter and yolk of one egg, salt 
to taste, and cayenne. Heat the ham, add the other yolk and 
cook for two minutes. Take some potato, form a hollow in the 
palm of the hand, put in a teaspoon of ham, fold over into a flat 
ball and fry in hot lard. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

Mrs. Burt Griggs 

I Vi cups grated mild cheese A few grains cayenne 
I tablespoonful flour Whites 3 eggs 

!4 teaspoon salt Cracker dust 

Mix cheese, flour and condiments; add the stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs, shape in balls, roll in cracker dust, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain thoroughly, and serve with wafers as a cheese course, 
or serve with salad course. 



54 Memoranda 



Memoranda 55 



78 



Salads 



CRAB MEAT SALAD 

Mra. P. Healy, Jr. 



Yi cupful heavy cream 
Vi tablespoon salt 

1 egg ^ 

Yi cupful condensed m3i(«.\« 

5 tablespoons lemon j^ 

!4 teaspoonful celery sadt 

1 cupful crab meat '-'"'•' 



1 Vi tablespoons flour 
y4 tablespoons mustard 

2 tablespoons sugar 
Vi tablespoon granulated gela- 
tine 

V4 cupful cold water 
2 tablespoons butter 

Mix flour, mustard, sugar and salt. Add egg, slightly b 
condensed milk (unsweetened) and lemon juice. Cook 
hot water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens; strain, 
add gelatine (soaked in cold water), butter, celery salt, 
mixture begins to thicken, add one cupful of crab meat, and cr 
beaten until stiff. Turn into molds and chill thoroughly. U 
molds are used, represent eyes with peppercorns. Serve willri 
salad dressing. 



i.1 



CABBAGE SALAD 

Mrs. J. M. Erhart 

Chop very fine one solid head of cabbage, place in an ea 
vessel, sprinkle with salt, let stand an hour. After draining 
through colander, mix thoroughly into it, with a silver fork, two 
or more chopped tart apples. Pour over it the following dressing: 

2 teaspoons mustard mixed in 

boiling water 
4 tablespoons sweet cream 



Yolks 2 well-beaten eggs 
Pinch of red pepper 
fi cup good vinegar 
2 tablespoons sugar 

Mix well all but eggs, 
cabbage while hot. 



Scald, stir in eggs, and pour over 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CUCUMBERS 

Mrs. J. A. Terry 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes. Remove thin slice from the 
top of each, and take out seeds and some of the pulp. Sprinkle 
inside with salt, invert, and let stand one-half hour. Fill toma- 
toes with cucumbers cut in cubes and mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing. Arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish with mayonnaise 
dressing. 



Memoranda 



79 



Horseradish Cream 

MlXaUvel tahleupoonfulB grated horae- 
radiBh.ltsbleBpoonful vinegar (tea- 
spoonfal salt and a dtuh of paprika- add 1 
cupful whipped cream. Serve with Wliced' 
cold beef or tongae. If bottled horeeradiBh 
IB used, preBB dry and omit vinegar. 



Quick Aspic 



Ingredienti 

a box amnulHted aslatliie 

1 amaUcanvt, and onion, chopped 
I bay leaf, ^ tAftspoonful cfllery seed 
Juice of tuilf a leznon, uUt. popper 
1 Jerol tCABpoonfol beef ex^'ect 
Time: Preparation, 28 minute* 

Number terved: 6-8penMu 

SOAK gelatine in one-lialf cupful cold 
mler. Add vegetables and seasoning 
to remaning two cupfuls of irater; bring to 
boiling pointy boil eight minutea, add ex- 
tract and gelatine. Stir until diBsolved, 
add lemon, strain through cheese-cloth 
into a shallow pan. Chill. Serve, cut into 
blocks, as a ganiiah for cold meat. 



Buffalo Machine Of Motor Woffcs 

MACHINE SUPPLIES WELDING AUTO SUPPUES 

Main Street —- Rea. Phone 165" J 



All Kinds of Machinery Repeured and New Parts Made« 
Our Welding Department will make your broken parts as 
good as new — ^just save the pieces. Supplies for All Autos 



GOODRICH TIRES AND TUBES 

SILVERTON CORD TIRES 



El?erpthin6 in the Bakerp Line J!^ST^m 



CITY BAKERY 

E G. GUYER, Proprietor 

SHERIDAN, WYOMING 



Home of Butter -- Nut Bread 

Thb Bread is made in a particular way, of the Best Materials. 
We have the sole right to produce it in this locality. 
Get it in BUFFALO of J. L. CAMPBELL, Grocer, 
who receives it iiresh every day. 

Send Us Your Orders for Special Oeeiuioru 
We reach You hp Parcel Post Anpwhere 



breads, ^olU, TEtc* 



Here is bread which strengthens man's heart and therefore is 
called the Sta£F of Life. — Mathew King. 



Good flour and pure yeast are absolutely necessary in mak- 
ing good bread. In the first molding, all the flour should be put 
in, and the most kneading given. 

Brush the tops of the loaves with butter* before putting in 
oven. This will keep the crust moist. 

Graham flour should be bought in small quantities. It spoils 
by long keeping. 

Brown bread that has grown stale makes delicious milk toast. 

UQUID HOP YEAST 

Mrs. W. P. Adams 

4 potatoes 1 Yi cups flour 

I large handful hops 1-3 cup sugar 

I tablespoon ginger 1 -3 cup salt 

I tablespoon flour 2 yeast cakes 

Boil potatoes. Boil hops in a granite pan. Put into a gallon 

igar, and salt. Mash potatoes, add potato wa- 

and pour through a sieve onto the ingredients 

ould be about one gallon. Scald one table- 

M two yeast cakes, and when light, add to 

31 keep for two months in a cool place. 

YEAST 

Winterling, Sheridan 

Vi cup sugar 

1 tablespoon saClt 

Pinch of hops 

|uart of water. Mash and pour over 

Vhen cool, add yeast foam, sugar and 

^8, tie in cloth a good pinch of hops. 

t has risen. Use one-half cup at bak- 



jar, gmge 
ler 




! r . g a.. nw i Mgai 



82 Bread, Rolls, Etc. 



BREAD MADE WITH MILK 

Mrs. W. H. Wilkenon 

I quart sour or sweet milk 1 yeast cake (or I cup liquid 

1 quart boiling water yeast) 

1 tablespoon lard Salt 
Flour 

Pour in boiling water with milk. If sour milk is used, let the 
curd settle to the bottom, and strain o£F the whey. Put in lard 
and make a sti£F batter with flour. Add yeast cake, or liquid 
yeast, and let stand over night. In the morning, add salt and as 
much water as necessary, and mix sti£F. Work down twice before 
putting in the pans. 

UGHT BREAD 

Mrs. F. G. S. Hesse 

3 pints flour 2 large kitchen spoonfuls salt 

2 large kitchen spoonfuls 1 cup yeast 
sugar Potato water 

2 kitchen spoonfuls melted 1 quart water 
lard 

Take flour, sugar, salt, yeast, and enough potato water to mix 
soft batter. Beat well, and let rise over night. Next morning, 
take batter, add warm water, lard, and work in flour until dough 
is free from sticking. Let rise, mould into loaves. Lard each 
loaf, using no flour. Let rise. Then put into oven and bake. 



RYE BREAD 

Mrs. Geo. T. Astell 

2 cups bread sponge Rye flour 

1 pint warm water Caraway seeds 

1 heaping teaspoon salt 

Mix stiff as ordinary bread with rye flour. Let rise, make 
into loaves, let rise, and bake in a quick oven one hour. Add a 
few caraway seeds if desired. 



■^ 



■S.S -a 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 83 

SALT-RISING BREAD 

Mrs. Van Dyke 

2 medium-sized potatoes 2 tablespoons commeal 

sliced thin 1 tablespoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Over this mixture pour one quart of boiling water. Make 
this at noon and keep in a warm place until next morning. This 
should have a white foam all over the top. Add to this one tea- 
spoon of soda. Stir and pour off the water into a bowl. Stir in 
flour until it drops from the spoon. Set in a kettle of warm water 
105^ F. It should take not more than one and one-half hours 
to become very light. Make this up stiff like common bread with 
one tablespoon of lard, salt and one and one-half pints of scalded 
milk. Let milk cool until luke warm. Work until it snaps. Put 
in pans. Let rise and bake. This bread will not have the offen- 
sive odor which some salt-rising bread has. 

RAISED GRAHAM BREAD 

Mrs. Colgate 

I pint water or milk Vi cup, or Vi yeast cake 

I pint flour Vi cup sugar 

I large pint graham I tablespoon salt 

Have milk or water blood warm. Add yeast and flour. 
Beat until wholly smooth. Set in a cool place to rise over night. 
In the morning, add salt, sugar and graham, a little at a time, beat- 
ing vigorously. Turn into greased pans, let rise one hour, and 
bake one hour. 

ANISE BREAD 

Mra. C. Burckert 

Yolks 12 eggs, beaten 2 pounds sugar 

Whites 1 2 eggs, beaten Anise seed 



Beat yolks of eggs, and the whites to snow. Beat sugar with 
yolks one-half hour, add flour until it runs from spoon like candied 
honey. Lasdy, add whites of eggs and anise seed, two table- 
iq[>oonfuls. Bake in a long narrow pan. Cut in slices one-half 
inch thick, and toast a delicate brown in oven. 






84 Bread, Rolls, Etc. 



WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Mr*. Lois Bennett 

Make sponge as for ¥rhite bread. Make stiff widi whole 
wheat. Knead thorous^y, let rise twice, make into loaves, let 
rise, and bake one and one-quarter hours. 

HOMINY SPOON BREAD 

Mrs. Richard Young 

3 cups cooked hominy grits Vi cupful butter melted 

Vi cupful commeal 1 teaspoonful bakingpowder 

1 1 -3 cupfuls milk K teaspoonful salt 

Mix ingredients in the order given, preferably while the 
hominy is a little warm. • Pour into a shallow buttered baking dish 
and bake until brown and firm — about 35 minutes — ^in a mod- 
erate oven. 

BROWN BREAD 

Mrs. A. W. Kennedy 

. 2 cups commeal 2-3 cup molasses 

2 cups graham flour 1 teaspoon soda 
2 cups buttermilk t egg 

Steam two hours, and bake fifteen minutes. 

BROWN BREAD 

Mre. Murray Patch 

1 cup graham flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup commeal 1 rounding teaspoon soda 

1 cup rye flour Yi cup sugar 

Yi cup raisins Yi cup sorghum 

2 cups sour milk (one- third cream improves bread) 

Sift salt, soda, sugar, graham, rye and commeal together. 
Wash raisins and mix with dry ingredients. Then stir in milk and 
sorghum. Cook by setting covered cans in hot water and boil 
three hours. Dry off in oven. 



Bread, Rolls Etc. 85 

BROWN BREAD 

Mrs. Hulda £. WUliams 

IVi cups sour milk Vi cup molasses 

1 teaspoon salt t teaspoon soda 

2 cups commeal I cup graham flour 

Steam three hours. 

BROWN BREAD 

Mrs. Moeller 

t cup buttermilk 3 cups graham flour 

3 cups sweet milk Vi cup sugar 

I cup New Orleans molasses 1 teaspoon soda 
I cup commeal 1 teaspoon salt 

Add one cup of raisins, dates or figs if desired. Steam in 
bakingpowder cans three hours. Bake one-half hour in a slow 
oven. This will make five loaves if cans are filled two*-thirds full 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD 

Mrs. J. C. Flint 

I pound soft butter Pinch of bakingpowder 

4 cups flour 1 heaping cup sugar 

Work all together until smooth. Roll out and cut with cook- 
ing cutter. Bake in slow oven until a golden brown. 

GRAHAM NUT BREAD 

Mrs. Mabel Balden ^ 

3 cups graham flour I cup sugar 

Vi cup ¥rhite flour 1 cup nut meats 

I teaspoon salt 3 cups milk 
3 teaspoons bakingpowder 

ir all together, let rise fifteen minutes, and bake one hour. 






86 Bread, Rolls, Etc. * 

WHITE NUT BREAD 

Mrs. C. A. Given 

4 cups flour 1 cup walnuts 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

4 teaspoons bakingpowder 2 cups milk 
1 egg 

Stir all together and bake one hour. 

CORN BREAD 

Mrs. T. P. Hm 

* 

1 Vi pints commeal 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

1 tablespoon lard 2 eggs 
1 pint sweet milk 

Work lard cold into flour and meal, eggs and milk. 

CORN DODGERS 

Mrs. Johnston, Springfield 

Scald one and one-half pints of commeal salted. Let cool. 
Stir in the whites of two eggs beaten sti£F, and bake twenty 
minutes. 

SOUTHERN CORN CAKE 

Mrs. p. Healy, Jr. 

Va cupful commeal ^ 5 teaspoons bakingpowder 

1 14 cups flour - 1 cup milk ^ 

Vi cupful sugar 1 egg 

Vi teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Sift cornmeal, flour, sugar, salt and bakingpowder. Add 
milk and egg, well beaten, and melted butter. Beat well, pour 
in greased pans, and bake in moderate oven twenty-five or thirty 
minutes^ 



■I 

r 



■flirfU 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 87 



GRAHAM CREAM BISCUIT 

Mrs. H. C. Jones 

1 cup white flour Scant teaspoon bakingpowder 

1 cup graham Milk and cream 

A pinch of salt 

Mix flour, graham, salt and bakingpowder, then add one-half 
milk and half cream stirred in until stiff enough to handle. Roll 
quarter inch thick, cut in shape, pick with fork, bake in moderate 
oven twenty minutes. 

BISCUITS 

1 quart flour 3 teaspoonfuls bakingpowder 

Lard, size of an egg Sweet milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

Use enough sweet milk to make a soft dough. Handle as 
little as possible, and roll slightly. 

BISCUITS 

Mrs. Miller, Bellefouche, S. Dak. 

Use sour milk which has thickened. To each cup of milk use 
one heaping tablespoon of bakingpowder and one-half teaspoon 
salt. No soda. Mix with flour very soft and bake quickly. 

SODA BISCUITS 

Mrs. Adams Webb 

1 quart flour I tablespoon lard 

1 teaspoon soda Pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon bakingpowder 1 Yi cups sour milk 

ENGLISH TEA BISCUIT 

Mr«. Colgate 

I cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

Vi cup butter 1 cup milk 

1 cup English currants 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

Flour 

Cream butter and sugar, and add other ingredients, using 
enough flour to make a soft dough to roll out Cut very small. 



r.T.-nnfiSAMi 



88 Bread, Rolls, Etc. 

BEATEN BISCUIT 

Mm. T. p. Hill 

1 quart flour I teaspocMi salt 

1 tablespoon lard Yi pint milk 

Yi pint water 

Add salt to flour. Then rub the lard thoroughly into it with 
the hands. Take milk and water. Add gradueJly to the flour, 
stirring and kneading all the while. The dough diould be very 
sti£F; knead five minutes, and beat thirty minutes. Then form 
into small biscuits, stick with a fork, and bake in a moderately 
quick oven twenty or twenty-five minutes. They should be 
brown on top and the sides almost white. 

BUNS 

Mrs. Geo. T. Attell 

1 quart bread sponge 1 pint milk boiled and cooled 
Yi cup melted butter' A little salt 

Ya cup sugar 

Stir in flour until thick Plough to leave the spoon. Let rise 
twice and pinch o£F bits, roll into a ball, put quite a distance apart 
in a buttered pan. Bake a delicate brown and cover with a heavy 
clodi until cold. 

PENNY BUNS 

Mrs. F. M. Canton 

2 cups cold water Yi cup sugar 

1 cake yeast foam 2 tablespoons lard 

2 eggs I teaspoon salt 
6 cups flour 

Take yeast cake, and soak in Yi cup of cold water, and let 
stand till supper time. Then mix all ingredients cold to about the 
consistency of doughnut dough. Put in pans for breakfast, or 
keep some for other meals, but to be kept cold all the time. 



r  liiii « iifcMM^MMiha— 



1 14 cups bread sponge . ^^^ ««.«•*• 

I pint fre^ milk boiled Pinch of salt 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 89 

KOUCHS 

Mrs. Geo. Actell 

I cup sugar 

. , Pinch of salt 

Vz cup butter Rind one lemon 

Let milk cool, then mix all together, with flour enough to 
until it leaves the spoon. Let rise twice, let rise into 
biscuits. Let rise again, and push down the center. Fill with any 
kind of tart fruit Let rise once more and bake in a quick oven. 
Brush top ¥ridi lard. 



SPLIT ROLLS 

Mrs. J. H. Sage 

1 pint bread sponge 3 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar Pinch of salt 

Add enous^ flour to make a soft dough. Let rise, and make 
into round rolls, and brush over with melted butter. Now flatten 
¥rith hand, and turn one-half over the other. When very light; 
bake five minutes, take out of oven, and run melted butter 
over each. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Mrs. Alice Scott 

2 heaping cups of bread Vi cup butter 

sponge I teaspoon salt 

t cup sweet milk scalded Vz cup sugar 

Flour to make a soft dough. Knead well and let rise twice. 
Roll out and shape with a biscuit cutter. Dip the handle of a case 
knife in flour and with it make a crease in the middle of each 
piece. Brush over widi butter, fold and press edges together. 
Place in greased pan one inch apart Let rise and bake fifteen 
minutes. 



90 Bread, Rolls, Etc 



CINNAMON ROLLS 

Roll out bread doug^ thin. Spread vrith melted butter, sugar 
and cinnamon. Roll up, and slice one inch thick. Lay in a pan. 
Let rise, and bake. 



I 



I 



CINNAMON ROLLS 

Mrs. H. S. Oliver 

1 pint milk I pint bread sponge j 

2 tablespoons butter 2 qusurts sifted flour I 
Vi cup sugar Cinnamon ; 
Pinch of salt Currants 

Melt butter and sugar in the milk, and when cooled, add 
sponge, salt, and flour, and set to rise. When light, roll out one- 
quarter inch, rub over with butter, sprinkle with cinnamon, sugar 
and currants. Roll up and slice crosswise in one-inch pieces. Put 
in pan, let rise, and bake. Frost top if desired. 



MUmNS 

Mrs. p. Healy 

I egg I 1-3 cups flour 

3 tablespoons sugar 1 -3 teaspoon salt 

I cup milk and cream, mixed 1 teaspoonful bakingpowdex 

Beat eggs and add sugar, milk and cream, mostly cream. 
Sift flour and salt with bakingpowder. This makes eight gems. 

CREAM MUFnNS 

Mrs. A. W. Stevens 

1 pint flour Yolks two eggs 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 ^ cups sweet cream 

2 teaspoons bakingpowder Whites 2 eggs 

Sift flour, salt and bakingpowder four times. Add yolks of 
eggs beaten lightly, arid sweet cream, whipped. Be&t thoroughly, 
and fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 91 < 



RICE MUFHNS 

Mrs. B. S. Langwortky 

I cup boiled rice I cup flour 

Vi cup sweet milk I teaspoon baking^owder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 



CEREAL MUFHNS 

Mrs. O. A. Leggett 

1 Vi cups flour 1 cup cold oatmeal 
Vi teaspoon salt Vi cup milk 
3 teaspoons bakingpowder 2 beaten eggs 

2 tablespoons melted butter 2 tablespoons sugar 

Sift flour, salt and bakingpowder together; then mix in cold 
oatmeal, using a fork for this purpose. Then add milk, eggs, 
butter and sugar. Grease heated muffin tins, fill one-half full vdth 
batter, and bake at once. 

POP OVERS 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

I cup flour Vk cup milk 

!4 teaspoon salt 2 

Vi teaspoon melted butter 

Mix salt and flour. Add milk gradually to have a smooth \\ 

batter. Then the beaten egg and butter. Beat two minutes vdth 
an egg beater and turn into hot gem pans. The pans must be 
burning hot or this gem will not rise. Iron pans are best and have 
them smoking hot. This makes one dozen. 

GRAHAM GEMS 

Mrs. Fred Hesse 

IVi cups graham flour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

I teaspoon soda 2 eggs 

I teaspoon salt Small piece of butter 

Beat all well together, using buttermilk until you have a thin 
batter. This will fill two eight-cup gem pans. 



^j 



93 Bread, Rolls, Etc. 



GRAHAM GEMS 

Mrs. P. Healy. Jr. 



I egg, beaten Va cup white flour 

3 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

t cup milk I -3 teaspoon salt 

1 (4 cups graham flour 2 table^oons melted butter 

Beat the egg, add sugar, milk, graham flour, measured after 
sifting. 

GRAHAM GEMS 

Mrs. Cttlia Wall 

I cup sour milk I teaspoon melted butter 

1 teaspoon soda Vi teaspoon salt 

2 eggs Graham flour 

1 teaspoon sugar 

Use enough graham flour to make a thin batter. Beat well, 
and bake in gem pans in a quick oven. This will make a dozen. 

WHEAT CAKES 

Mrs. Adams Webb 

2 cups sour milk 1 teaspoon soda 
t teaspoon bakingpowder 1 teaspoon salt 
t-3 cup commeal Flour 

Use enough flour to make a medium stiff batter. Beat 
thoroughly. 

FLANNEL CAKES 

Mrs. C. N. Walters 

t pint sour milk Yi teaspoon soda 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Flour 

Use enough flour for a medium stiff batter. Beat thoroughly. 



Bread, Rolls, Etc. 93 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

Mrs. E. B. Matker 

Vi yeast cake Buckwheat 

3 cups warm water Vi cup buttermilk 

Salt Yi teaspoon soda 

Graham flour Sugar 

Soak yeast cake; add this to warm water, with a litde salt. 
Use enough buckwheat flouk' to make a thick batter, using a little 
graham with the buckwheat, and let stand over night in warm 
place. Take out one cup, add to remainder the buttermilk and 
soda. Save the cup of this batter to start cak^ for next time 
Add a little sugar if desired. 

CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mrs. G. E. A. Moeller 

2 cups meal Sour milk 

I cup wheat flour I teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt (or sweet milk and baking- 

3 well-beaten eggs powder) 

Scald sifted meal, mix with wheat flour, and salt. Add the 
well-beaten eggs; thin the whole with sour milk, enough to make 
it the right consistency. Beat well, and add a teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in a little water. If sweet milk is used, use two 
teaspoonfuls of bakingpowder instead of the soda. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mrs. G. E. A. Moeller 

2 cupfuls cold boiled rice Vi teaspoon salt 

1 pint flour I Vi teaspoons bakingpowder 

I teaspoon sugar 1 egg 

Vi pint sweet milk 

Sift together flour, sugar, salt and bakingpowder. Add rice, 
free from lumps, diluted with egg and milk; mix into a smooth 
batter. Have griddle well heated and greased. Make cakes 
large, brown nicely, and serve with maple syrup. 



1 



94 Bread, Rolls, Etc. 

CORN CAKES 

Mrs. Percy Wilkerson 

2 cups sour milk Vi teaspoon salt 

I level teaspoon soda Commeal 

I esrs: Flour 



Use commeal and flour enough to make batter, using one- 
third flour, and two-thirds commeal. 

WAFFLES 

Mrs. Hill 

I quart flour Vi teaspoon soda 

3 eggs beaten separately Little salt 

Lard, size of hen's egg Sour milk 

WAFFLES 

I pint sweet milk 1 teaspoon salt 

I qusurt sifted flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

3 teaspoons bakingpowder 2 tablespoonfuls melted 

6 eggs, well beaten butter 



FRIED MUSH 

Make mush by stirring commeal into salted boiling water 
until a thick, smooth mush is formed. Boil slowly for one hour or 
more. Put in a mold, and let stand over night Slice, and fry 
slowly in enough lard to cover slices, or drop into hot lard, like 
doughnuts. 



FRENCH TOAST 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

3 eggs 1 cup cream 

Beat eggs, and add cream. Dip slices of bread in this, and 
fry on a hot griddle with butter. 



Bread, Rolls, £ta 95 



FRITTERS 

Mt4. C. S. Baker 

2 eggs A little salt 
1 cup milk Flour 

Use flour enough to make a stiff batter. Drop into boiling 
lard. Serve hot with syrup or sweetened cream. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

1 quart sweet milk Vi teaspoonful salt 

3 eggs Flour 
12 apples chopped fine 

Beat eggs separately. Add whites last of all. This will take 
the place of bakingpowder. It is an improvement if the apples 
1^, are sprinkled with lemon juice just before putting in. 

RICE FRITTERS 

1 cup cooked rice 2 eggs beaten separately 

Vi cup sweet milk Flour 

Use flour to make a rather stiff batter. 

RICE CAKES 

Mr«. J. C. Van Dyke 

Stir one tablespoonful of hot water into a cupful of well 
cooked rice. Beat the yolk and white of one egg separately and 
add to the rice. Season with salt. Drop from spoon on a well- 
buttered pan and bake brown. Serve with maple syrup. 



96 



Memoranda 



fit a ) u ~)\i'/lf \ r-^ 









v^ 











Memoranda 97 



IMHMMKMMMM^BMg- — ri' '-J ' „ I II »— m»iJ>i^^»»«KI*« 



Cook With Electricity 

CHEAPEST, CLEANEST AND SAFEST 




Turn the Switch 

The Fire is Hot 
And You Can Satisfactorily Cook and 
Bake any Recipe Found in this Book 



Buffalo Manufacturing Co. 



3 



"nShe Best Results 

\7ith Recipes in this book 
can only be obtained by using 



Acme Fl our 



It is made especially 
for Pastry Use 



Buffalo Mf^. Co. 



m= 



M 



Sait6wicl)e5 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. C. H. Parmelee 

Into a cooked salad dressing grate sufficient cheese to make 
a rich, smooth paste. Add, if desired chopped pickle or olives. 
Spread between thin slices of bread. 

CELERY SANDWICHES 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Butter bread thin on the loaf, cut lengthwise of the loaf, and 
roll tight around two tender stalks of celery. Tie with baby 
ribbon. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. W. Munkres 

Chop hard-boiled eggs fine, mix with salad dressing and 
spread between thin slices of bread. A little minced ham may 
be added. 

OUVE SANDWICHES 

Mix chopped olives and nuts with salad dressing, and spread 
vnth a lettuce leaf between thin slices of bread. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 

Mrs. Carl Kube 

Rub skin from peanuts, grind and mix with salad dressing. 
Put between thin slices of bread. 

ORANGE SANDWICHES 

Use orange marmalade between thin slices of whole wheat 
bread. 



100 Sandwiches 



BANANA SANDWICHES 

Mrs. Ja«. Hibbard 

Slice four bananas thin, and squeeze the juice, of one-half 
lemon over them; let stand for twenty minutes. Cut crust from 
oblongs of white bread, spread with a litde thick sweet cream 
that has been slightly sweetened. Arrange the bananas on the 
bread. Wrap each sandvdch in waxed paper before serving. 

MINCED SANDWICHES 

Vi pound lean ham 4 ounzes butter 

2 chopped pickles Yolk of I egg 

t tablespoon mustard 

Chop ham very fine, adding chopped pickles and tablespoon 
of made mustard. Put butter in pan, stir over the fire until it 
melts, add the ham and beaten yolk of egg. Season, stir all 
together well. When cool, cut in slices and lay between slices of 
buttered bread. 

DATE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. Ja«. Hibbarcl 

Vi cup Stoned dates Vi cup sweet cream 

Vi cup English walnuts 

Chop dates and walnuts fine, and rub to a paste with cream. 
Spread between rounds or diamonds of crustless bread. 

NASTURTIUM SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of white bread with mayonnaise dressing. 
Use the petals of the flower or the leaves for filling. Put between 
the slices of bread. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Boil one chicken whole, when done have only one pint of 
water over it. Cut chicken in small pieces, season, pour liquor 
over it, and set to harden. Slice and put between thin slices of 
bread. 



Sandwiches 101 



CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

Boil chicken until very tender. Pick from bones, and grind 
in meat chopper. Season with salt and pepper, and use enous^ 
cream salad dressing to make a soft paste. Add one cup chopped 
nuts, and spread between thin slices of buttered bread, placing a 
lettuce leaf between each. 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. Patsy Healy 

Slice bread thin and remove crusts. Between two pieces of 
bread lay a piece of cheese and sprinkle the cheese with salt 
Cover the top slice of bread with melted butter and paprika. 
Place in hot oven until top is brown and cheese melted. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES 

Mrs. Patsy Healy 

Vi teaspoon sugar I tablespoon tarragon vinegar 

Vi teaspoon salt !4 teaspoon Worcestershire 
2 table^oons olive oil sauce 

I tablespoon scraped onion 

Dip slices of cucumber in French dressing made after above 
recipe and lay between buttered rounds of bread cut thin. 
Sprinkle cucumber with salt. 

CLUB SANDWICHES 

Mrs. M. E. Colgate 

Bread Salad dressing 

Bacon Lettuce 

Cold chicken 

Toast as much bread as needed. Spread with butter. Lay 
lettuce leaf on it, a slice of thin hot bacon, a slice of cold chicken, 
a litde salad dressing, another lettuce leaf, then a slice of toast 
and serve at once. 



102 Memoranda . 



Memoranda 103 



The Buffalo Pharmacy 



Htadquartmrm for 

PURE DRUGS 



if 



Patent Medicines, Perfumes and 
Toiltet Articles *  » 

Special Attention Given to Fam- 
ily Recipes  + + 

A Registered Druggist Always 
in Charge *   * 



T. J. GATCHELL, Prop. BUFFALO, WYO. 



httl 



Occidental Hotel 

O. N. QUICK. Proprietor 
BUFFALO. WYO. 

UvtamSeA trout straun within  few feet (rf HoteL 



^ 



1 



Vegetables 



BALLAD OF VEGETABLES 

i 

A potato went out on ^ mask 

And sought an onion bed; 
* 'That's pie for me I** observed the squash 

And all the beets turned red. 
**Go *wayl** the onion, weeping, said; 

**Your love I cannot be; 
The pumpkin be your lawful bride — 

You cantaloupe with me.** 

But onward still the tuber came, 

And lay down at her feet; 
'*You cauliflower by any name 

And it will smell as wheat; 
And I, too, as an early rose. 

And you Tve come to see; 
So don*t turnip your lovely nose. 

But spinachat with me.** 

**I do not carrot all to wed. 

So go, sir, if you please I*' 
The modest onion meekly said, J 

**And lettuce pray, have peas I ^ 

Go, think that you have never seen 

Myself, or smelled my sign; 
Too long a maiden I have been 

For favors in your rye!*' 



«• 



Ah, spare a cuss I** the tuber prayed; 
My cherryshed bride you* 11 be; 
You are the only weeping mcdd 
That*s currant now with me.** 
And as the wily tuber spoke 
He caught her by surprise. 
And, giving her an artichoke. 
Devoured her with his eyes. 

— Philadelphia Record. 



106 Vegetables 



CELERY 

Mr«. Loi« M. Bennett, Sheridan, Wyo. 

Celery may be served plain or stewed with a cream sauce oi 
stuff each stalk with cottage cheese to which tiny bits of pimento 
have been added. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST 

Wash stalks and remove any tough parts. Tie in small 
bunches and cook in a deep kettle of boiling salted water. Cook 
upright for the first ten minutes. Drain, and serve on buttered 
toast. Sprinkle with bits of butter, pepper and salt. 

ASPARAGUS DRESSING 

Mrs. G. B. Meldrum 

Rub butter and flour together, then pour water from aspara- 
gus into this, stirring all the time. Salt and pepper to taste, a littl^^ 
nutmeg and vinegar should be added. Lastly, the whipped yolk 
of an egg. 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

Cut asparagus into pieces about two inches long, boil until 
tender, and drain. Make a dressing of 1 cup milk, seasoned %vith 
salt and pepper, thickened slightly. Lastly add large piece of 
butter, and pour all over asparagus. 

STRING BEANS 

Mrs. Geo. T. Astell 

Snap the ends from beans, and cut into one inch pieces. Boil 
one and one-half hours, or until tender. Pour off water and add 
one cup of sweet cream with a little flour, salt and pepper. 



Vegetables 107 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Mrs. Burt Griggs 

I pint beans I Vi teaspoons salt 

Vi teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons molasses 

Va to Yi pound salt pork 1 tablespoon sugar 
1 teaspoon mustard 

Soak beans over night in cold water. Drain, wash and rinse 
well. Cover with cold water, and bring to a boil. Drcdn, cover 
with boiling water, add soda and cook until beans are just pierce^ 
able with a pin. Drain, and rinse with hot water. Scald pork 
rind. Remove one-fourth inch slice for bottom of bean pot. 
Score the remcdning rind, bury in the beans. Mix ingredients 
with one cup boiling water and pour over beans. Add enough 
boiling water to cover beans. Cover pot and bake slowly eight 
or twelve hours, replenishing with water as needed. The last 
hour remove lid and allow beans to brown. 

BEETS AS A VEGETABLE 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 

Boil unpeeled beets until tender. Remove skin and cut in 
dice.- Heat in butter, season with salt and pepper. 

SAUR iCRAUT 

Mrs. Geo. Astell 

Boil saur kraut until tender. Drain water off, and sprinkle 
"with a heaping teaspoon of flour. Pour pork drippings over top 
and stir well. 

SAUR iCRAUT WITH DUMPUNGS 

Boil saur kraut with ham bone or small piece of salt pork 
until tender. Just before serving, mix duniplings as for chicken, 
and drop a spoonful in a place on top of the boiling kraut. Cook 
until dumplings are thoroughly done. 

BOILED GREEN CORN 

Plunge into hard-boiling water, slightly salted, and let boil 
ten minutes. Serve on the cob, or cut off and serve with salt, 
pepper and butter. 



108 Vegetables 



GREEN CORN PUDDING 

Mr.. T. P. Hill 

1 2 ears com 1 tablespoon flour 

I quart rick milk 2 tablespoons white sugar 

Vi cup butter 4 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Cut com Jhrom cob. Add milk and butter, melted; sugar 
enough to make a little sweet, and eggs well beaten. Season with 
salt and pepper. Put the mixture into a dish and bake. 

FRIED CABBAGE 

Mrs. Walter Smith 

Cut cabbage very fine, salt and pepper. Stir well, and let 
stand five minutes. Have an iron skillet smoking hot. Drop 
one tablespoon of butter into it. Put in cabbage, and stir briddy 
until tender. Add one-half cup of cream. Stir well, remove 
from fire, and add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

SOUTHERN CABBAGE 

Mrs. Walter Smith 

I head cabbage Salt 

Vi teacup wine vinegar Pepper 

Sugar Vi teaspoonful mustard 

I teacup cream 2 teaspoonfuls salad oil 

' egg 
Chop cabbage fine. Put into a stewpai\ with water to cover 
it Boil fifteen minutes. Drain off all the water, and add the fol- 
lowing dressing: 

Half teacup vinegar, using two-thirds as much sugar, salt and 
pepper, adding mustard and salad oil. When this is boiling hot, 
add cream, sweet or sour, with egg stirred into cream. Mix 
thoroughly with the cabbage and cook just a moment. 

FRIED ONIONS 

Mr8. F. E. Lucaa . 

Slice onions evenly. Soak in sweet milk twenty minutes 
Roll in flour and fry in butter. Season to taste. 



Vegetables 109 



CARROTS 

Wash and scrape. Soak in boiling salted water. Drain, 
and serve with a cream sauce, or fry in butter. 

FRIED PARSNIPS 

Mrs. C. N. Walters 

Peel, slice and boil in salted water until tender. Then roll 
in egg, then in cracker dust and fry in hot lard. 

POTATO CHIPS 

Mr.. T. P. Hill 

Slice potatoes with a potato slicer, put in cold water for one 
half hour, drcun on a dry cloth, and fry in hot lard, stirring occas- 
ionally, and taking out as they brown sufficiently. 

POTATOES BAKED IN MILK 

Mrs. Bruce Taylor 

Slice in strips, put in pan, cover with milk. Season with 
salt, pepper and butter. Cover with lid, and bake two hours with- ^ 
out stirring. 

NEW POTATOES 

Mrs. L. R. Van Houten 

Put potatoes in a double rice boiler, cover with milk, add pep- 
per, salt and a few leaves of green English mint. Add one table- 
spoonful of butter. It will take one hour to cook them. Remove 
mint leaves before serving. 

BROWNED POTATOES WITH ROAST MEAT 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

Peel potatoes, and cut large ones in two, so as to make them 
all of even size. When roast, either beef or pork, is nearly done, 
lay potatoes in pan around the meat, with gravy enough to about 
half cover, and bake with meat until tender. 



110 Vegetables 



POTATOES ON THE HALF SHELL 

Bake nice smooth, rather long potatoes. When done, take 
out the inside and mash; season as for mashed potatoes. Put 
back in shells, and brown nicely. Serve immediately. 

POTATO DUMPUNGS 

Mrs. A. Heumann 

One dozen medium-sized potatoes. Boil with the jackets, 
and let get perfectly cold. It is well to do this the day before. 
Grate them, and add one-half cup melted butter, salt to taste, 
three large tablespoons of flour, and three eggs, the yolks and 
whites beaten separately. Shape into balls the size of an egg, and 
boil in salted water fifteen minutes. Drop one in the water, and 
if it doesn't hold together, add a little flour. When done, pour 
over browned butter and serve hot. 



POTATOES WITH SAUSAGE 

Mrs. J. S. McWilliams 

Pare medium-sized potatoes, and with paring knife blade, 
bore hole through long center. Fill cavity with fresh sausage. 
Place in bake dish. Salt and pepper, add water and bake until 
potatoes are cooked and browned. If wanted for meat dish, add 
extra sausage, and cook same way. 

POTATO SOUFFLE 

Mrs. Lois M. Bennett, Sheridan, Wyo. 

Add one cup of mashed potato to the beaten white of one 
egg. Place in a dish and brush over with yolk of egg and brown 
in hot oven. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in lengthwise slices, 
with brown sugar, and brown in a hot oven. 



J 



-- -■-■ 



Vegetables 111 



POTATO PUFF 

Mrs. E. D. Metcalf 

One cup masked potatoes. Mix thoroughly with one well- 
beaten egg, one-half cup milk, and one teaspoon bakingpowder. 
Season with salt and add enough flour to make stiff enough to 
make into cakes. Fry in hot lard. 



POTATOES A' L' ANTLERS 

Mrs. J. A. Terry 

Cook potatoes with jackets on. Drain and let stand four 
hours. Peel and cut in small cubes. Put into a saucepan with a 
tablespoon of butter to each cup of potatoes. Sprinkle with salt 
and generously with paprika. Add cream to cover, and cook 
slowly forty minutes. 

SPINACH AS GREENS 

Wash a number of times to remove all grit. Cook three- 
quarters hour in salted water. Drain, chop and season with butter 
or bacon drippings. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

To one cupful of cooked spinach, add the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Stir over the (ire until egg is cooked; let cool. Stir in the 
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, and place in oven ten or fifteen 
minutes. Serve at once. 



BAKED SQUASH 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Peel squash, cut in slices one inch thick, sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, a little sugar, and bits of butter. Bake one hour. 



112 V^etables 



PANNED TOMATOES 

Mrs. Wilson McBride 

2 tablespoons butter 1 pint milk 

6 tomatoes Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 

Put tomatoes in pan, with butter. Cook slowly on top of 
stove for ten minutes, and brown in oven. Put tomatoes on a hot 
platter. Add to the browned butter the flour, also the milk, 
season and put on tomatoes. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Cut a small slice from the top of large round tomatoes. Salt, 
pepper, and lay a piece of butter on the top of tomato. Set them 
upright in a granite pan, and bake one half hour in a rather 
hot oven. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATOES 3 

Mrs. Wilbur Williams 

Boil macaroni in salt water for fifteen minutes. Drain, sea^- 
son with pepper, salt and three tablespoons butter. Add one 
small can tomatoes, two small onions, and bake in a slow oven 
forty-five minutes. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATOES 

Mrs. F. S. Hayward, Chicago 

8 thin slices of bacon 1 package spaghetti 

2 medium-sized onions Salt, pepper 

1 can tomatoes Cayenne 

Slice bacon thin, and brown with two onions sliced very thin. 
Cook gently until slightly brown, then add tomatoes. Season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne, and simmer gently for thirty 
minutes. Add spaghetti, which has been cooked in salt water 
until tender. Then cook the whole mixture fifteen minutes or 
more, adding enough of the saltwater to make of right consistency. 



J 



Vegetables 113 



TOMATOES WITH RICE 

Cook one-half cup of tomatoes, a little parsley, a few drops 
of onion juice and salt and pepper to taste. Let cook a short 
time; remove parsley and stir in as much boiled rice as can be 
moistened with the tomatoes. Serve hot with cracker biscuits. 

PEAS 

Cook peas in salted water, using just enough to cover them., 
Drcdn and pour pure cream over them, or season with buttet 
and pepper. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

Steam cauliflower until tender. Sift over a little salt while 
steaming. Make cream sauce and pour over before serving. 

HOW TO COOK RICE 

Wash one cup of rice, and drain. Plunge into two quarts of 
boiling salted water; boil rapidly until it has swollen to full size. 
Remove to back of stove, and steam three quarters hour. Do not 
stir. If cooked in this way, rice will be tender and the grcuns 
whole. Or rice may be boiled for two hours in a double boiler 
with milk — one cup of rice and four cups of milk. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

Mrs. S. E. Newton 

Select large, smooth peppers. Remove top and seeds. Put 
die cups and tops in salt water for half hour. Take 

I cupful cold rice 2 onions 

I cupful chopped ham 2 slices stale bread 

I teaspoonful salt Yi teaspoonful pepper 

Soak bread, squeezing out all the water. Mix all together, 
with salt and pepper. Fill cups and put tops on with a thin slice 
of bacon on top of each one, with a toothpick. Let bake one and 
one-half hours without cover. Put cold water to cover. 



114 Vegetables 



STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

Mrs. Burt Griggs 

Peppers Vi cup cold chicken or veal 

t pinch soda Salt and pepper 

Vi cup boiled rice Paprika 
Yi cup tomato puree 

Remove seeds from peppers, and parboil ten minutes in boil- 
ing water, to which has been added a pinch of soda. To the rice, 
add the highly seasoned tomato puree, and let stand on back of 
stove until rice has absorbed tomato ; add the chicken or veal cut 
in cubes, season with salt and paprika. Fill peppers with mixture, 
cover tops with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are 
brown. Remove to circular pieces of sauted bread, and pour 
over mustard sauce: 

Mustard Sauce 

I tablespoon butter Vi cup boiling water 

1 teaspoon flour 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon mustard Yolks three eggs 

Salt Cayenne 

Add boiling water to butter, flour and mustard, then add 
vinegar, and yolks of eggs well beaten. Cook in double boiler, 
stirring constantly. Season with salt and cayenne. 



GERMAN BEANS 

Mrs. S. E. Newton 

Either canned or fresh beans. If fresh beans are used, par- 
boil in plenty of salt water until tender. When done, cut bacon 
in thin slices and fry a rich brown. Remove from spider, and 
brown a tablespoonful of flour, half teaspoonful of salt, a shake 
or two of pepper, and an onion. When all is nicely browned, put 
in the beans. Let them cook long enough to take up all the flour. 
Serve with cold boiled eggs on top. 

Shoestring potatoes are also very nice to serve with the egg 
as a garnish. 



Vegetables 115 



BACON AND MUSHROOMS 

Mrs. James Hibbard 

Wrap eight mushrooms in eight slices of bacon, cook until 
mushrooms are tender. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve. 

MUSHROOMS 

Mrs. J. H. Lett 

Wash, peel and throw into cold water to keep from turning 
dark. Drcdn and dip in egg that has been higly seasoned with 
salt and pepper. Toss in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard 
or butter. 



116 Memoranda 



Memoranda 117 



« 



•^ 



Do You Know! 



That Every BUFFALO and SHERIDAN Merchant sells 

San-^i-^DairSf Butter 

because he knows that there is quality and weight in every package? 
8an-i-Dairy Butter makes him many friends. 

If you are not aaiuainted with San-i-Dairy Butter, just order a pound from your 
grocer at our risk and you will then know why the demand for San-i-Dairy is so great. 

""Your Neighbor Uses Sarfi-'Dairt^ Butter'* 

Sheridan Creamery and Cold Storage Co. \ 



Ne\v York Store 

SHERIDAN. WYO. 




Wo alt ex 



SUITS AND COATS 




» 



L M. Clark Charles Hill 

Painters and Decorators 

Dutch Boy \^ite Lead Our Specialty 

WALL PAPER 

Alfred Peats and James Davis 



Artistic Paper Han$in$8 

BUFFALO - - - . WYOMING 



"pastry 



In baking shells for pies, .(it the crust into a pie pan, then 
butter bottom of another pan the same size, and insert. When 
crust is brown, remove upper pan, and you will have a perfect shell. 

In baking lemon pies, or pumpkin pies, if shell is partly baked, 
before putting in filling, the crust will not soak. 

— Mrs. C. A. Given. 

PIE JCRUST 

Mrs. Geo. Munkres 

2 cups flour I cup cold water 

1 Yi cups lard Pinch of salt 

Chop lard into flour with a knife, and work as little as 
possible. 

PIE CRUST 

Mrs. Chas. Fox 

8 ounces flour Yolk of 1 egg 

Va teaspoon salt Vi cup ice water 

6 ounces lard 

Cut ice-cold lard into flour with a silver knife until fine, beat 
the yolk of the egg very light, pour over one-half cup ice water. 
Mix in flour and lard, stirring with a knife. 

MINCE MEAT FOR PIES 

Mrs. Lois Bennett 

2 pounds boiled lean beef Yi pound citron 
chopped 2 pounds currants 

1 pound suet chopped or IVi pounds brown sugar 

ground 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon 

5 pounds apples 1 tablespoon cloves 

I pound whole raisins I tablespoonful allspice 

1 pound chopped raisins I nutmeg 

1 pound sultanas 1 quart cider 
I tablespoonful salt 

Mix all together, put on stove, heat thoroughly, and can. 



120 Pastry 



MEATLESS MINCE MEAT 

Mrs. N. M. Fitck. Gillette, Wyo. 

I pound raisins 2 pound apples 

I pound currants I teaspoon mixed spices 

I pound beef suet I tablespoon salt 

Yi pound candied orange peel I cup brandy or cider 

Vi pound citron 2 lemons 

Yi pound sugar I cup nut meats 

Chop all ingredients and pla<^ together in a large bowl or jar. 
Add sugar, salt, spices and lemra juice and grated rinds, 
very thoroughly and add brandy or cider. Cover closely. 



MINCE MEAT— (English Recipe) ( 



Mrs. H. S. Oliver 

2 pounds raisins 2 ounzes orange peel 

3 pounds currants 2 ounzes lemon peel 

1 Yi pounds lean beef chopped 2 ounzes citron 

very fine (used raw) I small nutmeg, grated 

3 pounds beef suet 2 quarts chopped apples 

2 pounds light brown sugar Rind two lemons 
Yi pint brandy Juice one lemon 

After chopping suet and beef, grating nutmeg, and cleaning 
fruit, mix well. Put into jars, using paraffin to make airtight. 
Should be made several weeks before using. 



APPLE PIE 

Mrs. E. B. Matker 

Take three large apples, or four small ones, chop fine, witfi 
half cup sugar, little nutmeg, and a tablespoon flour. Line gde 
tin with crust, add apples, with two tablespoonfuls of water, dot 
with butter and bake slowly. 



i 



Pastry 121 



APPLE LEMON PIE 

Mrs. N. C. Jensen • 

3 apples I tablespoon butter 

1 cup sugar Juice I lemon 
Yolks 3 eggs 

For one pie, use three good-sized apples, grating them. Add 
sugar, yolks of eggs, butter and lemon juice. Bake with one crust. 
Use whites of eggs for frosting. 

LEMON PIE 

Mrs. T. P. HiU 

2 lemons I tablespoonful cornstarch 
Vi pint water I tablespoon butter 

2 cups sugar Yolks six eggs 

Yi cup sweet milk 

Boil the grated rind of the lemons in the water, add the juice, 
and then pour the water into the following mixture: Sugar, milk, 
cornstarch, butter and yolks of eggs. Bake in paste, and beat 
whites for frosting the top. This makes two pies. * 

LEMON PIE 

Mrs. Carl Kube 

Juice of one lemon Butter size of egg 

Yi cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Juice Yi orange 3 eggs 

Ya cup granulated sugar 

Add to the juice of the lemon and orange, the boiling water, 
sugar and butter. Mix cornstarch with water, stirring this in. 
Beat well the yolks of die eggs, and white of one, and mix with 
Other ingredients. Put in double boiler to cook, stirring now and 
dkAky When thick, pour in a rich pie crust diat has been prev- 
iowy baked. Beat whites of two eggs until stifiF, then add pow- 
dered sugar gradually while beating. Flavor with lemon and 
spread on pie, and brown a delicate brown. 



122 



Pastry 



RHUBARB PIE 

Mrs. Geo. T. Astell 



I Yi cups sugar 

I tablespoon water 



Piece of butter 



Heat sugar and water. When boiling drop in rhubarb, previ- 
ously washed, peeled and cut into small pieces. Add butter and 
flour enough to thicken. Line pie tin with paste, (ill with fruit, 
cover with paste, and bake in a quick oven. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Mrs. Jas. Lowe 

2 eggs 2 cups of chopped rhubarb 

I cup of sugar !4 nutmeg 

I tablespoon flour 

After chopping rhubarb add the sugar, flour and the yolks 
of the eggs, a little pinch of salt and nutmeg. Mix thoroughly 
and bake with one crust. When done put the beaten whites with 
three tablespoons of sugar on top and brovm in oven. 



i 



SOUR CREAM PIE 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 



1 cup cream 
Yolks four eggs 
14 cup sugar 



1 cup raisins 

1 teaspoon cloves 



Put in double boiler the cream and yolks of eggs, beaten 
together with sugar. Then add raisins and cloves, and let it come 
to the boiling point. Pour in a rich pie crust that has been prev- 
iously baked. 



CREAM PIE 

Mrs. J. L. Lowe 

2 eggs 

Yi cup sugar 

1 Yi teaspoonfuls melted butter 

Use enough cream to fill up pie. Cook all together in oven. 



3 level tablespoons flour 
Cream 



^ 



>» 



Pastry 123 



DATE CREAM PIE 

Mrs. A. Tschirgi, Sheridan 

I pound dates , I cup water 

Vi cup sugar Whipped cream 

First make a rich under crust, and bake brovm. Stone <uid 
chop the dates, and cook with the sugar and water until tender.- 
When cool, put in the baked crust, cover the top with whipped 
cream and dot with jelly. This will make two pies. 

CUSTARD PIE 

3 eggs Vanilla or lemon 

Vi cup sugar Nutmeg 

1 Vi pints milk 

Beat eggs very lig^t, adding sugar, milk, vanilla or lemon, 
^nd sprinkle a little nutmeg on top. Bake in one crust. 

CARAMEL PIE ^ 

Mrs. B. H. McCarthy, GUlette 

1 pint water 1 -3 cup granulated sugar 

I cup brovm sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Yolks of 2 eggs 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Cook water, brown sugar, granulated sugar and butter to a 
thin syrup. Beat yolks of eggs, adding cornstarch. Cook all till 
thick. Flavor to taste. Fill already cooked crust and covet 
with beaten whites of eggs and brown. 

ORANGE PIE 

Mrs. WinterUng 

Yolks 4 eggs Butter size of egg 

Vi cup sugar Vi pint cream whipped 

1 orange or 2 

Beat yolks and sugar until light, add juice of orange and a 
little rind. Cook in double boiler until thick. Add butter. 
When cool, have whipped the cream, add half to pie, and the 
remainder place on top of pie. Put this mixture in crust already 
baked. 



i 



124 Pastry 



" ICD'S CARROT MARMALADE FOR PIES 

Mrs. F. G. S. Hesae 

Boil carrots quite soft. Press through a sieve. Boil equal 
parts of carrot and sugar until it looks firm ancf free from water. 
The rind and juice of a lemon may be boiled in it if desired. 

BANANA PIE 

Mrs. Bruce Taylor 

Make a banana pie with a lower crust only. Bake crust first 
Fiirwith slices bananas luid powdered sugar. The fruit will soften 
sufficiently in a few moments. Cover the top with "whipped 
cream, and serve at once. 

CHOCOLATE PK WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Mrs. Wilbur Williams 

4 tablespoons grated 1 cup sugar 

chocolate Pinch of salt 

IVi tablespoons cornstarch 1 tablespoon butter 

Add enough water to fill pie tin; cook twenty minutes. Stir 
constantly. Cover top with whipped cream. To omit eggs 
makes the pie much darker. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

Mrs. Esckrich 

4 teaspoonfuls grated 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

' chocolate 6 tablespoons sugar 

1 pint cold water Pinch of salt 
Yolks 2 eggs 

Stir the chocolate and cornstarch together in a little of the 
water until smooth. Add remaining water, then add sugar and 
eggs, a pinch of salt, and vanilla. Cook until thick in a dish set in 
hot water. 



Pastry 12t> 



RAISIN PIE 

Mrs. James Gallup 

1 teacup raisins I teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups boiling water I teaspoon cloves 
2 cups sugar Butter size walnut 
% cup sharp vinegar I beaten egg 

I teacup bread crumbs I teaspoon cornstarch 

Chop, stew and mash raisins; add boiling water and sugar; 
then add vinegar, cinnamon and cloves, and butter. When boil- 
ing hot, add beaten egg and cornstarch, dissolved. Stir in until 
thick. Then add bread crumbs, and you h^ve a delicious ftUing 
for two pies. Bake with two crusts. 



PUMPiQN PIE 

Mrs. M. T. Redman 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls Cream 
pumpkin Allspice 

5 eggs Sugar 

Cook pumpkin all day until it is dry and dark. For two pies 
use above ingredients, using enough good cream to fill two pie 
tins. Flavor with allspice and sweeten to suit taste. 



APPLE DUMPUNGS BAKED IN SYRUP 

Mrs. Robert Foote, Sr. 

1 cup butter 3 pints boiling water 

2 cups sugar Apples 

Use as many apples as you want dumplings. For eight large 
dumplings, use above ingredients. Let boil while making dump- 
lings. Then drop dumplings into syrup and bake in oven until 
apples are done. Take out, flavor syrup and use over dumplings. 



. 126 Pastry 



APPLE DUMPUNGS 

Mrs. Carrie Given 

1 quart flour I egg 

I tablespoon lard Milk 

I teaspoon bakingpowder Apples 

Mix flour, lard, bakingpowder and egg into a soft dough, 
using milk. Roll thin the size of saucer, fill with apple and lay in 
steamer so they will not touch. Steam for one hour. Serve 
warm. 

SWEET STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Mr«. J. L. Lowe 

3 eggs 1 tablespoon bakingpowder 

1 cup sugar I heaping tablespoon butter 

2 cups flour 

Beat butter s^d sugar together. Add eggs and beat. Stir in 
flour and bakingpowder well sifted together. This quantity will 
fill three tins. Put together with fresh fruit. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

Make very rich biscuit dough. Roll very thin, and rub top 
with melted butter. Fold over and bake in quick oven a delicate 
brown. Take out and separate sheets while hot. Have straw^ 
berries crushed and sweetened. Just before ready for serving* 
pour berries between layers, also on top. Whip cream very stiff, 
and place on top of each piece. 

CREAM PUFFS 

Mrs. R. H. Oliver 

1 cup hot waler 1 cup sifted flour 

Vi cup butter 4 eggs 

Put butter and water lOn stove. Let come to a boil. Stir in 
the dry flour and beat until smooth. Take from stove and break 
in eggs unbeaten. Drop from spoon on buttered pan and bake 
in hot oven one-half hour. 



Pastry 127 



CREAM PUFFS 

Mrs. L. R. Van Houten 

Vi pint hot water 1 Vi cups flour 

2-3 cup melted butter Whipped cream 

5 well-beaten eggs 

Put water and butter together, let come to a boil, then add 
flour and stir until mixture leaves sides of the pan. When this is 
cool, add the beaten eggs, and put by tablespoonfuls in hot but- 
tered pan, and bake in hot oven for one-half hour. This will 
make eighteen puffs. Fill with whipped cream when ready 
for use. 



CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 

Miss Mabel Sage 

I cup water Vi cup butter 

1 cup flour 4 eggs 

Boil water and butter and stir in flour. Remove from Are, 
and when cool, add eggs, one at a time. Have buttered pans 
ready and press dough through pastry sack and cut in two and a 
half inch lengths. When baked (in one-half hour), take out of 
oven and when cool, add chocolate cream filling made as follows : 

I pint cream Vanilla 

1 tablespoon flour Va cup sugar 
Yolks 4 eggs 

Ice the tops with chocolate icing, made as follows: 

2 cups sugar Whites 2 eggs 

Vi cup water 3 tablespoons grated 

Vanilla chocolate 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Beat whites of eggs 
stiff and add to S3rrup. Now add grated chocolate and vanilla. 



128 Pastry 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar. . .One pound 

Three cups of bar sugar One pound 

Three cups of unsifted flour One pound 

Three and one-half cups of sifted flour One pound 

Two cups of butter packed One pound 

Elight even tablespoons One gill 

Ten medium-sized eggs 0;ie pound 

A wine glass holds One-half gill 

Two tablespoons (well rounded) powdered 

sugar or flour One ounce 

One tablespoon (well rounded) of soft butter 

One ounce 



I 



Memoranda 129 



5^^^^ a 



Gamble Robinson 

SHERIDAN. WYO. 



WHOLESALES 

FRUITS 

AND 

VEGETABLES 



ROBERT PERIL, MANAGER 



d^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



(Takes. "Jcings anb TFiUings 



HARMONY CAKES 

A man went to order a wedding cake the other day. 

;Tm getting married/* he said. * and I want a cake/' 

**WeU, it*8 the latest thing/* said the shopgirl, '*to have wed- 
ding cakes in harmony with the bridegroom's calling or profession. 
Thus, a journalist has a spice cake, a musician an oat cake, an 
athlete a cup cake, a man who loafs on his friends, a sponge cake, 
and so forth, and so on. What is your calling, please?'* 
1 am a pianist 

**Then, of course," said the girl, **you*ll want a pound cake." 

— Cleveland Plaindealer. 



FROSTING 

1 cup sweet cream or Vi cup 2 cups sugar 
butter and Vi cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil cream and sugar until it hardens slightly in cold water. 
Add vanilla and beat until it is thick enough to spread on cake. 

CAKE ICING 

MiM Emily Colgate 

2 cups sugar 1 kitchen spoon com syrup 
Vi cup hot water Flavoring 

2 eggs 

Put sugar, syrup and water together and let boil until it 
threads. Beat whites of eggs stifiF. Pour over a little of S3rrup. 
beating all the time, then rest of syrup and beat until diick enough 
to spread. 

GOLDEN FROSTING 

Beat yolks of eggs and stir in powdered sugar until stiff 
enough to spread, not to run. Flavor with vanilla or wine. 



132 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 

PLAIN WHITE ICING 

Mrs. Carl Kube 

1 Vi cups granulated sugar Whites 2 eggs 
Hot water Flavoring 

Cover sugar with hot water, and boil until it threads. Beat 
whites of eggs stiff, and add a little of above syrup and beat again 
until smooth, after which add remainder of syrup and beat until 
cool. Use flavoring to taste. 

BROWN SUGAR ICING 

Mrs. M. L. Blake, Sheridan 

2 cups medium brown sugar Whites 2 eggs, beaten 
Pinch cream tartar I cup chopped raisins 
I cup cold water I cup chopped nuts 

Boil water and sugar, adding cream of tartar. Add boiling 
syrup to eggs, beating all the time. When cool, add raisins and 
nuts, and spread on cake. 

FILUNG FOR DEVIL'S FOOD 

Mrs. Eschrich 

I Vi cups C sugar Vi cup sweet cream 

I cup granulated sugar Vi cup grated chocolate 

I tablespoon butter Vi cup chopped raisins 

Vanilla Vi cup chopped nuts 

Cook C sugar, granulated sugar, butter, cream and chocolate \ 
until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water; whip with 
egg beater a short time; add raisins, nuts and flavoring. 

NUT FILUNG 

Merle Hanna, Skeridan 

I cup granulated sugar I cup chopped English 

I cup sour cream walnuts 

Cook sugar and cream until it forms a soft ball in cold vrater. 
Then add walnuts and beat until creamy. j 



i 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 133 



NUT AND RAISIN FILLING 

Mrs. Bennett 

I cup sugar I -3 cup chopped nuts 

6 tablespoons water Yi cup chopped raisins 

Boil sugar and water to a syrup.; add nuts and raisins and 
spread between layers. 

LADY BALTIMORE HLUNG (Owen Wister) 

Mrs. Fred Waegele 

3 cupfuls granulated sugar 1 cup chopped raisins 

I cup boiling water 1 cup chopped nuts 

Beaten whites 3 eggs 5 figs, ground 

Boil sugar and water until it threads; pour this over the stifBy 
beaten whites of eg:gs. While icing is still warm, add raisins, nuts 
and figs. 

HG HLUNG 

Mrs. Inez Kube 

I pound figs, chopped fine 1 cup water 

I cup brown sugar 

Cook until it is a paste. 

FIG HLUNG 

Mrs. John G. King 

I pound figs Whites 1 egg, beaten stiff 

I cup sugar Vanilla 

Vi cup water 

Cut figs in small pieces, and steam until tender. Boil sugar 
and water until it threads. Into this beat the white of the egg, 
beaten stiff. Beat until nearly stiff, then add figs and flavoring. 

HLUNG FOR ORANGE CAKE 

Mrs. L. R. Van Houten 

Juice and grated rind 1 Yi White 1 egg, unbeaten 

oranges Powdered sugar 

Beat in enough powdered sugar to make stiff enough for 



L_ 



134 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



ORANGE HLUNG FOR CAKE 

Mrs. W. J. Thorn 

Grated rind and juice of one V4 cup boiling water 

orange White I egg, unbeaten 

Juice one-half lemon Powdered sugar 
Yi cup granulated sugar 

Boil granulated sugar and water until it threads. Pour this 
slowly over the white of the egg, unbeaten; then add orange and 
lemon juice and thicken with powdered sugar until thick enough 
to put between cake. 

UNCOOKED CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Whites 2 eggs, unbeaten 2 squares chocolate 

Powdered sugar 

Stir into the unbeaten whites of eggs enough powdered sugar 
to make it nearly stifiF enough to put on cake. Melt chocolate 
over boiling water and add to frosting. If not stiff enough, add 
more sugar. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

Yi cup thick sweet cream Powdered sugar 

2 squares chocolate Vanilla 

Melt chocolate in cream, letting it come to a boil, stirring all 
the time. Take from stove and let cool. Beat in enough poW' 
dered sugar to spread nicely. Add vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Mrs. W. F. Williams 

1 square chocolate Powdered sugar 

1 -3 cup hot coffee 

Dissolve chocolate in coffee. Add powdered sugar to make 
it thick enough to spread on cake. Flavor with vanilla. 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 135 



CHOCOLATE CREAM FROSTING 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

3 cups sugar Melted chocolate 

I Vi cups water 

Boil sugar and water until it makes a round ball when 
dropped into cold water; take from stove and beat until it begins 
to whiten. Spread quickly over cake and cover with melted 
chocolate. 

CARAMEL FROSTING 

Mrs. Inez Kube 

1 1-3 cups granulated sugar 1-3 cup butter 
2-3 cup brown sugar 2-3 cup cream 

Boil thirteen minutes. Beat until thick enough to spread. 
Many have chopped nuts added. 

MOCHA FROSTING 

Mrs. F. E. R<^esler» Kansas City 

V4 cup butter I large cup powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons cocoa 2 tablespoons hot coffee 

Take two tablespoon fuls hot strong coffee, cream together 
and spread on cake. 

BURNT SUGAR HLUNG 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

2 cups of sugar (for large Va cup water 

cake) Whites of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons of burnt sugar 

Boil sugar until it threads, then add to well-beaten eggs. 

Burnt Sugar 

Put one cup of sugar in a pan. Place on stove until it melts, 
gets dark and smokes. Then add half cup of boiling water. Boil 
to a thick syrup. Put in glass jar and it will be ready when you 
wish to make your burnt sugar filling. j^ 



136 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



lTE caramel filling 

Mr«. Jolin G. King 

Vi cup maple sugar 1 14 cups sweet cream 

Vi cup white sugar Vanilla 

Vi cup grated chocolate 

Put all on stove and boil until it threads. Take off and stir 
until thick enough to put on cake. Flavor with vanilla. 

BROWN-SUGAR CAKE HLUNG 

Mrs. Wm. Atkinson 

1 Yi cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Yi cup sweet milk 

Let all boil until it forms a ball in water. Remove from 
stove and beat until creamy. Spread on cake. Let milk come 
to a boil first before adding sugar, to prevent curdling. 

LEMON JELLY FILUNG 

Mr«. J. L. Lowe 

Grated rind and juice of I 2 teaspoons butter 

lemon 1 tablespoonful cornstarch 

1 cup sugar ' Yi cup water 
1 egg 

Mix all together and cook in a double boiler. 

MARSHMALLOW HLUNG 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

3 packages marshmallows Whites of 2 eggs 

Va cup water 2 cups sugar 

Boil sugar with water until it threads. Beat whites of eggs 
stiff and add a little of the syrup and beat again. Repeat until 
all the syrup is used up. Have the marshmallows cut in pieces 
and melted. Add to the frosting while hot. Beat until ready for 
cake. Flavor with vanilla. 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 137 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN FILLING 

Mr«. J. C. Van Dyke 

2 cups sugar Beaten whites 2 eggs 

Vi cup boiling water Vi cup chopped nuts 

Vi cup figs Vi cup chopped raisins 
Cocoanut 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour over the beaten 
whites of eggs, and beat with an egg beater until cool ; add nuts, 
figs, and raisins. Add a layer of filling, then a layer of cocoanut, 
then pother layer of filling. 

COCOANUT FILUNG 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

^. 

I cup cocoanut Powdered sugar 

Vi cup thick sweet cream Vanilla 

Place cocoanut in oven until slightly brown. Beat enough 
powdered sugar into cream to make it nearly sti£F enough for cake. 
Then add cocoanut, cooled, and vanilla. 

Cakes 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

Mrs. A. W. Kennedy 

1 cup butter 2 teaspoons bakingpowdei 

2 cups sugar Whites of seven eggs 

I cup milk I pound Sultana raisins 

3 cups flour 1 pound dates 

1 -3 pound citron 1 pound blanched almonds 

1 cup pecans 1 ounce rose water 

Vi pound candied cherries 

» 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, flour and the whites of 
seven eggs beaten stiff. Use extra flour to dredge fruit Bake in 
slow oven. 



138 



Cakes, Idngs and Fillings 



PRESIDENTS FRUrr CAKE 

(Has been used in White House for years) 



1 pound crystallized diced 

pineapple 
1 pound blanched almonds, 

cut fine 
I pound shelled pecans, cut 

small 
1 teaspoon cinncunon 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 
Vi teaspoon allspice 

1 scant teaspoon cloves 

2 teaspoons of rose water 



Soak the almonds one night in the rose water and the fruit in 
the grape juice for the same length of time. Cream the butter 
and sugar and add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, then the spices, 
grape jelly and chocolate. Next add the beaten whites of the 
eggs, then part of the flour. Roll the fruit in the rest of the flour, 
mixing it into the cake in small quantities at a time. Add the nuts 
last. Bake or steam the cake four to six hours in small or large 
molds. If steamed, dry off in slow oven for one hour. 



1 pound butter 

1 pound sugar 

1 pound flour browned and 

sifted 
12 eggs beaten separately 
5 pounds seeded raisins 
I Vi pounds shredded citron 

peel 

1 glass jelly (grape) 

2 teaspoons melted chocolate 
I pound crystallized cherries 
1 glass of grape juice 



FRUIT CAKE 

Mrs. O. P. Hanna, Sheridan 



15 eggs 

1 Vi pounds butter 

I Vi pounds sugar 

1 Vi pounds flour 

2 pounds seeded raisins 

2 pounds cleaned currants 

1 pound ground citron 

2 pounds ground figs 



2 pounds blanched almonds, 

chopped 
Vi cup New Orleans molasses 
1 nutmeg grated 
I ounce ground cinnamon 
1 spoon vanilla 
1 teaspoon soda 
I quart brandy, or port wine 



Mix all ingredients, pouring brandy or wine over top of cake 
after it is baked. 



J 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



139 



ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE 

Mrs. Cha«. Rand 



Yi pound sugar 
Vz pound flour 



Vi pound butter 

5 eggs 

fi pound currants 

Beat butter to a cream. Add sugar, then eggs beaten in one 
by one ; then add flour and currants. Bake two hours. 

FRUIT CAKE 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 



12 eggs 

1 pound butter 

1 pound sugar 

3 pounds flour 

1 tablespoon allspice 

1 teaspoon cloves 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 
2 nutmegs 

1 pound candied fruit 
Vi pound citron 

2 pounds raisins 

Steep spices with molasses 



2 wineglasses wine 

2 wineglasses brandy 

I coffeecup molasses 

1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon bakingpowder 

1 pound nuts 

1 pound figs 

1 pound dates 

Vi pound orange or lemon peel 

2 pounds currants 

twenty minutes. 



BLACK CAKE 

Mrs. Bert Thorn, Chicago 



1 Yi pounds flour 

I pound granulated sugar 

1 pound butter 
1 3 whole eggs 

2 pounds raisins 
1 pound currants 

1 pound citron or candied 

fruit 
1 pound figs 



t pound almonds 

1 wine glass brandy 

2 wine glasses sherry 
1 nutmeg 

1 teaspoon soda 

I teaspoon cinnamon 

I teaspoon mace 

I teaspoon cloves 

1 small teacup apple vinegar 



Prepare fruit the day before, that the currants may be dry; 
flour the fruit well before putting in cake; add vinegar and soda 
just before putting in oven. Bake four hours. 



/ 






140 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



VIRGINIA FRUIT CAKE 

Mrs. J. M. Lobban, Sheridan 

I pound flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 pound sugar 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 pound butter 1 nutmeg 

1 2 eggs 1 wineglass brandy 

3 pounds raisins 1 wineglass rose water 

I pound currants I teacup molasses 

1 pound citron Vi pound chopped English 

1 teaspoon mace -walnuts 

1 teaspoon cloves 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

Bake four hours in a slow oven. 
v^ FRUIT CAKE 

Mrs. Bodan 



_. ^ 5 eggsy Vi pound blanched almonds 

^ \J2 cups brown sUgar 4 cups flour 

I cup black molasses 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 



v^ ^^ 1 cup butter 1 teaspoon allspice 

"• *-:;^ -^1^^ 1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon cinpamon 

z' "d.^l pound raisins I teaspoon cloves 

"y sjl pound currants 1 nutmeg 

^l^ ^^ ,>rJ4 pound citron Vi pound candied cherries 



^ 



•*^^ 



SPICE CAKE 

Mrs. W. J. Thorn 

2 cups sugar 1 cup currants 

1 cup butter 1 cupful nuts 

5 eggs Vi cup shredded citron or 

1 cup sour milk sliced figs 

2 level teaspoons soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
4 cups flour I teaspoon allspice 

I teaspoon lemon juice or 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

extract 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cupful raisins 

Rub butter and sugar together. Add eggs, well beaten, with- 
out separating. Dissolve soda in sour milk and add. Bake m 
two loaves in moderate oven about one hour. 



I 
I 

i 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



141 



POTATO CAKE 

Mrs. Mary Wakeman, Gillette 



4 eggs 

1 cup butter 

2 cups sugar 

1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup mashed potatoes 

1 teaspoon cloves 

2 teaspoons bakingpowder 



2 cups flour 

1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup raisins 

1 square chocolate 

1 teaspoon cinnsmion 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 



1 cup bread sponge 
1 cup sugar 
Vi cup melted butter 
• egg 

1 cup sultanas 

2 cups flour 



SCOTCH CAKE 

^ Mrs. M. F. Fish 



1 pound flour 
1 cup sugar 
Va pound butter 



1 teaspoon cinnsmion 
Vi teaspoon cloves 
Vi teaspoon nutmeg 
Vi cup boiling water 
1 teaspoon soda 



POUND CAKE 

Mrs. J. H. Saga 

10 

Lemon extract 



Cream butter and sugar, adding eggs one at a time; then 
add flour and a little lemon. 



1 pound sugar 
1 pound flour 
K poimd butter 



POUND CAKE 

Mrs. E. B. Mdther 



10 large eggs 

or 12 small ones 
2 tablespoons brandy 



Beat butter and sugar one-half hour, then add eggs two or 
three at a time, unbeaten, and a part of the flour, until you have 
used all the flour and eggs ; then add brandy. Pour more brandy 
over cake when taken from the oven. 



142 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 

OUNCE CAKE 

Mrs. Robefft Foote, Sr. 

1 eggs I 7 ounces flour 

1 5 ounces butter !4 pound citron shaved 

f 6 ounces sugar Flavoring to taste 

Beat eggs, yolks and whites separately. Bake one and one* 
half hours. 

SODA CAKE 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 

2 cups sugar Vi teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 1 nutmeg 

1 cup sweet milk 3 cups flour 



5 eggs 



GOLD CAKE 



^ cup butter 2 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Yolks of 11 or 12 eggs 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

I cup milk 

Cream butter and sugar; add yolks, and beat for five minutes; 
then add milk and flour, a little of each at a time until all is used, 
beating vigorously all the time ; add bakingpowder and vanilla. 
Bake in a long shallow pan, and cover with chocolate frosting. 

SOUR CREIdit CAKE 

Miss Jessie M. HoffcMgl*** Lincoln, Neb. 

4 

I cup sour cream " I pinch salt 

1 cup sugar I fi cups flour 

I egg I teaspoon vanilla 

Cream sour cream and sugar and add egg, salt and vanilla. 
Then beat in flour and bake. 



i 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 143 



SOUR CREAM CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup sour cream 

1 egg Vi teaspoon soda 

2 cups flour Flavoring 

Use while real fredi with whipped cream filling. 



DARK CAKE 

Mi«« Winifred Hughes 

1 cup sugar Vi cup plum jelly beaten with 

1 cup sour cream little hot water 

1 teaspoon soda 3 cups flour 

6 eggs, well beaten 

MOTHER'S CUP CAKE 

Mrs. W. J. Thorn 

Vi cup butter I teaspoon lemon extract 

1 cup sugar I teaspoon bakingpowder 

3 eggs, beaten without separ- IVi cups flour 

* ating 1 cup raisins, seeded and cut 
^cup sweet milk 

CHOCOLATE SPICE CAKE 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

1 cup sugar Vi cup hot water 

^ cup butter 2 squares melted chocolate 

2 eggs, whole Yi teaspoon cinncunon 
2 cups flour Vi teaspoon cloves 

Vi cup sour milk Vi teaspoon bakingpowder 

Vi teaspoon soda 

Bake in sheet or two layers, and put together with an icing 
made of vanilla, sweet cream, and enough pulverized sugar to 
spread. Decorate with halved pecan nut meats. 



144 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



TE RAISIN CAKE 



Mrs. M. E. Frame 



1 cup butter 

1 Vi cups sugar 

Va cup milk 

5 cgS yolks 

!4 teaspoon salt 

I cup grated chocolate 



2 tablespoons sherry 

or brandy 
Vi teaspoon cinnamon 
2 cups seeded raisins 
3^2 cups flotur 
Whites of 5 eggs 



I 



Cream butter; add sugar gradually, then chocolate, raisins, 
cinnamon, bakingpowder and salt sifted with flour, then milk. 
Beat well; add. flavoring and well-beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
in deep buttered pans forty minutes. 



MARBLE CAKE 

Mrs. May Barton, Sundance, Wyo. 



Whit« Part: 



1 cup white sugar 

1 cup sour cream 

2 cups flour 



Vi teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
4 egg whites 



Mix sugar, cream, salt, vanilla and flour. Add whites of 
well beaten. 



Dark Part: 

1 cup sour cream 
I cup brown sugar 
4 egg yolks 
3 tablespoons cocoa 
Vi teaspoon salt 



1 level teaspoon soda 
Vi cup chopped raisins 

2 cups flour 
Vi teaspoon cinncunon, allspice 

and nutmeg 

Mix sugar and yolks of eggs together. Add cream, stir in 
flour and raisins at the same. time. Then spice and cocoa and 
soda in a little hot water. Mix all well together and bake in loaf 
cake pan. Drop white and dark parts alternately into pan. Bake 
with a slow fire. 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 145 

YELLOW LOAF CAKE 

Mrs. Geo. B. Go£F 

lYz cups Swan's Down flour 2-3 cups butter 

1 Vi rounding teaspoons bak- Yolks 8 eggs 

ingpowder 2-3 cup cold water 

I }A cups granulated sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Sift flour, then measure, add bakingpowder, and sift three 
times. Sift sugar, then measure. Cream butter and sugar thor- 
oughly. Beat yolks until thick and lemon color, add these to but- 
ter and sugar, and stir thoroughly. Add water and flour alti/er- 
nately, flavor, and stir very hard. Bake forty or sixty minutes in 
an ungreased mold, in slow oven at first, then increase heat and 
brown. 

WHITE CAKE 

Mrs. Geo. B. Goif 

1 V4 cups sugar 3 level teaspoons Calumet 

Va cup butter bstkingpowder 

I cup sweet milk 1 level teaspoon salt 

3 cups Swan's Down flour Whites of 4 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar. Add milk, then the flour, baking* 
powder and salt, sifted thoroughly. Add whites of eggs last, 
stirring gently. Use any flavoring to suit taste. 

WHITE CAKE 

Mrs. Winterling, Sheridan 

1 cup butter 3 cups pastry flour 

2 cups sugar Whites of 6 eggs 

1 cup sweet milk 1 !4 teaspoons bakingpowder 

Flavoring to taste 

Cream butter and sugar, then add milk and flour, and last die 
whites of eggs beaten sti£F. 



146 Cakes, Iciiigs and FOlixigs 

 - 

WHITE LAYER CAKE 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

I Vi cups bar sugar Vi teaspoon rose or almond 

Yi cup crisco extract 

Rnch of salt 3 level teaspoons baking- 

3 cups Swan's Down flour powder 

Whites of 6 eggs fi cup cold water 

WHITE CAKE 

Mrs. E. B. Matter 

1 Vi cups sugar 2 Yz cups pastry flour 

Whites 6 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Yi cup butter 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 
1 cup water 

Cream butter and sugar. Add water widi vanilla; then add 
the flour, with bakingpowder, sifted togedier. Lastly, add the 
whites of eggs, beaten very stiff. Beat all togedier. 

WELLESLEY FUDGE CAKE 

Miss Ella A. Williams 

2-3 cup butter 2 egg yolks 

1 cup sugar 2Yi cups sifted flour 

14 cup melted chocolate 1 rounding teaspoon baking* 

(melted over hot water) powder 

1 cup milk Whites of 2 eggs, well beaten 

Mix cake in order given, bake in a loaf and cover with icing. 
Icing: 

1 tablespoon butter !4 cup milk • 

Yi cup chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 Ya cups sugar 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Add butter, sugar and milk 
and cook until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Let stand a few 
minutes until cooled a little, then add vanilla and beat totil of 
consistency to spread. 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 147 



DEVIL'S CAKE 

Mrs. Cha«. 6. Duffy 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup cold water 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 Vi cups chocolate I cup boiling water 
Yolks 2 eggs 3 cups flour 

2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

Cream butter and sugar. Cook egg yolks, chocolate and 
cup cold water until about the consistency of thick cream, or until 
chocolate is thoroughly melted, and add while hot. Then add 
soda, dissolved in cup of boiling water, and stir in flour and bak- 
ingpowder. Bake in rather hot oven. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

Mrs. T. J. Gatchell 

Wi cups white sugar Vi cup grated chocolate 

Vi cup butter or cottolene dissolved in Vi cup hot water 

3 eggs 2Vi cups flour (scant) 
Vi cup sour cream 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon soda 

Bake in a dripping pan, and spread over it when cool : 

3 tablespoons thick sweet 1 cup chopped nuts 

cream Vanilla 

Powdered sugar 

Use enough powdered sugar to make of the right consistency 
to spread. 

REBELUON OR DRIED-APPLE CAKE 

Mrs. B. S. Langworthy 

2 cups dried apples 1 cup butter 

2 cups molasses 1 cup sweet milk 

2 eggs Spices 

2 heaping teaspoons soda Flour 

Soak apples over night. In morning drain off water and 
chop apples fine. Add molasses, and simmer on back of stove 
two hours. Let cool, and add eggs, soda, butter, sweet milk and 
all kinds of spices, and flour enough to make like soft gingerbread. 



148 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 

DEUCATE CAKE 

Mra. Hulda E. Williama 

Vi cup butter 1 teaspoon cream tartar 

2 cups sugar Vi teaspoon soda 
% cup sweet milk Whites 6 eggs 

3 cups flour Lemon extract 

Crecun butter and sugar and add milk and flour, cream tartar 
and soda. Last add whites of eggs. 

Mapk Cream FHIiiig 

2 cups maple syrup 1 small cup nuts 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Boil maple syrup until a soft ball forms in cold water. Re- 
move from fire and stir into the beaten whites of two eggs. Beat 
vigorously until cold, dien add nuts if desired. 



ALMOND CREAM CAKE 

Mrs. R. M. Kennedy 

Whites 10 eggs 1 teaspoon cream tartar 

1 Vi gobletfuls sugar (heaping) 

1 gobletful flour 

Sift flour and cream of tartar, dien add flour and sift all to- 
gedier; then stir in beaten eggs. 

Filling: 

1 pint sweet cream 1 tablespoon cornstarch 
Yolks 3 eggs dissolved in little milk 

2 tablespoons pulverized Vi cup chopped almonds 
sugar 

Beat eggs, sugar and cornstarch together, and add to 
When nearly cold add chopped almonds. 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings ^ 149 



BREAD DOUGH CAKE 

Mrs. Elwood Anderson, Gillette, Wyoming 

I cup bread sponge I teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sus^ 2 teaspoons cocoa 

I -3 cup lard or butter 14 teaspoon cloves 

I Vi cups flour 1 cup raising 

One teaspoon soda dissolved in half cup warm water. Mix 
the above all together. Let rise. Bake diree-quarters of an 
hour. Nuts may be added. ^ 



BREAD SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. Alice Scott 

2 cups sugar, white or brown 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup butter or butter and I teaspoon cloves 
lard 2 teaspoons cinncunoh 

2 eggs I teaspoon nutmeg 
2 cups bread sponge 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups raisins cooked and 1 teaspoon vanilla 

cooled I teaspoon cocoa 

2 level teaspoons soda 

Flour to make somewhat stiffer dian odier cake. Dissolve 
the soda in half cup of liquor from the raisins. Mix all together. 
Bake at once in a very slow oven one hour. 



FAIRY SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. J. Shaughnessy, Rozet, Wyo. 

Juice and rind of Vx lemon Vi cup warm water 

3 eggs IVi level teaspoons 
1 Vi cups sugar powder 

I Vi cups flour Vi teaspoon salt 

Separate the eggs. Add sugar to yolks and beat Add salt 
and lemon juice and beat Add water and flour and beat, dien 
fold in die whites. Bake in moderate oven. 



A I 



150 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. Etcliriclk 

6 eggs 2 cups granulated sugar 

Vz cup boiling water 

Save whites of two eggs (or frosting. Beat whites and yolks 
separately; add to the yolks the boiling water, and beat; then 
add sugar and beat; then the whites of the eggs, and lastly die 
flour. Bake in shallow pan and cover with chocolate icing. Re- | 
move cover and finish baking. 

DEUCIOUS SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. Jokn King 

1 Vz cups sugar Vz cup boiling water 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon bakingpowder 

3 well-beaten eggs Lemon extract 

Beat sugar and eggs to a cream, add flour a little at a time, 
and lastly the boiling water. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. M. E. Frame 

!4 cup chocolate powder 2 tablespoons hot water 

Yolks 3 eggs % teaspoon salt 

Vi cup sugar !4 cup pastry flour 

Whites 3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat yolks until lemon colored and thick; add sugar and con* 
tinue beating; mix chocolate with water and add to sugar mixture. 
Cut and fold in flour, salt and beaten whites. Flavor, and bake 
in buttered pan in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. Fred W. Oswald 

6 eggs 1 cup of sugar 

1 cup flour « 

Sift flour and sugar each three times. Beat whuft stiff. 
Add yolks and sugar and beat for ten minutes. Fold m flour. 
Grease pan and flour well. Bake for forty minutes. The icing for 
the top to be flavored with lemon. 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 151 



SPONGE JELLY ROLL 

Mrs. A. W. Kennedy 

6 eggs beaten well 1 teaspoon bakingpowder 

I cup of sugar Yz cup boiling water 

I cup flour 

Bake in dripping pan, spread with tart jelly, and roll while 
warm. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

6 eggs 1 cup flour 

% cup boiling water Vi teaspoon bakingpowder 

I cup of sugar 

Beat eggs separately. To the beaten yolks add the boiling 
water, sugar, the stiffly beaten whites, flour and bakingpowder. 
Flavor with vanilla. Spread very thin in a large pan previously 
buttered and floured. Bake in rather hot oven. Spread on jelly 
and roll while warm. 

COCOA ROLL 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Use recipe above and spread on cake a mixture made of a 
half cup of cocoa, one cup powdered sugar and a fourth of a cup 
of warm water. 

NUT SQUARES 

Mrs. Leggett 

1 Vi cups sugar 1 Vz cups flour 

Vi cup butter I teaspoon bakingpowder 

Yolks 4 well-beaten eggs Whites 4 eggs 

Vz cup water Vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of well-beaten eggs, and 
water. Sift flour and bakingpowder twice; add to first ingredi- 
ents and beat five minutes; fold in the stiffly beaten whites, and 
flavor with vanilla. Bake in two thin sheets. When done, spread 
one with orange filling, lay on second layer and cover top with a 
yellow frosting; cut in squares and place an English walnut 
on each. 



i53 Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



COFFEE CAKE 

Mrs. Bruce Taylor 

2 cups butter I pound raisins 

3 cups sugar I pound currants 
I cup molasses Vi pound citron 
f cup very strong coffee Vi pound figs 
I cup of cream or sweet milk 5 cups browned flour 
Yolks 8 eggs (after sifting) 
3 teaspoons bakingpowder 

Put flour in oven and brown a rich brown, being careful not 
to bum. When cool, sift in three teaspoons of bakingpoMrder and 
a little salt. Flour fruit and beat well and bake four or five hours. 

ANGEL FOOD 

Mrs. N. C. Jensen 

j^ 2 cups pulverized sugar . 1 !4 tesispoonfuls cream tartar 

11-3 cups flour Whites 16 eggs 

/ 

ANGEL FOOD 

Mrs. W. M. Underwood, Gillette 

1 cup sifted flour I Vi cups granulated sugar 

I level teaspoon cream tartar Whites 1 1 eggs 
Pinch of salt 1 teaspoon flavoring 

!%ft flour and cream of tartar five times. Add sugar, having 
silted it five times. Then sift flour, cream of tartar and sugar 
together three times. Beat whites of eggs thoroughly with piiich 
of salt< Add flour and sugar slowly, fold in, but do not stir. 
Add flavoring. Bake in ~ ^moderate oven forty-five minutes. 
Do not grease. ' - b 

ANGEL FOOD 

Mrs. C. M. Walters 

1 2 eggs Wi tiimblers sugar 

t tumb|^ Swan*s Down Flour 1 teaspoon cream tartar 

Sift fl«ur before measuring. Fold in sugar. Then floilr. 
Place in pan with cover hot tight. Let cook slowly half hour. 

Y 



/■ 



Cakes, Icings and Fillings 



15S 



I Vi cups sugar 
Vi cup butter 



BROWN STONE CAKE 

- Mrs. Grant T. StaU 



O 



• I 



2 squares Baker's chocolate 
4 eggs 



1 cup sweet milk 

2 teaspoonsn>akingpow<ler 
2 cups flour 
Pinch of salt 

Mix butter and sugar; add melted chocolate, and then milk 
and beaten yolks. Sift flour and bakingpowder five times. Add 
part of flour; then alternately rest of flour and beaten whites of 
eggs. Bake in two layers in moderate oven. 

Filling: 

1 cup sugar 6 tablespoons boiling water 

I tablespo^^n Karo syrup White of egg 

Melted chocolate ' Chopped nuts o 

Boil sugar, syrup and boiling water until it threads. Pour 
over beaten white of egg. Add melted chocolate and chopped 
nuts. 



HICKORY NUT CAKE ' 

Mrs. E. H. Smockt Lo's Angeles 



4Vz cups flour 
;*^teasp^n en 
4 or 5 Kps nut meats 
1 teaspoon vanilla 



c^teaspo^n cream tartar 



Va cup butter 
2 cups powdered' sugar 
I wineglass milk or wine 
Beaten whites 8 eggs 
t teaspoon soda 

Rub butter and sugar to a creani, gradually beat in milk, then 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, th^ the flour, with cream of tar- 
tar. Dissolve soda in the milk an(^ add lastly the nut meats and 
vanilla. 



/ 



t ■- ' 



J 



154 



Memoraiida 



/ 



L "^ 



.V 



• y 



> 



t 



-> 



t- 






T . . ^ 



V • 



4 -r 



-- • — f,M- 



J- ^ 



•v 



• J . ^« 



« 



v \ 



• *. » 



/ :> ' 



* * * 



I 



^^^ 



/ » 

\ 



» 9 



Memoranda 



155 



\ 



/ 



^ * 



t * 



« • 



-. • r 



• > 



1 

\ 






» t 






Vrf* - 



t I 



tl' 



<■• 



/ - 



/ .' I 









/-.• 



I 



if-* 






*»"«♦»' 



/• 












.f^ 



1 



/« /' •'• 



/ 



/ 



A 



mtm^^^amm ut i nhh 



• t 



^ 



jJ': ,: i i-' ,( c .•<2-^Sj-V, 



, Hot -Blast Ranges 

SURE-SHOT 

Features that Ml off 
itchen failures and 
away the drudgery. 

o make every Recipe 
book a rousing success^ 

ough guarantee against 
empered wife. 



Buffalo HandwareCo. 

BUFFALO, WYO. 



Cookies, 2)oug^ut5, TEtc^ 



COOKIES 

Mrs. M. T. Redman 



2 cups brown sugar 

3 cups of flour 

I cup melted butter 

4 tablespoons warm water 

Dissolve soda in warm water. 



I cup of broken walnuts 
Small teaspoon soda 

Mix all together and drop o£F 



teaspoon onto buttered pan and bake. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

Mrs. Alice Alcott, Gillette 



2 eggs 

2 cups sour milk 



2 cups sugar 

I cup butter or lard 

1 teaspoon soda 

Mix sugar and butter and add eggs. Put soda in milk and 
add a little salt Flour to make a soft dough. 

NUT COOKIES 

Mrs. A. W. Kennedy 

2 cups sugar 4 eggs beaten separately 
2 cups butter Vi cup cold water 

I cup nut meats 1 package seeded raisins 

I teaspoon cinnamon 3 cups flour 

Mix all together and drop from spoon on buttered pan. 
Bake in moderate oven. 



sr 



I cup sugar ^■ 

\ cup sorghum molasses 

I cup sour milk 

I cup lard and butter 

I tablespoon ginger 

Cut rather thick. 



SORGP' « COOKIES 

Mrs. Lv 



^rs, Springfield, ill. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 



• •» 



1 heaping teaspoon soda, 

beaten into the molasses 
Pinch of salt 
Flour for soft dough 



158 Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 



FRUIT COOKIES 

Mrs. W. C. Copps 

1 quart flour Pinch of salt 

2 level teaspoons baking- 2-3 cup sugar 
powder Buttermilk 

2-3 cup butter or lard Raisins 

I level teaspoon soda Vi cup sugar 

Mix flour, bakingpowder, butter, soda, salt, and two-thirds 
cup sugar, using enou^ buttermilk to make rather a stiff dough; 
roll out in thin sheet one-half inch thick; wash raisins and lay on 
one-half sheet, spread on one-half cup sugar, turn the odier half 
over, and roll as thin as desired; cut in strips with a knife 
and bake. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

Mrs. C. N. Walters 

1 cup sugar A little salt 

2 cups molasses 1 Vi cups warm water 
1 cup lard or butter 3 teaspoons ginger 

1 egg 4 teaspoons soda 

Put soda in water, add flour till very thick, and mix the day 
before baking, keeping it in a cool place. 

MARTHAS 

Mrs. J. H. Lett 

1 cup white sugar >4-vyP ®^^' milk 

1 cup brown sugar \1AV iDoon soda dissolved in 
Vi cup lard . \_ lespoon hot water 

Vi cup butter 3^4 ctSps flour 

2 eggs !4 teaspoon cloves 

Yi teaspoon grated nutmeg 1 cup chopped raisins 

Vi teaspoon vanilla 1 cup chopped nuts 

Drop from spoon onto buttered tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



.Vv 



Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc 159 

^^^■■^— — —   I 11 I  <pM  I ^^^^^ III 11 . I I  I I I  — — >— — ^W^— ■— I I IMI   .  III ■■■■■» -   

PLAIN COOKIES 

Mrs. W. H. HoUana 

1 cup cottolene 2 cups granulated sugar 

I cup sour milk (or Vi cup 3 eggs 

cream and Yi cup sour milk 1 even teaspoon soda 

and Yi cup cottolene) Flour 

Use flour enough for soft dough. Roll thin, and spread widi 
beaten egg and sifted sugar. 

COOKIES 

Mrs. Bodan 

1 cup sour cream 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups sugar I cup butter 

2 eggs Flour for soft dough 

SUGAR COOKIES 

Mrs. Jokn Sage 

I cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

I cup butter Little nutmeg 

2-3 cup sour cream Flour enough to make soft 

1 egg dous^ 

BOSTON FRUIT COOKIES 

Mrs. W. J. Tlioin 

I cup butter «8. \ Pinch of salt 

I Yi cups granulated sr ** 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 eggs 1 cup chopped nuts 
I teaspoon soda dissolved in Yi cup raisins 

3 tablespoons sweet cream Yi cup currants 
3 cups flour 

Drop from spoon on buttered pan and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



160 Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 



RICH COOKIES 

Mrs. Jamas Hibbard 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs, beaten lig^t 

1 cup butter, beaten light Flour 

Mix sugar, butter and eggs, and stir in enough flour to 
roll thin. 

HERMIT COOKIES 

Mrs. Boudn 

Ya cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 scant cups brown sugar Vi teaspoon cloves 

2 eggs A little grated nutmeg 

4 tablespoons sour cream or Vi teaspoon extract lemon 

milk 3i4 cups flour 

Vi tejispoon soda 1 cup chopped raisins 

DROP COOKIES 

Merla Hanna, Sheridan 

1 Vi cups sugar 3 eggs 

1 cup butter 1 Vi cups raisins 

Vi teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 cup chopped nuts 

2 tablespoons milk 2 Vi cups flour 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat eggs separately and add 
yolks. Dissolve soda in milk, then add raisins, nuts and flour 
stirred in alternately with the whites of eggs. Drop from spoon 
in quantities about the size of English walnut and bake. 



oc 



NEW BRUNSWICK COOKIE"^ { 



Mrs. Mabel Balden 

1 Vi cups brown sugar 1 teaspocp soda 

I cup butter I teaspoon allspice 

1 cup spur milk Flour for soft dough 

Roll thin. ^ \y 



\ 



\ 



■N 



< 



Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 161 

HLLED COOKIES 

Mrs. Ckas. Pinney 

1 cup butter 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 eggs Flour to make soft dough 
1 cup sweet cream 

Filling: 

Vi cup dates I cup nut meats 

Vi cup figs Vi cup brown sugar 

Vi cup raisins Vi cup water 

Put nuts and fruit through food chopper; add sugar and 
water, and cook a few minutes. Cut round cookies, put a spoon- 
ful of fruit mixture on top and lay another cookie over it, and 
press edges together and bake. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

Mrs. T. J. Gatchell 

1 cup cottolene (or other 2 cups rolled oats 

shortening) 2 generous cups flour 

I Vi cups sugar A little salt 

3 eggs Heaping teaspoon ci.nnainon 
Vk cup sour milk I cup currants 

1 teaspoon soda I cup chopped nuts 

Dissolve soda in sour milk. Drop by spoonful on greased 
tins and bake in moderate oven. 

ROLLED OATS COOKIES 

^ ^ ^ A Mrs. W. J. Thorn ^ 

214 cups flo&r* ^,? 2 eggs 

2 cups rollec --^ 2 tablespoons milk 

1 cup but.er ,. ^ ^2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

1 cup sugar '^"f ^ ^A little salt 

Mix flour yk^^ '^/ylled oats, '^ just as they come from box. 
Make a hole i? liv^ - 'i^ure, put ifip butter, sugar, eggs, milk, bak- 
ingpowder, an hfetfe |klt. Mix^ roll thin, bake quickly. 



163 Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 



FILLED 

Mrt. Geo. P. June 

V/i cup8 flour I cupful sugar 

3 level teaspoonfuls baking- 2 eggs 

po¥rcler Yi cup of sweet milk 

Yi cupful butter 

Roll out quite thin and cut with round cookie cutter* Put a 
teaspoonful of cooked raisin filling on top of one round, and cover 
with another round, pinch edges together, and bake in a moderate 
oven until a lis^t brown. 

Filling: 

2 cupfuls seeded raisins 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 cupful nuts i cup water 

1 cupful sugar 

Chop raisins and nuts, adding sugar and flour; then add 
nearly a cup of water and cook until thick. 

COLLEGE CRISPS 

Mrt. W. J. Thorn 

2Yi cups rolled oats 1 teaspoon bakingpowder 

Va cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon melted butter A little salt 

Beat eggs, add salt and sugar. Mix bakingpowder with oats, 
and stir all together. Drop from teaspoon, flatten and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

I egg Yi teaspoon soda dissolved y 

1 cup brown sugar Yi cup sour milk 

Yi cup butter 1 Yi cups flour 

!4 cake chocolate Yi cup walnuts 

Yi cup raisins Vanilla 

Frosting: 

Yi cup milk 2 ounces chocolate 

1 cup sugar Vanilla 



Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 163 

COCOANUT WAFERS 

Mrs. R. M. Kennedy 

Yolks 5 eggs I teaspoon soda 

Vi cup butter Vi teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar Cocoanut 

1 cup sour cream Flour 

Cream butter and sugar; add the well-beaten eggs, and beat 
until light; then sour cream and salt; dissolve soda in a little 
warm water and add to other ingredients; flavor with vanilla* 
and flour enough to make as soft a dous^ as you can handle. 
Sprinkle widi cocoanut and bake in a quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE AND ORANGE JUMBLES 

Mrs. W. J. Tkom 

1 cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar Vi cup grated chocolate 
4 eggs Rind and juice 1 orange 
2 full teaspoonsbakingpowder 

Make dough of butter, sugar, eggs, bakingpowder and flour. 
Divide dough into two parts. To one, add the grated chocolate; 
to the other, add the rind and juice of the orange, and to this part 
more flour must be added. Mix soft and roll thin. 

COCOANUT VaSSES 

Mrs. Inez Kube 

Whites 2 eggs 3 tablespoons shredded 

Yi cup fine granulated sugar cocoanut 
!4 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff, and add gradually, while beat- 
ing, the sugar; continue beating until mixture will hold its shape, 
aind add flavoring and cocoanut. Shape with tablespoon or pastry 
bag, and place in pan covered with buttered paper. Bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 



164 Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 



LADY FINGERS 

Mrs. Inez Kube * ^ ^ 

Whites 3 eggs 1-3 cup flour 

1 -3 cup powdered sugar Vb teaspoon salt . 

Yolks 2 eggs !4 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites until sti£F and dry, and add sugar gradually, and 
continue beating. Then add yolks of eggs, beaten until thick, 
and flavoring. Cut and (old in flour mixed and sifted with salt. 
Shape four and one-half inches long and one inch wide on a tin 
sheet^covered with unbuttered paper, using a pastry bag aind tube. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake eight minutes in moderate 
oven. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs. Henry LoUer 

t quart bread sponge 1 cup sugar 

1 pint milk Pinch of salt 
Vz cup butter 2 eggs 

Mix with flour stiff enough to handle, and set to rise. When 
light, cut out, let rise, and fry in boiling lard. Sprinkle with sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs. J. L. Campbell 

2 eggs Vi teaspoon salt 

t cup sugar Nutmeg to flavor 

I cup sour milk Flour enough to make a soft 

1 level teaspoon soda dough 

1 tablespoon hot lard 

Roll this and fry quickly in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs. Geo. B. Goff 

2 eggs I teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons bakingpov^der 

1 tablespoon butter or lard A little nutmeg 

1 cup sweet milk Flour to make stiff 
Fry in hot lard. 



Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 165 



DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs. John King 

1 Vz cups sugar 1 cup buttermilk 

Butter size of walnut Vi nutmeg 

3 well-beaten eggs 1 scant teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon vanilla Flour enough to roll out ^ 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs. H. C. Jones 

2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

4 tablespoons melted butter 2 cups milk 

and lard, half and half 2 heaping teaspoons baking- 

1 good teaspoon salt powder 

Flavor nutmeg Flour 

Stir eggs in sugar and shortening and add other ingredients. 
Use flour enough to handle, roll out, cut and shape and fry. Will 
make six dozen. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs. A. W. Kennedy 

1 Vi cups sugar 1 cup mashed potatoes while 

1 cup sweet milk warm 

4 cups flour 4 level teaspoons baking- 

Vi nutmeg powder 

2 eggs Butter size of a walnut 

Cream sugar and butter and add eggs, milk, mashed potato, 
flour, bakingpowder and nutmeg. Mix and add more flour if 
needed. Potatoes will not let them soak grease. 



"H 



GINGER SNAPS 

Mrs. Bodan 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon ginger 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cloves 

Vi cup boUing water or sweet 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

milk with 1 teaspoon soda Flour enough to mix 

dissolved in it 1 Vi cups lard 



166 Cookies, Doughnuts, Etc. 

GINGER CREAMS 

Mrs. Arnold Ttchirgi, Sheridan 

1 % cups lard 1 cup boiling water 

1 cup molasses Flour 

1 cup sugar 1 cup powdered sugar 

1 tablespoon ginger 2 tablespoons water 
1 level tablespoon soda 

Mix lard, molasses, sugar, ginger, soda and the cup of boiling 
water, with flour to make soft dough, and let stand over night: 
next morning, cut in squares and bake. Frost with powdered 
sugar and water mixed together. 

GINGERBREAD 

Mrs. W. F. Williams 

I cup sugar I teaspoon cloves 

Vi cup molasses I teaspoon soda 

Vi cup butter 3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon ginger T cup boiling water 

I teaspoon cinnamon 2 egg^ 

Sift together ginger, cinnamon, cloves and soda with flour. 
Pour boiling water on sugar, molasses and butter, then add the 
dry ingredients. Beat in eggs at the last. 

KREMMERHUSE 

Mrs. John McKean, Sundance, Wyo. 

5 eggs I cup sugar 

1 cup flour Vi teaspoon vanilla 

Mix flour and sugar with well-beaten eggs and one-half tea- 
spoon vanilla extract. Drop a teaspoonful in a place in a large 
baking pan and spread very thin with a broad-bladed knife in the 
shape of a large cookie. Roll while hot like a cornucopia and fill 
with whipped cream and strawberries or fruit of any kind. 



1 





emoranda 



r 



167 



0-(Jly^ 







l^i^'^AM^^ 



JJ- yuu^'>i^ 



r^KlH^^^ 



'" ^'^^•^^' 



r ^ 



«. / 



(7 r M ■'■■J- '*'^^'' 







C" 



J 



> ^; 













* < ♦« 




t*t ^ 



if '■ - ^ 
1/ 



.i ,1 ' -^v : 



-i •' 



^c 






p. 



^1 



t 



Sf 



Empress Brana Coffee 



IS THE CHEAPEST 
COFFEE TO USE 



Because 



"W TT i r\ Because 

\v JnyY It Goes 



Farther 



Stone Ordean Wells Co. 

=== Whohsah Disirihutors =^^^=5 

Sold Exclusively by 

J. L. CAMPBELL 

^ BUFFALO, WYO. 



l 



dS 



i 



(T^eese 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Vi cup milk Yolks 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup grated cheese 

2 tablespoons butter Beaten whites 3 eggs 

Heat milk, and thicken with flour and butter rubbed to a 
paste. Add yolks of eggs. Let cool and add grated cheese and 
the beaten whites of eggs. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Mrs. J. M. Lobban, Sheridan 

1 pound butter !4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 

1 pound flour Vi cup ice water 

1 pound grated cheese 

Sift flour and pepper, add butter; rub in well, then add 
cheese; mix with ice water, roll out in a thin paste. Cut in strips 
one-half inch wide, four inches long; bake in a quick oven a nice 
brown. They are nice served with salad. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Mrs. R. M. Kennedy 

3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 1 tablespoonful milk 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls Dash of white pepper 

flour Pinch of salt 

1 tablespoonful butter T^ 

Mix with a spoon, roll out, cut in thin strips, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

PORTO RICAN CHEESE 

Season cottage cheese with butter, salt and a bit of chili pow-^ 
der. Pit large dates, and fill the cavities with the cheese. If 
cream cheese is used, use a little sherry wine in moistening it. ; ^ 

f 

••■*. 




170 Cheese 



COTTAGE CHEESE, OR SMEARCASE 

Set a pan of curded milk on the back of stove. Heat slowly 
— ^boiling will toughen it. When the curd and whey are scalded 
and separated, pour into a bag, hang on a nail until all the water 
is drained from it Rub smooth and season with salt and pepper- 
Pour thick cream over and serve. If in a hurry to make this, the 
water may be removed by squeezing the curd in a sieve. 



CHEESE WAFERS 

Dip one side of Saratoga flakes in melted butter. Place in a 
pan side by side, l^read each with grated cheese and brown a 
delicate shade. 

CHEESE OMELET 

(See Eggs) 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

(See Croquettes) 

WELSH RAREBIT 

1 tablespoon butter Vi teaspoon mustard 

Vi pound cheese !4 teaspoon soda 

Vi cup cream Yolks 2 eggs 

!4 teaspoon salt 1 whole egg 
% teaspoon paprika 

Melt butter over hot water, add cheese and condiments. 
Stir constantly until cheese is melted, add gradually the yolks 
beaten and diluted with the cream. Stir constantly over a low 
heat until smooth and creamy. Serve at once on slices of but- 
tered toast or crackers. 

GOLDEN BUCK 

Mrs. Burt Griggs 

Add to the above one-half teaspoon of Worcester^ire sauce 
Serve on toast, vrith. a poached egg on top. 



Cheese 171 



WELSH RAREBIT 

Miu MolUa Miller 

12 tablespoons grated cheese 'A teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon butter I cup rich milk 

I pinch salt I tablespoon flour 

Cajrenne pepper I egg 

Put into a double boiler. Stir until all is dissolved. Then 
thicken with a tablespoon of flour mixed in a little cold water. 
Serve on toast 



BURRITT &" GATCHELL 



Civil Engineers 



OFFICES 
Buffalo, Wyoming Kaycee, Wyoming 



i 



The Sheridan Inn 

WARNER &, CANFIELD, Props. 

Johnson County Visitors Always Welcome 

EXQUISITE CUISINE 



MODERN ROOMS 



T. N. DALL H. L. INMAN 

Civil 4nd Mining Ennineer 

DALL &, INMAN 

Real Estate Agents, Engineers Architects and Surveyors 

Wq handle all kinds of Ranch and dtp Propertp, Live Stock, Etc. 

ON COMMISSION 

Rooms 3 and 4 Kennedy Building; over Theatorium 

BUFFALO, WYO. 

Agents Rochester German Undenvriters 



TDesserls 

FOAMY SAUCE 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 



Whites 3 eggs 1 lemon 

1 cup fine sugar 1 cup boiling milk 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, but not stifF. Add 
the sugar. Beat again, and squeeze into it the juice of the lemon. 
Then pour over this the boiling milk, stirring all the time. 

TRANSPARENT SAUCE 

Mm. J. C. Van Dyke 

1 cup sugar 1 Vi pints boiling water 

1 tablespoonful flour 1 tablespoon butter 

Flavor with vanilla or brandy 

Stir sugar with flour; pour over this the boiling water, adding 
butter. 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

Vi cup butter Vi cup peach syrup or pickle 

Va cup light brown sugar vinegar 

Yolks 2 eggs 

Rub butter to a cream, adding sugar. Set the dish in boiling 
water, cutid stir until melted and hot Beat the yolks of eggs light. 
Add them to the liquid and stir until thick. Flavor ¥nth peach 
syrup or pickle vinegar. 

HARD SAUCE 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

4 tablespoons butter Beaten whites 2 eggs 

8 tablespoons powdered Vanilla 

sugar 

Cream butter and sugar; add beaten whites of eggs; flavor 
with vanilla. 



174 Desserts 



HARD SAUCE 

Mrs. Wilson McBride 

3 tablespoons butter 1 cup sweet cream 

6 tablespoons powdered Yi white of egg 

sugar Nutmeg 

Cream butter, add sugar and when light, add unbeaten egg, 
and cream, a drop at a time. Season highly. Pack in shallow 
dish. Have it very cold and it will cut out in slices. For a large 
serving, double the above recipe. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

{See ices cuid ice-creams) 

NEW ENGLAND CLEAR SAUCE 

Mrs. J. A. Terry 

1 cup sugar Butter 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Pinch of salt 

1 Vi cups boiling water 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add boiling water cutid boil until 
clear. When cooked, pour it over butter the size of a walnut, nut- 
meg to taste, a pinch of salt, and vinegar. Serve hot. 

ENGLISH CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

Mrs. L. R. Van Houten 

Vi pounds currants Peel and juice of lemon 

Vi pounds seeded raisins 2 ounces almonds chopped 

pound sultana raisins 2 nutmegs, grated 

pound bread crumbs A little mixed mixed spitzes 

pound flour 1 2 eggs 

pound sugar 1 large glass brandy 

Vi pounds mixed peel Milk 

V4 pounds chopped suet 

Mix stifF with milk. Mix all together, and this will make f our 
puddings, enough for eight people in each. Tie each part in a 
cloth wrung out of hot water, and floured. Boil four hours first 
day, and then hang away until the day you need them. Then boil 
two hours more. Use brandy sauce. 



Jfe. 



Desserts 



175 



EGOLESS PLUM PUDDING 

Mrs. T. P. HUl 



1 heaping cup bread crumbs 

2 cups flour 

1 cup chopped suet 
1 cup molasses 
1 cup raisins 



1 cup sweet milk 

1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon cloves 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 



Put in greased pail and steam four hours. 

PLUM PUDDING 

Mrs. Wilson Mc Bride 



1 pound suet 

1 pound raisins 

1 pound currants 

Vi pound citron 

5 tablespoons brown sugar 

3 cups grated bread 

1 cup flour 



I teaspoon salt 

1 nutmeg 

1 teaspoon mace 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

4 tablespoons cream 

6 eggs 

1 cup brandy or peach juice 



Chop suet fine; shave the citron; roll fruit in flour and spices. 
Beat yolks of eggs; add cream, then the other ingredients, adding 
whites of eggs, well beaten, last. Steam in buttered mold six 
hours, or may be divided in several small molds and steamed 
three hours. Serve ¥rith hard sauce. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 

Mrs. A. W. Stevens 



2 cupfuls fresh grated cocoa- 
nut 
1 pint cream, whipped 



Vi box gelatine 

1 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Soak gelatine in milk until soft, then set in hot water until dis- 
solved; add sugar and strain. When cold, and quite thick, add 
vanilla, cocoanut, and cream whipped to a solid hroth. Stir cutid 
mix gently until very thick, then turn into wet molds and set in a 
cool place. Serve with whipped cream. 



176 Desserts 



AMBROSIA 

MIm Rose Bodan 

1 tablespoonful gelatine Pinch of salt 

1 cup cold water 1 cup sugar 

Whites 4 eggs 1 teaspoon extract 
Pecans 

First, dissolve granulated gelatine in one-half cup cold water, 
and stir over the fire until thoroughly dissolved. 

Second, add another one-half cup cold water to the hot gela- 
tine, and let it stand to cool a little until you separate the whites 
of four eggs. 

Third, beat the whites of the eggs, with a tiny pinch of salt un- 
til they are very light and sti£F,and then pour the dissolved gelatine 
very slowly into the beaten whites and beat all the time while 
pouring in the gelatine. 

Fourth, sprinkle in sugar, and keep on beating. 

Fifth, add extract and beat until well mixed. 

"* Sixth, take out one- third of the mixture, and tint pink; spread 
it over the bottom of a deep dish; sprinkle chopped pecans over 
that. On top of that put the second third of white, and more 
nuts. The last third tint lavender, and spread on top of white 
layer. This is a three-layer pudding, and must be served with 
whipped cream. A wire spoon is better to* beat eggs, as it beats 
the air into the whites. 

SUET PUDDING 

Mrs. 1. W. Blake 

1 cup suet chopped fine 1 teaspoon allspice 

I cup raisins 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

I cup currants Pinch of salt 

I cup sweet milk Small teaspoon soda 

Vi cup sugar Flour 

1 teaspoon cloves ^ 

Use flour enough to make as thick as gingerbread. Boil in 
a covered pail three hours. Keep water boiling constantly. 



Desserts 177 



STEAMED PUDDING 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Vt cup butter, melted 2 cups sour milk 

1 cup molasses 2 eggs 

1 cup raisins 4 cups flour 
1 teaspoon soda 

Simple fiutid very good. Serve with transparent sauce. 
Steam three hours. 

. » 

APPLE BATTER PUDDING 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 2 cups quartered apples 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
2 tablespoons butter Vi cup sugar 

Mix sugar, salt, flour, eggs and milk. When smooth, add 
apples. Pour into a buttered baking dish, and bake one hour. 
Serve with vnne sauce. 

# 
PEACH BATTER PUDDING 

Follow the rule for Apple Batter Pudding, substituting 
peaches. 

BREAD PUDDING 

Mrs. T. M. MulhoUand 

1 quart dry bread crumbs 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sugar 1 cup currants 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped suet Yi teaspoon cloves 

(or 3 tablespoons melted Yi teaspoon nutmeg 

butter) !4 teaspoon soda 

1 egg 1 teaspoon bakingpowder 

Soak bread crumbs in water, draining o£F all the water pos- 
sible. Add sugar, flour, etc., and lastly fruit and soda, and 
bakingpow«fer. Steam three hours. 



178 Desserts 



BAHANA PUDDING 

Mrt. Carl Kube 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoonful bakingpowder 

3 eggs, beaten light A little salt 

1 cup cream, whipped light Vanilla 

1 cup flour 

Beat sugar and eggs together light; whip cream light, but not 
stifF; add flour, bakingpowder, salt, and flavor with vanilla. 
Bake in two layers. Chop five bananas fine, ¥rith one-half cup 
sugar, and put between layers of cake. Serve ¥rith little whipped 
cream on top of each piece. 



CARAMEL PUDDING 

Mrs. E. G. Beecker 

1 pint milk fi cup sugar 

2 esss Rnch of salt 



Beat whites and yolks separately. Then add one-fourth cup 
sugar. Bum one-half cup sugar to a dark browif. Then stir in 
other ingredients, and bake slowly one hour. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

3 cups milk 1 large tablespoon cornstarch 

Vi cup sugar Yolks 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla Pinch of salt 

2 squares chocolate 

Heat milk to boiling point, aifd add sugar, vanilla cutid corn- 
starch, the yolks of the eggs and salt. Mix all together and add 
to the milk. Melt chocolate over boiling water cuid add to the 
pudding. Turn into a mold. Whip the whites of the eggs stiff. 
Add one tablespoon sugar and cover pudding. Set in oven a 
moment to brown. 



Desserts 179 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Mr>. Alvin Math«r 
Yolks 2 eggs 2 teaspoons bakingpowder 

Yl cup sugar 2 squares melted chocolate 

yi ci$~inilk Y I tablespoon butter 

1 I4cup8 flour -^ 

Steam two hours and serve with hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM' (Ezcdknt) 

Two teaspoons Knox gelatine soaked in one^uarter cup of 
cold water. Heat one cup of milk. Add one and one-hall taUe- 
spoona grated chocolate. Cook ten minutes. Add two-table- 
spoons sugar and the well soaked gelatine. Strain into a bowl 
standing in cracked ice. Stir until it thickens. Add one cup of 
stiffly whipped cream. Pour into molds. 

ORANGE DESSERT 

Mra. Loia M. Bennett, Sheridan 
!4 cup orange juice 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 egg yolk 

Mix alt together and cook until it thickens, then add one-half 
teaspoon gelatine which has been soaked in a teaspoon of cold 
water, and the shredded pulp from one-half orange. Pour into 
a mold and chill. Serve with orange sauce made by beadng white 
of one egg very stiff. Take one-half of white and add one table- 
spoon powdered sugar, diree-fourths tablespoon orange juice and 
one-half tablespoon lemon juice. 

PINEAPPLE 

Add shredded pineapple to whipped cream. Chill and serve 
in a tall ^ass. 

Fill halved ct&ned peaches with whipped cream slightly 
sweetened and cover widi finely chopped nuts and serve cold. 

Plain junket may be served with cream or any stewed frUil 
or jam. 



180 



GRAPE JUICE SOUFFLE 

Mt*. Van Dyke 

1 pint gnpe juice 4 eggs 

2 tabletpoona gelatine I lemon 

I cup sugar 2 cups cream 

Soak gelatine in a little cold water. Add sugar, gelatine and * 
lemon juice to the grape juice. Heat until sugar and gelatine an 
dissolved. Put on ice to cool and when mixture begins to set beat 
in stiffly beaten whites of four eggs and two cups of cream beaten 
stiff. 

BAKED APPLES 

Mia. Loia M. Beanelt, SheriiUii 

Select ripe tart apples. Core and (ill center with sugar, add 
a Few raisins and bake in hot oven until tender, basting several 
times. Serve with cream. 

STEWED FIGS 

Mi*. Loia M. Bennett, Skeridan 

Wash thoroughly. Cover with cold water and let come to a 
' *' * * '. Simmer about one hour. Add a small amo<"** 

i cold with thick cream. 



SOFT CUSTARD 

Mr*, hoit M. Bennett, Sheridan 

1 tablespoon sugar 

md pour slowly over well-beaten yolk. Cool 
til consistency of thick cream. Add a tablespi 
md serve cold with sponge cake. The egg w] 
in boiling water and floated on top of the custa 



Desserts 181 



CUSTARD 

Mr*. Loii M. Bennatt, Skeriilan 
I cup milk 1 tableqtoon sugar 

I CRB 
Beat the egg, add the sugar and milk. Pour into a custard 
cup. Dust lightly with nutmeg. Place cup in basiii of water and 
bake in a moderate oven until well done. 

TAPIOCA CREAM PUDDING 

Mr*. Jd*. Uwe 
!4 cup minute tapioca or Yz cup sugar 

Yt cup of pearl tapioca 3 eggs 

1 quart sweet milk I teaspoon vanilla 

I -8 teaspoon salt Yz teaspoon lemon 

Put milk, tapioca and salt in a double boiler and cook twenty- 
minutes. Mix together the egg yolks and sugar. Add to tapioca 
and stir five minutes. Take from stove and put in fire-proof dish. 
Beat whites stiff and add three level tabIeq>oons of sugar. Put 
on top of pudding and bake a li^t brown. 

STEAM PUDDING 

Mi» Hazel CanterbuTy 

1 egg I Vi cups flour 

Yi cup sugar Yz cup sour milk 

Ya cup lard Yz cup raisins 

Rnch of salt Yz cup currants 

Yi teaspoon soda I tablespoon dark molasses 

Yz teaspoon nutmeg, cloves 
and cinnamon 

DATE PUDDING 

MiM Ella A. William* 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon bakingpowder 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup dates 

2 eggs I cup walnuts 
^nch of salt 

Mix all together and bake about an hour and serve widt 
whipped cream. 



182 Desserts 



COTTAGE PUDDING 

I cup sugar I teaspoon bakingpowder 

Vi cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

I egg 3 cups flour 
I cup sweet milk 

Cut in squares, and serve with any kind of pudding sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

Mrs. WUaon McBride 

I cup flour I egg 

Vi cup sugar (4 teaspoon salt 

Vi cup milk I heaping teaspoon baking- 

1 tablespoon butter powder 
Flavor to taste 

Cream butter, add sugar and beat for three minutes. Add 
salt, then egg and milk, flour and bakingpowder, and beat vigor- 
ously one minute. Bake in sheet and serve with any preferred 
sauce. 

RICE PUDDING 

Mrs. Adams Webb 

2 cups cooked rice 2-3 cup sugar 

I cup sweet milk Flavor with lemon 

3 eggs, well beaten 

Bake a light brown. When done, spread with a thick layer 
of tart jelly and cover with a meringue of the whites of three eggs, 
sweetened with one and one-half tablespoons of sugar. 

AN OLD COWBOY ROUND-UP DISH 

Rice Pudding without eggs 

Mrs. J. S. McWilliamt 

1 pint cold rice, reheated Sugar 
with I quart milk Flavoring 

2 tablespoons cornstarch I cup raisins (if desired) 

Use sugar to taste. Bake, and serve same as rice custard 
pudding. 



Desserts 183 



TAPIOCA CREAM CUSTARD 

Mi.. C. J. HogcTKin 

3 tablespoonfula tapioca Whites 3 eggs 

I quart milk 1 cup sugar 

A little salt Vanilla 

Yolks 3 eggs 

Cover tapioca widi water, and let stand over night Add 
milk, salt, and boil. Beat the yolks of die eggs, and the white of 
one, with one cup sugar, and boil the whole to a very thick custard. 
Ravor with vanilla. Cover widi the whites of the two eggs, and 
brown in oven. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Mr*. G. W. Munkrei 
3 cupfula milk 3 eggs 

3 tablespoons tapioca ^ cup granulated sugar 

3 tablespoons cocoanut 
Soak tapioca with milk one hour. Heat milk in a double 
boiler with tapioca and cocoanut When it boils, add yolks of 
eggs and sugar, well beaten, and lastly, the whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Mri. E. D. Hoilww 

1 cup ti^iioca Juice 1 lemon 

2 tablespoons sugar Whites 2 eggs. 
Soak tapioca well. Steam with sugar until di 

lemon juice, and whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Put < 
with whipped cream. 

PRUNE PUFF 

Mra. G. W. Munkrei 
Whites 8 eggs I cup prunes 

1 teaspoon cream tartar Vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs stiff. Have prunes c< 
sweetened to taste, and chopped fine. Flavo 
Bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 



184 Desserts 



ntUNE PUDDING 

Mra. Colgate 

) pound pninea Vanilla 

Whites 4 eggs 

Stew pnmes. Mash through a colander and sweeten. Beat 
the white of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into the prunes. Flavor 
with vanilla. Put in oven and bake ten minutes. Serve cold 
with cream. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Mra. Loia M. Bennett, Sheridan 

Add to three tablespoons of prune pulp one-lhird cup of 
sugar and one teaspoon lemon juice. Beat the v^te of one egg 
very stiff. Beat into the prune mixture. Pile this lightly on a 
buttered pan and bake in a slow oven ten minutes. 

BROWNED STEAMED PUDDING 

Mri. McComiakey, Gillette 

!4 cup butter 2 eggs 

'A cup sugar !4 teaspoon soda 

i/i «..n »»l.«i.^ 1/^ teaq>oon cinnamon 

'A teaspoon cloves 

ilk 

>ur. Set in oven fifteen minutes. 
iRANGE CREAM PUDDING 

Mra. }. Elmer Brock 

spoons 2 cupfuls orange juice 

3 egg yolks 
g water 2 cups heavy whipped cream 

itine in boiling v^^kr; add tiiis to die sugar, 
egg yolks. Add whipped i rwiji Pour into a 
n out when firm. ' 



Desserts 185 



SNOW PUDDING 

Mrs. Geo. J. Holt 

I package Knox gelatine Whites 4 eggs 

I cup cold water I pint milk 

I pint boiling water Yolks 4 eggs 

I Yi cups sugar 4 tablespoons sugar 

Juice of I lemon 

Dissolve gelatine in the cold water. Then add the boiling^ 
vrater, sugar and lemon juice. When cool enough to begin to 
thicken, add whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and beat it 
until thick and snow white all through. Pour into molds, serve 
with custard made of the pint of milk, the yolks of the eggs, and 
the four tablespoons sugar. Flavor if you wish. Or, it may be 
eaten with cream. 

 

SNOWBALL PUDDING 

Mrs. Alvin Clark 

1 quart milk Yolks of eggs 
Whites 4 eggs Yi cup sugar 

2 tablespoons sugar Vanilla 

Let milk come to a boil. Beat whites of eggs stiff and sweet- 
en with the sugar. Turn into the hot milk. Cook on one side, 
turn over, and when cooked through, lift out whites. Beat yolks 
of eggs with sugar, and stir into milk. Pour into mold and put 
whites on top. Flavor with vanilla. 

STEAMED COFFEE PUDDING 

Mrs. Roy Van Loan 

I quart bread crumbs 3 eggs 

I cup brown sugar Ya teaspoon cloves 

I tablespoon melted butter Ya teaspoon cinnamon 

I cUp chopped raisins I teaspoon soda 

Moi' ^n the bread crumbs with enough strong coffee to make 
a soft r I add sugar, melted butter, eggs well beaten, raisins 
and Dissolvp * n a little cold water. Mix all the 

in( ' ^nts thoroughly, turn into a buttered dish and steam one 
ho Serve with sauce or whipped cream. 



186 Desserts 



COFFEE CAKE WHIITIN 

Mrs. J. Elmer Brock 

1 tablespoon butter 3 teaspoons bakingpowder 
Vi cup sugar Sugar and cinnamon 

2 eggs Butter 

I cup milk Chopped nuts 

3 cups flour 

Mix butter and sugar as for cake. Beat eggs very light and 
add the milk. Sift flour three times. Put sugar and cinnamon 
over the top. Bake in pie tins ten minutes. Remove, and put 
butter, more sugar and cinnamon and chopped nuts over the top. 
Bake ten minutes more and serve at once. 



LEMON DUMPUNG 

Mrs. O. W. Hall, GUlette 

Make a bakingpowder biscuit dough of 

1 quart flour Yi teaspoonful salt 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls I Vi tablespoonfuls lard 
bakingpowder Sweet milk 

Mix with sweet milk to make a soft dough. Roll, and cut 
with round cutter. Place in bottom of pan the following: 

I cup sugar Rind and juice I lemon 

Dot with bits of butter and sprinkling of flour. Place the bis- 
cuits on top of this, two inches apart, and pour boiling water into 
pan until biscuits float, and bake in quick oven till brown. Serve 
with sauce in which cooked. 

AMBROSIA 

Mrs. Adams Webb 

Peel and cut six oranges in small pieces. Put a layer of 
oranges in bottom of dish, then a layer of cocoanut, then layer 
of grated pineapple, until dish is filled. Pour over all the juice of 
pineapple. Set on ice, and serve when thoroughly chilled. 



11 

J 



Desserts 187 



ALMOND DESSERT 

Mrs. P. Healy, Jr. 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatine I pint cream 

Yi cup cold water Va pound almonds 

Vi cup hot water 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in hot water. Whip 
the cream. Add sugar, gelatine and almonds, blanched and 
chopped. Turn into mold to harden. 

ALMOND CREAM 

I Vi pints milk Yi cup chopped almonds 

2\ tablespoons cornstarch Beaten whites 3 eggs 

I cup sugar Whipped cream 

Heat milk to boiling point Add cornstarch and sugar, 
mixed with a little cold milk. Lastly, add stiffly-beaten whites of 
the eggs, and chopped almonds. Serve with whipped cream. 

CREAM OF WHEAT DESSERT 

Mrs. F. E. Lucas 

I cupful cream of wheat 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

I cup seeded raisins 2 tablespoons sugar 

I cup vrater I tablespoon butter 

Cook cupful of cream of wheat. When cooled, pour into in- 
dividual molds. Cook raisins with water and vinegar, sugar and 
butter. Pour over molded cream of wheat and serve with rich 
cream. 

MAPLE WHIP 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

Yi cup sugar I teaspoon butter 

1 cup maple syrup 2 Yi tablespoons cornstarch 
Yolks 2 eggs Beaten whites 2 eggs 

2 cups cold water Yi cup broken pecan nut meats 
Pinch of salt 

Put in double boiler, and when hot, add pinch of salt, butter 
and cornstarch. When cold, stir in beaten whites of eggs and nut 
meats. Serve with whipped cream. 



r 
I 



188 Desserts 



CINNAMON APPLES 

Mrs. Robert Rose 

« 

Peel and core the apples. Fill the centers with the little 
cinnamon candies and bake. If the apples are very tart» a little 
sugar may be a<;^ded. Serve either hot or cold. These are delic- 
ious served with whipped cream. 

BAKED APPLES WITH MARSHMALLOWS 

Mrs. C. W. Bond 

When baked apples are ready to take from the oven, spread 
marshmallows over top and let brown in the oven. Serve with 
plain or whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS 

Mrs. E. G. Beecker 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon bakingpowder 
1 cup sweet milk Vi teaspoon vanilla 

Vi cup grated chocolate 

Put in buttered cups and steam one hour. Serve widi 
whipped cream. 

COFFEE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 

I heaping tablespoon gelatine Vi teacup sugar 

Cold water I pint cream, whipped 

I cupful strong hot coffee 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water, enough to cover. Soak one- 
half hour, and add coffee and sugar. Whip the cream stiff, add 
to the odier ingredients when gelatine is cool, before it sets. 






Desserts 



^ 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Mrs. James Gallup 



I pint thick sweet cream I cup warm milk 

I cup pulverized sugar Whites 2 eggs, well beaten 

3 large tablespoonfuls Sponge cake 

gelatine Vanilla 

Sweeten cream with pulverized sugar. Flavor with vanilla 
and whip until thick. Dissolve gelatine in warm milk. Line 
molds with sponge cake, fitting in nicely. Strain dissolved gela- 
tine and milk cold into whipped cream, beating in whites of eggs, 
and pour into mold. Set to cool. 



HEAVENLY HASH 

Mrs. L. R. Van Houten 

I pound marshmallows I pint whipped cream 

I pound English walnuts Juice from cherries 

Vi pound or I pint maraschino I tablespoonful vanilla 
cherries 

Cut marshmallows in small pieces; chop walnuts, not too 
fine; mix all ingredients thoroughly. Serve ice cold with fancy 
cakes. This will serve twelve persons. 



MERINGUES ^ 

Mrs* J. H. Lott 

Whites I dozen eggs Whipped cream, sweetened 

Pinch of salt and flavored 

I pound fine powdered sugar 

Whisk the whites of the eggs and salt to a stiff froth. Then 
gradually add the sugar, stirring gendy. Drop from a spoon 
onto a buttered tin. Bake a delicate brown. Fill with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored. 



190 Desserts 



PEACH SPONGE 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

2 cups granulated sugar Vi box gelatine 

I cup boiling water Whites 2 eggs 

I pound peaches 

Let sugar and water boil. Peel the peaches. Slice into the 
boiling syrup and cook until tender. Add the gelatine, previously 
dissolved in hot vrater. Then rub through a sieve and add vrhites 
of eggs, and beat until it begins to thicken. Turn into a mold. 
Canned peaches may be used. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

Mrs. L. R. Van Houten 

iVi cups scalded milk Vi teaspoon salt 

Vi cup cold milk I tablespoon lemon juice 

Yi cup cornstarch I can grated pineapple 

Vi cup sugar Whites of 3 or 4 egg% 

Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt in cold milk, stir into scalded 
milk and cook ten minutes. Take' from stove and add pineapple 
and lemon juice. When partially cold, fold in the stiffly beaten 
., ^rfiites. Use yolks for custard. 

^ - ^ PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

Mrs. M. F. Fish 

1 package gelatine 1 cup water 

]^**®' 1 can shredded pineapple 

1 cup sugar 1 pint cream, whipped 

Soak gelatine in as little water as possible. Add boiling 
syrup made of the sugar and cup water. Then cool. When be- 
gmmng to thicken, add the cream, whipped till stiff, and mold. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE 

1 can grated pineapple Vi box Knox gelatine 

' pint cream, whipped 

coldt^!!^'' ^'"'PP^I ^'^^ .*^ ^«*^- Soak gelatine in a little 
and turn into TnilT *" ^ ^""^ ^''*^'* ^^^ ^" together 



Desserts 191 



COLO PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE 

Mrs. Alex Healy 

Yolks 3 eggs 2-3 cup diced canned 

Grated rind of one lemon pineapple 

Juice of one lemon Vi cup pineapple juice 

Yi cup sugar 2-3 tablespoon granulated 

Few grains salt gelatine 

Whites of 3 eggs I -3 cup cold water 

Vi cup heavy cream 

Beat egg yolks slightly and add grated rind, lemon juice, 
sugar and salt. Cook over hot water until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from range and add gelatine, which has 
been cooked in cold water fivie minutes, and pineapple. When 
mixture begins to thicken, add cream beaten until stiff and egg 
white beaten until stiff. Turn into a mold, garnish with pieces 
of canned sliced pineapple and candied cherries, and chill dior- 
oughly. Remove from mold to chilled serving dish and garnish, 
with cherries and bits of pineapple. 

MARSHMALLOW FLUFF 

Mrs. Robert Rose 

I pound marshmallows Vi pint cream, whipped 

1 pineapple 

Cut marshmallows in small bits with the scissors. Cut pine- 
apple into Little bits. Take an egg beater and beat the two for 
half an hour. Set in very cold place until next morning. Then 
take cream, whipped a little, and pour into mixture, and whip 
thoroughly. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP 

Mrs. M. E. Frame 

2 egg whites I cup strawberries 

Yi cup powdered sugar I tablespoon lemon juice 

Crush the berries; add sugar and lemon juice. Beat eggs 
imtil stiff, and continue beating while adding strawberry mixture. 
Serve with beaten cream. 



MU^Bm 



192 Desserts 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

2 cups sugar Yolks 2 eggs 

1 quart milk Nuts 

2 tablespoons flour Whipped cream 

Brown sugar and put into the milk in double boiler; add 
thickening made with flour and yolks of eggs. Nuts may be 
added, and this is also good frozen. When used as custard, serve 
with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 

SPANISH CREAM 

Mr«. Colgate 

Vi box gelatine 4 tablespoons sugar 

I quart sweet milk Flavoring 

4 eggs 

Soak gelatine in milk for two hours. Beat yolks of eggs with 
sugdi*, and stir into boiling milk in a double boiler. When about 
the thickness of custard, take off and let cool. Then add the 
whites of eggs, beaten with sugar, and flavor to suit taste. 

LEMON JELLY 

1 box gelatine I quart boiling water 
Juice 3 lemons Whipped cream 

2 cupfuls white sugar 

Soak gelatine in enough cold water to cover it. Then add 
juice of lemons and sugar. Pour over tjiis the boiling water. 
Stir until dissolved and strain into a mold with a cavity in the 
center. Dash mold into hot water before turning out. FOl 
cavity with whipped cream. 

ORANGE JELLY 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

2 tablespoons gelatine I cupful granulated sugar 

Vi cup cold water I Vi cups orange juice 

I Vi cups boiling water 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in cold water for twenty minutes. Dissolve in 
boiling water. Strain and add sugar, orange juice and lemon 
juice. Turn into mold. 



Desserts 193 



COFFEE JELLY 

Mrs. Colgate 

Vi box gelatine Va cup sugar 

Vi cup cold water Vi pint boiling water 

I pint strong boiling coffee 

Soak gelatine in cold water for a few minutes. Pour over it 
the coffee. When dissolved, stir in the sugar, 2aid add boiling 
water. Strain into mold, and serve with whipped cream. 

RASPBERRY JELLY 

Mrs. W. G. Owen 

I small box raspberries 1 cup warm water 

1 Vi cups powdered sugar Whipped cream 

2 tablespoons gelatine 

Sprinkle sugar over raspberries, and allow to stand until sugar 
is melted. Crush berries through colander. There should be a 
pint of juice, but if not, add enough water to make a pint of liquid. 
Dissolve gelatine in warm water, and stir into fruit juice, putting 
in refrigerator to harden. When serving, place cubes of gelatine 
in a tall glass, with a layer of whipped cream between and on top 
of layers of jelly. This is much improved by pouring juice of 
more raspberries over the whole. 

WINE JELLY 

Mrs. Colgate 

2 tablespoons gelatine Vi cup lemon juice 

I -3 cup cold water Vi cup orange juice 

I cup boiling water 1 cup sugar 
I cup wine 

Strain into mold to harden. 

STUFFED DATES 

Remove seed and fill cavity with one-half English walnut 
or pecan. 



194 



FRUIT CHEESE 

Mr*. Bnrt Crigg* 



'A pound datea 
l^i pound figs 
Vi pound raiains 
Vz pound shelled almonda 
Grind twice in medium size chopper, 
until solid. 



'A pound shelled English 

walnuts 
Vt cup powdered sugar 



Mould and let stand 



SALTED ALMONDS 

Pour boiling water over shelled nuts. Let stand a few 
minutes. Pour off, dash into cold water. Drain, and remove 
skins. Put one large piece of butter in a dripping pan, and when 
very hot, add nuts. Put in oven, stir frtMuently, and ^^en a 
sr*!*!- loid annnltle liojitlv undk- — -'* 

Apple Snow.— Rub a quart of stewed 
apples through a. sieve and sweeten with 
one cupful of sugar. Season with nut- 
meg, and cinnamon. Beat the whites of 
four eggs very stiff and stir them ieto a 
half pint of cream. Beat this into the^p- 
ples. Heap the mixture into an aluminum 
baking-dish and put into the oven for five' 
minutes. Serve with a coating of whipped 



delicate brown, drain in a colar^"- a 



SiRAWBERHV Cups, — A Quickly prepared 
and delicious dish may be made by re- 
moving the centers of cup cakes, filling 
each with a mixture of chopped straw- 
berries and almonds, and heapmg each 
with a tiny mound of whipped cream. 



Memoranda 



195 



J » f\ 



L 



■J  ■' 



\ ' 



' 



c-' 






H. P. ROTHWELL. Pm. 
W. J. THOM, C«lu«r 



E. D. METCALF. Vice-Pi«s. 
W. R. HOLT. Am. Cashier 



First National Bank 

BUFFALO, WYOMING 

Capital, Surplus and Profits, Over f 150,000. 00 
Total Assets, Over f 600,000.00 

United States Depository. 

Careful attention given to smallest accounts. 

We are ever readv to assist our customers in all legitimate business to the 

limit of tKeir credit, and to give them the benefit of advice, based on our 

experience of twenty-four years in this dty. 



fi/oV 



THEATORIUM 



r-^. 



i.^x*'-  



m 



.  "Li*' 



•Cs*.; 



F. E. WHITCOMB €r KENNETH LANGWORTHY. Proprietors 



p 



• • 



arisian Dry Cleaners & Dyers 

BUFFALO. WYOMING 



Our Motto is to Please You 



The Spots Do Not Come Back 



SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 



3ce5 anb 3ce (Treams 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

« 

Mrs. Lois Bennett 

2 quarts rich sweet cream 2 cups sugar 

1 quart fresh milk 2 tablespoons vanilla 

Mix and freeze 

ALMOND ICE CREAM 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 

Prepare cream and sugar as for vanilla ice cream. Blanch 
and chop three-fourths pound almonds, put in a pan, sprinkle over 
with sugar, and brown a delicate color in oven, stirring often to 
keep from burning. Flavor cream with extract of bitter almond, 
put in freezer, and when thoroughly chilled, add nuts and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Mrs. J. H. Lott 

2 quarts cream Sugar 
2 quarts milk Vanilla 
!4 pound chocolate 

Warm the milk, dissolve chocolate in a little of the milk. 
Add gradually the remainder of the milk. Add to cream and 
freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

I quart fresh cream 2 cups sugar 

1 quart berries 

Mix one cup of sugar with berries, and let stand for two 
hours. Strain through a coarse cloth or sieve. Add one cup of 
the sugar to the juice, and when dissolved, add cream and freeze. 
Some prefer to mash fruit and add without straining. Raspber- 
ries, pineapple and other fruits made the same. 



198 Ices and loe Creams 



■«» X 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

I quart freah cream Sugar 

1 quart berries Juice 2 lemons 

Mash strawberries through a colander or sieve, and add juice 
of lemons. Sweeten to taste. Put in freezer and freeze until it 
begins to stiffen. Sweeten cream a little, and add to frozen 
berries. Freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

2 quarts berries Water 

2 pounds sugar Beaten whites 3 eggs 

Mix sugar and berries, and let stand one hour. Squeeze 
through a cloth. Add an equal quantity of water, and when half 
frozen, add the beaten whites of the eggs. 

This applies to raspberries, currants or other fruit ices. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Mrs. P. M. Fisher 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pint cream 

1 Vi pints new milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Brown sugar in a fr3ring-pan, without water. Stir the sugar 
constantly over a hot fire until it melts and browns. Pour milk 
into the hot sugar. It will at once form a large lump, but by stirring 
it constantly, it will again dissolve. Set aside to cool; then add 
cream, vanilla, strain through thin cloth, and freeze. This will 
make two quarts of ice cream. 

CHERRY PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 

Miss Hazel Canterbury 

3 cups sugar !4 cup flour 

2 eggs 1 pint milk 

Boil milk and add sugar, eggs and flour. When cool add 
two quarts thick cream, one-half pound chopped blanched 
almonds, one-half pint cherries and one small can grated pine^ 
apple. Three teaspoons vanilla. This will make one gallon or 
six quarts of ice cream. . ^ 



Ices and Ice Creams 199 

 ■- I 1 -u -1 1 - 1 1 1 l _f I B,  - .       .1 ___^_^___ 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

1 quart new milk Juice I lemon 

2 well-beaten eggs 1 can grated pineapple 
2 scant tablespoons flour Sugar 

4 cups thin cream 

Heat milk and put ilito it the well-beaten eggs and flour, dis- 
solved in a little cold milk. Cook till thoroughly blended. 
When cool, add cream, lemon juice and pineapple. Sweeten 
this mixture to taste. 

This will make nearly a gallon of ice cream. 

SHERBET 

Mrs. Wilson McBride 

4 cups milk, or part cream Juice 3 lemons 

I Vz cups sugar Juice 1 orange 

Mix juice and sugar, until half melted. Add milk slowly. 
Makes two quarts. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Lois M. Bennett, Sheridan 

Add to one cup of whipped cream two tablespoons of toasted 
sponge cake crumbs rolled fine, one and one-half tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and one teaspoon sherry. Freeze. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Fre9 W. Oswald 



_^^J^ijimrt I ffTT^ncots 1 lemon 

1 Vz cups sugar I quart cream 

2 cups' water 

Boil water and sugar together for five minutes. Add juice of 
one lemon and let cool. Put the apricots through sieve. Mix all 
together. When it begins to freeze, add one quart of good cream. 



200 Ices and Ice Creams 

GINGER ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Fred W. Oswald 

I quart thick cream 3 tablespoons ginger syrup 

I pint fresh milk Vi cup canton ginger cut in 

I cup sugar strings 

I tablespoon vanilla 2 tablespoons of cherry wine 

Stir all together and freeze. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Mrs. W. P. Adams 

uice 6 lemons 2 quarts boiling water 

uice 2 oranges Whites 2 eggs 

Yi quarts sugar 

Add whites of eggs when partly frozen. 

FIVE THREES 

Mrs. A. G. Lucas 

3 oranges 3 cups- boiling water 

3 lemons 3 cups sugar 

3 bananas 2 tablespoonfuls gelatine 

Dissolve gelatine in a little cold water. Put sugar and juice 
of fruit in boiling water and gelatine, and when ready to freeze, 
strain and add sliced bananas. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

Mrs. Colgate 

1 can grated pineapple 1 !4 pints sugar 

1 tablespoon gelatine Juice 3 lemons 

Yi cup cold water Whites 3 eggs, well beaten 

Yi cup hot water 

Soak gelatine in cold water for ten minutes; then add hot 
water, sugar, lemon juice, and whites of eggs well beaten. 



■*H?* .'i ii ^-*W**^ 



Ices and Ice Creams 201 



MILK SHERBET 

4 juicy lemons 1^ pint sugar 

I pint cream I quart new milk 

Mix lemon juice and sugar together and put in freezer 
When thoroughly chilled, add milk and cream, and freeze. 



GRAPE SHERBET 

Mrs. W. R. Holt 

1 quart bottle grape juice I quart water 

Juice 3 lemons Sugar 

Sweeten to taste. Freeze very hard, turning the freezer 
rapidly, so as to whip well. Whites of eggs may be added. 



CRANBERRY SHERBET 

Mrs. C. A. Given 

I quart cranberries Sugar 

Juice 3 lemons I cup water 

Stew cranberries, mash and strain. Add juice of lemons and 
sweeten to taste, adding water. Freeze. 

ORANGE SHERBET 

Mrs. J. L. Lowe 

I tablespoon gelatine 6 oranges, or I pint juice 

1 scant pint cold water Vi cup boiling water 

I cup sugar 

Soak gelatine in half cup cold water ten minutes. Put sugar 
and remainder of cold water in a larger bowl. Cut oranges in 
halves, remove seeds and squeeze juice into bowl. Add more 
sugar if oranges are very sour. Dissolve gelatine in boiling water. 
Add to mixture, strain into can, and freeze. 



303 Ices and loe Creams 



ORANGE SHERBET 

Mrs. H. E. FrjHberger, 



1 quart cream I tablespoon gelatme 

2 cups sugar I cup cold water 
5 oranges I cup milk 

Vi lemon 

Dissolve gelatine in cold ¥rater. Add milk if you wish. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

Mrs. J. C. Johnston, Springfield, 111. 

Vi cup milk 2-3 cup sugar 

4 tablespoonfuls grated Lump of butter 

chocolate 

Cook until thick enough to be like thick cream when cold. 
CARAMEL SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

Mrs. W. J. Tkom 

2 ounces chocolate 1 ounce butter 

2 cups light brown sugar ^^ Vi cup rich milk 

Cook until mixture foriM^soft ball in cold water. Take 
from stove and add vanilla. 

MOUSSE WITH CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Mrs. J. C. Van Dyke 

Chocolate ice cream Pinch of salt 

I tablespoon gelatine Vanilla 

!4 cup cold water 1 pint whipped cream 

I cup powdered sugar 

Line a mold with chocolate ice cream, about one and one- 
half inches in thickness. Dissolve gelatine in water; add sug:ar, 
salt, flavor with vanilla, and strain into whipped cream. Pack 
firmly inside the ice cream. 



Ices and Ice Creams 203 



MAPLE MOUSSE 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

Yolks 8 eggs 1 quart thick cream 

I Vi cups maple ssnrup 

Beat yolks of eggs very light Add maptl syrup. Put in 
double boiler and heat till thick. Let cool. When cold, mix 
very lightly with the whips of one quart of thick cream. Turn 
into a mold* and pack in equal parts of salt and ice for four hours. 
When half of time is up, open freezer and gently stir, so all freezes 
evenly. * 

PEACH MOUSSE 

Mr«. Geo. P. June 

I cup peach pulp I -3 cup boiling water 

1 cup sugar 2 stiffly-beaten whites of eggs 

Vi lemon 1 cup cream, beaten stiff 

Boil sugar and water until it threads; pour over the beaten 
whites, and stir constantly until cool. Add the peaoh pulp, lemon 
juice, and fold in the whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt, and 
let stand three hours. 

TUm FRirr^Pl' ARFAIT 

Mrs. E. B. Mather 

Vi cup sugar I pint cream 

I -3 cup water I teaspoon vanilla 

Whites 2 eggs 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. Pour ssnrup 
over the well-beaten whites of eggs, and when cold, fold in the 
cream. Flavor and put into molds. (Bakingpowder cans will 
do.) Pack in ice and salt for four or five hours. Wrap the 
molds in hot cloth or dip in hot water to release the cream, when 
ready to serve. You can add to the above before placing in 
molds, two cupfuls of fruit; may be strawberries and peaches or 
pineapple and bananas, or any desired fruit. A little more sugar 
is needed when fruit is added. 



J 



204 Ices and Ice Creams 



MAPLE PARFAIT 

Mrs. J. C. Jolinston* Springfield, 111. 

6 eggs, beaten light 1 quart cream 

2-3 cup maple syrup Nuts 

Beat eggs lig^t; mix with maple syrup. Put on stove over 
hot water, and stir until thick. Let cool, then take cream, ivhip, 
and mix all together. Pack in ice and let stand three or four 
hours. Add nuts, if desired. 

FROZEN MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

1 Vi cups candied cherries 1 cup marshmallows 

soaked in enough rum or 1 Vi cups cream 

blackberry brandy to cover IVi tablespoons pulverized 

Yi cup nut meats sugar 

Cut marshmallows into bits. Whip cream and sweeten 
with the pulverized sugar. Place all in a mold and pack in equal 
parts of salt and ice for three or four hours. When half of time 
is up, open freezer and gently stir contents, so all will be evenly 
frozen. Serve in parfait glasses. 

ROMAN PUNCH 

Juice 8 lemons \^^if 1 wine-glass rum 

Juice 5 oranges 2 wine-glasses champagne 

3 pints sugar Whites 3 eggs, well beaten 

Boil juice of lemons and oranges with sugar, and strain. 
Add rum and champagne, also whites of eggs, well beaten. 
Freeze. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Mrs; Hogerson 

4 oranges, cut in small pieces Yi bottle strawberry syrup 
1 2 lemons 1 gallon water 

3 cups sugar 

Add cherries, if desired. Pour over chipped ice, and serve 
in wine-glasses. 



Ices and Ice Creams 205 



CLARET CUP 

Mrs. Colgate 

2 quarts claret Powdered sugar to taste 

Vi pint Jamaica rum 2 oranges 

Vi pint sherry 3 lemons 
Vi pint brandy 

Mix rum, brandy, sherry and the juices of oranges and lemons 
together, and let stand luitil wanted. Then add claret, stir well, 
and add some small pieces of orange and lemon. 



FROZEN CRANBERRIES 

Mrs. Merrion 

1 quart cranberries 2 egg whites 

2 cups water 2 cups sugar 
Ya cup raisins 2 cups water 

Boil cranberries, raisins and two cups water ten minutes. 
Strain through fine sieve. Boil two cups sugar and two cups 
water twenty minutes and add to first mixture. Cool and freeze. 
When half done add the whites of two eggs beaten light, and 
finish freezing. 

STRAWBERRY SUPREME 

Mrs. L. G. Canterbury 

2 envelopes gelatine 1 quart cream 

Vi cup cold water 2 



yj, cup cuiu ^fvaLcr ^ ^66' 

2 cups boiling water 2 cups shredded pineapple 

I cup sugar I cup strawberries 

I cup nuts 1 cup cherries 

Dissolve gelatine in one-half cup cold water. Add two cups 
boiling water. When cool, add sugar, whipped cream, whites of 
two eggs, beaten. When beginning to set, add pineapple, crushed 
strawberries, cherries and ground nuts. When cold cut in slices 
and serve with whipped cream and crushed strawberries. This 
will serve forty. 



,i» 



3 pounas granuiaEea augar 

L«t fruit and sugar stand twenty-four hours. Dissolve acid 
in alcohol, and pour over fruit and stir well with wooden paddle. 
Add alt fruits in their season, adding a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit ui^l the jar is two-thirds full, Aen two-thirds 
pound sugar to each pound of fruit When jar is full, put fruit in 
glass jars, bottling syrup for ice cream, sherbets, sauces; ete. 



Caramel Ice Cream 

tngredienu 



Strawberry Ice Cbeam.-.-Mix together 
three pints of thin cream, two boxes of 
hulled, washed strawberries, which have 
stood in sugar one hour, one and three- 
quarters cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls ot 
milk, and juice of one lemon. Strain care- 
fully and freeze. 



SCALD milk in a double boiler; beat su- 
gar and eggs together until very lieht; 
add to the scalded milk, and stir carefully 
until the mixture thickens; add aalt; re- 
move from Bre, and while bUU warm add 
the carainela. When cool, add vanilla and 
cream;andfreeie. When froien pack care- 
fully and let aland 2 hours before aerving. ^ 
To make thocaramel: Put Jcupfulau- 
. gar into a shallow pan, and stir over the 
I fire until the sugar'nieltfi, tuma brown and | 
; b^na to smoke.beingcarefulthatMtdoeB , 
I not bum. Add I cupful boiling wat«r, stir, 
cool alightly, and add to the custard. 1 



^ George T.Astell ^ 
HARDWARE 

Sporting Goods A Specialty' 

Oh! Say, Can You See? 

Oh, My, can you tee It's a mounting of merit. 

By the da'wn's caHy light? And it's called the STA-SO. 

Are you positiTdy sure Thin mounting'  a vinner. 

That your gUura are right? I keep it on hand, 

t have an eyegUsa It's the best finger-iaeoe mounting 

That I want you to know; To be found in the land. 

J. H. HUKILL 

Exclu»iV9 Optomatritt 
BUFFALO - - "WyOMING 

Don't Be Misled 

By other ads stating how much money they 
can save you by trading with them. 
When you want a GOOD SUIT come in and look 

over our stock. 
If we have not on hand w^hat you want, we will soon 

get it for you — either in Suits or anything else. 
Everything in the Clothing Line for Men and Boys. 

FLINT Si. ANDERSON 



"JdUfes, 'Jams anb 'preserves 

Cover jelly with paraffin to keep off mould. 
Set the glassea when filling them on a silver knife or drop a 
silver spoon into the glass, to prevent breakage. 

APPLE JELLY 

Cut, core and quarter tart apples. Boil until a pulp. Strain, 
press slightly, and add three-quarters pound of sugar to a pound 
of juice. Boil until it will jelly on a flat plate. 

Crabapple jelly same as apple. 

CURRANT JELLY 

Cook fruit until soft, and strain through a coarse cloth. Use 
a pint of sugar to a pint of juice. Boil juice twenty minutes and 
add sugar. Let all come to a boil and fill glasses. 

CURRANT JELLY, UNCOOKED 

Mt«. J. H. Lott 

Squeeze the juice from uncooked fruit. To every cup of 
juice use one and one-quarter cups sugar. Set on back of range 
until luke warm ; stir until sugar is dissolved, and put in glasses. 

CHAPPERAl 

Mri. H. R. 

Cook berries with water to i 

bag. Use a cup of sugar to a cup 

Drop a rose geranium leaf in to fli 

CRANBERB 

Mr.. J. C. V 
3 quarts cranberries 
2 pounds sugar 

Cook all thorou^ty. Mash 
turn to stove and cook fifteen min 



310 Jellies, Jams and Preserves 

GOOSEBERRY JELLY 

Mrs. Colgate 

Uae gooseberries just before they begin to turn* Cook widi j 
water to cover them, and strain dirougii a cloth; use measure for 1 
measure of juice and sugar, and cook until it jellies on a flat didi. 

WILD PLUM JELLY 

Wash fruit, and boil in water enougli to cover until plums 
are a pulp. Strain, and use three-quarters pound of sugar to a 
jpound of juice. 

PIE PLANT JELLY 

Cut stalks of pie plant in small pieces with skins on. Stew 
down well with a little water to prevent burning, strain and use 
equal quantities of juice and sugar. Boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes, and put in glasses. 

APPLE PRESERVES 

Apples for preserving should be tart and mellow. Allow 
three-quarters pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Put sugar 
on stove with a little water to prevent burning; add apples. Boil 
until apples are transparent. Remove apples and boil syrup 
down. Flavor with ginger-root or slices of lemon just before 
canning. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES 

Take small green tomatoes. Put them in a clarified ssnrup 
made of white sugar equal in weight to the tomatoes, and cold 
water enough to cover the quantity of fruit. Slice in one lemon to 
every two pounds of tomatoes. Boil gently three hours. 

RIPE TOMATO PRESERVES 

Scald tomatoes to remove skins. Then slice tomatoes in 
porcelain kettle. Let boil few minutes and add sugar, measure 
for measure.. Slice lemon in to flavor. Let boil slowly untfl 
thick, but not long enough to harden seeds. 



Jellies, Jams and Preserves 311 

CITRON PRESERVES 

Mrs. Walter Smith _ 

Cut in slices one and one-half inch diick. Wei^ and use 
white sugar, pound for pound. Make syrup, adding one pint of 
water to ten pounds of sugar. Simmer gently twenty minutes; 
skim, add citron, and boil one hour, or until clear. Before taking 
from stove, add two lemons sliced, and two ounces of ginger-root. 

BLUE PLUM PRESERVES 

Mrs. Mather 

Peel the skin from any quantity of blue plums. To every 
pound of fruit, add three-quarters pound of sugar, and let stand 
over niglit. Put over fire, and cook until fruit is tender. Skim 
out and let syrup boil until thick. 

WILD PLUM PRESERVES 

Mrs. Walter Smith 

Wash and slash with sharp knife. Use white sugar pound 
for pound. Let stand over night Set on back of stove and 
simmer gently until tender. 

WATERMELON PRESERVES 

(Same as citron) 

CRABAPPLE BUTTER 

Half gallon crabapple cider; boil down to one quart. Boil 
enougli crabapples, unpeeled, to make one-half gallon of pulp; 
run through a sieve and add the boiled-down cider. Boil five or 
six hours or until dark and thick, add cinnamon to taste, and a 
dash of cayenne. Pack in jars. 

TO MAKE THE CIDER 

Mrs. Given 

Grind apples in a meat chopper. Place pan under the han- 
dle to catch the juice, and squeeze the pulp. 



312 Jellies, Jams and Preserves 

 - - 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

Mrs. Annie Hatheway 

Pick over and hull, taking care not to mash more than pos- 
sible. Now measure strawberries, and take as many quarts of 
sugar as you have berries. Put sugar in granite kettle or pan and 
add enough water to dissolve same. Boil and skim till quite a 
thick syrup. Now put in berries, and stir as little as possible. 
Let boil gently until thick. Put in jars and seal while hot. 

Raspberries are put up same way, only taking one quart of 
sugar to two quarts of raspberries. 

PEACH PRESERVES 

Pare peaches and leave whole. Allow one pound of sugar 
to a pound of peaches. Dissolve sugar and let boil a few minutes 
and skim. Put in peaches and cook on back of stove until the 
fruit is dark and the syrup real thick. Pack peaches in a jar and 
pour syrup over them. 

PEAR PRESERVES 

Pare fruit and cut in quarters, removing the core. Use three- 
quarters pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, and proceed as for 
peach preserves. 

JUNE PRESERVES 

To every quart of strawberries, use one can of sliced pine- 
apple, or one fresh one. Treat the same as strawberry peserves, 
using a little less sugar. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

Three-quarters pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Rinse 
the fruit and put into a preserving kettle, stirring constantly until 
part of the juice is evaporated. Then add the sugar and simmer 
to a fine jam. A good addition is one quart of currants to diree 
quarts of raspberries. 



r— --*■' 



Jellies, Jams and Pi 

ORANGE MARMA! 

Mm. W. J. ThoBo 

Slice thirteen oranges thin, without 
white string, and navel. Add seven pii 
stand for twenty-four hours. Boil one I 
pints of sugar, boil another hour, then a 
and boil fifteen minutes. 

ORANGE MARMA 

Mr*. S. C Langwort 

6 oranges I gn 

2 lemons 

Slice fruit very thin. Measure fnii 
three quarts of water. Let stand twen 
transparenL Let stand twenty-four ho 
of fruit add three-fourths quart sugar an 

CHERRY CONSE 

Mr*. J. A. Terry 

5 pounds pitted cherries 4 on 

5 pounds sugar I let 

2 !4 pounds seeded rairins 

Use all the orange and lemon. Chi 
boil all toge^er for one hour. 



RHUBARB MARM/ 

Mri. H. U Barrott, Sh 

6 pounds riiubarb Juice 

6 pounds sugar 

Let stand over night Cook until ti 
Di slowly on the back of the stove. 



Camdiix Cherries. — Stone one quart 
of ripe cherrjei and cut them in halves. 
. Make a syrup out of one pound of sugar 
' and one cupful of water, and cook until n rsmt^S^ 

]■ the drippings from the spoon become ^^ 
? briiile wlien dropped into cold water. Re- 
'j move the boiUng mixture to an asbestos 
i mat, and stir until it begins to granulate. 
Drop in the cherries, a few at a time, and 
let each supply stay in the hot syrup for 
two minutes before removing them to a 
sieve. Shake the candied fruit gently, and 
dry on a china dish or marble slab in the 



(tantttb 7ruit5 anb Vegetables 



CANNED STRAWBERRIES 

Mrs. W. Copps 



One coflFee-cup of sugar to one quart of berries. Melt sugar 
on stove with a tiny bit of water to keep from burning. When 
boiling hot, drop in fruit, and sinuner on back of stove slowly 
for ten minutes. Can immediately. 

TO CAN SMALL FRUIT 

Mn. Van Dyke 

Strawberries, raspberries and any kind of small fruit may be 
treated in die following excellent manner: Pack fruit in jars, sift 
in sugar around fruit, a couple of tablespoonfuls for a pint jar, or 
more for a larger jar. Put on lids, without the rubbers. Set in a 
boiler, pour in cold water, enougji to cover diree-fourths of die 
jar. Let boil twenty minutes. Take out, and fill the jars, one 
from anodier. Put on rubbers and seal tight. 

CANNED PEACHES 

Mrs. Mather 

Four pounds of best free-stones and two pounds of sugar. 
Make a syrup of sugar with just enough water to dissolve it. Pare 
and halve peaches and place in a plate in a steamer. Steam until 
tender, and any juice that collects in the plate pour into die syrup. 
Drop peaches into syrup for five minutes and can. The peaches 
should be dirown into cold water as they are pared, to prevent 
them turning dark. 

CANNED RASPBERRIES AND STRAWBERRIES COLD 

Use pound for pound of fruit and sugar. Put in a granite 
pan and stirwidi a potato masher for one hour. When all is a 
perf ecdy smooth jam, can immediately. 



316 Canned Fruits and Vegetables 



CANNED RHUBARB 

Mra. ArteU 

Wash, peel and cut rhubarb in amall pieces. Pack in jars. 
Cover with cold water and seal tight. Can gooseberries in the 
same way. 

CANNED GOOSEBERRIES 

Mra. John King 

Stem nice large berries, and fill one-quart Mason jars; add 
one-half cup sugar and a little water. Set in a boiler of cold wa- 
ter. Heat gradually and boil until berries are tender. Fill jars 
with boiling water and seal vdiile faoL Stand on end until cold. 

CANNED PEAS 

Mri. Annie Hatheway 

Gather peaa when just right for the table, shell and wash, 
pour over cold water" until jars run over, secure 
do not put rubbers on. Lay some boards on 
oiler. It is beat to bore holes in the boards, so 
1 through. Now, tie each jar around with old 
the boards. Fill boiler with cold water up to 
d keep boiling six hours, pouring in boiling wa- 
Then take out and put on rubbers as quickly 
w on lids tighdy and set in cool, dark place. It 
boards on top of jars, slightly WMghted, to pre- 
wbite boiling, 
ined same as peas. 

CANNED TOMATOES 

^_ Mr*. W. R. Holt 



ipe t^atoes, and remove skins. Cut each 
id placeV porcelain kettle. Salt to suit taste. 
1 tomateehare very tender, and place in jars and 
hot 



J 



Canned Fruits and Vegetables 217 

CANNED CORN 

Mr*. Annie Hatheway 

Gather com when right for table. Cut carefully ao none 
of the cob is cut with the com. Now sprinkle with a little salt 
and mix well. Put in jars, mash down with spoon till milk runs 
over jar, screw on lids, leaving off rubbers. Place board in bot- 
tom of ^vash boiler, first boring full of holes; 'wrap each jar with 
cloth, and tie on. Fill to top of jars with cold water, place board 
on top of jars, and weight down. Boil six hours, take out, put on 
rubbers, screw lids tight and keep in cool, dark place. 

Canned beans 

Mra. Daniel* 

Prepare beans as for the table. Add one teaspoonful cream 
of tartar to one quart of beans. Cook fifteen minutes and can. 
When wanted for use, pour boiling water through them. Add 
one teaspoon soda, boil ten minutes. Pour off, put on fresh water 
and cook until tender. 

SUCED PICKU 

M». H. R. ! 

Wash and cut lengthwise tenc 
a layer of beans, sprinkle with salt 
until the jar is filled. Put a plate i 
rock. Cover with a cloth. Chan] 
mold off. When ready for use, a 
and make a cream dressing over th< 



318 Memoranda 



IJlcKlfts 

CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Mr.. T. M. MulkoUana 

Leave &e cucumbera with a little of the stem on. Make a 
strong brine and let it come to a boil. Pour over die cucumbers. 
Let atand for twenty-four hours, then take vinegar enough to 
cover them, and to every quart of vinegar, add two tableapoonfuls 
of brown sugar, a few cloves and a teaspoonful of mixed pickle 
spice. Let it all come to a boil, put the cucumbers in and scald. 
Remove from fire and put in your jar. Warranted to keep firm. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Mri. Warren Gallup 

Soak small cucumbers over night in salt water. In the morn- 
ing, scald them in weak vinegar until they are hot throu^ and 
pack them ti^t in ^ass fruit jars, with some horseradish and green 
peppers and white mustard seed. Now make a pickle boiling hot 
of good cider vinegar, three cups of sugar to one gallon of vinegar, 
with some cloves, cinnamon and allspice added to the pickle, and 
pour the hot vinegar over the cucumbers and seal. They are very 
nice and will keep years. 

PICKLED SUCED CUCUMBERS 

Mrs. W. R. DalzeU 

3 dozen cucumbers 4 tablespoons horseradish 

I dozen pickling onions 3 teaspoons mustard seed 

I quart vinegar 2 teaspoons celery seed 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons white pepper 

* I not too large, but as you would use for 
umbers and onions in salt water six hours. 
edients to boiling, let cool, and pour over 
onions, and seal. 



220 Pickles 



DILL PICKLES 

M[>. W. R. Dalzell 
Soak cucumbers in water twenty-four hours. Take one pint 
salt to Aree gallons of water and boil, tben let cool. Put layer of 
cucumbers alternately with layer of dill, using stems and all, dien 
cover with the salty water. Put a wei^t on to keep pickles well 
covered with water. 

DILL PICKLES 

Mri. Alvia Mather 
Soak cucumbers, about four or live inches long, in cold water 
over night Pour off this walur and pack them in a crock. Make 
a brine (in another vessel) that will not quite float an egg, and 
add from three to five cups of vinegar. Five cups is sufficient (or 
a five gallon crock. Heat this mixture to the boiling point, and 
pour over cucumbers. Repeat this each morning (from four to 
five mornings), until wrhen you cut a cucumber it is thoroughly 
pickled. Keep on the kitchen table during this process. Put a 
layer of the dill plant between and on top of cucumbers when you 
pack them in the crock, a few small red peppers, coriander and 

1 — I 1. A c — horseradish roots keep the pickles firm 

the cellar. Be sure to keep them in a cool 

; WATER PICKLES 

ri. Wintarling, Skeridan 
ikened Vz cup salt 

iced and soak in ice water three hours, 
q'bart jars, with a little sliced onion and 
bem vinegar etc. and seal. 

PICKLES 

■■. Winterling, Sheridan 

itard 1 gallon vinegar 

this mixture as you gather from garden. 



Pickles 221 



LITTLE PICKLES 

Mri. BuTt Grigg* 

Put small cucumbers in ice water and let stand over night 
Put few slices of onion in jar, put in cucumbers, and a slice of 
onion on top. To one quart jar, use one teaspoon mustard, half 
teaspoon celery seed. To one quart vinegar, use one cup sugar, 
half cup salt. Boil, pour over pickles, and seal. 



MUSTARD PICKLES 



Chop fine equal quantities of cauliflower, white onions, celery, 
green peppers and green tomatoes. Pour on a scalding hot brine. 
Let stand over night, and drain. Take 

y* gallon cider vinegar 6 tablespoons ground 
1 cup sugar mustard 

1 tablespoon butter Yt ounce turmeric powder 
1 cup flour 

Bring vinegar, sugar and butter to a boil, then add flour, 
mustard and turmeric, wet in cold vinegar. Pour it all scalding 
hot over pickles. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

Mr*. Alvin Clark 

1 quart ripe cucumbers 2 quarts vi 

1 quart green cucumbers Vt cup sugs 

1 quart small onions 1 cup floui 

1 quart celery 6 tablespoi 

I large cauliflower 1 tabIespo< 

Put cucumbers, onions, celery and caul 
brine, and let stand twenty-four hours. Scald 
drain. Cook vinegar, sugar, flour, mustard 
pour over pickles^ stirring constantly. 



333 



Pickles 



MIXED PICKLES 

Mrs. R. S. Norval, Seward. Neb. 



1 cauliflower 

(or 1 Vi heads cabbage) 

9 onions 

10 large cucumbers 
(or 15 small ones) 

1 quart small onions 

1 quart beans 

Spices 

!4 pound white mustard 



Vi ounce celery seed 

Vi ounce turmeric 

Vi pint grated 

Vk cup black pepper 

2V% quarts vinegar 

Vi pound brown sugar 

!4 pound ground mustard 

Vi pint olive oil 



Cut cabbage, onions and cucumbers into pieces and salt down 
over night. Drain, and put to soak in weak vinegar three or four 
da3rs. Drain, and mix in spices, mustard, celery seed, turmeric, 
horseradish, and black pepper. Boil vinegar with brown sugar, 
and pour on hot. Do this three mornings. Then add mustard 
and olive oil. 



BflXED PICKLE 

Mrs. M. Woodside 



1 peck green tomatoes 

Vi peck ripe tomatoes 

6 onions 

3 heads cabbage 

6 green peppers 

3 red peppers 

1 tablespoon salt 

4 pounds brown sugar 



Vi cup grated 

1 tablespoon ground pepper 

I tablespoon white mustard 

seed 
1 tablespoon mace 
I tablespoon celery seed 
Vinegar 



Sprinkle salt on tomatoes, onions, cabbage, peppers, and let 
drain over night. Put into a kettle the sugar, horseradish, pep- 
per, mustard seed, mace and celery seed. Cover with vinegar 
and boil until clear. 



Pickles 223 



CHOW CHOW 

Mr*. Jamei Catcliet 

2 quarts small cucumbers I quart cauliflower 

I quart large cucumbers . I gallon water 

1 quart small onions 1 cup salt 
Cut large cucumbers in pieces. Soak cucumbers, < 

and cauliflower twenty-four hours in Ae water in w^iicfa the salt 
has been dissolved. Scald in same and drain. 

Mustard: 

2 quarts vinegar 1 cup sugar 

2 tableq>oons mustard I cup flour 

1 tablespoon turmeric 4 green peppers 

Cook until it thickens, and while hot, pour over the pickles. 

CHOPPED PICKLE 

Mrs. O. P. Hmnna, Sheridan 

'A bushel green tomatoes 4 tablespoons ground 

3 good-«zed heads of cinnamon 

cabbage 1 cup ground horseradish 

!4 dozen large onions (if pre- I quart celery, chopped fine 

ferred or dozen small ones 1 gallon white wine vinegar 

2 ounces white mustard seed About 6 cups sugar 

4 tablespoons celery seed I teacup mixed spices 
6 large green peppers 

Cut off ends of tomatoes and chop fine. Chop cabbage 
fine. If one likes flavor of onion, add onions, chopped. Salt all 
of this as for slaw, and let stand over night, then put in bags and 
drain until next morning. Then mix well in bowl or li 
pan die mustard seed, celery seed, cinnamon, gre 
chopped fine (should be in salt water over night), I 
celery chopped fine. Sweeten vinegar to taste, abo 
granulated sugar; put in a bag mixed spices for picklei 
over pickles and cook fifteen minutes. Put in stone 
plate on to keep under vinegar and cover. Will keep, 
jars, for two years. 



324 Pickles 



SPANISH PICKLE 

Mrs. N. C Carwilc, Billings, Montana 

4 dozen large and small 2 ounces white mustard 

cucumbers I ounce celery seed 

1 large (inn head cabbage 1 ounce turmeric 

2 dozen onions !4 pound Colman's mustard 
or 6 or 7 large ones I pound brown sugar 

6 green peppers */i gallon vinegar 

Place cucumbers in brine four days. Slice the large ones in 
duck crosswise slices. Chop cabbage, not too fine; sprinkle with 
sufficient salt, and let drain twenty-four hours in a muslin bag. 
Cut onions' in slices; drop peppers in salt water over night. 
Squeeze with the hands, and put in the kettle alternately with the 
following apices: white mustard, celery seed, turmeric, mustard, 
brown sugar, mixed with vinegar. Boil until it thickens (about 
one hour) and seal while hot 

This recipe makes one and one-half gallons of pickle. You 
can use old cucumbers by soaking the brine out of them until ^ey 
are just salt enough. 

PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS 

A good substitute for capers. ^.^Xlather the green seeds daily 
apart. Leave a' bit of die stem attached and 
ht brine to keep. Qiange this once a wedc. 
ithering, wash in fresh water, and fill pickle kettle, 
vinegar, and cork ti^tly. 

GREEN TOMATO P1CKU5 

Mrs. O. W. Hall, Gillette 
en tomatoes I teaspoon nyce 

<wn sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

ir I teaspoon cloves 

oes fine; add brown sugar, and boil down three 
egar, mace, cinnamon and cloves, and boil about 
Let cool and put into jar.* or other vessels. Try 
u will try it again. 



,)^- 



Pickles 225 



SUCED TOMATO PICKLES 

Mi^ J. C. Van E>yke 
Take large, smooth, green tomatoes, slice, and to every eight 
or ten tomatoes, use one small onion. Put in layer in a jar, with 
a sprinkling of salt between each layer, and let stand over night. 
In the morning, pour clear water through them several times, and 
place a plateful at a time in a steamer. As they are steamed ten- 
dei^ place in a jar, and pour a boiling hot spiced vinegar over 
them, using one quart of vinegar to one pound of sugar. Tie up 
a tablespoon of cinnamon, cloves and allspice in a bag. Drop 
into vinegar. Also put in a few of the whole apices. 

HIGGLEDY PIGGLEDY 

Mn. W. D. TowKMod, Gilletla 

1 2 medium sized onions 1 tablespoon celery seed 

I peck green tomatoes 2 teaspoons butter 

1 cup salt 2 tablespoons white mustard 
3 quarts cider vinegar seaed 

1 pound sugar 8 green peppers, chopped 

2 tablespoons turmeric 

Cover tomatoes (chopped fine) and onions with salt, and let 
stand over night. Drain, wuh and drain again. Place vinegar, 
sugar, turmeric, celery seed, Blltter, mustard seed, andgreen pep- 
pers in a kettle, let boil up good, adding onions and tomatoes, 
and seal. 

STUFFED PIcicLED PEPPERS * 

Mra. Itobert Roie 
Take large green peppers, remove the stem "nAm unA m»^m 
and fill writh the following mixture: 

2 quarts chopped cabbage 2 tablespoons 

Vi cup mustard seed 2 tablespoons 

2 tablespoons celery seed 

Chopped cucumbers, or small white onions t 
desired. Cover each pepper with the stem c 
securely. Put the stuffed peppers in a jar, covei 
sar. seid, and keep in a cool, dark place. 



226 Pickles 



CORN REUSH 

Mn. J. P. Gammon 

1 ears sweet com 6 wUte onions 

I head cabbage 

Chop all fine and cook twenty minutes. 

Dressing: 

1 quart vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls ground 

2 tablespoonfuls flour mustard 

1 tablespoonful turmeric 1 Vi cups sugar 

Cook and can. 

CORN RELISH 

9 Mrs. J. P. Gaininon 

2 dozen' ears com 2 quarts vinegar 
6 large white onions !4 cup salt 
1 large head* cabbage 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 
6 small red peppers ground mustard 
6 large sweet peppers Same of celery seed 
1 cup sugar 

Shave com from^bb; chop oaions, cabbage and peppers; 
mix the mustard with pint of vinegar and mix all the other ingred- 
ients in a kettle; boil them twenty minutes, stirring all the while; 
add mustard and vinegar mixture, bring to the boiling point, and 
place in bottles while hot. Seal. Fine with cold meats. 

PICKLED PEACHES 

Mrs. G. W. Owen 

20 pounds fruit 1 handful stick cinnamon 

1 2 pounds sugar 1 handful cloy^ 

5 pints vinegar 1 handful allspice 

Heat vinegar; tie a teaspoonful of each of the' ground ibices 
in a cloth and drop into vinegar. Pare peaches and drop a few at ^ 

a time into the boiling syrup. Cook until tender. R«nbve ^ 

peaches and bo^ syrup down. Pack fiuitfn jah and pour ^snrup 
over. Reheat sjrrup and pour over fruit for dxtee fliomings. 



Pickles 227 



PICiCLED PEACHES 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

For every pound of fruit, allow half pound sugar and half 
cup vinegar. Place all the sugar and vinegar over the fire. Add 
a layer of the fruit, which has been previously peeled and stuck 
with cloves, into the boiling syrup. When fruit is tender, yet 
firm, put in jars, and let juice drain off, but don't put back into 
S3rrup. Continue with the boiling, and add two sticks of cinna- 
mon to each jar of peaches. Pour syrup over peaches and seal. 
No more boiling required. 

Pears may be treated likewise. 

PEACH MANGOES 

« 

Wash, i^lit and remove seeds from free^-stone peaches. Fill 
the cavities with finely chopped green tomatoes, grated horse- 
radish, and cabbage. Tie halves together, pack in a jar, and 
cover with a boiling syrup made of one quart of vinegar and two 
pounds of sugar. Seal at once. Excellent. 

BRANDIED PEACI^ 

Mrs. J. Hibbard 

4 pounds fruit. I pint best white brandy 

4 pounds sugaf 

Make a S3rrup of the sugar and enough water to dissolve it. 
Let come to a boil. Peel fruit and drop into S3mip. Cook for a 
few minutes, or until you can pierce fruit with a fork. . Remove 
from fire and let fruit stand in syrup over night. In the morn- 
ing, reheat, pack fruit in jars, and add an equal quantity of syrup 
and brandy. Seal. 

• PICKLED PEARS 

Pears are treated the same way as pickled peaches, except do 
not peel them. Wipe with a coarse cloth and stick two or three 
cloves in^ each one. 



s 



228 Pickles 



SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

Mrs. W. F. Williams 

Leave the stem and blossom on ripe gooseberries. Wash 

^ clean. Make a syrup of three pints of sugar to one of vinegar, 

skim if necessary, add berries and boil down until thick, adding 

more sugar if needed. When almost done, spice with cinnamon 

and cloves. Boil as thick as apple-butter. 

PICKLED BEETS 

Mrs. W. H. Wilkerson 

Boil beets until tender. Peel and pack in Mason jars. Fill 
up jars with a sweet spiced vinegar, boiling hot, and seal 
immediately. 

PICKLED WATERMELON RINDS 

Remove green rind and cut in three-inch pieces. Cover with 
water, add a good handful of salt, and let stand over nightl 
Drain, and cook until tender in clear water. Make a spiced vine- 
gar of one quart of vinegar and one and one-half pounds of sugar 
to one gallon of the rinds. Use spices as for pickled peaches. 
Drop rinds in hot vinegar, cook for a few minutes and seal. 

CITRON PICKLES 

Mrs. Geo. Munkres 

Cut rind from outside and take out center, as far as there 
are any seeds. Cut in any desired size, and cook in salt water 
until tender. Drain, and make a syrup of four pints of sugar and 
one quart of vinegar. Use spices to taste. Put rind in and cook 
ten minutes. Lift out and boil syrup down a little. 

CRABAPPLE PICKLES 

Leave stems on and remove blossom end. Steam crabapples 
in a steamer until tender, and throw into a boiling spiced vinegar, 
made of three pounds of sugar to one quart of vinegar, one ounce 
of stick cinnamon, and a few whole cloves and allspice. Let boil 
five minutes, and can immediately. 



/ 



229 



SPICED GRAPES 

7 pounds ripe grapes 3 pounds sugar 

1 quart vinegar Whole spices 

Stem grapes and pack in a jar. If the bunches are perfect, 
they may be packed unstemmed in the jar. Boil vinegar, sugar 
and spices. Boil ten minutes, skim, and pour over grapes. Turn 
a plate over them and keep in a cool place. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Mrs. Chas. Baker 

Vi bushel ripe tomatoes 1 tablespoon cloves 

Vi cup salt 1 teacupful sugar 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 1 pint vinegar 

1 tablespoon pepper Cayenne pepper 

Wash, cut and boil tomatoes with salt, until done. Strain 
through a sieve. Put liquor on again, and boil. Add cinnamon, 
pepper, cloves, sugar and vinegar, and boil until thick. When 
done, put in cayenne pepper to taste. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Mrs. Caroline Given 

Vi gallon ripe tomatoes 1 tablespoon salt 

1 onion 1 teaspoon white pepper 

Vi pint vinegar A dash of cayenne 

1 cup sugar 

Cook tomatoes and onion, and run through a coarse sieve. 
Put back on stove, and boil down one third. Add vinegar, sugar, 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and boil briskly for twenty minutes. Seal 
while hot. 

CHIU SAUCE 

Mrs. Winterling, Sheridan 

30 ripe tomatoes 1 5 tablespoons sugar 

1 onions 5 tablespoons salt 

5 green peppers 1 cups of vinegar 

Cook down one half. Place in Mason jars. 






330 Pickles 



PEACH CATSUP 

Mrs. Fred Clauaan 

Remove akins by plunging the peaches into boiling water. 
Take out the stones. To ten pounds of fruit» take 

1 kz pounds sugar I large tablespoon ground 

Small cup vinegar cloves 

1 large tablespoon cinnamon 

Mix well and boil one hour. 

COLD CATSUP 

Mrs. J. L. Campbell 

1 gallon ripe tomatoes, 1 teacup horseradish, 
chopped fine and drained grated fine 

2 large red peppers, chopped 2 teaspoonfuls white pepper 
fine 1 quart pure cider vinegar 

1 quart white onions, Va cup salt 

chopped fine 2 cups brown sugar 

Va cup mustard seed !4 cup celery seed 

Mix well and can for future use. * , 



i 



.*.' I' ' 



^.''.-' 
^ 






Memoranda 



231 






A f 



\ 



*sitjiaMkiaHaM« 



/ 



X 




y"» V. 



/ ts^' 



I 
I 

I 



I 



I 



t 



A. 



// 



I i 



I i 



t I 



./ 




^ » 



r? / 



// .'I -w/ ^ 



v**^. 



iff <: ' 



w^ 



1  f 



C 



n 



•U f 



f f 






f * t 



* 

!:'. 







.- { e 






J 



J 












L 



f >».- 






/ A / 



1 V^ 



fir 



i H 



riM 



MjJXT'r- 



HILL &' GRIGGS 

AttomoiQa and Cotmaellora at Law 




T. p. HILL TO BUFFALO 

BURT GRIGGS | WYOMING 

 =* 

MISS CONROY 

Buffalo's if;^"C.^S"al^ Milliner 

*  * AGENT FOR * * * 

GOSSARD CORSETS 

» 

June Plumbing Company 

BUFFALO. WYOMING 
Plumhin^, Heating and Repairing 
* =» 

RICHARD YOUNO, Praddeut _ F. O. S. HESSE, Vk»I>nr 

BERT ORIOOS, Ttuat Officer 

S. B. COCHRAN. Maiuaet 

Wyoming Loan &» Trust Company 

Solicits the patronage of the 
Women of Buffalo and Johnson County 

Banking, Real Estate, Loans and Insurance 



©able TDrinks 

BOILED COFFEE 

Use two taUespoonfuls of coffee to one pint of water. Put 
coffee in pot, mix with it the white of an egg for a large amount; 
less if a less quantity is used. Pour over the coffee one cup of 
cold water and let come to the boiling point; then add the proper 
amount of water, and boil not more than four minutes. Set aside 
to settle. Close the i^out of coffee pot while boiling. 

LEMONADE 

One large lemon or two small ones makes four glasses of 
lemonade. Use one tablespoon of sugar to a glass. 

FRUIT DRINK 

Take any kind of fruit juice and to one quart, add one pound 
of loaf sugar; boil into a syrup, add one and one-half ounces of 
tartaric acid. When cold, bottle and keep well corked. Fill a 
half-pint tumbler three parts full of water, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of the syrup, stir in briskly one-half teaspoon soda. 

SODA WATER 

Mrs. Daniels 

!4 pound tartaric acid 4 pounds white sugar, 

dissolved in 1 pint hot water dissolvfsd in t quart cold 

Whites 6 eggs, beaten water 
1 tablespoon flavoring 

Stir well and bottle for use. Use one tablespoonful of tfie 
soda water, a pinch of soda, and fill tfie glass up with water. 

COCOA 

Mrs. Kttbe 

To one cup of sweet milk, use one teaspoon of cocoa, and one 
teaspoonful of sugar. Add die cocoa and sugar after milk has 
come to a boil. 



234 Table Drinks 



CHOCOLATE 

2 tablespoonfuk grated I pint milk 

chocolate I tablespoon sugar 

Heat tfie milk. Dinolve chocolate in a little wann milk, and 
stir into the boiling milk. Serve with a teaspoon of vdiipped 



GRAPE WINE 

Mrs* riosvrson 

6 quarts fruit 4 quarts water 

Measure the grapes as you pick tfiem from the stems, add 



water and let stand f orty-«ight hours. Then press out juice and 
let stand twenty-four hours to settle. Drain o£F, and add one 
pound of sugar to every quart of juice, and as it worics, fill up 
with extra juice* so as to keep it running over. Let woric several 
weeks, then botde and coric For blackberry ¥rine, use a litde 
less sugar and more water. It will serve for currants and other 
well. 



UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE 

Wash and stem grapes. Place in an enameled kettle widi 
sufficient water to cover them. Cook until tender and drain in 
a bag without pressing over night. Add one cup of sugar to two 
quarts of juice, and boil five minutes; botde, and seal at once. 



CHOKECHERRY WINE 

Mrs. Given 

Put one gallon of cherries into a jar with enough water to 
cover them. Let stand two hours and stir thent After standing 
nine days, strain, and add sugar to taste. Botde and set away 
ready for use. 



TttA^WfiMka 235 



FRUrr PUNCH 

MiM Emily Colgate 

Lemons Creme de menthe 

Sugar Oranges 

Loaf sugar Ice 
Maraschino cherries 

Make plain lemonade — two lemons to one quart of water and 
four tablespoons of granulated sugar. Put two pieces of loaf 
sugar in a glass. Pour on two or three drops of creme de menthe» 
a little shaved ice and two maraschino cherries on a toothpick. 
Add a slice of orange and fill glass with lemonade. 

In plain lemonade crush a little fresh mint» and when serving 
put two or three mint leaves in glass. 




336 



• • • * 



ti 



3fomc ^a6e (Tansies 

MOLASSES CANDY 1 

Mr>. M. W. Bell 

1 cup New Orleans molasses . I tablespoon vinegar 

2 cups granulated sugar I teaspoonhil butter 

Boil ten minutes. Put in buttered pcuis to cool, and pull 
without buttering die hands. 

CREAM TAFFY WITH HONEY 

Miu Msbel S>Ke 

2 cups granulated sugar 2 heaping tablespoons honey 
I cup water Vanilla 

Boil until it makes a hard ball when dropped into cold water. 
Flavor with vanilla and pour on buttered plates. When cool, 
pull. For chocolate taffy, add two squares of Baker's chocolate. 
For strawberry, add red coloring and strawberry flavoring. 

WHITE CREAM TAFFY 

Mrs. Alvin Mather 

3 cups granulated sugar I teaspoonful cream tartar 
1 14 cups water 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Bgil without stirring. Test by plimging the hand first into 
cold water, 6ien into the syrup, then into ctJd water. When it is 
brittle on the fingers, take from fire. Flavor with lemon. When 
cool, pull. 

FUDGE 

I cup white sugar 3 heaping tablespoons grated 

I cup brown sugar chocolate 

I cop milk Butter size of an egg 

Heat slowly to prevent milk from curdling. Boil until it 

makes a finn ball in cold water. Add one cup chopped nuts and 

put in pans to cool. Flavor widi vanilla. 



338 

FUDGE 

Miw Rod* MtBride 

I tableapooQ butter 2 aquarea chocolate 

I cup brovni nigar !4 teaspoon vanilla 

I cup white Bugar Vi cup nut meats, if so dttized . 

Vx cup milk 

Melt butter; mix with the sugar the nulk bnd the molasses /' 
togedier, and stir into the melted butter. Boil two minutev ^ 
Add dte chocolate and boil five minutes, stirring constand^^. '. 
Remove from fire, add nuts and vanilla, and beat until cream^* 
Pour into a buttered pan, mark off into squares, and when cokL 
cut with a sharp knife. 



CREAM NUT FUDGE 

Mrs. Chu. B^ar 

2 cups granulated sugar I cup chopped nuts 

2-3 cnp milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Butter, size of walnut * 

Heat slowly to die boiling point, the milk and sugar i 
granite pan, stirring constantly. When it makes a firm ball w 
dn^ped into cmAA water, add the butter and take from fire. 



NUT FUDGE 
Mr*. W. R. Holt 

1 cup brown sugar I cnp nuta 

I cup vdiite sugar )/anilla 

1 cup cream 

Boil sugar, bodi brown and vdute, with cream, until it will 
form a soft ball when dropped into cold vrater. Take from fire 
and beat a few minutes, then add nuts and flavoring. When 
nearly stiff, pour upon a buttered platter and cut into squares. 



Boil, sttrring briskly, until it hardena in cold wmter. 

TO MAKE FONDANT FOR CREAMS 

3 cups sugar t Vi cups cream or milk 

Boil until it forms a firm ball when tested. Take from stove 
and stir until it becomes creamy. Knead vrith tbe hand for seV' 
eral minutes. This will keep for several days, ^len you may 
knead it again; flavor and color to suit taste and use as the 
Foundation for all creams and nut candies. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Whites of I or more egg* Melted ^ocolate 

Powdered sugar . Butter 

B«at v^tes of one or more eggs, according to amount 
desired. Addpowderedsugaruntilstiff enough to knead; flavor 
to suit taste. Roll in balls and let stand a few minutes. Dipjnto 
melted chocolate, to vdiich has been added a litde butter. V 

PEPPERMINT DROPS 

2 cups sugar Few drops peppermint 

Vz cup water 

Boil sugar and water five minutes; flavor with a few drops 
of peppermint: stir until thick, and drop from a teaspoon on a 
buttered p^>er. ** 

WINTERGREEN WAFERS 

Same as pq^pennint. Use pink coloring, and flavor widt 
winteigreen. 



340 



DATE CREAMS 

ire dte seecU from dates and fill widi cream fondant. 



Jiut before removing fondant from fire, add one pound 
chopped fruit — figs and raioint. Stir until thick and pour on a 
buttered platter. Mark off. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 

Mr>. W. R. Holt 

2 cups brown sugar 2 teaq>ooiu vinegar 

I cup hot water Butter Mze of an egg 

Cook until it hardens like glass when dropped into cold 
water. Pour out on a large platter. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

4 cups brown sugar Butter size of an egg 

I 'A cups grated chocolate 2 tablespoons vinegar 

t !4 cups cold water Vanilla 

Cook briskljr until brittle when dropped in cold water. 
;%ake the kettle but do not stir. Flavor with vanilla. Pour into 
buttered pans, and when partly cool, cut in squares. 

SEA FOAM 

Mr*. Al*i& MatHar 

3 cups brown sugar Beaten whites 2 eggs 

I cup cold water I cup pecans 

t tablespoon vinegar Vanilla 

Boil sugar, water and vinegar hard, and pour into the well 
beaten whites of the eggs. Add pecans and vanilla to flavor. 
Beat, and when hard enough, put in buttered pan and cut into 
squares. 



241 



HICKORY NUT BALLS |r 

I cupful of cream fondant White I egg 

!4 cup chopped hickorynuts Shredded cocoanut 

Into the fondant stir the nuts, make into balls dte size of a ' 
hickory nut, dip into the white of an egg, roll in shredded cocoa- 
nut, and place on a dish to harden. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

Mil. W. R. Holt 

Remove skins from peanuts and place on platter. Melt two 
cups of sugar in frying-pan, adding piece of butter. When all 
melted, pour over buttered platter containing nuts. 

WEDDING CAKE 

Chop raisins, figs', dates and nuts, and knead into the plain 
fondant. Roll out a layer of the plain white fondant, dien a 
layer of the fruit, then a layer of pink or chocolate. Set to 
harden, and cut in slices with a knife. Add a little pink coloring 
to die plain while for pink fondant, and a little melted ch ''.te 
for the chocolate fondant. 

POPCORN BALLS 

Mrs. John G. King 

2 cups sugar I cup water 

I cup strained honey Pinch cream of tartar 

Boil sugar, honey and water until it threads. Pour over 
popped (»>m while hot and work into balls. 



343 



"3Fbo6 In Slcknass 



Recipes obtained from cooking-claM in Bellevue Training 
School for Nuraes. — Lois McKenzie. 



BEEF TEA THREE WAYS 

No. I 

Wipe and chop one-half pound lean beef, put into a bottle, 
add one cup of soft water; let stand thirty minutes. Shake 
occasionally: stand in a kettle of cold water, and let come to a 
boil; cook until color begins to change, thra take from (ire, strain 
through gauze, season and serve. 

No. 2 

fNit one-half pound lean chopped beef into a clean bowl, add 
one cup of cold water and 5M. dilute hydrochloric acid. Stir 
welL Stand in a cold place for two hours, stirring occasionally. 
Strain dtrou^ a coarse sieve or gauze, add salt and serve cold. 

No. 3 

To one-half pound chopped lean beef add one cup of cold 
water; let stand thirty minutes; atir occasionally, put into a 
double boiler and heat slowly. Sdr constantly, remove from 
fire as soon as color begins to change; strain and cool quickly; 
remove any fat there mig^t be wi^ absorbent cotton or soft 
paper. Serve hot or cold. 



CLARIFIED BEEF TEA 

Whip the white of one egg to a stiff frodi. To one cup of 
chilled beef tea (No. 3) add salt and egg whites; whip welL 
Stand and stir over Bre until it boils; simmer without stirring 
five minutes; take from (ire; let stand five minutes and strain 
through gauze. Reh^t if needed. 



344 Food in Sickness 



BEEF TEA AND OATMEAL GRUEL 

Mix one tablespoon oatmeal with two tablespoons of cold 
water; add one cup of beef tea; put into a double boiler and stir 
over fire until tea changes color; strain throus^ a coarse neve 
and serve. 

BARTHLOWS FOOD 

Scald one cup of milk in a double boiler; add two level 
tablespoons of sago; cover and cook twenty minutes, stirring 
occasionally; add one cup of beef tea and take from the fire; add 
the beaten yolk of one raw egg and salt q. s. Strain and use two 
ounces at a feeding. 

MUTTON BROTH 

No. 1 

Wipe one and one-half pounds mutton with a damp cloth, 
removing the scarred skin and all splinters of bone. Cut into 
small pieces. Put in a saucepan, add one quart cold water and 
let stand forty minutes in a cool place. Clean one tablespoon of 
barley as for barley water, add it to the meat, and put over the 
fire, heat slowly and simmer very gently for three hours. Strain 
through a coarse sieve. Season die broth with salt; set aside until 
cold, then remove all fat; reheat as needed. Ask medical advice 
about serving the barley with the broth. 

No. 2 

Prepare meat, water and barley as above; add slice each 
of carrot, onion and white turnip, one fourth of a bay leaf and 
one salt-spoon of celery seed. Heat slowly, simmer diree hours. 
Strain. 

CLAM BROTH 

Wash one dozen hard-shell clams, scrub thoroughly, rinsing 
well to remove sand and dirt; put into a saucepan, add two table* 
spoons of cold water, cover and cook gently until shells open. 
Strain all juice that can be pressed from them dirough several 

of gauze, heat and season with salt and pepper, and 



Food in Sickness 245 



FROZEN CLAM BROTH 

Crush firmly one quart of ice. Have ready coarse salt. 
Place diluted clam juice in a jelly tumbler and cover tightly. In 
the bottom of a pail or saucepan about tvrice the diameter of the 
tumbler, put an inch layer of ice, measuring it by spoonfuls; over 
it sprinkle one-third as much salt; on this place the tumbler and 
fill the outer vessel with ice and salt in layers, using three 
times as much ice as salt; turn the tumbler round by the hand. 
When broth begins to freeze round the sides, open and scrape it 
down with spoon or knife, mixing it well with the more liquid por- 
tion. Freeze as desired. 



SCRAPED BEEF 

Take a thin slice from the upper round of beef; trim off all 
fat and wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Then, with a dull knife 
crape from the surface a little of the red pulp and transfer it to 
a clean saucer or plate; continue this scraping, turning meat over 
frequently, until there remains little except white connective 
tissue. 



SCRAPED BEEF SANDWICHES 

For this use bread at least twenty-four hours old, cut into 
thin slices, trim off all the crust and spread with a thin layer of 
scraped beef; dust with a very little salt; cover with a second 
slice of bread, and with a sharp knife cut into triangles or fingers, 
place on a yrire toaster, and toast on either side. 



PAN BROILED SCRAPED BEEF 

Mold the beef into small marbles. Heat a clean frying-pan 
until it begins to smoke; sprinkle in one-quarter teaspoonful of 
salt, drop in the balls, and shake pan constantly over the fire, 
keeping the balls in motion until they have changed color; trans- 
fer to heated plate and serve quickly. 



346 Food in Sickness 



VICTIMIZED CHOP 

From a thick rib or loin chop, trim off almost all fat, scrape 
any bit of bone and wipe with a damp cloth; prepare two thin 
shoulder chops in the same manner. Enclose the thick chop 
between the two thin ones, and place in a broiler; keep close to 
the fire, and turn every fifteen seconds. Cook from four to six 
minutes, according to thickness of center chop. The outer chops 
will be burned black. Open broiler, transfer center chop to 
heated plate, dust with salt, and serve. 



MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

Scald one cup of milk in a double boiler. Blend one level 
teaspoon of flour to a thin paste with cold milk, turn it into the 
hot milk, and stir until the liquid is smoothly thickened. Cover 
and cook for ten minutes. In the meantime, stew down some 
tomatoes to a thick pulp and rub through a sieve; one-third cup- 
ful will be needed, measuring after sieving; reheat to boiling 
point, add a tiny pinch of soda, one-quarter teaspoon salt, one- 
quarter teaspoon sugar, and if allowed, a dash of pepper. Take 
the milk from the fire; add the tomatoes to it gradually; drop in 
one teaspoon of butter, stir until it is absorbed. Strain, and serve 
immediately. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP 

Scrape and slice one or more carrots. Put into^ saucepan, 
add one-quarter teaspoon of salt, cover with boiling water and 
boil until sufficiendy tender to pass throus^ a sieve, about one- 
third cup after sieving. Scald one cup -of milk in a double boiler; 
add one^evel tablespoon of flour mixed to a thin paste widi cold 
milk, and stir until smoothly thickened. Add the carrot pulp, 
season with salt, simmer five minutes, and rub durough a sieve. 
Reheat, add one teaspoon butter, stir until it is absorbed. Serve 
with croutons. 



Food in Sickness 347 



CORNMEAL GRUEL 

2 tablespoons yellow 1 tablespoon cream 

commeal Vi teaspoon butter 

I pint boiling water I cup cold water 
I lump loaf sugar 

Put the meal into a bowl, add the cold water, and stir well} 
let stand a few seconds, then drain carefully to remove dust and 
dirt Add boiling water, cover closely and simmer thirty minutes. 
Put sugar, cream and butter into a heated bowl, pour gruel over 
this, stir well and serye. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Strip off one-third of the skin, loosen remainder around the 
fruit, sprinkle with one teaspoon of sugar, and one-half teaspoon 
lemon juice; lay on flat pan and bake in quick oven until soft. 
Can add sherry if desired. 

SALPICON OF FRurr 

Take such fruits as are in season, choosing those which will 
harmonize in flavor and color; prepare each as for the table, 
cutting diem into small pieces; sprinkle with orange or lemon 
juice made quite sweet with simple syrup. Wine or small spoon* 
ful of cordial may be added if desired. Ice thoroughly and serve 
in glass, cup or orange shell. 

APPLE SNOW 

Whip, core, pare and steam a large tart apple, press through 
a sieve and set aside until chilled, then add two tablespoons of 
sugar, one teaspoon of lemon juice; v^iip the white of one egg 
to a stiff froth, add apple, a spoonful at a time, and whip mixture 
until stiff. Serve at once. 

FLAX LEMONADE 

Put two tablespoons of flaxseed in a double boiler, add one 
pint boiling water, cover, and keep warm for two hours. Strain 
throu^ gauze and add sjrrup and lemon juice to taste. Serve 
hot or cold. 



348 Food in Sickness 



LEMONADE 

AlwajTS wash and scrape lemon before using. Put one-half 
cupful of sugar in a small saucepan, add one-half cup of boiling 
water, stir over fire until sugar is dissolved; boil five minutes, 
chill, and botde for use. Cut lemon in half, taking a thin slice 
from the center; squeeze juice carefully that oil of lemon rind 
may not mix with die juice; put two tablespoons of juice in a 
tumbler, add one and one-half teaspoonfuls of the syrup and fill 
the glass with iced water, drop in the reserved slice. Or — ^pare 
off rind, cut lemon in slices and pour over one and one-quarter 
cupfuls boiling water, cover, and let stand until cold. Strain and 
add tyrup to taste. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

Cover one-quarter cupful of moss with cold water; let soak 
thirty minutes. Drain and pick over; place in double boiler, add 
one and one-quarter cups cold water; cook for thirty minutes, 
and strain through gauze. Add lemon juice and syrup to taste 
and serve hot. 

APPLE WATER 

Wipe and core a tart apple; do not peel; stand in a small 
dish, fill core with granulated sugar, add two tablespoonfuls of 
hot water, bake in a moderately hot oven until tender, adding 
more water if necessary. Mash with a fork or spoon, pour over it 
a half cup of boiling water, cover, and let stand twenty minutes. 
Strain through gauze and add lemon juice to taste. 

CINNAMON WATER 

In a small saucepan put one-half ounce of finely broken 
stick cinnamon, add one cup of boiling water. Cover, sinuner 
thirty minutes, strain and serve. 

TOAST WATER 

Cut two thin slices of stale bread, place in an oven until dry 
and brown all through; break fine; pour over one cup of boiling 
water, cover, and let stand one hour. Strain durougfa gauase, 
, squeezing slighdy. Add pinch of salt 



Food in Sickness 249 



JELLY WATER 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of any acid jelly with a fork or egg 
beater, add one-half cup of iced water, and serve. Syrup or 
lemon juice added if desired, or ice chopped in tiny bits. 



KOUMYSS 

Warm one quart of milk to blood heat; add one tablespoon 
of syrup. In two tablespoons of the milk, dissolve one-sixth of 
yeast cake, stir all together, put in bottles, cork and tie down ; let 
stand twelve hours in a warm room; lay bottles on their sides in 
a cold place for at least twelve hours longer. 



STERILIZED MILK 

Put the milk into clean bottles, stopper each with cotton 
batting; place in wire basket in cold water, and heat to 167 
degrees Fahrenheit, and keep at same temperature one hour. 
Cool quickly and keep on ice. 

EGG LEMONADE 

Beat one egg until light, add three tablespoonfuls of iced 
water, one tablespoon syrup, add two tablespoons of lemon juice. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of finely crushed ice in a tumbler and 
strain the mixture over it. 

ORANGE ALBUMIN 

Beat the white of one egg until slightly frothy; add four 
tablespoons of orange juice and one teaspoon of syrup and strain 
over two tablespoonfuls of finely crushed ice. 

MILK AND ALBUMIN 

In a preserve jar with tightly fitted cover put one-half cup of 
milk, a pinch of salt and the unbeaten white of one egg; fasten 
down the cover and shake steadily for at least five minutes, then 
strain into a tumbler. 



! 



mm^^^ 



250 Food in Sickness 



MILK PUNCH 

To one-half cup of icecl milk add one tablespoon of syrup, 
a pinch of salt and one tablespoon of brandy or sherry; shake in 
a botde until frothy. 

FISH 

Mrs. Lois M. Bennett, Sheridan 

A nice way to cook mountain trout (or an invalid. Wrap in 
cheese cloth and drop into boiling water to which has been added 
a bay leaf » salt and few whole peppers. Boil until tender — about 
ten minutes. Serve on hot plate with melted butter. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. 

CREAMED FISH 

Mrs. Lois M. Bennett, Sheridan 

!4 cup of cold fish I tablespoon flour 

I tablespoon butter Vi cup of milk 

Cream butter and flour and add milk. Cook until smooth. 
Season with a litde onion juice, salt and pepper. Add fish and 
serve. 

BARLEY WATER 

Put two tablespoonfuls of fine barley in a saucepan, cover 
with boiling water, stir over the fire for two minutes. Drain well 
and cover with two quarts of boiling water and simmer two hours, 
or until reduced one-half. Strain and chill. 



EGG-NOG 

Separate white and yolk of one egg, beat white until dry and 
the yolk until thick; to yolk add two teaspoons of sjrrup, one 
tablespoon of liquor and diree-quarters cup of iced milk. Strain; 
add stiffly beaten white, put into a glass and add grating of 
nutmeg. 

LEMON WHEY 

Put one-half cup of milk in a double boiler, add two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice .and cook until die ¥rhey separates. 
Strain through gauze and serve cold. 



Memoranda 251 



Mti5ceUdneou5 



HAIR SHAMPOO 

Mr*. Kub« 

2 iive-cent bars caatile aoap I tablespooD powdered borax 

I pint bay rum 20 grains binilphate quinine 

Shave soap and dissolve in two quarts water; add borax and 

quinine while boiling hot, and stir thorou^ily. Stirr in bay rum 

and set aside to cool. Put in jars or bottles. 

HAND LOTION 

Mia. Ktib« 
ihol 1 cents rose water 

serine 5 cents gum tragacanth 

mm I pint warm water 

r, mix gum in, and let stand over nii^t. In mom- 
d mix odker ingredients. Bottle ready for use. 

CAMPHOR ICE 

IS hot mutton suet 1 tablespoon powdered 

I glycerine camphor 

1 olive oil 

xun stove and stir until cold. Pack in small boxes. 

TO CLEAN WINDOW GLASS 

low glass with hot sharp vinegar to remove mortar 

dowB with warm water, to which has been added 
iful of kerosene. The result is an excellent polish. 

I PREVENT MOTHS IN CARPETS 

edge of the floor with strong borax water; turn 
I of the carpet aqd sprinkle black pepper around 



«■»«« 



Miscellaneous 



253 



TO SET COLOR IN CAUCO 

One teaspoon of sugar of lead in a pail of water. Soak for 
two hours in solution before washing, or soak in strong salt water 
before washing. 

TO REMOVE TAR 

For washable goods, rub the spot first with lard, then with 
turpentine before putting it into the wash. For unwashable 
goods, rub with chloroform. 

TO CLEAN BLACK KID 

Add a few drops of ink to a teaspoon of salad oil, rub on the 
leather and dry in the sun. 



TO REMOVE WHITE SPOTS FROM FURNITURE 

Rub with spirits of camphor. 










'tit C'^^^^C^il't 



V 



t'f y<l'^^A'.</^ 



-t 







/ I 






rjifU. 



J.'J' 



'., tAni.i£i ' .^<i^(J 



r 



t- 









FOR COLORINC AT^OME 
B for cotton or yroaU Copperas 
iau of potash, I/j oz.. sulphuric 

by weight. Make a solution of 
water sufficient to cover, and 
loil- Soak ihe goods th.jroughlj/ 
.ion ; then dissolve the prussiate 
II anotlier vessel of water, at a 
simply; add the sulphune acid, 

for a moment and immediately 
goods from the copperas to tins 
)ip hack and forth until -darK 

for Hue. Take 1 otance Vst 
e; f4 ounce oxalic acid. Dis- 
-id in a pint bottle half ftdl ot 
Ihe blue, shake well and fill up 
rake hot water enough to coyer 
to it from the bottle tintil^ the 
le is obtained. Boil goods m it 
f hour. 

or colton or wool. Sugar of 
liehromateofpotash, 4oz. Dis- 
parate vessels; soak the cloth 
in the lead solution, then diT" 
h solution. Dip bick and forth. 

ifiicient amount for five potimi.=- 

BUelt for cotton. Extract logwood 7 
„. copperas, 5 oi. Dissolve the logwood 
?.ni coPP""s in separate vessels each -n 
^",er sntfieient to cover the goods; bring 
r^th 10 a boi\- Dip cloth in the coppera, 
*'.?1 thoroughly soaked, then dip in the log 
"'lod oT-Llf hour. Contimie to d.p back 
^"'^ forth from copperas to '^ewood till the 
^^icr is dark enough; then boil m the log- 
"'^J.od "tie-half honr. dram out and «ash m 
Y^om stids. This amount wil! color five 
^* ,,nds. For woolen goods "s* ^. °^' °* 
{^hromate ot potash in place of the cop- 

P^i^ilow for cotton or wool. Fustic chips. 
. Tbs- alum. I lb Mix together and steep 
5 * -1 the strength is out (from one-h<ilf 
'■■^^Jine hour>, then boil the P'^o^s in the 
\^ „td t.ntil the desired shade is obtained, 
t'ii»s "'" ^o'*"" ^''^ pounds. 

^o color green. First dye yellow, allow 
^7 e'^oAs to become dry or nearly so, then 
'" f through blue dye. 

^is Take muriate of tin. 3 oz.. mc 
P"^d ! lb. Add the tin to water enough 
'^■''^over the goods; put in the goods and 
t". '^° eli for one hotir. Put the mc wood ni 
s^'^iean kettle with sufficient water and 
^Jiitiis hot as the h.nd can b"r for one- 









tiffl 










