Nelson ' s 



Pop Corn Recipes 



( 




Wmk 




\ 



©<§>K1]?5 



FOR POPPING 

PACKED BY 

Sam. Nelson Jfc Co. 

GRINNELL.IOWA. 



Grinnell . 



Iowa 



••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••«..•..•..•. ••..•..•.»'< 



Pop Com Recipes 

By 

Mary Hamilton Talbott 



Copyrighted IQ16, by 

SAM NELSON, JR., COMPANY 

Grinnell, Ionxa 



I 

t I 

f 

• 

! ! 

! ! 

•C ! 

* f 

f T 



TX7 c f 

3 



M 24 1916 
©CI.A426087 



"V 



I. 



• a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a ,. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .. a .» <> » 



! TO THE READER 

i 

? Dear Madam: 

In presenting you this little booklet we have 

| made an effort to give you something that 

| would be of daily use in the home. In purchas- 

• ing these recipes we feel that we have secured 

| the same from the best known recipe writer, 

4 Mrs. Mary Hamilton Talbott. Her recipes are 

f known from coast to coast, as she is a well- 

| known recipe writer for the leading periodicals. 

Nelson's Corn for Popping is a corn of the 

? highest popping test, and is the pick of Iowa's 

i best of the Amber Rice Variety. It is stored in 

I absolutely mouse and rat proof cribs, and great 

I care is taken in the packing of the same. 



f Pop corn has generally been known as pop | 

? corn, and we will say that there are as many f 

| grades of pop corn as there is of rice or coffee | 

f and we know that in selecting this variety we ? 

• have selected not only a corn of the highest J 

• popping test, but of a superior eating quality • 
| and a corn that is free from that hard and ob- f 
! jectionable center found in most grades of pop | 
f corn. * 
I f 
i You will find the recipes of great use in pre- ? 

• paring the dainty dishes for that pleasant even- i 
| ing. ! 

1 It will pay you to insist upon Nelson's 10c per | 

f pound package. f 

♦'••••••••••••"••••••••••"•"••••"••••"•"•"•"••••"•"••••"••••"•••••••"•••••••••••■•••••.•..#.J5 



♦♦♦••"••••"•"•"•••••••••••••"••••••••••••••••••••••«••••••••••••••.•.•••.•-.•«•..•..•.••»•..•..•.».•» 

♦♦ ♦*♦ 

• • 

f EVERYDAY USES OF NELSON'S POP CORN. I 

| Pop corn has long been looked upon as a con- ; 

J fection, and few people have realized its possi- f 

? bilities in cookery. It has, however, a recog- • 

! nized food value containing as high a percent- | 

I age of protein — or body building material — as f 

f matured sweet corn, and its fuel value a pound ? 

i is equally as great. It should, therefore, be | 

I used frequently in every home. 

| I 

! BREAKFAST DISHES. I 

i i 

f Pop corn may be served either as a hot or f 

i cold cereal. If the former way is desired, cover | 

| the popped kernels — and none pop better than ? 

f Nelson's — with cold water and allow them to ? 

• i 

• soak over night; then cook them in milk in the • 
I morning and serve with sugar and cream. A | 
| very tasty accompaniment to this may be made | 
? by washing some dates; cut them up and put * 
i them in a saucepan with just enough water to i 
| cover and allow them to simmer for five min- | 
f utes, then drain and place around the hot pop f 
| corn, or mix them with it. Stewed apples, '• 
| prunes, plumped ' raisins, fruit juice, or any | 
? kind of plain fruit also make a nice addition to f 
f pop corn served as a cereal. • 

• An unusual but delicious way to serve Nel- i 
| son's corn, popped, as a cereal is to combine it | 



I ; 

f with cheese, one of the varieties which is mild f 

| in flavor and soft in texture. When the popped f 

I corn is cooked, just before removing from the | 

| stove stir in a cupful of grated cheese and a | 

? little butter and salt, allow to melt and become | 

! blended with the pop corn, then serve. This is • 



* eaten without cream and sugar. ; 

I 

! Pop Corn Omelet. — Nelson's pop corn makes a £ 

• delicious addition to the breakfast omelet. Put i 
? enough popped corn through the meat grinder | 
| to make a cupful and add to it a quarter of a f 

• 



i cupful of milk, allow it to soak a few minutes 

| then add two well-beaten eggs (whipped separ 

? ately), half a teaspoonful of salt, a few grains | 

? of paprika and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, j 

| Melt one tablespoonful of butter in an omelet i 

f pan, turn in the mixture and cook with moder- | 

£ ate heat until firm. Fold, turn out upon a hot | 

| platter and garnish with crisp bacon and a gen- | 

1 erous sprinkling of the unground popped corn. ; 



Pop Corn Hash. — Chop fine some cold boiled | 

£ potatoes and any other vegetables desired that f 

| may be on hand. Put them into a buttered fry- i 

| ing pan, heat quickly and thoroughly, and salt | 

? to taste. Then add a large spoonful of ground, | 

I popped corn (Nelson's is the best for popping), j 

| for each person to be served. When heated | 

f thoroughly, dish and serve. I 

t j 



Pop Corn Scrapple. — Add to one cupful of f 

hominy and two cupsful of cornmeal enough ? 

boiling water to cook thoroughly in a double ! 

boiler until of the consistency for frying. Take ? 

from the fire and stir in two heaping cupsful £ 

of popped and ground corn — Nelson's corn i 

makes crisp and flaky kernels — then pour into | 

buttered pans and when cold slice and fry. This | 

is especially good on a cold, snappy morning. • 

• 

Pop Corn and Bacon. — Just before the morn- • 

ing bacon, or sausage, is altogether cooked, add i 

to the grease a generous handful of Nelson's | 

corn when popped; allow it to brown and serve f 

with the meat. It adds a delicious, nutty flavor. • 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES. i 

Pop Corn Roast. — Mix together two cupsful of I 
bread crumbs, one-half a cupful of chopped nut | 
meats and of popped and ground corn — Nelson's £ 
Pop Corn for Popping — half a cupful each of hot ? 
water and melted butter, one teaspoonful of ! 
onion juice, one teaspoonful of tomato catsup, ? 
one and one-half teaspoonsful of salt, one salt- f 
spoonful of pepper and one beaten egg. When i 
mixed thoroughly put into buttered mold and 
bake about an hour. Cover the first part of the 
time, then baste three times with hot butter. 
Turn into a hot dish, sprinkle with popped corn 
and serve with a brown sauce. 



••••••••••••••••••••• 



Pop Corn Cutlet. — Mix two cupsful of bread 
crumbs, two cupsful of popped and ground corn 
— Nelson's corn gives a nutty flavor — one cupful 
of milk or cream, two eggs, and salt and pepper 
to taste; mold into cutlet form, flour and fry in 
hot butter as you do veal cutlet. Garnish with 
chopped parsley and tomato sauce. 

Pop Corn Rolls. — To one tablespoonful of but- 
ter and one teaspoonful of peanut butter add 

two and one-half tablespoonsful of hot water. | 

When the butters are melted stir into them one f 

cupful of finely ground, popped corn (Nelson's ? 

corn always pops) and a small quantity of f 

bread crumbs, enough to make a paste which | 

can be molded with the hands into small cakes, f 

Fry these in butter until a delicate brown and • 

serve with tomato sauce. These make a dainty i 

luncheon or supper dish. \ 



SOUP AND STUFFING. 

A very delicious soup may be made by cook- 
ing a can of peas in a quart of milk until soft, 
press through a sieve to remove outer covering 
of peas, add a. tablespoonful of onion juice, a 
tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste, 
and a good handful of Nelson's corn when pop- 
ped, mixed with a few bread crumbs. After 
this has cooked up well, serve and add a tea- 



spoonful of whole, popped grains to each plate- 
ful of soup. Corn may be used instead of the 
peas, and an equally good soup will result. 

stuffing For Foivl or Meats. — Soak in cold 
water half a loaf of crumbed bread and an 
equal bulk of Nelson's corn (after it is popped) 
until soft; squeeze and add a slice of onion, a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and two well-beaten eggs. Put this 
in a pan with some butter and put in the oven 
long enough to brown slightly, stirring often, 
then use. 

WITH VEGETABLES. 

Parsnips and Pop Corn. — Wash, scrape and 
slice thin two good-sized parsnips and cook 
them until perfectly tender in two quarts of 
water. When they are nearly done add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and when altogether done a 
tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth with a lit- 
tle cold water. Stir well and let boil until the 
flour is cooked, then stir in half a cupful of 
popped and ground corn — Nelson's pop corn is 
the best that grows — let boil up once or twice, 
or until the corn is hot and serve. 

Pop Corn With Turnips or Carrots. — Mashed 
turnips or carrots can be made more tasty by 



♦,♦ -..©-•••o-s--»--e--s-«--f-o- 



.*. . 9 "»-0. ...,»..». .0"«. «3. .»..(>• 



stirring in a cupful of Nelson's corn, popped 
and ground. 

Macaroni and Pop Corn. — Cook one cupful of 
macaroni, broken into inch lengths, in boiling 
salted water until tender; drain and pour cold 
water through it to separate the pieces. Then 
add cream sauce made with four tablespoonsful 
of flour, the same quantity of tutter, salt and 
pepper to taste, and a cupful of milk; add two 
cupsful of Nelson"s corn, after it is popped and 
ground. Pour into a buttered baking dish, cover 
with buttered crumbs and a little grated cheese 
and bake until a golden brown. 

Potato and Pop Corn Balls. — Mix two cupsful 
of hot mashed potatoes, one teaspoonful of 
chopped onion, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, two tablespoonsful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, then shape theih into small 
balls, open the center and put in some popped 
corn — Nelson's makes the crisp and flaky grains 
— place on a buttered dish and cook in a mod- 
erate oven a quarter of an hour, sprinkle ground 
popped corn over them before removing from 
the oven, and serve alone or with tomato sauce. 

Stuffing For Onions. — Cook together for five 
minutes one tablespoonful of bread crumbs, five 
tablespoonsful of ground, popped corn (Nelson's 



I corn for popping), two tablespoonsful of butter, 

| two tablespoonsful of chopped parsley, salt and 

f pepper to taste and a dash of paprika. Take 

] from the fire and add one beaten egg. Remove 

I the centers from onions, fill with this mixture 

i and take. 



SALADS. 

• 

Cut bananas into halves, scoop out the cen- | 

ters of each and till with Nelson's corn (after f 

it is popped and ground), and serve on lettuce j 

with mayonnaise dressing. \ 

Mix together one cupful of chopped celery, | 

one cupful of raisins and one cupful of popped | 

and rolled corn (Nelson's gives a nutty taste) j 

and serve on lettuce or any salad green with $ 

mayonnaise dressing. i 

Mix together one pint of apples cut into small j 

matchlike pieces, half a pint of pop corn, after | 

it is popped and rolled (Nelsons corn pops f 

best), and the same quantity of chopped celery, j 

Dress with boiled dressing and serve in apple | 
cups or on lettuce leaves. 

Cut into thin slices four good sized boiled 

white potatoes and add to them the crisp white 

I portion of two bunches of celery, chopped, and 

t two and one-half cupsful of Nelson's corn, after 

: it has been popped and ground, sprinkle with 



i 



salt and pepper, mix with half a pint of may- 
onnaise and just before serving cover the salad 
with half a pint of whipped cream. 

CANAPES. 

Cut bread into any shape and fry it in deep 
fat. Mix chopped olives and Nelson's corn 
(popped) with mayonnaise and spread on the 
fried bread. 

Rub the yolks of hard-boiled eggs to a paste 
and add an equal quantity of sardines and Nel- 
son's pop corn (popped and ground.) Moisten 
with lemon juice and serve on rounds of toast. 

SANDWICHES. 

Put half a pint of Nelson's corn, popped, 
through the grinder and mix it with six boned 
sardines, a little salt and pepper and enough to- 
mato catsup, or strained tomato juice, to form 
a paste. Spread on hot buttered toast, sprinkle 
with grated cheese and serve at once. 

Make a paste of cream cheese and Nelson's 
corn, popped and ground, and spread it on a 
slice of brown bread, cover the top with raisins, 
currants or chopped figs and cover this with 
another slice of buttered bread. This makes a 
wholesome sandwich for the lunch box. 



w ••>•••••.••>••••••< 



..«..•..•..•..•..•. 



•..>..»-••■•••♦.♦ 



For Sunday night supper when a light but 
! nutritious bill of fare is wanted: Chop fine a 
t cupful of raisins and mix them with a cupful 
| of Nelson's corn, after it has been popped and 
? rolled; blend this with the white of an, egg, 
! well whipped and seasoned with a pinch of salt. 
Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 
Do not prepare until just before serving time. 

A dainty sweet sandwich is made by mixing- 
strained honey with Nelson's corn, popped and 
ground, and mashed ripe bananas and placing 
between slices of buttered bread. 

Remove the stones from dates and fill the 
cavities with Neufchatel cheese into which 
ground, popped corn— Nelson's corn for popping 
— has been worked. Serve with salted crack- 
ers. This is a delicious novelty for luncheon. 

DESERTS. 

Poij Com Cream Pudding. — Soak a quarter of 
a box of gelatine in a quarter of a cupful of cold 
water. Make a custard of two cupsful of milk, 
three egg yolks, a third of a cupful of sugar 
and a third of a teaspoonful of salt; add the 
gelatine and strain into a pan set in cold water. 
Stir in two-thirds of a cupful of Nelson's corn, 
popped and ground, and a teaspoonful of al- 
mond extract, stirring until it begins to thicken. 



I { 

? Then add the stiffly whipped whites of three ! 

• eggs, mould, chill and serve garnished with the • 

| whole grains of popped corn. Whipped cream i 
may be served with this pudding. 



f Pop Corn Custard. — Heat one quart of milk * 

i in a double boiler, when warm stir in the beat- • 

| en yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonsful of | 

f granulated sugar and a scant tablespoonful of ? 

4 corn starch (mixed with a little cold water.) 4 

| When this thickens add three-fourths of a cup- ! 

T ful of Nelson's corn, after it is popped and | 

f ground, and a teaspoonful of almond extract, f 

4 When cold cover with a meringue, made by 4 

1 whipping the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth I 

| and adding slowly eight teaspoonsful of powder- | 

• ed sugar and a few spoonsful of tart jelly, pre- f 

• • 
i ferably currant. i 
4 f 

Prune and Pop Corn Pudding. — Pick over and ? 

4 wash half a pound of prunes and soak them an • 

| hour in two cupsful of cold water, boil until ! 

? soft and remove the stones, being careful to re- | 

f tain all the meat of the prunes; add to them f 

• one cupful of sugar, a small piece of stick cin- ? 
| namon, one and a third cupsful of boiling water | 
? and let them simmer about ten minutes. Add ! 

• one-third of a cupful of corn starch diluted with f 

• • 
i enough water to make it pour easily and cook • 

I five minutes. Remove the cinnamon, add a I 



.•..•«•»•"••••••••♦.♦ 



• 

tablespoonful of lemon juice, the stiffly beaten | 

whites of two eggs and half a cupful of Nelson's f 

corn, after it is popped and ground, mould, chill | 

and serve with plain or whipped cream. ? 

f 

Quickly Prepared Desert. — A dainty and eas- | 

ily prepared desert is made by soaking a cupful ? 
of raisins in warm water until they are well | 
plumped, drain them and mix them with a cup- 
ful of Nelson's corn, after it is popped and 
ground. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

Pop Corn Macaroons. — Mix half a cupful of 
popped and rolled corn (Nelson's is the best), 
half a package of chopped raisins, one cupful 
of powdered sugar, the whites of two eggs and 
a tablespoonful of flour together and drop on 
greased brown paper by tablespoonsful and bake 
in a moderate oven until light brown. 

Pop Com Wafers.— Cream together half a cup- 
ful of granulated sugar and a quarter of a cup- 
ful of butter ; add one tablespoonful of milk, one 
well-beaten egg, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt, and one cupful of pop corn, popped and 
ground,— Nelson's makes crisp and flaky ker- 
nels. Mix into this one and one-half cupsful of 
pastry flour into which one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder has been sifted, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of almond extract. Roll thin, cut into small 



rounds, or fancy shapes, and bake. These are 
nice for the afternoon tea table or the kiddies' 
lunch box. 



con:e when Nelson's corn is popped. 

Pop Corn and Baked Ajjjiles. — Peel and core 
tart apples, scoop out the centers and fill with 
a mixture of Nelson's corn, popped and ground, 



• 



Pop Corn Trifle. — Place cut up marshmallows ? 

| in a dish set in boiling water and when they • 

| are melted cover saltines with about an inch of i 

I the mixture, then sprinkle over the top, very ? 

• thick, Nelson's corn, popped and rolled; set in f 
i a moderate oven until a delicate brown. • 

| Pop Corn Marguerites. — Make a paste of Nel- \ 

f son's corn, popped and ground, and chopped ? 

• raisins, mixed with boiled icing. Spread on • 
| vanilla wafers or crackers and put in the oven | 
f long enough to brown. ? 



• Pop Corn Pie. — Cream well together one large '• 
I cupful of granulated sugar, one heaping table- I 
! spoonful of butter and when very light add the ! 

• well-beaten yolks of three eggs, one cupful of ? 
i molasses and one teaspconful of grated nutmeg i 
| and lastly the stiffly whipped whites of the | 
| eggs. Put this mixture into pans lined with a f 
4 rich crust ; before removing from the oven cover • 
i the top thickly with the snowy kernels which i 



• 



>•••••••••••••••*;» 



7 

f chopped raisins and a little lemon peel. Place | 

? in a baking dish and pour over them half a ? 

| cupful of water and dust with granulated sugar, i 

f Bake in a slow oven until tender, sprinkle with | 

f soft bread crumbs and sugar, bake ten minutes | 

• more and serve hot with cream or a thin cus- • 

I tard. • 



T 




CANDIES. f 

• 

Pop Corn Fudge.— Boil together two cupsful | 

of sugar, half a cupful of maple syrup, half a f 

cupful of water and a third of a teaspoonful of i 

salt until they will form a soft ball when dropped | 

into cold w^ater. Beat this slowly into the stiffly | 

beaten whites of two eggs; when smooth, add | 

two and one-half cupsful of corn, popped and | 



.••••»•..•»•••••< 



ground — Nelson's gives the nutty flavor. Pour 
into buttered pans and mark when cool. 

Molasses Pop Corn Candy. — Boil together in a 
granite pan one pint of molasses, one cupful of 
brown sugar, a tablespoonful of butter, and two 
tablespoonsful of vinegar until it becomes brit- 





tle when dropped into cold water. Just before 
removing from the fire add a large pinch of 
salt, a large cupful of Nelson's corn, popped, and 
half a teaspoonful of almond extract. Pour 
into buttered tins and mark into squares before 
it is cold. 

Honey Pop Corn Balls. — Boil one cupful of 
strained honey until it will form a soft ball 



••••••••••••••••i 



when dropped into cold water. Have ready a 
good sized bowl of Nelson's corn, popped, pour 
the honey over it, mould the corn into balls and 
stand them on greased paper. A cupful of sugar 
and half a cupful of water may be boiled to a 
syrup and used in the same way. 

Chocolate Pop Corn. — Cook together one cup- 
ful of sugar, a quarter of a cupful of syrup, 
half a cupful of water and two ounces of grated 
chocolate together until it hardens when drop- 
ped into cold water. Pour this over two quarts 
of Nelson's fluffy popped corn kernels, stir well 
with a fork in order to cover all the grains. 

Dates Stuffed With Pop Corn.— Cut open the 
dates, remove the pits and fill the cavities with 
Nelson's corn, popped and ground, mixed with 
a little strained honey. Press the edges of the 
dates together and roll in confectioner's sugar. 



■•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••"••••••••••"•"•"••••• ••«»•••••• ••• •-•• ••••••••••••••• ♦,* 

Deae Friends: • 

The usefulness of a recipe book for sugges- | 

tions in time of need prompts our placing this | 

little pamphlet in your possession with the f 
compliments of the Sam Nelson, Jr., Co. 

It is not generally recognized, we believe, | 

how nutritious, wholesome and appetizing Pop t 

Corn may be made in conjunction with various ? 

dishes for regular meals, as well as for enter- ! 

tainment, for an evening by the fireside, or | 

upon the occasion of "company" to whom you f 

wish to present something new, or at least un- f 

usual. | 

Nelson's Corn for Popping is the pick of i 

Iowa's fields — the Amber Rice variety — special- | 

ly selected, carefully cultured and matured — * 

and given our most careful inspection before ? 

boxing for the trade. ! 

No better Pop Corn can be had, and we be- ? 

speak for Nelson's Corn your kind reception and f 

trial. We are anxious to have our corn prove i 

its merits to you, and we present this booklet | 

as a means to that end. ! 

Very sincerely yours, f 

SAM NELSON, JR., CO., I 

Grinnell, Iowa. ? 

! * 

i t 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 636 511 5 



