WHOLESOME G3DKING 



715 



13 



VfithoutWaste 




WHOLESOME COOKING 



A PRACTICAL BOOK FOR 
A PRACTICAL COOK 



Two hundred well-tested recipes 
selected hy Ethel Harris 



RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



-t-M lS 






Copyright 1916 

BY 

Rand McNally & Co. 



/ 

FEB 18 1916 



&CI.A420827 

*>V4 I ^ 



SOUPS 



General Directions 

Lean beef, mutton, or veal is the basis of all good rich soups, but fresL 
bones and those from cooked meat and poultry, with trimmings of meats and 
odds and ends of vegetables, cooked or raw, make very good stock where econ- 
omy is desired. 

In seasoning soup the general rule is to use, for every quart of water used to 
cover the meat, a teaspoonful of salt, one of pepper, a quarter teaspoonful of 
celery salt, a little parsley, and half a pint of vegetables. In making stock it 
is a safe rule to use a quart of water to every pound of bones. Soup should 
always be boiled slowly. The stock will probably be reduced nearly one-half 
by cooking, and may be diluted for the table. Strain through the colander, 
and put aside to let the fat harden before removing it. To color soups brown, 
add a tablespoonful of caramel (browned sugar) to a pint of stock. Clear soups 
are dinner soups; cream soups are more appropriate for luncheons. Part beef 
and veal, or mutton, combined makes a better flavored stock than beef alone. 

A stock stronger and more palatable than the common one we call a 
consomme, and it serves as the foundation of soup for a formal dinner. The 
following directions are intended only for a very rich soup. 



RICH CONSOMME 

A veal shank weighing about two pounds, 
five pounds of beef and bones, a chicken (a 
hen will do), two carrots, one onion, half a 
turnip, one 6talk of celery, three quarts of 
water, and salt and pepper to taste. 

Put the beef and veal in the pot with the 
cold water and boil slowly, skimming until 
clear. After half an hour's boiling add the 
vegetables, and let boil for two hours; then 
take the veal out of the pot, as all the juices 
will have been extracted from it, put in the 
fowl, and let boil slowly for three hours more. 
Skim again, then remove from the fire. After 
it has cooled, take off any fat that has come 
to the top of the stock. 

A more economical consomme, and one 
quite good enough for everyday purposes, 
is made as follows. 

CLEAR SOUP or CONSOMME' 

Take a good-sized shank of beef, chopped 
in several pieces ; put it into a very large pot 
or divide it and put it into two smaller 
pots. Cover it well with cold water, leav- 
ing just room enough to let it boil. Aa soon 



as it comes to a boil set it back on the stove 
so that it will boil very slowly, but keep it 
boiling. After it has boiled three hours have 
ready a couple of turnips, three or four carrots, 
three large onions sliced, and two heads of 
celery. After washing these well, add them 
to the pot or pots. Let the stock boil slowly 
for three hours more and then strain through 
a colander and put away to cool until the 
next day. When it is quite cold, and the fat 
has risen to the top, skim it off, add pepper and 
salt to taste, about half a grated nutmeg, a 
tablespoonful each of mushroom and anchovy 
sauce, and tomato catchup; put it all back on 
the stove in a clean pot, and add the whites 
of three eggs well beaten. Do not skim. 
Let it boil five minutes, set aside a moment, 
then strain through a cloth laid in a sieve. 
This will keep for days. Heat it as you need 
it, and be sure that it is served very hot. 

The fat skimmed from the stock is excel- 
lent for frying potatoes. 

DRIED BEAN SOUP 

Soak one quart of beans over night in 
enough water to cover them well; in the 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



morning drain them and put them on the 
stove with four quarts of cold water and a 
quarter of a pound of salt pork, cut in very- 
small pieces. Boil slowly for three hours, 
keeping the pot covered. If soft enough at 
the end of that time, mash through a colander; 
if the water has boiled away too much, add a 
little before straining. Put in a teaspoonful 
of salt and a half teaspoonful of pepper, and 
boil for ten minutes more. This is a very 
economical as well as an excellent soup, 
particularly adapted for winter use. 

CANNED CORN SOUP 

Drain a can of corn, chop it fine in a wooden 
chopping bowl, add a quart of boiling water, 
and cook for one hour, letting it simmer. 
Rub through a colander, leaving the husks 
behind; return to the fire with the water in 
which it has been boiled; season with half 
a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter teaspoonful 
of pepper, and one tablespoonful of tomato 
catchup, boil gently for three minutes, and 
stir in three tablespoonfuls of butter which 
has been rolled in one tablespoonful of flour. 
Have ready in another pot a quart of milk 
which has just come to the boil. Pour it over 
two eggs which have been previously beaten. 
Add milk and eggs to the soup, simmer for one 
minute, stirring all the time, take up, and 
serve very hot. The eggs may be omitted 
and flour used to thicken the soup, if economy 
is desired. In this case, mix two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour to a smooth paste in a cup of 
cold water before putting it in the soup. 

POTATO SOUP 

Boil and mash ten medium-sized potatoes, 
seasoning with a teaspoonful of salt and pep- 
per. Add enough milk to enable the potatoes 
to be pressed through a sieve. Then add a 
quart of milk in which an onion has been 
scalded, remove the onion, and boil all the 
other ingredients together for one minute. 
Put a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley 
in the bottom of the tureen, pour in the soup, 
and serve. 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP 

Heat half a can of tomatoes and half a cup 
of water, putting in half a teaspoonful of 



soda, and keep on the stove until soft. Mix 
three tablespoonfuls of flour or cornstarch 
with enough milk to make a smooth thin 
batter; add a piece of butter half the size 
of an egg; season with a teaspoonful of salt, 
a quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of mushroom catchup. Add one 
quart of morning's milk, pouring slowly over 
the tomatoes and stirring constantly until 
the soup thickens; strain at once through 
a sieve. Heat in a double boiler before 
serving. If the milk is not morning's milk, 
it is liable to curdle. 

OYSTER SOUP 

Put a quart of milk into a double boiler. 
When it is scalding hot add a pint of milk in 
which three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 
have been blended, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, a half teaspoonful of salt, and a 
quarter teaspoonful of pepper. Stir slowly 
while adding this to the milk in the double 
boiler, and continue stirring until it is as thick 
as boiled custard. 

Drain a quart of oysters and add them to 
the mixture. Let them cook until they begin 
to shrivel a little, then serve very hot. 

TURKEY OR CHICKEN SOUP 

Take any bones left from roasted fowls, 
break them apart, and put them with the 
meat and skin into a soup kettle with two 
quarts of cold water, or a little more if that 
is not sufficient to cover them well. Add 
three medium-sized onions, sliced, and four 
blades of celery cut into half-inch pieces. Let 
this heat slowly, and boil very slowly. When 
almost done, add a couple of tablespoonfuls 
of the cold stuffing and, after boiling a few 
minutes more, lift out the bones and strain 
the soup through a colander. When it is 
cool skim off the fat that has risen to the sur- 
face, and put away ready for use. Add pep- 
per and salt just Defore heating the soup for 
the table. 

FRENCH VEGETABLE SOUP 

To two quarts of boiling water add one cup- 
ful each of diced carrots, turnips, potatoes, 
and onions. Let simmer in a closed sauce- 
pan for half an hour, then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one tablespoonful of salt, and 



SOUPS 



three tablespoonfuls of cream. The vege- 
tables must be well done, but not broken. 
Other vegetables may be added, such as a 
cupful of peas or small beans. If either of the 
latter be a left-over, and therefore cooked, it 
may be run through a sieve and the puree 
added to the soup. 

RICE AND TOMATO SOUP 

Strain and press through a sieve with a 
wooden spoon one half of a three-pound can 
of tomatoes, and stir into them two quarts 
of clear stock that has been made from bones. 
Season with a teaspoonf ul of salt and a quarter 
teaspoonful of pepper, add four ounces of rice 
that has been washed in plenty of cold water, 
and boil the soup slowly for three quarters of 
an hour. 

ONION SOUP 

One quart of milk, two large onions, one 
tablespoonful of butter. 

Brown the butter slightly in a saucepan, 
slice in the onions, and let them cook through 
and brown, but not burn. Heat the milk to 
boiling point. Cut two slices of bread in inch 
pieces and lay in a tureen. Put the cooked 
onions on the bread, and pour over them the 
hot milk and one cup of hot cream. Season 
with a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 

ONION AND CELERY SOUP 

A half cupful of chopped onions, a half cup- 
ful of chopped celery, three cupfuls of water, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, a liberal 
shaking of pepper, and milk or cream as needed. 

Prepare the onions and celery and simmer 
slowly in the water until tender. This will 
require over an hour. Then run through 
fruit press, return to kettle, add seasoning, 
rub butter smooth with flour, pour on some 
of the hot soup, then return to kettle and 
boil well. Now add milk or thin cream until 
it is of the desired consistency. It should be 
rather thin. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

Soak one cup split peas over night in cold 
water. In the morning drain, then add two 



and one half quarts of water, a quarter of a 
pound of salt pork, and one onion chopped 
fine. Simmer slowly until soft, then press 
through a strainer. Add a teaspoonful of 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour (mixed 
with little cold water) ; then add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and 
two cups of hot milk and let come to the 
boiling point. Serve hot. 

DUCHESS SOUP 

Two slices each of carrot and onion cooked 
in a tablespoonful of butter five minutes. 
Add one quart of white stock and one small 
blade of mace and cook for fifteen minutes. 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of flour until free from lumps, 
add gradually the seasoned stock, one half 
tablespoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and one pint of rich milk. Stir in four 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Cook two 
minutes. 

WHITE SOUP STOCK 

Put four pounds of knuckle of veal in a pot, 
cover with two quarts of cold water, add one 
tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pep- 
per, one onion, one blade of mace, two stalks 
of celery. Bring all to the boiling point, 
then simmer for four or five hours, strain and 
cool, and skim off fat. White stock may also 
be made from chicken, but is more expensive 
than the veal stock. 

CLAM SOUP 

To a quart of clam juice add a cupful of 
hot milk; thicken with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and one of flour blended together, then 
add the clams, chopped fine, season, and bring 
the soup again to the boiling point. A spoon- 
ful of whipped cream served on each plate 
of soup is an improvement. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP 

Cut bread into slices one inch thick, remove 
the crust, butter the bread, and cut into cubes 
half an inch square. Brown in oven or fry 
in deep lard. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP 

Cut one and a half cupfuls of mushrooms 
into fine pieces. Cook in two tablespoonfuls 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



of melted butter until tender, but not brown; 
remove the mushrooms, and brown one 
tablespoonful of flour in the butter. Then 
cook another cup and a half of diced mush- 
rooms in one pint of milk and one half-pint 
of cream. Cook in a double boiler until the 



cream has a mushroom flavor, then remove 
mushrooms and add the hot milk and oream 
to the cooked flour, mixing the two gradually. 
Return to the double boiler, add all the mush- 
rooms, and cook until of good consistency, 
then strain and serve very hot. 



FISH 
General Directions 

The principal thing to be considered in buying fish is its freshness. This 
can be determined by the fullness and prominence of the eyes, the thickness 
and firmness of the flesh, and the brightness of the scales and gills. When 
fish is to be fried or broiled have the steaks cut about an inch and a half thick. 

Full directions for baking any kind of fish are given below, also directions 
for boiling fish. 



BAKED FISH WITH DRESSING 

Fish with white flesh are best suited for 
baking. These are pickerel, pike, white 
fish, and bass. 

Wash, salt, then wipe the fish that has 
been trimmed to suit. Score the sides a 
very little to prevent bursting open, then 
rub inside with a little salt and pepper, fill 
with any of the dressings, sew carefully with 
soft cotton, then sprinkle a little more salt 
and pepper on both sides and either dredge 
well with flour or give it a very fine sifting 
of cracker crumbs on top. Omit crumbs 
on bottom, as they are likely to scorch. A 
covered roaster is best, as the browning 
process can be better regulated. Some 
skewer the fish into a circular shape, but it 
may be laid in pan straight. As fish is dry, 
plenty of butter is needed; a few strips of 
3alt pork should be laid over the fish and the 
pan put into a hot oven without adding 
water. After the fish begins to brown a half- 
pint of water and a large tablespoonful of 
butter can be poured over. A medium-sized 
fish, of three to four pounds, will require about 
forty to fifty minutes, but let this be your 
test:' Try where fish is thickest; insert a 
fork carefully; if it is flaky and separates 
readily, the fish is done. In taking up great 
care must be exercised not to break the fish. 



To serve baked fish, garnish with sprigs of 
parsley and pour a few spoonfuls of melted 
"not browned" butter over. Fluffy mashed 
potatoes and creamed onions are a good 
accompaniment. 

Dressing for Baked Fish 

One half loaf of baker's bread, one fourth 
cupful of minced Spanish onions, two eggs, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half saltspoonful of 
pepper, water as needed. 

Scrape the crumbs out of the half-loaf, 
leaving only the thin crust. Cover with 
cold water for a few minutes, press dry 
between the hands, and fluff apart. Add the 
seasoning and well beaten eggs. Cook but 
not brown the onions in the butter, add to 
bread, stir well with a fork, and then fill the 
fish and bake as directed. 

BOILED TROUT 

Prepare fish as directed for baking. If 
an oblong kettle is at hand lay the fish on a 
small old platter; if it must be cooked in a 
round kettle use a plate, and curve fish by 
tying a broad band of muslin around it. Now 
slip a piece of cheesecloth or clean muslin 
under the plate and tie or pin into a loop. 
Through this, slide a long-handled spoon 



FISH 



or a stick, which must rest on sides of kettle 
and keep the fish hanging under water, but 
so as not to touch bottom. The kettle must 
be large enough to have fish well immersed 
and water be boiling briskly, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt for about six cups of water, and 
either one spoonful of vinegar or two slices 
of lemon may be added; this makes the flesh 
firm. Allow about ten minutes for each 
pound. Test as for baking after lifting from 
kettle. If flesh does not flake easily return 
once more to the kettle. When draining 
slide fish on to an old folded towel to drip, 
then transfer to a hot platter, and garnish 
with little sprigs of parsley; then serve with 
sauce in separate bowl. Boiled fish is insipid 
unless it is served with a piquant sauce. 

FRIED FISH 

Perch, small river trout, and any of the 
large salt-water or fresh fish cut into suitable 
pieces may be fried. 

Rub fish well with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour or dip in a well beaten egg and roll 
in cracker dust. Have a generous piece of 
fresh lard and a little ham or bacon fat in 
a pan. Cook fish a nice golden brown on 
both sides. As soon as it flakes when tried 
with a fork drain off the fat carefully, then 
put a liberal piece of butter in the pan; let 
this bubble, but not get too brown; turn 
fish carefully so all parts come in contact 
with the butter, then serve on hot platter. 
The cooking of the fish in the lard is to pre- 
vent it from scorching, and after draining off 
the fat the butter imparts the delicate flavor 
fried fish should have; this is also more 
economical. Unless you often fry fish it 
may not be best to keep the fat, as it can 
be used only for fish. 

CREAMED SALT MACKEREL 

Soak the fish over night and wipe dry 
before using. Broil on a buttered gridiron 
over a clear fire. Lay on a hot dish and pour 
over it a cream sauce made as follows : Into 
one cup of boiling water stir two teaspoonfuls 
of cornstarch rubbed smooth with one 
tablespoonful of butter; cook until well 
thickened^ Add a well beaten egg, mixing 
carefully * to prevent curdling. Cook a 



moment longer, and season with a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley and a saltspoonful of 
pepper. 

CODFISH A LA CREME 

Pick the requisite amount of salt codfish, 
which has been well soaked, into small 
pieces, cover with cold water, let it heat 
gradually to near boiling, and then drain. 
If it is not then fresh enough cover again 
with fresh, cold water and repeat the slow 
heating, removing from the fire the instant 
it reaches the boiling point, and drain on a 
sieve. Make a white sauce, put in the 
fish, and cook until the whole is near boiling. 
To make this richer mix the yolks of two 
eggs with half a cupful of cream and add to 
the sauce before the fish is put in. And to 
make still richer, add an ounce of butter in 
small pieces after the eggs and cream and 
just before the fish. Serve over boiled new 
potatoes. 

BOILED WHITE FISH 

Wash well in cold water a nice fresh fish, 
wipe carefully, and rub with salt. Wrap 
in a thin cloth, and place in two quarts of 
boiling water, to which have been added a 
half cupful of vinegar, six cloves, six pepper 
corns, and one bay leaf. Allow ten minutes 
to each pound of fish. Then remove care- 
fully, and garnish with sliced lemon and 
parsley. 

PLANKED WHITE FISH 

Clean and split the fish and take out the 
backbone. Put skin side down on an oak 
y>lank one inch thick, and a little larger than 
the fish. Cover the plank where exposed 
with salt, and pepper it lightly; brush over 
with melted butter. Bake about twenty 
minutes under the flame of a gas Rtove. Send 
to the table on the plank. 

BROILED SHAD ROE 

Wipe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put 
in greased wire broiler, and broil on each side 
for five minutes. Serve with mattre d'h6tel 
butter. 



8 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



CREAMED OYSTERS 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in small 
frying pan on stt je, stirring in slowly, as 
it melts, a heaping tablespoonful of flour; 
add one pint of cream, stirring all the time. 
When it begins to thicken, take from the fire 
for a few minutes, and add the beaten yolk 
of an egg, stirred in well, and return to the 
fire. Keep stirring while you heat to the 
scalding ^mt a pint of oysters in their own 
liquor; skim them carefully, ^rain off the 
liquor, and add them to the cream. Just 
before serving add a tablespoonful of sherry. 

OYSTER PATTIES 

Prepare a cream sauce by above recipe, 
but do not put in any sherry. Wnen the 
oysters and sauce are piping ho*, put in shells 
of paste, which may be bought at any pastry 
cook's for that purpose, pud which are gen- 
erally more satisfactory rhan those made at 
home. After filling the shells put them in 
the oven a moment or two to heat. (The 
shells have, of course, been heated before 
the oysters have been put in them.) 

CREAMED CRABS 

Remove meat from as many crab shells 
as there are guests, carefully preserving the 
shells. Have ready a sauce similar to that 
for creamed oysters, add the crab meat to 
the sauce, mix well, then refill the shells. 
Put finely grated bread crumbs dotted with 
bits of butter on top, and put the shells in a 
roasting pan in the oven until the bread 
crumbs are browned. 

Lobsters are also good prepared in this 
manner; in fact, the recipe given above for 
cream sauce is a capital foundation for any 
kind of creamed fish, or shellfish. _ Cold 
cooked fish is very good warmed over in this 
way. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Drain twenty-five oysters and season with 
salt and pepper. Cut very fat pork or bacon 
into thin shoes, wrap an oyster in each slice, 
and fasten with a wooden toothpick; fry 
in a hot pan in the grease of the bacon until 
brown on both sides. Serve on small tri- 
angles of toast with a garnish of parsley. 



FRIED SMELTS 






Wash and dry well two pounds of smelts. 
Break two eggs, beat well, and season with 
pepper and salt. Dip the fish in the egg and 
then roll in bread crumbs or oatmeal. Fry 
to a light brown in lard or clarified dripping. 
Serve immediately after cooking, or they will 
lose their freshness and crispness. Garnish 
with slices of lemon and parsley. Smelts 
make a good breakfast or luncheon dish. 

CREAMED SALMON 

One can of salmon pulled into fine pieces 
with a fork. Make a sauce as follows: 
Boil one pint of milk, thickened with two 
Jablespoonfuls of cornstarch which has first 
been mixed with a cup of cold milk. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Prepare one pint of grated bread crumbs. 
In a pudding dish put a thin layer of bread 
crumbs, then a layer of the salmon, then of 
the sauce; fill the dish in this manner, having 
the bread crumbs on top, dot with bits of 
butter, and bake in the oven until brown. 

FINNAN HADDIE 

Wash the fish, put in a kettle of boiling 
water and boil twenty minutes, then lift on 
to a hot platter and pour over it a cupful of 
cream or rich milk which has been previously 
heated. 

Some people prefer to soak the finnan 
haddie for an hour in cold water, then to 
drain it well and put it in a very hot frying 
pan in which a tablespoonful of dripping or 
lard has been heated, and fry slowly until 
it is a light brown and cooked through. Serv. 
with a tablespoonful and a half of mellflf 
butter poured over the top. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Scale and beard one quart oysters, strain 
the liquor into a stew pan, add to it two 
ounces butter mixed with two ounces flour, 
a little cream, anchovy sauce, nutmeg, 
cayenne, and salt. Put this over the fire 
and boil ten minutes, add the yolks of two 
eggs, a little lemon juice, and a little chopped 
parsley; cut the oysters in halves, add them, 
and stir all together over the fire for a few 



FISH SAUCES, MEATS 



minutes. Now fill your shells or baking 
dish with this preparation and cover with a 
thin layer of bread crumbs; place in the oven 
for a few minutes, brown, and serve hot. 

After adding the oysters to the sauce be 
careful not to allow them to remain too long 
over the fire, or they will become tough and 
the sauce watery. 

SCALLOPED CLAMS 

Same as for scalloped oysters, except that 
the clams should be chopped and a suspicion 
of mace or nutmeg added to the other sea- 
soning. 

COLD BOILED LOBSTER 

Wash and brush thoroughly a live lobster, 
tie claws and tail with twine, and plunge 
into boiling water in which has been put a 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil ten minutes, then 
move to back of range and let simmer for 
thirty minutes. Drain and cool, and eat 
with tartar or mayonnaise sauce. 

FISH SAUCES 
Mayonnaise 

To the mashed yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs add a dessert-spoonful of dry mustard, 
half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a tea- 
spoonful and a half of salt, the yolks of two 
raw eggs, a pint of olive oil put in drop by 
drop while stirring, the juice of half a lemon, 
a quarter of a cupful of cream, a quarter of 



a cupful of vinegar. Put in a cool place or 
on ice. 

Tartar Sauce 

• 

Tartar sauce is made by adding to the 
mayonnaise given above, two tablespoonfuls 
of finely chopped green onions and pickled 
gherkins, with a few capers. 

Drawn Butter with Eggs 

Rub together one half cupful of butter ana 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, then stir in one 
pint of boiling water, or, if you prefer, use 
part milk. Let boil and add a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. If used for fish, boil two eggs hard, 
slice them, and add to sauce. If the sauce 
is intended for new potatoes add a little 
chopped parsley. For cauliflower the sauce 
is very good with the addition of a little 
grated cheese. 

Tomato Sauce 

Let one chopped onion brown in one 
tablespoonful of butter; add three table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catchup and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and minced parsley. 
Stir well, and pour over fish. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped 
parsley with three tablespoonfuls of cold 
unmelted butter. Lay this in small pieces 
over the fish, to be melted by the heat from it. 



MEATS 
General Directions 

In selecting a roast it is poor economy to buy anything but what the butchers 
call "heavy" beef. This has more nourishment in it than the lighter beef, 
being well streaked with fat. 

Mutton should be hung for at least a week before using. Get your butcher 
to weigh and trim a leg of mutton and put it in his refrigerator until it is needed. 

Pork is fit for the table only in the fall and winter, and should be very thor- 
oughly cooked. All meats should be washed in cold water when they come 
from the butcher's, and dried with a clean cloth. 

ROAST BEEF to the pound is the average allowance for 

The best pieces for roasting are the sirloin cooking. Dredge your meat lightly with 

and the rib roasts. Twelve to fifteen minutes flour, add a cupful of cold water to baste 



10 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



with, cover tightly (there are pans made 
specially for roasting meat), and baste 
every fifteen minutes. Never touch the meat 
with a fork while* it is cooking, as this allows 
the juices to escape. Do not season it with 
salt or pepper until it is well seared over, as 
the salt has the effect of drawing out the 
juice. Put it in a very hot oven to start, and 
after fifteen minutes lessen the heat, and cook 
slowly the remainder of the time. These 
directions hold good for any kind of roast. 
Roast beef should be served with a thick 
brown gravy, the directions for which are 
given under the head of "Gravy"; and 
Yorkshire pudding is always a good addition 
to a roast of beef. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

To two eggs beaten very light allow two 
cupfuls of milk and two cupfuls of flour, with 
a teaspoonful of baking powder; mix well. 
Take three large spoonfuls of gravy from the 
beef roast, put in a breadpan, and let it 
come to a boil on top of the stove ; then pour 
in the batter and let it bake thirty minutes 
in the oven. When it is done cut it into 
squares with a sharp knife, and put on the 
platter around the roast. 

ROAST TURKEY 

After the turkey is drawn, which is gener- 
ally done at the butcher's, wash the inside 
out well in salt and water, fold the wings back 
and fasten them with a skewer, skewer the 
legs together, and bind strips of salt pork 
over the breast and legs to keep the turkey 
from drying too much. The dressing has 
been inserted before the legs have been 
skewered, and is made as follows: One 
quart of bread crumbs, one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter melted, beaten 
yolks of two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of 
summer savory, one tablespoonful of sage; 
moisten this with water and stuff the 
turkey with it. After the lower part is 
filled, make a slit in the neck and fill the 
breast so it will look plump. Sometimes 
chopped oysters are used in place of the herbs. 
A turkey should cook very slowly and be 
well basted. A turkey weighing seven or 



eight pounds will require two hours or mora 
if cooked in a very slow oven. 

ROAST CHICKEN 

Chicken should be prepared in the same 
manner as turkey, and the same recipe for 
stuffing used. For a medium-sized chicken 
three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven will 
be required. 

BEEFSTEAK 

The best cuts of steak are the porterhouse 
and the sirloin. A steak should be cut three 
inches thick, for it shrinks in the cooking, 
and a thick steak when broiled over a good 
fire is quickly seared on the outside and 
preserves the juice. A steak should never 
be cooked in any way but broiling. When 
it is put on a hot platter for serving, pour 
over it three large tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter seasoned with pepper and salt and a 
little Worcestershire sauce. This with the 
juice of the meat will make sufficient gravy. 
Never under any circumstances put water 
in the gravy. 

ROAST MUTTON OR LAMB 

Lamb and mutton should be washed and 
wiped dry, then put in a hot oven with a cup 
of water for basting and well dredged with 
flour. Salt and pepper should be added half 
an hour before the roast is taken out. It 
should be basted every fifteen minutes, and 
the time allowance should be twelve minutes 
to the pound. Lower the gas in the oven 
after the first fifteen minutes. 

ROAST PORK 

Pork requires very slow and thorough 
cooking, so it is best to allow twenty minutes 
to the pound. Prepare in the same manner 
as you would a roast of beef. Sometimes 
a leg of pork is boned and stuffed with bread 
crumbs and sage and onions. Apple sauce 
is served with it. The gravy should be thick, 
the recipe for which is given under the head 
of "Gravy." 

ROAST FILLET OF VEAL 

A fillet of veal is cut from the upper part 
of the leg. Have the butcher remove the 



MEATS 



11 



bone and bind and skewer it up securely, 
leaving the space where the bone was taken 
out for the stuffing to be put in. Season 
three pints of bread crumbs with pepper and 
salt and the grated rind of a lemon. With 
this put three tablespoonfuls of summer 
savory, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Bind these ingredients together with a beaten 
egg, fill the space in the fillet where the bone 
was, lay two slices of fat salt pork on top, 
and dredge with flour. Put a cup of water 
into the roasting pan to baste with; cover 
the pan when the roast is in, and cook in an 
oven that has been made very hot for the 
first fifteen minutes, then cool it off a little 
and cook slowly (two hours will be required 
for a six-pound roast). During the last 
half -hour have the cover removed so the meat 
will be well browned. With the dressing 
that is left make little balls about the size 
of new potatoes, fry in lard, and put around 
the veal when it is served, alternating with 
thin slices of lemon. Serve with this a thick 
brown gravy made by the same recipe as that 
given for roast-beef gravy. 

VEAL LOAF OR BEEF LOAF 

Three and a half pounds of raw veal put 
through the mincer with one half-pound of 
salt pork. Add one small tablespoonful of 
salt, half a tablespoonful of pepper, two 
cupfuls of rolled cracker or bread crumbs, 
two cupfuls of milk, two beaten eggs, a quar- 
ter cup of melted butter, and half an onion 
minced fine. Mix the dry ingredients, add 
the liquids, and mold with the hands into the 
shape of a loaf of bread. Bake in a covered 
pan with two cups of water to baste it with. 
Cook slowly for nearly two hours; uncover 
the last half-hour to brown. Beef loaf is 
also made by this recipe, substituting beef 
for the veal. Round steak may be used. 

RABBIT STEW 

Wash the rabbit well, cut it into quarters, 
lard them well with slices of bacon, and fry 
them; then put them into a stew pan with 
little more than a pint of broth or stock, 
some savory herbs, salt and pepper to taste. 
Simmer gently until the rabbit is tender. 
Then strain the gravy. Make a roux of 



one tablespoonful of melted butter and three 
tablespoonfuls of flour; cook until very thick, 
add gravy, let come to a boil, pour over the 
rabbit, and serve. Garnish with slices of 
bacon. 

VEAL CUTLETS WITH TOMATO 
SAUCE 

Select the nicest cuts of veal chops, sprinkle 
lightly with salt and pepper, then roll in 
cracker crumbs and fry in plenty of butter 
until well done. Have ready a sauce made 
of one coffee cupful of canned tomatoes, 
in which has been cooked one small onion 
chopped fine; add a saltspoonful of salt 
and half as much pepper. Cook slowly a 
long time until the onion is tender and the 
sauce thick. Add a teaspoonful of butter 
and pour over the chops. Serve hot at once. 

STUFFED ROAST GOOSE 

After stuffing and trussing the bird sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and lay thin strips of 
fat salt pork on breast. Stuffing: Finely 
chop one onion, add one fourth cupful finely 
chopped salt pork; cook ten minutes; strain 
off fat. To fat add one and one fourth cups 
soft stale bread crumbs and two cups riced 
potatoes, one third cup butter, one third 
cup finely chopped celery, one egg slightly 
beaten; season. Cook goose in oiled paper 
bag or in roaster, and baste every fifteen 
minutes. 

VEAL BIRDS 

Two pounds veal chops (about), one bunch 
parsley, two ounces bacon, one half onion, 
one half cupful bread crumbs, one saltspoon- 
ful salt, one fourth saltspoonful paprika. 

Cut veal in three-inch squares. Put bones 
in soup kettle. Pound each piece out flat, 
place on top of a strip of thin bacon three 
inches long and a half inch wide a spray of 
parsley and a teaspoonful of bread crumbs. 
Sprinkle with salt and paprika and add a few 
drops of onion juice. Roll the veal tightly 
and skewer in place with metal skewers. 
Brown in hot fat and place in casserole. With 
the fat in which the birds have been browned 
make a thin brown sauce and add to the cas- 
serole, covering the birds. Bake until tender. 
When ready to serve arrange the birds on 



12 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



the platter, remove the skewers, cover with 
brown sauce, and garnish with sprigs of pars- 
ley. 

SPANISH STEW 

Put a pound of round steak through the 
meat grinder and grind it fine. Have in a 
saucepan, smoking hot, two tablespoonfuls 
of meat drippings, or of lard and butter mixed. 
Into this turn your ground meat, which should 
have been dredged with flour, brown the meat 
in the fat, and have ready a large onion 
chopped fine. Pour a cupful of hot water over 
the meat and add the onion. This liquid will 
make a brown gravy for the onion to cook in. 
After five minutes add two thirds of a can of 
tomatoes and a good-sized red pepper. If 
one prefers the taste of cayenne, one may add 
this to taste. Simmer all together until the 
onion is done. Have ready a cupful of boiled 
macaroni and mix it with the foregoing stew. 
It is well to season the macaroni with cayenne 
while it is cooking. Before serving this dish 
add one teaspoonful of salt. 

CREAMED CALF'S BRAINS 

Blanch the brains by parboiling them and 
remove all bits of string and skin. Throw 
into cold water and, when cold, cut into pieces 
about an inch square. Cook together a table- 
spoonful of flour and one of butter and pour 
upon them a cup of rich milk, seasoned with 
a saltspoonful of salt and a quarter saltspoon- 
ful of cayenne. Add a pinch of baking soda 
to the milk. When the sauce is smooth and 
thick add a tablespoonful of minced parsley 
and the brains. Stir until well heated, then 

Eut in gradually, stirring all the time, the 
eaten yolk of an egg, and when this has 
cooked for a minute add a tablespoonful of 
sherry. Serve on a hot dish, garnishing with 
small triangles of toast. 

JUGGED RABBIT 

Into a stone crock slice a large onion and 
add one half teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, 
paprika, and a quarter saltspoonful of cayenne. 
Put into the crock the jointed rabbit, which 
has been cleaned and laid for an hour in cold 
water to which a cup of vinegar has been added . 
Cover the rabbit with sliced bacon and cover 
all with water. Put the top on the crock and 



jravy 



bake slowly for an hour. Thicken the gravy 
before serving the rabbit. 

STEWED BEEF HEART 

Soak the heart in cold water for several 
hours to draw out the blood. With a sharp 
knife cut out the muscles and tough top. 
Dry and fill with this stuffing: One cupful 
of fine stale bread crumbs, one half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one quarter teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of chopped onion, a half tea- 
spoonful of dried sweet herbs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter. Sew the top well 
together and wrap in a piece of cheesecloth. 
Fit it into a small saucepan, point downward, 
pour in enough boiling water to come almost 
to the top, add a tablespoonful of tomato 
catchup and a half teaspoonful of salt, cover, 
and simmer slowly for three hours. Remove 
the heart and keep it hot. Thicken the gravy 
with slightly browned flour, boil, and add sea- 
soning and two or three tablespoonfuls of 
sherry. Strain and serve, passing currant 
jelly with the meat. 

PIGEON PIE 

This is Mrs. Abraham Lincoln's recipe 

Make a fine puff paste; lay a border of it 
around a large dish and cover the bottom with 
a veal cutlet or a tender steak. Sprinkle with 
a half teaspoonful of salt, a half saltspoonful 
of cayenne pepper, and a saltspoonful of mace. 
Prepare as many pigeons as can be put in one 
layer on the dish, breast downward. Sprinkle 
the birds with a half teaspoonful of salt and a 
quarter saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, dot 
with butter, and cover with sliced, hard- 
boiled eggs (six). Add a cupful or two of 
veal broth, cover with a crust, and bake 
slowly for one hour and a half. 

ENGLISH BEEFSTEAK PUDDING 

Remove the membrane from half a pound 
of beef suet and put it through the chopper. 
Mix it with a pint of sifted flour, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a dash of pepper. Add suf- 
ficient ice water to mix to a stiff dough and 
roll out three quarters of an inch thick. _ Cut 
two pounds of round steak into inch pieces, 
season with one teaspoonful of salt and one 
saltspoonful of pepper, and dredge lightly with 



MEATS, MEAT SAUCES 



13 



flour. Thickly butter a two-quart bowl, lay 
the dough in it, press lightly so that it will 
fit well, and trim it off, leaving an inch or more 
at the top. Fill with the meat and add a 
half cupful of cold, thin gravy, tomato sauce, 
stock or water. Roll out the trimmings to 
form a cover and lay it over the top, moisten- 
ing, and slightly pressing the edges to make 
them adhere. Wring a thick cloth out of 
cold water, dredge well with flour, lay over 
the top, gather it under the bottom of the 
bowl and tie firmly. Put a plate or trivet 
in the bottom of a kettle of boiling water, 
stand the pudding on it, and boil hard and 
steadily for three hours. 

LIVER A LA BEGUE 

This is a recipe from the famous Begu6 restaurant 
of New Orleans 

Secure a fine bit of calf liver, fresh and of 
good color. Skin well. Have a quantity of 
lard in a frying pan, well heated. Slice the 
liver in thick slices. Place in the lard and 
let it cook slowly, after seasoning with pepper 
and salt. Let the lard cover the liver. Sim- 
mer over a slow fire and when cooked drain 
off the grease and serve on a hot plate. 

TRIPE A LA CAEN 

Assuming that the tripe has been properly 
cleaned and washed (not pickled), cut two 
pounds into ribbons an inch wide and three 
inches long. Cut a quarter of a pound of 
bacon into dice; bone a calf's foot, cut into 
six pieces and cook with the bacon until 
half done, stirring to prevent burning. 

Next put into a saucepan with the tripe 
ten tiny onions, two carrots cut into dice, 
three cloves, a blade of mace, half a dozen 
sprigs of parsley, and a gill of brandy. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Over all pour one 
quart 01 veal stock. 

Simmer for half an hour, then turn into 
an earthen jar with a cover (or a brass jar 
will do). Bake until thoroughly done. 
Remove the parsley, skim off the fat, and 
6erve in the jar — known in France as a 
"marmite" — hot. 

This dish may be cooked over a gas plate 
with the flame turned low, if it is not con- 
venient to use the oven. 



TO CLARIFY DRIPPINGS 

To clarify drippings use beef suet prefer- 
ably, but any trimmings of fat (except 
mutton and lamb) may be tried out. Put 
trimmings into a crock, add three quarters 
of a teacup of boiling water. Set the crock 
in a pot of boiling water and put all on one 
corner of the range, where the suet will melt 
slowly. Pour the fat off into a clean bowl 
or jar as it melts, and add a little more boil- 
ing water to the unmelted suet. When all 
is melted strain, and set aside for use. Keep 
cold. 

Every day all the bits of fat left from meat, 
the fat skimmed from soup and gravy, 
should be saved, melted in water as above 
directed, strained, and set aside in a cold 
place. Once a week these drippings should 
be collected, brought to the boiling point 
over water, strained and set aside. This 
process will insure sweet fat for frying or 
sauteing. 

MEAT SAUCES 

Gravy 

After meat is cooked in a frying pan or 
broiler, and the juice and fat caught in a pan 
underneath, or after it is roasted in a pan, we 
have the foundation for the gravy proper. 
A liquid made of stock, and thickened, is 
really a sauce and not a gravy. Take the 
meat out of the pan when cooked and pour 
off all but one tablespoonful of the fat in 
which it was cooked. Into this dredge as 
much flour as will make it a paste, and rub 
the two well together over the fire until 
cooked to a light brown. Pour over this as 
much boiling water as will reduce it to the 
thickness of cream, add a tablespoonful of 
mushroom catchup, if liked, and a saltspoonf ul 
of salt. Simmer for five or ten minutes, 
stirring constantly, and pour through a 
strainer (if not perfectly smooth) into a 
gravy boat, or over the meat, if this way of 
eating the gravy is preferred. 

Gravy for cold meats may be made in a 
similar way, and the cold slices simmered in 
it until heated through. Some cooks make 
a meat extract and keep it always on hand 
for the making of gravy. A pound of ham- 
burg steak may be gently cooked an hour 
or more, and the extract used for this purpose. 



14 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



Bread Sauce 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler 
with a slicea onion. Let it cook until the milk 
is thoroughly seasoned with the onion, then 
remove the onion, put in a bit of butter half 
the size of an egg, cayenne pepper, and half 
a teaspoonful of salt. One half -hour before 
serving thicken with fine bread crumbs, 
and stir until smooth. This sauce requires 
some care in making, as it should be per- 
fectly smooth. 



This sauce is used for poultry and game, 
beside the usual brown gravy. 

Mint Sauce 

Pick all the leaves from a good-sized bunch 
of mint and chop them fine, add a small 
tablespoonf ul of white sugar, and four table- 
spoonfuls of best vinegar. Let stand for a 
couple of hours before using. There should 
be two tablespoonfuls of the mint, after it 
is chopped, to this amount of vinegar. To 
be eaten with lamb. 



VEGETABLES 
Time Table for Vegetables 

Boil potatoes half an hour if of medium size, less time if they are very 
small. Medium-sized onions should be given an hour; peas and asparagus, 
twenty-five minutes; green corn, twenty-five minutes; cabbage and cauli- 
flower, thirty minutes; carrots and turnips, forty-five minutes when young and 
in winter, an hour. Beets take an hour in summer, and from an hour and 
a half to two hours in winter. Lima beans take half an hour when young, 
forty-five minutes when old. 

At a first glance it may seem that undue prominence has been given to the 
potato, but when one takes into consideration that for three hundred and sixty- 
five days in the year the potato in some form or other makes its appearance on 
the table, always at dinner and often for luncheon, there can scarcely be too 
many methods by which its manner of serving may be varied. 



EGG PLANT FRIED 

Slice the egg plant into half-inch slices 
and let it lie in salted water for three hours. 
Dip in beaten egg and cracker crumbs. 
Fry in hot butter, turning carefully until it 
is cooked through and a light brown in color. 

BREADED ONIONS 

Slice Bermuda onions, roll in egg and 
cracker crumbs, and fry in bacon fat; brown 
well. 

SUCCOTASH 

Stew in least possible quantity of water 
equal parts of green corn, and lima or string 
beans until tender; add one half cupful of 
cream or milk, a lump of butter half the size 
of an egg, pepper, and salt. The water 
should of course be drained off before the 
cream is added. 



ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 

Cook in three pints of water two pounds 
of lean, tender beef cut into inch squares. 
When done remove the meat from the broth 
and place in a hot spider with a tablespoonf ul 
of ham or bacon drippings, and when browned 
nicely on all sides set back on the range 
until ready to serve. Take one half package 
of spaghetti broken in two-inch lengths, 
blanched, add to the meat broth with one 
can of strained tomato, a tiny clove of garlic, 
one can of button mushrooms, and one half 
cupful of grated cheese. Season with one 
teaspoonful of salt and one saltspoonful of 
pepper and simmer one half hour. Place 
the meat in the center of the platter and 
surround with the spaghetti mixture. " This 
dish is almost a meal in itself. One cupful 
of dried mushrooms soaked in cold water 



VEGETABLES 



over night may be used in place of the fresh 
or canned with equally good results. 

SPAGHETTI AND CHEESE ROMAINE 

Two cupfuls of broken spaghetti, one 
cupful of minced cheese, one cupful of milk, 
butter the size of an egg, yolks of two eggs. 
This dish should be quite yellow. Cook 
the spaghetti twenty minutes in boiling 
salted water and drain dry. Put the cheese, 
butter, and half the milk into a saucepan. 
Add a saltspoonful each of salt and pepper. 
Then add the whole to the spaghetti. Put 
in a baking dish and bake to a yellow brown 
as quickly as possible. 

SARATOGA ONIONS 

Peel and thinly slice three large white 
onions and soak in milk for ten minutes, then 
drain and dry on a towel. Separate the slices 
into rings, put a dozen or more at a time in a 
frying basket and plunge into smoking hot 
fat. Take out as soon as delicately colored, 
drain for a moment on unglazed paper, turn 
into a heated dish, dust lightly with salt, and 
serve at once. 

CARROTS IN CASSEROLE 

Two pounds of carrots, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, a half teaspoonful of salt, a half 
teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
onion juice, a liberal shaking of pepper, and 
water as needed. 

Pare carrots and cut into strips size of a 
lead pencil. Cut these in two-inch lengths, 
heat butter in a close covered casserole, add 
the washed carrots and a very little water, 
about a quarter cupful to begin with, cover, 
and simmer over low fire. From time to time 
shake the kettle to prevent settling. After 
half an hour add the seasoning and, if needed, 
add a little more water, but at no time have 
carrots more than moist enough to prevent 
burning. When tender they should be deli- 
cately flavored and just right to take up with- 
out draining or needing any thickening. 

For a change try half this amount of carrots, 
and add one half can of drained green string 
beans half an hour before serving. In that 
event shake one teaspoonful of flour over and 
stir in with a fork five minutes before serving. 



FRICASSEE OF PARSNIPS 

Scrape the parsnips and boil in milk until 
they are tender, then take out and cut in four 
pieces, if they are large ; add a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, one half teaspoonful of 
salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper in the 
milk they were boiled in, thicken it with a 
very little flour, put parsnips back in the dress- 
ing, and let them simmer about forty minutes. 

CORN FRITTERS 

One pint of grated corn, either fresh or 
canned, half a cup of milk, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of melted butter, two eggs 
well beaten, one teaspoonful of baking powder, 
mixed with enough flour to make a thick 
batter. 

Fry by the spoonful in hot lard; turn as 
you would pancakes. The corn, whether 
fresh or canned, must have been cooked pre- 
vious to using it for the fritters. 

HOT CREAMED CABBAGE 

Chop fine one small cabbage, cover with 
boiling water, and put in soda the size of a 
pea; boil for fifteen minutes, then drain off 
the water. Melt a tablespoonful of butter, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, 
add a cup of rich milk, and when it is very 
hot pour over the cabbage, which has been 
put into a vegetable dish, and serve. This 
may be varied by putting the cabbage into a 
baking dish after it has been mixed with the 
cream, grating cheese over the top, and letting 
it remain in the oven until the top is browned. 

CREAMED CELERY 

Boil in salted water (a teaspoonful of salt 
to a quart of water), until tender, one pint of 
celery cut in small pieces. Melt one large 
tablespoonful of butter, add two of flour, and 
stir in gradually one and a half cups of milk. 
Cook for five minutes, then drain celery, put 
it in a baking dish, pour the sauce over it, 
grate cheese on top, add some small pieces of 
butter, and bake until browned. 

FRIED TOMATOES 

Dip rather thick slices of tomatoes in a 
batter made of one egg. half a tablespoonful 



16 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



. of flour, half a teacupful of milk, and fry 
brown in lard or butter. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Season half a can of tomatoes with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and 
the juice of an onion. Add a cupful of finely 
minced celery. Butter baking dish, and first 
put in half of the tomatoes, then a layer of 
buttered soda crackers sprinkled with two 
heaping tablespoonfula of grated American 
cheese. Then add the tomatoes, sprinkle the 
tops with crumbs and bits of butter, and bake 
for twenty minutes. 

SPINACH A LA CREME 

Turn the spinach from the can an hour 
before cooking it. When you are ready to do 
this mince it fine and set over the fire in the 
inner vessel of a double boiler, the outer being 
filled with boiling water. While the spinach 
is heating make a roux in a frying pan of one 
tablespoonful of flour and two of butter. 
When this is smooth stir it into the hot 
spinach. Season with white pepper and salt 
to taste, with a teaspoonful of white sugar, 
a dash of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. 

Beat all together over the fire and cook for 
ten minutes, stirring often. Heat half a cup- 
ful of cream in a separate vessel with a bit of 
soda the size of a pea, and when it is scalding 
hot beat into the spinach. Cook three min- 
utes more, stirring and beating all the time. 
Serve smoking hot, garnishing the dish with 
triangles of toast. 

BUTTERED BEETS 

Six small young beets, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one fourth teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of paprika, a pinch of sugar. 

Cut the leaves from the beets, being care- 
ful not to cut too close, as that will let out 
the juices and make the beets pale and in- 
sipid. Wash well, then boil in enough water 
to cover. When tender drain, then pour cold 
water over. This enables you to slip the skin 
off. Now cut into neat slices. Heat butter 
in pan, add the beets and seasoning, shake, 
and let heat through well. When serving 
have vinegar on table, as it is liked by many. 



GENERAL RULES FOR BOILING AND 
BAKING POTATOES 

If potatoes are to be baked or boiled in 
the skin, select them of even size and not 
too large; scrub well and remove any blem- 
ishes. Also clip off a little piece from each 
end to let moisture escape. If boiled in 
skin put on in cold water, so that they will 
heat gradually, and not burst open before 
they are done. If peeled and boiled put 
on in boiling water. When tender drain 
well, then hold over low fire and shake kettle, 
lifting, then replacing cover until potatoes 
are dry and mealy. If boiled in skin to be 
used for frying or salad, drain them into a 
strainer and set aside to cool; this retains 
their shape. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Scrub and trim as directed, set in hot oven 
in old baking pan or on grating. Have oven 
very hot at first, then decrease heat and bake 
until they are soft and yield readily to 
pressure. This will require about forty-five 
minutes or possibly longer. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

Bake as directed. When done, cut top off 
lengthwise, scoop out the interior, place in 
hot bowl, and mash, adding salt and pepper 
to taste, and one tablespoonful of butter and 
one of milk to every two potatoes. Mash 
this and beat up lightly, then fill into the 
potato shells, dot with butter, and bake 
until light brown. A teaspoonful of onion 
juice, minced ham, or parsley, may be added 
to the mixture before filling. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Eight medium-sized potatoes, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one fourth to half a cupful 
of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, a few shak- 
ings of pepper, and water and salt for boiling 
as needed. 

Peel and cut potatoes into even pieces. 
When ready to cook cover with boiling water. 
After they have begun to boil add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, boil until tender, drain and dry as 
directed in general notes. Now mash with 
a good wire potato masher until smooth. 
Add seasoning, butter, and milk and whisk 



VEGETABLES 



17 



with the masher or a strong fork to make them 
creamy. Pile lightly in hot dish to serve. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

Three cupfuls of potatoes cut into small 
cubes, one cupful of milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, salt 
and pepper to taste, and one tablespoonful 
of parsley. 

Cover potatoes with boiling water, adding 
a teaspoonful of salt, and boil until just done, 
but not broken. Heat milk in double boiler, 
rub flour and butter smooth, pour on some 
of the hot milk, then add to milk and boil 
until thickened. Season to taste, drain 

Eotatoes and slide into hot milk. Let 
ubble up once or twice, then pour into 
hot serving dish and sprinkle the parsley 
over them. 

O'BRIEN POTATOES 

Peel and dice into a baking dish nine 
medium-sized cold boiled potatoes, salting 
well. Chop one green pepper fine and par- 
boil for three minutes. Make a sauce of 
three cupfuls of milk thickened with two 
tablespoonf uls of flour. Stir in the parboiled 
shredded pepper, add to potatoes, turning 
grated cheese over the top and bake twenty 
minutes. This recipe is for a large family. 

CURRIED POTATOES 

Eight medium-sized cold boiled potatoes 
are diced. In a frying pan a tablespoonful 
of chopped onion is slowly cooked in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter until it begins to 
color. The potatoes are then added, salt, 
pepper, and one scant teaspoonful of curry 
powder sprinkled over them, and when well 
mixed one half of a cupful of good stock 
and one tablespoonful of lemon juice should 
be poured in. The potatoes should be care- 
fully tossed and cooked until all the liquid is 
absorbed, then dished and sprinkled with a 
little chopped parsley. 

SWEET POTATO COMPOTE 

Spread slices of boiled sweet potato in a 
buttered pudding dish. Sprinkle with brown 
sugar and dot with butter. On this put 
thin slices of peeled apple, also sugar and 



butter. Alternate potato and apple, having 
five layers altogether. Use plenty of butter 
and sugar. Pour over a cup of water and 
bake until the apple is soft and the liquid 
a thick sirup. 

BAKED POTATO ESPAGNAL 

Bake six medium-sized white potatoes, 
cut open lengthwise, and remove contents. 
Mash potatoes with one grated onion, one 
quarter teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one half cupful of cream. Replace 
the potatoes equally in the twelve shells. 
Place a pimento on top of each, and brown 
in the oven. 

SCALLOPED SWEET POTATOES 

Slice raw sweet potatoes very thin. Butter 
a pudding dish and arrange a layer of sliced 
potatoes in the bottom, and sprinkle with a 
teaspoonful of flour, several bits of butter, 
and a very little salt and pepper. Continue 
in this way until the dish is filled. Pour 
in enough milk to moisten the whole thor- 
oughly and bake for forty minutes. 

RAW FRIED POTATOES 

Pare the potatoes and slice into very thin, 
even slices. If potatoes are large they may 
be halved or even quartered before slicing. 
Lay in cold water at least an hour before 
frying. Heat about one tablespoonful of 
good sweet lard or unsalted beef drippings 
in a frying pan. Drain potatoes well, put 
in pan, and cover and let steam about ten 
minutes. During this time shake pan a 
few times so the potatoes will not stick, then 
uncover and with a spatula turn potatoes. 
To be correctly made raw fried potatoes 
should be nicely browned and tender inside; 
they must not be mashed or scorched. It is 
best to start with unsalted drippings; now 
begin to fry very slowly without cover; if 
they do not get tender in the same propor- 
tion as they brown cover again to let them 
steam. Toward the last shake half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper 
over and add a generous tablespoonful of 
butter. Shake and turn so all are evenly 
seasoned and serve very hot. To be at their 
best these potatoes should be served as soon 



18 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



as done. The amount of shortening given 
is sufficient for six to eight medium potatoes. 
For a change potatoes may be cut into small 
strips or cube3 and fried raw. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES . 

Peel boiled potatoes, chop rather fine, add 
half an onion finely minced to one quart 
chopped potatoes. Heat an iron frying pan 
and put in it one tablespoonful of butter or 
good drippings. This portion is about right 
for five or six medium potatoes. At first 
let the potatoes cook very slowly and do not 
stir or lift them. After a few minutes lift 
the edge carefully and see if they are begin- 
ning to get fight brown. As soon as they are 
well colored lift them in as large sections 
as possible and turn over. Add a little 
more shortening and again let them brown. 
Now shake one teaspoonful of salt and one 
saltspoonful of pepper over them; turn again, 
and season other side. If both sides have 
browned well turn potatoes to one side of 
pan, melt a little good butter on the one 
side, then turn the potatoes over on that. 
Shake pan to spread them. Let cook a few 
minutes more, then serve. 



POTATO CONES 

Beat mashed potatoes until light and 
creamy, and form into cones, using an ice- 
cream mold, if you have one. Then put the 
potato cones into a buttered baking dish, 
brush with melted butter, and brown in a 
hot oven. 

POTATO ROSES 

Cream mashed potatoes very thoroughly 
by beating, and fill a pastry bag with the 
mixture. Hold the bag in an upright posi- 
tion, the tube pointing downward, and force 
out the potatoes and coil around in smaller 
and smaller circles or shape in bow knots. 
These should be forced out on a buttered 
tin and browned in the oven. A funnel of 
heavy brown paper may be used instead of 
a bag. 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE 

Press very creamy mashed potatoes into 
a buttered baking dish, grate cheese over it, 
and bake in oven for a few minutes. 

See recipe for Drawn Butter under "Fish 
Sauces" on page 9. 



SALADS 
General Directions 

Lettuce should be washed in cold water as soon as it comes from the shop, 
then put in cheesecloth or clean brown paper, well squeezed to press the water 
out, and then put on the ice for at least two hours before using. If these direc- 
tions are followed the lettuce will be crisp and cold. 

The oil is an important factor in making a good salad, and a reliable 
domestic oil is superior to the imported. If cream is used as a substitute 
for oil it should be thick and rich. 

chopped almonds and chopped pecans oyer 
the grape fruit, pour over the French dressing 
and serve. 



GRAPE FRUIT AND NUT SALAD 

Peel one large solid grape fruit, remove all 
white skin and peel each carpel. ^ Be careful 
not to squeeze so as to start the juice, but if 
any does flow, save it. Rub the bottom of 
a platter delicately with garlic, arrange crisp 
lettuce leaves on it, and pile the grape fruit 
pulp in the center. Keep on ice until ready 
to serve, then make a French dressing at 
table. Sprinkle two tablespoonfuls each of 



CAULD7LOWER SALAD 

Boil cauliflower in salted water until 
tender, then pull apart into flowerets; 
marinate with three tablespoonfuls each of 
vinegar and of olive oil, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. 



SALADS 



19 



When ready to serve, drain and arrange on a 
dish; tuck between the flowerets boiled 
beets cut into slices; place lettuce heart in 
top and wreathe base with stiff mayonnaise. 

COLD SLAW WITH SOUR CREAM 

Chop one quarter of a head of cabbage. 
Do not salt it. Set in the ice until ready to 
serve, then put a portion on each plate and 
on the top of each portion put two table- 
spoonfuls of sour cream dressing made as 
follows: 

Whip a cup of thick, sour cream until 
stiff, add gradually one half cup of strong 
vinegar and one half cup of granulated sugar, 
alternately, and stir in one half teaspoonful 
of salt. Keep in a cool place until you serve. 

GRAPE SALAD 

One pound of white grapes, one head of 
lettuce, one pint of chopped celery, mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Skin the grapes, cut in two, and remove 
seeds. When ready to serve mix all together 
and send to table on lettuce leaves. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Boil one large chicken; when cold cut the 
meat into cubes of about an inch. (Some 
people prefer to use only the white meat, 
but both kinds are good.) To the chicken 
add one half the amount of celery, cut into 
cubes, mix, pour over it a good mayonnaise, 
and serve very cold. 

EGG SALAD 

Peel and cut in two lengthwise six hard- 
boiled eggs, put on a lettuce leaf, add two 
chopped olives and a little parsley, and cover 
with French dressing. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Put two thick slices of canned or fresh 
pineapple on each plate, add a little of the 
juice to a French dressing made by the recipe 
given below, omitting the onions. The pine- 
apple and lettuce should be thoroughly chilled, 
and just before serving enough of the dressing 
to moisten it well should be poured over each 
portion. 



POTATO SALAD 

Boil potatoes until they are waxy, not 
mealy, cut into thick slices or into cubes, and 
add a tablespoonful of finely chopped onion 
to each pint of potatoes. Make triple the 
quantity of French dressing given in the 
recipe, pour half of it over the salad, several 
hours before it is served, and pour the other 
half over it just before it goes to the table. 
It should be veiy cold. 

TOMATO ASPIC 

Boil two carrots in a granite pan with one 
quart of tomato juice, one sliced onion, and 
one red pepper. When carrot is cooked 
tender strain all. Put into the strained 
juice one half box of gelatin which has been 
dissolved in a cup of hot water, and allow 
it to stand until it shows signs of setting, then 
pour one spoonful into each cup mold, add 
a slice of carrot cut out with fancy cutter, 
then more liquid, then slices of olive, and 
more liquid, adding nut meats before the 
mold is full, if these are liked, or other vege- 
tables. Set on the ice to harden. Water- 
cress is pretty around this. 

TOMATO JELLY WITH CELERY 
MAYONNAISE 

Put a can of rich tomatoes through a 
sieve, then cook liquid with a stalk of celery, 
a small piece of onion, a bay leaf, a whole 
small pepper, and a few cloves, cooking until 
the tomato juice is slightly flavored by all 
these ingredients. Then strain through a 
fine cloth or sieve and add one tablespoonful 
of tarragon vinegar for every quart, and a 
box of gelatine which has previously been 
soaked some hours in about half a cup of 
water. Strain and set in individual molds. 
To make a hollow cup shaped form, put a 
little mold inside a large one and pour the 
liquid in between and let the molds set in 
ice until the jelly has hardened. When 
set, pour hot water into the inner mold and 
let stand until the mold loosens from the 
jelly. Fill the hollow mold of tomato jelly 
with celery mayonnaise and pour a little 
more of the liquid tomato on the top. Let 
this harden and then add a tablespoonful 
more of the tomato to each form, so that the 



20 



WHOLESOME COOKING 






mayonnaise and oil will not soak through 
the jelly. Keep molds on ice until time to 
serve. When ready to serve set molds in 
warm water, but remove quickly, so that 
the jelly will not melt much. Turn out 
on lettuce leaves. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

There are many persons who dislike the 
taste of oil, and for them there are cooked 
dressings. One which will keep a long time 
is made as follows: Beat together three 
eggs. Add a half cupful each of warm water 
and vinegar and stir over the fire in a double 
boiler until as thick as custard. Do not 



cook too fast or the mixture will curdle. 
Take off, add three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
stir until blended; add a half teaspoonful of 
salt, and a dash of cayenne, and set aside. 
Keep cold, and when wanted add an equal 
quantity of stiffly whipped cream. 

Mayonnaise 

For a recipe for Mayonnaise, see "Fish 
Sauces," page 9. 

French Dressing 

To every three tablespoonfuls of olive oil 
put one of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, 
a pinch of cayenne, and one teaspoonful of 
onion juice, or a small onion minced very fine. 



EGGS AND CHEESE 

General Directions 

Although eggs are generally served as a breakfast or luncheon dish, a sweet 
omelet often takes the place of puddings or pastry at dinner, and a combination 
of eggs and cheese is also often used as a dinner dish. To ascertain the freshness 
of eggs drop them into a saucepan of cold water; those perfectly fresh will at 
once sink to the bottom of the saucepan, but those not so fresh will show a 
tendency to rise or stand on one end. 



WELSH RAREBIT 

When one tablespoonful of butter is nearly 
melted in a chafing dish, add a pound and a 
half of cheese cut into small pieces; then add 
a teaspoonful of dry mustard and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, mixed in a tablespoonful 
of beer, or cream. Stir constantly, adding 
gradually half a pint of beer, or, if you prefer 
it, cream. Serve piping hot on toast. 

CHEESE FONDU 

One cup of rolled crackers, one cup of milk, 
three quarters of a cup of grated or finely 
sliced cheese, two eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately, one teaspoonful of salt, 
and one saltspoonful of pepper; stir all 
together, bake about twenty minutes in a 
very quick oven. Serve immediately. 

CURRIED EGGS 

Chop one onion and slice thin one tart 
apple. Melt one tablespoonful and a half 



of butter in a saucepan, add apple and onion, 
and cook quickly until a golden brown. 
Stir in one scant teaspoonful of curry powder, 
one third of a teaspoonful of salt, and one 
tablespoonful of flour. When browned add 
gradually one cupful and a quarter of milk 
and continue to stir until thick and smooth. 
Quarter lengthwise five or six hard-boiled 
eggs, lay in the sauce, draw to one side, and 
keep very hot for ten minutes. Serve in a 
border of boiled rice. 

CREAMED EGGS 

Four eggs, one third cupful of milk, one 
half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
butter, and one tablespoonful of finely 
minced green peppers. 

Beat the eggs and salt until well mixed; 
in a smooth pan melt the butter, add milk, 
and when that bubbles pour in the eggs ; keep 
shaking pan and stir so eggs will not settle; 
also turn with a knife, but do not break up 



EGGS AND CHEESE, PASTRY 



21 



too small. As soon as done turn on to rounds 
of soft toast with crust removed or into hot 
dish. Sprinkle pepper over and serve at once. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Excellent for chafing dish 

Four eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonf ul of butter and six tablespoonf uls 
of milk. 

A clean, smooth saucepan or small spider 
that is used only for eggs should be used. 
Melt and heat, but do not brown the butter. 
Beat the eggs without separating. When 
well blended add the milk and salt, pour 
into the pan, then shake and turn so that all 
parts are cooked without perceptible coloring. 
They should be jelly like. Turn on nicely 
toasted bread, with crust trimmed, or serve 
in a hot dish, garnished with a little parsley 
or finely cut shives, if the onion flavor is liked. 

FRENCH OMELET 

Break four eggs into a dish, give them eight 
strokes with a silver fork (no more) to mix 
whites and yolks, add salt and pepper to 
taste. Have a small frying pan on the fire, 
and when it is hot put in a pieoe of butter 
the size of half an egg. When the butter 
is sizzling hot, but not brown, pour in the 
eggs. As they cook lift them with a knife 
around the edges, so that the egg on top can 
slip down to the bottom of the pan. When 
the top is of the consistency of thick boiled 
custard double the omelet over in half and 
serve on a very hot dish. Endless variations 



may be made with this as a foundation; a 
little grated cheese may be put in the omelet 
before it is doubled over, or, if a sweet omelet 
is desired, a little jam may be used in the 
same way. Mushrooms that have been 
previously heated through are very good with 
the eggs, and so are asparagus tips, or oysters. 

POACHED EGGS 

Have the water boiling hard, break the 
eggs one at a time into a saucer and slide 
them from the saucer into the water, which 
should be deep enough to cover them. When 
they are done, remove them in a skimmer 
and let them drain for a few seconds before 
putting them on squares of buttered toast 
to serve. If a tablespoonf ul of vinegar is 
added to the water they are cooked in it will 
keep the eggs white. 

FRIED EGGS 

Eggs should be fried in butter or bacon fat, 
never in lard. The grease should be hot 
before the eggs are put into it, and they should 
be watched carefully to prevent sticking to 
the pan. Serve with bacon or ham, or on 
squares of toast. 

BOILED EGGS 

Boiled eggs take three and a half minutes 
for medium soft, and four and a half to five 
minutes for well done. Hard-boiled eggs 
should be boiled fifteen minutes and then 
dropped into cold water to prevent discol- 
oration. 



PASTRY 

General Directions 

The best kind of a pastry board is of marble, as it keeps the paste at a low 
temperature. Often the marble top of an old table or washstand may be utilized. 
Failing marble, a pastry board should be of hard wood about three feet by two 
feet. French pastry cooks prefer a rolling pin without handles, eighteen inches 
long and from two and a half to three inches in diameter. 



A GOOD PLAIN PASTE 
Two and a half cupfuls of flour, one half 
cupful of butter, one half cupful of lard, one 
half cupful of ice water, half a teaspoonful of 



salt. Mix as quickly as possible. Half a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder should be sifted 
in with the flour. This paste is also improved 
by being made the day before it is needed. 



22 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



PUFF PASTE 

To every pound of good pastry flour allow 
a half saltspoonful of salt and one and a 
quarter pounds of lard and butter mixed, 
in the proportion of three quarters of a pound 
of butter to half a pound of lard. Divide 
the shortening into quarters, and with your 
hands rub one quarter into the sifted flour 
until very thoroughly mixed, moisten with 
ice water, putting as little water as is possible 
to hold the flour and shortening together; 
roll out thin, and dab small pieces of shorten- 
ing over the paste, fold up, and roll out again 
until all the butter and lard are in. (Some 
cooks pound the paste with the roller every 
time they roll it up, but this is not necessary 
for good puff paste.) Add as little flour 
to it, while rolling out, as you can manage 
with, put on a plate, sift flour over the top, 
and put it on ice until the next day. Paste 
is always better if not used the same day it 
is made. When rolling out for use, get it 
as thin as possible. 

MINCEMEAT 

One fresh beef tongue, boiled and chopped 
fine, three quarters of a pound of suet chopped 
fine, two pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds 
of washed currants, one pound of mixed peel, 
chopped fine, one pound chopped figs, two 
pounds best brown sugar, cinnamon and nut- 
meg to taste, a pinch of mace and one of salt, 
one pound of shelled and blanched almonds, 
chopped fine, the juice of three lemons and 
three oranges, the grated rind of one lemon 
and one orange, four pounds of chopped 
apples. 

Mix well, put in a covered stone crock, and 
make it quite moist with brandy or whisky. 
This will keep all winter if moistened occasion- 
ally with liquor. 

CREAM PIE 

Three quarters of a pint of cream, sweet- 
ened and flavored to taste. Beat the whites 
of three eggs to a stiff froth, add these to the 
cream, pour into a deep pie dish lined with 
puff paste, put a rim of paste around it and 
bake until firm. It will look like a custard 
pie, but will be white and very rich. It is 
best cold. 



BANBURIES 

One cupful of finely chopped raisins, one 
square soda cracker rolled fine, one egg, the 
juice of one lemon, one cupful of white sugar. 

Mix well and bake in puff paste, shaped as 
you would for turnovers. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKES 

One quarter of a pound of butter, one 
pound of white sugar, the yolks of six eggs 
well beaten, the juice and grated rind of three 
lemons. 

Cook over steam, or in a double boiler, 
until the thickness of honey. Keep in a 
covered jar in a cool place until wanted; it 
will be good for a couple of weeks. Bake in 
patty pans lined with puff paste, allowing a 
heaping teaspoonful of the mixture to small 
patty pans. Eat cold. 

COCOANUT PIE 

Three eggs, one half cupful of sugar, one 
cupful of grated or prepared cocoanut, one 
pint of milk, one tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
blended with a little of the cold milk. 

Cook a minute or two before putting it into 
a pie plate lined with the pastry, then cook 
in oven long enough to do pastry. 

A CHEAP LEMON PIE 

One egg, one tablespoonful of cornstarch 
dissolved in a little cold water ; add one cupful 
of hot water and a small piece of butter the 
size of half an egg. Boil it all for a minute or 
two, and when cold add one cupful of sugar and 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Cook 
in paste made after the recipe for " Good Plain 
Paste." 

CUSTARD PIE 

One pint of new milk, three eggs well beaten, 
one small teacupful of sugar. Beat all to- 
gether, flavor to taste with nutmeg, line pie 
plate with crust, and bake. Better cold. 

APPLE PIE 

Line pie plate with crust, fill with apples 
sliced very thin, strew over them three quar- 
ters of a cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, or half a grated nutmeg, a little 
water to moisten, and scatter over top small 
pieces of butter. Bake twenty-five minutes. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS 



23 



PUMPKIN PIE 

Peel pumpkin, cut into small pieces and 
jteam until soft, then rub through a colander. 
To four heaping tablespoonfuls of this add 
a gill of cream, a gill of rich milk, half a cup 
of sugar, three well beaten eggs, one table- 
spoonful and a half of butter; season with 
a pinch of salt, half a tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon, a quarter of a tablespoonful of ginger, 
and half a grated nutmeg. The ginger may 
be omitted if desired. This will make one 



large or two small pies. To be eaten cold 
with rich cream. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Two cups of chopped rhubarb (about inch- 
long pieces) and one cup of sugar; mix 
together and allow to stand while you beat 
the yolks of two eggs with one heaping table- 
spoonful of flour. Lay some bits of butter 
over the fruit, add a pinch of salt, then pour 
the egg mixture over and bake with or with- 
out top crust for half an hour. 



PUDDINGS 
General Directions 

In mixing puddings the dry ingredients should be mixed together first, the 
salt and baking powder sifted with the flour, and then the milk and eggs added. 
When the yolks and whites are beaten separately the yolks are put in first; 
the whites go in last of all, and should be stirred in very lightly. 

better if made the day before it is needed. 
Lemons may be substituted for the oranges 
if a lemon pudding is desired. 



SUET PASTE FOR BOILED OR 
STEAMED PUDDINGS 

To two cups of flour and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder take one and a half cupfuls 
of chopped and shredded suet; add enough 
cold water to make into a paste, and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Roll to the thickness 
desired. Very economical and nourishing, 
good for meat pies as well as puddings. 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING 

Four heaping tablespoonfuls of flour mixed 
with a teaspoonful of baking powder, three 
well beaten eggs, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg melted, and two cupfuls of rich milk. 
Mix well and bake in a quick oven for half an 
hour. Must be served as soon as removed 
from oven, or it will fall. Serve hard sauce 
with it. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

The juice and grated rind of two oranges, 
two and a half cupfuls of bread crumbs, one 
cupful of sugar, one and a half cupfuls of 
milk, three eggs well beaten (the pulp of two 
oranges may be used as well as the juice). 

Bake in a buttered pudding dish until well 
set. When it is cold turn it out into a glass 
dish and cover with whipped cream. It is 



SNOW PUDDING 

Dissolve half a package of gelatine in half 
a pint of boiling water, then add half a pint 
of cold water, beat the whites of three eggs 
very light, add a cupful of white sugar, then 
the gelatine water, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, or extract of lemon. 

Beat it with a Dover egg beater in a cool 
place until it is stiff, then pour into a mold 
to set, previously inserting the mold in cold 
water so that the inside will not stick to the 
pudding. When set, turn out and serve with 
a custard made of the yolks of the eggs. 

CUSTARD 

Heat a pint of rich morning's milk, add 
the beaten yolks of three eggs, half a cupful of 
sugar, and a saltspoonful of salt. _ Stir stead- 
ily in a double boiler until it thickens suffi- 
ciently, then put it aside to cool. 

ROLY-POLY PUDDING 

Make a paste, roll out half an inch thick, 
spread thickly with any kind of jam that is 
not too juicy, and roll up in the shape of a 



24 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



jelly roll. Have ready a pudding cloth wrung 
out of boiling water and thickly floured ; roll 
the pudding in it, tie it at each end, place on 
a plate in a steamer, and steam for two hours. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Make a suet paste, or an ordinary plain 
paste if preferred, roll until it is a quarter of 
an inch thick and cut into squares. Pare 
and core some apples, place one in the center 
of each square, fill the apple with sugar, 
butter, and cinnamon, bring the corners of 
the paste together to cover the apple, put in 
a buttered dish in the steamer, and cook half 
an hour, or bake in the oven for the same 
length of time. To be eaten with cream and 
sugar, or hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Make a cornstarch pudding with one quart 
of milk, three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 
and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. When 
done remove about half and flavor to taste; 
add to what you have left in the kettle an 
egg, beaten light, and two ounces of vanilla 
chocolate. Put in a mold, alternating the 
dark and light. Serve with whipped cream. 

SNOWBALL PUDDING 

Cream half a cupful of butter; add one 
cupful of sugar and the whites of four eggs. 
Mix two teaspoonf uls of baking powder with 
two cupfuls of flour. Add this to the above 
mixture in portions alternately with half a 
cupful of sweet milk. Steam twenty minutes. 
Roll in powdered sugar and serve with 
sweetened cream. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Soak one cupful of tapioca in two cupfuls 
of hot water for three hours. Beat yolks of 
three eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
grated rind of half a lemon, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, and a saltspoonful of salt. 
Boil one quart of milk, stir all together, then 
add the beaten whites of three eggs. Bake 
thirty minutes. When the pudding begins to 
bake, stir it a little from the bottom and it 
will not separate. 



STALE SPONGE CAKE PUDDING 

Slice stale sponge cake, put a layer in the 
bottom of a bowl and soak with raspberry 
juice, then put spoonfuls of the canned rasp- 
berries over the cake. Have ready some 
cornstarch made quite thin, pour over the 
cakes, then put another layer of cake and 
fruit, and fill up with the hot cornstarch. 
When cold turn out and serve with cream. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Put one and a half pints of milk on to boil 
in a rice boiler. Mix two tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch in half a pint of cold milk and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and add this to the 
boding milk, stirring rapidly until thick and 
smooth. Take from the fire and add a small 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a dish and 
spread raspberry or currant jelly on top; 
over this put the whites of two eggs, beaten 
to a froth with a little sugar. Put in the 
oven to brown. Serve cold. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING 

Cut slices of bread a medium thickness, 
spread with butter, and lay in a pudding 
dish. Over this put a layer of currants, 
sugar, and nutmeg; then add more bread and 
butter and another layer of currants, etc., 
and repeat until the dish is full. Pour over 
this two eggs, well beaten, one quart of milk, 
and sugar to taste. Bake twenty minutes. 

RICE PUDDING 

One cupful of soft boiled rice, one pint of 
milk, three eggs, one lemon, one pint of sugar, 
butter the size of an egg. 

Separate the eggs and mix the yolks with 
the rice and other ingredients and a little 
grated rind of the lemon. Then beat the 
whites of the eggs and add the sugar and 
juice of the lemon; put on the top and bake. 
Bake the pudding just enough to harden the 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

Four pounds of raisins, four pounds of 
currants, two pounds and a half of suet, two 
pounds and a half of bread crumbs, a quarter 
of a pound of flour; two dozen and a half 
eggs, a pound and a quarter of candied 



PUDDINGS 



25 



peel sliced very thin, half a pint of brandy, 
a tablespoonf ul of mixed spices, two nutmegs, 
grated, and one pound of sugar. Mix all 
dry ingredients together first. Boil for 
twelve hours at least. It may be half boiled 
one day and finished the next. It is better 
if made some weeks before using. 

BOILED APPLE PUFFETS 

Three eggs, one pint of milk, a little salt, 
sufficient flour to thicken as waffle batter, 
one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Fill teacups alternately with layers of 
batter and then of apples, chopped fine. 
Steam one hour. Serve hot with flavored 
cream and sugar. 

KISS PUDDING 

Boil one quart of milk in a custard kettle; 
stir into it four heaping tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and four heaping tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch, dissolved in a little cold milk or 
water and added to the well beaten and 
strained yolks of four eggs. Have the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with one 
teacupful of pulverized sugar and one tea- 
spoonful essence of vanilla; spread on top 
of pudding, put in a quick oven, and brown; 
take from the oven, sprinkle with grated 
cocoanut, and set away to cool. Use cream 
or not, as you choose. 

MARMALADE PUDDING 

One pot of marmalade, one cupful of suet, 
minced fine; a good cupful of grated bread 
or sponge cake, one wineglass full of sherry 
or brandy, some candied lemon or citron 
peel, minced very fine; a grated nutmeg, 
four eggs and one tablespoonful of sugar. 

Pour the marmalade into a bowl, then add 
the bread crumbs and the other ingredients, 
the eggs last. Boil in a well buttered mold 
two hours and a half. Serve with clear 
brandy sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING 

Stone two dozen large table raisins, butter 
a bowl and stick them all over the inside 
of it. Then fill up the mold with a thick 
custard made of milk, three or four eggs, and 
a cupful of finely grated bread, two table- 



spoonfuls of sugar, a few chopped almonds, 
and any flavoring desired. Boil or steam one 
and a half hours. Turn out and serve. 

FIG PUDDING 

Half a pound of figs, well chopped; two 
cupfuls of fine, dry bread crumbs, three 
eggs, half a cupful of sugar, half a cupful of 
chopped beef suet, a pinch of salt, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder dissolved in hot 
water and stirred into one cupful of milk. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, add eggs and 
sugar, well beaten, then add salt and suet, 
and, last of all, the figs. Steam three hours 
in a well buttered mold. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Half a pint even full of tapioca, washed and 
soaked over night in one and a half pints of 
cold water. In the morning cook until it 
looks clear (in the same water), which will 
take half an hour. Then add half a cupful 
of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of extract of lemon, one and a half 
pints of peeled and sliced apples; turn into 
buttered pudding dish and bake one and a 
quarter hours. Let it stand in cool room 
half an hour, in order that the tapioca may 
stiffen a little in losing some of its heat. 
Serve with sugar and whipped cream. 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Lemon Sauce 

Take two cupfuls of sugar and one table- 
spoonful of butter, cream together, and add 
one and a half cupfuls of boiling water and the 
rind and juice of one lemon. 

Hard Sauce 

Beat to a cream one half cupful of butter, 
adding gradually one cupful of white sugar. 
Stir until very smooth. Put in a little mound 
in a glass dish, and grate nutmeg over the top. 

Foam Sauce 

Take one cupful of white sugar and one 
third cupful of butter, cream together, add one 
beaten egg, and stir all together until light, 
then add a teaspoonful of vanilla. Five min- 
utes before sauce is needed pour on boiling 



26 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



water, stirring constantly. Add enough water 
to make a pint of sauce. 

Queen Sauce 
Heat two cupfuls of rich milk to a scalding 
point, add four tablespoonf uls of sugar (white) : 
wet one tablespoonf ul of cornstarch with cold 
milk and stir it in. When sauce thickens, beat 
in whites of two eggs beaten stiff, a few drops 
of extract of bitter almonds and half a grated 
nutmeg. Take sauce from the fire, put it in 



a jug, and stand the jug in boiling water 
to keep warm, but not to cook, until it is 
wanted. 

Congress Sauce 
Beat the white and yolk of one egg sepa- 
rately, then together, and add one cup of 
sugar and butter the size of a walnut. Put in 
a bowl over a boiling teakettle on the back of 
a range for twenty minutes without stirring; 
add one wineglassful of sherry, and serve. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES 
General Directions 

In making breakfast cakes the rule given for puddings should be followed, 
that is, the dry ingredients should be mixed together first and the liquids added. 
If sugar is used it should be put in after the salt, baking powder, and flour have 
been sifted together. A hot oven is required for all breakfast cakes of the 
popover, muffin, or gem variety; scones cook more slowly. For waffles or 
pancakes the waffle iron and griddle should be very hot. 

BREAD 

Boil three or four small potatoes. Have 
a quart of sifted flour ready in a bowl; make 
a well in the center. When the potatoes 
are cooked soft, pour about half a teacupful 
of the boiling potato water into the flour. 
Let it stand until you mash the potatoes; 
add to them two cups of milk and two cups 
of water, luke warm; put in a large teaspoon- 
ful of lard or butter and a teaspoonful of 
salt, and, if desired, a tablespoonful of sugar. 
Stir well into the flour. Soak a cake of yeast 
in luke-warm water until it dissolves, and 
add that to the mixture the last thing. If 
you set it at eight in the evening it will be 
ready to be made into loaves in the morning. 
After it is made into loaves it should rise 
twenty minutes before being put in the oven. 
Bread should rise in a warm (not hot) 
place. If too cold, your bread will be heavy; 
if too hot, it will be sour. It should rise to 
twice its original size before forming into 
loaves. Do not have loaves too large for 
the pan, or they will be a bad shape. Bake 
ordinary loaves of bread forty minutes in a 
slow oven. When you take your bread from 
the oven rub over with melted butter, as it 
makes the crust tender and imparts a nice 



flavor to it. Bread should be kept in a 
stone jar and well covered. 

SIMPLE GRAHAM BREAD 

Two cupfuls of unsifted (finely milled) 
graham flour, one cupful of warm milk and 
water, half a teaspoonful of salt, two 
teaspoonf uls of sugar, one cake of compressed 
yeast, one teaspoonful of sweet lard or butter. 

Soak the yeast over night in the cold water. 
In the morning pour off the water, add sugar, 
rub salt and shortening into the flour, add 
yeast to the liquid, beat into flour, cover, 
and let stand until double its bulk. Then 
beat again, pour into greased pan, let stand 
about thirty to forty minutes, then bake 
until straw comes out clean. 

MUFFINS 

One third of a cup of butter, one fourth 
of a cup of sugar, and the same of salt, one 
egg, two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one cupful of milk. 

Beat butter, sugar, and egg until creamy. 
Add the milk, a little at a time, stirring in 
gradually the flour, which has been sifted 
twice with salt and baking powder. Grease 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES 



27 



the muffin pans; heat slightly, put in the 
mixture, and bake quickly. 

WAFFLES 

Mix one pint of sifted flour into a smooth 
Daste with one pint of milk. Beat in a 
tablespoonful of butter and a saltspoonful of 
salt, and, lastly, two eggs beaten light. 
Have waffle iron hot and ready greased, pour 
in enough batter to cover the lower side and 
close the upper one gently down upon it. 
Keep over fire for half a minute and turn 
over for same length of time. Remove, and 
place in the oven a few moments to crisp. 

CORN BREAD 

In making corn bread use shallow pans 
and grease them thickly, as the batter has a 
tendency to cling to the sides and bottom. 
Scald one pint of fine meal with just enough 
boiling water to moisten, adding one large 
spoonful of shortening and a scant teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Cover closely and set aside until 
warm, then add three well beaten eggs, a 
pint of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, and enough milk to make a thin 
batter. Do not have it more than an inch 
deep in the pans — less is better — for much 
of the delicacy of corn bread is due to its 
thin, crusty crispness. Bake in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS 

One and a half cupfuls of graham flour, 
three fourths cupful of flour, one fourth cupful 
of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one half teaspoonful of salt. 

Sift all together and mix with a cupful 
of milk. Beat well and drop into lightly 
greased hot gem pans. Bake for twenty 
minutes. This recipe makes one dozen gems. 

SODA BISCUITS 

Two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, butter the size of half an 
egg, one saltspoonful of salt, and a pint of 
cream or very rich milk. 

Flour the board sufficiently to prevent 
the dough sticking, roll out and cut with a 
round cutter into cakes an inch and a half 
in thickness. Let them rise for ten minutes 
and bake in a rather hot oven. 



POPOVERS 

To every egg take one cupful of milk, one 
cupful of flour, with a teaspoonful of baking 
powder, and one tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Stir all together. Heat the pop- 
over pans very hot in the oven, grease them 
well, pour in the mixture until the holes are 
half full, and bake for twenty minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

Good buckwheat cakes are a rarity. Get 
some unadulterated buckwheat flour. To a 
quart of warm water allow two cupfuls of this 
and half a yeast cake. Let rise over night 
and add in the morning, just before cooking, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, a teaspoonful of 
salt, and two teaspoonfuls of molasses or 
sugar. The cakes should spread very thin, 
be full of airholes and are of inimitable flavor 
when eaten fresh from the griddle, with butter 
and the best of sirup. 

TEA ROLLS 

One quart of flour, one tablespoonful of 
lard, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, a little salt, one third 
cake of compressed yeast dissolved in half 
a cupful of warm water, one pint of boiling 
milk. 

All the ingredients should be stirred in with 
the boiling milk except the yeast, which is 
added when the sponge is a little cool. Knead 
down three or four times. Half an hour 
before rolls are wanted, roll out and cut with 
cake cutter. Fold together with piece of 
butter in middle; let them rise till light, then 
brush over with an egg and bake. 

CORN-MEAL PANCAKES 

Take two cupfuls of corn meal and a 
teaspoonful of salt; pour over it boiling 
water to make a batter, let stand to "cool, 
then add the yolks of three eggs, beaten, 
enough flour to make of the proper con- 
sistency, and one and a half teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Just before baking add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. 

SOUR-MILK PANCAKES 

One pint of sour milk, one and a half 
cupfuls of bread crumbs, one tablespoonful 



28 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



of melted butter, a little salt, three eggs, 
enough flour to give good consistency, and 
half a teaspoonful of soda. 

FRENCH PANCAKES 

Two eggs, two ounces of butter, two ounces 
sifted sugar, two ounces flour, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder, half a pint of new milk. 
Mix thoroughly and bake in buttered plates 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

ENGLISH PANCAKES 

Three eggs, half a cupful of sugar, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, half a pound of currants, 
and nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then 
add the other ingredients and enough flour 
to make a thin batter. Fry in lard. This 
is a good substitute for a pudding. 

JOHNNY CAKE 

One quarter cupful of butter, one quarter 
cupful of sugar, one egg, one cupful of sweet 



milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one cupful of corn meal, one cupful of flour, 
and a saltspoonful of salt. Bake in a greased 
biscuit tin and when done cut in squares 
and send to the table hot. 

FANNIE CAKE 

One cupful of milk, three cupfuls of flour, 
half a cupful of sugar, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar. Mix well and bake in a deep biscuit 
pan. Serve warm for tea. 

MUFFINS 

Warm a piece of butter the size of a hen's 
egg in one pint of milk. When it is melted, 
set off to cool, then stir in four beaten eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls strong homemade yeast 
and enough flour to make a thick batter. 
Cover and set it to rise. If wanted for 
breakfast, set the last thing at night; if for 
tea, set just before dinner. When about to 
bake them, stir in a little bit of soda, dissolved. 
Bake on a hot griddle in muffin rings. Slip 
a knife under them to turn. 



CAKES 
General Directions 

In cakemaking the following simple rules should be observed. The butter 
should first be stirred to a cream and then the sugar added. When these 
ingredients are well mixed add milk, if there is any in the recipe, then a little 
of the flour, then half of the well beaten eggs, then flour and eggs alternately 
until all are in. The baking powder should be sifted with the flour. If the eggs 
are beaten separately, put in the yolks alternately with the flour and add beaten 
whites last; stir them in very lightly. The flavoring should be added just 
before baking. See that the tins are well greased, and, if no time allowance is 
given for baking, try the cake by inserting a clean straw in it; if the straw comes 
out without any batter adhering to it, the cake is baked. 



HICKORY-NUT CAKE 

Two cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of 
butter, three quarters of a cupful of milk, 
two cupfuls of flour, whites of four eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and one 
cupful of nut meats. 



FRENCH CAKE 

One-half cupful of butter, one cupful of 
milk, two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of 
flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful extract 
of vanilla or lemon, three tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder. 



CAKES 



29 



DELICATE CAKE 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, two 
large teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, whites of seven 
eggs, and one teaspoonful of extract of lemon. 
Bake in layer tins. 

Filling for Delicate Cake 

Take half a cupful of thick sour cream and 
whip until thick, but be careful it does not 
go to butter; add half a cupful of sugar and 
whip again, one teaspoonful of extract of 
vanilla, and three quarters of a cupful of 
almonds, blanched and chopped fine. Mix 
all together and spread between two thick 
layers of delicate cake. Frost all over with 
boiled icing and put blanched almonds on top. 

Caramel Filling 

Three quarters of a cupful of cream, one 
and a half cupfuls of brown sugar, a small 

Eiece of butter; mix together, boil for about 
alf an hour or until it gets thick; cool a 
little on a plate and if it seems firm, remove 
from the stove, stir in one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, and stir occasionally until cool, 
then use for filling and for the top of the cake. 
The cake for this filling should be delicate 
cake. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, ten eggs, 
two cupfuls of flour, one and a half teaspoon- 
fuls of extract of vanilla. This makes two 
cakes. Beat the sugar and eggs together for 
twenty minutes, then sift in the flour and 
stir very lightly. Grease the baking tins. 
Use half the quantity for a medium sized 
cake. This is a particularly good recipe. 

BANANA JELLY CAKE 

Beat the whites of two eggs and one cupful 
of powdered sugar together until very light, 
spread on each layer of French cake — the 
recipe of which is given above — and place 
over it bananas cut in thin slices, the pieces 
joining each other closely, using three large 
bananas; sprinkle each layer with lemon 
juice and grated peel, and stir in a little of the 
peel in the frosting over the top of the cake, 
using the rind and juice of one lemon in all. 



ANGEL FOOD 

Take flour and sift five times, then measure 
one cup even full, add one teaspoon a little 
more than even full of cream of tartar, and 
sift the flour and cream of tartar twice, the 
last time on to a plate. Of fine granulated 
sugar take one and a half cupfuls, measured 
after it has been sifted five times, last time 
on to a plate. Take whites of twelve eggs 
on a large platter and beat until very light, 
add the sugar to the eggs half at a time and 
beat thoroughly, then add the flour a little 
at a time, and one large teaspoonful of 
extract of vanilla. Bake in an angel-food 
tin with a cover. Line the bottom of the 
tin with paper. Have the grate in the 
bottom of the oven, also a small dish of 
water (this will keep the cake from burning). 
Have a moderate oven and bake about 
sixty minutes. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

This cake is made exactly like the angel 
food above except that two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla are used and three or four drops of 
extract of bitter almonds. Then, just before 
turning the mixture into the angel-food 
tin, add the yolks of six eggs that have been 
well beaten. Watch closely while baking 
and remove the cover before the cake rises 
to it. Bake from forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Both the above cakes are rather expensive, 
but every housekeeper likes to have a recipe 
for a cake that is particularly good, even if 
it is only used on "state occasions." 

WHITE CAKE 

One cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one and a half cupfuls of flour, half 
a cupful of milk, whites of three eggs, two 
small teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful extract of lemon, and a few 
drops of extract of bitter almonds. 

PLUM CAKE 

One pound of butter, one pound of brown 
sugar, one pound of flour, one pound of 
raisins, two pounds of currants, one pound 
of blanched almonds, half a pound of mixed 
peel, two blades of mace, two nutmegs, six 
cloves, ground, twelve eggs, and a glassful 



30 



WHOLESOME COOKING 



of brandy. Bake four hours. Put greased 
paper in the pans. 

NUT CAKE 

One cupful of butler, two and a half cupfuls 
of sugar, one cupful of milk, four cupfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, six eggs. 
When baked, put frosting and walnut meats 
on top. This makes two large cakes. 

VANITY CAKE 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, four tea- 
spoonfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of 
butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one and a half cupfuls of flour. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

Filling for Vanity Cake 

Half a cupful of sugar, two eggs, two 
grated apples, and juice and grated rind of 
one lemon; stir all together; let boil for five 
minutes, stirring all the time. Spread on 
the cake while warm. 

JELLY ROLL 

Line the bottom of a very shallow pan with 
buttered paper, and grease the sides of the 
pan also. Break three eggs in a bowl and 
beat until very, very light, adding gradually 
one cupful of sifted powdered sugar. Still 
beating hard, add alternately one quarter 
of a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
cold water, one cupful of sifted pastry flour 
mixed with one scant teaspoonful of baking 
powder, and, last of all, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter. Spread this mixture evenly 
over the papered pan and bake about twelve 
minutes in a moderate oven. Immediately 
remove the cake from the pan, reversing it 
on a board. Carefully peel off the paper, 
moistening it with water if it sticks. Cover 
quickly with jelly or jam, which has been 
warmed just enough to admit of spreading. 
Roll, and pin a band of paper round it until 
the cake is oold, then dust the top with pow- 
dered sugar. Spreading and rolling must be 
done quickly, as the cake will eraefc if rolled 
after cooling. 



CHOCOLATE WALNUT CAKE 

Six eggs, one cupful of sugar, three quarters 
of a cupful of flour, three quarters of a cup- 
ful of chocolate, one and one half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, and sufficient vanilla 
to flavor. 

Bake in a large milk pan and split in two 
when cool. Fill with this mixture: Boil 
together one cupful of milk and one cupful of 
chopped nuts, then add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, sugar to taste, and a little brandy 
or vanilla. Use two whites for chocolate 
icing. 

ORANGE LAYER CAKE 

Cream together two thirds of a cupful of 
butter and two cupfuls of sugar, and add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Grate the rind and 
scoop out pulp and juice from two oranges, 
adding sufficient water to make one cupful. 
Add this to the butter and eggs, alternating 
with three cupfuls and a half of sifted flour. 
Lastly, add the stiffly whipped whites of the 
eggs, one third of a teaspoonful of salt, and 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake 
in three layers. For a filling beat one egg 
until very light and thick. Add the grated 
rind and half the strained juice of an orange, 
with half a saltspoonful of salt and sufficient 
powdered sugar to make very thick. 

DAISY CAKES 

Cream one quarter of a pound of butter 
with six ounces of sifted powdered sugar; 
add gradually one well beaten egg, the grated 
rind of an orange, one half of a cupful of cold 
water, and one cupful of pastry flour sifted 
twice, with one scant teaspoonful of baking 
powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. 
Beat steadily for ten minutes, then turn into 
little fluted patty pans well buttered, and 
bake in a moderate oven until nicely colored. 
When cold ice with fondant flavored with 
orange extract, and on the center of each make 
a daisy with strips of blanched almonds, the 
center filled with finely chopped candied 
orange peel. 

GINGERBREAD 

One cupful of molasses, one half cupful of 
brown sugar, one half cupful of butter 
warmed in one pint of milk, four egga, one 



CAKES 



31 



and a half tablcspoonfuls of ground ginger, 
one tablespoonful each of ground cinnamon 
and nutmeg, one cupful of raisins, one tea- 
spoonful extract of lemon, and enough flour 
to make a stiff batter. Bake in a deep tin 
very slowly. Put a teaspoonful of baking 
powder in the flour before it is sifted. 

JUMBLES 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, 
one cupful of cold water, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, and enough flour to roll out. 
Cut into rounds, as thin as you can roll them, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

CRULLERS 

One pound of butter, one and a half pounds 
of sugar, three pounds of flour with three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, twelve eggs, 
one grated nutmeg. Roll very thin and fry 



in deep lard. This is a very rich and deli- 
cious recipe. 

BEST COOKIES 

Two and a half cupfuls of butter, three 
cupfuls of white sugar, creamed with the 
butter, five cupfuls of flour, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one cupful of milk, 
and enough flour to enable you to roll the 
cakes very thin on the board. Cut into 
rounds, sprinkle sugar on the top, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one and 
a quarter cupfuls of sweet milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one half teaspoonful 
of salt, enough flour to hold them together. 
Fry when they are very soft in deep lard, 
boiling hot. 



Soups *AGE 

Bean, dried 3 

Celery and onion 5 

Chicken 4 

Clam 5 

Clam, or mushroom ... 5 

Clear, or consomme ... 3 

Consomme, or clear ... 3 

Consornm6, rich 3 

Corn, canned 4 

Croutons for soup .... 5 

Duchess 5 

Mushroom or clam .... 5 

Onion 5 

Onion and celery 5 

Oyster 4 

Pea, split 5 

Potato 4 

Rice and tomato 5 

Tomato, cream 4 

Turkey, or chicken .... 4 

Vegetable, French 4 

White soup stock 5 

Fish 

Baked fish, with dressing 6 

Clams, scalloped 9 



INDEX 

PAGE 

Codfish a la cr£me .... 7 

Crabs, creamed 8 

Dressing for baked fish . 6 

Finnan haddie 8 

Fried fish 7 

Lobster, cold boiled ... 9 

Mackerel, creamed salt 7 

Oyster patties S 

Oysters, creamed 8 

Oysters, scalloped 8 

Pigs in blanket 8 

Salmon, creamed 8 

Shad roe, broiled 7 

Smelts, fried 8 

Trout, boiled 6 

White fish, boiled 7 

White fish, planked ... 7 

Fish Sauces 

Drawn butter with eggs 9 

Maitre d'hetel butter. . 9 

Mayonnaise 9 

Tartar sauce 9 

Tomato sauce 9 

Meats 

Beef, roast 9 



PAGE 

Beef heart, stewed. ... 12 

Beef or veal loaf 11 

Beefsteak 10 

Beefsteak pudding . ... 12 

Calf 's brains, creamed . 12 

Chicken, roast 10 

Drippings, to clarif y .. . 13 

Fillet of veal, roast. ... 10 

Goose, stuffed roast ... 11 

Heart, beef, stewed. ... 12 

Lamb or mutton, roast . 10 

Liver a la Begue 13 

Mutton or lamb, roast. 10 

Pigeon pie 12 

Pork, roast 10 

Rabbit, jugged 12 

Rabbit stew 11 

Stew, Spanish 12 

Tripe a la Caen 13 

Turkey, roast 10 

Veal, roast fillet of 10 

Veal birds 11 

Veal cutlets with tomato 

sauce 11 

Veal or beef loaf 11 

Yorkshire pudding .... 10 



32 



INDEX 



Meat Sauces page 

Bread sauce 14 

Gravy 13 

Mint sauce 14 

Vegetables 

Beets, buttered 16 

Cabbage, hot creamed . 15 

Carrots in casserole ... . 15 

Celery, creamed 15 

Corn fritters 15 

Egg plant, fried 15 

Onions, breaded 14 

Onions, Saratoga 15 

Parsnips, fricassee of . . . 15 

Potato cones 18 

Potato espagnal, baked 17 

Potato roses 18 

Potatoes, baked 16 

Potatoes, creamed 17 

Potatoes, curried 17 

Potatoes, hashed brown 18 

Potatoes, mashed 16 

Potatoes, O'Brien 17 

Potatoes, raw fried . ... 17 
Potatoes, rules for boil- 
ing and baking 16 

Potatoes, stuffed baked 16 

Potatoes with cheese ... 18 
Spaghetti and cheese 

romaine 15 

Spaghetti, Italian 14 

Spinach a la creme .... 16 

Succotash 14 

Sweet potato compote. 17 
Sweet potatoes, scal- 
loped 17 

Tomatoes, fried 15 

Tomatoes, scalloped ... 16 

Salads 

Cauliflower 18 

Chicken 19 

Cold slaw with sour 

cream 19 

Egg 19 

Grape 19 

Grape fruit and nut .... 18 

Nut and grape fruit .... 18 

Pineapple 19 

Potato 19 

Tomato aspic 19 

Tomato jelly with cel- 
ery mayonnaise 19 



Salad Dressings page 

Cooked 20 

French... 20 

Mayonnaise 9 

Eggs and Cheese 

Cheese f ondu 20 

Eggs, boiled 21 

Eggs, creamed 20 

Eggs, curried 20 

Eggs, fried 21 

Eggs, poached 21 

Eggs, scrambled 21 

Omelet, French 21 

Welsh rarebit 20 

Pastry 

Apple pie 22 

Banburies 22 

Cheese cakes, lemon. . . 22 

Cocoanut pie 22 

Cream pie 22 

Custard pie 22 

Lemon cheese cakes ... 22 

Lemon pie, a cheap . . 22 

Mincemeat 22 

Paste, a good plain .... 21 

Paste, puff. 22 

Pumpkin pie 23 

Rhubarb pie 23 

Puddings 

Apple dumplings 24 

Apple puff ets, boiled . . 25 

Apple tapioca 25 

Baked batter 25 

Bread and butter 25 

Cabinet 25 

Chocolate 24 

Cornstarch 24 

Custard, boiled 23 

Fig 25 

Kiss 25 

Marmalade 25 

Orange 23 

Plum, English 24 

Rice 24 

Roly-poly 23 

Snow 23 

Snowball 24 

Sponge cake, stale 24 

Suet paste 23 

Tapioca 24 



Pudding Sauces page 

Congress 26 

Foam 25 

Hard 25 

Lemon 25 

Queen 26 

Bread and Breakfast 
Cakes 

Bread 26 

Buckwheat cakes 27 

Corn bread 27 

Fannie cake 28 

Graham bread, simple. 26 

Graham gems 27 

Johnny cake 28 

Muffins No. 1 26 

Muffins No. 2 28 

Pancakes, corn-meal ... 27 

Pancakes, English 28 

Pancakes, French 28 

Pancakes, sour-milk ... 27 

Popovers 27 

Rolls, tea 27 

Soda biscuits 27 

Tea rolls 27 

Waffles 27 

Cakes 

Angel food 29 

Banana jelly cake 29 

Chocolate walnut cake . 30 

Cookies, best 31 

Crullers 31 

Daisy cake 30 

Delicate cake 29 

Doughnuts 31 

Filling, caramel 29 

Filling for delicate cake 29 

Filling for vanity cake 30 

French cake 28 

Gingerbread 30 

Hickory-nut cake 28 

Jelly roll 30 

Jumbles 31 

Nut cake 30 

Orange layer cake 30 

Plum cake 29 

Sponge cake 29 

Sunshine cake 29 

Vanity cake 30 

White cake 29 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 489 877 1 



