
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



KD7(86 



Shelf. .:jg^...g; ^ g 



AccBSsicm s , >4^^^^t3 ^ 



The Boston-Library Society. 

Organized 1792. Incorporated 1794. 
114, NEWBURY STREET. 



Added./Ux<V--?---s?/., 19/^ .^J/ot^. , 




To be returned in five weeks. A fine of one cen 



will be charged for each day this volume is kept Jifi^ia' 






that time. 



Digitized by 



Goigle 






Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANNING 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 



A. W. BITTING, M.D. 
K. G. BITTING, M.S. 







NATIONAL CANNERS ASSOCIATION 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 



Digitized by 



Google 



K3)7(a 



HARVARD 

[university] 

LIBRARY 
MAR 5 IMl 



Copyright, 1916 
By a. W. Bitting 



PRINTED BY 

NATIONAL CAPITAL PRESS, INC. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 

Introductory 9 

Historical . 11 

Commercial Canning 14 

Home Canning 14 

Principles of Canning 15 

The Container 17 

Methods in Commercial Canning 18 

Grading — Washing — ^Blanching — ^Filling the Cans — 
Exhausting — Closing the Can. 

Processing , 29 

Factory Sanitation 33 

Size of Cans 36 

Label 38 

Syrup 41 

Brine 42 

Keeping Quality 43 

Fruits 45 

Apples — Apple Butter — Apple Cider-^Apricots — 
Blackberries — Blueberries — Cherries — Figs — Goose- 
berries — Grapes — Loganberries — Peaches — Pears — 
Pineapple — Plums — Prunes — Raspberries — Straw- 
berries — Olives. 

Vegetables . . . ' 57 

Asparagus — Artichokes — Artichoke Hearts — String 
Beans — Soaked Lima Beans — Beets — Carrots — Corn 
— Olura — Peas — Chiles — Pimienta — Pumpkin — 
Rhubarb — Spinach — Squash — Sweet Potatoes — To- 
matoes — Turnips. 

3 



Digitized by 



Google 



4 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Marine Products 77 

Clams — Clam Chowder — Razor Clams — Crabs — Oys- 
ters — Salmon — Sardines — Shad Roe — Shrimp — Tuna 
—Fish Flakes. 

Meats 85 

Milk 87 

Specialties 90 

Beans — Hominy — Sauer Kraut — Soup. 

HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 
Introductory 94 

Kinds of Food 96 

Soup — Fish and Shellfish — Meats — Vegetables — 
Fruits — Specialties — Readymade Entrees. 

Sauces 103 

Cream — Bechamel — Bearnaise — Bearnaise Tomato — 
Espanola — HoUandaise — Fish — Butter — Tomato — 
Mushroom — East India — Cold Meat. 

Salad Dressings 106 

French — Cream Mayonnaise — Cream — Boiled Ma- 
yonnaise — Tartar — Swiss — Remoulade — Roquefort — 
Vinaigrette. 

Garnishes 1C9 

Celery — Beets — Chives — Eggs — Lemons — Olives — 
Radishes — Shrimp — Parsley — Pimientas. 

Appetizers Ill 

Lobster Cocktail — Crab Cocktail — Canapes — Oriental 
— India — Spanish — Asparagus — Hams — Caviare — 
Shrimp — Rolls with Ham — Rolls with Mayonnaise — 
Tongue — Oyster — Oysters on Toast — Savory Butter 
for Canapes — Olive Cream for Sandwiches — Plain 
Canapes — Mayonnaise— Piquante Sandwiches — Rus- 
sian Canapes, 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 5 

Pastes for Appetizers 117 

Pimienta Butter — Pimienta Cream — Cream Cheese — 
Shrimp Butter. 

Soups 118 

Clam Chowder — Cream of Kornlet — Hungarian 
Goulash — Artichoke Pur6e — Clam Broth — Consom- 
me — Carrot — Cream of Tomato — Sweet Potato Pur^e 
— Quickly Prepared — Consomme with Carrots — 
Puree of Green Peas — Pur6e of Beans — Pur6e of 
Tomatoes. 

Soup Accessories 124 

Pulled Bread — Crisped Bread — Crisped Crackers — 
Bread Sticks — Cheese Straws — Noodles — Noodle 
Balls — Croutons — Egg Balls — Bread Crusts — Cheese 
Sticks — Chichen Forcemeat Balls — Chicken Force- 
meat — Egg Dumplings — Mushroom Forcemeat — 
Cheese Balls — Quenelles — Dumplings — German 
Paste — Fried Gravy Crusts — Vegetable Cream — 
Cheese Crackers — Egg Threads — Thickening. 

Entrees 129 

Chicken Terrapin — Chicken and Oysters — Salmi of 
Duck — Creamed Chicken — Chicken Croquettes — 
Meat Croquettes — Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms 
— Beef Pilau — Beef Fricassee— Creamed Corn Beef — 
Meat Pie — Creamed Salmon in Rice — Stuffed Pota- 
toes—Meat Rissoles — Lamb and Peas — Meat Rolls — 
Lamb Croquettes — Crabs in Ramekins — Fish Roe 
Croquettes — Italian Chicken — Grilled Sardines — 
Deviled Sardines — Salmon Balls — Spiced Tongue — 
Sardine Loaf — Fried Sardines — Creamed Chicken and 
Peas — Creamed Salmon — Fish with Italian Sauce — 
Spanish Tongue — Mexican Meat Balls — Deviled 
Meat — Pilchers — Lobster — Salmon Timbales — 
Polentas — Fish Ramekins — Ham and Sausage — Veal 
Terrapin — Fish Roe Ramekins — Turkey — Italian 
Cakes — Shrimp Fricassee — Oyster Rabbit — Creole 
Lamb Hash — Chicken Ramekins — Clam Croquettes 
— Chicken with Sauce — Cannelon of Beef — Meat 
Curry — Baked Sweetbreads — Chicken in Spinach. 



Digitized by 



Google 



6 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 
Vegetables 142 

Artichokes — Genoese Artichokes — Artichoke Hearts 
— Stuffed Artichokes — Asparagus — Asparagus in 
Croustades — Tomatoes — String Beans — Lima Beans 
— Celery with Cream — Carrots with Cream — Spinach 
— Kornlet Fritters — Baked Beans — Kidney Beans — 
Beets — Red Kidney Beans — Sweet Potatoes — Sweet 
Potatoes Baked — Spaghetti — Peas — Scalloped Toma- 
toes — Peas with Egg Plant — Corn — Spanish Rice — 
Lima Beans — ^Tomatoes with Rice — Succotash — 
Spanish Okra — Pur^e of Peas — Hominy — Tomatoes 
and Peppers — Okra — Fried Hominy — Cornmeal 
Mush — Creamed Mushrooms — Sauer Kraut with 
Sausage — Creamed Cabbage — Stuffed Peppers — Hun- 
gary Onions — Creamed Turnips — Mashed Turnips — 
Flemish Asparagus. 

Salads 151 

Artichokes — Asparagus — Artichoke and Bean — Bean 
— String Bean — Mixed Vegetable — Swiss Beet — 
Cauliflower — Vienna — Spanish — Cherry — Neapolitan 
— Chicken — California— Swedish — Oyster — Tuna — 
Tuna Jellied — Fish — Leftover — Pear — Celery and 
Tuna — Pimienta and Tomato — Pea — Portuguese — 
Pimienta — Mexican Pineapple — Pineapple and Grape- 
fruit — Lobster — Pineapple and Nut — Fish Roe — 
Tomato Jelly — Salmon — Egyptian — Shrimp — Spin- 
ach — Tomato — Polish — Sardine. 

Desserts 161 

Pears and Rice — Strawberries and Macaroons — Berry 
Pudding — Peach Conserve — Peaches and Macaroons 
— Surprise Puffs — Apricot Souffle — Apple Pudding — 
Cherry Souffl6 — Pineapple Mousse — Dumplings — Apri- 
cots — Apple Pudding — ^Jam Pudding — Fruit Bavarian 
Cream — Fig Pudding — Berry Ice — Prune Short Cake 
— Fruit Pudding — Berry Ice Cream — Fruit Gelatin — 
Fruit and Custard — Peach Fritters — Cherry Boats 
— Raspberry Layer — Prune Souffle — Pineapple in Ice 
Cream — Pineapple Fritters — Strawberry Charlotte — 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 7 

Apricot Meringue — Sliced Pears — Apple Tarts — 
Peach Cake — Marquise Pudding — Plum Pudding — 
Fruit Pudding — Pumpkin Pie — Peach Pudding — Ice 
Cream — Pastry — Tarts — Pastry Sq uares — Du mp- 
lings — Short Cake — Jam Roly-poly — Raspberry 
Pur6e — Fruit Rosettes — Desserts foi* Children — 
Macaroon and Cream — Bavarian Cream with Custard 
— Bavarian Cream with Fruit — Fruit Ices — Fruit and 
Ice Cream — Vanilla Ice Cream — Cherries — Cream — 
Orange Ice Cream — Grated Pineapple — Combina- 
tions. 

Canned Fruit for Preserves and Jams 177 

Bibliography 183 

Food Poisoning 185 



Digitized by 



Google 




NICOLAS APPERT 

1750-1841 

Father of the Art of Canning 



Digitized by 



Google 



INTRODUCTORY 

The object of this brief treatise is to acquaint those who 
are interested in how their foods are prepared with the 
methods employed in modern canning, and to indicate to 
those who use canned products that these should be con- 
sidered stock upon which to build culinary operations, 
rather than as foods that are complete and ready for use. 

Nothing has done more to lighten the burden of the 
kitchen than the modern cannery. By using highly 
specialized machinery, it is possible to save labor, to handle 
large quantities of a raw product, to use sanitary methods, 
and to prepare food better than it is possible to do in most 
homes. Each pea-viner will do as much work as a hundred 
or more women, and do it better. Likewise other 
machines, do what scores would have to labor hard to 
accomplish. In removing this drudgery, they make life 
more livable. The taking of the work away from home 
and away from observation, except to a comparatively 
few, has developed a lurking suspicion that possibly some 
of the material used and the care taken in its preparation 
are not all that they should be, and this suspicion has 
grown to a prejudice against canned foods. A presentation 
of the facts may serve to correct some of these mis- 
apprehensions. 

The most serious error in the use of canned foods has 
been to consider the food ready to serve, or needing only 
to be heated, or given some other equally simple manipula- 
tion. The work of the canner has been to collect the raw 
material, to do the rough work, to get rid of the waste, 
and to deliver the food in the best possible condition for 
the housewife or a chef to exercise culinary skill in its 
dressing or final preparation. The difference between 
good dining, enjoying one's meals, and just eating, is in 
the appetizing way in which the dishes are prepared and 
served. An extra price is paid at the better hotels and 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

restaurants for the sauces, relishes, etc., that give zest and 
finish to the dishes. The contents of the can, with the 
minimum of preparation are, as a rule, ready for consump- 
tion, but through additional treatment may become more 
appetizing and inviting. 

The brief outline of what are recognized as proper sani- 
tary measures for canneries is incorporated as it will serve 
as a guide when visiting any food producing establishment. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 11 

MANUFACTURING CANNED 
FOODS 

HISTORICAL 

Among the military measures enacted by the French 
government near the end of the eighteenth century, was 
the offering of a bounty of 12,000 francs for an improved 
method of preserving foods. The object was to secure 
better quality and to reduce the loss in waste and spoilage 
in foods used in military and naval stores. This bounty 
seemed generous at the time and in fact was sufficient to 
attract the attention of some capable men. Nicholas 
Appert, an expert confectioner, brewer, distiller, and chef 
was among those who began experimenting; he worked 
from 1795 until 1804 before he attained his first success 
which consisted in heating the product and then hermeti- 
cally sealing the container. He continued his efforts, 
using many different substances, and so perfected the art 
that in 1810 he published the results. He was awarded 
the prize and almost universally honored as the discoverer 
of the art of canning. Appert did his work so thoroughly, 
and the method was so simple that others began using it 
as early as 1815, and it was put into commercial practice 
in 1820. Although conceived primarily as a war measure, 
the possibilities and advantages of having food preserved 
in such a wholesome, palatable manner attracted attention 
immediately to its use in the household. The use of such 
foods has increased until the value of the product in 
this country alone amounts to about $250 C 00,000 annually. 

Canning is the art of preserving a food through steriliza- 
tion by heat, and maintaining it in that condition in a 
hermetically sealed container. In its highest develop- 
ment it is an attempt to maintain the food in as nearly the 
natural condition as possible, or in the condition in which 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

it is usually consumed. Previous to the introduction of 
this method, resort had to be made to pickling either in 
salt or vinegar, to drying, to smoking, and to preserving 
in sugar. Each of these methods was applicable to certain 
products, but was productive of changes in character, and 
was attended by so much spoilage in holding, that other 
methods which would overcome these objections would 
necessarily meet with success. Canning leaves much to 
be desired, but is a vast improvement over other methods, 
besides it is applicable to so many products which can not 
be conserved in any other manner, and withal is so simple 
that it can be used in the home as well as in the factory. 

According to the account given by Appert, he packed 
his products in glass bottles, added sufficient -water to 
cover, inserted the corks, and then placed them in the 
water bath. They were heated very gradually for varying 
lengths of time, depending upon the character of the food. 
He obtained a temperature of from 190 to 200° F. (88 to 
94° C.) in the center of his bottles, the maximum being 
212° F. (100° C). He used glass exclusively, and achieved 
results which are difficult to surpass with all our modern 
equipment. 

In 1807, a Mr. Sadrlington in England described a method 
of preserving, the essential features of which were that the 
fruits be placed in glass bottles, loosely corked, put in a water 
bath at 165° F. (65° C.) for 1 hour, then boiling water 
added to cover the fruit, the corks driven in, and the bottles 
laid on their sides to swell the corks. He did not claim to be 
the originator of the method, and it is believed that the 
general principles were obtained by him while traveling in 
France. 

Appert did not know why foods kept when treated 
according to lu? method, but ascribed it to the exclusion 
of outside air after applying sufficient heat to the food. 
He had evidently tried heating the food in a vessel and 
pouring it into bottles and had unfavorable results, and 
therefore concluded that it was the effect of the outside 
air. Those who followed him also laid great stress upon 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 13 

the effect of the air, and made every effort to secure a 
high vacuum. When tin cans came into use, they were 
sometimes vented as many as two or three times in order 
to secure the desired result. 

Science had not progressed sufficiently to determine the 
real cause for keeping, and, naturally, conclusions were 
drawn which seemed to coincide with what appeared to be 
the controlling factors in practice. The French govern- 
ment appointed Guy Lussac, the foremost chemist of the 
time, to investigate the cause for keeping. He reported 
that spoiling was a series of oxidation changes, and that 
by the exclusion of outside air these changes were pre- 
vented in bottled or canned foods. This explanation was 
accepted until the advent of the new science of bacteriology, 
which brought the true explanation. It is now known 
that all foods, water, air, and the containers are bearers of 
bacteria and other micro-organisms; that the effect of the 
heat is to destroy them, and that the hermetic container 
merely excludes those from without. This science has 
also shown that all organisms are not killed at the same 
temperature; that some spores possess great resistance; 
and that some products bear types of organisms which are 
more resistant than others. These facts make it clear 
why some products, like corn and pumpkin, need a very 
high temperature and for a very long time, while some 
others, as raspberries and loganberries, require a relatively 
low temperature for only a few minutes. The honor for 
discovering most of the fundamental principles involved 
also belongs to the French master, Pasteur, though his 
work was in reality directed along a different line. 

The first application of the science of bacteriology to 
canning in this country was made by H. L. Russell, of the 
University of Wisconsin, in 1895. He was followed by 
Prescott and Underwood, at the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, in 1896. Since that time sufficient work 
has been done to enable factory superintendents to process 
all lin^s of fpod products with comparative safety. 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

COMMERCIAL CANNING 

The methods described by Appert were so simple thai 
commercial camiing on a small scale was begun almost 
immediately in Europe and started in this country in New 
York, in 1819, and in Boston, in 1820. Ezra Daggett and 
Thomas Kensett are credited with having packed some 
salmon, lobsters, and oysters in New York, and William 
Underwood and Charles Mitchell with having packed 
fruits in Boston in these years. These pioneers had learned 
the methods before emigrating to this country. The firm 
of Underwood in Boston has been in continuous operation 
and is the oldest in the United States, the business estab- 
lished by Appert and continued by his descendants being the 
oldest in Europe. The first cannery in Baltimore was 
opened in 1840, the sardine industry was started at East- 
port, Maine, in 1841, and the first factory in the central 
states was operated in 1860, on the Pacific coast in 
1856, and in Alaska in 1878. It is also of interest to 
note that nearly all of the pioneer factories started on fish 
food as the primary pack, and fruits and vegetables as 
incidental. At the present time there are about 3,000 
factories in the United States, having an annual output 
of 3,000,000,000 cans. 

HOME CANNING 

There is no essential difiFerence between home and factory 
canning except that which is made possible through handling 
materials in large quantity by special machinery, to better 
grading for size and quality through superior facilities, and 
to being better able to apply a uniform and proper tempera- 
ture suited to the product. The home is not ordinarily 
supplied with the necessary equipment or means of control 
to get the best results. In many respects a home-canned 
product stands in the same relation to a factory product as 
the home-made butter and cheese to that of the creamery 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 15 

which is equipped with separators, pasteurizer, ripening and 
chilling tanks, etc. Some persons through the exercise 
of skill and ingenuity prepare a very superior article of 
butter or cheese in the home, but the average is not high. 
The really distinctive feature in home-canning is the use 
of spices and flavoring, a valuable factor which the com- 
mercial packer has neglected. The amount of home- 
canning probably far exceeds any estimate that may be 
made, as it is largely done in glass, and the jars used 
repeatedly. There are thousands among the rural popula- 
tion, and many in the cities, who pride themselves upon 
their handiwork, and who pack from a dozen to a hundred 
or more cans each year. 



PRINCIPLES IN CANNING 

While the fundamental principle in preserving a food 
product is the administration of heat in due degree and 
for sufficient time to cause sterilization and to maintain 
the condition in a closed container, there are other factors 
of great importance, therefore, a brief discussion of the 
methods used and princriples involved may well precede 
the general treatise. 

Appert used an open water bath for heating his bottles, 
and this method is the one in common use in the packing 
of all fruits. In this method a temperature of 212° F. 
(100° C.) is the maximum attainable, and in practice can 
not be reached in the center of the can. With fruits, 
however, this temperature is not necessary, as the more 
highly acid they are, the more easily they are sterilized. 
Most of the fruits can be sterilized at 185° F. (85° C.) and 
in experimental work the results have been quite satis- 
factory as low as 165° F. (65° C), at one heating, though 
continued for a longer period. As far as known to the 
writer, all fruits may be sterilized in a very short time at or 
near the boiling point, and as the temperature de- 
scends below the boiling point the period must be increased. 



Digitized by 



Google 



16 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

but it does not follow in a definite ratio. Vegetables are 
not so easily sterilized as fruits; for the most part they 
require a temperature above 212° F. (100** C). if applied 
only once. In order to secure the necessary increase in 
temperature, first salt was added to the bath, and later 
calcium chloride was used. With the latter, the heat could 
be made to reach 250° F. (121° C). Both the salt and the 
calcium chloride solutions attacked the tin cans and gave 
them an unattractive appearance. Heavy mineral oil 
has been used, but it necessitates a thorough scouring or 
cleansing of the cans after treatment. The most common 
method now in use is to place the cans in an autoclave or 
retort and subject them to steam or hot water under pres- 
sure. In this manner any desired degree of temperature 
may he attained. The general practice is to process all 
vegetables, meat, fish, and milk in this manner, varying 
the degree and the time to suit the particular product. 
. This method has not been available in the home until 
quite recently, as small pressure cookers were not built. 

A further improvement in the matter of processing has 
been the development of the agitating cooker. Some 
products which have a heavy body, require a long time to 
cook because the heat cannot penetrate rapidly. The 
time therefore may be greatly reduced by causing the cans 
to roll or to turn in such a manner that the contents will 
come to the outside, or that the liquid present will be 
carried through the mass. It has been found that slow, 
even agitation will not necessarily break up the fruit or 
product, but that it will reduce the time by 75 per cent. 
The special cookers used for this purpose also have the 
advantage of being continous. In home canning, in lieu 
of these special devices, resort may be had to the principle 
of pasteurization, that is, heating the cans for a short period 
on three or four successive days. 

An illustration of the great difficulties which the pioneers 
had in determining the proper process upon any given 
article is to be found in the work of Isaac Winslow. He 
made his first attempts to can corn in 1839, and repeateil 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOWfeTO USE CANNED FOODS 17 

his efforts year after year, the experiments mostly proving 
failures, but always attended with enough success to hold 
out a ray of hope. He was not reasonably successful until 
1852, and was not granted a patent on the process until 
1864. At present, one can arrive at a proper process 
through experiment and by a systematic examination of 
the product in a reasonably short time. 

While sterilization may be accomplished by any of the 
methods already cited, the difference in the effect upon the 
product is quite marked. For example, asparagus pro- 
cessed at boiling heat does not have the tenderness nor the 
flavor that is obtained in that which is processed in the 
retort. It is decidedly inferior. Most vegetables are 
improved by heating above the boiling point. With 
fruits the reverse is true, the conservation of flavor being 
best at as low temperature as is practicable to be employed 
in sterilization. 

THE CONTAINER 

Appert used the glass bottle for his experiments, but the 
tin can made its advent almost coincident with the art 
itself. Saddington gave a brief description of the process 
to the English in 1807, and in 1810, Peter Durand took out 
a blanket patent on containers of almost every known 
material, and specifically mentioned tin. He has, there- 
fore, become known as the father of the tin can. There is 
no such thing as a best container for all products. Some 
things are better in glass and some in tin. The original 
long-necked, narrow-mouth bottle gave way to the wide- 
mouth bottle, and later to the jar with the metal cap and 
wax top to take the place of the cork. This style of jar 
may be found in some of the rural communities to this day. 
Later came the screw cap, and all of the other devices to 
make a tight closure, the seal being made by a gasket of 
rubber or fiber. The glass container has its drawbacks 
because of cost, ease in breaking, increased labor required, 
added weight, and higher freight. It has had a large usage 



Digitized by 



Google 



18 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

in domestic canning, and, through recent improvements, 
it is gaining as a commercial package. Earthenware jars 
were introduced as a substitute for glass, but have had only 
a limited success. In England, all goods packed in glass 
are referred to as bottled and the process as bottling. 

The tin can is preeminently the container of commerce, 
and, like the glass jar, has gone through many stages in its 
evolution in arriving at its present state of development. 
It lacks much of being the ideal container, but it is the 
most practicable that has been evolved. Tin cans are 
classed as open top, hole and cap, and wax top, depending 
upon whether the entire end is to be attached by a process 
of crimping or double seaming, whether the cap is to be 
soldered on, or whether wax is used in sealing. The latter 
type is used exclusively in domestic canning, but is 
giving way to the solder cap style. Cans are known as key 
opening if some part of the can has been sufficiently cut 
to permit opening by stripping a part out of the side or 
top by means of a key. Some cans are called "enamel" 
lined when they have been treated with a lacquer on the 
inside, and these are decidedly advantageous in conserving 
color in products like berries, beets, etc. In the trade the 
tendency is to limit the term "canned *' to food packed in 
tin only, and when glass is used to refer to that style of 
package as fruits, etc., in glass. 



METHODS IN COMMERCIAL CANNING 

Good commercial canning begins with the production 
of the material, in the selection of the seed, as for corn and 
peas; in getting the right variety of fruit; and in super- 
vising the cultivation, harvesting, and delivery of the raw 
material to the factory. It is imperative that the raw 
material be of first class quality, uniform, and in the 
proper stage of development to give the best results. 
One cannot use mixed varieties of peas, cut at all stages of 
maturity, and since these and other products must be 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 19 

furnished by scores of farmers and growers, it is necessary 
for the canner to have a complete understanding and super- 
vision over the work. This is one of the very important 
features with which the consumer is not familiar, and 
accounts in a large measure for "quality." 

The immediate work in securing products involves rush 
operations not associated with regular harvesting. Most 
of the vegetables are green and in a state where they 
change or spoil rapidly. Asparagus must be cut and packed 
the same day, and so important is this that the factories 
have been located near the growing beds. The standing 
for a day makes a difiFerence in the degree of toughness 
and flavor. Peas, corn, and green beans are all seriously 
injured by standing. Berries must be collected in very 
shallow boxes, and fruits, such as apricots and peaches, 
picked when just ripe, and handled in shallow lug boxes to 
prevent bruising. The milk collected for the evaporated 
product must be fresher and cleaner than that which is 
generally delivered in the city market. 



GRADING 

The first operation in almost any factory is that of 
grading. The foreman looks over the loads of peas, 
corn, tomatoes, or fruit, and sends them to different points 
to be unloaded according to their condition. This is only 
a starting point, and it is continued in almost every succes- 
sive operation throughout the factory. Grading for quality 
must be done by the eye for the most part, and for size 
by machinery. It is frequently a question of whether this 
is not carried to excess, but people eat with their eyes fully 
as much as with the sense of taste and demand peas that 
are uniform in size and color, though they are not so good 
as the mixed, and demand small peas at high cost in prefer- 
ence to the large, though they are not so nutritious nor 
economical. The extreme to which the work is carried 
is well illustrated in the offering of fifteen or more grades 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

of Alaska peas, and an equal number of yellow cling 
peaches. It is carried to such a point for jobbing purposes 
that even the packer cannot recognize the difiFerence in 
his own pack without having two or more grades together. 
The machines for sizing are generally built on the prin- 
ciple of a revolving cylinder or of vibrating screens, having 
holes of standard dimensions to make the necessary separa- 
tion. The first set of holes are large and all except the largest 
sized peas will pass through. The next set one size smaller 
takes out the next grade, and this process is continued 
to make the number of sizes desired. In the case of fruits. 




Machine for grading fruits by means of different 
size of screens. 

tapering rollers may be used so that as the fruit reaches a 
certain size it will fall through or the rollers may mechani- 
cally open and permit the dropping of certain sizes in the 
proper bins. An ingeniously devised wire belt is also made 
to open and close a mesh of varying size, and an apple sizer 
is made to work upon the principle that with a uniform 
force a light body can be thrown farther than a heavy one. 
There is only one important machine used for making the 
separation for quality, and that is for peas. It is based 
upon the principle that tender succulent peas are light and 
that older ones are heavy, and upon this difiFerence an 
approximate separation can be made by immersing them 
in a weak brine. The tender ones float and are skimmed 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 21 

from the top, while those that sink are conveyed from the 
bottom. The separation of green and soft fruits and those 
off color must be done by hand. 

PRELIMINARY PREPARATION 

The general preparation will naturally vary widely with 
the different products. Berries are stenmied and the de- 
fective ones picked out; plums are stemmed; cherries are 
stemmed and may or may not be pitted; apples and pears 
are peeled and cored; peaches are pitted and peeled; 
tbmatoes peeled and cored; peas are shelled; corn is husked; 
beans are snipped; and beets, carrots, sweet potatoes, etc., 
ate peeled. Some of these operations require especial 
and elaborate machinery, while others are dependent upon 
hand work. 

WASHING 

The most important operation in canning is that of 
washing, and for this purpose machines have been invented 
which are most ingenious in the way and care with which 
they handle particular products. In some, the product is 
soaked and then sprayed ; in others, it is soaked and agitated 
to loosen dirt; in another it is sprayed with a large 
volume of water; and in still another the sprays are small 
but have a strong pressure. The most common type of 
washer is known as the squirrel cage. A cylinder is made 
of woven wire and a perforated pipe runs the full length 
within, so that peas, beans, or any other product goes 
through in a single layer, rolls over many times, and is 
constantly subjected to sprays of water as light or as heavy 
as desired. Another type of machine passes the product 
on conveyers under sprays or between sprays. The principle 
of using sprays is the same as that of washing a floor with a 
hose with an open end or with a nozzle. The former will 
use a lot of water and accomphsh little, while the latter will 
use little water and accomplish much if the pressure be 



Digitized by 



Google 



22 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

right. Berries need a slight immersion to loosen dust and 
adherent dirt, and then should be passed under very fine 
sprays to cause their removal. Pears, apples, and all cut or 
sliced fruits need to be kept submerged in plenty of fresh 
water until packed in the cans. Tomatoes need very small 
but strong jets of water directed upon them. Peas need 
washing both before and after blanching and probably 
•require more water for their entire preparation than any 




Type of washer for fruits and vegetables, which carries 
them into a tank of water where they are agitated 
gently but thoroughly to loosen dirt, then sprays 
them as they emerge. 

other product. All the vegetables need to be washed under 
strong jets of water. 

All cans need washing irrespective of their appearance. 
They collect dust and dirt during manufacture, in shipment 
and in storage and need to be rinsed just before using. 
Machines have been devised which do this work very well. 
The open-top can collects more dust than the hole and cap 
can, but is much more easily cleaned. The milk can has 
such a small hole that dirt cannot enter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 23 




Machine for washing cans effectually by strong 
jet of steam or water directed on the inside. 

BLANCHING 

Blanching is a necessary operation with most vegetables, 
and advantageous with some fruits. The term is derived 
from the French hlanchir, used in the culinary sense, mean- 
to "scald or boil off," and not to whiten as is frequently 
inferred. Peas, beans, spinach, etc., are dropped into boil- 
ing water from one to fifteen minutes to cause their soften- 
ing, and also the removal of a rather objectionable sticky 
substance from the surface. Peaches are dipped in hot 
water to make them sufficiently flexible to pack well in the 
can, but incidentally the process also serves to obtain a more 
uniform color. The blanching may be done in steam, but 
the liquor will not be so clear. This work is accomplished 
by automatic machinery. 

FILLING THE CANS 

Most vegetables are filled into the cans by automatic 
machinery. Corn is heated in a tank with the proper 
amount of water, salt, and sugar, and filled into the cans 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




A filling machine for delivering a measured amount of 
a vegetable, like peas, beans, hominy, etc., and 
then adding the proper quantity of brine. The work 
is done with more accuracy and with much less 
injury to the product than if done by hand. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 



25 




Filling cans by machinery is cleanly as compared with hand 
work. 




Fish meat and solid products are weighed by auto- 
matic machinery to secure the correct fill. 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

while hot; peas, tomatoes, string beans, soup, milk, fish, 
and potted meats, each has its special filling machine. 
The higher grades of fruit require hand-filling to get the 
proper quantity and to prevent bruising. The practice is 
to fill the cans as full of the product as possible without 
injuring in any manner, and then to add water, brine, 
syrup, or sauce to fill the interspaces. In order to prevent 
short weight or overweight most hand -filling is checked by 
scales. 

EXHAUSTING 

After the cans are filled, they are heated slowly until 
the contents are hot, before capping. The object in heating 
is to cause the expulsion of air. This has little, if anything, 
to do with sterilization, but if the air be not driven out, 
there is not the proper collapse of the can, and it may be 
difficult to tell when spoilage occurs. A far more important 
reason is the lessening of the attack of the contents upon 
the container. The exhausting should be slow, taking from 
six to ten minutes with products containing more or less 
liquid and a longer time for those which are almost solid. 
The temperature should not be less than 130° F. {55° C), 
in the center of the can, and it is preferable that it should 
reach 165° F. (65° C). Very rapid heating causes the cells 
to swell and burst, and injures the appearance. A machine 
has been devised which will exhaust the air mechanically 
while the can is being sealed and which has some advantages 
over the heating method. Ordinary cans have a partial 
vacuum of from 6 to 8 inches, those well exhausted, 10 to 13 
inches, and those very well exhausted up to 22 inches. In 
the factory the exhausting is accomplished by passing the 
cans on a conveyer through a steam box or a shallow hot 
water bath. Corn and other products filled into the can 
while hot are not exhausted. In the home canning the 
same result is accomplished by setting the glass cans in 
hot water, until the contents are hot before clamping on 
the lid. The presence of a solder mark on the end or side 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 27 




The simplest type of exhaust or pre-heater, con- 
veys the filled cans slowly through hot water, 
steam, or both and hot to the closing machine. 

of a sanitary can usually indicates that the product 
has been sealed cold, then placed in a retort or a bath for 
a time, and taken out and vented. This gives a very 
thorough exhaust and was the method formerly employed 
on all fish and meats, and to a certain extent on vegetables. 



CLOSING THE CAN 

Open top cans are closed by a machine known as a double 
seamer. The edge of the top and the flange on the side 
are hooked together and turned under with such force 
that it makes a hermetic closure. This is aided by a 
very thin layer of cement or a paper gasket. The machines 
used for this purpose work at speeds varying from thirty to 
eighty cans per minute. No acid or solder is required. 
Hole and cap cans are closed by automatic machines which 
wipe the top, place the caps, apply the flux, solder, and 
tip the vent at the rate of sixty per minute. The closed 
cans may be run through a hot bath for inspection for 
leaks. The presence of a leak is noted by the rise of 
bubbles. The percentage of leaks is so small that the 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




Machine for sealing cans without acid or solder. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 29 

majority of the factories do not resort to this precaution. 
Where canning is done on a small scale, the hand-capping 
steel and copper tipper are used. 



PROCESSING 

The term processing is applied to the operation of 
sterilizing. As already indicated, this is accomplished at a 
temperature and for a time best suited to the product. 
No rule can be followed, but each product must be 
treated in the manner found best by experience. 

The simplest method of processing is to place the cans 
in crates or iron baskets and immerse them in a tank 
containing boiling water. The water is kept hot by turning 
a jet of steam into it at the bottom. These open baths 
may be very simple wooden tubs or metal tanks, or very 
long ones into which the can may enter at one end and 
travel slowly through and come out at the other. The 
same kind of apparatus may be used for processing at a 
lower temperature, or for pasteurizing, by keeping the water 
at the proper degree of heat. Cans may also be carried into 
boxes and steamed without pressure. Processing above 
the boiling point is done in iron boxes or steel cylinders 
known as retorts. These may be vertical or horizontal 
and of such size that they will hold from a few hundred to 
three or four thousand cans. In the vertical retorts steam 
may be used alone or steam may be introduced in water. 
In the horizontal retorts steam only is used. The pressure 
will vary from 5 to 15 pounds, thus giving temperatures 
from 220° F. (105° C.) to ^SB"" F. (124° C). The practical 
agitating cookers have thus far been of the open type, 
rolling the cans in single file through water or steam. 

'The proper control of time and temperature is so very 
important that this is no longer entrusted to the attention 
and memory of the cook. Temperature controllers and 
timing devices as well as recording thermometers are 
installed as a part of the equipment, in order to guard 



Digitized by 



Google 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




Diagram of a retort, 6 feet in height, nearly 4 feet in 
diameter, and holds from 600 to 1,500 cans. Steam 
enters at the bottom and heats water or surrounds 
the cans. 

against mistakes. These have been perfected to such a 
degree that in processing in a retort the chef can turn 
on the steam, turn the key on the controllers, and know that 
the temperature will be maintained, that the steam will 
be cut off at the right time, and that the air and water 
will be admitted to properly cool the cans. 

HOME EQUIPMENT 

The simplest equipment for home canning is a heavy pan 
somewhat deeper than the height of the cans. A wash 



Digitized by 



Google 




HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS. SI 

boiler answers very well. A 
wooden false bottom is desir- 
able when using either glass or 
tin, though not absolutely nec- 
essary for the latter. The tin 
cans are set in suflBicient water 
to exhaust them, and when 
processing, they may be com- 
pletely submerged. When pack- 
ing in glass, jars are usually 
not more than half submerg- 
ed, or they may be set above 
the water and a tight cover be 
placed over the cooker and de- 
pendence placed upon the 
steaming to give the proper 
temperature. A small pressure 
cooker suitable for many purposes in the kitchen may be 
used for processing a few cans at a time at any desired 
temperature. (A simple pressure cooker is illustrated.) 

COOLING 

The process should be carried to the point of sterilization 
and then should cease, as retention of heat for a longer 
time only tends to cause injury. For this reason it is impor- 
tant that cooling should take place at once. When the 
products are packed in the store room and ricked or piled 
without cooling, no one can say what process was given; 
they may be hot for hours, and some cans even for days. 
The result is invariably an uneven and an inferior product. 
Under extreme conditions, tomatoes may become as brown 
as a walnut and acquire a bitter taste, peas become mushy 
and taste scorched, and the majority of the cans show an 
unnatural darkening. One of the anomalies of this con- 
dition is that in peas and corn particularly, souring may 
take place, due to bacteria which can withstand a high 
temperature. 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 





■'4 



C ra 









■ t • • t^ * •«* 



t i 



Testing cans for defects by tapping for sound; normal, over- 
filled or warm, and a swell. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 33 

Cooling is accomplished by immersing the cans in tanks 
of water, by turning cold water into the kettles, or by spray- 
ing the cans in the air. Where water is scarce, the prac- 
tice is to stack the cans in an open shed for a day or two. 



LABELING AND BOXING 

After the cans are cool, the ends should be well drawn in, 
and the cans bright and clean and free from rust. When 
canning is done near the sea, or where there is much damp- 
ness, it is a common practice to lacquer the cans. This is 
done as soon as possible to prevent rusting, and not later 
to cover up rust. The cans are then labeled and boxed. 
The nailed box is the one generally used, though the wire- 
bound is coming into use on account of the saving on lumber 
and freight. The fiber-board container is also gaining 
recognition, especially for small-sized cans. Whatever 
style of box is used, it should be neat, clean, and of suffi- 
cient strength to stand shipment to the consumer. 



FOOD FACTORY SANITATION 

Modern food manufacture means in reality a high-class 
community kitchen for the preparation of food for many 
consumers. Therefore it becomes a matter of public 
interest that the sanitary condition be of a high order. A 
description of the proper requirements for a cannery may 
serve to indicate, in a general way, what should be expected 
of all food manufacturers. 

The location of the plant should be away from lines of 
business which may be objectionable, as tanning, hide- 
dressing, soap-making, fertilizer-grinding, or any other 
manufactory in which disagreeable odors are given off, or in 
which decomposition and putrefactive processes are asso- 
ciated. The site should have proper drainage, an ample 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

supply of potable water, and be protected against unneces- 
sary dust and dirt. 

The building can no longer be any kind of shed or base- 
ment, but should be adapted to the use to which it is 
placed. It need not necessarily be expensive, but should 
be so constructed that it can be kept clean. The ceilings 
should be high and all walls, supporting columns, and par- 
titions be made smooth so that adhering dirt be reduced 
to the minimum, and that cleaning be done easily. The 
preference is for a finish that will admit of being washed 
with a hose. The floors should be water-tight and well 
pitched so that any material which may fall on the floor 
can be flushed off and that drying take place quickly. It is 
preferable that the lines of drainage should pass under the 
permanent machines and tables where most water is used, 
in order to limit as far as possible the damp areas. Daily 
scrubbing is a necessity in a clean cannery, and the labor 
can be reduced more than two-thirds by a proper construc- 
tion of the floor. These conditions apply with special force 
to that part of the factory where the preparation is cdrried 
on and much water used. 

The lighting and ventilation should be as nearly perfect 
as possible. Where the floor space is small, dependence 
can be put in large sidelights, but in any large rooms there 
should be either turrets or a saw-tooth roof construction. 
No part should be dark. With saw-tooth or turret roof 
construction artificial ventilation is rarely necessary, but 
in cases where it must be employed, the air should be forced 
into the building rather than depend upon sucking it out. 
When the intake of the air is controlled, it can be made clean 
and be distributed where wanted. When dependence is 
placed upon suction, no such control can be exercised. 
Good lighting and ventilation contribute so much to the 
efficiency of labor that it should be regarded as an economy 
at any cost. 

Water should be available at many points for hose 
connections, for washing machinery, tables, floors, etc., 
and for the hands of the employees. Steam lines should be 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 35 

run to points where cleaning and sterilization by steam is 
desirable. The capping machines, filling machines, etc., 
can be cleaned much better with steam than by any other 
method. 

The tables used in the preparation room should be plain 
and as free from joints, cracks, angles, and corners as 
possible, and of materials that can be thoroughly cleaned. 
They should be of the proper height for comfort, whether 
the workers stand or sit. The machines should be designed 
to admit of cleaning, and set far enough from the wall or 




Type of sanitary table on which the buckets or pans 
are carried to the peelers, and when the preparation 
is completed, the product and waste are carried 
away. The pans may be washed after each opera- 
tion. 



other machine to be easily reached from all sides. The 
first consideration in both factory and equipment should 
be cleanliness, and these principles apply as well to one 
kind of food production as to another. 

A modern food factory must go farther than providing 
building and operating equipment; it must make adequate 
provision for the comfort of the employees. There 
should be a place for hanging wraps and placing parcels. 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

separate from the factory room. There should be sanitary 
toilets and sanitary drinking fountains. A first aid cabinet 
should be provided for accidents and emergencies and some 
one coached to render proper assistance. Stools should 
be provided for employees for operations which may be 
done as well sitting, as continuous standing becomes 
exhausting and lessens efficiency. ■ Uniforms, while not 
necessary, are advantageous from both the standpoint of 
employer and employee. 

The laws of most of the States define the conditions under 
which a factory can operate, the hours of labor, the age at 
which employment may begin, the owner's liability in case 
of accidents, provision for safety devices, etc. These 
are not uniform, but they indicate the trend toward 
making food factories what they should be. 

SIZE OF CANS 

There are certain sizes of cans that are regarded as stand- 
ard but unfortunately are not based upon any unit of volume 
nor upon average domestic requirements. Most of them 
have originated in trying to make a certain number of cans 
out of a sheet of tin plate of a certain size, the logical 
alternative of making the sheet of tin plate to such size 
as will build cans of certain capacity does not seem to have 
been considered. The regular No. 2 can is too large for 
peas, corn, and beans in amount for the average family to 
use at one time, and the unused part is not as attractive 
when reheated. The No. 3 can of tomatoes is likewise an 
anomaly though the objection is not so strong as for the 
No. 2. The No. 2j^ can was introduced as a compromise on 
the No. 3, especially for fruits, but recently a better size 
is being used having the diameter of the No. 2J^ but only 
one-half the height. After machines have once been built 
to make and close cans of a certain size, it is difficult to 
make changes no matter how desirable it may be. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 



37 



N9 3 



J) 



J/92Ji 
N92 



N9I 



N92'^ net 



jSpm/ofe_ 



A diagram in f uJJ size cross section of the principal round cans for household use. 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

The following are the dimensions of the regular cans : 





Diameter, 


Height, 


Capacity, 


No, 


inches 


inches 


ounces 


1 


2 11/16 


4 


n 


2 


3 7/16 


4 9/16 


22.2 


2 1/2 


4 1/16 


4 3/4 


32.6 


3 


4 1/4 


4 7/8 


36.4 


10 


6 3/16 


7 


116.1 



The majority of staples are packed in cans of these sizes, 
but there are numerous other round, oval and square cans 
for fish, meat, milk, asparagus, etc. 



THE LABEL 

The labels in use on canned foods are not suflBiciently 
descriptive. The type originated early in the history of 
the industry when secrecy in the factory was an asset 
and, strangely enough, even the label avoided giving any 
information. After the business developed and the real 
grading for size or quality became a part of factory 
operations, instead of using such legends as would enable the 
purchaser to follow these differences, brands like "Sunrise," 
"Noonday Sun,*' and "Sunset" were adopted. Later 
the lithographers came to the aid with appropriate 
embellishments to heighten the effect, and one was 
permitted to make a selection according to the 
gaudiness of coloring. Why this anomaly persists 
is almost beyond comprehension. The fact that the 
food is completely concealed from inspection should be 
the strongest possible reason for describing the grades. 
The grading of peaches serves well as an example of how 
the differences are made at the factory, and they can only be 
seen by the consumer on opening the can. The differences, 
however, are not greater than with other fruits to which the 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 39 

same principles apply. The very large perfect stock of 
peaches is packed seven to nine pieces in the can, and a 55° 
syrup added; the next size is packed nine to twelve pieces in 
a can and a 40° syrup added; and the third size is packed 
twelve to fourteen pieces in a can and 30° syrup added. In 
all these the fruit must be in prime condition, even in tex- 
ture and color, and nicely pitted and peeled. The dififer- 
ence in the grades is not in quality, but in the size of the 
fruit and in the density of the syrup used. There are some 
persons who like large fruit in a heavy syrup, but there 
are probably many more who prefer fruit of medium 
size but also in heavy syrup; there are also persons who 
like fruit moderately acid in character; but under present 
conditions these are deprived of the privilege of making a 
selection. There are grades of peaches known as standards, 
seconds, and pie or water. The fruit is of smaller size, 
some may be a little soft, some a little green, some spotted 
•and more or less blemished in trimming. The standard is the 
better grade with a syrup of 20°, the seconds next with a 
syrup of 10°, and the water or pie grade that which is packed 
in water. These contain good food material, though less 
attractive in appearance than the higher grades, and need 
to be sold for what they are. The trade custom is to label 
the different grades as special extra, extra or fancy, extra 
standard, standard, seconds, and water or pie stock, but 
the label conveys no definite information and should be 
supplemented by appropriate description. There is clearly 
a distinction between labeling a product the composition 
of which is standard, as already cited, and one which might 
be largely the result of a process of manufacture, such as 
soup. In the latter case, the product is due to the skill in 
blending ingredients, adding certain condiments, method of 
cooking, etc., and these are the factors which give individu- 
ality. The use of a broad name in such cases needs no 
further elaboration. 

The technical requirements for labeling canned foods are 
quite simple. They are: 1st, that the name of the product 
be given; 2d, that if the article be colored, made from trim- 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

mings, or from dry stock which has been soaked, that the 
proper descriptive term be used in connection with the 
name; 3d, a statement of the weight or volume; 4th, that 
the name of the manufacturer and place of manufacture 
be given in case of compounds; in the case of a product 
not a compound, the name of the packer may or may not 
appear, instead, the name of a distributor may be used; 
5th, the design shall not be misleading; 6th, the descriptive 
matter must be in English, though the use of other lan- 
guages is permissible in addition. The second regulation, 
as far as it relates to color, has almost no application to 
American packed products. French peas colored with 
copper came under this regulation, but since the use of 
copper has been prohibited, there are practically none to be 
found on the market. The provision relating to trimming 
stock has its principal application in the use of tomato 
waste used in ketchup, puree, soup, etc. Peas and lima 
beans are designated as soaked when made from ripe or ' 
dry stock. They are perfectly good and wholesome, but 
it is proper that they be described in a manner to prevent 
their being sold for the green article. The statement of 
weight should be in pounds and ounces for the net contents 
of the can. A ruling of the officials charged with the en- 
forcement of the Federal Food and Drugs Act requires that 
the cans be filled as full of the article as is possible and only 
the amount of water, brine, or syrup used that is necessary 
for the proper preparation of the product without injuring its 
character or appearance. A safeguard has thus been made 
to protect the consumer against short weight of the principal 
product. The fourth regulation, pertaining to compounds 
has almost no application to canned goods as there is very 
little mixing; it applies chiefly to jellies, jams, etc. If the 
place of manufacture be given, it must be the true place, 
as Maine corn must be packed in Maine, Columbia 
River salmon packed on the Columbia River, and not in 
Alaska. In the case of a large company having a number 
of factories, only the home office need be indicated, unless 
in the judgment of the officials, the label might be mislead- 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 41 

ing. The design must not give a false impression, as a 
picture of green peas in pods used upon a can containing 
soaked peas. This covers the essential requirements in 
labeling. The food officials have rendered some decisions 
which serve as a further guide for labeling certain lines of 
products and indicating what they consider proper size of 
lettering, etc. 

SYRUP 

The syrup is a very important part in the canning of 
fruits. It becomes as much a part of the grade as does the 
size or quality of the product. Nearly all fruits need the 
addition of sugar before being eaten, especially after being 
cooked, and the proper time to make this addition is when 
the fruit is placed in the can. The processing and sub- 
sequent standing give a blend that cannot be obtained if 
the sugar be added at the time of consumption. The 
further efifect of the syrup is to secure a marked conserva- 
tion of flavor, retention of better color, and to hold the 
shape of the fruit by giving protection in shipping. 

The syrup is made to definite degrees upon a Balling or 
Brix scale. A 20° or 30° Balling syrup means the percent- 
age of sugar in water, 20 or 30 pounds of sugar and 80 or 70 
pounds of water in a 100 pound batch. The making of 
syrups on the percentage basis is much more easily under- 
stood than upon the Baume or specific gravity scale. The 
testing of the syrup is done with a float or spindle. 

To make a syrup of the degrees usually employed taking 
one gallon of water as a basis, the following amounts of 
sugar are added: 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 ' COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Water, 1 gallon 



Density 


Quantity 


of sugar 


Degrees, Balling 


Ounces 


Pounds 


5 


7. 


.44 


10 


14.8 


.92 


15 


23.5 


1.47 


20 


30.8 


1.92 


25 


44.5 


2.8 


30 


57.1 


3.57 


35 


71.8 


4.48 


40 


88.8 


5.55 


45 


109. 


6.81 


50 


133.3 


8.33 


55 


163.9 


10.24 


60 


200. 


12.5 



The water and sugar should be heated to near the boiling 
point, thoroughly stirred to be certain that the sugar has 
been dissolved, then strained to remove the scum. 

The syrup in the finished product can be tested in the 
same manner as the original, but the reading will not be 
strictly correct. The syrup in the finished product will 
contain some soluble extractives from the fruit, but these 
are not sufficient to seriously interfere with getting approxi- 
mate results. The syrup in the finished can will not be the 
same as the original on account of some of the sugar going 
into the fruit and some of the water coming out, but there 
is a ratio by which it is possible to determine fairly closely 
what degree was used. These data are in Bulletin No. 196, 
United States Bureau of Chemistry. 



BRINE 

The making of brine is subject to little variation, the 
percentage of salt being, in most cases, between Ij/^ and 
2 per cent. The rule is to use only a sufficient amount to 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 43 

overcome the objectionable feature of lack of flavor, and 
that additional seasoning may be added later to suit the 
individual taste. 

KEEPING QUALITY 

There seems to be a general assumption that all canned 
foods deteriorate with age. This is probably true within 
limits, but the rate with which the change takes place may 
be so slow as to be scarcely appreciable within three or four 
years. Much depends upon the character of the product, 
the method of preparation, and the condition of storage. A 
pack of com put up in 1916, if the crop is of exceptional 
quality, may easily be better in 1919 than the pack of 1917 
or 1918, if the crops in these two years should be of ordi- 
nary quality. The difference in the quality of the crop may 
far more than offset any changes due to time. There seems 
to be very good evidence accumulating that fruits packed at 
a low temperature may actually improve in flavor while in 
the can, that after three or four years they are richer than 
at first. This is somewhat along the lines of the aging of 
wines. There are products, especially some highly acid 
fruits, which attack the container, causing loss of color and 
flavor in the product, dissolution of the tin and iron in 
appreciable quantity, and development of sufficient gas 
to cause springers and perforations in the cans. Improve- 
ments, in the methods of packing these products have been 
going on very rapidly in the past few years, so that many 
criticisms which were warranted on the ground of deteriora- 
tion are rapidly passing. The unjust assumption was often 
made that what applied to a few products was equally 
applicable to all. 

A very important point in the keeping quality of canned 
foods is that they be stored in a cool, dry place. Freezing 
causes injury to the product, dampness causes rust and 
perforation of cans, while a very warm temperature 
increases any tendency toward attack by the product upon 
the container. 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 46 

FRUITS 
Apples 

Only good cooking apples are canned, usually of the late 
fall and winter varieties. They must be sound, smooth, 
of medium size, and free fr(Jm bruises. It is preferable 
that they be slightly acid as they retain their flavor better 
than do the sweet varieties. A few are canned whole and 
unpeeled, in order to be served, when heated, as baked 
apples; some are canned whole, but peeled and cored to be 
used for dumplings, and some canned in halves, quarters, 
slices, or cooked as a sauce. 

Apples are peeled or cored by hand or by power machines. 
They are dropped into water at once and kept covered, or, 
better still, placed in the cans and covered with hot water 
or hot syrup to prevent browning. A light syrup is prefer- 
able to water in canning. 

Apple Butter 

Formerly it was the practice to make apple cider, boil it 
down to one-half its volume, then to add about twice the 
volume of sliced apples and boil the whole down to a fairly 
heavy consistency. The process is greatly simplified at 
present by crushing the apples, steaming them until they 
are soft, and then running them through a pulping machine. 
This gives a heavy pulp free from seeds and skin, to which 
juice may be added, and then be cooked to the desired 
consistency. It is filled while hot into cans, sealed, and 
no process is required. 

Apple Juice or Cider 

Clean, sound apples are run through a crusher and the 
juice pressed out. This is run through cloth filters to 
remove the flocculi, then filled into cans. The cans should 
be exhausted slowly to 160° F. (77° C), sealed, and No. 2J^ 
processed for twenty-five to thirty minutes at 180° F. 
(82° C). This product is what is usually labeled cider 
and what nine-tenths of the people in the apple-growing 
districts understand as cider. Technically, however, the 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

term cider refers to juice which has undergone more or less 
alcoholic fermentation, though the dictionaries define 
cider as the expressed juice of the apple either before or 
after fermentation. 

Apricots 

The apricot is a fruit that has a very distinctive and agree- 
able flavor, especially when well ripened on the tree. The 
canning is done almost exclusively in California. The fruit 
is hand-picked when firm and just ready to turn soft, and 
is handled in shallow boxes to prevent bruising. At the 
factory the fruit is split and pitted and then graded for 
size, using screens having openings of 40, 48, 56, 64, and 
sometimes 68 thirty-seconds of an inch. They are further 
graded into prime fruit, soft fruit, and hard fruit, according 
to the state of ripeness. These are filled into the cans 
according to size and quality. The very large, prime, and 
evenly colored are called special extra; the next size, extra; 
then extra standard. The standard grade may contain 
some overripe, slightly blemished, and small fruit. The 
underripe, soft, and irregular quality are used in the lower 
grades, seconds, and pie stock. The syrups used on these 
grades are 55°, 50°, 40°, 30°, 20°, 10°, and water in the order 
given. Good apricots need a heavy syrup and much of 
that given 40° and 30° on account of size would be greatly 
improved if the same degree as for extra were used. Very 
few apricots are peeled as the labor is excessive in com- 
parison to the amount which can be done. Some apricots, 
especially those which are very soft, are kettle cooked — 
that is, placed in a steam-jacketed kettle and cooked until 
soft. They may or may not be put through a pulper to 
remove the skins. The pulp is evaporated to the desired 
consistency and canned. In order to give more character, 
some canners add about one-third or one-fourth the 
volume of rather hard fruit to the pulp just before the 
cooking is completed. This gives whole pieces in the pulp 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 47 

Blackberries 

The blackberry grows oyer a considerable part of the 
United States, but is not properly appreciated for its worth 
as a canning berry. It has a distinctive and excellent 
flavor which is well preserved in a heavy syrup. Packed 
in water and in plain cans, it loses color and flavor, and is 
unattractive. 

The berries, where the best practice is followed, are picked 
in shallow trays and not allowed to accumulate in layers of 
more than Ij^ inches. They are not quite as ripe as 




Type of crate used to carry berries at the canneries. 
It gives the maximum protection. 

those eaten fresh and are handled as quickly as possible 
from the vine to the cannery, the hauling being done in 
chests to prevent bruising or marking. The trays are not 
used a second time as the wood becomes infected with 
mould and tends to inoculate fruit with which it may 
subsequently come in contact. 

At the factory, the fruit is inspected for unfit material, 
leaves, stems, etc., washed and filled into the cans by 
weight. The cans are tapped lightly during the filling, 
but not sufficiently so to jam the fruit, are made level, 
full, and syrup added to fill the interspaces. 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Blueberries 

Blueberries and whortleberries have become so scarce that 
they are neariy all consumed fresh. A few are canned in 
Maryland, Maine, and in northern Michigan. The berries 
grow wild, are brought to the local markets in almost any 
kind of container, and are shipped to the factories in shallow 
boxes. They are run through a fanning mill to remove the 
bits of leaves, etc., are washed, after which they are placed 
in open kettles, or corn cookers, and cooked with water 
for from four to eight minutes, and then filled into the cans 
and sealed. They may be given a subsequent cooking by 
immersing for a few minutes in boiling water. The blue- 
berries packed in this manner are mostly used for pies. 
If instead of water a 30° syrup be used, they make a very 
good product. 

Cherries 

The cherries almost naturally divide themselves into two 
groups — ^the large black and white sweet cherries of the 
western coast, and the acid cherries of the central and 
eastern states. The former are nearly all packed unpitted 
while the reverse is true for the latter. The unpitted make 
the better appearance, while the pitted are the more agree- 
able at the table. The retention of the pit, however, gives 
a distinctive flavor which many persons Uke. 

The cherries are picked with the stems attached after 
they have become well colored but not so soft that the pit 
will come away with the stem, and are handled in shallow 
boxes. At the factory they are hand-stemmed, and im- 
perfect fruit culled out. Machines have been devised to 
remove the stems, but have not come into general use. 
The grading for size is done by passing the fruit over screens 
having openings of 22, 24, 26, 28, and 32 thirty-seconds of 
an inch. The pitting is done by machinery, except those 
packed for fancy display purposes. 

After washing, the fruit is filled into cans, the average 
being about 20 ounces for a No. 2J^ can. This necessitates 
tapping the can quite vigorously during the filling opera- 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 49 

tion. A few caimers drop the cherries into hot water at 
about 82° C. (180° F.) to slightly soften the fruit before 
filling. This also lessens the bursting of the skin in the 
subsequent process. Syrup of 50°, 40°, 30°, 20°, 10°, and 
water are used according to the size of the fruit in order 
to give special extra, extra, extra standard, standard, 
seconds, and water or pie grades. The pitted fruit is 
usually packed in either 50° syrup or in water. 

Figs 

Whole figs are packed in South Carolina, Mississippi, 
Louisiana, and Texas. Some of the figs are not skinned, 
but after washing are placied in cans as tightly as they can 
be laid and heavy syrup added. Some are immersed in a 
hot but weak lye bath, then washed under jets of water to 
remove the rougher outer portion of the skin. They may 
then be filled into cans and syrup added. The majority 
are kettle cooked in sugar until they are a preserve and then 
filled into cans. The fig, though a weakly acid fruit, needs 
a rather heavy syrup to bring out the distinctive flavor. 

Gooseberries 

The gooseberry was once highly esteemed for pies, but 
only a few are grown at present. The berries are picked 
when nearly full grown, but green. They are stemmed by 
a machine and filled into cans with water. They are very 
acid. 

Grapes 

There is a decided preference for the white grape over 
the colored for canning. In the East the Niagara grape is 
used, and on the West coast, the Muscat. The flavor is 
unlike in these two varieties, the Muscat being distinctive 
and unlike any other. The stemming of the grapes is done 
by hand, after which they are washed and graded for size 
over screens having holes of 20, 21, 25, and 26 thirty-seconds 
of an inch. The syrups used on the Muscats are 40°, 30°, 
20°, 15°, 10°, and water. The same attention is not paid 
to grading in the East, each packer using what he deems 
to be sufficient. 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Loganberries 

The loganberry is the result of a cross between the black- 
berry and the red raspberry. It has the size and shape of 
the large blackberry, the color and texture of the red rasp- 
berry, and the flavor of both. It is very highly acid. It 
is handled and packed the same as the blackberry. 

Peaches 

The peach is the most popular fruit that is canned and 
leads all the others in volume and in value. About 85 per 
cent of the pack is put up in California. The growing of 
peaches for canning is a business in itself as only varieties 
can be used that have the proper size, texture, and flavor, 
and will hold these after processing. Some peaches are 
excellent when eaten fresh that are a failure when canned. 
It is also necessary to have the varieties mature in succes- 
sion to give a long period for work. The fruit must be hand 




Peach pitting spoon. 

picked and handled from the orchard to the factory in 
shallow lug boxes to prevent bruising. The peach should 
be picked when just beginning to turn soft. 

The first operation at the factory consists in splitting 
and pitting the peach. A cut is made entirely around and to 
the pit on the line of cleavage. Next, the pitting spoon is 
inserted, the halves separated, and the pit removed. This 
should be done without marking the fruit. The pitters 
pass the halves into pans according to whether they are 
prime, over-ripe, or under-ripe. The next step is the peel- 
ing, and this may be done by hand, using a special knife, 
or by means of hot lye and subsequent washing. The latter 
method is superseding the former because of economy and 
of being more sanitary. Formerly there were objections 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 51 

to this method, due in some measure to improper usage. 
The method consists in first dropping the peaches into 
scalding water for about twenty seconds to blister or 
cauterize the surface, after which they pass into scalding lye 
for a like period, the solution containing about one-fourth 
of a pound concentrated lye to the gallon of water and 
then for a like period into a second bath of about one-ninth 
of a pound of lye to a gallon of water. The treatment 
loosens the peel, and they are then given a most thorough 




The slicing machine will cut two bushels of fruit per 
minute, and do it accurately. 



washing under jets of water, or are dropped into running 
water a number of times. Tests show that all traces of lye 
are removed with the thin layer that comes away, and that 
there is no injury to the fruit. The fruit is next run through 
a blancher and heated sufficiently to make it slightly 
flexible as this aids materially in securing a good, uniform 
fill. The fruit is then graded for size by passing over 
screens having openings of 64, 68, 72, and 76 thirty- 
seconds of an inch. Those failing to pass through the 
largest holes are sliced, being too large to pack in halves. 



Digitized by 



Google 



52 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




o 



B 

a 

•<1 CO 

o 

C « 

^^ 
WO 

"^ 2 



s 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 53 

The grades are special extra, extra, extra standard and 
standard, according to size, and seconds and pie based on 
the condition of the fruit, whether over-ripe, green, bruised, 
or badly trimmed. The syrup which goes with the grades 
is Sd"", 40°, 30°, 20°, 10°, and water. A few are canned 
whole in heavy syrup and are called Melba peaches. 

Pears 

The Bartlett pear is preferred to the other varieties for 
canning, due to its size, fine texture, and excellent flavor. 
It belongs to the soft type of pear as distinguished from the 
hard or Keifer type. The fruit is hand picked while still 




Knives of special design are required for 
neat peeling and coring of fruits. 



hard and allowed to soften in the boxes after it reaches the 
factory, otherwise the handling and hauling would cause 
bruising which would brown very rapidly. The peeling 
is done by a special guard knife, the splitting done by a 
plain knife, and the core removed by a curved coring knife. 
The requirements are that the fruit be nicely peeled, 
evenly divided into halves, and cored so as to remove all 
the coarse fiber and seed cells without cutting away any of 
the edible portion. This necessitates careful manipulation 
and skill, which is acquired only after long experience. 
The grading of the fruit is all done by hand at the time of 
peeling and by those who fill the cans. The fruit must be 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

kept submerged in water after it is peeled to keep dLs- 
eoloration at the minimum. 

The pears must be filled into the cans by hand as it is 
necessary to layer the larger sizes to obtain the proper fill. 
The special-extra grade calls for eight or nine perfect pieces; 
the extra, eight to twelve pieces; extra-standard, nine to 
fourteen pieces; and standard, twelve to eighteen pieces. 
The seconds and water may be any size, irregularly cut 
pieces, soft and hard. The syrups used are 40°, 30°, 20°, 
15°, and 10°, and water. A 40° syrup is rather too sweet 
as the pear is low in acidity. 

Pineapple 

Pineapple packing has been taken to the Hawaiian 
Islands in response to the necessity for locating the factory 
at the source of fruit production, to be assured of prime 
material. Formerly the pines were brought from Cuba to 
eastern factories, which meant that the fruit had to be 
picked very green, and also that more or less deterioration 
took place. On the Hawaiian Islands, the effort is to 
cut the fruit in as an advanced condition as possible and to 
get it into the cans within thirty-six hours. 

The fruit is first trimmed top and butt and then run 
through a sizing and slicing machine which cuts the fruit 
to slightly less than the diameter of the can and in cross- 
sections so that eight pieces will make the proper fill. The 
core is removed at the same operation. The slices are in- 
spected as they pass along on a belt to the filling tables. 
Those which are perfect with the eyes fully developed, of 
fine texture, and good color are passed as extra; those having 
the same characteristics but a little greener and lighter in 
color, become extra-standard; those with some imperfect 
eyes, irregularities in color, or slight defects in cutting, 
become standard; and tops, butts, torn pieces, soft and hard, 
become seconds and water. A 50° syrup is used on both 
extra and extra-standard, and 40° syrup on the standard. 
The pineapple, though naturally high in sugar, requires a 
heavy syrup. Crushed pineapples come in two grades: 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 55 

that made from the excessively large fruit and that made 
from small fruits, tops, butts, and defective slices. The 
small disks from the core are packed for confectioners' use. 

Plums 

The plum is one of the fruit staples, though the quantity 
required to meet the deniand is not large. The green-gage, 
yellow egg, and Lombard are the varieties mostly used. 
The plums are handled to the factory like apricots. They 
are stemmed, washed, graded for size over screens having 
openings of 32, 40, 48, and 56 thirty-seconds of an inch, 
and are filled into the cans by hand, as it requires close 
packing to get the proper fill. The grades are extra, extra- 
standard, standard, seconds, and water, according to size 
and quality, and the syrups used to correspond are 40°, 30°, 
20°, 10°, and water. The green-gage plums have a some- 
what tougher skin and hold their shape better than the 
other varieties. The fresh prune, which is a variety of 
plum, as grown in Idaho, produces an article that has more 
of the damson flavor and that gives a beautiful brilliant 
color to the syrup. These are not found upon the market 
at present. 

Prunes 

Canned cured prunes, while not a new product, are not 
generally known to be upon the market. Cured prunes 
when canned give a different product from the fresh and 
also very different from the cured prune as stewed in the 
home. Cured prunes are graded for size, washed, and 
gently steamed for from five to fifteen minutes. They are 
then picked over for splits or marked fruit, filled into the 
cans by weight, and a 20° to 30° syrup added. They are 
given a process of about one hour, and allowed to cool very 
slowly. The fruit becomes very tender and conserves a 
deKcious flavor that is lost in the regular method of home 
preparation. The broken or marked fruit if pitted and run 
through a food chopper makes a delicious jam or basis for 
souffl6s. 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Raspberries 

Both the red and black varieties of raspberries are used, 
but are kept separate. The handling and treatment are 
the same as described under blackberries. 

Strawberries 

The strawberry used for canning should be of moderate 
size, of good color, firm, but not too acid. They should be 
stemmed and particular attention given to washing. The 
other treatment is the same as for blackberries. 

Olives 

The canned ripe olive has been used in this country 
almost exclusively as a condiment, owing partly to price, 
and partly to the irregularity of the product. It has un- 
usually high nutritive value and a peculiar pleasing taste, 
two elements which commend it as a food, provided the 
consumer can depend upon getting these qualities. The 
methods of packing are in a more or less experimental stage 
and improvement is constantly being made. 

The mission olive is preferred for canning owing to the 
superior flavor and better texture. Olives are picked when 
as nearly ripe as the handling will permit. If under-ripe, 
the pulp is rather "woody" and there is the absence of the 
rich oily, nutty flavor that is so much desired. If picked 
too ripe, the olives bruise too easily. They are hand- 
graded for quality and sorted for size by a special machine. 
The next step, the curing, is the most important in the 
entire operation. The treatment starts with soaking the 
olives in a weak solution of lye to remove the bitter, astrin- 
gent principle. This treatment requires a day or two, 
during which time the olives are taken out and returned to 
the solution a number of times and the strength of the 
solution altered according to the condition of the fruit 
and the rate with which the lye penetrates to the pit. 
This work requires skill as no tests have been developed 
to serve as a safe guide. As soon as the olives have been 
acted upon sufficiently, they are soaked in cold water for 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 57 

several days to remove the lye, and then placed in brine. 
The time for curing varies from fourteen to twenty-five 
days after which the olives are canned in weak brine. 

VEGETABLES 

Asparagus 

More than 90 per cent of the asparagus packed in the 
United States is grown and canned in a small district in 
California. The conditions for growth both in soil and 
climate are ideal The long tender stalks as they break 
through the ground are in the condition when metabolic 
changes take place very quickly, so they must be packed 
immediately to preserve them at their best. This has 
necessitated erecting the factories near the beds. Aspara- 
gus, such as that shipped across the continent and sold fresh 
cannot be used. 

The asparagus beds are gone over every day or every 
other day and the stalks cut just as they begin to show 
through the ground. If the stalk is cut before the tip has 
been exposed to sunlight, it will be white; if it projects 
through the ground an inch or more, it will become green. 
Some persons like the white, and others prefer the green, 
so both are canned. The stalk is seized at the tip and cut 
off a distance of 8 inches or more below the surface by means 
of a special chisel-like knife. When sufficient quantities 
have been cut, they are collected and taken to some con- 
venient point, packed in forms, and the stalks trimmed to 
a uniform length of 7J^ inches. They are washed to pre- 
vent any staining from the soil and carefully layered in lug 
boxes to be taken to the factory. The first operation is to . 
grade for size; the very large, known as giant, requires 
about fourteen stalks; mammoth, from twenty to twenty- 
two; large, from thirty to thirty-four; medium, about 
forty; and the small, about fifty stalks per can. The grad- 
ing is done by hand, judging entirely by appearance. That 
which is intended for the No. 2j^ tall square can is cut to 
5]/2 inches; for the No. 1 tall and No. 2 round, cut to 4 
inches; and for the tips, 3 inches. The stalks are blanched, 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




3 

03 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 59 

after which they are again graded into white and green. 
Some of the very large stalks are peeled, some scraped, and 
some brushed, the treatment being based on the condition. 
The stalks are placed in the cans, after which brine is added, 
and the processing done in the retort. There is no other 
vegetable or fruit which requires approximately the same 
amount of hand-work, so it is necessarily expensive. 
The practice of the better packers is to can each day's cut- 
ting as it is brought to the factory, and not to allow any to 
stand over night. 

Artichokes 

Only a few artichokes are packed and these are used 
almost exclusively in the hotel trade. The difficulty has 
been that they turn dark and become unattractive in 
appearance, though the flavor may be unchanged. The 
heads are selected and the coarser outer leaves cut off. 
They are blanched until tender, then the leaves are tied 
together to make a compact head. They are packed in 
the can and brine added, and are processed in a closed retort. 
The domestic artichokes have a thicker and more edible 
pulp on the base of the leaves than those which are imported. 

Artichoke Hearts 

The base of the flower is Ij^ inches or more in diameter 
and nearly J/^ of an inch thick when the leaves are removed. 
These are esteemed as a delicacy, and after being trimmed 
are handled in essentially the same manner as the whole 
head. 

Beans 

Green or string beans are rapidly becoming a staple food 
the same as peas. The only drawback is the large amount 
of work necessary for their harvesting and preparation. 
The harvesting is strictly a hand-picking job, as is also the 
snipping, as no machine has been developed which is 
satisfactory for either operation. The beans are picked 
while they are young and tender, preferably while they are 
less than 4 inches in length and less than f^ of an inch in 



Digitized by 



Google 



60 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

diameter. They are taken to the factory as promptly as 
possible and snipped. Some varieties have been developed 
which are practically stringless when young and fresh. 
The string becomes much more pronounced on standing 
and in mature pods. The beans are graded by special 
machines, the grades being determined by the thickness. 
The long beans and coarse beans are run through a cutter 
to obtain the proper length. The beans are blanched to 
make them tender, and are filled into the cans by a 
shaking machine, after which brine is added, and they are 
processed. 




Machine for grading beans according to size. 

Wax Beans 

Wax beans are handled in the same way as the string 
beans, but more attention is paid to sorting as the presence 
of spots becomes very objectionable. 

Lima Beans 

There are two varieties of lima beans, the long vine, or 
pole variety, and the bush variety; the former is grown 
extensively, in southern California, and the latter in the 
eastern states. The former is used mostly as a dry bean 
and the latter for canning green. For canning, the crop 
is harvested when the majority of the beans are in prime 
condition, the vines being pulled or cut and hauled to the 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 61 

factory and the beans shelled in a pea viner. The beans 
are then run over a grader having holes of 20, 30, 31, and 
32 thirty-seconds of an inch in diameter. The very large 
ones may become rather starchy and have the appearance 
of soaked beans. The beans are blanched, filled into cans* 
and brine added. In sections where corn and lima beans 
mature together, this variety is preferred for use in 
succotash. 

Soaked Lima Beans 

The California lima bean is sometimes soaked and 
canned. When the beans are cut early and carefully 
dried, they make an excellent product and are preferred by 
some persons to the green. They are also used in place of 




Machine for cutting fruits and vegetables into 
exact lengths. 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

the green in succotash, but the fact that soaking is done 
must be declared upon the label If the shaking be done 
in cold water, it is usually for a period of 12 to 16 hours, 
if in warm water, about 4 hours. A longer blanch is required 
than for the green beans. 

Beets 

Beets used for canning should be of a uniform deep red 
color throughout, those having red and white layers are 
unsuitable. Beets are usually grown so as to mature late 
in the season in order that they may have the advantage 
of developing while it is cool and also that they remain 
small. They are graded for size into those less than 1 
inch in diameter; from 1 to 13^ inches; from Ij^ to 2 
inches; and those above 2 inches Those above 2 inches 
are cut or sliced. The washed beets are placed in a retort 
and steamed for about twenty minutes at 220° F. (104.5 C.) 
in order to loosen the skin. They are then peeled, filled into 
cans, and brine added. If the beets are thin skinned and 
tender, cooking them in boiling water will suffice instead 
of steaming in the retort. 

Carrots 

Carrots are canned principally for use in soup stock, or 
for hotels and restaurants. Those used for canning should 
be not more than 1 inch in diameter. They are washed, 
scraped carefully, rewashed, and cut to the length of the 
can and packed like sweet potatoes, or cut into small slices 
or dice, and the interspaces filled with brine. 

Corn 

Corn is one of the three large staple canned foods. It is 
packed in Maine and from New York to Minnesota and as 
far south as Maryland and Missouri. The greatest cent r 
of production is in Illinois. Sweet corn only is used, but 
some of the varieties are so large and coarse that when only 
a small quantity is present it has been suspected to be field 
corn. There are two types, the long peg-like grain known as 
shoe-peg, and the large broad grain arranged in rows. The 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 



63 




Digitized by 



Google 



64 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




Corn-husking machine; eliminates the drudgery of husk- 
ing by hand. 

former is the smaller yielder, but owing to the compact 
arrangement of the kernels on the cob and the relatively 
small end exposed to harden, there is less tough hull on the 
grain. There is not much difference in sweetness if both 
are cut at the right time. 

The corn is grown in large tracts the same as field com. 
When it reaches tjie proper stage of maturity, it is snapped 
from the stalk and loaded on wagons. At the factory it is 
dumped on a conveyor which carries it to the different 
hoppers of the husking machines, or distributes it to the 
huskers. After the husking, the corn is inspected as it 
passes along a belt, and the extra-hard and the very soft 
and defective ears are held out. The ears pass hrough a 
silking machine to remove adherent silk and bits of husk, 
then under sprays of water, and finally are ready for the 
cutter. The corn is fed into a machine which has semi- 
circular knives so mounted that they will open and close 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 65 

to fit the size of the cob and will remove the kernels from 
all sides. Immediately behind the cutters are the scrapers 
which remove the small tips adherent to the cob. Different 
procedures are followed in cutting. In what is known as the 
Maryland style, the kernel is cut very close to the cob and 
no scraping done. This gives a canned corn with nearly 
whole grain, each kernel being separate in the brine. In the 
so-called cream corn or Maine style, the grains may or may 
not be cut close to the cob, but are scraped to remove the 




The cutters in a corn cutting machine. 

adherent portion. This gives a creamy consistency and 
is thick or thin depending upon the water added and the 
condition of the starch in the grain. In order to get a very 
fine consistency, the cutting may be done in such a manner 
that the outer end of the grain is cut off first and then the 
lower by what is known as double cutting or recutting. In 
a style known as hull-less corn, the ends of the kernels are 
slit and the contents squeezed out. A final method is to 
pass the corn through a cyclone, removing all the hull, 
thus producing a fine green meal mush, komlet. While i^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

is but natural that the corn should be cut close to the cob, 
especially in the Maine style, there may be a disadvantage, 
especially with that which is a little old or has been allowed 
to stand after gathering in the field, as the chaff from the 
cob acquires a very noticeable bitterness. 

After the corn is cut, it is run through a cleaner which 
removes bits of cob, husk, and silk. It is then passed to the 
mixer and the proper amount of water, bearing sugar and 




Silking and cleaning machine, combs the corn to re- 
move bits of silk, husk, or cob. 

salt in solution, is thoroughly stirred through the mass. 
It is then run into the cooker and filler. Though the proc- 
ess seems rather long and complicated, these steps are all 
accomplished without hand-work, except that of feeding 
the husker and cutter; they follow in such rapid succession 
that from the time the ear goes into the husker until the 
corn is in the can, sealed, and ready for the retort, may not 
be more than fifteen minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 67 

Okra 

Okra is a constituent of nearly all gumbos and is used 
extensively in southern cookery, though it is not generally 
known in the North. The packing is largely in gallon 
cans for stock for the soup manufacturer, though the small 
can is coming into use for home consumption as its char- 
acter becomes better known. The young tender pods are 
washed, the stem end cut off, the remainder of the pods 
filled into the cans, and brine added. They may be cut 
transversely into short lengths as it is not easy to cut them 
after canning. They are processed the same as beans. 

Peas 

The growing of peas in fields of hundreds of acres as 
compared with the little plot in the kitchen garden is not 
in greater contrast than that in the methods of handling 
in the factory and kitchen. Peas are grown for canning 
from New York south to Maryland, west to Illinois and 
Wisconsin, and in a few places in Colorado, Utah, and 
California. There are two types; the smooth and the 
sweet wrinkled. The peas are harvested in June, July, and 
August. When the majority of the peas are in prime 
condition, the whole plant is cut with either the ordinary 
mowing machine or a special pea harvester. They are 
loaded on wagons the same as hay and at the factory are 
fed into a machine known as a viner which threshes them 
out of the pods and makes the separation as clean as wheat 
from straw. The peas are run through a fanning mill to 
blow out bits of stems, leaves, and pods, after which they 
are washed under jets of water in a large wire cylinder 
known as. a squirrel cage, and are then passed through a 
sizer to separate them into five sizes. The standard holes 
are 18, 40, 22, and 26 sixty-fourths of an inch in diameter, 
and the peas are known as petit pois, extra sifted, sifted, 
early Jime, and marrow fat, in the same order respectively, 
the martow fat peas passing over the screen. With very 
large sweet wrinkled peas one more screen may be used, 
^ sixty-fourths of an inch, and those which remain above 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 




Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 69 

are known as telephone. The terms "petit pois," "extra 
fins," and "fins'* were originally from the French and refer 
to the size of the pea and not to the variety. In addition to 
sizing, which is practically standard in all pea canneries, 
there are some canners who grade all or part of the sizes 
for quahty. The peas do not mature alike, the lower pods 
are always somewhat more advanced than the topmost, 
and some plants are always more advanced than others 




Pea viner; shells as many peas in a day as 200 or more 
persons and with less bruising and no touching 
by hand. 



in the same field. It happens that old peas are heavier 
than the young and that an approximate separation can 
be made by floating the peas first in a weak salt brine, and 
then in a stronger one. Those which float in the first 
brine will be tender, those which float on the second brine 
somewhat harder, and those which go to the bottom are 
very hard. Automatic machinery has been devised to do 
this work easily and with considerable accuracy. The prod- 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

uct of a load of peas may be divided into from five tp fifteen 
grades upon size and quality. Some peas are packed 
ungraded, and the proportion thus packed is increasing. 
The percentage of the different grades varies with the 
variety, the rapidity with which the crop matures, and the 
state of maturity. The small size, petit pois, is always 
the least abundant and the early June the most abundant. 

)0000 

ooooc 

Screen for petit pois 

)0000 

ooooc 

Screen for extra sifted peas 

)000( 
OOGG 

Screen for sifted peas 




Screen for early June peas; Marrow-fat peas 
remain above this screen 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 71 

The very small ones bring the highest price, though the 
sifted pea probably has the best balanced pea flavor of the 
graded sizes, and the ungraded is probably the best of all. 
The peas are blanched according to their age and size. 
The very young tender peas need scarcely be more than 
dipped into boiUng water, one and one-half to two minutes 
being ample, while the very old hard ones may need 
twenty minutes. The time should be sufficient to make 
all peas tender, otherwise they will remain hard in process- 
ing. The blanching is usually done in a continuous 
manner, the machine being built to take the raw peas at 
one end of the cooker, and deliver them at the other ready 
for the can. The mechanism is usually a tank containing 
hot water and within which is a drum containing a screw 
devised to carry the peas through in a determined time. 
The water is constantly renewed and the temperature 
maintained by means of controllers. The peas are filled 
into cans by machines which deliver exact quantities and 
then add the necessary hot brine. They are processed in a 
retort. 

Chilis 

The long green sweet chili pepper raised in southern 
California and known as California chili is highly esteemed 
by Mexicans and those who like the Mexican or so-called 
Spanish style of cookery. These chilis are not strongly 
pungent and are canned both green and ripe, but preferably 
in the green condition. The Mexican chili is not canned. 
The chilis are picked when full grown but before any tint 
of red develops. They must be handled very rapidly 
from the field to the factory. The first operation is to 
either roast the pods or drop them into hot oil to loosen the 
skin from the fleshy portion. As soon as they are cool 
enough to handle, the outer skin is stripped, the stem picked 
off, and the seeds may or may not be pressed out. The 
fleshy portion is left as nearly whole as possible. It is 
washed, then folded upon itself, put into cans, and a 
small quantity of brine added. 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Pimienta 

For a time the canned pimienta came from Spain, but a 
domestic product equal in every respect is now on the 
market. The pimienta is a fleshy sweet pepper from 3 to 4 
inches long and about 2j^ inches across at the base. They 
are not very pungent. Unlike the chilis, the pimienta is 
canned when well colored, the method being essentially 
the same. 

Pumpkins 

Pumpkins are generally grown as a catch crop in the 
corn field but, when raised for canning purposes, as a 
special crop in open fields. It is necessary that the 
pumpkins color and ripen evenly all over, a condition which 
is hindered by the shading of the corn stalks. The harvest- 
ing takes place late in the faU after other crops are out of 
the way. The pumpkins are washed, cut in large slices, 
a couple of inches or more in width, placed in crates and 
steamed in the retort until soft. They are then run 
through a cyclone which removes the shell and fiber leaving 
a smooth even pulp. This is cooked to the proper consist- 
ency, filled into cans and processed. A small quantity of 
pumpkin is spiced when packed. The effect of cooking the 
spice in at the time of canning is better than making the 
addition at the time of using, but as the amount and 
character of the spicing is so largely a matter of taste, 
most packers prefer to omit this detail. 

Rhubarb 

Rhubarb is grown as a field crop for canning purposes. 
It is planted upon very rich soil in order to secure a luxu- 
riant growth of leaf stalk. The harvesting is done from 
May until August. The leaf stalk is broken at the level 
of the ground and then trimmed at both upper and lower 
ends. At the factory the stalks are washed and cut trans- 
versely into regular lengths of about ^ of an inch. The 
cans are filled tightly and water or syrup added. As sugar 
is necessary in using, it is better that this be added at the 
time of canning. Rhubarb should be canned in glass. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 73 

Spinach 

Spinach, though a comparatively recent addition to the 
list of canned vegetables, is growing in popularity. The 
plants are grown in drill rows, or the seed sown broadcast. 
There are two crops: an early spring crop, in May, and a 
late fall crop, in October. The plants are cut when the 
leaves are crisp and tender, usually before they have reached 
a height of 10 inches. At the factory the leaves are sepa- 
rated from the stems and the yellow leaves and coarse parts 
discarded. Next comes the very important operation of 
washing. This must be of the most thorough character, 
as the plants are low, and usually grown upon a light 
sandy loam and are prone to carry more or less grit. 
Heavy sprays of water are used and the spinach passed 
through the washer in small quantities at a time so that 
clumps cannot form and thus prevent the exposure of every 
leaf. The blanching is carried on for about three minutes, 
after which the leaves are filled into cans, brine added, and 
processed. 
Squash 

This is treated the same as pumpkin. 
Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet potatoes are a perishable product as compared 
with the white potato. They bruise easily, start decay, 
and discolor at the points where rootlets emerge. They 
will not keep well under the same conditions as the white 
potato, so that canning is a desirable method of preserving 
them. The potatoes are canned as soon as possible after 
digging as there is a large increase in waste in skin and on 
discoloration upon standing. The potatoes are sorted 
according to their size, those under 1 inch in diameter in 
one grade, and those above 1 inch in another, and then may 
be peeled by subjecting them to steaming in a retort or 
to lye-peeling. The smaller-sized potatoes are given a 
steaming, varying from 220° to 240° F. (104° to 116° C.) 
from eight to fifteen minutes, depending upon their condi- 
tion; the larger potatoes are steamed a little longer, the 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

steaming being continued until the skin will slip easily, and 
the potato be about half-cooked. The skins are pinched 
off as soon as the potatoes are cool enough to be handled, 
and the potatoes are then packed into the cans as quickly 
as possible. For a fancy pack the potatoes are layered 
more or less, but for a standard pack the cans are stuffed. 
The pack should be tight to avoid any air space as the 
presence of air will cause more or less discoloration. The 
exhaust should be very hot as the heat penetrates slowly 
and should be continued for a longer time than for any other 
vegetable. They are processed for about three hours in 
boiling water, as there is loss of color on processing at 
higher temperatures. 

Tomatoes 

The needs of a boarding school are reputed to be respon- 
sible for the first effort to pack tomatoes. Success attended 
the first experiment and from it has grown an industry of 
very large proportions. The tomato and the sundry 
products made from it head the list of canned vegetables. 
The plant is grown over a very large part of the country 
and the fruit is so easily canned that packing is done in 
the home, and in the small cannery as well as in the large 
one where hundreds of tons of fruit are used each day. 
The great growing centers are Maryland, Delaware, New 
Jersey, Virginia, southern Ohio, Indiana, western New York, 
and central California. 

The crop is field grown and yields from 2 to 20 tons of 
fruit per acre. The varieties chosen should preferably 
have a good, clean, red color, produce fruit of moderate 
size, be smooth, and ripen evenly all over. Fruit of exces- 
sive size does not fill into the can well, that which is wrinkled 
is difficult to peel, and that which fails to ripen at the base 
produces excessive waste. The average waste on packing 
is about 50 per cent. 

The harvesting is done when the fruit is fully ripe upon the 
vine. The fruit is collected in shallow crates, brought to 
the factory at once, and the packing done in the shortest 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOOPS 



75 




c8 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

possible time. The tomato is a delicate fruit and will not 
keep for more than a few days after picking if vine-ripened, 
and unless vine-ripened, it does not develop its character- 
istic flavor. 

The first operation at the factory is hand-sorting the 
tomatoes as they pass over a belt to the washer. All defec- 
tive fruit and that which will not can without undue waste 
or labor in preparation is culled out, and from the 
latter the soimd stock can be used for pulp or puree. The 
washing should be most thorough, preferably first by 




Pulping machine, capable of strain- 
ing a thousand or more gallons 
of tomato juice per hour. 



dumping into water and then under strong sprays to 
cause the removal of dirt. The tomatoes are then scalded 
in steam or hot water and are ready for the peelers. The 
steam or water is kept very hot in order to blister the 
skin before the heat has time to penetrate into the fruit. 
The scalded fruit is handled usually in shallow pans, the 
skins are stripped from the blossom end toward the stem, 
and the core removed with the minimum of cutting of the 
seed cells. The cans are filled either by hand or machine, 
the former method being used chiefly upon fancy goods. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 77 

A solid pack of tomatoes means that the cans are filled with 
whole tomatoes or large pieces and no water or juice added. 
Tomatoes are also packed by filling the can with whole 
fruit and adding juice to fill the inter-spaces. A third 
class of packers use part whole fruit and part pur^e, but 
must make the declaration "tomatoes and puree," upon 
the label. Tomatoes are also packed in combination with 
beans, chilis, corn, and okra. 

The small, irregular, and over-sized stock can best be 
made directly into pur6e or soup. The tomatoes are 
washed, scalded, rim through a cyclone which separates 
the skins, cores, seeds, etc., and is concentrated to from 
one-half to one-third the original volume, and then run 
through a finishing machine to remove every trace of 
roughness or fiber, when it is ready for the can. In many 
respects this is the ideal method as it requires the minimum 
of hand labor, reduces the volume of handling in cans and 
in freight, and is ready for immediate use for the making of 
soups, etc. In the use of canned tomatoes in the kitchen 
the first operation is nearly always that of running the fruit 
through a colander and this operation as well as the 
concentration can be done best by special machinery. 

Turnips 

Canned turnips are used almost exclusively in hotels, 
though there is no good reason why they should not come 
into more general use They are of good quality, inex- 
pensive, and convenient for preparation. The seed is 
sown to produce a crop late in the fall when the weather is 
cool. They are harvested when of small size, preferably 
less than 1}^ inches in diameter and are sweet and tender. 
They are washed and scraped, filled into the cans with 
brine, and processed. 

MARINE PRODUCTS 

Clams 

A very few soft clams are canned on the eastern coast, 
but the demand for the fresh ones has made the price 
almost prohibitive for packing. The process consists in 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

washing the clams, then dippmg them into hot water or 
steaming them until the shells open, removing the clam, 
cutting off the foot, and filling into the cans. The inter- 
spaces are filled with a salt brine. 

Clam Chowder 

This is an exceedingly variable product depending upon 
the proportion and the ingredients used. The usual ingre- 
dients are a small bit of pickled pork, potatoes, onions, 
clams, milk, and seasoning. As this is in reality a heavy 
stew, it admits of very wide latitude in preparation. In 
most cases the milk is omitted, and it is expected that it 
will be added when ready to serve. 

Minced Razor Clams 

The largest clam industry is now located upon the 
western coast in Washington and Oregon. The razor 
clam which is large and somewhat cylindrical in shape 
is found in considerable quantities on the beach. They 
are caught immediately after the tide goes out, before 
they get into their burrows.- They are not dug like the 
eastern clam as they go down too deep. 

The clams are first washed under sprays of water to 
remove the loose sand, and are then passed upon an endless 
belt which conveys them through hot water to loosen them 
from the shell. As they come away from the scalder, they 
are run over a shaker which detaches the greater portion of 
the shells. They are sprayed with cold water to cool 
them for handling. The clam is opened, the black is cut 
out, and they are again sprayed. An operator then takes a 
pair of scissors, splits the clam, cuts off the tip of the foot, 
removes whatever sand may be in the foot, and then re- 
moves the stomach. After another washing, the clam is 
run through a cutting machine where it is divided into 
small pieces or minced, filled into cans, and brine added. 

Crabs 

The packing of crabs is almost exclusively confined to 
the Virginia coast, as the supply in other waters is little 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 79 

more than that demanded for the fresh trade. The prin- 
cipal catch is from April until October. The crabs are 
placed in large iron crates and dipped into boiling water or 
run into a steam box for about twenty-five minutes. 
When cool, they are stripped; that is, the shell, viscera, and 
smaller claws are removed. The meat is then picked out 
of the bodies. A centrifugal is sometimes employed, also 
compressed air, but these have not superseded the older 
method. The meat is filled into the cans and then pro- 
cessed. For a particularly fancy article only the large 
white pieces are used. The darker colored meat is just as 
good though not so attractive in appearance. 

Oysters 

Oysters are canned along Chesapeake Bay, around 
Savannah, Georgia, and on the Gulf Coast. Their use as a 
canned food has diminished since the introduction of 
improved methods of shipment by refrigeration. This 
has not only improved the quality of the fresh oysters, but 
greatly lengthened the period of consumption. 

The oyster is taken from the reefs in deep water by 
dredges, and in shallow water by tongs. The dredge is a 
kind of iron scoop that is dragged along on the reef by the 
boat, and when filled, is raised to the deck by means of a 
windlass. The dredge, when loaded, will hold about a half- 
barrel. The tongs are much like a pair of large garden rakes 
hinged so that the teeth come together when closed. They 
can be used only in shallow water. 

When a load of oysters has been secured, they are taken 
to the factory and unloaded into iron cars, which are 
made the proper size to fit inside the steam box. The 
hose is turned on the oysters, and they are given a thorough 
washing. The car is then run into the steam box, and sub- 
jected to a temperature of about 236° F. (113° C.) for five 
minutes. This kills and partly cooks the oyster, and causes 
the shell to loosen so that the removal, shucking, as it is 
called, is an easy matter. The shucked oysters are washed 
and filled into the cans by weight. A weak brine is added 



Digitized by 



Google 



80 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

to complete the fill. The so-called oyster juice is nothing 
more than this brine with such extractives as come from 
the oysters in processing. 

Salmon 

The salmon is pre-eminently the sea-food in cans in this 
coimtry, the value of the pack being equal to nearly all 
other sea-foods combined. This great packing industry 
extends north from the Columbia river, along the Alaska 
coast. There are four varieties of fish used extensively, 
known by different names in the different localities; they are 
the Chinook, or King Alaska ; the blue back, or sock-eye; 
silver sides; and the humpback. Trade preference is for 
the salmon with the very reddish color, but for real flavor 
the paler color may be better, the meat not being so dry, 
and containing more oil. Under the present method of 
branding, one cannot be certain of the variety or grade 
from the label. 

Salmon are caught as they are leaving the sea to go up 
the rivers to spawn. Various methods are used for catching, 
from the small gill-net, requiring one attendant, to the 
enormous traps capable of corralling thousands of fish at 
a time. A trap represents the most efficient method of 
catching and is built by driving piles about 15 feet apart 
in the river or channel through which the fish will pass. 
The piles start at the shore and extend out and up stream 
at an angle for about one-fourth of a mile. Heavy wire 
netting is strung on these posts and at the upper end a 
square is constructed of the same piling and wire, which 
is known as the pot. An opening is left in the pot next to 
the line of the net which directs the fish into this enclosure. 
Connected with this pot is a smaller one about 12 feet 
square known as the spiller. The fish in the pot are di- 
rected into the smaller square through a wire tunnel, a 
wire net or brail lies on the floor and, when the fish are 
trapped, the brail can be raised by power, and thus dump 
tons of fish at a single haul into the boat alongside. The 
brail is dropped and the operation repeated until the trap 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 



81 




The iron chink. The most wonderful machine in the 
cannery. 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

is emptied. When the rivers are shallow, large nets or 
seines are used and dragged ashore by teams. 

The dressing of the fish, or butchering as it is called, is 
nearly all done by machinery. The heads and tails are 
cut off by saws and then the fish is fed into the iron chink 
which removes the fins, splits the body open, removes the 
viscera and scrubs the fish, and drops it into a tank of clean 
water. The fish is then inspected and the cleaning com- 
pleted by hand if any spot has escaped. They are next 
fed into the machine which cuts them into the correct 
lengths to fill the cans. The tall cans are filled by machin- 
ery, while most of the short cans are filled by hand. Each 
can is weighed and for this purpose automatic weighing 
machines are used, and correction made to proper weight 
before the cans go to the sealing machine. A very long 
exhaust and a heavy process are used. 

Many persons have a notion that fish-canning would be 
a sloppy and rather unclean operation. This is far from 
the actual condition. The machinery is automatic and so 
nearly perfect that it is attended with less muss than in 
most fruit and vegetable canneries. Salmon canning has 
made greater advancement than any other line of fish or 
meat packing. 

Sardines 

The canning of sardines is confined to the Maine Coast 
upon the Atlantic and to Monterey Bay in California upon 
the Pacific. The Government defines a sardine to be a small 
herring and they are generally between 5 and 10 inches in 
length. The fish which reach the greater length and above 
are now packed in round cans and sold as herring. The 
sardine caught on the Pacific Coast is larger and differs 
from that on the Atlantic. While the sardine industry is a 
large one, it is conducted in much the same manner as 
when it originated. 

The sardine is caught in weirs along the coast. A weir 
is a heart-shaped pen made of stakes, brush, wire, etc., 
and is built with one side near the shore. It has an opening 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 83 

facing the direction from which the tides come in and the 
opening is directed inward. The fish when once im- 
poimded, tend to swim around in a circle, and the opening 
being directed in, tends to cause them to pass without 
finding a way out. The fish are caught with the rising 
tide. Attached to the weir is a small enclosure or pound 
into which the fish are directed and held for twenty-four 
hours to free them of feed. They are taken out of the 
pound with a net. At the factory the fish are washed 
and placed in strong brine for about two hours, or until 
they are "struck," i, e., made firm by the salt. They 
are then well washed and delivered to the flaking machine. 
These machines place the fish in single layers on wire 
frames known as flakes, and are for the purpose of drying 
the fish. The flakes are racked on special trucks and 
run into a steam chamber for about twelve minutes and 
then into a dryer for about twenty minutes. The time 
depends upon the fatness of the fish and the temperature. 

The fish are then ready for the packing table. Here the 
head is taken off and as much of the body as may be 
necessary in order to make the fish fit the can. The 
large fish are eviscerated but not the small ones. The cans 
used are either the quarter-poimd or three-quarter pound 
flat. The can receives the proper amount of cotton-seed 
oil, olive oil, mustard, tomato, or sauce, before the fish are 
packed. The fish are carefully layered with the silvery 
portion of their bellies up so as to make a good appearance. 

On the Pacific Coast, the sardine is caught at night, by 
means of nets. The factory practice differs from that in the 
East in that the fish are decapitated and eviscerated before 
going into pickle. The flaking is done by hand, the fish 
being arranged in wire baskets, after which they are placed 
for a time in the driers. The fish are fried in hot oil the 
day before they are packed. The oval can only is used. 

Shad Roe 

The shad roe is packed as a by-product in the handling of 
shad. The quantity available is not large, but owing to 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

its excellent quality, it brings a good price. The roe is 
carefully washed, the proper quantity placed in cans and 
either brine, oil, or sauce added, sealed, and given a process 
of 240** F. (115.5° C.) for an hour. 

Shrimp 

The shrimp is a crustacean the same as the cray fish, 
crab, and lobster. They are caught in the Gulf of Mexico 
from Texas to Appalachicola, Florida, and on the Atlantic 
Coast as far north as Savannah. Shrimp are caught in 
other places, but are not of proper size or in sufficient 
quantity to can. Formerly the catch was very irregular 
as they had to be taken in nets in shallow water less than 
6 feet deep. The invention of new fishing tackle makes 
it possible to fish in water 30 feet deep, and has greatly 
increased the available supply. 

The fishing is done with nets, and, as soon as they are 
brought on board the boats, they are iced, as they not 
only keep better, but the period of holding in the ice at the 
plant is shortened. The icing greatly facilitates the work 
of heading and picking at the factory. The preparation 
at the factory consists of removing the head and thorax, 
squeezing the heavy muscular part out of the shell, wash- 
ing, and then dropping into boiling brine for about 
four minutes. The blanched shrimp are turned out upon 
wire tables to cool, and are then run through a wire squirrel- 
cage to rid them of particles of shell or small broken pieces. 
In the smaller factories this work is done by hand. The 
cans are filled by weight and may be packed wet or dry. 
A wet-pack shrimp has weak brine added, while the dry- 
pack is without such an addition. The wet shrimp has 
more of the original or natural flavor than the dry. 

Tuna 

American canned tuna is of comparatively recent origin. 
Although the tuna belongs to the mackerel family, it was 
not regarded as a specially good food fish. A method of 
treatment was developed, however, which has made one 
of the best and most popular fish products. The tima is 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 85 

a rather large, very firm fish. It is caught with hook and 
line. It is bled and dressed as soon as it is drawn into the 
boat. At the factory the fish are washed and hung up by 
the tail for twelve to twenty-four hours to be certain of 
the drainage of all blood. They are then placed in 
pans or on iron racks and run into ovens and baked by 
steam heat for about three hours which loosens the skin 
from the flesh, and the flesh from the bones, causes the oil 
to separate, and produces a marked whitening of the flesh. 
When cold, the skin is peeled off, the white meat is sepa- 
rated from the dark, and cut into suitable lengths to fit the 
cans. The meat is carefully graded, the white being used 
for the highest grade, while the dark meat and the small 
bits and scraps from the white meat are run through a 
grinder, spices may or may not be added; the latter 
product is sold as potted or deviled tuna. When the 
cans are filled, instead of using the oil from the fish, either 
olive oil or a mixture of olive and cotton-seed oil is used. 
Tuna has a distinctive flavor that makes it particularly 
desirable for salads. 
Fish Flakes 

Fish flakes are a mixture of fish meats, though principally 
of cod and haddock. Instead of drying, as has been cus- 
tomary, the fish are lightly corned, then put on trays, run 
into a retort, and given a steaming sufficient to loosen the 
skin, and to permit the bones being lifted almost free from 
the flesh. By this treatment the flesh breaks apart in layers 
making a product known to the trade as flakes. The skin 
and bones are easily picked out by hand, and the meat 
filled into paper-lined cans. No sauce is added. This 
gives a very tender and better flavored product than that 
secured by the method of hard salting and drying. 

MEATS 

Meats 

The canning of meats for interstate commerce is under 
government supervision. No meat may be used which 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 



COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 







<v 

c 

eS 

a 



^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 87 

has not been inspected, the plants must comply with 
prescribed sanitary regulations, and the methods be 
approved. This is the only line of canning under inspec- 
tion. It practically limits the canning to the large slaughter 
houses, or to companies purchasing only inspected products 
and having inspectors in their plants. 

The meats used for canning are principally the fore- 
quarters of beeves, and other parts that cut with waste upon 
the butcher's block. The meat is stripped from the bones, 
the larger layers of fat removed, and it is then placed in a 
jacketed kettle to heat for an hour or more just below the 
boiling point. This causes a marked shrinkage and loss 
of weight — 30 to 40 per cent. K the meat be cut into 
pieces and put into cans without this preliminary cooking, 
it will shrink and float in an unattractive looking liquor. 
The cooked meat is cut into the proper sized pieces and 
packed into the cans. A quantity of meat jelly is added to 
prevent the meat adhering to the tin in spots, and also to 
give it a better appearance. 

Some of the meats are partially cured before canning, as 
corned beef. Sausages and minced, deviled, and potted 
meats are cooked and run through meat cutters or grinders. 
These products are generally made from meat trimmings 
and pieces too small to use in the regular style. Some of 
these contain mixtures of meats, some cereal, and others 
spices. The packing of chicken, turkey, and game follows 
the general routine of meat packing. Owing to the difficul- 
ties in processing, and the possible danger from the use of a 
spoiled meat product, it is strongly advised not to attempt 
home-canning. 

MILK 
MUk 

Canned milk may be obtained at almost any grocery 
store in the country, either as evaporated milk or as 
condensed milk. The difference is that in the former, the 
milk is concentrated and then sterilized, while in the latter 
it is concentrated and then sugar added to preserve it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

The packing of milk requires greater care throughout the 
various operations than is usually found in the dairies 
supplying the fresh milk trade. An evaporating plant 
cannot operate unless it be assured of a fairly constant 
supply of several thousand pounds per day. This supply 
must come from large producers; a dairyman with only 




Milk plant, showing clarifier, vacuum pan, cooler, and 
holding tank. 

two, three, or four cows is not a desirable patron. The 
character of the feed is kept under control, the health of 
the herds, the sanitary condition of the stables, the handling 
of the milk, and the time of delivery are all matters of 
factory supervision in order to secure a liigh and uniform 
quality in the raw product. The effect of concentrating 
and high temperature is such that milk if not first class 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNi;D FOODS 89 

will curdle, separate, and otherwise become unmerchant- 
able. Milk which would pass in the fresh market might 
not be suitable for condensing. 

As soon as the milk is drawn, it is strained and either run 
over a cooler or filled into cans that are set in a chilling 




Milk plant, equipment for filling and sterilizing cans. 

tank to reduce the temperature as quickly as possible. 
At the factory the milk is first run through a clarifier to 
remove all foreign matter, and is drawn into large tanks 
or forewarmers, in which it is heated to near the boiling 
point. The milk is then tested to determine the ratio of 
evaporation necessary to bring it to the desired standard. 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

The concentration is conducted in a vacuum pan, in order 
that the evaporation may go on at a low temperature. 
The boiling proceeds between 130° and 150** F. (54° and 
66° C). When it is believed that the batch is nearly 
completed, a "strike" is made and the milk tested, and 
this is repeated at short intervals until the desired con- 
sistency has been reached. The completed batch is drawn 
over coolers into storage tanks, and very carefully tested 
for fats and solids to be certain that it will comply with 
the minimum requirements of the food regulations, that is, 
it shall not contain less than Z5,5 per cent total solids and 
not less than 7.8 per cent of milk fat. 

The cans are filled, and are agitated while being processed. 
This is for the purpose of preventing overheating the very 
thin layer of the milk next to the tin. 

If condensed milk is being prepared, sugar is added to 
the hot milk before it goes into the pan, or heavy syrup is 
made and drawn into the pan with the milk. The propor- 
tion is about 16 per cent by weight to the raw milk so that 
when evaporated it is equivalent to about 40 per cent. 
The condensed milk is tested the same as the evaporated 
on the finished product, is run into the cans, sealed, but 
given no subsequent sterilization. 

The great advantage of the evaporated milk is that it 
is of a certain quality, is sterile, and remains free from 
contamination until the can is opened. 



SPECIALTIES 

Beans 

The canning of pork and beans, beans with tomato 
sauce, and baked beans is a very large business in itself. 
The white or navy bean grown in Michigan, Wisconsin, 
and New York is preferred for canning. The beans are 
machine-cleaned and hand-picked for defects. They are 
soaked from twelve to twenty hours in cold water, the 
water being changed about every four hours. The beans 
are then either placed in large jacketed kettles and heated 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 91 

to near the boiling point for from thirty minutes to an horn* 
and a half, or are blanched from ten to twenty minutes. 
A bit of pork is placed in the can, the beans are filled to 
the proper height, and sauce added so that when processed, 
they will have the proper consistency. There is a very 
marked difference in the mode of preparation and the 
sauce used. There are very few baked beans. This term 
implies the subjection of the beans to heat before being put 
into cans, which entails a loss of weight in the process. 
Heating in the closed can gives a different effect, and it is 
a matter of personal opinion which is better. 

Hominy 

Hominy is used in every logging and mining camp in the 
country. It is a food much relished by those engaged in 
hard physical work, and the panned article is the one 
preferred, because of the ease and the short time required 
for preparation. It is also becoming a fairly popular 
breakfast food, when served with milk. In the high class 
hotels it frequently appears under titles, such as "Cream 
of Whole Com." 

Hominy is made from selected white shelled corn. It is 
sere ned to take out the small defects and split grains. It 
is then washed and subjected to hot lye for from twenty to 
forty-five minutes. During this time it is agitated. 
When the hull loosens, the corn is run through a machine 
which removes the hull from the kernel. The next step 
is thorough washing and soaking, which requires several 
hours, and at most factories the soaking process is con- 
tinued over night. The can is filled with the proper 
amount, and weak brine added. 

Sauer Kraut 

Sauer kraut is made by cutting cabbage into fine shreds, 
packing it tightly in large tanks or casks, and permitting 
it to ferment through the activity of its own organisms. 
This product has a rather ancient history in Central 
Europe and Russia, but the greatest modern improvement 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

is in distributing it in cans. The packing of sauer kraut 
is growing very rapidly in this country. 

The cabbage is trimmed of its outer coarse and green 
leaves, the core is cut out or shredded by a special cutter, 
and the heads are then thrown into the cutter. This 
consists of a series of curved knives mounted in a wheel, 
the knives being set to cut as coarse or as fine as desired, 
the finely cut cabbage is packed tightly into large vats and 
as each layer is packed, about 2 per cent by weight of salt 




A small group of kraut tanks. 

is added. The top is covered tightly and weighted. If 
the temperature is above 60° F. (16° C), fermentation 
will begin at once, a brine will rise above the cabbage and 
will remain for two weeks or more, depending upon the 
temperature, and then gradually return to the mass. This 
marks the completion of the fermentation which indicates 
that the kraut is fit for consumption. 

The kraut is filled into cans by weight, a weak brine 
added and it is given a short process at boiling temperature. 

Soup 

This is described on page 113. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 



93 




a 



O 

B 



< 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 

Introductory 

The object of the work that follows is to indicate how 
some canned and other prepared foods may be used in 
ways to lighten work in the preparation of various dishes, 
and especially how they may be used in more appetizing 
ways than the ordinary reheating. In the recipes that 
follow, either fresh or canned material may be used, but 
it is believed that the latter will usually prove the more 
economical. 

In the ordinary treatise on the use of canned foods their 
advantage for emergencies is given, sometimes accompanied 
by a list of foods which should be in the emergency closet, 
or a menu for unexpected guests is given in which canned 
foods play a leading part, and enable the ingenious house- 
keeper to display her skill creditably. The tendency of 
the basic reasoning is somewhat illogical and misleading. 

The housekeeper likes something better than the ordinary 
for company, and if that has been obtained, and with it a 
shortening of the time of preparation and inevitably with 
the shortening a lessening of the labor, then why not use 
these foods commonly instead of in emergencies? 

The relative cost of canned and fresh stock is not well 
understood. Any estimate made to determine which is 
the cheaper should include not only the first cost of raw 
material, but also the added labor in securing the material, 
in its preparation, and in the disposal of the waste. In the 
rural districts and in the smaller cities and towns, the cost 
of fresh material is low, but in the larger cities it may not 
become heap at any season. When peas or tomatoes cost 
10 cents or more for a quarter of a peck, a can is almost 
certain to be the cheaper, for it requires more than this 
quantity of either to make one can. It requires on an 
average more than four ears of sweet corn to make one 
can. Peas, string beans, tomatoes, and beets, shipped from 
the south to northern markets, or asparagus shipped from 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 95 

Califomia to the East, are always much higher than the 
corresponding products in cans. There is a real need for 
both the fresh and the canned, and the latter cannot be 
substituted in whole for the former, but most persons 
do not know the basis on which to make a discrimination 
between the two in the matter of cost. What applies to 
the few products cited, applies with equal force to many 
others. The canner buys by the hundreds of tons and thus 
he is enabled to deliver goods in quantity and of a quahty 
equal to, or better, than can be delivered raw in the regular 
fresh market. 

In the preparation of many of the nicer dishes in which 
skill is required, the part in which individuality is used is 
after the meat, vegetable, or fruit is cooked, and in many 
cases cooled. For these dishes it would seem unprofitable 
for the housekeeper to do the rougher work of sorting, 
washing, peeling, and preliminary cooking, and to look 
after the disposal of the waste, if this work is avoidable. 
It is in this respect that the better hotels and restaurants 
have the advantage, as they waste no time in preliminary 
work which can be more advantageously done by outsiders, 
and they look after the cost much more closely than the 
housekeeper; if it were cheaper, or if the finished foods were 
better, they would use the raw products. The housekeeper 
has spent most of her energy in doing the rougher work, 
and has little left for the part requiring skill, so that 
necessarily "plain" foods are served. 

A feature which enters into the higher cost of using 
canned foods is that the ordinary housekeeper is possessed 
of a form of pride which permits her to use only the highest 
grade article, though when she buys raw material in the 
market she must necessarily use it ungraded, as a very 
large amount would be required to grade as done in the 
factory. For an example, twelve peaches are often times 
better suited to her purpose than six larger halves, and 
cost less; and there is more nourishment and flavor in a can 
of fully developed peas at one-half to two-thirds of the 
cost of the tiny immature ones. 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

An important step in the reduction of the cost of canned 
foods is the purchase of case lots. At the present time the 
retail price is based upon the single can, and there is little 
concession made for sales in dozens or cases, either straight 
or mixed. Any smoker can go to the comer tobacconist 
and buy a box of "indulgence" at almost wholesale rates. 
There Js far more reason why this principle should apply to 
canned foods. 

Kinds of Food 

The variety of foods canned is constantly increasing, 
as it is found from experiment that certain foods can be 
utilized the entire year, instead of for only a limited season, 
or that certain foods are improved by the treatment. 
In foreign countries many products are canned of which 
the average person is wholly unaware, the goods being used 
by the natives only, or by those who have traveled, or where 
the price is high, available only to persons of means. In 
our own country many foods are canned which are also 
unknown to the average consumer, but which, if known, 
would not only lighten the labor of preparation, but add 
variety to the menu, as well as in many cases lessening the 
cost. There are also many foods and condiments pre- 
pared in other ways than by canning, which, if known, 
would be of considerable advantage to the housekeeper in 
aiding her to give variety to the menu. Among these are 
prepared sauces and forms of ketchup which may be used 
to impart flavor and a degree of piquancy to the ordinary 
sauces. Preparations of the various spices, spiced salts, 
and herbs are also valuable additions to the kitchen sup- 
plies, and as they are in dry form, may be kept without 
fear of spoiling. 

The following is a list of the more common canned foods. 
Those marked with a star, while packed in tin and glass and 
popularly called "canned," are not sterilized by heat. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 97 

Soups 

Asparagus. 

Beef — broth, soup, juice, extracts (liquid, solid). 
Bouillon — beef. 

Chicken — broth, chowder, consomme, gumbo, okra. 
Clam — bisque, bouillon, broth, chowder. 
Consomme — ordinary, condensed. 
Julienne. 

Meat — extracts (liquid, solid, juice). 
Mulligatawny. 
Mutton — ^broth. 
Okra. 
Onion. 

Oxtail — clear, thick. 
Oyster — bisque. 
Pea. 

Pepper pot. 
Petite Marmite. 
Printaniere. 

Puree — asparagus, beans, lima beans, celery, peas, 
tomato. 

Tomato — nectar, puree, okra. 
Turtle — clear, green, mock. 
Vegetable — clear, condensed. 
Vermicelli — tomato. 

Fish and SheUfish 

Anchovies — ^whole, paste. 
Carp — smoked. * 
Caviar.* 

Cod — sliced, shredded, balls, cakes. 
Eels — in jelly, spiced. 
Haddock (Finnan haddie). 
Halibut. 

Herrings — afresh, bloated, kippered, in tomato sauce, 
smoked.* 
Mackerel — ^plain, broiled, salted. 
Menhaden. 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Pickerel — smoked. * 

Pike — smoked. * 

Roe — caviar (sturgeon or other fish),* cod, herring, 
salmon. 

Salmon — plain, smoked.* 

Sardels. 

Sardines — oil, mustard, tomato, soused. 

Shad. 

Sturgeon — pickled, smoked.* 

Tuna — white, dark, mixed, spiced, deviled, potted, 
chowder. 

Trout — smoked . * 

Clams — httle neck, razor backs. 

Crabs — ^plain, deviled. 

Lobsters — ^plain, pickled. 

Oysters. 

Shrimps — dry, wet, headless, paste. 

Terrapin. 

Turtle. 

Meats 

Bacon — sliced . * 

Beef — ^a la mode, boiled, braised, brisket. Burgundy 
style, chipped,* cornedjdried,* extract, goulash (Hungarian 
style), knuckles, minced, roast, sliced, smoked,* stew, suet. 

Beef — ^with onions, with vegetables, hash (corned and 
roast beef). 

Brains. 

Chicken — ^boneless, potted, deviled, tamales, saute a la 
Marengo, curried, provencale, liver. 

Duck — roast, wild. 

Goose — roast, pate de foie gras. 

Grouse. 

Ham — deviled, loaf, potted. 

Irish stew. 

Kidneys — stewed. 

Lamb— roast, tongue. 

Liver — with bacon, with onions. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 99 

Loaf — beef, chicken, ham, veal. 

Mutton — roast. 

Ox-tails, tongue. 

Partridge. 

Pork — ^pig's feet, lard. 

Quail. 

Sausage — ^Frankfurt, German lunch, lunch, Oxford, pork, 
sausage meat, with sauer kraut, Vienna. 

Tongues — calf's, lamb, lamb pickled, lunch, ox, picnic. 

Tripe — boiled. 

Turkey — ^roast. 

Specialties — Chile con came with and without beans, 
collops, hash of various kinds, mince meat, deviled and 
potted mixtures. 

Stews — army rations. 

Veal — ^loaf, roast. 

Game pates truffled — chicken, chicken liver, wild duck, 
grouse, partridge, quail. 

Entrees — braised beef a la jardiniere. 

Vegetables 

Artichokes — heads, hearts. 

Asparagus — stalks, pieces (soup stock). 

Beans — ^baked, with tomatoes, with pork, kidney, lima, 
string, wax. 

Beets — various sizes, pieces. 

Bread — ^Boston brown. 

Brussels sprouts. 

Cabbage. 

Carrots. 

Cardoon. 

Cauliflower. 

Corn — cream, Maryland style, kornlet, corn-meal mush, 
on the cob. 

Cucumbers. 

Dandelions. 

Endive. 

Hominy — whole, pearl (cut). 



Digitized by 



Google 



100 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Kale. 

Lentils. 

Mixed vegetables for soup. 

Mushrooms — heads, pieces. 

Oatmeal. 

Okra — slices, with tomatoes. 

Olives — green, ripe, stuffed* (with pimienta, celery, 
capers, nut meats), rings, in oil. 

Onions. 

Parsnips. 

Peanut — butter.* 

Peas. 

Peppers — ^pimienta (sweet), green, red. 

Pickles — gherkins. 

Potatoes — sweet. 

Pumpkin — plain, spiced. 

Rice. 

Salsify. 

Spinach. 

Squash. 

Succotash. 

Tomatoes — whole, pieces, pulp, chili sauce, ketchup, 
nectar. 

Truffles. 

Turnips. 

Whole wheat. 

Fruits 

Apples — whole, halves, pieces, sauce, butter. 

Apricots — ^whole, halves, slices, pieces. 

Blackberries — dry, syrup. 

Blueberries. 

Cherries — ^white, red, black, maraschino. 

Crabapples. 

Cranberries — sauce . 

Currants. 

Figs — ^whole, pieces, 

Gooseberries, 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 101 

Grapes. 
Grapefruit. 

Loganberries — dry, syrup. 
Nectarines. 
Oranges. 

Peaches — whole, halves, slices, pieces. 
Pears — whole, halves, pieces. 
Pineapples — slices, pieces, grated. 
Plums — green, red, purple. 
Prunes — dry, syrup. 
Quince — ^pieces. 

Raspberries — black, red, white. 
Rhubarb. 
Strawberries. 
Tamarinds. 

Specialties 

Cake — various kinds.* 
Cider. 
Cheese.* 
Chili con carne. 
Chow chow. 
Conserve. 
Eggs.* 
Enchilladas. 

Fruit-butters — (plain, spiced), crushed, pulp. 
Honey.* 
Jams. 
Jellies. 
Marmalades. 

Milk — condensed, evaporated, dry. 
Mince — ^with and without meat, dry, moist. 
Molasses. 
Olive mixtures. 
Pie crust.* 

Puddings — ^fig, plum, etc. 
Salad dressings. 

Sauces — ^for meats, vegetables, puddings (brandy, 
custard). 



Digitized by 



Google 



102 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Spiced and pickled fruits. 
Tamales. 
Ready-Made Entrees 

Braised beef a la jardiniere. 
Beef a la mode. 
Beef, Burgundy style. 
Goulash, Hungarian style. 
Sauer kraut and sausage. 
Veal and green peas. 
Calf's tongue, tomato sauce. 
Calf's tongue, sauce piquante. 
Chicken curry a la Marengo. 
Chicken a la provencale. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 103 

SAUCES 

In making the roux for sauces, starch gives a smoother, 
more transparent thickening than flour. Since the starch 
is the only part of the flour that is necessary and that 
thickens, there is no reason for using flour except as a 
matter of convenience. When starch is used, only half 
the amount is required that would be necessary if flour 
were used. Any of the starches, as corn, arrow-root, 
potato, etc., may be used. A few of the sauces that are 
oftenest used and which may be modified to suit particular 
dishes are given. 

The numbers in parentheses in the list of ingredients 
indicate the size of can required. 

Cream Sauce 

One ounce butter, one ounce flour or one-half ounce corn 
starch, one-half pint cream, salt, pepper, mace. 

Heat the butter, add the thickening gradually, working 
it smooth, being careful not to let it burn, then add the 
cream gradually. It may be thinned with milk or white 
stock, and varied by using nutibeg instead of mace, and 
may also have the juice of a lemon added. 

Bearnaise Sauce 

Four ounces butter, four egg yolks, four tablespoons tarragon 
vinegar, one small onion, one sprig of thyme, salt, six pepper- 
corns. 

Cook in a saucepan the vinegar, the minced onion, the 
thyme, salt, and peppercorns. When reduced to two- 
thirds, take ofiF the fire and cool, then beat in the yolks. 
Put the saucepan on a low flame, add the butter gradually, 
stirring constantly until the yolks have cooked and thick- 
ened the sauce. Strain while warm. The sauce should 
not be served hot, as it is really more of a mayonnaise. 

The sauce is usually made with shallots, but onion or an 
equivalent amount of leaves of chives may be substituted. 



Digitized by 



Google 



104 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Bechamel Sauce 

One ounce butter, one-half ounce arrowroot or other starch, 
one onion, few whole peppers, thyme, one pint milk, one 
ounce veal, salt, nutmeg. 

Saut^ the minced onion and veal, then add with the 
other seasoning to the hot milk, cover, and let infuse on a 
very low flame. Make a roux of the butter and starch, 
and pour the hot milk on, stirring until smooth, cook the 
sauce for fifteen minutes. Strain. It may be thinned 
with stock or cream. A small bit of ham is sometimes 
added with the veal. 

Beamaise Tomato Sauce 

This is made by adding to the finished Bearnaise sauce 
a quarter of a pint of tomato puree. 

Espanola (Spanish) Sauce 

Two ounces butter, two tablespoons flour or one of starch, 
one can consomme (highly seasoned), two tablespoons tomato 
pur^e or ketchup. 

Make a brown roux by stirring the butter and starch 
over a low fire, until of a brown color, then add the hot 
stock slowly so as to keep the sauce smooth, and the tomato. 
Cook slowly for about an hour, removing the scum from 
time to time. If necessary, add more stock. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Eight ounces butter, five egg yolks, juice of one lemon, salt, 
cayenne. 

Put the lemon juice and the yolks in a double boiler, 
and add the butter, a bit at a time, stirring constantly until 
the sauce is creamy. The water must be kept from boiling 
or the eggs will scramble. A safer way is to whisk the eggs 
until creamy, then remove the vessel from the fire, and add 
the butter gradually. The sauce may be thinned with 
cream or with water. The consistency may be varied by 
the number of eggs used or by the extent of the cooking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 105 

Fish Sauce 

An excellent sauce is made by adding whipped cream to 
the Hollandaise, adding the cream slowly, and in the pro- 
portion of one part cream to two parts of the Hollandaise. 

Butter Sauce 

Put the desired amount of butter in a saucepan and brown 
slightly, at the same time removing the froth. When 
ready to remove from the fire, season with salt and lemon 
juice, and strain over the fish or meat to be served. 

Tomato Sauce 

One can tomato puree (No. 1), one ounce butter, one carrot, 
one onion, six peppercorns, three ounces ham. 

Brown the minced onion, carrot, and ham in the butter, 
add the peppercorns and the tomato and simmer for half 
an hour, then add starch to thicken, cooking again, so as 
not to have a raw flavor. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Make a white or cream sauce, using the mushroom liquor 
instead of cream or milk. Just before serving add the 
mushrooms and cream, and after that a teaspoon of lemon 
juice. 

East India Sauce 

One can chicken broth (No. 1), one small onion, one apple, 
two ounces butter, one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, one 
table spoon Bengal chutney, salt, pepper. 

Mince the onion, brown in the butter, then add the apple 
minced and the broth or stock, and cook until the apple is 
soft. Strain through a wire sieve, then add the Worcester- 
shire sauce and the chutney. 

Sauce for Cold Meat 

To a pint of thick mayonnaise add gradually a quarter 
pint of whipped sour cream that has had added to it the 
juice of a lemon and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



106 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Salad dressings are as easily made as any other simple 
sauce if the tradition in regard to having all the ingredients 
chilled is set aside. Oil need not be held in the refrigerator, 
but is better at the room temperature, and salt added at 
the start helps in the blending of the egg yolks and oil. 
An average-sized egg yolk will blend with five tablespoons 
of oil, and an extra tablespoon may be added if the mayon- 
naise is to be used at once. The separation of the oil and 
yolk is due to the oil being too cold, or to an excess of oil. 

When it is desired to have the mayonnaise hold its form, 
gelatin may be added in the proportion of a quarter tea- 
spoon to the cup of mayonnaise. The gelatin is soaked 
in a tablespoon of water, then dissolved with the smallest 
quantity of boiling water, and when cool, and before it sets, 
added to the mayonnaise. This is done sometimes by pro- 
fessional caterers in preparing large amounts, as the dress- 
ing retains its body. 

French Dressing 

One-half teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon paprika, six 
tablespoons oil, two tablespoons vinegar. 

Mix the salt, paprika, and a small quantity of oil, then 
the rest of the oil, and lastly the vinegar. The dressing 
may be varied by using celery salt, a few drops of onion 
juice, or rubbing the bowl with a cut clove of garlic. 

Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

The same as mayonnaise, but add one-quarter pint of 
stifl3y beaten cream when ready to serve. 

Cream Dressing 

Two eggs, one teaspoon sugar, one-quarter teaspoon salt, 
one-quarter teaspoon mustard, three tablespoons vinegar, one 
tablespoon cream. 

Mix sugar, salt, and mustard; add to the eggs well beaten. 
Place in a double boiler and add the vinegar and cream. 
Cook until it thickens, beating constantly while cooking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 107 

Boiled Dressing 

Two eggs, one teaspoon sugar, one-half teaspoon mustard* 
one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon paprika, one-half 
pint vinegar. 

To the well beaten eggs add the sugar, mustard, salt, and 
paprika mixed thoroughly, then the vinegar. Gook in a 
double boiler until it thickens. Beat with an egg-beater 
while cooking. 
Boiled Dressing 

Two egg yolks, four tablespoons olive oil, two tablespoons 
vinegar, one tablespoon lemon juice, one teaspoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half pint double cream. 

Beat the yolks, add half of the oil gradually, then the 
vinegar, lemon juice, and the seasoning. Cook in double 
boiler until it thickens, cool, then add the remaining oil, 
and when ready to serve, the stiffly beaten cream. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

One-half teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon salt, trace of 
cayenne, two egg yolks, one-third pint olive oil, three-fourths 
tablespoon lemon juice, three-fourths tablespoon vinegar. 

Mix the mustard, salt, and cayenne so as to have no 
lumps, add to the egg yolks, stirring until smooth, then add 
the oil drop by drop at first, until very thick, then alternate 
the remainder of the oil with the lemon juice and vinegar. 
If a light dressing be desired, use all lemon juice. The 
vinegar may be added to the yolks and seasoning, beaten 
well, and the oil then added, as at first, drop by drop. 

Tartar Sauce 

To a cupful of mayonnaise add a teaspoon each of minced 
capers, olives, and whole small cooked peas; chopped pickles 
may be substituted for the olives, and parsley may be very 
finely minced and used. 

Swiss Mayonnaise 

To one-half pint of mayonnaise add two medium sized 
potatoes which have been cooked, seasoned with onions, 
salt, pepper, and mashed light. Just before serving add 
the stiffly beaten white of the egg. 



Digitized by 



Google 



108 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Remoiilade Dressing 

Three hard boiled egg yolks, one-half teaspoon salt, one- 
eighth teaspoon cayenne, one raw yolk, one-quarter pint olive 
oil, one tablespoon vinegar. 

Mash the cooked yolks until perfectly smooth, then work 
in the raw yolk. Add the salt and cayenne, and the olive 
oil drop by drop at first, stirring rapidly, then the vinegar, 
adding this gradually and mixing well. 

This may also be made by taking one pint of mayonnaise 
and adding to it one tablespoon of each of the following: 
mustard, minced gherkins, capers, and a teaspoon each of 
parsley, tarragon, and chives. 

Roquefort Mayonnaise 

To one-half pint of mayonnaise add two tablespoons of 
grated Roquefort cheese, mixing until the dressing is 
smooth. This should be used only on lettuce, endive, or 
other green salad. 

Vinaigrette Sauce 

To French dressing add minced parsley, capers, olives, 
pickles, and grated onions. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 109 

GARNISHES 

Garnishing a salad adds materially to its attractiveness, 
and in many cases to its nutritive value. Below are given 
some garnishes which are easily prepared: 

Celery 

Tender tips, stalks slit so as to curl, tender rounded 
stalks filled with cheese, or cheese and other mixtures, the 
outer coarse stalks removed at the root, the root trimmed 
so as to taper, then the remaining stalks and root cut into 
quarters, each quarter will thus have a portion of the tender 
inner stalks. 

Beets 

The beets are removed from the can and drained, then 
soaked in spiced vinegar for a few hours, removed from the 
vinegar and sliced, cut into dice, balls, narrow uniform 
strips, or fancy shapes. 

Chives 

Leaves cut into ujiiform lengths, or minced. 

Hard Boiled Eggs 

Halved, sliced rings of white, yolk put through ricer, 
or yolk removed and mixed with relish, then returned to 
white. 

Lemons 

Cut in slices, quarters, points, or serrated. 

Olives 

Whole green, ripe, or stuflFed, rings, ribbons, or small ones 
cut in points. 

Onions 

Cut in slices, rings, strips, or small ones cut in points, 



Digitized by 



Google 



no COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Radishes 

Cut into flower shapes; select those of uniform shape, 
either small and round, or long and tapering; root end cut 
ofiF and about an inch of green stems left on for color con- 
trast. 

Shrimp 

Large, wet pack shrimp; or the shrimp may be soaked in 
a liquor made by cooking an onion, bay leaf, thyme, three 
cloves, six allspice, and six peppercorns, one tablespoon 
vinegar, and about a pint of water. The condiments are 
first stewed in the water for about an hour, then the liquor 
is filtered, and the shrimp soaked in it for a few hours. 
The shrimp are dried and used to ornament other dishes, 
or they may be served on cracked ice. 

Parsley 

Chopped fine or coarse, sprays, sprays fried. 

Pimientas 

Canned or raw pimienta cut into strips, circles, or fancy 
shapes, green or red, or a mixture of both colors. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 111 

APPETIZERS 

Lobster Cocktail 

One can lobster (8 ounces), tomato ketchup, sherry, lemon 
juice. 

Cut the lobster into small pieces, mix with the ketchup, 
sherry, lemon juice, and salt to flavor. Serve in cocktail 
glasses. 

Crab Cocktail 

Substitute crab for lobster, prepare like lobster cocktail. 

Oriental Canapes 

One can lobster or crab, one ounce butter, curry powder, 
lemon juice. 

Pass the lobster or crab meat through a food chopper, 
and mix with the butter. Season with salt, pepper, mus- 
tard, cayenne, nutmeg, and curry powder, and moisten 
with lemon juice. Cut small rounds of toasted bread, 
scoop out some of the center, fill with the mixture and cover 
with curry sauce. Sprinkle with fine bread crumbs and 
let bake in the oven for a few minutes. Serve hot. 

Curry Sauce 

Two ounces butter, two tablespoons flour, one tablespoon 
curry (scant), one teaspoon onion juice, one-half pint of milk, 
one hard boiled egg. 

Blend the butter, flour, curry, and onion juice. Let cook 
a few minutes, but do not brown. Stir the milk in grad- 
ually, season with salt and pepper, and before serving add 
the eggs chopped fine. 

India Canap^ 

Bread, one can ham (4 ounces), one ounce chutney, two 
ounces Parmesan cheese, parsley. 

Cut the bread into thin circles and toast in butter. 
Spread with the ham and chutney, and sprinkle with the 
grated cheese. Set in the oven a few minutes. Serve hot 
garnished with parsley. 



Digitized by 



Google 



m COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Spanish Canap^ 

Bread, one can tuna (8 ounces), three sweet pickles, two 
tablespoons chutney, two tablespoons Hollandaise sauce, three 
tablespoons Parmesan cheese. 

Cut the bread into thin circles, toast in butter. Mix the 
fish (drained from oil) with the minced pickles, and the 
chutney, and moisten with the sauce. Spread on the toast, 
sprinkle with the grated cheese and bake for 5 minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Asparagus Canap^ 

One can asparagus (No. 2), bread, mayonnaise. 
Drain the stalks in a towel, serve on the bread cut into 
diamonds and toasted, and the mayonnaise poured over. 

Ham Canapes 

Bread cut in circles and fried, one small can deviled ham 
(4 ounces), cream, cheese. 

Prepare the bread, and spread with a paste made of the 
ham with cream to moisten. Sprinkle with grated cheese. 

Caviare Canap^ 

One can caviare, bread, watercress, butter. 

Cut the bread into disks, saute in butter. Spread with 
a mixture of equal amounts of butter and minced water 
cress, with a thick layer of caviare on top. 
Shrimp Canapes 

One can shrimp (No. 1), bread cut in squares and fried, 
parsley, butter. 

Grind part of the shrimps until a smooth mass and mix 
with butter until smooth. Spread on the bread. Place 
whole shrimp on top, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

Small Rolls with Ham 

Small rolls, one can potted ham, two hard boiled eggs, 
lettuce, three radishes, one ounce butter. 

Mix the ham, butter, minced eggs, thinly sliced radishes, 
and finely cut white lettuce leaves. Cut the rolls, almost 
through, in two lengthwise, and remove most of the soft 
part. Spread the insides with the mixture and close. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 113 

Small Rolls with Mayonnaise 

Six small rolls, mayonnaise, two tablespoons finely chopped 
celery, two tablespoons chopped olives, two tablespoons 
chopped smoked tongue. 

Cut the rolls in two lengthwise, keeping together, re- 
move soft part, and fill with a stiff mayonnaise to which has 
been added the celery, olives, and tongue. Close each roll. 

Tongue Canap6s 

One can tongue (4 ounces), one teaspoon made mustard, 
one-half ounce of butter, one hard boiled egg yolk, two tea- 
spoons lemon juice, paprika, nutmeg, bread. 

Put the tongue through a meat chopper, mix with 
mustard, butter, egg yolk, lemon juice, and flavor with salt, 
paprika, and nutmeg. Fry rounds of bread, place the 
mixture on them, and garnish with water cress. This 
mixture may be used in sandwiches. 

Oyster Canap^ 

One can oysters (No. 1), one teaspoon bread crumbs, one 
ounce butter, one-eighth pint cream, bread roll. 

Chop the oysters fine, mix with them the bread crumbs 
and cream. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer for 
a few minutes. Cut the bread into circles, toast, and 
butter them. Pour the mixture over and serve hot. 

Oysters on Toast 

One can oysters (No. 2), one saltspoon salt, pepper, one egg 
yolk, three tablespoons cream, two teaspoons sherry. 

Drain the oysters, then heat in a buttered pan, sprinkle 
them with the salt and pepper. Next add the beaten 
egg yolk in the cream. When heated well, but not boiled, 
add the sherry, and serve on toast. 

Savory Butter for Canapes 

One-quarter pound butter, two dozen olives. 

Cream the butter, then add the olives which have been 
passed through a meat chopper, after being stoned, season 
with paprika, and rub together until smooth. Either 
green or ripe olives may be used. 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Olive Cream for Sandwiches 

One-quarter pint cream, two dozen olives, one-quarter tear 
spoon salt. 

Beat the cream until stiff, and add the olives after 
stoning and running through the meat chopper, then add 
the salt, and rub to a paste. Spread between buttered 
slices of white bread. 

These may be varied by using green oUves with half 
the cream, and ripe oUves with the other half. Use four 
sUces of bread, two of which have been Ughtly buttered on 
both sides, the other two sHces buttered on one side only. 
Put layers of the green and ripe olive mixtures between 
the sUces so that there will be two layers of ripe to one layer 
of green or the reverse. Cut in strips and arrange on a 
doily. 

Plain Canap6s 

Potted fish or meat, brown bread. 

Cut the bread very thin, remove crust, toast, and butter 
lightly. Spread with the potted fish and cut into strips. 

Mayonnaise Piquante Sandwiches 

One-quarter pint mayonnaise, two dozen ripe olives. 

After stoning, pass the olives through a meat chopper, 
mix with the mayonnaise, and spread between thin slices 
of bread hghtly buttered. 

Chicken and Mushroom Sandwiches 

One can chicken, mushrooms, bread. 

Pass the chicken and mushrooms through a meat chopper, 
then moisten with some tomato cocktail sauce or tomato 
ketchup. Spread the mixture on thin slices of white 
bread which have been buttered. If the regular sandwich 
loaf has been used, the sandwich may be cut lengthwise 
to form two narrow strips, or diagonally to form triangles. 
The number of sandwiches desired will determine the size 
of the can of chicken. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 115 

Russian Canap6s 

One can smoked sardines, two ounces butter, four teaspoons 
cream, ripe olives. 

Heat the butter until hot, mix with the sardines, which 
have been passed through a chopper. Then add the cream, 
mix well, and spread on toast cut in fancy shapes. Garnish 
with olives. 

Ham and Mayonnaise Sandwiches 

One can ham, mayonnaise, mustard butter, bread. 

Pass ham through meat chopper, moisten with mayon- 
naise, and spread on thin slices of bread which have been 
buttered with mustard butter. The mustard butter is 
prepared by creaming butter, then flavoring with cayenne 
pepper, mustard, and salt. The amount of the flavoring 
must be determined by one's taste. 

Salmon and Tartar Sauce Sandwiches 

One can salmon, tartar sauce, white bread. 

Drain the salmon from the oil, shred, then mix with 
tartar sauce. To prepare the tartar sauce, take the de- 
sired amount of mayonnaise, and add to it minced gherkins, 
chives, capers, and parsley. Spread the mixture on but- 
tered slices of white bread. 

Tuna, Celery and Mayonnaise Sandwiches 

One can tuna, celery, mayonnaise, rolled-wheat bread. 

Drain the tuna, shred, mix with one-third its volume of 
celery cubes, and moisten with mayonnaise. Use very 
thin slices of rolled-wheat bread, spread with plain or 
mustard butter. 

Baked beans and Sweet Relish Sandwiches 

One can baked beans, sweet relish, pumpernickel. 

Make a paste of the beans, season with salt and pepper, 
then add about an equal volume of sweet relish. Use with 
buttered slices of whole-wheat bread or pumpernickel. 



Digitized by 



Google 



116 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Pimienta and Onion Sandwiches 

One can pimienta, white pickled onions, olive oil, white 
bread. 

Drain the pimientas, either green or red, mash to a paste, 
Then mix with slices of the small white pickled onions. 
Moisten with olive oil and season with salt. Spread on 
buttered slices of white bread. 

Figs and Cream Cheese Sandwiches 

One can figs, cream cheese, brown bread. 

Drain the sweet canned figs, run through meat chopper, 
and add sufficient vinegar to be perceptible. Spread thin 
slices of brown bread with cream cheese, then with the figs. 

Beef and Horseradish Sandwiches 

One can beef, horseradish, mustard butter, bread. 

Spread slices of bread with mustard butter, between use 
thin slices of meat, sprinkled lightly with prepared horse- 
radish. 

Chicken and Bacon Sandwiches 

One can chicken, one glass bacon, lettuce, bread. 

Toast slices of bread, allow to cool, then butter. Be- 
tween two slices place a thin slice of chicken, then a heart 
leaf of lettuce, then thin slices of crisped bacon. Press the 
sandwiches lightly. 

Sardine Sandwiches 

1 can sardines, pickled onions, mayonnaise. 

Drain the fish, remove skin and bones, shred into small 
pieces, and moisten with highly-seasoned mayonnaise. 
Spread on buttered slices of white bread, and place thin 
disks of the onions on top. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 117 

PASTES FOR APPETIZERS 

Pimienta Butter 

One green or red pimienta, two ounces butter, salt. 
Cream the butter, add salt, and pimienta passed through 
a chopper. 

Pimienta Cream 

One-quarter pint heavy cream, one egg white, two table- 
spoons pimienta pur^e. 

Beat the cream dry, also the egg, put together with the 
pimienta and salt. 

Cream Cheese 

One Philadelphia style cream cheese, two tablespoons cream 
one tablespoon sherry. 

Cream the cheese, add the stiffly-beaten cream, and the 
sherry. This may be given a more pronounced flavor by 
adding a small Neufchatel cheese, creamed. 

Shrimp Butter 

One can shrimp (No. 1), plain or prepared in an aromatic 
liquor, an equal weight of butter. 

The shrimp are run through a chopper to form a paste 
and creamed with the butter. 

A variety of butters may be made from shell-fish, plain 
or smoked fish, seasoned meat, various forms of cheese, 
and condiments, as, pimienta, horse-radish, etc., then 
worked to a paste, and creamed with butter. Or the 
creamed butter may have curry, onion, garlic, or celery 
seasoning added. They may be lightened with stiffly 
beaten cream, and moistened with sherry in som cases. 
Butters may be colored green, red, etc., and by means of a 
piping-bag made into fanciful designs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



118 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

SOUPS 

There is a variety of soups canned, these including some 
of the different types of the clear thin and the thick soups. 
Among the latter are the purees, having a vegetable base, 
the bisques, having a shell-fish base, the cream soups, and 
other special forms. In addition to the soups there are 
meat extracts which may be used in making soups. These 
are not so rich in flavor as the consommes as the latter 
have the additional flavor derived from the vegetables and 
seasoning used in their cooking and clarification. The 
meat extracts can be used to much greater advantage than 
as plain broths if vegetables be prepared and cooked 
with them. The vegetables may be of different kinds, 
and cooked directly in the broth or better still sauted in 
butter or drippings and then added. If bacon or ham 
dripping be used, it is an advantage. In the same manner 
the consommes may be used in many ways by changing 
the garnishing, the thickening, or combining them with a 
puree. 

The consommes may be used also as the basis for rich 
sauces, or for glazes for meat or poultry. For these pur- 
poses the consomme may be reduced, until a spoon dipped 
in it is coated as if varnished, and in this condition it can 
be kept for a considerable time. A canned tongue or 
other canned meat which is to be sliced, if removed from 
the can, then brushed with the glaze, and placed in the 
oven until the glaze is formed, is much sightlier when 
placed on the table with a proper garnish than without the 
glaze. It also makes it possible to make well flavored 
sauces in a short time without the preliminary work of 
making stock. 

The clear soups may have many changes made in serving 
them by adding freshly cooked vegetables cut into disks, 
stars, or rods, or sago, arrowroot, rice, and the various 
forms of macaroni. The sago and arrowroot may be 
cooked in the soup, but the rice and macaroni should be 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 119 

cooked separately, in order to retain the clearness. For 
the purees, creams, or special thick soups, cream or milk 
may be added, but it should be boiled first, as the flavor 
is better, and the risk of curdling reduced. A substitute 
for cream that may be used and that will impart a similar 
smooth effect, is milk cooked, removed from the fire, and 
when it has cooled somewhat, added gradually to a beaten 
egg yolk. This should be poured through a strainer into 
the soup. If one has made soup that is too weak, it may 
be corrected by adding to it meat extract until the desired 
strength is attained. Additional flavor may be imparted 
to an inferior soup by the addition of some of the prepared 
meat sauces. The sauces are concentrated and rich in 
flavor. 

Some persons have an impression that inferior meats 
may be used in soups, but the absurdity of this is apparent, 
when it is considered how soups are made and the enormous 
amount of material required in their manufacture. In the 
first place the chef selects meat that is older than that for 
roasts, etc., because the flavors are better developed. 
The bones are separated and cooked for a longer time in 
order to obtain all the gelatinous matter possible; after 
these have cooked for a certain number of hours, the stock 
from these is used instead of water with the meat. The 
meat is not cooked as long as are the bones, for the flavor 
of the finished product would be impaired. The chef has 
to produce distinct flavors that must be repeated in each 
batch, and he knows well that indifferent original material 
will result in indifferent stock, and aside from the materials 
used, every stage of the process must be carefully done. 
On account of the superior skill required in this branch of 
canning, the number engaged in the work is comparatively 
small, and the work is done usually on a large scale. 

In the following recipes, and also those in other sections, 
evaporated milk may be used instead of the fresh milk 
designated, and in most cases to better advantage. The 
evaporated milk is cleaner and prepared under more 
sanitary conditions than the average fresh milk delivered 



Digitized by 



Google 



1«0 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

in towns. For the recipes in which plain cream is required, 
the milk may be used without dilution, but in those 
requiring milk it should be diluted one-half. 

Clam Chowder * 

One can clams (No. 1), one can soup stock (No. 1), one 
onion, four slices salt pork, one ounce butter, two tablespoons 
flour, one-half pint cream, two potatoes. 

Fry the onion and the diced iK>rk in the butter, add the 
flour, and when cooked, the juice from the clams, the soup 
stock, the cream, a bit of mace, if the flavor be liked, and 
the potatoes diced. The potatoes require about 10 minutes 
to cook. At the last, add the clams chopped, and when 
ready to serve, some hard crackers. 
Cream of Kornlet 

One can kornlet, one can bouillon (No. 2), two ounces butter, 
one-half pint cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, croutons. 

Heat the kornlet in the bouillon (chicken broth may be 
used), add the butter, and cream to the hot kornlet, strain 
through sieve, season, and serve with the crontous. 
Hungarian Goulash 

One can S3up stock (Nd. 2), tomato pur6e (No. 1), one-half 
pound lean beef, six large onions, 4 ounces butter, four table- 
spoons flour or two tablespoons corn starch, one-half teaspoon 
paprika, one teaspoon caraway, one-half teaspoon marjoram, 
one-quarter teaspoon thyme, one clove of garlic. 

Mince the onions, fry to a light brown in the butter, 
add the beef cut into small dice, then the paprika, and the 
flour. Stir well while cooking. Add the soup stock and 
tomato puree, and simmer for 15 minutes. Then add the 
spices which have been ground fine, and the garlic, crushed. 
Simmer for an hour. 
Artichoke Puree 

One can chicken broth (No. 2), one pint cream sauce, three 
ounces butter, artichoke leaves, one-half pint cream, salt, 
pepper. 

To the chicken broth add the artichoke leaves crushed, 
and the cream sauce, cook half an hour if the raw leaves 
are used, a less time if the canned are used. Strain through 
sieve, heat, and add the butter, cream, and seasoning. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 121 

Clam Broth 

One can clam broth, celery, parsley, cream. 

The broth should be heated with a couple of celery 
stalks and some sprigs of parsley for about 10 minutes, 
then the bouquet is removed, and the broth seasoned with 
cayenne. A spoonful of whipped cream is added to each 
cup. 

Consomme, Garnished with Leftover Vegetables 

One can consomme (No. 2), two tablespoons tapioca, two 
tablespoons asparagus, one tablespoon peas, one tablespoon 
string beans. 

Cook the tapioca in the consomme for about 15 minutes. 
When ready to serve, add the peas, the beans cut into 
disks, and the butt ends of the asparagus, also cut into thin 
disks. If it be desired to have all green, the green asparagus 
may be used. 

Carrot Soup 

One can bouillon (No. 2), one can carrots (No. 1), four 
tablespoons tapioca, one ounce butter, seasoning. 

Cook the tapioca in the bouillon. Heat the carrots, 
force through ricer, add the butter and seasoning, and add 
to the bouillon just before serving. 

Cream of Tomato 

One shinbone, one can tomatoes (No. 2}^), one tablespoon 
corn starch, four ounces butter, one-half pint cream, salt, soup 
bouquet. 

Soup bouquet — one sprig parsley, one stalk celery,. one 
small sprig of thyme, one bay leaf. 

Cover the shinbone with cold water, salt well, and add a 
generous soup bouquet. Simmer slowly until the meat 
drops from the bone then strain through cheese cloth. 
Cool, remove the fat, then add the tomatoes, simmer for 
half an hour, strain, then put over the flame to thicken 
with the cornstarch. When ready to serve, add the butter 
and cream. Toasted rolls may be served with this soup 
for a luncheon dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



122 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Sweet Potato Pur^ 

One can chicken broth (No. 1), one-half can sweet potatoes 
(No. S)» one quart milk, one-half pint cream. 

Heat the potatoes, mash fine, add to the hot milk and 
broth. When ready to serve, strain, and add the cream. 

Quickly Prepared Soup 

One teaspoon meat extract (semi-solid), one-half package 
gelatin, two branches parsley, one onion, three cloves, celery 
seed. 

Put the onion sliced, the parsley, cloves, and a few celery 
seed in about a quart of water to boil for about 15 minutes, 
add the gelatin, and when dissolved, strain, pressing 
slightly. To the liquid add the meat extract, salt and 
pepper, and reheat. This may be varied by using more 
meat extract, or by thickening slightly with arrowroot, or 
by adding cooked rice, barley, etc. 

Consomme with Carrots 

One can consomme (No. 2), two tablespoons of carrots, ten 
quenelles chicken forcemeat. 

The carrots are cut into disks, fried in butter, then added 
to the hot consomme with the quenelles, the cooking of 
the quenelles being done in the soup. (See recipe for 
quenelles.) 

Pur^ of Beans 

One pound green beans or one can (No. 2), one can white 
consomme (No. 2), one ounce butter, two medium-sized 
potatoes. 

Parboil the beans for 5 minutes, then drain. Melt the 
butter in a stew-pan, add the beans and stew for 10 minutes, 
add the consomme, and the potatoes minced. Simmer 
slowly until the vegetables are tender, force through sieve, 
bring to the consistency desired with scalded milk, and 
add a small bit of butter just before serving. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 123 

Puree of Green Peas 

One can peas (No. 2), one can bouillon (No. 2), two ounces 
butter. 

Heat the peas, drain, mash, mix with the consomme and 
strain. Reheat adding the butter. A few of the peas may 
be reserved for a garnish. 

Pur6e of Tomatoes 

One can tomatoes (No. 2}/$), one can bouillon (No. 2), one 
ounce bacon, one small carrot, one small onion, bay leaf, thyme, 
two ounces rice, three ounces butter. 

Mince the bacon, carrot, onion, and a piece of bay leaf 
and thyme, and saute in an ounce of butter, then add the 
tomatoes, rice, and half a teaspoon of sugar, and the 
bouillon, and simmer imtil the rice is soft. Force through 
a sieve, reheat, and add the rest of the butter when ready 
to serve. 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

SOUP ACCESSORIES 

Pulled Bread 

Remove the crust from freshly baked bread, and with a 
fork pull the the crumb into irregular pieces. Place on 
paper in a pan and dry in the oven with the door open, then 
close the door and brown. 

Crisped Bread 

Cut stale bread which has had the crust removed into 
very thin slices. Dry on paper with the oven open. 
When dry, close the door and brown. 

Crisped Crackers 

Toast crackers in the oven until crisp; or they may have 
a bit of butter placed in the center, and then heated. 

Bread Sticks 

Four ounces condensed milk, four ounces butter, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one-half compressed yeast cake, one egg, one 
quart sifted flour. 

Add one cup hot water to milk, then the butter and salt, 
and when lukewarm the yeast, the egg well beaten, and the 
flour. Mix well,, let rise, shape, let rise again. Start the 
baking in a very hot oven, then reduce the heat, so that 
the sticks will be dry and crisp. To form the sticks, 
shape pieces of dough into small biscuits, then with the 
hands roll on unfloured board until the pieces are about 8 
inches in length. Keep the pieces of uniform size and with 
blunt ends. 

Cheese Straws 

Three ounces grated cheese, two tablespoons flour, two 
ounces butter, one egg yolk, salt, pepper, cream to moisten. 

Mix the dry ingredients well, then add the egg yolk and 
the cream. Roll out very thin, cut into rings and then 
strips. Bake until crisp and yellow. Place the strips in 
the rings and pile on a plate. They may be served hot or 
cold. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 125 

Noodles 

Add one teaspoon salt to an egg, beat slightly, then add 
sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. Knead and roll to 
wafer thinness. Cover on board with a towel, and let 
stand for one-half hour, then cut into fancy shapes with a 
small vegetable cutter. Dry and when required, cook in 
boiling water for 15 minutes. 

Noodle BaUs 

Make a paste as for noodles. When rolled thin, fold the 
paste double, and cut tiny circles with a cutter, and fry 
brown in hot fat. Drain on paper. They should not be 
put in the soup as they soften too quickly. 

Note. — ^The recipe for noodles is given, but the package 
noodles are much more convenient. If noodles are to be 
cooked in the soup, they should be parboiled for a few 
minutes to remove any particles of flour, etc., on the out- 
side, then drained and cooled, before being added to the 
soup. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread one-half inch thick, and remove the 
crust. Spread with butter, then cut into squares. The 
squares may be baked in the oven, fried in deep fat, or 
sauted in butter. They should be put in soup at the time 
of serving. 

Egg Balls 

Five eggs, one teaspoon salt, pepper, cayenne, parsley. 

Boil four of the eggs hard, then mash the yolks to a 
paste and add the salt, pepper, parsley, cayenne, and the 
well beaten raw egg. Shape into tiny balls. Roll in 
flour, fry in deep fat, or they may be sauted in butter, or 
poached in salted water. 

Bread Crusts 

Cut small rounds from the crusts of French rolls and dry 
in the oven. Serve hot in the soup. 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Cheese Sticks 

Cut stale bread into one-half inch slices, remove the 
crust, and cut into strips. On these spread a mixture 
made in the following proportions — 2 ounces of grated 
cheese, 2 ounces of butter, and a dash of paprika, the 
whole creamed until smooth. Set the strips in the oven 
to melt the cheese, or they may be left until brown. 

Chicken Forcemeat Balls 

Two chickens* breasts, one-half tablespoon salt, one-eighth 
teaspoon pepper, two ounces butter, four ounces stale bread 
crumbs, one-half pint cream, one-half blade mace, three egg 
whites. 

Chop the chicken very fine, and add to it the salt and 
pepper. Cook the crumbs, cream, and mace until a 
smooth paste is obtained, remove from the fire and add 
the butter, the seasoned meat, and the eggs well beaten. 
Stir until thoroughly blended. When cold, form into very 
small balls, dip in egg, then in crumbs. They may be 
browned in the oven, sauted, fried, or poached. 

Chicken Forcemeat 

One pound chicken, two egg whites, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
one pint double cream. 

Cut the chicken into small pieces, pound in a mortar 
until reduced to a paste, or rim through food chopper, 
using the fine cutter, add the slightly beaten egg-whites, 
and seasoning. Force through a ricer, and add the cream 
which should be ice-cold, gradually. 

Other meats may be substituted for the chicken, in the 
above recipes. 

Egg Dumplings 

One-half pint milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon baking 
powder, salt, flour. 

To the eggs well beaten, add the milk, then the flour to 
which has been added the salt, and baking powder. Make 
into a stiff batter, and drop by spoonfuls into the boiling 
soup. Keep covered for 10 minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 127 

MushrcMMii Forcemeat 

One can mushrooms (No. 1), four ounces fine bread crumbs, 
two egg yolks, one teaspoon butter, salt, pepper, mace, nutmeg. 

Drain the mushrooms, mince, add the other ingredients, 
the egg last to bind. Moisten with the mushroom liquor. 
Either pound well or force through a ricer or food chopper, 
so as to make smoother. They may be poached for soup, 
or fried for meat garnish. 

Cheese Balls 

One-quarter pint milk, one-half cup flour, one egg, one ounce 
butter, one ounce cheese, salt, cayenne. 

Mix all the ingredients except the egg in a double boiler, 
and cook until smooth, then add the well beaten egg. 
Place in a shallow pan to cool, cut into disks or triangles, 
cook for about 5 minutes in the boiling soup before serving. 

Quenelles 

One can chicken minced (8 ounces), one teaspoon parsley, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, egg, crumbs. 

Mix the chicken and seasoning thoroughly, form into 
small balls dip in egg, roll in fine crumbs, fry in hot fat, 
and add to the soup when ready to serve. 

Dumplings 

One cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder, salt. 

Add the salt and baking powder to the flour, sift twice, 
then add water to make a stiff batter. Drop by spoonfuls 
into the boiling soup and keep covered for 10 minutes. 

German Paste 

One pint flour, three eggs, one ounce butter, salt. 

Sift the flour twice, then add the well beaten eggs, salt, 
butter, and water to make a stiff paste. Mix thoroughly, 
then roll out, cut into strips one-half by 2 inches, let stand 
for an hour to dry, then turn and dry the under side. 
Poach in boiling salted water for about 10 minutes, place 
in a current of warm air to dry. Serve with clear soup. 



Digitized by 



Google 



128 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Fried Gravy Crusts 

Toast crusts brown, then put in a pan and pour some 
stock over them, simmer until the stock is dried and the 
crusts crisp. The crusts are placed in a tureen and the soup 
poured over them. The crusts enrich a weak soup. 

Vegetable Cream 

One can of vegetable (No. 1), two eggs, one can stock 
(No. 1), nutmeg. 

Heat the vegetables, pass through sieve, and add the 
eggs well beaten, a pinch of nutmeg, and the stock. Mix 
thoroughly, then place in a mold, and the mold in a pan 
of water to cool. When cold, remove from the mold and 
cut into dice. The dice may be added to the soup. The 
color of the cream may be varied by the use of different 
vegetables, white or green asparagus, the inner, or outer 
parts of carrots, etc. 

Cheese Crackers 

Spread crackers with partly melted butter, sprinkle 
with paprika, and place a small mound of grated cheese in 
the center. Heat in the oven until the cheese is melted. 

Egg Threads 

Egg threads are made by beating the desired number 
of eggs, seasoning with salt and pepper, and pouring through 
a strainer into the boiling soup. The eggs pass more 
freely into the soup if they are strained twice before adding 
to the soup. 
Thickening, etc. 

The thin soups may be thickened with arrowroot or sago 
starches by dissolving the starch in a small quantity of the 
cold soup to avoid lumps, mixing with the soup and heating. 
To thicken with egg, beat the yolks light, add some cold 
soup, then mix with the soup to heat, but not to boil, as 
the eggs may separate. The whipped whites may be 
served on top. Cooked rice or tapicoa may be added, or 
vegetables as peas, beans, etc., or the larger forms may be 
diced or cut into desirable pieces. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 129 

ENTREES 

Chicken Terrapin 

One can chicken (No. 1), two hard boiled eggs, one-half pint 
cream, one-half pint milk, jone-half pint sherry, two ounces 
butter, one tablespoon flour, salt, cayenne, mace. 

Make a sauce by melting the butter, add flour, stirring 
constantly, then the milk gradually, keeping the sauce 
smooth, then the cream, seasoning, and chopped eggs, 
add the chicken, cut in large dice, simmer for 10 minutes. 
When ready to serve, add the wine. 

Chicken and Oysters 

One can chicken (No. 1), one can oysters (No. 2), two ounces 
butter, one tablespoon flour, two hard boiled eggs, one table- 
spoon parsley, one pint milk. 

Heat the chicken, cut into neat slices. Heat the milk 
in a double boiler, add to it the butter and flour rubbed 
together, the chopped eggs, and seasoning. Drain the 
oysters, and add them to the sauce. When hot, pour over 
the chicken. This may be served in a mound of rice. 

Creamed Chicken 

One can chicken (8 ounces), two ounces butter, four minced 
olives, one wineglass sherry, two egg yolks, one-half pint 
cream. 

Cut the chicken into neat slices or dice, and heat in the 
butter, season with salt and pepper, add the olives and 
wine, cook a few minutes, then add the eggs beaten in the 
cream. Stir and serve as soon as it thickens. This may 
be served on toast or in patty cases. 

Salmi of Duck 

One can duck (8 ounces), one-half can mushrooms (No. 1), 
one cup brown sauce, one tablespoon ketchup, one-half tea- 
spoon onion juice, one-half teaspoon lemon juice. 

Heat the duck, cut into regular pieces, and the mush- 
rooms in the sauce. Add the seasoning and salt and pepper 
to taste. 



Digitized by 



Google 



ISO COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Chicken Croquettes 

One can chicken (No. 1), one ounce butter, one tablespoon 
flour (scant), one-half pint milk, one-half teaspoon onion juice, 
one egg, two teaspoons lemon juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
beaten egg, bread crumbs. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, then add 
the seasoning and the chicken, which has been passed 
through the meat chopper. When heated thoroughly, 
remove from the fire and add the well beaten egg. When 
cool, shape in cylinders, dip in beaten egg, then roll in 
bread crumbs. Fry brown in hot fat, drain on soft paper. 

Meat Croiiuettes 

Turkey, veal, lamb, mutton, or beef may be substituted 
for the chicken. 

Creamed Chicken and MushrcMims 

One can chicken (No. 1), one can mushrooms (No. 1), one 
cup white sauce. 

Make white sauce with half cream and half liquor from 
mushrooms. Cut the chicken into dice, and the mush- 
rooms, if large, into quarters. Heat in the sauce, and serve 
in patty cases. 

The mushrooms may be omitted, and the sauce made 
with half milk and half cream, or with evaiK>rated milk. 
Flavor with nutmeg. Any of the canned meats may be 
substituted for the chicken. 

Beef Pilau 

One can beef (8 ounces), one can tomatoes (No. 2), one table- 
spoon butter, one-half cup rice, one onion. 

Lightly brown the chopped onion in the butter, then add 
the sliced beef, seasoned with salt and pepper. Cook 
slowly for 10 minutes. Put rice in cold water, boil for 5 
minutes, then drain and turn cold water over it to separate 
the grains. Add the rice to the meat and pour over them 
the tomato and a cup of boiling water. Cook slowly until 
the rice is soft. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 131 

Beef Fricassee 

One can beef (8 ounces), one pint of stock, one ounce butter, 
one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon onion juice. 

Make a brown sauce of the butter, flour, and stock (the 
extract of beef may be used mstead of stock. The propor- 
tions to use are given on the package). Season with salt, 
pepper, and onion juice. Add the beef cut in thin slices, 
and simmer for a few minutes. Serve with a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Creamed Corned Beef 

One can corned beef (8 ounces), one oUnce butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one teaspoon onion juice, celery salt, one-half pint 
milk. 

Make a white sauce and season with celery salt, pepper, 
and onion juice. Add to the hot sauce the diced meat. 
This may be put in a casserole, covered with buttered 
bread crumbs, and browned in the oven. 

Meat Pie 

One can beef (8 ounces), two cups mashed potatoes, one- 
half teaspoon onion juice, one teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Butter a shallow dish, line with the mashed potatoes 
about an inch thick, fill with the beef cut into slender inch 
lengths, season with salt, pepper, and onion juice, and 
moisten with gravy. Cover with the mashed potatoes. 
Bake until the top is a light brown. 

Creamed Salmon in Rice 

One can salmon (No. 1), two tablespoons flour, two ounces 
butter, one tablespoon finely chopped onion, two tablespoons 
finely chopped olives, one-half pint cream, salt, paprika, three 
egg yolks. 

Cook the onion until yellow in the butter, then add the 
flour and cream, previously blended, and cook for five 
minutes. Season and add the egg yolks, olives, and the 
salmon flaked. Line a mold with rice, fill with the creamed 
salmon, cover the top with rice, and steam a half hour. 
Serve with Beamaise tomato sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Stuffed Potatoes 

One can roast beef (8 ounces), one can tomato pur^e (No. 1), 
one egg, three olives, baked potatoes, one ounce butter, salt, 
pepper. 

Put the butter, chopped beef, and tomato in a spider, 
cook until thick, add the beaten egg, chopped olives, and 
seasoning. Scoop out the potatoes and add to the meat, 
then stuff the shells with the mixture. Serve very hot. 

Meat Rissoles 

Can meat, stock or gravy, pie crust, one egg. 

Mince the meat, season with salt and pepper or paprika, 
moisten with stock or gravy. Roll pie crust very thin, cut 
in roimds. Put a spoonful of the mixture on each round, 
wet the edges, and press them lightly together. Brush the 
outside with slightly beaten egg white, and fry until brown. 
Drain on soft paper, and serve hot. 

Lamb and Peas 

One can lamb (8 ounces), one can peas (No. 2), two cooked 
potatoes, one onion, stock, one cup buttered crumbs. 

Dice the lamb and potatoes, mix with the chopped onion, 
season with salt and pepper, and lastly mix in one-half of 
the peas. Make a mound in a baking dish, cover with the 
crumbs, and bake until brown. When ready to serve, pour 
around the remainder of the peas, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, and heated. 

Meat Rolls 

One can beef (1 pound), one onion, seasoning, cabbage leaves. 

Make a soft hash of the meat, onion, and seasoning. 
Spread the mixture on small, firm cabbage leaves, roll them 
up and tie with string. Place close together in a shallow 
pan, cover with soup stock or water and butter, and cook 
for about half an hour. Thicken the liquor and use as a 
sauce, garnishing with peas or string beans. 

Other meats may be used, instead of beef, but if chicken 
be used, omit the onion. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 133 

Lamb Croquettes 

One can lamb (8 ounces), one cup cooked rice, one-half pint 
white sauce, one tablespoon lemon juice, one tablespoon parsley. 

Pass the lamb through a meat chopper, mix with the rice, 
chopped parsley, lemon juice, and the hot white sauce. 
Season with salt and pepper. When cool, form into cone 
shape, roll in flour, egg, and very fine crumbs, and fry. 
Garnish with sprigs of mint or parsley. 

Crabs in Ramekins 

One can crab meat (No. 1), one can mushrooms (No. 1), 
cream sauce, mushroom ketchup. 

Cut the crab meat and mushrooms into uniform pieces, 
and add to them a rich cream sauce. Season with mush- 
room ketchup, and serve in ramekins. 

Fish Roe Croquettes 

One can fish roe (8 ounces), two egg yolks, one cup cream 
sauce, one tablespoon parsley, salt, pepper, one teaspoon 
lemon juice. 

Separate the roe into small pieces, and add the egg yolks, 
seasoning, and sauce, and mix thoroughly. Shape into 
cylinders or pyramids, brush with white of egg, then crumb 
and fry. 

Italian Chicken 

One can chicken (1 pound), one tablespoon olive oil, one tea- 
spoon vinegar or lemon juice, one small can bouillon, one-half 
teaspoon onion juice, salt, pepper, parsley, fritter batter. 

Cut the chicken into inch pieces, and marinate in the oil, 
vinegar, onion juice, pepper, and salt for one-half hour. 
Sprinkle with the chopped parsley, dip in the batter, and 
fry in lard. Serve with an Italian sauce, made by chopping 
fine one tablespoon parsley, one small onion, one-half can 
mushrooms, one glass of white wine, one-half teaspoon of 
kitchen bouquet. Cook until reduced, then add salt, 
pepper, one tablespoon olive oil, and one cup of bouillon. 
Simmer, then thicken with one ounce butter, rubbed with 
one tablespoon of flour. 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Grilled Sardines (Large) 

One can sardines (1 pound), one can mushrooms (pieces. 
No. 1), parsley, butter, pepper, salt. 

Scrape the fish free from skin and wipe dry. Roll each 
fish in melted butter, season with cayenne pepper and salt. 
Cover with finely chopped parsley and chopped mushrooms. 
Wrap each* fish in oiled paper and heat in the oven. Serve 
on rectangular strips of toast, slightly larger than the fish. 

Deviled Sardines 

One can sardines in mustard (1 pound), Worcestershire 
sauce, anchovy sauce, butter. 

Roll each fish in a mixture of Worcestershire sauce, 
anchovy sauce, and melted butter. If the mustard sardines 
are not used, add mustard to the sauce. Lay each fish on 
a slice of toast, place in a hot oven for about five minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Salmon Balls 

One can salmon (8 ounces), one cup mashed potatoes, two 
eggs, oil, pepper, salt, breadcrumbs. 

Drain the salmon, shred, add the potatoes, one egg and 
seasoning, and moisten with oil. Form into balls, coat with 
egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat until brown, and drain 
on paper. Serve hot and garnish with lemon points and 
slices of cucumber. 

Spiced Tongue 

One can tongue (1 pound), one teaspoon ground allspice, one- 
half teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon pepper, one onion, one- 
quarter pint vinegar, one-half cup raisins, one ounce butter. 

Mix the allspice, ginger, and pepper and rub over the 
tongue, then roll in flour. Fry the onion, sliced, in the butter, 
then fry the tongue. When brown take out the tongue, and 
make a sauce with the butter and onion in the pan, a table- 
spoon of flour, and a pint of water. Put the tongue back 
in the sauce, add the vinegar and raisins, and simmer until 
tender. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 136 

Sardine Loaf 

One can large sardines (1 pound), one egg, corn meal or 
cracker crumbs, two ounces melted butter. 

Cut the sardines into small pieces, and mix with them the 
butter, crumbs, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. When 
well mixed, turn into a mold, cover, and steam one hour. 
Slice for sandwiches, or serve cold as a luncheon dish. 

Fried Sardines 

One can sardines (1 pound), one egg, corn meal or cracker 
crumbs, olive oil. 

Dip the fish into beaten egg, roll in cornmeal or cracker 
crumbs, and fry in olive oil until brown and crisp. Serve 
on slices of hot toast and garnish with slices of lemon. 

Creamed Chicken and Peas 

One can chicken (8 ounces), one can peas (No. 2), one- 
half pint milk or cream, two ounces butter, two tablespoons 
flour, salt, pepper. 

Make a cream sauce, then add to it the chicken cut in 
dice and the peas freed from their liquor. Serve hot with 
toast triangles. 

Creamed Salmon 

One can salmon, one ounce butter, one tablespoon flour, 
salt, pepper, paprika, one teaspoon lemon juice, one-half pint 
milk. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, milk, and seasoning. 
Then add the salmon, cut into regular pieces, and heat,but 
not boil. Take out the salmon, place in a hot dish, add the 
lemon juice to the sauce, and pour hot over the salmon. 
Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Fish with Italian Sauce 

One can fish (No. 1), one can tomatoes (No. 2), one onion, 
one-quarter pint olive oil, one clove, one bay leaf, salt, pepper. 

Fry the sliced onion in the olive oil and when brown add 
the clove, bay leaf, tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Cook, 
then add the fish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Spanish Tongue 

■ One can tongue, one can red peppers, one can ripe olives, 
one teaspoon onion juice, two tablespoons vinegar. 

Cut the tongue into thin slices and pour over them the 
following sauce: Run the peppers through a chopper, add 
salt to taste, and the onion juice, then saute for five minutes 
When cold, add the vinegar and the ripe olives. 

Mexican Meat Balls 

One can meat (8 ounces), one can tomato pur^e (No. 1), one 
small onion chopped, one-half cup corn meal, two eggs, one can 
beef broth (No. 2). 

Mix the minced meat (beef, veal, or mutton) with the 
tomato, onion, commeal scalded, pepper, and salt. Bind 
with the eggs and form into balls the size of a walnut. Roll 
the balls in flour and boil in the beef broth for fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Serve with the broth thickened for a 
sauce. 

Deviled Meat 

One can meat (1 pound), two tablespoons dry mustard, three 
tablespoons flour, one teaspoon butter, two eggs, one teaspoon 
olive oil, one teaspoon vinegar, cayenne pepper. 

Make a batter of the mustard, flour, eggs, salt, pepper, 
oil, and vinegar. Cut the meat (any kind) into slices, soak 
in the batter, then fry in lard. Add the batter that is left 
to a cup of soup stock or water, add the butter, heat slowly 
to thicken, and serve as a gravy over the meat. 

Pilchers 

One can sardines (1 pound), bread, one can pimienta (No. 1), 
Parmesan cheese. 

Skin and bone the sardines and put on unglazed paper 
to drain. Cut strips of bread longer and wider than the 
sardines, and fry in olive oil until a light brown. Lay a 
sardine on each piece and heat in the oven. When ready 
to serve, sprinkle with the grated cheese, and garnish 
with strips of pimientas. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 137 

Lobster 

One can lobster, one small onion, two ounces butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one can tomato pulp (No. 1), two table- 
spoons sherry. 

Mince the onion and cook until yellow in the butter, then 
stir in the flour, and blend. Then pour in the pulp slowly, 
stirring constantly. Season with paprika and salt and 
when at the boiling point, add the lobster cut into small 
pieces. When at the boiling point again, add the sherry and 
serve. 

Salmon Timbales 

One can salmon (No. 1), one can stock (No. 1), one-half tea- 
spoon gelatin, beets, turnips, mashed potatoes. 

Drain the salmon and shred. Dissolve the gelatin in the 
stock, which has been reduced one-half, and when cool pour 
sufficient into timbale molds to cover the bottom. Set on 
ice to harden. Then ornament the bottom and sides with the 
beets and turnips cut into fancy shapes, and when firm put 
a spoonful of mashed potatoes in, then fill with the salmon 
after which pour over the remainder of the stock, and let 
it harden. When ready to serve, unmold by wrapping a 
hot cloth about each mold. Serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise. 

Polentas 

One can Hamburger steak (1 pound), one egg, one large 
onion, parsley, bread crumbs. 

Mix the meat, well beaten egg, minced onion, and parsley, 
and a few bread crumbs. Roll into balls and simmer for 
about an hour in the following sauce : 

One onion, two bay leaves, one can tomatoes (No. 2), or 
small can tomato pulp (No. 1), two green peppers, one tea- 
spoon butter. 

Cook the ingredients, except the butter, in half a pint 
of water, and when the onion is soft, pass through a colander 
and return to the fire. Then add the butter and the meat 
balls, and cook slowly. Serve the sauce with the balls, and 
garnish with watercress. 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Fish Ramekins 

One can fish (8 ounces), one tablespoon parsley, white 
sauce, salt, pepper. 

Drain the fish, shred, then add the minced parsley, salt, 
pepper, and enough white sauce to moisten. Fill into 
buttered ramekins, set in a pan of hot water, and bake for 
half an hour. 

Fish Roe Ramekins 

One can roe (8 ounces), one tablespoon dried bread crumbs, 
one ounce butter, one tablespoon minced parsley, one egg yolk, 
salt, pepper, cream. 

Mix the ingredients with enough cream or milk to 
moisten, then fill greased ramekins, set in pan of hot water 
in oven for about half an hour. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Ham and Sausage 

One small can ham (8 ounces), one can sausage (8 ounces), 
one can tomato pulp (No. 1), parsley, two onions, one rather 
small pepper, one cup rice. 

Cut the ham into dice and saute with the sausage, sliced 
onions and pepper, and the minced parsley. Then add 
the tomato pulp, a pint of water, and the rice, which has 
been soaked. Cover and cook slowly without stirring. 
Salt to taste and serve hot. 

Veal Terrapin 

One can veal (No. 2), six eggs, hard boiled and quartered, two 
ounces butter, one tablespoon onion chopped, one tablespoon 
flour, one tablespoon mushrooms chopped, one-half pint cream, 
one-half pint stock, one bay leaf, one clove, small piece stick 
cinnamon, one teaspoon lemon juice, two tablespoons wine. 

Fry the onion in the butter without browning, add the 
meat cut into dice, and cook until slightly browned; add 
the flour and stir until browned, then add the stock (or 
water), stiring until it thickens, after which add the bay 
leaf, clove, and cinnamon. Simmer for half an hour. 
Remove the seasonings, and add the eggs, cream, and mush- 
rooms, bring to the boiling point, then add the lemon juice. 
Take from the fire, add the wine, and serve at once. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 13Q 

Turkey- 
One can turkey (1 pound), one ounce butter, one tablespoon 
flour, two egg yolks, one-quarter pint white stock, one-quarter 
pint cream, salt, paprika, nutmeg, onion juice. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, stock, cream, and 
seasoning. Add the turkey cut into neat pieces, and cook 
about five minutes. When ready to serve, add the well 
beaten egg yolks. 

Italian Cakes 

One can chicken with veal mixture, one can artichoke hearts, 
olive oil, one egg, spaghetti, tomato sauce. 

Mince the meat and artichokes, add salt and pepper and 
the egg. Make into small cakes or cylinders, dip into plain 
batter, and fry in olive oil. Serve on a bed of spaghetti 
mixed with a tomato sauce. 

Shrimp Fricassee 

One can shrimp (No. 1), one can tomatoes (No. 2), one 
onion, one clove of garlic, one ounce butter, one tablespoon 
flour, one teaspoon salt, red pepper. 

Brown the butter and flour, then add the onion sliced, 
tomatoes, salt, a pinch of red pepper, garlic, a pint of hot 
water, then the shrimp. Cook slowly for about an hour. 

Oyster Rabbit 

One can oysters (No. 1), one ounce butter, one-half pound 
cheese, one saltspoon salt, cayenne, two eggs. 

Melt the butter, then add the cheese cut into small 
pieces. While the cheese is melting, beat the eggs lightly, 
add to them the oyster liquor, then the oysters. When 
hot, serve on squares of toast. 

Creole Lamb Hash 

One can lamb (1 pound), three medium-sized potatoes 
quartered, two green peppers, minced, seasoning. 

Chop the lamb and heat in a double boiler with stock 
or water to moisten. Fry the tomatoes and peppers and 
add to the lamb, seasoning well. Make a bed of rice on a 
dish and pile the hash on top. 



Digitized by 



Google 



140 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Chicken Ramekins 

One can chicken (8 ounces), one egg yolk, one tablespoon 
minced parsley, one ounce butter, one tablespoon bread crumbs, 
salt, pepper. 

Cut the chicken into small pieces and mix with it the 
other ingredients. If not sufficiently moist, add cream. 
Mix well. Put into greased ramekins, and set in a pan of 
hot water in the oven for about half an hour. 

Clam Croquettes 

One can clams (No. 1), three tablespoons flour, one teaspoon 
chopped parsley, one ounce butter, two egg yolks, salt, cayenne. 

Add milk to the clam juice so as to make half a pint. 
Heat the juice and thicken with the butter and flour, then 
add the eggs, cook a minute longer, then add the parsley, 
seasoning, and the clams chopped fine. Mix, then pour 
into a shallow pan to cool. When cold, form into balls, 
dip in eggs and crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

Chicken with Sauce 

One can chicken (1 pound), two ounces butter, one table- 
spoon cornstarch, two egg yolks, salt, pepper, one-half cup 
cooked carrot, one-half cup cooked peas, one teaspoon lemon 
juice, one-half tablespoon minced parsley, one-half pint cream. 

Cut the chicken into neat slices and arrange on a hot 
platter. Make a sauce of butter, cornstarch, and stock 
or water, and add to it the carrot, cut in fancy shapes, the 
peas, lemon juice, eggs, salt, and pepper. Pour aroimd the 
chicken, then sprinkle with the parsley. 

Cannelon of Reef 

One can beef (1 pound), one can ham (5 ounces), one 
egg, one and one-half teaspoons salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, 
thyme, savory, lemon rind. 

Chop the meat and add to it the egg well beaten, salt, 
pepper, pinch of thyme, savory, and the grated lemon rind. 
Make into a loaf, wrap in buttered paper, and bake about 
three-quarters of an hour. Make a brown gravy seasoned 
with ketchup to pour over the loaf. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 141 

Meat Curry 

One can minced beef (1 pound), one onion, six sweet 
almonds, two eggs, one-quarter pint milk, one ounce butter, 
one teaspoon curry, one lemon. 

Fry the sliced onion, soak a small slice of bread in milk, 
grate the almonds, beat the eggs in the milk, mix all to- 
gether with the meat, butter, and curry. Grease a pudding 
dish with butter, squeeze into it the juice of a lemon, then 
turn in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve 
hot with rice. 

Baked Sweetbreads 

One can sweetbreads (1 pound), one onion, one carrot, parsley 
stock. 

Slice the onion and carrot and mince the parsley into a 
baking dish. On top of these place the sweetbreads, pour 
over suflScient stock to cover, and bake in a moderate oven, 
basting often. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Chicken in Spinach 

One can chicken (1 pound), one can spinach (No. 2), cream 
sauce, mace, egg. 

Heat the spinach in a double boiler with a blade of mace. 
Line a mold with slices of the egg, hard boiled; in this place 
the spinach in a thick layer. Fill the center with the 
chicken diced and in a cream sauce, cover with the spinach, 
heat in the oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



U« COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

VEGETABLES 

Artichokes 

Artichokes may be served whole or cut in halves or 
quarters. The number in a can varies with the size of the 
can. The artichokes are most easily heated by placing the 
can before opening in a vessel of hot water. The edible 
part of the artichoke consists of the large receptacle and 
the fleshy base of the bracts or leaves. They may be 
served cold, or hot with Bechamel sauce. 

Genoese Artichokes 

One can artichokes, one ounce butter, one tablespoon flour, 
pepper, salt, one can bouillon (No. 1), one teaspoon tarragon 
vinegar, two egg yolks. 

Sauce: Mix the flour, salt, and pepper and cook in the 
butter, then add the bouillon and vinegar, and when ready 
to serve, add the eggs. Heat the artichokes, drain by turn- 
ing leaves down, cut in quarters, and pour the sauce over 
them. 

Artichoke Hearts 

The artichoke hearts may be warmed in the can or in a 
saucepan, or sauted and served with melted butter, Becha- 
mel, or HoUandaise sauce. They may be served cold with 
tartar sauce. 

Asparagus and Cheese 

One can asparagus (No. 2J^), cheese, butter. 

Heat the asparagus in the can, then drain, arrange in 
layers, the heads one way, with grated cheese between, and 
pour over them very hot butter. 

The canned asparagus is much superior to that in the 
market, as it is canned immediately after cutting. That 
found in the market has been cut at least twenty-four hours, 
usually much longer. Asparagus gradually becomes tough 
and bitter after cutting, and the longer it is held, the more 
pronounced are these features. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 143 

Stuffed Artichokes 

Artichokes, forcemeat, butter. 

Drain the artichokes, remove the middle leaves and the 
chokes. Fill with a well-seasoned forcemeat, and bake long 
enough to cook the meat. Serve with melted butter. 

Asparagus 

One can asparagus (No. 2), white or Hollandaise sauce. 

The asparagus is drained, placed on buttered toast, and 
white or Hollandaise sauce served, to which has been added 
the juice of a blood orange, and a small amount of the 
grated rind. If it is desired to serve the asparagus in 
pieces, the hotel or soup stock asparagus will answer the 
purpose as well and is cheaper. Hotel stock consists of 
the irregular and broken stalks that cannot be packed in the 
regular grades. 

Asparagus in Croustades 

One can asparagus, hotel stock (No. 2), one loaf bread, one- 
half pint white cream sauce. 

Cut slices of rather stale bread, cutting out the center 
but not quite through with a small biscuit cutter, brush 
with butter, and brown in the oven. The cylindrical loaf 
is more ornamental than the square. Drain the asparagus, 
cut in uniform pieces, pour over them the thick sauce, and 
serve in the croustades. 

Tomatoes 

One can tomatoes (No. 8), pepper, salt, croutons. 
Season the tomatoes and heat. Serve garnished with the 
croutons. 

String Beans 

One can string beans (No. 2), two ounces butter, salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, one-half pint white sauce, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, and the juice of one lemon. 

Make a sauce by melting the butter, adding the white 
sauce, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, then the drained beans 
and heat. When ready to serve, add the parsley and 
lemon juice. 



Digitized by 



Google 



144 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

String beans may be served by heating in the can, drain- 
ing and adding butter, salt, and pepper, or with vinegar. 

Lima Beans 

One can lima beans (No. 2), two ounces butter, salt, pepper, 
parsley chopped, and lemon juice. 

Drain the beans and put in a pan with the butter, salt, 
and pepper. Heat for a few minutes, then add the chopped 
parsley and lemon juice. 

They may be served by heating in the can, draining, then 
adding butter, salt, and pepper. 

Celery with Cream 

One can celery (No. 2), two ounces butter, one tablespoon 
cornstarch, nutmeg, one can consomme (No. 1), two egg yolks, 
three tablespoons cream, croutons. 

Heat the celery in the can. Make a sauce by heating 
the butter, add the cornstarch or flour. Then moisten with 
the consomme, and cook until somewhat reduced. Add 
the drained celery cut into lengths and heat again. Then 
add the nutmeg and the beaten egg yolks in the cream. 
Serve garnished with the croutons. 

Carrots with Cream 

One can carrots, disks (No. 23^), three tablespoons Becha- 
mel sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg, one-half pint cream, chopped 
parsley. 

Heat the carrots, drain, then add the sauce, seasoning, 
and cream. Heat thoroughly, place in a hot dish and 
sprinkle the parsley over them. 

Spinach 

One can spinach, salt, pepper, nutmeg, one and one-half 
ounces butter, bread croutons. 

Drain the spinach, chop fine, season with salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg. Heat in double boiler, and when hot, add the 
butter. Serve garnished with croutons. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 145 

Kornlet Fritters 

One can kornlet (No. 2), one-quarter pint milk, one egg, 
pepper, salt, one teaspoon butter, two teaspoons baking 
powder, flour. 

To the kornlet add the pepper, salt, melted butter, beaten 
egg, milk, and suiflScient flour to thicken. Drop by the 
spoonful into hot fat, and fry until brown. The kornlet is 
composed of the grated kernels of the corn, having the hulls 
removed. 

Baked Beans 

One can beans (No. 2), sliced bacon. 

Heat the beans in the can, and while heating, fry thin 
slices of bacon. Place the beans on a small deep platter, 
and then arrange the bacon on the top. 

Kidney Beans 

One can kidney beans (No. 2), sliced bacon. 

The kidney beans are prepared with a sauce, so that they 
may be served the same as the baked beans if they are the 
main dish for lunch. If served as a side dish, they need 
only to be heated, as they are usually prepared with a sauce. 

Red Kidney Beans 

One can beans (No. 2), small onions. 

The kidney beans are prepared with a sauce, so that all 
that is necessary is to heat them. Serve garnished with 
small onions glazed. To glaze onions, place in a pan with 
butter, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and place in a slow 
oven for about fifteen minutes. 

Beets 

The beets can be obtained in different sizes — less than an 
inch in diameter, above an inch in diameter, and the large 
ones sliced. They may be served hot with butter, pepper, 
and salt, or with hot or cold Bechamel sauce, or with plain 
or spiced vinegar. The small ones may be used to garnish 
other vegetables or mixed with them. 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Sweet Potatoes 

One can sweet potatoes, salt, pepper, butter, powdere<l 
sugar. 

Remove the potatoes from the can without separating 
them, cut into slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, spread 
with butter, sprinkle with powdered sugar. Brown in a 
hot oven. Bacon dripping may be used instead of butter. 

Sweet Potatoes, Baked 

One can sweet potatoes, salt, pepper, butter, sugar. 

Heat the potatoes in the can, then mash and add season- 
ing and butter. Put in a baking pan, dot with butter, 
sprinkle with sugar, and place in the oven to brown. Tomato 
ketchup may be served with them, or a hot tomato sauce. 

Spaghetti 

Spaghetti is prepared with spiced tomato sauce and 
cheese, so that heating is all that is necessary. It may be 
placed in a baking pan, and strewn with buttered bread 
crumbs and grated cheese, and browned in the oven. 

Peas, French Method 

One can peas (No. 2), one onion, one teaspoon sugar, salt, 
bouquet. 

To a pint of water add the onion, sugar, salt, and bouquet, 
and simmer for half an hour, then drain off the liquor, dis- 
card the onion and bouquet, add the drained and rinsed 
peas, allowing them to heat slowly, so as to become flavored. 
The bouquet consists of four sprigs of parsley, one stalk of 
celery, one bay leaf, one sprig of thyme, and two cloves. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

One can tomatoes (No. 3), two cups bread crumbs, salt, 
pepper, one ounce butter. 

Cover the bottom of an earthenware dish with one cup 
of the crumbs. Pour on these the seasoned tomatoes, and 
spread over the surface the second cup of crumbs after 
stirring them in the melted butter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 147 

Peas, alone, or with Egg Plant or French Toast 

One can peas (No. 2), one ounce butter, pepper. 

Drain the peas, place in pan with butter and pepper to 
heat. Or the peas may be drained, rinsed under the faucet, 
then heated in water, and when hot, drained and the season- 
ing added. The peas may be served on slices of egg plant, 
fried, or on slices of French toast. 

Corn with Cream 

One can corn (No. 2), one-half pint Bechamel sauce, one- 
quarter pint cream, one-half ounce butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg. 

Add the other ingredients to the corn and heat in a 
covered double boiler. It may be heated with only the 
pepper, salt, cream, and butter. 

Spanish Rice 

One can bouillon (No. 2), one large onion, one pepper, one 
saltspoon salt, three tablespoons lard, one-half pound rice, 
cayenne pepper. 

Fry the finely chopped onion until brown, then add the 
finely chopped pepper and the washed rice. Stir until the 
rice is slightly brown, after which add the bouillon and the 
seasoning. Cook until the rice has absorbed the liquid 
and become rather dry. 

Lima Beans 

One can beans (No. 2), one ounce butter, salt, pepper, one- 
quarter pint cream. 

Heat the beans, drain, add the butter, seasoning, and 
cream, and heat again. 

Tomatoes with Rice 

One can tomatoes (No. S), one cup rice, one ounce bacon 
drippings, one can pimientas, one onion, salt, pepper. 

Chop the tomatoes, onion, and pimientas fine and saute 
in the bacon fat until a light brown, add the seasoning, a 
pint of water, and the rice which has been soaked until 
swelled. 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Succotash 

One can succotash (No. 2), one ounce butter, salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, one-quarter pint cream. 

Heat the succotash in a double boiler, add the butter 
and seasoning, and when ready to serve, add the cream. 

Spanish Okra 

One can okra (No. 2), sliced, one can tomato pulp (No. 1), 
one ounce butter, one onion, one teaspoon salt, one-half tea- 
spoon pepper, one-half teaspoon parsley. 

Chop the onion and brown in the butter, add the tomato, 
the drained okra, and the seasoning. Cover the pan so as 
to heat thoroughly. Pour into a hot dish and serve with 
triangles of toast used as a garnish. 

Pur^e of Peas for Garnishing 

One can large peas (No. 2), one sliced carrot, one sliced onion 
one leek, salt, pepper, one stick celery, two sprigs parsley, one 
clove of garlic, one-half pound raw ham bones, one-half ounce 
of butter. 

Pour the contents of the can into a saucepan and add the 
other ingredients except the butter, boil for fifteen minutes, 
remove the ham bones and let the remainder simmer until 
the vegetables are softened. Press through a sieve into a 
double boiler, heat, add the butter, and mix thoroughly. 
The puree may be pressed through a pastry bag into roses 
and used as a fancy border. 

Tomatoes and Peppers 

One can tomatoes (No. 3), one can peppers, six onions, one- 
half ounce butter, salt. 

Chop the onion and brown lightly in the butter, then add 
the tomatoes and peppers cut in small pieces. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Hominy 

One can of hominy (No. 3), one ounce butter, salt, pepper. 
Heat the hominy, then add the butter and seasoning. 
Serve very hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 149 

Fried Hominy 

One can hominy (No. 3), one-half ounce bacon drippings, 
salt, pepper. 

Heat the bacon fat in a frying pan, put in the hominy so 
as to be about an inch thick. Let it brown, turn, and brown 
on the other side. 

Okra in Cream 

One can okra, whole (No. 2), one ounce butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one-half pint cream, salt, cayenne pepper, nutmeg. 

Heat the okra in the can, drain and pour over a sauce 
made of the other ingredients. 

Cornmeal Mush 

One can mush (No. 3), one-half ounce bacon drippings. 
Remove the mush from the can, cut into slices a quarter- 
inch thick, and saute brown in the fat. 

Creamed Mushrooms 

One can mushrooms (No. 2), one ounce butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one-half pint cream, pepper, salt. 

Drain the mushrooms and use the liquor from the can 
for the sauce. Make a white sauce in the usual way, add 
the mushrooms, heat thoroughly. 

Sauer Kraut with Sausage 

One can kraut (No. 3), sausage. 

Heat the kraut in the can, heap in the center of a platter, 
and serve surrounded with the sausages broiled. The 
canned kraut with sausage may be used. 

Creamed Cabbage 

One can cabbage (No. 23^), one teaspoon butter, one tea- 
spoon flour, one pint milk, salt, pepper. 

Drain the cabbage, chop fine. Add to the heated milk 
in a double boiler the flour, butter, salt, and pepper, rubbed 
to a paste, and cook imtil the sauce has thickened. Add 
the cabbage and heat again. Serve hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



150 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Stuffed Peppers 

One can peppers (eight ounces), one can tomato pur^e 
(No. 1), one-half can mushrooms, one can sausage, two egg 
yolks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, salt pork, one large onion. 

Fry the onion, add the mushrooms minced, the sausage, 
and the tomato puree, mix, then thicken with bread crumbs, 
which have been seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 
and bind with the egg yolks. Fill the drained peppers with 
the mixture, set on thin slices of the pork, and bake for 
fifteen minutes'. Before serving pour some of the tomato 
puree over them, sprinkle with grated cheese, and retiu*n 
to the oven to melt the cheese. 

Hungary Onions 

One can pimientas (eight ounces), one half pound cream 
cheese, one large onion, one pint cream, one teaspoon paprika. 

Mince the onion and boil imtil tender. Drain, and add 
the cheese, cream, the peppers cut into uniform pieces, and 
the paprika. Serve hot. 

Creamed Turnips 

One can turnips (No. 2}^), one ounce butter, one tablespoon 
flour, one pint milk, salt, pepper. 

Make a white sauce, and to it add the heated, drained 
turnips. Mix and serve hot. 

Mashed Turnips 

One can turnips (No. 2j^), two ounces butter, salt, pepper. 

Drain the turnips, heat in double boiler, mash, leave un- 
covered to dry them. Add butter and seasoning, cover to 
heat thoroughly. 

Flemish Asparagus 

One can asparagus (No. 2}^), eggs hard boiled, butter. 

Heat the asparagus in the can, serve with half a hard 
boiled egg to each portion, and a small dish of melted butter. 
The yolk may be worked into the butter before serving. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 151 

SALADS 

The making of salads is much simplified and the cost 
reduced by the use of canned fruits, vegetables, fish, or meat. 
The food is cooked and there is no waste, as a can containing 
only the amount needed may be bought. The prepared 
dressings may also be used, and may be varied by the addi- 
tion of cream, sour cream, or the materials used in tartar 
sauce. Instead of onion and garlic juices the prepared 
seasonings may be used, and as they are in the form of salt, 
are more easily kept in stock than the fresh bulbs. 

Artichoke Salad 

The artichokes are ready to serve as they are taken from 
the can. They may be served cold with a spoon of mayon- 
naise by the side, or dressed with artichoke dressing. The 
fleshy receptacle and the thickened base of the scales are 
the edible parts. 

Artichoke Salad 

Artichokes, mayonnaise. 

One artichoke for each person. Loosen the outer leaves 
and arrange as a rosette round choke; also take out a few 
of the central ones, so as to make a place into which the 
mayonnaise may be placed. 

Asparagus Salad 

One can asparagus, lettuce, mayonnaise. 

Remove the stalks carefully from the can, so as not to 
break the tips, arrange on lettuce leaves, place a spoonful 
of mayonnaise near the tips. 

Artichoke and Bean Salad 

One can artichokes (No. 2), one can string beans (No. 2), 
one onion, two medium-sized boiled potatoes, celery, mayon- 
naise. 

Mince the artichokes, beans, onion, celery, and potatoes. 
Season with pepper and salt, and dress with mayonnaise. 
Garnish with celery tips. 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Bean Salad 

One can beans (No. 2), one small onion, olives, parsley, 
French dressing. 

Rinse and drain the beans (lima, red kidney, string, or 
wax may be used), mix with the chopped onion, olives, and 
parsley. ' Cover with French dressing. Garnish with ripe 
olives. 

String Bean Salad 

One can string beans (No. 2), one cake cream cheese, mayon- 
naise. 

Rinse and drain the beans, marinate with some of the 
mayonnaise, place on the heart leaves of lettuce. Garnish 
with a spoon of the mayonnaise on top and three small 
cream cheese balls, which may be moistened with sherry 
or with cream to make the balls. 

String Bean Salad 

One can string beans (No. 2), three hard boiled eggs, French 
dressing, watercress. 

Pour the beans into a strainer, rinse with cold water, 
drain dry, marinate with French dressing, garnish with the 
eggs cut into slices, and the watercress. 

Mixed Vegetable Salad 

One can small kidney beans (No. 2), one can small string 
beans (No. 2), one can beets (No. 2), lettuce, French dressing. 

Arrange a nest of lettuce leaves, place the diced beets in 
the center, around these the beans, and the string beans as 
an outer ring. Pour French dressing over them. Tiny 
beets may be obtained and served whole. 

Swiss Beet Salad 

One can beets (No. 2), whole peppers, cloves, bay leaves, 
vinegar, lettuce. ' 

Cut the beets into rather thin slices, sprinkle with salt, 
whole peppers, whole cloves, and two bay leaves, and pour 
the vinegar over them. Let stand to season. Serve next 
day on lettuce leaves. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 153 

Cauliflower Salad 

One can cauliflower, one can beets, mayonnaise. 

Rinse, drain, and divide the cauliflower. Drain the beets, 
cover with vinegar, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and let 
stand for a few hours. When ready to use, drain well and 
cut into strips to garnish the cauliflower. Pour over them 
the mayonnaise when ready to serve. 

Vienna Salad 

One can beets (No. 2), three boiled potatoes, one small 
onion, two hard boiled eggs, salt, pepper, four tablespoons 
vinegar, one teaspoon made mustard, one raw egg yolk, one 
ounce butter, one tablespoon parsley. 

Slice the potatoes and beets very thin, and the eggs not 
so thin; chop the onion very fine; mix and season with salt 
and pepper. 

Dressing: Heat the vinegar, add the mustard, and stir 
in the beaten yolk of the egg, the butter melted, and the 
chopped parsley. Serve the salad with cold meat. 

Spanish Salad 

One can chicken (eight ounces), one-quarter pound almonds, 
one red pimienta, one bunch celery, small canned beets, 
one-quiarter teaspoon salt, one teaspoon curry powder, two 
tablespoons tarragon vinegar, foiir tablespoons olive oil, 
bananas. 

Cut chicken and celery into dice, the almonds, pimienta, 

and onion fine, mix with the salt, curry powder, vinegar, 

and olive oil. Garnish with sliced beets and bananas. 

Cherry Salad, Sweet 

One can Royal Anne cherries (No. 2), oranges, one egg yolk, 
two-thirds cup powdered sugar, vanilla. 

Cut the cherries into quarters. Cut the top off the 
oranges and remove the pulp, saving the shells for baskets. 
Cut the pulp into neat pieces, and mix with the cherries. 
Sweeten if cherries are not in syrup. Fill the baskets and 
place a spoonful of dressing on top. 

Dressing: The egg yolk beaten until thick with two- 
thirds cup of powdered sugar, and flavored with vanilla. 



Digitized by 



Google 



154 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Neapolitan Salad 

^ One can chicken or turkey (eight ounces), three medium- 
sized potatoes, one-half can beets (No. 2), two hard boiled eggs, 
capers, lettuce, mayonnaise. 

Cut the chicken, cold potatoes, and beets into dice, 
sprinkle with chopped eggs, salt, and pepper. Serve on 
lettuce with mayonnaise. Garnish with capers and beet 
cubes, or tiny whole beets. 

Chicken Salad 

^ One can chicken (eight ounces), celery, olives, one small can 
pimientas, lettuce, mayonnaise. 

Cut chicken, celery, and olives into small uniform pieces, 
and the pimientas into inch strips; mix with mayonnaise. 
Arrange on crisp lettuce leaves and garnish with whole 
olives and strips of pimienta. 

California Salad 

One can crab meat (No. 1), two-thirds cup celery, two 
tomatoes, French dressing, lettuce, maybnnaise. 

Cut the crab and celery into small imiform pieces, the 
tomato into small sections, and marinate with French dress- 
ing. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

Swedish Salad 

One can fish (eight ounces, any kind), two hard boiled eggs, 
olives, capers, gherkins, lettuce, mayonnaise, aspic. 

Cut the fish into small pieces, mix with chopped hard 
boiled eggs, and sliced olives, capers, and gherkins. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 
Garnish with aspic cut into dice. 

Oyster Salad 

One can oysters, celery, mayonnaise, lettuce. 

Drain the oysters, cut into small pieces, and mix with an 
equal quantity of celery cut into narrow inch lengths. Mix 
with mayonnaise, place on lettuce leaves, and garnish with 
a spoonful of firm mayonnaise. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 155 

Tuna Salad 

One can white tuna (eight ounces), three cups diced celery, 
French dressing, mayonnaise, lettuce. 

Drain the oil from the fish, shred, mix with celery, and 
marinate with French dressing. Arrange on lettuce, and 
place a spoonful of firm mayonnaise on top. Unless well 
drained, the tima will be oily, as it is packed in oil. 

Tuna Salad, Jellied 

One can tuna (eight ounces), one-half package gelatin, 
lemon, parsley, olives, mayonnaise. 

Drain the fish, shred, add lemon juice, paprika, and the 
dissolved gelatin. Mix well and fill individual molds. 
When the gelatin is set, serve on lettuce and garnish with 
olives and mayonnaise. 

Fish Salad 

One can salmon (or other fish) (No. 1), one cucumber, 
lettuce, mayonnaise. 

Drain the fish from the oil, free from skin and bones, 
then cut into neat pieces (each piece sufficient for a portion). 
Place on lettuce and garnish with very thin slices of cucum- 
ber. Dress with mayonnaise. 

Leftover Salad 

Small amounts of canned peaches, pears, etc., may be left, 
over. These can be utilized by slicing them neatly, and 
alternating the different kinds on a lettuce leaf. The 
syrups may be mixed, boiled down, and then have lemon 
juice and maraschino or wine added, and poured over the 
fruit. 

Pear Salad 

One can pears, maraschino cherries, lettuce, lemon. 

Drain the pears, cut in slices, arrange on a lettuce leaf, 
and garnish with the cherries. Boil the syrup from the 
pears imtil it is thick. When cold, add lemon juice and 
maraschino, and pour over the pears. 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Celery and Tuna Salad 

One can tuna (eight ounces), celery, one small onion, one 
pepper, lemon, Worcestershire sauce. 

Select the curved inner, tender, celery stalks, trim to the 
desired length, then fill with the following mixture: Drain 
the tuna, shred fine, mix with the finely cut onion and 
pepper, season with salt, paprika, lemon juice, and Wor- 
cestershire sauce. Coat the inside of the celery shells with 
mayonnaise, fill with the mixture, cover with mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce. Garnish with celery tips. 

Pimienta and Tomato Salad 

One can pimientas, one can tomatoes (No. 2), one onion, one 
teaspoon sugar, four cloves, one bay leaf, one-half package 
gelatin, one teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, lettuce. 

Use the pimientas whole, straightening them into origi- 
nal shape. Boil the other ingredients, except the gelatin, 
for ten minutes, then add the gelatin which has been soaked 
in one-half cup of water; filter through cheese cloth. When 
cool, and just about to set, fill the pimientas. Let them 
stand until the gelatin is well set, cut into slices, place on 
lettuce, and place a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. 

Pimienta Salad 

One can pimientas (red and green), five rather small cucum- 
bers, French dressing. 

Cut a lengthwise slice of the cucumber, take out the 
inside with a curved grapefruit knife, so both parts may be 
intact. Cut the inside into slices, the pimientas into inch 
strips, and marinate with French dressing. Fill the cucum- 
ber shells with the mixture, and serve on fancy paper doilies 
on plates. 

Pea Salad 

One can peas (No. 2), one-quarter pound shelled pecans, 
mayonnaise, lettuce, ripe olives. 

Rinse and drain peas, mix with the pecans and mayon- 
naise, arrange on lettuce, and garnish with ripe olives. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 157 

Portuguese Salad 

One can pimientas, two tomatoes, one onion, two cucum- 
bers, one clove of garlic, one-half pint vinegar, one-eighth pint 
olive oil. 

Slice pimientas, tomatoes, onion, and cucumbers. 
Sprinkle with the garlic cut very fine. Pour over the vine- 
gar and oil mixed and seasoned with salt and pepper. The 
salad may be placed on trimmed slices of bread before pour- 
ing on the dressing. 

Mexican Salad 

One can pimientas, one large onion, three firm tomatoes, 
parsley, French dressing, lettuce. 

Cut the pimientas into long strips, the onion into thin 
slices, separating the rings, and the tomato into thin slices. 
Mix the pimientas and onion, and marinate with French 
dressing. Alternate the slices of tomato and the mixture on 
lettuce. Sprinkle the finely chopped parsley on top. 

Pineapple Salad 

One can sliced pineapple (No. 23^), one can cherries (No. 2), 
lettuce, mayonnaise, cream. 

Place single slices of pineapple on crisp lettuce leaves, 
and fill the center with cherries. When ready to serve, 
garnish with spoon of mayonnaise into which the stiffly 
beaten cream has been mixed. (If any portion of the pine- 
apple heart is left on the slices, it should be removed before 
the slices are prepared, as it is difficult to separate with a 
fork.) 

Pineapple and Grapefruit Salad 

One can shredded pineapple, grapefruit, maraschino cherries, 
cream mayonnaise. 

Remove the skin and all the white pulp from grapefruit, 
open sections, and shred the pulp into fine pieces. Mix 
with the shredded pineapple and some of the liquor from 
the cherries. Serve in cocktail glasses with spoon of cream 
mayonnaise on top, and garnish with cherries. 



Digitized by 



Google 



158 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Pineapple and Nut Salad 

One can sliced pineapple (No. 23^, English walnuts, lettuce, 
mayonnaise. 

Cut the pineapple into dice, and mix with mayonnaise. 
Serve in heart leaves of lettuce, and sprinkle nuts cut into 
small pieces over the pineapple. 

Lobster Salad 

One can lobster, lettuce, mayonnaise, gherkins, celery tips. 

Cut the lobster into dice and keep on ice. When ready 
to serve, mix with mayonnaise, arrange on lettuce, garnish 
with sliced gherkins and the crisp tips of celery. 

FUh Roe Salad 

One can fish roe (8 ounces), two cucumbers, one onion, 
French dressing. 

Cut the roe into dice, marinate with French dressing to 
which has been added a teaspoon of onion juice. Arrange 
on lettuce leaves, and garnish with thin slices cut length- 
wise of slender cucumbers. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

One can tomato (No. 3), one small onion, four cloves, one- 
half bay leaf, one-half package gelatin, one teaspoon salt, 
one eighth teaspoon pepper, mayonnaise, lettuce. 

Soak the gelatin in one-half cup water, while the other 
ingredients are boiled for ten minutes. Press through a 
sieve and add the gelatin. Fill individual molds. When 
firm, take from mold, and place on a crisp lettuce leaf with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. Small cheese balls may 
be used for a garnish. 

Salmon Salad 

One can red salmon (No. 1), lettuce, cucumber, mayonnaise, 
green olives. 

Separate the salmon into flakes, place on lettuce leaves, 
cover with mayonnaise. Garnish with olives, and quarter 
disks of cucumber. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 159 

Egyptian Salad 

One cup cold cooked rice, one onion, parsley, chives, one 
can sardines (No. Ji), lettuce, mayonnaise, canned beets. 

Mix highly seasoned rice with grated onion, chopped 
parsley and chives, and add the finely cut sardines. Serve 
on lettuce with mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with the 
beets cut into shreds. 

Shrimp Salad 

One can shrimp (No. 2), one cup celery, lettuce, green and 
ripe olives, mayonnaise. 

Cut the shrimp into small pieces, saving a few of the 
finest ones for garnishing. Mix the shrimp and celery with 
mayonnaise. Place on shredded lettuce with one whole 
shrimp on top. Garnish with the olives. 

Spinach Salad 

One can spinach (No. 3), one onion, one ounce butter, lemon 
juice, one can tongue, tartar sauce, water cress. 

Pass the spinach through a food chopper, using the finest 
knife, and season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and the 
butter melted. Pack tightly in slightly buttered indi- 
vidual molds, and cool. When ready to serve, remove 
from molds, and place on thin, trinmied slices of tongue. 
Place a spoonful of tartar sauce on each and garnish with 
watercress. 

Tomato Salad 

One can salad tomatoes, French dressing, lettuce, chives. 

Take the tomatoes carefully out of the can, drain well, 
and place one on a lettuce leaf. Pour over French dressing 
and sprinkle with finely chopped chives. 

This may be varied in many ways; the tomato may be 
cut into thick slices and dressed with thin slices of cucum- 
ber, or may have mounds of other vegetables, as peas, 
string beans, etc., and may be garnished with green, ripe, 
or stuflFed olives, or cream cheese balls, mayonnaise, oi 
tartar sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



160 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Polish Salad 

One can shrimp (No. 1), one can sardines, two hard boiled 
eggs, one onion, capers, gherkins, parsley, one-quarter cup 
vinegar, lettuce, mayonnaise. 

Cut the shrimp and sardines into small pieces, mix with 
the finely cut eggs, onion, gherkins, and parsley. Moisten 
with the vinegar. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise 



Plain Tomato Salad 

One can salad tomatoes, six small onions, lettuce, vinegar. 

Drain the tomatoes, cut into thick slices, garnish with 
thin slices of young onions. Season with salt, pepper, and 
vinegar. 

Sardine Salad 

One can sardines (No. J^), six eggs, mayonnaise, water cress. 

Skin the sardines and grind into a paste; boil the eggs 
hard, cut into halves and remove the yolks. Mix the yolks 
with the sardine paste, and moisten well with mayonnaise. 
Fill the whites with the mixture, and arrange on lettuce. 
Beet Salad 

One can beets, watercress, lettuce, French dressing. 

Cut small beets in slices, dip in French dressing, arrange 
on lettuce leaves with slices overlapping. Garnish with 
watercress. 

Beet Salad 

One can beets, mayonnaise, one can peas (No. 1), one cup 
diced celery, lettuce, olives. 

Trim the beets to uniform shape, cut off the end so they 
will stand on a plate. With a potato ball cutter take out 
the center, leaving enough of the outside to form a cup. 
Let the beets stand an hour in vinegar, then fill with the 
mixture of celery, peas, and mayonnaise. Arrange the 
beets on heart lettuce leaves, and garnish with olives and 
the beet balls. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 161 

DESSERTS 

In using the canned fruits, a certain amount of sugar is 
designated, but this will necessarily have to be varied, 
according to the strength of the syrup in the can. 

Pears and Rice 

One can pears, large halves, (No. 2j^, marmalade, rice, 
cream. 

Cook the rice in milk in a double boiler, mix with cream 
and place in a shallow round dish. In the rice arrange the 
pears with the stem end toward center, and cut side up. 
Fill the scooped-out center of the pears with marmalade. 
Serve with a sauce made from the reduced syrup in the can 
flavored with maraschino. 
Strawberries and Macaroons 

One can large strawberries (^>^. 4,), two dozen macaroons, 
one wine-glass rum. 

Put a layer of macaroons in the bottom of the dish in 
which the dessert is to be served, then a layer of the drained 
strawberries. Sprinkle with sugar, then another layer of 
each until all are used. Pour the rum over them, and set 
on fire. The rum may be set on fire at the table. 
Berry Pudding 

One can berries (No. 2), two tablespoons corn starch, or 
four of flour, one-half pint thick cream. 

Drain the berries, mix the juice with the cornstarch, 
and add sugar if the syrup is not sweet enough. Put in a 
double boiler, mixing the berries in, and cook until thick. 
Serve either hot or cold, with the cream, sweetened. 
Peach Conserve 

One can peaches (No. 23^), one lemon, one orange, one cup 
sugar, one cup raisins, one cup walnut meats. 

Cook the thickly sliced outer skin of the lemon and 
orange in the peach syrup until tender, then add the peaches 
sliced, the walnuts cut in pieces, and also the raisins. Cook 
until of the desired consistency. 



Digitized by 



Google 



162 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Peaches and Macar«>oii8 

One can peaches (No. 2}^, one dozen macaroons, one egg 
yolk, one cup white wine. 

Drain the peaches and place in a pan with the pit side 
up, reserving two of the pieces. Mince these with the 
macaroons, adding the beaten egg yolk and one tablespoon 
of sugar. Fill the peaches with the mixture, pour over 
them the wine, and sprinkle with sugar. Bake for ten 
minutes in a hot oven. A sauce may be made of the excess 
syrup, or it may be poured around the peaches while baking, 
and served as a sauce. 

Surprise Puffs 

One can fruit, biscuit dough. 

Make a rather thin biscuit dough, with which half fill gem 
cups; on this place a hslf apricot, peach, or other fruit, well 
drained, then more djugn :n top, and bake. The syrup 
may be concentrated by boiling, properly seasoned, and 
used for a sauce. 

Apricot Souffl6 

One can apricots (No. 2), six egg whites, sugar, cream. 

Drain the apricots, run through a food-chopper, and 
sweeten to taste. Add to the stiffly beaten whites, and 
bake in a buttered cake-pan for about half an hour. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Apple Pudding 

One can apples (No. 23^, one ounce butter, three eggs, 
sugar, cinnamon, breadcrumbs. 

Butter a deep baking dish, strew with crumbs, then pieces 
of apple, season with sugar and cinnamon, then another 
layer in the same way, placing crumbs on top, and dotting 
with butter. Beat the eggs light and pour over all. Bake 
for about half an hour. A few minutes before taking from 
the oven, shake powdered sugar on the top to give it a brown 
color. Serve with cream or a sauce made from the juice 
in the can. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 163 

Cherry Souffle 

One can cherries (No. 2), two tablespoons flour, two ounces 
butter, one pint milk, four eggs, nutmeg, cinnamon, one-half 
pint cream. 

Wet the flour with the milk, then heat to thicken. Beat 
the egg yolks until light, add the butter softened and the 
spice, and mix with the milk, then add the stiflly beaten 
whites, the drained pitted cherries, and the cream. Bake 
in a hot oven, and serve immediately. A sauce may be 
made, if desired, from the syrup. 

Pineapple Mousse 

One can grated pineapple (No. 2), one tablespoon gelatin, 
one pint cream, one cup sugar. 

Soak the gelatin in water, then add to the heated drained 
juice from the pineapple, strain, and cool. As it begins 
to stiffen, fold in the beaten cream, then mold, and freeze. 
To make it richer, the pineapple may be cooked with sugar, 
cooled, and used as a sauce. 

Apple Dumplings 

One can apples (No. 2j^), one cup sugar, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one pint sifted flour, milk, nutmeg, salt. 

Put the apples, syrup, and sugar into a covered saucepan, 
season with cinnamon, and heat. Make a soft dough of the 
flour, baking powder, salt, and milk, sifting the flour two 
or three times to make it very light. When the apple mix- 
ture boils, drop pieces of dough the size of a walnut in and 
cook for twenty minutes. The mixture may be used as a 
sauce. Other fruits may be used instead of the apples. 

Gamished Apricots 

One can apricots (No. 2), one cup sugar, one pint double 
cream, one-half cup chopped nutmeats. 

Whip the cream, add the sugar and nuts, and fill the 
centers of the drained apricots with the mixture. Garnish 
with a half nut meat if walnuts be used, or a whole meat if 
a smaller nut. 



Digitized by 



Google 



164 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Apple Pudding 

One can whole apples (No. 3), one cup raisins, seeded, one 
cup sugar, three eggs, one teaspoon salt, one pound flour, 
one pint milk, one ounce butter, one teaspoon baking powder. 

Butter a baking dish, set the apples in the bottom, filling 
the core with the raisins and sugar. Make a batter of the 
flour, salt, baking powder, and milk, beating until light, 
then add the well beaten eggs. Pour the batter over the 
apples, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, loosen 
the edges of the crust, and turn it upper side- down on a 
plate. Arrange the apples on the crust. 

Jam Pudding 

Three tablespoons jam, three tablespoons flour, three table- 
spoons sugar, three ounces butter, one teaspoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one-half pint milk, two eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the well beaten yolks, 
then the salt, jam, flour, well beaten whites, and lastly the 
soda dissolved in the milk. Cook in a covered dish, set 
in a pan of water and bake for one and one-half hours. 
The pudding may be served with cream, or a sauce made by 
creaming one cup of sugar with one-quarter pound of butter, 
add this to a cup of cream heated in a double boiler, then 
a well beaten egg. When it has thickened, add a table- 
spoon of brandy. In making the sauce, it is improved if it 
is beaten constantly with an egg beater while thickening. 

Fruit Bavarian Cream 

One can fruit (No. 2), one-half pint double cream, one cup 
sugar, four eggs, one-half package gelatin. 

Soak the gelatin in water, then dissolve if necessary with 
the heated drained juice from the fruit, add the sugar, the 
well beaten eggs, and part of the cream. When beginning 
to set, add the stiffly beaten whites and the rest of the cream 
beaten dry. The fruit should be arranged in a mold, the 
mixture i>oured over it, and allowed to set. In serving, 
use sherbet glasses, and garnish with a rosette of whipped 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 165 

Fig Pudding 

One can figs (No. 1), one cup crumbs, one-half pint milk, 
three ounces powdered suet, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon nutmeg, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, three eggs. 

Drain the figs and cut into small pieces. Soak the 
crumbs in the milk, then add the well beaten eggs, spices, 
and suet. Stir in the figs which have been dredged with 
flour. Turn into a greased pudding mold, with a tightly 
fitted cover, and steam for three hours. Use the drained 
syrup for a sauce, and garnish with whipped cream. 

Berry Ice 

One can berries (No. 2), one cup sugar, two cups water, 
lemon. 

Boil the sugar, water, and the juice drained from the 
berries for about ten minutes. Cool, and if not tart, add 
the lemon juice, then freeze. The berries may be used in a 
pie or tarts. 

Prune Short Cake 

One can prunes (No. 2), one-half pint double cream. 

Make a light biscuit dough, roll thin, and cut into rounds, 
placing two together, with a small bit of butter between 
them so they will separate readily when baked. Prepare 
the prunes as for souffle, and use as one would the raw fruit, 
topping with whipped cream. 

Fruit Pudding 

One can fruit (No. 2), slices of bread one-half inch thick, 
butter, two egg whites, spice. 

Line a pudding dish with the slices of bread, buttered, 
place the drained fruit on top, then cover with more but- 
tered bread. Cover the pan, place in a pan of water in the 
oven, and bake for one and one-half hours. Make a 
meringue of the egg whites, and brown lightly. The fruit 
juice may be thickened with arrowroot or cornstarch, and 
used for a sauce. Some syrups may need more sugar and 
some seasoning. 



Digitized by 



Google 



166 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Berry Ice Cream 

One can berries (No. 2), one pint double cream, one pint 
milk, one cup sugar. 

Mix the berries and cream, dissolve the sugar in the milk, 
then add to the other ingredients, and freeze. The syrup 
from the can may be held out, more sugar added, and boiled 
until thick, then served as a sauce, a tablespoon on a service 
of the ice cream. Any berry or small fruit may be used. 

Fruit Gelatin 

One can fruit (No. 2), one-half package gelatin, one cup 
sugar, cream. 

Any fruit with clear syrup, as apricots, peaches, plums, 
etc., may be used. Filter the juice from the fruit, so that 
it may be clear. Soak the gelatin in water, then add the 
heated juice and the sugar. If the fruit is in halves, one 
half may be used for a service, placing it in a small shallow 
dish, and when the gelatin is about to set, pouring it over 
the fruit. If the fruit is sliced, the slices inay be used to line 
a dish, and the gelatin poured over. Serve with the cream 
either plain or whipped. The whipped cream goes farther 
than the plain. 

Fruit and Custard 

One can fruit, one-half cup sugar, two teaspoons corn starch, 
one-half pint of milk, one egg yolk. 

Drain the fruit and line a dish with the pieces, then pour 
over it a custard made of the other ingredients. The 
custard should be made in a double boiler, and when cold, 
poured over the peaches. 

Peach Fritters 

One can halved peaches (No. 2), powdered sugar, three egg 
yolks, one-half pint milk, four tablespoons flour, one salt- 
spoon salt. 

For the batter beat the egg yolks well, then add the milk, 
flour, and salt. Drain the peaches, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, and dip in the batter. Fry in deep fat. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 167 

Cherry Boats 

One can cherries (No. 2), one can marmalade (No. 1), one- 
half cup sugar, one-half tablespoon arrowroot, one-eighth 
teaspoon salt, two tablespoons currant jelly, one-half table- 
spoon brandy, one tablespoon maraschino syrup, one-half 
ounce butter. 

Line boat-shaped tins with pie paste rolled thin, prick 
and fill two-thirds with uncooked rice. Bake in a hot oven 
until browned, then discard the rice, and remove the pastry 
from the tins. Cover the bottom of the boats with mar- 
malade, and on this arrange the cherries in a row. Large 
ones are preferred. Serve with a sauce made by mixing the 
arrowroot, sugar, and salt, then adding gradually two- 
thirds cup of boiling water, stirring constantly. When 
thickened, add the other ingredients. 

Raspberry Layer 

One can raspberries (No. 2), one-half package gelatin, one 
cup sugar, one lemon, one-half pint cream. 

Dissolve one-half package of gelatin in two cups of boiling 
water, add one cup sugar, and lemon juice to flavor. Strain 
to make clear, then pour into a mold and allow to stiffen, 
holding the remaining half in a warm place so it will not 
set. Heat the juice from the raspberries, and in it dissolve 
the other half package of gelatin. When cool, pour over 
the lemon layer, and when this layer has become stiff, pour 
over it the remainder of the lemon gelatin. This may be 
served with either plain or whipped cream, but not covered 
with the cream, as the layers should be seen. 

Pineapple, Grapefruit, Oranges 

One can grated pineapple (No. 2), two grapefruit (large), 
four oranges. 

Peel the grapefruit, separate the sections, then remove 
the pulp, cutting into small bits; peel the oranges and cut 
into thin slices. Mix the pineapple with the prepared raw 
fruit, and let stand to season before using. If not sweet 
enough, add sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



168 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Prune Souffle 

One can prunes in syrup (No. 2), one-half pint double cream, 
vanilla, lady finger biscuits. 

Slip the stone from the prune and cut the flesh into pieces 
or run through a meat chopper, using the coarse cutter. 
Beat the cream dry, flavor with vanilla, and fold into the 
prunes. If the prunes are not sweet enough, sugar should 
be mixed with them before putting in the cream. White 
of egg may be used instead of cream, in which event the 
mixture should be baked long enough to cook the egg. 
Garnish the edges with cream or egg whipped and forced 
through a piping-bag. 

Pineapple in Ice Cream 

One can grated pineapple (No. 2), one jar currants in jelly, 
one pint double cream, one pint vanilla ice cream, one-half 
cup powdered sugar, one tablespoon kirsch, one teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Beat the cream until stiff, add the sugar, vanilla, kirsch, 
and currants; beat thoroughly. Line a lemon mold with 
the ice cream, fill the center with the mixture, cover with 
the ice cream, cover, and pack in one part salt and two 
parts finely crushed ice. Let stand three hours. 

Pineapple Fritters 

One can pineapple, sliced, one-half cup sugar, one table- 
spoon kirsch. 

Drain the slices, dip in batter, and fry in deep fat. Make 
a sauce to serve with them of the sugar, the syrup from the 
can, and the kirsch. This may be omitted, however, as 
the syrup is well flavored without it. 

Strawberry Charlotte 

One can strawberries (No. 2), one-half pint double cream, 
sponge cake. 

Drain the berries and mix with the stiffly beaten cream. 
Line a mold with slices of the sponge cake, fill the center 
with the strawberries and cream. If not used immediately, 
keep separate, holding the cream in the refrigerator. 



Digitized by 



Google 



now TO USE CANNED FOODS 169 

Apricot Meringue 

One can apricots (No. 2), one-half pint double cream, four 
egg whites, four ounces powdered sugar. 

Whip the cream until three times the original volume, 
and place it in the refrigerator on a fine sieve to drain. 
Beat the egg whites dry, add the sugar, then drop by table- 
spoonfuls on white paper placed on an oven board. Place 
in a slow oven, with the door open, until dry and browned 
slightly. When cool, remove the soft part in the center 
and replace with half an apricot. Place mounds of the 
whipped cream on top and serve. The meringues may be 
filled with whipped cream and pieces of apricots. Peaches 
or other tender fruit may be substituted for the apricots. 

Sliced Pears 

One can pears, halves (No. 2)^), one tablespoon brandy. 

Drain the pears, arrange in a glass dish. Cook the syrup 
from the pears until fairly heavy, add the brandy, and pour 
over the pears. 

Apple Tarts 

One can apples (No. 3), sugar, two egg whites, pie crust. 

Line individual tart pans with pie crust, flute the edge, 
slice the apples and arrange them so that the slices overlap. 
Sweeten and spice to taste. Have the egg whites beaten 
dry, so that when the pies are baked, the meringue can be 
put on, and the pies returned to the oven for the meringue 
to brown. 

Peach Cake 

One can sliced peaches (No. 2), sugar, butter, biscuit dough, 
one egg. 

Make a rich biscuit dough, adding to it the well-beaten 
egg, and mixing with milk. Mix rather thin, so that it can 
be spread without using a rolling pin, and place in a round 
layer cake tin. Arrange the peaches in overlapping layers, 
sprinkle liberally with sugar, and dot with butter. Bake 
so as to brown the dough. 



Digitized by 



Google 



170 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Marquise Pudding 

One can pears (No. 2 J^), one can shredded pineapple (No. 2) 
one can pitted cherries (No. 2), four egg whites. 

Drain the fruit and reduce the syrup. Pass the pears 
through the meat chopper. When the reduced syrup is 
cool, add to it the pears, and place in the freezer, turning 
until partly frozen. While. freezing add the stiffly beaten 
whites, then the rest of the fruit. Put the mixture in a 
mold, and surround with ice and salt. 

Plum Pudding, Cold 

One can plum pudding, one tablespoon gelatin, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup lemon juice, one-half cup brandy, two cups 
water. 

Remove the pudding from the can and place in a round 
mold, make a jelly of the other ingredients, and when ready 
to set, pour round the pudding. Set in the refrigerator. 
When ready to serve, dip the mold in hot water for an in- 
stant to facilitate the removal of the pudding, and serve in 
slices. A spoonful of hard sauce may be placed on top. 

Fruit Pudding 

One can shredded pineapple (No. 2), one can apricots, 
halves (No. 2J^), two oranges, puff paste, sugar. 

Line a baking dish with puff paste, on this place a layer 
of the pineapple, sprinkle with sugar, then place a layer of 
sliced oranges with sugar strewn over them, then a layer 
of apricots with sugar. Repeat the layers until the dish 
is full. Cover with the puff paste, and bake to a light brown. 
A sauce may be made from the pineapple and apricot 
syrups. 

Pumpkin Pie 

One can pumpkin (No. 2), two eggs, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one pint milk, one-half teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon salt. 

This is sufficient for two pies. If the spiced pumpkin 
be used, only the eggs and milk are needed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 171 

Peach and Tapioca Pudding 

One can peaches (No. 23^), one cup tapioca, sugar, four 
ounces butter, mixed ground spice, lemon. 

Cook the tapioca in a double boiler for half an hour, 
using a quart of water. Put the peaches in a pan, sprinkle 
with sugar, the spice, the grated rind of the lemon, and dot 
with butter. Pour the tapioca over the fruit, bake to a 
light brown, and serve with a cream or wine sauce. 

Canned Fruit Ice Cream 

Drain the syrup and sweeten if necessary. This is best 
done by boiling the syrup after the addition of the sugar. 
If desired, it may be concentrated by cooking. When cool, 
add an equal quantity of scalded cream and freeze. To 
scald the cream, place in a double boiler, removing it 
when the water on the outside boils. The drained fruit if 
large may be cut into dice or put through a food chopper, 
using the coarsest knife, then added to the frozen cream 
about an hour before it is to be used, and well mixed. 

Another way is to line the mold with ice cream, fill the 
center with the fruit, or the fruit mixed with whipped cream, 
then cover with the cream, and pack in ice for about two 
hours. 

Pastry Squares 

Roll pastry very thin, cut into four-inch squares, bring the 
points to the center, and press lightly. Bake until browned, 
then put a spoonful of jam in the center, with a spoonful 
of meringue on top, brown lightly in the oven. 

Pastry, Plain 

Two cups flour, four ounces butter, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one cup water. 

Sift the flour and salt, cut in the butter with a knife, 
add the water, a little at a time, setting the portion mixed 
to one side. Save a little of the dry mixture for the board. 
Roll out, then fold and roll a second time. Other shorten- 
ing may be substituted in part for the butter. The flour. 



Digitized by 



Google 



172 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

shortening, and salt may be mixed in large quantities and 
kept dry in the refrigerator, a portion being mixed with 
water when needed. By this means the time taken to make 
a pie is much shortened, besides having the paste very cold 
when the water is added. A preparation of this sort is on 
the market. The preparation of flour and shortening may 
be used for biscuit dough by. sifting in more flour and baking 
powder. 

Tarto 

The pastry as given above may be used to line tart pans, 
pricking the bottom to prevent puffing, and placing in the 
refrigerator for half an hour before baking. When baked, 
they can be filled with jam, or a pur^e made by draining 
canned fruit, passing through a food chopper, seasoning, 
then heating to concentrate slightly. A mound of meringue 
may be placed on top, and is an improvement. 

Baked Dumplings 

One can fruit, pastry. 

The fruit should be drained from the syrup, and the de- 
sired amount placed in the center of a six-inch square of 
pastry. Sugar and spice to taste; then brush white of egg 
on the edge of the pastry, bringing the four points to the 
top. Flute the edges by pinching and twisting, and brush 
the surface with white of egg. A few minutes before taking 
from the oven sprinkle with powdered sugar to form a glaze. 
The syrup may be made into a sauce. The canned fruit 
is really better than the raw for dumplings, as the fruit is 
cooked, and the dumpling can be taken out of the oven 
when the pastry is baked. 

Canned Fruit Short Cake 

Any of the canned fruits may be used instead of raw fruit 
in making shortcakes. Drain the fruit from the syrup, 
and cut it into suitable pieces and sweeten. Use the syrup 
for a sauce by concentrating. Arrowroot may be used to 
thicken, and a teaspoon of wine, kirsch, or maraschino 
added. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 173 

Jam Roly-poly 

One can jam (No. 1), one pound flour, one-half pound suet, 
one egg, one-half pint milk, salt. 

Make a dough of the flour, salt, suet (finely shredded and 
free from skin and fiber), the well -beaten egg, and the milk. 
Roll it into a long strip, a quarter-inch thick and the width 
of the pan to be used. Spread with the jam, which may be 
any kind, begin at one end and roll it so as to hold the jam 
inside, moisten the edges and press together. If a plainer 
dough be desired, the amount of suet may be reduced, and 
baking powder added to lighten the dough. Or six ounces 
of butter or other shortening may be substituted for the 
suet. Canned fruit, as strawberries, raspberries, cherries, 
etc., may be drained and used instead of jam, and sauce 
made from the syrup. 

Raspberry Pur^ 

One can black raspberries, one pint double cream, four 
ounces powdered sugar, vanilla. 

Drain the berries as dry as possible in a sieve, then pass 
through the meat chopper, using the fine cutter. Whip 
the cream dry, add the sugar, and flavor with vanilla. Add 
the puree to the cream, reserving a part of the cream. Serve 
in glass dishes, garnish with piped rosettes of the uncolored 
cream. Any canned fruit may be substituted for the rasp- 
berries. 

Fruit Rosettes 

One can fruit (No. 2), one-half pint double cream, four eggs, 
one-half pint milk, three cups flour, one-half teaspoon salt, 
two tablespoons sugar. 

To make the rosettes, make a batter of the flour, salt, 
and sugar sifted, and the well-beaten eggs, added to the 
milk, then mixed well with the flour. Add more milk if 
necessary. Let the batter stand at least an hour before 
using. Heat the rosette iron in hot fat, dip to half its 
height in the batter, then return to the hot fat and fry 
brown. Place the rosettes on soft paper. When ready to 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

serve, put the fruit in and garnish with whipped cream. 
These are useful for serving small amounts of diflFerent kinds 
of fruit. 

Desserts for Children 

One pint milk, four ounces semolina, five ounces powdered 
sugar, one egg, three whites, salt, fruit. 

Soak the semolina in the milk for a while, then cook 
gently for half an hour, or longer, if cooked in a double 
boiler. While hot add the sugar, salt, egg, and the stiffly 
beaten whites. Pour into individual molds. When cool, 
turn out, and serve with jam, or shredded pineapple, or 
a pur^ made from the fruit drained, and passed through 
a meat chopper. These may be still further varied by 
using small fruits whole, by mixing cream with the puree 
of fruit, or reducing the fruit syrup and using it as a sauce. 

Macaroons and Cream 

Syrup from a can of blackberries, one pint double cream, ten 
macaroons, four ounces powdered sugar, vanilla. 

Whip the cream dry, add sugar and vanilla. Reserve a 
part of the cream for garnish. To the remainder of the 
cream add the macaroons broken into small pieces. Serve 
the macaroon mixture in glass dishes, garnish with rosettes 
of the reserved cream, colored with the blackberry syrup. 

Bavarian Cream with Custard 

One-half pound sugar, seven egg yolks, one pint milk, one- 
half ounce gelatin, one pint cream, one ounce powdered sugar, 
vanilla. 

Beat the sugar and egg yolks until light, add the gelatin, 
previously softened in a half cup of water, then pour on the 
scalding hot milk. Place over a low flame, stirring con- 
stantly, and remove from the fire when the custard has set 
sufficiently to coat the spoon. Strain, and while cooling, 
stir occasionally. While the custard is cooling, the cream 
may be whipped dry, and have the powdered sugar and 
vanilla added. When the custard is about to set, the cream 
is added and the whole well beaten. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 175 

A sauce may be made of the syrup from a can of fruit, 
filtered to remove the particles of fruit, and reduced. If 
necessary, sugar may be added during the reduction. 
Using the custard as a basis, the sauces may be varied by 
using that from different fruits and by adding a few drops 
of kirsch, maraschino, almond, etc. 

Bavarian Cream with Fruit 

One can fruit (No. 2), juice of two lemons, one ounce gelatin, 
one pint cream. 

Make a puree of fruit by passing through the food 
chopper, add the lemon juice, and if necessary, more 
sugar, heat to boiling point. Add the gelatin, previously 
softened in water. Take from the fire and beat thoroughly. 
When cool and about to set, add the stiffly beaten cream. 
Plain cream may be served. 

The fruit Bavarians admit of many variations. If 
specially firm, small fruit be used, the fruit may be served 
whole, reserving some of the finest for garnishing, and 
heating only the syrup from the fruit. After the gelatin is 
added, the juice should be filtered, and when cool, the fruit 
is added, and Hghtly mixed, so as to leave the fruit em- 
bedded in the clear jelly. Then the whipped cream is folded 
in lightly. When specially large, fine fruit is used, as halves 
of apricots, peaches, pears, etc., the jelly may be made 
from the syrup only, and a mound of it placed in the 
hollowed pit of the fruit, with the cream mixed with the 
jelly, or used for garnishing. 

Fruit Ices 

Ices may be made in great variety from the canned 
fruit. The fruit may be made into a puree, if necessary, 
more sugar added, and when the fruit is not sufficiently 
tart, lemon juice. Combinations of different fruits may 
be used to obtain additional flavors. To some of the pre- 
parations, such as pineapple and cherries, a few drops of 
kirsch may be added, and to others, maraschino or other 
suitable cordial. 



Digitized by 



Google 



176 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

Fruit and Ice Cream Dishes 

There are many dishes which may be made of ice cream 
and fruits, which are both attractive in appearance as well 
as being palatable. They are given under the name coupes 
in the recipes retaining the French names, and usually 
named after some public person, so that the names mean 
nothing to one not familiar with hotel or restaurant menus. 
Chantilly cream is often one of the ingredients. This is 
cream beaten dry, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla or 
other essence. These should be served in glasses of 
diflFerent shapes, the kind depending on the particular com- 
bination. A few are given to indicate some of the possi- 
biUties. 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Cherries, Cream 

Partly fill the glass with the ice cream, on this place 
some large pitted cherries drained from the syrup. Cover 
with a mound of Chantilly cream. 

Orange Ice Cream, Grated Pineapple 

Partly fill a tall glass with the orange flavored ice cream, 
fill with rich grated pineapple. If the pineapple is not 
sweet enough as it is in the can, it may have sugar added 
and reheated to blend the sugar, then used when cool. 

Combinations Which May Be Used 

Almond ice cream, peaches, cream. 
Vanilla ice cream, currant jelly, cream. 
Vanilla ice cream, raspberry puree, cream. 
Vanilla ice cream, apricot, cherries in hollow. 
Chocolate ice cream, apricot, cream. 
Pineapple ice cream, apricot, cream. 
Vanilla ice cream, prune puree, cream. 

These may be varied by placing the ice cream vertically 
in the glass with a layer of fruit puree between, and a mound 
of the whipped cream on top, or the fruit puree and the 
cream mixed for the central layer. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 177 

CANNED FRUIT FOR PRESERVES 
AND JAMS 

There are some persons who like to prepare their own 
preserves, jams, and conserves, in order to get some par- 
ticular effect which pleases them. It may be the addition 
of a little vinegar, lemon, geranium leaf, or a different 
proportion of spices. These preparations can be made from 
gallon canned fruits to good advantage. The extra 
standard and standard grades furnish fine stock for pre- 
serves, and the standard for jams and conserves. The 
seconds and water grades may be used for the latter, 
though, as a rule, there is no economy in doing so, and the 
stock is not quite so good. The advantage in using the 
canned stock lies in the fact that waste is eliminated, that 
the work can be done when convenient and in the quantity 
desired, and that there is no necessity for a large number of 
jars. There is the further advantage of always being able 
to blend two or more fruits, irrespective of the times at 
which they mature. The cost of stock is much less in gallon 
cans than in the small ones, and frequently much Jess than 
the cost of the fresh fruit, when the quality is considered. 

The methods of preparing fruit are not clearly differ- 
entiated, in many cases different names being used for the 
same preparation, or one name is used to designate different 
preparations. This is not only true for the later works on 
cookery, but also for the earlier works. The terms by which 
certain preparations are designated should be exact, and 
clearly differentiated, so that the manufacturer, consumer, 
and official should be in accord as to what the term implies. 
At present the only term which seems to be understood as 
indicating definite ingredients and definite treatment is the 
word jelly, but jam, marmalade, conserve, and preserve are 
loosely used, and defined in various ways. 
Preserve 

A preserve is a preparation of fruit or vegetable, with or 
without spices, but with sugar in sufficient quantity to keep 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

without the use of any other agent and without being 
hermetically sealed. The term seems to have been intro- 
duced about 1600, and in the earliest times referred to 
confectioners* preparations of fruits and vegetables. The 
term has been used very loosely, and is applied indis- 
criminately to jam and marmalade, especially when it is 
the desire to take advantage of the better term to merchan- 
dise an inferior article. The real dbtinguishing feature of a 
preserve is that the fruit or vegetable is retained whole or 
in large distinct pieces in a very heavy syrup. When the 
product breaks up or becomes mashed to pieces in the syrup 
it properly becomes a jam. The making of a preserve 
requires greater care in the selection of the kind of fruit 
and its condition, and also takes more time to incorporate 
the proper amount of sugar than in the makmg of jam or 
marmalade. In the makmg of a preserve, it is necessary 
to have the final syrup almost at the point where sugar 
crystals form. The term ** preserved fruits" frequently 
seen upon glass jars containing fruit in syrup (which will 
test 30° to 35° Brix) is misleading. 

In making a preserve from canned stock, the juice is 
drained from the fruit and the latter is put in pans in 
shallow layers, not more than 23^ inches in depth. The 
syrup is concentrated until it has lost about one-fourth its 
volume and then sugar added equal in volume to the water 
which has been evaporated. When the syrup has cooled 
below 180° F., it is poured over the fruit. The following 
day the syrup is drained from the fruit, without disturbing 
the latter any more than is necessary, heated, and about 
one-eighth its volume is evaporated, sugar again being added 
to make up the loss. The syrup is poured over the fruit and 
this procedure is repeated every day for a week or ten days. 
The object is to bring the syrup to the proper strength very 
gradually, otherwise there is shrinkage of the fruit. There 
is a further advantage that much better fruits can be used. 
At the factory the strength of the syrup is increased by 
regular steps, always using a Brix spindle or hydrometer to 
do the testing. When the syrup has reached a point near 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 179 

saturation, the fruit is placed in jars and the hot syrup 
poured over it, and the jars sealed. (The usual pro- 
cedure is to start with a syrup testing about 20** and to 
increase each step by 5°.) 

Conserve 

The term conserve carries nearly the same meaning as 
preserve. It is an older term by about fifty years as it can 
be traced to about 1550. It has been applied indiscrimi- 
nately to all fruits in syrup — preserves, jams, and marma- 
lades.. At the present time its special application is to 
combinations of fruits, or combinations of fruits and nuts, 
in syrup rather than to a single fruit. 

Jam 

A jam is a preparation of fruit and sugar, spiced or not 
spiced, more or less broken up by cooking or grinding, and 
evaporated to a fairly heavy consistency. A jam is the 
simplest preparation which can be made from fruit and 
sugar. The origin of the term, in the culinary sense, is 
somewhat doubtful, but from the beginning there has been 
the idea of bruising or crushing, and since 1730 the term 
has been used in essentially the same sense that it is today. 

There is no real standard for jams, as the proportion of 
sugar may be varied depending upon the sweetness or 
tartness of the fruit, and it may be cooked to produce a 
light or a heavy body. In many of the household recipes 
the sugar and fruit are recommended in equal weights, but 
this method originated before hermetic closure jars were 
easily available, the object being to have the product keep 
under any household condition. This proportion is not 
the best for all products, nor is it so necessary under the 
modern method of packing. 

In making jams from canned stock, the liquid is drained 
from the fruit and boiled until it is reduced to about one- 
half its volume; a quantity of sugar equal to the volume of 
syrup is then added and it is again cooked until it reaches a 
temperature of 217,5** F. (103** C). In the meantime the 



Digitized by 



Google 



180 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

fruit is run through a meat chopper which cuts it into small 
pieces. As the fruit has previously been cooked in the can, 
very little cooking is required to bring it to the required 
consistency after it is added to the hot syrup. The final 
cooking should reach 217.5** F. (103° C.) for many fruits. 
Thus made, the jam will have a lighter color and less of the 
cooked flavor than the regular home-made jam, due to the 
shorter time required in cooking. Fruits which form jelly 
readily will not need to be cooked to as high a degree as 
those which are poor in p>ectins. Some plums give the 
proper consistency at 216.5** F. (102** C), while some other 
fruits require 219** or 221** F. (104** or 105** C). No hard 
rule can be laid down for the amount of sugar, as this de- 
pends upon the tartness of the fruit and the flavor desired. 
The general rule for making jams from fresh fruit and sugar 
is pound for pound, but a lesser proportion of sugar will 
suflfice for the canned, besides permitting a larger amount 
to be eaten since they are less cloying to the taste, and as 
jam is a good food, its consumption is desirable. Jam has 
been given to soldiers to take the place of their allowance of 
meat, and has been found satisfactory in being more palat- 
able and also in providing a proper food value. 

In cooking the liquid before the fruit is added, a bag of 
spice may be added. Any of the ordinary spices may be 
used whole, and held loosely in a cheese-cloth bag. The 
bag can be left in the liquid for a short time when the spices 
are fresh, and used in a second batch for a longer time. 
The syrup should be skimmed carefully and, after the fruit 
is added, stirred only suflficiently to prevent sticking, and 
to loosen the mass to permit the scum to rise. This should 
be removed from time to time as carefully as if jelly were 
being made. Some persons think that because the fruit 
is in the form of jam that it can be stirred continuously. 
The object should be to have the fruit in as nearly a mar- 
malade condition as possible, having a clear appearance. 

With some fruits that lack tartness or much individuality, 
a small quantity of vinegar improves the finished flavor. 
Some of the larger varieties of plums that lack flavor when 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 181 

used alone, are improved by the use of spices and vinegar. 
The vinegar seems to make apparent the latent flavor. 
Many combinations may be used such as: 

1. Peaches, spices, and orange marmalade. 

2. Cherries with currant jelly (the heavy syrup that fails 
to become firm works well). 

3. Raspberries and rhubarb. 

4. Apricots and grated pineapple. 

5. Pineapple slices cut into quarters or points, or the 
pieces, with vinegar and spices. 

Figs cut into half-inch pieces and cooked with a small 
amount of vinegar and spices are a decided improvement 
over the usual lemon preparation. 

Dried prunes which are now canned are exceptionally 
good for jams, and may then be used in souffles as well as 
eaten as jam. The cooking in the closed can conserves their 
flavor to a much greater extent than in the home method 
of stewing. They are usually canned in syrup, so that no 
further sugar is required. Spice may be added and is 
desirable. The prunes have so much body that sometimes 
it is necessary to add liquor, which may be water or any 
fruit juice, and they need only sufficient cooking to blend 
them properly. When spicing is desired, some water may 
be added to the syrup at the start, so as to afford an oppor- 
tunity to cook the liquid with the spices before adding the 
fruit. The small fruit may be used as they are just as good 
and much less expensive than the larger ones. 

A feature in the use of the previously cooked fruit is 
that the cooking has destroyed the life of the tissue so that 
there is no resistance offered by the cells to the entrance of 
the sugar, consequently no shrinking or toughening occurs. 
In using the raw fruit in syrup, the stronger solution on the 
outside draws the water from the cells of the tissue so as 
to bring about an equalization of the densities, and with 
the withdrawal there is a shrinking of the cells and a conse- 
quent toughening. This feature is more readily noted in 
larger pieces than in the small pieces left after the grinding, 
and is the reason that orange, lemon, and grape fruit rinds 



Digitized by 



Google 



182 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

are cooked in water first, when used for marmalade. The 
shrinking is eliminated when the cooked fruit is used. 

Butter 

A fruit butter differs from a jam in being cooked and 
stirred or run through a sieve to give a smoother body; it 
has a thinner consistency and a lesser quantity of sugar. 

Compote 

Compote is a form of fruit preparation which has come 
from the French, and is of later origin than the other terms, 
dating from about 1700. The term is used to designate a 
fruit stewed in sugar, and usually so cooked as to preserve 
its form. Like the other terms it has been used for both the 
single fruits and mixtures, and also for fruits that have been 
broken into a jam-like structure. Less sugar is used than 
in preserves and jams, as compotes are consumed in a short 
time. 

Marmalade 

A marmalade is a form of preserve made by boiling fruits 
possessed of jellying properties with sugar, the whole fruit 
or pieces being suspended in the jelly. This is an old culi- 
nary term dating to about 1500, and like the others it has 
been applied to jams and preserves as well as to its dis- 
tinctive type. The original marmalade stock seems to have 
been the quince, though the tendency in recent years has 
been to make the term apply to a product from citrus 
fruits, of which the rind cut into thin slices or pieces is a 
part. Li Europe the Seville orange is used almost exclu- 
sively, and is imported for making marmalade into this 
country. It imparts a different flavor from that of our 
domestic orange. Lemons, limes, and grapefruit are also 
used as well as combinations of these fruits with bitter and 
sweet oranges. 

The term marmalade is also used in preparations made 
from berries in which the juice is first made into a jelly and 
at the completion of the cooking, the whole fruit added. 
Compound marmalades are also made by making a jelly 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 183 

of the juice of one fruit, like orange or apple, and then 
adding the other fruit. 

In the preparation of any fruit a thermometer should be 
used, as otherwise there is no certainty as to the result. 
The length of time that a jam, jelly, or other preparation 
should be cooked cannot be given even approximately, 
because the time depends mainly on the intensity of the 
heat applied, and secondarily on the volume that is being 
cooked and the amount of surface exposed for evaporation. 
A certain amount of moisture has to be driven off, and fruits 
vary in their moisture content; after the moisture is driven 
off, there is a further cooking necessary to obtain the desired 
consistency. Where it is desired to retain the natural 
flavor and color, the more quickly the cooking is done the 
better. In the making of jam, however, there is so much 
risk of burning where the direct fire is used that it is safer 
to cook more slowly. In using a thermometer, the vexed 
question of time does not enter; when a certain degree of 
heat is reached, the consistency will necessarily follow. 
It simplifies the process materially, as it is reduced to the 
reading of the thermometer. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The works cited have been selected from the many works 
on gastronomy for their suggestive value and in some instances 
broader view, though the ordinary cook-book may be more 
often consulted in the daily routine. The older works are 
illuminating in their descriptions and illustrations of both the 
processes and the utensils used in the development of present 
methods and equipments. Gastronomy may be very fascinat- 
ing when its history, literature, esthetics, and principles are 
considered, or may be uninteresting when limited to the mere 
consideration of balanced rations, based on the carbohydrate, 
fat, and protein content. 

A reprint of "A Proper Newe Booke of Cokerye," owned by 
Matthew Parker, Archbishop of Canterbury, 1574; edited by 
Catherine Frances Frere, 1913. 



Digitized by 



Google 



184 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

The New Art of Cookery, Richard Briggs, 1792. 

The Art of Cookery, Mrs. Glasse, 1799. 

The Cook's Oracle, Dr. Wm. Kitchiner, 1822. 

Rational Cookery, 1830. 

Traite de FOffice, M. Etienne, 1847. 

Modern Cookery, Eliza Acton, 1857. 

The Practical Housekeeper, Mrs. E. F. Ellet, 1857. 

Cuisine Classique, Urbain Dubois, 1874. 

Old Cookery Books and Ancient Cuisine, W. Carew Hazlitt, 
1882. 

A Hand Book of Gastronomy, 1884. Translation of Physi- 
ologic du Gout by Brillat Savarin; preface by C. Monselet. 

Manual and Recipes of Baron Brisse, Mrs. Matthew Clark, 
1888. 

The Majestic Family Cook-Book, Adolph Gallier, 1897. 

Preservation of Fishery Products, Charles H. Stevenson; 
U. S. Fish Com. Bui., 1898, 335-563. 

Canning and Preserving, Arthur L. Hunt; Twelfth Census of 
the United States, Manufactures, Vol. 9, part 3, 1900, pp. 
463-514. The article is historical. 

The Pleasures of the Table, G. H. EUwanger, 1902. 

The Book of Herbs, Lady Rosalind Northcote, 1903. 

The Creole Cook- Book, New Orleans Picayune. 

Commercial Canning, A. W. Bitting; Buls. 151, 196, Bu. 
of Chem., Dept. of Agr. 

A Selection of Dishes and the Chef's Reminder, Charles 
Fellows, 1909. A valuable pocket manual. 

Cassell's New Dictionary of Cooking, 1909. 

L'Art Culinaire, Victor Hirtzler, 1910. 

Manual for Army Cooks, 1910. The recipes require large 
quantities, but may be reduced readily. The book is excep- 
tionally good and suggestive. 

The Grocer's Encyclopedia, Artemas Ward, 1911. 

A Guide to Modern Cookery, A. Escoffier, 1913. 

Food and Flavor, Henry T. Finck, 1913. 

The Belgian Cook-Book, Mrs. Brian Luck, 1915. 

The Epicurean, Charles Ranhofer, 1916. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 185 

APPENDIX 

FOOD POISONING 

It is frequently alleged that illness has been produced by 
the use of canned foods, and it is therefore apropos to 
present a brief review of what constitutes food poisoning. 
As canned foods are not generally eaten alone, it is necessary 
to consider the subject rather broadly and to indicate the 
relation that each kind may bear to cases of illness. 

1. Illness may result from eating certain foods as a 
matter of personal idiosyncrasy, or special susceptibility. 
Some persons may be made ill from eating certain things 
which thousands of others eat every day with no unfavor- 
able results. For example, some persons develop rash after 
eating strawberries, and others are similarly affected after 
eating buckwheat cakes. Many persons who live in the 
interior, and go to the seashore, are made ill by eating sea- 
food, as lobster, crab, or shell fish. The illness may be 
slight and transitory or it may be quite severe. The 
symptoms may vary from a mild rash, or "hives," to a 
severe intestinal irritation. The illness is not due to a 
definite poisonous principle, but to some peculiar individual 
susceptibility. With some persons it occurs only once, while 
with others it seems to recur and to become more severe 
each time the offending food is taken. There seems to be 
evidence that with some persons the use of certain canned 
food has the same effect as the same food freshly prepared. 

2. Food may become infected with a poison during its 
development, as ergot, occurring in rye. As far as known, 
however, no poisoning of this character results from the use 
of any canned food. 

3. Illness from the use of diseased meats and milk. It 
is well established that there is danger from the use of 
meats from animals affected with certain diseases, like 
trichina and tuberculosis. A greater danger, however, 
is from the use of meats from animals infected with 



Digitized by 



Google 



186 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

septic or pus-forming diseases. The danger from the 
use of meat from diseased animals is greatest when it is 
only partly cured or insuflficiently cooked, as in hams, dried 
beef, mild-cured sausages, etc. There are people, especially 
among the Germans, who are rather fond of such meat, and 
they are the most frequent victims of disorders of this 
character. Milk from diseased animals is even more dan- 
gerous than the meat, and, furthermore, owing to the ease 
of outside infection, this product may also become the car- 
rier of typhoid, scarlet fever, diphtheria, etc. In commer- 
cial canning the meats and evaporated milk are subjected 
to a temperature of 230** to 250** F., which no pathogenic 
organism can stand, and therefore the dahger of direct 
infection is eliminated. Condensed milk is not given such 
a high temperature, but is heated to, or near, the boiling 
point and for a longer time than is practised in pasteuriza- 
tion. The safety measure in this last product, therefore, 
exceeds the requirements of health officials for fresh milk. 

4. It is believed that illness may result from poisonous 
products formed in the body as a result of disease. The 
evidence upjon this point is more or less contradictory, 
but the effect of high temperatiu*e is to break up such 
complex compounds and to give a greater protection than 
in the ordinary cooking. No defense can be offered for 
the use of meat or milk from any diseased animal, but if, 
perchance, such meat or milk should pass inspection, the 
operation of canning affords the maximum protection. 

5. Poisoning may result from some forms of decom- 
position, especially in meats, fish, and milk. For a time 
this was thought to be due to a product produced by 
certain organisms, but there are some investigators who 
hold that these products are formed in certain stages of 
decomposition, and are not dependent upon particular 
species of organisms. The poisonous substance in such 
cases acts like a powerful chemical and in some instances 
can be separated as an alkaloidal body. This is known 
as ptomaine poisoning. 

It is well known that poisoning does not result from the 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 187 

use of all decomposed meats or other foods. Some game 
and chilled meats are purposely held until they show 
marked evidence of decompjosition, and in fact are not 
considered prime until they are "ripe." Some persons bury 
fish until it is in such an advanced state of decomposition 
that the fins come away on moderate pulling. Sour milk 
and cheese are due to the action of organisms, but ordi- 
narily are consumed with impunity. At times, however, 
violent illness and death will result from the use of meat, 
milk, and fish that show none of the usual evidence of 
decomposition, or at least that of an objectionable 
character. This most frequently results from foods 
prepared as salads, or foods held at a low temperature in 
an ice box for several days. It seems probable that 
poisoning may result from the use of canned foods as well 
as the freshly prepared if held under the same conditions 
and if infected with the same kind of organisms. It is, 
therefore, not a question of whether the stock be canned 
or not canned, but of the kind of infection after it is 
prepared and held for consumption. It is well established 
by the campaigns in cities for better milk for babies 
that marked advantage has followed the use of pasteurized 
milk over raw milk and that the advantage has been due 
to the destruction of objectionable bacteria which cause 
intestinal diseases. If the diseases in the children had 
been due to toxins or poisons formed by decompjosition the 
good results would scarcely have followed as they would 
not have been broken up at the low temperature of pas- 
teurization. Spoilage in canned foods may result from 
under processing, or from a leak in the container, and all 
such foods should be alsolutely discarded. 

There is some question as to whether ptomaine poison- 
ing can result from the use of material which has undergone 
decomposition before canning and the toxin remain active 
in the food. The toxins and similar biological products, are 
broken up by heat, especially at the temperatures that are 
used in the processing of meat, milk, and fish. 

Ptomaine poisoning has been alleged as the result of 



Digitized by 



Google 



188 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

using every class of canned foods, but it is doubtful whether 
ptomaines can occur in many fruits and most of the 
vegetables. This form of toxin is either produced by 
organisms which require a highly nitrogenous medium 
upon which to grow, or by the decomposition of nitro- 
genous matter. The fruits and most vegetables do not 
furnish sufficient protein, and the relatively high acidity 
of the fruits is also probably inimical to this form of 
decomposition. 

6. Illness of the types known as botulism, paratyphoid, 
typhoid, etc., has been ascribed to canned foods. Botulism 
is a disease known as meat poisoning and has been known 
for a long time, especially in the sausage-eating districts of 
Europe. This form of illness differs from ptomaine poison- 
ing in that it is due to the ingestion of very large nimibers of 
virulent organisms along with whatever toxin may have 
been formed in the food. In ptomaine poisoning, the effect 
is that of a rapidly acting chemical, primarily affecting the 
nerve centers. In botulism there is the combined effect of 
a poison and of organisms, which is slower and more pro- 
longed. The conditions giving rise to this form of illness 
are usually the eating of uncooked meat, and also like 
those in ptomaine poisoning, the mixing of meats with 
celery, watercress, lettuce, etc., which may have been 
grown upon sewage polluted ground, or become infected 
subsequently in handling. The use of raw vegetables alone, 
or if cooked, might have resulted in no harm, but by bring- 
ing them in contact with meat or fish for a time, these act 
as culture media to increase the numbers and virulence of 
the organisms. The canned food receives the blame, 
though it may have contributed only indirectly to an 
unfortunate result. 

7. Illness has been charged to the use of spoiled foods. 
As spoilage is nearly always manifested by swelling of the 
can, foreign odor, unpleasant taste, some discoloration, etc., 
there is little excuse for using something unwholesome 
through error. The same injunction applies alike to 
canned and fresh foods, not to use anything which has 
spoiled or which is of doubtful character. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS 189 

8. Poisoning from acid, solder, and tin. If there ever 
were a real basis for believing that poisoning arose from 
these sources, there is only remote ground for that at pres- 
ent. When solder is used at present, it is only upon the 
outside of the can and the total quantity used is small 
compared with early methods. The only flux to which 
objection has been made is chloride of zinc, and this has 
been largely superseded by other material. When chloride 
of zinc is used, the quantity required to solder the entire 
can is many times less than the minimum medicinal dose. 
The tin occurring in the canned foods results from the 
action of the food upon the container, and is the same as 
that which occurs in the use of any tin vessel used in 
cooking. The recent researches upon the poisonous effect 
of tin do not bear out the claims made by the early investi- 
gators, as the form in which it occurs in the canned food is 
such that it cannot be assimilated. 

9. Decreased nutritive value through the destruction of 
vitamines. Researches in this direction are of very recent 
origin and while it seems to be shown very conclusively 
that foods do contain very minute quantities of a substance 
designated as vitamine, that the quantity which is obtained 
in a mixed diet is far in excess of the body demands. 
Whatever criticism is made upon canned foods, applies 
with equal force to all cooked foods, and since no one would 
advocate all canned or all cooked foods in any normal diet, 
this criticism is not of much force. 

10. Illness produced by the breaking up of protein com- 
pounds. It has been demonstrated that when protein 
bodies are subjected to a high temperature, they break up 
or split into different compounds and that one part of this 
split proteid is very toxic if injected into the body. As 
long as the food is taken by way of the alimentary tract, 
poisoning does not result. The heating used in canning 
is not greater than that used in the regular home prepara- 
tion of foods, in boiling, roasting, and baking, and food is 
rarely taken into the system except in a normal manner, 
so that while the scientific observations upon splitting of 
proteids is true, it is a wrong assumption to make that 



Digitized by 



Google 



190 COMMERCIAL CANNING AND 

poisoning may follow the use of canned foods any more than 
from the use of other cooked food. 

11. Food intoxication. When foods which are very rich 
in an easily digested substance like sugar are taken in large 
quantity, a form of intoxication may result. The nasty 
headache which comes after slowly eating a half poimd or 
more of chocolates during an afternoon or evening, and not 
taking exercise, is probably a typical example of such sur- 
charging of the system. Some canned foods are very rich 
in sugar and might give the same result, but this should be 
charged to indiscretion in eating and not to the food 
material. 

12. Illness from mixtures. While a normal body should 
be able to digest almost any combination of foods, it is 
not accomplished with ease, and if the digestion processes 
are below par, due to illness, overwork, fatigue, or mental 
depression, more or less trouble may result. Fermentation 
is a common disturbance, acute indigestion and inflamma- 
tion of the alimentary tract are not infrequent. It is 
probable that most troubles arise from such causes, and 
it is just as prone to occur with one class of foods as another 
and is absolutely independent of any poisonous property in 
any one of them. 

The symptoms of the various kinds of food poisoning are 
not distinctive, but are easily confused with other forms of 
illness. The diagnosis of isolated cases, so as to be able to 
state with a fair degree of certainty that a given case of 
illness is due to poisoning from some particular food, 
requires careful work and much more study than is usually 
given in the routine practice of medicine. If a number of 
cases occur, as at a banquet or other large function, the 
problem becomes somewhat simplified. In all outbreaks, 
the use of laboratory methods becomes necessary to make 
a proper diagnosis. It is not the desire of the writer to 
convey the impression that canned foods are blameless for 
some troubles, but owing to the methods of preparation 
and the impossibility of contamination while in the package, 
they present a minimum source of danger. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOW TO USE CANNED FOODS. 



191 





J/^T^' 



Grand Prize — Panama-Pacific Int^national Exposition. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



^ 






rV'-. 



Digitized by 



•■■^I:i 



Google 



I 



