Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



MANUAL FOE THE 

ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



COMPRISING THE MOST MODERN METHODS FOR MAKING ALL KINDS OF 
ESSENCES FOR LIQUORS, BRANDIES, LIQUEURS, AND ALL ALCOHOLIC 
DRINKS, FRUIT-JUICES, FRUIT-WINES, AND JAMS. ALSO, MANU- 
FACTURING MINERAL WATERS; ESSENCES OF FRUITS AND 
OTHER VEGETABLE RAW MATERIALS; FANCY LEMONADES 
OF EVERY KIND; E8SENCES FOR CONFECTIONERY, 
PASTRY, AND THE KITCHEN; MANUFACTURING 
COLORS AND PERFUMES, AS WELL AS COS- 
METICS AND SOAP PERFUMES WITH 
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF RAW 
MATERIALS AND OF LAB- 
ORATORY PRACTICE 



BY 

ERICH WALTER 

Specialist in the Beverage Industry 



STANFORD UdkA.uu 



FIRST EDITION 

FIRST THOUSAND 



NEW YORK 

JOHN WILEY & SONS, Inc. 

London: CHAPMAN & IIALL, Limited 

1916 




• \ 

I 

I l 



/ -f i\ 



COPYBIQHT, 1916, 
BT 

JOHN WILEY & SONS, Inc. 






\ 



» • _» 



Stmbopc $rcM 

F. H.GILSOH COMPANY 
BOSTON, U.S.A. 



CONTENTS 

PART PAGE 

I. The Taste, and . the Transfer op Flavor to Foods 

and Beverages * 1,3 

II. The Raw Materials Yielding the Different Tastes. . 13, 15 

III. Laboratory Practice 45, 47 

IV. Non-alcoholic Beverages (Mineral Waters, Fruit 

Juices and Essences for Effervescent Lemonades; 

with a Supplement on Jams and Fruit- Wines) 107, 111 

V. The Manufacture of Liquors, Liqueurs, Spirits, and 

other Alcoholic Beverages 203, 21 1 

VI. Confectionery, Bakery and Culinary Essences 295, 303 

VII. Coloring Matters for Foods and Drinks 353, 355 

VIII. Cosmetic Essences (Perfumery, Cosmetics and Soap 

Perfumes) 365, 371 

INDEX. .' 407 



II! 



PART I 

THE TASTE, AND THE TRANSFER OF FLAVOR TO 

FOODS AND BEVERAGES 

The Function of the Taste. 

The Kinds of Tastes. 

The Harmony of the Tastes. 

The Transfer of Flavors. 

Originals, Surrogates, Imitations, and Fortifiers of the Flavors. 

Alteration of the Taste by Chemical or Physical Means. 



MANUAL FOR THE E^SE>V£ 

INDUSTRY 



The taste is oat *£ znr ±i» usiaR. uul mwp-^r iuhlt rim.- 
vated, it is the mass ^tnggrwr it -aen. uL ~r z uli*-: -.: -jm «3±s* 
of smelL Both tibe mat joi£ susl ir* iht- ^ ~*nrvziji* aiis-i 
by ethereal vibratUBS- t«3 Tacflft yf *mt£L ur* sn.rvr urn uSt^: 
the nervous system \*&fjc*: Out ihnun ia*iwnir ~-h*£l s :i:?*5r^L. 
while the taste requires vut amnufdiuv: frjinj***: if iih sir.ipuzi;* 
with the tongue. 

Flavor is of great vtz*x\&z& v. uraELS. Lhnni^i rr uls ii: 
direct influence on the ^-rmrr* xij^ -j? •it ::o:s. I: if :«n l 
valuable aid to make tbsi tc^T"*.:** tiii r^ ±r^ s»:*ii:g if di- 
rected to the nerves at we vatarat- Tbe* z*tt~* i?* t^tt szc^- 
tive to agreeable or dkag7€ea.vj£ ibsie*. izsi 'i^ se^kTLTfceas 
affects the nerves which exerfc :b~ icw^n* ±zti f^±=:-ils:«f :be 
activity of the stomach. A bad ~-&sr.* is r^piisTr :.: :be no—vh. 
On the other hand, a stimulating efeur: oc :br iizes::-re fun^ior.s 
is most valuable. 

The taste is not itself a substance, but is a special property of 
substances, to a certain extent a phenomenon of energy nxvenised 
by our nerves, and it is for this reason that it is possible to transfer 
the taste, or flavors, to our foods and beverages. The flavoring 
properties of the raw materials of whatever kind, and in conven- 
ient form, can thus be transferred to the various foods intonded 
for our nourishment or enjoyment, and this is the chief object of 

the essence industry. 

3 






» • • 
♦ • • • 



MANU££*fK)&7rfiE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



• • 



. •. THE KINDS OF TASTES 

•r.^r9t"*and foremost, four main kinds of tastes are to be dis- 

* # 4 

-•tinguished. These are the sweet, sour, bitter and salt tastes. 
Their strength and intensity are dependent upon concentration 
or purity, and are influenced by a certain class of aromatic flavors, 
which are directly the opposite of the above standard kinds of 
tastes. The aromatic taste is derived from vegetable substances, 
and varies with the different kinds of materials. It usually 
accompanies the other tastes, and modifies them. 

With the exception of saccharin, the sweet taste is due to sugar, 
usually cane sugar, as only in certain cases is dextrose (starch 
sugar) used, and then only for the sake of cheapness. Fruit 
sugar, as invert sugar, beside dextrose, is a constituent of fruits, 
and imparts to them their sweetness. This fruit, or invert, sugar, 
however, has nothing whatever to do with the special flavor of 
the fruits, the flavor depending upon the aromatic substances 
peculiar to the various fruits. 

The sour taste is due to acids. The inorganic acids are the 
stronger, but because of their toxicity they are unsuitable for use 
in foods. The acid most employed for kitchen purposes is acetic 
acid in the form of vinegar, while for refreshing beverages there 
are used the so-called fruit acids, as citric and tartaric acids, 
which are prepared by chemical treatment of the natural acid 
constituents of lemon juice and grape juice. While the sweet 
taste is generally designated as agreeable, the sour taste is limited 
in employment, and is very often agreeable only when modified 
by sweet additions. In general the sour taste is refreshing, as in 
salads and lemonades. It relieves the thirst, and when sugar is 
added, the absorbability of the acids is increased. 

The salty taste is necessary for foods, but scarcely so for bever- 
ages. The addition of table salt completes the daily intake of 
the various salts or nutrient salts contained in all vegetables, 
fruits and water. Table salt increases the palatability of foods, 
and replaces that daily eliminated from the system. Besides 
table salt, various inorganic salts are ingested in the form of 
natural or artificial mineral waters, and their effect is to regulate 
the gastric and intestinal functions. 

The bitter taste is, regarding its stimulating effect, similar to 
that of the aromatic substances, which it accompanies very often. 
Purely bitter substances, however, have a decidedly disagreeable 



THE TASTE AND THE "nUX=fefcJi IF Jl-£~g. 



taste, although they strongly excise *aie acot^tv?. -vnsr^Ty -_nrr 
increase the amount of food coneumeti irftf rnini:r^ 01^0:11 
through habituation to their use. aowppy -just -25**r: zl&7 :•? 
lost. The action of bitter ssheuasx& s €3sr>**: inly -v^h^. -z* 
stomach is digesting food, and aasor* sapr ^ -j^uiJy i*u:e: - : 
such bitters to make them more AC^irrnaii*. S^elt ^ loin-i ^i 
this case not only as a oorrigent. *zxn ii=c :"jT *lht pi;r:o-e :c lz :r> 
ing an object for the gastric nmracc 

Sugar is used in foods and beverMK 3t:-c .fily v. r^fer :inci 
palatable, or as a taste comgent. bm becaM^e h ^ e~*>^LH-: i.~ i 
nutritive factor. Sugar is often -2=eii :.> !t-_T~r i i^?j^a.""*Jr 
taste or improve it. In beverages h i= -js^aIj :irr idy x-— r" Jr^.: 
of nutrient value, and is besides ad&pce»i ;o r_n -li:* -irr irrrv^ 
of digestion. 

Quite different from the above-nacM*i :Vir r-aJiiiri :;.Te* i«= 
the aromatic taste. While the aboT«5«::k-:>*i -^-r^ ir^. :o * 
certain extent, fundamental in character. -L-- irv:^*.; ;• :^-r>- i-* 
exceedingly varied in character. Being wiri-y-: ir.-ieper.df-r.t 
individuality, it leans usually on one or another of tie other tastes 
mentioned, and thereby effects changes in the err. ire character of 
the taste. The aromatic taste must further be differentiated into 
extractive and volatile flavors. Although the number of chemical 
elements concerned in the composition of these aromatic sub-tances 
is rather limited, the variety of such substances is almost inexhaust- 
ible, and they are derived from the vegetable, and. to a much less 
extent, from the animal, world. 

The extractives are originally present in solution in the cell sap, 
from which they are obtained by the process of extraction; they 
are not volatile, and hence remain behind when the solvents em- 
ployed are evaporated off. Such aromatic extractives are widely 
distributed in the vegetable kingdom, but their taste is so closely 
allied to that of the purely bitter principles that a difference is 
often hardly noticeable. The volatile aromatics, on the other 
hand, have a far wider field of usefulness. It was customary to 
believe that these were derived from the volatile oils, which con- 
stituted waste products of the plant growth and food assimilation. 
Strictly speaking, it is not the volatile oils, but their active con- 
stituents, to which the flavors are due. Some of them are present 
in the plant in large quantity, while many may be obtained in the 
form of volatile oils, even though these are not the bearers of 1 ho 



6 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

taste itself, because they are accompanied by various volatile 
substances as terpenes, etc., which lack the odor or taste of the 
raw materials, and which can be removed. In many other cases, 
certain plant products, e.g., from certain fruits, possess a very 
strong odor and taste, even though the carriers of these cannot be 
isolated as is done with the volatile oils. In such cases the only 
recourse is to transfer the taste to another medium. This is 
effected in the essence industry either by extraction with alcohol, 
usually by distillation, or less frequently by shaking out with 
other volatile media. By distillation of the raw material, the 
flavoring substance is obtained in purer form, and in any concen- 
tration desired, because free from any extractive matter. In 
many cases the character and composition of flavors which can- 
not be isolated in pure form are unknown, and even in the better 
known cases the aromatic substances are accompanied by some 
unknown peculiar substances, which, though lacking the charac- 
teristic aroma, exercise a valuable influence on the fine quality of 
the taste or bouquet. 

The effect of aromatic substances is always stimulating. A 
large number of them are used as spices in the household, while 
others are used only for alcoholic beverages, and the most delicate 
flavors, particularly of fruits, are preferred as flavors in the manu- 
facture of lemonades. The stimulating effect is first exerted on 
the nerves of the tongue, although the odor may already have 
agreeably excited the appetite. These properties are transferred 
to foods and beverages in order that they may increase the appetite 
and help the digestion. 

THE HARMONY OF THE TASTE 

In general the flavors are necessary companions of foods, etc., 
although they have nothing to do with nutrition itself, or at most 
only render foods enjoyable to the taste and stimulate digestion. 
They make the food or beverage pleasant and agreeable, and are 
hencte worth careful consideration. We know that not every taste 
is agreeable, and there are many which are nauseous and disagree- 
able. Of course these are not in question. But every person 
possesses an individual taste, and it is difficult to satisfy everyone. 
The human taste is very sensitive to a disagreeable, or "false," 
taste, and it is the first task to avoid this. 

As in music or painting, various but distinct tones are to be 



THE TASTE AND THE TRANSFER OF FLAVOR 4 

distinguished, which, mixed with other tones or colors, afford new- 
tones or colors, but not afl are adapted to afford harmonic tones 
or complemental colors. Harmony requires adherence to certain 
rules which, if disregarded, lead to dissonances to which even the 
jinmiigira] will object. Although such rules regarding the taste 
are not quite so pronounced, nevertheless they exist, and over 
them the tongue alone is the judge. 

We speak of a so-called leading taste, when a certain taste pre- 
dominates, although other flavors present vary the taste. On the 
other hand the general taste is one where the constituents afford a 
conglomerate flavor wherein no one in particular predominates. 
This harmonious blending imparts a "full" taste, which is gener- 
ally agreeable. A most serious fault is the presence of a false 
taste in any composition, t.e., the employment of improper flavor- 
ing substances, and the manufacturer should take particular care 
that compounds do not differ in taste from that to what the public 
is accustomed in this regard. The flavor must always correspond 
to what people imagine regarding such flavor. 

THE TRANSFER OF TASTE TO OTHER GOODS 

Most of our flavors are derived from the vegetable kingdom, 
and they are most pronounced in fresh plants or their parts. Usu- 
ally they exist ready formed in the plants, and only rarely are they 
formed afterwards, as volatile mustard oil or almond oil. 

There may also be a mechanical transfer, as where the vegetable 
products are added in their proper form to foods, as when spices 
are used, or sugar for sweetening, or vinegar for acidulating, or 
fruit acids for lemonades. This is also the case when natural 
products are used, as fruit juices, or fermentation products, as 
wine or alcohol; and when such products are added to foods or 
beverages to impart a certain taste, it is merely a mechanical 
transfer. 

The extractive taste is derived largely from plant juices, from 
which it is extracted by suitable means. When extracted, by any 
way, as by means of water or alcohol, the substances formerly 
dissolved in the natural plant juice are again dissolved, and when 
the solvent is evaporated, the non-volatile part remains, tho 
residual extract then containing various substances such as nutri- 
tive salts, certain acids, coloring matters, sugars and more or Iomh 
bitter principles. The fact that extractives are not volatile, per- 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

mita their isolation and concentration by extraction methods 
alone. 

On the other hand, in the concentration of such preparations as 
fruit juices, only an evaporation is required to remove the water 
present. The result is also an extract. Of the extractives present 
in each case there are some which arc of little importance, and some 
which may be even directly objectionable. It is hence important 
to separate the less necessary substances, and to isolate as far as 
possible the useful. This is effected by a choice of the proper 
solvent. As most of the flavors suitable for our use are soluble 
easily in alcohol, the latter is mainly used as a solvent, and in 
varying concentration according to the character of the substance 
to be treated. However, the concentration of such extracts is 
limited according to the amount of total extractives capable of 
being dissolved, and the solubility of the individual substances. 
In some cases the carrier of the taste can be isolated, as for in- 
stance alkaloids, such as quinine, but for purposes of foods and 
beverages such isolations are seldom required, because the taste 
is not dependent upon such constituents alone, but is rendered 
more agreeable by other accompanying substances. Further, 
pungent aromatic substances, such as capsicum, ginger, galanga 
root and others, are also extractive in character. Most spices, 
too, even though their aromatic principle is of volatile character, 
contain valuable extractives which enhance the spice value, and 
this is the reason why spices are used in substance, and not as an 
essence, even though they could be replaced by the appropriate 
volatile oil. Most of the extractives are accompanied by aromatic 
constituents, such as volatile oils, but as well suited as the latter 
would be, the extractives are far better because they are the bearer 
of the total valuable effects. 

The volatile aromatics are more or less volatile oils or similar 
compounds having the constitution of esters, alcohols, aldehydes, 
etc. These aromatics are all volatile, and can be separated by 
distillation, or transferred to any suitable medium, such as alco- 
hol. On distillation with steam, the aromatic substances, in spite 
of their higher boiling-points, are mechanically carried over with 
the steam, and as they are not soluble in this medium, they sepa- 
rate when the steam is condensed. If alcohol is employed, the 
vapor of the aromatic is also mixed with the alcohol vapor, but as 
essential oils are soluble, at least partly, in alcohol, the result will 



THE TASTE AND THE TRANSFER OF FLAVOR 9 

be a transfer of the flavor to the alcohol. This is particularly the 
case when only traces of flavor are present, as in fruits, when the 
volatile matter cannot be isolated like the volatile oils. 

The volatile oils are direct flavors, and not transfers as in the 
above sense. When the flavor is mixed with other substances, as 
alcohol, a transfer of the flavor takes place. The character of the 
volatile flavors is such that they can be separated from their raw 
materials, and free from extractives, and that they can be trans- 
ferred without loss to yield their taste to any preparation, such as 
alcohol, beverages of all kinds, confections, and foods of every sort. 

The medium for transferring flavors is called in general "es- 
sence." This word is derived from the Latin "esse," to be, i.e., 
it is, or will be, the essential part of something. In the former 
case the term "essence" refers to the source; in the latter, the 
purpose for which it is used. Sometimes both interpretations 
agree, as for instance a raspberry essence will be made from rasp- 
berry fruit and is to be employed for imparting a raspberry taste 
or flavor to any substance. However, many essences l>ear the 
name only of the product which is to be made, and the essence, 
which may be synthetically made, bears no relation whatever to 
the natural fruit product, as for instance in the case of artificial 
raspberry essence; then again, rum essence is not made from rum, 
although it is employed for making rum-like substitutes. 

Volatile oils possess the advantage of higher concentration, but 
essences, which are distilled with alcohol, possess the advantage 
of finer taste, because the heat often impairs the fine flavor of 
volatile oils, while the terpenes, as regular constituents of volatile 
oils, are most objectionable as they cause cloudiness because of 
their poor solubility in weak alcohols. The terpenes are not at 
all bearers of any specific, valuable taste, and are therefore 
worthless. It is possible to remove them, with the result that 
terpeneless oils are obtained. These may be regarded as the real 
essential constituents of the common volatile oils, but such con- 
centrations are isolations, and have nothing to do with the prin- 
ciples covering the manufacture and use of essences. 

The flavor of some flowers, and particularly of nearly all fruits, 
except the citrus fruits, is very delicate, and is not suited for iso- 
lation in pure form. Every fruit essence is only a diluted transfer 
of the volatile flavor of fruits to alcohol. Even in the highest 
concentration, as for instance in the so-called fruit flavor oils, 



10 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

the flavor is only an extractive substance, exact knowledge of its 
contents being lacking. 

However, these strong concentrations of fruit flavors are also 
usually diluted for taste purposes, to form essences of one kind or 
another. 

The essences of the trade are all concentrations of the flavors of 
vegetable substances, however manufactured, and their manu- 
facture is in every case dependent upon their future use. 

ORIGINALS, SURROGATES AND IMPROVERS OF THE TASTE 

When any flavor is transferred in any manner from raw materials 
to an essence, and is destined to afford the flavor without the aid 
of any other preparation or substitute, the product is said to be an 
original one. When, instead of genuine raw materials, any other 
substance is substituted, or any such is employed in conjunction 
with it, the result will be a surrogate. This term, however, gives 
rise to certain inconsistencies. Thus, supposing a flavor has been 
found to be due to woodruff; it will be quite immaterial whether 
woodruff or tonka beans are used, as both contain as the flavoring 
substance cumarin. The same is the case when the flavors are 
manufactured artificially and when their chemical constitution 
is the same as that of the natural flavors, e.g., vanillin or cumarin, 
in which case the artificial substance is not a surrogate at all. It is 
also incorrect to say that any fruit essence made from fruit residues 
alone is a surrogate as compared with one made from the whole 
fruit. The aroma is widely distributed through all parts of the 
fruit, and it is therefore immaterial from what part of the fruit 
the flavor is isolated as an essence. A preparation made from 
residues is not in every case a surrogate. It would be one if, for 
instance, genuine brandy were obtained from other than the usual 
materials. Wine brandy cannot be manufactured from wine 
lees; and saccharin employed besides sugar would be a surrogate. 
In most cases any surrogate would be a misbranding, and would 
therefore not be allowed. 

On the other hand imitations are often to be found. Of course 
any imitation must be declared so that the public at all times is 
able to distinguish between the originals and imitations. The 
latter are usually cheaper, but not always. On the other hand, 
substitutes are to be differentiated from imitations, as, for instance, 
artificial lemonades made from essences, which, though they copy 



THE TASTE AND THE TRANSFER OF FLAVOR . 11 

the natural lemonades, are free from their faults. An imitation is 
intended to resemble the original, while made by processes free 
from the technical difficulties involved in making the original, as, 
for instance, using artificial substances to make artificial rum. 

In the beverage industry, the art of refining plays an important 
role, for instance, when genuine products receive additions which 
improve the taste but without in any way covering it. Typages 
are such means of refinement. They are destined, when added, 
to afford a definite, usual, or even a special, type of beverage. 
Such typages always represent an individual taste, but should 
never replace or fortify the original taste, but only modify it. 
Similar are the so-called "bouquetage" preparations. They also 
should never substitute the taste itself, but round it out and give 
it some special flavor. During the distillation it often happens 
that some flavoring constituents are destroyed because of their 
delicacy. To avoid this, the manufacture is carefully conducted 
by special methods, as using low temperatures, etc. However, 
it will be found a good practice to enrich the volatile flavor with 
such aromatic substances as help to express the full taste. 

Another method is the "fixage." Most flavors are very vola- 
tile and also very sensitive. To render such flavors more perma- 
nent to the taste, it is usual to make discreet additions of volatile 
oils, high-boiling ethers, artificial flavors, etc. They retain the 
taste on the tongue and prolong its effect on the nerves of taste. 
However, fixing agents and also bouquetages should never be 
employed in such amount as to overbear the original taste or to 
imitate it in any wise. 

Lastly, artificial fortifiers usually have no other purpose than to 
imitate the taste and to cover up any defect. In most cases it will 
be necessary to make a declaration regarding a product so treated. 

ALTERATION OF THE TASTE BY CHEMICAL OR PHYSICAL 

MEANS 

Flavoring substances are products of the living plant, and with 
the harvesting and the interruption to growth, the parts carrying 
any taste begin at once to lose in flavor. Of course the loss varies 
regarding the time when it is directly noticeable, but the develop- 
ment of flavor is interrupted completely. The flavor of fruits is 
developed when the fruits are ripened, and it is enriched by the 
action of sunlight, especially on that side where the light falls 



12 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

and that side is then usually more highly colored. Heat and sun- 
light develop the flavor. But, on the other hand, heat destroys 
the flavors if the fruit is fully ripe. The delicate flavors, as of the 
strawberry, and also the volatile oils, are very sensitive to heat. 
For example, take the fine flavor of lemon peel usually obtained by 
expressing the oil. When fresh lemon peels are distilled to obtain 
the volatile oil, the result is an oil of very low quality. The same 
is the case when expressed lemon oil is rectified — the oil obtained 
will have lost its fine flavor. 

Most volatile oils are not so sensitive, but in very many cases 
some alteration in the flavor will be observed. It is therefore 
best to transfer the flavor by distillation with alcohol in the manner 
that essences are generally manufactured. The temperature 
should be lowered by maintaining a vacuum, whereby the flavor 
is isolated in a much more natural condition than at the ordi- 
nary temperature. Some flavors, such as pineapple, strawberry, 
banana and peach, do not bear distillation at all, or but very badly, 
and hardly without loss of quality of product. 

Besides the original taste some by-taste is often developed by 
heat. This by-taste is usually unpleasant, but frequently, however, 
it is very desirable, as in the case of roast meats, roasted coffee, etc. 

The air, or rather, the oxygen of the air, is the cause of a rancid 
taste. This results from oxidation, which causes the terpenes of 
the volatile oils to resinify. Again, fermentation has a peculiar 
effect on the aroma of fruit. Some flavors are greatly improved 
by it, as apples and cherries, and others entirely destroyed, as, 
for instance, strawberry, pineapple, banana, peach, etc. Others 
are partially influenced, and even the most stable give evidence of 
some change. Those fruits which are sensitive to heat are also 
sensitive to fermentation. The alteration in taste in such cases 
is due to a chemical decomposition of the natural flavors, and new 
flavors are formed, some of which may have a better taste than the 
original, as for instance with black currants, and sometimes the 
new taste suppresses the agreeable original taste. 

Such possibilities must be borne in mind when manufacturing 
essences, and therefore the methods employed are very varied, 
because it is important to use the most practicable to exhaust the 
raw material to the greatest extent and at the same time to ob- 
tain the most natural reproduction of the flavor as regards fineness 
and utilizability. 



PART II 

THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT 

TASTES 

A. Fruits and Other Parts of Fresh Plants. 

B. Drugs. 

1. Collection and Preparation of Drugs. 

2. Constituents of the Most Important Drugs. 

3. Classification of Drugs According to Their Specific Taste. 

(a) Bitter Drugs. 

(6) Aromatic Drugs. 

(c) Stimulant Aromatics. 

(d) Coloring Matters. 

C. Volatile Oils. 

1. Manufacturing Methods. 

(a) Expression. 

(b) Distillation and Rectification. 

(c) Extraction. 

2. Composition of Volatile Oils. 

3. General Methods of Examining Volatile Oils. 

4. Table of Physical Standards of Volatile Oils. 

5. Table of Solubility of Volatile Oils. 

6. Determining the Quality of Certain Volatile Oils. 

7. Terpeneless Oils. 

(a) Vacuum Method. 

(6) Alcoholic Distillation. 

(c) Table of Solubility of Terpeneless Oils. 

D. Chemicals. 

1. Inorganic Chemicals for the Mineral Water Industry 

(a) Haloid Salts. 

(6) Sulphates. 

(c) Carbonates. 

(d) Various Inorganic Salts. 

(e) Free Acids. 

2. Alcohols and their Corresponding Derivatives. 

(a) General Considerations. 

Table I. Alcohols, Aldehydes and Corresponding Acids. 
Table II. Fractionation Products of Fusel Oil. 

13 



(6) Organic Alcohols. 

(c) Aldehydes. 

(d) Organic Acids. 

(e) Esters. 

Table of the Most Important Esters. 
Chemical Reaction Showing Formation of Esters in General. 
Addendum: Zapon Varnish Manufacture. 

3. Fruit Acids for Lemonades. 

4. Carbohydrates. 

5. Aromatic Products. 



14 



PART II 

THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT 

TASTES 

A. Fruits and Other Parts of Fresh Plants 

The value of the various fruits depends in general upon the 
wholesomeness of their juices, the constituents of which are fruit 
acids, sugar and certain salts. The varied taste is afforded by the 
fruit flavoring which becomes more pronounced when the fruit 
ripens. The pleasant taste determines the employment of the 
fruit either as such, or in the form of marmalades or jellies, and 
particularly as fruit juices, this last indeed being specially utilized 
in a particular industry. Fruits of all kinds are also used in the 
manufacture of essences, for which their flavors lend themselves. 
In Parts IV and V the manufacture of such juices as well as fruit 
essences will be fully detailed. 

The other plant portions are scarcely, if at all, used, except as 
table or kitchen vegetables, for which purpose the plant parts are 
dried by varied methods,' and kept ready for use in the form of 
drugs. 

B. Drugs 

1. Collection and Preparation of Drugs 

All plants, or at least certain parts of them, contain specific 
substances upon which the taste or odor depends, and which are of 
importance in the manufacture of essences; other substances are 
also present which, though of less importance so far as taste and 
flavor are concerned, may be of technical or medicinal value. 
Every plant family elaborates specific substances, and the mode 
by which this is effected depends upon the life history of the plant, 
the various substances of most interest to us being, in fact, con- 
sidered to be by-products of the plant metabolism. Those sub- 
stances which the plant organism cannot utilize for its growth and 
development are deposited in the cells of some part of the plant 
as by-products. To these substances belong the volatile oils, and 

15 



Ill MAM \l. Hilt TIIK KSSKNCE INDUSTRY 

uUi hilm :uli:iaiiirn having taste or odor. The quantities of 
..lit li t.» |H in In* -lo ili-|H*ml ii|mhi the* character of the plant family. 
a.. »\ill .i ii|h»ii l h«- cultivation, development at time of collec- 
ittiii pi -in ••! hi Hie ycur, and the prevailing weather. In most 
i.a..i..> |il.iiii.. tuoMiiii! Mild arc richer in quantities of such sul>- 
..i.uh'i, rthilt in mllivated plants the flavor is in many cases 
In. I ii.i di vi -lupi d Theie i.i therefore a choice to Ik? made, accord- 
i, t|A |,, i| lt . i h.tiiu li-i nt tin- plant, as to whether wild or cultivated 
|.l.tni » .in I" I" picliiii-il. Aromatic substances are present in 
l.ufctti >i niiauiit %■ «ii t In- flowering period, while with extractives 
ilu. i> tin- !■•*•»■• al D"' period of ri|)cning, although during a dry 
.lull ilu- \i* Id hi i *liiiilivc is diminished. Then again the char- 
s%ixX kt \ itti. .mil i.» alno important, as well as the time of 

\. \ ml*- dniKi aic collected at that period of maturity when 
•i .uti.t.iiii-r-i dr.»md li> Ih^ utilized are developed to greatest 
H llu. In-'ilili collected plant portions are first dried, and 
s . |i«i..tMi' wiiIhmiI I he aid of artificial heat, best in the 
»^ di\miA U-.ihk lucilitated by a current of air. Only such 
b .t tuuu-Liii'. »•• which are very fleshy, are dried by the 
tui-d lusil l*v diving the plant parts are freed from 
» iiimn ol ualei content, and the extractives present 
s%v viuodiU'd The volatile oil content is diminished 

the odor 

mpaircd. 

md un- 

,. k k ;r , Mem*, etc., removed, or, in certain 

\v , v iluiiiM picked out for social use. Be- 

% x ^^U\ require to be comminuted. This is 

^ *^ V% ^^U\ by cutting or chopping machines, 

^.^ v-x * ^ UN \hou Nif I ed through sieves of various 

„_ .^.^ ^ ^ vivrtuufaclnre of essences, the drugs 

~^ **"*^ ^ ^ hh y nK5 f rom g ne pQ W( i er Jls 



■' *«* 
••s 



\ x nx-h .-.i-aUvm, piully by reunification, whereby tl 
^ v x v |,|| ,v, quality is concerned, are impaii 

^ ^sv ^ ^ ^ ambled, and any impurities a 



X Vv W*i 



vv N*t UHtfl in crushed form, the 
vJt^ the subsequent extraction 



*!>*> -i at all. used in the essence 
"*"" * • %» jiwuuxl from the comminuted 
*i> vkarmaeeutically. 
,<»* X «*encw, it is always of 



THE RAW MATERIALS TtELDCQG T1K Dfff^XEXT TASTO* 1? 



the greatest ■■jwiriwi isas lae 

minuted form m order tfea? the JMbUiu n en^Mroc nd^r p 

through the eel wafe anAonatr. and kr ska* 3; is naptxtaat to 

remember that h is not a qaestnmas i» hw iwrr the 

been ground, but as to hoar 



The volatile flavors depend, as is wel known, on the TofcitnV 
oils, and upon these the valoe of the spires is based. Only in 
certain cases is their effect enhanced be extractives as in the case 
of ginger or pepper. The so-called aromatic drugs all rontain 
volatile oik. bat their taste * m mo* cues improved by «ttac- 
tives of usuaDr more or leas bitter taste. Onhr in rare case? do we 
find a sweetish taste, as. for instance, with anise, coriander and 
fenneL Another group of drugs have a purely bitter taste, and 
many of these drugs have a cathartic action, as. for instance, aloes 
and agaric. whOe others are exceedingly active, but not aromatic. 
Still another group of drugs possesses a predominant bitter taste, 
which, however, is modified by aromatic substances present. 

Regarding substances having a cathartic action, it must be 
remembered that certain countries forbid the use of aloes and 
agaric, and to some extent also cinchona bark. In such cases it 
will be advisable to replace such bitter substances by others which 
are admissible and which are alwavs available. Even the usual 
cathartic drugs, such as rhubarb and manna, are also best dis- 
carded. 

Certain drugs owe their employment to their stimulant action, 
as coffee, tea and chocolate; the flavor of coffee and chocolate is 
developed by roasting before they are used as beverages. Certain 
drugs contain specifically active substances, as vanillin in vanilla 
bean, cumarin in tonka bean and woodruff, the so-called almond 
taste of benzaldehyde in seeds of stone fruits, saponin in soap root, 
etc. The extractives, particularly of the bitter drugs, frequently 
contain alkaloids, and the number of bitter drugs could be in- 
creased indefinitely in this respect were they not to some extent 
poisonous. Among the bitter substances are also certain gluco- 
sides, while others belong to the group of true bitter substances, 
the composition of which in general is but little known. 

The following table classifies the drugs according to their 
taste: 



16 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

also other substances having taste or odor. The quantities of 
such by-products depend upon the character of the plant family, 
as well as upon the cultivation, development at time of collec- 
tion, period of the year, and the prevailing weather. In most 
cases plants growing wild are richer in quantities of such sub- 
stances, while in cultivated plants the flavor is in many cases 
better developed. There is therefore a choice to be made, accord- 
ing to the character of the plant, as to whether wild or cultivated 
plants are to be preferred. Aromatic substances are present in 
largest quantity at the flowering period, while with extractives 
this is the case at the period of ripening, although during a di- 
spell the yield of extractive is diminished. Then again the char- 
acter of the soil is also important, as well as the time of 
maturity. 

As a rule drugs are collected at that period of maturity when 
the substances desired to be utilized are developed to greatest 
extent. The freshly collected plant portions are first dried, and 
so far as possible without the aid of artificial heat, best in the 
shade, the drying being facilitated by a current of air. Only such 
drugs as are aromatic, or which are very fleshy, are dried by the 
aid of artificial heat. By drying the plant parts are freed from 
their greater portion of water content, and the extractives present 
in the cells become dried. The volatile oil content is diminished 
partly by volatilization, partly by resinification, whereby the odor 
and taste, at least so far as quality is concerned, are impaired. 

The dried drugs are then garbled, and any impurities and un- 
important portions, such as stems, etc., removed, or, in certain 
cases, particularly good portions picked out for special use. Be- 
fore use, the drugs usually require to be comminuted: This is 
usually effected mechanically by cutting or chopping machines, 
and the comminuted drug is then sifted through sieves of various 
degrees of fineness. In the manufacture of essences, the drugs 
used are cut as finely as possible, but as free from fine powder as 
possible. 

Seeds, dried berries, etc., are best used in crushed form, the 
broken down cell walls facilitating the subsequent extraction 
Drugs in powder form are hardly, if at all, used in the essence 
industry. Such powders are often obtained from the comminuted 
drugs, but they are mostly used only.pharmaceutically. 

In using drugs in the manufacture of essences, it is always of 




THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 



the greatest importance that the drugs be used in properly com- 
minuted form in order that the menstruum employed may pass 
through the cell walls uniformly, and for this it is important to 
remember that it is not a question as to how finely the drug has 
been ground, but as to how uniformly. 

2. Constituents of Dbugs 

The volatile flavors depend, as is well known, on the volatile 
oils, and upon these the value of the spices is based. Only in 
certain cases is their effect enhanced by extractives, as in the case 
of ginger or pepper. The so-called aromatic drugs all contain 
volatile oils, but their taste is in most cases improved by extrac- 
tives of usually more or less bitter taste. Only in rare cases do we 
»find a sweetish taste, as, for instance, with anise, coriander and 
fennel. Another group of drugs have a purely bitter taste, and 
many of these drugs have a cathartic action, as, for instance, aloes 
and agaric, while others are exceedingly active, but not aromatic. 
Still another group of drugs possesses a predominant bitter taste, 
which, however, is modified by aromatic substances present. 

Regarding substances having a cathartic action, it must be 
remembered that certain countries forbid the use of aloes and 
agaric, and to some extent also cinchona bark. In such cases it 
will be advisable to replace such bitter substances by others which 
are admissible and which are always available. Even the usual 
cathartic drugs, such as rhubarb and manna, are also best dis- 
carded. 

Certain drugs owe their employment to their stimulant action, 
as coffee, tea and chocolate; the flavor of coffee and chocolate is 
developed by roasting before they are used as leverages. Certain 
drugs contain specifically active substances, as vanillin in vanilla 
bean, cumarin in tonka bean and woodruff, the so-called almond 
taste of benzaldehyde in seeds of stone fruits, saponin in soap root, 
etc. The extractives, particularly of the bitter drugs, frequently 
contain alkaloids, and the number of bitter drugs could be in- 
creased indefinitely in this respect were they not to some extent 

lisonous. Among the bitter substances are also certain gluco- 
while others belong to the group of true bitter substances, 
the composition of which in general is but little known. 

The following table classifies the drugs according to their 
taste: 



ere 
poi 
rid 



18 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



3. Table of Drugs According to Their Specific Taste 

[( ) = the carrier of the bitter taste] 

(a) Bitter Drugs with Little or No Aromatic Taste 

Very Strong and Drastic Bitters: 

Agaric (Agaricin). Quassia Wood (Quassin). 



Aloes (Aloin). 
Chiretta Herb. 



Wormwood (Absinthin). 



Strong Bitters: 

Centaury herb (Erythrocentaurin). 
Colomba root (Calumbin). 
Gentian root (Gentianin). 
Holy Thistle (Cnicin). 
Cinchona bark (Quinine). 
Simaruba bark (Simarubin). 



Weak Bitters with Aromatic Taste: 

Angustura bark (Cusparin). 
Cascarilla bark (Cascarillin). 
Yarrow (Achillein). 
Curacao peel (Hesperidin). 



Hop (Hop bitter). 

Iva herb (I vain). 

Orange, bitter; peels and unripe fruits. 

Rhubarb (Rhein and Emodin). 



(6) Aromatic Drags with Little or No Taste 



Strong Amniotics with Slightly Bitter 

Angelica root and seed. 

Halm Mint. 

Calamus root. 

Caraway. 

Cubcbs. 

Elecampane root. 

Juniper berry. 

I^aurol berry and leaves. 

Lemon peel. 

Thyme. 

Origanum. 

Weak Aromatics without Bitter Taste: 

Arnica flowers. 
Balm leaves. 
Celery seed. 
Common Chamomile. 
Orris root. 
Tansy. 



Taste: 

Lovage root. 

Marjoram. 

Peppermint. 

Pepperwort. 

Pimpinella root. 

Roman Chamomile. 

Rosemary. 

Sage. 

Valerian. 

Zcdoary root. 



Elder flowers. 
Guaiac wood. 
Lavender flowers. 
Musk seed (abelmoschus). 
Sassafras wood. 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 19 



Aromatic* with Peppery Taste: 




Capsicum. 
Galanga root. 
Ginger. 
Paradise grains. 


Pepper, black and white. 
Pyrethrum root. 
White Cinnamon. 


True Spice*: 




Allspice. 
Cardamom. 
- Cinnamon, Cassia and Ceylon. 


Cloves. 

Mace. 

Nutmeg. 

Vanilla (no volatile flavor). 


Aromalics with Sweet Taste: 


Anise and Star Anise. 
Carob. 
Coriander. 
Fennel. 


Licorice root. 

Manna. 

Sweet Orange peel. 


Aromatic* with Specific Taste: 




Bitter Almond Taste. 
Bitter Almonds. 
Apricot Kernels. 
Common Laurel leaves. 


Cumarin Taste. 
Woodruff. 
Tonka beans. 


Tannic Acid Taste. 
Oak bark. 


Animal Aromatic*. 
Musk. 

Ambergris. 


(c) Stimulant Aromalics 


Containing Caffeine. 
Coffee. 


Containing Cocaine. 
Coca leaves. 



(d) Coloring Matters 



Alkanet root (red). 
Huckleberry, black (red). 
Buckthorn berry (yellow). 
C&mpeachy wood (logwood) 

(blue). 
Catechu (brown). 
Cochineal (red). 
Cudbear (yellow). 
Curcuma root (yellow). 



Pernambuco wood (red). 
Poke berry (red). 
Kino (red). 
Mallow flowers (red). 
Safflower (Carthamin, yell 
Saffron (yellow). 
Santa! wood (red). 
Yellow wood (yellow). 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



" 



C. The Volatile Oils 
1. Manufacturing Methods 
(a) Expression 
The peels of the citrus fruits, e.g., orange, lemon, lime and 
amot, are particularly adapted for obtaining these oils, which are 
present in so large a quantity in the epidermis of the ripe fruit that 
they can be obtained by expressing the rasped peels. For this 
purpose the peel is expressed by hand against sponges, which absorb 
the oil, and yield it again on being expressed. The raw oil t 
obtained is then freed from pectiuous matter and water by sedi- 
mentation and filtration. The peels, which have thus only par- 
tially yielded their oil content, are now subjected to i 
distillation, whereby a second quality oil is obtained. The oils 
of the citrus fruits contain hut very little of the true carrier of 
the taste; thus lemon oil contains only about 3.5%, and oranges 
and mandarins only 1.6%, and these are besides exceedingly s 
sitive to heat, hence the flavor of the distilled or rectified citrus 
oils is not so pure. 

(b) Distillation and Rectification 
During distillation the volatile oils pass over with the vapors o 
the distilling medium with which the oil vapors mix, but separate 
as the vapors of the distilling medium condense, provided i 
medium be not a solvent of the oil. The volatile oils are obtained 
exclusively by distilling with water or steam, and in the latter cj 
even under pressure, by which means thorough exhaustion is 
accomplished. The rapidity of the process depends upon the kind 
of volatile oil, and the product itself is not uniform during the dis- 
tillation. At first the more volatile fractions pass over rather 
rapidly, while the less volatile pass over later, more and more 
slowly. The condensed liquid, carrying the oil with it, is col- 
lected in Florence flasks, of which, for the sake of safety, a num- 
ber are arranged in series to act as receivers. The yield of raw 
oil varies according to the raw material. So far as possible, fresh 
plant portions are used because these yield an odor truer to nature, 
and because they can more easily be exhausted. The volatile oils 
from spices and tropical products are usually obtained prepared by 
the aborigines by primitive me* 1 "" 40 *s raw oils, and are obtain- 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 21 

able as such in the market. It is then the province of the volatile 
oil refiner to further treat the raw product. 

Apart from any mechanical impurities it may contain, the raw 
oil contains a number of volatile constituents which pass over into 
the distillate. As the volatile oils are not distinctly uniform sul>- 
stances, but consist chiefly of two groups, one the characteristic 
taste carrier and the other the so-called terpenes, it is quite pos- 
sible to improve the quality of such an oil by partially removing 
the valueless constituents, and this is done by rectification. 
Here it must be remembered, however, that besides the constitu- 
ents upon which the characteristic odor and taste depend, there 
are present other substances also, about which little is known, and 
which to a certain extent may advantageously improve the taste, 
or else deteriorate it. The first group is of very sensitive charac- 
ter, and is particularly easily decomposed by heat, the flavor then 
passing into an ordinary one, and it is for this reason that it is 
advantageous to distil the plant portions with alcohol, which 
permits these sensitive substances to be obtained unchanged. 
The less agreeable substances are usually very volatile, and pass 
over with the lighter portions of the distillate received first. 
Sometimes, however, they consist of resinous substances which 
are less volatile, and which hence remain in the retort when rec- 
tifying the oil, or are obtained in the last portions distilled off. 

The rectification is effected with the aid of water, and 
employing a still provided with a return tube. The distillate 
is first received in a Florence flask in which the water con- 
denses, and the volatile oil then collects on the surface of the 
water. As usual, the more volatile fractions pass over first, and 
consist chiefly of terpenes and less valuable flavoring substances, 
as the valuable constituents are much less volatile. The manu- 
facturer may thus exercise his judgment as to the quantity of 
the first run to remove for the purpose he has in view. The true 
rectification product consists of the middle run, of the desired 
length of time; towards the end of the run it is customary to inter- 
rupt the distillation and collect a third portion of distillate, which, 
however, in most cases is much poorer, and contains foreign flavors. 
The first and last portions of distillate are collected and rectified 
by themselves in order to obtain their valuable constituents, if 
any. In some cases the rectified oil is rectified once more, or 
several times, particularly where very fine oils are desired. In 



22 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

every case the quantity of the distillate is subject to the judgment 
of the distiller, and without any objection being possible regarding 
the purity or quality, so far as no specially guaranteed content of 
certain constituents is in question. 

The so-called concentrated oils are also obtained by rectifica- 
tion, but in a vacuum without the use of water. With them, the 
object is to separate the first run, consisting of terpenes, from the 
middle run, which is rich in the substances carrying the flavor; 
the high-boiling after-run is much less valuable. In this case also 
the quantity to be separated is a question of individual judgment, 
and such oils have the sole advantage of having been partially 
deprived of valueless terpenes. A more thorough treatment, 
however, will be described later when treating of the methods of 
obtaining terpeneless oils. 

Certain flavors, such as caraway and anise, contain the flavor- 
ing agents, anethol and carvone, in large quantity, and as these 
have quite definite boiling-points, the substances may be obtained 
in technically pure form for commercial purposes by simple frac- 
tional distillation. 

In some cases the volatile oils are bleached, as is the case with 
anise and peppermint oils; and this is effected only by exposure 
to light in small, white bottles. 

(c) Extraction 

This method is merely a process of extracting aromatic constit- 
uents, using a solvent in which the volatile oils are soluble. For 
this purpose there are used chloroform, petroleum benzin, carbon 
tetrachloride, etc., which dissolve out the volatile oil without 
taking up any notable quantities of other extractives, fey proper 
methods the solvent is distilled off, and the extracted oil remains 
as a residue. This method is particularly adapted for use with 
fresh flowers, and other substances containing relatively small 
quantities of oil. 

2. Composition op Volatile Oils 

The volatile oils consist of various valuable constituents carry- 
ing the odor and taste, all of them containing oxygen, and ac- 
companied by oxygen-free terpenes (hydrocarbons) and some 
resinous or waxy impurities. The terpenes are always present in 
oils expressed from peels, and interfere with the perfect solubility 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 23 

of the oils. And even in rose oil or neroli oil traces of wax occur 
Some resinous matter is usually present in the raw oil, and may 
also develop in the oil itself through resinification. The terpenes 
are present in varying quantity, as the following table will show, 
and boil at lower temperatures (at about 370° F;). The allied 
group of sesquiterpenes, which boil at about 500° F., also belongs 
to the valueless constituents. Both of these have an aromatic, I 
but not specific, odor, and but little taste, and are soluble in very 
strong alcohol, but yield cloudy mixtures with weaker alcohols. 
It is hence the aim in the essence manufacture to free the essences 
from terpenes. 

The characteristic carriers of the taste may vary greatly in 
nature. In very many cases they may be designated according 
to their chemical composition. Among the foremost are the alco- 
hols, designated by the suffix "ol." To these belong anethol in 
anise oil, methol in peppermint oil, linalol in bergamot and laven- 
der oils, geraniol in rose oil, etc. The phenols, compounds closely 
allied to the alcohols, are represented by eugenol in clove oil, 
and thymol in thyme oil. These and other alcohols correspond 
to a number of aldehydes, bearing the suffix "al," as citral and 
citronellal in the citrus oils, and also cinnamaldehyde in cinnamon 
oil, and benzaldehyde in bitter almond oil. Of course, the alcohols 
may form esters, and in fact such compounds of alcohols with 
organic acids are suitably designated as salts of the acid, the alco- 
holic base bearing the ending "yl," as linalyl acetate in bergamot 
and lavender oils, menthyl acetate in peppermint oil, etc. A 
number of the taste carriers consist of carvones, with the suffix 
"one," as carvone (improperly carvol) in caraway oil, menthone in 
peppermint oil, and thujone in absinthium oil. The terpenes, too, 
are designated as light oils, and the general ending "ene" suffi- 
ciently designates their character, as pinene, citrene, carvene and 
thymene. The quantity of the true carrier of the flavor or taste 
determines the value of the volatile oil, but in many cases the 
qualitative determination is also indispensable. 

3. General Methods op Examination 

The volatile oils are usually costly substances, and hence sub- 
ject to adulteration. The simplest tests are those based on the 
properties possessed by standard oils. Among these is first the 
specific gravity, which may vary but slightly with narrow limits. 



24 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

Then again the lower the boiling-point as compared with the true, 
the more does this point to sophistication with terpenes. 

Other fixed standards are the solubility within certain limits, 
and which is based upon the use of alcohols of 13, 23 and 33 de- 
grees above proof. Usually a definite volume of oil will dissolve 
in a definite volume of the alcohols of the strengths noted. In 
certain cases, the solution will be cloudy if the oil contains any 
waxy or resinous impurities. The relations between the volumes of 
oil and alcohols will be seen from the following table. It is neces- 
sary also to test the residue, consisting of wax, from oils from the 
citrus fruits; and of anise, fennel and rose oils, the solidifying-point 
must be determined. The test for the presence of alcohol, which 
is frequently used for "cutting" or diluting the oil, usually con- 
sists in shaking the oil with water in a graduated measuring cylin- 
der, when the increase in the volume of the aqueous layer shows 
how much alcohol was present. The presence of turpentine oil, 
which is frequently used, is determined by fractionating a small 
sample of the volatile oil; if 10% of the first run of the distillate 
shows a decided change in the angle of rotation towards the left, 
the possibility of its presence is excluded. 

Excellent methods of valuation are also based on the determina- 
tion of the refractive index in the polarizer, as all the known oils 
possess average refractive indices characteristic of them. As 
these methods are, however, at times inconvenient, they will not 
be gone into. 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 25 
t Physical Standards op Volatile Oils 

';Con- 




Hwi.iuf J..i-S'il.. 
lluidun 3-S%. 



Toinl Mem hoi 

WW",. 
T..t.l Manlbol 

11 -WT. 
SnKrfif) iu point 

J4-W* F. 
C«n.iuol M-WJ. 



[> -1 vi*. W nr«A. 



26 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



5. Table of Solubility of Volatile Oils in Alcohols of Various 

Degrees 



Volatile oil. 



Allspice 

Angelica 

Anise 

Balm Mint 

Bergamot 

Calamus 

Caraway 

Cardamom 

Celery 

Cinnamon, Cassia 

Cinnamon, Ceylon 

Cloves 

Coriander 

Dill 

Fennel 

Ginger 

Juniper 

Lavender 

I^emon 

Limes 

Mace 

Marjoram 

Neroli 

Nutmeg 

Orange, bitter 

Orange, sweet 

Parsley 

Petitgrain 

Peppermint, American 
Peppermint, Mitcham . 

Rose 

Rosemary 

Sage 

Star Antee 

Tangerine 

Thyme 

Wormwood 

Anethol 

Carvone 

Eugenol 



One lb. dis- 
solves in 



Proof 
spirit. 



ft OS. 
1 " 

3 dr. 

4 " 
10 " 

1 OS. 

11 oz. 

2 dr. 

6 M 
12 " 



3 dr. 
12 " 



9 dr. 
1 oz. 

H M 
dr. 



ft OS. 
2 dr. 
4 " 
2)oz. 

idr. 



3 dr. 



12 dr. 

2 dr. 

3 os. 



7* 
under- 
proof. 



12 dr. 

*1 " 

A dr. 

1 M 
i " 

u •• 

l]os. 

21 dr. 

I " 

l* •' 

I " 

3 " 
3 " 
6 " 
!dr. 

U " 

18 dr. 

6 " 



ljdr. 
1 M 

U " 
H " 

os. 

1 lb. 
Hdr. 

1 " 
I M 
H " 
A '• 
6 " 
3 
i 3 « 



<« 



1 os. 

2 dr. 



10 



1 M 



10 gallons alcohol of degrees under- 
proof dissolve 



17* 



oz. 



lb. 
oz. 



12 dr. 

5 os. 

6 dr. 
14 " 

2}oz. 
5 - 
11 lb. 
2J oz. 

U " 

7joz. 

21 " 

2| " 

2ft oz. 
12 dr. 
10 " 

5 

8 

6 

3 

5 

21 " 

H " 

4 " 
21 " 
3|lb. 
3J " 

5 oz. 
U " 

U " 
2\ " 

8 dr. 

6 " 
3) oz. 
6 dr. 
11 lb. 
4 oz. 
2 M 

3] dr. 
12 oz. 



22* 



7 dr. 
31 oz. 

4 dr. 

10 •• 

1] oz. 

31 " 
14 " 
14 dr. 

81 " 

5 oz. 

U " 
10 dr. 

2 oz. 

10 dr. 

6 " 
2 oz. 
71 " 
4 " 
111b. 
3| oz. 
1| " 

12 dr. 
21 oz. 
21 " 
Hlb. 

H " 
2 oz. 
8| dr. 
12 " 
14 " 

7 " 
4 " 
2\ oz. 
4 dr. 

1 lb. 

2 oz. 
1 " 

2| dr. 
6 oz. 
6 dr. 



27« 



6 dr. 
21 os. 
2} dr. 

7 " 
10 M 

2|os. 



S7« 



4 dr. 
21 os. 
21 dr. 

5 " 
8 M 
Uos. 



3 dr. 
11 os. 
Hdr. 
3 " 

3} M 
14 " 



10 " 


8 


«• 


4 os. 


12 dr. 


10 


dr. 


6 dr. 


4 " 


2 


<• 


1 M 


11 OS. 





•• 


5 " 


12 dr. 


7 


•« 


4 M 


7 M 


8 


•« 


3| " 


14 " 


12 


4« 


10 " 


8 " 


4 


• • 


2 " 


5 M 


4 


«» 


3 " 


1| OS. 


12 


dr. 


10 " 


6 " 


4 


OS. 


3 os. 


21 " 


21 


«4 


U " 


U lb. 


15 


t< 


10 M 


2 oz. 


U 


<4 


1 " 


1ft " 


14 


dr. 


10 dr. 


10 dr. 


7 


•• 


5 M 


1ft oz. 


12 


•« 


8 " 


U " 


14 


•< 


10 " 


15 " 


8ft 


OS. 


8 os. 


U lb. 


Ulb. 


1 lb. 


14 dr. 


10 


dr. 


6 dr. 


4 " 


2 


«• 


1 " 


7 " 


5ft 


•• 


31 M 


11 " 


7 


<• 


4 M 


51 M 


3! 


•• 


2 M 


2| •• 


21 


•• 


11 " 


2 oz. 


14 


•• 


8 " 


21 dr. 


21 


t. 


It M 


15 os. 


12| 


OS. 


10 os. 


1 " 


11 


dr. 


7 dr. 


10 dr. 


7 


<« 


6 " 


21 " 


11 


i« 


11 " 


4 oz. 


31 


OS. 


2 os. 


5 dr. 


31 dr. 


2ft dr. 



6. Determining the Quality op Volatile Oils 

From Table 5 may be ascertained how much of a volatile oil is 
completely soluble in a given volume of alcohol of varying strength. 
Solution is best effected in strong alcohol, and declines quite 
rapidly with the decrease in strength of the alcohol. The solu- 
bility of the flavoring a limited to a certain extent, 



THE RAW MATERIAL YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 27 

which is defined in the table for alcohol of various strengths, and 
which shows how much oil will dissolve in 1 lb. alcohol of 7° 
overproof as well as proof strength, these data being of value for 
the manufacture of concentrated solutions in essence manufacture, 
while the extensions carried out for 10 gallons of alcohol of differ- 
ent strengths gives the greatest quantities of oil which can be dis- 
solved. 

The quality of the volatile oils is ascertained from the ester 
content and the particular alcohol resulting, which are fully de- 
tailed under the heading Alkalimetry, in Part III. 

The aldehydes are quantitatively determined by shaking out 
with a sodium bisulphite solution in which they dissolve. The 
volume of the insoluble residue is rea<J off by means of a scale, 
and the reduced volume deducted from that originally taken. 
The solution is effected in a 30% sodium bisulphate solution 
in a water-bath, and affords good results with cinnamon oils, 
although the results with lemon oil are not quite satisfactory. 

The phenol determination is also effected mechanically, by 
effecting solution in a 3 to 5% sodium hydroxide solution. The 
residual oil separates and floats on the surface of the mixture, and 
may be read off on a scale and the proper calculation made 
accordingly. 

7. Terpeneless Oils 

As the name designates, these are volatile oils from which the 
terpenes have been removed, with, at the same time, some other 
constituents which cause cloudiness when dissolved in alcohol. 

The terpeneless oils are characterized by a high degree of solu- 
bility in diluted alcohol. 

(a) Vacuum Method 

The process is based on a fractional distillation which is carried 
out in a vacuum in order to reduce the boiling-point. By careful 
regulation, all the terpenes pass over first, followed by the ses- 
quiterpenes, in the first run. The true flavoring constituent distils 
over at a rather constant boiling-point as a terpeneless oil, while 
the higher-boiling fractions remain in the still or pass over in the 
final distillate. Despite its exactitude, however, this method has 
the disadvantage that the boiling-point, in spite of the vacuum, is 
relatively high, whereby some of the finer flavoring portions are 
lost. 



mam'ai. i'ok nil': i-xsknck inihxtry 



•8 



(b) Alcoholic Distillation 

This method deserves preference l>ecause the average hoili 
point is below that of water. The operation is carried out in a 
ordinary rectifying still, and is based upon the ability of alcohi 
vapors to carry along with them the uudecomposed volatile oils 
The medium used is an alcohol of 17° underproof which, when 
distilled, affords an alcohol of about 30° overproof in the early 
stages of distillation. For distdling, 1 part of the volatile oil is 
mixed with at least 5 parts of the 17° underproof alcohol. The 
distillate is collected in a Florence flask, the alcoholic portion 
being returned to the still by a return pipe, so that the working 
strength of the alcohol in the still as well as the alcoholic vapors 
always remains constant. The oil passes over with the alcohol 
vapors, but during condensation the tcrpene separates as it is not 
soluble in alcohol of the strength present, while on the other hand 
the flavoring constituent is quite easily soluble. The oily solu- 
tion consequently is always being returned to the still while the 
terpene collects on the surface of the, distillate as a colorless liquid. 
During this continuous procedure, more and more terpene i 
separated and the layer increases in volume, so that it is onl; 
necessary to continue the distillation until the volume of the Iaye 
ceases to increase. At first this operation proceeds quite rapidl 
but gradually it slackens as the terpene content of the still d 
creases. By measuring the terpene and comparing with t! 
terpene number of the oil it is easy to determine about when tl 
distillation is at an end. The collected terpene, when dried, co 
stitutes a special article of commerce. The alcoholic residue in tl 
flask is returned to the still, and, with the addition of a suite 
quantity of water, distilled, but the return tube is now conncctet 
with a cooled receiver instead of the flask. At first alcoht 
vapors, saturated with the flavoring, distil over, but with the d< 
crease of alcohol strength, the terpenelcss oil separates in th 
flask in the form of a yellow layer. It will be found that tb 
greater portion of the terpenelcss oil will have been obtained whe 
the distillate contains no more alcohol. The distillate, however 
contains some terpeneless oil in solution, and to obtain this oi 
the distillate is diluted to an alcohol strength of 47° underpro 
when it separates, and is then added to the main portion. 1 
weak alcohol thus resulting is now rectified, and as it still posses 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 29 

a decided odor, it is used for a new manipulation, or for the manu- 
facture of a suitable essence. 

The terpeneless oil must always be dried by shaking with an- 
hydrous sodium sulphate, and preserved in dark bottles, and pro- 
tected from light and air. For general use it is best to keep the 
oil mixed with an equal volume of absolute alcohol. The follow- 
ing table gives the solubility of the terpeneless oils in alcohols of 
various strength. 

(c) Table op Solubility op Terpeneless Oils in Alcohol op Various 

Strength 



Terpeneless oils. 



Allspice 

Angelica 

Anise 

Balm Mint 

Bergamo* 

Calamus 

Caraway 

Cardamom 

Celery 

Cinnamon, Cassia 

Cinnamon, Ceylon — 

Cloves 

Coriander 

Fennel 

Ginger 

Juniper 

Lavender 

I ^wr^ii 

Mace 

Marjoram 

Neroli 

Orange, bitter 

Orange, sweet 

Parsley 

Petitgrain 

Peppermint, American 
Peppermint, Mitcham. 

Rose 

Rosemary 

Sage 

Star Anise 

Tangerine 

Thyme 

Wormwood 



One lb. dis- 
solves in 



Proof 
spirit. 



5 

1 

2 

21 
2 

4} 

31 

7 

21 

4 

7 

5 

21 

2 

21 
81 
11 

n 

21 
6 
H 
U 
31 
10 

U 

2 

1 

21 
12 
2 
6 
U 
31 



dr. 



os. 
dr. 

OS. 

dr. 



OS. 
II 

dr. 



i< 



OS. 

II 

dr. 
•I 

OS. 
II 

dr. 
•i 

it 

it 



OS. 

dr. 



7° 
under- 
proof. 



Idr. 

1 

J 

It 
21 

1 
11 

U 

':n 
u 

21 
11 OS. 

ii 

idr. 
1 
1 
1 

21 

1 

1 

1 
l! 

11 
1 
1 

2 
21 
A 
41 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 



10 gallons of degrees underproof alcohol 
dissolve 



17« 



81 dr. 
31 " 
3) M 

10 " 
11 os. 

11 dr. 

12 os. 

1 " 
21 " 
5 " 

2 " 
H " 
U " 
3} dr. 
5 * 4 

5 " 
11 oz. 

H " 

6 dr. 

81 " 
2 oc. 

14 dr. 

14 " 
2 oi. 

H " 

1 " 

H " 
21 dr. 

31 oz. 

11" 
3f dr. 
6 " 
12 " 

12 " 



22° 


5 dr. 


21 " 


21 " 


7 " 


11 " 


7 " 


6 oc. 


7 dr. 


12 " 


31 oz. 


12 dr. 


6 " 


11 oz. 


21 dr. 


41 " 


41 " 


10 •• 


14 " 


5 " 


41 " 


1 oz. 


7 dr. 


7 " 


12 M 


7 " 


8 " 


10 •• 


1 " 1 


Hoz. ; 


12 dr. ' 



! 21 •' 

! 5 " 

7 " 

7 " 

i 



27* 



4 dr. 

2 " 
2j .. 

5 " 

4 " 

5 " 

4 os. 
21 dr. 

5 " 

1 oz. 
81 dr. 

5 " 
11 " 

2 " 

H M 

3J " 

6 " 
11 " 

3| " 

21 M 

81 " 

31 " 

6 " 

7 " 

6 " 
5 " 

7 " 

I " 

10 

10 

2 " 

31 " 

4 " 

31 " 



• i 
ii 



32* 



21 dr. 

U " 

U " 
31 " 
21 " 
3 " 
31 oz. 
Idr. 
21 " 
6 " 
5 " 



31 

81 

H 

H 

31 

5 

7 

21 

21 

6 

21 

5 

5 

3) 

31 

5 

1 
6 
5 

If 
31 
31 
3 



37" 



2 dr. 

1 " 

U " 
21 •• 

H " 

2 •* 

2 os. 
Idr. 

1 " 

5 " 

3 " 
2} " 

6 " 
1 " 
1 

21 
31 
5 

H 

U 

31 

U 

31 

3 

21 

21 

3 

4 

3 
1 
21 

21 " 
21 " 



30 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

D. Chemicals 

1. Inorganic Chemicals for the Mineral Water 

Industry 

Of the innumerable compounds of inorganic chemistry, and 
which are articles of commerce, only the most important of those 
used in the mineral water industry will require discussion. The 
composition of these salts will be given in the following table, 
their purity requirements will be given under the analytical 
methods in Part III. 

(a) Haloid Salts (Bromides, Chlorides and Iodides). 

These are generally to be examined for sulphur, carbon dioxide 
and metal salts, particularly iron salts. The alkali salts, more- 
over, are to be examined for calcium and magnesium; and the 
calcium chloride for magnesium. 

Soluble in water 

Bromide of Ammonium, NH*Br easily 

" Potassium, KBr " 

" Sodium, NaBr " 

Chloride of Aluminum, A1CU + 6 H,0 " 

" Ammonium, NH 4 C1 1:4 

" Barium, BaCl, + 2 H,0 (poisonous) 1:3 

" Calcium, CaCl, + 6 H,0 easily 

" Potassium, KC1 1:3 

" Lithium, LiCl 1:5 

" Magnesium, MgCl, + 6 H,0 easily 

" Sodium, NaCl 1 : 2.5 

" Strontium, SrCl 2 + 2 H,0 1:3 

Iodide of Sodium, Nal easily 

(6) Sulphates. 

These are to be tested generally for hydrochloric and carbonic 
acids, metal salts (excepting those of copper and manganese) and 
particularly for iron. The alkali sulphates are also to be tested 
for calcium and magnesium. 

Soluble in w 

Sulphate of Aluminum, A1,(S0 4 ), + 18 H,0 1 : 10 

" Copper, CuS0 4 + 5 H»0 (poisonous) 1 : 2.5 

" Iron (ous), FeS0 4 + 7 H,0 1:2 

" Potassium, KtS0 4 easily 

" Manganese, MnS0 4 + 5 H,0 1 : 2.5 

" Magnesium, MgS0 4 + 7 H,0 1 : 1.5 

" Sodium, Na£0 4 + 10 Hrf) 1 : 2.5 



it 






M it 

ti it 

it 

u 

tt ti ti 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 31 

(c) Carbonates. 

These, so far as the soluble salts are concerned, are to be ex- 
amined for sulphuric and hydrochloric acids, And for metal salts, 
particularly iron. 

Soluble in water 

Carbonate of Calcium, CaCOj insoluble 

Potassium, KjCOj easily 

Lithium, Li,CO, 1 : 80 

" Magnesium, MgCOj insoluble 

" " Sodium, Na,CO, + 10 HA crystals . x easily 

Na,CO, + 2 HA dried 1:2 

Bicarbonate of Sodium, NaHCOj 1 : 12 

(d) Various Inorganic Salts. 

These are to be examined for hydrochloric, carbonic and sul- 
phuric acids, and for metal salts, particularly iron. 

Soluble in water 

Sodium Arsenate, Na»As0 4 (poisonous) easily 

Biborate (Borax), Na,B 4 07 + 10 H,0 1 : 17 

Nitrate, NaNOj easily 

Phosphate, NatHP0 4 + 12 H,0 1 : 1.5 

Silicate, NajSiO* easily in hot water 

Sulphide, NajS easily 

(e) Free Acids. 

Arsenous Acid (White Arsenic), A82O1 (poisonous). 
Phosphoric Acid, 75%, sp. gr. 1.500 
" 25%, " " 1.154 
Sulphuric Acid, 98.5%, " " 1.836-1.840 

2. Alcohols and Their Corresponding Derivatives 

{Aldehydes, Acids and Esters) 

(a) General Considerations. 

The alcohols correspond to the bases in inorganic compounds, 
and, like these, are hydroxyl (OH) compounds, e.g., methyl alcohol, 
CHa(OH). Now each base corresponds to an oxide, and the oxides 
are designated as esters, or ethers, of which the one most interest- 
ing to us is ethylic ether (sulphuric ether). The alcohol may be 
oxidized, and then yield as intermediate products first aldehydes, 
distinguished by the radical (COH). The final oxidation products 
are acids, having the general radical (COOH). 

The most important alcohols of the so-called fatty series are 
products, or by-products, of the fermentation of sugar and the 



32 



MAM'AI. 1'OK Till: KSSKNTE lMH'STKY 



substances accompanying it, with the exceptiun of methyl alcohol, 
which is obtained by the destructive distillation of wood. The 
higher homologues of the alcohols are constituents of plant fats. 
Besides the alcohols of the fatty series there are various other 
groups, as, for instance, the raw products for making benzoic and 
salicylic acids. 

All alcohols are distillable. Those having low boi ling-points 
are fluid; those with higher boiling-points are solid. They are 
all acted on by oxidizers, and, in fact, for the low-boiling alcohols, 
as, for instance, ethyl alcohol, the contact with air suffices, in the 
presence of bacteria, to convert them into acetic acid. The higher- 
boiling alcohols, on the other hand, have to be acted on by oxi- 
dizers, such as chromium trioxide. 

The acids, again, give rise to characteristic salts, which are ob- 
tained as definite products by the action of the acids on the alco- 
hols which serve as bases, sulphuric acid being used as a catalytic. 
The various kinds of products so obtained differ by reason of a 
constant boiling-point, which increases with increase in the num- 
ber of carbon atoms. The boiling-point is relatively low among 
the aldehydes, and rises among the acids and esters. 

The esters form not only the basis of the so-called fruit ethi 
but they are also employed technically, as for cleansing pre] 
tions and in varnishes. The higher ethers, particularly those of 
the fusel-oil group, such as propyl, butyl and amyl ethers, are 
obtained by the fractional distillation of products obtained from 
crude fusel oil, and resulting as a by-product in the manufacture 
of alcohol and its rectification, this by-product being a mixture 
of propyl, butyl and amyl alcohols and their isomers, which distil 
r after the ethyl alcohol. 

The following Table I shows the composition of the alcohols 
and their corresponding acids and aldehydes, with their boiling- 
points and coefficients, the latter being identical with their molec- 
ular weights. Table II shows the composition of the raw fusel 
oil, and the manufacture of the raw materials for making amyl 
ester. 




the raw materiajj3 yielding the different tastes 33 
Table 1. Alcohols, Aldehydes and Corresponding Acids 



AUointi, 


i 


i 


AMit^u, 


1- 


1 


JA 


i 


1 

3 


Hpaaino 


Hxhy] Alcohol 
Ethri 

Propyl " 

Knal 

Bulylatohol . . . 


171* 
SOT" 

110* 
W 

m* 

*7o" 


r.rl 

M 

74 


Formildehyd* 
Acsialdnhjds. 

hyde 
Butylaldshyie 


1J0* 


M 
SB 


Formic Add 


1M" 
111* 


M 

BO 

n 


l.Dto" 
WO 
MO 








»; 


» 


V-Jeric Add 

(En»nlhio " 
Cpryl.0 - 
Cmpric 


Hl- 

401' 
4M* 
4»" 


Hi- 
IU 
1M 
144 

n 






88 

in 

118 

■VI 
58 


ViUraldnhyd. 




Amy] Alcohol .. 


0.947 











































.AromudV Azvlit 


BfMjMujbul.. 


4M" 


loe 


Baauldahyd* 


MO 1 




Bonioic Add 
rUwylio " 
(Suociiiio " 




in 

138 
IIS 




" 















molooulv'wsigbti of the product*. 



Tbis table gives only the most important products constitut- 
ing the raw materials for the ester manufacture. 



Table 2. Fractionation Products of Raw Fusel Oil, and 

Manufacture of Raw Materials for the Ether, 

or Ester, Manufacture 

The raw fusel oil is calculated on the basis of an extraction made 
by shaking out with a saturated solution of sodium chloride, and 
which should not extract over 10%. 

There are three general fractions, the so-called light oils, solu- 
ble in water; a hydrous middle run, the "wet" oils (containing 
some water); and the higher-boiling anhydrous, or water free 
fraction. 

The run of the fractions is as follows: 



34 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 





Boiling-point F.: 








Methyl alcohol 
Ethyl alcohol 


153°-167° 
167°-180° 


abt. 2% 

" 4% 


= about 6% light- 
est fractions. 


About 25% 
so-called light ' 
fusel oil 


Secondary Propyl 180°-190° 

alcohol 
Normal Propyl 190°-206° 

alcohol 
Primary Butyl 206°-212° 

alcohol 


" 8% 
" 3% 


= about 19% tech- 
nical Propyl al- 
cohol. 


20% "Wet" 


Fusel oU 


212°-233° 


abt. 20% 


After dehydrat- 
ing, is worked 
up as below.* 


51% water- 

< 

free fraction 

* /O 


Normal Butyl 

alcohol 
Amyl alcohol 

Residue 


233°-260° 
260°-270° 


abt. 6% 

" 45% 

" 4% 


Butyl alcohol. 

as C. P. Atnyl 

alcohol. 
brown and 

resinous. 



100% 

* The hydrous fraction contains about 10% of water, which is removed by 
exsiccated potassium carbonate, then rectified once more with the following 
result: 

Loss of water by drying about 10% 

Boiling-point F. 

Normal Propyl alcohol 185°-208 o about 15% [ T ° the above technical 

Primary Butyl " 208°-218° 

218°-227° 



Propyl alcohol. 



Isobiiiyl alcohol 






25/ 



20% 1 Isobutyl 1 55% technical 



Normal Butyl alcohol 227°-260° " 30% J alcohol J Butyl alcohol. 

(b) The Alcohols 

Methyl alcohol, or wood spirit, or wood alcohol, results, together 
with pyroligneous acid and acetone, during the destructive dis- 
tillation of wood. The distillate is first neutralized with lime, and 
the crude product is utilized for the manufacture of acetic acid. 
To the residual lye calcium chloride s added, which combines 
with the methyl alcohol, and permits the distilling oflf of the other 
volatile products {e.g., acetone). The residue is then treated with 
water, by which the methyl alcohol is liberated and then obtained 
by distillation. Methyl alcohol is poisonous, and hence cannot be 
used as a substitute for ethyl alcohol, but it may be used tech- 
nically as a solvent. Ethyl alcohol is the product of the fermenta- 
tion of invert sugar, and is obtained from the mash by distillation 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 35 

and rectification in the usual manner. Starchy products, e.g., 
potatoes and maize, are converted into fermentible sugars, for 
industrial alcohol, and corn for refined alcohol. Even cellulose 
may be similarly converted into sugar, and the latter into alcohol. 
Ethyl alcohol forms the raw product for the manufacture of alco- 
holic beverages. 

Propyl and Butyl alcohols are found as various isomers in raw 
fusel oil, and are obtained by special methods from the fermenta- 
tion products of wine yeast and wine residues. 

Amyl alcohol is the chief constituent of raw fusel oil. 

Higher alcohols are often constituents of some volatile oils, and 

particularly as glycerides in fats. Of the aromatic alcohols, the 

only one of interest to us is benzyl alcohol, which is an oxidation 

product of toluene, 

(c) Aldehydes 

These are intermediate oxidation products of alcohols. They 
are very easily oxidized, and hence constitute powerful reducing 
agents. 

Formaldehyde (obtained from methyl alcohol) occurs as a gas, 
but is marketed as a 35% aqueous solution under the name 
"formaldehyde," or "formalin," and it is used as a disinfectant. 

Benzaldehyde is the chief constituent of bitter almond oil, and 

is developed in the kernels of stone fruits by the interaction of 

the glucoside amygdalin and the ferment emulsin, together with 

hydrocyanic acid as a by-product. Synthetically it is prepared 

from benzyl chloride. 

(d) Organic Acids 

Formic acid is obtained by the decomposition of oxalic acid, 
which may be considered as a compound of carbonic acid and 
formic acfd. The decomposition is effected by distilling with 
glycerin which, during the decomposition, is always regenerated. 
Formic acid is used as a disinfectant and preservative, and is 
marketed in 25% and 75% solutions. 

Acetic acid is the oxidation product of dilute alcoholic liquids, 
and results from the action of the acetic-acid bacteria with suffi- 
cient access of air, as fermentation vinegar; it is the cause of the 
souring of beer and wine. Acetic acid itself is obtained by the 
decomposition of crude calcium acetate obtained as a by-product 
in the destructive distillation of wood. The crude acid is purified 
by repeated rectification, and when diluted serves as table vinegar. 



r36 MANUAL BOB THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

Butyric acid is a fermentation product obtained by the action 
of the lactic-acid bacillus. To obtain it, sugar, starch, dextrin, 



I 



k 
i, 



To obtain it, sugar, starch, dextrin, 
etc., are fermented with putrid cheese at 86 to 100° F., the acid 
formed being then neutralized with chalk. Calcium lactate is 
first formed, from which lactic acid may be obtained. In the 
course of time, however, the calcium lactate is converted into 
calcium butyrate, and from this the butyric acid is isolated by 
the action of sulphuric acid. 

Valeric acid is the oxidation product of amyl alcohol, from 
which it is obtained by oxidizing the alcohol with chromium 
trioxide. This is effected by adding a solution of potassium di- 
chromata with sulphuric acid at a temperature not exceeding 
155° F. The crude valeric acid is neutralized with sodium hydrox- 
ide, and the undecom posed fusel oil, as well as any valeraldehyde 
formed, distilled off. The residue is treated with sulphuric acid, 
and the pure valeric acid distilled off. It serves for the manu- 
facture of valeric ether. 

Capric, Caproic and Caprylic adds are fatty acids of unpleasant 
odor, and are particularly found in perspiration. Caproic acid 
results during the fermentation of wheat bran; capric acid from 
oil of rue; and caprylic acid hy the oxidation of soaps with steam 
under pressure. (Enanthic acid is a fermentation product of wine 
yeast, but is obtained by distilling castor oil with steam under 
pressure. Sebacic acid results on distilling oil soaps with steam 
under pressure. 

All these minor acids are employed to make the corresponding 
eaters which are very similar to the fermentation products, par- 
ticularly of wine, and to which the "bouquet" is due. 

Of the aromatic acids only the following are used in the e 
industry : 

Salicylic acid is obtained by the action of carix>n dioxide ( 
phenol-sodium solution, the resulting sodium salicylate 
then decomposed by acids. 

Benzoic acid is found naturally in benzoin resin, and is obtainec 
from this by sublimation. The synthetic acid, on the other hand, 
is an oxidation product of benzyl alcohol. Both the natural and 
synthetic acids are powerful preservatives. 

Succinic acid is usually obtained by the dry distillation of a 
ber, or synthetically by fermenting calcium malate with cheese 
at 86 to 100° F. 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 37 



(c) E8teT8 

These result, as is well known, from the action of organic acids 
on alcohols, and they differ from each other particularly as to 
their boiling-points, the latter rising with the increase in number 
of the carbon atoms, as will be seen from the following table: 

Table of the Most Important Esters 

Coefficient = the molecular weights. 

Methyl Esters 



Formate. . 
Acetate . . 
Propionate 
Butyrate.. 

Valerate... 



Boiling- 
point, F. 



136* 
147° 
176° 
205° 
312* 



Coefficient. 



60 
74 
8 

102 
116 



Bensoate 

(Niobeoil) 

Salicylate 

(Artif. wintergreen 
oil; 0peo.gr. 1.032) 



Boiling- 
point, F. 



374* 
415° 



Coeffi- 
cient. 



136 



152 



Ethyl Esters 



Formate 

(Formic Ether) 
Acetate 

{Acetic Ether) 

Propionate 

Butyrate 

(Butyric Ether) 
Valerate 

( Valerie Ether) 

Caproate 

(Enantbate. . . . . 



Boiling- 


Coeffi- 


Spec. 


point, F. 


cient. 


gravity. 


130* 


74 


0.750 




88 


0.800 


190° 


102 


0.830 




116 


0.900 


210 a 


130 


0.886 


210° 


158 
158 




271° 






330 a 






368° 


1 


! 



Caprylate 

Caprate 

Benzoete 

{Benzoic Ether) 
Salicylate 

{Salicylic Ether) 
Sebacate 

(Sebacic Ether) 
Succinate 

(Succinic Ether) 




Coeffi- 
cient. 

172 
200 
150 

166 
138 

87 



Propyl Esters 



Acetate 

Propionate 

Formate 

Acetate 

Propionate 

Formate 

Acetate 

Butyrate 

Benzyl Acetate.. 
Benzyl Benzoate 



Boiling- 
point, F. 



Coefficient. 



204° 
234° 



102 
116 



Butyrate. 
Valerate. . 



Boiling- 
point, F. 



262° 
311° 



Coeffi- 
cient. 



130 
144 



Butyl Esters 



208° 
248* 
266° 



102 
116 
130 



Butyrate 

Valerate 

Isobutyl Acetate. 



312° 
352° 
234° 



144 
158 
116 



Amyl Esters 



257° 
293° 
312° 

403" 
661 a 



116 
130 
158 

151 
212 



Valerate 

Caprate 

(Artif. wine fusel oil) 

Benzoete 




172 
242 



192 



38 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

CHEMICAL REACTION SHOWING THE FORMATION OF ESTERS 

IN GENERAL 

Example: Acetic Ether. 



CjEUCHO) + CH..COOH = 


- CH.COO • CH» 


+ HiO 


Ethyl Alcohol Acetic Acid 


Ethyl Acetate 
(Acetic Ether) 


Water 


Mol. wt. 46. Mol. wt. 60. 


Mol. wt. 88. 


Mol. wt. 18. 



Result. 

46 parts ethyl alcohol 100%, calculated, and 60 parts acetic acid 100% 
are necessary to obtain theoretically 88 parts acetic ether, and 18 parts of 
water as by-product. 

For purposes of calculation set down the molecular weights of 
the alcohols and acids to be used as materials for the ester manu- 
facture as in the reaction just shown, in order to obtain the theo- 
retical yield as shown by the molecular weights of the resulting 
esters. 

The manufacture proceeds as follows: Sulphuric acid is added, 
not because it takes direct part in the ester formation, but as a 
catalytic. The specific acid to be used and the alcohol are intro- 
duced into the apparatus and heated to boiling, because the ester- 
ification proceeds only at the boiling-point. In order that this 
shall be thorough, the boiling is carried on for some time, using a 
reflux condenser, whereby the presence of too much undecomposed 
acid or alcohol will be avoided in the distillate. The product is 
then distilled and washed in washing cylinders containing an alkali 
to neutralize the acid. When water-soluble alcohols, like ethyl 
alcohol, are used, the undecomposed portions are taken up by the 
wash-liquid, and recovered later by distillation. As the raw ester 
contains some water, it is dried over calcium chloride, and then 
rectified. In the case of a high-boiling ester which cannot be 
distilled over, even by increasing the steam pressure to 5 atmos- 
pheres, use is made of the vacuum. In any case not all the frac- 
tions are pure; the ester contains some moist portions which pass 
over in the first part of the distillate, or, when high-boiling alco- 
hols have been used, it will contain some undecomposed portions 
of these, which must be removed by fractionation. The standard 
for a pure ester is based upon the ester being absolutely free from 
water and alcohol, and from other alcohols. It is a requisite that 
a sample should afford a clear mixture, free from turbidity, with 
benzene, and, in critical cases, with liquid paraffin. 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 39 

The commercial esters are not always pure, due partly to 
their mode of manufacture and partly to insufficient rectification. 
Sometimes, however, the esters are purposely "cut." Then their 
alcohol and water content is ascertained by shaking out with a 
saturated sodium chloride solution, the volume of which will not 
be increased if the ester is pure, with the slight exceptions men- 
tioned under formic and acetic ethers. The determination is more 
accurately made by saponification, a sample of the ester being 
boiled under a reflux condenser with a normal alkali solution, 
whereby an equivalent quantity of the acid is converted into an 
alkali salt; the residual normal alkali is then titrated. 

Formic ether (ethyl formate) when shaken out with sodium 
chloride solution shows an effective content of only up to 84% 
ester. 

Acetic ether (ethyl acetate) is marketed in various grades, pre- 
pared by diluting the purer kinds with alcohol and water. The 
following values for the several grades are obtained on shaking 
out: 

Acetic ether, C.P., sp. gr. 0.905 97% 

(Pharm. Genii. V) sp. gr. 0.900-0.904 96% 

(98% pure ether and 2% alcohol) 
Absolute, sp. gr. 0.875 68% 

(70% pure ether and 30% alcohol) 
Twice-rectified, sp. gr. 0.890 68% 

(70% pure ester, 20% alcohol and 10% water) 
Rectified, sp. gr. 0.875 45% 

(50% pure ether, 35% alcohol and 15% water) 

Most of the other esters require no further attention, their most 
important physical data being given in the tables. 

Amyl acetate is obtained in chemically pure form in the usual 
manner. Large quantities, however, are used in the manufacture 
of lacquer, particularly zapon lacquer, for which purpose a pure 
product is not used, but either crude fusel oil or a by-product of 
its fractionation. The boiling-point of pure amyl acetate is 293°F., 
and the value of the technical amyl acetate is based upon the fact 
that a large number of fractions have boiling-points approximating 
that of the pure acetate, and in fact as a criterion it is required that 
not more than 5% should boil below 212° F. and at least T>0% 
should boil above 287° F. The following table shows the applica- 
tion of the various sorts of fusel oil, and the figures are based in 
every instance on the employment of 60 lb. 100% acetic ether 



« n 



« n 



40 MANUAL FOK THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

and 8 lb. sulphuric acid for the given quantities of the various 
fusel oils, to form 130 lb. of ether in each case. 

Fusel oil wwd Boiling-point range 

90 lb. C. P. amyl alcohol - 287to300°F. 

110" "Wet" Fiweloil 239 " 300" F. 

130 " Light " " 194 " 302° F. 

100 " Fusdoil residue 257" 311° F. 

110 " Crude Fusel oil 194 " 311° F. 

The crude ether obtained is dried as usual with calcium chloride, 
and when rectified yields at first about. 2(J% distillate containing 
about 20% water; this distillate is then dried as usual, and again 
distilled. Of the distillate obtained, the first 5% is already clearly 
miscible with benzene, while the balance, 75%, is absolutely dry, 
and is miscible with paraffin oil, and adapted for use in laequei 
manufacture. 

Addevddm. Zapon Lacquer 
Zapon lacquer consists of a solution of gun cotton (nitrocellu- 
lose) in amyl acetate, diluted with equally volatile substances to 
a varnish-like consistency. The so-called celluloid paste consists 
of 40% gun cotton dissolved in 60% ainyl acetate, whereby it 
loses its explosive power. This paste is worked up into a zapon 
lacquer having the following composition: 

Celluloid Paste 20 parta 

Amyl Acetate. . . 30 " 

Benzin (boiling-point 140 to 167° F.) 40 " 

Methyl Alcohol 10 " 

This stronger lacquer contains 8% celluloid, and for use i 
diluted to suitable consistency by means of a diluent made from 
35 parts amyl acetate, 50 parts benzin and 15 parts methyl alco- 
hol. Medium lacquer consists of 75% stronger lacquer and 25% 
diluent, and the so-called dip lacquer, in which the articles to be 
lacquered are dipped, consists of equal parts stronger lacquer and 
diluent. Tinted with tar dyes, the lacquers are adapted for 
coloring electric bulbs for decorative illuminating purposes. 

Ethyl ether (mtlphuric ether) is obtained by the reaction of sul- 
phuric acid on alcohol at a temperature of 290° F. The product 
is condensed by cooling with ice, and has a specific gravity of 0.720, 
and boils at 113° F. It is chiefly used technically. 

Ethyl nitrite is obtained by distilling nitrous acid with alcohol. 
It boils at 64° F., and has an odor of apples, for which reason it is 
employed in making fruit ethers. 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 41 

»3. The So-called Fruit Acids for the Lemonade 
Industry 
All fruits contain malic, citric, or tartaric acid in variable pro- 
portions, the acids being obtained from the fruit juices. 

Malic acid is found in unripe fruits, such as green grapes, apples, 
mountain ash l>erries, etc., and is obtained from the juices of these 
fruits by precipitating in the form of lead malate by the addition 
of solution of lead acetate. The malate is then washed, and 
finally decomposed by hydrogen sulphide gas. The malic acid 
liberated remains in solution, and is concentrated by evaporation, 
being thus obtained as easily deliquescent crystals. On account 
of its costliness, it is scarcely ever used practically, the more par- 
ticularly as it presents no advantage over citric or tartaric acid. 

Citric acid is prepared from the lemon juice obtained as a by- 
product in the manufacture of lemon oil by expression. The 
juice of unripe fruits may also be advantageously employed. 

The freshly expressed lemon juice is neutralized with lime, and 
is then heated to boiling, whereupon the calcium citrate is pre- 
cipitated. This is washed, and decomposed by sulphuric acid. 
After the resulting calcium sulphate has separated, the regener- 
ated citric acid in the solution is evaporated in lead pans until 
it crystallizes. For chemically pure qualities stone or porcelain 
vessels must be used for the evaporation. 

Citric acid occurs as crystals which are debquescent in the air, 
melt at 345° F. and burn with a pyroligneous odor. 

Tartaric acid is obtained from the tartar, consisting of potassium 
bitartrate, which is deposited in the form of a thick crust on the 
barrel walls as a result of the fermentation of wine, because it is 
insoluble in alcoholic liquids. The crude tartar is boiled with 
hydrochloric acid and water, and the solution is neutralized with 
milk of lime. The resulting calcium tartrate is then decomposed 
with sulphuric acid, the further treatment being then the same as 
for citric acid. 

Tartaric acid crystals melt at 338° F., and at a higher temper- 
ature burn with a decided odor. It is fully the equal of citric 
acid in taste. 

Lactic acid does not belong to the true fruit acids, but is an oxy- 
acid. It develops in the souring of milk, caused by certain bac- 
teria, and is manufactured on the large scale by fermenting starch, 




42 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

i 

sugar, dextrin, etc., with decomposing cheese, and with the addi- 
tion of chalk in liberal quantities to neutralize the acid as it forms. 
The calcium lactate so obtained is decomposed by sulphuric 
acid, and the lactic acid liberated is then concentrated by distil- 
lation in a vacuum. 

4. Carbohydrates 

The members of this class are exceedingly important in the 
manufacture of foods and beverages. Sugar plays a very great 
r61e in fermentation and as a corrigent or improver of taste. 
Cane sugar, whether obtained from the sugar cane, or from beets, 
is not directly fermentable. It is not so frequent in fruits, but is 
found in the stems (sugar cane), and in the root organs (beets). 
During its purification there result by-products, such as molasses, 
which are worked up into alcohol. The purified sugar is employed 
in comestibles. In the form of solution it is a constituent of our 
syrups. In crystallized form it constitutes rock candy. By the 
action of dilute acids it is hydrolyzed, taking up water and being 
converted into grape (or starch) sugar (dextrose), and fruit sugar 
(levulose), both of which are fermentible. Starch sugar is chiefly 
made from potatoes, and in the crude condition contains much 
dextrin. The starch sugar syrup (glucose) is used as a thickening 
agent for liqueurs. 

The fermentation of sugar is initiated by ferments, alcohol and 
carbon dioxide being formed. Other carbohydrates, particularly 
starch, may also be converted into convertible sugars. This is 
effected by the enzyme diastase, which causes the malting of 
grain, the malt sugar so formed being fermented to beer or alco- 
hol. Grape sugar is, however, also obtained by the action of 
dilute acids on starch, and the fermentation of the grape sugar so 
made forms the basis of the alcohol industry. Even cellulose has 
recently been worked up as a source of alcohol. 

5. Aromatic Products 

The group of products derived from the benzene nucleus is 
uncommonly diverse, and, as the heading intimates, comprises a 
large number of odorous substances. To these belong the many 
odor- and taste-bearing constituents of the volatile oils in the 
form of alcohols, aldehydes and ethers, ketones, etc., as well as 
the terpenes and a number of odorous artificial products derived 



THE RAW MATERIALS YIELDING THE DIFFERENT TASTES 43 

from them, such as ionone, nerolin, yara-yara, etc., so widely 
used in the essence industry. A large number of the taste carriers 
of the volatile oils are either synthetically made, or isolated from 
cheap raw material; and frequently one compound is converted 
into another; thus the system of artificial odors is constantly 
branching out. The artificial volatile oils constitute such isola- 
tion products, and their disadvantage is due to the al>sence of 
certain constituents present in the natural product, which impart 
the bouquet possessed by the latter. Among other artificial odor- 
ous substances may be mentioned vanillin and cumarin. Vanillin 
is an aldehyde found not only in the vanilla l>ean, but also in 
Siam benzoin, and is also made synthetically from eugenol by 
oxidation. Cumarin, found naturally in tonka ljcan, woodruff, 
and fresh hay, may be made artificially by the action of sali- 
eylaldehyde on sodium acetate. 

The extractives found in the plant kingdom contain many well- 
formed products having a decided effect on the taste, and which 
are for the most part bitter. Such are the alkaloids, as quinine, 
although the greater number are cathartic or poisonous in effect, 
so that they are chiefly used medicinally. The like is the case 
with the glncosides, although the taste of certain aromatic constit- 
uents depends upon them. They possess the property of being 
converted by suitable enzymes into a sugar and another aro- 
matic compound, for instance, amygdalin is converted by the en- 
zyme emulsin into grape sugar and benzaldehyde, the poisonous 
hydrocyanic acid being at the same time formed. In similar 
manner mustard oil is formed. Saponin and glycyrrhizin, which 
are both used as foam producers, are also glucosides. 

Lastly we must mention the group of true bitter extractives, 
which are chiefly found in the bitter drugs. Even the vegetable 
dyes are similar compounds, while the aniline dyes are obtained 
from coal tar. Furthermore, there are the albuminoids, such as 
albumin, pectin and mucin, and lastly the enzymes constituting 
the active component of the yeasts. 



PART III 

LABORATORY PRACTICE 

A. General Manufacturing Methods 

1. Expressing. 

2. Mixtures and Solutions. 

3. Extraction. 

(a) Extractives. 

(6) Extraction Methods. 

4. Distillation. 

(a) Principle of Distillation. 
(6) Rectification. 

(c) Fractional Distillation. 

(d) Dry Distillation. 

5. Fermentation. 

(a) Fermentation Phenomena. 

(6) Diseases and Faults of Fermented Liquids. 

6. Preserving. 

(a) The Object of Preserving. 
(6) Preservative Methods, 
(c) Sterilization. 

7. Sugar Products. 

8. Turbidity of Liquids, and Its Removal (by Filtering, Clarifying and 

Fining). 

9. Use of Wood Charcoal for Removing Taste and Dyes. 

B. Analytical Methods 

1. Temperature Conditions, Melting-, Boiling- and Solidifying-Points. 

2. Solubility. 

3. Specific Gravity. 

4. Extractive Determination. 

5. Acidimetry. 

(a) Determination of Acids. 
(6) Determination of Esters; Acetylization. 

45 



6. Shaking-out Methods. 

(a) Determining Higher Alcohols (Fusel Oil) in Liquor. 
(6) Determination of Aldehydes in Volatile Oils, 
(c) Phenol Determination. 

7. Sugar Determinations. 

(a) Determining Invert Sugar. 
(6) Determining Cane Sugar. 

8. Investigating Potable Waters. 

9. The Most Important Reactions of Chemicals. 

(a) Alkali Metals. 
(6) Earthy Alkalies. 

(c) Heavy Metals. 

(d) Reactions of Acids. 

(e) Organic Acids. 

10. Colorimetry (Color Tests). , 

11. Testing by Sense of Smell, Taste, etc. 



46 



PART III 

LABORATORY PRACTICE 

A. General Manufacturing Methods 

1. Expressing 

Among the simplest methods Ea that of expressing, i.e., the re- 
moval l>y mechanical pressure of any liquid contained in a sub- 
rtanoe. The; most turn! is the expression or parts of plants, and 




I 



■aeral view of a modern eswcnro iiiumifariuriiiB installation. 
:i Si .-iin li<>i|rT. («) Receiver oiid condenser. 

.' I'lriiifiihitLon kettle, if) Air pump. 

[<:) Stoun kettle, (g) PBter. 

i>/.i V 1'iiu :i])j)iir!itiiH. [!>) Alt tragi: tanks fur h\tu|), with coolers. 



the fruit juice industry is especially concerned with the employ- 
ment uf ilie press. The simplest forms of the press is the wine 
press, but in the fruit juice industry better forms are used in order 
to obtain the highest yield of juice possible. The main requisite 
in a press Is that, those parts that come into contact with the liquid 
should not be made of metal, because the presence of tannin in 
the plant juices gives rise to a discoloration, while at the same 
time the taste of the juice may be seriously impaired under cer- 
tain circumstances. Usually the fruit is placed in a cylindrical 
receptacle provided with press cloths, and the mass subjected to 
pressure by means of a stamper fitted to the receptacle. The 
oldest forms of presses are simply screw presses, but in the modem 



MANl'AI. HiK Till; KSSKNCK 1XDVSTRY 



presses the differential lever is employed, which, with the applic 
tion of little force, exert great power. The bent-lever f 
similarly. The ideal presses, however, are the hydraulic pre 
which exert a most tremendous power. The results of an e 
sion depend first upon the character of the press, and upon t 




force employed. The degree of ripeness of the fruit is also of 
importance. In general, the condition of maturity is best, be- 
? after this period the fruit becomes mealy in structure, and 
the juice partially dries out and affords a lower yield. The char- 
acter of the fruit must also be taken into consideration. The fruit 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 49 

is usually first comminuted, but it is well known that the coarser 
the comminution, the greater may l)e the resistance of the indi- 
vidual particles. Berry fruits with hard shells are first to be 
coarsely ground, because the leathery character often renders 
expression difficult. On the other hand, ground fruits are more 
difficult to express because they afford a mash which resists ex- 
pression. In this case only thin layers are expressed, and these 
are separated by wicker screens, which in turn offer resistance to 
pressure. Sometimes such mashes are mixed with chaff. Good 
yields are, at any rate, obtained by repacking such fruits, i.e., 
after the first expression, remixing and subjecting to a second 
pressure in altered layers. 

In general, fermented fruits afford a somewhat larger yield, 
Ijecause during the fermentation the cells are softened. When 
Comminuted berry fruits, or fermented fruit mashes, are intro- 
duced into the press cylinders, there is obtained, without any 
considerable pressure at all, a freely yielded juice which consti- 
tutes between 61 and 62% of the total yield. When now pres- 
sure is applied 23 to 33% of expressed juice is obtained. The 
press is now allowed to stand for some time, and then further 
pressure is applied, and this is repeated, whereby a further 6 to 
12%, and lastly 3 to 6% more juice, is obtained. The pure juice 
is designated as virgin juice, and obtained only to the extent of 
about 70% on the average; 1.5 to 20% juice remains behind in 
the residues, and this is recovered by the secondary expression, 
in which the residues are treated with water and again expressed. 
This supplementary juice is utilized in the fruit juice industry 
according to the requirements demanded. 

The smaller so-called tincture presses are used for expressing 
alcoholic macerates. The modern methods of percolation make 
this expression superfluous because in the expression residue a 
large quantity of alcohol remains and goes to waste, while not only 
is relatively much alcohol required, but above all, valuable extrac- 
tive matter remains behind. These small presses yield lit tie power, 
and are being replaced more and more by percolation methods. 

2. Mixtures and Solutions 

^fixlures are understood lo be combinations of various suli- 

stances to form a homogeneous whole, from which, however, they 

may be again separated by mechanical means. It is not. neces- 



Mm. 



60 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

sary that the substances be soluble, for then a solution would 
result. By solution is understood a perfectly uniform mixture of 
different substances which cannot be separated by decantation, 
straining or sedimentation. At most they may be to some extent' 
separable by distillation. Solutions differ from mixtures in that 
the former cannot be separated by simple mechanical means into 
their constituents, while they differ from chemical compounds 
in that their composition may be effected by any quantities de- 
sired of the constituents. In a solution, each constituent, accord- 
ing to its quantity, contributes to the characteristics of the liquid, 
and in general it is not necessary to differentiate between the dis- 
solved substance and the solvent. If the one is present in very 
large excess, it is usually designated as the solvent, and the solu- 
tion is then considered as being dilute. 

The solubility of various soluble substances is very varied and 
circumscribed with reference to any one solvent," and for any one 
substance in various solvents. With inorganic substances, solu- 
bility in alcohol is usually impossible, whereas the organic carbon 
compounds are generally soluble in alcohol and in ether, although 
the solubility usually decreases with increase in the number of 
carbon atoms. The solubility of a substance depends upon the 
nature of the solvent, and also upon the temperature. It is 
definite for every degree of temperature and for every solvent. As 
a typical example may be mentioned, the volatile oils, which are 
miscible with absolute alcohol in all proportions, but the solu- 
bility of which decreases with the decrease in alcohol strength. A 
higher temperature effects a more rapid and complete solubility, 
which is lessened as the temperature lowers. Thus solutions which 
are perfect while hot, precipitate a part of the dissolved substances 
when cooled, because solubility is decreased in the cold. This also 
takes place on adding water to solutions of volatile oils. These 
solubility limits are of importance in manufacturing, because they 1 
must be considered in the rational utilization of material. Solu- 
tions which can take up no more of the substance, are said to be 
saturated. Only under certain conditions can more concentrated 
solutions be obtained, and these are then designated as super- 
saturated. The solution of gases in liquids is called absorption, 
and it increases with decrease of temperature and increase of 
atmospheric pressure, which practical means are utilized in the 
manufacture of mineral waters. 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 51 

3. Extraction 

(a) Extractives 

The plant appropriates from its neighborhood its nutrients, 
which it conducts, by appropriate means, to the parts where they 
are utilized; at the same time water is also absorbed. The cell 
sap is hence loaded with a number of substances which are dis- 
solved thereto, and with these also the elimination products of 
the plant. The soluble matter in the cell sap is designated as the 
extractive content. In practice it is important to remove the 
excess of water. For this purpose we utilize first and foremost 
the drugs. On drying, the extractives are also partially dried, 
and remain in the cell. On now treating the latter with a solvent 
in excess, the extractive content of the cells dissolves therein, 
and upon this procedure is based the manufacture of a large num- 
ber of preparations used in the manufacture of essences. The 
simplest solvent is water, and as solubility is increased by temper- 
ature, by means of maceration and infusion, a liquid extract is 
obtained by the aid of boiling water, as in preparing coffee and 
tea. In other cases the extract yield is increased by the prolonged 
action of boiling water, as in decoctions. However, the character 
of the flavoring material is such that water cannot always serve as 
a solvent, because the substances originally dissolved in the cell 
sap are, when dried, not again soluble in water, but, as in the essence 
industry and for spirituous liquids alcohol is employed, the latter 
is utilized as a general solvent. An alcoholic extract of a drug, 
when moderately dilute, is called a tincture, and under this desig- 
nation is usually understood an extract made in the proportion of 
1:5. A more concentrated extract, 1:1, used particularly in 
pharmacy, is the fluid extract, which represents the extractive 
matter contained in an equivalent weight of drug. If from any 
extract, no matter whether made with water or with alcohol, the 
solvent is evaporated off, the isolated extractives remain as a 
residue. As the extractives tend to retain a more or less con- 
siderable quantity of water, the evaporation is usually carried out 
until the liquid has a honey-like consistency, and drops from the 
spatula with difficulty (inspissated extracts). When the last por- 
tions of the water are carefully driven off by drying in hot vessels 
in thin layers, a dry extract is obtained, which is reduced to powder 
form. Usually the latter is very hygroscopic, and hence requires 
to be kept in well-stoppered containers. 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 









(b) Extraction Method* 

The kind of solvent to be employed depends upon the character 
of the substance which is to be extracted, or upon which one it 
desired to isolate. Thus for coffee and tea water is used 
making the beverage, whereas for preparations to be kept aleol 
is employed. For essences alcohol is almost exclusively used, 
its strength depends upon the material as well as its power to 
as a solvent, as also with reference to its use later in manufac- 
turing, for which the essence to be made is to serve as an inter- 
mediate product. The essence is hence a stronger concentration 
of any given flavoring substance, which is rendered suitable for 
use by suitable dilution, or which is intended to be mixed with 
other preparations to serve as a popular beverage or food. For 
spirituous liquids an alcohol of 17° underproof is usually employed, 
and this dissolves most of the effective flavoring extractives, 
leaving behind the less valuable ones which, later, may readily 
give rise to turbidities in liquids. It is important, too, that n 
turbidity should not occur later on when diluting with alcohol. 
The chief methods depend upon maceration, i.e., extraction in the 
cold way; and digestion, with the aid of heat. It is a fact that 
heat greatly accelerates and facilitates extraction, but on cooling, 
the extract deposits those substances only soluble with the aid of 
heat. On the other hand heat is prone to easily change 
flavor, and in particular to impair the sensitive supplemental 
flavors, hence extraction by the cold way is the more highly prized. 
The maceration of drugs with alcohol is effected by pouring alcohol 
over the comminuted material, allowing the mixture to stand for 
a sufficient length of time at the ordinary temperature, and 
quently even with unnecessary stirring, the liquid being finall 
either drawn off or expressed off. In doing this, however, it 
impossible to prevent a part, of the solvent remaining in the di 
together with the extractive dissolved in it, and this constitui 
the disadvantage of this method. Even digestion does not o 1 
come this disadvantage. .The ideal method of extraction is m< 
certainly percolation, which is based upon endosmosis, and whii 
is carried out as follows: The drugs are first ground and stii 
with the solvent to form a thick magma, which is then introdm 
into a percolator. This should have a conical form, preferabl; 
because drugs are prone to swell, even after being thorougl 



; 



3 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 

moistened, and the pressure caused by such swelling may l>e suffi- 
cient to pack the drug so tightly as to prevent or seriously impair 
the passage of the solvent through the drug. On account of this 
swelling, too, the drug.-; arc always first moistened, and hence they 
are ground to a uniform degree of fineness, in order that, when 
packed in the percolator, no canals should form through which the 
solvent may run off without, exhausting the drug. The percolator 
being properly packed, alcohol of the desired percentage strength 
is poured on the drug to form a layer of about three to four 
inches, and the percolator is then covered. In about three days, 
the maceration may be considered at an end, and the solvent may 
be allowed to run off. The extraction may be considered as hav- 
ing proceeded as follows: The solvent penetrates the cell mem- 
brane to the cell center, where it becomes saturated with the 
extractive material it dissolves, and thus becomes specifically 
heavier and then diffuses through the membrane. Because of 
its greater specific gravity, the liquid sinks down, and even in the 
cell itself is replaced by a fresh portion of the solvent. There is 
thus formed a current within the cell, whereby the extract con- 
tent is rendered soluble and is completely dissolved out. When, 
after three days or so, the cock at the bottom of the percolator is 
opened, a concentrated extract runs off by drops. The liquid 
must be allowed to drop slowly so that the column of liquid may 
iave a constant though very slow movement downwards. The 
column of fresh solvent constantly pressing downward* washes 
iut the cells to a certain extent, and it will lie seen that the per- 
colate gradually becomes lighter in color because the extractive 
lubstances have all practically gone into solution. When the 
volume of solvent it has been intended to use has just passed the 
surface of the drug, a further quantity of the solvent, or even 
rater, is then poured on, in order to force out the solvent still in 
the drug, and thus obtain the definite volume of percolate desired. 
It would be wrong to assume that in every case the presence of a 
color in the later percolate portions would indicate insufficient 
exhaustion of the drug. The color is chiefly due to the effect of 
pigment-like vegetable dyes which have little to do with the 
extract content. The quantity of the solvent to be used varies 
;atly, and according as a lower or higher degree of eoncentra- 
ion of extract is desired. Usually the percolate is divided into 
t first run, corresponding to about So% of the quantity of drug 







64 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

worked, and a secondary percolate which may be as large as 
may be necessary to fully exhaust the drug, and which is then 
concentrated, by distillation and evaporation, down to about 
15% of the quantity of drug worked; the extract so obtained is 
then mixed with the portion first reserved, thus obtaining a fluid 
extract, one part of which contains the extractives represented by 
one part of drug. From the method, it will be seen that it is use- 
less to stir the magma of drug and solvent. The method of per- 
colation is employed in most of the extraction methods for the 
formulas given later on. 

The extraction of large quantities, as of pharmaceutical ex- 
tracts, or of dye woods, is usually effected in suitable extractors 
which are adapted to effect complete exhaustion of the extractives 
with the least amount of solvent. This is most advantageously 
accomplished by means of the battery system. The crude com- 
minuted material is packed into a number of percolators which 
communicate with one another in such a manner that the contents 
of any one vessel runs off from the bottom on to the surface of the 
next vessel. The solvent is added gradually, so that it is drawn 
down through the material from top to bottom, whereby the drug 
is leached out. The extract percolate from the first vessel serves 
for extracting the drug in the second, and this is carried out to 
any extent desired, until from the last vessel there is obtained a 
most highly concentrated solution. The first vessel, which is now 
fully exhausted, is then cut out from the series, and a freshly 
charged vessel is included to form the last of the series, and the 
extraction is continued as before. In this manner the last vessel 
always yields a concentrated extract, which may be still further 
concentrated by evaporation. The process may be accelerated 
by the employment of pressure, which also facilitates intercom- 
munication. This method is usually employed for extractions 
with cold or luke warm water, in the beverage industry, e.g., in 
the exhaustion of dried fruits (manufacture of pomril). 

For making alcoholic extracts, the so-called extractor is employed. 
This apparatus is based upon the use of the smallest feasible 
quantity of liquid which, with the aid of heat, is made to contin- 
uously exhaust the substance from above downwards. Any form 
of still will serve for this, provided that the still cover is provided 
with a condensing apparatus which condenses the vapors and per- 
mits the condensate to fall back on the substance before reaching 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 55 

the condenser. The cover of the still, which serves at the same 
time as a condenser, must be of the same diameter as the widest 
diameter of the still or kettle. The material is placed upon a 
sieve diaphragm, beneath which is the extraction liquid. The 
vapors pass through the material from below upwards, whereby 
the cells are warmed and moistened. On reaching the cover 
condenser, the vapors are condensed and the condensate drops 
back upon the material and exhausts the latter from above down- 
wards so that from the sieve diaphragm a liquid enriched by ex- 
tract drips, the liquid being again transformed into vapor, the 
process being thus continuous. There must finally arrive a period 
when all the extract has been removed from the material. For 
purposes of convenience the liquid is then distilled off, simply 
removing the cover condenser, whereby the liquid extract of the 
concentration desired may then be run off through the cock. By 
passing live steam directly through the material any alcohol 
retained by the latter may be regained. Thorough extraction re- 
quires that the quantity of alcohol used must pass through the 
material five times, i.e., with a charge of 1 cwt., 2 cwt. of liquid 
must be used, of which 1 cwt. is absorbed by the drugs while the 
other cwt. does the extracting. Assuming that the speed per 
hour of distillation is one-half cwt. distillate, the extraction would 
have to be carried on for ten hours in order that 5 cwt. of liquid 
may have passed through the material. 

Another method of extraction is, in a certain sense, that of 
shaking out. In this method the object is to remove from liquids 
certain substances dissolved therein. For this purpose it is neces- 
sary that the shaking-out liquid be not only a decidedly better 
solvent, but also insoluble in the liquid to be treated. In practice 
aqueous or alcoholic liquids containing aromatic substances are 
shaken with chloroform, benzin, benzene, carbon tetrachloride 
or similar liquids into which the aromatic substances pass over. 
By distilling off the solvent, the aromatic substance is isolated in 
concentrated form. This method is employed for isolating aro- 
matic oils. 

4. Distillation 

(a) Principle of Distillation 

Distillation is primarily only the conversion of a liquid into 
vapor, and condensation of the vapor by cooling into liquid form 






Florer. 
stipen 
place 



56 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

again. If the liquid is a solution of solid substances, or a solutio 
of extractive substances, the solid constituents remain in the still, 
and only the medium distils over. If the liquid also contains 
volatile constituents, such as a volatile oil, these are also converted 
by the heat into vapor which mixes with the vapors of the medium 
and are carried over by them, so that the distillate will be a mix- 
ture of the medium and the volatile substances. Finally, dis- 
tillation is also resorted to for separating mixtures or solutions of 
two liquids by reason of the difference in their boiling-points. As 
is well known, every liquid has a characteristic boiling-point, and 
during distillation the first liquid to pass over is the one having 
the lower boiling-point. On distilling a hydro-alcoholic mixture 
there is always obtained first an alcoholic distillate of decidedly 
higher alcohol strength than the original mixture. The alcoholic 
strength, however, gradually decreases because water vapor also 
passes over, while in the still itself only water remains. By care- 
ful rectificalion it is quite possible to more narrowly draw the line 
when fractionations are to be made. The principle here involved 
ia that the vapors are subjected to a partial cooling whereby the 
vapors of the liquids of higher boiling-points are partially con- 
densed, as they do not require any great degree of cooling, and 
thus only the vapors of the liquids that boil more easily reach the 
condenser where they are condensed. The rectification of alco- 
hol, and also fractional distillation, are based upon this principle. 
The principle governing distillation remains always the same, 
and it is only the apparatus that may vary. For ordinary pur- 
poses a simple apparatus may be used, consisting of a still provided 
with a tube connected with a condenser. The condenser should 
be provided with a return tube so as to render possible the return 
of the condensate, as it leaves the condenser, to the still, as is 
required in extracting, for instance. Thus, too, when distilling 
drugs with alcohol the drugs are exhausted far more rationally if 
distillation alone is not practiced, but if the contents of the still 
are rendered more completely exhaustible by a preliminary ex- 
traction. If volatile oils are obtained in free form during a dis- 
tillation, they are collected in a Florence flask, and in this ease a 
reflux condenser must surely be used because the contents of the 
Florence flask are constantly being returned to the still while the 
supernatant volatile oil is retained, Vacuum distillation takes 
place under reduced atmospheric pressure and a corresponding 



LABOKATOKY PRACTICE 57 

lower temperature; and in fact the Ixjiling-point is lowered by 
about 100° F. by a reduction of pressure to 700 to 720 mm. The 
advantages in distillation in vacuo are that aromatic substances 
can be obtained which are easily changed at a boiling temper- 
ature; moreover this form of distillation greatly accelerates the 
process because the vaporization is rendered decidedly more rapid 
by the removal of the moist vapors, utilizing for this purpose 
liquids which are of no value as end products, e.g., as when mak- 
ing fruit juices and marmalades, using the so-called injection con- 
densation, in which the condensate is not collected. On the other 
hand, with the so-called superficial condensation, the condensate 
is collected (see Part IV, Essence Manufacture). 

(6) Rectification 
Rectification, in principle, is but a repeated distillation; e.g., 
on distilling a mash there is first obtained a weakly alcoholic 
liquid, which, subjected to subsequent distillation, i.e., rectifica- 
tion, yields a more concentrated alcoholic liquid. Rectification 
is also used for the purpose of removing less valuable constit- 
uents, by changing the receiver when they are more volatile, or by 
Eofleotmg them in the last portion of the distillate or in the residue 
remaining in the still itself. The separation of the first, middle and 
after runs is hence a crude form of fractional distillation. The 
separation is effected by means of the usual distilling apparatus, 
but of course with a correspondingly low degree of sharpness, so 
that with certain products it is frequently necessary to resort to a 
subsequent rectification. 

(c) Fractional Distillation 
As already stated, the separation of the liquid constituents of a 
homogeneous solution may t>e effected by means of the difference 
in the boiling-points of the liquids, if for this purpose there is used 
satisfactory apparatus provided with obstacles of such character 
as to separate as well as possible the vapor mixture of liquids 
having approximately like boiling-points. For this purpose is 
used the columnar arrangement comprising any desired number 
of unit obstacles. As a further obstacle there is also interposed 
an intermediate condenser, and in every case the more easily con- 
densable constituents are condensed and returned to the still. 
The boiling-point of the final condensate is always more constant, 






nml t Iii b product \h pijr»rr. Hi^rv-:. :: > iL?o --x^s&ry :r.a: 
I |n* ln»iliiiK-|HiifjtK of ii& ..viii-- ->- s_~r ^'.ai.:* apar.. ::: -.r.a: 
I line should iilw»iy h<- * l^rs- iifvrer.:^ .:. ::.r :«iper*:u:** at 
which lli«- individual fra^::o:-il ::.•--> -^. x-ieiijo-i. =o :•::»: r.y 
mnl rolling llif Vii \ H,r t/ --'-r^-- " ->- - '"— ?^>i---- r-vfore the latu-r 

niii'lii'M I In* liiMt. curid'-n-rr. :ii- :. -:_:y .: ::.•- pr^iuo: may :* in- 
sured. In Hi 1 ' l , *' , l | " ori T * r ' : — " : - ------ ?:\>iuc:s o- i"*** 1 oi! will 

Ik* round utif of th'- rno7- ..:;.:;..:. ;: :r^_: locations, arranged 
MiviihlniK I" iHiiliiiK-I^" 1 ^ ■-» - * v ^-** y-^- •■"•• I- '-■* isanufacture 
ill ouiccnl ruled or n-rprr*'^ ...il- :r^:::o:i: a ::or. i* also employe! 
when I hey im«' rcHihcd wi- :.«/;: ::. :-.: : o: w : »:or or alcohol. The 

'iwmIioii "I I' 11 - nrht ' ;ifl '* "~~" ru:: " "" ~ , ^ >: "- :i: i° n ** ^^ a lnK "" 
n,»imln«i. whirli in f.V. r:^y a«or-: sharply defined separate 

(,/j l)ry or IM-Arnt \* DUtiilitfion 

ll t|| ( ii understood th" h'-ating uf <ut'stanees to a red heat 
» .ii.. niiiiilcivni^nt of anv medium, wherebv the aqueous 

\\e.lU*lU <u« ,M| , . . , - * 11 l • j 

Mitliiiniug decomj>o-mon products oi all kinds, are 
" V i * m off Tin* manufacture uf illuminating gas and the 
* v * ' % i t .«l illti I iciii of wood an* examples of this process. The 
^v%;u\» inirn'Miiifi U'caiw it affords wood vinegar as a 

*_, « *" «j*\*|l"| " •! 11111 1 

% * * . . I11..1 rcitit;iirnrj(r art-tic acid, inethvl alcohol and 

* v ' i . Uxv ivnuiiiih in tin- p-idue in the retort. The dry 

* %v% %w ' 1 a |Y p|M th'- raw material for a series of the most 

:v * nV ' ,,. ..(iiiinoimd-. from benzene to the most com- 






«** 



fi. Kkkmkntatiox 



» U uimhi the decomposition of organic com- 

c.-^-*-^^ v % ^- ,. M|| . H /.<, Hindi organic compounds, in fact, 

^. --. .* % *- ,,sV ^ ^ ^^ Hiinpl f ' r eomiK)iinds. Fermentation 

^*C , »-^ , ^ v, ' x " '' .f frriiieiifirig sugars, rotting, decay, 

^v.-*^ ^ tVnucntation 111 the narrower sensc% 

^ ,.^^>*^ v » ^* srfl , industry, coiimsIs in the deeomposi- 

.. -'*^ '* S J j^xeiiliAlol l>y t ll( * resulting products, as 

», . --*s*^ * lv > * % acids, ii» 1(< l><'etiiiou.s fermentation. 

. % « •. "" "* %v ; ^ f riucntati()ii of allmminoid sub- 

*■ *w »'* rf> * v . f orl iiation of volatile, mal- 



odorous deeornposaiicc. jfaiura. "*"? t~ ~nn— — wr nnrr fit 
the fermentation tfi«nad ty a& ui£ if MOnaira. Jaaueus lt* 
nitrogenous subaaares ^rausL. nnas- 3z*uul crrmnsauistr. et» 
capable, by their mere 7^— eax tujie. x atuanic vjk a^jnaui- 
tion of organic sibsAzos nouKC "i wm " --~ ini-uf*"T ir Kt T 
apparent change. T^ey suit nsn:* ".« smunim 1= sa^rm?. 
We differentiate berot mugmaei. jsui :anw: x xnaiaw 
ferments. The latter Ut zi:aa£ x ijnisem. j: Tiua tk^ snuJ 
quantities are reqrdrvi Vj xffimcKiM jaaa 3HU.~'jh it aspja.- 
poaable materiaL faeeaose r s. 'aer ^rj =uai Ziur-^iimTJiiL. li 
order, however, to mainag s*sr jb* ■wxx tn; ;r.»r*r x" sturxxr- 
ing. the p resen c e of nnreeerin:!* 5:c*2* tn: a.tim: !*».-.* j- uwbf- 
sary. The action of i£«* xiastaw: 5fr=ia."<- '.-.cssja - .* ^. ~J* 
elaboration of the so-caZwi -eKspina.. wars, trt »>itt- •■-■■-" ko- 
pounds having the es^siu. k*ji x f^T^L.-* Tz'jf-. i~-t in- 
stance, Hifm«p couvw",- SLarti i.«& iffcz. t^i ■••■»,'- ji jt: Tut 
invertase contained m east pia=.t* sjcr.4 st^»»- sagar j^-: cv* 
and fruit sugar. Zymase k :i*- ;»*» x' Lj'TXj^j: :«=i*=.*.itjx- 
as it splits grape sugar into «iyi k^iaii t^ii la^tc ij-.xiit. aa: 
on this action is baaed the -TAr.-Jtfzzn x i^v.Ci.i i^i -^tr-Taio* 
beverages. Fermentation i* aZ-war* iirriavii -7 y=a.«:. a ff*^. ;c 
fungus having characterise? :>-: few Ttrwrj-f "•.■n *rj~ *— :-L- 
tivation and development c. par* eirirt zsay "*.* -■->..-^< : ™. «•> 
less subvariettes of which eer*.ah. o&w ir: ;;»:£ ilxo.- t.h :^% 
by-formation of fennentatkie: ypjiyrj-. ■£ ±rjci±:'.:- 'iiri-i'W 
to which the name "bouquet"" i; e~*e_ aai wiZ;i ir^jiiTr i 
decided character to the rahm* '*_e/T^rie^. Y^sst :r.;Z*:pIi*s 
partly by branching, partly ar*J e»t* m^'jc: *y *p»:r* forz_i:>>:.. 
After a certain quantity of alcohol ias i'jgsjA. "* ya.~: :«*.-** :o 
multiply, but continues to cause Ivtza£.'a'.¥j^. a^i ',l^t wLea 
the fermentation is at an end. acd all nuTiki.*. i^s::er pr=t*L-. Li- 
been spb't up as food, does trie yeast di^ of * '.u&t. h. ord«r to 
maintain fermentation it is most importer:* tta" *.£* bwr -mitahl'- 
nutrient be present. For thi= purpose there are tx-mJ liirogenoua 
organic products, such as asparagin. pectin, etc.. as w«:Il a? inor- 
ganic salts, particularly such as the ammonium sali.s and phos- 
phates. Further, the temperature must be such at which the 
yeast may develop; and it averages 65 to 77 s F. 

Alcoholic fermentation is employed in making fruit juices, to 
which wine also belongs. The fruits themselves have sufficient 



60 



MANl'AI, H>R TIIK KKSKN'CK INIH'STHY 



yeast to initiate fermentation. Fermentation sets in sponta 
ously, but these so-called wild yeasts are prone easily to create 
disturbances, or may give rise to diseases, hence pure yeast is 
always used, i.e., cultures of certain favorable strains possessing 
special fermentative powers, and which repress the action of the 
wild yeasts. The initial stage of the fermentation, or main fer 
mentation, is turbulent in character, being accompanied by I 
formation of a frothy scum on the surface, because the formatio 
of alcohol is accompanied by the separation of insoluble pectin- 
ous substances. After the major portion of the carbon dioxid* 
has been evolved, the fermentation becomes quieter, the I 
ary fermentation then setting in, during which the last portioi 
of the sugar are fermented. The Fermentation reaches its natui 
limit when about 15% of alcohol has formed, because alcohol is 
a poison to fermentation, and prevents the latter from continuing. 
Besides alcohol, there arc formed a number of other substances, 
which we designate as fusel oil, and which afford the "bouquet." 
In addition, sonic glycerin and succinic acid are formed. On 
the whole, two parts of sugar afford one part pure alcohol, and 
hence, knowing the sugar content of the mash, the yield of alcohol 
may be estimated. According to Pasteur, 100 parts of cane 
sugar yield on an average 48.4% alcohol, 46.6% carbon dioxide, 
3.3% glycerin, 0.6% succinic acid and 1.1% fusel oil and yes 
substances. 

Disturbances of fermentation may lx> occasioned by i 
factory temperatures, lack of nutrients for the yeast, the occuj 
rence of acetous fermentation, by the presence of an exes 
sugar, and lastly by the alcohol limit having been reached. 
disturbance can be removed only by removing the cause. 
acetous fermentation occurs, its cause is very difficult to remov* 
The bacteria must then be removed by pasteurization, and t 
fermentation initiated again by means of a pure yeast. 
acetous fermentation, it is well known, is very prone to ace 
pany alcohol fermentation. It is caused by the acetic acid t 
teria which are almost always present, but which require 0x3 
for their development. The formation of acetic acid can 1 
place only with free access of air. hence when preserving ferment* 
liquids the access of air must be prevented as much 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 01 

(6) Aimukts ami Faults of FenurnUxt Liquids 
Tb* true ditatrs are those changes caused bj mifi ■ >■■■ 
We speak at faults, when the changes in (fat iimquvsitiim of ■ 
leverage have not reached a point where they give rise to |vr- 
manent deterioration. 

Rapines* is caused by a mold which requires Ugygan tui fa 
development, and which is usually found on Dm surface ol Um 
liquid, but which gradually sinks to the bottom and tn«\ lender 
ihe liquid turbid. The action of tin- mold OOOOSta in further 
splitting the alcohol into carbon dioxide and wiiler. It is \en 
sensitive to alcohol, and does not develop in liquid* DOUtaioillg 
over 10% alcohol. The mold is moat rapidly killnl bj pouiiuj 
strong alcohol over it, when on the BttrfaOB, 

Acetous fermentation ia ;» very frequenl fault in fermente,] 
liquids, and H is the more serious, when not nil the sugar is fer- 
mented, because the latter serves as a nutrient for the Imelei'ta. 
At all events the acetic acid content is covered by R high i ontenf 

uf extract, alcohol, sugar and tannin, and up to n.-" , moid mny 

then be present, though at times the presence '>r II. I 1 , lostfo 
acid is evident on tasting. Neutralisation of the acetic ami li 
not feasible, because the other acids may also Ite neutralised. 
The prevention of the continued formation can on!\ be effected 
by pasteurization. 

Luetic fcrmrnlatiaii occurs In acid-poor juices, in (hut the .sugar 
is converted by the lactic acid bacilli partially into butio ;hi>I. 
and even the malic acid present in non-acid wines i.s split up by 
the bacteria to form lactic acid, and thereby a reduction in acidity 
is effected particularly in wines and fruit wines. In seriOUS oasM 
the wine acquires a strong odor, and required to be pasteurized 
and refermented with the aid «( a pure yeast. 

Among the most characteristic diseases 'if fermented juioBf, 
particularly wines and fruit wines, is ropiness. The fluid char- 
acter of the liquid is lost, and the liquid becomes mucilaginous in 
consistency, and to such an extent in fact as to yield threads on 
pouring. The cause is mold, and the ropiness develops in fer- 
mentation products that contain but little tannin. As a rule, the 
product requires in he whipped, whereupon the mucilaginous 
particle- subside on the addition of fining agents; and in addition 
tannin has to be added. 

The souring of fermented liquids is of itself a noraw 1 ' "line- 



60 



MAM'AL loi. 



Z\X -MwSTHV 



yeast to initiate forme 1 !-.', 
ously, but these so-called 
disturbances, or may give 
always used, i.e., cultures 
special fermentative pow« ■• 
wild yeasts. The initial - : 
mentation, is turbulent in 
fonnation of a frothy scum 
of alcohol is accompanied ?■■ 
ous substances. After the 
has been evolved, the fenv 
ary fermentation then setn- 
of the sugar are fermented, 
limit when alwut 15% of ;?' 
a poison to fermentation, an ' 
Besides alcohol, there are f»»- 
which we designate a* fusel ^' 
In addition, some glycerin • 
the whole, two parts of stur 
hence, knowing the sugar vow 
may l>c estimated. Acoor««- 
sugar yield on an average '• s - 
3.3% glycerin, 0.0% surcini. *"" 
substances. 

Disturbances of fcrmcuian.' 
factory temperatures, lark oi 
rence of acetous fcnnontuii<» • "* 
sugar, and lastly by the 1 alc<«*. 
disturbance can bo rcmuv. - 
acetous fermentation oem:*. h •?* 
The bacteria must then K «•• *" 
fermentation initiated uiinj!. * 
acetous fermentation, it \< u< 
pany alcohol fermentation, i* • 
teria which are almost always 
for their development. Tin- i»» 
place only with free access of a. 
liquids the access of air »• 
possible. 



..^•^ ««?- ! v "' , =" it occurs at a time 

_ «**!. -" clear, it has again 

^ r [\ih to albumin, or alhu- 

^ ?»s :r bacteria, which de- 

^. " -21? disease also belongs 

^a. rt^ci particularity colorless 

^ ^f-» ir black, in contact with 

.^pj iicwit a blackish proeipi- 

- r~*nee of iron and tannin, 

m ■. stance most frequently, 

-. . To correct this there is 

, :x* addition of more tannin 
-rs»uue time it is recommended 
,. . ^r«acin. Another disease is 
.usance, of lemon juice. This 
^^v-called oxydases which are 
a n-ci become converted into 
.. vaich yield coloring matter 
r ***** which fruit juices some- 
Ai<uh\* rich in tannin, and in 
^ «tih milk, and if necessary 
a rftvnce is the development of 
, j* Tuit wines. This seriouslv 
. A rpulsivo after taste, due to 
..j# result from an improper 
u< too long in contact with 
^_ to remove, although it may 
' » jwrcoal. Lastly, the moldy 
" * nientioned. This fault. 
1— t easily than it can be re- 
^gpnent of moldy casks. It 



it must be removed bv 

ithed most effect uallv bv 

^ is very prone t« remove 



mnting 

lotion after a more or less 
^<rf preservation the dete- 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 63 



i« »i 



mi ion may be postponed for a long period. The problems of 

.>:"Si-rviLtive methods lie in commercial and hygienic domains, and 

^r.* concerned with the prevention of injury to the health, which 

> ;y be caused by the ingestion of spoiled foods. The cause of 

;.<- decomposition itself is microorganisms, which not only develop 
•!:•■ external phenomena of decomposition, but develop from al- 
< 'lininoids substances closely allied to the poisonous ptomaines. 

The preservative method must be adapted to the character of 
the nutrient, the chief object being the destruction of the bacteria 
or organisms, or the prevention of their further development. 
For their growth are required a temperature of 50 to 1 15° F., access 
of air and presence of water. If one of these requisites for life 
is absent, any bacteria present cannot develop and give rise to 
i lie phenomena attendant on their growth. Such an effect, how- 
■ *.t, may also be obtained by means of certain chemicals, the 
so-called antiseptics, which exert their effect according to their 
c:i:tracter and the quantity used. In the employment of .such sub- 
ji.uiccs, however, it is important that they be non-injurious to 
,i.o human being, or at least are so in the minimum quantities 
j ^quired. 

It is necessary that the decision of the public be made easier 
■•.< to whether a nutrient is pure or has been in any way preserved, 
'■'\id in so far as this is not evident from the designation or charac- 
•<r of the product, it is to be declared, and in fact the character 
• if the substance used should be stated, so far as it does not relate 

• i inoffensive substances such as sugar, vinegar, oil and sterilized 
products. 

(6) Preservative Method* 

The simplest preservative method is that of the withdrawal of 
water by drying, by which means our drugs and dried fruits are 
prepared. We are more concerned with the manufacture of 
stable preparations by heating, partly with, partly without, 
simultaneous inspissation, in open or closed vessels. Further- 
more, in the case of fruit juices, cooling and freezing also come into 
consideration. 

As additions to stable products a number of various substances 
may be used, the employment of which must depend upon their 
practical value or eligibility within definite limits. 

A simple method of preservation consists in the addition of 
alcohol, and this is adapted particularly for fruit juices which are 



64 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

intended for subsequent use in alcoholic beverages. Bacteria 
cannot live in an alcohol of 42° underproof. The employment of 
alcohol for non-alcoholic beverages, however, is very trouble- 
some, because even though the alcohol may be distilled off, a 
loss of flavor occurs also. 

Sugar is also used as a preservative, and in fact its action de- 
pends upon the principle of dehydration, because the quantity of 
sugar used approaches almost the saturation-point, and abstracts 
the quantity of water necessary for solution from the substance 
to be preserved. Among the preparations so preserved are the 
fruit syrups, jellies and marmalades. The pouring of a layer of 
fat or oil on the surface of nutrients is to prevent the access of 
air, but this is utilized only for nutrients of animal origin, which is 
also the case in preserving by means of salt, saltpeter, borax, 
boric acid, sulphurous acid and sulphites, alkalies, chlorates and 
dithionates, hydrogen peroxide and copper salts. Sulphurous 
acid is most practically employed for sulphurizing the casks before 
placing in them the easily decomposable substances. For our 
purposes, the preservatives in question comprise a number of 
acids, such as hydrofluoric, salicylic and benzoic acids. The 
acids all exert an antiseptic action, which, in the case of some, 
particularly the inorganic acids, is quite pronounced, but yet 
most of them cannot be used because of their toxicity. Even 
acetic acid will kill yeast. 

The oldest preservative is without doubt salicylic acid, which, 
even today, is freely used in domestic practice. It is a natural 
constituent of a large number of fruits, such as strawberries, rasp- 
berries, etc., on which it is now believed that the substance also 
exerts a certain preservative action. As the wholesomeness of 
fruits, even though they contain salicylic acid naturally, cannot be 
questioned, it is not at all likely that the acid will have any in- 
jurious action on human health when employed within suitable 
limits. Such limit may be assured as 0.05%. However, medical 
authorities are not all agreed on this point, hence the use of the 
acid is forbidden in many countries. 

Formic acid is found as such not only in ants, but in honey, 
which may be assumed to contain 0.11% on an average. Never- 
theless, the action of formic acid on the internal organs, and par- 
ticularly on the kidneys, is questionable, because it is eliminated 
unchanged from the system, and hence medical authorities are 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 65 

inclined to the belief that it is injurious to health. Where it is 
permitted, the highest limit b 0.25%, calculated on the pure acki 
Its employment is very convenient as the quantities to be used 
are so easfly controlled. Formic acid belongs, further, to the 
volatile acids, and some of it is lost on boiling liquids containing it. 
Besides it must be remembered that in the course of time it forms 
an ester with the alcohol used for preserving fruit juices, whereby 
its effectiveness is naturally impaired, which hence renders ueces- 
sary a frequent control of the stock preserved. 

Benzoic add has also been found in many fruits, particularly 
in the cranberry and strawberry. Its power as a preservative 
is about that of salicylic acid, and the greatest quantity to be used 
is also to be placed at 0.05%. The bensoates act similarly, as 
the free acid is liberated in acid liquids. Mention must also be 
made of hydrofluoric acid, of which 0.017% calculated on the 
pure acid, or 0.04% of the technical (about 45%) acid, is sufficient. 
This acid, however, is not entirely unobjectionable as a preserv- 
ative, and it could not well be used were it not precipitable as a 
calcium salt by the addition of chalk, the insoluble calcium fluoride 
precipitating out. The preservation with hydrofluoric acid con- 
stitutes therefore an intermediate stage with which the consuming 
public has nothing to do directly, but which concerns only stock 
goods from which the acid is to be removed before such goods are 
used. 

The method of preservation by inspissation depends upon de- 
hydration. The extractives are concentrated, and no longer servo 
as a nutrient medium decomposable by bacteria. The purpose 
of the inspissated nutrients is to afford again on the addition of 
water a preparation which, in regard to taste, odor and other 
properties, should fully resemble the food product before it is 
inspissated. Sugar is also largely used at the same time as a 
thickening agent. 

(c) Sterilization 

The numerous methods of sterilization depend upon the action 
of heat on food products whereby the bacteria in or about them 
are destroyed, and also upon preventing the access of any other 
decomposition organisms during the preservation of the sterilized 
substance. The first of these methods was proposed in 1809 by 
Appert, who boiled the food product for some time, then intro- 
duced it into glass or tin vessels which were heated for * *»mo 



Go" MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

in a boiling water-bath ami then perfectly scidcd liefore 
ature of 212° F. had been reached. 

Later on, Pasteur introduced the method of preserving liquid 
food products by the process now known as pasteurization. In 
this method the liquids are not heated much above 140° F., in 
order to prevent the development of an undesirable by-taste. 
Most of the sterilization methods are baaed on this method, the 
greatest value of which consists in that any subsequent action of 
bacteria is prevented by the absolute exclusion of air. This is 
accomplished most surely by using glass or tin vessels, and even 
with wooden containers provided these are made absolutely air- 
tight. The various methods in use are described fully in 
Part IV. 

There remains only to be mentioned that sterilization at the 
temperature given and for a period of half an hour suffices to 
kill all bacteria, but that certain varieties of resistant germs, and 
particularly the developmental stage of bacteria, the spores, are 
not destroyed. It is possible, however, that these will have 
developed within about two days, and hence it is advisable to 
repeat the operation after two days in order to make the stei 
nation thorough. 

7. Suuak Products 

Sugar is one of the most important of food products, and serves 
in most cases as a taste corrigent, as it improves the taste of the 
most varied natural products. Cane sugar is almost exclusively 
used as a sweetener, as the cheaper grape sugar or glucose serve 
only as substitutes or as thickeners, as for instance in marmalades 
and jellies. As is well known, cane sugar is converted by the 
action of invertase into the so-called invert sugar, which is pre- 
dominantly present in fruits. This inversion, however, may also 
be effected by the hydrolytic action of ackts, e.g., by fruit acids, 
when these are boiled with sugar for some time. For practical 
purposes a sugar or fruit syrup is usually made by boiling (JO to 
65 parts of sugar with 35 to 40 parts of water or fruit juice. A 
trade form of liquid sugar, designated liquid mJHnadr, with a sugar 
content of about 80%, is made by boiling 80 parts by weight of 
cane sugar and 30 parts by weight of water, with the addition of 
an acid, until inversion is effected. For example, 0.25% of pure 
phosphoric acid suffices for this purpose, the inverted syrup Ijeinj 



i to 
rili- 



LABORATOKY PRACTICE 67 

then evaporated down to 100 parts by weight. On the large manu- 
facturing scale the indifferent carbon dioxide is used instead of 
phosphoric acid. 

More recently the cold process of dissolving sugar to make an 
approximately 66% syrup has been introduced, the special appa- 
ratus for this being shown in Fig. 3. By means of a layer of porous 
filtering material the permeability of the sugar, which with the 
water is placed in the upper part of the apparatus, is regulated, 
so that a syrup of approxi- 
mate 1 y uniform strength 
constantly drops into the re- 
ceiver. Although this proc- 
ess is not particularly rapid, 
yet it is adapted for supple- 
mentary use where large 
quantities of sugar are not 
required to be handled. The 
process is especially useful for 
fruit juices because by opera- 
ting in the cold the flavor is 
retained better, amino separa- 
tion of albuminous substances 
occurs. It is particularly ad- 
vantageous for syrup made 
from lemon juice, which is 
very sensitive to heat, and 
for which therefore the cold 
process is preferable. 

For syrups that have to Fio. 3. Sugar 
meet the requirements of the B, sugar t 
pharmacopoeias this method r*"" 01 
cannot be employed. 

As is well known, honey, 
the product of the bee, consists chiefly of grape sugar, and in the 
manufacture of artificial honey, the raw material, cane sugar, is 
inverted in the usual manner, and from the syrup so obtained 
there separates in the cold crystalline scales of grape sugar which 
differs little from honey in nutrient value. The taste and flavor 
are usually imparted by adding true honey flavoring, e.g., honey 
flavoring oil, and coloring to suit. To inferior grades there is also 




disaolver (Bamicand'H). 
, arranged for sua- 






68 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

added some ordinary glucose, or even powdered cane sugar, in 
order to impart a better consistency. 

It must be mentioned, further, that inversion takes place only 
at the boiling temperature. There then form levulose and glucose; 
the latter, being the less soluble, gives rise, in highly concentrated 
liquids, and particularly in the cold, to the crystallization observed 
in fruit juices. In this, however, a number of other circumstances 
take part, and which probably are owing to the nature of the juice. 
In the manufacture of fruit syrups, hence, it is necessary to main- 
tain a boiling temperature for as brief a period as possible, and to 
cool the boiled syrup rapidly. Syrups that have crystallized may 
be restored to their proper condition by reheating with the addi- 
tion of a small quantity of water. 

When sugar, or glucose, is heated to above 360° F., there forms 
sugar coloring, or caramel. This is an amorphous mass, no 
longer sweet or capable of being fermented, and of intensely brown 
color and characteristic empyreumatic taste. Its manufacture 
is effected in large kettles with not too large a charge, and with 
careful regulation of the temperature in order to avoid burning 
the product, which would impair the solubility of the caramel. 
As a rule the raw caramel is dissolved in water to purify it by sedi- 
mentation and filtration, the liquid being then evaporated in vacuo 
to the consistency of an extract. It is thus marketed as vinegar 
coloring, which must be perfectly soluble in water. This quality, 
however, is rendered soluble in spirituous liquids by treatment 
with alcohol. Thus sugar coloring to be used in the alcohol in- 
dustry is dissolved in alcohol of 20° overproof, and the solution 
filtered and evaporated. This kind of caramel, called rum color- 
ing, must dissolve in liquids of 20° overproof strength without 
the slightest residue. Sugar coloring is used as a coloring in all 
cases where tar dyes are inadmissible, and particularly in the 
liqueur industry, because its characteristic empyreumatic taste 
desirably rounds out the taste of the preparations. 

8. Turbidity of Liquids, and Its Removal 

It is necessary that, to the eye, most of the leverages consumed 
must be perfectly clear and transparent. The inferiority of a 
leverage not strictly clear and transparent is not due in any way 
to any injurious action or other material inferiority possessed by 
a turbid beverage per se, but is due to the psychological effect on 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 69 

the eye. It is for this reason that beverages are taken preferably 
from transparent vessels, as both the imagination and appetizing 
appearance already combine to enhance the value of the beverage. 

Turbidities may owe their origin to the most varied causes, 
and in order to remove them it is necessary to ascertain the causes. 
In all cases there are mechanical separations due to some substance 
not having completely dissolved or, when dissolved, having been 
precipitated from the solution by any cause whatever. According 
to the degree of separation we differentiate between a more or less 
dense turbidity or an opalescence. The removal of the turbidity 
may be effected in all cases by filtration, in that the liquid is passed 
through some substance the pores of which mechanically retain 
the particles causing the turbidity. This suffices for the more 
or less dense turbidities, using for this purpose filter paper or 
paper pulp, or cellulose; for the coarser mechanical impurities 
straining through flannel or other fabric even suffices. For this 
there is employed the so-called filtering bag or felt hat, wherein 
the mechanical impurities are retained while the clear liquid runs 
off. A combination of such fabrics form the Holland filter. In 
this, a number of filtering tubes are contained in a cylindrical 
vessel, the tubes being filled by means of a common reservoir, the 
liquid running off being returned until the filtrate runs off clear. 
The clearest filtrates are obtained by means of filtering papers of 
the most varied thickness, the filtering surface of the filter being 
increased by creasing the paper into many folds, or by providing 
the funnel used with projections that prevent close contact of 
the paper with the funnel sides. More rational is the use of per- 
forated funnels provided with folded filter papers, which render 
possible the rapid running off of the filtrate through the perfora- 
tions. Still more rational is the sieve filter, consisting of a cylin- 
drical vessel provided with a conical, internally fixed sieve made 
of a fine-meshed metallic tissue, for which is required some filter- 
ing medium that, according to the size of its particles, suffices to 
fill the pores of the sieve. Using this filter, filtration is greatly 
facilitated. 

Filtering media are particularly desirable to use in cases where 
the turbidity is difficult to remove, as, for instance, the opalescence 
caused by the presence of traces of volatile oils or terpenes, which 
afford a milky liquid. The filtering media, besides stopping the 
pores of the filter, also carry down with them the purities, as, for 



70 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



instance, is the case when using infusorial earth. Even ashes 
has a similar action. For volatile oils, light calcined i 
is a particularly good filtering medium, but it cannot be used 
for acid liquids. Kaolin is also used, but more rarely. In all 
cases, a portion of the liquid to be filtered is first mixed with the 
filtering medium, and the mixture is poured on the filter. The 
filtrate is at first turbid, and must be returned to the filter until, 
after the filtering medium has settled in the pores of the filter, the 







FlQ. 4. Small pressure-sieve filter for alooliolk' liquids. 

liquid runs off perfectly clear, after which the balance of the turbid 
liquid is poured on the filter as required. The rapidity of filtra- 
tion depends upon the viscosity of the liquid to be filtered, and is 
the more difficult the more viscid the liquid. The rapidity is 
increased by pressure, which is most simply applied by using a 
closed filter and raising the liquid to i>c filtered to a higher level. 
On the other hand, direct pressure may also be utilized, as, for 
instance, by increasing the air pressure on (he surface of the liquid 
to be filtered. 



ORATORY PRACTICE 

In general, filtration is the poorest means of clarification, par- 
ticularly for essences and alcoholic liquids, because it always gives 
rise to losses, the loss especially of alcohol from alcoholic liquids 
by volatilization being quite au item. For such liquids there are 
hence used clarifying or fining agents, the purpose of which is, 
when stirred with the liquid, to settle and cany with them me- 
ehanically the particles causing the turbidity. Allowing the 
quid to stand is, of itself, already adapted to facilitate the dep- 
sition of these particles, but the deposition is usually rendered 




Fig. 5. LarRc preHMi re-hie ve filter for fruit juices and wines, with pressure 



difficult when these particles have about the same specific gravity 
s the liquid, or when the latter itself is the heavier. The clari- 
fying agents are usually gelatinous substances, such as gelatin, 
isingiass, albumin and casein. All of these substances have the 
property of separating in flocculent form in alcoholic or acid liq- 
uid-, whereby the floeeuli inclose the particles causing turbidity 
locI carry the latter down with tbem on standing. 
The simplest clarifying agent is skimmed milk. When added, 
s casein immediately separates to form a decided turbidity, but 
1 standing several days, it forms a dense sediment lieneath the 
r liquid, which then only requires to be filtered off. For this 
Kirpose i pint milk suffices for 10 gallons of liquid. 
Albumin is particularly useful for aqueous liquids. The al- 
um of fresh eggs is beaten to a snow, and then stirred with water, 
the whites of five eggs sufficing for 10 gallons of liquid; or, using 
dried albumin, this is dissolved in cold water, 30 drams of the 






72 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

solution then sufficing for 10 gallons of liquid. The solution is 
stirred with the cold liquid to be clarified, and then the liquid is 
heated to the temperature at which the albumin coagulates, which 
is about 158 to 180° F. The albumin as it coagulates incloses the 
particles causing turbidity, and thus effects clarification. 

Gelatin and isinglass are gelatinous substances which are slowly 
precipitated in alcoholic liquids, and which have the property of 
affording insoluble compounds with tannin, which compounds 
also inclose the particles causing turbidity and carry them down. 
It is customary to employ for 10 gallons of liquid a solution of J 
to J oz. of isinglass or £ oz. gelatin; and for liquids which contain 
no tannin naturally, there is first added for a like quantity \ oz. 
tannin, the further procedure being then as already stated. It 
must be remarked that the color of the filtered liquid is always 
darker than before filtration. In all cases clarification by allow- 
ing the liquid to stand, either with or without the use of clarify- 
ing agents, is preferable to filtration. 

9. Use of Wood Charcoal for Removing Taste and 

Dyes 

It may happen that, for some reason or other, liquids may 
become discolored, or may acquire a by-taste, which injures the 
appearance or flavor. To remove these, any porous charcoal 
may serve, but usually wood charcoal is used. Animal charcoal, 
obtained from bones, and freed from minerals, is also used, and 
also more rarely charcoal from meat. The action of the char- 
coals consists in abstracting the coloring or flavoring substances, 
storing these in the pores, and thus removing the objectionable 
constituents from the- liquids. The coloring matters are always re- 
tained by the charcoal, and are removed particularly from liquids 
which are only slightly colored, and which possess a light-yellow 
or brownish tint. The charcoal does not act on concentrated 
pigments of vegetable origin, and hence it is not possible to de- 
colorize extracts. 

Regarding flavoring substances the matter is different. Its 
power to remove flavors is based upon the fact that it removes 
and stores up for some time in its pores substances of higher 
molecular weight than that of the liquid. The power to remove 
flavoring substances is hence spontaneous, but after a while, say 
about two days, the separated flavoring substances again go into 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 73 

solution if the charcoal charged with them is not removed from 
the liquid. 

For the purification of alcohol, charcoal is used in the form of 
small pieces through which the liquid must be made to pass 
slowly. Otherwise, powdered charcoal is mixed with the liquid 
in the proportion of 1 : 100, the mixture often stirred, and filtered 
after several days. 

For refined spirits and liquids having a slightly foul odor, usu- 
ally due to the presence of over-ripe or partially decomposed fruit 
during the fermentation, it is advisable to add to the liquid some 
solution of lead acetate, which precipitates the offending sub- 
stances. As, however, lead acetate is very poisonous, the regen- 
erated liquid must be redistilled. 

B. Analytical Methods 

1. Temperature Conditions 

The temperature at which a change occurs from one state of 
aggregation to another is perfectly definite for each substance. 
It is well known that heat expands all bodies, which, whether 
liquids or solids, are thereby made to undergo a certain oscilla- 
tion, the speed of which increases with the rise of temperature, 
until the cohesion is overcome and can no longer maintain the 
molecular equilibrium. Solids then pass into the liquid form, and 
liquids into the gaseous. The reverse takes place on cooling. To 
overcome the cohesion requires a certain amount of heat, which is 
thereby used up. The temperature then remains constant until 
all the solid is melted; and this is termed the heat of fusion, while 
the temperature is termed the melting-point. On heating liquids 
an increased evaporation takes place, because, after the cohesion 
is overcome, the molecules in the space above the liquid fly off, 
the particles of the substance pass into a gaseous form, and finally 
the oscillation becomes so rapid that the air pressure is overcome 
and the liquid begins to boil. Now the temperature, which is 
termed the boiling-point, remains constant until all the liquid 
has become gaseous. 

Solids which are capable of being liquefied are designated as 
fusible; and such as may be evaporated are termed fluid. The 
melting-point is the temperature at which solids become fluids. 
It coincides with the freezing-pointy or solidification-point f Q r 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

congealing-point; nevertheless, under certain conditions 
substances may be cooled below their solidification-point without 
becoming solid. Through a shock, however, such sub-cooled 
substances suddenly solidify, while at the same time the temper- 
ature rises to the melting-point. 

The temperature at which these changes take place is definil 
for every substance, and hence from its determination conclusions 




can be drawn regarding the nature of the substance under inv« 
gation. The temperature is ascertained by means of a column c 
mercury, which, for scientific purposes, is divided into dej 
according to the scale devised by Celsius. The Reaumur scale i; 
antiquated. Ten degrees of the Celsius scale corresponds to 18* 
of the Fahrenheit or 8° of the Reaumur; in making calculation! 
however, it must be borne in mind that in the Fahrenheit s 
the freezing-point of water lies at 32", while it lies at zero in t 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 



#0 



the Celsius and Reaumur scales. The difference between the 
boiling- and freezing-points is divided, in the Reaumur scale, into 
80°, in the Celsius scale into 100° and in the Fahrenheit scale 
into 180°, so that the boiling-points are 80°, 100° and 212°, 
respectively, for the Reaumur, Celsius and Fahrenheit scales. 
For the sake of uniformity the practical temperatures used in this 
work are those according to the Fahrenheit scale. 

The determination of the melting-point is effected by heating 
the substance in a porcelain dish on a water-bath with sufficient, 
but moderate, heat, and observing the temperature remaining 
constant until just before all the substance has melted. Con- 
versely, in determining the solidifying-point, particularly of cer- 
tain volatile oils, such as anise oil, a sample of the oil is immersed 
in a cold mixture in which a thermometer is also held, and 
the critical point is read off. In doing this the oil is first sub- 
cooled to a point about 5° belpw its solidifying-point. Solidi- 
fication is then initiated by 
stirring, and it occurs with 
the evolution of heat. The 
maximum point at which the 
solidification occurs is called 
the solidification-point. This 
method is practically applied 
to oils of rose and anise. Oil 
of anise solidifies at 70 to 
72° F. It is subcooled to 
about 60° F., and then 
brought to the solidifying-point, whereupon the temperature rises 
to the solidifying-point at which it remains constant, and is then 
read off. 

The boiling-point is determined by aid of a so-called (list illation 
flask, Fig. 7, in which are placed a few fragments of porous clay 
which prevent the bumping that may occur when the pressure on 
the boiling liquid is irregularly overcome, giving rise to explosive 
ebullition. In the neck of the flask is fastened the thermometer, 
which must be fully surrounded by the vapors before they reach 
the condenser. Although every liquid has a certain definite Uiil- 
ing-point, yet this is seldom constant in the case of mixtures, 
because the constituents of these may pass over at different stages. 
It is hence almost impossible to determine the boiling-point of a 




Fig. 7. Flasks for determininR boiling- 
points. 



Steain 
direct ] 
the ape 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

mixture, and the value of a statement as to the boiling-point lies 
only in the fact that the majority of the substances present vola- 
tilize at a definitely constant temperature. Otherwise, a frac- 
tional distillalion is practiced in a small way, because by aid of 
such correct analytical processes the passing from one boiling- 
point to another is easily observed, as it is a physical rule that a 
liquid remains at the same temperature during boiling until all 
has been rendered gaseous at this temperature. The temper- 
ature then jumps to a higher point, at which it remains until 
everything boiling at this temperature has been rendered gaseous. 
The determination of fusel oil is an example in point, of which 
the fractionation in the large way is given in Part II, together 
with the boiling-points and boiling-point limits, etc. In practice 
50 cc. of a liquid to be investigated are heated to boiling, and the 
thermometer is read when the first drop of liquid condenses; a 
soon as the temperature shows any considerable rise, thi3 i 
noted, together with the number of cubic centimeters of condensate 
in the graduated receiver — and this procedure is repeated until 
all the distillate has been received, the residue being calculated as 
the difference between 50 cc. and the volume of distillate obtained. 
The valuation is based upon the percentage of the particular 
constituents obtained within the limits of the boiling-points of 
the substances sought, and which are to serve as the standard. 

Steam, under the usual conditions of pressure, has a temper- 
ature of 212° F. Steam may, however, be subjected to greater 
pressure, and in fact the pressure under which it may l>e held i 
called atmospheric pressure. The temperature of the steam 
under various pressures is as follows: One-fourth atmosphere, 
221° F.; one-half atmosphere, 232° F.; one atmosphere, 250* F.; 
two atmospheres, 267" F.; three atmospheres, 293° F.; four 
atmospheres, 309° F.; and five atmospheres, 320° F., etc. Such 
temperatures are required in cases where constituents lx>il at 
these i>oints, or where heating has to be hastened in order that 
the steam under pressure may afford a greater degree of heat. 
It would be incorrect, however, to assume that, using steam 
under pressure, a higher degree of heat develops within a still 
than corresponds to the boiling-point of the liquid originally. 
Steam under pressure is also used for distilling off substances by 
direct passage through the materials, the pressure then hastening 
the speed and increasing the yield of the higher-boiling constituents. 



■msim 




LABORATORY PRACTICE 

To obtain low tempera. tares, use is made of ice, or, more ration- 
ally, the so-called freezing mixtures, by mixing ice with easily 
soluble salts, particularly sodium chloride, calcium chloride or 
ammonium chloride. For cooling vapors, such as are usual 
during distillation, ordinary water suffices, and only for the low- 
boiliiig esters and ethers is ice necessary. The quantity of cool- 
ing water required depends naturally upon the speed with which 
the vapors pass through the condenser, but for the ordinary 
distillation referred to the normal heat of water, the condenser 
surface should equal the heating surface of the still in extent. 
When operating under reduced pressures (in vacuo), it must be 
at a lower temperature. The boiling-point of a liquid is the lower 
the less the atmospheric pressure on it. For instance, on high 
mountains water boils at 194" F., and in an absolute vacuum 
at 86° F. Ordinarily an air pressure of 0.680 to 0.720 mm. 
mercury is employed, whereby the boiling-point of the liquids is 
lowered approximately 100" F., and this is important in manu- 
facturing high-boiling esters which would not distil at the temper- 
ature of steam under pressure. 

It is a remarkable fact that steam possesses the properties of 
ferrying with it forcibly and without decomposition the volatile 
ooutituedts of other high-boiling substances despite their high 
tailing-points, and upon this depends the distillation and rectifi- 
cation of difficultly boiling liquids with steam with which they 
condense on cooling, and if not soluble in water, separate as a 
distinct layer. 

For scientific determinations a normal temperature has been 
adopted, of 15° C. (= 12° R., or 59° F.). This is used in all cases 
where physical determinations are in question and wherein defi- 
nite data are to be determined which may be characteristic of a 
given substance, for instance, the specific gravity; and this em- 
ployment is based upon the action of heat in expanding all bodies 
and changing their volume. 

2. Solubility 
Solubility is a physical constant for every substance, and de- 
pends upon the solvent or the temperature. The solubility in- 
vestigations are confined to effecting the solution of the solid 
substance in water or other medium so as to obtain a saturated 
solution, and from this, to determine the solubility. Rather 




78 



MANUAL "UK THE KSSKNCK INDUSTRY 



more important is the detemiination of the solubility of liqui< 
in other liquids, as is particularly the ease with volatile oils. The 
determination is practically carried out by mixing 0.5 cc. of an 
oil gradually with an alcohol of definite strength until a perfect 
solution is obtained. The volume of the mixture is then compared 
with the volume of the oil used. If any of the liquids contain 
aqueous constituents, this may be ascertained by shaking with 
ethers, whereby the volatile constituents dissolve in the ethers. 
In this manner the aromatic odorous constituents are identified, 
as, for instance, in essences, fruit juices, etc., by shaking with 
benzene which dissolves out the flavoring constituents, which are 
then left behind and thus isolated when the solvent is evaporated. 
The shaking-out. methods may also be based upon the action of a 
medium upon any aromatic substance whereby the latter is ii 
any way decomposed. Upon this action is based the aldehydi 
determinations, as, for instance, in cassia oil, in which the volatile 
oil is boiled with a solution of sodium bisulphite whereby the 
aldehyde passes over into the aqueous liquid. By this means it 
is shaken out and the non-aldehydic residue determined, the 
aldehyde content being ascertained from the difference. In sim- 
ilar manner the phenol determination is made for clove oil. In 
this the phenol is saponified with alkali and rendered soluble, 
while the insoluble unsaponifiable terpenes form a layer, the vol- 
ume of which may be read off. 

3. Specific Gravity 

By the term specific gravity we understand the weight in grams 
of one cubic centimeter of the substance in question, employing 
as the normal temperature 15° C. = 50° F. The specific gravity 
is based upon that of water for purposes of comparison, namely, 
that 1 ce. of water weighs at 4° C. exactly 1 gm. From the 
specific gravity of a solution we may, for instance, ascertain the 
quantity of substance in solution; moreover the specific gravity 
affords a standard for the purity of substances, as impurities 
present effect variations in specific gravity. 

The specific gravity of solids is determined by first weighing 
them in the air, and then in a liquid the specific gravity of whii 
is known; from the difference in weight the specific gravity 
determined. For this purpose the hydrostatic balance is used, 
Fig. 8. For instance, if a solid weighs in air a grams, and 



: 

i 

B 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 79 

water b grains, its specific gravity is calculated from the formula 

a — b 
The specific gravities of liquids are determined by aid of either 
the chemical balance or areometers. When using the balance 




Fiu. S. Hydrostatic balance. 



it is most advantageous to employ the picnometer (Fig. 9). 
This is a small flask made to hold say 50 cc. exactly of a liquid, 
and it is provided with a thermometer ground or cut to fit accu- 
rately. The Bask is first weighed when empty, and then when 
completely filled with liquid brought to the temperature of 1.5° C; 
from the difference in the net weight and the specific gravity of 
the water, the specific gravity of the liquid is determined. For 
instance, were the net weight of the filled 50-cc. flask 48 gm., 
then the specific gravity of the contents would be 0.48. 

The specific gravity balance, Fig. 10, has a beam, one end of 
which carries a weight which serves at the same time as a ther- 



' 



80 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



mometer, and which is to be immersed in the liquid to be tested; 
the other end of the beam is graduated decimally, so that by the 
use of proper riders the specific gravity may be ascertained to 
the fourth decimal point. 

The simplest method of determining the specific gravity is by 
means of the areometer, Fig. 11. This consists essentially of a 
glass spindle, one end of which is weighed with mercury or shot; 
using mercury, this is made at the same time to serve as a ther- 
mometer, for all determinations are to be made at 15° C. The 




Fig. 9. Picnometer. 



Fig. 10. Specific gravity balance. 



principle upon which the areometer works is that a heavy but 
floating body will sink the deeper in a liquid the lighter and less 
dense the latter is. Thus an areometer will not sink as far in a 
cold liquid as it will in the same liquid warmed. Hence the 
temperature must be accurately observed, and the liquid must 
be brought to a standard temperature, or else use must be made 
of the so-called correction tables. Areometers are used for the 
most varied purposes, and differ from each other by the scale 
division being adapted for the individual purpose. Characteristic 
for each is the fact that it gives the specific gravity directly, 
in that tables of dissolved or soluble substances are constructed 
showing the quantity of dissolved substance present and corre- 
sponding to a definite specific gravity. For technical purposes 
the scales are suitably divided to this end. Thus there are special 



LABORATORY PRACTK 'K 



SI 



areometers for alcohol, acids, lyes, beer, milk, sugar, etc. For 
fruit juices, wines and mashes in particular, the so-called must 
gauge is used, this being divided into Oechsle de- 
grees; these express the three first decimals of the 
specific gravity, leaving off the number 1 and the zero 
following the period: thus the expression 24° Oechsle 
indicates a specific gravity of 1.024 at 15° C. As a 
correction, 0.2° Oechsle is to be added for every 
degree above 15° C, and 0.2° is to be deducted for 
every degree below 15° C. Besides the normal 
scales, there are also those bearing the names of the 
authors by whom they were devised; thus those of 
Beck, Cartier and Baume are still often met with. 

• All these arbitrary scales, however, may be readily 

reduced to read in terms of specific gravity by 
means of comparative tables 

The areopicnomekr, Fig. 12, ii 
variety of areometer in which 
lower end constitutes a bulb which is 
to be filled with the liquid to be 
tested, and the instrument is then to 
be floated in water at 15° C, when 
the specific gravity is read off by 
means of the division on the stem. 
To afford a more correct reading, it is 
advisable not to employ a general 
areometer with a scale adapted for all 
cases, but to employ a special areom- 
eter for each case, because thus the 
range of degrees is materially restricted, 
and the reading is rendered far more 
accurate. 

One of the most important deter- 
minations for the alcohol industry is 

the determination of the alcohol by - ,. , 

, ■ . ■ *»". 12. Areo- 

nu. ii- An. m eans f ajl areometer designated as 

m ' an alcoholometer. In this instrument 

the range between the specific gravity of absolute alcohol, 0.79425, 

and that of water, is divided into degrees. By proper division of 

the scale, the latter can be made to show the percentage strength 




zing 
le to 
find 



82 MANUAL FOR THK ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

by weight and by volume of alcohol in a hydroaleoholic inixtui 
There may also be read the number of grams of alcohol contained 
in 100 cc. of the liquid. Comparative tables regarding alcohol 
values are in the hands of all distillers. By means also of an ale 
holometcr, or even of the specific gravity balance, and utili; 
the tables, recalculations may be made or read off at any time 
ascertain the alcoholic percentage by volume or weight, or to 
the weight of a liter of the alcoholic liquid, or the number of grams 
of alcohol in 100 cc. of liquid. The recalculation of the number 
of grams of alcohol in 100 cc. in percentage by volume is made by 
multiplying the number of grams by 1 .26. The number of grams 
alcohol in 100 cc. is usually used for low- percent age nlcoholic 
liquids, as for instance, wine. Thus, if 8.5 gni. alcohol are present 
in 100 cc. wine, then 8.5 X 1.26 = 10.71, = the percentage by 
volume. Conversely, the percentage by volume is to be divided 
by 1.26 in order to ascertain the number of grams of alcohol in 
100 cc. of liquid. The alcoholometer giving the percentage by 
weight, and the Richter scale, are chiefly used officially, at least 
abroad on the continent, while in practice the volumetric scale 
is usually preferred. As already stated, the percentage by weight 
shows how many parts by weight of absolute alcohol are con- 
tained in 100 parts of the liquid being examined, whereas the per- 
centage by volume gives the same results in volumes instead of 
weights. From the specific gravity the weight of a given nunil 
of liters may l>e calculated. As in all these calculations the 
perature plays quite an important r61c, it is usual to provide 
alcoholometers with a table of corrections, showing how man; 
degrees arc to be added to those found when the temperature is 
above the normal, or how many are to be subtracted when the 
temperature is subnormal. The specific data are given in the well- 
known tables. In English-speaking countries the "proof spirit" 
is taken as the standard, and hence all practical data rej 
alcoholic strengths in this volume are given according to Syl 
alcoholometer. This shows the percentage by volume of alcol 
Contained in a liquid and expressed as "proof spirit," which 
assumed to be 57.27% by volume = 0.0186 specific gravity. Tb 
10° overproof means that the alcohol is of 57.27 4- 10 = 67. 
volume strength, while 15" underproof would show that the liqi 
is of 57.27 - 15 = 42.27% by volume strength. 
The reading of the specific gravity simply shows the S] 






LABORATORY PRACTICE 83 

gravity of the liquid as the latter ia. Thus an alcoholometer will 
not show the alcoholic strength of a liquid which contains extract 
in solution, because the extract present vitiates the reading. The 
determination in such a case is carried out by distilling the liquid 
1 question, and then determining the alcohol in the distillate. 




distillates. 



For this purpose, a definite volume of the liquid being inves- 
tigated is mixed with an equal volume of water, and distilled 
until the volume of distillate is the same as that of the liquid 
originally taken; in this distillate, then, the alcohol content is 
ascertained by means of the alcoholometer. In many cases it 
is desirable to determine the specific gravity of the alcoholic 
liquid itself as also that of its distillate which has been made up 
the original volume, and that of the non-alcoholic distillation 
idue, from which conclusions may be drawn regarding the 
.ract content by means of the so-called extract balance. Thus 







84 



MANUAL FUR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



if we designate the specific gravity of the liquid by a, that of the 
distillate by b, and thut of the nonalcoholic distillation residue 
by c, then, by employing the so-called Tabaries formula, we can 
calculate a third unknown value from two known values, 
1 -+■ a = b + c, or also 

a = b + c — I, 

b - 1 -I- a - c, 

c = 1 + a - b. 

On mixing alcohol and water, a characteristic contraction in 
volume takes place; that is, the volume of the total liquid is not 
equal to the sum of the two volumes mixed. Thus on mixing a 
liter of absolute alcohol with 99,055 liters of water there will 
obtained exactly 100 liters of liquid containing exactly 1% alcohol 
by volume; hence a liter of alcohol has taken up 0.055 liter 
water without any increase in its volume. The degree of contrac- 
tion varies according to the strength of the alcohol, and attains 
its maximum at 3.722% at a strength of 3° underproof, and whereas 
it increases to this maximum from zero alcoholic per cent, it de- 
creases again up to absolute alcohol. In practice, on compound- 
ing alcohols an addition of 2.5% is calculated upon the average, 
and in compounding alcoholic liquids the individual ingredients 
must hence be taken into consideration so that to obtain 10 gallons 
of final products the calculations must be based on 101 galli 

4. Extractive Determination 
The extractives consist, as is well known, of the most varied 
substances which were originally present in solution in the plant 
juice. On drying, the solvent fluids are partially evaporated, but 
not completely, and in this case we speak of the substances as air 
dried. If these substances are subjected for some time to a heat 
of 212° F. until they cease to lose weight, they lose the re- 
mainder of the moisture. On this procedure is ba.sed the moisture 
determination of dry substances. In liquids, the extract can be 
determined by three methods, of which the most accurate is natu- 
rally that by the gravimetric method. In this method the specific 
gravity is first taken, and then 50 cc. of the liquid are evaporated 
on the water-bath until the extract is no longer fluid, whereupon 
it is dried to constant weight in a suitable drying oven, the temper- 
ature of which must not greatly exceed 212° F. The weight of 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 

the dish (previously taken when empty) deducted from the total 
weight gives the net weight of the extract from 50 cc. of the 
liquid, and the proper calculations may then be made for the 
percentage by weight or volume. 

The indirect extract determination is made by calculation from 
the specific gravity, the process being performed by taking 100 cc. 
of the liquid and distilling off any alcohol it may contain, and 
then adding distilled water to the distillation residue to make up 
to the original 100 cc. at the temperature of 15° C. The distillate 
is likewise made to measure 100 cc. by the addition of distilled 
water. If now we designate the original specific gravity of the 
liquid as 0, the specific gravity of the alcoholic distillate as D and 
the specific gravity of the diluted distillation residue as -Y, then 



- 



X= l+O-D; 

d the extract content will be found according to the formula 
E = 2400 +{0-D). 



When the difference between the specific gravity of the liquid 
being investigated and that of the distillate is, for instance, 0.01, 
then the liquid will contain 2.4% by volume extractive. 

The third method of determining the extractive is that beat 
adapted for ordinary practice. It requires no chemical balance, 
and still affords quite exact results. It requires the use of an 
extract balance, a form of areometer. In this case also the alcohol 
of alcoholic liquids must be distilled off and the residue made up 
to its original volume. All the measurements must, of course, bo 
made at the normal temperature of 15° C. Below 15° C, 0.05% 
must be deducted for every degree of difference, and for every 
degree above 15° C. 0.05% must Ix; added. 

In the analysis of wines and of various other beverages, we also 
speak of extractive residues, which arc extracts of which certain 
constituents have !>een analytically determined, as, for instance, 
in speaking of the first extract residue in wine examination when 
the nonvolatile acids have been deducted. We also speak of a 
nonsaccharine or sugar-free extract when the BUgar content has 
been determined by some other method. 

Extractive determinations are also made in the case of drugs 
and other solids, thereby having reference to the solids soluble 






86 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

in a given solvent. Thus the water-soluble extract of drugs L 
that portion that may be isolated by fully exhausting the drugs 
with water. Likewise, the resinous extractive or resin content 
constitute those constituents which are isolaled from the raw 
material with the aid of strong alcohol. The oil content, too, 
ascertained by exhausting the material with liquids in which the 
oils are soluble, as, for instance, petroleum ether. For this pur- 
pose, a portion of the air-dried material is fully extracted 
small Soxhlet apparatus on the water-bath, then the solvent is 
evaporated off on the water-bath, and the extract then dried at 
212° C. and weighed. 

In the case of some volatile oils a dixtillation residue determi- 
nation is made, as, for instance, with the citrus oils, which contain 
wax, or with other oils, which contain resin, or, lastly, to determine 
the presence of nonvolatile substances, such as resin, oil, etc. 
In this case the oil is heated to constant weight. 

Even the ask determination is to a certain extent an extractive 
determination, because it gives the content of mineral substances 
present in any preparation. The ash determination is made 
a platinum dish which is exposed to the great heat afforded by a 
blast lamp, and the incineration is continued until a constant 
weight is obtained. The difference in weight between that of 
the dish alone and that of the dish plus its contents gives the ash 
content of the substance. In the case of liquids, 100 cc. are 
usually evaporated on the water-bath to extract-like consist- 
ency, and when this has been fully dried it is weighed, and then 
incinerated. An additional test is usually made by leaching the 
ash with warm water and then determining the alkalinity by 
titration. By the alkalinity of the ash is understood the number 
of cubic centimeters of normal hydrochloric acid required to 
neutralise the ash from 100 cc. of liquid. The ash determination 
allows conclusions to be made regarding the quantities of the 
raw materials to be employed, for instance in making fruit jui< 
or fruit beverages. In the tables on fruit juices we find the a^ 
age content of mineral substances (ash content) stated, 
notably large deviation from these figures would point to tl 
proper improvement to be made. The value of the n 
constituent depends mostly upon the content of alkali salts, and 
hence the alkalinity determination may also afford comparatively 
important conclusions. 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 87 

5. Acidimetry (Titration Methods) 
(a) Determination of Acids 

Volumetric analysis comprises a number of methods in which 
certain chemicals are made to react, the end of such reaction 
being made evident to the eye by means of the so-called indicators. 
The moat important determination, so far as concerns us, is that 
known as acidimetry, or acid determination. Comparable with 
this is alkalimetry, or alkali determination, which is in fact only 
a reversed acidimetry. The principle upon which both of those 
is based is that on the action of an alkali upon any acid a salt is 
formed, the end of the reaction Ix'ing shown by an indicator. 
For instance, litmus, the most commonly used indicator, is red- 
dened by acids, while alkalies change its color to blue. In the 
former case the reaction is said to be acid, in the latter, alkaline. 
By the reaction between an acid and an alkali, a so-called neutral 
salt is formed, which is made evident by the violet color of the 
litmus. This color is changed to a distinct red by the slightest 
excess of acid, and to blue by the least excess of alkali, and hence 
where an acid and an alkali react in the presence of litmus, the 
latter indicates the end of the reaction by the neutral violet color. 
Litmus paper in strips may be employed in this case. Still more 
distinct is the reaction when phenol phthalein is used. The 
phenol phthalein is dissolved in alcohol, and a few drops are added 
to the liquid being tested. Acids have no action on it, but the 
slightest excess of alkali is indicated by the development of a deep- 
red color; on the other hand, in alkaline liquids which have been 
reddened by phenol phthalein, the color is discharged by the 
slightest excess of acid. 

According to the principles of chemical equations a given quan- 
tity of an acid or alkali always requires a constantly definite 
quantity of ul kali or acid for combination, and when the quantity 
of one is known, the quantity of the other may readily be cal- 
culated. For our purposes, normal potnxsimn hydroxide solution 
is used for determining acids, the alkali solution containing 56 gm. 
potassium hydroxide (KOH) per liter at 15° C. Every cubic 
centimeter of this solution hence contains 0.056 gm. KOH. 
For determining alkalies, normal hydrochloric, acid is employed, 
each liter of which contains 36.5 gm. chemically pure hydrochloric 
acid (HC1) at 15° C. Each cubic centimeter hence contains 






88 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

0.0365 gin. HC1. 1 cc. each of the normal alkali and normal ai 

solutions can combine to form a neutral salt. 

Titration is effected by meant of burettes which are provided 

with cocks easily closed, whereby the instruments may be emptied 

drop by drop. Burettes are usually made to hold 50 cc, and 
r scales divided into tenths of a cubic centimeter. In practice 
it is best to have two such burettes 
mounted on a suitable stand, as here 
shown, one being filled with the normal 
acid, the other with the normal alkali. 
The titration is effected in suitable beakers, 
usually 5 to 10 cc. of the liquid to be 
investigated being taken and suitably 
diluted with water, the more freely if the 
liquid is colored. A few drops of pbenol- 
phthalein solution are then added. If the 
liquid is acid, no color change occurs; if 
alkaline, however, it acquires a red color. 
In determining acids, then, the point at 
which the alkali solution stands in the 
burette is read and noted down, and then 
the alkali solution is allowed to drop into 
the acid, while constantly stirring, until 
the liquid is colored a distinct red, which 
does not disappear even on frequent 
stirring. Another burette reading is now 
taken, and the difference l>etween the 
two readings gives the number of cubic 
centimeters of normal alkali solution 
1 a P" that were required to neutralize the 5 or 
10 cc. of the liquid under investigation. 




Fig. 14. 



paratus. 

The recalculation to acid is usually for the calculation of the so- 
called fruit acids, as tartaric, malic and citric acids; for volatile 
acids, as acetic acid; and for certain fermentation products, like 
beer, as lactic acid. Each cubic centimeter of normal alkali used 
up corresponds to 0.075 gm. tartaric acid, or 0.060 gm. acetic acid, 
or 0.090 gm. lactic acid, or 0.067 gm. malic acid, or 0.064 gm. 
citric acid. 

The number of cubic centimeters of alkali solution used up, as 
above ascertained, is multiplied by the coefficient of the respec- 






LABORATORY PRACTICE 89 

tive acid, and the result gives the quantity of acid in grams con- 
tained in the 5 or 10 cc. of liquid; by then multiplying by 20, or 
by 10, as the case may be, the number of grams acid in 100 cc. 
of liquid are then found. By taking the specific gravity of the 
original liquid also into account in the calculation, the percentage 
content by weight may also be ascertained. It is usual, however, 
in analyses to state only the content in 100 cc, and the figure for 
the acid so obtained comprises the total acid, and not the individ- 
ual figure for a definite acid. In analyses, the total acid is given 
for wines as tartaric acid; for fruits, as malic or citric acids; and 
for alcoholic liquids, as acetic acid. 

A part of the acids occurring in the substance which interest 
us, consist of volatile acids, i.e., such as are distillable, and which 
pass over into the distillate. In this case it is necessary to mix 
100 cc, of the liquid with an equal volume of water, and then to 
distil off exactly 100 cc. In the distillate so obtained the acid 
content is then ascertained in the usual way by titration, and 
in all cases calculated as acetic acid. The quantity of volatile 
acid so found is then to be deducted from the total acid found, and 
the difference gives the fixed or nonvolatile acid; it is customary 
to give both figures in analyses. When liquids containing carbon 
dioxide are to be titrated, the carbon dioxide must first be driven 
off by heating. When very small quantities of acid are to be 
determined, it is customary, for the sake of greater accuracy, to 
dilute the alkali solution to half normal, or even decinorraal, in 
which case the figures for the corresponding acids must be corre- 
spondingly reduced. 

(6) Determination of Esters; Acetylizaiion 
Titration methods are also of great importance in the determina- 
of the ester content of various volatile oils, and particularly for 
ethers. The methods are employed especially for oils of l>er- 
gamot, lavender and peppermint. The value of bergamot and 
lavender oils depends upon the tinaly! acetate content; and in 
peppermint oil, the cstcrified menthol is to be determined. The 
procedure is about as follows: From 1.5 fo 2 gm. of the oil are 
accurately weighed off into a wide-mouthed flask of about 100 cc. 
capacity; the oil is then diluted with alcohol, some phenolphtha- 
lein solution added, and the free acid present then titrated, for 
which purpose halfnormal potassium hydroxide solution is used. 



Hon 



90 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

The result gives the acid number, which expresses the number of 
milligrams of KOH that were required to neutralize the free acid 
present in 1 gm. of the oil. Thereupon 10 to 20 cc. halfnormal 
potassium hydroxide solution are added, and the mixture is heated 
for one hour on the water-bath under a reflux condenser. When 
cool, 50 cc. water are added to the contents of the flask and the 
excess of potassium hydroxide is titrated back with halfnormal 
hydrochloric acid. The difference between the cubic centimeter 
of halfnormal alkali and halfnormal acid solutions gives the total 
alkali required for saponification, and from this we obtain the ester 
number, which expresses the number of milligrams of KOH re- 
quired to saponify the ester present in 1 gm. of the oil. To 
calculate the acid number or ester number use is made of the fol- 
lowing formula: 

28 X cc. ~ alkali used 



No. of gm. of oil 

The sum of the acid number and the ester number is designated as 
the saponification number. The percentage content of ester is 
calculated according to the following formula: 

Molecular Weight of Ester X Ester Number 



560 



= Ester percentage. 



I«W inntaiice, the molecular weight of linalyl acetate is 196, and 
of menthyl acetate (in peppermint oil) 156. The molecular 
weight* of the more usual esters will be found in the table of esters. 
On the other hand, however, the alcohols, which are present in 
\olutlle uiln, may also be calculated, since they may be esterified 
t*\ nieitiiH of iteetie acid. This is termed acetylization. From the 
e-ilei number of the acetylized oil the alcohol content can then be 
\ ttleulnted. The acetylization is effected as follows: 10 to 20 cc. 
w\ the oil are boiled for one hour with an equal volume of glacial 
.u-elio ueld and I to 2 gm. anhydrous sodium acetate under a 
\\[\w\ tviuletmer. The mixture is then allowed to cool, an equal 
volume nl wnter in mided, and the whole heated on the water-bath 
tin 10 minute.-* in ni'tler to decompose the excess of acetic anhydride. 
I hr mivtuio it (lieu allowed to cool again, and is transferred to a 
i p.ii.iioi\ tunnel whereby the oil is separated from the aqueous 
luiutd, iud i* \\u*hed with water until neutral in reaction. The 
ml u ui.\i deh.uhutod by treatment with anhydrous sodium sul- 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 91 

phate, and 1-5 to 2 gm. of the dried ofl are then taken for the 
determination o." the ester number as above, after the free acid 
present has been first carefully titrated. 

If now we designate the number of cubic centimeters of half- 
normal potassium hydroxide solution used up as a, and the quan- 
tity of the acetyiated ofl taken for saponification as $. then the 
quantity of alcohol originally contained in the ofl is ascertained 
by the equations which follow, and which are given for the oils 
most used. The quotient for menthol is 7.S: for geraniol (in 
rose oil) 7.7; for anethol (in anise ofl and star anise oil) 8.8; and 
for santal oil (in sandal wood) 11. The equation is: 

Percentage Alcohol = « X (quotient as above) % 

6. Shaking-out Methods 

(a) Determining Higher Alcohols (Fusel Oil) in Liquor 

The liquor to be tested must first be freed from coloring and 
extractive matters, hence a distillate is used. The alcoholic 
content of the liquor must also be determined in advance. In 
order to free the liquor from coloring, extractives and esters, 
100 cc. are mixed with 10 cc. of normal potassium hydroxide solu- 
tion, and sufficient distilled off to measure exactly 100 cc. at 15° C. 
The distillate is now carefully reduced to a 30% by volume 
strength. Should it contain less alcohol than 30% by volume, it 
must be brought to this strength by the addition of pure absolute 
alcohol. In this case the strength is once more controlled with 
the greatest care by means of the alcoholometer so as to bo fully 
up to the mark. For carrying out the test a shaking-out appa- 
ratus is employed, Fig. 15, the lower portion of which has a capac- 
ity of 20 to 25 cc, and bears a scale divided in tenths of a cubic 
centimeter. Pure chloroform is first introduced up to the 20 cc. 
mark, and then 100 cc. of the diluted alcohol are introduced, 
followed by 1 cc. of pure sulphuric acid (sp. gr. 1.2857 = about 
37.4%); the liquids are then mixed for about 15 minutes by re- 
peated inversion of the apparatus so that the liquids may coin- 
mingle and pass each other without, however, forming a difficultly 
separable emulsion. The apparatus is then allowed to stand in 
order to permit the liquids to separate, and after the Lcmpeniturn 
of the-liquids has been brought to 15° C, the chloroform volume 



92 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 




is read off, as the chloroform will have taken up all the higher 

alcohols present. 
The same procedure is gone through once more, but this time 

using absolute alcohol which has been brought to a 30% by 

volume strength by the addition of water. The content of higher 

alcohols may then be calculated. The chloro- 
form reading of the liquid investigated may be 
designated as a, and that using diluted alcohol, 
made from absolute alcohol as a control, may 
be designated as b; the equations will then be 
as follows: 

1. Calculated for 30% by volume alcohol, 

6.631 X (a - 6) = volume per 1000. . 

2. Calculated for 100% alcohol, 
22.103 X (a - b) = volume per 1000. 

(6) Determination of Aldehydes in Volatile Oils 

For this there is usually used the so-called 
cassia flask, so named because it is generally 
employed for cassia oil. The flask has a 
capacity of about 100 cc. The long neck is 
about 8 mm. in diameter internally, and holds 
over 6 cc, while it bears a scale divided in 
Fig. 15. Apparatus tenths of a cubic centimeter. The zero point 
for shaking-out in j s a little above the part where the flask proper 

merges into the neck. 10 cc. of the oil to be 
tested, together with 10 cc. of a 30% solu- 
tion of sodium bisulphite, are heated on the water-bath with 
frequent shaking until the coagulum first formed has liquefied. 
More bisulphite solution is then added gradually, with continued 
heating and frequent shaking, until all solid particles have dis- 
appeared and the supernatant oil is absolutely clear. After the 
mixture has been allowed to cool, more bisulphite solution is 
added so as to bring the oil into the neck of the flask, and then the 
volume of the oil is carefully read. The number of cubic centi- 
meters of non-aldehydic constituents (i.e., the separated oil) is 
now deducted from 10, and the difference gives the aldehyde con- 
tent; by multiplying this difference by 10, the percentage content 
is obtained. 




fusel-oil determina- 
tion. 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 93 

(c) Phenol Determination 

This is also carried out in a cassia flask. 10 cc. of the oil, e.g., 
clove oil, are shaken for several minutes with a 5% solution 
sodium hydroxide whereby the phenol present in the oil is con- 
verted into a soluble phenol salt, whereas the nonphenols remain 
undissolved, and on standing collect on the surface of the liquid. 
By now filling the flask and bringing the nonphenols into the 
graduated neck, the quantity of the latter present is read off. 
From the difference the phenol content is ascertained directly. 

7. Sugar Determination 

The sugar content of aqueous liquids consisting exclusively of 
sugar and water is ascertained by the specific gravity. Most 
saccharin liquids, such as wine, liqueurs and nonalcoholic 
beverages, contain partly cane sugar, partly invert sugar. Fer- 
mented liquids, such as wine, generally contain invert sugar. In 
order to determine both sugars, two tests must be made. The 
invert sugar is directly determined, whereas any cane sugar 
present is first converted into invert sugar and then determined as 
such. 100 parts by weight of cane sugar on taking up water 
yield 105 parts by weight of invert sugar. The determination is 
made as follows: 

(a) Determining Invert Sugar 

A 50-cc. burette graduated in tenths of a cubic centimeter is 
filled with the liquid to be examined. A solution of Rochelle 
salt is now made by dissolving 173 gm. pure Rochelle salt in 400 cc. 
distilled water, adding 100 gm. of a sodium hydroxide solution 
(containing 516 gm. NaOH per 1000 cc), and then adding water 
to make the whole measure 500 cc. Next a solution is made by 
dissolving 34.639 gm. crystallized cupric sulphate in distilled water 
to make 500 cc. Now 5 cc. of each of the Rochelle salt and 
copper sulphate solutions are placed in a porcelain dish, a little 
water is added, and the mixture is heated to boiling, whereupon 
the liquid in the burette is allowed to run in while stirring con- 
stantly with a glass rod, the liquid being kept briskly boiling. 
The Fehling's solution — by which name the Rochelle salt-cupric 
sulphate mixture is known — originally has a fine blue color, and 
this color persists if the liquid being examined contains no invert* 



94 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

sugar. If, despite the boiling, and the frequent addition of the 
liquid being examined, no change of color takes place, the invert 
sugar content may be placed at zero, but if the latter is present, 
the initial addition will develop a change in color, the blue passing 
gradually into green and finally into a reddish The liquid is al- 
lowed to run in a little at a time, while maintaining the boiling 
and stirring, and the test is considered to be at an end when the 
blue color has fully disappeared. This moment is rather difficult 
to determine, hence chemical means are resorted to for ascertain- 
ing it. A piece of white filtering paper is folded several times, and 
when the test is considered to l>e at an end, a drop of the liquid 
from the dish is placed on the paper. The drop filters through 
and shows a colorless, moist spot on the reverse side of the paper. 
This spot is then touched with a drop of acetic acid followed by 
a drop of potassium ferrocyanide solution; if a red color develops, 
the determination is still incomplete, and it must be continued 
until no red color reaction is obtained. If now the figure 5 be 
divided by the Dumber of cubic centimeters of the liquid being 
investigated, the quantity of invert sugar in grams present in 
100 cc. is obtained. Thus were 32.6 cc. of the examined liquid 
required, 100 cc. of it would contain 5 : 32.6, = 0.153 gm. invert 
sugar. 

The method is applicable only when the content of invert sugar 
is very small, in fact not greater than 0.5 gm. per 100 cc. Where 
a greater quantity is present, the liquid must be diluted, some- 
times even 50 or 100 times, in fact, and then of course making 
the proper correction for the dilution. 

(6) Determining Cane Sugar 

50 cc. of the liquid to be examined are heated with 5 cc. of a 
1% hydrochloric acid for half an hour on the water-bath, whereby 
the cane sugar is converted into invert sugar. The hydrochloric 
acid is then neutralized with potassium hydroxide solution, and 
the liquid is then made up to 100 cc. by adding distilled water. 
The determination of the invert sugar is then made in this solution, 
as alwve, only in this case instead of the figure 5, the figure 10 
must lie taken, because of the dilution to double the volume. 
In this case, too, where the sugar content is high, the proper dilu- 
tion must l>e made, as before. 

The calculation is now made as follows: The invert sugar is 






LABORATORY PRACTICE 95 

first determined in a sugar solution, and then in another portion 
the total sugar, i.e., not only the invert sugar, hut also the cane 
sugar which has been converted into invert sugar. The differ- 
ence between the two determinations gives the cane-sugar content. 



8. Investigating: Potable Waters 



Water is an important constituent in the manufacture of 
mineral waters and lemonades, and hence special care must be 
taken regarding its purity. First of all, it must be clear, color- 
less and odorless. Any residue left on evaporation must lie 
colorless. When kept in closed vessels which however admit air, 
no turbidity should occur, nor should there be any precipitation 
of greenish or brownish organic matter. Water must not contain 
any decomposition organisms. Of organic matter it must not 
contain more per liter than will be oxidized by 10 cc. of perman- 
ganate solution, the determination being carried out as follows: 
100 ec, of the water are mixed with "> cc. diluted sulphuric acid and 
10 ee. of potassium permanganate solution (0.32 grn. per liter), 
and the mixture is boiled. The excess of permanganate is then 
titrated with oxalic acid solution (0.63 gm. per liter). Each gram 
of potassium permanganate used up is considered to be equivalent 
to 5 gm. of organic matter. 

On Iioiling water with an ammoniacal silver nitrate solution no 
turbidity must develop. A liter of water must not contain more 
than 0.0001 gm. ammonia. The detection of the latter is effected 
by means of Nessler's reagent (a mercury and potassium iodide 
solution containing caustic alkali). To 200 cc. of the water there 
are added a few drops of sodium hydroxide solution and 2 cc. 
sodium carbonate solution, which effect the precipitation of cal- 
cium and magnesium carbonates. After decanting from the 
deposit, 100 cc. of the liquid are mixed with 1 cc. of the Nessler's 
solution. If the water contains ammonia, a yellow color develops, 
and if much is present a yellow to reddish precipitate forms. 

A liter of water should not contain more than 0.01 gm. nitric 
acid, or 0.02 gm. chlorine. The nitric acid is detected by means 
of a solution of a few crystals of diphenylaim'ne in 3 cc. concentrated 
sulphuric acid; on adding 1 cc. of the water to this solution, the 
mixture acquires a blue color if nitric acid is present. The chlo- 
rine is determined as follows: Add 3 drops of neutral potassium 
ehromate solution to 50 cc. water, and titrate with deci"" 1 



96 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

silver nitrate solution to permanent redness. By multiplying 
the number of cubic centimeters of silver nitrate solution used up 
by 0.071, the quantity of chlorine per liter expressed in grams is 
obtained. 

Nitrous and phosphoric acids must not be present in potable 
water. Nitrous acid is detected by treating 200 cc. of the water 
with 2 cc. of pure diluted sulphuric acid and a few cubic centi- 
meters of zinc iodide-stanch solution. If any nitrous acid is 
present, a blue color develops, as the acid liberates iodine from the 
zinc iodide, and the iodine then reacts with the starch. The 
phosphoric acid is determined as follows: 2 cc. purest nitric acid 
are added to 100 cc. of the water, and the mixture is then evapo- 
rated to dryness. The residue is dissolved in hot distilled water 
acidulated with nitric acid, the solution filtered, and the filtrate 
while still warm, treated with a warm solution of ammonium 
molybdate in nitric acid. If any phosphoric acid is present, a 
yellow precipitate forms. Tests for sulphuric acid must also be 
made, by acidulating 500 cc. of the water with a few drops hydro- 
chloric acid and adding barium chloride solution, when barium 
sulphate will be precipitated. The mixture is then filtered, and 
the precipitate washed, dried and ignited. The weight of the 
barium sulphate so obtained when multiplied by 0.3433 gives 
the quantity of sulphuric acid present in the 500 cc. water. The 
determination of the hardness of the water gives the quantity of 
the calcium and magnesium salts causing such hardness. We 
speak of a total hardness , i.e., that of the unboiled water, and 
permanent hardness, i.e., that of water boiled for half an hour and 
then made up to the original volume with distilled water. Hard- 
ness is determined by means of a soap solution, which precipi- 
tates the alkaline earths in the form of insoluble fatty compounds. 
The soap solution is standardized against a barium chloride 
solution (0.523 gm. of the crystallized salt per liter). 100 cc. 
of this solution should require for decomposition 45 cc. of the 
soap solution added gradually, and with thorough shaking after 
each addition. While any undecomposed barium chloride is 
present, no foam develops, but the moment free sodium oleate, 
e.g., soap, is present undecomposed, foaming occurs. For satu- 
rating 0.012 gm. of lime, as CaO, 45 cc. of soap solution are re- 
quired, and this corresponds to 12° of hardness. For determining 
the hardness, 25 cc. of the water to be examined are introduced 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 



97 



into a 200-cc. glass cylinder, and then distilled water is added to 
make 100 cc. From a burette soap solution is now allowed to run 
in cautiously, and with frequent vigorous shaking, until a per- 
manent, heavy foam persists. The following table is used for 
determining the hardness, the quantity of soap solution required 
for 100 cc. of the water serving as the basis: 



Soap 


Decree of 


Soap 


Degree of 


solution. 


hard nam 


solution. 


hardness. 


00. 




cc. 




3.4 


0.5 


28.0 


7 


5.4 


1.0 


31.6 


8 


9.4 


2 


35.0 


9 


13 2 


3 


38.4 


10 


17.0 


4 


41.8 


11 


20.8 


5 


45.0 


12 


24.4 


6 











Both the total hardness and the permanent hardness (that remain- 
ing after the water has been boiled) are determined, and the 
difference between the two determinations gives the temporary 
hardness. The total hardness should not exceed 20°. The Ger- 
man degree of hardness is based upon the unit of lime, CaO, or its 
equivalent quantity of magnesia, MgO, present in 100,000 parts 
of water, while the French standard is the unit of calcium carbon- 
ate, CaCOi, present in 100,000 parts of water. Finally, the total 
residue is determined by evaporating a given volume of water to 
dryness; it should not exceed 0.5 gm. per liter. 

9. The Most Important Reactions of Chemicals 

The most important reactions, so far as they concern this work, 
and are of importance to the manufacturer, are here given. In 
the testing of chemicals we have to distinguish between the tests 
for the identity of the substance under investigation and the 
detection of impurities which may militate against the use of the 
chemical. The reactions which permit of the identification con- 
sist in the mutual action upon each other of chemicals, the result 
being usually a white or more or less colored precipitate, or a 
coloration; the precipitates also differ from each other in being 
soluble in other and different chemicals. Frequently they dis- 
solve in an excess of the reagent. Thus the fixed caustic alkalies 
precipitate aluminum hydroxide from aluminum salts, but the 



98 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

precipitate dissolves in an excess of the precipitant. On the other 
hand, ammonia water causes a similar precipitate, but in this 
case the precipitate does not redissolve in an excess of ammonia 
water. Very often the precipitate may be identified by its solu- 
bility or otherwise in various chemicals, and lastly a precipitate 
may form only in the presence of, or its formation may be even 
hindered by, other chemicals. One of the simplest tests is the 
flame test, as different compounds impart characteristic colors to 
a nonluminous flame. 

(a) Alkali Metals 

Potassium: With this platinic chloride gives a yellow crystal- 
line precipitate (difference from sodium). Tartaric acid, in the 
presence of alcohol, gives rise to a crystalline precipitate of potas- 
sium bitartrate. The nonlumindtis flame is colored a bright 
violet. 

Sodium: Dipotassium pyroantimonate develops a white pre- 
cipitate: in not too dilute solutions containing sodium; all other 
sodium compounds are soluble. The flame is colored intense 
yellow. 

Lithium: The flame is colored carmine red. 

Ammonia and Ammonium Salts: A brown color with Nessler's 
reagent. All ammonium salts are volatilized by heat, and from 
them gaseous ammonia is lil>erated by the alkali hydroxides, the 
liberated ammonia being detected by the odor and by its coloring 
turmeric paper brown. 

(b) Earthy Alkalies 

Calcium: Ammonium oxalate develops, even in the most 
dilute solution, a white precipitate insoluble in acetic or oxalic 
acid (with barium and strontium a similar precipitate, but only 
in concentrated solutions). The flame is colored yellowish-red. 

Barium: With sulphuric acid a white, and with potassium di- 
chromate a yellow, precipitate (strontium and calcium afford no 
precipitate with chromates). The flame is colored green. 

Strontium: Affords a white precipitate with sulphuric acid. 
The flame color is red. 

Magnesium: In the presence of sufficient ammonium salts, 
magnesium salts arc precipitated by the alkali carbonates or hy- 
droxides, or by ammonia. A mixture of sodium phosphate solu- 
tion and ammonia water precipitates magnesium salts, even in 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 99 

the presence of ammonium salts, as white crystalline ammonium 
magnesium phosphate. 

Aluminum: Ammonia water and ammonium sulphide precipi- 
tate aluminum hydroxide insoluble in an excess of the precipitant. 
Caustic alkalies precipitate gelatinous hydroxide, easily soluble 
in an excess of the precipitant. 

(c) Heavy Metals 

Capper: Ammonia gives a greenish-blue precipitate soluble in 
excess of ammonia water. Iron and zinc precipitate the metal on 
their surface. 

Iron: Ammonium sulphide develops a black precipitate easily 
soluble in acids. Potassium ferrocyanide gives with ferrous salts 
a white precipitate rapidly becoming blue; with ferric salts it 
gives a deep blue precipitate. Potassium ferricyanide gives with 
ferrous salts a blue, and with ferric salts a reddish-brown, precipi- 
tate. Tannin gives with ferrous salts no coloration, but with 
ferric salts a black, inky precipitate. 

Lead: Gives with hydrogen sulphide a black precipitate insolu- 
ble in alkalies; with caustic alkalies a white precipitate soluble 
in excess of precipitant; and with sulphuric acid a white precipi- 
tate soluble in caustic alkali solution. 

Tin: With hydrogen sulphide the stannous salts afford a brown, 
and with stannic salts a yellow, precipitate, soluble in ammonium 
sulphide solution, from which solution, however, it is again sepa- 
rated as a yellow precipitate. 

Zinc: Gives with ammonium sulphide a white precipitate in- 
soluble in acetic acid, but soluble in dilute mineral acids; with 
caustic alkalies or ammonia, a white precipitate soluble in excess 
of precipitant. 

Manganese: Gives with ammonium sulphide a flesh-colored pre- 
cipitate. 

Nickel: Gives with ammonium sulphide a black precipitate in- 
soluble in hydrochloric acid; with caustic alkalies a green, and 
with ammonia a greenish, precipitate, soluble in excess of pre- 
cipitant with blue color. 

(d) Reactions of Acids 

Hydrochloric Acid: Gives with silver nitrate a caseous, white 
precipitate soluble in ammonia, but insoluble in nitric acid. 



100 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

Sulphuric Acid: Gives with barium and lead salts a white pre- 
cipitate insoluble in acids. 

Bromine Compounds: With silver nitrate a yellowish-white 
precipitate soluble in ammonia. On shaking with chlorine water, 
bromine is Ulcerated, which colors chloroform brown. 

Iodine Compounds: With silver nitrate a yellow precipitate 
soluble in ammonia. On shaking with chlorine water, iodine is 
liberated, which colors chloroform violet, and starch paste blue. 

Fluorine Compounds: When heated with sulphuric acid the 
vapors evolved etch glass. 

Carbon Dioxide: Becomes evident on adding sulphuric acid 
to a carbonate. On passing the evolved gas into lime-water, the 
latter becomes turbid, due to the precipitation of calcium car- 
bonate. 

Nitric Acid: A colorless solution of diphenylamine in sulphuric 
acid is colored deep blue even by traces of nitric acid; the color- 
ation is also afforded, however, by nitrous acid. On floating a 
solution of ferrous sulphate on a mixture of concentrated sul- 
phuric acid with a nitrate solution, a dark-brown zone forms at 
the junction of the two layers of liquid. 

Arsenic Trioxide: The detection is based upon the conversion 
into arsenic hydride, which, when ignited, deposits metallic 
arsenic in the form of the so-called arsenic mirror. 

Boric Acid: When treated with sulphuric acid affords a green 
flame reaction. The alkaline borates color turmeric paper an 
immediate brown, while acids change the brown color into yellow 
again. 

(e) Organic Acids 

Hydrocyanic Acid: The liquid to be tested is first treated with 
some caustic alkali (KOH) solution, then some ferric and ferrous 
salt is added, the mixture being then heated and acidulated; if 
hydrocyanic acid is present, potassium ferrocyanide forms, which 
gives with the ferric salt a deep blue precipitate, although when 
only a very small quantity is present only a blue coloration de- 
velops at first. 

Fruit Acids: Malic Acid gives with lead salts a white precipitate. 

Tartaric Acid gives with potassium salts in the presence of 
alcohol a crystalline precipitate of potassium bitartrate; if neu- 
tralized with lime-water, the calcium tartrate formed remains 
in solution. On the other hand, lime-water affords with citric 




LABORATORY PRACTICE-. 



acid calcium citrate which is soluble in cold, but insoluble* ilk- 

ing, water, and by this means these two acids can lie separale*tL : .•".-" 

Benzoic Acid and its salts give a reddish-yellow precipitate" ■ 
with ferric chloride. 

Salicylic Acid gives with ferric chloride a violet precipitate. 

Formic Acid is identified by the fact that it has powerful reduc- 
ing properties even in high dilution, the well-known silver mirror 
being thus made evident and utilized for the detection. 

Detection of .Saccharin: Frequently it is suspected that certain 
leverages have t>een sweetened with saccharin, where the use of 
the latter is forbidden. The following method of detection may 
be employed by the layman without undue difficulty: 100 cc. of 
the liquid are evaporated on the water-bath to about 5 cc, where- 
upon some coarse, washed sand is added. The residue is next 
treated with 2 cc. of 30% phosphoric acid solution, and the mix- 
ture then extracted by shaking with 20 cc. of a mixture of equal 
parts of ether and petroleum ether. The saccharin dissolves 
in this ether mixture, and, on evaporating the solvent, the residue 
may be identified as saccharin by its intensely sweet taste. 

>10. CoLORIMETHY 
The detection of tar dyes is frequently necessary in cases where 
products, which naturally have a color, have perhaps been arti- 
ficially colored. In syrups and juices the tar dyes are detected 
by treating 10 cc. of the liquid with 10 drops of ammonia water 
and then shaking with 10 cc. of amyl alcohol. If any tar dyes 
are present, they pass into solution in the amyl alcohol which be- 
comes colored. Tar dyes are usually detected by their st ainin g 
action on woolen threads which have previously been mordanted 
with alum and sodium acetate. For this, 10 cc. of the liquid are 
boiled for ten minutes with 10 cd. of a 10% potassium sulphate 
solution, while the woolen threads are immersed; the threads are 
then removed and washed. The test is particularly used for red 
wines, and even though natural uncolored wines do slightly color 
wool, the coloration is not nearly as strong as that afforded by 
even traces of tar dyes. The wool threads are then washed with 
ammonia water; if any tar dye is present, the wool remains red, 
or it acquires a yellowish color which pusses again into red when 
the ammonia is washed from the thread. Vegetable colors on 
treatment with ammonia pass into a dirty, greenish -white color. 



101 
A6U- 






lauy 
ding 

quid 

reat 
nan, 
,heir 
ides 



/MAMO.-SL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

.. :"Jitje_ ."differentiation of the various plant coloring matters 
"-Exceedingly difficult, and it is only through extensive practice 
"* that the presence of any artificial organic dyes may be detected 
from the colors afforded by lead-acetate precipitates, 

Caramel, or sugar coloring, is detected indirectly, in that the 
liquid to Ik; investigated is first well diluted, then acidulated, and 
treated with solution of albumin, whereby all coloring matters, 
other than caramel, are precipitated; by now comparing the color 
of tiie filtrate, after filtering, with that of the liquid originally 
before precipitation, certain conclusions may be drawn regarding 
the presence of caramel if the liquid 
retains any color. 

The comparison of colors is of 
importance to the practical man, 
particularly with regard to thi 
colorific power and tints or shades 
of coloring. The differences in shade 
can be detected only by the trained 
eye, and the detection is rendered 
sharper by certain acids. All the 
solutions used in the determination, 
and which are prepared by weight and 
diluted volunietrically, are adapted 
for comparative purposes when suf- 
ficiently transparent, and the best 
results are afforded by observations 
made through the layers of liquids. 
"■^Hi i The liquid to Ije tested is filled into 
=" a test-tube which is placed on a lighl 
Fig 18 C lorimeter colored ground, and thcliquidobservcd 

from above downward, the depth 
the layer of liquid being then diminished or increased until the col 
observed agrees with that of the standard alongside. By comp; 
ing the height of the two columns of liquids the concentration 
the sample may lie approximately gauged. Quite accurate 
results may be obtained by means of the colorimeter (Fig. 16). 
This consists of two glass cylinders graduated alike, and both 
of which may lw seen at one time by means of an eyepiece and 
properly adjusted prisms. One cylinder is filled to a certain mark 
with an accurately made normal color solution of known strength, 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 103 

and in the other cylinder is introduced the liquid to be tested. 
This cylinder is fairly filled, and is provided with a small cock 
through which the liquid may escape slowly drop by drop. The 
color of the two columns is observed through the eye-piece, and 
the liquid to be tested is then allowed to escape until the color 
of the two columns of liquid matches. From the height of the 
column of liquid tested its coloring value may then Ije determined 
to a fraction. 

Where it becomes a question of matching color shades, this can 
only be accomplished by empirical methods. The tar dyes here 
in question are all more or less mixed colors, and the dusting of 
some of the substance on a sheet of moist filter paper may afford 
some idea as to the dyes used, because of the varied solubility of 
the different substances. Even on filtering a solution, too, infor- 
mation may be gained, Ijecause of the distinct differences in the 
marginal colors observed, due to differences in diffusion. The 
reproduction of shades of colors otherwise is only possible to 
the experienced eye, whereby not only the colorific power and 
the color tint have to be considered, but also the uniformity of the 
coloring action at various dilutions. It is very often the case 
that two transparent color solutions appear to have identical 
colors, but when largely diluted exhibit unaccountable differences; 
or that two solutions which exhibit like colors when observed by 
transmitted light, across the column, show quite different results 
when observed from above downwards through the column. 

The decolorization of liquids is of frequent occurrence in prac- 
tice. For this purpose it is usual to employ charcoal (wood or 
bone), which has the property of decolorizing colored liquids, the 
coloring matter being retained in its pores. Charcoal has no 
action, however, on the so-called pigments, among which may 
be also classed the brown substances dissolved in the plant juices, 
as, for instance, the brown coloring matters of tinctures and ex- 
tracts. Nor does it take up caramel. Nevertheless care must 
be exercised when using charcoal because it takes up flavoring 
substances to a noticeable extent, and may thereby impair the 
taste of a liquid. Charcoal, moreover, acts quite rapidly, so that 
its action need be allowed to continue but for a short time. 
The quantity of charcoal to be used is usually 0.-J% of the weight 
of the liquid to be decolorized. 

Bleaching by sunlight is also adapted for certain purposes, par- 



104 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

ticularly for volatile oils, as in making anethol and meat 
where it is desired to obtain perfectly white, crystalline 
In the case of colors which are due to the presence of iron, as: 
the discoloration of liquors kept in stock, and the tannin of 
has come into contact with iron, the decolorization may be effc 
by precipitating the coloring matter with milk, the coagulum 

which carries the coloring matter down with it. 

» 

11. Testing bt Sense of Taste, Smell, Etc. 

It is most natural for the practical man to use the senses 
smell and taste in making comparative tests,' but tests of 
kind cannot be as fully convincing as those afforded by practic 
reactions, and sufficient certainty of results can only be obtained] 
by considerable practical experience. In the first place a com-] 
parison with a standard is absolutely necessary, and particular 
consideration must be directed to the fact that the sense may 
become tired or overstrained. Nor are such determinations un- 
influenced by psychic conditions, so that a repetition of the test 
is usually necessary at various intervals of time. 

It is important in carrying out sense tests that these be divided 
into definite possibilities. The odor development is most charac- 
teristic when judged in great dilution. In this, however, the 
odor of the substance, best observed by spontaneous evaporation 
from filter paper, must be noted from time to time, and particu- 
lar attention must be paid to the odor which is last given off. 
The comparison of an odor by dilution with hot water, in order 
to render more evident the sensitive odors, is also advantageous, 
as is, in fact, any dilution. As, however, in compounded prepa- 
rations the characteristic odor is frequently modified by other sub- 
stances present, an attempt may be made to separate these, as, 
for instance, in acidulous liquids by neutralizing the acid. The 
odorous substances are most surely characterized when shaken 
out from liquids by means of, say, petroleum ether, in which 
almost all odorous substances are completely soluble, and from 
which, on evaporation, the odorous substance can best be judged. 

The same is true of the taste. When the flavoring substance 
is present with an odorous substance, and volatilizes with the 
latter, it is equally advisable to shake out with petroleum ether, 
but the concentrate is allowed to evaporate from sugar and the 
flavoring thus isolated on the latter which, under certain circum- 



LABORATORY PRACTICE 105 

.stances in combination with some fruit acid, constitutes an ex- 
cellent means of judging volatile flavors. On the other hand, 
extractives are best tested when they are first freed from volatile 
by-substances, and, so far as liquids are concerned, evaporating 
them to an extract-like consistency, the extract being then dis- 
| solved and the solution tested by tasting. Acids, which impair 
the taste, are to be neutralized with calcium carbonate, and an 
attempt should be made in every way to isolate the flavoring sub- 
stance in order to identify it. In all cases, however, there should 
be no delay in resorting to exact analyses to confirm the findings 
afforded by the senses of smell and taste. 

The imitation of flavoring substances can only in the rarest 
cases be based on a serviceable analysis, but more rather the re- 
sults afforded by the senses of smell and taste come here in ques- 
tion. In order to obtain any degree of certainty, however, it is 
advisable to install an organoleptic collection, consisting of nor- 
mal extracts of the raw materials in question, in the form of tinc- 
tures of known strength, or of solutions of known strength of 
volatile oils or odorous substances. It is then comparatively 
easy to make the preliminary practical tests based on the odor 
and taste of the substance examined as compared with those of 
the standard, of which comparatively small quantities are re- 
quired, and from which the formula for the compound may finally 
be constructed. 



J 



■ 

t 

* 

J 



i 

i 

i 



4 c 



PJURT IT 



» v : - 



L Ti 



The Quality of the 
Carbonic Acid. 
Natural and Arutwai 
Mineral Water Sak? aa£ 
Normal Solutions of 




^ r 



1. Sehers Water. 

2. " - . Dr. S 

3. Soda Water. 

4. Table Water -C 

5. Harzer Sauerbninnen- 

1L T 



1. Aix-la-Chapefie- 

2. Apollinaris. 

3. Baden-Baden. 
1 Bilin, Joeef-Sprinc. 

5. Eger, Franxensbrun 

6. Emser Kraefanchen. 

7. Fachingen. 

8. Franzensbad. 

9. Friedrichshall 

10. Harzer Sauerbnmnen. 

1 1 . Hun yadi-Janos. 

12. Karlsbad, MuefaJbruDnen 

13. Kissingen, RakoczL 

27. 




IT. 
Ml 



jann^iLS^Ttir 



•yruft*. 



2L Vadbr- 



?*ifi&r»ft- 

'jeanife ^ru>. 

iu'^anriiui^n.. 

r — '-— -V>s>yr BruxrwsL 



C. Medicinal Water* 

1. Acid Effervescent Waters, by 

(a) Citric AckL 

(6) Phosphoric Acid. 

(c) Citro-Phoephoric Acid. 

(ef) Hydrochloric Acid. 



107 



2. Effervescent Waters, by Jaworski. 

(a) Alkaline Effervescent Water; simple and strong. 
(6) Effervescent Magnesia Water. 

3. Effervescent Salts 

(a) General Employment. 

(6) Effervescent Bromide Salt. 

(c) " Bromide-Iron Salt. 

(eJ) " Lithium Salt. 

(e) " Magnesium Citrate. 

4. Medicinal Effervescent Waters, by Jaworski. 

5. Various Medicinal Waters. 

(a) Arsenic Water. (e) Lithium Water. 

(6) Bromine Water. (/) Lithium-Soda Water. 

(c) Iron Water. (g) Magnesia Water. 

(d) Iodine Water. (A) Silica-Calcium-Iron Water. 

(t) Urosin-Calcium-Iron Water. 

6. Saccharin Lemonades for Diabetics. 

II. The Fruit-Juice Industry 

Constituents of Fruits and Fruit Juices (with tables). 

(a) Percentage Composition of Fruits. 

(6) Content of Sugar and Acids in Fruit Juices. 

Manufacture of Fruit Juices. 

The Spoiling of Fruit Juices and the Remedies. 

Preservation Methods (Alcohol, Chemicals and Sterilization). 

Natural Fruit Syrups. 

Concentration of Fruit Juices. 

Natural Lemonades and Fresh Fruit Beverages (with tables). 

Citrus Fruit Juices. 

Fruit Wuies (with tables). 

Honey-Fruit Wines. 

Juices from Dried Fruits. 

Jams and Jellies. 

III. Essences for Lemonades and Non-Alcoholic Beverages 

Fruit Flavors: Their Nature and Transfer to Essences. 

Artificial Fruit Flavors, Fortifiers and Fixages. 

Effervescent Lemonades. 

Standard Essences and Extracts for Lemonades and Syrups. 

Turbidity of Effervescent Lemonades. 

Foam Producers. 

General Methods for the Manufacture of Fruit Essences. 

1. Vacuum Distillation. 
Vacuum Apparatus. 
Extraction. 
Distillation. 

108 



Concentration. 
Removing Terpenes. 
Diluting the Essences. 

2. Distillation without a Vacuum. 

3. Working up of Residues. 

4. Methods of Extraction. 

5. Isolating the Fruit Flavors (Aroma Oils). 

Special Methods for Making Fruit Essences. 

A. Berries. 

1. Wild Berries: Bilberry (black and red), Cranberry, Mossberry. 

2. Important Cultivated Berries: Raspberry, Strawberry, Currant, 

Gooseberry, Blackberry. 

3. The More Unusual Berries: Barberry, Elderberry, Juniperberry, 

Mulberry, Sorbberry. 

B. Stone Fruits: Agriot, Cherry, Plum (Mirabelle, Green Gage, Apricot, 

Peach). 

C. Seed Fruits: Apple, Pear and Quince. 

D. Citrus Fruits: Lemon, Lime, Orange, sweet and bitter (including meth- 

ods for essences from volatile oils). 

E. Exotic Fruits: Banana, Pineapple and Pomegranate. 

F. Various Fruits: Melons and Cucumber. 

Essences made from Other Plant Parts. 

A. Celery and Rhubarb. 

B. Hop and Malt. 

C. Ginger and Woodruff. 

D. Essences for Stimulant Beverages. 

(a) "Cocoa" Essence. 
(6) Chocolate Essence. 

(c) Coffee Essence. 

(d) Cola Essence. 

(e) Tea Essence. 

E. Essences from Volatile Oils and Artificial Flavors. 

(a) Bitter Almond Essence. 
(6) Honey Essence. 

(c) Rose Essence. 

(d) Sarsaparilla Essence. 

(e) Vanilla Essence. 
(/) Violet Essence. 

Composition of Lemonade Essences 
(a) Artificial Fruit Flavors. 

1. Grenadine. 4. Messina Fruits. 

2. Currant. 5. Nectarine. 

3. Lime. 6. Tutti-Frutti. 

(6) Artificial Fruit Cup. 

7. Champagne Fruit Cup. 

8. Swedish Fruit Bowl. 

9. Cold Duck. 

109 



(c) Artificial Wine Flavor. 
Basic Essences. 

10. Claret Essence. 

11. White Wine Essence. 

12. Port Wine Essence. 

Artificial Cider Lemonades. 

13. Apple Cider. 

14. Apricot Cider. 

15. Currant Cider. 

16. Peach Cider. 



Wine Lemonades. 

21. Claret Lemonade. 

22. Muscatel Wine Lemonade. 

23. Nectar Lemonade. 

24. White Wine Lemonade. 



Champagne Lemonades. Punch Lemonades. 

17. Champagne Lemonade. 25. Claret Punch Lemonade. 

18. Champagne " Civilsekt." 26. Swedish Punch Lemonade. 

19. Champagne a la Jacqueron. 

20. " Veuve Ciiquot. 



(d) Artificial Beer-Like Beverages. 

27. Gingerbeer Extract. 

28. Malt Lemonade. 

29. Mead Lemonade. 

30. Dark Beer Lemonade (Munich type). 

31. Light " " (Pilsen type). 



(e) Various Fancy Lemonades. 

32. Ambrosia. 

33. Bicyclist Lemonade. 

34. Crystal Spring. 

35. Imperial Lemonade. 

(/) 40. Ferruginous Lemonades. 

(g) 41. Lactic Acid Lemonades. 



36. Marchpane Lemonade. 

37. Maraschino Lemonade. 

38. Oriental Lemonade. 

39. Victoria Lemonade. 



N on- Alcoholic Fruit Flavors 



N on-Alcoholic Punch Essences 

1. Arrac Punch Essence. 

2. Claret Punch Essence. 

3. Coffee Punch Essence. 

4. Cognac Punch Essence. 

5. Fruit Punch Essence. 



6. Mulled Punch Essence. 

7. Imperial Punch Essence. 

8. Rum Punch Essence. 

9. Swedish Punch Essence. 



Non-Alcoholic Beers and Wines. 

Table of Acidity and Colors for Lemonades. 

(a) Fruit Lemonades. 

(6) Lemonades with the Taste of Other Plant Parts. 

(c) Fancy Lemonades. 



110 







NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

The most natural drink for man or animal is pure water, which 
is an indispensable want of nature. It contains various mineral 
substances, so-called nutritive salts, which the organism needs. 
Besides water, fruits in particular are adapted for relieving thirst, 
and the water they contain holds in solution other refreshing 
and nutrient substances as acids, sugar, albumin, etc. Therefore 
fruit juices are often employed for preparing beverages, and, so 
far as their taste is concerned, they are often imitated, as in spar- 
kling lemonades. 

Apart from warm drinks like coffee, tea, cocoa, etc., only the 
natural and artificial mineral waters are really free from alcohol. 
Most other beverages, even though manufactured from fruit 
juices or essences, contain at least traces of alcohol. The lowest 
limit for alcohol in drinks in general is 1%, and for non-alcoholic 
beverages in the commercial sense 0.5% by volume, = 0.42% by 
weight, is taken as lowest limit. 

I. The Minerai^Water Industry 
The Quality of the Water 

Water is the medium for the introduction of mineral substances 
into the organism, and the substances vary according to the origin 
of the water, Only a limited number of inorganic salts are con- 
tained in mineral waters, and they impart to the water a distinct 
taste, because pure distilled water is tasteless. The various in- 
organic salts exercise important functions in life processes, for 
organisms cannot live without such mineral salts. On the other 
hand some of the mineral salts are adapted to serve as medica- 
ments, and therefore various mineral waters are esteemed as 
remedies. 

The quality of the water depends upon the absence of some 
injurious constituents. Thus 100 cc. should not contain more 
than 0.01 tngm. ammonia, 2 mgm. chlorine, or 1 mgm. nitric acid; 




Flo. 17. Fia. 18. 

Mineral-water apparatus with bottling machinery 

nor should it confab phosphoric acid. Besides inorganic salts, 
organic substances and organisms of putrefaction are also often 
to be found. To oxidize the organic substances present not more 
than 0.08 to 0.10% of potassium permanganate should be re- 
quired. The organic substances serve as a good nutrient medium 
for micro-organisms, particularly those causing putrefaction, and 
therefore a bacteriological examination of water is i 



xaniination of wat< 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 113 




FlO. 19. Column water distilling apparatus. For better utilization of the heat 
several vessels arc sujHTimpijsa], anil the vj]M>rsol'one vessel heat the one just 
above it. The Bondenaed water delivered by the worm constitutes the ilis- 

f water. The last vessel is connected with the condenser, Daily yield 
100X) gallons. Every 120 gallons require only about 1} quarters coal. 
V 



114 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

However, every water should be filtered before using it for any 
mineral or table water, and in cases where, for any reason it is not 
suitable, it should be distilled. The artificial mineral waters in 
particular should be manufactured only from distilled water. By 
distilling, the mineral and also the objectionable organic substances 
are retained in the still, and the distilled water is then tasteless. 

Carbonic Acid 

This is the most important constituent of non-alcoholic bever- 
ages, which are impregnated with carbonic acid in various well- 
known ways. Carbonic acid is most soluble in cold water, the 
solubility being increased by increase of atmospheric pressure 
with decrease in temperature. Table waters are saturated usually 
at 3 to 4 atmospheres, and artificial mineral waters at 1 to 2 at- 
mospheres only. 

Natural and Artificial Mineral Waters 

The essence industry is interested in mineral waters only in so 
far as it deals with saline mixtures or with salts only. The addi- 
tion of a flavor is not desired, and the use of fruit syrups or other 
flavoring with a mineral water is a matter of individual taste. 
Natural mineral waters arc those which contain all the constitu- 
ents originally present in the natural spring, and in unchanged 
form, and to which no other addition is made. However it is 
often necessary to improve the quality of natural waters by mak- 
ing some changes, such as to remove an excess of iron, or to add 
some sodium chloride, or to impregnate it with carbonic acid, but 
such manipulations must be declared, as also when a natural car- 
bonated mineral water is further saturated with carbonic acid. 

Artificial mineral waters are manufactured from distilled or 
other suitable natural sweet water, and they are nearly always 
saturated with carbonic acid after the addition of more or less 
inorganic salts. Such waters which are made in imitation of 
the natural springs must be declared as artificial, and those with- 
out any medicinal character are to be labeled as being table water. 

In the following formulas the artificial mineral waters only will 
be considered cither in the form of salt mixtures, which may be 
designated as "artificial mineral water salts," or in the form of 
solutions of definite saline contents. 



reqi 
1 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 115 

Mineral Water Sails and Their Preparations 

The mineral content of water is usually due to inorganic salts, 
and more rarely free inorganic acids are employed. Such are 
sulphuric, phosphoric and arsenous acids. For medicinal waters 
citric and tartaric acids are also required. Organic salts are very 
seldom employed in medicinal waters. Every chemical used must 
be chemically pure, or at least of the purity demanded by the 
Pharmacopoeia. A large number of salts contain water of crystal- 
lization, which may be removed by drying. For salt mixtures 
the anhydrous form only is to be used except when the formula 
particularly calls for the crystallized salts. The salts are to be 
exsiccated in the manner directed by the Pharmacopoeia, where 
this is given. The mineral water salts are marketed in powder 
form, but as they are very often hygroscopic, they must be kept 
in a dry place. 

Regarding the order in which the salts must be dissolved, or 
solutions mixed, to avoid precipitates or other reactions, the 
following must be observed: First come the haloid salts as bro- 
mides, chlorides and iodides; then the sulphates, carbonates, 
nitrates, phosphates, silicates and free acids; and lastly the other 
constituents. With the exception of magnesium and calcium 
carbonates, all the salts are quite easily soluble. The magne- 
sium and calcium carbonates are added last, and on impregnating 
the water with carbonic acid, they are converted into bicarbonates 
which are soluble. Any sodium sulphide is to be added last. 

For salt mixtures the weight required to make 10 gallons of 
mineral water is given in every case. The salt is first dissolved 
in some water, then made up to 10 gallons, and then saturated 
with carbonic acid in the usual manner. In some cases, where 
the mixture is not suitable, the quantities of the individual salts 

luired for 10 gallons are stated. 

Normal Solutions of Mineral Water Salts 
This method is the most suited for rapid manufacture, and for 
making small quantities of water. The salts are simply dissolved 
in the required quantity of water, and the solutions stored. The 
concentration of the solutions varies according to the solubility 
of the salts, hence with such salts aa are used in but small quan- 
tities it is safer, to insure accuracy in measuring, to make use of 
diluted solutions. 









116 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



The most necessary salts, as sodium chloride, sodium carbonate, 
sodium sulphate and chlorides of calcium and magnesium, are 
used in most concentrated solution. The "liter," = 1000 cc, 
serves as the normal measure. The preparation of these normal 
solutions is always the same. The specified quantity of ingre- 
dients is dissolved in sufficient distilled water to make 1 liter of 
solution at the normal temperature of 15" C. = 65° F. 

The content of crystallization water is considered only in cases 
of the highest concentrations of douulenormal solutions. It is 
far more convenient to dissolve crystallized salts, and therefore 
the quantities prescribed arc equivalent to those of exsiccated 
salts. 

Doublenormal Salt Solution* 

Each liter contains 7 oz. 13 dr. exsiccated salt (22.14%). 
■e equal to I dram l„„„ ; „„,,^ __i. 



128 " 



la 



Each liter contains tin* following n 

Calcium Chloride 

Magnesium Chloride 

Sodium Chloride 

Magnesium Sulphate 

Sodium Sulphate 

Sodium Carbonate 



cnjxtulti:i il .tultx dissolved to make 1 liter: 

. 1 lb. - o*. 4 dr. CaCl, + 6 H.O 

. - " 14 " 5 •' MgCl, + 6H.0 

. - •' 7 " 13 ■' NaCl 

. - " 12 " 5 " MgSO. + 7 H/> 

, - " 15 " - " NfcSO, + 7H.0 

. 1 " 5 " - " NajCO, -MOHjO 



Normal Salt Solutions 

Each liter contains 3 o*. 14) dr. crystallized salt = 62j dr. (11%). 
„.. „' „ ,, ,, 1 ! crystallized salts. 

In every case 3 oz. 14) dr. are dissolved to make 1 liter. 

This concentration is employed for the following salts. 

Sodium Bromide NaBr Manganese Sulphate MnSO. 

Aluminum Chloride AlC'lj Potassium Carbonate. .... KjCOi 

Ammonium Chloride NH,CI Sodium Bibonte (Borax). . Na.B(Or 

Potassium Chloride KCI Sodium Nitrate NaNO, 

Sodium Iodide Nal Sodium Phosphate Ni 

IronSuIphate FeSO. Sodium Silicate Na,SiO 

Potassium Sulphate KjSO. 

Tenthntirmul Salt Solutions far Mineral Waters 
Each titer contains 0J dr. (1.1%) crystallized salts. 10 cc. are equal to ^g dr 
Suited for following salts: 

Barium Chloride BaCI, Sodium Sulphi.le Na»S 

Lithium Cltloride LiCl Lithium Carbonate Li,CO, 

Strontium Chloride. SrCI, Sodium Areeuate NaAaO, 

Copper Sulphate CuSOi 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 117 

Sulphuric acid (HjSO») is employed as a normal solution, sum! 
arsenic trioxide (arsenous acid, AsaOj) in tenthnormal solution. 

The employment of these solutions is very simple. The re- 
quired amount is expressed in cubic centimeters which are meas- 
ured by a suitable pipette, or better, a burette. Here, too, the 
order of mixing is as before. The haloid salts, as bromides, 
chlorides and iodides, may be mixed together, also the sulphates, 
and lastly the other solutions. For each group a separate vessel 
is to be used in order to avoid precipitates due to a chemical 
reaction. 

A. Table Waters 

Most carbonated table waters, like sellers or soda water, con- 
tain chiefly sodium chloride and carbonate. When distilled water 
or a soft water is used the addition of calcium and magnesium 
chlorides is usual. The usual table waters are reproductions of 
the springs of Niedcrsclters (Germany), such mountain springs 
as Hartzer, Sauerbrunncn, or Rhineland Springs (AppoQinaris), 
or of Vichy. When the table water is named after a certain spring, 
its artificial character must be declared. 

1. Selters Water, Common Type 
For 10 gallons. 
Sodium Carbonate 11-21 oz. = 96-114 cc. doublenormal Na,COi 
.Sodium Chloride 2J-3 " =144-192 " " NaCl 

For soft or distilled water add 
Calcium Chloride 1 oz. 3 dr. = 13l> cc doubleuorrn.il CaCl, and 
Magnesium Chloride 12J dr. - 102 cc. " MgCI,. 

2. Selters Water, Dr. Struve 
First Solution: Second Solution: 

Sodium Carbonate.. 2 oz. G dr. Magnesium Chloride 4} dr. 

Distilled Water to make 1 gallon. Calcium Chloride 6 " 

Potassium Chloride i oz. 

Sodium Chloride. . 4 " 

Distilled water in mukc 1 gallon. 

Take 1 gallon each to make 100 gallons Selters water. 
For 10 gallons, using Normal Solutions: 

Calcium Chloride, doublenormal 4.8 cc. 

Magnesium Chloride, " '.. 3.8" 

Potassium Chloride, tenthnormal 0.4 " 

Sodium Chloride, doublenormal 51.2 " 

Sodium Carbonate, " 12.8 " 






118 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

3. Soda Water 

For 10 gallons. 

(a) For distilled or soft water. (b) For hard water only. 

Sodium Carbonate 1 oz. 7 dr. Sodium Chloride 7} dr. 

Calcium Chloride 6J di. Sodium Carbonate 2Joi. 

Magnesium Chloride. . 7 J dr. 

With Normal Solutions: 

(c) For soft or distilled water. (d) For hard water only. 

Calcium Chloride 50 cc. Sodium Chloride 60 cc 

Magnesium Chloride. . 60 " Sodium Carbonate 160 " 

Sodium Carbonate 90 " 

4. Table Water "Cosmos" (Standard of German Mineral 

Water Manufacturers' Union) 

First Solution: Second Solution: 

Sodium Chloride 1 lb. Calcium Chloride 8 os. 

Sodium Sulphate, crystallized J oz. Magnesium Chloride ... 13 " 

Sodium Carbonate, crystallized 2 lb. Distilled water to make 1 gallon. 
Distilled water to make 1 gallon. 

To make 10 gallons mix 1 pint of first solution with 2 pints of 
the second solution. 

Same content but simplified: 

Salt Mixture: = Normal Solutions: 

For 10 gallons. 

Calcium Chloride 12} dr. 134 cc. doublenormal 

Magnesium Chloride. . . 1 oz. 4} " 166 " " 

Sodium Chloride 1 " 8 " 192 " " 

Sodium Sulphate - " 2§ " 10 " " 

Sodium Carbonate 3 " 3 " 203 " " 

Various Salt Mixtures for Table Waters 

Made with hard water, and especially suited for compressed salt 
mixtures. 

Sodium bicarbonate often is used in salt mixtures, and where 
it is desirable to employ normal solutions it is calculated as car- 
bonate. 

5. Harzer Sauerbrunnen 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(6 oz. for 10 gallons.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Sodium Chloride 6J oz. NaCl 782 cc. doublenormal 

Sodium Bicarbonate ... 9 " Na,C0 8 . . . 682 " " 

Sodium Sulphate j " Na£0 4 . • . 16 " « 

1 lb. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



119 



6. Seltebs Salt 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solution*: 

(| os. for 10 gallons.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Sodium Chloride. 6J os. Nad 832 cc. doublenormal 

Sodium Bicarbonate.... 9 " Na*CO, . . 772 " 

Sodium Sulphate j " Na£0 4 ...64" 

1 lb. 

« 

" 7. Table Water 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(3J os. for 10 gallons.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Sodium Chloride 6 os. NaCl 768 cc. doublenormal 

Sodium Bicarbonate... 7" Na*CO, . . 565 " 

Sodium Sulphate 3 " Na^O* . 384 " 

lib. 

Salt Mixtures for Soft or Distilled Water 
8. Apolunabis (Rhineland table water) 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(5 os. for 10 gallons.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Calcium Chloride 2 os. 2 dr. CaClj 272 cc. doublenormal 

Magnesium Chloride. . . 3" 7" MgCl,. . . . 440 " 

Sodium Chloride 4 " - " NaCl .... 512 " 

Sodium Carbonate 6" -" Na,CO, . . 768 " 

Sodium Sulphate ~ " 7 " NajS0 4 .. . 56 " " 

lib. 

9. Harzeb Sazerbrunnen 

Sail Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(5 os. for 10 gallons.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Calcium Chloride. 2f os. CaClj. . . . 312 cc. doublenormal 

Magnesium Chloride... 4 " MgCl,.. .. 512 " 

Sodium Chloride 5 " NaCl . ... 640 " 

Sodium Sulphate i " Na£0 4 .. . 32 " 

Sodium Carbonate. ... . 4 " Na,CO,... 512" 

1 lb. 

10. National Spring (Table Water) 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(6 os. for 10 gallons.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Sodium Chloride 8 os. 10 dr. NaCl — 1104 cc. doublenormal 

Sodium Carbonate 5 " 8 " Na,CO, . . 192 " 

Sodium Sulphate 1 " 8 " Na£0 4 . . . 704 " 

Sodium. Phosphate .... - " 6 " Na,HP0 4 . 96 " normal 

lib. 



120 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



11. Temperance Table Water 



Salt Mixture: 

(5 oz. for 10 gallons.) 

Sodium Chloride 4 os. 

Sodium Sulphate 1} 

Sodium Carbonate — 8 

Sodium Phosphate . . . 2} 

1 lb. 



tt 



it 



i« 



Normal Solutions: 

(For 10 gallons.) 

NaCl 512 cc. doublenormal 

Na£0 4 . . . 160 " 
Na,CO,.. 1024 " 
Na,HP0 4 . 704 " 



a 



u 



tt 



B. Artificial Mineral Waters 

The formulas are those afforded by the analyses of the springs. 
The waters are usually impregnated with carbonic acid at a pres- 
sure of 1 to 2 atmospheres. The medicinal effect of natural 
mineral waters depends not alone upon the salts and their influ- 
ence on the organism, but also upon the temperature at which 
the water is drunk, the surroundings, the change of air, and other 
circumstances which exert a physiological influence upon the 
Ixxly. Some even assert that the radium content contributes 
to the important effect of natural waters. Artificial waters of 
course cannot exert such an action. 

The formulas are calculated for 10 lb. of salt mixture, which may 
Ik* sold as such as a medicament, or compressed in tablets with 
« IjUk 1 ! of directions for use. On the other hand, the employment 
of normal solutions is described for the rapid manufacture of such 
wator*. As far as effervescent salts are concerned, the same com- 
position is used, but with the addition of tartaric acid and sodium 
hic&rhonatc as described under effervescent salts. 

1. Aix-la-Chapelle, Imperial Spring 

Normal Solutions: 

(For 10 gallons.) 

15 cc. tenthnormal 
CaCl* 3.7 " doublenormal 

KC1 55 " normal 

LiCl 
NaCl 
SrCl, 
Nal 
FeS0 4 
MgS0 4 



-lb. 



N,i// Mixture: 
N" Jr. **r fcMm - ft dr. per glass.) 



«i 



if 



ti 



*" 




^ — m 



2 oz. 2J dr. NaBr 
111 v 
6 " 
2J " 

5 " 

1 " 

I" 

8J " 



5 " 

<— << 

5 " 



55 

14.4 " tenthnormal 
513 



CI 

it 



* " - 



.». 



^ « 12 " NajSOi 



" doublenormal 

1.6 " tenthnormal 
1.2 " " 

5.6 " normal 

15.4 " doublenormal 

65.3 



it 



tt 



-PV ■ 


■ 


■^^^^^h^^" 


NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 121 


Sodium Carbonate lib. Ho*. 8 dr. Yi,<'n It', cc. doublenormal 


S.liimi Silicate - " 5 " "1 " Na,SiO, 50 " normal 


Sodium Sulphide* -" -*" - " Na^ 0,5"' 


10 1b. 


* Sodium Sulphide: Add to each 10 gallons 0.5 ce. normal solution. 


2. Apollinaris (Rhineland Sprino) 


Sail Mixture: Normal Solutions: 


(9J dr. per gallon = J dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 


Calcium Chloride. 1 lb. 8 or.. 5 dr. CaClj 105 cc. doublenorraal 


Magnesium Chloride 1 " 10 " 7 " MgC'l, 130 " 


Sodium Chloride - " 7 " 12 " NaCI 30.5 " " 


Sodium Sulphate - " 8 " - " Na^SO, 38 " " 


Sodium Carbonate 5 " 13 " 8 " Na^O, 450 " " 


10 lb. 


3. Baden-Baden (Head-Stulm) 


Sail Mixtur.-: Normal Solution*: 


(7 dr. per gallon = j dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 


Ammonium Chloride — lh. — oi. 5 dr. NTljCI 2.2 cc. normal 


Caleium Chloride - " 6 " 3 


' CaCli 21.5 " douhlenormal 


Potassium Chloride - " 7 " 8 


' KC1 52.5 " normal 


Sodium Chloride 8 " 3 " 9 


' NaCI 455 " doublenormal 


Potassium Sulphate - " — " 13 


1 K r Sn< 5.0 " normal 


Sodium Phosphate — " — " 5 


' NiiJIPO, 2.2 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Silicate - " 13 " 5 " Na*SiO, 91 " normal 


10 lb. 


4. Bilin (Sour Sprino), Josef-Spring (Bohemia) 


Salt MUlon : Normal Solution*: 


(12 dr. per gallon = H dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 


Aluminum Chloride -lb. -on. (dr. AIC1, 1 ec. tenthnormal 


Calcium Chloride — " 14 " — 


' CaCli 85.3 •' doublenormal 


Lithium Chloride — " — " 6J 


' LiCl 48 " tenthnormal 


Iron Sulphate — " — " 2 


' FeSO, 1.5 ■' normal 


Potassium Sulphate — " 8 " — 


' NmSO, 98 " " 


Manganese Sulphate — " — " | 


' MnSO, 3 " tenthnormal 


Magnesium SulphaU; — " 8 " — 


' MgSOi 49 " doublenormal 


Sodium Sulphate - " 14 " - 


' Na,SO, 85.3 " 


Sodium Carbonate 7 " — *' 7 


1 NajCO, 085 " 


Sodium Phosphate — " — " i 


' No,HPO ( 1 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Silicate - " 3 " - " NaiSiO, 30.5 " normal 


lu lb. 





122 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



5. Eger, Franzensbrunnen (Bohemia) 



Soli Mixture. 


• 




Normal Solutions: 


(15 dr. per gallon = 


} dr. per glass.) 


(For 10 gallons.) 


Aluminum Chloride 


— lb. — OZ. 


I dr. AlCli 8.4 cc. tenthnormal 


Calcium Chloride 


— 


ii 8 a 


_ tt 


CaCb 60 " doublenormal 


Lithium Chloride 


— ' 


u __ a 


2f " 


LiCl 24 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Chloride 


1 


ic n u 


__ a 


NaCl 203 " doublenormal 


Strontium Chloride 


— * 


t ii 


t " 


SrCb 1.2 " tenthnormal 


Iron Sulphate 


— l 


t ! a 


2J " 


FeS0 4 18 " normal 


Manganese Sulphate 


— ' 


u __ u 


3f " 


MnS0 4 3.2 " " 


Magnesium Sulphate 


— 


a 3 « 


12 " 


MgSO« 28 " doublenormal 


Sodium Sulphate 


5 


m g tt 


13 " 


Na,S04 676 " 


Sodium Carbonate 


1 ' 


« 10 " 


_ a 


Na,COj 1% " 


Sodium Phosphate 


— 


It _ tt 


2J " 


NasHPOi 23 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Silicate 


— 


u 3 a 


11 " 


Na^iO, 55.5 " normal 



101b. 



6. Emser Kraehnchen 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(6J dr. per gallon = | dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 



Sodium Bromide 


— 


lb. 


— oz. 


! 


dr. 


NaBr 


3 cc 


.tenthnormal 


Aluminum Chloride 


— 


<< 


_ n 


} 


a 


Aid, 


3 " 


a 


Ammonium Chloride 


— 


tt 


__ a 


21 


tt 


NH4CI 


18 " 


tt 


Barium Chloride 


— 


it 


__ tt 


i 


tt 


Bad, 


1 " 


tt 


Calcium Chloride 


— 


tt 


10 " 


7 


n 


CaCl, 


67 " 


doublenormal 


Potassium Chloride 


— 


n 


2 " 


— 


a 


KC1 


25.6 " 


normal 


Lithium Chloride 


— 


n 


n 


3 


tt 


LiCl 


24 " 


tenthnormal 


Magnesium Chloride 


— 


tt 


9 " 


8| 


tt 


MgCl, 


61 " 


doublenormal 


Sodium Chloride 


2 


tt 


5 " 


6 


tt 


Na,Cl 


239 " 


n 


Strontium Chloride 


— 


a 


n 


2 


a 


SrCl, 


16 " 


tenthnormal 


Sodium Iodide 


— 


tt 


u 


A 


tt 


KI 


0.5 " 


u 


Iron Sulphate 


— 


tt 


__ tt 


2 


tt 


FeS0 4 


1.6 " 


normal 


Manganese Sulphate 


— 


tt 


n 


i 


a 


MnSO« 


1 " 


tenthnormal 


Sodium Sulphate 


— 


tt 


4 " 


— 


n 


NajSO* 


25.6 " 


doublenormal 


Sodium Carbonate 


5 


tt 


9 " 


— 


a 


Na,CO, 


572 " 


(i 


Sodium Phosphate 


— 


tt 


(< 


1ft 


tt 


Na,HPO 


4 12.5 " 


tenthnormal 


Sodium Silicate 


— 


tt 


6 '* 


6 


n 


Na,SiO, 


815 « 


normal 



101b. 

7. Fachinger (Table Water) 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(9i dr. per gallon = & dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Sodium Bromide — lb. — oz. | dr. NaBr 0.7 cc. tenthnormal 

Ammonium Chloride - " - " 1 " NH 4 C1 6 
Barium Chloride - « - « ^ « BaCl 1.1 



<< 



a 



a 
a 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



123 



Calcium Chloride 


lib. 


3 OB. 


12 dr. 


CaCk 


93 


cc doublenormal 


Potassium Chloride 


— cc 


3 " 


4 " 


KC1 


3.8 


" normal 


Lithium Chloride 


__ CC 


— it 


3| " 


IiCl 


20 


" tenthnormal 


Magnesium Chloride 


lmt « 


13 " 


8| " 


MgCb 


64 


" doublenormal 


Strontium Chloride 


— <* 


mmm cc 


2J " 


SrCk 


13 


" tenthnormal 


Sodium Iodide 


__ cc 


— cc 


t*i " 


Nal 


0.05 


4« «« 


Iron Sulphate 


_ It 


_ tt 


3J " 


FeSO« 


2 


" normal 


Manganese Sulphate 


__ tt 


__ « 


8A " 


MnSO« 


5 


it «» 


Magnesium Sulphate 


__ il 


__ I< 


14H" 


MgSO« 


4.6 


" doublenonnal 


Sodium Carbonate 


7 " 


7 " 


4 " 


Na,CO> 


565 


<< n 


Sodium Nitrate 


Ml i< 


n <i 


A" 


NaNO, 


0.35 


" tenthnormal 


Sodium Phosphate 


_ Ci 


_ II 


1 " 


Na«HPO 


4 1.4 


it tt 


Sodium Silicate 


__ cc 


2 " 


H " 


Na^SiO, 


20 


" normal 



101b. 

8. Franzensbad (Salt-Spring) 

Sail Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(12} dr* P^ gallon = \\ dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 



Calcium Chloride 


-lb. 


6 os. 


14 dr. 


, CaCU 44 cc. doublenormal 


Lithium Chloride 


__ n 


__ cc 


1| " 


LiCl 13 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Chloride 


2 " 


2 " 


_ tt 


NaCl 217 " doublenormal 


Iron Sulphate 


_ u 


t it 


6} " 


FeS0 4 5.1 " normal 


Manganese Sulphate 


mm _ u 


_ it 


i " 


MnS0 4 7 " tenthnormal 


Magnesium Suphate 


__ tt 


5 " 


it 


MgSOc 32 " doublenormal 


Sodium Sulphate 


5 " 


2 " 


12 " 


Na*S0 4 530 " 


Sodium Carbonate 


1 " 


10 " 


6 " 


Na,CO, 170 " 


Sodium Phosphate 


_ tt 


__ a 


11 " 


Na,HP0 4 12 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Silicate 


_ tt 
101b. 


4 " 


5| " 


Na^SiO, 56 " normal 


9. 


Fbiedrichshall Bitter Water 


JSalt Mixture: 






Normal Solutions: 


r (6} dr. per gallon = 


= f dr. 


per glass.) 


(For 10 gallons.) 


Sodium Bromide 


-lb. 


— oz. 


131 dr. 


XaBr 52 cc. tenthnormal 


Calcium Chloride 


tt 


7 " 


5 " 


CaClj 23.5 " doublenormal 


Potassium Chloride 


__ tt 


1 " 


i " 


KC1 6.7 " normal 


Sodium Chloride 


4 " 


8 " 


7 " 


NaCl 233 " doublenormal 


Magnesium Sulphate 


4 " 


5 " 


8 " 


MgSO« 222 " 


Sodium Sulphate 


_ « 


4 " 


14 " 


Na-S0 4 15.6 " 


Sodium Carbonate 


tt 


4 " 


tt 


Xa,CO, 12.8 " 



101b. 

10. Harzer Sauerbrunnen 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(21 dr. per gallon = i dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Calcium Chloride 1 lb. 14 oz. - dr. CaCl, 38.4 cc. doublenormal 

Potassium Chloride - " - " 15 " KC1 2.4 " normal 



124 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Magnesium Chlorid2 — lb. 4 oz. 9 dr." 

Sodium Chloride 4 " 7 " 14 

Sodium Sulphate - " 2 " 10 

Sodium Carbonate 3 " - " - 

Sodium Silicate - " 2 " - 



lr: MgCl, 


5.8 cc. doublenormal 


" NaCl 


92 " " 


" Na,S0 4 


3.6 " 


" Na,CQi 


61.5 " 


" Na£iO, 


5.2 " normal 



101b. 



11. Hunyadi-Janos, Hungarian Bitter Water (Ofen, 

Hungary) 



Salt Mixture: 


Normal Solutions: 


(1 oz. 3 dr. per gallon = 1 dr. per glass.) 


(For 10 gallons.) 


Calcium Chloride — lb. 4 oz. — dr. 


CaCla 220 cc. doublenormal 


Sodium Chloride ' - " 1 " 9 " 


NaCl 80 " 


Iron Sulphate - " - " J " 


FeS0 4 1.7" normal 


Potassium Sulphate - " - " 6J " 


K£0 4 42 " 


Magnesium Sulphate 4 " 6 " 15 " 


MgS0 4 3800 " doublenormal 


Sodium Sulphate 4 " 8 " - " 


Na£0 4 3500 " 


Sodium Carbonate - " 11 " - " 


Na,CQt 590 " 


Sodium Silicate - " - " 1J " 


NatSiO, 10 " normal 



101b. 

12. Karlsbad, Muhlbrunnen (Bohemia) 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(1 oz. per gallon = 5 dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Calcium Chloride — lb. 8 oz. 5 dr. CaCl* 66.5 cc. doublenormal 

6J " LiCl 
11 



Lithium Chloride — 
Magnesium Chloride — 
Sodium Chloride 
Potassium Sulphate 
Sodium Sulphate 
Sodium Carbonate 
Sodium Biborate 

(Borax) 
Sodium Silicate 



<( 



n 



1 " 

tt 

4 " 

2 " 

n 

« 



4 " 
11 " 

5 " 
9 " 
5 " 



(< 
n 

tt 



tt 



tt 



8 

ii " 



MgCl, 
NaCl 
K^0 4 
Na,S0 4 



62.5 " tenthnormal 
37.5 " doublenormal 



216 

80 

588 



« 



tt 



" normal 

" doublenormal 
« 



Na,CO, 296 " 
NaaBA 18.5 " normal 



tt 



NajSiO, 64.5 



tt 



tt 



101b. 



13. Kissingen, Rakoczi (Bavaria) 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 

(1 oz. 3 dr. per gallon = 1 dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 

Sodium Bromide — lb. — oz. 5 

Ammonium Chloride — " — " j 

Calcium Chloride 1 " 12 " - 

Lithium Chloride - " - " 7 

Magnesium Chloride — " 10 " J 
Sodium Chloride 6 " 6 " 6 



dr. 


NaBr 


60 cc. 


, tenthnormal 


n 


NH 4 C1 


7.4 " 


tt 


tt 


CaCl, 


265 " 


doublenormal 


tt 


LiCl 


83 " 


tenthnormal 


tt 


MfeCl, 


95 " 


doublenormal 


it 


NaCl 


970 " 


u 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



125 



Potassium Sulphate — lb. 
Magnesium Sulphate — 
Sodium Phosphate — 
Sodium Silicate — 



n 



« 



7oz. — dr. 

9 " - " 

2 " 5 " 
- " 8J 



u 



K2SO4 133 cc. normal 
MgSO« 85 " doublenormal 
NaiHP04 44 " normal 
Na^iO, 100 



11 



101b. 



14. Lbvico, Iron-Arsenic Spring (South Tyrol) 



Salt Mixture: 
(3} dr. per gallon = fa dr. per glass.) 



Arsenous Acid 


-lb. 


— OZ. 


If dr. 


Sulphuric Acid 


__ tt 


11 " 


15 " 


Ammonium Chloride 


_ tt 


__ tt 


111 " 


Calcium Chloride 


1 " 


8 " 


11 " 


Aluminum Sulphate 


__ tt 


1 " 


10 " 


Copper Sulphate 


m _ tt 


— it 


9J " 


Iron Sulphate 


4 " 


13 " 


7 " 


Potassium Sulphate 


tt 


_ u 


If" 


Magnesium Sulphate 


1 " 


10 " 


12i " 



Normal Solutions: 
(For 10 gallons.) 

4 cc. tenthnormal 



<< 



normal 
" tenthnormal 



AsjO, 

HjS0 4 40 

NH4CI 24 

CaCl 2 42.5 " doublenormal 

Al 2 (S0 4 )i 60 " normal 

CuSO« 20 " tenthnormal 

FeS0 4 251 " normal 

K»S0 4 0.4 " 

MgS0 4 46 " doublenormal 



101b. 



15. Marienbad, Kreuzbrunnen (Bohemia) 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutiojis: 

(1 oz. 6 dr. per gallon «= 1 J dr. per glass.) (For 10 gallons.) 



Aluminum Chloride 


-lb. 


— OZ. 


l|dr. 


A1C1* 


19 


cc. 


tenthnormal 


Calcium Chloride 


1 " 


__ tt 


9 " 


CaCl 2 


184 


(< 


doublenormal 


Potassium Chloride 


_ it 


__ tt 


14 " 


KC1 


19.5 


tt 


normal 


Lithium Chloride 


mmm it 


tt 


li " 


LiCl 


21 


tt 


tenthnormal 


Sodium Chloride 


1 " 


3 " 


6 " 


NaCl 


215 


tt 


doublenormal 


Iron Sulphate 


mmm tt 


_ a 


134 " 


FeS0 4 


18 


tt 


normal 


Manganese Sulphate 


_ mm tt 


._ tt 


li « 


MnS0 4 


15.7 


n 


<< 


Magnesium Sulphate 


_ tt 


11 " 


7 " 


MgS0 4 


122 


n 


doublenormal 


Sodium Sulphate 


4 " 


13 " 


__ tt 


Na*S0 4 


856 


a 


tt 


Sodium Carbonate 


2 " 


1 " 


8 " 


NajCO, 


373 


tt 


tt 


Sodium Phosphate 


__ tt 


_ tt 


2J " 


Na»SiO, 


35 


tt 


normal 



101b. 

16. Neuenahr, 

Salt Mixture: 

(5 dr. per gallon = fa oz. per glass.) 

Calcium Chloride — lb. 12 oz. 
Lithium Chloride - " 
Magnesium Chloride 2 " 5 " 
Potassium Sulphate - " 7 " 
Manganese Sulphate — " 5 " 
Magnesium Sulphate — " 4 " 



Sprudel 

Normal Solutions: 
(For 10 gallons.) 



-dr. 


CaCl, 


31 cc. doublenormal 


H " 


LiCl 


3.6 " tenthnormal 


__ tt 


MgCl, 


94.5 " doublenormal 


8| " 


K2SO4 


38.7 " normal 


2 " 


MnS0 4 


26 " " 


7 " 


MgSO« 


23 " doublenormal 



126 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Sodium Carbonate 5 lb. 6 ox. 12 dr. Na*CO» 222 cc. doublenormal 
Sodium Silicate - " 7 " 1 " Na«SiOi 36 " normal 



101b. 



17. NlEDER SSLTEBS 



Most artificial setters waters are made to resemble the nature 


water from this spring. 


















Salt Mixture: 










Normal Solutions: 


(9 1 dr. per gallon = 


= J dr. 


pei 


* glass.) 




(For 10 gallons.) 


Sodium Bromide 


- lb. 


— 


oz. 


1A 


dr. 


NaBr 


. 5 cc. 


tenthnormal 


Ammonium Chloride 


i it 


— 


<< 


3) 


(I 


NH 4 C1 


2.1 


a 


normal 


Barium Chloride 


__ tt 


— 


n 


i 


tt 


Bad, 


1.5 


n 


tenthnormal 


Calcium Chloride 


__ it 


15 


u 


11 


tt 


CaClt 


71.5 


a 


doublenormal 


Potassium Chloride 


i tt 


— 


tt 


8 


tt 


KC1 


4.8 


a 


normal 


Lithium Chloride 


__ tt 


— 


u 


21 


tt 


IiCl 


15 


a 


tenthnormal 


Magnesium Chloride 


i tt 


8 


u 


12 


tt 


JVfgCl, 


41.5 


tt 


doublenormal 


Sodium Chloride 


4 " 


10 


tt 


4! 


tt 


NaCl 


352 


tt 


tt 


Strontium Chloride 


<< 


— 


a 


J 


tt 


SrCl, 


0.8 


tt 


tenthnormal 


Sodium Iodide 


__ a 


— 


tt 


A 


tt 


Na 


0.4 


tt 


it 


Iron Sulphate 


___ <« 


— 


tt 


21 


tt 


FeS0 4 


1.5 


tt 


normal 


Magnesium Sulphate 


___ << 


1 


tt 


4 


tt 


MgSO< 


6 


u 


doublenormal 


Manganese Sulphate 


n 


— 


it 


1 


tt 


M11SO4 


0.3 


u 


normal 


Sodium Carbonate 


3 " 


10 


tt 


— 


tt 


Na,CO, 


275 


tt 


doublenormal 


Sodium Nitrate 


mmm k 


— 


a 


41 


tt 


NaNO. 


2.6 


tt 


normal 


Sodium Phosphate 


i a 


— 


tt 


1 


tt 


Na,HP0 


>4 3 


tt 


tt 


Sodium Silicate 


it 


1 


n 


21 


ft 


NatSiO, 


11 


u 


u 



101b. 



18. Pyrmont, Head-Spring; Steel-Spring 



Salt Mixture: 
(3i dr. per gallon = tV dr. per glass.) 



Sodium Bromide 



— lb. — oz. 



Aluminum Chloride — " — 
Ammonium Chloride — 
Barium Chloride — 
Calcium Chloride 1 

Potassium Chloride — 
Lithium Chloride — 
Strontium Chloride — 
Sodium Iodide — 

Iron Sulphate — 

Manganese Sulphate — 
Magnesium Sulphate 3 
Sodium Sulphate 



tt 
a 
tt 
tt 
tt 



tt 
tt 
a 
tt 

3 " 



n 



a 



tt 



I dr. 

A" 

3} " 

i " 

7 " 

8i " 

m 
5 

<( 1 tt 

— Ta 
7 " 12 " 

- " 10 " 
9 " 6 " 

10 " 131 " 



10 " 

1 " 

tt 



a 



a 



tt 



Normal Solutions: 
(For 10 gallons.) 



NaBr 

A1CU 

NH4CI 

BaCl, 

CaCl, 

KC1 

LiCl 

SrCl, 

Nal 

FeS0 4 

MnS0 4 

MgS0 4 

Na^0 4 



0.3 cc. tenthnormal 

0.075" 

0.7 " 



tt 



1.2 
48.2 

5.5 

4.2 

1.2 

0.075" 
28.3 " 

2.3 " 
105 
32 



tt 
u 
tt 



" doublenormal 

normal 

tenthnormal 
tt 

tt 
normal 



tt 



doublenormal 

tt 



NON-ALOOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



127 



Sulphuric Acid* — lb. — oz. — dr. H*S0 4 118.2 cc. normal 

(omitted in salt mixture) 
Sodium Nitrate - " - " J 

Sodium Phosphate - " - " J 

Sodium Silicate - " 6 " 11 



tt 



a 



u 



NaNO, 0.6 
Na*HP0 4 0.6 
NatSiOs 24.5 



" tenthnormal 

tt tt 

" normal 



101b. 



* Free sulphuric acid is used in the form of normal solution. The content 
of sodium sulphate is in this case lower than in the salt mixture. 

19. Salzbrunnen, Crown-Spring (Silesia) 

Salt Mixture: Normal Solutions: 



Sodium Bromide 


-lb. 


— oz. 


i 


dr. 


NaBr 


3.5 cc. 


. tenthnormal 


Ammonium Chloride 


__ tt 


__ «i 


t 


tt 


NH4CI 


2.5 " 


tt 


Calcium Chloride 


1 " 


8 " 


— 


tt 


CaCl, 


75 " 


doublenormal 


Lithium Chloride 


_ u 


_ <« 


1A 


tt 


LiCl 


4.3 " 


tenthnormal 


Magnesium Chloride 


mmm it 


__ tt 


51 


tt 


MgCl, 


2.1 " 


doublenormal 


Strontium Chloride 


M tt 


__ it 


4 


tt 


SrCU 


1.6 " 


tenthnormal 


Iron Sulphate 


— _ « 


_ u 


6 


tt 


FeS0 4 


2.4 " 


normal 


Manganese Sulphate 


_ tt 


m tt 


1 


u 


MnS0 4 


0.4 " 


tt 


Potassium Sulphate 


mmm tt 


3 " 


12 


tt 


K£0 4 


24 " 


tt 


Magnesium Sulphate 


1 " 


11 " 


— 


a 


MgS0 4 


86 " 


doublenormal 


Sodium Carbonate 


6 " 


4 " 


5 


u 


Na,CO, 


320 " 


tt 


Sodium Nitrate 


_ tt 


. tt 


7 


tt 


NaNO, 


5.6 " 


tenthnormal 


Sodium Phosphate 


_ n 


m _ m tt 


A 


a 


Na*HPQ 


, 0.25" 


n 


Sodium Silicate 


a 


3 " 


5 


a 


Na,SiO, 


42 " 


normal 



101b. 



20. Salzschlirf, Bonifacius 

Salt Mixture: 

(2J oz. per gallon =? 2 dr. per glass.) 

Sodium Bromide — lb. — oz. 1 dr. NaBr 

Calcium Chloride 1 " 8 " - " CaCl, 

Potassium Chloride - " 1 " 10 " KC1 

Lithium Chloride - " 2 " 9i " LiCl 



Sodium Chloride 6 " 


5 " 


— 


tt 


NaCl 


Sodium Iodide — " 


i tt 


1 


tt 


Nal 


Iron Sulphate — " 


m n 


2i 


tt 


FeS0 4 


Magnesium Sulphate 1 " 


__ n 


12 


tt 


MgS0 4 


Sodium Sulphate — " 


3 " 


— 


tt 


Na*S0 4 


Sodium Carbonate — " 


8 " 


— 


tt 


Na,CO, 


Sodium Silicate — " 


2 " 


12 


tt 


NasSiO. 



Spring 

Normal Solutions: 

(For 10 gallons.) 

23 cc. tenthnormal 
440 " doublenormal 
60 " normal 
950 " tenthnormal; a 
stronger solution is 
not objectionable. 
1810 cc. doublenormal 
23 " tenthnormal 

5.8 " normal 
307 " doublenormal 
55 " 

147 " " 

100 " normal 



101b. 



128 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



21. Soden, Taunus; Warmbrunnbn No. 3 



Salt Mi 


vture: 








Normal Solutions: 


(i oz. per gallon « 


idr. 


per glass.) 




(For 10 gallons.) 


Sodium Bromide 


-lb. 


— oz. 


|dr. 


NaBr 


3 cc. tenthnormal 


Aluminum Chloride 


i << 


a 


2| " 


Aid, 


1.9 " 


Calcium Chloride 


1 " 


9 " 


___ it 


CaCl, 


160 " doublenormal 


Potassium Chloride 


__ <( 


5 " 


7 " 


KC1 


70 " normal 


Lithium Chloride 


__ >« 


i it 


1J « 


IiCl 


10 " tenthnormal 


Magnesium Chloride 


tt 


14 " 


ill " 


MgCli 


95 " doublenormal 


Sodium Chloride 


4 " 


8 " 


__ n 


NaCl 


568 " 


Iron Sulphate 


___ <( 


8 " 


81 " 


FeS0 4 


7 " normal 


Manganese Sulphate 


_ tt 


i tt 


I" 


MnS0 4 


0.7 " 


Magnesium Sulphate 


tt 


n 


8 " 


MgS0 4 


3.2 " doublenormal 


Sodium Carbonate 


2 " 


8 " 


__ tt 


Na,CO, 


256 " 


Sodium Silicate 


tt 


1 " 


8 " 


Na^SiO, 


19 " normal 



101b. 



22. Spaa, Pouhon 



Salt Mixture: 

(i dr. per gallon = ^ dr. per glass.) 

Aluminum Chloride — lb. 13 oz. 

Calcium Chloride — " 

Magnesium Chloride — " 

Iron Sulphate 4 " 

Manganese Sulphate — " 

Magnesium Sulphate — " 
Potassium Carbonate — " 

Sodium Carbonate 2 " 

Sodium Silicate — " 

Sodium Sulphide — " 

(To be omitted in _ 

salt mixture) 10 lb. 



Normal Solutions: 
(For 10 gallons.) 



13 oz. 


- dr. 


A1CU 


10 


cc. tenthnormal 


11 " 


_ (< 


CaCl, 


4.1 


" doublenormal 


n 


ii " 


MgCl, 


0.03 


tt tt 


13 " 


_ tt 


FeS0 4 


58 


" normal 


1 " 


5 " 


MnS0 4 


1 


tt tt 


6 " 


tt 


MgS0 4 


2.6 


" doublenormal 


2 " 


133 " 


K 2 CO, 


2 


" normal 


3 " 


7 " 


Na 2 CO, 


13 


" doublenormal 


13 " 


4J " 


Na*SiO, 


2 


" normal 


(< 


__ a 


Na,S 


1.7 


" tenthnormal 



23. Tarasp, Lucius Spring 



Salt Mixture: 

(If oz. per gallon = 2 dr. per glass.) 

Ammonium Bromide — lb. — oz. 9 dr. NH 4 Br 

Sodium Bromide - " - " 61 " NaBr 

Calcium Chloride 1 " 7 " - " CaCl 2 

Lithium Chloride - " - " \ " LiCl 

Magnesium Chloride - " 9 " - " MgCl, 

Sodium Chloride 2 " 12 " - " NaCl 

Sodium Iodide - " - " J " Nal 



Normal Solutions: 

(For 10 gallons.) 

90 cc. tenthnormal 

62.5 " 

184 " doublenormal 

5 " tenthnormal 

72 " doublenormal 

352 " 

2.5 " tenthnormal 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



Potassium Sulphate 
Sodium Sulphate 
Sodium Carbonate 
Sodium Nitrate 
Sodium Biborate 

(Borax) 
Sodium Phosphate 
Sodium Silicate 



-dr 


K.SO, 


112 c 


□. normal 


— " 


Na,SO, 


240 


doublenonnal 


1 " 


NB.CO, 


336 




i " 


NaNO, 


1.3 


tenthnormal 


1 " 


Na,Ii,07 


59 


normal 


i " 


Na,HPO 


0.3 


tenthnormal 


31 '• 


Na^iO, 


33 


normal 



24. Vicht, Grande Grille 



Soli Mixture: 








Normal Solution*: 


(12 dr. per gallon - H dl 


per 


glass.) 




(For 10 gallons.) 


Calcium Chloride — lb. 


11 


i. -dr 


CaCl, 


70 cc. doublenonnal 


Magnesium Chloride — " 


6 ' 


— " 


MgCl, 


30 " 


Strontium Chloride - " 


— ' 


U " 


8rO, 


0.8 " tenthnormal 


Iron Sulphate — " 


— < 


2 " 


FeS0 4 


0.8 " normal 


Magnesium Sulphate — " 


3 ' 


6 " 


MgSO, 


20 " doublenonnal 


Sodium Sulphate — " 


5 ' 


12 " 


Na£0, 


35 " 


Potassium Carbonate — " 


8 ■ 


H" 


K.CO, 


100 " normal 


Sodium Carbonate 7 " 


5 ■ 


7 " 


Na*SO, 


716 " doublenormal 


Sodium Phosphate — " 


4 ' 


6 " 


Na.HPO ( 53 " normal 


Sodium Arsenate — " 


— ' 


W 


Na*\sO 


0.8 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Silicate — " 


4 ' 


12 " 


Na>SiO. 


61 " normal 


10 lb. 











25. Wiesbaden, Kochbrunnen 



Sail Mixture: 






formal Solutions: 


(1 oi. 4 dr. per gallon - lj dr 


per glass.) 


(For 10 gallons.) 


Sodium Bromide — lb. — o 


. ljdr 


NaBr 


12 cc . tenthnormal 


Aluminum Chloride — 


' — ' 


A" 


AlCIt 


1.5 " 


Ammonium Chloride — 


' — ' 


5 " 


NH.C1 


4 » « 


Potassium Chloride — 


' 3 ' 


3 " 


KC1 


40.5 " normal 


Lithium Chloride — 


' — ' 


A" 


LiCl 


0.5 " tenthnormal 


Magnesium Chloride 1 


' 2 ' 


10| - 


MgCl, 


120 " doublenormal 


Sodium Chloride 7 


' 15 ' 


1 " 


NaC] 


813 " 


Iron Sulphate — 


' - ' 


2{ " 


FeSO« 


1.9 " normal 


Manganese Sulphate — 


' — ' 


i" 


MnSO« 


0.1 " 


Sodium Sulphate — 


' 1 ' 


13 " 


Na,SO« 


11.6 " doublenormal 


Sodium Carbonate 2 


' 6 ' 


61 - 


Na,CO, 


41 " 


Sodium Phosphate — 


' — ■ 


1" 


Na,HPO 


1 " tenthnormal 


Sodium Arsenate — 


' — * 


A" 


Na,AsOi 


0.5 " " 


Sodium Silicate — 


' 2 ' 


V." 


Na£iO, 


29 " normal 



130 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



26. Wildungen, Gborg- Victor Brunnen 



Salt Mixture: 
(2J dr. per gallon — i dr. per glass.) 
Ammonium Chloride — lb. — oz. 2f dr. NH4CI 



(< 



Barium Chloride — 
Calcium Chloride — 
Iron Sulphate — 

Potassium Sulphate — 
Manganese Sulphate — 
Sodium Sulphate — 
Sodium Carbonate — " 
Sodium Silicate — 

Calcium Carbonate 5 
Magnesium Carbonate 3 



<< 



a 



11 



11 



«i 



<< 



ti 



tt 



It 



tt 



3 " 

1 " 

__ tt 

7 " 

4 " 
6 " 

5 " 

2 " 



i " 
15 

3 

HI 
6i 



n 



u 



tt 



tt 



12 



13 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



BaCl, 
CaCl, 
FeS0 4 
K.S04 
MnS0 4 

Na£0 4 
Na,CO, 
Na,SiO, 



Normal Solutions: 

(For 10 gallons.) 

4 cc. tenthnormal 
0.8 " 

0.9 " doublenormal 
normal 



n 



tt 



a 



tt 



doublenormal 



101b. 



7 

33 

0.8 " 

7.5 " 

4.5 " 

13 " 

= 6 dr. dry calcium carbonate 
= 10J dr. dry magnesium car- 
bonate. 



tt 



normal 



27. Wildungen, Helenen Spring 



Salt Mixture: 
(8 dr. for 1 gallon = £ dr. per glass.) 
Ammonium Chloride — lb. — oz. 5 dr. NH4CI 



Barium Chloride — " 

Calcium Chloride 3 " 

Potassium Chloride — " 

Magnesium Chloride — " 

Iron Sulphate — 

Potassium Sulphate — 

^Manganese Sulphate — " 

Sodium Carbonate 4 " 

Sodium Silicate — " 
Magnesium Carbonate 1 " 



n 



it 



5 " 

tt 

__ tt 
tt 

1 " 

__ tt 

6 " 

3 " 

14 " 



I " 



tt 



3i " 

2 " 

15| " 

3J " 

1 " 

9 " 

4J " 
4 



n 



10 lb. 



Normal Solutions: 
(For 10 gallons.) 

2.5 cc. tenthnormal 
1.8 " 

212 " doublenormal 

1.6 " normal 
0.5 " doublenormal 
8 " normal 
9.6 " 
0.5 " normal 

284 " doublenormal 
26 " normal 
= 15 dr. dry magnesium car- 
bonate. 



BaCl, 

CaCU 

KC1 

MgCl, 

FeSO* 

K^0 4 

MnSO* 

Na,CO, 

Na^iO, 



C. Medicinal Waters and Similar Preparations 

1. Acid Effervescent Waters, by Jacobsen 

The various acids are weighed, filled into the 12-oz. bottles, 
dissolved in a few cubic centimeters of water if necessary, and the 
bottles then filled with saturated carbonic-acid water. 

(a) Citric Acid crystals, & dr. per bottle. 
(6) PhosphoriclAcid (25%), ft dr. per bottle. 

(c) Citro-phosphoric Acid: 

Phosphoric Acid (25%), \ dr. I ^^ 
Citric Acid, cryst., \ dr. J 

(d) Hydrochloric Acid (25%), ft dr. per bottle. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 131 



2. Effervescent Waters, by Jaworski 

(a) Alkaline Effervescent Water 
(Salts for 10 gallons.) 



Stronger 



Sodium Bicarbonate 

Sodium Salicylate 

Sodium Biborate (Borax) 




(6) Effervescent Magnesia Water 

(For 10 gallons.) 

Magnesium Carbonate 8 oz. 6 dr. 

Salicylic Acid 1 " 7& " 

Dissolve the acid in hot water and add the carbonate. 

3. Effervescent Salts 

(a) General Employment 

For 1 lb. of any mineral-water-salt mixture use additionally 

Sodium Bicarbonate 9 oz. 

Tartaric Acid 8 " 

or, a mixture of 

Citric Acid 4 oz. 

Tartaric Acid 5 " 

(6) Effervescent Bromide Salt 

Potassium Bromide 2 oz. 2\ dr. 

Sodium Bromide 2 " 2J 

Ammonium Bromide 1 " lj** 

Sodium Bicarbonate 5 " 5^ 

Citric Acid 2 " 1 

Tartaric Acid 2 " 6 

Sugar, finely powdered — " 14 

lib. 

If the powder is to be granulated, mix 1 lb. of it with about 2 \ 
ounces of absolute alcohol to form a paste, then press through a 
coarse sieve and then dry at a temperature of not over 100° F. 
When dried, sift off the powder, mix this again with some alcohol, 
and treat in the same manner as before. 

(c) Effervescent Bromide-Iron Salt 

Add to the above salt mixture for Bromide Salt 
Iron and Sodium Phosphate, 14 dr. per lb. 
Granulate, if required, in the manner already described. 



132 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



(d) Effervescent Lithium Salt 

Lithium Carbonate - os. 12f dr. 

Sodium Bicarbonate 8 " 1J " 

Citric Acid 2 " 14 " 

Tartaric Acid 4 " 4 " 

lib. 
Granulate in the manner above described. 

(e) Effervescent Magnesium Citrate 

Magnesium Carbonate 1 o«. 12 dr. 

Citric Acid 6 " 6 " 

Distilled Water 12 " 

Allow to dry at a temperature not exceeding 100° F. Add now 

Sodium Bicarbonate 4 o«. 2 dr. 

Citric Acid 2 " 8 " 

Sugar, finely powdered 1 " 4 " 

lib. 
Granulate as above described. 



4. Medicinal Effervescent Waters, by Jaworski 

Any medicinal substance can be adapted to be taken as a medic- 
inal water. The salts required for such a water are similar to 
those present in blood serum, which contains about the following: 



0.2% Potassium Sulphate 
0.3% Potassium Chloride 
5.5% Sodium Chloride 
0.7% Sodium Phosphate 
3 % Sodium Carbonate 



(K*S0 4 ) 

(KC1) 

(NaCl) 

(Na,HP0 4 ) 

(NajCOj) = 4.74% sodium bicarbonate 



0.3% Magnesium Carbonate (MgCOs) = 0.53% magnesium bicarbonate 
The following solution is the equivalent of the above: 



Anhydrous Salts: 


Normal Solutions: 


(For 10 gallons.) 


(For 1 gallon.) 


Potassium Sulphate 


- lb. 3 oz. 2|J dr. 


K 2 S0 4 81.3 cc. normal 


Potassium Chloride 


- " 4 " 12J " 


KC1 121.6 " 


Sodium Chloride 


5 " 8 " 12i " 


NaCl 1136 " double- 
normal 


Sodium Phosphate 


— " 11 " 2 " 


Na,HP0 4 284.6 " normal 


Sodium Carbonate 


2 " 15 " 6A " 


Na*CO, 608 " double- 
normal 


Magnesium Carbonate 


- " 4 " 12J " 


13| dr. dry MgCO, 


Carbonated water 


about 9 gal. 


sufficient carbonated water to 


To make 


10 gallons 


make 1 gallon 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



133 



This affords a salt content of about 10%, and the solution is 
called "Normal"; the dilutions may be half normal, one-third- 
normal, etc., and then contain the correspondingly smaller quanti- 
ties of salts, the dilutions being made with carbonated water. 

A differentiation is to be made between Mineral Medicinal 
Waters, which contain only inorganic salts, and Organic Medicinal 
Waters, which contain organic besides inorganic salts. The 
medicinal effect of the inorganic or organic salts is believed to be 
improved by the normal salts, which promote the absorbability 
and improve the taste. The concentration of the solutions should 
always be varied according to the pathological condition of the 
patient. Regarding the labeling of such medicinal waters, only 
their chemical constituents should be expressed, and it should 
never be represented as a specific or proprietary secret remedy. 

5. Various Medicinal Waters 
(a) Absenic Water 

Salts for 10 gallons: Normal Solutions for 10 gallons: 

Potassium Chloride — oz. 2\ dr. = KC1 
Sodium Chloride - " 10 " NaCl 
Sodium Phosphate - " 11 " N*HP0 4 
Sodium Carbonate 2 " 12 " Na,CO, 
Arsenous Acid — " J " AssOs 

(6) Bromide Water 

(For 10 gallons.) 
(a) J normal. 

Sodium Bromide (NaBr) 

6 oz. 6 dr. «■ 1632 cc. normal 
Sodium Phosphate (Na,HP0 4 ) 

— oz. 11 dr. = 176 cc. normal 
Sodium Carbonate (NajCOi) 

1 oz. 2 dr. — 144 cc. double- 
normal 



40 cc. 


normal 


80 " 


doublenormal 


176 " 


normal 


272 " 


doublenormal 


40 " 
R 


tenthnormal 


(6) Normal. 



14 oz. 6 dr. = 3680 cc. normal 



- " 11 



1 



tt 



tt 



tt 



= 176 



H 



tt 



= 144 " double- 
normal 



Magnesium Chloride 
Sodium Chloride 
Sodium Sulphate 
Sodium Carbonate 
Sodium Phosphate 
Ferro-sodium Pyro- 
phosphate 



— oz. 

_ , tt 

1 " 
1 " 
1 " 



(c) Iron Water 

(For 10 gallons.) 
8| dr. = MgCl, 



tt 



2 
12J 

51 •" 

2 
13J " 



(< 



tt 



tt 



69 cc. doublenormal 

16 " 
102 
170 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



= NaCl 
= NajSO* 

- Na,CO, 

- NajHPO* 288 " normal 
= Sodium 468 " 

Pyrophosphate 



a 



134 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Potassium Chloride 


— oz. 


Sodium Chloride 


__ ti 


Sodium Iodide 


3 " 


Sodium Carbonate 


1 " 


Sodium Phosphate 


n 


Potassium Chloride 


2 oz. 


Sodium Chloride 


1 " 


Sodium Carbonate 


2 " 


Lithium Carbonate 


2 " 



40 cc. normal 

80 " doublenormal 

normal 

doublenormal 

normal 



M 



« 



(d) Iodine Water 

(For 10 gallons.) 

2i dr. - KC1 

10 " - NaCl 

6 " = Nal 864 
12 '• = Na,CQi 224 

6| " - NaJIP0 4 106 " 

(e) Lithia Water 

(For 10 gallons.) 

2 oz. 31 dr. = KC1 40 cc. normal 

7 " - NaCl 184 " doublenormal 
14 " - Na,CO, 368 " 
14 " = 2 oz. 14 dr. as dry substance; the 

solubility of this salt is limited. 

(/) Lithia-Soda Water 

(For 10 gallons.) 



Lithium Chloride 


5 oz, 


. 6Adr. = LiCl 1381 cc. normal 


Sodium Carbonate 


9 " 


- " - Na,CQi 648 " doublenormal 




to) 


Magnesia Water 

(For 10 gallons.) 


Potassium Chloride 


— oz. 


2J dr. = KC1 40 cc. normal 


Sodium Chloride 


__ (( 


7J " = NaCl 60 " doublenormal 


Potassium Sulphate 


n 


21 " - K^0 4 40 " normal 


Sodium Sulphate 


11 " 


141 " - NajS0 4 1524 " doublenormal 


Magnesium Carbonate 


11 " 


- " =11 oz. dry MgCd 


(h) 


Silica-Calcium-Iron Water 






(For 10 gallons.) 


Calcium Chloride 


— oz. 


7| dr. = CaCl 2 61 cc. doublenormal 


Iron Sulphate 


<( 


1 " = FeS0 4 8 " normal 


Magnesium Sulphate 


m (( 


9 " = MgS0 4 72 " doublenormal 


Sodium Sulphate 


1 " 


6 " = Na»S0 4 176 " " 


Sulphuric Acid 


<( 


7 " - H*S0 4 112 " normal 


Sodium Silicate 


6 " 


6 " = NajSiO, 1632 " " 


Calcium Carbonate 


1 " 


7 " = as dry CaCO, 


(i) 


Urosin-Calcium-Iron Water 


Calcium Chloride 


— oz. 


7| dr. = CaClj 61 cc. doublenormal 


Iron Sulphate 


__ «( 


1 " = FeS0 4 8 " normal 


Magnesium Sulphate 


l t( 


9 " = MgS0 4 72 " doublenormal 


Sodium Sulphate 


1 " 


6 " = NaaSO, 176 " 


Sulphuric Acid 


— oz. 


7 dr. = HjS0 4 112 cc. normal 


Sodium Silicate 


_ _ (( 


i " - NasSiO, 4 " 


Urosin (Lithium Quin- 


6 " 


6 " ■* as dry Urosin. 


ate) 







NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



135 



6. Saccharin Lemonades for Diabetics 
Dissolve 2 oz. 6 dr. saccharin and Ij lb. citric acid in 2 lb. 
distilled water and make up to J gallon Employment: J gallon 
solution for 10 gallons saturated carbonated water. 




Fie. 20. BydnuL 



1L THE FRUIT-JUICE INDUSTRY 
Constituents of the Fruits and Fruit Juices 

Fruits contain up to 75% water holding a number of sub- 
stances in solution, antl also undissolved matter consisting 
chiefly of cellulose and inorganic substances which promote the 
growth of the plant, particularly calcium salts and silicic acid. 
Some of the .soluble substances are of less interest, e.g., coloring 
matters, while some are important, as sugar and fruit acids; and 
these are always accompanied by other carbohydrates, as starch, 
gum, mucilaginous substances, pectin, albumin, etc. 

Sugar is contained in every fruit, but in different amount, 
and it is formed by the transformation of starch during the period 
of ripening. The sugar is mostly dextrose (invert-sugar, starch- 
sugar) and fruit sugar (levutose), which are directly fermentable. 
Some starch is always to 1h> found in many ripe fruits. Stone 
fruits contain gum and various mucilaginous matters, while pectin 
(plant-jelly) is present in large quantity in kernel fruits. The 
latter substances arc of but little value, and so also is the plant- 






136 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

albumin. More important is the content of acids. These exist 
in various quantities as citric, tartaric and malic acids. They 
are nearly equally acid, and without any by-taste. Unripe fruits 
contain most acid, while most sugar is found in ripe fruits, and 
the proportions between both constituents are important for the 
taste of the fruit and its refreshing properties. 

Besides these fruit acids some other acids are to be found, which 
are in a certain sense to be considered as preservatives, as benzoic, 
boric and salicylic acids. In stone fruits hydrocyanic acid is 
developed, which gives the taste of bitter almonds. Many fruits 
contain tannic acid, which gives an astringent taste. Other less 
important constituents are the mineral salts, usually the chlorides, 
sulphates, phosphates, etc., of potassium and sodium, some iron, 
and other soluble inorganic salts, which are usually designated as 
"nutritive salts," but the value of which is very much overrated. 

The most important constituent is the fruit acid, and the value 
of the juice largely depends upon the content and the strength 
of the acid. The natural coloring matter is very sensitive to alka- 
lies, and is stable in acid solution. Albumin is found in all fruit 
juices. It is partly coagulated at 158 to 180° F. It constitutes 
the foam when syrups are boiled. Pectin is only valuable for mak- 
ing jellies and marmalades because of its property of swelling. 

These constituents are present in varying proportions in all 
fruit juices. The distinguishing feature in all is the character- 
istic fruit flavor. The flavor alone gives the fruit its pleasant 
taste, which in turn is improved by the proportions of acid and 
sugar present. The taste is more developed in acid fruits, but 
becomes usefully evident when the acid taste is corrected by the 
addition of sugar. Hence the flavor of the natural juices first 
becomes of value when the juices are sweetened sufficiently. The 
nature of the flavor is not fully known. Only in citrus fruits, as 
lemons, oranges, etc., is it present in large quantities as volatile 
oil, the flavoring constituent of which can be isolated. The 
flavoring substances have much similarity with the volatile oils, 
and very probably they, too, consist of alcohols, esters, ketones 
and similar organic aromatic substances, although only in such 
small quantities that they cannot be isolated in absolutely pure 
form as can be done with the taste-carriers of the oils. 

At all events, however, the flavoring can be transferred to es- 
sences, as described in the manufacture of fruit essences. The 



137 



aroma is elaborated during the ripening of the iron* and ts formed 
to greatest extent when the frah is fuDy exposed to sunlight. 
It disappears when the fruit becomes soft or overripe. When 
covered with a coating of wax the frah keeps better, and frequently 
the flavor then develops only on keeping. The flavor is very 
sensitive to fermentation processes. These alter the flavor in 
various ways. In some cases the flavor is deteriorated, in others 
it is increased. This change is due to the fact that the finer 
flavoring substances in particular often disappear and pass over 
into a general taste, or that some other flavors are formed which 
also alter the taste. 

The most sensitive are the flavors of strawberry, pineapple 
and banana, and less so, those of peaches and apricots, while 
those of raspberry, gooseberry and some other berries are but 
slightly sensitive. The taste is more developed by fermentation 
of apples, pears, all stone fruits, and particularly black currants, 
which develop a taste quite different from that of the fresh fruit. 
On the other hand the flavor is influenced by heat, and at a temper- 
ature above 160° F. there is often developed a "boiled" taste. 
The following table shows the average percentage composition of 

the fruits: 

(a) Average Percentage Composition of Fruits 



Fruit. 



Agriots 

Apple, Canadian 

Apple, for cider 

Apple, winter fruit 

Apple, average — . 

Apricot r 

Bilberry 

Blackberry 

Cherry, light-red 

Cherry, dark-red 

Currents, black 

Currants, red 

Currants, white 

Gooseberry, red 

Gooseberry, yellow 

Grapes 

MirabeUes 

Peaches 

Pears 

Plums 

Raspberry, wild fruit 

Raspberry, garden fruit.. 

Green Gages 

Strawberry, garden fruit 
Strawberry, wild fruit. . . 




0.630 
2460 
2 950 
4.010 
2.760 
9.120 
12.865 
6.494 
5.930 
6.400 
3.490 
4.480 
4.850 
3.000 
4.835 
4.740 
6.549 
5.615 
6.531 
5.330 
8.640 
4.608 
4.887 
1.960 
6.032 



Sugar. Acid. 



12 880 

15.340 

11.450 

10.160 

12.250 

5.920 

9.583 

8.100 

20 700 

13.100 

11 152 

10.250 

11.730 

11.435 

9.801 

15.290 

11.215 

9.385 

13.450 

12.540 

7.480 

8.835 

.5.393 

10.566 

6.697 



80.490 
82.200 
86.000 
85 830 
84.740 
84.960 
77.552 
86.406 
73.370 
79.700 
85 355 
85.270 
83.420 
85.565 
85.364 
79.970 
82.236 
85 000 
80.200 
81.930 
83.860 
86.557 
79.720 
87.474 
87.271 



8 77 
5 96 
7.81 
7.58 
7.46 
1.14 
1.34 
4.44 
13.51 
10.77 

5 65 

6 44 

7 12 
8.06 
7.50 

13.78 
3 58 
1.58 
26 
5 79 
3 59 
4.70 
3 40 
7.57 
3.24 



1 277 
390 

380 
1.040 
0.820 
0.890 
0.858 

1 180 
350 
56 

.650 
.840 
530 
.358 
334 
020 
0.682 
612 

580 
0.952 
1.080 

1 365 
0.870 
1 130 
1 650 



1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 



Min- 




eral 




sub- 


Pectose. 


stances. 




652 


246 


220 


2 700 


170 


2 040 


440 


1 700 


320 


3 900 


820 


5 870 


0.256 


256 


414 


1 420 


690 


1 460 


678 


664 


0.-20 


2 380 


0.670 


720 


0.700 


610 


0.317 


294 


277 


1 066 


369 


490 


670 


1 0N0 


422 


642 


0.280 


3 010 


0.734 


630 


227 


180 


0.481 


602 


398 


246 


0.480 


900 


0.737 


0.9 



Juice 
yield. 



65*75 



55 75 

65 75 
75 82 

65 76 

64 76 
78 82 
67 75 

65 76 

65 78 



6,1 77 

65 NO 
65 NO 



138 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

(6) Fkuit Juices: Content of Sugar and Acid, Possibility op Concen- 
tration, and Kinds ot Fruit Acids and Accompanying Acids. 


Fruit. 


e_ 


%*oid.> 


bility 


A ciii* present. 1 


Mio- 


Hai- 


ur 


Min- 


Kn- 


£ 


Acriou 


71 
t t 

4 i 

7 3 

i- | 

• 1 

t s 


13 3 

.■< a 

; . 

7 2 

' "ii 

■ ■! 

It 6 
11 S 

81 


| -: 

BIT 

: i« 

3 40 
7 IS 

4 7i 

W 
| i.i 

V •! 

ii a 
1 1 

14 

1 sx 

» JO 

hi no 

a ■'•. 

7 U 
i U 

<. AS 

C ■ 

M mi 

«to 

.1 13 

'. r. 

5 7; 
IN 


03 

i a 
n i 

1 9 

9 
03 

08 


ot 

1 8 
1 8 
1 3 

1 8 

3 1 
1 I 

1 

1 s 


ID 
0.73 
1-M 

1 101 

1.341 
1.11 

a. S3 

■: in 
1.40 

1.41 
0.74 
7.00, 

ii > 

2 M 
1.88 
2.30 

0.07 
0.87 

■ n 

0.80 
040 

4.30 
0.01 
0.89 

1 37 


t 
8 
20 
3D 

10 


8 

8 
■ 


Ma-(Cy) 

M.-(Bo. Syl 

Ma-CilSy. Cyl 

Ha. 

Ma-Ci 

Ma-Ci (Sy) 

Ma-(Cyl 

Ci-TarBil 

Ma-OlSyl 

Ma-Ci-TalSy) 

Ma-Ci 

Ma-Ci-Ta 

Ma-TafBo. Syl 

a 
a 

MalBo, Sy. Cy) 
O, Ta(Ba) 
Ma 

a 
a 

Ma(Bo) 

am. Cy) 

Ci 

Ma(Bo.8y.Cy> 

M»-Ci 

Ma(Cy) 

Ma(Bo.Sy.Cy) 

MalBo. Sy, Cyl 

Ma-Ci (Sy) 

Ci(Sy) 

- 


ass, 




CraDben-y 

Curranie. black 

Currants, red 
Elderberry 
Gonseberry 

Handanna 
Mirabellee 

Mulberry 
Pean 

Poo.eerana» 

Quiooe. 

Green C ;«*» 

Bdm 

Sorhberry — 
Tomawea 


' Tbo acid porceulnie is calculated aa malic acid. Obi. The abbraviations ralarrinc In the 

t Pruti and.: Ma- malic acid, Ci-oitrin acid, Ts-tarlaric add. 
Olktraaii: Bo -boric acid, Bi-benaolc add, Sy-nalicylio acid and Cy-hydroeyeiiic an 

MANUFACTURE OF FRUIT JUICES 
Regard must lie had as to whether the fruits are to be fermented 
or whether they arc to be worked in the fresh state. In cases 
where fermentation impairs the aroma, the fruits must be em- 
ployed as fresh as possible. They must be fully ripe, but not 
too ripe, and all bad or bruised fruit must be removed, as also the 
stalks of the single fruits or from the bunches of grapes, and of 
course also leaves and other impurities that might influence the 
taste and make it harsh. 

According to the nature of the fruits, they may be washed, 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 139 

if they are provided with a substantial peel, but the soft fruits, 
as raspberries, strawberries, etc., must not be washed, because 
the juice would be diluted with the water. These soft fruits need 
also not be crushed, this being necessary only with fruits with a 
substantial skin. The crushing is to be done in special fruit-mills 
provided with stone rollers, because the fruits must not come into 
contact with iron or other metal which would influence the color 
of the juice and also the taste. The more completely the fruits 
are crushed, the easier the pressing, and the larger the quantity 
of juice obtained. 

If fruits are to be fermented, perhaps to develop a certain 
taste, or to follow the requirements of the Pharmacopoeia, it is 
useful to crush the fruits to hasten the manipulation. The fruits 
contain naturally various yeasts, which induce fermentation. A 
temperature of 72 to 86° F. favors the completion of the fermen- 
tation in about 5 to 7 days. To support the fermentation or to 
increase the development of alcohol, it is usual to add to the mash 
about 2 to 5% of sugar which, after inversion by the fruit acid3, 
is then fermented. The alcohol developed improves also the 
flavor, because even so small a quantity as 3 to 6% of alcohol 
promotes a better solution of the flavoring present in the cells. 
The alcohol has the further effect to coagulate albumin and pectin, 
which precipitate in insoluble form and not only clear the juice, 
but facilitate the filtration later on. To recognize the completion 
of the fermentation, filter off some juice, and mix equal parts of 
it and strong alcohol; after half an hour no precipitate should 
form, nor should the liquid become cloudy. If a reaction occurs, 
the pectins are still present, and the fermentation must be con- 
tinued. The fermentation is effected in open vats. If it is de- 
sired to ferment the pressed juice alone, for example to facilitate 
filtration, use closed casks provided with a fermentation bung 
which allows no access of air, but allows the escape of the car- 
bonic acid. To improve the flavor, however, it is better always 
to ferment the total mashed fruit. Usually, fermented fruits 
are more easily pressed because the cells are softened, and the 
yield of juice is larger. The figure at the head of this part shows 
a modern hydraulic press with 2 pressing cases, one of which 
may be emptied or filled, while the other is being pressed. 

The presses are very varied in form, and most of them are 
suitable if they have no iron which can come into contact with 



140 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

i 

the fruit. The method of pressing is so simple and well known 
that it is not necessary to describe it fully. The quantity of 
juice obtained depends upon the power of the press and the condi- 
tion of the fruit. The expressed juice is then ready for use. 
When it is used for syrups immediately after pressing it is neces- 
sary to clear the juice, or it must be preserved in some way, be- 
cause the juice is not stable. 

However, the fruits are not quite exhausted even with the best 
press. The residues retain a considerable quantity of liquid, 
which diminishes the yield to some extent. It is hence usual to 
stir the residue with an equal weight of water and allow the mix- 
ture to stand for an hour or two, when a new pressing affords a 
diluted juice containing a part of the juice retained by the residue. 
Frequently the juice and second pressing are mixed for the pur- 
pose of making a cheaper product, but this must be declared. 
The quantity of second pressing may vary, but it may be compara- 
tively determined by an analysis of the content of mineral sub- 
stances, the quantity of which is diminished, due to the water 
employed for the second pressing. 

Juices with very little color are often mixed with other darker 
colored juices, as cherry or bilberry juice, but this manipulation 
must also be declared. The public, often esteems a juice because 
of its color, and believes that the more highly colored the more 
valuable it is. The possibility of coloring is limited only to the 
use of other natural fruit juices, but, on the other hand, the employ- 
ment of other fruit juices for this purpose is limited according to 
the taste of each juice, which would influence the natural taste 
of the juice to be colored. 

The final operation in the manufacture of fruit juices is the 
clearing and storage. In most cases storage alone is sufficient 
to clear the juice, or at least to facilitate filtration. The latter 
requires a filter of glass, or at least of a resistant silvered metal. 
Other metals may impair the color, and may be dissolved by the 
acid. The filtration is facilitated by the use of asbestos, infusorial 
earth, talcum, etc. In many cases filtration is very difficult 
because of the content of albumin and pectin, and therefore fer- 
mented juices are more easily filtered than unfermented. The 
addition of about 0.5% of skimmed milk also facilitates the 
filtration. The best method is to clear the juices by long standing 
in casks, provided + v ~ ' °& are protected from spoiling. For 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 141 

whatever use the fruit juices are to be put, it is a prime neces- 
sity that they be absolutely clear, because if. is very troublesome 
later on to clear syrups or other preparations of fruit juices. 

THE SPOILING OF FRUIT JUICES AND THE REMEDIES 
As is well known, fruits contain considerable quantities of fer- 
mentible sugar. During fermentation, the sugar disappears 
more or less completely, partly because the fermentation is not 
quite complete, and hence more or less sugar remains in the 
juices. In non-fermented kinds the entire sugar is present, anil 
since the fruits, and of course also the juices, are always infected 
with yeasts, fermentation takes place in the manufactured juice 
and spoils it. The development of alcohol continues the spoiling 
initiated by the bacteria, by the transformation of the alcohol 
formed into acetic acid, and the juices become sour and are then 
still less valuable. 

There are several means for checking the action of the bac- 
teria. The latter are living organisms, and to prevent their 
activity the conditions which favor their living must be inter- 
rupted. This can be done by killing them by means of heat, 
or by chemical means, or at least by means which inhibit the 
development of bacteria, the nutrient media upon which they live 
being made sterile. 

The interruption can be effected with alcohol. Even though 
the alcohol results from the fermentation of sugar, the quantity 
formed is about 15% as the limit, and where more alcohol than 
this is formed, the alcohol is its own poison as to further devel- 
opment. The surest method is hence the addition of alcohol to 
fruit juices to the extent of about 15 to 16% by volume. Such 
juice is very well suited for alcoholic beverages, but not for lemon- 
ades in general, for which purpose most of the juices are employed. 
Besides the high price of the added alcohol, it would be superflu- 
ous, because the alcohol is not needed for the juices themselves, 
while it is undesirable for non-alcoholic beverages. Although the 
alcohol may be distilled off when the alcoholic juices are boiled 
with sugar to a fruit syrup, the trouble is that the sensitive aroma 
is driven off also with the alcohol, and the flavor of the juice is 
diminished. In view of these circumstances, the juices are 
preserved by boiling with sugar to form a syrup, the more so 
sugar is always used with the juices to sweeten them. Sugar 



best 
so as 
ar to 



142 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

the extent of about 60% abstracts from the juice as m 
as is required for its solution, while at the same time the bacteria 
cannot live without water. They are not killed, but their activity 
is interrupted. The technical difficulty involved lies in the in- 
vestment of much capital for sugar for a year's supply, and in that 
the clearing of the juice is very difficult in large quantities when 
the juice is too fresh. The simplest means would be chemical 
methods, in so far as these are harmless, but in this respect many 
disputes have arisen against the judgment of the physicians. 
Thus, the simple employment of salicylic acid, which has been 
used for decades in the household, is believed to be injurious, just 
as is the very convenient formic acid. Where in some countries 
its employment is allowed, of course with the pro]>er declaration, 
the quantity is limited so that the single quantities are not likely 
to injure the health. For salicylic acid the limit is 0.05%, and for 
formic acid 0.25% as pure acid = 1% of the 25% formic acid. 
Regarding formic acid it is to be remembered that it is a volatile 
acid which distils off, at least partly, when the juice is boiled into 
syrup. 

In some countries benzoic acid or sodium benzoate is allow 
The percentage allowed is 0.05% as benzoic acid, and this pr 
ative must also be declared.* Good results are obtained by 
serving juices with hydrofluoric acid. This is an antibacterial 
of considerable power, but not harmless enough ; its advantage, 
however, is that it forms with calcium salts insoluble precipitates. 
When a juice preserved with hydrofluoric acid is used for any 
preparation for the open trade, the acid must be removed by 
precipitation with calcium carbonate, calcium fluoride being 
formed, of which only slight traces remain dissolved in the juice. 
Of course after this defluorization the juice is no longer sterile, but 
must be worked up at once. About 25 cc. hydrofluoric acid of 
50 to 55% arc required for 10 gallons, and for precipitation about 
H oz. of calcium carbonate is sufficient; after removing, the em- 
ployment need not be declared. Great care must be taken that 
no juices preserved with hydrofluoric acid are marketed without 
removing it. 

Because of the difficulties arising from the use of chemical 

means, there remains only sterilization of juices. It is remarkable 

that many of the manufacturers do not incline to this, the most 

* In the United States the percentage allowed is 0. 1%. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 143 

natural and least objectionable method, probably by reason of a 
certain dis trustfulness which is due solely to negligent treatment. 
The bacteria are killed at a temperature above 180° F. It is 
necessary, however, to maintain this temperature for at least half 
an hour. The principle of sterilization or pasteurization is the 
heating of the juice to this temperature and keeping it there for 
about 20 minutes to half an hour. Many apparatus are con- 
structed for this purpose, especially for the sterilizal ion of liquids 
in bottles. For juices sometimes glass carboys, demijohns, etc., 
are employed. The sterilization itself is, however, only the first 
step for insuring stability, the most important circumstance being 
the prevention of an infection with new bacteria or yeasts and the 
absolute exclusion of air. Bottles or carboys, which receive the 
still hot sterilized juice must be closed at once with sterile stoppers, 
best also paraffined, and may then be kept for very long periods 
provided the exclusion of air is absolute. A further advantage of 
such heating is the coagulation at the same time of albumin, 
which is separated, whereby the clearing of the juice is better 
effected. On storage the precipitation of the constituents caus- 
ing turbidity is now less difficult. For manufacturing on the 
large scale the employment of many small glass vessels is not 
practical, and therefore the following method of sterilization in 
casks is to be recommended: The casks to be used must be 
cleaned most carefully, and sulphurized immediately before filling. 
They must be provided with a cock for emptying, and they must 
be fully dry outside. The juice is sterilized in usual way by 
heating in a vessel at 180° F., and allowed to stand half an hour 
at this temperature, but the temperature must not exceed this 
degree because otherwise the taste may be impaired. Ae the 
flavor is volatile, and its volatility would be increased by the small 
quantity of alcohol present which is unavoidable, it is advisable, 
while heating, to close the vessel with a cover cooled with water 
so as to condense the vapors formed on heating the juice. In 
this way no flavor is lost, and the juice retains its full value. 
(liter sterilization the hot juice is run into the prepared casks 
which are then closed with a bung bearing a Pasteur stopper. A 
more simple contrivance is a small glass funnel bearing a glass 
stopper. The lower part of the stem bears a glass cock, and is 
fixed in the perforated bung so as to reach inside the cask, but 
not to the surface of the liquid. The casks, however, are filled 



144 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

up as much as possible, only a little room being left over the sur- 
face of the liquid. The part of the funnel above the cock is filled 
with a sterile cotton plug, the hole being closed with the stopper. 
After allowing the filled cask to stand for about a day to cool, it 
must be varnished over with hot liquid paraffin, which closes all 
pores of the cask. In particular the dock for emptying and the 
bung itself must be covered with sufficient paraffin to prevent 
entrance of any air from without. .It is still more to be recom- 
mended to float on the surface of the still hot contents of the cask, 
and before closing with the bung, a thin layer of liquid paraffin, 
say about 100 cc. for a content of about 200 gallons, or somewhat 
more for larger casks; the oil prevents all contact of air with the 
surface of the liquid. Those parts of the cask in contact with 
the layer are paraffined first, and then the cask is set on end and the 
paraffining finished. This method is suited for the largest sizes of 
casks, and if carefully managed, is durable for any length of time. 
Underneath this layer the juice clears itself by precipitation of the 
cloudy constituents. When the juice is to be emptied, it is first 
necessary to open the two cocks of the closure so that the air 
necessary for emptying must pass through the sterile cotton plug 
and thus get into the cask free from bacteria. The clear juice 
is drawn off, and any remainder must be filtered as usual. The 
thin layer of liquid paraffin on the surface is carefully removed, 
and the juice immediately used up because the conditions favor- 
ing its durability no longer exist. If only partly emptied, the 
cocks are closed again, and the remainder may stand for a long 
time in quite the same sterile condition. 

NATURAL FRUIT SYRUPS 

In general 13 parts of sugar are boiled with 7 parts of juice, and 
when dissolved, the syrup is filtered through flannel to remove 
the albumin, which separates as a foam. Finally the product 
must be weighed, and the unavoidable loss of water is to be made 
up by adding enough water to yield 20 parts of syrup. 

The boiled syrup may be filtered through flannel, which suffices 
when the juice employed is clear. 

It is usual to heat the sugar and the juice with constant stirring, 
and only when the sugar is nearly dissolved is the mass brought 
to a boil. It is sufficient if the syrup boils up only once. The 
length of time of boiling should be shortened to avoid inversion. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



145 



The cane sugar is inverted by means of the fruit acid of the juice, 
but mostly at the boiling temperature, and the result of this action 
is the recrystallization of the syrups, because the dextrose formed 
is less soluble and hence more likely to crystallize at a lower tem- 
perature. It is also advisable to cool the syrup after boiling, for 
the same reason. 




Via. 21. Vacuum apparatus suited for fruit syrups, with mechanical stirrer, 

(cooler on the cover of the still, and special cooler after filtration of the hot 
Byrup by atmospheric pressure directly from the still by the vacuum pump, 
installed U pressure pump. Suited also for concentrating fruit juices and 
for the manufacture of jams. 
The most rational method is the boiling of fruit syrups in a 
vacuum. The juice is heated somewhat and mixed with the sugar 
by mechanical stirring, and then boiled up at about 135° F. It 
is only necessary to heat to the temperature of alxtut 160 to 170° F. 
to coagulate the albumin, but this is done without a vacuum. 
The advantage is the operation at a considerably lower temper- 
ature, since a higher temperature impairs the fineness of the flavor. 
Another fact to be observed is that with the vapors of the fruit 
juice a great deal of flavor disappears if the boiling is prolonged too 
much. It is better to boil in a still where the vapors can be re- 
covered as a liquid, which, as an aromatic constituent, may 



146 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

added again to the syrup. Vats too should be closed with a 
cover which should be made to act as a condenser, so that the 
vapors are returned as a liquid to the vat and thus occasion no 
loss of liquid, and, particularly, of flavor. 

CONCENTRATION OF FRUIT JUICES 

The juices contain rather large quantities of water, and only 
small quantities of extractives, and to gain the latter, which alone 
are desirable, it is only necessary to distil off the water, best in a 
vacuum. As is well known, the flavor is much impaired by heat, 
and the more so the longer the juice is heated, but at a tempera- 
ture of say about 113° F., the flavor will not be affected to any 
great extent. However, the volatile flavor will distil off, and 
the greater part will l>e obtained in the first 10% of distillate. 
Therefore it is usual to first collect this 10%, which is reserved, 
and then to distil off as much as is required to afford a concentrated 
juice. In the table, p. 138, giving the content of acids and sugar in 
fruits, there will be found a column giving the concentration to 
which the juice may be brought. As an example, the manufacture 
of concentrated cherry juice will be explained. The possibility of 
concentration is about 6 times. From 100 gallons of juice collect 
10 gallons of first distillate, containing the whole flavor. Distil 
off now about 75 gallons water which are of no value, and reserve 
the residue. Repeat this operation 4 times with 100 gallons each 
time, and collect in all 50 gallons of first aromatic distillate which 
rectify slowly for concentration purposes to 10 gallons only, and 
which will contain the whole flavor of the 500 gallons juice em- 
ployed. On the other hand, we obtain as a residue 5 times about 
15 gallons, = 75 gallons in all. Mix this with the 10 gallons 
flavor. The result will be 85 gallons, that is about the sixth part 
of the juice employed, and the juice will then be concentrated 
about six-fold. This must be filtered, because it is necessary 
that the juice diluted with 5 parts of water affords a quite clear 
solution corresponding physically to the original juice. As the 
filtration is often very difficult, the following method may be 
employed, which permits the raw juice to be used without previous 
clearing. As before, collect 10 gallons of aromatic rectified dis- 
tillate separately, and 75 gallons extract. Cool the latter and 
mix with an equal volume of strong alcohol which will precipitate 
pectin, albumin and also salts not soluble in strong alcohol, but 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

which will not affect the taste. The liquid is allowed to settle, 
and the clear portion filtered off from the residue, introduced 
into the Still, and the alcohol distilled off. The final extractive 
residue in the still is mixed as Ircfore with the concentrated flavor. 
and the result is a clear concentrated juice suited for export; and 
as it is perfectly stable, it will serve for making preparations of 
the fruit juices. 

» NATURAL LEMONADES AND FRESH-FROIT BEVERAGES 
The recognized advantages of natural fruit juices, which may he 
called "fluid fruits," make them suited for preparing refreshing 
drinks. An objection, however, is the low durability of the 
juices, and the fruit syrups alone are not always adapted to 
afford an excellent drink because they vary greatly regarding 
their acidity. To obtain a taste that will be agreeable to every- 
one it is necessary that a certain relationship exists Iwtween the 
proportion of sugar and acid. Tin' cffervesivnl artifii-iiil Icnum- 
ades remain in good condition when on an average the content of 
sugar is about. CO times greater than that of the acid, and then 
only is the flavor freely in evidence. The quantity of acids in 
our fruit syrups is on an average insufficient, and therefore the 
best fruit lemonades are prepared from the juice diluted with 
water and sweetened as desired. 

Although the carbonated true fruit lemonades afford good non- 
alcoholic drinks when prepared in the manner described later, 
yet the fruit juice is very sensitive to the action of bacteria, and 
does not keep well but becomes cloudy in a short time, especially 
in the hot season, and spoils the lemonades. Therefore it is a 
prime requisite to sterilize the lemonades made from fresh fruits. 
The apparatus for sterilization in bottles is quite well known, 
but any method would suit in which the liquid is heated for about 
20 minutes to from 180 to HIO" F. and immediately stoppered. 
The juices employed must also be previously sterilized, and be 
quite clear. 

The quantity of juice varies according to the different acids in 
the various fruits. In the table given later on, the quantity 
in cubic centimeters of juice needed for every 12-oz. bottle is 
delivered by means of a pipette or burette. Each buttle is filled 
with the quantity of juice stated, and as sugar is ^\<n important 
in the manufacture of lemonades, lj oz. on the average of a 00% 



MANUAL FOR THE ] 



! INDUSTRY 






sugar syrup is adiied to every 12-oz. bottle. Finally the bottles 
are filled up with the carbonated water and sterilized as usual. 

Fresh-fruit leverages are similar to the natural fruit syrups, 
containing only sugar and natural fruit juice, but in different pro- 
portions, the acid being present in the proportion of 1 part acid 
to CO parts of sugar on the average. 




Fig. 22. Apparatus for pasteurizing beverages in bottles by m 

These conditions, however, will not suffice to make the prept 
ration durable, and therefore the beverages must also be ste 
in the bottles, and the consumers who use the beverages I 
diluting them with water, must use them soon, at least within a 
few days, and in the meantime must keep them well stoppt 
The advantage is the possibility of having every kind of f 
always at hand. The flavor is protected from being impaire 
when the solution of sugar is made at the common temperature 
without boiling, which latter always injures the flavor in some 
way. The fresh-fruit leverages arc suited for all lemonades 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



149 



in the household, for restaurants and refreshment parlors, for 
bowk and puddings; they have the most pronounced natural 
taste of the fruit, and possess some medicinal value because of 
the fruit acid and nutritive salts they contain. They also afford 
the enjoyment of fresh fruits at periods when such are not at 
hand. The only trouble is the necessity of sterilizing the bottles. 
On Recount of the variation in the content of sugar, every bottle 
should Iwar a lal>el stating the amount of water to be added to 
obtain a fresh lemonade. 

One of the most important troubles is the irregularity of the 
acid content of the juices. The following tables give the average 
acidity of the juices. For the manufacturer it would lie advisable 
to reduce their more or less acid juices to an average, because a 
regulated acidity would give unit results. 



Employment nf Natural Fruit Juices far Natural Lemonades and 
far Freslt-F'rttit Steerages, and the Equivalent Quantities of 
Fresh Fruits in These Preparations 







Nt.nl 1 


moqatlM 


Fw 


■frutt b.ven*-. 


hj£„ 




A*»» 


A U-a 


«»?"* 


lg.No 


, ™iiB l f V * r "* 


.III. 11. Ml 


<*;ik1- "'■ irilll- 


of .ho 
















Eqri*- 








nlwor 






fenOlty 

of jui™. 


o( fruits". 


*** 


W 


*r'",n" 


IE 






' 


■■. -In. 


~~Lh 


l'ii.»- 




i 




1 1 


90 


11 


51 


5) 


1 200 


51 


to* 


0* 


;o 


u 


51 


51 






ABtWM 


i 1 


u 


II 


>) 


H 


i iso 


5( 






M 


It 


SI 


H 




H 


rhitlmij 




It 


II 


51 


51 


1.200 


i 


Cherry, mt, 




IS 


Jl 


V 


S| 














SI 


SI 




7 


Onon 




11 




■i 


tl 




7 




) s 


» 


'I 


51 


SI 


i.aati 


7 






n 


*l 


S| 




1 140 


u 






t 














is 


14 




71 




i in 






is 


it 




n 


i 






l-en-l. 






3 


31 


<H 






PfeMwh 


t a 


u 


11 






l iw 










u 






i i«o 












21 








AmI 


















l.f 


H 




n 


U 


1.220 




istnrt.Tr .... 


U 


30 


u 


51 


51 


1 200 


H 



to be 



(a) Natural Lemonades: The numbers of cubic centimeters are 
be understood to be for a 12-oz. bottle, and the equivalent 






150 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



weight will give the weight of the fruit employed for this bottle. 
Besides the cubic centimeters of juice, every bottle contains l£ oz. 
sugar syrup of 60% sugar content. The bottles are to be filled 
willi carbonated water and then sterilized as usual. 

(6) Fresh-Fruit Beverages: The numbers give the quantity of 
sugar and juice necessary to obtain 1 gallon of the beverage. The 
last column gives the extent to which the beverage should be 
diluted by the consumer. 

THE JUICES OF THE CITRUS FRUITS 

The juice of the citrus fruits contains much citric acid, and bul 
little flavor, because this is not soluble in the juice. A great deal 




Fig. 23. Machine for peeling citrus fruits, in action 

of lemon juice is pressed in the countries where these fruits gro' 
Some also is pressed from imported fruit*. The fruits are 
by simple machines like those used to peel potatoes (see fi| 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



151 



The peels are used to make essences, or in confectionery, for cakes, 
etc. One case of about 200 to 300 lemons yields about 11 lb. of 
peel suited for essence manufacture. 

The juice is obtained not by expressing, as is the case with 
other juices, but by drilling with wooden electrically-driven tops 




rid 27), which earn,' the peeled fruits which have 

tan cut in two. The juice is collected in enameled vats. The 

,-."! for cheap marmalades. The juice is cloudy and 

contain! much Emit flesh, hence it must be passed through 

tch holds back the fibers: it is now called lemon 
DDrt. This is not very stable, but soon ferments, hence it must 




152 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



be worked up with sugar into a syrup, or be preserved in some 
other manner. The liquid is very acid, but it acquires a peculiar 
taste when heated. Sterilization also somewhat affects the pure 
taste, and the same thing happens when lemon juice or must is 
boiled into a syrup. It is hence Ijetter to dissolve the sugar in 
the cold, using about G parts of sugar to 4 parts of juice. Of 




Fig. 26. Hiioil-miicliitics for obi 



course Ibis lemon-must syrup may not be filtered, and when later 
on it is mixed with water to afford a refreshing beverage, the 
latter will always lie cloudy because it still contains fruit fibers. 

Lemon Juice is nothing else but a filtered must, but it is very 
difficult to get a clear and good juice, having due regard to the 
taste. First and foremost, all metals must lie kept from contact 
with the lemon juice, because they would influence the color as well 
Eta (In 1 taste. Then again it often contains bitter substances (fa* 
rived from the lemon peel, and these must be removed. Fre- 
quently too it is dark colored, from long standing, especially when 
exposed to the light. The coloring matters too must lie removed, 
and this is done with freshly burnt charcoal, using about 1% 
well stirred with the liquid, and filtering through paper in a 
day or two with the aid of talcum, or better, infusorial earth or 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BKVKRACKS 



153 



asbestos, and using filters made of silver or of glass. The first 
portion of the filtrate will be cloudy, but soon the liquid passes 
clear. The clear juice should be received in ft dark bottle for it 
beoOBMB rapidly, often while filtering, dark and brownish. Also, 

Itoring, it must always be bottled in dark or amber bottles. 




Flu 27. Mi. Line for obtaining lemon juice \ Iritling syatcm). 

r filtering it must l)e preserved in some way, or worked up 
into syrup, or better, 6 parts of sugar are dissolved by well stir- 
ring and at a low temperature, in 4 parts of the juice. This 
syrup is to be filtered. It is allowable to add to the lemon juice, 
must, or syrup, some genuine flavor made from the peel, for 
example soluble essence of lemon, sufficient to impart a satis- 
factory taste, l>ecause the juice alone has but very little taste. 



154 



MANTAL FOR THE ESSENCE ISDUSTRY 



In the same manner hitter or sweet oranges and tangerines are 
used for Juice. Lime juice from West Indian limes has a peculia 
harsh taste, and is used mostly for ship-board use as a remedy foi 
scurvy. 

FRUIT WINES 

Fermented fruit juices are greatly similar to wines, which t 
also fermented grape juices. Unfcrmented fruit juices, sterilize* 
must not be called " non-alcoholic wine" or "fruit wine," for it a 
a characteristic of wines and beverages similar to wine that thei 
are the product of fermentation. Also fruit juices, even thot 
from grapes included, which have been fermented and their aloo- 
hol then distilled off, must not be labeled "non-alcoholic wine" 
but must bear a declaration stating the character of their manu- 
facture. 

The fruit wines are classed among the alcohol beverages, and 
only their originating from the juice of fruits permits (hem to 
be described here briefly. The fruit juices all contain too little 
sugar naturally to yield a sufficient content of alcohol, and other- 
wise they are too acid. The manufacture of fruit wines is similar 
to that of wines. The fresh grapes are pressed, and the must i 
fermented. Much care is to be taken in the treatment durini 
the fermentation, and in completing of (he wines and their stor- 
age. The composition of grape juice adapts the latter to a 
good beverages after fermentation, but regarding fruit juices in 
general, these must be prepared otherwise, as they contain i 
most cases too much acid and too little sugar. The requisite 
for a good fruit wine are, that it contain about 6\ pro mille acid 
and an average of 81% by volume of alcohol. Therefore the ma- 
must be brought up (o a content of 14i to 15% of sugar, and the 
acid must be reduced by adding water to about 6£ pro mille. 

For wines with a higher content of alcohol, as dessert wines, the 
content of sugar is correspondingly increased so as to yield a 
higher content of alcohol. To render uniform the fruit wines, so 
far as their content of alcohol and acid is concerned, the addition 
of sugar and water is necessary, as given in the formulas later on. 

The fruits are employed when fully ripe, and are pressed and 
■fermented after the addition of sugar and water. Only rarely 
are the fruits themselves fermented, but usually only the juice 
It is advisable to employ pure cultivated yeast, which con- 
Hie taste in certain directions, hastens the fermentation, and i 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 155 

remedy for certain wine maladies. The most suitable pure 
yeasts are "Steinberger Cabinet." for light-colored fruit wines; 
for dessert wines "Laureiro;" and for dark red wines "Bordeaux." 
In some cases the wines are very poor in tannic acid, which sup- 
ports the fermentation, and it is usual to increase the tannic acid 
by the addition of al>out J oz. per gallon. 

The fermentation of the juice is at first turbulent, but becomes 
calmer by and by, and after some months the must is turned, and 
filled into new casks, where an after-fermentation takes place, 
and about a year after the fruits were harvested, the wine is 
complete. 

The wine gains in clearness and bouquet when stored for some 
time. In some cases, particularly where the juices are very low 
in acidity, the nutritive materials present are not sufficient for the 
yeast. In such cases it is advisable to add \ to £ oz. of ammonium 
carlxmate to each gallon of must, sufficient to induce fermenta- 
tion. 

The tabic on page lofi shows how much water is required to reduce 
the acidity of 10 gallons of original fruit juice to an average acid- 
ity, and also the quantity of sugar which is added to this dilution 
for certain results, varying according to the alcoholic strength. 
The ordinary fruit wines, also called household beverages, have 
an alcoholic strength of o0° underproof; light table wines, 48° 
underproof; stronger table wines, completely fermented, 4.5° 
underproof; and so-called dessert wines, 41° underproof, which 
is the limit of possibility of natural content of alcohol from fer- 
mentation. The quality of these depends upon the addition of 
sugar. 

When fruit wines are distilled to regiiin their alcohol the residue 
will lie alcohol-free. This product must be declared as "non- 
alcoholic fruit wine, freed from alcohol." This manufacture is 
not limited only to the distilling off of the alcohol, which affords 
a distillate of about one-third of the total amount of wine, but 
this distillate must be replaced by sugar solution, because without 
alcohol the taste of the wine^ would be flat, and not full enough. 
Therefore they must receive an addition of sugar, best fruit sugar 
or true grape sugar obtained by evaporation from grape juice. 
They must be sterilized, of course, and are in no sense better than 
genuine fruit juices, which should be preferred because of their 
more natural taste. 



156 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Composition of Fruit Wines 
10 gallons of natural fruit juice of average content of sugar 
and fruit acid afford: 



Bil!*rr, 

B!m-kl-«ny 

Currant*, hlnrlt 

CooMjliarry 
Muluwry 

Sirs* berry 

on. ■ ma •!■•"• 


Gal. 

so 
to 

a 






















— — 


- 






iples 
also 

with 



Rhubarb wine is manufactured from the juice of green rhulmrl 
Stems, which are twiled with an equal part of water; for every 
gallon add 2-J lb. sugar, and then ferment like fruit wines. 

In making apple wine it is usual to employ besides sour apples 
also swi'i'l [wars, which contain also tannic acid. Sorbberries 
are added to apple wines to make them more astringent. 

Fruit champagnes are nothing else but genuine fruit wines wii 
a considerable content of alcohol, but sweeter and impregnated 
with carbonic acid. 

Honey-wine, called mead, is obtained by the fermentation of 
genuine honey with the addition of suitable spices as coriander. 
cardamom, nutmeg, cloves, etc., and more rarely with hops 
when a bitter and aromatic taste is desired. To make it, 32 lb. 
of honey, boiled with 10 gallons water, are fermented after cool- 
ing and adding pure yeast. Any added spices are boiled with the 
hooey as before, and the loss of water is replaced. The meth will 




NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



Ix; completely fermented after a few months, and after clearing is 
filled into bottles for the trade. 

Fruit-honey wines (fruit-meads) obtained by fermentation of 
genuine fruit juices with honey are to be recommended. To 
obtain the desired astringent taste in some kinds, tannic acid 
is added. Sometimes it is advisable to add raisins to the mash; 
and also, if not acid enough, some tartaric acid may l>e added. 
The manufacture is as follows: The honey is boiled with the 
water, and then the tannic and tartaric acid are added. I'f any 
raisins or carobs are to be used, these are boiled at the same 
lime. Replace any loss of water by boiling, and after cooling 
Add tbe fruit juice and pure yeast, allow to ferment for a few 
months, clear, then bottle. The following table shows the com- 
position of these wines: 



HONEY- 


1MJIT 


WINES 


(FRUIT-MEADS) 






„.„, 


Wiur. 


"SB* 


Tannin. 


Fruil- 


Rudna. 


Curoba. 


•Wb 


Lb. 
« 


GuL 

Ji 
li 
M 

3 
Si 
11 
li 

H 


Oa. 

; 
1 

li 

1 

1 


Ctt. 

1 
....... 

1 

I 


Gml. 

N 

n 

n 
n 

a 
"ii" 


Lb. 
a 

s 


Oi. 
2 


Btackbanj 
CnnbtCTY 

Pwh 













JUICES FROM DRIED FRUITS 

With the drying of fruits the water, which serves for keeping in 
solution the soluble substances of the fruits, parlially disappears, 
and carries will] it considerable of the flavor, while on the other 
hand the flavor is altered by the heat. When dried fruits are 
maoemted again with water, the soluble substances enter into 
solution, but the taste differs from that of fresh fruits. The new 
product i- not at all the same as a fresh-fruit juice, and cannot 
of course liear the designation "fruit juice." If any beverages 
are manufactured from dried fruits, as "Pomril," the beverages 
may bear any fancy name, but no intimation that they are manu- 
factured from fresh fruits. 



d 



158 



MANUAL FDR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



THE MANUFACTURE OF JAMS (MARMALADES) AND JELLIES 

The manufacture of fruit preserves, such as jams and jellies, is 
often united with the manufacture of fruit juices, as the residues 
from the latter may l>e utilized. 




Fit;. 2S. Modern vacuum apparatus fur jam manufacture, with uir pump. 

The basis of jams is fresh or dried fruit., and for jellies true fruit 
juices. Both are products with a considerable content of sugar. 
or dextrose as a substitute to make the products cheaper for the 
poorer trade. As a rule, it is to lie understood that 45% of the 
total weight shall consist of fruits, wilh the exception only of 
very sour fruits like lemons and oranges. 

Because of the high content of pectase, apples arc best suited 
for the desirable consistency of jams, and therefore apple pulp 
is most used for mixed jams. Apple pulp must be declared if 
any is added to a jam labeled with a fruit name. Only J.V, pj 
the total fruits may \k substituted by apple pulp. When nun 





NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 159 

is used, the only designation allowed id "mixed fruits." If dried 
fruits are employed, oliiy 25% of the pulp is allowed us a substitute 
for the total fruits. Husks of every kind, and by-products, must 
not be employed in jams designated by the names of fruits, but 
are allowed in mixed jams up to the amount of 25% of total 
fruits, but with a declaration only. If more than 25% are em- 
ployed the jams must be labeled "artificial." Instead of sugar, 
dextrose or glucose syrup is often added. The content is to be 
declared. According to the German law 2.5% of glucose is to be 
declared as "with glucose." More than 25% must be declared 
as "'more than 25% glucose." Any addition of gelatinous matters, 
as agar-agar, and colors also, must be stated. The wasiied 
fruits are boiled with some water and passed through a neve by 
which the stems, kernels and stones are removed. The pulp is 
then mixed with sugar or glucose, and boiled in a vacuum to the 
desired consistency. It is forbidden to add any flavor to jams 
which bear the names of fruits unless they are declared as "arti- 
ficial." Only jams from lemons or oranges may receive an addi- 
tion of flavor of fresh peel essences. 

The jellies are manufactured from fresh fruits, which, if neces- 
sary, are cut small and boiled with water. When soft enough, 
place them on a sieve and allow the juice to drain off; then filter 
if necessary, add sugar to the extent of half of the weight of the 
juice and boil to the right consistency. The test for proper jelly 
consistency is when it does not disintegrate in cold water. If 
boiled beyond this test the mass "burns" and loses its ability to 
gelatinize. Glucose is allowed if declared, and so also coloring 
matters and gelatinizing substances. When designated by the 
name of any fruit, only 25% of the total fruit may be substituted 
by another fruit without declaration. 

The favorite pulps are apple pulp, pear pulp, or mixed fruit 
pulp, when apple and pears are employed together, even though 
apple pulp may contain, as allowed, 20% of pear pulp. Sugar 
beets are also adapted for affording a pulp for cheap grades, but 
no addition of any glucose is allowed. Every jelly containing 
glucose or beet pulp must be declared as "mixed," and when 
containing still other substances, as "artificial." 

Regarding jellies and jams it is forbidden to employ fruits or 
parts of fruits which are leached out or distilled, or the residues 
of these processes. 



160 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

For artificial jams fruit flavors are used, but Artificial flavors, 
like fruit ethers, should be avoided. The pulps for jams can be 
stored in sterilized form, and boiled for jams when wanted. 

The following table shows the constituents of some jams made 
from fruit pulps. According to the English taste the fruits are 
sieved less thoroughly. For some jams, as, for instance, orange, 
the peels are also partly used, being cut in strips, boiled till soft 
and mixed into the complete jam. 

Composition of Some Jams 

The constituents are to be boiled together to the usual consist- 
ency. (Apple pulp is used because of its ability to gelatinize 
more promptly.) 

Apple Jam: 2 parts apple pulp and 1 part sugar. 

Bilberry, Cranberry and Plum Jam: 3 parts plum pulp and 2 
parts sugar. 

Cherry, Currant,, Hip, Peach and Strawberry Jams: 2 parts of 
the fruit pulp, 1 part apple pulp and 3 parts sugar. 

Apricot Jam: 3 parts apricot pulp, 1 part apple pulp and 4 
parts sugar. 

Agriot Jam: 2 parts agriot pulp, 1 part currant pulp, 1 part 
apple pulp and 4 parts sugar. 

Raspberry Jam: 2 parts raspberry pulp, 1 part currant pulp, 
1 part apple pulp and 4 parts sugar. 

m. ESSENCES FOR LEMONADES AND NON-ALCOHOLIC 

BEVERAGES 

The Nature of the Fruit Flavor, and Its Transfer to Essences 

The fruit flavor is a constituent of the ripe fruit, in which it is 
formed by the action of sunlight. It is hence more particularly 
elaborated in colored fruits, and in the more highly colored por- 
tions of fruits, in consequence of which the more richly colored 
fruit is usually the more fragrant. Only in the citrus fruits is 
the flavor so highly developed that it forms a volatile oil which 
may be obtained by expression. Otherwise, the flavoring sub- 
stance is present in only very small quantities, it occurring in the 
rind of the fruit, while only a slight quantity is found in the fruit 
juice, because the water of the fruit juice is but a poor solvent for 
it. At any rate, it is only the most volatile portions of the flavor- 
ing agents that impart aroma to the fruit juice, but the major 
part remains in the fruit pulp or residues, and hence these latter 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



161 



constitute the chief sources for the manufacture of essences. The 
fruit flavor is, moreover, rather sensitive to heat, and particularly 
in the presence of albuminous matter, which is present in every 
fruit, it develops, when heated above 170° F., the so-called " boiled" 
or "baked" fruit taste, to avoid which distillation in vacuo is 
practiced. 




Fio. 29. Modern 



apparatus for eaaence manufacture. 



It is impossible to isolate the fruit flavor as such, as is done with 
volatile oils, excepting in the case of the citrus fruits, but it may 
be transferred by distillation with alcohol; and the less heat re- 
quired for this, the finer and more natural will be the flavor solu- 
tion obtained. Once in solution it is easily carried over by the 
alcohol vapors, and imparts to the condensate its volatile, fruity 
laste, and of course extractive flavoring substances are precipitated. 
In those cases where no vacuum apparatus is at hand, such methods 
must be resorted to in the case of particularly delicate flavors, 
such as strawberries, bananas, pineapple, peaches and apricots, 
as will bring the total flavor, including that of the extractive 
substances, into solution by means of maceration, whereby, un- 
fortunately however, the concentration of the resulting essence 
is very greatly reduced. 






162 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

It is the aim, in essence making, that, although the use of alco- 
hol for utilizing the flavor cannot be dispensed with, yet the quan- 
tity should be limited to a minimum, not only Iwcause alcohol as 
such is not desired in beverages, but also beeau.se it is costly. Hence 
it is the object of the manufacturer to make the essences as con- 
centrated aa possible. In other words, it is the object to transfer 
the flavor from the greatest possible quantity of fruit to the 
smallest feasible quantity of alcohol, and this is possible by dis- 
tillation only, in that the distillate from one batch of fruit may be 
used for the treatment of another batch; and in fact this process 
may be repeated as often as desired, a process which is entirely 
excluded when maceration is resorted to Iwcause the alcohol 
strength would be too greatly reduced by the moisture present 
in the fruit. 

Finally it may be mentioned that the fruit flavor may also be 
isolated, after it has first been brought into solution, whether as 
extract or distillate, or even as fruit juice, by shaking out the 
solution with a solvent in which the liquid first used is insoluble, 
for instance petroleum ether, chloroform, etc. If now, using 
proper precautions, the new solvent used for shaking out is dis- 
tilled off, there remains in an exceedingly concentrated form the 
flavoring, which is more usually than properly designated as 
"aroma oil," or "flavor oil." 

The purpose of all these methods of transferring the flavor to 
a. solvent, from which all fruit essences are made, is to later impart 
the fruit taste to beverages, and the advantage of this as corn- 
pared with the natural fruit juice manufacture is the avoidance 
of the inconveniences attending the latter. Fruit juices all con- 
tain fermentable constituents, and in the dilutions as used in 
lemonades are not stable unless they have been sterilized by proc- 
esses that are inconvenient to employ. Then again it is maintained 
that the carbon dioxide exerts a destructive action on the coloring 
matters, but the most important fact is that the pleasant taste 
of lemonades depends upon a correct relationship between the 
quantities of acid and sugar. Now the sugar content is practically 
constant, because the sweetness of a lemonade is always brought 
to a certain point by the addition of sugar, so that the lemonade 
will contain about 6 to 8% sugar. The acid content of the fruit 
juices, however, varies greatly; the different kinds differ not only 
from each other, but members of the same kind differ among 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 163 

themselves. For commercial purposes, however, it is desirable 
that the manufacturer should market products of uniform quality, 
and this is effected by the manufacture of artificial effervescent 
lemonades, 

Effervescent lemonades are not intended to be duplicates of 
the natural lemonades, but are individual commercial products 
of greater uniformity than the natural lemonades, not only with 
reference to the acid content, but also as regards flavor. They 
are to a certain extent the derivative products of the fruit-juice 
lemonades. The most important factor of the fruit juice is the 
fruit acid, and this, in the effervescent lemonades, is employed 
in unobjectionable form, since citric and tartaric acids are natural 
products obtained from fruit juices only by a chemical process. 
The fruit flavor, in the form present in the fruit, is also obtained 
from fruit by unobjectionable methods, and the only purely arti- 
ficial things are the coloring and the foam producer, and these 
constituents enter into the composition of every effervescent 
lemonade, because the sugar which must be used is present in the 
proportions in which it must be added to natural lemonades. 



" 



ARTIFICIAL FRUIT FLAVORS, FORTIFYING AND FIXING 

The fruit flavor is a very sensitive substance, and in the high 
dilutions in which it occurs in lemonades it is not easily to be 
tasted, because of its volatility, and because the impression it 
makes on the tongue rapidly disappears. In order to render the 
taste more permanent, the natural fruit flavor is fortified many 
fold with so-called "fixers." The most important reason for their 
use is based upon the fact that, because of their lower volatility, 
less volatile substances, such as high-l>oiling esters, artificial 
odorants like vanillin and cumarin, or volatile oils, when used in 
conjunction with the fruit flavor, keep the fruit flavor longer in 
contact with the taste-cells of the tongue. The purpose of these 
fixers is in nowise to increase the fruit flavor or even to imitate it, 
but to utilize it more advantageously. All fortifiers are artificial 
in character; they consist of esters, volatile oils and artificial 
odorants, and they are used to secure a certain degree of uni- 
formity in the taste of the fruit, to exclude any by-taste, and to 
round out the taste and impart to it a certain type, Their use 
is fully justified so long as their employment is not carried to 



164 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



excess and the basic character of the flavor is not impaired 
imitated. 

The artificial fruit flavors are used only for the purpose of ii 
latin g the flavor and excluding the natural content. They 
capable of imparting only a similarity of flavor, and consist chiel 
of the so-called fruit ethers, the employment of which, howc 
meets with but Utile public approval; and the saving effected 
by using such imitations is not at all worth while, apart from the 
fact that the ethers are not considered to be entirely unobjection- 
able in their effect on the health. In the course of time the public 
has come to look with disfavor on the artificial fruit flavors form 
erly employed, and in the formulas which follow no attention 
be paid to such imitations. 

COMPOSITION OF EFFERVESCENT LEMONADES 

Sugar is the basis of all lemonade-like beverages, and it is em 
ployed in the form of a 60% syrup; in fact it was customary, after 
adding to the syrup flavoring, acid and coloring, to designate i 
as so-called lemonade syrup, of which 1J oz. was used for a 12-oi 
bottle. 

So far as the acid is concerned, the cheapest to use is tartaric 
acid, which is obtained from the tartar separating during the s 
coholic fermentation of grapes. Of equal value is citric aci 
obtained from the natural juice of lemons. Both of these a 
equivalent so far as their acid value is concerned. Less frequently 
employed is lactic acid; and of the inorganic acids only phosphor 
acid is to be considered, although beverages made with this a 
stated to have poor keeping properties. The acid content of th< 
various effervescent lemonades varies but little, and amounts 01 
the average to 1% of the lemonade syrup. About 1 lb. of citric o 
tartaric acid is employed with 1001b. lemonade syrup; theequiva 
lent quantity of lactic acid is 1 j lb., and of phosphoric acid (75%, 
1 lb. With the more strongly acid fruits, such as lemons am 
apples, half again as much acid is employed, as this better repr* 
sents the character of the fruits. 

The coloring of the effervescent lemonades follows in most case 
the colors of the respective fruits, the flavors of which are to b. 
used, and is intended to be attractive to the eye. So far as the 
aniline dyes are permissible to be used, they are the most satis- 
factory and brilliant, as the vegetable colors are very unstable. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 165 

The last constituent to be mentioned, apart from the essences, 
is the foam producer. This consists of any form of solution of 
saponin, found as a glucoside in various plants. This is con- 
sidered by many as not free from objection from the hygienic 
standpoint, and in many countries its use is forbidden. Other 
glucosides, such as glyeyrrhizin from licorice root, are not satis- 
factory, although otherwise unobjectionable, as foam producers. 
The purpose of the foam producer consists in that, although used 
in high dilution, it causes a considerable foaming of the beverage or 
lemonade, and affords a dense "head" persisting for some time, 
and preventing the too rapid escape of carbon dioxide. Further- 
more, its effect on the eye has a certain esthetic value which is 
utilized, for instance, in foaming beere. 

STANDARD ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 
It is the aim in manufacturing to simplify the employment of 
the various essences so that the flavoring value of all is brought to 
a certain normality. As standard we designate a quality of 
which 1 part by weight suffices to flavor 100 parts by weight of 
lemonade syrup. This of course does not hinder the marketing, 
for purposes of convenience, of strong or weaker concentrations; 
and by the term the extent of vtiliiability is understood the number 
of parte by weight required to flavor a lemonade syrup, such parts 
Ijeing most conveniently stated in terms of the number of ounces 
required for 1 gallon. Hence the normal proportion 1 : 100 signi- 
fies that 2 oz. per gallon are required to flavor 1 gallon of syrup 
containing about 57% sugar. Thereby it is assumed that a 
syrup containing 60% sugar is used as a base, of which 95 parts 
by weight are mixed with 5 parts of the so-called lemonade extract, 
which contains besides the essence, acid, coloring, and perhaps 
also foam producer. 

This lemonade extract is for the purpose of uniformity, cal- 
culated for a yield of 5 : 100, corresponding to the employment 
of 10 oz. of the finished lemonade syrup, i.e., 10 oz. of the extract 
are mixed with sufficient sugar syrup to measure 1 gallon. The 
acid is used iu solution, this being made from equal parts of citric 
(or tartaric) acid and boiling water. When cold, the solution is 
filtered. The usual proportion for most beverages requires an 
acid content of 1 : 100, calculated on the weight of the syrup, and 
for acid products, as lemon and apple, \\ : 100; hence for a gallon 






166 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

of lemonade syrup there are required 2 to 3 oz., or 4 to 6 ok., 
respectively, of the acid solution. The lemonade extract contains 
at the same time the dissolved coloring matter, and it is most 
advantageous to use a solution of 5 parts of the dry aniline dye 
in 100 parts water, i.e., a 5% solution. Vegetable colors, having 
less coloring power, are prepared in more concentrated solution. 
Such coloring solution is used in the proportion of £ part to 100 
parts of syrup. Hence 1 oz. of the solution will be required to 
color 1 gallon of syrup. If a foam producer is also employed, 
a foam extract is used which is also made 1 : 100, and of which 
1 oz. is required for 1 gallon of syrup. From the foregoing, hence, 
the extract will have the following composition: 

Normal Essence, 1 : 100 2 lb. 

Acid Solution, 1:1 4 " 

(or 6 lb. for strongly acid beverages) 

Coloring Solution, 5%, as aniline dye 1 " 

(or more if a vegetable color is used) 

Foam Producer 1 " 

This affords 8 lb. of an extract of not too acid character, and 
which is made up to 10 lb. by adding 2 lb. distilled water, corre- 
sponding to a utilizability of 5 : 100. With strongly acid bever- 
ages, however, 2 lb. more acid solution have to be added, hence 
here the resulting yield, without the addition of the water, 
again 10 lb. The range of 2 lb. also allows the possibility of a 
ing more acid at will, or, if desired, of increasing the quantity of 
essence to be added in cases where weaker essences are used. In 
colorless lemonades and in such where no foam producer is used, 
the corresiMjnding additions are naturally omitted, and the short- 
age is then made up with distilled water instead, so that in every 
case the extract will have a uniform utilizability of 5 : 100, 
quiring the addition of 10 oz. to the gallon of syrup. 

The syrup usually requires 7 time3 its volume of water for 
lemonades, corresponding to the use of 1-J- oz. for a 12-oz. bottle. 
The quantity of syrup is usually measured by mechanical means 
into the bottle, and then the latter is filled with carbonated water; 
the lemonade is then ready for consumption. 

TURBIDITY OF EFFERVESCENT LEMONADES 
Assuming that all the ingredients — the essence, acid and coloi 
ing solutions, and the foam producer — are perfectly clear, 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 167 

also that the water used is perfectly pure, no turbidity is possible; 
and if it occurs, it must be ascribed to some carelessness in the 
manufacture. When, in spite of all precautions, a turbidity is 
now and then observed, this can be ascribed to the essence only 
when the latter has been carelessly made. An important cause 
of turbidity is due to mold development, and this is due to the 
water employed not having been sterile, hence the greatest care 
must be directed to the quality of the water; and for all cases 
distilled water is to be preferred. Another frequent cause of 
turbidity is due to the rinsing water; by allowing emptied lemon- 
ade bottles to stand around infection very easily occurs, and the 
bacteria are distributed through the rinsing water, and where the 
latter is not sufficiently renewed, the bacteria reach the bottles 
and later on develop in the lemonade. Only in rare instances is 
there found a peculiar mold formation in which, with continued 
development, the cells take up the dye, and carry the latter to 
the bottom of the bottle as a colored precipitate. Still more rare 
is the occurrence of the so-called mucous mold, which causes 
the contents of the bottle to become gelatinous in character. All 
these untoward occurrences are, however, due solely to insufficient 
and careless rinsing. They are never due to the essences or ex- 
tracts, as the alcohol content of the essences is so high that bacteria 
caiuiot live in them, while the acid content of the extracts is too 
great to allow the development of bacteria in them. 

FOAM PRODUCERS 

The object and pur[)ose of these have already been discussed. 
There only remains to give the methods of making them. The 
foam producers are all made from saponin, obtained from soap 
bark, soap root and soap nuts. There are a number of kinds of 
saponins, of which some, e.g., the so-called sapo toxin, are toxic. 
Nevertheless it may be stated that in the very small quantities 
in which saponin is used there can be no real danger to health. 
On the average foam extracts all contain 10% saponin, hence a 
gallon of lemonade syrup (=8 gallons of finished lemonade) 
contains only y<r 08. saponin, = 0.008%. 

The saponin is obtained by exhausting the above-mentioned raw 
materials with water. The albuminoids in the solution are then 
precipitated by means of formaldehyde, and 1 
is evaporated to dryness in a vacuum. The resulting p 



the solution are then 
nd the clear solution 
resulting product is a 



the 
Sees 

ated 
-rery 
rify 
1% 

n» 

:3 



168 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

very hygroscopic powder which is strongly sternutatory, and 
which must be kept in well-stoppered bottles, as otherwise it 
conglutinates to form difficultly soluble lumps. The simplest 
foam extract consists of a solution of 1 part saponin in 9 parts hot 
water, which is filtered if necessary, and rendered stable by the 
addition of 1% sodium benzoate. Of this solution 1 oz. suffice 
for a gallon of lemonade syrup. 

Foam Extract from Soap Root 

The white Levantine soap root is comminuted, and percolated 
with cold water. The constituents of the soap root are very 
prone to undergo fermentation, which renders it difficult to clarify 
the liquid extract. This inconvenience is avoided by adding 1% 
of 25% formic acid to the water to be used for percolating. The 
percolation is best carried out in a percolation vat, 40 gallons c 
water acidulated with the formic acid being poured over 50 lb. o 
the root. After allowing to stand for 3 days, 20 gallons of per- 
colate arc collected; a further 20 gallons of formic acid water are 
then poured over the material, and another 20 gallons of percolate 
collected in a separate vessel. These 20 gallons are employed 
for a new percolation, the liquid being poured over 50 lb. of soap 
root, followed by 20 gallons of water, the whole allowed to stand 
for 3 days, and 20 gallons of finished foam extract again collected, 
after which the process is related as before. The percolate is 
then heated to boiling in an open kettle whereby the albuminoids 
are for the most part coagulated. The contents are then allowed 
to cool in a stone jar, and filtered. If necessary, the completed 
extract may be preserved by adding 10 volumes of alcohol, unless 
it is preferred to add 1% sodium benzoate. 

A purified form of this foam extract is obtained on evaporating 
the above obtained product to one-tenth its volume, whereby an 
almost viscid extract is obtained, which is then mixed with three 
times its volume of strong alcohol. This precipitates the useless 
extractive matters, plant salts, albumin and pectin. A volume 
of water equal to that of the alcohol used is then added to the 
filtrate from the alcoholic liquid, and the alcohol is recovered by 
distillation; this alcohol, when rectified, may be used over again 
for the like purpose. The residual liquid is then made up to the 
original volume by adding distilled water, and preserved. Such 
extracts are also used in the proportion of 1 oz. to 1 gallon of syrup. 



NOX-ALCOHOUC BEVERAGES 169 

In similar manner, a foam extract may be made from soap bark. 
The recently recommended soap nuts are considerably richer in 
saponin, and an extract may be made from them in the same way 
as from soap root, using, however, only 25 lb. of soap nuts instead 
of 50 lb., in order to make 20 gallons of foam extract. Soap nuts 
have not come into common use because they contain a bitter 
substance which it is difficult to remove, and which impairs the 
taste of the lemonades. 

The advantage of using an alcohol-purified foam extract resides 
in the fact that the foam it produces has smaller bubbles, and 
hence persists longer on the liquid. 

Saponinless Foam Extract from Lic/rio: Rod 

For making this, licorice root is used; it is jx-rcolated just like 
soap root, and the percolate is treated exactly like the alcohol- 
purified extract above described. The utilizability of this extract 
is low, and hence twice as much is required, i.e.. 2 oz. per gallon. 
Better results would be obtained with a larger quantity, but the 
licorice taste would be too much in evidence. In addition it may 
also be mentioned that the glycyrrhizin, to which the foam pro- 
duction is due, is incompatible with acids, hence pure glycyrrhizin 
can scarcely be used, because it is marketed only as the ammonium 
salt, and this is decomposed by acids with the precipitation of the 
glycyrrhizin. 

GENERAL METHODS OF MANUFACTURING FRUIT ESSENCES 

1. Vacuum Distillation 

The advantage of vacuum distillation resides in the fact that 
the fineness of the flavor is impaired by the heat, which, using 
the open distillation with alcohol, lies not far from the boiling- 
point of water. When operating with reduced pressure, the 
greater part of the operation, namely the extraction and distilla- 
tion of the major portion, is carried on at a temperature between 
95 and 100° F., and only with a decrease in the alcoholic content 
does the temperature rise to a maximum of 135° F. The "boiled " 
taste, which is partly due to the albumin content of the fruit, and 
also the "kettle" taste, which usually sets in firet at 17(fF., are 
thus entirely avoided. A further advantage lies in the more 
complete utilization of the material, because the various operation 



170 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

are carried out in the kettle from which the outer air is excluded 
whereby loss of alcohol by evaporation, as also of flavoring, are 
largely avoided. 

The work comprises an extraction, the object of which is the 
solution of the flavoring constituents in the plant cells, and a dis- 
tillation, whereby the dissolved flavoring is carried over in the 
distillate. Alcohol serves as a medium in all cases; and it is the 
purpose to exhaust the largest possible quantity of fruit with 
the smallest feasible quantity of alcohol. The most suitable appa- 
ratus for the manufacture of fruit essences is provided with a con- 
denser. It consists of a lower portion, higher than wide, provided 
with the usual means of steam heating; the upper part is closed 
by a cover provided with a condenser, which, for convenience 
of emptying and charging, can be raised. For rinds and volum- 
inous material, a sieve is fixed one-third the distance from the bot- 
tom of the kettle. For soft fruit, as raspberries, as well as for 
fruit residues, the sieve is not required. By means of a window, 
the . processes within the apparatus may be watched, while a 
thermometer and barometer show the existing temperature and 
pressure. The work is carried on at a pressure of about 680 to 
700 mm., obtained by means of an air pump. The cover-con- 
denser is so arranged that a current of cold water constantly flows 
through it and condenses the vapors so that the condensate falls 
back upon the material and does not escape into the main con- 
denser, the extraction being based upon this principle. The 
kettle is connected with a capacious main condenser, the exit tube 
of which is closed by a three-way cock. One exit leads directly 
into the open, so that the apparatus may also be operated as an 
ordinary still, for which purpose it is used in the manufacture 
of fruit-rind flavors for removing the terpenes in the last stage of 
the work. In this event the contents of the condensed distillate 
empty into a Florence flask, in which the terpenes collect, while 
the balance of the contents flows back into the apparatus through 
a siphon, which, of course, cannot take place in a vacuum. The 
three-way cock is also connected with a double receiver. The 
latter is divided into two unequal chambers by a false bottom, 
each chamber being provided with a graduated glass window in 
order to observe the contents at all times. Both chambers .are 
connected by a cock, so that the distillate in the upper chamber 
may be allowed to run into the lower, hence the latter may, to a 




NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



certain extent, be regarded as a reservoir. Each chamber is in- 
dividually connected with the air pump, and may be shut off by 
itself; in addition, each chamber is provided with an air cock, and 




A. The complete bull. 
(o) Stirring mechanism. 
(6) Cock for emptying. 

(c) Direct and indirect steam I 

] at ion. 

(d) Condenser cover. 

(e) Tube for carrying vapors. 
(/) Distillate return. 



Mill to 
3. The c 

(o) Main condenser. 

(A) Supplementary condenser. 

(t) Return tube with Florence 

flask, 
(ft) Double receiver connected with 

the pump. 



the lower one has also a cock for emptying. When a proper 
quantity of distillate has collected in the lower chamber, it may 
be shut off from the upper, and emptied, while the distillate con- 
tinues to collect in the upper chamber. The distillation may 



172 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

hence be interrupted at will and the contents drawn off; and 
afterward, after again effecting a vacuum, connected up, thus 
rendering possible a continuous operation. The charging of the 
apparatus with fruit is effected by lifting the cover, and the empty- 
ing of the mushy contents is accomplished by means of a large 
cock; voluminous material is taken out through the charging 
opening. If desired, the apparatus may be made to tilt, and it 
may be provided with a stirrer. In the following operations the 
kettle should have a capacity of alx>ut 60 gallons. The speed of 
the distillation in such case should bo about 10 gallons per hour. 
The regular charge of fruit material should be about 300 lb. in 
the case of mashed fruit; of lemon or orange peel, which are to be 
placed on the sieve, only 200 lb. should constitute a charge, and 
these are the quantities which are to be used in the general opera- 
tions to be described. A further general rule is that for evcry 
such charge 2o gallons of proof spirit are to be used. 

The Extraction 
After the apparatus has been charged with the fruit, a vacuum 
is effected, and 25 gallons of proof spirit are drawn in. Heat is 
now applied to incipient boiling, while plenty of water is allowed 
to flow through the cover condenser. This requires a temperature 
of from 90 to 100° F. The vapors arising are condensed on the 
upper surface, and the liquid drops back on the material. By 
means of this continuous cycle, the flavor is always acted upon by 
the same quantity of alcohol, and brought into solution, whereby 
as little as possible of the distillate should be allowed to reach the 
main condenser. For this operation about one hour is required. 
Then the cover condenser is shut off from operation, so that the 
distillate may reach unhindered the main condenser and collect 
in the receivers. In cases where the vapors, through some acci- 
dent, or careless overheating, have not been absolutely condensed, 
loss may be guarded against by interposing a supplementary con- 
denser between the receiver and the air pump, whereby all vapors 
are condensed before they can reach the air pump. 

The Distillation 

This is effected without using the cover condenser, and can 

proceed smoothly so long as the cooling is I borough. On the 

average 10 gallons of distillate are obtained per hour. The object 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 173 

of the distillation is to completely regain the alcohol, and with it all 
the flavoring that passes over. As, however, the distillate is to 
term also for the next batch of fruit, only as much distillate must 
he reserved as the quantity of liquid originally used, namely, 25 
gallons. Of course it is understood that, in order to have enough 
liquid in the kettle, the liquid distilled off must be replaced by 
water, which is drawn in during the operation in such a manner 
that every hour, after 10 gallons distillate have been collected, 
10 gallons of water are introduced. The distillation is checked 
after 25 gallons of distillate have been collected in this manner. 
In like manner a further 10 gallons is distilled off after the ap- 
propriate quantity of water has been added, this distillate being 
intended to carry over any residual alcohol or flavoring; the dis- 
tillation is then at an end. 

Concentration 

It is now required to strengthen the flavor so obtained, and for 
this purpose the distillate from the first operation is used as the 
starting material for the extraction of a new batch of fruit. The 
apparatus, previously emptied, is hence charged with another 
like quantity of fruit or rinds, and the 25 gallons of main distillate 
are added. The extraction is now proceeded with as before, in- 
cluding the distillation. 25 gallons of main distillate are again 
obtained, which must, be twice as strong as the first. As, of 
course, more liquid must lie introduced into the apparatus, the 
10 gallons secondarily obtained from the first extraction are added 
first, and then the water necessary. The product of the second 
distillation is again 25 gallons of main distillate and 10 gallons of 
secondary distillate; and this method of manipulation may be re- 
peated as often as desired. 

As a rule, using rind fruits, such as lemons, oranges and man- 
darins, the operation is repeated four times, so that using four 
times 200 lb. of rinds with only 25 gallons of proof spirit, there 
are obtained at the end of the fourth operation 25 gallons of dis- 
tlllnti? enriched fourfold, and the usual 10 gallons of secondary 
distillate which, as it contains a large quantity of terpenes, as we 
will see later on, is treated in a special manner. 

With the other kinds of fruits the operation is usually repeated 
a sixth time, the first to the fourth being carried out as already 
described; the fifth is varied in that only 15 gallons are collected 






174 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

as the main distillate, while 20 gallons are collected as the 
ary distillate. The sixth manipulation has another purpose; its 
object is the enrichment of the very concentrated distillate with 
natural extractives which impart to the essence a full, rounded 
flavor, and which, by reason of their tannin content, favor the 
ripening of the essences on storage. At the same time they im- 
part to the essence the requisite natural coloring. For this pur- 
pose, the procedure is as follows: The usual 300 lb. of fruit are 
again used, but this time the fruit is first expressed as thoroughly 
as possible, so that only about 100 lb. of residue remain, with 
about 2\ gallons of juice which for the present is reserved- The 
residue is now packed in an upright percolator cask after being 
moistened with the 15 gallons of distillate from the fifth operation. 
The percolator is open at the top, and is provided with a glass cock; 
the maceration is allowed to proceed for a day. Thereupon the 
cock is opened, and the extract allowed to run off without any 
pressure being applied, about 12 gallons of extract being thus 
obtained and set aside. The total material in the percolator 
is now mixed in the kettle with the juice reserved and the 20 
gallons of secondary distillate from the fifth operation, and the 
distillation is proceeded with, neglecting this time the superfluous 
extraction, until about 20 gallons of distillate are obtained. There- 
upon the apparatus is emptied, and the distillate is rectified once 
more, so that 15 gallons are obtained, which are then mixed with 
the extract obtained as above. This finished essence is now placed 
on the balance, and distilled water is added to make it weigh 
300 lb., thus bringing the essence to a utilizability of \ : 100, 
= 1 oz. per gallon syrup. Altogether we have used six times 300 
lb. of fruit and only once 25 gallons of proof spirit, hence the results 
ing 300 lb. have an alcohol strength of about 20° underproof. 

Removing the Terpenes from Rind Essences 
As we have seen, after the fourth operation there have been 
obtained 25 gallons of main distillate. The latter, together with 
20 gallons of water, are now placed in the still and distilled 
over, but without using a vacuum, into the Florence flask. The 
terpenes are carried over with the strongly alcoholic vapors, but 
separate immediately on condensation, collecting as a light, oily 
liquid in the Florence flask while the alcoholic portion flows 
back into the still. This refluv distillation is carried ou until 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 175 

the oily layer in the receiver no longer increases in volume. The 
receiver is then disconnected, and the alcoholic liquid is poured 
hack into the still; the terpenes are dried over anhydrous sodium 
sulphate, and utilized as a side product which may be used for 
cheap soaps and for diluting ethereal oils. A further 10 gallons of 
water are now added to the contents of the still, and 40 gallons 
are distilled off, which are filtered to remove any residual terpenes 
or other turbidities, using infusorial earth (Kieselguhr) to obtain 
an absolutely brilliant filtrate which is once more distilled to yield 
30 gallons. This distillate is now placed on the balance, and dis- 
tilled water is added to make it weigh 300 lb., the finished essence 
also having a utilizability of £ : 100 = 1 oz. per gallon of syrup. 

Diluting the Essences 

The methods described above yield perfectly pure fruit essences 
which, when made from rinds, require no preservatives, such as 
may have to be added to essences prepared from other kinds of fruit. 
The concentration is quite considerable, and the alcohol content 
in every case is 20° underproof. From this it follows that to 
dilute the essence to a standard quality of 1 : 100, only an equal 
volume of distilled water is required to be added in order to afford a 
utilizability of 1 : 100, = 2 oz. per gallon of syrup, for the requisite 
alcohol content of at least 42° underproof, after the necessary 
preservative has been added. 

2. Distillation Without a Vacuum 

This is carried out exactly like the vacuum distillation, but is 
naturally devoid of the advantages afforded by the latter; in 
particular, a greater loss of alcohol must be expected. When the 
kettle is not arranged for extraction, having no cover condenser, 
distillation must be proceeded with from the beginning, but 
otherwise under the same conditions of charging, of twice return- 
ing 10 gallons of distillate to the still, and then completing the 
distillation in the manner already described to obtain the like end 
result. 

3. Working up of Residues 

The flavor is unevenly distributed in fruits, and although the j uice 
has a very fine flavor, it is not sufficiently strong in it, thus the 
25 gallons of juice contain no more flavor than 50 lb. of fresh fruit 
contain. From this it follows that the major portion of the flavor 



176 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



must reside in the residues deprived of the juice. Even though 
it is stated that the essences made from the residues are inferior 
in quality, it must be said that this is so only when during the 
course of manufacture the residues have been overheated, or were 
not fresh. 




Fig. 31. Simple distilling apparatus. 

Operating with a vacuum at a suitably low temperature, how- 
ever, products arc obtained equal in quality to those obtained from 
the whole fruit. The residues, however, must not be subjected 
to a secondary expression. The best mode of procedure is not to 
express the fruit at all, but to place the fruit, e.g., berries, in com- 
minuted form, in a cask provided with a sieve bottom, and to allow 
the virgin juice to run off, which it does to the extent of about 45%. 
This method is advantageous in so far as the juice may be utilized 
as such, and without influencing the quality of the essence. In this 
case, however, the residues from 400 lb. of whole berries, instead 
of 300 lb., must l>e taken. This applies also to the residues from 
ail other fruits, only in every ' residue must be stirred with 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



177 



water to make a mash the total weight of which must be about 
300 lb., to make a charge for the kettle; the distillation is then 
proceeded with as already described, the essence obtained being 
at least equal in value to that obtained from the whole fruit, since 
relatively more fruit had been employed. 

4. Extraction Methods 

Extraction is only occasionally employed, and then only for such 
fruits as cannot be heated above 170° F. without injury, such 
as strawberries, which it is impossible to distil without the 
use of a vacuum. Lacking a vacuum pan, the following ex- 
traction method is employed: The fruit is first pressed, the juice 
thus obtained being utilized independently, because its water 
content renders it unadapted for concentration as it would too 
greatly dilute the alcohol required. Hence only the fruit residue 
is employed, it being mixed with double the quantity of alcohol 
of about 38° overproof, and allowed to stand for two days. The 
mixture is then expressed, and the liquid extract is employed for a 
new batch of fruit residue. Thus, were 50 lb. of strawberry residue 
taken, this would be treated with about 12 gallons of the alcohol; 
after expression about 15 gallons of extract would be obtained. 
This extract is now added to a new 50 lb. of f ruit residue, which is 
expressed after two days, 15 gallons of a stronger extract being 
obtained, which again is added to 50 lb. of fresh strawberry residue, 
15 gallons of extract Ixsing obtained for the third time. The three 
spent portions of residue are then mixed with about (30 gallons of 
water and distilled, the distillate being rectified down to about 
10 gallons which are then added to the 15 gallons of extract al- 
ready obtained. The essence so obtained has a utilizability of 
2 : 100, i.e., 4 oz. per gallon of lemonade syrup. A higher degree 
of concentration cannot lie well obtained by this method; and 
the extract, essence has an alcohol content of about 15° underproof. 

In a similar manner essences are made from bananas and pine- 
apples, and the modified methods required will lie described under 
the fruits in question. 

5. Isolating the Fruit Flavors (Aroma Oils) 
In the case of these peculiar flavors it is the object to transfer 
the flavor, which has been rendered soluble, to a medium insolu- 
ble in alcohol and water; and for this purpose the best substance 




178 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

is pure petroleum ether, which, above all, must be perfectly free 
from all foreign odorous substances. The object is effected by 
shaking out the flavoring, rendered soluble, and whether on hand 
in the form of fruit juices or extracts, or even distillates. The 
petroleum ether is insoluble in alcohol, neither does it dissolve 
any alcohol; it is, however, an excellent solvent for flavors of all 
kinds, and, being the better solvent, abstracts these from other 
solutions. 

The flavor is first rendered soluble, for which purpose fruit 
residues are used, in order to render possible a concentration from 
the very start, as the water content of the juice would render 
illusory the utilization of any alcohol. On the other hand, the 
residual fruit juice may lie subsequently subjected to a shaking 
out. For this purpose the friut-juice residue is placed in a per- 
colator cask, and strong alcohol is poured over it to cover it. 
After standing 24 hours percolation is allowed lo proceed, strong 
alcohol being added until 25 gallons of extract are obtained from 
100 lb. fruit; the percolation is then continued until a second 
25 gallons are collected. The quantity of alcohol employed is 
immaterial, because it is subsequently regained. The residue 
is now transferred to the still and the alcohol distilled off as usual, 
whereby any flavoring still remaining is carried over in the dis- 
tillate. This distillate is once more rectified, and the high per- 
centage distillate may be used again with a new batch of material. 
We have now 25 gallons of primary, and 25 gallons of secondary, 
extract. With this last extract another 100 lb. of fruit residues 
are treated, obtaining 25 gallons of primary extract which is the 
more concentrated because it contains the flavor of the secondary 
extract together with the greater part of that of the freshly treated 
substance. Pouring on more alcohol, a secondary extract is again 
obtained, which, in turn, is used for a fresh batch of material as 
ljefore; and this procedure may be repeated as often as desired, 
obtaining an always uniform extract consisting of primary per- 
colates, for the manufacture of which the secondary - percolates 
of the previously treated material are used. These percolates 
are now shaken with one-tenth their volume of petroleum ether in 
suitable vessels, whereby the greater part of the flavoring passes 
into the petroleum ether. The latter, after it has been allowed 
to collect on the surface of the liquid, is drawn off; the liquid is 
again shaken with a like quantity of petroleum ether as before, 



NON-AL00HUL1C BEVERAGE 



179 



etbei 
from 
laboi 
yield 



and this second portion, when collected, is employed for shaking 
out a fresh portion of percolate. In this manner any flavoring 
not extracted during the first shaking out is utilised, and not 
allowed to be lost. 

The petroleum-ether extract is now subjected to distillation, 
using a water-bath and a good condensing apparatus, so that the 
flavoring remains behind in the still, while flavor-free petroleum 
ether is obtained as a distillate. Should, however, any of the 
flavoring really pass over into the distillate it is regained, because 
the distillate is used for shaking out a fresh portion of percolate. 
The product obtained is small in quantity, and forms a viscid, 
dark, almost oily liquid, representing the isolated flavoring. It 
represents 2000 to 3000 times its weight of the fruit employed, i.c, 
using about 3 tons of berries, the end result weighs about 2 lb. 
This product is now dissolved in five times its quantity of absolute 
alcohol, and is subjected to a freezing mixture, whereby wax is 
precipitated. On filtering, the filtrate forms the concentrated 
flavoring oil having a provisional strength 100 times greater than 
that of the \ : 100 essence obtained by the vacuum process. For 
this it is, however, necessary that the fruit juice obtained in pre- 
paring the residues !>e in similar manner shaken out with petroleum 
ether, and tbat these extracts be distilled just like those obtained 

im the fruit residues. If, however, it is desired to avoid this 
and utilize the juice to better advantage otherwise, the 
yield of flavoring oil will be alx>ut 25% less. Following the pre- 
ceding operations it must be mentioned that the alcoholic extract 
of the residues, after having l>ecn shaken out with petroleum ether, 
are subjected to distillation in order to recover the alcohol, and 
ahould any flavoring really not have passed over into the petroleum 
ether, it remains in the alcohol and is hence utilized in the finished 
preparation. The whole process would appear at first, sight to be 
inconvenient, but it is greatly simplified by the fact that through 
the reemployment of the solvents, which are recovered after they 
have yielded up the flavoring, the processes are conducted with 
relatively small quantities of alcohol and petroleum ether, when 
the recovery of the solvents is always immediately practiced for 
carrying on the operation. The yield is never quite uniform, and 

ither is the strength, hence an evaluation is always necessary. 

stated above, the average end product of 2 lb., obtained from 

of fruit, when dissolved in alcohol, affords about 10 lb. of 




ISO MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

flavoring oil, which, in turn, is about 100 times stronger than a 
J : 100 essence, then only 1 ounce of the flavoring oil would be 
required to flavor 50 gallons of syrup. This form of concentra- 
tion is, however, very unhandy, and for this reason the various 
flavoring oils are alcoholic dilutions which are adapted to the 
prices to be charged and to their utilizability. Thus, by dissolv- 
ing 1 oz. of the product in 6\ lb. diluted alcohol, an aromatic 
essence is obtained approximately equal to a concentrated J : 100 
essence, I lb. of which contains the flavoring from 6 lb. of fruit. 
For the sake of completeness it may be mentioned that the true 
honey-aroma oil may be obtained in the following manner: 
Genuine honey is dissolved in six times its quantity of diluted 
alcohol, and the mixture is then shaken with petroleum ether. 
The deflavorcd honey is then freed from alcohol by distilling off 
the latter, and is utilized as a honey surrogate. The yield of 
flavoring is however quite varied, and depends upon the quality 
of the honey operated upon. 

On the whole the honey-aroma oils are justifiable for 
poses of export to such countries as place a high duty on alcoholic 
essences; and also for the filler kinds of confectionery which re- 
quire the use of flavoring in the most concentrated form possible 
in order to prevent the liquefaction of the sugar mass. When 
necessary, artificially made substances are also employed in addi- 
tion. 






SPECIAL METHODS FOR MAKING FRUIT ESSENCES 

On the whole, the methods of manufacture have been fully 
described. There remains but to mention certain modifications 
and additions required for the individual fruits, as well as to make 
a few remarks regarding the character of the fruits to be employed, 

A. Berries 
1. Wild Berries 
These comprise the well-known berries found in the woods, 
members of the Ericaceae (Vaccinium). They are the huckle- 
l>erries (Vaccinium Myrtillus L.) and the various cranberries 
(V. Vitis-Idffia L., Oxycoccus Oxycoccus MacM., etc.). They 
are less frequently used for making essences for lemonades. 
As their juioes are very valuable, they are used by themselves, 



pur- 
lolic 

e 

Q 

■ 

7 

: 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



181 



lore particularly in making fruit wines and marmalades, and 
hence only the fruit residues are worked up into essences. The 
flavoring afforded is not very distinctive, hence it is better if the 
fruit can be fermented before being worked up, whereby the 
flavor is fairly developed. It is quite sensitive to distillation, so 
that, considering the very small quantity developed, it is more 
advantageous to employ the extraction method. As a fixing 
for all these fruits it is advisable to use vanillin, of which 
1 dram may be added to every 10 lb. of the \ : 100 e 



2. Most Important Cultiva 



■ Berries 



Raspberries: This fruit unquestionably plays the greatest 
le in the lemonade industry. A notable difference exists be- 
tween the garden or cultivated raspberry and the wild or mountain 
berry. With the former the yield of juice is relatively larger, 
although its acid content is smaller. For the preparation of 
sences, however, it is of greater advantage to use the wild fruit 
its flavor is more decidedly pronounced. Raspberry essence 
obtained exclusively by distillation. The following mixture ia 
be added to 1 cwt. of the £ : 100 essence for fixing purposes: 

Vanillin J oz. 

Ionone (lO'^J, solution) , . , , } " 

Jasmine Oil (10% solution) 1 dr. 

Benzyl Benzoate 5 oz. 

Strawberries: With these also there is a difference between the 

titivated and wild berries. The latter are the more aromatic 

id go farthest, but it is of the greatest importance that they 

■ used when perfectly fresh, as they are exceedingly sensitive to 

lentation. If fresh wild !>erries cannot be immediately worked 

ip, it is preferable to use the cultivated fruit, only in this ease 

the fruit should !>e small and of deep red color, and should be 

gathered in the morning before exposure to the sun's rays. The 

flavoring withstands distillation very poorly, and can only be 

obtained by aid of a vacuum. Otherwise the extraction method 

must be resorted to. For fixing, 1 cwt. essence requires 

lowing : 



Cumann 


I<* 









net hod 
■es the 



182 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

Currants: In the essence industry, the white currants scarce 
ever come into question, while the red currants are utilized to a 
limited extent, although both are well utUizable in the manufac- 
ture of juices. Black currants, on the other hand, are excellently 
adapted for the manufacture of an essence, because, while in the 
fresh state the odor of the berries is pleasant, the odor, when the 
fruit is fermented, develops an exceedingly flower-like, vinous 
character, so that the black currant essence is highly prized as an 
addition to compounds which are to have a full bouquet. If an 
essence is to Iks made from red currants, at least one-third of the 
berries should be replaced by black currants in order to obtain an 
essence that will have utilizable flavor. For fixing 1 cwt. of such 
essence there will be required: 

Vanillin ] o«. 

Yara-Yara , J " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2 dr. 

Rose Oil 1 " 

Ionone (10% solution) , . , 5 " 

Gooseberries: The aroma of these berries is not well developed, 
and is best observed in the fully ripe, highly colored berries, and 
far less in the green sort. In any case the flavor must be develops! 
by fermentation, and the extraction method must be employed. 
For fixing 1 cwt. of the essence there will be required: 

Cumarin | oi. 

Ionone (10% solution) | - 

Fennel Oil ] 1 ilr. 

Rose Oil 1 " 

Blackberry, European: This berry possesses a very fine flavor, 
which, however, requires for its development a preliminary fer- 
mentation. The essence is obtained by distillation, and for 
fixing it, 1 cwt. requires: 

Vamllin J U. 

Benzaldi-hydc \ " 

II- '-' ■- ■ ■! ,,,.,. ) " 

Methyl Salicylate 5 dr. 

Birch Tar Oil 2 " 

3. The More Unusual Kinds of Berries 

Garden Barberries, European Elder Berries, Juniper Berries, 
Mulberries and European Mountain Ash Berries are worked up 
like the wild berries, i.e., by extraction methods, because of their 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

limited use. For fixing the essences made from them there is 
required 1 dr. vanillin for every 10 lb. of essence. Grapes are 
practically not at all worked up, or at the most only the dark red or 
blue sorts, and these, too, only by extraction methods, employing 
usually wine distillate instead of commercial alcohol, but no fixing 
agent. 

B. Stone Fruits 

The flavor of stone fruits is always fairly characteristic, but 
there is always present a suggestion of a bitter almond flavor, due 
to the kernel. For the manufacture of essence, however, the fruit 
must always l>e stoned, as the bitter almond flavor can always be 
imparted by means of bcnzaldehydc, and this is, moreover, pro- 
vided for in the fixing, which in all cases requires the addition of 
\ oz. vanillin and 1^ oz. benzaklehyde to eveiy hundred weight of 
essence. The most important of these essences are those of the 
apricot and peach, which, however, in many cases are replaced by 
artificial flavors, replacing the apricot essence by methyl anthrani- 
late, and peach essence by the odorous substance known as "per- 
sicol." Otherwise it is usual to employ extraction methods as 
the flavors are very sensitive. 

Cherries: The flavor is best developed in sweet, dark cherries, 
which bear distillation exceptionally well. The Sour Cherries 
(agriots) are almost exclusively used only in the manufacturing 
of juices. 

Plums: The flower-tike character of the plum flavor is advan- 
tageously utilized in the early ripening yellow and dark-blue kinds. 
The ordinary prunes are not at all utilizablc. The flavor can well 
be obtained by distillation, and is advantageously developed by a 
preliminary fermentation. 

C. Seed Fruits 

Apples: It is most advantageous to use the highly yellow, small, 
early apples, or other kinds of highly-colored fall apples, because 
in these the flavor is most decidedly developed. If supplies of 
fresh apple peels are available, such as form a by-product in the 
manufacture of fine marmalades, such peels may be used with 
great advantage, as, because of their greater content of flavoring, 
1 cwt. are equal in value to 3 cwt. of apples, The peels, however, 
can only be used when perfectly fresh, but when whole apples 
are used, they must first lie thoroughly fermented by which n 



184 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

only is the flavor fully developed. The apple essence does not 
bear fixing, although the flavor may be made more intense if, 
before the final distillation, 2 oz. amyl valerate are added to 1 cwt. 
of the essence to be obtained. 

A good essence has also been made from dried apples, or better, 
from the apple peels obtained as a by-product in the manufacture 
of sliced, dried apples. The method of manufacture consists in 
first macerating 1 cwt. of the dried apples with 30 gallons of proof 
spirit. At the end of three days' maceration, the mass is trans- 
ferred to a still, 30 gallons of water are added further, and dis- 
tillation is carried out in vacuo to avoid any "baked" fruit taste, 
until 30 gallons of distillate are obtained. With the distillate 
1 cwt. of apple peels is again similarly treated, so that on distilla- 
tion about 30 gallons of a double-strength distillate is obtained, 
which is diluted with water to yield an end-result of 3 cwt., afford- 
ing a 1 : 100 essence. 

Pears: Of these, too, only the highly-colored yellow and red 
early fruit is used. The fruit is subjected to a preliminary fer- 
mentation, the essence being then obtained by distillation. For 
fixing, there are added to each hundred weight of essence 2 oz.- 
vanillin and J oz. neroli oil. 

Quinces: Of these the pear-shaped fruit is -to be preferred 
to the apple-shaped, and it is further necessary that the fruit 
should 1x3 allowed to dry for a long time, in order to fully develop 
the characteristic flavor. For fixing purposes, there is added 
1? oz. vanillin to 1 cwt. of the essence. As a surrogate, a mixture 
of equal parts of pear essence and apple essence may be used. 

D. Citrus Fruits 

We have here to deal with essences obtained from members of 
the Citrus family. These essences arc obtained only from the 
rinds, and only according to the method the general rules of 
which will presently be detailed. The essence must be free from 
tcrpencs, and must be miscible with water in all proportions. 
The flavor exhibits the peculiarity that it easily becomes rancid, 
the change l>eing favored by the fruit acids, and it then acquires 
a tur|XMitine- or soap-like taste. It is hence advisable not to 
keep the extract mixture or syrup m stock for any length of time. 
These essences will not stand fixing of any kind, although it may 
appen that they arc fortified with terpcneless oils. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVKRAOEB 



185 



The rinds to be used should be thin, and should be obtained by 
means of a paring machine. A case of frail — about 200 to 300 — 
yields about 11 lb. of rinds. These are to be fairly free from the 
white, parenchymatous portion, and they must be fresh, as they 
are prone to ferment easily, whereby their flavor will be impaired. 
Where the finds are to be kept for some time, particularly during 
transportation from source of supply to the essence manufacturer, 
and particularly during the hot season, it is advisable to immerse 
the rinds in a 10% sodium chloride solution, which in nowise 
impairs the flavor, and which needs simply to be poured off when 
about to work up the rinds. 

Essences of the citrus fruits are also often made from the vola- 
tile oils, in which case only terpeneless oils are to be used, and 
according to the following formula: 

TerpeneleflB Oil 3 dr. 

Alcohol (strong) 10 cw. 

Dissolve, and add Distilled WaWr 6 " 

This essence has then a utilizahility of 1 : 100, = 2 os. per 
gallon of syrup. For making lemon essence, citral is frequently 
used, because it is a constituent, although not the most valuable, 
of lemon oil. The citral of the market is obtained from lemon 
grass, and can never afford a substitute for the pure lemon taste. 
Should it, however, be used, 2 dr. to 1 lb. diluted alcohol suffice 
to afford a 1 : 100 essence. For making the popular Lime Juice 
and Soda Essence the terpeneless oil of the West Indian oil of 
limes is used according to the preceding formula. The Italian 
oil of limes has an entirely different taste, resembling only that 
of refined lemons. 

The citrus fruits here in question are the lemon, sweet and bitter 
orange, lime and mandarin orange. Regarding the last men- 
tioned, it must lie remarked that the fruit cannot easily be peeled, 
and the peels used must be removed by hand. 



E. Exotic Fruits 



Pineapples: Pineapples are most important in the lemonade 
industry, and because of its penetrating aroma, the West Indian 
fruit is to be preferred to the hot-house fruit. The flavoring is 
particularly rich in the leathery rind, whereas the juice, in spite 
of its agreeable taste, contains but little of the characteristic 
flavor. The fruit is peeled, and is then most advantageously . 



180 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

used in the preserve industry or for making pineapple juice. The 
pineapple essence is best made by comminuting the peel and treat- 
ing it with double its quantity of strong alcohol, and allowing 
the mixture to stand for two days. The mass is then expressed, 
whereby an equal quantity of liquid extract is obtained. It 
is advantageous to treat the marc agaiu with a like quantity of 
alcohol, and to express after standing for one day, utilizing the 
liquid thus obtained with another batch of fresh peels. For 
fixing, 2 dr. vanillin are added to every 10 lb. of the essence. The 
utilizability of the essence is restricted, being only 2 : 100, = 4 oz. 
per gallon of syrup. The distil lability of the flavoring is likewise 
restricted, and the flavoring docs not afford the taste of the fruit 
true to nature, hence it is not to Ijc recommended. 

Banana: Although formerly the highly aromatic peel was used, 
at the present time the extract is generally made from the fruit 
substance which, however, must not be unripe, nor yet overripe. 
The flavor is not distillable, hence exhaustion methods must 
be employed. A batch of the comminuted fruit substance 
treated with double the quantity of strong alcohol, and the m 
ture expressed after two days. With this extract a fresh batch 
of fruit may be treated in order to concentrate the essence which 
then will have a utilizability of 2 : 100, = 4 oz. per gallon of 
syrup. For fixing, 2 dr. vanillin arc added to every 10 lb. of 






Pomegranate: Of this only the fruit substance itself is 
this being very carefully freed from the leathery rind. 
latter contains considerable tannin, which would completely 
spoil the naturally weak taste of the extract. In this case, too, 
only the expressed fruit is worked up, and by the extractioi 
method. In any event, the flavor is exceedingly delicate, hence 
for those beverages designated as grenadines, it is usual to employ 
an artificial essence consisting chiefly of peach and Btrawbcrry. 

F. Various Fruits 

Among these are melons and cucumbers. In working these, the 
fully ripe fruit is thoroughly comminuted, ami freed from juice 
by expression. The residue is then worked up by the extraction 
method to make an essence, of which that obtained from melons 
is fortified by the addition of 2 dr. vanillin to every 10 lb. 
addition, however, is made to the essence from cucumbers. 



l melons 
lb. No 



. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

ESSENCES MADE FROM OTHER PLANT PARTS 

A. Celery and Rhubarb 

Celery tubers are washed, comminuted and then strongly ex- 
pressed. The residue is then worked up into an essence by the 
extraction method, as the delicate aroma is particularly unable 
to stand distillation. This also applies to rhubarb, of which the 
highly red stems are worked up, the stems being first softened with 
boiling water, then cut up, and strongly expressed. In this case, 
also, the extraction method is used, with the difference, however, 
that wine distillate is used instead of alcohol. With neither 
celery nor rhubarb is it necessary to add any fixing agent. 

B. Hops and Malt 

For making beer-like lemonades their is required as a basis a 
mall essence, which is made as follows: 50 lb. fresh, light-colored, 
kiln-dried malt, well comminuted, are mixed with 20 gallons of 
water to make a inash, which is then heated to 170° F., but not 
above 180° F. After one hour there are added 3 gallons of strong 
alcohol, after which 6 gallons of liquid are slowly distilled off and 
collected. A fresh batch of malt is now made into a mash as 
Iwforej but instead of adding alcohol, the 6 gallons of distillate 
from the first batch arc added, and the mixture is distilled, collecting 
the 6 gallons of distillate first received, which will have a utiliza- 
bility of 1 : 100, = 2 oz. per gallon of syrup. The further details 
for making beer-like lemonades will be described further on. 

Hop Essence. — This is a tincture made by treating dried hops 
with 10 times their quantity of proof spirit for 8 days. 

C. Ginger and Sweet Woodruff 

Ginger: The strongest is the unpeeted Jamaica ginger root. 
The characteristic taste is due to an extractive, which, however, 
is accompanied by a resin which may l>e separated by washing 
out with alkalies, as follows: 10 lb. of ginger root are treated with 
3 gallons of cold water in which 1 lb. sodium bicarbonate has been 
dissolved. After one day, the dirty yellow extract, is drawn off 
and discarded as worthless, and the residue well washed wil 
plenty of water, say thrice with 5 gallons each time. When all 
the water has drained off, 2 gallons of strong alcohol arc then 
poured over the residue, and the whole allowed to stand for three 







MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

days. Then 10 lb. of liquid are allowed to run off, after which 
2 gallons proof spirit are added to the residue, and a second per- 
colate of 10 lb, is collected. After this, water is poured on the 
marc, and a further 5-lb. percolate is obtained. The various per- 
colates are mixed, affording 25 lb. of an essence of 2 : 100, = 4 oz. 
per gallon of syrup. 

Under the name gingerine there is marketed a concentrated 
ginger extract for the manufacture of which the clearly soluble 
essence above described is used. In making it, the 25 lb. of 
essence are evaporated by distillation down to 3 lb., the alcohol 
being collected during the distillation. To the 3 lb. of residue so 
obtained, 2 lb. of the strong alcohol first distilled over are added 
for preservative purposes. These 5 lb. of extract are five times 
stronger than the above-described essence, and hence only J oz. 
of it is required per gallon of syrup. The remainder of the alco- 
holic distillate is rectified, and used in making a new lot of es- 
sence. 

Sweet Woodruff. — In the manufacture of lemonades an essence 
of woodruff, made from the fresh herb in blossom, is not strong 
enough, and furthermore is very prone to cause turbidity. Hence 
it is customary to use an artificial woodruff essence which is fully 
equivalent to the natural essence, in that the cumarin employed 
is a natural constituent of the sweet woodruff. 

ARTIFICIAL WOODRUFF ESSENCE 

(1 : 100, = 2 oz. per gallon syrup) 

Cumarin Ira. 

Hot Alcohol 15 " 

Dissolve, then add 

Alcohol 2 1b. 

Tincture Tonka Bean (1:5) 1 " 

Distilled Water ; 6 " 

10 lb. 

D. Essences for Stimulant Beverages 

(Cacao, Chocolate, Cola, Coffee, Tea) 

(a) Cacao (so-caUed "Cocoa") Essence (4 oz. per gallon) 

5 lb. of roasted, ground cacao beans are macerated with '. 

gallons proof spirit for three days, and then, with a final additior 

of 2 gallons of water, slowly distilled to afford a yield of 10 1 

essence, in which 1\ dr. vanillin are to be dissolved. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 189 

(6) Chocolate Essence (4 oz. per gallon) 

Vanillin J dr. 

Tincture Cinnamon 6 " 

Tincture Cloves 12 " 

Rum Essence 13} " 

Cacao Essence 12 oz. 

lib. 
(c) Coffee Essence (4 oz. per gallon) 

Ground Coffee (sharply roasted) 5 lb. 

Cinnamon 4 oz. 

Mace 5 " 

Airak 8 " 

Alcohol (25° underproof) 2} gal. 

Macerate for three days, then distil slowly, with final addition of 

Water 2J gal. 

to yield 10 lb. distillate. 

(d) Cola Essence (2 oz. per gallon) 

Macerate 1 part roasted cola nuts with 5 parts proof spirit, and 
then use the extract in the following mixture: 

Pear Essence } oz. 

Woodruff Essence 1§ " 

Orange Essence 1 J " 

Vanilla Lemonade Essence 1 J " 

Cola Tincture (as above) 3§ " 

Bitter Orange Essence 7j " 

1 lb. 

(e) Tea Essence (4 oz. per gallon) 

Ceylon Tea 3 lb. 

Dried Rose Leaves } " 

Arrak 1 pint 

Orange Flower Water 1J lb. 

Pineapple Essence 1J " 

Alcohol 2 " 

Water 5 " 

Macerate for three days, and, with the subsequent use of water, 
percolate off 10 lb. liquid, in which dissolve 1 J dr. vanillin. 

E. Lemonade Essence from Volatile Oils and Artificial 

Odorants 

(a) Bitter Almond Essence (2 oz. per gallon) 

Benzaldehyde J oz. 

Alcohol 5} " 

Distilled Water 10 " 

1 lb. 



190 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

(6) Honey Essence (2 oz. per gallon) 

Honey-flavor Oil J oz. 

Alcohol 12J " 

Rose Water 3 " 

1 lb. 

(c) Rose Essence (2 oz. per gallon) 

Rose Oil } dr. 

Alcohol (warmed) 6 oz. 

Dissolve, then add 

Rose Water 3 oz. 

Lemon Essence 3 " 

Orange Essence 4 " 

1 lb. 

(d) Sarsaparilla Essence (2 oz. per gallon) 

Sassafras Oil J oz. 

Alcohol 10| " 

Distilled Water 5 " 

1 lb. 

(e) Vanilla Essence (2 oz. per gallon) 

Vanillin 4 dr. 

Alcohol 6 oz. 

Dissolve, then add 

Tincture Tonka { " 

Distilled Water 9 " 

1 lb. 

(/) Violet Essence (2 oz. per gallon) 

Tincture Orris Root 1 § oz. 

Ionone (10%) J dr. 

Alcohol 6 oz. 

Water 8j " 

1 lb. 

COMPOSITION OF LEMONADE ESSENCES 

These comprise a number of fancy lemonades made parti) 
from fruit essences, partly with the aid of artificial substances 
The utilizability of all of them is 2 oz. per gallon of syrup. 

(a) Artificial Fruit Flavors 
1. Grenadine Essence 

Vanilla Essence 2 os. 

Peach Essence 3} " 

Strawberry Essence 10j " 

1 lb. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 191 

2. Currant Essence 

Peach Essence 2 oz. 

Black Currant Essence 14 " 

1 lb. 

3. Lime Essence 

Orange Essence 

Strawberry Essence 

Raspberry Essence 

Lemon Essence equal parts 

4. Messina Fruit Essence 

Lemon Essence 4 oz. 

Bitter Orange Essence 4 " . 

Sweet Orange Essence 8 " 

lib. 

5. Nectarine Essence 

Apricot Essence 4 oz. 

Peach Essence 4 " 

Strawberry Essence 8 " 

lib. 

6. Tutti-Frutti Essence 

Rum Essence 2 oz 

Raspberry Essence 2 " 

Strawberry Essence 2 " 

Lemon Essence 4 " 

Pineapple Essence 6 " 

lib. 

(b) Artificial Fruit Cups 

7. Champagne Fruit Cup 

Rum Essence 1§ oz. 

Strawberry Essence 2 " 

Raspberry Essence 2 J " 

Lemon Essence 3 " 

Pineapple Essence 7 " 

FTb. 

8. Swedish Fruit Cup 

Vanilla Essence 1 oz. 

Strawberry Essence 3 " 

Grape Essence 4 " 

Arrak Essence 8 " 

Fib". 



192 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

9. Cold Duck 

Strawberry Essence 4 oi. 

Pineapple Essence 4 " 

Rum Essence 8 " 

lib. 

(c) Artificial Wine Flavors 

Basic Essences for Wine Lemonades 

10. Claret Essence 

Ambergris Tincture i dr. 

Ethyl Acetate 31 " 

Carob Tincture 8 J oz. 

Cherry Juice 7J " 

Krameria Tincture 4 lb. 

Wine Distillate 5 " 

10 lb. 

11. White Wine Essence 

Cognac Oil 10 dr. 

Ethyl Nitrite 22 " 

Ethyl Acetate 1| oi. 

St. John's Bread Tincture 12J " 

Wine Distillate 4} lb. 

Water 4j " 

10 lb. 

12. Port Wine Essence 

Ambergris Tincture J dr. 

Ethyl Acetate 71 " 

Krameria Tincture 1§ os. 

Elder Flower Tincture 2 " 

St. John's Bread Tincture 3 " 

Carob Tincture 3 " 

Cacao Essence 3 " 

Wine Distillate 3 " 

1 lb. 

Artificial Cider Lemonades 
13. Apple Cider 

Port Wine Essence § os. 

Currant Essence 1 " 

White Wine Essence 4 " 

Apple Essence 10| " 

TTb. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 193 

14. Apricot Cider 

Currant Essence 3 oz. 

Apricot Essence 6 " 

Wine Distillate 7_^_ 

" 1 lb. 

15. Currant Cider 

Port Wine Essence 3 oz. 

Wine Distillate 4 " 

Black Currant Essence 9 " 

lib. 

16. Peach Cider 

Wine Distillate 3 oz. 

Apple Essence 5 " 

Peach Essence 8 " 

lib. 

Artificial Champagne Lemonades 

17. Champagne Lemonade 

White Wine Essence 1} oz. 

Port Wine Essence 1} " 

Wine Distillate 6 " 

Proof Spirit 7 " 

1 lb. 

18. "Civilsekt" 

Bitter Almond Water 1} oz. 

Pineapple Essence 1} " 

Currant Essence 3 " 

Wine Distillate 4J " 

Proof Spirit 5} " 

l" lb. 

19. Champagne Lemonade a la Jacqueron Fils 

Violet Lemonade Essence 1 oz. 

Grape Essence 2 " 

Elder Flower Tincture 3 " 

Wine Distillate 4J " 

Proof Spirit 6 " 

1 lb. 

20. Champagne Lemonade a la Veuve Cliquot 

Apricot Essence J oz. 

Vanilla Essence 1} " 

Currant Essence 1§ " 

Wine Distillate 3 " 

Proof Spirit 9j " 

1 lb. 



194 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

Artificial Wine Flavors 
21. Claret Lemonade 

Clove Tincture 3 dr. 

Cinnamon Tincture 5 " 

Claret Essence ; 2 os. 

Cherry Juice 5J " 

Red Wine 8 " 

1 lb. 

22. Muscatel Lemonade 

Honey Lemonade Essence } o». 

Claret Essence 2 " 

Port Wine Essence 3 " 

Grape Essence 10j " 

1 lb. 

23. Nectar Lemonade , 

Honey Lemonade Essence J o«. 

Rum Essence 1} " 

Port Wine Essence 3 " 

Currant Essence 3 " 

Apple Essence 8 " 

1 lb. 
24. White Wine Lemonade 

For making these there is employed the essence described as 
white wine essence. 

Artificial Punch Lemonades 
25. Claret Punch Lemonade 

Rum Essence 1 o*. 

Claret Lemonade Essence 15 " 

~TTb. 

26. Swedish Punch Lemonade Essence 

Vanilla Essence 1 os. 

Arrak Essence 5 " 

White Wine Essence 10 " 

lib. 
(d) Artificial Beer-Like Beverages 

Malt essence is used as the basic material for m Airing these 
beverages. The bitter taste is imparted by hop essence, and for 
those of very bitter taste, gentian tincture is used. All these 
beverages are made from extracts, which contain considerable 
burnt sugar, the caramel-taste of which is necessary in order to 
simulate that of beer. The following formulas are those of ex- 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 195 

tracts of which 20 oz. are required per gallon of beverage. This 
is apparently a rather high proportion, but it will be found that 
instead of the 1J oz. usually required of the various syrups for a 
12-oz. bottle, only f oz. of this syrup is required when bottling 
with carbonated water at a pressure of two atmospheres, in order 
lot to impart too sweet a taste to the resulting lemonade. 

27. Ginger Beeb Extract 

Caramel 3 lb. 

Foam Essence 1 

Citric Acid Solution 1 

Malt Essence } 

Ginger Essence f 

Orange Flower Water J 

Gentian Tincture 1 

Water 3j 

10 lb. 

28. Malt Lemonade 

Caramel 4 lb. 

Water , 2£ " 

Foam Essence 1 " 

Citric Acid Solution } " 

Mix, and add 

Malt Essence 1 J " 

Honey Lemonade Essence 2 oz. 

Carob Tincture 1 4 " 

10 lb. 

29. Mead Lemonade 

Caramel 6 lb. 

Malt Essence 2 " 

Hop Essence 8 oz. 

Gentian Tincture 10 " 

Citric Acid Solution 12 " 

Honey Lemonade Essence 2 " 

foIK 
30. Dark Beer Lemonade (Munchener) 

Caramel lb. 

Foam Essence 1| " 

Malt Essence 1 " 

Citric Acid Solution 1 " 

Gentian Tincture 3 oz. 

Hop Essence 3 " 

Honey Lemonade Essence ! 

Peach Essence _J " 

10 lb. 



196 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

31. Light Beer Lemonade (Pilsener) 

Caramel 3 lb. 

Foam Essence 11 " 

Malt Essence 1 " 

Citric Acid Solution 1 1 " 

Hop Essence i " 

Water 3 " 

10 lb. 

(e) Various Fancy Lemonades 

32. Ambrosia Lemonade 

Vanilla Essence 4 os. 

Strawberry Essence 4 " 

Raspberry Essence 8 " 

lib. 

33. Bicyclist Lemonade 

Peppermint Oil (Mitcham's) i dr. 

Alcohol 2 oi. 

Imperial Lemonade Essence 14 ^ 

1 lb. 

34. Crystal Spring (for Colorless Lemonades) 

Black Currant Distillate 6 os. 

Lemon Essence 10 " 

lib. 

35. Imperial Lemonade 

Currant Essence 1 J os. 

Peach Essence 2f " 

Orange Essence 12 ^_ 

1 lb. 

36. Marchpane Lemonade 

Apricot Essence 1} os. 

Peach Essence 2 J " 

Raspberry Essence 2 J " 

Coffee Essence 2} " 

Cacao Essence 3 

Wine Distillate 4 

lib. 

37. Maraschino Lemonade 

Rose Lemonade Essence 1 os. 

Cinnamon Tincture 1 " 

Knnpberry Essence 3 " 

Wine Distillate 6J " 

Bitter Almond Water 41 " 

1 lb. 



sox-Aiixracu: iets^.^** 




in the proportion of 10 ea. j»sr oiIiul if -ttm 

40. law Ij3».*_t3B £irx»- 

Tartarie Acid Sofanke -^ : 

Foam Eaaenee . . 

Orange- yellow Cokcc* SrjfBZrjL 

Soluble Ferric Onde. 5»«aaMa« ■ t 

Water ■ ■ -. i 

Fruit Essence (RupbeR?. Pan. n>. 

The iron content is about ftJfMF~- r.c- war- u*«.- ■.. ,;-■.•_■ 
grain per 12-OZ. bottle. 

Instead of the above-metiiorjw; =-.c !rxi^rjxi- 7 jl > .■ ■ 
lactate may be taken. 

(g) Lactic Acid lowtta 

41. For these any desired eamaK z&j '-* _-»r: 7"> 7/. - ■ 
is used only in the form of an extract. «rr«y 1 '. ."-. -j? w-.j— . -.r ...... 

3 lb. lactic acid, 5 lb. water and 2 lb. <£ -.i* -i««_-*n •**-..■• ; 

of the extract being used per gallon of •yT-- r . ~7'Ji iri'. v.. 

beverages are usually colorless. 

rTOrT-ALCOHOUC BEVEKAGES 

It is not the object of the non-alcohol:'- tjercruK i.vri'rtry v, 
include all the material offered by the beverage iii&iiuf&?v.:ririg 
industry; it, however, includes imitation liqueur*, puiir-h's, 
wines and beers. The value of the genuine liqueurs depend* upon 
their alcoholic content, whether directly added or resulting from 
fermentation processes. The purpose of the liqueurs is to stimu- 
late the appetite and digestion, and this stimulation is due ex- 
clusively to the alcohol present. Since artificial liqueur essen' 



198 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

possess neither stimulant nor appetizing properties, non-alcoholic 
liqueurs made from them really have no good reason for their 
existence. At most non-alcoholic fruit liqueurs may be recom- 
mended as refreshing additions to water, carbonated water or 
milk. For this purpose all kinds of fruit flavors are suitable, 
and they really constitute only lemonade syrups. 

NON-ALCOHOLIC FRUIT FLAVOR 

Lemonade Essence (any kind) 2 oz. 

Citric Acid Solution (1:1) 1 " 

Sugar Syrup (60%) to make 1 gal. 

A number of other imitation non-alcoholic beverages may be 
made with the aid of liqueur essences provided these are soluble 
in water, e.g., anisette, curagao, maraschino, etc. (see Essences of 
the Alcohol Industry). 

The so-called non-alcoholic bitters have proved to be failures, 
because they never fulfill their purpose. Should it be desired to 
make them, however, a rather large quantity must be employed 
in order to keep within the alcohol limit. For this purpose 2 lb. 
of any desired bitters essence are diluted with 5 lb. syrup and 4 lb. 
water, and the mixture is evaporated down to 10 lb. with constant 
stirring, in order to reduce the alcohol content. The concentrate 
is then filtered, and used in the proportion of 1 pint per gallon. 

Non-Alcoholic Punch Essences 

The effect of non-alcoholic hot beverages on the taste results from 
the employment of fine brandies or artificial brandy essences, but 
the beverages must be taken hot. 

The following formulas give the composition of the so-called 
non-alcoholic punch extracts, and afford essences of which 2 oz. 
are used per gallon of syrup. One part of the finished punch 
syrup is to be mixed with 3 to 4 parts of hot water. If it is desired 
to impart a wine-like character to the beverages, the 'ordinary 
sugar syrup is replaced by cherry syrup. 

1. Arrak Punch Essence 

Arrak Essence 2 oi. 

Genuine Arrak 1 J " 

Lemon Essence 1 " 

Vanilla Essence t J " 

Citric Acid Solation. J # " 

Water 10| " 

TUT. 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 199 

2. Claret Punch Essence 

Claret Essence 2 oz. 

Rum Essence 1J " 

Arrak Essence 2 " 

Vanilla Essence 1 " 

Jamaica Rum 2 " 

Citric Acid Solution 1} " 

Cherry Juice " 6j " 

1 lb. 

3. Coffee Punch Essence 

Coffee Essence 4 oz. 

Arrak, Genuine 11 

Port Wine Essence J 

Cinnamon Tincture i 

Vanilla Essence 1 

Orange Essence 11 

Lemon Essence 1 

Citric Acid Solution 1 " 

Caramel Solution (1:1) 7 " 

1 lb. 

4. Cpgnac Punch Essence 

White Wine Essence 4 oz 

Genuine Cognac 2 j " 

Lemon Essence 1 " 

Vanilla Essence * " 



<< 
n 

<< 



4 

<4 



Citric Acid Solution } 

Water 8 "_ 

1 "lb" 
5. Fruit Punch Essence 

The various fruits adapted for this are the pineapple, orange, 
lemon, strawberry, mandarin and peach. 

Lemonade Essence (any) 6} oz. 

Arrak Essence 1 } " 

Citric Acid 1J " 

Water 5 " 

Genuine Arrak lj " 

1 lb. 

6. Mulled Punch Essence 

Red Wine Essence 3 oz. 

Raspberry Essence 2 " 

Cinnamon Tincture 1 " 

Clove Tincture 1 i " 

Orange Essence 2 " 

Citric Acid Solution 1} " 

Cherry Juice 6 l- _ 

1 lb. 



200 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



7. Imperial Punch Essence 

Tea Essence 4 oz. 

Genuine Arrak 1 J " 

Red Wine Essence J " 

Vanilla Essence i " 

Citric Acid Solution 1 " 

Cherry Juice 8j " 

1 lb. 

8. Rum Punch Essence 

Rum Essence 3| oz. 

Jamaica Rum li " 

Lemon Essence 1 " 

Vanilla Essence i " 

Citric Acid Solution 1 J " 

Caramel Solution (1:1) 8 " 

1 lb. 

9. Swedish Punch Essence 

Arrak Essence 2 oz. 

White Wine Essence 2 " 

Genuine Arrak 2 " 

Orange Essence 1 " 

Water 9 " 

lib. 

NON-ALCOHOLIC BEERS AND WINES 

These designations, strictly speaking, are absurd, because beer 
and wine are products of alcoholic fermentation, and only thereby 
is the characteristic taste developed, a taste which is originally 
present neither in the grape juice nor in the malt mash. In 
preparing such non-alcoholic beverages, therefore, the alcohol 
must be removed by distillation. In doing this, however, all 
volatile flavoring matters pass over with the distillate, and the 
beverage is valueless so far as its taste is concerned. To render 
the taste more acceptable, the alcohol lost is replaced by a more 
or less concentrated syrup, and lastly, in order to render the bev- 
erage stable, the latter must be sterilized. Moreover, however 
desirable it may be to supply the public with non-alcoholic bever- 
ages, there is practically no demand for them. 

A so-called non-alcoholic beer has also been made by boiling 
malt and hops, filtering the extract, sterilizing and then charging 
with carbon dioxide gas. However, this beverage does not meet 



NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 



201 



the requirements demanded for general use, so that the lemon- 
ade-like beverages having a wine or beer flavor are to be pre- 
ferred. 



THE CONTENT OF ACID IN EXTRACTS AND SYRUPS FOR 
LEMONADES, AND THEIR USUAL COLORING 

The numbers give the pounds of dissolved acid to be employed 
for 10 lb. lemonade extract 5 : 100, = 10 oz. to a gallon syrup, 
and also how many ounces are necessary for 1 gallon syrup. 

The acids (citric or tartaric acid) are used as solution 1:1. 
The colors may be used in any concentration or tint as usual. 

(a) Fruit Lemonades 



Sorts. 


Add 
solu- 
tion. 


Color. 


Sorts. 


Add 
solu- 
tion. 


Color. 


Agnote. ,..-.. 


2 
3 
2 

U 

2 

2 

2} 

2 

2 

2* 

11 
2 

U 
2 

U 
2» 
2* 
21 


red 

caramel 

yellow 
•• 

red 
dark-red 

red 

•1 

•i 
«• 

colorless 

red 

dark-red 

light-yellow 

yellow 
it 

i* 

•« 


Melon 


2 
2 

2J 

2 

21 

2 

2 

U 

1} 

2 


yellow 


Apple 


Mirabelle 

Mossberry 


<• 


Apricot 


red 


Banana ... 


Mulberry 


light-red 


Berberry 


Orange, bitter 

Orange, sweet 

Peach 


orange 


Bilberry, red 


•• 
<« 


Blackberry 


Pear 


light-yellow 


Cherry 


Pineapple 


ti ti 


Cranberry 


Plum 


vftllow 


Cucumber 


| Pomegranate 

, Quince 

Raspberry 


11 trraiiAriinn 


Currant 


2 

n 

2 
2 
H 
2 


yellow 


Elderberry 


red 


Gooseberry 


Green Guge 


yellow 




Sorbberrv 


orange 


Lemon 


Strawberry 


red 


Lime. 


Tangerine 


orange 


Lime Juice and Soda 













(6) Lemonades with the Taste of Other Plant Parts 



Sorts. 



Bitter Almond 

Celery 

Chocolate 

Cacao 

Coffee 

Ginger 

Honey 

Hop 

Cola Nut 



Add 
solu- 
tion. 



1) 

U 

1 

1 

1 

1* 
1 

H 
2 



Color. 



colorless 
it 

dark-brown 
ii 

•i 

light-yellow 

yellow 

ii 

brown 



Sorts. 



Malt 

Rhubarb... 

Rose 

Sarsaparilla 

Tea 

Vanilla 

Violet 

Woodruff... 



Add 
solu- 
tion. 



Color. 



brown 

light-green 

light-rose 

light-yellow 

brown 



*• 



light-yellow 
green 



202 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



(c) Fancy Lemonades 



Form- 
ula 
No. 



32 

13 

14 
30 
31 

33 
17 
18 
19 
20 
7 
21 
25 



34 
15 
27 

1 



Sorts. 



Ambrosia 

Apple Cider 

Apricot Cider 
Beer, dark 
Beer, light 

Bicyclist 

Champagne 

Civilsekt 

Jacqueron 

Veuve Cliquot. 

Fruit Cup 

Claret Lemonade 
Claret Punch 

Lemonade 
Cold Duck 

Crystal Spring . . . 
Currant Cider . . . 
Ginger Beer 

Grenadine 



Acid 
solu- 
tion. 



2) 



1 
1 

1* 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

li 

1 



2 
2 
1 



Color. 



red 

light- 
yellow 
yellow 
brown 
yellow 

colorless 



red 
red 

colorless 

red 
light- 
yellow 
red 



Form- 
ula 
No. 



2 

35 
40 

3 
28 
37 
36 

4 

29 
41 



22 
23 

5 
38 
16 

8 

26 

6 
39 
24 



Sorts. 



Grosseille 

Imperial 

Iron Lemonade. 

Limetta 

Malt 

Maraschino 

Marchpane 

Messina FVuiU. 

Mead 

Milk 

Muscade Wine.. 

Nectar 

Nectarine 

Oriental 

Peach Cider 

Swedish Fruit 

Cup 
Swedish Punch 

Lemonade 

TuttiFrutti 

Victoria , 

White Wine 



Acid 
solu- 
tion. 



2 

1* 

2 

2 

1 

1 

U 
2 

1* 
(Lac- 
tic 
Acid) 

1* 

1* 

2 

2 

2 



2 
2 
2 



Color. 



** 



brown 

orange 

brown 

colorless 

yellow 

orange 

yellow 

colorless 



yellow 

«» 

*• 

red 
orange 

yellow 



red 
*• 



PART V 

THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, LIQUEURS, 
SPIRITS AND OTHER ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

GENERAL METHODS OF DISTILLERY PRACTICE 

Kinds of Spirits (industrial and genuine spirits). 

Employment of Vegetable Products. 

Methods of Extracting (Digestion, Maceration and Percolation). 

Employment of Volatile Oils. 

Distillation of Drugs for Spirits. 

Compounded Volatile Oils (Liqueur Oils). 

Composition of Alcoholic Beverages. 

Storage and Ageing of Liquors. 

Special Manufacture of Essences for Brandies, Liquors 

and Liqueurs 

L ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES WITH PREDOMINANT TASTE OF 

VOLATILE FLAVORS 

(a) Citrus Fruits 

1. Barbadoes Liqueur. 7. Spiced Lemon Liqueur. 

2. Bergamot. 8. Bitter Orange Liqueur. 

3. Bishop Liqueur. 9. Bitter Orange. 

4. Curacao, Dutch. 10. Sweet Orange Liqueur. 

5. " French. 11. Mandarin Liqueur. 

6. Lemon Liqueur. 

Compounded Liquor Oils: 

12. Bergamot. 16. Spiced Lemon. 

13. Curacao, Dutch. 17. Orange, Bitter. 

14. " French. 18. " Sweet. 

15. Lemon. 19. Mandarin. 

(6) Weak Spices with Volatile Character only 

Anise: 27. Anisette Liqueur Oil, Dutch. 

20. Anise Essence. 28. " " " French. 

21. Anise Essence. 29. Rostopschin " ". 

22. Anisette, Dutch. „ 

23. " French. CamuM V : 

24. Fennel Essence. 30. Caraway Essence. 

25. Rostopschin Essence. 31. " Essence. 

26. Star Anise Essence. 32. Double Caraway Essence. 

203 





Fio. 32. 

Riifjwiiin ( 'aruway Essence (AI- 

Caraway Liqueur Oil. 
Double Caraway Liqueur Oil. 
Rostopschin " " . 

Crv.s|;i]li/i(i Caraway Liqueur. 

Juniper: 
Juniper Essence. 

" Essence. 
Geneva. Dutch. 
Gin, Irish (Old Tom). 



42. Steinhacgcr Essence. 

43. Geneva Liqueur Oil. 

44. Juniper " " . 

45. Sleiiihaeger " " , 

46. Bairn Mint Essence. 

47. Peppermint Essence. 

48. Double Peppermint Essence, 

49. Halm Mint Liqueur Oil. 

50. Peppermint " " . 



(c) Stronger Spices, partly with Ertrael Aroma 



Absinthe: 
Absinthe, Swiss. 

" Essence, French. 

" German. 



54. Hyssop Essence. 

55. Liqueur Oil, French. 

56. " " German. 

57. " " Swisa. 



Calamus: 

58. Calamus Distillate. 

59. " Essence. 
00. Calmuser Essence. 
61. Calamus liqueur Oil. 



62. 
63. 
64. 



Celery: 
Celery Essence. 



u 



it 



JLBHBHOC 

Liqueur OO. 



70. 

71. 

72. 
73. 
74. 
75. 



76. 



Cuffumion; 

65. Cinnamon Knannoa. 

66. " " white. 

67. " Flower Essence. 77. 

68. " liqueur Oil. 78. 

Composition of Liqueurs with Predominant 



Cloves: 

Clove Essence. 
Rosoglio Essence. 
Rosoglio Liqueur Oil. 

Ginger: 

Ginger Essence from Root. 

" Oils. 
Stomachic Ginger Essence. 
Ginger Liqueur Oil. 

Spices: 

Spice Liqueur Oil. 

Vanilla: 

Vanilla Essence, Genuine. 
Vanillin Essence. 

Flavor. 



XL THE EMPLOYMENT OF FRESH FRUITS FOR SPIRITS AND 

LIQUEURS 

Fruit liqueurs and Ratafias. 

Genuine Fruit Spirits and their Imitations. 



Cherry: 

1. Cherry Juice and Syrup. 

2. Genuine Cherry Brandy. 

3. Cherry Ratafia. 

4. Cherry Fruit liqueur. 

5. " Brandy liqueur. 

6. Maraschino di Zara. 

7. " di Casalo. 



8. Genuine Cherry Flavor. 

9. Artificial Agriot Brandy. 

10. " Cherry Brandy. 

11. " Maraschino Essence. 

12. " " Zara type. 

13. Cherry Liqueur Essence. 

14. Spiced Cherry Essence. 

Plum: 

15. Artificial Plum Brandy. 

16. " Sliwowitz. 

17. La Prunelle. 

(6) Kernel Fruits 

32. Imperial Pear Essence. 

33. Muscade 



(a) Stone Fruits 

Bitter Almond Character: 

18. Apricot Essence. 

19. Bitter Almond Essence. 

20. Almond Essence. 

21. Macaroon Essence. 

22. Persico Essence. 

23. Peach Essence. 

Walnut: 

24. Walnut Essence from Unripe Nuts. 
26. " " Artificial. 

Liqueur Oils: 

26. Spiced Cherry. 

27. Nalewka. 

28. Maraschino. 

29. Sliwowitz. 

30. Persico. 

31. Walnut. 



a 



<< 



34. Raspberry Distillate. 

&5. - " Flavor from Juice. 



(c) Berries 

36. Raspberry Liqueur. 

37. " Table Liqueur. 
205 



38. Bilberry Essence, black Supplement: 

39. " " red. 41. Banana Essence. 

40. Wild-fruit Composition. 42. Pineapple Essence. 
Composition of Liqueurs with Fruit Taste. 

m. SPIRITS WITH LEADING EXTRACTIVE FLAVOR 

(a) Woodruff 

1. Woodruff Essence, Genuine. 

2. " " Artificial. 

(6) Stimulants 

7. Coffee Essence, brown. 

8. " " colorless. 

9. Cola Nut Essence. 
10. Tea Essence. 



3. Coca Leaf Essence. 

4. Cacao Essence, brown. 

5. " " colorless. 

6. Chocolate Essence. 

Composition of Liqueurs with leading Extractive Flavor. 

IV. AROMATIC WATERS 

Volatile Oils as Raw Materials. 
Vegetable Distillates from Drugs. 
Mixed Essences. 

(a) From 

1. Alkermes. 

2. Captain Water. 

3. Danzig Cordial. 

4. Cordial Medoc. 

5. Danzig Gold Water. 

6. Munich Railway Liqueur. 

7. Riga Balsam. 

8. Sergeant Liqueur. 

9. Water Cress Liqueur. 



20. Danzig Golden Water. 



Volatile OUe. 

French Specialties: 

10. Eau Celeste. 

11. " dee Favorites. 

12. " delaC6te. 

13. Parfait d' Amour. 

Bitter Specialties: 

14. Bavarian Herb Liqueur. 

15. Berlin Double Bitter. 

16. Danzig Cordial Drops. 

17. Elixir de Spaa. 

18. Kontuszowka. 

19. White Stomach Water. 

(6) Vegetable Distillates 

27. Eau de Fantaisie. 



21. " Baal Water. 


28. 


" d'Orient (Eskubak). 


22 Carmelite Water. 


29. 


" de Paradise. 


23. Christophelet. 


30. 


" " Portugal 


24 Danzig Cordial. 


31. 


" " Sultan. 


French Specialties: 


32. 
33. 


" Divine. 

" Parfait d' Amour. 


25. Eau de Batave. 




• 


26. " " Bouquet. 




- 




Bitter Specialt 


ies: 


34. Bertram Bitters. 


37. 


Danzig Cordial 


35. Brahma Bitters. 


38. 


Greek Bitters. 


36. Carminative Liqueur. 


39. 


KrambambulL 




206 





(c) Essences fot 


Aromatic Waters 


40. Bulgarian Maatic |Rnki). 


42. Rose Liqueur. 


41. Turkish " 


43. Violet Liqueur. 


44. Rose Liqueur Oil. 


Table of Composition of Aromatic Waters. 


V. BITTER LIQUEURS WITH EXTRACTIVE TASTE 


General Method of Extracting Drugs. 




Employment of Volatile Oils. 




Soluliou of Volatile Oils. 




Extraction of Drugs with Employment of Oils. 


Compounded Bitter Liqueur Oils. 




(a) Aromatic BiUers Ettenca 


From Drugs Only: 


14. Royal Bitters. 


1. Altvater Liqueur. 


15. Sarepta Bitters. 


2. Angelica Essence. 


16. Stonsdorf Bitters. 


3. Aromntique. 


17. Usquebaugh. 


4. Carlsbad Bitters, 


From Drugs and Oils: 


5. Convent Bitters. 


18. Benedictine. 


6. Half om Half. 

7. Hartz Bitters. 


19. Carpathian Bitten. 

20. Chartreuse. 


8. Hunt Bitters. 


21. English Bitters. 


9. Italian Bitters. 


22. Fine Bitters. 


10. Iva Bitters. 

11. Kischineff Bitters. 


23. Moreau Liqueur. 

24. Spanish Bitters. 


12. MaJakoff. 
!3. Mogadore. 


25. Spice Bitters. 


(6) Stomach BiUers 


From Drugs Only: 


36. Malta Knights' Bitters. 


26. Aquavita. 

27. Boonecamp of Maag Bitters. 

28. Carminative Bitters. 


37. Muscade Bitters. 

38. Old Swedish Bitters. 
3fl. Tonic Bitters. 


29. Cholera Bitters. 


From Drugs and Oil*: 


30. Doctor Bitters. 


40. Universal Bitters. 


31. Electoral Bitters, 


41. Alpine Herbs Bitters. 


32. Fernet Branca, 


42. Bavarian Herbs Bitters. 


33. Gruiten Absynth. 


13. Dutch Stomach Bitters. 


34. Ingredient Bitters. 


44. Stomach Bitters. 


35. Kujawian Stomach Drops. 


45. Swiss Herb Stomachic Bitters. 


(c) Strong BiUers 


From Drugs Only: 


52. Helgoland Bitter*. 


46. Angostura Bitters. 


53. Hop Bitters. , 


47. Beer Bitters. 


6* In.lian Bitters. 


45. Capuchin Bitters. 


■ : tlcre. 


40. Daubitx Bitters. 


' itt ers. 


50. Elixir ad Longam Vitam. 


Bi 


51. Hamburg Bitters. 





59. Calisaya Bitters. 

60. Root Bitters. 

61. Seamen Bitters. 

62. Samaritan Bitters. 



66. Aromatique. 

67. Benedictine. 

68. Carlsbad Bitters. 

69. Chartreuse. 

70. Cholera Bitters. 

71. Electoral Bitters. 



From Drugs and Oils: 

63. Black Bitters. 

64. Giant Bitters. 

65. Green Bitters. 

(d) Compound Liqueur Oils 

72. English Bitters. 

73. Fine Bitters. 

74. Hunt Bitters. 

75. Spanish Bitters. 

76. Swiss Alpine Herb Bitters. 

77. Universal Bitters. 



Table of Composition of Bitter Liqueurs. 

VI. TYPES AND IMITATIONS OF GENUINE BRANDIES 



(a) Grain Liquors 

1. Nordhausen Type. 

2. Silesian Corn Spice. 

3. Westphalian Type. 

4. Wheat Corn Type. 

5. Aquavit Liquor Oil. 

6. Whisky Type. 

(6) Rum 

7. Rum Ether, Simple. 

8. Concentrated Rum Ether. 

9. Rum Flavor. 

10. Base for Artificial Rum, Jamaica 

Type. 

11. Base for Common Rum. 

12. Artificial Rum. 



(c) Arrac 

13. Arrac Flavor. 

14. Base for Artificial Arrac, Batavia. 

15. " " " " Goa. 

16. Artificial Arrac. 

(d) Cognac 

17. Cognac Type (Charente). 

Typage. 
Syrupage. 
Syrup Charentais. 

18. Cognac from Syrup Charentais. 

19. Cut Cognac. 

20. Base for Cut Cognac. 

21. Artificial Cognac Essence. 

22. Egg Cognac. 

23. Imitation Egg Cognac. 



(e) Supplement: Stomachic Wines 
24. Wormwood Wine (Vermouth). 



VTI. ALCOHOLIC HOT DRINKS 

1. Spice Flavor for Punch. 

(a) With Taste of Genuine Liquors. 

2. Grog Extract; Arrac, Cognac 

or Rum. 

3. Grog Extract; from artificial 

Brandy. 

4. Punch Extract; Arrac, Cognac 

or Rum. 

5. Punch Extract; from artificial 

Brandy. 

6. Toddy Extract from Whisky. 

7. Warm Corn Extract. 

208 



8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 



(GROG AND PUNCHES) 

(b) Fruit Punches 
Lemon, Orange and Pineapple. 

(c) Fancy Punches 

Coffee or Tea Punch. 

Milk Punch. 

Royal Punch. 

Russian Kaskantschi Punch. 

Swedish Punch. 



(rf) Wint Punches 

14. Bishop. 

15. Burgundy Punch. 

16. Cardinal. 

17. Claret Punch. 

18. Glowing Wine Punch. 



(e) Imitation Wine Punches 

21. Flavor Essence for Glow- 

ing Punch. 

22. Glowing Punch. 



i 







THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, LIQUEURS, 
SPIRITS AND OTHER ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

KINDS OF SPIRITS (INDUSTRIAL AND GENUINE SPIRITS) 



Liquor in general, as used for drinking purposes, is a liquid 
manufactured by distilling fermented vegetable substances con- 
taining sugar, or starch transformed into fermentable sugar, or 
other similar substances. The result of the fermentation by the 
yeast organism is the splitting up of sugar into alcohol and carbon 
dioxide, with the formation also of by-products such as glycerin, 
volatile homologues of alcohol, fusel oil and some less important 
substances. 

The raw spirit so obtained is purified, primarily because the 
first distillate is not strong in alcohol and must be rectified to a 
higher alcoholic strength, and secondly, because the impurities 
must be removed, usually by means of charcoal. In the rectifica- 
tion the lower-boiling portions, as aldehydes, are separated, and 
the fusel oil is removed by filtration through charcoal. Pure 
alcohol has of itself no special flavor, but it has a flavor in those 
cases where a natural content of higher alcohols is peculiar to 
certain kinds, as in the genuine brandies, like grain brandy, fruit 
brandy or wine brandy, rum, etc. The quality of industrial 
spirit depends upon the content or absence of fusel oil, and for 
purposes of the distiller that containing the least quantity of such 
fusel oil is preferred. 

The genuine brandies, as grain spirit, fruit spirit, arrac, wine 
brandy and rum, are those which are named according to the 
special raw materials from which they are made; thus industrial 
spirit is made especially from potatoes, maize or. in the rarer 
cases, from wood. Corn whisky (grain whisky) is distilled from 
mashed and fermented rye, wheat, barley or even buckwheat. 
Its valuable constituents are distinct fusel oils with an agreeable 
taste. Grain liquors are drunk as delivered from the still, or 
aromatized. 



212 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



The content of sugar of every fruit makes the latter suited 
fermentation, and in cases of high sugar content, as in chei 
and plums, it is quite sufficient. In cases where there is ins 
cient sugar, the manufacture would not pay the expenses, th 




Phi. 33. Rectifying apparatus for alcohol, brandies, etc 

fore it is allowable to add sugar to the mash to i 
fermentable 1 sugar before fermenting and distilling. Such f 
spirits Are highly esteemed for beverages, and also uuw 
» kinds of liqueurs. Gentian root a 
adapted for the manufacture of b 




THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 

their content of sugar. The strength of the alcohol varies, but 
it is usually desired to be about 5 to 7° underproof on the aver- 
age. If higher degrees are manufactured, the dilution to lower 
degrees is allowed by adding distilled water. 

Rum is a product of the fermentation of by-products of the 
sugar-cane industry. However, in the countries of production 
some unknown drugs are added to develop the special type of 
genuine rum, as it would be impossible to manufacture rum from 
cane sugar only. The product of distillation is colorless, but it 
is colored by caramel (burnt sugar), and stored for a long time 
for ageing purposes. 

Arrac is made chiefly from the fermented juice of the palm, 
which yields most juice when the flower stems are cut. A juice 
rich in sugar is thus obtained, and on fermentation yields a product 
called "Toddy"; this when distilled, is arrac. Sometimes rice 
mash is added, and certain vegetables to give the distillate the 
right type desired. 

A product particularly well liked is that, obtained by distilling 
wine, the genuine mine brandy, the raw material for Cognac. 
Its quality depends upon the quality of the wine itself. 

The distillation products of such fermentation from various 
raw materials are called genuine brandies. If diluted with spirits 
of any other origin, generally with industrial spirit, the mixture 
must be declared as "cut." Any addition of foreign flavoring 
sulistanccs, as essences, volatile oils or ethers, are either pro- 
hibited, or the products must be declared as artificial. In cases 
where the natural products are imitated by essences, the products 
of such imitations must also be declared as artificial. 

I THE EMPLOYMENT OF VEGETABLE PRODUCTS 

As pointed out, pure spirit has no peculiar odor or taste other 
than those of the alcohol itself. Any particular taste desired 
must l>e imparted to the alcohol, and for this purpose vegetables, 
or at least products of the vegetable kingdom, as volatile oils, 
are used. 

The commonly so-called "cold distillation" consists in the ex- 
traction of vegetable substances without distillation by treatment 
with alcohol, or by dissolving volatile oils in alcohol, which prod- 
ucts are employed to give the spirit the peculiar simple or 
pound taste. 



com- 






214 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

On the other hand the "warm distillation" is employed by really 
distilling vegetable substances. Which kind of distillation is to be 
preferred depends upon the nature of the raw materials, because 
many vegetable substances are to be used only because of their 
extractive matter, while others are valuable because of the vola- 
tile flavors they contaia. 

METHODS OF EXTRACTION 

The extractive matters of vegetables are formed in the plant 
juice of the living plant, and when the plant parts arc dried and 
employed as drugs, the extractive matters when desired must be 
dissolved out by a suitable medium, and as alcohol is a necessary 
ingredient of liquors, it is the best medium for extraction. 

The solubility of the various extractive matters differs. Most 
of them are soluble in the cold. Of course the solubility depends 
upon the heat, and is increased by this factor. Cold extraction 
is called maceration; the hot extraction digestion. 

The advantage of the digestion is the shorter time required for 
solution, but, on the other hand, substances soluble when hot arc 
often precipitated out on cooling; and often unnecessary sub- 
stances arc obtained in solutions made with heat which were 
better absent, and which require subsequent removal. 

For these reasons cold solution is to be preferred to prevent 
any later cloudiness; moreover, heat often adversely affects the 
fineness of some aromatic matters, and hence the cold extracts 
are usually the finer as to taste. 

In maceration, which is the older method, the drugs are covered 
with alcohol of any desired dilution and allowed to stand for sonic 
time with frequeut stirring, and are then expressed. Digestion 
(see Fig. 34) takes place when the drugs are warmed with the 
menstruum for some time at 135° F., and this is repeated once or 
twice on the following days; then the liquid is pressed off. In 
both cases the result is a tincture of more or less concentration, 
according to the character of the drugs and the menstruum. 
Usually tinctures are made from 1 part drug to 5 parts of alco- 
holic menstruum. 

The better method is that of percolation (see Fig. 35), and in all 
formulas calling for extraction this is to lie understood as effected 
by percolation. The method allows the exhaustion of the material 
to the utmost with but a minimum loss of alcohol. The concen- 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 

ration of the percolated products can be increased, and reaches 
its highest extent in the fluid extract};, of which 1 part by weight 
represents 1 part by weight of the drugs treated. For essences 




this concentration is not necessary, and usually 1 part of drug 
made to represent 2 parts of extract or essence suffices. In this 
method the ground drugs are packed in a percolator and moistened 






MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

with alcohol. After three days the percolation is started, addii 
sufficient of the desired menstruum, and collecting the first run 
percolate, which contains nearly all of the soluble substauces, ai 
which constitutes about 85% of the total amount of the expect* 
extract. The percolation is then contiuued, but now using 
to obtain a secondary percolate which is then evaporated 



IMyL 








Fio. 36. Apparatus for distilling UMi h(ill oils and « 

distilled. For instance if 10 lb. drugs are percolated with, f 
about 25 lb. of diluted alcohol the result will be 17 lb. first i 
colate and 6 lb. secondary percolate, the latter being then evt _ 
rated down to 3 lb. and mixed with the first percolate to make 
total of 20 lb. 



216 



MANUAL ] 




1 ESSENCE 1NDU! 



with alcohol. After three days the percolation is started, addii 
sufficient of the desired menstruum, and collecting the first run i 
percolate, which contains nearly all of the soluble substances, ar 
which constitutes airaut 85% of the total amount of the expect* 
extract. The percolation is then continued, but now using wate 
to obtain a secondary percolate which is then evaporated ( 







Fiq. 36. Apparatus for distilling essential oils and 



distilled. For instance if 10 lb. drugs are percolated with, sa; 
about 25 lb. of diluted alcohol the result will be 17 lb. first pel 
colate and 6 lb. secondary percolate, the latter being then evap< 
rated down to 3 lb. and mixed with the first percolate to e 
total of 20 lb. 



216 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



with alcohol. After three days the percolation is started, adding 
sufficient of the desired menstruum, and collecting the first run of 
percolate, which contains nearly all of the soluble substances, and 
which constitutes about 85% of the total amount of the expected 
extract. The percolation is then continued, but now using water, 
to obtain a secondary percolate which is then evaporated or 




Fio. 38. Apparatus fur distilling essential otje and essences. 

distilled. For instance if 10 lb. drugs are percolated with, sa; 
about 25 lb. of diluted alcohol the result will be 17 lb. first pe 
colate and 6 lb. secondary percolate, the latter being then evap" 
rated down to 3 lb. and mixed with the first percolate to make 
total of 20 lb. 



TIIE MANUFACTUKK OF LIQUORS, E1C. 



217 



Otherwise, after receiving the S5% Bret percolate, the Beoondftry 
percolate is placed in the still, and, after the addition of water, 
distilled until a residue of 15% results. In the above case 17 ll>. 
of first percolate are obtained; the secondary percolate is then 
distilled with sufficient water to yield 3 lb. of residue which is 
then mixed with the first percolate. The extract now contains 
also the most of the volatile constituents of the drugs besides the 
soluble extractive matters. 

EMPLOYMENT OF VOLATILE OILS 

To transfer the volatile flavors to beverages, the simplest 
method would appear to be to use the isolated volatile oils of 




Erich Walter). 

commerce, which will yield the same or even better service, in 
(Many cases, than the drugs themselves. As is well known, vola- 
tile oils consist of terpenes and special carriers of the taste. The 
latter are relatively easily soluble in diluted alcohol, while the 
terpenes cause cloudiness in beverages, hence it is l>est to remove 
the terpenes. Only in some cases does simple solution of volatile 



218 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

oils in alcohol suffice; the terpenes are partially separated, and 
collect in the form of oily drops which are filtered off. But the 
simple dissolving is not economical, because the terpenes are a 
better solvent of the flavors than is diluted alcohol. The oils 
are not exhausted, and therefore the distillation of volatile oils 
with alcohol is the most rational method. This is carried out as 
follows: The volatile oils, or a mixture of any of them, are dis- 
tilled into a Florence flask from which they are returned to the 
still by a return tube, and wherein the terpenes are separated; 
after the layer of terpenes no longer increases, the distillation is 
finished. The distillate contains no more terpenes, and is per- 
fectly soluble even in alcohol of low strength. The terpenes are 
worthless for flavoring. 

Instead of this method, the so-called terpeneless volatile oils 
are also used, because of their better solubility in low-proof alcohol. 
On account of the difference in their concentration, their employ- 
ment is quite different from that of the simple volatile oils. In 
some cases the isolated flavors, such as carvone from oil of caraway, 
and anethol from oil of anise seed, and others, are employed be- 
cause of their solubility. 

DISTILLATION OF DRUGS FOR SPIRITS 

Even though the employment of volatile oils is more convenient 
and simple, the distillation of drugs gives the finer results. The 
volatile oils represent the proper taste of the drugs, but they are 
often changed by the heat of the distillation; on the other hand, 
if the drugs arc distilled with alcohol the aromatic constituents 
are transferred more naturally, and therefore the so-called vege- 
table distillates arc preferred as to quality of yield, as, for instance, 
in aromatic waters. 

COMPOUNDED VOLATILE OILS (LIQUEUR OILS) 

Instead of essences some customers like highly concentrated 
products, and in this case the compounds made from volatile 
oils serve well. So far as the character of the taste permits the 
use of this method, formulas are given for such products, but it 
is of course impossible so far as extractive flavors are in question. 
On the other hand the compounds often serve to fortify any 
essence or liqueur. The use is the same as that of volatile oils 
in general. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 219 

THE COMPOSITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

The most important constituent of alcoholic beverages is 
the alcohol. Its strength depends upon the character of the bev- 
erage. It must be understood that some flavors first predominate 
when the alcohol is of a certain strength. In some cases the cost 
of the beverage depends upon the alcohol, because the latter is 
the most expensive constituent. In the tables to follow are 
given the strengths of alcohol usually employed. Although 
alcohol is the leading factor, it is advisable not to be too sparing 
with it, because it would be to the disadvantage of the beverage. 

Svgar is used to sweeten the liqueur, but in many cases sugar 
thickens the liqueurs, and therefore glucose is often employed, 
although it has less sweetening power. When sugar syrup is 
prescribed, the 60% solution is intended. 

The colors mentioned are those used as a rule, but they may lie 
varied according to custom or the individual taste. For brown 
color, the most predominant, burnt sugar (caramel) is used largely, 
as its taste is often welcome for rounding out (he taste of liqueurs. 

Some additions are often made so as to refine the taste, and for 
this fruit juices are often used, while arrac, rum and cognac are 
also employed, and the more so as essences are mostly prepared 
with the addition of some wine brandy. Some liqueurs are re- 
fined with wines to give them a fuller taste. 

The quantity of essences required is given at the head of each 
formula. 

On mixing alcohol with water a contraction iu volume occurs. 
The composition tables, calculated for 10 gallons, require the 

k employment of 10J gallons in all to afford the 10 gallons of com- 
plete beverage. 
The order in which the ingredients are to be mixed is as follows: 
Mix first the cold sugar syrup with the water, then add the alcohol 
and then the essence or the volatile oils dissolved in alcohol. 
Last of all add the refining preparations and the color. 

By some manufacturers so-called foundation liquors are used. 

Sugar syrup, water and alcohol arc mixed and stored. When 

used, the essences and color are added to make finished liqueurs. 

'he reason for this procedure is to age the mixture of sweetened 

spirit, but this is better effected by storing with the aroma 

led. 



220 



MANUAL HIK THK ESSKNUE INDUSTRY 



STORING AND AGEING LIQUORS 

Every freshly prepared mixture of aromatic substances lacks 
homogeneousness, and only after some time are the ingredients 
well mixed and fully blended. Storage is necessary in every 
case to round out the taste and to clear the beverages. Tannin 
appears to possess the power of hastening such ageing and im- 
proving the taste, and hence oak casks are best adapted for liquors. 
Extracts of drugs containing tannic acid, as of limousin wood, 
are often employed with success. For dark-colored liquors, 
about J lb. tincture of rhatnny (krameria) root per gallon is to be 
recommended. 

To clear the liquors storage is usually sufficient, but the clearing 
can be hastened by the addition of \ pint of skimmed milk. Where 
rapid clearing is desired filtration must be resorted to. 

Remark: In the formulas, alcohol of about 38° overproof is 
to lie understood unless otherwise stated. 

SPECIAL MANUFACTURE OF ESSENCES FOR BRANDIES, 
LIQUEURS AND LIQUORS 

I. Alcoholic Beverages with Predominant Taste of 
Volatile Flavors 

By this is to be understood the predominant flavor character- 
istic of the volatile flavoring constituents of the volatile oils, no 
matter by what method incorporated into the beverage. This 
is sometimes done by distilling the drugs, by dissolving the vola- 
tile oils, etc. Some, in spite of the predominant volatile character 
of the base, are based on extractive taste, or are at least partly 
dependent on it. The main taste is, of course, varied in the gi 
est manner by the addition of other flavors, yet in all cases a 
dominant type of taste is recognized by which these compoum 
are differentiated from other harmonious compounds in which tl 
individual constituents cannot be recognized off-hand, and 
which no one flavor will be recognizably predominant. 

(a) Citrus FruUs 

The flavor of the so-called citrus fruits (lemon, orange, lime, 

mandarin, etc.) is present in the form of volatile oil in the \. 

exclusively. The natural flavor is obtained from fresh p< 

because during drying it is largely volatilized, some being a 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 221 

resinificd. Besides the purely volatile flavor, some extractive 
matters are also present which are very bitter, and are desired in 
some compounds for the making of which dried peels are ordered. 
This is also the case with some of the following formulas, and a 
special method is employed with extracts from dried peels. In 
this case it is advisable to use the "expulpcd" peels, i.e., peels 
from which the inner white parenchyma has been removed by 
first scalding with hot water to soften it, and then scraping with 
suitable knives. 

Method A. — Distillates from Fresh Peels 
The peels of fresh fruits are employed immediately after peel- 
ing. Of the lemons and sweet and bitter oranges, the peels of 
green unripe fruits are to be preferred. Mandarins are peeled 
only with the hands. As far as genuine Curacao peels are con- 
cerned, they form the finest raw materia! for Curacao specialties. 
The following formula applies for all kinds of fresh peels; 8 lbs. 
fresh peels are distilled with 1A gallons alcohol and -i gallons water, 
using a Florence flask with return tulie to separate the terpenea. 
After this, the return tube is disconnected, 2 gallons of water 
are added to the still and 4 gallons distilled off. This is to be 
filtered clear with the aid of infusorial earth, and rectified to the 
Baal result of 10 lb. 

Method B. — Extract Essence from Fresh Peels 
These are used where the bitter taste of the peels is desired. 
8 lb. fresh peels are mixed with 2\ gallons alcohol of 20° overproof 
for 3 days, and then 8 lb. of extract are collected without express- 
ing. The total remainder is then placed in a still with 4 gallons 
water, and j gallon is distilled off, which, after filtration with in- 
fusorial earth, is rectified to 2 lb. which are mixed with the ex- 
tract to yield a final result of 10 lb. 

Method C. — Extract Essence from Dried Peeh 
Only peels from which the inner white parenchyma has been 
removed is to be employed. 5 lb. expulped peels are treated with 
2 gallons proof spirit for three days, then collect without express- 
ing 7j lb. extract. On the residue pour 2 gallons water, distil 
off \ gallon, filter this distillate with the aid of infusorial earth 
and rectify it to 2$ lb., which then mix with the extract to yield 
the total result of 10 lb. 



2 



3*aXTaL K* THE ES^XCE INDUSTRY 



— Mn.t:i:g j;on 



racz Esksix fr:oi Ek*ZUB 






i " 

i - 

2 - 



k WTCT 



• rts 






* - 



rssci :>1il 



i BhIjlMOT Es^EVTS: 



Fr:c V -.ii.rl'i l*j* r j I><cZLa">:ii 

C*I :£ N*r;e I ir. 

i>! :c Le-z-rc I i o*. 

C«l :c r>rrr%.->>: . 4 ~ 

Tjsac ■:£* are iiscd-ed. uanx :he 

Avr*r-~z. * . . ... ted 
Wiv: ! ~- 

for one h-:-jr. an i «C«ec:i2f J gal. dis- 
til!a:e. to wLijb \ gallon water is 
s-i Jed: this i? :hsn — :ered clear with 
infusorial ear:h. azii rec:i£ed after 
adding 1 pir.: genuine wine distillate 
to the amour.: of 9} lb.: then add 

Vanillin J dr. 

Amyl Acetate S " 

Alcohol 7} oi. 

Final result 10 lb. 

3. Bishop- Liqueur Essence 

(5 oz. per gallon) 

Extract Essence from Fresh Peels 

Mace J oz. 

Cardamon J '• 

Cloves 2} " 

Cinnamon Bark 4 •* 

Bitter Orange Fruits J lb. 

Fresh Sweet Orange Peek. . 3 " 
Fresh Green Bitter Orange 

Peels 4 " 

Method B. Final result 10 lb. 



4. Curacao Essence, Dutch 
5 oc per gallon) 

from Fresh Peek 

3 oi. 

Cmaamon Bark 5 " 

Fresh Sweet Orange Peeb. 3) lb. 
Curacao Peels (or 
eke bhter orange peel).. 4 " 
Method B. Final result 10 lb. 



(2 



i. Curacao Essence, French 
per gallon) 

from Drugs 

Cinnamon Bark 2 ox. 

Cloves 2 " 

Calamus Root 4 " 

4 " 



Bitter Orange Fruits. J lb. 

Sweet Orange Peel, Ex- 
pulped 1 " 

CWacaoPeeKExpulped.. 2f " 
Method C. 'Final result 10 lb. 

6. Lemon Liqueur Essence 
(5 ox. per gallon) 

Sweet Orange Distillate, 
Method A 2 lb. 

Lemon Extract Essence, 
Method B 3 " 

Lemon Distillate, Method 

A 5 " 

101b. 

7. Spiced Lemon* Liqueur Essence 

(5 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Coriander J dr. 

Oil of Mace 1 J oz. 

Dissolve in 

Alcohol 14} " 

then add 

Orange Flower Water 1 lb. 

Lemon Liquor Essence 
from fresh peels 8 



tt 



10 lb. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



223 



(t 



tt 



8. Bitter Orange Liqueur 

Essence 
' (5 oz. per gallon) 

From Fresh Peels 

Lemon Distillate, Method 
A 21b. 

Bitter Orange Extract Es- 
sence, Method B 3 " 

Bitter Orange Distillate, 

Method A 5 " 

101b. 

9. Bitter Orange Essence 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Extract Essence from Drugs 

Bitter Orange Fruits J lb. 

Sweet Orange Peels 2 

Bitter Orange Peels, Green 3 
Method C. Final result 10 lb. 

10. Sweet Orange Essence 

(5 oz. per gallon) 

Orange Flower Water 1 lb. 

Lemon Distillate, Method 

A 1 " 

Sweet Orange Extract, 

Method B 2 " 

Sweet Orange Distillate, 

Method A 6 " 

101b. 

11. Mandarin Liqueur Essence 
(5 oz. per gallon) 

From Fresh Fruit Peels 

Mandarin Extract Essence, 

Method B 1 lb. 

Mandarin Distillate, 

Method A '3 " 

Sweet Orange Distillate, 

Method A 5 " 

10 lb. 

Compounded Volatile Oils for Bev- 
erages with the Taste of Citrus Fruits. 

Employment: 1 oz. is sufficient for 
1 lb. essence, whereof 1 oz. is re- 
quired to flavor a gallon of the bev- 
erage. 



12. Compounded Oil for 
Bergamot Liqueur 

Oil of Neroli J dr. 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless.. 3} " 

Amyl Acetate | oz. 

Absolute Alcohol 1 

Oil of Bergamot 14 



it 



tt 



1 lb. 

13. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Curacao Liqueur, Dutch 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless. } dr. 

" Sweet Orange, " . I 

" Coriander 3} 

" Sweet Orange, " 6 " 

"Ginger 7 

" Cinnamon 14} 

" Calamus 1 oz. 

Absolute Alcohol 13 " 



«« 



u 



tt 



1 lb. 



14. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Curacao Liqueur, French 

Oil of Neroli ^dr. 

" " Sweet Orange, Ter- 
peneless A " 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless. 3 " 

" " Coriander 3} " 

" " Bitter Orange, Ter- 
peneless 6 " 

Oil of Calamus 11 " 

" " Cinnamon 1 oz. 

" "Cloves 1 

Absolute Alcohol 12} 



n 



tt 



1 lb. 

15. Compounded Liqueur Oil - 
for Lemon Liqueur 

Oil of Sweet Orange, Ter- 
peneless 1 dr. 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless 11 " 
Absolute Alcohol 15} oz. 

1 lb. 



224 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



16. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Spiced Lemon Liqueur 

Oil of Neroli J dr. 

" " Sweet Orange, Ter- 
peneless i " 

Oil of Coriander 5 " 

" " Mace 9 " 

" " Lemon, Terpeneless. 9 " 

Absolute Alcohol 14} oz. 

1 lb. 

17. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Bitter Orange Liqueur 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless. 1$ dr. 

" Bergamot 2$ 

" Bitter Orange, Ter- 
peneless 4 

Absolute Alcohol 15| oz. 

1 lb. 



H 



11 



M 



«« 



18. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Sweet Orange Liqueur 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless 1) dr. 
" " Sweet Orange, Ter- 
peneless 6i " 

Absolute Alcohol 15} ox. 

1 lb. 

19. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Mandarin Liqueur 

Oil of Sweet Orange, Ter- 
peneless i dr. 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless. 1} 
" Tangerine Terpene- 

6 

Absolute Alcohol 15} oz. 

1 lb. 



u 



u 



ti 



(b) Weakly Spiced Liqueurs. (Anise, Fennd, Caraway, Juniper 

and Peppermint) 

Beverages with the taste of these spices never contain extractive 
aromatics, and their taste is due solely to volatile oils. How- 
ever, it is advisable to distil the drugs themselves with alcohol 
to obtain essences having a more pronounced and pure taste than 
is afforded by volatile oils alone. For this purpose so-called vege- 
table distillates are used, which in general are manufactured by 
the following Method 1. 

For example let us take a vegetable distillate of anise seed. The 
weight of the drugs varies according to their spice content, but 
the quantity of the alcohol taken is always the same, and so is 
also the final result. 

Method 1 for Vegetable Distillates 
(Example: Anise Distillate, 5 oz. per gallon.) 

Anise Seed, crushed 40 lb. 

Alcohol, 17° underproof 15 gal. 

Distil for about 1 to 1 j hours, using a return tube with a Fk*-» 
ence flask, wherein the greater part of the terpenes are collected, 
while the alcoholic distillate returns to the still. After the ticf e 
mentioned, the distillation is interrupted and the Florence 
with the terpenes obtained as a by-product, is removed. 



THE MAXTFACTTEE OF LKjTOES, ETC. 225 

Now add about 10 gallons water to the still, distil off 15 gaBons 
and filter the dffftillit-f» with the aid of infusorial earth, because 
it will be cloudy, doe to some terpens cr sesquiterpenes not com- 
pletely removed; then rectify the dear filtrate to the final result 
of 10 phlegm This essence wiD not cloud alcohnfir liquids, even 
though of very low alcohol content., 

This distillate is used for liqueurs in the proportion of 5 ok. to a 
gallon. 

Another method for making essences by means of volatile oQs 
only is by distilling them according to the following Method 2. 
This will give better service than the simple solution of volatile 
oils in alcohol, because the terpenes are removed by this method 
and the taste wiD be finer. Such essences wiD not dood beverages 
with a low alcohol content. The following example also applies 
to essence of anise. The volatile oils wiD vary according to the 
different flavors, but the quantity of alcohol necessary is always 
the same. After the distillation is finished some alcohol is added 
to prevent any subsequent clouding. 

Method 2 for Essence from Volatile OOs 

(Example: Anise Essence, 1 oz. per gallon.) 

Oil of Lemon lot. 

" " Anise Seed (as Anethol) 7 " 

Distil with return tube and Florence flask with 

Alcohol J gal. 

Water 1 gal. 

The terpenes collecting in the Florence flask are removed after 
about one hour, after which there is distilled off J gallon distillate, 
which is diluted with } gallon water and filtered with the aid of 
infusorial earth to remove the residual cloudiness. 

Wine Distillate 1 pint 

is now added for refining purposes, and the whole rectified to 
yield 9J lb. to which further add 

Alcohol 1 lb. 

to prevent further clouding. Final result 10 lb. 

Remarks: In the case of anise alone it is unnecessary to cool 
below 77° F., because anethol solidifies at a lower temperature. 

The essences from essential oils are generally u««d in the pro- 
portion of 1 oz. to the gallon. 



226 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Anise Liqueurs 



« 



<« 



j& Anisjc Essence 

V^wa** Ifcrtillate (5 oz. pa- gallon; 
<V* dSw Method 1. 

it. Anise Essence 

$*v*t VvtotUe Oils (1 oz.per gallon) 
^jv *fcvvv Method 2. 

$* \\Uk*rrro Essence, Dutch 

I»>v*m Vv4ntUe Oils (1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil ^ A*fcrdainom l|dr. 

' " I'iunamon 2| 

' " Caraway 3J 

• •• Clovt* 3J " 

•• ,% U>moti 9 " 

- •• bVauel 13 " 

* " Star Anise 4 oz. 

^ \U*hoa2. Rectify to 9§ lb., then 

\ wulhu | dr 

vS*4* Kvvt Tincture 1 oz. 

tta*t>iviTv Sjurit 1 " 

V\vM 6 " 

*W iv*ufc 10 lb. 

\v Vs^ki'vu IChhknce, French 

Mv;u WutuV V>iU (I oz. |>er gallon) 

s V .m. v\ul»imuu 1 dr. 

M\uvt vtotnjp li " 

l.oiut*u 1J 

\'»muuuIw' 3 J 

k'K'w.vi. " 

'H.V V'Ai^v* 5J oz. 

I . A. M • 



24. Fennel Essence 

Vegetable Distillate (5 oz. per gallon) 

By Method 1. 

Coriander Seed 4 lb. 

Anise Seed 8" 

Fennel Seed 48 " 

Final result 10 gal. 

25. RosTOPScHiN Essence, 
Austrian Specialty 

From Volatile Oils (1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Coriander 8 J dr. 

Lemon 8§ " 

Cinnamon 1 oz. 

Cloves 1} " 

" Sweet Orange 1J " 

" Star Anise 3 " 

By Method 2. Rectify to 9* lb., then 
add 

Vanillin | dr. 

Ethyl Acetate 1 oz. 

Orris Root Tincture 3 

Alcohol 4 

Final result 10 lb. 



« 



<< 



« 



n 



u 



26. Star Anise (Badiane) 
Essence 

Vegetable Distillate (5 oz. per gallon) 

From 48 lb. Star Anise Seed by 
Method 1 to make 10 gal. 

Compounded Liqueur Oils for Anise 
Cordials 

Employment: 1 oz. is sufficient for 
1 lb. of essence, whereof 1 oz. is re- 
quired to flavor a gallon of beverage. 

27. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Anisette, Dutch 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless } dr. 

" Cardamom 3 J " 

" Cinnamon 6} " 

" " Cloves 9 " 

" " Caraway 9 " 

" " Fennel ljoz. 

" " Star Anise 13 " 

1 lb. 



<< 



(< 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 227 

28. Compounded Liqueur Oil Caraway Beverages 

for Anisette, French 

30. Caraway Essence 

"iS^STS Idr - Ve^ Distill (So, person) 

penelen I " ^ rom W ^' ^ arawa 3 r Seed by 

" " Cardamom. . ....... 2} " Method 1 to yield 10 gal. 

" " Ginger 4 " 

""Coriander 7 " 31. Caraway Essence 

" " Calamus 10 " 

" " Cinnamon 1J oz. From VolatUe Oils (1 oi. per gallon) 

""Cloves 1}" OU of Lemon 3J oz. 

""Star Anise 12 " ""Caraway 12 " 

1 lb. By Method 2. Rectify to 9£ lb., 
and add J lb. alcohol to complete 
10 lb. result. 



29. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for rostopschin 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless 2 dr. 
" " Sweet Orange, Ter- 
peneless 6 " 

" " Coriander ljoz. 

" " annamon 2} " 

" " Cloves 21 " 

" " Star Anise 9f " 

1 lb. 



32. Double Caraway Essence 
(Caraway Cordial, Breslau 
or Berlin Type) 

From Volatile Oils (J oz. per gallon) 

OU of Fennel 7 dr. 

" "Star Anise ljoz. 

" "Lemon 1} " 

" "Caraway 1 lb. 

By Method 2. Rectify to 9£ lb., and 
add alcohol to make a final result of 
101b. 



Remark: For Caraway Brandy use instead of alcohol and water 
H 8*1- grain alcohol of 17° underproof. 



33. Russian Caraway Essence — 
Allasch 

From Volatile Oils 
(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Rose idr. 

" " Coriander 4 " 

" " Peppermint 4 " 

" " Fennel 9 " 

" " Lemon 9 " 

" " Caraway 9 oz. 

By Method 2. Add 1 pint Wine Dis- 



tillate before rectifying to 9J lb., 
then add 

Ethyl Acetate } oz. 

Alcohol 7§ " 

Final result 10 lb. 

34. Compounded Liqueur Oil for 
Caraway Cordial 

Oil of Lemon } oz. 

" " Bitter Orange i " 

" " Fennel i " 

" Carvon Hi " 

1 lb. 



(i 



228 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

35. Compounded Liqueur Oil for 36. Compounded Liqueur Oil fob 

Double Caraway Cordial Rubsian Caraway — Allasch 

Oil of Lemon J oz. Oil of Coriander J os. 

""Fennel 1 " " " Cloves J" 

" " Star Anise 3J " " " Cinnamon J " 

Carvol 11 " " " Anethol 1 " 



1 lb. Carvol 13J 



M 



1 lb. 

Compounded Liqueur Oils for Caraway Beverages 

Employment: 1 oz. for 1 lb. of essence, whereof 1 oz. per gallon 
is required. 

Instead of oil of caraway, the more concentrated carvon (carvol) 
may be used. 

37. Crystallized Caraway Liqueur, Called Ice Caraway 

This liqueur is nothing else than a physical play due to the in- 
ability of sugar to remain in solution in strongly alcoholic liquids, 
but to crystallize. 

Boil 50 lb. hard crystallized sugar with 2 gallons water to a 
syrup, filter through flannel, and while still hot add 6 gallons 
strong alcohol and 10 oz. Russian Caraway Essence. Filter hot, 
and as quickly as possible, and fill into white glass bottles to three- 
fourths of their content. The bottles are stoppered, and placed 
in a vat filled with crushed ice mixed with some table salt. While 
cooling the sugar crystallizes slowly; and the more slowly the 
more beautiful are the crystals. The bottles are finally filled com- 
pletely with any desired caraway liqueur of high alcohol content. 

Juniper Beverages 

When juniper berries are fermented they afford a liquor having 

a pleasant taste of the berries. The liquor may also be obtained 

by distilling the berries with alcohol or corn whisky. Many 

beverages original in several countries contain more or less juniper, 

such as gin and geneva, Machandel and as a German specialty 

"Steinhaeger." Sometimes the juniper liquors are prepared with 

grain alcohol to alter their taste. 

38. Juniper Essence 39 Juniper Essence 

Vegetable Distillate From Volatile Oils 

(5 oz. per gallon) (1 oz. per gallon) 

Juniper Berries 96 lb. Oil of Lemon 3 os. 

Distil by Method 1 to the final " " Juniper Berries 12 " 

result of 10 gaL Distil by Method 2 to 9} lb. 



THE MANUFACTURE OP LIQUORS, ETC. 



229 



ft 



tt 



Rectify, and complete with J lb. 
grain brandy to the final result of 
10 1b. 

40. Geneva Essence, Dutch 

From Volatile Oils 

(1 os. per gallon) 

Oil of Cognac 3} dr. 

" Wormwood 3J " 

" Cardamom 3J " 

" Mace 1 02. 

" Cloves 1 " 

" Lemon 3 

" Juniper 12 

Distil by Method 2 but take in- 
stead of alcohol and water 1} gal. 
alcohol of 17° underproof. Rectify 
to 9} lb. and add 

Pineapple Fruit Essence . . 2 oz. 

Alcohol 6 " 

Final result 10 lb. 

41. Gin Essence, Irish (Old 

Tom Type) 

From Volatile Oils 

(1 os. per gallon) 

OQ of Hop Flowers } dr. 

" " Wormwood 7 " 



Oil of Petitgrain 7 dr. 

" Cinnamon 7 " 

" Ginger i z. 

" Angelica l " 

" Coriander \\ " 

" Lemon 2 J " 

" Jumper 8 " 

Distil just as with Geneva Essence 
with alcohol to yield 9J lb., ancj add 

Ethyl Acetate 1 oz. 

Alcohol 7 " 

Vanillin j dr. 

Result 10 lb. 



42. Steinhaeger Essence 

Steinhaeger is so called after the 
town so-named in Westphalia. 

Vegetable Distillate. 

(5 oz. per gallon.) 

Caraway Seed 2 lb. 

Angelica Root 4 " 

Jumper Berries 90 " 

Distil by Method 1, but with 
alcohol to the result of 10 gal. 



Compounded Liquor Oils for Juniper Liqueurs 

Employment: 1 oz. is sufficient for 1 lb. of essence, whereof 1 oz. 
is required to flavor 1 gallon of the beverage. 



43. Compounded Geneva Liqueur 

Oil 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless i dr. 

" Cognac 6f " 

" " Wormwood 7 " 

" Cardamom 10 " 

" Juniper, Terpeneless 1 oz. 

" Mace 2 " 

" Cloves 2J " 

Absolute Alcohol 9 " 

1 lb. 



44. Compounded] Liqueur Oil for 

Juniper Brandt 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless i oz. 
" " Juniper, Terpeneless 1 " 

Absolute Alcohol 14j " 

1 lb. 

45. Compounded Liqueur Oil for 

Artificial Steinhaeger 

Carvol J oz. 

Oil of Angelica 1 " 

" " Jumper, Terpeneless 1 " 

Absolute Alcohol 13} " 

TTb. 



230 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Mint Beverages 

Mint essences are always manufactured from volatile oils alone, 
because for distillation only the fresh herb could be used. 

Distil by Method 2 to 9 J lb., and add 

Wine Distillate J lb. 

Final result 10 lb. 



i< 



it 



46. Balm Mint Essence 
(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Neroli i dr. 

" " Balm Leaves 5 

" " Peppermint, Mitch- 
am 12 

Oil of Balm Mint 2J oz. 

Distil by Method 2 to 9} lb., and add 

Vanillin 3 J dr. 

Pineapple Fruit Essence. . . 3 oz. 

Alcohol 5 " 

Final result 10 lb. 

47. Peppermint Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Peppermint, Mitch- 
am 3} oz. 



48. Double Peppermint 
Essence 

(i oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Lemon 6 dr. 

" " Balm Leaves 6 " 

Anethol 10 " 

Oil of Peppermint, Mitch- 
am 3J oz. 

Distil just as with peppermint 
sence to a final result of 10 lb. 



Compounded Liquor Oils for Peppermint Beverages 

Employment: 1 oz. is sufficient for 1 lb. of essence, whereof 1 oz. 
is required for 1 gallon of beverage. 



49. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Balm Mint Liqueur 

Oil of Neroli i oz. 

" " Balm Leaves § " 

" " Peppermint, Mitch- 
am U " 

Oil of Balm Mint 6 

Absolute Alcohol 8 



n 



a 



1 lb. 



50. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Peppermint Liqueur 

Oil of Lemon f o*. 

" " Balm Leaves f " 

Anethol 1J " 

Oil of Peppermint, Mitch- 
am 6 " 

Absolute Alcohol 7 " 

1 lb. 



(c) Stronger Spices partly with Extract Flavor 

(Wormwood, Calamus, Celery, Cinnamon, Cloves, Ginger, 

Spice and Vanilla) 

These spices afford extractive aromas, although in some cases 
the volatile flavors, as volatile oil, are used alone. Frequently, 
however, the volatile flavor is not strong enough, as ginger and 
calamus, where the general taste is not a volatile one but sharp or 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



231 



aromatic bitter. Vanilla contains no volatile flavor but a specific 
aromatic, vanillin, as flavor, and is used only by extraction, or 
by substitution with vanillin. 

Absinthe (Wormwood) 

Absinthium, wormwood, is a bitter herb, and is much used as 
a stomachic. It is often employed by itself because of its com- 
bined aromatic and bitter taste. It is said the absinthe liqueurs 
are injurious to man, especially when habitually drunk. Most 
of the countries where absinthe is taken as a national drink have 
prohibited it, and therefore it has lost its original importance. 

51. Absinths, Swiss 



<< 



tt 



tt 



tt 



(As complete drink) 

To be taken diluted with 4 to 5 
parts water as an opalescent liqueur. 

Angelica Seed J lb. 

Coriander Seed 1 

Wormwood, Alpine, Flow- 
ering Tops 3 

Fennel Seed 3 

Anise Seed 8 

Macerate for two days in a still with 

Alcohol 5 gal. 

Water 3}" 

After two days distil off, then add 
Water 5 gal. 

and distil to yield 10 gal. finished 
product. 



52. Absinthe Essence, French 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Coriander 2 

Cinchona Bark 3 

Anise Seed 3 

Calamus Root J 

Centaury Herb J 

Valerian Root § 

Wormwood, Alpine, Flow- 
ering Tops 8 

Percolate with 

Alcohol 10 

Wine Distillate 3 

Water 12 



oz. 

it 
it 
tt 
tt 



tt 



tt 



lb. 



ii 



tt 



After 3 days collect first percolate 
of 15 lb., then pour on sufficient 
water to obtain about 10 lb. after- 
percolate, which rectify to 5 lb., 
which, mixed with the first percolate, 
give 20 lb. final result. 

53. Absinthe Essence, German 
(2 oz. per gallon.) 

Cinnamon Bark 2 oz. 

Star Anise Seed 6 

Ginger 6 

Angelica Seed 6 

Calamus Root 6 

Lemon Peel 10 

Anise Seed 1 lb. 

Coriander Seed 1 " 

Wormwood Herb 5 " 

The same method and result as the 
Absinthe Essence, French, preced- 
ing. 

54. Hyssop Essence 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Hyssop resembles Absinthium in 
regards to its bitter aromatic taste. 

Star Anise Seed } lb. 

Calamus Root J 

Angelica Root J 

Centaury Herb 1 

Gentiana Root 1 

Wormwood Herb 2 

Hyssop Leaves 5 

Use the same method as for French 
Absinthe Essence. 



tt 



tt 



a 



tt 



tt 



2oz. 

4 

6 



tt 



tt 



a 



tt 



tt 



n 



tt 



a 



232 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Compounded Liqueur Oils for Absinthes 

Employment: 1 oz. is sufficient for 1 lb. essence, whereof 1 oi. 
is required for a gallon of beverage. 



55. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for French Absinthe Liqueur 

Oil of Coriander 9 dr. 

" " Cloves 9 " 

" " Cassia Cinna- 
mon 9 " 

Oil of Fennel 1 oz. 

" " Star Anise 2 " 5 dr. 

" " Wormwood .... 1J_^ 

lib. 



56. Compounded Liquet* «.*l 
for German Absinthe Liqueur 

Oil of Angelica 1 oi. 

" Lemon 1 

" Sweet Orange 1 

" Calamus 2 

" " Coriander 2{ 

" Wormwood Si 

1 lb. 



«< 



<« 



« 



M 



57. Compounded Liqueur Oil fob 
Swiss Absinthe 

Oil of Angelica 6 dr. 

11 " Anise 10 " 

11 " Fennel 1 oz. 

" " Coriander 5 " 

" " Wormwood, French. 9 " 

1 lb. 

Calamus (Sweet Flag) 

The taste of calamus root depends upon a volatile flavor, but 
it is assisted by an aromatic bitter substance contained in the 
bark of the root. It is, therefore, necessary to use the unpeeled 
root. The best result is obtained with the fresh root, the flavor 
of which is most powerful in the early summer season, at the 
beginning of June. 

58. Calamus Essence 

Vegetable Distillate from Fresh 
Root 

(5 oz. per gallon) 

80 lb. fresh Calamus root arc dis- 
tilled by Method 1 to the final result 
of 10 gal. 



59. 1\\lamvs Essence 

From Volatile Oils 

(I o*. jht gallon) 

Oil of Calamus J lb. 

is employed, Uding Method 2, to 



afford 9} lb. rectificate. Then 
add 

Ginger Essence 3 oz. 

Alcohol 5 " 

Final result 10 lb. 

60. Compounded Calamus Es- 
sence (Calmuser Liqueur) 

From Volatile Oils 
(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Angelica J oz. 

Cardamom } "' 

" Cinnamon 1 " 

" Calamus 14 " 



<< << 



u 



\ 



n 



THE MAXCFACIXKE OF UQTORSs ETC. 



DM1 by 



2u>9*kV 



VanOliii 3dr. 

Acetic Elfcer 2 ok. 

Alcohol «" 

Final rook 10 fc. 



61. Compocxbcd Ljocxtb Oil 



Oiof Ao«elka 



46 •* 



4 C*mi 
OUs 

Jos. 

2 " 

13> M 

1 lb. 



The finest flavor is 
not pronounced enough, and it 
by that of celery seed. 

62. Cbuekt Ebeexce 

Vegetable Distillate(5 os. per gallon) 

Freah Celery Root 5 lb. 

v Celery Seed, Crushed 5" 

Distil by Method 1 to a final result 
of 10 gal 



63. Celery Essence 

From Volatile Oils (1 ox. per gallon) 

Oil of Calamus 6 dr. 

" " Anise Seed 10 " 

" " Coriander ljos. 

" " Caraway 1J 

" Celery Seed 10 



ti 



u 



u 



in the fresh celery root, but it is 
is therefore usually supplemented 

Distil by Method 2 to 9J lb. rectifr- 
cate, and add 

Wine Distillate J lb. 

Final result 10 lb. 

64. Compounded Liqueur Oil for 
Celery Liqueur 

Usual Employment of Compounded Oils 

Oil of Calamus } oa. 

" Anise 1J " 

11 Coriander 2\ " 

" Caraway 2\ " 

" Celery 9J " 

ioie: 



(< 



« 



« 



<< 



Cinnamon 



65. Cinnamon Essence 



tt 



<< 



(2 oz. per gallon) 

Cinnamon Flowers J lb. 

Cinnamon Bark, Ceylon . . 1} 
Cinnamon Cassia 3 

Percolate with 

Wine Distillate 1 

Orange Flower Water 1 

Water 4 

Alcohol 5 

Collect first percolate of 9 lb., then 
add water, and collect 5 lb. after- 
percolate, which then rectify to 1 lb., 



lb. 



(i 



<< 



tt 



which add to the first percolate to the 
final result of 10 lb. 

66. Cinnamon Essence, White 

From Volatile Oils (1 oi. nor gallon) 

Oil of Neroli l|dr. 

" " Cinnamon 1 1 oa. 

" " Cloves 1! " 

" " Cassia 11 " 

Distil by Method 2 to obtain 0) lb. 
with the addition of 1 pint of Winn 
Distillate, and then add } lb. orange 
flower water to yield 10 lb. 



234 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



67. Cinnamon Flower Essence 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Cassia Cinnamon Bark ... § lb. 
Ceylon Cinnamon Bark. . . 1J " 
Cinnamon Flowers 3 " 

Use the same method as for Cinna- 
mon Essence, as preceding. 



68. Compounded Liqueur Oil fob 
Cinnamon Liqueur 

Usual Employment of Compounded 
Liqueur Oils 

Oil of Neroli Jdr. 

Cardamom 7} " 

Cloves 3}" 

Cinnamon, Ceylon. . 3} " 

Cassia 8T 

1 lb. 



« « 



a << 



a tt 



tt tt 



Cloves 



69. Clove Essence 

(1 os. per gallon) 

Cloves, Crushed 5 lb. 

Percolate with 

Alcohol 6 lb. 

Water 6 " 

Wine Distillate 1 " 

First percolate 9 lb., and by adding 
water obtain 4 lb. afterpercolate 
which rectify to 1 lb., which add to the 
first percolate to yield 10 lb. 

70. Rosoglio Liqueur Essence 
(Italian Clove Liqueur) 

From Volatile Oils (1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Cloves 7 dr. 

Cassia lj oz. 

Cloves 1J lb. 



By Method 2 distil to obtain 9 j lb.. 
and add 



Wine Distillate . 
Final result 10 lb. 



lib. 



<< << 



tt it 



71. Compounded Liqueur Oil fob 
Rosoglio Liqueur 

Usual Employment for Compounded 
Liqueur Oils 

Oil of Rose § dr. 

" " Neroli 1§ " 

" " Cinnamon 2 oz. 6 dr. 

Benzaldehyde 2 " 8 " 

Oil of Angelica 2 "8" 

" " Cloves 8 " 8_1 

lib. 



Ginger 

The best sort of ginger to use is the Jamaica. The flavor is 
due to a pungent substance, and is only slightly assisted by a 
volatile oil. Essences exclusively made of oil of ginger are aro- 
matic, but not sharp, and therefore little liked. The root also 
contains some resinous substances not soluble in the low-grade 
alcohol employed, and which are not washed out by alkalies, as 
in the following method for Ginger Essence. 

72. Ginger Essence from Root 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

10 lb. crushed ginger root are macerated with 10 lb. water in 
which 2\ lb. sodium bicarbonatp are dissolved. Let stand for 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



235 



a day, then reject the worthless extractive liquid and wash the 
root with cold water several times until the water running off is 
colorless and tasteless. The root, after draining, is then treated 
with 

Alcohol 5 lb. 

Water 6 " 

Wine Distillate 1 " 

for three days, and then percolated to yield 9 lb. first percolate. 
The afterpercolate, obtained by aid of more water, is distilled off 
to yield 1 lb., which is then added to the first percolate to yield 
10 lb. essence. 



73. Ginger Essence, Colorless 

From Volatile Oils (2 os. per gallon) 

Oil of Cloves i oz. 

* " Cinnamon i " 

" " Ginger 13 " 

Distil by Method 2 to obtain 9) lb., 
then add 

Ethyl Acetate 2 oz. 

Alcohol 6 " 

Final result 10 lb. 

74. Stomachic Ginger Essence 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Cinnamon Bark 1 £ oz. 

Cardamom 1 J " 

Coriander 3 " 

Carob 12 " 

Ginger Root 9 lb 



Macerate with 

Wine Distillate 3 lb. 

Alcohol 12 " 

Water 12 " 

First percolate 9 lb. The after- 
percolate of 5 lb. is rectified to 1 lb. 
which is added to the first percolate 
to yield a final result of 10 lb. 

75. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Ginger Liqueur 

Usual Employment of Compounded 
Liqueur Oils 

Oil of Cloves J oz. 

" " Cinnamon 1 

" Ginger 14J 



u 



it 



a 



1 lb. 



Compound Spice Liqueur 

76. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Spice Liqueur 

Usual Employment of Compounded 
Liqueur OUs 

Oil of Coriander J oz. 

" " Lemon I " 

" " Sweet Orange 1 " 

" " Ginger li " 

" " Calamus 4 " 

" " Cloves 4 " 

« « Cassia 4} " 

1 lb. 



236 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Vanilla 

The flavoring of vanilla beans is vanillin. For the better kinds 
of essences it is preferable to use the genuine extract of vanilla 
beans, but because of the high price of the latter, vanillin tinctures 
are often employed instead. 



77. Vanilla Essence, Genuine 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

Vanilla Beans 2} lb. 

Cinnamon Bark J " 

Percolate with 

Wine Distillate 1 lb. 

Raisin Tincture 1J 

Alcohol 4§ 

Water 5 J 

Rose Water J 



(i 



tt 



tt 



<< 



Result, without collecting any after- 
percolate, 10 lb. 

78. Vanillin Essence 

(1 os. per gallon) 

Vanillin } oi. 

Wine Distillate 2J " 

Water 3J " 

Alcohol 9j " 

1 lb. 



Composition op Liqueurs with the Predominant Flavor 

For 10 gallons 



Essence 

formula 

No. 



Liqueurs. 






1 
2&12' 

3 
4 

13 # 

5 
14* 

6 
15* 

7 
16* 

8 
17* 

9 
10 
18* 
11 
19* 



20 
21* 

22 & 27* 

23 & 28* 
24 

25&29 # 
26 



Citrus Liqueurs 

Barbadoes liqueur. . 
Bergamot Liqueur. . 



Bishop Liqueur. . . .*. 
Curacao, Dutch 



it 



French 

<■ 

lemon Liqueur 

• • •• 

Spiced I>emon Liqueur. 

•i •• it 

Orange, Bitter 



Orange, sweet 

•< t< 

Mandarin Liqueur. 



Anise Liqueurs 

Anise Brandy , 

Anise Liqueur , 

Anisette, Dutch 

French... 

Fennel, Bitter 

Rostopschin 

Star Anise Liqueur. 



Content 

of 
alcohol, 
d e gr ee s 
under- 
proof. 



21 
19 

19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
19 
21 
21 
21 
21 



22 
19 
19 
19 
22 
19 
19 



Quan- 


Aleohol 
38° 


Sugar 




tity of 
essence. 


over- 
proof. 


syrup, 
60%. 


Water. 


Oz. 


Gal. 


Gal. 




20 


3* 


4 


21 


10 


3| 


21 


4 


50 


3| 


3 


3] 


50 


31 


21 


41 


10 


3! 


21 


4 


20 


4 


21 


31 


10 


41 


21 


31 


50 


3) 


2 


41 


10 


3! 


2 


41 


50 


31 


21 


41 


10 


3! 


21 


4 


50 


3* 


21 


41 


10 


3! 


21 


4 


20 


31 


2 


41 


50 


31 


21 


41 


10 


3! 


21 


4 


50 


31 


3 


31 


10 


3! 


3 


31 


50 


3J 




61 


10 


4 


1 


6 


10 


4 


21 


31 


10 


4 


21 


31 


50 


31 




7 


10 


4 


2f 


31 


50 


31 




7 



Color and 

other 
additions. 



brown-red 
yellowish- 



brown 
orange 



yellow 



orange 
«• 

brown 

orange 

<< 

•( 
•« 



colorless 



* Remark: This is to be understood as essence made from compounded liqueur oils. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



i i ■»■■< 

Double OMW Liqueur . 

RiminD Cer»*sy Ailuch 



' Gii>></. Dutob 

<;... i. - . 

x* Hrmody 



MM Ugiwi 
n Mini Liqueur. . 
Peppermint Liqueur. - 



1 Absinthe. French 
- derme; 

Hyaeop Liqueur.. 



Celmueer IJqw 
■ Celery Liqueur. 



Content 










uurier- 




Alcohol 


Sucar 






£S 


BBS. 


Weter. 


ptDol. 












o*. 


Gel. 


Gel. 




r 


so 






7 


It 




3 


1 




IS 


1 






41 


ID 


ID 


' 


H 


11 


U 


s 


H 


1 
i 


■ii 


!> 




















u 


M 


41 




M 

n 

■I 


M 


10 


31 


s 


11 


18 


10 


* 


H 


31 


19 


10 




, 


31 




10 


4 






12 




It 




N 


19 


30 


* 


H 


N 


23 


10 












» 


it 


41 




10 


31 


11 


'■: 


17 


10 


a 


t 


31 


24 


M 


31 




|i 


» 




8 






» 


» 


» 


» 


H 


u 


10 








31 


10 


H 


a 


ai 


10 


M 


3! 


*t 


i 












11 


10 


31 


* 


-I 


ii 


10 


4 


1 


«i 


24 


30 


■1 


■ 


i 


» 


a 


3 


t 


H 



1 nil. sJool 
H tal. el 

I) gul. el 



* Rimer*.- Thie ii to be uaderetood u ■ 



238 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

II. The Employment of Fresh Fruits for Spirits and 

Liqueurs 

Fruit Liqueurs and Ratafias 

The taste of fruit is imparted to alcoholic beverages by using 
the sweetened fruit juice. For this purpose the alcoholized fruit 
juices are best adapted, as these best yield up their aroma and 
flavor. The distillates of the fruits are also often used, because 
the flavor of the juice is sometimes not rich enough. The color 
must always be that natural to the juice. Artificial colors are 
not allowed, and neither is it permissible to substitute the fruit 
taste by artificial ethers. Any imitation is to be clearly stated. 

Ratafias are direct macerations of fresh and selected fruits with 
alcohol or fruit brandies but without any corrective additions. 

Genuine Pure Fruit Brandies and Their Imitations 

Their large content of fruit sugar adapts the fruits for fermenta- 
tion. The result obtained by distilling the mash is genuine fruit 
brandy. Only cherries and plums of all kinds contain enough 
natural sugar, and therefore the addition of sugar to the mash 
of these fruits, which would increase the alcohol content of the 
product, is prohibited, as is also the addition of alcohol to the 
mash before distilling. Otherwise the product must be declared 
as "cut." The other kinds of fruits contain but little sugar, and 
both manipulations are allowed without declaration. Reducing 
the distillate to the usual alcohol content with distilled water is 
allowed. The average alcohol content is about 7° underproof. 
If genuine brandies are otherwise mixed with alcohol, the product 
must also be declared as "cut." Adding foreign substances like 
volatile oils, ethers or artificial essences is prohibited, or such 
preparations must be stated to be artificial or imitation. To fortify 
genuine brandies with any such substances would be misbranding. 
On the other hand, in the interest of honest manufacturing, imita- 
tion* are not to l>e recommended at all, and therefore the formulas 
aiv limited to but a few examples. 

Ke^aixling the manufacture of fruit juices, see the proper 
chapters under the non-alcoholic industry heading. In so far as 
the juuvs to l>e used for alcoholic liquids are concerned, it is 
iviMiimiciukil to preserve them by adding alcohol to the extent 
ill k'J* underproof. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 239 

So far as fruit, preparations are in mind, the use of artificial 
substitutes, as ethers or compounded fruit ethers, should be avoided, 
as any preparation of volatile oils can only be reasonably used to 
spice the liquors and alter their taste. 

[ (a) Stone Fruits 

The stone fruits have hard stone kernels imbedded in a pulp, 
and contain one or more seeds. They contain two substances 
which react with each other to form bitter almond oil. This is 
not present naturally formed, but is a product of a reaction be- 
tween the glueoside amygdalin and the ferment emulsin, whereby 
hydrocyanic acid is formed. For food purposes it is freed from 
the hydrocyanic acid, but the artificial bitter almond oil, benzal- 
dehyde, in its chlorine-free form is well adapted to replace the 
genuine oil. The distillates of the mash of stone fruits also eon- 
tain hydrocyanic acid. Benzaldehyde is known in general as 
"kernel taxte," and is used in various alcoholic beverages. 

The stone fruits are cherries, plums of all kinds, apricots, peaches, 
bitter almonds, etc. Walnuts, even though without kernel taste, 
are stone fruits in a certain sense, and are added here. 

Cherries 

We distinguish Imtween sure; cherries and sour cherries (agriots). 
Beside the kernel taste the cherries have a prominent fruit flavor, 
which is more pronounced if the cherries are expressed without 
the seed. The sweet cherries afford most flavor, particularly the 
darkest fruit. 

1. Cherry Juice and Cherry Syrup 
The fruit juice from cherries is obtained by expressing ripe 
fruits from a portion of which the stones have been removed. 
They are expressed without fermenting the mash, and the result is 
60 to 70% juice. The acidity of the cherry juice differs. Light 
sweet cherries contain only O.ISo%, dark sweet about 0.00% and 
agriots 1.28%, fruit acid. On the other hand, the light sweet 
cherries contain about 13.5% BUgar, the dark sweet 10.5%, and 
the agriots only 8.75% sugar, on an average. Since cherry juice 
is most used for brandies, Ikjueurs, punches, etc., and also because 
of its dark color, which is like that of the wine, it is the practice 
to preserve cherry fruit juice with 15% alcohol. When cherry 



240 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

fruit syrup is to be made, the fresh or else preserved juice is 
boiled with sugar; 7 parts of juice give with 13 parts of sugar 20 
parts of syrup, after replacing the evaporated water and straining 
through flannel. 

2. Genuine Cherry Brandies 

The large amount of sugar enables the fruits to ferment easily. 
The seeds are only partly (about one-third) expressed with the 
pulp; 1 cwt. fruit yields, after distilling, about 1 to 1} gallon of 
brandy of 7° underproof. The content of hydrocyanic acid should 
not be below 0.0008% and not above 0.005%. The genuine cherry 
brandy, " Kirschwasser, " is "cut" with alcohol, and merely 10% 
of the genuine brandy is sufficient to give a pronounced taste, 
but such "cuts" are to be declared. 

From the fruits of the marasca cherry in Dalmatia a special 
brandy is distilled, and this with the addition of other aromatic 
substances is marketed as "Maraschino Spirit," which is used 
for making the universally highly prized "Maraschino." 

Imitations of cherry brandy, or any mixtures made by adding 
volatile oils, ethers or essences, to genuine brandy, are to be 
declared as "artificial." 

Pure Fruit Liqueurs from Cherries 

3. Cherry Ratafia 

(30° underproof) 

Treat 2 lb. of fully ripe and selected cherries, each perforated 
(by means of a needle) but not pressed, with 4 pints of wine 
brandy or alcohol of 7° underproof, and allow to stand for a week. 
Press off about 7 pints, and add 2 lb. sugar. The addition of 
some rum refines the product. Result 1 gallon. 

4. Cherry Fruit Liqueur 

(27° underproof) 

Cherry Fruit Juice 3 pints 

Alcohol 3 " 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 4 " 

10 pints 



\ 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 241 

« 

Pure Sweetened Cherry Liqueurs from Genuine 

Brandy 

These products contain, besides alcohol, a sufficient quantity of 
genuine brandies; no artificial colors or essences of any kind are 
allowed. The following formulas are for ready-made beverages. 

5. Cherry Brandy Liqueur 6. Maraschino di Zara 

(27° underproof) (I 70 underproof) 

Genuine Cherry Brandy.. 1 pint Spirit Marascluno . . 1 pint 



Cherry Fruit Juice 1} 



M 



(Maraska Distillate) 



a 



Alcohol 2 " Alcohol 2 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 2 " Sugar Syrup 3J " 

Difltilled Water 2 " Distilled Water 1__^ 

1 gal. 

1 gal. Colorless. 

7. Maraschino di Casalo 

(17° underproof) 

The same formula as Maraschino 
di Zara, but instead of adding 1 pint 
of water, add 1 pint of cherry fruit 
juice. Natural red color of the 
juice. 



8. Genuine Cherry Flavor 

The simplest manner of concentrating the flavor is to distil the 
natural fruit juice which has been preserved with 15% alcohol. 

1 cwt. alcoholized cherry juice is distilled slowly, 20 lb. of flavor 
being collected; to this add 8 lb. of the same alcoholized juice 
and half an ounce of vanillin crystals to round out the taste. 
This flavor represents a four-fold concentration of the juice flavor. 

If the flavor is wanted colorless, take only the distillate of 20 lb. 
and add half an ounce of vanillin crystals. This essence constitutes 
a suitable base for making all imitations of the cherry taste. 

Artificial Cherry Brandies 

These contain, besides genuine fruit flavors, several volatile 
oils and ethers, and simulate the taste of genuine brandies, but 
they must be declared as artificial. The kernel taste is reproduced 
by benzaldehyde. 



242 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 






9. Essence for Artificial 
Agriot Brandt 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Cognac 4 

11 " Cinnamon 12 

" " Cloves 1 

Benzaldehyde 2 

Rose Water If lb 

Carob Distillate 2 " 

Pure Cherry Brandy 2 " 

Colorless Cherry Flavor. . . 4 



dr. 

(i 

oz. 



it 



10 lb. 



10. Essence for Artificial 
Cherry Brandt 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Neroli 2 drops 

" " Cloves idr. 

" " Cinnamon i " 

Benzaldehyde 2 oz. 

Rum Ether 14 

Wine Brandy 1 

Colorless Cherry Flavor . 3 
Genuine Bitter Almond 

Water 5 



tt 



lb. 



<< 



n 



10 lb. 



11. Essence for Artificu 

Maraschino 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Rose 

Oil of Cinnamon 1 

" " Neroli 1 

Ethyl Acetate \ 

Ethyl Nitrite J 

Raspberry Distillate 

Wine Brandy 

Bitter Almond Water ! 

Colorless Cherry Flavor ... ! 

Alcohol ! 

ii 

12. Artificial Maraschd 
(Zara type) (Ready to drinl 

(About 20° underproof) 

Raspberry Distillate \ 

Bitter Almond Water. . . \ 

Rose Water 1J 

Orange Flower Water. . . \\ 

Arrac \ 

Wine Brandy } 

Pure Cherry Brandy.. . . \ 

Alcohol 2J 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 3 

Distilled Water 1_ 

ll 



Essences for Common Cherry Liqueurs 



13. Cherry Liqueur Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

Vanillin l§dr. 

Oil of Cloves 2 oz. 

" " Cinnamon 3 

Benzaldehyde 5 

Rum Essence 14 

Alcohol 1 lb. 

Cherry Juice 2§ " 

Cherry Flavor J> "__ 

10 lb. 



«< 



u 



n 



14. Spiced Cherrt Essen 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Vanillin 

Oil of Calamus 

" Sweet Orange 

" Lemon 

" Peppermint 1 

" Cloves 

" Cinnamon 

Benzaldehyde 

Rum Essence 

Cherry Juice 

Alcohol 

Red Cherry Flavor 

1 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



Plums 



243 



The various kinds of plums have, beside a pronounced kernel 
taste, some delicious fruit flavors, as mirabelles, green gages, 
prunelles, etc.; however, the usual domestic plums and damsons 
are also much employed, as well as the sloes, especially when these 
have been first frozen, whereby their flavor is best developed. 
The large amount of sugar they contain enables plums of all kinds 
to be mashed, and to yield a very fine fruit brandy, the Plum or 
Damson Brandy. In southern Germany especially (Black Forest) 
this brandy is largely used, and in Austria also the plum brandy 
B prized as Sliwowitz. The typic quality of plum brandy depends 
upon the species of plum, upon the method of mashing and dis- 
tilling and upon the storage. Just as with cherry brandy, the 
plum brandy may be "cut" with alcohol. Imitations are also 
to be declared. Only a couple of formulas for such imitations 
follow: 



15. Essence for Artificial Plum, 
Damson, or Sloe Brandy 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Cloves 1 J oz. 

" " Cinnamon 1J 

Ethyl Acetate 4 

Benzaldehyde 6 

Rum Ether 12 

Peach Essence 15 

Genuine Plum Brandy 2 

Distilled Water 2\ 

Alcohol 3 



«( 



<< 



a 



it 



tt 



lb. 



10 lb. 



16. Essence for Artificial 
Sliwowitz 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Cognac 2 oz. 

Benzaldehyde 4 " 

Rum Essence 6 " 

Ethyl Acetate 8 " 

Orris Root Tincture 12 " 

Wine Brandy 1 lb. 

1 " 

2 " 
2 " 
2 " 



Pineapple Essence 

Carob Tincture (1 : 5) 

Alcohol 

Distilled Water 



101b. 



Very fine extractive liqueurs are also manufactured from dried 
fruits, especially from plums. The following formula gives a 
general method for making extractive liqueurs from dried fruits, 
*8 from peach, apricot, etc. With regard to plums, the best 
Bosnian plums are preferred. The kernels are to be removed. 

17. La Prunelle (as finished liqueur) 

. j French Specialty (20° underproof) 

j Macerate 2 lb. dried seedless plums for a week with 4 pints 
1 Proof spirit. Collect without pressing 3 -act. The 



244 



MANUAL FOE THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



remainder, after adding 4 pints of water, is to be distilled, 
but only to yield 1 pint, which k added to the extract to make 
a total of 4 pints. From this make the finiahA^ liqueur as 
follows: 



4 pints 

Pur* Ptan Brandy 1 « 

2* " 

* " 

1 PL 



Bitteb Almonds and Peaches 



Almonds contain no other aromatics than benzaldehyde, 
and therefore the latter is used in all cases where a bitter almond 
taste is wanted. Apricots and peaches contain a very pleasant 
flavor, which, however, is very sensitive to heat, and is therefore 
not suited to be distilled. The finest liqueurs are manufactured 
just like the ratafias as described under Cherry Ratafia, or as 
from the dried fruits, and in the same manner as described above 
under La Prunelle. For ordinary purposes the isolated fruit 
flavors, the so-called Fruit Flavor Oils, afford the best basis for 
the natural taste of these fruits. Where the kernel taste is de- 
sired, use benzaldehyde. 



18. Apricot Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Apricot Flavor Oil 8 oi. 

Wine Brandy 1 lb. 

Distilled Water 4 " 

Alcohol 4j " 

10 lb. 

19. Bitter Almond Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Benzaldehyde 5 oz. 

Arrac Essence 11 " 

Wine Brandy 1 lb. 

Bitter Almond Water 1 " 

Bitter Orange Essence .... 1 " 

Distilled Water 2§ " 

Alcohol 31 " 

10 lb. 



20. Almond Essence (for a fine 
liqueur for women) 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Peach Flavor Oil 2 ot 

Coffee Essence, Brown 3 J " 

Bitter Almond Water 3| " 

Angostura Essence 15 " 

Walnut Essence 1 lb- 
Wine Brandy 1 

Cacao Essence, Brown 1 

Bitter Orange Essence 1J " 

Plum Brandy 2 * 

Nutmeg Tincture (1 : 10) . 2 " 

10 lb. 

Add further oil of rose and oil of 
neroli, of each one drop, and 1} dr. 
vanillin. 



THE MA3CDFACTOT£ OF ZJESTOE: 
SL Macabook Fiwittt (far* 2SL ^bbbx? Imeks 



Apricot UtTor QQ 2 m. 



Peach Flavor Oil 2; • " " -annuMC- i. - 

RMpbeny DisuQase . I * 

WineBnndr. 1£> - 

Coffee Faeaot, Brown 1* k. Wj 

Artificial MuBBdaiDiF &- (sv Ijbczbf* 1. .5. 



Cacao Essence. Brora . 3* * laB&ket V. 

Walnut Eaveuce £ * 



11 h. 11 r. 



- ue. vr 



Ababa. 
DasDiec V but 



-r 'JC 

. b. 
J I h. 



The typical aroma of wuium* j» nrjtr Tirjirjtniwsi ii TXLnzx 
fruits, when they art gun* et*k!. kh. ■»;:. ** ^rf-jrtvii t^j. h 
needle. The flavor i* nyr t *rjrxjg r ju*i u^i ^ c*ci*rLl-y i'jr^b^i 
by volatile wis. Tiie iiin yjerok*Ti» ii: ">sjiti^*ti7 - 'A. 

2 oi- r*sr owx 



:preasei and the 
juice is reserved- Tb<sj ejix lb*: wi^'i* with 4 oz. of allspice and 
6 oz. of nutmeg, add 8 lb. tdtttbol aid 1 lb. wine brandy, and let 
stand three days. Th«i prrcolat*. and collect and reserve 8 lb. 
of percolate. Plac* the residue in the «rtill with the juice first 
obtained, and distil off 2 lb., which then add to the 8 lb. of percolate; 
lastly add 1 dram vanillin. 

It is recommended to fortify this pure natural essence with 
one-third of the following essence from volatile oils: 



246 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



25. Walnut Essence prom Volatile Oils 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Benzaldehyde 3 dr. 

Oil of Mace 1 oz. 

44 «• Cinnamon 1 " 

" " Cloves 2 " 

" " Sweet Orange 12 " 

Distil the oils with the use of the return tube, using 2 gallons of 
alcohol and 3£ gallons of water. 

After one hour distil off 4 gallons, filter quite clear by aid of 
infusorial earth, and rectify after adding 

Wine Brandy 2 lb. 

to a yield of 18 lb., which mix further with 2 lb. alcohol, to avoid 
subsequent cloudiness, to the final result of 20 lb. 

Compounded Volatile Oils for Liqueurs with the Taste 
of Cherry, Bitter Almonds, Plum and Walnut 

Even though the most pronounced taste is reproduced only b& 
use of the natural fruit material, the following compounds oM 
volatile oils are adapted to imitate the natural essences and to fortify 
them. They are employed by dissolving one oz. in 15 oz. of alcohol 
of 13° overproof. If the solution is cloudy, filter by aid of infusc*- 
rial earth. Of this essence one oz. will suffice for a gallon of the 
finished drink. 



26. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Spice Cherry Liqueur 

Oil of Calamus J oz 

" " Sweet Orange \ " 

" " Peppermint 1 " 

" " Cloves 1 " 

" " Cinnamon 1§ " 

Benzaldehyde 11J " 



28. Compounded Liqueur Oil 
for Maraschino 



1 lb. 



27. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Nalewka (a Polish specialty) 

Oil of Cinnamon 1 § oz. 

" " Cloves 2 " 

Benzaldehyde 4 J " 

Absolute Alcohol 8 " 

1 lb. 



Oil of Rose 1J 

" " Neroli 1J «* 

" " Cinnamon 5 ** 

" " Bitter Orange 4} 

Benzaldehyde 5 

Oil of Lemon 6 

T 

29. Compound Liqueur Oil fo* 
Sliwowitz (Austrian Specialty) 

Cognac Oil 1J 

Fusel Oil 2} 

Benzaldehyde 1 2 

n 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 247 

Compound Liqueur Oil for 31. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Persico Walnut 

00 of Lemon 1J oz. Benzaldehyde J oz. 

** " Sweet Orange 2 " Oil of Mace \ " 

Benxaldehyde 3f " ""Cinnamon 1 " 

00 of Cloves 4 " ""Cloves 2 " 

" "Cinnamon 5 " " " Sweet Orange 12 " 



1 lb. 1 lb. 

(6) Kernel Fruits 

Regarding the kernel fruits, only the taste of pears is reproduced 

t essences for alcoholic beverages, of which the better qualities 
\ manufactured as ratafias by treating the fresh, selected fruits 
with wine brandy. Apples, pears and quinces are treated in such 
planner, and afford delicious table liqueurs. 
It The only Pear Liqueurs used are merely artificial products, 
aromatized with amyl acetate, but of the latter it is recommended 
to use only traces. 

Pear Essences 

32 Imperial Pear Essence 33. Muscade Pear Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) (1 oz. per gallon) 

Vanillin § dr. Oil of Neroli J dr. 

Amyl Acetate 1 J " Amyl Acetate 1 } " 

Raspberry Distillate 5 oz. Vanillin 6 " 

Bergamot Essence 11 " Nutmeg Tincture 5J oz. 

Orange Flower Water 1 lb. Woodruff Essence 10 " 

Wine Brandy 1 " Elder Flower Tincture .... 1 lb. 

Distilled Water 2\ " Wine Brandy 1 " 

Alcohol 4$ " Orange Flower Water 1 " 

10 lb. Distilled Water 2 " 

Alcohol 4 " 



10 lb. 
(c) Berries of All Kinds 

Berries are distinguished by their large amount of juice, which, 
kowever, bears only a part of the natural flavor, the largest part 
remaining in the flesh. The essences for non-alcoholic beverages 
we distilled from the whole berries or the flesh only. For making 
alcoholic beverages it suffices to distil an essence of fresh fruits as 
follows: 

34. Raspberry Distillate 

(Raspberry Spirit) 

1 cwt. fresh raspberries are distilled with 20 gallons alcohol of 
30° underproof, 10 gallons of distillate being collected. 



248 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

35. Raspberry Flavor from Fruit Juice 

10 gallons raspberry juice/ fresh, not preserved or spirited, are 
distilled slowly with 1 gallon of alcohol to a yield of 8 lb., to which 
are further added 2 lb. raspberry juice to afford a final essence of 
10 1b. 

Remark: All kinds of berries may be treated in exactly the same 
manner to obtain the various essences. 

Berry Fruit Juice Liqueurs of the best grade are best manufac- 
tured as ratafias in the same manner as Cherry Ratafia. Second- 
grade berry liqueurs are made from fruit juices with the addition 
of any distillate as above described, with alcohol only, or in cases 
of better quality, with the addition of fruit brandies obtained by 
fermenting berries with added sugar or by the distillation of fer- 
mented berries with little alcohol. 

These fruit liqueurs are much sweetened, and in general are 
manufactured as follows, raspberries being taken as an example. 

Of course all kinds of berries may be worked up according to 
the same rules, if distillates, juices or genuine brandies of the fruits 
are at hand. 

36. Raspberry Liqueur 37. Raspberry Table Liqueur 

(32° underproof) (27° underproof) 

Raspberry Distillate J pint Raspberry Distillate J pint 

Raspberry Juice 2 " Pure Raspberry Fruit 



Alcohol 2§ " Brandy J 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 4 " Raspberry Juice 2 

Distilled Water lj " Alcohol 3 

About 1 gal. Distilled Water } 

Sugar Syrup 4 



« 
« 



About 1 gal. 

The most important of the liqueurs made along these lines are 
black and red Bilberry, Raspberry, Sorbapples (as Jarcebinka, a 
Polish specialty) and Strawberry. Blackberry Brandy in partic- 
ular is much liked. Grenadine is manufactured from the juice of 
pomegranate fruits, but without the use of any distillate, because 
the fruits have no flavor other than that present in the juice itself; 
in this case the quantity of distillate ordinarily employed is sub- 
stituted by the same quantity of raspberry distillate. Some kinds 
of berries, as bilberries, have only a slightly pronounced flavor, 
and therefore the taste is fortified by aromatization with some 




THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS. ETC. 



foreign distillate and a fine bitter flavor, as, for instance, Angostura 
Essence. 






38. Dk.hf.hhv Essence, Black 

Angostura Essence J lb 

Strawberry Distillate 11 " 

Bilberry Distillate, Black. . 8 '■ 
10 lb. 

39. Bilberry Essence, Red 
Angostura Essence. ...... 1 lb. 

Raspberry Distillate 1} " 

Bilberry Distillate, Red . . 



40. Wild-fbcit Essence 

Sweet Orange Essence .... 1 lb. 

Lemon Essence . 1 " 

Wine Brandy 1 " 

Raspberry Distillate 3 " 

Strawberry Distillate _4 ^ 

10 lb. 



10 lb. 



, 






With regard to currants, only the black currants are used, but 
the juice must be fermented in every case, and before distilling 
the berries, because the taste develops only when the fruit is fer- 
mented. The Groseille liqueur made from black currants is much 
prized as a stomachic. 

Supplement: Tropical Frdits (Banana and Pineapple) 

41. Banana Essence 

(5 ok. per gallon) 

Macerate 10 lb. of peeled bananas, which must not be over- 
ripe, with 10 lb. of alcohol of 23° overproof. Press off after a 
week about 8 lb., and add 2 lb. pure wine brandy and £ oz. vanillin. 

The taste is not a strong one, and therefore 5 02. per gallon is 
necessary. Fortifying with ethers, as ethyl butyrate, is not to be 
recommended. 

42. Pineapple Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

10 lb. of fresh pineapples are peeled. The 2 lb. of peels obtained 
are ground, and macerated with 2 lb. alcohol for three days. In 
the meantime the peeled fruit is ground and expressed, yielding 
about. 6 lb. of juice. This juice is not suitable for essences, but 
is suitable for punches and cups, and it must be at once pre- 
served with about I lb. alcohol. The residue is macerated with 
2 lb. alcohol, and is expressed off just Itcfore expressing the macer- 
ated peels. Then the already extracted peels are once more 
macerated with the extractive fluid from the residue for one day 
and then expressed off. Both the first and second extracts from 
the peels are united, and made up to 5 lb. by addition of some 



250 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



wine distillate if necessary. Finally £ oz. vanillin is dissolved in 
the essence. 

Remark: Of course the finest pineapple table liqueurs are ob- 
tained by the method used for ratafias. In no case should the 
delicious aroma be substituted by artificial fruit ethers. 

The manufacture of fruit essences or preparations of fresh 
fruits is limited to the season when the fruits are ripe. Other- 
wise the juice only is used, or pure brandies from the fruits are 
employed. The fineness of the fruit liqueurs depends entirely 
upon the selection of the fruits with regard to their species and 
their good condition. Rotten fruits will always impair, the flavor. 
The addition of some pure brandies, as rum and arrac, will refine 
the products. 

Composition of Liqueurs with Fruit Taste 

For 10 gallons 



Essence 
for- 
mula 
No. 



9 

10 

11 A 27* 

13 

13 
14 6 26* 

2*' 



15 

10 A 29* 

18 

10 
20 
21 

22 4 30* 

23 
24,25 ft 

31* 



32 4 33 
41 

42 



Cherry Taste 

Agriot Brandy, artificial. . 
Cherry Brandy, artificial. 

Maraschino, artificial 

Ordinary Cherry Liqueur. 



Sweet Cherry liqueur 
•Spiced Cherry Liqueur. 
NaJewka 



Alcohol 
content 



Quan- 



under- ** <* 



proof, i 



nee. 



Plum Taste 

Plum, Damson, or Sloe Bran- 
dy, artificial 

Sliwowits, artificial 

• 
Other Stone Fruit Taste 

Apricot 

Bitter Almond 

Almonds 

Macaroon Liqueur 



Peraico. 
Peach.. 
Walnut. 



Kernel and Exotic Fruits 

Pear (Imperial and Muscade) 

Banana 

Pineapple 



15 
12 
20 
15 

20 
20 
30 



17 
17 

24 

29 
24 
24 

24 
24 
20 



I 



24 
24 
24 



Os. 

10 
10 
10 
20 

20 
20 
10 



10 
10 

10 

10 
10 
20 

10 
10 
20 



10 
10 
10 



I 



'Alcohol 






38* 


Sugar 




over- 


eyrup, 


Water. 


proof. 


w%. 




i 
Gal. 


Gal. 


Gal. 


41 


1 


5! 


41 


1 


51 


31 


4 


21 


41 


1 


51 


31 


2 


31 


31 


2 


31 


21 


21 


31 


4 


1 





4 


1 





31 


3 


31 


3 


3 


41 


31 


3 


4 


31 


4 


3 


31 


3 


4 


31 


4 


3 


31 


21 


4 


31 


31 


31 


31 


21 


41 


31 


3 


31 



Color. 



colorless 



1 gal. cherry 

juice 
1 gal. juice 

1 gal. juice. 

2 gal. juice. 



colorless 



light yellow- 
ish 

colorless 

light green 

light yellow- — 
ish 

colorless 

orange 

brown-green -* 



green-yellow 

light-yellow 

yellow 



* With compound essential oils use their solutions (1 os. per pound) as 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 251 

m. Spirits with Simple Leading Extractive Aroma 

This group contains but few members. The employment is 
mostly limited to the extractives, because their flavors are not 
volatile, or are very difficultly so. 

(a) Woodruff 

1. Woodruff Essence from Fresh Plants 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

The flavor contained in the flavoring tops of fresh woodruff 
is cumarin, identical with that present in tonka beans and new 
mown hay; for most purposes it is manufactured artificially, but 
the natural taste of woodruff is liked very much for cups. Wood- 
ruff is not suited for distillation. 

7 5 lb. fresh flowering woodruff tops are crushed and expressed 
as sharply as possible. The juice is worthless, as its taste is 
grassy. The residue of the plants is mixed with 4 oz. ground 

tonka beans and treated with 

• 

Alcohol 4 lb. 

Grape Tincture 2 " 

Pineapple Essence 1 " 

Wine Brandy 1 " 

Orange Flower Water 4 oz. 

After allowing to stand for three days express off about 10 lb. 

This essence is used mostly for wine bowls and refreshing cold 
alcoholic beverages. 

2. Artificial Woodruff Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Cumarin 1 oz. 

Warm Alcohol 15 oz. 

Dissolve, then add 

Alcohol 3 J lb. 

Tonka Bean Tincture (1:5) 1 " 

Distilled Water 4j " 

10 lb. 

This class contains the flavor of stimulant drugs such as con- 
tain either caffeine (e.g., cacao, coffee), coca or cocaine, kola and 
tea. Their stimulant action combined with the delicious flavor 
is very much in favor with ladies for dessert V 



252 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



M 



It 



U 



3. Coca Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Tonka Bean Tincture J lb. 

Vanilla Liqueur Essence . . 1 
Bitter Orange Distillate. . . 1} 

Coca Tincture (1:5) 3 

Lemon Distillate _4 ||_ 

10 lb. 

4. Cacao Essence, Brown 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Roasted and ground cacao beans 
which are used in chocolate manu- 
facture are better suited than the 
powdered and deoleated cacao. 

Cacao Beans 5 lb. 

Alcohol 7J " 

Water 7J " 

Percolate for three days and, using 
sufficient water subsequently, collect 
20 lb. of percolate. 

This percolate, to which are added 

Cinnamon Tincture 1 oz. 

Arrac 2 lb. 

is used as medium for a further per- 
colation of 5 lb. cacao beans to 
yield of 20 lb. 
Then add 

Vanillin 3 dr. 

Remark: The flavor of cacao is 
distillable only with loss, and in 
most cases, where the color is im- 
material, this brown essence is to 
be preferred. 

5. Cacao Essence, Colorless 

(3 oz. per gallon) 

Cacao Essence, Brown (as 

above) 101b. 

Alcohol 3 " 

Water 3 " 

Distil off 10 lb. and dissolve in the 
distillate 3 dr. vanillin. Result 10 lb. 

This colorless essence is suitable for 
delicious creams and dessert liqueurs. 



6. Chocolate Essence fob 
Pralines Liqueur 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Cardamom Tincture i lb. 

Clove Tincture J " 

Cinnamon Tincture ) " 

Brown Cacao Essence. ... 9 " 

Vanillin 3 dr. 

10 lb. 

If this essence is wanted colorless, 
use the colorless cacao essence and 
above other ingredients. No es- 
sential oils should be substituted for 
the tinctures of the spices. 



7. Coffee Essence, Brown 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

Best, and freshly roasted, 

Coffee Beans 5 lb. 

Alcohol, 27° underproof. . . 10 " 

Let stand one day, then percolate, 
using sufficient water subsequently 
to obtain 10 lb. percolate. 

With this percolate mix 

Cinnamon Tincture 5 oz. 

Mace Tincture 5 " 

Pure Wine Brandy 1 lb. 

Pure Arrac 1J " 

and with this mixture, percolate 5 lb. 
coffee as before, to obtain a second 
percolate of 10 lb. essence. 

The remark under Cacao Essence 
applies here also. 



8. Coffee Essence, Colorless 
(3 oz. per gallon) 

Brown Coffee Essence (as 

above) 101b. 

Alcohol 3 " 

Water '. . . 3 " 

Distil to yield a final result of 
10 lb. Essence. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



253 



9. Cola Nut Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 



Percolate with 

Lemon Distillate 3 oz. 

Vanilla Tincture 5 " 

Arrac 1 lb. 

Wine Brandy 1 " 

Pineapple Essence 1J " 

Orange Flower Water 1| " 

Alcohol.... 1J " 

Rose Water 2J " 

The percolation should require 
three days, with the subsequent addi- 
tion of sufficient water to yield 10 lb. 
essence. 

Regarding colorless Tea Essence, 
see the remark under Cacao Essence. 



Composition of Liqueurs with the Taste of Woodruff 

and Stimulants 

Remark: The stimulant liqueurs are used very sweet, and if 
colorless they are designated Creams (Crimes) or Huiles, con- 
stituting delicious specialties for dessert liqueurs. 

For 10 gallons 



Bergamot Liqueur Essence J lb. 


Sweet Orange Distillate. . 


1 " 


Tonka Bean Tincture 


. 1 " 


Vanilla Liqueur Essence . 


1 " 


Cola Nut Tincture (1:5).. 


4 " 


Bitter Orange Distillate . . 


. 2f " 




10 lb. 


10. Tea Essence 




(2 oz. per gallon) 




Black Ceylon Tea 


.. 31b. 


Dried Rose Flowers 


5 OB. 



formula 
No. 



3 
4 
ft 
6 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
10 



Genuine Woodruff 
Liqueur 

Artificial Woodruff 
Liqueur 

Coca Liqueur 

Cacao Liqueur, brown 

Cream of Cacao 

Chocolate (Pralinee) .. 
Cream of Chocolate. . . 

Coffee, Brown 

Cream of Coffee 

Kola Liqueur 

Tea Liqueur, Brown. . 
Cream of Tea 



Content 




of 


Quan- 


alcohol 


tity of 


under- 


emm?^ 


proof. 




Degree 


Oi. 


22 


10 


22 


10 


19 


10 


24 


20 


29 


30 


29 


30 


29 


30 


24 


20 


29 


30 


19 


20 


24 


20 


29 


30 



Alcohol 
38* 

over- 
proof. 



Gal. 
3* 

31 



8 ™' Water. 



Gal. 
3 



4 


2 


3* 


3 


2! 


4 


21 


4 


2! 


4 


3* 


3 


2| 


4 


4 


1* 


3} 


3 


2f 


3 



GaL 
3! 

3} 



4i 
3! 
3} 
3* 
3) 
3| 
3) 
41 
H 



Color. 



green, and 2 gal. 

white wine or 

apple juice 
green 



brown 



brown 
color lees 
brown 
color lees 
olive-green 
light-brown 
color lew 



IV. Aromatic Waters 

These so-called alcoholics are manufactured from volatile 
oils or compounded liqueur oil compounds. The \**>\, yvkxvXXa, 
regarding fineness, are obtained by distillation oi W& &Tou\aMw 



254 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

drugs. In some cases the latter preparations are substituted by 
volatile oils. 

There exists a further distinction regarding the taste. That of 
most of the aromatic waters is volatile in character, and only a 
few of the waters are of a light bitter type. Some aromatic water 
essences are mixtures of various kinds. 

The French specialties vary according to their origin. Their 
manufacture is simplified by standard methods as follows: 

Method A. — Volatile Oils as Raw Material for Aromatic Waters 

The formulas are always calculated on 1 lb., of which 1 oz. is 
sufficient for 1 lb. of essence, and thereof 1 oz. is required for 1 
gallon of liquid. 

In the simplest cases 1 oz. of the compounded oil is dissolved in 
15 oz. alcohol of 13° overproof, and clarified if cloudy. The better 
and finer essences are obtained by distillation of the oils with 
alcohol according to the following method: 

1 lb. of the compounded oils as prescribed is mixed in a still 
with 

Alcohol 1 gal. 

Water 2 " 

and then distilled with the aid of the return tube. 

2 gallons of distillate are collected, which are mixed with 1 gallon 
of water, and after filtration with infusorial earth, rectified to 
yield about 1] gallons, to which is then added sufficient alcohol 
to obtain finally 10 lb. by weight. 

This essence will not render turbid any alcohol, and contains 
only the finest portions of the flavor. 1 oz. is required to afford 
1 gallon of the finished beverage. 

Method B. — Vegetable Distillates from Drugs 

This method affords the finest results, exhausting all of the 
flavor. The quantity of the drugs varies, and in the formulas 
the weight of the drugs is based on the final result of 5 gallons in 
every case. The first fonnula of this kind — as for example 
Gold Water of Danzig — shows the method once and for all. 
Of these vegetable distillates J gallon is required to make 10 gallons 
of the finished beverage. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



255 



Mixed Essences for Aromatic Waters 

Only some aromatic essences, such as of rose oil, of violet 
flavor, and mastic essence, are compounded by simple solution 
or mixture of the ingredients. 

(a) Volatile Oils as Raw Material for Aromatic Waters 

Employment: Method A. — 1 oz. of the compounded liqueur 
oil is sufficient for 1 lb. essence, whereof 1 oz. is required to yield 
a gallon of the finished beverage. 



1. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Alkermes Liqueur 

Oil of Rose i oz. 

" " Neroli i " 

" " Cloves 2 " 

" " Mace 3 " 

" " Cinnamon 4 

Bay Laurel 6} 



« «« 



(i 



tt 



it 



it 



tt 



it 



it 



tt 



1 lb. 

2. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Captain Water 

Oil of Angelica 2 dr. 

" " Cloves 3 

" " Sweet Orange 3 

" " Cardamom 5 

" " Lemon 7 

" " Fennel 8 " 

" " Calamus 1J " 

" " Anise l] 

" " Mace 11 

" " Caraway 1 oz. 

1 lb. 

3. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Cordial Liqueur of Danzig 

Roman Chamomile Oil 1 dr. 

Oil of Mace 1 " 

Angelica 14 " 

1 oz. 

Peppermint 1 

" Caraway 2$ 

Fennel 3 J 

" " Star Anise 7 



" " Cloves 

« it 

tt 

€t tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 



4. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Cordial Medoc Liqueur 

Oil of Rose 3 drops 

Cardamom 1 J dr. 

Coriander 6f " 

Calamus 1 oz. 

" Cinnamon 3 " 

Cloves 3i " 

Lemon 4 " 

Bitter Orange 8 " 

1 lb. 

5. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Gold Water of Danzig 

Oil of Rose 1 dr. 

" Lemon 7 " 

" Coriander 8 " 

" Calamus H 

" Cloves H 

" Cinnamon 1J " 

" Caraway 2 J 

" Bitter Orange 3 

" Star Anise 5 " 

1 lb. 

6. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Railway Liqueur of Munich 

Oil of Sweet Orange 10 dr. 

Coriander 10" 

Bitter Orange 12 " 

Wormwood 1 oz. 

Calamus 1 " 

Cloves 2 " 

Star Anise 5 " 

Peppermint 5 " 

VV6. 



<< 



<( 



tt 



n 



tt 
tt 
tt 
a 
a 
u 
a 



256 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



7. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Riga Balsam (Russian Specialty) 

Oil of Mustard Seed 1 dr. 

" " Thyme, Red 15 " 

" " Marjoram 1 oz. 

" " Lovage 2 " 

" " Lemon 2 " 

" " Elecampane 8 " 

Saffron Tincture (1:5).... 2 " 



8. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Sergeant Liqueur 

OilofCubebs 6 dr. 

" " Mace 10 " 

" " Cloves 2 oz. 

" " Lemon 2 " 

" " Cinnamon 3} " 

" " Sweet Orange 3J " 

" " Bitter Orange 4 



(i 



1 lb. 

9. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Water-cress Liqueur 

Oil of Coriander J dr. 

" " Rose 1 " 

" " Calamus 1 " 

" " Mace 1J " 

" " Petitgrain 2 

" " Cloves 4 

" " Cinnamon 4 

" " Allspice 8 

" " Star Anise 10 

" " Sweet Orange 2 oz. 

" " Lemon 3 " 

" " Bitter Orange 9 " 

1 lb. 



1 lb. 



u 

u 
u 
«( 
it 



French Specialties 

10. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Eau Celeste 

Oil of Neroli i oz. 

44 " Cloves 1} " 

" " Coriander 2 " 

11 " Cardamom 2 " 

" " Lemon 4i " 

" " Anise 5 



k 



12. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Eau de la C6te 

Oil of Peppermint 2 oz. 

" " Bergamot 3} " 

" " Cinnamon 4} " 

" Lemon (J " 

FTb. 



if 



1 lb. 

11. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Eau des Favorites 

Oil of Rose 3 drops 

" " Neroli 1 dr. 

" " Lemon 7 " 

" " Cloves 8 " 

" " Mace 8 " 

,4 M Cardamom 8 " 

" " Cinnamon 2 oz. 

Alcohol, Absolute 12 






u 



lib 



13. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Parfait d* Amour 

Oil of Rose 10 dr. 

" Neroli 10 " 

" Mace 12 " 

" Sweet Orange 1 oz. 

" " Lemon 1J " 

Benzaldehyde 2 " 

Oil of Cloves 2J " 

" " Cinnamon 3 " 

" " Calamus 4 " 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



257 



Bitter Specialties 



14. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Bavarian Alpine Herbs 

Liqueur 

Oil of Anise 1 dr. 

" " Cardamom 1* " 

" " Caraway 2 " 

" " Cloves 2J " 

" " Wormwood 3 " 

" " Coriander 4 " 

" " Fennel 6 " 

" " Bitter Orange 12 " 

" " Lemon I oz. 

" " Calamus 2 " 

" " Angelica 2J " 

" " Cinnamon 2 " 

" " Sweet Orange 6j " 

1 lb. 

15. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Berlin Double Bitters 

Oil of Angelica | oz. 

" " Cinnamon J " 

" " Qoves J " 

" " Ginger I " 

" " Calamus 3 " 

" " Bitter Orange 3J " 

" " Wormwood 7 " 

1 lb. 

16. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Danzig Cordial Drops 

Oil of Mace 1J dr. 

" " Roman Chamomile. . 2 " 

11 " Peppermint 12J " 

" " Qoves I oz. 

" " AngeUca I " 

" " Caraway 3 " 

11 " Fennel 4 " 

" " Star Anise 6 " 

1 lb. 



u 

it 
it 
it 
it 

M 

It 
It 
tl 
ti 



17. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Elixir db Spaa 

Oil of Elecampane 1 dr. 

Cloves 2 

Mace. . 2 

Marjoram 4 

Galanga 7 

Angelica 12 

Caraway 1 J oz. 

Calamus 1} ' 

Coriander 2 ' 

Lemon 4 ' 

Sweet Orange 6 ' 

1 lb. 

18. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Kontuszowka (Polish Specialty) 

Oil of Rose 3 drops 

" " Neroli 3 " 

" " Coriander 4 dr. 

" " Peppermint 6 " 

" " Lemon 6 " 

" " Fennel 1 oz. 

" M Caraway 2 " 

" " Wormwood 2 " 

41 " Juniper 2 ". 

" " Anise 3 " 

" " Star Anise 5 " 

lib. 

19. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

White Stomach Water 

Oil of Neroli 10 drops 

" " Juniper 2 oz. 

" " Cloves 2 " 

" " Coriander 2 " 

" " AngeUca 2 " 

" " Calamus 4 " 

" " Wormwood 4 '* 



(6) Vegetable Distillates for Making Aromatic Waters 

These are made according to the following example for Danzig 
Golden Water: 



258 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



20. Vegetable Distillate fob Danzig Golden Wateb 

Nutmeg 1 lb. 

Cardamom 1) 

Coriander 2 

Cinnamon Bark 2) 

Juniper Berries 10 

Fresh Lemon Peel 20 



n 



it 



u 



tt 



it 



Distil with 8 gallons alcohol of 17° underproof for some time 
with return of the distillate. Afterwards distil off 8 gallons, with 
the usual addition of water, then filter with infusorial earth, and 
finally rectify the filtrate to a yield of 5 gallons. 

The vegetable distillates are used in the proportion of J gallon 
to 10 gallons of the finished beverage. 

In the further formulas only the quantities of the various drugs 
are given, and the latter are worked in same manner as in the 
above example. 



21. Vegetable Distillate for 
Danzio Baal Water 

Vanilla Beans J lb. 

Cloves 1 

Ginger 2 

Gentian Root 2 

Galanga Root 2 

Star Anise 2 

Fennel 2 

Rosemary Leaves 2 

Allspice 2 

Cassia Cinnamon 5 

Sage Leaves 5 

Sweet Orange Peel 5 



n 



tt 



n 



tt 



n 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



a 



23. Vegetable Distillate Fob 
Christophelet 

Cardamom 1 lb. 

Cloves 1 

Coriander 1} 

Cinnamon 2} 

Violet Root 2J 

Cubebs 2J 

Paradise Brains 2} 

Rosemary 2} 

Sage 3i 

Balm Herb, dried 4 

Red Rose Leaves 4 



tt 



tt 



it 



u 



u 



tt 



u 



tt 



u 



it 



22. Vegetable Distillate 
Carmelite Spirit 

Nutmeg 

Mace 

Cloves 

Cinnamon Bark 

Coriander 

Angelica Root 

Thyme 

Sage 

Rosemary 

Hyssop 

Fresh Flowering Balm 
Herb 



FOR 

2oz. 

4 " 
51b. 

5 " 
10 " 
10 " 
10 " 
10 " 
10 " 
10 " 

15 " 



24. Vegetable Distillate for 
Danzig Cordial 



Cinnamon R*rk 


1 lb. 


Cloves 


1 " 


Nutmeg 


1 " 


Mace 


1 " 


Violet Root 


. . . 3 " 


Anise 


. . . 3 " 


Fennel 


... 3 " 




5 " 
... 30" 



THE MANTFaCTCRE OF LIQUORS, ETC, 



Frknch Specialties 



25. Vcoctuu DraiDJJir r 

E*U DC BaTATF. 

(Batman Water) 

Cloves 

Nutmeg 2 



26. VeoBTABLK DnmuTS fob 
Eau dc BouqcET 

Star Anise )S 

Cloven 

Nutmeg 

Rosemary 



Cinnamon 

Lavender 

Orange Flowers 

Orris Root 

Bitter Orange Peels . . 
Freeh Lemon Peek. . 



27. Vegetable Distillate fob 
Eau de Fantaibie 

Cloves Jib. 

Cubebs 1 " 

Cardamom 2 " 

C innamon 3 " 

Pistachio Nuts, Shelled . . . 3 " 

Fresh Sweet Orange Peel.. 15 " 



28. Vegetable Distillate for 

Eav d'Orient 

(Eskubak) 

Bitter Almonds 1 lb. 

Allspice 2 " 

Paradise Grains 2 " 

Bitter Orange Peels 9" 

Carob 9 " 

Dates 9 " 

Figs 12 " 



20. Vegetable DtRiLUTw r*« 
Eac he Paradise 

IK 

I* 

I** 

a Root 1) " 

Orris Root 3 * 

Angelica Root 3 " 

Bitter Orange Fruit * ** 

Freeh Lemon Peel 30 * 

30. Vkgktable Db-tillatk for 

Ead de Portcoal 
(Portugal Water) 

Cloves 1 IK 

Cinnamon Bark .......... 1 " 

Coriander Seed If " 

Sweet Orange Peel 10 " 

31. VEGETABLE DISTILLATE for 

Eau de Sultan (Sultan Water) 

Bitter Orange Fruits 2 lb. 

Dates 4 M 

Orange Flower 4 " 

Figs 8" 

Lemon Peel 8 " 

Curacao Peels 8 " 

32. Vegetable Distillate FOB 
E*n Divine (Divinity Water) 

Mace 1 lb. 

Cardamom 1 " 

Coriander Seed 3) " 

Fresh Lemon Peel 20 " 



Rosemary 1} lb- 
Cloves lj " 

Mace 1J " 

Cardamom 1) " 

Cinnamon 3 " 

Bitter Orange Peels 

Lemon Peels 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Bitter Specialties 



Cloves |ll 

Cardamom j " 

Galanga Root 1 " 

Cinnamon 1 " 

Nutmeg 1 " 

Calamus Root 1) " 

Cassia Cinnamon 11 " 

Angelica Root IJ " 

Mace 2J " 

Lemon Peel 3 " 

Bitter Orange Fruit 3 " 

Gentian Root 3 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 71 " 



Juniper Berries 3 

Bitter Orange Peels 3 

Lemon Peels 3 

37. Vegetable Distillate F 
Dands Cordial 

Cardamom 4 

ZedoaryRoot I 

Ginger 1 

Calamus Root 2 

Elecampane Root 2 

Centuary Herb 2 

Horse Mint 3 

Bitter Orange Peels 3 

GalangnRoot G 

Buckbean Leaves 6 

Gentian Root 6 



Saffron 

Nutmeg 

Cloves 

Paradise Grains. . 

Cardamom 

Orris Root 

Coriander 



Dates 3J * 

Galanga Root 5 

Cubebs 5 

Figs 71' 

Grapes 

Lemon Peels 

Bitter Orange Fruits 



Cardamom 1 II 

Ginger I " 

Calamus Root I " 

Balm Herb 2 " 

Coriander 2 •' 

Fennel 2 * 

Anise 21 " 



38. Vegetable Distillate fob 
Greek Btttbbs 

Cassia Cinnamon. 2 lb. 

Wormwood 2 " 

Mace 2 " 

Cloves 2 " 

Cardamom 2 " 

Angelica Root 2 " 

Calamus Root i " 

5" 



39. Vegetable Distillate fob 

Krahbambotj 

Nutmeg }lb. 

Allspice 1 " 

Cubebs 1 " 

Bitter Almonds 1 " 

Paradise Grains 1 " 

Cloves 2 " 



Wormwood 2J " 

Roman Chamomile 21 " 

Zedoary Root 2f " 

Galanga Root 2\ " 

Bitter Orange Peels 10 " 

Lemon Peel 10 " 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



(c) Essences for Aromatic Waters (Simple Mixtures) 



40. Bulgarian Mastic Essence 

(Raki) 

(1 oe. per gallon) 

Mastic 6 d. 

Alcohol 21b. 

Dissolve, and add 

Oil of Cognac 5 drops 

" " Neroli 5 " 

" " Star Anise 2} os. 

" " Anise 8J " 

Pure Rum 1 lb. 

Wine Brandy 1 " 

Alcohol _5 " 

10 lb. 

41. Tubkish Mastic Essence 

(Raki) 

(1 ox. per gallon) 

Mastic 4 oi. 

Alcohol 2 lb. 

Dissolve, and add 

Oil of Coriander J dr. 

" " Sweet Orange | " 

Tincture Ambergris 2 " 

Oil of Anise 3 oi. 

" " Star Anise 5 " 

Wine Brandy 1] " 

Alcohol 6 " 

10 lb. 

42. Essence for Rose Liqueur 
(1 oi. per gallon) 

Vanillin 1 dr. 

Oil of Lemon 4 " 



Oil of Sweet Orange 8 dr. 

" " Rose 8 " 

Alcohol 6} lb. 

Dissolve and add 

Grape Tincture 1 " 

Wine Brandy 1 " 

Orange Flower Water lj " 

About 10 lb. 

43. Essence fob Violet Liqueur 

(1 os. per gallon) 

Vanillin J dr. 

Oil of Cinnamon \ dr. 

" " Neroli 1 " 

Ionone (10% solution) 1 " 

Alcohol 1} lb. 

Dissolve and add 

Orris Root Tincture 31b. 

Water 4 " 

Filter the mixture with infusorial 
earth, and add to the clear filtrate 

Pineapple Essence 1 lb. 

Wine Brandy 1 " 

101b. 

44. Compound Liqueur Oil FOB 

Rose Liqueur 
(To be used like the compound oils 
in general.) 

Oil of Rose 1 os. 

" " Lemon 1 " 

" " Sweet Orange 1 " 

Absolute Alcohol 13) " 

1 lb. 



262 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



Composition of Aromatic Waters Using Vegetable Distillates, or 
Essences Made from Volatile Oils from Liqueur Oils 

In case of Vegetable Distillates J gallon for 10 gallons,* or of Essences 
from Volatile Oils (10 ounces per gallon). 



formula 
No. 



3 



34 
4 9 



30 
«• 

40 

41 
«• 
7* 

43 
44* 

43 
•• 

10 # 

26 

30 

11* 

37 

12 # 

38 

39 

30 

31 

33 

33 

13 # 

14 # 

84 

35 

88 

87* 

18 

15 # 

17 # 

38 

18* 

89 



Alkermes 

Baal Water 

Captain Watar 

Carmelite Spirit 

Christopbelet 

Danaif Cordial 

•• •« 
Medoo Cordial 

Dansig Golden Watar 

•• •• i« 

Bulgarian Mastic (Raid)... 

Turkiah Maatio 

Munich Railway Liqueur.. 
Rita Balaam 

Roaa Liqueur 

Violet Liqueur 

Water Cress 

French Specialtie* 

Eau de Celeste 

" " Batave 

" " Bouquet 

" " laCote 

" " Fantaisie 

" des Favorites 

" d'Orient 

" deParadise 

" "Portugal 

" "Sultan 

" Divine 

Parfait d 'Amour 

<< it 

Bitter Aromatic Water* 

Bavarian Alpine Herbs 

Bitters 

Bertram Bitters 

Brahma Bitters 

Carminative Liqueur 

Danzig Cordial 

Danzig Cordial Drops 

Berlin Double Bitters 

Elixir de Spaa 

Greek Bitters 

Kontuasowka (Polish 

Bitters) 

Krambambuli 

White Stomach Water 



Alcohol 
under- 
proof, 
dag. 



24 
31 
34 

17 
17 



19 



31 
31 
16 
16 
34 
34 

34 
34 

34 
22 

34 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 



19 
15 

15 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 

19 
21 



Quan- 
tity of 



or dis- 
tillate. 



10 os. 

ft 1*1. 
10 oa. 

ftial. 
* " 
ft " 

10 oa. 
10 " 



tsal. 

10 OB. 

10 " 

10 " 

10 " 

10 " 

10 " 

10 " 

10 " 

10 " 



10 



10 



ft gal 

ft " 



10 



ft 1*1. 



ft 1*1. 
ft " 
ft " 
ft " 
ft " 
ft " 



10 



10 OB. 

ft gal. 

ft " 
ft " 

10 OB. 

ft gal. 

10 OB. 

10 " 
ft gal. 

10 OB. 

ft gal. 
10 os. 



Alcohol 
38 a 

over- 
proof. 



Gal. 

3ft 
3ft 
3ft 
31 
31 
3ft 

3| 

3ft 



3ft 
31 

4ft 
4ft 
3ft 
3ft 

3ft 
3ft 
3ft 
31 

3ft 

3 

3 

3ft 

3 

3ft 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3ft 



3} 
4ft 

4ft 

3ft 
31 
3ft 
31 
81 
3ft 

81 
3ft 
31 



Syrup 
sugar, 

60%. 



Gal. 

3ft 
3 
1 
3 

8 
1ft 

lft 

3ft 



3 
3 

1 
1 
3 

8 

8 
3 

4 
3ft 

3 

8 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 



lft 
1 

3ft 

3 

1 

1 
1 
ft 

lft 

1 

lft 
3 



Water. 



Gal. 

3ft 

31 



3ft 

3ft 

41 

4ft 

3ft 



41 
4ft 
5 

6 
6 
4 

4 
4 
3 
3 

4 

4ft 

4J 

4 

4ft 

4J 

4ft 

4ft 

4ft 

4ft 

4ft 

4ft 

4 



6 
4ft 

3ft 
41 
5ft 
«1 

51 

8 

61 

6ft 
6ft 
4ft 



Color and 

other 
additions. 



light 

red 

red 

yellow-green 

red 

ft gal. cherry 

juke 
ft gaL cherry 

juice 
ft gal. cherry 

juice and ft 

gal. claret 



violet 

dark brown or 
yellow 



violet 
yellowish-groan 

light-yellow 



light-green 

yellow 

violet 



colorless 

light-gx 

yellow 

dark red 

yellow 

red 

red 



brown-green 
ft gal. cherry 

juice 
brown 
red-brown 



brown 

green-yellow 

green 

red-brown 

i« 

colorless 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUOR, ETC. 263 

V. Bitter Liqueurs with Extractive Taste 
The liquors of this group are in general manufactured by per- 
colation and direct extraction of drugs; in some cases these ex- 
tracts are fortified with volatile oils. 

The following formulas are all calculated ou the basis of 10 lb. 
of drugs, and with a final yield of 20 lb. of essence, but the quantity 
of the essence to be used varies between 1 and 2 oz. per gallon. 
General Method for Extracting Drugs (Method A) 
Macerate 10 lb. of the well-ground and mixed drugs in a per- 
colator with the following medium : 

Alcohol t gal. 

Water 1 " 

Wine Brandy 1 pint 

This last is added for refining purposes. Allow to stand for 
3 days, and afterwards collect, observing the rules of percolation 
with the necessary further pouring on of sufficient water, 1 J gallon 
first percolate. Set this aside, and then pour more water over 
the drugs until 1 gallon of after-percolate is obtained, which is 
placed in a still, and rectified to a yield of about J gallon. 
, The first percolate and the distilled rectificate of the after- 
percolate are then mixed, and if their weight does not reach 20 lb., 
make up to this weight with alcohol. 

Distil off the alcohol remaining in the drugs and use it for a 
similar maceration. It is often possible to avoid this redistilling 
of the alcohol when only the first percolate — 1$ gallons — is 
collected, and the total remainder then placed with" sufficient 
water in a still and distilled off. The distillate will be cloudy, 
and will contain undissolved oils, and it is necessary to dilute it 
to about 17 to 20° underproof and to filter by means of infusorial 
earth. The clear nitrate is now rectified, and the percolate and 
this rectificate are united, and if necessary made up with alcohol 
to the final weight of 20 lb. 

When only small quantities of drugs are percolated, it suffices 

to obtain only one percolate of 20 lb. from each 10 lb. drugs. 

Extraction Method with Part Employment op Volatile 

Oils 

The Solution of the Volatile Oik, {Method B) 

The volatile oik which are to l>e used to fortify or else flavor 
the essence must be brought into a soluble, non-clouding form, 



It 
it 



264 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

named "oil-spirit" or "esprit." The quantities in the formulas 
are calculated as in Method A for 10 lb. drugs, which yield in every 
case 20 lb. essence. The necessary volatile oils are dissolved in 
$ gallon alcohol, and distilled with 1 gallon of water with return 
of distillate. Afterwards distil off 1 gallon, and filter clear by 
means of infusorial earth to remove the last traces of terpenes. 
This solution can be added to any percolate, or employed as in 
Method C, below. 

Extraction with Employment op Oii/-Spirit (Method C) 

Oil-Spirit 1 gal. 

Alcohol J 

Water J 

Wine Brandy (as refinement) 1 pint 

With this percolate, according to Method A, 10 lb. of drugs to 
the final yield of 20 lb. of essence. 

Compound Liqueub Oils for Bitters 

Except oil of wormwood, volatile oils have no pronounced bitter 
taste, and the employment of compound liqueur oils is limited 
to their use as aromatic fortifiers of extracts from bitter drugs. 
Employ them as described under Method B. Colorless prepara- 
tions are to be manufactured from such compound oils according 
to the formulas for aromatic waters. 

With regard to the kinds of bitters, these are distinguished accord- 
ing to their aromatic taste. The light bitter essences of which 
the aromatic taste is predominant are called Aromatic Bitters, as 
against the Strong Bitters with a specific bitter, but little aromatic, 
taste. Between these are the so-called Stomach Bitters, in which 
both tastes are well proportioned. 

(a). Aromatic Bitters Essences 

Percolation without Volatile Oils. {Method A) 

1. Altvater Liqueur Essence 2. Angelica Essence 

(Austrian) (2 oz. per gallon) 

(2 oz. per gallon) Am^ j lb. 

Orris Root 2 oz. Fennel J " 

Hyssop Herb 2 " Coriander J" 

IvaHerb 1* lb. Bitter Orange Fruit J" 

Angelica Root 1J " Angelica Seed 1J " 

Orange Flowers 1J " Angelica Root 7 " 

Curacao Peel 2$ " 10 lb. 

Angelica Seed 2} " 

10 lb. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



265 



3. Abouatiqoe Essence 

(Thuringian specialty) 

(2 oi. per gallon) 

Mmce 3 ob. 

Cardamom 3 " 

Cloves 4 " 

Cubebs 4 " 

Leurel Berries 4 " 

Peppermint Leaves 6 " 

Angelica Root 6 " 

Gentian Root 6 " 

Balm Leaves 6 " 

ZedoaryRoot 7 " 

Allspice 7 " 

Cinnamon Flowers 8 " 

Ginger 10 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 10 " 

Calamus Root 12 " 

Roman Chamomile 1 lb. 

CuracaoPeel 1} " 



Root. . 



li " 

10 lb. 



4. Carlsbad Bitters Essence 
(1 ob. per gallon) 

Nutmeg 1 o 

Cardamom 2 ' 

Mace 4 • 

Lemon Peel 5 ' 

Galanga Root 6 ' 

Elecampane Root 6 ' 

Cloves 6 ' 

Auspice 6 ' 

Cinnamon Flower 8 ' 

Wormwood Leaves 10 ' 

Centaury Herb 10 ' 

Cassia Cinnamon 12 ' 

Tansy Flowers. ... 
Angelica Root .... 

Gentian Root 

Sweet Orange Peel. 



1 lb. 



5. CONTENT Bitters Essence 

(1 oi. per gallon) 
Cardamom 4 os 



Cassia Cinnamom 12 oi. 

Cloves 12 " 

Gentian Root 1 lb. 

Calamus Root 1 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 1 " 

Lemon Peel 1 " 

Balm Leaves lj " 

Peppermint Leaves 2J " 

101b. 



6. Halt om Half Essence 
(Dutch Specialty) 
(2 <«. per gallon) 

Cardamom 4 oi. 

Cinnamon 4 " 

Angostura Bark 4 " 

CuracaoPeel lj lb. 

Sweet Orange Peel 7] " 

10 lb. 



7. Hartz Bitters Essence 
(2 ob. per gallon) 

Nutmeg 3 ob. 

Ginger 5 " 

Cinnamon 8 " 

Cloves 8 " 

CascariUa Bark 1 lb. 

Gentian Root li " 

Bitter Orange Fruits 2 " 

Calamus Root 4 " 

10 lb. 



8. Hdnt Bitters Essence 
(1 ob. per gallon) 

Mace 4 os. 

Cinnamon 4 " 

Tonka Beans 8 " 

Calamus Root 8 " 

Star Anise 1 lb. 

Peppermint Leaves 71 " 

10 1> 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



8, Italian Bitters Essence 

(2 oe. per gallon) 

Rosemary Leaves 2 as. 

Thyme 5 " 

Sage 5 " 

Majoram 5 " 

Cloves 7 " 

Cinnamon 8 " 

Orris Root 12 " 

Wormwood Leaves 12 " 

Fennel 12 " 

CsJamuBRoot 12 " 

Anise 12 " 

Buckbean Leaves 1 lb. 

Angelica Root 1 " 

Lemon Peel 1 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 1} " 

10 lb. 



10. Iva Bitters Essence 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Mace 1 o 

Cardamom ) ' 

Coriander 2 

Calamus 2 

Angelica Seed 3 

Balm Herb 3 

Angelica Root 4 

Gentian Root 5 

Iva Herb 8} lb. 

10 lb. 



11. Kischinepf Essence 
(Russian Specialty} 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Mace 3 os. 

Ginger 3 " 

Anise 6 " 

Cloves 8 " 

Balm Leaves 12 " 

Calamus Root 1 lb. 

Hop Flower 1 " 



Angelica Root 1 lb. 

Cassia Cinnamon 1} " 

Curacao Peel 3) " 

10 lb. 



12. Malakoff Essence 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Capsicum Fruit 2 ot. 

Fennel 2 " 

Elecampane Root 2) " 

Valerian Root 2J " 

Anise ;.. 2} " 

Cascarilla Bark 3) " 

Angelica Root 7 " 

Cloves 7 " 

Common Yarrow Leaves. . 8 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 8 " 

lioiiiiin Cliiimrjniili- Flowers 8 " 

Holy Thistle Herb 10 " 

Cinnamon Flowers 12 " 

Wormwood Leaves 14 " 

Curasao Peels 15 " 

Gentian Root 1 lb. 

Peppermint Leaves 1J " 

Calamus Root lj " 

10 b. 



13. Moqadore Essence 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Nutmeg 2 m. 

Cardamom 2 " 

Allspice 6 " 

Holy Thistle 6 " 

Pyrethrum Root 8 " 

Gentian Root 8 " 

Valerian Root 8 " 

Calamus Root 8 " 

Wormwood 8 " 

Cloves 8 " 

Cinnamon Flowers 8 " 

Balm Leaves 1 Mb. 

Lemon Peel 2$ " 

Bitter Orange Peel 2J " 



I MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



14. Royal Bittehs Essence 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Fennel 6 os. 

Coriander 6 " 

Cloves 8 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 6 " 

Bitter Orange Peel ijlb. 

Lemon Peel 1} " 

CalisayaBark..... 1} " 

Peppermint 2 " 

BalmLeaves 2j " 



15. Sabxpta Essence 
(11 os. per gallon) 

Pyrethrum Root 

Sage Muacade 

Laurel Berries 

Cinnamon 

Black Mustard Seed 

Gentian Root 

Paradise Grams. . 

Cubebs 

Lovage Root 

Galanga Root 



12 " 
1J lb. 

2i " 
3) "_ 
10 lb. 



16. Stonsdorp Bitter 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Cloves 3 

Angelica Root 3 



Gentian Root 4 

Wormwood Leaves 4 

Galanga Root 4 

Zedoary Root S 

Coriander 8 

Calisaya Bark 8 

Curacao Peel 8 

Bitter Orange Fruit 8 

Star Anise 1 

Carob 

Black Bilberries... 



U " 

u » 

2j " 
10 lb. 



17. UBQUEBAUQH ESSENCE 

(Scotch Specialty) 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Nutmeg 4 os. 

Mace i " 

Coriander 6 " 



Orris Root 8 " 

Calamus Root 8 ' 

Angelica Root 8 ' 

Juniper Berries 12 ' 

Balm Leaves 1 II 

Bitter Orange Fruit 1 ' 

Bitter Almonds 1 ' 

Lemon Peel 3 ' 



Percolation with Addition op Volatile Oils (Method C) 



18. Benemctine Essence 
(1 os. per gallon) 
Oil-Spirit from 

Oil of Coriander 1 os. 

" " Cardamom 1 " 

" " Galanga 2 " 

" " Peppermint 2 " 

" " Wormwood 31 " 

" " Lemon 4 " 

Vegetable*: 

Tonka Beans 2 os. 

Calamus Root 3 " 



Thyme Herb 3 

Cinnamon 4 

Mace 4 

Cloves 4 

Arnica Flowers 6 

Angelica Root. . . . 
Amber Grains .... 
Angelica Seeds. . , . 

Peppermint 

Hyssop Leaves .... 
Wormwood Herb. . 
Balm Leaves 



lib 
1 " 
H " 
11 " 
U " 



268 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



19. Carpathian Bitters Essence 

(Hungarian Specialty) 

(1} oz. per gallon) 

Oil-Spirit from 

Oil of Mace i oz. 

" " Curacao 2 " 

" " Bitter Orange 2 " 

14 " Wormwood 2 " 

" " Calamus 3 " 

Vegetables: 

Cinnamon 3 os. 

Cloves 5 " 

Gentian Root 1 lb. 

Curacao Peel li " 

Holy Thistle li " 

Calamus Root 1} 

Buckbean Leaves 1} 

Bitter Orange Peel 1J " 

Wormwood Herb 1 J " 

10 lb. 



20. Chartreuse Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil-Spirit from 

Oil of Lemon J oz. 

11 " Balm J " 

Wormwood J " 

" Hyssop J " 

" " Angelica 1 " 

" " Coriander 1 " 



« 



(4 



tt it 
it 



Vegetables: 

Mace 2 

Cloves 2 

Cinnamon 3 

Cardamom 3 

Paradise Grains 4 

Star Anise 5 

Angelica Root 5 

Calisaya Bark 8 

Wormwood 8 

Balm Herb 12 

Ginger 12 

Calamus Root 1 



oz. 

tt 

n 
a 
n 
tt 
n 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 

lb. 



u 



tt 



IvaHerb 1J lb. 

Angelica Seed li 

Coriander 2\ 

10 lb. 

21. English Bitters Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil-Spirit from 

Oil of Celery 2 oz. 

Rosemary 2 " 

Lavender 2 " 



u a 



*t tt 



Vegetables: 

Thyme Herb 

Centaury Herb 

Buckbean Leaves 

Angelica Root 

Cubebs 

Wormwood 

Common Yarrow Flowers . 

Cloves 

Cassia Cinnamon 

Anise 

Calamus Root 



3 


oz. 


6 


« 


6 


tt 


6 


n 


9 


u 


9 


n 


9 


a 


1 


lb. 


2 


«i 


2 


u 


2 


u 



101b. 



22. Fine Bitters Essence 
(1 oz. per gallon) 
Oil-Spirit from 
Oil of Neroli J dr. 



" " Bitter Orange 

" " Lemon 

" " Wormwood . . . 

" " Angelica 

" " Cinnamon 



oz. 

a 

tt 
tt 



Vegetables: 

Wormwood Herb J lb. 

Holy Thistle i " 

Juniper Berries } 

Pyrethrum Root } 

Angelica Root 1 

Buckbean Leaves 1 

Cloves 1 

Roman Chamomiles 1 

Lemon Peel 2 

Bitter Orange Peel 2 



a 



tt 



tt 



tt 



it 



tt 



tt 



tt 



10 lb. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



23. Mobbau Bimn Essence 
(1 oa. per gallon) 



Oil-Spirit bom 

Oil of Cardamom 1 

" " HorBemint J 

- " Wormwood 2 

** " Cassia Cinnamon. . . 3 

' Mace 5 

' Calamus 6 

' Angelica 6 

' Cloves 7 

' Anise U 



' Bitter Orange 2 

Vegetable*: 

Nutmeg 8 a*. 

Cloves 8 " 

.Galanga Root 11 lb. 

BHter Orange Peel 1J " 

Quassia Wood 3 " 

Bitter Orange Fruit 3 " 

10 lb. 



24. Spanish Bitters Essence 
(1 oj. per gallon) 
OS-Spirit tram 

Oil of Roman Chamomiles 1 dr. 

" " Cassia Cinnamon. . . 1 OS. 

" " Wormwood 1 

" " Angelica 1 

" " Clovea 11 

" " Juniper 2 

" " Balm 2J 

" " Calamus 5 

" " Bitter Orange 5 

Vegetables: 

Marjoram Leaves 2 ■ 

Cloves 3 

Roman Chamomiles 3 

e Boot 5 



Zedoary Root 5 

Coriander 5 

Juniper Berries 5 

Peppermint Leaves 6 

Buckbean Leaves 6 

Cascarilla Bark 6 

Gentian Root 9 

Wormwood Herb 10 

Angelica Root 10 

Centaury Herb 10 

GalangaRoot 14 

Calamua Root 1 lb. 

Bitter Orange Peels 

Fruits 1} ' 

10 lb. 



25. Spice Bitter Essence 
(1 oz. per gallon) 
Oil-Spirit from 

Oil of Petit Grain | or.. 

" " Allspice J " 

" " Cassia Cinnamon. . . 1 " 

" " Pepper 1 " 

" " Lovage Root 1 " 

" " Common Yarrow, . . 1 " 

" " Bitter Orange 1J " 

" " Sweet Orange 31 " 

Vegetable: 

Gentian Root 

Angelica Root 

Peppermint Leaves 

Coriander ] ib. 

Galanga Root 1 " 

Auspice i " 

Calamus Root 11" 

Ginger 11 ■■ 

Lemon Peel 11 '' 

Bitter Orange Peel 2 

10 Ib. 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY ' 



(6) Stomach Bitters 
Percolation without Essential Oils [Method A) 



26. Aqcavita Essence 
(1 oi. per gallon) 

Cloves 1 ■ 

Nutmeg 1 

Cinnamon 2 

Gentian Root 8 

Angelica Root 10 

Galanga Root 10 

Centaury Herb 1 

Buckbean Leaves 1 

Zedoary Root 1 



Wo; 



od 



Holy Thistle Herb 1 " 

Lemon Peel 11 " 

Bitter Orange Peel U " 

10 lb. 

27. BoONECAHP OP MAAOBriTERB 

(Dutch Specialty) 
(2 os. per gallon) 

Saffron 2 OI. 

Cloves 3 " 

Angelica Root 3 " 

Gentian Root 4 " 

Wormwood Herb 4 " 

Galanga Root 4 " 

Coriander i " 

Calisaya Bark 8 " 

Calamus Root S " 

Zedoary Root 8 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 12 " 

GuaiactVood 12 " 

Bitter Orange Fruits 12 " 

'Manna 12 " 

Star Anise 1 lb. 

Licorice Root 11" 

Carob 1) " 

10 lb. 

28. Carminative Bitters 

Essence 

(2 ox. per gallon) 

Cardamom 1 lb. 

Cloves 1 " 



Cubeba lib. 

Cinnamon 1 " 

Galanga Root 1 1 " 

OnisRoot 11 " 

Ginger 11 " 

Calamus Root 11 " 

Bitter Orange Fruits 3 " 

10 lb. 
29. Cholera Bitters Essence 
(2 as. per gallon.) 

Cinnamon Bark 1 lb. 

Angelica Root 1 " 

Gentian Root 1 " 

Zedoary Root 1 " 

Centaury Herb 1 " 

Galanga Root 1 " 

Buckbean Leaves 1 " 

Peppermint Leaves. 1) " 

Bitter Orange Fruit 3 " 

10 lb. 

30. Doctor Bitters Essence 
(2 oi. per gallon) 

Cardamom 21 OS. 

Galanga Root 2fc " 

Paradise Grains 3 " 

Cinnamon Flowers 4 " 

Coriander 4 " 

Cinnamon 4 " 

Cloves 4 " 

AngelicaRoot 4 " 

Nutmeg 4 " 

Quassia Wood 6 " 

Mace 6 " 

Wormwood 6 " 

Gentian Root 6 " 

White Cinnamon 6 " 

Bitter Orange Fruit 8 " 

Bilberries 12 " 

Allspice 8 

Lemon Peel 12 " 

Curacao Peel 11 

Bitter Orange Peel 2) ". 

lTTb! 



TBE MANTTACTCHE OF LIQUORS. ETC. 



271 



Clove* 

Curacao Peel 

Bitter Orange Fruit . . 



31. Electoral Stomach Brrms 

Ebb«s-ck IDanng Specialty J 

(2 o*. per gallon) 

Elecampane Boot J lb. 

lv» Herb 1 • 

Gentian Root 1 " 

- U " 

u - 

2| " 

* " 

10 lb. 



33. Fernet Branca Essence 

(Milan Specialty) 

(2 oa. per gallon) 

Cardamom .............. 3 oi. 

Lemon Pcd 5 " 

Iva Herb 8 " 

CuracaoPeeJ 10 " 

CalisayaBark 10 " 

Angelica Root 12 " 

OrriaRoot I lb. 

Wormwood Herb 1\ " 

Calamus Root l{ " 

Bitter Orange Peel 1) " 

Gentian Root ^ " 

10 lb. 



Wormwood Herb 6 <m. 

Galanga Root 6 " 

Gentian Root 6 " 

Pyrethram Root 1 lb. 



Cinnamon. 

CalisavaBark 

Angelica Root 

Balm Leaves 

Lemon Peel 

Bitter Orange Pee).. 



1 " 
i " 

I - 

i - 
H- 

10 lb. 



35. Kciawian Stomach Dwirw 

Essence 
(2 or. per gallon) 

Tonka Beans 2 oa. 

Mace i " 

Paradise Grains 4 " 

Cassia Cinnamon ti 

Allspice » " 

Galanga Root 1 lit. 

Gentian Root It " 

Bitter Orange Peel U " 

Bitter Orange Fruit 1) ■' 

Cloves 11 " 

Ginger 1| " 

10 lb. 



33. Grottto Abstnth Bitters 

(Dutch Specialty) 

(2 oi. per gallon) 

Coriander Seed ) lb. 

Angelica Root I " 

Wormwood 1 " 

Gentian Root 1 " 

Calamus Root 7} " 

10 lb. 

34. IfjcREDiEis-r Stomach Bitters 
(2 o*. per gallon) 

Cinnamon Flower 4 or. 

Cloves 4 " 

Allspice 5 " 

Roman Chamomiles 5 " 

Centaury Herb 6 " 

Valerian Root 6 " 



36. Malta Knkihth' Hittkhh 

Ehhknck 

(2oi. pergnlluii) 

Tonka Beans 

Sage Leaves. ..... 

Marjoram Ilcrh. . . 

Calamus Root 

Ginger 

Elder Flower 

Buckhean Herb. . . 
Angelina Root .... 
Cassia Cinnamon. . 

Zedoary Root .... 

Galanga Root .... 
Gentian Root 



10 lb. 



272 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



37. Mu8cade Bitters Essence 
(2 or. per gallon) 

Arnica Flowers 1 lb. 

Ginger 

Angostura Bark 

Cloves 

Common Yarrow Flowers. 

Iva Herb 

Mace 1 

Bitter Orange Fruit 1 

Calamus Root 1 

Centaury Herb 3 



10 lb. 



38. Old Swedish Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

Remark: The original formulas 
contain a large amount of aloes and 
agaric, but because of their injurious 
effect these ingredients are here 
omitted. 



Cloves 3 os. 

GalangaRoot 7 " 

ZedoaryRoot 10 " 

Star Anise 10 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 10 " 

Lemon Peel 12 " 

Coriander Seed 12 " 

Gentian Root 1} lb. 

Bitter Orange Fruit If " 

Bitter Orange Peel 2J " 

10 lb. 

39. Tonic Stomach Bittebs 
Essence 

(2 os. per gallon) 

Elecampane Root 1 lb. 

Centaury Herb . 1 } " 

Holy Thistle Herb 1J w 

Buckbean Leaves 1J " 

Galanga Root 2 " 

Gentian Root 2j " 

10 lb. 



Percolation with Addition of Volatile Oils {Method C) 



40. Universal Bitters Essence 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Nutmeg 2 oz. 

Coriander Seed 2 " 

Wormwood 2 " 

Calamus Root 2 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 4 " 

Fennel Seed 4 " 

Angelica Root 4 " 

Cinnamon Flowers 4 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 4 " 

Cardamom 4 " 

Gentian Root 5 " 

Bilberries 5 " 

Bitter Orange Fruits 6 " 

Star Anise 8 " 

Cubebs 8 " 

ZedoaryRoot 8 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 8 " 

Cloves 1 lb. 

Curasao Peel 1 " 



Ginger 1 oi. 

Carob 1" 

Calanga 1 " 

10 0). 
41. Alpine Herbs Bitters 

E88ENCB 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Oil-Spirit from: 

Oil of Cloves 3 dr. 

" " Mace 5" 

" " Wormwood 5" 

" " Coriander 5" 

" " Angelica 5 " 

" " Peppermint 5 " 

" " Cinnamon 6" 

" " Calamus 8" 

" " Lemon 4 os. 

" " Sweet Orange 4 " 

" Bitter Orange 5 " 



M 




THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



Vegetables: 

Coriander 5 

Calamus Root IS 

Wormwood Herb 15 

Marjoram Leaves 15 

Thyme Herb 15 

Juniper Berries 15 

Peppermint Leaves 1J 

Angelica Root 11 ' 

Bitter Orange Peel 

10 lb. 

42. Bavarian Herbs Stomach 

Bitteks Essence 

(Graefenlian Type) 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Oil-Spirit from: 

Oil of Cloves 1J dr. 

Mace 3 " 

Valerian Root 6 " 

Fennel 9 " 

Lemon 2 o*. 

Angelica 2 " 



. 



' Sweet Orange 4 



Vegetables: 
Cardamom 

Caraway 

Cassia Cinnamon . . , 

Coriander. 

Calamus Root 

Swecl Orange Peel. , 
Bitter " " . . 

Angelica Root 

Gentian Root 



Oil-Spirit: 

Oil of Angelica 

" ■ Allspice 

" " Sweet Orange . 



Vegetables: 
Bitter Orange Fruit . , 

Zedoary Root 

Bitter Orange Peel. . 
Gentian Root 



44. Stomach Bitters Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 
Oil-Spirit from: 

Oil of Bitter Orange 1* o». 

" " Lemon lj " 

" " Sweet Orange 2\ " 

Vegetables: 

Cloves J lb. 

Holy Thistle 1 " 

Pyrethrum Root 1 " 

Buckbean Herb 1 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 2 " 

Lemon Peel 2\ " 

Gentian Root 2j " 

10 lb. 

45. Swiss Herb Stomachic 
Bitters Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 
Oil-Spirit from: 

Oil of Juniper 6 dr. 

" " Cloves 9 " 

" " Cinnamon 9 " 

" " Wormwood 1 oz. 

" " Sweet Orange 1 " 

" " Lemon 1 " 

" " Calamus 21" 

Vegetables: 

Paradise GrainH 3 oz. 

Angelica Seed 4 " 

Angelica Root 6 " 

Calisaya Bark fl " 

Ginger 8 " 

GnaiacWood 9 " 

Balm Leaves 12 " 

Valerian Root 1 lb. 

Calamus Root 1 " 

Wormwood 11 " 

Lemon Peel 11 " 

Bitter Orange Peel. . 

10 




274 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



(c) Strong Bitters 
Percolation without Volatile Oils {Method A) 



46. Angostura Essence 



(2 oz. per gallon) 

Galanga Root 

Zedoary Root 

Carob 

Cardamom 

Ginger 

Calisaya Bark 

Lemon Peel 

Cloves 

Bitter Orange Fruit 

Tonka Beans 

Cinnamon Bark 

Bitter Orange Peel 

Angostura Bark 



4 
4 



1 
1 
1 
1 
21 



oz. 

<< 

lb. 

it 
tt 
tt 
a 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
it 



10 lb. 



47. Beer Bitters Essence 



(Bitters Extract) 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Cloves 

Cascarilla Bark 

Cassia Cinnamon 

Quassia Wood 

Bitter Orange Peel 

Bitter Orange Fruit 

Galanga Root 

Chiretta Herb 

Wormwood 

Holy Thistle Herb 

Buckbean Leaves 



Jib 
i " 
i " 
i " 

} u 

t" 

1 
1 

n " 

u «• 

u " 

10 lb. 



it 
it 



48. Capuchin Liqueur Essence 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Cardamom 2 oz. 

Sassafras Wood 4 " 

Cloves 5 " 

Valerian Root 5 " 



Ginger 

Zedoary Root . . . 
Galanga Root . . . 
Angelica Root . . . 

Star Anise •. 

Buckbean LeaVes 

Curasao Peel 

Gentian Root 



Jib. 

I" 

1" 

1" 

1" 

H" 

U" 

3 



« 



10 lb. 



49. Daubitz Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

Anise J lb. 

Fennel J 

Cloves 1 

Cinnamon 1} 

Peppermint 1 } 

Angelica Root 1} 

Galanga Root 1} 

Gentian Root 2 



a 



u 



u 



a 



tt 



tt 



it 



10 lb. 



50. Elixir ad Lonoam Vitam 
Essence (Elixir of Long life) 

(2 os. per gallon) 

Saffron 2 

Cassia Cinnamon 4 

Cloves 6 

Myrrh 7 

Nutmeg 7 

Anise 10 

Zedoary Root 1J 

Bitter Orange 1J 

" Fruit 1J 

Galanga Root 1J 

Gentian Root 2 



tt 
a 
it 
tt 

lb. 

tt 

tt 
tt 
*t 



. 10 lb. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



275 



51. Hamburg Bitters Essence 
(1 os. per gallon) 

Black Pepper } oz. 

Cardamom 3J " 

Nutmeg 4 " 

Cloves 8 " 

Laurel Berries 8 " 

ZedoaryRoot 8 " 

Ginger 8 " 

Gentian Root 12 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 12 " 

Bitter Orange Fruits 12 " 

Buckbean Leaves li " 

Centaury Herb 1J " 

GalangaRoot 2} " 

10 lb. 



52. Helgoland Bitters Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

Quassia Wood 2 oz. 

Cardamom 3 " 

Valerian Root 3 " 

Laurel Berries 4 " 

Calamus Root 4 " 

Centaury Herb J lb. 

Cloves J " 

Cassia Cinnamon }"' 

Anise i " 

ZedoaryRoot 1 " 

GalangaRoot 1 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 2 " 

Gentian Root 3 " 

10 lb. 



53. Hop Bitters Essence 
(2 oz. per gallon) 

Wormwood J lb. 

Centaury Herb 1 " 

Gentian Root 1 " 

Hope 7t " 

10 lb. 



54. Indian Bitters Essence 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Centaury Herb J lb. 

Curacao Peel f " 

Chiretta Herb, Indian 8} " 

10 lb. 

55. Ivan Bitters Essence 

(Russian Specialty) 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Nutmeg 4 oz. 

Allspice 4 " 

Ginger 8 " 

Juniper Berries 10 " 

AngebcaSeed 10 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 10 " 

Cloves 12 " 

Galanga Root 14 " 

Bitter Orange Fruit 1J lb. 

Peel 1J " 

Gentian Root 2\ " 

10 lb. 

56. Nelson Bitters Essence 

(1 oz. per gallon) 

Bitter Orange Fruit 1 lb. 

Calamus Root 2 " 

Zedoary Root 2 " 

Galanga Root 2 " 

Gentian Root 3 " 

10 lb. 

57. Podbipie*ta Essence (Polish 
Horsemen Liqueur) 

(2 oz. per gallon) 

Cloves 3 oz. 

Cinnamon Bark 5 " 

Coriander 5 " 

Quassia Wood 5 " 

Peppermint Leaves 10 " 

Horsemint Leaves 10 " 

Wormwood Herb 10 " 

Gentian Root 1 lb. 

Fennel 1 " 

Anise 1 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 4 " 

10 1b. 



276 MANUAL FOR THE 

58. Polish Bittebs Essence 
(1 oz. per gallon) 

Coriander 2 oi. 

Cloves 4 " 

Cassia Cinnamon 4 " 

Quassia Wood 8 " 

Elecampane Root 10 " 

Wonnwood Herb 1 lb. 

Orris Root I " 

Fennel U " 

Anise 11 " 

Horsemint Leaves ) j " 

Gentian Root 2J " 

10 lb. 

59. Calisaya Bitters Essence 

(Fever Drops Essence) 

(1 oi. per gallon) 

Bitter Orange Peel 3 or,. 

Ginger 3 " 

GalangaRoot 6 " 

GentianRoot 12 " 

Calisaya Bark 8j lb . 

10 lb. 

60. Root Bitters Essence 
(2 oe. per gallon) 

Rhubarb Root 4 lb. 

Galanga Root 1 " 

Ginger I " 

Angelica Root 1 " 

Zedoary Root 1 1 " 

Calamus Root 2 " 

Gentian Root 3 " 

10 lb. 



ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

61. Seam ens Bitters Ebsknci 
(2 oa. per gallon) 

Cardamom 3 m. 

Nutmeg 5 " 

Coriander 8 " 

Cinnamon J lb. 

Cloves 1 " 

Allspice I" 

Caraway 1 " 

Calisaya Bark 1 " 

Angelica Root 1J " 

Galanga Root i\ " 

Gentian Root 1J " 

Calamus Root 2] " 

lTlb. 



62. Samaritan Bittebs Esbenci 
(3 oi. per gallon) 

Calamus Root 6 m, 

Wormwood Herb.... 6 " 

Laurel Berries 6 " 

Orris Root 1" 

Zedoary Root 6 " 

Cloves 6 " 

Nutmeg 8 " 

Gentian Root 12 " 

Lemon Peel 12 " 

tagejfaftSoot 12 " 

C]i«;iu Cinnamon 1 lb, 

Curacao Peel 2 " 

Calisaya Bark 2 " 

101b. 



Percolates with Addition of Volatile Oils (Method C) 



63. Black Bitters Essence 
(2 oe. per gallon) 
Oil-Spiril from; 

Oil of Fennel I « 

" " Galanga 1 J " 

" " Sweet Orange 2 " 

" " Bitter Orange 6 " 



Vegetables: 

Gentian Root J os. 

GalangaRoot 1 " 

Bitter Orange Peel 1 " 

Elecampane Root 11 " 

Bitter Orange Fruit 5 " 

10 lb. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC, 



64. Giant Bitters Ess 
(2 os. per gallon) 
Oil-Spirit from: 


11 dr. 
lj " 
1| " 

6 " 

7 " 

7 " 

1 01. 

1 " 

2 •• 

2 " 

2 " 

3 " 
3 " 
3 " 
5 " 

10 " 
1 lb. 
1 " 
1 " 

I " 

II '■ 
11 » 
lj » 


65. Green Bitters Essence 
(lw. per gallon) 
Oil-Spirit from: 






2 " 


" " Cloves 


" " Horsemint 

" " Wormwood 

" " Sweet Orange. . . . 

Vegetables: 

Elecampane Root 

Balm Mint Leaves 


3 " 


Vegetable*: 

Elecampane Root 


3 " 

6 " 

. Hon. 

4 oz. 






Cinnamon Flowers 


Cinnamon Flowers 

Roman Chamomiles 






7 " 










Bitter Orange Peel 


13 " 






. U " 










Caliaayo Bark 


10 lb. 



(d) Compound Liqueur Oils for Bitters 

Employment: 1 oz. is sufficient for 1 lb. essence, of which 1 c 
is required to flavor a gallon of alcohol. 



66. Compound Liqueur Oil for 
Akouatique Liqueur 


Oil of Peppermint . , 


" " Lavender Flowers . . 6 " 
" " Wormwood fl " 







278 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



it 
tt 
tt It 



67. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Benedictine Liqueur 

Oil of Mace 1 oz. 

" " Cinnamon 1 ' 

" " Thyme 1 ' 

" " Balm 1 ' 

" " Calamus 1J ' 

" Angelica 2 * 

" Peppermint 2J ' 

Sweet Orange 2J ' 

" " Lemon 2f ' 

" " Wormwood 3 ' 

1 lb. 

68. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Carlsbad Bitters 

Oil of Sassafras 2 dr. 

" " Cassia 3 ' 

" " Cedar Wood 3 « 

" " Roman Chamomiles 6 ' 

" " Anise 6 ' 

" " Mace 6 ' 

" " Galanga 6 ' 

" " Cardamom 1 oz. 

" " Coriander 11 « 

" " Cloves 11 ' 

" " Cinnamon 1J ' 

" " Wormwood 2J * 

" " Lemon 21 ' 

" " Angelica 3j * 

1 lb. 

69. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Chartreuse Liqueur 

Oil of Rose 2 dr. 

" " Neroli 2 " 

" " Wormwood } oz. 

" " Mace 1 

" " Coriander 1 

" " Balm 11 

" " Cinnamon U 

" " AngeUca 21 

" "Sweet Orange 71 

1 lb. 

70. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Cholera Bitters 

Oil of Coriander 4 dr. 

" " Roman Chamomiles 5 " 



Oil of Lemon 5 dr. 

" " Bitter Orange 6 

" " Marjoram 6 

" " Thyme 6 

" " Anise 1 oi. 

Juniper 1 " 

Sweet Orange 2 " 

« " Calamus 2 " 

" " Cloves 2}" 

" " Angelica 2} « 

" " Wormwood 3 " 



tt u 
a tt 



u 
u 
a 



tt 
tt 



1 lb. 

71. Compound Liqueur Oil fob 
Electoral Bitters 

Oil of Gentian 1 oz. 

" " Cubebs 1 4< 

" " Cinnamon 1J ° 

" Anise 1J ° 

" Sweet Orange 11" 

Balsam of Peru 3 " 

Oil of Elecampane 31 " 

" " Bitter Orange 3JJ1 

1 0). 

72. Compound Liqueur Oil fob 
Enqush Bitters 

Oil of Cardamom } oi. 

" Wormwood 1 " 

" Coriander 1 " 

" Cinnamon 1 " 

" Calamus 1 " 

" " Star Anise 1 " 

" " Allspice 1 " 

" " Lemon 31 * 

" " Sweet Orange 8_ "_ 

1 0). 

73. Compound Liqueur Oil fob 

Fine Bitters 

Oil of Lemon 1 oft. 

" Cloves 1" 

" Balm 1 

" Chamomiles 2 

" Wormwood 2 

" Valerian 2 

" Galanga 2 

" Angelica 3 

" Sweet Orange 3_ 

1 lb. 



tt 



n 



tt 



n 



a 
tt 
tt 
a 
a 



nr* 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIiiCoRS. ETC 



279 



74. Compound Liquet* On. 
Hunt Bittebs 

Oil of Cloves J at. 

" " Mace 1 * 

" " Lemon 1 - 

" " Sweet Orange 1| - 

Celery li ■* 

Caraway 1J ■* 

Benxaldehyde 1J ** 

Oil of Wormwood 2 ■* 

" " Calamus 2 •* 

" " Peppermint 4 - 

1 lb. 



Liqueuk On. for 



« it 



« « 



7*5. CoilPOCJn: Ll^r-vr-a OlL *^a 

Oil «3i P^pprninr . . : :%. 

" •* B*im 
* * Coruiniier 

■* ■• Oarum 

~ •• Birr*»r ''jnaapt 
Benzaiiieir7 r itv 
Oil t£ CViv-s 

■• •* Cinnmnr.ii 
** ■• An«piira. 
" ■* Ouamiw 
- - W-.mw-v.i: 



75. Compound 

Spanish Brrmcs 



Oil of Lemon 


* 

1 


a. 






" " Coriander 




" " Spanish Origanum . 

Benzaldehyde 

OaofCekry 


r 

i " 


Oil --i ^ir A."...-* 1 




J 


" " Mace 


I ■ 


B^siiuiVr.- - > 




* 


" «• Calamus 


I • 


Ou ,l 'Mr,*- ^ 






" " Galanga. 

" u Curacao 

" " Wormwood.. 


2i 


• "S'-.rv.v-,o: 




mm 



1 Ji. 



: .h. 






•^ 

J 



/ 



XoT 1 



1 
1 

3 

r 

B4ff-! 

II 
»4#- 

S 

8475- 



L«v 



14 ;r 
I 



jN 'm Bitter Lairzr.t- 
For 10 za»lcmi. 



■J -it-,- -J * •■ -jj ' v *:*r 









:* 
:* 



:n 
:n 

y\ 
it 
.(» 

■» 
■ 

li 
i"i 

. I 
I 

jn 
:«i 
:*) 






• • 



4 



from 



^•^.zj^fts t*^* from £ompv i 






it 

*i 
U 

4 
J 
3 
i 
•J 






(TWU 






^ ; -^ 



• • 



:t ■ 






..• ...:•• •' "irr 
.jr.... " — U':J 

« • • 

-*:i:c> L::ht 






e .:*■ 



! C- 



•«ry 



.: % 



30 

43 

31 

71' 

44 

K 



i.::.:* :if*> 3*.*tp- 

ill u ~»« ■ *• lr 

"i»-3*.u*: " — <- '•*•■•*" 
Cvun. !»-:*-» 
CiiJien. 2..-t*> 
I **:<•• ?•:•■•*"•• 
Duvt h;*:«r* 
Iltacucu: >: car w 

friomar Yr*:*'. 
Kernel Bmii"- 
, i;rwlcnAh->:.:: *•*"- 
Ingredient H.r.*-* 
K\UA«»n Sterner. I*-** 
MhIi* Knight l*i:-.er* 

V;nnnteHi»* pfc 

S*e«li«h Hitter. 
^-* Alpine Uerbf Hire-? 
Bitten* 



■ i 



Ri/'.-r,.. 



•»• 

•j; 

M 
I- 
t 



-rree= 



i • .• » 



>.-:r:«2 



. «■ ■ ■ 
: -. «: 
_£! ■-; r.. *"* 

. **.-— ■» ■. 
- ;retfa 





. .- 




• • 




■ • 


■ 1- . .-.•».. 


.-» ^;'«er \.\-' 














"* m i 
















r« 


t 
* 


• 




. 


' " "•» :.-ireer. 


*. • • ** 


i" 




• 




4i 


■:..rii- ; r'-'A:. 


;. «» 


is 


_*i 


«: 




• 




^ 


1 19 


?» 


■ ? 

■■» 


* i 


P 


Tv-i-Sr^^n 


^ « 


V.» 


A' 


: *i 




<■" * 


ii.irk-riro«a 






2t« 


:\ 






brim r. 




2" 


H» 


2\ 


4 


" 


ycl low-green 




•t 


31 i 


a: 


^ 


4* 


re«l-hr«i»n 




* 


1 20 1 


4 


i» 


4i 


i:roen 




• 


s» 


3| 


i: 


* 
.1 


\ el low 






20 


3! ■ 


l* 


.*) 


brown 






20 


4 


ii , 


4: 


ilark-bron n 


■ 




10 


4 


i) 

i 


4; 


brown 


<^ 




> 


31 


i 


5! 


roil- brown 






• 


3* 


j 
i 


♦'i 


• 1 






f 


»! 


W 


:> 


brown 






. 


*i 


1 


:»i 


• • 








S 


1 li 


41 


■ a 



_ ^«v jaBBJfilMA^aM^vwt vi\\». 



0: ZT: 



W--_ -- ' - _ - 



U t . - - 
en--. _ 



cif -* 
Ii :.. 

T- 
v;Li' 



r - 



T .. . " ^ 



Per .i-r -r.-± If 
12" ur.itrpr>.« ;»:•_- 



.=: rjrf 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 
CoMPosrnoM of Bttteb Liquiuaa. — Continued 



KJK-liitu-IT Bitten 

Malakofl TlittWB 

Mocaooro 1-iqueur.. 

Moiwii " 

Ituyul H:in.ni 

Saiepla Ijqucur 

Spauiah Bitten 

Spin Bitten 

.■•touadolf Bitten 

Vequobaugb. . 

Slemxiic BiUtrt. 
Alpine lletbt Bitten 
Aquavit 

BoonAcanipnf Maachitlen 
Carminativ Liqueur 

mini nu m 

CV.olora Bitten. 

Dutch Bitten. . 

i;i«T,hr:il .-Mornaahio. . .... 

Mama (French) 

(iruilen Almynrlj Bitters 

Ingredient Bitten 

KiUiiniiin stomach Tlmpi 

Mall* Kniiht Bittern 

Muerade Bitten 

iil-i Suf-Jinb Bitten 

Sin-.- AlpiiiB I lorbo Billets 
I 'nivwmj Bitten.... 

Strmg Bitten. 

Ikw Bitten (Bitte 

Wet) 

Black Bit lam 

Capuchin Bitten. ... 
Deul.iu Bitten .. 
£lirir ad Lon*am Vit 

<iiant Bitten 

Green Bitten 

Jtambun; Bitten .... 
Helgoland Bitten... 

Bop Bitten.... 

Indian Bitten 

Nelaon Billon 

Podbipioto (Poliib Hone- 
men Liqueur].. . . 

PoIiahBltUn,. 

CaJiseyi Bitten 

Root Bitten 

ALFEtaritaD Bitten . . . 



i oJ. Bilberry 



yellow 

dark-brown 
licht-yeMo* 



dark-brawn 
yellow-creon 



* M uiiuf in: 1 u ml from essences made from compound liqueur oil*. 



THE MANUFACTU11E OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



VI. Types and Imitations of Genuine Liquors 
CORN WHISKY, ARRAC, COGNAC AND RUM 

(a) Grain Liquors 

Genuine grain liquors are manufactured by distilling the mash 
of grains, such as barley, rye, oats, wheat and buckwheat. The 
peculiar taste of grain alcohol is due to the presence of various 
higher homologues of alcohol, such as "fusel oils," and their 
varied taste is due to differences in the raw materials worked, as 
well as to manufacturing secrets. 

In the interest of the honest liquor trade the imitation of grain 
liquors should not be allowed, with exception of "cutting" strong 
grain liquors with industrial alcohol under limited conditions, 
and with declaration of such " cutting. " The use of fusel oil for 
producing an imitation of the taste, even in connection with the 
making of types, is to be frowned upon. However, it is usual 
to give the various kinds of grain liquors the types of well-known 
brands. There are in particular some spices for liquors, which 
differ according to the customs of the public in different countries. 
In most cases the distillers add the various spices, such as car- 
away, coriander, anise, fennel, etc., to the still after mashing. 
The following few formulas give only the composition of the 
volatile oils which are added after distilling the brandy: 



1. Spice for Grain Alcohol 
(Nordhausen Type) 

(1 os. per gallon Com Whisky} 

Cardamom 3j oz. 

Anise lj " 

Coriander 2 " 

Anise 6 " 

Coriander 12 " 

Curacao Peel 15 " 

Caraway 1 lb. 

Can* 1J " 

Light Dried Malt 2J " 

OakBark 21 " 

10 lb. 
Percolate with 20 lb. corn spirit 

' underproof, pouring on water as 




usual, to obtain 15 lb. Place the 
residue in the still with about 6 gal- 
lons water and slowly distil off 5 lb. 
distillate which are to be mixed with 
the percolate U> the final result of 
201b. 



2. SiLEaiAN Corn Whisky-Spice 
{I oz. per gallon Corn Spirit) 

Oil of Caraway 12 os 

" " Juniper 12 " 

Carob Tincture 1J 

Corn Spirit, Proof 7_ 




282 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



It it 



M 



3. Westphauan Corn Whisky- 
Spice 

(1 oz. per gallon Corn Spirit) 

Oil of Mace \ oz. 

" " Cloves i " 

" " Roman Chamomiles J " 

Cassia Cinnamon. . . \ " 

" Lemon 6} " 

Ethyl Acetate 8 " 

Alcohol 2 lb. 

Corn Spirit, Proof 7 " 

10 lb. 



4. Wheat-Corn Whisky-Spice 
(1 oz. per gallon) 

Oil of Star Anise 6 oz. 

" " Caraway 10 " 

Ethyl Acetate 1 lb. 

Corn Spirit, Proof 8 



« 



10 1b. 



5. Compound Liqueur Oil for 

Table Aquavit (Hobro Type) 

(i os. per gallon) 

Benzaldehyde 2 dr. 

Oil of Cassia Cinnamon. . . 6 " 

" "Dill \ oi. 

" " Cloves \ " 

" " Coriander 1 " 

" " Caraway 1 " 

" " Lemon 2 " 

" " Cognac 3| " 

Absolute Alcohol 7 "_ 

1 lb. 

6. Spice for Whisky 

(1 oz. per gallon Maize Brandy) 

Carob Tincture 1 lb. 

Malt Tincture (1:5) 2 " 

Wine Brandy 2 " 

Black Currant Distillate. . 2 " 

Corn Spirit, Proof 3 " 

101b. 



(6) Rum Essences 

The employment of rum essences must be declared, even if 
only traces are used to fortify genuine rum. Rum essences are 
composed of so-called rum ether, i.e., the ester formed by the 
action of diluted acetic acid on alcohol, with addition of rum 
flavor, solutions of volatile oils and various other esters and 
flavors. 

7. Simple Rum Ether 

For rum essences which require more than half an ounce to a 

gallon of artificial rum 

The raw material consists of alcohol, which is esterified by means 
of acetic acid obtained from wood vinegar, and containing about 
7% free acid. As catalyzer — which acts without entering into 
any reaction with the product itself — sulphuric acid is used, and 
the oxidation is effected by manganese peroxide. The acetic 
acid forms ethyl acetate, and, with some added starch, ethyl 
formate, and with sugar some sugar ether also. 

The still used is provided with a layer of straw as a protection 
for the metal of the still. Formerly lead was used as a lining for 
the stills, but the lead is a very poor conductor of heat. The 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 283 

copper stills are well adapted for use, but they must be quickly 
washed after the distillation is finished. 

Firstly place in the straw-lined still 1£ quarters wood vinegar 
of 7% acetic acid strength, and then introduce the following 
mixture: 

Manganese Peroxide (85%), Granulated 1} quarter 

Potato Starch 11 lb. 

Powdered Sugar 2 " 

Then add 

Alcohol 15 gal. 

Close the still and set the condenser in operation. Now slowly 
and with great caution add 1§ quarters sulphuric acid of ordinary 
strength. 

The contents of the still will be warmed rapidly by action of 
the sulphuric acid. After half an hour, heat slowly and distil 
as slowly as possible. If the still is fitted with a reflux condenser, 
the distillation should be conducted with it for half an hour. The 
distillation must not in the least be hastened, because it often 
happens that the mash boils over. Distil off about 5 quarters of 
so-called raw ether. 

The latter must be rectified, but first the still is emptied of its 
contents, and having due regard to the destructive action of the sul- 
phuric acid, the still must be cleaned thoroughly. Now place 
the raw ether in the still and distil off slowly 1 quarter of first 
distillate, then interrupt the distillation. Mix the quarter of 
distillate received with a quarter of quite cold water. After 
Borne time a thin layer of a yellowish, oily, aldehydic fluid collects 
on the surface of the mixture, and this is removed, as it renders the 
finished product prone to sour rapidly. The balance of the liquid 
is again placed in the still. Now distil off about three-quarters 
of distillate, say about 12 gallons. This distillate make up with 
distilled water to the final result of 1 cwt. 

The alcohol remaining in the still is distilled off, and this after- 
distillate is used for the next first distillation of rum ether, its 
alcoholic strength being made up by the addition of fresh alcohol. 

8. Concentrated Rum Ether 
(For highly concentrated rum essences) 
Employing the process described above, carry out 2 operations 
for raw ether, but after manufacturing the first strictly as above, 



284 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



in the second use just the same ingredients and no new alcohol, 
but instead the raw ether of the first distillation, of course without 
rectifying it, and distil off a double concentrated raw ether. The 
latter is to be rectified as above, i.e., removing the aldehydes, 
and distilling until 3 quarters are obtained, which is not to be 
diluted. Therefore the concentrated rum ether is two and a half 
times more concentrated than the simple. 



« 



u 



u 



tt 



9. Rum Flavor Essence 

Employment: 3 dr. per pound of Rum Essence. 
This flavor will not substitute the rum flavor, but it is used to 
round out and develop the taste. 

Oil of Lemon 2 os. 

" " Cognac, White 3 

Vanillin Crystals 3 

Balsam of Peru } lb. 

Ethyl Butyrate 2} 

Ethyl Acetate 2} 

Alcohol 4 " 

10 lb. 

The coloring of rum essences should be done only with catechu 
not alone because of its color, but because it contains the nece^ r 
sary tannin, which aids the essence to develop a better flavor C**^ 
storage. Furthermore, carob tincture is well suited to round tl 
taste, and as every artificial essence has originally a raw tast- 
this is covered by adding some genuine rum. The compositi 
of rum essences is based upon the price to be charged and t 
cost of the materials, and upon the latter depends the concentr^^ - 
tion of the rum ether. The formulas are limited here to 2 
pies. 



e 



10. Basis for Artificial Rum 

(Jamaica Type) 

(J oz. per gallon) 

Catechu Tincture 1 oz. 

Rum Aroma Essence 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 5 " 

Carob Tincture J lb. 

Genuine Jamaica Rum. ... 1 

Concentrated Rum Ether . 8 



n 



u 



10 lb. 



11. Basis for Artificial Rum 

(Common Type) 

(| to 1 oz. per gallon) 

Catechu Tincture 1 os- 

Rum Flavor Essence 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 5 " 

Carob Tincture J lb. 

Simple Rum Ether 9 " 

10 lb. 




TUP" -HAJSTJEACTOHE Of IJQVWt- 



Ode 
Wt*lw 



"fw Tym... 



- T«. : 

Tff imTBf t snffi 



Add i 

sVenes . anc esteem uaonrt ?> W !<■ i 
It if ne ee— q r u> found or t» xsec* n- cuov v turn- -^is: 

To age- lbt arrifiraa inn toe. u -rwr; jaTuoi -_ qc -sica::- TW 
tincture 1 : 5. 

if Arret Imoub- 

To maxmfecure shim a— ■■»■> aue n« nr nrz -r^u-- n -■»■ 
artifieui mm. fam compound 1st ukuk «m tv i'Jii-itrzc fw^aa 

13. An*c Fi^tob T~« pj 2: i«» ^ -h-«i tt-, ,_ =aMM - 

H It jirr r»*lnn rf tn»r Ti iiii "jib. 7-tj, 

CO of Sonli 3j n=. 2 f - «. ws- ry .'-T 

" " Co«n« j *■ lanv a «» " X 

Ethyl Aoetrte ]j *■ fci ^b , 

Wine DWBMC 7j - ap rrr! .„ .' J 

16 *- Snipe 2am. i-ae? ; j. 

14. Basis or Aramu Amc y~k. 

(B»UraTypr ; ; t ij-j,-^ .j^. 

(1 <w. per g*uoe, ;» imwjraf 

Arise Flavor F w row 2 <*. AioA-i , f 

EthylFormate 6 - j^i^. .' ^- 

Ethyl Nitrite g - W«e- "'"^ ;.*'- 1 

Ethyl Acetate 8 * i5*"S" 

Genuine Airac 1 lb. **^' 

Alcohol 1J " 

Rum Ether, Concentrated. 6 " 
HTib. 

(d) Cojpioc (FrencA Brandy) 
Cognac is considered as a beverage in which alcohol is d*" - ' 
from fermented wine. Wine distillate is not at all cogn 
is a beverage originally perfected by prolongod stora 



286 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

This requires several years during which the brandy is aged and 
its bouquet improved by various ethers formed. In most cases 
the cognac is aged more quickly, as by the addition to fresh wine 
brandy of tannin, which is also contained in the wood of the oak 
casks, and also some flavoring substances as plums (prunes), burnt 
almond shells, etc. The following formulas are usual in the 
Charente, this district of France being the center of the French 
cognac industry, and producing the wines best suited for cognac 
manufacture. 

17. Method op Manufacturing Cognac (Charente Type) 

This kind contains a vegetable extract, called "typage," and a 
syrup colored with caramel, any other color being prohibited. 
This is called "syrupage." A mixture of both is called Syrup 
Charentais. The latter is the basis of cognac, which contains as 
alcohol wine brandy of least 19° underproof. The quality of a cog- 
nac depends upon the quality of the wine brandy, and the wines 
of the Charente are known as the best for making cognacs. The 
added ingredients do not in any way substitute the cognac flavor, 
but rather constitute an artificial ageing and transformation into 
desired standard types of original cognac. 

(a) Cognac Typage 

Black Ceylon Tea 5 os. 

Vanilla Beans 5 " 

Stoned, Dried Plums 8 lb. 

Oak Wood 10 " 

Percolate after allowing to stand for 14 days with 8 gallons of 
proof wine distillate. 
Result 6$ gallons extract, called Typage. 

(b) Syrupage for Cognac 

16£ lb. sugar are boiled with 2\ gallons water with the addition 
of 2\ lb. caramel. 
Result 3£ gallons. 

(c) Syrup Charentais for Cognac Basis 

6? gallons Typage and 3} gallons Syrupage are mixed to the final 
result of 10 gallons, of which J gallon is sufficient for 10 gallons 
cognac. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 287 

18. Composition op Cognac Using Syrup Charentais 

In principle cognac is a mixture of \ oz. Syrup Charentais (con- 
taining the necessary typage), sugar and color, with genuine wine 
distillate in any strength. The lowest limit is about 19° under- 
proof, but while on storage some loss is unavoidable, the ordinary 
manufacturing strength is 17° underproof. The wine distillate is 
here to be understood as of proof strength, or if of higher alcohol 
strength, it must be diluted to 17° underproof. 

Pure cognac of 17° underproof consists of 

Syrup Charentais J gal. 

Pure Genuine Proof Wine Distillate 7 " 

Distilled Water 3 " 

About 10 gal. 

Of course higher degrees of alcohol are allowed, and improve 
the quality of cognac, but not more syrup should be taken, while 
it is inadvisable to alter the taste of cognac by other means or to 
substitute the taste of the wine brandy. 

19. "Cut" Cognac 

Any mixture of cognac with other kinds of alcohol must be 
declared as "cut," but at least one-tenth of the total alcohol 
content should consist of cognac or wine alcohol. In the above 
case, when the total alcohol is 17° underproof, f gallon of genuine 
wine brandy would be required for 10 gallons "cut" cognac. 
The composition of this "cut" cognac will be as follows: 

Syrup Charentais J gal. 

Genuine Proof Wine Brandy f " 

Alcohol 3J " 

Distilled Water 5} " 

10 gal. 

In this case the quantity of Syrup Charentais is the same as for 
pure cognac, because the general taste of the typage and the quan- 
tity of sugar and color would not be sufficient to be pronounced. 
A higher content of alcohol is allowed, but in every case the con- 
tent of wine alcohol must be the tenth part of the total alcohol 

present. 

20. Base for "Cut" Cognac 

The trade allows dealing with a base which contains everything 
necessary for cognac, and the distiller has nothing else to do bvil 



288 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

to mix the base with the necessary industrial alcohol and water 
as follows: 

Genuine Proof Wine Distillate } gal* 

Syrup Charentais j " 

lgal. 

Employment: 1 gallon of this base is to be mixed with 3£ gallons 
alcohol and 5$ gallons distilled water. 

21. Artificial Cognac Essence 

In most countries the imitation of cognac is prohibited in the 
interest of the industry of genuine cognac and of wine in general. 
However for many other purposes, as for instance confectionery, 
artificial cognac essence is also used, as well as for imitations of 
cognac in so far as they are not prohibited for such drinks, which are 
indeed imitations, but which are sold under fancy names giving 
no intimation of the employment of cognac. The composition 
of such an essence is as follows: 

Oil of Cognac, Rectified } o«. 

Vanilla Tincture } " 

Ethyl Nitrite 3J " 

Carob Tincture 4 " 

Ethyl Acetate 8 " 

Alcohol 2| lb. 

Distilled Water 2} " 

Genuine Wine Brandy _4 " 

10 lb. 

Employment for Artificial Cognac (under any fancy name) 

(17° alcohol underproof) 

Cognac Essence 5 o«. 

Alcohol 4J gal. 

Water 6 " 

About 10 gal. 

22. Egg-Cognac 

This specialty contains alcohol of about 37° underproof, and 
should contain genuine cognac only. The cognac should in this 
case not be diluted with water, but be employed in the original 
strength of the proof wine brandy, i gallon of Syrup Charentais 
is made up with 10 gallons wine brandy, and so used. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 289 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 4 gal. 

Egg Yolks, fresh, or preserved by any means allowed 2§ " 

Cognac, as above 3} " 

About 10 gal 

No artificial color is allowed. 

For cheaper qualities milk is allowed, but must be declared. 

Other means of thickening the liquor are prohibited. Artificial 
colors, if allowed, must be declared also. 



23. Egg-Cream Liqueur 

(About 37° alcohol) 
(Imitation Egg-Cognac) 

Instead of cognac as flavor, the strong brandy made from the 

wine dregs is used. 

■ 

Brandy from wine dregs 10 oz. 

Egg Yolks \ 2 i gal. 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 2} " 

Alcohol 2 " 

Vanillin 5 dr. 

Water (or Milk) 3} gal. 

10 gal. 

(e) Supplement: Stomachic Wines 

Aromatic or stomachic wines, if they are labelled with the name 
"wine, " must really contain wine. As bases for them sweet wines 
with a high alcohol content are used. The vegetables are ex- 
tracted with wine brandy. The quantity of sugar is mostly 15%, 
and the total content of alcohol should be about 42° underproof; 
the original alcoholic content of the wine must be brought up to 
this amount with alcohol, or better, wine distillate. Instead of 
grape wine, fruit wine also is allowed, if this is declared. The 
sugar should be dissolved in the wine, and not in water, for the 
wine itself must not be diluted. 

A great proportion of these aromatic and stomachic wines are 
used as medicaments, and for these tinctures of the ingredients 
are employed as additions. For kola, cinchona, ginger, etc., 
use the official tinctures of the drugs, say about J pint* to a gallon 
of the finished wine. The popular Wormwood Wine, " Vermouth " 
of Italian (Turin) type, is made as follows: 



290 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

24. Extract of Vermouth (Wormwood Wine, Turin type) 

Cardamom } oz. 

Cinnamon J " 

Cloves I " 

Coriander 2 " 

Fennel 2 " 

Star Anise 2} " 

Peppermint 4 " 

Centaury Herb 4 " 

Balm Leaves r . . . 8 " 

Angelica Root 8 " 

Gentian Root 1 lb. 

Alpine Wormwood (Genippe Herb) _7 " 

10 lb. 
Percolate with 

Wine Brandy 6 lb. 

Alcohol 7 " 

Sweet Wine 16 " 

After 3 days collect as final result, and without expressing, 10 lb. 
extract. 
Employment: 

Extract as above J lb. 

Sugar (according to the natural sweetness of the wine) . . . 12-15 " 

Dissolve in 

Wine 2 gal. 

Add 

Alcohol 1 " 

Wine 6} " 

VII. Alcoholic Hot Beverages (Grog and Punches) 

Under the name of Grog or Punch Extract is to be understood 
mixtures of alcohol or genuine liquors or imitation of these with 
sugar, fruit acids, or fruit juices, wines, water and aromatic, 
vegetable substances, intended to be drunk with hot water as grog 
or punch. Where genuine liquors like rum, arrac or cognac 
are imitated, or essences of their imitations are added, this must 
be declared. The quality of these extracts depends upon the cost 
of the constituent as wines or liquors. The extracts employed, 
diluted with 3 to 4 parts of hot water, have an average content of 
22° underproof. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



291 



1. Spiced Flavor for Punches 

(Aromatic addition for almost all 
kinds of hot beverages to be em- 
ployed J to 1 oz. per gallon of the 
extract.) 

Solution of Citric Acid 

(1:1) Jib. 



Tincture of Cloves 


i lb. 


" " Cinnamon . . . 


• J " 


Orange Flower Water 


. 1 " 


Lemon Peel Distillate 


. 3 " 


Orange Peel " 


• 4J " 



10 lb. 



(a) Hot Drinks with the Taste of Genuine Liquors or Imitations 



2. Grog Extract from Genuine 
Arrac, Cognac or Rum 

Spiced Punch Flavor 2 lb. 

Genuine Arrac, Cognac or 

Rum 1$ gal. 

Water 2 " 

Alcohol 21 " 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 4 " 

10 gal. 

3. Grog Extract from Arti- 
ficial Liquor Essences 

Arrac or Rum Essence. ... 1 lb. 

Spiced Punch Flavor 2 " 

Water 2Jgal. 

Alcohol 3J 

Sugar Syrup 4 



it 



it 



it 



tt 



n 



tt 



10 gal. 

4. Punch Extract from Gen- 
uine Arrac, Cognac or Rum 

Vanilla Essence 3 oz. 

Solution Citric Acid (1 : 1 ) . 3 " 

Lemon Peel Distillate 1 lb. 

Claret Wine i gal. 

Alcohol 2 

Genuine Arrac, Cognac or 

Rum 3 J 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 4 

10 



5. Punch Extract from Arti- 
ficial Liquor Essences 

Artificial Arrac or Rum Es- 
sence J lb. 

Pineapple Essence } 

Spiced Punch Flavor } 

Water 2 gal. 

Alcohol 3} 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 4\ 

10 gal. 



6. Toddy Extract from Gen- 
uine Whisky 

Spiced Punch Flavor § lb. 

Genuine Arrac 1 gal. 

Water 2 " 

Genuine Whisky 3f " 

Sugar Syrup 3J 



n 



10 gal. 



7. Warm Corn Extract 



t< 



<( 



<( 



gal. 



Spiced Punch Flavor \ lb. 

Genuine Arrac 1 gal. 

Sugar Syrup 1 

Corn Spirit 27° underproof 6 

Water 2\ " 

10 gal. 



it 



(i 



(b) Fruit Punch Extracts 



8. Punch Extract from Lemon, 
Orange and Pineapple 



Pineapple Essence, or 
Lemon or Sweet Orange 
Distillate 2 



lb. 



Pineapple, Lemon or Sweet 

Orange Juice J gal. 

Water 1 " 

Genuine Arrac 2 " 

Alcohol 3 " 

Sugar Syrup (60%) ± 



tt 



Vfc * 



292 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



(c) Fancy Punches 



9. Coffee or Tea Punch 
Extract 

Coffee or Tea Essence .... 1 lb. 

Genuine Arrac 2 gal. 

Water 2 " 

Alcohol 2J 

Sugar Syrup 3J 



u 



<( 



10 gal. 

10. Milk Punch Extract 

Sugar 40 lb. 

Fresh Milk 5 gal. 

Boil to a syrup, then add 

Vanilla Essence 1 oc. 

Tincture of Mace 2| " 

Genuine Rum \ gal. 

Alcohol 2j " 

10 gal. 

11. Royal Punch Extract 

Infusion of \ lb. Gun- 
powder Tea (Green) .... J gal. 

Genuine Cognac 1 pint 

Arrac 1J " 

Lemon Juice 1 J " 

Sweet Orange Juice i gal. 

Water 1§ " 



Alcohol 3} gal. 

Sugar Syrup 4 " 

io~ST 

12. Russian Kaskantbchi Punch 
Extract 

Tincture of Cloves 1 os. 

" Cinnamon 1 " 

Vanilla Tincture J lb. 

Lemon Distillate J " 

Black Tea Infusion 1 " 

Rum } gal. 

Alcohol 2 " 

Water 2 " 

Genuine Arrac 3 " 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 2} " 

10 gal. 

13. Swedish Punch (Swedish 
National Beverage) 

Ready to drink ice-cold, and with- 
out dilution. 

Lemon Juice J gal. 

Alcohol 1 " 

Genuine Arrac 1) " 

Sugar Syrup 3} " 

Water 4 " 



10 gal. 



(d) Wine Punches 

The quality of wine punches depends upon the quality of 
the wines and liquors used. Artificial essences and volatile oils 
should never be employed. The color should be that natural to 
the wine; some colored fruit juices are also employed, not because 
of their darker color, but because their particular taste is wanted 
to complete the flavor. 



14. Bishop Extract 

Vanilla Tincture § oz. 

Mace Tincture 1 

Cardamom Tincture 1 

Cloves Tincture 2 " 

Cinnamon Tincture 3} 



<t 



<< 



« 



Lemon Distillate 

Sweet Orange Distillate. . . 

Alcohol 

Dark Claret Wine. 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 



1 lb. 

U " 
3 gal. 

3 " 

4 " 

10 gal. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF LIQUORS, ETC. 



293 



15. Burgundy Wine Punch 
Extract 

Vanilla Essence 1 oz. 

Lemon Juice J gal. 

Rum J 

Arrac | 

Water 2\ 

Genuine Burgundy Wine. . 3 

Sugar Syrup 4 



<< 



<< 



<< 



<< 



<< 



(< 



<< 



tt 



<( 



10 gal. 

16. Cardinal Punch Extract 

Tincture of Mace 1 oz. 

Cinnamon Tincture 2 

Clove " 2 

Lemon Distillate 1 lb. 

Sweet Orange Distillate ... 1 J " 

White Wine 3 gal. 

Alcohol 3J 

Sugar Syrup 3j 

10 gal. 

17. Claret Punch Extract 

Cardamom Tincture 1 

Clove " 3 

Cinnamon " 3 

Lemon Juice " 1 lb. 

Genuine Rum } gal. 

Sugar Syrup 4 

Dark Claret Wine 4| 

10 gal. 



oz. 

<< 

<< 



tt 



tt 



18. Glowing Wine Punch 
Extract 



oz. 



tt 



it 



it 



tt 



it 



Cardamom Tincture 2 

Pineapple Essence 3 

Cinnamon Tincture 5 

Clove Tincture 5 " 

Genuine Arrac J gal. 

Alcohol.. 1J 

Cherry Fruit Syrup 4 

Claret Wine 4J 

10 gal. 



19. Imperial Punch Extract 

Mandarin Distillate i lb. 

Lemon Juice J gal. 

Genuine Arrac J 

Sugar Syrup 4 

White Wine 5} 



tt 



tt 



tt 



10 gal. 

20. White Wine Punch Ex- 
tract from Mosel, Rhine 
or Chablis Wine 

Sweet Orange Juice t . J gal. 

Genuine Arrac 1 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 3 J 

Mosel, Rhine or Chablis 
Wine 5 



n 



u 



tt 



(e) Glowing Punch Extract Without Wine. (Substitute for 

Glowing Wine Punch Extract) 

22. Glowing Punch Extract 

Cardamom Tincture 1 oz. 

Clove " 3 " 

Cinnamon " 3 " 

Glowing Punch Aroma Es- 
sence 9 " 

Genuine Rum J gal. 

Cherry Juice 2 

Alcohol 3 J 

Sugar Syrup (60%) 4J 



21. Flavor Essence for Glow- 
ing Punch 

Carob Tincture 1 lb. 

Rhatany Root Tincture. . . 3 " 
Wine Distillate 2 gal. 

Macerate for a week and press off 
8 lbs., and add 

Lemon Juice 2 lb. 

Ambergris Tincture j oz. 

10 lb. 



tt 



tt 



n 



10 lb. 



Sit 



PART VI 
CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 

A. Confectionery Essences 

L ESSENCES FOR FILLING CONFECTIONS WITH THE TASTE 

OF LIQUORS AND CORDIALS 



(a) Fortified Vegetable Essences 

1. Benedictine. 

2. Chartreuse. 

3. Mountain Herbs. 

4. Alpine Herbs. 

5. Walnut. 

(b) Solutions of Volatile Oils 

6. Anisette. 

7. Curacao. 

8. Genever. 

9. Maraschino. 

10. Pereico. 

(c) With Taste of Genuine Brandy 
and Punches 

11. Arrac. 

12. Bishop. 



13. Cardinal. 

14. Corn Whisky. 

15. Cognac. 

16. Rum, Jamaica Type. 

17. " Kingston Type. 

18. Rum Punch. 

19. Swedish Punch. 

(d) With Liqueur and Ratafia Taste 

20. Cherry Brandy. 

21. Cacao. 

22. Ginger. 

23. Pear Liqueur. 

24. Ratafia Cherry. 

25. " Raspberry. 

26. " Strawberry. 

27. Vanilla. 



IL ESSENCES FOR MEDICINAL CONFECTIONS AND COUGH 



28. Marshmallow Root. 

29. Cough Herbs. 

30. Eucalyptus. 

31. " Extract. 

32. Iceland Moss. 

33. Malt Extract. 



DROPS 

35. Pimpinella. 

36. Pine Needle. 

37. Poppy Flower. 

38. Radish. 

39. Scorzoncra. 

40. Plantain. 



34. Onion. 

DDL ORIGINAL ESSENCES FROM FRUITS, DRUGS AND VOLA- 
TILE OILS 



41. Banana. 

42. Barberry. 

43. Bilberry, Black. 

44. " Red. 

45. Blackberry. 



(a) Fresh Fruits 

46. Cherry, Black. 

47. " Red. 

48. " White. 

49. Currant, Black. 

50. " WMte. 

295 



51. Gooseberry. 

62. Melon. 

53. Mirabelles. 

54. Mulberry. 

55. Pineapple. 

56. Quince. 



57. Raspberry, Red. 

58. " Colorless. 
69. Green Gage. 

60. Strawberry, Red (Garden). 

61. " Red (Wild). 

62. " Colorless. 



(5) Fresh Peels or Volatile Oils of Citrus Fruits 

63. General Formula from Peels. 67. Orange, Bitter. 

64. " " " Oils. 68. " Sweet. 

65. Lemon. 69. Tangerine. 

66. lime. 

(c) Dried Fruits 

70. Apple. 75. Grape. 

71. Apricot. 76. Peach. 

72. Date. 77. Pear, Jargonelle, 

73. Fig. 78. Plum. 

74. Hips. 79. Prunelle. 

(d) Kernels of Nuts 



80. 


Cocoanut. 


82. 


Pistachio Nut. 


81. 


Hazel Nut. 


83. 
(e) Drugs 


Walnut Kernel. 


84. 


Cacao, Brown. 


91. 


Malt. 


85. 


" Colorless. 


92. 


Orris Root. 


86. 


Coffee, Brown. 


93. 


Tea. 


87. 


" Colorless. 


94. 


Tea, Colorless. 


88. 


Ginger. 


95. 


Vanilla Bean. 


89. 


Hop. 


96. 


Vanillin Essence. 


90. 


Kola Nut. 










(J) Volatile Oils 


97. 


Bitter Almond. 


98. 


Eucalyptus. 






99. Pine Needle. 




IV. 


"FONDANT" 


FLAVORS 


100. 


Apricot. 


114. 


Cocoanut. 


101. 


Apple. 


115. 


Currant, Black. 


102. 


Banana. 


116. 


Red. 


103. 


Barberry. 


117. 


White. 


104. 


Bergamo t. 


118. 


Date. 


105. 


Huckleberry, Black. 


119. 


English. 


106. 


Bilberry, Red. 


120. 


Fig. 


107. 


Blackberry. 


121. 


Gooseberry. 


108. 


Cherry, Red. 


122. 


Grape. 


109. 


White. 


123. 


" Muscatel. 


110. 


Cherry Brandy. 


124. 


Grenadine. 


111. 


Spiced. 


125. 


Hazel Nut. 


112. 


Chocolate, White. 


126. 


Hip. 


113. 


White. 


127. 


Honey. 



296 



128. Ice Cream. 

129. Kola Nut. 

130. Lemon. 

131. " Spiced 

132. Lime. 

133. Macaroon. 

134. Melon. 

135. Mirabelle. 

136. Morelle. 

137. Moutbpearl. 

138. Mulberry. 

139. Nectar. 

140. Nectarine. 

141. Nougat. 

142. Orange, Bitter. 

143. " Sweet. 

144. Orgeat. 

145. Orris. 

146. Peach. 

147. Pear. 

148. Pineapple. 

149. Pistachio Nut. 



150. Plum. 

151. Prunelle. 

152. Quince. 

153. Raspberry. 

154. Green Gage. 

155. Spice Fondant. 

156. Strawberry, Garden. 

157. " Wild. 

158. Tangerine. 

159. Walnut. 

160. Woodruff. 

Wine Fondants 

161. Burgundy. 

162. Claret. 

163. Madeira. 

164. Malaga. 

165. Muscatel. 

166. Port. 

167. Rhine. 

168. Sherry. 

169. Tokay. 



V. ORIGINAL FRUIT ETHERS 



170. General Formula for Artificial 


193. 


Malt. 


Fruit Ethers. 


194. 


Melon. 


171. Apricot. 


195. 


Milk Caramel. 


172. Apple. 


196. 


Mirabelle. 


173. Banana. 


197. 


Mulberry. 


174. Barberry. 


198. 


Orange, Bitter. 


175. Bilberry, Black. 


199. 


Sweet. 


176. " Red. 


200. 


Orris. 


177. Butterscotch. 


201. 


Peach. 


178. Cherry. 


202. 


Pear. 


179. Cherry Brandy. 


203. 


Pineapple. 


180. Cacao. 


204. 


Pistachio Nut. 


181. Coffee. 


205. 


Plum. 


182. Currant. 


206. 


Quince. 


183. Date. 


207. 


Raspberry. 


184. Gooseberry. 


208. 


Green Gage. 


185. Grape. 


209. 


Strawberry, Garden. 


186. Grenadine. 


210. 


Wild. 


187. Hip. 


211. 


Tangerine. 


188. Honey. 


212. 


Tea. 


189. Hop. 


213. 


Vanilla. 


190. Ginger. 


214. 


Walnut. 


191. Lemon. 


215. 


Universal Ether. 


192. lime. 







297 





Special Ethers far WqJ 


r er Flavors 


216. Arrac. 


224. 


English Wafer. 


217. Bitter Almond. 


225. 


Ice Cream. 


218. Cacao. 


226. 


Maraschino. 


219. Chocolate. 


227. 


Nectar. 


220. Coffee. 


228. 


Nougat. 


221. Cognac. 


229. 


Punch. 


222. Cream. 


230. 


Rum. 


223. Curacao. 


231. 


Woodruff. 




VL CARAMEL FLAVORS 


232. Anisette. 


271. 


Lime. 


233. Apricot. 


272. 


Malt. 


234. Apple. 


273. 


Maraschino. 


235. Arrac. 


274. 


Melon. 


236. Banana. 


275. 


Milk CarameL 


237. Benedictine. 


276. 


Mirabelle. 


238. Barberry. 


277. 


Mulberry. 


239. Huckleberry. 


278. 


Nectar. 


240. Bilberry, Red. 


279. 


Nectarine. 


241. Bitter Almonds. 


280. 


Nougat. 


242. Blackberry. 


281. 


Orange, Bitter. 


243. Butterscotch. 


282. 


" Sweet. 


244. Champagne. 


283. 


Orris. 


245. Chartreuse. 


284. 


Peach. 


246. Cherry, Red. 


285. 


Pear. 


247. " White. 


286. 


Persico. 


248. Cherry Brandy. 


287. 


Pineapple. 


249. Cherry Spice. 


288. 


Pine Needle. 


250. Chocolate. 


289. 


Pistachio Nut. 


251. Cacao. 


290. 


Plum. 


252. Cocoanut. 


291. 


Prunelle. 


253. Coffee. 


292. 


Punch. 


254. Cognac. 


293. 


Quince. 


255. Curacao. 


294. 


Quodlibet. 


256. Currant, Black. 


295. 


Raspberry. 


257. " Red. 


296. 


Ratafia. 


258. Date. 


297. 


Green Gage. 


259. Eucalyptus. 


298. 


Rock Drops. 


260. Fig. 


299. 


Rum. 


261. Gooseberry. 


300. 


Swedish Punch. 


262. Grape. 


301. 


Strawberry, Garden. 


263. " Muscatel. 


302. 


Strawberry, Wild. 


264. Grenadine. 


303. 


Tangerine. 


265. Hazelnut. 


304. 


Tea. 


266. Hips. 


305. 


Universal CarameL 


267. Honey. 


306. 


Vanilla. 


268. Hop. 


307. 


Walnut. 


269. Kola Nut. 


308. 


Woodruff. 


270. Lemon. 







298 



VH. WAFER 

0. Apricot. 
3. Arrac. 

1. Banana. 

2. Bitter Almonds. 

3. Cherry. 

4. Chocolate. 

5. Cacao. 
5. Coffee. 
7. Cognac. 
3. Cream. 
9. Curasao. 
3. Currant. 

1. English Wafers. 

2. Ice Cream. 

3. Lemon. 



FLAVORS, 

324. 
325. 
326. 
327. 
328. 
329. 
330. 
331. 
332. 
333. 
334. 
335. 
336. 
337. 
338. 



OIL-SOLUBLE 

Nectar. 

Nougat. 

Orange. 

Peach. 

Pear. 

Pineapple. 

Pistachio Nut. 

Punch. 

Raspberry. 

Rum., 

Strawberry. 

Tangerine. 

Vanilla. 

Walnut. 

Woodruff. 



Vm. FLAVORS OF FLOWERS 



9. Elder Flower Type. 

0. Violet Type. 

1. Genuine Flower Essences. 

2. " " Ether. 

3. Cassie. 

4. Heliotrope. 



345. Hyacinth. 

346. Jasmine. 

347. Lilac. 

348. Lily of the Valley. 

349. Orange Flowers. 

350. Rose. 
351. Violet. 



2. Allspice. 

3. Anise. 

4. Star Anise. 

5. Bergamot. 

6. Bitter Almond. 

7. Calamus. 

8. Cardamon. 

9. Cinnamon. 



IX. SPICE EXTRACTS FOR THE BAKERY 

(a) Simple Spice Extracts 

360. Cloves. 

361. Coriander. 

362. Fennel. 

363. Ginger. 

364. Lemon. 

365. Mace. 

366. Nutmeg. 

367. Orange Flower. 
368. Rose. 



(6) Compositions 

9. Arrac, Cognac and Rum. 371. Spice Oil for Baking. 

0. Lemon Spice Extract. 372. Tonca Bean Extract. 

373. Violet Extract. 



4. Biscuits. 

5. Butter Spice. 

6. Gingerbread. 

7. Glaze Flavor. 

8. Honeycomb. 

9. Macaroon. 



(c) Bakery Spice Extracts 

380. Melangebits. 

381. Pastry. 

382. Plum Pudding. 

383. Printen. 

384. Speculatius. 

385. Tea Biscuits. 
386. Wedding Cake. 

299 



X. CONFECTIONERY LACQUERS 

387. Benzoin Resin, Purified. 392. Glase Lacquer for Foam Cot 

388. Purified Bleached Shellac. fections. 

389. Benzoin Lacquer. 393. Lacqifer for Gingerbread. 

390. Lacquer for Chocolates. 394. Marchpane Lacquer from Sac 

391. Brilliant Lacquer for Confections. darac. 

395. Marchpane Lacquer from Shellac. 

B. Culinary Essences 

L SPICE EXTRACTS 

(a) Solutions of Volatile Oils 

396. Allspice. 405. Tarragon. 

397. Basil Herb. 406. Fennel. 

398. Bitter Almond. 407. Laurel Leaves. 

399. Caraway. 408. Marjoram. 

400. Celery. 409. Mugwort. 

401. Cinnamon, Ceylon. 410. Parsley. 

402. Cloves. 411. Savory. 

403. Coriander. 412. Sage. 

404. Dill. 413. Thyme. 

(6) Fortified Vegetable Extracts 

414. Anise. 418. Ginger. 

415. Calamus. 419. Jumper Berry. 

416. Cardamom. 420. Mace and Nutmeg. 

417. Cinnamon Flowers. 421. Pepper, Black and White. 

(c) Simple Vegetable Extracts 

422. Asparagus. 424. Saffron. 

423. Capsicum or Chillies. 425. Vanilla. 

(d) Extracts from Fresh Vegetables 

426. Capers. 427. Carrots. 

428. Chervil. 

(e) Fungi Extracts 

429. Champignons. /431. Mushrooms. 

430. Morels. 432. Truffles. 

(J) Onion Extracts 

433. Chives and Garlic. 435. Leeks. 

434. Onions. 436. Shallots. 

II. CULINARY SPICE EXTRACT COMPOUNDS 

(a) Meat-Spice Extracts 

437. For Beef, Veal and Fowl. 

438. For Mutton, Pork and Smoked Meats. 

439. For Game, and Wild Fowl. 

300 



it 

« 11 



xi and Broiled Fish. 

led Meats, Crabs, etc. 

t Fillings, Forced Meats, etc. 

shea, Ragouts, Mock Turtle, etc 

16S. 

as, etc. 

6. 

age Spice Extract for Sausage, etc. 

" " Hausmacher Sausage. 

" Smoked Sausage, Salami, MortadeDa, etc. 
i Extract for Mulled Beer, Punch, Mulled Wine, etc. 

(b) Pickled Spice Extracts 

)d Pickle Extract. 455. Mixed Pickles, 

y. 456. Mustard Pickles, 

agon. 457. Piccalilli. 

sHerbes. 458. Salt Pickles. 

m. VINEGAR ESSENCE SPICES 

Fines Herhes. 463. Malt Vinegar. 

ry Vinegar. 464. Mustard Vinegar, 

agon Vinegar. 465. Wine Vinegar. 
b Vinegar. 

IV. SPICE SALTS 

(a) Simple Spice Salts 
rySalt. 467. Pepper Salt. 

(6) Compound Spice Salts 

lion Spice Salt. 470. Game Spice Salt, 

it Spice Salt. 471. Fish Spice Salt. 

(c) Sausage Spice Salts. 

age Spice Salt. 475. For Liver Sausage. 

Country Sausage. 476. For Tongue Sausage. 

Smoked Sausage. 477. For Onion Sausage. 

(d) Pickle Spice Salts 
ed-Pickle Spice Salt. 479. Salt-Pickle Spice Salt. 



301 



• 1 



PART VI 
CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 

A. Confectionery Essences 

I. ESSENCES FOR FILLING CONFECTIONS WITH THE TASTE 

OF LIQUORS AND CORDIALS 

(a) Fortified Vegetable Essences 

General Method: 

Macerate 5 lb. of the drugs with 10 lb. proof spirit, allow to 
stand for a week, then express off 6 lb. extract. Then add the 
volatile oils to the residue, add 10 lb. water, place in the still, and 
distil off the whole alcohol content, then add water to bring the 
distillate to about 17° underproof, filter with the aid of infusorial 
earth to remove the terpenes, and rectify the filtrate to a yield of 
4 lb., which then mix with the expressed extract to the final yield 
of 10 lb. After allowing to stand a few days, filter the essence if 
it is not quite clear. 



1. Benedictine Essence 

Tonka Beans li 

Calamus Root 4 

Thyme Herb 4 

Mace 4 

Cinnamon Bark 4 

Cloves 4 

Arnica Flowers 6i 

Angelica Seed 10 

Musk Mallow Seed 10 

Angelica Root 1 

Balm Leaves 1 



oz. 

n 
t 

< 
t 
t 
( 



lb. 

«« 



5 lb. 



Addition: 

Oil of Coriander 7 

" " Cardamom 7 

" " Peppermint 1J 

a " Lemon 4 



dr. 
(< 

oz. 



2. Chartreuse Essence 

Balm Mint 2J 

Cinnamon Flowers ... 4| 

Galanga Root 5 

Ginger Root 5 

IvaHerb 10 

Calamus Root 13 

Zedoary Root 1 lb. 3 

Bitter Orange Peel ... 1 lb. 5 



oz. 
< 

t 
t 
t 

i 
t 



5 lb. 



Addition: 
Oil of Lemon 



i 

Angelica 1 J 

" Coriander 1J 

Thyme 1} 

Acetic Ether 4 



a n 



u 



U «( 



OZ. 

M 
it 
U 

u 



303 



304 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



3. Mountain Herbs Essence 
for Herb Caramel 



Balm Mint 

Cinnamon Flowers . . 

Galanga Root 

Angelica Root 

Balm Leaves 

Bitter Orange Peel . . 
Unripe Bitter Orange 
Fruit 



Addition: 

Ethyl Formate 
Ethyl Acetate. 



2Joz 
4 



<< 



4i 
7 
10 
lib. 8 



n 



12 



tt 



tt 



it 



tt 



tt 



51b. 



i 

4 

i 



lb. 



tt 



4. Swiss Alpine Herbs Essence 

Balm Mint 2| oz. 

Cinnamon Flowers 4 

Galanga Root 4} 

Angelica Root 7 

Balm Leaves 10 



n 



n 



tt 



tt 



Bitter Orange Peels 

Unripe Bitter Orange 
Fruits 



Addition: 

Ethyl Formate. 
Ethyl Acetate . 



li<* 

ill 
5 lb. 

lib. 
1" 



5. Walnut Essence from Fresh 
Walnuts 

Crush 10 lb. of fresh, quite un- 
ripe walnuts, harvested in July, 
macerate with 7} lb. strong alcohol, 
and express off after three days 
10 lb. extract. 

Addition: 

Oil of Mace J dr. 

Amyl Butyrate 2J " 

Oil of Lemon 4 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 4 " 

Benzaldehyde 4 " 



(b) Solution of Volatile Oils to 

6. Anisette Essence 

Oil of Lemon, Terpeneless J dr. 

" " Cardamom i " 

" " Cinnamon j" 

" " Cloves 1 " 

" " Coriander 1J " 

" " Calamus 1J " 

11 " Star Anise 11 " 

Wine Distillate 1J " 

Distilled Water 1J " 

Alcohol 12 " 

1 lb. 

7. Curasao Essence 

Oil of Sweet Orange 1 dr. 

" " Lemon J " 

" " Ginger J " 

" " Cinnamon ... 1 J " 

" " Bitter Orange, 

Terpeneless 2 " 

Wine Distillate 2 oz. 1 1 " 

Rose Water 2 " 

Alcohol 11 " 

1 lb. 



Imitate the Taste of Liqueurs 

8. Genever Essence (Juniper) 

Oil of Juniper, Ter- 
peneless 3 dr. 

Lemon Distillate 1 oz. 13 " 

Grain Brandy 4 " 

Alcohol 10 " 

lib. 



9. Maraschino Essence 

Oil of Cinnamon J dr. 

Ethyl Acetate 7J " 

Ethyl Nitrite 12 " 

Orange Flower Water 12 " 

Raspberry Distillate 1 J o*. 

Wine Distillate 1| " 

Rose Water 2 " 

Common Laurel Water ... 2§ " 

Alcohol 3 " 

Cherry Fruit Essence 3J " 



OONFECTIOXERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 305 



10. Pebsico Essence 

Oil of Lemon ljdr. 

" " Cinnamon 2\ " 

" " Benxaldehyde 3i " 

" " Common Laurel 3} 



Fruit Flavor Oil of Peach . 

Rose Water 

Wine Distillate 

Bitter Almond Water 

Alcohol 



a 



5idr. 
2 ox. 
2 
3 
8 " 
1 lb. 



« 



M 



(c) Taste of Genuine Brandies and Punches 

The employment of rum and arrac essence alone is not suitable, 
but the taste must be refined by adding genuine liquors. 



11. Arrac Essence 

Vanillin 2\ dr. 

Arrac Essence 13J " 

Genuine Arrac 15 ox. 

1 lb. 



12. Bishop Essence 

Vanilla Tincture 5 dr. 

Mace Tincture 11 " 

Cardamom Tincture 12 " 

Cloves Tincture 3} ox. 

Cinnamon Tincture 3 

Sweet Orange Distillate. . . 4 
Rum, Genuine 4 



It 



II 



it 



1 lb. 



13. Cardinal Essence 



Mace Tincture f ox 

Cloves Tincture 1} 

Cinnamon Tincture 1) 

Lemon Peel Essence 4 

Rum, Genuine 4 

Sweet Orange Distillate 4} 



n 



a 



« 



«< 



a 



1 lb. 

14. Corn Whisky Essence 

Vanillin 3dr. 

Caraway Essence. 6 " 

Malt Distillate 1 ox. 7 " 

Wine Distillate 4 

Alcohol 4 

Grain Whisky 6 



a 



n 



tt 



15. Cognac Essence 

Vanillin 3 dr. 

Wine Brandy 1 ox. 13 " 

Genuine Cognac 7 " 

Alcohol 7_^ 

lib. 

16. Rum Filling Essence 

(Jamaica Type) 

Vanillin 3 dr. 

Catechu Tincture 6 " 

Rum Essence 7 " 

Genuine Rum 5 os. 

Alcohol 10 " 



lib. 



17. Rum Filling Essence 

(Kingston Type) 

Vanillin 3 dr. 

Rum Essence 1 ox. 13 " 

Genuine Rum 4 " 

Alcohol 10_^ 

lib. 

18. Rum Punch Essence 

Pineapple Essence 2) ox. 

Sweet Orange Essence 3} " 

Lemon Peel Essence 4 " 

Genuine Rum 6 " 

1 lb. 

19. Swedish Punch Essence 

Genuine Rum f ox. 

ArracEssenceNo.il 1J " 

Lemon Peel Essence 4 " 

Genuine Arrac 10 



« 



1 Ih. 



306 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



(d) With Liqueur and Ratafia Taste 



n 



n 



20. Cherry-Brandy Essence 

Genuine Cherry Brandy. . . 1 § oz 

Cherry Fruit Juice 3 J 

Cherry Fruit Essence 5 

Alcohol 6 " 

1 lb. 

21. Cacao Liqueur Essence 

Genuine Arrac 1} oz. 

Alcohol 6 J 

Cacao Essence, Brown. . . . 8 



<< 



<< 



1 lb. 

22. Ginger Liqueur Essence 

Wine Distillate 1 J oz. 

Ginger Essence 6J " 

Alcohol 8 " 



1 lb. 



23. Pear Liqueur Essence 

Wine Distillate 1 J oz 

Bergamot Essence 7 

Alcohol 7 J 



(< 



<< 



1 lb. 

24. Ratafia of Cherry Essence 

Grain Whisky 1| oz. 

Genuine Cherry Brandy.. . 1| " 



<< 



<< 



Cherry Fruit Essence 6 oz. 

Alcohol 7 " 

1 lb. 

25. Ratafia of Raspberry 
Essence 

Wine Distillate 1) oz. 

Raspberry Juice 3} 

" Essence 5 

Alcohol 6 " 

1 lb. 

26. Ratafia Essence of 
Strawberry 

Wine Distillate 1 J oz. 

Strawberry Juice 3J " 

" Essence 5 " 

Alcohol 6 " 



1 lb. 



27. Vanilla Liqueur Essence 

Vanillin 5 dr. 

Wine Distillate 1 oz. 11 " 

Vanilla Essence 4 " 

Alcohol 10 " 

lib. 



n. ESSENCES FOR MEDICINAL CONFECTIONS AND COUGH 

DROPS 

These consist chiefly of a tincture of the drugs mixed with 
universal caramel ether (No. 215), or with medicinal extracts 
added. The base is a tincture of 1 lb. drug with 4 parts proof 
spirit, 3 lb. of extract being expressed off after three days standing. 

General Formula 

Malt Extract, Inspissated 1 ox. 

Boiling Water ' 3 " 

Dissolve, and after cooling, add 

Universal Caramel Ether 1 " 

Drug Tincture (as above) 12 " 

lib. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 307 



28. Marshmallow Root 
Essence 

As per general formula. 

29. Cough Herbs Essence 

For cough caramels. 

Angelica Seed } oz. 

Coriander $ 

Star Anise 1£ 

Angelica Root 1 J 

Balm Leaves 3 J 

Licorice Root 4 

Pimpinella Root 4 

Macerate with 4 lb. proof spirit 
and after three days standing ex- 
press off 3 lb., which use as per 
general formula above. 

30. Eucalyptus Essence 

Oil of Peppermint J dr. 

Alcohol 15| " 

Universal Caramel Ether . . 1 oz. 
Tincture of Eucalyptus 
Leaves 14 



n 



1 lb. 

31. Eucalyptus Extract Es- 
sence 

Inspissated Aqueous Eu- 
calyptus Extract 2 oz. 

Boiling Water 4 

After cooling, add 

Eucalyptol i 

Universal Caramel Ether. 1 
Alcohol 8J 



u 



n 



u 



tt 



1 lb. 

32. Iceland Moss Essence 
As per general formula. 

33. Malt Extract Essence 

Malt Extract, Inspissated . 2 oz. 

Boiling Water 6 

Universal Caramel Ether. . 1 

Malt Distillate 5 " 

Alcohol 2 



n 



tt 



tt 



34. Onion Extract Essence 

Macerate 2 lb. fresh peeled and 
crushed onions with 5 lb. alcohol for 
three days, and then express off 
about 4 lb. 

Composition: 

Oil of Mustard J dr. 

Alcohol f oz. 

Universal Caramel Ether. . 1 
Onion Extract (as above) . . 14 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 



35. Pimpinella Essence 
As per general formula. 

36. Pine-Needle Essence 

Oil of Pine Needles, Ter- 

peneless J dr. 

Universal Caramel Ether. . 15| " 

Alcohol 11 oz. 

Water 4 " 

1 lb. 

37. Poppy Flower Essence 

Oil of Rose 1 drop 

" " Fennel i dr. 

Alcohol 151 " 

Universal Caramel Ether. 1 oz. 
Tincture of Poppy Flowers 14 



tt 



1 lb. 



1 lb. 



38. Radish Extract Essence 

Make an essence from fresh black 
radish in the same manner as in 
making onion extract, and use also 
the same composition for the es- 
sence. 

39. SCORZONERA ESSENCE 

As per general formula. 

40. Plantain Essence 
As per general formuisk. 



308 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



m. ORIGINAL ESSENCES FROM FRUITS, DRUGS AND 
VOLATILE OILS AS FOUNDATION FOR ANT CON- 
FECTIONERY ESSENCE 

The following essences are intended to serve as bases for other 
compositions, such as caramel and "fondant" flavors and natural 
fruit ethers. To most of those essences an addition of volatile 
oils or esters as "fixage" is allowed. 

(a) Fresh Fruits 



41. Banana Essence 

10 lb. fresh but not overripe 
bananas arc peeled, and only the 
pulp is used. 

Macerate with 20 lb. proof spirit, 
and after standing three days ex- 
press off about 10 lb. extract. 

To the residue add 

Water 2 gal. 

Solution of Chamomile Oil 

(1 : 10) 2| dr. 

Amyl Butyrate 6 " 

Oil of Coriander 12 " 

Distil off 5 lb. and mix with ex- 
tract obtained as above. 

Result 15 lb. 

42. Barberry Essence 

Express 10 lb. fully ripe bar- 
berries collecting 7 lb. of juice and 
3 lb. residue. Macerate the latter 
with 3 lb. alcohol for three days and 
then express off 3 lb. extract. The 
residue is mixed with the reserved 
juice, 12 dr. ethyl butyrate are added, 
and the mixture is distilled, the dis- 
tillate being rectified to a yield of 
2 lb. which mix with the extract to 
a final yield of 5 lb. 

43. Bilberry Essence, Black 

2 quarters of black bilberries are 
crushed and after adding 2 lb. sugar, 
fermented for some days to develop 
the flavor. Express off the juice and 
collect about 20 lb. residue which 
macerate with 15 lb. alcohol for 



K 



M 



11 



three days, then express off 15 lb. 
extract, and distil the residue with 
4 gallons of water, then add 

Oil of Coriander 1 J dr. 

" " Fennel 2J 

Amyl Butyrate 4 

Ethyl Acetate 12 

and rectify the distillate to a yield 
of 5 lb., which then mix with the 
above extract to a final yield of 20 lb. 

44. Red Bilberry Essence 
(Also Cranberries) 

Make in the same manner as 
above from black bilberries, but add 
for the distillation 

Oil of Rose | dr. 

Methyl Salicylate 1J " 

Ethyl Benzoate 1 os. 

Result 20 lb. 



m 



45. Blackberry Essence 

From very ripe blackberries 
the same manner as bilberry 
sence, but with the addition before 
the distillation of 6 dr. methyl 
salicylate. Result 20 lb. 

46. Black Cherry Essence 

The black cherries are more 
aromatic than the sour cherries 
(Agriots). The cherries are crushed, 
but with only the half of the kernels. 
Then ferment 1 cwt. of the mash 
with 5 lb. sugar for a few days, ex- 
press off the juice, and collect about 
1 quarter residue, which macerate 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 309 



with 15 Ih. alcohol for three days, mul 
express off 20 lb. of extract. The 
residue distil off with the juice after 
adding 

Ethyl Benzoate :\ ■■/.. 

Amyl Formate 3 " 

Rectify the distillate to s yield of 
5 lb., which then mix with the extract 
to a final result of 25 lb. 

47. Cherry Essence, Red 
(Aoriot) 

Same formula as before, fermented 
with same additions. 

48. Cherry Essence, Colorless 
1 cwt. cherries, crushed with all 
their kernels and fermented with 5 
lb. sugar, are distilled off with the 
addition of 15 lb. alcohol and 

Genuine Cognac Oil 4 dr. 

Ethyl Benaoate 2\ oz. 

Amyl Formate 4 " 

The distillate rectify to a final 
result of 25 lb. 

P49. Currant Essence, Red or 
Black 
The black currants are best suited, 
and if red currants are used, sub- 
stitute at least 30% of them with 
black currants for the pronounced 
flavor desired. 

1 cwt. of the berries are fermented 
with 5 lb. sugar for a few days to 
develop the flavor. Add now 6 gal- 
lons alcohol, and distil off without 
expressini; f> iintl'iTi* disii]];iti\ collect - 
ing the remaining alcohol in an after- 
distillate. 

Take another hundred weight of 
fermented currants, and express 
these. Result about 1 quarter resi- 
due, which macerate for a day or two 
with the distillate of IS gallons ob- 
tained, and express off about 6 gallons 
of extract. 



The remainder distil off with the 
juice obtained after adding the after- 
distillate and 

Ethyl Pelargonate. , 6 dr. 

Anisaldehyde 6 " 

Ethyl Benzoate 12 " 

Ethyl Acetate. 12 " 

Rectify the distillate to yield 
10 lb., which mix with the extract, 
and add water to a yield of 2 quarters 



50. Currant Essence (Colorless) 
Manufacture as above with fer- 
mented black currants only, but 
distil off completely without frac- 
tionating. This distillate use as a 
medium for a second batch of fer- 
mented fruits, with the addition of 

Oil of Cognac — 4 dr. 

Ethyl Pelargonate 8 " 

Ethyl Benaoate. 12 " 

Ethyl Acetate 12 " 

Final result, 2 quarters. 

51. Gooseberry Essence 

Made from ripe red or yellow (not 

green) gooseberries in the same 

manner its bilberry essence, but add 

before distillation the following: 

Amyl Acetate 12 dr. 

Ethyl Acetate Ho*. 

Result 20 lb. 



52. Mm 



; Essence 



1 cwt. fresh sugar melons (water- 
melons are not suited) are peeled 
and crushed. Remove the seeds 
with a sieve. The pulp macerate 
with 10 lb. alcohol and after standing 
three days collect 10 lb. The rest 
distil off with 2 gallons of water 
after adding l\ oz. ethyl butyratc, 
and rectify to 5 lb., which mix with 
the extract to a final result of 15 lb. 
The juice is vrortiJisa. 



310 MANUAL FOR ' 

53. Mirabej.le EeaxHoi 
1 cwt. yellow mirabclles are freed 

from the. stones, and after crushing 
are fermented with 5 lb. sugar for a 
few days. Press off the juice and 
macerate the remainder with 15 lb. 
alcohol for three days, then express 
off 15 lb. The rest distil off with 
the obtained juiee after adding t> dr. 
amyl valerate, and rectify Ihe dis- 
tillate to yield 5 lb. which then mix 
with the extract. Result 20 lb. 

54. Mui.oEHHY Banana 
Make from black or red mul- 
berries in the same way as bilberry 
essence, but add before distillation 

Methyl Salicylate, 1J dr. 

Result 20 lb. 

55. Pineapple Essence 
Peel 10 lb. fresh pineapples. Mac- 
erate the 2 lb. or so of peels with 2 lb, 
alcohol. The pulp is then expressed, 
and macerated again in another 
vessel with 1 J lb. alcohol. Express 
this first, and obtain ahout 2 lb. 
pul]) extract. Express the peels and 
obtain 2 lb. peel extract. The ex- 
tracted peels m a cerate once more 
with the pulp extract obtained, and 
press off a day later a further 2 lb. 
extract, which mix with the. first peel 
extract. 

The remainder of the two macer- 
ates distil off with the juice of the 
pulp and G dr. amyl butyrale, and 
then rectify to 1 lb. This add to the 
mixed extract essence to obtain a 
final yield of 5 lb. 

56. CJttiNCE Essence 
Ripe quinces must lie for some 
Irwin oo straw to develop their 
flavor. 1 cwt. such quinces are 
crushed and expressed. The residue 
la oiaccrati.il with 20 lb. alcohol for 



) ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

three days and then expressed t 
yield 20 lb. extract. The remaining 
residue is distilled off with the juice 
obtained and 

Ethyl Valerate. 6dr 

Amyl Acetate 12 " 

and the distillate rectified to yidi 
5 lb., which mix with the extract to a 
final yield of 25 lb. 

57. Raspberry Essence, Red 
Made in the same way as currant 
essence. The berries are fermented 
for a few days with sugar, and t 
mash distilled with alcohol. The 
first fraction serves for macerating 
the residue of the second batch. The 
final distillation requires no aroi 
additions before distilling, but when 
distillate and extract are mixed to 
the result of 2 quarters, dr. vanillin 
are added as fixage. 

58. Raspberry Essence 

(Colorless) 

Represents the colorless essence of 



To the final result of 2 quarters add 
dr. vanillin. 

5H. Ukeen Gage Essence 
Made from small hlue green gages 
in the same way as essence of mira- 
belles with a yield of 20 lb. from 1 cwt 
fruits. The same additions are also 
to be made. 

DO. Strawberry Essence, Red 
(From garden strawberries) 

Use small, red, freshly harvested 
strawberries, iiiid express off without 
fermentation. 1 cwt. of fruit yields 
about 3 quarters juiee and 1 quarter 



residue, which latter 



macerated 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 311 

with 30 lb. alcohol for three days. Methyl Salicylate 4 dr. 

Express off 35 lb. extract, acid distil Oil of Allspice 8 " 

the remainder mixed with the juice Final result SO lb. 
obtained. Then add 

Oil of Cognac 4 dr. fi2 ' S ™ AWBERH1 ' EM.«a 

Ethyl Acetate 4 on. (Colorless) 

and rectify the distillate to 15 lb., The flavor " f "a™**"*" » very 

which mix with the extract to a final ■ K <"" : ' 11 "' «' h " : '<> f nd hel ><* essences 

yield of 50 lb. mwt ta d " ,tdled m the vacl,llm 
apparatus. 

Macerate 30 lb. of fresh straw- 

61. Strawberry Essence, Rep berries for a day with 10 lb. alcohol, 

(From Wild Strawberries) and then distil with the addition of 

Wild strawberries must not be fer- Methyl Salicylate 2J dr. 

mented (during transport or other- oiI of Cognac. 2\ " 

wise), because the flavor is impaired " Allspice 5 

by fermentation. Use the same **»# Butyrale 2j at. 

method as above, but add as flavor- and without rectification to a final 

ing addition the following: yield of 30 lb. 

>(6) Fresh Peels or Volatile Oils of CUtus Fruits 
63. General Method for Essences of the Peels from 
Citrus Fruits for Confectionery 
Macerate 10 lb. of fresh peels with 20 lb. of alcohol for three 
days and then express off 20 lb. extract. The remainder is dis- 
tilled with & gallons of water to 10 lb. distillate, from which separate 
the terpenes, and then mix the alcoholic liquid with the extract. 
Result 10 lb. This essence is not suited for liqueurs or lemonades, 
but for the finest confections, as ices, creams, etc., where strictly 
clear products are not required. 

In this manner the peels of all the citrus fruits are worked up, 
as lemons, limes, sweet and bitter oranges, and tangerines. 

k64. General Method for Confectionery Essences from 
Volatile Oils of Citrus Fruits 
The solution of volatile oils in alcohol alone will not suffice in 
every ease, because the terpenes impair the concentration and the 
flavor of the products. The terpenes are removed in the manner 
already described. 10 lb. of the volatile oil are distilled, using 
the return tube and the Florence flask, with 10 gallons of alcohol 
of 17° underproof until terpenes no longer separate in the bottle, 
then remove the separated terpenes, which will reach t\\« a.N«tajgi 



312 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



of 90% of the oil employed, and distil off the still contents to a 
final yield of 60 lb., which filter if necessary. To round out the 
flavor use, besides the volatile oil, some volatile additions as 
follows. The formulas are calculated on the employment of each 
10 lb. of oils to a yield of 60 lb. of essence: 



65. Lemon Essence 

Oil of Peppermint, Mitch- 
am 12 dr. 

Oil of Lemon 10 lb. 

66. Lime Essence 

Either 

Oil of Peppermint 

Oil of Limes 

or 

Oil of Limes 

" " Lemon 



67. Orange Essence, Bittbb 

Oil of Petitgrain J lb. 

Bitter Orange 9J " 



U M 



12 dr. 
10 1b. 

41b. 
6 " 



68. Orange Essence, Sweet 

Oil of Cinnamon, Ceylon. . 2 oz. 
Sweet Orange 10 lb. 



u << 



69. Tangerine Essence 

Oil of Thyme 1| o*. 

Tangerine 4 lb. 

Sweet Orange 6 



il M 



U M 



tl 



(c) Dried Fruits 

For the essences of the following the fresh fruits are less ad- 
vantageous, the dried fruits being best adapted because of their 
extractive content, but they must be fresh, and not more than a 
year old, and in every case from last harvest. The further ad- 
vantage of using dried fruits is the possibility of manufacturing 
preparations independently of any season. 



70. Apple Essence 

Take chopped apples, or if in good 
condition dried apple parings, and 
macerate 10 lb. with 20 lb. proof 
spirit for three days, then add 5 gal- 
lons of water, and distil off 20 lb., 
which use as a menstruum for the 
maceration with a fresh 10 lb. fruits. 

After again standing three days 
distil off, after adding 5 gallons of 
water and 2 J dr. Amyl Valerate, to a 
final yield of 20 lb. essence. 

71. Apricot Essence 

Use the same method as for apple 
essence, but as addition for the final 
distillation use 

Ethyl Valerate 2J oz. 



72. Date Essence 

73. Fig Essence 

74. Hip Essence 

These are all made in the same 
way as apple essence, but as addition 
for the last distillation use 

Ethyl Acetate 2\ oz. 

75. Grape Essences 

Several kinds of raisins serve as 
material, i.e., for muscatel grape 
essence the stalk-free Malaga grapes; 
for the champagne taste the stoned 
Sultana raisins; and for the red- 
wine taste the small blue corinths. 

The manipulation is in every case 
the following: 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 313 



10 lb. of the raisins are treated with 
10 lb. hot wine and allowed to swell 
for a day. For muscatel essence and 
for champagne essence use samoa 
wine or any sweet clear wine; for 
red-wine type, uae claret. Afterwards 
pour on 8 lb. alcohol and 2 lb. Wine 
Distillate. After standing for three 
days express off about 12 lb. extract. 
The residue distil with 

Oil of Mace 5 dr. 

" " Cognac 5 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 3j oz. 

The result of this distillation with- 
out necessary rectification is 8 lb., 
which mix wilh the extract to a final 
yield of 20 lb. 

These grape-essences arc the basis 
of the so-called wine flavors for 
"fondants." 



70. Peach Essence 
Use the same method as for apple 

essence, using dried peaches, but 

adding 

Ethyl Valerate 1) oi, 

Amyl Valerate 2 " 

77. Peak Essence (Jargonelle) 

Use the same method as for apple 
essence, but with the addition to the 
last distillation of 

Oil of Bergamot 2} dr. 

" " Coriander 2J " 

Amyl Acetate 12 " 

78. Plum Essence 

79. Prunelle Essence 

Same method as for apple essence. 

Di.-!il with the addition of 

Amyl Valerate 2J oz. 



{d) Nul Kernels 
The kernels must be as fresh as possible, and must not have the 
slightest rancid taste. The nut kernels are known to be very 
rich in fatty oils, which are insoluble in alcohol, and render the 
essences turbid. This must be avoided. If any fatty oil is taken 
up by the essence, it must bo removed by freezing out. The 
method is a general one for all kinds of nuts. 
80. Cocoanot Essence 82. Pistachio Not Essence 



81. Hakel Nut Essence 



Walnut Kernel Essence 



am 

on 



10 lb. of the rasped nuts are macerated with 30 lb. proof spirit 

id stirred often during 10 days. Collect, without any pressure, 

20 lb. of extract, and distil the residue with 5 gallons of water and 

Ethyl (Enanthate 12 dr. 

Amyl Formate lioz. 

to obtain 10 lb., and mix the distillate with the extract to a final 
yield of 30 lb. 

(e) Drugs 
The general method is to macerate or percolate the drugs with 
alcohol of various suitable strengths, and to distil ' 



314 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



If colorless qualities are wanted, distil off the complete essence in 
one operation, but in most cases the colorless essences have less 
flavor and are not so fine as the others. 



84. Cacao Essence, Brown 

To give the essence an increased 
utiliiability a tincture of ground 
cacao shells is employed as a basis. 
10 lb. ground cacao shells are macer- 
ated with 30 lb. proof spirit. After 
three lux's collect 20 lb. extract and 
distil the residue with 5 gallons of 
water to yield 10 lb., which mix 
with the extract. This serves as a 
menstruum for the following ex- 
traction of freshly roasted, ground 
cacao bean*. 10 lb. of these cacao 
beans v°°coa» as deoleated powder is 
not suitable^ macerate for ten days 
with the above extract of cacao shells, 
then collect '20 lb, extract, and distil 
the residue with 5 gallons of water 
to a viold of 10 lb., which mix with 
the extract, and add 6 dr. vanillin. 
Final \ lekl 30 lb. 

vV V\e.\o Kssknce, Colorless 

Macerate 10 lb. roasted cacao 
boa ii» with 'JO lb. proof spirit for a 
week, and then after adding 3 gallons 
waiei. distil olT very slowly essence 
JO lb , to which add vanillin 10 dr. 

Sii. iVt-fr-KK F.ssknce, Brown 

bu^hU Koa>ted Coffee. . . 5 lb. 

Vicnumc Virac 3 " 

Waiei 9" 

M.iveiaie tor one day only, per- 
>.'Uu\ i Ken iK»ur on I gallon of 
iU.«fi,«i i. imdcioroof, and jiercolatc 
i « i \ u M x»i l lib. I'se this jHTColate 
i i hi. n > i uuui tor a further 5 lb. of 
. >'\y w !i.t h uuweiate lor a day and 
\' i .... ii..»iij; ihe atter-|»ercolate 
>-i . v u. i bau-h, to viekl 15 lb. of 

Um. It, d e«fcj\'lUV« 



87. Coffee Essence, Colorless 

Macerate 10 lb. of freshly roasted 
coffee for one day with 4 lb. alcohol 
and 10 lb. water, "and then distil off 
very slowly 10 lb. essence, to which 
add 6 dr. vanillin. 

88. Ginger Essence 

Grains of Paradise 12 dr. 

Galanga Root 1 J o». 

Jamaica Ginger 1 lb. 

Macerate for three dayB with 4 lb. 
proof spirit and express off 3 lb. 
extract. The residue distil with 
sufficient water to a yield of 1 lb., 
which mix with the extract to a final 
yield of 4 lb. 



89. Hop Essence 

Macerate 1 lb. freshly dried hop 
flowers with 10 lb. proof spirit, and 
after a week press off 9 lb. extract. 

90. Cola Nut Essence 

Macerate 1 lb. roasted cola nuts 
with 4 lb. proof spirit. After a week 
express off 3 lb. extract. 



91. Malt Essence 

Light Dried Malt, Crushed 

Cardamom 

Water 



10 lb. 
10 oz. 
6 gal. 

Heat to about 140° F. and allow 
to stand at this temperature for 
two hours. Then add alcohol 10 lb., 
and distil off slowly 23 lb., wherein 
dissolve 2 lb. inspissated malt extract 
and lastly i dr. genuine honey flavor 
oil. Rear* 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 315 



92 Orris Root Essence 



10 1b. 



• 

Florentine Orris Root. 

Alcohol 10 " 

Allow to stand one day. Then 
macerate the root further with 40 lb. 
proof spirit ami sifter a week express 
off 40 lb. extract. Distil the residue 
with 5 gallons of water after adding 

Amyl Acetate . 12 dr. 

Ethyl (Enanthate 2$ ob. 

Ethyl Acetate 4 " 

to a yield of 10 lb., which mix with 
the extract to a final yield of 50 lb. 

93. Tea Essence 

Finest Ceylon Tea 2 lb. 

Rose Flower Leaves ...... 6 ok. 

Genuine Arrac. . . 2 pints 

Allow lo stand for one day, then 
add 2 gallons boiling water. After 
standing one hour express off 8 lb. ex- 
tract. Add further 

Lemon Peel Essence 12 dr. 

Pineapple Esaencc 1 lb. 

Orange Flower Water 4 dr. 

Result 10 lb. 

94. Tea Essence, Colorless 

Rose Flower Leaves 10 ot. 

Ceylon Tea 3 lb. 



Genuine Arrac 2 pints 

Alcohol 5 " 

Allow to macerate for one day, 

then after adding 4 gallons of water 

distil off very slowly 9 lb. distillate, 

to which add 

Lemon Peel Essence } lb. 

Orange Flower Water } " 

Vanillin 6 dr. 

Result 10 lb. 

95. Vanilla Bean Essence 
Macerate 1 part vanilla lioans with 
4 parla proof spirit for 10 days. 

For cheaper qualities some genu- 
ine vanilla beans are replaced by 
Tahiti Vanilla (Vanillons). Other- 
wise, vanilla is partly replaced by 
vanillin. 



)6. Vanil 

(Colorless) 
Hcliotropin 1 J dr. 



Vanillin Crystals. 

Glycerin 

Distilled Water. . . 
Alcohol , . . 



(/) Volatile Oils 



97. Bitter Almond Essence 



Benxaldehyde — 

Alcohol 

Distilled Water. 



. Ho 
. 12} ■ 



99. Pine Needle Essence 
Oil of Pine Needles, Ter- 



98. Eucalyptus Essence 

.... 2J dr. 






Euealyptol . . 



6} ' 



lb. 



IV. "FOMDANT FLAVORS" 
These are employed for preparations in the making of which 
little heat is employed, as also for ices, creams, jellies, marmalades, 
fruit pastes, etc., which can only be prepared in the col' 1 «■■ lastly 



316 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



where a fine fruity flavor is desired. Even for puddings, biscuits, 
icings for cakes, and bakery products, these fruit essences, or the 
compounded essences, are popularly employed. In making them 
the basic fruit essences or other basic essences described in Part III 
are used, and usually with the addition of a suitable fixing agent 
or taste corrective. 



100. Apricot Fondant 

Vanillin 2) dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 5J " 

Cherry Laurel Water 7} oz. 

Basic Apricot Essence .... 9j lb. 

10 lb. 

101. Apple Fondant 

Clove Tincture 3 oz. 

Orange Essence 5 " 

Basic Apple Essence 9j lb. 

10 lb. 

102. Banana Fondant 

Orange Essence 4 oz. 

Orange Flower Water 6 " 

Lemon Essence 6 " 

Basic Banana Essence .... 9 lb. 



10 1b. 



u 



it 



<< 



103. Barberry Fondant 

Raspberry Essence § lb. 

Black Currant Essence J 

Lemon Essence 1} 

Barberry Essence 7j 

10 lb. 

104. Beroamot Fondant 

Oil of Bergamot 1 dr. 

Vanillin 7 " 

Lemon Essence 7} oz. 

Basic Pear Essence 9j lb. 

10 lb. 

105. Black Huckleberry Fon- 
dant 

Heliotropin 3 J dr. 

Cumarin 4J " 

Alcohol 7| oz. 

Black Currant Essence 1 lb. 

Basic Huckleberry Essence Sj " 

10 lb. 



u 



44 



106. Red Bilberry Fondant 

Vanillin 3J dr. 

Cumarin 4J " 

Alcohol 7| oz. 

Basic Red Bilberry Es- 
sence 9j lb. 

10 lb. 

107. Blackberry Fondant 

Birch Tar Oil \ dr. 

Solution Orris Oil (10%) . . 2} 

Heliotropin 5J 

Lemon Essence 7} oz. 

Black Currant Essence 1} lb. 

Basic Blackberry Essence . J* ^_ 

10 lb. 

108. Red Cherry Fondant 

Benzaldehyde 2} dr. 

Vanillin 6 " 

Basic Red Cherry Essence 10 lb. 

10 lb. 

109. White Cherry Fondant 
Lemon Oil, Terpene- 

less li dr. 

Cognac Oil 2\ " 

Vanillin 12 " 

Benzaldehyde 2 oz. 

Colorless Basic 

Cherry Essence . . . 9 lb. 13 dr. 

10 lb. 

110. Cherry Brandy Fondant 

NeroliOil J dr. 

Clove Oil 3J 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 6 

Benzaldehyde 14 

Cherry Laurel Water 14 J oz. 

Genuine Cherry Water 4 lb. 

Basic Cherry Essence _5 ^_ 

10 lb. 



<< 



u 



M 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 317 



(i 



u 



u 



11 



It 



M 



111. Spiced Cherry Fondant 

Peppermint Oil A dr. 

Calamus Oil 2| 

Peach Flavor Oil 4} 

Benzaldehyde 12 

Vanillin 5 " 

Orange Essence 4) oz. 

Lemon Essence 10 " 

Basic Red Cherry Essence 9 lb. 

10 lb. 

112. Brown Chocolate Fondant 

Cardamom Tincture 1 J oz. 

Vanilla Tincture 4 

Clove Tincture 6J 

Ceylon Cinnamon Tinc- 
ture 12 

Brown Basic Cacao Es- 
sence 8} lb. 

10 lb. 

113. White Chocolate Fondant 

1 Cardamom Oil 4 dr. 

Clove Oil 5 " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 7 " 

Vanillin 5 oz. 

White Cacao Essence 9 lb. 10 oz. 

10 1b. 

114. Cocoanut Fondant 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 5 dr. 

Clove Oil 5 " 

Mace Oil 14 " 

Sweet Orange Oil 3 oz. 

Butyric Acid (100%) 3J " 

Cocoanut Essence 9j lb. 

10 lb. 

115. Black Currant Fondant 

Nerolin 2 J dr. 

Vanillin 5 " 

Basic Black Currant Es- 
sence 10 lb. 

10 lb. 

116. Red Currant Fondant 

Peppermint Oil i dr. 

Vanillin 5J " 

Red Currant Essence 10 lb. 

10 lb. 



117. White Currant Fondant 

Cognac Oil 2 J dr. 

Vanillin 6 " 

White Currant Essence. . . 10 lb. 

10 lb. 

118. Date Fondant 

Calamus Oil, Terpeneless. . 1 dr. 

Peppermint Oil 1 J " 

Cherry Laurel Water J lb. 

Pineapple Essence J " 

Date Essence 9j " 

10 lb. 

119. English Fondant 

Heliotropin 7 dr. 

Benzyl Acetate 1 oz. 

Vanilla Essence 7 " 

Raspberry Essence 1 lb. 

Gooseberry Essence 1J " 

Apricot Essence 2 " 

Pineapple Essence 6 " 

lTTE 

120. Fig Fondant 

Peppermint Oil A dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 5 " 

Raspberry Essence | lb. 

Basic Fig Essence 9} " 



10 lb. 



tt 



u 



121. Gooseberry Fondant 

Rose Oil A dr. 

Safrol 1J 

Solution Orris Oil (10%) . . 4i 

Cumarin 6 " 

Acetic Acid (80%) 12 " 

Raspberry Essence 4} oz. 

Black Currant Essence 10 " 

Basic Gooseberry Essence. 9 lb . 

10 lb. 

122. Grape Fondant 

Black Currant Essence. ... 1 lb. 

Pineapple Essence 1 J " 

Basic Grape Essence 8 " 



318 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



123. Muscatbi, Graph Fondant 

Honey Flavor Oil 1 dr. 

Carob Tincture 1 lb. 

Black Currant Essence IJ " 

Basic Grape Essence _8 ^_ 

10 lb. 
124. Grenadine Fondant 

Vanillin 1 dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 4 " 

Alcohol loi. 11 " 

Strawberry Essence . . 2 " 
Raspberry Essence. . . 5 " 

Pomegranate Juice .. . 7J] 

lib. 
125. Hazelnut Fondant 

Rose Oil I dr. 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2| " 

Mace (Ml 51 " 

Vanillin 6 " 

Pimento Oil 10 " 

Butyric Acid 1| os. 

Peach Flavor Oil I " 

Basic Hazelnut Essence. . . 9} lb. 

10 lb. 
126. Hip Fondant 

Vanillin 2\ dr. 

Hose Water Jib. 

Basic Hip Essence 9) " 

10 lb. 
127. Honbt Fondant 

Ethyl Acetate 6 dr. 

Honey Flavor Oil 6 " 

Glycerin 12 " 

Rose Water 11 oz. 

Malt Essence 2 " 

Alcohol 11 ^_ 

1 lb. 
128. Ice Cream Fondant 

Peach Essence 12 dr. 

Lemon Essence 1} os. 

S t r aw berr y Essence 2 " 

lluiTi Essence 2 " 

IhiAilniil Essence 4 " 

Walnut Essence _6 ^_ 

1 lb. 



120. Cola Nut Fondant 

Cumarin 1} dr. 

Heliotropin 3J " 

Alcohol 11 " 

Rum, Genuine 15 o*. 

Brown Cacao Essence 2 lb. 

Cola Nut Essence 3 " 

Orange Essence 4 " 



130. Lemon Fondant 
Lemon Extract Essence. . . 2 lb. 

Lemon Distillate 3 " 

Proof Spirit : 5 " 

ioTB7 

131. Lemon Spick Fondant 

Spice Fondant 4 lb. 

Lemon Fondant Essence . . 6 " 



132. Lime Fondant 

Orange Essence 1 lb. 

Lemon Essence } " 

Limetta Essence 4 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

lOlbT 

133. Macaroon Fondant 

Rose Oil ^ dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 6 " 

Mace Tincture 10 

Alcohol 2 oz. 

Brown Coffee Essence. . . .13 " 

Peach Essence 1 lb. 

Brown Cacao Essence. ... 11 " 

Orange Essence. 1} " 

Cherry Brandy Essence. . . 2 " 

Hazelnut Basic Essence. . . 3 " 

10 lb. 

134. Melon Fondant 

Vanillin 6 dr 

Lemon Essence \ lb. 

Orange Flower Water 1 " 

Orange Essence 1 " 

Melon Basic Essence 8 " 

io~K 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 319 



a 



n 



135. MlRABELLE FONDANT 

Peppermint Oil A<lr. 

Benzaldehyde 5 

Vanillin 7 

Peach Flavor Oil li oz. 

Pineapple Essence. . . 1 lb. 14 oz. 
Mirabelle Basic Es- 
8 



sence 



<< 



10 lb. 



136. Morelle Fondant 

Benzaldehyde 4 dr. 

Cumarin 4 " 

Vanillin 8 " 

Cherry Basic Essence 9 lb. 15 oz. 



10 lb. 

137. MOUTHPEARL FONDANT 

Peppermint Oil 5 dr. 

Thymol 5 " 

Eucalyptol 6 " 

Musk Tincture (1 : 50) . 2 oz. 

Lemon Essence 1 lb. 4 oz. 

Orange Essence 2 " 

Strawberry Essence ... 2 " 

Peach Essence 4 " 9 " 

lolbl 

138. Mulberry Fondant 

Orris Oil Solution (1 : 100) . 2 J dr. 

Heliotropin 2 oz. 

Lemon Essence 14 " 

Black Currant Essence ... 1J lb. 

Mulberry Essence 7j " 

ioTTb. 



139. Nectar Fondant 

Peach Flavor Oil J dr. 

Vanillin. } " 

Honey Flavor Oil 3 

Rum, Genuine 12 

Malt Essence 3 oz. 

Alcohol 6 " 

Grape Essence 6 



n 



<< 



n 



140. Nectarine Fondant 

Vanillin ljdr. 

Peach Flavor Oil. . . . 3} " 

Apricot Essence 6 oz. 11 dr. 

Wild Strawberry Es- 



sence 



9 



n 



tt 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 

141. Nougat Fondant 

Vanillin ljdr. 

Benzaldehyde 2J 

Butyric Acid (100%) 6 

Rum, Genuine 6 

Hazelnut Essence 3 oz. 

Brown Coffee Essence .... 3 " 

Brown Cacao Essence .... 9 ^ 

1 lb. 

142. Bitter Orange Fondant 
Bitter Orange Fruit Tinc- 
ture 1 lb. 

Bitter Orange Extract Es- 
sence 2 " 

Bitter Orange Distillate. . . 3 " 

Proof Spirit 4 " 

101b. 

143. Sweet Orange Fondant 
Sweet Orange Extract Es- 
sence 2 lb. 

Sweet Orange Distillate. . . 3 " 
Proof Spirit 5 " 



101b. 



1 lb. 



144. Orgeat Fondant 
(Filler for fine fondants and pra- 
lines, to protect them from drying 
out; also known as Bitter Almond 
Milk Extract — used in proportion of 
5:100) 

Vanillin J oz. 

Benzaldehyde J " 

Alcohol 2 " 

Rose Water 5 " 

Cherry Laurel Water J lb. 

Condensed Milk 9 " 

The taste may be varied by means 
of fruit essences, of which 1 lb. of 
the desired essence may be added tc 
10 lb. of the above m v 



^ 



318 



MANUAL FOR THE 



123. Muscatel Grape Fondant 

Honey Flavor Oil 1 dr. 

Carob Tincture J lb. 

Black Currant Essence.. . . 1) " 
Basic Grape Essence 8 " 

fins: 

124. Grenadine Fondant 

Vanillin 1 dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 4 " 

Alcohol ;... 1m. 11 " 

StrawberTy Eaaence . . 2 " 
Raspberry Essence. . . 5 " 
Pomegranate Juice . . . 7_^ 

lib. 

125. Hazelnut Fondant 

RoseOil Idr. 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2| " 

Mace Oil 51 " 

Vanillin 6 " 

Pimento Oil 10 " 

Butyric Add 1 j oz. 

Peach Flavor Oil I " 

Basic Hazelnut Essence. . . 9] lb. 

10 lb. 
126. Hip Fondant 

Vanillin 21 dr, 

Rose Water jib. 

Basic Hip Esaence 9J " 

i<r~ib~ 

127. Honet Fondant 

Ethyl Acetate 6 dr. 

Honey Flavor Oil C " 

Glycerin 12 " 

Rose Water lloi. 

Malt Essence 2 " 

Alcohol 11 " 

1 lb. 
128. Ice Cream Fondant 

Piwli ESnonfla 12 dr. 

Lemon Essence Ho*. 

Strawberry Essence 2 " 

Rum Essence 2 " 

Hazelnut Essence 4 " 

Walnut Essence 6 " 

1 lb. 



ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

129. Cola Not Fondant 

Cumarin ]J <fr. 

Heliotropin 3} " 

Alcohol ii « 

Rum, Genuine IS <& 

Brown Cacao Essence 2 L 

Cola \ut Essence 3 " 

Orange Eaeence 4 " 

10 lb. 

130. Lemon Fondant 
Lemon Extract Essence . . 2 lb. 

Lemon Distillate 3 " 

Proof Spirit : 5 " 

lOlbT 

131. Lemon Spice Fondant 

Spice Fondant 4 lb. 

Lemon Fondant Essence . . 6 " 

10 lb- 

132. Lime Fondant 

Orange Essence 1 lb. 

Lemon Essence ) » 

Limetta Essence 4 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

ioTbT 

133. Macaroon Fondant 

Rose Oil ^ dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 6 

Mace Tincture 10 

Alcohol 2 oz. 

Brown Coffee Essence.... 13 " 

Peach Essence 1 lb. 

Brown Cacao Essence. ... 11 " 

Orange Essence 1 j " 

Cherry Brandy Essence. . . 2 *' 

Hazelnut Basic Essence... 3 " 

10 lb. 

134. Melon Fondant 

Vanillin 6 dr. 

Lemon Essence J lb. 

Orange Flower Water ) " 

Orange Essence l " 

Melon Basic Essence 8 " 

lTTbT 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY FASKNOKS 319 

135. MlRABELLE FONDAXT 140. NfXTAKINK FONDANT 

Peppermint Oil ftdr. Vanillin Urir. 

Benialdehyde 5 " Peach Flavor Oil. . . . M " 

Vanillin 7 «« Apricot Emwrici* t> ox. 1 1 dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 1 J oa. Wild ritrawtarry K*- 

Pineapple Essence. . . 1 lb. 14 ai. attww. .J) " 

Mirabelle Basic Ea- I ••» 

861106 8 * Ml. Nor;oAT Funuant 

10 *■ VmIUia U«lr. 

R4nzald*hydft 21 

136. MoHELLE FOXDAXT frit ync Arid MfJTl%) A M 

Benialdehyde 4 dr. fejim » r '" w " r »'" J 1 

Cumarin 4 •- HAJfrirmi Yw.uw «'J ox. 

Vanillin !!!!"" 8 ■• ftfw:» Orffw K^wium .'J " 

Cherry BaaicEaBence 9 lb 15 <a fcr ' wa '"*" ***™<» ° " 

STE ' Mli 

:i> lurrKH Ohaw*k Vnuuhin 

t«7 » € _ fc-r^r <rtKW Fruit, 'hue 

lo/. MOUTHFEAHZ. FOXDA-V? . j it 

P^permint Oil 5 dr. fcf .^' ^.^ |, ,,,,„.,. j^ 

Thymol .5 - ^ rp ^ m 

Ricalyptol ^ - ^ '^ ^ tr #// . ,„< h ||; t „. :> » 

Musk Tincture (I : 50 2 -*. ^ v/ ,,,,,.. I 

kroon Essence I J; * -.* . ^ ^ ^ 

Orange Eaaence. 2 * 

Strawberry Eaaence.. 2* : ,/: * ' "- '"* "•* *'- -■■"" - 

Peach Eaaence * • > '"'•^ '*•*'■/■'■ /^' , ^*' , *'-•■ 

138. Mcxanzr F"-tj *.rr 

Orris OflSohxtwa 'X : IflT, :. :r 

Heliotropin . ^ r. '"* -'■"• »"• ■- 

Lemon Essence ;^ .' - ■•■* ' ■" ■■' '■.'.!:«•.:■ i--. ..--> 

Black rnr rMit T"«» IK I r. "^ '• »* •*" i ' '•' '" --Z 

Mulberry Eaaeuat *" * / '•'"■» 

f 

139. XzcEajfc F«o%j- v .- u . . - a 

Peach Flwor OA. 

Rtzm, Genuine- - - .*..• 

Matt Essence *- **■ _•- - 

Alcohol ...... . 



320 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



145. Orris Fondant 

Lemon Oil, Terpeneless ... Jo*. 
Orris Oil Solution (1 : 100) . 3} " 

Orris Basic Essence 9f lb. 

10 lb. 

146. Peach Fondant 

Vanillin 2| dr. 

Orris Oil Solution (1 %) . . . . 2| " 

Peach Flavor Oil 11 " 

Cherry Laurel Water 7 oi. 

Peach Basic Essence 9} lb. 

10 lb. 

147. Pear Fondant 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2} dr. 

Cumarin 3J " 

Vanillin 6 " 

Lemon Essence 7J oz. 

Black Currant Essence J lb. 

Pear Basic Essence _9 " 

10~ib. 

148. Pineapple Fondant 

Butyric Acid 2 J dr. 

Vanillin 13$ " 

Alcohol 3 oz. 

Lemon Essence J lb. 

Pineapple Basic Essence . . 9J " 

10 - lb. 

149. Pistachio Nut Fondant 

Cognac Oil 1 dr. 

Benzaldehyde 6 " 

Vanillin 9 " 

Peach Flavor Oil 3 oz. 

Butyric Acid (100%) 4 " 

Pistachio Basic Essence. . . 9j lb. 

lTTbT 

150. Plum Fondant 

Clove Oil J oz. 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 1 J " 

Coriander Oil 1J " 

Rum Essence 1 J " 

Benzaldehyde 3 " 

Plum Basic Essence 9j lb. 

10 lb. 



151. Prunelle Fondant 

Orris Oil Solution (1 : 100) 4 dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 4 " 

Rum Essence 6 " 

Cherry Laurel Water 7 oz. 

Brown Cacao Essence 8 " 

Prunelle Basic Essence 9 lb. 

101b. 

152. Quince Fondant 

Benzaldehyde 2} dr. 

Cumarin 3} " 

Pineapple Essence 2 lb. 

Quince Basic Essence _8 ^_ 

10 lb. 

153. Raspberry Fondant 

Rose Oil i% dr. 

Jasmine Oil Solution 

(10%) i " 

Orris Oil Solution (10%)... J oz. 

Vanillin J " 

Currant Essence 7 " 

Raspberry Essence 9j lb. 

10 lb. 

Note: If a colorless essence is de- 
sired, the colorless distillates are used 
instead of the respective fruit es- 
sences. 

154. Green Gage Fondant 

Clove Oil 21 dr. 

Cumarin 5$ " 

Rum, Genuine } lb. 

Black Currant Essence 1 J " 

Green Gage Basic Essence . j8 ^_ 

10 lb. 

155. Spice Fondant 

Vanillin 1 dr. 

Benzaldehyde 2 " 

Lemon Essence 5 " 

Cardamom Tincture 1| oz. 

Clove Tincture 4 " 

Cherry Brandy Tincture . . 4 " 

Cinnamon Tincture 6 ^_ 

1 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 321 



156. Strawberry Fondant 
(From Cultivated Berries) 

Cumarin 2 J dr. 

Nerolin 3 J 

Benzyl Acetate 10 

Alcohol 3 oz. 

Pineapple Essence 12 " 

Strawberry Essence 9 lb. 

10 lb. 



a 



it 



158. Tangerine Fondant 

Mandarin Essence 2 lb. 

Orange Essence 3 

Proof Spirit 5 



u 



n 



101b. 



if 



<< 



157. Strawberry Fondant 
(From Wild Berries) 



Nerolin 

Cumarin 

Benzoyl Benzoate 

Benzyl Acetate 

Alcohol 

Wild Strawberry Essence. . 



3Jdr 

31 
9 
2 
5 

9jlb. 
10 lb. 



n 



it 



oz. 



<< 



159. Walnut Fondant 

Benzaldehyde 4 J dr. 

Mace Oil H " 

Vanillin 6 " 

Lemon Essence 1 oz. 

Butyric Acid (100%) 1 

Peach Flavor Oil 1 

Walnut Basic Essence .... 9f lb. 

10 lb. 

160. Woodruff Fondant 

Clove Oil 2 dr. 

Cumarin 6 " 

Rose Water 1 J oz. 

Tonka Tincture 5 " 

Vanilla Essence 3 " 

Proof Spirit 6 



<< 



1 lb. 



Wine Fondant Flavors 



n 



ti 



<< 



161. Burgundy Fondant 

Ambergris Tincture J oz. 

Rhatany Tincture 3 J 

Cherry Juice 4 

Raspberry Essence 8 

Black Currant Essence 1 lb. 

Grape Essence _8 ^_ 

10 lb. 

162. Claret Fondant 

Civet Tincture 1 oz. 

Ambergris Tincture J 

Rhatany Tincture 7 

Black Currant Essence 1 

Cherry Juice 2 

Grape Essence (from red 

raisins) 6J 



Elder Flower Tincture 

Black Currant Essence 

Grape Essence 



8 oz. 
12 " 

81b. 
101b. 



<< 



<< 



lb. 



<( 



<< 



164. Malaga Fondant 

Civet Tincture 5 

Ambergris Tincture 5 

Vanillin 5 

Cherry Water, Genuine. . . 9 

Rhatany Tincture 6 J 

Black Currant Essence 1 

Carob Tincture 1 

Grape Essence 7j 



dr. 

n 

<< 

<< 

oz. 

lb. 

<< 



10 lb. 



10 lb. 

163. Madeira Fondant 
Pineapple Essence 4 oz. 



Brown Cacao Essence. 



8 



<( 



165. Muscatel Essence 

Cumarin J oz. 

Mace Tincture 1} 

Elder Flower Essence 6 

Apple Essence 1 J lb. 

Grape Essence 8 " 



it 



it 



322 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



166. Port Fondant 

Vanillin 1 o«. 

Ambergris Tincture J " 

Brown Cacao Essence. ... 7j " 

Rhatany Tincture 8 " 

Grape Essence 9 lb. 

10 lb. 

167. Rhine Wine Fondant 

White Cognac Oil. . . 2J oz. 

Heliotropin 3 J " 

Ethyl Acetate 10 dr. 

Apple Essence 1 lb. 7 oz. 

Grape Essence 8j " 

10 lb. 



168. Sherry Fondant 

Civet Tincture. J cm. 

Elder Flower Tincture 2} " 

Black Currant Essence 13 " 

Pineapple Essence 1 lb. 

Grape Essence _8 ^_ 

10 lb. 

169. Tokay Fondant 

Civet Tincture 2J dr. 

Pineapple Essence J lb. 

Raspberry Essence ) " 

Carob Tincture 1 " 

Grape Essence 8 " 

10 lb. 



V. ORIGINAL FRUIT ETHERS 

(Foundations for Caramel Flavors [Fruit Spirits], Commercial 

Fruit Ethers and Wafer Flavors) 

The following formulas only serve the purpose as intermediate 
products. They are composed chiefly of ethers which are flavored 
with volatile oils or odorous substances, and they are used for 
making artificial fruit ethers; and in conjunction with the natural 
basic essences described in Part III, also for making the so-called 
natural fruit ethers. But they are chiefly used for caramel es- 
sences, also known as fruit or bonbon spirits, for making which 
the methods are given in Part VI. 

It is a basic requirement that the ethers serving as ingredients 
be absolutely pure and not diluted with alcohol; as these basic 
compounds are also used for making fat-soluble flavors for wafers, 
it is also very important that these compounds contain no water, 
otherwise turbidities will be caused. 

The total weights afforded by the formulas here given vary 
Ixjtwcen 6 and 10 lb., and the quantities are those calculated to 
afford 100 lb. of the subsequently made compound, be it fruit 
ether, caramel essence or wafer flavor. 

170. Method of Making Artificial Fruit Ethers 

Mix 70 parts by weight of strong alcohol, 5 parts by weight of 
glycerin, the final weight of basic ether obtained by the follow- 
ing formulas, and sufficient distilled water to make 100 parts by 
weight of total product. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 323 



171. Apricot Basic Ether 

Jasmine Oil, True 1 dr. 

Anethol 4 - 

Eugenol 6 ** 

Petitgrain Oil 14 " 

Amyl Alcohol 1} ox. 

Vanillin 3 " 

Peach Flavor Oil 10 " 

Ethyl Valerate 1 lb. 

Ethyl Acetate 1J 

Amyl Acetate 1} 

Ethyl Butyrate 1} 

Butyl Butyrate If 

8 lb. 



172. Apple Basic Ether 

Cognac Oil, White } 

Benzaldehyde 1 

Clove Oil 3 

Ethyl (Enanthate 11} 

Ethyl Butyrate 1 

Amyl Acetate 1 J 

Amyl Valerate 11 

Ethyl Valerate 2 

Ethyl Acetate 3 



t* 



a 



« 



« 



ot. 

«« 

«< 
<< 

lb. 

« 

<« 
a 
a 



10 lb. 



173. Banana Basic Ether 

Chamomile Oil 2} 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 51 

Eugenol 8 

Petitgrain Oil 1J 

Mandarin Oil 2 

Vanillin 3 

Benzyl Benzoate 4 

Sweet Orange Oil 4 J 

Lemon Oil 1 

Ethyl Sebacate 1 

Amyl Acetate 1 J 

Ethyl Butyrate 2\ 

Amyl Butyrate 4 



dr. 

n 

n 

oz. 

a 

a 
n 
n 

lb. 

n 

n 
a 
a 



10 lb. 



174. Barberry Basic Ether 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 4 dr. 

Petitgrain Oil 4 

Heliotropin 6 



<< 



tt 



10 dr. 

Benzyl Acetate 61 oz. 

Sweet Orange Oil lib. 

Isobotyl Acetate 11 

Ethyl Acetate 11 

Amyl Valerate 2\ 



a 



tt 



tt 



6 lb. 



175. Black Bilberry Basic 



Ofl 6 dr. 

Fennel Oil 18 " 

Amyl Butyrate 141 °*« 

Amyl Acetate 1} lb. 

Ethyl Benzoate 2 

Ethyl Acetate 21 



a 



*t 



7 lb. 



176. Red Bilberry Basic Ether 



Methyl Salicylate 6 

Coriander Oil 6 

Petitgrain Oil 12 

Vanillin 3 

Benzyl Acetate 31 

Ethyl Benzoate 8} 

Amyl Acetate 1 

Amyl Butyrate 1 } 

Ethyl Valerate 1} 

Ethyl Acetate 21 



dr. 

n 

tt 

oz. 

n 

lb. 

«i 

n 
a 



7 lb. 



177. Butterscotch Basic 
Ether 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1 lb. 

Ethyl Pelargonate 1 

Butyl Butyrate 1} 

Amyl Acetate 11 

Ethyl Butyrate 11 

Butyric Acid (100%) 2} 

he; 

Addition: 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 1 J dr. 

Honey Flavor Oil 



«4 



H 



fl 



II 



II 



324 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



(« 



li 



178. Cherry Basic Ether 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil j oz. 

Cognac Oil 1J " 

Clove Oil 2 " 

Benzyl Benzoate 2\ " 

Vanillin 2£ " 

Benzaldehyde 7 " 

Amyl Alcohol 8 

Ethyl (Enanthate 12 

Amyl Formate 2J lb. 

Ethyl Acetate Sj " 

8 lb. 

179. Cherry Brandt Basic 
Ether 

Neroli Oil i dr. 

Vanillin 12 " 

Clove Oil 12 " 

Cinnamon Oil 1 oz. 

Cognac Oil 1J " 

Amyl Alcohol 1§ " 

Benzaldehyde 4} " 

Ethyl Pelargonate 6 " 

Benzyl Benzoate J lb. 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1 J " 

Ethyl Acetate 4 " 

7 lb. 

180. Cacao Basic Ether 

Clove Oil 3 oz. 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 3 " 

Vanillin 6 

Benzyl Alcohol 8 

Ethyl (Enanthate 12 

Amyl Butyrate 1 J lb. 

Amyl Acetate 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 2\ " 

8 lb. 

181. Coffee Basic Ether 

Neroli Oil 1} dr. 

Cognac Oil 6J " 

Vanillin 2\ oz. 

Lemon Oil 4 " 

Benzyl Benzoate 7 " 

Ethyl Pelargonate 10 " 



<< 



t< 



<< 



Ethyl Formate 1J lb. 

Amyl Acetate 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 2\ " 

7 lb. 



182. Currant Basic Ether 



Rose Oil 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 

Petitgrain Oil 

Vanillin 

Benzyl Acetate 

Orris Oil Solution (1 : 100) . 

Sweet Orange Oil 

Ethyl Acetate 

Lemon Oil 

Isobutyl Acetate 

Amyl Acetate 

Amyl Butyrate 



idr. 
6 " 
6 " 

li" 

4 " 

6 " 
1 lb. 

1 " 

H" 
H" 

i" 

2 " 

9 lb. 



« 



<( 



183. Date Basic Ether 

Honey Flavor Oil 6 dr 

Eugenol 6 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 12 

Peach Flavor Oil 2 ox. 

Nerolin 2J " 

Amyl Butyrate 10 4I 

Ethyl Benzoate 1J lb. 

Amyl Valerate 1} " 

Amyl Acetate 2} " 

Ethyl Acetate 3j " 

10 lb. 



184. Gooseberry Basic Ether 

Rose Oil J dr. 

Safrol 12 " 

Fennel Oil 1} oz. 

Cumarin 4 " 

Ethyl Benzoate 6 " 

Amyl Acetate 2} lb. 

Ethyl Butyrate 2} " 

Ethyl Acetate 2} " 

8 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 325 



<t 



it 



n 



185. Grape Basic Ether 

Methyl Salicylate 1} dr 

Cognac Oil 4| 

Cardamom Oil 6 

Mace Oil 12 

Ethyl Pelargonate 3J oz. 

Amyl Butyrate 11 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 2 J lb. 

Ethyl Acetate 4J " 

8TbT 

186. Grenadine Basic Ether 

Clove Oil 6 dr. 

Honey Flavor Oil 12 " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 14 " 

Nerolin ljoz. 

Petitgrain Oil 2| " 

Benzoyl Benzoate 10 " 

Peach Flavor Oil f lb. 

Amyl Valerate 1} " 

Amyl Acetate l \ " 

Ethyl Acetate 3J " 

8~Tb. 

187. Hip Basic Ether 

Rose Oil J dr. 

Clove Oil l}oz. 

Anisaldehyde 1 } 

Heliotropin 1| 

Butyric Acid (100%) 3| 

Amyl Butyrate 1} lb. 

Ethyl Valerate 1J 

Amyl Acetate 2 

Ethyl Acetate 3 " 

8~~Ib; 

188. Honey Basic Ether 

Pelargonic Ether J lb. 

Honey Flavor Oil J 

Amyl Acetate 1 J 

Amyl Valerate 2 

Acetate Ethyl 4 



n 



u 



It 



It 



11 



It 



tt 



tt 



8 lb. 

189. Hop Basic Ether 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 10 dr. 

Hop Oil, Terpeneless (10% 
solution) 14 " 



n 



n 



tt 



Clove Oil 2Joz 

Petitgrain Oil 3 

Sweet Orange Oil 3 

Ethyl Pelargonate 6 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1} lb. 

Amyl Butyrate 1} " 

Amyl Acetate l \ " 

Ethyl Acetate 5 " 

iFTdT 



190. Ginger Basic Ether 

Galanga Oil j 

Clove 3j 

Cardamom Oil 4 

Petitgrain Oil 4 

Ginger Oil l 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1J 

Amyl Butyrate " 2 

Ethyl Acetate 3 



oz. 

tt 

tt 
tt 

lb. 

n 

n 
tt 



8 lb. 



tt 



it 



tt 



191. Lemon Basic Ether 

Sweet Orange Oil 1 lb 

Amyl Acetate 1 

Ethyl Acetate 2 

Amyl Butyrate 2 J 

Lemon Oil 3 J " 

192. Lime Basic Ether 

Peppermint Oil 6 dr. 

Amyl Butyrate 1 J lb. 

Amyl Acetate 2 

Lemon Oil 2 

Lime Oil 2 

Ethyl Acetate 2} " 

lTTb. 



193. Malt Basic Ether 

Honey Flavor Oil J 

Ginger Oil 1} 

Amyl Alcohol 1 } 

Sweet Orange Oil 3 

Petitgrain Oil 6} 

Ethyl (Enanthate 11 

Ethyl Formate 1 J 

Ethyl Acetate 3} 



a 



tt 



a 



oz. 

n 

tt 

tt 

n 

lb. 



326 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



194. Melon Basic Ether 

Vanillin 1J 

Butyric Acid (100%) li 

Lemon Oil 4 

Ethyl Pelargonatc 4 

Amyl Acetate 13 

Ethyl Acetate 1 

Ethyl Valerate li 

Amyl Butyrate 1 J 

Amyl Valerate 2_ 

7 



oz. 

i< 

n 
<( 

lb. 

<< 

<< 



lb. 



195. Milk Caramel Basic 
Ether 

Honey Flavor Oil 1 J dr. 

Rose Geranium Oil 5| " 

Cardamom Oil 12 " 

Thymol 13 " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2 oz. 

Coriander Oil 2 " 

Benzaldehyde 3 " 

Amyl Butyrate 7 " 

Butyric Acid (100%) 8 " 

Ethyl Butyrate 2 lb. 

Ethyl Acetate 2\ " 

6 lb. 

196. Mirabelle Basic Ether 

Geranium Oil | oz. 

Amyl Alcohol 1J "• 

Lemon Oil If " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 1J " 

Vanillin 2J " 

Clove Oil 3} " 

Benzaldehyde 8 " 

Ethyl Formate 1} lb. 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1J " 

Ethyl But>Tate 1 J " 

Ethyl Acetate 2j " 

8 lb. 

197. Mulberry Basic Ether 

Orris Oil Solution (1 : 100) . 2 J dr. 

Benzaldehyde 5J " 

Ethyl Pelargonate 1 J oz. 

Ethyl (Enanthate 6 " 

Benzyl Acetate 8 " 



Ethyl Acetate 1J lb. 

Ethyl Formate 1| " 

Amyl Acetate 3j " 

7 lb. 

198. Bitter Oranob Basic 

Ether 

Pimenta Oil 1 J oz. 

Petitgrain Oil 14) " 

Amyl Acetate 1 lb. 

Ethyl Acetate 1J " 

Bitter Orange Oil 3 " 

Amyl Butyrate 3) " 

10 lb. 

199. Sweet Orange Basic 

Ether 

Lemon Oil 1 lb. 

Amyl Acetate 1 " 

Ethyl Acetate 1} " 

Sweet Orange Oil 3 " 

Amyl Butyrate 3j " 

10 lb. 

• 

200. Orris Basic Ether 

Ionone (20%) 5 dr. 

Coriander Oil 7 " 

Cardamom Oil 12 " 

Benzyl Alcohol 6J oz. 

Ethyl Pelargonate 8 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1 J lb. 

Amyl Butyrate 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 3j " 

8 lb. 

201. Peach Basic Ether 

Petitgrain Oil 5 dr. 

Pimenta Oil 6 " 

Cardamom Oil 13 " 

Sweet Orange Oil 2 oz. 

Vanillin 2 " 

Benzaldehyde 2} " 

Lemon Oil 4 " 

Amyl Butyrate 4 " 

Peach Flavor Oil 1 lb. 

Ethyl Butyrate 1 " 

Amyl Acetate 2 J " 

Ethyl Acetate 2j " 

8 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 327 



202. Pear Basic Ether 

Eugenol f 

Petitgrain Oil 2* 

Vanillin 4 

Bergamot Oil 9 

Sweet Orange Oil 1 

Ethyl Acetate 1} 

Amyl Acetate 4f 



oz. 

n 

a 
n 

lb. 

<< 

tt 



8 lb. 



203. Pineapple Basic Ether 

Vanillin 1J oz. 

Lemon Oil 1 J 

Butyric Acid (100%) 1 J 

Ethyl Sebacate If 

Ethyl Pelargonate 4 

Amyl Acetate 6 

Ethyl Acetate 11 lb. 

Ethyl Butyrate 3 

Amyl Butyrate 4} 



i< 



a 



it 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



10 lb. 



204. Pistachio Basic Ether 

Mandarin Oil 1J 

Benzyl Benzoate 1J 

Butyric Acid 1 J 

Heliotropin 2J 

Pimento Oil 4 

Benzaldehyde 5 

Peach Flavor Oil J 

Mace Oil J 

Sweet Orange Oil J 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1 

Amyl Acetate 1 

Ethyl Butyrate li 

Ethyl Acetate 2 



oz. 

n 

<< 

tt 
tt 

lb. 

<< 

n 

tt 
a 
n 



8 lb. 



oz. 

tt 



205. Plum Basic Ether 

Lemon Oil 2 

Mandarin Oil 2 

Clove Oil 3 

Coriander Oil 3 

Amyl Alcohol 6 

Benzaldehyde J lb. 

Ethyl Acetate 1 

Ethyl Formate 1 J 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Amyl Formate If lb. 

Amyl Butyrate 2\ " 

8 lb. 

206. . Quince Basic Ether 

Bergamot Oil 2} dr. 

Cognac Oil 7J 

Benzaldehyde 14 

Clove Oil 1 J oz. 

Sweet Orange Oil 5 

Ethyl Butyrate 8 

Amyl Valerate 1 J lb. 

Ethyl Valerate 2J 

Amyl Acetate 3 



a 



tt 



tt 



a 



tt 



a 



8 lb. 



207. Raspberry Basic Ether 



Rose Oil J 

Jasmin Oil (10%) li 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 6} 

Clove Oil 12 

Pettitgrain 12 

Vanillin 3 

Orris Oil Solution (10%). . . 5 

Benzyl Benzoate 6 

Ethyl Formate i 

Ethyl Acetate 1 J 

Amyl Acetate 2 

Isobutyl Acetate 3 



dr. 

n 

n 
tt 
tt 

oz. 

n 

tt 

lb. 

tt 

tt 
n 



8 lb. 



208. Green Gage Basic Ether 



Rose Oil J 

Geranium Oil 6 

Clove Oil 6 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 10 

Amyl Alcohol 12 

Cognac Oil 12 

Vanillin 14 

Sweet Orange Oil 2\ 

Ethyl Pelargonate 3 

Benzaldehyde 5 

Benzyl Acetate 7 

Ethyl (Enanthate 11 

Ethyl Butyrate 1J 

Amyl Butyrate 1 j 

Ethyl Acetate 2 



dr. 

tt 

n 
tt 
n 
n 
a 

oz. 

tt 
u 
tt 

lb. 
fi 



7 lb. 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



209. Strawberry Basic Ether 
(From Cultivated Berries) 

Cumarin 12 dr. 

Ceylon CbuwnuB Oil 12 " 

Amyl Formate 4 oz. 

Nerolin 41 " 

Ethyl Benzoate 8 " 

Amyl Butyrate J lb. 

Methyl Salicylate J " 

Ethy! Butyrate 1 " 

Ethyl Acetate 1 " 

Benzyl Acetate 1 ) " 

Amyl Butyrate 1 J " 



210. Strawberry Basic Etuer 
(From Wild Bcrrica) 

Wintergrcen Oil 6 dr. 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 6 ' 

Vanillin 12 ' 

Cumarin 3 j o 

Nerolin 5 ' 

Ethyl Benzoate. • • 8 ' 

Methy Salicylate 1 lb. 

Ethyl Butyrate J ' 

Ethy) Acetate 1} ' 

Benzyl Acetate ] | ' 

Amyl Acetate 3 ' 



211. Tance 



Basic Ether 
I lb. 



Lemon Oil 

Bitter Orange Oil. 

Amyl Acetate 1 

Ethyl Acetate I 

Mandarin Oil 2 

Amyl Butyrate. . . 



3! - 



212. Tea Basic Ether 

Roar- Oil J d 

NeroliOil 11 *' 

Cognac Oil. 6J " 

Lemon Oil 1J o: 



Vanillin 3 01. 

Benzyl Acetate 5 " 

Ethyl Pelargonate 6 " 

Ethyl Formate 1 lb. 

Amyl Butyrate 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 3 " 

rib. 

213. Vanilla Basic Ether 

Cardamom Oil Ilea. 

Cinnamon Oil 2) " 

CloveOil 4 " 

Ethyl <Enanthate 8 " 

Vanillin 8 " 

Amyl Acetate 1} lb. 

Ethyl Acetate 3 " 

6 lb. 

214. Walnut Basic Ether ' 



loi. 



Cardamom Oil 

Lemon Oil 

Anisaldohyde 1J " 

Butyric Acid 1 j " 

Clove Oil 2 " 

Sweet Orange Oil 3J " 

Bnnzaldehydc 4 " 

Vanillin 4 " 

Lemon Oil 7 " 

Mace Oil 7 " 

Ethyl Olnanthate 11 lb. 

Amyl Valerate 11" 

Ethyl Acetate 3 " 

8 lb. 



215. Universal Basic Ether 
This nerves as a neutral ether base 
for flavoring compositions not par- 
ticularly mentioned, or as a supple- 
mentary basic ether. 

• Amyl Butyrate 1 lb. 

Ethyl Formate 11 " 

Amyl Acetate 1} " 

Ethyl Acetate 2J " 

6 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 329 

Special Formulas for Wafer-flavor Basic Ethers 

The ethers employed in making these must be perfectly pure 
and anhydrous. They should be clearly miscible with paraffin 
oil, and when used with the fatty substances as detailed later 
they should afford perfect solutions. 



216. Arrac Wafer 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 6 

NeroliOil 6 

Cumarin 12 

Vanillin 1J 

Cognac 2 

Ethyl Butyrate 11 

Ethyl Acetate.' 2 

Ethyl Formate 3J 

Sugar Ether 3J 



dr. 

IC 

ii 

oz. 

<( 
(( 

lb. 

<( 

<< 



10 lb. 



\/ 217. Bitter Almond Wafer 

Ethyl Benzoate 1 

Benzaldehyde 1 

Amyl Acetate 1 \ 

Ethyl Formate 2£ 

Ethyl Acetate 4| 



lb. 

a 
it 
it 
a 



10 lb. 



218. Cacao Wafer 

Brown Cacao Essence .... 20 lb. 
Amyl Acetate 2 " 

Shake thoroughly, and until the 
flavoring has passed over into the 
amyl acetate; allow to stand for 
some time, then draw off the aro- 
matized, supernatant amyl acetate 
layer, and filter it with the aid of 
infusorial earth. The residual de- 
aromatized cacao essence may be 
distilled in order to recover the 
alcohol still present in it. To the 
amyl acetate filtered as described 
now add: 

Cardamom Oil 8 dr. 

Clove Oil 12 " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2} oz. 

Vanillin 4* " 

Benzyl Alcohol 8 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1 lb. 



Amyl Butyrate 1J lb. 

Ethyl Acetate 2} " 

8 lb. 

219. Chocolate Wafer 
This is made in the same way as 
No. 218, by shaking out cacao 
essence with amyl acetate, but with 
the addition to 2 lb. of the amyl 
acetate extract of the following: 

Cardamom Oil 8 dr. 

Clove Oil 12 " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 1} oz. 

Vanillin 5 " 

Ethyl Butyrate 8 " 

Ethyl Acetate 3 lb. 

6 lb. 

220. Coffee Wafer 

10 lb. of brown coffee essence are 
shaken out with 2 lb. amyl acetate, 
and to the latter, after its separation, 
the following are added: 

Clove OU 12 dr. 

Vanillin 11 oz. 

Lemon Oil 4 " 

Benzyl Alcohol 6 " 

Ethyl Pelargonate f lb. 

Ethyl Formate Ii " 

Ethyl Acetate 2\ " 

7 liT. 

221. Cognac Wafer 

Neroli Oil J dr. 

Vanillin 6 

Benzaldehyde 6 

Cognac Oil 2 J oz. 

Pettitgrain Oil 5 

Ethyl Pelargonate 8 

Amyl Butyrate 8 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1 lb. 

Amyl Acetate 3J " 

Ethyl Acetate 4 " 



<< 



(< 



<< 



«« 



it 



330 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



222. Cream Wafer 

Honey Flavor Oil J dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 41 " 

Rose Geranium Oil 7 " 

Cardamom Oil 8 " 

Cinnamon Oil 12 " 

Coriander Oil 1 oz. 

Benzaldehyde 1 1 " 

Vanillin ■ H " 

Ethyl Pelargonate 4 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 6 " 

Butyric Acid 1 lb 

Amyi Acetate 1J " 

Ethyl Acetate 11 " 

5 lb. 

223. Curasao Wafer 

RoseOU 21 dr. 

Coriander Oil 2 oz. 

Ginger Oil 2J " 

Benzaldehyde 31 " 

Cinnamon Oil 4 " 

Clove Oil 4 " 

Pettitgrain OU 8 " 

Bitter Orange Oil 1 lb. 

Amyl Valerate 1 " 

AmylButyrate 1J " 

Ethyl Acetate 3 " 

8 lb. 

224. English Wafer 

Clove Oil 6 dr. 

Heliotropin 6 " 

Nerolin 12 

Peach Flavor Oil 2 oz. 

Vanillin 2§ 

Benzyl Acetate 10 " 

Raspberry Flavor Oil 1 lb. 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1J lb. 

Amyi Acetate 1 J " 

Ethyl Butyrate 2* " 

7" lb. 

225. Ice Cream Wafer 

Vanillin 1 oz. 

Peach Basic Ether 1 lb. 

Lemon Basic r . . 21 " 



Strawberry Basic Ether. . . 2 J lb. 

Nut Basic Ether 91 " 

1 lb. 

226. Maraschino Wafer 

Rose Oil 21 dr. 

Clove Oil 41 " 

NeroliOil 5 " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil. ,. . . 3J " 

Benzaldehyde 4 " 

Lemon OU 4 " 

Raspberry Flavor Oil 1 lb. 

Bitter Orange Oil | " 

Ethyl Sebacate 1 " 

Amyl Formate 11 " 

AmylButyrate 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 31 " 

10 lb. 

227. Nectar Wafer 

Methyl Salicylate 1J dr. 

Cognac Oil 4f " 

Cardamom Oil 6 " 

MaceOU 12 " 

Honey Flavor Oil 4 j oz. 

Ethyl Pelargonate 6 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1J lb. 

Ethyl Valerate 2 " 

Ethyl Acetate 2 " 

6 lb. 

228. Nougat Wafer 

Exhaust 10 kilos brown cacao 
essence by shaking with 2 lb. amyl 
acetate as already described, and to 
the amyl acetate then add: 

Clove OU 2} oz. 

Cinnamon OU 2} " 

Benzaldehyde 4 " 

Butyric Acid 4 " 

Vanillin 9 " 

Benzyl Benzoate 12 " 

Ethyl (Enanthate 14 " 

Ethyl Butyrate 1 lb. 

Amyl Butyrate 1J " 

Ethyl Acetate 21 " 

8 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 331 



229. Punch Wafer 

Vanillin 

Peru Balsam 

Clove Oil 

Ethyl Pelargonate 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 

Sweet Orange Oil 

Lemon Oil 

Ethyl Acetate 

Ethyl Formate 

Ethyl Butyrate 



230. Rum Wafer 

Birch Tar Oil 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 

Cognac Oil 

Clove Oil 



2Jdr. 
1} oz. 

2 " 
2\ " 
4 
6 

1 lb. 
1J « 

a " 

3 " 
8 lb. 



<( 



<< 



Lemon Oil 1J oz. 

Benzaldehyde 2} 

Peru Balsam 4 

Ethyl (Enanthate 7 

Ethyl Pelargonate 1 

Ethyl Butyrate 1| 

Ethyl Acetate 2J 

Ethyl Formate 4 



ii 



ii 



ii 



lb. 



ii 



k 



i< 



10 lb. 



lidr. 
2f " 
4 " 

8 " 



231. Woodruff Wafer 

Vanillin 1 

Cumarin 10 

Benzyl Benzoate 10 

Ethyl Pelargonate 11 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1J lb. 

Amyl Butyrate 1} 

Ethyl Acetate 2 



oz. 

ii 



i< 



ii 



ii 



ii 



7 lb. 



VL CARAMEL FLAVORS 

232. Anisette 

Universal Basic Ether 14 

Anisette Essence 4 lb. 2 

Proof Spirit 5 " 



(FRUIT OR BONBON SPIRITS) 



oz. 

<< 



Arrac, Genuine 4 

Ethyl Formate 6| 



dr. 
ii 



1 lb. 



101b. 

233. Apricot 

Apricot Basic Ether. 13} 

Apricot Essence 4 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 2\ 



oz. 



<< 



10 lb. 



236. Banana 

Orange Essence 2 

Orange Flower Water 2 

Lemon Essence 4 

Banana Basic Ether 1 

Banana Essence 3 

Proof Spirit 5} 



oz. 
ii 

ii 

lb. 

ii 

ii 



10 lb. 



234. Apple 

Apple Basic Ether. . . 

Orange Essence 

Apple Essence 4 

Proof Spirit 4 



13* 
13} 

lb. 

" 5 



oz. 

(i 



n 



237. Benedictine 
Neutral Basic Ether. 10 

Benedictine Essence. 4 lb. 6 
Proof Spirit 5 " 



oz. 

II 



10 lb. 

235. Arrac 

Cinnamon Oil tV 

Cumarin ^ 

Cognac Oil } 

Heliotropin i 

Orange Flower Water } 

Ethyl Formate 2} 

Ethyl Nitrite 2J 



dr. 



<< 
II 
<< 
II 
II 



10 1b. 

238. Barberry 

Heliotropin 1 

Cumarin 4 

Raspberry Essence . . \ 

Currant Essence .... 3 

Lemon Essence 10 

Barberry Basic Ether 10 

Barberry Essence ... 3} lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 14 



dr. 
ii 

oz. 
ii 

ii 

ii 

ii 



\^ Ya. 



332 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



239. Huckleberry 

Heliotropin 2J dr. 

Cumarin 5J " 

Currant Essence 15} oz. 

Huckleberry Basic Ether. . 12 " 

Huckleberry Essence 3 J lb. 

Proof Spirit 4f " 

10 lb. 

240. Red Bilberry 

Heliotropin 2} dr. 

Cumarin 5J " 

Strawberry Essence 7} oz. 

Red Bilberry Basic Ether. . 12 " 

Red Bilberry Essence 3f lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

241. Bitter Almond 
Bitter Almond Basic Ether. 1 lb. 

Cherry Laurel Water 2 

Proof Spirit 7 



n 



tt 



10 1b. 



4oz. 

4 " 
12 " 
12 " 

3 1b. 

5 " 
10 1b. 



243. Butterscotch 

Butterscotch Basic 

Ether 13J oz. 

Glycerin 1 lb. 2J 

Proof Spirit 8 



242. Blackberry 

Raspberry Essence 

Currant Essence 

Lemon Essence 

Blackberry Basic Ether. . 

Blackberry Essence 

Proof Spirit 



a 



<< 



10 lb. 



244. Champagne 

Benzaldehyde 

Heliotropin 

Currant Essence 

Apple Essence 

Grape Basic Ether 

Grape Essence 

Proof Spirit 



dr. 



6 

6 

4J oz. 
11 
12 

3} lb. 

5 " 
10 lb. 



<< 



n 



tt 



245. Chartreuse 

Neutral Basic Ether . 10 oz. 

Chartreuse Essence. . 4 lb. 6 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

101b. 

246. Red Cherry 

Cherry Basic Ether. . 13} oz. 

Cherry Essence 4 lb. 2\ " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

247. White Cherry 

Benzaldehyde 

Cumarin 

Cherry Basic Ether. . 
White Cherry Es- 
sence 4 

Proof Spirit 5 



31 
13* 

lb. 2 

tt 



dr. 
oz. 



10 lb. 

248. Cherry Brandy 

Clove Oil 3 

Cinnamon Oil 5 

Benzaldehyde 8 

Cherry Brandy Basic 

Ether 12 

Proof Spirit 21b. 3 

Cherry Essence 3 " 

Cherry Water, Genu- 
ine 4 " 



dr. 
ii 



ii 



oz. 

<i 



101b. 

249. Cherry Spice 

Lemon Oil, Terpeneless ... 1 J 

Cognac Oil 2f 

Vanillin 12 

Benzaldehyde 1 J 

Cherry Basic Ether 13J 

Cherry Essence 4 

Proof Spirit 5 



dr. 

<i 

ii 

oz. 

ii 

lb. 



10 lb. 



250. Chocolate 

Cacao Basic Ether.. . 13| 

Proof Spirit 3 lb. 2J 

Chocolate Fondant 
Essence 6 



oz. 

it 



ii 



10 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 333 



251. Cacao 

Cacao Basic Ether.. . 13} oz. 

Cacao Essence 4 lb. 2} " 

Proof Spirit 5 



<< 



10 lb. 

252. Cocoanut 

Benzaldehyde 5 dr. 

Mace Oil 7 " 

Clove OU 12 " 

Sweet Orange Oil 2 J oz. 

Butyric Acid 41 " 

Walnut Basic Ether. 13} " 

Cocoanut Essence. . . 4 lb. 10} " 

Proof Spirit 4 



it 



tt 



10 lb. 

253. Coffee 

Coffee Basic Ether . . 13} oz. 

Coffee Essence 4 lb. 2} 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

254. Cognac 

Vanillin 1 

Cognac Oil 3J 

Ethyl Nitrite 8 

Rose Water 12 

Ethyl Acetate 1} 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1 } 

Proof Spirit 5 

Wine Distillate 6} 



dr. 

tt 

<< 

oz. 

<< 

<< 
<< 



1 lb. 



255. Curacao 

Universal Basic Ether 10 oz. 

Curacao Essence .... 4 lb. 6 " 
Proof Spirit 5 " 



10 1b. 

256. Black Currant 

Nerolin 2} dr 

Vanillin 5$ " 

Currant Basic Ether 15} oz 

Black Currant Essence 4 lb 

Proof Spirit J5 " 

10 lb 



257. Red Currant 

Vanillin 8 dr. 

Currant Basic Ether 15} oz. 

Black Currant Essence. ... 4 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



258. Date 

Peprjermint Oil } dr. 

Calamus Oil 1 " 

Benzaldehyde 2J " 

Vanillin 12 " 

Pineapple Essence 3 oz. 

Date Basic Ether 1 lb. 

Date Essence 3| " 

Proof Spirit 5 



(< 



10 lb. 



259. Eucalyptus 

Neutral Basic Ether. 10 oz. 

Eucalyptus Essence.. 4 1b. 6" 

Proof Spirit _5_^ 

101b. 



260. Fig 

Peppermint Oil J dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 4f " 

Vanillin 7 " 

Raspberry Essence 3} oz. 

Date Basic Ether 1 lb. 

Fig Essence 3f " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



261. Gooseberry 

Orris Oil Solution 
(1 : 100) 2} dr. 

Raspberry Essence . . 1 } " 

Currant Essence. ... 6} " 

Gooseberry Basic 
Ether 13} " 

Gooseberry Essence . 3 lb. 10} oz. 

Proof Spirit 5 



it 



10 lb. 



334 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



262. Grape 

Currant Essence 8 oz. 

Apple Essence 10J " 

Grape Basic Ether 13 \ " 

Grape Essence 3 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

263. Grape 

(Muscatel) 

Currant Essence 8 oz. 

Pineapple Essence 10 J " 

Grape Basic Ether 13$ " 

Grape Essence 3 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

264. Grenadine 

Vanillin 8 dr. 

Strawberry Essence 9 J oz. 

Grenadine Basic Ether 10 " 

Raspberry Essence 1J lb. 

Peach Essence 1J " 

Proof Spirit 6 " 

10 lb. 

265. Hazelnut 

Rose Oil J dr. 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2 J " 

Mace Oil 5J " 

Vanillin 6 " 

Benzaldehyde 10 " 

Butyric Acid 1 J oz. 

Peach Flavor Oil 3J " 

Nut Basic Ether 13J " 

Hazelnut Essence 3 J lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

266. Hips 

Vanillin 8 dr. 

Apricot Essence 4 oz. 

Apple Essence 10 " 

Hips Basic Ether 13§ " 

Hips Essence 3J " 

Proof Spirit 5 lb. 

10 lb. 



267. Honey 

Honey Flavor Oil 4 dr. 

Raspberry Essence 8} oi. 

Rose Water 9f " 

Honey Basic Ether 131 " 

Glycerin 2 lb. 

Alcohol 6 " 

10 lb. 

268. Hop 

Hop Oil, Terpenelees (1 :10) } dr. 

Cumarin 7J " 

Apple Essence 5} oz. 

Hop Basic Ether 10 " 

Hop Essence 4 lb. 

Alcohol 5 " 

10 lb. 

269. Cola Nut 

Vanillin 1J dr. 

Cumarin 2} " 

Ethyl Formate 10J " 

Cacao Basic Ether 13} " 

Cacao Essence 1 lb. 

Sweet Orange Essence .... 1 J " 

Cola Nut Essence 2 " 

Proof Spirit 4 " 

10 lb. 

270. Lemon 

Lemon Basic Ether 1 lb. 

Lemon Essence 4 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

271. Lime 

Lime Basic Ether 1 lb. 

Lime Essence 4 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 1b. 

272. Malt 

Honey Flavor Oil 1 dr. 

Malt Basic Ether } lb. 

Malt Essence 4J " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 335 



273. Maraschino 

Universal Basic Ether 10 oz. 

Maraschino Essence. 4 lb. 6 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

101b. 

274. Melon 

Vanillin.., 8 dr. 

Sweet Orange Essence .... 3} oz. 

Melon Basic Ether 12 " 

Melon Essence A lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

275. Milk Caramel 

Milk Caramel Basic 

Ether 10 oz. 

Hazelnut Essence ... 1 lb. 6 " 

Glycerin 2 " 

Proof Spirit 6 " 

101b. 

276. Mirabelle 

Vanillin i dr. 

Benzaldehyde 4} " 

Peach flavor Oil 7 " 

Vanillin 1} oz. 

Pineapple Essence 8J " 

Mirabelle Basic Ether 13 J " 

Mirabelle Essence 3} lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

277. Mulberry 

Orris Oil (1 :100)... 2J dr. 

Heliotropin 5 J " 

Mulberry Basic Ether 12} oz. 

Mulberry Essence. . . 4 lb. 3 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

278. Nectar 

Peach Flavor Oil 2} dr. 

Vanillin 5J " 

Rum Essence. 7J oz. 

Malt Essence 8 " 

Honey Basic Ether. . 10 " 

Grape Essence 3 lb. 6 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



279. Nectarine 

Peach Flavor Oil 3 dr. 

Vanillin 5 " 

Peach Basic Ether.. . 13} oz. 

Peach Essence 1 lb. 10 '' 

Strawberry Essence . 2} lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

280. Nougat 

Vanillin 6 dr. 

Benzaldehyde 10 " 

Butyric Acid 2} oz. 

Coffee Essence v 4} " 

Cacao Basic Ether 1J lb. 

Hazelnut Essence 4 " 

Proof Spirit 4 " 

10 lb. 

281. Bitter Orange 

Lemon Essence J lb. 

Bitter Orange Fruit Tinc- 
ture J " 

Bitter Orange Basic Ether. 1 " 

Sweet Orange Essence .... 3 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

282. Sweet Orange 

Sweet Orange Basic Ether.. 1 lb. 
Sweet Orange Essence .... 4 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

101b. 

283. Orris 

Orris Oil (1 :100)... ^dr. 

Lemon Oil J " 

Orris Basic Ether. . . 13 J oz. 

Orris Essence 4 lb. 2§ " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

284. Peach 

Orris Oil (1 : 100) 2} dr. 

Vanillin 5§ " 

Apple Essence 2 oz. 

Peach Basic Ether 13 J " 

Peach Essence 4 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 *' 

10 



336 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



285. Pear 

Bergamot Oil 31 dr. 

Cumarin 41 " 

Vanillin 8 " 

Lemon Essence 4 oz. 

Currant Essence 5 J " 

Pear Basic Ether 131 " 

Pear Essence 3 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

286. Persico 

Almond Basic Ether 1 lb. 

Persico Essence 4 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

101b. 

287. Pineapple 

Pineapple Basic Ether .... 1 lb. 

Pineapple Essence 4 

Proof Spirit 5 



u 



ti 



101b. 

288. Pine Needle 

Universal Basic Ether 10 oz. 

Pine Needle Essence. 4 lb. 6 " 

Proof Spirit _5_^ 

101b. 

289. Pistachio Nut 

Cognac Oil 1} dr. 

Benzaldehyde 4f " 

Vanillin 6 " 

Butyric Acid (100%) 1} oz. 

Peach Flavor Oil 4 J " 

Pistachio Basic Ether 13§ " 

Pistachio Essence 3| lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

290. Plum 

Hcliotropin 8 dr. 

Plum Basic Ether. . . 131 oz. 

Plum Essence 4 lb. 2 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



291. Prunelle 

Orris Oil (1:100) 2J dr. 

Peach Flavor Oil 5} " 

Vanillin 8 " 

Cacao Essence 3 oz. 

Rum Essence 61 " 

Mirabelle Basic Ether 131 " 

Prunelle Essence 3} lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



292. Punch 

Pineapple Essence. . . 21 oz. 

Sweet Orange Essence 3} " 

Lemon Essence 4 " 

Rum Essence 4 lb. 6 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



293. Quince 

Benzaldehyde 2} dr. 

Vanillin 51 " 

Pineapple Essence 10 " 

Quince Basic Ether 131 oz. 

Quince Essence 31 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

294. Quodlibet 

Peppermint Oil 4 dr. 

Heliotropin 4 " 

Raspberry Essence 7} oz. 

Lemon Essence 8 l< 

Pear Essence 1 lb. 

Strawberry Essence 2 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 



295. Raspberry 

Currant Essence 61 02. 

Raspberry Basic Ether 131 " 

Raspberry Essence 3} lb- 
Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 




■IONERY, BAKEEY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 337 






296. Ratafia 

Nerolin 

Vanillin 

Raspberry Essence 

Strawberry Essence 

Hweet Orange Essence, . . 
Universal Biisic Ether . . . 

Lemon Essence 

Proof Spirit 



207. Gri 



Cumarin 

Currant Essence 

Green Gage Basic Ether. 

Green Gage Essence 

Proof Spirit 



13J « 
1 lb. 
21 ■ 



7Jo*. 
12* " 
311b. 



208. Itoi'K Drops 

Peppermint Oil 

Peach Flavor Oil 

Rum Essence. 

Sweet Orange Essence. . . . 

Lemon Essence 

Pineapple Essence. 

Universal Basic Ether. , . . 
Proof Spirit 



299. Rcm 

Birch Tar Oil 

Lemon Oil 

Peru Balsam 

Viuiilliii. ,. 

Ethyl Butyratc 

Ethyl Acetate 

Ethyl Formate 

Genuine 



300. Swedish Punch 
D Caramel Essence. ... I! 

&c, Genuine 1! 

Lemon Essence 

c Caramel Essence. . . H 



A dr. 
A " 



301. Strawberry 
(Domestic) 

Domestic Strawberry Basic 
Ether j lb. 

Domestic Strawberry Es- 
sence 4J ■' 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

302. Strawberry 
(Wild) 

Wild Strawberry 

Basic Ether 131 ob. 

Wild Strawberry Es- 
sence 4 lb. 2j " 

Proof Spirit . 



10 lb. 

303. Tangerine 

Sweet Orange Basic Ether. 1 lb. 

Sweet Orange EBSence .... 4 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

304. Tea 

Vanillin.. 8 dr. 

Pineapple Essence. . . 7 j o*. 

Lemon Essence 8 " 

Tea Basic Ether 10 " 

Tea Essence 3 lb. 6 " 

Proof Spirit . . 



10 lb. 

305. Universal Caramel Eb- 

(Used for rinsing out the tin boxes 
for caramels.) 

Bergamot Oil 1J 

Honey Flavor Oil 6J 

Peach Flavor Oil. .. , 8 

Coriander Oil 8 

Anise Oil 8 

Sweet Orange Oil 8 ot. 

Ethyl Butyratc 1 lb. 

Ethyl (Enanthate 1J " 

Amy! Acetate 31 " 

Amy) Butyrate _4 ^_ 

10 lb. 



338 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



306. Vanilla 

Vanilla Basic Ether . 10 oz. 

Vanilla Essence 4 lb. 6 " 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

101b. 

307. Walnut 

Benzaldehyde 4 dr. 

Mace Oil 6 " 

Vanillin 6 " 

Lemon Oil 12 " 

Butyric Acid (100%) 1 J oz. 

Peach Flavor Oil 2J " 



Nut Basic Ether 10J oz. 

Nut Essence 4 lb. 

Proof Spirit 5 " 

10 lb. 

308. Woodbupt 

Vanillin 2J dr. 

Eugenol 5J " 

Cumarin 2) oz. 

.Universal Basic Ether 10 " 
Tonka Bean Tinc- 
ture lib. 3 " 

Proof Spirit _8_^ 

101b. 



Vn. FAT-SOLUBLE WAFER FLAVORS 

The flavoring for wafers has to be imparted to a vegetable fat, 
with which the butter mass which is to serve as a filter for the 
wafers is aromatized. For this purpose paraffin oil was gener- 
ally used, but a vegetable oil, such as olive or sesame oil, is much 
better adapted. In making these flavors, the basic ether com- 
pounds, described in Part V, are dissolved according to the 
following table. In case a slight turbidity should occur, the 
preparation must be filtered warm with the aid of some infusorial 
earth. The wafer flavors are also marketed in a more consistent, 
or butter-like form, and in this case the base is a purified cocoa- 
nut butter, or also cacao butter, the mixture being effected with 
the basic ether on the water-bath, the fat being heated until just 
melted. If any coloring is desired, fat-soluble colors such as 
alkanin, chlorophyl, orlean, etc., may be used. The table gives 
the number of ounces of the basic ether compounds required to 
yield 10 lb. of finished wafer flavor; and the numbers refer to the 
formulas already given. The number of ounces mentioned are to 
be mixed with the fat it is desired to use, and the whole then made 
up to 10 lb. 



309. Apricot 

310. Arrac 

311. Banana 

312. Bitter Almond 

313. Cherry 

314. Chocolate 

315. Cacao 

316. Coffee 



13J oz. No. 171 

1 lb. No. 216 

1 " No. 173 

1 " No. 217 

13J oz. No. 178 

10 " No. 219 

13J " No. 218 

12 " No. 220 



317. Cognac 1 lb. 

318. Cream 10 oz. 

319. Curacao 13J " 

320. Currant 15 

321. English Wafers 12 

322. Ice Cream.... 1 lb. 

323. Lemon 1 " 

324. Nectar 10 oz. 



« 



<< 



No. 221 
No. 222 
No. 223 
No. 182 
No. 224 
No. 225 
No. 191 
No. 227 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 339 



325. Nougat 

326. Sweet Orange. 

327. Peach 

328. Pear 

329. Pineapple .... 

330. Pistachio 

331. Punch 



13} oz. No. 228 
1 lb. No. 199 
13} oz. No. 201 
13} " No. 202 
10 " No. 203 
13} " No. 204 
13} " No. 229 



332. Raspberry.. 

333. Rum 

334. Strawberry. 

335. Tangerine. . 

336. Vanilla 

337. Walnut.... 

338. Woodruff. . 



13} oz. No. 207 

1 lb. No. 230 

12 oz. No. 209 

1 lb. No. 211 

10 oz. No. 213 

13} " No. 214 

12 " No. 231 



Vm. FLOWER FLAVORS, GENUINE AND ARTIFICIAL — FOR 
FONDANTS, CARAMELS AND ETHERS 

For making the so-called genuine essences of floral and flavor- 
ing substances, the French flower extracts, in the form of the 
quality known as "triple extracts," are employed, while for 
making the artificial substitutes' the solutions of odorous sub- 
stances are used. In any case, the odorous substances must be 
stabilized by means of suitable fixatives. The universal basic 
ether serves as a base for the floral ethers, and the fixative base 
consists of a violet type, which is adapted for use with cassie, 
orange flowers, roses and violets, while for elder flower, helio- 
trope, hyacinth, jasmine, mignonette and lily of the valley, an 
elder flower fixative base serves best. 

339. Elder Flower Type Fixative Base 

Macerate 1 lb. elder flowers with 4 pints of proof spirit for a 
week, and then work up to obtain 3 lb. tincture to which then 
add 1J dr. honey flavor oil. 

340. Violet Type Fixative Base 

Macerate 1 lb. Florentine orris root with 4 pints of alcohol of 
15° overproof for six days, and then express off 3 lb. of liquid, to 
which add 2\ dr. ionone. 

341. Composition of Genuine 342. Composition of Genuine 

Floral Fondant Essence Floral Ether 

Triple Extract li oz. Triple Extract 1 J oz. 

Basic Essence 1 J " Basic Essence 1 J " 

Glycerin li " Universal Basic Ether 13 " 

Alcohol 15° overproof llj " 1 lb. 

1 lb. 

Artificial Floral Fondant Essences and Floral Ethers 

In these the triple extracts are replaced by solutions of odor- 
ous substances, as given in the following table, the quantities 



340 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

mentioned being dissolved in strong alcohol to make 1J oz. of 
finished product, which is then used like the triple extracts as 
above: 

343. Cassie 10 dr. Aub£pine (Anisaldehyde) 

344. Heliotrope 6 " Heliotropin 

345. Hyacinth 6 " Hyacinthin 

346. Jasmine 6 " Artificial Jasminol 

347. Lilac 12 " Terpineol 

348. Lily of the Valley 12 " Terpineol (Muguet) 

349. Orange Flower li " Artificial Neroli Oil 

350. Rose J " Artificial Rose Oil 

351. Violet 2J " Ionone, 20% 

IX. SPICE EXTRACTS FOR BAKING 
The essences used for flavoring cakes and other bakery products 
are usually made from volatile oils, because the natural essences, 
i.e., those made from fruits, do not withstand the heat of the 
oven. Where fruit essences are ordered used, the fondant es- 
sences are to be employed. The essences of the tropical fruit 
rinds are to be used in the form of oil essences. For the nut-like 
extracts, such as hazel, pistachio, cocoa and walnut, the corre- 
sponding basic essences are employed, and the like is the case 
with the other essences, such as coffee, cacao, chocolate, etc. 

(a) Simple Spice Extracts 

These consist of solutions of volatile oils in slightly diluted 
alcohol, and have the following composition: 

Volatile Oil Alcohol Water 

352. Allspice 1} oz. 13 J oz. 1 o*. 

353. AnLse 1 " 14J " } 

354. Star Anise } " 14J " } 

355. Bergamot J " 15i " - 

356. Bitter Almond 1§ " 9 J " 5 " 

357. Calamus 1 " 14 " 1 " 

358. Cardamom 1 " 14 " 1 " 

359. Cinnamon 1 " 14 " 1 " 

360. Cloves 1 " 13* " 1J " 

361. Coriander 1 " 13* " 1J " 

362. Fennel 1 " 13J " 1J " 

363. Ginger 1 " 13$ " 1J " 

364. Lemon 2 " 14 " 

365. Mace 1 " 14 " 1 " 

366. Nutmeg 1 " 14 " 1 

367. Orange Flower i" 14 " 1J 

368. Rose I dr. 14J " 1J 



it 



« 
It 



I 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 341 

(6) Compositions 

The formulas for the fondant essences serve as the basis for 
most of the compositions, in so far as the basic essences are of 
vegetable character. 

369. For arrac, cognac and rum essences, intended for bakery 
uses, only the pure genuine liquors fortified by the addition of 6 dr. 
vanillin per pound are employed. 



370. Lemon Spice Extract 

Cinnamon Oil 1 J dr. 

Vanillin 1} 

Clove Oil 2J 

Lemon Oil 11 " 

Alcohol 15 oz. 

TTb. 



n 



n 



371. Spice Oil for Baking 

Fennel Oil 1} 

Mace Oil 2\ 

Cardamom Oil 2 J 

Cinnamon Oil 6 

Clove Oil 12 

Benzaldehyde 3 J 

Lemon Oil 5 

Alcohol 6 



dr. 
u 

n 

it 

tt 

oz. 

It 
tt 



372. Tonca Bean Extract 

Vanillin 1J dr 

Cumarin 6J " 

Tonca Bean Tincture 3 J oz 

Distilled Water 4 " 

Alcohol 8 " 



1 lb. 



373. Violet Extract for 
Baking 



Ionone (20%) 

Triple Violet Extract 
Alcohol 



2}dr 

1J oz 

14} " 



1 lb. 



About 1 lb. 



(c) Bakery Spice Extracts 



374. Biscuit 

Clove Oil l}dr. 

Vanillin 4J 

Benzaldehyde 10 

Alcohol 13} oz. 

Rose Water 1} 



tt 



n 



tt 



1 lb. 



375. Butter Spice 



Honey Flavor Oil 

Benzaldehyde 

Sweet Orange Oil . 
Lemon Oil 



J dr. 

2| " 
4 " 



Butyric Acid 1 } oz. 

Alcohol 12} 

Bitter Almond Water 1} 



n 



tt 



1 lb. 



376. Gingerbread 



Apricot Flavor Oil 1 } dr. 

Cardamom Oil 2} " 

Clove Oil 4 " 

Ginger Oil 8 " 

Lemon Oil 8 " 

Alcohol 12J oz. 

Rose Water 2 " 



342 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



377. Glaze; Flavor 

Benzaldehyde 6 dr. 

Lemon Oil 10 " 

Rum Essence 2 oz. 

Alcohol 12 " 

Rose Water 1 lb. 

lib. 

Note: Where a fruit taste or other 
aromatic flavor is desired, the appro- 
priate essence is used instead of the 
alcohol in the formula. 

378. Honeycomb 

Honey Flavor Oil li dr. 

Cardamom Oil li " 

Cinnamon Oil 2 " 

Clove Oil 2i " 

Orange Oil 5 " 

Lemon Oil J oz. 

Alcohol 12J " 

Bitter Almond Water 2j " 

1 lb. 

379. Macaroons 

Peach Flavor Oil 1J dr. 

Vanillin 3J " 

Orange Oil 5 " 

Benzaldehyde 6 " 

Alcohol 13 oz. 

Brown Coffee Essence .... _2 ^_ 

1 lb. 

380. Melangebits 

Peach Flavor Oil 1J dr. 

Orange Oil 3J " 

Benzaldehyde 5 " 

Orange Flower Water 14 " 

Strawberry Essence 2 J oz. 

Alcohol 12 " 

1 lb. 

381. Pastry 

Celery Oil 2§ dr. 

Ginger Oil 2§ " 

Clove Oil 2J " 

Butyric Acid (100%) 5 " 

Lemon Oil 7J " 



Alcohol 13 os. 

Orange Flower Water If " 

1 lb. 

382. Plum Pudding 

Coriander Oil 1J dr. 

Anise Oil 1J " 

Vanillin 2J " 

Benzaldehyde 5 " 

Lemon Oil 6 " 

Alcohol 11 oz. 

Rose Water 4 " 

1 lb. 

383. Print-en 

Cardamom Oil 1 dr. 

Coriander Oil 2 " 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2 " 

Vanillin 5 " 

Lemon Oil 10 " 

Alcohol 13 os. 

Rose Water 1} " 

1 lb. 

384. Speculattub 

Cinnamon Oil J dr. 

Clove Oil 1| " 

Benzaldehyde 5 " 

Butyric Acid (100%) ..... 6 " 

Lemon Oil 7 " 

Alcohol 13 oz. 

Rose Water 1} " 

1 lb. 

385. Tea Biscuits 

Vanillin 6 dr. 

Benzaldehyde 6 " 

Lemon Oil 8 " 

Alcohol 12 os. 

Orange Flower Water 2| " 

1 lb. 

386. Wedding Cake 

Vanillin 1} dr. 

Benzaldehyde 4i " 

Sweet Orange Oil 11 " 

Alcohol 13 os. 

Rose Water 2 " 

1 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 343 

X. CONFECTIONERY LACQUERS 

The object in lacquering confectionery and chocolates is not 
only to improve the appearance of the goods, but also to guard 
them from the attacks of certain insects. Where the laws permit, 
alcohol, denaturized by the addition of 0.5% of turpentine oil and 
a little wood alcohol, may be used as a solvent. 

387. Purified Benzoin 

Crude Palambang or Sumatra benzoin, which always contains 
some imbedded pieces of bark, is comminuted, and dissolved in 
strong alcohol. Usually twice as much alcohol is used as the 
quantity of benzoin taken, and after frequent stirring for several 
days, an extract is obtained which rapidly clarifies itself. The 
residue may be again treated with strong alcohol. The extract 
is then distilled, the heat being raised until the thermometer in 
the still stands at 250° F. The alcohol distils over between 173° 
and 176°. The thermometer then rises rapidly to 212° C, and then 
slowly to 220° C. Then the heat is removed, and the resin allowed 
to run off into broad, shallow tins where it rapidly cools. The 
white, suffocating fumes evolved consist of benzoic acid. The 
purified benzoin must have a vitreous facture, and thin splinters 
must be transparent. It is employed for the rapid preparation of 
chocolate lacquers. 

388. Purified Shellac 

For this there is used the bleached, white shellac, which, how- 
ever, still contains from 9 to 14% of water, due to its mode of 
manufacture. The mass is comminuted, and allowed to dry in an 
airy place with frequent turning-over and mixing, which requires 
from 3 to 4 weeks. Incompletely dried shellac dissolves only with 
difficulty, and incompletely, and prevents the clarification, deposi- 
tion and filtration of the lacquers. 

The following formulas are for lacquers obtained by cold solu- 
tion of the resins in alcohol. The preparations are clarified by 
standing, and the liquids are then filtered through filtering paper, 
the filtration being facilitated by being conducted in a warm place. 

389. Benzoin Lacquer for According to the quality of the 

Chocolates benzoin, from 27 to 29 lb. of lacquer 

Benzoin, Crude 10 lb. are obtained. 

Alcohol 20 " 



344 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



390. Lacquer for Chocolates 

Brown Shellac 5 lb. 

Sandarac 10 " 

Alcohol 30 " 

To the residual solution obtained, 
there are added further: 

Alcohol-Soluble Brown 
Anilin Dye 3 oz. 



392. Glaze Lacquer for Cream 
Confections 

Pale Colophony 1 lb 

Sandarac 1 

Alcohol 4 J 



u 



tl 



391. Brilliant Lacquer for 
Confections 

Mastic i lb 

Brown Shellac 1 " 

Sandarac 2 " 

Alcohol 7 



n 



393. Gingerbread Lacquer 

Sandarac 1 lb. 

Alcohol 2 " 

394. Marchpane Lacquer 
(From Sandarac, for cheap march- 
pane.) 

Sandarac 1 lb. 

Alcohol 2 J " 

395. Marchpane Lacquer 
(From shellac, for better products.) 
Shellac, Bleached and Dried 1 lb. 
Alcohol 2| 



« 



B. Fine Culinary Essences 

The simple culinary spice essences are usually represented by 
solutions of volatile oils or extracts of vegetables of aromatic 
character. Besides these there are a number of compounds 
which are intended as additions to the warm spices, as well as for 
the pickling of pickles, and lastly the spice salts. 

I. SIMPLE SPICE EXTRACTS 

(a) Solutions of Volatile Oils 



Extract for 



396. Allspice 

397. Basil 

398. Bitter Almond 

399. Caraway 

400. Celery 

401. Ceylon Cinnamon . . 

402. Cloves 

403. Coriander 

404. Dill 

405. Tarragon 

406. Fennel 

407. Laurel leaves 

408. Marjoram 

409. Mugwort 

410. Parsley 

411. Savory 

412. Sage 

413. Thyme 



Alcohol 
Volatile 38° 
oil. over- 
proof. 



oi. 

i 

3 
4 

J 

II 
i 

i 
1 
1 

3 
4 

3 
15 

1 
2 

1} 

4 

1 
3 

4 

1 
J 



OS. 

12 

13 

10 

12 

12 

14 

13 

15 

13 

13 

14| 

13 

13 

13 

13 

13 

12 

12 



Dib- 
tilled 
water. 

oz. 

31 
2J 
5} 

21 
31 

1J 
21 

1 

1 
<>1 
~4 

21 

2J' 

h 

21 
2 

21 
31 
31 



1 oz. extract corresponds to 



5 oz. allspice 

10 " fresh herb 

3 lb. almonds 

5 oz. caraway 

5 heads celery 

5 oz. cinnamon 

cloves 

coriander 

fresh herb 
t« «« 



i • * 



o 

5 

10 

10 

m 

O 

m 

O 

10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 



• i 



i t 



1 1 



(i 



< t 



fennel 

laurel leaves 
marjoram, dry 
fresh herb 






it 



(CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 345 



(6) Fortified Extractives from Vegetables 

For the culinary spices the use of extractive flavors for rounding 
out the taste of certain aromatics cannot be avoided. In making 
such flavors 1 part of the aromatic drug is macerated with 4 parts 
of alcohol of 20° overproof , and after 6 days 3 parts by weight of 
extract are expressed off. To each pound of this extract there are 
then added the following quantities of volatile oils: 



1 lb. extract. 


Volatile oil to 
be added. 


1 os. corresponds to 


414. Anise 

415. Calamus 

416. Cardamom 

417. Cinnamon Flower 

418. Ginger 

419. Juniper Berries 

420. Mace and Nutmeg 

421. Pepper, Black or White 


OI. 

i 

\ 

1 

i 
i 
J 


5 oz. anise 

10 " calamus 
5 " cardamom 
5 " cinnamon flower 

10 " ginger 

10 " juniper berries 
5 " mace or nutmeg 
7£ oz. black, or 10 oz. white, 
pepper 



(c) Simple Vegetable Extracts 

The drugs are macerated in the proportions stated for 6 days 
with alcohol of the strength given, and then expressed. 



422. Asparagus (from 

dried peels) 

423. Capsicum or 

Chillies 

424. Saffron 



425. Vanilla 



Extract 


Alcohol 


proportion. 


strength. 


1 : 3 


proof 


1 : 5 


38° over- 




proof 


1 : 10 


38° over- 




proof 


1 : 10 


proof 


)T lb. esser 


ice.) 



Employment. 



§ oz. per gallon bouillon 

1 oz. corresponds to 3 me- 
dium capsicum pods 
Coloring pastry 

1 dr. per pint sauce; 1 dr. 



per lb. pastry 



(d) Extracts from Fresh Materials. (Capers, Chervil and Carrots) 

Capers and chervil are cut up small and expressed, while carrots 
are first scraped, and then expressed, in order to remove the juices. 
Each 2 lb. of the material so prepared are macerated with 4 lb. 
alcohol of 38° overproof for 3 days, and then expressed. The 
residue is then treated with 2 lb. of the expressed juice for one 
day, and again expressed, after which the two liquids are united. 
In the case of carrot extract, there are further added 6 dr. of carrot 



_:i 



346 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

426. Capers J to J oz. per gallon sauce 

427. Carrots 1 dr. corresponds to a medium sized carrot 

428. Chervil } to J oz. per gallon bouillon 

(e) Extracts of Fungi 

429. Champignons. 431. Mushrooms. 

430. Morels. 432. Truffles. 

1 oz. of each of these extracts represents about 10 oz. of the fresh 
fungus; about £ oz. is used per gallon of sauce or farce. The 
various fungi are used only in dried form, as only when dried do 
they develop their characteristic flavor. Great care must be 
taken, however, that they are dried at a moderate heat. The 
extracts are made as follows: One lb. of the dried fungus is macer- 
ated with 2 lb. alcohol of 20° overproof for 6 days, and the alcohol 
is then allowed to run off without expressing. To the residue 

1 lb. of water is then added, the mixture allowed to stand for one 
day, and then fully expressed, and the liquids are united. No 
additions are necessary. 

(J) Onion Extracts 

These extracts are made from well-peeled onions which are to be 
finely cut up. In order that the extract should not be too mucous 
in character, the comminuted onions are first well expressed, the 
juice being discarded as valueless. To every pound of the resi- 
due then add 2 lb. strong alcohol, let stand for 3 days, and then 
express. Treat the residue once again, but with 2 lb. of proof 
spirit this time, then express after 3 days, and unite the liquids. 
To every pound of extract there is further to be added J dr. true 
volatile oil of mustard. 

Employment of Onion Extracts 

,oo ™_- i o i- (1 oz - = 10 oz - fresh chives or 

433. Chives and Garlic \, , , ,. , .. 

(J dr. = 1 medium large garlic 

434. Onions 1 dr. = 1 medium onion 

435. Porrets }■ dr. = 1 medium porret 

436. Shallots 1 oz. = 10 oz. shallots 

From l£ to 2 dr. of these onion extracts are to be used for 
\ gallon of bouillon or 1 lb. of meat. For boiling with fats, 1} to 

2 dr. suffice for 5 lb. of fat. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 347 



H. CULINARY SPICE EXTRACT COMPOUNDS 
(a) M eat Spice Extracts 



437. For Beef, Veal and 
.Fowl 

Champignon Extract 1 J oz 

Celery Extract 2 

Porret Extract 2J 

Parsley Extract 2J 

Carrot Extract 3J 

Onion Extract 4 



a 



n 



(t 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 



438. For Mutton, Pork and 
Smoked Beef 

Clove Extract J 

Mace Extract } 

Marjoram Extract ] 

Thyme Extract } 

Basil Extract } 

Savory Extract 1 J 

Celery Extract 3} 

Shallot Extract 7 



oz. 

u 
tt 
n 
n 



1 lb. 



439. For Game, Wild Fowl 
and Meats to be Treated 
like Game 



oz. 

tt 

tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 



Truffle Extract | 

Bay Laurel Extract } 

Cardamom Extract f 

Mace Extract 1 J 

Sage Extract 1 J 

Chives Extract 2 J 

Champignon Extract 2 J 

Juniper Extract 2J 

Onion Extract 3} 

r 

440. For Boiled and Fried 
Fish 

Ginger Extract j oz. 

Clove Extract j 

Bay Laurel Extract 1J 

Pimenta Extract 2 J 

Pepper Extract 2 J 

Onion Extract 8 " 



lb. 



tt 



a 



tt 



tt 



441. For Pickling, Shellfish, 
Etc. 

Tarragon Extract J oz. 

Sage Extract } 

Cardamom Extract } 

Dill Extract 1* 

Bay Laurel Extract 2 

Capsicum Extract 2} 

Onion Extract 8 



tt 



u 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 

442. Forced Meats 

Mugwort Extract J oz. 

Cardamom Extract t 

Porret Extract 1 J 

Savory Extract 1 J 

Caper Extract 1 J 

Truffle Extract 1J 

Parsley Extract 1J 

Champignon Extract 3 

Onion Extract 4 " 

1 lb. 

443. Goulash, Ragouts, Mock 
Turtle, Etc. 

Juniper Berry Extract f oz. 

Parsley Extract I 

Pepper Extract 1§ 

Morel Extract 2 J 

Asparagus Extract 3 

Shallot Extract 3J 

Onion Extract 4 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 

444. Patties 

Bay Laurel Extract § oz. 

Cardamom Extract } 

Caper Extract J 

Morel Extract 1 J 

Pepper Extract 1 J 

Truffle Extract 3 

Onion Extract 3 

Celery Extract 5 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



n 



\ \s>. 



348 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



445. For Brines, Aspic, Etc. 

Caraway Extract | o*. 

Basil Extract 1J " 

Bay Laurel Extract l\ " 

Pimenta Extract 2J " 

Pepper Extract 3 " 

Onion Extract 7 ^ 

1 lb. 



446. For Soups 



Morel Extract . . 
Chervil Extract. 
Celery Extract. 
Parsley Extract 
Carrot Extract . 



<< 
<< 
n 



1J oz 
1J " 
3 
3 
7 
1 lb. 



447. Sausage Spice Extract for 
Bologna, Sausage, Etc. 

Bay Laurel Extract J oz. 

Savory Extract 1J " 

Pimenta Extract 2 " 

Pepper Extract 5 " 

Onion Extract 7_ " 

1 lb. 



448. Sausage Spice Extract kor 
Hausmacher Sausage 



Basil Extract 

Thyme Extract 

Pepper Extract 2J " 



J oz. 

4 



Marjoram Extract 6 

Onion Extract 6 



ox. 



4« 



1 lb. 



449. Sausage Extract for 
Smoked Sausages (Salami, 
Mortadella, Etc.) 

Cardamom Extract } oz. 

Savory Extract 1\ " 

Basil Extract 2 u 

Pepper Extract 4 " 

Garlic Extract 8 ^_ 

rib: 

General Method of employing 
Meat Spice Extracts, etc. : 

i to J dr. is to be used for every 
quart of meat bouillon, sauce or 
other liquid, and also for every 
pound of meat or meat mass. 

450. Spice Extract for Mulled 
Beer, Punch, Mulled Wine, 
Etc. 

Vanilla Extract 1 J oz. 

Cardamom Extract 1 J " 

Pimenta Extract 3 " 

Clove Extract 3 " 

Cinnamon Extract 6 ^_ 

1 lb. 

Of this, i dr. is to be used per pint 
of finished beverage. 



(b) Pickled-spice Extracts for Mustard, Spiced Vinegar } Pickles 

and Piquant Sauces 



451. Spiced-pickle Extract 

Clove Extract J 

bill Extract 1J 

Celery Extract 1 5 

Pimenta P^xtract 2 J 

Acetic Acid (00%) 3 

Capsicum Extract 3 

Pepper Extract 4_ 



oz. 

ti 

<( 
<( 

n 
<< 
n 



452. Curry-spice Extract 

Turmeric Extract (made 
from turmeric roots like 

ginger extract) J lb. 

Ginger Extract i 

Pepper Extract J 



« 



c« 



1 lb. 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 349 

453. Tarragon Extract 456. Mustard-pickles Spice 

Acetic Acid (60%) I J oz. Extract 

Celery Extract 3 " Volatile Mustard Oil J dr. 

Tarragon Extract llj " Alcohol 1J oz. 

I |b Cardamom Extract 1) 

Acetic Acid (60%) 1 j 

Capsicum Extract 11 

Celery Extract 1} 

454. "Fines Herbes" Spice Ex- Onion Extract. lj 

tract pok Vineuar, Mustard, Pepper Extract 3 

Vinegar Fruits, Salads anu Dill Extract 4 

Fillers 1 

Mugwort Extract Jo 

Juniper Extract. J 

Thyme Extract 1 

Parsley Extract I 

Acetic Acid (60%) lj 

Savory Extract 3 

Caper Extract . . •. 3 

Leek Extract 5} 



457. Piccalilli Spice Extract 



Ho*. 

n " 
n " 

J dr. 

IJoz. 



455. Mixed-pickles. Spice 
Extract 

Bay Laurel Extract ( 

Tarragon Extract J 

DillExtraet 1) 

Acetic Acid (60%) 1 j 

Pimenta Extract 2) 

Capsicum Extract 2} 

Caper Extract 3 

Shallot Extract 3J 

1 lb. 



Pepper Extract ,..,., 

Celery Extract 

Pimenta Extract ...'.. 
Volatile Mustard Oil. . 

Alcohol 

Leek Extract 2 J ' 

Pimenta Extract 3 " 

Ca]>sieum Extract 4j " 

1 lb. 

458. Salt-pickle Spice 

Extract 

Acetic Acid (60%) 1$ oz. 

Mugwort Extract 1) " 

Savory Extract 1 1 " 

Tarragon Extract 31 " 

Dill Extract 8 " 

I lb. 
Of these mixtures, 1 to 1 dram is 

used per pint of vinegar used for 

pickling. 



HI. VINEGAR ESSENCE SPICES 

Employment: 6 dr. per pound of vinegar essence (containing 
60-S0% vinegar), of which 8 parts are required to make 100 parts 
of domestic vinegar. 

4 dr. 



459. "Aux Fines Herbes" 
CloveOil lidr. 




Celery Oil. 

Tarragon Oil 

Alcohol 

Acetic Acid (80%) 




• • -i.au \ .•;: 



.:- :r 



'l 



i"» I VI. V'vr . : 



-. ..i V'.' 



*.'.'• '\\tr:t''>. 

'." fifK- T: s j.;.. . 
J: 1 : of Tf.#- -./.• 



x- .'/ 



4* 7. Phi'i'Ki: >pi- 51 

*! ' ::n Kvr.-.'-r 

!-T L\T.;'f 

.*.••.*! 



Pi 
A« 

Pip 



r ;:: riif meat which i< to ho 



CONFECTIONERY, BAKERY AND CULINARY ESSENCES 351 



4G8. Bouillon Spice Salt for 
Potted Meats, Etc. 



idr. 



Basil Oil 

Celery Oil 1 

Parsley Oil li 

Carrot Seed Oil li 

Pepper Extract 2 

Leek Extract 5| 

Table Salt 15} oz . 

1 lb. 



n 



it 



<< 



n 



a 



469. Roast Spice Salt for 
Roasts, Broils, Etc. 

Carrot Seed Oil J dr. 

Parsley Seed Oil 1 

Celery Seed Oil 2J 

Pepper Extract 4 

Onion Extract 8 " 

Table Salt 15 oz. 

1 lb. 



a 



tt 



a 



470. Game Spice Salt for 
Game and Wild Fowl 

Sage Oil J dr. 

Cardamom Oil i 

Mace Oil | 

Juniper Oil | 

Pimenta Oil } 

Pepper Oil. 2\ 

Champignon Extract ..... 4 

Shallot Extract 8 

Table Salt 15 



n 



a 



u 



II 



II 



li 



ii 



471. Fish Spice Salt 

Bay Laurel Oil 

Clove Oil 

Ginger Oil 

Celery Oil 

Pimenta Oil 

Pepper Extract 

Onion Extract 

Table Salt 



oz. 



1 lb. 



idr. 

i " 

i " 
2| " 

3 " 

3 " 

7 " 

15 oz. 

1 lb. 



(c) Sausage Spice Salts 

The following are mixtures of spice extracts and volatile oils, 
to make quantities of 1 oz. By means of these, simple spice salts 
can be made for the treatment of unsalted meats, 1 oz. of the 
particular spice salt being mixed with 15 oz. of table salt. For 
making a double strength sausage spice salt, calculated on salted 
meat, 1 oz. of the spice substance is to be mixed with 7 oz. of table 
salt. For unsalted meat 10 oz. to 1 lb. of the spice salt per 100 lb. 
are used, while for salted meat 5 to 8 oz. per 100 lb. are required. 

472. Sausage Spice Salt 



u 



a 



a 



Bay Laurel Oil A dr. 

Savory Oil li 

Pimenta Oil 1J 

Onion Extract 5$ 

Pepper Extract 8 ^_ 

1 oz. 

473. For Country Sausage 

Marjoram Oil i dr. 

Pimenta Oil 1 " 

Pepper Oil 21 " 



Capsicum Extract 6 dr. 

Onion Extract 6 " 

1 oz. 



474. For Smoked Sausage 

Pimenta Oil* 1 dr. 

Cardamom Oil 1 " 

Parsley Oil 2 " 

Pepper Oil 2 " 

Pepper Extract Vt 



u 



\<OT*» 



s; 









L7-II- KI.i: >!■} : » 

■ • 'ii .... 

. • »ii 



.-**!• >alt iiii.\tiir*> ' 
•i ]>«t pint of pH-k;i:.4: 



PART VII 
COLORING MATTERS 

1. Physiological Determination of Colon. 

2. Vegetable Colors. 

3. Preparation of Vegetable Fat-soluble Dyes (Alkannin; Chlorophyll; Bixin) 

4. Application of Vegetable Dyes. 

5. Aniline, or Tar, Dyes (Dye Solutions; Inspissated and Paste Dyes). 

6. Bleaching and Decolorizing. 



i 



r 

■s 



r *2. 



PART VII 

COLORING MATTERS 

1. Physiological Determination of Colors 

According to modern scientific investigations, great importance 
must be ascribed to the influence of the senses of sight, smell and 
taste, as well as the psychological effects of these, on the digestion. 
The judgment in regard to the proper coloring is, in particular, of 
great importance because of the effect on digestion, and hence 
also on nutrition. Every nutrient or comestible usually has a 
color of its own which, according to its character, has a corre- 
sponding stimulant effect on the appetite. Where nature fails 
to impart such a color, this must be imparted to the preparation 
either by appropriate methods of manufacture or by means of 
suitable coloring matters. This coloring in effect increases the 
nutritional value of a nutrient, because of an apparently height- 
ened stimulus to digestion. Of course it is not the purpose of any 
coloring to create illusions regarding the effective values of nu- 
trients, such as imparting a color to those that have become spoiled 
and have lost their color, or by adding colors to make preparations 
resemble those which naturally are colored. For this reason it is 
generally forbidden to color preparations to imitate the charac- 
teristic colors of natural products such as wines, fruit juices, etc. 
This applies also to products from which these are chiefly made, 
while on the other hand the coloring, or the replacement of colors 
which have been lost, is regarded as permissible when declared. 
because in this case there is no intention to deceive, but only :,> 
heighten the appetizing quality. 

Nature itself decks its products, particularly tho^e of '.iv 
Vegetable Kingdom, with appetizing colors, as in fruits, \vkcm k .o< 
etc. In early times the colon used were obtained e\cl'.:.>m\* 
from natural product*, certain drugs, in fact. ywUlit^t ^* f > x - 4 ' ;" 
able dyes which found application chiefly in dyving. *> ' :v AM 
tar dye industry developed to undreamt proportion* viu'r»* ^ 
last century, the coal-far dyes produced displacvo Jv :ui.**- 

355 



356 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

vegetable dyes. The aniline dyes present the most varied and 
brilliant shades of colors, are of extreme intensity, and are very 
simple to use; they constitute the best possible coloring, partic- 
ularly for food products, because the vegetable colors are very 
unstable, and are easily changed by the action of acids, heat, etc, 
when products colored with them are long kept. However, the 
aniline dyes labor under a certain disadvantage, because they 
may contain arsenic derived from the raw materials from which 
they are made, hence they may be toxic. At the present time 
all communities regulate by law the employment of dyes, and 
demand that these be absolutely harmless, and hence in most 
countries the use of aniline dyes is allowed. Some countries, 
however, permit the use of only vegetable dyes in such cases where 
food products are allowed to be colored at all. 

2. Vegetable Dyes 

Blue: The only blue vegetable dye is indigo, which results 
from the oxidation of a colorless glucoside present in the indigo 
plant and various other species. Indigocarmine, a water-soluble 
form of indigo, is the sodium salt of indigosulphonic acid. Blue 
dyes are scarcely required for coloring nutrients and foods, but 
are serviceable as a basis for green dyes, i.e., mixed colors made 
from blue and yellow. 

Brown: The most usual coloring is sugar coloring, or caramel 
(burnt sugar), which serves for aqueous liquids, and which, when 
specially prepared, is used as the so-called "rum coloring" for 
alcoholic liquids. For this purpose a concentrated solution of 
caramel is mixed with strong alcohol, and when precipitation is 
complete, the mixture is filtered and the filtrate concentrated by 
evaporation to form an extract. Another brown coloring is 
catechu, a plant extract containing tannin, and which is particu- 
larly used for coloring rum. 

Yellow: Of all the vegetable dyes this is the most troublesome. 
Most of the raw materials possess the property of not being fast 
to acids, but developing their brilliant color only in the presence 
of alkalies. The most important of these are the yellow berries, or 
French berries, obtained from a buckthorn species (Rhamnus infec- 
toria) of which the unripe berries yield an intense yellow dye which, 
however, cannot be used in acid liquids. Safflower, the florets of 



COLORING MATTERS 357 

Carthamua tindorius, affords both a yellow and a reddish-yellow 
dye. The carthamic acid, obtained from the florets, dyes to the ex- 
tent of 3 to h%, and constitutes the only serviceable acid-fast vege- 
table yellow coloring, which may also be used for lemonades. For 
alcoholic liquids, tinctures of curcuma root or of saffron are used, 
but both have penetrating and characteristic tastes. Orlean, more 
commonly known as annatto, or arnotta, and used partly in the 
form of the fruit paste, partly in the form of seeds, obtained from 
a Bixa species (Bixa Orellana), contains a very intensive yellow 
vegetable dye which is particularly adapted for coloring oils, 
butter and cheese. 

Green: With the exception of chlorophyll, which is rather difficult 
to manage, green is usually a mixture of yellow and blue dyes 
using indigo as a base for the blue, and curcuma, saffron, or, 
safflower as the yellow. 

Red: The number of ret! dyes is comparatively large, because 
most fruit juices contain such a dye. Unfortunately, however, 
the major portion of the dye is contained in the skins, as for in- 
stance in the huckleberry, red grapes, etc., and only a small por- 
tion is found dissolved in the fruit juice. Dark fruit juices are 
used to impart a color to light-colored juices, but this, when done, 
must be declared on the label. Most rationally vegetable color- 
ings are made from berries, as huckleberries, by exhausting the 
berries, deprived of their juice, with alcohol, anil then evaporating 
the tincture to form an extract. In a similar manner the red 
coloring matter, ccnocyanin, present in the red grape, is obtained, 
and it serves more particularly for coloring vinegar, etc. The 
red dyes of fruits and fruit juices are exceedingly sensitive unless 
they are used in acid liquids. In alkaline liquids, for instance, 
they change to a dirty-green color. Other red dyes are found in 
various dye woods, such as santal wood, Pernambuco wood and 
also archil, a lichen yielding also cudbear. For coloring foods 
the mallow coloring matter found in the deep black flowers of 
Malva arborea is also largely used. The flowers also contain a 
considerable quantity of pectin, and particularly also tannin, at 
the points where they are attached to the calyx. The dried flowers 
are freed from these constituents and then treated with strong 
alcohol rendered decidedly acid with tartaric acid; on evaporating 
off the solvent there is obtained an extract which is employed to 
color acid food products, such as vinegar, etc. One of the mos 




358 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

important of the red dyes is the insect, cochineal, the coloring 
matter of which, carminic acid, constitutes the expensive but ray 
brilliant coloring which is frequently used in food products. 
Cochineal is only partially acid-fast, and develops a particulariy 
fine color in ammoniacal solution, nevertheless it is largely used 
for coloring confectionery and bakery products. 

Violet: Under this is understood mixed colors of indigo and, 
cochineal. 






3. Manufacture op Fat-soluble Vegetable Dyes 



The manufacture of alkannin, chlorophyll and annatto 
is very general, and is profitable on the large manufacturing 
ljccausc the products are very widely used for coloring foods 
edibles of all kinds, hence a description of the methods of maiMH 
facture Ls in place here, the more so as these dyes are also con< 
in the manufacture of essences. In all three cases we are com 
with the exhaustion of a vegetable extract which is present fc 
these dyes as an extractive matter. 

Alkannin: This is a fine red dye, present in large quantity If 
the foliaccous layer of bark of the oriental alkanet root (AnahttB 
tinctoria). The dried root is exhausted in an iron extraction appa- 
ratus with benzin. The dye is very sensitive to copper, and hence 
can l)e made only in iron vessels. The yield of fat-soluble dye ■ 
5 to 0%. An alcoholic extract can also be made by exhausting 
the root with alcohol, but it is not soluble in diluted alcohol, Ot 
water. With alkalies the dye gives a fine blue color. Alkannin 
is used only for coloring fats, etc. 

Chlorophyll: This preparation is very largely used for coloring 
oils and soaps, and is to some extent used also for preserves. 
There is really no substitute for chlorophyll as a fat dye, and BO 
aniline dye has Iwcn able to displace it. Besides this, its colorific 
ixnvcr is exceedingly great, it being used in some cases to color 
fats and soaps a green color, as well as to neutralize any pi** 
dominant yellow color and impart, by complementary coloring; a 
neutral and whiter color to products. Chlorophyll is contained 
in all green plant parts, from which it is obtained by extraction 
with strong alcohol, in the form of an extract, to the extent of about 
5%. This is commonly but erroneously designated commercially 
as being 100%, since dilutions of this extract with fatty subetaneee 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

4. Application of Vegetable Dyes 
These are mostly used in the form of tinctures for colorii 
foods, the tinctures being made with alcohol. For those intendei; 
for use in acid media, some acid must be added during the pre 
of extraction. All vegetable dyes are exceedingly sensitive I 
metals, which change the character of the color because they ente 
into combination with the dye, and such compounds usually 
possess a different color. Chlorophyll alone assumes on contact 
with copper a brilliant green color, whereas with iron it acquires a 
brown color. Fruit juices are always discolored by iron, partly 
because this reacts with the tannin present in most plants, 
partly because it acts on the coloring matter itself. Hence it i. 
a basic rule in pressing fruit juices that iron must form no part o 
the press. 

The method of making the so-called "paste dyes," which have 
found special application in the confectionery industry, is rather 
difficult to apply to vegetable colors, because here the interaction 
of acids and alkalies comas into question, in order to obtain pre- 
cipitates. The most suitable for the purpose, however, are the 
precipitates obtained with stannic acid, by treating a hot solution 
of stannous chloride with a slightly alkaline solution of the color- 
ing matter. According to the concentration of the dye solution 
and the degree of heat employed, there may be obtained, partic- 
ularly with buckthorn berries, magnificent yellow to deep-red 
precipitates which are fully resistant to acids. By complementary 
coloring with indigo a green color is obtained, while with cochineal 
a red color is obtained. The vegetable-stannic acid dyes are 
marketed under the name "Breton Dyes, " and are used for color- 
ing confectionery where tar dyes arc not permitted. 

5. Aniline, or Tar, Dtes 

The use of these is permissible only as the laws allow. These 
dyes are forbidden as a matter of principle for coloring fruit 
juices, wines and similar preparations, but they are allowed for 
other fruit products, such as jellies and marmalades, but natu- 
rally only when declared on the labels. In most cases the aniline 
dyes require no declaration of their presence in liqueurs or effer- 
vescent lemonades, nor in confectionery. Most of the aniline 
dyes usually used are mixed colors made from comparatively few 



COLORING MATTERS 361 

basic dyes; they may also be dilutions of very concentrated basic 
colore, the mixtures being made with the aid of milk sugar, ordi- 
nary sugar, starch, dextrin, table salt or anhydrous sodium sul- 
phate. The salt mixtures are the least harmful, while starch and 
dextrin partially impair their solubility. Some of the tar dyes 
have naturally an unpleasant odor, while others again decompose 
in the presence of certain substances, particularly acids, which 
decompose the alkali compounds of these dyes, whereby the very 
bitter picric acid which serves as a constituent is liberated. Hence 
it happens that the yellow colors in particular often have a de- 
cided bitter taste in acid solutions, and care must therefore be 
exercised in regard to this. The tar dyes are usually used in the 
form of a solution of 1 part in 20 parts of boiling water. After 
cooling, the liquid is filtered. In order to render the solution 
stable it may be preserved, best with the aid of alcohol. A 
stronger solution is not advisable because the full coloring power 
of the dyes is not then completely utilized. 

The so-called inspissated dyes used particularly in the confec- 
tionery industry constitute another form of application. These 
are usually prepared by dissolving 5 parts of the dye in 10 parts of 
hot water, then adding 15 parts of glucose or starch sugar, and 
boiling down to 20 parts. The dye is then obtained in the form 
of a viscid liquid. 

For confectionery there is very often employed the alumina 
dyes, in the form of the so-called paste dyes. For making these 
the greater number of the aniline dyes are adapted, where these 
are alkali-fast. Only the dyes of the eosine group cannot be used. 
With the other dyes experience alone shows which of them affords 
the most brilliant colors. Besides, it makes a decided difference 
whether the precipitation of the several colors is effected in the 
cold or when hot. The principle governing the manufacture of 
the paste dyes is based upon the precipitation of aluminum sul- 
phate by sodium carbonate, when carbon dioxide is evolved, and 
aluminum hydroxide precipitated as a white powder. When, 
however, the precipitation is effected in the presence of a dye, 
which, according to its character is dissolved either in the sodium 
carbonate solution or in that of the aluminum sulphate, the 
aluminum hydroxide as it precipitates carries down with it me- 
chanically the dye. The paste dyes contain practically about 
30% of aluminum hydroxide, which with the balance of 70% 



362 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

water forms a pasty mass. The method of manufacture is to 
dissolve 165 parts by weight of sodium carbonate in five times the 
quantity of water, and to add a cold solution of 130 parts by weight 
of aluminum sulphate in three times its quantity of water, after 
having dissolved the selected dye in either one of the two solutions. 
The reaction to a certain extent yields a neutral liquid, sodium 
sulphate being formed at the same time. The liquid is decanted 
from the precipitate, and the latter is then washed by stirring 
frequently with fresh water and decanting, until the liquid drain- 
ing off is no longer colored and contains no sodium sulphate in 
solution, which may be ascertained by testing for sulphuric acid, 
using barium chloride. The mass is then allowed to drain, when 
there is obtained as a result about 100 parts by weight of paste 
dye. For this quantity about 5 parts by weight of dye are re- 
quired, so that the paste dye contains about 5% dye. 

Oil-soluble dyes are chiefly used for coloring wax, fats, oils, etc. 
They are made fat-soluble by a special method, and must be 
dissolved only with the aid of a very gentle heat, because they 
already decompose at the melting-points of the consistent fats. 
Wherever possible, alkannin, chlorophyll or annatto should be 
used, as these stand higher temperatures. Where it is a question 
of testing the fat-soluble vegetable dyes for the presence of ad- 
mixed tar dyes, turpentine oil is used as a solvent, as this immedi- 
ately decomposes the tar dye. 

For coloring lacquers, such as, for instance, marchpane lacquer, 
or zapon lacquer for incandescent bulbs, the alcohol-soluble tar 
dyes are employed. 

6. Bleaching and Decolorizing 

The decolorization of liquids is usually effected by means of 
charcoal, which possesses the power to absorb dyes from their 
solutions. Unfortunately, however, with aromatic liquids this 
action is exerted at the same time at the expense of the flavor, as 
the flavoring is to some extent also removed. In the removal of 
an adventitious color, as, for instance, the yellow color developed 
in alcohols on storage, it is usually sufficient to filter the liquid 
through charcoal. Intensive yellow and brown plant dyes, as 
well as caramel, cannot be so easily removed by charcoal. Another 
means of removing such intensive dyes, however, consists in the 



COLORING MATTERS 363 

precipitation with milk. The coagulating albumin or casein 
mechanically carries down with it the dye. 

Bleaching, as such, comes into question only in the case of 
casks which had previously contained a colored liquid, but which 
it is desired to use for lighter-colored liquids. For this purpose, 
the method of bleaching consists in rinsing the casks with a 0.5% 
solution of potassium permanganate, whereby the wood is first 
stained dark brown; the casks are then rinsed with diluted hydro- 
chloric acid, whereby the permanganate is reduced, and a thor- 
ough bleaching effected. A similar process consists in rinsing the 
casks with a concentrated solution of potassium dichromate fol- 
lowed by treatment with diluted sulphuric acid, whereby reduc- 
tion is also effected. 






:? 



.1 

* 



! i 



PART VIII 

COSMETIC ESSENCES 

A. Perfumery 

I. MANUFACTURE OF FLOWER EXTRACTS 

Enfleurage, and Flower Pomades. 
Infusion and Extraction. 
Extract Manufacture. 

1. Trade forms of Triple Extracts 



H. BASIC PERFUMERY ESSENCES 



(a) Tinctures 




(b) Resinous Extracts 


2. Ambergris. 


8. 


Benzoin. 


3. Cantharides. 


9. 


Peru Balsam. 


4. Castor. 


10. 


Tolu Balsam. 


5. Orris. 


11. 


Liquid Styrax. 


6. Musk. 






7. Calisaya. 




(c) Solutions 




12. 


Cumarin. 




13. 


Heliotropin. 




14. 


Artificial Musk. 




15. 


Vanillin. 


m. EXTRACT COMPOSITIONS 


(HANDKERCHIEF PERFU1 


16. Ambre Royal. 


31. 


Honeysuckle. 


17. Floral Bouquet. 


32. 


Hovenia. 


18. Buckingham Flowers. 


33. 


Huntsman's Nosegay. 


19. Chypre. 


34. 


Hyacinth. 


20. Russian Leather. 


35. 


Jasmine. 


21. Cyclamen. 


36. 


Indian Bouquet 


22. Ess Bouquet. 


37. 


Jockey Club. 


23. Ess Bouquet, London Style. 


38. 


Jonquille. 


24. Frangipanni. 


39. 


Ki-Loe du Japan. 


25. Gaultheria. 


40. 


Kiss-Me-Quick. 


26. Geisha. 


41. 


lilac, I. 


27. Gilliflower (GiroflSe). 


42. 


" II. 


28. Glycines. 


43. 


" Turc. 


29. Guard Bouquet. 


44. 


lily. 


30. Heliotrope. 


45. 


Linden Flowers. 



3A& 



46. 


Magnolia. 


70. 


Rose. 


47. 


lily of the Valley, I. 


71. 


" Eglantine. 


48. 


" II. 


72. 


" Marechal Niel. 


49. 


" III. 


73. 


" Moss. 


60. 


Millefleurs. 


74. 


11 White. 


51. 


Mimosa. 


75. 


Royal Horse Guard Bouquet. 


52. 


Mousseline. 


76. 


Royal Nosegay. 


53. 


Musk. 


77. 


Spring Flower. 


54. 


Myrtc. 


78. 


Spring Nosegay. 


55. 


Narcisse. 


79. 


Stephanotis. 


56. 


Navy's Nosegay. 


80. 


Sweet Pea. 


57. 


New-mown Hay. 


81. 


Trefle. 


58. 


Orange Flower, I. 


82. 


Tulip. 


59. 


II. 


83. 


Verbena, I. 


60. 


Opoponax. 


84. 


" II. 


61. 


Orchid6c. 


85. 


Vine Flower. 


62. 


Patchouly. 


86. 


Violet Parme. 


63. 


Peau d'Espagne. 


87. 


" Riviera. 


64. 


Peony. 


88. 


" Wood. 


65. 


Pinks. 


89. 


" Artificial. 


66. 


Queen of the Night. 


90. 


Volkmeria. 


67. 


Queen Victoria Bouquet. 


91. 


West End Bouquet. 


68. 


Reseda. 


92. 


Yacht Club. 


69. 


Rondeletia. 


93. 


Ylang-Ylang. 



94. Court Water. 

95. Eau de Cologne, I. 

96. " " " II. 

97. Lilac. 



IV. AROMATIC WATERS 

Eau de Cologne 

98. Lily of the Valley. 

99. Rose. 

100. Violet. 

101. Hungarian Water. 

V. TOILET WATERS 



102. Cananga Water. 

103. Florida 

104. Lavender 

105. " " Double. 

106. Lavender Ambree. 

107. Lisboa Water. 



n 



(i 



108. Portugal Water. 

109. Toilet " Lilac. 

110. " " Lily of the Valley. 

111. " " Rose. 

112. " " Violet. 

113. Verbena. 



VI. TOILET VINEGARS 



114. Toilet Vinegar. 

115. " " Four-Thieves. 



116. Toilet Vinegar Rose. 

117. " " Violet. 



Vn. DRY PERFUMES 

(a) Tablet Perfumes 

118. Base Mass for Violet. 

119. " " " Other Odors. 
120. Heliotrope. 



121. Lilac. 

122. Lily of the Valley. 

123. Violet. 



(6) Sachets 

124. Sachet Base, 126. Lilac. 

125. Heliotrope. 127. Rose. 

128. Violet. 

(c) Peau d'Espagne 

129. Essence for Peau d'Espagne. 

(d) Smelling Salts 

130. Lavender Salt. 131. Smelling Salts. 

VIE. FUMIGANTS 
(a) For Fumigation (6) Room Sprays 

132. Fumigating Essence. - 135. Eucalyptus. 

133. " Vinegar. 136. Pine Needle. 

134. " Paper. 

B. Cosmetic Essences 

L CARE OF THE MOUTH 

(a) Mouthwashes 

137. Anatherin. 140. Eucalyptus. 

138. Quinosol. 141. Salol. 

139. EaudeBotot. 142. Thymol. 



143. Pastilles (cachous). 



(b) Cachous 



H. CARE OF THE TEETH 

(a) Toothpastes (b) Tooth Powders 

144. Base. 147. Base. 

145. Eucalyptus. 148. Eucalyptus. 

146. Peppermint. 149. Peppermint. 

(c) Toothsoap Cream 

150. Perfume for Tooth Soaps. 

m. CARE OF THE NAILS 

151. Perfume for Nail Powder. 

IV. CARE OF THE SKIN 

(a) Skin Creams (b) Powders 

152. Glycerin Cream. 156. Fat Powder. 

153. Lanolin " 157. Rice Powder. 

154. Toilet 

155. Vaselin " 

V. CARE OF THE HAIR 

(a) Hair Oils 

158. Hair Oil Perfume, I. 161. Burdock Hair Oil. 

159. " " " II. 162. Flower " " 

160. Arnica Hair Oil. 163. Macassar Oil. 



164. Pomade Perfume. 

165. Apple Pomade. 

166. China 



<< 



171. Base. 



173. Base. 



175. Base. 



(6) Pomades 

167. Flower Pomade. 

168. Ice Pomade. 

169. Marrow Pomade. 
170. Strawberry Pomade. 

(c) Stick Pomades (Cosmetiques) 

172. Perfume. 

(d) Hair Cream 

174. Perfume. 

(e) Bandoline 

176. Perfume. 



177. Bay Rum. 

178. Birch Hair Wash. 

179. Eau de Quinine. 

180. Florida Hair Wash. 

181. Honey Water. 



(/) Hair Washes 

182. Ice Hair Wash. 

183. Naphthol Water. 

184. Philodermin Hair Wash. 

185. Shampoo Wash. 

186. Dandruff Hair Wash. 
187. Violet Hair Wash. 



188. Base, Liquid. 

189. Base, Crystalline. 

190. Perfume. 



195. Base. 



VI. CARE OF THE BEARD 

(a) Brillianlines 

191. Lilac. 

192. Lily of the Valley. 

193. Rose. 
194. Violet. 

(6) Mustache or Beard Fixative 
196. Perfume. 



C. Soap Perfumes 

I. 197-202. Household Soap Perfumes. 

H. ORDINARY SOAPS 



203. 


Bitter Almond. 


206. Violet. 


204. 


Honey. 


207. Windsor, Brown. 


205. 


Rose. 


208. " White. 
HI. TOILET SOAPS 


209. 


General Perfume. 


216. Chocolate. 


210. 


t< a 


217. Eau de Cologne. 


211. 


Acacia " 


218. Eucalyptus. 


212. 


Alpine Flowers. 


219. Guimauve. 


213. 


Bitter Almonds. 


220. Flower. 


214. 


Bouquet. 


221. Heliotrope. 


215. 


Almond Bran. 


222. Herbs. 



223. Hyacinth. 

224. Lavender. 

225. Lilac. 

226. lily Milk. 

227. Linden Flowers. 

228. lily of the Valley. 

229. Milk. 

230. Millefleurs. 

231. Musk. 

232. New Mown Hay. 



243. Almond Flowers. 

244. Bitter Almonds. 

245. Cananga. 

246. Chypre. 

247. Eau de Cologne. 

248. Ess Bouquet. 

249. Florida Water. 

250. Frangipanni. 

251. Heliotrope. 

252. Honey. 

253. Indian Flowers. 

254. Jockey Club. 

255. Lavender. 

256. Lettuce. 

257. lilac. 



233. Patchouly. 

234. Peach Flowers. 

235. Pinks. 

236. Reseda. 

237. Rose. 

238. " White. 

239. Strawberry. 

240. Vanilla. 

241. Violet. 

242. Ylang-Ylang. 



IV. BULLED SOAPS 



258. lily Milk. 

259. lily of the Valley. 

260. Millefleur. 

261. Musk. 

262. New Mown Hay. 

263. Peau d'Espagne. 

264. Pinks. 

265. Rose. 

266. Rose, Tea. 

267. " White. 

268. Sweet Pea. 

269. Trefle. 

270. Violet. 

271. " Nizza. 

272. Ylang-Ylang. 



V. TRANSPARENT SOAPS 



273-275. Glycerin Soaps. 

276. Heliotrope. 

277. Lily of the Valley. 



282. Glycerin Soap. 



278. New Mown Hay. 

279. Reseda. 

280. Rose. 
281. Violet. 

VI. LIQUID SOAPS 

283. Toilet Soap.* 



VH. SHAVING SOAPS 

284. Shaving Soap. 

285. " Cream, Rose. 

286. " " Violet. 



Vm. SKIN CREAMS 

287. Lanolin. 

288. Lanolin Cold Cream. 

289. Vaselin. 

IX. MEDICATED SOAPS 



290. Borax Soap. 

291. Pine Needle Soap. 

292. Pumice Soap. 



293. Salicylated Soap. 

294. Tannin Soap. 



369 



.1 



4 



i* 



It 



T 1 



■ ■3 
M 

I 

■4 

.i 

l : 2 



li 

■1 



PART VIII 

COSMETIC ESSENCES 

A. Perfumery 

I. MANUFACTURE OF FLOWER EXTRACTS 

The floral odors are obtained in their original form from the 
fresh flowers, but as they are usually very volatile in character, 
some fixative substances are added to them to render them more 
permanent. In making these odors one is of course restricted to 
the seasons when the flowers are in bloom. The delicacy of the 
perfumes forbid the use of distillation methods, and they can be 
obtained only by extraction methods. The manufacture is one 
restricted exclusively to a large scale, and can here be described 
only briefly. 

Enfleurage, and Flower Pomades 

The fresh flowers are worked by the enfleurage method in such 
a way as to transfer their perfume to a very fine, odorless lard. 
For this purpose the fat is spread in very thin layers on frames 
which may be piled on one another, and which permits inserting 
alternately between them wire frames charged with the fresh 
flowers, whereby the thin fat layer becomes charged with the 
floral perfume. The layers of flowers are renewed repeatedly, 
and until the fat is thoroughly charged with the perfume. When 
this is effected, there is obtained the so-called true flower pomade. 
This method yields decidedly finer results than those afforded by 
the older method in which the flowers were directly exhausted 
with the just-liquefied fat, the latter then expressed off, and re- 
peatedly used with fresh batches of flowers till fully charged. 
Flower pomades so made are usually colored by the flowers. 

In certain cases, particularly for floral hair oils, pure oil is also 
used, the fresh batches of flowers being treated with warm oil, 
as already described. Such preparations form the basis of the 

371 



372 MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

better kinds of hair oils, whereas the pomades serve for the manu- 
facture of perfume extracts, by transferring their perfumes to 
alcohol. 

Infusion and Extraction 

In this the fresh flowers are usually exhausted with pure pe- 
troleum ether, although carbon disulphidc is also used, the process 
l>eing carried out in the cold. After extraction, the solvent is 
evaporated off, when there remains a true flower extract of oily 
consistency, containing the floral perfume in all its purity. This 
preparation (Essence concentr^e), too, is washed with alcohol to 
obtain extracts. 

Extract Manufacture 

I. TRADE FORMS OF TRIPLE EXTRACTS 

For making these, the flower pomades described above are 
washed with strong alcohol. This is done by thoroughly stirring 
the fat with an equal weight of alcohol, using a mechanically- 
driven stirrer. By this treatment the alcohol washes out the 
perfume and dissolves it. The alcoholic solution is then drawn 
off, and subjected to a chilling process in order to separate from 
it the fat, a certain quantity of which it also dissolves out. The 
residual pomade is once again treated in similar manner with 
alcohol, whereby a second, but less powerfully odorous, extract is 
obtained, and which is utilized either as a second-quality extract, 
or as a solvent for fresh {>ortions of pomade; the pomade remain- 
ing after the treatment with alcohol, and which still always has 
a decided odor, is used as a base for fine soaps. We have thus 
at hand the means for preparing extracts of any desired concen- 
tration. For the trade, these extracts are usually diluted accord- 
ing to the price they are to bring. In the following formulas the 
so-called triple extracts will, as a rule, be discussed, these repre- 
senting the products obtained by the first washing of the pomades. 

II. BASIC PERFUMERY ESSENCES 

It is assumed in advance, that in all manipulations requiring 
the use of alcohol, only the finest alcohol exclusively, of high 
strength, must be used, in order that the products may always be 
mixod without any turbidity. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 373 

(a) Tinctures 

The aromatic drugs employed are exhausted with alcohol, each 
in the special degree of concentration mentioned. 

2. Ambergris Tincture 4 dr. per lb. 

3. Cantharides Tincture 1J oz. " (only for hair washes). 

4. Castor Tincture J dr. 

5. Orris Root Tincture 5 oz. 

6. Musk Tincture 10 dr. 

7. Calisaya Tincture 3 oz. 

Wherever any other tincture is ordered, it is to be made in the 
strength of 3 oz. per pound. 

(6) Resinous Extracts 

8. Benzoin 5 oz. per lb. 

9. Peru Balsam 3i oz. " 

10. Tolu Balsam 5 oz. " 

11. Liquid Styrax 4 oz. " 

(c) Solutions 

Under this we understand solutions of artificial odorous sub- 
stances in strong alcohol, all solutions containing 7 dr. per pound. 

12. Cumarin. 14. Artificial Musk. 

13. Helibtropin. 15. Vanillin. 

Note. — Where musk is ordered in these formulas, this is always to be 
understood as the artificial musk; and for civet, the artificial zibelhin is like- 
wise to be used in the given case, in 1 per cent solution. 

m. EXTRACT COMPOSITIONS (HANDKERCHIEF PERFUMES) 

In the following formulas the triple extracts to be employed are 
simply designated by the names of the flowers which they repre- 
sent. 

16. Ambre Royal Jasmine 4 oz. 

Rose 4 " 



Musk | dr. 

PatchoulyOil f 

Resedageranlol i 

Vanillin 1J 

Ambergris 1} 

Benzyl Acetate 6i 

Styrax Solution 9J 

Benzoin Solution 12 



1 lb. 

17. Floral Bouquet 

Orange Oil 3idr. 

Lemon Oil 3J " 

Bergamot Oil 4 " 

Benzoin Solution 5 " 

Rose 4 oz. 

Ambergris Tincture 2 oz. Tuberose 5 " 



Vanillin Solution 2 

Musk Solution 2 



Violet 5 " 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



18. Buckingham Flowers 

Lavender Oil J dr. 

NeroliOil 1 " 

Rose Oil j " 

Orris Root Tincture lit " 

Ambergris Tincture 12 " 

Orange Flower 31 oi. 

Jasmine 3] " 

Cassie 3J " 

Rose 4| " 

1 lb. 
19. Cbypke 

Calamus Oil J dr. 



Patchouly Oil 

Sandal Oil 

Cumarin 

Vanillin 

Bergamot Oil 

Zibcthin(10%soluti< 

Castor Tincture 

Musk Tincture 

Cassie 

Jasmine 4 

Rose 

Tuberose 



20. Russian' Leather 
Zibcthin {10% solution).. . 

Clove Oil 

Birch Tar Oil 

Bergamot Oil 

Sandal Oil 

Styrax Solution 

Benzoin Solution 

Orris Tincture 1 

Orange Flower 

Vanillin Tincture 

21. Cyclamen 

Vanillin Tincture 

Musk Tinrlure 

Benzoin Tincture. 

Tcrpincol 

Tuberose 



)dr. 
U " 
II » 

41 " 



Violet 11 ob. 

Orange Flower 2} " 

Jasmine 4 " 

Rose 7 " 

1 lb. 
22. Ebb Bouquet 

Bentaldehyde A dr. 

RoseOil , « 

Lavender Oil -fa " 

Geranium Oil \ " 

Castor Tincture. | " 

V ii hi 1 1 i ei Tincture 1 " 

Muak Tincture. 1) " 

Bergamot Oil 1) " 

Cumarin Tincture 3 " 

Tuberose 1 oa. 

Violet 1J •• 

Reseda lj " 

Rose 4 " 

Jasmine 6} " 

23. Ebb Bouquet, London 
Stele 

Styrax Solution } dr. 

Ambergris Tincture J " 

Lemon Oil 51 " 

Orris Tincture 2| os. 

Jasmine 4 " 

Reseda 4 " 

Violet 5_ " 

1 lb. 
Note: The term " 

the abbreviated form of 

Bouquet." 

24. Franoipanki 

Vetiver Oil 1 

Bergamot Oil J 

Civet Tincture 11 

Musk Tincture 7 

\anilliii Tincture 7 

Hdiotropin Tincture 10 

Cumarin Tincture 14 

Rose 21 

Orange Flower 5 

Jasmine 6 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



375 



25. Gaultheria (Wintergrben) 

VetiverOil 2idr. 

Lavender Oil 7* " 

Wintergreen Oil 14 " 

Ambergris Tincture li oz. 

Orange Flower 3 " 

Cassie 3 " 

Rose 7 " 

1 lb. 

26. Geisha 

Vanillin Tincture 1 dr. 

Cumarin Tincture J " 

Mandarin Oil 1 " 

Bergamot Oil 2 " 

Civet Tincture 12 " 

Orris Tincture 2| oz. 

Jasmine 6 " 

Rose 6j " 

1 lb. 

27. GlROFLEE 

Benzaldehyde J dr. 

Vanillin 2\ oz. 

Orris Tincture 2\ " 

Cassie 2\ " 

Orange Flower 4 " 

Rose 4j " 

1 lb. 

28. Glycinea 

Methyl Anthranilate J dr. 

Rose Oil li " 

Linalyl Acetate 3 " 

Benzyl Acetate 3 " 

Tolu Tincture 6 " 

Musk Tincture 10 " 

Cassie 3§ oz. 

Jasmine 5 " 

Rose 6 " 

1 lb. 

29. Guard Bouquet 

Bergamot Oil 1 dr. 

Clove Oil § " 

Geranium Oil l\ " 

Musk Tincture 14 " 

Vanillin Tincture 2 oz. 

Orange Flower 2\ " 



Orris Tincture 3J oz. 

Rose 7 " 

1 lb. 

30. Heliotrope 

Ylang-Ylang Oil i dr. 

Benzyl Acetate li " 

Terpineol. 5 " 

Heliotropin 5J " 

Musk Tincture 12 " 

Vanillin Tincture 12 " 

Peru Balsam Tincture. ... 12 " 

Rose 3 oz. 

Tuberose 3 " 

Jasmine 7 ^_ 

1 lb. 

31. Honeysuckle 

Methyl Anthranilate l\ dr. 

Benzaldehyde 1J " 

Geranyl Formate 2J " 

VaniUin Tincture 2J " 

Castor Tincture 3J " 

Orris Oil, Concrete 5 " 

Benzoin Tincture 2 oz. 

Rose 6 " 

Jonquil 7 ^_ 

1 lb. 

32. Hovenia (Japanese) 

Clove OU idr. 

NeroliOil i " 

Rose Oil 1 " 

LimeOU 6J " 

Rosemary Oil 3 oz. 

Alcohol \2\ " 

1 lb. 

33. Huntsman's Nosegay 

Musk Tincture idr. 

Citronella Oil 1" 

Cassie 1 oz. 15 " 

Orange OU 2 " 

Tonka Bean Tinc- 
ture 4 " 

Rose 8 " 

1 11 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



34. Htacisth 

Ylang-Ylang OU ]dr. 

Rose Oil J " 

Hdiotropin 11 " 

BergamotOil 1} " 

Hyacinthin 2J " 

Terpineol 3 " 

Musk Tincture 6 " 

Clove Tincture »1 " 

Orria Tincture 11 " 

Tuberose 1 j " 

Jasmine 5 " 

Alcohol M " 

1 lb. 

35. Jasmine 

LinslocOil Idr. 

Bergamot Oil } " 

Jasmine Oil i " 

Jasmine 7] os. 

Alcohol 8 " 

1 lb. 

36. Indian Bouquet 

Orris Oil Concrete -fa dr. 

PatchoulyOil A " 

AmbretteOil I " 

Zibethin (10% solution).. | " 

Musk J " 

Ionone } " 

Orris Tincture 10 " 

Orange Flower 12 " 

Jasmine 14j oz. 

1 lb. 

37. Jockey Club 

Ambrcttc Oil 1 dr. 

CassicOil 1} " 

Rose Oil 3} " 

Linalyl Acetate 6 " 

Tolu Tincture 12 '* 

Musk Tincture 2 os. 

Orris Tincture 21 " 

Jasmine 4) " 

Rose 5 " 



38. Jonquhj.* 

Vanillin 12 dr. 

Orange Flower 31 o*. 

Jasmine ol " 

Tuberose 8 " 

1 lb. 

39. Ki-Lob do J apon 

YlsAg-Ylsng Oil i dr. 

Orris Oil, 



Bensvl Acetate 

Linalyl Acetate 

Terpineol 1 

Guaiacol I 

Reseda 2 oa.ll 

Rose 6 " 



40. Kiss-Me-Qdicx 

PatchoulyOil 

Zibethin (10% solution). . . 

Rose Oil 

Rhodium Oil 

Linalyl Acetate. . . 
Musk Tincture. . . 
Castor Tincture — 
Bentoin Tincture. . 

Tuberose 

Violet 

Rose 

Jonquil 



A dr- 

A" 

t " 



1 

41. Lilac, I 

Vanillin ) 

Hyacinthin J 

Cumarin 1 

Heliotropin 1 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 11 

Terpineol 61 

Musk Tincture 7 

Rose 3 os. 

Tuberose 

Jasmine 

re 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



377 



42. Lilac, II 

Bensaldehyde J dr. 

Civet Tincture 3i " 

Orange Flower 5J or.. 

Tuberose 10 " 

1 lb 

43. Lilac, Turkish 

Rose Oil 1 dr. 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 5 " 

Bensoin Tincture 8 " 

Terpineol 10 " 

Cumarin 12 " 

Orange Flower 1| os. 

Tuberoae 2 " 

Jonquil 2 " 

Rose 2 " 

Jasmine 6 " 

TIE 
44. Lilt 

Bensaldehyde I dr. 

Jasmine 15} " 

Rose ljoa. 

Orange Flower 2 os. 

Vanillin Solution 2} " 

Cassie 3 " 

Tuberose 6 " 

1 lb. 
45. Linden Flowehs 

Pntohouly Oil Adr. 

Linalyl Acetate ft" 

Gcranyl Formate IJ " 

Benzyl Acetate 1 j '* 

Linden Flower Oil 2 " 

Guaiftcol 2J " 

Musk Tincture 2) " 

Castor Tincture 5 " 

Cumarin Solution 9 " 

Rose 12 " 

Tuberoee 2j oa. 

Jasmine 3 " 

Cassie 8 " 

1 lb. 

46. Magnolia 

Lemon Oil 1 dr. 

Bensaldehyde i " 



Tuberose. 1 OS. IS dr. 

Violet 2 " 

Orange Flower 4 " 

Rose 8 " 

1 lb. 

47. Lily or the Valley, I 

Cumarin t dr.. 

Ylang-Ylang Oil j " 

Muguet 1 " 

Musk Tincture IJ " 

Terpineol 21 " 

Linalool 5 " 

Orange Flower 13 " 

Jasmine 3 oz. 

Rose 4 " 

Lily of the Valley 7j " 

1 lb. 

48. Lily of the Valley, II 

Bensaldehyde J dr. 

Cassie 21oa. 

Jasmine 2J " 

Orange Flower 3 " 

Rose 3) " 

Vanillin Tincture 4 " 

1 lb. 
49. Lily of the Valley, III 

Orris Oil Concrete \ dr. 

Castor Tincture 7] " 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 1} os. 

Jasmine 14 " 

TW. 

50. MlLLEFLEOKS 

Lemon Oil J dr. 

Orange Oil 1 " 

Lavender Oil 1 " 

Geranium Oil 1 " 

VetiverOil 31 " 

CedarOil ft " 

Civet Tincture 7 " 

Musk Tincture 12 " 

Vanillin Tincture 1J os. 

Orange Flower 2) " 

Jasmine 2i| " 

Cassie 3 j " 

Violet 4 " 

1 lb. 



378 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



51. Mimosa 

Neroli Oil .• 4 dr. 

Clove Oil 4 

Ambrette Oil 5 

Geranium Oil 5 

Guaiacol 6 

Cassie 8 

Jonquil 3 

Tuberose 5 

Rose 6 

lib. 



it 

it 
n 
u 

oz. 



55. NARCI88B 

Rose Oil Jdr 

Heliotropin | " 

Benzyl Acetate 2\ " 

Vanillin Tincture 2| " 

Styrax Solution 3} 

Jonquil 12) 

Orange Flower 3 oi. 

Tuberose 5 " 

Rose 6 " 

1 lb. 



tt 



« 



52. Mouse line 




Musk 


5 dr. 


Rose Oil 


5 " 


Neroli Oil 


, 5 " 


Sandal Oil 


. 5 " 


Bergamot Oil , 


. 5 " 


Vanillin 


. 7 " 


Rose , 


3 oz. 


Jasmine , 


. 5 " 


Orange Flower , 


. 6 " 




1 lb. 


53. Musk . 




Bergamot Oil , 


. 4 dr. 


Musk 


. 5 " 


Geranium Oil , 


. 7 " 


Civet Tincture , 


. 8 " 


Cassie 


. 8 " 




1J oz. 




. 1* " 


Jasmine 


. 3 " 


Rose 


. 8 " 




1 lb. 


54. Myrte 






. 12 dr. 



Orange Flower 3 oz. 

Tuberose 3 " 

Vanillin Solution 3i 

Rose 6 



tt 



n 



t€ 



tt 



56. Navy's Nobegay 

VetiverOil J dr. 

Citronella Oil } " 

Benzaldehyde 1 

Mace Oil 1 

Lemon Oil 2i " 

Patchouly 1| ob. 

Orange Flower 4 " 

Rose 4i " 

Alcohol 5) " 

I lb. 



57. New Mown Hat 

Rose 1) oz 

Jasmine 2} 

Orange Flower 2J 

Tuberose 3} 

Tonka Bean Tincture 6 



t* 



tt 



a 



tt 



1 lb. 



1 ib. 



58. Orange Flower, I 

Bergamot Oil 2 dr. 

Musk Tincture 2} " 

Neroli Oil 3J « 

Orange Flower Water 8 " 

Jasmine 2 os. 

Orange Flower 13 ^_ 

1 lb. 

59. Orange Flower, II 

Neroli Oil 2 dr. 

Alcohol lib. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



60. Opoponax 

Cinnamon Oil | 

Ionone J 

Rose Oil } 

Opoponax Resin 1} 

Musk Tincture 3J 

Benzoin Tincture 1| 

Rose 2 

Orange Flower 2ft 

Jasmine 2J 

Orris Tincture 3 

Alcohol 4 



dr. 

n 

it 
u 

tt 

OZ. 

tt 

tt 

« 
tt 
tt 



1 lb. 



61. Orchidee 



Neroli Oil ^ 

Ylang-Ylang Oil ^ 

Bergamot Oil J 

Cumarin \ 

Rhodium Oil J 

Musk Tincture 1 J 

Terpineol 1} 

Benzoin Tincture 3$ 

Tuberose 2 

Jasmine 3J 

Violet 4 

Rose 6 



dr. 

n 
it 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 

oz. 

tt 
tt 
tt 



1 lb. 



62. Patchouly 

Sandal Oil 

Bergamot Oil 

Geranium Oil 

Civet Tincture 

Musk Tincture 

Patchouly Oil 

Cassie 

Jasmine 

Rose 



J dr. 

ft " 

1 " 

4 " 
4ft " 

5 " 

2 oz. 
5 " 
8 " 
1 lb. 



63. Peau d'Espagne 

BirchTarOil J^dr. 

Rose Oil | 

Linalyl Acetate | 

Ylang-Ylang Oil | 



u 



a 



Vanillin 

Lavender Oil l 

Zibethin Tincture 2ft 

Tolu Tincture 7 

Orange Flower 2 

Rose 4 

Jasmine oj 



379 

| dr. 



It 



tt 



tt 



oz. 

II 



it 



1 lb. 



64. Peony 

Methyl Anthranilate \ 

Geranium Oil lj 

Musk lj 

Terpineol 3f 

Musk Tincture 3ft 

Styrax Tincture 6 

Vanillin Tincture 1} 

Orange Flower 2 j 

Jasmine 3 

Rose 4 

Violet 4 



dr. 

<< 

it 
n 
tt 
tt 

oz. 

<< 

<< 
«« 
*t 



1 lb. 



n 



tt 



66. Pinks (Carnation) 

Vanillin Tincture 2 oz. 

Cassie 4 

Orange Flower 4 

Rose 6 " 

rib; 



66. Queen of the Night 

Ambrette Oil j 

Cinnamic Alcohol (Styrone) \ 

Ionone j 

Benzyl Acetate 3 

Benzyl Alcohol 5 

Zibethin Tincture q 

Vanillin Tincture g 

Cumarin Tincture \ 1 

Orange Flower j 1 

Orris Tincture o 

Jonquil A 

Jasmine. . . . 



dr. 

dr. 

n 

tt 
tt 

it 

oz. 
n 

n 

tt 



• • • • 1 



380 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



67. Queen Victoria Bouquet 

Lemon Oil f dr. 

Bergamot Oil f " 

Zibethin Tincture 3 " 

Orange Flower 1J oz. 

Cassie 1 J " 

Jasmine.. 1 J " 

Tuberose 3 " 

Violet 4 " 

Rose 4} " 

1 lb. 

68. Reseda (Mignonette) 

Sandal Oil J dr.. 

Orris Oil, Concrete J " 

Basil Oil J " 

Ylang-Ylang Oil i " 

Reseda Geraniol ■ J " 

Musk Tincture 3J " 

Orange Flower 7 " 

Cassie 12 " 

Jasmine 1J oz. 

Rose 3 " 

Violet 3 " 

Reseda _7 " 

ttb; 

69. RONDELETIA 

Clove Oil J dr. 

Lavender Oil } " 

Rose Oil } " 

Zibethin Tincture } " 

Bergamot Oil 1J " 

LinaloeOil 1J " 

Sandal Oil 1J " 

Geranium Oil 1J " 

Musk Tincture 3J " 

Vanillin Tincture 8 " 

Cumarin Tincture 1J oz. 

Orris Tincture 2 " 

Jasmine 2 " 

Rose 4J " 

Orange Flower 6 ^ 

1 lb. 

70. Ross 

Linaloe Oil. . 1 dr. 

GimmcOil I " 



Zibethin Tincture 3 dr. 

Tolu Tincture 5 " 

Cassie 6 " 

Jasmine 1 J os. 

Tuberose 2J " 

Rose 11 *' 

1 lb. 



71. Rose Eglantine 

Lemongrass Oil J dr. 

NeroliOU i" 

Jasmine 1 os. 15J " 

Cassie 2 " 

Orange Flower 3 " 

Rose 9 " 

1 lb. 



72. Rose, Marjchal Niel 
(Tea Robe) 

Ylang-Ylang Oil J 

Clove Oil J 

Lemon Oil } 

Sandal Oil 1 

Thyme Oil 1 

RoseOil 4 

Ambergris Tincture 7J 

Musk Tincture 8 

Orange Flower 9 

Orris Tincture 1 

Tuberose 1J 

Jasmine 1} 

Rose 10_ 

1 



dr. 

«< 

M 
M 
« 
M 
«< 
M 
« 

OS. 

(I 

M 
« 



lb. 



73. Rose, Moss 

Heliotropin J dr. 

Bergamot Oil J " 

RoseOil 1 " 

Zibethin Tincture 1 " 

Benzoin Tincture 5 M 

Rose 15joi. 

1 lb. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



381 



74. Rosi, White 

Patchouly Oil 1 dr. 

Bergamot Oil 1 " 

Geranium Oil \ " 

Linaloe Oil 1 " 

Sandal Oil } " 

Bensoin Tincture 101 " 

Tuberose 11 " 

Cassie 1 oa. 

Rose I3j " 

1 lb. 
76. Royal Hohheouard Bouquet 

Pimenta Oil 1 dr. 

Orris Tincture Ill " 

Musk Tincture 12 " 

Vanillin Tincture 1 os. 

OrangeFlower 1J " 

Violet 12 " 

Tib". 

76. Royal Noseoat 

VetiverOil 1 dr. 

Bergamot Oil 31 " 

Clove Oil 8 " 

Musk Tincture 1 ox. 

Ambergris Tincture 1 " 

Vanillin Tincture 1 " 

Rose 4 " 

Violet 5 " 

1 lb. 

77. Sphinq Floweh 

Orris Oil, Concrete 1 dr. 

linalyl Acetate j " 

Coriander Oil j " 

YUng-Ylang Oil 2( " 

Basil Oil 2j " 

CloveOil 21 " 

Zibethin Tincture 7 " 

Musk Tincture 8 " 

Vanillin Tincture 8 " 

Cassie Hoi. 

Violet 2 " 

Orange 3 " 

Jasmine. ................ 3 " 

Rose 41 " 

1 lb. 



78. Spring Nosegay 

Musk Tincture 10 dr 

Ambergris Tincture 14 " 

Cassie 21 o». 

Rose 21 " 

Jasmine 2| " 

Tuberose 2J " 

Orange 4j " 

1 lb. 

79. Stephanotm 

Lemon Oil | dr. 

RoseOd 1 " 

Ylang-Yltuig Oil | " 

Linalyl Acetate 1| " 

Aliiijk Tincture 9 " 

Cassie 1}oi. 

Orris Tincture 31 " 

Rose 41 " 

Jasmine fl " 

i ii>; 

80. Sweet Pea 

Cumarin Tincture 1 dr. 

Musk 1 " 

Ionone 1 " 

GuaiacOil 1 " 

Vanillin Tincture 11" 

Hyacinthin 1| " 

Heliotropin 4 " 

Terpincol 10 " 

Rose lji«. 

Orange Flower 2 " 

Jasmine 1 1 " 

"1 lb. 

81. TnBfLE (Trefoil) 

Cumarin 1 dr. 

Methyl Salicylate 1 " 

Ylang-Ylang Oil ! " 

Rose Oil } " 

MuskTincture 21 " 

Benzoin Tincture 5 " 

Rose 21 oi. 

Jonquil 6 " 

Tuberoae 7 " 



382 MANUAL FOR THE 

82. Tcup 

Benzaldehyde ,", dr. 

NeroliOil -fa " 

Cassie Ill " 

Rose 2J m. 

Jasmine 3 " 

Tuberose 4 " 

Orris Tincture 6 " 



83. Verbena, I (Vebveine) 

Lemon Oil 1 dr. 

Citronella Oil 4J " 

Amyl Acetate 5 " 

Lime Oil 6 " 

Rose 2 oz. 

Orange Flower 2 " 

Tuberose 21 " 

Alcohol 8j " 

1 lb. 

84. Verbena, II 

Citronella Oil i dr. 

Orange Oil i " 

Lime Oil 61 " 

Alcohol 15) oi. 

Tib! 

85. Vine Flower 

Ethyl CEnaiithate 1 dr. 



Y la ng- Viang Oil . 
Zibcthin Tincture. , 
Vanillin Tincture . . 
Cinnamic Alcohol . . 
Benzoin Tincture. . 

Rose 

Jasmine 



86. Violet, Parme 

Orris Oil, Concrete 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 

Ionone 

Guaiac Oil 

Rose 

Jasmine 

Violet 



Idr. 

1 " 
, .. 

6J " 



ESSENCE INDUSTRY 

87. Violet, Riviera 

Linalyl Acetate 1 dr. 

Benzyl Acetate 1 " 

Musk Tincture 1 " 

Ionone 2J " 

Benzoin Tincture II " 

Rose 1 oz. 

Cassie I) " 

Violet 121 " 

1 lb. 

88. Violet, Wood 

Ethyl Acetate i dr. 

Vanillin 1 " 

Orris Oil, Concrete J " 

Ionone I " 

Ylang-Ylang Oil I " 

GuaiacOil 1 " 

Musk Tincture 8 " 

Orunire Flower 13 " 

Orris Tincture 21 o*. 

Jasmine 3 " 

Violet " 

1 lb. 

89. Violet, Artificial 

Zibcthin Tincture 1 dr. 

Orris Oil, Concrete 1 " 

Musk Tincture 1 " 

Linalyl Acetate 11 " 

Ionone 1! " 

Jasmine 7 " 

Reseda 9 " 

Cassie 11 of. 

Rose 11 " 

Alcohol 2 " 

Orris Tincture Distillate 10 " 

(3 parts tincture yield 1 lb. 

2 parts distillate) 

90. VOLKMERIA 

Musk Tincture 12 dr. 

Jasmine 1J oi. 

Rose 3 " 

Tuberose 5 " 

Violet 6 " 

1 lb. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



Mi 



a 



It 



91. West End Bouquet 

Lemon Oil J dr. 

Bergamot Oil 1J 

Ambergris Tincture 7 

Musk Tincture 71 " 

Cassie 2} oz. 

Jasmine. 2J " 

Tuberose 21 " 

Violet 31 " 



Orange tf J oz. 

Jasmine U\ " 

J lb. 



Rose 



41 



n 



1 lb. 



1 dr. 



92. Yacht Club 

Sandal Oil 

Benzoic Acid, True, Sub- 
limed 2 

Cassie 13 

Vanillin Tincture 21 oz. 

Rose 3} 



n 



n 



n 



<J3. YlaxoYlanu 

Xiobe Oil 

Musk 

Benzaldehyde.. 

Cananga Oil 

Linaly] Awit&Ui J \ 

Terpirieol 1 J 

Ylang- Viang Oil J { 

Benzoin Tincture. ... '/[ 

Cassie 9 

Jonquil 'A 

Orris Tincture A\ 

Tuberose A\ 

Jasmin'* U 

J 



A 

A 
A 
A 



dr. 



<i 



n 



n 



It 



1)1. 



M 



M 



III. 



IV. AROMATIC WATERS 
This class of perfumes comprises simple solution** of volatile 
oils, being represented by Eau de Cologne as a ty|x\ In l ho 
formulas here given only the volatile oils are mentioned. Tim 
quantity of alcohol required for their dilution is in eaeh raw nil- 
culated to yield 1 lb., using the quantity of essenr** stated. In 
cases where the essences are to Ixj furnished from which to pre- 
pare the waters, the mixtures are best diluted by mixing the 
quantity required per pound of water with enough alcohol to 
make 2 oz. by weight; directions are then to be given to mix the 
2 oz. with strong alcohol to make 1 lb. of finished product. 



94. Court Water 

(i oz. per pound) 

Pineapple Ether 11 dr. 

Musk Tincture 11 ' 

Orris Oil, Concrete 11 * 

Cumarin 3 ' 

Ambergris Tincture 4 * 

Neroli Oil 41 < 

Rose Extract 51 oz. 

Bergamot Oil 91 " 

1 lb. 



95. Eau de Couxjnk, I 

(0 dr. per pound) 

Rose Oil 2 dr. 

Melissa Oil 2 " 

Neroli Oil 5 " 

Lavender Oil G " 

Geranium Oil 8 " 

Rosemary Oil 9 " 

Lime Oil 1 oz. 

Cedrat Oil 2 " 

Petitgrain Oil 2 " 

Orange Oil 2 

Lemon Oil •* 

Bergamot Oil 4 



384 



MAXUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



96. Eau de Cologne, 

(6 dr. per pound) 

Melissa Oil 

Lavender Oil 

Rosemary Oil 

Neroli Oil 

Orange Oil 

Petitgrain Oil 

Lemon Oil 

Bergainot Oil 



II 



2 dr. 

6 " 

8 " 

1 oz. 

H " 

2 " 

4i " 
6 " 
1 lb. 



97. Eau de Cologne, Lilac 

(J oz. per pound) 

Hyacinthin , . . . 2J dr. 

Jasmin Oil, Artificial 13J " 

Benzyl Acetate 2 oz. 

Terpineol 5 " 

Eau de Cologne Oil, 1 8 " 

1 lb. 

98. Eau de Cologne, Lily op 
the Valley 

(J oz. per pound) 

Coriander Oil 1 dr. 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial. ... 11 " 
Terpineol 3J oz. 



Linalool 5 ox. 

Eau de Cologne Oil, 1 7 " 

1 lb. 

99. Eau de Cologne, Rose 

(} os. per pound) 

Rose Oil 2Jdr. 

Rose Geraniol 13* " 

Geranium Oil 1) os. 

Eau de Cologne Oil, I 13j " 

1 lb. 

100. Eau de Cologne, Violet 

(} oz. per pound) 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 5 dr. 

Ionone 1 os. 11 " 

Eau de Cologne Oil, 

1 13 " 

lib. 

101. Hungarian Water 

(6 dr. per pound) 

NiobeOil 1 dr. 

Neroli Oil 3J " 

Rose Oil, Artificial 7J " 

Melissa Oil 4 os. 

Lemon Oil 4] " 

Rose Extract 7 " 

1 lb. 



V. TOILET WATERS 

These are primarily intended to be added to the bath, or to the 
wash water. They too are prepared exclusively from volatile oils, 
and here too only the volatile oils are mentioned, and in the pro- 
lM>rtions in which they are to be diluted with strong alcohol. In 
supplying essences from which the finished preparations are to 
bo made, the quantities required for 1 lb. are to be diluted with 
strong alcohol in each case to make 2 oz. by weight; directions 
are then to be given to mix the 2 oz. with strong alcohol to make 
1 lb. of finished product. 



102. Cananoa Water 

(} oz. per pound.) 

Methyl Salicylate 2 dr. 

Citronclla Oil 

Patchouly Oil... 



Clove Oil 4 dr. 

Geranium Oil 4 oi. 

Cananga Oil 5J 

Bergamot Oil 6 



u 



u 



1 lb. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



385 



103. Florida Water 

(} 02. per pound.) 

NeroUOil 6 dr. 

Clove Oil 6 " 

Sweet Orange Oil 10 " 

Cassia Oil 10 " 

Lemon Oil 11 oz. 

Bergamot Oil 1J " 

Lavender Oil 11 " 

1 lb. 

104. Lavender Water 

(6 dr. per pound.) 

Cumarin 4 dr. 

Musk 8 " 

Geranium Oil 8 " 

Lavender Oil 14} oz. 

1 lb. 

105. Lavender Water, Double 

(} oz. per pound.) 

Orris Oil, Concrete 2 dr. 

Neroli Oil 5 " 

Geranyl Acetate 5 " 

Orange Oil 5 " 

Peru Balsam 6 " 

Clove Oil 9 " 

Benzoin Tincture 1 oz. 

Tolu Tincture 1 " 

Bergamot Oil 2 " 

Lemon Oil 2 " 

Lavender Oil 6 " 

Alcohol 2_^ 

lib. 

106. Lavender Water with Am- 
bergris (Eau de Vie de Lavende 
Ambree) 

(} oz. per pound.) 

Orris Oil, Concrete 1 dr. 

Musk 1J " 

Lemon OU 51 " 

Peru Balsam 1 oz. 

Bergamot Oil 1 " 

Styrax Solution 2 " 

Tolu Balsam Solution 2 " 

LavenderOU 2J " 



Benzoin Tincture 3 oz. 

Alcohol 4 " 

1 lb. 

107. Li8boa Water 

(} oz. per pound.) 

Rose Oil 8 dr. 

Lemon Oil 4 J oz. 

Portugal OU 7 " 

Alcohol 4 " 

1 lb. 

108. Portugal Water 

(6 dr. per pound.) 

NeroUOil 2 dr. 

Lemon Oil 10 " 

Bergamot Oil 1J oz. 

Orange Oil 14 " 

1 lb. 

109. Toilet Water, Lilac 

(1J dr. per pound.) 

Rose Oil 6 dr. 

Jasmin Oil 10 " 

Niobe Oil 1 oz. 

Cumarin 1J " 

Terpineol 121 " 

1 lb. 

110. Toilet Water, Lily of the 
Valley 

(11 dr. per pound.) 

Linalool 1 J 01. 

Jasmin Extract 3 " 

Terpineol 3J " 

Lily of the Valley Extract. 8 " 

1 lb. 

111. Toilet Water, Rome 

(li dr. per pound.) 

Rose Oil *J|o«. 

Sandal Oil 3 " 

Benzyl Acetate 4 M 

Bergamot Oil <*l " 



386 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



112. Toilet Water, Violet 

(1J dr. per pound.) 

Musk 2J dr. 

Cumarin 71 " 

Orris Tincture 10 " 

Ionone 2 oz. 

Benzyl Acetate 4 

Jasmine Extract 8} 



n 



it 



1 lb. 



113. Verbena Water 

(6 dr. per pound.) 

Clove Oil 

Geranium Oil 

Peru Balsam 

Benzoin Tincture 

Tolu Solution 

Verbena Oil 

Alcohol 



5 dr. 
11 " 

11 oz. 

2 " 
2i " 

6 " 

3 " 
1 lb. 



VI. TOILET VINEGARS 



The essences for toilet vinegars are strong concentrations, which 
are to be diluted in the proportion of l£ oz. with enough alcohol 
to make 1 lb. finished product. 



114. Toilet Vinegar 

NeroliOil 1J dr. 

Rose Oil 2} 

Vanillin Solution 8 

Lemon Oil 1 J oz. 

Bergamot Oil 11 

Acetic Acid (80%) 31 

Benzoin Tincture 9 



(i 



<i 



(i 



n 



tt 



1 lb. 



115. Four-Thieves Vinegar 

Calamus Root } oz. 

Mace } 

Nutmeg I 

Camphor 11 

Lavender Flowers 71 

Peppermint Leaves 71 

Rue Leaves 71 

Rosemary Leaves 71 

Cinnamon Bark 71 



u 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Macerate with 

Alcohol 10 lb. 

Acetic Acid (80%) 2 " 

After 8 days express off 10 lb. 
essence. 

116. Toilet Vinegar, Roes 

Musk 21 dr. 

Rose Oil 1 .os. 

Ethyl Acetate 1 " 131 dr. 

Geranium Oil 4 

Alcohol 5} 

Acetic Acid (80%) . . 3J 

.1 lb. 

117. Toilet Water, Violet 

Rose Oil 21 dr. 

Acetic Ether 91 " 

Ionone 2 os. 

Benzyl Acetate 21 

Benzoin Tincture 71 

Acetic Acid (80%) 31 



tt 



tt 



u 



a 



tt 



u 



1 lb. 



VH. DRY PERFUMES 



The concentration of an odorous substance in the form of a dry 
perfume is effected by impregnating a mass with the various odor- 
ous substances. If this is done using a pasty mass, which is 
dried out after impregnating, we can obtain the dry perfume in 
the form of a tablet perfume. The smelling salts are similarly 
made, by adding the odorous substances to volatile ammonium 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



387 



salts and keeping the mixture in bottles from which the mixture is 
inhaled. Peau d'Espagne is likewise a peculiar form of dry per- 
fume. 



(a) Tablet Perfumes 



n 



(i 



u 



(i 



118. Base Mass for Violet 

Rice Starch 2 oi. 

Magnesium Carbonate 2 

Calcium Carbonate 3} 

Orris Root Powder 5 

Glucose, Syrupy 3J 

Mix to form a paste, which then 

dry, and impregnate with the desired 

odorous mixture. 

119. Base Mass for All Other 
Odors 

Orris Root Powder } oz. 

Dextrin 1 J 

Magnesium Carbonate 1J 

Calcium Carbonate 1} 

Starch Powder 5 

Glucose, Syrupy 2 

Mix and treat as above. Note: 
The odorous mixture is added in the 
proportion of J dr. per pound of base 
mass. 

120. Heliotrope for Tablets 

Benzaldehyde 2} dr. 

Heliotropin 5J " 

Heliotrope Extract 1 J oz. 

Musk Tincture 1 J 

Benzoin Tincture 6} 

Alcohol 6 " 

1 lb. 



it 



n 



tt 



tt 



tt 



a 



a 



44 
4< 

44 
t< 

01. 
it 

<< 



121. Lilac for Tablets 

Musk Tincture 1 J dr. 

Rose Oil 2 

Hyacinthin 5 

Geranium Oil 5 

Cananga Oil 6} 

Benzyl Acetate 2J 

Benzoin Tincture 4 

Terpineol 8 

fib. 

122. Lilt of the Valley for 
Tablets 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 6 dr. 

Bergamot Oil 6 " 

Musk Tincture 2J oi. 

Linalool 3 J 

Benzoin Tincture 3J 

Terpineol 6 



«« 



41 



tt 



1 lb. 



123. Violet for Tablets 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 3* 

Rose Oil 3} 

Benzoin Tincture 5 

Sandal Oil 12 

Ionone 1 

Linalyl Acetate 3} 

Guaiac Oil 4 

Benzoin Tincture 6 



dr. 

44 
(I 
41 

OZ. 

44 
44 
44 



1 lb. 



(6) Sachets 

124. Sachet Base (Powder) Note: The odorants for sachets 

Sandal Wood Powder } oz. are always triturations of the corre- 

Benzoin Powder } " sponding oil or odorous substance 

Cinnamon Powder 1J " with powdered benzoin; of this 

Rose Leaves Powder 3 " trituration 1 J dr. is used per pound 

Orris Root Powder 10 " of base. 

1 lb. 



388 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



It 



ti 



125. Heliotrope for Sachets 

Benzaldehyde 6 dr. 

. Musk 10 " 

Vanillin 1J oz. 

Heliotropin 6 

Benzoin Powder 7} 

1 lb. 

126. Lilac for Sachets 

Musk 6 dr. 

Ionone 6 " . 

Terpineol 2J oz. 

Benzoin Powder 13 " 

1 lb. 



127. Rose for Sachets 

Musk 8 dr. 

Rose Oil 12 " 

Bergamot Oil 12 " 

Benzoin Powder 14 oz. 

lib. 



128. Violet for Sachets 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 5 dr. 

Ionone 1 J oz. 

Benzoin Powder 14 " 7 dr. 

1 lb. 



(c) Peau d'Espagne 

Ordinary chamois skin is beaten until soft, and then allowed to 
stand immersed in the following mixture for 4 to 6 days. It is 
then lightly expressed, and allowed to dry while kept stretched, 
whereupon it is cut into pieces of suitable size and thus marketed; 
or small pieces are sewn into silk bags. It serves for perfuming 
clothes closets, etc.: 



129. Essence for Peau 
d'Espagne 

PimentaOil 21 dr. 

NeroliOil 5 

Cumarin 5 

Bergamot Oil 5 

Sandal Oil 5 

Lavender Oil 6 



(i 



u 



« 



it 



tt 



Rose Oil 7|dr. 

Linaiyi Acetate 10 " 

Vanillin 10 « 

Geranium Oil 1 J oz. 

Musk Tincture 4 " 

Benzoin Tincture 7 " 



1 lb. 



(d) Smelling Salts 

The odorous mixtures are poured over dried ammonium car- 
bonate, which is contained in suitable bottles. A definite quan- 
tity cannot well be stated, but enough should be used for the salt 
to become fully saturated with it. 



130. Lavender Smellinq Salts 

Musk Tincture 5 dr. 

Rose Extract 5 " 

Lavender Oil 3§ oz. 

Alcohol 12 " 

i lb 



131. Smelling Salts 

Patchouly Oil } oz. 

Bergamot Oil If " 

Geranium Oil 2 " 

Lavender Oil 12 " 

1 lb. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



389 



Vm. PUMIGANTS 



(a) For Ordinary Fumigation 



132. Fumigating Essence 
(1J oz. per pound) 

Lavender Oil 1J 

Cassia Oil 2J 

Clove Oil 2J 

BergamotOil 2} 

Peru Balsam 11 

Jasmine Extract 1} 

Benzoin Tincture 3 

Styrax Solution 5 

Tolu Solution 5 



dr. 

<< 

(i 
<< 

tt 

OZ. 

tt 

tt 
tt 



pregnated with a concentrated solu- 
tion of potassium nitrate, if it is to 
be burned, and if not, it is treated 
with a solution of alum, and then 
dried, after which it is dipped into 
the following essence: 



1 lb. 



133. Fumigating Vinegar 
(11 oz. per pound) 

Acetic Acid (80%) 2J oz. 

Fumigating Essence \Z\ " 

1 lb. 

134. Fumigating Paper 

For making this an uncalendered 
paper is used, and the paper is im- 



Musk 

Cumarin 

Lemon Oil 

Peru Balsam 

Clove Oil 

Lavender Oil 

Geranium Oil 

Bergamot Oil 

Myrrh Tincture 

Styrax Solution 

Cascarilla Bark Tincture. . 

Sandarac Solution 

Benzoin Tincture 



idr. 

I " 

U " 

U " 

3 " 

3 " 

4J " 

7 " 
10 " 

1 oz. 

2 " 

3 " 

8 " 

1 lb 



(6) Room Sprays 



135. Eucalyptus Sprat 

Geranium Oil J dr. 

Terpineol 2 oz. 

Quinoeol 4 

Eucalyptus Oil 6 

Alcohol 4 " 

1 lb. 



tt 



a 



136. Pine Needle Sprat 

Lavender Oil J oz. 

Bergamot Oil } 

Pinus Pumilio Oil 5 

Silver Fir Oil 9J 



a 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 



B. Cosmetic Essences 

The true cosmetic essences are used in the care of the various 
parts of the body, such as the mouth, teeth, nails, skin, hair, and 
beard. No attention will here be paid to the so-called "beauty 
remedies," and of the others, only the most important will be 
treated of in so far as essences or odorous compositions are re- 
quired in their preparation. Only in individual cases will the 
bases of the finished product be given, with which the odorous 
compound is to be mixed. 



390 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



I. CARE OF THE MOUTH 

(a) Mouthwashes (Essences for Making Them) 

These are made by mixing the quantity ordered to be used per 
pound, with sufficient alcohol to make this quantity. Where 
essences are to be marketed from which the washes are to be made, 
the preparation is to be diluted with alcohol so that 2 oz. of the 
product will contain the quantity of the preparation required for 
1 lb. of finished product; these 2 oz. are then of course to be mixed 
with alcohol to make 1 lb. 



n 



<< 



a 



it 



tt 



137. Anathbrin Mouthwash 

(j oz. per pound.) 

Rose Oil 1J dr. 

Cinnamon Oil 1} 

Mace Oil 11 

SantalOil 2J 

PimentaOil 2J 

GuaiacOil 31 

Myrrh Tincture 4 oz. 3 dr. 

Alcohol 11 " 

1 lb. 

138. Quinosol Mouthwash 

(21 dr. per pound.) 

Cinnamon Oil 5 dr. 

Quinosol 1 oz. 

Anethol 1 " 

Peppermint Oil 3 oz. 11 dr. 

Alcohol 10 oz. 

lib. 

139. Eau de Botot 

(2J dr. per pound.) 

Peppermint Oil 6 dr. 

Mace Oil 6 " 

Cinnamon Oil 12 " 

Clove Oil 1 J oz. 

Ambergris Tincture 5 " 

Alcohol 8 " 

1 lb. 



140. Eucalyptus Mouthwash 

(2J dr. per pound.) 

Peppermint Oil 12 dr. 

Geranium Oil 12 " 

Salol ljoi. 

Eucalyptus Oil 4 " 

Alcohol 9 " 

1 lb. 

141. Salol Mouthwash 

(1J oz. per pound.) 

Cinnamon Oil 1 dr. 

Clove Oil 2J 

Anethol 31 

Mace Oil 5 " 

Salol 21 o«. 

Benzoin Tincture 2} 

Alcohol 101 



a 



n 



u 



a 



1 lb. 



dr. 



142. Thymol Mouthwash 

(1J oz. per pound.) 

Peppermint Oil 3 

Eucalyptus Oil 6 

Myrrh Tincture 13 

Thymol 11 oz. 

Benzoin Tincture 3 " 

Alcohol 10 " 

1 lb. 



u 



tt 



(b) Cachous 

These serve to perfume the mouth and the breath. The base 
is a paste mass which is drier 1 ug been mixed with the 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



391 



xlorous constituent in the proportion of J dr. per pound just 
before it becomes too hard. The paste mass consists of a mixture 
>f 1 part gum solution, 2 parts powdered sugar and 2 parts milk 
lugar. 

143. Cachous Rose Oil 3J oz. 

(} dr. per pound.) Geranium Oil 6 " 

Vanillin 12 dr. Mcoho1 i»JL 

Civet Tincture 3J oz. 



1 lb. 



II. CARE OF THE TEETH 



(a) Toothpastes 

144. Toothpaste Base 

Soap, Powdered 1J oz 

Glycerin 3} 

Magnesium Carbonate. ... 31 

Calcium Carbonate 8 



a 



ti 



*t 



1 lb. 

For this there is required 1J dr. 
perfume made as follows: 

145. EUCALYPTU8 FOR TOOTH- 
PASTE 

Geranium Oil 3 oz. 

Benzyl Acetate 3 " 

Eucalyptus Oil 10 oz. 



1 lb. 



146. Peppermint for Tooth- 
paste 

Cinnamon Oil 3 oz. 

Anethol 6J " 

Peppermint Oil 6j " 

1 lb. 



<< 



n 



(b) Toothpowder 

147. Toothpowder Base 

Milk Sugar 1J oz. 

Magnesium Carbonate 4} 

Calcium Carbonate 10$ 

1 lb. 

To every 10 lb. of this base add 
oz. of perfume made as follows: 

148. Eucalyptus for Tooth- 
powder 

Eucalyptol 4 oz. 

Geranium Oil 6 " 

Benzyl Acetate 6 



tt 



lib. 

149. Peppermint for Tooth- 
powder 

Peppermint Oil 3 oz. 

Anise Oil 6J 

Clove OU 6J 



it 



tt 



1 lb. 



(c) Toothsoap Cream 



The cream has the following com- 
position: 



Milk Sugar 

Water 

Soap Powder 

Glycerin 

Magnesium Carbonate 

Calcium Carbonate 



} oz. 

U 
II 
31 
3§ 

1 lb. 



150. Perfume for Toothsoap 
Cream 

(1| dr. per pound.) 

Peppermint Oil 5 oz. 

Eucalyptus Oil 5 " 

Clove OU 6_^_ 

lib. 



392 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



m. CARE OF THE NAILS 

151. Perfume for Nail Geranium Oil. 

Powder Terpineol 

Ylang-Ylang Oil i oz. 

Vanillin 11 " 

IV. CARE OF THE SKIN 

(a) Perfumes for Skin Creams 



6J OB. 

7 " 
1 lb. 



152. Glycerin Cream 
(6 dr. per pound cream) 

Hyacinthin 1 oz. 

Anisaldehyde 2 • " 

Benzyl Acetate 3 " 

Terpineol 10 " 

lib. 

153. Lanolin Cream 



Vanillin J oz. 

Lavender Oil 11 

Geraniol 4 

Terpineol 10 



n 



a 



<c 



154. Toilet Cream 

Zibethin (10% solution).. . 

Lavender Oil 

Linalool 

Musk Tincture 

Geranium Oil 

Benzyl Acetate 

155. Vaselin Cream 

Anisaldehyde 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial 

Cananga Oil 

Jasmine Extract 

Benzyl Acetate 



ioz. 

U" 
3i " 

3J " 

3J " 
4 " 
1 lb. 



} oz. 

U " 
2J " 

21 " 

9 



<< 



1 lb. 



1 lb. 



(6) Toilet Powder Perfume 



156. Fat Powder 
(2 J dr. per pound) 

Heliotropin 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial 

Geranium Oil 

Musk Tincture , 

Rose Extract 



1 oz. 

1 " 
41 " 

4 

6 

1 lb. 



11 



157. Rice Powder 

Rose Oil 

Benzaldehyde 

Bergamot Oil 

Rose Extract 

Musk Tincture 



i oz. 

H " 
H " 

41 " 
8 " 
1 lb. 



V. CARE OF THE HAIR 

(a) Hair Oil Perfumes 



158. Hair Oil Perfume, I 
(2 J dr. per pound) 

Cinnamon Oil } oz. 

Cassia Oil } " 

Lemon Oil .. 2J " 

Terpineol 2J " 

Amyl Valerate Solution. . . 21 " 

Rose Geranium Oil 21 " 

Bergamot Oil 5 _^ l _ 

1 lb. 



159. Hair Oil Perfume, 

Cassia Oil 

Orange Oil 

Lemon Oil 

Rose Geranium Oil 



II 

21 oz. 
21 " 
5 

6 

1 lb. 



M 



M 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



393 



160. Arnica Hair Oil 

Terpineol 1J oz. 

Rose Geranium Oil 3J " 

Bergamot Oil 3J " 

ArnicaOil 8 " 

1 lb. 

161. Burdock Hair Oil 

Lavender Oil 2 oz. 

Clove Oil 3 " 

Rose Geranium Oil 3} 

Bergamot Oil 3} 

Lemon Oil 4 " 

1 lb. 



<< 



M 



162. Flower Hair Oils 

These are made exclusively from 
mixtures of the true flower oils. 



163. Macassar Hair Oil 

Rose Oil } oz. 

Ceylon Cinnamon Oil 2 " 

Clove Oil 3 " 

Bergamot Oil 10J " 

1 lb. 



(6) Pomade Perfume Oils 

These are used in the proportion of 1 dr. per pound pomade. 
The hair oil perfumes may also be used, but only in the larger 
quantities here given. 



164. Pomade Oil for Domestic 
or Export Trade 

Lemon Oil 5 oz. 

Citroneila Oil 51 " 

Cassia Oil 5J " 

1 lb. 

165. Apple Pomade 

Zibethin (10% solution).. . 4 dr. 

Lemon Oil 4f " 

Lavender Oil 4 " 

Orange Oil 7 " 

Amyl Valerate Solution ... 15 oz. 

1 lb. 

166. China Pomade 

Geranium Oil 1 oz. 

Clove Oil 4 

Bergamot Oil 4 

Peru Balsam 7 " 



C( 



tt 



lib. 



167. Flower Pomades 

These are made exclusively from 
the true flower pomades, and some- 



times from these pomades after they 
have been washed in making triple 
extracts. 



168. Ice Pomade 

Geranium Oil 

Bergamot Oil 

Lemon Oil 



4oz. 
6 " 
6 " 

lib! 



169. Marrow Pomade 

Cassia Oil 1} oz. 

Lavender Oil 1J " 

Orange Oil 2§ " 

Bergamot Oil 3J " 

Lemon Oil 7 " 



1 lb. 



170. Strawberry Pomades 

Terpineol 2 oz. 

Rose Geranium Oil 2J " 

Strawberry Essence 11 J " 



\ \sa. 



394 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



(c) Stick Pomades 



171. Base for Stick Pomades 

Ccresin 1J 01. 

Tallow 3 " 

Vasclin 5 " 

Colophony 6J 



(i 



1 lb. 



172. Perfume for Cosmettques 
(2} dr. per pound) 

Geranium Oil 1 J oz 

Clove Oil 2 

Bergamot Oil 2J 

Rose Geranium Oil £ 

Terpineol 5 



ii 



ii 



ii 



ii 



1 lb. 



(d) Hair Creams 

173. Base for Hair Creams 

Colophony 

Tallow 

Spermaceti 

Vasclin equal parts 



174. Perfume for Hair Creams 
(1 dr. per pound) 

Cassia Oil 1 J os. 

Bergamot Oil 2 ' 

Citronella Oil 2 • 

Clove Oil 2J ' 

Lavender 3 ' 

Lemon Oil 5 ' 



1 lb. 



(e) Bandolines 



176. Perfume for Bandolines 

Benzaldchyde 4oz. 

Bergamot Oil 5 " 

Geranium Oil 7 " 

lib. 



175. Base for Bandolines 

Tragacanth 1 oz. 

Alcohol 2J " 

Let stand for 1 day, then add 

Cold Water 11 oz. 

When the mixture is quite homo- 
geneous, pass through a strainer, and 
add the perfume. 

(/) Hair Washes 

These serve for softening the hair and stimulating its growth. 
For the so-called "hair growers, " however, no formulas will be 
given here. For these there are usually employed tincture of 
cinchona and tincture of cantharides, the latter being rather toxic. 
Here will be given only the perfume compounds which are to be 
made up with strong alcohol. For essences, and for preparations 
to be completed by the consumer, the quantities of the compound, 
wherever 2\ dr. of these are required per pound of finished product, 
are to be added to 13? oz. alcohol; and are to be marked that 1 oz. 
is to be diluted with alcohol to make 1 lb. (The mixtures are to 
be employed in the proportion of 2J fa * wm ' oound.) 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



395 



177. Bat Rum (Foaming) 

Pimenta Oil } oz. 

Bay Oil..... 3} " 

Genuine Rum 5 " 

Ammonia Water 3 

Alcohol 3} 



u 



tt 



1 lb. 

178. Bibch Haib Wash 

Terpineol } ox. 

Bergamot Oil } 

Geranium Oil 1 

Glycerin 4 

Alcohol 4 

Birch Bud Oil 5§ 



180. Florida Water 

Cumarin 1 ) <lr. 

NeroliOil 2\ " 

Orange Oil 4 " 

Jasmine Extract *4\ oz. 

Rose Extract 4 " 

Caatue Extract H " 

1 lb. 



U 



u 



u 



n 



tt 



1 lb. 



179. Eau de Quinine 

NeroliOil 1J 

Vanillin 2| 

Bergamot Oil 10 

Lemon Oil 10 

Geranium Oil 1J 

Peru Balsam 1} 

Rose Extract 1| 

Tincture Cinchona 10} 



dr. 



181. Honey Watkk 

Honey Flavor Oil 

Rose Oil 

Neroli Oil 

Bergamot Oil 

Glycerin 2 oz. 

Alcohol 13 " 

lb. 



li<lr. 

II " 
•21 " 

11 " 



1 



a 
a 
tt 

oz. 

a 

it 



182. Ice Hash Wahh 

Ethyl Aortal* 

Geranium Oil 

liergarnot Oil 

Menthol 

Alcohol 



Ir. 




(1 
liox. 

a 

11 



«i 



•I 



it 



1 lb. 



1 lb. 



In making the following semi-medicinal hairwiiHliPH tin* pro- 
portion to be employed is 1£ oz. per pound. 



183. Naphthol Haib Wash 

Orris Oil, Concrete J dr. 

Heliotropin 2i " 

Betanaphthol 4 oz. 

Alcohol 12 " 



Cantharidfw Tincture? 8 

Alcohol 



5 



oz. 

(f 



1 lb. 



184. Philodermin Haib Wash 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 1} dr. 

Methyl Anthranilate 1} " 

Orange Oil 1§ 

Lavender Oil 2J 

Lemon Oil 2§ 

Bergamot Oil 11 

Glycerin 1J oz. 



« 



n 



tt 



a 



1 lb. 

185. Hhamtoo Hani Wahh 

Clove Oil ljdr. 

Geranium Oil H " 

Terpineol 2 J " 

Lemon Oil 2| 

Ammonium Chloride 4 

Borax 6 

Potassium Carbonate 14 

Ammonia Water 1 

Water 5 

Alcohol 8 



n 
tt 

oz. 

tt 
it 



1 lb. 



396 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



186. Dandruff Hair Wash 



Geranium Oil 6 dr. 

Bergamot Oil 6 

Orange Oil 10 

Resorcin 10 

Cantharides Tincture 1§ oz. 

Cinchona Tincture 3 J " 

Alcohol 9 " 

1 lb. 



H 



it 



a 



187. Violet Hair Wash 

(2) dr. per pound.) 

Rose Oil J oi. 

Jasmin Oil, Artificial 1 

Orris Oil, Concrete 1 

Bergamot Oil 2J 

Ionone 2J 

Benzyl Acetate 2) 

Alcohol 6J 



1 lb. 



VI. CARE OF THE BEARD 

(a) Brittiantines 



188. Base for Liquid Brilllan- 

tine 

CastorOil ] . _, 

Alcohol [equal parts 

189. Base for Crystal Bril- 
liantine 

Spermaceti 3 oz. 

Olive Oil 13 " 

Melt together. 

For either of the above 2} dr. 
perfume is used per pound. 

190. Brilliantine Perfume 

Cinnamon Oil 1 oz. 

Geranium Oil 2J 

Terpineol 2 J 

Linalool 4 

Bergamot Oil 6 



Benzyl Benzoate 5 oz. 

Terpineol 6 " 

lib. 

192. Lilt of the Valley Brillian- 
tine 

Ylang-Ylang Oil |oz. 

Linalool 4J 

Terpineol 5 

Lily of the Valley Extract.. 6 



i< 



if 



« 



(< 



a 



tt 



it 



1 lb. 

193. Rose Brilliantine 

Rose Oil | oz. 

Bergamot Oil 3J " 

Geranium Oil 12 ^ 

1 lb. 



1 lb. 



194. Violet Brilliantine 

Ionone 2) oz. 

Benzyl Benzoate 6 J " 

Bergamot Oil 7 " 



191. Lilac Brilliantine 

Hyacinthin 2 oz. 

Aubepin 3 " 

(6) Mustache or Beard Fixative (Pommade Hongraise) 



195. Base for Beard Fixative 

Colophony 12 dr. 

Japan Wax 3 oz. 

Melt, and while hot add 

Soap Powder 4 " 

Solution Gum Arabic (1:2) . 2J " 
Water 5i dr. 

Perfume to be added in the pro- 
portion of 2\ dr. per pound. 



196. Perfume for Beard 
Fixative 

Bergamot Oil 4 os. 

Clove Oil 4 " 

Lemon Oil 8_^ 

lib. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



397 



C. Soap Perfumes 

The soap perfumes consist chiefly of volatile oils or synthetic 
odorous compounds with the occasional addition of alcohol. 
They are all, without exception, so made that £ oz. is required per 
hundredweight of soap. 

I. HOUSEHOLD SOAPS 



197. Soap Perfume, I 

Lemongra88 Oil 4 oz. 

Cassia Oil 4 " 

Citronella Oil 8_^_ 

lib. 



198. Soap Perfume, II 

Citrene 4 oz. 

Citronella Oil 12 " 

1 lb. 

199. Soap Perfume, III 

Cedar Oil 3§ oz. 

Caraway Oil 3| " 

Thymene 3i " 

Safrol 5j " 

1 lb. 



M 



<< 



200. Soap Perfume, IV 

Caraway Oil 2J oz 

Lavender Oil 3 J 

Gingergrass Oil 3 J 

Thymene 6j " 

1 lb. 

201. Soap Perfume, V 

Mirbane Oil } oz. 

Caraway Oil 4 " 

Cassia Oil :.. 4 " 

Bergamot Oil 7j " 

1 lb. 

202. Soap Perfume, VI 

Mirbane Oil £ oz. 

Caraway Oil 2J " 

Bergamot Oil 5 

Peppermint Oil, Japanese . 8 



ti 



it 



1 lb. 



n. ORDINARY SOAPS 



203. Bitter Almond 

Benzaldehyde 4 oz. 

Bergamot Oil 12 " 

1 lb. 

204. Honey 

Peppermint Oil 2§ oz. 

Clove Oil 5 " 

Citronella Oil 8j " 

1 lb. 

205. Rose 

Cassia Oil 1 J oz. 

Gingergrass Oil 3 " 

Bergamot Oil 5§ " 

Geranium Oil 6 " 

Tib. 



206. Violet 

Musk Tincture J oz. 

Rose Geranium Oil 1J " 

Clove Oil li " 

Lavender Oil 6 " 

Cassia Oil 6| " 

1 lb. 

207. Brown Windsor 

Anise Oil 1§ oz. 

Caraway Oil 7 " 

Bergamot Oil 7| " 

1 lb. 

208. White Windsor 

Clove Oil 2§oz. 

Cassia Oil 5 " 

Caraway Oil 



398 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



m. TOILET SOAPS 



209. Toilet Soap, I 

Musk 6 dr. 

Benzaldehyde 6 " 

Rose Geranium Oil 3J oz. 

Geranium Oil 4 " 

Gingergrass Oil 4 " 

Verbena Oil 4 " 

1 lb. 

210. Toilet Soap, II 

Musk Joz. 

Clove Oil 1J " 

Caraway Oil 2* " 

Cinnamon Oil 3 " 

Lavender Oil 4 " 

Geranium Oil 4j " 

1 lb. 

211. Acacia 

Cumarin 1J dr. 

Vanillin 5} " 

Yara-Yara 7 " 

Clove Oil 7i oz. 

Petitgrain Oil 8 " 

1 lb. 

212. Alpine Flowers 

Thyme Oil ljoz. 

Rosemary Oil 2 " 

Lavender Oil 2\ « 

Peppermint Oil 2\ " 

Sage Oil 2| " 

Lemon Oil 6 " 

1 lb. 

213. Bitter Almond 

Bcrgamot Oil 1 oz. 

Lavender Oil 1§ " 

Benzaldehyde 13} " 

1 lb. 

214. Bouquet of Flowers 

Musk J oz. 

Benzaldehyde 1J " 

Lavender Oil 4 " 

Lemon Oil 4 " 

Gingergrass Oil 5j " 

1 \b. 



215. Almond Bran 

Bergamot Oil 2J oz. 

Benzaldehyde 13} " 



216. Chocolate 

Vanillin 

Cassia Oil 

Clove Oil 

Peru Balsam 



1 


lb. 


1 


oz. 


4 


it 


H 


it 


6 


(1 



1 lb. 

217. Eau de Cologne 

Musk Tincture 1 oz. 

Clove Tincture 1J " 

Santal Oil 1J " 

Lemongrass Oil 2\ " 

Cedar Oil 2\ 

Rose Geranium Oil 7 



« 



it 



1 lb. 



218. Eucalyptus 

Eugenol 

Terpineol 

Geraniol 

Eucalyptus Oil 



1 oz 
2 
4 
9 " 



n 



tt 



lib. 



219. GULMAUVB 

Peppermint Oil i oz. 

Verbena Oil 1 " 

Petitgrain Oil 2 " 

Lemon Oil 2 " 

Lavender Oil 10j " 

1 lb. 

220. Flower 

Cassia Oil 5 dr. 

Clove Oil 5 " 

Lavender Oil 10 " 

Petitgrain Oil 12 " 

Musk Tincture 1 oz. 

Cedar Oil 2 " 

Bergamot Oil 11 " 

lib. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



399 



221. Heliotrope 

Musk Tincture } oz. 

Lavender Oil li " 

Rose Geranium Oil 2 " 

Bergamot Oil 2J " 

Clove OU 4 " 

Peru Balsam 5 ^_ 

1 lb. 

222. Herbs 

Peppermint Oil 8 oz. 

Calamus Oil 8 " 

lib. 

223. Hyacinth 

Musk Tincture } oz. 

Benzaldehyde 1J " 

Cassia Oil 6 " 

Styrax Tincture 8 " 

1 lb. 

224. Lavender 

Ambergris Tincture 2 J oz. 

Lavender Oil 13j " 

1 lb. 

225. Lilac 

Rose Geranium Oil 2 oz. 

CanangaOil 4 " 

Terpineol 10 " 

lib. 

226. Lily Milk 

Patchouly Oil 7 dr. 

Benzaldehyde 9 " 

Clove Oil 1 oz. 

Lavender Oil 2 " 

Lemon Oil 2 " 

Petitgrain Oil 2 " 

Bergamot Oil 2 " 

Geranium Oil 6_^_ 

lib. 

227. Linden Flowers 

Cananga Oil 10 dr. 

Anise Oil 10 " 

Musk Tincture 1 oz. 



Fennel Oil 1J oz. 

Lavender Oil 1J " 

Gingergrass Oil 3 " 

Lemon Oil 7|_^_ 

1 lb. 

228. Lily of the Valley 

Musk Tincture 10 dr. 

Cananga Oil 1 oz. 

Linaloe Oil 5 " 

Terpineol 9j " 

1 lb. 

229. Milk 

Lavender Oil 1J oz. 

Benzoin Tincture 2J " 

Linaloe Oil 5 " 

Bergamot Oil 7 " 

1 lb. 

230. Millefleurs 

Clove Oil 4 dr. 

Cassia Oil 4 " 

Musk Tincture 12 " 

Lavender Oil 12 " 

Petitgrain Oil 1 oz. 

Cedar Oil 2 " 

Bergamot Oil 11 " 

lib. 

231. Musk 

Clove Oil 10 dr. 

Cinnamon Oil 10 " 

Lavender Oil 12 " 

Bergamot Oil 2 oz. 

Spike Oil 2 " 

Cedar Oil 2| " 

Sassafras Oil 2J " 

Musk Tincture 5 ^ 

Fib. 

232. New Mown Hay 

Musk 1 oz. 

Cumarin 2 " 

Thymene 2 " 

Lavender Oil 5 " 

Bergamot Oil 6_^ 



400 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



233. Patchouly 

Cassia Oil 

Rose Geranium Oil 

Lemongrass Oil 

Patchouly Oil 



n 



n 



<< 



2J oz 

.... 2J 

.... 5 

... 6 

1 lb. 

234. Peach Flowers 

Clove Oil 2Joz. 

Fennel Oil 2J 

Benzaldehyde 2J 

Rose Geranium Oil 3J 

Bergamot Oil 5 



tt 



It 



(4 



tt 



235. 

Citronella Oil. . 

Santal Oil 

Lemongrass Oil 
Lemon Oil .... 



Pinks 



236. 

Patchouly Oil . 
Peru Balsam . . 
Citronella Oil.. 
Styrax Solution 
Lavender Oil . . 
Geranium Oil.. 



Reseda 



1 lb. 



2oz. 
2 " 
4 " 
8 " 
lib. 



6 dr 
1 oz 

II 

2§ 
2| 

8 



<< 



<( 



n 



tt 



237. Red Rose 

Benzaldehyde 

Musk Tincture 

Bergamot Oil 

Gingcrgrass Oil 

Geranium Oil 



238. White Rose 

Vetiver Oil 

Lavender Oil 



1 lb. 



5 dr. 
11 " 
4oz. 

5 " 

6 " 
lib. 



2Jdr 
3| 



<< 



Musk Tincture 10 dr. 

Lemon Oil 3) 

Bergamot Oil 5 

Geranium Oil 6J 



« 



« 



239. 

Yara-Yara. . . 
Amyl Acetate 

Clove Oil 

Terpineol. . . . 
Geranium Oil 



Strawberry 



1 


lb. 


1 


OS. 


2i 


tt 


3} 


tt 


4 


tt 


5 


tt 



tt 



tt 



it 



tt 



1 lb. 

240. Vanilla 

Rose Geranium Oil 1 ox. 

Clove Oil 1J 

Lavender Oil 1J 

Peru Balsam 2} 

Benzoin Tincture 5 

Vanillin Tincture 5 " 

1 lb. 

241. Violet 

Musk 2 dr. 

Ceylon Cinnamon 6 " 

Ionone 1 J oz. 

Peru Balsam 1 J 

Sassafras Oil 2) 

Bergamot Oil 4 " 

Lavender Oil 6} " 

1 lb. 

242. .Ylang-Ylano 

Musk Tincture 1 § oz. 

Geranium Oil 1J " 

NiobeOil 3 " 

Cananga Oil 10 



u 



tt 



tt 



1 lb. 



IV. MILLED SOAPS 



243. Almond Flowers 

Musk 1 dr. 

Benzyl Acetate 5 oz. 

Benzaldehyde 11 " 

lib. 



244. Bitter Almond 

Geranium Oil 1 J oz. 

Bergamot Oil 1, " 

Benzaldehyde 



i« 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



401 



245. Cananga 

Musk Id 

Bergamot Oil 3 o 

Lavender Oil 5 " 

Cananga Oil 8 " 

246. Chyprk 

PatchoulyOil 1 



I) " 
51 " 



21 ■ 



Niobe Oil. . 

Cumarin 

Orris Oil, Concrete. . 

Hyacinthin 

Vanillin 

Rose Oil 

Rose Geranium Oil. . 

Bergamot Oil 4 

Musk Tincture 61 " 

1 lb. 
247. Kau de Cologne 

Zibethin 1J dr. 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 10) " 

Rosemary Oil 1 oi. 

NeroliOil 1 " 

Lavender Oil 5J " 

Bergamot Oil 8 " 

1 lb. 
248. Ess Bouquet 

Musk 1 dr. 

Zibethin 21 

VetiverOil 2) 

Aubepine 4 

Geranium Oil 10 

Benzyl Acetate U 

Peru Balsam 11 

Clove Oil 11 

Bergamot Oil 3] 

Lavender Oil 



1 lb. 
t 249. Flohid* Water 

Vanillin 21 dr. 

VetiverOil 71 " 

Rosemary Oil 2 oz. 

Thyme Oil 2 " 



a Oil.. 
Lavender Oil. , 



31 ' 



250. Fbangipanni 

Zibethin • 1 oz. 

Geranium Oil 1 " 

NeroliOil 1 " 

VetiverOil 2"" 

Santal Oil 11 " 

lib. 

251. Heliotrope 

Vanillin 5 dr. 

Bern Aldehyde 7 " 

Benzyl Chloride 12 " 

Peru Balaam 31 oz. 

Heliotropin 5 " 

Terpineol 6 " 

1 lb. 

252. Honet 

Hyacinthin 1J dr. 

Zibethin 1J " 

Vanillin 2! " 

NeroliOil 5 " 

Lavender Oil 6 " 

Geranium Oil 15 oz. 

1 lb. 

253. Indian Flowers 

Musk J dr. 

Zibethin I " 

VetiverOil 2\ " 

Rose Oil 7 " 

Patchouly Oil 10 " 

Portugal Oil lioz. 

Santal Oil 1J " 

Verbena Oil 1J " 

RoseOil, Artificial 1) " 

Geranium Oil 91 " 

1 lb. 

254. Jockey Cldb 

Musk 21 dr. 

Cassia Oil 51 " 

Hyacinthin i oz. 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial.... 1J " 

Rose Oil, Artificial 4 " 

Geranium Oil 4 '* 

Clove Oil 6 " 



402 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



255. Lavender 

Zibethin 2} dr. 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 5 " 

SantalOil 5 " 

Cananga Oil 5 " 

Benzyl Acetate 6J " 

Bergamot Oil 2J oz. 

Lavender Oil 12 " 

1 lb. 

256. Lettuce (Lajtue) 

Zibethin 1 dr. 

Musk 5 " 

Safrol 1 J oz. 

Petitgrain Oil 3 " 

Bergamot Oil 4 " 

Lavender Oil 7 ^_ 

1 lb. 

257. Lilac 

Musk. 1J dr. 

Aubepine 2* " 

Vanillin 3* " 

Benzaldehyde '. SI " 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 3 oz. 

Geranium Oil 4 " 

Terpineol 8 " 

1 lb. 

258. Lily Milk 

Musk li dr. 

Benzaldehyde 2\ " 

Patchouly Oil 2} " 

Eugenol 5 " 

Rose Oil 5 " 

Lavender Oil 1 J oz. 

Petitgrain Oil 1§ " 

Lavender Oil 1} " 

Bergamot Oil 2J " 

Geranium Oil 8 " 

1 lb. 

259. Lily of the Valley 

Zibethin 1 J dr. 

Ylang-Ylang 2} oz. 

Terpineol 3J " 

Linalool 5 " 

Bergamot Oil 5 " 

1 \b. 



260. MlLLEFLEURS 

Patchouly Oil 4 dr. 

Oil Rose Geranium 6 " 

Cassia Oil 6 " 

Peru Balram 2 oz. 

PimentaOil 2 " 

Lemon Oil 3} " 

Lavender Oil 3J " 

Bergamot Oil 4 " 

261. Musk 

Vetiver Oil 4 dr. 

Musk 10 " 

Cassia Oil 10 " 

Santal Oil 4} oz. 

Geranium Oil 10 " 

TTb. 

262. New Mown Hay 

Musk \ dr. 

Orris Oil, Concrete 2 " 

NeroliOil 13J " 

Bergamot Oil 4 oz. 

Lavender Oil 5 " 

Cumarin _6 ^ 

1 lb. 

263. Peau d'Espagne 

Zibethin 5 dr. 

Vetiver Oil 5 " 

Patchouly Oil 8 " 

Vanillin 10 " 

Cassia Oil 1 oz. 

Cananga Oil 1} " 

Bergamot Oil \\ " 

Cinnamon Oil li " 

Santal Oil 2 " 

Geranium Oil 2} " 

Peru Balsam 2J " 

Castor Tincture 2\ " 

1 lb. 
264. Pinks 

Musk ljdr. 

Cassia Oil 7} " 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 11 " 

Rose, Oil, Artificial 1 J oz. 

Clove Oil 5} " 

Benzoin Tincture J[ " 

1 lb. 



COSMETIC E8SEXCE8 



403 



it 



ti 



265. Rose 

Musk*. li dr. 

VetiverOil 2\ 

Hyacinthin 5 

SantalOU 5 " 

Rose OU, Artificial 10 " 

Geranium Oil 14joz. 

1 lb. 

266. Tea Rose 

Musk li dr. 

VetiverOil 2} 

Patchouly Oil 4 

NeroliOil 7 

Rose Oil 9 " 

Petitgrain Oil 1 os. 

Geranium Oil 13j " 

1 lb. 



u 



it 



It 



267. White Rose 

• 

Zibethin , 

Patchouly Oil 

Rose Oil 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial 

Neroli Oil, Artificial 

Geranium Oil 



u 



a 



ljdr. 

i 

3} 

1 os. 

H " 

13 " 
1 lb. 



268. Sweet Pea 

Vanillin 4 

Benzyl Acetate .• 10 

Portugal OU 10 

Geranium Oil 3 

Cananga Oil 3} 

Petitgrain Oil 3J 

Styrax Solution 4) 



dr. 



it 



it 



OS. 



it 



It 



It 



260. Trefle 

Citral 2J dr 

Musk 2J 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial 11 

Cumarin 1 os 

Linalyl Acetate 1 

Geranium Oil 2} 

NiobeOil 3J 

Benzyl AceUte 3} 

Terpineol 4 



*i 



«< 



n 



u 



a 



ti 



a 



1 lb. 

270. Violet 

Musk 1 dr. 

Orris Oil, Concrete 2J os. 

Vanillin Tincture 3 

Ylang- Ylang Oil 4 

Bergamot 5} 



a 



a 



a 



1 lb. 



271. Violet, Xizza 

Zibethin 6 dr 

Rose Oil 6 " 

Orris Oil, Concrete 1J oz 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial 1 J 

Neroli Oil, Artificial 2J 

Bergamot Oil 10 



a 



it 



ti 



1 lb. 



1 lb. 



272. Ylang- Ylang 

Zibethin 

Orris Oil, Concrete 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial 

Eugenol 

Lavender Oil 

Bergamot Oil 

Ylang-Ylang OU 




V. TRANSPARENT SOAPS 



273. Glycerin, I 

Bergamot OU 1} os. 

CitronellaOU 2| 

Cananga OU 3 

CloveOU 3J " 

LavenderOU 6 " 

1TK 



u 



it 



274. Glycerin, II 

Thyme Oil 

Cassia OU 

CloveOU 

Lavender OU 

Safrol 



10 dr. 
14 " 

lioz. 

6 " 

1 " 



\ \n. 



404 



MANUAL FOR THE ESSENCE INDUSTRY 



275. Glycerin, III 

Geranium Oil 

Cassia Oil 

Lavender Oil 



1J oz 

6J 

8 



Lavender Oil 
Alcohol 



tt 



ti 



1 lb. 



279. Reseda 

Orris Oil, Concrete 

Petitgrain Oil 

Bergamot Oil 



280. Rose 

PatchoulyOil 

Lavender Oil 

Geranium Oil 



276. Heliotrope 

Benzaldehyde li dr. 

Vanillin 3f " 

Heliotropin 4 oz. 11 " 

Alcohol 11 " 

1 lb. 

277. Lily op the Valley 

Benzyl Acetate 4 dr. 

Ylang-Ylang Oil 2\ oz. 

LinaloeOil 5 " 

Lavender Oil 8 ^ 

Fib* 

278. New Mown Hay 

Cumarin li oz. 

Geranium Oil 2J " 

VI. LIQUID SOAPS 

282. Glycerin Soap 283. Toilet Soap 



6 ox. 
6 " 
1 lb. 



4 dr. 

5 oz. 
10j " 

1 lb. 



4 dr. 

5 oz. 
101 



u 



1 lb. 



281. Violet 

Orris Oil, Concrete 

Ionone 

NeroliOil 

Geranium Oil 

Jasmine Oil, Artificial. . 
Bergamot Oil 



4 dr. 
4 " 
8 " 
loz. 
1 
13 



tt 



tt 



lib. 



Citronella Oil } 

Benzaldehyde J 

Clove Oil } 

Wintergreen Oil li 

Sassafras Oil 1§ 

Geranium Oil 1J 

Cinnamon Oil li 

Musk Tincture 4 

Bergamot Oil 4 



oz. 
tt 

tt 
a 
tt 
n 
tt 

dr. 



Benzaldehyde. 

Aubepine 

Bergamot Oil . 
Heliotropin. . . 
Terpineol .... 



dr. 



5 
11 
3ioz. 

3i 

8 

1 lb. 



n 



n 



tt 



1 lb. 



VTI. SHAVING SOAPS 

284. Shaving Soap 

Cassia Oil 1 oz. 

Cinnamon Oil 1 J " 

Rose Geranium Oil 2i " 

Geranium Oil 11 



Clove Oil 5 oz. 

Geranium Oil 5j " 

1 lb. 



tt 



1 lb. 

285. Shaving Cream, Rose 

Rose Oil 1 oz. 

Santal Oil 1 " 

Musk Tincture 3* " 



286. Shaving Cream, Violet 

Musk i oz. 

Ionone 1 J " 

Orris Oil, Concrete 3 i " 

Bergamot Oil 10j " 

1 lb. 



COSMETIC ESSENCES 



405 



Vm. SKIN CREAMS 



287. Lanolin 

Zibethin 2Jdr 

VetiverOil 6 " 

Benzyl Acetate 7 

Cassia Oil 8i 

Bergamot Oil 2 os. 

Geranium Oil 12j " 

1 lb. 

288. Lanolin Cold Cream 

Eucalyptus Oil 1 os. 

Lavender Oil 1J " 



tt 



<( 



tt 



(i 



Bergamot Oil 3 oz. 

Clove Oil 3i 

LinaioeOil 31 

Geranium Oil 4 " 



289. Vaseline 

Musk Tincture . . '. 

Benzaldehyde 

Caraway Oil 

Rose Geranium Oil 

Geranium Oil. . .- 



1 


lb. 


7 


dr. 


9 


n 


2J 


oz. 


5 


<< 


71 


n 



1 lb. 



IX. MEDICATED SOAPS 



The perfumes for these serve only to cover any odor due to the 
added remedial agent, or as a general perfume which may be used 
without any special rules. 



290. Borax Soap 

Citronella Oil 

Bergamot Oil 

Lemon 



ljoz. 
7 " 
7j " 
1 lb. 



291. Pine Needle 

Vermouth Oil } oz. 

CloveOil li 

Eucalyptus Oil 3} 

Pine Needle Oil 10* 



tt 



n 



u 



292. Pumice Stone 

Peppermint Oil 

Caraway Oil 



1 lb. 



ljoz. 



Rosemary Oil 5 oz. 

Lavender Oil 8§ " 

1 lb. 

293. Sauctlated Soap 

Musk Tincture J oz. 

Lavender Oil 3| " 

Geranium Oil 12 " 



294. Tannin Soap 

Bergamot Oil 

Lavender Oil 

Geranium Oil 

Musk Tincture 



1 


lb. 


3i 


oz. 


31 


<( 


21 


n 


'61 


tt 



1 lb. 



INDEX 



Absinthe, Swiss, 231. 

essence, French and German, 231. 
Acctylization, 89. 
Acid, acetic, 35. 

benzoic, 36. 

benzoic as a preservative, 65, 142. 
• butyric, 36. 

caproic, 36. 

caprylic, 36. 

carthamic, 357. 

citric, 41. 

fixed or non-volatile, determining, 
89. 

formic, 35. 

formic as a preservative, 64, 142. 

hydrofluoric as a preservative, 65, 
142. 

lactic, 41. 

malic, 41. 

nitric in water, determining, 95. 

nitrous in water, determining, 96. 

cenanthic, 36. 

phosphoric in water, determining, 
96. 

salicylic, 36. 

salicylic as a preservative, 64, 142. 

sebacic, 36. 

succinic, 36. 

sulphuric in water, determining, 96. 

sulphurous for sulphurizing casks, 
64. 

tartaric, 41. 

total, determining, 89. 

valeric, 36. 
Acidimetry, 87. 
Acids, determination of, 87. 

organic, 31. 

used in mineral water industry, 31. 

volatile, detennining, 89. 



Agriot brandy, essence for artificial, 
242. 

jam, 160. 
Aix-la-Chapelle imperial spring min- 
eral water, 120. 
Albumin, for clarifying, 71. 
Alcohol, amyl, 35. 

butyl, 35. 

ethyl, 34. 

grain, spice for, 281. 

methyl, 34. 

propyl, 35. 
Alcoholometer, 81. 
Alcohols, 31. 

higher, determining in liquor, 91. 
Aldehydes, 31, 35. 

in volatile oils, determining, 92. 
Alkanet root, 358. 
Alkannin, 358. 
Alkermes liqueur, compound liqueur 

oil for, 255. 
Almond, bitter, caramel flavor, 332. 

essence, 244. 
Alpine herbs bitters essence, 272. 
Aluminum chloride, normal solution 

of, 116. 
Altvater liqueur essence, 264. 
Ambergris tincture, 373. 
Ambre royal perfume, 373. 
Ambrosia lemonade, 196. 
Ammonia in water, determining, 95. 
Ammonium chloride, normal solution 

of, 116. 
Amyl acetate, 39. 
Analytical methods, 73. 
Anatherin mouthwash, 390. 
Angelica essence, 264. 
Angostura essence, 274. 
Aniline dyes, 360. 



407 



408 



INDEX 



Anise essence, 226. 

liqueurs/ 226. 
Anisette caramel flavor, 331. 
essence, 304. 

essence, Dutch, or Frent)by*'226. -, 
Annatto, 357. * 

dyes, 359. 
Apple basic ether, 323. 
caramel flavor, 331. 
essence, 312. 
fondant, 316. 
jam, 160. 
pomade, 393. 
wine, 156. 
Apricot basic ether, 323. 
caramel flavor, 331. 
essence, 244, 312. 
fondant, 316. 
jam, 160. 
Apollinaris salt, 119. 
Rhineland Spring, mineral water, 
121. 
Aquavit, compound liqueur oil for, 

282. 
Aquavita essence, 270. 
Areometer, 80. 
Areopicnometer, 81. 
Arnica, hair oil, 393. 
Arnotta, 357. 
Aroma oil, 162. 

oils, isolating, 177. 
Aromatic waters, 383. 
waters, essences for, 255, 261. 
waters, manufacture of from vola- 
tile oils, 253, 254. 
waters, vegetable distillates for 
making, 257. 
Aromatics, 19. 
Aromatique essence, 265. 
liqueur, compound liqueur oil for, 
277. 
Arrac, artificial, basis of, 285. 
caramel flavor, 331. 
essences, 285, 305. 
flavor, essence, 285. 
wafer, flavor, 329. 
Arsenic water, 133. 
Artificial mineral waters, 120. 



•,•» 



Ash determination, 86. 
Asparagus extract, 345. 
Aspiqj^pice extract for, 348. 

Baden-Baden (Head-Stulm), mineral 

» water, 121. 
Bakery essences, 303. 
Balm mint essence, 230. 
Banana basic ether, 323. 
caramel flavor, 331. 
essence, 308. 
fondant, 316. 
Bandolines, 394. 
Barberry basic ether, 323. 
caramel flavor, 331. 
essence, 308. 
fondant, 316. 
Barium chloride, tenthnormal solu- 
tion of, 116. 
Batavian water, vegetable distillate 

for, 259. 
Bavarian Alpine herbs liqueur, com- 
pound liqueur oil for, 257. 
herbs stomach bitters, essence, 273 
Bay rum, 395. 
Beard fixative, 396. 
Beef, spice extract for, 347. 
Beer bitters essence, 274. 
lemonade, dark (Munchener), 195. 
lemonade, light (Pilsener), 196. 
mulled, spice extract for, 348. 
Beer-like beverages, artificial, 194. 
Beers, non-alcoholic, 200. 
Benedictine caramel flavor,' 331. 
essence, 267, 303. 

liqueur, compound liqueur oil for, 
278. 
Benzaldehyde, 35. 

Benzoin lacquer for chocolates, 343. 
purified, 343. 

tincture for perfumery, 373. 
Bergamot fondant, 316. 
Berlin double bitters, compound li- 
queur oil for, 257. 
Berries, wild and cultivated, essences 

from, 180, 181. 
Bertram bitters, vegetable distillate 



INDEX 



409 



Beverages, alcoholic, composition of, 
219. 

alcoholic, with predominant taste 
of volatile flavors, 220. 

non-ialcoholic, 111, 197. 
Bicyclist lemonade, 196. 
Bilberry basic ether, 323. 

essence, black and red, 249, 308. 

fondant, 316. 

jam, 160. 

red, caramel flavor, 332. 
Bilin, Josef -Spring mineral water, 121. 
Birch hair wash, 395. 
Biscuit extract for baking, 341. 
Efishop essence, 305. 

extract for punch, 292. 
Bitter almond wafer flavor, 329. 

almond essence, 244, 315. 
Bitter liqueurs, 263. 
Bitters extract, 274. 
Black bitters essence, 276. 
Blackberry caramel flavor, 332. 

essence, 308. 

fondant, 316. 
Bleaching, 103. 

liquid, 362. 
Blue dye, 356. 

Boiling-point determination, 75. 
Bologna, spice extract for, 348. 
Bonbon spirits, 331. 
Boonecamp of Maagbitters, 270. 
Borax, normal solution of, 116. 
Bouillon spice salt, 351. 
Bouquetage, 11. 
Brahma bitters, vegetable distillate 

for, 260. 
Breton dyes; 360. 
Brilliantines, 396. 
Brines, spice extract for, 348. 
Broils, spice salt for, 351. 
Bromide salt, effervescent, 131. 

water, mineral, 133. 
Bromide-iron salt, effervescent, 131. 
Bromides used in mineral water in- 
dustry, 30. 
Brown dye, 356. 
Browning of fruit juices, 62. 
Buckingham flowers perfume, 374. 



Bulgarian mastic essence, 261 
Burdock hair oil, 393. 
Burgundy fondant, 321. 

wine punch extract, 293. 
Burnt sugar, 356. 

Butter spice extract for baking, 341. 
Butterscotch basic ether, 323. 

caramel flavor, 332. 

Cacao basic ether, 324. 

caramel flavor, 333. 

essence, brown and colorless, 252, 
314. - 

liqueur essence, 306. 

wafer flavor, 329. 
Cachous, 390. 
Calamus essence, 232. 

liqueur, compounded liqueur oil for, 
233. 
Calcium chloride, doublenormal solu- 
tion of, 116. 
Calisaya bitters essence, 276. 

tincture, 373. 
Calmuser liqueur, compounded, 232. 
Cananga water, 384. 
Cane sugar determination, 94. 
Cantharides tincture, 373. 
Capers, extract of, 345. 
Capsicum extract, 345. 
Captain water, compound liqueur oil 

for, 255. 
Capuchin liqueur essence, 274. 
Caramel, 68, 356. 

flavors, 322, 331. 
Caramels, flower flavors for, 339. 
Caraway brandy, 227. 

cordial, 227, 228. 

essence, 227. 

essence, Allasch, Russian, 227. 

essence, double, 227. 

ice, 228. 

liqueur, crystallized, 228. 
Carbonates used in mineral water in- 
dustry, 31. 
Cardinal essence, 305. 

punch extract, 293. 
Carlsbad bitters, compound lique 
oil for, m. 



410 



INDEX 



Carlsbad bitters essence, 265. 
Carmelite spirit, vegetable distillate 

for, 258. 
Carminative bitters essence, 270. 

liqueur, vegetable distillate for, 260. 
Carnation perfume, 379. 
Carpathian bitters essence, 268. 
Carrots, extract of, 345. 
Castor tincture, 373. 
Catechu, 356. 
Celery essence, 233. 

salt, 350. 

vinegar essence, 350. 
Champagne caramel flavor, 332. 
Champignon extract, 346. 
Charcoal for decolorizing liquids, 103. 

wood, for removing taste and dyes, 
72. 
Chartreuse caramel flavor, 332. 

essence, 268, 303. 

liqueur, compound liqueur oil for, 
278. 
Chemicals, inorganic, for mineral 
water industry, 30. 

reactions of most important, 97. 
Cherry basic ether, 324. 

brandies, 240. 

brandies, artificial, 241. 

brandy, basic ether, 324. 

brandy essence, 306. 

brandy, essence for artificial, 242. 

brandy fondant, 316. 

brandy caramel flavor, 332. 

brandy liqueur, 241. 

essence, black and red, 308, 309. 

flavor, genuine, 241. 

fondant, red and white, 316. 

fruit liqueur, 240. 

jam, 160. 

juice, 239. 

liqueur essences, 242. 

ratafia, 240. 

red, caramel flavor, 332. 

spice caramel flavor, 332. 

spiced, fondant, 317. 

syrup, 239. 

white, caramel flavor, 332. 
Chervil, extract of, 345. 



Chillies extract, 345. 
China pomade, 393. 
Chives extract, 346. 
Chlorophyll, 357, 358. 
Chlorides used in mineral water in- 
dustry, 30. 
Chlorine in water, determining, 95. 
Chocolate caramel flavor, 332. 

essence for Pralinee liqueur, 252. 

fondant, brown and white, 317. 

wafer flavor, 329. 
Chocolates, benzoin lacquer for, 343. 

lacquer for, 344. 
Cholera bitters, compound liqueur 
oH for, 278. 

bitters essence, 270. 
Christophelet, vegetable distillate for, 

258. 
Chypre perfume, 374. 
Cider lemonades, artificial, 192. 
Cinnamon essence, 233. 

essence, white, 233. 

flower essence, 234. 

liqueur, compounded liqueur oil 
for, 234. 
Citrus fruits, obtaining juices of, 150. 
Claret fondant, 321. 

lemonade flavor, 194. 

punch extract, 293. 

punch lemonade, 194. 
Clarifying agents, 71. 
Clove essence, 234. 

liqueur, Italian, 234. 
Coca essence, 252. 
Cocoanut caramel flavor, 333. 

essence, 313. 

fondant, 317. 
Coffee basic ether, 324. 
, caramel flavor, 333. 

essence, brown and colorless, 252, 
314. 

punch extract, 292. 

wafer flavor, 329. 
Cognac, 285. 

artificial, 288. 

caramel flavor, 333. 

"cut," 287. 

essence, 305. 



INDEX 



411 



Cognac essence, artificial, 288. 

from syrup Charentais, 287. 

manufacturing, 286. 

syrupage for, 286. 

typage, 286. 

wafer flavor, 329. 
Cola caramel flavor, 334. 

nut essence, 253, 314. 

nut fondant, 318. 
Cold distillation, 213. 
Colorimeter, 102. 
Colorimetry, 101. 
Coloring matters, 19. 

matters, physiological determina- 
tion of colors, 355. 
Colors, comparison of, 102. 
Compressed salt mixtures for table 

waters, 118. 
Confectionery essences, 303. 

lacquers, 343. 
Confections, brilliant lacquer for, 344. 
Congealing-point, 74. 
Convent bitters essence, 265. 
Copper sulphate, tenthnormal solu- 
tion of, 116. 
Corn extract, warm, 291. 

whiskey essence, 305. 
Cosmetic essences, 371, 389. 
Cough caramels essence, 307. 

herbs essence, 307. 
Country sausage spice salt, 351. 
Court water, 383. 
Cranberry jam, 160. 
Cream confections, glaze lacquer for, 
344. 

wafer flavor, 330. 
Creams, skin, perfumes for, 392. 
Crystal spring lemonade, 196. 
Culinary essences, 303, 344. 

spice extract compounds, 347. 
Cumarin, 43. 

solution for perfumery, 373. 
Curacao caramel flavor, 333. 

essence, 304. 

wafer flavor, 330. 
Curcuma, 357. 
Currant basic ether, 324. 

black, caramel flavor, 333. 



Currant essence, colorless, 309. 

essence, red or black, 309. 

fondant, black, red, and white, 317. 

jam, 160. 

red, caramel flavor, 333. 
Curry spice extract, 348. 
Cyclamen perfume, 374. 

Damson brandy, artificial, essence 

for, 243. 
Dandruff hair wash, 396. 
Danzig Baal water, vegetable dis- 
tillate for, 258. 

cordial drops, compound liqueur 
oil for, 257. 

cordial liqueur, compound liqueur 
oil for, 255. 

cordial, vegetable distillate for, 
258, 260. 

gold water, compound liqueur oil 
for, 255. 

golden water, vegetable distillate 
for, 258. 
Date basic ether, 324. 

caramel flavor, 333. 

essence, 312. 

fondant, 317. 
Daubitz essence, 274. 
Decolorizing liquids, 103, 362. 
Digestion, 214. 

Diseases of fermented liquids, 61. 
Distillation, dry (destructive), 58. 

fractional, 57. 

principles of, 55. 

residue determination, 86. 
Divinity water, vegetable distillate 

for, 259. 
Doctor bitters essence, 270. 
Doublenormal salt solutions, 116. 
Drugs, aromatic bitter, 180. 

aromatic, non-bitter, 18. 

aromatic, peppery, 19. 

aromatic, slightly bitter, 18. 

as raw materials for tastes, 15. 

collection and preparation of, 15. 

constituents of, 17. 

general methods of extracting, 263. 

non-aromatic, bitter, 18. 



412 



INDEX 



Drugs, table of, according to their 
specific taste, 18. 

Dry perfumes, 386. 

Dutch stomach bitters essence, 273. 

Dyes, fat-soluble vegetable, manu- 
facture of, 358. 
vegetable, 356. 

Eau de Batave, vegetable distillate 

for, 259. 
de Botot mouthwash, 390. 
de Bouquet, vegetable distillate for, 

259. 
Celeste, compound liqueur oil for, 

256. 
de Cologne, 383, 384. 
de Fantaisie, vegetable distillate 

for, 259. 
des Favorites, compound liqueur 

oil for, 256. 
de la C6te, compound liqueur oil 

for, 256. 
de Paradise, vegetable distillate 

for, 259. 
de Portugal, vegetable distillate for 

259. 
de quinine, 395. 
de Sultan, vegetable distillate for, 

259. 
de Vie dc Lavende Ambree, 385. 
divine, vegetable distillate for, 

259. 
d'Orient, vegetable distillate for 

259. 
Effervescent salts, 131. 
waters, acid and alkaline, 130, 131, 

132. 
Eger, Franzensbrunnen, mineral wa- 
ter, 122. 
Egg-cognac, 288. 

-cognac, artificial, 289. 
-cream liqueur, 289. 
Elder flower type fixative base, 339. 
Electoral bitters, compound liqueur 

oil for, 278. 
stomach bitters, essence, 271. 
Elixir ad iongam vitam, essence, 
274. 



Elixir de Spaa, compound liqueur oil 
for, 257. 

of long life, 274. 
Emser Kraenchen mineral water, 

122. 
Enfleurage, 371. 

English bitters, compound liqueur 
oil for, 278. 

bitters, essence, 268. 

fondant, 317. 

wafer flavor, 330. 
Enzymes, 59. 

Eskubak, vegetable distillate for, 259. 
"Esprit," 264. 
Ess bouquet perfume, 374. 
Essence absinthe, French or German, 
231. 

almond (bitter), 244, 315. 

almond (bitter), artificial, 189. 

Alpine herbs bitters, 272. 

Altvater liqueur, 264. 

angelica, 264. 

angostura, 274. 

anise, 220. 

anisette, 304. 

anisette, Dutch, 226. 

apple, 183, 312. 

apple cider, 192. 

apricot, 183, 244, 312. 

apricot cider, 193. 

aquavita, 270. 

aromatique, 265. 

arrac, 305. 

arrac flavor, 285. 

arrac punch, non-alcoholic, 198. 

artificial, for plum, damson, or 
sloe brandy, 243. 

artificial Sliwowitz, 243. 

balm mint, 230. 

banana, 186, 308. 

Barbadoes liqueur, 222. 

barberry, 308. 

Bavarian herbs stomach bitten, 
273. 

beer bitters, 274. 

Benedictine, 267, 303. 

bergamot liqueur, 222. 

YtitaxTh black or red, 249, 308. 



413 



e Bishop, SOS. 
Bishop-liqueur, 222. 
black bitters, 276. 
black cherry, 308. 
blackberry, 182, 308. 



o("i 



*"), 1 



cacao, brown or colorless, 252, 314. 

cacao liqueur, 306. 

calamus, 232. 

caraway, 227. 

caraway, double, 227. 

Carlsbad bitters, 265. 

calisaya bitters, 276. 

capuchin liqueur, 274. 

cardinal, 305. 

carminative bitters, 270. 

Carpathian bitters, 268. 

celery, 187, 233. 

champagne lemonade, 193. 

champagne lemonade a la Jac- 

queron Fils, 103. 
champagne lemonade a la Veuve 

Cliquot, 193. 
Chartreuse, 268, 303. 
cherry, 183. 

cherry, black or red, 308, 309. 
cherry brandy, 306. 
chocolate, 189. 

chocolate for Ptalinee liqueur, 252. 
cholera bitters, 270. 
cinnamon, 233. 

i, white, 233. 
n flower, 234. 
citrus fruits, 184. 
Civilaekt champagne lemonade, 

193. 
claret, 192. 

claret punch, non-alcoholic, 199. 
clove, 234. 
coca, 252. 
cocoanut, 313. 
coffee, 189. 

coffee, brown or colorless, 252, 314. 
coffee punch, non-alcoholic, 199. 
cognac, 305. 
cognac, artificial, 288. 
cognac punch, non-alcoholic, 199. 
coU., 189, 253, 314. 



Essence convent bitters, 265. 

corn whisky, 305. 

cough caramels, 307. 

cough herbs, 307. 

cucumber, 186. 

curacao, 304. 

Curasao liqueur, Dutch or French, 
222. 

currant, 182, 191. 

currant, red or black, 309. 

currant cider, 193. 

currant, colorless, 309. 

date, 312. 

Daubitz, 274. 

doctor bitters, 270. 

Dutch stomach bitters, 273. 

electoral stomach bitters, 271. 

elixir ad longam vitam, 274, 

English bitters, 268. 

eucalyptus, 307, 315. 

eucalyptus extract, 307. 

fennel, 226. 

femet branca, 271. 

fever drops, 276. 

fig, 312. 

fine bitters, 268. 

fruit punch, non-alcoholic, 199. 

Geneva, Dutch, 229. 

genever, 304. 

giant bitters, 277. 

gin, Irish, 229. 

ginger, 187, 234, 314. 

ginger, colorless, 235. 

ginger liqueur, 306. 

ginger, stomachic, 235. 

gooseberry, 182, 309. 
' grape, 312. 

green bitters, 277. 

green gage, 310. 

grenadine, 190. 

half om half, 265. 

Hamburg bitters, 276. 

Hartz bitters, 265. 

hazel nut, 313. 

Helgoland bitten, 276 

hip, 312. 

honey, 190. 

hop, 187, 314. 



414 



INDEX 



Essence hop bitters, 275. 
hops and malt, 187. 
hunt bitters, 265. 
hyssop, 231. 
Iceland moss, 307. 
imperial punch, non-alcoholic, 200. 
Indian bitters, 275. 
Italian bitters, 266. 
Iva bitters, 266. 
Ivan bitters, 275. 
juniper, 228. 
Kischineff, 266. 
lemon, 185, 312. 
lemon liqueur, 222. 
lime, 185, 191, 312. 
macaroon, 245. 
Malakoff, 266. 
malt, 187, 194, 314. 
Malta Knights' bitters, 271. 
mandarin liqueur, 223. 
maraschino, 304. 
marshmallow root, 307. 
mastic, Bulgarian or Turkish, 261 
melon, 186, 309. 
Messina fruit, 191. 
mirabelle, 310. 
mogadore, 266. 
Moreau bitters, 269. 
mountain herbs for herb caramel, 

304. 
muscade bitters, 271. 
mulberry, 310. 

mulled punch, non-alcoholic, 199. 
nectarine, 191. 
Nelson bitters, 275. 
onion extract, 307. 
orange, bitter and sweet, 185, 312. 
orange (bitter) liqueur from drugs 

or fresh peels, 223. 
orange, mandarin, 185. 
orange (sweet) liqueur, 223. 
orris root, 315. 
peach, 183, 245, 313. 
peach cider, 193. 
pear, 184, 313. 
pear liqueur, 306. 
Peau d'Espagne, 388. 
peppermint, 230. 



Essence peppermint, double, 230. 
persico, 245, 305. 
pimpinella, 307. 
pine needle, 307, 315. 
pineapple, 185, 249, 310. 
pistachio nut, 313. 
plantain, 307. 
plum, 183, 313. 
podbipie'ta, 275. 
Polish bitters, 276. 
pomegranate, 186. 
poppy flower, 307. 
port wine, 192. 
prunelle, 313. 
quince, 184, 310. 
radish extract, 307. 
raspberry, 181. 

raspberry, colorless or red, 310. 
ratafia of cherry, 306. 
ratafia of raspberry, 306. 
rhubarb, 187. 
root bitters, 276. 
rose, 190. 
rose liqueur, 261. 
rostopschin, 226. 
royal bitters, 267. 
rum filling, 305. 
rum flavor, 284. 
rum punch, 305. 
rum punch, non-alcoholic, 200. 
Samaritan bitters, 276. 
sarepta, 267. 
sarsaparilla, 190. 
8corzonera, 307. 
seamen's bitters, 276. 
Spanish bitters, 269. 
spice bitters, 269. 
spiced lemon liqueur, 222. 
star anise, 226. 
Steinhaeger, 229. 
stomach bitters, 273. 
strawberry, 181. 
strawberry, colorless, 311. 
strawberry, red, 309, 310. 
Swedish, old, 272. 
Swedish punch, 305. 
Swedish punch, non-alcoholic, 200. 
SroSaa M$ine herbs, 304. 



INDEX 415 


Swiss herb stomachic bitters, 273. 


Ethyl acetate, 39. 


tangerine, 312. 


ether, 40. 


tea, 189, 253, 315 


formate, 39. 


tea, colorless, 315. 


nitrite, 40. 


tutti-frutti. 191. 


Euoalyptus caramel flavor, 333. 


usquebaugh, 267. 


essence, 307, 315. 


vanilla, 190, 236, 315. 


extract essence, 307. 


vanilla liqueur, 306. 


flavor for toothpaste, 391. 


vanillin, 236. 


flavor for toothpowder, 391. 


vanillin, colorless, 316. 


mouthwash, 390. 


violet, 190. 


spray, 389. 


violet liqueur, 261. 


Kx] inking fruits, etc., 47. 


walnut, 245, 246, 304, 313. 


Extent of ut disability, definition of, 


white wine, 192. 


165. 


wild bruit, 249. 


Extract soap root as foam producer, 


woodruff, 187, 251. 


168. 


woodruff, artificial, 188, 251. 


Extraction or drugs, 51. 


Essences, arrac, 285. 


methods, 52. 


basic, perfumery, 372. 


methods in manufacturing liquors, 


cherry liqueur, 242. 


214. 


confectionery, 303. 


Extractives, 51. 


cosmetic, 371, 389. 


deternii nation, 84. 


culinary, 344. 


Extracts, alcoholic, 54. 


for aromatic waters, 261. 


dry, 51. 


fur champagne lemonades, arti- 


inspissated, 51. 


ficial, 193. 


resinous, for perfumery, 373 


for cough drops, 306. 


standard, 165. 


for lemonades and non-alcoholic 


triple, manufacture of, 372. 


beverages, 160. 




for medicinal confections, 300. 


Fachinger table water, 122. 


from wild berries, 180. 


Fat as a preservative of beverages, 


mixed, for aromatic waters, 255. 


64. 


non-alcoholic punch, 198. 


powder, 392. 


oE peels of citrus fruits, 311. 


Faults of fermented liquids, 61. 


rum. 282. 


Fermentation, 58. 


standard, 165. 


acetous, 61. 


Ester content of volatile oils, deter- 


disturbances of, 60. 


mining, 89. 


products of, 60. 


Esters, 31. 


Ferments, 58. 


chemical reaction showing forma- 


Fernet branca, essence, 271. 


tion of. 38. 


Fever drops, essence, 276. 


determination of, 89, 


Fig caramel flavor, 333. 


table of most important, 37. 


essence, 312. 


Ether acetio, 39. 


fondant, 317. 


amylic, 39. 


Filtration of liquids, 69. 


formic, 39. 


Fine bitters, compound liqueur oil for. 


sulphuric, 40. 


278. 


Ethers, flower flavors for, 339. 


Fining agents, 71. 



416 



INDEX 



Fish, boiled and fried, spice extract 

for, 347. 
Fixage, 11. 
Fixers, 163. 
Flavor oil, 162. 
Florida water, 103, 395. 
Floral bouquet perfume, 373. 
Flower extracts, manufacturing, 371. 

flavors for fondants, caramels and 
ethers, 339. 

hair oil, 393. 

pomades, 371, 393. 
Fluid fruits, 147. 
Foam extract, licorice, 169. 

producers, 167. 
Fondant essences, floral, artificial, 
339. 

flavors, 315. 

ethers, floral, artificial, 339. 
Fondants, flower flavors for, 339. 
Forced meats, spice extract for, 347. 
Formaldehyde, 35. 
Fortifiers, artificial, 11. 
Four-thieves vinegar, 386. 
Fowl, spice extract for, 347. 
Frangipanni perfume, 374. 
Franzensbad (salt-spring), mineral 

water, 123. 
Freezing mixtures, 77. 
Freezing-point, 73. 
French berries, 356. 
Friedrichshail bitter water, 123. 
Fruit beverages, fresh-, 147. 

brandies, 238. 

champagnes, 156. 

cup, cold duck, 192. 

cup, Swedish, 191. 

cups, artificial, 191. 

cups, champagne, 191. 

essences, distillation without a 
vacuum in manufacturing, 175. 

essences, manufacturing, 169. 

essences, special methods for mak- 
ing, 180. 

essences, vacuum distillation in 
manufacturing, 169. 

essences, working up ; n 

xnanufacturing, 17" 



Fruit ethers, method of making, 322. 
flavor, non-alcoholic, 198. 
flavor, transfer of to essences, 160. 
flavors, artificial, 190. 
flavors, artificial, fortifying and 

fixing, 163. 
flavors, isolating, 177. 
honey wines, composition of, 157. 
juices, browning of, 62. 
juices, concentration of, 146. 
juices, content of sugar and acid, 

138. 
juices, employment of for making 

natural lemonades and fresh- 

fruit beverages, 149. 
juices, manufacture of, 138. 
juices, remedies for spoiling of, 141. 
juices, removing bitterness of, 62. 
juices, removing diseases and faults 

of, 62. 
juices, removing moldy taste of, 62. 
juices, removing mousy flavor of, 

62. 
juices, sterilization of, 142. 
lemonades, content of acid and 

coloring, 201. 
liqueurs, 238. 

liqueurs, table of composition, 250. 
punch extracts, 291. 
spirits, 322, 331. 
syrups, natural, preparing, 144. 
vinegar essence, 350. 
wines, composition of, 156. 
wines, manufacturing, 154. 
Fruit-mead, 157. 
Fruits and fruit juices, constituents 

of, 135. 
as raw materials for tastes, 15. 
average percentage composition of, 

137. 
Fumigants, 389. 
Fumigating essence, 389. 

vinegar, 389. 
Fusel oil, determining in liquor, 91. 
oil, raw, fractionation of, 33. 

Game, spice extract for, 347. 
epice salt for, 351. 



INDEX 



417 



Gaultheria perfume, 375. 
Geisha perfume, 375. 
Gelatin, for clarifying, 72. 
Geneva essence, Dutch, 229. 
Genever essence, 304. 
Giant bitters, essence, 277. 
Gin essence, Irish, 229. 
Ginger basic ether, 325. 

beer extract, 195. 

essence, 234, 314. 

essence, colorless, 235. 

essence, stomachic, 235. 

liqueur, compounded liqueur for, 
235. 

liqueur essence, 306. 
Gingerbread extract for baking, 
341. 

lacquer, 344. 
Glaze flavor for baking, 342. 
Glowing punch extract, 293. 

punch, flavor essence for, 293 

wine punch extract, 293. 
Glycerin cream, 392. 
Glycinea perfume, 375. 
Gooseberry basic ether, 324. 

caramel flavor, 333. 

essence, 309. 

fondant, 317. 
Goulash, spice extract for, 347. 
Guard perfume, 375. 
Grape basic ether, 325. 

caramel flavor, 334. 

essence, 312. 

fondant, 317. 
Greek bitters, vegetable distillate for, 

260. 
Green bitters, essence, 277. 

dye, 357. 

gage basic ether, 327. 

gage caramel flavor, 337. 

gage essence, 310. 

gage fondant, 320. 
Grenadine basic ether, 325. 

caramel flavor, 334. 

fondant, 318. 

liqueur, 248. 

grog, 290. 

extracts, 291. 



Groseille liqueur, 249. 
Gruiten absynth bitters, 271. 

Hair creams, 394. 

oil perfumes, 392. 

washes, 394. 
Half om half essence, 265. 
Hamburg bitters essence, 275. 
Handkerchief perfumes, 373. 
Hardness, temporary in water, deter- 
mining, 97. 

total and permanent, in water, 96. 
Hartz bitters essence, 265. 
Harzer sauerbrunnen, 118. 

sauerbrunnen mineral water, 123. 

sazerbrunnen salts, 119. 
Hausmacher sausage, spice extract 

for, 348. 
Hazelnut caramel flavor, 334. 

essence, 313. 

fondant, 318. 
Heat ot fusion, 73. 
Helgoland bitters essence, 275. 
Heliotrope perfume, 375. 

perfume for tablets, 387. 

sachet, 388. 
Heliotropin solution for perfumery, 

373. 
Hip basic ether, 325. 

caramel flavor, 334. 

essence, 312. 

fondant, 318. 

jam, 160. 
Honey, artificial, 67. 

basic ether, 325. 

caramel flavor, 334 

fondant, 318. 

water, 395. 

wine, 156. 
Honeycomb extract for baking, 342. 
Honeysuckle perfume, 375. 
Hop basic ether, 325. 

bitters essence, 275. 

caramel flavor, 334. 

essence, 314. 
Hovenia perfume, 375. 
Huckleberry cartund fawK,^Rl. 

fondant, &1Q. 



418 



INDEX 



Hungarian water, 384. 
Hunt bitters essence, 265. 
bitters, compound liqueur oil for, 
279. 
Huntsman's nosegay perfume, 375. 
Hunyadi-Janos mineral water, 124. 
Hyacinth perfume, 376. 
Hydrochloric acid, normal, 87. 
Hydrostatic balance, 79. 
Hyssop essence, 231. 

Ice hair wash, 395. 

pomade, 393. 
Ice-cream fondant, 318. 

wafer flavor, 330. 
Iceland moss essence, 307. 
Imperial punch extract, 293. 
Indian bitters essence, 275. 

bouquet perfume, 376. 
Indigo, 356. 
Indigocarmine, 356. 
Ingredient stomach bitters, 271. 
Invert sugar determination, 93. 
Iodides used in mineral water indus- 
try, 30. 
Iodine water, 134. 
Iron lemonade extract, 197. 

sulphate, normal solution of, 116. 

water, 133. 
Isinglass, for clarifying, 72. 
Italian bitters essence, 266. 
Iva bitters essence, 266, 275. 

Jams, manufacture of, 158. 
Jarcebinka, 248. 
Jasmine perfume, 376. 
Jellies, manufacture of, 158. 
Jockey club perfume, 376. 
Jonquille perfume, 376. 
Juices from dried fruits^ 157. 

of citrus fruits, obtaining, 150. 
Juniper brandy, compounded li- 
queur oil for, 229. 

essence, 228. 

Kaskantschi punch extract, 292. 
K&rJsbad, Muhlbrunnen, mineral 
water, 124. 



Ki-Loe perfume, 376. 
Kirschwasser, 240. 
Kischineff essence, 266. 
Kiss-me-quick perfume, 376. 
Kissingen, Rakoczi, mineral water, 

124. 
Kontuszowska, compound liqueur oil 

for, 257. 
Krambambuli, vegetable distillate 

for, 260. 
Kujawian stomach drops, 271. 

Lacquers, confectionery, 343. 
Lactic fermentation, 61. 
Lanolin cream, 392. 
La prunelle, 243. 
Lavender smelling salts, 388. 

water, 385. 

water, double, 385. 

water, with ambergris, 385. 
Lemon basic ether, 325. 

caramel flavor, 334. 

essence, 312. 

fondant, 318. 

juice, 152. 

juice, clarifying, 152. 

juice, obtaining, 150. 

spice extract, 341. 

spice fondant, 318. 
Lemonade extract, iron, 197. 
Lemonades, effervescent, cause of 
turbidity of, 166. 

effervescent, composition of, 164. 

fancy, 196. 

for diabetics, 135. 

lactic acid, 197. 

natural, 147. 

tables of content of acid and color- 
ing, 201. 
Levico iron-arsenic spring mineral 

water, 125. 
Licorice foam extract, 169. 
Lime basic ether, 325. 

caramel flavor, 334. 

essence, 312. 

fondant, 318. 
Lilac cologne, 384. 

perfume, 376, 377. 



INDEX 



419 



Lilac perfume for tablets, 387. 

sachet, 388. 

toilet water, 385. 

Turkish perfume, 377. 
lily perfume, 377. 

of the valley cologne, 384. 

of the valley perfume, 377. 

of the valley perfume for tablets, 
388. 

of the valley toilet water, 385. 
Linden flowers perfume, 377. 
Liqueur absinthe, French, German 
and Swiss, 232. 

calmuser, compounded, 232. 

oils, 218. 
Liqueurs, anise, 226. 

bitter, 263. 

bitter, table of composition of, 270. 

fruit, 238. 

manufacture of, 211. 

spiced, methods of making, 224, 
225. 

table of composition of various, 
236. 
Liquid raffinade, 66. 
Liquids, fermented, diseases and 

faults of, 61. 
Liquors, artificial, 281. 

manufacture of, 211. 

storing and ageing, 220. 
Lisboa water, 385. 
Lithia water, 134. 
Lithia-soda water, 134. 
Lithium carbonate, tenthnormal solu- 
tion of, 116. 

chloride, tenthnormal solution of, 
116. 

salt, effervescent, 132. 
Liver sausage spice salt, 352. 

Macaroon essence, 245. 

extract for baking, 342. 

fondant, 318. 
Macassar hair oil, 393. 
Maceration, 214. 
Madeira fondant, 321. 
Magnesia water, 134. 

water, effervescent, 131. 



Magnesium chloride, doublenormal 
solution of, 116. 

citrate salt, effervescent, 132. 

sulphate, doublenormal solution of, 
116. 
Magnolia perfume, 377. 
Malaga fondant, 321. 
Malakoff essence, 266. 
Mallow coloring matter, 357. 
Malt essence, 314. 

basic ether, 325. 

caramel flavor, 334. 

lemonade, 195. 

vinegar essence, 350. 
Malta Knights' bitters essence, 271. 
Manganese sulphate, normal solu- 
tion of, 116. 
Maraschino caramel flavor, 335. 

compounded liqueur oil for, 246. 

di Zara, 241. 

essence, 304. 
• essence for artificial, 242.~ 

lemonade, 196. 

wafer flavor, 330. 
Marchpane lacquer, 344. 

lemonade, 196. 
MarienbadJ Kreuzbrunnen, mineral 

water, 125. 
Marmalades, manufacture of, 158. 
Marrow pomade, 393. 
Marshmallow root essence, 307. 
Mastic essence, Bulgarian and Turk- 
ish, 261. 
Mead, 156. 

lemonade, 195. 
Meat spice extracts, 347. 

spice salts, 350. 
Medoc liqueur, compound liqueur oil 

for, 255. 
Melangebits extract for baking, 342. 
Melon basic ether, 326. 

caramel flavor, 335. 

essence, 309. 

fondant, 318. 
Melting-point, 73. 

determination, 75. 
Mignonette perfume, 380. 
Milk caramel basic ether, 326. 



420 



INDEX 



Milk caramel flavor, 335. 

punch extract, 292. 

skimmed, for clarifying, 71. 
Millefleurs perfume, 377. 
Mimosa perfume, 378. 
Mineral water industry, 111. 

water salts, 115. 

water salts, normal solutions of, 
115. 

waters, artificial, 120. 

waters, natural and artificial, 114. 
Mirabelle basic ether, 320. 

caramel flavor, 335. 

essence, 310. 

fondant, 319. 
Mixtures, 49. 

Mock turtle, spice extract for, 347. 
Mogadore essence, 266. 
Moisture determination in dry sub- 
stances, 84. 
Moldy taste, removing, 62. 
Moreau bitters essence, 269. 
Morel extract, 346. 

fondant, 319. 
Mortadella, spice extract for, 348. 
Moss rose perfume, 380. 
Mountain herbs essence for herb 

caramel, 304. 
Mouseline perfume, 378. 
Mouthpearl fondant, 319. 
Mouthwashes, 390. 
Mulberry basic ether, 326. 

caramel flavor, 335. 

essence, 310. 

fondant, 319. 
Munich Railway liqueur, compound 

liqueur oil for, 255. 
Muscade bitters essence, 272. 
Muscatel grape fondant, 318. 

fondant, 321. 

lemonade flavor, 194. 
Mushroom extract, 346. 
Musk, artificial, solution for per- 
fumery, 373. 

perfume, 378. 

tincture, 373. 
Mustache fixative, 396. 
Mustard, spice extract for, 348, 349. 



Mustard-pickles spice extract, 349. 
Mutton, spice extract for, 347. 
Myrte perfume, 378. 

Nail powder, perfume for, 392. 
Nalewka, compound liqueur oil for, 

246. 
Naphthol hair wash, 395. 
Narcisse perfume, 378. 
National spring salt, 119. 
Navy's nosegay perfume, 378. 
Nectar caramel flavor, 335. 

fondant, 319. 

lemonade flavor, 194. 

wafer flavor, 330. 
Nectarine caramel flavor, 335. 

fondant, 319. 
Nelson bitters essence, 275. 
Neuenahr, Sprudel, mineral water, 

125. 
New mown hay perfume, 378. 
Nieder selters mineral water, 126. 
Nougat, caramel flavor, 335. 

fondant, 319. 

wafer flavor, 330. 

(Enocyanin, 357. 

Oil, as a preservative of beverages, 64. 
compound liqueur, for aromatique 

liqueur, 277. 
compound liqueur, for Bavarian 

Alpine herbs liqueur, 257. 
compound liqueur, for Benedictine 

liqueur, 278. 
compounded for bergamot liqueur, 

223. 
compound liqueur, for Berlin dou- 
ble bitters, 257. 
compounded liqueur, for bitter 

orange liqueur, 224. 
compounded liqueur, for calamus 

liqueur, 233. 
compounded liqueur, for caraway 

cordial, 227, 228. 
compounded liqueur, for Carlsbad 

bitters, 278. 
compounded liqueur, for celery 

liqueur, 233. 



421 



Oi, 



in? 

ior 
oompaaDdtd itr dmcufr 



r. iar 
and Frsm& cna^ao Lgnsur. 



oampoonded Bquear. 5v iJuvi 



cnmpannd bquear. for *»*cMnJ 

bitten. 27%. 
coHi p oi i i fc d liqueur, for Eiirir de 



«. 



oompoond liqueur, for Knirit^i 

tatters. 278. 
compound liqueur, far fine betters. 

278. 
compounded liqueur, for French 

absinthe liqueur. 232. 
compounded liqueur, for French 

anisette, 227. 
compounded Geneva liqueur, 229. 
compounded liqueur, for German 

absinthe liqueur, 232. 
compound liqueur, for Hunt bit- 

ten, 279. 
compounded liqueur for juniper 

brandy, 229. 
compound liqueur, for Kontus- 

sowska, 257. 
compounded, for lemon liqueur, 

223. 
compounded liqueur, for mandarin 

liqueur, 224. 
compounded liqueur, for rose li- 
queur, 261. 
compound liqueur, for Spanish 

bitters, 279. 
compounded, for spiced lemon 

liqueur, 224. 
compounded liqueur, for sweet 

orange liqueur, 224. 
' compounded liqueur, for Swiaa 

absinthe, 232. 



•-•l. ranoromz. uounr. icr *inse son*- 

MS. 

'lur-Kincit? r 

vufi. rumpnuxiapd. z:e 

CTTTrtinciafi. far ew&wav bever- 



TC«ic»:«aiiaei fcr li que^jrs cherry. 
rcn«r NTTKCi'da, jc um. and *ral- 
ii=: . 2*k 

;«er*E»»3£a&. meshoi of obtaining, 
27. 

i«rp«ttje95. table of solubility in 
&k>:£*:d« of various decrees, 29. 

voiatiK alcoholic distillation of. 2S. 

Tcda;ile„ compounded. 2 IS. 

volatile, composition of, 22. 

volatile, determining the quality of, 
26. 

volatile, distillation and rectifica- 
tion. 20. 

volatile, expression of, 20. 

volatile, extraction, 22. 

volatile, for making aromatic wa- 
ters, 255. 

volatile, general method* of exami- 
nation, 23. 

volatile, table of physical standard* 
of, 25. 

volatile, table of solubility in 
alcohols of various degrees, 20. 
Old Swedish essence, 272. 
Onion extract, 340. 

extract essence, 307. 

sausage spice salt, 3.V2. 
Opoponax perfume, 879. 
Orange basic ether, bitter and wwoot, 
326. 

bitter, caramel flavor, M.Y 

essence, bitter nnd nwect, l\V2, 

flower i>orfumo, 37S. 

fondnnt, bitter and n\voet, III 9. 

sweet, caramel flavor, Il.'lft. 
Orchidee |M»rfuiiHS 370. 
Organic, mutter in water, determining, 

95. 
Orgeat fondant, 319. 



422 



INDEX 



Oriental lemonade, 197. 

Original product, definition of, 10. 

Orlean, 357. 

Orris basic ether, 326. 

caramel flavor, 335. 

fondant, 320. ~" 

root essence, 315. • 

root tincture, 373. 
Overproof, definition of, 82. 

Parfait d' Amour, compound liqueur 
oil for, 256. 

d* Amour, vegetable distillate for, 
259. 
Paste dyes, 360. 
Pastry extract for baking, 342. 
Patchouly perfume, 379. 
Patties, spice extract for, 347. 
Peach basic ether, 326. 

caramel flavor, 335. 

essence, 245, 313. 

fondant, 320. 

jam, 160. 
Pear basic ether, 327. 

caramel flavor, 336. 

essence, 313. 

essences, 247. 

fondant, 320. 

liqueur essence, 306. 
Peau d'Espagne, 388. 

d'Espagne perfume, 379. 
Peony perfume, 379. 
Pepper spice salt, 350. 
Peppermint essence, 230. 

essence, double, 230. 

flavor for toothpaste, 391. 
Percolation, 52, 214. 
Perfumery, 371. 

essences, basic, 372. 
Perfumes, dry, 386. 
Pernambuco wood, 357. 
Persico caramel flavor, 336. 

compound liqueur oil for, 247. 

essence, 245, 305. 
Peru balsam tincture for perfumery, 

373. 
Phenol determination, 93. 
Philodermin hair wash, 395. 



Piccalilli spice extract, 349. 
Pickle spice salts, 352. 
Pickled-spice extracts, 348. 
Pickles, spice extracts for, 348. 
Pickling, spice extract for, 347. 
Picnometer, 79. 
Pimpinella essence, 307. 
Pineapple basic ether, 327. 

caramel flavor, 336. 

essence, 249, 310. 

fondant, 320. 
Pine needle caramel flavor, 336. 

needle essence, 307, 315. 

needle spray, 389. 
Pinks perfume, 379. 
Pistachio basic ether, 327. 

nut caramel flavor, 336. 

nut essence, 313. 

nut fondant, 320. 
Plantain essence, 307. 
Plum basic ether, 327. 

brandy, artificial, essence for, 243. 

caramel flavor, 336. 

essence, 313. 

fondant, 320. 

jam, 160. 

pudding extract for baking, 842. 
Podbipi6ta essence, 275. 
Polish bitters essence, 276. 
Pomades, flower, 371. 
Pommade Hongroise, 396. 

oil, 393. 

perfume oils, 393. 
Pomril, 157. 

Poppy flower essence, 307. 
Pork, spice extract for, 347. 
Porret extract, 346. 
Port fondant, 322. 
Portugal water, 385. 

water, vegetable distillate for, 259. 
Potable waters, investigating, 95. 
Potassium carbonate, normal solu- 
tion of, 116. 

chloride, normal solution of, 116. 

sulphate, normal solution of, 116. 
Potted meats, bouillon spice salt for, 

351. 
Preservative methods, 68. 



423 



Preserving, 62. 
Presses for expressing, 48, 
Printen extract for baking, 342. 
Proof -spirit, strength of, 82. 
Prunelle caramel flavor, 336. 

essence, 313. 

fondant, 320. 
Punch caramel flavor, 336. 

extracts, 291. 

extracts, fruit, 291. 

extracts, non-alcoholic, 198. 

lemonades, artificial, 194. 

spiced flavor for, 291. 

wafer flavor, 331. 
Punches, 290. 

fancy, 292. 
Pyrmont mineral water, 126. 

Queen of the night perfume, 379. 

Victoria perfume, 380. 
Quince basic ether, 327. 

caramel flavor, 336. 

essence, 310. 

fondant, 320. 
Quinoeol mouthwash, 390. 
Quodlibet caramel flavor, 336. 

Radish extract essence, 307. 
Ragouts, spice extract for, 347. 
Raki, 261. 
Raspberry basic ether, 327. 

caramel flavor, 336. 

distillate, 247. 

essence, colorless or red, 310. 

flavor from fruit juice, 248. 

fondant, 320. 

jam, 160. 

liqueurs, 248. 

spirit, 247. 
Ratafia caramel flavor, 337. 

of cherry essence, 306. 

of raspberry essence, 306. 
Ratafias, 238. 
Rectification, 57. 
Red dye, 357. 
Refining, 11. 
Reseda perfume, 380. 
Rhine wine fondant, 322. 



Rhubarb wine, 156. 

Bice powder, 392. 

Riga balsam, compound liqueur oil 

for, 256. 
Roasts, spice salt for, 351. 
Rock drops caramel flavor, 337. 
Rondelctia perfume, 380. 
Room sprays, 389. 
Root bitters essence, 276. 
Ropiness, 61. 
Rose cologne, 384. 

eglantine perfume, 380. 

liqueur, compound oil for, 261. 

liqueur, essence for, 261. 

Marcchal Noel perfume, 380. 

perfume, 380. 

sachet, 388. 

toilet vinegar, 386. 

toilet water, 385. 
Rosoglio liqueur, compounded liqueur 
oil for, 234. 

liqueur essence, 234. 
Rostopechin, compounded liqueur oil 
for, 227. 

essence, 226. 
Royal bitters essence, 267. 

horaeguard bouquet perfume, 381. 

nosegay perfume, 381. 

punch extract, 292. 
Rum, artificial, 285. 

artificial, basis for, 284. 

caramel flavor, 337. 

coloring, 68, 356. 



ether, concentrated, 283. 
ether, manufacture of, 282. 
filling essence, 305. 
flavor essence, 284. 
punch essence, 305. 
wafer flavor, 331. 
Russian leather perfume, 374. 

Saccharin, detection of, 101. 
lemonades for diabetics, 135. 

Sachets, 387. 
Safflower, 366, 357. 
Saffron, 357. 
extract, 345. 



424 



INDEX 



Salami, spice extract for, 348. 
Salol mouthwash, 390. 
Salt-pickle spice extract, 349. 

spice salt, 352. 
Salzbrunnen, Crown-Spring mineral 

water, 127. 
Salz8chlirf, Bonifacius Spring mineral 

water, 127. 
Samaritan bitters essence, 276. 
Santal wood, 357. 
Saponification number, 90. 
Sarepta essence, 207. 
Sauces, piquant, spice extract for, 

348. 
Sausage spice extract, 348. 

spice salt, 351. 
Scorzonera essence, 307. 
Seamen's bitters essence, 276. 
Selters water, 117. 

salt, 119. 
Sergeant liqueur, compound liqueur 

oil for, 256. 
Shallots extract, 346. 
Shampoo hair wash, 395. 
Shellac, purifier, 343. 
Shellfish, spice extract for, 347, 
Sherry fondant, 322. 
Silica-calcium-iron water, 134. 
Skin creams, 392. 
Sloe brandy, artificial, essence for, 

243. 
Sliwowitz, compound liqueur oil for, 
246. 

essence for artificial, 243. 
Smelling salts, 388. 
Smoked beef, spice extract for, 347. 

sausage spice salt, 351. 
Soap root extract as foam producer, 

168. 
Soaps, perfumes for, 397-405. 
Soda water, 118. 

Soden, Taunus, mineral water, 128. 
Sodium arsenate, tenthnormal solu- 
tion of, 116. 

biborate, normal solution of, 116. 

bromide, normal solution of, 116. 

carbonate, doublenormal solution 
of, 116. 



Sodium chloride, doublenormal solu- 
tion of, 116. 

iodide, normal solution of, 116. 

nitrate, normal solution of, 116. 

phosphate, normal solution of, 116. 

silicate, normal solution of, 116. 

sulphate, doublenormal solution of, 
116. 

sulphide, tenthnormal solution of, 
116. 
Solidification-point, 73. 
Solidifying-point determination, 75. 
Solubility, 77. 
Solution, 50. 

potassium hydroxide, normal, 87. 
Solutions, normal, of mineral salts, 
115. 

saturated, 50. 

supersaturated, 50. 
Sorbapple liqueur, 248. 
Soups, spice extract for, 348. 
Souring of fermented liquids, 61. 
Spaa Pouhon, mineral water, 128. 
Spanish bitters, compound liqueur oil 
for, 279. 

bitters essence, 269. 
Specific gravity, 78. 

gravity balance, 79. 

gravity determination, 80. 
Speculatius extract for baking, 342. 
Spice bitters essence, 269. 

cherry liqueur, compound liqueur 
oil for, 246. 

extract compound, culinary, 347. 

extracts, culinary, 344. 

extracts for baking, 340. 

extracts, simple, 340. 

fondant, 320. 

for grain alcohol, 281. 

liqueur, compounded liaueur oil 
for, 235. 

oil for baking, 341. 

salts, 350. 
Spiced-picklc extract, 348. 

spice salt, 352. 
Spices, 19. 

Spirits, industrial and genuine, 211. 
Sprays for room, 389. 



INDEX 



425 



Spring flower perfume, 381. 

nosegay perfume, 381. 
Star anise essence, 226. 
Steam pressures, temperatures of, 

76. 
Steinhaeger, artificial compounded 
liqueur oil for, 229. 

essence, 229. 
Stephanotis perfume, 381. 
Sterilization, 65. 
Sterilizing fruit* juices, 142. 
Stick pomades, 374. 
Stomach bitters essence, 273. 
Stomachic wines, 289. 
Stonsdorf bitters, 267. 
Strawberry basic ether, 328. 

caramel flavor, 337. 

essence, colorless, 311. 

essence, red, 310, 311. 

fondant, 320. 

jam, 160. 

liqueur, 248. 

pomade, 393. 
Strontium chloride, tenthnormal solu- 
tion of, 116. 
Styrax tincture for perfumery, 373. 
Sugar, 42. 

coloring, 68, 356. 

determination, 93. 

syrup, 66. 
Sulphates used in mineral water in- 
dustry, 30. 
Sultan water, vegetable distillate for, 

259. 

Surrogate, definition of, 10. 
Swedish punch, 292. 

punch caramel flavor, 337 

punch essence, 305. 

punch lemonade, 194. 
Sweet pea perfume, 381. 
Swiss Alpine bitters, liqueur oil for, 

279. 
Alpine herbs essence, 304. 
herb stomachic bitters essence, 

273. 
Syrup Charentais for cognac basis, 

286. 
Syrupage, 286. 



Tabaries formula, 84. 
Table of composition of aromatic 
waters, 262. 
of alcohols, aldehydes, and corre- 
sponding acids, 33. 
of composition of bitter liqueurs, 

279. 
of composition of fruit liqueurs, 

250. 
of most important esters, 37. 
of physical standards of volatile 

oils, 25. 
of solubility of terpeneless oils in 

alcohols of various degrees, 29. 
of solubility of volatile oils in al- 
cohols of various degrees, 26. 
Table water, 118. 
water salts, 119. 
waters, 117. 

waters, compressed salt mixtures 
for, 118. 
Tablet perfume, 386, 387. 
Tangerine basic ether, 328. 
caramel flavor, 337. 
essence, 312. 
fondant, 321. 
Tar dyes, 360. 
Tarasp, Lucius Spring, mineral water, 

128. 
Tarragon extract, 349. 
vinegar essence, 350. 
Taste, alteration of, by chemical or 
physical means, 11. 
extractive, 7. 
function of, 3. 
false, 7. 
general, 7. 
leading, 7. 

transfer of, to products, 7. 
Tastes, kind of, 4. 

raw material for, 15. 
Tea basic ether, 328. 
biscuits, extract for baking, a42 
caramel flavor, 337. 
essence, 253, 315. 
essence, colorless, 315. 
punch extract, 292. 
rose perfume, 380. 



426 



INDEX 



Temperance table water salt, 120. 
Terpenes, removing from rind es- 
sences, 174. 
Thermometers, 74. 
Thymol mouthwash, 390. 
Tinctures for perfumery, 373. 
Titration methods, 87. 
Toddy extract, 291. 
Tokay fondant, 322. 
Toilet cream, 392. 

powders, perfumes for, 392. 

, vinegars, 386. 

waters, 384. 
Tolu balsam tincture for perfumery, 

373. 
Tonca bean extract, 341. 
Tongue sausage spice salt, 352. 
Tonic stomach bitters, 272. 
Toothpastes, 391. 
Toothpowder, 391. 
Toothsoap cream, 391. 
Trefle perfume, 381. 
Trefoil perfume, 381. 
Triple extracts, manufacture of, 372. 
Truffle extract, 346. 
Tulip perfume, 382. 
Turbidity of liquids, removal of, 68. 
Typage, 286. 
Typages, 11. 

Underproof, definition of, 82. 
Universal basic ether, 328. 

caramel flavor, 337. 

stomach bitters, compound liqueur 
oil for, 279. 
Urosin-calcium-iron water, 134. 
Usquebaugh essence, 267. 

Vanilla basic ether, 328. 

bean essence, 315. 

caramel flavor, 338. 

essence, genuine, 236. 

liqueur essence, 306. 
Vanillin, 43. 

essence, 236. 

essence, colorless, 315. 

solution for perfumery, 373. 
Vaselin cream, 392. 



Veal, spice extract for, 347. 
Verbena perfume, 382. 

toilet water, 386. 
Vermouth extract, 290. 
Vichy, Grande Grille, mineral water, 

129. 
Victoria lemonade, 197. 
Vine flower perfume, 382. 
Vinegar coloring, 68. 

essence spices, 349. 

fruits, spice extract for, 349. 

spice extract for, 349. 
Violet, artificial, perfume, 382. 

cologne, 384. 

dye, 358. 

extract for baking, 341. 

hair wash, 396. 

liqueur essence, 261. 

perfume for tablets, 387. 

perfumes, 382. 

sachet, 388. 

toilet vinegar, 386. 

toilet water, 386. 

type fixative base, 339. 
Volkmeria perfume, 382. 

Wafer flavor basic ethers, 329. 

flavors, 322. 

flavors, fat-soluble, 338. 
Walnut basic ether, 328. 

caramel flavor, 338. 

compound liqueur oil for, 247. 

essence, 245, 304. 

fondant, 321. 

kernel essence, 313. 
Water, potable, investigating, 95. 

testing quality of, 111. 
Water-cress liqueur, compound li- 
queur oil f o , 256. 
Waters, aromatic, essences for, 261. 

aromatic, distillate for making, 
257. 

aromatic, methods of making, 254. 

aromatic, mixed essences for, 255. 

aromatic, volatile oils for malring^ 
255. 

effervescent, 132. 

medicinal, 133. 



INDEX 



427 



Waters, Unlet, 384. 
Wedding cake extract for baking, 342. 
West End bouquet perfume, 383. 
Whisky spice, 282. 

spice, Silesian, 281. 

spice, Westphalian, 282. 

spice, wheat-corn, 282. 
White rose perfume, 381. 

stomach water, compound liqueur 
oil for, 257. 

wine lemonade, 194. 

wine punch extract, 293. 
Wiesbaden, Kochbrunnen mineral 

water, 129. 
Wild fowl, spice extract for, 347. 

fowl, spice salt for, 351. 

fruit essence, 249. 
Wildungen, Georg- Victor Spring min- 
eral water, 130. 

Helenen Spring, mineral water, 130. 
Wine flavors, artificial, 192, 194. 



Wine fondant flavors, 321. 

mulled, spice extract for, 348. 

punch extract, glowing, 293. 

punches, 292. 

vinegar essence, 350. 
Wines, non-alcoholic, 200. 
Wintergreen perfume, 375. 
Wood alcohol (spirit), 34. 
Woodruff caramel flavor, 338. 

essence, 251. 

essence, artificial, 251. 

fondant, 321. 

wafer flavor, 331. 
Wormwood wine, 290. 

Yacht club perfume, 383. 
Yellow berries, 356. 

dye, 356. 
Ylang-Ylang perfume, 383. 

Zapon lacquer, 40. 



*«* 








Q^a 






TP 958 W3 1916 C.1 jf\ Zi "-? 
Manual tor the essence Induatr *v* C^* _? 
Stanford University LibrarWa 

IlllNllllIll 

3 6105 040 820 248 








\. 


CECIL H. GREEN LIBRARY 

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 

STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305-6004 

[650] 723-1493 

grncirc@sulmail.sIanford.edu 


All books are subject lo recall. 
DATE DUE-^j 


HAW) 9 2000 

1 

X 

JUN - S-2000 
JUL.tf? 2001 


APR & 2000 

JUL *2O0B 

% 

AUG 04 2000 

Auygano 

OS 

SEg2 6 2000 

CO 










\ . 




i \ 





