

*%i 1 


^^^ 


1 oHHS 1 


1 2 = 00 1 


1 g ^3* 


1 u_ — CNJ 



■CD 



CO 









yiTsentefr to 

(Ehe Xibraru 

of the 

33iriuerstty of (Toronto 

by 

The Estate of the late 
Professor C.T. Currelly 







f ImtA 



RENNIE'S 
AGRICULTURE 

IN CANADA 



MODERN PRINCIPLES OF 

AGRICULTURE 

APPLICABLE TO CANADIAN FARMING 

TO YIELD GREATER 

PROFIT 



By Wm. REN NIK, vSr. 

I. ATE OF THE O.A.C.. GUELPH 



PUBLISHED BY 

wm. RENNIK Co., Limited 

TORONTO 
19 1 6 



Copyright, Canada. 1916, by W'm. Rexxii. Co., Limited, 

Toronto. 



5 

5, 



*. 7. S* 



FOREWORD 

In a country famous for her vast wheat fields 
and whose chief industry is — and must continue 
to be for man)'- years — agriculture, the need of a 
standard work on this important subject by a com- 
petent writer is apparent. Of the few Canadian 
writers with a practical knowledge of farming in 
Canada, who have attempted to blaze the trail for 
the newcomer or help the old settler with advice 
born of long personal experience, none occupy such 
a pre-eminent position as William Rennie. 

Unusually successful in all departments of agri- 
culture and with the gift of imparting information 
on the most prosaic subject in a fascinating manner, 
his personality was a potent factor in the elevation 
of farm work to the science of agriculture. By pre- 
cept and example he enriched farm life in this 
country, and did much to lift it from the deadly 
routine which was rapidly depleting the rural popu- 
lation of its young life. 

The author came into national prominence by 
winning the first Silver Medal presented by the 
Agricultural and Arts Association of Ontario for 
the cleanest and best-managed farm in the province, 
while his brother, the late Simpson Rennie, who 
occupied the Rennie homestead in Scarboro (Ont.), 
won the Gold Medal. 

At a critical period in the history of the Ontario 
Agricultural College, Wm. Rennie was requested by 
the Hon. John Dryden, then Minister of Agricul- 



IV FOREWORD. 

ture, to take charge of the Farm, demonstrate his 
latest methods, as well as lecture to the students, 
where he served for years with credit to himself and 
profit to the College. 

On many other occasions his wide experience and 
expert knowledge have been of service to the 
Government, when matters of vital importance to 
Canadian Agriculture were under consideration. 

In recent years, scientific agriculture has made 
great strides, and much valuable information, the 
outcome of later experiences and investigation, is 
presented herewith. The book is invaluable to the 
Canadian farmer, as it is the only practical work 
on Canadian Agriculture extant. It embodies Mr. 
Rennie's scientific principles of soil cultivation, rota- 
tion of crops, etc., which can be followed with great 
profit in any country. Every department of the 
farm and home has been given the most careful 
attention, and, if farmers will adhere to the easily 
followed scientific instructions, they may reason- 
ably expect a greater measure of success and a 
saving of labor, which will add pleasure and profit 
to their daily work. 

The book is written in the simple, lucid style 
which characterized Mr. Rennie's popular lectures 
to students and to Farmers' Institutes. 

W. R. Co. 



INTRODUCTION 



The man whose life is spent on the farm finds 
himself in the midst of surroundings conducive to 
the development of all that is best in humanity. 

Abundance of pure air and floods of sunlight 
provide the essentials for maintaining the highest 
standard of physical vigor; freedom from the noises 
and excitement of the city tend to the formation of 
habits of quiet thought and sober reflection; special 
dignity and importance are given to his calling by 
the knowledge that something is being produced by 
his daily toil that is absolutely necessary to the con- 
tinued existence of civilization; and, above and be- 
yond all this, is the inspiration coming from the fact 
that he feels himself in a special sense a co-worker 
with Providence — Providence supplying the mois- 
ture and the warmth that bring to fruition the seed 
sown by his hand. 

The young man or woman whose life has been 
spent on the farm has thus a decided advantage over 
those whose homes are in the close streets of a great 
city. 

Life on the farm offers, too, freely and abund- 
antly, opportunities such as are reserved to the 
favored few in cities, for giving beauty to the home 
surroundings and securing unlimited supplies of the 
fruits of the garden and the vine. There is room 
for lawn, for flowers, for graceful trees, and for the 
growth of delicacies and luxuries which can be 
plucked and used just at the time when nature has 
brought them to the highest state of perfection. 

W. R., Sr. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Foreword iii 

Introduction v 

CHAPTER I. 
Beautifying the Country Home .... 9 

CHAPTER II. 
The Vegetable Garden 26 

CHAPTER HI. 
Small Fruits 37 

CHAPTER IV. 
The Orchard 45 

CHAPTER V. 
Farm Implements and Buildings .... 57 

CHAPTER VI. 
Underdraining 7S 

CHAPTER VII. 
Cultivation of the Soil 84 

CHAPTER VIII. 
Cultivating and Seeding 89 

CHAPTER IX. 
Destroying Weeds 97 

CHAPTER X 
Rotation of Crops 100 

CHAPTER XI 
Grain Growing 107 

CHAPTER XII. 
Field Root Crops 115 

CHAPTER XIII. 
Exhibition Roots . 129 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XIV. page 

Potato Growing 131 

CHAPTER XV. 
Rape for Fodder 134 

CHAPTER XVI. 
Corn for Silage 135 

CHAPTER XVII. 
Fall Cultivation 148 

CHAPTER XVIII. 
Cultivation for Spring Crops 150 

CHAPTER XIX. 
Alfalfa Clover 163 

CHAPTER XX. 
Pasture and Soiling Crops 168 

CHAPTER XXI. 
Three Year Rotation 170 

CHAPTER XXII. 
Fencing 172 

CHAPTER XXIII. 
Growing and Feeding of Live Stock . . . .177 

CHAPTER XXIV. 
Breeds of Cattle 186 

CHAPTER XXV. 
Cattle for Beef 193 

CHAPTER XXVI 
Horses 200 

CHAPTER XXVII. 
Sheep 203 

CHAPTER XXVIII 
Swine 210 

CHAPTER XXIX. 
Poultry 217 

CHAPTER XXX 
Western Farming 233 

CHAPTER XXXI. 
System 243 



RENNIE'S AGRICULTURE 



CHAPTER I. 



Beautifying the Country Home. 

A farm home can be made attractive at very 
little cost. Many farm houses are too costly. If 
one-quarter or even one-third of the cost had been 
spent in laying out the grounds, and planting trees, 
properly arranged, it would not only have added to 
the comfort and appearance of the place, but would 
have increased the value of the farm as well. In- 
deed, the value of this cannot be reckoned in dollars 
and cents. It should be the ambition of parents to 
make home the brightest and most attractive spot 
on earth for their family. 

In improving the farm, one of the most important Decide the 

.... . , . ,- Location for 

things is to decide on the location and quantity of Orchard, 
land to enclose for orchard, small fruits, vegetable Lawn 6 "" 
garden, and lawn. Provision should be made at the 
back for a small pasture for calves, poultry, etc. 
See diagram of farm. Having decided on the loca- 
tion, clear away all the old fences and rubbish of 
every kind on the whole space intended to be en- 
closed. If any grading is required it should be done 
before commencing to cultivate. Do no more 
grading than is necessary, as grounds have a more 
natural appearance when they are somewhat un- 
dulating. The portion intended for the lawn should 
be heavily manured from the barnyard before plow- 
ing. The whole enclosure should be plowed shallow, 



k K \ X I E S AGR I C U L T U K K . 

and thoroughly harrowed and cultivated alternately 
until the land is cleared of all weeds and weed seeds. 
The subsoil should be loosened about ten inches 
deep with a stiff tooth subsoiler. See III. i. 




1. FOUR-HORSE SCBSOH.ER. 



Prepare a 
Plan. 



Then prepare a plan, and work to it the same as 
a mechanic working to a plan prepared for a building. 



BEAUTIFYING TIIK COUNTRY HOME. 11 

Hvery farmer will require a plan especially adapted 
to his own place. In preparing this he should con- 
sider the location of buildings and the whole sur- 
roundings, with a view to getting the best possible 
effect. Good ideas of what will best suit the cir- 
cumstances can be obtained by securing an inex- 
pensive book on landscape gardening. 

A wire fence should be erected around the whole Enclosing the 
of these grounds, and evergreen trees planted inside Hedges and 
the fence. The most suitable tree for this purpose Wind - Breaks - 
is the Norway spruce, which will answer both for a . 
wind-break and hedge, but white cedar (arbor- 
vitce) will make the most compact hedge. Trees 
about twenty inches high are sufficiently large for 
planting. Nursery trees that have been trans- 
planted are preferable; the cost of these is about 
$10.00 per hundred. For hedge work plant about 
eighteen inches inside of the wire fence. If you 
use cedar, plant the trees two feet apart, and if 
Norway spruce, three feet apart. If planting for a 
wind-break use Norway spruce, or pine, and plant 
from eight to ten feet apart. These will grow up 
with little attention, and soon become both orna- 
mental and useful. For various reasons it is not 
advisable to plant a double row for a wind-break. 
In a few years the inside branches die for want of air, 
and it requires so much nourishment to support a 
double row that no vegetation will grow near the 
trees. The evergreen should not be planted too 
near the fruit trees, as the latter requires a fairly 
free passage of air to drive away moths and other 
insects that usually collect in close places. A single 
row of evergreens, planted not too closely, will make 
a more healthy and graceful wind-break, and will 
not have the objection of preventing sufficient breeze 
from passing through the orchard. 



12 rexxie's agriculture. 

Groups of In a country with long winters, and when the 

Trimming deciduous trees are without their foliage, the home 

Evergreen . . * 

Hedges. is more attractive and comfortable when surrounded 

with evergreens. One or two groups, properlv 
located in the grounds, improve the scenerv. When 
trimming evergreen hedges, slope the sides so that 
the bottom branches will get a share of the rains and 
dews. Cut the top even with the top wire of fence, 
which should not be too high. In a long hedge it is 
advisable to allow a tree in the hedge to grow 
twenty-five inches higher even' fifty or sixty feet, 
and round the top. This improves the appeal ance 
by taking off the plainness. See Home, Xorth View. 
At each side of the gates leave a tree about forty 
inches above the hedge, trimmed round or any de- 
sirable shape. For hedges, the most desirable are 
the cedar and Norway spruce, and where the winter 
is not too severe, the hemlock, with its drooping 
branches, makes one of the most graceful hedges. 
The cedar is of a slower growth, but makes the 
most compact hedge of any of the evergreens. 
Evergreen hedges should be grown close to a wire 
fence, so that the branches will grow through be- 
tween the wires. After being trimmed outside the 
fence each autumn for several years, the branches 
will have become so interwoven with the wires that, 
even after the posts have decayed, the wires will 
remain in place, and make the hedge thoroughly 
stock proof, thus providing a useful and ornamental 
live hedge which will last for fifty years or more. 
There are many deciduous shrubs that make beauti- 
ful hedges during the summer months, but on 
account of casting their leaves in the autumn they 
add no attraction to the grounds when most needed. 
These also require the protection of a wire fence. 
" Spirea Van Houttei " makes a beautiful hedge when 
in bloom. 



14 



Avoid Straight 
Drives and 
Walks— Seed- 
ing the Lawn. 



KK.XXIK S AGRICULTURE. 

In laying out drives and walks provide graceful 
curves whenever possible. Avoid a straight walk 
from the front door of the house to the road. Before 
seeding a lawn, make sure that it has been cultivated 
sufficiently to destroy all weeds and weed seeds. 
The lawn can be seeded with success any time be- 




3. BRUSH IIAKKOW. 

tween early spring and the first of October. If 
sown after this date, in Northern Ontario, the white 
clover will not stand the winter. Sow the following 
mixture: Two pounds white clover, five pounds 
red top grass, three pounds Chewing's Fescue, and 
five pounds Kentucky blue grass (mixed) per acre, 
with half a bushel of barley. Sow all broad- 
cast on the surface, after which give a stroke 



BEAUTIFYING THE COUNTRY HOME. 



15 



with the harrow or Breed's weeder. After the 
barley is up several inches, cut, and leave it on 
the ground as a mulching. By keeping the barley 
cut the lawn will soon have an attractive appearance. 
Each spring sow a little white clover, and brush 
harrow the lawn thoroughly to pulverize and smooth 
the surface, which is usually made uneven by earth 
worms. See III. j. Brush harrowing is preferable 




4. CHAIN HARROW. 

to rolling. The chain harrow (see Til. 4) does the 
work still more thoroughly. Clover is of very great 
importance in keeping up fertility on the lawn, as it 
collects nitrogen to feed the other grasses, and keeps 
the lawn green during the summer. 

If the land has been thoroughly cleaned of weeds cutting the 
before seeding, it will require very little attention in Grouping 
after years. The portion used for amusements in 
the summer evenings will require to be cut frequently 
with a lawn mower. See III. 5. The balance 
should be cut the beginning of June. This can be 
done with a scythe, or a horse mowing machine. It 
is better not to cut during the hot summer months. 



16 



KKXXIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Groups of trees on the lawn — say, one group in front 
near the road, and the other at the back, give the 
place a park-like appearance. A variety of ever- 
green and deciduous trees may be planted in these 
groups. A crab-apple tree, and a sweet cherry tree, 




5. LAWN MOWER. 



make useful and ornamental shade trees for the 
lawn. Groups of flowering shrubs add greatly to 
the attractions, but in order to get the best results 
from them it is advisable to dig around them. In 
grouping trees, or shrubs, and in making flower 



BEAUTIFYING TIIK COUNTRY HOME. 17 

beds, have no sharp angles, but round off the 
corners. This takes off the stiffness and gives the 
place a more natural appearance. In arranging 
groups do not plant three shrubs or trees in line. 
It is much more natural to have them set irregu- 
larly. 

Trees, shrubs, and even flower beds, should be 
some distance from the house. A plain lawn, 
nicely kept, gives the home an attractive and quiet 
appearance, and by having the trees planted some 
distance from the home, sunlight can be given free 
access to all the rooms of the dwelling. See III. 6. 

In making a selection of flowering shrubs two Selection of 
things must be observed, viz., select varieties suffi- ing r snrubs Wer 
ciently hardy for the locality in which they are 
required, and choose a collection that will bloom at 
various times, from early spring until autumn. The 
following are a few varieties that have proved 
sufficiently hardy in Central Ontario, where the 
thermometer reaches twenty-five degrees below zero: 
Rose-colored and white-flowered Weigelia, large- 
flowering Hydrangea, Tartarian Honeysuckle, Japan 
Quince, Spirea Van Houttei, Guelder Rose or Snow- 
ball, purple Lilac, white Lilac, Japanese Snowball, 
Mock Orange, and flowering Almond. They will 
also provide a long period of bloom. 

The size and shape of flower beds will depend Flower Beds, 
upon circumstances. A family who are fond of 
flowers will care for a larger and more varied collec- 
tion than others whose tastes run in other lines, but 
two or three flower beds on the lawn are necessary 
for variety. These should be of varied shapes, and, 
to get satisfactory results from them, a collection of 
autumn bulbs, especially tulips, should be planted 
in October, and covered with leaves or stable 
manure. Snowdrops and the Crocus are the first 



BEAUTIFYING THE COUNTRY HOME. 



19 



to bloom in spring, and should, therefore, be included 
in the collection. Rake off the covering on the first 




— o 



signs of spring, and give the little beauties a chance 
to show their colors. Tulips are the most popular 
of all Holland bulbs for outdoor planting. Between 



20 ki.xxie's agriculture. 

the single and double varieties it is simplv a matter 
of choice. Both make a magnificent display, and 
Darwin tulips are excellent for late flowering or for 
cutting for table decoration. A few Hyacinths in a 
flower bed, in addition to their beauty, add a 
pleasant odor. It is not necessary to continue the 
list of bulbs suitable for outdoor planting, as full 
illustrated lists may be had free from any seed store. 
Fall-planted bulbs will continue in bloom from earlv 
spring until the beginning of June, when the flower 
beds should be refilled with bedding-out plants, such 
as Cannas, Geraniums, Asters. Petunias, Phlox, etc., 
which will continue to bloom until late in the fall. 
How to Make a \\ j s no t necessary to buv either flower or vege- 

Hot-bed. - - ° 

table plants when you can buy the seed for a mere 
trifle, and by making a hot-bed, grow all the plants 
required at little cost. See III. j. The situation 
for a hot-bed should be dry underneath, and shel- 
tered on the north and north-west by some kind of 
wind-break, and be fully exposed to the sun. It 
should be built up from two to two and a half feet 
high, and wider by one foot on each side than the 
frame which is to be placed on the heating material 
that forms the beds. This heating material should 
be fresh manure from the horse stable, with the usual 
amount of litter. This is thrown into a pile, and, 
in a few days, when fermentation has taken place, 
it is turned over and carefully shaken out, and 
formed again into a pile. This is left until the 
second fermentation takes place. It may then be 
placed in position for the hot-bed, shaped and 
trodden down, so that it will remain uniform. If the 
frame is six by nine feet, twelve inches high at the 
back, and eight inches high at the front, facing the 
south, the manure bed should be eight by eleven 
feet. It is not necessary to cover the frame with 



BEAUTIFYING THE COUNTRY HOME. 21 

glass; factory cotton is ;ill that is necessary. Cotton 
is much cheaper than glass and requires less atten- 
tion. Have the sheet larger than the frame so as to 
overlap a few inches. Have a roller about ten feet 
long, and the cotton tacked to it, and to the upper 
side of the frame. The roller will hang over the 
ends and prevent the wind from moving the cotton. 
The cotton can be rolled up to air the plants when 
required. After the first intense heat has passed off, 
cover the manure over with about six inches of soil. 
The soil should have been prepared the previous fall 
by rotting sod, and old cattle manure. When the 
hot-bed is completed it is advisable to let it stand 
two or three days until the heat moderates before 
planting the seeds. The time to make a hot-bed in 
Central Ontario is the beginning of April, so that the 
plants will be ready to set out by the first of June. 

The selection of flower seeds best adapted for varieties of 
growing bedding-out plants is a matter of fancy, vl™taMes. d 
As a rule, preference should be given to those that 
bloom from the time they are set out, say the first 
of June, until late in autumn. The following should 
be included in the list: Petunia, Phlox, Salvia, 
Verbena, and Geraniums. The latter can be grown 
in a hot-bed from cuttings. For a full collection 
of flower seeds, see any of the seed catalogues. 

It is desirable that a portion of the hot-bed be 
reserved for vegetable plants, for early planting, 
say, tomato, lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower, etc. 
Melons and cucumbers can be started in a hot-bed 
by inverting sods in the soil and planting seeds in 
them. By leaving a few melon plants in the hot-bed 
at the close of the season it will be both ornamental 
and useful during the summer. 

In addition to a hot-bed, every farm home should 
have a cold frame (see III. 8) to start vegetable 



77 



RENNIES AGRICULTURE. 



Cold Frames 
How to 
Prepare Soil - 
Covering 
Frame. 



plants, such as cabbage, cauliflower, tomatoes, 
lettuce, etc., early in the spring. Early lettuce is 
relished by most people and provision should be 
made to have some ready for use in the home as 
early in the season as possible. The work of pre- 
paring the soil should be done in autumn, by digging 
in a quantity of well-rotted farm manure, and 
covering a foot deep or more with coarse stable 




. __, „ .. ..;./, . ;,- .,, h.-y:,' . '",(.. 



— , — .... __. ..".■i 




8 I I >].h FRAME. 



manure, to prevent the soil from freezing, so that it 
can be planted early in the spring. Use the same 
style of frame as for a hot-bed. When wanted for 
use, remove the manure and put the frame on the 
soil, using the same manure to bank up the frame 
on the outside. Cover the frame with cotton, pro- 
vided with a roller the same as for a hot-bed. It is 
necessary to have strips of wood three feet apart to 
prevent the cotton from sagging in the centre. 
Loosen up the soil with a spading fork before sowing 
seeds. 

The cold frame must be sheltered from the north 
and west. By making due preparation, and sowing 



BEAUTIFYING THE COUNTRY HOME. 



23 



the seeds at the end of March, the plants will be Time to Sow 

1 a , • ,1 i . « . Flower Beds 

ready to set out in the open ground by the end of Hardy Peren- 
May. These dates are for Central and Northern 
Ontario. For more southern latitudes the time for 
sowing and planting in the open ground will vary 
according to location. In addition to flower beds 
of annuals on the lawn there should also be a bed 
of flowering perennials. These require very little 
attention. Make the bed of irregular shape, with 
rounded corners; dig in considerable farm manure, 
and mulch every winter. Plant such flowers as are 
hardy and showy, and that will bloom profusely. 
The following is a list of hardy perennials to select 
from. The common names only are given : Bleeding 
Heart, Coreopsis, Hardy Phlox, Gaillardia, Garden 
Pinks, Iris, Helianthus, Hollyhocks, Japanese Lilies, 
Delphinium, Lemon Lily, White Garden Lily, 
Oriental Poppy, Paeonies, Golden Glow, Sweet 
William. The above list will provide a collection of 
cut bloom sufficient to brighten the home all sum- 
mer, in addition to the outdoor ornamentation. 

Another attraction that may be added to the 
lawn is a rockery placed in some shady corner. 
This should be oval in shape and raised in the centre 
with a few wheel-barrows full of rich mould. Spade 
in sufficient well-rotted farm manure to prevent the 
soil getting hard or forming a crust. When the bed 
is in shape and raked, place five or six rustic stones 
on it, not in line or in a formal sort of way, but 
irregularly. The bed will then be ready for planting. 

The first thing to plant is a collection of native 
ferns from the woods. After the ferns are planted, 
put in a few perennial flowers, such as the Japanese 
Iris, Hardy Phlox, Arabis or Rock Cress, Bleeding 
Heart, and Garden Pinks. This will look cosy, and 
require very little attention. 



Rockery — 
Planting Ferns 
and Perennial 
Flowers. 



24 



REN \n- s ^GRiCUl/fURE. 



Hardy 
Climbers. 



Summer 

Flowering 

Bulbs. 



A few hardy climbers around the verandah of 
the house gives the home an artistic appearance. 
A few plants of Boston Ivy or Engelman's Ivy will 
cover the walls of a house in a few years. The ivy 
requires no other support than the wall to which 
it will cling, be it stone, brick or wood, and 
although it does not bloom it is very attractive. 
The Clematis Jackmanii has a large purple flower, 
and the Clematis Paniculata a small white fragrant 
flower. These are both hardv climbers. 

A border of summer-flowering bulbs dividing the 
lawn from the vegetable garden is quite attractive, 
and as the bulbs multiply each year the principal 
cost is in the commencement. For the first row 
next the lawn, Gladioli are suggested. The flowers 
are bright, of various colors and charming appear- 
ance. For the second row, Cannas, dwarf sorts, 
will serve admirably; for the third row, Dahlias, 
mixed colors, including the Cactus varieties. The 
rows should be thirty inches apart, so that cultivat- 
ing can be done with a horse. The bulbs require 
to be taken up in the autumn and kept in a cool 
cellar where they will not freeze. Should there be 
any danger of frost, put a little sand or mould 
over them in the early part of the winter. 

This subject would not be complete without 
mentioning the queen of flowers — the Rose. In 
order to complete the floral department, plant a 
row of hardv roses four feet from the row of Dahlias, 
so that cultivating can be done with a horse. There 
are such a large variety of roses I will name only the 
following varieties as being suitable for outdoor 
blooming, and would refer to the nursery or seed cat- 
alogues for a larger collection : ' ' Frau Karl Druschki , 
white; "General Jacqueminot," scarlet; "Paul 
Xeyron," pink; " Persian Yellow." For hardy climb- 



BEAUTIFY] \'C, Til K COUN I'RY Ihi.MI". 



25 



i 1 1>4 roses, the three well-known varieties, "Gruss an 
Teplitz," large flower, rich crimson color; " Doroth) 
Perkins," rose color; and "Crimson Rambler." still 
hold their own. 




( R! \l ->>\ K \ MI'.I.KK ROSE. 



CHAPTER II. 
The Vegetable Garden. 



Value of Vege- 
table Food in 
Warm 
Weather. 



How to Prepare 
the Soil for a 
Vegetable 
Garden. 



The vegetable garden should be looked on as one 
of the important departments of the farm. A 
succession of fresh vegetables from early spring is 
necessary for the health of all classes in this country. 
It is a wise provision of nature that the food we 
should eat can be grown in the climate in which we 
live. In tropical climates we find the people living 
almost entirely on fruits and vegetables. Were 
they to eat fattening foods they could not live long, 
as such a diet would encourage disease. In our 
temperate zone, where we have both heat and cold, 
we should govern ourselves accordingly, and so 
arrange that our diet during the summer season 
will be composed largely of fruits and vegetables. 
We know that our animals never thrive better than 
in spring on fresh grass, without any additional food. 
The lesson we learn from this is that a vegetable 
food in summer is what we require; for outdoor life 
in winter we need a more concentrated and heating 
food. In Arctic regions the food of the natives is 
principally the fat of whales and other sea animals, 
called "blubber." This is necessary to supply heat 
for the body. 

It is advisable to have land for the vegetable 
garden thoroughly cultivated in the early fall, and 
an endeavor should be made to destroy all weeds 
and weed seeds. This will save a large amount of 
hand labor the following season. Before the crops 
are planted is the best time to clear the land of weeds. 
In October, when the land is in good shape, spread 
twenty or twenty-five loads of farm manure per 



THJv VEGETABLE GARDEN. 



27 



acre over the surface. Then rib the land with either 
a double mould-board, plow, or ribbers attached to 
the frame of a cultivator. Run all necessary cross 
furrows so that no water will lie on the surface. In 
the spring, when the land is required for planting, 
the ribs can be levelled dow T n by harrowing and 
cultivating. If the soil is clay it should be loosened 
ten inches deep with a subsoil plow (III. g) or a stiff- 
tooth subsoiler (III. i). The above system of 




9. subsoil plow. 



cultivation is recommended for market gardening. 
The ordinary method is to spread on the surface of 
the soil a heavy coat of manure, and bury it about 
a foot deep with an ordinary plow, turning the crude 
subsoil on the top, which will take a summer's cul- 
tivation to make it available for plant food. This 
system is in direct opposition to the laws of nature, 
which is to keep the vegetable matter on the surface, 
where the bacteria can act on it, and make it avail- 
able for plant food as required. Half the quantity 
of manure will give better results when it is incor- 
porated with the surface soil by cultivating and 



28 



R I'. X \ I E 



VGRTCUIyTURK. 



Vegetables for 
a Private 
Garden. 



harrowing. If market gardeners consulted their 
best interests they would seldom, if ever, use the 
ordinary plow. 

Asparagus is one of the earliest vegetables. This 
should be planted in rows thirty inches apart, the 
plants nine inches apart in the row, for hand culti- 
vation. For best results the land must be thor- 
oughlv enriched with well-rotted manure the pre- 
ceding fall, as asparagus is a gross feeder. Apply a 
good sprinkling of salt in the spring. A good 
variety of asparagus is the "Columbian Mammoth." 
The roots can be purchased from an}' seed store. 

Beans, dwarf or bush, should have a place in 
every vegetable garden. The bean, being a "Le- 
gume," is known to be one of the most nutritious 
and best of flesh-forming foods. A succession of 
sowings should be made from earh spring until the 
middle of summer. Plant in rows two feet apart, 
and the seeds three inches apart in the rows and 



X— X 


i — » — i — rt 


■y— — i — n— 


r—r- 


r ir 


nr 


I - 1~ 


r - ft 


TT - 


*—* — 


T9 


r " 


1 


« u 


i 






I 


\ 




I 


-P 1 



10. THK DIBBLER 



about one and a half inches deep. The rule govern- 
ing the depth of planting all seeds is from four to 
live times their diameter. Two varieties suitable 
to sow are the "Stringless Green Pod," having 
green pods, and the "Round Pod Kidney Wax," 
which has a yellow pod. 

Beets for early use should be sown as soon as the 
ground is tit to work in spring, in rows two feet 



THE VEGETABLE GARDEN. 



29 



apart, and six inches apart in the rows. For winter 
use it is advisable to sow in June, as this will give a 
crisper and better quality for use in the winter 
months. By using a dibbler (see III. 10), beets, and 
in fact, most seeds and plants, both flower and 
vegetable, can be grown at the desired distance 
apart without any variation, and this gives a garden 
an attractive appearance. For those who grow 




11. HILL-DROPPING SHED DRILL. 



vegetables on a larger scale a hill-dropping seed- 
drill is preferable. See III. it. "Crosby's Egyp- 
tian" and the "Eclipse" are two popular varieties 
of beets. 

Cabbage. — There can be no mistake in growing 
a large quantity of cabbage, for should there be 
more than are required for home use, the balance 
can be fed at a profit to animals. The plants are 
taken from the cold frame as soon as all danger of 
frost is past, and planted in the vegetable garden 
if wanted for summer use, but those intended for use 
during the winter should be planted about the end 
of June. Plant in rows two feet apart, with the 



30 rennie's agriculture. 

plants eighteen inches apart in rows. For an early 
variety, " Early Winnigstadt" or "Copenhagen Mar- 
ket" answers well, and for a late variety, "Fottler's 
Drumhead" or "Danish Ballhead." 

Cauliflower. — This is a plant that requires 
abundance of moisture in order to get the best re- 
sults. It is necessary to cultivate the soil every 
two or three days, so as to conserve all the moisture 
possible. As soon as the heads begin to show, tie 
the top leaves together with strings to prevent the 
heads from getting discolored. Among the reliable 
varieties are "Earliest Dwarf Erfurt" and "Snow- 
ball." 

Carrot. — Cultivation is similar to that for beets, 
save that the plants should be four inches apart in 
the rows, instead of six. "Oxheart" and "Chan- 
tenay" are two satisfactory varieties for table use. 

Celery requires a cool, moist atmosphere, and a 
rich black muck is especially adapted for this plant. 
The seeds should be sown in a cold frame or in the 
open ground early in the spring. Celery plants are 
made more stocky by cutting off the tops once or 
twice before transplanting. The best results are 
obtained by transplanting from the frame into plant 
boxes, then transplanting in July into rows thirty 
inches apart and eight inches apart in the row. 
Plant eelerv in trenches about four inches apart. 
When transplanting, firm the soil with the feet to 
ensure a start. In four or five weeks begin to earth 
up to give the plants an upright growth. For 
blanching (whitening) first use a hoe, drawing up 
the leaves with one hand and packing the earth 
around the plants with the other. Subsequent 
banking up can be done with the horse and plow, 
with a straight mould-board. To prevent the earth 
getting among the stalks, wrap twine once around 



THE VEGETABLE GARDEN. 31 

each plant. The last banking should be done ten 
or fifteen days before the celery is required for use 
or to be stored. In storing for winter use, dig up 
before the time of hard frosts and take immediately 
to a cool cellar and set on the floor, with boards at 
the sides. Bank up with sand or earth the same 
as for blanching in the field. "White Plume" and 
"Paris Golden Yellow" are two excellent varieties 
for table use. 

Sweet Corn. — No garden would be complete 
without a supply of sweet corn for table use. Plant 
after all danger of frost is past, in hills three feet 
apart each way. Corn requires continuous cultiva- 
tion during the growing season to conserve moisture. 
Desirable varieties are "Golden Bantam," "Early 
White Cory" and "Sto well's Evergreen." 

Cucumber plants for early use can be started in 
the hot-bed and set in the open ground as soon as all 
danger of frost is past. At the same time the general 
crop may be planted by putting a few seeds in hills 
four feet apart. Pick the fruit whether it is required 
for use or not, as otherwise the vines will die off. 
Excellent varieties for table use and pickling are 
"Davis' Perfect," "London Long Green" and 
"White Spine." Pick when the desired size. 

Lettuce may be sown early in the spring in rows 
two feet apart. Thin out for table use or for poultry 
and allow a certain number to heart. If sown every 
three weeks, fresh lettuce may be had during the 
summer season. "May King," "Iceberg," "Han- 
son" and "Nonpareil" are good varieties. 

Musk Melons are greatly relished by most 
people, and should be cultivated in every garden. 
A light, warm soil is preferable, made rich with well- 
rotted farm manure. The cultivation necessary is 
the same as for cucumbers. Musk melons and 



32 kk.\ \ 1 1; " s agricui/j (ki;. 

cucumbers should be kept some distance apart, 
otherwise they are liable to become inoculated. 
The " Early Hackensack" is a reliable variety of 
melon. 

Water Melons. The cultivation of the water 
melon is the same as for musk melons. "Cole's 
Early" and "Ice Cream" are delicious sort^. 

The Citron, so well known for preserving, should 
be given a place in all gardens. It requires to be 
grown some distance from the water melons, to pre- 
vent mixing. Give the same cultivation as for 
melons. The "Red Seeded" is a suitable variety. 

( taions. Seed for these may be sown quite earlv 
in the spring, as a few degrees of frost will not injure 
the young plants. Sow in rows eighteen inches 
apart. After the bulbs are about half an inch in 
diameter, thin out. Leave the thinnings on the 
ground to dry off, and they can be kept over winter 
and planted for early use the following spring. The 
thinnings can be used for what are known as 
"Dutch or Bottom Sets." The well-known varieties 
are "Yellow Globe Danvers," "Red Wethersfield," 
and "Silverskin " lor pickling. 

The Parsnip is one of our most nutritious vege- 
tables. Sow the seed early in the spring in rows 
two feet apart, and thin to six inches in the rows. 
Leave them in the ground until beginning of winter, 
as they are improved by the early frost. A good 
variety is the "Hollow Crown." 

Peas, being one of the legume^, should form a 
portion of our daily diet. Sow early in spring, in 
rows two feet apart. Cultivate thoroughly. Make- 
two or three sowings at intervals of three or four 
weeks. Varieties suitable are "Best Extra Early" 
for first sowing i, followed by " Prosperity or Gradus" 
and " Improved .Stratagem." The last two are large, 
green, wrinkled sorts. 



Til K VEGETABLE GARDEN. 



33 



Pumpkins. — All the pumpkins required for table 
use may be grown along with the corn. The "Large 
Cheese" is a good variety. 

Radish must be grown quickly in order to be 
crisp. Sow at intervals from early spring until 
autumn. To hasten vegetation, harrow or rake in 
land plaster before sowing. Sow in rows eighteen 
inches apart. Varieties: "Scarlet Turnip, white 
tip" and "French Breakfast." 




POTATO DIGGER AND PICKER. 



Rhubarb may be grown from seed sown early in 
the spring, but more satisfactorily by dividing the 
roots and planting in rows thirty inches apart and 
the same distance apart in the rows. For this plant 
the soil cannot be too rich. Mulch in winter. 
"Johnston's St. Martin" is a good variety. 

Squash. — The squash as a vegetable is increasing 
in popularity. The cultivation is similar to melons, 
excepting that the hills should be six to eight feet 
apart. For summer and early fall use sow the 
"Boston Marrow," and for winter the "Hubbard." 



34 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Tomatoes. — These plants are supposed to be 
started in a hot-bed or cold frame. For best results 
transplant into flat boxes, and when all danger of 
frost is past transplant (on a cloudy day if possible) 
three feet apart each way. Reliable varieties are 
the "Earliana" and "Livingston's New Globe." 

Turnips. — For early turnips, sow in spring, in 
lows two feet apart, and thin to eight inches. For 
an early variety, "Early Snowball" is satisfactory, 
and for winter use sow "Hartley's Bronze Top 
Swede ' ' about first of July. 




13. DRILL PLOW WITH POTATO DIGGER ATTACHMENT. 



Potatoes. — In the cultivation of potatoes for 
early market the largest profit is from the very 
earliest, so that there has now come to be quite a 
strife among farmers and market gardeners to be 
first. In order to gain this, the soil, if not naturally 
dry and warm, must be made so by under-draining. 
In the autumn, give a good coat of farm manure. 
Then put the land up in narrow ribs for winter. In 
spring, harrow and cultivate the ribs down, and, on 
clay land, loosen the subsoil ten or twelve inches 
deep, and again cultivate and harrow thoroughly 



THE VEGETABLE GARDEN. 



35 



Then open the drills with a drill plow (see III. ij) four 
inches deep and thirty inches apart (or plant in hills 
thirty inches apart each way). Use medium sized 
potatoes; split them, dividing the seed end; plant 
eighteen inches apart in the row. Cover with the 
drill plow, and in eight days harrow down. Keep 
the surface pulverized with a Breed weeder or harrow 
tooth cultivator. See III. 14. Cultivate frequently 
while the potatoes are growing, to conserve moisture. 
The last time the earth may be thrown towards the 
potatoes, to cover any that may be exposed to the 
sun. Do not hill up potatoes. 




14. COMBINED HARROW, CULTIVATOR AND PULVERIZER. 



Starting Hardy Sprouts.— Two weeks before 
planting spread the seed potatoes on the floor in a 
warm room, where there is plenty of sunlight, so 
that the hardy sprouts will start. These should not 
be injured. This method will insure an early crop. 

Among the many early varieties that are being 
cultivated, these two varieties still hold their own 



36 



R K N N I K S A GR I C I " I/I' URE . 



as the earliest and best, the " Improved Early Ohio" 
and the "Early Six Weeks." 

Rotation in Garden. — In gardening, follow a 
rotation as far as practicable. After early potatoes 
are harvested sow peas and buckwheat to plow 
under. This improves the quality and texture of 
the soil. 




IRISH COBBLER POTATOES. 



CHAPTER III. 
Small Fruits. 

The saihe preparation of the land necessary for 
vegetables is required for small fruits. 

The first of the small fruits to ripen is the strawberries, 
wholesome and appetizing strawberry. Straw- 




15. MELTON STRAWBERRY. 

berries should be grown in every garden. The 
surplus can always be disposed of at remunerative 
prices. The plants can be set out at any time from 
early spring until October. The soil should be 
thoroughly prepared, set in rows three feet apart 
and eighteen inches apart in the row. Cultivate 



38 



RKNNIES AGRICULTURE. 



Renewing 
Strawberries. 



The Melton. 



Gooseberries. 



Cultivation for 
Fruits. 



Red Currants. 



frequently the first season to conserve moisture and 
destroy all weeds. 

Renew by setting out one-third of the whole in 
new plants every year. An equal portion of the 
old stock may be plowed under and used for some 
other crop. This rotation will give superior fruit. 
Mulch late in the fall with coarse farm manure. 
Uncover the crown of plants early in spring, and 
leave the manure for mulching. The varieties are 
so numerous that it is difficult to make a selection. 

The Melton (see III. ij) is regarded as one of 
the best standard varieties at the present time. It 
has a perfect flower, ripens medium early, and pro- 
duces very large fruit. 

While Gooseberries do not grow to the same per- 
fection in this country that they do in Great Britain, 
yet the following varieties give, as a rule, very good 
results: "Downing," green color (see III. 16); 
"Whitesmith," yellowish white; "Industry," pale 
red. Plant Gooseberries in rows four feet apart 
each way. Train the bushes in the form of a tree. 

In the cultivation of fruits of all kinds there 
should be an abundant supply of vegetable matter 
incorporated with the surface soil to supply plant 
food and act as a mulching to conserve moisture. 
The cultivating should be done during the spring 
months. In July sow red clover between the rows 
of bushes, and some time during the following spring 
spread between the rows some rotted farm manure, 
and plow under lightly. Then harrow and cultivate 
according to previous directions. 

No farm home is complete without a supply of 
Currant jelly. The planting and cultivation of 
Currants is similar to the method followed in Goose- 
berries, except that Currants may be grown in 
bushes instead of on a single stalk. By this means 




1(>. downing GOOSEBERRY 



40 



REXXIE S ACRIcrLTURK. 



Raspberries — 
Planting and 
Pruning. 



the wood can be renewed by cutting out the old 
stalks. As a suitable red currant we would suggest 
the old reliable "Fay's Prolific" (see III. ij), and 
for a black variety the "Black Champion.'" 

Raspberries come immediately after the straw- 
berrv season, and give abundance of delicious fruit 




17. fay's prolific red currant. 



at little cost. Plant and cultivate according to 
directions given for other small fruits. Cut out all 
the old wood and weak shoots each spring, leaving 
not more than six stalks for fruiting. Xo suckers 
should be allowed to grow outside the hills. From 
the long list of red varieties the following might be 
named: "St. Regis," for earliest (see III. 18), and 



SMALL FRUITS. 



41 



"Cuthbert" to follow. For a yellow variety use 
"Golden Queen." 

For Black Cap berries there will be no mistake 
in selecting either the "Kansas" (see III. 19) or 
the "Gregg." "Blackberries" (brambles) are gen- 
erally relished on account of their peculiar aromatic 
flavor. The cultivation is the same as for rasp- 
berries, except that the rows should be seven feet 



Black Cap 
Berries and 
Brambles. 




18. ST. REGIS RASTBERRY. 



apart and the plants four feet apart in the row. 
In selecting a variety there can be no mistake in 
choosing either the "Snyder" or a newer variety 
that is claiming first place — the "Eldorado." 

If one fruit is more highly esteemed than another Grapes, 
it is the Grape. Besides its delicious fruit, the vines 
can be trained on a trellis or ail arbor, so as to be 



42 



kKWIK. S AGRICULTURE. 



How to Plant 
Grapes. 



both ornamental and useful. To ensure suecess the 
cultivation and pruning must receive attention. 

Set out in the spring, selecting good, strong 
vines. The soil must have been thoroughly cul- 
tivated and subsoiled. Plant in rows eight feet 
apart, and about sixteen feet in the row. Allow 
grape vines to grow the first summer without prun- 
ing. In the fall prune back, leaving three or four 




19. KANSAS BLACK CAP RASPBERRY. 



How to Train 
Grapes. 



buds at the bottom. The following spring allow 
only two of these shoots to grow, and in the fall 
cut them back to about four feet. The following 
spring these two shoots may be fastened horizontally 
to the low r er wire of the trellis. 

The uprights should be from ten to twelve inches 
apart. In the fall the upright shoots should be cut 
back to two or three buds, and only one of these 
allowed to grow in the spring. In tying up grape 
vines use some soft material, as tow or raffia. 



SMALL FRUITS. 



43 



The cultivation of Grapes should be thorough, Cultivation of 
hut should be continued only through spring and 
early summer. At the end of July some crop 




20. Niagara wii m-: GK \h ; , 



should be sown, and allowed to remain on the surface 
as a mulching until the following spring. Vetches 
and buckwheat mixed will be found suitable for this 
purpose. The advantage of this method is that the 



44 rennie's agriculture. 

crop will use a large portion of the moisture of the 
soil during the months of August and September. 
This will allow the wood and fruit to mature earlier, 
and in its proper season. This mulching also pre- 
vents the frost from injuring the roots in winter, 
and keeps the Grapes from starting to grow too early 
in the spring. Plowing this under shallow, along 
with well-rotted farm manure, in the spring, and 
cultivating as in the previous year, will ensure an 
abundance of matured fruit. 
Varieties of During the past few years many new varieties of 

Grapes have been introduced, and after a trial have 
been found wanting. The following varieties can be 
relied on: "Campbell's Early," the "Concord" 
(black), the "Brighton" and "Delaware" (red), 
"Moore's Diamond" and "Niagara" (white), 
///. 20). 



Grapes. 



CHAPTER IV. 
The Orchard. 

It is considered that the most suitable location Exposure of 
for an orchard is a north-east by east exposure, for ° rchard - 
the reason that the trees thus exposed are later in 
blooming. Consequently there is less danger of 
frost destroying the fruit when it is forming. Danger 
from frost can, however, in a measure be obviated 
by mulching in the autumn. 

Before planting an orchard the land should be Draining an 
underdrained, the drains placed thirty-five feet 
apart, and arranged so that there will be a drain 
between the rows of trees. If close to the trees, the 
drains are liable to be choked with the rootlets. As 
a further preparation, clover sod should be manured 
and plowed down, in the fall, the same as for root 
crops. (See cultivation for field roots, page 115.) 

Early spring is the proper time to plant all fruit Planting an 
trees. Plant an apple orchard in rows thirty-live 
feet apart, and thirty-live feet in the row, set alter- 
nately so as to allow more space for the trees. 

Pears, etc., will do with twenty feet space, but Pears, Plums 
when only a few of each of these are required for home Trees, 
use it is advisable, for convenience in cultivating, 
to keep them in line with the apple orchard. 

In planting any fruit, try to make the holes large 
enough to admit the roots without cramping or 
bending, and deep enough to bring the tree to its 
natural depth. If the subsoil is clay, loosen, after 
the hole is dug, with a spading fork, ten or twelve 
inches, so that all rain water will filter down below 
the roots of the tree when planted. Fine surface 



46 rEnnie's agriculture. 

soil should be used for covering the roots, and this 
should be carefully worked among them. If the 
ground is dry, it is well to pour in some water when 
the hole is partially filled. See that the ground is 
firmly packed over the roots, by exerting the full 
weight of the planter upon it, so that the roots will 
not dry out. Fill the holes full enough to be even 
with the surrounding surface after the fresh earth 
settles. Never put manure in contact with the roots. 
The young trees should be staked and tied, so that 
the wind will not loosen the roots. When the trees 
are planted they should be mulched with coarse 
farm manure four or five inches deep, for a space two 
feet more in diameter than the extent of the roots. 
This keeps the earth moist and of even temperature. 
The following spring a strip of eight or ten feet wide 
in line with the rows of trees should be plowed 
shallow, then harrowed and cultivated with wide 
points (to clean the land and conserve moisture) at 
intervals of two weeks until July. Then seed this 
strip with either Alfalfa or Red Clover, to remain over 
winter as a cover crop. In the following spring the 
clover should be plowed under, harrowed and cul- 
tivated until July, and again seeded with clover as 
in the previous year. After three years of this 
treatment the strip in line with the trees may be 
seeded with alfalfa, and allowed to remain for two 
years without plowing. This allows the alfalfa roots 
to penetrate down among the roots of the trees and 
perforate the subsoil, 
cropping A hoe crop may be grown between the rows of 

Row^o? Trees, trees the first season after planting, followed with a 
grain crop, seeding the second year with alfalfa. 
The space between the rows of trees may be seeded 
with alfalfa when the trees are planted. Provided 
the land is clean and in good condition, the alfalfa 



THE ORCHARD. 



47 



may remain for a number of years without plowing 
down. The first growth can be made into hay, or 
cut and fed green. All animals are fond of it. It is 
advisable not to remove the after-growth. The 



21. LOUIS PHILLIPPE CHERRY, 



equivalent of whatever is removed from the soil 
should be returned in farm manure, and spread over 
the surface in winter. 

The advantages from using alfalfa in an orchard p lfal jj a as a 
are that the plants collect a large amount of free 



48 kkxxie's agriculture. 

nitrogen from the air and the roots go down several 
feet, and bring up soluble mineral matter. Besides 
this, they perforate the subsoil among the roots of 
the trees, which is essential to the health of the 
latter. A cover crop of clover and farm manure 
prevents the trees from blooming too early in the 
spring. Although the above directions are specially 
applicable to the apple orchard, they are equally 
beneficial for other fruit trees. 

Following in the order, according to diagram 
(page 102), cherries will come in order next to grapes. 
Standard trees are more suitable than dwarfs for 
horse cultivation. Reliable varieties of acid cherries 
for preserving are "Montmorency" and "Louis 
Phillippe" (see III. 21). The following are three 
satisfactory sweet cherries for table use: " Napoleon," 
"Elton," and "Black Tartarian." 

Plums. The plum, the most delicious of fruits, has 

suffered severely in past years from eurculio and 
black knot. The former evil may be combatted by 
spraying with certain compounds which are dealt 
with more fully in the section dealing with apple 
culture. In the case of black knot the infected parts 
should be cut out and burned. Spraying the trees 
with Bordeaux mixture has a tendency to restrain 
further contagion. For an early plum, the "Burbank' ' 
might be named; for second, "Lombard" is still 
a favorite (see III. 22), and for autumn variety the 
" Reine Claude" is one of the best. 

Pears. The cultivation of the pear is extending as the 

value of the fruit is appreciated. The melting, 
juicy texture, the fine flavor and delicate aroma of 
the pear give it a high place among fruits. A "pear 
orchard, properly attended to, will yield large re- 
turns, but pears require special care, particularly in 
picking and packing, both for home use and for 



THE ORCHARD. 



49 




22. LOMBARD PLUM. 



50 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Apples, for 
Domestic Use. 



Commercial 
Apple Growing 



Plant Healthy 
Trees. 



shipping. Two reliable summer varieties are the 
"Bartlett" and "Clapp's Favorite." See III. 2j. 
For autumn, "Sheldon" is suitable, and for early 
winter "Anjou" and "Clairgeau." 

The apple orchard should be divided into two 
departments; the first for domestic use, and the 
second for commercial purposes. For home use, 
in ordinary cases, two or three trees of the varieties 
named below will be sufficient for summer and early 
winter use. One of our best and earliest varieties 
is the "Yellow Transparent." Then follows the 
"Duchess of Oldenburg," "Snow," and "Wealthy." 
The balance of the orchard may be reserved for 
winter varieties, to be grown for export or the 
supply of our own markets. 

Ontario is specially adapted to apple growing, 
and production along this line is bound to become 
increasingly profitable owing to the large export 
demand, and the growing powers of consumption 
in our own western and city markets. Farmers 
should, therefore, take advantage of the opportunity 
open along this line and be prepared to supply the 
markets available. In many cases it will be found 
most advantageous to sell outright to shippers in the 
autumn, but in a number of instances better results 
are being obtained by farmers joining together and 
handling their crops through a co-operative associa- 
tion. The principal point to be borne in mind is the 
necessity of so disposing of the crop that it will not 
interfere with necessary fall work on the land, which 
farmers cannot afford to neglect. 

In planting out an orchard first decide on the 
varieties, not more than two or three, which it is 
intended to grow for commercial purposes, and see 
that good healthy young trees are obtained. 

For the commercial trade one of the best varieties 



THE ORCHARD. 



51 



23. CLAPP's FAVORITE PEAR. 



52 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



How to Graft. 



Pruning Apple 
Trees. 



Spraying 
Fruit Trees. 



is the "King." See III. 24. This is a good shipper, 
and commands a high price in the British market, 
but is a scant bearer. Other standard varieties are 
the "Spy," "Greening," and "Baldwin." The "Ben 
Davis " is one of the most prolific and also one of the 
best shipping apples, but the quality is decidedly 
inferior. As a long keeper it is without a superior. 
Many "Ben Davis" have been planted, and should 
the market become overstocked with this variety of 
fruit, either "King" or "Spies" should be grafted 
on the trees. 

If there are, say, four main branches to form 
the top, graft each alternate branch about three 
inches from the trunk, and horizontal, to form the 
top properly, and the balance the following year. 
Do not cut off the whole top in one year. 

The "Spy," when grafted, will bear in four or 
five years, whereas on its own stock it will not bear 
for fourteen or fifteen. Other varieties will bear in 
three or four years after grafting. The "Tolman 
Sweet" is one of the best varieties to graft on. Any 
of the following varieties will give satisfaction for 
export without grafting, viz., "Ontario," "Sutton 
Beauty," "Baldwin," and "Greening." 

Pruning fruit trees is an important matter. The 
time to begin is before the tree is planted, when the 
branches should be cut back and the top formed. 
Pruning should be done when the leaves are opening 
in the spring. When this work is attended to an- 
nually and properly there will rarely be any large 
limbs to cut off. 

Not the least important work in connection with 
fruit culture is protecting the trees and fruit against 
insect pests. With the proper utensils and materials 
this can be accomplished. First secure a good brass 
spraying pump mounted on a barrel supplied with 



THE ORCHARD. 



53 




tup; orchard. 55 

an agitator. Set the barrel on a cart, waggon or 
hand-cart, select a nozzle which is easily cleaned, 
and that will form a mist-like spray of the solution. 
As a fine spray cannot be thrown any distance, it is 
advisable to attach two nozzles to a bamboo pole 
(see III. 2j) and the hose fastened to the other end 
of the pole. 

For the treatment of scab, caterpillars, codling Bordeaux 
moth, bud moth, canker worm, leaf blight, etc., use 
poisoned Bordeaux mixture, by adding Paris green. 
This combination will destroy all masticatory and 
suctorial insects. The results are as good as if each 
were applied separately. The following is the for- 
mula: Copper sulphate, four pounds; lime, four 
pounds; Paris green, four ounces; water, forty 
gallons (one barrel). Dissolve the copper sulphate 
by suspending it in a bag (made of coarse material) 
in a wooden vessel containing about live gallons of 
water. It will dissolve more quickly in hot water. 
Slake the lime in another vessel, and strain through 
coarse sacking or a fine sieve ; dilute the slaked lime 
in half a barrel of water, then pour the copper 
sulphate solution into the barrel, with the diluted 
lime. Add water to make the forty gallons; then 
add the Paris green, which has been previously made 
into a paste with water. 

The first spraying should be done when the buds Time to Spray 
are swelling. The second spraying when the blos- 
soms have fallen. A third application may be 
necessary if any scab should appear on the fruit or 
disease on the leaves. • 

For blight, which frequently affects the leaves spraying 
of the potato plant, and later the tubers themselves, Potatoes - 
use the same Bordeaux mixture that is recommended 
for fruit trees, and for the potato beetle one pound 
of Paris green to a barrel of water, placed on a cart 



56 



KENNIES AGRICULTURE. 



or other one-horse vehicle, so that while the horse 
is walking between two rows of potatoes the wheels 
will be on the opposite side of the rows, with the 
rows thirty inches apart. A sprayer can be made 
with one-inch iron gas pipe, so as to spray four or 
six rows at a time. 




26. SPRAYING POTATOES I'OR BLIGHT. 



CHAPTER V. 

Farm Implements and Buildings. 

Purchase only such implements as are necessary 
and best suited for the different kinds of work for 
which they are intended. An expensive implement 
is not always the best. The rule should be to buy 
only such implements as are required, and on no 
account to buy an implement that is not required 
on the farm. The whole assortment of implements 
should be cared for in the best possible manner, with 
a view to extending their time of usefulness. 

The first thing is to provide an implement and 
tool house (see III. 27), and the second to see that 
every implement and tool is under cover and in its 
proper place when not in actual use. Exposure to 
rain and sun is ruinous to implements, even to those 
which are constructed of iron or steel. It is a saving 
of time and money to keep all the farm machinery, 
implements, etc., under cover, and in their place, 
and to keep every implement in good working order. 
The implements and tools should be painted 
occasionally, a work which may be done on mild 
days during the winter season. 

In one end of the implement house there should 
be a cheap fan forge, with an anvil and a few black- 
smith's tools. Most men, if at all handy, can do 
ordinary repairs on the farm, and save not only 
expense, but also the time of going to the blacksmith 
shop, which is often worth more than the cost of 
repairing. 

In addition to a blacksmith's bench and tools, in 
the same end of the implement building there should 



Purchasing 
Implements. 



Implement 
House. 



Blacksmith 
Forge and 
Tools. 



Carpenter's 
Bench and 
Tools. 



FARM IMPLEMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 59 

be a carpenter's bench, provided with such tools as 
are necessary to do ordinary woodwork repairs. 
Extra sets of whiffle-trees should be kept on hand in 
case of breakage, and hooks for all the spades, 
shovels, scythes, forks, etc. 

The location of the building should be convenient Location and 

° Dimensions of 

to both the barn and house (see page 102), and at the Building, 
same time be isolated for safety in case of fire. The 
size of the building must correspond to the require- 
ments of the farm. For a farm of, say, one hundred 
and fifty acres, a building sixty feet long by twenty- 
six feet wide (see III. 28) will not be too large for all 
the farm machinery, implements, waggons, sleighs, 
carriages, cutters, etc. The building need not be 
high. The floor should be low so that waggons and 
implements can be taken out or put in by hand. An 
earth floor slightly higher than the surrounding 
ground is all that is necessary. 

In a building sixty feet long, three doors are all Doors with 
that are required, each nine feet wide, with the 
spaces also nine feet. Hang the doors with pulleys 
on an iron bar running the whole length. The doors 
can all be opened without interfering with each 
other. 

The most important building on the farm is the Farm Barn - 
barn. The location of the barn has much to do 
with the profits of the farm. Not only has the hand- 
ling and storing of the crops to be considered, but 
the housing of the live stock, so as to get the best 
results at the least cost. 

The first thins: to be considered is the system of Adapted to 

. ° . J System of 

1 arming to be adopted. If dairying, will it be home Farming, 
dairying, or will the milk be sent to the factory, or 
is the intention to raise pure-bred stock? It may 
be that the farm and location are suitable for sum- 
mer grazing and selling the stock in autumn. In 



60 



RKXXIES AGRICULTURE. 




28. GROUND PLAN <<V POULTRY HOUSE. 



FARM IMPLEMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 



61 



this case little or no stabling is required. The 
method that many are following with good results 
is buying stock in the autumn, fattening them during 
the winter, and selling in the spring. This requires 
considerable stable-room. 

The different systems of farming require build- of hIt?ng n Ltve 
ings specially arranged, and, in giving the design stock dose 
for a barn, it will have to be on general principles. 
In the first place, it is desirable, for convenience, to 
have the live stock under one roof, or in buildings 
close together. Horses and cattle do all right in 
stone or concrete basement, sheeted on the inside 
with lumber. Sheep and pigs do better in separate 
and wooden buildings. Whether a barn with an 
end or side drive is preferable is a debatable question. 
With an end drive through the centre of the building 
there is a large amount of space lost, since the drive- 
way comes under the highest part of the roof. In a 
side drive, where the barn is over sixty feet long, it 
is necessary to have two drives. 

For a farm of from one hundred and fifty to two size of Bam. 
hundred acres, the barn should be sixty feet wide by 
one hundred feet long, with twenty-four feet posts. 
See Elevation 2Q. The mows are twenty-seven feet 
deep; the driveways twelve feet each, and the space 
between twenty-one feet, half of which is for the 
granary. The balance between the driveways is 
convenient for turning the waggons on, by driving 
in one way and out the other. When not required 
for storing grain the barn can also be used for storing 
chaff, which is too valuable to be used for bedding. 

The whole of the ground floor of the barn should Flooring Bam. 
be covered with two thicknesses of inch boards, ten 
or twelve inches wide. First cover with inch hem- 
lock nailed to the joists. Then cover with tar- 
paper, then a layer of pine boards, laid so as to break 



FARM IMPLEMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 



63 



the joints. The boards also require to be nailed to 
the joists to prevent rising caused by the steam from 
cattle underneath. The tar-paper, in addition to 
keeping vermin from eating the floor, prevents dust 




30. DOUBLE HARPOON HAY FORK. 



from passing through. It is advisable to have as 
few beams as possible. 

The barn doors should be hung with rollers on Doors and 
an iron bar. There should be sufficient windows for 
light, and these so arranged that even when the barn 
is filled with the crops a number of them will not be 
covered. 



(.4 



RENNIK S AGRICULTURE. 



Curb Roof. 



Sheeting Barn. 



Filling the 
Birn. 



U ii 1 ) i ling 
Grain. 



Entrance to 
Barn. 



Materials for 
Walls and 
Floors. 



sheaves. The double harpoon 
is all right for hay and peas 



The roof should not be higher than is necessary, 
which will save considerable in the cost. A curb 
roof economizes space, and with this style the barn 
can be better lighted. See Elevation 2g. 

The sheeting for the outside of a barn and the 
other farm buildings may be of pine boards, one inch 
thick and ten inches wide, dressed on the outside. 
The joints should be covered with battens, one inch 
by two and a half, which should be nailed on per- 
fectly perpendicular. 

In order to save time and labor the storing of 
crops requires special attention. There is no diffi- 
culty in filling the bottom portion of the mows, but the 
question is which is the most economical and practical 
method of filling the top portions, particularly with 

fork (see III. jo) 
but is useless for 
sheaves. 

The slings with double power pulleys (see III. ji) 
handle both sheaves and hay or peas in a fairly satis- 
factory way. One objection is that considerable 
time is lost in the field in putting them in proper 
shape. The rack lifter has many advocates, but 
there is time lost in raising the load, and again in 
lowering the rack and replacing it on the waggon. 
Sheaves can be handled fairly satisfactorily by 
having an extra man on a scaffold. 

It is an advantage but not necessary for a base- 
ment barn to be on the side of a bank. For the 
driveways it is advisable to build a wall twelve feet 
from the barn, and cover it with plank. This will 
keep the embankment back from the basement wall 
and allow more light and air into the basement. 

The material for basement walls may be either 
stone, brick or concrete, the latter being durable 
and satisfactory. The floors should be concrete. 



FARM [IMPLEMENTS AND IH/ILDINGS. 



65 



In building and arranging a basement for barn Light and Air 
(see III. 32) intended for live stock, it is essential to 
provide for light and pure air. See III. 2g. Accord- 
ing to scientific experiments, light is a prevention of 




IIA\ C \KKIi;i< V \l> SI,I NGS. 



many infectious diseases. It destroys bad germs, 
such as those of consumption and diphtheria. It is 
therefore important that we should arrange to get 



3BI 






I 



I 
I 



I 



I 



cr 



u 



o 
o 



Q O 
uj O 



h- 



L 



hh j 



U 




i^*- 



£1 



FARM IMPLEMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 67 

all the light possible, not only into our cattle stables, 
but into our dwelling houses. The floor of the base- 
ment should be above the barn yard, the walls ten 
feet high, with windows on all sides, so that the 
stables will be nearly as light as it is out-of-doors. 

Ventilation is all important. By properly ar- importance of 
ranged ventilation the impure air is removed and 
replaced by pure. This constant change of air in 
the stables is absolutely necessary to preserve the 
health of the animals. Many systems have been 
tested during the past few years, but so far none 
appear to be perfect in every detail. Perhaps the 
nearest approach to a satisfactory automatic ventila- 
tion is the stand-up pipe, with a cowl on top to face 
the wind, which conducts the fresh air down and 
into underground pipes leading into the stable. 
The distributing openings may be near the ceiling. 
As fresh air is charged with oxygen, it is consequently 
much heavier than the impure air that has been 
breathed by the animals, and will fall to where it 
is required, while the impure air, being lighter than 
the incoming fresh air, rises upwards through flues 
which open into the stable at the ceiling, and run up 
by a post through the roof. The portion above the 
roof may be a round galvanized pipe, twelve inches 
in diameter, with a flange around the top, and a 
dome one foot above to cause a suction. The ob- 
jection to this system is the cost. A second system 
is to have the cowl on the barn {see Elevation 2g) 
and the pipe leading down to the ceiling of the 
stable. About twelve inches below the ceiling hang 
a platform made of inch boards about five feet 
square, for the down draft to strike on and be dis- 
tributed. This system gives abundance of fresh 
air, but is not of so even a temperature as if it first 
passed through underground drain pipes. A third 



I'AK.M IMPLEMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 



(," 



Plan of 
Basement. 



and cheaper system is to have openings like fanlights, 
say twelve by thirty inches, at intervals around the 
walls, close to the ceiling. Fit in the openings 
frames hinged from the bottom, and made to open 
inwards from the top about one-third, or say, at an 
angle of about forty-live. These should be similar 
to the upper lights used in our railway coaches to 
supply fresh air. Tack muslin or cheap factory 
cotton on these frames. When the wind is blowing, 
the draft will be along the ceiling, instead of on the 
animals, and even when closed they will let in 
sufficient fresh air to keep the ceilings and the 
animals dry. 

The following plan of basement (see III. 32) is 
arranged for seven horses and fifty-two cattle, and 
a loose-box. The stable is so arranged that box 
stalls can be made in the cattle compartment by 
using hurdles (temporary gates). There are horse 
and cattle feed rooms, and also a root cellar on the 
north side. The size of barn and basement can be 
increased or decreased according to the requirements. 
The stanchion used in some districts has the advan- 
tage of a draw rod, which opens all the stanchions 
in a row (see III. 33), which can again be closed as 
soon as the cattle are free. The swinging stanchions 
allow the cattle more freedom. See III. 36. Stalls 
in cattle stables are not necessary. By having the 
cattle dehorned they may be let loose for exercise in 
the stable without being turned out of doors in cold 
weather. Cast-iron basins are fastened on the par- 
titions, arranged so that one basin will supply two 
animals. For details see the plan of basement (34). 

For location of the sheep pen, see farm diagram sheep Pen. 
( page 102). 

As cattle do not thrive on the .same pasture along Keep Cattle 
with sheep, it is advisable not to keep both, unless Aparf 



and Sheep 



70 



rennie's agriculture. 




FARM IMPLEMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 

they can be kept in separate pastures. For winter 
feeding, sheep (particularly lambs) give good re- 
turns when properly managed. In the hrst place, 
they require a dry building with plenty of light and 
fresh air. See Elevation jj. 

In deciding on the size of a building, allow from 
twenty to twenty-five square feet for each animal, 
according to the size. For the best average results 
there should not be too many together. A flock of 
sixty sheep will require a building thirty by sixty 
feet, with a passage on one side of five feet, leaving 



71 



Plan of 
Building. 




36. SWINGING STANCHION. 

an inside space of fifty-nine by twenty-three feet for 
the sixty sheep. This should be divided into four 
compartments (see Ground Plan jy) of fourteen by 
twenty-three feet each in the clear, which is ample 
for fifteen sheep. The centre is a plain partition, 
while the other two answer the double purpose of 
partition and feed rack. See III. 38. The bottom 
of the rack is a plank, sixteen inches wide, raised 
from the floor eight inches, and on each edge a six- 
inch board is nailed, projecting above the plank four 
inches, to form a trough. Another six-inch board 
is made stationary, and parallel to form top of rack, 
leaving a space between of two and a half feet. The 
uprights are inch boards, eight inches wide and three 
feet long, nailed at the bottom and top, leaving 



RliN X IE S AGRICULTURE. 



Portable 
Racks. 



spaces between of seven inches for the sheep to put 
in their heads and feed. Whether it be grain, roots, 
or coarse fodder, each sheep secures an opening and 
cannot be moved by another. The rack has an 
opening at each end. The entrance next the passage 
is for feeding, and the other is to clean out the refuse 
into the yard. See Plan 37. 

Portable racks made on the same principle are 



U 



s. 



I 

S 

I 



/V- **3 



/■ 



Ic HUT£ I 



'*. x 13 



"* x-2j> 



37. GROUND PLAN OF SHEEP HOUSE. 

Scale ,', inch to the foot. 



=U 



'*■ M^^J 



Construction of 
Sheep House. 



convenient for feeding sheep in the yard or field. 
See III. 38. 

An earth floor is all that is necessary for sheep. 
From floor to ceiling should be ten feet. The length 
of posts are sixteen feet from the ground to the 
plate, and with a curb roof leaves ample provision 
for clover, hay and other fodder. The stone or 
concrete foundation should only rise a few inches 
above the surface on which the posts stand. The 
outside sheeting may first be inch boards, put on 
horizontally and covered with tar-paper. Then 



Farm i m pi.ic.m i: \ 



AND BUILDINGS. 



73 



cover with ten-inch boards and two and a half 
battens, same as on the barn. It is important for 
the health of the sheep that they receive plenty of 
light. See Plan 33. 

The ventilation for the sheep house is just as im- 
portant as that for horses and cattle, and should be 
on the same principle. Sheep manure should not be 
allowed to accumulate in the pen. The gas from it 
is verv injurious to the health of the animals. 



/ j 

. 1 


1 1 


!'! 


m 


I j 




Mi 


iyi 


■in i 




yU 


L3L 




II 


1 1 


D 1 


1 1 


Ill 


B 8 




1 1 


■ ■ 



38. FEED RACK. 



Piggery. 

Not the least important of the farm buildings is pi gs in con- 
the piggery. The number of pigs that can be Dairy " *" 
profitably kept on a farm depends on circumstances. 
Pigs are more profitably fed in conjunction with a 
dairy. They make greater gain and give a better 
quality of pork when fed skim milk along with 
middlings and other foods. 

In deciding on the size of a building for a piggery, size of Piggery 
estimate four or live feeding pigs to consume the by- 
products of each cow, say forty-five feeding pigs for 
ten cows (see Elevation 59), and for space estimate 
twenty square feet for each pig weighing from one 
hundred to two hundred pounds each. A pen eight 
by ten feet that is, eighty square feet — is sufficient 
for fonr pigs not exceeding two hundred pounds 
each 

While the pig is by many considered a filthy 
animal, yet, when proper provision is made, there is 



A Clean 
Animal. 



74 



RENNIRS AGRICULTURE. 




FARM [MPLEMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 



75 



none more cleanly. In summer there is no difficulty 
in keeping the pens clean when the pigs have an 
outside yard, but in winter, when they must be kept 
inside where it is dry and warm, care and attention 
are necessary. 

While other animals are protected against the Pigs Require 
cold with a coat of hair or wool, the pig has almost Protection, 
no covering. For that reason it requires special 
protection in order to get the best returns for the 
food consumed. The doors leading to the outside 
yards must therefore be closed in winter. 

It is necessary at the back of pens to have a Gutters inside, 
gutter, which should be three feet wide and three 
inches deep. It is advisable to have the entire floor 
of the piggery made of cement, the beds raised two 
or three inches and covered with two-inch plank for 
protection against cold and dampness. The beds 
should have a three-inch scantling nailed on the 
edge to keep in bedding. The two seven-feet pens 
for brood sows (see Ground Plan 40) should be 
covered entirely with plank; also have a plank 
eight inches wide nailed to sides horizontally eight 
inches from the floor, to prevent the sow lying on 
her young pigs. 

It is important that a piggery should be con- 
structed so as to be both dry and warm in winter. A 
wooden building on a stone or cement foundation is 
considered the most satisfactory. The building 
should be double sheeted on the outside, with tar- 
paper between, also sheeted on the inside up to the 
ceiling. The posts may be twelve feet high from 
the foundation, which is level with the floor, viz., 
eight feet to the ceiling and four feet above. For 
the health of the animals it is necessary to let in all 
the light possible. See Elevation 39. The size of 
building given in plan is thirty-two feet wide by 



Wooden Build- 
ing on Stone or 
Cement 
Foundation. 



kl'.XXIK S AGRICULTURE. 



Convenience in 
Feeding. 



fifty-seven long. This allows three feet for the 
gutter in the rear, ten feet in depth for the pens, and 
five feet for the centre passage. The floor of the 
pen may be sloped to the gutter while the beds are 
elevated four or five inches, so that any filth that 
may accumulate can be swept into the gutter at the 
back. 

The trough is made Y-shaped, and for this cement 
is the most durable. The partition over and in 



/. /__/. /. / 




40. GROUND PLAN OF PIGGERV. 
.Scale ^ inch to the foot. 



Style of 
Building. 

Ventilation. 



Convenience of 
Buildings. 



front of trough should be on hinges, so that, for 
convenience in feeding, it can be swung to the inside 
edge of the trough. 

The roof should be the same style as the barn 
and sheep pen, for light and uniformity. 

The ventilation should be on the same principle 
as the basement of barn. See page 66. 

Farm buildings constructed according to the 
plans and specifications given are economical, con- 



FARM [MPLUMENTS AND BUILDINGS. 



77 



sidering the advantages for convenience and health 
of the animals. 

Painting farm buildings outside gives them a 
more attractive appearance, besides adding to their 
durability. In the erection of buildings it is advis- 
able to have all the lumber dressed on the outside. 
In painting, the first thing to decide is the color. 
This should not be too bright. A drab with the 
trimmings, viz., cornices, window and door casings, 
a shade darker, is quiet and attractive. The follow- 
ing mixture makes a satisfactory drab, and is not 
expensive, viz. : Seventy-five pounds of mineral 
drab and twenty-live pounds of white lead, mixed 
with boiled linseed oil, and thinned with creosote 
or benzine. The darker shade for the trimmings 
can be made by adding lamp-black or mineral red. 
For a brown color, use pulverized brown, material 
mixed with linseed oil to the consistency of cream, 
and thin with creosote or benzine. 

It is preferable to decide on a certain color and 
have all the buildings, etc., to harmonize. 

The following is the formula for the paint or 
whitewash used on the Government buildings in the 
United States: Slake half a bushel of good stone 
lime in boiling water, keeping it covered while 
slaking. Strain and add half a peck of salt dissolved 
in warm water, three pounds of rice boiled to a thin 
paste, and half a pound of clear glue dissolved in 
warm water. Mix all together, and let it stand for 
several days. Keep in a kettle, and apply as hot 
as possible with a brush. It can be colored by 
adding ochre, lamp-black, blueing, or any other 
color to suit. 



Painting Farm 
Buildings. 



Buildings, etc., 
to Harmonize. 



Paint usei for 
U.S. Govern- 
ment Buildings. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Underdraining. 

Having dealt with the immediate surroundings 
of the home, the dwelling, lawn, garden, orchard and 
buildings, let us now turn to the fields, on the pro- 
duction of which the maintenance of the home 
depends. 




JAPANESE CLEMATIS — PAXICl'LATA. (See p. 24." 



In the old days field work was hard and there 
was little to relieve the drudgery. To-day, with 
modern implements, and by applying the principles 
of science to the practice of agriculture, we accom- 
plish greater results with less labor and make farming 
as an occupation at once more interesting and more 
profitable. 



UNDERDRAINING. 



79 



Subsoiling 
Clay Lands. 



Proper drainage of the land forms the very basis 
of successful agriculture. The soil may be ever so 
rich, but without sufficient drainage, either natural 
or artificial, its production can never reach the limit 
of what is possible. 

It is seldom necessary to drain high, dry land. 
Deep subsoiling before seeding for either hoe or 
grain crops on such land gives very good results, 
especially on a clay subsoil. It improves the 
physical condition of clay soils by allowing the 
surface water to percolate into the subsoil and the 
air to circulate freely. A sandy or gravelly subsoil 
does not require loosening. 

The bacteria, or germs, necessary to decompose 
the vegetable matter can act only in dry, warm soil. 
Therefore, to get the best results, it is necessary to 
underdrain wet lands, as they are usually too cold. 

Underdraining removes the surplus water in 
early spring, and, by causing this surplus to per- 
colate through the soil to the drain, makes the land 
porous, and thus tends to retain moisture during the 
period of drought when it is needed. 

For underdraining there is nothing more suitable size of Drain 
than the ordinary round tile. Careful judgment 
should be used in the selection of the size of this, as 
the cost of underdraining is governed largely by the 
size of tile used. 

For a main drain, in ordinary cases five or six- 
inch tile may be used for the lower end and four-inch 
for the upper portion; two and one-half inch to 
three-inch tile should be used for the laterals, or 
branches. 

Drains should be from two and one-half to three Depth of 

Orpins 

feet deep. The distance apart between the laterals 
is governed by the quantity of water to be carried off 



Where Drains 
are Needed. 



Effect of 
Underdraining. 



80 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE- 



Distance 
Between 
Drains. 



and the quality of the subsoil through which the 
drains run. 

In a tenacious clay soil, forty feet apart would be 
considered an average distance between laterals. In 
a porous soil these may be from sixty to seventy-five 
feet apart. 



41. DRAINING SPADE. 



Construction 
of Drain. 



Connecting to 
Subsoil Plow. 



In commencing to drain, open up the land with 
an ordinary plow by passing three or four times in 
the same track. The subsoil can then be loosened 
with an ordinary subsoil plow See III. g. 

In hitching to the subsoil plow, fasten a chain 
six or seven feet long to the point of beam and move 
the chain back on the beam as the drain is deepened. 




42. 



•Rl' \I MKR. 



Putting the 
Earth Out of 
the Drain. 



The evener or double tree will require to be six or 
seven feet long so that the horses will travel outside 
of the earth thrown out, one on each side. 

The earth thus loosened will require to be thrown 
out after every round made bv the subsoiler. This 
is done with narrow shovels until the drain is the 
required depth. 

The bottom of the drain should be dug wi h a 



UNDERDRAINING. 



81 



narrow draining spade (see III. 41) made specially {^Drain " 01 " 

for this purpose. The loose earth is thrown out 

with a "crummer." See III. 42. 

)■■ To secure the proper grade for the bottom of a Grading. 

drain, one method is to use several cross-heads made 

from strips of one-inch boards three or four inches 




43. DRAINING. 



wide. Place the cross-heads so that the cross pieces 
are in line. The proper grade is ascertained by 
using an ordinary spirit-level. When ready to lay 
the drain, set a standard, or the handle of the 
crummer, on the bottom of the drain, and mark in 
line with the tops of the cross-heads. This will give 
a true grade for the tiles. See III. 43. 



82 



A Satisfactory 
Method. 



REM Ml-. S AGRICULTURE. 

A second method is to fasten a spirit-level on a 
straight-edge about eight feet long. First find the 
grade that can be secured and mark the level 
accordingly, which will decide the grade on bottom 
of the drain. 




44. CONNECTING TIT.ES IN DRAIN. 



Laying Tiles. 



When laying the tiles, turn them so that the 
joints fit close and make sure that they are firmly 
laid. For connections, make an opening in the 
main drain tile with a steel chisel, fitting the lateral 
tight. Tiles made with connections are more con- 
venient. See III. 44. 



UNDERDRAWING. 



83 



In covering, put sods or the black surface soil Covering Tiles, 
next to the tiles. The reason for this is that the 
surface soil is composed of vegetable matter and 
will prevent the subsoil from getting in at the joints. 

If the drains are properly laid, the least per- Diagram 
ceptible fall will be sufficient to carry off the water mpor 
without clogging. A correct diagram of all drains 
should be made and kept for future reference. 




EARLY SOY BRANS. 



Worn-Out 
Land. 



How to Restore 
and Maintain 
Fertility. 



Causes of 
Wom-Out 
Land. 



Application of 

Vegetable 

Matter. 



Advantages of 
Humus. 



Humus All 
Important. 



CHAPTER VII. 
Cultivation of the Soil. 

Many farms in the older sections of the country 
have become exhausted by too deep plowing, which 
has buried the vegetable matter with the crude 
subsoil, and thus made it unavailable for plant food. 
This practice is contrary to the laws of nature. 

In our new and fertile lands we find the vegetable 
matter on the surface — where it properly belongs. 
By shallow plowing, thorough cultivation, and a 
systematic rotation of crops, the fertility of the soil 
can be maintained indefinitely. 

Worn-out land is really land on which the 
vegetable matter 'humus) has been buried, or de- 
stroyed by continuous cropping with grain. 

Such land can be renewed only by applying 
vegetable matter on the surface and incorporating 
it with the surface soil so that it will decompose and 
form what is termed humus. 

Humus has a distinct value apart from the plant 
food it contains. It absorbs and retains moisture 
much more readily than any other soil ingredient, 
so that a soil rich in humus will withstand drought 
without drying out and becoming hard. 

Humus aids in the decomposition of mineral 
matter in the soil. It also fixes ammonia of animal 
matter and thus prevents it from being lost by 
leaching or evaporation. It improves the texture 
and mechanical condition of a heavy soil, making it 
lighter, more porous and less adhesive or sticky. On 
a sandy soil, humus serves to bind together the loose 
particles of sand and so prevents the soil from drift- 
ing, and arrests the excessive leaching of plant food. 



CULTIVATION' <>!•' THE SOIL. 



85 



Mineral fertilizers such as gypsum, lime, salt, 
etc., may be used on a soil that is well supplied with 
vegetable matter to change it into available plant 
food quickly; but as these are only stimulants and 
contain little plant food in themselves, their con- 
tinued use exhausts the soil of its supplies of vege- 
table matter, and the result is a more rapid and 
complete exhaustion of fertility. 

Without humus the soil loses its retaining power, 
and when these mineral fertilizers are dissolved they 
either evaporate or leach down beyond the reach of 
most plants. 

Science has proved that there is sufficient mineral 
matter in all ordinary soil to supply the necessary 
amount of phosphates required in growing crops for 
hundreds of years, provided a systematic rotation of 
crops is followed whereby clovers or some other 
deep-rooted plants are grown every third or fourth 
year to penetrate the subsoil and act on the crude 
mineral matter, making a certain portion available 
for plant food to supply the following grain and 
other crops forming the rotation. 

The practical florist can give in a lesson the 
value of humus. He understands that the best soil 
he can use for growing plants successfully is rotten 
sod, and none is better than the original sod from 
land that has not been plowed or mixed in any way 
with the crude subsoil. The florist cuts this sod 
three or four inches thick, piles it up for a time and 
then turns it over frequently, thereby exposing it to 
heat, air and moisture — the three essentials for rot- 
ting vegetable matter. After the sods are thor- 
oughly rotted and mixed with decomposed farmyard 
manure, they are ready for use, and flower pots may 
be filled and the plants set in them and watered. 
The plants will grow and develop perfectly with 



Mineral 
Fertilizers 
Only 
Stimulate. 



Liquid 

Minerals are 
Lost without 
Humus. 



Exhaustless 
Quantities of 
Mineral 
Matter. 



Value of 
Native SoJ. 



86 



REXXIES AGRICULTURE. 

very little attention, as this kind of soil will hold 
water like a sponge and will not get hard or crack 
open. This illustration will furnish valuable in- 
formation for the women folk in growing house 
plants. 

The method followed by the old-time florist was 
to take soil, regardless of vegetable matter, have it 






JEAN CROP IX WESTERN ONTARIO 



analyzed to find exactly what proportions of nitro- 
gen, potash, phosphoric acid, etc., were required for 
plant growth. After the soil was thoroughly pre- 
pared with the necessary fertilizers incorporated in 
it, the pots were filled with plants and watered, 
same as the soil made from rotted sod. The results 
are entirely different. The soil prepared with fer- 
tilizers without humus will require watering at least 
every other day, otherwise it will get hard and 
compact and the plants will die for lack of moisture. 
If it is kept thoroughly watered, the fertilizers will 



CULTIVATION OF THE SOIL. 87 

soon become dissolved and leach down beyond the 
reach of the plants and so become useless. 

From the above illustration we understand that 
the fertility of the soil depends largely upon the 
amount and quality of vegetable matter it contains. 

When we speak of worn-out land we do not mean Worn-out 
the quality of the subsoil, as that undergoes little Lack of 
or no change. The whole difficulty is in the lack of Humus - 




46. LAND ROLLER. 



vegetable matter on the surface. When this is 
destroyed by deep plowing and lack of a proper 
system of rotation, the soil will become hard and 
crack open unless there is rain every few days 
throughout the summer months. Soil which lacks 
decomposed vegetable matter is of a light color, 
while a rich soil, filled with humus, is dark. 

In adopting a system of rotation of crops, a bare Bare Summer 
summer fallow need not be included, because plow- 
ing, harrowing and cultivating the land several times 



Fallow. 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Cultivation 

Makes 

Vegetable 

Matter 

Soluble. 



Renewing 
Worn-Out 
Lands. 



Minerals, 
Converted. 



during the summer season adds nothing to its fer- 
tility, and is particularly destructive to the humus. 

Summer fallowing temporarily puts the soil in 
better condition by improving the tilth, thus making 
the plant food already in the soil soluble, so that 
a crop of wheat or any other grain will grow luxur- 
iantly, but a large portion of plant food is lost 
through leaching and evaporation. In addition to 
this there is the loss of one season's crop and also 
much of the cost of labor spent in cultivating the 
land while under summer fallow. 

Vegetable matter and nitrogen are the two most 
essential elements in improving the fertility of the 
soil, and both are easily supplied by adopting shallow 
plowing and growing an abundance of alfalfa and 
red clover, or other leguminous plants that are 
adapted to collect free nitrogen from the air and 
deposit it in the soil. 

The roots of alfalfa and red clover act upon the 
crude mineral matter and convert it to available 
plant food. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Cultivating and Seeding. 
To prepare worn-out land for a systematic Preparing for 

r , . . . Rotation. 

rotation ot crops, plow in the spring, not more than 
four inches deep, then roll with a heavy roller. III. 




47. 



■] kl \r, TOOTH CULTTV \T<>R 



46. This will press the shallow furrow on the subsoil 
and connect the moisture from the subsoil into the 
furrow by what is known as capillary attraction. 
Moisture rises from the subsoil to the surface by the 
heat of the sun drying the surface soil and the fibre 
of decomposed plant roots. This is called "capil 
lary attraction." 



90 



Preventing 
Evaporation. 



REXXIE S AGRICULTURE. 

To prevent the moisture from escaping through 
evaporation, the connection must be cut off below 
the surface. This is accomplished by keeping the 
surface cultivated, thus forming a mulch which 
keeps the soil moist. Decomposition is also 
hastened in the same way by the three essentials for 




48. STIFF TOOTH CULTIVATOR. 



Cleaning Land 
of Weeds. 



rotting vegetable matter — "heat," by plowing in 
warm weather; "air," by shallow plowing; "mois- 
ture," by rolling and harrowing. 

If there are any thistles, couch-grass or weeds 
of any kind, they will soon start to grow under this 
treatment. When nicely started, cut them off two or 
three inches below the surface with wide points on 
the cultivator, either the "spring" or " stiff- tooth " 



CULTIVATING AND SEEDING. 



91 



(Ills. 47 and _/£) , then harrow, shaking out the roots 
to dry in the sun. In about ten days repeat the 
cultivating and harrowing. 

The land should now be in a good condition for J. nc '?a sin e 

1,1 , Fertility. 

growing a green crop to plow under later, to supply 
vegetable matter. Sow, with a grain drill (77/. 56), 
the following mixture: 1 bushel of peas or vetches, 
half a bushel of buckwheat, and four pounds of 
Essex rape, to the acre. 




"-£**&**= 



49. PLOW WITH REVOLVING COULTER. 



When the grain is in bloom plow the whole under Plowing under 
about four inches deep, using a chain attached to 
the beam of plow and the end of evener or double 
tree, forming a loop to draw the green crop under 
the furrow. A revolving coulter (III. 49) is pre- 
ferable to the common straight coulter. Roll and 
harrow immediately the land that has been plowed. 
In about ten days the green crop will be sufficiently 
rotted to allow the use of the cultivator followed by 
the harrow. 

If any or all of the land that has been treated 
according to the foregoing directions is wanted for 
fall wheat, apply farmyard manure at the rate of 
ten or twelve loads per acre. The manure should 



Preparing for 
Fall Wheat. 



CULTIVATING AND SEEDING. 



93 



be well rotted so as not to interfere with cultivating, 
which is preferable to plowing before sowing. 

In order to pulverize the manure and spread it Manure 

1 r Spreader. 

on the land evenly, so that it will not interfere with 
the cultivation or drilling in of the grain, it is ad- 
visable to use a manure spreader. See III. 30. This 
machine spreads the manure much more evenlv 
than it can be done with a fork and does the work 
very much more quickly. 

If the manure is not sufficiently rotted and inter- 
feres with the cultivator it should be gang-plowed 




51. ADJUSTABLE SPIKE-TOOTH HARROW. 



under shallow, then rolled and harrowed. If the 
subsoil is a tenacious clay it should be loosened with 
a subsoil plow (see III. g) or a stiff-tooth cultivator 
(see III. 48). If the subsoil is very hard it may be 
necessary to cross cultivate in order to break up the 
subsoil to a depth of about ten inches before sowing. 
If the subsoil is sand or gravel, deep subsoiling is not 
necessary. 

It is advisable to sow fall wheat with the grain 
drill to secure a uniform depth. Finish off with a 
spike-tooth harrow (77/. 5/) or a Breed weeder. 
This prevents water from lodging in the creases made 
by the grain spouts and freezing in winter, which 
is liable to injure the wheat plants. With the fore- 
going preparation a good wheat crop may be reason - 



Sowing 
Fall Wheat. 



94 



RKXXTRS AGRICULTURE. 



Increasing the 
Fertility of the 
Soil. 



ably expected and a fair start made in a systematic 
rotation. 

While the green crop and farmyard manure 
which has been prepared and worked into the surface 
soil will provide the necessary amount of vegetable 
matter and nitrogen for the wheat crop, provision 
should be made for increasing the fertility of the soil 
by seeding the fall wheat with clover to provide a 
further supply of vegetable matter and nitrogen 
(two essential elements of fertility). Three pounds 
of timothv seed mav be sown with the fall wheat. 




52. \YHEKLBARRO\Y GRASa aEEDER. 



Sowing 
Timothy Seed. 



Sowing Clover 
Seed. 



Harrowing 
Fall Wheat in 
Spring. 



Sow the timothy seed in front of the grain spouts 
so that it will be scattered between the rows of 
grain. If sown behind the grain spouts the timothy 
seed will fall in the creases with the grain and is 
liable to be choked out. 

Clovers require to be sown in the early spring 
with a grass seed sower (see 111. 52) at the rate of 
about eight pounds of red clover and three pounds 
of alsike clover seed per acre. 

After the clovers are sown and the land is dry 
it is an advantage to harrow across the rows of wheat 



CULTIVATING AND SEEDING. 



95 



to pulverize the surface soil that will have formed 
a crust during winter. 

Another method of preparing exhausted land Restoring 
for a systematic rotation is to plow the land shallow Land, 
with either a single or two-furrow gang plow as soon 
as the crops are off in the early autumn, then roll 
and harrow immediately. 

In about ten days cultivate and harrow to en- 
courage the growth of any weeds or weed seeds that 
may be in the soil. Cultivate a second time in 
about ten days with the wide points to cut off all 
weeds, then give a stroke with the harrows to shake 
the weeds out to dry. 



Destroying 
Weeds and 
Weed Seeds. 




53. SET OF RIBBERS. 



In October spread ten or twelve loads of farm- Manuring and 
yard manure per acre as far as can be had, and 
cover same by ribbing the land with a single or 
double mould-board plow; or a still better method 
is to use a set of three "libbers" (III. 53) attached 
either to the frame, of a spring-tooth cultivator or a 
stiff-tooth subsoiler. 

With this implement one man and three horses Gang or Rit>- 

•1 ■ 1 1 „ r ,, c oers on Sub- 

can rib seven or eight acres per day. With nve soiier Frame, 
ribbers and four horses ten acres can be ribbed each 
day. Make ribs about twenty inches wide so that 



96 



KK.XXIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Eyes of Weeds 
are Near the 
Surface. 



Deep Plowing 
Transplants 
Perennial 
Weeds. 



Plowing Down 
Weed Seeds 
Pollutes the 
Soil. 



they ma}' be easily levelled down in spring by 
harrowing and cultivating. Land prepared in this 
manner will be in the best possible condition for 
early spring sowing. 

All the buds or eyes on thistle roots and other 
perennial weeds are near the surface of the ground, 
and the roots that run down deep into the subsoil 
are only feeders and have no buds or eyes to start 
a new plant. 

By plowing say seven inches deep all the buds 
are left in the furrow and will sprout and grow 
quickly — several plants from each root. Thus, in 
many cases, deep plowing multiplies the plants in- 
stead of reducing their number. 

Plowing down weed seeds is ruinous to the land, 
as many varieties of weed seeds will, if excluded from 
the air, retain their vitality in the soil for fifteen 
and twenty years 



CHAPTER IX. 



Destroying Weeds. 

The correct method to adopt for increasing soil 
fertility and ridding the soil of weeds and weed seeds, 
both annual and perennial, is shallow plowing and 
thorough cultivation early in the autumn, using the 
wide points on the cultivator and harrowing al- 
ternately. 

All seeds near the surface will germinate and 
grow quickly and the roots of perennials will send 
up shoots. The simplest method of exterminating 
these is to cut them off below the surface when 
about three inches high or before the leaves are 
fully developed. 

This work can be done expeditiously with either 
a spring or stiff-tooth cultivator with wide points 
regulated to cut two or three inches below the 
surface. See Ills. 47 and 48. 

When the weed plants are growing they derive 
their nourishment from the soil through the roots, 
but after the leaves are fully developed they collect 
a certain amount of nutriment from the atmosphere. 
Care should, therefore, be taken that they are cut 
down before the leaves are developed. After the 
land has been cultivated and harrowed in the manner 
described, a hot summer sun will kill all the weeds 
thus cut off. 

If this operation is repeated at intervals of two 
weeks until September, the land will be quite cleared 
of all perennial weeds and annual foul seeds that 
were on or near the surface. When land has been 
treated in the manner described in the foregoing 
paragraphs it will be in good condition to grow a 
grain crop of any kind. 



To Clean the 
Land from 
Weeds and 
Weed Seeds. 



Hasten 
Germination. 



Best Imple- 
ment to Use. 



When to Cul- 
tivate. 



Cultivate and 
Harrow at 
Intervals. 



98 



REN XII-: S AGRICULTURE. 



Manure and 
Rib for Spring 
Grain. 



Ribbing 
Preserves 
Plant Food. 



Spring 
Cultivation. 



Advantages of 
Ribbing. 



Ribbing North 
and South. 



Quality of 
Seed Grain. 



If it is decided to sow grain in the spring, instead 
of fall wheat, coarser manure may be spread over 
the surface and ribbed in October with a double 
mould-board, plow, or ribbing attachment on a 
cultivator frame. 

Ribbing prevents the soluble plant food from 
leaching away during the winter. When the land 
is "ribbed" the rains and melting snows run off in 
the furrows without interfering with the manure 
and humus which are preserved in the centre of the 
ribs. Make the ribs about twenty inches wide. 
When land is ribbed in the fall it allows the frost 
to break up the subsoil and loosen it. Run across 
furrows wherever necessary to carry off all surface 
water and make proper outlets for same, so that 
there will be no pools of water standing on the land 
intended for seeding. 

In the spring, if the subsoil is a sandy loam, the 
ribs are harrowed and cultivated down with a spring- 
tooth cultivator; if the subsoil is clay it will be 
necessary to use the stiff-tooth subsoiler to loosen 
the subsoil ten inches deep. The ground should be 
harrowed before the grain drill is used. 

Grain crops, such as wheat, oats or barley, 
should be sown as earl}' in the spring as possible. 
When the land has been ribbed and cross furrowed 
in the fall it is in a fit state for seeding very much 
earlier than land which has not been ribbed. 

An advantage is gained by running the ribs 
north and south, so that the sun will shine into the 
furrows and dry out both sides of the ribs. 

Use only sound and well matured grain for seed. 
When every kernel is fully developed and the land in 
a high state of cultivation, the following quantities 
are quite sufficient per acre: Barley, one and one- 
half bushels; wheat and oats, one and one-quarter 
bushels. 



DESTROYING WEEDS. 



99 



The best method of sowing clover and timothy Sowing clover 
seed with grain, when the grain drill is used, is to 
sow the clover and timothy in front of the grain 
spouts, or tubes, so that it will be scattered on the 
surface. After sowing, give a stroke with the 
harrows or Breed weeder crossways to smooth 
the surface. Sec III. 66. 

Do not roll until the land is thoroughly dry, even when to Roil, 
if by that time the grain is two or three inches high. 
If the land is rolled in the early spring when it is 
damp, a crust is liable to form which will encourage 
capillary attraction and so cause the moisture in 
the soil to rise to the surface and become evapor- 
ated. Rolling after the land has been thoroughly 
dried prevents this, as the lumps of earth on the 
surface are then pulverized, thus forming a mulch 
which prevents evaporation. 

To further increase the humus in the soil cut the How to 
clover early the following year for hay, say about Fertuffyand 
the middle of June. When the second growth is weeds ate 
coming into bloom, plow under about four inches 
deep, using a revolving coulter and chain as before 
described. Roll, and harrow thoroughly. 

In about two weeks the sod will be sufficiently 
rotted to cultivate with a spring-tooth cultivator, 
By cultivating several times with wide points, and 
harrowing alternately during the summer and early 
fall, all weeds and weed seeds should be destroyed. 

In the autumn, spread over the surface ten or Manure and 

Rib 

twelve loads of farmyard manure per acre and rib as 
before described. In the spring, when the ribs have 
been levelled down, the manure and rotted clover sod 
will have become thoroughly incorporated, making 
the very best quality of vegetable matter for growing 
crops of all kinds. Land treated in this manner will be 
in good condition to grow abundant crops continuous- 
ly, provided a systematic rotation of crops is followed. 



Sod will Rot in 
Two Weeks. 



Clover and 

Farmyard 

Manure. 



Make Vege- 
table Matter 
Available. 



A Four Years' 
Course. 



Dividing Farm 
into Sections. 



CHAPTER X. 
Rotation of Crops. 

To secure the best results from the farm, certain 
principles must be adhered to in order that the 
fertility of the soil may not only be retained but 
increased, and that at the least possible cost. In 
order to do this one of the first steps to be taken is 
to adopt a system of rotation which will be best 
suited to the circumstances. Location must be 
considered as well as the kinds of soil and the number 
and kinds of animals to be provided for. 

It is essential that a crop of clover sod be plowed 
under every three or four years, in addition to all 
the manure made on the farm, in order to supply 
the amount of vegetable matter required for the 
proper growth of cereal and other crops. 

It is not only necessary to fill the soil with 
vegetable and animal matter, but these must be 
made available for plant food lie fore the crops can 
derive any benefit from them. This is accomplished 
by thorough cultivation in warm weather, as vege- 
table matter will not decompose when cold. 

The following rotation is the best for mixed 
farming, and was followed with marked success by 
the writer for a number of years on his own farm, 
and during the six years he was farm superintendent 
at the Ontario Agricultural College. 

The farm proper is divided into four sections 
(see Diagram j4) instead of many small fields, as is 
the usual custom, and is cropped as follows: — 

First and second years (Nos. 1 and 2 sections;, 
grass, including hay and pasture; third year (No. 3 



ROTATION oF CROPS. 



101 



section), hoc crops— corn for silage, rape, potatoes, 
mangel wurzel, etc., the balance in peas; fourth 
year (No. 4 section), grain, cereal crops, such as 
wheat, barley and oats, all of which should be seeded 
down with the following mixture: Red clover seed, 
seven pounds; alsike clover seed, three pounds; 
timothy seed, four pounds per acre, mixed. 

In this four years' rotation several variations 
may be made. If more grain is required and less 
meadow and pasture, a portion of No. 2 section may 
be plowed shallow after the grass is cut, or pastured, 
early in August, then rolled and harrowed im- 
mediately. 

The harrowing should lie done thoroughlv, as it 
is by having a fine tilth on the surface that moisture 
is conserved in dry weather, and this is one of the 
most important essentials in rotting sod quickly. 

Many farmers do not appear to understand the 
proper mode of harrowing; when harrowing twice 
in a place they invariably return in the same track 
instead of half-lapping so that all the land may be 
harrowed evenly. 

The three essentials to decompose vegetable 
matter quickly and form humus are heat, air and 
moisture, and these are supplied by plowing in July 
and August when the weather is warm for heat, 
shallow plowing will let in the air, and the moisture 
can be conserved in the sod by first compacting it 
with a heavy roller, thus drawing the moisture from 
below by capillary attraction, then harrowing to 
prevent evaporation from the surface. 

Under this treatment sdd will rot quickly, and, 
if cultivated with the wide points on the cultivator, 
and harrowed alternately until the fall, the land will 
be cleaned of weeds, and a large amount of plant food 
will be made available for fall wheat or spring grain. 



Variation of 
Rotation to 
Meet 
Requirements. 



Harrow Sod 
Thoroughly to 
Conserve 
Moisture. 



Harrowing- 
Half-Lapping. 



How to Rot 
Sod Quickly. 



Cultivate and 

Harrow 

Alternately. 



HOW TO RESTORE & MAINTAIN SOIL FERTILITY, 
SYSTEMATIC ROTATION OF CROPS, 
A FOUR YEARS COURSE 

ISO ACRE FARM. 



N?l SECTION. 

FIRST YEAR 

HAY or PASTURE 

30 ACRES. 



N?2 SECTION. 
2nd YEAR 

Hay, Pasture 
or Grain. 

30 ACRES. 



N9 4 SECTION. 

FALL WHEAT. 

SPRING WHEAT. 

BARLEY. 

OATS. 

30 ACRES. 



N? 3 SECTION. 

Peas, 

SUoaf^ Beets. 

Carrots, TUkNips. 
Potatoes, 

1 CORN. 

30 ACRES. 



SOUTH. M I G M W/W. 

54. DIAGRAM m FARM. 




IK TO MOO. 



ROTATION ol* CROPS. 



103 



The following year the whole of No. 2 section, 
including the sod left from the previous year, and 
the stubble land, may be plowed with a two-furrow 
gang-plow (77/. 33) by adding a third horse for the 
sod. 

If the land is too dry and hard, use a single plow 
with wheel to regulate the depth (III. 40). By 
keeping the humus on the surface there will be no 
difficulty, after a few years, in plowing sod in the 
summer, as humus will not get hard. Hasten de- 
composition, as before described, by having the 
ground rolled and harrowed immediately after 
plowing. 

Early fall is the best time to clean the land of 
weeds and weed seeds for the next season's hoe 
crop, and with proper implements the work of fall 
cultivation can be done thoroughly while there is 
no crop on the ground. The broad-share cultivator 
and harrow should be kept going alternately at 
short intervals until October. By that time the 
land should be in fine tilth and free from weeds or 
weed seeds that may be near the surface. 

All the farm manure that is on hand should be 
spread on the surface at the rate of about fifteen 
two-horse waggon loads per acre and covered by 
ribbing the land with the attachment (see III. 33) 
on the cultivator frame, making the ribs about 
twenty inches wide. 

The manure will then be in the centre of the ribs, 
which will prevent it from leaching and being lost. 
The decomposed vegetable matter in the ribs will 
act as an absorbent and prevent the liquid manure 
and ammonia from escaping. 

The furrows tend to drain the land and allow the 
frost to act on the subsoil. If the ribs are run 
north and south the land will dry several days 



Plow Sod and 
Stubble Land. 



Plowing in 
Summer. 



Fall Cultivation 
—Best Time to 
Clean the Land. 



Manuring and 
Ribbing Before 
Winter. 



Advantages o: 
Ribbing. 



Ribbing North 
and South. 



ROTATION n|.* iKiii'S. 105 

sooner in spring. Cross furrows must be run wher- 
ever necessary to carry off all surface water. 

If there is not sufficient manure on hand in the Manuring in 

Winter. 

fall to cover the whole of this section, the portion 
that is left without manure should not be ribbed, 
so that it can be manured on the surface during the 
winter. In spreading manure in the winter, when 
the ground is frozen, double the usual quantity 
should be put on the knolls or small hills, as a certain 
portion will leach to the lower land. 

In the event of weed seeds being in the green stacking Green 
manure it is advisable to stack it in the barn yard, 
from winter until autumn, in order to destroy all 
seeds. There is little loss of fertility where the 
following method is adopted: Make a heap thirty 
or more feet square; keep the sides plumb; mix all 
the manure made on the farm; should be six or 
eight feet high. This will make a valuable compost 
heap. All the rainfall on this small surface will be 
absorbed in the manure. Keep the top level. 

On rolling land it is advisable to manure and rib M i a , n Ro'j li i n ncl 
in the fall, so that all the liquid in the manure will Land. 
be absorbed in the rotted sod contained in the ribs. 
This completes the fall work on section No. 2, 
which is to be followed with a hoe crop in section 
No. 3. 

After making due allowance for the hoe crops, *^|£ Land for 
including corn, rape, turnips, potatoes, mangel 
wurzels, etc., in this section, the balance is sown 
with peas, the highest portion of the section pre- 
ferred, as a pea crop is usually followed with fall 
wheat. If this sod land was thoroughly cultivated 
the previous autumn, manured and ribbed, in the 
spring these ribs will require to be levelled down by 
cultivating, harrowing and subsoiling ten inches 
deep. This will keep the soil dry and warm — a very 
desirable condition for growing peas. 



106 



ki:\ NIK S AGRICULTURE. 



Preparation for 
Field Roots and 
Other Hoe 
Crops. 



Advantage of 
Sowing Peas 
with the Grain 
Drill. 



Depth to Plant 
Seeds. 



The portion of land intended for mangel-wurzels, 
sugar beets and carrots should be prepared by 
thorough cultivation, manuring and ribbing accord- 
ing to the foregoing directions so that the soil will 
be in good condition for early cultivation in the 
spring. It is important that those seeds be sown 
early in the spring, about the end of April or early 
in May. Farm manure as a rule should be applied 
previous to the hoe crops, as it promotes rank 
growth, which is desirable for fodder corn and roots. 

It is advisable to sow the peas with an ordinary 
grain drill (III. 36), which will plant the seed at a 
uniform depth and so ensure the plants making an 
equal start. If the seeds are not planted at a uni- 
form depth, the crop returns become a question of 
the survival of the fittest, the rank, luxuriant plants 
choking out the others. 

As to the depth to plant peas, in all seeds, a good 
rule to follow is to plant to a depth of four or five 
times the diameter of the seed. Two to three and 
a half bushels should be sown to the acre, according 
to the size of the peas. As peas are large and do not 
stool from the root like other grain, it is necessary 
to sow them more thickly. 



CHAPTER XI. 

Grain Growing. 

Peas should be harvested before they are quite Harvesting 



ripe, as the straw of peas is of exceptional value for 
feeding to animals, rating next to clover hay, which 
is the highest in nutritive value of all fodders. The 



Peas. 



56. GRAIN DRILL. 

most satisfactory implement for harvesting peas 
is the "pea harvester" with bunching attachment, 
which can be attached to any mowing machine 
(77/. 57). The peas should be drawn into the barn 
soon after being cut, say within one or two days. 
A shower of rain will do much harm to the straw, 
and long exposure to the sun will make the straw- 
brittle and unlit for fodder. 



GRAIN GROWING. 



109 



Peas may be successfully threshed with the 
ordinary threshing machine by placing pulleys on 
each end of the cylinder shaft double the circumfer- 
ence of those ordinarily used. This will run the 
cylinder at half speed, while the rest of the machin- 
ery is on full speed. Take all the spikes out of the 
concave except four. 

Because of the prevalence of the pea bug, or 
weevil, many farmers have given up trying to grow 
this valuable crop. In sections of the country 
where the pea bug prevails, the seed should be 
treated with carbon bisulphide to destroy the bugs. 
This should be done early in the fall while the insects 
are in the embryo state and before they have done 
any material injury to the peas. 

The following method of treatment is very 
effective and easily followed. Use an air-tight box 
that will hold ten or twenty bushels. Fill the box 
with peas and set a dish on top of the peas containing 
one pound of carbon bisulphide, which is sufficient 
to treat fifteen bushels, close the lid, making it as 
air-tight as possible, and leave for three days. At 
the end of the three days the carbon bisulphide will 
have evaporated and penetrated all the peas in the 
box, completely destroying the insect germs that 
are in the peas without injuring the peas. Care 
should be taken to keep away any flame, as the ma- 
terial is very inflammable. If all the farmers in a 
neighborhood would unite and treat their peas, it 
would not be necessary to repeat this every year. 

As soon as the peas are taken off the land should 
be plowed shallow with the two-furrow plow, rolled, 
and immediately harrowed ; cultivated and harrowed 
alternately until it is time to sow the fall wheat. 

The rotted sod, farm manure and pea stubble 
will supply the nitrogen and other elements neces 



Threshing 
Peas. 



How to Destroy 
the Pea Bug. 



Method of 
Treatment. 



Cultivation of 
Pea Land for 
Fall Wheat. 



Elements of 
Fertility. 



110 



KKNXIES AGRICULTURE. 



Subsoiling 
Clay Land. 



Time to Sow 
Fall Wheat. 



Quantity to 
Sow. 



How to Destroy 
Smut Spores. 



Prevent 
Heating. 



Smut Spores 
Feed on Plant. 



sary for the healthy growth of a crop of fall wheat 
or any other grain crop. 

Before the fall wheat is sown the land should be 
subsoiled nine or ten inches deep with four horses 
on the subsoiler (III. z), unless the subsoil is of a 
sandy or porous nature. Harrow before and after 
sowing. 

For Central and Northern Ontario the time to 
sow fall wheat is the end of August or beginning of 
vSeptember. In Southern Ontario the seed should 
be sown from the tenth to the fifteenth of Sep- 
tember. 

Sow fall wheat with the grain drill at the rate 
of one and a quarter bushels per acre, using only 
good, clean and thoroughly matured seed. 

The seed should, before sowing, be treated with 
formalin if it shows any traces of smut. A simple 
and effective method is to make a solution in the 
proportions of half a pint of formalin to ten gallons 
of water. This is sufficient for twenty-five or thirty 
bushels of wheat. Having prepared the solution, 
spread the wheat on the floor and sprinkle the 
formalin solution over it with a watering can; the 
wheat should be shovelled over while being sprinkled, 
so that every grain will receive a portion of the solu- 
tion. After sprinkling, dust the wheat over with 
slaked lime so that it mav be sown with the grain 
drill. 

Do not put the grain into bags many hours before 
sowing, as this will cause it to heat and seriously 
injure its vitality. Every germ of smut must be 
destroyed, otherwise it will develop and produce 
smut the following year. 

It has been proved by botanists that the smut 
spores cling to the kernel and when it germinates 
the spores feed on the plant, finishing with the grain, 



GRAIN GROWING. 



Ill 



so that the kernels become smut instead of grain. 
These same principles hold good with oats and 
barley. 

While it is important to have the soil and other 
conditions as favorable as possible, the best results 
cannot be obtained unless a variety of grain is sown 
that will give the largest yield and the best quality. 
The sowing of a productive variety will make all 
the difference between profit and loss. 

Every farmer who has had experience in the 
growing of wheat will remember varieties which 
excelled all others for some years but had to give 
place to something new (often being self-hybridized). 
There is no doubt that grain would not depreciate 
so rapidly if only the best grains were sown each 
year. Indeed, in many cases the same variety has 
been used on the same farm year after year with 
ever improving returns. 

It is well to note that in order to obtain the best 
results the land must be in good condition and the 
grain sown must be carefully selected, both for 
productiveness and milling qualities. 

Wheat should be cut when the grain is in the 
lirm dough state, as according to analysis this pro- 
duces the finest quality of flour. With the improved 
harvesting machinery of the present time there is no 
excuse for allowing the grain to become over-ripe 
before it is cut. 

The only harvesting machine in the early part 
of the last century was the sickle; after this came 
the scythe with the bow, followed later by the grain 
cradle, after which a crude style of reaping machine 
was brought into use. Several inventions followed, 
but with all of them a man had to put the grain off 
the platform with a fork or rake. The next im- 
provement was the "self-raker." 



Sow the Most 
Productive 
Varieties of 
Grain. 



Hybridized 
Varieties. 



Results from 
Good Cultiva- 
tion and Seed. 



When to Cut 
Wheat. 



Improvements 
in Harvesting 
Methods. 



GRAIN GROWING. 



113 



Following it was the "Marsh Harvester," on 
which two men rode and bound the grain as it was 
elevated. To-day we have the wide-cut self-binder 
complete (III. j8), a machine that will bind and cut 
the heaviest crop of grain and do the work in the 
most perfect manner. 

In setting up grain to dry, the long "shock" 
or "stook" is preferable (III. 5p). The sheaves 
are set up firmly in pairs, ten or twelve in a shock. 
The shock should stand with ends facing north and 
south, so that both sides will be exposed evenly to 
the sun. Wheat should stand a week in the field 
after being cut, so that it may dry out thoroughly 
and the grain become hard. 

As previously shown, great progress has been 
made towards perfecting harvesting machinery. An 
equal advance has been made in threshing machines. 
In the early days of this country all the grain was 
threshed with the flail or trodden out by oxen or 
horses on a floor. 

In the writer's younger days he has threshed 
all winter with the flail, from the time the land 
froze up in the fall until seed time in the spring. 
The first implement in the shape of a threshing 
machine was simply a cylinder set in a frame with 
beaters instead of spikes, and the grain had to be 
separated from the chaff with a simple hand fanner. 

Later there was a succession of improvements, 
until now we have the self-feeding thresher and 
separator that will thresh and clean the grain ready 
for market, and do the work as fast as two men can 
fork the sheaves into it. See III. 60. 



Marsh- 
Harvester 
Principle of 
Elevating Used 
To-day. 



How to 
"Shock' 
Grain. 



Improvements 
to Threshing 
Machines. 



Writer's Early 
Experience in 
Threshing. 



The Modern 
Thresher. 



CHAPTER XII. 

Field Root Crops. 

vSod land that has been plowed shallow in the Spring Cultiva- 
tion for Hoe 
early autumn and thoroughly prepared according Crops. 

to previous directions, also manured and ribbed, is 
in the most desirable condition for root crops, 
especially mangels, sugar beets and carrots, that 
require to be sown as early in the spring as the soil 
is sufficiently dry and in fine tilth. The first opera- 
tion in spring is the levelling of the ribs by harrowing 
and cultivating. If the soil is of a sandy and porous 
nature, five or six inches will be sufficiently deep to 
cultivate, but clay soil should be loosened ten inches 
deep with the subsoiler (77/. i), cultivating both 
ways (crossing) to loosen the subsoil, so that all 
rain water will percolate into the subsoil and allow 
the air free access into the soil to warm it and assist 
the bacteria to act on the vegetable matter and 
make it available for plant food. Another object 
in loosening clay soil is to allow the rootlets of deep- 
rooted plants free access to feed on the mineral 
matter contained in the subsoil. When roots are 
fed on the farm the quality of the farmyard manure 
is improved very materially for growing succeeding 
crops. 

After subsoiling, harrow and cultivate until there shallow Drills, 
is a fine tilth; then roll if dry. While good results Ribbers on the 
are produced from sowing on the level, still the iubsJuer 11 
writer prefers shallow drills, which are made with 
a double mould-board drill plow with marker (see 
Til. ij), so that the drills are of equal width. This 
is an advantage for horse hoeing. Drills for all 
root crops, including potatoes, can be made with 



Frame. 



FIELD ROOT CROPS. 



117 



three ribbers attached to the frame of the stiff-tooth 
subsoiler. This effects a great saving in labor. 
One difficulty in using the ribbing attachment for 
making drills for hoe crops is in keeping them 
straight and even, which is important to the proper 
regulation of the horse hoe (scuffler). Sec III. 63. 
This may be overcome by uncoupling the pole at 
the castor wheel, and instead of the horses guiding 
the drillers they are kept in place by the use of a 
lever. Sec III. 61. This is a very useful implement. 
It is first a subsoiler, second a stiff-tooth cultivator, 
third a spring-tooth cultivator, fourth a ribber, 
fifth a driller for making drills for mangels, turnips, 
etc., also for opening drills for potatoes and covering 
same three drills at a time. 

In making drills, have the mould-boards set 
wide, so that the furrows will meet at the top, with- 
out going deep, as the composition of the drills 
should mainly be rotted sod and farm manure, which 
makes a complete composition for growing roots 
and corn. The drills for mangel-wurzels and other 
field roots should be twenty-eight or thirty inches 
wide. The quantity of mangel-wurzels and sugar- 
beet seed advisable to sow is four pounds per acre. 
Less seed will do, but in order that there should be 
no blank spaces it is better to sow plenty of seed. 
With carrots, three pounds per acre is quite sufficient. 

As soon as the drills become dry after sowing, 
roll them with a heavy land roller. This will assist 
capillary action, so that the moisture from below 
will rise to the surface. Then, to prevent evapora- 
tion, the surface must be loosened. A very satisfac- 
tory implement for this work is the Breed 
weeder, which will cover four drills. It is advis- 
able to raise the two teeth (about two inches) which 
come in the centre of each drill, so that the seed 



Making Drills, 
and Sowing 
Field Roots. 



Cultivation 
After Sowing to 
Cause Soluble 
Plant Food. 



118 



Ul'.N \ II'. S AGRICUL/l'U 



will not be disturbed. This is done- by i)iitting a 
thin piece of wood— say two laths under these 
teeth and over the others about the centre of the 
teeth. There are several advantages to be gained 
by keeping the surface loosened even before the 
plants appear above the ground. The air is thus 
let into the soil and moisture is conserved. Bacteria 




61. CULTIVATOR FRAME WITH R1RRKRS. 



Thinning, and 
Varieties of 
Field Roots. 



is also thereby allowed to act on the humus, and 
make it available for plant food, so that as soon as 
the plants commence to grow they are provided with 
a full supply of soluble food. 

Commence thinning mangel-wurzels when the 
plants are from one inch to one and a half inches 
high, leaving the plants about twelve inches apart 
in the row. It is scarcely ever necessary to stoop 
and use the fingers. The work can be done with the 



I'l h'.I.D root CROPS: 1 1 ( ) 

hoc that is made for the purpose See III. 62. This 
hoe should be kept quite sharp and square at the 
corners. The operator walks at the side of the 
drill and draws the soil on the near side and pushes 
the soil at the far side, and with the corner of hoe 
cuts out unnecessary plants, leaving only one plant 
in a place. A man who understands how to do this 
work properly will hoe and leave in good shape half 
an acre per day. Carrots take more time, as they 
require to be left closer, not more than eight to ten 
inches apart. The Breed weeder is the only imple- 
ment required until the plants are from two to three 




Tl'RXll' hoe 



inches high; then the "horse hoe" {see III. 63) should 
be used frequently during the growing season. On 
no account should a crust be allowed to form on the 
surface. For breaking up the crust the combined 
harrow, cultivator and pulverizer is a satisfactory 
implement. See III. 14. All root crops should be 
cultivated on the level. Even potatoes should not 
be hilled up when growing, as this throws the rain 
water from the plants. 

The mammoth long red variety of mangel- Varieties of 

, . , , /tm Mangels, 

wurzel, as a rule, is the heaviest cropper, lhe sugar-Beets 
giant vellow intermediate is a close rival. These an arro s ' 
will average, under favorable conditions, thirty tons 
per acre. It is generally supposed that the yellow 
mangels are the most nutritious, but, according to 
analysis, there is very little difference. The sugar 
mangel is the richest of all. One objection to the 



FIKLD ROOT CROPS. 121 

long red is thai when harvesting and putting in 
the cellar many of them are broken, which injures 
their keeping qualities. The- broken or bruised 
roots should be fed first. The best variety of 
sugar-beet for farm purposes is the giant variety. 
It is a heavy cropper, one which will average under 
favorable conditions between twenty-five and thirty 
tons per acre. It stands well out of the ground, so 
that it is easily harvested. Sugar-beets are more 
nutritious than any other field root, and will keep 
longer. 




64. STORING ROOTS IN PTT. 

In Central and Northern Ontario the time to when and How 

1 1 11 1 • r t0 Harvest 

harvest mangel-wurzels and sugar-beets is from Field Roots, 
the fifteenth to the twenty-fifth of October. When 
pulling, it is preferable to twist the tops off by hand, 
as when topped with a knife they are more liable 
to decay. For convenience in loading into the 
waggon, throw four drills into a row, providing 
there is no danger of frost; allow them to remain 
on the ground for twenty-four hours after being 
pulled and topped, as this will improve their keeping 
quality. If there is any indication of frost they 
should be either housed or covered every night, as 
three or four degrees of frost will injure mangel- 
wurzels and sugar-beets after they are pulled. 



122 



KKW1K S AGRICULTURE. 



Storing and 
Ventilating 
Field Roots. 



Pitting, Cover- 
ing and Venti- 
lating Roots. 



When putting roots into a cellar it is advisable 
to run them over a slatted chute, so as to riddle out 
the earth. No tops should remain on the roots, as 
the)- will soon decay and injure the roots. Where 
the roots drop into the cellar they are liable to heat 
unless an opening is made (funnel-shaped) nearlv 
to the bottom. There are two important matters 
in connection with the successful storing of roots. 
The first is to keep them sufficiently cool; the 
second to prevent them from freezing. To accom- 
plish this, stone or cement basements underneath 
barns should be sheeted on the inside of wall, and 
also sheeted overhead or under the upper floor. 
The principle of ventilation in a root cellar is the 
same as that required to cause a draught in a stove. 
The openings above are useless without small 
openings below, similar to a damper in the front of 
a stove. For this purpose a number of small drain 
tiles should be put in the bottom of wall next to 
cattle stable, and near to the top of the wall have 
large openings, which should remain open all winter. 
The outside windows should be kept open every day 
until the winter sets in — say the beginning of 
December. About the 2.5th of December it will be 
necessary to bank up the windows with stable 
manure to keep out the frost. 

When there is not sufficient cellar room Un- 
balance of the roots may be pitted successfully. 
Mark out pit of the required length, about six feet 
wide, and excavate three or four inches. The earth 
should be laid along the sides. Dumping carts are 
move convenient than waggons for unloading roots 
into pits. Build the roots up to a point four or five 
feet high (see III. 64), then cover with straw about 
three inches, and with earth six inches. This cover- 
ing is sufficient until the end of November, then re- 



I'rKi.n root crops. 123 

cover with an addition of three inches of straw and 

twelve inches of earth. In order to get sufficient 

mould it is advisable to plow around the pits a 

number of furrows not exceeding nine inches in 

depth, as the surface soil which is composed of 

vegetable matter is more impervious to frost than 

clay. To make provision against excessive frost it 

is advisable to cover pits, the last of December, with 

stable manure to the depth of about ten inches. To 

ventilate a pit set three-inch drain tiles on top, with 

one end resting on the roots. Place about eight 

feet apart near the bottom of the pit, two-inch tiles, 

so as to cause a draught. Fill the tiles with straw 

in December. 

For field culture the white intermediate carrot Varieties, cul- 
tivation and 
is unquestionably the most profitable variety for the Harvesting of 

farmer to grow for feeding purposes. The nutritive 

value is equal to any of the white varieties, and it is 

much more easily harvested than the others. Under 

favorable conditions this carrot will yield from 

twenty-five to thirty tons per acre. The cultivation 

of carrots is similar to that for mangel-wurzels and 

sugar-beets, with the exception of thinning. The 

carrot plants should be from eight to ten inches 

apart in the row. The time to harvest is the last 

week in October. In harvesting, the tops can be 

readily taken off with an ordinary hoe, while the 

roots are still in the ground. Then, with an iron 

plow without the mould-board, or a subsoil plow 

(see III. g), the roots can be turned out. The plow 

should be run only sufficiently deep that the share 

will cut the points off the roots. This work may 

be done first and topping done afterwards with a 

knife. A very little frost will injure them after 

being pulled, so that it will be necessary to cover 

them at night if there is any danger of frost. Car- 



124 



RF.XXir: S AGRICUI.TT'RK. 



Swede Turnips, 

Improved 

Varieties. 



Preparation of 
the Soil for 
Swede Turnips. 



rots are grown chiefly for feeding to horses and 
milch cows, but for cows the Jumbo sugar-beet is 
taking the place of the white carrot, on account of 
the saving in labor in hand-hoeing and thinning. 
Horses are also as fond of sugar-beets as carrots, 
and the sugar-beets are quite as nutritious. The 
same method of keeping mangel-wurzels and sugar- 
beets during the winter is required for the keeping 
of carrots. 

There are many varieties of swede turnips grown 
at the present time. These have been improved 
from the original "Skirving, " work which is carried 
on extensively by growers of swedes. The type of a 
root is fixed by growing seed from a certain type for 
a number of years. While some of the newer 
varieties are large and smooth, their quality for 
table use may not be equal to that of some others. 
As a rule, the bronze top varieties are superior to the 
purple top for table use. In some sections of the 
country the practice of growing swede turnips for 
export to the United States for table use has become 
quite an extensive business. The wisdom of doing 
this is another matter, for, aside from the ready 
cash derived, we must consider the fact that it takes 
about double the nutriment from the soil to produce 
a crop of turnips than it does for a grain crop. 
Again, the farmer should consider the great loss of 
fertility to the soil by selling and shipping the whole 
product instead of feeding it on the farm and re- 
turning it again to the soil, as only a small per- 
centage is retained by the animals for the production 
of beef or milk. 

In preparing soil the previous fall for swede 
turnips, while it is preferable to have the land 
manured and ribbed, it is not so important, as 
turnips do not require to be sown as early as mangel- 



FIELD ROUT CROPS. 

wurzels, sugar-beets and carrots. It is advisable to 
have swedes follow a clover sod which has been 
thoroughly decomposed and which has been manured 
in the fall or during the winter with about fifteen 
waggon loads of farm manure per acre, thoroughly 
incorporated with the surface soil. Before making 
the drills, if the subsoil is clay it should be loosened 
about ten inches deep with a subsoiler (III. /). 



125 




65. HORSE DRILL l'OR SOWING I'IKT.D ROOT SEEDS. 



In order to do the work thoroughly it is advisable 
to first set the subsoiler eight inches deep, then across 
about two inches deeper. This method is most 
thorough. The next proceeding is to harrow and 
roll the land before making the drills, which are 
made the same as for mangel-wurzels, shallow, and 
twenty-eight or thirty inches wide. The time to 
sow swedes is from fifteenth to the twenty-fifth of 
June. If sown earlier they are liable to be more 
woody and are subject to the turnip louse {aphis). 
The quantity of seed necessary is from two to 



126 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Quantity of 
Seed per Acre, 
and Conserving 
Moisture. 



Fall Turnips, 
for Early 
Feeding. 



When and How 
to Harvest 
Swedes and 
Store for 
Winter. 



three pounds per acre, and is best sown with the 
ordinary horse seed drill. See III. 6j. In twenty- 
four hours, if the drills are dry, roll them down with 
a heavy roller, so as to hasten capillary action, and, 
as with mangel-wurzels, pulverize the surface to 
conserve moisture. If the surface is kept pulverized 
with a Breed weeder there will be no difficulty in 
getting a catch, even if there is no rain. Thin the 
same as mangels, with a turnip hoe. This work 
should be done early, while the plants are in the 
second rough leaf. To secure best results, level and 
thorough cultivation should be continued during 
the growing season. 

There are many varieties of fall turnips, and 
while their nutritive value is not equal to the swede, 
yet they have certain qualifications that recommend 
them. Some, being more rapid growers, can be 
sown later, as a catch crop, after a crop of early 
potatoes or on clover sod. The last of June or the 
early part of July is not too late for some of these. 
They should be sown in shallow drills, and cultivated 
and harvested in the same manner as swedes for 
early feeding. Some farmers prefer to sow them on 
the level, using an ordinary grain drill, each alternate 
spout being stopped. They then feed them off on 
the land in the fall. Sheep and young cattle thrive 
well on this excellent food, and it will be found par- 
ticularly advantageous when pastures are dry and 
scanty. This soiling crop gives stock a good start 
for the winter. Among the ordinary fall turnips 
the most suitable varieties are the yellow Aberdeen, 
grey stone, and the ordinary white. 

In Northern Ontario the time to harvest swedes 
is the last days of October; the first week in 
November answers in Central Ontario. There are 
various methods of doing this work when help is 



'I Kl.l ) ROOT CROPS. 



127 




128 rennie's agriculture. 

plentiful. The old method of pulling and topping 
by hand, throwing the roots of four drills into one 
row for convenience in loading into the waggon, is 
preferable. In many cases, however, other methods 
have been adapted in order to save hand labor. One 
of these is to top the turnips with an ordinary hoe 
and drag them out of the ground with the harrows 
by harrowing across the drills, letting the harrows 
half lap if necessary. This method answers well in 
sandy soil, but in clay soil the turnips are consider- 
ably injured in the process, and, as a rule, there is 
more earth clinging to the roots than is desirable. 
Another method is to top with the hoe and cut off 
the roots with an iron plow without the mould- 
board, and having the wing of share wide and sharp 
to cut off the tap roots. Still another method, and 
one generally followed in many sections of the 
country, is to use a heavy hoe or mattock, both to 
top and to root. Turnips should be left on the 
ground for a day or two after being pulled, as they 
are not so easily injured by frost as other roots. 
Indeed, it has been found that three or four degrees 
of frost rather improves their keeping qualities. 
The same directions for storing mangel-wurzels, 
both in cellar and pits, hold in the storing of turnips 
for the winter. 



CHAPTER XIII. 
Exhibition Roots. 
It may be interesting to many, especially young How to Grow 
people, to know how to grow monstrous roots for Exhibition, 
exhibition purposes. It is like feeding and preparing, 
animals to win prizes — more for glory than for profit. 
However, it is interesting to demonstrate that one 
small mangel-wurzel seed planted, say, on the 10th 
of April, will, by the 10th of October, with proper 
care, develop into a root weighing over sixty pounds. 
The first thing to be done in the preparation of soil 
is to underdrain it; then early in the autumn prepare 
a clover sod as before described for mangel-wurzels 
and sugar-beets. In October, subsoil the rotted soil 
ten or twelve inches deep; then give a heavy coat 
of well-rotted farm manure. Incorporate this thor- 
oughly with the surface soil (which is simply rotted 
sod) by cultivating and harrowing several times. 
Make shallow drills five feet apart, by plowing two 
or three rounds to each drill. Shape the drills with 
a garden rake. After this cover all the surface with 
thoroughly rotted manure. The seed should be 
sown early in April, on the drills, at intervals of 
three feet. Sow five or six seeds together. After 
the plants have grown one or two inches, thin out to 
three plants, and eventually to the one most vigor- 
ous. Follow the above plan for mangel-wurzel and 
sugar-beets. Carrots and parsnips may be sown 
two feet apart. In order to get turnips full grown 
for exhibition they should be sown early in May, and 
afterwards thinned as indicated for mangels. Sow 
salt and land plaster (gypsum) over the whole 
surface. Loosen the surface soil frequently during 
the whole season, and on no account allow a crust to 
form on the surface. In growing mammoth roots 
and vegetables for exhibition, much valuable know- 
ledge may be gained by the grower. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
Potato Growing. 

The most suitable soil for potatoes is a thoroughly Cultivation and 
rotted clover sod. This is prepared by plowing Potatoes, 
shallow in the autumn, then rolling, harrowing and 
cultivating alternately until October. Then cover 
with well-rotted farmyard manure, and rib as in the 
preparation for mangel-wurzels. In the spring the 
cultivation must be thorough. If the soil is a clay 
it should be subsoiled as deep as possible to let in the 
air, warm the soil, and assist in the decomposition 
of vegetable matter. The drills are opened out with 
a drill plow, with marker thirty inches wide (see 
Til. ij), or with ribbers attached to the frame of 
the stiff- tooth subsoiler (III. 48). The drills should 
be made about four inches deep. Plant medium- 
sized potatoes, cut in sets, with from two to three 
eyes in each. Drop the sets in the drills twelve 
inches apart; then cover with the drill plow or 
ribbers, and after ten days harrow down nearly level, 
and smooth with a Breed weeder (///. 66). The 
weeder should be used freely at this stage, and even 
after the potatoes have made considerable growth. 
Use the horse hoe frequently during the growing 
season. The cultivation should be on the level, and 
on no account must the potatoes be banked up, but 
the last time this work is done the teeth of the 
scuffler may be changed so as to throw the earth 
towards the potatoes, and thus prevent their being 
sunburnt. 

While there are machines for cutting potatoes How to cut 
for seed, and some of them do the work fairly well, and Time to 
the ordinary farmer is content to cut the sets by lant ' 
hand. To do this work properly, cut off the stem 



132 



KKXXIES AGRICULTURE. 



Digging, 
Pitting and 
Storing 
Potatoes. 



end of the potato first. This will invariably have 
one or two eyes. Then revolve the potato in one 
hand and cut with the other, so as to leave one or 
two eyes in each set. Split the seed end; by ex- 
periment this has been found to give the best all- 
round results. The time to plant early potatoes 
depends largely upon circumstances. If wanted for 
the early market it is necessary to have the land 
thoroughly prepared the previous fall. Plant soon 
after the middle of April in Central Ontario. The 
soil being cold so early in the season, in addition to 
deep subsoiling lime may be used to advantage in 
warming it so as to make the plant food available. 
In all cases it is advisable to plant early varieties 
early in the spring, so that they will be matured 
before the hot, dry weather, and in good time for the 
early market. It is better not to plant late varieties 
until the end of May, in order that they will keep 
on growing during the hot weather and be ready 
to harvest by the tenth of October. To recom- 
mend, from the long list of varieties grown at the 
present time, the best to plant, is a difficult and un- 
satisfactory task, as those varieties which are so 
popular at the present time may, in a few years, be 
far behind some other varieties now unknown. The 
Early Rose may be considered an exception, for this 
variety, which held first place for many years, is 
to-day still a close rival for first place as an early 
potato. The Early Six Weeks and Early Ohio are 
among the first of extra early varieties. Among 
the late varieties the Delaware stands among the 
first. 

There are many kinds of implements used in 
digging potatoes, ranging from the spading fork to 
the combined digger and picker. See III. 12. The 
common plow, however, is generally used. The 



POTATO GROWING. 



133 



potato-digging attachment for the drill plow (see 
III. ij) works fairly satisfactory. Potatoes will 
keep much better during the winter if, after digging, 
they are pitted in the field for ten days, that they 
may sweat; cover the pit with straw and a light 
covering of earth. The straw prevents the earth 
from mixing with the potatoes. Store for the 
winter, and ventilate according to the directions 
given for the mangel-wurzels. Potatoes pitted 
during the winter are usually firmer and of better 
quality in the spring than those stored in cellars. 




tfARTJKST SIX WBfiKS POTATOES. 



CHAPTER XV. 
Rape for Fodder. 
Cultivation and Dwarf Essex Rape is a succulent fodder plant 

Feeding or r l 

Rape. that should be grown more extensively in this 

country than it is, as it grows luxuriantly and is of 
great value for fodder. An ordinary crop will yield 
over twenty tons per acre of a most nutritious food. 
By sowing, say, half an acre or more early in May, it 
will be ready in July for the lambs at weaning time, 
and also for young growing pigs, and can either be 
fed on the land or hauled to the stables. The 
general crop should be sown from the 20th of June 
to the 1st of July. The same preparation of the soil 
is required as that necessary for a root crop. Rape 
grows to the greatest perfection when sown in drills 
the same as turnips. The drills should be twenty- 
five inches apart. Two pounds of seed per acre will 
be found sufficient. The cultivation is similar to 
that of turnips, excepting that hand-hoeing is not 
necessary. Rape can be grown successfully as a 
catch crop after early potatoes or grain are harvested. 
All animals do well when fed a daily ration of rape 
during the fall, but it is objected to for milch cows 
because of the taint given the milk. In order to 
keep rape for early winter feeding it should be cut 
about the 20th of November with an ordinary 
scythe and forked into small heaps, and hauled to 
the stable as required. When frozen, leave in the 
stable to thaw out before feeding. 



CHAPTER XVI. 
Corn for Silage. 
In the preparation of land for corn we must take Preparing the 

. , . . . . Land for Corn. 

into consideration that this plant is, to a certain 
extent, semi-tropical, and is better adapted to a 
warmer climate than ours. However, by preparing 
the soil with a view to keeping it warm during the 
growing season, we may expect good results. In 
the first place, the land (well-rotted clover sod) must 
be either naturally or artificially drained, and 
thoroughly cultivated and manured the preceding 
fall, and ribbed the same as for roots. If the land 
was manured in the winter it will be necessary first 
in the spring to gang plow it shallow, say three or 
four inches deep, so as to incorporate the manure 
with the surface soil. Then harrow and cultivate 
thoroughly before sowing it; if a clay subsoil, loosen 
not less than ten inches deep. Then harrow and 
cultivate until the land is in fine tilth. 

In Central and Northern Ontario, as a rule, the Time and 
best results are obtained by sowing silage corn the corn to Grow 
last week in May. There are many varieties to 
choose from. When making a selection, every farmer 
will have to be governed according to soil and 
locality. In Southern Ontario a later and larger 
variety can be grown than is possible further north. 
It is useless to grow a variety for silage which will 
not be in a firm, dough state by the 15th or 20th 
of September. The flint varieties are invariably 
earlier than the dent varieties. For Northern Ontario 
I would name North Dakota and Compton's Early, 
both of which are flint varieties. The former is 
white and the latter yellow. From the roots of these 



for Silage. 



136 



KKXXIF. S AGRICULTURE. 



fand most other flint varieties) grow up a number of 
shoots. For Central Ontario larger and heavier 
yielding varieties ma}' be grown, viz.: Wisconsin 
Xo. 7 White Dent, Learning, and White Cap 
Yellow Dent. These, being dent varieties, do not 
throw up any shoots. Under favorable circum- 
stances they will yield from 15 to 20 tons per acre. 
One-fifth of the weight will be ears, while the bulk 
yield of the flint varieties named is rather less in 
the total than the dent varieties. The proportion 
of ears is about the same. For cutting and feeding 
green the sweet varieties are considered preferable. 




67. HAND CORN" PLANTER. 



Sowing and 
Cultivating 
Corn. 



Mammoth Sweet is one of the heaviest yielders and 
is of fair quality. 

There are several methods of sowing or planting 
corn, each of which has advantages under certain 
conditions. If the land has not been thoroughly 
cleaned of weeds and weed seeds the previous fall 
it is advisable to plant in hills, so that the land can 
be cultivated both ways. This can be done by the 
use of a corn marker, marking both ways. Drop 
four or live kernels in each cross, either by hand 
or with a hand planter. See III. 6j. The American 
check row planter is expensive, but does the work 
most satisfactorily. When planting in hills forty 



138 



RJvNNIES AGRICULTURE. 



inches apart, about fifteen pounds of seed per acre 
is sufficient. When the land is fairly free from weeds 
and weed seeds, corn can be sown with an ordinary 
grain seed-drill (see III. 56), stopping all the spouts 
but two, leaving six spaces (forty-two inches) 
between the rows of corn. A drill with an odd 
number of spouts, say eleven or thirteen, is pre- 
ferable, as the teamster will not be so liable to make 




69. CORN CULTIVATOR. 

a mistake. A careful driver should make the drills 
perfectly straight and even and sow twelve acres 
per day. Twenty pounds of seed corn per acre 
is sufficient. As soon as sown the land should be 
crossed with a light harrow or a Breed weeder, then 
on the angle and again across, until the corn is up. 
After this use the weeder lengthwise, covering two 
drills at a time, raising the two teeth in line with 



CORN FOR SILAGE. 

each row of corn (as before described). When the 
corn is a few inches high, start the two-horse corn 
cultivator. Sec III. 6g. Use the narrow point first, 
so as to loosen the soil several inches deep. This is 



139 




70. CORN HOE. 

followed with the Breed weeder to make a fine 
tilth, kill weeds, and assist the bacteria to act on the 
humus and make it available for plant food. Corn, 
being a gross feeder, requires a large amount of 
soluble food, which can only be prepared by thorough 




71. CORN PLATFORM. 



cultivation. The weeder and the two-horse corn 
cultivator should be used alternately until the corn 
is too high to work over. Then it becomes necessary 
to use a one-horse hoe or scuffler {see III. 6j), which 
should be continued until the corn is about six feet 
high. After this a cultivator with harrow teeth is 



140 



REX X IE S AGRICULTURE. 



When and How- 
to Harvest 
Corn. 



all that isrequired to pulverize the- surface. See III. /_/. 
All cultivation may cease after the corn is in tassel. 
The time to harvest corn for silage is when it is 
in the firm, dough state. Until recent years most of 
the corn was cut either with the reaping hook or 
corn hoe. See III. 70. < 11 account of the scar- 




11. CORN" CUTTING AND SII.O. 



city of labor these methods have been almost dis- 
carded. At the present time the most common 
implement is the corn harvester. See III. 73. With 
this implement a man and team can cut and bind 
in bundles six acres per day. Whether or not the 
corn should be taken to the silo immediately after 
being cut depends on its condition. If rather green 
and full of juice it is better to lie on the ground after 



142 Ronnie's agriculture. 

being cut for half a day or more to wilt; otherwise 
the silage will be sour. Corn to be put in the bottom 
of a silo should be nearly matured. If the corn gets 
frozen, the sooner it is put into the silo the better. 
If it becomes over-dry, water may be added after 
the silo is about half filled. A low platform, 
attached to an ordinary waggon, is what is required 
for hauling corn to the cutter at silo. See III. yi. 
There are several types of silage cutters, any of 
which will be found satisfactory. The self-feeding 
table is an advantage, and the blower is an improve- 
ment over the carriers, although it requires more 
power. To elevate from eight to ten tons per hour, 
thirty feet high, requires an engine of not less than 
twelve horse power. See III. 72. The most suitable 
length to cut corn for silage is a debated question, 
but it is generally conceded that a half-inch cut is 
about right. 
Com and other j n addition to corn, which is preferable to all 

Silage Crops. " 

other fodder crops for silage, are the clovers, which 
make a good quality of silage. Clover is specially 
adapted to feed with corn and other carbonaceous 
foods. Alfalfa gives the largest yield of any of the 
clovers, and being a perennial, it can be cut in 
succession for a number of years. Alfalfa and 
orchard grass, or brome grass, make a better 
balanced ration than any individual plant (including 
corn), and being perennial, they will stand for years, 
and give an abundance of succulent food without 
any expense for cultivation, except a top dressing 
every winter with good farm manure. The time 
to cut and put in the silo is when the clover is in 
bloom. The first cutting of alfalfa and orchard 
grass or brome grass is usually heavy and difficult 
to cure for hay, but it can be put into the silo as 
soon as cut (and partially dry) to prevent clogging 



CORN FOB SILAGE. 



143 




HWBBlPiSsS^*Sfe^3 



74. ROUND STAVE SILO. 



144 rexxie's agriculture. 

in the blower pipe. The second and third cuttings 
can be cured for hay or pastured, but not too close. 

The silo is no longer an experiment. In those 
sections of the country where corn cannot be grown 
successfully, ever}' farmer should build a silo and 
till it with some green crop adapted for his section, 
say peas and oats mixed and cut green. This will 
make an excellent quality of silage for winter 
feeding. 

In filling a silo with corn or any other fodder 
crop, care should be taken to keep the surface level 
and well tramped, particularly around the sides, 
as this will assist in excluding the air. After fer- 
mentation commences the silage will settle rapidly. 
As soon as the silo is filled — or say, all that is to be 
put in at that time — scatter salt over the top, then 
cover with five or six inches of chaff or cut straw, 
and sow over it barley or oats. Water every day 
for a few days, and tramp thoroughly over the 
surface, especially on the sides. The grain will soon 
grow and make a close air-tight covering which will 
prevent the silage from spoiling. A cloth saturated 
with any cheap oil, or paint, makes a good covering, 
but the cloth will not last more than two or three 
years. 

It requires live or six weeks for silage to cure and 

be ready for feeding. In the meantime it is well to 

have sufficient corn shocked, either in the barn or 

outside, to cut daily as required for feeding. 

construction of There are several stvles of silos in use. To 

Silos. 

decide which is preferable will depend to a certain 
extent upon circumstances. The round, wood stave 
silo (see III. 74) has certain advantages. It is simple 
in construction, and is the cheapest. The cost will 
be about seventy-five cents per ton — that is, a silo 
of one hundred tons capacity, will cost about 



CORN FOR SILAGE. 145 

seventy-five dollars. Most farmers will have no 
difficulty in constructing a round stave silo. The 
staves are cut generally two by six inches, the length 
varying according to the height of the silo. For a 
thirty-foot silo, use staves sixteen and fourteen feet 
long, joined alternately, so that the joints will not 
be opposite each other. The joints are made by 
sawing a groove in the ends and fitting in a piece 
of hoop iron. It is advisable to have a cement 
floor in the silo. The hoops may be made of heavy 
band iron (or three-quarter inch round), each hoop 
in two sections, arranged so that they can be tight- 
ened or loosened as required. In making connec- 
tions, use a block of wood or casting. See III. 74. 
Openings eighteen by twenty-four inches each, 
three feet apart, can be cut after the silo is built, to 
throw out the silage. Cut in a slant, so that they 
will fit closely. The first door should be near the 
bottom. A number of half -inch holes may be bored 
to allow the surplus moisture to escape. The stave 
silo has the advantage of being portable, so that a 
farmer on a rented farm can take it with him at the 
expiration of his lease. 

The stave silo, where permanently located, can 
be improved very materially by bricking it up inside 
four inches thick, the same as wells are bricked, and 
plastering inside with cement. This makes the silo 
air-tight and frost-proof, which are two very im- 
portant factors necessary to secure and maintain a 
good quality of silage. 

For a silo that is durable and satisfactory in 
every respect, the cement silo can be recommended. 
See III. 72. As a rule these are built round. Iron 
rods can be built in the walls to bind the structure 
together, so that an opening can be 'left from top to 
bottom, instead of using doors through which to 



146 rennie's agriculture. 

get the silage. These openings, eighteen inches 
wide, are closed when the silo is being filled be- 
setting in inch boards, ten or twelve inches wide, 
with an overlap to break the joints. Set them 
against cleats nailed to the frame of opening, two 
inches back from the inside face of the wall, so that, 
when set in place, the boards are even with the wall. 
These boards are set in as the silo is filled, and taken 
out and tacked about four feet above as the silage 
is taken out from the top. This is a very convenient 
way of getting the silage out. There is an advantage 
ina long silo, so that a partition can be built across 
in order to make two compartments, one of which is 
about double the size of the other. The silage of 
the large compartment can be for winter feeding, 
and the smaller for summer use. It does not require 
a mechanic to build a cement silo. It is scarcely 
necessary to give details in this work, as the manu- 
facturers of cement supply full instructions to their 
customers how to construct silos and other farm 
buildings. The cost of building a cement silo is 
from one dollar and a quarter to one and a half per 
ton capacity. 

When building a cement silo the walls may be 
filled with field stones, which will lessen the cost 
very materially, but the stones must be kept two 
inches from the sides of the silo, otherwise the silage 
next the stone is liable to be injured and the wall is 
weakened. 

In estimating the capacity of a silo, allow forty 
pounds per cubic foot for a silo twenty-five feet 
deep, and forty-live pounds for a silo thirty feet 
deep. 

In taking out silage, commence at the top and 
keep the surface level. A heavy rake is the most 
suitable tool for the purpose. 



CORN FOR SILAGE. 



147 



The amount of silage to winter full-grown 
animals is about four tons each, in addition to other 
fodder. 

Some are under the impression that corn shocked 
in the field and cut or shredded as required is equal 
in feeding value to silage, and according to analysis 
there is little difference, except that there is less 
water in the dry corn; but in practical experiments 
in feeding there is a very great difference in favor 
of silage. 




, ii.i.nw DENT co'rx. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
Fall Cultivation. 

Fail Cultivation Having given the cultivation, harvesting and 

Hoe r crops. storing of the hoe crops grown on No. 3 section in 
the rotation for mixed farming, it will now be in 
order to give the fall cultivation of the land after 
corn and roots, which is to be followed by spring 
grain. 

If the corn land is free from weeds, all that is 
required is to rib the land with the drill plow or the 
ribbing attachment on the frame of a cultivator, as 
shown in previous illustrations, making the ribs 
twenty or twenty-one inches wide, so that there will 
be a row of corn roots in each alternate rib. 

If the land is not perfectly free from weeds, the 
land may be cultivated across with a stiff-tooth 
cultivator to turn out the corn roots, so that the 
land may be harrowed and cultivated with the wide 
points, then ribbed, so as to put all the corn roots 
and surface soil in the centre of the narrow ribs. 

By so doing the soluble fertility is prevented 
from leaching away during the winter, as the rains 
and melting snows will run off in the furrows without 
carrying away any of the humus. 

Another advantage is that this allows the frost 
into the subsoil to loosen it. Land ribbed in the fall 
will dry out much earlier in the spring, and will 
make a much better seed-bed. 

Root land cannot always be cultivated in fall, 
on account of the tops. Especially is this true of 
turnip land. If there should be an occasional thistle 
or any other weed, it may be cut off with a hoe or 
spud; but, if at all possible, cultivate all root land 
with the wide point before ribbing in the fall. 



FALL CULTIVATION'. 149 

The month of September is a specially good time 
to cut off all perennial weeds below the surface. By 
so doing the top is prevented from nourishing the 
root, and the next growth will be destroyed by the 
frost. This severe drain on the roots will weaken 
them, and a heavy crop of grain or clover the follow- 
ing season will be comparatively free from weeds. 

All root land should be ribbed (not plowed) in 
the fall, about twenty inches in width, and across 
the turnip drills, so as to incorporate the tops evenly 
with the surface soil. Run furrows (with the 
double mould-board plow) in the low portions to 
carry off the surface water. Land which is ribbed 
will keep much drier than land which is plowed in 
ridges of, say, fourteen feet wide. Besides the follow- 
ing crop will be much more abundant, as it will be 
more uniform. 

When root or corn land is plowed in the fall the 
following crop will frequently be lodged in the 
centre of the ridge, where a double portion of 
vegetable matter has been gathered, and in the 
furrows where the vegetable matter has been turned 
off there will not be half a crop. These are facts 
which are within the experience of every farmer. 



When and How 
to Sow Spring 
Grain, Clover 
and Grass 
Seed. 



Seeding and 
Care of 
Meadow and 
Pasture Lands. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

Cultivation for Spring Crops. 

See Diagram §4, page 102. 

We will now deal with No. 4 section of the 
farm plan, which is all for grain. 

vSpring grains follow the hoe crops, corn and 
roots, which received all the manure made on the 
farm the year previous. This has been kept on the 
surface along with the rotted clover sod from the 
previous fall, and gives us two or three inches of 
available plant food of the very best kind, suitable 
to grow an abundant crop of grain and clover. 

The fall wheat was sown the previous fall, after 
peas, and seeded with timothy at the same time the 
wheat was sown; the red clover and alsike being 
sown in the spring, with a grass seed sower (///. 32), 
at the rate of seven pounds red clover and three 
pounds alsike per acre. 

As soon as the land is dry, cross-harrow the fall 
wheat to break up and pulverize the crust that has 
been formed by the melting snows and spring rains. 
This will improve the wheat and insure a catch of 
clover. 

Spring wheat and oats should be sown as early 
as possible in the spring, following corn and roots. 

The ribs that were made up in the fall are first 
harrowed and cultivated down. If the subsoil is 
clay it should be loosened nine or ten inches deep 
with the stiff-tooth subsoiler, using three or four 
horses. Again harrow to a fine tilth. Then sow 
the wheat or oats with a grain drill at the rate of 
one and a quarter bushels per acre of good sound 
grain. The seed should be treated for smut in 



152 



RKWTE S AGRICULTURE. 



exactly the same way as that described for fall 
wheat on page 110. Clover and grass seed should 
be sown at the same time, in the following propor- 
tions: Seven pounds red clover, there pounds alsike, 
and four pounds timothy. Sow these in front of the 
grain spouts, so that the seeds will be sown on the 
surface and the grain spouts will throw the seed 
between the rows of grain, where they will not be 
liable to be choked out. After the grain is sown, 
harrow across with a lever harrow (see III. 76) or 
Breed's weeder, to smooth the surface. Do not roll 
until the land is thoroughly dry, even if by that time 




76. LEVER HARROW. 



the grain is three or four inches high. The roller 
will then pulverize the lumps of earth without 
making a smooth surface, which would encourage 
evaporation of the moisture in the soil. 

For the best results it is not only necessary to 
cultivate the soil on scientific principles, but it is also 
equally necessary to sow selected grain from a 
variety that will give the largest yield, and that of 
a good quality. 

While barley requires to be sown early in the 
spring for best results, it will not stand so much 
cold and wet as spring wheat and oats. It is advis- 
able, therefore, to sow the latter first and the barley 
later. 



CULTIVATION POF SPRTNG CROPS. 



153 



The land is prepared for barley the same as for 
wheat and oats, viz., by harrowing and cultivating 
down the narrow ribs made, in the fall. While it is 
necessary to loosen the subsoil for other crops, it is 
more so for barley, as this crop will very soon turn 
yellow in cold, wet soil. Sow with a grain drill at 







77. HAY TEDDER. 

the rate of one and a half bushels per acre of the 
heaviest yielding variety known. 

Barley ground should be also seeded with the 
same mixture as wheat and oats, so that the whole 
section (No. 4) will be in grass the following year. 

While it improves the quality of barley to cover 
the shocks with caps at harvest time, it is a question 
whether or not it pays to do so; but the same caps 
may be used for the clover, and this is a great ad- 
vantage in a wet season. 



154 kl '- N x [ E S AGRICULTURE. 

As soon as the grain crops are harvested, and 
before the stubbles are horse-raked, if there should 
be any portion of the clover and timothy rather 
thin through the grain lodging, or from any other 
cause, it is advisable to scatter seed over these places 
by hand, or with a grass seeder. By fall these parts 
will have made sufficient growth to stand the winter, 
and thus a uniform crop will be assured the following 
season. 

The following year No. 1 section (see Diagram 54) 
will be in hay or pasture, as desired. If the soil is 
in proper condition it will require no attention 
further than to keep all live stock off it. In the 
early spring, until the land is dry and the clover has 
made a good growth, harrowing meadows and 
pastures in the spring, with a chain harrow, will 
improve them. See III. 4. This pulverizes and 
smooths the surface, and consequently hastens 
vegetation. 

In deciding on a mixture of grass seed, the first 
thing to consider is the soil and purpose for which 
it is required. For hay it is necessary to sow a 
mixture which will mature at the same time. For 
pasture, although it is not absolutely necessary, it 
is preferable to sow varieties that mature at different 
times during the summer. 

In a rotation where the crop will be required 
both for meadow and pasture, and where the land 
varies so that some portions are dry while other parts 
are wet, the mixture recommended previously will 
give general satisfaction — that is, seven pounds red 
clover, three pounds alsike, and four pounds timothy 
per acre. 

The first crop will be nearly all red clover where 
the land is dry. The wet portions will yield only 
alsike and timothy. The second year the crop will 



CULTIVATION 



SI'KI NG CR< >PS. 



155 



be nearly all alsike and timothy, as the red clover is 
a biennial, while the alsike and timothy are peren- 
nials. Although it is not always necessary to mix 
any of the grasses with the clovers, it is always ad- 
visable to sow clovers with grasses. The latter are 
nitrogen feeders, and must have nitrogen in the 
soil, otherwise they will become sickly. It is well 
known that timothy sown without red clover will 
soon die out, whereas, if sown with red clover, it 
will grow luxuriantly for several years after the 
clover has died out. 

As a fertilizer our common red clover is a most 
valuable plant. It collects the free nitrogen from 
the air and deposits it in the roots near the surface 
of the soil, through the bacteria of nitrili cation. 
The tap roots strike deep into the subsoil and bring 
up soluble mineral matter sufficient to develop the 
plant, and this is made available to feed other crops. 
Thus, by growing clover in a short rotation of crops, 
the fertility of the soil can be maintained. Again, 
the clover roots perforating the subsoil and decaying 
there leave the subsoil more porous than it can be 
made with any implement. 

According to analysis clover hay, when properly 
cured, is worth considerably more than any other 
hay for feeding live stock of all kinds, including 
horses and pigs. It is the best flesh former and 
strength giver. It improves and balances the other 
rations, so that there will be less waste when feeding 
concentrated food. 

The curing of clover is an important matter. It 
should be cut when coming into full bloom, and 
shaken out with a hay tedder (III. ■/■/) soon after 
being cut. When it is sufficiently dry, rake it into 
wind-rows and put into ricks. All that was cut in 
the forenoon might thus be put up in the afternoon, 



Clover a Fer- 
tilizer, Subsoil- 
er and Flesh 
Former. 



Curing Clover 
Hay. 



156 rkxxie's agriculture. 

or more, if the weather is hot and dry. The proper 

place to cure both red clover and alfalfa is in the 

rick. Hay caps (see III. 78) are very little used in 

this country on account of the expense. They cost 

about forty cents each. 

cio°vTr n for The Province of Ontario is especially adapted 

^and 13 ™ 651 *"° the growing of both red clover and alsike for seed, 

Threshing. and an immense quantity is exported to Great 

Britain and Europe annually. The seed from alsike 

matures in the first growth. It is fertilized by the 




78. HAY CAP. 

honey bees distributing the pollen as soon as it comes 
into bloom, also by the wind scattering the pollen 
from the stamen to the pistil flowers. 

For the best success in raising alsike seed it is 
advisable that a few colonies of bees be kept in the 
neighborhood, and then with the wind and bees it 
may reasonably be expected that the clover bloom 
will be well fertilized, and without fertilization there 
can be no seed. It is a most important consideration 
in growing alsike clover for seed to have it free from 
weed seeds. "The Seed Control Act" passed by 



CULTIVATION FOR SPRING CROPS. 157 

Parliament in 1905 makes this absolutely necessary. 
Every farmer who intends to grow alsike and red 
clover for seed must first clean his farm of weeds. 
This can be accomplished by proper cultivation. 
Plow the beginning of August about four inches 
deep, then roll and harrow twice to form a mulch. 
In about two weeks cultivate 3 inches deep; then 
harrow; again roll and harrow to make a fine tilth 
to encourage all the seeds in the soil to germinate. 
Every two weeks cultivate with wide points, and 
harrow alternately until October; then spread eight 
or ten loads of well-rotted farm manure (free from 
weed seeds) per acre. Rib the field as described 
after a hoe crop. 

In the spring, level the ribs down with a harrow 
and cultivator, then drill in either oats or spring 
wheat, one and a quarter, or barley, one and a half 
bushels, per acre. Sow in front of the grain spouts 
ten pounds of pure alsike clover seed per acre, 
entirely free from weed seeds (even timothy seed). 

The same treatment applies to red clover, which 
should be sown at the rate of twelve pounds per 
acre, also free from weed seeds. In the care of 
clover, however, the ordinary mixture of red clover, 
alsike and timothy may be sown, and the first growth 
cut for hay, while the second growth of red clover 
can be kept for seed. The seed from red clover is 
matured in the second growth, on account of the 
fertilization being done by the young bumble bees, 
which are not sufficiently developed for the first 
growth of red clover, as they are all hatched in the 
spring. (Only the queen bumble bees live through 
the winter.) 

To get the largest yield and the best quality of 
red clover seed the first growth should be cut for 
hay early in June, when the first clover heads appear. 







1 < 




#.i m 





CULTIVATION 1'OK SPRING CROPS. 



159 



This is necessary in order to escape the red clover 
midge, which has proved so disastrous to the raising 
of red clover seed in most parts of Ontario for several 
years. The larvae from the first brood of the midge 
is deposited in the clover heads immediately they 
appear and before the bloom shows (when the midge 
are numerous very little bloom ever appears). 
When the clover is cut at this time and cured for 
hay most of the larvae are destroyed, and, even if 
any survive, the second growth of clover will be in 




:j "CP?P%' : W 



80. SELF-RAKE REAPER. 



full bloom before the second brood of midge are de- 
veloped. Occasionally we get a good crop of red 
clover seed by cutting the first crop late — say July, 
so that the second growth of clover will bloom 
between the second and third broods of midge; but 
this is uncertain, and has not nearly the same ad- 
vantage as is gained by destroying the midge by 
cutting early. 

If the first growth has been pastured, the cattle 
should be taken off by the 10th of June and the land 



. 1 60 R I ; , \ N 1 1-: ' S \GRIC UI/f I ' K k . 

gone over with a mowing machine (see III. yg) to 
cut off any weeds, and also to give the clover an 
equal start. 

It is worthy of note that a heavy growth of clover 
will check the growth of weeds and materially assist 
in cleaning the land. 




ti*i,tt 



81. MOWER WITH CLOVER SEED ATTACHMENT. 

Cutting clover for seed, both red and alsike, is 
usually done with the ordinary mowing machine and 
two men following to bunch, with the back of three- 
pronged forks, putting the bunch aside to clear 
the horses and machine. A second method is the 
old self-rake reaper. See III. 8o. With this 
machine the clover is bunched and put aside without 
any help. 

A third method of cutting clover for seed is to 



CULTIVATION FOR SPRING CROPS. 



161 



use the mowing machine, with a platform fastened 
behind on which the clover drops. See III. 81. A 
man puts it off in bunches, using a fork or rake. 

A fourth method is in using the pea-harvester 
attached to an ordinarv mowing machine. See 
TIL 57. 




82. HORSE RAKE- 



The bunches in either method require to be 
turned over occasionally so that the clover may dry 
quickly and thoroughly. This work should be done 
carefully, otherwise the best seed will be lost. The 
crop should remain out a week or ten days after 
being cut, or until it is sufficiently dry to be put into 
the barn or threshed. The best quality of clover 
seed, both alsike and red, is got by threshing it as 
taken from the field. 

The curing of timothy hay is, as a rule, an easier Curing of^ 
matter than curing clover. The very best quality 
of hay is made by putting up in ricks and allowing it 
to stand a few days, but this is not always necessary. 



Timothy Hay. 



162 



KHX-ME S AGRICULTURE. 



If the weather is dry and warm, shake out with the 
tedder (see III. 77) soon after it is cut, and rake it 
into wind-rows with a horse rake III. 82). If the 
weather is favorable timothy hay may be sufficiently 
dry the day it is cut to be taken into the barn. It 
is loaded on the waggon either with forks or with a 
hay loader. See III. 83. In conjunction with the 
hay loader is the side delivery rake. 

These are two great labor-saving implements for 
handling hay. The rake turns the hay and leaves 
it loose to dry out and in the best shape for the 
loader to handle it. 




A HEAVY CR"P OF GOLDEN VINE PEA; 



CHAPTER XIX. 
Alfalfa Clover. 
Alfalfa is one of the most profitable crops that Alfalfa— its 

t •* . Desirable 

a farmer can grow. It is destined to revolutionize Quality, 
farming in this country, being the great flesh-forming 
and milk-producing plant. It is indispensable for 
arriving at the best results in feeding animals, es- 
pecially dairy cows and hogs. It gives the earliest 




83. HAY LOADER. 

and best quality of feed in the spring. It will keep 
green and continue to grow during the driest 
weather until autumn, supplying an abundance of 
the most nutritious and succulent food during the 
whole summer. As a fertilizer it is the most valuable 
crop known to science. Being a leguminous plant, 
it is a collector of nitrogen, and on account of its 
luxuriant growth all summer it collects a very large 



164 rkxxje's agriculture. 

amount of this. Furthermore, the roots penetrate 
the soil several feet and act on the subsoil, bringing 
mineral matter to the surface that would never be 
reached by any other plant. When alfalfa is plowed 
up and the roots decay the whole subsoil is per- 
forated, so that the air and water have free access 
to the same. Because of all this alfalfa is the 
greatest of soil renovators. It has the advantage of 
being a perennial, so that if the conditions are favor- 
able it will produce three crops each season for many 
years, and of the most nutritious kind, for all 
animals. According to analysis this food is nearly 
equal to bran in nutritive value. For convenience 
in feeding green during the summer to horses, 
cattle, pigs, etc., it is advisable to select a few acres 
near the stables. See page 102. 

The writer has had considerable experience in 
growing and feeding this highly profitable fodder 
crop, and the following explanation of his cultiva- 
tion, if carefully followed, will lead to the successful 
growing of this clover in any part of Canada where 
red clover can be grown. If the land has not been 
prepared the previous fall according to directions 
for early crops, it may be prepared in the spring in 
time to sow alfalfa seed. Plow shallow, roll and 
harrow; in ten days cultivate and harrow. If the 
soil is clay, loosen ten inches deep with a subsoil 
plow or the stiff-tooth subsoiler. Again harrow; 
then spread on the surface fifteen or twenty loads of 
well rotted farmyard manure per acre ; after which 
cultivate and harrow until the manure is thoroughly 
incorporated with the soil. Then sow fifteen pounds 
of alfalfa seed to the acre with a grass seed sower 
(III. 52). vSow at the beginning of June (without 
any grain), also sow by hand five pounds of orchard 
grass seed per acre. Then give one stroke with the 
harrow or Breed's weeder. 



AT.FAI.IW CLOVER. 



165 



The orchard grass and alfalfa are both rapid 
growers, and when mixed make a better balanced 
ration, especially for horses and cattle. 




(Treated) (Untreated) 

84. AU'Al.l'A CLOVER. 

INCREASED RETURNS BY USE or NITRO-CULTURE. 

The first crop will be ready to cut in about two 
months. Do not cut or pasture late in the fall. 

After the first season it can be cut three times 
for hay and four or live times for green feed. As 
both alfalfa and orchard ^rass are perennials, there 
will be no cultivation required for years except a 



166 



kl'.XMK S AGRICULTURE. 



Inoculation of 
Alfalfa Seed. 



Alfalfa Adapted 
to Hillsides. 



Fertilization of 
Alfalfa. 



Alfalfa Meal. 



coat of farm manure each winter when the land is 
frozen, to make up for the vegetable matter that 
has been taken off with the crop. 

In some parts of Canada alfalfa has not been a 
success, owing, it is believed, to the want of the 
proper bacteria in the soil; but nitro-culture, with 
full directions how to apply it, is now being sent out 
by the agricultural colleges to all farmers who make 
application for it. 

After a farmer once gets a start he has simply 
to take surface soil from an inoculated field (about 
two hundred pounds per acre) and sow it over a 
held prepared for seeding. In this way the whole 
farm may be inoculated in due time. 

The writer has, however, tried alfalfa in several 
districts in Ontario, with abundant_ success, without 
any nitro-culture, simply by preparing the soil in 
the way previously explained, and sowing only when 
the soil is warm. The best months are May, June 
and July. The necessary bacteria cannot work in 
cold soil. See 111. 84. 

Alfalfa is specially adapted to hillsides that are 
liable to wash and difficult to cultivate. Such land 
should be seeded with fifteen pounds alfalfa and live 
pounds orchard grass per acre. This makes a good 
mixture to cut for hay or for pasture. For best 
results the first growth only should be cut for hay. 
After this the field will provide abundance of good 
pasture during the summer season, and this is pre- 
ferable to cutting two or three crops in one season. 

Alfalfa is fertilized by the honey bees the same 
as alsike. Either the first or second growth of 
alfalfa can be allowed to ripen for seed, but the 
second growth is preferable. 

Throughout Canada alfalfa meal has come to 
be recognized as an important food for bringing 



Al.l'Al.l' \ CLOVER. 



167 



cattle up to fine condition, especially show animals. 
It is also being used with good results for the same 
purpose in swine and poultry. This meal is made 
from alfalfa and sugar-beet molasses, in the propor- 
tion of seventy-live per cent, alfalfa and twenty-live 
per cent, molasses. There are a number of factories 
engaged in the manufacture of alfalfa meal. The 
hay must be kiln-dried before it can be ground. 
There is certainly nothing added to the alfalfa by 
kiln-drying and grinding, nor to the sugar-beets by 
being manufactured into molasses, except that the 
food is more concentrated. Equal results may be 
obtained by cutting the alfalfa hay and mixing with 
pulped sugar-beets, and at a fraction of the cost. 



7 A m 

'Jffl 
' ('. m 

*-• 


i v 


^ * >*. 


| ;Ji |* 


■A ^*t 

I, 





P( 



R( 



Ai.i ai.i'a Plant. 



Showing the tubercles or nodules 
formed by the nitrogen-gathering 
legume bactei ia. 



CHAPTER XX. 

Pasture and Soiling Crops. 

Past"ure. ent l n laying out a farm it is advisable to have a 

field near the barn for pasture and soiling crops. 
Eight acres, perhaps, are sufficient for permanent 
pasture. Adjoining this, about six acres might be 
seeded to alfalfa and orchard grass for cutting and 
feeding green (soiling). High, dry land is prefer 
able. Before seeding for permanent pasture the 
land should be thoroughly cultivated, and, if neces- 
sary, underdrained ; then manured and ribbed in 
the fall, so that it will be in good shape for spring 
cultivation, which should consist in harrowing and 
cultivating the ribs down level. Then, with a grain 
drill, sow barley at the rate of half a bushel per acre. 
At the same time sow ahead of the grain spouts the 
following mixture of grass seed: Alsike, three 
pounds; white clover, one pound; timothy, three 
pounds; blue grass, three pounds; red top, three 
pounds; total, twenty pounds per acre. After 
seeding, level off with a light harrow or Breed's 
weeder. 

When the barley is about a foot high cut it with 
a mowing machine (not too close), and leave it on 
the ground for a mulching. 

About two acres of the pasture land should be 
planted with maple trees (see Diagram 54), both for 
the purpose of ornament and shelter for the cattle. 
It is advisable not to seed this portion the first year, 
as the trees will make more rapid growth by keeping 
the land cultivated for another year. Mulch with 
farm manure. The silver leaf maple is hardy, and 
will make more rapid growth than the hard sugar 
maple. The former is desirable in this case, as it is 



Soiling Crops. 



PASTURE AND SOILING CROPS. 169 

wanted for shelter as soon as possible. It is ad- 
visable to plant the trees about twenty-five feet 
apart, so that the whole surface of the soil will be 
shaded and kept cool in the summer. 

In addition to alfalfa and red clover for soiling, Additional 
other crops may be grown for summer feeding while 
green, as a succulent food. It is essential to have a 
sufficient supply of green food in order to get the best 
results from all animals, including pigs, lambs, 
calves, and especially milch cows. Peas and oats 
and vetches and oats make an excellent mixture. 
Fifty pounds of peas or vetches and thirty pounds of 
oats (eighty pounds in all) should be sown to the 
acre. 

vSow one or two acres early in spring and a second 
sowing three or four weeks later. If this is more 
than is required for feeding green it can be cured for 
winter feeding. 

Near the end of May one or two acres of sweet 
corn can be sown, and kept thoroughly cultivated 
for the same purposes. This should yield fifteen 
tons per acre of a succulent food of the best quality. 

Dwarf Essex rape is also a desirable soiling crop. 
One or two acres of this may be sown beginning of 
June in drills twenty-six inches wide, and thoroughly 
cultivated. All animals are very fond of rape, and 
when mixed with other foods it gives the best results. 
All soiling crops should be grown convenient to the 
stables. For sheep, calves and pigs it is advisable 
to have a separate permanent pasture near the barn. 
See Diagram 54. For shelter, pigs require, in 
addition to a group of maple trees, a building to go 
into at will. 



CHAPTER XXI. 
Three Year Rotation. 
Three Years' Having fullv explained a four years' rotation of 

Rotation of ° , . " r , _ . " , . , 

Crops. crops, according to the Diagram 54, which, with 

certain variations, may be adopted on many farms 
in this country with success, it will now be in order 
to explain briefly the advantages and disadvantages 
of a three years' rotation. For this purpose divide 
the farm proper (that which is under cultivation) 
into three sections. < unit the second section of the 
four years' rotation (Diagram, page 102). 

Cultivate as follows: One section in red clover, 
for hay and pasture. This is plowed in August, 
rolled, harrowed and cultivated at intervals until 
( )ctober, according to various directions, then 
manured and ribbed. This is followed with a hoe 
crop and peas, then with a grain crop, again seeding 
with clover. 

This system is desirable when only a limited 
number of cattle are kept in the summer, the object 
being to feed cattle and lambs during the winter for 
export or home consumption. 

The advantages of this system are, first, the in- 
creasing and maintaining of soil fertility by plowing 
under the second growth of clover every third year, 
and feeding all the roots, corn, fodder and coarse 
grains. Secondly, the labor on the farm is more 
evenly distributed throughout the 3 ear by this 
system. 

With a disconnected or outlying portion of land 
it may not be convenient to manure and cultivate 
in the regular rotation. 

A three years' rotation may be followed by 
leaving out the hoe crops and farm manure and 



T IIKKK Yl<: \K ROTATION. 171 

having two sections grass, hay or pasture, and the 
third section grain, seeding with the regular mixture 
mentioned in the four years' rotation. 

The section that has been in grass for two years 
is plowed in August and thoroughly harrowed and 
cultivated alternately until October; then ribbed 
and sown with grain the following spring, and again 
seeded. 

With this system soil fertility can be maintained 
without applying manure. 

In any rotation land should not remain in grass 
longer than two years, on account of wire worms 
and other insects multiplying and so injuring the 
following crops. 

Land intended for pasture only should be reno- 
vated every few years by plowing in August, and in 
order to destroy the wire worms which are almost 
certain to be in the soil. 

Harrow and cultivate alternately and continu- 
ously until the winter, say November. The object 
is, first to rot the sod, and second, to rid the ground of 
wire worms by disturbing them late in the fall or 
beginning of winter, so that they may be frozen and 
destroyed. Seed again in the spring with the 
pasture mixture of clover and grass seed mentioned 
on page 168, seeding with any kind of spring grain 
(barley preferred) sown according to previous 
directions. 



Fencing. 



Few Cross 
Fences. 



Cross Fences 
under Certain 
Conditions. 



Portable 
Woven Wire 
Fences. 



Convenient 
Portable Fence. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

Fencing. 

Careful attention should be paid to the fencing 
of the farm. The outside or boundary fence re- 
quires to be a substantial structure so that it will 
turn any animal; at the same time it should not be 
unnecessarily expensive. 

Sectional or cross fences should be dispensed 
with as far as possible, as the work of erecting and 
maintaining these is expensive, and they are, more- 
over, harbors for weeds. Even on a stock farm it 
is not necessary to have more sectional fences than 
are shown on the diagram of a farm laid out for a 
four years' rotation of crops (///. 54, page 102), 
which is the longest course advisable in order to 
maintain the fertility of the soil. 

In a three years' rotation, fewer sectional fences 
are required, and where few animals are kept during 
the summer all the inside or cross fences may be 
dispensed with except those around the orchard, 
lawn or private grounds, and that enclosing a small 
field of permanent grass near the barn, to be used 
for pasturage and cutting for green feed. 

There are many stvles of portable woven wire 
fences offered for sale, several of which are cheap 
and efficient. A good portable fence which is being 
introduced into many sections of the country with 
entire satisfaction is constructed by using one of 
the many styles of woven wire fencing that are being 
manufactured and sent out in rolls, each being from 
twenty to forty rods in length. 

The posts used should be about four inches in 
diameter and seven feet long, with one end sharpened 
to a point. Hardwood is preferable for this purpose. 



FENCING. 



173 



The posts and wire may be drawn to the field on 
a waggon. Holes should be made in the ground 
about eighteen or twenty inches deep (with a round 
iron bar sharpened at one end) in line with the 
stakes that have previously been set for the fence. 
Then take a post, and, inserting the sharpened 
point, drive it down about two feet with a maul 
or sledge while standing on the waggon; then drive 
to the position for the next post, about thirty feet 
off, and repeat the operation. A few minutes is all 
the time required to set each post if the ground is 
in a moist condition. 



f 




85. WIRE STRETCHER. 



When the posts have all been set, unroll the fasten woven 

r Wire to Posts. 

woven wire, fasten it securely with staples to the 
end post, and tighten with the stretcher shown in 
///. #5, fastening the wire to each post with staples. 

The woven wire costs from forty to sixty cents cost of 
per rod, according to the style used. The posts 
cost about fifteen cents each, or an additional eight 
cents per rod. 

A fence so constructed is easily removed. Simply Removing 
draw out the staples and roll the wire on a barrel 
to prevent it from being broken in handling; take- 
up the posts and put all under cover. This causes 
the posts to dry hard and become much more 
durable. 



Portable Fence. 



Portable Fence. 



174 



]< i:\.\lK S AGRICULTURE. 



Permanent 
Woven Wire 
Fences. 



Prevent Posts 
Decaying. 



In the construction of permanent fences the 
durability of the posts is a very essential matter. 
They should be of cedar, about six inches in diameter, 
and long enough to be set about three or four feet in 
the ground and extend about two inches above the 
top wire of the fence. The portion which will be 
underground should be dipped in lime-wash to pre- 
vent rotting. 

Posts should either be rounded on the top or 
cut on a slant so that the rain will run ofT. They 



49 INCH. 




86. HORSE AND CATTLE FENCE. 



Style and 
Quality of 
Fence. 



Suitable Styles 
for Different 
Animals. 



should also be painted on the top with some mineral 
paint or cement wash. 

The next consideration is the style of fence. 
Woven wire is used more generally than any other. 
Provided the wire is of good quality a fence made of 
No. 9 wire, coiled spring steel, galvanized, will be 
satisfactory. A fence made of this wire will expand 
and contract with heat and cold without getting 
out of shape, and will last for many years. 

A suitable style of fence for horses and cattle is 
shown in III. 86, and for a hog, cattle and horse fence 
see 77/. 8j. To prevent hogs from raising the fence 
between the posts, fasten a wire to a piece of wood 
about four inches in diameter and a foot long. Bury 
this about twenty inches deep underneath the fence 



FENCING. 



175 



and fasten the wire that is attached to the centre 
of block to the bottom wire of the fence. Place 
these at such distances as are found to be necessary. 



55 INCH. 




87. HOG, CATTLE AND HORSE FENCE. 

For bracing or stretching wire in the construction 
of woven wire fences, see 77/. 88. 

On hilly land there is a difficulty in constructing How to Fence 
a satisfactory fence of woven wire. This can be y 




88. BRACING AND STRETCHING FENCE. 



overcome to a certain extent by setting the posts 
closer. A more satisfactory fence still can be made 
by stretching the strands of wire independently and 
putting the upright stays on either by hand or with 



176 



RK.XXIE S AGRICULTURE. 



a machine made speciallv for the purpose shown in 
///. 89. 
Garden n Gates -^ sizes and styles of gates are now supplied by 

the manufacturers of woven wire fences at reason- 




s' 1 . LONDON FENCE -MACHINE. 



able prices. The frames arc of wrought iron and 
filled in with woven wire. They are both durable 
and ornamental. ///. go. 




90. WOVEN WIRE GATE. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

Cake and Feeding of Live Stock. 

It is estimated that eighty per cent, of the grain 
grown in Ontario is fed on the farm. The grain 
is the raw material; the stock, butter, cheese, 
poultry and eggs the finished product. It is im- 
portant to produce the largest possible quantity of 
grain per acre; it is equally important to see that 
the best possible use is made of this grain in feeding 
it. 

The economic feeding of live stock is at the Economic 

. . Feeding. 

present time receiving special attention at our ex- 
periment stations, and during the past few years 
much knowledge has been gained in the preparing 
and balancing of foods for different animals, so that 
rations may be composed of the proper constituents 
and quantities most suitable for the desired objects 
to be gained and at the minimum cost. With our 
present knowledge we receive better results and at 
much less cost than in former years. 

The first object lesson we get from the "laws of J un ®. 

J ° Conditions 

nature" is "June conditions." When the weather 
is warm and the grass in a succulent condition the 
best results are obtained from our animals, more 
especially in milch cows. 

Provision should therefore be made for a con- 
tinuous supply of succulent food during the whole 
year, both by carrying over a quantity of silage and 
by growing soiling crops. Where alfalfa can be 
grown successfully there will be no need of sowing 
any other soiling crop for summer feeding. Where 
alfalfa cannot be grown, a mixture of peas and oats, 



178 



REX NIKS AGRICULTURE. 



Autumn 
Feeding. 



sown at intervals, will give an abundanee of succulent 
food during the summer season. 

In autumn, when the pastures are again green, 
and with a supply of corn, the cows should, provided 
they are kept comfortable, continue to give a full 
supply of milk, even if fed little or no grain. 




91. DEHORXIXG CATTLE. 



Warm and 
Comfortable. 



No farmer can afford to have his animals exposed 
to cold weather in the fall of the year. When the 
weather becomes cold all animals should be com- 
fortably housed, and not let out of doors except 
when the weather is warm, not even for exercise. 
According to experiments, cattle do better when 



CARE AND FEEDING OF LIVE STOCK. 179 

kept in a warm and properly ventilated stable all 
winter without being turned out of doors. 

That the cattle mav receive dailv exercise inside Dehorning 

J J Cattle. 

it is necessary to have them dehorned so that they 
cannot injure each other. See Til. gi. Dehorning 




92. A YOUNG TIOI.STKIN BULL. 



has now become quite common throughout the 
country. It makes the animals more docile and less 
fretful; consequently they do very much better. 
With the proper appliances, and an operator with 
some nerve, the work is simple and expeditious. 



180 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Exercising 
Animals. 



Water in 
Stables. 



Winter Feed. 



Nutritive Value 
of Fodder 
Crops. 



The horn should be cut off close to the head, other- 
wise a nubbin of a horn will grow again. 

With stables and stanchions arranged (as in plan 
33), the animals can be turned loose with little 
trouble. It is advisable to divide the cattle, when 
loose, in groups of eight or ten each, with temporary 
partitions between. 

If there is no provision for a water supply a 
tank should be kept filled in the stable, so that the 
cold chill may be taken off the water by the heat 
from the animals. By elevating the tank the water 
can be carried to any part of the stable with an iron 
pipe or a hose. 

The preparation of the food for cattle in winter 
will have to be varied according to the supply on 
hand. The first essential is clover hay, either alfalfa 
or red clover. Clover is a flesh former, and gives 
strength to the animals. It improves and balances 
the ration when mixed with other and more con- 
centrated foods. 

For economic feeding, corn silage is one of the 
most profitable crops that a farmer can grow. 
According to analysis, valuing alfalfa and red clover 
hay at six dollars per ton, corn silage is worth two 
dollars and fifty cents. Practical results depend 
very much on the preparation of foods. 

While dry fodder corn, according to analysis, 
compares favorably with silage, yet in practical tests 
there is considerable difference in favor of the silage. 
While field roots are composed of from eighty-five 
to ninety per cent, water, yet they are important in 
the preparation of a succulent winter food. With 
a supply of clover hay, straw and chaff, silage and 
roots, prepared according to the following directions, 
satisfactory results may be gained. 

First, spread on the floor of the feed room a layer 



182 



RKXXIK S AGRICULTURE. 



Allow Several 
Hours to 
Moisten. 



Quantities of 
Mixture. 



Alternative for 
Deficiency. 



Feeding Meal 
in Mixture. 



of cut clover and cut straw or chaff three or four 
inches deep. Over this sprinkle a little salt, esti- 
mating that each animal receive three quarters of an 
ounce per day. Make the second layer of silage 
about two inches deep; the third another layer of 
cut clover and chaff, with another sprinkling of salt ; 
the fourth layer, pulped turnips, mangels, or sugar- 
beets, about two inches deep; the above order to 
be kept until the heap is about four feet high. The 
pile should be tramped and kept perpendicular at 
the edges. The size of the heap will of course vary 
according to the number of animals to be fed. 

It is advisable to prepare sufficient for a day, 
and several hours ahead, so that the whole mass will 
become quite moist by the liquid from the roots 
soaking through the cut feed, and the fermentation 
from the silage warming up the whole mass, making 
it succulent like grass. 

Tn preparing the mixture the following propor- 
tions may be taken as a guide: Silage, twenty-five 
pounds; roots, twenty pounds; cut clover and 
chaff, fifteen pounds; total, sixty pounds. This 
should be varied according to the capacity of the 
animals. 

As a substitute for clover hay, pea straw may 
be used with satisfactory results, as this is also one 
of the legumes. In case of a shortage of pulped 
roots the cut feed may be moistened with water, and 
in case of a shortage of silage, additional grain 
should be fed. When feeding the above mixture 
commence at one end, so that the quality will be 
equal for each animal. 

To get the best results from feeding grain it 
should be ground and mixed with bran, and in case 
of all the cattle getting grain it is advisable to put 
the required amount on each layer of cut clover 



CARfi AND l'*l-: i;ni X<". <>K I,IVK STOCK. 

and chaff. Different animals require varying quan- 
tities of grain according to circumstances. In the 
case of milch cows, for example, those that give 
forty pounds of milk per day require more grain 
than those giving half that amount. 

This has much to do with the results. Cattle 
should be fed early in the morning during the winter 
season, say between five and six o'clock. The cows 
should be milked, stables cleaned out and cattle 
bedded and watered before breakfast. They should 
be fed no more than they will eat in an hour and a 



183 



How and When 
to Feed. 




94. TUlv BLACK AND WHITE CATTLE- 



half. If any food be left over it should be cleaned 
away. When animals are not disturbed after being 
fed in the morning ihey will rest contented until 
noon. No animal should be fed between meals. 
For best results and health of animals this is im- 
portant. 

For cows giving milk the following ration will Miidfcows. 
give satisfactory results, and at a moderate cost: 
In the morning feed the above mixture, prepared 
as directed. If no ground meal and bran have 
been put in the mixture, scatter over the ration 
when in the manger ground grain and bran mixed, 
two pounds of the former and one of the latter. At 



184 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Feeding Store 
Cattle. 



Exercise In- 
doors. 



Commercial 
Foods. 



Flesh Forming 
Foods. 



Kind Treat- 
ment. 



Results of 
Abuse. 



noon, clover hay and mangels (whole), without 
grain. The evening ration the same as that of the 
morning. The feeder must, of course, use judgment 
in varying the amount of feed to suit the individual 
requirements of each animal. 

Young cattle and cows not in milk require onlv 
the prepared mixture in the morning, clover hay 
at noon, and the mixture in the evening. Total 
cost, about seven cents per day, according to cir- 
cumstances. This is sufficient to keep them in 
good growing and health}' condition. 

It is understood that the animals are to be com- 
fortably housed, and not turned out-of-doors in 
cold weather, otherwise it will require more grain 
to keep up the animal heat. 

Good results can be obtained without commercial 
foods. A limited quantity of oil-cake and cotton- 
seed meal may be fed to milch cows and beefing 
cattle to advantage, provided the cost is in propor- 
tion to the nutritive value of other foods on the 
farm. 

For the health and development of voting cattle 
they should be given foods that will produce flesh, 
bone and muscle, viz., clover, bran, roots, rape, etc. 
Fattening foods tend to disease and stunted de- 
velopment. 

While every provision mav be made for the 
comfort of the animals, and the feeding done strictlv 
in accordance with the above directions, the animals 
will not give adequate returns for the food consumed 
unless they receive kind treatment. This is particu- 
larly noticeable with milch cow--, say in the month 
of June. 

When on pasture and giving a large quantity of 
milk, if brought from the field hurriedly by a dog, or 
a person on horseback, and milked while excited, 



CARE AXD FEEDING 0E LIVE STOCK. 



18f 



the average results will be about half the usual quan- 
tity. Some of the more nervous cows will not give 
one-fourth the usual quantity of milk, and, accord 
ing to analysis, there is less butter fat in the milk. 
Any farmer who will abuse his animals, or allow them 
to be abused, had bitter go out of the business. He 
cannot expect to get returns for the food consumed. 

Cattle must be kept free from vermin during Preparation of 
the winter. They should be treated with about y " 01 ' 
three applications of seal oil (fish oil) and crude 
carbolic acid, mixed, one gallon of the former and 
Jive tablespoonfuls of the carbolic acid. Apply by 
either spraying or with an ordinary cattle brush, 
rubbing the cattle over the body. For about three 
months during the summer, when the horn fly is 
annoying the cattle, apply the above mixture once a 
week and the fly will not trouble them. Cattle 
which have been treated for the horn fly in summer 
with this preparation are not affected with warbles 
in winter. 

In considering the comfort of the animals, a Shelter in 
consideration which is essential to success is pro- 
tection from the hot summer sun. They may be 
kept in the house during the heat of the day. This, 
of course, is attended with some additional labor. 
vSuch labor can be avoided by having several groups 
of maple and other trees, a quarter of an acre or 
more in extent, on rising portions of the farm. Trees 
planted about twenty feet apart give excellent 
shelter to the cattle, besides being ornamental. The 
advantage of having the trees grouped is that the 
sun cannot shine in to heat the ground, and when 
on rising ground there is usually a current of fresh air. 

Single trees scattered over a farm give little scattered 
shelter, and standing in growing crops they are a objectionable, 
decided injury to the crop. 



Holstein. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

Breeds of Cattee. 

In addition to the feeding and care of animals 
there is the question of the breed that will give the 
best returns. This is a debatable question, par- 
ticularly as regards milch cows. 




9b. TWO WHITE-FACED BEAUTIES. 

The large black and white "Holstein " (see Ills. Q2, 
Q4) is no doubt the largest producer of milk, although 
as a rule this milk is not so rich in butter fat as that 
of some of the other breeds. Yet there are in- 
dividual animals of the Holstein breed that give 
rich milk and that have made remarkable records. 



188 



KK.XXIK S AGRICULTURE. 




BREEDS OF CATTLE. 



189 



Increasing 
Production. 



Selecting a 
Milch Cow. 



These animals have excellent digestive organs, and 
can make the best use of food. A delicate feeding 
cow is not a profitable animal. 

While the quantity of milk can be increased In- 
judicious feeding, the butter fat will remain in 
about the same proportion, but the flavor and color 
of the milk is changed materially by certain foods. 
Pumpkins fed in fall will give a rich tint to the butter. 

When cows are exposed to cold weather the Effect of Cold, 
butter will be white in color, even though the food 
is of the best. Milch cows should be kept housed 
in the winter in a stable with the temperature at 
about sixty degrees, milked at regular hours, and 
by the same person. 

In the selection of a milch cow, consider the 
following points: First, the "wedge shape" of the 
animal; a head fine and long; neck thin; large 
square udder, not fleshy; barrel deep and round. 
There are other signs, but all of them fail in some 
animals, since the ancestors have much to do in 
stamping the off spring. There are other things to 
consider in developing a milker. One is to have 
the heifer come in at two years of age and milk for 
at least one year. 

The most popular dairy cow in Scotland is the 
"Ayrshire." See III. gj. The Ayrshire has the 
typical wedge-shape of the dairy animal. The 
horns have an upward curve, the shoulders are thin, 
and the loins broad. The prevailing color is a red- 
dish brown and white. The udder is large, and the 
cows are particularly hardy. After milking for a 
number of years, Ayrshires can be fattened better 
than any of the other dairy breeds. 

For a fancy cow, and for making "gilt edge" 
butter, the Jersey or Guernsey (see III. q8) stand at 
the head. While the Jersey does not give as large 



Popular Dairy 
Cows. 



Fancy Butter 
Cow. 



190 RKXXIR*S AGRICULTURE. 

a quantity of milk as the Holstein or Ayrshire, the 
milk is as a rule richer in butter fat and superior in 
quality. The butter is also more marley, and does 
not get oily in warm weather like that from other 
breeds. Both the butter and cream command high 
prices. 

jersey Cow. As to shape, the Jersey has all the characteristics 

of a dairy cow — the deep, well ribbed body, and 
udder and escutcheon large, with large milk veins 
running \vcll forward. The favorite color is a 
solid fawn. 

The Guernsey is a larger animal, with the butter 
quality of the Jersey. 

Beef Breeds p or d a ir\- purposes the beef breeds are not satis- 

not for Milk. J r r 

factory. v Some of them give a large quantity of 
milk for a few months, but then as a rule they 
commence to put the results of the feed on their 
back instead of in the pail. The same is the case 
with many of the cows that are cross bred between 
the dairy and beef breeds. In using such cows for 
dairy purposes it is advisable to milk them until 
they cease to give a paying quantity of milk and 
are read}' for the butcher, then sell and replace 
them with fresh milk cows. 
Br^edVe'st ^ n deciding on what breed to keep, one should be 

Adapted to governed according to his fancv, and the market 

Circumstances. ° ° 

for which the produce is intended, whether a cheese 
factory, creamery, or a home dairy. If either, or 
both of the former, the Holstein and Ayrshire will 
give the largest returns. For a home dairy, with 
an opportunity to work up a fancy city trade in 
cream and butter, the Jersey or Guernsey will fill 
the bill. There is an advantage in keeping pure- 
bred animals over grades, as the calves are worth 
much more. 

After the first week calves that are intended for 



BREEDS OF CATTLE. 



191 



the dairy should be fed skim milk, with a teacupful 
of ground flax-seed and middlings. These should 
be mixed before grinding. This prevents the mill 
from clogging. To keep the calves growing, feed 
liberally with bulk}', succulent food, composed 
largely of clover, roots and silage. The heifers 
should have their first calf when two years of age. 




SORGHUM— A VAl.i \i:i.l. FORAGE PLANT FOR MUCH COWS. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

Cattle for Beef. 

The beef breeds of cattle are entirely different Beef Breeds, 
from the "wedge-shaped" dairy breeds. In the 
first place, their general form is broad, deep, smooth 
and even, with parallel lines. Next in importance 
is a thick, even covering of the right kind of meat 
in the parts that give the high-priced cuts. Broad, 




99. SHORTHORN' HEIFER — "NONPAREIL BUD II." 

well-covered back and ribs are necessary, and no 
other good point will compensate for the lack of 
this quality. A good feeding animal should handle 
soft and mellow and have a vigorous constitution, 
which is indicated by a broad chest, well sprung ribs, 
large heart girth, and general robust appearance. 

The vShorthorn (see Ills, gg-ioo) has more admirers shorthorn 
in this country than any other of the beef breeds, 



194 



REXXIES AGRICULTURE- 




CATTLE FOR BEEF. 



105 



and in cross breeding the prepotency of the sire is 
more pronounced than that of any other of the beef 
breeds. A marked change in market demand has 
taken place of recent years, the consumers now 
calling for early maturity, with a plump carcass of 
medium weight and minimum offal. Large, rough 
and patchy animals are no longer wanted. 




101. SAVE THE CALVES. 



The Hereford (see III. 102) is similar in conforma- Hereford, 
tion to the Shorthorn, and, like the latter, have 
been bred for beef; consequently they are seldom 
kept for dairy purposes. Their native home is 
Herefordshire, England. Their color is red with 
white face and white points. Formerly the horns 
were long and turned up. The present fancy is for 



196 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 




CATTLE K0R BRISK. 



197 



shorter horns and turned down. Herefords are 
excellent grazers, and a herd of this breed has an 
attractive appearance. 

The Aberdeen x\ngus (see Ills. 103-4) * s another of Angus 66 " 




103. ABERDEEN ANGUS HEIFER — 1ST PRIZE. 

the popular beef breeds of cattle. As the name 
indicates, the native home of the breed is Aberdeen- 
shire, Scotland. The color is black, and animals are 
without horns. For quality of flesh they have no 
superior. They have been bred for beef; conse- 
quently are not intended for the dairy. 



198 



RENNIE'S agriculture. 



29M I 



,n < ■ ,:, , 



J^fltll 







CATTLE FOR BEEF. 



199 



There are other beefing breeds of cattle, viz., Galloway, 
Galloway, Sussex, Devon and the Highland Cattle. SS'SghUnd? 
These all have certain good qualities, but on account of 
their smaller size have not become generally popular. 

Calves of the beefing breeds require better care Care of Calves, 
and feed than the dairy breeds. In order to get 
the best and quickest returns it is advisable to feed 
them whole milk for one or two months. This 
should be followed with good, succulent food, com- 




rORTERHOUSE ROAST. 



posed of clover, rape, roots, bran and silage. Iyittle 
grain should be fed until the frame is developed. 

With good comfortable stabling and abundance Buying steers 
of fodder, roots and coarse grain, it is advisable to Feeding" 
manufacture the feed into beef on the farm by buying 
two-year-old steers (of the beefing type) in the fall, 
for winter feeding. For this purpose, select only 
young animals, blocky, smooth, with wide backs 
and loose hides, weighing between ten and eleven 
hundred pounds. They should be finished in six 
months, weighing then thirteen hundred pounds 
or over. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
Horses. 



Horses on the 
Farm. 



Modern 
Clydesdale. 



Grade Mares. 



English Coach 
Horse. 



Demand for 
Coach Horses. 



English Shire. 



In rearing horses the farmer should have two 
objects in view, viz., rearing for his own use, and for 
the market. The ordinary farmer should confine 
himself to heavy horses. 

The modern Clydesdale (see III. 106) is a smooth 
animal and of general good quality. There is an 
advantage in starting with registered mares, so that 
their line of breeding may be traced back for several 
generations. If there should be a strain of the 
fleshy, coarse-legged type, have nothing to do with 
them. 

For grade mares whose breeding is unknown 
there should be used only a registered sire whose 
ancestors are of the smooth type, and himself of 
good quality from the feet up. 

Another breed of horse suitable for the farmer 
is the Cleveland Bay, or English Coach Horse. 
This is a most useful general purpose animal for 
the farmer and for the market. 

At the present time there is more demand for 
heavy coach horses than for any other type. In 
selecting brood mares, give the preference to those 
that are registered. Other things being equal, 
select large and stylish animals, with good knee 
action. Use only a registered stallion whose line 
of breeding is of the right type, one full of quality 
and knee action. 

For heavy dray work the English Shire is the 
most popular horse. In Liverpool and London, 
England, it is quite common to see three of those 



202 



RF.XXIES AGRICULTURE. 



Hackneys and 
Roadsters. 



Care and Feed- 
ing of Horses. 



Summer 
Ration. 



monster animals, each weighing over a ton, hitched 
tandem to a large dray (waggon). 

The Hackneys and Roadsters are fancy animals, 
too small for farm work. 

The thoroughbred race horse, and the trotter, 
are for the sport. 

The mongrel cross-bred horse is usually a dis- 
appointment. 

The winter ration for farm horses that are work- 
ing moderately should be cut clover, timothy, hav 
and corn silage, mixed a few hours previous to 
feeding. This should be fed morning and evening, 
all that the animals will eat in an hour and a half, 
with two pounds of crushed oats and one pound of 
bran (mixed) at each feed. At noon give cut hay 
and fifteen pounds of whole roots. 

For summer ration, when horses are working 
hard, give cut timothy and clover hay and silage 
mixed), all they will eat in an hour and a half, three 
times each day, with four pounds of crushed oats 
and one pound of bran mixed. Water before and 
after feeding. Clover hay is a flesh former, and is 
especially suitable for horses that are working hard, 
but it must be properly cured and not musty. 

It is advisable to moisten the feed with silage, 
pulped roots, or lime water. Hay cut in a cutting 
box should be cut long for horses, to prevent irritation 
of the stomach. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 
Sheep. 
This country is specially adapted for the rearing Various Breeds 
of sheep, on account of the clear and dry atmosphere, 
and sheep are not here subject to the diseases that 
are prevalent in those countries where the at- 
mosphere is more humid. 




108. COTS wold. 

There are breeds to select from which are suited Select Accord- 
to the various circumstances and conditions. The Conditions, 
farmer must decide this question for himself. 

If the farmer is prepared to give the necessary Special care 
care and attention, the chances are that one of the or ong Wo0 '' 
long-wool breeds will be most profitable; but he 
must be prepared to house these in rainy weather, 
or their wool, which is long and open, will hang on 
the animals like a wet blanket, and this is very 
injurious. 



204 



RENNIE'S AGRICULTURE. 



Cotswold 
Described. 



The largest of the long-wool breeds is the 
Cotswold. See III. 108. Cotswolds are well pro- 
portioned, and lay on flesh evenly. They have a 
prominent crest of long wool on the head, and are 
well covered below. An ordinary flock of Cotswolds 
will yield an annual fleece of wool of from thirteen 
to fourteen pounds each. 

The next in order is the Lincoln. See III. log. 
This is a more compact animal. The body is evenly 




covered with flesh and long curly wool. There is a 
crest on the head. The annual yield of wool is equal 
to that of the Cotswold. 

The other long- wool breed is the Border Leicester. 
See III. no. This is an attractive, upstanding and 
lengthy animal, with clean head and legs, wool 
usually in ringlets. One objection to these animals 
is that they are liable to get bare below at an earlv 



SHEEP. 



205 



age. They arc noted for a good covering of flesh 
on the back and ribs. Their average clip of wool 
is about two pounds less than that of the Cotswold 
and Lincoln breeds. 

The English or Blue-face Leicester is more 
blocky, with a heavier fleece, and is better covered 
below. 




110. BORDER LEICESTER. 



The Downs, or fine-wool breeds, will endure 
exposure to rain and damp weather better than the 
long-wool breeds, on account of their fleeces being 
more dense. 

The Oxford Down (see III. in) is a heavy, com- 
pact sheep, with medium wool, and a crest on the 
head, with brown face and legs. This and the other 
Downs are noted for a superior quality of mutton. 
The average weight of wool from a flock is from 
eight to nine pounds. 



The Down 
Breeds. 



The Oxford 
Down. 



206 



KKXXIH S AGRICULTURE. 



Shropshires. 



The South 
Down. 



Next in order of the fine-wool breeds is the 
Shropshire. See III. 112. This is a very compact 
animal, full of quality, both of flesh and wool. The 
wool is of a fine silky texture, with which the entire 
body is covered. The face and legs are dark. The 
average weight of fleece is from eight to nine pounds. 

The most compact and hardy of all these breeds 
is the South Down. See III. 113. This is a smaller 
animal than the other breeds, but the deficiency in 




111. OXFORD DOWN. 



Other Breeds. 



size is made up in quality, both of flesh and wool, 
which are superior to those of any of the other 
breeds. The average weight of fleece is from seven 
to eight pounds. 

There are other breeds, as the Dorset, Hamp- 
shire, Suffolk, etc., each having their special char- 
acteristics. 

For the first it is claimed that they will raise two 
crops of lambs per year, but this is not practicable 



SHEEP. 



207 



Again, having horns, they are said to be able to take 
care of themselves against dogs. 

For the dog nuisance, lead is more effectual, and Shoot D °es. 
every farmer who has a valuable flock of sheep 
should keep a loaded gun in a convenient place, and 
when he finds a dog chasing his sheep he should 
shoot it, depending on the law for protection. 




UIROPSTIIRK 



The feeding and exercise of breeding ewes re- Feeding of 
quires special attention. In the autumn, when being Ewes " 
mated, they should receive extra food. Nothing is 
better than a feed of rape each day. It is advisable 
to have lambs come early in the spring, provided 
the ewes have a warm pen. The lambs should have 
a compartment in the pen (arranged so that the 
ewes cannot get in), and where they can receive 
extra feed of pulped roots, cut clover, bran, bruised 
oats and ground flax (mixed). The lambs should 
be docked when a week old. 



208 rennies agriculture. 

Early Rape. Have some early rape ready for them by the 

middle of July (weaning time), so as to keep them 
growing and so develop a strong, healthy frame. 

Dipping sheep. Soon after lambing, the ewes should be shorn, 
and both the ewes and lambs dipped with one of the 
commercial dips (following the printed directions). 
Ewes and lambs should also be dipped in the 
autumn. 






: -;' 





*»*© 



113. SOUTHDOWN. 

winter Care. In winter sheep require a drv and thoroughly 

ventilated building which is not too warm, but free 
from draughts; not too many in a pen. See plan 
of sheep house (III. 35). The breeding ewes should 
have daily exercise, either in a yard or field. 

Feeding sheep. Feed morning and evening the following mixture, 
prepared a few hours before feeding: Cut clover 
(salted), pulped turnips, silage, and a little bran. 
The quantity fed should be what they will eat in an 
hour and a half. Xoon ration : Pea straw or clover 
hay, fed outside in racks. See III. 38. 




fflP>>- 



Those farmers who prefer not to breed sheep, 
but to follow the system of winter feeding, should 
buy a sufficient number of wether and ewe lambs 
to fill the sheep house in the autumn. For the first 
two months feed according to the directions given for 
breeding ewes, then for finishing add to the mixture 
a little chopped grain, peas, barley and oats. This 
method as a rule is very profitable. On no account 
buy old sheep to feed, unless it is for soap grease. 



Winter 
Feeding. 




115. HAMPSHIRE LAMBS. 



Swine. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 
Swine. 

I )uring recent years all the popular breeds of 
swine have undergone a change to suit the trade, 
which now calls for juicy flesh instead of fat. The 
big fat hog has had to give way to one of an entirely 
different type (see III. ny), one with larger bodv 




FIRST PRIZE RAM LAMBS. 

and hams for the most expensive cuts, and les-> width 
on back. See III. up. The hog should carry its 
width evenly from shoulder to tail, with light 
shoulder and jowl, as these are cheap cuts. 

The change noted was first brought about by 
a desire to cater to the trade of Great Britain, which 
demands pork of a fleshy and better quality. Our 
home trade is also undergoing a change in the same 
direction. The fat pork that was popular some 



212 



KENNIES AGRICULTURE. 



Change of 
Type. 



years ago is no longer wanted. The fat on the back 
must not exceed one and a half inches thick. What 
is wanted is a fleshy hog, about eight months old, 
and rather under than over two hundred pounds. 

While great progress is being made in the change 
of type, still, so far, none of our present breeds of 
swine conform exactly to the ideal aimed at. To 
fix a type will take years to accomplish, even by our 




OXFORD DOWX SHEARLING EWES. 



most expert breeders, and whether this will be by 
cross-breeding or through one of our present breeds 
is difficult to say. 
Feeding Swine. Even after we have got the typical hog the work 

is only half done. The compounding and preparing 
of foods to produce the best quality of flesh is yet 
in the experimental stage, and will evidently take 
some time before the results will be entirely re- 
liable, so as to produce a uniform good quality of 
flesh. 



SWINE. 



213 




214 



:i:\ X IK S AGRICULTURE. 



Feed for 
Young Pigs. 



Feed for 
Finishing. 



Salt and Ashes. 



In order to keep young pigs growing alter being 
weaned, they should be given a certain quantity of 
skim milk, along with other feed, which at first should 
be composed largely of middlings with a little ground 
flax-seed. When about three months old, add bran, 
pulped roots, and green clover or rape, and a little 
ground grain, peas, barley and oats, mixed. In 
winter, alfalfa clover should be cut and scalded for 
them. Mix the whole together, and feed a limited 
quantity morning, noon and evening. When the 
pigs are live or six months old increase the grain, 
and feed less of the bulky food. 

For the last six weeks, in finishing, the morning 
and evening rations may be largely of chopped 
grain, including corn. Do not give more than they 
will consume in one hour. At noon feed sugar-beets 
or mangel- wurzels raw, without grain. This system 
of feeding keeps the pigs in a healthy and growing 
condition, and makes a juicy quality of flesh. 

During the winter, when housed, hogs require 
old sods, also salt and hardwood ashes, with proper 
care and feeding. Xo animal on the farm will give 
quicker returns than the hog. Neither will any yield 
larger profits, provided too many are not kept and 
skill is used in the feeding. The best returns are 
obtained where hogs are used to turn to account 
the by-product of the dairy, the gleanings of the 
field, and products which would otherwise be 
wasted. The free use of alfalfa, either in winter or 
summer, will also greatly add to the profits which 
may be made. 

To get the best results from a brood sow she 
should receive kind treatment, so that she will be 
gentle and kind. This has a very good influence 
on her offspring. With proper care the sow will 
raise two litters per year, say March or April and 



SWlNg. 



215 



September or October, rearing on the average from 
seven to eight pigs each time. As this means a 
heavy drain on the system of the sow, she will re- 
quire to be fed accordingly. 

In winter, feed skim milk, bran, pulped roots winter Food 

, , , . . , . , and Exercise. 

and chopped grain, morning and evening, and at 
noon sugar beets or mangels only. Exercise is 
necessary, but she should not be turned out of doors 
in very cold weather. As a substitute for skim milk 




TZT 



a ft 

120. PORTABLE ITG HOUSE. 



fill a barrel or milk can with hot water, stir in a little 
middlings, oil-cake and chopped grain, and cover 
over for a few hours. Figs, both young and old, 
should have in addition all the pure water they 
wish to drink. 

In summer, young growing pigs should have the 
run of a clover patch, but when finishing for market 
keep them in the house where they will be com- 
fortable and clean. 



Summer Food 
for Swine. 



216 



KENNIES AGRICULTURE. 



Portable Pig 
Houses. 



Tht brood sow should have the run of a clover 
patch in summer. A small portion of the clover 
held may be hurdled off and a portable pig house 
(see III. 120) constructed to shelter the animals from 
the hot sun and storms. Each brood sow should 
have a separate enclosure and a portable house in 
which to rear her young in summer. The same style 
of house may be used for the young pigs during the 
summer. In order to get the best results it is nec- 
essary to provide shelter in the clover or rape pasture 
during the summer season. A pair of horses will 
haul the portable pig house wherever required. 




TRUE DWARF ESSEX RAPE. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

Poultry. 

Poultry are kept on most farms, but, as a rule, 
receive indifferent treatment. Seldom have the 
fowls a house to protect them from the storms and 
cold weather, and they are allowed to roost out-of- 




l'EEDING TIME. WHITE LEGHORNS. 



doors, on implements, fences, trees, etc., in all 
kinds of weather. When a house is built for them 
it is frequently quite unsuitable for their health 
and comfort, so that the results are not satisfactory. 
For plan of hen house, with modern con- 
veniences, see 77/. 27 and end view (77/. 28), show- 
ing position of nest, roost, and feed trough. This is 
on the south side of the implement house, and 



Plan of Poultry 
House. 



218 rk win's agriculture. 

isolated from the cattle stables, which is desirable. 
The size of the building here drawn is twelve feet 
wide by fifty-two feet long. This can be made 
shorter or longer according to the requirements. 
There is a passage of three feet on the north side. 
The balance is divided, with wire netting, into six 
compartments, which are eight and a half feet 
square. These are of ample size for ten or twelve 
hens each. The roof over the passage is nine feet 
high with a fall of six inches. This is covered with 
inch boards, tar-paper and shingles, or ready roofing. 
The main roof is seven feet high, next the passage, 
and is covered with inch boards, tar-paper and 
shingles, or ready roofing. The south side is two feet 
high, sheeted on the outside with tar-paper and 
boards. From the top of this lower wall to the 
main roof are window frames three feet high. The 
inside of the poultry house, including sides, ends 
and roof, should be sheeted with matched lumber. 
The inside of the poultry house should be white- 
washed every spring. Take out the glass and tack 
muslin or cheap factory cotton over the openings 
at the same time. This will admit fresh air, and will 
not attract the heat from the sun during the summer 
season. Some expert poultrv men use cotton or 
muslin instead of glass during both summer and 
winter with satisfactory results. Openings near 
the roof and covered with muslin or cotton are an 
advantage in keeping the poultry- house dry in winter. 
This admits fresh air and allow r s the foul air to 
escape. 
wftl^Trou h ^ ne * ee ^ trough is placed . in the passage, and 

provided with round uprights, two inches apart, or 
sufficient for the fowl to put their heads between to 
feed. The}' may be watered in the same way. 
Xests, roosts and board for droppings should be 



220 



RKWIF. S AGRICULTURE. 



Winter Eggs. 



Disposing of 
Poultry. 



How to Feed. 



Care of Hens 
When Laying. 



moveable. The latter can be made to tilt into a 
box or wheel-barrow in the passage. Every pre- 
caution should be taken to make the poultry house 
frost-proof in very cold weather. Artificial heating 
is only required in one room for early chicks. 

Pullets will commence to lay when eight months 
old, say at the beginning of November, and continue 
laying all winter, or during the time when fresh eggs 
are a much higher price than in summer. In a flock 
of fifty or sixty hens the difference amounts to con- 
siderable. The object should be to raise early 
chicks for laying in winter instead of summer. 

Arrange to keep the pullets for two winters, and 
with proper care and feeding they will be in good 
condition for table use in the months of May and 
June, after their second winter's laying. At this 
season of the year even old hens bring high prices. 
The male chicks should be fattened and sold when 
four or five months old. 

At first feed bread crumbs or rolled oats, then 
ground corn, peas, barley and oats, mixed with skim 
milk; also give ground bone and flesh, with green 
vegetables or roots. When fattening, confine to a 
small pen; furnish all the grit and pure water they 
wish. Give all the feed they will eat, and keep them 
free from vermin by using some insecticide or kero- 
sene. 

To get the best results from hens in producing 
eggs, induce them to take plenty of exercise by 
scattering their food, composed of corn, peas, barley, 
oats and wheat, among chaff, so that they will have 
to scratch for it. In winter they should receive a 
liberal ration of cut clover, ground bone and flesh; 
also middlings, mixed with skim milk, and all the 
vegetables they wish, such as cabbage, sugar-beets, 
etc. Grit and pure water should be in abundant 
supply at all times. 




123. BRONZE TURKEY. A STATELY CHAP. 



222 

Dust Bath. 



Trees for 
Shelter. 



When to Mate. 



REN N IE S AGRICULTURE. 

The floor in the southern portion of the pen 
should be covered with coarse sand, for the fowl to 
take a dust bath. This is necessary to keep them 
clean. In summer hens should have the run of a 
paddock of green sward enclosed with a woven wire 
fence. 

The paddock may be planted with groups of 
evergreen and deciduous trees for shelter from the 
hot sun in summer. In the plan (see Diagram 54), 




MADE IN" POUR 
SIZES. 

390-400 Egg Standard Cyphers 
[ncubator. 



MADE IN TWO 
SIZES. 

120-130 Egg Superior Hot- 
water (rrcubator. 



124. MODERN INCUBATORS. 

provision is made so that the portion of lawn between 
the house and hennerv, nearly an acre, may be en- 
closed for this purpose. Digging underneath the 
trees will help the growth of the latter and make 
dust baths for the fowl. 

The hens selected for breeding purposes should 
be mated about ten days before eggs are w T anted for 
hatching. After the breeding season is over either 
kill the male bird or keep him by himself. Accord- 
ing to experiments, hens lay more eggs of a superior 
flavor and better keeping quality when kept away 



POULTRY. 



223 



from the male. Hens should be set in a secluded 
place and food and fresh water should be constantly 
within their reach. 




125. cypher's brooder — "b" style, for outdoors. 

In preparing a nest, first put in the bottom a 
thin sod, and over this a sheet of tar-paper. This 
will keep away lice. After this some chaff is all 
that is necessary. When only a few fowl are kept, 








126. PORTABLE HOVEK 



127. ADAPTABLE HOVER. 



nothing more is required than a hen to do the hatch- 
ing and caring for young chicks. 

When poultry constitute one of the special <le Poultry a 
partments of the farm, and are kept with a view incubator 
to making money, the incubator {see III. T24) has Necessar y- 



224 



RENNIE S AGRICULTURE. 



Advantage of 
Brooder. 



advantages over the hen. If a hundred eggs are 
ready for setting beginning of February, it might 
be difficult to get the necessary number of broodv 
hens at that season, whereas the incubator can be 
got ready in a few minutes, and the hatching done 
quite satisfactorily. Manufacturers furnish printed 
instructions with each machine. 

The first two weeks is the most critical period 
in rearing chicks. The self-regulating nursery 




128. HATCHING CHICKENS BY ELECTRICITY. 

Electrobator. — An Electrically Heated and Regulated In- 
cubator, designed expressly for poultry keeper's who require 
small hatching capacity. 

Economy in labor, convenience in location, no troublesome 
fumes or gasses, perfect distribution of heat in the egg 
chamber: simplicity and accuracy of regulation. The de- 
mand for these Incubators last season was quite unprece- 
dented and gave every satisfaction. They are not toys, but 
simple, economical, useful and satisfactory Hatching 
Machines. 



Breeds of 
Poultry. 



brooders or Hovers (see Ills. 125, 126, i2j) are 
particularly valuable for the purpose. For summer, 
a simple outdoor brooder (see III. 130) may be used. 
There are long lists of distinct breeds of poultry, 
each having its own special peculiarity and advan- 
tage. The following breeds are specially noted as 
egg producers: Andalusians, Minorcas, Spanish, 



POULTRY. 



225 



Leghorns, Houdans, Dominiques, and several of the 
Game breeds. The above breeds are of various 
forms and colors. 

By general purpose we understand it to be those 
breeds of fowl especially adapted for early maturing 
for table use and for winter laying. The oldest of 
these are the English Dorking. Later we have the 
Bar Rock (see III. 12 g), Buff Plymouth Rock, White 
Wyandotte (see III. 131), and Buff Wyandotte (see 
III. 133). The latter is very attractive, and likely 
to become popular. 

With proper management no branch of the 
poultry business will give larger and quicker returns 
than duck raising. The Pekin variety (see III. 134) 
is one of the best. The Aylesbury, a pure white 
duck, has many admirers. 

The Pekin is of a creamy white color. This 
duck will lay over one hundred eggs in a season. 

For breeding, put one drake with five or six 
ducks, first of December. Do not set the first ten 
or twelve eggs. A portion of the poultry house 
(see III. 28) is suitable for ducks, except that the 
roosts are not necessary. Instead, keep the floor 
of the pen covered with clean litter. Ducks require 
only about half the space that hens do. 

Ducks should have a portion of the lawn or 
paddock for a run for exercise the same as hens, but 
should be kept separated from other fowl by a woven 
wire fence. 

Duck eggs may be hatched under hens or with 
an incubator. The care and feed of ducklings is the 
same as described for chicks. 

Ducks should have all the fresh water they wish 
to drink, but the trough should be protected by 
uprights, so that they can only get their heads in 
between. It is not necessary that they should get 



General 
Purpose 
Breeds. 



Management 
of Ducks. 



Lawn for 
Exercise. 



Hens vs. 
Incubator. 



Water and 
Feed. 



226 



RENNIL S AGRICULTURE. 







\29. BARRED PLYMOUTH ROCKS. 



POULTRY. 



227 



into the water with their feet. They should be 
supplied with an abundance of green feed and grit. 

Grain fed to ducks, old or young, should be 
ground and mixed with skim milk. Aim to have as 
many early ducklings as possible, as these will com- 
mand the highest price. 

Ducks should be ready for market when between 
nine and ten weeks old, weighing at that time from 
four to five pounds each. 



Ground Grain 
and Skim Milk. 



Time to 
Market. 




130. OUTDOOR BROODER. 



In finishing ducklings for the market it is advis- 
able to give one feed each day of celery during the 
last week. This imparts a pleasant flavor to the 
flesh. 

The individual farmer must decide whether 
geese should also be kept. Under certain conditions 
these may be made profitable, and that would be as 
a specialty. However, it may be said that, for the 



How to Finish. 



Geese a 
Specialty. 



228 



RENNIK S AGRICULTURE. 











POULTRY. 



229 



best results, every department of the farm should 
be made a specialty. 

The favorite breeds of geese are the Touloose, a 
large gray, and the Emden, a large white. A young 
goose will lay about twenty eggs in a season, and an 
old goose from thirty to thirty-five. In mating, put 
two to three geese with one gander. 

Geese do not thrive in close confinement. They 
require the freedom of a large paddock. The eggs 



Breeds of 
Geese. 



Require 
Freedom. 




132. EVERYBODY RAISES GEESE. 



hatch in thirty days. The goslings require the same 
treatment and feed as ducklings. 

It is not necessary that they should have water Fresh Water, 
in which to swim, but they should at all times have 
a supply of fresh water to drink. 

It is advisable to rush the goslings and sell them 
as soon as well feathered, say when they are two and 
a half months old. They should then weigh from 
twelve to fifteen pounds each. This is the most 
profitable time to sell. 

The turkey is left to the last in this work. Of all The Turkey. 



When to Sell. 



230 



RJJNNIE S AGRICULTURE. 




133. BUFK WYANDOTTE. 



POULTRY. 



231 



domestic fowl the turkey is the most noble. The 
old gobbler is monarch of all he surveys. 

The Bronze variety is the largest and most Varieties, 
popular. The White Holland has also many 
admirers. 

A shelter should be provided for turkeys in 
winter, but it must be roomy, and the roosts from 
eight to ten feet high. 

Turkeys will not thrive when closely confined. Allow Freedom. 
They should have the freedom of the farm-yard 
during the winter. Turkey hens are not expected 
to lay until the end of March or the first of April. 
For use, feed a little grain, peas, barley and oats, 
mixed. In addition, give cut clover, moistened, 
and roots. 

In mating, put about a dozen hens with one Mating, 
gobbler. 

Young turkeys are rather difficult to raise at Young 
first, but with a warm coop or brooder, having a Tur eys ' 
small pen attached, there need be no loss. 

Turkeys hatched in June should weigh from when to sen. 
twenty to twenty-five pounds for Thanksgiving and 
Christmas. 



232 



KEXXIE S AGRICULTURE. 




CHAPTER XXX. 

Western Farming. 

Having set forth the method of cultivation and ™f st Canadian 
rotation of crops especially suitable for Ontario, 
the Maritime Provinces and British Columbia, a 
lesson on the Canadian West will now be quite in 
order. This immense territory is bounded on the 
south by the United States, on the north by the 
Peace River District, on the west by the Rocky 
Mountains, and on the east by the Hudson Bay. 




135. BREAKING PLOW. 

The vastness of this extent of territory can 
scarcely be comprehended. It is estimated that 
there is within its bounds sufficient land to give 
every inhabitant in the world at the present time 
(1916) half an acre each. 

Nearly the whole West is well adapted to grain 
growing, and especially spring wheat. 

As conditions here differ from the eastern 
Provinces, it is necessary to make some changes in 
the mode of cultivation and the style of implements 
most suitable for the country. 



234 Ronnie's agriculture. 

In starting on a prairie farm (in its natural con- 
dition) in the spring, the farmer should plow early 
three or four inches deep, using a breaking plow 
(see III. ijj) with two or three oxen or horses as the 
case may be. Roll soon after plowing, with a heavy 
roller, then harrow to conserve moisture. See III, 46. 
Sow a few acres with spring wheat soon as thoroughly 
prepared. This may be used for bread the first 
year. A few acres should also be sown with oats to 
feed the animals, not later than the end of May. 
Potatoes may be planted, and vegetables and swede 
turnip seed should be sown for winter use. 

It is important to keep the breaking plow going. 
On this depends the following year's crops. Con- 
tinue to roll and harrow after plowing to conserve 
moisture. The sod will rot much sooner. 

The portion that has not been cropped will 
require to be back-set in the autumn by plowing 
about one inch deeper then the first time; then 
thoroughly harrow. The portion that was cropped 
should be gang-plowed three or four inches deep, and 
harrowed. This will level the land and leave it in 
good shape for early seeding, which is important in 
this north country where the summer season is 
short. 

Wheat, oats and barley, in the order named, 
should be sown in spring soon after the snow is off 
the land and the frost is out one or two inches. 
Grain sown while the frost is in the subsoil will make 
more rapid growth on account of the moisture 
caused by the thawing out below. A new settler, 
commencing with limited capital, usually sows the 
grain by hand, but as soon as possible he should get 
a grain-drill, so that the grain may be planted at a 
uniform depth. This is especially necessary on the 
prairies, where the roots of the young plants are 
liable to get uncovered with the strong winds. 



WESTERN FARMING. 



235 




236 rexxie's agriculture. 

The most suitable grain drill to use, where it is 
necessary to sow before the frost is out of the 
ground, is the double disc drill. See III. 137. 

As soon as the wheat and oats are harvested the 
stubble land should be gang-plowed three or four 
inches deep, and harrowed with a lever harrow 
which provides for the teeth to be set at an angle 
(to prevent clogging). See III. 76. It is necessary 




137. double disc drill. 



to level all land in the fall which is intended for 
early seeding the following spring. 

While the autumn is a very busy season of the 
year, the fall plowing should not be neglected. With 
a three-furrow gang plow, one man and three or four 
horses (according to the nature of the soil) can plow 
from four to five acres per day. See III. 136. Rolling 
coulters are preferable to the ordinary straight 
coulters, as they are not liable to clog with the 
stubbles. 

Rolling down long stubbles before plowing pre- 
vents clogging. It might be stated in this connection 
that the more stubble there is left on the land to 



WESTERN FARMING. 237 

plow under the better, as this forms vegetable matter 
for plant food and conservation of moisture for the 
succeeding crops. The upper portion of the straw 
and chaff can be used for fodder. 

A farmer cannot afford to burn straw, as it is 
too valuable for the soil. 

After the first or second year, five pounds per 
acre of red clover seed should be sown with all the 
grain crops and plowed under with the stubble in 
autumn in order to keep up the fertility of the soil. 
It would be advisable to sow two or three acres with 
red clover the first year as an experiment. If the 
clover does not grow it may be for the want of the 
proper bacteria in the soil, and the following spring 
sufficient nitro-culture should be ordered from one 
of the agricultural colleges to treat a few pounds of 
red clover seed, and this sown according to directions 
received with the culture. Afterwards the inocu- 
lated surface soil can be used to treat other portions 
of the farm. Clover will not grow on low, wet land. 

A three years' rotation would be suitable for the 
West (after the soil has been treated with the clover 
culture), viz., two years, grain; the second grain 
crop being seeded with ten pounds red clover and 
four pounds orchard grass. This gives hay or 
pasture the third year. Early in the autumn plow 
the clover sod about four inches deep ; then roll and 
harrow thoroughly, so that the surface will be level 
and in good shape to sow with grain early the follow- 
ing spring. This system should keep up the fertility 
of the soil indefinitely. 

Not the least important matter in this western 
country is the planting of trees on the west and 
north of the home as a protection from the cold 
winds in winter. 



238 



kkxxie's agriculture. 




WESTERN FARM IXC. 



239 



Flax is destined to be an important crop in the F ia* Culture. 
West. It can be grown to perfection on newly- 
plowed prairie sod by the following method: Plow 
the sod early in spring about four inches deep ; then 
roll and harrow. In a few days cultivate with a 
spring-tooth cultivator or disc gang plough. See Ills. 
47 and ij8. Again harrow to make a fine tilth on 
the surface. 




139. pulling Flax. 



Flax should be sown the early part of May Seeding, 
either with a disc drill or a broadcast seeder (see 
III. 140), at the rate of half a bushel per acre. If 
sown on the surface with the latter, harrow with the 
lever spike-tooth harrow to cover the seed. 

The time to harvest flax is when it is quite ripe. Harvesting. 
It is not necessary to bind flax, but rather cut it 
with a self-rake reaper (see III. 80) and handle it 
loose. An average crop of flax seed is from 12 to 20 
bushels per acre, according to the condition of the 



240 



KENNIES AGRICULTURE. 



Advantages of 
Growing Flax. 



soil. There is a cash market at a price considerably 
more than wheat. 

Flax rots sod better than the common method 
of plowing in spring and back-setting in autumn, 
and it is not so liable to get frosted as spring wheat 
or oats. After the flax is harvested, all that is 
necessary is to cultivate or disc and harrow the land 
for wheat the following spring. 

If labor were more plentiful there would be as 
much money realized from the fibre as the seed, and 
this would make flax growing a very profitable 
business. 




140. BROADCAST SEEDER. 



Semi-Arid 
Lands. 



In the West there are dry districts which require 
special treatment in order to grow crops of grain 
successfully. Shallow cultivation must be adopted 
in order to keep all the vegetable matter on the 
surface so as to conserve and retain moisture in the 
soil. This is in accordance with the laws of nature. 
Earh- in the spring the land should be gang-plowed 
shallow, then rolled, and harrowed with a spike- 
tooth harrow. Presuming that the surface is now 
fine and mellow after this preparation, sow a mixture 
of oats and peas, one bushel of each. (Vetches may 



WESTERN FARMING. 241 

be used instead of peas.) Sow with a double disc 
seed drill. See III. 137. This style of a drill will 
press a crease in the soil and plant the grain on the 
firm soil below, which will start capillary action of 
the moisture in the subsoil so that the grain will 
get all the moisture necessary to start. 

In order to prevent evaporation of the moisture 
in the soil it will be necessary to loosen the surface 
soil every week or ten days with a lever spike-tooth 
harrow (see III. 76) to form a mulching until the 
crop shades the soil from the hot sun. Soon as the 
peas or vetches, as the case may be, are in bloom, 
plow shallow, turning the whole crop under the 
furrow by attaching a chain to the centre of beam 
of plow and the outer end of evener behind the 
furrow horse, forming a loop. It will be necessary 
to use a rolling coulter. After plowing, roll and 
harrow. 

This work should be done before harvest. After 
harvest, spread a few loads of farm yard manure 
per acre over the surface with a manure spreader. 
See III. jo. Leave this manure spread on the 
surface as a mulching and to prevent the soil from 
drifting. In the following spring sow wheat or oats 
early, soon as the frost is out of the ground about 
two inches, with a double disc drill. The idea is to 
plant the grain on the frozen subsoil so that it will 
get abundance of moisture. While the ground is 
thawing out, the manure on the surface will act as 
a mulching and prevent the moisture from escaping. 
It would be advisable to sow a few pounds of red 
clover per acre at the same time as sowing the grain. 
As there is not likely to be any of the proper bacteria 
in those arid soils, it will be necessary to have the 
red clover seed treated with nitro-culture, which 
can be had from any of the agricultural colleges with 



242 rEnnie's agriculture. 

full directions for using. By plowing this clover and 
long stubbles under in the autumn (shallow), using 
the chain and rolling coulter, rolling and harrowing 
as before described. 

By following the above directions and adopting 
a short and systematic rotation of crops, in which 
red clover forms a part, there should be no difficulty 
in keeping up the fertility of the soil. 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

System. 

Whether it be in Ontario or in the West, 
"system" is all-important on the farm as well as 
elsewhere. There should be a system on the farm 
the same as in the factory or in a business office. 
Systematized work saves time and labor. While it is 
necessary to rise early in the morning on the farm, 
it is equally necessary to quit work at six o'clock 
in the evening, so that there will be sufficient time 
for reading and enjoyment. Every farmer should 
subscribe for one or two agricultural journals, a 
religious paper for Sunday reading, and a daily news- 
paper, so that it will not be necessary for any 
member of the family to go to the store or tavern 
for the news of the day. Every member of the 
family should have an opportunity of reading for 
himself, or herself, and keep apace with the times. 
The present age demands knowledge in all things. 
Less manual labor and more thought would bring 
many farmers better results than they now enjoy. 

Every farmer should also keep an account of all Keep Accounts 
his receipts and disbursements, and at the end of 
each year take an inventory of all his stock, grain, 
implements, produce, etc., on hand at their current 
values. To this should be added the cash in the 
bank and on hand, as well as all accounts and notes 
receivable. This will show the total assets. From 
the total the full amount of all accounts and notes 
payable should be subtracted, and the result will 
show the farmer's present standing. It is also 
necessary to keep a record of the results produced 



244 rennie's agriculture. 

by each crop. Any crop for which the returns do 
not exceed the cost of production should be dis- 
continued if the cause of loss cannot be removed, 
and no animal should be kept unless it gives a profit 
over the cost of food and labor necessary for its 
maintenance. 

In short, a farmer, to attain the highest measure 
of success, must know how to produce the largest 
quantity of grain or other crops per acre, how to 
turn this to best account in the finished product of 
the farm, and how to market that product to the 
best advantage. 

But if the qualifications demanded are of a high 
order, the rewards are much more certain than in 
other lines. Farming is a more interesting, health- 
ful and independent calling than any other. While 
the percentage of failures in business life is large, the 
percentage of failure in agriculture is small. And 
the ideal of a happy home alike chosen by poet and 
artist is almost invariably found amid the green 
fields and wooded slopes of the open country. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Portrait of Author Frontispi 



cce 



no. page 

3. Brush Harrow 14 

4. Chain Harrow 15 

8. Cold Frame 22 

1. Four-horse Subsoiler 10 

2. Home— North View 13 

7. Hot-bed 19 

5. Lawn Mower 16 

6. Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Rennie, Sr., at Home 18 

— Crimson Rambler Rose 25 

14. Combined Harrow, Cultivator and Pulverizer 35 

10. Dibbler 28 

13. Drill Plow with Potato Digger Attachment 34 

11. Hill-Dropping Seed Drill 29 

— Irish Cobbler Potatoes 36 

12. Potato Digger and Picker 33 

9. Subsoil Plow 27 

Small Fruits. 

16. Downing Gooseberry 39 

17. Fay's Prolific Red Currant 40 

19. Kansas Black Cap Raspberry 42 

15. Melton Strawberry 37 

20. Niagara White Grape 43 

18. St. Regis Raspberry 41 

The Orchard. 

23. Clapp's Favorite Pear 51 

24. King Apples 53 

22. Lombard Plum 49 

21. Louis Phillippe Cherry 47 

25. Spraying an Orchard 54 

26. Spraying Potatoes for Blight 56 



246 illustration's. 

no. Buildings. page 

34. Basement Floor 68 

32. Basement of Barn 66 

30. Double Harpoon Hay Fork 63 

29. Elevation of Barn 62 

27. Elevation of Implement House 58 

39. Elevation of Piggery 74 

35. Elevation of Sheep House 70 

38. Feed Rack 7i 

28. Ground Plan of Implement House 60 

40. Ground Plan of Piggery 76 

37. Ground Plan of Sheep House 72 

31. Hay Carriers and Slings 65 

33. Stationary Stanchion 68 

36. Swinging Stanchion 71 

Draining. 

44. Connecting Tiles in Drain 82 

42. Crummer 80 

43. Draining 81 

41. Draining Spade 80 

— Early Soy Beans 83 

— Japanese Clematis 78 

Implements. 

45. A Bean Crop in Western Ontario 86 

46. Land Roller 87 

51. Adjustable Spike-tooth Harrow 93 

50. An Up-to-date Manure Spreader at Work 92 

49. Plow with Revolving Coulter 91 

53. Set of Ribbers 95 

47. Spring Tooth Cultivator 89 

48. Stiff Tooth Cultivator 90 

^2. Wheelbarow Grass Seeder 94 

54. Diagram of Farm 102 

55. Two-furrow Gang Plow 104 

56. Grain Drill 107 

59. Oats in Long Shocks 114 

58. Self-binder at Work in an Oat Field 112 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 247 

NO. PAGE 
57. Tolton Pea Harvester 108 

66. Breed Weeder 127 

61. Cultivator Frame with Ribbers 118 

— Earliest Six Weeks' Potatoes 133 

— Haying at the O.A.C. Farm 130 

65. Horse Drill for Sowing Field Root Seeds 125 

63. Horse Hoe or Scuffler 120 

60. Modern Threshing Machine 116 

64. Storing Roots in Pit 121 

62. Turnip Hoe 119 

Corn Growing. 

69. Corn Cultivator 138 

72. Corn Cutting and Silo 140 

73. Corn Harvester 141 

70. Corn Hoe 139 

71. Corn Platform 139 

67. Hand Corn Planter 136 

74. Round Stave Silo 143 

68. Scuffling at the Ontario Experimental Farm 137 

— Yellow Dent Corn 147 

Harvesting. 

75. A Field of Marquis Wheat 151 

— - A Heavy Crop of Golden Vine Peas 162 

78. Hay Cap 156 

83. Hay Loader 163 

77. Hay Tedder 153 

82. Horse Rake 161 

76. Lever Harrow 152 

81. Mower with Clover Seed Attachment 160 

79. Mowing Machine 158 

80. Self-Rake Reaper 159 

Alfaefa. 

84. Alfalfa Inoculated 165 

— Root of Alfalfa Plant 167 



248 ILLUSTRATIONS. 

no. Fencing. pagf 

88. Bracing and Stretching Fence 175 

$7. Hog. Cattle and Horse Fence 175 

86. Horse and Cattle Fence 174 

89. London Fence Machine 176 

85. Wire Stretcher 173 

90. Woven Wire Gate 176 

Cattle and Horses. 

92. A Young Holstein Bull 179 

91. Dehorning Cattle 178 

93. Guernsey Cow — "Murne Cowair" 181 

94. The Black and White Cattle 183 

97. Ayrshire Cow 188 

96. Holstein-Friesian Cow — "Finderne Pride'* 187 

98. Jersey Cow — "Oxford Vixen" 192 

— Sorghum 191 

95. Two White-faced Beauties 186 

104. Aberdeen Angus Cow 198 

103. Aberdeen Angus Heifer — 1st Prize 197 

105. A Porterhouse Roast 199 

102. Hereford Cow 196 

100. Cow— Shorthorn "Durham" 194 

101. Save the Calves 195 

99. Shorthorn Heifer— "Nonpareil Bud II." 193 

106. Clydesdale Horse 201 

Sheep axd Swine. 

108. Cotswold 203 

110. Border Leicester 205 

— First Prize Ram Lambs 210 

109. Lincoln 204 

115. Hampshire Lambs 209 

111. Oxford Downs 206 

112. Shropshire 207 

113. Southdown 208 

114. Southdown Shearling Ewes 209 

— Oxford Down Shearling Ewes 212 

120. Portable Pig House 215 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 249 

NO. PA GE 

— True Dwarf Essex Rape 2H> 

119. Typical Bacon Hog (Front View) 213 

117. Typical Bacon Hog (Side View) 211 

POULTRV. 

127. Adaptable Hover 223 

129. Barred Plymouth Rocks 226 

123. Bronze Turkey 221 

133. Buff Wyandotte 230 

125. Cypher's Brooder— "B" Style 223 

132. Everybody Raises Geese 229 

121. Feeding Time— White Leghorns 217 

128. Hatching Chickens by Electricity 224 

124. Modern Incubators 222 

130. Outdoor Brooder 227 

134. Pekin Ducks 232 

126. Portable Hover 223 

122. Waiting for Meal Time 219 

131. White Wyandottes 228 

Western Farming 

135. Breaking Plow 233 

140. Broadcast Seeder 24!) 

138. Disc Gang Plow 238 

137. Double Disc Drill. 236 

139. Pulling Flax 230 

136. Three-furrow Gang Plow 235 



GENERAL INDEX 



Beautifying the Country home. page 

Cold Frames — How to Prepare Soil 22 

Decide the Location for Orchard, Garden and 

Lawn 9 

Hedges and Wind Breaks 11 

Flower Beds 17 

Trimming Evergreen Hedges 12 

1 1 ardy Climbers 24 

How to Make a Hot-bed 20 

Rockery — Planting Ferns and Perennial Flowers.... 23 

Selection of Hardy Flowering Shrubs 17 

Summer Flowering Bulbs 24 

Flower Beds 23 

Varieties of Flowers and Vegetables. 21 

The Vegetable Garden. 

How to Prepare the Soil 26 

Vegetables for a Private Garden 28 

Small Fruits. 

Cultivation for Fruits 38 

How to Plant Grapes 42 

Strawberries 37 

The Orchard. 

Commercial Apple Growing 50 

Draining an Orchard 45 

How to Graft 52 

Planting an Orchard 45 

Pruning Apple Trees 52 

Spraying Fruit Trees 52 



INDIvX 251 

Farm Implements and Buildings. page 

Buildings, etc., to Harmonize 77 

Construction of Sheep House 72 

Farm Barn 59 

1 mplemenl 1 1 ouse 57 

Location and Dimensions of Building 59 

Painting Farm Buildings 77 

Plan of Basement 69 

Plan of Building 71 

Style of Building 76 

Ventilation 73 

Underdraining. 

Construction of Drain 80 

Depth of Drains 79 

Grading - 81 

Laying Tiles 82 

Size of Drain 79 

Where Drains are Xeeded 79 

Cultivation of the Soil. 

Summer Fallow 87 

How to Restore and Maintain Fertility 84 

Cultivating and Seeding. 

Destroying Weeds and Weed Seeds 95 

Increasing the Fertility of the Soil 94 

.Manuring 95 

Plowing under Green Crop 91 

Preparing for Rotation 89 

Restoring Exhausted Land 95 

Sowing 94 

Destroying Weeds. 

How to Increase Fertility and Eradicate Weeds.... 99 

Quality of Seed Grain 98 

Sowing Clover and Timothy 99 

Spring Cultivation Q 8 

Weeds and Weed Seeds ^7 



252 INDEX 

Rotation of Crops. PAGE 

A Four Years' Course 100 

Depth to Plant Seeds 106 

Dividing Farm into Sections 100 

Fall Cultivation Best Time to Clean the Land 103 

Manuring in Winter 105 

Plowing in Summer 103 

Preparation for Field Roots and Other Hoe Crops 106 

Grain Growing. 

Elements of Fertility 109 

Fall Wheat 109 

1 larvesting Peas 107 

How to "Shock" Grain 113 

Improvements in Harvesting Methods Ill 

Prevent Heating 110 

Quantity to Sow 110 

Suhsoiling Clay Land 110 

Threshing Peas 109 

Time to Sow Fall Wheat 110 

When to Cut Wheat Ill 

Field Root Crops. 

Making Drills, and Sowing Field Roots 117 

Preparation of the Soil for Swede Turnips 124 

Quantity of Seed per Acre 126 

Spring Cultivation for Hoe Crops 115 

Storing and Ventilating Field Roots 122 

When and How to Harvest Field Roots 121 

Exhibition Roots. 

How to Grow Roots for Exhibition 129 

Potato Growing. 

Cultivation and Drilling for Potatoes 131 

Digging, Pitting and Storing Potatoes 132 

How to Cut Potato Sets and Time to Plant 131 

Rape for Fodder. 

Cultivation and Feeding of Rape 134 



INDEX 253 

Corn for Silage. page 

Construction of Silos 144 

Preparing the Land for Corn 135 

Sowing and Cultivating Corn 136 

When and How to Harvest Corn 140 

Fall Cultivation. 

Fall Cultivation after the Hoe Crops 148 

Cultivation for Spring Crops. 

Clover a Fertilizer, Suhsoiler and Flesh Former.... 155 

Growing Clover for Seed 156 

Seeding and Caring of Pasture Lands 150 

When and How to Sow 150 

Alfalfa Clover. 

Alfalfa— Its Desirable Quality 163 

Alfalfa Meal 166 

Fertilization of Alfalfa 166 

Inoculation of Alfalfa Seed 166 

Pasture and Soiling Crops. 

Additional Soiling Crops 169 

Permanent Pasture 168 

Three Year Rotation. 

Three Years' Rotation of Crops 170 

Fencing. 

Convenient Portable Fence 172 

Farm and Garden Gates 176 

Fencing 172 

Permanent Woven Wire Fences 174 

Portable Woven Wire Fences 172 

Style and Quality of Fence 174 

Care and Feeding of Live Stock. 

Autumn Feeding 178 

Commercial Foods 184 

Dehorning Cattle 179 

Fconomic Feeding 177 



2?4 INDEX 

Care and Feeding of Live Stock — Con. page 

Exercising Animals 180 

How and When to Feed 183 

Preparation of Fly Oil 185 

Ration for Milch Cow-.... 183 

Shelter in Summer 185 

Winter Feed 180 

Breeds of Cattle. 

Fancy Butter Cow 189 

Increasing Production 189 

Popular Dairy Cows 189 

Selecting a Milch Cow 189 

Cattle for Beef. 

Beef Breeds 193 

Buying Steers for Winter Feeding 199 

Care of Calves 199 

Horses. 

Care and Feeding of Horses 202 

1 [orses on the Farm. 200 

Summer Ration 202 

Sheep. 

Dipping Sheep 208 

Feeding of Ewes 207 

Feeding Sheep *... 208 

Special Care for Long Wool 203 

Various Breeds of Sheep 203 

Winter Care 208 

Winter Feeding 209 

Swine. 

Brood Sow 214 

Feed for Young Pigs 214 

Feeding Swine 212 

Summer Food for Swine 215 

Winter Food and Exercise 215 



INDEX 255 

Poultry. page 

Care of Hens when Laying 220 

Feed and Water Trough 218 

General Purpose Breeds 225 

Hens vs. Incubator 225 

How to Feed 220 

Management of Ducks 225 

Plan of Poultry House 217 

Water and Feed 225 

When to Mate 222 

When to Sell 231 

Winter Eggs 220 

Western Farming. 

Flax Culture 239 

Semi-Arid Lands 240 

The Canadian West 233 

System. 

Keep Accounts 243 

System 243 



s 



s 

501 



Rennie, William 

Agriculture in Canada 



Biological 
^ Medical 




PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 




1 



