tt 





^ t \i£ 



Book._illkBJ_ 
fapyiightF '^'^ 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSm 



The "Original Book" 




Choice Recipes 



AS COMPILED BY 



CLARA G. MITCHELL '' >fvyo^ , \ 
OF DENVER,^COLORADO 




FOURTH EDITION 



DENVER, COLORADO 

THE SMITH-BROOKS PRINTING COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 



iliT^'CvvJ^^ 



\^^t 



\G 




\'^ 



Entered according to the Act of Congress in the year 1897 by 

MRS. JOHN C. MITCHELL 

in the oflBce of the Librarian of Congress, at Washingion 



First Edition, 1897 
Second Edition, 1901 
Third Edition, 1915 
Fourth Edition, 19:6 

f rsnsferrerf from 
■^Wnght Office 



MAR 30 75 



PREFACE 



In editing this little book the object is to keep this 
collection of recipes together for personal use and also for 
the use of those who are interested in home cooking. These 
recipes are not entirely new or original, but have been col- 
lected from relatives and friends during many years. 
They have been tried and proven good. 

That this little volume will be of some assistance to 
my friends and well-wishers, who it is trusted may be 
lenient to its shortcomings, is the wish of 

C. G. M. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Pages 

Beverages 175-179 

Bread 131-141 

Buffet Luncheon for Seventy- five People 225 

Cake . . . . : ^ 93-108 

Canapes and Fish Cocktails 7-8 

Candy 205-207 

Chafing Dish Recipes 43 

Chafing Dish Supper for Forty People 227 

Cheese Dishes 85-87 

Desserts 113-126 

Entrees 35-38 

Fish 25-30 

Fritters 151 

Helpful Hints 219 

Menus 219-220 

Miscellaneous 47-63 

Pickles 183-186 

Pies 145-147 

Preserves 191-196 

Puddings 155-163 

Pudding Sauces 169-170 

Recipes for the Tropics 229-232 

Salad 69-73 

Salad Dressing 79-80 

Sauces 199-201 

Soup 13-20 

Time Tables 233-235 

Useful Remedies 211-214 



Modern Cooking Methods (John M. Connelly) 237-240 



CANAPES AND FISH COCKTAILS 

(For Dinners and Luncheons) 



MITCHELL SURPRISE (V\NAPE 

2 cans Anti-pasto, marked \ cup East Indian clint- 
No. 33 or Moon-face ney root pickled, cut in 

brand; small pieces, 

Breast 4-pound chicken, ^ cup celery, 
4 small cooked beets 3 hard boiled eggs, 

(size of a silver dollar), I teaspoonful paprika, 

I teaspoonful white pepper, 
Salt to taste. 

Cut all in pieces, size of small dice ; also the Avhites 
of the eggs. The yolks are used on top of each canape. 
Mix all together with mayonnaise dressing, and serve on 
round pieces of buttered toast, cut the size of a claret 
glass. Sprinkle top with yolks of eggs put through 
sieve; dash of paprika on top of each canap^. 

MITCHELL CRABMEAT CANAPE 

Toast slices of bread, cut in roinid pieces with small 
biscuit cutter two and a half inches ; butter while- hot ; 
spread buttered circles with sardine paste, seasoned with 
lemon and paprika. 

Place slices of ripe tomatoes that have been mari- 
nated for an hour on the sardine toast; then, last of all. 
the crabmeat flakes, mixed with well-seasoned mayon- 
naise, on the tomato, with a sprinkling of paprika on top. 

EGG CANAPE 

Half a hard boiled egg, stuffed with caviar and 
pimiento chopped fine, mixed with sour maj^onnaise. 

Garnish with beets cut in small cubes around the 
egg. The beets must be well-seasoned before cutting. 
Serve with hot buttered toast, one for each person. 

— 7 — 



CANAPES AND FISH COCKTAILS 



C^ANAPE OF SARDINE 



^ pound can of boneless 

sardines, or 
2 40-cent cans sardine 

paste, 
1 teaspoonful chopped 

chives, 



2 teaspoonfuls chopped 

green peppers, 
2 teaspoonfuls chopped 

celery, 
2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice, 
^ teaspoonful paprika, 
2 pinches salt. 



Mix thoroughly; spread on soft buttered toast strips 
three inches long and two inches wide. 

Canap^ of anchovy paste made in the same way is 
delicious. 



OYSTER COCKTAIL 



1^ pints smallest oysters, 

Sauce : 

I pint catsup, 



1 tablespoonful horseradish, 
^ teaspoonful paprika, 
I teaspoonful salt, 



1 tablespoonful Worcester- Juice of one lemon, 
shire sauce, 8 drops tabasco. 

Put oysters in sherbet glasses, pour the sauce over 
them, but don't mix. Set in ice box until time to serve. 
AVill serve eight people. 



FISTT COCKTAIL 

Cra))meat and sweetbread cocktail made like oyster 
cocktail, with sauce. 

— 8 — 



— 9 — 



— 10 — 



— 11 



— 12 — 



SOUP 

Stock for any Clear Soup 



(^ONSOMME OR BOITILLON 



A knuckle of veal. 


1 turnip, 


A shin of beef, 


3 blades of mace, 


1 onion, 


4 sprigs of parsley, 


8 quarts cold water, 


4 cloves. 


1 carrot, 


1 teaspoonful peppercorns. 


3 bay leaves. 


1 stick of cinnamon. 



Let it come to a boil and then simmer on the back of 
the stove all day or until reduced to half the quantity, 
then strain and put away over night. AVhen ready to use, 
season with a level tablespoonful of salt, and more pepper 
if desired^ This quantity makes a rich jelly and will serve 
twelve people. 

White stock can be made of chicken or veal 



HOW TO CLEAR SOUP 

Whites of 2 eggs, slightly ^ cup of cold water, 
beaten, 

Boil the soup and pour over the eggs and water, boil, 
and strain through a jelly bag. If not sufficiently clear, 
strain second time. A little sherry wine adds to the flavor 
of the soup. If not rich enough in color, add a teaspoon- 
ful of Kitchen Bouquet. 

Julienne soup is made by adding vegetables, cut in 
different shapes, to the above. 

Consomme Royale is made by serving small cubes of 
baked custard in consomm^. 



13 — 



SOUP 



(TTSTAED FOR CONSOMME ROYALE 

2 eggs, And a tablespoonful of 

2 tablespoonfiils of milk. chopped parsley if de- 

j teaspoonful salt, sired. 

Beat eggs -with a spoon, add luilk and salt; cook in a 
slow oven, in a square, shallow dripping pan, placed in a 
larger pan of boiling water. Bake until firm enough to 
cut into fancy shapes. When ready to serve put into 
consomme. 



TOMATO SOUP WITH MACARONI 

1 quart of stock, ^ cup Minute tapioca. 

1 can of tomatoes, 

Season with ^ teaspoonful salt and Avhite pepper and 
thicken with | cup tapioca, soaked in 1 cup water. Cook 
with tomatoes and stock. 

Cook macaroni in a little salted water until tender, 
but not too soft, cut in pieces half-inch long, place tAvo 
tablespoonfuls of macaroni in each plate before serving. 
Will serve eight people. 



CREAM TOMATO SOUP 

1 quart or 1 can of l^ntter the size of an egg, 

tomatoes, 1 scant teaspoonful soda, 

1 quart of water, -} scant teaspoonful salt, 

1 quart of milk, [ teaspoonful white pepper. 
1 tablespoonful of flour, 

Boil the tomatoes and water twenty minutes, stir in 
the soda thoroughly, add the milk, salt and pepper, and 
thicken with the butter and flour stirred togetlier to a 
cream. ]\Iash through a sieve and sei've with croutons. 
Will serve ten people. 

— H — 



SOUP 



ASPARAGUS PUREE 



bunches of fresh or one 
large can of Batavia 
asparagus, with enough 
cold water to coA^er, 
pint stock, 



1 pint milk. 

Butter the size of an egg, 
1 tablespoonful of flour, 
^ teaspoonful of salt, 
^ teaspoonful of white 
pepper. 



Cut the tips off the asparagus an inch long. Boil the 
stalks until tender, mash through a colander. Add the 
stock, milk and seasoning, and thicken with the butter 
and flour stirred together to a cream. Just before serving 
put through a fine soup strainer. Boil the tips in a little 
salted water until tender and add to the soup. Additional 
richness is given by adding a tablespoonful of whipped 
cream to each plate. This amount will serve eight people. 

Puree of spinach is made in the same way, using two 
pounds of fresh spinach for this quantity. 



PUREE OF CORN 



1 pint cream, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

^ teaspoonful salt, 

J teaspoonful white pepper. 



1 can of corn, 

3 cans of water (measured 

in the same can). 
Butter size of an egg, 
3 pints of milk, 

Boil the corn until tender, mash through a colander, 
add the milk and cream and thicken with the butter and 
flour stirred together to a cream, put through a fine 
strainer and serve. AVill serve eight people. Croutons or 
small cubes of bread fried in butter are very nice with it. 

Puree of peas, beans, cauliflower, artichokes or sal- 
sify, also celery, can be made in the same way. 



— 15 



SOUP 



CHESTNUT PUREE 

1 quart large chestnuts, Butter the size of an egg, 
shell and scald in boiling 1 teaspoonful flour, 
water, J teaspoonful salt, 

1 pint white stock, ] teaspoonful pepper. 

1^- pints of milk, 

Heat the stock and milk and thicken with the butter 
and flour stirred together to a cream, add the pepper and 
salt. Boil and peel the chestnuts, rub through a sieve and 
add to the soup. An extra cup of chestnuts may be peeled 
and boiled and served chopped in the soup, or it may be 
served with croutons. Will serve eight people. 

]\IUSHROO]\I PUREE 

1 quart of white stock, 1 pound of fresh mush- 

1 quart of milk, rooms, or 

^ pint cream, 1 large can of French musli- 

3" tablespoonfuls flour, rooms, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Peel and chop fresh mushrooms fine. Boil 15 minutes 
in the milk, then add stock and cream and thicken with 
butter and flour stirred together until smooth. Just 
before serving add the yolks beaten light. Additional 
richness is given by adding a tablespoonful of whipped 
cream to each plate. AVill serve eight people. 

OYSTER SOUP 

1 quart oysters, 2 quarts milk, 

Butter the size of a large -J- teaspoonful salt, scant. 

Heat tlui oysters and mill< separately, put the butter 
and salt in the milk just before serving. Put the milk 
and oysters together in the tureen, milk first and then 
the oysters. Will serve eight people. 

— 16 — 



SOUP 

OYSTER BISQUE 

1 pint water, 1 sprig parsley, 

1 pint milk, 1 slice onion, 

1 pint cream, 1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 quart oysters, with the Pinch cayenne pepper, 

liquor, clash of nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
Yolks of two eggs, beaten, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
1 bay leaf. Chop the oysters. 

1 piece celery. 

Put liquor and seasoning together and simmer on the 
back of the stove half an hour. Mash the oysters through 
a colander and thicken with the flour and butter stirred 
together until smooth, then add the hot milk and cream 
and let simmer ten minutes. Add the eggs and cook one 
minute, but don't let it boil. Will serve eight people. 
Can be made with clams instead of oysters. 

ONION SOUP 

1 quart shredded un- 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 

cooked onions (cut | pound butter, 

lengthwise), Yolks of two eggs beaten, 

1 quart white stock, 1 quart milk. 

Cover onions with water, parboil and drain. Boil in 
stock fifteen minutes, then add other ingredients and 
thicken with butter and flour stirred together. Add the 
yolks of eggs when ready to serve. Will serve eight 
people. 

CLEAR ONION SOUP 

2 quarts of clear stock, 6 squares of toast 
6 small boiling onions, (2 inches). 

1 cup of grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

Parboil onions in salted water until tender. Add one 
cup of onion water to stock. Salt and pepper to taste. 
In each plate place first toast then onion, pour over very 
hot stock, and lastly, a tablespoonful of cheese on top of 
each onion. Will serve six people. 

— 17 — 



SOUP 



IMOCK TURTLE SOUP 

2 quarts rich broAvn stock, 2 hard boiled eggs, cut in 

H cups chopped veal, small pieces, 

chicken or beef, 1 wine glass sherry, 

1 small lemon, Pepper and salt to taste. 

Heat the stock and if it is not dark colored enough 
add a teaspoonful of Kitchen Bouquet, thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls flour stirred smooth in a little cold Avatei'. 
Peel the lemon and cut in slices one-fourth inch thick, cut 
the slices in small pieces and put in the tureen with the 
meat and eggs, pour the soup over them and add the wine 
just before serving. Will serve eight people. 



GAME OR TURKEY SOUP 

The remains of a game or turkey dinner may be used 
for soup in the following waj^ : Cover the bones and meat 
with cold water, add a small head of celery, cut small, 
and one small onion sliced. Boil three hours, strain and 
thicken with one tablespoonful of flour and one table- 
spoonful of butter stirred together to a cream, add salt 
and serve with a cupful of boiled rice. A bay leaf and a 
few sprigs of parsley may be added if liked. 



NOODLES 

Beat two eggs together, mak-e n paste with enough 
flour to roll out like cookies, one-lialf teaspoonful of salt, 
let it dry an liour, then cut into tliiii slices. l)oil 1(Mi min- 
utes in soup. Can Ix' l<<'pt Cor weeks. 

AVliip))ed ci'eam and croutons iii;i1<(' a nice .-iddilion 
lo any of llic l^)is(jues or Pur(M'S. 

— 18 — 



SOUP 



ALMOND BISQUE 



1 quart of wliite soup 

stock, 
1 quart of milk, 

1 pint of cream, 

2 tablespooiifuls of flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
Yolks of 2 eggs, 



1 tablesj^oonful almond ex- 
tract (Dr. Price's), 

^ teaspoonful of salt, 

] teaspoonful of white 
pepper. 

IJ cupfuls of blanched and 
shredded almonds cut 



lengthwise. 
Put the stock, milk, and half of the cream together in 
a double boiler ; when hot thicken with the flour and 
butter stirred together until smooth ; add the pepper, salt, 
almond flavoring, and half of the almonds; cook until 
slightly thickened and smooth. Just before serving add 
the yolks of the eggs beaten light. AVhip the remainder 
of the cream and put a spoonful and a few nuts on the 
top of each plate. A¥ill serve eight people. 



CREOLE SOUP 



1 small stick cinnamon, 
1 tablesjDoonful curry 

powder, 
1 tablespoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
A little cayenne pepper. 



3 pints stock, 

1 quart can tomatoes, 

1 cup boiled rice, 

1 large onion, sliced, 

1 stalk celery, 

1 bay leaf, 

6 whole cloves, 

1 small piece mace, 

Cook tomatoes, onion, celery and seasoning with the 
stock for half an hour, strain and rub the tomato pulp 
through a fine sieve. Return the mixture to the stove and 
add flour, butter and curry powder rubbed together to a 
cream. Cook until it thickens, strain again, add the rice 
and cook ten minutes, when it will be ready to serve. 

— 19 — 



SOUP 



CHICKEN OKRA NO. 1 
1 (luart of chicken stock, 1 cup of chicken cut in 
1 (|nart of tomatoes, dice (white meat). 

1 (|uart can of Dunl)ai*'s J teaspoonfnl of East Indian 

Okra, Curry powder, 

h teaspoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful white pepper. 

Boil stock, tomatoes and curry powder half an hour 
over slow fire. Strain through a seive and add the canned 
okra just as it is, to the strained stock, and cook half an 
hour, then add diced chicken. In serving the soup place 
a tablespoonful of pre^'iously boiled rice in each plate and 
pour the soup over it. Will serve eight people. 

CHICKEN OKEA NO. 2 

1 chicken, 4 quarts hot water, 

2 quarts sliced okra, ^ pound salt pork, 
1 quart tomatoes, 1 onion. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces, put in a kettle with 
the pork and onion (sliced) and fry half done, add the 
water and let it cook slowly until the chicken is almost 
done, then put in the okra and tomatoes and cook until 
all are well done. Add salt and pepper to taste and a tea- 
spoonful of sassafras powder. Serve with a tablespoonful 
of boiled rice in each plate. 

GUMBO SOUP 

(a la Creole) 
1 heaping tablespoonful 1 red pepper, parsley and 

lard, salt, 

1 small piece of ham, cut 1 tablespoonful of flour, 

up, 1 can okra, 

1 large onion, cut fine, 1 teaspoonful chili pepper, 

^ can tomatoes. 
Cover all with boiling Avater, simmer slowly, when 
nearly done add one cup of crabs, shrimps or chicken. 
One tablespoonful of boiled rice in oach soup plate. 

— 20 — 



SOUP 



VELVET SOUP 



quart white stock, 

quart milk, 

pint cream, 

small onion, sliced, 

stalk celery, cut fine, 



1 small stick of cinnamon, 
6 whole cloves, 
1 bay leaf, 

-J cup sago or tapioca, cooked 
in the stock. 



1 small piece of mace. 

Boil the onion, celer,y and spices together in one pint 
of water, strain and add to the stock. Thicken with three 
tablespoonfuls of flour and two of butter stirred together 
until smooth, and add the hot milk and cream ; pepper 
and salt to taste. Just before serving add the yolks of 
two eggs beaten light. Will serve eight people. 



21 — 



22 — 



— 23 — 



— 24 — 



FISH 

FISH TIME ALE (HALIBUT) 

1^ cups boiled halibut, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 

J cup of cream, 1 teaspoonful parsley, 
2 tablespoonfuls bread minced, 

crumbs, i teaspoonful salt, 

^ teaspoonful cayenne i teaspoonful white pepper, 

pepper, 3 egg^s, beaten separately. 

Put the cream in porcelain-lined kettle and add the 
bread crumbs, salt and pepper. When boiling pour over 
the well beaten yolks of eggs and add the lemon juice, 
parsley and the fish picked up in medium sized pieces. 
Lastly add the whites of the eggs, beaten very light, and 
mix gently through the fish. Put in a well buttered mould 
and steam two or three hours without letting water stop 
boiling. Serve with cream sauce or Hollandaise sauce. 
Will serve four people. Very nice made of salmon. 



CREAM SAUCE FOR TIMBALE 

1 pint cream. Yolks of two eggs, well 

1 teaspoonful butter, beaten, 

1 teaspoonful flour. 

Thicken the cream with the flour and butter creamed 
together and add the yolks of the eggs just before serving. 



25 — 



FISH 



LOBSTER TERRAPIN 

5 pounds lobster or 5 large Butter size of a large egg, 

cups of lobster meat, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

1 quart uiilk, or | teaspoonful cayenne 

1 pint milk and 1 pint pepper. 

cream, 1 sherry glass Madeira or 

2 hard boiled eggs, sherry wine. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Cut the lobster in medium sized pieces, boil the milk 
and thicken with the butter and flour stirred to a cream, 
add the eggs, cut in small pieces, then the lobster, lastlj' 
the wine just before serving. This will serve eight per- 
sons. Chicken, mushrooms or frogs' legs are delicious 
prepared in this way. 

FISH AU GRATIN 

2 pounds whitefish or 1 tablespoonful flour, 

trout, 1 cup bread crumbs, 

1 pint milk, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, ^ teaspoonful Avhite pepper. 

Heat the milk and thicken with the butter and flour 
stirred together to a cream and add the salt and pepper. 
Pick up the flsh in small pieces and pour the sauce over it. 
Butter individual dishes or one large one, put in the fish 
and cover with the bread crumbs, Avith small pieces of 
butter on top. Bake in a hot oven in a j^an of water. 
Will serve eight people. 

FRIED (OYSTERS 

Drain your oysters first, put a little salt and pepper 
in the bread crumbs. Egg beaten lightly. 

Dip in bread crumbs first, tlien in egg. tlien in bread 
crumbs again, fry in deep lard, in wire l)asket. For 40 
New York Counts take fi\e eggs, five coffee-cups of fine 
bread crumbs. 

— 2G — 



FISH 



SALMON TURBOT 



3 cups boiled salmon, cut 

fine, 
2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 



^ teaspoonful thyme or 

summer savory, 
I small onion. 
Salt and pepper to taste, 
1 pint milk. 



Put the onion in the milk and bring to a boil, thicken 
with the butter and flour stirred together to a cream, re- 
move the onion and add the thyme, salt and pepper. But- 
ter a deep dish, put in the fish and pour the sauce over it, 
cover the top with buttered bread or cracker crumbs and 
set in the oven in a pan of water to brown. Will serve 
six people. 



HALIBUT MORNAIX 



3 large slices of boiled 

halibut, 
5 truffles, 

1 cup Parmesan cheese, 
1 cup button mushrooms. 



pint milk, 

tablespoonful butter, 
tablespoonfuls flour, 
saltspoonful salt, 
saltspoonful of pepper. 



Heat the milk, stir in the butter and flour mixed to a 
cream, then salt and pepper, beat until smooth. 

Butter a platter, place fish in it first, then the white 
sauce with mushrooms and truffles in it over the fish. 
then lastly sprinkle the cheese over all, with pieces of 
butter now and then on top. Place in the oven over a 
dripping pan containing water, so as not to crack the 
platter. 



— 27 



FISH 



CODFISH AND CREAM 

2 cups shredded salt cod- 3 tablespoonfuls flour, 
fish, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

3 cups milk (tea cups), butter. 
Yolks of 2 eggs, 

Cover shredded codfish with cold water in iron spider ; 
let it come to a boil for five minutes ; then pour off water ; 
and put on cold water to blanch the codfish ; drain that 
water off; add milk, butter and flour (stirred until 
smooth) to the codfish; cook until creamy. When ready 
to serve take from the stove; add the beaten yolks of 
eggs to make it light and pretty color. 



CODFISH SOUFFLE 

Add the well beaten whites of the eggs to the above 
mixture and bake to a golden brown. 



CODFISH BALLS 

3 cups codfish, picked fine, 1 scant teaspoonful butter, 

4 cups potatoes, cut small. Pepper and salt if necessary. 
2 eggs, beaten lightly. 

Wash the fish and put in small kettle with the pota- 
toes and coATr with cold water; l)()il until the potatoes arc 
well done, drain off the water and mash until the potatoes 
and fish are well mixed, add the butter and pepper and 
lastly the eggs. Flour the hands well and form the mix- 
ture into balls and fry in deep lard. For those who like 
it a tablespoonful ol* Worcestershire sauce greatly im- 
proves codfish balls. 

— 28 — 



— 29 — 



— 30 — 



31 



32 — 



ENTREES 



CHICKEN A LA KING 

1 cold boiled chicken, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 
J green pepper, seeded 1 pint of milk, 

and shredded, Yolks of 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, A little nutmeg, pepper 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter, and salt. 

Put the shredded pepper in the milk and cook slowly 
for twenty minutes. Make roux with the flour and butter, 
pour the hot milk and peppers over it gradually; then stir 
until smooth ; add seasoning. Cut the chicken in thin 
strips, one inch long, and stir it into the sauce ; add sherry 
and serve hot on buttered toast. 



CHICKEN SUPREIME 

Use only the breasts of chicken, smother in oven ; fry 
ham in skillet, remove and make rich milk gravj^ Place 
each breast of chicken on a piece of ham and pour gravy 
over both. 



]\IACARONI FOR HONEYCOMB TBIBALE 

1 package large macaroni, ^ tablespoon ful salt. 

Cover with boiling water, cook 25 minutes, then drain 
and cover with cold water to blanch. Cut the macaroni in 
pieces three-fourths of an inch long, line a three-pint yel- 
low boAvl with butter one-fourth inch thick, then stick 
pieces of macaroni upright all over the bottom and sides 
of the bowl, beginning at the center of the bottom and 
work around. (A wooden toothpick is the best thing to 
use for handling the macaroni after it is cut.) Proceed 
with the filling as in Chicken Timbale. 

(2) — 33 — 



ENTREES 

CHICKEN TIMBALE 

Quenelle or Filling 

1 chicken, ^ cup butter, 

4 tablespoonfuls bread ^ teaspoonful salt, 

crumbs, soaked with | teaspoonful pepper, 

cream before using, Yolks of five eggs, 

1 cup cream, ^ teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Chop very fine and smooth in a chopping bovrl — it 
must be like a paste — then add other ingredients and stir 
all together thoroughly. Line a three-pint yellow bowl 
with more butter, one-fourth inch thick, then put in 
quenelle and steam three hours. Serve with cream sauce. 
Will serve ten people. 



SAVEETBEEAD MOUSSE 

H cups of cooked sweet- 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
breads put through meat .juice, 

grinder, 1 teaspoonfnl of minced 
^ cup of cream, parsley, 

3 eggs, beaten separately, j teaspoonful of salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread- 1 teaspoonful each of cay- 
crumbs, cnne and white pej^per. 

Heat cream, breadcrumbs, salt, and pepper together 

in porcelain sauce-pan. AVIien boiling, pour over the Avell- 

beaten yolks of eggs and add lemon juice, parsley, and 

sweetbreads. Beat the whites of the eggs very dry and 

mix lightly into the other ingredients. Steam two hours 

in wcll-bnilcrcd mould. Serve willi ci-cnm or Hcdlaiidaise 

sancc. 

— 34 — 



ENTREES 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

7 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1^ large coffee-cups of 
3^ tablespoonfuls butter, chopped chicken, 

1 teaspoonful each finely ^ teaspoonful salt, 

chopped onion and -] teaspoonful pepper, 

parsle3% 1 quart milk. 

First, put butter in spider, then heat ; partly cook 
onion in butter, then stir in flour thoroughly and cook 
about ten minutes, stirring all the time ; lastly add season- 
ing and milk by degrees ; cook until smooth — the con- 
sistency of thick cream gravy, then add the chicken. 
Don't stop stirring while putting in the milk. Put away 
until cold, then mould in two and one-half inch lengths. 
Dip first in bread crumbs, then in egg, then in bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep lard. Good made of veal, beef or 
fish. Served with mushroom or tomato sauce. Will make 
fourteen croquettes. 

Meat cutlets are made by forming the croquettes in 
your hands in the shape of cutlets, putting a piece of 
large miacaroni in the end for the bone and covering with 
a fancy paper frill. Dip in bread crumbs and egg and 
bread crumbs again as in croquettes. 

FRICANDEAU 

3 J pounds veal or beef, ^ teaspoonful thyme, 

chopped fine, 4 soda crackers, powdered 

f pound fresh pork, fine, 

chopped fine, 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoonful salt, -J teaspoonful chopped 

1 teaspoonful pepper, onion. 

Mix well together with the hand to make it adhere, 
mould in the form of a loaf, rub over with melted butter 
and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Bake two and one-half 
hours. Serve with tomato sauce. Can be served hot or 
cold. 

— 35 — 



ENTREES 

ASPIC JELLY 
Make a rich chicken and veal or beef and veal stock, 
as given in the first chapter, then melt 11/2 even table- 
spoonfuls of Knox's gelatine in one tablespoonful of cold 
Avater for ten minutes. If the stock is like jelly, this is 
enough for two quarts. When heated, pour over the gela- 
tine and let it come to a boil. Put some in a mould in a 
pan of chopped ice ; when partly cooled drop in vegetables 
cut in fancy shapes, celery or chicken cut in pieces. To 
be served with celery and lettuce mayonnaise. 

SWEETBREADS AND OYSTERS 

3 dozen select oysters, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, 

4 large sweetbreads, 3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
4 tablespoonfuls cream, 

Blanch and trim the sweetbreads and cut them in 
dice. Remove the hard muscle from the oysters, strain the 
liquor into a saucepan and season with mace and pepper 
and salt ; add the sweetbreads and the flour and butter 
creamed together. When the sweetbreads are done add 
the oysters and cook until plump, or about five minutes; 
take from the stove and add the cream. Serve yevy hot in 
a deep dish, or small fancy dishes. A tablespoonful of 
sherry may be added if liked. 

SALMI OF DUCK 

2 large cold roast ducks 1 teaspoonful KIIcIkmi 

or 4 teal, • Bouiiud. 

1 quart clear stock, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

1 can mushrooms, j tonspoonful popper. 

18 stoned olives. 1 tablesjioonful l)utter. 

'2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Cut the duck' in pieces and cook a few minutes in the 
stock with tlic mushrooms and olives, thicken Avith tlie 
butter and Hour ci'eamed together, add Kitchen Bouquet, 
pepper and salt. Put in a wine glass of sherry just before 
serving. Will serve ten people. 

— 36 — 



ENTREES 



CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM SALPICON 

7 

Take the breast of a ^ teaspoonful salt, 

chicken, i teaspoonful white pepper 
1 can French mtiishrooms, (scant), 

1 pint rich milk, j teaspoonful paprika, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Yolk of 1 egg:. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, 

First melt butter in iron pan ; then put in flour very 
slowly, so it makes a smooth paste ; then add milk grad- 
ually; don't stop stirring until all the roux is thoroughly 
cooked with the milk ; then put in seasoning. 

Cut the cold chicken in pieces one-half inch long, 
mushrooms in halves; stir all together in the cream sauce; 
cook until hot ; lastly put in beaten yolk of egg. 

Delicious served on toast, small patty cases or in 
Vol au Vent cases. 



MACARONI A LA GARBARINO 

Cook sufficient macaroni to make a good dish, in 
strong broth, either beef or chicken, making it absorb all 
the broth. Take half a cupful of dried mushrooms, soak 
all day in cold water, then let them stew in same water 
about an hour. Season the macaroni with a little salt and 
pepper while cooking unless the broth has been well sea- 
soned before. Put a layer of macaroni in the bottom of 
a dish or platter, add a few mushrooms and a little of 
their liquor, sprinkle with grated cheese ; and so proceed 
until the dish is full. Put plenty of grated cheese on top. 
The cheese used may be either Parmesan or Edam. Set in 
the oven until the dish is very hot. Serve at once. This 
makes a rich, substantial dish which Mr. Garbarino served 
as a principal course in a dinner. 

— 37 — 



— 38 — 



39 



— 40 — 



— 41 — 



— 42 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 



Several of these suggestions given below can be made 
in a chafing dish by heating the butter first, then putting 
in the flour, slowly stirring until smooth, then add cream 
and eggs beaten together, then wine, if desired. This is 
the same for lobster, mushrooms and oysters. Sweet- 
breads, chicken and frogs' legs must be boiled tender 
before using them in this way. Any two of these recipes 
can be combined and make a nice dish, except lobster, 
which is always eaten alone. Salmi of duck is also good 
made in a chafing dish. 



OYSTER POULETTE 

1 quart oysters, J tablespconful flour, 

1 pint cream, Yolks of two eggs, 

1 large tablespoonful J teaspoonful salt, 

butter, I teaspoonful white pepper. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters and let them come 
to a boil, add the flour and butter stirred to a cream, and 
lastly the yolks of eggs and cream beaten together; cook 
five minutes and serve on toast. Will serve six people. 



SCALLOPS POULETTE 

Cream as j^ou would for oysters, with or without wine. 
Serve on toast. 



WELSH RAREBIT 

1 pound fresh cream ^ teaspoonful cayenne pep- 

cheese, per, 

1 teaspoonful mustard, | cup beer, 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

Put cheese, cut in thin slices, in chafing dish with 
seasoning; when melted add beer and serve on toast or 
crackers. 

. —43 — 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 



LOBSTER NEWBURG 
5 pounds lobster or 5 large 4 yolks of eggs, 

cups of lobster meat, H pints cream, 

4 tablespoonfuls butter, 4 tablespoonfuls sherry. 

Cut the lobster in good sized x^ieces and pour over it 
the wine, melted butter, pepper and salt ; let it cook for 
five minutes. Add the cream to the well beaten yolks of 
eggs, then the lobster; cook tAvo minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Will serve eight people. 

To prevent curdling, a teaspoonful each of melted 
butter and flour, creamed, may be added and cooked 
smooth before putting in the cream and eggs. 

RAREBIT 

(For Twelve People )- 

2^ pounds cheese (put ^ teaspoonful paprika, 

through grinder), J teaspoonful salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 wineglass cream. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 

Warm enough beer to moisten the cheese ; first heat 
the chafing dish, put in the butter and melt, then add 
cheese, seasoning and flour. Mix the warmed beer in 
thoroughly and add the cream last. Serve on dry toast. 

GOLDEN BUCK 
(For Four People) 
1 pound New York Cream 1 heaping teaspoonful of 

cheese, grated, mustard, 

1 large cube of butter, I pint of beer or milk, 

1 egg, Dash of cayenne pepper. 

Mix thoroughly the egg, mustard, and beer, in a boAvl. 
Put butter in the chafing dish, and when melted add the 
cheese. When partially dissohed poui- in the mixture of 
beer, etc., and stir constantly until it thickens, adding 
salt and cayenne pepper while cooking. Serve on salted 
Avaf<M's witli a sprinkling of Paprik'a. 

— 44 — 



45 



46 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



EAST INDIAN CHICKEN CURRY 

1 good sized chicken, 1 quart can tomatoes, 

1| pounds fresh pork, 1 teacupful flour, 

1 vegetable dish sliced 3 teaspoonfuls curry powder 

onions, mixed well through flour, 

2 quarts milk. 
Put the onions in a granite kettle with a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, cover tight and place on the 
back of the stove, cut the pork in small slices, partlj^ fry 
in butter and add to the onions. Cut the chicken in small 
pieces and fry in the same way and add to the pork and 
onions ; the onions should by this time be almost entirely 
melted. Add the tomatoes, a quart of milk and the flour 
and curry powder stirred smooth with a little milk, let 
it simmer seven or eight hours, scrape from the bottom 
and stir frequently to prevent burning. Add more milk 
occasionally as it thickens until the two quarts have been 
used. Serve with border of boiled rice. 



FORMULA FOR EAST INDIAN CURRY POWDER 
4 ounces tumeric, 4 ounces black pepper, 

1 ounce cummin seed, J ounce cardamon seed, 

4 ounces coriander, 3 ounces fenugreek, 

1 ounce ground rice, ^ ounce cayenne pepper, 

2 ounces ginger. 

Keep in tightly corked bottle. 

BOILED RICE 

(East Indian Fashion) 
Have a large kettle of water boiling fast, throw in a 
handful of rice for each person and boil ten minutes, salt 
and boil ten or fifteen minutes longer or until soft, keep 
it boiling constantly to prevent the grains from sticking 
together or to the bottom of the kettle. When the rice is 
done drain through a colander in warm place for a few 
minutes, then serve as a vegetable or garnish. 

— 47 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



RAGOUT OF KIDNEY 

1 beef kidney, 1 tablespoonful minced 

1 pint milk, parsley, 

H tablespoonfuls flour, 1 te^i spoonful vinegar, 

1 large tablespoonful J teaspoonful salt, 

butter, ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

Wash the kidney and cover with salt water and let it 
stand for an hour, drain and boil until tender. Heat the 
milk and thicken with the flour and butter stirred to- 
gether to a cream, add salt and pepper, parslej' and put in 
vinegar just before serving. Cut the kidney in small 
pieces, pour the sauce over it and serve hot. 



STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

For six green peppers use : 

1 cup uncooked rice, -J cup bread cruinbs, 

6 ripe tomatoes. Butter size of small egg 

1 cup chicken, veal, or (melted), 
boiled ham chopped fine, 1 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls of finely ^ teaspoonful pepper, 
chopped onion, 

Make a slit in the side of the peppers, stem end, and 
scoop out the inside, put in salt and water for half an 
hour. Cook onion and tomatoes together before putting 
in the rice. Boil the rice in salted water until soft and 
mix Avith the other ingredients. Stuff the peppers with 
the mixture and bake twenty-five minutes in a dripping 
pan with a little water. Tomatoes may be done in tlie 
same way, leaving out the rice. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS NO. 2 

Green i)eppers stuffed with chicken quenelle are ex- 
cellent. Chopped truffles and mushrooms may be added 
to the quenelle. 

— 48 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

Cook one head of cauliflower in salted water until 
tender, pick apart and put in a buttered baking dish. 
Pour white sauce over it and cover the top with bread 
crumbs and small pieces of butter and brown in the oven. 
Grated cheese may also be sprinkled over the top if liked. 



SPINACH SOUFFLE 

2 cups spinach (3 pounds), 1 tablespoonful flour, 
4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, ^ teaspoonful salt, 
J teaspoonful pepper. 

Cook the spinach tender, chop very fine and mash 
through a sieve, add vinegar, butter, pepper and salt. 
Beat the yolks and add the flour to them and mix with 
the spinach, cook until the yolks are set, stirring con- 
stantly, and put aside to cool. AVhen cold add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, butter small timbale 
moulds and half fill with the mixture, bake ten or twelve 
minutes in a quick oven. The moulds should be placed in 
a dripping pan with a little water to bake. 



SOUTHERN -SWEET POTATOES 

6 sweet potatoes (boiled), 2 cups white coft'ee A, or 
Butter size of an egg, brown sugar, 

1 cup water. 

Slice the potatoes lengthwise and put in a buttered 
baking dish. Make a syrup of the sugar, water and butter 
and pour it over the potatoes. Sprinkle sugar and small 
pieces of butter over the top and bake in slow oven an 
hour and a half or until the potatoes have absorbed the 
syrup. 

— 49 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



SOUTHERN SWEET POTATOES WITH APPLES 

6 sweet potatoes (boiled), 1 cup water, 

6 small round apples, Butter the size of an egg. 

2 cups brown sugar, 

Wash and core the apples and cut them in one-fourth 
inch rings. Slice the potatoes across, one-fourth inch 
thick. Butter a pudding dish and put first a layer of 
apples and then of potatoes until the dish is full. Make 
a syrup of the sugar, water and butter and pour it over 
the potatoes and apples. Sprinkle the top with brown 
sugar and dot it Avith small pieces of butter. Bake in a 
slow oven until tlie apples are soft and the syrup is 
absorbed. 



SAA'EET POTATO CROQUETTES 

4 large sweet potatoes, Pinch of nutmeg, 

2 tablespoonfuls rich Pepper and salt to taste, 

cream, J cup blanched almonds. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Boil, peel and mash the potatoes, add cream, butter 
and seasoning and beat until very smooth. When cold 
add the almonds cut in lengthAvise pieces. Form in 
pyramid or croquette shape, roll in beaten egg, then in 
bread crumbs and fry in deep lard. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

6 medium sized potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
1 heaping tablespoonful ] teas])()onful salt, 

butter, 1 ])int of milk or cream. 

Boil potatoes until almost done, peel and mince me- 
dium fine; make cream sauce of cream or milk with butter 
and flour stirred together, put in while cream is hot, boil 
until thick and smooth, ponr ovoi* potatoes and heat again. 

— 50 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

2 cups white beans, 1 tablespoonful molasses, 

1 pound salt pork, sliced 1 teaspoonful salt, 

thin. Baking soda size of a pea. 

Soak the beans over night. In the morning add the 
soda and salt and boil until they are thoroughly done and 
Avill mash readily between the finger and thumb. Add the 
molasses and put in a pan or earthen bean dish with just 
enough of the water they were boiled in to cover. Cut 
the pork in squares and arrange on top of the beans, bake 
until the pork is brown and crisp. 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

1 chicken, 3 pounds, 1 tablespoonful Knox's 

2 sticks celery, gelatine, soaked in ^ cup 
J bunch parsley, of cold water, 

2 hard boiled eggs. 
Salt to taste. 
Cut the chicken in pieces as for a fricassee and boil 
in salted water with celery and parsley. When done re- 
move the meat from the bones and chop medium fine. Boil 
the broth doAvn to a pint, add the gelatine and strain. 
Dip an oblong tin or bread tin in cold water, cover the 
bottom with the hard boiled eggs cut in rings. When the 
stock is nearly cold pour a little over the eggs, put in the 
chicken and the rest of the stock. When perfectly cold 
cut in slices or serve the mould entire. 



CREAMED TURKEY 

Cut cold turkey in dice ; make a white sauce ; add 
turkey and serve very hot. Garnish with pieces of toast. 

TURKEY HASH 

Mince cold turkey put in sauce-pan with a little milk, 

flour and butter, and stir until heated thoroughly and 

slightly thickened. 

— 51 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



RICE AND MEAT RAGOUT 

Take any cold meat. Cut in small thin pieces, take 
gravy left from day before, and if you have none, make 
gravy with water, butter, flour, salt and pepper. Boil 
one cup of rice tender in salt water. Butter a baking 
dish, place in it, first, rice, then meat and gravy alter- 
natel}^ until dish is full and rice on top, sprinkle over a 
few bread crumbs with pieces of butter around, brown 
in oven. Good for a luncheon dish. 

CALF'S LIVER IN SHELLS 

Calf's liver cooked until tender, chopped fine, sea- 
soned with cayenne pepper, salt, Worcestershire sauce, 
mushroom catsup, one tablespoonful Madeira or sherry 
wine, thickened with a little butter, malted, and flour 
mixed together. Serve in individual shells. 

CHARPENTIER EGGS 

Poach as many eggs as j)P()]^1p to l)e served, in the 
French manner, not too luii'd. Take individual shells, 
dust with bread erinubs and cheese, then put in egg eai'e- 
fully, cover with a white sauce and sprinkh^ over Parmesan 
cheese. Bake in a hot oven to l)rown the cheese. 

OMELET 

For three people take 3 eggs, ])eat separately, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk to the yolks and a little salt. Have 
a saucepan hot, put in butter size of a walnut ; when ready 
to cook stir in whites of eggs and pour into the pan ; cook 
quickly, moving the saucepan about and raising the edges 
with a broad knife to prevent burning. Fold the omelet 
over in the middle and slip onto a hot platter before it is 
quite set. Its own heat will cook it enough. Can have 
rum poured over it and lighted if desired. 

— 52 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



GOLDENROD EGGS 

Six eggs boiled half an hour, make a white sauce 
with : 

1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, Salt to taste. 

Cut the whites of the eggs in small pieces and add to 
the white sauce. Toast six slices of bread, butter them, 
and pour the white sauce over. Put the yolks of the eggs 
through the ricer over the top and serve very hot. 



ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

Pour off some of the gravy after beef has cooked 
within twenty minutes of being done, and pour around 
the beef. 

1 cup milk, 1 cup flour, 
Pinch of salt, 2 eggs. 

Add one cup of milk gradually to one cup of flour, 
beating continually that it may be smooth ; add two eggs, 
beaten very light, and a pinch of salt; mix well and pour 
to the depth of one-half inch around the beef. Bake 
twenty minutes in hot oven, basting occasionally^ with 
the stock or drippings. Cut in squares and serve around 
the meat. 

SPAGHETTI CREOLE 

Cook ^ package of spaghetti in salted water until 
Avell done. Drain, anl let cold water run over it to blanch 
it. Make sauce as follows : Fry in tablespoonful of lard. 

2 large onions and 1 large green pepper chopped fine. 
(Do not brown too much.) Add i can of tomatoes and 
cook together ten minutes, slowly, with sauce-pan covered ; 
add the cold spaghetti and cook half an hour. Season 
with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

— 53 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



MINCED LAMB 

Chop lamb very fine ; pour over cold water, let it 
boil for half an hour; season with pepper and salt and 
thicken with butter and flour stirred together; color with 
kitchen bouquet if too light in color. All cold meats 
prepared in same way. 

CHICKEN CASSEROLE 

2 chickens, leave out backs, 2 onions, 

necks, etc., removing 1 turnip, small, 

larger bones, 1 stalk celery and parsley. 

2 carrots. 

Cut up and fry vegetables, except celery and parsley, 
in butter; when partially cooked remove from stove. 
Partially fry chicken in hot pan ; remove chicken and 
make a thick gravy of flour and water; season well with 
salt and pepper. Place chicken and vegetables in cas- 
serole with gravy in alternate layers, adding cup of celery 
and parsley to the vegetables ; then put casserole in oven 
in pan of water and cook slowly for four hours. Add 
water if it gets too solid. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

Boil one-half liead of cabbage, cut medium fine, in 
skillet; when tender and transparent, fill baking dish 
with one layer of the cabbage and one layer of cracker 
eruml)s; butter, pepper and salt in each layer; cover with 
milk and bake in oven. 

TTOAV TO COOK SWEETBREADS 

Soak the swoetl)i"eads in cohl salted water two hours, 
drain and rinse in clear cold water. Boil in salted Avater 
until tender and l)lanch by immersing in cold water imme- 
diately after taking them from the lioiling water. Remove 
all skin find tonprh pnrts l)efore using. 

— 54 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



HAM OMELET 

eggs, whites and yolks 1 heaping teaspoonful of 
beaten separately, flour, 



f cup of milk. Butter size of a walnut, 

1 cup of boiled ham. Pinch of salt, 

chopped, 

Make a smooth paste of the butter and flour and a 
little of the milk ; add the remainder of the milk gradualh^ 
then the beaten yolks ; and lastly, the well-beaten whites 
of the eggs. Pour the mixture in a hot, well-greased 
skillet and bake in oven ten minutes. 



CORNED BEEF HASH 

Soak a piece of corned beef over night in cold water. 
Next morning pour off that water and put boiling water 
over it and cook until tender (but not so it falls apart). 
Boil potatoes until they are soft enough to pierce with 
a fork. Peel and chop potatoes and meat separately — 
equal amount. Mix together with pepper. It is generally 
salty enough, but if not, season to your taste. Have iron 
spider hot, then put in a little water and plenty of butter, 
then your meat and potatoes. Cook until well-heated and 
seasoned. 

If you wish to have some of the hash crisp and brown, 
do a little at a time and let it cook with less water. We 
like ours moist, so put more water in when we first put 
it in the spider. 

The brisket is the best cut of corned beef, as there 
are streaks of fat through the meat, which makes the 
hash more juicy. 

Roast beef hash is made in the same way. 

— 55 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



DELICIOUS FRIED APPLES 

I cup sugar, | pound ])utter, 

8 inediuin sized apples. 

Pare, core, and slice the apples; put butter in hot 
iron skillet; then stir in sugar sloAvly until melted; put 
apples in one layer, fry until light brown; watch carefully 
or they will burn ; tliis amount will make one skillet full ; 
repeat, if desired. 



ROAST HAM 

Thoroughly wash and rinse a twelve to fourteen 
pound ham; soak over night in milk and Abater. Cover 
with clear, cold Avater, with two teacups of vinegar, six 
bay leaves, three pieces of whole mace, twelve whole cloves ; 
boil until almost tender; cut off the heavy skin, some of 
the fat, and the dark edges; put in roasting pan; pour 
over one cup of cooking shen^y until all is absorbed ; 
stick top or fat part of ham with whole cloves, and 
sprinkle with brown sugar and bread crumbs; put in the 
oven, with some water and a cup of vinegar. Baste often, 
and bake until a pretty l)rown. 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Cut a four or five-pound chicken into convenient 
sized pieces; wash and put in a kettle, and cover with 
boiling water, to Avhich one teaspoonful of salt and one 
sliced onion have been added; boil until the chicken is 
tender. When done, remove the chicken and tiiicken the 
broth with flour and butter, creamed together; put the 
chicken ])ack into the gravy, and just before serving, add 
the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve Avith dum])lings 
or a border of boiled rice around the i)latt(^r, if preferred. 

— 56 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



DUMPLINGS FOR CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Mix together one pint of flour, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, and one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder; 
stir in sufficient sweet milk to mix to a soft dough; roll 
out and cut into biscuits. Drop these into the boiling 
gi'avy, cover closely, and cook without raising the lid for 
fifteen minutes, if small ; twenty, if large. 



CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR TURKEY 

Peel and blanch one quart of chestnuts ; boil them 
in stock or salted water until tender; put through 
rieer or pound smooth while still hot. Reserve one-half 
to put in the sauce that goes with the turkey. Mix the 
remainder with the turkey dressing. 



SANDWICHES 

To Serve with Afternoon Tea or Bridge Parties 



CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICHES 

1 cup cold boiled chicken 1 cup celery. 

(breast). 

Chop together very fine. Mix Avith one heaping table- 
spoonful of rich mayonnaise dressing; season highly w4th 
paprika ; butter thin slices of bread and spread with the 
salad mixture. Will serve eight people. 

— 57 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



SALAD EGG SANDWICH 

1 hard boiled egg, 1 tal)lespoonful chow-chow 

1^ tablespoonfuls celery, pickle. 

Chop all together very fine, and spread on thin slices 
of bread and butter. "Will serve four people. 



CHEESE AND TOMATO SANDWICH 

Mash one pat of Neufchatel cheese through ricer, 
add a little salt and paprika, a tablespoonful of cream, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of grated onion, mix together until 
smooth enough to spread. Cut slices of bread with a 
round sandwich cutter; the upper piece has a hole in 
center like a doughnut; spread the bread with butter; 
then cheese mixture, and place on that a slice of red 
tomato ; then the upper piece of bread, with the center 
taken out. 



SARDINE SANDWICHES 

1 can sardine paste, Pinch salt, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice, Dash papper. 
I teaspoonful paprika, 

Mash all together to a very smooth paste and spread 
between thin slices of bread and butter; cut in different 
shapes with fancy cutters. 

Thin pieces of bread, three inches long, toasted and 
buttered and sprinkled with a mixture of granulated 
sugar and ground cinnamon, are very tasty. 

— 58 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



MINCED HAM SANDWICHES 

1 cup cold boiled ham, 4 pieces of chow-chow pickle. 

Put through a meat grinder and season with paprika ; 
spread on thin slices of bread, well buttered. This 
amount will serve four people. 



BROWN AND AVHITE BREAD SANDWICHES NO. 1 

Cut Boston brown bread and white sandwich bread 
in rounds, with a biscuit cutter ; butter and put together. 



BROWN AND WHITE BREAD SANDWICHES NO. 2 

Slice brown and white bread one-half inch thick ; 
butter and put four slices together, alternately brown 
and white ; then slice down like layer cake, in thin slices. 
Usually served with fish course. 



SANDWICHES 

One ten-cent loaf of sandwich bread will make forty 
(three-cornered) sandwiches. 

Two slices of bread, after trimming off crusts, cut 
diagonally across, will make number of sandwiches as 
above. 

One can forty-cent size Russian caviar will make 
twenty-two small sandwiches as above. 

One can twenty-five-cent size of sardine paste will 
make eighteen sandwiches the size above. 

— 59 — 



MISCELLANEOUS 



(TIRING A SHOULDER OF PORK 

1 gallon water, 1 pint sugar, 

2 Joints coarse salt. l oiinee saltpeter. 

Select the shoulder of a young pig five or six pounds 
in weight, have the shoulderblade taken out, so it Avill slice 
easily, put it in the brine for twenty-four hours before 
eouiniencing to use it, then if it should get too salty, add 
fresh 'water. 



RISSOLES 

Cut any kind of cold meat in small pieces, season and 
mix Avith a little good gravy until it is well moistened. 
Roll some puif paste into oval pieces, lay a large spoonful 
of meat on one end, double it over, press the edges 
together and scallop them, brush the paste over with 
beaten .yolk of egg, sprinkle vermicelli upon it and fry 
them. They have the appearance of hedgehogs. 



— GO — 



61 — 



— 62 — 



63 



— 64 



SALAD 



MACEDOINE SALAD 

2 hard boiled eggs, 3 medium sized potatoes, 
9 long red radishes, 1 tablespoonful chopped 
IJ bunches spring onions, parsley, 

3 small beets, 2 stalks celery. 

Boil beets and potatoes, when cold cut in small pieces 
or fancy shapes if desired; slice onions, radishes and 
celery; add parsley. Serve with mayonnaise dressing, 
garnish with lettuce and the eggs put through a ricer. 
This amount will serve ten people. Put in beets the last 
thing, as thej- discolor the salad. 



TOMATO AND SWEETBREADS 

6 tomatoes, 2 pairs sweetbreads. 

Boil sweetbreads tender in salted water — try with a 
fork ; blanch in cold water, remove all the skin and tough 
parts, cut in pieces large as a dime. Soak sweetbreads 
two hours in cold water and salt before boiling. Peel 
and scoop out tomatoes, fill with the sweetbreads mixed 
with mayonnaise dressing, put a spoonful mayonnaise on 
each tomato and serve on lettuce. 



SALAD EGGS 

8 hard boiled eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls mayon- 

naise, made quite tart 
with lemon juice. 

Cut eggs lengthwise, take out the yolks and mash 
with a fork very fine, mix with the mayonnaise and fill 
the whites of eggs. Serve on lettuce. 

(3) —65 — 



SALAD 

SALAD EGGS NO. 2 

For six hard-boiled eggs iiuish the yolks light then 
mix in : 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 teaspoonful of mustard, 

1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 
J teaspoonful of salt. Onion to taste, 

^ teaspoonful of pepper, Sprinkle paprika on top. 

Cut eggs in half, lengthwise, and fill the whites with 
the above mixture ; serve on lettuce. 

CREAM CHICKEN SALAD 

2 large chickens, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 

1 box Knox's gelatine, 1 quart cream (whipping), 

i^ pieces celery. 
Boil chicken and celery tender ; take chicken stock 
and reduce to half; dissolve gelatine in a little cold water, 
put in stock; when half cold put in chicken cut in pieces 
(as large as for ordinar}^ chicken salad) ; then whip cream 
stiff and put in the jelly, stirring thoroughly; then put in 
individual timbale moulds on ice ; garnish with celery 
salad and lettuce. Half will serve twelve moulds. 

CUCUMBER SALAD 

To serve with fish. Cut cucumber lengthAvise in four 
l^iecos, then slice and mix with mayonnaise. 

POTATO SALAD 

6 large potatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped 

5 spring onions or 3 tea- parsley, 

spoonfuls chopped onion, 2 hard boiled eggs. 

Boil potatoes, cut in dice; slice onion; mix all to- 
gether with mayonnaise dressing; garnish with radishes 
and hard boiled eggs put through a ricer. Will serve four 

people. 

— 66 — 



SALAD 



FRUIT SALAD 

4 grapefruits, 1 cup Maraschino cherries, 

^ cup walnut meats, cut 1 cup pineapple, cut in 
small, small pieces. 

Serve with French dressing on lettuce leaves. AYill 
serve eight people. 



PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Fresh or canned pineapple sliced and served on let- 
tuce with French dressins". 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

4 grapefruits, seeded, J cup pecans, 

1 cup celery, cut in small 1 cup grapes, 
pieces. 

Served with a spoonful of mayonnaise on each plate. 
AVill serve eight people. 



PEAR SALAD 

Take canned Bartlett pears (the}^ come in halves), 
chill them thoroughly, place one piece of pear on crisp 
lettuce leaves, with strips of pimiento (sweet red pepper) 
placed across the top. Serve with French dressing and 
a small amount of chili sauce, mixed, poured over each 
pear. 



GREEN GAGE SALAD 

Green gages served whole on leaf lettuce, with French 
dressing poured over them. 

— 67 — 



SALAD 



TKUNE SALAD 

Cook twelve large California prunes ; remove the 
stones ; cream two cakes of Neuf chatel cheese and add 
one-half dozen shelled, chopped walnuts ; stuff the 
prunes with cheese and nuts; serve on lettuce leaf, with 
French dressing. Will serve six people. 

FRUIT SALAD 

4 large oranges, 2 bananas, 

4 slices pineapple, -J pint (liberal) mayonnaise 

3 apples (red and fine), dressing, 

1 pound red and white J pint whipping cream 

cherries, (whip cream stiff). 

Put mayonnaise dressing in bowt; then add whipped 
cream, slowly beating it ; then pour over fruit the last 
minute. 

To Prepare 

Peel oranges, divide in sections, then skin each sec- 
tion and cut in two or three pieces, large as a quarter; 
cut pineapple in pieces; stone cherries; cut apples in 
dice, and the bananas the last ten minutes ])efore serving, 
as they turn dark ; pour over dressing the last minute, 
otherwise the dressing gets thin. Serve fourteen people. 

ARTICHOKE FONDS SALAD 

1 can artichokes fonds, 1 cup blanched almonds 

3 cups celery (cut in small (cut in small pieces), 
pieces), 
Mix celery and nuts together, with mayonnaise dress- 
ing; place artichoke fonds on leaf of lettuce and fill with 
the salad mixture. Asparagus tips can be used as filling 
for artichoke fonds. 

To ])i'epare artichoke fonds or loniatoes for salad: 
Two liours before mixing tlie salad, cover with a mix- 
ture of r, vinegar. ;■; olive oil, salt and pepper to taste, or 
(iiiiil oil if ])i*('l'('n'ed. 



SALAD 



PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD 

Serve each person a slice of pineapple, with seasoned 
Neufchatel cheese put through a ricer on top ; pour 
French dressing over. 



TOMATO WITH CRAB MEAT 

Peel and take out the center of a tomato. Keep cool 
until ready to serve. Fill with fresh crab meat mixed 
with mayonnaise, with a spoonful of dressing over each 
tomato, with a dash of cayenne pepper over the top. To 
be served as a first course of a luncheon or dinner. 



69 



70 



— 71 — 



— 72 — 



SALAD DRESSING 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

4 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 

1 pint of olive oil, ^ teaspoonful of white pep- 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar, or per or ten drops of ta- 

part lemon juice if pre- basco sauce. 

ferred, 

Beat eggs with Dover egg beater ten minutes, then 
pour in oil very slowly; when partially thick, pour in 
vinegar and oil alternately, beating all the time ; then 
salt and pepper the last thing. Will serve ten people or 
is sufficient for three pints of chicken salad. 



FRENCH 

3 tablespoonfuls of oil, | teaspoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful of vinegar, ^ teaspoonful pepper, 
1 clove of garlic. 

Mix salt and pepper together in a spoon, then oil, 
stirred in well ; then vinegar ; put clove of garlic in lettuce 
when mixing. This amount will serve one person gen- 
erously. 



ASPARAGUS 

1 bottle Fl-ench mustard, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

1 pint oil, ^ teaspoonful pepper, 

2 teaspoonfuls onion 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
(chopped), 

Take mustard, stir in oil slowly as for mayonnaise, 
then add vinegar, salt, pepper and onion. Set away cov- 
ered for four hours before using. Serve Avith cold boiled 
asparagus. 

— 73 — 



SALAD DRESSING 



BOILED MAYONNAISE OR COLD SLAAV DRESSING 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoonfiil sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 cup vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful flour, ' ^ cup water. 

Put butter and flour in small saucepan over teakettle, 
when melted pour in vinegar, water, seasoning and lastly 
eggs, beaten light; cook until thick and smooth like cream. 
While hot pour over cabbage, or it may be used for 
chicken or potato salad if preferred to mayonnaise. 



RUSSIAN DRESSING 

1 cup rich mayonnaise 1 sweet red pimiento sliced 

dressing, in thin strips. 

I cup of catsup or chili 
sauce, 

Mix all together in the mayonnaise ; cut head lettuce 
in four quarters ; pour over each quarter the above salad 
dressing and serve. 



CREAM DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 

Whites of -4 eggs, beaten .S tal)lespoonfuls of lemon 

dry, juice, 

-J- cup of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of boiling 

1 scant tablespoonful of water. 

flour. Pinch of salt. 

Mix floiii' ;iih1 siiojii- with llie boiling- Avator. stii' in 
the lemon juice and whites of eggs and cook until it 
thickens. When cold add i)lonty of wlii]>pod cream. Mix 
with a fork, -hist hefoi'c sei'\ing add some marshmallows. 

— 74 — 



SALAD DRESSING 



ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD DRESSING 

1 hard boiled egg, 3 tablespoonfuls Roquefort 

1 tablespoonful tarragon cheese, 

vinegar, Paprika, 

i teaspoonful salt. Pepper, 

3 tablespoonfuls oil. 

First mash hard-boiled eggs and cheese together 
smoothly, in soup dish; add salt, pepper, and paprika; 
then stir in oil slowly until it is smooth ; then add vinegar. 
Put hearts of head lettuce in l)owl ; cut white of eggs 
in small pieces; pour dressing over last minute before 
serving. If onion flavor is desired, add half teaspoonful 
chopped very fine. Sufficient for three heads of Cal- 
ifornia hend lettuce. 



75 — 



— 76 



77 — 



— 78 



CHEESE DISHES 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

3 eggs, 2 level teaspoonfuls butter, 

1 cup grated cheese, ^ cup milk, 

J teaspoonful salt, 1 heaping tablespoonful 

i teaspoonful cayenne pep- flour, 
per. 

Put butter on the stove in a small saucepan; when it 
is melted, add flour ; stir the mixture until it is smooth 
and frothy, but do not let it brown; add milk gradually 
and boil for one minute; then add the seasoning and 
cheese and the yolks of eggs well beaten. Pour into a 
bowl and set away to cool ; when cold add whites of eggs 
beaten stiff and light. Turn the mixture into eight indi- 
vidual baking dishes. Place in a shallow pan with a little 
water in it and bake twelve minutes in a moderate oven. 

CHEESE BALLS 

1 cup grated cheese, Whites of two eggs beaten 

stiff. 

Mix quickly with spoon; mould Avith floured hands 
into balls. Fry in deep lard in a basket; drain on a cloth. 
Served with salads. 



CHEESE STRAWS 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls i teaspoonful salt, 

sifted flour, i teaspoonful cayenne pep- 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls per, 

Parmesan cheese, A slight grating of nutmeg, 

1 heaping tablespoonful Yolk of one egg, 

butter, 1 tablespoonful of milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, then add milk, then egg and 
butter (melted). Mix w^ell with a spoon; when smooth 
divide it into two parts and roll these thin. Cut into 
narrow strips three inches long. Bake in slow oven fifteen 
minutes. 

— 79 — 



CHEESE DISHES 



CREAM NEUFCHATEL 

Put one pat of Neiifchatel cheese through a ricer, 
add a little salt and cayenne pepper, then stir in one table- 
spoonful of Avhipped cream and beat until smooth and 
light. Put in fancy dish in mound shape and pour over 
it a glass of Bar-le-Duc jelly. 



FROZEN CHEESE 

1 cup grated cheese (mild), i cup aspic jelly (made 
^ cup creamy, whip stiff, partly liquid). 

Beat until stiff, then stir in cheese, a pinch of salt, 
dash of cayenne, a little dry mustard, mix all well to- 
gether. Put in mould and pack in ice and salt. When 
ready to use cut in slices and serve with salad. Nice 
with watercress with French dressing and brown bread. 



CREAM OF ROQUEFORT 

2 cups grated or mashed ^ saltspoonful cayenne pep- 
Roquefort cheese, per, 

-J- cup IMadeira or sherry 1 tablesi)oonful whipped 

wine, cream. 

Mix cheese, wine and pepper together, add the 
whipped cream and stir until smooth. Place in dish and 
sprinkle lightly with paprika. 



— 8U- - 



CHEESE DISHES 



CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 eggs, 

5 tablespoonfuls flour, IJ cups grated cheese (New 

I cup milk, York). 

Rub together butter and flour, add three-fourths cup 
of milk, stir over the fire until boiling, then stir in the 
yolks of eggs and the grated cheese ; as soon as cheese 
melts, remove from the stove ; season with salt, pepper 
and paprika ; then spread on shallow pan to chill ; then 
form in croquette shape ; roll in egg and bread crumbs : 
fry in deep lard a golden brown. 



CHEESE TART 

1 pat Neufchatel cheese, ^ teaspoonful salt, 
i teaspoonful paprika, 3 teaspoonfuls cream. 

Put cheese through a ricer and mix with the other 
ingredients until smooth and light ; put the cheese around 
the edges of oval or square crackers, leaving a space in 
the center for a little Bar le Due, Sunlight strawberry 
or gooseberry, East Indian Chutney pickle. AA^ill serve 
twelve people. 



CHEESE MUFFINS 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 cup grated American 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, cheese, 

I cup milk, 4 eggs, beaten separately. 

Beat in whites last. Bake in popover pans for 30 
minutes. 



— 81 — 



CHEESE DISHES 



CHEESE CRACKERS 

1 pouud mild N. Y. cream IJ tablespoonfuls Worces- 

clieese, tershire sauce, 

1 egg (not beaten), Butter size of a walnut, 

i cup cream, Pinch salt, 

Pinch mustard. 

Put all in a bowl and stir with a fork until smooth 
and about the consistency of whipped cream. Make 
little pyramids of the mixture, one-half or two inches 
high, on square salted crackers ; place on a shallow tin 
and put under gas broiler, with the blaze turned low. As 
soon as they bub])le they are done. They must not brown. 
Serve immediately. Serves sixteen people. 



— 82 



— 83 — 



— 84 — 



— 85 



— 80 — 



CAKE 



LAYER OR LOAF CAKE 



5 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

2 cups sugar, der, 

3 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls any flavor- 
1 cup milk, ing desired. 

I cup butter, 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add yolks of 
eggs, beaten light ; then milk, flour with baking powder 
sifted in, then whites of eggs, beaten stiff, and flavoring. 
Good for dessert with wine sauce. 



ANGEL FOOD 

12 eggs (whites only), 1 teaspoonful cream of 

1 cup flour (measure before tartar, 

sifting, sift five times), 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

IJ cups sugar (measure be- 
fore sifting, sift five 
times). 

Take the finest granulated sugar ; beat eggs to a stiff 
froth, then add sugar gradually, beating all the time ; put 
in flour lightly with cream of tartar. Bake fifty minutes 
in moderate oven. 



NUT CAKE 

Walnut and hickory nut made like recipe of first 
white cake (page 88), with one and one-half cups of 
chopped nuts rolled in a little flour. 



— 87 — 



CAKE 



AVHITE CAKE 

6 eggs (whites), 1 cup milk. 

f cup butter, 1 teaspoonful baking 

3 cups flour (sifted before powder, 

measuring), 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
2 cups sugar. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add milk, flour 
with baking powder, then lastly whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. Bake and try Math a broomstraw ; if it comes out 
clean it is done, if not, bake a few minutes longer. 

Same can be used for hickory nut or walnut cake. 
One and one-half cups nuts are required. 

WHITE CAKE 

IJ cups pulverized sugar, AVhites of 8 eggs, 
^ cup butter (scant), 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

f cup milk, der, 

2 cups flour (measure, then 1 teaspoonful vanilla or 
sift four times), almond. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream (fifteen minutes), 
then add milk and as soon as possible mix in the eggs and 
flour alternately until it is all in. Bake in a rather slow 
oven for forty minutes or one hour. 

WHITE CAKE 

Whites of 9 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking 

1^ cups pulverized sugar, powder, 

2^- cups sifted flour | cup milk, 

(sifted four times), Flavor with vanilla. 
^ cuj) bulter, 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, tlien add milk, 
flour and baking powder; lastly whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven. 

— 88 — 



CAKE 



WHITE CAKE 

■J pound butter, J pint of milk, 

^ pound granulated sugar, | teaspoon baking poAvder, 

f pound flour, Flavor to taste. 

5 whites of eggs, 

Cream butter and sugar, very light. Mix flour and 
baking powder by sifting together. Add whites well 
])eaten to the sugar and l)utter ; then the milk, and last 
the flour. Beat all well and bake in a moderately hot 
oven. 



FRUIT CAKE 

2 pounds flour, 2 dozen eggs, 

2 pounds brown sugar, 1 tablespoonful cloves, 

2 pounds butter, 1 tablespoonful cinnamion, 

3 pounds stoned raisins, 1 tablespoonful allspice, 

4 pounds currants, 1 tablespoonful mace, 
1 pound citron, 3 nutmegs (grated), 

1 pound lemon peel, 1^ cups brandy, 

1 pound fig paste, 1 cup brown sherry, 

I pound almonds (all 1 teacup molasses, 

chopped fine), 1 teacup currant jelly. 

Makes twenty-two pounds of cake. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add brandy 
and almonds, beat until smooth, then well beaten yolks of 
eggs, then jelly (melted), then whites of eggs. Take part 
of the flour and roll the fruit in it, then take remainder 
of the flour and l)eat in tlie mixture lightly. Bake three 
hours. 



89 



CAKE 



FRUIT CAKE NO. 2 



I4 pounds butter. 

1 pound browned flour, 
J cup dark molasses, 

2 pounds currants, 

J dozen black dates, 
J cup Brazil nuts, ground 
fine. 



I pound l)rown sugar, 

II eggs, 

4 pounds seeded raisins, 

^ pound citron, 

3 figs, 

I glass currant jelly, 

I glass brandy. 



Nine glasses grape juice to darken ; grated rind and 
juice of lemon ; spices to taste. Made like Fruit Cake 
No. 1. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 



2 cups granulated sugar, 
J cup butter, 

1 cup milk, 

3 cups flour (level), 

5 eggs, beaten together, 
3 squares of Baker's choc- 
olate, melted, 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 



1 teaspoonful cloves, 

1 teaspoonful vanilla, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 

^ teaspoonful nutraeg, 
^ cup chopped walnuts in 
cake. 



Bake in two thick layers. Put one cu]) nuts chopped 
in frosting. Half this recipe makes an ordinary siz(Ml 
cake. 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Use twice the recipe for boiled icing. JMelt one-half 
cake Baker's cliocolate in granite cup over teakettle while 
making the icing, mix together, flavor with teaspoonful 
vanilla, spread between layer cake. 



90 — 



CAKE 



POUND CAKE 

1 pound eggs (nine or ten 1 pound flour, 

to a pound), j pound butter, 

1 pound sugar (fine gran- -J pound citron, 

ulated), i wine glass of ])randy. 

Beat butter to a cream, then add sugar and beat fif- 
teen minutes or until it is perfect cream; beat eggs sep- 
arately, then add yolks, then flour and whites of eggs 
alternately; brandy and citron last. Bake one and one- 
half hours. 



PLAIN LAYER CAKE 

1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 

2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking 

3 cups flour, powder, 

4 eggs. Flavor to taste. 

Cream half the butter with the sugar, other half with 
yolks of eggs, then mix together, then add milk and flour 
(sifted four times), put baking powder in the last sifting; 
lastly the whites of eggs, beaten light. Can be used for 
chocolate, cocoanut, jelly, cream or lemon layer cake. 

SPICE CAKES 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful ground 

2 cups sugar, brow^n. cinnamon, 

3 cups flour, sifted, J teaspoonful ground cloves, 
1 cup milk, I teaspoonful nutmeg, 

4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
1 cup seeded raisins, powder. 

Cream butter and sugar, put in eggs beaten together, 
milk, spices, put in flour with baking i^owder, one cup 
raisins rolled in a little flour. Bake in muffin pans. 

— 91 — 



CAKE 



SUNSHINE CAKE 

11 eggs, whites, Yolks of six eggs, 

H glasses sugar, pulverized, 1 teaspoonful cream of 

sift three times, tartar, 

1^ cups flour, sifted three 2 teaspoonfuls lemon or 
times, vanilla. 

Cream yolks and sugar together light, then add 
whites beaten stiff, and flour alternately, then flavoring. 
Bake fifty minutes to an hour. 



LADY CAKE 

1 pound flour, four cups. Whites of 21 eggs, 

1^ pounds sugar, three Rind of two lemons, 

cups. Juice of one lemon. 
9 ounces butter, 1| cups. 

Cream butter and sugar, then put in flour and eggs 
alternately, then flavoring. Bake one and one-half hours 
in moderate oven. 



GINGERBREAD 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

J cup molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 

2 eggs, in tAvo teaspoonfuls of 
2 teaspoonfuls ginger, water, 

2 cups flour. 



— 92 — 



CAKE 



JELLY ROLL 



^ teaspoonful baking powder 
if the eggs are not per- 
fectly fresh, 

Juice of one lemon. 



4 eggs, beaten separately, 

1 cup pulverized sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls cold 
water, 

1 cup flour, measure after 
sifting, 

Beat yolks of eggs light, put in sugar, water and flour 
gently; lastly whites of eggs beaten stiff; flavor with the 
lemon juice. Bake in a hot oven quickly and spread with 
soft jelly, and roll. Bake in an oblong dripping pan. 



DOUGHNUTS 


2 cups sugar. 


1 teaspoonful cream of 


7 tablespoonfuls melted 


tartar. 


lard. 


1 nutmeg. 


4 eggs, 


Salt, 


1 pint sour milk. 


Flour enough to roll out 


1 teaspoonful soda. 


and cut. 



DOUGHNUTS NO. 2 



1 large spoonful butter, 
3 eggs, 

1 level cup sugar, 

2 cups skim milk, sweet, 
^ nutmeg, 



I teaspoonful soda in water, 
or 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 
Flour enough to roll out well, 
|- teaspoonful cinnamon. 



DOUGHNUTS NO. 3 

1 tablespoonful butter, ^ nutmeg, grated, 

2 eggs, 3 level teaspoonfuls baking 
^ teaspoonful salt, powder, 

4 cups flour, 1 small cup milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder, salt, and nutmeg four 
times ; then mash in butter ; then milk and eggs well 
beaten together. 

— 93 — 



CAKE 



SOPAl^ILLAS— ^MEXICAN CAKP]S 

Put into a ])()wl about H pints of sifted flour. :\Iake 
a hole in it and drop in one teaspoonful of baking powder, 
a little salt, one egg, a tablespoonfnl of lard. Mix all 
together with water enough to make a soft dough for 
rolling out. Roll into a thin sheet. Cut with a biscuit 
cutter and fry in hot lard as doughnuts. To make them 
puff up tap them on the top with a spoon and dip over 
them the hot lard. When done they should be like a ball 
and perfectly hollow. This will make two dozen. 



COOKIES 

7 eggs. Sprinkle with a little sugar, 

2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoonfnl caraway 

1 cup butter, seeds. 

Flour enough to make a 

dough soft enough to 

roll out. 



COOKIES 

I cup butter, 2 eggs, 

1 heaping cuj) sugar, Flavor to taste, 

1 cup sour milk, Flour enough to roll soft. 

J teaspoonful soda. 



COOKIES 

4 eggs, :| cup sweet milk. 

i cup butter, ] teaspoonful soda, 

-i cup of lard, 2 tablespoonfuls caraway 

2 cups of granulalcd sugai\ seeds. 

Flour enough to roll out. al)()ut two ('\\[)s or a lillle 
more. Longer these are kept the ])etter they are. 

— 94 — 



CAKE 



NUT COOKIES FOR TEA 



One cup of English walnuts chopped, but not too fine ; 
one egg, one cup of brown sugar, butter the size of an 
egg, one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
mix ; drop the batter from a teaspoon on buttered tins, 
not too close ; bake in moderate oven. 



EGOLESS COOKIES 

1 large cupful of butter 1 tal^lespoonful each of 

and lard mixed, cinnamon, cloves, ginger 

1 cup of sugar, and soda, 

1 cup of molasses. Flour enough for a stiff 

I cup of water, ' dough. 

Pour a little boiling water over the soda to dissolve 
it before adding to the mixture. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly and roll a little thinner than sugar cookies. 
"Will keep for weeks in closed .jar. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD 

1 cup of molasses, 1 egg, 

^ cup of butter (scant), 1 teaspoonful ginger, 

1 cup of warm Avater, 1-| teaspoonfuls soda, 

2 cups of flour, 2 even tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Put the soda and ginger in the flour and sift it, then 
put together in the folloAving order : Molasses, sugar, 
melted butter, water, egg (beaten) and flour. Do not stir 
ingredients until the flour is put in, then stir all Avell to- 
gether, but not too long, as it is nicer to get it into the 
oven as quickly as possible. Bake in moderate oven. 

— 95 — 



CAKE 



GINGERBKEAD 



I Clip butter, 

1 cup granulated sugar, 

1 cup N. O. molasses, 

1 cup sour milk, 

} cup flour, 

Pinch salt, 

h teaspoonful ginger, 



teaspoonful mixed spices 
(cinnamon, cloves, mace, 
allspice and a dash of 
pepper), 

egg (yolk and white 
beaten together), 
tablespoonful soda, mixed 
well with molasses and 
sour milk. 



Sift flour, salt and spices together. 



WASHINGTON APPLE CAKE 



^ cup butter, 

1 cup sugar, 

2J cups flour, sifted twice, 

1 cup raisins, seeded and 
chopped, 

1 cup walnuts or hickory 
nuts chopped, 

H cups apple sauce, with- 
out sugrar. 



IJ teaspoonfuls ground cin- 
namon, 

1 teaspoonful ground nut- 
meg, 

1 teaspoonful ground 
cloves, 

2 even teaspoonfuls soda. 



Stir butter and sugar to a cream, then add flour and 
apple sauce (with soda stirred in) alternately; then nuts 
and raisins, i-ollod in part of the flour; then spices and 
a pinch of salt. l>ako sixty minutes in slow oven. 



96 — 



CAKE 



MOCHA TART 

1 cup granulated sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

5 eggs (yolks), der, with flour, 

1^ teaspoonfuls Mocha Add 5 beaten whites of 

extract, eggs. 
1 cup sifted flour, 

Bake five to ten minutes in three layers. 

Filling 

One pint of cream whipped stiff and sweetened to 
taste. 

Icing 

1 cup confectioners' 1| teaspoonfuls Mocha 

sugar, extract. 

Stir w^ell with sugar and add cold water, one tea- 
spoonful at a time, until thin enough to spread. 



CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

Part 1 

1 egg and yolk of another, 1| cups flour, 

J cup of sugar, 1 small teaspoonful soda, 

i cup milk, I teaspoonful salt. 

Part 2 

A little niore than ^ cake ^ cup sugar, 
Baker's chocolate, | cup milk. 

Let this come to a boil and mix with the above ; bake 
in four layers in moderate oven. Put together with 
boiled frosting. Don't add any more flour. 

(4) —97 — 



CAKE 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 



1| cups of sugar, 

J cup of l)utter, 

2J cups of milk, 

If cups of flour, 

A cake Baker's cliocolate. 



8 eggs beaten separately, 
Vanilla to taste, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 



Scrape the chocolate fine, add five teaspoonfuls of 
sugar and three teaspoonfuls of boiling water. Stir over 
fire until smooth, then stir into the beaten yolks of eggs 
and sugar, then add milk, fiour nnd whites of eggs, well 
beaten. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 



1 cup brown sugar, 

I cup butter creamed with 

sugar, 
I cup sour milk, 

1 scant teaspoonful soda, 

2 squares melted chocolate, 

Bake in loaf or layer. 



f cup boiling water (or 1 
cup boiling water, ^ tea- 
spoonful soda added to ^ 
teaspoonful baking pow- 
der in flour), 

Ij: cups flour, 

1 egg, beaten whole. 



KENTUCKY JAM CAKE 

Cream together 1 cup but- 4 teaspoonful each of cloves 
ter and 1 cup sugar, and allspice, 

5 tablespoon fuls sour cream 3^ cups flour, 

in which has been dis- 1 cup blackberry jam. 
solved 1 teaspoonful soda, 

— 98 — 



CAKE 



MOCHA NUT CAKE 

J cup of butter, 1 cup chopped nuts, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking 

1^ cups flour, powder, 

J cup cold coffee, AVhites of 3 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, thoroughly ; stir in coffee and 
flour, smoothly ; then eggs and nuts rolled in a little flour. 
Bake slowly. 



CREAM MOCHA CAKE 

IJ cups of granulated 1 teaspoonful of baking 

sugar, powder (heaping), 

1 cup of strong coffee, 4 eggs beaten together 
If cups of flour before very light. 

sifting (sift 3 times), 

Mix all the ingredients together except one-half cup 
of the flour, into which sift the baking powder and add 
this very lightly at the last. 

Filling « 

2 cups whipping cream, Add ^ cup very strong cof- 
beaten very stiff, fee, slightly sweetened; 

beat well into cream. 

Boiled Icing 

IJ cups granulated sugar, f cup strong coffee. 

Boil together until ropy. White' of one egg beaten 
light ; stirred slowly into syrup. Make in three layers, 
filling between, icing over all. 



— 99 — 



CAKE 



ORANGE LAYER CAKE 



1 tablespoonful butter, 

2 cups flour, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 



1 cup sugar, 

^ cup milk. 

Orange flavoring to taste. 



Custard for Cake 



1 egg, 

1 pint sweet milk, 



i cup sugar, 
A little butter. 



SPONGE CAKE 



3 eggs, 

1 cup flour, 

1 saltspoonful of salt, 



1 coffee cup sugar, 
1 teaspoonful baking 
powder. 



Beat eggs very light; pour into this mixture one- 
half cup of boiling water and beat five minutes. Bake 
in moderate oven half an hour; add one-half teaspoonful 
of vanilla. 



ROCKS 



1 cup butter, 
IJ cups sugar, 
3 cups flotir, 

2 cups raisins (chopped), 
i cup hot water. 

Drop with a teaspoon. 



1 teaspoonful soda, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg, 
1 pound English walnuts 
(before shelled), chopped. 



100 — 



CAKE 



CREAM SCONES 

2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

3 eggs, powder, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

^ cup cream. 

Sift dry materials together ; work in the butter with 
the fingers ; beat eggs well and add to the cream : stir 
this into, the dry materials and butter; roll out three- 
fourths of an inch thick ; cut into diamond shape ; brush 
over with white of egg slightly beaten ; sprinkle wnth 
powered sugar. 



OAT MEAL COOKIES 

1 cup white sugar, 1^ teaspoonfuls extract 

2 eggs, vanilla, 

1 teaspoonful baking | teaspoonful salt, 

powder, 2 large cups rolled oats, 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Cream butter and sugar together, add rolled oats, 
then eggs w^ell beaten ; mix thoroughly. Drop on a well 
greased pan with a teaspoon, quite a distance apart. 
Bake in a quick oven, as they burn very easily. 



BROWNIES— COOKIES 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup flour, 

^ cup melted butter, ^ cup broken walnuts, 

2 squares Baker's choco- 2 eggs, beaten together, 
late. 

— 101 — 



CAKE 



COFFEE CAKE 



1 cup sugar, 

2 cups flour, 

i cup cold coffee, 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg, 
i teaspoonful soda, 
I cup butter. 



cup molasses, 

teaspoonful cinnamon, 

teaspoonful ground 

cloves, 

cup chopped raisins. 



'^BEOTHORTE" 

(A Delicious German Cake) 



Yolks of 12 eggs beaten 
with 2 cups of powdered 
sugar, 

2 loaves of rye bread — 
5 cent loaves — grated 
fine and sifted to make 
2 small heaping cups of 
crumbs after sifting, 

I pound of almonds grated. 

{ pound of citron gratod 

i\lix ('1^^11)8, chocolate. ( 
then add to eggs and sugar, 
to above. Add brandy last 
one hour. 



or chopped very fine, 
I pound of chocolate, 

grated. 
Juice and rind of 1 lemon, 
Juice of an orange. 
Small teaspoon of allspice 

and cinnamon. 
I teaspoon of cloves, 
4 cup of brandy. 

•itron and lemon peel together. 

Heat whites of eggs and add 

and bake in a very slow oven 



GOOD MOLASSES CAKE 



1 cup New Orleans mo- 
lasses, 
}, cup cold water, 
.] cup brown sugar, 
:\ cup ])utter, 



2^ cups flour, 

1 egg, 

2 teaspoonfuls soda, even, 
^ teaspoonful ginger, 

^ teaspoonful cinnamon. 



— 102 — 



CAKE 



WHITE CAKE 

2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 

^ cup of butter, 3 small teaspoonfuls of 

3 cups of flour, baking powder sifted in 
AA^hites of 4 eggs, the flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, then stir in milk and flour 
a little at a time ; add the beaten whites last and flavor to 
taste. Bake about 45 minutes. 



GOLD CAKE 

2 cups of sugar, Yolks of 4 eggs, 

f cup of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

1 cup of milk, powder sifted in the 

3 cups of flour, flour ; flavor to taste. 

Mix as usual and bake about forty-five minutes. 



All cakes and preserves in this book can be made with 
beet sugar as well as cane. 



— 103 — 



— 104 



— 105 — 



106 — 



— 107 — 



108 — 



FILLINGS 



ICING— BOILED 

1 cup granulated sugar, ^ cup water, 

White of 1 egg. 

Boil sugar and water like candy, try in water, when 
hard enough to form a soft ball it is done. Beat white of 
egg until stiff, then add the syrup while hot, beating all 
the time until it gets hard enough to spread and becomes 
pure white. Once the recipe will be enough for loaf cake 
and twice the recipe for layer cake. 



COCOANUT PILLING 

Use boiled icing the same as for loaf or layer cake, 
sprinkle each layer liberally Avith freshly grated or dry 
cocoanut. 



FIG FILLING 

i pound fresh figs. Juice of ^ lemon or 

i cup sugar, ^ wine glass sherry wine. 

Chop figs fine, soak one night in enough water to 
cover them, boil tender next day, put in sugar, cook until 
smooth enough to spread nicely, then add flavoring. 



NUT FILLING 

Make boiled frosting like former recipe, add one- 
fourth teaspoonful tartaric acid dissolved in a teaspoonful 
of boiling water to the syrup as you take it from the stove. 
Beat syrup in ^fhites of eggs, chop one pound walnuts fine, 
reserve enough whole nuts to put on top, spread nuts one- 
fourth inch thick in icing, 

— 109 — 



FILLINGS 



LEMON JELLY FILLING 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two lemons, 
grated rinds and juice, yolks of three eggs, one cup boil- 
ing water, one and one-half tablespoonfuls flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour, yolks beaten light, 
lemon juice and lastly water, put on the stove and boil 
until thick and smooth enough to spread on layer cake. 

Orange filling is made in the same Avay, using one 
orange, rind and juice together. 



— no- 



Ill 



— 112 — 



DESSERTS 



LEMON JELLY 

1 cup cold water poured Juice 2 lemons, rind of 1, 
over ^ box Knox's 2J cups boiling water, 

gelatine, 2 cups sugar. 

Stir all together, boil gelatine, water, lemon and rind, 
and sugar on stove, strain through jelly bag. Orange 
jelly made in the same way. 



WINE JELLY 

2 pounds white sugar, 4 1^ pints boiling water, 

cups. Juice of 2 lemons, 

1 pint sherry wine. Grated peel of 1, 

1 pint cold water, 2 sticks of cinnamon. 
1 package Knox's gelatine. 

Soak gelatine thirty minutes in the cold water, mix all 
the other ingredients with the gelatine, pour on boiling 
water, then wine, boil ten minutes, then strain through 
jelly bag in jelly moulds previously dipped in cold water 
and set away on ice to get cold. Can be made in the 
morning for dinner at six o'clock, or for next day. 



FRUIT JELLY 

The above jelly is delicious with 

12 muscat grapes, 1 mandarin orange divided 

J of a banana, sliced, in pieces, or J of a large 

J cup chopped nuts, orange. 

Dropped in when jelly is half cold. Serve with 
cream. 

— 113 — 



DESSERTS 



PRUNE JELLY 



1 pound dried prunes, 2 cups sugar, 

J cup sherry wine, J box Knox's gelatine, 

3 figs chopped fine, IJ quarts cold water, 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Wash prunes, boil prunes and figs in water men- 
tioned above until tender enough to mash through a col- 
ander, leaving all the juice in, soak gelatine in one-fourth 
cup cold Avater half an hour. Put all the ingredients 
together, let them come to a boil, put in a mould pre- 
viously dipped in cold water set away to get cold. Served 
with whipped cream around it is delicious. 



COFFEE JELLY 

1 quart clear cof¥ee, 1 cup cold water, 

J box Knox's gelatine, 2 cups sugar. 

Soak gelatine in cold water one-half hour, put in 
sugar, then coffee, let all come to a boil, strain through a 
jelly bag, put in a mould dij)ped in cold water. 



SPANISH CREAM 

3 pints milk, 6 eggs, 

1 ounce Knox's gelatine, 8 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Pour milk over gelatine to soak one hour, let it come 
to a boil, then add eggs and sugar beaten light, when 
almost cold pour mixture over whites of eggs which have 
been beaten stiff, flavor with two tablespoonfuls of rum 
or vanilla. Pour in moulds dipped in cold water. 

— 114 — 



DESSERTS 



ORANGE BAVARIAN CREAM 

1^ pints whipping cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 

l pint orange juice, 2J teaspoonfuls Knox's 

i large cup sugar, gelatine. 

h cup cold water, 

Soak gelatine in the cold water twenty minutes. 
Grate rind of two oranges, put the juice and sugar in 
bowl and let it stand until needed. This should be done 
first. Then whip the pint of cream stiff. Take the half 
pint of cream, put in a double boiler, beat the yolks light, 
add when the cream is hot, stir until it coats the spoon, 
put in the soaked gelatine, stir until dissolved, put into a 
bowl, stir the mixture until it thickens, then add the 
orange juice, grated rind and sugar, stir this constantly 
until it thickens, then add the whipped cream. Continue 
to stir until quite thick, just so it can be poured in a 
mould. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 quart whipping cream, | box Knox's gelatine, 
1 cup granulated sugar, soaked ^ hour in ^ 

1 tablespoonful vanilla, cup water. 

Ptit bowl of cream on pan of ice when you whip it ; 
when whipped stiff' sprinkle with the sugar and vanilla. 
Put gelatine and water in a granite cup to soak, then dis- 
solve over teakettle, just warm enough to pour easily. 
Beat all the time while putting in the gelatine, when 
partially set pour in moulds (dipped in cold water). If 
you desire you can line the moulds with lady fingers. AVill 
serve ten people. 



— 115 — 



DESSERTS 



ORANGE SOUFFLE 

1 pint orange juice, Yolks of 5 eggs, 

1 pint sugar, ^ box gelatine softened with 

1 pint rich cream, a little cold water and 

whipped, steamed over teakettle. 

Beat yolks and sugar to a cream, add orange juice 
and gelatine. When mixture begins to thicken (not before), 
mix in whipped cream thoroughly. Put in melon mould 
on ice for four or five hours. Serve with a border of 
whipped cream. 



PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE 

Make a plain charlotte and add a teacupful of grated 
pineapple the last thing. Candied fruits chopped fine are 
nice put in it as a change. 



CHOCOLATE SURPRISE 

Melt two cakes of sweet chocolate in the upper part 
of the double-boiler ; remove from the fire, add two table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, three tablespoonfuls of con- 
fectioner's sugar, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and 
lastly the egg whites stiffly whipped. Place a layer of 
split lady fingers in a small bread pan that has been lined 
with waxed paper, and over this pour half of the choco- 
late mixture; add a layer of nut meats, then arrange an- 
other layer of the lady fingers and add the rest of the 
chocolate. Prepare this dessert the day before you wish 
to use it and set it in the refrigerator until serving time. 
Serve with sweetened whipped cream slightly flavored 
with vanilla. 

— 116 — 



DESSERTS 



FLOATING ISLAND 

1 pint milk, ^ cup sugar, 

3 eggs, beaten separately, 1 stick cinnamon. 

Boil milk and cinnamon together, beat whites of eggs 
very stiff and drop in spoonfuls on boiling milk to cook 
one minute on one side, then the other. Beat the yolks 
and sugar together, then take whites and lay aside on a 
plate, make custard of the milk and eggs together, boil 
five minutes, put in a dish with white of egg on top. 



CRUMBLED TARTS 

1 cup chopped dates, 1 cup chopped pecans, 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar. 
1 teaspoonful baking 

powder. 

Mix baking powder with sugar, add dates, eggs and 
pecans. Bake in oven thirty minutes, in large, flat pan ; 
when cold, break in small pieces. Serve in sherbet glasses 
with whipped cream on top. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING 

Make New York ice cream and add one pint boiled 
chestnuts mashed through a sieve, also candied fruits 
chopped fine, and a tablespoonful of rum the last thing. 



— 117 — 



DESSERTS 



SULTANA ROLL 

Line a one-pound baking powder can with pistachio 
ice cream, sprinkle with sultana raisins soaked in brandy 
or sherry wine one hour ; flavor and sweeten to taste and 
fill the center with Avhipped cream; cover with ice cream, 
pack in ice and salt; let stand two hours. Serve with 
claret sauce made as follows : One cup sugar, one-half 
cup claret, cook ten minutes. 



CAFE PARFAIT AND CAFE PRALINE 

Put the yolks of five eggs into saucepan, beat them 
light; add three tablespoonfuls of sugar syrup and four 
tablespoonfuls of strong black coffee. Stir the mixture 
over a sIoav fire until it is enough thickened to make a 
thick coating on the spoon. Turn it into a bowl and beat 
until it is cold and light. If making cafe praline, add 
three tablespoonfuls praline powder, mix in lightly a pint 
of cream whipped to a stiff froth; if any liquid has 
drained from the cream do not let it go in. Turn the 
mixture into a mould holding three pints, and pack in ice 
and salt for four hours. 



PRALINE POWDER 

Put one and a half cupfuls of sugar and half a cupful 
of water into a saucepan on the fire ; stir until the sugar is 
well dissolved, then add a cupful of slielled almonds and 
a cupful of shelled filberts, without removing the skins. 
Let it cook without touching until it attains a golden 
color, the caramel stage; turn it on to a slab or oiled dish. 
When it is cold pound in a mortar to a powder. Keep the 
praline powder in an air-tight jar, ready for use. — From 
Century Cook Book. 

— 118 — 



DESSERTS 



PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 

1 can pineapple (grated) 3 cups sugar, 

or any fruit mashed fine, ^ cup sherry wine, 

J can water, ^ pound candied cherries, 

1 quart rich cream, chopped fine, 

1 pint milk, 1^ teaspoonfuls pink vege- 

3 eggs, table coloring, 
2 tablespoonfuls vanilla. 

Make custard of milk, egg and sugar beaten to- 
gether. Flavor the pineapple with the wine, when custard 
is cold put that in next, then the cream, beaten stiff, then 
coloring, cherries, then freeze, and mould if desired. This 
amount will serve eighteen people. 



NEAA^ YORK ICE CREAM 

1 pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla or 2 

3 eggs beaten together, tablespoonfuls rum and 

1 quart cream (whipping), brandy, 

f cup sugar. 

Make custard of milk and eggs and sugar, boiled to- 
gether, then flavor and wdiip cream stiff, mix all" together, 
freeze. Will serve eight people. This cream is delicious 
with candied fruits all through it. One-half pound, 
chopped fine, or two cups of fresh or preserved fruit 
mashed in it, and moulded in form, with candied fruits 
put all over it as a decoration. Serve in nest of spun 
sugar. 



— 119 — 



DESSERTS 



COFFEE ICE CREAM 

1 pint milk, 1 pint cold strong coffee, 

3 eggs, - 1 quart rich cream whipped. 

1 cup sugar, 

Boil milk, beat eggs and sugar together, put them in 
milk for custard, let it come to a boil, cool, whip cream 
stiff, add coffee gently, then custard; freeze. Will serve 
twelve people. 

Chocolate ice cream can be made by adding one- 
fourth cake Baker's chocolate with one-half cup more 
sugar, melt over teakettle before using. 



DESSERTS FROZEN WITHOUT CHURNING 



ANGEL PUDDING 

1 quart whipping cream, ^ pound shelled and 
1 teacup pulverized sugar, blanched almonds. 
1 tablespoonful extract 
vanilla. 

Whip cream stiff; then add sugar, vanilla, lastly 
almonds (shredded lengthwise, very fine). Add slowly 
to the cream. Fill mould with cold water for a minute, 
then pour out; sprinkle the mould with some of the 
almonds — about one-third of what you have shredded ; 
put rest of the almonds lightly through the cream. This 
will make a three-pint mould. Seal the edges of the 
mould with lard so the ice and salt cannot get in. Pack 
in a freezer with salt and ice for six hours. Will serve 
twelve people. 



— 120 



DESSERTS 

(Frozen Without Churning) 



TRILBY PUDDING 

1 pint cream, whipped, 1 cup powdered sugar, mix 

1 pound marshmallows, cut with cream, 

into small pieces and roll 1 cup chopped (blanched) 

in sugar, almonds, 

1^ cups maraschino cherries. 

Pack in mould in order given in ice and salt. 

RUM PARPAIT 

1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of Jamaica rum, 

J cup of water, 1^ cups of whipping cream, 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

Boil sugar and water together to a thick syrup, let it 
cool, then put in a double boiler with the well beaten 
yolks of eggs and cook until thick. Remove from the fire 
and beat until smooth. Let it stand until thoroughly cold, 
then stir in the rum and the cream, whipped until it is 
thick. Put in a mould and pack in ice and salt for three 
hours. 

BISCUIT GLACE 

1 pint cream beaten stiff, ^ cup sugar, 
18 macaroons rolled to ^ cup water, 

powder, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

3 eggs. 

Boil sugar and water very gently half an hour, beat 
the eggs light and add to the syrup, put in a pan of water 
and heat ten minutes, take from the stove and beat until 
cold, then add the whipped cream, fill little paper boxes 
with the cream mixture, dust with the macaroon powder, 
pack the freezer, let it stand while you are making the 
cream, then fill the freezer with the cases, one on top of 
the other, with paper between, and let them stand for 
six hours, when they are ready for serving. This amount 
will fill twelve small boxes. 

— 121 — 



DESSERTS 



MAPLE MOUSSE 



Beat four eggs very light or separatel}^; add grad- 
ually^, beating all the time, one cup of warm maple syrup ; 
cook in a double-boiler until thick ; then add one pint of 
whipped cream, but first let the eggs and syrup get good 
and cold. Pack four hours or more, like the above recipe. 



PISTACHIO MOUSSE 

2 quarts whipping cream, 8 tablespoonfuls pistachio 

1 box Knox's gelatine, flavoring, 

20 cts. worth pistachio 2 tablespoonfuls spinach 

nuts, coloring. 
1 cup powdered sugar, 

Dissolve gelatine in one-half cup cold water, then 
pour one pint hot plain cream on it, whip stiff the re- 
mainder of the cream, three pints, and pour the gelatine 
cream over it, whipping all the time, then add sugar, nuts, 
chopped fine, then flavoring, stir in well, put in a mould 
dipped in cold water, pack in a freezer or pail with ice and 
salt for six hours, serve with preserves around it. AVill 
serve eighteen people. 

Raspberry, peach or strawberry mousse are made in 
the same way as the preceding recipe, except one-fourth 
cup more of sugar and one and one-half cups of fresh or 
preserved fruit are added, mashed fine through a col- 
ander. In making fruit mousses leave out pistachio nuts 
and flavoring. 

MARRON MOUSSE 

One pint boiled and mashed chestnuts, added to the 
first or plain mousse, leaving out the pistachio nuts and 
flavoring, with a little sherry wine, is delicious. Color 
with two teaspoonfuls of pink vegetable coloring bought 
at the druggist's. 

— 122 — 



DESSERTS 



PINEAPPLE PARFAIT 

1 can sliced pineapple, 1 cup sugar, J cup water, 

f cup sugar syrup, boil until thick, makes the 

Yolks of 4 eggs, syrup, 

IJ cups whipping cream. J cup juice (pineapple), 

^ cup pineapple in pieces. 

Put two pieces of pineapple on each side of mouli] 
and one at either end. 

Put in double-cooker three-fourths cup of juice and 
syrup and beaten yolks of eggs, cook until thick, remove 
from stove ; beat until smooth, then add one-half cup of 
pineapple cut in small pieces, cold. Whip cream until 
thick, mix with above ; put into mould ; pack in ice and 
salt for three hours. 



— 123 — 



DESSERTS 



PECHE MELBA 

(Peach) 

A slice of white cake half inch thick (cut out in 
round pieces). A piece of plain ice cream half an inch 
thick (cut out in round pieces). A medium size brandy 
peach. Plum or currant syrup seasoned with rum. 

First place cake on plate, then ice cream, then brandy 
peach, then pour fruit syrup over all. 



IMPERIAL RICE 

Boil one-half cup rice an hour in plenty of water, 
strain and allow to cool ; then soak one-third of 
a box of Knox gelatine in some preserve syrup (we use 
the Batavia pineapple). AVhen dissolved add to rice with 
two or three tablespoonfuls of the preserve, and sugar 
to taste. Beat well. 

Whip one pint cream, add to rest and stir thoroughly. 
Turn into mould and place on ice. 

Sherbets 



FRUIT SHERBET 

1 pint preserved straw- 2 cans or H quarts water, 

berries, f pint sherry wine, 

1 pint preserved rasp- | pint Jamaica rum, 
berries, 6 oranges and 6 lemons, 

2 cans grated pineapple, squeeze juice out. 

4 cups sugar. 

Boil sugar nnd water to a syrup. Put all the pre- 
serves through a rieer or sieve, mix all together and 
freeze, color with two tablespoonfuls of pink vegetable 
coloring. AYill make six quarts, may be a little more. 
Fresh fruits can be used when in season. 

— 124 — 



DESSERTS 



LEMON SORBET 

1 pint lemon juice, 1 quart Avater in which the 

1 pint sugar, rinds of the lemons have 

stood 3 hours. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, put in lemon juice, 
when partly frozen put in whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiff. Will serve eight people. 



OEANGE SORBET 

Is made in the same way as above, only adding the 
juice of two lemons, with the juice of six oranges, pro- 
ceed as above. Can be made of one pint of any fresh 
fruit put through a ricer. 



MINT SHERBET 

Boil four cups of water and two cups of sugar 
together. Take the leaves from twelve large stalks of 
mint, bruise them, and add to the hot syrup. Let it 
stand three hours, then strain and add the juice of two 
lemons and three tablespoonfuls of creme de menthe 
and one-half teaspoonful of green vegetable coloring. 
Freeze and serve before game course. 



CANTALOUPE SHERBET 

2 large cantaloupes, ^ cup sherry wine, 

^ cup of augar (for 1 pint Juice of half a lemon, 
pulp), I teaspoonful salt. 

Scrape pulp from the rind after removing the seeds 
and pass through a potato ricer. Add the salt, sugar, 
wine and lemon juice and freeze. Remove the dasher 
and let it stand until ready to serve. 

— 125 — 



DESSERTS 



FRUIT PUNCH 

Take equal parts of orange, maraschino cherries, 
strawberries, pineapple and bananas, cut the large fruit 
in small pieces, put all together and put in punch glasses. 
Over each pour a teaspoonful of sugar syrup and a table- 
spoonful of maraschino, or sherry and brandy mixed. 
Shaddocks may be used instead of oranges. To be served 
as the first course of a luncheon. 



— 126 — 



127 



— 128 — 



(5) 



129 — 



130 — 



BREAD 



GOOD WHITE BREAD 

2 Hunter sifters full of 1 tablespoonful butter or 

flour, lard, 

1 medium sized potato, 1 cake Fleischmann's com- 

boiled, pressed yeast dissolved 

1 tablespoonful salt, in one coffee cup full of 

1 tablespoonful sugar, warm water, 
1 quart of boiling water. 

Sift the flour into the bread pan and take from it a 
large cupful, put in a two-quart dish and add the sugar, 
salt and butter, mix well together, then add the hot boiled 
potato rubbed through sieve or ricer, and stir in the boil- 
ing water very slowly; let it stand until luke-warm and 
then stir in the water with yeast dissolved in it. Make a 
hole in the flour in the bread pan, pour the sponge in and 
let it stand in a warm place until light, or about two hours. 
When light mix tAventy minutes, cover and set away over 
night in a cool place. In the morning make into loaves 
and let them rise until they have doubled in size. Glaze 
the tops of the loaves with milk and bake one hour. This 
makes three large or four small loaves. 



GRANDMA'S BROWN BREAD 

1 large cup bread sponge, 1 large cup N, 0. molasses, 
1 large cup sweet milk. A little salt. 

Mix all together and then stir in enough graham flour 
to make a stiff batter (two cups or a little more). 

Put in buttered two-quart pail and let it rise. When 
light steam three hours, then put in the oven long enough 
to brown. 

— 131 — 



BREAD 



CORN BREAD 

1 cup flour, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 

J cup corn meal, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup sweet milk, powder, 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Stir butter, sugar and eggs together, add the milk, 
then corn meal and flour with the baking powder sifted in 
it. Bake in shallow tins or dripping pan. 



CORN BREAD NO. 2 

2 scant cupfuls of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of butter, 

1 cupful of corn meal, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

1 cupful of milk, powder. 
1 ^gS, 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

3 cups sour milk, 1 cup corn meal, 

1 cup molasses, 1 heaping teaspoonful soda 

3 cups graham flour, in sour milk. 

Steam three hours and bake one hour. 



— 132 



BREAD 

LIGHT ROLLS 

I cake compressed yeast, 1 cup milk, 
1 cup flour, ^ cup lukewarm water, 

^ teaspoonful salt. 
Dissolve the yeast in the warm water, then add milk, 
flour and salt, let it rise four hours. When light add 
enough flour to make a stiff dough and knead ten minutes 
and let it rise again, make into rolls, let them stand until 
light and then bake. This can be "set" either at night 
or in morning. 

SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUIT 

1 quart sifted flour, ^ pint milk, 

J coffee cup lard, 1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Rub flour, salt and lard together until there are no 
lumps, then add the milk. Beat twenty minutes, or until 
the dough blisters and pops Avhen pulled apart. Roll out 
about a quarter of an inch thick, cut with small biscuit 
cutter and prick each with a fork. Bake twenty minutes 
in rather hot oven. This quantity makes about thirty bis- 
cuits. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS 

1 quart graham flour, 1 heaping tablespoonful 

1 teaspoonful baking lard and butter mixed, 

powder, 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Add enough milk to make a soft dough, just stiff 
enough to roll out. Cut with medium-sized biscuit cutter 
and bake twenty minutes. 

BISCUIT 

1 cup of flour measured 1 teaspoonful of l)aking 

before sifting," powder, 

i teaspoonful of salt. 
Shortening the size of a small egg and milk enough 
to make a soft dough. IMix with a spoon. Knead slightly 
and mash (not roll) with the rolling pin. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

— 133 — 



BREAD 



QUICK BISCUIT 

2 cups flour, sifted 3 times, | spoonful salt, 

1 tablespoonful butter and 1 teaspoonful, heaping, 

lard mixed, baking powder. 
1 cup SAveet milk, 

Sift flour into large bowl with the baking powder and 
salt, rub the butter and lard well through it, stir in the 
milk. Turn on moulding board, roll about three-quarters 
of an inch thick and cut with medium-sized biscuit cutter. 
Handle as little and as quickly as possil)le and bake in 
steady oven. 



MUFFINS AVITH RICE 

2 cuj^s flour, Butter size of an egg, small, 

1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup milk, powder, 

2 eggs, I spoonful salt. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt together, 
and rub butter well through it. Beat the eggs very light, 
add the milk and pour into flour and beat until smooth and 
light, then put in the rice and beat again until well mixed. 
Bake in buttered muffin rings for half an hour in quick 
oven. 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

1-^ cups flour, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 

1 small cup of corn meal, ])utter, 

h cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful l)aking 

1 f)int milk, powder, 

2 eggs. 

— 134 — 



BREAD 



SALLY LUNN 

1 pint flour, 2 tablespoonfiils baking 

1 scant cup milk, powder, 

^ cup butter, melted, ^ teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

Sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt together, 
beat the yolks of the eggs light and add the milk and 
melted butter, stir quickly into the flour, then put in 
lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put 
in a shallow pan and bake fifteen minutes in a very hot 
oven. 

For graham muffins use above recipe, only taking half 
graham flour. 



PUFFS 

1 cup flour, J teaspoonful salt, 

1 cup milk, 3 eggs, beaten separately. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light, then add the 
milk, stir in the flour and salt, and lastly the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake twenty minutes in 
moderate oven without opening the door. 



RICE WAFFLES 

1 cup rice, 1 egg, 

1 pint sour milk, *4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

^ teaspoonful soda. 

*For low altitudes two tablespoonfuls flour. 
Stir together like the following waffle recipe. 

— 135 — 



BREAD 



WAFFLES 

1 pint sour milk. P'loiir enough to make a 

8 eggs, batter as for cakes. 

J teaspoonful soda, scant, ^ teaspoonful salt. 

Stir the soda into tlie milk until it is all foaming, then 
add to the yolks of the eggs beaten light with the salt. Stir 
in the flour and beat until perfectly smooth. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and put in last. Bake in 
waffle irons. 



WAFFLES WITH SWEET lAIILK 

1 scant cupful milk, J teaspoonful 1)Mking pow- 
^ teaspoonful salt, der, 

2 eggs, beaten separately, 1 tablesj^oonful melted 
1 heaping cupful flour, butter. 

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder, then add 
the beaten yolks of eggs to the milk and butter; lastly 
the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Have waffle iron very 
hot, brush both sides with melted lard, and bake. 



(^KULLERS 

.'i tumblers flour. 1 teasi)o()nrul soda, 

7 tablespoonfuls giMiiu- 1 teasp(K^nful salt, 

lated sugar, 4 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls iiu'ltod | teaspoonful nutmeg, 

lard, 4 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Dissolve soda in the milk. 

— 136 — 



BREAD 



CREAM GRIDDLE CAKES 



1 pint cracker or grated 1 teaspoonful soda, 

bread crumbs, 1 even teaspoonful salt, 

1 pint sour cream, 4 eggs, beaten separately, 

J pint milk, | cup flour. 



SOUTHERN EGG BREAD 

1 cup corn meal, 1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cup boiled rice. Milk enough to make batter 

8 eggs, beaten separately, as for cakes, 

Butter size of an egg. 

Cook the corn meal in enough boiling water to make 
mush, add the salt and butter, then the rice and yolks of 
eggs, then whites and milk last. Pour into buttered bak- 
ing dish and bake half an hour. 



CORN DODGERS 

1 quart white corn meal, ^ pint boiling water poured 
1 tablespoonful lard, over the corn meal, then 

1 teaspoonful salt, scant, add lard and salt. 

Mix and form with the hands in cone-shaped pieces 
while hot; dent with a knife three times and fry in deep 
lard. 



— 137 



BREAD 



OAT MEAL NUT BREAD 

1 tablespoonful salt, 1 cake compressed yeast, 

1 full cup broken pecan dissolved in ^ cup luke- 

meats, warm water. 
8 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

In morning add two cups of boiling water to one cup 
of Quaker Oats, and next morning add another cupful 
of hot water to above ingredients, adding sufficient flour 
to form loaf ; knead until it will not stick to board ; let 
rise; then form into three loaves; let rise again and bake 
three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Let oven be hot 
when bread is put in, then turn down gas. 



NTJT BREAD 

2 eups flour, 1 cup milk, 

2 eggs, 1 cup fine chopped walnuts, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

I teaspoonful salt, powder. 

First beat eggs well together, then add milk ; sift dry 
materials together, mix with the liquids; then, lastly, 
add nuts and beat well. Bake three-quarters of an hour 
in a moderate oven. 



BRAN GEMS 

2 eggs, i cup molasses, 

2 heaping cui)fuls hi'an. 1 tenspoonfnl soda, 

J cup Avhite flour, Piiicjh salt. 
1 cup sour milk, 

— 138 — 



BREAD 



MUFFINS— PLAIN 

1^ cups flour, ^ cup melted butter, 

2 eggs, beaten together, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar, powder. 
1 cup milk. 

Measure and then sift flour, salt, sugar and baking 
powder together into bowl; then add milk, then egg, and 
beat well. Bake fifteen minutes in moderate oven. 



COCOA MUFFINS 

1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1^ cups flour, 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

1 cup milk, der, 

2 eggs, well beaten, yolks 1 small teaspoonful vanilla, 
and whites separately, 3 teaspoonfuls cocoa. 

Stir butter and sugar to a cream and mix with the 
yolks of the eggs ; add milk, flour and baking powder : 
lastly, the cocoa and the whites of the eggs. Bake in m 
m'oderate oven. This makes two and a half dozen, size 
of a dollar. 



BATTER CAKES NO. 1 

1 egg, 1 cup milk, 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 1 cup flour. 

der, i teaspoonful sugar, 

J teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls melted 

butter. 

First beat egg in bowl, then add part of milk, then 
flour in which baking powder and salt have been sifted, 
then melted butter; stir all well together. 

— 139 — 



BREAD 



BATTER CAKES NO. 2 

2 eggs, beaten separately, 1 small cup flour, 
1 cup milk. Pinch salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 

Put in beaten whites of eggs last. Bake on hot griddle 
which has been greased with lard. 



(^ORN IMEAL SOUFFLE 

J cup corn meal, 1 cup milk, 

3 eggs, Pinch salt and pepper. 

Heat milk to boiling point, add corn meal and cook 
five minutes; cool; add well-beaten yolks and then fold 
in the whites after they have been beaten stiff; put in 
pudding dish. Took thirty minutes, in a pan of water. 



ITO:\ITNY BREAD 

1 cup hominy (cooked), 2 tablespoons flour, 

1 <'iip Jiiillx. ] tablespoon melted bii1i(M\ 

2 eggs, ^ tonsi)oon snlt. 

Buttei' l)nldn,ii' disli nnd bnlvo h\-(Mi1\- iiiiiin1(^s. 



140 — 



BREAD 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

1 pint flour, 1 tablespoonful lard, 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of J teaspoonful salt, 

Dr. Price's baking Enough milk to moisten the 

powder, flour (about 1 cup). 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together, put in 
the lard and work well together with your hands, then 
add the milk and stir two or three minutes or until smooth 
and light. Turn onto a floured board roll out and cut 
with small biscuit cutter. Glaze the tops with milk. 



BREAD AND ROLLS 

1 cake compressed yeast, i teaspoonful salt, 

1 teaspoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls lard 
1 Hunter sifter flour, (melted). 

1 cup lukewarm milk, 

Stir yeast and sugar together smooth, add salt and 
pour over milk ; put flour in four-quart yellow bowl, make 
a hole in center and put in the above. Mix well and let 
it rise an hour, then mix with a spoon; roll out in thin 
paste on board and beat with rolling pin. Take out 
enough dough for rolls and the remainder will make two 
loaves of bread. 



141 



— 142 



143 — 



— 144 — 



PIES 

PIE CRUST 

1^ cups flour, Ice water to make a stiff 

J cup lard, dough. 

■J teaspoonful salt, 

Mix with a knife the flour, salt and lard together and 
add the ice water; cut in half, roll thin and use for the 
lower, crust. Roll other half and spread lard all over, 
sprinkle with a little flour, fold together with two folds 
and roll for upper crust. Let it stand for five minutes be- 
fore rolling out the last time ; glaze the top crust with 
milk. 

CUSTARD PIE 

1 scant quart of milk, 5 tablespoonfuls sugar 

4 eggs, beaten light, (heaping), 

^ grated nutmeg. 

Add eggs to milk and sugar, then nutmeg. Bake in 
rich pie crust in pan one inch thick (more like layer cake 
pan). Bake twenty minutes in slow oven, slower the 
better; test if done by putting a knife in center — if done 
the knife will come out clean. 

Add one cup of freshly grated cocoanut to above 
recipe for cocoanut pie. 

LEMON PIE 

1 cup sugar, 1 lemon (grated), rind 

1 cup boiling water, and juice, 

3 eggs, 11 heaping tablespoonfuls 

flour. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and add sugar, flour and lemon, 
stir in the boiling water and let it boil up once. Line a pie 
tin with a good puff' paste and bake, then fill Avith the mix- 
ture, cover with a meringue made with the whites of the 
eggs and bake again. 

— 145 — 



PIES 



SQUASH PIE 

1 coffee cup cooked | teaspooiiful nutmeg, 

squash (scant), 2 eggs, 

1 coffee cup milk, 1 level teaspoonful ground 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls ginger, 

sugar, 1 level teaspoonful ground 

1 tablespoonful melted cinnamon, 

butter, ^ teaspoonful salt. 

Put the squash through sieve or ricer, add the sugar, 
butter, spices and salt and beat thoroughly, then put in 
the eggs (well beaten) and lastly the milk. 

This amount makes medium size pie. If not enough 
of the mixture to fill the dish full, add a little more milk 
or cream. 

COCOANUT PIE 

1 quart milk. 1 cup sugar, 

1 cocoanut, 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Whites of four eggs, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Boil the milk and sugar, dissolve the cornstarch in a 
little cold milk and add to the boiling milk, stir in the 
butter and take from the stove, then put in the cocoanut 
and lastly the well beaten whites of eggs. 



SOUTHERN SWEET POTATO PIE 

2 cups of finely mashed H cups sugar, 

sweet potato, 1 pinch salt, 

1 cup sweet milk, 4 eggs, 

^ cup butter, 2 teaspooiifuls cinnamon. 

Cream butter and part of the sugar togethei*, beat 
rest of tlie sugar with yolks of eggs. Stir in these the 
milk, potato, cinnamon, salt and lastly the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Bake with a lower crust. 

— 146 — 



PIES 

MINCE MEAT 

6 pounds lean beef boiled 3 pounds brown sugar, 

and chopped fine, 3 quarts eider, 

Twice as much chopped 1 quart N. 0. molasses, 

apple as beef, 1 quart brandy, 

2 pounds suet, chopped 1 cup vinegar, 
fine, i cup cinnamon, 

4 pounds raisins, i cup each cloves and 

4 pounds currants, allspice, 

1 pound citron, 3 nutmegs. 

Mix all the ingredients together and cook until they 
are well scalded. Put in fruit jars for winter use. 

NELLIE'S SQUASH PIE 

1 coffee cup granulated ^ teaspoonful ginger, 
sugar, i teaspoonful ground cloves, 

3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 cups cream, (level), 

1 teacup cooked squash, Pinch salt put in squash, 
J nutmeg. 

Beat eggs and sugar together and add spices ; mix 
squash and cream and put through a strainer into the 
eggs and sugar and beat thoroughly at least five minutes, 
then pour immediately on to the crust and bake in a 
moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour. 

ALMOND C^REAM PIE 

1 pint of rich milk, | pound blanched almonds 
Yolks of 2 eggs, chopped fine. 

^ cup of sugar, Vanilla or almond flavoring. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Heat the milk in double ])oiler; then add eggs, sugar, 
flour and a little salt, well beaten together with a little 
cold milk. Stir briskly until thick ; then add almonds and 
flavoring. Bake a rich pie crust separately and fill with 
the mixture. Beat the whites of tAVO eggs with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, spread over pie and brown slightly. 

— 147 — 



\ 



— 148 — 



149 — 



— 150 — 



FRITTERS 



PINEAPPLE 

^ can pineapple (sliced), |- teaspoonful baking 
i egg, powder, 

J cup milk, i teaspoonful salt, 

1 cup flour, 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Beat egg and milk together, put baking powder in 
flour, stir all together. Dip pineapple in batter and fry in 
deep lard. To be eaten with plain pineapple or claret 
pineapple sauce. 

The above batter will be good for any kind of fritters 
— apple, orange or banana. 



151 



- 152 



153 



— 154 



PUDDINGS 



LEMON MERINGUE 

1 coffee cup sugar, 1^ pints boiling water, 

Yolks of three eggs, 2^ tablespoonfuls corn- 

Juice of three lemons, starch, 

• Pinch of salt. 

Wet the cornstarch in a little cold water, add boiling 
water and stir until thoroughly mixed ; while it is cooling 
beat the eggs and sugar together, add the lemon juice and 
salt and put with the cornstarch. Pour into cups and bake 
twenty minutes. Serve with cream. 



PRUNE SOUFFLE 

1 pound French prunes, 1 cup powdered sugar, 

AAHiites of 6 eggs. 

Cook the prunes until tender, remove the stones and 
put through riceror sieve, add the sugar and then the 
whites of the eggs beaten to stiff froth. Bake twenty min- 
utes and serve at once with cream. Rinse the dish with 
cold water before putting the pudding in. 



FIG PUDDING 



pound chopped figs, ^ cup sweet milk, 

pint bread crumbs, 2 eggs (beaten separately 



1 cup flour, 1 teaspoonful baking 

1 cup sugar, powder, 

J cup suet (chopped fine), | teaspoonful ginger. 

Beat the 3^olks of the eggs and the sugar together, add 
the milk; sift the baking powder with the flour and mix 
the suet with it ; put the bread crumbs with the eggs, sugar 
and milk, then the flour and suet, ginger, figs, and last the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Steam three 
hours. 

— 155 — 



PUDDINGS 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

1 cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls (scant) 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 4 eggs (beaten separately). 

Boil the milk and add the butter and flour stirred to- 
gether to a cream, cook eight minutes, stirring constantly. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together and add to 
the cooked mixture and set aside to cool. When cold add 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a 
buttered dish and bake twenty minutes. Serve with cream. 



SPONGE PUDDING 

2 cups sweet milk, Whites of 3 eggs. 

Yolks of 5 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls flour, 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the flour with one cup of milk, add beaten yolks, 
salt and then the other cup of milk; beat the Avhites to a 
stiff froth and put in last. Pour in buttered dish and bake 
in moderate oven. Serve with lemon sauce made as fol- 
lows : 



LEMON SAUCE 

1 cup sugar. Whites of 2 eggs, 

1 cup boiling milk. Juice of 1 lemon. 

Beat the eggs and add the sugar, pour the boiling milk 
over them, stir in the lemon juice just before serving. 



— 156 



PUDDINGS 



PLUM PUDDING 

1-| ciip.s of raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup citron, 1^ cups bread-crumbs 

1 cup suet, chopped fine, rolled fine. 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 cup milk, I teaspoon cloves. 

2 eggs, I teaspoon allspice. 

Salt and grated rind of lemon. Boil five hours. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

3 pints milk, 3 eggs, 

3 tablespoonfuls corn 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

meal, ^ teaspoonful cloves, 

I tablespoonful butter, J teaspoonful allspice, 

^ cup brown sugar, J teaspoonful nutmeg, 

I cup N. 0. molasses, -J teaspoonful salt. 

Boil one pint of the milk and thicken with the corn 
meal, add salt, butter, spices, sugar, beaten eggs and mo- 
lasses in the order named and mix well together, then 
stir in one quart cold milk. Bake one and one-half hours, 
when half done stir again and then let it brown. Cover 
with meringue, brown and serve with cream. 

BATTER PUDDING WITH FIGS 

1 can preserved figs, ^ cup milk, 

^ cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 cup flour (measured 1 teaspoonful baking 

after sifting), powder, 

1 egg. 
Beat butter and sugar together, then add the beaten 
yolk of egg, then milk, then flour with the baking powder 
mixed well through it, and lastly the white of egg beaten 
stiff. Butter a deep dish, put the figs in the bottom, pour 
the batter over and steam three-fourths of an hour. Serve 
with cream. Any canned fruit may be used. 

— 157 — 



PUDDINGS 



FIG DESSERT 

One poiuul figs, open and fill with chopped nuts, cover 
with boiling water, cook until tender. Five minutes be- 
fore removing from the fire add one-third cup of sugar and 
the juice of half a lemon. Serve with sweetened whipped 
cream. 

SAWDUST OR SUET PUDDING 

1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup milk, 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup raisins, 

3^ cups flour, 1 teaspoonful soda, 

^ cup currants, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 
Mix together like fig pudding. Steam three and one- 
half hours. Serve with sauce. 

SUET PUDDING 

1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup currants, 

1 cup chopped crackers, 2 eggs, 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, 

1 cup sweet milk, ^ teaspoonful cinnamon, 

1 cup flour, I teaspoonful salt, 

1 cup raisins, A little nutmeg. 
Steam three or four hours. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pint cake crumbs, 5 tablespoonfuls grated 

1 pint milk, Baker's chocolate, 

3 eggs, beaten separately, ^ cup sugar. 

Melt the chocolate and add to the milk and sugar, 
heat to the boiling ])()i?it and pour the mixture over the 
well beaten yolks, then add the cake (M-Tunl)s and 1)ake half 
an hour. When done cover with meringue made of the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff with half cup of sugar. Set 
in llic o\(Mi to ])rown. 

— 158 — 



PUDDINGS 

SNOW PUDDING 

J box gelatine, dissolved 3 eggs, whites only, 
in 1 pint hot water. Juice of 1 lemon, 

2 cups sugar. 

Add sugar and lemon juice to dissolved gelatine. 
When it is cool and begins to thicken add the whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all until thick and like 
snow, put in a mould and set on ice until time to serve. 
Serve with soft custard. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW 

1^ cups grated pineapple, ^ cup. water, 

j cup sugar. 

Simmer all together for 15 minutes, then add one- 
quarter box gelatine soaked in one-quarter cup of cold 
water; strain. 

Set in ice water and stir constantly until it begins to 
set, then add the juice of half a lemon and the whites of 
two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; turn into a mould and set 
on ice until time to serve. Serve with sweetened whipped 
cream. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

1 pint milk. Pinch of salt, 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, A little grated lemon rind, 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 
Serve very cold. 

BAKED CUSTAED 

1 pint milk, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla. 

Boil milk first, put it in the baking dish, stir in yolks 
and sugar beaten light, then vanilla, lastly whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff; stir all well together. Bake tAventy minutes 
in moderate oven in pan of water. 

— 159 — 



PUDDINGS 



EAISIN PUFFS 

2 cups fiour, 1 cup seeded raisins 

1 cup water, (chopped fine), 

8 teaspoonfuls baking 2 tablespoonfnls melted 

powder, butter, 

2 tablespoonfnls sugar, 2 eggs. 

Steamed one-half hour in buttered cups or moulds. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 

^ cup sugar, ^ teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put the sugar in a saucepan and melt it without 
water until it is brown, but not burned ; add the milk 
and let it come to a boil, then take from the stove and 
add the Avell-beaten eggs. Pour into a pudding dish, 
grate a little nutmeg over the top and put into the oven 
in a pan of Avater. Bake thirty minutes. 

MAPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

1 (juart milk, 3 tablespoonfnls minute 

1 cup maple syrup, tapioca, 

3 tablespoonfnls cornmeal, i- teaspoonful salt, 

Butter size of a walnut. 

Put the milk in a double-boiler; when warm, slowly 
add the corn meal and tapioca, stirring all the time to 
avoid lumps, add salt and boil until the tapioca is tender 
and clear. Remove from the fire and add the maple 
syrup ; turn into a buttered pan and allow to stand ten 
minutes. Turn one-half cup of top milk or the contents 
of one small can of evaporated cream over the top. Bake 
slowly one and one-half hours. Serve with cream. Any 
syrup may be substituted for the maple. 

— 160 — 



PUDDINGS 



APPLE BATTER PUDDING . 

1 cup milk, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls 

J cup sugar, baking powder, 

Butter size of an egg, 1 egg. 

Sift baking powder in flour. Butter a baking dish 
and fill with six large quartered apples, or smaller pieces 
if preferred; sprinkle well with sugar and a little salt 
and steam in oven in covered dish; when cooked, pour 
over the batter while apples are hot; bake a fine brown. 
Serve with whipped cream, or foamy sauce, without white 
of egg. Flavor with Dr. Price's vanilla. 



DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped dates, 1 cup English walnuts, 

2 tablespoonfuls bread 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
crumbs, der. 

3 eggs, well beaten, 

Bake thirty to forty minutes, and serve with whipped 
cream. Bake in individual or one large mould. 



RICE PUDDING 

1 quart milk, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of 

J teaspoonful salt, well washed rice. 

Fill the dish with milk, add rice ; let it cook in oven 
for half an hour, stirring it two or three times; take out 
and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a scant teaspoonful 
of vanilla, half cup of stoned raisins, and half teaspoonful 
of grated nutmeg; cook slowly two hours; as the milk 
boils dowm, lift the skim off and add more hot milk. The 
pudding should be creamy, and is made so by slow cook- 
ing and plenty of milk. 



(G) 



161 



PUDDINGS 



BROWN BETTY 

^ cup melted butter, 1 quart sliced apples, 

1 pint sifted bread crumbs, ^ cup cold water, 
J teaspoonful of cinnamon, ^ cup sugar. 

Stir the butter into the bread crumbs; into a but- 
tered baking dish put a layer of sliced apples, sprinkle 
with the cinnamon and sugar, and continue until the 
materials are used, having the last layer of crumbs; if 
the apples are juicy use less Avater. Bake about one hour. 
Serve with cream. 



— 162 — 



— 163 — 



164 



— 165 — 



166 — 



PUDDING SAUCES 



HARD SAUCE 

1 even teacup pulverized 1^ tablespoonfuls of butter, 
sugar, ^ grated nutmeg. 

Cream butter and sugar very light, put in nutmeg — 
serve. 



CREAMY HARD SAUCE 

1 teacup pulverized sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls milk, 
1 heaping tablespoonful 2 tablespoonfuls rum or 
butter, brandy, 

1 egg, beaten separately. 

Cream butter and sugar together, very light, add 
slov^ly yolk of egg and milk beaten together ; when ready 
to serve put in brandy, and lastly whites of eggs beaten 
stiff. 



PLAIN SAUCE 

1 cup sugar, 1 teacup of boiling water, 

^ cup butter (creamed), 4 tablespoonfuls brandy, 
3 yolks of eggs (beaten with above). 

Pour water over the last thing before serving. 



FRUIT SYRUP AND RUM SAUCE 

1 pint currant, cherry or J pint sugar, 
raspberry juice boiled f cup of rum. 
with 

Boil the juice and sugar to a syrup, when cold add 
the rum. Serve with plain ice cream or mousse. Can 
be kept in Mason jars for winter use. 

— 167— 



PUDDING SAUCES 



RUM SAUCE FOR ICE (REAM OR MOUSSE 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, 

^ cup Jamaica rum. 

Boil sugar and water to a clear, thick syrup, then 
add rum when cold. 



CLARET AND PINEAPPLE SAUCE 

1 cup sugar, 2 whites of eggs, 

^ cup butter (creamed), 1 cup pineapple juice, 

8 yolks of eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls claret wine. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add yolks of eggs, 
well beaten, then pour over pineapple juice, boiling hot 
with the wine, keep stirring all the time; put beaten 
whites of eggs on top. 



FOAMY SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

1 white of egg, 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Beat sugar, butter and flour together to a cream, add 
nine tablespoonfuls l)()iling water. Iioil until thick and 
clear; add two tablespoonfuls of wine to the a))ove ; lastly 
white of egg, beaten stiff. Serve hot. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Take about one-fifth of a pound of chocolate with 
one pint of milk, sweeten and let boil. Four yolks of 
eggs, well-beaten with a little cold milk, in a separate 
bowl. When chocolate is ])oiling put the eggs in and 
heat it up again, but do not let it boil; add a little essence 
of vanilla and serve with vanilla ice cream. 

— 168 — 



— 169 



170 — 



171 — 



172 



BEVERAGES 



MARTINI COCKTAIL 

Tom Gin, 3 parts, A dash of Orange Bitters 

Italian Vermouth, 1 part, to each glass. 

The above is shaken np with finely-cracked ice. This 
cools and dilutes the mixture. The cocktail may be made 
milder by the addition of a little water; or, better, orange 
juice. Gordon Gin and French Vermouth may be used if 
a drier cocktail is desired. Pour through a strainer l)efore 
serving. 

BRONX COCKTAIL NO. 1 

4 jigger of Gordon Gin, | jigger Italian Vermouth, 

I jigger French Vermouth, 1 jigger orange juice. 

Put a lump of ice in a shaker, pour the liquids over 
it, shake well and serve in a cocktail glass. 



BRONX COCKTAIL NO. 2 

1 jigger of Gordon Gin, I jigger of Italian 
.^5 jigger of French Vermouth, 

Vermouth, I large slice of orange. 

Prepare as in foregoing recipe. 

DRY STATE LOGANBERRY COCKTAIL 

Use folloAving proportions: 
J loganberry juice, 
\ ginger ale and the juice of ^ lime. 

Shake well, with a lump of ice, and serve in cocktail 
glasses. 

DRY STATE GRAPE-JUICE COCKTAIL 

2 jiggers of grape juice, I jigger of orange juice. 
^ jigger of lemon juice. 

Stir together, pour over a glass of cracked ice, and 
serve. 

— 173 — 



BEVERAGES 



MARYLAND EGG NOG 

1 gallon milk, 15 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

1 dozen eggs, 1 pint Jamaica rum, 

1 pint brandy, 1' grated nutmeg. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar until light, add 
the brandy and rum, stirring constantly, nutmeg, then 
milk (or part cream), and cover the well-beaten whites 
of the eggs. 

HOT SCOTCH 

1 lump sugar. Thin rind or peel of lemon, 

^ glass water, ^ glass Scotch whisky, 

Brew 10 minutes on stove. 



RUM PUNCH— HOT 
For one glass. 

2 tablespoonfuls rum, 2 lumps sugar, 2 ozs. for 

1 thick slice lemon, 4 tablespoonfuls Avater. 

Boil these so as to have the punch hot and rum 
''melloAV," squeeze the lemon with a spoon to get out 
juice, and remove the slice at once after boiling; if left 
in it will make the punch bitter. 

Same recipe will be correct for Arrac Punch. Avoid 
getting in too much lemon. 



PUNCH— DRY 

1 quart champagne, 1 quart sweet Jamaica rum, 

1 quart claret, 1 claret glass kummel, 

3 quarts Carlsbad ApoUi- 1 claret glass kirschwasser, 

naris w^ater, f claret glass lemon juice, 

1 pint brandy, 6 lumps sugar. 

Use ice and fruits to decorate. 

— 174 — 



BEVERAGES 



PUNCH— CHAMPAGNE 



pound sugar or rock 3 wineglasses rum, 

candy, 1 bottle champagne (Calif.), 

large cup strong black 2 oranges (juice only), 

tea (liquid), 3 lemons, 1 large lump ice. 
wineglasses brandy, 



PUNCH— SWEET 

2 dozen lemons, 1 quart rum. 

Lemonade made sweet and 1 glass sherry, or more if 
strong, desired, 

1 pint brandy or whisky. 

Use ice and fruit to decorate. 
Will serve sixteen people. 



PUNCH— EEGENT 

1 quart whisky, 1 quart champagne, 

1 quart rum, 1 quart water, 

1 quart tea, ^ dozen lemons, juice, 

1 pound sugar. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, put in lemon juice, 
then the other ingredients. Put a large lump of ice in 
bowl with bunch of grapes on top, pour the punch over it. 



FISH HOUSE PUNCH 

1 quart Jamaica rum, 1 pint lemon juice, 

1 quart water, 2 pounds sugar, 

1 pint brandy, 4 pounds ice. 

Will make about a gallon. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the lemon juice, 
then the other ingredients, and lastly the ice. 

— 175— . 



BEVERAGES 



MULLED WINE 

Put in porcelain lined kettle. One pint boiling watei- 
with three sticks of cinnamon, simmer fifteen minutes. 

Put in one quart claret and one and one-half cups 
sugar. 

Ileat boilinpr hot, strain and drink hot. 



POUSSE CAFE 

j sherry glass maraschino, J glass chartreuse, 
i sherry glass curagoa, i sherry glass cognac. 

Put in glass in order named. 



MINT JULEP 

Put mint in bottom of shaker Avith a lump of ice. 

Dissolve one lump or one teaspoonful sugar for each 
person in a little Avater and put with mint and ice, add 
sherry glass of whisky or brandy and shake the w^hole 
thoroughly. 

Put fine cracked ice in glass and pour the mixture 
over it, put a sprig of mint in the top of the glass. Drink 
through a straw. 



SAUTERNE CUP 

1 quart sauterne, 1 cocktail glass of brandy. 

Juice of four lemons, J cocktail glass of mara- 

1 teaspoonful of bitters, schino. 

Put on ice until ready to serve, then add a syphon 
of soda and some cherries nnd pineapple. Sweeten to 
taste witli wliite syrup. 

— 176 — 



BEVERAGES 



MOSELLE CUP 

1 quart Braunberger, 1 slice of cucumber peel, 

1 liqueur glass of brandy, 1 pint Apollinaris water, 
Juice of one orange. Juice of one lemon, 

No sugar unless desired. 



HOW TO MAKE COFFEE 

I Java, i Mocha. 

Browned and ground ; 1 tablespoonful coffee for each 
cup of coffee. 1 cupful of boiling water to each person. 
% ^SS beaten together. Stir coffee and egg together 
with one cup of cold water, then pour on boiling Avater 
and boil ten minutes after it begins to boil; put on back 
of stove five minutes or so, to let it settle. Make twenty 
minutes before breakfast is served. 



SIMPLE PUNCH 

Juice of 6 oranges, 1 pint sugar, ^ pint water. 

Juice of 6 lemons, made into a syrup, 

1 doz. sprigs of mint, put 2 quarts domestic cham- 
in syrup while hot and pagne, 

stand for three hours, 1 quart lemon ice. 

Peel of 1 cucumber. 

Put orange and lemon juice, mint, syrup, and cucum- 
ber in a boAvl for two hours, then strain ; pour over lemon 
ice and lastly put in champagne before serving. Pour 
all over large piece of ice. Garnish pitcher with slices 
of orange and maraschino cherries and put a bunch of 
mint in mouth of pitcher so punch will pass over each 
time. This Avill make six quarts of punch if oranges and 
lemons are juicy. Will serve seven people to the quart 
in champagne glasses. 

— 177 — 



BEVERAGES 

AVITITE WINE CUP 

2J quarts white wine, Sliced fruit all through, 

1 quart sparkling water, ^ cup fresh mint syrup. 
^ pint lemon sherbet, 

Twenty-one glasses for luncheon. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH 

1 case Red Seal cham- 1 gallon plain water sherbet, 

pagne, or lemon sherbet if desired. 

For ''cup" at dinner, for one hundred people. Two 
tablespoonfuls of rum for each four bottles of champagne 
adds to the flavor of the punch. 

CLARET PUNCH 

1 pony brandy, 1 pony lemon juice, 

1 pony cura^'oa, 3 or 4 lumps sugar, 

to 

1 quart claret, 

1 quart Manitou Avater. 

SWISS-ESS 

1 jigger white absinthe. White of 1 egg, 
1 teaspoonful powdered | small glass of cream, 

sugar, Shaker full of fine ice. 

Shake a long time until well mixed and very cold. 

PUNCH— DRY 

Use ice and fruits to decorate like Regent Punch. 

— 178 — 



BEVERAGES 



PUNCH 



Put a brick of lemon ice into punch bowl and pour 
over it sparkling Moselle. 



CAFE BRULE 

2 tablespoonfuls of strong 1 piece of stick cinnamon, 

coffee, 2 inches long. 

1 piece of orange peel, 1 lump of sugar, 

1 piece of lemon peel, 1 liqueur glass of brandy. 
4 whole cloves, 

Put all the ingredients together in a bowl and touch 
with a lighted match; let it burn until all the alcohol is 
consumed, then strain into after-dinner coft'ee cup. Re- 
peat the recipe for each person. 



T^IEXICAN CHOCOLATE 

1 ounce chocolate to a cup, 1 egg to a cup. 
1 cup milk to a cup. 

Pound chocolate — counting for each cup as above — 
and put it in the milk. Keep stirring. Put in eggs, either 
whole or beaten, when chocolate and milk are warm. Stir 
and beat constantly till it comes to a boil. Sweeten to 
taste. 



RASPBERRY YINECxAR 

Place red raspberries in a stone jar and cover with 
good cider vinegar. Let stand over night. Next morning 
strain, and to one pint of juice add one pint sugar. Boil 
ten minues and bottle while hot. 

— 179 — 



180 — 



— 181 



BEVERAGES 



CURRANT AND RASPBERRY SIIRTB 

4 (HuH'ts ripe cui'raiits, 4 ])()iin(ls suuar. 

8 quarts red rasp])ei'ries. 1 ((uart bcsl hi'andy. 

Pound the i'rnit in a stone jar or Avide-monthed ei'ock. 
with a wooden niashei'. Squeeze out the juices. Boil hard 
for ten minutes in a porcelain kettle, with sugar. (Bring 
to the boil quickly, as slow heating and l)oiling' has a 
tendency to darken all acids.) Bottle while hot. 



— 182 



PICKLES 



CUCUMBERS 

Put pickles into strong brine, with one large piece 
alum, twenty-four hours. Take out, wash and cover with 
two-thirds vinegar and one-third water, a little sugar 
(handful), peppers, cinnamon and cloves. Put them in a 
kettle on back of stove with another piece of alum, and 
let simmer, not boil, for two or three hours. Pour off that 
vinegar and put on fresh. 

To one gallon of vinegar, three pounds of sugar, 
one-half cup each of celery seed and cloves, two bay 
leaves, twelve small red peppers, four sticks cinnamon. 
Boil all together to a syrup and pour over pickles ; it 
needs enough vinegar to cover them. Put a piece of alum 
in last vinegar, it keeps the pickles brittle, and don't 
be afraid to use it as directed. Three pounds of tiny 
white onions added to 500 pickles are very nice put in 
uncooked. 



OIL CUCUMBER PICKLES 

2 dozen slender cucumbers, 1 cup salt, 

2 cups olive oil, 1 quart small pickling 

l cup wdiite mustard seed, onions, 

I cup celery seed, A little cayenne pepper, 

1 cup vinegar, l cup whole black pepper. 

Peel and slice cucumbers and onions thin; cover with 
salt for four hours. Wash well with cold water, then 
pour over oil and vinegar with spices stirred in and mix 
thoroughly. Bottle cold with a little clear vinegar on 
top of each bottle. Serve with fish. 



183 



PICKLES 



TOMATO SOYE 

10 pounds of green toma- 6 sticks cinnamon, 

toes, :f cup cloves, 

5 pounds old onions, small, ^ cup mace, 

4 green peppers, ^ cup little red peppers, 

3 pounds coarse salt, ^ cup celery seed, 

1 gallon vinegar, | cup white mustard seed. 
3 pounds sugar, 

Slice tomatoes vei'y thin, also onions — put in crock — 
for twenty-four hours — first, layer of onions, then layer 
of tomatoes, then salt ; until crock is full — salt on top. 
When ready to fix, wash thoroughly in cold water, then 
boil until they look transparent, pour off water — cover 
with the syrup made of the vinegar, sugar and spices 
boiled together — cook one hour in the syrup — put away 
in a crock or Mason jars. It is better to stand for 2 
months before using. 



UNCOOKED PICKLES 

1 peek ripe red tomatoes, 1 ounce white niustard 

2 cups chopped celery, seed, 

2 cups chopped onions, 3 pints vinegar, 

4 red peppers, 2 cups brown sugar, 

1 teaspoonful ground cloves, 2 cups salt. 

Cut the tomatoes in pieces and sprinkle the two cups 
of salt over them, for one night; in the morning drain 
through a colander and press all the water out of them. 
Mix all the ingredients together with three pints good 
vinegar, put in a crock — ready for use in a month. 

GKEEN I^EPPERS FOR WINTER USE 

Ctit {111 opening in side of each pepper about an inch 
long. ])n1 in brine for future use. 

— 184 — 



PICKLES 



TO MAKE BRINE 

Take enough water to cover peppers, pickles, etc., add 
enough salt to make the brine strong enough to hold an 
egg ; also a handful of powdered alum to keep the pickles 
crisp. 

PICCALILLI 

Chop fine each of the following: 

2 pounds green tomatoes, 1 pound onions, 
1 head cabbage, 1 quart, 6 stalks celery. 
4 green peppers. 

Two cups salt put through it and left over night, 
wash thoroughly next day. Make syrup — three quarts 
vinegar, two pounds sugar, one-fourth cup celery seed, 
one-fourth cup mustard seed, four sticks of cinnamon, 
whole pepper corns and a little whole allspice. Cook 
vinegar and sugar together Avith spices for one and one- 
half hours, then pour over the chopped pickle and put 
away for two months in a crock. 

PICKLED PEACHES 

7 pounds of peaches, 1 quart cider vinegar, 

3^ pounds granulated 1 ounce whole cloves, 

sugar, 4 sticks cinnamon. 

Peel peaches, weigh, then put four cloves in each 
peach ; make syrup of sugar and vinegar with cinnamon. 
Boil ten minutes, put in peaches, boil until tender enough 
to stick with a straw. When peaches are all cooked, put in 
Mason jars or a crock. Boil the syrup until quite thick — 
about twenty minutes more — and pour over the peaches. 
Repeat for every seven pounds of fruit. 

White and red cherries and blue plums are delicious 
made in the same way. 

— 185 — 



PICKLES 



WATERMELON PICKLES 

[^ pounds watermelon Alum, size of a walnut, 

rind, 1 tablespoonful whole cloves 

If pounds granulated 4 sticks cinnamon broken in 

beet sugar, small pieces. 

1 pint white wdne vinegar, 

Remove all the green and pink from the melon rinds 
and cut in one inch cubes. Soak twenty-four hours in 
strong brine to which a piece of alum the size of a walnut 
has been added. Drain and boil until tender and brittle in 
fresh water with a little alum in it, pour off and boil 
up once more, quickly, in fresh water with a little alum. 
IMake a syrup wnth the vinegar, sugar; add alum, cinna- 
mon and cloves. Drain all the water from the melon 
rinds and boil them slowly in the syrup until very clear 
and rich. 

If liked, a few raisins may be boiled in the syrup with 
the rinds, or omit raisins and put a few maraschino cher- 
ries in each bottle when putting the pickle away. 



CHILI SAUCE 

12 large ripe tom'atoes, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 

2 ripe or three green pep- 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

pers, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 

2 onions, 2 cupfuls cider vinegar. 

Cook slowly three or four hours. If you cannot get 
fresh tomatoes and peppers, you may use two quarts of 
canned tomatoes and one even tablespoonful of ground 
red pepper. 



186 — 



PICKLES 



MANILA SAUCE 

4 quarts canned tomatoes, ^ teaspoonful powdered 

6 green peppers, cloves, 

4 large onions, ^ teaspoonful powdered 

5 cloves garlic, mace, 

2 bottles horseradish, 2 bay leaves, 

2 cups tarragon vinegar, 2 pieces mace, 

1 teaspoonful salt, 12 whole cloves. 

I teaspoonful white pepper, 

Boil tomatoes with salt, pepper and spices until thick, 
strain through a colander. 

Chop peppers, onions and garlic as fine as possible. 

Mix tomatoes, peppers, onions, garlic and horseradish 
together and cook slowly, not boil, for an hour on back of 
stove. Bottle hot. Serve with oysters and cold meats. 



187 — 



188 



189 — 



— 190 



PRESERVES 



'^SUNLIGHT" STEAAVBERRIES 

To 1 pint of choice straw- 1 pint of sugar, 
berries, i pint of water. 

Make syrup of sugar and water. When it boils two 
minutes put in the fruit. Let it boil ten minutes. Pour out 
on a platter, let it stand in the sun until the syrup is like 
soft jelly. Make only a pint at a time. Use the same 
formula for currants. 



''SUNLIGHT" SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

Select large gooseberries, wash and pick off the stems 
and blossoms. For one quart of gooseberries make a syrup 
of one-half pint of vinegar and one quart of granu- 
lated sugar; add a few whole cloves and a stick 
of Ceylon cinnamon and boil five minutes. Drop in the 
gooseberries and boil ten minutes, or until the gooseberries 
puff out ; pour on a platter and let them stand in the sun 
until the syrup is heavy on a spoon. Make only one quart 
at a time. 

''SUNLIGHT" RASPBERRIES 

For one quart of raspberries use one and one-half 
pints of granulated sugar and one-half pint of water. Make 
a syrup of the sugar and water, boil five minutes, add 
the fruit and boil ten minutes longer. Pour on a platter 
and let them stand in the sun until the syrup is like soft 
jelly. 



— 191 - 



PRESERVES 



BRANDY PEACHES 

7 pounds peaches, 2 cups water, or enough to 

3J pounds sugar, melt sugar, 

1 pint French brandy. 

Make syrup of sugar and water, boil ten minutes, peel 
peaches, Aveigh, cook in syrup until tender, put fruit in 
Kerr Economy jars, boil down syrup until very rich, re- 
move from fire, and then put in brandy, and bottle. If 
3'ou don't take it from the heat the fumes are often set 
on fire by putting brandy in hot syrups. 

Cherries are very fine prepared in the same way. 



BRANDY PEACHES WITHOUT BRANDY 

In peach season fill a j\lason jar with clingstone 
peaches, carefully selected and pared. Then fill in all 
spaces in the jar with granulated sugar. ScrcAv on the 
top of the jar very tight, and bury three feet in the 
ground and leave there for six months. The peaches Avill 
then be ready for use; they will be covered Avith most 
delicious brandy and ])e far richer and better flavored 
tliMn when preserved in the usual way. 



NOTES 

All jams are made, pound of sugar for pound of fruit. 

Preserves, one-half of sugar for pound of fruit. 

Jellies are made, pint of su^ar for pint of juice, 
except Concord grape jelly, which requires less sugar. 

Spiced fruits are made like the preserves recipe, 
with the addition of ground cinnamon and cloves to 
taste, always half as much cloves as cinnamon. 



— 192 



PRESERVES 



CRANBERRY JELLY 

Cook two quarts of cranberries in fonr cups of water 
until tender. Strain through colander and measure; add 
sugar, cup for cup, and boil twelve minutes. Pour into 
a mold that has l)een dipped in cold water first. 



MINT JELLY 

Wash, core and quarter thirty green .iuicy apples. 
Cook until soft in enough water to nearly cover them. 
Strain through jelly bag and add sugar (heated before 
using), pint for pint if the apples ar^ very sour, if not, 
about three-fourths as much sugar as juice. 

Pick the leaves from three dozen stems of fresh mint, 
wash and tie in a cheese-cloth or thin muslin bag, put into 
the apple juice and boil until the leaves turn brown ; re- 
move and boil the juice until it drops heavy from spoon. 
Take from fire and add Dr. Price's leaf green coloring 
until it is the desired shade, and pour into the glasses. 
If not strong enough of mint, put in a little white Creme 
de Menthe. Will make about thirteen glasses of jelly. 



PEACH MARMALADE 

8 pounds peaches (weigh H ]>()unds sugar, 
after lieing peeled and 1 lemon, 
stoned). 

Slice peaches into small pieces, shred lemon very fine, 
place in porcelain kettle, cover with the sugar and let 
stand over night. The next morning strain through a 
colander, place the juice on the stove and boil until it is 
reduced about one-third, skimming all the time, mash 
the peaches very fine and add to the juice while boiling 
hot, stirring constantly to keep from burning, using a 
wooden spoon; seal while boiling hot in Kerr's Economy 
jars. 

(7) _193_ 



PRESERVES 



CITRUS FRUIT MARMALADE 

1 orange. 1 lemon. 

1 grape-fruit, 

Cut in thin strips and remove all the core and white 
parts. Add three times as much water as there is fruit 
and let it stand over night. In the morning boil ten min- 
utes only, and let it stand another night. Next morning 
add as much sugar (pint for pint) as juice and pulp and 
l)oil rapidly until it jellies. Will make about twelve 
glasses. 

APRICOT ]\1ARMALADE 

8 lbs. very ripe fruit (after 4 lbs. sugar, 
stones have been taken 
out), 

Wash and cut fruit in small pieces (do not peel). 
Place sugar and enough Avater to melt it (little as 
possible) on stove; when it is boiling hot add w^ell 
mashed fruit, stirring and skimming constantlj^ cook 
until quite heavy; seal while hot in Kerr Economy jars. 

FRUIT ASPIC JELLY 

i box Knox's gelatine 1 lemon, juice and grated 

soaked in 1 cup cold rind, 

water, ^^ cup pineapple juice, 

1 orange, juice and J '2 cups sugar, 

grated rind, 2 cups boiling water. 

Boil all together and strain through a cheese-cloth 
bag; add small cubes of pineapple, green grapes peeled 
and cut in half, pecans or blanched almonds, before pour- 
ing the jelly into the mould. Pour in small moulds, pre- 
viously dipped in cold water; serve on a leaf of lettuce 
with a border of cucumbers or celery cut in very small 
pieces, mixed with mayonnaise dressing. 

— 194 - 



PRESERVES 



CURRANT JELLY 



Wash fruit, place on stove without any water, stir 
constantly until the juice is well extracted, strain, 
measure, return to stove and boil ten minutes ; add sugar, 
pint for pint, and cook until it jellies. 



PLUM JELLY 

Wash fruit, place on stove with a little water and 
cook until well done, strain, measure, return to stove and 
boil fifteen minutes ; add sugar, pint for pint, and cook 
until it jellies. 



PLUM PRESERVES 

6 lbs. plums, 3 lbs. sugar. 

Wash, remove seeds and weigh. Put in a preserving 
kettle Avith sugar, no water; place on stove and stir 
constantly, using a wooden spoon. Bottle while hot in 
Kerr Economy jars. 



BLACKBERRY JAM 

6 lbs. berries, 6 lbs. sugar. 

Wash and weigh the berries, put in a preserving 
kettle with half pint of w^ater, cook until soft enough to 
mash, then add sugar and cook until it drops heavy from 
the spoon. Bottle while boiling hot in Kerr Economy jars. 

— 195 — 



PRESERVES 



LOGANBERRY JAM 
Made in the same manner as blackberries. 



LOGANBERRIES FOR PIES 

Use one-half the amount of sugar as for jam ; seal 
when boiling hot. 



RASPBERRY JAM 

4 lbs. berries, 3 lbs. sugar. 

Wash and weigh the berries, put in a preserving 
kettle with one-half pint water, cook until they are soft 
enough to mash ; add sugar and cook until they drop 
heavy from the spoon, stirring constantly. Bottle hot in 
Kerr Economy jars. 



— 196 — 



197 — 



— 198 — 



SAUCES 

For Meats, Fish, Etc. 



CUMBERLAND SAUCE 

1 pint of brown stock, 1 tablespoonfnl of flour, 

1 cup orange juice and J teaspoonful "Kitchen 

finely-shredded rind of Bouquet." 

the orange, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook shredded orange rind in a little water until 
tender. Thicken the stock and orange water with the 
flour, then add the coloring, then the rind, and lastly, the 
orange juice. To be served with duck, squab, filet of beef. 
Will serve six people. 



DRAWN BUTTER 

1 heaping tablespoonfnl 1 tablespoonfnl flour, 

butter, 1 cup boiling water. 

Melt butter over teakettle, put in flour, stir smooth, 
add water slowly until well cooked. Delicious for fish 
with sliced hard boiled egg all through it. 



CAPER SAUCE 

Is made the same as the above recipe with the addi- 
tion of one-half a cup of capers. 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

Make a white sauce with white stock or equal parts 
of stock and milk. Fry a slice of onion and a slice of 
carrot in the butter before the flour is added. Strain 
before serving. 

— 199 — 



SAUCES 



HOLLANDATSE SAUCE 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 4 eggs, yolks, well beaten. 
Butter size of an egg, J teaspoonful salt, 

I white pepper. 

Put vinegar in granite bowl over teakettle, heat well, 
add butter, pepper and salt; let it cool a while, then add 
yolks of eggs, beaten light; stir all the time, until it 
becomes thick like cream. Make just before using. 

Bearnaise Sauce is made the same as the above, 
using tarragon vinegar instead of plain vinegar, ana add- 
ing a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

DTTTCH SAUCE 

J teacupful butter, J teaspoonful salt. 

Juice of half a lemon. -J cup of boiling white stock. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, A little cayenne pepper. 

Beat the butter to a cream and add the yolks, one 
at a time, the lemon juice, pepper and salt. Place the 
bowl in which these are mixed in a saucepan of boiling 
water, beat with an egg-beater until it begins to thicken, 
then add the l)oili ng water, beating all the time. When 
like soft custard it is done. 



BREAD SAUCE 

1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful butter, 

1 cup fine bread crumbs. ^ teaspoonful salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped i saltspoonful pepper, 
onion, 

Boil the fine hrcnd (•i'unil)s and onion in the milk 
fifteen minutes, add the butter, salt and pepper. Fry two- 
thirds of a cupful of coarse bread crumbs in one table- 
spoonful of buttei- until brown. Pour the sauce around 
roast duck and sprinldc the ])rown ciMunbs over all. 

— 200 — 



SAUCES 

WHITE CREAM SAUCE 

J cup butter, 1 pint cream, 

1 large tablespoonful flour. 

Melt butter and stir flour in gradually, then add 
cream slowly, boil until smooth and thick. A well beaten 
yolk of egg may be added just before serving. Season to 
taste. Serve with Timbale. 

PLAIN WHITE SAUCE 

1 pint milk, 1^ tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, ^ teaspoonful salt. 

Heat the milk, melt the butter and add the flour and 
salt, stirring until smooth, then add it to the hot milk 
and stir until it thickens. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Place on the stove 10 ripe tomatoes, 1 onion, 3 sprigs 
of parsley, i/t teaspoonful white pepper, 1 teaspoonful 
salt. Boil all together for two hours, mash through a fine 
sieve, thicken w^ith a little flour if necessary. 

SAUCE TARTAR 

To a rich mayonnaise dressing add some chopped 
pickle, parsley and capers chopped fine. Serve with fried 
fish. 

NOTE 

Mushroom, Lobster and Shrimp Saucen are made like 
White Cream Sauce with the addition of these things 
chopped medium fine. 

— 201 — 



SAUCES 

''SWEET AND SOUR" SAUCE 

To Be Served with Boiled Tongue or Boiled Leg 

of Mutton 

IJ cups granulated sugar, I cup raisins, 

1 rounded tablespoonful 2 or 3 slices lemon, cut in 

flour, small pieces, 

1 tablespoonful vinegar, 6 cloves and 1 bay leaf. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Melt sugar in sauce-pan, without water, being care- 
ful it does not burn. When entirely melted and brown, 
add boiling Avater, to make the desired quantity of sauce 
(probably two cupfuls) ; put in flour, stirred smooth, with 
a little water, vinegar, lemon, cloves, bay leaf, and salt ; 
scald the raisins and add them. Let the mixture simmer 
slowly for an hour or more, or until all lumps of caramel 
are dissolved, and the sauce is smooth and slightly thick- 
ened. 

SAUCE FOR GAME 

1 glass of jelly (currant or and the juice of half a 
plum), lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Melt all together in double boiler or bowl over boiling 
teakettle. 

"sauce for planked fish or GAIME 
■J cup of butter, juice of half a lemon, salt, white 
pepper and paprika to taste. IMelt all together. 

CHEESE SAUCE 
1 cup of milk, 1 scant tablespoonful of 

1 cup of grated cheese flour, 

(N. Y. Cream), Paprika and salt to taste. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Melt tlie bntter in double boilei*, add floui', then milk. 
When boiling add the cheese and seasoning. Stir often 
and cook until it is smooth and creamy. Serve in a very 
liot dish, as the sauce congeals when t'ool. 

— 202 — 



203 — 



— 204 — 



CANDY 



BUTTER SCOTCH 

3 tablespoonfuls molasses, 1 tablespoonfnl butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls water, 

Add a pinch of soda before 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 
taking from stove. 

Boil all together. Good with chopped peanuts stirred 
through it. 



CREAM CANDY 

2 cups sugar. Butter size of small egg, 

i cup of water, 1 teaspoonful of any flavor- 

i cup of vinegar, ' ing. 

Boil all together, try in cup of ice water, when 
almost stiff pour out in buttered pans and pull when cool. 



NEAPOLITAN CREAM 

i cake Baker's chocolate, 2 cups milk, 

4 cups C sugar. 

Boil all together. To see if cooked try a little in a 
saucer, when it creams take oft' the stove and stir in the 
kettle until thick. Pour an inch deep on buttered plat- 
ters, cut in squares. 



MOLASSES TAFFY 

1 cup molasses, ^ cup vinegar, 

^ cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Butter size of walnut. 

Boil, try in ice water until hard enough to pull. 

— 205 — 



CANDY 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 cup sugar, | cup melted chocolate, or 

^ cup milk, I cake, 

i cup molasses, 1 tablospoonful flour. 

Boil sugar, flour aud molasses together until crisp 
in water, then add milk and chocolate and boil. 



CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

3 cups sugar, ^ cake Baker's chocolate, 

1 cup milk, Butter size of an egg. 

Cook all together until it forms in ice water, then 
stir in the kettle until perfectly smooth, pour out in 
buttered platters one-fourth inch thick, cut in squares 
when almost cold. 



MEXICAN BINOCHE 

2 cups dark brown sugar, 1 butter ball, 
]J cups pecan nuts, A pinch of salt, 

1 cup milk. 

Boil milk and sugar together first (to prevent curd- 
ling), then add butter and salt, boil until creamy, take off 
the stove and boat until smooth, then put in pecans. 

— 206 — 



CANDY 



PUFFED RICE CANDY 

1 cup molasses, 4 teaspoonful soda, 

1 cup brown sugar, i tablespoonful butter, 

J cup cold water, i package puffed rice. 

^ teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. 

Boil molasses, brown sugar and Avater together, when 
boiling hard add cream of tartar and butter. When it 
drops brittle in cold water stir in quickly the puffed rice 
which has first been crisped in the oven. Just before 
adding the rice stir in the soda. 

Spread thin on buttered tins. 



CANDIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL 

Cut grapefruit peel in strips, then make a syrup of 
one cup of sugar to one-half cup of water; boil until 
sugar is dissolved, then drop in peel and cook until ten- 
der; remove and roll in sugar. This may be used as a 
confection; it also makes a delicious seasoning for cus- 
tards, puddings, etc. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Quarter oranges deep enough to peel ; cut quarters 
lengthwise in narrow strips ; can be soaked in water for 
ten days or boiled for fifteen minutes. 

Thick Syrup 

4 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup water. 

Simmer three hours on back of stove ; remove and 
put in colander; let colander drain into bowl. Keep 
syrup. Put granulated sugar in plate. Take pieces, one 
at a time, and roll in sugar while moist; put on dry 
plates. 

— 207 — 



208 — 



— 209 — 



— 210 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



BLACKBERRY BRANDY 

2 quarts blackberry juice, 1 pound sugar, 

1 tablespoonful grated 1 tablespoonful Ceylon cin- 
nutmeg, namon, 

1 tablespoonful ground 1 tablespoonful ground 
allspice, cloves. 

Boil all together for one hour, when cold add one pint 
best French brandy, cork well. Dose — One sherry glass 
full. 

COUG-H SYRUP 

4 ounces gum arable, 1 pint whisky, 

2 ounces rock candy, 1 pint water, 

2 ounces glycerine. 

Dissolve rock candy in water Avith the gum arable on 
back of stove, add glycerine and whisky. 

HAIR TONIC 

^ pint rosemary, 1 oz. tincture of cantharides, 

4 ozs. cologne or bay rum, 1 oz. menthol. 
Apply after shampoo. 

FOR MOSQUITO BITES 

ii alcohol, ^ camphor, 

^ ammonia. Mix all together. 



HEALING SALVE 

i pound resin, 3 ozs. camphor gum, 

J pound beeswax, j^ellow, 1 pound tallow or vaseline. 

Heat all together until dissolved, adding camphor 
last, strain through cheese cloth, stir until cold and 
smooth, put away in china jars; can be kept any length 
of time. 

— 211 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



SALVE— FOR HEMORRHOIDS 

1 dram oxide of zinc, 1 drop attar of rose, 

1 oz. benzoated cerate. 

NERVE REMEDY 

1 ounce soda bromide, 4 ounces aqua q. s. 

One teaspoonful in one-half glass of water, two or 
three times daily, when nervous. 

COUGH MEDICINE 

10c Avorth rock candy, 1^ pints water, 

10c worth licorice, J pint best brand.y, 

2Jc worth senna leaves, ^ pint honey, strained. 

Dissolve rock candy and licorice in the water with 
the senna leaves, over the teakettle ; strain and add the 
other ingredients. 

COUGH CURE 

1 oz. White Pine com- 2 ozs. syrup of tolu ad. 

pound, 

One teaspoonful every two to four hours. 

LINIMENT FOR STIFF NECK 

1 ounce tincture ofir., 1 ounce aqua ammonia, 

1 ounce tincture aconite, 2 ounces alcohol ad., 

1 ounce menthol. 

Local application. Mark "Poison." 

HAIR TONIC 

1 ounce rosemary, 6 ounces bay rum. 

Apply every few dnys witli n l)rush. 

— 212 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



FOR DYSENTERY 

1 ounce bismuth subnit., 1 ounce syrup acacia, 
20 drops acid carbolic 6 ounces aqua cinnamon 

(Calvert's), i. q. s., 

3 ounces elix. codia sulpb. 

Pose — One to two teaspoonfuls every two to four 
hours. 

FURNITURE POLISH 

4 ounces of alcohol, 4 ounces linseed oil, 

1 ounce balsam fir, i ounce sulphuric ether. 

Shake well before using and rub until perfectly dry. 
Use the top only for bad scratches and stains. Apply with 
canton flannel. 

REMEDY FOR FLATULENCE 

2 tablespoonfuls water, i teaspoonful aromatic 

spirits of ammonia. 

Take every fifteen minutes for four doses. 

RHEUMATISM NO. 1 

1 pint Holland gin, 5c worth poke root 

(pulverized). 

Dissolve in gin. One tablespoonful, three times a day. 
after meals. 

LINIMENT FOR LAMENESS IN ARMS 

10c worth best lard, 10c Avorth amanonia. 

10c worth turpentine, 

Melt lard and mix together; rub on lame part. 

— 213 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



CHOLERA MIXTURE 

J oz. spirits of camphor, | oz. tincture of rhubarb, 
^ oz. spirits of peppermint, ^ oz. tincture of capsicum. 
J oz. tincture of opium, 

Dose, one-half teaspoonful in water. 

FOR STIES 

Cold pressed castor oil, rubbed on the lids; first pour 
in palm to heat a little before using. 

UROTROPIN 

(German Remedy by E. Schering for Bladder Trouble) 

Dose : Three ta])lets dissolved in half glass of water. 
Take three times, an hour apart; start first after eating 
and last at bed time. (Four doses will not hurt you.) 

FOR RHEUMATISM 
Piperazine, $1.75 a bottle. 

CLEANING FLUID 

1 part alcohol, 3 parts ether (Spells Ace). 

2 parts chloroform, 

MOTH POWDER 
Equal parts of saltpeter, camphor and sulphur. 



214 — 



USEFUL REMEDIES 



FOR BURNS OR SCALDS 

A piece of absorbent cotton saturated with spirits of 
camphor, applied immediately to a new burn will prevent 
its blistering and hasten healing. 



FLAXSEED TEA FOR BLADDER TROUBLE 

For each cup of boiling water allow one tablespoon- 
ful of flaxseed. Pour the water over the flaxseed and let 
it stand until cool, strain and drink three or four cups a 
day until relieved. 



— 215 



— 216 — 



217 — 



218 -- 



HELPFUL HINTS 



To make whites of eggs stiff, add a pinch of salt 
before beating. 

Kitchen Bouquet is used in all my soups and gravies 
for coloring. 

AVarm the mixing bowl before making cake ; the cake 
will he lighter and can be made more quickly. 

Always sift flour before measuring, unless the recipe 
states that unsifted flour is to be used. 

If you have not enough muffin or gem batter to fill 
all of the tins, a little water poured in each of the empty 
ones will keep them from discoloring or melting. 

A teaspoonful of vinegar in the hot water for poach- 
ing eggs will keep the whites from spreading. 

AVhen baking tomatoes or peppers put them in nuiffin 
pans and they will keep their shape. Butter the pans 
to prevent sticking. 

To remove fruit stains from table linen moisten the 
stains with pure glycerine before sending to the laundry. 

AVhen putting dishes on the ice in the refrigerator a 
rubber fruit jar ring under them will prevent slipping as 
the ice melts. 

A test that there is enough flour in cake : when it 
drops in -a continuous line and not in lumps. 



TO BLANCH ALMONDS 

Shell the nuts and then cover them with boiling 
water; let them stand five minutes, drain, and slip the 
skins off. 



HOW TO CLEAN GLASS BOTTLES AFTER VINEGAR, 
ETC., HAVE STAINED THE INSIDE 

Take a raw potato, chopped fine ; put in bottle and 
shake well ; all particles will adhere to potato ; wash well 
with soap and water. 

— 219 — 



— 22U — 



— 221 — 



— 222 — 



MENUS 



LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS 

Puree of Peas. 

Lobster Terrapin, Cucumbers. 

Sweetbreads, Mushroom Sauce. 

French Peas. 

Sherbet. 

Quail, Lettuce Salad. 

Charlotte Russe, Cake. 

Nuts, Raisins, etc. 

Coffee. 



Chestnut Puree, Celery. 
Halibut Timbale, Pickles. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches. 

Fillet of Beef, Larded. 

Spinach Souffle. 

Sherbet. 

Ducks. Salad. Pickle Peaches. 

Strawberry Mousse, Cake. 

Coffee. 



Consomme Royale. 

Salmon Timbale, Hollandaise Sauce. 

Chicken Cutlets, Cream Sauce. 

Raspberry Sorbet. 

Roast GroiLse, Jelly, Sweet Potatoes. 

Cream Chicken Salad. 

Cheese Balls. 

Pineapple Fruit Ice Cream, Cake. 

Coffee. 

— 223 — 



MENUS 



Chicken Okra Soup. 

Fish, ail Gratin. 

Mushroom Sweetbread Patties. 

Sherbet. 

Prairie Chicken, Potato Croquettes, Jelly. 

Cheese Souffle. 

Fruit Jelly and AVIiipped Cream, Cake. 

Coffee. Mints. 



Chicken Salad for 42 people, 2 gallons. 
Two gallons of brick ice cream. 
Four gallons of sherbet or sorbet. 
Two pounds almonds, 2 pounds mints for an evening 
supper of 80 people. 



— 224 — 



^8) 



— 225 - 



226 — 



BUFFET LUNCHEON FOR 75 PEOPLE 



16 (luai'ts bouillon 



For salad- 



15 pounds chicken, 

12 large stalks celery or 3 dozen small ones, 

2 quart bottles olive oil, 

18 eggs, yolks, 

jMavonnaise dressing. 



1 turkey, 13 pounds, 
180 New York Counts, 
'^ quarts cream sauce, 

large cake, 

small cake, 

quarts ice cream, 

pound tea. 



^ pound cocoa, 



2 cans mushrooms, 
6^ dozen patty cases, 
2 pounds fancy cakes, 
2 pounds almonds, 
6 quarts sherbet (fruit) 

2 quarts plain cream, 

3 quarts milk, 

1^ pounds mints, 
6 lemons. 



227 



— 228 — 



CHAFING DISH SUPPER FOR 40 PEOPLE 



8 quarts bouillon, 

6 dozen frogs' legs, 1 quart cream, 

7 mallard ducks for salmi of duck, 1 pint sherry wine, 

20 stoned olives, 

1 tablespoonful extract of beef for coloring, 

150 New York Counts for frying, 

16 pounds of turkey or 1 baked liam, 

120 biscuits or rolls, 3 pounds butter, 

2 pounds coffee, 

3 pounds loaf sugar, 2 quarts coffee cream, 

11/2 pounds salted almonds, 1 bottle olives or pickles. 



MERINGUE GLACE 

4 dozen meringue shells, 

1 gallon any kind of ice cream to fill shells, 

2 pounds fancy cakes, 

1 larger cake and one loaf nut cake. 

Make the different things as I have described in the 

first of the book. 



SUPPER FOR ONE PIUNDRED PEOPLE 

4i gallons soup (clear, 16 cans peas, or 

velvet or asparagus), 13 gallons fresh peas. 

2 roasted hams (14 pounds 
each), 

— 229 — 



230 — 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



ICE CREAM 

(This may be used for most of the ice cream.) 
One and one-half cans of cream (not Eagle brand, but 
Pioneer, Carnation or Bear), same amount of Avater, one 
cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs — if it 
is possible to get them. Mix the cream and water and 
put on to boil ; beat the eggs, sugar and flour together 
and stir into the cream ; let boil for about twenty min- 
utes. Put away and cool, then add more sugar if desired, 
flavor, and freeze. 



COCOANUT ICE CREAM 

Grate two ripe cocoanuts and put half of what is 
grated into a quart of water and let stand for a couple of 
hours ; then squeeze in a vegetable press. Use this juice in 
place of plain water ; the other half of cocoanut add just 
before your cream is quite frozen. 



SALADS 



BANANA SALAD 

Carefully cut one strip off your banana ; cut out in 
little cubes the meat; mix with mayonnaise; put back 
into the skin, which should resemble a little boat ; sprinkle 
rather thickly with peanuts. 



HEART OF THE COCOANUT TREE— SALAD 

There is no salad so delicious as the heart of the 
cocoanut tree, shredded very fine and served with mayon- 
naise. 

— 231 — 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



BAMBOO SHOOTS SALAD ^ 

Obtain young bamboo shoots, boil and pour off the 
water four or five times until they are quite tender; put 
away to cool ; slice very thin. Serve with mayonnaise or 
French dressing, with a few celery seeds sprinkled on top. 



CANNED SALMON SALAD 

Drain a can of salmon ; mix with mayonnaise, to 
A'hich have been added two tablespoonfuls of cooked 
spinach, one tablespoonful of capers and one-half onion 
chopped very fine. A few anchovies may be added, but 
are not necessary. 



GARNISH FOR SALADS 

A couple of pounds of what are called black-eyed 
peas, put in water to swell peas, and set in a dark place 
until they have sprouted, and have sprouts about an inch 
long; wash very carefully and remove only those Avhich 
may not have sprouted. Use as garnish around any salad. 
Tt will be found crisp and quite nice to eat. 



MANGOSTINE PRESERVES 

Hull the fruit and use pound for pound of sugar and 
fruit; cook until vevy thick. The great secret of this 
preserve is do not seed; when cooked tlie seeds are like 
the most delicious nuts mixed all through the preserve. 
This fruit Queen Victoria gave a pound sterling for every 
fruit aiTix'ing in p]ngland in good condition. 

— 232 — 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 



SPANISH RICE 

Melt two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce- 
pan, add two cups of cooked rice, four tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, five tablespoonfuls tomato pulp, a pinch of 
mustard, one teaspoonful chutney, salt to taste and few 
grains of cayenne pepper ; mix and beat thoroughly. Put 
in baking dish, sprinkle surface with browned bread 
crumbs and serve very hot. 



CURRY, SHRIMPS, AND CONDIMENTS 

Grate one cocoanut, put in a quart of water, let stand 
two hours and squeeze with vegetable press ; put one and 
a half tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add half an 
onion chopped very fine, six or eight Chinese mushrooms, 
Avhich have been well soaked ; cover and fry a few 
minutes Tintil onions are nearly done ; add part of the 
cocoanut water and one tablespoonful of Indian curry 
powder (Cross & Blackwell) ; let cook slowly. As liquid is 
needed, add cocoanut water ; it should cook nearly an 
hour ; add two cans of shrimps and cook five minutes. 
Serve with boiled rice and many condiments, grated 
cocoanuts, chutney (sweet mango is very good), Bombay 
duck, chopped onion, shredded lettuce, very thin omelet 
shredded, small pickled fish, etc; these should be served 
around the curry and rice in small dishes. An excellent 
way is to put the shrimps and curry in a large dish with 
rice border, and all the little dishes of the same size, and 
place all on large tray; this gives the appearance of an 
English curry service. 

— 233 — 



RECIPES FOR THE TROPICS 



DRINKS— VERY COOLING 

Make a syrup of one cup of sugar and one pint of 
water, boil ten minutes ; add one can of grated pineapple 
and the juice of three lemons, cool and strain; when 
ready to serve add one quart of ice water. 



ICE TEA 

I 

When tea is hot add three whole cloves for each cup 
of tea ; add cloves after tea has been poured off the leaves, 
and then put away to cool. 



II 



Pour the boiling water over crushed mint leaves and 
tea, and draw off the liquid and put away to cool. 



— 234 — 



TIME TABLES 



TIME TABLE FOR BOILING VEGETABLES 

Time 

Potatoes 20-30 min. 

String beans 20-30 min. 

Lima beans 30-40 min. 

Peas 15-20 min. 

Spinach 15-20 miii. 

Asparagus 20-25 min. 

Turnips 30 min. 

Beets 40 min. 

Green corn 20-25 min. 

Cabbage 20 min. 

Cauliflower 20 min. 

Brussels sprouts 10-15 min. 

Parsnips 30-40 min. 

Onions 30-40 min. 

Rice 15-20 min. 

Macaroni 20 min. 



rp 



TlUE TABLE FOR BOILING MEATS 

Time 
per Pound 

Corned beef 30 min. 

Potted beef 30-35 min. 

Ham 20 min. 

Mutton 15 min. 

Turkey 15 min. 

Chicken 15 min. 

Fowl 20-30 min. 

Tripe 3-5 hrs. 

— 235 — 



TIME TABLES 



TIME TABLE FOR MISCELLANEOUS BAKING 

Large fish about 1 hour 

Small fish 20-30 min. 

Bread 1 hr. 

Biscuits 20 min. 

Cake 20-45 min. 

Custards, very slow oven 1 hr. 

TIME TABLE FOR BAKING MEATS 

Time 
per Pound 

Beef, rare 8-10 min. 

Beef, well done 12-15 min. 

Beef, boned and rolled 12-15 min. 

Beef, round 12-15 min. 

Mutton, leg, rare 10 min. 

I\Iutton, leg, well done 15 min. 

Mutton, loin, rare 8 min. 

Mutton, shoulder, stuffed 15 min. 

Mutton, saddle, rare 9 min. 

Lamb, well done 15 min. 

Veal 18-20 min. 

Pork 20 min. 

Venison, rare 10 min. 

Chicken 15 miii. 

Goose 18 min. 

Braised meats 3-1: hrs. 

Fillet, hot oven 30 min. 

Liver, whole 2 hrs. 

Turkey, 8 lbs 1% hrs. 

Turkey, very large 3 hrs. 

Ducks, tame 45 min. 

Ducks, mallard and canvasbaek 20-25 min. 

Ducks, teal, very hot oven 10 min. 

Birds, small, hot oven 15-20 min. 

Partridge 35-40 min. 

Grouse 20-25 min. 

— 236 — 



TIME TABLES 



TIME TABLE FOR BOILING FISH 

Time 
per Pound 

Salmon 10-15 min. 

Codfish 6 min. 

Halibut 15 min. 

Bluefish 10 min. 

Bass 10 min. 

Haddock 6 min. 

Small fish 6 min. 

Lobster '. 30-40 min. 

TIME TABLE FOR BROILING MEATS AND FISH 

Time 

Steak, 1 inch thick 8-10 min. 

Steak, lVi> inches thick 10-15 min. 

Mutton chops, French 8 min. 

Mutton chops, English 10 min. 

Spring chicken 20 min. 

Quail 8-10 min. 

Grouse 15 min. 

Squabs 10-15 min. 

Shad, bluefish, and trout 15-25 min. 

Small fish 5-10 min. 

TABLE OF USEFUL MEASURES 

2 gills^l cup (teacup). 

2 cups=^l pint. 

2 pints^l quart. 

4 cups fiour=l pound or 1 quart. 

4 cups liquid=l quart. 

2 cups butter packed solidly=l pound. 

2 cups granulated sugar=l pound. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, solid and level=:l ounce. 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar=l ounce. 

2 tablespoonfuls flpur=l ounce. 

— 237 — 



— 238 



Modern Cooking Methods 

BY JOHN M. CONNELLY 

Advertising Manager Denver Gas C^ Electric 
Light Company 



Words fail utterly to describe what gas fuel has 
done for womankind. Speech would be an inadequate 
vehicle to convey to the mind of the average person the 
revolution that has been brought about in the home and 
the emancipation of woman that has been evolved through 
that revolution. 

It has opened up for woman an ideal home with 
perfect service. She has been made acquainted with the 
bes't living, Avhich means the doing of her work with 
ample leisure and opportunity for the hundred and one 
other things which broaden life's outlook. 

In the past the making of a home was synonymous 
with household slavery and drudgery. Today home-mak- 
ing is not even synonymous with housekeeping, the intro- 
duction of the gas range and electricity into the home 
making it possible for a maximum amount of work to be 
done in the minimum time. 

The contrast between the kitchen of today and 
yesterday is so marked that one can hardly believe that 
any one labor-saving agency could be made to so 
materially alter the conditions of womankind. 

The pictures that are called up by the contrast 
are, on the one hand, an overheated and dingy coal or 
wood kitchen, ashes, smoke, coal hods, back-breaking 
lifts and the passing of time, and a sooty, dust-begrimed 
housewife. On the other hand, one sees the new, modern 
gas kitchen with its compact and artistic range, and a 
housewife fresh and dainty-looking in a light frock pre- 
paring in a little while the family victuals which ordinarily 
would require hours of work and back-breaking labor. 

— 239 — 



Think for a inomeiit of the saving in time and labor 
where fuel is always ready to Inirn at the turn of a valve, 
the striking of a match — no further attention, no waits, 
no preparation. 

Not many years ago the gas range was looked upon 
as a novelty and a luxury to be possessed only b.y those 
born with silver spoons in their mouths. Today it would 
be almost impossible to speak of the number of gas 
ranges that have been installed in the city without giving 
the number of homes there are in Denver. 

The gas range seemed the one thing to make the 
work of the modern woman progressive and up-to-date. 
And with the introduction of gas ranges they literally 
spread over the entire country; no woman, regardless of 
her position in life, feeling that she could, in justice to 
herself or her famil}^, do without one. 

The economy of the gas range, the cleanliness of the 
kitchen where one was installed, the saving in time and 
strength for the housewife, spoke for themselves. These 
factors in the bettering of the modern home and the 
advantages so received explain the wide popularity of the 
gas range and the refusal of any woman to be without one. 

The ease with which the gas range may be made to 
work is the first thing that has appealed to women. It 
is so easy that women who had been used to spending 
from ten to thirty minutes in building a coal fire didn't 
think that it was possible. Money wouldn't hire a woman 
w^ho has once used a gas range to go back to a coal range, 
any more than a live business man would be tempted 
to go back to the old methods of doing his work hy hand 
instead of by electricity. 

The three words ''Cook AVith Gas" suggest an 
absolutely new plan of kitchen work. It means that the 
drudgery of kitchen work is reduced to less than one- 
half. It means that the tired housewife is given a ])reath- 
ing spell and a chance to rest and recreate herself. 

Cooking with gas means more than tliose things, how- 
ever ; it means that cooking has been reduced to a domestic 
science and an art. You cook better and cpiicker on a 
gas range than on any coal or wood stove that can be 
bought. 

— 240 — 



Boiling, frying, stewing, are all done on one range 
top with the right fire under each article to do it in the 
right way. No preparation is necessary, no waits are in 
order, the thing is done in a moment. 

And the strangest thing is that cooking with gas 
with all its advantages costs less than cooking with any 
other fuel. Actual tests show that gas is one-third 
cheaper than coal. And the reason for that is obvious, 
for in cooking with gas, a fire is not kept burning until 
you get it right and as long as you need to keep it right. 
A gas fire is right the instant that it is lit and does not 
have to be kept burning. 

For baking, a gas range is ideal ; it is the quickest 
and best way. With gas, stove worry is out of the ques- 
tion; the whole time of the housewife can be given to 
the baking. Baking days come and go as a matter of 
course, and do not mean a long day of shutting oneself 
up with a fiery hot range that takes a wiiole lot of time 
to get it ready, and a great deal more time to keep it 
fired up. A match is struck, a valve is turned, and baking 
is in order. The oven is ready, the fire being neither too 
hot nor too cold, but just right to bake evenly and 
thoroughly light, flaky bread, cakes, or pastry. 

Another feature of the gas range that makes it 
superior to any other is the special oven for broiling. 
Gas does broiling quicker and better than coal or charcoal, 
none of the nutritious elements are lost, the full force 
of the heat being directed against the broil. Then, too, the 
broiler can be used for toasting. 

A gas range is always ready, morning, noon or night. 
From every point of view gas is superior to a coal or 
wood stove. It will do everj^thing that any other fuel 
Avoulcl do, and do it with less cost, less labor, less time, 
and BETTER RESULTS. 

And to the home that has been fully blessed with 
the benefits and advantages of the gas range have been 
added other labor-saving devices, introducing electricity 
as a servant in the home. AVith the gas range and the 
number of electrical cooking appliances on the market 
today, no woman need be a household drudge. 



(9) 



— 241 — 



The inoderii housewife looks upon electricity as a 
household commodity. Electrical cooking appliances 
mean to her personal comfort, household convenience, 
and labor saving. The electrical household conveniences 
that today add to the comfort of every home include the 
coffee percolater, bread toaster, and Qgs^ cooker that make 
of breakfast a pleasure for the woman who does her own 
cooking as well as the family for whom she cooks. Hot 
coffee, warm toast, and eggs shirred just right, are the 
breakfast dishes that take but a moment to prepare by 
Avay of cooking electrically. The chafing dish, the kettle, 
the grill, the samovar, the milk warmer, and the electric 
fireless cooker are the other labor-saving devices intro- 
duced to make the work of the kitchen a household joy 
and not a household drudgery. 

Not a woman in Denver today who has not made of 
"Electricity" a friend ever ready to serve her economi- 
cally and quickly. 



— 242 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 489 407 8 |> 



