


[;:■■:: 








MaakMank 




1 
r 

k: 


', . ' ''*' 


• 




Class / A^ ;^. 

Book ^ fj <^'CD - 

GopyrightN° 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



tttgnlft Qlnok Snnk 

COMPILED BY 

Elfrieda von Rohr Sauer 

ASSISTED BY 

COMMITTEE, FRIENDS AND MEMBERS 

OF 

ST. MARTINS SEWING CIRCLE 

FOR THE CIRCLE 




JONES a KROEGER CO . I'RIMERS. 
WINONA. MINN 



Xi 



5 



S^s 



COPYRIGHTED BY 

Elfrieda von Rohr SAUER 

JUNE, 1916 
WINONA, MINNESOTA 




m 19 1916 
©CI.A431572 

•7/D / • 



Bread, Rolls, Biscuits 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 egg, well beaten | c. raisins 

J c. molasses | c. whole wheat or graham flour 

\ c. sour milk f c. corn meal, yellow 

I tsp. soda I c. Wingold flour 

I tsp. salt 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add molasses, milk and other ingredients to beaten egg. Put 
into well greased brown bread cans, cover each and place them into 
shallow pan with one and one-half inches of water. Bake in moderate 
oven about 1| hrs. This recipe will make one large loaf, or two 
smaller ones. 

BRAN BREAD 

The following recipe for a health bread was prescribed by a physi- 
cian. 

3 c. whole wheat flour 3 tblsp. molasses 

1 c. bran 1 tsp. soda 

Pinch of salt Buttermilk to make soft dough 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Stir all ingredients together. Bake 45 min. in a moderately hot 
oven. This is usually baked in a tea or coffee can, that will leave 
little of the surface exposed to crust over. This could be made en- 
tirely of unsifted graham flour, as the amount of bran would be about 
the same. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast 4 tblsp. light brown sugar or 
1 c. milk, scalded and cooled molasses 

1 c. lukewarm water 4 c. graham flour 

2 tblsp. lard or butter 1 c. sifted Wingold flour 

1 tsp. salt 
Dissolve yeast and sugar, or molasses, in lukewarm liquid. Add 
lard or butter, then flour, gradually, and lastly the salt. Knead thor- 
oughly, being sure to keep dough soft. Cover and set aside in a warm 
place to rise, for about 2 hrs. When double in bulk, turn out on 
kneading board, mould into loaves, and place into well greased pans, 
cover and set to rise again — about 1 hr., or until light. Bake 1 hr., 
in a slower oven than for white bread. If wanted for over night, use 
I cake of yeast and an extra tsp. salt. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

f c. molasses 3 c. graham flour 

1 c. sugar 1 c. Wingold flour 
2| c. sour milk 1 c. nuts 

2 tsp. soda 1 c. raisins 

Mix thoroughly. Let rise in pans 1 hr., then bake 1 hr. 

— 3 — 



NUT BREAD 

4 c. Wingolcl flour 1 egg, beaten light 

I c. sugar 2 c. milk 

4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 c. chopped walnuts 
1 tsp. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk to egg, then add to flour 
mixture, add nuts. Let rise 1 hr. in pans, then bake 1 hr. Half this 
mixture makes one loaf. 

NUT BREAD 

1 c. warm water 1 tblsp. molasses 

^ Fleischmann's comj). yeast 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

Rye and graham flour for soft 1 tsp. salt 

sponge Wingold flour to make stiff dough 

Set in morning. Dissolve yeast in water, adding rye and graham 
flour, and molasses. When light, add wheat flour to make stiff dough 
and the nuts and salt. Let rise again, form into loaf. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast | c. brown sugar 

2 c. boiling water | c. lukewarm water 

2 c. rolled oats 4 c. sifted Wingold flour 

1 tsp. salt 

Pour 2 c. boiling water over oatmeal, cover and let stand until 
cool. Dissolve yeast and sugar in h c. lukewarm water and add this 
to the oatmeal and water. Add 1 c. flour, or enough to make an ordi- 
nary sponge. Beat well. Cover and set aside in a moderately warm 
place to rise for 1 hr., or until light. Add enough flour to make a 
dough — about 3 c, lastly the salt. Knead well. Place into greased 
bowl, cover and let rise in a moderately warm place, until double in 
bulk — about 1| hrs. Mould into loaves, fill well greased pans half 
full, cover and let rise again about 1 hr. Bake 45 min. in a hot oven. 
I c. of chopped nuts and 1 tblsp. lard or butter may be added. 

OATMEAL NUT BREAD 

1 c. hot water 2 c. graham flour 

1 c. oatmeal 1 c. nuts, chopped 

1 c. milk, scalded. and cooled h c. raisins, chopped 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast J c. dark brown sugar 

1 tblsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

Pour hot water over oatmeal. Add yeast and butter to milk. 
Combine the two and add other ingredients. Let stand in covered 
bowl till light. Add Wingold flour enough to make stiff dough. 
Divide into loaves; put into pans; set warm tiU light. Bake 1 hr. in 
medium oven. 

— 4 — 



RAISIN BREAD 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast f c. sugar 

1 c. lukewarm water 4 tblsp. lard or butter 

1 c. milk, scalded and cooled f c. raisins 

6 c. sifted Wingold flour 1 tsp. salt 

Dissolve yeast and 1 tblsp. sugar in lukewarm liquid, add 2 c. of 
flour, the lard or butter and sugar well creamed, and beat until smooth. 
Cover and set aside to rise in a warm place, free from draft, until 
light — about 1| hrs. When well risen, add raisins well floured, the 
rest of the flour to make a soft dough, and lastly the salt. Knead 
lightly. Place into well greased bowl, cover and let rise again until 
double in bulk — about 1^ hrs. Mould into loaves, fill well greased 
pans half full, cover and let rise until light — about 1 hr. Glaze with 
egg diluted with water, and bake 45 min. 

RYE BREAD 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast 5 c. rye flour 

1 c. milk, scalded and cooled Ih c. sifted Wingold flour 

2 c. lukewarm water 1 tblsp. lard or butter, melted 

1 tblsp. salt 
Dissolve yeast in lukewarm liquid, add 2| c. rye flour, or enough 
to make sponge. Beat well. Cover and set aside in a warm place, 
free from draft, to rise about 2 hrs. When light, add white flour, lard 
or butter, rest of rye flour, or enough to make a soft dough, and the 
salt. Turn on a board and knead, or pound it 5 min. Place in greased 
bowl, cover and let rise until double in bulk — about 2 hrs. Turn on 
board and shape into long loaves. Place in shallow pans, cover and 
let rise again until light — about 1 hr. Brush with white of egg and 
water, to glaze. With sharp knife cut lightly three strokes diagonally 
across top, and place in oven. Bake in slower oven than for white 
bread. Caraway seed may be used if desired. 

STEAMED BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 c. corn meal | c. molasses 

1 c. rye meal 1 c. sour milk 

1 c. graham flour. 1 tsp. soda 
1 tsp. salt 

Mix dough thoroughly, then put into three one pound baking 
powder cans and steam for 2h hrs. Be sure to grease covers and put 
them on. 

WHITE BREAD 

(Comp. Yeastj 

1 pt. milk scalded 1 tblsp. salt 

1 pt. boiling water 1 heaping tbls]). lard 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast Pinch of soda 

3 qts. Wingold flour, sifted and warmed 2 tblsp. sugar 

Mix thoroughly the water, milk, sugar, and 3 of the flour. Dis- 
solve yeast in j c. warm water. When yeast is dissolved and first 
mixture cooled, combine the two and beat well. Set into warm place 

— 5 — 



for I hr., then add the remainder of the flour with the soda, shorten- 
ing, and salt. Knead stiff and set away till doubled in bulk. It may 
be kneaded once more, or may be formed into loaves at once. This 
recipe makes four or five loaves. 

WHITE BREAD 

(Yeast Foam) 

At noon boil one medium potato, mash and add 1 c. of the hot 
potato water, flour enough to make a batter, add 1 cake yeast foam 
dissolved in lukewarm water. Beat into batter and let rise. Early 
in the evening take 1^ qts. warm water and flour enough to make 
batter. Stir in yeast and let rise till light, then add 1 tblsp. butter, 

1 tblsp. lard, and salt to taste, and flour enough to make stiff dough. 
Knead well. Keep in warm place until morning. Put into loaves 
and let rise until light. Bake 1 hr. This makes five loaves. When 
done, brush with butter, and cover with cloth till cold. 

WHITE BREAD 

(Without Shortening) 

2 c. potato water or milk 3 pts. Wingold flour 

2 tsp. sugar | cake Fleischmann's yeast 

2 tsp. salt J c. warm water 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water. Cool the potato water 
or scalded milk and add salt and dissolved yeast. Gradually add the 
flour, then knead well. Keep in warm place and let rise 1| hrs. 
When light, knead down and let rise again, about 1 hr., then form 
into two loaves. Let rise in pans for 45 min. or until light; then bake 
about f hr. in hot oven. 

WHITE BREAD 

(Quick Method) 

2 cakes Fleischmann's yeast 2 tblsp. lard or butter, melted 

1 qt. lukewarm water 3 qts. sifted Wingold flour 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 tblsp. salt 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm water, add lard or butter, 
and half the flour. Beat until smooth, then add salt and balance of 
the flour, or enough to make dough that can be handled. Knead until 
smooth and elastic. Place into greased bowl, cover and set aside in a 
moderately warm place, free from draft, until light — about 1| hrs. 
Mould into loaves. Place into well greased bread pans, filling them half 
full. Cover and let rise 1 hr., or until double in bulk. Bake 45 to 60 
min. If a richer loaf is desired, use milk in place of part or all of the 
water. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast 3 tblsp. brown sugar 

H c. lukewarm water 3 tblsp,. lard or butter, melted 

1| c. milk, scalded and cooled 7| c. whole wheat flour 

1| tsp. salt 
Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm liquid. Add lard or but- 
ter, then flour gradually, as whole wheat flour absorbs moisture slowly, 
adding enough to make dough that can be handled, and the salt. 

— 6 — 



Knead thoroughly, being sure to keep dough soft. Place into well 
greased bowl, cover and set aside in a warm place, to rise for about 2 
hrs. When double in bulk, turn out on kneading board. Mould into 
loaves, place into well greased pans, cover and set to rise again for about 

1 hr., or until light. Bake 1 hr., in a slower oven than for white 
bread. If wanted for over night, use ^ cake of yeast and an extra | 
tsp. salt. 

BERLINER BUNS 

2 c. butter 4 eggs, beaten separately 
2 scant qts. Wingold flour 4 hard boiled yolks 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder ^ c. sugar 

^ tsp. Watkins' almond extract 

Work butter into flour sifted with baking powder, as for pie. 
Mix raw and boiled yolks thoroughly, then add sugar and add to first 
mixture. Add flavor, and beaten whites last. Roll thin, and cut 
same as doughnuts. Cover with egg white, sugar, and chopped 
blanched almonds. Bake a delicate brown in medium oven. 

CURRANT BUNS 

2 c. milk, scalded and cooled 1 tsp. salt 
I cake Fleischmann's yeast | c. sugar 

J c. warm water 1 egg, beaten light 

2 c. Wingold flour 

Dissolve yeast in warm water, then add to milk, and add other 
ingredients. Beat thoroughly, then set into warm place to rise. When 
light add j c. melted butter, 1 c. currants, ^ tsp. each cinnamon and 
nutmeg and about 4 extra c. of flour. Knead thoroughly, then let 
rise till light. Shape into small round cakes and place into well greased 
tins; when light, bake in medium oven about 30 min. When half done, 
glaze with mixture of 1 egg yolk, little sugar, and 1 tblsp. cold water, 
repeat just before taking them out of the oven. 

GERMAN HOT CROSS BUNS 

3 c. milk 1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 

Wingold flour enough to make a stiff dough with above ingredients. 

Let rise over night. Next morning add — 
5 c. butter, melted Pinch of salt 

1 c. sugar ^ tsp. soda 

^ tsp. nutmeg Wingold flour enough to roll out 

Knead well and let rise about 5 hrs. Roll out dough | in. thick. 
Cut into round pieces; put into greased tins, and let stand | hr. With 
sharp knife cut a "cross on top of each bun. Bake 20 min. While 
still hot, cover with beaten egg-white and sugar. Return to oven to 
set the glaze. 

COCOA ROLLS 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast | c. cocoa 

2 c. milk, scalded and cooled 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

— 7 — 



2 tblsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

2 egg yolks, beaten light 3 c. Wingold flour 
I c. sugar 

Dissolve yeast in milk with part of the sugar; add flour to make 
soft sponge, let rise; add other ingredients except cocoa, let rise again, 
then roll a thin sheet, butter it, sprinkle with sugar and cocoa, fold 
it over to make it double, cut with biscuit cutter, let rise again, spread 
with egg white and sugar, then bake. 

JUST ROLLS 

(Excellent) 

1 cjt. milk 3 level tsp. salt 

1 pt. water 1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 

3 tblsp. lard Wingold flour 

2 tsp. sugar 

Pour milk and water scalding hot over the lard, sugar, and salt. 
Let stand until cool, then add yeast dissolved in warm water, and stir 
in flour with a spoon until the batter is stiff enough to pour out on 
moulding board; mould lightly 10 min., using no more flour than is 
necessary. Let rise, shape into rolls, handling little as possible. Let 
rise again and bake 20 min. in hot oven. This makes about 100 rolls. 

MAPLE ROLLS 

2 c. Wingold flour 3 tblsp. shortening 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 c. milk 

1 ts]). salt ^ lb. maple sugar 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt. Work in the shortening, 
using two knives, and make a dough with the milk. Roll out as 
square as possible and sprinkle with the maple sugar. Brush the 
further end with water and roll the pastry from you in a firm roll. 
Cut off in I in. slices, place into greased and floured pan, brush with 
melted shortening, and bake 15 min. in moderate oven. 

OUR ROLLS 

1 pt. scalded milk Whites of 2 eggs 

I c. butter 1 cake Fleischmann's yeast dis- 
j c. sugar solved in j c. lukewarm water 

1 tsp. salt Wingold Flour 

Pour hot milk over the sugar, salt and butter; when lukewarm, 
add the yeast and beaten whites of eggs. Add enough flour to make 
a sponge. When light, add enough more flour to knead. Knead and 
let rise to double its bulk, then knead again slightly, and roll out into 
a large sheet, ^ in. thick, having the edges as straight as possible. 
Spread all over with soft butter, and sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, 
grated lemon rind and currants. Roll up like a jelly roll, cut off slices 
an inch wide, lay them with the cut side down onto well greased pans, 
and when light bake in a hot oven 15 or 20 min. When nearly done, 



glaze them, by using the following: Dilute 2 tsp. of cornstarch with a 
little cold water, pour on f c. of boiling water and let simmer 10 min. 
Brush over the top with the starch and dredge with sugar. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast 4 tblsp. lard or butter, melted 

1 pt. milk, scalded and cooled 3 pt. sifted Wingold flour 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk, add lard or butter 
and 1| pts. of flour. Beat until perfectly smooth. Cover and let 
rise in a warm place 1 hr., or until light. Then add remainder of 
flour, or enough to make a dough, and the salt. Knead well. Place 
into greased bowl. Cover and let rise in a warm place for about H hrs., 
or until double in bulk. Roll out j in. thick. Brush over lightly with 
melted butter, cut with 2-in. biscuit cutter, crease through center 
heavily with dull edge of knife, and fold over in pocketbook shape. 
Place into well greased, shallow pans 1 in. apart. Cover and let rise 
until light — about f hr. Bake 10 min. in hot oven. 

POCKETBOOK ROLLS 

2 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 1| c. lukewarm milk 

1 qt. Wingold flour 
Dissolve yeast in milk, add flour and beat until smooth. Cover 
and let rise in a warm place about 3 hrs. Then add — 
1 c. butter, melted | tblsp. salt 

1 c. warm milk j c. sugar 

3 eggs, well beaten Wingold flour to make soft dough 

Put butter into milk before adding. Cover and let rise in warm 
place until very light. Roll out j in. thick. Brush over with butter, 
cut with cookie cutter, crease heavily through center, and fold over 
in pocketbook shape. Place into greased pans an inch apart. Cover 
and let rise until light. Bake about 20 min. 

ROLLS 

2 mashed potatoes, or G c. Wingold flour 

I c. flour, scalded 2 eggs, reserve 1 yolk 

f c. sugar, or less | c. shortening 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 1 tblsp. salt 
2| c. milk, scalded and cooled 

Make a soft sponge with potatoes or scalded flour, the sugar, 
yeast dissolved in the scalded milk, and some of the flour. When 
light, add the egg whites and 1 yolk well beaten, the melted shorten- 
ing, salt, and the rest of the flour. Knead well about 5 min., return 
to bowl, brush top with shortening, cover and set into warm steamy 
place until double in bulk. The dough may be worked down again 
in the bowl, or it may be rolled out and cut into rolls. Mix the extra 
egg yolk with j c. milk to brush the tops of the rolls before baking. 
Bake in moderate oven 20 min. 

— 9 — 



THREE-IN-ONE ROLLS 

Use dough for rolls as given above. Mold into balls of dough the 
size of a walnut, allowing three of these to each well greased gem pan. 
Cover the palms of the hands with shortening, then roll each ball of 
dough between the palms, before dropping into the pans. Crowd 
three such balls into each individual gem pan. Let rise in a warm 
steamy place. Brush tops with mixture of egg yolk and water before 
baking. Bake in moderate oven 20 min. Brush with melted short- 
ening upon taking from the oven. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 tblsp. lard 

4 tsp. Calumet baking powder f c. milk and water 

1 tblsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

Mix dry ingredients and sift twice. Work in butter and lard with 
tips of lingers; add gradually the liquid, mixing with knife to soft 
dough. It is impossible to determine the exact amount of liquid, 
owing to differences in flour. Toss on a floured board, pat, and roll 
lightly to I in. in thickness. Shape with a biscuit cutter. Place onto 
buttered pan, and bake in hot oven 12 to 15 min. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUITS 

2 c. Wingold flour 3 tblsp. shortening 
1 tsp. salt 1 c. buttermilk 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder ^ tsp. soda 

Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Mix in shortening by 
using two knives. Dissolve soda in buttermilk and add to the above. 
Do not touch the dough with the hands until turned onto the floured 
board. Roll out ^ in. thick and cut with medium sized biscuit cutter. 
Brush the tops with melted shortening and bake in moderate oven 
about 12 to 15 min. This recipe will make 24 small or 18 medium 
biscuits. 

CREAM CHEESE BISCUITS 

2 c. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. butter 
4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 scant c. milk 

1 tsp. salt f c. grated cream cheese 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, work in the butter, gradually add 
the milk and the cheese. Knead lightly, then roll out | in. thick. 
Cut into rounds and bake in quick oven 15 min. 

FRUIT BISCUITS 

Use baking powder biscuit dough, or a richer dough if desired; 
roll thin, spread with a mixture of chopped figs, raisins and nuts, or 
chopped cooked prunes alone may be used; roll up like a jelly roll, cut 
into inch pieces and bake in a quick oven. These rolls may be used 
as tea biscuit, or a sauce may be served with them and used as a des- 
sert. 

— 10 — 



POTATO BISCUITS 

1 c. milk, scalded and cooled 2 eggs, beaten light 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast 3 mashed hot potatoes 

1 tblsp. butter, melted 1 tblsp. sugar 
3 tsp. lard, melted 1 tsp. salt 

Mix well, then let rise 4 to 5 hrs.; roll out and cut with very small 
cutter; let rise another 2 hrs., then bake 10 min. in quick oven. Very 
good. 

PREMIUM BISCUIT 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 egg white 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder j scant c. butter 

1 tsp. salt Milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, work in the butter, then add beaten 
white and enough milk to make soft dough. Cut any desired size. 

QUICK BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

2 c. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. lard 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 tblsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, work in butter and lard, add milk 
gradually, drop into well buttered muffln tins. Bake in hot oven 15 
min. Very good. 

SHORT CAKE BISCUIT 

2 eggs, beaten light 2| c. Wingold flour 

I c. cream 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, adding more cream if dough is too stiff. Roll 
into sheets | in. thick, spread with melted butter, put together, then 
cut out in rounds and bake in quick oven 15 min. 

TWIN BISCUITS 

2 c. Wingold flour f c. milk, more or less 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 4 tblsp. lard or butterine 
1 tsp, salt 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt three or four times. Work in 
the shortening, using two knives. Then make a soft dough with the 
milk. Roll out | in. thick. Brush generously with melted shorten- 
ing. Fold over and run rolling pin over the dough. Cut out with a 
cookie cutter. Brush tops with milk. Bake 10 min. in medium oven. 
These may be prepared some hrs. before baking, placed into pans and 
kept in cool place until ready to take places at the table when they 
may be put into the oven. Twin biscuits are just the thing for indi- 
vidual strawberry short cakes, also for serving with chicken fricassee. 

— 11 — 



BERRY MUFFINS 

2 c. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. butter 
I c. sugar 1 scant c. milk 
4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 c. berries 

f tsp. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; work in butter with finger tips; add 
milk and berries; bake in muffin tins. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

^ c. butter, creamed f c. milk 

J c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

J tsp. salt 4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, beaten light 1 c. blueberries 

Cream sugar and butter, then add salt, egg, milk, flour sifted with 
baking powder, and blueberries. Bake in well greased muffin tins 25 
min. Any fresh berry or chopped dates may be used instead of blue- 
berries. 

COCOA MUFFINS 

1 tblsp. butter | c. sugar 

1 egg, well beaten 3 tsp. cocoa 

I c. milk 1 c. Wingold flour 

J tsp. salt 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix and sift all ingredients; add butter, egg, and milk. Bake 
in hot oven in well greased muffin tins 25 min. 

DAINTY MUFFINS 

3 c. Wingold flour 1| c. milk 

4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 4 tblsp. melted shortening 

2 tblsp. sugar 

Sift all dry ingredients together, add the milk to which the egg 
slightly beaten has been added, then the melted shortening. Mix 
thoroughly and quickly, cutting the dough back and forth. Drop 
into deep gem pans. Brush tops with melted shortening and bake 
25 min. Half of this recipe may be dropped as usual into the gem 
pans and set away in a cool place to bake the next morning or for a 
later meal. Raisins may be added or in season 1 c. of blueberries. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 c. graham flour 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. Wingold flour 1 tblsp. melted butter 

4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 egg 

I c. sugar 1 c. milk 

Mix and sift all dry ingredients; add butter, egg, and milk. 
Fold in I c. chopped dates. Bake in hot oven in buttered gem pans 
25 min. 

— 12 — 



MUFFINS 

J c. butter, creamed f c. milk 

I c. sugar 11 c. Wingold flour 

1 egg, beaten light 4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar to butter, then add egg, and flour mixed with baking 
powder, alternately with the milk. Bake in well greased muffin tins 
25 min. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 

1| c. sour milk Butter, size of an egg, melted 

2 c. oatmeal j tsp. salt 

1 tblsp. sugar 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 egg, beaten 1 tsp. soda 

Soak oatmeal in sour milk over night. In morning add other 
ingredients and bake in moderate oven. 

OLD TIME MUFFINS 

1 c. butter | cake Fleischmann's comp. yeast 

2 tblsp. sugar Pinch of salt 

2 eggs, well beaten Wingold flour to make drop batter 

1 pt. milk, scalded and cooled 

Dissolve yeast in milk, add other ingredients, and beat thoroughly. 
Make before noon if wanted for supper, or at night if intended for 
breakfast. Let rise, then drop into muffin tins and bake from 20 to 
30 min. Makes 16 muffins. 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 tblsp. melted butter f c. milk 

2 tblsp. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 or 2 eggs, beaten light 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given. Bake in well greased muffin tins 25 min. 

CORNMEAL GEMS 

J c. butter, creamed 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 c. cornmeal 

2 eggs, beaten light 4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk I tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, beat thoroughly, and bake 20 min. in hot well 
greased gem pans. 

DELICIOUS GRAHAM GEMS 

4 tblsp. melted butter 2 c. milk 

2 tblsp. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
2 eggs, beaten light I tsp, salt » 

Graham flour to make dough stiff enough to drop from spoon 
into gem pans. 

— 13 — 



GRAHAM GEMS 

1 tblsp. butter, melted 1 tsp. soda 

^ c. sugar 1 heaping c. graham flour 

1 egg, well beaten i tsp. salt 

1 c. sour milk 

Beat sugar and egg light, add melted butter and beat again. 

Add other ingredients, dissolving soda in sour milk. Bake in gem 
pans. 

NUT GEMS 

1 egg, beaten light I c. cream 

1 tsp. sugar H c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. salt h c. nuts, chopped 
f c. milk 

Mix ingredients in order given, beat 5 min. Bake in well greased 
gem pans in medium oven 20 min. Chopped dates or raisins may be 
used instead of nuts. 

RICE GEMS 

f c. hot boiled rice 2j c. Wingold flour 

2 tblsp. melted butter 5 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 egg, well beaten ' 2 tblsp. sugar 

1 c. milk I tsp. salt 

Mix and sift all dry ingredients. Add milk to egg, then add to 
flour mixture, and add rice and butter. Beat thoroughly, then bake 
in well greased gem pans in hot oven about 30 min. 

SPICE GEMS 

I c. butter, creamed | tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, 
1 c. sugar cloves, and nutmeg 

3 eggs, beaten light 1 c. sour milk 
1 c. molasses 1 tsp. soda 

I tsp. salt 3 c. Wingold flour 

Mix thoroughly, then bake in gem tins. 

WHOLE WHEAT GEMS 

1 egg, beaten separately 2 tsp. salt 

I c. cream f c. whole wheat flour 

1 c. milk 1^ c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. sugar 

Add sugar, salt, milk, and cream to beaten yolk. Gradually add 
flour, then beat about 10 min. before folding in beaten white. Bake 
in gem pans in moderate oven 20 min. Graham flour may be used 
instead of whole wheat. 

JOHNNY CAKE 

1 c. corn meal 1 tblsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. Wingold flour 1 c. milk 

— 14 — 



I c. sugar 2 tblsp. melted butter 

1 tsp. salt 2 eggs, beaten light 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, then add milk, butter, and eggs. 
Stir vigorously as each is added. When baked, cut into squares and 
serve warm. 

POPOVERS 

2 c. Wingold flour 3 eggs, beaten light 
1 tsp. salt 2 c. milk 

Sift flour and salt into a bowl. Beat eggs 5 min., add milk, then 
gradually stir into flour mixture. Beat with Dover egg beater until 
full of air bubbles. Fill hot greased gem pans f full of mixture, then 
bake in hot oven until brown and popped over, about 40 min. 

PLAIN GINGER BREAD 

1 tblsp. butter 1 c. sour cream or milk 

1 c. brown sugar 1 large tsp. soda 

1 egg, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' ginger 

1 c. molasses 2| c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. salt 
Mix in order given, adding a little of all kinds of spices. 

KINDERGARTEN GINGER BREAD 

1 egg 4 tblsp. molasses 

4 tblsp. sugar 4 tblsp. milk 

4 tblsp. shortening 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ tsp. soda 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. each Watkins' ginger and 

cinnamon 

Break the egg into a bowl and beat for two min. with a Dover 
egg beater, then add the materials in the order given and beat thor- 
oughly. Drop into well greased gem or individual cake pans. Bake 
15 min. in moderate oven. 

GERMAN TOAST 

3 eggs 1 c. milk 

^ tsp. salt 8 slices stale bread 

2 tblsp. sugar 

Beat eggs slightly; add sugar and milk; strain into shallow dish. 
Dip bread into mixture. Cook on a hot, well greased griddle, brown 
on one side, turn and brown on the other side. Serve with butter 
and sugar or maple syrup. 

CREAM TOAST 

Toast 6 slices of dry bread golden brown. If edges of toast are 
hard, dip quickly into hot water. Arrange upon a hot platter and pour 
1 pt. White Sauce over all. 

EGGS A LA GOLDENROD 

Prepare cream toast, adding the whites of 4 hard cooked eggs, 
cut into small pieces, to sauce. Pour over toast; then force the yolks 
of the eggs through a potato ricer and sprinkle over the top. Gar- 
nish with parsley. 

— 15 — 



Cakes 



SOME HINTS FOR CAKE BAKING 

Accuracy in measurement of all materials is absolutely necessary. 
Every kitchen should be provided with glass or tin measuring cups, 
an egg whip for the white of the egg, a rotary beater for the yolks, a 
wooden spoon with slotted bowl for creaming of butter, and mixing. 
Prepare the pans first. Grease the bottom, but not the sides of the 
cake pans. Use vegetable oil or lard instead of butter for greasing 
the pans. Flour the sides and the bottom. A paper is necessary for 
fruit loaf cakes or for any cake baked in a long sheet. Do not grease 
either paper or pan, unless the paper does not entirely cover the bot- 
tom of the pan. Then grease the uncovered bottom and corners. 
After the pans are ready, measure all ingredients before beginning 
the mixing. Always sift the flour once before measuring. Then add 
the baking powder and sift two or three times. In making measure- 
ments, level off the cup or spoon with a knife. The proper proportion 
of baking powder is one level tsp. for each level c. of flour. The whites 
and yolks of eggs should be beaten separately unless otherwise directed. 
If the butter is cold and hard, warm the sugar. Never melt the butter. 
Begin the baking of cakes in a slow oven. As soon as the cake batter 
has risen to its full extent, increase the heat and when well set and 
lightly browned, reduce the heat. A cake containing many eggs may 
be toughened by too hot an oven. If sour milk or molasses is used, 
neutralize the acid with the smallest bit of soda and use about half as 
much baking powder as with sweet milk, or in the proportion of | 
level tsp. to each cup of flour. If fruit or nuts sink to the bottom of 
the cake, it shows that the batter is too thin. Cakes baked in shal- 
low or layer cake pans require about one-fifth more flour than when 
baked in loaf pans. A corresponding proportion of baking powder 
should also be used. When many egg whites are required a few drops 
of lemon juice or vinegar added to the whites when beaten foamy will 
be an advantage, as the acid has the property of keeping the air cells 
in tact. This is particularly true in making meringues. A cake is 
ready to be taken from the oven when it will spring back after a 
slight pressure of the finger. Many ovens have too great heat in the 
upper part; then place a shallow pan containing a little water onto the 
upper rack directly over the cake. The standard measuring cup is 
one containing one half pint. When dry, liquid, and fat ingredients 
are used in the same recipe, measure in order stated above, always 
using same cup. 

HIGH ALTITUDES 

Almost all cake recipes are compounded for low altitudes and the 
amount or proportion of flour depends on the altitude. For instance, 
a cake recipe calling for 2^ c. of flour in ordinary altitudes would in 
Butte or Denver, or any point in the mountains, require 3 c, about 
1/5 more flour. Use a little less shortening, less sugar, less baking 
powder, but add to the amount of flour and eggs. 

— 16 — 



Goodies for Christmas 

Thanksgiving and Special Occasions 
ALMOND BREAD 

6 eggs, beaten light 1 lb. almonds, cut fine lengthwise 

5 egg-yolks, beaten light 1 oz. citron, cut fine 

2 c. sugar 1 tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 lemon-rind, grated 1 tsp. Watkins' cloves 

I tsp. salt 1 scant qt. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Beat whole eggs and yolks together with sugar, lemon, salt, and 
spices 10 min. Add other ingredients, mixing flour and baking pow- 
der. Knead lightly on board; roll | in. thick; spread with beaten 
egg-yolk; cut long narrow strips and bake in medium oven. 

ALMOND CRESCENTS 

1 c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lb. almonds, chopped 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Mix flour and butter as for pie, add half the sugar and almonds 
and knead into a dough. Roll quite thin. Use cookie cutter to cut 
into small rounds, then into half moons or crescents. Place onto tins 
and bake in a moderate oven. When done, dip the hot cakes into 
the rest of the sugar, mixed with cinnamon. 

ALMOND CUTS 

f c. butter 1 c. almonds, chopped 

2 c. sugar, 1 white and 1 brown 4| c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, beaten light 2 tsp. soda 

J tsp. salt 1 tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, almonds, cinnamon; and soda, 
salt, and flour sifted together. Mix thoroughly. Divide into four 
parts and make four rolls about 12 in. long. Leave on plate all night. 
Cut off slices in the morning f in. thick. Bake in medium oven. 

ALMOND DATE PUFFS 

4 egg-whites, beaten very stiff 1 lb. dates, chopped 

1 c. sugar ^ lb. almonds, cut fine 

Pinch of salt 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

J tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar Lo the whites and beat 10 min., then add the almonds 
and dates and mix thoroughly. Fold in the flour mixed with the 
baking powder. Drop from spoon onto well greased inverted tins. 
Bake in a very slow oven until dry enough to leave the pan readily. 

— 17 — 



ALMOND DROPS 

1 lb. almonds, shaved 2 tsp. cornstarch 

1 lb. sugar 2 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

6 egg-whites, beaten stiff Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to whites, beat 15 min. Gradually fold in the other 
ingredients. Drop from spoon onto a well buttered tin and bake in 
cool oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS 

1 lb. almonds, chopped and pounded to a paste 

1 c. powdered sugar 6 egg-whites 

Beat whites very stiff; add sugar, beat again. Then add egg 
mixture by spoonful to almond paste, working it in carefully. Place 
a piece of white wrapping paper into a shallow baking tin. Do not 
grease it. Drop mixture from spoon onto this paper. Bake in cool 
oven about | hr. When done, cool, then turn paper over, wet the 
underside, and the cakes will drop off. 

ALMOND SQUARES 

^ lb. butter ^ lb. Wingold flour 

^ lb. sugar | lb. almonds, chopped fine 

2 eggs 1 lemon-rind, grated 

Put aside a part of the sugar and almonds to sprinkle over top 
of cakes. Take remainder of sugar and the flour — sift together 
several times. Cut the butter into this, using two knives, one in each 
hand, then add eggs, almonds, and lemon-rind. Roll dough about 
I in. thick, spread with beaten egg. Sprinkle with sugar and al- 
monds. Cut diamond shapes. Bake in medium oven. 

ALMOND STARS 

3 egg-yolks, beaten light 1 c. Wingold flour 

I c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J lb. almonds Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to yolks and beat 5 min. Add almonds, flour sifted 
with baking powder, and salt. Roll out, cut with star cookie cutter, 
brush with beaten egg, then bake in rather hot oven until pale yellow. 

ALMOND STICKS 

6 eggs 1 lb. whole almonds 

1 lb. sugar Ij lb. Wingold flour 

1 lemon-rind, grated 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

Break eggs into baking dish, add sugar and beat together until 
very light. Add lemon rind and whole almonds, then flour sifted 
with baking powder. Work together, then make 2 or 3 long narrow 

— 18 — 



rolls, pat down, and let stand over night. When ready to bake, cut 
off thin slices with very sharp knife and bake in medium oven. 

ALMOND STRIPS 

4 eggs, well beaten 1 tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

2 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' cloves 
^ c. almonds, cut fine 4 level c. Wingold flour 

1 lemon-rind, grated 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J tsp. salt 

Beat sugar and eggs 10 min., add almonds and lemon-rind. Sift 
other ingredients together and add. Roll out on floured baking 
board, cut into long narrow strips, and bake until medium brown. 

ALMOND WAFERS 

7 egg-yolks, boiled | lb. almonds, chopped 

3 eggs, well beaten 2 scant qts. Wingold flour 

3 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mash the boiled yolks, add to eggs and sugar, beat 10 min. Add 
almonds, flour and baking powder sifted together. Knead lightly; 
then roll out | in. thick; spread with melted butter, then sprinkle 
with a mixture of sugar and finely cut almonds. 

ANISE DROPS 

4 eggs 2 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 
J tsp. salt 1 tsp. Watkins' anise flavor 

Beat eggs 10 min.; add sugar, beat 5 min.; add the other ingredi- 
ents and beat 15 min. Drop from spoon onto well greased tins an inch 
apart, then let stand over night. Do not disturb cakes. In morn- 
ing bake in moderate oven. Unusual and delicious. 

ANISE STICKS 

8 eggs, beaten separately 3 tsp. anise seed 

3i c. sugar 4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. butter ^ tsp. salt 

h lb. almonds, chopped Wingold flour to make soft dough 

Mix dough in the evening, in order given, sifting part of the flour, 
baking powder, and salt together, and then add beaten whites. Beat 
well, then add enough more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, 
cut into long narrow strips, and let stand over night. In morning 
bake in medium oven. 

BISCUIT TARTS 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ lemon, juice and grated rind 
— 19 — 



Beat yolks, add sugar, beat 5 min., add lemon and flour sifted 
with baking powder. Fold in the beaten whites. Butter mufiin tins 
and till each form half full. Bake in medium oven. 

BISHOP'S BREAD 

f c. sugar 5 c. almonds, cut fine 

2 eggs ^ c. raisins, cut fine 

Wingold flour enough to make a stiff dough 

Beat eggs and sugar very light, then add almonds, raisins, and 
flour. Bake in flat pan. When thoroughly baked, cut into long 
narrow strips. Toast these in oven to a dark yellow color on all sides. 

BROWNIES 

J c. melted butter 2 sq. chocolate 

1 c. sugar ^ c. broken nuts 

1 egg, well beaten ^ c. Wingold flour 

^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Melt chocolate and butter, add sugar, egg, nuts, and flour mixed 
with baking powder. Mix thoroughly; bake in shallow pan in mod- 
erate oven. Cut finger shapes when partly cooled. 

BROWN PEPPERNUTS 

1 c. butter and lard mixed 2^ qts. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 heaping tblsp. soda 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder; 

^ tsp. salt 1 tblsp. each Watkins' cloves and 

2^ c. syrup or molasses cardamom 

1 lemon-rind, grated 

Boil and cool syrup or molasses. Cream sugar and shortening, 
add eggs, lemon-rind, salt, spices, and molasses. Dissolve soda in a 
little water or milk and add; then w^ork in the flour. Let dough stand 
at least 24 hrs. in warm place, the longer it stands, the better. When 
ready to bake, work dough into long narrow rolls, cut off pieces and 
shape into balls; press these flat, and dip upper side into granulated 
sugar. Bake in medium oven at least 15 min. Keep in stone jars. 

CAKES IN FORM OF AN S 

9 oz. butter and 2 eggs, well beaten 

9 oz. sugar, sifted together 1 lemon-rind, grated 

16 oz. Wingold flour Cardamom, to suit taste 

All ingredients should be cold and worked together very rapidly. 
Into the sifted sugar and flour cut the butter, using two knives to do 
the cutting. When thoroughly mixed, add eggs, lemon-rind, and 
cardamom. This dough will be very stiff. Work into long narrow 
rolls. Set into cold place for a few hours or over night. Cut small 

— 20 — 



pieces from roll. With the hand on baking-board roll this out and 
shape into an S. Dip this into beaten egg, then into sugar, and bake 
in medium hot oven to dark yellow color. 

CELESTIAL FOOD 

^ lb. dates, cut fine 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ lb. walnuts, cut fine 6 eggs, beaten very light 

10 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 c. sugar 

Beat eggs and sugar very light. Mix dates, walnuts, flour and 
baking powder, and add to egg mixture. Spread very thin in shallow 
pan. Cut into small pieces; sprinkle powdered sugar over top, or 
serve with whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE ALMOND MACAROONS 

3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff 1 c. chocolate, grated 

1 c. powdered sugar | lb. almonds, chopped 
J tsp. salt 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Add sugar to whites and beat 10 min. Fold in the other ingre- 
dients. Dip hands into cold water, roll mixture into balls size of a 
hickory nut and bake on well greased inverted pans in very moderate 
oven. 

CHOCOLATE ALMOND PUFFS 

6 egg-whites, beaten very stiff 1 lb. chopped almonds 

2 c. sugar 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 lemon-rind, grated ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon J tsp. salt 

1 c. chocolate, grated 

Add sugar, lemon, and cinnamon to beaten whites, then beat 15 
min. Set aside a sauce-dish full of this mixture. To rest of mixture, 
add almonds, flour, sifted with baking powder and salt, and lastly the 
chocolate. Drop from spoon. On top of each cake put a little of the 
mixture set aside. Bake in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE ALMOND SHELLS 

3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff | lb. almonds, chopped 
1 c. sugar 3 oz. chocolate, grated 

Pinch of salt 

Beat sugar, salt, and eggs 10 min. Fold in almonds and choco- 
late. Drop from spoon onto bottom of inverted tins, well greased. 
Bake in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE BARS 

I c. butter 1 scant c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

— 21 — 



2 eggs, well beaten 2 sq. chocolate, melted 

1 c. walnuts, chopped 

Add sugar to creamed butter, then add eggs, flour sifted with 
baking powder, and the chocolate. Beat well before adding the nuts. 
Spread | in. thick in buttered tin and bake f hr. in very slow oven. 
This should be a little sticky when first baked. Cut into bars. 

CHOCOLATE BROETCHEN 

3 egg-whites, beaten stiff | lb. blanched almonds, chopped 
1 c. sugar 2 sc]. chocolate, grated 

Beat sugar and whites 15 min. Add almonds and chocolate. 
Drop from spoon onto well greased inverted tins. Slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE KISSES 

6 egg-whites, beaten very stiff 10 oz. chocolate, grated 

10 oz. sugar 6 oz. almonds, chopped 

Beat sugar and whites 10 min. Add chocolate and almonds. 
Drop from spoon onto inverted greased tins. Just about dry these 
cakes in the oven, for the slower they bake, the better the result. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS 

3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff | lb. almonds, chopped 

1 c. sugar 2 oz. chocolate, grated 

Pinch of salt 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat sugar, salt, and eggs 10 min. Drop from spoon onto bottom 
of inverted tin, well greased. Bake in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS 

f c. sugar I heaping c. Wingold flour 

I lb. chocolate, grated 4 egg-whites 

Beat egg-whites to very stiff froth. Mix quickly with the sugar, 
chocolate, and flour. Drop small portions from spoon and bake in 
medium hot oven 

CHOCOLATE ROCKS 

I c. butter 1 c. dates, chopped 

1 c. brown sugar 1 c. nuts, chopped 

1 whole egg and 1 egg-yolk, beaten light ^ tsp. soda 

2 sq. chocolate, melted i tsp. salt 

I c. milk H c. Wingold flour 

Mix in order given, sifting flour, soda, and salt together. Drop 
from spoon onto well greased tin. Bake in medium oven. 

— 22 — 



CHOCOLATE SHELLS 

2 eggs, beaten separately ^ lb. almonds, chopped 

1 c. sugar 1 lemon-rind, grated 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 1 oz. citron, cut line 

2 sq. chocolate, grated Wingold flour to roll out 
Pinch of salt 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add beaten yolks to beaten whites, add sugar and beat. Then 
add the other ingredients, sifting part of flour with baking powder. 
Add enough more flour to make dough stiff enough to roll out. Cut 
with small cookie cutter, then spread following mixture onto each cake 
before baking: 
1 egg, well beaten ^ c. sugar Little lemon juice 

Bake in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE SPICE MACAROONS 

4 eggs, beaten very light 1 tsp. each Watkins' cloves and 

1 lb. sugar cinnamon 

1 c. chocolate, grated 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. cocoanut 1 lb. Wingold flour 

I tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, sifting flour, baking powder, and salt together 
Drop from spoon onto well buttered tin and bake in medium oven. 

CHOCOLATE STRIPS 

^ c. butter 1| sq. chocolate 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 eggs, well beaten Ij c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. salt I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given. Beat thoroughly. Bake in thin layer in 
shallow pan in hot oven. Brush with egg-white and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Cut into narrow strips while hot. 

CHRISTMAS COOKIES 

4 eggs, well beaten I tsp. pulverized hartshorn 

2 c. sugar Wingold flour to stiffen 

Beat sugar and eggs 1 hr. Add hartshorn and work in enough 
flour to make dough stiff enough to roll. Roll out and cut. Let 
stand in a warm place over night. Sprinkle greased baking tins with 
anise seeds. Place the cookies on these and bake in a slow oven. 

CHRISTMAS JOYS 

1 c. figs I c. candied orange peel 

1 c. walnuts I c. candied cherries 

1 tblsp. lemon juice 
— 23 — 



Put all through food chopper, then add lemon juice and knead 
until thoroughly mixed. Toss onto a board well dusted with pow- 
dered sugar. Roll out to j in. in thickness and shape into rounds 
with a very small cutter. When they have stiffened, frost the tops 
with a plain orange icing. Then decorate with bits of angelica and 
small red berries made from candied cherries to simulate holly. 

COCOANUT PUFFS 

1| c. cocoanut, chopped fine H tblsp. cornstarch 

3 egg-whites ^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Add salt to whites of eggs, beat very stiff, gradually beat in sugar 
and cocoanut. Put mixture into double boiler and cook 20 min. 
Remove from boiler, add cornstarch and vanilla. Drop from spoon 
and bake in moderate oven to light brown color. 

COCOANUT WAFERS 

3 eggs, beaten very light ^ tsp. salt 

2 c. sugar 1 c. shredded cocoanut 
2 tblsp. butter, melted 2 c. rolled oats 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar to eggs and beat 10 min. Then add butter, vanilla 
and salt. Fold in the cocoanut, and the oats mixed with the baking 
powder. Drop from spoon onto well greased and floured inverted tins. 
Bake light brown in moderate oven. 

DAENISCH GEBAECK 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 scant qt. Wingold flour 

1 scant c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ lb. almonds, chopped 

Cream sugar and butter, add almonds and flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder. Knead lightly and form into long narrow rolls. Let 
stand over night. In morning cut off narrow pieces and bake in 
medium oven. 

DATE GOODIES 

1 c. brown sugar I tsp. salt 

^ c. lard or butter 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 c. water 1 tsp. soda 

2 c. oatmeal ground thru chopper Wingold flour 

Use flour enough to roll thin. Cut into small cookies. When 
baked put filling between two cakes. 

Filling 

I c. brown sugar | lb. dates, chopped fine 

I c. water 1 tblsp. lemon juice 

Boil to a paste and spread between cakes. 

— 24 — 



DATE STICKS 

2 eggs, well beaten Pinch of salt 

1 c. powdered sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. chopped walnuts G tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. chopped dates 

Add sugar to eggs and beat; add other ingredients, putting in 
flour sifted with baking powder last. Bake in shallow pan in slow 
oven. Dust top with powdered sugar and cut while warm into nar- 
row strips. 

DELICIOUS TARTS (German) 

f c. butter 3 scant c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

3 egg-yolks | tsp. cloves 

I lemon-rind, grated 

Mix quickly as for pie crust; work into smooth dough; roll out 
I in. thick; cut into three-cornered pieces; spread with jam; then bend 
corners up and pinch together. Bake on tins dusted with flour in 
rather hot oven. 

EGG CAKES 

8 egg-yolks, well beaten 3 c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J tsp. salt 1 c. chopped dates 

1 tblsp. each Watkins' cinnamon 1 c. chopped walnuts 

and nutmeg 1 lemon-rind, grated 
1 tsp. Watkins' cloves 

Beat sugar, salt, eggs, lemon, and spices 15 min. Add flour with 
baking powder, and then nuts and dates. Mix thoroughly. Drop 
from spoon, or work into little balls. Bake in medium oven. 

EGG-KRINGEL 

8 egg-yolks, boiled hard 4 level c. Wingold flour 

1 c. butter ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I c. sugar 1 lemon-rind, grated 

Crush the egg-yolks; cream them together with the butter, sugar, 
and lemonrrind. Add the flour sifted with baking powder. Work 
the dough into a long narrow roll; cut off pieces; roll them between 
hand and board into thin narrow rolls, join ends to form circles. 
Spread with beaten yolk and dip into granulated sugar. Bake in hot 
oven to medium brown. 

— 25 — 



EGG-RINGS 

4 egg-yolks, boiled hard 5 oz. sugar 

1 egg-yolk, raw 1 lemon-rind, grated 

1 lb. butter f lb. Wingold flour 

Drop 4 raw egg-yolks into boiling water; boil until hard. Cream 
them with spoon and add raw yolk. Cream butter and sugar, add 
egg mixture, lemon-rind, and flour. Make long roll of dough. Cut 
off pieces, roll these between hand and board, and form into circles. 
Dip into beaten egg, then into mixture of sugar and finely cut al- 
monds. Bake in medium hot oven to dark yellow color. 

EIER PLAETZCHEN 

4 egg-yolks, boiled hard and 1 c. sugar 

mashed 4 scant c. Wingold flour 

2 raw egg-yolks 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. butter 

Cream butter and sugar, add boiled and raw yolks mixed. Work 
in the flour sifted with baking powder. Mix thoroughly, roll, cut 
out, and spread with 2 egg-whites beaten with 1 tblsp. sugar; over 
this sprinkle chopped almonds. 

EIGELB GEBAECK 

1 c. melted butter 4 scant c. Wingold flour 

4 tblsp. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

5 egg-yolks, beaten light 

Roll out thin and cover with following frosting before baking: 
5 egg-whites, beaten stift' 1 lemon, grated rind and little of juice 

1 c. sugar J lb. blanched almonds, chopped 

Beat sugar and whites, then add lemon and almonds. Bake in 
medium oven. 

ELISEN LEBKUCHEN 

7 egg-whites, beaten stiff j tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

2 c. brown sugar 3 oz. citron, cut very fine 

1 lemon-rind, grated 3 oz. candied orange-peel, cut fine 

J tsp. crushed cardamom 1 lb. almonds, grated 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon ^ tsp. salt 

Add salt to whites and beat very stiff; then add all ingredients 
except the almonds and beat at least ^ hr. Then add the almonds. 
Spread the dough | in. thick onto well greased and floured inverted 
tins and bake in slow oven. Cut into small oblongs, and spread 
while still warm with sugar and water boiled until it strings. Spread 
while hot, without beating. 

— 26 — 



FARINA DROPS 

4 egg-whites, beaten stiff j lb. farina, or cream of wheat 

1 c. sugar I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

§ lb. blanched almonds, chopped | lemon, juice and grated rind 

Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to whites, beat 5 min. Add almonds, farina mixed 
with baking powder, lemon, and salt. Drop from spoon onto well 
greased inverted tins and bake in slow oven. 

FARINA MACAROONS 

^ lb. almonds, chopped fine 6 egg-whites 

I lb. sugar j lb. farina 

Beat egg-whites to stiff froth, add sugar, beat again. Add al- 
monds and farina. Drop from spoon and bake in medium oven. 

GOETTER SPEISE (Food of the Gods) 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. powdered sugar j lb. almonds, cut fine 

1 lb. dates, cut fine ^ lb. walnuts, chopped 

2 heaping tblsp. Wingold flour j tsp. salt 

Add sugar to beaten yolks, beat 5 min. Then add nuts and 
salt, then the dates floured with flour and baking powder mixed. 
Lastly fold in the whites. Bake in shallow tin in medium oven. 
Cut into pieces. Serve with whipped cream, or simply sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

HOLLY WREATHS 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 egg-white 

1 c. sugar 4 scant c. Wingold flour 

2 egg-yolks 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lemon-rind, grated 

Cream sugar and butter, add eggs and beat well. When creamy 
add lemon, and flour mixed with baking powder. Roll out dough 
and cut into rings with doughnut cutter. Beat the white of one egg 
slightly and brush over top of rings. Sprinkle with pistachio nuts, 
blanched and chopped. Put little round bits of candied cherries, 
three in a bunch, here and there to represent holly berries. 

LEBKUCHEN 

4 eggs, beaten very light 1 lemon-rind, grated 

2 c. sugar 1 tblsp. each Watkins' nutmeg and 

4 level c. Wingold flour cinnamon 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 tsp. Watkins' cloves 

I citron, cut fine j tsp. salt 

— 27 — 



Beat sugar, eggs and spices 15 min. Add other ingredients, sift- 
ing flour and baking powder together. Knead thoroughly on baking 
board. Roll out and cut into diamond shapes. Bake in medium 
oven. While still hot, spread with syrup made of sugar moistened 
with boiling water. Boil syrup until it strings, then quickly spread 
on cakes. When dry it will be milk-white. 

MACAROONS 

1 lb. sugar 1 lb. almonds, chopped fine 

5 egg-whites, not beaten 

Mix sugar and almonds thoroughly. Then mix with unbeaten 
egg-whites. Let stand 30 min. Bake in slow oven. Walnuts, 
hickory, or hazel nuts may be used instead of almonds. 

MANDELBERGE 

3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff | lb. almonds, cut lengthwise 

1 c. sugar J tsp. Watkins cinnamon 

J tsp. salt I tsp. cornstarch 

Beat sugar, eggs, cinnamon, and salt | hr. Add almonds and 
cornstarch. Drop from spoon onto an inverted greased pan. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

MANDELKRAENZE 

1^ c. butter 4 level c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 egg-yolks, well beaten ^ lemon-rind, grated 

Cream butter, add sugar, yolk, and lemon; beat 10 min. Add 
flour sifted with baking powder. Quickly work the dough into long 
narrow roll. Cut off pieces, roll between hand and board, connect 
ends, forming circles. Dip into egg-whites and then into a mixture 
of sugar, cinnamon, and finely cut almonds. 

MANDELNUESSE 

J c. butter ^ lb. almonds, chopped 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Pinch of salt | orange-rind, grated 

Cream butter, add sugar, eggs, orange and almonds; beat 15 
min. Sift flour, salt, and baking powder; add to the above. Form 
small balls, flatten these, dip into egg, sugar and finely cut almonds and 
bake in slow oven. 

MANDELPLAETZCHEN 

1^ c. butter 3 scant c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, well beaten | lemon-rind, grated 

f lb. almonds 
— 28 — 



Blanch and chop the almonds. Cream butter and add eggs. 
Mix sugar and almonds; add | of this mixture to butter and eggs, 
setting aside the remainder for the top. Stir in the flour sifted with 
baking powder and salt, and the lemon rind. Roll out to j in. in 
thickness; cut into diamonds 3 in. long; spread egg-white over the 
top and sprinkle with remainder of sugar and almonds. Bake in 
moderate oven to a golden brown. 

MANDELSCHNITTEN 

1| c. butter 3 tblsp. sweet cream 

4 scant c. Wingold flour f lb. almonds, chopped 
Ij c. sugar 1 lemon-rind, grated 

2 eggs, well beaten Seeds of 3 pods cardamom, crushed 

Mix quickly as for pie. Cut butter into flour, using two knives* 
then add sugar, eggs, cream, lemon, cardamom, and almonds. Rol 
very thin, spread with beaten egg yolk, then cut into small 
diamond shapes and bake in medium oven to light yellow color. 

MERINGUE TARTS 

I c. butter 3 egg-yolks, well beaten 

^ c. sugar I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. Wingold flour 

Add sugar to creamed butter, then add eggs, and flour sifted with 
baking powder. Roll out very thin. Cover with the following: 

3 egg-whites, beaten stiff 1 c. cocoanut 

1 c. powdered sugar | c. shaved almonds 

Beat sugar and beaten whites, add cocoanut and almonds, and 
spread on top of first dough. This may be done before or after cut- 
ting cakes into diamond or round shapes. Bake in rather slow oven. 

MILAN SLICES 

5 lb. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. thick sour cream 
^ lb. butter 1 egg, or 2 egg-yolks 

6 oz. sugar 

Work together quickly, roll out, cut into diamond shapes. Spread 
with egg, bake quickly. When cold, put small heap of fruit jelly on 
top of each slice. 

MOCHA CAKES 

I c. butter, creamed 2^ c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

4 egg-yolks, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
I c. milk 

— 29 — 



Mix in order given. Bake in shallow tins. When baked and 
cooled, cut into ecjiial squares or oblongs and frost on all sides with^ 
I c. butter, creamed 3 tblsp. cream 

Ih c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

The frosting must be quite stiff. When frosted on all sides, roll 
the cakes in chopped blanched almonds, that have been roasted in 
the oven. Peanuts may also be used. 

NEW MACAROONS 

4 egg-whites, beaten stiff 1 c. chopped nuts 

1 c. sugar 3 c. corn flakes 

1 c. cocoanut Pinch of salt 

Add sugar and salt to whites and beat 10 min. Add other in- 
gredients and mix thoroughly. Drop from spoon onto inverted greased 
tin and bake in slow oven until delicately brown. 

NUERNBERGER LEBKUCHEN 

10 eggs, beaten light 1 lemon-rind, grated 

2 c. sugar 1 tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 
I lb. almonds, chopped 1 tsp. Watkins' cloves 

1 lb. citron, cut very fine 4 c. Wingold flour 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Beat sugar and eggs 10 min. Add other ingredients, mixing 
thoroughly. Spread dough onto well greased and floured inverted cake 
tins about j in. thick. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake. 
While still warm cut into oblong pieces. 

NUT KISSES 

2 egg-whites, beaten very stiff 1 c. chopi)ed nuts 

1 c. sugar 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

J tsp. salt I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Drop from spoon. Place h nut onto each cookie and bake in very 
moderate oven. 

OUR COCOANUT CAKES 

4 egg-whites, beaten very stiff' j tsp. salt 

I5 c. sugar 2 c. cocoanut 

f c. cracker crumbs 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar to beaten whites; beat 5 min. Add crumbs, baking 
powder, and salt mixed, then cocoanut, and vanilla. Drop from 
spoon onto well greased inverted tins. Bake in medium oven to golden 
brown color. 

— 30 — 



OUR HONEY CAKES 

1 qt. honey 1 tblsp. each Watkins' cloves and 

1 heaping tblsp. butter cinnamon 

1 lb. almonds, cut fine 1 oz. potash 

1| lb. sugar | tsp. salt 

10 eggs, beaten light Wingold flour to stiffen 

1 lemon-rind, grated 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Boil honey and butter. When cool, add spices, lemon, salt, sugar, 
and potash dissolved in little boiling water. Then stir in the beaten 
eggs and the almonds. Sift baking powder with part of the flour and 
add. Then work in enough more flour to make dough as stiff as bread 
dough. Let stand over night. In morning roll out ^ in. thick. 
Place rolled dough into well greased tins without cutting. Bake in 
medium oven from 20 min. to | hr. While still hot brush with frost- 
ing made of 1 c. sugar boiled with | c. iDoiling water. Boil until it 
strings, then quickly brush onto cake, without beating. Then cut 
cake into oblong pieces. Keep in covered stone jars. 

PECAN MACAROONS 

1 egg-white 1 c. pecan nuts 

1 c. brown sugar j tsp. salt 

Beat egg very stiff", gradually add sugar while beating. Sprinkle 
salt over chopped nuts and fold into the egg-mixture. Drop from 
spoon. Bake about 10 min. in moderate oven. This makes 24 little 
cakes. 

PEPPER BALLS 

1 c. butter 1 tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon and ginger 
4 c. sugar | tsp. Watkins' pepper 

2 qts. syrup 1 tblsp. Watkins' vanilla 
4 eggs, w^ell beaten ^ tsp. salt 

^ lb. almonds, cut fine Wingold flour to stiffen 

1 tsp. soda, dissolved in 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

water 

Boil syrup; when cool add to creamed butter and sugar; add eggs 
and other ingredients, using flour enough to make stiff dough. Roll 
small balls with hands, or roll and cut out on board. Place an almond 
on each one. ' 

PEPPER NUTS 

2 lbs. lard 1 tsp. soda 

2 lbs. brown sugar 1 c. hot coffee 

4 lbs. dark syrup 1 tblsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, 

— 31 — 



2 lemons, grated rind and juice cloves, and cardamom 

^ tsp. salt Wingold flour to stiffen 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bring lard, sugar, and syrup to a boil. When cooled add other 
ingredients, dissolving soda in coffee, and flour enough to make a stiff 
dough. Roll small balls, the size of a hickory nut; place almonds on 
top of each, and bake in medium oven. Anise seed may be added. 

SANDPLAETTCHEN 

^ c. butter, creamed If c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten 

Add sugar gradually to creamed butter, then add egg, and flour 
sifted with baking powder. Chill the dough, then roll | in. thick. 
Shape with diamond shaped cutter. Brush over with egg white and 
sprinkle with sugar inixed with cinnamon. Split blanched almonds. 
Arrange three halves on each cake. Place onto greased tin and bake 
in medium oven. 

SAND TARTS 

1 lb, butter j tsp. salt 

1 lb. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

6 eggs, well beaten Wingold flour enough to roll out 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, and flour sifted with baking 
powder and salt. Roll very thin, cover with beaten egg, then sprinkle 
with following mixture: 

J c. almonds, shaved fine 1 lemon-rind, grated 

1 c. sugar 
Cut diamond shaped pieces and bake light brown in medium oven. 

S. GEBAECK 

^ c. butter 5 egg-yolks, beaten light 

2 c. Wingold flour | c. sugar 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 lemon-rind, grated 

Mix butter and flour, sifted with baking powder, by using two 
knives to cut butter into flour. Add sugar to yolks and beat 5 min., 
then add to first mixture. Add lemon; then lightly knead the dough 
into several long narrow rolls; cut off narrow strips; roll these between 
hand and board into long narrow rolls; form these into an S; set into 
cold place for 1 hr. ; then bake in medium oven to pale yellow color. 

SNOW BALLS 

1 c. butter, creamed 3 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. milk 5 egg-whites, beaten stiff 

— 32 — 



Bake in deep square tins. When cold, or the day following cut 
into 2 in. squares, taking off outer crust so as to leave it all white. 
Take each piece on a fork, frost on all sides, then cover with freshly 
grated cocoanut on all sides. Angel food can be used instead of above 
recij^e. 

SPRINGERLE 

5 eggs, beaten very light 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lb. powdered sugar Wingold flour to knead 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla Anise seeds 

Beat eggs and sugar one hr., add vanilla, and flour, sifted with 
baking powder, enough to knead lightly. For cutting follow direc- 
tions of next recipe. 

SPRINGERLE 

1 tblsp. butter 4 level c. Wingold flour 

4 large eggs 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. sugar 1 lemon-rind, grated 
Pinch of salt Anise seeds 

Cream butter, add to beaten eggs, add sugar and beat 15 min. 
Add salt, lemon-rind, and part of flour mixed with baking powder. 
Use rest of flour to knead dough lightly on baking board; then roll it 
out to thickness of | in. Use springerle rolling pin over this rolled 
dough, to press the figures onto the dough. Cut cakes apart; put 
onto baking board on which anise seeds have been sprinkled. Let 
stand over night. In morning place cakes onto well greased tins and 
bake in warm oven to light yellow color. 

WHITE PEPPERNUTS (Pfeffernuesse) 

8 eggs, beaten very light ^ lb. almonds, cut fine 

4 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

4 oz. citron, cut fine ^ tsp. each Watkins' pepper and 

2 lemon-rinds, grated cloves 

I tsp. salt 8 level c. Wingold flour 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
Beat sugar and eggs 15 min. Add citron, lemon-rind, and al- 
monds. Sift dry ingredients together and add. Roll dough as thick 
as a thumb; use small form to cut out cakes, the size of a large hickory 
nut. Put onto well greased tins and let stand 24 hrs. Just before 
baking, turn each cake upside down. Bake in medium oven. 

WHITE PEPPERNUTS 

1 lb., scant, Wingold flour, sifted 1 lemon-rind, grated 

1 tsp., scant, Calumet baking ])owder 1 tsp., scant, cloves 
1 lb. sugar 1 tblsp. cinnamon 

4 large eggs 1 tsp. nutmeg 

Nuts may be added to these cakes. 
— 33 — 



Beat eggs very light, add sugar and beat 15 min., then lemon- 
rind, spices, and flour. Drop from spoon and bake in medium oven. 

YELLOW PEPPERNUTS 

10 egg-yolks, beaten light 4 level c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 tblsp. each Watkins' nutmeg 1 lemon-rind, grated 

and cinnamon | tsp. salt 

Beat sugar, eggs and lemon-rind 15 min. Sift other ingredients 
together and add. Shape into little balls, size of a hickory nut; place 
half a blanched almond on top of each and bake in medium oven. 

ZIMMETSTERNE 

(Very Good) 
6 egg-whites 1 lemon-rind, grated 

2 c. sugar, sifted 1 tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 lb. almonds, chopped fine. 2 tblsp., level, Wingold flour 

Beat egg-whites very stiff, add sugar, lemon-rind, and cinnamon 
and beat 15 minutes. Put aside a sauce dish full of this mixture. To 
rest of mixture add the almonds and then carefully fold in the flour. 
Drop from spoon. On top of each little heap put a bit of mixture set 
aside. Bake slowly to light brown color. 



Layer Cakes 



ALMOND CREAM CAKE 

10 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 c. flour 

I5 c. powdered sugar 1 heaping tsp. cream of tartar 

Fold in sugar, and flour mixed with cream of tarter, without 
beating. Bake in three tins. Put together with following icing: 
1 c. sweet cream 1 tsp. cornstarch 

I c. sugar J lb. blanched almonds 

3 egg yolks 

Dissolve cornstarch in part of cream. Boil cream and stir other 
ingredients into it. Boil and stir until smooth enough to spread. 

A NO. 1 CAKE 

3 eggs 2 c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I tsp. salt I c. cold water 

Beat eggs 1 min., add sugar, beat 5 min., add 1 c. flour, beat 1 
min., add the second c. flour sifted with the salt and baking powder, 

— 34 — 



alternately witd the water, and beat 1 min. Bake in layers. Put 
together with any filling or icing. 

APPLE JELLY CAKE 

1 heaping tblsp. butter 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 egg, well beaten 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given and bake in layers. Put following mixture 
between layers: 

2 large apples, grated 1 egg, well beaten 

1 c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Mix thoroughly and boil 3 min. When cold put between layers. 

BANANA CAKE 

f c. butter 3 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
5 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 tsp. Watkins' lemon extract 
1 c. milk Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to creamed butter; add egg-whites; and then milk, 
and flour sifted with salt and baking powder; add lemon. Bake in 
layers; for filling use mixture of egg-white and powdered sugar, or 
boiled icing. Spread on layers and cover with sliced bananas. 

BURNT SUGAR CAKE 

To prepare burnt sugar, melt 1 c. sugar till it is liquid and throws 
off an intense smoke, then add | c. boiling water, stirring rapidly. 
Let boil a moment before using in following cake: 

1 c. butter 3 tsp. burnt sugar 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins 'vanilla 

2 egg yolks, beaten light ^ c. Wingold flour 

1 c. water 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. Wingold flour 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Mix first 5 ingredients and beat 5 min. Then add other ingredi- 
ents, adding w^hites last. Bake in layers, use following icing: 
2 c. brown sugar ^ c. milk 1 tblsp. burnt sugar 

Boil till it hardens in cold water, add few drops of vanilla and 
beat till creamy enough to spread on cake. 

CARAMEL CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 c. milk 

2 c. sugar 3 scant c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

— 35 — 



Beat until very light, bake in layers, put together with following 
tilling: 
3 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

3 tblsp. water 1 lb. cho])ped nuts 
f c. butter 

Keep back part of the nuts to sprinkle on top. Boil all ingredi- 
ents seven or eight min. and beat until cold. Spread between layers 
and on top, sprinkling nuts on top. 

CHEAP CAKE 

1 egg, beaten light 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

I c. sugar I tsp. salt 

1 c. sour cream 1^ c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. soda 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Use any filling or icing. See index. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

I c. butter ^ 2 c. Wingold flour 

1^ c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

4 egg yolks, beaten light ^ c. sour milk 

I lb. chocolate 2 egg-whites, beaten stiff 

1 c. warm water 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks, and chocolate dissolved in 
the water. Sift flour with ^ tsp. soda, add to the above, then dissolve 
the other | tsp. soda in the sour milk and add. Then fold in the egg- 
whites and add the vanilla. Bake in layers. Put together with any 
icing. See index. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE 

^ c. butter, creamed ^ c. boiling water 

2 c. brown sugar ^ c. sour milk 
2 eggs, beaten 1 tsp. soda 

2 squares of chocolate 2 c. Wingold flour 

Dissolve chocolate in boiling water, and soda in sour milk. Mix 
cake in order given. Bake in two layers, put together with following 
filling: 1 c. sweet cream, whipped; add 1 c. sugar, and 1 tsp. vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE 

6 eggs, beaten separately | lb. chocolate, grated 

1 c. sugar J lb. almonds, chopped 

3 rolled Zwieback 1 lemon rind, grated 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder | tsp. Watkins' cloves and cinnamon 

Beat sugar and yolks very light, add other ingredients, folding 
whites in last. Bake in layers. Use any filling. See index. 

— 36 — 



CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

5 eggs 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
f c. grated chocolate Pinch of salt 

4 large tblsp. Wingold flour 

Beat eggs 15 min., add sugar, beat again; add chocolate; flour 
sifted with baking powder and salt; add vanilla. Bake in layers. 
Use any filling. See index. 

COCOA CAKE 

2 c. sugar h c. boiling water 

1 c. butter ^ c. cocoa 

2 eggs, well beaten 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
^ c. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 c. Wingold flour 

Add 1 c. sugar to creamed butter; add 1 c. sugar to beaten eggs; 
beat together; mix cocoa, milk, and water and add; then flour and 
baking powder mixed; flavor. Bake in layers and spread with icing. 
See icings. 

COCOANUT CHOCOLATE CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed ^ c. cocoanut 

1 c. sugar ^ c. chocolate, grated 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. Wingold flour 

^ c. milk 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bake in layers, put them together with custard filling. Coat 
top with any icing. 

COFFEE CAKE 

3 tblsp. ground coffee ^ c. coffee 

1^ c. boiling water 3 c. Wingold flour 

I c. butter 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I c. browm sugar | c. black walnuts, chopped 
3 eggs, beaten separately 

Simmer coffee and boiling water 10 min., strain. Mix other in- 
gredients as for ordinary cake, using | c. of the strained coffee. Bake 
in two layers, putting them together with the following icing: 

1 tsp. butter, melted, 1| c. confectioners' sugar, enough coffee 
liquor to make of right consistency to spread. Beat thoroughly. 

COMMON LAYER CAKE 

I c. butter 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

— 37 — 



3 eggs, beaten light 2 c. Wingold flour 

Pinch of salt 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or 

^ grated orange rind 

Mix in order given and beat well. Bake in layers. Use any 
filling. See index. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

3 eggs, beaten separately 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1| c. sugar I c. boiling water 

1§ c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Pinch of salt 

Mix in order given, sifting flour, salt, and baking powder to- 
gether. Beat well. Bake in layers and fill with following: 
1 c. milk 2 tblsp. sugar 

1 tblsp. butter 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 egg-yolk, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Pinch of salt 

Mix flour and sugar with 2 tblsp. of the milk, add yolk and beat 
well. Boil rest of milk and butter, and add to this the first mixture, 
stirring constantly. 

CUSTARD CAKE 

4 eggs, beaten light 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 tblsp. cold water 

Bake in layers. Use following filling: 
1 egg, beaten 1 c. milk 

1 tblsp. butter 1 tblsp. cornstarch 

h c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Coat top of cake with chocolate icing. 

DELICIOUS CRUMB CAKE 

1 c. butter and lard mixed 4 scant c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. milk 

Mix flour and baking powder, and shortening as for pie crust, add 
sugar, then put aside a saucerful to sprinkle on top of cakes before 
baking. To the remainder add eggs, milk and vanilla. Bake in 
three layers. Put together with any filling. See index. 

DELICIOUS MOLASSES CAKE 

2 tblsp. butter 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 1 c. sour milk 

— 38 — 



2 eggs 1 c. molasses 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon and cloves 2^ c. Wingold flour 

Dissolve soda in sour milk. Bake in two layers in moderate 
oven. Put together with boiled icing, add 1 c. raisins just before 
spreading. 

DESSERT CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed J c. milk 

1 c. sugar 1| c. Wingold flour 

2 eggs, beaten separately 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bake in two layers. Put together with following filling: 
I pt. cream, whipped 2 c. cocoanut 

^ c. powdered sugar 

Spread between layers, sprinkle with shaved citron, spread over 
top and sprinkle with shaved citron. 

DEVILS' FOOD 

^ c. butter 2 egg-yolks, beaten light 

1 c. brown sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

^ c. sweet milk 2 egg-whites, beaten stiff 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks, milk, and flour; then fold in 
whites. Beat well; then add the following custard after it has cooled: 

1 c. brown sugar 1 egg-yolk 

1 c. grated chocolate j tsp. salt 

I c. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Cook slowly and stir constantly. Add to the above with 1 tsp. 
soda, dissolved in warm water. Bake in layers and put together with 
following icing: 

1 c. brown sugar 1 c. water 

1 c. white sugar 2 egg-whites, beaten very stifi" 

1 tblsp. vinegar j lb. marshmallows 

Boil first four ingredients until stringy. Pour over whites and 
marshmallows, cut fine. Beat until ready to spread. 

EASTER NEST CAKE 

^ c. butter 2^ c. Wingold flour 

2 c. powdered sugar 2| tsp. Calumet baking powder 
5 c. milk 8 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Bake in layers, putting them together with following icing: 
3 c. sugar 3 egg whites, beaten stiff 

I c. boiling water 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it strings, pour over beaten whites, 
beat until creamy enough to spread, add flavor. Spread between 

— 39 — 



layers, then sprinkle with cocoanut. Spread on top and sides, and 
sprinkle with cocoanut. On the top of the cake make a nest of cocoa- 
nut in which place some blanched almonds, to represent eggs. Place 
almonds around the edge of the cake. 

• 

EVERYDAY CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, beaten light 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bake in layers. Put together with any filling. 

FARINA CAKE 

6 eggs, beaten separately f c. farina 

1^ c. sugar 1 heaping tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. bread crumbs f c. hickory nuts, chopped 

Beat sugar and yolks, add whites and other ingredients; mixing 
farina and baking powder. Bake in 3 layers. Whipped cream for 
filling. 

FEATHER CAKE 

I c. butter 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1| c. sugar f c. milk 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla extract 
1| c. Wingold flour j tsp. salt 

I c. cornstarch 

Add sugar to creamed butter; add yolks; milk; and flour, corn- 
starch, baking powder, and salt sifted together. Add whites of eggs 
last. Bake in layers. Use fig filling. 

FIG CAKE 

I lb. figs, chopped ^ c. butter, creamed 

1 c. raisins, chopped 1 c. sugar 

1 c. boiling water 1 whole egg and 3 egg yolks 

1 tsp. soda 1| c. Wingold flour 

Watkins' spices to taste 

Dissolve soda in boiling water, then pour over fruit and set aside. 
Cream sugar and butter, add well beaten eggs, spices, and then the 
hot fruit, and the flour. Bake in layers. Use boiled icing. 

FIG FILLED CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed G egg whites 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

f c. milk 2 scant c. Wingold flour 

— 40 — 



Mix in order given, adding whites last. Bake in layers, putting 
them together with following filling: 

1 lb. figs, I lb. raisins, little lemon juice. Chop figs and raisins 
very fine, boil with enough water to make smooth paste. Spread be- 
tween layers and frost the top. 

FILLED APPLE CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed I c. milk 

^ c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Wingold flour enough to roll into two layers. Put one layer into 
well greased deep pan, add boiled strained apple sauce, cover with 
other layer and bake. While still warm spread with mixture of 
cream and brown sugar. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE 

f c. butter, creamed 2| c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk 1 c. hickory nuts, chopped 

4 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Bake in layers, put together with following filling: 

2 c. sugar, 1 c. cream. Boil until it holds together when dropped 
into cold water. Beat until creamy. 

ICE CREAM CAKE 

f c. butter 1 c. cornstarch 

2 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. milk 2 large tsp. Calumet baking powder 

8 egg whites 
Bake in layers. Put together with boiled icing. 

JELLY ROLL 

5 eggs, beaten light 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 large c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 large c. Wingold flour Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to eggs and beat; add flour, baking powder, and salt 
sifted together; then vanilla. Mix quickly and pour into well greased 
shallow tin. Bake in moderate oven. Turn out onto cloth, sprinkled 
with powdered sugar; spread jelly or filling over under side, and roll 
quickly. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 3^ c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

6 egg whites, beaten stift' 
— 41 — 



Cream sugar and butter till very light. Sift flour and baking 
powder, add alternately with milk to first mixture. Add vanilla, then 
fold in the whites. Bake in three layers, putting these together with 
following fruit and nut filling: 

3 c. sugar 1 c. raisins, chopped 

1 c. water 1 c. pecans, chopped 
3 egg whites 5 figs, chopped 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. Pour gradually 
over stifily beaten whites, beating constantly until of right consist- 
ency to spread; add remaining ingredients. Half of this quantity 
may be made and used between layers only. If entire quantity is 
made, cover top and sides of cake also, then coat with following Ice 
Cream Icing: 

2 c. sugar 2 egg whites 

^ c. water § tsp. Watkins, vanilla 

Make boiled icing, beating until mixture is of right consistency 
to spread. 

LEMON CAKE 

3 eggs, well beaten 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2 heaping tsp. Calumet baking powder 

f c. milk I tsp. salt 

1 tsp. Watkins' lemon flavor 
Bake in three layers. Put together with following filling: 
1 tblsp. butter 1 tblsp. cornstarch 

f c sugar I c. boiling water 

1 egg yolk, beaten 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Mix butter, sugar, yolk, and lemon. Add boiling water. When 
mixture boils, add cornstarch mixed with little cold water. Spread 
filling between layers and frost the top. 

LEMON BUTTER CAKE 

1 c. butter | c. milk • 

2 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 

6 egg whites, beaten stiff 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

Mix in order given; bake in layers. Put following mixture be- 
tween: 

2 lemons, grated rind and juice 1 c. sugar 

3 egg yolks, well beaten Pinch of salt 
I c. butter 

Mix together and put on stove. Cook till thick as jelly. Spread 
between layers. Put icing on top of cake. 

— 42 — 



LEMON CREAM CAKE 

5 eggs, beat § hr. 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar "2- tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bake in three layers. Put together with following lemon filling: 

1 c. water 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

1 c. sugar 1 heaping tblsp. Wingold flour 
1 egg 

Coat the top with any icing. 

LORD BALTIMORE CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed | c. milk 

1 c. sugar • If c. Wingold flour 

8 egg yolks, beaten light 4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1| tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Bake in three layers, putting them together with the following 
Lord Baltimore Filling: 

1| c. sugar I c. water 2 egg whites, beaten stift 

Make boiled icing., When of right consistency to spread, add the 
following: 

§ c. macaroon crumbs 12 candied cherries, quartered 

J c. pecans, chopped 2 tsp. lemon juice 

J c. almonds, blanched and 3 tsp. Sherry wine 

chopped J tsp. Watkins' orange flavor 

Cover top and sides with Ice Cream Icing. Garnish cake with 
halves of candied cherries and diamond-shaped pieces of angelica. 

MAPLE SUGAR CAKE 

^ c. butter, creamed | c. warm water 

2 c. maple sugar 1 tsp. soda 

2 eggs, beaten light ^ c. sour milk 

I cake chocolate 2^ c. Wingold flour 

Melt chocolate over hot water, dissolve soda in warm water. 
Beat butter, eggs, and sugar 10 min., add chocolate, water and milk 
mixed, to egg mixture, then add the flour. Beat thoroughly. Bake in 
three lawyers, putting them together with maple or caramel filling. 
See index. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE 

^c. butter, creamed 2^ c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. water 4 egg whites, beaten stiff 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
— 43 — 



Bake in 3 layers. Put together with following filling: Make a 
boiled icing. While still hot add | lb. quartered marshmallows. 
Beat until cool. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE 

I c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

Ij c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I c. milk 6 egg whites, beaten stiff 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Bake in 3 layers, putting them together with following icing. 
Make a boiled frosting, when ready to spread, add ^ c. chopped 
raisins and | c. chopped nuts. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

1 tblsp. butter 1 tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, 

1 c. molasses - allspice, cloves 

1 c. hot water 2 tsp. soda 

1 egg, beaten light 2| c. Wingold flour 

Dissolve soda in molasses. Mix all ingredients and beat thor- 
oughly. Bake in layers, put together with boiled icing. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 c. milk 

2 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, beaten light 1^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix as for other cakes. Divide dough into three parts, to one 
part add a square of chocolate, melted; to another part some pink 
fruit coloring; leave the third part white. Bake the parts separately 
in layer tins. Put layers together with boiled icing, putting white 
layer first, then the brown, and then the pink. Cover top with icing, 
and sprinkle with cocoanut or chopped nuts. 

OPERA CARAMEL CAKE 

h c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
§ c. milk 4 egg whites 

Bake in two layers, use following filling: 

2 c. brown sugar Butter, size of an egg 
^ c. cream 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Boil until it almost hardens in cold water. Beat; when almost 
cold, add 1 c. chopped walnuts. 

ORANGE CAKE 

5 egg yolks, beaten light 2 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

— 44 — 



1 orange, juice and grated rind J c. cold water 

3 egg whites, beaten stiff 
Bake in layers and put together with following icing: 

2 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 orange, juice and grated rind 

Powdered sugar enough to spread 
Spread between layers and on top. 

POPPYSEED CAKE 

f c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

f c. milk 4 egg whites 

f c. poppy seeds 

Pour the milk over the poppy seeds; let stand at least two hours 
before baking. Cream butter and sugar, add poppy seed mixture, 
then flour sifted with baking powder, and egg-whites beaten very stiff. 

Bake in large tin or in layers. When in layers use following filling. 

1| c. milk 4 egg yolks 

2 tblsp. cornstarch ^ c. chopped nuts 

f c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Dissolve cornstarch in a little cold milk, add milk, sugar, beaten 
egg yolks, and boil until it thickens. Add nuts and vanilla. Spread 
between layers. Serve with whipped cream. 

POTATO CAKE 

1 c. butter f c. milk 

2 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

^ c. cream 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

4 eggs, beaten light 1 c. mashed potatoes 

I c. cocoa 1 c. nuts, chopped 

^ tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat well, then bake in layers. Use any filling. See index. 

RASPBERRY CAKE 

^ c. butter, creamed f c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

2 egg yolks, beaten light 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bake in layers. Use following filling: 

1 qt. raspberries, crushed 1 c. powdered sugar 

2 egg whites, not beaten 1 tsp. lemon juice 

Beat all ingredients together with rotary beater until very thick. 
Spread between layers and on top. Serve with whipped cream. 

— 45 — 



SAND TORTE LAYER CAKE 

I lb. powdered sugar j lb. Wingold flour 

I lb. butter I lb. cornstarch 

6 eggs 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, a little at a time; then 
flour, cornstarch, and baking powder, sifted together 3 times. Bake 
in 3 layers in rather slow oven. Use any filling desired. 

SATAN'S FOOD 

1 c. grated chocolate 1 egg yolk 

^ c. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. brown sugar 

Stir ingredients together in a double boiler, cook slowly, then cool, 
and add vanilla. 

I c. butter, creamed ^ c. sweet milk 

1 c. brown sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. soda 

Cream sugar and butter, add eggs, milk, and sifted flour, beat 
all together, then add chocolate mixture. Last of all add soda dis- 
solved in a little lukewarm water. Bake in 2 layers and put together 
with boiled frosting. 

SILVER CAKE 

5 c. butter, creamed 4 egg whites, beaten stiff 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

1 c. milk ^ tsp. soda 

2^ c. Wingold flour 

Add cream of tartar to whites when partly beaten. Dissolve 
soda in little hot water. Bake in one layer, then split the cake, and 
put boiled custard between. See index. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE 

1 c. sour cream 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 egg J tsp. salt 

I tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

Dissolve soda in cream, mix in order given, bake in 2 tins, put 
together with any filling. See index. 

SOUR CREAM CHOCOLATE CAKE 

3 egg yolks, beaten light j tsp. salt 

1| c. sugar 2| c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sour cream 2 sq. chocolate 

1 tsp. soda 3 egg whites 

— 46 — 



Melt chocolate in part of cream, let cool, then add the rest of the 
cream. Mix soda and flour, add alternately with cream to beaten 
yolks and sugar, then fold in the whites. Bake in two layers. Put 
together with boiled icing. See index. 

SPANISH BUN CAKE 

f c. butter, scant 1 scant pt. Wingold flour 

1 pt. sugar, scant 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

f c. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

4 eggs, leave out 2 whites ^ tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

Bake in two long biscuit tins and put together with white frost- 
ing, using the 2 extra whites. 

SPICE CAKE 

Butter, size of an egg | c. dark syrup 

1 c. sugar I tsp. each Watkins' cloves, cin- 

2 egg yolks, beaten namon, allspice, ginger 

^ c. sour cream 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J tsp. soda Wingold flour to stiffen, about 2 c. 

Bake in layers and put together with boiled frosting, adding 1 c. 
chopped raisins when ready to spread. 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs, beaten light 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1| c. sugar f c. boiling water 

1| c. Wingold flour 

Bake in layers. Use any filling. See index. 

SWEET CREAM CAKE 

2 eggs 1 c. sugar 

Sweet cream If c. Wingold flour 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Break eggs into a cup, then fill the cup with sweet cream; add 
other ingredients and beat 10 min. Bake in layers. Use any filling. 
See index. 

TILDEN CAKE 

1 c. butter 3 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar | c. cornstarch 

4 eggs, beaten light 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk 2 tsp. Watkins' lemon 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, milk, and flour sifted with 
cornstarch, baking powder, and pinch of salt. Bake in loaf or layers. 
Use any filling. See index. 

— 47 — 



TIP-TOP CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 c. milk 

2 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 heaping tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Cream sugar and butter, add yolks, milk, flour with baking pow- 
der, and lastly the whites. To J of the mixture add raisins, currants, 
and Watkins' cinnamon. Bake in 3 layers. Take fruit layer for 
center and use jelly for filling. Frost top, or dust with powdered 
sugar. 

WHITE CAKE 

I c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1^ c. powdered sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ c. milk 6 egg whites 

Bake in two large or three small layers. Put together with white 
frosting and 1 grated fresh cocoanut, with a little sugar sprinkled over 
cocoanut. 



Loaf and Flat Cakes 

ALMOND CAKE 

9 eggs, beaten separately f c. Wingold flour 

1^ c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lb. almonds, cut 

Add beaten wdiites last. Bake in deep tube pan in moderate 
oven 1 hr. Dust top with powdered sugar. 

ANGEL FOOD. No. 1 

1 c. egg whites 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

1 c. sugar f tsp. salt 

I c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Sift flour and salt four times. Sift sugar four times. Beat 
whites until frothy, then add cream of tartar and beat until very stiff. 
Fold in the sugar, then the flour and vanilla. Handle as little as pos- 
sible when adding flour and sugar. Bake in moderate oven 50 min. 

ANGEL FOOD. No. II 

II egg whites 1 tsp. cream of tartar 
1| c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

Mix same as Angel Food No. I. ^ c. cut candied cherries may 
be folded into either cake with the flour, and almond flavor may be 
used instead of vanilla 

— 48 — 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

1 c. sugar If c. hot unsweetened apple sauce 

^ c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. raisins ^ tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

^ c. currants | tsp. each of Watkins' cloves and 

2 level tsp. soda nutmeg 

^ tsp. salt 

Add sugar to creamed butter, add fruit and spices, then, alter- 
nately, flour, and apple sauce mixed with the soda. Bake in loaf or 
shallow tin 40 min. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE 

^ c. butter, creamed | cake chocolate 

2 c. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

2 eggs, beaten light | c. sour milk 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. soda 

Pour boiling water over chocolate and dissolve on back of stove. 
Cream sugar and butter, add eggs, then cooled chocolate, and flour 
alternating with sour milk in which soda has been dissolved. Bake 
in loaf or fiat tin. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE 

f c. butter 3 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 qt. blueberries 
f c. milk 

Add whites after half of flour has been added; add blueberries 
with remainder of flour. Bake in shallow tins in moderate oven. 
Sprinkle sugar over top before baking. 

BOILED SUNSHINE CAKE 

1| c. sugar 1 c. Wingold flour 

I c. water 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or lemon 

6 eggs, beaten separately | tsp. salt 

^ tsp. cream of tartar 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. Sift flour 5 times. 
Add salt to whites and beat foamy, then add cream of tartar and beat 
eggs until very stiff and dry. Add warm, not too hot, syrup and beat 
vigorously; then add beaten yolks and fold in the flour and flavor, 
but do not beat. Bake in ungreased tin in moderate oven f hr. 

BREAD CAKE 

1 c. butter 2 c. bread dough 

2 c. sugar | lb. currants 

— 49 — 



3 eggs 1-2" tsp. cinnamon 

2 tblsp. cream 

Beat hard five min.; put into two buttered pans; let rise 25 min. 
Bake | hr. 

BRIDE'S CAKE 

I c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

1^ c. sugar J tsp. cream of tartar 

§ c. milk I tsp. almond extract 

2| c. Wingold flour 6 egg-whites 

Gradually add sugar to creamed butter, then milk, alternating 
with flour sifted with baking powder. Then add cream of tartar and 
extract. Beat thoroughly and then fold in the stiffly beaten egg- 
whites. Bake in a round pan for 1 hr. in a moderate oven. Cover 
with White Mountain Cream. (See index.) 

CHEAP DATE CAKE 

1 large c. dates, chopped 1 egg, beaten 

1 c. boiling water 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 1 tblsp. vinegar 

1 tblsp. butter 1| c. Wingold flour 

§ c. nuts 

Pour boiling water over dates and let cool; then add other ingre- 
dients, dissolving soda in vinegar. Bake in flat tin in slow oven. 

CHEAP SPONGE CAKE 

3 eggs, beaten very light 2 c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ tsp. salt ^ c. cold water 

^ orange rind, grated 

Sift salt, flour, and baking powder three times. Beat sugar and 
eggs. Add the cold water alternately with the flour mixture; add 
orange. Bake in shallow pan ^ hr. in moderate oven. 

CHERRY CAKE 

2 tblsp. butter 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 scant c. Wingold flour 

1 egg 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bake in shallow tin, strew with fresh, stoned cherries, sprinkle 
freely with powdered sugar. Bake in moderate oven. Serve plain 
or with sugar and cream. 

— 50 — 



CHOCOLATE COCOANUT CAKE 



I c. butter, creamed 
1 c. brown sugar 
3 eggs, well beaten 
I c. sour milk 
I tsp. soda 



^ c. cocoanut 

J c. nuts, chopped 

2 sq. chocolate, melted 

1 c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 



Bake in loaf in medium oven. Cover with any icing, or dust 
with powdered sugar. 

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW CAKE 



1^ c. Wingold flour 

2| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 oz. chocolate, melted 



^ c. butter, creamed 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs, beaten separately 
I c. milk 

Mix in order given, adding chocolate and beaten whites last. 
Bake in shallow pan in moderate oven. When done and still very hot, 
cover top with quartered marshmallows. These will run together and 
form frosting, over this put a thin coat of melted chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE POTATO CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 c. grated chocolate 

2 c. sugar 1 c. nuts, chopped 
4 eggs, well beaten 1 c. sour milk 

1 c. grated boiled potatoes 2 tsp. soda 

2 c. Wingold flour 

Bake in deep or shallow pan in slow oven. Coat with white or 
chocolate icing. 



^ c. butter or lard 
1 c. brown sugar 
1 c. sour milk 
1 tsp. soda 

Bake in flat pans. 



CLUB, CAKE 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

I tsp. each Watkins' cloves, allspice 

1 c. raisin-s, chopped 

1 c. nuts, chopped 

2 c. Wingold flour 
Coat with icing. 

COCOA CAKE 

^ c. sour milk 



1 tsp. soda 

2h c. Wingold flour 



^ c. shortening 
2 c. brown sugar 
4 tblsp. cocoa 
1 c. boiling water 

Pour boiling water over cocoa, add soda to milk 
loaf tin. Coat with chocolate or white icing. 

— 51 — 



Bake in flat or 



COCOANUT POUND CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed | lb. cocoanut 

2 c. powdered sugar 4 c. Wingold flour 

4 eggs, beaten light 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk J tsp. salt 

I lemon rind, grated 
This makes two loaves. Bake 45 min. in moderate oven. 

COFFEE CAKE 

2 tblsp. butter, melted 2 c. milk 

2 c. sugar 4 c. Wingold flour 

2 eggs 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I tsp. salt 

Put into shallow pans, sprinkle sugar and Watkins' cinnamon on 
top, bake quickly. 

COFFEE CHOCOLATE CAKE 

^ c. butter | c. cold coffee 

1 c. powdered sugar f c. almonds, sliced 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. Wingold flour 

2 sq. chocolate, melted 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given, adding whites last. Bake in shallow pan. 
Cover with chocolate or white icing. 

COFFEE FRUIT CAKE 

1 c. shortening 1 large tsp. soda 
He. brown sugar 1 c. raisins 

3 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. each Watkins' cloves, allspice 
^ c. molasses 1^ tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1| c. hot coffee 3 c. Wingold flour 

Dissolve soda in hot water, then add spices. Mix in order given. 
Bake in deep pan in moderate oven 1 hr. 

CREAM CAKE 

2 eggs, not beaten If c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

§ c. cream | tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

I tsp. salt J tsp. each mace and Watkins' ginger 

Drop unbeaten eggs into a bowl, add sugar and cream and beat 
vigorously. Sift remaining dry ingredients together, add to first mix- 
ture and beat until well mixed. Bake in shallow pan in moderate oven. 

— 52 — 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs, beaten separately Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar Ij tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 tblsp. cold water j tsp. salt 

1| tblsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. Watkins' lemon extract 

Beat sugar and yolks 2 min., add water. Put cornstarch into a 
cup and fill cup with flour, sift together with baking powder and salt, 
add to first mixture. When thoroughly mixed, add whites and 
lemon. Bake in moderate oven 30 min. in deep or shallow tin. Ex- 
cellent for cream cake. 

DARK CHOCOLATE CAKE 

I lb. chocolate, grated f c. milk 

1 c. boiling water 2^ c. Wingold flour 

1 c. butter, creamed 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or lemon 
2 eggs, beaten separately 

Pour boiling water over chocolate, when cool add to creamed 
sugar and butter, and other ingredients, adding whites last. Bake in 
loaf or flat tin. Frost with boiled icing. 



DATE LOAF 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 lb. dates, chopped 

1 lb. walnuts, cut 

2 tblsp. brandy 

2 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Mix in order given, adding whites last. Bake H hrs. in loaf 



4 eggs, beaten separately 

1 c. sugar 

J tsp. salt 

1 c. Wingold flour 



tins in moderate oven. Keeps as well as fruit cake. 

DELICIOUS EGG CAKE 



Rind and juice of ^ lemon 

1 c. Wingold flour 

I tblsp. Calumet baking powder 



1 c. sugar 

5 eggs, beaten separately 

3 tblsp. boiling water 

Boil sugar and water till it threads; gradually pour syrup over 
beaten whites and beat 10 min. Beat yolks with lemon rind and juice 
until creamy, then add to the whites. Fold the flour mixed with the 
baking powder into the mixture. Bake 45 min. in slow oven. 



DELICIOUS SPONGE CAKE 



6 eggs, beaten separately 

1 c. sugar 

1 c. Wingold flour 



1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
J tsp. salt 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind 
— 53 — 



Beat sugar and yolks, add lemon, then stiff whites, and lastly 
fold in flour mixed with baking powder and salt. Bake in deep tin 
50 min. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

For custard For cake 

2 sq. chocolate 2| c. sifted Wingold flour 

6 tblsp. sugar 2| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 tsp. each Watkins, cinnamon, f c. butter 

cloves and allspice Ij c. sugar 

1 tsp. each Watkins' mace and 4 eggs 

nutmeg f c. milk 
6 tblsp. milk 

To make custard put broken chocolate into bowl over hot water, 
add sugar, spices, and milk. Stir until smooth, then set aside to cool 
while mixing cake. 

Sift flour once before measuring, then add baking powder and 
sift three times. Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks; 
then add the beaten whites lightly to the mixture; pour in the milk; 
sift in the flour and mix until smooth. Then beat the custard into 
the batter until thoroughly mixed. This cake baked in a loaf pan 
must bake 40 to 45 min. and heat must be regulated so that cake will 
rise as high as it will, before browning over the top. Baked in layer 
tins, it requires | c. more of flour and ^ level tsp. of baking powder. 
If baked in layers and put together with meringue icing in which 
chopped nuts, raisins, and figs are mixed, it is an exceedingly rich cake. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

J c. butter f c. milk 

1 egg, well beaten 4 apples, cut into eighths 

2 c. Wingold flour j c. sugar 

J tsp. salt 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Sift flour, salt, and baking powder 3 times. With tips of fingers 
work shortening into flour mixture. Add milk to beaten egg and stir 
into the dry ingredients. Spread dough in well greased shallow pan; 
press edges of pieces of apple into dough in rows. Mix sugar and 
sprinkle over top; dot with butter. This cake is good served with 
following sauce. 

2 tsp. butter 1 tblsp. lemon juice 

f c. sugar 1 tblsp. cornstarch 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add boiling water enough to make 
rather thick sauce. Boil 5 min., then add butter and lemon.- 

EGG ALMOND CAKE 

f c. butter ^ c. milk. 

2 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

— 54 — 



I lb. almonds, blanched, chopped 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

6 egg whites, beaten stiff. 

Mix in order given, sifting flour and baking powder, adding 
whites last. Bake in loaf tin in moderate oven. When cold, coat 
with icing, flavored with almond extract. 

EGOLESS FRUIT CAKE 

^ c. shortening 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. brown sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. water 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1| c. raisins, chopped 

I tsp. each Watkins' nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon 

Boil the first five ingredients together 3 min. When cool, add 
soda dissolved in little hot water, and flour mixed with baking powder. 
Bake in loaf in moderate oven. 

EXCELLENT FRUIT CAKE 

1 c. butter 1 lb. raisins 

2 c. sugar 1 lb. currants 
4 eggs 1 lb. walnuts 
If c. milk h lb. almonds 
4f c. Wingold flour | lb. figs 

4f tsp. Calumet baking powder J lb. dates 

Since this is a light fruit cake, use sparingly of spices, if spices 
are used. Add citron if liked. Flour the fruit with the 4| c. flour, 
mixed with the baking powder. Weigh the walnuts before shelling, 
but not the almonds. Add fruit and nuts quite whole, if cut too fine, 
the cake will lose in appearance. 



FAVORITE FRUIT CAKE 



1^ c. butter, creamed 

2 c. sugar 

5 eggs, beaten light 

1 c. milk 

1| tsp. soda, in hot water 

4 c. Wingold flour 

1 large tsp. cream tartar 

2 lbs. raisins 
^ lb. citron, cut 

Flour all fruit. Pour 2 large glasses of brandy over citron and 
raisins and soak over night. Mix all fruit and juices, then pour well 
mixed dough over fruit mixture and mix thoroughly. Bake in four 
small bread pans in slow oven for 2 hrs. 

— 55 — 



I lb. candied pineapple 
1 lb. dates, chopped 
1 lb. almonds, blanched and cut 
h lb. candied cherries 
^ lb. figs, chopped 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind 
1 orange, juice and grated rind 
1 tsp. each Watkins' nutmeg and 
cinnamon 



FEATHER GINGERBREAD 

J c. sugar 1 c. flour 

1 egg 1 tsp. soda 

J c. molasses 1 tsp. cinnamon 

J c. melted lard 1 tsp. ginger 

I c. milk f tsp. salt 

Cream lard and sugar, add well beaten egg, spices and molasses, 
then milk and flour alternating. Dissolve soda in a bit of hot 
water. Bake in shallow pan. 

FISHER VELVET CAKE 

1 c. butter 1| c. Wingold flour 

f c. sugar 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten separately 3 drops each Watkins' lemon and 
f c. milk vanilla extracts 

2 tblsp. water 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks and beat well. Then 
whip in the beaten whites; add the milk and water, then the flour, 
sifted once before measuring, and sifted with the baking powder three 
times. Add the extract and beat all until smooth. Bake in small 
loaf pan 45 min., allowing the mixture to rise as high as it will before 
browning over the top. If baked in shallow pan or in layer pans, ^c. 
of flour should be added. 

FRUIT CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 tsp. each Watkins' nutmeg, cloves 

2 c. sugar 1^ tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 
6 eggs, beaten separately 1 lemon, juice and rind 

1 c. cream 3J c. Wingold flour 

1 lb. each currants, raisins 3| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Bake in loaf tins in moderate oven at least 1| hrs. 

FUDGE CAKE 

h c. butter, creamed 1 tsp. soda 

2 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 
2 eggs, beaten light | cake chocolate 

I c. sour milk 1 c. boiling water 

Dissolve soda in sour milk, and chocolate in boiling water. Bake 
in shallow pan in moderate oven. Cover with fudge icing. See index. 

GERMAN POTATO CAKE 

Make a sponge of the following: 
I c. milk, scalded and cooled | cake Fleischmann's comp. yeast 

J c. warm water Ij c. Wingold flour 

— 56 — 



Dissolve yeast in warm water, then add to the milk, and add the 
flour. Let rise about 30 min., then add the following: 

1 tsp. salt 2 tblsp. flavoring or 

2 eggs, well beaten 2 tsp. cinnamon 
1| c. scalded and cooled milk 1| c. sugar 

I c. mashed potatoes ^ c. nuts, chopped 

I lb. butter 7| c. Wingold flour 

Knead thoroughly. Let rise over night. Form into cakes or 
loaves of about 1 lb. each. Brush the top with milk and sprinkle with 
following mixture: 

I c. butter I c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar Chopped almonds 

Rub these together and drop by bits upon the cake. Let rise 
until light. Bake in medium oven about 40 min. 

GINGER SPONGE CAKE 

1 c. butter 1 c. sour milk 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

4 eggs, beaten separately 3 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. molasses 1 tblsp. Watkins' ginger 

Mix in order given, adding whites last. Bake in two loaves in 
moderate oven. 

GOLD CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed f c. milk 

1| c. sugar 2 scant c. Wingold flour 

8 egg yolks § tsp. soda 

1 whole egg 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or lemon 

Beat eggs very light, add to creamed sugar and butter. Sift 
cream of tartar with flour, add to mixture alternating with milk. 
Add soda dissolved in warm water last, then add flavor. Bake in 
deep pan in moderate oven. 

GRAHAM CAKE 

I scant c. lard 1 c. raisins 

1 c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 c. sour milk 1 c. graham flour 

I tsp. soda 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. each Watkins' cloves, 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
cinnamon 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in milk and sifting flour with 
baking powder. This dough will seem too stiff, but it is not, since no 
eggs are used. Bake in well greased pan from 40 to 50 min. 

— 57 — 



HOT BLUEBERRY CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar ^ tsp. cream of tartar 

2 eggs, beaten light v| tsp. soda 

1 c. milk 1 c. blueberries 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in little warm water, sifting 
cream of tartar with flour. Wash and dry blueberries; sprinkle flour 
over them before adding to cake. Bake in deep or shallow pan in 
moderate oven. Serve hot. 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs, beaten separately 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. sugar ' f c. hot water 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. Watkins' lemon 

Beat yolks and sugar, then add whites, beat again, and then add 
other ingredients. Bake in deep or shallow pan in medium oven. 

JELLY ROLL 

2 eggs, beaten light 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 lemon rind, grated ^ c. hot milk 

1 c. Wingold flour Glass of jelly 

Beat sugar and eggs, add lemon, then flour sifted three times with 
salt and baking powder, then the milk. Bake in a buttered dripping 
pan; turn out onto a damp cloth, trim off crisp edges; spread with jelly 
and start with nearest edge, while still warm, to make a roll. Dust 
the top with powdered sugar. 

LIGHTNING CAKE 

1 c. sugar f c. soft butter 

Ij c. Wingold flour 2 eggs 

1 large tsp. Calumet baking powder Milk 

Sift first three ingredients three times. Break the eggs into same 
cup with butter, then fill the cup with milk. Beat the ingredients in 
the cup and the dry ingredients together for 5 min. Bake in deep or 
shallow pan, sprinkling sugar and cinnamon on top before baking. 

LOAF CAKE 

If c. sugar 2| c. of Wingold flour 

f c. butter 2 tsp., heaping, Calumet baking 

4 eggs powder 

f c. milk 1 c. nuts, hickory or walnuts, 

chopped 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, then milk, and flour 
sifted with baking powder, and nuts. 

— 58 — 



LOAF FIG CAKE 

1 c. butter 1 c. brandy, wine, or juice 

2 c. sugar 1 c. nuts, chopped 
2 eggs 3| c. Wingold flour 

2 c. raisins, chopped 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lb. figs, chopped 1 c. water 

Stir the brandy, wine, or juice into the figs. Mix in order given, 
beat thoroughly. Bake in moderate oven. 

LORENA'S CAKE 

f c. soft butter, creamed 3 c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

6 egg yolks, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or lemon 

1 whole egg 1 c. cold water 

Bake cake in deep pan with a tube in it. Put cake on chop 
plate, fill the center with whipped cream, and put custard around the 
the cake. Cut cake from center, to get cream, cake, and custard in 
one piece. 

MAPLE GINGER CAKE 

1 c. butter 2| c. Wingold flour 

2 eggs, beaten separately 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 scant c. maple syrup 1 tsp. ginger 

f scant c. water | c. candied ginger, cut fine 

1 tsp. soda 

Cream butter and yolks, add syrup mixed with water and soda, 
alternately with flour sifted with baking powder and powdered ginger. 
Fold in the whites and candied ginger. Bake in deep or shallow pan 
in moderate oven. Cover with any icing. 

MARBLE CAKE 

f c. butter, creamed 4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. sugar j lb. chocolate, grated 

4 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 c. milk I tsp. each Watkins' cloves and vanilla 

3 c. Wingold flour 

Mix first six ingredients in order given. Beat well, then put ^ 
of the mixture into another bowl; to this add the chocolate, spices, 
and vanilla. Mix well. Pour a layer of the white dough into a well 
greased deep pan with tube in the center, then a few tablespoons of 
the dark mixture, then a layer of white, then dark, and continue, 
leaving white dough on top. Bake 45 min. in moderate oven. 

— 59 — 



MOCK ANGEL FOOD 

1 c. Wingold flour 1 c. boiling milk 

1 c. sugar 3 egg whites, beaten stiff 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or lemon 

Sift first three ingredients together three times, then stir in the 
boiling milk, and lastly fold in the whites. Bake in deep pan and do 
not remove cake until 1 hr. after baking. 

MONITOU BLACK CAKE 



3 oz. chocolate, melted 
1 egg-yolk, well beaten 

1 c. milk 

2 tblsp. butter 
1 c. sugar 



I c. milk 

1| c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 tsp. soda 



Mix the yolk of the egg with the milk and melted chocolate. 
Cook over water until the mixture is thick and smooth. Remove 
from heat. Add the seven remaining ingredients in their order. 
Thoroughly beat in the flour before adding baking powder and soda. 
Pour into well buttered pan — 12 x 9 x H inches. Bake in moderate 
oven. Cover with boiled frosting. Cut into squares. Is a very 
rich cake, more like confection. 



1 c. butter, creamed 

2 c. sugar 
1 c. milk 

3 c. Wingold flour 



NUT CAKE 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. chopped hickory nuts 
5 egg whites, beaten stiff 



Bake in loaf tins. Cover with any icing. 



butter 



NUT LOAF CAKE 

milk 



2 C. 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs, beaten separately 
1 c. chopped nuts 

Mix in order given, adding whites last 
moderate oven 40 min. 



2 c. 

1| c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Bake in loaf tin in 



NUT MOCHA CAKE 

If c. Wingold flour 
2| tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. nuts, chopped 
3 egg whites, beaten stiff 
Bake in shallow pan in medium oven. Cover with boiled icing. 

— 60 — 



I c. butter, creamed 

1 c. sugar 

h c. cold coffee 



NUT SPONGE CAKE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1| c. nuts, chopped 

^ lemon, juice and rind 

Beat sugar and yolks 10 min., add lemon, then add the stiff whites 
and beat well. To this add nuts and lastly the flour, stirring lightly, 
just enough to mix. Bake in deep pan in slow oven. 

OLD FASHIONED POUND CAKE 

1 c. butter 2 scant c. Wingold flour 

If c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

5 eggs, not beaten | tsp. mace 

Do all mixing by hand; work butter and sugar until very light; 
add one egg at a time, beating hard with the hand; then work in other 
ingredients. Bake in round pan with tube, greased and floured, in 
moderate oven for 1 hr. 

ORANGE CAKE 

^ c. soft butter, creamed 3 c. Wingold flour 

1^ c. sugar 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

8 egg yolks, beaten light 1 c. water 

^ orange, juice and grated rind 

Use ingredients in order given. Bake in deep tin. Cover with 
any icing. 

PLAIN CAKE 

^ c. butter, creamed If c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
^ c. milk J tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, adding whites last. Bake in deep or shallow 
tin in moderate oven ^ hr. 

PLAIN FEATHER CAKE 

§ c. butter, creamed 1 c. milk 

2 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, beaten separately 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add whites last. Use any flavor. Bake in deep or shallow tin. 
Coat with any icing. 

POTATO CAKE 

1 scant c. butter, creamed 1 tsp. each Watkins' vanilla, cin- 

2 c. sugar namon 

1 c. milk 1 c. nuts, chopped 

— 61 — 



4 eggs, beaten separately 
1 sq. of chocolate, grated 



1 c. grated boiled potatoes 

2 c. Wingold flour 

2 tsp. Calumet baking, powder 
Bake in loaf tin in moderate oven 



PORK CAKE 

1 lb. raisins 

1 lb. currants 

2-tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 tsp. each Watkins' nutmeg, 
cloves, allspice 

2 scant qts. Wingold flour 

Chop pork very fine, pour over it boiling water containing the 
soda. When cool, add other ingredients, 
loaves in moderate oven. 



1 lb. salted pork 

2 large c. boiling water 
2 tsp. soda 

2 c. sugar 
2 c. molasses 



Bake in two or three 



PRESIDENT'S WEDDING CAKE 

I c. butter 3 c. Wingold flour 

1^ c. sugar 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

f c. milk G egg-whites 

^ tsp. Watkins' extract 

Sift flour once before measuring, then add baking powder and 
sift four times. Cream butter and sugar. Add milk, flour, and ex- 
tract and beat vigorously. Cut and fold in the egg whites beaten 
stiff but not dry. Put into baking pan, the bottom of which has been 
well greased and floured. Bake in moderate oven not less than 45 



PRUNE CAKE (Excellent) 



I c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

3 eggs, well beaten 

3 c. prune juice 

1 small tsp. soda 



2 c. Wingold flour (measured after sifting) 
I tsp. each of Watkins' allspice, cinnamon, 

and nutmeg 
1 c. stewed prunes, mashed fine 
5 tblsp. sour cream 



1 large tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar to creamed butter, add eggs, prune juice, flour and 
baking powder mixed, and spices. Dissolve soda in little water, add 
to it the cream, and mashed prunes; add this mixture to the above. 
Mix well. Bake in one large loaf in medium oven for 40 min. 



1 c. soft butter 
1^ c. brown sugar 

2 eggs 

h c. milk 



QUICK CAKE 

If c. Wingold flour 
3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
I tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, nutmeg 
^ lb. dates, or | c. raisins 
— 62— ' 



Put ingredients into bowl in order given and do not stir until all 
have been added. Beat for 3 min. Bake in well greased pan from 
35 to 45 min. 

RASPBERRY CAKE 

I c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 c. raspberry jam 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

4 tsp. cold water | tsp. each mace and Watkins' cloves 

1 tsp. soda 

Mix ingredients in order given, folding in whites last. Bake in 
loaf in moderate oven 45 min. Frost with any icing. Strawberry, 
blackberry, or any jam may be used in this cake. 

SAILOR'S CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed ^ c. grated chocolate 

2 c. brown sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, beaten separately 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk 

Fold in whites last. Bake in loaf or flat tin in medium oven. 
Cover with any icing. 

SNOW CAKE 

J c. butter | c. milk 

^ c. sugar 3 drops Watkins' almond extract 

2 egg whites, beaten stiff 1^ scant c. Wingold flour 

1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add extract, milk, and flour sifted with 
baking powder four times. Beat until smooth, then fold in the egg 
whites beaten very stiff. This will make two small layers or one 
small loaf. 

SNOW-WHITE CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed 2 c. Wingold flour 

Ij c. sugar 1 heaping tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk 5 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Bake in loaf or shallow tin in moderate oven. Use any flavor. 
Coat with any icing. 

SOUR MILK CAKE 

4 tblsp. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 
Ij c. sugar 1 c. raisins 

2 eggs 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

J c. molasses | tsp. Watkins' nutmeg, cloves 

— 63 — 



1 c. sour milk ^ tsp. salt 

1 tsp. soda I c. nuts, chopped 

Add unbeaten eggs to creamed sugar and butter and beat vigor- 
ously. Add molasses, then dry ingredients alternating with milk in 
which soda has been dissolved. Put raisins and nuts in last. Bake 
in loaf in moderate oven 40 min. 

SPANISH BUN 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. vinegar 
4 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

2 c. Wingold flour 

Mix in order given, adding vinegar and soda to the milk, and 
sifting cream of tartar with the flour. Bake in flat pans and let cool 
in same. 

SPICE CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, nutmeg 

2 c. brown sugar | tsp. Watkins' cloves, allspice 
2 eggs, beaten separately 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. milk 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. currants and raisins, mixed 

Flour raisins before adding. Add whites last. Bake in deep or 
shallow pan in moderate oven. 

SPICE CHOCOLATE CAKE 

^ c. butter 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 c. sugar i tsp. each Watkins' cloves, allspice 

1 egg 1 heaping tblsp. chocolate 

1 c. sour milk 1| c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. soda 1 c raisins and citron together 

1 small glass brandy 
Bake in loaf in moderate oven for 1 hr. 

STAR CAKE 

I c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1^ c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

4 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I c. milk 

Put into shallow pan, and sprinkle with sugar, nuts, and cinna- 
mon before baking. 

— 64 — 



STEAMED FRUIT CAKE 

2 c. butter, creamed 2 lb. raisins 

2 c. sugar 2 lb. currants 

12 eggs, omit 3 yolks, beaten light 1 lb. citron, cut very tine 

1 tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, 1 lb. almonds, chopped 

allspice, nutmeg, cloves ^ lb. mi.xed fresh fruit 

1 tsp. salt 3 oranges, juice and grated rind 

4 c. Wingold flour 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

1 glass jelly 

Steam three hrs. After steamed, put into the oven for two hrs. 
Secret of this cake is to work it well. 

SUNSHINE ALMOND CAKE 

5 egg-whites 3 egg-yolks 

J tsp. salt f c. sugar, sifted 5 times 

1 tsp. cream of tartar | tsp. almond extract 
^ c. Wingold flour, sifted 5 times 

Add salt to egg-whites and beat until light. Sift in cream of 
tartar and beat until stiff. Beat egg-yolks very light and add part 
of the beaten whites. To remaining whites gradually add sugar and 
almond extract. Combine mixtures and fold in flour. Bake in angel- 
cake pan 1 hr. Have a pan of hot water in oven during the baking. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

7 egg whites I tsp. salt 

5 egg yolks I tsp. cream of tartar 

§ c. sugar 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or lemon 

Sift sugar and flour five times. Beat yolks very light and whites 
very stiff, adding cream of tartar to whites when half whipped. Care- 
fully mix yolks and whites, then fold in sugar and flour mixed, and the 
vanilla. Bake in ungreased deep pan 45 min. 

SURPRISE CAKE 

Bake a nice white cake in shallow pan; cover with a boiled icing 
containing | c. chopped nuts. When nearly hard, strew h c. chopped 
pineapple over frosting, then place over this a thick layer of whipped 
cream. 

WASHINGTON CAKE 

2 c. butter, creamed h lb. citron, cut line 
2 c. brown sugar 1 c. nuts 

4 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

1 c. milk 4 c. Wingold flour 

— 65 — 



1 lb. raisins, chopped 2 tsp. soda, dissolved in hot water 

2 wine glasses brandy 

Bake in tube pan in moderate oven 1 hr. This will make two 
cakes. Will keep a long time. 

WHITE CAKE 

I c. butter, creamed 2^ c. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. warm water 4 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Mix in order given. Bake in deep or shallow tin in moderate 
oven. Use any flavor. 

WHITE LOAF CAKE 

f c. butter, creamed 2^ c. Wingold flour 

Ij c. sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

8 egg whites, beaten very stiff ^ tsp. soda 

I c. milk Flavor to taste 

Whip whites to a foam, add cream of tartar, whip very stiff, then 
add to creamed sugar and butter, add milk, flour sifted three times 
with soda, and flavor. Stir very hard. Bake in deep pan in slow 
oven for 50 min. 

YELLOW MOUNTAIN CAKE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 c. milk 

2 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 
10 egg yolks, beaten light 1 tsp. soda 

2 tsp. cream of tartar 

Sift flour, soda, and cream of tartar together 4 times. Mix in 
or'der given. Beat vigorously. Bake in deep pan in moderate oven 
1 hr. 

ZWIEBACK 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. anise seeds or flavor 

Beat sugar and yolks 5 min., add flour mixed with baking powder, 
anise, and lastly the whites. Bake in shallow pan in slow oven 1 hr. 
Keep until the next day, then cut the cake into slices. Toast these 
on both sides in the oven. Dust with powdered sugar. Good for 
invalids. 



66 



Small Cakes or Cookies 

ALMOND ROCKS 

4 eggs, beaten very light 4 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
J lb. almonds, chopped j tsp. salt 

Beat sugar and eggs 10 min., add almonds and flour sifted with 
baking powder. Flavor with ^ tsp. Watkins' almond flavor. Drop 
from spoon onto well buttered tins. 

ALMOND STARS 

J c. butter IJ c. Wingold flour 

^ c. powdered sugar | tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten ^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 tblsp. milk Blanched almonds 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, flavoring, milk, and flour sifted 
with baking powder. Roll dough very thin. Cut with star-cookie- 
cutter. Arrange six or eight halves of blanched almonds about the 
center of each cake. Brush with egg-white and sprinkle with granu- 
lated sugar. Bake in moderate oven till of a delicate brown color. 

ANISE CAKES 

3 eggs, well beaten | lb. Wingold flour 

^ lb. powdered sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Pinch of salt Watkins' anise extract to taste 

Add sugar to egg and beat ^ hr. Add flavor and flour sifted 
with salt and baking powder. Drop from spoon onto well greased tin. 
Let stand in a warm place for several hours before baking. 

ANISE COOKIES 

6 eggs, beaten very light 4 scant c. Wingold flour 

2 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 tsp. Watkins' anise flavor j tsp. salt 

Beat sugar and eggs ^ hr. Sift flour, salt, and baking powder, 
and set warm. Add to egg mixture with anise. Dip onto unbut- 
tered inverted pans with teaspoon and let stand 2 hrs. in a warm place. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

BLITZ KUCHEN 

1 c. butter I tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

4 eggs, beaten light 2 c. Wingold flour 

4 tblsp. milk 1 lemon rind, grated 

— 67 — 



Mix in order given. Spread in shallow pans j in. thick and 
strew with sugar and chopped almonds. Bake and then cut into squares. 

BROWN CAKES 

1 c. sugar 1 tblsp. Watkins' ginger 

1 c. molasses 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 c. lard 1 tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. soda, dissolved in water 

Wingold flour to make dough stiff enough to roll 
Boil and cool sugar, molasses and lard. Add other ingredients 
in order given. Roll thin, sprinkle top with sugar, cut with cookie 
cutter. Bake in medium oven. 

CARDAMOM CAKES 

1 c. butter, creamed 4 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten light 1 tblsp. cardamom 

1 lemon rind, grated 

Add sugar to butter, then eggs and beat well. Add the other in- 
gredients. Roll out, sprinkle with sugar, cut and bake as other 
cookies. 

CHOCOLATE BALLS 

Bake an Angel Food or Sunshine Cake. See index. Pull the 
cake apart with a fork into pieces about 2 in. square. Take each 
piece on a fork and dip all sides into hot chocolate icing. See index. 
Let cool on a platter. 

CHOCOLATE BARS 

1 c. sugar 1 egg, unbeaten 

1 c. melted butter 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 squares of chocolate, melted I c. Wingold flour 

I c. chopped nuts 

Beat all together, spread thin in shallow pan, bake, and cut 
while hot into oblong strips. 

CHOCOLATE CAKES 

1 c. brown sugar ^ tsp. soda 

§ c. butter (melted) 1| c. Wingold flour 

1 egg f lb. walnuts, chopped 

I c. milk 2 sq. chocolate, melted 

Bake like rocks 
— 68 — 



Icing 

1 egg (well beaten) Powdered sugar enough to spread 

5 tblsp. sweet cream 2 sq. bitter chocolate (melted) 

Do not cook. Ice cookies while warm. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

1 c. butter 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 

4 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. chocolate, grated Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to creamed butter, then eggs and chocolate; beat well; 
add vanilla, salt, and flour mixed with the baking powder. Roll thin 
and bake in quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE NUTS 

1 c. butter, melted 1| c. Wingold flour 

2 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. soda, sifted with flour 

1 egg ^ c. chopped nuts 

^ c. milk ^ c. chopped raisins 

2 sq. of chocolate, 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

melted with the butter 

Mix in the order given. Drop from spoon onto well buttered 
tins. Bake in medium oven. 

CHOCOLATE SPICE CAKES 

9 eggs, beaten very light G c. Wingold flour 

3 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
^ lb. almonds, cut fine 4 tblsp. chocolate or cocoa 

^ citron, cut fine 2 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 tsp. each Watkins' cloves and nutmeg 

Beat sugar and eggs 10 min. Sift dry ingredients together and 
add to the above and at last the fruit. Roll out or drop from spoon. 

CHOCOLATE ROCKS 

^ c. melted butter 2 sq. chocolate, melted 

1 c. brown sugar ' 1^ c. Wingold flour 

1 egg, well beaten 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I c. milk 1 c. nuts, chopped 

Mix in order given. Drop from spoon onto well buttered tin 
and bake in medium oven. 

CINNAMON SQUARES 

1 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

I c. butter and lard mixed 2^ c. Wingold flour 

— 69 — 



1 egg, well beaten 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J tsp. salt ■ ^ c. currants, dredged with little 

flour 

Add sugar to creamed butter, then add egg, salt, milk, and flour 
mixed with baking powder. Beat well. Lastly add currants. Spread 
thin in square pan and sprinkle with sugar and Watkins' cinnamon. 
Bake 20 min. Cut into small squares. 

CITRON CAKES 

4 eggs, beaten light | tsp. each Watkins cloves and 
1 c. sugar nutmeg 

J lb. candied citron, cut fine 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 lemon rind, grated 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

4 c. Wingold flour 

Beat sugar and eggs 20 min. Add other ingredients, sifting 
flour, baking powder, and spices together. Roll rather thin, sprinkle 
sugar over top, and bake in medium oven. 

COCOANUT COOKIES 

5 eggs, beaten to a cream 3 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
J tsp. salt ^ lb. cocoanut 

Mix well, in order given. Drop from spoon onto well buttered 
tins. Bake in medium oven. 

COCOANUT DROPS 

2 c. light brown sugar | c. sweet cream or milk 

1 c. grated cocoanut 

Boil sugar and cream until it forms a soft ball in water. Take 
from fire, add cocoanut, and beat until quite stiff. Drop from spoon 
onto buttered paper. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES 

1 c. butter | c. milk 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
2 eggs, well beaten 4 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. grated cocoanut 1 tsp. Watkins vanilla 

I tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, sifting flour, salt and baking powder together. 
Add more flour to roll out. Roll quite thick and cut with doughnut 
cutter. Bake pale brown in medium oven. 

COCOANUT WAFERS 

1 tblsp. melted butter f c. rolled oats 

§ c. sugar J c. cocoanut 

— 70 — 



1 egg, well beaten Pinch of salt 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
Mix in order given. Drop from spoon onto well greased tins, 1 in. 
apart. Bake quickly. 

CORNUCOPIAS 

J c. butter | c. Wingold flour 

f c. powdered sugar ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J c. milk I tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Pinch of salt Almonds, cut fine 

Cream butter and sugar, gradually add the milk, and then the 
flour sifted with the salt and baking powder. Add the vanilla. 
Spread very thin with a broad, long-bladed knife on a well greased 
inverted dripping pan. Sprinkle with almonds. Before baking 
crease into 3 in. squares, then bake in slow oven until delicately brown. 
While warm cut squares apart with sharp knife and roll immediately 
into cornucopia shapes with almond side outside. Or roll with almond 
side inside and then powder the outside with powdered sugar. Fill 
and serve with whipped cream. 

CREAM CAKES 

f c. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Watkins' ginger 

2 eggs, well beaten Wingold flour to roll 

^ c. thin cream 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar to creamed butter, add eggs, ginger, and salt. Then 
alternately add cream, and flour sifted with baking powder. Have 
dough soft enough to roll thin. 

DATE DREAMS 

1 c. butter and lard mixed 2 c. oatmeal, uncooked 

1 c. brown sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ c. milk Wingold flour 

Mix in order given, sifting baking powder with some of the flour. 
Add enough flour to make stiff dough and roll out. Cut out cookies, 
spread one with following mixture and put another over it and bake. 
1 lb. dates, chopped 1 cup sugar 1 c. water 

Boil together till thick enough to spread. Cool before spreading. 

DATE ROLLS 

Use a stiff white cookie dough. Roll into one large thin sheet, 
brush well with j c. melted butter, strew with | lb. dates, chopped 
fine and mixed with j lb. walnuts, chopped. Sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon. Roll the dough over and over like a jelly roll, then cut 
into pieces 1 in. wide. Place onto well greased tins and bake in 
quick oven. 

— 71 — 



DATE TARTS 

2 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. sugar 1 c. chopped walnuts 

3 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 c. chopped dates 

Add sugar to eggs, beat 5 min., add flour sifted with baking pow- 
der and pinch of salt, then dates and walnuts, chopped together. 
Pour into buttered tins about | in. thick. Bake slowly. When done, 
cut into oblong pieces and dust with powdered sugar. 

DELICIOUS TEA CAKES 

1 c. butter . 1 scant c. Wingold flour 

^ c. sugar i tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten light ^ c. raisins, chopped 
Pinch of salt 1 lemon-rind, grated 

Mix in order given (no milk). Spread evenly on sheet tins, 
rather thin. Bake until almost done, then spread following mixture 
over the top and finish baking. 

1 egg yolk, beaten light ^ c. sugar 

Cut into squares and eat while fresh. 

DREAMS (Frosted Wafers) 

1 c. sugar 1 egg-white, beaten stifT 

1 c. water I tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
6 marshmallows 1 c. chopped nuts 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread; remove from fire; 
add cut marshmallows; pour over whites; beat until quite stiff; add 
nuts and vanilla; spread on wafers and bake light brown. 

DROP CAKES 

Mix and sift the following together: 
1| c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. salt 

f c. sugar ^ tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 2 tblsp. cocoa 

Measure the following in one cup: 
J c. melted butter 2 unbeaten eggs Milk to fill the cup 

Add the liquid to the dry ingredients. Beat thoroughly until 
well mixed. Bake in greased muffin tins about 15 min. 

DROP MOLASSES COOKIES 

I c. shortening 1 tsp. soda 

§ c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

5 c. molasses 5 tblsp. boiling water 

1 egg, well beaten ^ tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon and cloves 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in hot water. Drop from 
spoon onto well buttered tin. 

— 72 — 



EGOLESS COOKIES 

1 c. butter, creamed | tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. milk Wingold flour 

Mix in order given. Add flour enough to roll thin. Sprinkle 
with sugar, cut out, and bake in quick oven. 

FIG CAKES 

I c. butter, creamed 2 tblsp. sour cream 

1 c. brown sugar f tsp. soda 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 c. figs, chopped 

I tsp. Watkins' cinnamon Wingold flour to roll 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar to butter, then add eggs and beat well. Add the 
other ingredients, dissolving soda in the cream, and sifting the baking 
powder with part of the flour. Roll figs in flour before adding. Then 
add enough flour to make stiff dough. Roll, cut and bake. 

FILLED SQUARES 

§ c. butter, creamed 3| c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten j tsp. salt 

^ c. sweet milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Mix as for ordinary cakes; roll thin on baking board. Spread 
following paste on half; then fold other half over. Cut into squares 
and bake; or cut with cookie cutter; spread filling on one, then place 
another cookie on top. Bake in quick oven. 

1 c. chopped raisins 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

I c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rinci 

I c. water 

Boil until thick. Cool before spreading. 

FRUIT COOKIES 



f c. butter, creamed | tsp. each Watkins' cloves, nut- 
1^ c. sugar nieg, cinnamon 

1 c. syrup 1 c. nuts, chopped 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 c. raisins, chopped 

1 c. sour milk 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. soda Wingold flour to roll 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in sour milk, and sifting flour 
and baking powder together. Roll, sprinkle sugar over the top, cut, 
and bake in medium oven. 

— 73 — 



FRUIT SNAPS 

1 c. butter 3 eggs, well beaten 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. soda, dissolved in little water 

^ c. syrup 1 tblsp. each of Watkins' cloves and 

1 c. chopped raisins cinnamon 

2 c. currants Wingold flour to stiffen 

Add sugar to creamed butter; add eggs, beat well; then syrup, 
spices, fruit, and soda. Add flour to make dough stiff enough to roll. 
Bake in medium oven. 

GERMAN TEA CAKES 

1| c. butter 1 heaping c. powdered sugar 

3 egg-yolks 4 c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Cqlumet baking powder 

Cream butter, add beaten yolks; beat well; add sugar and beat 
again; gradually work in the flour mixed with baking powder. Knead 
enough flour into the dough to roll out. Use cookie and doughnut 
cutters; spread cakes with egg-white and sprinkle sugar, cinnamon, 
and shaved almonds over the top. 

GINGER CAKES 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

f c. shortening ^ tsp. salt 

1| c. molasses 2 heaping tsp. Watkins' ginger 

I c. boiling water or sour milk Wingold flour enough to roll 

Mix as for ordinary cakes, adding soda to water or milk. 

GINGER COOKIES 

1 c. lard, melted 1 c. hot water 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

^ c. molasses Wingold flour to stiffen 

1| tsp. Watkins' ginger 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten h tsp. salt 

Stir up at night in order given. Dissolve soda in hot water. 
Sift baking powder with flour. Add as much flour as can be stirred 
in with a spoon. Let stand till morning. Roll, cut, and bake. 

GINGER CREAMS 

1 c. shortening 1 tblsp. Watkins' ginger 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. molasses j tsp. salt 

1 c. boiling water Wingold flour to stiffen 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in hot water. Add flour 
until spoon can stand in dough. Let stand over night. Roll out j 

— 74 — 



in. thick and cut into squares. Bake in medium oven. When partly 
cooled, cover with following frosting: 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind 1 tblsp. water 

Powdered sugar enough to spread 

Put into oven a minute to bake frosting. 

GINGER DROPS 

2 c. brown sugar 2 tsp. soda 

1 c. shortening 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' ginger 

1 c. molasses Wingold flour enough to make 

2 c. buttermilk rather a stiff dough 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in buttermilk and mixing 
baking powder with some of the flour. Roll out quite thin. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

GOLD CAKES 

f c. shortening 4 tblsp. sour milk 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

4 egg-yolks Wingold flour to roll 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in sour milk. Flavor with 
Watkins' vanilla or spices. 

GRAHAM COOKIES 

1 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. lard ^ tsp. nutmeg 

2 eggs ^ tsp. salt 

^ c. milk (sweet or sour) Graham flour to roll out 

1 tsp. soda 

Excellent with chopped raisins 

HAZEL NUT BALLS 

5 eggs, beaten very light 2 c. breadcrumbs 

2 c. sugar 8 tblsp. Wingold flour 

2 c. chopped hazel nuts | tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Beat sugar and eggs 10 min. Add other ingredients, sifting flour 
and baking powder together. Roll into small balls between hands. 
Bake in medium oven. 

HARTSHORN COOKIES 

1 c. lard 2 tsp. hartshorn 

3 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

4 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' lemon 

Wingold flour enough to make stiff dough 
Mix in order given, dissolving hartshorn in the milk. Roll thin, 
sprinkle with sugar, bake in medium oven. 

— 75 — 



HERMITS 

f c. ouLier 1 c. currants and chopped raisins mixed 

If c. brown sugar 1 tsp. each of Watkins' cloves, cinnamon and 

2 eggs, well beaten nutmeg 

6 tblsp. milk Wingold flour to make stiff dough 

1 tsp. soda Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to creamed butter; then eggs; then the flour sifted with 
soda, spices, and salt, alternating with the milk; then the fruit dredged 
with flour. Drop from spoon onto greased tin and bake in hot oven. 

JELLY CAKES 

f c. butter f tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 egg, well beaten 2 c. Wingold flour 

I c. milk 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg and milk. Sift dry ingredients 
together and add. Roll out, and cut half with cookie cutter, and 
half with doughnut cutter of same size. Into the center of the first, 
place a tsp. of jelly; then place the other on top of this, placing the 
opening over the jelly. Bake in moderate oven. 

LEMON COOKIES 

1 c. butter, creamed h tsp. soda 

2 c. sugar 1 scant qt. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind | tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in lemon juice, and sifting 
flour, baking powder, and salt. Roll, sprinkle with sugar, cut, and 
bake. 

LEMON CREAMS 

f c. butter 4 eggs, well beaten 

1 c. sugar Ij c. Wingold flour 

1 lemon, grated rind and juice I tsp. soda 

J tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, sifting soda, salt, and flour together. Chill 
dough in ice box. Bake in small cups or gem pans. 

LITTLE POUND CAKES 

I c. butter, creamed Ij heaping c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

4 eggs, well beaten 2 tsp. sweet cream 

Mix in order given. Bake in cupcake tins. Make a boiled 
frosting of 

— 76 — 



1^ c. sugar 2 egg-whites, beaten stiff 

I c. water 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

While hot, divide into three parts; to one add 2 tblsp. of grated 
chocolate; to another add a few drops of pink coloring. The pink 
cakes may be rolled in grated cocoanut. Keep the third part of the 
frosting white. If the cakes are cut into halves before frosting and 
then covered on all sides, a very dainty effect may be obtained. 



LOVE IN A TANGLE 



2 tblsp. thick sweet cream 
Wingold flour 



2 eggs, beaten separately 
2 tblsp. powdered sugar 
Pinch of salt 

Beat eggs separately, then together, then add sugar, salt, cream, 
and enough flour to roll very thin. Cut into long narrow strips and 
fry like doughnuts. Dust with powdered sugar. 



LOVE KNOTS 

2 c. sugar • 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 c. butter and 3 tsp. milk 

1 heaping tblsp. lard mixed 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

5 c. Wingold flour 

Mix in order given. Roll dough very thin. Cut into strips 1 in. 
by 5 in. Join ends; spread with beaten egg and sugar; and bake like 
ordinary cookies. 

MANDEL SCHNITTCHEN 



4 eggs, beaten very light 
1 lb. brown sugar 
^ lb. almonds, chopped 
^ c. raisins, chopped 
^ tsp. salt 

Mix ingredients in order given. Spread thin in shallow pan 
After baking, cut, and frost with powdered sugar, mixed with cream 



1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 
^ tsp. each Watkins' cloves and allspice 

2 c. Wingold flour 
1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 



MAPLE SQUARES 



^ c. butter, creamed 
f c. maple sugar 
1 egg, well beaten 
1 tblsp. milk 
J tsp. salt 



2| c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J tsp. Watkins' cloves 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

^ c. currants 



Sift all dry ingredients together. Mix in order given, adding 
currants last. Roll out an inch thick and cut into squares. Bake in 
a hot oven 15 min. 

— 77 — 



MARGUERITES 

2 eggs, beaten light ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I c. brown sugar 1 c. chopped nutmeats 

I c. Wingold flour Pinch of salt 

Gradually add sugar to eggs; add flour mixed with baking pow- 
der and beat hard. Add nuts; then drop onto buttered tins with half 
a nutmeat on each; dust with ])owdered sugar; then bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

MARSHMALLOW WAFERS 

Place square crackers into shallow baking tins. Place a marsh- 
mallow, the center of which has been pressed down with some instru- 
ment, on top of each cracker. Put a small piece of butter into the 
hollow of each marshmallow. Bake in oven until marshmallow 
spreads over the cracker. Then drop | candied cherry into center 
of each. 

MIDGET CAKES 

1 c. butter f c. cornstarch 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Watkins' lemon or vanilla 

I c. Wingold flour Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to creamed butter; add eggs, then flour, cornstarch, 
baking powder, and salt sifted together; flavor. Put into gem pans 
and sprinkle nuts over the top before baking. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

I c. shortening 1|- tsp. soda dissolved in water 

1 c. brown sugar | tsp. each of Watkins' cloves and ginger 

2 eggs, well beaten Wingold flour to make soft dough 
^ c. molasses j tsp. salt 

Cream sugar and shortening; add eggs, molasses, and dissolved 
soda; then flour, spices, and salt sifted together. Roll out to ^ in. 
thickness; sprinkle with sugar, cut, and bake in medium oven. 

MOLASSES GINGER CAKES 

1 c. lard 1 tsp. Watkins' ginger 

1 c. sugar I tsp. each Watkins' cloves and nutmeg 

1^ c. molasses 1| tsp. soda 

^ tsp. salt 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Wingold flour to stiffen 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in molasses and sifting flour 
with baking powder. Make a very stiff dough and knead well. 
Form into balls, flatten slightly between fingers, dip upper side into 
sugar. Give plenty of room to spread. Bake in medium oven. 

— 78 — 



NUT CHOCOLATE DROPS 

4 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1^ c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. chocolate, grated 1| c. Wingold flour 

f c. chopped nuts j tsp. salt 

Add sugar to eggs and beat several min. Add chocolate, nuts, 
and flour sifted with cinnamon, baking powder, and salt. Drop from 
spoon. Bake slowly. 

OATMEAL CAKES 

1 c. butter and lard mixed f tsp. soda 

Ij c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

2 eggs, well beaten ^ tsp. Watkins' cloves 
4 tblsp. milk 1 c. chopped raisins 

J tsp. salt 2 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. rolled oats 

Mix in order given, sifting salt, soda, spices, and flour together. 
Drop from spoon onto buttered tin. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon on 
top of each cake. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

f c. butter and lard mixed 1| c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

2 eggs, well beaten ^ tsp. each Watkins' nutmeg and 
^ c. milk cloves 

1 level tsp. soda ^ tsp. salt 

2 c. oatmeal, uncooked 1 c. raisins or dates, chopped 

Add sugar to creamed shortening; then eggs, milk, oatmeal, and 
flour, sifted with the soda, spices, and salt. Dredge fruit with flour 
and add. Drop from spoon onto well greased tin and bake in moderate 
oven. 

OATMEAL DROPS 

1| c. melted butter and lard, mixed 1 tsp. soda 

2 c. brown sugar | c. boiling water 

4 eggs, well beaten ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. syrup 4 c. Wingold flour 

1 lb. raisins or dates, chopped 4 c. oatmeal, uncooked 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in boiling water. Drop from 
spoon onto well greased tin. Bake in moderate oven. 

OATMEAL JUMBLES 

h c. butter 1| c. oatmeal 

1 c. sugar 1^ c. Wingold flour 

— 79 — 



1 c. hickory nuts, chopped 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ c. raisins, chopped ^ tsp. soda 

I c. currants h c. boiling water 

Add soda to boiling water, then pour over oatmeal. Cream butter 
and sugar, add nuts, raisins, oatmeal mixture, and flour sifted with 
baking powder. Drop from spoon onto buttered tins and let stand 
1 hr. before baking. Bake in moderate oven. 

OATMEAL KISSES 

1 heaping tblsp. butter 2| c. oatmeal, uncooked 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I c. Wingold flour 

Add sugar to creamed butter, add beaten yolks, vanilla, oatmeal 
and flour sifted with baking powder; then gradually fold in the beaten 
whites. Drop from spoon. Bake in medium oven. 

OATMEAL NUT CAKES 

I c. butter 5 tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar f c. hot water 

2 eggs, well beaten Watkins' cinnamon, allspice, and 
^ c. milk cloves to suit taste 

1 c. chopped raisins 2 c. oatmeal 

1 c. chopped nuts 2 c. Wingold flour 

Add sugar to creamed butter; then add eggs, milk, raisins, nuts, 
spices, and soda dissolved in the hot water. Beat well; then add oat- 
meal and flour. Drop from spoon onto buttered tin. Bake in medium 
oven. 

ORANGE WAFERS 

I c. butter | c. Wingold flour 

I c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten h orange-rind, grated 

Mix in order given. Roll out and bake in moderate oven. 

PEANUT COOKIES 

2 tblsp. butter 1 tSp. Calumet baking powder 
J c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 egg, well beaten f c. Wingold flour 

2 tblsp. milk | c. chopped peanuts 

h tsp. lemon juice or Watkins' extract 

Add sugar to creamed butter, add egg; flour sifted together with 
salt and baking powder; then milk; peanuts; and lemon juice. Drop 
from spoon onto unbuttered wrapping paper, 1 in. apart, and place 

— 80 — 



one-half peanut on top of each. Bake in medium oven 15 min. 
When done, cool, moisten under side by turning paper over, and cakes 
will drop off. 

PEANUT CUTS 

f c. butter 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar I tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Pinch of salt 4 egg-whites, beaten stifif 

Mix all dry indregients like pie crust, then add beaten whites. 
Spread very thin in pan, sprinkle with chopped peanuts, and bake. 
When cool cut into pieces. 

PEANUT DROPS 

1 tblsp. butter | c. Wingold flour 

2 tblsp. sugar ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 
2 tblsp. milk | c. chopped peanuts 

1 egg, well beaten j tsp. salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, egg, and dry ingredients 
sifted together, and then the peanuts. Drop from spoon onto un- 
buffered tin. Place | peanut on each. Bake in slow oven. 

PEANUT MACAROONS 

1 egg-white, beaten stiff ^ 5 tblsp. peanuts, chopped fine 

J c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Gradually beat sugar into beaten white; then fold in peanuts and 
vanilla. Drop from spoon onto well greased inverted tin. Garnish 
each with ^ peanut, then bake in slow oven 15 min. 

PEANUT SQUARES 

f c. cream 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J c. milk 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' lemon extract 

2 eggs, well beaten I tsp. salt 

Mix in order given, sifting flour, baking powder, and salt together. 
Cut into squares and bake in medium oven. When cooled, spread 
with following mixture: 

I c. butter 2 c. powdered sugar 2 tblsp. milk 

Cover with ground peanuts. 

ROCKS 

1 c. butter 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1| c. sugar ^ tsp. Watkins' cloves 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 c. raisins, chopped 
1 c. buttermilk 1| c. nuts, chopped 
3 c. Wingold flour j tsp. salt 

1 tsp. soda 

— 81 — 



Mix in order given, sifting flour, soda, spices, and salt together. 
Drop from spoon and bake in medium oven. 

RUSSIAN ROCKS 

^ c. butter 1 tsp. soda 

1^ c. sugar 3 tsp. hot water 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

§ c. molasses 1 c. raisins, chopped 

J tsp. salt Wingold flour to stiffen 

Mix in order given, adding soda to hot water. Add flour enough 
to make a stiff dough. Drop from spoon onto well greased tin and 
bake in medium oven. 

SAND TARTS 

1 c. butter 1 tblsp. water 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 whole eggs and 3 whites 1 tsp. Watkins' almond flavor 

J tsp. salt Wingold flour to stiffen 

Add sugar to creamed butter; add whole eggs, one at a time; 
then beaten whites, and the other ingredients, sifting flour, baking 
powder, and salt together. Place into ice box until chilled. Drop 
from spoon. 

SCOTTISH FANCIES 

1 egg, beaten very light 1 c. rolled oats 

I c. sugar J tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

f tblsp. melted butter ^ tsp. salt 

Add sugar gradually to egg, add butter and other ingredients. 
Drop from spoon. Bake in modernate oven until brown. Remove 
while hot. 

SMALL NUT CAKES 

^ c. butter If c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 3 level tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
^ c. milk 1 c. chopped nuts 

Mix in order given. Bake in gem tins. 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES 

f c. butter and lard mixed | tsp. salt 

2 c. sugar | tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

4 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. sour cream 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I tsp. soda Wingold flour to make soft dough 

— 82 — 



Mix in order given, dissolving soda in sour cream and sifting 
salt, nutmeg, flour, and baking powder together. Add flour enough 
to make soft dough. Roll out, sprinkle with sugar, cut with cookie 
cutter. 

SOUR MILK COOKIES 

1 egg, well beaten ^ tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I c. sour milk Wingold flour to roll 
^ c. shortening 

Add sugar to creamed butter and lard mixed, add egg, soda dis- 
solved in the sour milk, vanilla, and flour. Roll thin, sprinkle sugar 
on top, cut with cookie cutter, and bake. 

SPICE COOKIES 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 c. raisins, chopped 

3 c. brown sugar 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

4 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. each Watkins' cloves and allspice 

1 c. sour cream 2 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 
3 c. Wingold flour ^ tsp. soda 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given, dissolving soda in sour cream, and sifting 
flour and baking powder. Roll, cut, and bake. 

SPICED NUTS 

5 eggs, beaten very light 4 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking poAvder 
1 grated lemon-rind ^ c. chopped citron 

J tsp. salt 1 tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

I tblsp. each Watkins' cloves, nutmeg, mace, ginger 

Mix in order given, sifting salt, flour, baking powder, and spices 
together. Beat thoroughly while mixing. Roll into balls between 
hands; drop onto well greased tin; and bake in medium oven. 

SWEDISH NUT WAFERS 

I c. shortening, creamed If c. Wingold flour 

f c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten " h tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

^ c. nuts, chopped 

Mix in order given, reserving nuts for the top. Spread evenly 
and thin on well greased inverted tin, sprinkle with the nuts and bake 
in moderate oven. While hot cut into strips f in. by 4| in. with very 
sharp knife, and while still warm roll over' the handle of a wooden 
spoon. May be eaten with or without whipped cream. 

— 83 — 



TEA CAKES 

-2 c. butter | c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Mix in order given, put into cupcake tins, sprinkle grated cocoa- 
nut over the top, and bake in medium oven. 

TOASTED CAKE BARS 

4 large eggs, beaten very light j lb. almonds, cut lengthwise 

1 c. sugar lo c. Wingold flour 

^ lemon, juice and grated rind 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

Add sugar to beaten eggs, beat well, then add lemon and salt. 
Sift flour and baking powder together over the sliced almonds, then 
gradually stir into the egg mixture. Bake in shallow, well greased 
pan in moderate oven. Cut into long narrow strips and while still 
warm, turn on cut surface and toast on both cut sides. 

VANITIES 

2 eggs, beaten light | tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 tsp. salt Wingold flour to mix very stiff 

Roll as thin as possible, cut into squares, and fry in hot lard. 
Drain and sprinkle on both sides with powdered sugar. 

WASHINGTON COOKIES 

^ c. butter 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. powdered sugar 4 c. W^ingold flour 

2 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla or lemon 

Mix in order given, sifting flour and baking powder together. 
Chill the dough in the ice box. Roll and sprinkle with sugar. 

WHITE COOKIES 

1 c. white sugar 1 tsp. flavoring 

f c. butter 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs Wingold flour to roll out 
I cup milk 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, then milk and flour 
to which baking powder has been added. Cocoanut, chopped nuts, 
raisins or currants may be added. 



— 84 — 



Torten 



Torten are the cakes par excellence when nicely made. German 
cooks excel in the preparation of these dainties. Torten are rich in 
nuts, fruits, eggs, and butter, while crumbs of cake or bread usually 
take the place of flour. The nuts are cut, rolled, or ground fine and 
mixed with the crumbs and spices. The baking is an important part 
of the process, for a slow oven is very necessary. Too hot an oven 
will make the Torten tough. Spring forms in which Torten should 
be baked are tins with removable sides. 

ALMOND TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. chopped almonds 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat whites until very stiff, add sugar gradually, then beaten 
yolks. Mix almonds, baking powder, and flour; fold this into first 
mixture. Bake in slow oven from 40 min. to 1 hr. 

ALMOND CARROT TORTE 

7 eggs, beaten separately 1 lemon-rind, grated 

1 c. sugar 5 tblsp. Wingold flour 

^ lb. almonds, chopped 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. grated raw carrots 

Beat sugar and yolks very light, then add whites and beat again. 
Add the other ingredients, adding carrots last. Bake in spring form 
in slow oven 1 hr. 

ALMOND CHEESE TORTE 

1 c. butter, creamed | lb. almonds, chopped 

1 c. sugar 5 tblsp. bread crumbs 

10 eggs, beaten separately 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

^ lb. cottage cheese, riced 

Cream sugar and butter, add yolks and the other ingredients. 
Fold whites in last. Bake in well greased spring form in moderate 
oven until well set. Coat with chocolate icing. 

ALMOND DATE TORTE 

5 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. chopped almonds 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. chopped dates ^ c. grated toast 

Beat yolks and sugar \ hr. Add dates, almonds, and crumbs and 
baking powder mixed. Lastly add whites, beaten stiff with a pinch 
of salt. Serve with custard or whii)ped cream. May be baked as 
layer or flat cake. 

— 85 — 



ALMOND ORANGE TORTE 

6 egg-yolks 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Ij c. sugar 1 c. bread crumbs 

f lb. blanched almonds, chopped 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

J tsp. salt 8 egg whites 

Beat yolks and sugar 10 min. Mix almonds, baking powder and 
crumbs together and add to egg mixture. Then add vanilla and 
stiffly beaten whites. Bake in three large layers or four small ones. 
Put layers together with following filling: 
2 egg yolks Juice of 3 oranges 

^ c. sugar 1 orange rind, grated 

2 heaping tsp. cornstarch Juice § lemon 

I c. water 

Boil until thick and put between layers. Cover top with whipped 
cream. 

AMBROSIA TORTE 

^ c. butter 1 c. sweet milk 

1| c. sugar 2^ scant c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. cream of tartar 
I lb. sweet chocolate ^ tsp. soda 

Grate the chocolate, add | of the milk and | c. sugar, bring to a 
boil over slow fire. Take from fire, add rest of the milk, and cool. 
Sift flour before measuring, sift flour and soda three times. Cream 
butter and rest of sugar, add the yolks. Beat the whites to a foam, 
add cream of tartar, then beat until very stiff, and fold in. Add the 
chocolate mixture and lastly the flour. Stir very hard for 5 min. 
Bake in ungreased spring form in slow oven for 1 hr. 

APPLE TORTE 

1 c. Wingold flour 1 tblsp. butter 

1 tsp. Calumet baking j^owder 1 egg, well beaten 

2 tsp. sugar ^ c. milk 

Mix first four ingredients like pie crust, add the egg and milk. 
Divide the dough. Press ^ into a biscuit pan. Fill with a good bak- 
ing apple, add sugar. Then roll out remainder of dough and put over 
apples as top crust. Bake 30 min. Mix light brown sugar and 
cream and spread over top while still hot. Cool and serve. 

APRICOT TORTE 

I c. butter 1 c. Wingold flour 

^ c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 eggs, -beaten light 

Spread dough on bottom and around sides of spring form. Bake 
in medium oven. When done, fill partly with cut fresh apricots and 
cover with following mixture: 

— 86 — 



5 eggs, beaten separately § lb. almonds, blanched and chopped 
1 c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Then bake the whole cake for 1 hr. in a slow oven. 

BANANA GRAHAM TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. graham cracker crumbs 1 c. nuts, chopped 

Beat yolks and sugar 10 min., fold in the whites carefully, add 
slowly the crumbs, mixed with the flour and baking powder, then the 
nuts. Bake in two layers, then cover each layer with bananas and 
whipped cream. 

BERLINER TORTE 

2 c. Wingold flour 3 tblsp. sugar 
1 c. butter 2 eggs 

Mix flour and butter as for pie crust, using two knives; add sugar, 
and eggs, one at a time, without beating. Spread on bottom and 
sides of a spring form. Put f c. sugar and j lb. chopped almonds in 
a spider over the fire; stir until brown; spread onto dough. Mix any 
kind of fruit with 4 beaten eggs, 1 heaping tblsp. cornstarch, 1 scant 
c. milk or cream. Put this onto the cake and bake 1 hr. in slow oven. 
Serve with or without whipped cream. 

BIRTHDAY TORTE 

6 egg whites, beaten very stiff 1 tblsp. vinegar 

3 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat all together until very stiff, beating about | hr. Bake in 
two pie tins with loose bottom in very slow oven for 30 min. Take a 
little of the mixture out for trimmings, making about twenty little 
kisses by dropping j tsp. on oiled paper. Put layers together with 
fruit and whipped cream. On top put whipped cream, garnish this 
with chopped nuts, the little kisses, and candied cherries. 

BISMARCK TORTE 

1 tblsp. butter 3 tblsp. milk 

1 tblsp. sugar I tsp. salt 

1 egg 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Put together as for ordinary cake. Use spring form. Line dish 
well up on sides. Fill with fresh berries or fruit. Cover with follow- 
ing meringue: Beat 4 whites very stiff, add 4 beaten yolks, f c. 
sugar, and 1 c. ground almonds. Bake in very slow oven from 50 
min. to an hr. 

BLACKBERRY TORTE 

^ c. butter § lb. almonds, chopped 

1 c. sugar 1 lemon rind, grated 

— 87 — 



2 eggs, well beaten | tsp. Watkins' cinnamon • 

1 heaping c. Wingold flour 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and other ingredients. Line 
a spring form with dough by pressing it into the pan with the hand, 
since it is too soft to roll out. Bake this, then strew thickly with 
crumbs, and fill with sugared blackberries. Cover with meringue 
made of 4 egg whites and ^ c. sugar. Place in oven to brown. It is 
advisable to bake this the day before being used, for it becomes more 
luscious. 

BLITZ TORTE 

^ c. butter 5 c. sugar 

4 egg-yolks 4 tblsp. milk 

1 c. Wingold flour | orange rind, grg,ted 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix as for ordinary cake. Bake in two layers. Cover with fol- 
lowing meringue before baking: Beat 4 whites very stiff, add 1 c. 
powdered sugar. Sprinkle with sliced, blanched almonds or shredded 
cocoanut and bake in slow oven 30 min. Put together with whipped 
cream, fruit, or custard filling. For custard filling see index. 

BLUEBERRY TORTE 

2 tblsp. melted butter 1 qt. blueberries 
2 tblsp. sugar 1 egg yolk 

1 egg, well beaten 1 tblsp. cream 

f c. Wingold flour 4 tblsp. sugar 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 4 egg whites 

J c. powdered sugar 
Make a dough of first five ingredients. Roll thin and spread over 
bottom and sides of greased spring form. Bake till nearly done in 
hot oven; then add blueberries, drained if canned berries are used. 
Add sugar and cream to beaten yolk and pour over berries. Finish 
baking in moderate oven till crust is well browned. Then cover with 
whites beaten with sugar; place back in oven to brown. Use less 
sugar if canned berries are used. 

BREAD TORTE 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. sugar I tsp. Watkins' cloves 

J lb. almonds, chopped 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 
1 c. ground rye bread 

Beat sugar and yolks very light; add other ingredients, mixing 

crumbs and baking powder. Add whites last. Bake in spring form 
in moderate oven 50 min. 

BREAD POTATO TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately j lb. chopped almonds 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 



2 c. grated rye bread 1 tblsp. brandy 

1 c. grated potatoes (boiled | tsp. Calumet baking powder 

without peeling) j tsp. salt 

x^dd sugar to beaten yolks, beat 10 min. Mix bread crumbs and 
baking powder and add to egg mixture; add potatoes, salt, almonds, 
cinnamon and lastly the beaten whites. Bake in spring form, without 
greasing pan f hr. in medium oven. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

CARROT TORTE 

10 eggs, beaten separately 1 lb. raw carrots, grated 

2 c. sugar 3 tblsp. cornstarch 

1 lb. almonds, chopped 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

J tsp. salt 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Beat sugar and yolks | hr., then add carrots and beat another 
10 min. Add the other ingredients, folding in the whites last. Bake 
in spring form in slow oven for 1 hr. Very good. 

CHEESE CAKE TORTE 

1 egg, well beaten 1 scant c. Wingold flour 

I c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Butter, size of an egg, melted | c. milk 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Cover bottom and sides of spring form with dough. Fill with 
the following: 

1 lb. cottage cheese 1 lemon rind, grated 

4 egg yolks, beaten light 1 tblsp. farina 

1 c. sugar 3 tblsp. melted butter 

I tsp. salt 

Mix thoroughly before filling in. Cover with whites beaten with 
^ c. sugar. Sprinkle cinnamon over this. Bake in slow oven for 1 hr. 

CHESTNUT TORTE 

8 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. bread crumbs 

f c. sugar 1| lb. chestnuts, before shelling 

I lb. almonds 

To shell chestnuts, cut into the flat side of nut with sharp knife. 
To each pt. of nuts, add 1 tsp. butter. Place into oven for 5 min., 
shaking the nuts occasionally. Remove outer and inner shell at 
same time. Boil the nuts with a little milk until tender, then 
put through ricer. Beat sugar and yolks until very light, add the 
other ingredients, folding whites in last. Bake in spring form in 
slow oven for 1 hr. 

— 89 — 



CHOCOLATE TORTE 

14 eggs, beaten separately j lb. sweet chocolate, grated 

1 c. sugar 1 c. Wingold flour 

Beat sugar and yolks ^ hr., then add the whites, chocolate, and 
flour. Bake in spring form or angel food tin 1 hr. in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE CRUMB TORTE 

5 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. almonds, chopped 1 strip sweet chocolate, grated 

1 c. rye bread crumbs ^ tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 lemon rind, grated 

Beat sugar and yolks very light, add other ingredients, mixing 
flour and baking powder, and adding whites last. Bake in spring 
form in slow oven for 1 hr. 

CHOCOLATE DATE TORTE 

9 eggs, beaten separately 2 pieces sweet chocolate 

If c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lemon, rind and juice 8 soda crackers, rolled 

6 oz. dates 

Stir yolks, sugar, lemon, dates, and grated chocolate together 30 
min.; then add crackers mixed with baking powder, and beaten whites. 
Bake 1 hr. in slow oven. Frost with chocolate icing. 

CHOCOLATE LADY FINGER TORTE 

(No Baking) 
2f doz. lady fingers | c. water 

f bar sweet chocolate 5 eggs, beaten separately 

J c. sugar I pt. whipped cream 

Line sides and bottom of a small spring form with separated lady 
fingers, round sides towards pan. Melt chocolate with water and 
sugar in double boiler, gradually add yolks, then stir and cook until 
smooth and thick. Cool, then fold in the whites. Pour half this mix- 
ture on first layer of lady fingers, then place another row of fingers, 
cover with remainder of mixture, and place row of fingers on top. 
Place into ice box 12 hrs. When ready to serve cover with whipped 
cream and decorate wuth cherries. Very fine. 

CHOCOLATE POTATO TORTE 

1 c. butter, creamed -| c. grated chocolate 

2 c. sugar f c. milk 

4 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

— 90 — 



1 c. potatoes, boiled and grated 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. almonds, chopped 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given. Bake in spring form in medium oven for 
about 1 hr. 

CHOCOLATE WALNUT TORTE 

9 eggs, beaten separately | lb. walnuts, chopped 

1 c. sugar I c. cracker crumbs 
J c. grated chocolate 

Beat sugar and yolks very light. Add other ingredients, folding 
whites in last. Bake in two layers, putting them together with fol- 
lowing filling: 

2 egg yolks 1 c. cream 

3 tblsp. sugar Juice of 1 lemon 
^ lb. walnuts, chopped 

Dust top with powdered sugar or coat with chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE ZWIEBACK TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. grated Zwieback 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon | c. almonds, chopped 

and cloves 1 c. grated chocolate 

Beat sugar and yolks very light, add other ingredients, mixing 
Zwieback and baking powder, and adding whites last. Bake in two 
layers, putting them together with raspberry jam. Serve with 
whipped cream or coat with. chocolate. 

CORNSTARCH SAND TORTE 

1 c. butter, creamed 5 eggs, beaten separately 

1 c. powdered sugar f c. Wingold flour 

f c. cornstarch 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given, stirring at least | hr. before folding in the 
beaten whites. Bake in deep tin 1 hr. 

CRUMBLE TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 5 lb. chopped dates 

^ lb. powdered sugar 6 tblsp. bread crumbs 

I lb. chopped walnuts 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

J tsp. salt 

Add sugar to beaten yolks. Mix bread crumbs, baking powder, 
and salt, and add to egg mixture. Add dates and nuts, and lastly 
beaten whites. Bake in shallow tins. When ready to serve, break 
cake into small pieces and put into dish alternately a layer of cake and 
one of cream. 

— 91 — 



DATE TORTE 

J c. butter 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs 1 c. chopped dates 

J c. milk 1 c. chopped walnuts 

Bake in two layers. Put together with rich custard or serve with 
whipped cream. 

Custard Filling 

1 c. milk or cream • 2 tblsp. sugar 

1 tblsp. cornstarch 1 egg yolk 

Cook until thick; when cool, add beaten white. Flavor to suit 
taste. 

DIVINITY TORTE 

1 c. butter 6 eggs, beaten separately 

3 pts. sliced apples 6 tblsp. milk 

1 c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Stew the apples in the melted butter and sugar. Beat yolks and 
milk together until light, then add apple mixture, lemon, and lastly the 
beaten whites. Line a spring form with grated Zwieback, pour in 
the apple cream, and put crumbs on top, with chopped almonds, and 
cinnamon. Zwieback is German coffee cake cut into slices and browned 
in the oven. Six of these slices should be used, putting more crumbs 
at the bottom than on top. Put into slow oven until apple cream is 
well set. 

ENGLISH WALNUT TORTE 

8 eggs, beaten separately 8 soda crackers, rolled line 

2 c. sugar 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

Beat sugar and eggs very light. Add crackers, nuts, and lastly 
the beaten whites. Mix well, and bake in slow oven. 

FARINA TORTE 

2 c. powdered sugar ^ c. bread crumbs 

f c. farina | c. nuts 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 6 eggs, beaten separately 

Beat yolks, add sugar, farina and bread crumbs mixed with bak- 
ing powder, and nuts. Stir 15 min. Beat whites very stiff, fold in 
gradually. Bake in layers or flat tin. Serve with whipped cream. 

FILBERT TORTE 

8 eggs, beaten separately | lb. filberts, chopi)ed 

1| c. powdered sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

I c. bread crumbs ^ ^-sp- Calumet baking powder 

Beat sugar and yolks 15 min., mix crumbs and baking powder 
and add, add nuts, lemon, and whites last. Bake in spring form in 

— 92 — 



slow oven for 50 min. May be baked in layers and served with fresh 
fruit and whipped cream 

FILLED APPLE TORTE 

I lb. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

I lb. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 egg yolks, well beaten 

Line spring form or deep baking dish with dough and bake. 
When baked, fill with the following: 

Cook apples in wine or any fruit sauce, add chopped raisins and 
nuts, and one grated lemon-rind. Frost the top with 1 egg-white 
beaten with 2 tblsp. sugar. Put into oven to brown. 

FILLED CHERRY TORTE 

1 lb. Wingold flour 1 egg-yolk 
5 oz. butter 2 tsp. milk 

2 oz. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Press into spring form and fill with fresh or canned cherries with- 
out juice. 

Sponge for top: Beat 6 egg-yolks very light, add j lb. sugar, j 
lb. almonds, 1 grated lemon-rind, 6 whites, beaten stiff; pour 
over cake with cherries. Bake 1 hr. Serve with whipped cream. 

FILLED POPPYSEED TORTE 

G eggs, beaten separately j lb. almonds, chopped 

I c. sugar 2 tblsp. raisins, chopped 

1 c. poppyseed, ground 1 tblsp. citron, cut fine 

1 lemon rind, grated 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Line spring form with dough-part of any filled Torte recipe; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, then fill with above recipe. Add sugar 
to yolks and beat 10 min., add other ingredients, folding whites in 
last. Fill into the form and bake in slow oven for 1 hr. 

FRUIT TORTE 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar Butter, size of an egg 

Beat sugar and yolks 15 min., then add whites, the flour, and 
then the butter, melted. Place dough into spring form, cover abun- 
dantly with fresh fruit, then bake 1 hr. in slow oven. 

GERMAN CHEESE TORTE 

1 package National Zwieback 1^ level tblsp. Wingold flour 
1 c. sugar 2 lb. cottage cheese 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon | pt. cream 

— 93 — 



J c. melted butter j tsp. salt 

3 eggs, beaten light 1 lemon, grated rind and little juice 

Grate the Zwieback, add sugar and cinnamon, then pour melted 
butter over this. Keep out some of mixture to sprinkle over top of 
cake. Line greased spring form with above mixture, and fill with 
cheese filling. Mix sugar and flour, add to eggs, then add cheese, 
cream, salt, and lemon. When mixed put through ricer, then fill 
crust. Sprinkle top with rest of Zwieback and bake in slow oven 
1 hr. 

GRAHAM CRACKER TORTE 

^ c. butter 1^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. sugar 25 graham crackers, rolled fine 

3 eggs, well beaten ^ c. chopped nuts 

f c. milk I lemon rind, grated 

Mix in order given above, mixing baking powder and crackers. 
Bake in layers in hot oven. Serve with custard filling, flavored with 
juice and rind of orange. (See index). 

HAZELNUT TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. wheat bread crumbs 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lb. hazelnuts, chopped 3 tblsp. brandy 

Reserve | of nuts and crumbs for filling. Mix baking powder 
with remainder of crumbs. Add sugar to yolks, then add other in- 
gredients, folding in whites at last. Bake in layers. Use following 
filling: 

^ c. sugar 1 tblsp. brandy 

1 c. milk 1 tblsp. butter 

Let all ingredients come to boil, then add nuts and crumbs re- 
served for filling and boil until thick. Frost with chocolate icing. 

HEIDELBERG TORTE 

2 c. flour 2 tblsp. sugar 
^ c. butter 2 egg yolks 

2 tblsp. water 

Mix quickly, then set into cool place to harden. Line a spring 
form with the dough, and fill with the following: 

1 lb. almonds, blanched and chopped 2 c. powdered sugar 

2 lemons, juice and some of grated rind 8 egg whites, beaten stilif 

Bring almonds, sugar, and lemon to a boil; beat a few minutes, 
then add beaten whites, and fill into form. Place strips of dough 
over the top. Bake in very slow oven 1 hr. 

— 94 — 



HICKORY NUT TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. hickory nut meats 

1 heaping c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. farina i tsp. salt 

Beat sugar and yolks 15 min. Add nuts, and the farina mixed 
with salt and baking powder. Fold whites in last. Bake in spring 
form 1 hr. in slow oven. Serve wnth whipped cream. 

HIMMELS TORTE 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. sugar ^ lb. dates, chopped 

2 heaping tblsp. Wingold flour ^ c. walnuts, chopped 

When baked, break into pieces, then add 2 oranges and 2 bananas 
sliced, and serve with whipped cream. 

HIMMELS LAYER TORTE 

1 c. butter, creamed 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 egg yolks, beaten light 

Bake in three layers. The dough is very stiff and must be pressed 
thin. It does not rise much. Put layers together with raspberry 
jam, covered with mixture made of 3 egg whites, 1 c. confectioners' 
sugar, and 1 c. chopped nuts, without boiling. Cover the top with 
powdered sugar. 

LADY FINGER BAKED TORTE 

10 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. grated lady fingers 

1| c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

f lb. almonds, chopped 

Beat sugar and yolks 15 min., add almonds, crumbs mixed with 
baking powder, and lastly the whites. Bake in spring form in mod- 
erate oven Ij hrs. Bake this Torte a day or two before using it; 
then cut crosswise into 3 or 4 or as many layers as possible, the day 
before serving it; and put layers together with following filling: 

2 c. milk 2 egg yolks 

2 tsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Sprinkle powdered sugar over the top. 

LADY FINGER TORTE 

(No Baking) 
1 c. butter, creamed 2 lemons 

1 c. sugar 2| doz. lady fingers 

3 eggs, well beaten 

Cream sugar and butter, add eggs, then the juice of one lemon 
and the rind of two. Stir this for 15 min. Cover bottom of a spring 

— 95 — 



form with separated lady fingers to make solid foundation, also place 
them around inside rim, standing them up lengthwise close together, 
with broken edge towards the inside. Put about one half the filling 
onto this, then another layer of lady fingers, the remainder of the 
filling, and then lady fingers on toji. Place into ice box for 24 hrs. 
Before serving, cover with fresh fruit and whipped cream. Very 
fine and requires no baking. 

LEMON TORTE 

5 eggs 1 c. sugar 

J tsp. salt 1 c. Wingold flour 

^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Beat eggs | hr.; add the other ingredients; beat again. Bake in 
three layers. Put layers together with following filling: 
1 egg 1 heaping tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 c. water 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind Pinch of salt 

Sprinkle powdered sugar over the top of cake, or cover with 
whipped cream. 

LEMON APPLE TORTE 

1 c. sponge cake crumbs 1 lemon, juice and part of rind 

4 eggs, beaten separately 3 apples, grated 

f c. sugar I c. almonds, chopped 

Beat sugar and yolks 10 min.; add apples, crumbs, lemon and lastly 
the whites. Put into spring form, sprinkle almonds on top, pressing 
them in. Bake in moderate oven § hr. Serve as dessert with whipped 
<:ream. 

LEMON LADY FINGER TORTE 

(No Baking) 
2| doz. lady fingers 1 c. rich milk 

1 tblsp butter 1 tsp. cornstarch 

^ c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

3 eggs, beaten separately ^ pt. whipped cream 

Line bottom and sides of spring form with separated lady fingers, 
round side toward pan and close together. Cook butter, sugar, yolks, 
milk, and cornstarch until thick, then add the lemon and whites. 
Place I of mixture onto lady fingers, add another layer of fingers, then 
the rest of the mixture, and a layer of lady fingers on top. Place into 
ice box over night. When ready to serve, cover with the whipped 
cream. Orange may be used instead of lemon. 

LINZER TORTE 

1 c. butter | lb. almonds, chopped 

1 c. sugar I tsp, each Watkins' cinnamon 

— 96 — 



6 egg yolks, beaten light and cloves 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 lemon rind grated 

Press the larger part of the dough into bottom and sides of spring 
form. Cover the bottom with sliced pineapple, next a layer of sliced 
oranges, then sliced bananas, then a few thin slices of lemon. Sift 
sugar between layers of fruit. Repeat layers until dish is full and 
cover top layer with chopped nuts. Lay over the top narrow strips 
of remaining dough, then cross these with other strips of dough. 
Bake in moderate oven 1 hr. When ready to serve place into each 
little mesh, made by crossing strips of dough, a small piece of bright 
red jelly. 

MACAROON TORTE 

Make a dough of 

3 c. Wingold flour 5 egg yolks, boiled hard 
1^ c. butter 1 raw egg 

1 c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Rub yolks to a paste, add raw egg. Cut butter into flour, add 
other ingredients and quickly work into soft dough. Line bottom 
and sides of spring form with this dough, pressing it in with fingers. 
Before baking fill with following. 
14 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 c. powdered sugar 1 lb. almonds, blanched and chopped 

Add sugar to whites and beat 10 min., add vanilla and nuts. 
Bake in slow oven 1 hr. Serve with whipped cream. 

MACAROON ALMOND TORTE 

(Not Baked) 
1 c. butter 1 pt. whipped cream 

1| c. powdered sugar 30 macaroons 

6 eggs, beaten separately 18 lady fingers 

I lb. almonds, blanched and grated 

Line bottom of spring form with waxed paper. Place separated 
lady fingers close together on sides of pan, rounded ends cut off, the 
round side toward the pan. Lay the macaroons close together onto bot- 
tom, flat side down and fill in the small spaces with lady finger ends. 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, beat well, then add the 
nuts and lastly fold in the whites. Spread | of thrs mixture over the 
macaroons, add another layer of macaroons, then the rest of the 
mixture. Place into ice box at least 24 hrs. When ready to serve, slip 
onto platter, cover with whipped cream and decorate with coarse maca- 
roon crumbs and candied cherries. 

MILWAUKEE POTATO TORTE 

1 c. butter, creamed 1 c. grated potatoes 

2 c. sugar 2^ c. Wingold flour 

4 eggs, beaten light 2| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

— 97 — 



J lb. almonds, chopped | c. milk 

5 oz. grated sweet chocolate 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 lemon rind, grated | tsp. Watkins' cloves 

Mix in order given. Bake in spring form in slow oven for 1 hr. 

MOHN (POPPYSEED) TORTE 

8 eggs, beaten separately j lb. raisins, chopped 

1| c. sugar J lb. citron, chopped 

§ lb. poppy seed | c. Wingold flour 

I lb. almonds, chopped Watkins' cinnamon and cloves to taste 

Beat sugar and yolks j hr., add other ingredients, folding whites 
in last. Bake in spring form 1 hr. Serve with whipped cream. 

NUT TORTE 

8 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. cracker crumbs 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lb. walnuts, chopped 1 lemon rind, grated 

Beat sugar and yolks, then add other ingredients well mixed. 
Fold in whites last. Bake in two layers. Put together with lemon 
or cream filling. 

ORLEANS TORTE 

1| c. butter 1 lemon rind, grated 

^ c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 tsp. mixed spices, ground fine 4 c. Wingold flour 

Mix until the dough will no longer stick to the hands. Then 
press into four unbuttered layer tins and bake in slow oven until 
brown. When layers are cold, put them together with raspberry 
jelly or jam. Frost with a plain white frosting, over which spread a 
good chocolate frosting. This cake is best when a day or two old. 

OUR SCHWARZBROD TORTE 

12 eggs, beaten separately ^ lb. almonds, chopped fine 

J lb. rye bread, dried and grated 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

h wine-glass of wine or grape juice 1 tblsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

I lb. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' cloves 

1 lemon rind, grated Citron, small piece, cut fine 

Dampen the grated rye bread with the wine or grape juice. Add 
sugar to the beaten eggs and beat 15 min. Add citron, lemon rind, 
and spices, also nuts and flour. Fold in the egg-whites beaten very 
stiff. Bake in slow oven a good hr. 

PEACH TORTE 

1 c. butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

^ c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

— 98 — 



1 whole egg 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 egg yolk 

Line a spring form by hand with this dough. Then half fill the 
form with sliced peaches mixed with sugar, and cover with following 
custard: 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. sweet cream 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

J lb. almonds, chopped 
Add sugar to yolks, then add cream, vanilla, almonds, and lastly 
the beaten whites. Pour over peaches and bake 1 hr. Cherries may 
be used instead of peaches. 

POTATO TORTE 

9 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 c. sugar f lb. potato, boiled and grated 

^ oz. citron, cut fine | oz. candied orange peel, cut fine 

Beat sugar and yolks | hr., then add other ingredients, folding 
whites in last. Bake in spring form in slow oven 1 hr. 

POTATO BREAD TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 2 c. grated rye bread 

1^ c. sugar 1 c. grated potatoes 

J lb. almonds, chopped 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 tblsp. brandy 
Beat sugar and yolks 10 min.; add other ingredients, adding 
brandy to crumbs; add beaten whites last. Bake | hr.; do not grease 
pan; serve with whipped cream. 

PRUNE TORTE 

9 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon and all- 

If c. sugar spice 

16 prunes, chopped 1 heaping c. cracker crumbs 

3 tblsp. grated chocolate 2 tblsp. brandy, wine, or lemon juice 

Rub prunes to smooth paste with brandy. Beat sugar and yolks 
very light, then add prunes and other ingredients, adding whites last. 
Bake in spring form in slow oven for 1 hr. Dates may be used instead 
of prunes. 

RYE BREAD TORTE 

5 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. grated rye bread 

1 large c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind j lb. chopped almonds 

J tsp. salt 

Add sugar to beaten yolks and lemon; beat 10 min. Mix bread 
crumbs and baking powder, then add to egg mixture. Add almonds 
and stiffly beaten egg-whites. Bake in slow oven f hr. 

— 99 — 



SAND TORTE 

2 c. butter, creamed ^ lb. almonds, grated 

2 c. sugar 4 scant c. Wingold flour 

10 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix in order given, stirring at least | hr. before folding in the 
beaten whites. Bake in deep tin for at least 1 hr. 

SCHAUM TORTE 

(Delicious) 

6 egg whites Pinch of cream of tartar 

2 c. sugar 1 tblsp. vinegar 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat whites lightly, then add cream of tartar and beat very stiff. 
Gradually add sugar, vanilla, and vinegar, then beat | hr. Fill into 
spring form and bake very slowly 1 hr. When ready to use, care- 
fully cut off the top; fill with fresh strawberries or other fruit and cover 
with heavy whipped cream, then replace the top, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and serve. 

VIENNA TORTE 

1 c. sugar 5 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. butter 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. crushed cardamom 
4 tblsp. milk 

Roll out and bake in 5 layers. 

Filling 

3 c. prunes 1^ c. sugar 

Boil prunes and sugar with a little water, When tender, remove 
pits and mash. Put between layers. Sprinkle top with powdered 
sugar or cover with frosting. 

WALNUT TORTE 

8 eggs, beaten separately 1^ c. bread crumbs 

2 c. powdered sugar 1 lemon rind, grated 
1 lb. walnuts 

Beat sugar and yolks 10 min., add other ingredients, folding in 
whites last. Bake in spring form in slow oven 1 hr. 

WALNUT DATE TORTE 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. sugar 1 c. dates, chopped 

I c. Wingold flour 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

Beat sugar and yolks 5 min., fold in the whites, then the flour 
sifted with the baking powder and a pinch of salt, then the dates and 
walnuts. Bake 20 min. in shallow pan. Serve with whipped cream, 
or sprinkle top with powdered sugar. 

— 100 — 



WALNUT FARINA TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately i c. toast crumbs 

1 c. sugar 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

I c. farina i tsp. salt 

Beat sugar and yolks until creamy. Add other ingredients, 
folding in whites last. Bake in 3 small layers 20 min. Put together 
with raspberry jam and cover with whipped cream. 

WALNUT GRAHAM TORTE 

6 egg yolks, beaten light 1 c. graham cracker crumbs 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. walnuts, chopped 2 egg-whites, beaten very stiff 

Beat yolks and sugar 10 min. Add nuts, crumbs, and flour 
sifted with baking powder 3 times. Lastly add whites, beaten with 
pinch of salt. Bake in layers and fill with whipped cream. 

WALNUT LAYER TORTE 

6 eggs, beaten separately f c. bread crumbs 

1 c. sugar f c. farina 

1 c. walnuts, broken 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Add sugar to yolks; beat 5 min.; add walnuts, and crumbs, farina, 
and baking powder mixed; then fold in the whites. Bake in two 
layers. Use grated pineapple and whipped cream between layers. 

YAEGER TORTE 

5 whole eggs f lb. almonds, cut fine 

4 eggs, beaten separately | lemon rind, grated 

1^ c. sugar 

Beat 5 whole eggs and 4 yolks 15 min.; add sugar, almonds, and 
lemon; then beat until it thickens. When quite thick, fold in the 4 
extra whites. Bake in spring form in slow oven 1 hr. When cool, 
cover with any fresh fruit and whipped cream. 

ZWIEBACK TORTE 

12 eggs, beaten separately | lb. grated Zwieback 

1| c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind | lb. almonds, chopped 

1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon | tsp. each Watkins' nutmeg and 

allspice 

Beat sugar and yolks thoroughly; then add the other ingredients, 
mixing crumbs and baking powder, and adding beaten whites last. 
Mix thoroughly and bake in moderate oven. When nearly done, 
spread melted butter over the top and sprinkle with sugar. Zwie- 
back is toasted coffee cake. 

— 101 — 



Candies 

BUTTER SCOTCH. No. I 

1 c. molasses 1 c. butter 

2 c. sugar | c. hot water 

Boil until brittle when tried in cold water. Pour into well but- 
tered tins, then set away to cool. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. No. H 

2 c. brown sugar 5 c. water 

I c. butter 

Boil until hard when dropped into cold water. Then pour into 
buttered pans to cool. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

4 oranges, thin-skinned | c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar 

Remove peel from oranges in quarters. Cover with cold water 
and cook slowly until soft. Drain, remove white portion by scraping 
with a spoon, and cut yellow portion into thin strips, using scissors. 
Boil I c. water and c. sugar until syrup will thread. Cook strips in 
syrup 5 min., drain, and coat with granulated sugar. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. No. I 

1 c. white sugar ^ cake chocolate 

1 c. brown sugar | c. butter 

1 c. cream 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

Dissolve chocolate in 1 c. hot water. Boil this with all the other 
ingredients except the cream for | hr., then add the cream and boil 
another | hr., stirring constantly. Pour into buttered pan, cut into 
squares while soft, then place cool to harden. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. No. H 

2 c. molasses 1 tblsp. butter 

1 c. light brown sugar 1 c. sweet cream 

I lb. grated chocolate 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Boil until crisp when dropped into cold water. Pour into but- 
tered pans, and cut into squares. Nuts may be added. 

SUGARED DATES 

Remove stones from dates, then stuff with walnuts, pecans, or 
roasted peanuts. Roll dates in sugar. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

To the white of 1 egg add an equal cjuantity of cold water, stir 
in 1 lb. of confectioners' sugar, flavor with vanilla, then work with 
the hand until smooth, mould into small balls and dip into melted 
chocolate. 

— 102 — 



COCOA WALNUT FUDGE 

2 c. sugar 1 tblsp. butter 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
^ c. cocoa 

Boil, without stirring, until it strings, then add vanilla, beat 
until almost hard. Cover the bottom of a greased tin with black 
walnut meats, pour mixture over this, mark off into squares. 

FUDGE. No. I 

2 c. sugar 1 large tblsp. butter 

1 c. milk 3 sq. of chocolate 
Pinch of soda 

Cook all together until it will hold together in cold water, then 
remove from fire, and beat until it begins to get hard, pour into but- 
tered tins to cool. If liked, add 1 c. chopped nuts while beating. 

FUDGE. No. II 

2 sq. chocolate, grated ^ c. syrup 

1 c. milk 2 tblsp. butter 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Cook all ingredients, except vanilla, until a soft ball is formed 
when tried in cold water. Remove from fire, add vanilla, and beat 
until thick and creamy. Pour into buttered pan, when nearly cold 
mark into squares. 

MAPLE CREAMS 

Take | as much water as maple sugar, cook without stirring. 
When nearly done, add 1 tblsp. butter, then boil until syrup hardens 
when tried in cold water. Take from fire, beat rapidly until it be- 
comes a waxy substance, then form into small balls by hand and 
press half a walnut onto each side. 

NUT LOAF 

6 c. sugar 1 c. white syrup 

3 c. cream 1| c. chopped walnuts 

Boil sugar, cream, and syrup until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water, then beat until quite stiff, add the nuts and a few candied cher- 
ries and beat until thick and creamy. Put into a loaf tin. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

1 lb. roasted peanuts 1 lb. sugar 

Melt the sugar over fire to a syrup, stirring constantly, then add 
the nuts, and pour into buttered tins. 

PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE 

2 c. sugar 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 
2 sq. chocolate, grated 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I tsp. butter 2 large tblsp. peanut butter 

— 103 — 



Mix first three ingredients with enough water to moisten well, 
boil slowly until it reaches the soft ball stage, then pour slowly into 
beaten whites, beating constantly, add vanilla and peanut butter and 
beat until it hardens. Pour into buttered pans, when cool mark off 
into squares. 

PEANUT CANDY 

1 c. molasses ^ c. butter 

1 c. sugar 1 qt. peanuts 

Boil molasses, sugar, and butter 20 min., then add the peanuts, 
mix well, then put into buttered tins. When cold break into medium 
sized pieces. 

PENOGHE 

2 c. light brown sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
f c. milk f tsp. salt 

2 tbisp. butter | c. chopped nuts 

Boil sugar and milk until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Add 
the other ingredients, remove from fire, cool slightly, then beat until 
thick and creamy. Pour into buttered tins and when firm, cut into 
squares. Cocoanut may be added instead of nuts. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS 

2 c. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

Boil till it strings. Remove from fire, cool slightly, add Watkins' 
peppermint flavor, beat until thick, drop onto parafine paper. 

POPCORN BALLS 

1 c. molasses 1 tblsp. butter 

^ c. sugar 

Boil until the candy strings, pour over the popcorn, stirring well, 
then form into balls with the hands. This should make 1 doz. balls. 

PULLED TAFFY. No. I 

3 c. sugar | c. water 

I c. vinegar 1 tblsp. butter 

Boil together until brittle in cold water, add any flavor just before 
taking from fire, pour onto a buttered platter to cool, turning in edges 
as fast as they cool, and when cool enough to handle, pull until white 
and brittle. ^ tsp. soda and any flavor may be added. 

PULLED TAFFY. No. II 

1 c. syrup 1 large tblsp. butter, melted 

1 c. brown sugar 1 tblsp. lemon juice 

Boil together until brittle when tested in cold water, pour into 
buttered tins, turning in edges as they cool, and when cool enough to 
handle, pull until a delicate brown. 

— 104 — 



RICH FUDGE 

Add 1 c. cut marsh mallows lo fudge while still hot and being 
beaten, also cover bottom of greased tin with chopped marsh mallows 
before pouring in the fudge. 

SALTED NUTS 

Almonds, peanuts, or pecans are best salted. Blanch the al- 
monds or peanuts by pouring boiling water over them and letting them 
stand a few minutes. Place the nuts into a shallow pan into a hot oven 
until dry and warm, then add a tblsp. of melted butter or olive oil 
to the nuts, and stir frequently to brown them evenly. When nicely 
browned, sprinkle them with salt, stir thoroughly, then bake a minute 
longer, remove from oven and cool. 



SEA FOAM. No. I 

3 c. light brown sugar 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Ij c. water 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. chopped nuts 

Boil sugar and water until it strings well, then pour slowly into 
beaten whites, beating constantly, add nuts and vanilla, then beat 
until creamy. Pour onto a well buttered platter to cool, then cut into 
squares. 

SEA FOAM. No. II 

2 c. sugar 1 c. nuts 

^ c. syrup 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I c. water 1 egg white, beaten stiff 

Boil sugar, water, and syrup until a hard ball is formed in cold 
water. Then stir the beaten white, a little at a time, into the syrup, 
add nuts and vanilla, and beat until creamy. Pour onto well buttered 
platter, or make individual candies by dropping by spoonfuls onto 
the platter. 

SUGARED ALMONDS 

Boil sugar and water until it strings, then add plain almonds, or 
blanched and roasted almonds, to the syrup and stir until cold and 
dry. While stirring, cinnamon may be sprinkled over the mixture, 
adding to the flavor. 

SWEETENED POPCORN 

To every c. of sugar add | c. boiling water, boil until it strings, 
then pour over the popcorn, mixing thoroughly until coating is hard 
and dry. Instead of water red fruit juice may be used in part, this 
will make a pink popcorn. 

— 105 — 



Doughnuts and Coffee Cakes 

BERLINER PFANN-KUGHEN 

1 c. milk, scalded and cooled 6 egg-yolks 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast § pt. warm cream 
Wingold flour | c. butter, melted 

^ c. powdered sugar 1 lemon rind, grated 

J tsp. salt 

Dissolve yeast in milk, add enough flour to make a sponge. 
When light, add the sugar, yolks, well beaten, the cream, butter, 
lemon, salt, and enough more flour to make soft dough. Knead until 
it blisters; let rise. When light, cut into cakes and let rise again. 
Fry in deep fat. These also may be filled. 

BISMARCK DOUGHNUTS 

2 eggs, well beaten 2 tblsp. melted butter 
^ c. sugar 1 loaf bread dough 

Add sugar and butter to egg, beat well. Take loaf of bread 
dough just before putting into pans, add the above mixture, mix 
thoroughly and let rise. Then roll ^ in. thick, spread with jelly or 
jam, double over the dough, cut with biscuit cutter. Let rise again, 
then fry in deep boiling fat, dry on brown paper, roll in sugar. 

BUTTERMILK DOUGHNUTS 

2 eggs, beaten light 1 c. buttermilk 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

1 tblsp. thick cream | tsp. Watkins' nutmeg or cinnamon 

Wingold flour to make soft dough 

Knead dough lightly, then roll into a sheet. Cut with doughnut 
cutter, then let stand 15 min. before baking. Fry in boiling hot lard. 

CHOCOLATE DOUGHNUTS 

2 eggs, beaten light 1 c. buttermilk or sour milk 
1 c. sugar ■ 1 tsp. soda 

Ij tblsp. melted butter 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 sq. melted bitter chocolate 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. salt 4 scant c. Wingold flour 

Dip each doughnut into boiling water, after taking it out of lard. 
Set up on end on brown paper to dry. Roll in powdered sugar. 

COMFITS 

2 eggs, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
1 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 

— 106 — 



1 c. milk 2 heaping tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ tsp. salt 

Beat all together until very smooth, drop from spoon, one at a 
time, into very hot lard. Roll while hot in sugar. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS 

3 eggs, beaten light 5 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. cream 3 tsp. cream of tartar 

1 tsp. salt J tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon 

and nutmeg 

Mix and sift flour, soda, cream of tartar, salt and spices. Add 
sugar and cream to eggs, then add flour mixture. The dough should 
be stiff enough to roll. Roll I in. thick, cut, and fry in deep fat. 
Drain on brown paper. Roll in sugar. 

CRULLERS 

3 egg-yolks, well beaten | c. raisins, cut fine 

I c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. milk 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I c. walnuts, chopped fine Pinch of salt 

Cream egg- yolks and sugar, add nuts, raisins, milk and flour 
sifted with baking powder. Drop from spoon into hot lard, any size 
one wishes. 

DAINTY DOUGHNUTS 

1 tblsp. butter ^ c. milk 

f c. sugar 1| c. Wingold flour 

1 egg 1§ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

Sift flour and baking powder 3 times. Beat the egg well and add 
sugar, butter, milk, and flour and mix. Add enough more flour to 
make dough stiff enough to be handled. With Calumet baking pow- 
der the doughnuts may all be cut and placed onto a board before be- 
ginning the frying. 

DOUGHNUTS 

2 eggs, beaten separately 2| tblsp. melted butter or ^ c. cream 
1 c. sugar 3 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. milk 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Use any flavor. After cutting let stand 15 or 20 min. 

— 107 — 



GINGER DOUGHNUTS 

1 egg, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' ginger 

I c. molasses 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. sour milk 4 c. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. soda 

Mix thoroughly, roll, cut, fry in deep hot lard. 

ORANGE DOUGHNUTS 

I c. thick cream • j tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 1 orange, rind and | juice 

2 eggs, beaten light 2 c. Wingold flour 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix ingredients, beat thoroughly, then drop from spoon into hot 
lard; when cooled roll in powdered sugar mixed with grated lemon 
rind. 

PLAIN DOUGHNUTS 

3 eggs, beaten light 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 4 c. Wingold flour 

3 tblsp. melted shortening 4 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. salt Watkins' nutmeg and vanilla 

Add sugar to egg, then add shortening, salt, milk, flour mixed 
with baking powder and nutmeg, vanilla. Mix thoroughly, roll out 
J in. thick, cut, and fry in hot fat. 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS 

3 tblsp. melted lard 2 c. hot mashed potato 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

3 eggs, beaten light 5 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk Wingold flour to make stiff dough 

J tsp. salt 

Cream sugar and lard, add eggs, milk, potato, nutmeg, salt, and 
flour mixed with baking powder, enough to roll out. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast | c. lard 

1 pt. luke warm water or milk 1 c. sugar 

J tsp. salt 2 eggs, beaten light 

I tsp. Watkins nutmeg • 

Dissolve yeast in milk, mix with little flour to make soft sponge, 
let rise, then add other ingredients. Work together thoroughly and 
add flour to make soft dough. Let rise, then roll out and cut with 
doughnut cutter. Let rise again, then fry in hot lard. Roll in sugar. 

— 108 — 



RAISIN DOUGHNUTS 

4 egg yolks, beaten light 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

1 c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 c. sour milk 1 c. raisins, chopped 

1 tsp. soda 4 c. Wingold flour 

Dissolve soda in sour milk, mix raisins with part of flour. Mix 
thoroughly, then drop from spoon into boiling fat. Fry quickly, 
drain, roll in coarse white sugar. 

TRIFLES 

1 egg, beaten light 1 tblsp. sugar 

Work egg and sugar into enough Wingold flour to make a stiff 
dough. Roll as thin as a dollar, cut into any shape. Drop into hot 
lard and fry until they come to the top, turn over, remove with a 
skimmer and drain. Dust with powdered sugar. 

ALMOND RUSKS 

Take coffee cake dough made with Fleischmann's comp. yeast, 
roll thin, spread with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar, roll together 
as for jelly-roll, cut crosswise into pieces 1 in. thick. Butter a spider, 
put in 2 oz. of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise; then f c. brown 
sugar, 1 heaping tsp. butter. Place the rusks into the spider, let rise, 
then bake. When done, upset the spider onto a plate, so the almonds 
will be on top. Almonds and sugar should be sprinkled separately 
onto bottom of spider. The butter will spread itself when heated. 

BAKED ROSES 

Beat 3 eggs, add j tsp. salt, and Wingold flour enough to make a 
very stiff dough. Knead thoroughly, then roll very thin, the thinner, 
the better. Cut into circles of three sizes. Put one of each size to- 
gether, largest at bottom, smallest on top, pinch together in the cen- 
ter. Let stand J hr. Then drop into deep hot fat and fry a delicate 
brown. Drop a piece of bright jelly into the center of each rose, 
then dust with powdered sugar. 

BREAD STICKS 

1 c. milk, scalded and cooled j c. lukewarm water 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast Wingold flour to make soft sponge 

Dissolve yeast in water, add to milk, and add flour. When light 
add 

1 tblsp. sugar 2 tblsp. melted butter 

I tsp. salt 1 egg-white, beaten stiff 

Wingold flour enough to make soft dough. Knead and let rise 
till double in bulk. Pull off dough in small jMeces and knead into 
balls; cover these on a floured board. When light roll under the 
hands on the board till 6 in. long and thick as a lead pencil. Put into 
pan 1 in. apart. Let rise and bake 20 min. 

— 109 — 



BUTTER HORNS 

(German) 

1 c. butter 3 eggs, well beaten 

^ c. sugar I tsp. salt 

1 c. warm milk 1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 

4 c. Wingold flour 

Flavor with Watkins' vanilla, cinnamon, or cardamom. 

Dissolve yeast in milk. Add sugar to creamed butter, add eggs 
and flavoring and at last the yeast and flour. Set in the evening. In 
the morning roll out and cut crescents or horns with a cookie cutter. 
Let rise 2^ hrs. Bake in a slow oven. When cool, cover with frost- 
ing of powdered sugar and water. 

CHRISTMAS COFFEE CAKE 

(German) 

1 qt. milk, scalded and slightly cooled | c. warm water 

1 tblsp. lard 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 heaping tblsp. butter 1 c. sugar 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. raisins, cut fine 

2 cakes Fleischmann's comp. yeast ^ c. citron, cut fine 

1 heaping tsp. cardamom 

Add lard, butter, and salt to hot milk. Dissolve yeast in water, 
then add eggs, sugar, raisins, citron, and cardamom. If milk mixture is 
not too hot, put in the yeast, and add Wingold flour enough gradually 
to mix stiff like bread. When light, mould into loaves, and after 
rising again, bake at least 1 hr. 

CHRISTMAS STOLLEN 

5 lbs. Wingold flour j lb. Fleischmann's comp. yeast 
1 lb. butter or (f butter, I lard) 1 qt. milk 

1 lb. sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

f lb. raisins, chopped 1 lemon rind, grated 

f lb. almonds, chopped | tsp. nutmeg 
I lb. citron, chopped 

Set light sponge with 1 cup of milk taken from qt. of milk, scalded 
and cooled, some of the amount of flour and the yeast. Scald rest of 
milk and add the butter; when cool, add to the light sponge. Add the 
sugar, eggs, and part of the flour. Then the fruit, spice, and the rest 
of the flour. Beat and whip the dough with the hands. Do not 
knead. Let rise over night. This makes four Stollen. 

CINNAMON CAKE 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast ^ c. light brown sugar 

^ c. milk, scalded and cooled 2 tblsp. butter 

— 110 — 



1 tblsp. sugar 1 egg 

2 c. sifted Wingold flour j tsp. salt 

Dissolve yeast and one tblsp. sugar in the lukewarm milk. Add 
f c. flour to make sponge. Beat well, cover and let rise 45 min. in a 
moderately warm place. Add butter and sugar creamed, egg well 
beaten, about Ij c. flour, or sufficient to make a soft dough, and the 
salt. Knead lightly, place into greased bowl. Cover and let rise in a 
warm place about two hours, or until double in bulk. Roll | in. thick 
and place into well greased pan and let rise until light — about 1| hrs. 
Cut across top with sharp knife, brush with egg, sprinkle liberally 
with sugar and cinnamon. Bake 20 min. in a moderately hot oven, 

COLOCHES 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 1 egg, well beaten 
1^ c. milk, scalded and cooled j tsp. salt 

f c. melted lard 1 tblsp. sugar 

Dissolve yeast in warm milk, then make soft sponge with flour. 
When light, add the other ingredients and enough flour to make soft 
dough. Let rise. When light, cut out with biscuit cutter and 
let rise again. Then press center down with the thumb; fill in 
with any kind of jam and bake. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 heaping tblsp. butter or lard 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. milk 

2 tblsp. sugar 5 tart apples 

Sugar and Watkins' cinnamon 
Sift all dry ingredients together. Work in the shortening. 
Make a soft dough with the beaten egg and milk mixed. Roll ^ in. 
thick and put into pan. Brush the top with shortening. Core, peel, 
and slice apples; press them overlapping into the top of the dough. 
Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and dot with butter. Bake 25 
min. in moderate oven. 

FLECHTEN KUCHEN 

1 cake Fleischmann's yeast 4 c. sifted Wingold flour 
h c. milk, scalded and cooled 1 c. butter 

2 tblsp. sugar 8 eggs 

1 tsp. salt 

Dissolve yeast and 1 tblsp. sugar in lukewarm milk, add 1 c. flour 
to make sponge. Beat well. Cover and set to rise in warm place, 
free from draft, until light — about f of an hr. To the rest of the flour 
add 1 tblsp. sugar, butter softened, 4 eggs and salt. Beat well. 
Add sponge and beat again thoroughly; then the other 4 eggs, unbeat- 
en, one at a time, beating thoroughly. Cover and let rise until light 

— 111 — 



— about 4 hrs., and beat again. Chill in refrigerator over night. In 
the morning, shape by rolling under hand into long strips about 27 in. 
long and f in. thick, bring ends together, and twist like a rope. 
Form into rings, place on well buttered pans to rise. When double 
in size, glaze with white of an egg diluted with water. Bake in mod- 
erate oven 15 min. Ice while hot, with plain frosting. Sprinkle with 
almonds. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

1| cakes Fleischmann's yeast 1 c. sugar 

1 c. milk, scalded and cooled | tsp. mace 

1 tblsp. sugar 1| c. mixed fruit — citron, raisins, 

3 c. sifted Wingold flour currants in equal parts 

h c. butter j tsp. salt 

3 eggs 

Dissolve yeast and 1 tblsp. sugar in the lukewarm milk, add 1|- 
c. flour. Beat well. Cover and set aside, in a warm place, to rise 1 
hr., or until light. Add to this the butter and sugar creamed, the 
mace, the fruit which has been floured, the balance of the flour, or 
enough to make a good cake batter, the salt, and eggs well beaten. 
Beat for 10 min. Pour into well buttered molds, filling them about 
half full, cover and let rise until molds are nearly full, then bake in a 
moderate oven. If made into two cakes, they should bake 45 min.; 
one large cake should bake 1 hr. 

GUGELHOPF or FORM CAKE 

h lb. butter 1 c. milk 

I lb. sugar 1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 

5 eggs, well beaten 1 c. raisins, chopped fine 

1 lb. Wingold flour 1 lemon-rind, grated 

Dissolve yeast in ^ the milk, scalded and cooled. Cream butter 
and sugar, add eggs, beating very well all the time, then flour and ^ 
the milk, raisins, and lemon-rind. At last add the dissolved yeast 
and beat well. Grease the deep tin very well, and strew it with cut 
almonds before putting in the dough. Let rise until very light and 
bake 1 hr. in medium oven. 

KRANZ KUCHEN 

1 c. milk, scalded and cooled 1 pinch of salt 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 1 c. Wingold flour 

Set light sponge with above ingredients. 
^ c. butter I lemon-rind, grated 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

3 eggs, well beaten ^ c. raisins, cut fine 

— 112 — 



Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and lemon-rind and beat well. 
Add light sponge, raisins, and flour. Put into rather shallow pans 
and let rise 2 hrs. Then spread top with melted butter, sugar, cinna- 
mon, and chopped almonds. Bake 45 min. 

KREUZNAGH HORNS 

(German Recipe) 

4 c. Wingold flour | c. warm water 

1 Fleischmann's comp. yeast 1 c. milk, scalded and cooled 

2 tblsp. sugar h tsp. salt 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 good tblsp. butter 

Set sponge with 2 c. flour, yeast dissolved in warm water, and 
milk. When light work into a dough with rest of flour, adding melted 
butter, sugar, eggs, and salt. Let rise again. Roll out into pieces 6 
in. square and quite thin. Cut each square into 4 triangles, brush 
with melted butter, dust lightly with flour, roll up from the wide side, 
letting the point of the triangle come on top and bend around in the 
form of a crescent moon or horseshoe. Put them to rise into a greased 
pan. When ready to bake brush over with milk and bake in a hot 
oven. 



Fillings and Icings 

ALLEGRETTI FILLING 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

8 tblsp. water 4 oz. bitter chocolate 

2 egg-whites 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour on beaten whites, 
beating until thick enough to spread. Before spreading add vanilla. 
Spread on cake and cover same with melted bitter chocolate in which 
a piece of butter has been melted to keep chocolate from hardening 
while spreading. 

ALMOND CREAM FILLING 

1 c. cream 1 tsp. cornstarch, dissolved in water 

^ c. sugar I lb. almonds, blanched, and cut 

3 egg yolks, beaten light 

Beat eggs and cream, then boil with other ingredients until 
thick enough to spread. Beat thoroughly before spreading. 

APPLE FILLING 

4 large apples, grated 1 c. sugar 

1 lemon, juice and part rind 1 egg, beaten 

Cook apples, lemon, and sugar 5 min., then add egg, beat until 
cool, then spread between layers. 

— 113 — 



BLITZ TORTE FILLING 

1 c. milk, scalded 1 lemon, juice and rind 

2 egg yolks 1 tsp. cornstarch 
I c. sugar 

Boil until thick and smooth. Put between layers. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLING 

1 c. sugar ■ 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I c. Wingold flour Ij sq. chocolate 

1 tsp. salt 2 c. milk, scalded 

2 eggs, well beaten 

Blend sugar, flour, and salt thoroughly in a bowl, then mix with 
eggs. Scald milk in double boiler and add to it egg mixture, beating 
constantly until it thickens. Take from fire and add melted choco- 
late and vanilla. Spread between layers when cooled. 

COCOANUT LEMON FILLING 

1 egg, beaten 1 c. boiling water or milk 

1 c. sugar J c. cornstarch 

1 lemon, juice and rind 1 c. cocoanut 

Add sugar and lemon to egg. Dissolve cornstarch in little cold 
water, add to boiling water, then combine the two mixtures and cook 
in double boiler until thick and smooth, stirring constantly until cool. 
Then fold in f of the cocoanut, spread over cake, and sprinkle top 
with remaining cocoanut. 

CREAM FILLING 

1 egg white, beaten stiff 1 c. whipped cream 

Beat white and cream together, sweeten and flavor to taste. 

CUSTARD FILLING 

1 egg, well beaten 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 c. hot milk 

Mix first three ingredients thoroughly. Gradually add milk" 
Boil slowly until it thickens. Cool and add any flavoring. 

DATE FILLING 

1 c. dates, cut fine 2 tblsp. cold water 

1 orange, juice and rind Confectioners' sugar to si)read 

Beat well and spread between layers. 

DELICIOUS CAKE FILLING 

1 lb. raisins, chopped f lb. figs, chopped 

1 lb. almonds, cut Boiled icing 

Stir raisins, nuts, and figs into boiled icing, then spread on cake. 

— 114 — 



FIG FILLING 

I lb of figs, chopped fine ^ c. water 

1 c. sugar ^ lemon, juice and rind 

Mix ingredients in order gi\en, cook in double boiler until thick 
enough to spread. 

FRUIT MERINGUE FILLING 

1| c. mashed berries, grated 2 egg whites, not beaten 

apple, or peach 1 lemon rind, grated 

1| c. powdered sugar 

Mix all together in deep narrow dish, use rotary beater and beat 
until very stiff. 

GERMAN FILLING 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 tblsp. water 

Let come to a boil. When cool spread between layers, sprinkle 
same with finely cut almonds and spread with whipped cream. 

GERMAN FRUIT FILLING 

3 c. sugar J lb. raisins, chopped 

1 c. water | lb. candied pineapple, cut fine 

2 egg whites, beaten stiff | lb. candied cherries, cut fine 
I lb. blanched almonds, cut | lb. citron, cut fine 

Boil sugar and water until it strings, gradually pour over whites, 
beat until cold. Then add nuts and fruit and spread at once. 

LEMON FILLING 

^ c. water 2 tblsp. lemon juice 

1 tblsp. butter 2 tblsp. cornstarch 

1 grated lemon-rind 2 egg-yolks 

J c. sugar 

Heat water, sugar and lemon rind to boiling. Add butler, and 
cornstarch dissolved in little cold water. Cook in double boiler 20 
min. Add beaten yolks and cook 5 min. Remove from fire, add 
lemon juice. 

LEMON FIG FILLING 

-2- lb. figs 1 c. water 

1 c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and rind 

Chop figs and cook with other ingredients till right consistency 
to spread. 

— 115 — 



MAPLE FILLING 

2 c. maple su,2;ar | c. milk 3 tblsp. butter 

Boil until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Beat until thick 
enough to spread. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

2 c. sugar 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 

I c. water 16 marshmallows 

Boil sugar and water until it strings, gradually pour over whites 
and beat; then add the marshmallows which have been baked in a 
slow oven until soft and putTy, but not brown, beat until smooth. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM FILLING 

1 lb. marshmallows 1 c. cream, whipped 

J c. milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Melt marshmallows over hot water with the milk, cool, and then 
add to whipped cream, and flavor. 

For icing, pour the melted marshmallows, while hot, into stiffly 
beaten whites of 2 eggs, add vanilla. 

NUT FILLING 

1 lb. nuts, cut tine 1 c. cream, sweet or sour 

IJ c. sugar 

Cook 5 min. Beat until cool, then spread on cake. 

NUT AND RAISIN FILLING 

1 c. raisins 2 c. brown sugar 

J lb. pecans | tsp. cream of tartar 

2 egg whites, beaten stiff 1^ c. water 

Soak raisins and pecans in wine over night. When ready to make 
frosting, drain. Boil sugar, cream of tartar, and water until like 
strained honey. Take out 7 tblsp. and beat into whites. Boil bal- 
ance until it strings, then gradually beat into egg mixture. When 
thick enough to spread, add drained and chopped nuts and raisins. 
Delicious. 

ORANGE FILLING. No. I 

1 c. orange juice 4 tblsp. cornstarch 

Juice I lemon _ 1 egg, beaten light 

f c. sugar 1 tblsp. butter 

I tsp. salt 

Mix cornstarch with little water, add to fruit juice heated with 
half the sugar, boil about 10 min. Add egg mixed with rest of sugar 

— 116 — 



and stir until egg thickens the mixture, then add butter and salt. 
Cool and spread. 

ORANGE FILLING. No. II 

1 c. sugar I orange rind, grated 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour j c. orange juice 

1 egg, slightly beaten 1 tsp. lemon juice 

Mix sugar and flour. Add other ingredients in order given. 
Cook 10 min. in double boiler, stirring constantly. Cool before 
spreading. 

PEANUT FILLING 

1 c. sugar 1 c. sour cream 1 c. ground peanuts 

Boil all together until soft ball forms in water. Beat till cool, 
then spread. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING 

2 egg whites, unbeaten 1| c. sugar 1 grated pineapple 

Put egg, sugar, and fruit into quart measure; use rotary beater 
and beat until thick enough to spread. 

PINEAPPLE NUT FILLING 

1 c. whipped cream J c. powdered sugar 

1 egg white, beaten stiff ^ c. chopped nuts 

^ c. shredded pineapple 

Beat whipped cream and beaten white together, then add sugar, 
nuts, and pineapple. 

RAISIN FILLING 

1 egg-yolk, well beaten | c. milk 

^ c. sugar 1 c. raisins 

Add sugar to egg, then add milk and bring to a boil. Then add 
raisins and boil until soft ball forms in water. Beat until cool then 
spread on cake. 

ROXBURY FILLING 

1 c. whipped cream 1 c. chopped almonds, walnuts, 

I c. powdered sugar raisins, dates, and citron com- 

bined 

Whip cream very stiff, beat in sugar, then add fruit and nuts, 
mixing thoroughly with a fork. 

— 117 — 



SOUR CREAM NUT FILLING 

H c. sour cream 3 c. chopped mils (hickory pre- 

14 tblsp. sugar ferred) 

Boil 30 to 40 mill. To avoid burning set into dish of boiling 
water. This is excellent. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING 

I c. strawberries, mashed | c. powdered sugar 

1 egg-white, beaten stiff 1 c. thick cream, whipped 

Put whipped cream and beaten white together. With a fork 
stir in the sugar until very smooth. Just before spreading stir in the 
strawberries. Raspberries or fresh apricots may be used in this recipe. 

WALNUT CUSTARD FILLING 

1 c. milk 1 tblsp. cornstarch 

1 egg or 2 yolks 1 c. walnuts 

^ c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Scald milk, then add to it mixture of egg, sugar, cornstarch dis- 
solved in water, and walnuts. Boil and stir until it thickens, add 
vanilla. 

BAKED CHOCOLATE ICING 

1 cake sweet chocolate, grated 4 egg whites, beaten stifif 

^ c. powdered sugar 

Spread on cake and bake in oven 5 min. 

BOILED ICING 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I c. boiling water J tblsp. lemon juice 

1 egg-white. 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour syrup gradually into 
beaten white of egg; beat constantly until ready to spread. Add 
flavoring and pour over cake. 

BURNT ALMOND ICING 

2 large tblsp. soft butter Cream to spread 

2 c. powdered sugar | c. burnt almonds, chopped 

Cream butter, add sugar and cream enough to make of right con- 
sistency. Beat well, then add almonds and spread on cake. Pine- 
apple may be used instead of nuts. 

— 118 — 



CARAMEL ICING 

2 c. brown sugar I tsp. salt 

^ c. sweet cream 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Butter, size of an egg 1 c. walnuts, chopped 

Boil sugar, cream, and butter until it forms a ball in cold water. 
Take from fire and add vanilla and nuts. Beat until almost cold. 

CARAMEL NUT ICING 

1 c. sugar J c. water 

3 tsp. caramel syrup 1 large egg white, beaten stiff 

I c. pecans, cut fine 

Boil sugar, syrup, and water until it threads, pour gradually onto 
beaten white, beating vigorously until cool and thick enough to spread, 
then add nuts. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. No. I 

1 c. brown sugar 2 tblsp. butter 

I c. milk 4 sq. grated chocolate 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Mix all together and boil until thick. Beat until cool enough to 
spread. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. No. II 

1 tsp. butter 1 sq. chocolate 

1| c. sugar ^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I c. milk 

Melt butter, then add sugar, milk, and chocolate. Boil until it 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Beat until creamy, add vanilla, then 
pour over cake. 

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW ICING 

1 c. sugar 1 egg white, beaten stiff 

1 sq. chocolate I lb. marshmallows, cut fine 

J c. water 

Boil sugar, chocolate, and water until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water; beat into beaten egg; while still hot add marshmallows; then 
beat until cold and thick enough to spread. 

CHOCOLATE NUT ICING 

1^ c. brown sugar 2 sq. grated chocolate 

f c. cream ^ c. butter 

I c. nuts, chopped 

Boil sugar, cream and l)utter until thick, beat until cool, then add 
chocolate, melted over hot water, and nuts. 

— 119 — 



COCOA COFFEE ICING 

2 tblsp. butter, creamed 2 tblsp. cocoa 

1 c. confectioners' sugar 2 tblsp. hot coffee 

Mix sugar and butter; add cocoa, then hot coffee. Beat well. 

COFFEE ICING 

1 tblsp. butter 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Powdered sugar 2 tblsp. black coffee 

Add sugar to creamed butter, then add vanilla and coffee, then 
enough sugar to make smooth paste. This icing may be spread on 
wafers and served with tea. 

CREAMED BUTTER ICING 

1 c. soft butter, well creamed. Add confectioners' sugar enough 
to make of right consistency to spread. Add any flavor. 

EGG COFFEE ICING 

1 c. melted butter 1 egg yolk, beaten 

2 c. confectioners' sugar 8 tsp. hot coffee 

I tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat until smooth and thick enough to spread. Especially nice 
for spice or nut cakes. 

FRUIT ICING 

3 tblsp. hot milk ' 1 c. chopped peanuts 
Confectioners' sugar to spread 1 c. chopped raisins 

I c. shredded citron 

Beat sugar and milk until of right consistency to spread, then add 
nuts and fruit. 

FUDGE ICING 

2 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

J c. bitter chocolate Butter, size of walnut 

Boil until it forms a ball in cold water. Cool, then add a pinch 
of cream of tartar, and beat until it hardens. 

GLACE ICING 

1 c. sugar I tsp. cream of tartar 

J c. water 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar without stirring until it 
strings. Set aside to cool; when lukewarm, beat until it becomes 
white and glistening. Add vanilla. 

— 120 — 



ICE CREAM ICING 

2 tblsp. butter, creamed 2 egg whites, not beaten 

Confectioners' sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Make icing stiff enough to spread. 

JELLY ICING 

1 egg white, slightly beaten 1 glass tart jelly 

1 c. confectioners' sugar 

Beat all until light and smooth and thick enough to spread. 

JIFFY ICING 

1 ten cent cake of milk chocolate, melted over hot water. Use 
either for layer or loaf cake. This icing is always of desired softness 
and has a delicious flavor. 

LORENA'S CAKE ICING 

2 sq. bitter chocolate 1 egg 

f c. sugar 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 tblsp. butter 2 c. milk 

Melt chocolate and butter in double boiler, add beaten egg, flour 
and sugar mixed, and the milk. Boil until thick as cream. 

MERINGUE ICING 

I c. water 2 tblsp. granulated sugar 

1| c. granulated sugar ^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

3 egg whites 

Make a syrup of the first portion of sugar and the water. Boil 
until it will form a crystal rope when dropped from spoon into ice 
water. Beat two whites very stiff, then whip in the 2 tblsp. of sugar 
and immediately whip in the baking powder. When the syrup is 
ready pour slowly over the meringue, whipping up lightly. When 
stiff and cooling, drop in the extra unbeaten white and continue beat- 
ing till right consistency to spread. This is sufBcient for two layer 
cakes. 

NOUGAT ICING 

1 c. sugar J tsp. cream of tartar 

^ c. boiling water 3 egg-whites 

Pinch of salt 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. Beat 2 whites, with 
cream of tartar and salt, until very stiff; then gradually add boiling 
syrup, beating constantly. Then beat the last egg-white and fold 
into the first. Add chopped almonds and any Watkins' flavoring. 

— 121 — 



NUT ICING 

I5 c. sugar I c. milk 

1 tsp. butter j lb. chopped walnuts 

Boil sugar, butter, and milk 4 min., then beat until cool and add 
nuts. 

OPERA CARAMEL ICING 

I c. cream 2 tblsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Pinch of salt 1 c. light brown sugar 

Boil sugar and cream for 5 min., then add vanilla and salt. 
Beat till creamy. Spread on cake while warm. 

ORANGE ICING 

1 grated orange rind 1 egg-yolk 

^ orange, juice Powdered sugar 

1 tsp. Watkins' orange extract 

Allow orange juice and rind to stand 15 min., then strain. Beat 
egg-yolk, then add juice, extract, and enough sugar to spread. 

Glaze the cakes, so that the frosting will stay on, with the follow- 
ing: 1 egg-white and 1 tblsp. sugar beaten until sugar is melted. 
Spread on cake and let dry. Then cover with the frosting. 

QUICK ICING 

1 egg white, beaten stifif ^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 tblsp. cold water f c. confectioners' sugar 

Add sugar and water gradually to beaten white. Beat thoroughly, 
then add vanilla. Use more sugar if needed. 

QUICK CHOCOLATE ICING 

1 tsp. butter Confectioners' sugar to spread 

1 sq. chocolate 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 tblsp. cream 

Melt butter and chocolate over boiling water, add cream and 
enough confectioners' sugar to make of right consistency to spread. 
Beat well, add vanilla and pour onto cake. Nuts or cocoanut maybe 
added to this icing. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICING 

1| c. sugar J c. chopped raisins 

1 tblsp. cocoa or chocolate j c. broken walnuts 

^ c. milk ^ c. cocoanut 

1 tblsp. butter 

Boil until thick enough to spread. 

— 122 — 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM ICING 

1 c. sugar i tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

-5 c. boiling water ^ tblsp. lemon juice 

1 egg white 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread; pour syrup gradually 
into beaten white; beat constantly until of right consistency to spread; 
add flavoring and pour over cake. 



Fish, Eggs, and Cheese 

BAKED BLACK BASS 

Clean fish thoroughly, then rub it dry. Fill the well seasoned 
fish with slices of bacon, place into a baking dish with butter and 
fry a delicious brown in the oven, basting frequently. 

BAKED PICKEREL 

Put a clean and wiped fish into a dripping pan, spread with butter, 
season with salt and pepper, bake slowly, basting often, after first 10 
min., with butter melted in a little hot water. Heat 1 c. sweet cream 
with 2 tblsp. butter and 1 tsp. minced parsley in double boiler. Place 
the fish onto a serving dish, add the gravy to the cream, then pour over 
the fish. 

BOILED PIKE 

1 good sized pike 2 bay leaves 

3 tblsp. butter 12 black pepper kernels 

1 large onion 12 allspice kernels 

Put all ingredients into a kettle with water, add salt and the pike 
cut into 4 pieces. Boil until tender, drain, then serve with any de- 
sired sauce. See index. 

BOILED SALMON 

Wrap fish in thin muslin and boil in salted water about 15 min. 
to the lb. Serve with rich white sauce to which add 1 tblsp. chopped 
parsley and 2 hard boiled eggs, adding chopped whites to sauce, and 
garnishing top with yolks pressed thru ricer. 

BROOK TROUT 

Roll trout in flour, then fry a delicious brown in butter, sprinkle 
with salt, then serve on bed of water cress garnished with slices of 
lemon. 

CODFISH BALLS 

2 c. hot mashed potato 1 egg 

1 c. codfish 1 tsp. each butter and flour 

— 123 — 



Soak codfish in lukewarm water 1 hr., then remove skin and bones, 
pick into small pieces and cover with cold water, then bring to a boil. 
Change the water, then boil until done. Mix hot fish with hot pota- 
toes and the other ingredients. Form into flat thick cakes and fry in 
hot lard. 

FISH BALLS 

Mix equal quantities of chopped fish and potatoes, 1 egg, well 
beaten, 1 tblsp. melted butter; form into balls, roll in flour, and fry 
in deep hot lard until nicely browned. 

FISH CROQUETTES 

2 c. broken cooked fish 1 tblsp. parsley 

1 c. white sauce Lemon and onion juice to taste 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix all ingredients, add more lemon if liked, shape into croquettes, 
dip into crumbs, egg, and crumbs, fry in deep fat. 

FISH MOUSSE 

2^ lbs. chopped halibut 1 qt. whipping cream 

4 eggs, beaten separately 

Put fish through food chopper, add beaten yolks, seasoned cream, 
and lastly the beaten whites. Steam in pan in hot water on top of 
stove 1| hrs., covered as nearly as possible; then set into oven for 15 
min. to dry. Turn out onto platter and serve with cream or white 
sauce to which fresh lobster and sherry has been added. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Roll large oysters in egg and cracker crumbs twice, then fry in 
deep hot lard like doughnuts. Sprinkle with salt. 

HALIBUT BAKED 

6 slices salt pork or bacon Thick slice of halibut 

1 small onion, sliced 1 tblsp. butter 

Several bay leaves 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. cracker crumbs dampened with melted butter 

Put 3 slices pork, onion , and bay leaves into baking dish; add fish; 
cover with butter and flour mixed, then cover with cracker crumbs 
and 3 slices of pork. Bake h hr. 

HALIBUT BAKED WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

2 lb. halibut (one piece) | tblsp. sugar 

2 c. tomatoes 3 tblsp. butter 

1 c. water 3 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 slice onion | tsp. salt 

3 cloves -g- tsp. Watkins' pepper 

— 124 — 



Cook tomatoes, water, onion, cloves, and sugar 20 min.; blend 
Hour and melted butter, gradually add the hot mixture, add salt and 
pepper, cook 10 min. and strain. Put cleaned and dried fish into 
Ijaking pan, add half of the hot sauce, bake 35 min., basting often. 
Remove fish to hot platter, pour over it the remaining sauce and 
garnish with parsley. 

OYSTERS IN BLANKETS 

Roll a nice large oyster in a very thin slice of bacon, pin with a 
toothpick, fry until bacon is crisp and brown, then serve on a very 
hot dish. 

SALMON BALLS 

^ tblsp. chopped onion | tsp. paprika 

2 tblsp. chopped pepper | c. milk 

3 tblsp. butter | c. thin cream 

J c. Wingold flour If c. flaked salmon 

f tsp. salt 
Smother onion and pepper in butter 5 min. Add flour, salt, 
paprika, and stir until blended; then pour on gradually while stirring, 
milk and cream. Boil until smooth and add salmon. Spread on 
plate to cool. Shape into balls, dip into crumbs, egg, and crumbs, 
fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Serve creamed peas 
around balls, or balls around peas. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

2 c. flaked salmon 1 tsp. lemon juice 

1 c. thick white sauce Salt and pepper to taste 

Add sauce to salmon, then seasonings. Shape into croquettes, 
dip into crumbs, egg, and crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. 

SALMON LOAF 

1 can of salmon 4 tblsp. butter, melted 

4 eggs, well beaten | c. cracker or bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Mince the fish and mix thoroughly with other ingredients; form 
into loaf, steam 1 hr., then serve with white sauce mixed with can of 
peas, or the following sauce. 

1 c. sweet milk 2 tsp. tomato catsup 

1 tblsp. cornstarch Salt, pepper to taste 

1 tblsp. butter 1 egg, well beaten 

Dissolve cornstarch in little cold milk or water, add to boiling 
milk. Add butter, catsup, seasoning, and at last the egg. Boil and 
pour over the loaf which has been arranged on a platter. 

— 125 — 



SALMON TIMBALES 

1 can salmon 1 egg, well beaten 

1 c. bread crumbs Salt 

1 c. milk Parsley, chopped 

Mince the salmon, keeping the oil, add crumbs, milk, egg, 
salt and parsley. Put into timbale molds and steam 1 hr. in large 
mold, or 25 min. in small molds. 

SALMON WITH PEAS 

1 tblsp. butter 1 c. minced salmon 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 c. peas 

1 c. milk 

Make cream sauce, add salmon and peas, salt, and Watkins' 
pepper. Just before serving add j c. heavy cream. Serve hot on 
toast or crackers. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

2 lbs. cubed boiled fish 2 tblsp. butter, melted 

1 c. bread crumbs | c. blanched almonds, chopped 

Mix butter and crumbs, sprinkle crumbs into well buttered baking 
dish or ramekins, put in a layer of fish, sprinkle with almonds, add 
another layer of fish, cover with hot tomato sauce, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs on top, then bake in oven until crumbs are browned. 
If ramekins are used place them into a pan of hot water and bake 
20 min. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

To every pt. good oysters use 1| c. cracker crumbs; rinse oysters. 
Put a thin layer of crumbs into bottom of baking dish, then a layer of 
oysters and again a layer of crumbs, dot generously with butter, add 
pepper and salt, then repeat, ending with a layer of crumbs on top. 
Pour cream or milk over all, just enough to cover when pressed down. 
Bake and serve hot. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE 

1 c. broken shrimps 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. canned or boiled peas | tsp. salt 

4 tblsp. butter, melted Pinch of paprika 

1| c. scalded milk 
Blend flour and melted butter, add salt and paprika, then gradu- 
ally add the hot milk, stirring constantly until smooth and thick. 
Add shrimp and peas, mix thoroughly, then fill into patties. 

SOUR FISH 

Cook fish, cut into pieces, in boiling water and A'inegar enough to 
cover, with juice of ^ lemon, 1 tsp. sugar, 1 onion, 3 or 4 bay leaves, 
1 tblsp. each whole peppers and mustard seeds. Boil at least 5 min., 

— 126 — 



take out fish and put into a dish, pour the liquid over the fish, set 
aside to cool before putting into the ice box. 

BAKED TOMATO WITH EGG 

Take fresh, firm tomatoes and cut pulp from them with a sharp 
knife; sprinkle with salt, break an egg into each scooped tomato; 
season with salt and Watkins' pepper. Moisten bread crumbs with 
melted butter; cover tops of tomatoes with this. Bake in moderate 
oven till whites are set. 

DELICIOUS EGGS 

Chop hard boiled eggs, not too fine; put a few buttered bread 
crumbs into buttered ramequins; then put in the eggs; cover with 
well seasoned cream sauce; cover with cru<nbs and then with grated 
cheese. Place ramequins into pan of hot water and bake. 

EGGNOG 

1 egg, beaten light Wine, whiskey, or vanilla to taste 

1 large tsp. sugar 1 large c. milk or cream 

Few grains of salt 

Beat sugar, salt, and egg, then add milk or cream and the whis- 
key, beat well, then serve cold. 

EGG FILLING 

For Sandwiches 

1 tblsp. butter 1 pt. strained tomato 

1 onion, chopped fine 3 eggs, well beaten 

I lb. (or less) grated cheese Salt, Watkins' pepper and cay- 

enne to taste 
Cook onion in melted butter; add cheese and melt; then hot 
tomato; gradually add eggs, and stir until thick. Season and serve 
on crackers or as sandwiches. 

EGG TIMBALES 

Beat 4 eggs, mix with f c. milk, season with salt, pepper, and 
onion juice. Butter individual molds, fill partly with bread crumbs, 
pour in egg mixture, then bake until firm. Turn out and serve hot 
with sauce. 

FLUFFED EGGS 

Beat egg white very stiff, season with salt, put into buttered 
ramekin, put apiece of butter into center of white, place an unbroken 
yolk over the butter. Set ramekins into pan of boiling water, cover 
and cook 3 min. Serve immediately. 

HARD COOKED EGGS 

Place the eggs into a saucepan containing boiling water, let them 
stand on back of stove 45 min. 

— 127 — 



MAYONNAISE EGGS 

Cut hard boiled eggs in two lengthwise, sprinkle with salt, then 
cover with mayonnaise or cream dressing. 

MUSTARD EGGS 

Boil eggs hard, shell them, then cut in two lengthwise. Brown 
1 large tblsp. sugar in frying pan. Mi.x 1 tblsp. flour, 1 tblsp. pre- 
pared mustard, j c. vinegar, h c. cream with the browned sugar, season 
with nutmeg, cloves, and allspice, boil 15 min., then pour over the 
eggs and serve hot. 

PUFF OMELET 

4 eggs, beaten separately Salt and Watkins' pepper to season 

4 tblsp. warm water 1 tblsp. butter 

Add seasoning and water to beaten yolks. Cut and fold into the 
beaten whites, then pour into the pan in which the tblsp. of butter has 
been melted. Place pan over fire until well set around the edges. 
Then remove to oven or place under broiler until top is dry and cen- 
ter cooked. This takes but a few minutes, and care must be taken 
not to overcook, as too much heat will cause the omelet to shrink. 
Hold pan in left hand, fold over away from handle of pan and turn 
onto a warm platter. Sprinkle with parsley and serve. 

SCALLOPED EGGS 

4 eggs, hard boiled and chopped 6 tblsp. butter 

f c. chopped meat | tsp. salt 

H c. bread crumbs 1 pt. white sauce. (See index.) 

Melt butter, add crumbs, and salt. Alternate crumbs, eggs and 
meat in baking dish, and pour white sauce over all. Bake 30 min. in 
medium oven. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS 

(1) Place eggs in saucepan with cold water to cover, bring slowly 
to boiling point, then remove eggs. (2) When the water boils, draw 
pan to back of stove, put in the eggs and let stand from 8 to 10 min. 

SOLE EGGS 

Crack the entire shell of hard boiled eggs, then soak them at 
least 24 hrs. in salt water containing caraway seeds. Delicious for 
picnics. 

STUFFED EGGS 

4 hard boiled eggs j tsp. pepper 

J tsp. salt 1 tsp. vinegar 

h tsp. Watkins' mustard 1 tsp. melted butter 

^ tsp. sugar 
— 128 — 



Cut eggs in two lengthwise, remove yolks, put them thru ricer, 
then mix thoroughly with the rest of the ingredients. Form the yolk 
mixture into balls, size of original yolk. Place a ball into each half 
egg white, then serve on lettuce leaves. 

BUNNY 

2 eggs 2 tblsp. Wingolcl flour 
f c. milk f c. tomatoes 

1 tblsp. butter 1 c. chopped cheese 

I tsp. salt I tsp. mustard 

Beat eggs, add milk. Melt butter and blend with flour. Com- 
bine egg and butter mixtures and cook until creamy. Then add to- 
matoes and then the cheese and seasonings. Serve, as soon as cheese 
is melted, on wafers or bread toasted on one side. 

CHEESE AND PEANUTS 

Grind peanuts very fine. Mix with grated cream cheese, and 
with mayonnaise. Good with brown bread. 

CHEESE MOLDS 

Mix 2 c. hot mashed potato and 1 c. of grated cheese, season with 
salt and paprika. Mold into small cups, turn out onto a buttered tin, 
sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, top with a piece of butter, then 
brown in the oven and serve very hot. 

CHEESE RAMEKINS 

1 c. scalded milk 1 tblsp. butter 

1 c. bread crumbs | tsp. salt 

I lb. cheese, cut fine j tsp. mustard, if liked 

I tsp. Watkins' pepper 2 large eggs, beaten separately 

Mix first seven ingredients, add beaten yolks. Fold in the beaten 
whites, then pour into buttered ramekin dishes and bake. This may 
be baked in one large dish for 20 min. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

3 tblsp. butter ^ tsp. salt 

3 tblsp. flour J tsp. pepper 

f c. scalded milk 1 c. grated cheese 

3 eggs, beaten separately 

Blend flour and melted butter, gradually add the hot milk, stir- 
ring continually until smooth and thick, then add seasonings and 
cheese. Remove from fire, add beaten yolks, cool, then fold in the 
beaten whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake about 30 
min. Serve immediately. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of thin bread; put grated cream cheese, seasoned with 
salt and paprika, between every two slices; fry these a delicate brown 
in butter. Serve hot. 

— 129 — 



PIMIENTO CHEESE WAFERS 

Mash cream or American cheese, season with salt, and finely 
chopped pimiento, and stir with a little cream until smooth and 
creamy. Spread between wafers. 

RICE RAREBIT 

1 c. scalded milk J tsp. paprika 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour | c. grated cheese 

1 tblsp. cold water f c. boiled rice 

^ tsp. salt 1 tblsp. butter 

1 tsp. Watkins' mustard 

Thicken the scalded milk with the flour mixed with 1 tblsp. cold 
water; add seasonings, then cook until thick. Add the rice, cheese, 
and butter. When cheese is melted, serve on hot buttered toast or 
crackers. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE WAFERS 

1 lb. Roquefort cheese 1 tblsp. butter 

J lb. cream cheese ^ tsp. lemon juice 

4 tblsp. sherry wine Salt to taste 

Stir mashed cheese with the other ingredients until smooth and 
creamy, then spread between wafers. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

2 tsp. butter 2 c. bread crumbs 
^ lb. cream cheese 1 tsp. salt 

1 pt. beer | tsp. Watkins' mustard 

Melt butter, add cheese and melt, then pour in the beer. When 
quite warm, add the bread crumbs and seasoning. When well mixed 
and heated through, serve on slices of bread toasted on one side. 



Ice Creams, Frozen Dainties, 
and Drinks 

BURNT ALMOND ICE CREAM 

(For Eight) 

1 qt. cream 1 tblsp. maple flavor 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

J lb. almonds 

Blanch and roast the almonds, then put them through food-chop- 
per, using medium knife. Dissolve the sugar in part of the cream, 
over fire in a double boiler. Cool, then add remaining cream, 
flavors, and almonds. Freeze as ordinary ice cream. 

— 130 — 



BURNT COCOANUT ICE CREAM 

1 qt. cream 1 tblsp. caramel flavor 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

J lb. cocoanut 

Put cocoanut into a shallow pan and roast slowly in oven, stirring 
it often to keep from burning. Dissolve sugar in part of cream over 
fire in a double boiler. Cool, then add remaining cream, flavors, 
and cocoanut. Freeze as ordinary ice cream. 

BURNT SUGAR ICE CREAM 

^ large c. sugar 1 qt. cream 

1 pt. boiling milk 1 pt. whipped cream 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Melt I c. sugar in frying pan to a syrup, add to boiling milk, mix 
thoroughly, then remove from fire. When cold, add the plain cream, 
the whipped cream, and the vanilla, then freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

2 eggs, beaten light 2 sq. chocolate 

1 c. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. sugar 

2 c. milk 2 tblsp. hot water 

1 c. sugar 1 pt. Cream 
J tsp. salt 

Mix flour, salt and sugar, add to eggs, then add milk and cook in 
double boiler 20 min. Melt chocolate, add 2 tblsp. sugar and boiling 
water, cook until glossy, then add to egg mixture. Cool, then add 
cream, and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE NUT OR CHOCOLATE COCOANUT 

ICE CREAM 

Add 1 c. chopped walnuts or 1 c. shredded cocoanut to the above 
recipe. If cocoanut is added, add juice and rind of 1 lemon with it. 

CUSTARD ICE CREAM 

2 c. hot milk 4 eggs, beaten separately 
2 c. cream 1 tblsp. vanilla 

1 c. sugar J tsp. salt 

Beat sugar, salt and yolks light, then add whites, beat again, 
then stir into hot milk. Boil slowly and stir until smooth and thick. 
When cool, add cream and vanilla, then freeze. 

GINGER ICE CREAM. No. I 

2 c. scalded milk 1 tblsp. Watkins' vanilla 
1 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 egg, beaten light 

1 c. sugar 1 qt. cream 

— 131 — 



I tsp. salt I c. canton ginger 

3 tblsp. ginger syrup 
Mix flour, sugar, and salt, add the egg, and the milk gradually. 
Cook over hot water 20 min., stirring until smooth and thick. When 
cool, add the cream, flavoring, and ginger, then freeze. 2 tblsp. of 
wine may be added. 

GINGER ICE CREAM. No. II 

1 qt. cream 1 c. sugar 

J lb. preserved ginger 1 tblsp. lemon juice 

Put ginger through food chopper. Heat sugar, ginger, and part 
of the cream until sugar is dissolved. Cool, add remaining cream and 
lemon juice; then freeze. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM 

1 qt. cream 1 tsp. caramel 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I lb. almond macaroons 

Put macaroons through food chopper, using coarse knife. Dis- 
solve sugar in part of cream over fire in double boiler. Cool, add re- 
maining cream and flavors, and then freeze as ordinary ice cream. 
When nearly stiff, add the macaroons. Finish freezing. 

NOUGAT ICE CREAM 

Add J c. each of chopped walnuts, almonds, and filberts to plain 
or custard ice cream. Flavor with 1 tsp. vanilla and 1 tsp. almond. 

PEANUT BRITTLE ICE CREAM 

1 lb. peanut brittle 1 qt. cream, whipped 

Grind brittle very fine, add to whipped cream. If not sweet 
enough, add sugar to taste. Put into a mould, pack in ice, using more 
salt than for ordinary ice cream. Let stand from 5 to 6 hrs. 

PLAIN ICE CREAM 

1 qt. cream 1 tblsp. flavoring 

1 c. sugar J tsp. salt 

Dissolve the sugar in part of the cream in double boiler. When 
cold add remaining cream, salt, and flavoring. Mix thoroughly, then 
freeze. 

VELVET ICE CREAM 

1 qt. cream 1| c. sugar 

1 qt. milk 3 tblsp. Wingold flour 

2 eggs, well beaten Watkins' vanilla to taste 

Mix sugar and flour, add to egg, then add to 1 pt. of the milk 
scalded in double boiler. Boil until smooth and thick. When cool, 
add remainder of milk, cream, and vanilla, then freeze. 

— 132 — 



WAFER CREAM 

1 doz. vanilla wafers, crushed 1 qt. cream, whipped 

I small glass brandy 1 tsp. Watkins' almond extract 

1 qt. milk 

Pour brandy over wafers, add milk and sweeten to taste. Sweeten 
and flavor whipped cream, add milk mixture, then freeze. 

APRICOT SHERBET. No. I 

1 lb. apricots, stewed until tender 1^ c. sugar 

Put apricots through colander. Add water enough to make 4 c. 
and cook with sugar 5 min. Cool and freeze. Peaches may be used 
instead of apricots. To make a richer dessert, I c. of whipped cream 
may be added or served on top. 

APRICOT SHERBET. No. II 

1 can apricots i c. lemon juice 

1 c. sugar 2 c. whipped cream 

I c. orange juice or wine 

Press pulp through sieve, add the apricot syrup, sugar, and lemon 
and orange juice. Freeze partly, then fold in whipped cream, then 
freeze slowly to get best results. Let stand 2 hrs. Serves 12. 

COFFEE PARFAIT 

1 c. sugar 1 pt. cream, whipped 

I c. hot coffee 2 eggs, beaten separately 

Boil coffee and sugar until it strings, gradually pour over beaten 
yolks, beating constantly until cool, then pour over beaten whites, 
beating again, lastly stir in the whipped cream. Put into mold and 
pack in ice. This will serve eight persons. 

DELICIOUS MOUSSE 

1 c. sugar 1 c. chopped almonds 

^ c. boiling water 1 c. candied cherries 

3 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 tblsp. sherry wine 

1 pt, whipped cream 1 tsp. Watkins' almond 

Boil sugar and water until it threads, then pour slowly over 
whites, beating constantly until cool. Fold in the cream, then add 
nuts, cherries, wine, and almonds. Put into dish and pack in ice for 
5 hrs. Turn out onto plate, put lady fingers around the mould, scatter 
cherries and almonds on top. 

DELICIOUS SHERBET 

1 can pineapple, chopped fine 1 qt. water 

1 grated cocoanut or | lb. shredded 1| c. sugar 

Juice of 2 large oranges 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff 

Juice of 2 large lemons 

Mix in order given, adding sugar to egg-whites first. Freeze in 
ordinary freezer. 

— 133 — 



FROZEN ALMOND DESSERT 

I lb. blanched almonds, chopped 1 qt. cream 
7 egg yolks, beaten light | c. sugar 

Scald cream in double boiler, add yolks and sugar beaten creamy, 
and almonds. Boil and stir until smooth and thick, beat for 3 min., 
then freeze. When frozen, remove dasher, make a hollow in the 
center, fill this with apricot jam, cover, and let stand 2 hrs. 

FROZEN APRICOT DESSERT 

1 cit. ajiricots, mashed 6 egg yolks, beaten light 

1 c. sugar 1 pt. cream 

Beat sugar and yolks very light, add apricots, and cream. Boil 
and stir in double boiler until rather thick, then whip to a thick 
cream, cool, then pour into a mold and pack in salt and ice 3 hrs. 

FROZEN CHOCOLATE 

4 sq. chocolate, melted 3 c. scalded milk 

5 c. sugar I tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
1 c. boiling water | tsp. salt 

Add sugar, salt, and boiling water to chocolate, boil 5 min., add 
scalded milk and vanilla. When cool, freeze. Serve with plain or 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

FROZEN FRUIT PUDDING 

1 qt. milk 1 c. strawberry preserves 

4 eggs, well beaten j lb. raisins, chopped 

I c. sugar J lb. walnuts, chopped 

1 tblsp. cornstarch 1 c. whipped cream 

Beat sugar and eggs, add boiling milk, then cornstarch dissolved 
in little cold milk. Boil until smooth and thick, cool, add vanilla, 
then the fruit and nuts. Freeze as ice cream, when partly frozen, 
add whipped cream, then finish freezing slowly. If preferred, place 
into mold and pack in ice. 

LEMON ICE 

1 qt. fresh milk Juice of 4 lemons 

2 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Dissolve sugar in milk in double boiler, stirring constantly until 
sugar is dissolved. Cool, then add juice and freeze. 

MAPLE FREEZE 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 pt. cream, whipped 

1 c. maple syrup ^ tsp. salt 

Add syrup to yolks, cook and stir over hot water until smooth 
and thick. Beat until cool. Add beaten whites and whipped cream, 
then freeze. 

— 134 — 



MAPLE MOUSSE 

4 egg yolks, beaten light 1 pt. whip})ed cream 

1 large c. maple syrup Pinch of salt 

Add syrup to yolks, place onto stove and stir constantly until eggs 
thicken the syrup. Then place pan into ice water and continue beat- 
ing until light and cool. Add whipped cream, beating well, then put 
into a mould and pack in ice, using more salt than for ordinary ice 
cream. Let stand 3 or 4 hrs. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

MARSHMALLOW PARFAIT 

1 qt. cream, whipped | tsp. Watkins' almond 

1 c. blanched almonds, chopped J tsp. salt 

1 lb. marshmallows, cut Sugar to taste 

Mix thoroughly, pack in ice and salt 4 hrs. 

MILK SHERBET 

2 cjts. milk Juice of 1 lemon 

3 c. sugar 1 or 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Add sugar to whites, beat well, add lemon and milk, then freeze. 

MILK SHERBET WITHOUT EGG 

4 c. milk Juice of 3 lemons 
1| c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Mix juice and sugar, stir while adding the milk. If mixture 
curdles, it will again become smooth while freezing. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

1 can shredded pineapple Juice of 1 lemon 

2 c. sugar 1 tblsp. gelatine 
2 c. boiling water | tsp. salt 

Dissolve gelatine in 1 c. water. Mix all ingredients, cool, and 
freeze. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE 

1 pt. strawberries, crushed 2" pkg. gelatine 

1^ c. sugar ^ c. cold water 

6 egg yolks, beaten light 1 c. boiling water 

I tsp. salt 1 qt. cream, whipped 

Strain the berries, add sugar to the juice, mix until sugar is dis- 
solved. Soak gelatine in cold water for ^ hr., then add the boiling 
water and stir until it is dissolved. Add fruit syrup to yolks, beat 
well, add gelatine, then freeze partly. Add the whipped cream, fin- 
ish freezing slowly, then repack and let stand a few hrs. 

— 135 — 



THREE OF A KIND SHERBET 

3 oranges 3 c. water 

3 lemons 3 c. sugar 

3 bananas 1 egg white, beaten stiff 

Boil sugar and water, when cool, add juice of oranges and lemons. 
Freeze partly, then add sliced bananas and beaten white. Finish 
freezing. 

BOILED COFFEE 

4 large tbisp. coffee I egg white 
1 qt. boiling water 

Mix egg white and 3 tblsp. water, beat with fork, add coft'ee and 
mix thoroughly. Put prepared coffee into scalded coffee pot, add 
boiling water, then boil 5 min. Add j c. cold water, let stand 3 min. 
to settle. 

BOILED COFFEE FOR BIG AFFAIRS 

1 lb. ground coffee 2| gal. water 

2 eggs, beaten light 

Mix coffee with eggs and enough cold water to moisten and mix 
thoroughly. Put prepared coffee into large coffee pot, add boiling 
water, then boil 5 min. and settle with 1 c. cold water. This will 
amount to 50 c. of coffee. 

CHERRYADE 

1 c|t. cherries, mashed 2 tblsp. orange juice 

1 lemon, juice and rind 3 pts. water 

f lb. powdered sugar 
Add fruit, juices, and water, let stand 3 hrs., strain, then add the 
sugar and stir until dissolved. Serve ice cold. Delicious. 

DANDELION WINE 

Add 1 gal. hot water to 1 gal. washed and drained dandelion 
blossoms and let stand 24 hrs. Drain through cloth, then add 3| lbs. 
sugar, juice of 2 lemons, juice of 1 orange. Dissolve 1 cake of Fleisch- 
mann's yeast in warm water and add to mixture. Let stand in open 
jar until through fermenting. Bottle and seal. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Juice 3 lemons 1 grated pineapple 

Juice 6 oranges 1 c. fruit juice 

4 bananas, sliced 4 c. sugar 

1 Cjt. strawberries, cut, or 4 c. water 

1 c. maraschino cherries 2 qts. Apollinaris 

Boil sugar and water to a syrup, while hot, add the fruit and 
juices. When ready to serve add ice, Apollinaris, and water to make 
the punch of right strength. 

— 136 — 



GRAPE JUICE 

To each gal. of picked grapes, add 3 c. water. Cook slowly till 
juice is extracted. Strain through jelly bag, then add 1 c. sugar to 
each qt. of juice. Heat to boiling point, bottle hot, and seal. 

GRAPE JUICE AND JAM 

Pick grapes from stem. Add water, not quite enough to cover 
them, boil until soft, then strain. To every c. of juice, add ^ c. sugar. 
Boil 10 min., then bottle and seal tight. Put remaining pulp through 
sieve, then add as much sugar as pulp, and boil 10 min. for jam. 
Put into glasses and seal. 

ICED COCOA 

1 c. cocoa 2 c. boiling water 

2 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Mix cocoa and sugar thoroughly, add enough water to make a 
paste, then stir this into the boiling water and boil 6 min. Remove 
from fire, add pinch of salt, then cool. Place into ice box in glass jar. 
1 tblsp. of syrup to each glass of cold milk, or half milk and half water, 
makes a delicious and nourishing drink. 

ORANGEADE 

I c. lemon juice , 2 c. sugar 

1 c. orange juice 6 c. water 

2 oranges, sliced 
Boil sugar and water to a syrup, cool, then add juices and fruit. 
Dilute with ice water. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

1 grated pineapple 2 c. sugar 

Juice 4 lemons 4 c. water 

Boil sugar and water to a syrup, while hot add fruit and juice. 
When cold, dilute with ice water. Strain and serve. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

Juice 3 lemons 1 c. sugar 

Juice 2 oranges 2 qts. ice water 

1 pineapple, grated 2 slices pineapple 

Put juice, grated pineapple, and sugar into a bowl, let stand for 
1 hr. Strain, then add water and slices of pineapple, shredded. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP 

6 qts. l^errics 1 qt. vinegar Sugar 

Pour vinegar over 3 qts. of the berries, let stand 24 hrs., strain, 
then pour the juice over 3 more qts. of berries. Let stand 24 hrs., 
strain, then add 1 lb. of sugar to each pt. of juice. Boil 20 min. and 
bottle. 1 tblsp. of syrup to each glass of water make a delicious drink. 

— 137 — 



Meats and Sauces 

BAKED SANDWICH 

Place a slice of ham | in. thick between 2 slices of veal each weigh- 
ing about 1 lb. Tie together and bake 1 hr. in a hot oven. The ham 
will season the veal, so no other seasoning is required. 

BEEF LOAF 

2 lbs. chopped beef f c. bread crumbs 
f lb. chopped pork 2 egg yolks 

Mix thoroughly, adding salt and pepper to taste, form into solid 
loaf, place into roaster with enough water for gravy, and bake in hot 
oven for 2 hrs. If liked, slice an onion into gravy when meat is half 
done. 

BEEF LOAF WITH TOMATO 

Form a loaf of 1 lb. hamburger steak and ^ lb. chopped pork, 
seasoned with salt, paprika, and onion to taste. Place into baking 
pan and pour a can of tomato soup over the loaf, adding a little water. 
Bake at least 1 hr., basting occasionally. Just before serving, add a 
little flour thickening to tomato sauce. Garnish with parsley. Will 
serve six people. 

BEEF STEAK ROLL 

Make a dressing as for fowl, spread over the surface of a 1 lb. 
round steak, well pounded. Roll up and season the steak with salt, 
pepper, and bits of butter as you roll it. Spread 2 tblsp. butter over 
the roll. Fry and baste as you would any fowl in the oven. 

BEEF STEW 

3 lb. beef | c. each turnip and carrot, chopped 
2 c. diced potatoes I c. Wingold flour 

I onion, chopped Salt and Watkins' pepper to season 

Cut beef into small pieces. Fry ^ until very brown, add remain- 
ing meat and vegetables and simmer at least 2 hrs. Thicken with 
flour mixed with water, and season. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF 

Put beef into enough cold water to cover, bring to a boil gradually 
and cook slowly until tender, skimming grease from the top as it boils. 
Much improved by boiling cabbage with the meat, turnips and pota- 
toes may also be added. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR MEAT OR FOWL 

1 qt. broken stale bread 1 tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. butter or drippings I tsp. pepper 

— 138 — 



1 small onion, chopped | tsp. sugar 

1 egg, beaten slightly 

Soak bread in cold water, then squeeze dry. Smother onion in 
butter, add bread, mix thoroughly, then add egg and mix again, add 
seasonings. 

CHICKEN A LA KING 

2 tblsp. butter, melted 3 c. diced chicken 

1 green pepper, chopped j c. butter, creamed 

2 tblsp. flour 3 egg yolks, beaten light 
2 c. cream 

Fry pepper in butter, stir in 2 tblsp. flour, add cream, let simmer; 
add 3 c. diced white chicken meat. Place all into double boiler, add 
eggs and butter beaten together until light, add a little onion and 
lemon juice, salt and paprika to taste. 

CHICKEN IN CASSEROLE 

2 chickens cut into pieces 1 can peas 

1 lb. bacon 1 turnip 

6 potatoes 6 small white onions 

2 carrots 1 can mushrooms 

Fry bacon in hot spider; dredge chicken with flour and fry brown 
and about half done in fat after removing bacon; then remove chicken 
and brown all vegetables in the fat. Put chicken into center of casserole 
and the vegetables around it. Make gravy by adding some butter, 
flour, and hot water to the remaining bacon fat. Pour gravy, not too 
thick, over all and bake 2| hrs. Put peas on top, about ^ hr. before 
serving, garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Dress, clean, and cut the chicken at the joints into pieces ready to 
serve, place into sauce pan, cover with boiling water, and simmer for 
about 2 hrs. Take chicken from broth and place into a deep earthen- 
ware dish. Add to the broth in the sauce pan a pt. of milk; thicken 
all with 2 tblsp. flour blended with 1 tblsp. butter, season with salt, 
pepper, and onion juice to taste, lastly add 2 well beaten egg yolks. 
Pour over the chicken, cool, then place over all a cover of good rich 
dough, making an incision in the center to let the steam escape. 
Brush over with egg white, then bake in a moderate oven until the 
dough is baked. 

CHILI CON CARNE 

2 lbs. round steak | c. drippings 

2 pimientos, sliced | c. tomatoes 

2 c. rice or spaghetti, cooked 1 large onion, chopped 

Salt and Watkins' pepper to season 
Cut meat into cubes, size of an egg; roll them in flour. Put drij)- 
pings and onion into stew pan and when hot turn in the meat and 

— 139 — 



brown, then tomatoes, pimientos and cook until meat is tender. Serve 
with a border of cooked rice or spaghetti. Garnish with half slices of 
lemon and rings of pimientos around border of rice. 

CREAM CHICKEN 

(For Twelve) 

1 chicken 1 can mushrooms 

4 sweet breads 1 qt. cream, hot 

Boil chicken and sweet breads until tender. When cold, cut up 
into dice. Add 5 tblsp. flour to 4 tblsp. butter, melted, then add the 
hot cream and stir until thick and smooth, add salt and pepper to 
taste. Add chicken, sweet breads, and mushrooms to sauce and pour 
all into a baking dish with several pieces of butter on top, and bake a 
delicate brown. 

DELICIOUS BOILED HAM 

Soak ham several hrs. or over night. Wash thoroughly, trim off 
hard skin near end of bone, put into kettle, cover with cold water, 
heat to boiling point, and cook slowly until tender, about 4 hrs. Re- 
move out side skin, place into roasting pan, sprinkle with brown sugar 
and fine cracker crumbs and stick with cloves 1 in. apart. Bake 1 hr. 
in slow oven. When almost done, add another layer of brown sugar, 
reduce the heat, let roast slowly without basting for the last 15 min. 
to glaze the ham. 

DELICIOUS VEAL CUTLETS 

Use slices of veal from the leg ^ in. thick, cut these into pieces of 
right size to serve. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip into egg and 
crumbs, fry slowly in half lard and half butter until well browned. 
When all meat is fried, scrape the bottom of the pan, add extra butter 
to the scrapings, then mix with 1 large tblsp. of flour, blending thor- 
oughly. Make a stock by boiling the bones of the veal in water, add 
this boiling hot to the flour mixture in the frying pan, adding milk to 
make enough gravy to cover the meat, placed into a baking dish. 
Season with salt and pepper, then simmer in the oven for 2 or 3 hrs. or 
longer if liked. The meat will be very tender and most delicious 
when ready to serve. 

FOWL OR MEAT CROQUETTES 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 c. milk or stock 

1 heaping tblsp. butter 

Use the above to make cream sauce, seasoning with salt, Watkins' 
pepper, and celery salt. Dampen chopped fowl or meat with sauce, 
form into croquettes, let stand ^ hr. Roll in fine crumbs, then in 
beaten egg, and again in crumbs. Fry in hot fat. Serve plain or 
with any sauce. 

— 140 — 



FRIZZLED BEEF 

I lb. dried beef, cut thin 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 tblsp. hot water 1 c. milk 

1 tblsp. butter | tsp. Watkins' pepper 

Put hot water into frying pan; add beef and cook 2 min., stirring 
constantly. Add to sauce made of last four ingredients and serve on 
toast. 

GERMAN VEAL ROAST 

Take a sharp pointed knife and make incisions into a nice veal 
roast, about 2 in. apart and f in. deep. Cut small pieces of salt pork 
or bacon and put into incisions. Salt and pepper the roast, then lay 
thin slices of onion over the top. Put a good sized piece of butter 
into the pan, add a little water, and baste with same until well browned 
and done. 

HAM GRIDDLECAKES 

1 c. minced ham 2 eggs, well beaten 

2 c. bread crumbs 1 c. scalded milk 

Mix thoroughly, season with pepper. Drop from spoon onto a 
hot greased griddle. 

HAM JEMS 

Mix 2 c. chopped ham and 3 c. bread crumbs with milk. Put 
into gem tins and break an egg over each and bake until brown. 

HAM SCALLOP 

1 c. chopped ham f c. buttered bread crumbs 

If c. cream sauce 1 tblsp. melted butter 

4 hard-boiled eggs 

Mix ham and cream sauce, put | into baking dish; cover with f 
bread crumbs; add sliced eggs; then the rest of ham; cover with but- 
tered bread crumbs; add the butter; brown in medium oven. 

HASH 

Remove bones and gristle from any cooked meat, then chop. To 
each cup of meat add 2 cups chopped potatoes, salt and pepper to 
taste, then mix thoroughly. Put butter or drippings into a frying 
pan, add hash and stock or any desired moisture, cook until browned 
on bottom. Add green peppers, stewed tomato, or onion juice to 
suit the taste if liked. 

HASH-AYE 

Cut left over meat or soup meat into slices or small pieces, put 
into a stew pan with gravy and enough water to cover. Add 2 medium 

— 141 — 



onions, sliced, and cook until onions are tender. Five min. before 
taking off the lire, add enough vinegar to make it pleasantly sour. 
Thicken slightly with flour paste. To be eaten with warm potatoes. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

(Mixed Meats) 
1 lb. round steak 1 green pepper, chopped 

1 lb. veal 2 medium onions, chopped 

1 lb. pork 3 tblps. melted butter 

1 qt. boiling water 3 tblsp. stewed tomato 

Cut all meat into 1 in. squares. Brown pepper and onion in 
butter, add meat, stirring it in order to sear all sides, then add water, 
tomato and salt and paprika to taste. Cook slowly 2 hrs., then 
thicken the liquid slightly and pour over hot baking powder biscuits. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

(Mutton) 

2 lbs. mutton, cheaper cuts 1 green pepper, chopped 

2 medium onions, chopped 1 c. rich milk 

^ c. drippings Salt and Watkins' paprika 

3 medium potatoes, diced Parsley to garnish 

Melt drippings in a deep stew kettle, add onions and green pepper 
and cook 10 min. Cut meat into pieces, size of an egg and cook until 
well seared over, about 15 min. Add | c. hot water; cover and cook 
until tender over low fire; add water in small quantities as necessary. 
When meat is tender, place diced potatoes on top of meat; cover again 
until quite tender. Then add the milk, salt, and a generous season- 
ing of paprika. Garnish with minced parsley. The main point is to 
keep as little water as possible on the meat, there should be hardly 
any when the milk is added. That is the secret of the choice flavor. 
Beef or veal may be used instead of mutton. 

LEFT OVER LAMB 

Put lamb through food chopper, add a chopped green pepper, 
fry in melted butter, then mix with a rich cream sauce, season with 
salt and paprika, and serve hot on toast. 

MEAT SOUFFLE 

1 pt. milk, scalded 1 c. chopped meat 

2 tblsp. butter 2 eggs, beaten separately 

3 tblsp. Wingold flour 

Add flour to melted butter, blend well, then add hot milk and 
boil until smooth and thick. Add beaten yolks, meat, and lastly 
beaten whites. Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of chopped celery 
and onion. Bake ^ hr. 

— 142 — 



MINCED CHICKEN 

Cut slices of wheat bread 2 in. thick, one for each person to be 
served, and scoop out centers, then toast in oven. Mince cold chicken 
or veal and mix with a hot cream sauce. Fill the centers of the toast 
with the chicken cream and serve at once. A good breakfast or 
luncheon dish. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 

(Very Good) 

Take a thin round of steak; cut into small pieces about 2 by 3 
inches. Cut bacon into little strips and wrap each little piece of 
bacon in a piece of the steak. Season and fry brown in half butter 
and half lard. Cover partly with water and let simmer for 45 min. 
or 1 hr. Thicken gravy with flour or cornstarch. Serve over meat. 

PIGS IN DOUGH BLANKETS 

Make a very light baking powder biscuit dough, roll thin and cut 
into squares. Season sausage meat and wrap a little of it in each 
square of dough, pinching dough together over the meat, then bake 
a delicate brown. 

PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BACON 

^ lb. bacon, sliced thin. 2 lbs. pork tenderloin cut round and 
patted. Fry bacon and take it out. Dip tenderloin into flour, or into egg 
and cracker, and fry brown. Pour 1 c. cream over meat and cook a 
few min. Serve, garnished with bacon. Veal may be used in the 
same way, simmering a little longer. 

POTATO NESTS WITH MEAT 

Shape prepared mashed potatoes into nests, brush with slightly 
beaten egg whites, and brown in oven. Take any meat loaf mixture, 
shape to imitate little birds, bake 10 min. in oven, basting frequently. 
Serve in nests. 

PREPARED SOUP MEAT 

Half an hr. before dinner take soup meat from kettle, cut into 
pieces not too small, roll in cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt, pa- 
prika, and pepper. Place into small dripping pan, surround it with ^ 
can of tomatoes, a small sliced onion, and a minced green pepper. 
Place into hot oven, basting frequently. 

SAUERBRATEN 

6 lbs. of beef from shoulder ^ doz. cloves 

3 bay leaves | doz. allspice 

1 large onion, sliced 3 tblsp. lard 

Place beef into a jar, cover with vinegar, add onion and spices. 
Let stand 5 or 6 days. When ready to use, sear meat on both sides 

— 143 — 



in lard in iron kettle. Cover with stock or water, add a little of the 
vinegar, onion, and spices, then let simmer 2 hrs. When tender, take 
out meat, add 2 tblsp. browned flour mixed smooth with water, to 
the gravy. Let boil a few moments and serve. 

SLICE OF HAM PREPARED 

Boil a slice of ham at least 3 in. thick for 15 min., pour off water, 
then repeat same process once more. Add enough powdered sugar 
to 1 egg yolk to make a very thick paste. Remove rind from ham, 
then spread the paste over the top and stick with cloves. Bake I hr. 

SOUR TONGUE 

Boil a beef tongue until tender, cool in the liquid in which it was 
boiled, skim off the fat, save the liquid. Make a gravy of | c. butter 
browned, add ^ c. flour and stir until brown. If liked, chopped onion 
may- be browned with flour and butter. Add | c. vinegar and enough 
liquid of the tongue to make a smooth, somewhat thick gravy, then 
add ^ c. sugar, bay leaves, whole cloves and peppers to suit taste. 
When done, add tongue, sliced, and heat thoroughly. Sliced lemon 
and mushrooms may be added to gravy. 

SPANISH HAM 

1 tblsp. butter 1 c. uncooked rice 

1 onion, chopped 2 c. stock 

1 c. minced ham 2 c. strained tomato 

Fry onion and ham in butter, then add stock, tomato, and rice, 
and season with bay leaves, salt, and pepper to taste. Mix well, then 
bake slowly at least 2 hrs. Stir occasionally and add more moisture 
if needed. 

SPICED BEEF 

3 to 5 lbs. of the round of beef known as the "pot roast." Brown 
meat on all sides in 2 tblsp. butter over a hot fire. Remove meat, 
then brown 1 large tblsp. flour in the butter, add 3 pts. of boiling 
water, 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig of celery, some parsley, 1 large onion with a 
clove stuck into it, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 tblsp. salt, j tsp. pepper. 
Put the meat into this liquid and let simmer for about six hrs. Occa- 
sionally turn the meat. The success of this meat depends upon slow 
cooking. Place meat onto a hot platter with gravy strained over it, 
and serve garnished with boiled carrots and sprigs of parsley. 

TO BROIL STEAK 

Steak should be at least | in. thick. Have iron pan very hot, 
rub quickly with suet, then put in your steak, never putting fork into 
the lean meat, but always into the fat. When one side is seared, turn 
quickly, turning several times while broiling. Add salt and pepper. 
Serve on hot platter with pieces of butter. 

— 144 — 



VEAL BIRDS 

Cut 1 slice of veal 1 in. thick into small squares and pound flat. 
Chop equal amount of bacon and onion, mix and spread onto each 
piece of veal, roll up and tie, then roll in mixture of flour, pepper, and 
salt. Fry 2 slices bacon in 1 tblsp. butter, then add veal, brown on 
all sides quickly, cover with boiling water and let simmer 2 hrs. 
Thicken gravy, and add | c. cream just before serving. 

VEAL BIRDS WITH DRESSING 

Cut thin slices of veal into pieces 2| by 3 in. Make a bread 
dressing same as for any fowl, place small amount of dressing onto each 
square of veal and roll up, fasten with toothpicks. Brown birds in 
spider in 2 tblsp. of hot butter and lard, then remove to covered 
baker. Pour drippings from the spider over them, also a cream gravy 
made of 3 c. of milk, a large tblsp. butter, 1 tbl^p. flour, salt and pepper 
to taste. Place into hot oven and bake ^ hr. 

VEAL BREAST 

2 lb. veal breast 1 bunch celery, chopped 

1 onion, chopped 1 c. bread crumbs 

2 tblsp. butter Salt and Watkins' pepper to taste 

Have the breast prepared for stuffing. Smother the onion in the 
butter, add the celery, crumbs and seasoning. Mix thoroughly, then 
fill breast, closing opening by sewing sides together. 

VEAL CHOPS 

Boil 2 lbs. veal till tender, in little water and salt. When done, 
grind through food chopper. Make a thick cream gravy, season with 
salt and pepper, a little dry mustard and nutmeg. Cool, then mold 
into veal chops, roll in egg and crumbs, fry brown in butter. When 
done, add more butter to spider, add flour and the veal stock for 
gravy. Add a can of mushrooms to gravy, then pour over veal chops. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

1 c. chopped veal | tsp. celery salt 

1 tsp. lemon juice 1 c. milk 

1 tsp. chopped parsley 2 tblsp. butter 
Salt and pepper to taste 2 tblsp. cornstarch 

Scald milk, add butter, then stir in dissolved cornstarch and boil 
till thick and smooth. Pour this over the veal mixed thoroughly 
with all seasonings, mix well, then form into croquettes, roll in egg 
and crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. 

VEAL LOAF 

2 lbs. chopped veal 2 tblsp. bread crumbs 
J lb. salt pork, chopped ^ c. milk 

— 145 — 



2 eg^s, well beaten f tsp. salt 

1 tblsp. lemon juice J tsp. Wat kins' pepper 

Mix thoroughly, form into loaf, place into bread pan, spread top 
with butter. Bake 3 hrs. 

VEAL LOAF 

(Very Good) 

2 lbs. chopped veal 1| c. milk 

1 lb. chopped pork 1 tsp. each of sugar, salt and 

1 c. bread crumbs Watkins' pepper 

2 eggs, well beaten Chopped parsley to taste 

Shape into 2 loaves, put strips of bacon onto top and bottom 
of each, also 3 or 4 bay leaves on top. Baste often. 

VEAL SHORTCAKE 

1 pt. Wingold flour j c. butter 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 egg, well beaten 

Salt to taste Milk to mix soft dough 

Sift dry ingredients, work in butter, mix with egg and milk. 
Spread one half in tin; spread with melted butter, put on rest of 
dough. Bake in quick oven. Fill with creamed veal. Chicken or 
any other meat may be used instead of veal. 

VEAL SOUFFLE 

1 c. milk Watkins' pepper 

1 tblsp. butter 1 c. chopped veal 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour 2 eggs, beaten separately 
Salt 

Make cream sauce of butter, flour, and milk, stirring until smooth; 
add egg-yolks and take from fire. Add meat and fold in egg-whites. 
Put into buttered dish and bake 25 min. Any meat may be used 
instead of veal. 

VEAL WITH RICE 

2 c. chopped veal 1 egg, well beaten 

I c. bread crumbs Milk or stock to bind 

Mix the above and season with salt, Watkins' pepper, celery salt, 
onion juice or pulp, and lemon juice. Line buttered baking dish with 
boiled rice, alaout f in. deep; fill with meat; cover with rice; put on 
buttered cover; steam or bake 45 min. Turn out, serve with cream or 
tomato sauce. Any other meat may be used instead of veal. 

WILD DUCKS OR PRAIRIE CHICKENS 

Wash and clean fowl thoroughly. Cover with mild soda water 
for at least an hr. Place several strips of bacon into bottom of stew 

— 146 — 



kettle, then the fowl well seasoned with salt and pepper, then cover 
the fowl with several strips of bacon, add the least bit of water and 
simmer several hrs. During the entire process have as little water 
as possible in the kettle. This will give a better flavor and will brown 
the fowl a delicious brown. Serve with the gravy unthickened. 

BROWN SAUCE 

2 tblsp. butter h tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour lltsp. Watkins' pepper 

1 chopped onion 1 c. hot meat, iish, or vegetable stock 

Brown butter and onion, add flour and brown. Add hot liquid 
and seasonings. Let cook 5 min. Serve hot with meat, dumplings, 
or vegetables. 

CELERY SAUCE 

2 c. milk 4 tblsp. butter 
2 tblsp. chopped onion 4 tblsp. flour 



c. chopped celery 1^ tsp. salt 



Bring celery, onion, and milk to a boil in double boiler. Rub 
flour and butter together and add the hot liquid slowly. Return to 
double boiler and cook 15 min., then add the salt. 

EGG SAUCE 

6 hard boiled eggs, riced Salt and nutmeg to taste 

1 c. cream 4 tblsp. parsley, chopped fine 

1 tblsp. butter 

Mix eggs, cream, butter, salt, and nutmeg in double boiler, cook 
about 15 min. Take from fire, beat well, add parsley and pour hot 
over fish, cauliflower, asparagus, etc. 

EGG SAUCE FOR FISH 

2 c. hot milk 2 raw egg yolks, beaten 
2 tblsp. butter 1 hard boiled egg 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour 2 tsp. minced parsley 

Blend flour and butter, then stir into the hot milk, mixed with a 
pinch of soda, in double boiler. Gradually add yolks and hard boiled 
egg, minced very fine, parsley, and salt to taste. 

GAME SAUCE 

1 tblsp. Watkins' whole pepper 2 large onions 
1 tblsp. Watkins' cloves 2 carrots, diced 

1 pt. white vinegar 1 tsp. salt 

1 tblsp. sugar 
Boil all the above, pour hot over the game or meat, and let stand 
24 hrs. Sauce may be strained or used with the vegetables. 

— 147 — 



HORSERADISH SAUCE 

3 tblsp. grated horseradish J tsp. salt 

1 tblsp. vinegar | tsp. Watkins' pepper 

^ c. cream, whipped 
Mix thoroughly the first four ingredients, then add the whipped 
cream. Serve cold with cold meat or with cucumbers and tomatoes 
as a relish. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR FISH 

1 c. butter, creamed ^ tsp. salt 

3 egg yolks, beaten light | tsp. Watkins' pepper 
Juice of ^ lemon 1 c. hot water or stock 

1 small onion, whole 
Cook in double boiler until consistency of custard. Remove the 
whole onion before sauce thickens too much. Serve hot or cold. 

MEAT OR FISH SAUCE 

2 tblsp. vinegar 4 tblsp. butter, creamed 

2 tblsp. water | tsp. salt 

1 small onion f tsp. paprika 

4 egg yolks, slightly beaten 

Boil vinegar, water, and onion. Remove onion and add the hot 
liquid to the egg, boil and stir until smooth and thick. Add butter, 
a little at a time, and stir until well blended. 

MINT SAUCE FOR LAMB 

4 tblsp. chopped mint leaves 1 tblsp. olive oil 

1 tblsp. sugar ^ c. vinegar 

I tsp. salt 

Let mint and sugar mixed stand 1 hr. in covered dish; add oil 
and hot vinegar, in which the salt has been dissolved. Serve hot 
with meat. 

NEWBURG SAUCE FOR LOBSTER OR FISH 

4 to 5 egg yolks, beaten light 1 c. cream 

3 tblsp. sherry 1 c. milk 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Beat all ingredients together thoroughly, then cook in double 
boiler until smooth and thick, stirring constantly. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE 

3 tblsp. butter 1 tblsp. chopped chives 

4 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 tblsp. chopped olives 
I tsp. salt 1 tblsp. chopped pepper 

— 148 — 



1^ c. stock 1 tblsp. chopped pickle 

1 tsp. pepper 1 tblsp. capers 

2 tblsp. vinegar 
Brown the butter, add flour, mix thoroughly, then add stock, 
salt, and pepper. Boil last six ingredients together for 5 min. Add to 
sauce and simmer 20 min. 

SWEET SOUR SAUCE 

2 tblsp. butter 2 tblsp. sugar 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. vinegar 

^ tsp. salt 1 c. hot stock or vegetable liquor 

1 tsp. pepper 

Brown the butter, add flour and brown. Add seasonings, then 
hot liquid, stir until smooth and thick, add sugar and vinegar, again 
boil and beat until smooth. Serve hot with soup meat, carrots, 
string beans, etc. 

THIN WHITE SAUCE 

2 tblsp. butter, melted j tsp. salt 

1| tblsp. Wingold flour | tsp. Watkins' pepper 

1 c. hot milk 
Blend flour and butter, gradually add boiling milk, stir constantly 
until smooth and thick. Season and serve hot. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

4 tblsp. butter, melted 1 tblsp. parsley 

2 tblsp. onion ^ tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. grated carrot 1 c. stock 

4 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 c. tomato 

Cook onion, carrot, and parsley in melted butter 5 min. Strain, 
then add flour; when well blended, add stock and tomato. Simmer 
h hr. 

WHITE SAUCE. No. I 

1 pt. scalded milk | tsp. salt 

2| tblsp. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. butter 

2| tblsp. cold water 

Mix flour and cold water to smooth paste. Add more water 
until thin enough to pour gradually into hot milk. Cook until thick, 
stirring all the time. Add butter and salt. If cooked in double 
boiler, cook 20 min. 

WHITE SAUCE. No. II 

2 tblsp. butter 1 pt. hot milk 
2 tblsp. Wingold flour ^ tsp. salt 
Pinch of Watkins' pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, and mix thoroughly. Put back from fire 
and slowly add milk, stirring constantly. Boil until thick. Add 
salt and pepper. 

— 149 — 



Pastry and Pies 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PASTRY 

All ingredients must be cold. Cut shortening into flour mixture, 
using two knives. Sprinkle the water by drops over the mixture, then 
mix into a soft dough with a fork. Drop onto floured board, sprinkle 
flour over dough, press down with rolling pin, roll quickly and lightly 
into sheet | in. thick. Fold each side towards center, then lift from 
board, flour board and dough, then roll and fold again as before. Do 
this a third time and dough is ready to use. Handle all pastry as 
little and lightly as possible. 

Fruit pies have an annoying habit of leaking juice when not 
properly put together. No such difficulty will be experienced if three 
level tblsp. of Wingold flour are mixed well with the sugar that is 
used for each pie. Moisten the rim or edge of the under pastry before 
pressing the upper one closely to it. 

PASTRY 

1| c. Wingold flour ^ scant c. shortening 

I tsp. salt 4| tblsp. cold water 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Cut the shortening into the flour, 
using two knives. Add water, using a knife for mixing. Knead 
lightly into a ball. Cut in two, roll to fit pie tins. . 

PIE CRUST WITH EGGS 

1| c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

I tsp. salt ^ c. lard or butter 

1 tblsp. sugar 2 eggs, beaten light 

Mix like pie crust, using eggs instead of water. 

TART PIE CRUST 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 tblsp. sugar 
J tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 c. lard 

^ tsp. salt 1 egg white, beaten stiff 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, cut the lard into flour mixture, using 
two knives, then add a little cold water and beaten white. Mix to a 
moderately stiff dough, handling as little as possible, then roll out. 

COOKIE DOUGH FOR PIES 

2 c. Wingold flour 2 tblsp. butter, creamed 

1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 egg, beaten light 

^ c. sugar I c. milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add egg to butter, then add milk; 
combine both mixtures. Roll j in. thick. Use for open pies only, 
that is for any fresh fruit or custard. 

— 150 — 



MUERBETEIG FOR PIES OR TORTEN 

I c. butter, creamed 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 egg yolk, beaten light 1 tsp. sugar 

1 tblsp. brandy I tsp. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add yolk to butter, then add to 
flour mixture, add brandy. Press dough into pie tin or spring form 
J in. thick, with hands. Fill with fruit or any desired filling and bake. 

BANANA PIE 

1 c. boiling milk 1 tblsp. cornstarch 

1 c. sugar 2 eggs, beaten separately 

Make a custard of the above, using egg-yolks. Stir constantly 
until thick. Slice two ripe bananas into the already baked crust, 
cov.er with the custard, and frost with the meringue made of egg- 
whites and 2 tblsp. sugar. Brown in oven. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

1 c. brown sugar 3 tblsp. water 

1 c. milk 2 tblsp. cornstarch 

J tsp. salt 2 egg yolks, well beaten 

2 tblsp. butter 

Boil together sugar, milk, salt, and butter, stirring constantly. 
Thicken with cornstarch dissolved in the water, then add yolks, beat- 
ing well. Put into a baked pie crust and cover with well beaten 
whites, mixed with 2 tblsp. powdered sugar. Brown in quick oven. 

CARAMEL PIE 

2 eggs, beaten separately f c. milk 

1 c. brown sugar 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

Make caramel by putting 1 large tblsp. butter and 1 large tblsp. 
dark brown sugar into a pan over fire, stirring constantly until dark 
brown. Mix sugar and flour, add to beaten yolks, then add milk; 
add this mixture to the caramel, beating thoroughly. Pour into 
baked crust, and cover with meringue made of the whites and 2 tblsp. 
powdered sugar. Brown in oven. 

CARROT PIE 

2 eggs, beaten light § tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, 
I c. sugar cloves and nutmeg 

1 c. milk 1 c. raw grated carrots 

Mix and bake like j)um])kin pie. 

CHEESE PIE 

2 c. cottage cheese 1 lemon, juice and rind 
4 tblsp. cream § c. citron, cut fine 

— 151 — 



4 eggs, beaten separately h c. raisins 
1 c. powdered sugar 

Mix cream and cheese, press through colander, then add other 
ingredients, lastly the whites. Put into a baked pie crust, then put 
into oven to brown. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

1 c. Wingold flour Salt and Watkins' pepper to taste 

1 c. grated cheese 1 heaping tblsp. butter 

Add enough water to make a dough that will roll thin. Mix 
with fork until stifT enough to cleave from sides of bowl. Roll dough as 
thin as pie crust; cut into strips | by 5 in. Bake 10 min. Delicious 
with salads. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

5 tblsp. grated chocolate 1 c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar 2 egg yolks, beaten light 

1 tblsp Wingold flour Pinch of salt. 

Mix chocolate, sugar, flour, and salt, add to boiling water, then 
boil until it thickens. Put into baked pie crust and cover with mer- 
ingue made of the egg whites and 2 tbsp. sugar. Bake a delicate 
brown. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 sq. grated chocolate 

f c. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

Add sugar to yolks, add chocolate and salt, then fold in the 
beaten whites. Bake with one crust. When ready to serve, cover 
with whipped cream. 

COCOANUT PIE 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 c. cocoanut 

2 c. hot milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

^ c. sugar 

Line plate with paste. Prick the paste and bake. Fill with 
cocoanut mixture, sprinkle top with cocoanut, then return to oven to 
bake a delicate brown. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

1 c. cranberries, cut fine 3 level tblsp. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar 1 tblsp. butter 

Mix sugar and flour, pour over this j c. boiling water, add berries 
and butter. Pour into deep pie tin lined with a thin layer of dough; 
cover top with strips of crust, crossing each other, then bake. 

— 152 — 



CREAM PIE 

2| c. boiling milk 1 tblsp. butter 

f c. sugar Pinch of salt 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 eggs, well beaten 

Make a custard of the above, stirring constantly until thick. 
Add this to, the already baked crust. Cocoanut may be added to 
the custard, or the pie may be covered and served with whipped 
cream. 

CREAM LEMON PIE 

4 eggs, beaten separately 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1| c. sugar J tsp. salt 

2 lemons, juice and grated rind 2 c. boiling water 

Mix sugar and flour, add lemon, salt, and water; boil until thick 
andsmooth, then add beaten yolks. Put into a baked pie crust and cover 
with meringue made of beaten egg whites, pinch of salt, and ^ c. pow- 
dered sugar. Brown in oven. 

CREAM PUFFS 

1 c. boiling water 1 c. Wingold flour 

I c. butter . 4 eggs 

Put butter and water into a saucepan and place on front of range. 
As soon as the boiling point is reached, add flour all at once and stir 
constantly until mixture leaves the side of the pan in a smooth ball of 
dough. When dough is cool, add the eggs unbeaten, one at a time; 
beat until thoroughly mixed. Drop by tablespoonfuls onto buttered 
baking sheets 1^ in. apart, shaping with handle of spoon as nearly 
circular as possible. Bake in a moderate oven 30 to 35 min. When 
cool, make a cut into each, large enough to admit of Cream Filling or 
Whipped Cream, sweetened and flavored. 

CUSTARD CHERRY PIE 

Bake an ordinary cherry pie with lower crust only. When nearly 
done, take from oven and cover with following custard: 
1 egg, beaten light I c. cream 2 tblsp. sugar 

Mix thoroughly and pour over pie, return to oven and bake till 
custard is set. 

GRAPE PIE 

Stew grapes, remove skins and seeds by pressing through a ricer. 
To every c. of grape pulp, add | c. sugar; mix sugar with 3 level tblsp. 
Wingold flour. Pour into a pie tin lined with a thin layer of dough; 
cover with strips of crust and bake. 

— 153 — 



GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT 

1 pk. green tomatoes, chopped 2 tblsp. cinnamon 

I pk. apples, chopped 1 tblsp. cloves 

5 lbs. light brown sugar 1 tblsp. nutmeg 

1 c. vinegar 1 lb. raisins 

1 c. suet, chopped 1 lb. currants 

1 lb. citron 

Drain juice from chopped tomatoes; measure the pulp. Add 
same amount of water and 2 tblsp. salt. Boil 15 min. Drain, repeat 
the above process twice. Then add the remaining ingredients, boil 
10 min. and seal hot. 

JAM JUMBLES 

^ c. butter ^ c. sour milk 

1 c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 egg, well beaten Wingold flour 

I tsp. soda Raspberry jam 

Gradually add sugar to creamed butter, the egg, soda mixed 
with milk, salt, and flour to make a soft dough. Chill, roll to j in. in 
thickness, cut with a round cutter. Onto centers of half the pieces put 
the jam. Make 3 small openings into remaining halves with a thimble, 
and put pieces together. Press edges slightly, and bake in rather hot 
oven. 

LEMON PIE 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. butter 

3 tblsp. cornstarch 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

1 c. boiling water 2 egg yolks 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add to boiling water, stirring con- 
stantly until clear. Add the other ingredients, then cool. Bake the 
lower crust, then fill with mixture and cover with meringue and bake 
until delicately brown. 

LEMON SPONGE PIE 

1 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 lemon, juice and rind 
2 egg yolks I tsp. salt 

Mix all ingredients and beat thoroughly, then fold in 2 beaten 
whites. Bake in one crust. 

MINCE MEAT 

2 lbs. fresh lean beef, chopped 2 tblsp. Watkins' allspice 

1 lb. beef suet, chopped 1 tblsp. fine salt 

5 lbs. sour apples, chopped 2| lbs. brown sugar 

— 154 — 



1 lb. raisins 1 c. molasses 

2 lb. currants 1 orange, juice and rind 
I lb. citron, cut tine 1 lemon, juice and rind 

Mix all ingredients together, then moisten with boiled cider. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

1 c. cranberries, chopped 1 tblsp. Wingold flour • 

I c. raisins, chopped Salt 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. cold water 

Mix sugar, salt, and flour. Add water, vanilla, and fruit. Bake 
in two crusts. 

MOCK MINCE PIE 

2 c. raisins 1 c. cracker crumbs 

1 c. boiling water | tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon, 
1 lemon, juice and rind nutmeg, ginger, and allspice 

1 orange, juice and | rind ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 1 egg, beaten light 

Pour boiling water over raisins, let cool, then add other ingredi- 
ents. Bake between two crusts in moderate oven 1 hr. 

NUT PIE 

^ c. sugar 1 tblsp. butter 

1 large tblsp. Wingold flour 2 egg yolks, beaten light 

2 c. boiling milk 1 c. nuts, chopped 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Mix sugar and flour, add to boiling milk, add butter, then 
boil until thick and smooth, gradually add yolks, nuts and vanilla. 
Put into baked pie crust and cover with meringue made of the egg 
whites and 2 tblsp. sugar. Bake a delicate brown. 

OUR LEMON PIE 

1 c. stale sponge cake crumbs 1 c. sugar 

f c. lemon juice 3 eggs, beaten separately 

2 tblsp. butter, creamed 1 lemon rind, grated 

Mix crumbs and lemon juice. Add beaten yolks to the butter, 
then sugar, rind, and salt to taste. Add crumbs to butter mixture, 
beat well, then fold in the whites. Bake in lower crust like custard 
pie. May be covered with meringue if liked. 

PEACH PIE 

Line a deep pie tin with a thin layer of dough, fill with halves of 
peaches, hollow side uj). Into each half put 1 tsp. sugar, ^ tsp. butter, 

— 155 — 



pinch of cinnamon, then pour over and around peaches 1 c. cream 
mixed with 2 tblsp. flour and 2 tbisp. sugar. Mix sugar and flour 
and a pinch of salt before adding to cream. Bake a delicate brown. 

PIEPLANT PIE 

6 c. pieplant 3 tblsp. butter 

3 c. sugar 3 egg yolks, beaten light 

4 tblsp. Wingold flour 

Cut pieplant very fine, let stand in cold water for 20 min. Drain, 
then mix with other ingredients. Use white for meringue to cover 
pieplant. Bake in slow oven. 

PINEAPPLE AND APPLE PIE 

Line pie plate with paste, fill with sliced apples, then cover with 
mixture made of ^ c. shredded pineapple, f c. sugar, 2 tblsp. flour, 
and J tsp. salt. Mix sugar, flour, and salt thoroughly before adding 
to pineapple. Cover with upper crust and bake in medium oven 45 
min. 

POPPY SEED PIE 

6 eggs, beaten separately 1 lemon rind, grated 

1 c. ground poppy seed | c. blanched almonds, chopped 

f c. sugar 

Beat yolks, then add ingredients given, folding in whites last. 
When ready to serve, cover with whipped cream. 

PRUNE PIE 

Line a deep pie tin with a thin layer of dough. Fill half full of 
cooked, pitted, and chopped prunes. Pour over the prunes a custard 
made of 2 egg yolks, 1| c. milk, 3 tblsp. sugar, j tsp. cinnamon. 
Bake, then cover with meringue made of the egg whites and 2 tblsp. 
powdered sugar, brown in oven. Or cover with whipped cream just 
before serving 

PUMPKIN PIE. No. I 

1§ c. strained pumpkin ^ tsp. salt 

f c. brown sugar 2 eggs, beaten 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1| c. milk 

^ tsp. ginger | c. cream 

Mix ingredients in order given and bake in one crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE. No. II 

Bake pumpkin in oven, scrape out seeds and soft fibres. Then 
scrape pumpkin pulp, put through ricer, and cook until fairly dry. 

— 156 — 



1 c. pumpkin Pinch salt 

I c. brown sugar 1 egg, well beaten 

I tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon 2 c. milk 

and ginger 

Mix in order given, scald, cool, fill baked pie crust, and bake. 

RAISIN PIE 

1 c. raisins 1 c. sugar 

1 c. hot water 2 tblsp. melted butter 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Pour water over raisins, mix flour and sugar, add to butter, then 
combine both mixtures and add lemon. Mix thoroughly, then bake 
with two crusts. 

RAISIN TARTS 

1 c. raisins, chopped 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

1 c. sugar 1 egg 

Mix the above ingredients thoroughly. Make pie crust, roll and 
cut with large cookie cutter. Place filling onto one half of each, fold- 
ing over the other half. Moisten edges and press firmly together. 
Prick tops with fork, spread with cream and bake. 

RASPBERRY CURRANT PIE 

1 c. ripe currants 1 c. sugar 

2 c. raspberries 3 level tblsp. Wingold flour 

Mix sugar and flour, then mix with berries. Line pie plate with 
crust, put in the fruit, wet edges of under crust, cover with upper 
crust, pressing the edges close together. Prick the upper crust with 
fork for the escape of steam. Bake till crusts are well browned, at 
least 45 min. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

1 c. sour cream | tsp. each Watkins' cinnamon and cloves 

I c. sugar I c. chopped raisins 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour 2 eggs, beaten separately 

Mix sugar, flour, and spices, then add cream, beaten yolks, and 
raisins. Bake in one crust, then cover with meringue made of the 
egg whites and 2 tblsp. sugar. Brown in oven. 

WINDBEUTEL 

1 c. hot water 1 c. Wingold flour 

2 oz. or J c. butter j tsp. Calumet baking powder 
i tsp. salt 4 eggs 

J tsp. nutmeg 

— 157 — 



Bring water, butter, salt, and nutmeg to a boil, add flour mixed 
with baking powder and mix thoroughly. Boil till very thick and 
until dough loosens from the sides, about 5 min., stirring constantly. 
Cool, then add unbeaten eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly each 
time with the hand. Fry in hot lard, dipping spoon into lard each 
time before dropping portion of dough from spoon into the lard. 
Fry just a few at a time, since they need plenty of space to pufi' up. 
Fry to golden yellow color, then roll while still warm in powdered sugar. 

POTATO WINDBEUTEL 

Dampen boiled mashed potatoes with milk. To every cup of 
potato mixture use 2 eggs, beating them separately. Add salt and 
nutmeg to taste. Mix thoroughly, folding in beaten whites last. 
Fry in hot lard, dipping spoon into lard each time before dropping 
dough, the size of a walnut, from spoon into the lard. Fry just a 
few at a time to delicate yellow color, then roll while still warm in 
mixture of sugar and cinnamon. 



Pickles and Jams 

BEAN RELISH 

2 qts. beans 2 tsp. celery seed 

4 large onions 1 qt. cider vinegar 

1 large head cabbage 2 c. water 

1 green and 1 red pepper | tsp. tumeric 

2 c. white sugar 3 tsp. dry mustard 
I c. salt I c. Wingold flour 

Cut beans into small pieces, put onto fire with cold water and boil 
until barely tender. Chop onions, cabbage, and peppers rather fine, 
then put into the kettle with sugar, salt, celery, drained beans, vine- 
gar, and water. Boil slowly for 10 min., then add the flour, tumeric 
and mustard mixed smooth with little water, then boil all together 5 
min. Bottle and seal. 

BOILED CUCUMBERS 

3 doz. cucumbers 1 large c. sugar 

1 doz. medium onions 1 tsp. Watkins' pepper 

1 qt. vinegar 2 tsp. mustard seeds 

2 tblsp. grated horse-radish 
Peel, slice and salt cucumbers and onions separately and let 
stand over night, drain in the morning. Mix and bring to a boil the 
remaining ingredients, then add cucumbers and onions and boil until 
tender and clear. Bottle and seal. 

— 158 — 



CAULIFLOWER AND CARROTS 

1 large head cauliflower 2 qts. small carrots 

Divide cauliflower into separate flowerets, scrape carrots, then 
boil each separately until quite tender in salt water, drain, then put 
alternately into qt. jars and cover with hot syrup made of 3 c. vinegar, 
I c. water, 3 c. sugar, some cinnamon stick or mixed spices. Seal 
and let cool before putting away. 

CELERY RELISH 

3 qts. green tomatoes 2 green peppers 

3 large cabbage heads 1 red pepper 

1 qt. onions 3 stalks of celery 

Chop fine, salt, and let stand over night. Drain. Add 

3 qts. vinegar 1 large tblsp. white mustard seeds 

4 c. sugar 1 large tblsp. celery seeds 

Ih oz. tumeric 
Bring to a boil. Add 1 c. flour and the tumeric moistened with 
water. . Boil thoroughly but not too long, for then it loses its crispness. 
Can and seal. 

CHICAGO HOT 

1 pk. ripe tomatoes 4 c. cider vinegar 

2 c. chopped onions ^ c. salt 

2 c. chopped celery § c. white mustard seed 

2 c. white sugar 6 each red and green peppers 

Chop the tomatoes fine and drain 3 hrs., add the chopped peppers 
and all other ingredients, mix thoroughly, then put into jars and seal. 

CHILI SAUCE 

Chop 1 pk. ripe tomatoes, mix with 1 c. salt, let stand over night, 
then drain. Chop separately 2 c. celery, 2 onions, 3 sweet peppers 
and add to the above. Mix 3 c. light brown sugar, 3 pts. vinegar, 1 
tblsp. cinnamon, and 1 tblsp. pepper, then add chopped ingredients, 
mix thoroughly, bottle and seal. | c. horse-radish may be added to 
this rebipe if 'desired. 

CHOW CHOW 

1 pk. green tomatoes 2 qts. vinegar 

1 large head cabbage 2 c. sugar 

6 onions 1 tsp. each Watkins' cloves, all- 

2 red peppers spice, ginger, cinnamon 

Chop first 4 ingredients fine, boil 30 min. in 1 extra qt. vinegar 
mixed with 1 small c. salt, then drain, and add to vinegar, sugar, and 
spices, well mixed, and boil until tender. Put into jars and seal. 

— 159 — 



CORN RELISH 

1 qt. raw corn 3 c. vinegar 

3 c. chopped cabbage 1 c. sugar 

1 c. chopped celery 2 tblsp. salt 

2 red peppers, chopped 3 tblsp. Watkins' mustard 
1 chopped onion I tsp. tumeric 

Bring vinegar and seasonings to a boil, add the rest of the ingredi- 
ents and boil until corn is tender, bottle, and seal. 

DILL PICKLES 

Fill 2 qt. jar with pickles and 2 sprays of dill, add 2 tblsp. salt, 2 
tblsp. vinegar, 2 tblsp. sugar, fill jar with fresh water, screw up tight, 
let stand in sun until water looks milky. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

1 pk. green tomatoes 2 tblsp. each Watkins' cloves, gin- 
j pk. skinned onions ger, and cinnamon 

2 qts. cider vinegar I tsp. pepper 
2 lbs. brown sugar 1 oz. tumeric 
J lb. each black and yellow mus- 
tard seeds 

Slice tomatoes and onions, salt well, and let stand over night, 
drain. Tie spices into a bag, and put into a kettle with vinegar and 
sugar, heat to the boiling point, add the pickles and let simmer until 
transparent and tender. Bottle and seal. 

INDIA CHUTNEY 

I pk. ripe tomatoes 1 tblsp. white pepper 

4 onions 2^ lbs. brown sugar 

J pk. apples 2| lbs. sultana raisins 

1 red pepper 1 tblsp. each Watkins' ginger, 

1 tblsp. salt cloves, cinnamon,, allspice 

2 qts. vinegar 

Skin and chop tomatoes, onions, and apples. Take seeds from 
pepper and chop. Cook all ingredients together until soft, about the 
consistency of marmalade. Put into glasses and seal. If vinegar is 
very strong omit 1 c. and add 1 c. water. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

(Very good) 
1 qt. small pickles 1 qt. small white onions 

1 cjt. large pickles, cut 4 green peppers, seeded and cut 

1 qt. green tomatoes, cut | tsp. white pepper 

— 160 — 



4 stalks celery, cut I tsp. paprika 

1 cauliflower, divided 

Dressing 
1 c. Wingold flour 2 c. sugar 

3 tblsp. Watkins' mustard 3 c. vinegar 
1 tblsp. tumeric 1 c. water 

Brine 
1 c. salt 3 qts. water 

Soak all vegetables, except tomatoes, in brine 24 hrs. Soak 
tomatoes, in stronger brine. Drain vegetables. Add a fresh brine 
and cook all vegetables together until tender, but not soft — about 10 
or 15 min. Drain carefully. Cook the dressing in a double boiler | 
hr., then add to vegetables, and just bring to a boil. Seal in pt. jars 
while boiling hot. This recipe makes 6 pts. 

OIL PICKLES 

4 doz. small cucumbers h c. black mustard seed 
1 qt. vinegar | c. yellow mustard seed 

5 scant c salt 2 large tblsp. celery seed 
^ c. sugar 1 c. olive oil 

Slice cucumbers crosswise without peeling. Mix all other ingre- 
dients thoroughly, then pour over cucumbers and let stand over night. 
Put into jars and seal. 

PICKLED CHERRIES 

Pit cherries, let stand in good white vinegar 24 hrs., then weigh 
the mixture and add same amount of sugar. Stir every day until 
sugar is dissolved. Put into jars and seal. 

PICKLED CRABS 

Steam the crabs, then put them into jars and cover with following 
])oiling mixture. 2 c. vinegar, 1 c. water, 2| c. sugar, with cinnamon, 
allspice and cloves placed into little bag, one for each jar. 

PICKLED PEACHES 

1 pk. peaches 2 oz. stick cinnamon 

4 lbs. brown sugar 4 cloves in each peach 
1 cjt. vinegar 

Boil sugar, vinegar, and cinnamon together 20 min. Stick cloves 

into peeled peaches, then put them into the syrup and boil until 

easily pierced with a fork. Put peaches into jars, lill with hot syrup 
and seal. 

SPICED PEACHES OR PICKLES 

7 lbs. peaches, peeled 1 tsp. Watkins' cloves 

4 lbs. sugar 2 tsp. Watkins' allspice 

— 161 — 



1 pt. cider vinegar 2 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

I oz. ginger root | tsp. mace 

Mix and separate the spices into four parts, putting each part 
into a little muslin bag. Boil vinegar, sugar, and spices, pour boiling 
hot Over peaches in a stone jar and let stand oyer night. Drain 
juice from peaches into a kettle, boil up and again pour over peaches, 
repeating this process for nine successive mornings. May be left in 
stone jar, or placed into mason jars with boiling syrup and sealed. 

SWEET PICKLES 

Put 1 pk. washed small pickles into a crock, pour boiling water 
mixed with 1 c. salt over them and let stand over night, drain 
and put pickles into kettle, cover with cider vinegar and bring to a 
boil, then put pickles with vinegar into the crock and let stand 2 days, 
drain, put into jars and cover with following syrup. 
1 gal. cider vinegar 1 tblsp. whole cloves 

4 lbs. brown sugar 1 large stick cinnamon 

3 red peppers 

Boil all together 15 min., then pour hot over pickles and seal the 
jars. 

SWEET SLICED PICKLES 

(Very good) 

1 doz. cucumbers 1 tsp. tumeric powder 

1 doz. small onions 1 tsp. ground pepper 

1 tsp. white mustard seed 1 tsp. ginger 

1 tsp. celery seed 2 c. sugar 

1 tsp. cassia, or cinnamon buds 1 qt. vinegar 

Slice onions and cucumbers, salt and let stand an hr. or two- • 

Drain, then boil in the vinegar, sugar, and spices until tender^ 
bottle and seal. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Boil 1 pk. ripe tomatoes, 4 large onions, and f c. salt until tender, 
then rub through a sieve and boil with following ingredients. 
1 qt. vinegar | tblsp. cloves 

1 c. sugar 1 tblsp. allspice 

2 tblsp. Watkins' pepper 1 small tsp. red pepper 

Boil slowly about 2 hrs., then bottle and seal. 

WATERMELON RIND 

(Deliciousj 

Boil 1 gal. pared and sliced watermelon rind in water enough to 
nearly cover and 2 large tsp. salt until tender enough to pierce with 
silver fork. Drain in colander over night. Put into bottles and cover 
with following hot syrup. Boil 1 c. vinegar and 2 c. sugar slowly for 
about 15 min., add from 5 to 10 drops of cinnamon and clove oil. 

— 162 — 



WINONA RELISH 

1 doz. green peppers 3 c. vinegar 

1 doz. red peppers 2 c. sugar 

10 onions (Medium) 3 tblsp. salt 

Take seeds and centers from peppers and scald peppers for 10 
min. Press water out and grind peppers and onions through food 
chopper, using medium knife. Put all into kettle and cook 15 min. 
Put into Mason jars. 

CANNED GROUND CHERRIES 

3 cjts. ground cherries 1 lemon, sliced very thin 

3 c. sugar 1 c. water 

Boil until cherries are soft. Bottle and seal. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Boil 4 c. cranberries with 2 c. boiling water about 15 min .Strain, 
then add as much sugar as juice obtained and boil 10 min. Pour into 
moulds, cool, and serve. A little grated orange rind boiled with ber- 
ries, adds greatly to the flavor. 

DELICIOUS CONSERVE 

1 box currants 2 oranges 

1 box gooseberries Sugar 

Use pulp of both oranges, and the rind of one, boiled tender and 
put through food chopper. Mix, add sugar, lb. for lb., then boil 
until thick. 

FOUR FRUIT JAM 

1 qt. raspberries 1 cjt. currants 

1 qt. cherries 1 qt. gooseberries 

2 qts. sugar 
Crush all fruits, mix with the sugar, then boil 40 min. 

GERMAN APPLE BUTTER 

Pare, quarter, and core ripe apples. Put them into a preserving 
kettle with enough fresh sweet cider to cover them. Cook until clear 
and soft, then mix thoroughly with a large wooden spoon and boil 
until thick like marmalade. Place into jars and seal. No sugar is used. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM 

Pick the berries just as they begin to turn, wash and weigh them, 
to 4 lbs. of fruit add -^ c. water, boil until soft, then add 4 lbs. sugar 
and boil until clear. 

— 163 — 



GRAPE CONSERVE 

7 lbs. grapes 7 lbs. sugar 

1 lb. walnuts, chopped 1 lb. raisins, chopped 

Wash grapes, remove pulp and cook, then remove seeds by put- 
ting through sieve. Add skins to sugar and pulp, add the other in- 
gredients and cook until thick. Bottle and seal. 



GREEN TOMATO PRESERVE 

7 c. tomato pulp h lemon, sliced thin 

G c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Cut tomatoes into small pieces, boil till tender, put through 
colander, then measure 7 c. of pulp. Boil ingredients together for 2 
hrs. over slow fire. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Select juicy fruit with soft skin. Shave thin. 

2 oranges 1 grapefruit 2 lemons 

Do not use cores. Measure, and add three times as much water. 
Let stand over night; in morning boil 10 min.; again let stand over 
night. Measure, and take ecjual amount of sugar. Add j tsp. salt. 
Boil marmalade 1 hr. without sugar, then add sugar and boil until it 
jellies. Put into glasses and seal. 

ORANGE PIEPLANT JAM 

3 lbs. pieplant, cut fine 3 oranges, chop peel and pulp sep- 
3 lbs. sugar arately 

f lb. sugar 
Mix pieplant and 3 lbs. sugar and let stand over night. Mix 
orange peel and pulp with f lb. sugar and let stand over night. In 
morning cook pieplant mixture until tender, then add orange mix- 
ture and boil 30 min. or until it jellies. Put into glasses and seal. 

PEACH BUTTER 

Remove skins, cut up peaches into a preserving kettle with a 
very little water and boil slowly until soft. Put fruit through colan- 
der, to each qt. of strained fruit, add 1| lb. of sugar, boil very slowly 
stirring often for 1 hr. Put into jars and seal. 

PEACH MARMALADE 

1 qt. sliced peaches 1 orange, pulp and rind 

1 qt. sugar 1 lemon, pulp and rind 

Mix thoroughly, then boil 2 hrs. 

— 164 — 



PEAR MARMALADE 

5 qts. sliced pears ^ lemon, juice and rind 

5 c. sugar | lb. chopped almonds 

1 orange, juice and rind 

Simmer slowly several hrs. until thick. Bottle and seal. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

1 basket blue plums Juice of 3 oranges 

4 lbs. sugar 1 orange rind, grated 

Juice of 2 lemons H lb. raisins, chopped 

Mix, then cook 40 min. Almonds may be used instead of raisins. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

To 4 qts. of raspberries, add 3 cjts. of sugar. Crush berries after 
measuring, mix with sugar, boil slowly 20 min., then bottle and seal. 

RED RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JAM 

To every lb. of fruit, half berries and half currants, take f lb. 
sugar and | scant c. water. Boil fruit and water slowly for 30 min., 
add sugar then boil 20 min. 

RHUBARB CONSERVE 

2 lbs. rhubarb I lb. tigs, chopped 
^ lb. raisins, chopped ^ lb. pecans 

4 lb. sugar 1 c. water 

3 oranges, pulp and rind 

Skin and cut rhubarb into preserving kettle, add all ingredients, 
except nuts, boil h hr., then add nuts. Fill into jars and seal. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

5 lbs. gooseberries 1 tsp. each whole cloves, allspice, 
3 lbs. sugar and cinnamon 

1 large pt. cider vinegar 1 scant tblsp. salt 

Place the spices into a little cloth bag. Boil vinegar, sugar, and 
spices for 5 min. In meantime mash the berries, add them to the 
boiling mixture, and boil 15 min. Put into jars, and seal. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

To every lb. of berries use 1 lb. of sugar. Put a layer of berries 
into preserving kettle, then a layer of sugar and so on until fruit and 
sugar are used up, not using too much at one time. Bring slowly to 
the boiling point, then boil 20 min. Put into glasses and seal. 

— 165 — 



Puddings and Desserts 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CUSTARDS 

For custards, eggs should be thoroughly mixed, not beaten light, 
hot milk should be added gradually, stirring all the time. Custards 
should be boiled in a double boiler or over a slow fire; when baked in 
oven, set pudding dish into pan of water. Boiled custard is done 
when it coats the spoon, if boiled too long, it will curdle. If a cus- 
tard curdles, put into pan of cold water immediately and beat with 
Dover beater until smooth. Baked custard is done when a knife 
inserted into custard comes out clean. For a soft custard use only 
yolks of eggs. 

APPLE FLUFF 

1 large apple, peeled and grated 1 tblsp. lemon juice 
^ c. sugar 1 egg white, unbeaten 

Put all ingredients into a qt. measure, use Dover beater and beat 
until stiff and white. Serve with custard sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING 

4 tart apples, chopped fine 1 c. milk 

1 tblsp. butter, melted j tsp. salt 

f c. sugar 1 c. Wingold flour 

2 eggs 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Mix ingredients in order given, adding apples last. Mix thor- 
oughly, then fill into greased cups and bake 20 min. Serve with any 
sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING WITH BREAD CRUMBS 

2 c. soft bread crumbs | tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

2 tblsp. melted butter 1 lemon rind, grated. 

1 c. sugar 1| qts. sliced sour apples 

Mix crumbs and butter, add nutmeg and lemon to sugar. Butter 
a baking dish, put in a layer of crumbs, then apple and sugar, con- 
tinue alternating layers, having crumbs on top. If apples are not 
juicy, add | c. water, and if not tart, add juice of | lemon. Bake 
slowly. Serve with cream. 

APPLE RICE 

2 apples, sliced and cooked ^ c. sugar 

2 c. hot rice ^ c. milk 

3 eggs, beaten separately j tsp. salt 

Add yolks mixed with milk, sugar, and salt to rice. Mix thor- 
oughly, add apples, and lastly beaten whites. Bake ^ hr. in well 
greased baking dish. Serve with cream. 

— 166 — 



APPLE ROLL 

6 apples, pared, cored and 1 c, sugar 

quartered 1 tblsp. butler 

Cover apples with water and boil. When tender, lift the apples 
out. Add sugar to the water, also the butter, boil just a moment. 
Make a rich biscuit dough, roll out, put apples onto dough, and roll up 
like jelly roll. Put into pan, pour sauce from the apples over the 
roll, and bake at least 30 min. Eat warm or cold, with or without 
cream. 

APPLE SNOW 

f c. apple pulp Powdered sugar 

3 egg-whites, beaten very stiff 

Pare, quarter, and core 4 apples. Steam until soft and put 
through colander. Measure f c. of the pulp; sweeten to. taste and 
add gradually to beaten whites. Add 1 tblsp. lemon juice. Serve 
with custard sauce. (See index.) 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

f c. pearl tapioca 8 apples, pared and cored 

6 c. cold water | c. sugar 

I tsp. salt 1 lemon, juice and rind 

Soak tapioca over night in 6 c. cold water in double boiler. In 
morning boil until transparent, add salt, sugar and rind. Arrange 
apples in baking dish, fill cavities with sugar and lemon juice, cover 
with tapioca and bake until tender, adding 1 tsp. butter before tak- 
ing from oven. Serve with sugar and cream. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Make baking powder biscuit dough, cut out as for biscuits. Put 
a quarter of an apple into each biscuit, fold over carefully. Place 
biscuits into baking pan. Pour over them, before baking, a sauce made 
of 2 tblsp. butter, 1 c. sugar, 1 tblsp. Wingold flour, 1 pt. boiling 
water, j tsp. Watkins' nutmeg. Bake in quick oven about 20 min. 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD 

^ c. sugar i tsp. salt 

1 qt. boiling milk 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

4 eggs, beaten light 

Put sugar into omelet pan over fire, stir constantly until melted 
to a syrup, then add gradually to hot milk, mix thoroughly, then add 
to eggs, acid salt and vanilla. Bake as cup custard. 

— 167 — 



BAKED COCOANUT PUDDING 

5 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 fresh cocoanut, grated 

I c. sugar 

Beat sugar and wliites 10 min. Put a layer of the cocoanut into 
buttered pudding dish, then a layer of beaten egg, then repeat, having 
a layer of cocoanut on top. Set pudding dish into a pan of hot water 
and bake h hr. Serve with whipped cream. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

3 tblsp. melted butter 1 c. scalded milk 

J c. Wingold flour 4 eggs, beaten separately 

J c. sugar 

Add flour to butter, gradually add milk, stirring constantly until 
smooth and thick. Add sugar to yolks, then combine the two mix- 
tures, cool, then fold in beaten whites. Bake in greased pudding dish 

1 hr. in moderate oven. Serve at once with cream sauce. 

BANANA DESSERT 

2 c. whipped cream 1 doz. lady lingers 
J c. powdered sugar ^ doz. bananas 

h tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Line glass bowl with split lady fingers, cover bottom with a layer 
of sliced bananas, then a layer of whipped cream, mixed with sugar 
and vanilla, and so on until dish is filled. Have cream for top layer; 
garnish with cherries and chopped nuts. Place onto ice for 1 hr. and 
serve cold. 

BIRTHDAY PUDDING 

Arrange in layers in baking dish 1 doz. macaroons, 1 doz. lady 
fingers, 1 doz. cocoanut cakes. Cover with custard seasoned with 
2 tblsp. wine, then sprinkle with cocoanut. Bake in oven until well 
set and brown. 

BOILED COCOANUT PUDDING 

2 c. milk I c. cocoanut 

2 tblsp. cornstarch 4 egg whites, beaten stiff 

1 scant c. sugar j tsp. salt 

Boil the milk, add cornstarch dissolved in little cold water, sugar 
and salt, stir until smooth, fold in whites, then add cocoanut. Boil 
a moment longer, then beat until cold. Serve with custard sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING 

2 c. bread crumbs 2 eggs, beaten light 
1 qt. scalded milk j c. melted butter 

— 168 — 



^ c. sugar I tsp. salt 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Soak crumbs in milk, cool, add the other ingredients, bake 1 hr. 
in greased pudding dish in slow oven. Serve with any desired sauce. 

BROWN SUGAR DESSERT 

2 tblsp. cornstarch 2 c. brown sugar 
^ c. cold water 2 c. water 

Dissolve cornstarch in h c. of water, add sugar, then 2 c. water. 
Boil till thick. When cool, add | c. almonds, blanched and chopped. 
Serve cold in sherbet glasses with whipped cream. 

BURNT SUGAR CUSTARD 

4 c. scalded milk | tsp. salt 

5 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. sugar 

Melt sugar to light brown syrup in saucepan over fire. Add hot 
milk and cook until free from lumps. Pour this gradually into beaten 
eggs. Add salt and flavoring. Pour into buttered custard cups. 
Set these into pan containing hot water. Bake in moderate oven 
until custard is firm. If a clean cut can be made with a knife, the 
custard is done. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

3 eggs, beaten light 1| c. cream 

3 tblsp. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat sugar and eggs very light, add cream, beat again until 
smooth, add vanilla. Melt extra sugar in a spider to a syrup. Put 
1 tblsp. syrup into bottom of each of six buttered cups, add of the 
above mixture to each cup. Bake 15 min. in pan with hot water. 

CARAMEL RICE PUDDING 

1 c. rice 2 eggs, beaten 

() c. milk 1 c. sugar 

1 tsp. salt I orange rind, grated 

Cook rice in milk in double boiler 2 hrs., then add salt, eggs, and 
orange rind. Melt sugar to a golden brown liquid, pour into a hot 
buttered pudding dish, coating the whole inner surface. Add rice, 
cover and cook in oven in pan of hot water 20 min. Let stand 5 
min. after removing from oven, turn on serving dish and serve with 
cream or custard. 

CARROT PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS 

1 cit. cooked carrots, mashed I lb. citron, cut fine 

h lb. suet, chopped fine 2 c. Wingold flour 

— 169 — 



§ c. sugar 1^ tsp. salt 

; lb. currants 1 tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 

f lb. raisins ^ tsp. each Watkins' cloves and 

nutmeg 

Dredge fruit with flour. Mix and sift flour, salt, and spices. 
Mix in order given, adding fruit last. Steam 3| hrs. in a buttered 
mold. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE 

2 pkg. gelatin 2 c. boiling milk 

1 c. water 1 c. sugar 

1 c. grated chocolate 3 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Soak gelatin in water 1 hr., then add to boiling milk, add choco- 
late and sugar, and boil about 10 min., cool, then fold in the beaten 
whites, mixing thoroughly. Serve cold with custard or cream sauce. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

2 c. bread crumbs f c. sugar 
4 c. scalded milk J tsp. salt 

2 sq. chocolate, melted 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 eggs, beaten light 

Soak crumbs in milk for | hr., then add sugar, chocolate, salt, 
vanilla and eggs. Bake in greased pudding dish. Serve with whipped 
cream or hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROON PUDDING 

1 tblsp. granulated gelatin 2 c. cream, whipped 

2 tblsp. cold water ^ doz. macaroons, crushed 

4 tblsp. boiling water j lb. sweet chocolate, grated 

Soak gelatin in cold water, add boiling water, stirring constantly 
until dissolved, cool, then add to whipped cream. Into one half of 
the whipped cream mixture stir the chocolate, into the other half the 
macaroons. Place into a dish alternating layers, place onto ice until 
hard. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

(For Eight) 

1 c. cornstarch j cake bitter chocolate 

2 c. milk 1 scant c. sugar 

Dissolve cornstarch in bit of cold milk; add 2 c. of milk and choco- 
late shaved fine, also sugar. Stir constantly and boil until it thickens; 
take from fire and stir until perfectly smooth. Serve in sherbet cups 
with cream and wafers. 

— 170 — 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING WITH EGGS 

3 c. milk 3 large tblsp. cornstarch 

2 eggs, beaten light 2 sq. chocolate, grated 
1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler to boiling point. Beat sugar and 
eggs, then add cornstarch dissolved in little water, and chocolate. 
Add this mixture to boiling milk, boil until thick, then beat well. 
Flavor with vanilla. Serve with cream while still warm. 

CHOCOLATE TAPIOCA 

I c. minute tapioca 1 sq. chocolate, melted 

3 c. milk, scalded | tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar I tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Soak tapioca over night, add to scalded milk in double boiler, 
add sugar, salt, and chocolate. Cook and stir 30 min. Take from 
fire, add vanilla, and pour into a mold. Serve cold with whipped 
cream or a custard sauce. 

COCOANUT BREAD PUDDING 

2 tblsp. melted butter 1 c. bread crumbs 

4 tblsp. sugar 1 c. cocoanut 
2 eggs, beaten light 1 qt. milk 

^ lemon rind, grated j tsp. salt 

Soak cocoanut in half the milk, boiling hot, for 1 hr. Soak 
crumbs in other half of milk, combine the two, then add other ingre- 
dients, beat well, then place into pudding dish and bake in moderate 
oven until well set and brown. 

COCOANUT CARAMEL PUDDING 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' almond extract 

2 c. boiling milk j tsp. salt 

3 eggs, beaten light 1 c. cocoanut 

1 tsp. Wingold flour 

Put ^ of the sugar into an omelet pan over fire, stir constantly 
until melted to a syrup, then add to boiling milk. Mix rest of sugar 
and flour, add to eggs, then combine both mixtures, add salt, cocoa- 
nut, and almond. Set pudding dish into pan of hot water until well 
set. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

2 c. milk, scalded 3 tblsp. sugar 

4 tblsp. cornstarch 3 egg whites, beaten stifi" 
I tsp. salt ^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

— 171 — 



Mix cornstarch, salt, and sugar, add to milk, stirring constantly 
until smooth and thick; cook over hot water h hr. Add whites, beat 
well, flavor, and mold. Chill and serve with chocolate or any desired 
sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING WITH RASPBERRY JAM 

I c. butter, creamed 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 egg, beaten light I tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

1 c. milk 

Bake in muffin tins. Slit top of each cake and fill with red rasp- 
berry jam. Serve with whipped cream. 

CREAM CUPS 

Bake sponge cake in gem pans. Hollow out the centers and fill 
with whipped cream, mixed with beaten egg white, sweetened and 
flavored. Decorate with candied cherries, grated cocoanut, or grated 
chocolate. Cups may also be filled with cocoanut custard, covered 
with meringue and browned in oven. 

CUP CUSTARD 

1 qt. milk | tsp. salt 

4 eggs, beaten | tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

^ c. sugar 

Beat sugar and yolks, add salt and gradually the hot milk. When 
sugar has dissolved, pour into buttered cups and sprinkle top with 
nutmeg. Set cups into pan of hot water and bake in moderate oven 
until a knife inserted into custard comes out clean. 

CUSTARD APPLES 

Pare and core apples enough to cover the bottom of a deep bak- 
ing dish, fill the centers with butter, sugar, and nutmeg; add a little 
water and place into oven. When partly baked pour over a rich cus- 
tard and finish baking. 

DATE WHIP 

1 c. chopped dates 3 egg whites, beaten stiff 

I c. boiling water | c. sugar 

1 tblsp. lemon juice I tsp. salt 

Cook dates in boiling water until tender, press through colander. 
Add sugar to whites, beat 5 min., add lemon and salt. Carefully 
fold in date pulp, place into buttered baking dish or individual cups and 
bake a delicate brown. Serve with whipped cream or custard sauce. 

— 172 — 



DELICIOUS BREAD PUDDING 

1 large tblsp. butter 1 lemon rind, grated 

I c. sugar 2 c. bread crumbs 

3 eggs, beaten separately 2 c. milk 

Mix ingredients in order given, using yolks of eggs only. Place 
into greased pudding dish and bake. When done, spread top with a 
layer of jelly or jam, then cover with whites mixed with 3 tblsp. sugar. 
Brown in oven, then serve with whipped cream. 

DELICIOUS FIG DESSERT 

I pkg. gelatin 1 c. maple syrup 

^ c. cold water 1 pt. whipped cream 

1 c. figs, chopped fine and | c. nuts, chopped fine 

stewed Pinch of salt 

Soak gelatin in the cold water, set dish into hot water to dissolve 
gelatin. Mix stewed figs, gelatin, syrup, nuts, and salt. When mix- 
ture begins to harden, add whipped cream. Chill and serve in sher- 
bet glasses. 

DELICIOUS WINE DESSERT 

1 c. white wine 1 lb. macaroons 
6 eggs, beaten separately Sugar to taste 

2 c. raspberries I tsp. salt 

Heat the wine with salt and sugar to taste, gradually pour over 
beaten yolks, boil a few moments, then cool. Mix raspberries with 
sugar, then arrange in a baking dish a layer of macaroons, raspberries, 
and wine sauce alternately until dish is full. Cover with meringue 
made of whites and powdered sugar. Bake a delicate brown in 
oven. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1 lb. seeded raisins 1 orange-rind, grated 

1 lb. currants 8 eggs, beaten light 

1 lb. citron, cut fine ^ pt. milk 

1 lb. beef suet, put through 2 tblsp. cinnamon 

chopper 1 tblsp. ginger 

1 lb. bread crumbs 1 nutmeg, grated 

I lb. flour I tsp. salt 

f lb. candied lemon 4 tblsp. of wine or brandy 

Put into granite or porcelain dish and steam 6 hrs. This will 
keep like fruit cake. Steam again when wanted and serve hot with 
any favorite sauce. 

— 173 — 



FAVORITE PUDDING 



eggs, beaten light 
c. powdered sugar 



1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
1 c. broken nuts 
1 c. chopped dates 

add flour mixed with baking powder, 
nuts and dates. Beat thoroughly then pour into buttered baking 
dish, set this into pan of boiling water, and bake 30 min. Let cool in 
water, chill, and serve with whipped cream. 



1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

Beat sugar and eggs 5 min. 



FIG PUDDING 



1 c. suet, chopped fine 

I c. sugar 

3 eggs 

1 c. molasses 

1 c. sour milk 

Steam 4 hrs. Serve with 
recipe will serve six people. 



1 tsp. soda 

1 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. bread crumbs 
2 c. chopped figs 

hard or foamy sauce. Half of this 



FLOATING ISLAND 

2 c. milk, scalded | tsp. cornstarch 

4 eggs, beaten separately J tsp. salt 

4 tblsp. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins vanilla 

Mix sugar, cornstarch, and salt, add to yolks. Add 2 tsp. sugar 
to whites, drop from spoon onto hot milk, cook until firm, then lift 
out onto a plate. Gradually add the boiling milk to yolk mixture. 
Boil over water, stirring constantly until thick and smooth; add 
vanilla. Serve cold with the cooked whites on top, placing bits of 
jelly onto the whites. 

FLOATING ISLANDS WITH CHOCOLATE CREAM 



3 eggs, beaten separately 
3 c. boiling milk 



6 tblsp. sugar 
1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
I tablet chocolate, grated | tsp. salt 

Cook whites by tablespoonfuls in the boiling milk. When done, 
place them onto a plate. Add the chocolate to the milk, boil several 
min., take from fire and add beaten yolks. Place again over slow 
fire, stir, but do not boil. Add sugar and vanilla, then pour into a 
shallow dish and slip the islands onto the cream. Serve cold. 



FROZEN PUDDING 



1-2" qts. cream 

I c. powdered sugar 

^ lb. candied cherries 



1 c. walnuts or almonds 
^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla 



174 



Have dishes and ingredients cold. Beat cream very stiff, add 
sugar, vanilla, and cherries rolled in powdered sugar and cut fine, 
also nuts cut fine. Put into 2 qt. mold, pack in ice 4 hrs. before 
serving. 

FRUIT BALLS 

2 oz. beef suet, chopped 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Bread crumbs ^ c. currants 

J c. sugar ^ c. chopped raisins 

Measure the chopped suet, mix with twice the quantity of bread 
crumbs, add sugar, eggs, and fruit. Mix thoroughly, then form into 
balls, size of walnuts, drop these into a kettle of boiling water and boil 
until they come to the surface. Take from water, then serve with a 
rich sauce. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA PUDDING 

1 c. tapioca 3 bananas 

1 c. brown sugar 2 oranges 

1 tsp. salt ^ c. walnuts 

Soak tapioca over night. In morning add boiling water and boil 
until clear and rather thick. While hot, add sugar, salt, fruits and 
nuts, cut fine. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

GINGER CREAM 

2 tblsp. gelatin 1 c. candied ginger, chopped 
J c. cold water 2 tblsp. sherry wine 

I c. boiling water § c. sugar 

2 c. cream, whipped 

Soak gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add ginger, 
wine, and sugar. When mixture begins to thicken, fold in whipped 
cream. Mold, chill, and serve with whipped cream, garnished with 
fruit. 

GINGER RICE 

1 c. cooked rice | c. finely chopped ginger 

1 c. whipped cream Sugar to taste 

Serve in sherbet glasses. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

J c. butter 1| c. graham flour 

I c. molasses ^ tsp. soda 

I c. milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 egg 1 c. raisins, seeded and cut into pieces 

— 175 — 



Melt the butter, add the molasses, milk and egg well beaten. 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, and add the raisins, combine with 
liquid ingredients, turn into a buttered mold, cover, and steam 2| hrs. 
Dates or figs may be used in place of raisins. 

HOME PUDDING 

I c. chopped apples 5 c. buttermilk or sour milk 

^ c. currants and raisins ^ c. sugar 

1 c. bread crumbs 1 egg, well beaten 

J tsp. salt I tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

Steam 1 hr. and serve with cream or any desired sauce. 

JUNKET 

^ tablet of junket 2 tblsp. sugar 

1 pt. milk § tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Dissolve junket in small tblsp. of water. Add sugar, vanilla, 
and dissolved tablet to luke warm milk. Pour into 4 sherbet cups.; 
let stand in warm place until it sets, then remove to ice bo.x to chill. 
Any flavor may be used. 

LEMON PUDDING 

3 eggs, beaten separately 1 lemon, juice and rind 

1 c. sugar 

Add sugar and lemon to yolks, beat thoroughly. Cook in double 
boiler until smooth and thick, then fold in whites. Pour into sherbet 
cups, serve with whipped cream. 

LEMON BREAD PUDDING 

8 slices of bread 1 c. sugar 

2 lemons, juice and rind 1 tblsp. flour 

2 eggs, beaten light 1| c. water 

Cook all ingredients, except bread, as thick as cream. Trim off 
edges of bread with scissors, then spread the boiled sauce on each 
piece of bread, piling the bread, one piece on top of the other into deep 
dish. Pour following custard over the pile of bread and bake ^ hr. 

3 eggs, beaten light 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 
3 large tblsp. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
J tsp. salt 2 c. boiling milk 

LEMON GELATIN PUDDING 

1| tblsp. granulated gelatin 1 lemon, juice and rind 



c. cold water 4 eggs, beaten separately 



■ ^ c. sugar 



176 



Soak gelatin in cold warer. Dissolve over boiling water. Add 
sugar to beaten yolks, beating thoroughly, add gelatin mixed with 
lemon juice and rind, stir until it begins to thicken, then fold in beaten 
whites. Place into a iiiold and chill. Serve with sweetened and 
flavored whipped cream. 

MACAROON PUDDING 

6 eggs, beaten separately | c. blanched almonds, chopped 

6 tblsp. sugar 

Line a well greased pudding dish with macaroons, fill with fruit 
and sugar, cover with the following mixture. Beat sugar and yolks 
5 min., add beaten whites and almonds. Bake in moderate oven. 
Serve hot with cream. 

MACAROON SOUFFLE 

1 doz. macaroons | c. crushed fruit 

1 c. boiling milk 1 c. cream, whipped 

3 eggs, beaten separately 

Soak macaroons in milk, gradually add beaten yolks, boil over 
hot water until smooth and rather thick, fold in whites, then bake in 
buttered mold in pan of hot water 20 min. When ready to serve, 
cover with fruit and whipped cream. 

MOCK WHIPPED CREAM 

1 tsp. Wingold flour ^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 tblsp. sugar 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 
I tsp. salt 

Mix first three ingredients with a little cold milk. Heat the rest 
of the milk and pour over mixture. Boil until smooth and thick, then 
pour over beaten whites, beating a few minutes, then cool and add 
vanilla. 

MOLASSES PUDDING 

1 c. bread crumbs 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. hot water 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. molasses | c. chopped raisins 

1 egg, beaten Spices to taste 

Mix thoroughly, steam 2 hrs. Serve with any desired sauce. 

MOLASSES SUET PUDDING 

1 c. finely chopped suet 1 tsp. soda 

1 c. molasses 1| tsp. salt 

1 c. milk ^ tsp. each Watkins' ginger, cloves, 

3 c. Wingold flour nutmeg 

— 177 — 



1 c. chopped raisins 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. currants 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add suet; mix together molasses 
and milk; combine the mixtures and add raisins and currants. Turn 
into a buttered mold; cover, and steam 3 hrs. 

ORANGE CREAM 

3 egg yolks, beaten light 1 tblsp. gelatin 
1 c. sugar i c. cold water 

1 c. milk Juice of 3 oranges 

1 orange rind, grated 
Beat sugar and yolks, add milk, beat well, then boil till thick. 
Soak gelatin in cold water, dissolve over hot water, cool, then add 
orange. Fold in a cup of whipped cream. Set onto ice for a few hrs. 
before serving. 

ORANGE FLUFF 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 orange, juice and rind 
6 tblsp. ])owdered sugar 1 lemon, juice 

2 tblsp. hot water Lady fingers 

Beat 4 tblsp. sugar with yolks, add fruit juices and rind, and hot 
water. Cook in double boiler until it thickens, stirring frequently. 
Remove from fire, add to whites, beaten with 2 tblsp. sugar. Chill 
and fill into cups, lined with lady fingers. 

ORANGE SPONGE 

I pkg. gelatin 1 c. orange juice 

I c. cold water I lemon, juice 

J c. boiling water 3 egg whites, beaten stifT 

f c. sugar 

Soak gelatin in cold water, then pour on boiling water. When 
dissolved add sugar and fruit juice. Strain and cool. When jelly 
sets, fold in beaten whites, then beat until smooth. 

ORANGE TRIFLE 

1 pkg. gelatin Juice of 1 lemon 

2 orange rinds, grated 1 ^c. sugar 

Juice of 6 oranges 1 qt. whipped cream 

Soak gelatin in cold water, add fruit, then heat till gelatin is dis- 
solved, let stand till thick, then add whipped cream, put into mold, 
and set into cold place. 

PEACH PUDDING 

1| c. crushed peaches 1 tsp. butter 

2 c. hot water 2 scant tblsp. cornstarch 

1 c. sugar 2 eggs, beaten separately 

— 178 — 



Boil peaches, water, sugar, butter, and pinch of salt, then add 
cornstarch dissolved in cold water, boil until smooth and thick, then 
add beaten yolks. Pour into pudding dish or individual cups, cover 
with meringue made of whites and 2 tblsp. powdered sugar, then 
bake a delicate brown. Serve with whipped cream or peach syrup. 

PEACH SURPRISE PUDDING 

1 c. Wingold flour f c. milk 

1 large tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 tblsp. melted butter 

I tsp. salt Small peeled peaches, stoned 

Make a batter of the above ingredients. Put a spoon of batter 
into each greased cup, then a peach filled with sugar and a piece of 
butter, and a spoon of batter on top. Steam or bake | hr. Serve 
with a sweet sauce. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

1 c. pearl tapioca Juice of 1 lemon 

2 c. sugar 1 can grated pineapple 

3 egg whites, beaten stiff j tsp. salt 

Soak tapioca over night, in morning drain off most of the water. 
Cook in double boiler until transparent, then add 2 c. sugar, lemon, 
pineapple, salt, and lastly the whites. Finish cooking, then cool and 
serve with whipped cream. 

PLAIN COTTAGE PUDDING 

J c. butter, creamed 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

2 eggs, beaten separately 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

Cream sugar and butter, add yolks, then flour sifted with baking 
powder and a pinch of salt, alternately with milk; beat well, then add 
the whites. Pour into well buttered pudding dish. Bake 45 min. 
Serve with any desired sauce. 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING 

I c. rice 4 tblsp. sugar 

1 tsp. salt ^ c. raisins or dates, choj)ped 

I tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 4 c. hot milk 

2 c. cold milk 
Mi.x first six ingredients, pour into buttered pudding dish, cook 
in slow oven 2 hrs., stirring occasionally first hour. At end of 2 hrs. 
add cold milk and cook | hr. longer. Serve with sugar and cream. 

POTATO PUDDING 

4 eggs, beaten separately § lemon, juice and rind 

^ c. sugar I c. grated boiled potato 

I c. blanched almonds, chopped j tsp. salt 

— 179 — 



Beat sugar and yolks 5 min., add other ingredients, folding in 
whites last. Mix thoroughly then put into well greased pudding dish 
and bake ^ hr., setting dish into pan with boiling water. Serve with 
chocolate sauce. 

PRUNE WHIP 

^ lb. stewed prunes, chopped 4 tblsp. sugar 

4 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Add sugar to whites, beat thoroughly, then fold in the prunes 
and add vanilla. Place into greased baking dish or individual cups and 
bake a delicate brown in moderate oven. 

QUEEN BREAD PUDDING 

2 c. bread crumbs 4 egg yolks, beaten light 

1 qt. milk 1 lemon rind, grated 

1 c. sugar Butter, size of an egg, melted 

Mix thoroughly and bake until well done. Add 1 c. powdered 
sugar to 4 egg whites beaten stiff and juice of 1 lemon. Spread a layer 
of jelly or jam over pudding, cover with the meringue and bake a 
delicate brow^n in oven. Serve with,or without cream. 

RAISIN PUFFS 

1 egg, beaten light ^ c. chopped walnuts 

1 tblsp. sugar 1 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. milk 1| tsp. Calumet baking powder 
^ c. chopped raisins J c. melted butter 

Mix in order given, add butter last, beat thoroughly. Steam | 
hr. in buttered cups. Serve with hard or foamy sauce. 

RASPBERRY CREAM 

2 tblsp. granulated gelatin 2 c. cream, whipped 

2 tblsp. cold water 1 qt. raspberries, crushed 

3 tblsp. boiling water | c. sugar 

Soak gelatin in cold water, add boiling water and stir until dis- 
solved. When cool, add crushed fruit mixed thoroughly with sugar, 
then add to whipped cream. Line a glass bowl with split lady fingers, 
pour on the raspberry cream, place lady fingers over the top, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Put into ice box for several hrs. to harden. 

RHUBARB PUDDING 

3 c. finely cut rhubarb I orange rind, grated 

2 c. bread crumbs ^ c. sugar 

2 tblsp. butter, melted j c. water 

Mix butter and crumbs, add orange to sugar. Put I of crumbs 
into bottom of buttered dish, then | of rhubarb, sprinkle with half the 

— 180 — 



sugar, continue alternating layers, having crumbs on top. Pour 
water over the whole. Bake in moderate oven 45 min. Serve with 
cream. 

RICE BALLS 

3 c. cooked rice j lb. stewed prunes 

I c. sugar J tsp. salt 

1 egg, well beaten 

Wring small cloths out of hot water. Mix rice with egg and sugar, 
spread |in. thick over each cloth, put prunes'into center ofjeach, draw 
up cloth until rice entirely covers prunes, tie tightly, then steam 10 
min. Remove cloth then serve balls with any desired sauce. 

ROTHE GRUETZE 

I c. minute tapioca 1 qt. red raspberries 

1| c. sugar 1 qt. red currants 

I tsp. salt 2 c. cold water 

Boil berries and water until thoroughly boiled; strain and add 
sugar and salt; while hot, pour over tapioca in double boiler, boil until 
clear and thick. Pour into a form or individual cups and serve cold 
with cream. 

SNOW BALLS 

I c. butter 1 c. Wingold flour 

^ c. sugar I c. cornstarch 

I c. milk 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

4 egg whites, beaten stiff 
Mix and sift flour, cornstarch, and baking powder. Fold in 
whites last. Steam in greased individual cups 20 min. Serve hot 
with Strawberry sauce. See index. 

SNOW PUDDING 

3 tblsp. cornstarch, dissolved in 1 pt. boiling water 

bit of cold water 3 egg-whites, beaten stiff 

Pinch of salt 

Steam in molds 10 min. 

Sauce 

3 egg-yolks, beaten | c. sugar 

1 c. milk 1 tblsp. butter 

Flavor. Cook till quite thick. Serve ice-cold. 

SPICE PUDDING 

6 tblsp. melted butter 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 3| tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten light j tsp. salt 

1 c. milk 1 c. raisins, chopped 

. —181 — 



I tsp. each Watkins' nutmeg, cloves, and cinnamon 
Steam 25 min. in small cups or 2 hrs. in one large form. Serve 
with hard sauce or whipped cream. 

STEAMED BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

1 tblsp. butter, creamed f c. milk 

h c. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 egg, beaten light 3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 c. blueberries 

Mix in order given. Steam 1| hrs. Serve with any desired 
sauce. Blackberries may also be used in this recipe. 

STEAMED BROWN PUDDING 

1 c. melted butter h c. sour milk 

1 egg, beaten light 1 tsp. soda 

^ c. molasses ^ tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

I c. raisins | c. Wingold flour 

Mix thoroughly. Steam H hrs. Serve with hard sauce. 

STEAMED CARAMEL PUDDING 

6 tblsp. sugar j c. butter 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour j lb. blanched almonds, chopped 

1 c. milk 6 eggs, beaten separately 

Melt sugar in omelet pan to a syrup, add flour and milk, stirring 
until it forms a paste, cool, then add butter, nuts, and yolks, beat 
well, then fold in whites. Place into buttered and sugared form, then 
steam 1 hr. Serve with whipped cream. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. No. I 

2 tsp. melted butter 1 sq. chocolate, grated 
2' c. sugar h c. milk 

1 egg, beaten light 1 c. Wingold flour 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder 
Mix ingredients in order given and steam 1 hr. Serve with 

vanilla sauce or whi])ped cream. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. No. II 

3 tblsp. butter, creamed j tsp. salt 

f c. sugar 2j c. Wingold flour 

1 egg, well beaten 2^ tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 c. milk 2^ sq. chocolate, melted 

Mix in order given, sifting flour with salt and baking powder. 
Turn into buttered mold or individual cups. Cover and steam 2 hrs. 
for loaf or f hr. for cups. Serve with cream sauce. 

— 182 — 



STEAMED WHITE PUDDING 

I c. butter 2^ c. Wingold flour 

1 c. sugar 3| tsp. Calumet baking powder 
i c. milk 4 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Mix in order given, folding in whites last. Turn into well but- 
tered baking powder tins and steam 1 hr. Serve with chocolate 
sauce. See index. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING 

2 qts. strawberries, crushed 1 pkg. gelatin 

1 pt. cream, whipped 1 c. warm water 

2 c. sugar j tsp. salt 

Dissolve gelatin in warm water, then add berries mixed with 
sugar, and lastly fold in whipped cream. Put into form and let settle. 

SUET PUDDING 

1 c. suet, chopped fine | c. raisins, chopped 

2 eggs, beaten light ^ c. sour milk 
^ c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

Wingold flour to make very stiff batter 
Add eggs, sugar, and raisins to suet, then add milk with dissolved 
soda. Beat thoroughly, then add flour. Put into tin with a tube 
and steam 1 hr. Serve with following sauce. Mix 1 c. sugar and 1 
tblsp. flour, gradually add 2 c. boiling water, stir until thick and 
smooth, then add butter and 1 tsp. vanilla. 

SURPRISE PUDDING 

1 qt. milk ^ c. sugar 

3 tsp. cornstarch 1 c. chopped raisins 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. Watkins' lemon extract 

Boil milk in double boiler, add to it the cornstarch, beaten yolks, 
and sugar mixed together. Stir quickly and thoroughly and take 
from fire. Add raisins and flavoring. Pour into pudding dish to cool. 
When set cover with cocoanut, and then spread the meringue, made of 
whites and 4 tblsp. sugar, on top and brown in slow oven. Serve 
either hot or cold, with or without cream. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

4 tblsp. tapioca soaked over night. In morning boil in tloublc 
boiler till clear. 

1 qt. milk 1 c. sugar 

4 egg yolks 1 ts]i. Watkins' \anilla 

Boil the milk, add the yolks well beaten with the sugar, then add 
the tapioca and boil until like thick custard, add vanilla, then pour 
into pudding dish. Cover with meringue of 4 beaten whites and h c. 
sugar, lirown in oven. 

— 183 — 



WALNUT BREAD PUDDING 

1 c. bread crumbs 3 eggs, beaten separately 

2 c. scalded milk ^ c. walnuts, broken 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Add crumbs and nuts to scalded milk, simmer 5 min. when cool, 
add yolks of eggs beaten with the sugar, then add vanilla and lastly 
the beaten whites. Bake in buttered dish ^ hr. Serve hot with 
vanilla sauce. 



Salad Dressings and Salads 

BOILED DRESSING. No. I 

3 tblsp. vinegar ^ tsp. each salt and Watkins' mus- 
3 tblsp. water tard 

1 tblsp. cornstarch | c. sugar 

1 egg, well beaten 2 tblsp. melted butter 

Dissolve cornstarch in water, add to boiling vinegar, boil until 
smooth, then add egg, seasoning, sugar, and butter, also pepper and 
paprika to suit taste. Boil up well, then beat until cool. 

BOILED DRESSING. No. II 

2 whole eggs or 4 yolks 3 tblsp. sugar 

1 tblsp. butter 1 tblsp. Watkins' mustard 

^ c. vinegar J tsp. Watkins' pepper 

1 c. water 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. salt 

Mix dry ingredients, then add butter, vinegar, and water. Boil 
in double boiler until thick and smooth, then gradually add beaten 
yolks. Add cream when ready to serve. 

CATSUP CREAM DRESSING 

^ c. catsup 1 tblsp. sugar 

2 tblsp. oil 1 tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. vinegar 1 c. cream 

Mix salt, sugar, oil, vinegar, catsup, and lastly the cream. Beat 
thoroughly. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

3 egg yolks, beaten light 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 
J tsp. each salt and Watkins' 1 c. milk 

pepper | c. boiling vinegar 

— 184 — 



1 tsp. Watkins' mustard 1 tsp. butter 

1 c. sugar 2 egg whites, beaten stiflf 

Mix first five ingredients thoroughly, then add milk and boiling 
vinegar and cook until thick. Add the butter and the beaten white. 
Use dressing cold with whipped cream. 

CREAM BOILED DRESSING 

5 yolks, beaten light | c. water 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' mustard 
I c. cream | tsp. Watkins' pepper 

I c. vinegar 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1| tsp. salt 

Beat yolks and sugar, add cream. Mix dry ingredients, add to 
yolks, then add vinegar and water. Boil over water until thick and 
smooth, stirring constantly. 

EGG NOG DRESSING 

3 egg yolks, beaten light 1 egg white, beaten^ stiff 

1 c. powdered sugar Lemon juice to taste. 

Add sugar to yolks, beat light before folding in beaten white, 
then add lemon. Make just before using. 

EXCELLENT SALAD DRESSING 

4 egg-yolks, well beaten 1 tblsp. salt 

5 tblsp. butter, melted 1 tblsp. Watkins' mustard 

4 tblsp. sugar ^ c. vinegar 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour 1| c. boiling milk 

Mix flour and mustard, then add to butter. Slowly add the 
milk, beat well, then add eggs, sugar, salt, and lastly the vinegar. 
Boil in double boiler, again beat well. Thin with cream when ready 
for use. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

^ tsp. salt 2 tblsp. vinegar or lemon juice 

J tsp. pepper 4 tblsp. olive oil 

Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. 

FRUIT DRESSING 

1 egg, well beaten 5 tblsp. vinegar 

5 tblsp. sugar | tsp. salt 

^ c. whipped cream 

Mix first four ingredients and cook until thick, then cool and 
mix with the cream. 

— 185 — 



HOME SALAD DRESSING 

3 tblsp. butter | c. vinegar 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 c. boiling milk 2 tblsp. sugar 

1 tsp. Watkins' mustard j tsp. Watkins' pepper 

Salt to taste 

Melt butter, stir in flour, and then boiling milk. Dissolve mus- 
tard in vinegar and gradually add to the above, stirring well until 
thick. Take from lire, add sugar and eggs and mix thoroughly, then 
put on fire again and just let it boil up. Before serving, add cream. 

LEMON FRUIT DRESSING 

Juice of 1 lemon 1 egg white, beaten stiff 

f c. sugar ^ c. whipped cream 

Boil juice and sugar; pour gradually over beaten white; beat 
until cool; then add to whipped cream. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

2 egg yolks, beaten light | tsp. sugar 

1 c. olive oil 1 tblsp. vinegar 

1 tsp. salt 1 tblsp. lemon juice 

J tsp. paprika Few grains cayenne 

Add seasonings to egg yolks, beat well, then add oil, little by little, 
beating constantly with Dover egg beater. When thick, add lemon 
and vinegar, a few drops at a time. The success of this dressing lies 
in beating yolks thoroughly before adding oil slowly. 

PLAIN BOILED DRESSING 

1 tblsp. butter, melted 1 tsp. sugar 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. vinegar Watkins' red pepper to suit taste 

Cook in double boiler with egg-yolks until it thickens, cool, then 
add whites of eggs. Just before serving mix with whipped cream. 

OIL MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

3 hard boiled yolks 1 tblsp. sugar 

1 raw yolk Juice of 1 lemon 

2 tsp. prepared mustard 2 tblsp. white vinegar 
1 tsp. onion juice 3 tsp. olive oil 

I tsp. pepper 

Mash and rub boiled yolks, add raw yolk, mix well, then add 
other ingredients, add oil drop by drop last. Beat thoroughly until 
smooth. Keep in cool place. 

— 186 — 



OLIVE SAUCE 

6 stuffed olives | c. mayonnaise 

2 small pickles 1 tblsp. chopped parsley 

Chop olive and pickles very fine, mix with mayonnaise, add 
parsley. 

PLAIN SALAD DRESSING 

Butter, size of an egg 1 tsp. salt 

1 large tblsp. Wingold flour 3 tblsp. sugar 

1 egg, beaten | c. vinegar 

J tsp. each Watkins' mustard J c. water 
and pepper 

Melt butter, mix with flour, add egg, then the other ingredients 
and boil until smooth and thick. Mix with cream when ready to use. 

PREPARED MUSTARD 

3 tblsp. mustard 1 tsp. sugar 

1 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. boiling water 

Sift dry ingredients together until thoroughly mixed, then add 
boiling water and boil until thick. Beat until cool, then add enough 
vinegar to make mixture thin enough for table use. Use rotary egg 
beater to beat smooth. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING 

J lb. Roquefort cheese 3 tblsp. lemon juice 

J tsp. paprika 4 tblsp. cream 

Put cheese through ricer, mix with the rest of ingredients until 
well mixed and smooth. Vinegar and olive oil may take the place of. 
lemon and cream if desired. 

ROQUEFORT SALAD DRESSING 

3 tblsp. Roquefort cheese 1 tblsp. chilli sauce 

2 tblsp. sweet or sour cream 1 tblsp. chopped chives or water 
2 tblsp. pimientos rubbed through cress 

a sieve Very little French or other dress- 

Salt and paprika to season ing to mix 

Cream the cheese, add all of the ingredients. This may be made 
quite liquid by addition of French dressing or made of heavier con- 
sistency by use of mayonnaise or cooked dressing. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING 

1 c. thick sour cream ^ tsp. lemon juice 

1 tblsp. powdered sugar Pinch of salt 

— 187 — 



Have cream very cold, then whip. Beat in the sugar, salt, and 
lemon. Good for raw tomatoes and cucumbers. Delicious to serve 
with fish. 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 

1 c. mayonnaise dressing 1 tblsp. chopped caper 

2 hard boiled eggs 3 tblsp. sliced stuffed olives 

1 chopped green pepper 1 tblsp. pearl onions 

2 whole pimientos (canned red Dash tabasco sauce 

peppers) 

Have all materials well chilled. Separate and chop fine the whites 
and yolks of hard boiled eggs. Cut the pimientos into long strips and 
cut again into small pieces. Combine all of the materials. In serv- 
ing this dressing serve in sauce boat or mayonnaise dish. If cooked 
salad dressing is used as base, first add a small quantity of whipped 
cream to the dressing. 

CREAM CHEESE IN VARIOUS COMBINATIONS 

WITH SALADS 

Carrots. — Put J lb. fresh American cheese through a^ ricer, 
season with paprika. Place a large tblsp. into palm of hand and roll 
and shape into form of carrot. Put a sprig of parsley into stem end. 
Serve as a garnish. 

Walnut Surprise. — Cut cream cheese into thin slices, then into 
squares; press into the cheese on each side half a walnut or hickory 
nut. 

Dates. — Remove stones from dates and fill with mashed cream 
cheese, seasoned with salt, paprika, and chopped celery, and moist- 
ened with cream. Serve on lettuce, sprinkle with chopped green 
peppers. 

FRUIT SALADS 

Excellent salads are made from various combinations. 

(a) Oranges, bananas, pineapple, dates and nuts. 

(b) Apples, malaga grapes, celery and nuts. 

(c) Grape fruit, oranges, dates, malaga grapes, quartered marsh- 
mallows, and nuts. 

(d) Bananas, strawberries, oranges, dates and nuts. 

(e) Bananas, dates, niarshmallows. 

(f) Pineapple, malaga grapes, white cherries, pecans, half the 
whole amount of celery, few maraschino cherries. 

(g) 2 c. celery, 2 oranges, 1 c. seeded raisins, all cut fine. To 1 c. 
of dressing add | c. grated apple. 

Serve on lettuce, cress, nasturtium leaves, or in orange shells. 
Dust fruit lightly with salt; then sprinkle with powdered sugar; top 
with cream or fruit dressing; and sprinkle with chopped nuts. 

Salads may also be served on shredded lettuce, which is lettuce 
cut fine with pair of scissors. 

— 188 — 



ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Drain and rinse stalks of canned asparagus. Cut rings from 
bright red sweet pepper ^ in. wide. Place three or four stalks into 
each ring. Arrange on lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing 
to which has been added j tsp. Worcestershire sauce. 

BEET SALAD 

7 boiled beets and 15 filled olives chopped fine. Mix with any 
preferred dressing, serve in nest of shredded lettuce. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Chop equal parts of cabbage and celery and 2 hard boiled eggs. 
Mix with any salad dressing mixed with cream. Sprinkle top with 
nuts. 

CABBAGE SALAD WITH OIL 

1 small solid head cabbage j c. vinegar 

1 onion I tsp. paprika 

1 green pepper 2 tblsp. oil 

Chop cabbage, onion and pepper. Mix other ingredients until 
thick, pour over cabbage and serve. 

CELERY SALAD 

Scrape, then boil celery roots till tender. Cut into cubes or 
slices. Mix thoroughly with following dressing: 

1 c. vinegar ^ tsp. each Watkins' pepper and mustard 

1 c. sugar 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 tsp. salt 

Use measure cup to mix flour and some of the water in which the 
celery was boiled; then fill the rest of the c. with celery water. Mix 
with other ingredients, boil, then pour hot over the celery. This is 
for 2 qts. of celery. If sealed in cans, it keeps a long time. 

CELERY AND APPLE SALAD 

Cut a desired amount of celery and apples into rather small 
pieces. Use equal parts of celery and apples with j part broken nuts. 
Mix with boiled dressing and cream, 

CHERRY AND FILBERT SALAD 

Stone a can of white cherries and fill each cavity with a filbert 
nut. Arrange 7 or 8 on lettuce hearts and serve with mayonnaise. 

CHESTNUT SALAD 

Place slit chestnuts into oven with 1 tsp. butter for 5 min. Re- 
move outer and inner shell, then boil until tender. Serve with diced 
bananas, apples, and celery, mixed with cream dressing on lettuce. 

— 189 — 



CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut chicken meat into dice, also the same quantity of celery, mix 
the two, then mix with any good salad dressing. 

CHICKEN AND NUT SALAD 

White meat of 1 chicken chopped fine, equal amount chopped 
celery, 1 c. blanched almonds, cut fine, 12 olives, cut fine. Mix with 
any desired dressing, season to taste, and serve on shredded lettuce. 

COLLEGE BOYS' SALAD 

2 packages Neuschatel cheese h tsp. salt 

1 c. grated American cheese | tsp. pepper 

3 pimientos 4 tblsp. cream 
10 stufifed olives 

Work into a paste, then form into balls and serve on lettuce with 
following sauce: 

4 tblsp. horse radish 1 tblsp. vinegar 
1 tblsp. lemon juice | tsp. salt 

3 tblsp. cream 
Serve with rye bread and butter. 

CREAM POTATO SALAD 

2 qts. potatoes, sliced fine. 
Dressing 
I c. vinegar Butter, size of an egg 

I c. sugar 1 onion, cut fine 

1 tsp. salt 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 

Melt butter, stir in the flour, add vinegar, sugar, salt, and onion 
and bring to a boil. Pour over the potatoes and mix carefully. Just 
before serving add 1 c. sweet cream. (Very good). 

FIG SALAD 

Equal parts of figs, apples, and celery, chopped rather fine and 
served on lettuce leaf with rich cream dressing. 

FILLED TOMATO SALAD 

Cut medium sized tomatoes in two, crosswise and scoop out the 
inside, chop this with equal parts of onion, cucumber, celery, and 
green peppers. Drain, then season with salt, pepper, olive oil, and 
vinegar. Fill tomato shells and cover with dressing mixed with 
whipped cream. Dust with red pepper. 

FOWL AND EGG SALAD 

Equal parts of white meat of fowl, hard-boiled eggs, and celery, 
all cut into dice and mixed with dressing. Sprinkle nuts over the top. 

— 190 — 



FRUIT SALAD FLUFF 

2 c. diced pineapple | lb. marshmallows, quartered 

1 c. seeded white grapes or J lb. pecans, broken 

1 c. Royal Ann cherries 

Drain, chill and let stand several hours dressed with the follow- 
ing mixture: 

2 egg yolks j tsp. mustard 
1 lemon, juice J tsp. salt 

1 c. whipped cream 
Beat the egg yolks with the lemon juice, add the salt and mus- 
tard. Cook over hot water. Chill and then whip into the whipped 
cream. 

GERMAN CABBAGE SALAD 

2| c. chopped cabbage 1| c. whipped cream 

Sugar, salt, pepper, and vinegar to taste. 

GERMAN CELERY SALAD 

Boil washed celery roots till tender, then scrape and cut into 
cubes or slices. Mix thoroughly with following mixture: 
J c. vinegar 5 c. sugar 

I c. water Salt and Watkins' pepper to taste 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD 

1 qt. boiled potatoes, sliced 1 scant tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 onion, cut fine j c. sugar 

1 tsp. salt • I c. vinegar 

f tsp. Watkins' pepper | c. hot water 

J lb. bacon, sliced and cut fine 

Add onion, salt, and pepper to the potatoes. Fry bacon light 
brown, stir in the flour, then add hot water, vinegar and sugar, boil 
up, then pour hot over potatoes. If sauce is too thick add equal parts 
of water and vinegar, or take less flour. If preferred, onions may be 
browned slightly in bacon fat, instead of adding raw to potatoes. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Cut 2 grape fruit into halves, remove pulp, cut into fine pieces, add 
1 c. halved white grapes and diced pineapple, moisten with any de- 
sired dressing, and return to shell. 

GRAPE NUT SALAD 

1 c. celery, cut 4 tblsp. grape nuts 

1 c. apples, diced ^ c. nuts, broken 

Mix lightly with cream salad dressing. Serve in nest of shredded 
lettuce. 

— 191 — 



GREEN OR WAX BEAN SALAD 

Cut the beans slantingly into long thin pieces and boil in salt 
water until tender. Pour off water, slice in as much onion as liked, 
then pour over .the beans a hot mixture of half vinegar, half water, 
sugar, salt, and pepper to taste, or a mixture of thick sweet cream, 1 
tblsp. vinegar, salt, sugar, and pepper to taste. Either mixture is 
fine with the beans. Serve warm. 

HAM SALAD 

1 lb. ham, chopped | c. chopped celery 

^ c. chopped pickles 

Mix lightly with any preferred salad dressing. 

HERRING SALAD. No. I 

3 herring, cleaned and minced 1 onion, chopped 

3 apples, chopped 1 sweet pepper 

3 boiled potatoes, chopped 4 hard boiled eggs, chopped 

f c. veal, chopped | tsp. sugar 

^ c. nuts, chopped Salt and Watkins' pepper to taste 

Mix above ingredients and serve with any dressing, or merely 
with vinegar. Left overs may be used in this salad. 

HERRING SALAD. No. II 

6 herring, soaked 36 hrs. 4 boiled potatoes 

6 hard boiled eggs 5 sour pickles 

3 or 4 sour apples 1 large onion 

5 boiled beets 1^ lb. boiled veal 

Skin and bone the herring. Chop all ingredients. Put the milk 
of the herring through a wire sieve, add to mixed ingredients, season- 
ing with vinegar, sugar, salt, and pepper. Serve in nest of shredded 
lettuce. 

JELLY SALAD 

i package gelatin 1 pt. boiling water 

^ c. cold water | c. sugar 

^ c. vinegar 1 tsp. salt 

Juice of 1 lemon 3 c. diced salad food 

Soak gelatin in cold water 2 min., add vinegar, lemon juice, sugar, 
salt, and boiling water. When beginning to set, add the diced salad 
food, which may be any mixture of foods used in salads, as celery, 
cabbage, peppers, nuts, fruits, olives, or meats. 

MALAGA SALAD 

Peel and seed white grapes, stuff with pimientos. Separate 
oranges into sections and free from skin and seeds. Mash a small 

— 192 — 



cream cheese, moisten with French dressing, add j c. chopped pecans, 
then form into balls size of grapes. Arrange all on a nest of lettuce 
leaves for individual service and serve with French dressing. 

MUSHROOM SALAD 

1 c. mushrooms 1 c. chicken 

1 c. boiled or fried sweetbreads 1 c. dressing 

Cut mushrooms, sweetbreads, and chicken into small pieces, mix 
with the dressing and serve on lettuce. 

ORANGE AND CELERY SALAD 

3 large celery roots 1 c. sugar 
6 large oranges, sliced thin ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. raisins 

Cook celery roots like potatoes, then slice quite thin. Mix sugar 
and salt. Place a layer of celery into a crock, then a layer of orange, 
sprinkle with raisins, salt and sugar, repeat until crock is filled. Set 
into cool place and put a weight on it. Use the next day. 

OUR CELERY SALAD 

2 small celery roots j tsp. Watkins' pepper 
Stalk celery 1 tsp. salt 

I c. vinegar j lb. blanched almonds, chopped 

J c. sugar I c. sour cream 

Boil scrubbed celery roots until tender in salted water. Peel and 
slice, then measure, take equal measure of diced stalk celery, then mix 
the two with the rest of the ingredients, adding sour cream last. 
Serve cold on lettuce. 

PEA SALAD 

1 can peas 4 tblsp. cream cheese 

4 tblsp. pickles 3 tblsp. onions 

Cut pickles, cheese, and onions rather fine, mix with peas, season 
with salt and paprika. Mix lightly with fork, then add small amount 
of any preferred dressing. 

PEA SALAD WITH NUTS 

1 can peas, boiled, seasoned 3 tblsp. onions, choi)i)cd 

3 tblsp. cheese, cubed | c. nuts 
3 tblsp. sweet-sour pickles, chopped 

Toss all ingredients together, mix with a fork, add salad dressing 
and serve on large slice of tomato or lettuce leaf. 

PINEAPPLE SURPRISE SALAD 

Put a slice of pineapi)le onto a lettuce leaf on an indi\idual ])latc. 
Fill center of pineapple with blanched almonds, cover this with h 

— 193 — 



peach; around edge of pineapple place strawberries or stoned cherries. 
Place cream salad dressing on top of peach. 

POTATO SALAD 

9 large potatoes, boiled with skins 1 small onion, cut fine 

1 bunch celery, cut fine 4 or 5 hard boiled eggs, sliced 

Mix above ingredients with following dressing: 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 heaping tsp. Wingold flour 
1 tblsp. butter | tsp. dry mustard 

1 tsp. salt J c. vinegar 

Boil and stir until thick, remove from fire, add 1 well beaten egg, 
stir until smooth and cool, then add 1 c. cream or milk. 

POTATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Mix diced cold boiled potatoes with half their bulk of diced 
cucumbers, and 1 chopped onion with a generous amount of boiled 
salad dressing to which has been added | c. of cream. 

PRUNE SALAD 

Stew large prunes until tender, remove stones then fill the cavity 
with whole nuts, or a nut mixture or cream cheese. Roll prunes in 
powdered sugar, serve on shredded lettuce with cream salad dressing. 

SALMON SALAD 

1 tall can salmon, minced 1 c. shredded cabbage 

1 c. chopped celery 1 small onion, chopped fine 

1 c. chopped boiled ham 

Mix the above ingredients, then add following dressing: 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 heaping tsp. Wingold flour 
1 tblsp. butter | tsp. dry mustard 

1 tsp. salt ^ c. vinegar 

Boil and stir until thick, remove from fire, add 1 well beaten egg, 
stir until smooth and cool, then add 1 c. cream or milk. 

SALMON OR SHRIMP SALAD 

1 can salmon or shrimp 1 c. dressing 

1^ c. celery Lettuce 

Free the salmon from skin, bones, and oil. Pick the fish apart, 
then add celery and dressing. Season to taste, then serve on lettuce. 

SARDINE SALAD 

1 can sardines 1 c. thin cream 

5 c. butter, melted 2 hard boiled eggs 

1 c. bread crumbs Salt, and Watkins' pepper to taste 

— 194 — 



Drain sardines, remove bone, and mash. Thoroughly heat but- 
ter, crumbs, and cream; then add chopped eggs, sardines, and season 
ing. Serve on crackers or toasted bread. 

SARDINE JELLY SALAD 

Make a pt. of lemon jelly, omitting the sugar. When half set, 
pour into shallow pan and place little sardines into a row about 2 in. 
apart. When set, cut into squares, allowing 1 sardine to each square. 
Serve on lettuce with a tsp. of currant jelly as dressing. 

SUMMER SALAD 

2 stalks of celery 2 tblsp. cream, whipped 

2 green peppers 2 tblsp. dressing 

2 tomatoes Vinegar, salt, and pepper 

Skin and cut tomatoes; cut celery and peppers into small pieces. 
Add dressing to cream, season with vinegar, salt, and pepper, then 
mix with the vegetables. Serve on shredded lettuce. 

SUMMER SALAD WITH SWEETBREADS 

Six fresh cucumbers of same size pared and cut into halves length- 
wise. Scoop out centers, then place in water till wanted. Dry and 
fill with a mixture of parboiled sweetbreads, diced, and peas dressed 
with mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce with dainty plain bread and 
butter sandwiches. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

Boil sweetbreads in salt water 20 min., drain, cool, and cut into 
cubes. Take same amount of boiled peas, and diced celery, then 
mix with any desired dressing. 

SWISS SALAD 

1 medium cucumber, diced ^ c. cooked peas 

1 c. diced cold lamb 1 tsp. mint juice 

1 c. shredded lettuce 1 c. mayonnaise 

Mix together, serve on bed of lettuce leaves. Garnish with small 
stuffed olives. 

TOMATO AND PEA SALAD 

Scoop out skinned tomatoes, fill with cold boiled peas and chopi)ed 
walnuts, with French or mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

Simmer for 15 min., h can tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, 4 cloves, ^ tsp. 
salt, I tsp. onion juice, then press through a sieve. Add I box gelatin, 
soaked in | c. cold water and stir until it dissolves. Quickly add ^ c. 
each chopped celery and cabbage, then pour into wet molds. Serve 
with dressing on lettuce. 

— 195 — 



TUNA FISH SALAD 

1 large can Tuna 1 chopped green pepper 

2 c. chopped celery Salad dressing 

Remove bones and skin from fish, separate into small pieces, add 
celery and pepper, then mix lightly with dressing. Season to taste, 
then serve on shredded lettuce. 

VEGETABLE SALAD 

Chop equal parts of cucumbers, green peppers, celery, and onions, 
then put together and let stand 1 hr. Serve with any dressing on 
lettuce. 

VEGETABLE GELATINE SALAD 

I box gelatin 1 pt. boiling water 

^ c. cold water 1 tsp. salt 

^ scant c. vinegar Juice of 1 lemon 

5 tblsp. sugar 

Soak gelatin in cold water, add boiling water, when dissolved add 
other ingredients. When beginning to set add 3j c. of celery, cabbage, 
and pimientos, mixed and chopped. 

WHITE FRUIT SALAD 

1 c. diced pineapple 2 pears 

1 c. malaga grapes 1 apple 

2 bananas 1 grape fruit 

Peel, seed; and cut grapes, dice bananas, pears, and apple, re- 
move grape fruit from skins in sections. Serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. 



Sauces for Puddings and Desserts 

BERRY SAUCE 

2 egg whites, not beaten 1 c. crushed berries, strained 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Put all together into a qt. measure, use Dover egg beater and 
beat constantly until very stiff. Any crushed and strained fruit may 
be used. 

BRANDY OR WINE SAUCE 

1 c. water 3 egg yolks, beaten thick 

1 c. sugar 2 tblsp. brandy or sherry wine 

I c. cream 1 tblsp. lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water 10 min. Add cream, brandy, lemon, and 
a pinch of salt to yolks, combine with boiled sugar, 'boil, then beat 
until mixture thickens. 

— 196 — 



BROWNiSUGAR SAUCE 

^ c. cream 3 c. Ijuttcr 

1 c. brown sugar 1 Isp. Walkins' vanilla 

Mix cream and brown sugar, add to creamed I)utter. Beat until 
of creamy consistency, then add vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

1 sq. chocolate ^ c. boiling water 

1 tblsp. butter 1 c. sugar 

I tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
Melt chocolate over boiling water, add butter, then water, and 
sugar. Boil 10 min., cool slightly, then add vanilla. 

CREAM SAUCE 

I c. butter, creamed j c. heavy cream, whipped 

1 c. powdered sugar | tsp. vanilla 

Mix thoroughly, then serve. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

1| c. milk, scalded | tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

I tsp. salt 3 egg-yolks, well beaten 

J c. sugar 

Add sugar and salt to beaten eggs. Stir constantly while adding 
gradually the hot milk. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly 
until mixture thickens. Cool and flavor. If cooked too long, custard 
will curdle. If this should happen, beat with Dover egg beater until 
smooth. If eggs are scarce, use two yolks and | tblsp. cornstarch. 

EGG SAUCE 

1 egg J c. powdered sugar 

Beat egg separately, then together; add sugar and beat again. 

FOAMY SAUCE. No. I 

2 eggs, beaten separately 3 tblsp. boiling water 

1 scant c. sugar Sherry wine or 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Beat sugar into the yolks, whip very light, add the water, beat 
thoroughly, flavor, then add the beaten whites and whip again very 
thoroughly. Serve at once. 

FOAMY SAUCE. No. II 

1 c. sugar 1 egg white, beaten light 

5 c. water 1 c. whipped cream 

Boil sugar and water until it threads, then pour in a fine stream 
into foamy white. Beat until cold, then fold in the whii)ped cream 
and any desired flavor. 

GRAPE SAUCE 

I c. sweetened grape juice 1 tblsp. cornstarch 

^ c. water 1 tbls]). lemon juice 

— 197 — 



Heat the juice and water; add the cornstarch dissolved in g- c. 
cold water. Boil 5 min., then add lemon juice. 

HARD SAUCE 

J c. butter 1 egg white, not beaten 

1 c. powdered sugar Sherry wine or 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

Pile on dish and sprinkle with nutmeg. 

HARD SAUCE 

^ c. butter h tsp. Watkins' lemon extract 

1 c. powdered sugar | tsp. vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and then add flavors. 

JELLY SAUCE 

1 glass jelly 1 tblsp. butter, melted 

J c. boiling water 1 tblsp. Wingold flour. 

Melt jelly in boiling water over slow fire. Add flour to butter, 
mix thoroughly, then gradually add the hot jelly licjuid. Boil until 
smooth. Serve hot over any pudding. 

LEMON SAUCE 

I c. sugar 2 tblsp. butter 

1| tblsp. Wingold flour 1^ tblsp. lemon juice 

1 c. boiling water j tsp. Watkins' nutmeg 

Mix flour and sugar, add water gradually, stirring constantly; 
boil 5 min., remove from fire, add butter, lemon, and nutmeg. 

MAPLE SAUCE 

2 egg yolks, beaten thick | c. whipped cream 
I c. maple syrup | tsp. salt 

Add syrup to yolks and boil until it thickens. Fold in cream, 
add salt, chill, and serve. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 c. whipped cream 

Add sugar to whites, beat carefully; add yolks, beat again; then 
vanilla, and lastly fold in whipped cream. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE 

1 qt. raspberries or strawberries 1 c. powdered sugar 
1 tblsp. melted butter 

Mash berries and beat all ingredients together. 

SOUR CREAM SAUCE 

2 c. sour cream, sugar to taste, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Beat with Dover beater until light and thick. 

— 198 — 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

^ c. butter, creamed 1 egg yolk, beaten 

I c. powdered sugar 1 c. crushed strawberries 

Beat thoroughly, then serve. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

1 tblsp. butter, melted 2 c. boiling water 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour I c. sugar 

1 tsp. Watkins' vanilla 
Mix flour thoroughly with butter, gradually add boiling water 
and sugar. Boil until smooth and rather thick, add flavor, and serve 
hot. 

WINE SAUCE 

2 eggs, beaten light 1 c. wine 

f c. sugar I tsp. salt 

Mix sugar and eggs thoroughly, gradually add the wine, heated 
to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Boil until smooth and 
thick, pour into sauce dish and serve warm. 

YELLOW SAUCE 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Add sugar gradually to beaten yolks. Fold in stiftly beaten 
whites and add flavor. 

YELLOW SAUCE WITH BUTTER 

^ c. butter, creamed 2 eggs, beaten separately 

1 c. sugar 1 lemon, juice and rind. 

Add beaten yolks to sugar and butter creamed, then add lemon 
and lastly the beaten whites. Beat thoroughly, then set onto ice to cool. 



Soups and Griddle Cakes 

ALMOND SOUP WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

1 c. blanched chopped almonds 1 c. whipped cream 

1 qt. thin cream 

Simmer almonds and thin cream for 5 min. Thicken a very 
little, add salt and a little white pepper and strain; pour over this a 
cup of whipped cream and beat all until foamy. Serve very hot in 
heated cups with hot wafers. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP 

2 c. baked beans 2 c. water 

2 tblsp. onion, chopped 4 tblsp. butter 

2 c. tomatoes 2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

Cook beans in water 10 min., press through a sieve. Cook onion 

— 199 — 



in butter 5 min., add flour and seasonings, when well blended, add 
tomato, cook 5 min., strain, add bean mixture, reheat and serve. 

BEAN SOUP. No. I 

3 lbs. lean beaf 1 qt. beans 

Soak beans over night. Boil meat and beans separately for 2 
hrs. Put both together into meat pot, keep well covered with boiling 
water, add a pinch of soda, then let boil 2 hrs. longer. Mash beans 
through colander, add to liquid and serve hot. 

BEAN SOUP. No. II 

Soak beans over night, boil with a ham bone or a piece of ham, 
a large chopped onion, some chopped celery, and strained tomato 
until beans are very tender, season with salt and pepper and serve 
hot. 

CELERY SOUP 

3 c. celery, | in. pieces 2^ c. milk 

1 pt. boiling water I c. Wingold flour 

3 tblsp. butter 1 slice onion 

Cook celery in boiling water until soft and rub through sieve. 
Scald milk with onion, remove onion, and add milk to celery, bind 
with butter and flour well blended, season with salt and pepper. 
Serve with whipped cream, chopped parsley and crackers or croutons. 

CORN CHOWDER 

I can corn 1 pt. milk 

1 pt. diced raw potatoes | tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. butter 1 c. boiling water 
1 onion, chopped fine. 

Smother the onion in 1 tblsp. butter until tender. Add potatoes 
and water and boil until potatoes are tender. Add remaining butter, 
corn, and milk. Let boil a moment. Serve hot with wafers. 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP 

1 pt. tomatoes 1 tblsp. sugar 

1 slice onion 1 c. boiling water 

1 bay leaf 

Boil above ingredients 20 min., strain and add J tsp. soda. Heat 
1 pt. milk and add it to the tomatoes, then add I c. flour mixed with 
water, 1 large tblsp. butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

LEMON OR WINE SOUP 

1 qt. boiling water 1 scant tsp. salt 
Juice of 3 lemons, rind of 1 or 2 tblsp. cornstarch 

2 c. wine 2 eggs, beaten separately 
I c. sugar 

Boil first 4 ingredients, then add beaten yolks mixed with corn- 
starch and water, and boil a few moments. Add 2 tblsp. of sugar and 

— 200 — 



a pinch of salt to beaten whites, beat well, then drop from spoon into 
boiling water in deep dish, cover dish a moment, then remove the 
islands and put them onto the soup and ser\-c. Instead of cornstarch, 
tapioca or sago may be used. 

OYSTER BISQUE 

1 qt. oysters | c. rice 
1| qts. water 2 c. milk 

2 stalks celery 2 tsp. salt 

2 slices onion f tsp. each Wat kins' ]~)cpper, nutmeg 

2 sprigs parsley 2 egg yolks 

2 cloves 1 c. cream 

1 bay leaf 1 c. canned peas 

Parboil oysters in their own liquor, strain, reserve liquor, and 
chop the oysters. To liquor add water, celery, onion, parsley, cloves, 
bay leaf, oysters, rice, and milk. Bring to boiling point and let sim- 
mer Ij hrs. Press through sieve and add remaining seasonings, then 
yolks beaten with cream, and when boiling point is again reached, peas. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 pt. oysters |- c. butter 

1 qt. scalded milk 

Drain and rinse the oysters; strain the liquor, then heat the oys- 
ters in it until edges curl, remove the scum; then add oysters and 
liquor to the hot milk; add butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

PIMIENTO BISQUE 

3 pts. chicken stock 1 tsp. salt 
I c. rice | c. cream 

4 canned pimientos 2 egg-yolks 

Cook rice in double boiler with stock until tender. Rub pimien- 
tos through a sieve and add to the above. Add salt, and cream 
mi.xed with egg-yolks, slightly beaten. 

POTATO CHOWDER 

5 large potatoes, diced 1 onion, chopped 

J lb. ham, cut into pieces 1 tblsp. parsley, chop])ed 

Soak potatoes in cold water. Fry ham and onion together until 
nicely browned. Drain water from potatoes, then put a layer of 
potato into stewing kettle, then a layer of ham, onion, and parsley, 
and repeat. Cover with cold water, bring to boiling point slowly, 
then cook until potatoes are quite tender, add 1 pt. milk, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Blend 2 tblsp. of flour with 2 tblsp. of melted 
butter and stir into boiling chowder, stir until it boils again, then 
serve at once. 

SOUP STOCK 

Use a round beef bone and veal bone, or 2 lbs. shin of beef, add 
3 qts. cold water, bring to boiling point, then simmer 3 hrs. before 

— 201 — 



adding ^ c. each onion, carrot, celery, and cabbage, diced, | c. tomalo, 
and 1 tsp. chopped parsley. Then cook for another hr. and add salt 
and pepper, also more water if necessary. May be served with vege- 
tables or strained. Rice, noodles, barley, or dumplings may be added 
to the above stock. Keep kettle covered while boiling the soup. 

SWISS SOUP 

1| qts. chicken stock 1 tsp. Wingold flour 

2 egg yolks, beaten light J c. milk 

Beat eggs, flour and milk until smooth. Add slowly to the boil- 
ing hot stock. Avoid a second boiling. Season and serve at once 
with 1 tblsp. whipped cream. 

TOMATO BISQUE 

1 qt. tomatoes 1 onion, chopped 

1 pt. water 1 carrot, chopped 

2 tsp. salt h lemon, cut fine 
2 tblsp. sugar 1 tblsp. butter 

2 bay leaves 3 tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 c. cream 
Cook tomatoes, water, salt, sugar, onion, carrot, bay leaves, and 
lemon for 20 min. Put through colander. Melt butter, add flour, 
then the strained tomato and hot cream. Serve hot with wafers. 
May be served without the cream. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

I c. carrot I onion 

^ c. celery 1 qt. water 

I c. turnip 5 tblsp. butter 

1| c. potatoes ^ tblsp. chopped parsley 

Wash and clean all vegetables and cut into dice, mix all vege- 
tables, except potatoes, and cook 10 min. in butter, stirring constantly, 
add potatoes and water, salt and pepper to taste and boil 1 hr., then 
add parsley and serve. Instead of water and butter, 1 qt. of stock 
may be used. 

WINONA CHOWDER 

1| c. diced raw potatoes 1 c. corn 

1^ c. water 1 c. milk 

I onion, chopped 1 c. cream 

1 c. tomatoes, stewed 1 tsp. salt 

Boil potatoes, onions, salt and water until potatoes are tender. 
Then add tomatoes and corn and boil 5 min. Heat cream and milk 
and add to vegetables just before serving. Serve hot with wafers. 

BANANA FRITTERS 

4 bananas 1 heaping tblsp. Wingold flour 

1 egg 1 tsp. sugar 

— 202 — 



I c. water 5 tsp. melted butter 

Mix the egg yolk with the water, flour, sugar, and butter. Beat 
the white to a stiff froth. Add the mixture to the beaten white. 
Remove skins and cut the bananas lengthwise in halves. Dip the 
halves into the batter, then drop them into hot fat, and fry a golden 
brown. Serve with a custard sauce. See index. 

BREAD CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 or 2 eggs 1 c. milk 

3 tblsp. melted shortening 1 c. Wingold flour 

2 tsp. sugar 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. dry bread crumbs 

Break egg or eggs into a bowl and beat, add all ingredients except 
bread crumbs, and beat smooth with an egg beater. Then add bread 
and enough water or more milk to make of desired consistency. By 
the addition of shortening to the batter, the greasing of the griddle is 
avoided. Do not soak the bread crumbs. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

3 slices of bread 1 c. Wingold flour 

2 c. milk 1 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten light | tsp. salt 

Remove hard crust of bread, then soak the slices of bread in the 
milk, add the eggs, beat well with beater, then the salt, and flour 
sifted with baking powder. 

BROWN SUGAR SYRUP 

Boil 2 c. brown sugar with | c. water to a smooth syrup, then add 
^ tsp. Watkins' vanilla and let it cool. 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 c. buckwheat flour | tsp. salt 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder Ij c. milk and water mixed 

1 tblsp. sugar 

Mix and sift all dry ingredients, add the liquid all at once, beat 
well, then bake. 

EGG PANCAKES 

(German) 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 tsp. salt 

1| c. milk 1^ c. Wingold flour 

Beat all together, folding in whites last. This makes about 3 
pancakes the size of the skillet. Put together with maple sugar or 
jelly between the cakes. 

PLAIN PANCAKES 

2 c. Wingold flour U c. milk 

2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 1 egg, well beaten 

^ tsp. salt 2 tblsp. melted butter 

— 203 — 



Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk and egg mixed, then the 
butter. 

PLUM SNOWBALLS 

Soak large choice prunes over night, remove stones, and put a 
blanched almond into the place of each stone, pressing the opening shut. 
Make a dough of 8 tblsp. flour, 2 eggs, i c. milk, 1 tblsp. sugar, 1 tblsp. 
butter, beat thoroughly, then dip each prune into the dough and fry 
it in hot fat. While warm, roll in mixture of sugar and cinnamon. 

QUICK DUMPLINGS 

1 egg, beaten slightly | tsp. salt 

1 c. milk 1 large tsp. baking powder 

1^ c. Wingold flour 
Sift salt, baking powder and flour together. Add milk to egg, 
beat until well mixed, add flour mixture, then beat again. Drop from 
spoon into stew, cover so as not to let the steam escape, boil 15 min., 
then serve immediately. Good for chicken or veal stew. 

RICE WAFFLES 

1^ c. boiled rice 4 eggs, beaten light 

1 qt. milk 1 tsp. salt 

Smooth the rice with ^ of the milk in double boiler, cool, then add 
the rest of the cold milk and salt; stir in the beaten eggs and enough 
flour to make a thick batter. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 c. Wingold flour 1 tsp. soda 

1 tsp. salt 2 c. sour milk 

2 tblsp. sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

Mix and sift first 3 ingredients, then add milk in which soda has 
been dissolved. Beat well and bake. 

SURPRISE FRITTERS 

Pare apples, cut stem off with round piece of apple, take out the 
core, then cut ofif blossom end without cutting into the core cavity. 
Fill cavity with marmalade, dip stem end into fritter batter, then press 
into place in the apple. Then dip whole apple into fritter batter and 
fry in deep fat for 7 or 8 min. Dust with powdered sugar. 

WAFFLES. No. I 

2 eggs 1^ c. milk 

1 tblsp. sugar 2 c. Wingold flour 

1 tblsp. melted butter 2 tsp. Calumet baking powder 

^ tsp. salt 

Separate the eggs, placing whites into a bowl; beat very stifif with 
rotary beater, then add yolks and beat again. Then add the other 
materials and mix well, using the beater to make the batter smooth. 

— 204 — 



Cook in well-greased hot waffle irons, allowing about 1 tblsp. to each 
section of the iron. 

WAFFLES. No. II 

If c. Wingold flour 2 eggs, well beaten 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder f c. milk 

2 tblsp. sugar 3 tblsp. melted butter 
1 tsp. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add eggs, milk, and melted butter, 
then combine the two. 

WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 c. whole wheat flour 1 egg, beaten light 

1 c. Wingold flour 3 tblsp. sugar 

3 tsp. Calumet baking powder Ij c. milk 

I tsp. salt 1 tblsp. melted butter 

Mix and sift dry materials. Add milk to egg, then pour slowly 
into flour mixture, beating thoroughly, and add butter. Drop by 
spoonfuls onto a hot well greased griddle. Brown on one side, then 
turn and brown on the other. 



Vegetables 



BAKED BEANS 

6 c. white beans 3 tblsp. molasses 

About 1 lb. salt pork 1 pt. tomatoes 

1 slice bacon 1 in. thick. f c. brown sugar 

Soak beans in cold water over night. Drain, cover with cold 
water, bring to a boil with pork and bacon, skim, add other ingredi- 
ents, salt and pepper to taste, then put into a gallon jar and bake 
from 9 to 10 hrs. 

BAKED BEANS— BOSTON 

1 qt. navy beans 1 tblsp. molasses 

^ lb. fat salt jjork 3 tblsp. sugar 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. mustard 

1 onion, cut fine 1 c. boiling water 

Wash, pick over, and soak the beans overnight.' Drain in morn- 
ing, cover with fresh cold water, and bring to a boil. Drain again. 
Scald and scrape the rind of the pork, cut off^ one slice, and put into 
the bottom of the bean-pot. Fill the pot with the beans, burying 
the pork in it and also the sliced onion. Mix the salt, molasses, sugar, 
mustard, and boiling water and pour over the beans. Add more 
boiling water to fill the pot. Cover the bean-pot and bake in slow 
oven for 6 or 8 hrs., adding boiling water as needed. During the last 
hour remove lid to brown the top. 

— 205 — 



BAKED CABBAGE 

2 c. hot boiled cabbage, chopped 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 tblsp. butter, melted 2 c. milk 

Mix thoroughly, turn into buttered baking dish, and bake ^ hr. 

BAKED ONIONS 

White onions, boiled. Place into baking dish and cover with cream 
sauce, made of butter, Wingold flour, and milk, seasoned with salt, 
and Watkins' pepper. Put cracker crumbs on top and bake 20 min. 

BAKED ONIONS— WHOLE 

Select even sized onions, peel, and cut a hollow into the top of 
each onion. Place a piece of butter into the hollow, add salt and 
pepper, then place onions into a shallow dish with mild salt water and 
bake 1 hr. in medium oven. 

BAKED SQUASH 

Put a whole squash, washed and wiped, into the oven and bake 
until tender, then cut in two, remove seeds and fibers, scrape out the 
flesh with a tablespoon, mash, then mix with butter, cream, salt and 
pepper to taste. Beat light with an egg beater, then serve. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER 

Separate flowerets of a fresh white head of cauliflower. Soak in 
mild salt water about 15 min., then cook tender in boiling salt water, 
and drain. Serve hot with a thin white sauce to which a little 
nutmeg has been added, or plain browned butter, or fine bread crumbs 
browned in hot butter. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES— BAKED 

4 sweet potatoes 1 tblsp. water 

I c. butter 1 tblsp. lemon juice 

J c. brown sugar 

Boil, skin, and quarter the sweet potatoes. Put into baking dish, 
spread with the soft butter, cover with brown sugar, sprinkle with 
the water and lemon juice mixed. Brown in oven and serve hot. 

CANNED CORN 

9 large ears of corn 1 c. water 

1 c. sugar i c. salt 

Cut corn from cob, add sugar, salt, and water; cook slowly 20 
min., then fill into jars and seal. When ready to serve, pour luke warm 
water onto the corn and let stand 15 min., drain, then add enough fresh 
water to cover corn and boil. Add milk and butter to taste and serve 
hot. 

CARROTS 

Scrape carrots, cut into small pieces and boil tender in salt water, 
then drain. Brown bread crumbs in butter in a frying pan, add the 
carrots, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, mix thoroughly 
and serve. 

— 206 — 



CARROTS AND PEAS 

Cook separately until tender diced carrots and green peas in 
salted water. Drain, mix, and reheat in browned butter and cracker 
or bread crumbs. Season with salt and pepper. 

CARROT FRITTERS 

2 large boiled carrots, mashed 2 tblsp. cream or milk 

2 eggs, well beaten § tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour 1 tsp. sugar 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly, then drop by spoonfuls into boil- 
ing lard. When done and a delicate brown, drain, sprinkle over them 
the juice of an orange, dust with powdered sugar, then serve. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CHEESE 

Break up a head of cauliflower, boil in mild salt water, drain, 
then put into a baking dish in layers with white sauce and cheese. 
Put a mixture of bread crumbs and cheese on top, then brown in 
the oven. 

CORN CHOWDER 

2 tblsp. butter 1 qt. potato cubes 

2 sliced onions 1 can corn 
1 qt. water, hot 1 qt. milk 

Smother onions in butter; add water and potato; cook until 
potatoes are done; add corn and milk; season with salt, pinch of 
sugar, and Watkins' pepper. Bring to a boil and pour over split 
crackers. 

CORN FRITTERS. No. I 

1 can corn 1 tsp. salt 

4 soda crackers, rolled | tsp. pepper 

3 eggs, beaten separately 

Mix corn, crackers, yolks, salt, and pepper, adding the whites 
last, just before frying. Fry like pancakes. 

CORN FRITTERS. No. II 

1 can corn , 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. milk Watkins' pepper to taste 

1 c. Wingold flour 3 eggs, beaten separately 

Mix in order given, adding beaten whites last. Fry in hot lard. 

CORN OYSTERS 

1 pt. corn 1 tblsp. milk 

1 tsp. butter Salt and Watkins' pepper to taste 

Mix thoroughly and boil up well. Cool and then add: 
2 eggs, well beaten 1 c. cracker crumbs 

Mix well and drop from spoon into frying pan, containing very 
hot lard. Brown both sides. 

— 207 — 



CORN PUDDING 

1 doz. ears of corn 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 c. milk 1 tblsp. butter 

Cut corn from cobs, using back of knife to push out the juice and 
small kernels. Stir all ingredients together, season with salt and 
pepper, then bake 1 hr. 

DELICATESSEN POTATOES 

Crumble 10 baked potatoes while warm before taking out of the 
shells. Make a cream sauce, using 4 tblsp. of flour, 3 tblsp. of melted 
butter, and milk enough to make a thick sauce, seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Put a layer of potatoes into a baking dish, then a layer 
of cream sauce and repeat, than bake until the cream sauce on top 
browns. Brown 4 tblsp. of toasted bread crumbs in 2 tblsp. of browned 
butter, spread over the browned potatoes, then serve. Potatoes in 
this recipe should be baked and cream sauce very thick to make it a 
success. 

DELICIOUS SPAGHETTI 

Cut several slices of bacon into small pieces, fry a delicate brown; 
slowly smother a chopped onion in the bacon fat, add spaghetti or 
macaroni, boiled in salted water, and a can of tomato soup. Season 
with salt and pepper, mix thoroughly, then bring to a boil and serve. 

DELMONICO POTATOES 

2 c. cubed boiled potatoes | c. rich white sauce 

I c. mild grated cheese Buttered bread crumbs 

Put alternate layers of potatoes, white sauce and cheese into a 
buttered baking dish, cover with crumbs, then bake in oven until 
crumbs are browned. 

DUMPLINGS WITH ASPARAGUS 

Add 1 tblsp. melted butter to 2 eggs beaten very light, add f c. 
farina, mix thoroughly, then drop from spoon into the boiling broth 
in which asparagus had been boiled. Boil until thoroughly done, then 
serve with the asparagus, and a sauce made of butter, flour, egg, and 
asparagus broth. 

FRIED CARROTS 

Cut boiled carrots into long thin strips. Fry in equal parts of 
butter and drippings, seasoning with sugar, pepper, and salt. When 
brown sprinkle with minced parsley and serve.' 

FRIED TOMATOES 

Cut tomatoes, not too ripe, into thick slices, dredge well with 
flour, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Brown on 
both sides in hot butter. Green tomatoes may be fried in the same 
way. 

GERMAN SPINACH 

1 pk. spinach i tsp. salt 

2 tblsp. butter i tsp. Watkins' pepper and 
1 small onion, chopped nutmeg 

— 208 — 



^ c. crumbled wheat bread 1 c. stock or hot water 

Wash and clean spinach thoroughly; then boil in mild salt water, 
press the water entirely out of it, and chop fine. Brown the butter in 
a spider, add the onions and brown, then the bread and the season- 
ing, and gradually the soup stock or hot water, then the spinach. 
Simmer about 15 min., then serve with slices of hard boiled eggs on 
top. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut boiled skinned sweet potatoes lengthwise into halves, put 
into a buttered pan, sprinkle lightly with salt, then spread each half 
with a mixture of | c. brown sugar and 3 tblsp. creamed butter. 
Bake 15 min., then serve hot. 

GREEN CORN OYSTERS 

1 pt. grated corn ^ c. Wingold flour 

2 eggs, well beaten | tsp. baking powder 
I c. cream Salt and pepper 

Mix in the order given, sifting flour and baking powder together. 
Fry in butter, dropping the batter in spoonfuls. 

HOT BEETS WITH DRESSING 

1 tblsp. melted butter 1 tsp. Wingold flour 

2 tblsp. sugar 1 c. vinegar and water mixed 

Add flour to butter, then add sugar and vinegar. Boil until 
smooth, then pour hot over hot sliced beets. 

HOW TO CAN STRING BEANS 

Wash and string the beans, break into small pieces, salt thor- 
oughly, let stand over night. In morning drain off the brine, pack 
into 1 or 2 qt. mason jars, packing down as tight as possible, cover 
the top with a layer of salt, then fill the jar with clear cold water. 
Seal tightly. These beans will keep all winter. When ready to use, 
soak over night in clear water. Drain in morning then prepare in 
any desired way. 

INDIAN CORN 

4 slices bacon Salt 

1 can corn Pepper 

Cut the bacon into dice and fry a golden brown. Add the corn 
and the seasoning to the bacon dice and fat. Mix thoroughly and 
serve hot. A good dish for picnics. 

ITALIAN MACARONI 

f c. broken macaroni | c. cheese 

2 qts. boiling salt water ^ c. cracker crumbs 
^ onion I c. butter, melted 

Cook macaroni and onion in boiling salt water. Drain, remove 
onion, then pour cold water over macaroni, drain again. Make a 
tomato sauce of 1 c. tomatoes, 2 tblsp. butter, 2 tblsp. flour, salt and 
pepper. Butter a baking dish, then arrange in layers the macaroni, 
cheese, and tomato sauce. Mix the crumbs and melted butter and 
put over the top. Bake slowly till crumbs are brown. 

— 209 — 



KOHLRABI 

Wash, peel, and cut Kohlrabi into eighths, then cut each eighth 
into slices crosswise and cook in salt water until tender. Cook the 
greens of the tender leaves in separate pan until tender, drain, and 
chop. Blend a large tblsp. of flour and a large tblsp. of melted butter, 
add the greens, then enough of the Kohlrabi liquor to make 
enough sauce to cover Kohlrabi; season with salt, a little sugar, 
and nutmeg or pepper and cook a few minutes, then serve. Milk 
may be used in place of Kohlrabi liquor. 

LENTILS 

Soak lentils over night. Smother a chopped onion in butter, 
add drained lentils, apiece of ham or a ham bone and water. Season 
with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Boil until lentils are soft 
and gravy is boiled down to a rather thick sauce. Remove meat or 
bone, then serve hot. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

2 c. diced boiled potatoes 1 tblsp. onion, chopped 
^ tsp. salt 2 tblsp. butter 

I tsp. Watkins' pepper 1 large tblsp. chopped parsley 

Fry onion in butter until light brown, add potatoes, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, stir with fork until butter is absorbed. Potatoes 
should not be browned. Add parsley, then serve. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Boil pared potatoes, mash and stir them smooth with a fork, salt, 
and add a piece of unmelted butter, then add cream or milk and beat 
fluffy with an egg beater. 

MILCH KRAUT 

(Cabbage) 
1 head cabbage 2 onions 

3 slices of bread 3 c. milk 

Clean and quarter cabbage, cook in salt water until tender, pour 
off water, squeeze remaining water from cabbage, with the hands. 
Cut bread into cubes and fry in ample lard or butter until a delicate 
brown. Put cabbage, onions, and bread into chopping bowl and 
chop very fine. Mix with milk and season with salt and pepper. 
Mix thoroughly, then put into casserole, place cubes of butter on top 
and bake ^ hr. in a moderate oven. 

NOODLES 

Beat 1 egg slightly, add j tsp. salt, and enough flour to make a 
stiff dough, about f c. Knead on floured board until smooth and 
elastic. Cut dough into three parts, roll each part thin as a wafer, 
then set aside to dry for an hr. or more. It must not be the least bit 
sticky and not so dry that it will break. Fold each piece into a tight 
roll, cut crosswise into very fine strips or threads. Toss them up 
lightly with the fingers to separate well, then spread them out to dry. 

— 210 — 



Cook in boiling salted water about 10 min. Drain, then serve 
as a vegetable with browned crumbs and butter. These noodles 
may also be used for noodle soup. Drop them by handfuls into the 
boiling soup 10 min. before serving. If put into covered jars these 
noodles may be kept for future use. 

ORMOLO POTATO 

6 large onions, boiled and chopped 1 c. milk 
9 large potatoes, boiled and mashed 1 tblsp. Wingold flour 
2 eggs, well beaten Salt 

1 tblsp. butter Watkins' pepper and nutmeg to 

taste 
Mix in order given; turn into well buttered ]:)an and bake 40 min. 

PARSNIPS 

Cook washed parsnips in boiling salt water until tender, drain, 
plunge into cold water, and take off skins. Cut into slices lengthwise, 
dip into fine cracker crumbs, and fry brown in butter. 

POTATO BALLS 

Select large potatoes, wash, pare, and soak in cold water. Shape 
into balls with French vegetable cutter. Cook in boiling salted water 
until soft, drain, add 1 tblsp. butter, melted, shake and serve imme- 
diately with chopped parsley. For creamed potato balls add 1 c. 
thin white sauce instead of butter and sprinkle with paprika and 
finely chopped parsley. 

POTATO BALLS— BROWNED 

Cut raw potatoes into balls with French vegetable cutter. Boil 
them in stock seasoned with onion, until quite tender, then put them 
into a shallow baking pan with enough melted butter to brown them 
nicely in a hot oven. Sprinkle with finely chop]>ed ])arsley before 
serving. Small new potatoes may be prepared in the same way. 

POTATO BALLS— FRENCH FRIED 

Prepare raw potatoes as above, dry thoroughly^ place into basket 
and plunge into hot fat, cook till done and brown, shake basket and 
place potatoes onto paper to drain, sprinkle with salt, then serve at 
once. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

1 pt. hot mashed potatoes 1 tsp. onion juice or pulp 

1 tsp. salt 1 tblsp. chopped parsley 

J tsp, Watkins' pepper 1 tblsp. butter 

2 eggs, well beaten 
Mix thoroughly, beat well over fire until mixture leaves sides of 
pan. Cool, shape into croquettes, dip into egg, roll in crumbs, and fry 
brown in deep kettle of hot lard. 

— 211 — 



POTATO DUMPLINGS 

1 qt. grated potatoes 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 large tsp. salt Flour enough to form balls 

Mix potato, salt, eggs, a little nutmeg, and flour thoroughly. 
Shape into balls, placing into the center of each ball, a portion of 1 c. 
diced bread, browned in butter. Cook in boiling salt water 20 
min. Place onto platter and_cover with browned butter. 

POTATO PANCAKES. No. I 

8 c. grated raw potatoes, drained, and mixed thoroughly with 3 
well beaten eggs, add salt to taste. Fry in hot lard. 

POTATO PANCAKES. No. II 

1 qt. potato pulp I c. Wingold flour 

2 eggs, well beaten Salt to taste 

Mix above ingredients very thoroughly. Drop a large spoonful 
of batter into a spider of hot lard, pressing it down, so as not to make 
the cakes too thick. Bake a golden brown. 

POTATO PUFF 

3 c. mashed potato 3 tblsp. milk 

2 eggs, beaten separately Salt and Watkins' pepper to taste 

2 tblsp. butter 

Mix the above, using egg-yolks. Stir over fire until very hot; 
remove and beat well; fold in egg-whites; brown in quick oven. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. No. I 

1 c. riced potatoes 2 tblsp. butter 
^ c. hot milk 1 tsp. salt 

2 eggs, beaten separately I tsp. Watkins' pepper 

Mix thoroughly yolks, milk, butter, potato, and seasonings, fold 
in beaten whites, add ^ tsp. chopped parsley, and bake in buttered 
dish until firm and brown. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. No. II 

1 c. mashed potatoes 1 egg, beaten separately 

2 tblsp. cream Salt to season 

Beat yolk of egg, add the cream and salt, and mix with the pota- 
toes, beating well; then add beaten whites and whip thoroughly. 
Put into buttered baking pan, bake in moderate oven from 20 to 30 
min. May also be put into individual baking dishes. Eat while hot. 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE 

2 c. cream sauce 3 c. diced boiled potatoes 

I c. grated cheese Salt and Watkins' pepper or 

paprika to season. 
Add the cheese to the hot cream sauce. When the cheese is 
melted, add the potatoes and seasoning. Put into baking dish and 
bake in slow oven about 20 min. 

— 212 — 



RED CABBAGE 

Cut 1 small red cabbage very fine. Melt and heat 1 large 
tblsp. of lard in a deep kettle, add the cabbage, and salt, smother 
slowly about 15 min. Then add 1 apple, pared and cut into dice, 1 
glass of wine, a little water, salt, sugar, and pei)per to taste. Boil 
slowly until very tender. White cabbage may be used in the same 
way, using vinegar instead of wine. 

RICE CROQUETTES AND PATTIES 

1| c. warm boiled rice 1 tblsp. sugar 

1 egg, well beaten 1 tblsp. butter 

Pinch of salt 
Mix the above and mold into little nests or regular croquettes- 
Dip into egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. If little nests are made) 
by denting patties with the thumb, place a piece of jelly into each 
little nest before serving. If used as a dessert, add ^ c. sugar, 1 tsp. 
Watkins' vanilla before molding. Then mold into thick patties, make 
a hole into each, fill with preserved fruit, close with rice, dip into egg 
and cracker, and fry. Serve with fruit sauce. 

RUTABAGAS 

Peel and slice the rutabagas, boil together with well seasoned 
spare ribs until done. Serve in the meat gravy, or drain the ruta- 
bagas, then mash, season with salt, pepper, sugar, and butter. Serve 
hot. Brown the ribs in butter. 

SARATOGA CHIPS AND FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Cut pared potatoes into very thin slices, and keep in cold water 
several hrs. or over night to take out the starch. Drain off the water, 
rub the potatoes between napkins until thoroughly dry, then throw 
a handful at a time into very hot lard, stirring constantly with a fork. 
When light brown and crisp, remove quickly with a skimmer, and 
sprinkle with salt. Potatoes for French Fried should be cut into 
thick slices, then cut into bars about the size of a little finger. Follow 
same directions as for Saratoga Chips. 

SAVORY RICE 

1 c. rice 1 c. chopped celery 

1 qt. tomatoes ^ c. chopped olives 

2 tsp. salt 1 tblsp. grated onion 

Cook tomatoes, celery, and salt for 10 min., add the rice, well 
washed, and the other ingredients, and boil 5 min. Place into double 
boiler and cook an hour. 

SCALLOPED APPLES 

3 c. apples cut in eighths | lemon, juice and rind 
I c. sugar 2 c. soft bread cruml)s 

— 213 — 



J tsp. Watkins' cinnamon 2 tblsp. butter 

J tsp. Watkins' nutmeg j tsp. salt 

J c. water 

Melt butter in dish over hot water, add crumbs and salt; mix with 
fork. Place | of crumb mixture onto bottom of buttered baking dish, 
then half the apples, sugar, spices, lemon, and water; then another 3 
of crumbs and remaining apples and other ingredients. Put remain- 
der of crumbs on top. Bake 1^ hrs. in moderate oven. 

SCALLOPED CORN 

1 can corn § c. melted butter 

^ c. milk 1 tsp. salt 

1| c. cracker crumbs | tsp. Watkins' pepper 

Melt butter, add crumbs, salt, and pepper.- Place | of crumb mix- 
ture onto bottom of buttered baking dish, then half of corn; then an- 
other I of crumbs and the other half of the corn. Put remainder of 
crumbs on top. Pour the milk over all, adding a little more if half a 
cup is not enough to cover. Bake 45 min. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS 

Boil onions in salted water until tender, drain, put into a baking 
dish a layer of bread crumbs, and a layer of onions, alternately, until 
dish is full, then season with salt, pepper, butter, and cover with milk. 
Bake | hr. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

1 qt. sliced cold potatoes 1 tblsp. chopped parsley 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. thin white sauce 

1 tsp. Watkins' pepper 1 c. buttered bread crumbs 

Put potatoes, seasoned with salt, pepper, and parsley, into a but- 
tered baking dish, cover with the sauce, then with the crumbs. Bake 
until well browned. 

SPATZEN 

(Small Dumplings) 

To every 2 c. flour, use 1 egg, a pinch of salt and enough water 
to make a stiff batter in a shallow dish; let it run over the edge, then 
dip a knife into boiling salt water in which the dumplings are to be 
boiled, and cut off the dough in small pieces, letting them drop into 
the boiling water. When the dumplings rise to the top of the water, 
they are done. Skim out into serving dish. Brown 2 tblsp. of butter 
in a spider, add 2 tblsp. bread crumbs, fry brown, then pour over 
dumplings and serve. A good dish to eat with sour meats or Sauer- 
kraut. 

SPINACH BALLS 

2 tblsp. butter 1 tblsp. cream 

2 tblsp. Wingold flour f c. cooked spinach, pressed dry 

1 tsp. sugar 2 eggs 

— 214 — 



Blend flour with melted butter, add sugar, cream, and chopped 
spinach, beat well until thoroughly heated, remove from fire, add 
eggs, one at a time, season with salt and pepper. Form into flat 
round pieces, place into buttered egg poacher and cook until firm, 
about 4 or 5 min. Serve with cream sauce, containing egg and 
chopped parsley. 

SPINACH VEGETABLE PUDDING 

(Delicious) 

1^ c. boiled spinach, pressed dry 8 eggs, beaten separately 

1 c. chopped veal 1 small onion, chopped 

2 large biscuits or Semmel 1 large tblsp. butter 

Chop the spinach fine; soak the biscuits, then press out all mois- 
ture. Melt a piece of butter in frying pan, add onion, spinach, some 
chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt and smother for a few 
moments. Cream the tblsp. of butter, add beaten yolks, the biscuits, 
chopped veal and smothered spinach. Fold in beaten whites last. 
Dip a napkin into boiling water, then place the pudding into the 
napkin, tie up loosely, and boil in a deep kettle of boiling salt water 
for at least one hr. Serve with cream sauce, to which some chopped 
parsley has been added. 

STRING BEANS AND TOMATOES 

1 qt. broken beans 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. strained tomatoes 1 tsp. sugar 

2 tblsp. butter, melted I tsp. Watkins' pepper 
2 tblsp. Wingold flour 

String beans carefully before breaking into pieces, then cook 
tender in 1 qt. of boiling water, mixed with 1 tsp. salt. Blend flour 
with butter, add seasonings, and tomato liquor, cook until smooth 
and thick, then pour the sauce over the drained beans, adding h c. of 
the bean liquid, simmer I hr., then serve hot. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

1 large cabbage boiled till nearly tender in salted water. Drain, 
cool, and remove center. Prepare stuffing of minced cold meat, 
seasoning with chopped ham or bacon, grated lemon rind, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt, and 1 egg. Fill the cabbage, tie into shape with 
string, and bake for 20 min., basting with butter. It should not be 
allowed to brown. 

STUFFED CABBAGE WITH RICE 

1 head cabbage 1 tblsp. grated onion 

I c. rice 1 tblsp. minced parsley 

^ lb. sausage meat 

Soak cabbage head in boiling water 45 min., changing water once. 
Drain. Remove center of cabbage. Wash rice thoroughly and mi.x 
with other ingredients. Fill the cabbage with this stulTing. Tie 
firmly into cheese cloth, cover with boiling salted water and cook 3 
hrs. Serve hot with white sauce. (See index.) 

— 215 — 



STUFFED POTATO 

Bake large, smooth potatoes, cut lengthwise in half, scrape out 
inside, leaving the skins whole. Add melted butter, cream, or milk 
to potato pulp, season with salt and pepper, and beat to a cream. 
Fill the shell with this mixture, spread with beaten egg white, sprinkle 
slightly with salt, then bake until potatoes are puffed and brown. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 medium tomatoes | tsp. Watkins' pepper 

1 c. bread crumbs 3 tsp. chopped green pepper 

6 tblsp. celery, chopped 3 tblsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt 

Wash tomatoes, cut a thin slice from stem end, take out seeds 
and pulp, and drain off the liquid. Use liquid and pulp, not seeds, 
and mix with crumbs and other ingredients. Refill the tomatoes with 
this mixture, cover top with buttered crumbs, and bake in hot oven 
for 15 min. or until the skin wrinkles. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 c. hot sweet potato, riced h tsp. salt 

3 tblsp, butter 1 beaten egg 

Shape into croquettes, adding a pinch of pepper, dip into crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs again, fry in deep hot fat, and drain. If potatoes are 
very dry, add hot milk to moisten. 

TURNIPS 

Peel and slice the turnips, boil together with well seasoned lamb 
until the lamb is tender. Serve in the lamb gravy, or drain the tur- 
nips, then mash, season with salt, pepper, and butter. Serve at once. 
Brown the lamb in butter. 

WARM BEETS OR PEAS 

Wash and cook the beets until the skin has loosened from the 
beets. Drain, drop the beets into cold water, then remove the skins 
and cut beets into dice. Brown bread or cracker crumbs in butter, 
then mix with the beets, season with salt and pepper. Canned or 
fresh peas may be prepared in the same way, drain off the juice, then 
heat in browned crumbs and butter, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

WAX BEANS AND BACON 

Cut J lb. of sliced bacon into small pieces, fry a delicate brown, 
slowly smother a chopped onion in the bacon fat, then add 1 lb. of 
broken wax beans, and water enough to boil. Season with salt, a 
little sugar, and pepper, then boil until tender. Thicken the gravy 
with flour paste, then serve. 

WILD RICE 

1 c. wild rice j c. butter 

2 c. water Salt to taste 

Wash rice and put into double boiler, add water, butter, and salt. 
Cook about 1| hrs., serve as a vegetable or with any kind of game. 

— 216 — 



TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS 

tsp. — teaspoonful qt. — quart pkg. — package 

tblsp. — tablespoonful gal. — ^gallon min. — minute 

c. — cupful oz. — ounce hr. — hour 

pt. — pint lb. — pound sq. — square 

pk. — peck 

IMPORTANT EQUIVALENTS TO MEMORIZE 

1 quart flour (about) is equivalent to 1 pound avoirdupois 
1 pint sugar (about) is equivalent to 1 pound avoirdupois 
1 pint butter (about) is equivalent to 1 pound avoirdupois 
1 quart is equivalent to 4 cups, liquid measure 
1 pint is equivalent to 2 cups, liquid measure 
I pint is equivalent to 1 cup, liquid measure 

1 cup is equivalent to 2 gills 

2 gills are equivalent to 8 fluid ounces 

16 level tablespoons are equivalent to 1 cup liquid measure 
12 level tablespoons are equivalent to 1 c. dry measure 

8 level tablespoons are equivalent to | cup liquid measure 
4 level tablespoons are equivalent to I cup liquid measure 

1 level tablespoon is equivalent to 3 level teaspoonfuls 

2 level tablespoons sugar are equivalent to 1 ounce avoirdupois 
2 level tablespoons butter are equivalent to 1 ounce avoirdupois 

4 level tablespoons cocoa or flour are equivalent to 1 ounce avoirdupois 

2 level tablespoons liquid are equivalent to 1 ounce avoirdupois 

3 level teaspoons are equivalent to 1 tablespoonful 

2 level teaspoons are equivalent to 1 dessertspoonful 

1 square of chocolate is equivalent to 1 ounce of chocolate 

1 square of grated chocolate is equivalent to 4 level tblsp. of chocolate 

9 or 10 eggs, depending upon size, are equivalent to 1 pound 
Juice of 1 lemon is equivalent to about 4 tablespoons 

1 cup of egg white is equivalent to about 8 egg whites 
1 cup of egg yolk is equivalent to about 12 egg yolks 
1 cup of shelled nuts is equivalent to about 4 ounces. 
Measures are always level unless, otherwise stated. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MEASURING 

Dip the spoon into the materials and strike off with straight edge 
of a knife. 

In measuring butter, lard or margarine, pack the cup or spoon 
closely and strike off with the straight edge of a knife. 

In measuring flour in the cup measure, tap the measure lightly 
to insure of no unfilled spaces. 

To measure ^ teaspoon divide a level teaspoonful lengthwise. 

To measure I teaspoon divide the half teaspoon once crosswise. 

A heaping measure, whether spoonful or cupful, means all the 
measure will hold. 

A teaspoon dipped full and drawn under the side of the can of 
CALUMET gives ])ractically a teaspoon and a half. This is a quick 
method to measure the one and one-half teaspoon to each cuj) of 
flour in making breads, biscuit, muffins, etc. 

— 217 — 



INDEX 



ABBREVIATIONS 217 

BISCUITS 10-11 

BREADS, ROLLS, BISCUITS 3-15 

Boston Brown Bread 3 

Bran Bread 3 

Graham Bread 3 

Graham Bread 3 

Nut Bread 4 

Nut Bread 4 

Oatmeal Bread 4 

Oatmeal Nut Bread , . . . 4 

Raisin Bread ; . . . 5 

Rye Bread 5 

Steamed Boston Brown Bread 5 

White Bread 5 

White Bread 6 

Whole Wheat Bread C 

Berliner Buns 7 

Currant Buns 7 

German Hot Cross Buns 7 

Cocoa Rolls 7 

Just Rolls 8 

Maple Rolls 8 

Our Rolls 8 

Parker House Rolls 9 

Pocketbook Rolls 9 

Rolls 9 

Three-In-One Rolls 10 

Baking Powder Biscuits 10 

Buttermilk Biscuits 10 

Cream Cheese Biscuits 10 

Fruit Biscuits 10 

Potato Biscuits 11 

Premium Biscuits 11 

Quick Baking Powder Biscuits 11 

Short Cake Biscuit 11 

Twin Biscuits 11 

Berry Muffins 12 

Blueberry Muffins 12 

Cocoa Muifins 12 

Dainty Muffins 12 

Graham Muffins 12 

Muffins 13 

Oatmeal Muffins 13 

Old Time Muffins 13 

. Plain Muffins 13 

Cornmeal Gems 13 

Delicious Graham Gems 13 

Graham Gems 14 

Nut Gems 14 

Rice Gems 14 

Spice Gems 14 

Whole Wheat Gems 14 

Johnny Cake 14 

Popovers 15 

Plain Ginger Bread 15 

Kindergarten Ginger Bread 15 

German Toast 15 

Cream Toast 15 

Eggs A La Goldenrod 15 

CAKES 16-101 

Some Hints for Cake Baking 16 

GOODIES FOR CHRISTMAS 17-34 

Almond Bread 17 

Almond Crescents 17 

Almond Cuts 17 

Almond Date Puffs 17 

Almond Drops IS 

Almond Macaroons IS 

Almond Squares IS 

Almond Stars IS 

Almond Sticks IS 

Almond Strips 19 

Almond Wafers 19 

Anise Drops 19 

Anise Sticks 19 

Biscuit Tarts 19 

Bishop's Bread 20 

Brownies 20 

Brown Peppernuts 20 

Cakes In Form Of An S 20 

Celestial Food 21 



Page 

Chocolate Almond Macaroons 21 

Chocolate Almond Puffs 21 

Chocolate Almond Shells 21 

Chocolate Bars 21 

Chocolate Broetchen 22 

Chocolate Kisses 22 

Chocolate Macaroons 22 

Chocolate Puffs 22 

Chocolate Rocks 22 

Chocolate Shells 23 

Chocolate Spice Macaroons 23 

Chocolate Strips 23 

Christmas Cookies 23 

Christmas Joys 23 

Cocoanut Puffs 24 

Cocoanut Wafers 24 

Daenisch Gebaeck 24 

Date Goodies 24 

Date Sticks 25 

Delicious Tarts 25 

Egg Cakes 25 

Egg Kringel 25 

Egg Rings 26 

Eier Plaetzchen 26 

Eigelb Gebaeck 26 

Elisen Lebkuchen 26 

Farina Drops 27 

Farina Macaroons 27 

Goetter Speise 27 

Holly Wreaths 27 

Lebkuchen 27 

Macaroons 28 

Mandelberge 28 

Mandelkraenze 28 

Mandelnuesse 28 

Mandelplaetzchen 28 

Mandelschnitten 29 

Meringue Tarts 29 

Milan Slices 29 

Mocha Cakes 29 

New Macaroons 30 

Nuernberger Lebkuchen 30 

Nut Kisses 30 

Our Cocoanut Cakes 30 

Our Honey Cakes 31 

Pecan Macaroons 31 

Pepper Balls 31 

Pepper Nuts 31 

Sandplaettchen 32 

Sand Tarts 32 

S Gebaeck 32 

Snow Balls < 32 

Springerle 33 

White Peppernuts 33 

Yellow Peppernuts 34 

Zimmetsterne 34 

LAYER CAKES 34-48 

Almond Cream Cake 34 

A No. I Cake 34 

Apple Jelly Cake 35 

Banana Cake 35 

Burnt Sugar Cake 35 

Caramel Cake 35 

Cheap Cake 36 

Chocolate Cake 36 

Chocolate Cream Cake 30 

Chocolale Nut Cake 30 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 37 

Cocoa Cake 37 

Cocoanut Chocolate Cake 37 

Coffee Cake 37 

Common Layer Cake 37 

Cream Sponge Cake 38 

Custard Cake 38 

Delicious Crumb Cake 38 

Delicious Molasses Cake 38 

Dessert Cake 39 

Devil's Food 39 

Easter Nest Cake 39 

Everyday Cake 40 

Farina Cake 40 

Feather Cake 40 

Fig Cake 40 



PuRe 

Fig Filled Cake 40 

Filled Apple Cake 41 

• Hickory Nut Cake 41 

Ice Cream Cake 41 

Jelly Roll 41 

Lady Baltimore Cake 41 

Lemon Cake 42 

Lemon Butter Cake 42 

Lemon Cream Cake 43 

Lord Baltimore Cake 43 

Maple Sugar Cake 43 

Marshmallow Cake 43 

Minnehaha Cake 44 

Molasses Cake 44 

Neapolitan Cake 44 

Opera Caramel Cake 44 

Orange Cake 44 

Poppyseed Cake 45 

Potato Cake 45 

Raspberry Cake 45 

Sand Torte Layer Cake 46 

Satan's F'ood 40 

Silver Cake 4H 

Sour Cream Cake 4() 

Sour Cream Chocolate Cake 4() 

Spanish Bun Cake 47 

Spice Cake 47 

Sponge Cake 47 

Sweet Cream Cake 47 

Tilden Cake 47 

Tip-Top Cake 4S 

White Cake 48 

LOAF AND FLAT CAKES 48-66 

Almond Cake 48 

Angel Food No. 1 48 

Angel Food No. 2 48 

Apple Sauce Cake 49 

Black Chocolate Cake 49 

Blueberry Cake 49 

Boiled Sunshine Cake 49 

Bread Cake 49 

Bride's Cake 50 

Cheap Date Cake 50 

Cheap Sponge Cake 50 

Cherry Cake 50 

Chocolate Cocoanut Cake 51 

Chocolate Marshmallow Cake 51 

Chocolate Potato Cake 51 

Club Cake 51 

Cocoa Cake 51 

Cocoanut Pound Cake 52 

Coffee Cake 52 

Coffee Chocolate Cake 52 

Coffee Fruit Cake 52 

Cream Cake 52 

Cream Sponge Cake 53 

Dark Chocolate Cake 53 

Date Loaf 53 

Delicious Egg Cake 53 

Delicious Sponge Cake 53 

Devil's Food 54 

Dutch Apple Cake 54 

Egg Almond Cake 54 

Eggless Fruit Cake 55 

Excellent Fruit Cake 55 

Favorite Fruit Cake 55 

Feather Gingerbread 56 

Fisher Velvet Cake 56 

Fruit Cake 56 

Fudge Cake 56 

German Potato Cake 56 

Ginger Sponge Cake 57 

Gold Cake 57 

Graham Cake 57 

Hot Blueberry Cake 58 

Hot Water Sponge Cake 58 

Jelly Roll 58 

Lightning Cake 58 

Loaf Cake 58 

Loaf Fig Cake 59 

Lorena's Cake 59 

Maple Ginger Cake 59 

Marble Cake 59 

Mock Angel Food 60 



Page 

Monitou Black Cake 60 

Nut Cake 60 

Nut Loaf Cake 60 

Nut Mocha Cake 60 

Nut Sponge Cake 61 

Old Fashioned Pound Cake 61 

Orange Cake 61 

Plain Cake 61 

Plain Feather Cake 61 

Potato Cake 61 

Pork Cake 62 

President's Wedding Cake 62 

Prune Cake 62 

Quick Cake 62 

Raspberry Cake 63 

Sailor's Cake 63 

Snow Cake 63 

Snow- White Cake 63 

Sour M ilk Cake 63 

Spanish Bun 64 

Spice Cake 64 

Spice Chocolate Cake 64 

Star Cake 64 

Steamed Fruit Cake 65 

Sunshine Almond Cake. 65 

Sunshine Cake 65 

Surprise Cake 65 

Washington Cake 65 

White Cake 66 

White Loaf Cake 66 

Yellow Mountain Cake 66 

Zwieback 66 

SMALL CAKES OR COOKIES 67-84 

Almond Rocks 67 

Al mond Stars 67 

Anise Cakes 67 

Anise Cookies 67 

Blitz Kuchen 67 

Brown Cakes 68 

Cardamom Cakes 68 

Chocolate Balls 68 

Chocolate Bars 68 

Chocolate Cakes 68 

Chocolate Cookies 69 

Chocolate Nuts 69 

Chocolate Spice Cakes 69 

Chocolate Rocks 69 

Cinnamon Squares 69 

Citron Cakes 70 

Cocoanut Cookies 70 

Cocoanut Drops 70 

Cocoanut Jumbles 70 

Cocoanut Wafers 70 

Cornucopias 71 

Cream Cakes 71 

Date Dreams 71 

Date Rolls 71 

Date Tarts 72 

Delicious Tea Cakes 72 

Dreams 72 

Drop Cakes .- 72 

Drop Molasses Cookies 72 

Eggless Cookies 73 

Fig Cakes 73 

Filled Squares 73 

Fruit Cookies 73 

Fruit Snaps 74 

German Tea Cakes 74 

Ginger Cakes 74 

Ginger Cookies 74 

Ginger Creams 74 

Ginger Drops 75 

Gold Cakes 75 

Graham Cookies 75 

Hazelnut Balls . 75 

Hartshorn Cookies 75 

Hermits 76 

Jelly Cakes , 76 

Lemon Cookies 76 

Lemon Creams 76 

Little Pound Cakes 76 

Love In A Tangle 77 

* Love Knots • ■ ■ ■ 77 

Mandel Schnittchcn 77 



Page 

Maple Squares 77 

Marguerites 78 

Marshmallow Wafers 78 

Midget Cakes 78 

Molasses Cookies 78 

Molasses Ginger Cakes 78 

Nut Chocolate Drops 79 

Oatmeal Cakes 79 

Oatmeal Cookies 79 

Oatmeal Drops 79 

Oatmeal Jumbles 79 

Oatmeal Kisses 80 

Oatmeal Nut Cakes 80 

Orange Wafers 80 

Peanut Cookies SO 

Peanut Cuts 81 

Peanut Drops 81 

Peanut Macaroons 81 

Peanut Squares 81 

Rocks 81 

Russian Rocks 82 

Sand Tarts 82 

Scottish Fancies 82 

Small Nut Cakes 82 

Sour Cream Cookies 82 

Sour Milk Cookies 83 

Spice Cookies 83 

Spiced Nuts 83 

Swedish Nut Wafers 83 

Tea Cakes 84 

Toasted Cake Bars 84 

Vanities 84 

Washington Cookies 84 

White Cookies 84 

TORTEN 85-101 

Almond Torte 85 

Almond Carrot Torte 85 

Almond Cheese Torte 85 

Almond Date Torte 85 

Almond Orange Torte 86 

Ambrosia Torte 86 

Apple Torte 86 

Apricot Torte 86 

Banana Graham Torte 87 

Berliner Torte 87 

Birthday Torte 87 

Bismarck Torte 87 

Blackberry Torte 87 

Blitz Torte 88 

Blueberry Torte 88 

Bread Torte 88 

Bread Potato Torte 88 

Carrot Torte 89 

Cheese Cake Torte 89 

Chestnut Torte 89 

Chocolate Torte 90 

Chocolate Crumb Torte 90 

Chocolate Date Torte 90 

Chocolate Lady Finger Torte 90 

Chocolate Potato Torte 90 

Chocolate Walnut Torte 91 

Chocolate Zwieback Torte 91 

Cornstarch Sand Torte 91 

Crumble Torte 91 

Date Torte 92 . 

Divinity Torte 92 

English Walnut Torte 92 

Farina Torte 92 

Filbert Torte 92 

Filled Apple Torte 93 

Filled Cherry Torte 93 

Filled Poppyseed Torte 93 

Fruit Torte 93 

German Cheese Torte 93 

Graham Cracker Torte 94 

Hazelnut Torte 94 

Heidelberg Torte 94 

Hickory Nut Torte 95 

Himmels Torte 95 

Himmels Layer Torte 95 

Lady Finger Baked Torte 95 

Lady Finger Torte 95 

Lemon Torte 96* 

Lemon Apple Torte 96 



Page 

Lemon Lady Finger Torte 96 

Linzer Torte 96 

Macaroon Torte 97 

Macaroon Almond Torte 97 

Milwaukee Potato Torte 97 

Mohn Torte 98 

Nut Torte 98 

Orleans Torte 98 

Our Schwarzbrod Torte 98 

Peach Torte 98 

Potato Torte 99 

Potato Bread Torte 99 

Prune Torte 99 

Rye Bread Torte 99 

Sand Torte 100 

Schaum Torte 100 

Vienna Torte 100 

Walnut Torte 100 

Walnut Date Torte 100 

Walnut Farina Torte 101 

Walnut Graham Torte 101 

Walnut Layer Torte 101 

Yaeger Torte 101 

Zwieback Torte 101 

CANDIES 102-105 

Butter Scotch No. 1 102 

Butter Scotch No. II 102 

Candied Orange Peel 102 

Chocolate Caramels No. I 102 

Chocolate Caramels No. II 102 

Sugared Dates 102 

Chocolate Creams 102 

Cocoa Walnut Fudge 103 

Fudge No. I 103 

Fudge No. II 103 

Maple Creams 103 

Nut Loaf 103 

Peanut Brittle 103 

Peanut Butter Fudge 103 

Peanut Candy 104 

Penoche 104 

Peppermint Drops 104 

Popcorn Balls 104 

Pulled Taffy No. 1 104 

Pulled Taffy No. II 104 

Rich Fudge 105 

Salted Nuts 105 

Sea Foam No. I 105 

Sea Foam No. II 105 

Sugared Almonds 105 

Sweetened Popcorn 105 

CHEESE 129-130 

COFFEE CAKES ' 109-113 

COOKIES 67-84 

DESSERTS 166-184 

DIRECTIONS FOR MEASURING 217 

DOUGHNUTS AND COFFEE 

CAKES 106-113 

Berliner Pfann-Kuchen 106 

Bismarck Doughnuts 106 

Buttermilk Doughnuts 106 

Chocolate Doughnuts 106 

Comfits 106 

Cream Doughnuts 107 

Crullers 107 

Dainty Doughnuts 107 

Doughnuts 107 

Ginger Doughnuts 108 

Orange Doughnuts 108 

Plain Doughnuts 108 

Potato Doughnuts 108 

Raised Doughnuts 108 

Raisin Doughnuts 109 

Trifles 109 

Almond Rusks 109 

Baked Roses 109 

Bread Sticks 109 

Butter Horns 110 

Christmas Coffee Cake 110 

Christmas StoUen 110 

Cinnamon Cake 110 

Coloches Ill 



Pase 

Dutch Apple Cake HI 

Fletchen Kuchen HI 

German Cofifee Cake 112 

Gugelhopf 112 

Kranz Kuchen 1 1^ 

Kreuznach Horns 1 1-^ 

DRINKS 136-137 

EGGS 127-128 

EQUIVALENTS 217 

FILLINGS AND ICINGS 113-123 

Allegretti Filling 113 

Almond Cream Filling 113 

Apple Filling 113 

Blitz Torte Filling 114 

Chocolate Cream Filling 114 

Cocoanut Lemon Filling 114 

Cream Filling 114 

Custard Filling 114 

Date Filling 114 

Delicious Cake Filling 114 

Fig Filling 115 

Fruit Meringue Filling ^ Ho 

German Filling 115 

German Fruit Filling 115 

Lemon Filling 115 

Lemon Fig Filling 1 15 

Maple Filling 116 

Marshmallow Filling 116 

Marshmallow Cream Filling 116 

. Nut Filling 116 

Nut and Raisin Filling 116 

Orange Filling No. I H6 

Orange Filling No. II 117 

Peanut Filling 117 

Pineapple Filling H7 

Pineapple Nut Filling 117 

Raisin Filling 117 

Roxbury Filling 117 

Strawberry Filling 118 

Sour Cream Nut Filling 118 

Walnut Custard Filling 118 

Baked Chocolate Icing 118 

Boiled Icing 118 

Burnt Almond Icing 118 

Caramel Icing 119 

Caramel Nut. Icing 119 

Chocolate Icing No. 1 119 

Chocolate Icing No. II 119 

Chocolate Marshmallow Icing 119 

Chocolate Nut Icing 119 

Cocoa Coffee Icing 120 

Coffee Icing 120 

Creamed Butter Icing 120 

Egg Coffee Icing 120 

Fruit Icing 120 

Fudge Icing 120 

Glace' Icing 120 

Ice Cream Icing 121 

Jelly Icing 121 

Jiffy Icing. ... 121 

Lorena's Cake Icing l.*! 

Meringue Icing 121 

Nougat Icing 121 

Nut Icing 122 

Opera Caramel Icing 122 

Orange Icing 122 

Quick Icing 122 

Quick Chocolate Icing 122 

Tutti Frutti Icing 122 

White Mountain Cream Icing 123 

FISH, EGGS. AND CHEESE 123-130 

Baked Black Bass 123 

Baked Pickerel 1 23 

Boiled Pike 123 

Boiled Salmon 123 

Brook Trout 123 

Codfish Balls 123 

Fish Balls 124 

Fish Croquettes 124 

Fish Mousse 124 

Fried Oysters 124 

Halibut Baked 124 

Halibut Baked With Tomato Sauce 124 



Page 

Oysters In Blankets 125 

Salmon Balls 125 

Salmon Croquettes 125 

Salmon Loaf 125 

Salmon Timbales 126 

Salmon With Peas 126 

Scalloped Fish 126 

Scalloped Oysters 126 

Shrimp Wiggle 126 

Sour Fish 126 

Baked Tomato With Egg 127 

Delicious Eggs 127 

Eggnog 127 

Egg Filling 12/ 

Egg Timbales 127 

Fluffed Eggs 127 

Hard Cooked Eggs 127 

Mayonnaise Eggs 128 

Mustard Eggs 128 

Puff Omelet 128 

Scalloped Eggs 128 

Soft Cooked Eggs 128 

Sole Eggs 128 

Stuffed Eggs 128 

Bunny 129 

Cheese and Peanuts 129 

Cheese Molds 129 

Cheese Ramekins 129 

Cheese Souffle 129 

Hot Cheese Sandwiches 129 

Pimiento Cheese Wafers 130 

Rice Rarebit 130 

Roquefort Cheese Wafers 130 

Welsh Rarebit 130 

GEMS 13-14 

GRIDDLE CAKES 202-205 

ICE CREAMS AND DRINKS 130-137 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream 130 

Burnt Cocoanut Ice Cream 131 

Burnt Sugar Ice Cream 131 

Chocolate Ice Cream 131 

Chocolate Nut Ice Cream 131 

Chocolate Cocoanut Ice Cream 131 

Custard Ice Cream 131 

Ginger Ice Cream 131 

Ginger Ice Cream 132 

Macaroon Ice Cream 132 

Nougat Ice Cream 132 

Peanut Brittle Ice Cream 132 

Plain Ice Cream 132 

Velvet Ice Cream 132 

Wafer Cream 133 

Apricot Sherbet No. 1 133 

Apricot Sherbet No. II 133 

Coffee Parfait 133 

Delicious Mousse 133 

Delicious Sherbet 133 

Frozen Almond Dessert 134 

Frozen Apricot Dessert 134 

Frozen Chocolate 134 

Frozen Fruit Pudding 134 

Lemon Ice 134 

Maple Freeze 134 

Maple Mousse 135 

Marshmallow Parfait I3o 

Milk Sherbet 135 

Milk Sherbet Without Egg 13o 

Pineapple Ice 135 

Strawberry Souffle 13j 

Three Of A Kind Sherbet 136 

Boiled Coffee 136 

Boiled Coffee for Big Affairs 130 

Cherryade 136 

Dandelion Wine 136 

Fruit Punch 136 

Grape Juice 137 

Grape Juice and Jam 137 

Iced Cocoa 137 

Orangeade 13' 

Pineapple Lemonade 137 

Pineapple Punch 137 

Raspberry Syrup 137 

ICINGS 118-123 



Page 

JAMS 1C3-165 

MEATS AND SAUCES 138-149 

Baked Sandwich 138 

Beef Loaf 138 

Beef Loaf With Tomato 138 

Beef Steak Roll 138 

Beef Stew 138 

Boiled Corn Beef 138 

Bread Stuffing For Meat 138 

Chicken A La King 139 

Chicken In Casserole 139 

Chicken Pie 139 

Chili Con Carne 139 

Cream Chicken 140 

Delicious Boiled Ham 140 

Delicious Veal Cutlets 140 

Fowl Or Meat Croquettes 140 

Frizzled Beef 141 

German Veal Roast •. . 141 

Ham Griddlecakes 141 

Ham Gems 141 

Ham Scallop 141 

Hash 141 

Hash-Aye 141 

Hungfarian Goulash 142 

Left Over Lamb 142 

Meat Souffle 142 

Minced Chicken 143 

Pigs In Blankets 143 

Pigs In Dough Blankets 143 

Pork Tenderloin With Bacon 143 

Potato Nests With Meat 143 

Prepared Soup Meat 143 

Sauerbraten 143 

Slice Of Ham Prepared 144 

Sour Tongue 144 

Spanish Ham 144 

Spiced Beef 144 

To Broil Steak 144 

Veal Birds 145 

Veal Birds With Dressing 145 

Veal Breast 145 

Veal Chops 145 

Veal Croquettes 145 

Veal Loaf 145 

Veal Loaf 146 

Veal Shortcake 146 

Veal Souffle 146 

Veal With Rice 146 

Wild Ducks Or Prairie Chickens 146 

Brown Sauce 147 

Celery Sauce 147 

Egg Sauce 147 

Egg Sauce For Fish 147 

Game Sauce 147 

Horseradish Sauce 148 

Lemon Sauce For Fish 148 

Meat Or Fish Sauce 148 

Mint Sauce For Lamb 148 

Newburg Sauce For Lobster 148 

Piquante Sauce 148 

Sweet Sour Sauce 149 

Thin White Sauce 149 

Tomato Sauce 149 

White Sauce No. 1 149 

White Sauce No. II 149 

MUFFINS 12-13 

PASTRY AND PIES 150-158 

Pastry 150 

Pie Crust With Eggs ' 150 

Tart Pie Crust 150 

Cookie Dough For Pies 150 

Muerbeteig For Pies 151 

Banana Pie 151 

Butter Scotch Pie 151 

Caramel Pie 151 

Carrot Pie 151 

Cheese Pie 151 

Cheese Straws 152 

Chocolate Pie 152 

Chocolate Cream Pie 152 

Cocoanut Pie 152 

Cranberry Pie 152 

Cream Pie 153 



Page 

Cream Lemon Pie 153 

Cream Puffs 153 

Custard Cherry Pie 153 

Grape Pie 153 

Green Tomato Mince Meat 154 

Jam Jumbles 154 

Lemon Pie 154 

Lemon Sponge Pie 154 

Mince Meat 154 

Mock Cherry Pie 155 

Mock Mince Pie 155 

Nut Pie 155 

Our Lemon Pie 155 

Peach Pie 155 

Pieplant Pie 156 

Pineapple and Apple Pie 156 

Poppy Seed Pie 156 

Prune Pie 156 

Pumpkin Pie No. I 156 

Pumpkin Pie No. II 156 

Raisin Pie 157 

Raisin Tarts 157 

Raspberry Currant Pie 157 

Sour Cream Pie 157 

Windbeutel 157 

Windbeutel-Potato 158 

PIES 151-157 

PICKLES AND JAMS 158-165 

Bean Relish 158 

Boiled Cucumbers 158 

Cauliflower and Carrots 159 

Celery iJelish 159 

Chicago Hot 159 

Chili Sauce 159- 

Chow Chow 159 

Corn Relish 160 

Dill Pickles 160 

Green Tomato Pickle 160 

India Chutney ■ 160 

Mustard Pickles 160 

Oil Pickles 161 

Pickled Cherries 161 

Pickled Crabs 161 

Pickled Peaches 161 

Spiced Peaches or Pickles 161 

Sweet Pickles 162 

Sweet Sliced Pickles 162 

Tomato Catsup 162 

Watermelon Rind 162 

Winona Relish 163 

Canned Ground Cherries 163 

Cranberry Jelly 163 

Delicious Conserve 163 

Four Fruit Jam 163 

German Apple Butter 163 

Gooseberry Jam 163 

Grape Conserve 164 

Green Tomato Preserve 164 

Orange Marmalade 164 

Orange Pieplant Jam 164 

Peach Butter 164 

Peach Marmalade 164 

Pear Marmalade 165 

Plum Conserve 165 

Raspberry Jam 165 

Red Raspberry and Currant Jam 165 

Rhubarb Conserve 165 

Spiced Gooseberries 165 

Strawberry Jam . . . '. 165 

PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 166-184 

Apple Fluff 166 

Apple Pudding 166 

Apple Pudding With Bread Crumbs 166 

Apple Rice 166 

Apple Roll 167 

Apple Snow 167 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 167 

Baked Apple Dumplings 167 

Baked Caramel Custard 167 

Baked Cocoanut Pudding 168 

Baked Custard 168 

Banana Dessert 168 

Birthday Pudding 168 

Boiled Cocoanut Pudding 168 



Page 

Bread Pudding 1(>S 

Brown Sugar Dessert •';■' 

Burnt Sugar Custard I'i'J 

Caramel Custard l^S 

Caramel Rice Pudding ■ . ■ • !<>'•* 

Carrot Pudding Without Eggs 1<J9 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 170 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 1^0 

Chocolate Macaroon Pudding 170 

Chocolate Pudding 170 

Chocolate Pudding With Eggs 171 

Chocolate Tapioca 171 

Cocoanut Bread Pudding 171 

Cocoanut Caramel Pudding 171 

Cornstarch Pudding • • • • 171 

Cottage Pudding 1^2 

Cream Cups 1 ' 2 

Cup Custard 17j- 

Custard Apples 17^ 

Date Whip ■ -H?, 

Delicious Bread Pudding 173 

Delicious Fig Dessert 173 

Delicious Wine Dessert 173 

English Plum Pudding • ■ • • 173 

Favorite Pudding 174 

Fig Pudding 174 

Floating Island 174 

Floating Island With Chocolate 1'4 

Frozen Pudding • ■ ■ • 174 

Fruit Balls 175 

Fruit Tapioca Pudding 175 

Ginger Cream • • ■ ■ 175 

Ginger Rice . . l/o 

Graham Pudding • ■ • ■ 175 

Home Pudding 176 

Junket ..176 

Lemon Pudding • ■ . • 176 

Lemon Bread Pudding ■ • . 176 

Lemon Gelatin Pudding ... 176 

Macaroon Pudding 177 

Macaroon Souffle 177 

Mock Whipped Cream 177 

Molasses Pudding 17' 

Molasses Suet Pudding 177 

Orange Cream 178 

Orange Fluff 178 

Orange Sponge 178 

Orange Trille 178 

Peach Pudding 178 

Peach Surprise Pudding 179 

Pineapple Pudding 179 

Plain Cottage Pudding 179 

Plain Rice Pudding 179 

Potato Pudding 179 

Prune Whip 180 

Queen Bread Pudding ISO 

Raisin Puffs 180 

Raspberry Cream 180 

Rhubarb Pudding ISO 

Rice Balls 181 

Rothe Gruetze 181 

Snow Balls 181 

Snow Pudding 181 

Spice Pudding 181 

Steamed Blueberry Pudding 182 

Steamed Brown Pudding 182 

Steamed Caramel Pudding 182 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding No. I 182 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding No. II 182 

Steamed White Pudding 183 

Strawberry Pudding 183 

Suet Pudding 183 

Surprise Pudding 183 

Tapioca Pudding 183 

Walnut Bread Pudding 184 

ROLLS 7-10 

SALADS 188-196 

SALAD DRESSINGS AND SALADS 184-196 

Boiled Dressing No. I 184 

Boiled Dressing No. II 184 

Catsup Cream Dressing 1 84 

Cooked Salad Dressing 184 

Cream Boiled Dressing 185 

Egg Nog Dressing ^ 1 85 



Page 

Excellent Salad Dressing 185 

French Dressing 1S5 

Fruit Dressing 18.5 

Home Salad Dressing 1S() 

Lemon Fruit Dressing I8C 

Mayonnaise Dressing ISO 

Plain Boiled Dressing 186 

Oil Mayonnaise Dressing 186 

Olive Sauce 187 

Plain Salad Dressing 187 

Prepared Mustard 187 

Roquefort Cheese Dressing 187 

Roquefort Salad Dressing 187 

Sour Cream Dressing 187 

Thousand Island Dressing 188 

Asparagus Salad 189 

Beet Salad 189 

Cabbage Salad 189 

Cabbage Salad With Oil 189 

Celery Salad 189 

Celery and Apple Salad 189 

Cherry and Filbert Salad 189 

Chestnut Salad 189 

Chicken Salad 190 

Chicken and Nut Salad 190 

College Boys' Salad 190 

Cream Cheese Combinations 188 

Cream Potato Salad 190 

Fig Salad 190 

Filled Tomato Salad 190 

Fowl and Egg Salad 190 

Fruit Salads 188 

Fruit Salad Fluff 191 

German Cabbage Salad 191 

German Celery Salad 191 

German Potato Salad 191 

Grape Fruit Salad 191 

Grape Nut Salad 191 

Green Or Wa.\ Bean Salad 192 

Ham Salad 192 

Herring Salad No. 1 192 

Herring Salad No. II 192 

Jelly Salad 192 

Malaga Salad 192 

Mushroom Salad 193 

Orange and Celery Salad 193 

Our Celery Salad 193 

Pea Salad 193 

Pea Salad With Nuts 193 

Pineapple Surprise Salad 193 

Potato Salad 194 

Potato and Cucumber Salad 194 

Prune Salad 194 

Salmon Salad 194 

Salmon Or Shrimp Salad 194 

Sardine Salad 194 

Sardine Jelly Salad 195 

Summer Salad 195 

Summer Salad With Sweetbreads 195 

Sweetbread Salad 195 

Swiss Salad 195 

Tomato and Pea Salad 195 

Tomato Jelly Salad 195 

Tuna Fish Salad 196 

Vegetable Salad 196 

Vegetable Gelatin Salad 196 

White Fruit Salad 196 

SAUCES FOR MEATS AND FISH . 147-149 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 196-199 

Berry Sauce 196 

Brandy Or Wine Sauce 196 

Brown Sugar Sauce 197 

Chocolate Sauce 197 

Cream Sauce 197 

Custard Sauce 197 

Egg Sauce 197 

Foamy Sauce No. I 197 

Foamy Sauce No. II 197 

Grape Sauce 197 

Hard Sauce 198 

Jelly Sauce 198 

Lemon Sauce 198 

Maple Sauce 198 

Pudding Sauce 198 



Page 

Raspberry Sauce 198 

Sour Cream Sauce 198 

Strawberry Sauce 199 

Vanilla Sauce 199 

Wine Sauce 199 

Yellow Sauce 199 

Yellow Sauce With Butter 199 

SOUPS AND GRIDDLE CAKES. .. 199-205 

Almond Soup 199 

Baked Bean Soup 199 

Bean Soup No. I 200 

Bean Soup No. II 200 

Celery Soup 200 

Corn Chowder 200 

Cream Tomato Soup 200 

Lemon Or Wine Soup 200 

Oyster Bisque 201 

Oyster Stew 201 

Pimiento Bisque 201 

Potato Chowder 201 

Soup Stock 201 

Swiss Soup 202 

Tomato Bisque 202 

Vegetable Soup 202 

Winona Chowder 202 

Banana Fritters 202 

Bread Crumb Griddle Cakes 203 

Bread Griddle Cakes 203 

Brown Sugar Syrup 203 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 203 

Egg Pancakes 203 

Plain Pancakes 203 

Plum Snowballs 204 

Quick Dumplings 204 

Rice Waffles 204 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 204 

Surprise Fritters 204 

Waffles No. I 204 

Waffles No. II 205 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes 205 

VEGETABLES 205-217 

Baked Beans 205 

Baked Beans — Boston 205 

Baked Cabbage 206 

Baked Onions 206 

Baked Onions— Whole 206 

Baked Squash 206 

Boiled Cauliflower 206 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes— Baked 206 

Canned Corn 206 

Carrots 206 

Carrots and Peas 207 

Carrot Fritters 207 

Cauliflower With Cheese 207 

Corn Chowder 207 

Corn Fritters No. 1 207 



Page 

Corn Fritters No. II 207 

Corn Oysters 207 

Corn Pudding 208 

Delicatessen Potatoes 208 

Delicious Spaghetti 208 

Delmonico Potatoes 208 

Dumplings With Asparagus 208 

French Fried Potatoes 212 

Fried Carrots 208 

Fried Tomatoes 208 

German Spinach 208 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 209 

Green Corn Oysters 209 

Hot Beets With Dressing 209 

How to Can String Beans 209 

Indian Corn 209 

Italian Macaroni 209 

Kohlrabi 210 

Lentils 210 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 210 

Mashed Potatoes 210 

Milch Kraut 210 

Noodles 210 

Ormolo Potato 211 

Parsnips 211 

Potato Balls 211 

Potato Balls — Browned 211 

Potato Balls— French Fried 211 

Potato Croquettes 211 

Potato Dumplings 212 

Potato Pancakes No. I 212 

Potato Pancakes No. II 212 

Potato Puflf 212 

Potato Souffle No. I 212 

Potato Souffle No. II 212 

Potatoes With Cheese 212 

Red Cabbage 213 

Rice Croquettes and Patties 213 

Rutabagas 213 

Saratoga Chips 213 

Savory Rice 213 

Scalloped Apples 213 

Scalloped Corn 214 

Scalloped Onions 214 

Scalloped Potatoes 214 

Spatzen 214 

Spinach Balls 214 

Spinach Vegetable Pudding 215 

String Beans and Tomatoes 215 

Stuffed Cabbage 215 

Stuffed Cabbage With Rice 215 

Stuffed Potatoes 216 

Stuffed Tomatoes 216 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 216 

Turnips 216 

Warm Beets Or Peas 216 

Wax Beans And Bacon 216 

Wild Rice 216 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 489 633 6 . 



