NEWSHOLME'S 



JAMES KERR,M.D. 



NEWSHOLME'S SCHOOL HYGIENE 



M 



(JSTEWSHOLME'S \ 

SCHOOL HYGIENE 

THE LAWS OF HEALTH 

IN 

RELATION TO SCHOOL LIFE 

REWRITTEN FOR ALL SCHOOL WORKERS 

BY 

JAMES KERR, M.A., M.D. 




NEW YORK 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
1916 



(All rights reterved) 



INTRODUCTION 

" SCHOOL HYGIENE : The Laws of Health in Kelation to 
School Life " was first published in the year 1887, and 
since then, with only one revision in the year 1903, it 
has had a large and continuing annual sale, having reached 
its twelfth edition in 1907. 

When first published, "School Hygiene" gave a fair 
picture of the needs of public elementary schools in relation 
to personal and general hygiene, and formed a useful guide 
to the means for improving educational efficiency, so far as 
this is determined by hygienic considerations. For some 
years, however, the rapid advance of the science of school 
hygiene and the extensions of its practice in new departures 
in school-life have rendered it highly desirable that " School 
Hygiene" should be rewritten, if its continued sale were to 
be authorized. 

My own work during recent years has not been specially 
concerned with the educational problems of school hygiene, 
except in so far as they form part of the general problem of 
Public Health; and it was evidently desirable that a new 
book should be written, merely using " School Hygiene " as 
its framework, by an authority on the educational side of 
hygiene. 

The publishers are to be congratulated on having secured 
for this task the services of Dr. James Kerr, whose know- 
ledge of the science of school hygiene and whose original 
work in promoting its advance are unrivalled among 
English-speaking communities. 

5 



6 INTRODUCTION 

"School Hygiene" has been entirely rewritten by him; 
and it is now not only a complete textbook of the subject, 
but it also embodies a large amount of original research 
matter. Although the publishers have wished my name to 
be retained on the title-page, I can claim no share in what, 
in my opinion, is a most valuable contribution to the science 
and practice of school hygiene. 

ARTHUR NEWSHOLME. 
March 1916. 



CONTENTS 

PART I 
THE CHILD 

CHAPTER PAOK 

I. PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS IN RELATION TO 

HYGIENE . . . . . . .13 

II. SPEECH . . . . . . .28 

III. AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOLWORK . . 40 

IV. THE OPEN AIR . . . . . .55 

V. TONSILS . . . . . . .69 

VI. EXCESSIVE MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE . . 76 

VII. THE CARE OP ABNORMAL CHILDREN . . .89 

VIII. THE BiNET-SiMON MEASURING SCALE FOR INTELLIGENCE 106 

IX. THE PHYSICALLY DEFECTIVE .... 115 

X. BLINDNESS ....... 118 

XI. DEAFNESS . . . . . . 122 

XII. THE SCHOOL PROGRAMME ..... 127 

XIII. THE TEACHER'S HEALTH . . . . . 134 

XIV. EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE ..... 141 

XV. PHYSICAL EDUCATION ..... 176 

XVI. SLEEP AND REST . . 191 ' 



8 CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XVII. NUTRITION AND DIET ..... 195 

XVIII. DENTAL CARE 206 

XIX. CLOTHING . ." f 214 

XX. CLEANLINESS . . . . . 219 

XXI. SCHOOL ACCIDENTS ..... 230 

XXII. ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES .... 236 

XXIII. MEDICAL INSPECTION . 258 



PART II 
APPARATUS 

I. SITES AND BUILDINGS ..... 269 

II. THE NECESSITY FOR VENTILATION .... 278 

III. NATURAL VENTILATION ..... 290 

IV. WARMING OF SCHOOLS ..... 301 
V. MECHANICAL VENTILATION ..... 307 

VI. NATURAL LIGHTING ...... 316 

VII. SCHOOL FURNITURE ...... 328 

VIII. THE CLASSROOM . . . . . .336 

IX. SCHOOL CLEANSING ...... 342 

GLOSSARY OF A FEW MEDICAL TERMS . . . 347 

INDEX . . 349 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

FIG. PAGB 

1. Scheme of simplest elements of nervous action : a reflex arc . 18 

2. Diagram to illustrate general structure of the central nervous 

system 20 

3. Location of chief speech centres on the left hemisphere of 

the brain 28 

4. Diagram of speech centres in a babbling infant less than a 

year old .29 

5. Main centres, hearing and speaking, in an illiterate person . 30 

6. Main centres in a literate person .32 

7. Chart of average stature, weight, etc., according to age 

and sex 47 

8. Increase of average height with each standard in children 

of the same age-groups 49 

9. Record of fatigue tests (number of sums correct) . . .83 

10. Record of fatigue tests . . 84 

11. Hand-balance 83 

12. Diagram to illustrate qualitative mental variations . . .90 

13. Distribution of 1,350 children aged ten last birthday, showing 

heights in centimetres and standards 95 

14. Two of the designs used as memory tests of form for ten-year- 

old mental level 110 

15. Orienting lines for copy-book for young children . . . 130 

16. Vertical section of the eyeball 145 

17. Diagram showing effect of a biconvex lens on rays of light . 146 

18. Diagram illustrating increasing amount of accommodation 

required with increasing nearness of object . . . 150 

19. Infant writing 158 

20. Adult writing 158 

21. Percentage in each standard with defective visual acuity . 167 

22. Percentage with defective visual acuity at various ages . . 167 

23. Section of hypermetropic eye 171 

24. Section of myopic eye 172 



10 ILLUSTRATIONS 

FIG. PAOK 

25. Kyphotic child, showing ordinary, over-corrected, and correct 

attitudes 188 

26. Relation of weight and height in good nutrition ; based on 

Brighton boys, continuous, and girls, dotted curves . . 200 

27. Diagrammatic section of a molar, to show the enamel covering 

of the crown, the dentine, with the pulp cavity and nutrient 
vessels, and the cementum covering the roots . . . 207 

28. Breach in enamel of molar, resulting in invasion of dentine 

and pulp cavity 209 

29. The Spartan Mother (from Punch, December 1913) . . .217 

30. Cultures from throat and nose, made on a systematic plan . 244 

31. Diphtheria. The high degree of out-of-school infection in a city 246 

32. Measles outbreak in Hampstead 250 

33. Dry and wet bulb thermometer 288 

34. Showing convection currents from occupant of room and gas . 292 

35. (1) Elevation ; (2) section of double flue 297 

36. Tobin's tube and outlet ventilator through ceiling . . . 298 

37. Sheringham's valve 298 

38. Boyle's mica flap outlet ventilator 299 

39. Hinckes-Bird window ventilator 299 

40. Galton's ventilating stove 308 

41. Diagrammatic section of part of a school 311 

42. Showing in a combined " exhaust " and " plenum " system of 

ventilation the relative position of inlets and outlets of air 
giving purest air throughout a schoolroom .... 312 

43. The steady increase of CO 2 except during play interval in 

naturally ventilated schools tested in quiet weather . . 313 

44. The drying effect of heating the air and later of also moisten- 

ing it with first half, then the whole, of the screen wet, 
during school-hours 314 

45. Lumeter portable photometer for school use, giving surface 

brightness in foot-candles 318 

46. Thorner's light tester 319 

47. Square dots of 1'75 mm. side with the same intervals . . 320 

48. Three relative positions of seat and desk 330 

49. Profile of a dual seat and desk popular in Central Europe . 333 



PART I 
THE CHILD 



CHAPTER I 

PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS IN RELATION 
TO HYGIENE 

THE future of a child is largely determined by its training 
and education. This is true not only for what is commonly 
but erroneously regarded as the main function of education, 
the instillation of knowledge and the training of the mind ; 
but also for that ethical culture of the will which is set out 
by Eein, in his Outlines of Pedagogy, as the highest purpose 
of education. To understand the objects of education and 
to avoid possible dangers in connection with it, the teacher 
should be acquainted with the principles of physiology, 
psychology, and hygiene in their application to child life. 

The object being to secure mens sana in corpore sano, we 
must first consider the cerebral functions. The following 
is a brief outline of the Anatomy and Physiology of the 
Nervous System on which mental hygiene must be based. 

Anatomy. The nervous system of man is divided into 
two parts, central and peripheral. 

The central nervous system, consisting of the brain 
and spinal cord, is encased in the skull and vertebral 
column; to the naked eye it consists of two kinds of 
material, viz. grey matter and white matter. In the spinal 
cord the grey matter occupies a central position with the 
white matter surrounding it. In the brain the grey matter 
lies chiefly superficially, and constitutes the whole surface 
or cortex of the cerebral hemispheres, which form by far the 

13 



14 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

greater portion of the human brain. In order to increase 
the surface of the cortical grey matter, the cerebral hemi- 
spheres are thrown into ridges and furrows, forming 
convolutions which have a fixed and definite arrangement. 

The peripheral nervous system consists of nerves 
which present the appearance of white threads, and are 
distributed to the skin, muscles, glands, and organs, forming 
a vast network by which each part of the body is linked up 
through the central nervous system to every other part. 
These peripheral nerves arise from the central nervous 
system in pairs. From the brain twelve pairs arise, and each 
of these twelve presents special and distinctive characters, 
the second pair, for instance, being distributed solely to 
the eyes, and the eighth pair solely to the ears. The spinal 
nerves, on the other hand, are all similar to one another 
in function. They spring from the spinal cord at regular 
intervals along its whole length ; each spinal nerve arises by 
two roots an anterior root and a posterior root ; these two 
roots join and form the main trunk of the nerve, which 
gives off branches. Each branch usually contains elements 
derived from both the anterior and the posterior root. 

The foregoing is a general account of the nervous system 
as it appears to the naked eye. Microscopically all animal 
tissues are built up of cells. The cells of the nervous 
system are very specialized. Each nerve cell consists of 
a minute club-shaped particle of protoplasm, from one side 
of which short tufts or dendrons proceed, and from the 
other side one or more minute nerve fibres (axon), the whole 
being called a neurone. The fibrils of the axon probably 
pass through the cell body and originate in the dendrons. 
It has been discovered that the fibrils between the almost 
innumerable individual nerve cells of the cortex of the 
brain are not in permanent contact. There are between 
them minute gaps, possibly of not more than -^^ of an 
inch (synapses), which cease to exist during the transmission 



PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS 15 

of nerve currents. This throws important light on the 
processes of thought and on the mechanism of mental 
fatigue. As nerve currents pass through the brain by 
definite paths, there must be some mode of making and 
breaking contact between neighbouring nerve cells. The 
exact nature of this mechanism is unknown. It may be 
that the dendrons of the nerve cells lengthen to make 
contact under the stimulus. 

The grey matter of the brain and spinal cord consists 
chiefly of aggregations of such cells and fibrils. Every nerve 
fibre is a prolongation of a nerve cell and is dependent upon 
the cell for its nourishment. The white matter consists 
solely of fibres, each surrounded by a medullatcd sheath, 
consisting of a fatty, insulating material which gives rise to 
the white appearance. The white matter, therefore, since 
it contains no nerve cells, simply serves to link up the 
various parts of the nervous system together. 

The peripheral nerves consist of great numbers of nerve 
fibres, for the most part medullated, each nerve fibre being 
a prolongation of a cell of the central nervous system ; the 
nerves branch and branch again until each nerve fibre 
terminates in an end organ in the muscle, skin, gland, or 
other structure to which it is distributed. 

Physiology. When a peripheral nerve is divided the 
organ to which it is distributed is deprived of its connection 
with the central nervous system. Occasionally a nerve is 
found which supplies skin alone. When such a nerve is 
severed sensation is lost in the part of the skin to which it 
is supplied, and such a nerve is called a purely sensory 
nerve. Occasionally a nerve supplies a muscle alone, and 
its division causes paralysis of the muscle ; such a nerve is 
termed a purely motor nerve. Most of the peripheral nerves 
are mixed, i.e. contain both sensory and motor fibres. All 
the sensory fibres of a spinal nerve enter the spinal cord by 
the posterior or sensory root, all the motor fibres pass out 



16 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

from the cord by the anterior or motor root. Thus, if the 
anterior root of a spinal nerve is alone severed, paralysis 
occurs in all the muscles supplied by the nerve, while 
sensation in the tracts of skin to which the nerve is dis- 
tributed remains unimpaired. The reverse effect is pro- 
duced by division of the posterior root alone. 

Nerve fibres cannot originate impulses. They only 
transmit them ; they bear the same relation to nerve centres 
as telegraph wires to the batteries which generate the 
current. The difference between motor and sensory fibres 
is in the nature of the peripheral and central connections 
of the nerves rather than in the fibres themselves. 

The central nervous system consists, as we have seen, of 
grey and white material. The white material consists of 
medullated fibres which merely act as conducting agents, 
joining together various portions of the grey matter. The 
grey matter contains millions of nerve cells, which are 
aggregated together into centres. If the spinal cord be 
completely severed in the middle of the back, sensation and 
voluntary motion are lost below this part of the body, 
because the conducting paths to and from the brain are 
destroyed. Nevertheless, if under such circumstances the 
foot is pricked, movements occur known as reflex move- 
ments. Such unconscious movements play a large and 
essential part in the economy of life. The spinal cord is 
the site par excellence of reflex centres. 

The cortex of the brain consists of cells aggregated 
together to form the higher sensory and motor centres. 
The main sensory cortical centres correspond to the senses 
of touch, sight, hearing, smell, and taste. Each of these 
centres occupies a special and separate convolution or series 
of convolutions. Stimuli from the external world are 
received by the sensory end organs, and are there converted 
into nervous impulses. For example, contact of a foreign 
body with the skin is converted by the endings of the 



PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS 17 

sensory nerves into a centripetal impulse which passes up 
to the spinal cord by the posterior root, and is then carried 
by relays of cells with their axons to the touch centre of the 
cortex, where it becomes converted into the sensation of 
touch. 

When a wide view of the body and its functions is taken, 
the nervous system appears as the master structure, and 
all other organs and systems of tissues its servants and 
protectors. The organs of sensation supply it with infor- 
mation from outside, the digestive and circulatory machinery 
supply nourishment, the various glands secrete and excrete 
for its benefit, and the muscles carry out its commands. 
All function of the nervous system, every mental and 
psychical action, comes to light only as a muscular per- 
formance. The grandest ideals, the noblest thoughts, can 
only be expressed by words, which are actions of the 
articulatory muscles; or in writing by the hand, or in 
gestures by movement of other muscles. 

Hughlings Jackson, who might be termed the Darwin of 
the nervous system, has shown that all nervous action can 
be analysed into a sensation, something impressed on a 
sensory nerve end, and a movement. Whether the sen- 
sation be pi*essure on the skin, slight chemical changes 
from light falling on the retina, or mechanical from vibra- 
tions of the ossicles in the ears, the sensory impress causes 
a nervous impress to travel centripetally to a sensory nerve 
cell !. Through the cell dendrons this impulse spreads to 
neighbouring cells A,, which again react on, for instance, a 
near motor cell M t ; an impulse travels centrifugally down 
its nerve to set some muscle fibre in action. This repre- 
sents the simplest kind of nervous action, and need not 
be accompanied by consciousness ; indeed, such an action 
is generally quite unconscious. This type of nervous 
machinery has an ancestry so ancient, and heredity so fixed, 
that it descends to all in similar and unvarying form. 



18 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



causing mere muscular response to a sensory irritation 
which is known as a reflex act. 

But the sensory cell S,, of which there are myriads, 
representing every element of body area and surface, is 
in connection not only through A, with the dendrons 
of other neighbouring motor cells, as M,, but also itself 



SP/NAL. CORD 




FIG. 1. Scheme of simplest elements of nervous action : a reflex arc. 

Tbe nervous impulse set up in the sensitive surface (skin, etc.) travels up 
the afferent (sensory) nerve to the sensory cell (S,) in the posterior root 
ganglion (P.S.G.), thence to ramify in the central nervous system (spinal 
cord, brain). This cell may set up activities by its discharge in the associa- 
tion cell (A,) or in other sensory cells (S 2 ). The cell A, can again activate 
motor neurones, of which the nearest (M,) is shown. These can also be 
activated from the brain through motor neurones (M 2 ). From M, the motor 
impulse passes out through the anterior root motor nerves to set the muscle 
in action. The route 8, A, M, is a reflex arc, the simplest route which can 
be taken by the nervous impulse. 

with prolongations of other more central sensory cells S a , 
of a higher grade functionally, as they receive and integrate 
impulses from many sensory cells on the functional level 
of S,, so that in place of small elements of sensitive sur- 
face, such as each cell represented, there are considerable 
districts, and the nature of the most complicated impulses 
received by them can be analysed out by these higher-level 



PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS 19 

cells. They again are in relation through very numerous 
association cells A 7 with correspondingly higher-level 
motor cells M 2 , which affect movement not of a single 
fibre or muscle, but through the many lower motor cells 
M x which they each control can group fibres or muscles 
so as to give complicated movements. This higher set of 
sensory, association, and motor cells is known as the 
second, middle, or intermediate level of Jackson. They 
subserve the organic functions of life and complicated 
automatic movements, generally acting subconsciously. 
These second-level cells are likewise of ancient ancestry, 
although evolved later in race history than the lowest-level 
cells which they control : they have long heredity and 
develop early and easily, so that they are liable to little 
change or imperfection, developing thoroughly under the 
normal stimuli of life, unless, as is common with town 
children, early life is passed under conditions wanting in 
sufficiency of such physiological stimuli. 

Just as these second-level cells co-ordinate and control 
groups of the lowest-level cells, taking their sensory im- 
pulses and converting them into motor impulses of a 
complicated nature, so the whole actions and reactions of 
this second level are again represented in an infinitely more 
complicated way and brought under wider control by a 
third or highest level of cells S 3 , A 3 , and M 3 , whose control 
and action are within the conscious life, in its widest sense. 
This highest level is comparatively lately acquired, and is 
itself much stratified, if such a phrase may be allowed, so 
that some functions are ill-developed, others only a few 
can attain, whilst even such common things as reading and 
writing many fail to reach, and the average moral level of 
behaviour is impossible to a still larger number. It is this 
comparatively late development of these highest functions, 
and the fact that they are not fixed by long heredity, that 
make the effects of education valuable. It is, indeed, only 



20 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 




FIG. 2. Diagram to illustrate general structure of the central 
nervous system. 

A nervous impulse originating at the surface passes up to the first-level 
sensory cell (S,) and then on, either through the simple low-level association 
cells (A) to the motor cells (M,), causing a reflex act, or it goes further to the 
second-level sensory cells (S 2 ). Only two nerves are continued in the diagram. 
The impulse at 8 2 may pass through a variety of second-level association 
cells i A..I, setting in action one or more motor cells (M 2 ), which again control 
groups of M, cells, producing complicated actions; or the 8? cells may set 
the highest level (8?) in action, and here, through an infinite variety of 
associations, A 3 may produce the most complicated conscious actions. 



PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS 21 

in this highest region of the nervous system that any real 
educational improvement is possible. The highest human 
attainment is self-control, which can only be secured by 
the perfect functioning of these cells which control all 
activities. 

From Hughlings Jackson's conception of the three levels 
of nervous function, it follows that a record of the animal's 
evolutionary history is embedded in the structure and 
workings of its nervous system, just as the earth has its 
geological record, and that the more recently developed 
functions are the highest and latest acquired. 

That these are also the least fixed by heredity, and most 
likely to vary in degree of development and in liability to 
injury by adverse causes, will be frequently noted in later 
chapters. This scheme of nervous function and machinery 
as traced out by Hughlings Jackson has been like a search- 
light in making clear the fields of both medicine and 
education. It may be recapitulated, that the order of 
evolution of the nervous structures in the animal world 
appears to be that the lowest levels are the first to develop 
and function, both in the race and the individual. The 
highest levels, least fixed by heredity, and most subject to 
environment and education, are those which appear latest. 
The reverse order is followed in dissolution of the nervous 
system, whether from the slow effects of disease or the 
action of general poisons. Alcohol, the most universal 
protoplasmic poison, picks out and paralyses the finest 
and latest developed qualities first. The keen edge of the 
judgment is blunted earliest, then slight loss of control of 
the speech centres is shown by loquacity ; finally, as deeper 
stages are reached, the middle-level functions fail, the 
balance of the eyes is not maintained, things are seen 
double ; then the control of the limbs fails, till at last the 
lowest levels may be attacked, and finally even such 
automatic mechanisms as are necessary for life may give 



22 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

way, and at last the breathing ceases. Again, a child who 
is just beginning to walk or to speak may easily have 
the nervous development connected with these functions 
delayed and thrown back for a time by some childish 
illness, and even temporarily, as every mother knows, 
the highest qualities may be thrown out of gear, and 
childish tempers and moral lapses may occur from 
toxic hindrances which are amenable to treatment by 
castor oil. 

Nutrition of the Brain. Whatever view be taken as 
to the exact relationship between mind and brain, it is 
agreed that the brain is the instrument necessary for all 
mental operations. The nutrition of the brain depends 
upon its having a supply of blood of good quality. Thus 
any constitutional weakness associated with feeble circu- 
lation or anaemia (impoverished blood) will impede or 
embarrass the mental functions. The effects of alcohol 
have been described ; similarly deleterious materials may 
be absorbed and give rise to listlessness, apathy, or other 
nervous symptoms. The headache associated with indi- 
gestion, excessive tea-drinking, or habitual constipation 
is notorious. On the other hand certain materials seem 
necessary for brain development. The thyroid and some 
other ductless glands have powerful effects, and insufficient 
thyroid material in the blood of infants is associated with 
an arrest of bodily and mental development known as 
cretinism. 

Mental activity is accompanied by an increased flow of 
blood to the brain, and with increased flow of nutritive 
material the brain grows. Hence, within limits, reasonable 
mental activity produces increased mental power. 

The improved circulation and better quality of blood 
produced in the pupils of the open-air schools are, as a 
rule, soon revealed in faces expressive of happiness, interest, 
and curiosity. The alert nervous expression in the face 



PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS 23 

of a child ought to be looked for as the result of all good 
training and sound education. 

Heredity is the main determining factor of potential 
mental qualities, but education can help the development 
of these potentialities, and in greater proportion the 
higher they are in function. Different convolutions of the 
brain have special functions, and disproportionate develop- 
ment of any one part may be produced by excessive mental 
activity in a particular direction, with the result that the 
cultivation of one sensory organ, or rather the correspond- 
ing part of the brain, may be encouraged to the neglect 
of other senses. Each sense requires special cultivation, 
and develops its potentiality in proportion to the skill 
used in the educational process. 

The relation of all parts is intimate, and imperfect per- 
formance of one function may react on many others. 
Comparative studies have shown, for instance, how 
with development of the powers of the fore limb and 
hand in different animals there is development of the 
field of vision, and that the region of the brain sub- 
servient to vision, the so-called visual cortex, develops 
correspondingly in mass and complexity. Indeed, the 
hand and eye might almost be regarded as one organ in 
the sense of nervous function. 

The muscular sense and common sensation develop at 
a very early age. The suckling stretching and moving its 
limbs, twisting and boring about, feeling and handling 
its nose and ears, wrists and toes, is educating itself in 
these respects. The sensations derived from movements 
(kinesthetic sensations) of eyes, lips, tongue, body, and 
limbs are all of value in estimating distance and space. 
This kinesthetic sense is one of the earliest developed, and 
has great potentialities and refinements which often are 
allowed to remain latent. Keliance mainly on this enables 
the Montessori methods to attain certain results at an 



24 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

unduly early age. The possibilities of this muscular sense 
are also seen in the willing game and thought-reading. 
Although such possibilities exist in all the senses, yet it 
is quite probable that the effects of formal education are 
much overrated, and in regard to mental training it is 
highly probable that in the elementary school the amount 
of class instruction goes far beyond the power of the 
child's assimilative capacity, and that only a fraction of 
such instruction benefits the child. 

Recent theories of the structure of the mind tend to 
the idea that from the very earliest years ideas and desires, 
buried in oblivion, are absorbed and elaborated with vast 
influence over the future life. These ideas and desires 
have to be built into a harmonic structure. Sometimes 
these, not being in accord with the conventions of civilized 
life, are repressed without being assimilated, so that they 
exist quite unknown to the individual, but possibly in- 
fluencing other ideas or conduct. The mental life of an 
individual which emerges into the clear light of conscious- 
ness is rigidly balanced and bound up with a great mass 
of hidden subconscious mentality, just as the shimmering 
pinnacles of an iceberg, glistening in the sun, are oriented 
and swayed by nearly ten times the mass of similar solid 
material beneath the surface of the sea. Hence the 
reason for insisting on afl the amenities of life possible 
in the schoolroom. The children have longer vested 
interests in the country than any adults, and the very 
youngest child is a citizen for whose future life the 
country should do its best without fear or compromise, 
even in the sense of cultivating its earliest ideals towards 
the highest and best things. Hence also the vast impor- 
tance socially of proper education among its fellows, even 
in the infant department and baby-room. 

Certain automatic movements occur independently of 
any immediate disturbing influence from without ; such are 



PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS 25 

the movements of respiration, which are controlled by the 
nerve cells of a centre situated in the medulla oblongata, 
the portion of the brain in anatomical connection with the 
spinal cord. This respiratory centre is a mechanism of the 
lowest nervous level, and is set in action by stumili derived 
from the amount of carbon dioxide in the blood. 

Complex acts such as walking or writing, which belong 
to the middle levels of performance, require in the first 
instance to be learnt, slowly and with great pains, under 
conscious control. All the children in the baby-room 
should be taught to walk along a one-inch board set on edge. 
During the process of education and development these 
middle-level acts are delegated to the control of lower 
centres and are performed subconsciously, but they are 
never automatic in the sense applied above to respiration. 
Slovenly and clumsy acts, if allowed to be repeated, may 
become fixed as such in the nervous system, and when 
groups of cells have thus become associated together to 
represent these acts it is too late to correct the fault. This 
is often noticeable in speech, when the precise articulation 
has not been imitatively acquired by a child, who, indeed, 
is often defective 'in other respects. It is while new accom- 
plishments are being learned, whilst the nervous mechanism 
is still plastic, and still being guided with a conscious effort, 
that constant and assiduous care on the part of the teacher 
must obtain. Prevention is nearly always possible, cure 
almost never. Memory of all kinds depends on a pathway 
that has once been used being thereby easier for impulses 
to travel along again. The oftener the pathway is used the 
more fixed it becomes, and the greater likelihood of nervous 
impulses travelling that way. Thus are formed habits good 
or bad. Habit is memory chiefly of the middle-level centres. 
" The great thing in all our education is to make our 
nervous system our ally instead of our enemy. It is to 
fund and capitalize our acquisitions, and to live at ease 



26 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

upon the fund. For this we must make automatic and 
habitual, as early as possible, as many useful actions as we 
can, and guard against growing into ways that are likely to 
be disadvantageous to us, as we should against the plague " 
(William James). " Think twice before you speak," says 
an old preacher ; but the man of action who is to be a force 
in the competition of everyday life should be able to speak 
without needing to think, or rather he should have thought 
to such purpose in the past that it is unnecessary now, and 
the correct reply comes at once almost without conscious 
effort. 

To summarize : 

Studies requiring observation, memory, or reasoning 
bring into action different parts of the brain, and each 
requires careful and balanced attention. The utility of a 
brain depends largely upon its readiness of response to 
stimuli. Corresponding to each thought there is a nerve 
current in a particular part of the brain. Nerve currents 
travel most easily in the pathways of least resistance ; that 
is, where currents have repeatedly passed. Hence, careful 
and persevering attention to the formation of good habitudes 
of thought will strengthen individual character. In this 
way a wise teacher may help to counteract evil hereditary 
tendencies or newly acquired habits of an objectionable 
character, and thus aid in the formation of a strong and 
evenly balanced mind. 

The four chief means for the development of the nerve 
cells are : 

1. Afferent impulses reaching the brain from the different 

sensory organs ; 

2. Efferent impulses passing from the brain to initiate 

muscular acts or to cause their repetition ; 

3. Functions of association between the two above, as, 

for instance, when a lesson dictated by a teacher is 



PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS 27 

being written down. Here the afferent impulses 
are received by the ear ; the efferent are transmitted 
to the muscles employed in writing. 
4. Co-ordination of efferent impulses to produce har- 
monious action of a complex character. Thus, in 
reading or writing the necessary co-ordination of 
the muscular movements involved is chiefly effected 
by the nerve centres at the base of the brain and in 
the cerebellum. 



CHAPTEE II 
SPEECH 

THE intellectual life of man is closely associated with his 
power of speech. With the development of this faculty 
definite centres become organized in the brain. These 
speech centres are mainly four : the auditory word centre, 




PIG. 3. Location of chief speech centres on the left 
hemisphere of the brain. 

A, auditory ; V, visual ; W, writing ; S, speaking. 

the visual word centre, the motor speech centre, and the 
writing centre. In most people they are on the left side 
of the brain, but this is reversed in left-handed people. 
Behind all these centres stands some co-ordinating, judging, 

and regulating mechanism which we associate with the 

as 



SPEECH 



29 



intellect. For this intellectual centre no locality can be 
assigned, although large areas of the brain are known to be 
associated with all the other centres and to be the latest to 
attain full anatomical development. They are spoken of as 
the higher association centres. 

The Word Heard and Spoken. The appreciation of 
sounds heard would represent the earliest part of the 
speech faculty developed in the history of the race, and 
thus the hearing centre and the intellectual appreciation 




BA 



FIG. 4. Diagram of speech centres in a babbling infant less than 
a year old. 

Dotted line indicates the connection developed -when echolalia appears. 
RA and LA, the lower auditory centres. A, the auditory centre. S, the 
motor speech centre (Broca's) ; and RS and LS, the lower speech centres. 
I indicates the higher centres of association concerned with intellectual 
control. 



of its message would be first developed. The infant reacts 
to sounds by movements; it begins to hear when a few 
weeks old. Each ear is connected through its auditory 
nerve with a hearing centre on the same side of the brain. 
These centres again are connected with the one word- 
hearing centre, and through this with what may be called 
an intellectual centre. As the word-hearing centre develops 
the child begins to understand some words spoken to it, at 
about nine to twelve months old. The word-hearing centre 
and its connection to the centre for intellectual appreciation, 



:iO 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



so far as words are concerned, are therefore by this time 
partly developed. 

Meanwhile the infant has been producing babbled sounds 
meaninglessly for some time. This babble is the first 
starting of spontaneous function in the developing motor 
speech centre, and as yet has no real meaning, and no 
connection with the intellect. It is caused by the motor 
word centre preparing for function, setting in action the 
speech muscle-controlling centres on both sides. The next 
stage is of great interest : the child is noticed in the midst 




FIG. 5. Main centres, hearing and speaking, in an illiterate person. 

of its babble to repeat occasionally a word it has just heard, 
and later perhaps several words mere repetition without 
meaning, termed echolalia. The connection shown by 
the dotted line in Fig. 4 has now developed between the 
auditory word centre and the motor word centre, and the 
former (auditory) is setting the latter (motor) in action, 
without the intellectual centres taking any part. Normal 
at this infantile stage of development, in the adult or 
school child echolalia implies the existence of well de- 
veloped lower brain centres and want of their control by 
the higher mechanisms. Like any other sign of irregular 



SPEECH 31 

order of mental development in school-life, this suggests 
feeble-mindedness. In the midst of the babble and 
echolalic speech, words begin to be used with meaning as 
intellectual growth develops paths to control the motor 
centre. The babble gradually ceases as the intelligence 
develops control of the motor centre, and intelligent 
speech of a rudimentary character appears. Often the 
speech is thought to be more intelligent than it really is, 
phrases being used as heard, and, indeed, the intelligence 
of young children is generally much overestimated. The 
speech even of adults, if uneducated, may remain largely 
dependent on words heard, so that frequently the staple of 
their speech is a gossipy repetition of others' remarks, " says 
he," "says she," "they said" forming a kind of echolalic 
resume of conversations instead of an intellectually digested 
narrative. The earliest speech is naturally very bald mere 
nouns and verbs; to the infant every man is "Daddy." 
Kefinements and qualifications come later, the personality 
of the speaker not being recognized for some time. The 
language used in describing a picture, as a sidelight on 
intelligence, forms one of the most differentiating tests of 
the mental level of a child in its earlier school years. The 
profound effect of good education in the mother-tongue is 
scarcely appreciated in school, being largely postponed 
until puberty, when the general adjustment of mental values 
comes and characteristics such as handwriting are formed. 

Other hearing centres also develop, and where the 
intellect has to concentrate on the interpretation of certain 
sensations great acuteness may be gained, as in the case of 
the trained musician or of the blind person who interprets 
sounds with much discrimination. 

Printed and Written Speech. For the majority of 
human beings in the past the whole of speech was spoken 
or heard. No doubt signs and gestures helped out early 
speech more than they do now. Their antiquity is shown 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 

in their general utility among all races. Sketches by cave- 
men show how early graphic records of things and deeds 
were attempted. Pictographs followed, as in the earliest 
Egyptian hieroglyphics. The cuneiform inscriptions of the 
East, which stretch over a longer period of time than 
our own alphabets, were highly conventionalized pictures. 
European alphabets have developed from hieroglyphics. 
The conventional alphabetic signs nowadays, being with- 
out intellectual content, must be learned through all 




FIG. 6. Main centres in a literate person. 

V, the word vision centre, with its lower (R and L) centres for each eye, 
and W, the graphic centre. 

possible senses. The average infant-school child learns 
letters and forgets them in half an hour. Words are 
recognized both by their letters and by their general form. 
The beginner spells out the word, recognizing each part 
of every letter, but the practised reader sees the word 
form as a logogram. The memory of this word-image is 
stored up in the visual word centre. The mode of recog- 
nition of a word seen is on a similar plan to a word 
heard. An image of the word seen by the eye is trans- 



SPEECH 33 

ferred to the visual brain cortex of the right and left 
occipital lobes, and from there to the word vision centre in 
the left angular gyrus, whence it reaches the intellect to be 
apperceived. From this intellectual centre the motor centre 
may be set going immediately, as in reading aloud, or more 
remotely, as when the old man recounts the talk of his boy- 
hood days. Occasional mistakes of children hurriedly read- 
ing are the substitution of words pronounced for those seen, 
e.g. "up" for "down," "monarch" for " king," "stick" 
for " staff," showing that there is this still higher centre, 
beyond the mere seeing and hearing mechanisms, exer- 
cising a choice. 

Words Written. A centre for writing movements is 
generally postulated in the same region as the centre for the 
right hand muscles. It is a centre for motor memories of 
word forms, and develops soon after or almost with the 
visual word centre. Here again written speech, much later 
developed in the history of the race, is also later acquired 
by the individual. A considerable number of people, too, 
are still so unevolved as regards these centres that 
they will never be able to make fluent use of written or 
printed speech. At least 2 per cent, of the elementary 
school population never attain intelligent use of this func- 
tion. Probably 5 per cent, will never give a return for 
teaching, and any number up to about 10 per cent, put it to 
so little use in later life, beyond signing their names, that 
prolonged attempts at literary education exclude time for 
more useful knowledge. 

Development of the writing faculty in the child begins 
by spontaneous attempts at drawing, at first mere meaning- 
less scrawls, followed by recognizable but strangely con- 
ventional drawings. Education of high value and clear 
thoughts are bound up with this expressive work. A stage 
of mimic reading comes, when the little body delights 
in pretending to read or in scrawling mimic epistles 

3 



34 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Ultimately, at about four years of age printed letters appear 
almost spontaneously, usually capitals, then the name, often 
with many or all the letters reversed. Some of the earliest 
inscriptions known are written from right to left, as many 
Oriental languages still are. Later a period with alternat- 
ing direction of lines follows, this stage being often seen 
in children who print alternately normal and reversed, 
as a step from the mirrored to normal. In a few cases, 
often in feeble-minded, mirror writing persists till quite 
late in school-life. In ordinary schoolwork a simplified 
script would perhaps be the simplest to begin the teaching. 
Capitals are used generally by children who pick them 
up early by imitation or from others in the family. 

In addition to these main forms of speech memories, 
knowledge is also got from actual memory of the speaking 
movements. In the deaf this is developed as a visual 
memory for lip-reading, and every one lip-reads to some 
extent ; but usually hearing and word vision preponderate, 
and one more than the other, so that individuals may be 
classed as visuals or auditives. The visual, commonest 
after nine or ten years of age, gets most knowledge from 
reading, pictures, and maps ; the auditive, commoner at 
earlier ages, from speech, conversation, and lectures. 
Sometimes in a bus or tram people can be seen reading the 
papers and helping out a defective word vision centre by 
the lip movements of silent reading. They are either badly 
educated visuals or strong auditives who have had to call 
in the kinesthetic sense (combined movement and feeling) 
of the muscular action of the lips. Cases with poorly 
developed word vision centres may not be able to learn to 
recognize words, and there are all varieties from mere 
congenital bad spellers to actual inborn word-blindness. 
Although congenital bad spellers are so common that 
almost every school has one, bad spelling is more commonly 
due to bad teaching than to this defect. Spelling reform 



SPEECH 35 

is a most necessary thing merely to relieve the burden 
on the English learner. Perfectly normal ordinary vision 
is the rule in all these cases, even when congenitally 
word-blind. 

The auditory word centre, being much earlier in in- 
dividual and racial development than the visual centre, ia 
not nearly so liable to physiological variation. Congenital 
word-deafness, without deafness for other sounds or 
music, exists, but it is extremely rare. It is important 
to recognize this, as such a child may be quite intelligent 
and yet cut off from all human knowledge. In the past 
cases of this kind have been treated as imbecile. 

An interesting exercise may be suggested here to the 
student, that is, to attempt to chart out the various used 
and unused paths and centres involved in spontaneous 
speech. Copying from a book, silent reading, reading aloud, 
writing from dictation, the conditions of congenital word- 
blindness, congenital word-deafness, learning to read by 
word-building or by the phonic system, and so on, being 
worked out by diagrams, the knowledge will be of great 
utility later to those who have to teach such subjects. 

The child usually learns letters as a muscular memory, 
hence the bigger the letters the better. Letter-blindness, 
being helped out by muscular memories, is very much 
rarer than word-blindness; single signs, Arabic numbers, 
and all combinations of figures are generally well re- 
cognized. A child who failed to learn letters knew some 
gipsy signs, and a capital delta A meant to her " They 
have a dog there." The word-blind can nearly always write 
their own name correctly ; it is a logogram to them, and 
the equivalent of a single sign. 

Defective Speech. Slight speech defect among younger 
children may be regarded as physiological retardation. Many 
children, however, after passing through the standards, 
at the age of fourteen leave school and still express them- 



36 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

selves in such crudely formed language and with such 
defective enunciation that they can only be understood 
with difficulty. Cases are noticed of imperfectly formed or 
substituted speech, as lalling or lisping. There is a com- 
paratively rare form where the individual speaks so rapidly 
and with such badly formed sounds that they are nearly 
unintelligible. Other cases present mechanical defects, as 
cleft palate, nasal obstruction, adenoids, and so on. Idio- 
glossia, where the child appears to speak a language of its 
own, is seen in young children occasionally who have not 
learned their elementary sounds properly. 

Stammering. This is the commonest defect, and con- 
sidering its serious effect on the child, it is still strangely 
neglected by educational authorities. Stammerers are as 
numerous, and probably a hundred times more valuable 
nationally, than the class of feeble-minded on whom so 
much effort and cost at present is almost wasted. About 
a half per cent, of girls at all ages, and from a half per cent, 
of boys in infant schools to 3 or more per cent, of boys 
in the top standards, are to be counted as stammerers. It 
is purely a functional nervous disorder. Family predis- 
position towards nervous defects, and particularly stam- 
mering, is the chief point noted. Shock, accidents, or 
illness frequently bring out, and sometimes improved 
general health appears to diminish, the tendency. The 
defect appears more common in Germany, where the 
people are notoriously nervous, and where it seems to be 
developed by the forced articulatory explosive manner of 
producing consonants taught in school. 

Suggestion or imitation will also sometimes bring it out. 
The educational methods of treatment by various breathing 
and vocal exercises are largely imitational and suggestive, 
and depend greatly on the personality of the teacher, who 
can make almost any method a success if he is firmly per- 
suaded of its value. A stammerer should have his vocal 



SPEECH 



37 



sounds analysed, so that he can be shown where his 
difficulties come. The vowels being voiced are scarcely 
ever a source of trouble ; it is on voiceless explosive sounds 
associated with the maximum articulatory effort, like P, T, 
K, that the commonest stumbles are made, but in special 
cases any of the consonantal sounds may be found trouble- 
some. It is a functional disturbance, as the machinery of 
breath and voice is complete. There is rarely any hitch in 
singing, for the stammerer can usually intone, and often an 
after-dinner speech is faultless. Many have acquired bad 
habits, speaking, for instance, from an empty chest. The 
stammer itself is mostly exaggerated articulatory effort. The 
analysis of voice sounds and their articulatory mechanism 
is much aided by using a physiological alphabet for con- 
sonantal sounds, such as that of Dr. J. Wyllie. 





FlBST 




THIRD 




STOP 


SECOND STOP POSITION. 


STOP 




POSITION. 




POSITION. 




Labials. 


Labio- 
dentals. 


Linguo- 
dentals. 


Anterior 
Linguo- 
palatals. 


Posterior 
Linguo- 
palatals. 


Voiceless 


P 


F 


s 


T 


K 


Oral. 




Th 


Sh 


H or Ch 


Voiced 


B 


V 


7 


D ! G 


Oral. 




Th* 


Zh 










L R 




Voiced 
Nasal. 


M 






N 


Ng 



Voiceless Th as in Thin, the voiced oral Th* as in Those. 



If, then, stammering is taken to be a nervous inco- 
ordination in the oral and laryngeal mechanisms, with 



38 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

excessive articulatory efforts without properly voiced 
sounds at the same time, it can be regarded as a habit 
rather than as a disease. It can be cured, obviously, by 
any means of breaking the habit. This may be sudden, 
as by hypnotic suggestion, or gradual, by instruction and 
cultivation of other habits of articulation and voice produc- 
tion. Every teacher can manage to make the stammerer 
sound all the vowels and allow him if necessary to elide 
consonants. When by the physiological alphabet and test 
sentences the difficulties are known, these difficulties can 
be avoided at first and gradually led up to and ultimately 
overcome. 

It is bad to draw attention repeatedly to stammering, or 
to give any punishment, or to frequently test the pupil with 
the view to see how he is progressing. These methods 
actually give suggestions in the direction of harm, and 
tend to undo the benefit of any remedial education. The 
pupil's extremely conscious efforts at the details of speech 
have to become imitative, then automatic, and finally 
entirely subconscious, before any cure is attained, and 
therefore the less the attention is directed to faults the 
sooner the habit will be broken. 

Left-handedness. The two hemispheres of the brain 
are each intimately related to the opposite side of the body. 
The peculiarly human faculty of speech, as already seen, 
has its brain centres generally in the left hemisphere, 
where are also the centres for the right hand. From 4 to 
5 per cent, of people show some degree of left-handed- 
ness, and in rare cases, through the results of disease in 
later life, the speech centres are found to have been de- 
veloped on the right side of the brain. This sinistrality 
is of deep origin, running through all nervous actions : the 
left foot will be used to kick with, the hair will be parted 
on the opposite side to that which is usual, the left eye will 
be used mostly in fixing objects, and so on. Such ten- 



SPEECH 39 

dencies are inborn, often strongly hereditary the " Kerr- 
handedness " of Scotland and manifest themselves in the 
earliest years. More boys than girls are sinistral, and the 
numbers diminish during school-life. A very few children 
are ambidextrous, but this is generally from want of suffi- 
cient development of one side, so that they are usually 
otherwise backward and really ambisinistral. A left hand 
writing in normal script goes thumb first, not thumb last, 
as in the right-handed, and if the anatomically correspond- 
ing movements of normal writing are made with the left 
hand, a reversed script mirror writing is the result. 
Indeed, to a normal person using the left hand, mirror 
is easier than normal writing. Mirror writing with the 
right hand is occasionally a stage in ordinary childish 
development, but often persists till late in dull or defective 
children. For children over ten a test of setting them to 
write with the left hand has been proposed, and it is found 
that the dull ones rarely make the necessary adjustments, 
and write mirrorwise. It is often asserted that left-handed- 
ness predisposes to stammering, also a hereditary flaw, 
common in boys, but increasing during school-life. A 
direct association is probably not real, although it is stated 
that attempts to make sinistrals use the right hand tends 
to develop stammering. It is worth while attempting in 
school to bring the young left-hander to practise right 
ways, considering that tools and traffic arrangements in 
our busy life are all devised for the right-handed, but the 
attempt might prove mischievous in very marked cases of 
sinistrality. 

Ambidexterity. This has been advocated as an educa- 
tional aim, but except as a variation in free arm drawing 
in very early life, which perhaps may help to a wider space 
perception, it is to be regarded as purely a crank, if not 
actually harmful and time-wasting. 



CHAPTEE III 

AGE AND SEX IN RELATION TO SCHOOLWOBK 

AGE has a most important bearing on the character, 
amount, and distribution of the work to be given to 
children. During the period of childhood, including up 
to the end of the seventh year, more rapid changes are 
taking place than at any subsequent period of life. At 
seven years old a child weighs about six times as much 
as at birth, and has more than half the stature and one- 
third of the weight of an adult, while its brain at the same 
age has attained nearly its full size. This does not, of 
course, imply that it is fully developed. Practically no book 
work should be attempted during this period. Education 
is not confined to schools. From the first moment of life 
education in the best sense commences, and makes rapid 
strides. The senses become trained, and the powers of 
observation are perhaps keener than at any subsequent 
period, while the mind is becoming stored with impressions 
which form the groundwork of subsequent mental life. 

Capacity for Training. In the simplest discussion of 
the training of a growing child, the unit for consideration 
is the nerve cell, which comprises the cell body and its 
short processes the dendrons, its long process the nerve, 
the whole structure being called a neurone. All actions 
are the result of functioning of neurones, which again 
results from some stimulus reaching them either directly 
from sense organs or indirectly through other neurones. 

40 



AGE AND SEX IN SCHOOLWORK 41 

The individual cell, which at first is incapable of func- 
tioning, with growth develops so that it can produce certain 
effects in a crude way, not reacting promptly to a simple 
stimulus, but along with numerous other neurones in its 
neighbourhood as the result of some strong stimulus which 
also influences these to a greater or less extent. Irregular 
badly controlled and inco-ordinate movements result, with 
consequent rapid exhaustion, the cell being as yet too 
immature for economical and effective education. 

At a later stage of growth, development is much aided 
by occasional exercise, and the neurone is capable of exact 
functioning, then attaining the condition for most effec- 
tive education, but still undergoing comparatively rapid 
exhaustion. 

With full growth the neurone should be capable of long 
continued and exact work, and in this stage is mature. 
It has now passed beyond the need or possibility of further 
education, and to work it with this view is wasted effort. 

The neurone best suited for educational development 
should be frequently but not too continuously worked, for 
when benefiting educationally it is undergoing fatigue. 
Even a very immature cell can be educated, but it is at 
the expense of wasteful training and rapid exhaustion. 
There is no royal road to learning, and efficient education 
always implies the exertion of effort and the production 
of fatigue, but should never be exhausting. 

Order of Development of Nerve Cells. The cell 
groups pass through these stages at different times. The 
first neurones to attain maturity represent the earliest 
acquired reactions, which are those oldest in the history 
of the race, reflexes inherited from time immemorial ; next 
the largest and coarsest movements and crude sensations, 
which are most permanent, soon attain maturity, and are 
least amenable to education. The finer muscular move- 
ments of the smaller muscles, lastly of the fingers, and the 



42 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

finer indications of the special senses come later, about the 
middle of school-life, and are most capable of training by 
educational methods in the first half of school-life. The 
complex co-ordinations which are practised during school- 
life become as mature actions almost unconscious reflexes, 
e.g. the mechanical part of reading and writing, the pose 
of the head and carriage of the body. The complex inter- 
pretation and intellectual appreciation of sights and sounds 
are very late acquirements, and pass into the fully educated 
condition in the last half of school-life, and during the next 
ten years are still capable of educational development, 
and, so far as relates to the highest functions, for many 
subsequent years. 

In the last half of school-life, in the widest sense, the 
higher intellectual co-ordinations of sensations and move- 
ments are being grouped into the most complex ideals and 
memories. 

To attain this end the highest intellectual centres 
require to be educated by hard work with conscious 
mental effort. 

At the age of three the child may be taken to have 
learned to stand and walk. It may at this age still require 
to have these co-ordinations trained. Coarse muscular 
exercise in moderate amount and frequently repeated daily 
for short times, as marching, hopping, jumping, standing 
first on one leg, then on the other, and so forth, are useful 
forms of training at this time of life. The movements of 
the eyes in watching distant objects should be chiefly used, 
and until five years of age only the coarse muscle move- 
ments, such as are concerned in running, jumping, and 
swimming, and those of the shoulder girdle and arms 
should be definitely worked, and only coarse eye work 
attempted. 

Working with Small Objects in Infant Schools. - 
If children in the infant school are allowed to work with 



AGE AND SEX IN SCHOOLWORK 43 

small objects they cannot possibly be prevented from 
forming the habit of working at too near a distance ; 
and if they are allowed to do fine work it is impossible for 
teachers to make them sit up from their work. Such work 
also implies fine finger work, and the nerve groupings 
which are concerned with finger work are so immature that 
children under six can only do it inco-ordinately and badly 
and with immense strain and rapid exhaustion (see also 
p. 151). 

Children at this stage, that is, four to six or seven years 
of age, should never be allowed near eye work or finger 
work ; for such children the only graphic forms permissible 
are chalk drawing and writing on the blackboard, while 
work with sand trays, big bricks or sticks, big beads or 
shells, should entirely replace any finer work. The 
Kindergarten employment known as " embossing," whereby 
the area enclosed by an outline on a piece of paper laid on 
a pad of felt is pricked over by a needle in a holder, is one 
of the severest strains ever imposed on children. It is 
fortunately dropping out of use now, but sewing with 
needle and thread is still allowed. 

Nerve strain in practice can be seen at any time in 
an infant school if a class be carefully observed, without 
interruption from the teacher. Although Kindergarten 
embossing is the severest strain, sewing will be quite 
sufficient to point the way for observation of this kind. 

A class of girls under seven set to sew may be placed 
in a correct attitude, sitting upright with the light falling 
from behind and from the left. They will maintain this 
attitude for a period to be measured by seconds rather 
than minutes. Sewing involves fine eye work; it should 
be done intuitively almost without the eye, but that is after 
education ; by the learning child, who is often incapable 
of threading the needle owing to its normal condition of 
long-sightedness (p. 149), the sewing is done by watching 



44 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

the needle point, a comparatively small object, on a back- 
ground which does not improve its visibility. 

For reasons given the child brings its eyes and the needle 
within 4 or 5 inches distance of each other, and no teacher 
can be expected to prevent this in the infant school. But 
the material is held in the hands, and the mere holding 
up of the hands long continued is a strain no child can 
maintain ; it therefore crouches so that the elbows can come 
either on knees or abdomen. The work of managing the 
needle is fine muscle work for the fingers, and these muscle 
centres in the brain, being comparatively immature, can only 
be kept at work by excessive working strain. This excess 
of effort overflows to adjoining brain centres, and causes 
through them the continual twisting of body and neck 
and grimaces which young children subjected to this 
unsuitable task will occasionally be seen to make, some 
of course being much worse than others. These nerve 
signs tell of exhaustion and wasteful expenditure of 
nerve energy. Children showing them are suffering 
temporarily from the strain of over-pressure, for over- 
pressure is less likely to be quantitative than qualitative. 
For such children, therefore, sewing involves educational 
overpressure. 

Lower Limit of Age for School Attendance. English 
regulations fix the compulsory school age at five, a year 
earlier than the general European average. Schooling in the 
sense of purely teaching the three R's is a folly below the 
age of six to seven. Although Madame Montessori has 
demonstrated the possibility of a mechanical acquaintance 
with work which constitutes the tools of education at quite 
early ages, yet the child who learns to read without under- 
standing is more likely to hate than love literature in 
later life. It is argued, however, that children at early 
ages cannot learn efficiently. This is entirely wrong, pro- 
vided suitable courses and occupations are prepared for 



AGE AND SEX IN SCHOOLWORK 45 

them. Children have nearly learned a language before 
entering the school, and learn more in the years three to 
five than in the same space of time at any subsequent 
period. The attempt to get work out of non-existent organs, 
however, will mean failure, and even immature tissues may 
and do suffer. Precocious work in plastic childhood prob- 
ably hinders the due course of development and tends to 
mediocrity of later and higher functions in full age, The 
remedy for the ills of early and unsuitable schooling lies in 
a modification of the work in infant schools in the rigid 
avoidance of literary work below the age of six ; in the 
teaching of habits of cleanliness, respect, and courtesy ; and 
in the training of developing muscular and sensory func- 
tions. Play, exercise, sleep, and food, with good articulation 
and correct expression of meaning in actual speech, are the 
chief things here. Nutrition is the be-all and end-all of the 
child life before the age of seven, to which other things 
must be subsidiary. 

A weightier objection to infant schools is that they 
propagate disease and death by spreading such childish 
affections as measles, whooping-cough, scarlatina, and 
diphtheria. In country districts this is more influential 
than in town. There, too, wet feet and the winter season 
may have additional risks, making school not worth while 
to the country youngster. Every child requires to gain as 
much protection as possible from these zymotic diseases, 
but general experience shows that measles, for instance, 
occurs on an average three or four years later among better- 
class children than among the poor, although all classes use 
schools. Even apart from risk of infection, large schools 
for young children should be replaced by smaller and more 
home-like centres, where the child could develop its 
individuality, instead of feeling merely a unit in a herd. 
Small schools or creche schools, to be efficient in this way, 
would be comparatively expensive, as they should not 



46 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

accommodate more than twenty-five to thirty pupils. Apart 
from expense, they are so desirable educationally that they 
may be said to be almost a necessity. 

It might be desirable to fix limits not only of age, but 
also of physique as expressed in height and weight, below 
which no child should be admitted to school without 
express medical sanction. 

Physical Measurements. Useful information as to 
whether a child is keeping in good health may be obtained 
by weighings at intervals of a few weeks. Weighing and 
measuring at long intervals, as usually done in schools, 
is, however, of no practical use to any child, and a waste 
in its cost. Height should be measured in centimetres 
when the child is standing erect, in stockinged feet, and 
with the head evenly poised. A measuring rod against the 
room wall should be used with a sliding rectangular head- 
piece. The adjustment of the rod is of importance, since 
errors of a centimetre or more are to be found in rods fixed 
in schools when they are retested. Weighings should be 
done to the nearest tenth of a kilogram, in ordinary clothes 
without shoes. A steelyard balance with sliding weights 
is best, and it should be frequently tested. These measure- 
ments, being recognized as of little value, appear to be 
done in a most perfunctory way in many cases, as when 
retested by later work many individual discrepancies are 
found. If children are being repeatedly weighed a fixed 
time of day, say between eleven and twelve o'clock, is best. 
The age in years and months and the date should always 
be noted. 

Other measurements are anthropological refinements, 
only wanted in special inquiries. Chest girth at the end 
of expiration and the difference between inspiration and 
expiration are the most commonly noted as having a bearing 
on vitality. 
The general facts of growth as determined for the English 



eto i ( 84 I ? t * * M ft K II 1* f? It It fll it B M nvw 

IBS, 




A6EO 1 2 34 b 6 7 8 10 11 12 18 14 16 18 T7 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25YRS 



FIG. 7. Chart showing average stature, weight, chest girth, and 
strength of both sexes, from birth to twenty-five years of age, 
of the general population of the United Kingdom. 



Males 



Females 



48 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



population are set out in Fig. 7, taken by permission from 
the Life History Album of Charles Eoberts. The next 
table has been prepared by collating reports of school 
measurements. 



294,946 BOYS. 



289,674 GIRLS. 



Age last 
. Birth- 
day. 


(Numbers. 


Height. 
Cm. 


Weight. 
Kilos. 


Numbers. 


Height. 
Cm. 


Weight. 
Kilos. 


3 


9,388 


92-4 


14-86 


8,478 


91-6 


14-44 


4 


24,047 


98-2 


16-29 


21,362 


98-1 


15-82 


5 


65,438 


103-0 


17-54 


63,825 


102-6 


17-07 


6 


20,554 


108-0 


19-33 


21,238 


107-6 


18-58 


7 


37,515 


114-7 


21-20 


36,477 


113-9 


20-50 


8 


9,684 


119-3 


22-86 


12,014 


117-6 


22-14 


9 


7,873 


124-7 


25-12 


8,138 


123-7 


24-75 


10 


21,579 


129-4 


27-42 


21,017 


129-8 


26-71 


11 


5,084 


134-2 


29-93 


5,129 


133-5 


29-59 


12 


37,230 


139-8 


33-05 


36,577 


138-7 


33-51 


13 


52,232 


142-5 


35-15 


50,717 


144-5 


36-31 


14 


4,342 


147-1 


38-15 


3,702 


149-0 


39-81 



Table collated from about 584,000 measurements of English elementary 
school children by Drs. Tuxford and Glegg. 

This table only applies to elementary school children, and 
is given to show the way general development goes on ; it 
is of scanty use otherwise, and in particular cases might 
be misleading. Any figures regarding qualities of school 
children, especially if intended to be used for purposes of 
comparison, must always be given with strict regard to age 
and sex distribution and even time of year. Unfortunately, 
the millions of facts recorded are comparatively valueless 
from this defect. In Aberdeen in 1912 the boys of thirteen 
seemed 4-2 and the girls 5*5 pounds lighter than the 
previous year, but it was merely dates of examination had 
not coincided, so that the average ages were considerably 
altered. The Medical Officer of that city rightly says in 
regard to the statutory records, " This annual accumulation 



AGE AND SEX IN SCHOOLWORK 



49 



of figures is a rubbish heap of little value for statistics, and 
worthless for the purposes of comparison. Till there is 
some uniformity in method, the time spent in taking 
measurements and working out calculations is time wasted." 
The mass statistics of school children published in regard to 
such qualities are practically meaningless, and it is one of 
the most difficult tasks to get sets of data regarding heights 
and weights which are scientifically comparable. Measure- 
ments from the East End of London with its alien races 
cannot be compared for social purposes in any legitimate 
way with those from North London, nor these again with 




FIG. 8. Increase of average height with each standard in children 
of the same age-groups. (Table, p. 50.) 

the somewhat different races in South London. A few 
years ago an attempt to show the effect of care and diet- 
ing by comparing ordinary Leeds children with Jewish 
children in that city was absolutely misleading in neglect- 
ing racial precocity. Eacial distinctions, and heredity 
expressed in social levels, must be first eliminated, as they 
outweigh any environmental conditions. Indeed, physio- 
logical precocity of purely Jewish children is so great that 
they should be handicapped by a year, in scholarship or 
other tests, in competition with English children. 

In regard to children otherwise comparable, height seems 

4 



50 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



proportionate to intellectual development. All analyses 
show that in any age group the higher the school standard 
of the children the greater will be their average height. 
This is, however, only to be taken as an expression of 
physiological precocity and being generally in advance of 
the average all round ; it is of such interest that the 
analysis of 4,164 elementary school girls may be given : 



Frontiers of 
abnormal. 


Age. 


St. I. 


St. II. 


St. III. 


St. IV. 


St.V. 


St. VI. 


St. VII. 


140 


14-15 








_ 


151-4 


153-1 


154-2 


135 


13-14 








1368 


142-8 


146-2 


148-5 


150-2 


130 


12-13 





132-4 


135-7 


139-7 


140-8 


145-1 


145-4 


124 


11-12 





132-6 


131-1 


135-8 


138-7 


138-9 


145-0 


120 


10-11 


125-4 


125-8 


129-2 


132-4 


133-5 


135-1 





115 


9-10 


124-2 


122-3 


126-3 


129-5 


130-7 


132-0 





110 


8-9 


115-9 


121-5 


123-1 


125-2 





127-0 





105 


7-8 


110-1 


117-0 


117'3 


120-0 












Average heights of the various age groups, in the different standards, 
for 4,164 London E.S. girls measured in 1906. First column, " Parit 
children" 

In front of this table a column not strictly comparable 
with it, and therefore in heavy type, has been put, which 
was determined for Parisian children by Binet and Simon, 
and which they term the frontier of abnormality, these 
limits practically never being overstepped by mentally 
normal children in Paris, but by possibly 10 per cent, 
of the mentally defective. 

Professor Baldwin, who has made a long continuous 
study of the growth and school progress of many individual 
children in two good schools of Chicago and New York, 
would assess children under five parallel " ages " : Chrono- 
logical age in years and months, physiological age in growth 
and maturity, mental age in intellectual capacity and ability, 
pedagogical age in school standing, and a moral or religious 



AGE AND SEX IN SCHOOLWORK 51 

age. The last two, however, may only be properly sub- 
divisions of the third. He also finds that the taller, heavier, 
and physiologically more accelerated children complete the 
elementary school at an earlier age and with a higher 
average mark than the short, light, or physiologically back- 
ward boys or girls. 

The fluctuations in growth differ in tall and short children. 
Those above the average begin and end their periods of 
acceleration and arrest earlier than those below ; thus the 
greatest growth increments in height begin at twelve in 
boys and ten and a half in girls above the average, and 
continue till fifteen and a half for boys and thirteen for 
girls, whilst for those below the average the greatest 
average acceleration in height begins at fourteen for boys 
and eleven and a half for girls, and continues till seventeen 
and a half for boys and fifteen and a half for girls. 

The supervision of individual children by regular records 
of height and weight would be of value in many cases and 
is the rule in invalid schools. They should be charted at 
least monthly, and this could often be made an interesting 
and ordinary school subject for the pupils themselves, and 
serve as a stimulus to health in the home. Any strain will 
retard development, and the first year of school life usually 
shows some slowing of growth. Overwork in school may 
be signalized in this way, and in the Eussian High Schools 
the prolonged examinations have been shown to result in 
loss of weight for most of the pupils. 

Loss of weight is often an early and suspicious sign of 
the insidious onset of tuberculosis. Illness of any kind, 
even an operation for adenoids, may mean temporary 
arrest of growth, sometimes made up by rapid gain during 
convalescence. Early illnesses seem most effective in 
retardation. 

Co-education. The general principle of educating boys 
and girls in the same school classes has not been discussed, 



52 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

as it is largely a matter of pedagogical experience. From 
the physical reasons already given, whilst up to eight or 
nine years of age there appears no objection to co-educa- 
tion, above these ages the precocity of the girls comes in, 
whilst after the primary school age the difference in the 
work done will emphasize difficulties, especially where pupils 
cannot be treated individually, but have to be considered in 
large classes. Except in poorly populated districts with 
small schools, where it has been an economical expedient, 
co-education has scarcely had any extensive trial, and there 
appear no special hygienic reasons to recommend it for 
adoption. 

Crops of Children. Dr. C. J. Thomas has shown, by 
measuring children in one particular district, not much 
subject to migration, that crops of children were found 
the relatively tallest belonging to years of low infant 
mortality, and the shortest to years with a high infant 
death-rate for that district. 

Measurements recorded at Eugby, Marlborough, and 
Manchester show that the present boys are bigger than 
the generation of their parents. Copenhagen scholars 
and the conscripts of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden show 
similar increase in later stature. It is probably accounted 
for by the general diminution in recent years in infantile 
and childish diseases having permitted a higher average 
development. Tables for standards of normal growth 
should exclude diseased children. The table already given, 
made up of entrants and leavers with those of an inter- 
mediate year, and also the " specials" of other years that 
is, children presented on account of some diseased condi- 
tion shows no great variation in measure for these last 
ages. Apparently the conditions for which " specials " 
are presented are so trivial that they do not affect their 
physique as compared with the other children, if the total 
mass has not obliterated all details. There is also obliter- 



AGE AND SEX IN SCHOOLWORK 53 

ated in these tables what is, for schoolwork, practically of 
greater importance than any of the gross average measures, 
and that is the seasonal variation in rate of growth. 
Increase of weight is great in summer and autumn, slower 
in winter, and almost arrested in spring ; heights follow a 
nearly reverse rule. 

The effects on physique of the open-air schools, when 
held in summer and autumn months only, and estimated 
by the growth in weight during this period as compared 
with that of normally healthy children over the whole 
year, formerly led to an overestimate of the effect of such 
schools on weight. In an institution where weights were 
being regularly recorded, loss of weight was asserted as 
the result of school lunches being started, a result to be 
discounted as wholly due to this seasonal variation showing 
up in the spring. Measurements of a school taken in 
spring and in autumn might thus give different growth 
curves for the same children. 

When a child is growing rapidly in height, probably his 
powers of mental application greatly diminish ; he is dull 
and apathetic, wants to sit about aimlessly, and perhaps 
lays himself open to censure which might have been 
averted if the teacher had noted or considered the rate 
of growth. During the same periods developmental faults, 
to be discussed later, such as spinal curvature, flat foot, 
and short-sightedness, are apt to progress and become 
evident. On the other hand, during the period of increase 
in weight, usually the best season of the year, illness is 
said to lessen and school attendance to be good. 

Bowditch, who first made extensive observations, sum- 
marized his tables of growth for American children as 
follows : 

(1) During the first twelve years of life boys are from 
one to two inches taller than girls of the same age. 

(2) At about twelve years girls begin to grow faster 



54 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

than boys, and during their fourteenth year are about one 
inch taller than boys of the same age. 

(3) At about fourteen and a half boys again become 
taller, girls having at this period very nearly completed 
their growth, while boys continue to grow till about nine- 
teen years of age. 



CHAPTEE IV 

THE OPEN AIR 

A GENERATION ago the diagnosis of consumption was almost 
equivalent to a sentence of death, later the open-air treat- 
ment was introduced, and now the outlook for a consumptive 
is even hopeful. 

We no longer sleep in nightcaps. The day of the four- 
poster bed with its curtains is gone, and although in 
Scotland the press or box bed still exists, it is vanishing 
and taking with it a fertile cause of disease and death. 
The movement for fresh air has extended beyond the 
consumptive to other invalids and to schools. 

It is useful to consider the popular ideas and explana- 
tions of the common happenings of daily life, and when 
these happenings are the result of vague feelings, sensa- 
tions, emotions, or desires, the underlying ideas are usually 
deeply rooted in the past. Although two or three genera- 
tions mark the urban life of the race, and as many 
hundreds the duration of civilization from what may be 
called the state of nature, this itself is the result of 
hundreds and thousands of generations. The ancient 
man is no more likely to have suffered from colds than 
other animals, but he gained freedom from risk of other 
animals' incursions and had a feeling of comfort and 
safety at the side of a fire. With a solid mass behind him, 
whether tree or rock or earth, he was no doubt more 
secure, so that the comfort of warmth and of snugness is 

55 



56 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

joined with a sense of safety and is probably a very ancient 
relic of feeling, and unobjectionable under the conditions 
in which it developed, in the open air. The idea of 
catching cold from night air is a more recent one, asso- 
ciated with populous communities. The " cold " is due to 
microbes which only get their chance when some of the 
protective mechanisms are out of gear. Colds are not 
caught in the middle of the Atlantic, and none of the 
members during the long night of the last Antarctic 
Expedition had a cold till a bag of clothing was opened. 
The history of consumption is similar; tuberculosis was 
comparatively rare among the fishermen of Norway and 
Labrador, who had to work in open boats and stoveless 
sheds, but with the coming of close American stoves 
to heat their sheds, into which they crowd, and the 
heated cabins of petrol- driven boats, consumption has 
increased. 

The story of the fresh air comes out indirectly in the 
Eeports of the Registrar-General, where the length of 
life of each class of the community is seen to be almost 
directly related to their access to the open air, and if 
deaths from respiratory diseases only are considered the 
effect is still more marked. At one end of the scale stand 
the farmer and the agriculturalist, whose deaths may be 
taken as 100; shopkeepers, generally, jump up to 150; 
shoemakers and drapers, who usually follow sedentary 
work in close places, reach 200 ; whilst printers and book- 
binders, whose low-roofed and stuffy workplaces are 
notorious, rise to 240. 

For countless ages, then, mankind has lived mostly in 
the open, sheltered by trees or caves from occasional 
periods of bad weather, but with a history as town or 
house dweller of comparatively few generations. He is 
not yet adapted to close confinement, and in the plastic 
period, during youth, suffers most severely. A reversion 



THE OPEN AIR 57 

to nature " the simple life" has been the cry of many 
philosophers and educators for years, and not without 
cause ; for it is in great cities, where our social system 
allows a few to hold the ground, and as rent to take a 
large proportion of the earnings of others, that the children, 
especially of the poor, through this suffer physically to an 
enormous extent. Air is a necessity, as one American 
writer puts it, which goes with the land, and wherever one 
man has too much land, others have too little air. It is 
said that every great diamond has cost much blood, and 
equally it might be said that every ducal rent-roll in a 
town is annually costing many lost or damaged lives, 
especially among babies and young children. 

Kecently systems of education have been advocated in 
which the children spend much time in the open air, but 
as yet, from want of space, lamentably few children come 
under these methods, which are equally and advantageously 
applicable to nearly all. The few provided for in this way 
have generally been debilitated or diseased, but even with 
this unpromising material good general results have 
always been obtained. 

Open-air Schools. The open-air school originated at 
Charlottenburg in 1904, where, starting from the idea of the 
sanatorium for consumptives, there was planned the original 
" Forest School " for debilitated, anaemic, or tuberculously 
disposed children. Kecently a secondary school on similar 
lines has been started where children who pay considerable 
fees, whilst becoming healthier, are able in twenty-five- 
minute lessons to keep up the same curriculum as the 
ordinary schools with forty-minute lessons. 

Designed to further natural physical and mental develop- 
ment by the removal of all possible hindrances, the open- 
air school breaks away at once from the usual academic 
course of learning, which is a survival of the old Elizabethan 
grammar school with its false ideals of educational values, 



58 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

an academic rut from which we have not yet got free. Pari 
passu with separation from this rut is success assured. 

The requisite conditions for healthy growth and develop- 
ment are (1) food in abundance, (2) cool moving air to 
disperse the heat and moisture from the skin, (3) free and 
intermittently violent exercise to stimulate function in 
various organs and promote lymph circulation, (4) rest, time 
or tissue repair, the organization of thought, and the 
avoidance of fatigue. These are the main needs of children 
in education ; others are subsidiary, and any one of these 
failing, the child is deprived of natural requirements and, 
indeed, natural rights. In elementary schools most children 
fail in one or more of these needs, and in some of the poorer 
districts many children may fail in all. 

The Charlottenburg model of school gives the children 
three good meals a day ; three should always be required. 
Where a dinner is given to replace the midday meal owing 
to distance from home, it is often insufficient, especially 
with debilitated or possibly tuberculous children. Meals 
brought from home should never be allowed, as they are 
rarely suitable. It is common experience that some articles 
of diet are refused at first by children, but if persisted with, 
after two or three refusals to more than taste the ration, 
it is generally eaten. 

The fresh cool moving air ventilates (see Ventilation), 
and in removing heat and moisture from the skin has also 
powerful tonic effects, and the due heat removal aids 
metabolism so that nutrition improves, and chronic sores 
and discharges sometimes of long standing tend to heal. 
Clothing warm enough to prevent actual chilling of the skin 
surface should be worn, and dry shod feet are necessary. 
Wooden pattens such as are used in the rainy Faroe 
Islands by the women would be very useful to step into 
and keep the feet dry ; clogs have disadvantages. The 
children soon get used to the cool air, and are less liable to 



THE OPEN AIR 59 

colds or infectious diseases than other children, but damp 
and cold are to be remembered as risky for rheumatism. 
Blankets, rugs, or sleeping-bags are usually provided. In 
Chicago the children have " Eskimo suits " for winter. 

There is usually plenty of exercise in the coming and 
going and constant movement of open-air work. For games, 
running and jumping, " follow my leader " in bursts, and 
obstacle races are all of interest, and to be usefully em- 
ployed. They will be much superior to any formal breathing 
exercises. Mouth-breathers should be taught to breathe 
with the mouth shut ; in fact, the mouth should never form 
part of the respiratory tract except in speaking or singing. 
The avoidance of long sitting in class is an advantage. For 
the sake of mobility, chairs and trestle tables should be used 
instead of desks. Many schools are furnished with long 
forms without backs, which tire the children. Desk work 
should be almost eliminated. There should be no formal 
writing lessons, very little reading of books, nothing of mere 
memory work, and the large proportion of school work 
which is academic lumber should be dropped wherever 
possible. In the properly managed open-air school, along 
with the increased nutrition which accompanies good feeding, 
the stimulation of the fresh air, the feeling of freedom, and 
with the rest, and free lymph circulation, absence of tired- 
ness and fatigue, there comes a strange sense of contentment, 
&joie de vivre, and a sense of fellowship in work. A goodwill 
and desire to do things and to learn, which is most impres- 
sive to those who watch the eagerness of the children, and 
the happiness reflected in their faces, are some manifestations 
of the open-air treatment. Children want to make and do ; 
here they learn to fix, construct, level, and measure, and 
acquire a real knowledge of objects and values, instead of an 
acquaintance with words and diagrams ; and more impor- 
tant still, whilst handling and doing there is sufficient time 
during the work to organize permanently ideas and con- 



60 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

cepts. This improvement in temper and spirit is often noted 
in playground classes, poor substitutes though they be 
for the opan-air school. One can still recall how during 
schooldays the time was looked forward to when there 
would be no more school tasks and no more home lessons, 
but plenty of time to do and make things. The open-air 
school in the hands of capable teachers realizes this oppor- 
tunity which the child desires. The success of the Boy 
Scout Movement depends on the same co-ordination of 
elementary spontaneous activities and ideas to definite ends. 
To the teacher, however, the work at first is strenuous and 
unremitting, and it demands originality and freshness, to 
such a degree that with extension of these schools a special 
type of teacher will arise, who must be given a free hand 
to conduct the work in his own way in detail, varying with 
weather and season, and to maintain its freshness and 
educational value, so long as general regard to fundamental 
principle is carried out. 

These educational suggestions have been referred to 
here because they involve physiological principles for the 
growing child and recognize the elementary nature of its 
psychological actions, so frequently overrated by educators. 
It was Binet who pointed out that children were pre- 
scribed by regulation to be instructed in " Cameos from 
History " at an age when they did not normally distinguish 
forenoon from afternoon. 

The bracing effect of the open air is much enhanced in 
most recent schools by the tonic results of a shower-bath 
two or three times weekly. The daily rest and sleep has 
been an accidental but most fortunate introduction ; at 
Charlottenburg the children took the midday rest, which 
is so common on the Continent that even the banks close 
for a couple of hours; this rest was introduced with the 
schools to England and America and is now universally 
accepted. It is scarcely realized that not only the de- 



THE OPEN AIR 61 

bilitated and the infant, but all rapidly growing children 
require at least an hour or more of rest, interpolated in the 
working day. The deck-chairs used for this at Charlot- 
tenburg were cramping and objectionable, and now are 
generally replaced by horizontal stretchers, on legs which 
fold flat for storage. 

Where such a school for a hundred or more children is 
instituted, if the selection made is of unhealthy, ailing, 
debilitated, and ill-nourished children, frequent visits of 
the doctor will be necessary and a nurse should be in 
regular attendance. The nurse has to remember that she 
is not only a nurse but also a school nurse, who has to be 
as original and versatile as the teacher, and should make 
her ministrations thoroughly educative. She is teaching 
the way to healthy living, and should for this purpose be 
the chief intermediary between the homes and school. 
Each child needs its health card made out, and for a 
time after entrance the temperature should be recorded 
until this has been normal for four successive days. The 
weight should be noted at weekly intervals. In working 
up these records, the seasonal variation of weight increase 
slow in spring, great in autumn must be remembered. 
In debilitated, ill-nourished children dilatation of the heart 
may occur, when the child appears ill and fatigued without 
sufficient cause. Any rapidity of pulse, breathlessness, or 
disinclination to exercise should be watched in a child 
whose heart is suspect. Children with actual tuberculosis 
of the lungs or rheumatism rarely do well in these 
schools. 

Open-air arrangements may be classified as : 

A. Open-air Schools. 

i. The open-air school or forest school (as at 
Charlottenburg), where children attend daily, 
returning home at night. 



62 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

ii. Open-air schools in towns, where children also 

sleep at night (as at Deptford). 
iii. Residential country or seaside schools, schools 
of recovery, where children can be taken into 
a fresh environment for many months. 

iv. Schools on floating hulks (as in New York). 

B. Modifications of ordinary day-school arrangements. 

i. Verandas, open-air classrooms, roof classes, 
ii. Playground classes, classes in parks and open 
spaces. 

C. Short periods of recreative variation in school arrange- 

ments, 
i. School wanderings or excursions for one or 

more days or weeks, 
ii. Vacation schools in the open, 
iii. Country holiday schemes for one or more weeks. 

These arrangements may be applied to groups of children 
selected according to health, ability, residence, age, or 
school, or, again, only the physically defective or only the 
tuberculous might be admitted. In the last cases, to 
attempt the inculcation of thrift by the fixing of any 
payment is a restriction militating against success, often 
cutting out some of the most suitable but needy cases. 

Tuberculosis Schools. In the so-called tuberculosis 
schools, if the children are markedly ill or feverish the 
institution becomes a sanatorium where medical care is 
more important than education, and although day schools 
exist for children affected by pulmonary tuberculosis, in the 
children's interest they should all be replaced by residential 
country schools. The child with pulmonary tuberculosis 
has almost certainly been infected by a phthisical adult, 
probably in its home, and recovery is more likely if removed 
from this environment. In order, however, to secure that 



THE OPEN AIR 63 

the expenditure on this removal from an infected environ- 
ment is not largely wasted, evidently action should be taken 
by sanatorium treatment of tubercular adults, for instance, 
to minimize the risk to the child on its return home. The 
tuberculous child, if its lungs are threatened, is in urgent 
and immediate need ; it should not be kept waiting months 
whilst possibly hope of recovery is daily diminishing. 
Such a child is the victim of social circumstances for 
which the State is to blame. The day school in regard 
to phthisical children should be prophylactic. It is mere 
quibbling to say that Eegulations do not admit of this. 
These day schools are only justifiable if they admit of the 
education, sanitary training, and medical observation of 
children coming from homes where consumption exists, 
but who themselves, although suspect, are as yet apparently 
free from the disease. All children in these schools should 
have their temperature noted twice daily; a chart for this 
purpose can be got extending on a card of 6 x 8 inches 
for the year, their appetite should be watched, exercise 
must be carefully regulated by the temperature, and much 
rest is also to be provided. 

Open-air Schools with Sleeping in Towns. The idea 
of an open-air school in a densely populated town area, 
where instead of going back to small, stuffy, overcrowded 
rooms at night the children can sleep in the open, has been 
successfully tried on a small scale at Deptford. If the 
children are allowed to go home for their midday meal 
they act, too, as health agents in their own homes. 

Residential Schools of Recovery. These schools are 
required for about 1 per cent, of the scholars on the 
rolls of elementary schools in towns. Although a few 
are in existence their importance and necessity have not 
yet been fully appreciated, but full recognition of the need 
of these schools cannot be long delayed. The need was set 
out in 1907 in the Eeport published by a Eepresentative 



64 

London Committee on Medical Treatment of School 
Children, which divided ailing children into three classes, 
the first being " those requiring care in an institution, and 
an outdoor life ; i.e. 

(a) Debilitated children ; 

(6) Children convalescent from tuberculosis treated 

surgically ; 
(c) Children suffering from subacute or early tubercular 

disease." 

" A large number of the children of this class can only 
be effectively treated by segregation in institutions inter- 
mediate between the hospital and the special schools, 
situated in the country ; but in order adequately to 
provide for these children, whose physical debilitation 
constitutes a grave national danger, a number of resi- 
dential schools will be necessary." 

Open-air Classrooms. The usual idea is to make one 
side to open freely on a veranda. Whilst these rooms have 
a prophylactic aim, and are better than the ordinary room 
in having a much greater potential air space, they fall short 
in the other factors which contribute so materially to the 
success of the typical open-air school. Some recent rooms 
opening freely with large studio windows, and with the 
old Eoman method of heating through the surface of the 
floor, kept at 80 degrees, have been used in Derbyshire. 
The schools for Physically Defective should approximate 
to this type. A good example where the whole side of the 
classrooms is open to a veranda is seen at Duncan Street 
in Edinburgh. 

Playground Classes. These are usually held in the 
six summer months. For the relatively few children who 
attend they appear to do good in proportion to the time 
spent in the open air and the reduction in written work 
and academic grind. The open air is designed to be stimu- 



THE OPEN AIR 65 

lating and also calls for increased heat production this 
means more food. The playground classes make this extra 
demand without generally affording the necessary increase 
of feeding. They usually also fail to provide any rest 
time. Probably they will gain in educational value as 
knowledge of open-air methods spreads. Observers concur 
that, even if physical measurements should not show it, 
there is an improvement in nutrition indicated by the ten- 
dency of wounds and chronic sores or discharges to heal. 
The appearance of the children's faces too, "the open-air 
smile," and increased interest in their work are charac- 
teristic ; the spontaneity, originality, and alert response 
which they show are more pronounced as these classes 
approximate to the typical open-air class by being held in 
parks or large open spaces. Whilst it is an advantage to 
have the school as a depot, many of the teachers speak 
of work in the playground as a constant struggle with adver- 
sities. The chief want is protection from rain ; shelters are 
often available, but they are small and complained of as 
dark, although generally the photometer shows them to be 
two or three times as bright as the light falling on the 
average school desk. Protection is needed from the preva- 
lent wind, which in England is south-west and often rainy ; 
at other times dust is much complained of, and the curiosity 
of passers-by may cause interruptions. The glare of sun- 
shine on white paper can be mitigated by using tinted 
paper, which should be on blocks to avoid wind effects. 
It. is an advantage to avoid book or paper work except for 
notes. Pencils are preferable to pens. Collapsible seats 
and trestle tables are required, as ordinary desk work is 
out of place. True free-arm drawing, which from dustiness 
and want of space is almost impracticable in rooms, although 
most desirable educationally, can be done on the prepared 
outer walls of the school building. These classes are dis- 
appointing for the poorer debilitated children, as they do 

5 



66 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

not provide the safe social environment obtaining in a 
residential country school. 

School Journeys. These expeditions extend from an 
afternoon ramble in some park to journeys of hundreds 
of miles, lasting over many days. Their educative effect 
as new life experience is yet scantily appreciated by those 
without actual experience of it. The preparations, the 
co-ordination of various arrangements, the meeting of 
emergencies, are all of educational value. The children 
who go on the longer expeditions have to be selected as 
regards general fitness and cleanliness, and the possible 
spread of vermin has to be watched. It is unwise to take 
any child under ten years old. Debilitated or weakly ones 
must avoid long or strenuous work at first; they may 
actually suffer, and if at all flabby or ill-nourished are 
disposed to show dilatation of the heart. 

The ideal selection for the strenuous sight-seeing holiday 
would be children selected for their capabilities and of about 
the same physiological age, the hard work of the journey being 
arranged for the last half of the time. Other children do 
better at the seaside, where the tonic effect of winds and 
intermittent exercise broken up by lazing makes itself felt. 
German observers have found that children doing excur- 
sions over flat land do not gain weight equally with those 
doing strenuous journeying in hilly districts. Short spells 
of exercise and short rests appear to be the best way of 
progress for children ; a ten hours' rest at night is neces- 
sary, and while meals should not be large, frequent small 
drinks of water are allowable. 

Blistered feet are to be expected ; plenty of boracic acid 
powder will be useful. Accidents may cause wounds or 
even broken bones. Stomach troubles, constipation, or 
diarrhoea are common. Illnesses, however, like sore 
throats, quinsy, or even diphtheria, have occurred. If 
the best care is to be given to sufferers, it should be 



THE OPEN AIR 67 

clearly understood that no liability for expense or loss 
will fall on those in charge. 

Vacation Schools and Play Centres. In the poorer 
parts of towns, or even of country places, the school seems 
to play a civilizing part, especially in respect of cleanliness 
and good behaviour. Too often, indeed, the child has a 
school way and speech quite apart from its mother-tongue 
and life in the family. " The school proposes, but the slum 
disposes." Some teachers note as a holiday effect a relapse 
into savagery and dirt. Less than half the children go away 
in the summer ; the average number absent is about 20 per 
cent., and the average absence a fortnight of the holiday 
month. 

To walk the reeking back streets of a squalid neighbour- 
hood in a summer evening and see the poor little things 
amusing themselves writing on the pavement, chalking 
little sums, and crowded all over the asphalt, is a most 
piteous and disheartening sight. The need for twenty 
times the number of playgrounds, and ten times the 
present space, for children is one of the pressing wants 
of our English towns. " Chicago in recent years has set 
the whole world an example in its abundant provision of 
playgrounds and meeting-places for circles and clubs, 
children, youths, and old people, representatives of many 
nations and many shades of opinions, yet united to main- 
tain the decorous conduct of their various societies prac- 
tically without official help. All these halls, rooms, 
gymnasia, baths, and playgrounds are maintained by the 
city for its inhabitants and given to them free of charge." 

Country Holidays are nearly always arranged on the 
objectionable charitable basis and to a considerable extent 
apart from school organizations or authorities. The schools 
can make them useful by arranging that no child shall be 
sent away unless clean and free from obvious risk of con- 
veying infectious disease. 



68 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Reports on Open-air Work. In making notes, each 
child should have a separate card record ; for delicate 
children temperature and pulse should be recorded for a 
time ; the weight should be recorded fortnightly, for others 
monthly. It is difficult to use controls, but for many 
scientific inquiries control children should be observed of 
corresponding age, sex, height, and weight, if possible, at the 
start. Owing to possible seasonal variation in growth, 
haemoglobin, appetite, or clothing, the children can only be 
compared with others during the same periods and seasons 
of the year. The variations in the three months March to 
May differ perhaps from August to October, and neither 
is to be taken as three-twelfths of that for the whole year 
in normal children. As records for comparison of classes 
the frequently used average growths, the greatest or least 
gain, are quite futile. 

Enough has been said to indicate that the whole future 
success of elementary education as a physiological process 
depends on approximating the child's life to that in the 
best type of open-air school. Abundant fresh cool air is 
needed, but the child does not live on air, so good food as 
much as a child will take is wanted ; and in order to get 
full benefit from this, plenty of space for exercise, running, 
jumping, and games is required, with some restriction in 
purely literary work before the age of ten or eleven, and 
considerable shedding of the educational lumber that still 
chokes time-tables. Lastly, and perhaps most important 
for the growing child, a minimum of one, better one and a 
half, hours of quiet rest or sleep should be interpolated in 
the working day. Many accessory provisions generally 
neglected, such as bathing, suggest themselves, but the 
above are the fundamental requirements which should 
become tests of good educational provision in the next 
decade. 



CHAPTEE V 
TONSILS 

Enlarged Tonsils and Adenoids. Apart from dental 
troubles, the children who suffer from tonsils and adenoids 
form the bulk of cases that are noted as requiring treat- 
ment. No teachers should think themselves fit to have 
charge of an elementary school class who cannot form 
a shrewd opinion as .to whether a child is suffering 
seriously in this respect and needs to be referred to the 
school doctor. 

The normal tissues about the surfaces of the nasal and 
oral cavities are chiefly exposed to noxious foreign elements, 
of which perhaps the most dangerous are living organisms. 
Certain powers of digesting or destroying hurtful foreign 
elements, whether living or dead, possessed by nearly all 
the body cells, are described. In the more specialized 
structures these powers are in comparative abeyance, but 
are prominent in some leucocytes or white corpuscles, and 
especially in those found in lymphatic structures. The 
defensive powers of the lymphatic cells may be seriously 
lowered by poisons such as alcohol, or the chemical pro- 
ducts of fatigue ; they may also be raised by certain chemical 
vaccines now prepared, and should be vigorous and active 
in ordinary good health. The harmful elements are dealt 
with by the cells in lymphatic structures around the naso- 
pharynx. In individuals of robust health the leucocytes 

have such powers that conditions of chronic inflammation 

69 



70 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

are rarely evident, but in others of less vigorous constitution, 
or debilitated by depressing surroundings, or such causes 
as want of food or chronic fatigue, low inflammatory con- 
ditions soon show themselves. 

The tonsils on each side of the fauces are the most easily 
seen of such lymphatic masses. All degrees of enlarge- 
ment may be noticed. Mere mechanical obstruction of 
enlarged tonsils or adenoid masses may prevent correct 
articulation. This sometimes occurs even in pupil teachers. 
The enlargement may cause increased efforts resulting in 
mouth-breathing. There is no diminution of the oxygen 
reaching the lungs sufficient to cause anaemia or debility, 
although this is sometimes asserted, these affections being 
due to toxic causes. 

The accumulation of decomposing secretions on the 
surface and in the crypts of the tonsils often leads to the 
production of offensive and poisonous bacterial material. 
The tonsil, too, appears as a weak spot for the entry into 
the tissues of various organisms, being regarded as a main 
portal for the entry of rheumatic, scarlatinal, diphtheritic, 
and other dangerous blood infections. The enlarged tonsils 
are usually indicators of further changes. The lymphatic 
masses about the upper part of the naso-pharynx, and 
the mucous tissues about the posterior ends of the turbinate 
bones, are liable to become greatly hypertrophied, and 
sometimes cause trouble through their chronic irritation. 
This is mainly due to mechanical substances in the air, or 
more commonly micro-organisms, want of proper drainage 
of the surfaces, or the want of development due to mouth- 
breathing established at an early age, which mere catarrh 
set up by the baby comforter may cause. 

Results. Catarrhal attacks result in infection of the 
tonsils and neighbouring lymphatic tissues, and in children 
of low vitality the infection sets up chronic inflammation 
in these structures. Thickening of the soft palate leads 



TONSILS 71 

to impaired tone in the nasal sounds. Discharges some- 
times start a pharyngitis, which gives the child an excoriated 
upper lip and the appearance of having nasal trouble. A 
remote result not uncommon is persistent conjunctival 
troubles and inflammation of the lid edges (blepharitis), 
which, if a cure is to be hoped for, requires treatment at 
a throat rather than at an eye hospital. The associated 
catarrhal conditions of throat and nose are a common 
cause of recurrent headaches in young children. 

Aprosexia. For some reason apart from the organs of 
the special senses, the existence of hypertrophied structures 
in the naso-pharyngeal region, adenoids especially, is occa- 
sionally associated with a peculiar mental condition termed 
aprosexia. The condition is very variable, and has been 
termed spurious mental defect. Temporarily, apperception 
is greatly lowered and the attention cannot be maintained. 
The functioning and probably nutrition of the frontal areas 
of the brain seem affected, whether by accumulation of 
fatigue products, from interference with lymphatic drainage, 
or in other ways is not clear. The condition is remarkable 
for variability. Quite sharp and intelligent at times, such 
children are as often dreamy, absent-minded, and wool- 
gathering. The variations depend on the condition of the 
throat and nose, and are more obvious when the structures 
there are swollen from catarrh, especially from humidity 
of the weather. These children are always mouth-breathers, 
and often have other sequelae of the adenoids from which 
they suffer, not the least of which is said to be a character, 
in later life, timid, fearful, and doubting. The most imme- 
diate change, however, is a thickening of the tissues, starting 
in the structures about the Eustachian tubes, which lead 
to the middle ears, often causing secondary aural changes, 
and through the throat catarrh sometimes setting up very 
intractable deafness in early middle life. In slighter cases, 
with growth, recovery appears to take place, and the 



72 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

children may leave school apparently well, whilst the slow 
changes are leading to ultimate inefficiency from hardness 
of hearing. Over 5 per cent, of mothers attending medical 
inspections are noticed to present obvious deafness due to 
old adenoids or aural suppuration. 

Otitis and Mouth-breathing. Sometimes during child- 
hood the grosser form of suppuration of the ears and dis- 
charge takes place. This is more likely to happen in those 
scarlatinal or measles cases who suffer from adenoids than 
in others. Out of 1,000 children in the East End of London 
15 per cent, of mouth-breathers had ear discharge, but only 
2-8 per cent, of the normal breathers. Mouth-breathers are 
more disposed to all the dangers of suppuration of the ears, 
meningitis, or blood-poisoning than other children, and 
many lives are cut short from neglect of this condition. 
Even in the inspection of children sitting in their places the 
majority of mouth-breathers are at once apparent, and it is 
also noticeable how educationally they gravitate to the junior 
classes. It is difficult to be sure whether by mere 
mechanical obstruction a vicious circle is set up, but every 
surgeon of experience knows how many a child with open 
mouth, frequent nasal discharge, and generally unintelligent 
appearance, may be improved wonderfully by operation for 
removal of obstruction. In bad weather and times of pre- 
valence of diphtheria or scarlet fever it would, however, be 
generally wise to postpone any operations. 

Breathing and Handkerchief Drill. The breathing 
and handkerchief drill of the infant school should require the 
child to breathe in and out with the mouth shut, and this 
would have additional good effect by directing attention to 
defects. Any teacher who notices mouth-breathing must 
warn the parents early ; if, in addition, the child snores 
habitually at night, it may be confidently asserted that 
such a child requires operation to clear the naso-pharynx. 
About a, third of the children in school show some hyper- 



TONSILS 73 

trophy of tonsils or adenoids, but nothing like this number 
require surgical treatment. Up to 10 per cent, of children 
on admission will be marked mouth-breathers, and during 
school ages the condition remains comparatively steady. 
Probably some 3 or 4, certainly not more than 5 per cent, of 
school children require operation, although school doctors 
often return numbers in excess of this. Mouth-breathing 
persists in many cases after operation unless the child is 
taught to breathe correctly. In the mentally defective 
about 50 per cent, are mouth-breathers, the habit having 
been set up by some infantile catarrh and allowed to persist 
from neglect. It is only in the slightest cases of mouth- 
breathing that any benefit is got by exercises alone ; and in 
such cases there is a considerable tendency to recovery 
without the exercises. Advice so often reported as having 
been given by the family doctor, that the child " would 
grow out of it," has probably an equal element of truth to 
the supposed benefit from breathing exercises, always pro- 
vided that the child escapes the risks of serious danger, 
or later of becoming the victim of gradually progressive 
hardness of hearing. 

Quite good results are got from operation in careful hands, 
but the majority of elementary school children noted after 
operation are in an unsatisfactory condition, chiefly from 
neglected turbinal hypertrophy. The greatest proportion of 
unsatisfactory cases are among those operated on at large 
general hospitals. The parents require a good deal of 
instruction as to the hygiene of the child both before and 
after operation, and the school nurse can best impart this. 

The Public Health Problem. The existence of enlarged 
tonsils and adenoids as a public health problem is in no 
way satisfactorily treated by selecting as many as a third 
of the children in whom these structures are pathologically 
changed for even the most successful operations. When 
a third of the children in the schools present conditions 



74 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

which indicate severe struggle against the factors of ill 
health, the causes must be sought out and remedied. 
They are causes also at the roots of tuberculosis and other 
states of chronic debility. 

The external factors are the various kinds of septic 
organisms which gain access to the nose and mouth. Each 
human being goes through a period of acquiring a propor- 
tion of immunity against various diseases. Provided the 
dose of germs is small enough, almost any disease is over- 
come, or rather its germs are overcome without the disease 
becoming evident. Tuberculosis thus affects 95 per cent, 
of the population ere schooldays are past, but unless the 
doses of infection are many or large, or the child is un- 
balanced by the results of other diseases, as measles or 
whooping-cough, it soon overcomes the attacking tubercle 
germs. One purpose of public health is to diminish the 
dosage and frequency of infection by tubercle bacilli while 
increasing the individual's resistance. There are a number 
of germs of comparatively low pathogenic powers against 
which only temporary immunity seems to be conferred by 
attack. The common "dirt" infections of the eyes and 
ears, and fungus rashes of the skin, so evident among 
debilitated children and invalids, afford examples. Where- 
ever there is malnutrition they tend to assert themselves. 
Catarrhal attacks, the common colds, the micro-organisms 
of which cause an enormous diminution in health and 
vitality annually, these too can be resisted easily in health, 
but the germs are so omnipresent that, especially in con- 
ditions of debility, any slight departure from a condition 
of resistance, a few minutes' chilling, a slight attack of 
indigestion, will give the opportunity for invasion. 

In the case of young children improper clothing, bad 
feeding, or the use of the dumb teat or comforter, may 
contribute to the catarrhal attacks which ultimately lead 
to the enlarged lymphatic tissues just considered. The 



TONSILS 75 

factors contributed by the child itself depend to some 
extent on its bodily constitution. The children of a family 
who in other respects resemble a mouth-breathing parent 
are likely to be mouth- breathers, whilst the rest are 
like the other parent and normal. Lack of resistance 
in the cellular elements is sometimes induced or cultivated, 
as can be seen in the large, soft, well-clothed, scarcely 
exercised workhouse or institution children, so apt to 
develop chilblains or to suffer from adenoids. So, too, 
similar cultivated conditions in children are referred 
to on p. 185. 

Preventive medicine requires the diminution of catarrhal 
attacks by raising the child's reserve powers. The chief 
early causes of catarrh are the baby comforter, maternal 
ignorance, and dirt. Boom to live on the land is the 
principal need ; house-room and all that it connotes, school- 
room, free spaces of land for air and play, chance of 
cleanliness and the tonic influence of school baths, are 
all of great value. 



CHAPTEK VI 
EXCESSIVE MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE 

FATIGUE is chiefly subjective. Earely people are found 
who can work tirelessly till suddenly they collapse ex- 
hausted; others are born tired, "Weary Willies" who 
are always fatigued. 

The subjective feeling of fatigue is a natural warning 
that physiological action is being overstepped, that reserves 
are being called upon, and that there is a possibility of 
danger. Only in great emergencies should such reserves 
be required, and then, as a rule, fatigue is scarcely noticed. 

Experience shows that the developing nerve cell fatigues 
more readily the more immature it is. Irritable cells of 
structures like nerve or muscle may be pictured as pro- 
ducing their work by chemical change taking place in certain 
material of an explosive nature, which is rather to be 
regarded as a secretion in the cell than as a part of the 
more vital structure. The immature cell put into action 
soon runs through its small store of ready prepared ex- 
plosive, and then functioning bas to take place at the 
expense of the more vital structure, and so change is 
produced in the growing cell. 

These immature cells are also easily affected by poisons 
and suffer excessively from the toxic effects of their own 
activity, among which are the fatigue-producing agents. 
Healthy nerve functioning is therefore largely a matter of 
good blood circulation and free lymph removal from the 

76 



MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE 77 

tissues, one being equally important with the other. This 
will be reverted to in discussing physical exercise. 

In the young child whose tendencies are to muscular 
activities, the motor neurones are in the stage requiring 
much functional exercise ; if this is not provided, blood 
circulation and lymph removal are affected, and these 
secondarily react on the development of other immature 
and still later developing and higher functioned cells. 
Thus, too much sedentary life in the classroom may 
possibly be a sufficient cause for apparent overpressure 
without much mental exercise. Another cause, to be 
discussed in connection with ventilation, is the result of 
heat accumulation due to excessively warmed air in school- 
rooms, and this probably is temporarily more generally 
effective than any mental work. The effects of long- 
continued work can be summed as (1) gradual exhaus- 
tion of the energy-producing materials in the nerve or 
muscle cells, requiring fresh nutritive supplies and rest 
to make good; and (2) the poisoning effect of the waste 
products (fatigue toxins) which produce the subjective 
tiredness, and to which some individuals are more sensitive 
than others. These toxins are best got rid of locally by 
good blood and lymph circulation, and generally by healthy 
glandular action, destroying or excreting them. 

A young child developed with due regard to its physio- 
logical order of evolution, with active blood and lymph 
circulation, can scarcely have mental strain. Attention 
is always the highest function of the nervous system, and 
with the onset of fatigue the child simply ceases to attend. 
The younger the child the quicker and more blatant its 
inattention. 

Overpressure, then, is not usually the reaction of the 
nervous system to overwork, but rather the reaction of 
other insufficiently worked systems (circulatory, respiratory, 
lymphatic, digestive) in failing to provide for the nervous 



78 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

system to which they are the servants and adjuncts. The 
chief, and perhaps the commonest in the elementary 
school, is nutritional failure from insufficiency of proper 
food. Proteid starvation especially may merely show as 
mental inefficiency. 

Education is the impressing of certain changes on the 
nervous system, a variation in nerve-cell structures, and 
the developing of new paths in the mechanism ; it is only 
the still immature plastic cells which are capable of taking 
this impress of change. These are the cells which also 
fatigue easily ; for this reason all educational effort pro- 
ducing changes in the cells involves fatigue. There is, 
indeed, no education without fatigue, but this should be 
healthy, and it is only fatigue not easily recovered that 
is bad. 

Slight degrees of fatigue result in a preliminary excite- 
ment. 

When the first nervous adjustments have been made 
and the toxic products resulting commence to stimulate 
the heart and quicken the respiration a little, a flush may 
come on the cheek, the lips are parted, the eye may 
glisten and the pupil widen. This is the picture of health 
the reaction, for instance, to a bracing walk across a breezy 
moor. With this slight degree of fatigue there is increased 
ability to do what is wanted, and a little practice produces 
its " warming-up " effect, so that for some time there is 
increased quantity in the output, although the quality 
may gradually deteriorate. This goes on for an hour or 
more ; then follows a slackening, and again an increase, till 
after three or four hours a steady deterioration of amount 
and quality comes on and exhaustion takes place, when 
the work can no longer be continued. If with sleep and 
rest complete recovery soon takes place, ere the work is 
recommenced, all is well. If the original starting-point is 
not regained in recovery before fatiguing work is re- 



MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE 79 

commenced, and if this happens day by day, then there is 
chronic fatigue or overpressure. Overpressure, however 
slight in degree, is chronic persisting fatigue, and it is 
dependent on the circulatory and nutritional mechanisms 
either being too weak or not having enough time and 
opportunity to remove the fatigue products regularly formed 
in work. 

In relation to fatigue there are enormous individual 
differences, which are the expression of inborn structure 
and are tested by school tasks. They fall roughly into the 
following classes : 

.1. The commonest type shows some fatigue in the first 
hour, with recovery, then fatigue again, and again re- 
covery, till in the fourth or fifth hour exhaustion gradually 
comes on. 

2. These are the children in whom fatigue comes on 
slowly, work reaching a maximum in about three hours 
and then tending to decrease in activity. They are 
generally attentive and industrious children without 
particular ability the plodders. 

3. Children who do not show marked fatigue. The 
curve of work runs evenly along, the child seeming to learn 
almost without effort. 

Although heredity has the preponderating influence in 
all nervous actions, early school habits may have a good 
deal to do with the way of tackling schoolwork. Some 
make a maximum effort from the start, some waste time 
and take a great deal of starting. Possibly educational 
methods are sometimes at fault. Any method which asks 
for accurate and exact work from children under ten years 
of age is thoroughly bad. It is educating for mediocrity in 
later life. As Boole also expresses it in heavy Victorian 
style : " A premature converse with abstraction is fatal to a 
virile growth of the intellect." This is an old cry from the 
days of Eabelais and Montaigne, that some faculties were 



80 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

in danger of annihilation rather than of development 
through school influences. The real educational method 
from the point of view of nervous development is to set 
out the task clearly by word or object, and let the child 
do it as it likes, but as quickly as possible, trusting the 
nervous system to make its own adjustments in due season. 
All other slowj and exact methods for children are waste- 
ful and exhausting, involving many fine adjustments by 
immature cells, which suffer from premature functioning or 
rather overfunctioning, and tend quite soon to boredom 
and fatigue. 

Attempts have been made to ascertain by some compara- 
tive tests a coefficient of fatigue for different studies, but 
it is very doubtful what value can be assigned to the various 
numbers given. So much depends on the actual age and 
the earlier training of the child. The pupil may have 
considerable artistic instincts, but routine studies of free- 
hand drawing, done an eighth of an inch at a time with 
much use of indiarubber, not only help to destroy power 
of artistic expression in the future, but make the actual 
lesson one of the most tedious and fatiguing in school- 
days. Again, it is only rare and precociously developed 
brains that survive unhurt the painstaking and accurate 
drilling of a classical training before puberty, which makes 
literature in later life an aversion to so many, and his 
classical room a horror to the normal boy. For this reason 
no attempt will be made here to analyse the causes of 
fatigue in ordinary school lessons ; experience must still 
estimate their value, although special points will be dealt 
with under other heads. 

Tests for Fatigue. The numerous methods of estimat- 
ing fatigue are neither easy nor exact. Much refinement, 
but little practical advance, has been made in recent years. 

The various methods can be grouped as 

I. PSYCHOLOGICAL METHODS the most interesting to 



MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE 81 

schoolworkers. The diminution of mental powers can 
be tested by the amount of work done and the mistakes 
made in a given time. Examples of these methods are 

(i.) Counting the letters in a printed passage during a 
certain period. The number of letters counted diminishes 
with fatigue. This is a rough test. 

(ii.) Sikorsky, the earliest worker in this subject, used 
dictation tests. He had a dozen propositions, each of 
twenty-five letters. Once a day at different hours the 
children were tested, and the number of mistakes from 
inattention were noted and taken as an indication of 
fatigue, so that the whole picture was gradually built up. 

(iii.) Burger stein, whose paper on the " Working Curve 
of an Hour " became classical, used a large number of small 
sums in addition and multiplication, to be worked for ten 
minutes with five-minute rests. Then from the quantity 
of work done and mistakes made he obtained the working 
capacity as a measure of mental fatigue. From practice 
the amount of work increased rapidly, but the number of 
mistakes and the corrections made increased in a much 
greater ratio. 

Attempts have been made in great variety to estimate 
either single activities, such as crossing out letters, inter- 
polating missing letters or words, reckoning methods, or 
methods combining various activities. It is obvious that 
all these estimate the output and quality of work and not 
exactly the fatigue. Many of the results got by the various 
methods are not concordant. 

II. PHYSIOLOGICAL METHODS. ErgograpMc tnetJiods 
measure, and in Mosso's instrument record, the contrac- 
tions of the muscles of the forefinger when pulling against 
a weight till exhausted. The readiness with which the 
exhaustion of the finger takes place is held to be a measure 
of the general fatigue. The method has many difficulties 
in practice. 

6 



82 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Other methods of a muscular nature are tapping tests, 
where tapping on a recording key at the fastest rate possible 
is used to measure fatigue. 

The combined hand and foot method has lately been 
suggested by Weichardt as a good test of general fatigue. 
Each knee is raised alternately once a second, till the thigh 
is horizontal ; at the same time the " arm parting " move- 
ment is done to and fro, from the fingers touching in front 
to full extension of arms and hands in the same straight 
line. These movements can be done easily for a short 
time, then sudden exhaustion comes. The number of 
movements done to time gives an inverse measure of 
fatigue. Investigators have chiefly used this for personal 
daily records. 

dEsthesiometric Methods. Associated chiefly with the 
name of Griesbach, who developed the method of measuring 
the threshold of sensibility, the smallest distance at which 
two points could be separately recognized. This distance 
increases with fatigue. It also varies with temperature, 
humidity, and other circumstances, and is so delicate that it 
requires the touch of an artist to apply. It has been much 
used, particularly by Abelson, in recent years. 

Optical Methods. These are of extreme delicacy. An 
object viewed through two small holes in front of one eye 
is seen singly so long as the lens can be accommodated. If 
brought nearer than this it appears doubled. Measuring 
distances for near and far points of clear vision, the range 
for single vision decreases with fatigue. 

III. BIOLOGICAL METHODS introduced by Weichardt 
depend on the reaction to an antitoxin which he postulates 
as being produced by fatigue toxins, and which can be 
prepared artificially. Even if this is confirmed it will, 
however, fail to account for other than the subjective part of 
fatigue due to toxins. The dangerous part from exhaustion 
of cell materials apparently would not show in this method. 



J 



MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE 



83 



An example of fatigue tests in relation to atmospheric 
condition was to allow the work to take its usual course 
except that a set of twenty multiplication sums of three 
figures each was given to be done in five minutes. The 
work was given out at the beginning of the school session 
(Test I) and collected in five minutes. A like process (Test 
II) was repeated two and three-quarter hours later. The 
results of the tests were set out diagrammatically, marking 



I 



? - 



fe 




A- 
correct. 



h of 
FIG. 9. Record of fatigue tests. 

Number of boys in each group, with number of sums done correctly. 
This is greater in Test I., the deterioration in Test II. being shown 
by displacement of the curve to the left. 

off horizontally numbers to represent the number of sums 
done rightly by different groups of boys, and then marking 
vertically the number of boys in each group; on super- 
posing the curves thus got, displacement to the right or left 
indicated improvement or deterioration in the mental 
capacity, which in the case illustrated (Fig. 9) shows 
deterioration. To express this in figures the average for 
each boy was taken. 



84 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



Another way used to record the work was always to give 
the same amount of multiplications by three integers and 
represent this multiplied by the number of boys as a 
rectangle, whose surface was equal to this number of 
squares (Fig. 10). Then the number of right, wrong, and 
omitted sums, charted as plain, lined, and dotted squares in 
the diagrams given, and gain or deterioration in percentage 
right, wrong, or omitted can be numerically stated in this 
instance being, for Test I, right 85'7, wrong 10'2, and 
omitted 4'0 per cent. ; and in Test II, right 761, wrong 



3e* i. (&o) 




Jestl. 


PI 






(520) 


^52y 




W%7 






IIP 




y"//, 






$J : 




^53^ 






8 




i.i 








FIG. 10. Record of fatigue tests. 



The sums worked in the two tests represented by areas. 
Bight, plain ; wrong, lined ; omitted, dotted. 

lO'O, and omitted 13-5 per cent. Control classes should 
also be used, where the conditions to be tested can remain 
normal whilst in the experimental class they are varied. 

Attempts made by such methods to get exact knowledge 
of schoolwork cannot be said to be more than suggestive. 
Severe mental fatigue, as measured by the ergograph, 
comes on with great regularity in the sessions of mathe- 
matics and gymnastics ; while, on the other hand, recupera- 
tion seems to take place during the sessions for history, 
geography, and nature study. Modern languages occupy 



MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE 85 

with respect to fatiguing power a middle place. Singing 
and drawing, moreover, make rather greater demands on 
those who do well in these branches. 

Nerve Signs. School observations by Warner in the 
early nineties almost popularized the school hygiene 
movement then just beginning. He described certain 
nervous signs. 

The position of the hand gives useful indications. In 
children, when the hands are held out in front of them 
at the word of command, they are pronated (i.e. the back 




FIG. 11. 

(a) Hand-balance tense. 
(6) ,, normal, 

(c) relaxed. 

of the hand is uppermost), and both arms are stretched 
horizontally on a level with the shoulders; in normal 
children the hands are flat, but in nervous and excitable 
but weak children the position shown in Fig. 11 (a) may be 
taken, the wrist being slightly dropped and the fingers bent 
upwards ; in exhausted children the whole hand and wrist 
may drop, as in Fig. 11 (c). The thumb only may drop 
or all the fingers. 

Balance of the Head. The head is held erect without 
effort if the child is fresh, but when tired the head leans 
forward or to one side. 



86 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Combined Tests. Dr. Warner has attacked the same 
subject from a wider standpoint. He divides his study 
of children into a study of neural and mental defects. The 
face is in its muscles a most accurate index of brain 
actions. Notable facial signs are 

Frontal muscles overacting, causing horizontal creases in 
the forehead. 

Corrugation or knitting of the eyebrows. This sign 
when alone is often associated with a " status of mental 
stress which may be discovered on further inquiry." It 
is also a frequent sign of hypermetropia, or longsightedness, 
causing eye strain. 

Orbicularis oculi relaxed (i.e. the muscle around the 
eye). This causes the lower lid to appear baggy and 
relaxed. 

Mouth open. This may be due to chronic naso-pharyn- 
geal obstruction or be merely due to muscular relaxation. 

These signs of neural defect are those most likely to 
be useful. A facial expression indicating exhaustion cannot 
be easily described, but should be observed by the school- 
worker. 

The great test of fatigue as observed by the teacher or 
public speaker is the degree of concentration of attention. 
A good teacher holds the attention. With the onset of 
fatigue, in which at first probably the toxic element is 
most prominent, the subjective feelings only come to the 
front as attention fails. In the case of the child it may not 
be feelings of tiredness about the head or neck, but it may 
be undue irritability ; the attention, instead of being concen- 
trated on work, wanders to feelings of discomfort orpressure 
from the seat or desk, and a shuffling of feet or bodies 
begins; irritation of the fauces by some scrap of mucus 
makes cough insistent ; a fly crawls on the wall, a spot of 
sunshine flickers, and so the attention is lost. This, how- 
ever, only represents fatigue as it appears in a temporary 



MENTAL EXERCISE AND FATIGUE 87 

way, and the younger the child the sooner this will appear. 
Chronic fatigue or overpressure is the more serious kind, 
and in the elementary school is rare as a result of school- 
work, although not uncommon as a result of out-of-school 
work. As seen in young children little Jewish boys, for 
instance, who study the Scriptures at early ages and at all 
hours the picture is that of extreme delicacy and ill 
nutrition, with a limp and drowsy attitude, which becomes 
momentarily alert and brisk when questioned. The child 
gives an impression as if its growth had stopped, as pos- 
sibly it has. In other cases of young children they seem to 
want nutrition and rest. Many such children are or get 
quite dull, and appear to have their mental development 
retarded for a year or two, only passing out of the suspicion 
of amentia about the ages of ten to eleven. Large towns 
furnish many instances of this spurious mental defect or false 
amentia among children, who brighten up considerably with 
a relative lightening of their load, by better feeding, more 
rest, as in open-air schools, or less classroom work, as in the 
playground classes. In the secondary school, or even in the 
older pupils of the elementary school, overpressure is com- 
moner. Here again it is largely a matter of poor physique. 
Girls especially show overpressure also in yielding muscles, 
and are more prone to suffer than boys. Chronic overpressure 
may first show by its effects on the higher brain centres, 
and the child's social relations become disturbed. It 
becomes wayward, and from want of higher control is 
likely to be unduly emotional or reserved ; inattention, 
loss of memory, and neglectfulness may appear ; the child 
may be guilty of petty theft, or trivial and often meaning- 
less lying. These symptoms, too, are common when the 
psychical pressure of puberty is being felt, and in the year 
or two after, when with defective mental and physical 
hygiene, hysterical emotional conditions may be pro- 
nounced. To dismiss a child from a secondary school for 



88 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

such occurrences without a thorough psychical inquiry 
into all the possible sources of its delinquencies is only 
excusable by ignorance in the teacher. 

The indirect effects of noise, bustle, and considerable 
railway journeys on pupils are sometimes very evident, 
and should be minimized for both scholars and teachers. 



CHAPTEE VII 
THE CARE OP ABNORMAL CHILDREN 

The Mentally Defective. Many children in consequence 
of physical or mental defects drift behind their fellows 
within the scope of ordinary schoolwork. Many tubercular 
children who have been bedridden are backward, and seem 
defective simply from want of the education of natural 
experience, quite apart from schooling. More frequently 
in the poorer parts of cities others are retarded from mal- 
nutrition of the brain, and should be reckoned as spuriously 
defective, like the children who suffer through imperfect 
lymphatic drainage of brain areas arising from obstructed 
naso-pharynx. It is difficult to say where the boundary 
is to be fixed ; education is chiefly directed to the develop- 
ment of mental qualities, to making potentialities into 
powers. These potentialities exist in the nervous system, 
which, like all bodily organs, is subject to great physio- 
logical variation, so that from the effects of heredity a 
person may be bodily sound and yet a long way below 
the average mentally, whilst many are also degenerated 
as the result of disease. Those persons are feeble-minded 
who fail to reach a certain general level of mental qualities ; 
these are, however, not a class apart, any more than are 
the highly gifted. There is, indeed, a continuous gradation 
from the one to the other end of the scale. In a mass 
of individuals otherwise comparable, as, for instance, all 
the children of a town in their tenth year of age, if it was 



90 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



possible to make a numerical value of their intelligence, 
as can now be roughly done by tests to be described, the 
variation in intelligence would become evident. Marking 
off to the right from zero on a horizontal line distances 
proportionate to the marks assigned to the various grades 
of intelligence, and from each of these marking off on a 
vertical line upwards the number of children of each grade, 
through these points drawing a curve, this would represent 




J3EFCT/V X DI/J.L 

MtNTAL QUALITY- 



FIG. 12. 



diagrammatically the physiological variation of the numbers 
and qualities of the various children's intellects measured 
by the scale. Marking off by a vertical line an area from 
the zero equal to 1 per cent, of the whole area between 
the curve and the base, this area would represent the 
numbers at the lower end of the scale of intelligence, 
who are commonly described as feeble-minded, although 
2 per cent, would be really nearer the truth. If another 



THE CARE OF ABNORMAL CHILDREN 91 

vertical be drawn to cut off an area equal to 10 per cent., 
this area would represent the children who stick below 
Standard II or III in school-life, the dull and backward 
intermediate class who do not receive the benefit for after- 
life which they would if educated with special regard to 
the elementary qualities of their intellects; educationally 
they ask for bread, and, so far as they are concerned, are 
given stones. At the other end of the scale a similar 
area would represent the scholarship class, with the smaller 
area of brilliant children. The mass of intellect seems to 
thin out at this higher end. Remembering that disease 
tends to harm, and in the nervous system to degeneration 
of function, this curve of physiological variation does not 
fully represent the existing facts. The pathological effects 
of disease must be added to these of heredity, skewing the 
curve down towards the dotted position which more 
nearly represents the facts. It is, however, not necessary 
to know the exact amount, which must be determined by 
observation, to get a clear working representation of the 
subject. Here there is between the normally intellectual 
area, about the middle, and the mentally defective area 
below, the intermediate group touching them both, the 
dull and backward. 

Backward Children. In the first card inquiry on the 
physical, mental, and social conditions of school-children 
made in this country, about 1896, the classification of 
intelligence made by the teachers was influenced by so 
many other factors than the child's mentality that the 
standard in which the child worked had to be taken as a 
measure ; even then a child of eight in Standard III assessed 
as dull by the teacher, and a child of eleven also in 
Standard III placed as bright, came out on the same 
level. Later experience shows the personal equation of 
teachers to be very great in this matter, and the assess- 
ment on shorter knowledge of mental condition asked 



92 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

from the school medical routine inspection is evidently 
so valueless that it is not worth recording otherwise than 
by a tick of the pen. As to educability, experience with 
children of different ages and different mental levels gives 
a simple judgment, difficult to analyse, but in practice 
so correct, that it is nearly always possible after seeing 
the child and noting its age, by asking such questions as, 
What is your name? Where do you live? How many 
fingers have you ? What is a cat? What day is it to-day? 
What is the day after to-morrow ? to state whether a case 
should be passed into a special school or not. Subse- 
quent history shows that in most cases for practical 
discrimination anything further is almost waste of time. 
For a few doubtful cases it does not really matter where 
they go, and probably probation in the special school is 
the best chance for them. The forms now required in 
England are so ; needlessly detailed that they practically 
destroy much of the interest on the part of the medical 
examiner, and are yet themselves of scanty value in the 
returns made. Indeed, the careful filling up of the form 
almost precludes a good estimate of the child. 

Adaptation Test. The mentally defective child may 
be able to perform an action quite well, but some little 
change in the surroundings prevents him adapting him- 
self, and Goddard has devised what he calls an adaptation 
test. A half-inch board about eight by eleven inches has 
four holes bored through it, the centres being f inch from 
the end and ^ inch from the sides. Three of these holes 
are 2| inches across ; one is 2| inches. A circular plug 
about an inch thick and 2 T (; inches across is just too large 
for the three smaller but easily fits the larger hole. The 
board is painted to appear similar on both sides. The 
child sitting on the left of the examiner, and the board 
lying before them with the largest hole at the top left- 
hand corner, the child is told that this stopper fits one 



THE CARE OF ABNORMAL CHILDREN 93 

hole but not the others ; he is told to put it in. He may 
not succeed, or only succeeds after several trials. It is 
removed, and he is told to do it again, until he readily 
puts it at once in the top left-hand largest hole. He is 
told now to watch what is done, and the stopper being 
removed, the board is slowly turned over, taking two or 
three seconds to do this. The largest hole is now at the 
top right-hand corner. An intelligent child at once puts 
the stopper there, but a defective one again tries the top 
left hole. After this the board is placed in its original 
position, and the stopper being removed, the child is again 
asked to watch what is done ; the board is then slowly 
turned over so that the far edge now becomes the near 
one and the largest hole is left bottom corner. The child 
again is asked to put in the plug. He may try the top left, 
or top right, or the correct one. This test brings out the 
adaptability of the child, and about 60 per cent, four- 
year-olds completely fail, whilst practically all normal eight- 
year-olds succeed. It is a test for the mental adaptability 
equal to that of a normal child eight years old. 

Although this test was later devised than those which 
follow, it is given to explain the rationale of mental tests. 

Mental Tests. A finer assessment of the intelligence 
is sometimes useful for more detailed inquiries or with 
cases of merely backward children, and methods have 
been worked out by experimental observation on the lines 
of the above questions, and some simple actions, by Binet 
and Simon, in French schools. They formulated a series 
of tests corresponding to the intellectual level of each 
year of age, such as that for normal children. While only 
a few will do particular tests at a certain age, the majority 
will succeed at a year older, and all if taken two years 
older. For instance, a child at three years old should 
repeat a sentence of six syllables, at five years ten syllables, 
at fifteen up to twenty-six syllables ; again, at three he 



94 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



should repeat two figures, three figures at four, five figures 
at eight, seven figures at fifteen. A child of six will state 
what a common object is used for, but at nine will give a 
much superior definition. Shown a picture, he names 
objects in it at three, describes it at seven, and by fifteen 
interprets it. By such means a scale of intelligence has 
been built up, and by comparing the intellectual age by 
this scale with the calendar age retardation can be stated. 
At nine years old, three years' retardation indicates mental 
defect. Although this is the best measure yet devised, 
it is by no means infallible and is only a very rough way 
of stating the comparison ; for the ages above ten it is very 
doubtful whether its results are even comparable. 

It is extremely difficult to say what is tested and how 
far ages are comparable on the scale. The tests, some- 
what as modified by Goddard for American children, are 
given in Chapter VIII. 

Classing children merely by their distribution in the 
school, from 10 to 15 per cent, are found to be so back- 
ward that they do not fully benefit by the schooling offered 
them. An analysis of a group of ten-year-old children 
showed that by this age opportunity, chance, or ability had 
distributed them over the schools as follows : 



Ten-year- 
olds. 


St. I. 


II. 


III. 


IV. 


V. 


VI. 


VII. 


Totals. 


Girls ... 


39 


93 


390 


428 


221 


18 





1,189 


Boys ... 


41 


111 


317 


432 


207 


33 


5 


1,146 


Total ... 


80 


204 


707 


860 


428 


51 


5 


2,335 



Of these 2,335 children representing average samples, 
no less than 284 have got two to three years behind 
educationally ; that is, 12 per cent, of the whole are 



HEIGHTS 120 



140 150 




FIG. 13. Distribution of 1,350 children aged ten last birthday, showing 
heights in centimetres and standards. 

Oirls (black) above, boys (lined) below, the base line of eacb standard. 



96 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

evidently not profiting as they should from the educa- 
tion offered. About 1,400 of these were further noted 
as regards height (see p. 50), and Fig. 13 shows their 
distribution in the schools. It will be noted that the 
taller children are chiefly in the upper standards. This is 
partly an expression of heredity, and partly an expression 
of better social conditions in promoting a certain compara- 
tive precocity, physical and mental. 

Dr. A. H. Hogarth, in an inquiry into the causes of 
backwardness, analysed these into mental, physical, social, 
moral, non-attendance, and combinations of these. Dull- 
ness short of what is actually classed as mentally defective 
preponderated, and this he again separated according as the 
children were intelligent but late developing children or dull 
children. He concluded that for a poor city district about 
65 per cent, of children derive satisfactory benefit from 
schooling; about 21 per cent, fail to derive much benefit, as 
they leave before attaining the higher standards ; and 14 per 
cent., being dull, derive but little benefit from the system 
of instruction in the elementary school. It is probable 
that a large number of these children are the exceptional 
children, or social misfits, which are now in America being 
selected, studied, and in large measure socially cured by 
the psychological clinics. These children puzzle and worry 
their teachers, are often a cause of anxiety to their 
mothers, and sometimes a distress to themselves. They 
are not merely wild or neglected, but suffer from all sorts 
of obsessions, phantasies, imaginings, emotions, and limi- 
tations, and no educational system is complete which fails 
to provide a means of studying and analysing their 
characteristics individually. Such observational centres 
have been suggested years ago, as they would repay more 
richly than any other educational means in proportion to 
the number of scholars handled, and every town should 
have access to a psychological clinic for its children. 



THE CARE OF ABNORMAL CHILDREN 97 

The Mentally Sub-normal. For the purposes of social 
life Sec. 1 of the Mental Deficiency Act, 1913, defines the 
various classes of mentally sub-normal persons according 
to conduct as 

(a) Idiots-; that is to say, persons so deeply de- 
fective in mind from birth or from an early age as 
to be unable to guard themselves against common 
physical dangers. 

(b) Imbeciles; that is to say, persons in whose 
case there exists from birth or from an early age 
mental defectiveness not amounting to idiocy, yet 
so pronounced that they are incapable of managing 
themselves or their affairs, or, in the case of children, 
of being taught to do so. 

(c) Feeble-minded persons; that is to say, persons 
in whose case there exists from birth or from an 
early age mental defectiveness not amounting to 
imbecility, yet so pronounced that they require care, 
supervision, and control for their own protection, 
or for the protection of others, or, in the case of 
children, that they by reason of such defectiveness 
appear to be permanently incapable of receiving 
proper benefit from the instruction in ordinary 
schools. 

(d) Moral imbeciles; that is to say, persons who 
from an early age display some permanent mental 
defect coupled with strong vicious or criminal pro- 
pensities on which punishment has had little or no 
deterrent effect. 

These definitions give some idea of the class of cases 
to be considered. Binet and Simon state as shorter 
definitions : " An idiot is any child who never learns to 
communicate by speech owing to defective intelligence, 
an imbecile fails to communicate by reading or writing 

7 



98 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

and cannot learn to do so, whereas a feeble-minded 
person can communicate by speech and reading, but is 
at least three years behind the normal." 

American writers do not restrict feeble-mindedness in 
accord with the British definitions, but extend the term 
to all mentally inferior persons, including imbeciles, idiots, 
and lunatics. For the congenital class of feeble-minded 
as defined in England the elegant term moron has been 
devised by Goddard, and it is often very convenient, 
expressive, and sometimes consoling to use. Putting 
idiots and imbeciles to one side, the feeble-minded come 
into consideration for education. This is provided for 
under the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic) 
Act, 1899, for those who " not being imbecile and not 
merely dull and backward are by reason of mental 
defect incapable of receiving proper benefit from the 
instruction in the ordinary public elementary school." 
This is a most excellent definition for the purpose of 
educational selection. The feeble-minded usually appear 
to lack the power of judgment, of constructing complex 
ideas, or abstractions from them. In rare cases extra- 
ordinary powers may exist in one direction with great 
defects in others, e.g. the so-called idiots savants, 
including reckoners, linguists, carvers, artists, and 
musicians. Markedly unequal development suggests de- 
generacy, and the lopsidedness, morally or otherwise, of 
many gifted persons is notorious. 

Causes of Feeble-mindedness. This may be due to 
want of proper evolution of the nervous machinery. A 
considerable number give a positive reaction to the Wasser- 
man test, thereby suggesting syphilis as the origin of the 
defect. Cases where feeble-mindedness exists without 
obvious cause, and the individual has never been better 
than he is, constitute the so-called primary amentia, one of 
the terms which hide ignorance and should never be used 



THE CARE OF ABNORMAL CHILDREN 99 

if it can be avoided. Such amentia is no peculiar entity ; it 
may be regarded as generally an extreme degree of physio- 
logical variation. Heredity is traceable in nearly three- 
quarters of the cases. With feeble-mindedness are found 
certain conditions, whether associates or causes cannot be 
settled. In an inquiry into the mentally defective and 
normal children in the schools of a district, tuberculosis 
and syphilis were found excessively among the feeble- 
minded families. Abject poverty is ten times as common 
among the families with feeble-minded children as among 
the normal families. The size of normal families averaged 
five, those with mental defectives averaged seven, whilst 
the causes of death among the young children were very 
different in amounts in the two groups. 
Pathological causes may be classed as 

(i.) Old injuries about birth, haemorrhages, or 
localized meningitis or brain inflammation result in 
cases which present paralyses from cerebral causes. 
Some of the cases free from palsy still have a history 
of meningitis which may have left deafness, or speech- 
lessness, without palsy but with feeble-mindedness. 

(ii.) Hydrocephalus is due to some meningitis at an 
early stage ; children may be born with hydrocephalic 
heads. It is not necessarily a cause of defect. 
Helmholtz and Sir Isaac Newton were both said to 
have been hydrocephalic, but the extreme cases, 
although often pert in manner and speech, the funny 
boys of asylums, are usually very defective mentally 
in other directions. 

(iii.) There is a small, undeveloped variety of brain 
termed microcephalic. 

(iv.) There is a large, square-headed macrocephalus 
which should not be confused with the appearance of 
the rickety skull. 



100 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Two special varieties of subinvolution, quite distinct 
and characteristic, are known, namely, Mongolism and 
cretinism. 

Mongolism occurs usually in a child generally with- 
out defective, or rather with a good family history, 
often the last of the family, most commonly with a 
mother aged forty or more at its birth. The child is 
quite happy with younger children but annoyed by 
older. His appearance, with slit-like, oblique eyes, 
often a transversely fissured tongue and open mouth, 
and a broad-based nose, fat round cheeks, lobeless ears, 
and coarse hair, and his affectionate nature, imitative 
tricks, and love of music, make a characteristic picture. 
These children never develop mentally, remaining 
about the level of four- or five-year-olds. Physically 
they have poor circulation and are likely to die of 
bronchial or tubercular disease at a comparatively 
early age. 

Cretinism is a growth of both body and mind in a 
torpid kind of way, associated with some deficiency in 
function of the thyroid and other glands. The head is 
large, belly protruded, hands spade-like, and both skin 
and hair thick and coarse. A seven-year-old cretin 
looked like a seven-months-old infant, and a quaint- 
looking twenty-three-year-old girl was found among 
the babies of an infant school. In both cases regular 
administration of extract of thyroid gland made 
marvellous changes, and five years later it was dis- 
cussed whether, in view of her success in the special 
class, the younger child might not be tried in the 
ordinary school. Thyroid administration, however, is 
very variable and often quite disappointing in its 
results, but always worthy of a trial. 

The retardation of evolution in mentally defective children 



THE CARE OF ABNORMAL CHILDREN 101 

is on the average very general, although a microcephalic 
boy of thirteen may occasionally be found with the physique 
and moustache of a young navvy. Nutrition is as a rule 
not good, and congenital heart defects are more frequent 
than normal. The circulation, partly from want of proper 
exercise, tends to be poor ; blue, cold hands with a tendency 
to chilblains are common ; nasal catarrh originating in 
neglect often leads to habitual mouth-breathing, present in 
about half the cases ; defects of eye or ear are hardly com- 
moner than among other children, but the mental inter- 
pretation of things seen and heard is defective, and slight 
corneal opacities from ophthalmia neonatorum or corneal 
ulcers in babyhood are not rare. Some of the most hope- 
less of the feeble-minded have a spurious appearance of 
brightness which may deceive an untrained person. The 
" smiler " is well known in the schools as very un teachable. 
For instance, a good-looking, well-grown girl of eleven, 
apparently bright, whose parents contested the decision 
to place her in a special school, were supported by the 
managers and even by medical opinion, until, on being 
tested, she smilingly failed to count three pennies and 
a halfpenny laid before her. Any evidence of irregular 
order of mental development is strongly suspicious of 
feeble-mindedness. 

The failure to form complex ideas or general concep- 
tions makes abstract teaching relatively valueless ; concrete 
examples are wanted, not only for the children in special 
schools but for about four or five times this number who 
are now in ordinary schools. Literary education, either 
reading or writing, beyond the mere forming of words, is 
generally waste of time; these children can only be 
" hewers of wood and drawers of water," and the simpler 
and more practical the scheme into which they are fitted 
the better for the future. Not more than one-third of the 
special school children contribute permanently and materi- 



102 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

ally in later life to earning a livelihood. Only superstition 
prevents the permanent segregation, or better still steriliza- 
tion before puberty, of every case that requires education 
as feeble-minded. 

Moral Defectives. Whilst a certain degree of moral 
blunting is almost necessary for the comfort of the 
administrative official or politician, who without great 
knowledge is to attain popularity by always taking the 
easiest course, being all things to all men, the subject of 
moral deficiency has been strangely neglected. When 
present in marked degree it becomes of high social impor- 
tance. The attempted definition on p. 97 is sufficient for 
the purposes of the Mental Deficiency Act, 1913, but the 
morally defective vary intellectually from the very clever 
individuals, who may become millionaires or duchesses, to 
others who will be classed as criminal imbeciles. They 
may be quite modest and shy, and although usually bold 
and unabashed are not necessarily vain or egotistical. 
As in later life, many of these individuals pass through 
school too clever to be caught. Professor Mott has 
pointed out how in business the very successful self- 
made man often has something degenerate of this 
type. 

The body of memories stored up, comprising the conven- 
tions regulating conduct to society in any particular country, 
are quite as artificial as speech symbols, and of perhaps 
even later evolution, and hence exceedingly variable as 
regards their nervous structural basis. They are no more 
complex than the speech memories already discussed ; most 
of them, indeed, are mere taboos. Although the brain centre 
for moral conventions is not located, it is because, like the 
intellectual speech centres, it lies screened behind other 
lower centres for sensations and movements. Varying 
degrees of imperfect evolution here, not necessarily accom- 
panied by any other defect, would result in individuals who 



THE CARE OF ABNORMAL CHILDREN 103 

were weak in appreciating moral conduct and incapable of 
much education in this respect, yet normal in other ways 
and following behaviour in accord with lower emotions or 
appetites. 

In one variety the emotions are relatively well developed 
compared with the intellectual mental control, so that these 
individuals are exceedingly plausible in speech, and have 
a peculiarly attractive gift of adapting themselves, smiles 
or tears being available with equal ease according to their 
environment. Most offend early, possibly in matters of 
cruelty, lying, or swindling ; and girls may make them- 
selves obtrusive even before puberty by their misbehaviour. 
The pure cases of moral defect unaccompanied by feeble- 
mindedness are usually past masters of the suggestio 
falsi and suppressio veri. Those with high intelligence 
may display almost devilish cunning in attaining their 
ends, but often quite futile and trivial ends. This is, 
indeed, one of the marks of the defect, that colossal 
and intricate organization and machinery may be de- 
vised apparently almost for the pleasure of constructing 
them. 

In educational matters they can only be treated accord- 
ing to their intellectual capacity, although education may 
just mean arming them against their fellows. So long as 
of low grade or mediocre intellectual capacity they are 
comparatively harmless criminals. Society as yet has 
failed to control the individual who in business or official 
life, with colossal industry, may shine brilliantly, and yet 
covertly be the cause of far-reaching misery. Such indi- 
viduals have still to be endured, but they should from 
the first moment of suspicion be carefully noted, and if 
possible registered by finger-prints, to deprive them of the 
power of utilizing with impunity the calumnies, charges, 
and lies which they are likely to make or use in the 
future. 



104 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

For classification under the Mental Deficiency Act there 
must be 

(i.) Definite legal evidence showing not merely 
childish extravagances but strong vicious and criminal 
tendencies ; 

(ii.) Definite evidence of punishment having been 
tried and failed ; 

(iii.) Some accompanying, even if slight, permanent 
mental defect. 

Epilepsy. Epilepsy may occur as apparently a disease 
by itself, or a complication of other brain troubles, particu- 
larly those of a coarse kind. The cases vary in feature 
from quite distinguished mental workers to idiots. There 
is always tendency to degeneration, the epileptic dementia, 
with slow speech and difficulty of collecting and expressing 
thoughts, seen in chronic cases. An epileptic attack may 
be preceded by the aura, a queer feeling of some kind; then 
comes a sudden cry, a protracted (tonic) contraction of the 
muscles, with pale face, falling down, and loss of conscious- 
ness. There may be convulsion, with biting of the tongue 
and loss of control of the sphincters. These symptoms 
may be slight or violent. Fits may be at any time or 
chiefly in the early morning after the first sleep is over. 
Another form of epilepsy known as petit mal is not accom- - 
panied by violent fits ; there may, indeed, be a momentary 
blanching of the face, a turn of the eyes, or a hitch in 
conversation, and the child is all right again. Sometimes 
after either form of attack a post-epileptic condition ensues, 
in which the child appears to do intelligent acts but is not 
rational. It may wander away, or it may get up in its 
place, walk round the class, and then sit down, or may 
take its clothes off. Dementia appears to come on rapidly 
in some cases of this last and milder form, which seems 
confined to highest level structures. The majority of 



THE CARE OF ABNORMAL CHILDREN 105 

epileptics have an epileptic heredity, and many are also 
said to give the reaction for syphilis. School treatment 
depends entirely on the effect on the ordinary school. A 
child having a fit once in many months may continue, but 
fits frequently occurring would be a cause for exclusion. 
Residential schools, where the child can be dieted and have 
suitable work, are the best. It is suggested that stairs 
should be avoided in these schools, but this is not abso- 
lutely necessary. The harassment in life to a family in 
a small house from having an epileptic child with nocturnal 
fits is frequently heard of in school, and if for this alone 
the residential school should be urged for most cases. 
These children should be educated particularly with regard 
to their defect, which makes them unreliable and prevents 
them following occupations in traffic, or among machinery, 
or water. Plenty of muscular exercise and an avoidance 
of much meat in the diet is generally recommended. 
Otherwise the hygiene is similar to that of other residential 
schools. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE BINET-SIMON MEASURING SCALE FOR 
INTELLIGENCE 

THE examiner requires some experience and practice before 
using this scale in order that his work may be scientifically 
recorded. He must remember that he has not to get results 
out of the child, or educate it ; he must be quite unbiased 
in recording, must avoid influencing its judgment, and must 
appear pleased with whatever result is obtained. The child 
should understand the examiner, and for this purpose he 
should approach it on the mental level of a child. The 
child has the mental level of the highest age for which 
it has succeeded in doing all the tests; after that it is 
advanced by a year for every five tests higher than that 
age-level in which it was wholly successful. The picture 
test is perhaps easiest to begin with. Showing this, the 
question is asked, What do you see here? Avoid leading 
questions which might suggest a reply, such as, What 
is this ? or, What are they doing ? 

Since the early death of Binet, the tests have been some- 
what modified by Goddard to suit English-speaking children. 
The following tests should be managed correctly at the ages 
mentioned. It should be remembered that schooling in 
France does not begin till a year later than in England. 

Children of three years old. 

1. Where is your nose ? your eyes ? your mouth ? It is 
sufficient if these are correctly pointed to. 

106 



THE BINET-SIMON MEASURING SCALE 107 

2. Eepetition of six-syllable sentences, e.g. It rains. I 
am hungry. There must be no error. The child of three 
repeats six but cannot repeat ten syllables. 

3. Repetition of two figures. Slowly repeat " Seven 
five.' 1 

4. Describing pictures. Wfiat do you see ? The three- 
year-old mentions things without describing actions. 

5. Name of family. All three - year - olds know their 
Christian name and most their family name. 

Four-year-old children. 

1. Sex of child. A re you a boy or girl ? Three-year- 
olds do not know, four-year-olds always know. 

2. Naming familiar objects. A key, a knife, a penny 
are produced from the pocket. 

3. Repetition of four figures. 

4. Comparison of two lines. Which is the longer ? 
There should be no hesitation as to which is the longer 
of two parallel lines, about 3 cm. apart and 5 and 6 cm. 
in length, drawn on a card. 

Five-year-olds. 

1. Comparison of two weights. Which is the heavier ? 
Weighted wooden blocks of equal size, 3 grams compared 
with 12, and 6 with 15. 

2. Copying a square in ink. A square of 3 or 4 cm. side 
is shown drawn on card. 

3. Repeat sentence of ten syllables, e.g. " His name is 
John; he is a very good boy"; or, "Little Mary likes to 
play with her dolls." 

4. Counting four pennies in a row. At four half, at five 
all should succeed. 

5. Game of patience with two pieces of card. The backs 
of pieces of a visiting-card cut diagonally ; ask the child 
to place them as uncut card shown. 



108 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Six-year-olds. 

1. Distinction between morning and afternoon. Is this 
afternoon or morning ? in the afternoon ; reverse in the 
morning. 

2. Definition of objects. What is a fork, a table, a horse, 
a chair, a mamma ? Three out of five are correct. The 
definitions are given by use. Variations are spoon, bed, 
drum, cow, father. 

3. Execution of three simultaneous commissions, e.g. 
" Do you see this key ? put it on that chair, then shut the 
door, after that bring me the box on the chair. Remember, 
first the key on the chair, then shut the door, and bring the 
box." Half do it at five, nearly all at six. 

4. Eight hand, left ear. " Show me your right hand," 
then, " Shotv me your left ear." At four, none point to the 
left ear; at five, half ; at six, all. 

5. ^Esthetic comparison. Three pairs of pretty and ugly 
faces are shown, and Which is theprettier ? is asked. About 
half are right at five and all at six. 

Seven-year-olds. 

1. Counting thirteen pennies in a row. Two-thirds fail 
in six-year-olds, but all succeed in sevens. 

2. Description of picture. Description now instead of 
enumeration of objects. 

3. Unfinished picture. What is left out in this picture ? 
Some sketches of persons or heads with eye, nose, mouth, 
or arms missing. None correct at five, one-third at six, 
nearly all at seven. 

4. Copying a diamond shape with pen and ink. The 
diamond is a rhombus of 3 or 4 cm. side drawn on a card 
shown. 

5. Name four colours. Eed, blue, green, and yellow 
slips of paper about 2 by 5 cm. are shown and touched by 
turn. What is that colour ? 



THE BINET-SIMON MEASURING SCALE 109 

Eight-year-olds. 

1. Compare two things from memory, e.g. " What is the 
difference between a butterfly and a fly ? betiveen wood and 
glass ? paper and cloth ? horse and cow ? stone and egg ? 
grass and tree ? " Two of the three asked should be 
answered in a couple of minutes by all eight-year-old-;, 
nearly all sevens, and one-third of the sixes. 

2. Count backwards from 20 to 1. This should be done 
in 20 seconds without more than one correction. 

3. The days of the week. Should be given correctly in 
10 seconds. 

4. Count nine halfpennies, three single and three 
doubled. Many do this at seven, all at eight. 

5. Eepetition of five figures. Only three-quarters 
succeed. 

Nine-year-olds. 

1. Giving change. Coppers (pennies and halfpennies) 
equal to a shilling are given to the child; he is then offered 
a shilling and told to take fourpence-halfpenny out of it 
and return the correct change. 

2. Definition better than use for common objects. Half 
the children of seven and eight, and all at nine, define by 
better terms than the use of objects. 

3. Name the day of the week, the month, the day of the 
month, and the year. 

Allowance of three days is made for error in date of the 
month. 

4. The months of the year. These should be given in 
15 seconds without more than one correction or mistake. 

5. Arrangement of weights. Small equal-sized boxes 
loaded with shot to 6, 9, 12, 15, and 18 grams. In 
three minutes three trials are made and two must be 
correct. 



110 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



Ten-year-olds. 

1. Name nine pieces of money. 

2. Draw design from memory. A simple design is 
shown for 10 seconds. It may be held vertically or 
reversed. 

3. Eepeat six figures. 

4. Questions of comprehension (first series). 
E.g. What ought you to do 

(i.) When you have missed the train ? 
(ii.) When you have been struck by a playmate who 
did not do it purposely ? 

(iii.) When you have broken something which did not 
belong to you ? 




FIG. 14. Two of the designs used as memory tests of form 
for ten-year-old mental level. 



If two out of three are answered it is a pass. Half 
succeed at seven and eight, three-fourths at nine, and all 
at ten. 

What ought you to do (second series) 

(i.) When you are detained so that you will be late 
for school ? 

(ii.) Before taking part in an important affair ? 

(iii.) Why do you excuse a wrong act committed in 
anger more easily than a wrong act committed without 
anger ? 



THE BINET-SIMON MEASURING SCALE 111 

(iv.) What should you do when asked your opinion 
of some one whom you know only a little? 

(v.) Why ought you to judge a person more by his 
acts than by his words ? 

Three of the five must be correct ; 20 seconds allowed 
for each. Only half are successful at ten and none at 
seven or eight. 

5. Using three words in a sentence, e.g. London, money, 
river. 

A single sentence or two sentences united by a con- 
junction are correct, but three sentences are wrong. At 
ten half, nine one-third, eight none are right. 

Eleven-year-olds. 

1. Criticism of sentences. "7 am going to give you 
some sentences in which there is some nonsense : listen care- 
fully, and tell me where the nonsense is." 

(i.) An unfortunate cyclist has had his head broken 
and is dead from the fall ; they have taken him to 
the hospital, and they do not think that he will recover. 

(ii.) I have three brothers Tom, Fred, and myself. 

(iii.) The police found yesterday the body of a young 
girl, cut into twenty pieces ; they believe that she killed 
herself. 

(iv.) Yesterday there was a railway accident, but it 
was not serious ; only forty -eight people were killed. 

(v.) Some one said, "If in a moment of despair I 
should commit suicide, I should not choose Friday, 
because Friday is an unlucky day, and would bring 
me ill luck." 

Three at least should be well answered by half the 
children, by about a quarter at ten, and scarcely any 
at nine. 



112 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

2. Three words in a sentence. (As in Question 5 of 
ten years.) At eleven all succeed. 

3. Sixty words in three minutes. Having told the child 
that some children have said two hundred words, the 
observer now orders him to " Say as many words as 
you can." 

4. Rhymes. Three rhymes should be found for a word 
e.g. day, spring, mill in one minute, after explaining 
and illustrating what a rhyme is. 

5. Words to put in order. Make a sentence out of these 
words : Started the for an early hour we country 
at. Asked paper the to I teacher correct my. A 
defends dog good his master bravely. 

Showing the printed words of a sentence at a time, the 
child should give an oral reply for two. 

Twelve-year-olds. 

1. Repetition of seven figures. 

2. Abstract definitions. " What is Charity ? Justice 1 
Goodness ? " 

3. Repetition of a sentence of twenty-six syllables. 

(i.) Children, it is necessary to work very hard for a 
living; you must go every morning to your school (24). 

(ii.) I saw in the street a pretty little dog ; he had 
curly brown hair, short legs, and a long tail (25). 

(iii.) Ernest is praised very often for his good conduct. 
I bought at the store a beautiful doll for my little 
sister (28). 

(iv.) There occurred on that night a frightful tempest 
with lightning. My comrade has taken cold ; he has a 
fever, and coughs very much (30). 

4. Resist suggestion. A little booklet of six pages is 
prepared. Two horizontal lines are drawn in the same line 



THE BINET-SIMON MEASURING SCALE 113 



on the first page, with a half-inch interval between the 
central ends, the right one being 2 and the left one 2| 
inches long. On the second page they are 2 and 3 
inches long, on the third page 3 and 3| inches, and 
on the remaining pages all are 3 inches long. On the 
first two pages it is asked, " Which is the longer line ? " 
for the others " and there." It is noticed whether the 
suggestion of difference persists. 
5. Problems. 

(i.) " A person walking in Epping Forest suddenly 
stopped, much frightened, and hastened to tlie nearest 
police station and reported that he had seen lianging 
from the branch of a tree a ^vhat?" 

(ii.) " My neighbour has been having strange visitors. 
He has received one after the oilier a doctor, a lawyer, 
and a clergyman. What has happened at the house of 
my neighbour ? " 

Fifteen -year- olds. 

1. Should interpret the picture, using words expressive 
of emotion. 

2. Change the hands of a clock. Without seeing the 
clock-face the child is told to think of a time, such as 
twenty minutes past six, and then asked what would be the 
time if the hands were changed about, minute hand for 
hour hand, and vice versa. 



A 


D 


G 


B 


E 


H 


C 


F 


1 



J. 


M 


p 


K- 


N 


o 


L 


6 


R 




3. Codes. A diagram as above is constructed, whilst 
the child looks on ; he notes the arrangement of the letters 

8 



114 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

in vertical rows and against the clock, and the dots used in 
the second and fourth. Once the scheme is known a 
cipher can be constructed by using the parts of the 
diagram nearest the letter without the letter; thus " war" 
would be written \/J p~. He is then asked to write a 
short sentence of one or two words without seeing the 
diagrams or drawing them, and purely from memory. 

4. Opposites. The child is asked to write the opposites 
of a number of words, e.g. good, tall, rich, thin, war, 
friend. Nineteen words are given and seventeen should be 
correct. 



CHAPTER IX 
THE PHYSICALLY DEFECTIVE 

THE ambulances of the invalid or cripple schools are now 
seen in all large towns. The schools are established under 
the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic) Act, 
18S9, quoted on p. 98 ; originally intended for cripples, 
their scope has been widened and extended as the result 
of experience. There is also a greater readiness of doctors 
to advise attendance at such a school, rather than to 
give certificates invaliding over long periods. Children are 
admitted with any chronic disease or crippling deformity 
when unable or unfit to work with healthy children in the 
ordinary school. The bulk of the cases will be children 
with tuberculosis of the spine or joints, paralysis, or heart 
disease. Certain cases of chronic or relapsing rheumatism 
or chorea, asthma, chronic bronchitis, exophthalmic goitre, 
or haemophilia are also suitable. The education in such 
schools is inevitably costly, and admission should be 
refused to unsuitable cases even if physically defective, 
such as children with hernia, chronic renal disease, trivial 
deformities, and compensated heart lesions without symp- 
toms, which under the school doctor's supervision do as 
well in the ordinary school. Epileptics should be excluded 
as detrimental to other scholars, if not to themselves, and 
also children objectionable in respect to habits, discharges, 
or dirt. Cases of progressive paralysis are rarely worth 
educating. Children with early pulmonary tuberculosis 

115 



11 G SCHOOL HYGIENE 

should be reserved for residential country or open-air 
schools. 

Mental defect to any notable degree is a reason for 
exclusion, as the child cannot take advantage of the 
education offered. Allowance must be made for the fact 
that invalid children are usually very backward. They 
have been deprived for months or years not only of school- 
ing but of the companionship of other children, and contact 
with the illuminating life of the streets. A spurious feeble- 
mindedness may even be induced, especially in tubercular 
or paralysed children, which may take months to clear up. 

After entrance each case should undergo full examina- 
tion by an expert, to determine the nature of the work 
to be done and the probable course of the case. Physical 
exercises are practised as far as possible, having regard 
to the defects. The children are taught to take their 
drawbacks philosophically, and not to regard them as an 
excuse for evasion of duty or appeal to sentiment. Much 
importance is attached to development of any artistic 
sense and to handwork. The older children should be 
trained for selected occupations requiring brains rather 
than physical exertion ; such are designing, bookbinding, 
fine mechanical work, jewellery, watch-making, etc., for 
the boys, and certain kinds of domestic service and the 
lace and needlework trades for the girls. It may be 
expected that from 30 to 40 per cent, of all the pupils 
will never be fit for industrial employment, though nearly 
all can be trained to do work in their own homes which, if 
not remunerative, at least fills out and broadens their lives. 

Hospital operative treatment on the crippled cases is 
functionally usually comparatively ineffective in its later 
results. The children recover better if able to spend the 
first year after operation in a country school of recovery. 
The pattern school is at Chailey, in Sussex. Heart disease 
accounts for half the deaths among these scholars, and is, 



PHYSICALLY DEFECTIVE 117 

indeed, the commonest cause of hospital deaths between 
the ages of eight to fifteen years. 

Schools for the physically defective should be one- 
storied buildings constructed on open-air principles, with 
verandas and large French windows opening without steps 
on to the playground. Good space for play is needed, as 
much time should be spent outside. The classes should 
not have more than twenty pupils. The hours may be 
9.30 till 4.30, as the school conditions are not heavy and 
generally more hygienic than the home. Midday dinner 
must be provided for all the children, with a liberal and 
varied diet, including ample meat, stewed fruit, and 
fresh milk. School baths are very desirable. 



CHAPTEE X 

BLINDNESS 

MANY become blind through the incidence of disease in 
adult life, but they cannot be compared with those blind 
from an early age, who are rarely other than socially 
dependent. Although each blind child costs some three 
hundred pounds or more for education, this helps towards 
making them self-supporting. The Elementary Education 
(Blind and Deaf) Act, 1893, defines a blind child for educa- 
tional purposes as " too blind to be able to read the ordi- 
nary schoolbooks used by children." This test of blindness 
is simple; it includes not only the truly blind, but also the 
semi- blind with very defective vision, and high myopes 
who can see well but would suffer from ordinary school- 
work. 

The truly blind perceive no light, although many have 
the power of orienting a light or shadow which extends to 
or above the level of their head by what is termed facial 
perception. Those are also counted as practically blind 
who perceive lights and shadows up to making out the 
movements of a hand or even counting fingers within a 
metre off. The age recognized for school attendance is 
from five to sixteen. 

For the blind, literary work is managed by the tactual 
impression of raised dots. These up to the number of six 
in certain positions constitute the Braille alphabet, and can 
be used for reading and writing. The sensibility of the 

118 



BLINDNESS 119 

finger-tips is not greater than is found among normal 
children, but the mental interpretations are enormously 
heightened by education. Chilling or coldness diminishes 
this sensibility, so that the classrooms must not fall below 
62 Fahr. For the same reason debility and poor circula- 
tion must be guarded against. Poor physique is common, 
and physical exercise and respiratory training is needed. 
There are various habits, especially the deportment in 
sitting and walking, which require attention. Personal 
hygiene is often defective, and tendencies to fingering and 
picking eyelids, nostrils, or ears, and to rhythmic movements 
often require prevention. It is obvious that teachers must 
be sighted, but vision such as myopia over 4 diopters, or 
diminished visual acuity, V = A, which would prevent 
teaching work in an ordinary school, may be permitted in 
blind schools. 

There are perhaps two thousand blind children being 
educated in this country, but probably half this amount will 
be replaced by semi-blind in a few years. The causes of 
blindness will also vary relatively, with time. When the 
Act of 1893 was put into force, the results of ophthalmia 
neonatomm accounted for 40 to 50 per cent, of the pupils. 
This disease, a purulent inflammation of the lining mem- 
brane within the eyelids occurring in infants during the 
first week of life, was lately made notifiable, which will 
result in a great decrease in juvenile blindness. 

Other causes of blindness in children are congenital 
deformities of the eyes ; and defects, especially cataract, 
and atrophy of the optic nerves, often due to inherited 
syphilis : these account for about 20 per cent. There are 
also preventable causes arising from ulceration leaving 
opacities, inflammations from inherited disease, catarrhal 
infections, or contagious disease; these perhaps make up 
10 per cent. 

Blind-school pupils should have a detailed ophthalmic 



120 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

examination recorded at least once a year. Pain and 
suffering may often be relieved, possibilities of some visual 
improvement detected ; and even where eyes have been 
removed the condition of the sockets needs watching, 
especially as any discharge may be contagious. Those 
wearing artificial eyes or shells should be especially in- 
structed in their care and use. 

MYOPIA SCHOOLS. A large miscellaneous group suffering 
with permanently damaged eyes or diseased conditions, 
who may be actually harmed by ordinary schooling, come 
under the definition of the Act as educationally blind. 
Children with diminished visual acuity, seen in cases with 
corneal opacity ; with chronically recurring phlyctenulse, 
who should be at the seaside ; with interstitial keratitis, old 
choroiditis, high myopia, congenital cataract, dislocated 
lenses, congenital absence or deformity of iris, some albinos, 
and some children with nystagmus, make up a group 
more numerous than the blind, but from the results to 
be obtained more worth educating. Cases of advancing 
myopia in young children should be included. The schools 
for these pupils, first started for high myopes, are known as 
myope schools. They count with blind for grant purposes. 
They have chiefly oral teaching, for which they attend the 
elementary school. The pupils are not allowed to look at 
any book or write on any paper. Literary work is entirely 
done in large broad-lined letters on the blackboard, or 
hand-printed in letters about 2 inches square with india- 
rubber-faced types. Manual occupations like cookery and 
carpentry are useful. Plenty of physical exercise is en- 
couraged, although some of the myopes have to be warned 
or even withdrawn from these lessons for risk of retinal 
haemorrhage or detachment. Lessons are correlated as far 
as possible, e.g. a child listens to an oral lesson on history 
or geography at the ordinary elementary school, and re- 
produces at the myopic school what he has been taught by 



BLINDNESS 121 

means of large sketch maps, or composition, according to 
the text of the lesson. 

Children are found who, where there are difficulties in 
attendance at such a school, should be permitted to attend 
the ordinary school under restrictions rather than be 
invalided. 

Oral teaching only should be employed for such children, 
chiefly myopes, as must not be allowed to use books, paper, 
pens, or pencils. The children should frequently be re- 
minded that the restriction is only for their own good and 
to preserve their vision till they grow up, and that certain 
things are equally important to avoid out of school as in 
school. 

Easy treatment, when suggested to the teacher, should 
mean seating the child in the front row of the class and 
preventing it bending over any work. Girls may do 
knitting by touch, but must not sew. Books with small 
print must be prohibited and only a bold handwriting 
without lines permitted. No exercises involving reading or 
writing of masses of figures or geometrical diagrams are 
allowed. Eeading large-type books for not more than 
twenty minutes at a time may be permitted, and home 
lessons are to be prohibited. Drill, dancing, games, all 
object-lessons, demonstrations, and oral lessons should be 
attended. 



CHAPTEE XI 

DEAFNESS 

THE special education of the deaf is provided for under the 
Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf) Act, 1893, the 
definition, as in the case of the blind, being drawn on a 
wide and practical basis as those " too deaf to be taught in a 
class of hearing children in an elementary school." Schools 
are not to be considered as in any way connected with 
the institutes for the deaf, which have established financial 
interests in philanthropic and charitable aid, and which not 
only destroy much of the results of education, but in tend- 
ing to segregate the deaf rather do educational harm, apart 
from their bringing congenitally deaf people together in a 
dysgenic way that frequently results in a further propa- 
gation of this trouble in the next generation. It is only in 
the last four or five years of school-life that the residential 
school training in manual and trade work overbalances the 
disadvantage of removal from the natural education by 
contact with everyday life in the home and street. The 
home should help the school. About 15 per cent, of the 
congenitally deaf-mutes have inherited their defect, and 
there are probably ten thousand people in this country 
either deaf, or the children of deaf, who can transmit the 
defect, and who, if they should marry a similar or related 
individual, may have deaf families. This statement might 
also be extended to include the degenerative conditions of 
congenital cataracts, retinitis pigmentosa, and mental 

123 



DEAFNESS 123 

deficiency. There are some reasons for supposing that 
most of the other cases of deafness appearing soon after 
birth are the result of inherited syphilis. 

A child learns to speak in its second year of life, but if 
hearing be lost before the sixth or seventh year speech will 
go too, unless pains be taken to preserve it. The deaf 
child should learn speech as soon as possible: education 
must begin at three, although the compulsory age is not 
till seven ; indeed, the first question of educational im- 
portance asked is "When did the child become deaf?" 

Half the children in deaf schools are not those very early 
cases, but have acquired disease chiefly through destructive 
inflammation of the middle ear with suppurative discharge. 
This may begin acutely as a result of the zymotic diseases, 
especially in children with naso-pharyngeal obstruction, but 
it also occasionally occurs as a result of catarrhal con- 
ditions from such obstruction. The last class are chiefly 
children with some hearing, and about a third of the 
number can be materially relieved by suitable treatment. 
A girl of twelve, for instance, deaf to the ordinary voice for 
several years, after mastoid operation heard a forced 
whisper across a large room at 10 metres. 

Careful otological examination is necessary in every case, 
and the success of operative treatment is so great in saving 
some hearing that few scars of mastoid operations are seen 
in the deaf schools. 

The next important question asked is " How much 
hearing is left ? " The deaf may be stone-deaf, hear noises, 
vowel sounds, or actual words. In testing children, those 
who hear the ordinary speaking voice over 2 metres are fit 
for the elementary school ; between 1 and 2 metres they 
should try the front row of the school class ; below this, to 
half a metre, a " hard-of-hearing " class is most, suitable ; 
if this cannot be attended, then the deaf school. 

In middle-ear deafness, acuity to whispered speech is 



124 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

often lost before noticeable deafness to the speaking voice 
conies on. The detection of this loss, and immediate 
medical treatment, would lessen the number of cases of 
deafness, especially in later life. Many cases of catarrhal 
deafness originating with enlarged tonsils and adenoids 
come on insidiously, sometimes with noises in the head, 
and lead to slowly increasing deafness, characterized by 
hearing better in a noise, in the third decade of life. 

The forced whisper that is, voiceless articulation after 
expiration, using only the residual chest air should be heard 
by a normal child, in a quiet country playground, at 20 
to 24 metres, with the eyes covered, and 4 or 5 metres 
further if eyes are open. It is a serious mistake for official 
records to be accepted as normal under a third of this 
distance. A child who does not hear the forced whisper 
at 2 metres is hard of hearing, and requires special 
education, and if it is a congenital case without speech, it 
should be trained in a deaf school. Some very deaf 
children with good intelligence get along surprisingly well. 
A small girl of about eleven, sent up as very hard of hearing 
to be admitted to a deaf school, had already got on to doing 
algebra at her ordinary school, and although a congenital 
case, scarcely hearing the ordinary voice across a table, she 
was returned there. The deaf child should always attend 
the highest grade of hearing school in which it can progress. 
The older children should be gathered where manual and 
trade instruction can be given. Tailoring, shoe-making, 
carpentry, and graphic arts do for boys, but apart from 
work as engravers, metal work and agriculture appear 
unsuitable. Girls make good dressmakers and laundry 
workers of the best kind. The deaf child suffers from 
deprivation according to the depth of its defect, so that a 
deaf-mute of sixteen is mentally on the level of a normal 
twelve-year-old. These children are usually more attentive 
and sharper observers than ordinary, although in the 



DEAFNESS 125 

ordinary school the less deaf among them seem to become 
inattentive from the fatigue of straining to hear. 

Good vision is . so important to the deaf that every 
attention must be given to getting full value, by correction 
with glasses, by preventing external ocular diseases, and 
avoiding strain. Fine work like writing or sewing should 
be scrupulously avoided before the age of ten years. 

Hard-of-hearing classes, as already indicated, have been 
started for the semi-deaf, some of whom are now found 
among the pupils in deaf schools and more in the ordinary 
schools. They retain the power of hearing words or even 
short sentences. Most will never become totally deaf , and 
many will, with the aid of training and apparatus, retain or 
improve their speech and mix with the general population. 
Training in lip-reading, articulation, and voice production 
is essential, and many after a few months should return 
to the ordinary school, at which, indeed, they generally attend 
for many subjects. The classes, although officially counted 
as deaf, should rather be in connection with the ordinary 
schools than with the deaf. Where tried, the scholastic 
results, and the improvement in brightness and tone of the 
children, have been remarkable. 

So far it has been assumed that the deaf are mentally 
normal and capable of learning oral speech. It is wrong 
not to attempt this for all. Many will learn badly, but will 
understand and be understood by those with whom they 
come in daily contact. A few cannot learn sufficiently ; 
they are about 10 to 20 per cent, of the deaf, and, as a rule, 
are mentally defectives who happen to be deaf, and should 
be removed to other institutions, rather than be taught by 
manual alphabet signs in an oral school. 

Combined Defects. The combined defects of blindness, 
deafness, mental or physical defect are so rare that each 
case must be individually considered. In all cases the 
mentality is the first thing that counts. A few cases 



12C SCHOOL HYGIENE 

occurring late in school-life, where defective vision from 
interstitial keratitis is accompanied by deafness, are due to 
inherited syphilis. They are not satisfactory as a rule, and 
do not require special education, but sometimes exclusion as 
invalid. Total deafness or blindness is exceedingly rare 
as a result, and often some improvement by treatment is 
obtained in the visual condition, but rarely in the hearing. 



CHAPTER XII 
THE SCHOOL PROGRAMME 

A STUDY of the physiological and experimental facts given 
in Chapters I and II suggests important practical lessons 
as to schoolwork. 

The school year is divided into terms by the holidays. 
These holidays are necessary for mental and bodily re- 
cuperation. Certain fatigue effects, particularly subjective 
feelings, become evident to both teachers and pupils during 
the term. There is also a notable increase in anaemia, 
especially as a result of examinations. This subject, how- 
ever, needs investigation with respect to work and season . 

Holidays appear to have been determined by religious 
festivals and the harvest. The harvest holiday, established 
before stage-coach days, is nowadays often wastefully long, 
and a month is abundant change for schools, or for pro- 
fessional men who are not becoming senile. The holidays 
of a fortnight at Christmas and a fortnight at Easter are 
of such value that they should never be curtailed. The 
long stretch through September to December requires a 
holiday of a week, or better ten days, about the middle 
of October. Allowance is made in the Code Eegulations 
for holidays up to twelve weeks. The usual amount in the 
elementary schools does not exceed eight weeks. With 
the intensive nature of teaching work and the worrying 
and harassing detail to attend to constantly in administra- 
tion, this is not an excessive amount of holiday, and in 

127 



128 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

view of the steady increase of neurasthenia at earlier ages 
among teachers a midterm autumnal holiday is almost a 
hygienic necessity. 

The school week is of ten sessions. In elementary 
schools it is the rule to keep Saturday free. This is recom- 
mended for all day-schools, unless an abundant facility 
exists for games ; in this last case, and in residential schools, 
there is advantage in working on Saturday morning and 
setting one other afternoon free. 

The school day is generally two sessions, separated by a 
couple of hours from 12 till 2 p.m. for lunch. It is not 
quite certain that this is the best arrangement. At Halle, 
observation by a very acute worker showed that with 
children working the same number of hours daily, those 
who worked double sessions continuously had much less 
sickness than those who worked both morning and after- 
noon sessions with a lunch interval between. With an 
afternoon session from 2 till 4.30 p.m., the latter part of the 
day is often dark in winter, and in country districts not 
safe for young children to return home. In summer, again, 
the last hours of the afternoon may be exhausting from 
heat, particularly in the usual small, ill-ventilated class- 
rooms. With the introduction of a school midday meal 
as part of the educational provision a double session has 
advantages and economy, except in manufacturing districts, 
where the women minding machinery need to have their 
own children minded. 

The Duration of Lessons. The efficiency of a lesson 
depends on maintaining the attention of the pupils and 
giving them opportunity to inwardly digest it subcon- 
sciously. Attention markedly diminishes in half an hour, 
but this depends also on the nature and mode of work. 
With a lesson properly broken up, explanations by teacher, 
desk work, and spontaneous hand work or blackboard work, 
all intermingled, the duration might be longer than a 



THE SCHOOL PROGRAMME 129 

continuous lesson of writing or reading. Laboratory and 
manual work, which have a variable and intermittent 
quality, can go on for longer still. Every lesson which 
lasts over forty minutes should have at least one 
break of three or four minutes, for some quick, coarse, and 
massive muscular exercises, to stimulate the heart and 
promote lively blood and lymph movements. 

It is worth trying to realize the hygienic value of the 
fundamental schoolwork. Writing can be used as an 
illustration of how educational methods may be influenced. 
The learning of letters and writing, being without much 
intellectual content, is usually a very tedious task to intel- 
ligent children, many of whom do not put forward the 
effort to acquire a good hand. Although generally taught 
as a visual performance, this is objectionable for ocular 
reasons. The eye only being necessary to keep the lines 
straight, writing should be learned by muscular sense, as a 
typist learns to work without looking at the keyboard. It is 
further so trying as a fine finger exercise that small writing 
should only be permitted under restrictions before nine or 
ten years of age, and as a definite writing exercise with 
pen and paper wholly prohibited before seven years of 
age. If there is to be any copybook work it must be 
letter elements of considerable size and very rapidly done. 
Slow work is not good here, and small-text writing should 
only be permitted with a covered pen-point. No letters are 
to be made less than 3 millimetres in height ; the relation 
of spacings should approximate to those of print. Dotted 
lines distract or strain the eyes, and only very thick guide 
lines are permissible midway between the lines of script, 
and not to be touched by any letter ; they are merely for 
orientation of the words. With a book thus ruled good 
writing can be done, the letter in formation being hidden 
by the pen-nib being thrust through a paper shield the size 
of a penny. Writing thus learned may be expected to be 

9 



130 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

better than that visibly done. This unseen test of whether 
writing has been properly taught as a subconscious 
muscular action is reliable, and yet how few eight-year- 
olds could be found able to write their names in letters 
the size of their hand on the blackboard with closed eyes. 
Manual work is of importance because it brings into 
activity the motor centres of the brain, besides giving 
dexterity and skill. It also forms a means of educating 
and developing other centres indirectly, because no manual 
work can be done in a spuriously accurate way; there 



FIG. 15. Orienting lines for copy-book for young children. 

is none which does not call for careful estimation and 
accurate judgment. Many retarded children, on coming in 
contact with manual work which provides as it were access 
to the highest levels through the motor areas of the brain, 
often undergo a most unexpected acceleration in mental 
development. To learn by doing should play a prepon- 
derating part in the education of retarded children, if not of 
all, and especially, too, in any intermediate schools. This 
is not the place to dwell upon the full educational extension 
of manual work as set out by Kirschensteiner and others. 



131 

Prom the hygienic point of view, however, there should be 
a continuous scheme, from the sticklaying of the infants 
up to forms requiring the slide-rule and graphs among the 
elder boys. 

Discipline and punishment are extremely difficult for 
any one to speak of who is not actually handling children. 
To say that no corporal punishment is to be used, and that 
a teacher who cannot succeed with kindness and appeals 
to reason is not efficient, betrays ignorance of a large 
number of children. There are all varieties in the natural 
age levels and in gifts, so that children vary from 
imbeciles to geniuses, and from an intellectual level below 
that of Hottentots to the highest ; were teachers too all of 
equal mental level, this statement would be enough. They 
would recognize the aggressive little savage only to be 
controlled by appeals to common sensation as speedily as 
they would know the sensitive, emotional, but passive and 
undeveloped child, and make the proper appeal to it. The 
majority fortunately can be won over by such emotional 
appeals, either by kindness or respect for their personality ; 
whether such emotional appeal is always good, even if 
successful, is not beyond discussion, but there is a very 
variable remainder in which the correction to be applied 
must be Nature's most elementary method that is, the fear 
of physical pain ; as Stanley Hall has expressed it, " some 
need the training of fear, some of anger." No teacher is 
justified in inflicting punishment unless satisfied that the 
perversity or unruliness of the child is not merely the 
reaction of starved nerve centres through their want of 
exercise or want of food. City children with practically 
no freedom for play, bad-tempered, quarrelsome, and 
peevish, become, when taken out of the classroom into the 
open air, for a few weeks even merely in a playground 
class, cheerful, smiling, happy, and companionable, and a 
cup of milk, with its important vitamines, or a good meal 



132 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

daily, often works wonders in those who do not come along 
with the others. 

The effects of rheumatism, and particularly the early 
stages of chorea, are manifested by strange irritability, 
sometimes even irrationality of conduct. It is not only 
ill- nutrition which accounts for nervous reaction of this 
type: the "nervous child " often reacts to effort by exhaus- 
tion and irritability, so that it shows school anxiety or 
worry in one direction, plays truant, misbehaves, or makes 
many working mistakes in the other. 

A child should not be punished who shows signs of 
nervousness in that it bites its nails, or has twitching about 
the face, or has fine tremor in its extended fingers. 
Corporal punishment should be quite rare above eleven 
years of age, and almost forbidden above about thirteen, 
when the enormous psychical change or development in 
children begins. Although young children may be none 
the worse for physical punishment proportioned to the 
child and the crime, any excess of entries in the punish- 
ment-book may mean that the teacher should see a doctor. 

Examinations are chiefly sources of danger to older 
scholars, especially when they are of a competitive char- 
acter, bringing into action the force of emulation. Girls 
are peculiarly prone to suffer when subject to competitive 
examination. The best results of a teacher's work, espe- 
cially his personal influence on the training of mental or 
moral powers and the influence of an upright and con- 
sistent example, can, however, never be brought to the 
test of an examination, although, speaking generally, well 
conducted examinations, as at the University, give a fair 
idea of the candidate's capacity. The general impression 
of an answer is superior to detailed marks. The method 
of assigning so many marks to each possible part of an 
answer is utterly bad, and only excusable on red-tape 
lines, giving an easy but spurious assessment of the 



THE SCHOOL PROGRAMME 133 

candidates. Actual results of work done in examinations 
are below work done in ordinary routine, and handicap 
the weakest most, there being up to 30 per cent, of 
falling off. 

For elementary schools, the less of formal examination 
the better; even in awarding scholarships other things 
than mere written answers should weigh. With fixed age- 
limits, Jewish children, as already mentioned, are likely 
to gain scholarships far in excess of their subsequent 
performances, owing to their twelve to eighteen months' 
physiological precocity over English children ; height and 
weight should be handicapped for each age. 

Beyond the elementary school, examinations, if properly 
conducted and not too hard, should be a tonic to the 
scholar, as interesting and exciting as the race to the 
athlete. The astute examinee even accumulates much 
examination lore in the way of acquiring marks. 

Where much is made to depend upon the result, and 
where the examinations are prolonged over days or weeks, 
the strain may be severe. Measurements of Russian 
students showed increasing anaemia, loss of appetite and 
great loss of weight during their six weeks of examinations, 
and the constantly increasing suicides of young people 
in Germany, Austria, and Russia form a statistical protest 
against the examination system and its importance in 
these lands. 



CHAPTEE XIII 

THE TEACHER'S HEALTH 

THE teacher's profession is one of the sheltered occupa- 
tions. The results are shown in long lives, for in the 
mortality statistics it ranks next to the clergy, and far 
beyond that of the medical man as conducive to length 
of days. The national value of teaching is daily gaining 
in appreciation, but there' is a satisfaction and reward 
in the daily task far beyond that of most occupations. 
To see the result of effort, to find out how it may be 
improved, to trace causes and effects, make this a profession 
that to the interested and earnest worker brings a con- 
tinuous opportunity of self-expression and of satisfaction 
in doing. This method of approaching and dealing with 
the daily task has also an enormous personal hygienic 
value, and reacts in the whole bearing and social relations 
of the teacher. On the other hand, the teachers who 
lose interest, and who come to work by routine and rule 
of thumb, soon begin to think of themselves and to feel 
strain. There are very real difficulties in the organization 
of such an extensive profession, but at the same time 
the tendency is more gradually extending to give a 
teacher a freer hand, and to allow great latitude in work. 
To have a good teacher and get full expression from the 
work there is, so far as the writer can judge, a considerable 
necessity to do more to raise them above, and make them 
feel safer from, the cares of daily existence. 

134 



THE TEACHER'S HEALTH 135 

The teacher's health, unless his work is carried out 
under the best conditions, is more apt to suffer from over- 
work than the scholar's. The strain upon his strength, 
bodily and mental, is greater, and he probably has much 
less variety of occupation than his pupils. This is particu- 
arly so when he teaches special subjects. 

The actual facts imparted in school are of almost 
jecondary importance compared to what the child picks 
ip otherwise. The conduct and personality of the teacher 
&ndT influence of childish companions have a more power- 
ful influence on the child's future than any subject taught. 
"Vithout this tone our older foundations would be poor 
as educational institutions. There are, or were, teachers 
vhose rooms children visit with fear. School anxiety is 
a real thing to many pupils as well as masters, and a 
nervous, overpressed, and irritable teacher, a teacher for 
waom one can do nothing right, or even a teacher with 
a strident voice or an untidy dress, may cause trouble 
to a pupil. The wisdom of Terman's words in his little 
bcok on The Teacher's Health makes it worth study 
bj every one engaged in schoolwork. He speaks of 
ths mental fixation due to monotonous repetition of ele- 
mentary activities under conditions of strain, which 
prevent other lines of mental functioning. One of the 
eam'est symptoms of the protracted nervous overstrain 
is the elimination of interests which do not contribute 
directly to the day's work; one after another is lopped 
off till life is stripped; the mind narrows, becomes 
mechanical, and loses humanity. Eecreatibn should 
become the teacher's religion, mental creativeness should 
be sought in some form, or fixation and early decay is 
cert tin. 

A teacher almost lacks time to attend to the higher 
aspects of work in the elementary school. Indeed, a 
teacher with views is too often regarded as a nuisance 



136 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

by those outside the school. A few are developing what 
is called Child Study, but the majority are compara- 
tively passive and appear to have lost freshness and 
originality. Teachers should make themselves heard in 
every aspect of school-life. School hygiene is of vita) 
importance and a subject on which many of the besl 
writings abroad are by those who are, or have actually 
been, teachers. It is only when the profession can speal 
with authority and knowledge above mere opinion thai 
real professional freedom will be attained. 

As a class the teacher is long-lived, and, as statec, 
only surpassed by the clergy, and far ahead of doctor 
or lawyer, and yet among teachers individuality is largel/ 
destroyed, and they become to a great extent meie 
machines, suffering considerably from non-fatal illneffl, 
and often having a depressing instead of an uplifting fa- 
fluence in social life. The side of the profession most 
impressive, however, to the doctor is the one which shows 
strain and its effects in breakdown, and although ttts 
may give a serious bias to his views, he is none the less 
able to utter warnings about the risks. 

The profession is selected carefully, both mentally 
and physically. The mental strain of study on narrow 
and regulated lines in a candidate for the profession 
has much to do with mental sterility in later life. Medical 
examinations have to be submitted to on commencing 
studies and on finishing them. No one is a suit&ble 
person for this work who is not thoroughly healthy ; 
any defect or deformity which would interfere vith 
physical exercise or blackboard work is inadmissible. 
A stature of over five feet is necessary to see of er the 
class. The slightest articulatory defect, lisp, stamoier, 
or want of control of the voice is objectionable. Normal 
vision with glasses is necessary, but even then people 
with glasses for spherical refraction above 3 diopters, 



THE TEACHER'S HEALTH 137 

or more than 2 diopters of astigmatism, should seek 
other work. The slightest suspicion of any weakness of 
the chest makes avoidance of the profession desirable. 
The heart must be quite normal. No defect of hearing 
or aural discharge is safe, and those with good but 
variable hearing, particularly with occasional noises in 
the head, are very likely to find by thirty years of age 
that schoolwork is difficult for them. Neurasthenic 
symptoms during training should lead to unhesitating 
rejection in the candidate's own interest in later life. 

Phthisis or consumption is supposed to be the great 
danger. Looking to the medical selection made, an ex- 
cessive proportion suffer, although low in mere numbers 
compared with other occupations. With pulmonary 
phthisis a teacher should be excluded for twelve months 
from any schoolwork. Even if not dangerous to others, 
this offers the greatest hope of recovery. The best and 
cheapest course would be for the State to put the 
phthisical teacher at once permanently on half-pay. 
However well, no phthisical teacher should return to 
school if sputum is still present. Indeed, any teacher 
attacked by phthisis, however sound he may seem to 
have become, would be wise in his own interest to 
sacrifice prospects and, changing his occupation, to decide 
never to work in school again. 

Neurasthenia is rapidly becoming a bugbear to the 
profession. It may show itself early and be got over 
for years, but the serious form begins later than thirty- 
five years of age. The absence of rest or relaxation 
during school hours, the continual examining and judging 
things and acts, leads to strain, which at first becomes 
evident in over-action. The quiet, self-possessed teacher 
is rare. Over-action shows itself in loud voice, facial 
expression, hurry and movement, and irritability. Later, 
larval or undeveloped neurasthenia appears in many, 



138 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

first, perhaps, as hair-splitting, or undue magnification of 
trivial points, then as excessive tiredness, sleeplessness, 
loss of memory, ideas of incapacity and worn-outness, 
or as digestive troubles, palpitation of the heart, queer 
dizzy feelings about the head, or even headaches. These 
feelings may come on slowly towards the end of the 
session or term, and vanish with the holiday. They may 
also come suddenly, " one day when standing in front of 
the class," a cold, influenza, a little over-exertion, or trivial 
disappointment or accident, may determine the onset 
which years of varied anxiety has prepared and for 
which months of recovery may be necessary. It is no 
wonder that the teacher is tempted to seek spurious 
results in immediate effects in educational work. The 
full evidence of their work cannot be finally seen in 
school, it must be waited for; the crop of children 
leaving school will show it, better still those who have 
been a year or two in the throng and press of life. 

Teachers who have had warning of nervous trouble 
must be content to go quietly and set all their activities 
on a lower plane. Pressure and strain are greatly in- 
creased, and efficiency probably hindered, by the piling 
up of administrative regulations to be continuously 
followed in the minutest detail. The demand for things, 
in themselves unobjectionable, may react by snowing 
under the chance of other good and interesting work. 
A reliance on human nature and much less mechanical 
supervision would enormously relieve the anxious strain 
on every one in school. Teachers should be liberally 
treated in genuine breakdown. The pay, and especially 
the pensions, often seem quite inadequate, and financial 
anxiety is one of the most considerable factors in 
neurasthenia as displayed when the doctor has gained 
the confidence of a sufferer. 

There are subsidiary causes of troubles. 



THE TEACHER'S HEALTH 139 

Voice failure is one of the earliest. Some pharyngitis 
and sore throat, with tired feelings or tenderness about 
the side of the larynx, are early symptoms, usually to be 
ascribed to improper voice production. This is generally 
caused by pitching the tones too high, and often arises 
from fatigue or where two classes are in one room, in 
the open air, or in a room with smoothly finished walls 
which echo. Hoarseness is common as a chronic sequel ; 
it is occasionally due to the so-called "teachers' nodes," 
fibrous thickening on the vocal cord edges, which were 
common a few years ago. Actual loss of voice, which 
generally recovers with good health, occurs occasionally 
in neurotic and anaemic girls. In older teachers hoarse- 
ness may have a serious significance, and must never 
be neglected. 

Teaching in an improperly lighted room, particularly 
facing a light, may be a cause of almost chronic ill- 
health ; again, the strain of vision may produce recurring 
headache or other nervous trouble, even in people with 
remarkably acute distant vision. Every one after forty 
is the better for reading glasses, but any one over 
thirty is likely to gain from working glasses in relieving 
the nervous strain of accommodation if they have much 
paper work to do. The twitching of the lower lid some- 
times felt, or musca volitantes, the floaters seen coming 
across the field of vision, are subjective effects showing 
want of tone and debility, generally relieved by a holiday. 

Women teachers suffer much from digestive troubles, 
partly nervous, partly want of exercise, and helped on 
by tea-drinking to excess. They have also to be warned 
against constipation. In middle life the special danger 
of stimulants, taken first in tea as a rule, begins to appear ; 
it is the beginning of the end. This is one occupation in 
which teetotalism is always to be recommended. Tobacco, 
apart from its evil effects on the heart and nervous system 



140 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

in the young, is worth a word of warning. By smoking 
more than three ounces a week, particularly of the darker 
varieties, loss of tone, debility, or slight illness may bring 
on a visual condition which neither good glasses nor 
improved lighting will remedy, and in which faces appear 
indistinct, brightly lighted objects confusing, and there is 
difficulty in distinguishing a new sixpence from a half- 
sovereign. 

The teacher has many risks in this comparatively 
sheltered and regulated life and must learn how to save 
effort, avoid over-fatigue, and remain efficient. Specializa- 
tion, as a rule, is a mistake from the point of view of 
nerve strain, if the particular subject is worked more 
than two hours a day. The fatigue coefficient of teaching 
is very great, and six hours' work a day is the most allow- 
able ; that being possibly an hour too much . Out of 
school there should be no schoolwork of any kind. The 
secondary school mistress is a constant offender against 
her own interests in this respect. Any professional work 
out of school hours should be in the way of recreation, 
as a hobby which is of interest, and never routine or 
drudgery. 

The day-school teacher at work all day must avoid as a 
waste of nervous capital anything like evening teaching ; 
neither "coaching" nor evening-school work is wise, even 
if well paid, for it has all to be repaid in exhaustion, with 
loss of health and mental vigour. A strenuous hobby to 
take him out of himself, quite apart from his professional 
work, whether it be beetles or Beethoven, is the best thing 
a teacher can possess. There is a trifling professional 
risk of infections of various kinds dealt with at the end 
of the chapter on infectious disease. 



CHAPTEE XIV 
EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 

AFFECTIONS of vision are among the most common 
hindrances to schoolwork, and as in many cases the 
result may be permanent defect in after-life, all concerned 
with education ought to have some knowledge of the 
structure and functions of the eyes. 

The order to "sit up" is the one most often heard 
in school, and the reasons for its frequent repetition are 
worth inquiring into. In fact, the whole of schoolwork 
is influenced by and influences the vision of the child, 
and by grasping the general principles affecting the 
physiology of vision a teacher is not likely to go very 
far wrong in applying them in school practice ; whereas 
even the most conscientious adherence to routine instruc- 
tions frequently results in a mere caricature of the objects 
hoped for. For this reason the first part of this chapter 
will deal only with healthy eyes, and with the differences 
which occur normally, in some ways to the advantage, 
and in others to the disadvantage, of children as compared 
with adults. 

The Physiology of Yision. The actual affection of 
consciousness called vision depends on masses of nervous 
structures situated in the convolutions towards the back 
of the brain (the visual centres in the occipital lobes). 
The light rays acting on the nerve structures in the 
eyeball set up stimuli which are carried through the optic 

141 



142 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

nerves to these visual centres, and there produce conscious 
vision. Vision may be greatly impaired (amblyopia) or 
even blindness result from brain disease without any 
noticeable defect in the eyes. 

The Psychology of Vision. The intelligent apprecia- 
tion and interpretation of vision is a function of a higher 
order ; probably carried out by a different part of the 
brain structure than that concerned in the reception of 
the impressions of sight. It is therefore possible to have 
perfectly clear vision but intellectual perception which is 
poor or entirely absent. This occurs physiologically, i.e. 
normally in the abstraction of deep thought, and it occurs 
in certain acute illnesses when the brain is affected by fever ; 
but there are other cases where from some defect intel- 
lectual appreciation of a limited class of things may be 
defective or wanting. This condition shows itself best 
in connection with vision, in relation to such conventional 
signs as words, letters, or numbers. In such cases a person 
may be capable of dealing with numbers when expressed 
in Arabic numerals, or may be able to recognize and name 
every letter of the alphabet, and yet be quite unable to 
comprehend their simplest combination into words. Such 
" word-blindness " occurs not infrequently as a result of 
disease in the later years of life ; and, although rare, it is 
occasionally seen in school children. 

The higher intellectual visual centres being late in 
development, many young children present some degree 
of this condition. It manifests itself in inability to under- 
stand the spelling of the simplest words, and in rapidly 
forgetting again, so that the teacher says the child has 
no memory. This is a temporary condition for which 
time is the cure. 

Another more general consideration is that whilst the 
lower and early developed visual centres reach their 
maturity comparatively early in school-life, the higher 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 143 

and comparatively late developed centres are only exercised 
by effort and with fatigue : they are most amenable to 
improvement by appropriate exercise, which should be the 
aim of education in later school-life. 

The education by appeal to hand and eye, which is 
physiologically sound with young children and which in 
them involves effort and fatigue, becomes easy after a time, 
owing to the maturing and development of the lower 
centres. There is then risk of continuing to work these 
lower, now well-developed centres, easily and without 
fatigue, and failing to develop the intellectual areas which 
can only be worked by effort. Work in the later years of 
school-life which appeals to hand and eye chiefly, and does 
not involve determined reasoning and intellectual exercise 
of an original kind, is to a great extent vain repetition, and 
may be regarded as educationally almost wasted time. 

In great contrast to the " mind- blindness " due to want 
of development is the extraordinary capacity of the lower 
centres in the same young brains to store away during 
infancy all kinds of memories. Inattentively and uncon- 
sciously the eye receives picture after picture, and probably 
without any real analysis of their worth stores away their 
memories in the brain. Each impression so retained has a 
permanent influence on every future nervous action. The 
storing of these memories is scarcely voluntary. It is more 
of the nature of a passive impress, and the character being 
to a great extent built out of the sum of all such memories, 
character formation is probably going on faster in the infant 
department than at any other time in life. The child at 
this time is almost the victim of its surroundings. In the 
infant school the cleanliness, brightness and colour of 
the schoolroom, the wholesomeness of the other children, 
the neatness of dress (simplex munditiis) and sweetness in 
manner and voice of the teacher may have a more per- 
manent influence than anything she endeavours to teach. 



144 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

The Physics of Vision. In order to see any object it 
is necessary that an optical image of it should be formed on 
the nerve structures in the eye. 

For the formation of an optical image the rays of light 
require to converge to the image. Naturally, however, rays 
from an object diverge, or if the object be very distant they 
diverge so slightly that they may be regarded as parallel. 
These diverging or parallel rays must be rendered con- 
vergent, which can be done by passing them through a 
convex lens, and if a certain choice is made as to form and 
material a lens can be obtained which will form a clear 
image of distant objects at 22-5 millimetres behind its front 
surface (25 millimetres = 1 inch). 

Structure of the Eye. The structures of the normally 
developed eye constitute an optical equivalent for such a 
lens. The form of the globe of the eye is chiefly due to 
its firm external coat of dense fibrous structure, called the 
sclerotic, which shows as the white of the eye. This coat 
makes up the chief thickness of the wall of the eyeball, 
except behind, where it is perforated by the optic nerve, 
and in front over about one-sixth of the surface, where it is 
replaced by the thick horny but transparent cornea. 

Over the inner surface of the sclerotic is spread a thick 
mass of blood-vessels constituting the choroid coat ; this 
is covered on its inner aspect by a layer of dense black 
pigment, preventing reflection of light in the interior of the 
eyeball. Supported by the choroid and lining the interior 
two-thirds of the eyeball is the fine transparent nervous 
sheet called the retina. This is of great complexity of 
structure, and is really an outgrowth from the brain, and 
in the developing chick it can be traced from the time it is 
part of the brain wall till it is the retina in the eye, and 
still connected with the brain by means of the optic nerve. 
About two-thirds of the distance forwards from back to 
front the retina loses its complicated structure and is con- 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 



145 



tinued as a single layer of thin membrane which, with the 
choroid, is gathered into a thick mass of tissue surrounding 
the interior like a collar, and called the ciliary body. In 
front of this again the retina and choroid are continued 
as the thin contractile diaphragm known as the iris. 

Suspended in the opening in the collar of tissue which 
forms the ciliary body is the crystalline lens, a structure 
formed of clear layers of prismatic fibres arranged to form 




PIG. 16. Vertical section of the eyeball. 

1, Sclerotic ; 2, choroid ; 3, ciliary body ; 4, cornea ; 5, iris ; 6, aqueous 
humour ; 7, lens ; 8, vitreous humour ; 9, retina ; 10, optic nerve. 



a very elastic lenticular (double convex) body. The lens 
is contained in a thin capsule which is slung by a number 
of fine fibrils passing from its margin to the nearest pro- 
jections of the ciliary body. In the space in front of the 
lens, between it and the cornea, is the anterior chamber, 
filled with the clear aqueous humour. The rest of the globe 
behind the lens is filled by an equally clear gelatinous 
vitreous humour, or vitreous body ; this is partly surrounded 
by the retina, and in front by the ciliary body and lens. 

10 



146 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

In the normal eye at rest the light from distant objects 
falls as parallel rays on the cornea, which causes them to 
converge slightly ; in passing the iris the more peripheral 
rays of light are cut off, a central beam of light falling on 
the lens ; this powerfully refracts the rays, bending them 
towards the axis, so that a clearly focused optical image 
falls on the centre of the retina, which lies 22 -5 millimetres 
behind the cornea. The numberless impressions produced 
by the rays of varying colours and intensities in the 
different parts of the image cause differing nervous actions, 




FIG. 17. Diagram showing effect of a biconvex lens on rays of light. 

1, Focus of parallel rays ; 2, focus of divergent rays ; 3, focus of 
divergent rays brought nearer by more convex lens. 

which result in innumerable separate stimuli travelling 
along the fibres of the optic nerves to set up conscious 
vision. 

A lens has been spoken of, of such form that rays from 
distant objects are clearly focused in an image 22'5 
millimetres behind the front surface. This corresponds in 
optical action to the eye, which focuses distant objects on 
the retina. The lens of the eye bends light rays to a 
fixed amount, and will therefore bend the diverging rays 
from an object which is not very distant, so that they focus 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 147 

farther behind it than the 22'5 millimetres (as in 2, Pig. 17). 
In order to have the image formed at this required dis- 
tance, more bending power is required, which can only be 
obtained by interposing an auxiliary lens, which will be 
able to convert the diverging rays to parallel before they 
fall on the original lens. In the case of rays from an 
object 1 metre distant, the auxiliary lens would have to be 
such that it could focus parallel rays at a distance of 1 
metre. This is about one-fortieth of the effect of , the 
original lens. In the case of an object half a metre away 
the auxiliary lens would have to be such that the parallel 
rays would be focused at a half metre or one-twentieth the 
power of the original lens, and so on.* For every altera- 
tion in the distance of the object there has to be an 
alteration in the power of the auxiliary lens if the image 
has to remain at a fixed distance, as it does in the eye. 

In the case of the eye this alteration, equivalent to the 
interposition of auxiliary lenses, is effected by a change in 
the shape of the lens, whereby it is enabled to focus 
objects from a distance or from within a few inches of the 
eye, each change in the distance of the object so focused 
involving a corresponding change in the lens of the leye 
(Fig. 17). 

The functions of the eye which may be mentioned are : 

1. Adaptation. 

2. Accommodation (or focusing). 

3. Convergence (or centring). 

The adaptation of the eye embraces several functions 
too complicated to detail here. They are chiefly pro- 

* In ophthalmic practice a lens which would focus parallel rays to 
1 metre is said to have a refractive strength of 1 diopter. A lens 
focusing parallel rays to half a metre is double this power and referred 
to as a lens of 2 diopters, and so in proportion, a lens of 20 centimetres 
focus being 5 diopters. 



148 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

tective. The iris is retracted in a dull light so that the 
pupil is widely opened and admits as much light as 
possible. In bright light the pupil may be pin-point in 
size. In certain nervous or debilitated conditions it is also 
frequently found much dilated. As a rule, on looking at a 
distance the pupil is somewhat dilated, and for near objects 
contracted. 

The power of detecting differences of light and shade 
improves after resting the eye from a quarter to half an 
hour in the dark. It is this that in the narrowest sense 
constitutes adaptation. 

The great functions of importance in schoolwork are 
those of accommodation, performed by internal muscles in 
the eyeball, and convergence, performed by the external 
muscles. 

Accommodation. When the eye is at rest and the gaxe 
is fixed on a near object, a distinct effort is felt which 
corresponds to a certain alteration in the eye. This 
effort and the changes effected by it are known as accom- 
modation. 

The lens at birth is much larger relatively, exceedingly 
elastic, and more hemispherical than in after-life. The 
structures of the eyeball grow at differing rates, the result 
being that the small suspensory fibrils which connect the 
edge of the capsule of the lens with the nearest parts of 
the ciliary body are habitually tense, and put tension on the 
inextensible lens capsule, thus causing the lens to be com- 
pressed and flattened. By the contraction of certain small 
muscular bundles arranged partly circularly and partly 
radially, it is possible for the opening in the ciliary body, 
against which the lens is slung, to be narrowed, the tissues 
being drawn a little forward and in, so that the pull of the 
suspensory fibrils is lessened. When this occurs the tension 
of the lens capsule relaxes and its compressing effect on the 
lens diminishes. The elasticity of the lens now comes into 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 149 

play and it tends to resume its earlier form, becoming 
thicker and more convex. 

In this way the crystalline lens becomes capable of 
bending the diverging rays from near objects to such an 
extent that, as illustrated in Fig. 17, they meet in focus at 
the same position as did parallel rays from a distance when 
the eye was at rest and no accommodation exerted. 

It is obvious also that the accommodation depends 
not entirely on the muscular contraction, but also on the 
elastic properties of the lens which help it to resume its 
original thicker and more spherical state when the pressure 
of the capsule is relaxed. If the elasticity of the lens 
is diminished beyond a certain point, however much the 
muscles are contracted and the tension of the capsule 
relaxed, accommodation may fail. From birth the elasticity 
of the lens steadily lessens, so that the amount of possible 
accommodation diminishes with age. It is greatest in the 
young child. When the age of forty is reached it has 
usually decreased so much that accommodation for objects 
nearer than about 25 centimetres (10 inches) cannot be 
satisfactorily maintained, and reading within the ordinary 
distance becomes difficult. 

The amount of accommodation required increases rapidly 
with the nearness of the object, and consequently the 
muscular effort required to accommodate is also increased. 
The alteration in refraction of the eye in changing from the 
position of rest (distant vision) to the condition required to 
see clearly an object 1 metre (say 40 inches) distant being 
taken as a standard, then the change required to see an 
object at half a metre is twice and at a quarter metre four 
times as great, so that with every increment of distance by 
which the object comes nearer the eye there is a very much 
greater increase in the accommodation required to see it 
clearly. 

The diagram (Fig. 18) represents this relation, and shows 



150 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



that when within a quarter metre (10 inches) from the eye, 
the increase of accommodation represented by the vertical 
lines takes place so rapidly that every inch nearer means a 
disproportionately greater strain on the ciliary muscles. 

These statements are based on the proportions of the 
fully grown and normal eye, which has an axial length of 
22 to 23 millimetres. 



A 




40 20 10 

^----Distances In inches Froth eye > 

FIG. 18. Diagram illustrating increasing amount of accommodation 
required with increasing nearness of object. 

The Young v. the Adult Eye. If the natural history of 
the eye be studied, development will be seen to take place 
from a flattened mass of tissues, which in growth gradually 
tends to become the nearly spherical eyeball. In the new- 
born child the eyeball is relatively short antero-posteriorly, 
with a shorter optical axis than in the adult, and all through 
childhood this condition, becoming less with age, may be 
taken as a normal condition for the eye. In such a 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 151 

relatively shortened eye parallel rays from distant objects 
will not be clearly focused on the retina, but are directed 
to a focus behind it. To get a clear image the lens has to be 
accommodated so that it bends the rays to a focus on the 
retina. The developed adult eye sees distant objects without 
effort when it is in its condition of rest ; the child has to 
compensate by accommodation for the shortness of its eye, 
and the amount of compensation required is greater the 
younger the child ; so that normally children only see 
distant objects clearly by using an effort of accommodation, 
and to see near things they have this effort to make over 
and above the effort which an adult makes to compensate 
for the nearness of the object. This is one of the disadvan- 
tages from which children suffer. 

The minute ciliary muscles are almost ceaselessly in 
action, and this involves considerable nervous strain if they 
are worked up to their full possibilities. These possibilities 
are greatly diminished in older people; but in young 
children, owing to the elasticity of the lens, there is always 
considerable risk of overworking the accommodation, leading 
to fatigue and ultimately to general nerve strain. 

Physiological Law of Work. Immature and develop- 
ing nerve cells are particularly liable to exhaustion by 
continuous work. The natural method of education is for 
the average work done to be comparatively slight, with at 
infrequent intervals very great demands for an exceedingly 
short time. Under such natural conditions an infant 
would employ its vision chiefly on distant things, and 
occasionally for an exceedingly short time on near objects. 
The conditions of school-life practically reverse this. 

Young children set to continuous work with small objects 
are not equal to maintaining the strain of accommodation, 
which, as we have seen, has in their case not only to com- 
pensate for the nearness of the object, but also for the 
comparative shortness of the optic axes of their eyes. 



152 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

If the attempt to maintain clear vision by muscular effort 
be given up, some improvement in the impression can be 
gained by bringing the object nearer the eye. The larger 
image thus produced, being somewhat out of focus, is con- 
fused to an extent depending inversely on the distance ; 
but at the same time the gain in size of the image formed 
on the retina means a greater impress on the nerve endings, 
and consequently a more voluminous nervous stimulus sent 
up to the visual centres in the brain, so that whilst learn- 
ing bad visual habits the child yet gains temporarily. 

In working continuously with small objects, pupils in the 
lower school tend to hold their work from 4 to 6 inches 
from the eye. It ought to be kept at least 10 inches off, 
and the chief problem of hygiene in teaching methods is 
how to effect this necessary working distance. The instruc- 
tion that infants " should not stoop over their work nor 
should they bring it nearer the eyes than 10-12 inches," 
appears to have left out of consideration the fact that with 
infant length of arms this is impossible. 

So far the focusing of the lens to accommodate for 
distance has alone been discussed, but, as in all optical 
apparatus, the centring has to be attended to, the best 
image being that formed in the optic axis. 

Physiology of Vision, continued. The human retina 
is almost peculiar in that, at one small spot, exactly in the 
optic axis, the sensibility of the retina is enormously 
heightened. This is known as the yellow spot, or macula 
lutea. The visual sensibility over the rest of the retina is 
so slight that it would not suffice for the reading of ordinary 
newspaper type. This can be shown by the experiment of 
covering one eye, and then steadily fixing the gaze of the 
other eye on a dot on a newspaper held up at a distance of 
10 inches ; if the eye is kept fixed, it is noticed that only 
the letters over a small area surrounding this fixation point 
can be distinguished. This area of the newspaper type, 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 153 

which could be covered by a shilling, corresponds to the 
part of the image falling on the macula. The great 
difficulty in this experiment is to keep the eye still, for the 
centring mechanisms are so perfect that any attempt to 
distinguish a letter causes almost unconscious adjustment 
of the eye to fix the letter, that is, to centre the eye so that 
the image of the letter falls on the macula. 

Further, another almost exclusively human peculiarity is 
that the two eyes are adjusted in the orbits so that they 
look forwards in their position of rest with the optic axes 
parallel. In most animals the eyes look outwards at an 
angle, in some in such opposite directions that they have 
quite different fields of vision, but in the human being the 
fields of vision of each eye overlap to a great extent, and the 
eyes are adjusted so that the axes intersect in the object 
looked at. 

The eyeball is placed in each orbit and maintained in 
position, in a loose mass of soft fatty tissues, by six small 
muscles, two of which (the oblique muscles) act as auxiliary 
to the others, and also in helping to steady the globe in 
rotation. For school purposes the oblique muscles may be 
neglected. 

There then remain the four straight muscles of each eye 
(internal, external, superior, and inferior recti), which cause 
the eye to turn about its centre of rotation, so that the 
cornea moves in, out, up, down, or in any resultant direc- 
tion compounded from these movements. 

If, for example, the external muscle of the right eye and 
the internal of the left are thrown into action, the eyes are 
rotated to the right and the cornese are noticed to move in 
that direction. 

The centres controlling movements of the eyes lie far 
forwards in the brain, being nearest to the large silent area 
of the frontal lobes, which are generally supposed to be 
associated with complex intellectual processes. The highest 



154 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

intellectual functions involve a concentrated mental action 
which is generally associated with some slight stimulation 
of the neighbouring areas of the brain, in that the eyes, for 
instance, are fixed into a motionless gaze ; the integrity of 
the parts effecting such concentration can be presumed if 
the control of the eye centres is elicited, as a rough test, by 
directing a child to fix its gaze on a small object held up a 
yard or so off. A child which cannot definitely fix and 
maintain its gaze when directed to do so may be judged to 
be wanting to some extent in intellectual qualities. 

On the other hand, children who are backward from 
want of development, caused either by disease or by lack 
of education, as Warner has pointed out, often show lack 
of power in the voluntary movements which should be 
effected by the eye muscles. If told to watch the move- 
ment of a finger or pencil held up before them and moved 
from right to left, and vice versa, they rotate the head 
instead of rotating the eyes. This is a rough but useful 
test for feeble-mindedness in children. 

If the gaze be fixed on a distant point the eyes are said 
to be in the position of rest, with the axes parallel. To 
fix the gaze on a nearer object both internal recti muscles 
are contracted, rotating the globes inwards till the optic 
axes intersect in the object looked at. This action is 
termed convergence. 

Convergence or Centring. The convergence is effected 
by the contraction of the internal recti muscles, and the 
amount of muscular contraction required to maintain this 
convergence increases with the nearness of the object. 
Whether by long continued association and inheritance 
a linking of accommodation and convergence has come 
about cannot be discussed here, but there is an intimate 
connection in the nervous mechanism of the two functions, 
so that when the eyes are converged to a certain distance, 
accommodation is also effected for that distance, and any 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 155 

considerable deviation from this relationship can only be 
obtained and maintained by a considerable nervous strain. 

Nervous Strain from Use of the Eye Muscles. The 
continued overuse of one of these muscles, or of one set 
of muscles, is a most frequent cause of headaches, pain, 
and general nervous disturbances. Apart from cases where 
a slight weakness of one muscle causes over- action and 
pain or neuralgia, as in cases where a tendency to squint 
is habitually corrected (latent squint), severe pain may 
result, more especially in older children or adults, from 
mere overuse of the eyes, as is common in young pupil 
teachers and students with quite normal eyes, from overuse 
of the muscles of convergence, or in many people from 
continual use of one set of muscles, e.g. one external and 
the other internal rectus, in looking out of the carriage 
window in railway travelling. 

The "academy headache," from continuous exertion in 
raising the eyes, is notorious, and in another way is not 
uncommon in the physically powerful cyclist who with 
back horizontal keeps looking ahead, straining the superior 
recti muscles of the eyes and inducing headache even 
with normal, i.e. distant, sight. 

Headaches, unless due to astigmatism, are distinctly rare 
in school children below the age of ten. The cause is 
most commonly found in the naso-pharynx. 

In the case of the child with short ocular axes excessive 
accommodation is needed to compensate for the shortness 
of the eyes, and if the corresponding amount of con- 
vergence is exerted there is an excess of convergence over 
what is necessary ; this means that the eyes are turned 
in too much, and as one eye is possibly a little better either 
in function or relative position than the other, the object 
is " fixed," that is, looked at by the best eye, the other 
being inturned to an excessive amount, constituting 
inward squint. This is a common condition, which may 



156 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

be the result of engaging the child in fine near work, or 
may merely be the result of some debility, temporary or 
otherwise, affecting its capacity to maintain the strain 
necessary to make up for the difference between con- 
vergence and accommodation. If there is great defect in 
the development of the eye, or other defect in vision, the 
squint, which in such cases usually starts before school 
age, may be permanent, but in the majority of cases, either 
with the re-establishment of health or with natural growth, 
it passes off. 

Visual Acuity. The exceedingly acute vision attained 
by a small part of the retina in the optic axis, at the part 
known as the macula lutea, or yellow spot, has been spoken 
of. There is a possibility that although the anatomical 
structure is there at birth, the functional development of this 
visual acuity may be comparatively late, infants not seeing 
quite as well as they ultimately will, because the nerve 
structures of the eye are still immature. A great improve- 
ment in visual acuity is generally assumed as occurring 
between the sixth and seventh birthdays, but this is 
explained by insufficient precautions in testing. With 
sufficient care the vision of six-year-old children is found 
more acute than subsequently. Testing of visual acuity is 
described on p. 165. 

Eye Work in Infant Schools. The functions of the 
eyes and their development in early years of school-life have 
now been traced. Prom consideration of these it is evident 
that in the infant department the greatest consideration 
must be paid to eye work. The infant cannot see so well 
because 

1. In a considerable proportion the actual nervous 
mechanism is not fully matured to give or interpret the full 
value of the image on the retina. 

2. The accommodative and convergent strain cannot be 
maintained for long. 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 157 

3. There is required an excess of accommodation to com- 
pensate for the shorter eyeball. 

The indications from these conclusions are (a) to exclude 
very fine work from infant schools, and (6) to insist on work 
only at a minimum of 10 inches distance from the eyes ; 
otherwise a school habit of near working distance is 
acquired, which to a great extent persists through school- 
life, and is the cause of most of the hygienic troubles of 
the scholar. 

Next to the better ventilation required in most schools, 
the prevention of the formation of the bad habit of holding 
objects at a less distance than 10 inches is the most im- 
portant hygienic improvement needed. 

Much work is done in school involving the continued 
working of nerve centres already trained, or getting results 
in which errors are made less apparent by being made less 
noticeable, or other work having a deceptive appearance 
of accuracy which may be grouped as "spurious result" 
work. 

All fine sewing is to be condemned as uneducational. 
Map-drawing with crow-quill pens and fine name-printing 
are equally bad ; drawing by young children in small squared 
copybooks or on squared slates is likewise wasteful educa- 
tionally. Ordinary children like this kind of work because 
it involves no mental effort, being mainly repetition without 
intellectual effort. 

The younger children who are allowed such work, or even 
drawing with pen or pencil, learn the bad habit of working 
near their eyes, and this is also helped by the method of 
reading as frequently taught the younger children with 
primers. 

It is to be noted that many mentally unsteady individuals 
of what are known as the "higher degenerate" types do 
this mechanical work, which gives results without mental 
effoits, well. 



158 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



Reading and Writing in Infant Schools. Beading 
and writing should be learned, letters first, then their 
groupings into simple words, from symbols not less than 6 
inches long, until the child is quite familiar with them. This 
work in the case of reading should be entirely distant by 
means of blackboard or reading-frames, a very large print 




FIG. 19. Infant writing. 




FIG. 20. Adult writing. 

primer being occasionally allowed in the highest class of 
the infant school to add interest to the lesson. 

Writing begins also by the child gaining familiarity 
with the letter forms by coarse methods, as chalk-draw- 
ing on the blackboard. Every child in a six-year-old 
class ought to be able to come at once from its place, 
take a piece of chalk, and print its name in letters six 
inches long on the blackboard. Unfortunately, few can 
do so. Sand trays, pieces of string, or thick malleable 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 159 

wire to bend into shape, shells to lay down, or pieces 
of stick, are all useful adjuncts to teaching the conven- 
tional signs to very young children. 

Such children should have free-arm work, being made 
to stand well back from the board, and should be set 
to draw things as they see them from the first. 

It cannot be too strongly insisted that needles, pens, 
pencils, and paper are all out of place in the infant school, 
that they cause overpressure and aid the development 
of bad school habits, only got rid of by much re-educa- 
tion in the upper departments ; for instance, an infant 
learning to write with pen or pencil, in its efforts to 
concentrate muscle work, invariably bends the forefinger, 
so that there is an acute angle in it. No infant scholar 
will learn to hold a pen in any other way, for the 
physiological reason that it is the easiest for him. 
Inasmuch, however, as it throws all the work on a few 
fine muscles, it is a bad method for general use, and 
therefore has to be unlearned in Standards I or II. 

Cinematographs. Cinematographs have become a 
popular form of mental dissipation among children. 
They afford excitement and the thrill which broadens 
their emotional life, besides imparting a good deal of 
experience of a passive kind which is a substitute for 
the much healthier nervous functioning of play. The 
instruction conveyed by the cinema in the average show 
is not what the child goes for, and may properly be 
neglected. The excessive emotional stimulation rapidly 
exhausts the child, and premature acquaintance with 
various aspects of life before the power of judgment of 
what is to be accepted and what rejected must be harmful 
to its orientation later as a citizen ; further, the mere 
repetition tends to a blase condition and a stunting of 
the emotional life later, so that they are likely to be 
passive and unresponsive to duty. The other objection, 



160 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

apart from late hours and the foul atmosphere, is eye 
strain. The child is usually in cheap seats in front, and 
the screen is much greater than the field of vision ; it is 
also generally raised, so that the centre of the picture 
is perhaps 30 degrees above the horizon ; under these 
conditions, with the short eyeball of the child, eye strain 
is excessive and headache common from mere overwork 
of the external ocular muscles. It is absurd to have 
costly arrangements in school and to prohibit teachers' 
platforms in classrooms, and yet allow children to attend 
such shows freely. No child under fourteen should be 
allowed in any cinema after seven in the evening, nor 
should it be allowed to sit within 15 feet of the screen, 
or to see a film which has not been especially approved 
for children. 

School Lighting. This is dealt with in a later chapter 
on p. 316. Children suffer, apart from want of light, 
from too rapid changes. The nickering of a gas-jet 
may be painful, the sunshine in a classroom may be 
a real nuisance owing to the eye being adapted for a 
certain average illumination. The eye in the evening 
may find a desk surface too bright to read on when illu- 
mined by seven candle-power, but in the daytime a 
play-shed outside may be " too dark to see in " with two 
or three times that amount of light. Confusing shadows 
may interfere with the work. A room lighted about 
equally from right and left throws annoying shadows 
from the pen-point. On the other hand, want of shadow 
may be a trouble; any fine work with textures becomes 
difficult with indirect lighting, which is nearly shadowless. 
Glare may be the cause of difficulties. Primary glare 
from too bright light producing actual pathological 
change, as, for instance, from looking directly at a solar 
eclipse, is fortunately rare, but secondary glare, producing 
annoyance, from surfaces of comparatively low intensity, 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 161 

surfaces of paper, walls or desks, the setting sun, or 
from beams of nearly horizontal light from ribbed or 
badly set prism glass, is due to the retina being adapted 
for an intensity of light representing a general average, 
whereas these small glare spots are of much higher in- 
tensity. There are other contributing causes of glare, 
but the importance of the whole subject is as yet 
hardly appreciated. Glare from the surface of steam- 
pressed paper, which should never be used in schools, 
is of the nature of regular specular reflection, and is 
therefore worst when facing a window or source of 
light. It is measured by the ratio of regularly reflected 
light to that irregularly diffused, and is considerably 
diminished in indirect or diffused lighting, or by bringing 
the paper nearer the source of light, when the glaring 
rays remain of a constant brightness, whilst the bright- 
ness of the ordinary non-glaring light increases. 

For the teachers' use, blackboards with white and 
coloured chalks are the most convenient. The colours 
of the chalk should be selected for visibility, some blues 
and yellows being poorly seen against the board or in 
artificial light. With a large blackboard and white chalk 
there is perhaps better recognition of the letters than there 
would be with black letters on white. The pupil of the 
eye is probably wider, and in a short time the eye more 
sensitive, so that the white chalk has real advantages. 

Irradiation has also a part in making the white letters 
appear larger and clearer. In artificial lighting there 
should be an average of 60 per cent, more light on the 
blackboard than on the desks. 

Where children are drawing at desks with chalk, wooden 
blackened boards are the best, but blackened cardboard is 
frequently used on account of cheapness. In rubbing out, 
it is best to use very small dusters or solid rubbers, to 
avoid scattering dust. 

11 



162 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Type of Books. With English type the only troubles 
likely to arise are from fine type, from the lines being too 
long, and insufficiently leaded, and from the paper being 
finished with a glossy surface. The type should be clear 
and large, and the construction of such letters as h and b, 
v and n should be especially precise. 

The following words represent well-known sizes of type : 

Double Pica. Great Primer. Pica. 

No type smaller than Pica should 

Small Pica. Bourgeois. Minion. Pearl. Brilliant. 

be USed While teaching children ~d 

The British Association Committee have published a 
very satisfactory report on the sizes of type, which, how- 
ever, rather over-elaborates the needs of the situation as 
regards schoolbooks. 

Type is measured in English or American measure by 
points, of which 72 go to an inch. This determines the 
body of the type, which is much larger than a small letter 
such as m, as provision has to be made on it for 
either up or down strokes of the long letters. The face 
of the letters on the type, on which the size of the printed 
letter depends, is not necessarily fixed by settling on type 
of so many points. Clean-cut, well defined type, without 
fine hair-strokes, should be used ; condensed or com- 
pressed type is to be avoided, breadth being more important 
than height ; too heavy thick strokes, again, would diminish 
visibility. 

In any specification to fix the sizes of print in books 
the simplest items can be got by taking a limiting height 
for the small letter ; the width for such a letter as n should 
be equal to the height. There ought to be a clear inter- 
space between the lines of double the height. The 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 163 

minima for school use could be conveniently stated as, 
for infants up to seven years old, 24-point type, the 
minimum height of the small letter, 2*8 millimetres ; for 
children reading by words, and aged seven to nine, 14-point 
type, with letters of at least 2-25 millimetres height ; with 
older children reading fluently, 11-point type, the letters 
not less than 1'5 millimetres high, will secure safe results 
for vision. The length of line should never exceed 4 
inches. The recommendation, known as Cohn's test, that 
through a square ihole of 1 centimetre side cut in a 
card, not more than two lines should be visible when it 
is laid on the print, is a safe limit for schoolbooks. This 
has been amplified by Russian regulations, that under 
this test not more than fifteen letters should be visible at 
once in the square centimetre space. 

Illustrations should be simplified for the youngest 
children ; without great detail and in outline portraying 
action without overlapping figures. Small scattered 
marginal pictures are not useful ; even for the older 
children line drawings are preferable, and only for natural 
scenery should half-tone blocks be used. Insets on highly 
glazed paper, if needed, must be sewn in, not pasted. 
Letterpress in coloured letters is to be condemned. The 
spacing between the words is not a serious matter ; if 
crowded, learners make more mistakes in reading ; whilst 
with widely leaded lines they make mistakes in beginning 
the correct line. 

Gothic type, the German type, is always to be con- 
demned. Its abolition in Sweden has been followed by 
the happiest results in a great decrease in school myopia. 
For daily life it should be abolished everywhere. 

Practically all books are printed on white or yellow 
toned papers, giving good contrast. Tinted papers with 
neutral tints spoiling the contrast are bad. Writing ink 
is often very bad. When supplied in powder form the 



164 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

mixing is sometimes done badly at school. Fluid ink 
should be supplied to schools, and it should never be 
watered. Pale ink, or ink which turns black after a time, 
should be abolished from school. 

It is important that neither writing nor reading should 
be permitted in the dim light of evening. 

The letters on many maps in schools are most trying 
to the eyes, the lettering not only being fine, but the 
maps having often been printed from old and worn plates. 
Maps should contain as few data as possible, teaching by 
wall-maps and outline-maps being preferable. 

Desks and Seats. Desks and seats are described in 
Chapter VII, p. 328. The most carefully adapted single 
seats and desks will, however, have their potential value 
diminished when used by a class that has already learned 
the near working habit. 

Habit Spasm of Eyes. In many cases where a fine 
muscle is habitually overtaxed a condition of nervous 
irritability and want of control is set up in the nerve 
centres, resulting in what are termed " functional 
paralyses" or "habit spasms," from the mixture of 
spasmodic action and almost paralytic weakness displayed. 
Telegraphist's cramp, pianoforte player's cramp, writer's 
cramp are well-known examples of such occupation 
diseases. The occupation disease of the scholar may be 
said to be spasm of the eye accommodation. The eyes 
habitually used at too close a distance at last have the 
nervous mechanism of the ciliary muscle thrown into 
such a state of irritability that on attempting to fix the 
gaze on a distant object the habitual contraction of the 
ciliary muscle comes into play and the eye is accom- 
modated to its usual near use. Although the eye may 
be quite normal as regards its dimensions, yet from the 
long sustained near work, and the accommodation having 
got adapted to this, it cannot be relaxed sufficiently for 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 165 

distant vision, so that the scholar sees distant objects 
badly and appears to be shortsighted, seeing near things 
well. Associated with this condition there is often some 
congestion and irritability of the eye set up which draws 
attention to it, and the fact of distant vision being bad 
often accentuates the child's complaints. 

Temporary suffering from this condition is common, 
especially in finely textured children of the nervous type, 
and most often in girls over eleven years of age. Such 
children are sometimes taken to sight-testing establish- 
ments presided over by the " certificated optician," who 
generally in such cases prescribes weak concave glasses. 
These improve the distant vision for a time, but ultimately 
aggravate the condition, until in bad cases work continued 
for more than a few minutes may be impossible. From 
such cases also permanent shortsightedness often develops. 

Tests of Yision. For testing children's vision a series 
of graduated letters on a test card is used. In the cards 
in general use (Snellen's Test Types) the top letter should 
be read at 60 metres (it is marked, in small outlined letters, 
D = 60). The second row, 36 metres ; third, 24 ; fourth, 
18 ; fifth, 12 ; sixth, 9 ; and seventh, 6. The child to be 
tested stands 20 feet ( = 6 metres) in front of the card, 
which is hung in a good light. He ought to be able to 
read all the letters correctly with either eye, such a result 
being recorded as V = | the numerator expressing the 
distance in metres at which the child stands, and the 
denominator the distance at which the smallest letter 
distinguished ought to be read. If with the right eye 
the child had only read the first three lines, it would have 
been recorded E. V = ^_. Any fraction less than unity 
denoting defective visual acuity. 

In testing a long series of children it is found that 
girls present a greater percentage with defect than boys, 
and younger children than older children up to the age 



166 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

of eleven, when the conditions are reversed. It is found 
that country children attain their maximum visual acuity, 
as a rule, much sooner than town children. On the other 
hand, if all the children in a certain standard only be 
taken, the younger the child in its standard the greater 
its visual acuity as a rule. 

Statistics of Eyesight of School Children. So far 
vision in ordinary school children only has been dealt 
with, and the strain which improperly applied tasks throw 
on them has been pointed out. It seems almost strange 
that in spite of all these imposed strains the majority 
come through school-life with their vision not a bit the 
worse, save that possibly their finer visual judgments as 
regards distance and distant objects have been allowed 
to remain undeveloped. There remain a considerable 
proportion who from some inherent weakness, whether 
nutritional, structural, or nervous, are unable to pass 
the strain of continual eye work unscathed, or who have 
suffered by the scars and marks of disease. What these 
numbers are it is difficult to say; but taking the best 
group, boys between the age of ten and twelve, it may 
be taken that 10 per cent, fall short of normal vision. 
Other groups exceed this, so that Mr. Brudenell Carter 
some years ago, from examination of several thousand 
London children, stated that at least two-thirds of the 
eyes tested fell short of normal. 

There is reason to suppose that the personal equation 
of the child obtruded itself in these statistics, and that 
the group was largely made up of young children. 
Statistics regarding school children in the mass, whether 
applied to vision or any other personal condition, are 
worth little for comparison unless arranged in groups 
according to age and sex. 

In the Bradford Board Schools, 39,118 children were 
examined as to their acuteness of vision, by means of 
test cards containing standard letters, each scholar filling 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 



167 



in on a piece of paper all the letters on the card which 
he could distinguish clearly. The results are shown 
in Fig. 21. As the number of children in each standard 
varied from 503 in the Ex. VII and 2,194 in the first to 
7,553 in the third standard, the basis of facts on which 
the percentages of defective vision are framed is sufficiently 
large to be trustworthy : 



fcfl 



3fl 



H Jg BT V VI W &V!L 



FIG. 21. Percentage in each standard with defective visual acuity. 
39,118 children in standards. (Bradford School Board.) 



In another set of observations in which 7,755 girls and 
7,787 boys were examined, and classified according to age, 
the results shown in Fig. 22 were obtained: 



7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 



40 



30 



20 



\ 








7' 

7' 


735 

7*7- 


ilRU 

BOYS 


m 


\ 


\ 














\ 


















\ 


V. 














s 


s 




"\ 












^ 


s 




Y_ 
















-^. 


-^* 


" 



FIG. 22. Percentage with defective visual acuity at various ages. 



168 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Later and more detailed examinations have shown that 
in the elementary schools of English towns 

(1) The percentage with normal vision increases 
at every year of age and standard, till in the highest 
classes it is over 80 per cent. 

(2) About 10 per cent, have vision as bad as 
V.A. = ^g. This remains constant through school-life. 
The greater part of the defective vision is due to 
slight defect which gives fair but imperfect vision, 
due probably to both ocular and mental conditions, 
and of the greatest importance educationally in the 
first half of school life. Very bad visual acuity 
(V.A. = - s or worse), due to accident or disease and 
probably also to spasm and myopia, is met in a small 
proportion, increasing from about 1'5 in Standard I 
to about 3 '5 in Standard VII. 

Treatment of Sore Eyes. Defective children in regard 
to vision comprise a considerable number who have 
suffered damage from inflammation of the cornea. Many 
children of low resisting power are prone to slight 
inflammatory attacks ; the children who from any cause 
strain the eye are more liable than others, the eyes feel 
burning and hot at times, there is a little "matter" in the 
corner, they may be bloodshot in the mornings, or the 
lids may be stuck together on waking by dried exudation ; 
and the little crusts which this forms at the roots of the 
eyelashes cause irritation, and chronically inflamed 
thickened edges ultimately develop on the lids, an in- 
flammatory condition called blepharitis. It is chiefly seen 
in unhealthy children, who require much fresh air and 
cod-liver oil, but also in healthy children, who being longer- 
sighted than usual have the eyes irritated and congested 
by constant strain. 

For these chronic conditions, and for almost all slight 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 169 

inflammatory conditions about the eyes, a useful treatment 
is to bathe the eyes well with a lotion composed of as 
much powdered boracic acid as will lie on a penny, dis- 
solved in a pint of tepid water ; and at bedtime the lower 
lid should be pulled down and a piece of ointment the 
size of a split pea laid on its inner surface to dissolve 
during the night. 

On the advice cards formerly given for vision in schools 
under the School Board for London there was the 
following : 

"You are cautioned against the grave risks children 
may incur by wearing glasses as prescribed by the various 
sight-testing establishments, certified opticians, chemists, 
toyshops, or any other than qualified medical men. 

" In most cases of pustular eye inflammation, irritable 
or sore eyelids in delicate children, a piece of the following 
ointment, the size of a lentil, in each eye at bedtime will 
be found of benefit. Any chemist will supply it, of the 
following composition : Powdered yellow oxide of mercury, 
3 grains; lanolin, 2 drams ; vaseline to half an ounce." 

The above treatment may only give temporary relief if 
there is eye strain, and the use of proper glasses may be 
necessary if permanent relief is to be obtained. 

Formerly much bad eyesight was due to the results of 
small-pox. The practice of vaccination has materially 
diminished this, and now serious eye defects are chiefly 
due to disease in the new-born infant, from want of proper 
supervision during the first week of life, or later in life 
from haziness of the cornea caused by inherited constitu- 
tional disease. Mere colds and catarrhs, especially in 
ill-nourished children who are mouth-breathers, may cause 
opacities of the cornea, which are very slowly recovered 
from, and which for months or even a year or two may 
materially diminish the visual acuity. Small pustules from 
catarrh occur on the corneal margin, and are often very 



170 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

tedious in delicate children. They may cause dread of 
light, in which case the child should not be attending 
school. 

Contagious eye diseases are more particularly seen in 
the unexercised low-resisting tissues of institution-reared 
children. They are rare in ordinary elementary schools. 
Barely an acute inflammation of the eyes may occur in 
which the eyes are red and watery, the lids then swell 
and matter for several days, and after this slowly recover. 
The disease is contagious among the younger children, 
and sometimes spreads through the household from which 
the child comes. 

A large number of children suffer from poor vision 
owing to defects in the structural dimensions of the eye. 
Such defects are called errors of refraction. 

Errors of Refraction. The eye has been described as 
developing from a flattened mass of tissue, which, growing 
at unequal rates, results in its globular form. This should 
be such that when the full-grown eye is at rest parallel 
rays coming from distant objects are focused on the 
retina. Under certain circumstances, which may be the 
result of differing conditions, as temporary illness, or 
overuse at different times, or many other conditions affect- 
ing nutrition and growth, the development of the eye in 
one direction or another may be modified. 

Longsightedness or Hypermetropia. The develop- 
ment of the eye may tend to be arrested or hindered. 
People in whom the structures of the head seem to develop 
unevenly, who, for instance, have long faces and narrow, 
highly arched palates, frequently have squint, commonly a 
result of hypermetropia. Their eyes have remained in the 
infantile condition, with their optical axes relatively short, 
i.e. the eye is shorter from behind forward than usual. 

Such longsighted people, like the normally somewhat 
hypermetropic child, can only see distant objects by 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 171 

exerting accommodation. When not accommodating, 
distant rays of light (R, Fig. 23) are brought to a focus at 
F behind the retina, and a convex lens L is needed to 
ensure clear vision. The young child with longsightedness 
has great power of accommodation for distant objects ; but 
in older people this diminishes, and convex glasses have 
to be worn, especially for near work. Even in children, if 
the hypermetropia is so great that there is any difficulty in 
seeing well, or any suffering from congestive troubles about 
the eyes, or red margined lids, the question of wearing 
glasses either constantly or for near work is worth con- 




FIG. 23. Section of hypermetropic eye. 

B, the origin of divergent rays of light ; F, the focus beyond the 
eyeball ; L L, convex glasses to be worn by hypermetrope ; F', the 
focus of rays of light on retina, showing influence of L. 



sideration. If there is any doubt as to whether convex 
glasses should be worn it is best to wear them, especially 
for near work. 

Shortsightedness or Myopia. In other cases either 
from debility or lack of resisting power in the tissues, 
after illness, in children of fine texture, and, as a rule, in 
people with broad heads, there is a tendency to over- 
development and stretching of ;the globe. The axis of the 
eye becomes relatively too long. This development is 
normal up to about the fifteenth, but is often continued 
till the twentieth or twenty-fifth year, after which elon- 
gation of the optic axis may be regarded as disease. 



172 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



This physiological lengthening of the axis may be 
exaggerated by continued work with objects held near the 
eyes. The constant tension and sometimes spasm of the 
ciliary muscle tend to pull the front parts of the choroid 
and retina forwards ; the pressure of the external muscles 
strongly converging and pressing on the globes tends to 
squeeze the comparatively unsupported posterior wall 
backwards ; while at the same time the usual bent attitude 
of the head tends to general congestion and softness of the 
structures, so that in many cases such work produces a 
certain degree of stretching of the globe, with lengthening 




FIG. 24. Section of myopic eye. 

R, the origin of divergent rays of light ; F, the focus of these in 
front of retina; LL, concave lens to be worn by myope; F', focus 
of rays of light on retina, showing influence of L. 



of the optic axis. Consequently, rays tend to be focused 
in front of the retina, and unless an object is brought 
within a certain distance of the eye it cannot be seen well. 
Many such cases in children are unreal, due only to spasm, 
and a warning about the dangers of oculists' and opticians' 
prescriptions for such cases has already been given. When 
there is actual lengthening of the optic axis the condition 
is called myopia. 

Myopia exists in another form which is due either to 
disease or congenital weakness of the eye. This steadily 
gets worse till in middle life, from the retina becoming 
detached or haemorrhage occurring, blindness may result. 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 173 

This malignant myopia, common in Germany, is decidedly 
uncommon in England. These cases of " High Myopia " 
occur in quite young children, and progress rapidly during 
school life. Such children should not be permitted to do 
any fine eye work, and it is doubtful whether they should 
learn to read and write in the ordinary way. 

Myopia is relieved by concave glasses, which render the 
parallel rays from distant objects so divergent that they 
appear as if coming from the farthest point at which the 
eye can see things clearly (Fig. 24). If there is any doubt 
about wearing concave glasses it is better to do without, 
and they should never be worn except after medical 
prescription. 

The majority of children called shortsighted at school 
are not myopic. They may be hypermetropic or more 
probably belong to a large class who are astigmatic. 

Astigmatism. In astigmatism the growth of the eye 
has been so irregular that if a vertical equatorial section 
were made, it would not be circular, but elliptical. The 
long axis of the ellipse is usually horizontal, but it may be 
at any angle with the vertical. Such condition of irregular 
growth is known as astigmatism. According to the relation 
of length of the axis of the eye to the axis of this elliptical 
section the eye may for rays in different planes be hyper- 
metropic, emmetropic, or myopic, i.e. longsighted, normal 
or nearsighted, or any two of these conditions may be 
combined. Such people cannot see a point clearly ; it 
appears as a hazy or starred blur, drawn out in one 
direction. All eyes present this condition in a slight degree 
if submitted to a sufficiently fine test. To this cause the 
points of light in the heavens owe their name of stars. 

In cases where the astigmatism is not very great, or 
when there is not much hypermetropia or myopia with it, 
a certain amount of correction is possible by the lens being 
strained by just a few fibres of the ciliary muscle contract- 



174 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

ing in one direction, and no evil effects are felt. In other 
cases, from constant or near work, this accommodative 
strain may set up severe nerve symptoms, pain, inability to 
use the eyes, headaches or neuralgia, which may be con- 
stant or more commonly intermitting but frequent. 

Astigmatism requires correction in most cases. No 
optician or spectacle vendor, certificated or otherwise, 
should be allowed to prescribe the cylindrical glasses 
generally required for its correction, especially in the case 
of children. Symptoms are often only partially relieved, 
sometimes much aggravated, by their prescriptions, and 
the desirability of wearing them and the strength required 
is entirely a question for the medical man. 

Spectacles. No child presenting any visual defect is 
satisfactorily examined until it has been carefully measured 
with the pupils widely dilated by a mydriatic substance. 
Atropine drops or ointment is generally used for the 
purpose, and without this method the glasses provided by 
opticians or spectacle dealers, whether certificated or not, 
cannot be guaranteed as suitable for the children wearing 
them. It is commonly supposed that every child with 
defective visual acuity needs glasses, but there can be no 
greater mistake; some get no help from them, some do 
better without, and a very small number are found with 
defective acuity and no refractive error who in the course 
of a year or so attain normal vision. The abolition of 
glare in schoolwork is possibly more important than 
wholesale provision of glasses. A few children are damaged 
by glasses given them and with which they at first see 
better or clearer. It ought not to be necessary for a con- 
siderable percentage of young children to wear glasses. 
Even where adopted, certain considerations are of practical 
weight ; thus the elasticity of the lens being unimpaired 
and accommodative power great, single spheres will 
generally improve vision so much and relieve strain so 



EYESIGHT IN SCHOOL LIFE 175 

that nothing more is wanted. The correction of a diopter 
of astigmatism in children under ten is hardly ever called 
for ; the prescription of bifocal glasses for children is a pure 
absurdity, and except in the rarest cases of highly neurotic 
children who happen also to be astigmatic, ocular headaches 
may almost be left out of account. 

The school hygiene of vision may be concluded and 
summed up in the following extract taken from the instruc- 
tions of one of the largest school authorities to its 
teachers : 

"It is exceedingly important that children should, as 
far as is possible, be prevented from acquiring the bad 
habit of working with a short distance from eye to work. 
In no case should any child be permitted to occupy itself 
with work nearer to the eye than a foot distance. 

" In infants' departments, in girls' when sewing, in 
boys' when writing, or doing fine work or painting, they 
often bring their eyes down closely to their work, ensuring 
cramped chests, round backs, and much eye strain. During 
such work teachers should pay especial attention to prevent 
these habits, and endeavour to secure observance of a 
proper working distance." 



CHAPTEE XV 

PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

ALTHOUGH the term physical training is commonly used 
as if it were synonymous with muscular training, it is in 
fact more comprehensive. It embraces the physiological 
functions of the body and the recreative part of life. 
Hence it is concerned with sedentary games, the reading 
of light literature, the encouragement of pleasant conver- 
sation, etc., as well as with outdoor games and gymnastics. 
It is concerned with the training of each child in regular 
habits as regards eating, drinking, sleeping, and the 
functions of the excretory organs, and with every means 
by which the child's health may be brought up to a high 
standard and maintained at this standard throughout 
school-life. These objects ought to be as much the 
teacher's object as the instillation of definite knowledge ; 
and the teacher ought to be in a position to send his 
pupil forth from the school with as good health as he 
possessed on entering it. 

The muscles represent rather more than half the whole 
weight of the body ; they contain in their substance about 
one-fourth of the whole volume of blood ; and they have 
an active influence on the circulation of the blood, on 
respiration and on nutrition, besides being the chief pro- 
ducers of heat in the body. Most muscles of the body, 
being controlled by the will of the individual, are in direct 
communication with the nervous system, the nervous and 

176 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 



177 



muscular systems being both influenced by muscular 
activity. Thus muscular exercise is important during 
school-life because of its influence (1) on the general health , 
and (2) on the brain. 

1. Influence of Muscular Exercise on the General 
Health. The muscles themselves can only be made and 
kept firm, large, and strong by regular exercise. Muscular 
work is the chief source of heat in the body ; the circulation 
of blood is improved and rendered more uniform, and 
consequently cold feet and chilblains are avoided. The 
lungs work more actively during muscular exercise, so as 
to supply the increased amount of oxygen required. Thus 
the respiratory capacity is increased, the tendency to a flat- 
chested condition is averted, and the liability to chest 
ailments is greatly diminished. The improved nutrition is 
shown by the better appetite and the improved digestion 
which are caused by exercise. Indigestion and allied 
troubles chiefly occur in persons of sedentary occupation. 

The following tables from Maclaren's Physical Education 
show some measurable effects of systematic gymnastic 
exercises. The first table shows the effect of seven and a 
half months' training of men varying in age from nineteen 
to twenty-eight, the average age being twenty-four, and the 
men having been irregularly selected: 





Weight. 


Chest 
girth. 


Girth of 
fore-arm. 


Girth of 
upper-arm. 




Ib. 


in. 


in. 


in. 


The smallest gain . 


5 


1 


i 


1 


The largest gain . 


16 


5 


1J 


If 


The average gain . 


10 


2$ 


1 


If 



The second table shows the effect on two articled pupils, 
aged sixteen and twenty, of a year's steady practice in 
gymnastic exercises. 

12 



178 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

In the year's work the increase was 





Height. 


Weight. 


Chest. 


Fore-arm. 


Upper-arm. 




in. 


Ib. 


in. 


in. 


in. 


With the younger 


2 


21 


5 


2 


2 


With the elder . 


1 


8* 


6 


li 


4 



2. Influence of Muscular Exercise on the Brain. 

During the period of school-life the brain and muscles are 
both undergoing growth and development. They cannot 
be separated from one another, being intimately in com- 
munication by means of nerves. The musculature of the 
body is doubly represented in the brain ; on the surface of 
the motor convolutions there are centres corresponding to 
the several muscles of the body, and here issue all voluntary 
impulses resulting in muscular exercise ; these impulses are, 
however, under the control of certain sensory convolutions 
wherein are stored the memories of sensations derived from 
past muscular contractions giving ideas of weight, distance, 
and resistance. These extensive regions of the brain are in 
intimate communication with all the other regions of the 
brain, and at the same time it can attain its full vigour only 
when the whole muscular system is in a well-developed 
and healthy condition. It is a well-known fact that each 
nervous centre requires external stimuli to develop its 
potential power. If a number of chickens are hatched on 
a carpet they will run about without attempting to scratch 
until a little gravel is scattered upon it. The congenital 
absence of the left hand and atrophy of the left arm have 
been found after death to be associated with an imperfectly 
developed condition of the convolution of the brain in 
which movements of the hand originate. But where death 
has occurred some years after amputation of the limb of 
an adult no obvious alteration in the corresponding part 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 179 

of the brain has been found. Hence the greater importance 
of exercise before twenty than after that age. 

The above considerations render it evident that the 
development of a considerable portion of the brain is 
dependent on muscular exercise, and the non-recognition of 
this principle has been saved from calamitous results in the 
past only by the instinctive revelling of children in move- 
ments of every kind. 

The preceding general considerations show the importance 
of physical education. Education, as we have seen, has 
a much wider meaning than the mere acquiring of a given 
amount of information. The bodily and mental functions 
are closely interdependent, and the harmonious working of 
the two can only be secured by training which is devoted 
to the muscular system arid the special senses, as well as to 
the intellectual powers. This principle is now recognized 
in the Code of Instruction for Elementary Schools, which 
recognizes as part of the school curriculum, and allows a 
portion of the school time to be apportioned to instruc- 
tion in 

Manual Instruction ; 
Suitable Physical Exercises, e.g. Swimming, 

Gymnastics, Swedish Drill ; 

Military Drill, Cottage Gardening (for boys); 

Practical Cookery, Laundry Work, Dairy Work, 

Practical Housewifery (for girls). 

Some scheme of physical exercises is therefore now 
required as a regular part of schoolwork, although with 
healthy organization of child life this should be quite 
unnecessary. At its best such a scheme can only be 
regarded as a necessary evil due to the artificial life which 
follows highly urbanized conditions, involving hours of 
daily desk work, and restrictions on play and movement, 
an evil rising from want of space in towns, which in this 



180 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

respect is harmful. This holds not only for England but 
or many parts of Greater Britain as well. 

Only the broadest principles of exercises can be now 
discussed . Any system must have a framework of uniform 
words of command and the exercises resulting from them ; 
this part of the scheme ought to be reduced to a minimum. 
The extraordinary detail given of many so-called errors in 
performance, and the meticulous care asked for in children's 
work is absurd when the value is considered in respect of 
child welfare. 

The main purposes of exercise are firstly the promotion 
of nutrition ; secondly, and more remotely, the development 
of neuromuscular co-ordinations ; and lastly, the correc- 
tion of defects. 

In all its functions the body should work well within its 
capabilities, with a considerable reserve which can be called 
upon. While living in a natural state of savagery or wild- 
ness, reserves were probably developed, and life went on at 
a level which maintained the reserve, to be called upon now 
and then, as in hunting, fighting, and so on. Nowadays 
these reserves are scarcely ever called forth, and but rarely 
properly developed. The young child seldom has the 
abundant rough-and-tumbling play which nature requires 
to bring out its qualities. A team of football boys were 
each made to run at top speed up and down stairs. Their 
pulse-rate was taken for some time before and after, and 
then watched till it became normal; this averaged about 
three minutes. A number of girl students training as 
pupil teachers were made to do the same work ; many did 
not recover their original rate for over half an hour. In 
the one case some reserve capacity had been developed, 
in the other it did not exist. So one might take breathing, 
running, or other bodily functions, and trace out reserve 
powers or their want. 

The promotion of nutrition means keeping the tissue 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 181 

cells in full functional vigour, and not only a few but all 
the cells. It is no use having excellent muscle fibres if 
the phagocyte cells of the blood and tissues, which deal 
with the dangers of bacterial poisons or the germs them- 
selves, are already overloaded or weakened by an excess 
of waste products such as fatigue toxins. Overwork, indeed, 
is one of the predisposing factors to loss of immunity ; it is 
the chronically overworked artisan who most easily falls a 
victim to tuberculosis, and even the athlete in full training 
is in a dangerous condition in this respect ; all his reserves 
have been sacrificed to muscular performance, he can 
scarcely resist the ordinary cocci of the skin and becomes 
very liable to boils ; should he get pneumonia he is likely 
to die. The man who will probably live long and do good 
work is the man with a sound heart and good, big, healthy 
lungs. 

Lymph Movement. The nutrition of the body cells 
depends on heart and lungs, but they act secondarily 
through accessory factors nearly as important as the heart 
and lungs themselves. Nutrition requires an abundance 
of utilizable food material, including oxygen, being brought 
to the cells, in the serum of the blood. A particular 
mechanism exists in the haemoglobin of the red corpuscles, 
which acts as a carrier of gases far beyond the capacity 
of the serum, taking oxygen to the tissues and removing 
the product, carbon dioxide. The part of the blood which 
passes out of the capillary vessels comes in actual contact 
with the cells, takes up waste materials, and as the lymph 
of^the tissues aids removal of this waste. The due and 
brisk movement of this lymph is about as necessary for 
good nutrition as the movement of the blood itself. It 
is this drainage movement of the lymph which is the chief 
purpose of physical exercise as an aid to nutrition. The 
benefits of increased respiration and circulation to be 
obtained from exercise largely depend on their action in 



182 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

promoting lymph movement. Other equally important 
contributories, which will be dealt with in connection with 
ventilation, are heat removal and evaporation from the 
surface of the skin. 

The lymph is collected in an enormous network of fine 
transparent vessels, the lymphatics ; these are abundantly 
supplied with valves, only permitting the contents to pass 
centripetally. These vessels carry their contents to the 
lymphatic glands, where active digestion and destruction 
of toxic matters takes place, after which the fluid is 
carried on, to be poured into the great veins at the root 
of the neck. 

Owing to the structure of these lymphatic vessels, every 
movement of the body, active or passive, results in the 
forward flow of their contents, promoting lymph circulation 
and removal of waste products from the tissues. Without 
a full appreciation of these facts the nutritive action of 
active or passive exercises, and the importance of their 
extension over wide areas of the tissues, will not be 
appreciated. The omission of reference to lymph move- 
ment in the theoretical introduction to the official Syllabus 
of the Board of Education probably accounts for the failure 
of the " two-minute " exercises to gain wider use. 

The nutritive effects of massive simple and rapid move- 
ments, which are described as recreative exercises, are 
greatly dependent on the massaging effect of the movement 
of great muscular masses, which also, without much tax 
on the nervous system, provide sufficient of the chemical 
products of fatigue from the working of the muscles them- 
selves to stimulate the nervous centres for circulation and 
respiration. These functions by their effects in powerful 
movements of the diaphragm and other respiratory muscles, 
as well as rapid pressure changes in the chest, produce a 
movement of lymph which sweeps out the accumulation of 
waste products locally without any great expenditure of 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 183 

nervous energy, thus not only stimulating nutrition but 
also relatively relieving fatigue. These exercises to do 
good must be repeated many times a day, certainly for not 
less than half a dozen times, and for not more than two to 
three minutes at a time. The whole purpose is by large 
movements, rapidly and easily done, to get a flushed face, 
a quickened pulse, and rapid respiration. The best way of 
doing this is by rapid running, jumping, or dancing. The 
younger the children the more important is it to have 
frequent two-minute exercises. 

Cool, moving air stimulates and refreshes ; it is an addi- 
tional help, but as yet often a luxury, and the opening of 
windows, whilst to be recommended, should never stand in 
the way of frequent short, sharp, but large and massive 
exercises. It must be insisted that if school air is not good 
enough for two-minute exercises it should be condemned. 

The practice of deep breathing exercises as followed in 
schools is a comparatively useless proceeding, except in so 
far as it develops muscles which may be useful to the 
singer, and also, by vigorous action of the diaphragm as a 
pump, promotes lymph flow. Indeed, there is a natural 
stop action to deep breathing provided, in that a certain 
amount of carbon dioxide is necessary in the blood to set 
the nervous mechanism of breathing going ; if this amount 
fails, breathing stops till it reaccumulates. The holding of 
the breath by young children whilst one, two, three is 
counted, at the end of an inspiration, is rather harmful. In 
the case of some enthusiastic teachers, deep breathing work 
has resulted in acute emphysema, and recovery has required 
prolonged absence from work. The chief use of deep 
breathing in school is to see that there is no nasal obstruc- 
tion. The effect in disseminating colds or catarrhs should 
be remembered. All breathing exercises should be done 
with the mouth closed; but in infants, if there is nasal 
obstruction, this may tend to actual deformity of the chest 



184 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

walls, the lower portions being pressed inwards, and then 
treatment is necessary if the opened mouth is to be avoided. 
The idea that adenoids or enlarged tonsils commonly hinder 
the proper aeration of the blood is, however, not based on 
any facts. 

It may be summed up that for nutrition the respiratory 
and circulatory movements which are physiologically of 
most importance are those automatically developed by the 
action of large muscular masses in a short space of time. 
The proper way to develop both respiration and circulation 
is to provide time and space for frequent periods of play for 
young children with short, violent bursts of effort. This 
variety of exercise is of greater importance than any formal 
systems taken in lessons. 

Educational Effects of Physical Training. The cyclist 
in learning is bruised and stiff with the enormous efforts he 
puts forth, but the accomplished rider goes all day without 
much trouble. It is possible to isolate or focus muscular 
movements so that the maximum result is got from the 
minimum effort ; this is obtained by training. By these 
focused movements special exercises can be devised to 
remedy conditions chiefly of growth and debility, or habits 
of posture and fatigue, due to the want of healthy child- 
hood, absence of handy and convenient playgrounds, 
deprivation of fresh air, and insufficiency of good food. 
Flat-foot, lordosis, and other postural defects can also be 
treated in mild cases by exercises directed to the weakened 
muscles. 

Beyond teaching the drill sufficient to get quick and 
regular movements in masses of children, to fill or empty 
classrooms, dismiss school, and so forth, complicated 
systems of physical exercises, such as the long official 
Syllabus, ought not to be necessary in the elementary 
schools. As taught at present, whilst some little good is 
done, the lessons usually appear boring to both children 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 185 

and teachers. Something better must be sought, which, 
while interesting, is likely to be kept up easily after school 
days, under town conditions. Dancing and skipping seem 
most probable forms of good, interesting exercises suitable 
also for nutritional purposes. 

Singing should be specially mentioned ; regarded as an 
exercise it is a wholly artificial performance, and requires 
special training and deep breathing to develop the manage- 
ment of the respiration. The control of the respiratory 
muscles has to be got in a way which has little relation to 
physiological needs. Apart from singing, these exercises 
are not wanted by most children, and singing, indeed, ought 
to be rather a spontaneous and imitative exercise than the 
result of formal training. 

Considerable rest periods are as necessary as exercise 
for nutrition. This has to be remembered, especially in 
residential schools. 

Ignorance of the needs of childhood is still extensive, 
and the following extract from a published report on a sub- 
urban school well expresses and sums the conditions found : 
" The children are of a respectable class. They are well 
fed and clothed, but are altogether a flabby and pappy lot. 
Almost all have palpable glands in the neck. The head 
teacher returned over a hundred as defective ; this seemed 
absurd until the children were examined, then the oft- 
repeated note of ' delicate ' is justified. The children are 
too respectable to play in the street ; their back gardens or 
house rooms are small, so they do not compare favourably, 
save in cleanliness, with children in poorer quarters who 
play freely in the open air. The teaching of hygiene is 
needed in the district." 

Exemption from Exercise. All children should be 
given the school exercises in use, unless there are distinct 
centra-indications. Many ill-nourished and debilitated 
children in school cannot go through the lesson without 



186 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

weariness, actual physical suffering, or even faintness. 
Any child becoming pale in the face, especially if with a 
drawn look about the mouth, should be put to one side at 
once, and only gently exercised for some weeks ; indeed, 
a child giving rise to anxiety is probably better doing 
other work. 

A child convalescent after zymotic disease, like measles, 
diphtheria, or influenza, and all children suspected of 
tubercle, must exercise cautiously. Children with recent 
rheumatism, growing pains, chorea, or even marked 
anaemia, must be specially watched; they have often 
irritable or weak hearts liable to dilatation, if not more 
serious disease, and should only do the lightest exercises, 
avoiding stoopings or body bendings. Any child showing 
marked shortness of breath, which occurs readily or per- 
sists, is at least doubtful in regard to the heart, and should 
be kept back. The majority of chronic heart cases do well 
with light exercises, but care and observation are needed 
until the doctor gives his verdict. Certain other less 
common conditions like asthma, migraine, or tendency to 
nose-bleeding, should be excused. Girls about puberty who 
show fine tremor of the extended hands and fingers, rapid 
pulse, and some fullness about the neck require excusing for 
a time ; they are easily exhausted and often suffer from 
headache or have emotional attacks after much exercise. 
If in the slightest doubt about a case it is well to have 
medical advice. 

Spinal Curvature. Certain deformities occur from 
weakness or debility of muscles or tissues, yielding either 
through fatigue or as the result of mere weight. If strictly 
looked for, they can be found in some form or other in about 
half of the elementary school children. 

Many of these deformities, like shortsightedness, appear 
to increase in frequency and degree with school-life, but 
school is not a primary cause, although in cases so disposed 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 187 

it may be a contributory factor. Aggravation of symptoms 
occurs under certain conditions which appear to predispose 
to fatigue or debility. This is most evident during rapid 
growth in height. Often arrest in growth during illness is 
made up in convalescence, a time also for aggravation of 
the deformities of weakness, like myopia, spinal curva- 
ture, or flat-footedness to show up. Other factors tending 
to debility, such as insufficient exercise, long hours in 
school desks, or overheated rooms may be mentioned. In 
young children rickets is a great source of deformities. 

Spinal curvature is the commonest ; it is sometimes 
spoken of as a school disease. Most cases are slight, many 
are attributed to right-handedness, to carrying weights, 
satchels, or books, under the arm, or even to having been 
always carried on the nurse's left arm in infancy. Most 
are developmental irregularities which improve later. 
There are antero-posterior curves. Exaggeration of the 
normal backward convexity of the spine is commonest ; it is 
termed kyphosis, and is shown by a slouching, rounded 
back, with chin poked out, a flat chest, and protruded 
abdomen. When told to hold themselves up, these children 
usually throw the shoulders back and protrude the abdomen 
more, strongly arching the spine below to exaggerate 
unnaturally the backward concavity, producing lordosis. If 
these conditions persist and become fixed a very great 
deformity may result. 

Lateral curvatures in slighter forms are largely mere 
developmental irregularities. A lateral curve may be 
either to the right or left, and is called scoliosis. It is 
predisposed to in children ' with weak backs and sloping 
shoulders, but it is not always possible to say which are 
likely to develop into bad cases, so that all have to be 
observed. Some 25 to 30 per cent, of children show 
scoliosis, and about one-tenth of these require systematic 
treatment. Boys and girls appear to figure equally in 



188 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



school inspections, but girls present most of the severe 
cases. 

Cases may be classified in three degrees: first, those 
in which the condition disappears on change of posture 
or by pressure of the hand; second, those in which it is 
improved but does not disappear; third, those in which 
it persists in spite of posture or pressure. Curvatures to 
the left are commonest, and are usually associated with 
some kyphosis or stooping ; the writing position tends to 




FIG. 25. Kyphotic child, showing 

over- , correct 



ordinary, 



corrected, an attitudes. 



develop this defect. When the child is stripped and 
stands up with its back to the observer the curvature 
shows; the shoulder seems raised on that side, and the 
opposite hip is more prominent. 

The school can do something towards prophylaxis. Early 
detection is required by medical inspections. Healthy 
schoolrooms, suitable desks, no protracted sitting in desks, 
and no bad attitudes should be allowed. Failure to 
maintain good posture is probably the school factor most 
tending to aggravate these conditions. 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 189 

Daily exercise and rest in the corrected position cure 
or improve two-thirds of the cases. For some years 
regular school classes have been used in Germany for 
many of these cases, but it is doubtful whether any but 
early or slight cases are benefited. Where what is 
known as the creeping method is used, children crawl 
in a circle, so that the spine is bent against the 
curvature; the children have to attend for many months 
or even years. Severer cases must be treated by good 
regimen, rest, and definite corrective exercises in a proper 
gymnasium. 

Flat-foot. This is a condition which before the war 
caused the rejection of up to one-third of the recruits 
in some European armies. 

Some children have weak feet from the leg muscles 
not supporting the foot in standing, and all the strain 
falling on the ligaments, the foot being of normal shape 
when at rest. In true flat-foot the ligaments become 
stretched, so that the inner edge of the sole touches 
the ground, and with a wetted sole the whole surface 
makes an imprint, the healthy foot only making the 
imprint of heel, toes, and outer side. About one-third 
of the children in poorer schools have some degree of 
flat-foot. Much heavy work, out-of-school work, heavy 
and unyielding boots, and clogs especially, dispose to 
aggravate flat-foot, particularly in weakly or ill-nourished 
children. Anything which displaces weight from the 
ball of the foot or towards the inner side, and certain 
positions, the turning out of the toes, for instance, in 
teaching infants to walk, or in physical exercises, tends 
to develop the condition. The absurd Parademarsch (goose- 
step) of the German soldiers, turning and pointing the 
toes down and out, causes the defect. In walking, the 
feet should move in parallel lines passing through 
the centre of the heel and the big toe. Walking on 



190 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

tiptoe, or going tiptoe upstairs silently, dancing or skip- 
ping on the toes, are useful exercises, the feet being in 
good positions. 

Painful feet should always be submitted for medical 
inspection, lest serious disease, like commencing tubercle, 
be missed. Many children suffer from perspiration, which, 
with ill-ventilated shoes, may be offensive. It readily 
yields to the use of powdered boracic acid as a dusting 
powder after washing, and in the socks and shoes. 

After middle life, with relaxation of tissues in those who 
from want of exercise are so disposed, and who, like most 
teachers, have much standing, flat-Hoot may give trouble, 
and requires treatment by supports. 



CHAPTEK XVI 
SLEEP AND BEST 

SLEEP is the most complete form of rest. During sleep 
the flow of blood through the brain is much diminished, 
and consciousness ceases. Some mental action still con- 
tinues, and in shallow sleep dreams may be partially 
remembered, a fact throwing some light on hidden mental 
action. If a child eats and sleeps well, the brain is 
almost certainly not being overworked. On the contrary, 
where there has been excessive mental work, the effects 
of this cannot be entirely compensated by prolonging 
sleep. The mental work must be diminished, and more 
time allowed for recreation. Where sleep has been lost, 
the effect of a single night of loss may be detected by 
psychological tests for nearly a week, although the sufferer 
may be quite unconscious of it otherwise. 

In some observations on young animals, total loss of 
sleep seemed more important than loss of food. On the 
other hand, after deep sleep there appears to be a period 
of lessened mental capacity. Observations on the Conti- 
nent, where a midday rest is the rule, showed that 
subsequent mental capacity varied with depth of sleep. 

The nursling in the vegetative stage of growth chiefly 
feeds and sleeps, and the younger the child the more 
sleep required. The brain is rapidly increasing in weight 
till seven years of age, and till then the child has need of 
much sleep. It should certainly not pass twelve hours 

191 



192 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

without. The best sleeping-time for the youngster under 
seven is an hour or more between one and four of the 
afternoon. Much of the success of the open-air schools 
in both England and America is due to the uncon- 
sciously adopted regular midday rest picked up from the 
Charlottenburg school. Every infant mistress knows that 
many of her charges will sleep and that all would be 
better if they could. It should be a requirement of the 
Board of Education that every child under seven in 
infant schools must have at least forty minutes' quiet 
and undisturbed rest after midday. Where provision has 
not been made for hammocks, some mistresses have 
turned the small tables upside down and with coarse 
canvas and tapes at the corners constitute a hammock 
slung from the table legs and sufficient for an infant. 

Amount of Sleep. The standard for what is sufficient 
sleep has been generally accepted as that recommended 
by Dr. Dukes, of Rugby, who gave thirteen hours for 
seven-year-olds, down to nine hours for sixteen-year- 
olds. Numerous inquiries in elementary schools all give 
results much short of this. But children as well as 
adults have individual differences, some needing much 
more than others. Napoleon the Great is said to have 
rarely slept more than four hours at a time. 

The spontaneous sleep of children probably depends on 
climate, social stratum, and housing. Schmid-Monnard, 
in Halle, found seven-year boys to average twelve hours, 
eleven hours at fourteen, and nine hours at eighteen. In 
California, where the conditions of life are probably much 
easier, Terman fixed 11-15 hours between six and seven, 
9-31 hours at thirteen to fourteen, and 8'54 hours from 
fifteen to sixteen. These are about an hour above 
the values usually slept in England as determined by 
Miss Eavenhill. Terman obtained no relation between 
sleep and school subjects; he thought the quality of 



SLEEP AND REST 193 

the earlier sleep was most important, and that the value 
of mere duration was overestimated. The quality of 
sleep is much interfered with by bad housing in large 
cities, where there is scarcely room for children to live 
and the majority of children have to sleep two or three 
in a bed, disturbed by the comings and goings of adults, 
and often troubled by smaller bed-fellows, who give little 
rest, especially in the warm summer. The temperature 
of the room if over 65 tends to prevent sleep, and bad 
ventilation may render it unrefreshing. 

Professor Sakaki, from aesthesiometric studies, says 
Japanese boys require half an hour's longer sleep than 
girls of corresponding ages. 

Probably for all young children the sleep requirements 
would be best met by securing as undisturbed rest as 
possible in the earlier part of the night, and also the 
securing at least one rest hour between noon and four 
in the afternoon. 

Sleep may be disturbed pathologically. Night terrors 
occur in many nervous children. The child may waken, 
screaming and pale, not able to recognize others, and 
inarticulate with fright, or having seen some terror or 
other. These nightmares are nerve storms, some of which 
are of an epileptic nature, some associated with adenoids, 
whilst the majority of sufferers seem to be merely nervous, 
rickety children. The condition is not one to neglect, as 
such children may suffer severely later. The child who 
does sums in his sleep is also nervous, but is merely deal- 
ing with the strange things of his experience beyond his 
home, and although the sums may not be the cause, still 
talking in sleep suggests abnormal excitement, and it is 
often an early , symptom of disease ; it may be a feverish 
cold, or latent rheumatism, or even beginning meningitis. 
Bed-wetting occurs in nervous children, but it is commonest 
among children who have not been taught good habits ; 

13 



194 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

it is often associated with nail-biting ; such children, becom- 
ing hospital patients, are generally taught better by the 
nurses in a very short time. It is not an infrequent 
symptom in mentally defective children ; sometimes, how- 
ever, it is due to the irritation of parasites or even to 
excessive drinking late in the day. Withholding fluid 
after five o'clock works a charm for many, and where 
acidity is the cause, barley-water for a few days may be 
helpful. Some cases are relieved by adenoid or nasal 
operation ; a few are found who must be turned out of bed 
last thing at night ; and even then some remain who are 
almost incurable. In a few cases early morning attacks, 
which are really epileptic fits, are mistaken for terrors. 
The child may not cry out ; it may, however, bite its tongue 
and stain the pillow, or it may wet the bed, and these 
may be the only indications of epilepsy for years. Such 
children are occasionally punished for inattention in school 
on days subsequent to their attacks. Where difficulty of 
going to sleep exists, school worry, or overwork, is to be sus- 
pected. Worry may exist in quite small children, and in 
such cases quiet and soothing kindly talk is the best treat- 
ment, but its real sources are probably beyond the school. 
It is the older pupils, especially girls or teachers, who are 
sleepless from overwork. A good rule is a fixed hour for 
bed, from which there is no departure, and an absolute 
cessation of all school tasks at least half an hour previously. 
Tea or coffee must always be remembered as contributory 
causes of wakefulness. Persistent insomnia after child- 
hood is sometimes the expression of eye strain, without 
other noticeable symptoms, in astigmatic cases who may 
show good visual acuity. 



CHAPTEE XVII 
NUTRITION AND DIET 

Food and Growth. The diet of children should be 
generous and abundant. 

There is no danger of giving too much food, if only 
simple and wholesome dishes are allowed. After forty it 
may be broadly said that the chief danger in regard to diet 
is of overfeeding, under twenty of underfeeding. It must 
be remembered that during youth, and up to the age of 
twenty-five, physiological processes are more active than 
at a later period ; freer exercise is usually taken, and, in 
addition, food is required not only to supply energy for 
carrying on the functions of the body, but also for purposes 
of growth. Children have to make new tissues as well as 
to keep in repair those already formed. Also as their 
bodies expose more surface, in proportion to bulk, than 
adults, they require a proportionately larger amount of 
food to compensate for loss of heat. 

It is, in the main, only after waste of tissues and loss of 
heat have been provided for that any surplus of nutriment 
goes to the further growth of the body. If the food supply 
is scanty, one of two things must happen : growth will 
be impeded, and children will be stunted specimens of 
humanity ; or some of the organs of the body, as the 
brain, or muscles, or bone, will suffer in functional 
activity and may eventually become the seat of actual 
disease. 

196 



196 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

The younger an animal, the more easily is it starved ; 
and the more actively growing are its organs, the more 
seriously they are injured by partial starvation; and the 
same applies to human beings. 

In the ultimate analysis, human or any other life appears 
to have two chief purposes : the first is nutrition of the body, 
and the second continuance of the race. 

In the growing individual, nutrition is the most important 
thing; if that is unsatisfactory, every other consideration 
must be pushed aside until it is righted. Questions of 
education are but vanity, and to raise thrift or self-help into 
discussion is hypocrisy, if these things stand in the way of 
remedying ill-nutrition in the child. 

The ill-nourished individual has little reserve, either 
muscular or vital, being easily liable to fatigue ; the accom- 
panying conditions also render facile bacterial invasion. 
The ever-present tubercle bacillus then finds opportunity 
for renewed growth. The various organisms which 
normally maintain unobtrusive existence on the skin and 
mucous membranes assert themselves as sores and break- 
ings out, catarrhs, running ears, corneal ulcers, or in the 
blepharitis and sore lids which are only common in the 
weak and ill-nourished. The lymphatic glands, too, often 
give evidence of some enlargement from bacterial invasion 
badly dealt with. 

Many of the cases which are slurred over as simple 
amentia are cases where the rhythm of development appears 
interfered with, being retarded by ill-nutrition, and instead 
of being spread over a long time, their physical evolution 
is late and unsatisfactorily accomplished in a short time ; 
meanwhile their brains respond poorly to the demands of 
education. Dr. Crowley in Bradford noted that children of 
exceptional intelligence were 62-7 per cent, good nutrition, 
whilst dull children had only 24-9 per cent, good nutrition. 
Nutrition, then, is a complex which may be very difficult to 



NUTRITION AND DIET 197 

assess. It is a condition in which is summed the whole 
environment and past history of the child. 

It has already been seen that every cell is harmfully 
affected by the products of its own activity (fatigue) which 
require removal, and that for healthy nutrition of the cells 
good lymph and blood circulation are required, necessitating 
stimulation by exercise, removal of heat and moisture by 
cool, moving air, and sufficient time for cell recuperation 
in rest and sleep. These things every school child needs, 
although most lack some at least, in sufficiency. They are 
discussed under their several headings. Far beyond these, 
however, in importance for the growing child, is sufficiency 
of food. The proposition is quite incontestable that want of 
sufficient food, starvation, is the main cause of ill-nutrition 
in the elementary school. 

The only reliable way of assessing nutrition is from the 
estimate built up by a trained observer during a clinical 
examination. Measurement, and such mechanical means, 
may serve for groups, but fail signally with the individual, 
and it is only by application to the individual that any 
estimate becomes of value. This tends to be forgotten in 
the heaping up of meaningless and unmanageable piles of 
figures, which have become fashionable and give a spurious 
appearance of definite and accurate results to official reports. 
The estimates of nutritional condition hitherto published 
regarding masses of children scarcely inspire confidence, e.g. 
subnormal and bad nutrition exists in 1*2 per cent, in 
Rhondda, 9'5 per cent, in Willesden, 15'7 per cent, in 
Brighton, and 26'3 per cent, in Norwich, according to the 
figures given in the Board of Education Report for 1912. 
The healthy child up till four or five is chubby and fat; 
then a lean period follows for several years with the 
commencement of the second dentition, followed by another 
couple of chubby years, and again the lean and lank growth 
up to puberty. If these periods are remembered, no one 



198 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

will fall into the sad error of attempting to compare 
entrants with leavers by percentages of nutritional con- 
ditions, and from these figures speak of loss or gain during 
school-life. 

The judgment of nutrition is much affected by surround- 
ings ; a doctor, for example, tends to mark the later cases 
seen more leniently even in the course of a single session. 
Fatness and colour are both evidence of nutrition. 
Probably for any tabular or statistical purpose children 
should first be estimated as either normal or anaemic. 
These two classes should then be noted as poor, fair, or 
good nutrition, according to the general textural solidity 
and tone of skin, muscle, and subcutaneous fat. 

A very useful method of making the last classification is 
that of Wimmenaur, who inspects the child in an oblique 
light, and classifies by the condition noted in the thoracic 
walls as (1) well nourished, when the intercostal spaces are 
scarcely noticeable ; (2) when the spaces below the nipple 
level show between the ribs the child is fairly nourished, 
and (3) when the spaces show deeply, and appear also 
above the nipples below the great muscles it is poorly 
nourished. Girls have to be more strictly judged than boys, 
as they tend to be fatter. 

Other circumstances furnish indications in loss of 
muscular tone, cold blue hands, harsh dry skin or hair, 
blepharitis; or fatigue signs, such as lassitude, mental 
dullness, tired, half-shut eyes, often puffy-looking or with 
dark rings round them. The fat, lymphatic children, liable 
to bronchitis or catarrh, referred to on p. 185, are a good 
example of ill- nutrition from other causes than want of 
food. Ill-nutrition as the result of chronic products of 
disease is most commonly seen in tubercular diseases, often, 
however, a result of starvation. 

Another method of valuation suggested has been by 
Oppenheimer's nutritional quotient. The maximum girth 



NUTRITION AND DIET 199 

of the relaxed arm multiplied by 100, and divided by the 
chest circumference, at the end of expiration, gives a value 
about 29. A higher value is taken as indicating very good 
nutrition, whilst a value of 27 or less is taken as poor 
nutrition all measurements being, of course, taken in the 
international centimetre and kilogram. 

A more popular method is the nutritional index found by 
multiplying the cube root of the weight by 100 and 
dividing by the height. Somewhere about 80 per cent, of 
the ordinary school children give this index between 2*2 
and 2'4. Cases with an index below 2-2 should be further 
noted regarding nutrition. The index varies with age from 
about an average of 2-65 at three years old to 2-27 at 
fourteen, and is generally greater for residential than for 
day-schools. A further age correction has been suggested, 
to get the index nearer a constant by multiplying it by 

the factor a & e + It then varies between 2-11 and 2-16. 
age + 2 

None of these methods is reliable for any individual case, 
and the average value of the fractions for considerable 
numbers will always vary with the time of year. 

Nutritional Types. Finally, for judgment of nutrition 
certain types have to be remembered. The thin-boned, 
gracile child of nervous appearance, with long eyelashes, 
downy hair on the back, and often over-developed cranium, 
is easily fatigued, and disposed to the various developmental 
defects, such as scoliosis, flat-foot, or myopia. This build 
especially may have the attachment of the end of the tenth 
rib to the sternum loose and wide. Usually, in most normal 
children, the end is beyond the nipple line, and cannot 
be felt or displaced up or down. In over 10 per cent. 
in some schools it can be grasped and moved, as its 
cartilaginous attachment is so loose, and it may even be felt 
as if free. This is known as Stiller's sign, and the loose 
attachment of the rib is supposed to favour displacement 



200 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



of the viscera down and forward, with various nervous and 
other symptoms as a result. In the majority of such cases 
there is found a tendency to weakness and nervousness, 
and conversely in an ill-nourished, debilitated child the 
chances of material and lasting improvement are not 
very hopeful if Stiller 's sign is present. 

WEIGHTS KILOS 



160 














_X^ 


<'.'/ 




1*0 










_X 


< 


^: 






//tfl 










1 


/;-.'. 


















XT- 










130 






J 


fi ; 












/20 






4 


/: 










s 

u 


110 




// 


w\ 












12 


100 




m 














-c 



!' 1 




> 


y.. 














S 


go 


- 



















so 


i 



















ZO 25 30 35 40 45 50 

FIG. 26. Relation of weight and height in good nutrition ; based 
on Brighton boys, continuous, and girls, dotted curves. 

Any child whose record would fall on the clear part of the diagram 
should be classed as physiologically necessitous in regard to feeding. 

In assessing nutrition, race may have to be discounted, 
and recent illness, or the existence of definite disease. 

When these considerations are balanced, it will be 
evident that the attempt to make nutrition per se a subject 
of statistical returns is faced by such enormous experi- 
mental error in the mass that it blocks out all possibilities 
of fair comparison. Descriptive words would afford truer 
ideas than figures, which here tend often to give a spurious 
appearance of accuracy. 



NUTRITION AND DIET 201 

One of the most practical methods is that adopted at 
Brighton, where the average weight for each height has 
been tabulated, and any child not up to the weight for 
its height is watched ; it is taken that it requires feeding 
more than a child below both average weight and height 
for its age. The weights of the girls begin about the 
same as the boys, but with gradually increasing height 
the girls' weights also increase, till by the top of the 
height they are a kilogram heavier than equally tall boys. 
From the Brighton experience the diagram has been 
compiled, such that any child whose height and weight 
would fall in the clear space above the curve requires 
further inquiry as to nutrition. This method would also 
afford a rational discrimination of the children who need 
feeding. 

Food. School meals, which, as the Philadelphia Com- 
mittee stated in their first report, " merely scratch the 
surface of a social evil," were originally organized about 
1868 in France as Cantities scolaires. Various charitable 
efforts established and maintained a considerable amount 
of school feeding in England up till 1906, when legisla- 
tion enabled authorities to spend up to the amount of 
a halfpenny rate on such feeding, and in 1914 various 
restrictions were withdrawn and a grant established. The 
feeding of a starving child is not a charity, but a duty 
of the State towards a future citizen. The State can 
settle up with others who should have performed this 
service, but towards the child it has the one urgent duty of 
feeding it and keeping it from want. This is being recog- 
nized, and during 1912-13, out of three and a third million 
children, 11-6 per cent, had some school feeding. 

The estimation of the energy of food is determined 
experimentally in calories, the number of thermal units, 
given out in combustion. This calorie is, however, usually 
taken as 1,000 times that of the calorie, the C.G.S. unit 



202 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

of heat. The average heat of combustion of 1 gram of 
carbohydrate is 4-1 calories; of fat, 9*45 calories, and of 
protein, 5'65 calories. But allowance has to be made for 
the body not totally destroying these materials as food. 
By experiments on animals nearer values are found, as 
carbohydrates 41, fats 9'3, protein 4'1. 

If the composition of a food is known the fuel values can 
be calculated. Milk is composed of about protein 3*3, fat 
4'0, carbohydrate 5'0 per cent, respectively, and multiplying 
these quantities by the heat value of each, the fuel value 
of 100 grams of milk works out as 7'8 calories. 

The food for an average professional man was found 
for himself by Professor Neumann, during ten months 
without gain of weight, to average 2,242 calories daily. 
He then lived more luxuriously, on roughly about 2,600 
calories, gaining weight about ten pounds ; and then again 
for eight months determined his consumption without 
losing weight as 2,000 calories. 

Much depends on the work done. Whilst the sedentary 
life in the laboratory only took from 2,000 to 2,250 calories, 
this can be exceeded. A sleeping man will use about 6'5 
calories per hour, but by very severe exercise a man can 
raise this expenditure to 650 calories in the hour. Some 
American estimates give approximate requirements as 2,000 
calories daily for a shoemaker, 3,000 for a carpenter, 
4,000 for a farm worker, 5,000 for a lumberman. 

There is very little evidence as to the least amount of 
food required by a growing child. Dr. Chalmers Watson 
conducted an inquiry in Edinburgh on five-year-old children 
and assessed the daily requirements as proteids 72 grams, 
fats 69 grams, carbohydrates 198 grams, a total value 
in calories of 1,701. The School Board dinner he found 
as proteids 27, fats 9, carbohydrates 102, a heat value of 
597 calories much too scanty. Eecently a carefully worked 
estimate on the Continent took it that the average child 



NUTRITION AND DIET 203 

of eleven to twelve required 1,500 calories daily, of which 
45 per cent, should be given in the midday meal, which 
would be 675 calories, but as the other meals are not likely 
to be proportionate, this was taken as 850 calories. The 
experience of boarding schools and residential institutions 
shows that a healthy boy in the later years of school-life 
requires nearer 3,000 than 2,000 calories, if he is to be 
sufficiently and well fed. 

The growing child requires more food than would be 
expected if compared with an adult. A well-fed boy is 
generally ravenous, but poorly fed children, with debilitated 
organs, at school dinners can sometimes be hardly got 
to eat, and at first often refuse the food provided. 

The meals given to children are nearly always deficient 
in protein and fat, and the child is stoged up with carbo- 
hydrates in the form of bread or pudding. It gets plenty 
of carbohydrate elsewhere, but the more costly protein 
and fat it does not get so easily. If a child is to be 
properly fed, nearly all the protein and fat should be 
given in the school meal. If the above points are attended 
to a suitable physiological dinner, including the service 
and food, cannot be given much under about threepence 
a meal. Dr. Watson insists that tuberculously disposed 
children, who are the majority of the ill-nourished, need 
excess of protein. He says that the protein of milk is 
much better than that of meat. School doctors generally 
agree that a cup of milk between eleven and twelve o'clock 
is an economical way of giving a fillip to nutrition. The 
fat of milk appears to contain a vitamine, one of a class 
of bodies small quantities of which are essential for growth 
and health. 

One of the most valuable feeding experiments was the 
inquiry of Dr. Crowley in Bradford. He gave two meals 
daily, breakfast of porridge and treacle, bread and mar- 
garine, and milk, and a dinner, the amounts of protein 



204 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

being calculated at two-thirds of the child's requirement. 
His feeding cost four and one-fifth pennies a day. He 
calculated that on this basis father, mother, and five 
children require 18s. 8d. weekly for food alone, an amount 
which condemns as unsound the methods at present 
applied for selection on the poverty basis. 

Properly worked, the school dining-room can be made 
as efficient a manufacturer of good citizens as the class- 
room, and the opportunities for social education are even 
greater. This promises to be realized in a few years ; 
meanwhile the school medical officer has to keep in 
mind the conditions of Grant. This depends on organi- 
zation, and selection of children, dietary, educational 
aspect, and suitability of accommodation, equipment, and 
service. There is an aesthetic quality of considerable 
physiological value in dining, as well as the administra- 
tion of 800 or 1,000 calories value, and sufficient time and 
freedom, opportunity for converse, and intervals between 
items should be given. The dining-room should be 
properly appointed and warmed ; there should be no 
waiting turns in the rain outside. The opportunity for 
washing is often, and any sanitary convenience occasion- 
ally, lacking. Tablecloths, where provided, are soon 
soiled by dirty hands and clothes, especially in places 
where school baths are wanted. 

Some instruction in food values is of value as part of 
the training for girls. The Cheshire County Council some 
years ago issued a very good pamphlet on this, and 
among other items called attention to waste on costly 
foods in a statement which is broadly true : 

" Among expensive foods are cream, eggs, choice kinds 
of fish (salmon, sole, turbot, brill), and the choice cuts 
of meat. Calf's-foot and other jellies are of little value 
as foods. Meat extracts, meat juices, meat essences, 
broths and beef-tea are very wasteful foods for healthy 



NUTRITION AND DIET 205 

persons. Many costly kinds of nourishment are no 
better than cheaper substitutes ; for instance 

" Cod-liver oil is no more feeding than butter, fat bacon, 
or other fat. 

" Cod-liver oil emulsion no more feeding than cream. 

" Meat extract no more feeding than honey or treacle. 

" Malt and cod-liver oil no more feeding than toffee. 

" Eevalenta is no more feeding than lentil or pea flour. 

" Petroleum emulsion contains no nourishment at all." 

Children require to drink frequently, and although in 
our moist climate this is not so urgent as in other lands, 
provision of drinking-water is always necessary. A 
separate drinking-vessel should be provided for each child 
at the school meal. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

DENTAL CAEE 

THE new-born child is without teeth, but one by one 
during infancy the twenty teeth of the temporary set 
appear. The structures soon to form the thirty-two 
permanent teeth are hidden in the jaw underneath them. 
This gradual appearance of the temporary or deciduous 
teeth and their replacement by the permanent set is 
full of meaning to the biologist, and represents ancient 
stages of racial development which cannot be entered on 
here. 

In rare cases, as is narrated of Eichard III and 
Louis XIV, the child when born has a tooth or two in 
front, but usually the first tooth appears within a few 
weeks before or after the beginning of the seventh month, 
and by the twenty-fifth to thirtieth month the whole of 
the first set should have appeared. About the sixth year 
the first permanent molars come through. Considerable 
variation in these events is possible ; thus, the first molars, 
commonly called the " six-year-old molars," may appear 
at five and a half, or exceptionally even earlier; on the 
other hand, they may be much delayed. 

The average years of age for appearance of the other 
teeth may be set out as in the table on the opposite 
page. 

If collated with other physical facts the condition of 
evolution of the teeth can be made useful in determining 

206 



DENTAL CARE 



207 



the physiological status of the child, whether precocious 
or retarded. It is noticeable that girls, in this as in other 
things, are, as compared with boys, somewhat precocious, 
having generally a tooth more than boys at the same age. 



Teeth. 


Boys. 


Girls. 


Teeth. 


Boys. 


Girls. 


Inner Incisors 


7-5 1-4 


7-0 1-6 


Canines . 


ll-2l-4 


11-3 1-0 


Outer Incisors 


9-5 2-1 


8-9 2-1 


Second Molars 


13-220 


12-8 1-6 


Biscupids 


9-8 1-6 


9-0 2-8 


Wisdom . 


22-2 1-7 


21-8 1-8 



Teeth may be regarded, like hair or nails, as particularly 
modified skin structures. A small process of epithelium 
of the mouth grows down to form an enamel organ, 




PIQ. 27. Diagrammatic section of a molar, to show 
the enamel covering of the crown, the dentine, 
with the pulp cavity and nutrient vessels, and 
the cementum covering the roots. 

which, meeting another process, the dental papilla, de- 
velops, according to its situation, to form one or other 
of the teeth. The general plan of the tooth is a solidly 
constructed crown, which appears above the gums, joined 



208 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

by a neck to one or more roots or fangs, by which it is 
embedded in the alveolus of the jaw. The greater part 
of the tooth is made up of dentine, a hard, ivory-like 
material, laid down in structure radiating from the central 
pulp cavity, which cavity extends through the roots to 
receive blood-vessels and nerves from the structures of 
the jaw. The nutrition of the tooth depends on this 
pulp and on the dental periosteum. The exposed surfaces 
of the tooth are covered with the enamel, which is the 
hardest material in the body. The roots have an outer 
coat of bony material, the cement layer. 

The growth of the permanent tooth germs goes on in 
the jaws below the temporary teeth. The roots of these 
last are gradually absorbed, till finally they are so slightly 
attached that they are displaced by food, or can be flicked 
out with a finger-tip. Sometimes, but rarely, children are 
seen in school with a double row of teeth in front, the 
deciduous set still remaining and the permanent teeth 
having erupted almost parallel to them. 

Defects. It is a popular error that the temporary or 
milk teeth are not of importance, and so they come to be 
neglected. Disease in these teeth, however, often results 
in defects in the permanent set. The milk teeth are laid 
down in structure long before birth, and the formation of 
the crowns of the permanent teeth has already well com- 
menced by the second year of life. 

The commonest defect in teeth which increases liability 
to future disease is irregular, defective, and deficient 
structure of the enamel, known as hypoplasia, which 
produces honeycombed teeth. In the temporary set this 
would be due to ill-health in the mother, producing de- 
fective dental nutrition in the child before birth. It is, 
however, in the permanent teeth that the condition is of 
such serious importance, and then it is usually due to 
malnutrition in the first couple of years of life. 



DENTAL CARE 



209 



Eickets is the commonest cause. Syphilitic disease may 
also be a cause when inherited ; it most commonly results 
in a defective growth, which shows as a notch at the middle 
of the edge of the central permanent incisors. The 
occurrence of any disease disturbing nutrition may be 
shown in the teeth later ; for instance, measles at an early 
age may leave its permanent record as a small horizontal 
groove or series of pittings in the enamel of teeth which 
appear years later. Another cause of misplaced front 
teeth and distorted jaw from protrusion is the septic 
condition and mechanical pressure the result of using a 




FIG. 28. Breach in enamel of molar, resulting in 
invasion of dentine and pulp cavity. 

dummy teat, or even of thumb- sucking. Any defect in 
the enamel is serious, in that not only are the teeth more 
fragile, but decaying material, as decomposing food, 
accumulating there, may at last attack the enamel, and 
if this is perforated, the more vulnerable dentine yields 
easily and extensively. It is soon softened, and inflam- 
mation ultimately starts in the pulp cavity, often resulting 
in loss of the tooth. This is the frequent cause of tooth- 
ache and dental abscess. 

Caries. Destruction of the enamel by acids, often 
produced by germs in fermenting food remains, constitutes 

14 



210 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

dental caries, the commonest disease of civilization. C. E. 
Wallis has pointed out that the worse and more poverty- 
stricken the class of school child, the better the teeth ; this 
he takes to mean absence of sweets, and no cakes or 
biscuits at bed-time, to aid the start of caries. Caries is 
common in all classes. Spokes, in about 1,300 boys of the 
average age of thirteen at Haileybury College, only found 
about 3 per cent, with flawless dentition. Collated exami- 
nations of about half a million children in various European 
schools showed that 95 per cent, had some caries present. 
The importance of the subject is therefore not likely to 
be overestimated. 

It was long ago pointed out that racial elements affected 
the predisposition to dental decay. A French writer, 
Magitot, in 1872 noted : " Les populations de la Prance se 
s^parent au point de vue de la vie dentaire en deux grandes 
families, la famille celtique, a individus petits et trapus et 
a dentition robuste ; la famille kimrique, a individus grands, 
blonds, et dont 1'organisation dentaire est defectueuse." 
This has later been confirmed for Dutch and German 
populations the short, broad-faced Alpine (celtique) 
individuals only having about half the amount of dental 
defect present in the narrow-faced Teutonic (kimrique) 
individuals. Evidently the first point in the prevention 
of caries is to grow healthy teeth, by having a healthy 
mother and a well-nourished infancy, free from debilitat- 
ing disease. Caries has, however, been much overlooked. 
It usually begins between the teeth, and so early that on 
first coming to school many children have already septic 
cavities in their teeth and tender mouths. Half of the six- 
year-old molars are diseased by the eighth birthday. Most 
of the pain of children is toothache or earache due to referred 
dental irritation, and tender mouths lead to bolted food. 
This and the constant absorption of toxic fluids like pus 
generally have serious results in the long run. Most of 



DENTAL CARE 211 

these children also have enlarged lymphatic glands from 
constant irritation. 

Although Wallin in America believed in 1913 that 
psychological tests showed better mental performance in 
those with teeth well cared for, this is rather against 
common experience as regards other health conditions and 
the teeth. No clear case has yet been made out for 
caries being a weighty factor in defects during childhood, 
but then practically all children have carious teeth. 

Dr. Hunter states that the experience of the London 
Fever Hospital among children is such that in a disease 
like scarlatina the septic complications middle-ear sup- 
puration, septic adenitis, albuminuria, gangrenous stoma- 
titis, septic gastritis, and so on are all more common and 
more severe where oral sepsis is marked. 

Bad results of dental neglect are abundantly seen in 
later life. Any large hospital in an industrial district 
shows many cases of adult men with phthisis ; there is 
usually a long history of stomach trouble, and a thoroughly 
septic mouth, with painful, foul, and useless stumps, which 
if not the actual cause are certainly powerful factors in the 
debility which has led to invalidism. Many cases of so- 
called rheumatism, and chronic and invaliding forms of 
obscure septic and painful joint diseases, frequently begin 
with oral sepsis, and some of these cases are relieved by 
dental treatment. There is no doubt about the extensive 
destruction of teeth going on quite early in life, affecting 
the individual's prospects, seriously damaging his wage- 
earning capacity, and even reducing some to a condition 
of semi-invalidism. Until quite recent years this was mani- 
fest in candidates for the teaching profession; now it is 
becoming uncommon except in those from country districts. 

Public Provision. Although repeatedly urged by 
dentists, the importance of school dentistry was scarcely 
realized in this country until the International Congress 



212 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

of School Hygiene at Nuremberg in 1904 made the work 
of Professor Jessen and the school dental clinic of the 
Municipality of Strassburg widely known. Dental caries 
then became recognized as an insidious, widespread, and 
damaging affection, requiring to be dealt with by public 
provision. There is indeed no way of dealing with money 
in the interests of public health which will return so 
enormous a gain to the population for the same relatively 
small expense as this matter of school dentistry and its 
following up to later life. 

Deplorable results are often seen, which have cost the 
patients much at the hands of unregistered dentists, whose 
certificates are not recognized by many public bodies or 
by the Board of Education. The school dental clinic not 
only protects against this costly and inefficient practice, 
but if properly worked gives the greatest national results 
at least cost. Unfortunately, the full extent of the public 
provision required has not been everywhere appreciated, 
and here and there ideas of charitable service have crept 
in. A self-respecting people will at once stamp out any 
charity from their public service, and the school dental 
service will not attain its full economical development 
until every school child passes into the dental chair for 
examination and, if necessary, treatment once a year. 
Where so many are affected, dental examinations are 
almost a waste of time in school, and often lead to the 
stitch in time being omitted ; it is for this reason that the 
routine annual visit to the clinic would be so valuable. 
Taking a long view, there should by this means be a 
considerable diminution of the amount of school dental 
work required in a few years, and it might then pay to 
revert to examination in the schoolroom. Efficient work 
in the school dental clinic ought also to be many times 
repaid by its saving effect not only on the national health, 
but also on the national health funds. 



DENTAL CARE 213 

Educational Methods. Apart from actual examination 
and treatment of the teeth, there is something to be done 
by educational methods. The prophylaxis or prevention 
of honeycombed and misplaced teeth is most important, 
whence the education of mothers to look after their own 
health is a rational step' in the dental hygiene of the child. 
Further, the care of children in the earliest months, even 
before they have teeth, the avoidance of all causes of ill- 
nutrition, particularly rickets and diarrhoea, of the com- 
forter and of oral sepsis, or any debilitating disease all 
these are a part of the treatment. 

The child must be taught not to permit food debris to 
remain on the teeth ; he should have fibrous, hard, and 
stringy material requiring chewing at every meal. The 
use of the toothbrush and some tooth-powder should be 
made second nature. 

The New York Health Authorities recommend a tooth- 
powder composed of precipitated chalk 16 parts, powdered 
Castile soap 4 parts, and powdered orris-root 1 part. 
This is an elegant preparation, but precipitated chalk is 
the basis of nearly every tooth-powder, and camphorated 
chalk is probably as good as any; indeed, even ordinary 
whitening may be used with advantage. 



CHAPTER XIX 
CLOTHING 

Physiology of Dress. A certain temperature of the body 
surface is necessary for the maintenance of health, and 
from this temperature (about 98'5 Fahr.) it scarcely varies 
a degree. This temperature is the result of the chemical 
processes going on in the body, the fuel for which is 
supplied by the food taken. In a temperate or cold 
climate, food being deficient, the body temperature would 
fall if there were no reserve of combustible material stored 
up in the tissues. 

In order that the chemical changes which are comprised 
under the word metabolism, and which are the physical 
foundation of bodily energy and life, may be carried on, 
the regular removal of a definite quantity of heat is 
required from every square inch of skin. Much of this heat 
becomes latent and disappears in evaporation of perspira- 
tion. With very low temperatures of the surroundings a 
great excess of heat would be lost, and the prevention of 
this loss by clothing corresponds to a saving of food as fuel. 
Clothing should prevent as far as possible the chilling 
of the surface through loss of heat by radiation, which 
increases with the lowness of surrounding temperature, 
but should not interfere with that through evaporation, 
which rather diminishes with the low temperature. The 
clothing should be so loose that the film of air in contact 

214 



CLOTHING 215 

with the skin is free to move over the surface. The 
material which is best for both summer and winter wear 
is wool, which should be worn next the skin, except in 
the few to whom it is irritating. The thickness and not 
the material should be altered with the temperature. 

Amount of Clothing. The amount of clothing for 
children should be sufficient to prevent any sensation of 
cold. Excessive clothing may increase a tendency to catch 
cold, by exciting perspiration, and especially because the 
extra clothing is often thrown off at irregular intervals. 
The effect of wearing a thick scarf round the neck is a 
well-known instance of this. 

A deficient amount of clothing, especially in this 
variable English climate, is even more dangerous. Older 
children, by special feeding and by gradually increasing 
exposure in the sunshine, can be educated up to running 
and playing naked in the snow in a sunny Alpine 
climate. The attempt here, however, to harden young 
children to bear exposure to all kinds of cold with bare 
arms and legs, even when not engaged in active exercise, 
is calamitous; not a few are hardened out of the world, 
and those who survive may suffer in growth or constitu- 
tion. Children lose heat easily, and during the cold 
winter months there is high child mortality. 

Liebig first clearly explained the importance of clothing, 
saying, " Our clothing is, in reference to the temperature 
of the body, merely an equivalent for a certain amount 
of food." It will be easily understood, therefore, how in 
cold climates deficient clothing, like deficient food, may 
produce stunted growth, lay the foundation of disease, or 
bring latent disease into activity. 

Although chilblains are an expression of imperfect 
nutrition, and chiefly seen in children, where this is one 
result of insufficient stimulating exercise, they are mos 
prevalent in cold, badly ventilated residential institutions, 



216 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

and chiefly appear in damp and cold weather among 
those insufficiently clad. 

Distribution of Clothing. The clothing of children 
should be of such a character that the warmth resulting 
is uniformly distributed. No extra amount of chest pro- 
tection will prevent bronchitis or pneumonia if there is 
chilling from cold legs or feet. 

The fashionable habit, especially for young girls, of 
bare arms and legs, except in the height of summer, is 
reprehensible. Bare legs and white cotton socks may be 
the cause of much misery in later life, from contributing 
to the latent rheumatism so common in children. The 
Punch picture of the " Spartan Mother " covered in furs, 
with her scantily dressed, half-naked children, illustrates 
what is to be met in London streets as late as November. 

The ideal dress for young girls is the popular gym cos- 
tume (tunic, blouse, and knickers). Boys are usually 
fairly clothed, unless they have too much, e.g. as many as 
three waistcoats, and many children of the adenoid type 
are swathed up by careful mothers till they are actually 
made delicate, and then are dosed with cod-liver oil, when 
what they require is generally free activity and exer- 
cise. Damp weather has always to be provided for in 
England. Unless for temporary wear, waterproof garments 
are objectionable as preventing evaporation ; this should 
be allowed for under a loose cape. Damp clothes require 
removal as soon as possible, otherwise evaporation may 
result in such serious loss of heat that a chill results. 
Cloakrooms require large provision for heat and ventila- 
tion beyond that for the rest of the school, although 
occasionally both are found omitted. 

The changing of clothes at night-time is sometimes not 
completely done by girls, even as high as the Training 
Colleges, and in the lower classes of poor schools the 
tradition still is carried on of the small boy whose clothes 



CLOTHING 



217 



had been " sewn on for the winter." In recent years 
underclothing seen at medical inspection has improved. 
Children should be especially warned of the dangers of 
fire in respect to clothing of the necessity in case of 




FIG. 29. The Spartan Mother (from Punch, December 1913). 
By Special Permission. 

accident of lying down and of having a carpet or 
hearthrug tightly wrapped round them. Fireguards are 
a necessity in every room where children are free. 
Flannelette has had its scores of victims, and no 
material of this kind should be worn by children unless 



218 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

uninflammable. Celluloid collars or hair ornaments and 
combs have also dangers from easily catching fire. 

Tight clothing of any kind is to be avoided ; it inter- 
feres with ventilation, and also with free movements, and 
so hinders good exercise. Growing boys are often seen 
with excessively tight collars. Tight sleeves or skirts 
restrict movement of the limbs. Stockings are best held 
up with suspenders, not by garters, whose pressure 
tends to cold feet. Corsets are wholly objectionable on 
elementary school girls. Clothing generally should be 
slung from the shoulders and not tied round the waist. 

Foot-gear. Cold feet interfere with a child's comfort 
and distract its attention. Hindrances to circulation, such 
as the edge of too high a seat pressing the thigh behind 
the knee, by tight garters or tight boots, or even by sit- 
ting too long and too still, will dispose to the condition 
of cold feet. Boots are excessively heavy in many cases, 
although, on the other hand, thin boots are objection- 
able. Warming the classroom through the floor has 
great advantages, besides drying wet foot-gear. In some 
Amsterdam schools the wet shoes are dried on racks, the 
child meantime wearing list slippers. Some doctors have 
suggested clogs on account of cheapness and dryness, but 
these are wanting in elasticity and tend to cause flat- 
foot. High-heeled boots throw girls off their natural poise 
and produce a crippled, mincing gait. The shoes should 
be broad to give freedom to the toes, the greatest length 
being along the inner edge, and the wearer ought to be 
able to stand on tiptoe and exercise freely without trouble. 



CHAPTEK XX 
CLEANLINESS 

PERSONAL hygiene, and the cleanliness which this con- 
notes, are at the basis of a sanitary conscience, and the 
foundation of all rational and successful public health 
measures. 

The reminiscence of .courtly odours de temps jadis, 
said to have been awakened in a dowager of the ancient 
regime when the drains went wrong; and the removal of 
his own garments, to shake out the causes of the irrita- 
tion, as noted by the veracious Mr. Pepys, have become 
distant and astonishing memories. Advances in sanitation 
in the middle of last century were essentially those of 
water-supply and good drainage, which are the first 
requisites of cleanliness. 

Pediculosis. In spite of teachers and fifty years of 
supervision by H.M. Inspectors of Schools, every ele- 
mentary school at the beginning of the century had 
a large proportion of children visibly and obviously 
affected by vermin. One or two children could be 
found in most schools in a horrible state, and the 
writer recalls seeing, in the midst of an outdoor class 
at physical exercises, a well-grown girl, who in the sun- 
shine appeared greyheaded from the multitude of nits. 
Vermin were allowed a prevalence that produced caked 
sores about the occiput, and numerous enlarged lymphatic 
glands at ithe back of the neck, conditions now but rarely 

219 



220 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

seen, although even as late as 1907 Dr. Crowley, in his 
Bradford Eeport, makes a classification of children as 
" broken-out heads due to vermin." The doctor and the 
nurse in the school, however, have ameliorated all this. 

These vermin are common to every race, and multiply 
at an extraordinary rate whenever they get the chance, 
so that they become the pest of armies in the field. 

The head louse, Pediculus capitis, is different and 
smaller than the clothes louse, Pediculus vestimenti. A 
louse of a different genus, Phthirius, is found on the 
hair about the body. 

The louse lays 100 or more eggs during its three or 
four weeks of adult life. Those of P. capitis are fixed 
as nits by a narrow base to the hairs, with the broad 
end, closed by a little rounded lid, towards the free end 
of the hair. The lid comes off the nit in about six 
or eight days, and when the small, active louse leaves 
the empty nit-shell, the latter, hitherto translucent, 
becomes a whitish speck on the hair. The animal 
moults three or four times, reaching maturity in two or 
three weeks. The infection is most difficult to get rid 
of, being evidently passed on from child to child. It 
is through caps and clothes, in the rubbing and contact 
of play, and at home even more than at school, that the 
transference is effected. Boys are fairly free, being short- 
haired; the majority of long-haired girls in elementary 
schools show some traces of nits. For most, regular 
use of a small-tooth comb is the only sure means of free- 
dom. The wearing of the hair in a couple of plaits 
down the back appears to diminish materially the risks 
of contamination. 

Treatment. In a bad case the child's scalp requires 
soaking with paraffin oil, avoiding proximity to a naked 
light whilst doing this. Fortunately, although millions 
of children have been treated no accident from fire has 



CLEANLINESS 221 

been recorded. More thorough is an equal mixture of 
paraffin and olive oil kept on all night, the head being well 
wrapped up, and then washed with hot water and soft-soap 
in the morning, the nits being removed with a small-tooth 
comb and hot vinegar. More elegant preparations sug- 
gested are tincture of larkspur, or oil of sassafras, although 
the sassafras is strongly objected to by many on account of 
the smell in the classroom. If the mother sets about dili- 
gently cleaning her children's heads lice can be made to 
vanish in a week. Even allowing for bad housing, ill-lit 
rooms, and want of water, so far as head lice are concerned 
no mercy should be shown to parents who habitually send 
their children unclean to school, and usually the magis- 
trates take this view. Depending on the district, between 
5 to 10 per cent, of families are chronic, and three times as 
many occasional, offenders in this respect. 

Clothes- or body-vermin are rarely seen on the skin, but 
the marks of scratching show, and if the clothes next the 
skin are turned outside in, vermin are often seen on the 
inner surface and eggs about the seams, particularly about 
the neck, and where the material is gathered together. 
Even when biting, these particular animals are said never 
to leave go of the cloth. They can be got rid of by hot 
bathing, and by baking the clothes or at least going slowly 
over the seams with a hot iron. In many cases having 
clothes lice it is hardly compatible with justice to place 
responsibility on the parents. Some have to live in houses 
where water has to be carried up many stairs, or where the 
sun never enters, so that if even the means of destroying 
the nits in the clothes could be got, it is too dark to see 
them properly. Most disinfectants are useless in practice 
against lice and nits, although soaking with petrol and 
allowing this to dry off kills them. 

Cleansing Establishments, referred to later, should 
therefore now exist in connection with elementary schools. 



222 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Scabies. A comparatively rare disease, but one which 
may crop up unexpectedly in connection with any one in 
schools, is scabies or the itch. It is usually confined to 
members of a few families who have hitherto been laxly 
treated, but who should be effectively handled by isolation 
until they and their belongings are free from the parasite. 
In Aberdeen all are removed to the cleansing station, the 
house and its contents disinfected, the family cleansed, and 
again given a clean start in life. The continued existence 
of such families in a district is an index of sanitary 
inefficiency. 

The itch is due to a mite, one-fiftieth of an inch long, 
just visible to the naked eye. It burrows slantingly into 
the skin, laying its eggs at the bottom. The animal and its 
surroundings cause much irritation, with scratching. The 
usual appearance is of papules or pustules between the 
fingers, about the web of the thumb, the wrist and lower 
forearm. The disease may be mistaken for eczema, or put 
down to irritation from soap or washing soda, and may 
then get quite severe. The use of sulphur ointment, and 
sterilizing or baking the clothes, will readily put an end to 
it ; but if the environment is not also cleansed relapses are 
certain. Second-hand clothes are generally blamed for 
playing a considerable part in disseminating vermin 
troubles, and possibly the cloakroom plays a bigger part 
in school than the classroom. 

Ringworm. In the majority of cases, except in residen- 
tial establishments, ringworm is a disease of little impor- 
tance. There are several varieties, due to the growth of 
various fungi about the roots of the hair and in the hairs 
themselves. 

The commonest kind is the small spared ringworm, due 
to a fungus called microsporon Audouini. The infection 
appears to be commoner in the younger school children. 
The short-haired and cleanest boys appear to have vulner- 



CLEANLINESS 223 

able scalps. Most cases tend to spontaneous cure ; but 
many last till puberty, after which some change causes it 
to die out. The first appearance is a small reddish spot, 
the hairs break off short and leave a bald centre, covered 
with fine silvery scales, and with a reddish papular edge. 
Between the nails of finger and thumb half a dozen hair 
stumps can often be plucked easily at once. The stumps 
have a silvery white sheath on the lower part. If laid in 
chloroform on a microscope slide, on evaporation this 
whiteness is marked ; if then mounted in a weak solution 
of potash, the microscope shows the surface of the hair- 
stump eroded, and the hair covered or filled with small 
circular spores. 

In another form, the large spored or "black dot" ring- 
worm, the stumps break .off just flush with the surface, 
showing as small black dots. When one is removed by 
epilation forceps it is usually much curled, and on micro- 
scopic examination, as described above, instead of small 
spores the larger spores of the fungus are seen arranged in 
rows, looking square and jointed like a ladder. This form, 
inegalosporon or tricophyton tonsurans, is not very infectious, 
but is very resistant to treatment and slower in disappear- 
ing with age, persisting sometimes to sixteen or seventeen. 
It is often missed from bald spots the usual appearance 
in the commoner variety of microsporon being very rare 
in this variety. It is commonly found on animals, but does 
not occur once in twenty cases in children. 

Ringworm acts in many ways like one of the epidemic 
diseases, and a careful study of its mode of spread would be 
of great value. Epidemic outbursts occasionally occur in 
school, but chronic cases are very common where the hair 
grows on again, or where it has never been completely shed 
at any part, and the child is merely thought to have a 
scurfy head. Indeed, the majority of scurfy heads in school 
children are really chronic ringworm cases. When once 



224 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

well established the various ways of treatment, apart from 
X-radiation, are finally scarcely more efficacious than feed- 
ing the child up and leaving the disease to run its course, 
as its persistence generally wins the day, ultimately, how- 
ever, to disappear. The rapid method of cure is by epila- 
tion with Kontgen rays. The child's head is exposed to a 
definite dose of rays : the hair subsequently falls, bringing 
away the fungus with it. If during this time reinfection is 
prevented by the use of antiseptics, the child is cured in 
about six weeks. From careless or inexperienced workers 
a good many unsatisfactory results follow. Irradiation 
does not kill the fungus, so that without precautions 
children and their shed hairs are most infectious in the 
month just after treatment. 

As regards school attendance, it will be sufficient if 
children with ringworm keep the hair short cropped, use 
ointment or antiseptic lotions daily, and attend school 
wearing close-fitting waterproof caps. They should not be 
allowed to mix with the others at play, and should be 
detained ten minutes on dismissal. The usual rule, how- 
ever, is to exclude the child whilst ringworm can be 
detected by the nurse ; if this is done the exclusion should 
be rigorous, and the school nurse or doctor alone be allowed 
to pass the child back to school. Medical certificates of 
freedom are not reliable without microscopical examination. 

Mistakes are often made by laymen as to ringworm. 
Alopecia areata is a non-contagious affection where smooth, 
white, shiny, bald patches may be taken for ringworm. 
Scars and marks of injuries on the scalp, or patches of scaly 
roughness seen on the faces of badly nourished children 
in rough weather have at times led to their exclusion as 
ringworm cases. 

Favus. This is a disease also due to a fungus, known as 
Achorion Schonleinii. It is more obstinate than ringworm, 
and before the introduction of irradiation as treatment 



CLEANLINESS 225 

was almost incurable. Cure sometimes follows improved 
nutrition, but the disease may persist through adult life. 
Fortunately it is not very infectious. A boy with favus, 
the only one in the countryside, was watched in a school of 
1,200 children for three years, without any second case 
being seen and no special precautions having been taken. 
In favus the affected hairs contain hyphcs as hollow tubules 
which can be demonstrated penetrating the length of the 
hair. By washing with ether and, whilst drying, mounting 
in a drop of Canada balsam, the microscope shows the 
favus tubules as characteristic black air-filled rods in the 
length of the hair, here and there branching dichotomously. 
A hair with some secretion about it, if mounted in potash, 
shows masses of short jointed cells like knuckle-bones as a 
collar about the outer end of the hair sheath. A mass of 
fungus and exudation grows round the openings of hair 
follicles to form the yellowish favus cup, which, if undis- 
turbed, may grow to large size. It usually, but not always, 
has a mousy odour. Favus occurs in the Northern and 
Scottish towns more commonly than in the South. In 
London it is almost confined to alien immigrants. Fortu- 
nately, it is more objectionable than common, and as every 
case can be cured by irradiation it ought not to be per- 
mitted to exist. 

Cleansing Stations. From the point of view of effect- 
ing cleanliness, cleansing stations, as at present established, 
are in many places comparatively inaccessible and only a 
very partial success. They are Public Health arrange- 
ments worked under the Children Act. The arrangements 
are clumsy, and ineffective except in the worst cases. Until 
cleansing arrangements are simple their effect must be low. 
At present they scarcely touch the real sources of the 
trouble. 

The type of proceedings is under Section 122 (1) of the 
Children Act, which empowers an authorized person to 

15 



226 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

examine any child in an elementary school, and if necessary 
give the parent notice to cleanse it in twenty-four hours. If 
this is not done, Section 122 (2) authorizes the child's 
removal to suitable premises and detention till cleansed ; 
if a repetition of the cleansing is necessary, Section 122 (4) 
renders the parent liable to a fine of ten shillings. 

The school nurse therefore visits a school and examines 
the children, sending to the parents, in a closed envelope, 
warning and suitable instructions as to cleansing any whom 
she finds need it. If no amelioration results a stronger 
notice is sent, and notice of arrangements having been made 
for the child's voluntary attendance at a cleansing station. 
In the case of this being neglected, then a statutory notice 
under the Act is served, and failing cleansing the nurse 
takes the child to the cleansing station and has it cleansed. 
This looks well on paper, but in practice fails to cleanse 
probably four-fifths of children with traces of vermin. 

Such a station should be for children only, and there 
should be a separate waiting-room, a bathroom, and 
sterilizing-room for the clothes. Either a large sterilizing 
chamber is used, or in small centres a simple clothes dis- 
infector consisting of a chamber like that of a copper for 
domestic clothes washing. This is jacketed round by 
another chamber, in the lower part of which water can be 
boiled, and from this steam, entering the sterilizer in which 
the clothes are hung, destroys all life in about ten minutes. 
The steam enters through a three-way cock which can shut 
off the steam from the sterilizing chamber, then connecting 
this chamber with the outer air. It remains heated, and in 
another ten minutes the clothes are dried and ready for the 
child, who meanwhile has been thoroughly scrubbed with 
soft-soap and hot water in the bath. There need be no 
hesitation about cutting the hair of those being compulsorily 
cleansed, as the Act requires that the child, when it leaves 
the premises, must be free from all trace of vermin. It is 



CLEANLINESS 227 

also necessary, especially in cold weather, to see that 
children are detained long enough to cool off after their hot 
bath. During this time it would be a real advantage to 
stimulate each child by giving it a bun and cup of hot 
milk. 

School Baths. Public provision for bathing is not 
abundant, and the want of bathrooms exists in the 
majority of English houses. Indeed, very often with high 
rents the bathroom has to be utilized for storage or as a 
bedroom. Although there is a greater abundance of water, 
yet in respect to bathing facilities the population is behind, 
compared with Northern and Central European people. 
From Roman times, through the Middle Ages till the Thirty 
Years War, when all wood fuel was used up, hot baths were 
so popular in Central Europe that the regulations of many 
colleges and schools dwell on the dangers of cold water. 
For cleansing purposes the shower bath is now preferred, 
as it takes a tenth of the heat, a tenth of the water, and a 
fifth of the time required for an ordinary bath. There are 
manifest advantages in a clean skin, clean school air, and 
clean clothes ; and nowadays the school bath is to be 
reckoned as a necessity from the sanitary point of view for 
every school of a thousand children, allowing each child to 
have one douche at least weekly, if they are to be kept 
free from lice. 

All ideas of public baths to be used at certain hours for 
children have worked out unsatisfactory in practice. The 
cheapest school arrangements utilize the basement for 
shower baths. Swimming baths are taken as luxuries, and 
left out of consideration here. The shower bath as a school 
provision has been thoroughly worked out on the Continent, 
and it is easily managed and kept clean. It should provide 
bathing for at least twenty children simultaneously, and 
have two dressing-rooms, so that when the children of one 
batch are bathing the others may be dressing. A system of 



228 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

centres with simultaneous bathing for forty children is 
provided at Amsterdam. Each child stands in its own cell, 
placed against the wall of the large circular bathroom. 
This system of cells is the one generally adopted in 
England. In other countries the bathroom is generally 
lined with tiles, and has shallow troughs running along the 
floor ; over these are suspended the sprays. The water is 
usually turned on the bathers at about 95Fahr., and slowly 
brought down to 70 Fahr. and for older children to 65 Fah. 
In these bathrooms there are usually ten or a dozen cells 
at the ends for the older girls. Trouble has occasionally 
arisen on the Continent from religious cranks who have 
agitated against common bathing in the schools. Each 
child is provided with soap and towel and should wear a 
small apron sometimes boys wear pants and girls a 
bathing costume ; but the simpler the dress the better. 
Long-haired girls must have caps. The drying of towels 
and costumes requires a large drying oven apart from the 
bathing machinery. Sixty children being bathed an hour, 
one bath just serves for a large school, and it is advisable 
that the bath should be under the same roof as the school, 
and that children should not be allowed to go home for at 
least half an hour after bathing. 

The results of school baths are noticed in better and 
cleaner clothes, in increased self-respect, a distinct diminu- 
tion of vermin, and the comparative absence of that 
restlessness they give rise to in school ; also a marked 
improvement in the air condition and a tonic effect in 
sharpening up schoolwork. 

Bathing is necessary for open-air school children, and 
indeed appears to be even more enjoyed by these than by 
the ordinary children. Another useful feature of bathing 
is that it means half an hour's relief to the child from the 
ordinary schoolwork, which, as the open-air school shows, 
is an undoubted benefit. The bathing under douche 



CLEANLINESS 229 

arrangements can be permitted to almost all children 
except certain heart cases. In the case of swimming there 
is much greater physical exertion, and therefore many heart 
and rheumatic cases should be excluded, also all cases 
excluded from physical exercises, and all children suffering 
from any kind of discharge. Some skin diseases and 
discharges of the eyes might theoretically cause contagion. 
Children who have, or who have had, aural discharge or 
with perforations of the drums should not go swimming 
without the greatest precaution, for in many cases relapses 
are started off afresh, and in several cases gross deafness 
has resulted to good swimmers. 

Danger of Fumes. Small bathing installations, as, for 
instance, a single slipper bath, are often supplied with hot 
water by a geyser heated by gas. Special attention must 
be paid to the ventilation, and the flue from the geyser 
must pass to the outside. Cases of sudden unconsciousness 
in school from inhalation of carbon monoxide gas, either 
from geyser fumes or from slow-combustion stoves, have 
occurred, and even deaths are on record from this cause. 
In such a case as a person becoming unconscious in a 
bathroom, doors and windows must be opened fully after 
the sufferer has been pulled out, and if necessary artificial 
respiration may be attempted for some time. 



CHAPTEE XXI 
SCHOOL ACCIDENTS 

THE extreme utility of " First Aid " to the injured is shown 
by the popularity which the St. John's Ambulance lectures 
have attained. To teachers the knowledge of " First 
Aid " is particularly useful, for, in addition to the numerous 
accidents that occur in connection with school games, 
scholars may occasionally have fits or faints, or haemor- 
rhage. Panic, the result of ignorance, and even injury to 
health and limb, might often be prevented by the applica- 
tion of the simple rules of treatment which will be laid 
down in this chapter. 

It must not be supposed that we are encouraging teachers 
to take upon themselves the sole treatment of serious cases, 
although we may have to describe the treatment of such 
cases in detail. But valuable time is frequently lost before 
a medical man arrives, and it is therefore highly important 
that the teacher should know what to do in the interval. 
Hence a not unsuitable heading for this chapter would be 
" Until the doctor comes." 

Fainting in schools which are ill-ventilated and over- 
heated is not infrequent. The patient should be laid on 
his back, with his head low ; all tight clothing should be 
removed from his neck ; crowding round him should be 
avoided, and, if possible, he should be placed in a free 
current of air, near an open door. Do not attempt to 

230 



SCHOOL ACCIDENTS 231 

pour anything down the throat while the patient remains 
unconscious, or he may thus be choked. 

Fits may occur in school. In boys' schools, epileptic 
fits occur ; in girls' schools, hysterical fits may also occur. 

In epilepsy, during the convulsions, the patient should 
be laid gently on the floor, and prevented from biting his 
tongue, by inserting a cork between his teeth. All tight 
clothing should be removed, and no further attempt at 
active treatment made. 

In hysteria, as a rule, the patient is not quite uncon- 
scious ; she sobs considerably, and is evidently in a highly 
emotional condition. She will not allow the ball of her 
eye to be touched with the finger without flinching, unlike 
an epileptic patient. Hysterical patients should be re- 
moved from the school as soon as possible, as an example 
of this kind is likely to be copied. Their morbid con- 
dition should not be fed by over-attention or indulgence. 

Suffocation is occasionally imminent from a marble or 
cherry stone, or similar substance, being held in the mouth, 
and then suddenly sucked down into the larynx. Such an 
accident is always serious, and a doctor should be im- 
mediately called, the messenger being instructed to tell 
him the nature of the accident in order that no time may 
be lost. In the meantime, the only safe measure is to 
put the finger to the back of the throat, in the hope that 
the foreign body may be reached. Even if it is not 
reached, vomiting is commonly excited, and this may 
dislodge it. The child should not be inverted until the 
doctor arrives, as, if it is not successful, the symptoms may 
be aggravated. 

Apparent Drowning is not an infrequent accident, 
especially in country districts during half-holidays, and 
the teacher should instruct his scholars as to the plan 
to be followed in such an emergency. 

The apparently drowned boy should be placed on the 



232 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

bank, his mouth cleansed from mud, etc., and his tongue 
drawn forward out of the mouth. It is seized by the 
fingers, in which a handkerchief is held to prevent the 
tongue slipping back. A folded coat should be placed 
under his head and shoulders, so as to give firm 
support. Next, the boy's arms should be grasped near the 
elbows by the operator, who stands over the boy, facing 
towards his feet. The arms should be drawn over the 
boy's head, and then pressed down firmly against the sides 
of his chest. This manipulation should be repeated 
regularly about fifteen times a minute, taking care not to 
perform the movements hurriedly. The upward movement 
expands the chest, while the pressure of the arms on the 
chest causes expulsion of air from it. In this way inspira- 
tion and expiration are imitated, and the natural process of 
respiration may in favourable cases be restored. 

At the same time, other persons should secure warm 
and dry blankets and hot bottles, and should rub the 
legs steadily, so as to help the circulation and keep up 
the temperature of the body. The artificial respiration is, 
however, the most important point, and should not be 
intermitted until natural attempts at breathing occur, or 
until half an hour has elapsed without sign of recovery. 

Foreign Bodies are occasionally pushed by enterprising 
children into the ear or nostril. In the latter case they 
can usually be seen and seized by a pair of tweezers, or 
hooked down by a fine wire loop. In the former case 
simple syringing with warm water will frequently wash 
out the foreign matter. If it is a pea, syringing is better 
omitted, as the pea may swell and thus become more firmly 
impacted. 

Minute particles of dust, etc., frequently set up great 
irritation in the eye. Try and invert the upper eyelid, 
and then the speck can usually be seen, and removed 
with the corner of a pocket-handkerchief. If it cannot 



SCHOOL ACCIDENTS 233 

be seen, drop a little castor oil into the eye, keep the 
eye closed and immobile by means of a wet compress 
over it, and, if relief is not obtained in a few hours, seek 
further advice. 

Concussion of the Brain. A fall on the playground, 
most commonly on ice, especially if it bumps its head, 
may render a child unconscious for some minutes from 
concussion of the brain. The face is usually pale and 
cold, and on recovering consciousness the child feels sick 
or may vomit, which is not really a bad sign, as it shows 
that recovery is setting in. Some headache may last for 
the rest of the day, and some days of quiet rest will 
probably be required for recovery. 

Wounds. Where wounds or injuries exist the teacher 
is well advised to seek medical help at once. Wounds of 
varying degree and severity are very apt to occur in con- 
nection with school-life. Abrasions, where the skin is rubbed 
off, are sometimes very painful. In all cases the first 
thing to do is to wash off all dirt or grit with clean cold 
water, dry as well as possible by a gentle pressure with 
a clean handkerchief or linen cloth, bring the edges as 
near to the normal position as can be, apply a thick 
covering of boracic acid powder, place a clean linen pad 
over, and bandage up. 

HflBmorrhage. Bleeding comes from ruptured blood- 
vessels. When the wound oozes with dark blood the 
pressure of a linen pad will probably be sufficient, if firmly 
bandaged on. Arterial bleeding, which is bright scarlet, 
and pulsating or even in jets, requires very firm pressure 
on the bleeding part. If the teacher knows the course 
of the main blood-vessels in the limb, he may stop the 
haemorrhage by pressing his thumb over the main artery 
higher up the limb; but as a rule, he will probably be 
more successful by trusting to a firm pad kept forcibly 
pressed over the wound itself. 



234 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

An elevated position of the limb will help to stop 
bleeding from it, and a flexed position of the joint next 
above the wounded part has a similar effect. Thus, with 
a severe wound in the palm of the hand, apply a pad firmly 
over the wound, bend the elbow, and keep the whole 
arm raised. 

If coughing or vomiting of blood occurs, keep the patient 
perfectly quiet and give nothing except ice to suck, and 
obtain medical aid at once. In bleeding from the nose, 
apply ice compresses to the nape of the neck, and syringe 
the nose out with iced water. If this does not answer, 
put some alum or tannin in the water to be injected into 
the nostril. If the bleeding still continues, a powder 
containing 30 grains of bromide of potassium may be given 
in water, and repeated in half an hour, if necessary. This 
seldom fails to stop the haemorrhage. 

Burns are apt to occur in connection with open fires 
or hot-water pipes. The best immediate application is 
probably a linen cloth soaked in a saturated solution of 
bicarbonate of soda, which very quickly relieves the pain 
and burning. 

The following injuries are most apt to occur in con- 
nection with football, though occasionally from cricket or 
in the gymnasium : 

Fractures are recognized by inability to use the affected 
limb, shortening and alteration in its shape, and a crackling 
feeling when an attempt is made to move it. There is no 
urgency about treating a broken limb before the arrival 
of a surgeon. If it is necessary, however, to remove 
the patient indoors, the limb should first be secured in 
splints, and he should be carried on an improvised stretcher. 
Splints may be improvised by taking long pieces of a 
box lid or an umbrella ; or for small children, brown paper 
folded up so as to be stiff and rigid. 

Dislocations. For school purposes dislocations, which 



SCHOOL ACCIDENTS 235 

are liable to be confused with fractures, may be regarded 
as such until the doctor comes. Sprains and contusions 
where the skin is not broken, but where there is swelling 
and pain, and where there may be blood effused under 
the skin, as in a black eye, are best treated by keeping 
the part at rest, and applying spirit and water or some 
cold evaporating lotion on a thin cloth, lightly bandaged on. 

Serious accidents occasionally happen in cricket or 
football. A Prince of Wales lost his life at cricket, and 
in football a blow or kick over the abdomen may cause 
sudden death, or short of this complete collapse, which 
in some cases requires several weeks before recovery is 
complete. 

Eye Injuries. A wound of any kind about the eye 
may be serious, especially if the eyeball itself is scratched, 
pricked, or cut. In this case no delay must be allowed, 
as such a case may possibly end in blindness from sym- 
pathetic affection of the other eye. 



CHAPTER XXII 
ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

ACUTE infectious diseases are very important, both from 
the standpoint of those responsible for the public health 
and in the teacher's view, because no other diseases so 
seriously diminish the school attendance. Happily, the 
best means which the teacher can employ to bring the 
attendance to a maximum is by co-operating with the school 
medical officer's directions. It is a fundamental mistake 
for the former to imagine that he or she will improve the 
average attendance by hastening the return to school of 
children suffering, or suspected to be suffering, from 
slight attacks of illness, or by allowing the attendance of 
children at school from infected houses. Such children, if 
they attend school, whether in consequence of the pressure 
brought to bear upon their parents by the school atten- 
dance officer or the teacher, or in consequence of the 
carelessness of parents, may become a source of danger to 
classmates, and still may react by further reducing the 
average attendance. 

Infection is Spread by Particulate Matter. It has 
been proved for diphtheria and enteric or typhoid fever, 
and other less known infectious diseases, and although 
not yet demonstrated is equally certain for such common 
school complaints as measles, scarlet fever, mumps, and 
chicken-pox, that infection is transmitted from patient to 
patient by minute living particles or germs, which are the 

236 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 237 

active agents causing the disease, the germs of each 
individual disease having special distinctive characters. 
In other words, these diseases " breed true," the germ of 
scarlet fever, for instance, not producing measles or vice 
versa. These germs may be carried from scholar to 
scholar by direct contact, as when a girl convalescent 
from diphtheria kisses another girl, or when mucus from 
the throat of a child suffering from scarlet fever or 
whooping-cough is coughed into the face of another child. 
This is called direct infection or contagion. They may 
also be carried from scholar to scholar by indirect 
infection. Thus, a lead pencil is sucked by a healthy 
scholar, who two or three days later develops diphtheria. 
On inquiry it is found that another scholar had previously 
sucked the same pencil who had returned to school after 
a week or two weeks' absence from what was considered 
to be a "sore throat" or "ulcerated throat." Similarly, 
sweetstuffs are not infrequently passed from mouth to 
mouth. Other common sources of indirect infection arise. 
Thus, a child sickening with scarlet fever vomits in the 
schoolroom. Although this is cleaned up, some particles of 
infective material occasionally remain, become dry, and 
are then inhaled as dust raised by moving about the room, 
and give scarlet fever to other children. Or more rarely 
a child attending school from a house in which is a case 
of scarlet fever, or diphtheria, or whooping-cough, may 
carry in his clothes the infection to other children at 
school, although he himself remains well. As the essential 
method of communication of disease is the same in both 
direct and indirect infection, it is better to avoid the words 
contagion and contagious as likely to give rise to the 
erroneous notion that direct contact with a patient is 
necessary in order that infection may be transmitted. 

Zymotic Diseases. The acute diseases of importance 
in school are measles, whooping-cough diphtheria, and 



238 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

scarlet fever. Others of less importance are smallpox, 
chickenpox, mumps, German measles, more rarely cere- 
brospinal fever and anterior poliomyelitis (infantile palsy), 
and sometimes in residential schools typhoid fever. 

Whooping-cough, mumps, and chickenpox are dis- 
tinguished as non-notifiable, whilst the others are termed 
notifiable, in that the occurrence of cases of these 
latter diseases has to be notified to the Public Health 
Authority. These acute diseases are also often referred 
to in a general way as zymotic diseases. They have 
certain features in common. They are due to living 
infection conveyed from one person to another almost 
directly, and usually, except in rare cases, the radius of 
infection is not more than a yard or two. In some of the 
diseases, like diphtheria, as has already been stated, the 
infection can be separated and examined ; in others, such 
as measles or scarlatina, its existence is perfectly evident, 
but it has not yet been isolated. 

Each of these diseases runs a definite course ; there is 
the conveyance of infection into the body ; then follows a 
period of incubation during which certain changes occur, 
followed by the "invasion " of the disease which is shown 
by symptoms of illness ; recovery takes place, after which 
there is immunity from any further illness due to this 
kind of infection. This immunity may be transient, as in 
diphtheria, or very lasting, as in measles or scarlatina. 

Mechanism of an Attack of Infectious Disease. It 
has been shown that for a healthy animal a certain minimal 
dose of infection is necessary to produce illness. If the 
individual is reduced in health the quantity required may 
be less. With a very slight dose of infection the disease 
does not develop into pronounced illness, but at the same 
time some changes take place which help later to resist a 
larger dose, and a partial immunity is gained. This 
explains, perhaps, why doctors and nurses and those who 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 239 

work in hospitals enjoy considerable freedom from 
infection. 

With a larger dose of germs, and the usual conditions 
of health, the infection, once it has gained entrance, works 
vigorously, the germs multiply, and produce as a result of 
their activity certain poisonous bodies, toxins, just as the 
body produces its fatigue toxins. This process goes on for 
a time and the cells of the body react to these toxins and 
produce certain suitable cell ferments, called antitoxins, 
which neutralize the toxins, and may even react on the 
germs themselves, destroying them. This process is 
marked by setting up feverishness and illness, although 
that may be slight. 

Thus, in measles there is a period of incubation of 
possibly nine days after infection, during which health 
appears perfect, then an invasion of catarrhal symptoms 
appears, often with nasal discharge and running eyes. The 
child at this stage is extremely infectious and becomes 
feverish and ill; about the twelfth to the fourteenth day 
from infection the rash appears ; this state of health and 
the infectiousness disappear in a day or two. Later a 
branny desquamation occurs, and if the child is again 
exposed to infection it does not become ill. It has gained 
immunity to that particular disease. Sometimes this 
course is not followed : the measles is more violent, there 
is much bronchitis, and rarely the violence is so great that 
the child collapses and dies. The typical record, however, 
is infection by the germs, an incubation period, invasion 
by the signs of illness, period of illness, recovery with 
immunity. 

Immunity and how obtained. This immunity is due 
to the body cells having been educated to dealing with this 
variety of germ, and to a stock of the particular protective 
ferments remaining in the body ready for any further 
invasion by that organism. The immunity varies in 



240 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

amount and duration from weeks to years, according to the 
disease and the condition of the individual constitution. 
For general public health it is important that as much 
immunity as possible should exist among the individuals 
of any community. 

Immunity to these diseases may (1) exist naturally (as 
in the majority of people who do not contract scarlet fever 
when exposed as they are to the ordinary risks of infection), 
or (2) it may be acquired by going through the disease, as 
by practically all who suffer from measles or smallpox, 
or (3) it may be artificially imparted. This last is effected 
either by using a modified infection, as calf lymph against 
smallpox, or by using a vaccine of killed germs with their 
toxins, which stimulate the body cells to produce antitoxin, 
as is done for typhoid fever, influenza, and other diseases 
whose germs are known ; or lastly, the antitoxin itself 
can be used, as in the case of diphtheria or tetanus, and 
if injected early enough and in sufficient dose even puts an 
end to the disease. 

Natural immunity to diseases is very variable : thus 
almost every one who has not already had measles if 
exposed gets it, and the denser the population, and the 
more thorough intercommunication becomes, the earlier is 
the opportunity for infection. In the poorer parts of 
towns measles and whooping-cough are contracted on an 
average before five years of age ; in socially better classes, 
where the child's " orbit " is restricted to its own home, 
or not more than one or two neighbouring families, measles 
is not common till children go out into a wider world at 
seven or eight. In isolated communities measles may be 
escaped for many years. Highlanders who come out of 
their remote glens and enter town life for the first time, 
coming, for example, as policemen, or joining the Army, 
very often within a few weeks go down with measles. 

Scarlet Fever or, as it is latinized, Scarlatina, is a less 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 241 

common disease, and extends to later ages. Four-fifths of 
the community in towns either possess inborn immunity to 
it or have gradually acquired partial immunity, so that 
although probably at some time exposed, they escape actual 
illness from the usual chances of infection. 

Diphtheria is also a disease which the majority escape, 
although no doubt exposed to risk from time to time. 

Both these diseases are remarkable from the widespread 
prevalence of " carriers " of the germs, who suffer no 
inconvenience themselves, and may even serviceably help 
to distribute partial immunity through the community as 
well as actual disease. 

Formerly many violent cases of these zymotics appeared. 
A child with a disease like scarlatina or measles had its 
resistance so lowered that it was also attacked by the 
various septic or dirt germs which produce suppuration, 
so that the tissues of the throat, or eyes, or ears became 
inflamed and perhaps were destroyed by such mixed 
infections. This class of case is getting rarer, as the bad 
cases are being constantly weeded out to go to hospital, 
or as cleanliness is more prevalent. Sanitation also tends 
to prevent massive infection by large doses of the germs, 
and all the commoner zymotics seem to be getting 
milder. 

Beginnings of Epidemics. In school it is important 
to be on the outlook for the first case of these diseases, for 
as seen in the school they may be easily missed. A daily 
examination by the doctor, as actually practised in America, 
would not be worth the cost. To-day a colleague tells me 
of his daughter, aged nine, thoroughly examined one 
afternoon this week. Having told the school doctor that 
she had had a bad cold for two days, she was directed to 
have her tonsils painted. On looking into her mouth her 
father was able to predict a measles rash in a few hours. 
The child had been three days at school in the most 

16 



242 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

infectious period of the disease, had herself complained to 
the doctor of the typical symptoms, and been carefully 
examined, but the disease was missed. 

Measles. This is the commonest school disease in the 
infant department, and in towns is of little importance in 
other departments. It is almost certain to be missed in 
the first case in a district. The symptoms begin about the 
ninth day after infection like a cold in the head, but the 
eyes appear more glassy or watery than is usual with colds. 
In any case a young child with a cold should not be in 
school. In this stage measles is intensely contagious, and 
the child should be sent home at once, the parents being 
warned. Three or four days after the commencement of 
the coryza, if carefully looked for, small dark-red but 
glistening papules, the so-called Koplik's spots, can be seen 
on the mucous surfaces in the mouth, then in a few hours 
the rash appears. It begins as blotchy bluish-red spots in 
crescentic crenate arrangement about the face. This is the 
usual time when the child feels ill and when the disease is 
first discovered, but by this time the worst of the infectious- 
ness is over, and probably in a day or two it goes with the 
vanishing of the rash, although there is branny desquama- 
tion for some time later. 

Rubella, Rdtheln, or German measles, has a somewhat 
similar rash, but which may be as red as a scarlet fever 
rash ; it has no preceding cold, although there may be some 
sore throat or tender cervical glands. A first case may be 
mistaken for scarlatina, but fortunately it is usually a trivial 
and non-fatal disease. 

Scarlet fever, or scarlatina, has been so mild for many 
years that it is frequently missed till the child is found 
peeling in school. These peeling cases, when not compli- 
cated by discharges, scarcely ever give rise to infection in 
the school. The usual time of onset is two to five days 
after infection, and the attack begins with sudden illness, 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 243 

headache, giddiness, vomiting, or what is called a bilious 
attack. The child most commonly has a sore throat, hot 
dry skin, and very rapid pulse. The scarlatinal rash 
generally shows by next day, about the front of the chest 
and wrists, as a fine scarlet rash, which in severe cases 
shows small straw-coloured vesicles the size of a pinhead. 
In a day or two the rash fades, and some weeks later 
the skin peels, coming off about the hands and feet in 
large papery scales. When scarlatina is prevalent, every 
sore throat is to be taken for school purposes as scar- 
latinal, until decided otherwise by the doctor, and, indeed, 
numerous sore throats in a district may appear as pre- 
cursors of unrecognized scarlatinal or diphtheritic outbreaks, 
before the typical cases show themselves. 

Diphtheria. This is a very elusive disease, and should be 
suspected if an infant scholar has a sore throat or tonsilitis, 
especially if the cervical lymphatic glands are tender or 
enlarged. It has not usually the sudden onset of scarlatina, 
but there is often nasal watery discharge and the child 
looks pale and ill. Most children are very pale after 
diphtheria, and the examination of pale children often 
explains a short absence as due to diphtheria. " Carriers " 
are so common that on suspicion of diphtheria in a school it 
is a good rule to test all doubtful cases, that is, children 
who are pale or have nasal discharge, and look for the 
Klebs-Loeffler bacillus. 

Bacteriological Test for Diphtheria. In diphtheria 
the bacillus should be cultivated from the throat or nasal 
secretions. A long platinum wire with a small loop at the 
end is used to remove some nasal mucus, and this is directly 
streaked down one margin of a surface of blood serum 
solidified on the slope in a test-tube. The wire is then 
disinfected in a spirit flame, allowed to cool, and secretion 
from the crypts or surface of the tonsil similarly taken and 
streaked along the other margin. The tube is labelled with 



244 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

the name, covered, and incubated for eighteen hours, when 
it is examined for colonies. The colonies of the Klebs- 
Loeffler bacillus appear as minute opaque, whitish circular 
discs, which look darker in the centre when looked at by 
transmitted light. 

Material from a colony is removed by a wire loop and 
smeared on a glass slide, in the form of a thin film, dried, 
and stained with methylene blue solution ; at the same time 
a second specimen is stained as a control with Neisser's 
stains, which show diphtheria germs as brown rods dotted 
with three or more blue " spores." Toluidin blue as a single 
stain has been more generally used of late years. As a rule 



NOSE. SMEAA. 




FIG. 30. Cultures from throat and nose, made on a 
systematic plan. 

there is little doubt about the nature of the micro-organisms 
found. Often several carriers are found in a school class, 
and on excluding them diphtheria cases may cease. On 
the other hand, where there has lately been an outbreak, 
since subsided, as many as one-third of the children may be 
carriers without there being any actual illness in the school, 
although a stranger coming from a district where there had 
been no diphtheria, to attend the school, would probably 
soon fail, and might suffer severely with the disease. 

School and Infectious Disease. These diseases appear 
most frequently and are most severe in the infants' depart- 
ments. In the poorer districts many mild cases would be 
unknown but for the teachers notifying their absence from 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 245 

school. In one district where, after an outbreak, the course 
of scarlatina was carefully investigated, as it had occurred 
during some months, so that the inquiry did not affect the 
facts, it was found that one-fifth of the cases at school 
had only become known through notification by teachers ; 
similarly, too, in diphtheria, school bacteriological inquiries 
add to the cases found. 

During the school holidays this detection of mild cases 
by teachers and others does not take place, and without a 
knowledge of schoolwork, a superficial inspection or even 
statistical treatment of numbers of cases notified might 
give very misleading conclusions. The weekly notifications 
before, during, and after the holiday periods appear as if 
school attendance played a considerable part in dissemi- 
nating these diseases. More careful study shows, however, 
that the fall does not coincide with the holiday period, but 
actually precedes it. Further study of the migration of 
children during holidays showed an average reduction in 
London of 20 per cent, of the child population. Taking 
this into account, and allowing for omission of cases notified 
by teachers and school officials, the so-called holiday effect 
on scarlatina or diphtheria appears non-existent in towns. 
Again, when holiday effect is looked for in the mortality 
curves of scarlatina or diphtheria, there is no trace, although 
it may be seen in the mortality curve of measles. 

It is interesting, too, that there is a reduction in these 
infectious notifications during scheduling when the school 
attendance officials are busy with clerical work. 

In country districts, where children with slight im- 
munity attend from a wide area, disease may be dissemi- 
nated by school to a greater extent, but the total school 
effect in usually distributing these diseases is probably small 
compared with ill-ventilated homes and crowded sleeping 
rooms. In the heaviest week of diphtheria in London 
during 1909, every case between three and fifteen years of 



246 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



age was investigated as regards school possibilities. Of the 
99 cases, 2 were ultimately found not to be diphtheria ; 38 
did not attend school; for 29 there had been no other 
cases in the department during the year ; in 10 no cases in 
the department within a month and none in the same 
class ; in 15 there had been cases in the department, but 
none in the same class within the month ; and in 5 cases, 
two of whom were sisters, cases had occurred in the same 
class within a month. So that in the week when diphtheria 
was at its worst, and presumably there was the greatest 



No 

SCHOOL 
on 

NOT 
ATTEND 
SCHOOL 



NO 

OTHER 
CASES 

IN 

DEPT 

DORlNCr 



b-lS 



Lcmdcro., 



CASES 

wDepr 

BUT NOT 
mi S/vtE 

CLASS 

WITHIN 

MONTH 



FIG. 31. Diphtheria. 



The high degree of out-of-school infection 
in a city. 



risk of school infection, not more than 5 per cent, of the 
cases of children of school age was traceable to this cause. 
For large cities it is improbable that school infection plays 
any part in more than 10 per cent, of the total cases of 
school age, yet if vigilance will prevent even a portion of 
these, or save any life, it is worth exercising. 

Form of Glass or School Outbreaks. Where school 
infection plays a part, which it does when the proportion of 
children with some immunity is low, the appearance of 
cases of disease takes place in one class chiefly. Thus, in 
measles the usual infant-school outbreak is the appearance 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 247 

of four or five cases, infected from the same source and all 
in one class. On the other hand, where there is consider- 
able immunity in a population, and where the school infec- 
tion is comparatively small compared with outside infection, 
the first cases of the disease appear scattered in different 
classes. In one outbreak of scarlatina the first 17 cases in 
a school were in 15 different classes. The first appearance 
of diphtheria, in a district free for years, was the admission 
to an infant school one Friday afternoon of a four-year-old 
girl. She was seen about an hour after by the writer, who 
happened to be inspecting, and was sent home as she 
looked ill and had an erythematous patchy rash. By 
Monday morning seven cases of diphtheria were known 
among the class in which she was placed, and several 
children died. This was a school outbreak in a district 
where there was no public immunity; in London, for 
instance, where diphtheria immunity has been high for 
twenty years, such an outbreak would not occur. Where 
by continual exercise of the means to be detailed presently 
the school influence in spreading measles is assiduously 
repressed, the appearance of measles in infant schools tends 
to take on the form of distribution found in diphtheria or 
scarlatina, scattered cases appearing in several classes. 

Management of Scarlatina or Diphtheria Out- 
breaks. A school outbreak would be suspected where 
several cases foDowed at a few days' interval in the same 
class, but even here they are often found to be coincident. 
In one outbreak, where each of 51 cases was investigated 
by the writer, the only three in which there were facts 
suggestive of school infection were cases who failed in the 
same school class on three successive days and were the 
cause of the investigation, and yet each was a clear case of 
separate outbreak and not of school infection. 

In both these diseases a slight case of sore throat 
may be the link between two or more typical or severe 



248 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

cases, and it is sometimes possible to work out chains 
of infection where the part played by homes comes out 
strongly. When contacts and sufferers are analysed, the 
percentage of contacts of both boys and girls is the 
same, but except in infancy the percentage of sufferers is 
always greater among the girls, due, probably, not to 
their attractiveness to germs, but to their greater contact 
in the home compared with the boys. The incubation 
periods of scarlatina and diphtheria are two to five days, 
so that sufferers, or those coming from homes where 
there are sufferers, must be forthwith excluded, and the 
names sent at once to the school medical officer. In 
the case of diphtheria, "carriers" can often be detected, 
whilst with scarlatina he can analyse the symptoms of 
children who may appear to have only had trivial illness 
or one or two days of absence. Each case of even a 
day of absence during the preceding three weeks should 
be investigated. 

Management of Measles Outbreaks. Measles is the 
most common and interesting disease, probably one day 
to be as rare among children as smallpox. It was the 
study of measles which has made school closure as a 
sanitary measure as obsolete as quarantine. Formerly 
schools were closed for measles when attendance had 
fallen from 30 to 50 per cent., and as subsequent 
analysis shows, the apparent effect of closure in stop- 
ping the disease was quite illusory. Fortunately the 
immunity conferred by one attack of measles is, for 
practical public health purposes, permanent. Second attacks 
are rare. 

Course of Measles Outbreaks. If the children on 
admission to school are noted as to whether they have 
had measles or not, then in event of an outbreak the 
possible sufferers are also known. Most of the children 
in an infant class who have not had measles, although 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 249 

not ill, will already be infected when the existence of 
the disease is first recognized. The course of an out- 
break is as follows : A child incubating measles becomes 
infectious, say, on the first day of the month, and begins 
infecting classmates; this goes on till the fourth day, by 
which time a rash appears, and the illness, then recog- 
nized, usually keeps him away. The children infected 
on the first to the fourth show no signs for nine days 
from infection. These begin in the period from the ninth 
till the thirteenth, the first signs being those of a slight 
cold, cough, sneezing, and watering of the eyes. These 
signs mostly begin on the ninth day after infection, and 
the child itself is now intensely infectious ; in another 
four or five days, that is, from the fourteenth till the 
eighteenth of the month, the children become feverish 
and the rash comes out. They generally cease to attend 
school. This group of children constitutes the first crop. 
Certain children may still remain who were absent on 
the first three days of the month, when the original 
infectious case was present, or who somehow escaped 
infection then ; but they will probably not escape infec- 
tion by one of the first crop, who became infectious about 
the ninth, and so they, too, begin to sneeze and water 
at the eyes, and finally fail in attendance as the second 
crop, after the twenty-third of the month. Beyond this 
the outbreak in the class is usually at an end. But 
closure to prevent cases after the original case should 
have been from the first to the third of the month, when 
the majority were being infected; as when they were 
becoming ill about the fourteenth, they infected the 
rest two or three days previously, and any closure is 
then too late to prevent a case. 

The chart illustrates an actual outbreak, with the daily 
notifications, and showing the date of closure for three 
weeks insisted on by the Sanitary Authority in spite of 



250 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



representations that such an order would not save a 
single case. Subsequently it was found that the last case, 
infected a fortnight previously, failed a day before the com- 
pulsory closure. 

This series of events is clearest where measles appears 
first after a considerable period in an infant school. To 
start with, there is an infected child present before failing 
with measles ; then twelve to fourteen days later a first crop 



Fie 32. 




KNOWN 

FIQ. 32. Measles outbreak in Hampstead. 

fails, and about the twenty-third to the twenty-fifth day a 
smaller second crop brings the outbreak to an end. 

If the first case is detected, then by excluding all un- 
protected children for four days after the ninth day the 
infected ones drop out, and the remaining ones escape 
infection. Even if practised assiduously there have to be 
many exclusions, and the inflammable material mounts 
up until perhaps two-fifths of the class have not had 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 251 

measles, when an uncontrollable outbreak may be expected. 
A very good rule when measles threatens is to exclude all 
five-year-olds for two weeks and all non-immune children 
in any infant class. 

When several cases of measles have occurred in different 
classes of an infant school, and the district is known to be 
infected, exclusion of children is without useful effect. 
School closure is never called for, and in town schools, in 
other than infant departments, exclusion of contacts is quite 
unnecessary. 

General Considerations. The methods of school treat- 
ment which have been set out for measles, scarlatina, and 
diphtheria are applicable to other diseases. The common 
notifiable and non-notifiable diseases are therefore tabulated 
on pages 252 and 253 in regard to the limit of days to 
which incubation may extend, and the average is given 
in a separate column. A short note against each is given 
regarding attendance of sufferers, quarantine of those who 
are to be placed beyond risk, and attendance of children 
coming from homes where the disease exists. 

In towns where large blocks of dwellings exist, those 
from model or trust dwellings only need to be regarded as 
possibly affected if they come from the same flat or self- 
contained tenement as the sufferer, whereas in houses let in 
lodgings, where rooms are sublet to separate families, the 
whole house should be considered affected, unless the 
separate flats are self-contained, i.e. have separate entrances 
and are provided with independent domestic and sanitary 
conveniences. 

Other Subacute or Chronic Diseases. There are 
certain other diseases and disorders which cannot strictly 
be included as acute fevers, but which are so infectious or 
contagious that they must be considered from the point of 
attendance. Any child who regularly coughs or spits 
should be excluded from school as possibly suffering from 



252 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



00 


* " ' "5 


m 




1 


.iT'i 1 


CO 




n 


~jj & 


2 




a 


^"c3 "S .4 


"** ^ 




o 








i 


*o a,^, 


OH '-' 




2 oj 
o 

<M 


1 ll 


"3 o 
3 

al 




1 


S^ill 


11 

~ a 




la 


^ co ^'S 


3 a 




a 


"** i-"* 3 w 


x >> 




r 




f If 11 


51 

l! 




_o 


o o ^ fl 


-gs 1 







jS O 3 I> 


S - 







o 






**~+ 


<> 

i-l 


S 2 


1 1 I 1 


a 


3*3 

" .2 

to ^ 


Igl 

2 co 


3| 




2 


2 a 

-^ n 


)^- 2 


,3 a 




)q 2 


a 


S * S 


S0> 




O o 


^ 


-a^ s 


o "^ 




*M .2 


S "** 


CJ Pt 


. 




q( a 


^ 1 


|| 


" a 

II 














'S o 

i! 


:-i e^H 


CO 03 


1^1 


II 




B-e 


'S <a 




^3 =o 




I 

PH 


K'-S-fl 

-S S3 

SJI 

_ eS aj 
3 n 
fl cS 


fill 

||i| 


|'|l 

** ea a 






P 


^ 


P 




oSoueAy 


M 





1 1 I 




notjuqnoni 


SS3 


.32 5oo 


1 1 1 








II 


9 o 




i 
i 


B.! 

tl 


cS o> '43 

1 S'jj 


S o g^ -2 

illl|l 




9 N """*' "^ o 


M ^*^^ S c? 


4 




B M CQ 


HH (3^ 





8 

1 

35 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 



253 



CO 

o 

i 

03 

3 



a 



BO 


- CO 00 


CO 


00 CO 


a 


D JS**3 J3 ,2 





*C3 2 ^ c8 


j> 


Is^s ^ ^ 


_o 


** jg 


a 



3 


I*! |i 


"a 
I 


P l! 


is 


I'll ^1 


1 


M *" 


w 3 

Ii 

s <f 

t < CD 


co z3 S 13 i^ 
"SS S "o * 

3*" 1 1 CB *** 

.2 08 o & a 

r& ^j -*s C 


1 
1 

"o -S 


"o a 0" 

1 ^i 






K C 




H 


^3 O CD 


" "* 


S 

W CO 


c 2 | 2 
























1 


| c | -2 .2 * 


fS. 

o 


11 111 


1 


s* *"* ^ 


"o 3 


5* <9 J* d 


aurenh 




O 




-I 


O 




i-H 


CM 


CN 


CM 


(M 








"o 


CIO 

.2 


5 


a 








2 


.3 


g 









60 




a . 






C 





rj 


3 









8 


] 


A 












o$ 






'Eo 


"2 




** -2 






ifl 


^0 


^ 


Q 






B 


"o 


! 


Is 


CO 


CO 




' 


E3 


11 


ifl 



1 


M 


! 


.2 


"fl 

h 


H-2 

og 


i 

C 

M 


1 


M yj 





CO 





a s 




*3 


C 





*o 


|. 


CO 




CO 





60 
C 


C 

*s 




s 






_ 










^ 








,-. 


t? 


C ro 


03 


^ *M 




^ 


^ 





<1 


H 


8&BJ8AV 



iH 


1-1 


CN 


s 


1-1 


4?nhl .SA^d 


O O-* 
rH * iH 


-3SS 


^ O CO 
r-t - (N 


*a 


i-l O C3> 

r-l * iH 








o.lT 


CO 


. . 


O 


1 


cJ 

C3 ' 

JH , 1 Qi 


''2 

0) O 


I'M 


S,^ 

a.2 


s 


r2 O 
CO g 


UM 


i'S'^ 


O ^ <]> 
O O p . 


12 




"^"^ 


) S * p - ' 


- S^ ^-^ 


3 *^ 




^j 


O 


g 


^ 


o 




* 











1 



254 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

pulmonary tuberculosis, which is now a notifiable disease. 
Spittoons, common in Germany and America, are not allow- 
able in a sanitary school. 

Ringworm of the scalp and favus are chronic diseases 
in which there is not much risk of school infection, 
except in residential schools. The most infectious time 
is when a case has been submitted to irradiation and, about 
a fortnight later, the hairs are beginning to fall. All 
sufferers should be excluded until a certificate has been 
given of freedom from infection. Without microscopical 
examination mistakes are easy in chronic and doubtful 
cases. (See p. 222.) 

Scabies, or "the itch," is generally a family disease. It is 
usually seen as pustules or papules about the wrists and 
hands, especially between the fingers. Any suspected case 
must be rigorously excluded for cleansing and cure. 
Children often relapse from insufficient cleansing. Impetigo 
contagiosa or infectious eczema, seen as pustules or sores 
about the face, is perhaps more common in the country than 
town ; all sufferers must be excluded. White precipitate 
ointment should be used till cured, and any towels used in 
school removed. Ophthalmia, blight, acute contagious 
conjunctivitis, "pink eye," may run through a family, but 
should not be common in day-schools, towels then being 
the common source of infection. Excluding the affected 
children and shutting up the school towels for a week is 
usually sufficient. Trachoma is very rare in the elementary 
school, and any sufferer seen is almost always foreign born. 
It is a chronic inflammation of the eyelids and conjunctiva, 
which is likely to require long exclusion. In any doubt 
over these cases the school doctor must be consulted, the 
child being meanwhile excluded unless there is medical 
authority (family doctor) for its attendance. 

Convalescence. In the case of infectious diseases it is 
an advantage to the child itself that it should not have the 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 255 

strain of schoolwork for a considerable period. Formerly 
the Board of Education had an attendance allowance made 
for absence for infectious disease, known as Art. 101* of the 
Code, the removal of which elicited wide protest from those 
who had to do with public health. This premium on 
healthy education has never been reinstated, and the result 
is that children are often brought into school when quite 
unfit to benefit. Although infectivity may have passed, yet 
during and for a week or two subsequent to the acute 
illness the child's powers of nutrition and of resistance to 
disease are seriously impaired. It generally loses weight 
and its growth is arrested. Not only is it unfit, but it is 
likely to suffer some permanent mental loss from early 
resumption of work. Many other infections, either 
zymotics, or mere low forms of inflammation of the eyelids, 
middle ear, eruptions on the head and so forth, may follow 
these illnesses. The sequel of tuberculosis after measles is 
commonly spoken of. It is therefore evident that every 
allowance should be made, and the greatest caution exer- 
cised in receiving a child back to school ; and provision 
should further be made for a medical examination in each 
case, not only to see that the child itself is fit, but to see 
also that it is not still harbouring infectious discharges, 
suspicious in scarlatina, and to be determined bacteriologi- 
cally in diphtheria. Ere long these requirements will 
become financially important as a protection of the insur- 
ance funds now relating to adults. 

School Closure and Disinfection. Much has been 
made of school disinfection by purveyors of material for 
this purpose. Disinfection after cases of particular dis- 
eases is probably a waste of money when it goes beyond 
the use of soap and water in the schoolroom. For measles 
or whooping-cough no disinfection is required, save that, 
in the case of a child being sick, the sooner the offensive 
material is removed and soap and water applied the better. 



256 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

In diphtheria or scarlatina there is no evidence that 
expenditure beyond soap and water gives any value 
proportionate to the outlay. Dr. J. J. Sykes termed school 
disinfection " a sanitary rite of considerable moral value." 
School closure should never be necessary ; it is a confession 
of failure, a throwing up the sponge in the contest with 
disease. The following up of cases, especially of non- 
notifiable diseases, is thus lost. 

Teachers and Infectious Disease. Teachers come into 
consideration either from infection in their own family 
or in themselves. There is a certain amount of profes- 
sional risk for the younger teachers, and sometimes it is 
probable that they have contracted the disease in school, 
but ten times as often the infection is caught beyond the 
school. It would be a safe rule to follow that teachers' 
absences due to disease prevailing at the time in their 
class should be allowed full pay, and the absence should not 
be counted against them, but doctors' bills or any other 
expenses they should pay themselves, as any other member 
of the public would have to do. Whooping-cough and 
diphtheria are probably the most commonly contracted 
from children, more rarely measles and mumps. Discharge 
from the eyelids and even itch or impetigo contagiosa 
occasionally appears to have been contracted through 
carelessness. Eingworm is never seen on the scalp in 
teachers, and only rarely on the face or forearm as a 
circular reddish patch, curable in a few days by tincture 
of iodine painted on, and not likely to cause absence from 
school. The acute conjunctivitis, when epidemic, may 
require absence for one or two weeks. Septic sore throats, 
diphtheria, and scarlatina or other zymotics require absence 
till a certificate can be furnished of freedom from infectivity 
and fitness to resume the strain of teaching. Where a 
teacher has a child ill at home with zymotic disease, she 
should forthwith take other lodgings, and in the case of 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 257 

measles or whooping-cough resume work, but in the case 
of scarlatina only after three days if in good health, and 
for diphtheria only after being swabbed free of the disease. 
A married woman who has a child at home ill with 
infectious disease should not attend school till it is well, 
but if it can go to hospital, then she may follow the same 
rules as for teachers who have taken lodgings. 



17 



CHAPTEE XXIII 
MEDICAL INSPECTION 

FREE access to medical advice and assistance concerning 
his work is as necessary to the teacher to enable him to 
carry it on with complete success as good ventilation 
and sanitary school buildings access for the purpose, 
too, of preventing the spread of communicable diseases, 
and on many points relating to the physical and mental 
condition of the pupils. 

Practical experience has convinced us that too much 
must not be expected of medical inspection at the school. 
Such inspection, however, will effect much if intelligently 
utilized, especially in the direction of examination of tem- 
porary absentees on their return to school. But even 
then, many cases, particularly of scarlet fever and 
diphtheria, may be missed. Thus a child returns after 
four days' absence, having had a slight attack of scarlet 
fever. The rash has disappeared, there is as yet no 
desquamation, and the child himself cannot give an exact 
account of his symptoms during the last four days. Or, 
after a week's interval, a child having had a slight attack 
of diphtheria returns to school. Unless a bacteriological 
examination of the throat is made, the medical inspector 
may easily be misled. The only safe rule, therefore, is 
when in doubt to continue exclusion until further medical 
inspection can be made at the patient's home, and the 
possibility of infection can be more definitely excluded. 

258 



MEDICAL INSPECTION 259 

The difficulties briefly indicated above can only be 
partially met under the present conditions of life, 
especially in towns. Parents earning under 30s. a week 
cannot be expected to call in a doctor for what they regard 
as trifling complaints. Even when a doctor is consulted, 
the parents may be obliged to call in one who gives advice 
and medicine for a fee of sixpence or a shilling, and who, 
to compensate for the smallness of the fee, must see such 
a number of patients that he cannot give sufficient atten- 
tion to each. Still oftener, parents fall into the hands of 
druggists, who diagnose scarlet fever as nettle-rash, 
diphtheria as ulcerated sore throat, and so on. This 
state of matters, as pointed out by one of us, 1 " can only 
be remedied by having medical aid, to a certain extent, 
available for the labouring classes gratuitously in every dis- 
trict, without any implication of pauperism being involved 
in securing its advantages. ..." This will involve a State 
Department of medical aid for free diagnosis, if not for treat- 
ment, in the first instance, at least. The sanitary and school 
authorities would greatly benefit by the adoption of such a 
State system of early medical aid, for no "parents could 
then plead that considerations of expense had prevented 
them from calling in medical aid, and one of the greatest 
advances in Public Health hitherto made would by this 
means be secured." 

This paragraph, written at the opening of the century, 
still furnishes advice to be acted on, which will save both 
the national health and ultimately the national purse. 

The Elementary Education (Administrative Provisions) 
Act, 1907, definitely established medical inspection of 
schools by including in Section 13, under the powers and 
duties of a local education authority, " the duty to provide 
for the medical inspection of children immediately before 
or at the time of, or as soon as possible after, their admission 
' A. Newsholme, Practitioner, 1900, p. 192. 



260 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



to a public elementary school, and on such other occasions 
as the Board of Education direct, and the power to make 
such arrangements as may be sanctioned by the Board 
of Education for attending to the health and physical 
condition of the children educated in public elementary 
schools. Provided that in any exercise of powers under 
this section the local education authority may encourage 
and assist the establishment or continuance of voluntary 
agencies and associate with itself representatives of volun- 
tary associations for the purpose." 

A system of medical inspection has been built up in 
accordance with the schedule issued by the Board of 
Education. The system is neither the best nor most 
economical, but it is the only one allowed. Each child has 
to be examined and returns made seriatim on the schedule. 
The schedule is as follows : 



Schedule of Medical Inspection. 

I. Name Date of Birth 

Address School . 



II. Personal History : 

(a) Previous Illnesses of Child (before admission). 



Measles. 


Whooping 
Cough. 


Chicken 
Pox. 


Scarlet 
Fever. 


Diphtheria. 


Other 

Illnesses. 



MEDICAL INSPECTION 

(b) Family Medical History (if exceptional). 



261 





I. 


II. 


III. 


IV. 


1. Date of Inspection .... 
2. Standard and regularity of attendance 
3. Age of child 
4. Clothing and footgear 

III. GENERAL CONDITIONS. 

5. Height 
6. Weight 
7. Nutrition 
8. Cleanliness and condition of skin 
Head 
Body 

IV. SPBCIAL CONDITIONS. 

9. Teeth . . . 
10. Nose and throat 
Tonsils ...... 










Adenoids 
Submax. and cervical glands 
11. External eye diseases 
12. Vision, B 
>, L 
13. Ear disease ..... 










14. Hearing 
15. Speech 
16. Mental condition .... 

V. DISEASE OR DEFOBMITY. 

17. Heart and circulation . ... 
18. Lungs 
19. Nervous system .... 
20. Tuberculosis 










21. Bickets 
22. Deformities, spinal disease, etc. 
23. Infectious or contagious disease 
24. Other disease or defect . 

Medical Officer's initials 
















i 





General observations 

Directions to Parent or Teacher. 



262 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

The work of medical inspectors of schools largely consists 
in filling up answers to the numerous questions on these 
schedules, and completing forms for treatment, re-examina- 
tion, and other objects arising out of them. There is little 
time for careful observation, and insufficient time to form a 
clear picture of each child as a whole, so that the doctor 
soon resigns himself to noting the isolated signs on cards. 
This does not really matter, however, for the routine work. 
It can be done satisfactorily at the rate of about twenty 
or more children a session, but this rate should not be 
exceeded. The work becomes poor if more than one 
session a day is regularly done. 

The medical inspection, according to the Kegulations, 
must take place during school hours, and, except in rare 
cases, on school premises. In order that the children may 
be seen in sufficient numbers, either teacher or nurse must 
give considerable help. 

The usual routine work embraces children who enter 
school during the year, children of the age eight to nine, 
and children who will leave during the year. A certain 
number of children termed " specials " are examined at any 
age, on presentation by the teacher. 

The teacher having noted the children for examination 
and filled in cards with name, date of birth, standard, 
regularity of attendance, and address of each child, the 
parents are notified of the day and hour of the doctor's 
visit in order that they may be present, and the majority of 
children do have a parent present, at the first examination 
at least. 

The school nurse should previously examine the children 
as regards cleanliness of skin and the condition of clothes 
and footgear, also as regards traces of vermin or contagions. 
She should test the visual acuity of each eye, and weigh 
and measure the child without its shoes. When the parent 
comes up she can further determine the history as regards 



MEDICAL INSPECTION 263 

infectious diseases, of which measles is the only one of 
sufficient importance to be accurately informed about in 
regard to school attendance. 

She prepares the child for the doctor's examination by 
loosing clothes above the waist. Finally, she notes the 
cases requiring treatment and fills up the cards in regard 
to this matter. Inspection is generally arranged for in 
ciassrooms, teachers' rooms, corridors, halls, and at times 
even in cloakrooms or lavatories. A favourite arrangement 
is to curtain off temporarily a corner of the hall ; this at 
least has the merit of affording a reasonable amount of 
light and ventilation. A suitable school surgery should 
now be required as part of every school provision. It is 
needed for medical inspections and re-examinations, for 
nursing work in personal hygiene and cleanliness, and for 
the school treatment, which is the most efficient and 
economical way of managing nine-tenths of the cases 
needing treatment. A good water-supply, a roomy cup- 
board for stock of instruments, dressings, and other 
materials are wanted, and plenty of light. New American 
schools have such a room furnished as the " Nurse's 
Room." 

The actual inspection requires some privacy and quiet. 
The persons who ought to be present are only those who 
can aid the doctor, namely, the parents, the teacher, and 
the school nurse. Except the School Inspectors, who 
should be notified of routine examinations for official visits, 
other persons are intruders on medical work. Without 
performing any useful purpose, time is wasted and one 
is conscious that routine is substituted, as it is frequently 
impossible to pursue an inquiry which sometimes borders 
on the confidential or to give proper advice with lay 
persons present. Apart from time wasted and the dis- 
turbance, my own experience is that irrelevant conver- 
sation is often particularly distracting to the examiner. 



264 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

The nurse must see that the doctor is provided with all 
forms and cards required. Soap, water, and towels must 
be handy, and wooden spatulae, so that there may be a 
fresh one for each child. Set the child in a good light 
facing the doctor, but remember that top light is particu- 
larly bad for throat or dental examination. The children, 
particularly entrants, have to be treated in a cheery, friendly 
way. One of these youngsters frightened to the extent of 
crying may disturb the whole afternoon. 

Having filled in the schedule of inspection, the doctor has 
to decide on treatment. He must report every case which 
can be in any way improved by treatment, yet for many of 
these so reported, if seen in private practice, no one would 
think, in the case of enlarged tonsils, for instance, of sug- 
gesting operations. In such cases, quite properly, the ten- 
dency is, with experience, for the examiners to get slacker 
about recommending treatment, a course which appears in 
annual reports as a comparative improvement in condi- 
tions. Where in the first instance treatment is not done 
through a school surgery, there is greatly increased cost, 
for not one-tenth of the cases requiring treatment are such 
that the expensive services of a hospital are necessary. 
The methods for securing treatment are various. The most 
effective is the American system, where the doctor signs the 
child for treatment, and the method of arranging for this is 
left to the school nurse, the child's card standing on a file 
for the doctor's inspection until the child is presented to 
him as treated, and passed as fit. 

With this arrangement urgent cases are treated at once, 
and serious cases have much pressure exerted, while trivial 
cases are advised, and so on, each case being treated indi- 
vidually according to its requirements. 

A more complicated machinery, peculiar to this country, 
exists in some places, where cases are referred through a 
clerical staff to a school committee, known usually as the 



MEDICAL INSPECTION 265 

Care Committee, who arrange the details for treatment. 
This has arisen out of the interpolation of voluntary 
associations mentioned in the Act. It often works slowly, 
and from the doctor's point of view rather unintelligently, 
in regard to the medical aspects of cases. Ultimately, how- 
ever, although the machinery is clumsy, treatment is 
generally obtained and the case later submitted to the 
doctor for reinspection. 

Simplicity, which is the mark of moral excellence in social 
endeavours, is badly wanted in the existing arrangements 
for medical inspection and treatment. Where treatment is 
required to satisfy public authorities, it should be freely 
offered, or at once additional and costly complexities are 
introduced. A wide view of the administration of the pre- 
sent school services suggests that the official requirements 
necessitate great efforts and cost in the remedying of com- 
paratively trivial defects, whilst scanty opportunity is 
afforded, and little is being done, to seek out or remove the 
causes of these defects, or to directly improve the school 
and its work from the hygienic point of view. 



PART II 
APPARATUS 



CHAPTER I 
SITES AND BUILDINGS 

THE school sanitarian takes into account all that affects or 
tends to affect the health of those who work in the schools. 
On this account plans of new buildings or of any extensive 
alterations should have the approval of both school doctor 
and teacher. Architects tend to rule of thumb, just as 
much as doctors, and it is certainly an advantage to have 
their efforts supplemented from other points of view. The 
idea that the school doctor has merely to cover the statutory 
medical inspection must be at once dismissed, as that would 
be a failure in the chief part of his duty to the community. 
He should be there to do his share in protecting the health 
of those in school against whatever or whoever threatens 
it. The teacher, too, should prepare himself to be able to 
speak on such matters as the structure and furnishings of 
school, the details of educational apparatus and methods, 
the manners and customs of work, with a voice to be 
received not as a mere matter of opinion, but as given with 
scientific insight and clear judgment. 

Site. The site of a school is frequently a matter in 
which the educationist has not much choice. The architect 
will satisfy himself as to its value for building, but the 
choice is too often controlled by the prices demanded by 
property-owners. For the health of the community a 
public authority should be empowered to buy any property 



270 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

required for educational purposes either at the average 
rateable value of the previous ten years or the valuation 
under the Land Valuation Acts. 

Sufficient area for children to develop in has not yet 
been provided anywhere and prevision is strangely lacking 
in this matter. As one travelled in the German Empire 
the first sign of a town was the large school building, 
beyond the advancing line of houses. Some American 
States, in plotting out the areas of towns, are said to have 
reserved one-tenth of the area for educational purposes. 
In the last Eeport (1914) of Victoria, the many small play- 
grounds are deplored, because, when the schools were set 
in Australia, there were plenty of playing-fields around, and 
the day was not foreseen when they would be all covered 
with houses. 

The site area required by the Board of Education Eegula- 
tions is a minimum of a quarter acre for two hundred 
children in elementary schools, but in secondary schools 
two acres for one hundred children, with playing fields in 
addition. These Eegulations seem to overlook the fact that 
the time for education of motor activity is the elementary 
school age. The Secondary School Eegulations throughout 
indirectly condemn the space minima, which in practice 
are maxima, prescribed for primary schools. A school is 
for teaching purposes ; it is very different from a dwelling- 
house, and where choice is to be made the first place must 
be given to educational considerations. Too much weight 
should not be assigned to such things as ground air or 
dampness of site, for so long as the site is well drained and 
the construction of the school is satisfactory, elaborate con- 
sideration of subsoil is not needed. It is, however, im- 
portant to secure an open situation, where there is plenty 
of air and the building will have good perflation and a wide 
exposure to skylight. 

Schools do not require commanding frontages, and front- 



SITES AND BUILDINGS 271 

ages to main roads should always be avoided whilst full 
accessibility of site is secured. 

Street Traffic. The necessity of escaping streams of 
traffic is very important for the younger children. Occa- 
sionally, schools giving on crowded thoroughfares have 
required a barrier rail for some yards along the kerb and 
each side of the gates to protect the thoughtless rush of 
children from the traffic of the roadway. Whilst " Safety 
first" is a good rule to be thought of by the doctor, this is 
entirely a matter for the teacher, who can do most by 
education, through warnings and pictures, to make children 
realize the dangers of illicit rides and street crossings. 

Noise. In towns, main roads and railways are the cause 
of much noise. Double windows cannot be used satis- 
factorily as protection, except in mechanically ventilated 
schools, where they are scarcely desirable. The best method 
is to plan schools isolated by the playgrounds and by inter- 
vening buildings. Even the use of the most noiseless road- 
ways will only partially meet the street traffic problem. The 
play of other children may be disturbing. The proximity 
of machinery in engineering works, saw-mills, or carpet 
beating is against the suitability of a site. Whilst inter- 
mitting noises are distracting, constant noise, even from 
ventilating machinery, is nerve-straining, and attention 
becomes easily fatigued. 

Smells. Objectionable odours may become especially 
offensive in warm weather from dust heaps or stable 
manure, with the attendant fly nuisance. The neighbour- 
hood of destructors, indiarubber or tarpaulin works, tan- 
yards, soap, chemical, or gas works, and slaughter-houses 
or knackers' yards should be avoided in placing a school. 
With certain winds the smoke from near industrial 
chimneys may also cause trouble. Apart from smell, canal 
and river banks have their dangers in the proximity of boys' 
schools. 



272 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Buildings. The impression obtained from an inspection 
of many hundreds of schools is that the Eegulations necessi- 
tate a great expenditure of money which should be better 
utilized. The open-air school movement seems to show 
that progress has been held up by the massive buildings, 
which have soon outlived their usefulness. In England, 
unlike hotter countries, the orientation of the school is not 
a matter of vital importance. Probably the corners to the 
cardinal points of the compass will be quite satisfactory, 
but this can be modified to suit the site. The Regulations 
recommend an easterly rather than a southerly aspect- 
The position with respect to other buildings will be 
influenced by the lighting considerations mentioned later. 

If a school must be built with all the solidity of a many 
storied house, which is scarcely necessary if sufficient space 
is provided, cellarage should be utilized in greater degree 
than at present. Such cellar space should not be deeply 
sunk and can be utilized for dining, bath, and play rooms, as 
well as for storage and administration purposes. This has 
the advantage, by raising them, of improving the natural 
lighting in the schoolrooms above. 

Noise, already referred to in connection with the 
site, is a first consideration in schoolrooms, and every 
possible precaution should be used for its prevention. 
The noise of the city alone is a tax on nervous energy 
which must react on the growing child. Large central 
halls, formerly advocated and educationally useful, were 
often resonant, and high ceilings had the same result. The 
voice of the teacher suffers unduly, and tends to a strident, 
high-pitched quality, often ending in hoarseness or aphonia 
in the young teacher, and producing fatigue and inattention 
in the children. 

Noise is an excuse for closed windows, equally, too, for 
repressing the natural exuberant self-expression of the 
children, a serious educational disadvantage. 



SITES AND BUILDINGS 273 

Smooth wall surfaces of considerable extent cause 
echoes ; so do wood-block floors laid on concrete. Steel 
laths for plastering are mentioned by some writers as 
contributing to noisiness. Double floors with deadening 
material, felt or asbestos cloth, can be made almost sound- 
proof. In one New York school absorbent felt has been 
placed on the ceiling and covered with muslin, on which 
decorated paper is pasted to give it a smooth surface. 
Hair felt is said to be liable to harbour vermin. One of the 
best methods is that of pugging the space between floor 
and ceiling with slag wool. 

Fire-resisting floors should always be used in new 
schools and all doors made to open outwards. The infant 
departments are placed on the lowest teaching floor, and 
in many places slopes are used up to the infants' doors 
instead of steps. For the sake of cleanliness and good 
appearance inside walls should never be left either'in rough 
or glazed bricks, but smoothly finished in plaster or 
cement. Rounded finish to the angles is seen in American 
and German schools, but this seems an unnecessary refine- 
ment and expense. 

Water. Each school requires to be provided with 
drinking-water. In our damp English climate insufficient 
water is drunk as a rule, although children require more 
water than adults, and the water is generally purer than in 
other lands. In America, for instance, in the southern parts, 
water may be pervaded by the hookworm, and in the 
northern parts and in Canada by typhoid fever germs, so 
ttiht one may see enamelled labels fixed with wire on the 
taps in school : " This water is dangerous to drink, whatever 
any one may say.' 4 The only case of double supply in the 
writer's experience in this country was seen on inspecting 
the buildings of an industrial school closed a year pre- 
viously, where a stream ran under the building and water 
was raised through an opening in the cellar for washing 

18 



274 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

floors, separate drinking-water taps being provided from 
the company's mains. Some of the boys, however, drank 
from the stream in the cellars, with the result that the 
school had been closed, after over one hundred cases of 
typhoid fever among the inmates. 

The dissemination of disease, such as diphtheria, is pos- 
sible, although improbable, through school water-supplies, 
and the public drinking-cup in the school playground 
has been condemned. In America, where the public is 
more sensitive, paper drinking-cups seem to be provided 
freely by sanitary authorities, insurance societies, and as 
advertisements. From there also came the " crystal 
spring" drinking fountain, a little bubbling jet of water 
which can be drunk without a cup. It is sanitarily the 
best form, and has been extensively adopted abroad, 
although rarely seen in this country. There should be one 
fountain with jets for direct drinking to every hundred 
children, and although generally placed in the playground, a 
school corridor seems a better place. 

Opportunity for washing the hands is required, separate 
from the cloakrooms ; a place for each twenty-five children. 
This cleansing ought to be insisted on before school meals, 
although one still hears of school feeding centres where 
there is no kind of lavatory accommodation. Probably the 
most sanitary form is a spray not more than a couple of 
inches above the edge of a continuous trough, to avoid risk 
of splashing. Unless towels and soap are provided little 
washing is done. It is bad economy to provide the cheap, 
yellow, smelling resin soap generally seen in schools. This 
is often a cause of cracks and roughnesses of a patchy kind 
about the hands and face in early spring or damp, cold 
weather. The usual provision and renewal of towels is 
inadequate for cleanliness, and when ophthalmia breaks out 
in a school it is chiefly spread by the towels. They require 
renewal daily, one being supplied for every fifty children. 



SITES AND BUILDINGS 275 

Disposal of Waste. The sanitary provisions follow 
general rules which have been well stated by the Medical 
Officers of Schools' Association (Code of Eules, etc., 1915). 

" 1. All the sanitary arrangements of the school 
should be periodically inspected by a competent person, and 
any defect remedied as soon as possible. 

"Amongst other essentials, the following points require 
special attention, viz. : 

" 2. That all foul- water drains should be of iron-piping : 
they must be efficiently ventilated, and cut off from the 
sewer by a properly constructed disconnecting chamber. 

" 3. That all soil pipes be fixed outside the buildings : 
that they be efficiently ventilated and properly disconnected 
from the sewer. 

" That the joints of all soil pipes and soil pipe branches 
be air- and water-tight. 

" 4. That the closets be of a type such as does not allow 
of the accumulation of sediment or of sewer gas. It is 
desirable that closets should be placed in detached or 
semi-detached buildings, efficiently ventilated, and not in 
the basement of the school. 

" 5. That no drains pass under the school buildings, 
unless this be absolutely unavoidable. 

" 6. That, in localities where there is no efficient drainage, 
earth-closets may be adopted, and should be placed in 
detached buildings (vide 4, supra). 

" 7. In exceptional cases, where a cesspool must exist, 
this should be placed no nearer to a dwelling-house than 
50 yards. It must be efficiently ventilated, watertight, 
and so constructed as to permit of its being periodically 
emptied without nuisance. 

" 8. That all waste pipes be properly trapped, and both 
waste and rainwater pipes made to discharge over or 
into suitable gully pipes. 

" 9. That no fixed dust-bins be permitted, but that each 



276 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

day's accumulation of dust and refuse be removed to a 
distance in properly covered pails or metallic boxes, and 
efficiently dealt with. 

" 10. That all drain gullies be kept clear and flushed at 
regular intervals, as otherwise the water in the traps 
may dry up and drain air thus escape. 

"11. That when any sanitary repairs or alterations 
become necessary, they should be carried out under skilled 
supervision, and, unless immediately required, during vaca- 
tion time. 

" 12. That an accurate plan of the drainage and of the 
water and gas or electric light mains should be provided, 
and that a copy of this, kept up to date, should always be 
accessible." 

The conveniences, wherever possible, should have 
separate wash down closets. The oldtime trough closets, 
if properly attended to, may be fairly satisfactory, but they 
should not be tolerated in new buildings. 

The number of closets for elementary schools is laid 
down in the Eegulations as 

Number of Children. Closets for Girls. Closets for Boys. 

Under 30 3 1 

50 4 2 

70 5 2 

100 6 3 

150 8 3 

200 10 4 

300 14 5 

400 18 6 

With boys' urinals in the proportion of 10 feet for 100 
boys. Closets for secondary schools are one for every 15 
girls up to 100, then one for every succeeding 20 ; one for 
every 25 boys, and one stall for every 15 boys. 

Important hints about other varieties of closets, especially 



SITES AND BUILDINGS 277 

in country places, and the disposal of refuse and waste are 
contained in the L.G.B. Memorandum of 1913, which has 
been reprinted in Appendix to the Building Regulations 
for Elementary Schools. 

Cloakrooms. Cloakrooms are probably a common 
means of disseminating vermin. The Regulations require 
4-feet gangways, but they should be 12 or 18 inches wider. 
Only one row of pegs should be allowed for cloaks and a 
higher row of long pegs for hats. They should be 
numbered and the allotted numbers rigidly adhered to. 
The lateral distance between pegs, even for boys, should not 
be less than 18 inches, that given in the Regulations for 
girls and infants. Abundant ventilation and warmth is 
wanted in these places. The use of wood, which harbours 
vermin, should be avoided. Iron and wire frames in 
which warm-water pipes can be placed are preferable. 

The classroom as a school unit will be discussed on 
p. 336, after the factors which contribute to its hygiene 
have been separately considered. 



CHAPTER II 
THE NECESSITY FOB VENTILATION 

THE efficient ventilation of a school is the most impor- 
tant and generally the most difficult problem of school 
hygiene. 

The usual conditions of civilized life, especially of urban 
life, involve many drawbacks. Persons leading a chiefly 
indoor life are never physically equal to those spending 
most of their time out-of-doors, and the continued massing 
together of people in large towns and the crowding of 
families in small, badly lighted, ill-ventilated houses in- 
volves the risk of producing a physically inferior race. 

In the past there has been an unnecessary, and in fact 
mischievous, fear of fresh air. During the last few years 
this fear is happily disappearing. Much of the credit for 
the improved attitude towards ventilation is due to the 
crusade against tuberculosis, for the prevention and cure 
of which it is now known that an open-air life, both during 
hours of waking and sleeping, is indispensable. The 
chapter on the open air (p. 55) gives recent educational 
development of this idea. 

The atmosphere in the open country has the following 
approximate composition : 

Oxygen ..... 21 per cent. 

Nitrogen and argon . . . 79 ,, 
Carbon dioxide (CO,) . . . 0-04 

278 



THE NECESSITY FOR VENTILATION 279 

There are also varying quantities of watery vapour 
and traces of ammonia, ozone, and organic matter. The 
amount of ozone is greatest in country places and at the 
seaside. 

In and near towns certain deleterious gases are found, 
including sulphur dioxide and sulphuretted hydrogen ; but 
the main constituents do not perceptibly vary in amount. 
In the purest country air the amount of carbon dioxide 
is not above 0'035 per cent., and in the towns it is often 
about 0-04 per cent., and this difference is practically 
negligible. 

The essential constituent of the atmosphere for all forms 
of life is oxygen, the nitrogen being inert and acting merely 
as a diluent for the oxygen. During all processes of 
combustion of organic matter whether this takes place 
quickly as in a furnace, or slowly as in our bodies carbon 
dioxide is formed by the combination of carbon with the 
atmospheric oxygen. If all living organisms constantly 
exhaled carbon dioxide, and it were not absorbed in some 
way, the atmosphere would in time contain an excess of it. 
Nature, however, has provided a means for the removal of 
any excess; all green plants contain a substance called 
chlorophyll, which has the power in sunlight of splitting up 
the carbon dioxide into carbon and oxygen, the carbon 
being utilized to build up the plant, and the oxygen being 
returned to the atmosphere. 

The amount of moisture present varies with such 
circumstances as the temperature of the atmosphere, the 
presence or absence of sun, the position in a valley or on a 
hill, the amount of wind, and so on. Low-lying tropical 
swamps are laden with moisture ; the slopes of high 
mountains are dry. On a wet day in summer the air 
contains a much greater amount of moisture than on a wet 
day in winter. The air also contains solid particles, 
consisting of mineral and organic matter blown about as 



280 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

dust, with which bacteria are frequently mixed. The chief 
harmful ingredients of air, both out-of-doors and in schools, 
are bacteria. In towns where dust and soot abound, the 
lungs of the inhabitants become very dark coloured, 
through the inhalation of these small particles. If the 
dust contained only particles of dead or inorganic matter, 
there would perhaps be no great danger from the inhalation, 
although it is certain that the inhalation of some kinds of 
dust particularly that consisting of sharp, hard, mineral 
matter is highly injurious. When, however, dust contains 
pathogenic bacteria the case is very different. The bacteria 
causing consumption are commonly present in the dust 
derived from the expectoration of people who are suffering 
from this disease. In the towns it is in the dry, dusty 
weather that attacks occur of what are known as common 
colds ; and when we consider the constitution of town dust 
this is not surprising. Solid particles, however small they 
may be, are heavier than the air, so that when the air is still, 
dust and bacteria are present only in small quantity, and 
only for a few feet above the level of the ground. The 
higher we ascend the purer the air becomes. New York 
skyscraper hotels advertise rooms "above the dust and 
insect line." With a fairly strong wind the dust is blown 
about, and then is found at a considerable height. When 
rain occurs these small particles are washed out of the air, 
which then contains no dust and therefore no bacteria. 

The Effect of Respiration. Each time we inhale we 
take about 30 cubic inches (about three-quarters of a pint) 
of air into our lungs. The air enters the windpipe 
(trachea), passes down it and its branches (bronchi and 
bronchioles) into the infundibula or terminal air-cells of the 
lungs. These air-cells are lined with a very fine membrane, 
which easily permits of interchange of gases between 
the blood in the thin-walled blood-vessels around the 
air-cells and the air in these air-cells. If the air-cells were 



THE NECESSITY FOR VENTILATION 281 

spread out the lining membrane would occupy a space of 
many square yards; there is therefore a very large area 
from which the blood-vessels can absorb oxygen and into 
which they can discharge carbon dioxide. The result of 
this interchange is that the expired air differs very markedly 
from the inspired air. 

Expired air contains only about 17 per cent, of oxygen, 
or 4 per cent, less than fresh air; and although under 
moderate conditions of crowding the air in a schoolroom 
might be rebreathed many times, the percentage of oxygen 
would not fall to such an extent as to render air irrespirable 
from lack of oxygen or increase of carbon dioxide until long 
after it had become insanitary from other causes. In 
expired air the proportion of carbon dioxide is about a 
hundred times as great as that stated (0'04 per cent.) for 
outside air. 

Extraneous Impurities in Rooms. Besides the im- 
purities caused by breathing, certain other impurities in 
relation to respiration must be considered here. These 
arise from two sources : the stoves used for heating purposes, 
and gas used for illumination. When stoves are used they 
are sometimes overheated to such an extent that the iron 
may be made red hot; under these circumstances carbon 
monoxide (CO) may pass into the room through the iron. 
This gas is inodorous, and therefore gives little warning of 
its presence. It is exceedingly dangerous, and, as stated on 
p. 229, may cause death even in small quantities. It com- 
bines with the haemoglobin in the red corpuscles of the 
blood, and thus prevents the blood from carrying oxygen 
to the tissues. Short of fatal symptoms, carbon monoxide 
produces giddiness and headache, and impairment of the 
general health ; in frequent exposure, even minute quantities 
produce great anaemia. 

The products of combustion of coal gas are carbon 
dioxide (C0 2 ), water, and small quantities of sulphur dioxide. 



282 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

The last named is distinctly poisonous, and in the small 
quantities in which it is formed in a room by the burning of 
two or three flames may produce a feeling of tightness in 
the chest. Coal gas is frequently mixed with " carburetted 
water gas," containing 30 per cent, of carbon monoxide as 
against 6 or 7 per cent, in coal gas. With this mixture an 
escape of gas is fraught with serious dangers to life, com- 
pared with ordinary coal gas. 

Alveolar Air. It is not variation in the composition of 
the outer air which is of importance to the blood, but the 
composition of the air in contact with it through the 
walls of the alveoli or air-cells of the lungs. This alveolar 
air has a remarkably constant composition, with about 6 per 
cent, of carbon dioxide, a quantity only slightly increased 
by violent exercise. Haldane has shown that the carbonic 
acid content of the outer air does not affect the proportion 
in the alveoli, and that carbon dioxide in the air breathed, 
far beyond what is met with as respiratory impurity, is 
without determinable effect on the organism. 

The oxygen of the air, too, can be diminished to 12 or 
13 per cent, of an atmosphere, again far below what is 
ever met in any school problem, without determinable 
effect physiologically. 

Smell. Various odorous substances of a volatile nature, 
chiefly from decomposition of materials about the teeth, 
skin, or intestinal canal, from soiled clothes, or unwashed 
skin or feet, occur in school air. Their psychical effect is 
strong at first, but to those remaining in the air is soon 
scarcely noticeable. Probably these materials account for 
the theory that there is an effluvial or crowd poison in 
respired air, of a subtle and poisonous nature. It is too 
subtle, however, to isolate, and experimental evidence makes 
it doubtful that any such specific poisonous emanation 
exists. 

Ozone has been advocated as a purifying agent for air, 



THE NECESSITY FOR VENTILATION 283 

but in any strength which is not harmful to the mucous 
membranes it is too weak to do more than mask the smells. 

Expired air is sterile as regards micro-organisms, although 
school air contains numerous germs, especially from the 
clothing of the younger children, and from droplets sprayed 
about in coughing, sniffing, and speaking. Infection through 
the expired air is limited to a comparatively short distance 
as a rule, and more due to this sprayed material than to 
genuinely air-borne germs. 

Carbonic Acid Index. As each individual gives off, on 
an average, 0*6 cubic feet of carbon dioxide hourly, and as 
it was assumed that air for breathing should not contain 
more than 6 parts in 10,000, the outer air containing 4 parts, 
it is evident that to keep air down to this level of carbon 
dioxide each individual would require 3,000 cubic feet of 
fresh air hourly. On this assumption the amount of carbon 
dioxide present became a valuable index of respiratory im- 
purity, and its accurate quantitative determination of great 
importance. 

It is now known that this carbonic acid index is only 
useful as an index of physiological deterioration of the air 
so long as the various factors of temperature, humidity, and 
movement of air vary proportionately. This is rarely the 
case. The value of accurate estimation of carbonic acid 
present has therefore decreased. 

For regular investigations Haldane's apparatus is generally 
used, and is described in text-books of general hygiene. A 
simple comparative method, requiring no fine measurements 
beyond using a burette, modified from the method devised 
by Pettenkofer, can be improvised by those who only 
occasionally wish to determine the carbonic acid in school 
air in terms of that present outside. A Winchester quart 
bottle of whitish glass is filled with air in the playground 
or on the school roof. For this purpose a bicycle pump used 
for a few minutes will give an average sample. A few c.c. 



284 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

of phenolphthalein solution is then run into the bottle 
to serve as an indicator; from a burette several c.c. of a 
weak baryta solution, of strength about 0'5 gram to the litre, 
are added till the solution is reddened ; the stopper is then 
inserted into the Winchester and it is shaken till the colour 
goes; more baryta solution is again added and the bottle 
again shaken. When enough baryta solution has been 
added to permanently colour the fluid in the bottle, the 
number of c.c. baryta solution added from the burette can 
be taken as the standard for outside air. The numbers 
similarly found for air pumped in at different times or 
places in the school gives their comparison with the outer 
air. With several Winchesters and a burette for each, and 
also a relay of boys to shake the bottles, determinations 
can be made for the changes in air every ten minutes if 
desired. The experimental errors in this method would be 
rejected by the analytical chemist, but it is accurate enough 
for the purpose and gives quite concordant results. It was 
the method used nearly twenty years ago in the observations 
on which Pig. 43 was based. 

A method known as Angus Smith's, dependent on the 
largest bottle in which a half ounce of lime-water may be 
shaken without becoming milky, is not practically convenient. 

So far the function of air as material to be breathed has 
been dealt with, and it may now be said that, generally 
speaking, any chemical alterations likely to be met in 
school air are hygienically unimportant. 

Humidity and Temperature. Expired air is also moister 
and warmer than the outer air, through a certain amount of 
water vapour and heat given off by the nasal and bronchial 
passages. It is important to attend to humidity, or the 
proportion of moisture in the air, and to its temperature. 
Corresponding to the carbonic acid produced by the pro- 
cesses of living there is also produced a quantity of heat 
and water. Just as the carbonic acid has to be got rid of, 



THE NECESSITY FOR VENTILATION 285 

or it stops the supply of oxygen, so also the heat must be 
removed, or the chemical changes of metabolism are inter- 
fered with and serious symptoms appear. These symptoms 
of heat retention, resembling a kind of poisoning, include 
breathlessness, faintness, sweating, and feelings of ex- 
haustion. 

Fliigge's Observations. The cause of origin of these 
well-known symptoms was cleared up by Fliigge, who used 
an air chamber, and showed that ventilatory discomfort 
was due to heat, moisture, and absence of movement of air 
in contact with the skin. A student breathing very foul 
and offensive air in the air chamber felt quite comfortable 
whilst his body outside it was exposed to the outer fresh 
air ; when reversed, with his head in the outer air and his 
body exposed to the hot offensive air used up by respiration 
in the air chamber, the discomfort from want of ventilation 
was extreme, although breathing the pure air. This dis- 
comfort was relieved when the hot air of the experimental 
chamber, otherwise unaltered, was set in motion by an 
electric fan. 

Ventilating Function of Air. Air has therefore a 
function apart from respiration, which may be distinguished 
as ventilation. Whilst respiration is conducted through the 
lungs and embraces the chemical changes of carbonic acid 
for oxygen and loss of some aqueous vapour and heat, 
ventilation is mainly conducted through the skin, by which 
five-sixths or more of the heat and much aqueous vapour 
is dissipated. Neglecting the fractional portion of heat and 
aqueous vapour lost in expired air, the main channel of 
heat removal is by the air passing over the surface of the 
skin. The amount of ventilation in a room where the 
best possible air supply of 3,000 cubic feet hourly is 
obtained, is small compared with that got outside. The 
average rate of movement of winds in this country is 
10 feet a second, or about 7 miles an hour. If the surface 



286 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

which a man exposes to this average wind is 6 feet by 
a foot and a half, that is, 9 square feet, then 90 cubic 
feet flow over him in a second, and 324,000 cubic feet in 
an hour; that is, 108 times as much as with the best 
indoors ventilation. 

The quantity of heat the child has to part with as a 
result of the ordinary processes of living may be taken as 
300 British Thermal Units an hour, the B.T.U. being the 
amount of heat required to raise a pound of water one 
degree Fahrenheit. 

This heat can pass off in several ways, but it is chiefly 
in heating the layer of air next the skin, and in heat which 
becomes latent, large quantities disappearing as sensible 
heat in converting a certain amount of moisture of the 
skin into vapour which passes off in this film of air. The 
heating of this layer of air lightens it by causing it to 
expand, so that it tends to rise. The taking up of aqueous 
vapour does this still more, as the aqueous vapour displaces 
a part of the air and yet only weighs five-eighths as much. 
Still, the movements of the body and of the air itself are 
more important in keeping up fresh supplies than the 
lightening effects of heating and moistening which it under- 
goes through contact with the skin. 

It is important that the skin itself is not cooled too 
much, or the abundant nerve supply to the skin causes 
discomfort from chill. Chilly feelings are largely a matter 
of habit and custom. The discomfort can be prevented by 
radiant heat falling on the skin from the surroundings, 
warmed walls and furniture, and by clothes preventing 
rapid loss of sensible heat. The great problem of school 
ventilation is to remove 300 B.T.U. of heat hourly from 
each child without materially or rapidly cooling the surface 
of its skin. There should therefore be sufficient heat 
taken up in slightly heating the moving film of air, and 
disappearing as latent heat of evaporation in the moisture 



THE NECESSITY FOR VENTILATION 287 

taken up by this film. The film of air in contact with the 
skin, for efficient ventilation, must therefore be as cool as 
can be borne, and dry enough to just take up all the 
moisture the skin imparts; this requires it also to be in 
constant movement, or it would speedily be locally saturated 
and heated. Sufficient radiant heat must be supplied to 
keep the superficial nerve-endings in the skin from feeling 
chilled by lowering of temperature. This is only satisfac- 
torily accomplished by cool, moving air, and by having a 
separate provision for the supply of radiant heat. It is 
possible now to understand the qualities of freshness asso- 
ciated with country air : they are coolness, moderate dryness, 
and movement. These are the qualities wanted in the 
schoolroom. Given these three qualities, the other matters 
of chemical composition are unimportant. 
These qualities are estimated as 

(a) Temperature. In English schools this is invariably 
measured by Fahrenheit scale. Actual measurements show 
that in this country children work best at temperatures 
between 55 Fahr. and 60 Fahr., although on the 
Continent rooms are generally hotter, and in America 
68 to 70 Fahr. are prescribed, as in the New York and 
Boston Regulations. 

(b) Moisture. The moisture is easily calculated by 
means of wet and dry bulb thermometers. These are two 
ordinary thermometers fastened side by side upon a stand. 
Around the bulb of one a small piece of muslin about 
one and a half inches long is fastened and dips into a small 
vessel of water below the bulb. The muslin absorbs water 
and so moistens the bulb of the thermometer; the water 
evaporates from the bulb and thus abstracts heat from the 
bulb and mercury. The mercury in the wet bulb, being 
thus cooler than that in the dry bulb, registers a lower 
temperature. If the air in the room is dry, evaporation 
takos place quickly, and a correspondingly large amount 



288 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



of heat is absorbed from the mercury, and the difference 
between the two temperatures is considerable. If the air 
is already saturated with moisture, no evaporation can take 
place and no heat is abstracted from the mercury; the 
readings of the two thermometers are therefore identical. 
The nearer the reading of the wet bulb thermometer is 
to that of the dry bulb, the more moisture is present in 
the air. 




FIG. 33. Dry and wet bulb thermometer. 

As a rule there should be a difference of between four 
and five degrees Fahrenheit between the two thermo- 
meters. 

The temperature of the room being kept between 56 Fahr. 
and 60 Fahr. the best temperature efficient ventilation 
will keep the reading of the wet bulb thermometer between 
51 Fahr. and 55 Fahr. 

The correct reading of the instrument is aided if it is 



THE NECESSITY FOR VENTILATION 289 

hung by a cord and swung about in the air for some time 
before taking the reading. 

Haldane has shown the great importance of temperature 
and humidity, and that for workers in deep mines, where 
these factors become considerable, continuous work is almost 
impracticable with a wet bulb temperature of 78 Fahr., 
and impossible when this reaches 88 or 89 Fahr. 

(c) Motion. Movement of the air is measured by an 
anemometer. This little instrument consists of a delicate 
fan with an index counter to show its revolutions, and is 
empirically graduated to read the rate of air current in feet 
per minute. In measuring the flow through an open 
window or doorway, the anemometer has to be systemati- 
cally moved about over all parts of the opening equally, 
as the air current varies greatly in different parts of the 
opening and the instrument must be used to get an average 
reading for the whole. Greater accuracy is obtained if the 
mean of three separate readings is adopted. 



19 



CHAPTEB III 
NATURAL VENTILATION 

IT has already been seen that for ventilation a supply 
of cool, moderately humid, moving air is requisite. Air 
which has served its physiological purpose in respiration 
or ventilation is spoken of as vitiated, but this term should 
not be taken to connote the existence of any special 
poison, or impurity, or excess of carbon dioxide from 
respiration, but merely to refer to the function of the air, 
so that in this sense it is as justifiable to speak of hot air 
as vitiated as to use the term " vitiated " for air which has 
been modified by respiration. 

In order to ventilate a room there must be provided 
(1) openings by which the air may enter ; (2) openings by 
which the air may pass out ; (3) a " head " or motive power 
which shall cause the air to enter the inlet openings and 
to pass out of the outlet openings. The adequacy of the 
supply of air for the purposes of ventilation depends upon 
the provision and due proportion of these three requisites. 
The quality of the air, as already seen in respect to its 
taking up heat and moisture, is also a requisite which until 
recent years was almost overlooked. 

When special apparatus for producing motive power 
is used to propel or exhaust air, the system of ventilation 
thus obtained is termed artificial. When, on the other 
hand, advantage is taken of forces already existing in 
nature without modification to produce the head required 

390 



NATURAL VENTILATION 291 

for ventilation, the system is termed a natural one. The 
latter only is considered in this chapter. 

Air obeys the physical laws governing gases. It expands 
on heating ; contracts on cooling ; hot air rises to the top 
of a room and cold air descends to the floor; in flowing 
through pipes it is retarded by bends producing eddies, 
and by the friction caused by contact with rough surfaces. 
The influence of friction upon the passage of air is insuffi- 
ciently appreciated, the builder frequently being allowed 
to line the ventilating shaft with rough bricks without 
even dressing the mortar, leaving it to protrude into 
the shaft. 

Natural ventilation is produced in three ways : by diffu- 
sion, by convection, and by perflation. 

Diffusion is the property possessed by a gas whereby 
it tends to spread'itself equally throughout a space in which 
it is confined. If a heavy gas, such as carbon dioxide, be 
placed in the bottom of a jar and in the top a light gas, 
such as hydrogen, the two gases will after a time completely 
mix, the proportion of each in every part of the jar 
becoming exactly the same. This process is, however, 
slow, and is one which, in all problems of ventilation, may 
be neglected. 

Convection. When fluids or gases, such as air or water, 
are exposed to heat, the small portions in contact with the 
source of heat are first warmed by conduction. These 
portions, being lighter, ascend through the overlying strata, 
and in passing give up their excess of heat by conduction 
to the particles with which they come in contact. This 
movement of heated particles is known as convection. 
Not only do the currents thus produced mix the air in the 
interior of rooms ; they also cause an exchange between 
the outside and inside air. In an occupied room currents 
of air pass upwards from each person, first, because each 
person expires warm air, and secondly, because his body, 



292 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



being warmer than the external air, imparts heat to those 
particles in close proximity to him. As the warm air rises 
it warms the air above, and fresh air from the lower 
strata takes its place. When the warm air reaches the 
cold ceiling it imparts heat to it and becomes itself cooled. 
Being colder than the air just below it, it descends, and in 
descending becomes warmed. Were there no ventilation, 
interchange would go until the temperature of the ceiling, 
walls, and furniture approximated to that of the occupant 




FIG. 34. Showing convection currents from occupant 
of room and gas. 



of the room. In an ordinary room the currents are up- 
wards in the centre and downwards in the vicinity of the 
walls. The windows are generally cooler than the air 
in an occupied room, and therefore the air in their 
immediate neighbourhood is generally descending. 

Soon the air in an occupied room becomes warmer than 
the external atmosphere, and convection currents are set 
up between the air inside and outside. 

The velocity of exchange will depend upon (1) the 
difference between the temperatures of the inside and 






NATURAL VENTILATION 293 

outside air, and (2) the difference between the height of 
the inlet and outlet. The amount of exchange will depend 
upon the velocity of exchange and the size of the openings. 
The velocity is calculated by means of the following 
formula : 

V = *J%gx(t l t 2 ) af feet per second, 

where g is the acceleration of gravity and may be taken 
as 32. 

x is the difference in height (in feet) between the inlet 
and outlet. 

t l is the temperature of the air inside. 

t 2 is the temperature of the air outside. 

a is the coefficient of expansion of the air at t 2 . 

f is the coefficient of friction, and is generally assumed 
to be 0-75, although for a window this is probably excessive. 

This formula is, however, only theoretically correct where 
there is an actual head caused by a shaft, chimney, or duct 
of height x, otherwise the height must be ignored, and 
just the temperature difference taken into account. If this 
is done, suppose an actual example : the temperature of the 
air in a school is 65 Fahr. ; that of the outside air is 50 
Fahr. The upper opening of a ventilating window is 10 feet 
from the floor and the lower 4. According to the formula 
this would work out about 2*9 feet as the velocity of ex- 
change, but in practice, ignoring x, it works out as 



x/2 x 32 x 15 x y&s- X -75 = 1-2 feet. 

The coefficient of expansion of gases, taken here as ^fa, is 
for the temperature 50 Fahr." 

* Gases expand T i T of their volume at 32 Fahr. (freezing-point) for 
every degree that they are heated. The absolute zero of temperature is 
therefore said to be 491 below freezing-point. In order to find the 
coefficient of expansion of air at any temperature, it is only necessary to 
add to 491 the difference between the observed temperature and 32, and 
place this number as the denominator of a fraction which has unity as 



294: SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Hence the outlet in a natural system of ventilation should 
be placed as near the ceiling as possible, and windows 
which extend to the ceiling will be more efficient ventilators 
than those which do not. The working of all outlets or 
inlets by natural effects is very variable and entirely de- 
pendent on wind and temperature. Theoretically, the 
inlets should, when natural ventilation is in operation, be 
as low as possible. In practice, however, this plan cannot 
always be adopted ; if the inlets are placed at the level 
of the floor the cold fresh air, being heavier than the 
warmer air, runs along the floor. The scholars' feet are 
therefore exposed to a constant current of cold air. For 
this reason arrangements are often made, as by Tobin's 
tube, to allow the air to enter about 5 feet from the floor ; 
directly it enters the room it falls towards the floor, and 
thus mixing with the room air is warmed before reaching 
the floor. 

The amount of fresh air entering a room depends upon 
two factors, (1) the velocity of the air entering or leaving, 
and (2) the size of the inlets and outlets. 

In order to allow for contingencies, at least 72 square 
inches should be given, i.e. J square foot for inlet and 
square foot for outlet, for each child. The outlets should 
be as near the ceiling as possible, and the inlets about 
5 or 6 feet above the floor. As far as possible both inlets 
and outlets should be distributed over the walls of the 
schoolroom. Thus five inlets, each of 5 square feet, 
distribute fresh air more uniformly in a room than one 
inlet 25 square feet in area. This is subject to the general 
law that the friction of air passing through openings is 
inversely to the diameter of the openings. 

the numerator. In the example the temperature 50 Fahr. is 18 above 
82. The coefficient of expansion of air at that temperature is thus 

1 J^ 

491 + 18 ~ 509" 



NATURAL VENTILATION 295 

To minimize down draughts the opening of each inlet 
is guarded by a flap fastened to its bottom and allowed 
to fall forward, so that the incoming air is given an upward 
direction. 

Perflation. Although much time has been spent in 
describing the part which convection plays in ventilation, 
it is upon perflation or cross ventilation that an efficient 
natural system chiefly depends. Owing to convection 
currents the external atmosphere is nearly always in 
movement, producing winds. When the wind impinges 
against one side of a school, the whole of the elaborate 
arrangements for the ventilation of the room by convection 
may be upset, the openings upon the windward side 
becoming inlets, and those upon the leeward side outlets. 
With a mild breeze (about two miles an hour) perfla- 
tion is insufficient to ventilate the room, and yet the 
operation of inlets and outlets of air for convection is 
disordered. 

The ventilation of a school by perflation cannot be 
solely trusted, because the force and direction of the wind 
cannot be controlled. Arrangements should, however, be 
made by distributing openings as much as possible in 
every outside wall, so that in whatever direction the wind 
blows some of the openings will act as inlets and some as 
outlets. It is with a view to ventilation by perflation 
that it is advisable to have any subsidiary light on the 
right of the scholars (p. 338). 

Ventilation by perflation is necessarily applicable only 
to a certain extent. If the wind is not of sufficient force 
perflation does not occur, for although the wind may enter 
the openings on one side, it does not possess sufficient 
impetus to drive the air in the room through the ventilating 
openings for exit of foul air on the opposite side of the 
room. For perfect perflation to take place the wind must 
be blowing at the rate of six miles an hour, and at right 



296 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

angles to the walls containing the openings. If the wind 
be not blowing at right angles to the wall containing the 
openings, a greater rapidity of current is necessary ; and 
the more nearly parallel the direction of the wind is to the 
wall, the greater must be the rate of movement of the 
wind. 

Thus, although under favourable circumstances a school- 
room can be ventilated by taking advantage of currents 
of air in the school and outside, in actual practice but 
little ventilation takes place during the greater number of 
the days in each year, owing to winds blowing in the 
wrong direction or with insufficient force, unless both 
windows and doors are kept open. 

In recent years many schools have been planned 
so that perflation may be aided in all the rooms, by 
having large windows with hopper inlets on each side 
of the room. Still more recently, the logical outcome of 
the open-air school, are schoolrooms the whole of one side 
opening to verandas, and in some new schools in Derbyshire 
a run of clerestory windows is also provided on the other 
side, opening freely for cross-draughts. 

From the preceding considerations it is clear that the 
maximum bonum in natural ventilation, unless both windows 
and doors are wide open, is the dilution of used with fresh 
air; while, as we shall see later (p. 311), the maximum 
bonum of artificial ventilation is the steady replacement 
of used by fresh air. 

Hitherto no mention has been made of heating the 
schoolroom, and the effects of this upon natural ventilation. 
An open fireplace is a powerful aid to ventilation, and will 
be spoken of later. Some schools are warmed with hot- 
water pipes, employed solely for heating. These pipes, as 
well as open fireplaces, may, however, be made valuable 
adjuncts in ventilating a schoolroom. 

In Fig. 35 the chimney has built alongside it separate 



NATURAL VENTILATION 



297 



flues* for carrying off foul air from each room. A is the 
smoke flue ; as the hot smoke flows to the top of the 
chimney the independent vitiated air flues B become 
warmed and the air of them begins to flow upwards. 

No mention has as yet been made of the actual con- 
struction of inlets and outlets. There should be several 
inlets and outlets. The actual number and size of the 
openings must be regulated by the number of children 
who will occupy each room, allowing half a square foot 




FIG. 35. (1) Elevation ; (2) section of double flue. 

of sectional area of opening for inlet and the same amount 
for outlet for each child. 

The simplest form of inlet or outlet is a hole through 
the wall at right angles to its surface. This must be lined 
with smooth cement to diminish friction for the incoming 
air and to aid cleansing. Its outer end is protected by a 
grating. The size of the inlet is gauged by the free 

* From the diagram it may be inferred that there is only one vitiated 
air flue. In actual fact each vitiated air flue, like each smoke flue, must 
be carried up to the top of the chimney stack separately from all other 
flues if back currents are to be avoided. 



298 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



air-space of the grating and not by the size of the entire 
aperture. The grating must be both safely fixed and easily 
movable, as it requires to be cleansed at frequent intervals 
and the accumulated dust removed. 




Pia. 36. Tobin's tube and outlet ventilator through ceiling. 

The inlet may have one of several contrivances at its 
inner end to direct the current of air upwards and across 
the room. 

Special arrangements or apparatus for assisting ventila- 
tion are extremely common. The following are a few of 
the better-known forms : 

Tobin's Tubes. These allow fresh air to be taken from 
at or below the level of the floor of the room and discharged 
into the room 5 to 7 feet above the floor. The cold fresh 
air, receiving by this means an upward direction, enters 




FIG. 37. Sheringham's valve. 

the room and mixes with its impure air without causing 
much perceptible draught. The tube should be circular 
in section, and the angle between the external aperture 
and the vertical tube as obtuse as possible (Fig. 36). 



NATURAL VENTILATION 



290 



As already indicated, Tobin's tubes are not always reliable, 
and likely to fail when wanted most, as on a hot summer 
day without much wind. 





FIG. 33. Boyle's mica flap outlet ventilator. 
a, View from room ; b, view from chimney. 

Sheringham's YalYe is an arrangement by which the 
flow of air through the opening in the wall can be 
regulated at will (Fig. 37). 

Boyle's Mica Flap is supposed to be useful in removing 
some of the foul air from the top of the room into the 
chimney (Fig. 38) ; but a better plan is to provide a 
separate foul air flue, as shown in Fig. 35. 








FIG. 39. Hinckes-Bird window ventilator. 

The Windows may have contrivances to allow the fresh 
ah- to enter in a certain direction ; for instance, if the 
bottom sash has placed under it a wooden guard about 
2 inches high and the lower sash is brought down on to 



300 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

this, air enters the room with an upward direction between 
the sashes. 

Many such contrivances are applicable rather to small 
rooms, such as teachers' rooms, with a certain amount of 
benefit, but the smaller the opening the greater must be the 
rate of flow, and a perceptible draught is felt if air is 
entering a room with a temperature 10 Fahr. below that of 
the room at the rate of more than 3 feet per second. 



CHAPTER IV 
WARMING OF SCHOOLS 

IT has been shown in the last chapter how impossible it 
is to provide efficient ventilation in a school by natural 
means. There is practically no satisfactory method of 
artificial ventilation which is not intimately connected with 
the particular method of warming employed. In some 
cases both functions are performed by the same mechanism, 
as happens, for example, when warmed fresh air is 
propelled into a room ; in other instances advantage is 
taken of the heating arrangements to produce the "head" 
necessary for ventilation, as occurs when an open fire is 
used. 

Until the subject of warming has been thoroughly 
examined, therefore, it will be convenient to postpone the 
consideration of artificial ventilation. 

Heat is distributed in three different ways : (1) by con- 
duction ; (2) by convection ; and (3) by radiation. 

Conduction. This is the method by which heat is 
transmitted through solid bodies. If one end of a copper 
rod be heated in the fire the other end will soon become 
hot. Copper is, therefore, said to be a good conductor of 
heat. If a glass rod, on the other hand, be so heated, the 
end which is in the fire may actually melt, yet the rod 2 or 3 
inches from the fused end will be scarcely warm. Glass is, 
therefore, said to be a bad conductor of heat. Conduction 
is, again, exemplified in the different sensations experienced 

301 



302 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

when the hand is alternately placed upon pieces of wood 
and metal, both of which are at the same temperature. 
The metal appears to be colder than the wood, because, 
being a good conductor, the metal abstracts heat from the 
hand and quickly passes it away from the surface in 
contact, whereas wood, being a poor conductor, does not 
readily transmit the heat abstracted from the hand away 
from the surface. In the warming of a room conduction 
plays a very minor part. 

Convection is thus explained by Clerk Maxwell : 
" When the application of heat to a fluid causes it to 
expand ... it is thereby rendered rarer than the neigh- 
bouring parts of the fluid ; and if the fluid is at the same 
time acted on by gravity, it tends to form an upward current 
of the heated fluid, which is, of course, accompanied by a 
current of the more remote parts of the fluid in the 
opposite direction. The fluid is thus made to circulate, 
fresh portions of fluid are brought into the neighbourhood 
of the source of heat, and these, when heated, travel, 
carrying their heat with them into other regions. Such 
currents caused by the application of heat, and carrying 
their heat with them, are called convection currents. They 
play a most important part in natural phenomena by 
causing a much more rapid diffusion of heat than would 
take place by conduction alone in the same medium if 
restrained from moving. The actual diffusion of heat from 
one part of the fluid to another takes place, of course, by 
conduction ; but on account of the motion of the fluid, the 
isothermal surfaces are so extended, and in some cases 
contorted, that their areas are greatly increased, while the 
distances between them are diminished, so that true 
conduction goes on much more rapidly than if the medium 
were at rest." 

Radiation. When a solid body, such as a piece of iron, 
is heated in a hot fire, it becomes white-hot and emits 



WARMING OF SCHOOLS 303 

luminous rays. When removed from the fire the mass of 
iron soon presents a dull red colour, and finally is invisible 
in the dark. Long after it has ceased to be luminous it 
continues to give out rays, which can be easily felt as heat 
by the hand, or registered on a thermometer. The heat, 
like the light, is conveyed from the hot iron to the cooler 
hand by radiation. Heat rays resemble light rays in many 
respects. Heat rays pass through many substances, just as 
light rays pass through glass. Such substances are said 
to be diathermanous. A substance which is absolutely 
diathermanous allows the rays to pass through it without 
itself becoming heated. Air is not strictly diathermanous, 
but the amount of heat taken up by the air is so small that 
for practical purposes we may say that the air remains 
unaffected. 

A schoolroom may be heated in three ways : (1) by 
means of a fire; (2) by means of hot pipes; and (3) by 
means of hot air. 

1. Heating by Means of a Fire. The usual method 
of heating small living-rooms in this country is by means 
of an open fire. The coal in burning becomes hotter than 
the room, and the heat, radiated from the hot coals, warms 
the furniture of the room. The heat acquired in this 
manner varies inversely as the square of the distance from 
the source : thus, if two pieces of furniture were placed 
3 feet and 6 feet respectively from the fire, the amount of 
heat received by the latter would be / ff , or ^ of that 
received by the former. As the furniture becomes warm, 
the molecules of air in contact with it are warmed and 
ascend, setting up convection currents. The whole of the 
products of combustion of the coal, together with much 
heated air, ascend the chimney and are lost to the room. 
It will thus be seen that the greater part of the heat 
produced by the combustion of the coal is lost; it is 
calculated that only about T \j is available for heating the 



304 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

room. Heating by an open fire is, therefore, extremely 
wasteful. 

It is quite impracticable to heat a large schoolroom by 
such a fire, because, in order to have any appreciable effect 
upon the temperature of the room, the fire must be so large 
that the children in its immediate neighbourhood are 
scorched, whilst the opposite side of the room remains 
almost unwarmed. An open fire adds no products of 
combustion to the room, all these disappearing up the 
chimney. It, however, increases the dust in the room. 

Stoves give more heat than open fires in relation to 
the fuel consumed. The closed stove is very popular 
abroad, but not in this country. The stove helps to set 
up convection currents and keep the air in movement. 
The danger of cast-iron stoves when overheated allow- 
ing carbon monoxide to pass in amounts which are 
insanitary has been referred to; in addition, any stove 
which presents a very hot surface to the air causes a 
feeling of dryness in the throat and lips. 

2. Heating by Means of Pipes. When pipes or 
heated air are used, the furnace which is the source of 
heat is not in the schoolroom, but generally in the 
basement ; such methods are included under the term 
central heating. 

The pipes may carry hot water or steam. The hot 
water may be under either high or low pressure. In 
a low-pressure hot water system, which, it must be in- 
sisted, is to be always recommended for school purposes, 
the water is heated in a boiler and thence circulates 
through the pipes. A comparatively large quantity of 
water is used, and the pipes are large, from 2 to 4 
inches in diameter. The result is that a considerable time 
elapses before the pipes become hot, and once hot they 
take a long time to cool, because of the large volume 
of water heated. With high-pressure steam or water, 



WARMING OF SCHOOLS 305 

smaller pipes a.re used, the heating can be more rapidly 
done, and equally the cooling is quicker. The room- 
heating is usually done by radiators, which, if any other 
system than low-pressure hot water is used, have to be 
enclosed, as their surfaces may be too hot to touch. These 
hot surfaces also produce the dry feeling in the air referred 
to in connection with stoves. This is said only to occur in 
air which has passed over surfaces heated above 160 Fahr. 
and to be due to the partial distillation of dust. It is not 
noticed with low-pressure hot water heating. Although 
vessels with water for evaporation are often used in con- 
nection with stoves or radiators, their effect appears to be 
psychical, as the amount of water evaporated is negligible. 

A method of heating recently introduced into some 
Derbyshire schools, where there are extensive arrange- 
ments for opening up the sides of the classrooms, is by hot 
pipes laid under a 2^-inch thick concrete floor, which is thus 
maintained at a temperature of 75 to 80 Fahr. 

The purpose of this added heating is to warm the walls 
of the building and the furniture, so that the skin surface 
of the children may not be chilled by excessive radiation 
to cold surroundings. At the same time heat has to be 
removed, largely as latent heat of evaporation, and also by 
the body warming the air in contact with the skin. The 
carriage of heat to the schoolrooms should therefore be 
kept separate from the air supply, and the air should be 
at a moderately low temperature. The danger of unventi- 
lated rooms to the health is that the air also gets heated by 
the stoves, radiators, or hot pipes, and thus, unless kept in 
constant movement, as by a fan, becomes physiologically 
impaired for heat removal, which is its function in venti- 
lation. 

3. Heating by Means of Hot Air. This method still 
exists, but from what has been said in the previous para- 
graph it will be seen that ventilation by heated air may be 

20 



306 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

physiologically compared to giving a thirsty man salt water 
to drink. Heating should only be done when the tem- 
perature of the outside air falls below 45 or 50 Fahr. it is 
then necessary to warm the air to about this temperature. 

Moistening Air. Where air is passed over radiators, 
or its temperature considerably raised before delivering it 
to the rooms, the relative humidity is lowered, so that it 
may have a drying effect. To obviate this it is often 
wetted as thoroughly as possible by damp screens before 
heating, or even after heating by jets or sprays of water ; 
but it is difficult to make very humid. If too damp, 
moisture will be deposited on the windows or walls, if 
these are cool ; on the other hand, the air may be so dry 
from overheating that cards or pictures hung on the 
walls may warp. 

It follows from the theory of gases that warm air 
will deposit dust carried by it on any colder surfaces 
with which it comes in contact. The surface of old 
ceilings often appears whiter where backed by wooden 
laths than the parts where there is no such non-con- 
ductor of heat, and which are therefore on the average 
slightly colder ; so, too, above steam pipes or radiators 
a sooty deposit is seen, or on ceilings above gas or 
electric globes, wherever a warm current of air impinges 
on a colder surface. For this reason, too, mechanically 
ventilated schools, with incomparably cleaner filtered air, 
appear dirtier, judged by the walls near inlets, than 
naturally ventilated schools without any provision for air 
cleansing ; the appearance of dirt being wholly due to 
the relative temperature difference of the walls and the 
incoming air, and quite independent of the relative clean- 
liness or dustiness of the air. 



CHAPTER V 

MECHANICAL VENTILATION 

SUFFICENT lighting and good ventilation are the most 
important requisites in a school. In actual practice, whilst 
many thousands of pounds may be spent in the erection 
and decoration of a school, a trifling and altogether in- 
adequate sum is devoted to its ventilation, if special 
provision is not altogether ignored. 

The cheapest efficient system is comparatively costly at 
first, and the best system will not give efficient results 
unless intelligent supervision is exercised. 

The great difficulty of getting sufficient general move- 
ment of air in rooms, without excessive local movement in 
the form of draughts, makes mechanical ventilation almost 
a necessity for health in schoolrooms on the basis of space 
allowed by the Board of Education Regulations, with the 
smaller classes of about forty now being adopted. 

Open Fireplaces. A moderate sized room in a private 
house well exemplifies the difficulties in comfortable ven- 
tilation. A good fire drawing a considerable amount of 
air up the chimney only effects local movement of cold 
air along the floor ; when the room becomes sufficiently 
warmed the air above the floor is heated, so that the room 
gets intolerably stuffy. The opening of a door or window 
is possibly followed by a cutting draught, but without such 
proceeding, the starting of a small electric fan in the room 
merely to stir up the air, at once removes the sense of 

307 



308 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

discomfort. The open fireplace then provides a small head 
of air which by convection causes a rapid flow up the 
chimney; but for a classroom with forty or fifty children 
this would be wholly insufficient. 

Various devices by which the air is heated by ventilating 
stoves or fireplaces are comparatively useless for general 
school purposes. 

An open fireplace in a small classroom or teacher's room 
may, nevertheless, be made an adjunct to ventilation by the 




FIG. 40. Galton's ventilating stove. 
a, Smoke flue ; l>, air flue ; c, air chamber. 

use of certain devices. One of the best of these devices is 
that of Galton, and depends upon the utilization of the heat 
of the products of combustion going up the chimney. A 
chamber is placed behind the chimney, communicating at 
its lower end with the open air, and at its upper end with 
the room, by an opening over the mantelpiece. When the 
fire is alight, the air in this chamber is heated, and, there- 
fore, rises into the room. Here it mingles with the fouled 
air ; so long as the fire is alight, fresh air will continue to 



MECHANICAL VENTILATION 309 

be delivered into the room, warm and above the breathing 
line. Moreover, as air is entering iii this manner, less 
enters under the door and windows, and there are therefore 
fewer cold draughts. In such ventilating fireplaces, the 
lower the point of entry of the warmed air, the more 
complete is the admixture with the air of the room. 

Used in this way, a ventilating stove acts as a means of 
setting up some circulation in the air of the room, and 
replaces the need for the small fan spoken of in a previous 
paragraph. 

When schoolrooms are considered, all systems which 
depend on natural air movements for their head of air are 
liable to failure either when the external temperature is 
high or when there is little wind. 

For a wholly dependable ventilation of schools, a head of 
air which does not fail must be always available. 

The head depending on heating alone is very costly, but 
on a small scale can be utilized, particularly if a consider- 
able height of chimney is available. This was the method 
adopted in the Houses of Parliament, a large fire being 
kept burning at the bottom of a chimney running up the 
Tower. 

Nowadays, in practice a fan supplies the head. Under 
average conditions of English weather a low-pressure open- 
bladed fan is generally used, but for large buildings the 
enclosed blower is probably the most economical. It is 
used in the enormous American schools, driven by a motor 
in "sound-proof" housing. 

Where a fan is used at the outlet, as in an air chamber in 
the roof, it is called an exhaust system. In this the choice 
of air supply cannot be regulated, nor can the air be con- 
trolled and treated to clear it from dust and dirt, so that the 
usual system is a plenum system, where a fan worked by a 
steam, petrol, gas, or electric motor drives air into the 
school. With the plenum system the air can be taken from 



310 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

a selected source under thorough control. A wide opening 
in the basement is generally used, with a few coils of heating 
pipes to temper the incoming air in winter and keep the 
screen through which it is next drawn from freezing. This 
screen, of large area to diminish resistance, may be made of 
jute cords, copper-wire gauze or a frame holding about 5 
inches thickness of coke in pieces about the size of potatoes. 
Jets of water trickling over it wash and moisten the air. 
Occasionally a screen is used in the form of a large rotating 
cylinder, the lower part of which dips in a trough of water. 
The air must be well moistened, as Fig. 44 shows how it 
becomes relatively drier on heating. If heating of the air 
supply was not practised, it is probable that with the climatic 
conditions of England no humidifying arrangements would 
be necessary. The air is driven by the fan into the venti- 
lating ducts. In nearly all existing schools it then passes 
over heating radiators before being delivered to the rooms, 
and as a rule there is no accessory heating of the rooms. 
It is through this attempt to combine air supply with warm- 
ing that these mechanically ventilated rooms fail from the 
physiological point of view, the air being deteriorated in its 
ventilating qualities by the heating. As a means of heating, 
this system is probably the most wasteful that exists, as the 
specific heat of air is so low that it has to be overheated to 
supply enough to warm the rooms, the greater part of the 
heat, however, being carried unused to the outer air. The 
use of air for carriage of heat is therefore always to be con- 
demned. The plenum system further requires that no other 
apertures, doors, or windows, except the outlet ducts should 
be maintained open, or parts of the building will become 
short-circuited. Doors and windows must be kept shut 
for efficient working of the air circulation. If the doors 
of one department, say the infant, are opened for a few 
minutes' recess, their area is generally so great that the 
ducts of the other departments, boys' and girls', are short- 



MECHANICAL VENTILATION 



311 



circuited, and do not get sufficient supply of air. This can 
be demonstrated by the sudden increase in carbonic acid 
or temperature in the atmosphere of these departments. 

The best method of ventilation is to combine the two 
systems as shown in Fig. 41, so that the pressure in the 
rooms is nearly that of the outer air ; doors and windows 




FIG. 41. Diagrammatic section of part of a school. 

Showing air entering in basement and being drawn through a coke 
screen, in front of which is a small radiator for tempering in severe 
weather. The air is then propelled by the fan into the main duct. 
Three room ducts, with small heating coils for severe weather, are 
shown going up the rooms. The extract shafts are shown dotted, and 
the extract fan in the roof chamber drawing air to the outlet. 

then may be freely opened. With this combined system, 
of fans to drive air in and fans also to extract air, there is 
control of the air supply, but such a system will lose all 
its advantages unless the warming of the rooms is effected 
by the use of direct radiators, only sufficient heat being 
imparted to the incoming air to prevent chilling by draughts. 



312 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



Meanwhile, in schools ventilated on the plenum system, 
sliding shutters should be provided to cover inlets in any 
rooms or halls likely to be unoccupied during school-hours 
so that they may be shut off and more air driven through 
the occupied rooms at that time. 

From the main inlet ducts in the basement, ducts 
pass up to each classroom. Inlets are placed on the 
walls about 8 or 9 feet up, and have a wire screen of 




FIG. 42. Showing in a combined "exhaust" and 
"plenum" system of ventilation the relative 
position of inlets and outlets of air giving purest 
air throughout a schoolroom. 

about 2-inch mesh, to keep out foreign bodies. The out- 
lets are placed nearly at the floor-level. In schools where 
gaslight is much used the heating effects may be greater 
than those of the children ; alternative outlets are therefore 
provided high up, which can be opened proportionately to 
the closing of the lower one to allow escape of the heated 
air from the gas burnt. 

The best positions of inlets and outlets were determined 
by smoke tests in an experimental room, illustrated in 



MECHANICAL VENTILATION 



313 



Fig. 42. The size of the ducts is of great importance ; 
they are generally much too small if left to the architect, 
who always seems striving for economy here, and no 
subsequent increase of engine-power is likely to compen- 
sate for niggardliness in this respect in the original plans. 
A cross-section at the narrowest part requires a minimum 
area of 20 square inches per head ; this is the least for 



20p.m. 



3 Cpjn. 



4-Opjn. 




7-0'ciotii. 



40p.m. 



FIG. 43. The steady increase of CO* except during play 
interval in naturally ventilated schools tested in quiet 
weather, September 1897. Highest reading 972 in 
naturally ventilated and 302 in mechanically ventilated 
rooms, the outer air being 100. 

satisfactory working, and it is to be remembered that the 
wall opening must be much larger, as a considerable portion 
of this opening gives dead spaces when tested by the 
anemometer. 

The advantage of mechanical ventilation over natural 
methods shows up astonishingly if measured by chemical 
means, or by the cleanliness from germs. Where, how- 
ever, the incoming air is heated to 70 Fahr. or more, the 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



dust deposited on the cooler wall surfaces at the inlets 
makes the school look dirty, and the rooms feel stuffy 
from failure of the warmed air to remove sufficient heat 
through the skin. 

The purity of the air shows up in diminished absence 
from illness among both teachers and scholars ; the 
mechanically ventilated schools in this respect being far 
the best if wide enough statistics are taken. 



r 



9am/0 It NOON I 2. 3 A 




-zot 



FIG. 44. The drying effect of heating the air and later of 
also moistening it with first half, then the whole, of the 
screen wet, during school-hours. 

Continuous line is temperature difference of air in ducts from 
outer air. The dotted line gives percentage of humidity below 
and above that of outer air. (Saturated air = 100.) 



Fig. 44 shows the effect of the warming and moistening 
of the air, from actual measurements taken on an average 
day in a large school with plenum ventilation. For 
simplicity the excess temperature in Fahrenheit degrees 
over the outer air is given, and also the percentage relative 
humidity over the percentage relative humidity of the 
outer air, saturation in each case being 100. The screen 
being dry up till 2 o'clock, the only effect is to raise the 



MECHANICAL VENTILATION 315 

temperature about 15 degrees and to dry the air, reducing 
the relative humidity about 30 per cent. When a half- 
supply of water is turned on the screen from 2 till 3 
o'clock, the temperature falls owing to the large amount 
of heat which disappears in evaporation, and the humidity 
increases ; when the full supply of water is used the 
temperature still falls and the humidity goes up till it is 
5 per cent, in excess of the outer air. 



CHAPTEE VI 
NATURAL LIGHTING 

THE lighting of schoolrooms is a matter second only to 
ventilation in importance. The present generation are 
beginning to feel the effects of increased, frequent, and 
long-continued use of the eyes. Overuse of the eyes is 
now almost habitual, and it is during the growing period 
that the effects of such overuse are especially serious. 
Lighting arrangements have largely followed architectural 
traditions till the last half-dozen years, when the intro- 
duction of easy methods of measuring light has made 
illumination a study in which almost any one who takes 
a little trouble may find interest. 

School lighting divides into natural lighting, derived from 
daylight, and artificial lighting by various kinds of lamps. 

In discussing the lighting of any object, the illumination 
or light falling on a surface must be clearly distinguished 
from the surface brightness, or light sent back from the 
surface, which is what the eye sees. 

With the same illumination a piece of white blotting- 
paper will have a surface brightness of 80 per cent, of the 
light falling on it ; a piece of dark brown paper will have 
20 per cent., whilst a piece of black velvet will have about 
0-5 per cent. To make the details of these different 
surfaces equally visible the illumination would have to 
be varied till their surface intensity was about equal in 
each case; which means that the velvet would require 

316 



NATURAL LIGHTING 317 

about 160 times and the brown paper about four times 
the illumination of the blotting-paper. 

Standards of Illumination. Candles were naturally 
the standard in which lighting was first measured when 
gas was introduced. A spermaceti candle, burning 120 
grains of wax hourly, was agreed on as a standard. The 
illumination received from such a candle at a foot distance 
was termed a foot-candle, and the brightness of an 
illuminant was expressed in candle-power. The actual 
standards are derived from this, and are either a flame 
of a certain size, of a pentane or amyl acetate lamp, 
burning under defined atmospheric conditions, or else 
standardized electric glow-lamps. 

The strength of a source of light is expressed in candle- 
power (I), and the illumination (E) received on a unit 
surface on which it falls perpendicularly, at the distance 

d is E =- -^ If however, the surface is inclined to the 
d 3 

direction of the light, or what is the same thing, the light 
is incident at an angle 6, this has to be corrected for, and 

then E = _ cos 6. This is spoken of as the cosine law. 
d 2 

If the surface only gives back a proportion (K) of the 
illumination, K being a constant amount depending on 
the surface, then the surface brightness (B) measured by 
a photometer, to be described below, is 

E = K E = K I cos 6. 

d 2 

Photometers. The measurement of illumination is 
done by apparatus whereby the light on a surface to be 
tested is judged by having another surface lighted by a 
measured illumination adjusted to equality with it. These 
photometers are of two kinds : (1) one giving quantitative 
measurements expressed in foot-candles, and needed for 



318 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



scientific investigations, or for measurements of artificial 
lighting : (2) relative photometers, giving measurements in 
relation to skylight, and chiefly used for rapid work with 
daylight. 

Any recent book on modern illuminants will give details 
of the many varieties of these instruments. 

A useful instrument for measuring illumination in school- 
rooms is the " lumeter," Fig. 45, which occupies little 
space and can be carried in a leather case, slung on the 
back in the same manner as a hand camera. A piece 
of matt white celluloid is placed at the point where it 




FIG. 45. Lumeter portable photometer for school use, giving 
surface brightness in foot-candles. 



is desired to measure the illumination, and is observed 
from a distance. The instrument contains a small electric 
lamp fed by a portable accumulator, which illuminates 
a small white screen pierced by a central aperture. The 
illumination of this screen is adjusted by means of a mov- 
able shutter, and the observer looks through the aperture 
at the celluloid test-card, and adjusts the shutter until 
the brightness of the two surfaces is equal. The illu- 
mination is then registered on a scale graduated up to 
two foot-candles. By means of small dark glasses inserted 
in the path of the rays from the surface observed, this 
reading can be magnified 10, 100, or 1,000 times, so that 



NATURAL LIGHTING 



319 



the instrument reads up to 2,000 foot-candles. The 
instrument is calibrated for use by comparison with a 
standard lamp in the laboratory. 

For relative photometry Thorner's light tester (Fig. 46) 
consists of an adjustable mirror and lens which throw 
an image of the sky on a white card in a little camera 
on a stand. An opening at the top allows this card to be 
seen, and also a round hole in it through which another 
test card on the stand of the instrument is visible. By 
placing stops over the lens the brightness of the sky 




FIG. 46. Thorner's light tester. 

Showing appearance when the place is relatively too 
dark, and below when relatively light, compared with sky 
brightness as seen in the image. 



image can be varied till the test card, as seen through 
the hole in the camera, looks as bright as the sky image. 
The lens stops j-, 2-, and ^, are supplied with the in- 
strument. If - has to be used to diminish the sky 
image below that of the test card, the place is too dark 
for schoolwork. A similar instrument with a graduated iris 
diaphragm can be used to compare any points in a room. 
Where sky brightness varies rapidly from minute to minute, 
some instrument like this, which compensates for the 
varying sky brightness, is necessary. 



320 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Other Methods. The first investigators had no handy 
instruments for their work and had to trust to the eye, 
which, as has already been seen, from its extreme power 
of adaptation is very unreliable ; still, the continued use 
of the eye is the real test of sufficient illumination. If 
diamond type at a test place can be easily read by a normal 
eye at half a metre distance the light is sufficient. Twenty 
years ago the writer used a card with square dots of 
1'4 mm. edge, and the same distance apart, to be seen 
sharply as square dots from 20 feet distance, if the light 
was sufficient for testing visual acuity; otherwise they 
looked like a line. The dots should be larger, 1-75 mm. 
side and interval, as in Fig. 47, to test the minimum light- 
ing permissible for a working place. 



FIG. 47. Square dots of 1-75 mm. side with the same intervals. 

These dots should be clearly defined to a normal eye at 20 feet, if the light it 
good enough for schoolwork. 

It was suggested by Cohn that a room would only 
be sufficiently lighted if the window area was not less 
than one-fifth the floor area, and he also pointed out 
that the effective window area was often seriously 
diminished by faulty construction or architectural em- 
bellishments. Javal, the French ophthalmologist, stipulated 
that from every desk some sky should be visible. Ulti- 
mately the value for average lighting of a certain area 
of sky was agreed upon. A square degree, that is, an 
area of one degree of angular opening vertically and 
horizontally, was used as the measure. But the light on 
a flat surface from a square degree vertically overhead 
would be greater than from a square degree near the 
horizon, so the reduced square degree was introduced. If 
any area is measured in square degrees w, and it is at an 



NATURAL LIGHTING 321 

average angular elevation above the horizon of a degrees, 
then it will give an amount of illumination equal to w sin a 
square degrees at the zenith ; this quantity is its reduced 
square degrees. It was finally agreed that fifty reduced 
square degrees was the smallest amount of sky visible 
from any desk which could be allowed. This corresponds 
to about one foot-candle in the dullest weather. 

Another way of estimating the amount of visible sky 
needed was to say that at least four degrees vertical must 
show at the top of the window, and that at any desk 
the angular height of the top of the window should be 
not less than twenty- seven degrees. 

These geometrical methods, however, neglect the re- 
flections, which may be considerable, in the room itself, 
from roof and walls, and which come into the reckoning 
with photometers. A factor has been sought to express 
this in the sill ratio, for any point, which is found by 
taking a simultaneous reading at the place to be tested 
and also on the window-sill outside. In a well planned 
school the ratio for the worst place should not be less 
than 1:100. 

Rough Calculation. Bough calculation can be based 
on the average sky brightness during school-hours being 
about 250 candles the square foot of window surface show- 
ing sky ; the lower value may be taken as a hundred, and 
if 25 per cent, allowance is made for obstruction from 
glass and dirt of the windows, this is reduced to 75 ; 
then 75 multiplied by the number of square feet of 
window showing sky from the particular place gives 
the candle-power available through the window, and this 
divided by the square of the number of feet distance 
from the window gives the foot-candles available at the 
place. The minimum illumination of any school place 
should never fall below two foot-candles. With daylight 
it usually greatly exceeds this, and where sunshine falls 

21 



322 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

may exceed 2,000, but actual sunshine has no business 
in a classroom. 

The lighting, as already seen in discussing the reduced 
square degrees, is greater from the top of a window than 
from equal areas below. Windows should therefore reach 
as high as possible, and every inch is of value. Conversely, 
footboards or other means should not be used to raise 
desks higher from the floor than necessary, as it is 
equivalent to reducing the height of the room. 

Window Area. The rule as to window area being one- 
fifth of the floor area has been modified by Englebracht, 
who adds an average correction for the reflections from 
roof and walls. Where / is the window area in square 
feet, F the floor area, and x the width of the room, his 

F x 2 
correction will be / = = . ^^. 

Direction of the Light. For the reasons already given 
high lighting is the most valuable. Owing to most children 
being right-handed it is necessary that light falls mostly 
from the left, to keep their handwork clear of shadows. 
Light in other directions causes shadows in awkward places. 

Summary. A School Lighting Committee of the 
Illuminating Engineering Society have summarized as 
follows : 

No place is fit for use in a schoolroom when diamond 
type cannot be read easily by a normal observer at a 
distance of half a metre (20 inches). 

Tbii ii diamond type 

The darkest desk in any schoolroom should receive an 
illumination equivalent to that derived directly from fifty 
reduced square degrees of visible sky. In these circum- 
stances the place should receive not less than 0'5 per 
cent, of the unrestricted illumination from the complete 
sky hemisphere. 



NATURAL LIGHTING 323 

The windows should be located in the wall to the left 
of the pupils, and the glass carried to the ceiling, and 
not interrupted by cornices, pillars, or decorations. 

No desk in a schoolroom should be further from the 
window wall than twice the height of the top of the 
glass above the desk surface. 

The ceiling should be white ; the wall opposite to the 
window and the wall behind the children lightly coloured 
from 30 inches above the desk level; the wall around 
or behind blackboards somewhat darker than the rest 
of the room. 

All furniture, desks, and surfaces in the lower part of 
the room should be finished in an unobtrusive colour, 
dark shades and black being avoided. 

Artificial Lighting. Artificial lighting is necessary on 
some occasions, however short school-hours may be, and 
in winter becomes necessary nearly the whole afternoon 
in the North ; indeed, there are European schools on which 
the sun does not rise for two months. Out of school, too, 
the student has to work at his tasks by this light, and 
increased use of schools for evening work makes artificial 
lighting both hygienically and economically important. 
The problems of illumination are simpler and more under 
control with artificial than with varying daylight. The 
illumination on the desks is generally much lower, although 
the minimum permissible is the same, two foot-candles. 

Sources of Light. Oil lamps may still be used in 
remote schools. The old Colza lamp of the past generation 
gave a steady, comfortable light, from a source of low 
intensity, and was preferable to bad gas-lighting, which 
was common. There is now practically only gas and 
electricity to consider. The naked batswing gas-jet is 
still seen flickering in some schools, condemning the 
inefficient administration which has not scrapped it 
long ago. Instead of this wasteful method, gas should 



324 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

be used to heat incandescent mantles. Where electricity 
is used it will be in the form of filament lamps; arc 
lamps may rarely be used, as in art rooms, but they 
need not have separate consideration. The distinguish- 
ing feature of modern sources of light is the high intrinsic 
brightness, that is, the high candle-power per square inch 
of illuminating surface. 

The following are given as approximations to the 
intrinsic brightness of various sources of light in candle- 
power per square inch : 

Average sky brightness ... ... ... ... ... 2'5 

Candle flame 2-5 

Petroleum lamp 5'0 

Flat gas flame 2-0-5-0 

Diffusing opal shades 02-1-0 

Incandescent gas, low pressure 10-30 

Incandescent gas, high pressure 50-300 

Electric lamp, carbon filament 400 

Electric lamp, metal wire ... ... ... ... 800 

Naked electric arc lamp, about 20,000 

Evidently modern sources like incandescent mantles or 
electric filaments run into hundreds of times the intrinsic 
brightness of the sources of other days. 

The average sky brightness of two and a half candles per 
square inch is about the highest which the eye can endure 
without feeling glare, and most writers agree that the 
image of any source of light greater than an intrinsic 
brightness of about 2-5 candles per square inch should not 
be allowed to fall directly on the eye. Shades or reflectors 
illuminated by primary sources of high intrinsic brilliancy 
are used as secondary sources. Thus, with an electric lamp 
lighting the inner side of an opal bowl, of many hundred 
times greater surface than the lamp filament, this bowl 
acting as a secondary source gives out light at not more 
than the 2*5 caudles per square inch affording brilliant 



NATURAL LIGHTING 325 

illumination, and yet it can be gazed at by the eye without 
discomfort. Reflectors are mainly used to direct and 
distribute light, but, like shades, they may also be used as 
transformers, so that the light from a primary small 
source of high intensity is changed to that from a 
secondary large source of low intensity, which the eye 
can tolerate. 

From the health point of view there is little to choose 
between incandescent gas lighting and electricity. Whilst, 
even with the enormous improvements of recent years, 
gas heats the air more and therefore deteriorates it for 
ventilation, it is perhaps dustier, and requires greater 
attention to keep up to its full performance ; it is possibly 
not so convenient, but probably cheaper for the light 
obtained than electricity. 

Systems of Lighting. The various modes of lighting 
are classified as direct, indirect, and semi-indirect. 

The direct system is where the light passes straight 
from the source to the working plane, including any 
passage through refracting or dispersing shades. It is the 
most common house or school system, furnishing strong 
shadow contrasts, and is useful for local lighting where 
fine detail has to be made out. It is often trying for the 
eyes, in its uneven distribution and tendency to glaring 
contrasts and reflections, which, however, are relieved by 
the use of opalescent shades. 

The indirect system has developed in recent years 
through the use of large electric arc lamps and high 
power incandescent "half-watt" lamps. Reflectors 
below the sources of light completely hide them from the 
eyes, throwing light upwards, which is reflected from the 
roof or from large specially designed reflecting surfaces. 
Similar methods are used in rooms with concealed cornice 
lighting, which can be suffused with a flood of soft light 
without the actual source being visible. With this method 



326 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

the light falling on the working plane is wholly reflected 
light, and from the large area of reflection is an evenly 
distributed light, soft from want of shadows and contrasts 
and abolishing glare. With the same illumination the 
uniform lighting causes the eye to be adapted for brighter 
conditions than with other systems, so that the room seems 
less bright, and the eye is not so sensitive. The very 
advantage of softness or absence of shadows makes details 
of texture more difficult to see, so that greater actual illu- 
mination is necessary on the working plane than with 
other systems, but for shadowless work like reading or 
writing, or in places like corridors, halls, or lecture theatres, 
it is a restful, agreeable mode of lighting. 

The half indirect or semi-indirect systems combine 
many of the advantages of both systems. Opalescent 
shades below the lamps are adjusted to pass a considerable 
percentage of light, and the ceiling or reflectors above 
are also used to further distribution by wide reflection. 
Opalescent shades should give an intrinsic brightness 
comparable to, but not much above, that of the roof, thus 
obtaining freedom from tendency to after images but yet 
enough of shadows to make details easily seen. Glare is 
also diminished, so that this method is suitable for most 
schoolrooms. 

Opal shades are best for school purposes. Glass bowls, 
cut or moulded in prismatic patterns, whilst diffusing light 
admirably, do not always prevent glare. If any images 
of the source of light are visible through them, although 
small, they are of a high intensity and may be decidedly 
glaring; cost, however, stands in the way for school use. 

The arrangement of the points of lighting is important. 
They should be hung so that the lighting falls from the 
left, as with natural light. The points must be kept out 
of the field of vision of a child looking at the blackboard, 
and this last should have a special lighting from a con- 



NATURAL LIGHTING 327 

siderable height and fairly close up to it, to avoid glaring 
reflexes. This source for the board should be completely 
screened from the class by an opaque reflector. Window 
blinds of a light colour to reflect light should be drawn 
at night, as all light passing out through the windows 
is lost. 



CHAPTEK VII 
SCHOOL FURNITURE 

ONE of the greatest difficulties with which the managers 
of a school have to contend is the provision of suitable 
furniture for the scholars. During a small portion of the 
school day the scholars may be standing or drilling, but 
usually are sitting at their desks. If all children of the 
same age were also of the same size, the selection of 
furniture would be easy ; even if the size of the child and 
his standard of intelligence went together the difficulties 
would be slight ; but under usual conditions, the difficulty 
can only be overcome by having a single desk for each 
scholar. 

Before the necessity for suitable desks was realized, 
children of varying ages and sizes were often seen seated 
at a long desk holding perhaps six or eight, with the 
result that they were forced to assume attitudes which 
were both ridiculous and fraught with calamitous conse- 
quences. 

This topic of seats and desks has accumulated an 
enormous literature, but the quest of the perfect seat 
or desk is as vain as the search for the philosopher's 
stone. 

The growing child, and especially so the younger it is, 
whose muscles cry out for exercise and who yet has to 
sit at a desk for hours daily, is in an environment which 

328 



SCHOOL FURNITURE 329 

aggravates tendencies in those who by weakness of con- 
stitution are disposed to myopia or spinal curvature. 
Muscular fatigue is the chief school element in both con- 
ditions, and the obvious remedy is to diminish or break up 
the continuous desk lessons into short periods, intermittent 
with more active work, standing at a table, or drawing at 
a blackboard. 

For the prevention of the bad school habit of near 
eye-work-distance, and for the prevention of maintained 
unsymmetrical attitudes in which mere weight tends to 
deformity, the object aimed at is to have the child sitting 
evenly when reading or writing. 

When upright, the sitter is balanced on the tubera ischii 
(seat bones), and the line of the centre of gravity falls 
between them. Balance is only retained by constant 
muscular action, chiefly of" the back muscles, which soon 
leads to strain and muscular fatigue. If a third point 
d'appui is found, increased stability comes with the added 
support, and the muscle strain is relieved. 

If the child sits a little back this relief can be given by 
a low back-rest ; if forward, the front edge of the seat 
under the thighs may serve, or the edge of the desk 
pressing on the chest, or the legs or arms may be used 
for support. 

The desk and seating problem therefore has to provide 
mainly for relieving fatigue in the writing position and 
in a listening position, when more relaxation is to be 
allowed for, and also to allow standing up in class. 

For the working position the feet should be flat on the 
floor, the legs below the knees vertical, and the knees bent 
at a right angle. This gives the first measurement ; the 
height of the top edge of the seat from the floor should 
be equal to the pupil's leg, in the position stated above 
and measured from the under surface of the thigh behind 
the knee to the sole. The next measurement is the width 



330 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



of the seat required, when sitting well back and upright, 
to leave the lower quarter or even third of the thigh free 
from pressure of the front edge. If the popliteal artery 
in this region is pressed upon, interference with the circula- 
tion of the leg may lead to numb, cold feet, " pins and 
needles," and possibly, in cold weather, chilblains. 

The position of the desk edge (distance) in reference to 
the seat edge is shown in Fig. 48 as either (a) in the 
same vertical plane (zero or null distance), or (6) over- 
hanging it by an inch or more (one inch minus distance), 
or (c) separated (positive distance). Minus distance is 
possibly best, but so long as it is not noticeably positive 
not much harm will be done ; the child will be constrained 



r> 




n / 


s > 




-p 

K 




FIG. 48. Three relative positions of seat and desk. 



to sit up in writing, and to have its eyes 10 or 12 inches 
off the work. 

The height of the desk edge must be found by trial. 
It is probably best just level with the lower tip of the 
sternal cartilage, so that the child sits comfortably with 
its arms on the desk without marked raising of the 
shoulders. Proportions between seat height and desk 
height are fallacious, as some children have long legs and 
others long bodies, although they may be the same height, 
so that difference between the height of the desk edge and 
the height of the seat is not a fixed ratio of the seat 
height. 

The width from the desk edge to the plane of the lower 




SCHOOL FURNITURE 



331 



back-rest should be about 2 to 2 inches greater than 
the child's antero-posterior diameter through the breast- 
bone. 

A lower back-rest is required for the writing position ; 
it should give support to the sacrum. A higher back-rest 
for the listener's position should give support a little below 
the shoulder-blades, and be inclined somewhat backwards. 
The back-rests should not be rigidly fixed, but work freely 
about an axis parallel to the desk edge, just behind the 
upper edge of the lower rest. With this arrangement there 
will be comfortable fitting; just as the nose clip of eye- 
glasses fits badly if the clip screw is tight, and comfortably 
if the screw is loose, so the back-rest will be satisfactory 
if afforded this play. 

The dimensions for elementary school furniture in 
Bradford, which the writer determined many years ago after 
standardizing the children, were as follows : 



Sizes. 



Group height of 

children . 
Height of desk 

edge above seats 
Height of seat 

from floor 

Size of seats 
Size of back rests 



1 
INFANTS. 

i 


STANDARDS. 


Babies. 
Ins. 


Infants. 


A. 
I and II. 


B. 

Ill and IV. 


V and VI. 


Ins. 


Ins. 


Ins. 


Ins. 


38 


42 


45 


50 


55 


6 


7| 


8 


8* 


9i 


9 11 
11 x 8 x 1 

8 x 5 x 1| 


124 


14 


16 
11x10x1^ 


11 x 9 x 1 


8 x 5$ 


x 1 



The stock sizes of desks commonest in Central Europe 
have a minus distance of 2 centimetres, and the other 
dimensions in centimetres are as follows : 



332 



SCHOOL HYGIENE 



Stock Numbers 


I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 


VI 


VII 


VIII 


Group Heights of 
Children . 


up to 
116 


116 
to 
124 


124 
to 
132 


132 
to 
141 


141 
to 
150 


150 
to 
160 


160 
to 
170 


over 
170 


Height of seat 
above footboard . 


30-2 


32-3 


34-7 


37-1 


39-8 


42-6 


45-6 


48-6 


Footboard above 
floor . 


15-0 


15-0 


15-0 


15-0 


15-0 


15-0 


15-0 


15-0 


Height of back desk 
edge above seat . 


19-5 


20-6 


21-9 


23-2 


24-6 


26-0 


27-6 


29-2 


Depth of seat 


22-5 


24-0 


25-5 


27-1 


28-7 


30-3 


32-0 


33-7 


Whole depth of 
seat and desk 


62-3 


63-8 


66-3 


68-9 


72-3 


74-9 


77-6 


80-3 



This is perhaps the most widely used of all desks, and 
yet it is said to tire the children. Its form is shown in 
Fig. 49. 

As children may grow about two or more inches in the 
year, the ideal provision would be an adjustable desk. 
Extensive American experience with adjustable desks 
shows that in elementary schools, where provided, they are 
scarcely utilized by the teachers, and an inquiry over a 
wide area found that 40 per cent, of the children were 
sitting at adjustable desks not suitable for their size. 
Further, it is on account of the tendency to crowd children 
together that the hygienist looks for a fool-proof seating, 
which will keep pupils separated instead of having three 
children crowded on the two seats of a dual desk, as so 
often happens. 

The aim of separation of each child on its seat is of 
the highest importance, so that the single seat is a real 
necessity. 

Isolation is needed to prevent dissemination of disease, 
not merely the acute infectious diseases, but grosser forms 



SCHOOL FURNITURE 



333 



of sores, impetigo, scabies, or lice, and to dilute the 
offensiveness of odours from decaying teeth, discharging 
ears, dirty clothes, and other kinds of uncleanliness due 
to want of washing. Isolation is also required to effect 
sufficient ventilation. The condition of fatigue, so wasteful 
of educational effort, is largely due to the insufficient 
elimination of heat and aqueous vapour ; this removal, as 
already explained, is a physiological necessity. There must 
be for health a definite free air space of some inches between 




FIG. 49. Profile of a dual seat and desk popular in Central 
Europe, of good dimensions above the footboard, wbich 
has the fault of being several inches above the floor. 



each child and its neighbour. This excludes all forms of 
dual desk as hygienically unsatisfactory. 

Width of Place. Beyond saving space, insufficient 
attention has been paid to the width of place allowed to 
each child ; it is also of importance in regard to isolation. 
Dual desks in London measure 40 inches long; with 
continuous desks and single seats (the Sheffield system) 
a place is 18 inches. Each child should be able to sit in 
its place with its hands clasped and arms extended along 



334 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

the desk without its elbows touching a neighbour. The 
Continental desks above give from 20 to 25 inches per 
place. 

Single desks are the rule in secondary schools and in 
America. Till recently they have actually been refused 
recognition in elementary schools by the Board of 
Education, so that the majority have dual desks. 

The dual desk crowds the children into contact, one 
child on the left, the other on the right, so that their 
positions are bound to be unsymmetrical. The children 
ought to be paired for each desk or the big boy crowds 
the small one. The likeliest chance of infection in a school 
is in the partners on a dual desk. It is, however, very 
convenient, as the children can stand out in their places, 
and they are also accessible for the teacher. Its great 
attractions to the builders and furnishers of schools are 
its compactness and the saving of room, which, however, 
are not always sanitary recommendations. 

Chairs for Infants. In the case of infant rooms small 
chairs are the handiest form of furniture. The writer 
experimented largely with these about twenty years ago, 
finding a plain back with side pieces preferable to the semi- 
circular form. Little short tables at which four or six can 
sit are very adaptable for small children. 

For evening work with adults, the small seats fixed in 
rooms for young children make the room useless for older 
pupils. Some forms of desks abroad have level foot- 
boards for the children about 5 or 6 inches from the floor ; 
these can be turned back when wanted to suit adults, so 
that they can reach to the floor. 

All seats and desks should have on them, when delivered 
at the school, a little enamelled plate or stencil stating the 
heights of the children who ought to use that particular 
stock number. 

In recent years the objections to seats and desks of the 



SCHOOL FURNITURE 335 

ordinary models have been well recognized in America. 
There, where schooling is more generously provided than 
in this country, the space available 17 to 21 square feet 
per head has led to employment of chairs with a swing 
table, adaptable to each child. An example of this furniture 
which seems to have much promise is the Moulthorp 
movable school chair. The pupil gets into the chair from 
the left side ; it has a back, and on the right side an arm, 
on the outer end of which a table can swing horizontally 
at an adjustable height over the child's knees. A deep 
drawer beneath the seat opens on the left side. 



CHAPTEK VIII 
THE CLASSEOOM 

THE classroom is the school unit, so that a standard 
classroom may be discussed. Educational aspects have 
fixed the size of the secondary school class as not exceeding 
30, whilst elementary schools are getting smaller classes 
and tend to about 40 children. 

Vision. Several of the factors which determine class- 
room dimensions have been separately examined, as 
lighting, ventilation, and warming ; they will now have to 
be considered as interacting factors, but before that it must 
be recalled that about one-tenth of the children have visual 
acuity so low that they cannot make out test letters of a 
couple of inches in height beyond 26 feet distance ; so that 
even with a good light this will be the limit for many for 
visible work on the blackboard ; for the teacher this will 
also about limit his observation of the faces of the 
children. 

Hearing. Again, the teacher's voice must be considered. 
Although under good conditions normal children hear the 
forced whisper at 80 feet, for ordinary class purposes, and 
making allowance for many children with slight defects of 
hearing, 25 to 26 feet is about the available limit for the 
teacher's voice, and it is to save this that teachers are fond 
of gathering the children closely round. 

For good visual and aural hygiene, then, the length of 
the room should not much exceed 26 feet. The width is 

336 



THE CLASSROOM 337 

determined by the lighting, for which windows must 
be carried as high as possible. The illumination will be 
sufficient across a room of width equal to twice the height 
of the top of the window above the desk surface. As with 
natural ventilation all space above about 10 or 11 feet is 
considered useless, and as in winter windows act as great 
coolers, they have to be as small as possible for the 
conservation of heat, so that the height of the room should 
be kept down to about 12 or 13 feet. With a window top 
of 12-5 feet, and desks of 27 inches height, there will be 
sufficient light in the room on desks up to 21 feet from the 
windows, so with a gangway the limit is reached about 22'5 
feet in width. It is expensive to make wide rooms, as it 
also means high rooms only for lighting, the increase in 
height being of no service as air space, unless mechanical 
ventilation is used. Limiting sizes for a classroom are 
therefore about 13 feet height, 22 feet width, and 26 feet in 
length. 

Desking. The exact dimensions will probably depend on 
the seats and desks used. The class is commonly treated 
as 40, who can be placed in 4 ranks of dual desks with 
5 desks in each. As already stated, dual desks ought to be 
rejected where they can be got rid of, separate desks being 
used. These could be arranged in 6 ranks of 7 desks for a 
class of 42. The width of a desk averages 2 feet and 
depth 2 feet 3 inches, and with an 18-inch gangway all 
round the walls, as there should be, and separate gangways 
between the ranks of 18 inches, with a 9-feet space in 
front of the class, there would be a classroom of 22'5 feet 
wide, 26 feet long, and 13 feet high. This is an area 
of 585 square feet, or just under 14 square feet per head, 
and a ventilating space of 140 cubic feet each. This is 
quite a modest demand. The Model Eegulations of the 
National Education Association of the U.S.A. say not less 
than 15 square feet and 180 cubic feet per head. 

22 



338 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

Ventilation. This is insufficient for natural ventilation. 
The cubic space must be potentially increased ; this can be 
done by making one side of the room open to the outer air. 
Some recent schools have been arranged with the lower part 
to open, and the upper parts of the windows for illumination 
sloped like studio windows, thus getting increased lighting 
cheaply. 

With these opening arrangements perflation is required, 
and this can be done where the classrooms are in detached 
wings by clerestory ventilating windows high up on the 
opposite side to the illuminating windows. As mentioned 
on p. 296, the heating where large masses of air are 
being moved in this way has to be on an extensive scale, 
but it is probably better in these open-air rooms to heat 
through the floors, so that the children's feet are kept warm. 
In some cases it is possible to get a ventilating window 
high up in the side wall behind the children. This window 
should be made to open upwards on the hopper principle, 
and its direct light should be shielded from the teacher by 
painting or obscuring the hopper so that no sky is visible 
through the window. As light is a desideratum, it might be 
reflected from the hopper on to the ceiling with advantage. 

This standard room of 22'5 by 26'0 by 12-5 feet, even 
if the whole height be included as available for ventilation, 
would need 8'5 complete changes of air hourly to be 
ventilated. If, however, the height available for natural 
ventilation be taken as 10 feet, then the space of 140 cubic 
feet per head would require 10-5 changes hourly to give 
each child 1,500 cubic feet of air, which is only half the 
amount deemed necessary by the British Association 
Committee on the subject. 

Such extensive air changes cannot be maintained with- 
out mechanical ventilation. Mechanical ventilation is a 
hygienic necessity for all classrooms with floor space under 
20 square feet per head. Educational and economical 



THE CLASSROOM 339 

considerations make this size of room unnecessary, 
although it is frequent in America, where, in addition, there 
is often further space as a cloakroom for each classroom 
behind the teacher's area. 

Blackboard. The blackboard should be facing the 
children and as nearly central as possible. The position of 
the blackboard to one side and partly turned towards the 
window, although it gets good light, still means twisting 
many of the children on their seats. Blackboards should 
not be fixed on the walls opposite the windows, unless they 
can be covered by light-diffusing blinds when not in use. 
To avoid glaring reflections the inclination of the black- 
board should be up and forwards, and it should have a dead 
black coating half a dozen times a term if much used. 
Greenish tinted boards have been used, but have no special 
advantage. Ground-glass, with a white background, or 
celluloid, which can be made non-inflammable, have been 
advocated, but black has advantages over white here. In 
America dark cement is commonly used to form a black- 
board surface on the wall opposite the windows, but very 
materially darkens the room. 

Lighting. The whole lighting of the pupils' work 
should be from left-hand windows. A window on the 
right-hand side of the room is objectionable in practice, 
from the confusion produced by the shadows, for instance, 
about the pen-point in writing, and to obviate this Dinet 
has suggested ground-glass. The reflections, however, from 
a light-coloured wall are an obvious advantage, as they 
are in themselves of a low intrinsic brightness, so that they 
do not cause glare and produce scarcely noticeable shadow. 

The lower parts of the room, on which most of the sky- 
light is incident, should be lightly coloured light neutral 
dove or grey or pale greenish tints, and not light-absorbing 
colours, as much of the light can again be reflected usefully 
from the roof or walls. 



340 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

All shiny or varnished surfaces, polish of metal or paint, 
are to be avoided on account of glare. 

It has been usual in classrooms built round a central hall 
to have the upper part of the partition glazed, on the idea 
that light was gained in this way. Measurements, however, 
show that it is lost to the classroom and that the loss is 
noteworthy. When the rooms are lighted artificially the 
loss is serious. These borrowed lights are scarcely ever 
required and should be avoided. 

Floors. The classroom floor is of interest as regards 
dust, cold feet, and wear by nailed boots. A jointless 
surface is desirable, although less necessary than in a 
hospital. Corticine has been found useful in cleanliness, 
noiselessness, warmth, and wear in some infant schools 
with stone floors. The floors of organic material and 
magnesium cement should not now crack as when first 
introduced, but they are cold, and wear slippery ; so too 
terazza, except perhaps for corridors or cloakrooms. Oiled 
pine flooring, made more noiseless by embedding in sand, 
is recommended ; although perhaps less durable, linoleum 
also conduces to silence. The ideal arrangement, however, 
seems to be a floor of cement composition through which 
heating can be done. The use of footboards has been 
condemned as tending to decrease the effective room height 
and window space. Stepped flooring has been used to 
raise the children, and although it has many advantages 
educationally, the disadvantage of the lighting is so great 
that it has been generally abandoned. Foot-rests are 
supposed to avoid cold feet, but with sufficient warming of 
the building, and not the air, this should not occur. The 
teacher sometimes has a platform of a few inches in height, 
whether also to preserve the feet from cold or as a remnant 
of the monkish days, which still determine so much routine 
of education, it is hard to say ; but it is unnecessary, and 
the raising of the eyes of the children above a horizontal 



THE CLASSROOM 341 

plane for long periods is to be avoided. This maintained 
raising of the eyes is, however, out of school, the most 
fruitful cause of cinema headaches. 

For infant rooms the warming has to be carefully 
watched. Plenty of space beyond the 9 square feet, for 
games, and marching, running, and jumping, is a necessity 
for the classes of teachers who have emancipated them- 
selves from the round of the Froebel mill. A most useful 
thing in the infant school is the provision of clothes-horses 
on wheels, which can easily be run out of the schoolroom 
and back to it when necessary. 

Sleeping accommodation for a quarter of the children at 
a time is to be looked forward to. Sand trays, and plenty 
of room for free-arm drawing, not in desks but standing 
at wall boards, are not only educational advantages but 
requisites for physical development. 

The Board of Education Regulations for classrooms have 
been materially improved in 1914, but in recognizing 10 
square feet per head as sufficient space for the elementary 
school child, they do not yet approach the requirements of 
hygiene. 



CHAPTER IX 
SCHOOL CLEANSING 

THE cleanliness of a school is important, not on account of 
the prevalence of tuberculosis, diphtheria, or other infections, 
as usually supposed, for the conveyance of any of these 
diseases in school dust is probably negligible, but for the 
maintenance of general health, and to reduce the frequency 
of common germs of low infectious power which are so 
common on the skin, in wounds and discharges of various 
kinds, sore eyelids, and corneal ulcers. It is to be remem- 
bered that any possible cleanliness will not save the child 
whose resistance is lowered from want of sufficient food and 
exercise. 

Dust. Dust may be irritating. Silica dust, for instance, 
is dangerous if exposure is frequent. The dust ffom chalk, 
from the soil, from hairs and shreds of clothing, and particles 
of epithelium may be a hundred times as great in school as 
in the outer air before the day is over. Dust on windows 
and lamps is out-of-pocket expense in increased lighting 
bills. 

The prevalence of dust depends on the neighbourhood of 
streets and traffic, which, apart from noise, may even prevent 
open windows owing to dustiness ; the playground surfaces, 
again, may require treating with dust-binding solutions, and 
the want of cleansing of the shoes on coming into school 
may be a large cause of dust. 

349 



SCHOOL CLEANSING 



343 



The usual method of examining dust in the air is by 
drawing a measured quantity of air for about twenty 
minutes through a small funnel tube containing some 
2-5 grammes of granulated sugar, so that, say, 5 cubic feet 
of air pass in the time. The sugar is then dissolved in 
10 c.c. of distilled water, and a small portion of this placed 
in a counting cell ; the particles of dust are counted with 
a two-thirds objective on the microscope. From a half to 
one million particles in a cubic foot of school air is compara- 
tively unimportant. 

Bacterioscopic methods are also used, either by testing the 
sugar solution or more readily by simply exposing culture 
plates for a definite time. The plates are then kept in 
an incubator and the number of colonies developing in a 
certain time are counted. The kind of result obtained is 
shown in the following note of observations in a room 
treated three months previously with dustless oil, and a 
control room treated by the ordinary soap and water wash- 
ing and regular dustings. 





NUMBERS OF COLONIES OP 

MlCBO-OBGANISMS. 


Average. 


Average some 
weeks later 
(Summer). 


Plates . 


123 


4 


5 


6 


Dustless oiled room 


6 


18 


9 


12 


5 


6 


9 


78 


Control room . 


580 


800 


600 


650 


900 


850 


700 


4,000 



The most common method is to sweep the floor daily 
with damp sawdust, moving and dusting the seats and desks 
each week, and every fortnight or so washing the floors with 
soap and water. 

Oiled Floors. The floor, having been washed with soap 
and soda and thoroughly dried, is oiled over during the 
holidays with a floor preparation thoroughly rubbed in with 



344 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

a rubber spreader. Different kinds of oils are used ; the 
one selected should be odourless, clear, non-inflammable, 
and free from acid. The oiled surface is spoken of as 
dust-binding. The drawbacks are that women teachers 
are apt at first to get their dresses soiled, and that for a 
time the floor may be slippery. The floors darken con- 
siderably and look dirty, although the considerable reduc- 
tion of dust in the air of the school remains unaltered 
for three months, when another coating of oil should be 
used, only about one-third the former quantity being now 
needed. The floor should be swept daily, no washing being 
required. 

Vacuum Gleaning. This method is being adopted in 
many recent schools, the schools being piped to a perma- 
nently installed apparatus in the basement. School-keepers 
object to this method, as it means picking up by hand 
the larger objects and pieces of paper. The cleansing, too, 
is rather time-consuming, but it removes instead of merely 
displacing dust. Several municipal inquiries have shown 
that school-cleansing methods in regard to cost and 
efficiency can be arranged as (1) vacuum, (2) oiling, (3) a 
long way behind other methods. 

The part of the dust in school due to use of chalk may be 
reduced by adopting dustless chalk. This is a misnomer, as 
it is not dustless, nor is it chalk, the body of the crayon being 
usually calcium sulphate. When weighted with various 
materials of non-friable nature a so-called dustless prepara- 
tion is obtained. The greater part of the detritus from this 
falls and can be collected on a ledge or groove at the bottom 
of the board. Teachers should not use common chalk if 
they have any tendency to dryness or huskiness of the 
throat, or a disposition to cracked skin or dry eczematous 
conditions of the hands. Very small dusters are the best, 
but erasers are also used, which help to keep down chalki- 
ness in the air. 



SCHOOL CLEANSING 345 

Dust on windows may diminish illumination as much as 
40 per cent. The writer once suggested in an infants' 
school report that " the frosted windows should be changed 
for clear glass," only to find that they were merely dusty. 
Shades and reflectors are also impaired in efficiency by dust, 
the cleansing, as in the case of windows, being generally too 
infrequent. It is important that these should be quite 
accessible, and that all parts of windows should open and be 
within reach. The footboards of desks, ledges, and panels 
are places which serve as retainers of dust in rooms ; panels 
and headings are generally unnecessary. 

Disinfection. Where dust is removed by a stationary 
vacuum apparatus installed in the school, disinfection need 
never be thought of. Except when a child has been sick it 
is a process rarely needed in a day-school. Apart from its 
moral sustaining effect, it is probably a waste of time and 
material. In the case of residential schools, or actual living 
rooms in which acute fevers like the zymotics have been 
treated, disinfection of clothing, curtains, and textile 
materials should be carried out by stoving at a central 
station. The walls and furniture should be sprayed over 
with formalin solution, and the floors scrubbed with soap 
and hot water; this will be sufficient disinfection for any 
school. Children are not required to live in aseptic surround- 
ings, and the attempted sterilization of books or educational 
material can scarcely be other than waste of time. Washing 
is an adequate cleansing for pencils if there is reason to sus- 
pect that they have been infected. It is difficult to keep the 
ordinary pus organisms alive in modelling clay or to recover 
the diphtheria bacillus after a few hours. Any practical 
results of treatment of books or papers require so much 
care that destruction is probably the best treatment for such 
infected things. 

Towels certainly serve to spread acute conjunctivitis ; in 
addition, scabies may possibly be spread by sand or clay, 



346 SCHOOL HYGIENE 

but measles infection may be neglected so far as disinfection 
is concerned. The diffusion of scarlatina or diphtheria except 
by personal contact is very rare, and no case is on record 
where school material has been demonstrated as the cause 
of spread. 



GLOSSARY OF A FEW MEDICAL 
TERMS 

MOST technical terms are explained in the text, but the meaning of a 
few medical words not there explained may be serviceable to those 
who meet them for the first time. 

Adenitis, inflammation of a gland, e.g. cervical adenitis in the lymph 

glands of the neck. 
Albuminuria, the symptom of disease associated with albumen in the 

urine. 
Angular gyrus, one of the convolutions of the brain cortex. The word- 

vision centre is usually located about this gyrus on the left side 

of the brain. 
Blepharitis is inflammation of the margins of the eyelids, frequently 

of a very chronic nature. 

Cataract, opacities in the eye affecting the lens or its capsule. 
C.G.S. Units, The system of units expressing scientific measurements 

in relation to the fundamental measures of centimetres, grammes 

and seconds. 

Choroiditis is inflammation of the choroid coat (see Retinitis). 
Diopters, see note on p. 147. 
Emphysema, a disease characterized by tendency to shortness of breath, 

from distension and loss of elasticity of the alveoli of the lungs. 
Exophthalmic goitre, a malady often presenting variable degrees of 

rapidity of pulse, protrusion of the eyeballs, fullness in front of the 

neck, tremors and highly emotional conditions. 
Haemophilia is characterized by liability to hemorrhages from trivial 

causes, the so-called " bleeders' " disease. 
Keratitis is inflammation in the cornea of the eye. Interstitial keratitis 

is deeply situated, and most often appears as a late manifestation 

of inherited disease. 

M 



348 GLOSSARY OF A FEW MEDICAL TERMS 

Meningitis is inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal 
cord, very serious and frequently fatal. 

Mydriatic means the power of producing a temporary paralytic dilata- 
tion of the pupillary opening. 

Myopes are shortsighted persons, and in children, when the defect 
exceeds about six diopters, they are called high myopes. 

Neurasthenia is a nervous disease showing excessive liability to 
irritation and rapid exhaustion. 

Nystagmus, regular tremulous or oscillatory movements of the eyes, 
usually from nervous disturbance. 

Ophthalmia neonatorum, inflammation of the surface of the eyes 
occurring in the first few days of life, resulting from septic 
infection at birth. It is now a notifiable disease. 

Periosteum, the surrounding membrane of a bone, aiding its nutrition. 

Phagocytes, the wandering scavenger cells of the body, resembling white 
blood corpuscles. They have the power of devouring or digesting 
dead or foreign bodies, germs and other materials. 

PMyctenulse are small papules of chronic nature which may form on 
the conjunctiva or cornea, generally in ill-nourished children, 
and often leave permanent opacities resulting in defect of vision. 

Retinitis is inflammation of the retina, resulting, when severe, in 
destruction of the nerve elements, with local loss of function. It 
generally also occurs under patches of choroiditis, which thus 
damage vision. Retinitis pigmentoaa is a progressive nervous 
degeneration with some excess of pigment formation and slowly 
increasing defect of vision. 

Stomatitis, inflammation of the mouth ; often fatal among poorly 
nourished young children. 

Sepsis, the foul conditions associated with growth of micro-organisms 
in or on the body. 

Vitamines are certain complex chemical substances existing in minute 
quantities in fresh animal or vegetable foods and necessary for 
healthy growth. 



INDEX 



Abelson, 82 

Accommodation, eye, 139, 148 

Adaptation test, 92 

, eye, 148, 160, 326 
Adenoids, 69 

Administrative Provisions Act, 259 
Age, 45, 50 
Air, fresh, 58 
Alcohol, 21, 139 
Alopecia, 224 

Alphabet, physiological, 37 
Ambidexterity, 39 
Amentia, 98 
Anatomy, nervous, 13 
Aprosexia, 71 
Association, 26 
Astigmatism, 173, 194 
Attention, 86 
Auditives, 34 
Auditory centre, 28, 35 
Automatic movements, 24 

Babbling, 29 

Babies, 57 

Back rests, 331 

Backward children, 91, 94, 116 

Baldwin, 50 

Bathing, 68, 75 

Baths, 60, 227 

Bed-wetting, 193 

Binet and Simon, 50, 97. 106 

Blackboard, 158, 161, 339 

Blepharitis, 71, 168 

Blight, 254 

Blind, 118 

and Deaf Act, 118 
Bowditch, 53 
Boy Scouts, 60 
Braille, 118 

Breathing exercises 72, 183 
Brightness, surface, 316 
Brilliant children, 91 
Buildings, 272 

Burgerstein, Professor L. , 81 
Burns, 234 

Carbonic acid, 283, 313 

Carbon monoxide, 229, 281 

Care Committee, 265 

Caries, 209 

Chairs, 334 

Chalk, dustless, 344 



Chalks, 161 
Charity, 201, 212 
Charlottenburg, 57, 192 
Chilblains, 215 
Children Act, 225 
Cinematograph, 159 
Classical training, 80 
Classroom, 336 
Cleanliness, 219 
Cleansing, 342 

,, stations, 225 
Cloakrooms, 216, 277, 340 
Clogs, 58, 189 
Closets, 276 
Closure, class, 250 
Clothing, 58, 215 
Co-education, 51 
Cohn, Professor H., 320 
Colds, 56, 74 
Concussion, 233 
Consciousness, 24 
Constipation, 22 
Consumption, 55, 137 
Convalescence, 254 
Convection, 291, 302 
Convergence, 154 
Cortex of brain, 23, 33 
Country holidays, 67 
Creches, 45 
Cretinism, 100 
Cripples, 115 
Crops of children, 52 
Crowley, Dr. K., 196, 203, 220 
" Crystal spring," 274 

Deaf and Blind Act, 118, 122 

Deafness, 71, 122 

Defective and Epileptic Act, 98, 

115 

Delicate children, 75, 185, 198 
Dementia, 104 
Dental care, 206 

,, clinic, 212 

Derbyshire schools, 64, 296, 305 
Desks, 328 
Diagnosis, free, 259 
Dining-rooms, 204 
Diphtheria, 238, 241, 243, 246 
Discipline, 131 
Disinfection, 221, 222, 224, 255, 

345 

Dislocations, 234 
Drainage, 275 



340 



350 



INDEX 



Drawing, 33, 65, 80 
Dress, 214 
Drinking water, 273 
Drowning, 231 
Ductless glands, 22 
Dukes, Dr. C. , 192 
Dull and backward, 91, 94 
Dust, 342, 345 

Echolalia, 29 
Education, dental, 212 
Educational method, 78, 80 
Epilepsy, 104, 115, 193 
Examinations, 51, 127, 132 
Eye distance, 175, 329 

,, injuries, 235 

,, movements, 154 

,, structure, 144 

,, treatment, 168 

Facial perception, 118 

Fainting, 230 

Fans, 285, 309 

Fatigue, 76, 80, 83, 196 

Favus, 224, 254 

Feeble-minded, 31, 89, 97, 99 

Fire dangers, 217, 273 

" First Aid " 230 

Fits, 231 

Flatfoot, 184, 189 

Floors, 340 

Fliigge, Professor, 287 

Food, 195, 201 

Footboards, 322, 340 

Footgear, 189, 218 

Fractures, 234 

Furniture, 328 

German measles, 242 

Geysers, 229 

Glare, 160 

Goddard, Dr. H. H., 92, 98, 106 

Grammar schools, 57, 75 

Griesbach, 82 

Habits, 25, 79 
Haemorrhage, 233 
Haldane, 282, 289 
Hall, Dr. Stanley, 131 
Hard of hearing, 125 
Headache, 71, 155, 174, 341 
Hearing tests, 124 
Heart disease, 61, 116, 186 
Heat accumulation, 77 



Heat loss, 214 
Heating systems, 304 
Heights, 46 

Hogarth, Dr. A. H., 96 
Holidays, 67, 127, 245 
Humidity, 284, 287, 306, 314 
Hunter, Dr. , 211 
Hydrocephalus, 99 
Hypermetropia, 170 
Hysteria, 87, 231 

Idioglossia, 36 
Idiots, 97 

Ill-nutrition, 196, 200 
Illuminating Engineering Society, 

322 

Illumination, 316 
Illustrations, 163 
Imbeciles, 97 
Imitation, 33, 36 
Immunity, 238 
Impetigo, 254 
Inattention, 77 
Infant education, 24, 42 
Infantile memory, 24, 143 

work, 156 
Infections, 236 
Inherited defects, 122 
Intellect, 29 
Intelligence scale, 106 
Invalids, 51, 115 
Itch, 254 

Jackson, Dr. Hughlings, 17 
James, William, 26 
Javal, Professor, 320 
Jessen, Professor, 212 
Jewish children, 49, 87, 133 
Journeys, 66 

Einesthetic sensations, 23, 34 
Klebs-Loffler bacillus, 243 

Lalling, 36 

Leeds, 49 

Left-handed, 28, 38 

Lenses, 146 

Lessons, duration, 128 

Letters, 35 

Light sources, 323 

,, tester, 319 
Lighting, 160 

,, , artificial, 322 

,, .classroom, 339 



INDEX 



351 



Lighting systems, 325 
Lip-reading, 34, 125 
Lisping, 36 
Lordosis, 187 
Lumeter, 318 
Lymph, 181 

,, circulation, 58 

,, removal, 76 
Lymphatic structures, 69 

Macula, 152 

Manual work, 130 

Meals, 58, 128 

Measles, 239, 241, 248 

Mechanical ventilation, 307, 314 

Medical inspection, 258, 260 

Mediocrity, 79 

Memory, 24, 25, 143 

Mental Deficiency Act, 97, 102, 

104 
Mental defect, 89 

,, ,, , spurious, 71, 87 

,, tests, 93 
Microcephalic, 99, 101 
Mirror writing, 34, 39 
" Misfits" socially, 96 
Mongolism, 100 
Montessori, 23, 44 
Moral defective, 97, 102 

,, imbecile, 97 
Moron, 98 

Mouth-breathers, 59, 71 
Mumps, 253 
Muscular exercise, 177 

,, sense, 24 
Myope schools, 120 
Myopia, 171 

Natural lighting, 316 

,, ventilation, 290 
Near eye-work, 150 
Needs in education, 58, 68 
Nerve cells, 41, 76 
" Nerve signs," 85 
Nervous levels, 19 
Neurasthenia, 128, 138 
Nightmares, 193 
Night terrors, 193 
Noise, 271, 273 
Noises in head, 124 
Notification of diseases, 252 
Nurse, 61, 73, 226, 262 
Nutrition (infant), 45, 196 
Nutritional index, 199 



Nutritional quotient, 198 

types, 199 
Nutritive exercises, 182, 184 

Observational centres, 96 

Oiled floors, 343 

Open-air schools, 22, 53, 64, 57, 

228 
Ophthalmia, 254, 274 

neonatorum, 101, 119 

Oral sepsis, 211 
Otitis, 72 

Outbreaks of infection, 246, 248 
Overpressure, 43, 51, 77, 79, 87, 

135 
Ozone, 282 

Paris, 50 
Pediculosis, 219 
Pepys, Mr., 219 
Perflation, 295 
Photometers, 317 
Phthisis (teachers), 137 
Physical education, 176 

,, measurements, 46 
Physiological variation, 35, 49, 99 
Playground classes, 60, 64 
Playgrounds, 67 
Plenum system, 309 
Precocity, 49, 52 
Protein, 203 
Psychological clinic, 96 
Puberty, 31, 87, 186 
Punishments, 131, 194 

Quarantine, 252 

Radiation of heat, 302 
Railway journeys, 88 
Ravenhill, Miss A., 192 
Rays, Roentgen, 224 
Reading mistakes, 33, 163 
Reflex movements, 16, 18 
Refraction, 170 
Reports, 68 
Repression, 24 
Reserve powers, 75, 180, 196 
Residential country schools, 63 
Respiration, 280 
Respiratory centre, 25 
,, disease, 56 
Rest, 60, 65, 68 

Rheumatism, 59, 61, 70, 132, 186, 
216 



352 



INDEX 



Rickets, 209 
Ringworm, 222, 254, 256 

Roentgen rays, 224 
Rotheln, 242 
Rubella, 242 

Scabies, 222, 254 

Scale of intelligence, 106 

Scarlet fever or scarlatina, 238, 240, 

242, 247 

School nurse, 226, 262 
Scoliosis, 187 
Script, 34 

Seasonal variation, 53, 68 
Seats, 328, 331, 334 
Segregation, 102 
Sewing, 43, 157 
Sheringham's valve, 299 
" Sill ratio," 321 
Singing, 185 
Site, 269 
Sitting, 329 
Sleep, 60, 191,341 
Smells, 271, 282 
Soap, 274 
Social conventions, 102 

,, relations, 87 
Space, 57, 64, 75, 341 
Spasm, eye, 164, 172 
Spectacles, 174 
Speech, 28, 122 
Spelling, 34 
Spinal cord, 13 

,, curvature, 186 
Spokes, S., 210 
" Square degree," 320 
Squint, 155 
Stammering, 36, 136 
Starvation, 78, 197 
Statistics, mass, 49, 197 
Sterilization, 102 
Sterilizers, 226 
Stiller 's sign, 199 
Strain (nerve), 43 
Strassburg, 212 
Suffocation, 231 
Suicide, 133 
Surface brightness, 316 
Syphilis, 98, 105, 119, 123, 126, 

209 

Tea-drinking, 22, 139, 194 
Teachers of blind, 118 
,, , open-air, 60 



Teacher's health, 134, 256 

Teeth, 206 

Temperature, 284, 287, 314 

Terman, 135, 192 

Theft, 87 

Thorner's light-tester, 319 

Throat, sore, 237, 247, 256, 259 

Thyroid, 22 

Tiredness, 77, 86 

Tobacco, 140 

Tobin's tube, 298 

Tonsils, 69 

Traffic, 271 

Treatment, 264 

Tuberculosis, 51, 74, 99, 115, 196 

,, schools, 62 

Types, printing, 162 

Vacation schools, 67 
Vaccines, 240 
Vacuum cleansing, 344 
Variation, physiological, 35, 49, 99 

,, , seasonal, 53, 68 
Ventilation, 278, 285, 338 
Vision, 141 
Visual acuity, 166 

,, centre, 28 

,, cortex, 23, 33 

,, tests, 165 
Visuals, 34 
Vitamines, 131, 203 
Voice, 139, 272 

Wallin, J. E. W., 211 
Wallis, C. E., 210 
Warming, 301 
Warner, Dr. F., 86 
Wash-basins, 274 
Wassermann test, 98, 105 
Wastes, 275 

Whooping-cough, 238, 240, 253 
Width of place, 333 
Wimmenaur, Dr., 198 
Window area, 321, 322 
Word-blindness, 34, 142 
Worry, 135, 194 
Wounds, 233 
Writing, 129, 158 
Wyllie, Professor J. , 37 

Yellow spot, 152, 166 
Zymotics, 237 



Printed in Great Britain by 

UN WIN BROTHERS, LIMITED, THE GKES1IAM J-BEBS, WOKING AND LONDON 



10 
a 
o 
to 



f-i (0 

oj fl 
0) 



- 

H >> 
CO 3 



UNIVERSITY OF 
LIBRARY 



Do not 
remove 
the card 
from this 
Pocket. 



TORONTO 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



